
Mc;:\kiV\9 some noise 
Kosovo Roundup 

Friday 
¦ 14 collegiate hands will open tonight's 
¦ Yugoslavia declared a 14-month attack on ethnic 

APRIL 9,
41 st ;rnnual Collegiare 
Albanians has ceased, and that 

ra,.z Festival. Scene • 16 
refugees may come home. News • 12 

1999 
THE 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 119 

ND sets '99-'00 tuition increase 
liy !AURA ROMPF low," Sejdinaj stated. "There are a can be spent in order lo preserve earn­NeW\ Wri1cr combination of' things, including the ing power. ondowmont, annual gift i,riving and efli­"Performance over several years 
llw Univnrsily of Notrn Damn will ci11nt operations that have helped to must be smoolh so not lo overspend or ilHTPasn umlPrgraduato tuilion by 5.4 kn<'p tuition down." underspend in a cortain year," Sejdinaj 1w1-rc11l for tlrn l999-2000 academic Tuition is lower than most schools. In said. y,iar. addition, Notre Dame has an approxi-Sejdinaj also pointed out that the 
"Whnn llin University built llrn money coming in from the hudg.•L for lhn coming year. we tuition increase will directly rt\alimd our c•xpPnsns w,ire really 
help to improve students' edu­
'WE 
HAVE SOUGHT TO

,-:rowing," said .John Snjdinaj. direc­cation. 
CUSHION THE
tor of linanc!! and buclgnting. "As "In overall spending money, inslrurtionul. sludnnl snrvicf"s and IMPACT OF TUITION tuition is the biggest piece of tlui rorn;truclion nx1wnses grow, funds pie, and thus as expenses 
1m1sl incr11asP and the majority of INCREASES WITH GREATER increase, so must tuition," he thnsn l'u11ds rnm1• from tuition." STIJDENT ANANCIAL ASSlS-said. "The money received from In a IPltPr to und(•rgraduatn par-TANCE.' the increase will go to many 
Pills, Uniwrsity prPsidnnt Fathnr places, but the bulk goes to 1:.dward Malloy wrote: "Wo lrnvP improving the academy and sought lo n1shio11 lhl' impact of' f,17JJE/l EDWAIW MALLOY providing a better education." 
tuition incrnases wilh grnaler slu-Parents' reactions to the
NUTRR DNvfE l'flESmENT 
chmt linancial assistancP. Indeed. tuition increase vary. itH'!'PasPs in U11ivPrsity-adminis­"I trust Father Malloy and lhe t,•n~d scholarship aicl in l'llcent years mat11 $1.8 billion endowment. trustees to charge the amount that is lmv11 IH•Pn for grnal,\r lhan the increas-"Evnn though the endowment is appropriate, " said Walter Smithe, 1•s ill studnnl msts." large them are several reasons why father of a freshman. "I know that run­
Mallov noLPd that Nolrn Danie's tuition still must increase," Sejdinaj ning an institution like Notre Dame is luition s·w, rnmains flltJ('h IOWI\I' than said. "A lot of the money in the endow­extremely expensive and I am sure that ollwr ro111parabl1) privatii institutions. rrnml is rnstrictnd by the donor to go to a thoughtful process was used to deter­
()11 tlw samP now, S1,iclirmj explailwd spc1cific nndnavors, and only a portion mine what tho tuition would be. I trust Noln! Ilanw 's alJilily to kPDp tuition oflhe monny can be used." they are charging the correct amount." foes down. St>jdinaj continued to explain that Not all parents agrne, however. 
"Noln! Danw started wilh a low like almost all institutions, Notre Dame 
see TUITION I page 4
tuition and has bnnn abln lo kenµ il uses a formula based on how much 
WWW. ND.EDU/-OBSERVER 


pus long­
1Ui 

distance plan may expand 
By MATTHEW SMITH News Writer 
Students may soon have alternate campus long-distance opportunities to weigh against their Cincinnati Bell Long Distanco option, according to Steve Ellis, Not.rn Dame telecom­munications manager. 
The telecommunications department is looking into greater calling card availability, particularly through the Hammes Notrn Dame bookstore. 
"We're actively working on it," Ellis said. "No one from administration is stopping the Bookstore from going out and getting [cheap­er calling cards] to sell at their store." 
Since 1985, Cl3LD has enjoyed a virtual long-distance monopoly under that University's bidding policy and telephone-use rules. 
"By law we can only block you from long­distance plans where you have to dial a 'onn' before you enter your call's area code," Ellis 
see PHONES / page 4 





REINVENTING AN OLD-TIME FAVORITE. NOTRE DAME STUDENTS ARE ... 


Swinging Into Action 
By LAURA PETELLE to, and you can't swing paign brought it back to tho although thny don't have Assistant Managing Editor dance if you're unhappy," airwaves. to," said Davis. ''I'd like to said Barlin. "The music ... is Bands such as Cherry see morn people come lo
This is not your a refreshing change. It has Poppin' Daddies, Big Bad meflt other people." g r_a n d m o t h o r ' s a good beat." Voodoo Daddy and the Barlin got involved with swmg. Scott Davis, a freshman Squirrel Nut Zippers began swing through ballroom 

Theso aron't the big and next year's swing club playing a looser, more ska­dance and by dancing in bands of the '40s. These president, agreed. infiuenced vorsion of swing swing clubs in Milwauknn, aren'l lhe same moves. The "It's just a fun dance. H's with strong beats. quick Wis. music isn't as technical. got tu do with the music. tempos and fun melodies. Davis, on thn otlrnr hand, 
But the idea is tho same first of all; the music just The new swing dancing is was more rnluctant at first. -energetic men and makes you want to dance," more of a hodgepodge than "I started back in women jumping and jiving he said. "People just like to it was in the '40s, but the California, back home," ho the night away. dance. It's fun." two most popular forms of' said. "My frionds madn mn 
At Nolrn Dame. the night The swing dance craze swing dancing remain East go." Gradually, ho said, hn is Wednesday and the has been building for sever­Coast style and the Lindy got into thn swing scene. jump<'rs and jivers belong al years. Swing music began Hop, named for Charles "It was thn music and tlrn lo the new swing club, a a revival when CDs first Lindberg's famous "hop" dance itself," he said. "It's a µ;roup that was started this came on tho market and across the Atlantic. lot of l'un; I startncl mooting year by seniors Greg Barlin record labels desperate to But why the popularity at a wholo bunch or p,ioplo." and lhialhm· Dnnsrnore who put discs on shelves raided Notrn Dame'? In a school Currnntly, thn club ofl'nrs fell that l\otrc Dame lacked their archives. Old swing where "gender relations" -a beginning lesson throe a certain swing culture. albums that had for years or lack thereof -is a legiti­weeks in a row, then thron 
"Thero \.vas no place to brwn unavailabk wont into mat() seminar topic, swing consecutive wonks of intOl'­swing around hore,'' said wide release. provides welcome co-nd nrnd iatn lessons. Through Burlin. Hollywood caught on as contact. this program, th1\ lossons 
Still. Bartin wanted to well. The movies "Swing "I think the single-sex increase in difficulty and swing. Kids" of 1993 and dorms can make it a strug­couples don't havo to altond 
lie and Densmore, who "Swingers'' of 1998 brought g 1 e to havf" dual-sex every wPek. began working together in swing dancing into popular events," said Harlin. Every fourth wcnk the the Ballroom Dance Club, consciousness. "Something like swing swing club hosts a dance in attempted to fill the swing Advertising also cashed in forces people to interact -Stepan Cnntor, which can void. The pair organized a on tho swing craze. A Gap you can't swing dance by act bolh as a calch-up for group of eighl student ad featuring swing dancers yourself. It's a healthy those who didn't quito get instructors to lead 15 to 35 twirling in Gap Khakis thing. It's something you the steps and as a chancn to dancers euch Wednesday in received such a popular can do with a partner. It show off. room 401 of the Rockne audience response that has a nice social aspoct." Davis would like to Memorial. after Gap pulled it off the "For the most part, peo­

"The music is fun to listen air. a letter-writing cam-ple come as couples, see SWlNG / page 6 
The Observer • INSIDE Friday, April 9, 1999


utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Police close riot-tip form Web site because of tampering 
turned in via the Web site. As of

EAST LANSING, Mich. 
I I 

Wednesday morning, the site had received more than 40,000 hits, he said. 
Police arc investigating whether names of those who have turned in rioters have been released, East Lansing police Capt. Louis Muhn said. 
"It is against the law to harass any­one who is or has cooperated with a criminal investigation," he said. "We will be searching this week to find those responsible for getting into the files and distributing them." 
Severance said if the file were left unprotected, it wouldn't take much to break in and look at data. ; 
"All you need is common sense and a little experil'nce," he said. · '.'vluhn said based on video footage and additional photographs placed on the site. there could be a lot more people charged with inciting to riot. 

The tip form used on the Web site to iclentily participants in the March 27-28 riot was closed Tuesday evening after police discovered it had been tampered with. 
East Lansing police have nabbed at least six suspects with the aid of tips from the site and an e-mail address. 

leaving their own names. always aware: of security issues," 
"The smaller siLes are the ones not 
Rod Taylor, East Lansing informa­tion systems manager, said the first
said Charles Severance, director of MSU's Division of Engineering anonymous e-mail was discovered at 
Computing Services. "It's often a sim­
4:55 p.m. Tm,sday. By 5:15 p.m., workers had resolved the problem by
ple oversight." A number of MSU stud1>;nts 
removing the form from Lhe site, received anonymous e-mail messages 
Tavlor said. ''If anyone else hacks into the formthis week listing instructions on how part, we have placed a strong warn­to read information submitted by vis­itors to the site, police said. The site 
ing that tells the person that it is allows visitors to fill out a form iden­
against the law to view a confidential tifying people in photos taken during 
police site," he said. Taylor said 90 to 150 tips had beenthe riot. V\sitors had the option of 
• Vr..ii: H~,;\Jt:n·1·rv
..• i-'.l.._ I..H~H ,.. -tS ' 
_students trade cover pages for free beer 
NEW HAVEN, Conn. 
Cold beer and effervescent seniors poured into Rudy's Bar Wednesday night to celebrate the completion of their senior essays. According to the 60-year-old tradition, all seniors can trade the cover page of their essay for one free beer on the house. The pages get pinned up on twine stretching across the bar, and the senior class bids adieu to their bright college years. "We do this as a token of our appreciation," said Rudy's Bartender John Flick, "These kids have been here for four years, and they're coming to blow off some steam." Cover pages hanging from the ceil­ing tackled topics ranging from: "Where's my Mommy: The role of motherhood in Disney Films," to "The History of Twin Studies Research on Sexual Orientation" to "Dynamics of leukocyte infiltration roles of serum auto antibody and endothelial CD40 expression in mediating leukocyte, infiltration in auto immune-provomier." 
¦ TEXAS A&M IJNi'JERS!Tlf Cigar smoking popular among students 
COLLEGE STATION, Texas 
From lounge lizards in the '70s to Monica Lewinsky in the '90s, enjoying a finB cigar has become more popular and more troublesome throughout the years. The ins and outs of cigar smoking may be more than a smoker has bargained for. For a novice smoker, discerning the quality of a cigar may be difficult. Vanessa Hildebrand, co-owner of Little Havana Cigar Company, said the area in which tobacco leaves are grown affects the 11avor and quality of the cigar. Most tobacco leaves are grown in South American countries, such as Nicaragua, Honduras and Cuba. "Basically, tobacco leaves are grown and fermented like line wine," Hildebrand said. "The quality of a cigar is based upon the environment which it is grown, what the weather is like." A premium cigar consists of filler leaves, a binder and a wrapper. The filler leaves can be either intact or in pieces, and are chosen for the aroma. 

¦ Dmu-Uru1vrnsrrv 
Court names hospital in wrongful death 
DURHAM. N.C. 

Duke University Health System is named in a wrongful death suit filed Tuesday in Durham County Superior Court. The lawsuit alleges that the Health System, Dr. James Short and Person County Memorial Hospital all acted below the appropriate standard of care in their treatment of Austin Damien Long, a one-day-old baby who died at Duke Hospital April 11, 1997. According to the suit, the Health System's Life Flight helicopter took too long to arrive at PCMH and transport Long to Duke for further treatment. The suit also claims that before the helicopter flight, Short and other care-givers at PCMH in B.oxboro made an incorrect diagnosis and were too slow to administer treatment. The Health System currently man­ages PCMH, although it did not in April 1997. The suit was filed just days before the two-year statute of limitations on wrongful death cases expired. 
¦ fu:imt.H'\ SrAn Utm,1rns1n Students protest against professor 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. 

On Tuesday evening, student government leaders spon­sored a town hall meeting for university administrators and interested students to discuss Florida State University. professor Glayde Whitney's backing of David Duke. "As a scientist who specializes in the lield of behavioral genetics, I must tell you that I have gone over David Duke's consid­erable data on genetics and race and find it in line with the latest scientific discoveries and knowledge in this area. His grasp of this area of research is quite remarkable for hav­ing a degree in history rather than a doctratn in the biolog­ical disciplines," Whintey said in a foreword Im penned for Duke's new book, "My Awakening." Alluding to Thales belief in searching ror knowledge through naturalistic observation, which involves describing events as they exist in the real world, Whitney compared Duke to past thinkers such as Voltaire, Martin Luther and Galileo. 
¦ NATIONAL WEATHER 

5 Day South Bend Forecast A.ccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperature~ 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Friday, Apr. 9. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
H L 
Friday: ~ 55i ~ij Saturday ~···.50•······ ;44· 
Sunday ~ 59 45l 
FRONTS:


Monday ~.. 59 40 
.......... ........... 

ID 1999 Accuwealher, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY Prassure· 

f's,.
Tues~ay /-.~> 63· 40 ')•-r{"' High Low Showers Rain T•storms Flurries Snow Ice Sunny 
® © 

i ...>·.,\J""'' ...,,. 

Via A:;sociflffld Press 




9.~,~,q~Q ~ ~ u 
Showe,s T•starms Rain Flurri9s Snaw Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloody Via AssociatedPrn• GraptiicsNet 
Atlanta 82 65 Denver 57 36 New Orleans 82 70 Austin 90 68 Dover 58 54 Sacramento 59 37 Baltimore 63 57 Honolulu B2 71 San Antonio BS 69 Boston 54 46 Louisville 73 62 Seattle 49 36 Chicago 56 51 Miami 85 71 York 54 52 

rriday, April 9, 1999 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
By l\1AUIWEN SM!Tllli Nows Writtir 
Seniors J.P. Cooney, Scott Ct11l(m and Fli,mh<1lh Krick am making vuluntcier opportunilins morn accnssil.ilo with llrnir growing Teamwork f'nr 

*BrandNeW 

Main-McKinley 
SeIC-Storage
707 E. McKinley Ave. Mishawka, IN 46545 

Conveniently Located near 
Nc,tre Dame 
8i 


Saint Mary.,& 


Excellent security! 
-video survellience -24 hr. access to your tudt 
Heated & air-conditioned units: great :for storing contputers & electronics! 

Limited Time 

6.9%APROn balance transfers 
Transfer those high-halance credit cards to your Notre Dame Federal Credit Union VISA or MasterCard and save. 
c(A NOTRE DAME 
www.ndfcu.org 
.,.FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 

(219) 239-6611 or (800) .522-6611 For Pearle. Not For Profit. 
•Thi, ,pee-ml nllc applies for the first 6 monlh> on balance transfers only. Ruic will thcll revert huck l(l 14.'l2%. 11 docs not include existing balnnces on any Notre Dame F~dcml Credit Union MnslcrCurd or VISA. l'romol1011 valid January K, through March 3 I. 1999. ln<lepl!ndcm of1h1: Univi:rsity 
the need for a reading program volunteers," he said. when they learned that South "I think it is a great pro­Hend public housing students gram" said current volunteer are among the lowest scorers Megan Tierney. "We manag11d on the I-STEP tests, which pri­to get a lot done in the commu­marily focus on reading. nity." 
"The r.hildren are in desper­The application process, now ate neod of quality aft1)r-school closed, looks f'or volunte,irs programming from well-trained "that are committnd, optimh,tic, personnel," Cooney said. l1exibh-1, cniativo, realistic and 
ult sets up a curriculum and empathetic," said Cooney. goals," said Freshman co-founder M a r y and businoss Krhovsky director 'IWANT THE PROGRAM TO recently Cullen. "The applied for
EMPOWER CHILDREN TO 
program is next fall's 35 
very focused MAKE DIFFERENCES IN THEIR 
availaple 

and very goal-OWN LIVES.' oriented." 
Launched in cooperation with the South FOUNDER, Bend Housing Authority, the 
program invites chil­dren who live in public housing to meet twice a week with tutors from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. The tutors work with individual or pairs of students in grades three through six on Tuesdays and Thursdays. 
Funded by a variety of private sources, the program operates on $3,200 per semester. 
"We are financially supported by local businesses, friends, benefactors, our families and Campus Ministry helps us out a little bit, too -we scraped it together," Cullen said. 
Cullen considers the program beneficial to both children and tutors. 
"It has changed my life, and it has a profound effect on the 

Cross College. 

Located across the street from Notre Dame, Holy Cross is a quality two-year liberal arts college offering small classes, a residential life program, personal attention to student needs and a caring, accessible faculty. It is a place where people take pride in knowing you by your first name.
*HOLY Office of Admissions 1\0. Box 308 • Notre D,imc, IN 46556-0308

CROSS 

(219)239-8400 • fax (219)233-7427COLLEGE E-mail: vdukc<'!1hcc-nd.edu Right for you. Right from the start. Web site: http://www.hcc-nd.edu 
Please tell me a/lout Holy Cross College. 

Name ______________________ 
Address______________________ 
City_____________ State___ ZIP____ 
Phone __________ 
I 

High School ____________ Year of Graduation __ 1 Observer 4/99 1I 
, r •
t
tu ormg posi­
tions. 
"As a fresh-
J.P. CooNRY man, I havll THI\MWORK FOR concnntraWcl TOMORIWW mostly on getting adjusted, but recently I have begun to miss the sense of' purpose and satisfaction that comes from helping the under privileged," 
Krhovsky said. 
"Teamwork for Tomorrow is a great opportunity to get involved and makn a differ­ence," said Molly Matune, another freshman applicant. "Amidst the classes and the homework, it is a convenient way to oITer time and service," 
Although this is Cooney's final year at Notre Dame, he still has hopes for Teamwork for Tomorrow. 1 
"I want it to continue exactly the way it is, but better," he said. "I want the program to empower children to make dif­ferences in their own lives." 

Tomorrow program, now in its sncond semester. 
Startl'CI with how~s of' bright­ening the futures of ltical chil­dren, th<1 program focustis on liloracy, athletic developnwnt, health and nutrition, sports­manship and tnamwork and mentoring. 
rounder Coorn~y modeled the program from one he heard about in lecture. 
"I first heard about it at an mlur.ation seminar held through the CSC," Cooney said. 
Coonoy and Cullen observed 






Teamwork for Tomorrow strives to empower children 

page 4 The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS 
utes. "What do you do if you're in

Phones 
the middle of your conversation and the card runs out of min­
continued from page 1 
utes?" asked Tim Shindeldecker, vice president of
said. Corporate Development for
Students who try to enroll in 
CBLD. "Plus, with CBU), youlong dislanre programs that require a caller to dial a num­
don't have to pay up front. You ber orw before entering an area or your parnnts can be billed code. such as those offered by AT&T or Sprint arc unable to access the programs from their dorm rooms. The University 
'IN OUR CONTRACT WITH 
blor,ks calling programs that 
CINNCINATI SELL LONG
bill tlrn owner of the phonr.. Undnr thnsn plans, Notre Oame DISTANCE, WE REQUIRE would be sent thP bill for all 
THAT [ OUR RATESl BE A CER­
l1rng-distancp calls made on campus. TAIN PERCENTAGE BELOW Ellis acknowledged that this 
DIRECT DIAL RATES OF THE 
allows the Uni.versitv to block nearly evnry long:distance BIG COMPANIES.' plan. 
''lf we l('l you use most of 
STFVF, ELus
thost\ plans, the University wilt end up getting billed," he said. MANAGbR, Norm, DAME 
At prnsent, any attempt to T5LUX:0MMl'N!CA 110NS use dial-out plans offored by /\T&T. MCI or olhPr long-dis­
lator."
tance companies from dorm room telephones arc automati­Unlike college students that cally blockPd. deal with /\T&T. CBLD users 
Some of lhese cards offer 10 have neither options of different cents-per-minute rates any­plans nor discounted calls. time, in contrast to CBLD.'s AT&T offers its campus users complex calling schedule. On a choice between two plans. that plan. daytime long-dis­Members can either pay 15 tance calls cost 26 cents per cents per minute all the time 
minutti. To get down to 12 wiLh no basic foe or 10 cenl-; per cents per minute with CBLD. minute all the tinrn, with a $4.95 per-month fee.
you have to call after 11 p.m. 
Still, CBIJ) officials sav that CBLD's rates are based loosely their monthly billing pian is on AT&T's, said Shindeldecker. easier on the consumer than "We follow the industry stan­
prepaid calling cards that allow dard, AT&T, and adjust our only a certain number of min-prices accordingly,» he said. "We 
are getting the best possible education for the money.
Tuition 
"We continue to deliver quali­ty at a lower price," he said. "At
continued from page 1 
a time when our student body "I do not feel the increase is is at an all-time high in scholas­appropriate," said Thomas tic credentials, when our !levers. father of a junior. "I teacher-scholars are coming feel tuition is already too high. from the graduate schools and 
Over that past few years I've faculties of the best universities 
noticed that miscellaneous fees in the world, when our physical have been increasing also. I facilities provide an outstanding never see an explanation for learning environment, we 
this either, and I just wonder remain very competitive." where exactly my money is Notre Dame has lower total going." cost than 18 of the universities 
Although some parents are ranked in the L.S. News and upset, Malloy tried to explain World Report top 20, and is why Notre Dame is so expen­ranked 81st out of 100 in total 
sive and the reasons students student charges for this group. 




STU!1ENT WANTE!1 
Work approx. 1o hrs. a week 
. Must have knowledge of D Macs & related Mac Programs.-..,,__,..,.,-J


'-,-~...-,-" 

Prefer Sophomores 
Please apply in person by April 16, 1999 in the Reilly Centert 346 O'Shag 

LearQ JJ.,Ne,l£.,,L<tnguage 
...,_.J' ·; .,.., :,:. < 
Study 
The langu}!gEf and mosr po· .,., literature, faso beauty and internat1 ,.. 

Learn fast: Intensive cours ,, , 
Fulfill the languagffeqfor~ment in 2 semesters 
,,;:Tu'. '.: 
Contact: Department of Rdinance Languages 
;largest 
Yof rich ' natural ortunities 
take a discount of seven percent offwhat they charge." 
CBLD provides services other colleges, including Saint Mary's and Northern Kentucky University. Hates for those schools are very similar to Notre Dame's. In addition to its college customers, CBLD serves residen­tial households as well. 
But while CBLD's contract will remain intar,I. at Notru Dame next year, there is possibility for change. 
Every thrN~ years, CBLD ncgo­ti ates a contract with Notre Dame's telecommunications department. During these nego­tiations, the Uni'iersity has a chance to work to improve stu­dent rates. CBLD's contract is up for negotiation in ;woo. 
In these negotiations, the University tries to apply certain standards to its long-distance carrier and uses its bulk of sub­scriptions tu influence pricing. 
"In our contract with CBLD, we require that lour rates! be a certain percentage below direct dial rat<'s of the big companies," he said. "Every three years. the University takes bids from differ­ent companies." 
If the rates of AT&T and other long-distance companies stay competitive, Notre Dame stu­dents could receivci a rate reduc­tion within two y('ars. 
For now. however, Shindeldecker disagrees with the assessment that CBLD has a monopoly on long-distance ser­vice at Notre Dame. 
"Not at all," he said, noting that students are free to use other calling cards, an option 
No Summer Plans?? 

Summer Service Projects 
A VAJLABLE 
(ND students only) 

• 
Service-Learning opportunity • $1,700 Scholarship/3 credits 

• 
8 Weeks volunteer work with a disadvantaged population 


In Cities of ND Alumni Clubs 
Applications available: Center for Social Concerns 

Projects available: 
Allentown, PA Catholic Social Services -variety Cleveland local student Denver kids program -local Des Moines Catholic Worker House 
Detroit 

LA SED -Hispanic Comm. Cntr -car Ft. Wayne Boys & Girls Club (car) -local Idaho 
La ~osada -migrant workers (spanish) Indianapolis variety Joliet Medical -female Kalamazoo migrant workers -( spanish) Kentucky males -2 different spots Los Angeles Shelter for men-male Marion, IN Abuse programs Michigan City,IN camp for devel. disabled adults Goshen, IN Boys & Girls Club 
Rockford, IL medical, car Savannah, GA Home for children (21 yr. old male) Washington, DC and more 
Stop in for more information or call: 
5 0 c I A L .._su_e_C_unn__in_:ag;:...h_a_m_._1-_7_8_67_o_r_E.....r____ik.....a:.:..F:..t=1e=h..:.:r..:.:m:..:e::!y..:::e:.r_::4'.:__-~14~9:.'.:'.8'.__ _:c::o=Nc ER Ns I 
The Observer/ Job Turner 

Calling options outside a student's dorm room are limited. One option students have is the pay phone to keep costs down. 
which many take advantage of'. CBLD regularly donates money Shindeldecker also said that for financial aid for Notre Dame 

. 
. . . 
.. .' 
, 

. . . .. ''" hiday, April 9, 1999 COlv!PILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
¦ 


Absent hijacker gets death sentence 
lll•:IIWT, l.1•ha11on 

,\ rornl!'r ..,,,rurity g11ard al H1iirui.'s intPr11ational airport has htwn s1•nt1111cn<l in ahs1•11tia to c!Path for a hija1·king 14 years ago 1.!1111. Jpfi mH1 p.-rson dnmL lt was thn lirst ronvil'tio11 in a hijad:ing dating b1u·k lo l.1•hano11's I 'l?!i-1)() rivil war. The Military Trilrnnnl lall' Wi•dnnsday found Doraid lla..,san guilty or tlw F<'li. 2:{, l98ri hijal'king ol' a l\1iddlP East t\irlinP.., B1wing 707 and s1•11LP111·1•d him to d«>ath. Thl' plan1•, wit.II 119 passPngPrs n!Joard, was hijal'knd as it prn­pan·d to lakl' o!T l'rom BPirut for a lliglit t.o Paris. A (>:i-y1•ar-old-111an di,•d anrt snvl'n 1wopl1· l\'Pl"t' injmi•d as tlwy srrambi<•d down f'lllPfgt'IH'Y 1'11ulPS wlw11 llw livn-hour drama 1•111l1>d. ltassan, a IPIJ1t1H's<• llrusP and lhn lo1w liijackPr, slipp1~d away, apparm1t.ly to Uww•i l'.it, a town ('1tsl or llw airport that was thPn 1·011trollPd hy llrnsn mili1.ia11w11. 
Buddhists want holiday for Buddha's birthday 
TAIPEI. Taiwan 

In pnnlominantly Buddhist Taiwan. Christmm; is a national holiday, but llm birth of tlw Buddha is not. Buddhist organizations said Thursday thny lwp(i to change that, and an1 1mtitioning lo havn April 8 designated as a dav whnn b1diPvr.rs and nonbr.lievers alike mi~y takP sonw timn for obsnrvanct\ and rl'flPction. "WI' hop1~ that vory soon the day wlH'll WI' 1:PIPhralP lht\ birth of tlrn Buddha will join otlwr important days as a national holiday," said l.iao Chung, a Buddhist monk who prnsidt"d ovt!r a 111assiv11 c11n~mo11y Thursday lo obsPrVP thP Buddha's birthday at a public squar<· in downtown Taip(d. Tlw n1.11sP rhalk11g1•s workaholic Taiwan. wh11rn most lJl'oplP ro!low a combination of Buddhism and traditional Cli[1ws11 polytlrnism. 
Mafia friend may receive death penalty 
PAl.E!lMO, Sicily 

l'roSI\CUtors who accuso forurnr Preminr c;iulio Andn•olti or !wiping llw Malia askPd a 1·mrrf Tl1trrs1lay to convict and sentrmce him to I;i ynars -a p1!nalty usually rnserved for top organizPd crinw bosses. Andreotti, 80, who was 0111' of Lim most powerful liguros in th,· last half c.-ntury of Italian polilics, dnnins that lw aidPd the Mafia in return for votes for his Christian lkmocrats in Sicily. !lo insists lw is tlw victim ol' a v1~ncletta hy mob­stP rs ang1•n•d by his anti-Mafia laws. llis trial. which lwgan in Urn Sicilian caJJital in 19'):,, is based largnly on testimony from moh turncoats. Closing defonso argumnnts art! to lll'gin next month. The jury is expr.ct­Pd lo dt•livnr its verdict in Jutw. 

ComJlo~ile 
+ 17.09 

Volumt•: + 112.39 815,!!00,ll00 
VOLUME LEADERS 

t'Oi\11~1\ii\. fl('t,;,r;R fl, nuN1a•~ ii i;.\IN Pkfn,: 
l)l·U ('(lMl'll'n:k llEI.I ·'IU •I .H7\ -1,.,., lJKA("JJ•CCJKi' {JR( l -i-1(].l +I MiJ.~ ~.\ lJ \ll('k< l\(IFTC"tJRI• ~1S!-'"T !-I 11 ., 247~ lJ4 lli(1 NI l°WOltl( A.S:SI x: Nl·TA -7 Kl I :?~1111 I.t.,1~ M< l \\'llkl.l)COM lN Wl'<lM .. 1 lH ilh'JOI ?17.M YAHOO Ir,'( YllOO SI I N7~ :!Ohf\lJ \('OM ('Oki' <"UMS t-'.'>!ll .1 ltfi'ill .21.l•J INjH.l'!Ull' INlC Ml .1 rn1~n l'l.llt,. ci-..:c·n ,vs.11-M~ csn> •1< 11100 117(12 ('OMl'IIWAH:t-COW.P <'l'Wk . f1t,'1 .... 1117,'; l'l.OP 

i\SSOCIATED PHESS Yet, at a windup news conference, are the best friends for you." 
they claimed important progress on In what he said was "a vnry solemn 
WASIIINGTON the contentious issue of trade, even statement," Zhu said 1111 and 
Chi1wsc Premier Zhu Hongji though they !'ailed to agree on a mar· President Jiang Znmin had no knowl­promised President Clinton on ht-opening deal that would have edge of suspicions that China stole Thursday to cooperate in investiga­cleared the way for China's entry into nuclear warlrnad designs from U.S. tions of alleged nuclear-weapons spy­the World Trade Organization -a labs in the 1980s. ing and illegal campaign contribu­longstanding Chinese goal. "I don't believe such a story," hn tions by Beijing "no matter who it Clinton's economic adviser. Gene said, chiding /\mPricans for doubting may involve." Sperling, said China made "signifi­China's ability lo dnvnlop its own 
But ho ridiculed tlrn suggestion of cant movement and concessions" and technology without U.S. lwlp. Chinnsc meddling in U.S. politics and the two leaders said they hoped to Zhu also mocked allegations that denind the espionage charge. reach a final agreement by year's China funneled $:{00,000 to Clinton's 
Sidn by side with Clinton al a 91-end. re-election campaign in 1996 in minutc news conference, Zhu also Clinton and Zhu answered ques­hopes of currying favor. With China rojnctml U.S. charges of human rights tions, jokod and sparrnd with each sitting on $146 billion in f'ornign cur­abusns in China as "unfair" and an other at length. Much oi' the time was rency res1\rves, ho said, "why just intrusion in its internal affairs takon up by Zhu's Jong answers and $300,000'! That would be too foolish." 
After a day ol' talks, both leaders translation, with Clinton listening Even so, he said China would coop­pointedly took note of heightened ten­patiently. 11 was lhe second longest erate with the U.S. investigations. "As sions and suspicions between their nnws conference of Clinton's presi­so long as you can provide somn nations. Zhu joked that he almost dency -just short of his 94-minute, clues, and no matter who it may canceled his visit because the political year-end wrapup appearance before involve, wn will inwistigato into it." atmosphere in the United States "is so the cameras in December 1997. Clinton said he discussed tlrn allega­anli-China." Clinton acknowledged Unapologetic about their differ­tions with Zhu in a meeting latn there is an "anti-China crowd in ences, Zhu said that "maybe the Wednesday and was told privately America." friends who are able to say no to you what Zhu said publicly. 
Refugee plan may not include Cuba 
ASSOCIATED PRESS 
WASHlNGTON 
Citing changed., condi~ tions, a Clinton adrrtinistra~ tion official raised . the pos~ sibility Thursday tbnt a plan to uso tlrn U.S.. naval base in Cuba to shelter 20,000 Kosovo rf:'fugees may be scrapped. 
"It's possible it won't happen,'' said J. Brian Atwood, the administra­tion's foreign aid chief and also coordinator for the 
U.S. relief ellbrt in support of the rofugeos. 
In a telephone conference cal I with reporters, Atwood said the decision on Tuesday to use the Guantanamo base for tem­porary asylum was made 
when thousands of Kosovar Albanians faced an extra• ord.inalily difficult humani·· taria.n situal.ion. 
.Since then, Atwood. si;tid, international reliqfeffort~ have improved living condi­tions. At1otbor plus, he, said, was the transfer of tens of thousands of des­porahi 1·efugees from the "no-man's land" along the Kosovo-Albanian border. 
Atwood said no one in tho government is enthusiastic about housing refugees at Guantanamo because of the heat and the base's long distance .from the Balkans. 
MWe want to keep people in the region," Atwood said. "We want to prepare the pu<,plc to return lo their homes. lt will be a lot easier to undertake that if they am in the region." 
He said the administra­
·· tit"?n is ~till prepared to take peopleinto Guantanamo hut will do so only if there 'are voluntoors. Ho added 'that many apparently wollld prefer to remain closl~ to home. At the Pentagon, Air Force Maj. Gen. Charles Wald told report.ers that the Guantanamo base was ready to receive Kosovar refugees. But, he sald, no final decision had been made to fly any there. The Cuban government, while condemning NATO military action against Yugoslavia, said it has no objection to use of' 
Guantanamo as a refugee haven and also offered to cooperate in providing assistanco. 
If no r!lfugoos aro sm1t to Guantanamo, it could mean that none w<.iuld come to the United Stntos at all. 
Earlier this decade, tho base was used for rnfug•ies from Haiti and Jator from Cuba, In 1995, the ndminis• tration decided to resettle the Cubans in th1~ United States out of concern about a violent uprising by the many Cubans unhappy with their situation on Guantanamo, Officials have said there is no rhance that any Kosovar refug0t1s sent to the base will be allowed to sPltle on the U.S. maill• land, 



page 6 
Swing 

continued from page 1 ;. 
expand the club next year. He foresees trips to Chicago to dance at clubs there and per­haps a weekly night at a South Bend club in addition to the classes. 
But is swing just a passing fancy'? 
"I used to think it was a fad," said Davis. "But this has been picking up for over two and a half y1mrs now. If people want it to stay, it will." 
"It isn't difficult." added Barlin. 
And if you can't quite get the Lindy Hop under control, you can always ask grandma for some pointers. 

The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
Special to The Observer 
A workshop for religious educators and liturgical ministers, entitled "Preaching the Languages of the Liturgy," will be held Sunday through Tuesday at Notre Dame. 
The workshop, sponsored by Notre Dame's Center for Pastoral Liturgy, will bring together priests, men and women religious, lay catechists and liturgy plan­ners for a discussion. The discussion will dflal with the words, gestures and objects of Catholic liturgy. 
"In the renewal of the liturgy, Catholics have experienced an expanded Liturgy of 
Be kind to the earth. Recycle the Observer. 
//fl 
111 
·ii 
IJ!p 
:Ftt 
1 
.flfr,i_qqart UllJ} -<{!'di!! 
1"c:i:r!-w(1rll 
,;, \'/ C:l//1 
·1r/11 
I,;/ 

the Word with a greatly enhanced lec­tionary and preaching that is grounded in scripture," said Sister Eleanor Bernstein, director of the center and one of the workshop speakers, "but what about the other sources of preaching and mysta­gogy? How can preachers, liturgy plan­ners, catechists for children, adult initia­tion teams rediscover the rich and ancient languages of the liturgy? Can mystagogy -opening up the liturgy ­again become a vital part of our faith experience?" 
Other workshop speakers will include Father Timothy Fitzgerald, associate 
Friday, April 9, 1999 

dirnctor of the center and author of "Baptism: A Parish Celebration"; Nathan Mitchell, associate director of the center, editor of Assembly and author of' "Eucharist as Sacrament of Initiation"; Craig Satterley, ordained minister of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America and doctoral candidate in liturgical stud­ies at Notre Dame; and Father James Schmitmever, author of "The Words of Worship: Presiding and Preaching at the Rites." 
Further information on "Preaching the Languages of the Liturgy" may be obtained by calling the center. 

Friday, April 9, 1999 The Observer • HEALTH NEWS page 7 
Clinton pushes for patients' rights 
Malaysia virus 
Sl'rious, real bill 1\nactPd," Whitn up hnallh costs and "oprm t.hn llousp spokesman Barry Toiv door lo more lawsuits." WASI [lNCTON said. "This helps trial lawyors who 
stumps scientists 
l'rnsidnnt Clinton and mon' A Snnat<' cornmitteo approved pocket most of thP money, but tha11 l00 D!'mocrats am staging a mon\ limited IIMO bill on a dons nothing to help patients gnt 
Associated Press 
old-fashioned pPp rullins and a party-line vot11 last month, but prop1•r care when nneded," said n1~wrangl(•d lntPrrH'L pnlition thnrn has bcnn no action in the Dan Danner. chairman of the 
KUAJ.A LUMPlJH, Malaysia 

drive• in lhis ynar's liglll for tlw Ilous11 ynt. Dnmocrats complain Ilnalth Bennl11...<; Coalition, which 
A tropical virus that haskilled dozons of people in Malaysia is
"pali«'nts' hill of rights." tlw Sr>.riato bill would only cover has run television ads in 19 
the· first of its kind and virologists are stumped as to how itThe pn·sid1rnt w,LS rlying to about 48 millio11 ;\111cricans who stains ovor the past lwo weeks. 
spreads, an American health ollicial said today. .
l'hilad1•lphia today to rc•rmw his aro in health plans regulatod But White !louse oflicials con­Nine sdontists from the United States and othor oxperts fromarJ.{UllH'nt !'or rww nigulations solely by th<' fncl!'ral govnrn-tend that the 285 health plans Australla, Taiwan and Japan arrived in Malaysia several weeks 011 IIMOs and othl'r ma11ag11d nw11t. that serve l'edcral workers also ago to. h~lp the Southeast Asian country dotormim1 the nature
can• plans. Clinton header! to l'hiladnlphia scnvti private citizens and am 
of tho virus believed to be spreading from pigs to humans.
i\ clozm1 or mol't\ llouse armed with new figures that providing those guarantees !'or 
The CDC said Thursday that 229 people are believed to have
l lrnnocrals w1irp joining him by show his oxoculivt! at:tion last just a few extra dollars. 
beensickened in the last six months in Malaysia. At least l1 l bus t'rom Capitol !!ill, whern Vl'Hr cxtnnding such prot<'ctions "Tim same things r.an be 
have died. 

lhl'y wn1· starting thri day by lo 'J million federal r,mploycns applied for all Americans," said 
"This is a new.· previously unrecognized virus found in
unwiling a n<1w W1ih sitP whom is costing hiss than $10 por per-Chris fonnings, Clinton's top 
humans," Tom Skinner, o. spokesman for the U.S. Centc:s of
co111pul1ir usnrs can hnallh policy aido. 
Di$ease Control and Ptevention in Atlu.nta told The Assotrated
sigr1 a pdil.io11 sup­The president does 
Prossbytelephone. "This virus has nevor been seen before." 
po rli 11 g th<• park­not havn the power to 
The scientists have been tramping through pig pens and
'THE PATIENTS' BILL OF RIGHTS IS ONE Of
ag<i. unilaterally extend to 
farlllitlg communities where the deadly virus nr~t appear<.:d,
THE PRESJDENT'S HIGHEST PRIORITIES FOR
Anutlwr [)() federal workers tho 
\NMdng gloves, gowns and battery-operated rnsp1rators while 
IlPmocrats am fan­rnosl controversial ­
THE YEAR, AND GlVEN THE CHANGES IN THE CON­
vi::iiting the worst-hit areas.

ning out across :l2 and most expensive ­
"We don't know if it's highly infectious. We don't know how
GRESS THIS YEAR, WE BELIEVE WE HAVE AN
stat,•s for tllt'ir owu provision that 
p~opte a.re being infected," Skinner said. "It doesn't appoar.
1·.a111 paij.{n-sty!P ral­EXCELLENT CHANCE OF GETTING A SERIOUS, REAL Democrats are push­~ightnow, that this is being transmittiid from person to person,
liPs. ing: the right to sue 
b~,t~e·re still.not going t~ rule that out."
BILL ENACTED.'

"l)1•morn1ts arn hMlth plans and col!fict 
,· GpveimmMt health. experts Initially said the outbreiik began
going to takl' th is damages when they 
with the deaths of15 peoplelast October who succumbed to tho light 011 tlw road," B,l!lRY TO!V withhold treatment. 
Japanese encephalitis virus., which is transmitted by the Culexsai,l Hep. Bosa Nor has Clinton ili()/:iqtdto. These findings were confirmed by World Health
l>oLauro, D-Co1111. WIIITt' HOUSE SPOKb'SJ'bRSON required the plans to 
Qrganlz1:1tion oflicialsfrom .Japan who canrn to help investigato. 
"W1•n• going to usn pay for ''medically nec­•.·•······ ;~utinJa.to February, th(l number of deaths among villagerstlw latPs1 technology, this inl'or­son por year. essary" r.arn. as df'tPrmined by 
a).id f.a.rmers in the hog~reariug district of Bukit Pelandok in
mali1m supnrhighway, to give The president. was being doctors. 
~~Ptra.l Neg!:'lri .Semhila.n jumped dramatically' prompting
voic(' to tlw pm>pil! in this coun­joincrl al Memorial I!all torlay by But today, Clinton was newly 
.h~alt~Jitlicial$to.soek further help.
try." Joan Bleakley of Woodbridge, requiring federal workers' 
:. fytak1,ysia.n virologists flew t<> the United States on March 17
Tlwir no-hol<ls-lrnrrnd push Va.. the latost p,irson to be trot­health plans to adopt two popu­
1· Wll~•S<j.trlples. Lab analyses quickly proved that the virus wasn't.
for l«'gislation that died in llrn tot! out by thl' administration in lar provisions: The mandatory 
J1.4pant:1$0 enct:lphalitis.Jnstea.d, it resembled a very rare Hendra
!lopublica11-IPd Congress last its attnrnpt to put a human face release of information about 
1 vi~JJ$J., firstdetected illAustraliain 1994. .
y1•ar is cmhold,111ed by to tho policy argument. customer satisfaction. the quali­
' ~yQ:)ptpms a.r~ th9 same for both viruses -lugh fever, acb(~{'l.
Ilt•moaatic gains in Noviimb1!r's Bloakley says she sustainnd ty of doctors and hospitals, and 
1 eventualc.oma anddeiLth.
congn•ssi111ml dt\rlions. pcrmannnl vision loss in one eye how doctors are paid -and ­
' A.'simJlar illness afflicted 11 slaughterhouse workers in
"Tlw pntit111Ls· hill or righls is aftnr lrnr lIMO delayed approval the allowance for patients to 
S1µgapore.lastmo11th after they handled imported pigs from 
Olli' or tlll' prcsid1rnt's higlwst l'or her to seo a spneialist for stay with their doctors for 90 
Malaysia, the CDC said..One of the workars diod.
prioritit\S for llw year. ,llld given what tunrnd oul to bo a develop-days, even if the doctor is 
tt1s I1ot _clear what proportion of the illnesses were caused by
the changns in thn Congress this ing aneurysm. dropped from the network, if 
inftfotiorts with the new Hendra-llke virus or how many were
y('aJ', WP lwli1•vo Wt\ havl' an Opponents of the legislation pationts are in the middle of' a 
due to )apanes(i enQephalitis, the CDC said.
l'X<:c•llnnt d1anci' ol' gotting a arguci unw regulations will drive treatment or pregnancy. 
the 
l>eloi tte &.Touebe i$ c<1flti<lUiil,oppreligiofl, creed; color, l'llt • · 
page 8 The Observer• NEWS Friday, April 9, 1999 
Mergers threaten small Mayor from Michigan resigns 
bookstores' futures 
Associated Press book titles, CDs and even cap­
puccino bars. 
SEATTLE Because of their high vol­
Sandwiched between coffee ume. these stores were able to bars and vintage clothing slash prices. shops. the Fremont Place Book Then came Amazon.com. Co. has provided the city's The online retail giant has hip, young Fremont neighbor­revolutionized the market, hood with everything from enabling shoppers to buy, send obscure titles to bestsellers for and special-order books with a more than a decade. click of the mouse. 
But a sign in tile window ln March, the American warns of an uncertain future: Booksellers Association and "This bookstore is endan­other independent bookstores gered." filed suit against the two retaH 
The owners of the store, like book r.hains. · hundreds wllo run indepen­They said that they have dent houkstores nationwide, used their clout to secure ille­fear being gal deals and wiped out by preferential chain-owned treatment
'THE SMALL STORES
megastores from publish­and <'.yber HELP MAKE RURAL ing houses. 
shops that LIFE MORE VIBRANT. Another suit offer virtually filed by inde­limitless titles. pendent book-
The latest SENATOR RON WYDEN sellers iu 
threat is the proposed acquisition by 
Barnes & Noble -the coun­try's largest bookstore chain -of Ingram Book Co., the world's largest book distribu­
tor. 
For independent booksellers, the $600 million deal is the last straw. 
"We were all just aghast when we heard about the deal," says Carol Santoro. co­owner of Fremont Place. 
"It's becoming more and more of a dynasty." 
Smaller booksellers worry the merger will allow Barnes & Noble to learn what others are buying. 
Santoro has responded by shifting orders to other suppli­ers. 
But independent booksellers are not the only ones worried about self-preservation in a changing industry. Even a giant in the business like Ingram says it cannot overlook the impact of chain stores and online retailers in the market. 
Online book sales are expected to account !'or 10 percent of all transactions by 2002. 
At the urging ol' several members of Congress, includ­ing Democratic Sen. Ron Wyden of Oregon, and inde­pendent booksellers, the Federal Trade Commission is looking into the· deal between Ingram and Barnes & Noble. 
The state attorney general in California -homo lo many independent booksellers ­also is investigating. 
Wyden took up the cause because of personal exposure to the tough circumstances facing small booksellers. 
His father was an author and ran his own publishing house for some years. 
"I was raised being skeptical about what is happening in the booksnlling business," Wyden said. 
He supports conditions to the mergrir so all booksellers have equal access to published material. Ile also fuvors "firewalls" to prevent informa­tion sharing. 
Without such conditions. Wyden believes the deal could be the death of the small stores. 
"I think this really is a sur­vival issue !'or then1." Wyden said. 
Independent bookstores have been on the offensive sinr.e the dawn of the mega bookstore, when giants like Borders and Barnes & Noble opened up triple decker shops stocked with thousands of 
CONGRESSMAN AuguS t also n a m e s Amazon.com and BarnesandNohle.com. The ABA argues that tho proposed deal between Ingram and Barnes & Noble will add to the stranglehold on independent booksellers and reduce the diversity of materi­als. "You wind up with a small­er and smaller group of people deciding who to publish," said Len Vlahos of the ABA. based in Tarrytown, N.Y. While there will always be the John Grishams and other big moneymakers, bookstores also need to make room for lesser known names. "You like to think artistic content matters," says Santoro. "Not just the bottom line." Ingram says it is reaching out to its clients to assure them of confidentiality in their transactions. Predictions that the merger will reduce the variety of books available are just not true, says Mary Ellen Keating of Barnes & Noble. "We are going to make every book available," she said. But Wyden says independent bookstores do more than just sell books, and often function as community centers. "The small· stores help make rural life more vibrant," Wyden said. 
Port Huron 

mayor leaves 
office because ofsexual mis­conduct charges 
Associated Press 

PORT BURON, Mich. 
Gerald "Ajax" Ackerman resigned as mayor following his arraignment on 14 counts of sexual misconduct involv­ing children -which sent shock \Nav0s through this city an hour north of Detroit. 
''This community just feels violated," City Council mem­ber Cliff Schrader said. 
Mavor Pro Tern Steven Mille; confirmed this morning that the city received Ackerman's letter of resigna­tion Wednesday afternoon. 
Ackerman, honored five years ago by the National Association of Social Workers, became mayor -a mostly ceremonial role, since the city has a city manager to run the government -in 1997. 
Ackerman never looked like a typical mayor, with his lon_g flowing red beard, ponytail and leather duds. He didn't have the background of a typ­ical mayor, either. He admit­ted he's a former drug and alcohol addict and liked to ride motorcycles. 
And for this conservative city of 37,000, electing such a man to the mayor's seat took what Schrader described as "a lot of trust." 
That trust was shattered as the man who used his story of struggle to overcome drug and alcohol addiction to help young people himself stood charged with sexual miscon­duct involving children he counseled. 
The usually flamboyant and outspoken Ackerman stood silent during his arraignment Wednesday in a crowded courtroom. 
Ackerman, 42, was charg0d with six counts of first-degree criminal sexual conduct, five counts of criminal sexual con­duct, two counts of produc­tion of child abusive material and one count of indecent exposure. The charges involve four girls, ages 9 to 14. police Capt. Brian Moeller said. 
Ackerman was accused of taking pornographic photos of some of the girls and appear­ing with them in some. Moeller said. He said police spent four hours Tuesday night searching Clear Choices. a counseling facility that Ackerman runs, and took two computers from it. 
Ackerman, for whom the judged entered an innocent plna, was released Wednesday night on $25.000 bond. 
Since he moved here in the late 1980s, he has been con­
'THIS COMMUNl1Y JUST 
FEEIS VlOLATED.' 

CUFF SCIIRAfJh'R 
Cln CovNCIL Mt.MEER 
sidered a role model for kids and motivation for others try­ing to break free of their addictions. 
"We really opened up to Aj ax an d his past. " City Council member Anita Ashford said. 
But Wednesday, those who once welcomed him voiced outrage; others expressed dis­belief. 
"I feel he kind of let his community down," said Donna Stranyak, a 36-year­old waitress at the downtown Cavis Cafe. 
One of her patrons, Randy Arnott, a 47-year-old laborer and longtime resident. doesn't believe the charges. "I just can't see him do that," he said. "They don't know if he did it.... It could be some kind of hoax." 
If convicted, Ackerman could face life in prison. but would more likely get a 16-to­23-year prison sentence, St. Clair County Assistant Prosecutor Mona Sayed said. 
Police said Ack0rman was arrested following an inv,~sti­gation into complaints by the girls' parents. Tho alleged abust:t occurred between August and March, Sayed said. 
An alcoholic at 14, he was in and out of' rehabilitation facilities for most of his 20s beforn sobering up. 
Since moving to Port llurqn, he has worked part-time at a mental health center and an lllV/AIDS clinic, opened Clear Choices and volunteered at a slrnlter for runaways. 



-·  The Muslim Students Association presents a lecture on THE CHALLENGE OF POLITICAL ISLAM by Prof. John L. Esposito Professor of Religion and lnt.cmational Affairs, Professor oflslamic Sturues, and DirecLor of Lhc CcnlCJ' for Muslim· Christian Understanding at GeorgeLown University, Washington, D.C. Friday, April 9, 1999 4p.m. Montgomery Theater, LaFortune Center Co-sponsored by The Medituranean/Middle East Studies Program The Kellogg Institute The Kroc Institute for Peace Studies  

Friday, April 9, 1999 The Observer • NEWS 
Study: Social Security saves third of elderly from poverty 
Associated Press 
W!\SIIINGTON 
Soda! SPrurity hcrmlits k1inp about a third or thn nation·s ddPrly f'rom slipping into poverty nnd sig­11 ifira II tly lwlp narrow tlrn incomn disparities bPlwn,:11 wo11H'.11 and nrnn in old age, a study rnlnasPd Thursday shows. 
"So!'ial S1H'.Urity cuts about in half tho gap in povPrly rall'.S ill'lWPl'll ddnrly wonwn a11d elderly 1111•11." said Hoh1•rl C;r·1:nnslein, nxncutiv<~ director of tlw Conl<•r for BudgPt and Policy l'riorilins. 
ThP r<!llll'r is sknptical of proposals Lo rnmakn thn Social S,:curity sysll'm to allow privatn inVl'stmn11t and gi•nPrally s11pporls kl)l!ping tlw current systnm intact. 
Ov1'.rall. tlH' study f'ound that without inconrn from Social S1•curity, 47.<i 1wrcnnl of nldnrly A.tn1'.ricans, or l s.:1 million pnoplo. would haw benn poor in I<JIJ7. Sol'ial Sncurity 1:ut that pov1n-ty ratl' by 11.9 p1·1T1·11t. or :U-l million sm1ior citiznns. 
Tl11• monthly 11lwl'ks mean that :l!"i.7 porcnnt of p1•opll' agPs (1:i and older who would live in poverty haVI' inronws that placn tlwm ahovn tlw poverty lirw. 
Without nmntlily Social Sornrity checks, 52.(, pnr­1'.Pllt or wonwn fi;i and old1\r would be poor, com­fWl'l)d with 40.8 1wrcenl ol' men -a gap of 1·1 .8 per­t·Pntagn points, the study found. But \vith Social St•curily. 14.7 pPn:Pnl of elderly wom1•n Wtlff' poor, c11111parP<I with 8.2 !Jl'rcPnt of' nwn -cutting tho gap hl'lWf'.l'.11 lhn s1ixns to (1.!"i pnrcnntag!i points. 
Wo1111·11 who arn not rnarrind wlwn they arn dder­ly do not IH'1wlit as much, Groonst.oin said. Even with Social Sm·urity lwnntils. thn povorty rate among Pld1·rly widows is 20.:{ ppn:ont, and f'or singln and divon:l'd wonwn it is 27 pnrcnnt. 
Ttrn nonprofit rcs<mrch cnntM usnd 1997 census data to nwastm'. tlw Plfoct 11r Social SPcurity on lift­ing Pldnrly Anwricans' inronws nbovc tho Fnderal povnrty l!'vd. 
I-:lclnrly individuals w1T11 t·.011si<l1•rnd to bn poor in J()<J7 ii' tlwy had inconw bP!nw $7.698 a year; the li•vd for PldPrly c·ouphis was bolow $9.712. 
Woml'll gel a particularly good deal from Social SPcurity, tlw study found. !\It.hough women pay 38 
Elderly Income Based on Social Security 

35.8% 



The Observer/Joe Mueller 

percent of all Social Security payroll taxes, they get 53 percent of benefits. 
In part, that is because women live longer than men, and Social Security benefits rise each year to keep up with inllation. Also, women make up the bulk of thosr, who collect the special Social Security benefits that spouses, widows and widowers are fmtitled to receivH even ii' thHy never worked them­sdves. 
Social Security generally provides bigger retire­ment checks to people who earned more during their working lives, and men tend to earn more than women. 
But the program somewhat mitigates that by tak­ing into account a higher percentage of low-wage workers' earnings when calculating their retirement benclil'i, and that helps women. 
The study also found that black and Hispanic Amnricans draw a larger percentage of their old­age income from Social Security than whiles. Elderly blacks get on average 43.4 percent of' their income from the retirement program, compared with 41.4 percnnt for Hispanic Americans and 35.8 percent for whitns. 
• THAILAND 
'. U.S. Senator: Trial 
will aid Cambodia 
BANGKOK 

Ciirn.bodia's plan to try a f~rmer Khmer Rouge. leader 'll;ith help from foreign 
.jtidges and .prosecutors can sttengthen the country's institutions while providing accountability for the group's genocidal rule, a U,S. senator said Thursday. 
Sen. John Kerry, a Massachusetts Democrat, described the plan as a '\viwwln"J situation. 
Cambodian Prime Minister Hun Sen agreed during a meeting Tuesday night with Kerry to ha.ve·foreign· partic­ipation in Cambodia's trial of formergµerrilla commander Ta Mok.In.a compromise With calls for a fully. intema­tionaltribunal. · . 
Human rights groups. the United Nations, the United 
~ $ta.te;s and other countries have. said· Cambodia's judi­
cial system has neither the compettince. nor the political independence to hold a cred• ible tri~ that will fully and fairlyinvestigate Khmer Rouge ·crimes. 
BµcHun Sen has rerused thefrc.allsfor an intemation~ aLtdbunal to prosecute the ta.dJc'al•· eoJDmunist move­1 mel.)ts l(;laders.hip. He has aJso resisted trying many 
Khmer Houge leaders, say­ing It would harm attempts at reconciliation. 
The policies of the Khmer Houge during their 1.975­1979 reign of terror worn responsible for the death of as many as 2 million Cumbodinns through over· work, starvation or execu­tion. 
Kerry, speaking lo reporters in Bangkok on the wav back to the United States, said the compromise of a Cambodian court with foreign assistance was "the best opportunity to provide world opinion .ind Cambodian opinion with res­olution in an accountable way." 
An international tribunal without Cambodian coopera­tion could a.Jso be suspect in Hs results, he said. 
Ta Mok, meanwhile, was visited Thursday by his lawyer, Cambodian­American Benson Samay, for the first time at the military prison whero he is being dntained awaiting trial. . 
Arrested March 6 by tho army. the one-legged Tt\ Mok, known as "The. Butcher," has been charged with terrorist acts against the government under a 
1. 994 law outlawing tho Khmer Rouge. 


"1~'4-f .. ~ 
\\lt\p\'o\Qttt-· · "th\cl(-~,us\' P\22.a 

1. Call 1-6902 between 6 pm and 1 am 
2. Give us your order 
($5.00 minimum) 
3. We wiII Wf~~nr your
~{~~-~tr·:. FLEX account 
...l~-',.~...... 
~-· t#lT.<,~j··
~~:\~-..,, 

-~~~w

·•· 4.WHEN DELIVERED, show us your ID and sign the voucher 
I . ~ $5.00 -~­
-~~rr (Coupon Required) ~, 
1 
Use your Flex Points · : for Delivery 6 pm -1 am 
• 
Tomassito's • 
X 1 
Call The Huddle at 1-6902 

~~-.99 2-Lite;:-c;;iel'roduct --, 
I with any Large 1411 Pizza I ___, (Coupon Required) • 
Use your Flex Points ­
1 
for Delivery 6 pm -1 am
1 1 8 Tomassito•s • 
Call The Huddle at 1-6902 
L 
J 
page 10 The Observer. TECHNOLOGY NEWS Friday, April 9, 1999 
Bogus Web report sends stock soaring 
Yahoo! The report appearedHoax increases credible, with quotes from com­pany officials, and the pagePairGain was a near-perfect replica of the Web site run by financial 
news giant Bloomberg LP. PairGain shares, which closed at $8.50 Tuesday, rose as high 
Technologies 
stock 31 percent 
as $11.12 1/2 on Wednesday Associated Press before company officials con"­firmed the report was untrue 
;,::,,;, . ' ..., 

NEWYOHK and the page was yanked from many.peo.;
Wall Street has always traf­the Internet. The stock settled 
flyh1gover

ficked in rumors, but as an back to close at $9.37 1/2, 011 
holiday,

online hoax demonstrated this volume of 13. 7 million shares. 
fexecutive 

week, the lightning speed of the On an average trading day, 9p i>ffkials Internet can give a scam a big about 2 million shares of 
sAirtme~.,

head start on the truth. PairGain change hands. .•. had a 
A bogus report on PairGain Volume Thursday was down Technologies posted to 1.2 million shares as Wednesday on the World Wide PairGain slipped 25 cents to Web boosted the company's close at $9.12 1/2. stock price 31 percent before PairGain and Bloomberg offi­........ ·...· ·. s 
the storv was debunked. cials said Thursday that they 
h~g··•..• sai~ 

The inr:idtrnt caught the had turned the matter own to in. Adelaide,attention of regulators and the Securities and Exchange :,fsp§e<ih ·to a reminded investors, especially Commission, which wouldn't 
..ipij ,of. i;!;C<:9Uijtimpulsive confirm t plac~ l'd -»'ant 
day traders, details of /· < ..· ''sinthe that the any investi­
speed 'T"E INTERNET HAS BECOME gation.
and But simplicity of legal experts
THE WORLD'S LARGEST 
the Internet said the per­
CONFERENCE CALL. AND PLENTY
can also petrator of 
IBM will offer PC products online 
w r e a k OF THE PEOPLE TALKING ABOUT the PairGain hoax could
h"!-."0 ~ h e STOCKS HAVE HIDDEN MOTIVE.5 Associated Press sonal computers, but most of the the Dallas-based Channel
find himself 
revenue comes from computer Marketing Corp., said IBM's 
Internet has FOR WHAT THEY'RE SAYING.' charged with NEW YORK servers, memory chips and net­planned move is the latest in the 
securities
b(}come the IBM plans to offer its entire PC working gear. growing trend of PC manufac­
world's fraud and 
product line for sale over the Furthermore, only 7 percent of turers selling directly to the
largest con­ANTHONY ELG!NDY wi're fraud, 
Internet -much like rivals Dell IBM's e-commerce revenues business or consumer.ference PACIFIC EQUITY LWESTIGATIONS and could 
Computer, Gateway and Compaq come from sales to small busi­Still, IBM's upgraded focus on
call," said face five to 
Computer -as it goes directly ness or consumers, which often direct sales runs the risk of
Anthony 30 years in 
after the small business and perceive IBM products as alienating the computer resellers 
Elgindy, an prison and consumer market. designed for large-scale opera­who have traditionally sold IBMonline trad-fines of up to 
But the new strategy runs the tions. products and now will be com­er who runs Pacific Equity $1 million. 
risk of alienating the resellers "Frankly, this is another peting against IBM for the sameInvestigations, a research firm. The losses to investors who and retailers of IBM machines avenue for [small businesses] to business, Goldstein said. 
"And plenty of the people talk­took the bait are tough to tally. 
that have made Big Blue one of reach IBM," said Barbini. Barbini said, however, thating about stocks have hidden Dozens of stock traders lament­the world's top computer mak­IBM's online sales totaled $3.3 IBM would be working with the
motives for what they're say­ed the hoax in postings on 
ers. billion last year and are expect­businesses that sell IBM prod­
ing." investment chat rooms, but 
Code-named Project Odyssey, ed to exceed $10 billion in 1999. ucts to help them secure rev­No one vet knows the source none were forthcoming about IBM's plan focuses on luring In 1998, IBM had $81. 7 billion in enue-generating service and or the rriotives behind the their own experiences. 
small businesses and con­revenue overall. installation contracts. In thisfraudulent report on PairGain, A few chastised themselves sumers as new customers, said They hope to increase online instance, both IBM and the part­which appeared early for responding so quickly to the Edward Barbini, a company sales not only through the sale of ner would make money. 
Wednesday on Angelfire.com, a PairGain rumor. 
spokesman. PC products, but also by selling Service revenues were one ofWeb site that allows surfers to "Let's raise our require­IBM already enjoys substantial the services that will enable the bright spots in IBM's fourth­create personal Web pages. ments for allowing ourselves to revenues from its Web site -an companies to conduct their busi­quarter report, jumping 20 per­The report said PairGain, a be impressed," wrote one trad­estimated $38 million a day. ness online, Barbini said. cent while overall revenue rose
Tustin, Calif., maker of er. 
That includes sales of some per-David Goldstein, president of only 6 percent.
telecommunications equipment, "Criminality deserves no 

vv"t>uld be acquired by an admiration," wrote another. Is}aeli firm, ECl Telecom, for Yet rumors spread over the $1.35 billion, or about twice its Internet have been the lifeblood 
current market value. of the growing ranks of day Traders leapt on the hot tip, traders, who try to make quick buying up shares and touting profits from the twists and 
MORE THAN MEETS 
the stock in chat rooms run by turns of corporate America. 
THE EYE 
To receive your Summer Term Catalog, visit us on the Web at www.bu.edu/summerterm, or return this coupon to:

Two Six-Week Sessions 
Boston University Summer Term 755 Commonwealth Avenue
Dav and 

~ Room 203
Evening Classes 
Boston, MA 02215 

Session 1: May 2S-July 3 Session 2: July 6-August 14 
Name 

REGISTRATION BEGINS 
Monday, April 26, 1999 Address 
Boston University Summer Term 
BOSTON
755 Commonwealth Avenue 
College/University

Boston, Massachusetts 02215 UNIVERSITY 
www.bu.edu/summerterm 
UND361 

----------------~----------------------------------· ----------~ 
Friday, April 9, 1999 
The Observer• NATIONAL NEWS 
page I I 

Girl brings back ice cream man 
that none reported any inci­dents of drug dealing, child SUDBUHY. Mass. abuse or pnrsonal injury,"
Tlw icP crnam man rnturnnlh 
Cnntilc said. to this town. thanks lo an clo­
She arguod that statistics 
qunnt 12-y<•ar-old girl. 
show ice croam Lrucks are Sara (im1Lilti pPrsuadml rrnarly 
safor than school busi>s, bicy­:mo grown-ups al W<\dnnsday 
cles and skatnboards. nigh l's Lown Illf\l'ting to allow 
Tl1e board of snlncLmon sup­ici, i:rnam lrucks bnck into this 
portNI ht'r proposal bncause, as small town ouL..;idn Boston. 
s11!,~ctma11 1\laryann Clark putTim sixth-grnd11r did lrnr 
it, "Tho sclcdmnn am children lio111nwork for lwr pniscnl11tion, 
at !wart." lrnvi11g writtPn to nearly a 
An ,tttomµL last ym.11· to lift the 
doznn town r.ltirks and polico han was rP-jccted aftnr a rPsi­
d1icfs in r!l'arhy r·ommunif.if!s 
d1mt said the trucks would lead 
tllal allow icn cream trucks. 
to rwist! pollution andtraffic "I am pleas.-d lo inform you 
dangm·s. 

NYC fines dad for kids in trees f 
A•sociated Press 
latn -the tree was damaged. Tho girls soon got borod and They said they will bring pho­
decided to climb Lreos instnnd.
NEWYOHK 
tographs of broken boughs to Tlrny went into a special grov,,Childrun climbing trer1s?! This 
environmental court to prove it. 
where pinn treos get extra camhas got to stop! 
Avellino said he would fight and choso a .Japanese whiteThat's prntly much the mes­the ticket, 
pine, 0110 or 

sage Anthony Avellino said he 
which citf!s 
only about a

got from two park rangers last 
him for 
doznn in the

montl1. They handed him a "destruction, 'My CHIIDREN HAVE 
city.

$1,000 ticket after his daugh­defacement or 
BEEN CLIMBING TREES P a r k s
ters, ages 9 and 11, and their 
abuse of a FOR NINE YEARS. PLEASE Department
11-year-o!d friend were caught tre!>.." 
spokesman

climbing a Japanes,i whit!'! pine 
It is not the GIVE ME A WARNING. ( WILL 
Edward Skyler

in Cnnlral Park. 
wackiest ticket MAKE SURE THAT IT WILL said Thursday
"Mv childrun have been ever given in 
that tlrn trnPs1climbing trnes for nine 

New York City. NOT HAPPEN AGAIN.' 
which hav~ycars,"J\vellino said. "Please There was soft boughs;

give mt\ 11 warning. I will make 
the so-called 
am not indige­

suro that it will not happen 
pee-wee wee­ANT//ONY AVHUJNO nous to Nnw 
again." 
wee case, in FATHER OF 111/iF (.VM!JFRS York and cost
But officials sairl it was too 
which the 
several thou­grandmother of a 4-year-old sand dollars apiece. 
Homes for Rent 

• 
Domus Properties has two, five, six and nine bedroom student housing available 

• 
Student neighborhoods close to campus 

• 
Security systems provided 

• 
Well maintained homes 

• 
Maintenance staff on call 


Available for the 1999/2000 school year 
Contact Kramer (219) 276-7020 or (219) 674-2571 or (219) 233-4509 
was given a $50 ticket for let­
Two park rangers ordernd ting the boy deposit a "noxious the children down. ' liquid"on city property. (Tho 
Avellino said the childron 

lad urinated on a bush.) 
Or tho deli owner ordtired to pay $1,000 for damaging a honoy locust tree by chaining his bicycle to it; a judge dis­missed the charge. Or thti 23 winter-solstice revelers who were fined $50 for dancing around a beach bonlirn without Parks Department permission. 
The story or the pine fine began on March 21 when Avellino. a New York restau­rant manager, took his daugh­ters Leah and Hebecca and their friend Darrayn to Central Park to knock a softball around. 
were sitting still in the trne 
Lolling ouch otlrnr stories, and 
that tlrny were startled by tho 
ranger and while complying 
with the order orrn child hrokn 
a branch. 
Skyler said the rangers saw at least thrim branches fall and noticed several others broken and two or throe morn lying on the ground. 
A warning was out of thn question. "Tho damage was done," Skyler said. ! 
But with no posted signs, how's a park patron supposed to know that tree-climbing is forbidden? 
University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
~be JF!otre 1!\ante QCborale & QCbamber '®rcbestra 
Alexander Blachly, Director 
Music of: Bach Lassus Brahms Mozart 
8:00 p.m. 

Wed., Apr. 14 Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
AdvllllC9 T1cket Saltt Av111able rl .t.$4 00 •All Showa 8efo111 ll pm ,./ 0. 
• •$tuden11 •Seniors 
The Matrix Digital R 
[12:30 1:20/ 4:00 4:30 7:00 7:30 9:50 10:20 
Doug's 1st Movie  Digital  G  
[11:102:05/4:10  
Shakespeare in Love  Digital  R  

Free & open to the public. 

She's All That  PG-13  
[2:15)4:45 7:15 9:30  
Rushmore  R  
[2:30] 5:00 7:30 9:40  
10 Things I Hate about You  R  
[2:00] 4:30 7:00 9:20  


... 
-

Students and Seniors s4.oo An 
·­

page 12 The Observer. KOSOVO CRISIS 
¦ YUGOSLAVIA 
Yugoslavia: Attacks complete, 
refugees should return home 
Associated Pre» struck an oil storage depot early Friday in Smederevo, about 18 miles past of Belgrade, set­BELGRADE ting it ablaze. 
Yugoslavia urged refugees to return home In addition, Studio B television said NATO Thursday, declaring "peace has prevailed in planes were "active" on Orthodox Good Friday Kosovo" and saying its 14-month war against over the Belgrade area and around two towns, ethnic Albanian separatists was over. But Uzice and Pozega, about 60 miles to the south. Western officials feared those -------------Earlier in the evening, thou-same refugees would be used Kosovo Roundup sands chanting "Yugoslavia' as human shields against April 8 Yugoslavia!" gathered on two NATO attacks. ~ NATO attacks major bridges in Belgrade and 
NATO jets unleashed fierce one in Novi Sad to serve as vol-attacks late Thursday and .r-'F,.,._.,_·,:.,~~' 50Ml.tes . unteer "'human shields" early Frida;;, against .rl'i',. ~ \,,,. !iQKm against attacks. Yugoslavia, even though a for-· > Spyros Kyprianou, currently
\;\ \ 
mer Cypriot president arrived cfloA+tA . ~'-;""' .· . ROMANIA the speaker of the Cypriot par-in Belgrade to try to win free-·•"" ~ Vo1voduu ""'· liament, said he planned tu 
d ll S' "". ' . ,., J 1 P d
dom for three capture . . · 't.J,1.. -;;{!!:lgrad!? meet Yugos av rcsi ent
1 soldiers. A hard-line Serbian -:: . 1 '-.,....,,,... \,.,,,,. "'\..._ /',. Slobodan Milosevic on Friday vice premier, however, ruled ~ 1 \_, ..!'-' and that the Americans might out any release as long as the . gl., 11,'f. YUGOSLAVIA \.1' be freed during thr long NATO bombardment contin-~w \:, S,1tbia j ·~ Orthodox Easter weekend. He 
ued. ~ i \\¢: ' '· called on NATO to reciprocate 
On thA 16th night of tbn U.S.-, . .,r·v ,/" 1!;~-J}* \ with a cease-fire over the holi­led air assault, hopes for the /J ,,\~ ~ ~ "'\ day, something the alliance has prisoners' release were mixed 1_j ~., .. . . refused. NATO had arranged with concern over thousands of , Montenegro ,,., Pristina .,~:;. for safe passage for ethnic Albanian refugees ') . c; ~ • '·· ·• I ii: Kyprianou's flight. whose fate was unknown a day ,/l~'.'.'•f<osovo:il-. ,' . '., i3 Vice Premier Vojislav Seselj, after Yugoslavia sealed off its ·~, · l,\ .~~. ~E..,.,.,.,_·"'1-!;. ~ • leader of the influential Serbian borders and stopped their ,·/ AU3Al'M \ r/' ~ACEOOMA ·~1 Radical Party, told reporters
,~~" )........ ', Hight out of Kosovo. AP Graphic Thursday that releasing the The Yugoslav government, Americans was "out of the 
y

which says it is observing a question." 
< ave h¢ert

unilateral cease-fire in Kosovo since Tuesday for U.S. State Department spokesman James Rubin to·•···•llnknownOrthodox Easter. claimed the refugees were vol-said only an unconditional release would be nterior 'Ministeruntarily heading back to their homes in the acceptable. "Any attempt to use this as a bar­
anoc S'aid.

province. gaining chip is both illegal and immoral," he 
tlonal .... •agencies

Shortly after 10 p.m., air-raid sirens sounded in said. 
decision to clear

Belgrade, as well as Novi Sad, Nis, Kragujevac President Clinton insisted that J\iATO can still 
enclave, a muddy

and Cacak. heralding yet another night of win in Kosovo without sending in ground troops, :re refugees hadattacks. and expressed hope Thursday that the three ser­food, dean• waterThe state-run Tanjug news agency said at least vicemen would be freed. 
s; ijany< criticized

seven missiles struck the center of Kragujevac, "We would like to see the servicemen released 
ptness ofthe clear~

55 miles southeast of Belgrade, including the because they never should have been detained in ever,Zastava auto factory. Tanjug also said NATO jets the first place," Clinton said. 
Notre Dame Community Reaching out to the Kosovar Refugees ..... 
Donations will be collected at Campus Ministry: 103 Hesburgh Library 112 Badin Hall 
All donations including the collections from the Masses at the Basilica on Sunday, April 18, will be sent to the Red Cross and Catholic Relief Services. 
I¦
0MPUS 
f\111NISTRY 
Friday, April 9, 1999 The Observer• NEWS page 13 
¦ MALAYSIA
¦ BELARUS 
Authorities arrest candidate 
Associated Press 
MINSK 

Authorities charged a Belarusian opposition leader Thursday with nrnhnzzlmncnt and abuse of office, a month bdore n presidential election in which he planrll1d to run. 
Former Prime Ministor Mikhail Chigir was arrested April l. thn day al'ter he was rngistered as a candidat.e in presidential elections that the opposition is hoping to hold in May. 
Policn said Chigir is suspected of embe21Jing $1 million during his t1-mure at Belagroprom Bank. a large privato bank that he headed before he was a.p°pointed prime minister in 1994. 
Chi).,'ll' rllsigned a.'> premier in the fall or 1996 to protest 
President Alexander Lukashenko's move to rewrite the Bclarusian Constitution, extending his term until 2001 and calling off presidential elec­tions th11t had been scheduled for May 1999. 
Lukashenko also ousted the popularly elected parliament, replacing it with a body of his supportflrs. 
Earlior this year, members ot' tho disbanded parliament formed an alternative electoral commission and plan to hold 1~ presidential election May 16, despite a ban by Lukashenko. Chigir registered as a candi­datn. 
Since Chigir's resignation, prosecutors have floated allega­tions that in the early 1990s he illegally 'gave a Canadian firm a $1 million loan that was never returned. Rut prosecutors took 
Mysterious disease confounds doctors
no formal action until this month. 
Chigir has repeatedly said that dozens of checks had revealed nothing illegal about the loan. 
Meanwhile, another official accused of wrongdoing disap• pea.red while under house arrest, officials said Thursdav. 
Tamara. Vinnikova, the for­mer head of the Belarusian national bank, had been kept under guard in her apartment in the capital, Minsk, since November 1997. She disap­prared Wednesday, said Alexei Taranov, spokesman for the prosecutor's office. 
Vinnikova is accused of unspecified wrongdoing during her tenure as head of a com­mercial bank before her appointment to head the nation• al bank in September 1995. 
Power plant explosion kills two 
Assm:iatcd Press 
T/\Ml'A 
/\ thundProus oxplosion rocked a power plant Thursday morning, killing Lwo workers and injuring 49 p<'ople, thrnn critically. 
Tho hlasl tor<' a hugn suction l'rom a building holding tlw six coal-fired gen11rators at the Tampa El11ctric Co. plant on the odge or Tampa Bay, two miles from downtown. Tho Pxplosion was beard at least :i5 miles away. 
"I thought I was going t() nwPt. my maknr or go to lwll. and il made nm wanl to get right with c;od," said Holrnrt Worlny, u worknr who nSt'.apnd injury. 
/\ lnak of hydrognn gas was lwlinvml to have ra11sPd tlw blast, which happ1•np<J as contrac­tors ll\stPd a ge1wrator following routirrn rn a i11 t c n a 11 c 11 , sheriff" s do pu ties said . llydrogcn is used ao,; a coolant for tlrn genera­tors. 
Stcv(~ Jenkins, a spokPsrnan for tlrn electric company. said t!w blast clamagl'ri just 01w of tlw generators. 
The body of' Johnny Bass, 52, who worked for a contractor hired to give the unit its spring tune-up, was pulled from rubble. Another worker who suffered burns, Edward Barker, 57, died at a hospital. 
Thirty-nine of the injured were taken to the hospital. Many of' those hurt suffered cuts and smoke inhalation. 
The plant, with a work force of about 250, was shut down after the blast. Jenkins said TECO would have to assess the damage before deciding when to !ire up the plant again. 
Electrical service to customers was nol interrupted. 
TECO supplies pownr for 500,000 customers. The plant accounts !'or about one-third of the utility's generating capacity. 
"I dnfinitely heard a first explosion. small like a sonic boom, and then this horrendous explosion," Bill Simmons, who lives a row milfls away, told TV station WTVT. "With all this tnrrorism going on and everything. I didn't know what happened. whether some­body had set off a bomb hero or what." 

r 
COM£ otJ OOWN! 
Po.ngbom Hall Presents.,, 
1he Pric:e Is Risht 
WIN GREAT PRIZES! ATV, STEREO, CORDLESS PHONE, GIFT CERTIFICATES. AND MANY MOR£! 
PLAY PLINKO THE GOLF GAME. PUNCH oun SPIN THE BIG WHEELJ 
So.turdo.y, Aprif lo Ub,ary Auditorium 
8:00 PM 
Chances: ljf3 or 2j$S 
Al! proflfs will beneflf +he Gn~ce Communify Cenfer 

Associated Press 
KUALA LUMl'UH 

/\ tropical virus that has killed dozens of people in Malaysia is the lirst of its kind and virologists are stumprid as to how it spreads, an American health official said today. 
Nine scientists f'ri>m the United States and other experts from Australia, Taiwan and Japan arrived in Malaysia several weeks ago to help the Southeast Asian country det11r­mine the nature of the virus bnlieved to be spreading from pigs to humans. The outbreak has killed 90 people. 
"This is a new, previously unrecognized virus found in humans," Tom Skinner, a spokesman for the U.S. Centers of Disease Control and 
Prevention in Atlanta told The Associated Press by telephone. 
"This virus has  never  been  
seen before."  
The scientists have  been  

trnmping through pig pens and farming communities where the deadly virus first appeart'd, wearing gloves, gowns and battery-operated respirators while visiting the worst-hit areas, 
~we don't know if it's highly infectious. We don't know how people are being infected," Skinner said. "It doesn't appear, right now, that this is being transmitted from person to person, but we're still not going to rule that out." 
Government health experts initially said the outbreak begun with the deaths of 15 people last Octolrnr who suc­cumbed to the Japanese encephalitis virus, which is transmitted by the Culex mos­quito. These findings were con­f'i rme d by World Health Organization officials from Japan who came to help inves­tigate. 
But in late Fnbruary, tlrn number of deaths among vil­lagers and farmers in tho hog­rearing district of Bukit l'elandok in cnntral Negeri Sembilan jumped dramatically, prompting health olTicials, to snnk further help. 
/\bout 70 people dind i11 a month, including pig !'armers who received a vaccine for the .Japanese encephalitis virus. 
Malaysian virologists 11cw to the United States on March 17 with samples. Lab analyses quickly proved that thn virus wasn't Japanese nnccphalitis. lnstnad, it resembled a very rarn Ilnndra virus, first d11l11ct­ed in Australia in 1<JC)4. 
Symptoms are the same for 

both viruses -high rever. aches, eventual coma and death. 
The CDC finding plunged Malaysia into furtlwr confu­sion. Pig farmers desertnd tlrnir homes after police cordonnd off their villages. To curb tlw out­break, soldiers dressed like astronauts swept through a hair-dozen pig-farming dis­tricts in an attempt to slaugh­ter a targeted l million pigs. 
Malaysians havn been IPft wondering which virus is which. A 24-hour government hot line set up Wednesday pro­vides detailed information on the llcndra virus. It encour­ages all workers on pig farms -the only victims of the virus so far -to wash their hands with soap and water aftnr han­dling pigs. 
"But it's not llendra," insist­ed CDC spokosman Skinner today. "It's a llnndra-like virus, and it has a high mortality rate." 

2P.M. SUNDAY APRIL 11. 1999 ANNENBERG AUDITORIUM : fHE SNITE MUSEUM OF ART ' 
:TICKETS. $10 GENERAL ADMISSION $8 ND/SMC COMMUNITY WITH 1.D. $6 SENIOR CITIZEN $3 STUDENT 
I

TICKETS AVAIIABLE IN ADVANCE Al THE lAFDRTUNE BOX OFFICE, 219.631.8128 1FOR MORE INFORMATION, PlfASE CAU 219.631.6201 • 


VIEWPOINT 
page 14-----------------------
-------------------Friday, April 9, 1999 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICI'.: P.O. Box Q, Norre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
GARRY TRUDEAU 

1999-2000 GENERAL BOARD 
l'.D!TOR-!N-CHIE~ Michelle Krupa 

MANAGING En1Ton Bus1Nr.1s MAf>AGER 
M. Shannon Ryan Dove Rogero 
/1.sSISTAN'r MANAGING EnrroR bura l'erdle 

Nrws EDITOR.. . ....... Tim Lo.gar, J\JJVER.Tl')ING MAN.\GF.R. .... Bryan l.urz V1t:."WPOINT EDIT'OR.,,... ,,.....Collc:en Gaugl1ien Av DESIGN f\..fA.,\'ACER .. . ....•. Kcnnc:th Ke-aTncy Srous EonoR..........................Brian Kessler Sv,nM~ MANAGER........................ Michad R"m SCENf EDITOR ......•.......••......Mich,el Vanegas CONTROLl.£R ..................................Timorhy Lme S~INI MAkV's Eo1roK ..•.••Colleen McC:irmy GRAPHICS EDITOR..............................Joe Mueller PHOTO EDITOR ...........••.•••..••... Kevin Dolum WEB ADMINISTRATOR....................... Erik Kushto 
The Ob!.erver is rhr indcpen<lenr newspaper published by the 5tuik1,(:; of the Univetsity of Norn: Oaine du Lac: and Salm Mary's C.ullcg(". Ir J,oo n.or nt'c:c;s~ily rede:ct the pt1liciei. ofthc m.imininr:ition ofc-itht"r insunulon.. The news~ reponcd ~ acc:ur.udy ;1.nJ objeccivcly as pai.ib.l~. U!\ilgucd ffli.wri.;ih, repro.cm rhc upimon of i:hc m•jonry of lht.: Ed,ror-in~Chief, M.;nu.ging Edirn,. A.i...~i:<.l.lm M.an•gtug Edi.or .tn.J dcp.urmcm e<liro,.s. Commentaries, letters .,_nJ columns prD-<"tu th(: .-jews ofthe auihon; .an<l nor nrccss..rily rhosc. of The Observer. Vicwpoim spaa: is av.UlahJe to all mcmb~r~ of the Norr.: DamcfSaim Mar,·'s t.0n1muniry am! co JII rc:aJer:.. The free txpn:s.sion ofv.tf)·ing opinlon.s ~-h tough letters is cncour.igcd. 
Contacting The Observer 
F.diror~m-Chlet 631-4542 Ofl1cc Manager/General lnfo,mation 631-7471 M.inag.ing Ed.itor/A5~istanl ME 631-4541 l\usinm Oflke 6Jl-5313 News 631-532J i\dverri,in~ 631-6900/8840 Viewpoint 631-5303 Sysrcms/Wcb Admini,rraror 631-8839 Spons 631-4543 Fax 6316927 S<:c:ni: 631·4540 Ad E·Mail obsmer@darwin.cc.n<l.eJu Suinr Mary's 631-432,; News E-Mail obscrvcr.ob,news.l@nd.edu Phom 631-8767 Virwpoinr E-Mail observer.viewpoint. I @nJ,1.,du 
¦ Goo N' LIFE 
Culture Shock in Canada 
Last summer. while driving through the Ontario When groups from the various churches sit and Quebec provinces of Canada, I experienced down at a common table to discuss matters vital culture shock in many different ways. I realized, to each faith, it can be much the same. Catholics too. that this culture shock -also experienced say one thing, Methodists say another. Jews have between members of different religions -may be a distinct view, Muslims have their own. It is like just one of the obstacles in peoples coming talking in different languages to each other with­together to live in peace. out a translator. 
As my car moved towards What it all comes down to, Ottawa, Canada's capital, I though, is belief in God. The began noticing signs in both fact that no two people can English and French. I pick up the Scriptures and
Julie A.
thought this was rather find an identical meaning in accommodating. since the a story or passage makes it city lies just across the river clear that God speaks to each from the French-speaking of us in a unique way. We 
Ferraro 
Quebec. arc created to be unique. 
The drivers in the city And nothing is wrong with wcrn accommodating, too, that. which helped this out-of-towner navigate conrus­For this reason, we should not be afraid to ing streets. In the park on Canada Day. I, along experience the "culture shock" of other religions. with the 100,000 others present. was Even ifwe don't understand what offered a Canadian flag to wave. [ 1"\)Q ~ someone believes, we can often got to enjoy fireworks from the c',~I n ~ learn from an intelligent, non­roof of an apartment buildini, " belligerent exchange. Just as and shared drinks at an I learned a bit of French authentic Irish pub on the from my swing through
0 

corner. f couldn't have -,, Quebec,; There may be askPd for a more restful ~ some common time. -,--ground" -a popular 
Then I crossed the term these days ­Ottawa Hiver into that will bring us Quebec. No more closer together in English on the road understanding. signs. Knowing little And, in the same French. I had to guess way I survived my trip at a few things. ln to Canada (complete Montreal, I tried to order with the sight of hot air a cheeseburger at a balloons shaped like Burger King: interesting ~ maple leaves, a Royal project and something taken .,.., Canadian Mounted Police for granted by many people in :;:---.,J>.. officer on a horse), we will the States. When the counter per-c.JAII..~ survive the differences in rcli­son doesn't speak English, it can be an ~ gious observance and faith. There is adv<mture in fast food. beauty in each and every one of them, after 
A similar incident transpirnd while trying to buy all. If we maintain an open mind, such a "culture grod!rics in Quebec City. Handing the clerk a shock" can help our own relatiouship with God. $100 bill (Canadian), she didn't know what to do. I didn't know what to say. To say the least, the Julie A. Ferraro's column appears every other people in line behind me got rather impatient by Wednesday. The views expressed in this column the time this poor woman figured out how much are those ofthe author and not necessarily those change to give me. ofThe Observer. 
MORe84ua/TFROM 7Jf!J 
"Pf?OC/:;%Nf{ljf<e ?WAYA9 
~l(J.8{JGl-l,i;z;;tl~ 
HIS PRl?.3!/?8VT!Al 1310... I 

INSlfJER'? APE 8e7T!NG THe 78XAN eo/8/<NO/<. CAN PUTANY 'IOIJIHFU£.. INOl9CReTIOl-6 Bi3fl/N'{J HIM, BUT THe Q(.)[3,TION taJM!? 
/.N?6e-M1ArtPH3-CAN'Tr 
. GI~ 
/,f/HO Wlt.l M1et<Gf: F-R(Yl1 me MIR& OFSliXUAlM~CARJH'll9rl 
THAT "/H8 G.QI?HA~ CREiA7W ~ 
fOR ll!ielF~IA/HO NOW ElbC()Mf3G p 
~------!<ERIN1fXXJ? t 

herty Untested Head Coach 
·· al9JPnus who only contribute$ the pare minimum required >'t!ilrxuuntain my football tiGket eligibility, I recognize that I to complajn about therecent hiring of Matt Doherty as 
.• . d.idMichaelB. M.cCaskey,thepresident of the Chicago tunning theJrish athletic department? I have no idea what spired in the Rick Majerus fiasco, but I find it hard to 
thathls admission ofcheating on exams while at Marquette solely disqualified him from the running. After all, star wide receiver Lake. Dawson wa.<; allowed to return to Notre Dame in the early '90s after having someone take an exam for him. (She happened to have got• tenJ00 percent, which. l think, should have earned Lake a lifetime sus­pension for stupidity.) But poor Mr. Dawson was given a second chance because he was just a boy at the time of his transgression -ofcourse, so was Mr. Majerus, whose major mistake apparently was not cheating in colle!{e, but admitting it as an adult. I wonder ifNotre Dame will now 

•· he~n holding it'> graduates to the same stringent standards. Will people ayel'lrred as grovvn-ups be driven from the Golden Dome also? · Debartolo.for instance. Would the University reject another 
d~nation from ''Casino I!d(iie',>" As if. } ll. aboutMajerus. There were plenty of other good. candi­
i > ...· JJ,re currently head coach1:1s at Division l schools. Oh, Iforgot 
;:;FigJ.ltingirish coaching descriptions now state "Inexperience pre­fen;ed." Can somebody please tell me when Notre Dame instituted it'> Heall Coacmng Internship Program? Three times in the past four years, Notre Dame has hired individuals (Dave Poulin, Bob Davie and Doherty) iaddng head coaching experience at any level. Clearly, the new polict worked in the case of Poulin, who led the hockey team into the Top 10 this past season. While the jury may still be out on Davie, I can think of approximately 11 million reasons why it was foolish to throw an untest­ed C(.)mmodity into the hottest seat in college football. Better safe than ~f{Y, lthi.nk the saying goes. (Speaking of Davie, funny that he man­
ll<i to.g-et llired despite several skeletons in his coaching closl1t. Maybe \lotlld have called Bob to find out how he dodged those bullets 
... . . · 
.aM cp.dlpletely -..vronttMaybe Matt Doherty is the ~8Jl. h9 ~i!i ~ay "grow:irlg J.lfl !ri a (.;atholic family in New younaturaUyfollowNotre Dame." Funny, then, that he 
. ... •wn Digger's scholarship offer and went to North Carolina.i B.t1t Us~1Llf Coach Doherty brings us back to the NCM tournament.,I'llpe the first to die my hair gray in his honor. Not that gray, but pretty 
Jamie Reidy, '92 April 7, 1999 Mode,10, California 

• Quon OF THE DAY 
, There are three ways to 
get something done: 

Do it yourself, hire some­
one or forbid your kids to 
do it.' 
-Monta Crane 


VIEWPOINT 

_________________________ page 15
hid.1y, April 9, 1999--------------------­
¦ Tm: COMMON Gooo 
The Maximum Living Wage, Part II 
Last ti1n1• 1sh11w1•d I.hat 011n sperifica­tion ol"C:atholic sodal lnuching in rnsponst1 to rnpitalism is tlw maximum living wagn -tlrnn· an• cm11TPL1i lim ils to what wn can accumulall' liir our own 1·ons11111plion. Tlw kny crn11:t>pL lrnn1 is that ol' U1n univ,•rs,il dl'sti11ati1111 of' 1TPat­1•d goods. c;ml's 1-r111ttio11 is mnanl. l'or all to sham. Tlw k,iv distinction is lmtw,inn till' right to pri\',~ll• prnpnrty and tlw 11ppropriah• USP of that pro1wrty. In .John l'a11l !l's worrls, 1•vp11 "prival" prnpnly is und,·r 'sot:ial mortgage•.'" (Soflid/.1u!o lld Sril'irtlis. :i I l Tlw I.ask of tllis column is lo dPtail tlw pr1•risl' nwaning and implii:a­lions of lllf' nrnximurn livinj.{ wagn. 
Tl11' tirst point Llial it is important to lmvn clmtr is ti-tat tlw maximum living wag.• clews not ilsP!f limit what one Parns or f'\'1'11 what Olli' owns. What it lin1its is how ,mwh ol' what BIH' Parns or owns onn usl's for orw·s own r.onsumplion. 01111 can Pal"ll lw11 million dollars a y1mr or hav1• a lll'l worth of' $10 million, a'.o; long as thn USP of most of' that inconw and wea Ith is put lDward 11mding tlw ll!'Pds ol' pnoplo who an• lnss \\'I'll off. For inslancP. sonw­11111' might giVP Ui ofthn two million dol­lars to a 11011-prnlit agPncy that rNrains 1wrsons who haw lost thdr jobs. 
Or, in tlw ollwr ('.aSP, a pnrson with a nPl worth of$10 million might own a rnmpnny that ilsl'lf does llw training. ThP 1rnrpos1• of tlw rnmpany is not tlw maximizatinn of' profit hut lhn (!ducalion and training of' Lill' un<'mployed so that 1111•~. l.lH1, might find l'ullillnwnt through ,wtiw partil'ipation in P<·onomic lifo. 
This wo11lcl lw mi insta,wP of' tlw pn•fpr­1•11tial option l'or llw poor in tlw form of' an allirmatiw action hiring policy tha1 favors pPrs1111s who do not havn work at llw linll' or tlw joh illlPrViPIV. 
In tlw rnlrulation of' tlw maximum liv­ing wngt!, llwrPfon,. incomP and Wl'allh dilfon•tH·ns. bv Llwmsdvns. ar<' not sulli­riPnl to rnakn.C'ondusiv11 moral judg­nwnl'i. To put it. anotlwr way, unlik<• in :\larxisl analysis, lo mak.-money -and <'Vl'll Lo mak;~ a grnat dnal 111' it:_ is not an int.rinskally evil ac:t. 
llownvPr, wlwn onn combines tho !'ac­tors 111'vast inconw and WPalth clilfor­1mrns with the low incidrn1ce of' activity such as that clnscrihnd abovn on the part of' tlw w1•althy. condusivn judgmenL'i arn nrnritt>cl. Thn accumulation of'wnallh may not bl' intrinsically evil. but the low i11cid1•11rP of' the right usn or private prop­Prty suggl'SL'i that Pvil is nmwthel<iss very dillinilt to avoid. 
ll1·n•. Catholic social lnaching is dirPctly in lin11 with wdl-k1mw11 words spoknn roughly 2,000 y1•ars ago. "I low hard it is for thost• who havP wnalth lo entm the kingdom of'C:od. For it is 1,asi11r for a rnnwl lo pass through tlrn nye of' a nnedlu than for a rich p1irson lo entPr Um king­dom of Cod" (L11kn 18:24-25). 
Tlw second point lhat needs lo bt! dear is that lhn stalP is not the first mnans of' assuring that Catholics in tlrn uconomic sm:tor livn within Llw limits of' lhn maxi­mum living wagn. To appnal first lo tho stall' would violate thn social doctrine's prindphi of subsidiarity. Always present but first dnlirwrl in modnrn Catholic social tmu:hing in Pius Xi's Quadra_q,isimo Anno, thn princ.iplu of' subsidiarity regulates the interaction of assorialions and institutions ll'i soci1:ty seeks to meet tlm dmnands of tlw common good. 
Properly undurslood, llrn principle cuts in two dirnctions. First of all, it carries a pnisumptiun agninst direct involvnment by largri-scale and rPmoln institutions. Tlw rolP of' 1.t.rgl'J' institutions is lo sup­port, not rPplacn, tlw smaller and n1om proxinmw rnws. In fact, the root nwaning 111' IJw Latin word s11hsidiwn is "8uppm·t." Tlw largnr institutions have dillirnlty dis­ct•ming and rl)sponding to Lim uniqun lt'xlun•s of lif'e in its sp<•cilkity. If they usurp Lim pr,m,gativc of' Lhn smallnr. mon, inlimaLP assnriations, tlw rosult can Im tl11, opposite 11fwlmt is intc11d1,d. llmwwr. suhsidiaritv also allirrns that Uw roll' of' larg11r insiituLions in tlw f"orrn of' supporl is positiv,• and 1wr1•ssary. 111 l'n1·t. in PXtri•mp siltmtions. llw hu-gi•r. 
morn n•moto institutions can intl'rvene instance. high school may b,, minimum. dirm:tl_y, but care ncnds to bo taken that I lowevcr, givfm the importanc1) of' ,iduca­this bn a shorl-tnrm remedy. or ulse the tion in a post-industrial economy, college smallnr. morn proximate associations will may bn rPquirnd for a morn fully partic­atrophy. ipating lilc. 
With rngard Lo Uw economic order, the A similar convorsation must take place sta!.11 is lo support a wdl-functioning mar­with rngard to housing, health care. ket. and it does so b_y providing a favor­lcisurr., and so forth. Thr. attnmpt is to rn­able atmosphern and by appualing to nco-cstablish Urn thrne-levPl map or material 11ornic rights to 
================= goods ol' 1) necessity,
form what .John 2) substance. and 3) l'aul ll calls "a superi1uity discuss11d strung juridirnl last time, and to recov­f'ramnwork" lo sel er some snnsf' of' sub­
Todd David limits on lht\ logic stancf'/supertluity dis­,rncl dfocts of' Llw tinction so that the markl'1 temptation to always
Whitmore
(Centesimus have more can Im ,\n11us, 42). curbed. Secondly, W(! 
In clirn situa------------------would need to cali­lions, th1irn ran bl' dired intnrwmtion; brate the cost of a life of' substance to the modPrn Catholic social teaching since thu size and any spedal needs (e.g. wheel­Snrnncl Vatican cmmril has explicitly sup­chair acc1,ss) of tho family in question portnd statn 11xpropriation of' private together with its geographical location. (A property. l'opn Paul VI writes, "If certain house in South Bend, for installl:e, does landed nstatns imp11dP the general pros­not cost what its counterpart docs in N<•w ptirity lwcause they are extensivn, York). Publications like the cost ofliving unused, or section of the poorly used, ''Places flat.eel or because Almanac" tlwy bring already carry hardship to out this latter peoples or task. art> detrimen­Determining tal to the the maximum inlerPst of' tlrn living wage rnuntry. th(\ 
would be an <:ommon 
ongoing mat­good sornn­
ter becausP of tinws ~ 
shifting idnus dnmands 
of' what l".On­their 1:xpro­
stitutes sub­


priation" stance (here (l'opulorum we must he l'rogressio, wary ol"lhe 24; cf. also, Gauclium el 
.n~ ~~~ii~~~:~i~\o 
Spes, 71). 

make every
~arL 

ln short, objflcl a tlm principln rnquired one of subsidiari­for living) and ty indicates Ithe changing lhal the first Icost of living. appeal to the , Just where, wealthy is to 
\ _/ I+h ..ll-_ 1in dollar
their benefi­cence, as long 
we a w '-, I \ ~~~":i~bt~t~~afl as this is 
askflda understood Catholic as an workcr-asso­ernpowering dated col­b1mcliccnrn league that that fosters question with actiw parlic-regard to a ipation in tlrn ~~ family of four 
0]),1 
~~;~:~;<\1 I" ~ / ,'I f te~~~Wc
~~ther than ongoing ~ ~ replied that clepcncl<mcc. It. , ;;i,,,# .!, $ for the sake ol' Again, cduca-'l'f l' ~.!, introducing Lion and job "f ~ the concept of training arc .t. \ '1 a maximum ncrnssary _. A !t. _ ,t.{ .J, $ .t, 'ii where there supplenrnnLo; ff l.f .{ ~ ~ might be to meeting .! ~ .t, ..f, l:, strong rcsis­immediate xJx. .,U, 1 ..(_ ..,, • J. t tance lo it, WC 
material X ..( ~ A -4' should "Start nPods. The -_t. J, A ).. high: stat11 can • X ~ f ~~ $250,000 "support" this ~•0wift~~l;JI::~ annual
¦~ 
activity, for ~ salary." I instance, by agreed providing tax ($200,000 breaks for '-----------------------~was the num­charitabln giving. If the well-off are not her I had in mind), though I thought that forthcoming, tlrnn the stale can intercede. the debate would begin lo get substantive Whatevor the spedlic social mechanism around the $100,000 mark. for aiding others to move from marginal-In the absence of an already existing ization to participation, the activity is a church and society conversation on the rnquirPmm1t -not a pick-and-choose maximum living wage, Lhesn numbers option -for Catholics and is ono key seem a good high-water mark from indicator of wht1lher they arn practicing which Lo start. To set parameters on the their faith. conversation, howev<T, il is also impor-
The 1mxt qu1~stion that arisHs is that of Lant to set the low-water mark. The uni-Llrn dollar amount of' the maximum living vorsal destination of goods requires that wagtt To dntnrrninn Llw amount with any we consid<'r all p<·rsons, and the abovn nxa<·titudc. wo would first ncnd an ecclo-numbers soom to reflect, at best. only an sial and broader social convnrsation on Americnn conWxt. In a world cnntnxt. tho what m11r1~ than tlw minimum basics is numbPrs would have to be lower. h1rleP<I. r1!quirl'd for a morP fully goorl lilii. For given ext,•nsiv!' and l'Xtn•nie need in llw world as a who!P, tho minimum (nPcPssi­ty) and maximum (substance) living wages may well bo 01m and the same. 
Thrnn objections might hi' raisml con­cerning the maximum living wagn. Thn first is that it does not lake nrnrit into con­sideration. PPrsons who work hard. tlw argunmnt gofls, desen,e whatover tlwy can narn. A msponsn from tho pnrsp1w­tive of Catholic social teaching would answN that thPr11 is in tho maximum liv­ing wage a conr.ept of' nwril. Tlrn dilfo1·­onco is that the merit -what one gains -derives l'rom using l'or others all income and w,mlth abovn tlrn maximum. 11cm again.Catholic teaching is in knnping with our 2,000-ycar old sourcn: "SPII your possossions and give alms: provide your­solves with purses that do not grow old, with a lr<'asuro in tho hoawns that do<'S not l'ail, wlrnre no thiof' approaches and nu moth destroys. 
For whnn' your troasurn is, liHm' will your heart b<; also." (Luk<: 12::n-34; cf'. also 6:24-26; 12: 13-21: 16: 13). What onn cams is the privilege of' using onn's wealth for others. 
Even hero, thcrn are guidelinns: Care must hn lakcm not to uso tho occasion lo draw attcmtion to onnsclf (Matthnw 6: 1-41 and one must give to those most in need. Not only do the wnll-off give a lessor pro­portion of their income than the poor ­il">elf' a scandal -but, in thn words of' the Franciscan ethicist Kenneth Ilimes, "tlw philanthropy pracliwd by thn alllimnt' often gons lo institutions which bnndit Lhemselvns rathnr than thn lt!SS wnll-1111"' ("The lrwxtricable Link of Charity and Discipleship,''Origins (Fnbruary 20, 19')7): :'j78). In Catholic tnad1ing, wn have thn privilegn and rnquimnwnt of' giving woalth away, but not to anyone W<' please. This is bPcausn tlm wealth is not ours in the first place. Civing to the poor is giving their wealth bat:k to thnm. Hncall Paul Vi's quot<! of Ambrose. "You am not making a gif'l ol'your own possessions lo the poor pnrson. You aro handing ovnr lo him what is his. For what has been given in common for tho usn of' all, you have arrogatnd to yourself." 
The second objection is that capitalism is dynamic, and llmrefore it is not possi­ble to set a maximum living wage. We have seen, however, the various factors that must enter into its calculation. It is no morn complex than figuring tho mini­mum living wagn for dilforent familial and gP-ographical contoxts. It is notn<,yor­thy that Lhe owners of' sweat.'ihops, in an attempt to dt11lecl the moral qunstion, am appealing to the !'act ol' dynamic capital­ism to claim that the minimum living wage is impossible to compute. Tho objection against a maximum wage on the ba-,is of incomputabi!ity attempts a similar deflection. 
The third objection is that because cap­italism is dynamic, we ought not calculate a minimum wage. This is becausn the sP-lf-inten~st -inde<)d, the avarice -of capitalisLo; has the nllcct of bcmelitting others. Now we am back to William Simon's "Grned is not a sin." In tho tnr­minology of conlP-mporary moral theory, this is a form of' consequcmtialism. It is a particularly insidious form becausn it attempts to valorize vice, and it is debat­able wlmtlmr it succoeds nv<m on its own terms. 
I have set out tlw broad paramnwrs of the maximum living wage. Now it is up to Michael Novak and ollmr Catholics who claim moral seriousness to join thn con­versation or else jnttison any prnlcmsions of being committnd to Catholic social teaching on the limiL'> of' private propnrty, 
My next column {the last of the year) will adclr!'SS the thr<)n ways -intl'llnctu­al, ccclesial, and rhetorical -that Novak attempts to avoid accountability to Catholic doctrine. 
Todd !)avid Whitmore is an associate professor fo the Iheolorl!f cfopart mn1t. I!is column appears every olher Friday. 
The l'iews expressed in this column an• those ofthe author and riot necessarily those of The Obsl'ruei·. 
E D
w ceneN 
O 
THE 
Friday, April 9, 1999

BSERVER 
:t Assistant Managing Ediror 
it 4: 
The 41st annual Collegiate Jazz 
Festival kicks off tonight at 7:30 p.m.'1~ in Stepan Center with the hometown~i band, the Notre Dame Jazz ~ EnsPmble, under the direction ot' 
Father George Wiskirchen. 


tempo swing piece featuring the trombone section. Lane Weaver and Jeff Spoonhower play featured solos in this piece. 
The ballad "Skylark," a jazz stan­dard, is their next piece. It features Keith Syska with a mellow saxophone sound. "Skylark" is followed by "Setting Calvin's Waltz," a gospel 
favorite Spoonhower. Guitar player;.; Brenden Mowery also takes a solo. , The Ensemble closes with I, "Moanin'," a gospel-in!1uenced bop i.~ !,une that features some group •.•.! 1mprov. , . !1 At 10:30 p.m. on h1day, the rJ Judges' Jam begins. This year's ii judges are saxophonist Grog Tardy, ;:: trumpet player Michael Mossman, ''. pianist Benny Grnen, drummer Jeff] H~p1ilton and b,~ssist ~:huck Israels. I 
I ardy, a native of New Orleans, ;"!: began his musical career on classical 1',1. clarinet, but soon switched to jazz saxophone. His music is heavily .,. 
influenced by the legendary John wl· 
Coltrane. Tardy records with the , record label Impulse! and has just 
released his first album with that label. The album, entitled .· 
"Serendipity," is a combination of be-;: bop and blues. ' Mossman has been playing trumpet on the international scene since age . 
17. Born in Philadelphia, he attended :] Oberlin College and Conservatory l!t and graduated with degrees in soci-· ology/anthropology, orchestral trum­pet and jazz composition. lie took his master's from Rutgers and is active in music education. 
Mossman played the llorace Silver Quintet for several years and has [;) also played with such people and ··· groups as Dizzy Gillespie, Slide Hampton, the Charles Mingus Orchestra and the Count Basie Orchestra. His most recent album, "Mama Soho," was released in June .,t:
1

1998. 
Green, played with Art Blakey, I Betty Carter and Freddie Hubbard :¢ from 1983-1990. Ile moved on to j playing as a front man, and for his f' most recent album, "Kaleidoscope," Ct he recruited such jazz greats as ;;s bassist Ron Carter and drummer 't'; Lewis Nash to compliment his pianis-i tic style. < 
Drummer Hamilton is a native of ;;; Richmond, Ind. lie played with the Ray Brown Trio from 1988-1995, then left to work on his own trio. '.:: Hamilton, who began playing drums ! at age eight, has played for over 175 ~ recordings with such diverse artists '.7 as Natalie Cole, Rosemary Clooney, •··•••• Barbra Streisand and Mel Torme. His most recent recording is "Hands On." 
Israels has been a regular on the ....• jazz scene since the early 1960s. Ile i0 has played with the Bill Evans Trio, t: the Billy Harris Trio, Bud Powell and ,,, jazz legend Benny Goodman. lie has ·.; conducted shows on Broadway. writ-· ten and arranged jazz and taught jazz at Western Washington. Some of '. Israr-ds' best recordings include f' "Coltrane Time (with John ~ Coltrane)," "My Point of View (with .. llerbie llancock)" and "Live at ; Shelley's Manne Hole." 
The festival will run tonight from ,., 
7:30 p.m. until approximately 11:30 L; 
p.m. 
and Saturday from 1 p.m. to 4 ?# 

p.m. 
and 7:30 p.m. to 11 p.m. Tlrnre ;,: will be a clinic in the Notre Dame cJ: band building at 10:30 a.m. ··· Saturday. All other events take place in Stepan Center. 


Jeff Spoonhower contributed to this report. 
D

w E ceneN 
Friday, April 9, 1999 page 17 
Notre Dame Big Band 10:30p.m. Judge's Jam University of North Saxophone: Greg Tardy Florida Combo I Trumpet: Michael Mossman 
9 p.m. Crane-SUNY Potsdam Piano: Benny Green 
9:45 p.m. Central Michigan Jazz Percussion: Jeff Hamilton Percussion and Steel Bass: Chuck lsreals Drum Ensemble 
10:30 a.m. Clinics in Notre Dame Band Building, free to Louisiana State all University Combo 
1 p.m. Central Michigan 8:15 p.m. Drake University University 9 p.m. Western Michigan 
1:45 p.m. Slippery Rock Combo University 9:45 p.m. University of North 
2:30 p.m. Notre Dame Combo Florida Combo 11 
3:15 p.m. University of Michigan 10:30 p.m. Western Michigan 4 p.m. Knox College University 
-

By LAURA PETEL.LE she called the hotel they wern supposed A..,i.. 1a1u M.111.iging Editor to b11 staying in, and was told they had checked in. 
lkliind Llw sc:n1ws al Lim Coll£igiate "Actually, the hotel had pre-checked Jazz Fnstival, llwr11 is a corps of' volun­them in," she said. "They weren't there." [PPrs d.-dical11d lo making CJF hap1wn. Zimmnr finally got the judgns to the 
i\rnl none is morn dPdicatcd than Lisa fostival right as il was about to bngin. Zimnwr. Tlmy were both crabby and hungry, and 
/.i11111wr, a s1•nior. has bnPn with CJF as tlrn festival ended for the night, at si11c1i lwr l'n1shman year, and has l:30 a.m., one told her he hadn't had dmin•d Cll• a n!rnrd lhrn1\ limns. anything hot to eat all day and ho want­
"I wm1t to tlw SUB rncruitnwnt night ed somn soup. my freshman yt)ar," Zimmr\r said. "I was Zimmer drove up U.S. 31/33 looking into music in high school. so I saw CIF for soup. found a 24-bour diner and and went, 'Oh. cool!"' wnnl in to find out if they had soup. But 

l!cr f'rnslmrnn year, Zirnnrnr was on she didn't know what kind the judge thn hospitality and program commitlens. wantnd. Tlw rn•xl year, she was the chair ol' the "I ordered one or every kind or soup," c11tin• (~\Sliva!. Many of the 1mople shu led she said. "I got there [back to the hotelJ, f WPl"P junior and seniors and had been and he was fine." l() witli tlm fostival longer than she had. Another one of last year's judges, 'j 
"It was a litllt• strange !ordering bassist Charnetl Mollett, helped Zimmer i 
•·:1 

, around older pnopln!," she said. "It was a have her bnst C.IF·rnlated experience. 
1
I, [ littln _aw~,ward. I was always asking Zimmer had been watching Harry _4:j 
..

:: I fflll!SllflllS. Connick, Jr., on TV, and saw Charnett 
1; 
I "I sat at my dnsk for thrnn months not Moll'elt playing bass for him. When she The Observer/Kavin Dalum . ['.J q , knowing whnn• to lind agents' numbnrs," picked Moffett up at the airport, she Lisa Zimmer has chaired the Collegiate Jazz Festival for a record three years. In her final ;'~_:· year, she was able to bring jazz star Branford to Stepan Center Wednesday night. -"
I I I •!
',. SW SaJf. casually mentionr,d that she saw him I, 1•:ach SnplcmbcH·, Zimmer called bands. playing with Connick. Wednesday's concert. easy were very dillicult. 
i . Shci callccl judges in October. and in Moffett told her they wore playing a "Even my sophomore year I was look-For instance, hundreds of postcards N .la111111ry bngnn worrying about things concert in Normal. Ill.. the next month, ing lo do something bigger," said are sent to various colleges inviting them i,,..1 liko T-shirts and programs. As lhP elate and olfornd to gel lwr backstage passes. Zimmnr. "I've called the armed forces lo audition for the festival. ~~ of' tho festival apprnadrns, Zi11111rnr is 'Tm a huge llarry Connick, Jr,, l'an," bands in the past. Branford was touring "Every summer, I took them all home 
r; 

h11sy Sl'Hing up till' vrnnw, talking to local said Zimnmr. "And Charnetl Mollett got in uur area this voar." and spent the summer hancl-addn1ssing 11H'11ia and making last minute arrangii­us backstage! We gut to go backstage The festival this year l'oaturns saxo-tho post cards," said Zimmer. "Now mnnls. and nrncl llarry Connick, .Jr.!" pbonist Grngory Tardy, trumpet player we're putting it on the comput1ir. Tlmw 
By lwr junior y1H1r, Zimnwr had things Zimmer said the most inter<'sting part Michael Mossman, pianist Benny Green. years gave me a chance for better clli­undt!r r.onlrol. of tho job is dealing with the judges. drummer Je!T Ilamilton and Israels as ciency." "I krww whnl lo do and wlrnt not to "Smnc of these guys are old school." judges. This weekend her throe ynars or hard "This year's bem1 good -a little hec-work r.ome to a climax.
dn." sh1: said. "Blll s1mwlhing will always she said. "Tlrny've livod this jazz go wrong." lifostylo." tic, since I'm graduating in a month and "This weekend will be crazy," Zimmer ?; That war, Zin1111or dealt with what slw Last yMr. she called bassist Chuck training someom1 for next year," Zimmer said. j, 1 called l;cr ''worst C.IF expcricm:r." Israels, and his wife answnrcd the said. "I have a great cornmitteo this year Because tho CJF committee is all vol-»­"Two Inf tlw _jll(igc!s] got stuck at the phonn. Zimnrnr politely asked, "Is Mr. 
-I can delegate." unt11er, Zimmcw relies on the dndication airport," slrn said. The _judgm, ke11t trying Israels thorn''" Zimmer's fogacy is nol just threr. yr.a.rs of her committr.e members to put tlrn rJ,.:. to n~ach Zim111nr in the Student Uniou "It's Chuck, baby! This is jazz'" rr-plied of' a well-run festival, but a better-orga-festival together and make it run ~-'. Board ISl!BI ollice. hut she wasn't in thn Israels' wife. nizcd ofnce. In the past, Zimmer said, smoothly. !-.'. ollkP, and 110 onn in thf' oflice knmv how This year. Zimnrnr was tho driving since the chairperson would only be "Sunday morning is the bPst time," she [·,j 
, to lwlp thrnn. force behind bringing sax clmiring the festival for a year a time. said with a laugh, "bncause it's over." '' 
master I, Wlll'II Zimnwr finally got tlw nrnssuge, Branford Marsalis to campus for last sumo things that could have been very fa:i 
tM

!L.
r.. J..JSll l fmfiLihJ.111 MfiO aau D1Mffl\Wi\¼i~tlamffi!f.l~,~i 
page 18 The Observer• SPORTS Friday, April 9, 1999 
------------~-------­
¦ GYMNASTICS 
Moceanus reach agreement to end earnings feud 
Associared Press 
IIOUSTON 
After enormous success al a young age -followed by a high-profile rift with her parents -Olympic gold medalist Dominique Moceanu may have linally found peace. 
The 17-year-old gymnast and her par­ents have reached a confidential financial settlement and ended a protectivP order against her father. 
"This has been an Pxti-enrnly difficult time for my family, and I hope that we can now begin to move forward in sup­port of one another," Miss Moccanu said in a statPment. 
"I know that deep down my father loves me. and of course I love him, so I need to find a way in my heart to give him for­giveness. I hope there is a chance that someday things in my family can bo nor-ma! again." 
The family fight erupted publicly last Octobt'r, when Miss l\loceanu sued for her independPnce, saying her father, Dumitru Moceanu, had squandered the money she had earned in a 10-year professional career. She was declared a legal adult Oct. 29. 
Miss Moceanu's parents placed her earnings in a trust fund, which they administer. She did not have access to the trust until she turned 35. 
Her father has said all of his daughter's earnings went into building a 70,000­srp1are-f'ont gym with Miss Moceanu's blessings. He has refused to say how much the gym cost, but his attormiy Katherine Scardino said it was about $2 million. 
The gymnast sought and won a court order on Dec. 9 that kept her father at least 500 feet away after police said they were investigating Dumitru. 44, for allngedly trying to hire killers to murder two of his daughter's friends. lfo clr.nir.d tho allegation. 
The Observer acceprs classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame ofncc, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid.
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Obsei;,er reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
ILOST & FOUND I 
Lost: 100 CDs that were in a black CaseLog1c carrying case. Lost in LaFortune the night of 2/26199. Monetary reward being offered if found. No questions asked. Please call Brian at 4-1126 w/ any info. 
'REWARD! Blue LL.Bean backpack lostistolen 04/01 in parking lot bit Lyons & Morrissey. If you have it or know where it is, please follow your con­science & call 4-2900 lo return ii to its owner. THANK YOU! 
Large, double pocket L.L. Bean backpack wl Pietasters patch. $50 cash reward if returned wlcontents. No questions asked. call 634-1061 
Lost Glasses: black, metal, 
oval. Safilo frames; clip on 
sunglasses; black case 
-
If found call Paul @ 4-4765 
LOST: original music on campus. know it's here somewhere. I just haven't seen it around. If found, contact new SUB staff at 631-7757. 
WANTED 
AMERICAN FLYER trains-top dollar paid, call Dave al 273-9015 
Hotel Help Wanted 
Holiday Inn/Univ. Area needs full & part time h alp for Rest. & Bar Server, Bartender.Night Auditor.PM Van Driver,Desk Clerk.Banquet Capt & Servers.Outstanding benefits.including room discounts Apply at 515 Dix1eway North. 
Wanted: 2 room mates for 5 bed­room house on St. Peter Street. Call Tony. 634-1694 
EARN $6K·$9K/YR EXTRA! Local Area Counselors needed. Enjoy cross-cultural experiences?Support families and int'I nannies Contact Kristen 888­222-2966 knelson@app.childcrest.com 
YOUR BABY NEED A HOME? OUR HOME NEEDS A BABY! Loving married couple seeks new­born to adopt.Waiting to shower a child with lots of love & attention. Will provide strong fami­ly environment and secure financial future.All allowable medical & legal expenses paid.For more information about us.please call toll free 1-888-652-8422 Dan and Tracy 'Working through adoption attorney 
FOR RENT 
5/6 BDRM HOMES. NEAR CAM­PUS. FURN. 272-6551 $175/PERSON. 
STAYING IN SOUTH BEND FOR THE SUMMER??? Lovely five-bedroom. single family house available for sub-lease. About a mile from campus. Sale neighborhood. Clean. Two window air-c_onditioners. Washer and dryer, stove, reInge. Call 634-0562 for info. 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 
FURN. ROOM;FURN. ONE BED· ROOM APT;PRIVATE ENTRANCE.AIR, KITCHEN,LAUN­DRY,PHONE,UTILITIES INCLUD­ED,5 MINN. CAMPUS 272-0615 
2 Bdrm Apt at College Park to sub­lease for summer session. Call 4­3620. 
SUMMER SUBLEASE Upper COLLEGE PARK 2 Bdrm, A/C, wash/dryer also FURNITURE in great cond. couches. tables. beds Call 273-2917 
Summer sublease ND Apts x4415 
HOUSE:SUMMER SUBLEASE Bright. handsome 2 BR very close to Main Gate on Pokagon. AC. W&D, garage, yard, full kitchen with M/W and DW. furnished. 631-8084 
..------------, ROD STEWART 3rd ROW 
FOR SALE I """ ,... ,,,,,,, 
'-N-EW-R-at-es_P_h-on_e_C_a-rd-s--~ 
I PERSONAL 

282 min. $20 call 258-4805 . 
When you need copies . GUITAR-Fender Electric/Acoustic. We're OPENIII cut-away body, 1 yr old. $350 or 8/0. Includes case and stand. THE COPY SHOP Call Greg at 271-0138 LaFortune Student Center 
631-COPY 

Beautiful brass bed,queen size.with Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight orthopedic mattress set and deluxe Fri: 7:30am-7:0opm frame.New.never used.still in plas­Sat Noon-6:00pm tic.$235 Sun: NooA-Midnight 219-862-2082 
Furniture for sale:couch. chairs, COUNTDOWN TO THE entertainment center, beds Call 243-2856 •• LEWIS CRUSH •• 
FOR SALE: bed, couch, kitchen TOMORROW'S THE DAY! table and more WILL YOU BE THERE? CALL 243-7686 
English Classes at the South Bend English Institute. English taught as

TICKETS 
a Second Language. Located two blocks west of IUSB. 

• 9 LEVELs intensive training In DtRE need of graduation tickets • NEW SESSION every 4 wks. PLEASE call John @271-8531 •PRIVATE TUTORING avail. 
Phone 219-287-3622. 

-
_... 
Calling all those interested in 
D. . 
iversity 
on campus 
The Multicultural Executive Council is looking for new members. 
SJ"'nforrd hy: '\{ultuuiturai'"u;.u.utivt Council 


Applications are available in the Student Activities Office, 315 Lafortune and are due back to this office by April 16, 1999. 
Friday, April 9, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 19 
¦ NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE 
White: Ban opposite-sex reporters from locker rooms 
A.soc:ia1cJ l'rcs• 
NEW YOHK 

llPl{gili While has a new issu!': he's against allowing reporters of the oppositn snx into the locker rooms of pro­fpssional athlNPs. 
"l can't sec any kgitimate mason for forcing malu ath­lPtl's to walk around nakPd in /'ront ol' wonwn who ar,•n't llH\ir wiVl'.s." the rel.ired d1ifon­siw !\IHI and nrdainncl 111i11istPr 
wrntc in an opinion piece pub­lislrnd in Thursday's nditions of The Wall Street Journal. 
Ile added: "women at.hlet0s also shouldn't be forced to deal with main reporters while tlrny'ro changing." 
Whitn's articlH, adaptHd from his book. "Fighting the Good Fight," urges players and spousos to stop 01wn lock!•r room policios. 
"Go all thn wav lo the Suprmne Court. ii' m,;1d be," ho wrote. "I just hope that ii' that happ,ms, one of the exhibits boforc the court isn't a film of lfoggie White singing in the shower." 
White, 37, created controver­sy a year ago with a speech to the Wisconsin Legislature in which he attacked homosexu­ality and used racial stenrn­typns. 
L1islie Hammond, an NFL spoknswoman, said the league's open locker room pol­
icy is working. "They arc pro­fessionals and they arc doing their jobs," sl1e said. 
But White claims many play­ers are unhappy about the practice or allowing women in locker rooms, which has been in effect for two decades in all four major professional sports. 
'Tve seen a lot of female reporters and camerawomen ogling guys in the locker room," White wrote. "Tlrnre's not much a player can do 

about it, which leads to a high level of frustration." 
ltc added, "Talk about taking the notion of' 'public figurn' to an extreme!" 
t\ telephone message left for White with his agent, .Jimmy Sexton, in Memphis, Tenn., on Thursday afternoon was not immediately returnnd. 
White offnred a solution. 
"It's not as if' playnrs arnn't willing to talk to f'emalo reporters," he wrotn. 

page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, April 9, 1999 
¦ PROFESSIONAL GOLF ASSOCIATION 
Love shares lead at Augusta 
Associated Pres.s 
AUGUSTA. Ga. 
Davis Love Ill had no prob­lem with thl' rough at Augusta National or the additional 25 yards on No. 17. 
Ile birdied that hole on his way to a three-under-par 69 for a share of the 11arly first­round lead in the Mastcrs on Thursday. 
What really got his attention was his walk down the 14th and 15th fairways. Ahead on the grncns, course officials werP dousing them with water, trying to keep them from becoming as hard as a brick. 
"You ran tell," Love said as a sly smile crept over his face. "they've got them right where they want them." 
They were right on tlw edge of going from unrelenting to unfair. And that lefl players walking tho fine line between a solid round and a disaster. 
Love, Scott McCarron and Brandel Chamblee felt a mix­ture of satisfaction and relief after getling around iu 69. 
"You just don't want to blow yourself out the first day," Love said. "This wasn't going to be a day for real low scores. They took the air out of the greens last night." 
Justin Leonard and Colin Montgomerie had their best start ever in the Masters and were in a group at 70 that also included J994 champion Jose Maria Olazabal. 
Ernie Els fell out of the lead with a double bogey on the 18th to finish at 71, while Tiger Woods survived a triple bogey on the par-live eighth and was at even-par 72. 

David Duval, trying lo win for the third consecutive week, ~vas at two-under and facing a 12-foot par putt on Nu. 13 when play was suspended. Defending champion Mark O'Meara and Nick Price were at 1-under. 
They wern among 33 playms still on the ,·ourse. which was pelted with showers. All that did was give the watering crew thf' rest of' the day off. 
If only everyone else lrnd such light duty. 
On a day that began under hot. hazy and hard conditions -thf' high was a suffocating 90 degrees -only Carlos [•ranco managed to get as low as f'our-undnr f'or the day. That fizzled with two bogeys and a double bogey, and he landed cm his foet at 72. 
Of the 63 players who fin­ished their rounds, only 16 broke par. The course was playing about one stroke easier than last year, but it was miss­ing tho howling, swirling winds from the first round a year ago. 
Not that everyone found iL easier. 
Nick Faldo, a three-time Masters champion, showed how badly his game is suffering when he played the first 15 holes without a birdie and wound up with an 80. Faldo has not broken par at Augusta since his final-round 67 to win the 1996 Masters. 
Els felt about the same way when he walked off the course. He was three-under after a birdie on the 17th when his drive found the fairwav bunker, then he caught a 
plugged lie in the greenside bunker and three-putted. "You can't do things like I did on 18," he said. 
Woods knows tho reeling. His six birdies wero mon~ than anyone Thursday, bul half of them wern wasted on No. 8, where he took an eight. 
lie hit his driv1• into trees and f'ound his ball between t.vo pine cones, leaving him little choice but Lo play it straight ­and straight into a tree. The ball caromed back and into the azaleas, rrom where he had to take a penalty drop. 
"This is how you lose a tour­nament," Woods muttered to himself. 
Uuval was tied for the lead after four birdies on the front nine, but he was showing signs of struggling. lie had to make two knee-knocking par putts on the 10th and 11th, took bogey by missing another green at No. 12 and then hooked his drive in Rae's Creek on the 13th. 
When the siren sounded, he had a 12-foot putt to save par. 
The changes at Augusta were the most signilicant ever -tee boxes moved back on No. 17 and the par-five second hole, an elevated green on No. 11, 20 new pine trees lining the fair­ways between No. 15 and the 17th. And because of the largest field in 33 years in part because of change in the quali­fication system -the first two rounds were played in three­somes for the first time since 1962. 
Still, it always comes down to who can survive the slippery, contoured greens. 
¦ BOXING 

WB:C proposes new point system 
As.sodated J:'.r~s 

MEXICO CITY 
The World Boxing Council proposed Thursday a new system to announce judges' points after the fourth and eighth rounds of title fights to avoid controversies like the one that maned a l'ecent bout for the hMvyweight crown. 
''We have just mailed a let• ter to that effect today to the Washington, D.C., Athletic Commission for the next fight there and we arc awaiting a reply." WBC_ executive secre­tary Eduardo Lamason said. 
"A lot ofpeople are in favor of that system, of announcing the points at the fourth and eighth round and the final score at the end, especially after what happened last iime," b.aadded. 
The · World Boxing Association went even further Thursday with a proposal to apply "opAn scoring" ­announcing the points after each round -in a fight on the sam(l card, a scoring method not Used in more than a decade. 
But quite a number of peo­ple involved doubted it will work. 
A. fierce controversy erupt­ed when the judges declared a draw J.utheMarch 13 unifi­Ciltion tltle fight in New York's /Madison Square Garden between Britain's 
Lennox Lewis a11d Evander Holyfield. 
The fans and almost ovnry­one else were convinced that Lewis dominated. 
Tho WBC hopes thal announcing points at the end of the fourth and eighth rounds will diminish the chances of controversy erupt­ing over decisions. 
Lewis held the WBC heavy­weight crown, while Holyfiflld held the title for both the WBA based in Caracas, Venezuela, and tho Now Jersey-headquartered International Boxing Federation. 
A grand jury already was investigating whether the !BF sold rankings and arranged fights in return for kickbacks, and it came under additional scrutiny from law enforce­ment agencies in New York after the Holyfield-Lewis bout. 
(n the letter, WBC president Jose Sulaiman proposed tho new system be implemented in time for the middleweight fight between Hassine Cherifi of France and American chal­lenger Keith Holmes sched­uled for April 24 in Washington. 
The judges' names would not be made public -they would be designated as A, B, and C -and only the local boxing commission and the WBC would know them, Sulaiman's proposal said. 


,.. 
• 
The Alumni Association is hiring people who would like to work from June 2 ,1999 thru June 5, 1999 for Reunion '99 You'll have lots of fun while you earn extra spending money!!! Please Apply at Student Employment at 336 Grace Hall or the Alumni Association at 100 Eck Center 



hiday, April 9, 1999 The Observer. SPORTS page 21 
¦ MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
'Yogi' ends 14-year-old
Wood's elbow surgery a success 
exile from NY Stadium 
AssociatcLl Press 
BIHMIN(;IIAM, Ala. 
Kerry Wood, last season's NL Hookili of tlw Year. under­wr.nl n1constructivn elbow surgery Thursday, with Dr. .James Andrews transplanting a ligarnr.nt in what's known as Crrmnmy John surgery.<) 
Wood will miss the cntirn I1J1J9 season. The 21-ynar-old rigllt-hander wnnt I :l-6 for llw Cuhs last season and struck out 20 hatt11rs against llouslon last May. Lying a major lnagtrn rnrord. 
During tlrn surgnry, Wood's torn ulnar collatend ligament was r.. JHI in• d an cl wrap p e cl 
with a graft from his right forearm. a procedure pio­neored on .John's Ir.ft elbow by Dr. Frank Jobe in 1974. 
Wood missed the final month last season because of u sore nlbow before returning to start Game 3 of the NI playoffs against the Atlanta Brav1\s, lie tore the ligament after making just 26 pitches in his first spring training start last month. 
Wood is sclu,duled to be released from the hospital Friday and then will travel to Chicago after two weeks to begin rangn-of-motion exer­cises, llrn Cubs said. 
Wood struck out 2'.13 last 
season, had a 3.40 EITA ancl allowed hitters just a .·196 average. He was tlrn fourth overall pick in the 1995 ama­teur draft. 
Now the pitcher who has been cornp:ired to fellow Texans Roger Clemens and Nolan Hyan is faced with the reality that his 95-mph fast­ball may not return. Hehabilitation usually takes about a year. 
When he comes back, Wood will have to change his deliv­ery some more, taking stress off the reconstructod olbow. The Cubs had already worked with him uuring the spring to stop thrm,ving across his body. 
Brand will enter NBA draft 
Associated Pres, 
nukn's Elton Brand has clc·cidecl to skip his final two years of eligibility and will nnter this VPar's NBA draft, CNN ·Spor.ts Illustrated rnport<-cl Thursday. 
Without citing any sources. CNN-SI said an official announccmcmt will b!l made next wePk. 
Duke sports information director Mike Cragg told The Associated Pross that as far as he knows, Brand still hasn't made up his mind. 
Hn also said that no aunounccmont has been scheduled for next week. 
Tho sophomore center has boon honornd this year by the AP. the Los Angeles Athletic Club, the Atlanta Tipoff Club, the United States Basketball Wdters Association and the Atlantic Coast Conference. 
Brund averaged 17.8 points and 9.8 rebounds for llrn Blue Devil:;, who finished :n.2, including a perfect record ln ACC play. Duke lost to Connecticut, 77-74, in the NCAA championship game. 

Associated rress 
NEWYOHK 

Yogi Berra returns to Yankee Stadium on Friday, ending his 14-year exile on a most appro­priate day. 
After managing the Yankees to a a 4-1 victory over Minnesota in 1984, Berra uttered the final word on sea­son debut:;, coining the phrase: "A home opener is always exciting, no matter whether it's at home or on the road." 
He was fired the following year after a (1-l O start, and vowed never to return as long as George Stc:inhrenner owned the club. Last January, Berra ended the friud. saying simply: "It's over." 
Two months later. Berra took over as the greatest living Yankee when .Joe DiMaggio rlied on March 8. On Friday, he replaces the Yankee Clipper for the ceremonial first pitch after the World Serir,s banner is raised in the Bronx for the sec­ond time in three years. 
"We always look f'orward to opening clay al Yankee Stadium." center fielder Bernie Williams said. "We had a great year last year, and we're still enjoying the fruits of that." 
David Cone (20-7) makes his first start of the season. pitch• ing against the Detroit Tigers' Beiker Graterol. who will be making his major league debut. 
Yankees managPr Joe Torre, still recovering from prostato cancer surgery, wasn't expoct­ed at tho homer opener. but intends to be at the ballpark Sunday for the presentation of World SPries rings. 
With interim manager Don Zimmor hoading th11 tfmm, the Yankees began the season by winning two of three games at Oakland. 
"After losing thn first gam1i out here and winning two, I'm happy," Zimmer said bel'orn the Yankees returned home Wednesday night.. "We've got guys swinging the bat a littlo now." 
New York won eight of 11 against Dntroit last season. with Cone going 2-1. including two victorins during a snven­day span in April 12. 
Coming off' their 12 5-wi n season, which culminated with a World Series sweep of San Diego, the Yanknes sold morn than 2 million tickets beforn their home opener, a season rncord. 
"I didn't feel right winning the World Series last yc\ar and not having Yogi there," Steinbrenner said in January after Berra agrncd to nnd their feud. 'Tm just happy Im fools it's time to put this behind us. I'm glad he's said, 'Gllorgc, l forgivn you."' 
Bnrra has not been at Yankee Stadium for an official function since Steinbrcnnnr hired Billy Martin to replace him in 1985. though Im has occasionally showed up to visit friends. In a sign of the thawed rnlations with StPinbren1rnr. Berra attcrnded a Yankens' spring training game last month. 
"Fourtenn years, I'd say, is long enough," Berra said. 
Injury bug nabs 'Iron Man' after 19 years 
Associated Press 
BALTIMORE 

Cal Ripken missed a second straight start Thursday. but he said his sore back feels much better and he has no intention of going on the disabled list for the first lime in his 19-year career. 
"Absolutely not," Ripken said. "Today I'm bouncing around real well and eager lo put the uniform on and start swinging. But it just makes sense to go one more clay." 
Hipken, 38, left the Baltimore Orioles' opener against Tampa Bay on Monday with stiffness in his back. lie then sat out Wednesday's game. the first lime he missed a game due to injury since 1982. 
Last Sept. 20, Hipken volun­tarily ended his record consecu­tive games streak of 2,632 by sitting out the Orioles· final home game against the New 
York Yanknes. 
Hipken's back loosened up considerably by Thursday, but he was omitted from the start­ing lineup for the game against the Devil Hays after discussing his status with manager Hay Miller and trainer Hichie Bancells. 
'Tm popping around and I'm sure I can do a lot of things," Hipken said. "But when you think about it f'rom an intelligent viewpoint, I probably shouldn't do anything dumb and (should) give myself one mow day. Thal was the advice given to me and that's what I'm going to do." 
Hipken did not take batting practice, and Miller said he would try to avoid the tnmpta­tion to use him as a pinch-hitter Thursday night. 
"I told him to rest and contin­ue to get treatment. Using him tonight would defeat the pur­pose of giving him another day," Miller said. 
THURSDAY-SATURDAY, APRIL 15-17 at 8:00 P.M. SUNDAY, APRIL 18 at 
2:30 P.M. 
LITTLE THEATRE 
For ticket information contact the Saint Mary's 

A 
~TGEL College Box Office at 
l ~ 284-4626. 
STREET Mo~D 
• .. I £~THE !IB-,
,'!J ... ~Notre Dame, IN 
., 
.. 


page 22 The Observer• SPORTS Friday, April 9, I999 
¦ MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Cubbies top Houston 2-1 despite sparkless Sosa 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON 

Josf' Lima took care of Sammy Sosa, but he could not, howe~Pr, handle Henry Rodriguez and Jose Hernandez. 
Sosa remained homerless for tht-season and 1-for-10 at the plate, bul Hodriguez and Hcrnandnz hit solo homers and thP Chir.ago Cubs got a lucky bounce to beat the Houston Astros 2-1 Thursday night. 
Jon Lieber (1-0) won his first start for Lhe Cubs. He allowed live hits in eight innings. strik­ing out six and walking none. 
Rod Beck got a save in his first appearance of the season with some help from the arlili­cial turf. 
With two outs in the ninth and Jeff Bagwell on first base. Carl Ewirett hit a ground-rule double that bounced over the left-field fence. llad the ball stayed in play. Bagwell would have had a chance to score. 
Instead, Hagwell had to stop at third. and Beck got Richard Hidalgo on a game-ending grounder. 
Sosa, who hit three homers last season off Lima (0-l). f1ied out in the first and walked in the third. lie took a called third strike to end the fifth inning and fouled oul Lo third base­man Ken Caminiti in the eighth. 
Sosa hit his 66th and final homer off Lima last Sept. 25. The Cubs star also hit Nos. 50 and 51 ol'f Lima at Wrigley Field on Aug. 23 -after that game, there were published reports questioning whether Lima grooved a pitch for Sosa, and players denied the allega­tion. 
Last year. Sosa did not homer until his fourth game. He had only one after 10 games. 
Lima led the Astros with 34 home runs allowed last season and was fourth in the NL. It didn't take him long to get started on his 1999 total, either. 
Rodriguez and Hernandez hit solo home runs in the second inning, both over the left-field fence. 
Ricky Gutierrez doubled to start the third for Houston. He reached third on a perfectly placed sacrifice bunt by Lima and scored on a groundout by Craig Biggio. 
Lima was 3-0 lifetime against the Cubs. After yielding the homers, Lima kept the Astros in the game through eight innings. He struck out seven. including Rodriguez to end the eighth. 
EXPOS 5, METS 1 

Vladimir Guerrero and Shane Andrews each had two RBIs as the Montreal Expos spoiled Orel Ilershiser's New York Mets debut with a 5-1 win Thursday night. 
The Expos scored twice off' 1--I ershiser (0-1) in the first and third innings in front of a near­s e II out crowd of 43,918 at Olympic Stadium for Montreal's home opener. 
Miguel Batista (1-0) allowed four hits, including a solo homer by Edgardo Alfonzo in the third, before leaving to a standing ovation when he was replaced by Steve Kline. 
The crowd -3,680 fans fewer than came for Montreal's first three game, lm,t year had just given itself an ovation fol­lowing the posting of the atten­dance figure. This could have been the Expos' last home opener in Montreal. as the team could relocate following the season. 
Ugueth Urbina struck out Matt Franco with runners on lirst and second and two outs in the ninth for his first save. 
Montreal took a 2-0 lead in the first when Guerrero hit a two-out HBI single and scored on Brad Fullmer's triple. 
Guerrero hit another RBI sin­gle off IIershiser in the third. Ile advanced to third on Fullmcr's double off the center­field wall and both runners scored on Andrews' a two-run single. 
Hershiser, signed as a free agent by the Mets on March 25, allowed five runs -four earned -and eight hits in four innings after allowing only three earned runs in 17 .innings with the Cleveland Indians and Mets this spring. 
Alfonzo's solo shot with two outs in the Lhird Liroughl lhe Mets to within 2-1. Two great throws by Chris Widger saved Batista more runs. 
Batista issued consecutive walks to Hershiscr and Rickey llenderson to lead off the inning. With Alfonzo batting, llershiser strayed too far off second and Widger threw a strike to shortstop Orlando Cabrera at second to pick off Hershiser as Alfonzo faked a bunt on a first-pitch strike. 
Henderson was then thrown out attempting to steal second on a 2-1 pitch to Alfonzo, who fouled off Batista's next pitch before driving his first homer of the season. 
Henderson doubled leading off the eighth. After Batista struck out Alfonzo, Kline came on in relief and hit John Olerud with a pitch before getting Mike Piazza to hit back to him on the mound to start an inning-ending double play. 
Josias Manzanilla struck out four Expos. including the side in the fifth inning, in two innings of relief after replacing Hershiser. 
CARDINALS 9, BREWERS 4 
Fernando Tatis now has a two-home run lead on Mark McGwire. Tatis' three-run, f'i fth-in ning horn er was his third in as many games for St. Louis and was the big hit in a 9-4 victorv over the Milwaukee Brewers Thursday. 
He is now one homer away from tying one of McGwire's many records from last season, when the Cardinals slugger joined Willie Mays as the only players to hit homers in the first four games. 
Tatis has six RBIs and he also stoic his first two bases, help­ing to spoil the National League debut of Brewers pitcher Jim Abbott. 
Abbott (0-1) lasted five innings and allowed six runs on five hits. The pitcher. who has just one hand. was 0-for-2 in his first career at-bats, although it took a perfect play by Tatis at third to catch him by a half-step on a chopper to start the third. 
McGwire, who homered in the opener, was 0-for3 with an intentional walk. He scored on Tatis' home run, which put the Cardinals ahead 6-3. 
Shawon Dunston also home­red for the Cardinals. St. Louis added three runs in the sixth off Valerio de los Santos on an HBI double by pinch-hitter Placido Polanco, a run-scoring single by Darren Bragg and a wild pitch. 
Bobby Hughes homered and had an RBI double for Milwaukee. Sean Berry had throe hits and Jeff Cirillo had two for the Brewers. 
Kent Mercker (1-0) also lasted five innings and allowed three runs on eight hits. 
PHILLIES 6, 
BRAVES :1 

On the night Hank Aaron was honored, it was only fitting that home runs helped decide the game. 
Too bad for Aaron, his Atlanta Braves didn't win. 
Scott Rolen and Rico 8rogna hit solo homers and Panl Byrd shut ~ down his former team · on two hits in 7 1-3 innings as the Philadelphia Phillies beat the Braves 6-3 Thursday night. 
Before the game, ,,.,...... Aaron was praised on the 25th anniversary of his 71:ith home run, breaking Bahe Ruth's record. Commissioner Bud Selig. NL president Len Coleman and Al Downing, who surren­dered the historic homer at Atlanta, were among those taking part in the 45-minute ceremony. 
Aaron, now 65 and a Braves senior vice presi-KAT photo 
dent finished ith 755 Sammy Sosa's Hor-10 record at the plate with no home runs thus far in 1999 isn't · H w t far from his start in 1998 -the slugger had only one homer in his first 1Ogames.
h

ome runs. e was parof a sellout crowd of 47,225 ers in the inning -and struck son and was not as fortunate that watched Brogna homered out Andruw Jones to preserve a~ Br~ntley. in the second and Rolen con-the lead. frying to solve control trou­nect in the sixth off Kevin Brantley closed for his sec-hies that cost him his job as thr Millwood (0-1). ond save as the Phillies split Atlanta closer, Wohlers strug-Down 6-2 in the eighth the season opening. four-game gled after taking over to pitch Atlanta scored once on a~ series. He struck out three of the ninth. error by second baseman his four batters.. Wohl~rs walked le.adof'f hitter Marlon Anderson and loaded Braves reliever Mark Alex Arias on four pitches, then the bases with two outs. But Wohlers, who walked four in lobbed Doug Glanvillc's sacri­Jeff Brantley came out of the only two;thirds of an inning i.n fice bunt ove~ first ba~eman bullpen_ the Phillies tied an Mondays opener, made his Ryan Klesko s head lor an NL record by using five pitch-second appearance of the sea-error. 
Men's Water Polo Tournament 
Friday, April 9th-Sunday, April 11th at Rolfs Aquatic Center 
Game Times: Friday 
7:00 pm Notre Dame vs. ND Alumni Team 
8:15 pm U. of Michigan vs. Purdue 
9:30 pm U. of Dayton vs. Ohio State Saturday 
9:00 am  U. of Michigan vs. Georgetown  
10:15 am  ND Alumni Team vs. U. of Dyton  
11 :30 am  Purdue vs. Harison Y  

1:30 pm Notre Dame vs. Dayton 
2:45 pm U. of Michigan vs. Harrison Y 
4:00 pm ND Alumni Team vs. Ohio State 
5: 15 pm Purdue vs. Geogetown 
6:30 pm Notre Dame vs. Ohio State 
7:45 pm Georgetown vs. Harison Y 
Sunday Determined by performanGe in previous games. 
For more information call Greg Krouse at : 634-1215 or Krouse.2@nd.edu 
.....___ ­
Friday, April 9, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 23 
¦ NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE 
--------1 
i 
Devils defeat Caps, win third-straight division title 
Associa1<:d I'ress 
li/\ST HUTIJEHFOHD, N.J. 
Tlrn New J«irsoy Devils cap­turnd thoir third straight i\llantic Division title by defoating the Washington 
Capitals  1-0  011 Thursday  
night.  
Mnrtin  Broclnur madn  15  

savns nnd Brian Holston scorncl tlw gam1•-wi111wr with his 21Hh 1-{oal of tlw soason as tlw lJPvils lwnllllf\ thn first t1~a111 sin1·p tlH• l'hiladnlphia Fly1•rs ( I 'JK;i-'87) lo win Lhnw straight division Litlns. 
Whil1· BrodPur didn't !'ace many shots in l'!\cording his fourth shutout of thP season and :{(,th or his carrnir. lw had to makP a <'.ouplP of outstand­ing savns to get it. lln stopp1id a dt>flndioll right iu front by :\dam OatPs Parlv in tho snc­ond p<'riod an<f l11i mudn a WPal stop in clos«-011 Hid1,Lrcl ZPd11ik with :rn Sl'('.OIHIS len i11 llw s1wmHI ptiriocl. 
Tlw sl111tmlt was Brodnur's sP1:01HI or LIH· Sl'ason against tlw Capitals and tlw lil'th of' his canmr against llrnm, thn most hn has hacl against a11y l<lam. 
Holston rnadwrl Lim 20-goal 
mark for Urn first timn after Washington !'ailed Lo clear the puck out of its zone 1iarly in thP sncond period. l>c•fr11s1•man Sheldon Souray got tlw puck al the right 110int and goaltPnd1:r Olaf Kolzig t't>trld not control his shot. Holston got thP rebound and Plldt\d a pt\rsonal I(,-game sc:oririg drought by scoring off tlw goallonder's sti<'.k at 2:23. 
Kulzig was outstanding, slopping 24 shots in tlw Capitals' first gamn since lll'ing ,di111i11at1id from the playoff 1'1lC'<i. 
Washington. which wnnt. lo tlw Stanl"Y Cup finals a ytHll' ago. has 110w b1•p11 shut out 11i1H• t.im1•s this spason, irn:lud­ing a 0-0 Li1i with Calgary. 
;\ little more than three min­utes after Holston's goal, Sergei Nemchinov had a goal nullil'iod becauso Devils team­matn Handy McKay was in the crease. 
Capitals defonscman Alexei T1izikov, who was called up from Cincinnali of the 1111. 011 an em1H"g,mcy basis earlil~r in the day, missed tlrn /irst peri­od bPcaus11 his flight to Newark was diverted to Albany. N. Y. becauso of WI\Hlhcr. Iln 11ndcd up taking a $ 2 0 0 cab rid e to 1lrn Continental ;\irlinc)s Arena. 
FLYEHS 3, PENGUINS 1 
Apparently, llw Philadnlphia Fly1•rs haven't given up with­out Eric Lindros. 
;\l'ler learning that their loading scoror and captain sul'l'nrfld a setback in his rneovtlry f'rom a collapsed lung, the Flr•rs made it clnar that tlH'y intend lo move on ~ with or without him. 
John Lr.Clair tied Lindros for the team lt)ad with his 40th goal Thursday night, and the Flyers got a crucial 3-1 victory over the reeling Pittsburgh Penguins, who were without NII I. scoring leader J aromir Jagr. 
With .lagr back in Pittsburgh dun to a right groin injury. the Penguins lost their third straight and saw their longest winless streak or the season grow to eight games -0-6-2. It was their I0th rnnsecutive loss in Philadelphia. 
Thn Flyers, who got LeClair, Mark Hccchi and Eric Desjardins hack l'rom injuries, moved past tlrn Penguins to gain sole possession of fifth place in the Eastnrn Conl'nrence with !'our games ldt. 
three points. The Flyers also won the season series with Pittsburgh, 3-l-1, which could be a tiebreaker for playoff position. 
Rod Brind'Amour scored his 23rd goal and added an assist, and Recchi scored his I6th on a shot that Penguins defense­man Jiri Slegr deflected into his own net. 
Brind'Amour, eluvated to captain while Lindros is out, had an emply-net goal wavnd off at the end of regulation hecausfl limn had expired. 
Leclair had missed the last two game::;, both losses, with hack spasms. Hccchi missed two games with migraine headaches, and Desjardins ­Philadelphia's top drfenseman missed seven games with a knee injury. 
The Penguins, who lost their third straight. said Jagr is day­to-day. He missed four games <'arly last St)ason with the same injury and had acupunc­tui·o treatmonts two years ago. 
In the absence of Lindrns, Brind'Amour tried to carry the burden. He scored his 23rd goal 2;27 into the game on a nice pass from /\dam Burt to make it 1-0. 
After Hob Brown tied it two minutes later, Brind'Amour assisted on LeClair's 40th goal to give the Flyers a 2-1 lead with 3;31 left in the first peri­od. On the power play, Desjardins skated in from the point and launched a wrist shot that was deflected. LeClair, with his back to the goal. touched it last as it bounced past goalie Peter Skudra. 
Hecchi made it 3-1 with his 16th goal 4 1/2 minutes into the second. Sicgr was spinning arnund to gel into position as Hecchi skated in and ended up steering the puck right into the net for a :1-1 Flyers lead. 
Four players got roughing 

If you need to do some catching up or want to get a jump on fall, summer classes at Hol:,· Cross College may be just the ticket. Choose one or both sessions, each offering a wide variety of quality general education courses. And pay our sommer tuition rate of just $170 per creciit hour. 
Take advantage of exceptionally small classes, a dedicated and caring faculty, and our convenient 
location just to the west of the University of Notre Dame campus. Credit earned is transferable. And on-campus student housing is available. 
You'll enjoy summer activities even more, knowing that you're also getting ahead in your studies. Write or call Holy Cross College today. Applications for Summer Sessions I and 11, as well as for the 1999 Fall Semester, are now being accepted. 
Session I-Moy I 7 to June 2 4 
penalties resulting from a scu11le after the second period horn. Burt and Matthew Barnaby locked up in a shov­ing match, and Brind'Amuur and Ian Moran also were penalized. Barnaby gestured toward the Flyers' bench as everyone skated off for the intermission. 
ISLANDERS 3, CANADIANS 1 

Mariusz Czerkawski and Zigmund l'alffy each had a goal and an assist as Urn Nnw York Islander::; beat the Montreal Canadiens 3-1 Thursday night. 
The t::;landers won only their third gamn since Feb. 27 (3­11-3), and their first at home since that same date when they beat the Detroit Hed Wings 3-1. 
Mats Lindgren scored Nnw York's other goal. Wade Flaherty stopped 20 shots in his l0th straight start in goal. 
Brian Savage had Montreal's only goal. his 100th in the NHL. 
Jose Theodore stopped 26 shots for the Canadiens, who lost for the fourth time in their last six games. 
New York scored three goals in the second period to jump out to a 3-0 lead. 
Czerkawski opened the scor­ing 76 seconds into the period when he sent a spinning back­hand from the low left circle between Theodore's pads. 
Palffy scored his team-lead­ing 19th goal for a 2-0 lead at 
7:09. He tried to pass the puck out from behind the net. and it deflected off defcnseman Miroslav Guren over the goal line. 
Lindgren sent a close shot in at 12:10. 
Savage scored for Montreal with 63 seconds left on a one­timer from the high slot _while _ 
HOLY CROSS 

*COLLEGE 
Office of Admissions 

P.O. Box 308 • Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Session II -June 28 to August 5 (219) 239-8400, ext. 22 • Fax (219) 233-7427 e-mail: vduke@hcc-nd.edu 
the Canadions were on a power play. 
The Islanders lost rookiP def'enseman Eric Brewer in the period to a strainnd tnndon in his leg. 
LIGHTING :1, BRUINS 0 

Kevin Hodson and Corey Schwab combined to mnko 27 saves as tho Tam pa Bay Lightning bnat the Boston Bruins 3-0 Thursday night. 
Hodson left after thn first period with a groin pull and Schwab finishnd up as tho Lightning beat the Bruins one day after they clinched a play­off berth. 
Vincent Lncavalier, Colin Forbes and Chris Crntton scored for tlrn Lightning. 
Boston. playing its fifth ·game· in eight days. had a four-game winning streak snappml. Tim Bruins also saw thn end of their six-game road unbeaten streak (5-0-1 ). 
Lecavalior scored on Tampa Bay's first shot for the second consecutive game. Thn rookie scored his 13th goal on a wrist ::;hot from tho right circle at 
3:28 of the first period. 
Forbes put the Lightning up 2-0 at 19:01 of the second period, lifting a shot from tlrn low slot ovnr Boston goalie Robbie Tallas. 
Gratton added an empty-net goal with 48.6 seconds left in the third period. 
Stephane Hicher had two assists, giving the Tampa Bay right wing live points includ­
ing four assists  - over  tlrn  
past three games.  
Tallas,  who  nnternd  tlrn  

game 2-0-1 this season and 5­0-1 all-time against Tampa Bay, made his first start since Feb. 21 -a span ol' 22 games. The goalie kept the game close by making point-blank saves on Miko Sillingor and Lecavalier late in tlrn sflconcl period. 
Schwab made a glove save on Hay Bourque's blue-line drive in the third period and also caught a break whnn a Jason Allison shot hit both posts. 
Tampa Bay center Michael Nylander IPl't tlw game with a concussion at 10:02 of tlw first poriod following a hit along the boards by Boston ldl wing Ken Baumgartner, who received a fivP-minute hoard­ing penalty and a ganw mis­conduct. 
The Lightning rould ma,rngP just two shots, including 
0

Alnxandrn Daigl1\ S onP-tinwr l'rom the slot, during tlw exlPndnd power play against tlw Bruins' top-rankncl p<'nal­ty-killing unit. 
l)efonsn111a11 l!al (;ill. who had tlw Bruins' lorq.\Pst rur­rent iron man stn•ak ol' 118 gamns -including rngular season and playoffs -sat out with a hip ffoxor injury and was listed as clay to day. 
The victory was Tampa nay's first against tlw Bruins since Dec. 17, 19')7, snapping a fiVP·t{lllllO (0-4-1) winlPSS drought. 
Please Recycle The Observer. 
" . 

page 24 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, April 9, 1999 
¦ NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION 
'Mailman' delivers season-high 38 in 92-85 Jazz win 
Associated Press 
SALT LAKE CITY 
Karl Malone scored 25 of his season-high 38 points in the sec­ond half as the Utah Jazz edged Golden State 92-85 Thursday night for their 10th consecutive victory over the Warrim·s. 
The Jazz won their fourth straight game but never pulled away from a Warriors team play­ing for the fifth tinrn in seven nights. Golden State led 81-80 on Bimbo Coles' jumper with 3:34 to play. but Malone and Bryon Russell hit jumpers to give Utah an 87-81 lead with 1:33 lcft. 
Coles and Chris Mills then hit jumpers to cut Utah's lead to two points with 44 seconds remain­ing, but Tony OP!k turned th1, ball over and John Starks missed a thr~6inter for the Warriors. 
Malone, who sprained his left knee in Utah's win over the Los Angeles Lakers on Tuesday, made all l 0 of his free thrm-vs in the fourth quarter and finished 18-for-l 9 from the line. He also grabbed 12 rebounds. 
The Jazz won their second game in seven days against the Warriors, who have lost five of their last six. Golden State fell to seven games below .500, the low­est point in its once-promising season. 
Utah coach Jerry Sloan was ejected by referee Ronnie Nunn with 9:19 remaining in the first half. lt was the second straight early exit for Sloan, who also was tossed from Utah's win at the Forum. 
Utah has won six straight and 26 of its last 27 games at home, while Golden State hasn't won at the Delta Center since November 199!__ 

Coles led the Warriors with 20 points, almost all of them on jump shots, as his team struggled to score inside against Utah. Starks, Golden State·s leading scorer, spent the evening in foul trouble and scored his 14 points in just 24 minutes. 
The Warriors. who were play­ing the fourth game of a six­game road trip, outplayed the Jazz for three quarters. Golden State lwld Utah to 43.1 perrent shnoting and led until midway through the third quarter. 
But Utah outrebounded Golden State 46-27. The Warriors were averaging 49 rebounds per game, tops in the NBA 
Russell added 15 points for the Jazz, and Shandon Anderson had 12 off the benrh. Mills scored 18 points for Golden State. 
Playing just their third home gamo in the last 25 days, the Jazz improved their home record to 14-1, second only to Portland's 17-1 mark. Utah plays three more limes at the Delta Center in the next four days, including a meeting with Phoenix on Friday. 
SPURS 92, ROCKETS 83 
Sean Elliott scored 19 points as the San Antonio Spurs won their sixth straight game and ended Houston's nine-game home win­ning streak with a 92-83 victory over the Rockets on Thursday night. 
Hakeem Olajuwon had 27 points and 12 rebounds for the Rockets, who made a late run after trailing by 19 points down midway through the third period. 
Houston closed to 88-81 with 
1:17 left before ex-Rocket Mario Elie made four straight free throws in the final minute to clinch the victory. 
Tim Ouncan added 18 points and 13 rebounds for the Spurs, who have won 18 of their last 20 games. Elie finished with 14 points, David Robinson had 13, and Avery Johnson had 10 points and 10 assists. 
The Spurs held !Iouston to just two field goals for nearly six min­utes to open the second half, while Hobinson and Elliott each scored five points to give the Spurs a 68-49 lead midway through the third quarter. 
Then the Rockets began chip­ping away. 
Olajuwon and Michael Dickerson each scored five points during a 15-5 Houston run, and Sam Mack's three-pointer to start the final period keyed a 7-2 spurt that cut the Spur.s' lead to 77 -71. 
But a dunk by Hobinson and a jumper by Johnson restornd San Antonio's double-digit lead with 
6:05 left. 

The Rockets, second in the league with more than six three­pointers per game. were just 2 of-12 from behind the arc. The Spurs, 24th in the league from long range, were 6-of-13 on three-point attempts. 
MAGIC 73, CAVALIERS 69 
Penny Hardaway scored 23 points, Matt Harpring added 14 and 12 rebounds and Orlando overcame a horrible shooting night Thursday for its fifth straight win -a sloppy, bloody 73-69 victory over the Cleveland Cavaliers. 
The Magic shot just 35 percent from the floor (28-of-80) and 52 percent from the line (14-of-27), and scored only 14 points in the fourth quarter. But it was enough to beat the tired Cavs, who were playing their third game in three nights. 
Cleveland also made only 35 percent of its field-goal at.tempts and managed just 13 fourth­quarter points. The 69 points were a season-low for the Cavs, who are in the midst of playing sevrm games in nine nights. 
Harpring and teammate Isaac Austin both had to get stitches during the game, whirh had s1w­eral wild sequences where play­ers dived recklessly to the floor or into the crowd for balls. 
Darrell Armstrong, Orlando's 6-foot-1 point guard, grabbed a career-high 12 rebounds -most of them on long misses -and had seven assists for the Magic. 
Shawn Kemp had 17 points and Brevin Knight added 14, seven rebounds and six assists for the Cavs. 
Wesley Person made three­pointers on consecutive trips Parly in the second half as the Cavs opened a 10-point lead. But Cleveland would score only one field goal in the next eight min­utes as Hardaway scored eight points in a 21-2 run that gave the Magic a 59-50 lead with 2:23 remaining in the third. 
But just when it looked like three games in 72 hours had finally caught up to the Cavs, Orlando went cold from the floor and didn't score until 7:58 remained on Harpring'sjumper. 
Harpring had just returned after getting a deep gash over his right eye during a scramble with Cleveland's Johnny Newman. 
With Harpring sprawled on the court, Newman tried to dive over Harpring but landed on the rook­ie's head, bouncing it hard off the noor. As he lay bleeding, the Gund Arena crowd gaspnd wlrnn a replay was shown on the video scoreboard. llarpring got seven stitches and returned woaring a large bandagA. 
Hardaway's basket with 2:11 lert put Orlando ahead 68-64, and when the Cavs had a turnover and miss, Austin's short jumper put the Magir up by six. 
Cleveland got within three on Derek Anderson's three-pointer with IO seconds to play bPforP 
Harpring's free throw with eight seconds remaining closed it out. 
CELTICS 101, HAPTORS 89 
Kenny Anderson scored 2:1 points and Antoine Walker had 18 points and 10 rebounds as the Boston Celtics beat the Toronto Hap tors 101-89 Thursday night. 
Boston won its second in a row after snapping a four-game los­ing streak. Toronto has lost two straight at horn(\ after winning nine in a row at home. 
Ron Mercer had 18 points, Paul Pierce 15 and Vitaly Potapcnko 11 for the Celtics, who beat the Raptors for the first time this sea­son following two losses. 
Rookie Vince Carter led Toronto with 31 points, including a basket that cut Boston's lead to six with 5:20 remaining. 
Anderson, who refused to report to Toronto last season, was booed every time he touched the ball. He had seven assists and was 3-for-4 from three-point range. 
The Celtics were 8-for-13 from long range, including 4-for-5 by Walker. 
Boston used its full-court press to force 22 turnovers that thn Celtics converted into 25 poinl'i. 

Diamonds of Quality 
We sell GIA certified 'Ideal Cut' diamonds that have a GIA laser number engraved on the edge of the diamond that corresponds to a 'Laser Inscription Registry' number on the GIA Certificate. Numbers on the diamond and certificate match. Let us show you this special feature with our microscope. Protect yourself; there is comfort in knowing. 
GIA GEM TRADE LABORATORY DIAMOND DOSSIER GRADING REPORT 
February 04, 1999 Laser Inscription Registry ..GIA 10497889 Shape and Cutting Style .... ROUND BRILLIANT 
Measurements ............. 6.00 -6.04 x 3.65mm 
Weight .............................................. 0.79carat Pro~:gili~................................................... 60.6 % 
Table ....................................................... 56% Girdle .......... THIN TO MEDIUM, FACETED Culet ..................................................... NONE 
Finish 

Polish ................................. VERY GOOD 
Symmetry ....... ................... EXCELLENT Clarity Grade ............................................. VSl Color Grade .......................................................... J 
Fluorescence ..... ................. STRONG BLUE 

John M~ Marshall's, Inc. 
Established 1965 
Diamonds Engagement Rings & Wedding Bands 18karat Yellow Gold & Platinum Personally Design Your Own Engagement Ring 
Thinking of purchasing a diamond? Choose wisely with information in our 
complimentary book, Diamonds Magnified, 186 pages, 2nd edition, hardbound. 
~ 

John M. Marshall 
Jeweler/ Gemologist/ Mineralogist Telephone: 287-1427 Monday -Friday, lOa.m. to 6p.m. KeyBank Building, Suite #101, South Bend, Indiana 46601 

Now Leasing For  
Fall 1999  
••  Conveniently located 4 Blocks from Campus Student Lease Avallable  
or One Month free rent with a year lease  
•  Large 2-Bedrooms for under $500.00!!  

"The Best Value In Off Campus Living" 
Professionally Managed by Real Estate Management Corp. 
234-9923 
• 

friday, April 9, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 25 
¦ NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE 
Lindros to undergo surgery today to drain lung fluid 
Associated Pres.. 
Pl IIIADELPI l!A Eric Lindros sulforml a sntback in his rncovery l'nm1 a collaps~cl 
!u11g Thursday, returning to 
Philadolphia only to learn lrn must go back to tlw huspilal f'or su1w•ry. 
A whirlw[nd day that lwgan with 1.indros bPing rolnas,1cl from a hospital in Nashvillu. Tenn., turnncl smnb,:r whm1 his doctor unnounct\d that tlrn prolilk. scor­t1r and tnam captain will havo stirgory Friday to drain lluid that has aci:umuluted in his clH1sl C'.iLVity. 
Dr. Larry Kaisor, a chest sur­/.WOll who is laking ov,1r Linclros' carP, said cluring a now!:i confnr­PIH:P ,wxt tu tlw Fly,irs' locknr room Lhal t.inrlros ran u f'evnr in f'X0tiss of I 02 degrnr.s Wodnnscluy night and Urn lluid in his dwst -partly comprisPd of dotWd hlood -may bo infnctcd. 
Tlw proccdurn. known as vid,io Lhoroscopy, is minor, and 1.indros is llX!Wcted to he lrnspi­taliwd 4-5 days at thn Univtirsity of l'mrnsvlvania. But tlrn rrnws ndnforcn·d Flyors plans to pro­c,wd into tlw playoffs as if l.indros will not h,i joining thnm. 
"It looked likn things wore going to come along quite nicely on their own," Kaisnr said. "But llrn l'ilm from this morning showPd what appcarncl lo be an incniasti in collnction of fluid in that right chest. Tim fact that he had a fairly high l',wnr last night -wdl abovn 102, in fact -indi­ratN! tlrnrci might bP something dst-going on." 
l.indros, who was rnsUng at houw, shows 110 signs of addi­lional bhwding, Kaiser said. I le ra111·.<'lml plans to r.mne to the arPrm and mnnt with tnammates lmforP thn Fty,ir!:i' ganw against Pittsburgh Thursday night. 
"I think you rnuld say Im was vnry clis1tppoi11Wcl." Kaiser said. "Ill' was undN tlw imprPssion that this was bl'llind him and lw was on his way home. I think he dislikes being in lhe hospital. He was clearly disappointed, but he understands." 
Kaiser, who will pMt'orm lhe opcrnLion, said iL involves insert­ing a lube and a microscopic camera lhrough small incisions in his chesl. The material and clotted blood is not the lung, but in tho area between the lung and the diaphragm, Kaiser said. It is kenping tho hmg from expanding properly. 
"In terms of' full recovnry, that rnmains to be d(~Wrminecl." Kaiser said. "I nxpoct him to uc fully normal al'tnr this and Im playing as great as hn ever playnd. I can't givn you any kind of time estirnato. Hight now, he ncnds to be lakun care of." 
Doctors still don't know what l'auscd about six pints of blood to scnp into Lindros' chest after a 2-1 victory over Lim Nashville Predators last Thursday. Tests showed no signs ol' a broken rib, so they believe a blond vessel 
ruptured. 

Lindrns was pale and coughing intermittently during a brief news confnrnncn bofore being rnleasod from Baptist Ilospital Thursday and flying home to Philadelphia. lie said he was "gelling better every day," but understands the seriousness of his injury. 
"You don't worry about the next game," the Philadelphia Flyers' captain and leading scor­er said. "You don't worry about tlw f'irst round. You wonder what's go_i,ng to happPn in the nnxt hour. 
Doctors have said Linclros noecls 3-4 weeks to regenerate the blood he lost. lie continues to insist on not having a transfu­sion, and Kaiser is following those instructions. The playoffs begin April 21. 
"The worst-case scenario is I don't come back until SPptm11l)('r," Lindros said. "But I think bm:ause of' tho jump-start 

KAT photo 

Flyer captain Eric Lindros will most likely miss the beginning of his team's playoffs as he undergoes surgery 
today to remove fluid buildup in his chest. 
we had here and the good care hern, I might be on my way back much sooner than that." 
Lindros, one of the toughest players and most dominant scor­ers in the NHL, has endured numerous injuries during his career, though none as serious as this. 
Roommate Keith Jones found him lying in the bathtub early 
t:toar Gnlde Applications 
i:rhe Oflce of Admissions will be hlriufj 6 new toar fjaides fop the 99-00 academic )leap 
Applications are available at 1 Grace Hall 
8:00 a.m. -5:00 p.m. M-F or via e-mail atjo)2ce.2@ud.edu 
Application «leadliue is Weduesda)l, April 21 
AhSO 
2 Fnll-time tour fjuide/offlce 
workers ape needed this Snmmer (Ma)l 18 -Auttast 13) NotP6 Dame stncleuts from the Sot.1th Beu<l 
apea ape 6RCODPafjed to GORtact SnsaR dO)lG8 
last Friday and called the Flyers' training staff. Lindros was taken by ambulance to Baptist, where doctors found that the blood­heavy right lung was pushing against his heart. 
"He didn't recognize the seri­ousness of his injury," said Dr. Hichard Garman, who works with the Predators. 
The Flyers went into Thursday 
CINf MAl~K TMh\flffS 
I 

Al! Shl)Ws Before 6 PM S4.00 

S...00 Slud~nt.JC'hilt.lrt:"n/S~nior, S650 ,\duli 
Stereo Surround Sound in all Thc.atrcs 
Gol R 2:05 4:45 7:30 10:00 
Babv Genjuses PG 
2·30 4:55 7;05 9'25 6mm A 7·45 10:30 Forces of Nature PG-13 1:35 ,uo 7:20 9:<15 
2 35 5:05 6:00 10:30 Lile ia Beautlfut PG-13 1:30 4:35 7:35, 10 15 Message in a BotUe PG•t3 1 15 4:05 7.10 9-55 Oct0ber Sky PG 2:00 4:40 7:25, 9:50 
Paybeck R 
1 45 4:20 7;05, 9:40 Rushmore A 155 4:25 
Saving Private Rvan R 
1:30 5:15 9:20 Sha keapeare In Love R1,so oo r:55 10,Js The Corruplor A , :40 4:50 7:50 t0:25 
The King and I G 
1 :20 3.30 5:40 The Other Slater PG-13 1 :25 4 :20 7 '.15 ,0:05 The Mod Squad A 2:10 4:25 7:00 9:30 
The Matrhr. R 1.,s 2.00 -4.15 5:00 
110 acos 10,10 Twin Dragone P0·13 
,_1s .:ns 5:~5 7:40 s·ss 
IOIIAYI TIME$ OHLI Kltnl OM AD'l~litl 1tm1 SAL15 IIANOIW <ICCISS1fll INO PASSI> • HO kiPWIMR! 
r-----------------, 
L-----------------J 
: 1  10 tanning  : I  
:  sessions  \  
I  I  
i  s30  :  


night's game against Pittsburgh tied for fourth in thP Eastern Confenmce. The team continues to assume that Lindros won't bn back this season. 
"We have to prepare that way and play that way," Flyers gen­eral manager Bob Clarke said. "We can't sit and hope and hopo and hope. With that serious an injury, who knows?" 
~ 
DI~ 
t 
Dial Phone ,.SJ674-0900 cate,.,ry 11466 for more Info. Downtown South Bend 
235. S. Michigan SL 233-toOO 
Reaenat:lon1 recommended 


ERASMUS BOOK-Sl 
•Used 
books bought and sold 

•25 
Catrgories of Bools 

•25,000 
Hardback and Paperback hooks In stock · •Out-of-Print sc:arch seti1icc:: $2.00 

•Ap11raisals 
large and small 


Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 


NEW!

University Commons Southland Plaza Grape & McKinley 
hy UP Mall at fn•fand & IrrmWt,,HI nrarKMart 
272-7653 291-2000 256-9656 
... 
.... 
Friday, April 9, 1999

page 26 The Observer• SPORTS 
¦ NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE ¦ TRACI( ANO tlELO 
• DeBartolo continues Irish build steam against Purdue 
By BRIAN HOBBINS 
Sports Writer 

It is not uncommon the Irish track team to make the trip to West Lafayette for a meet against Purdue, but this week­end, it will face uncommon pressure. 
The quad meet against Purdue, Wyoming and Central Michigan will be the corner­stone !'or success or failure for two of the country's most pres­tigious meets to be held over tlrn next two weeks. 
The Purdue mcel will provide coaches and athletes one last chance to prove their mettle before selections are made for the Mount Sac Invitational and the world-renowned Drake Helavs. 
Many of the athletes were feeling the pressure during training this week as the com­petition is becoming more and more daunting. 
Brigid O'Brien, 3.000-meter standout, understands that coach Tim Connelly is using the Purdue meet as a mock Rig East tournament, carrying his premiere athletes to one of the last scored meets before the ri.1al deal in Villanova, Penn. 
High jumper Jennifer Englehardt said she knows what Connelly is working on and is excited with the team's prospects. 
"The upcoming meet is a scored meet and going off of the indoor season and events this season we are really anx­ious to see what we can do," she said. 
Freshman standout Natalie 
Hallett also recognizes the sig-

Associated Press 
S/\N FHA;"lCISCO 

SuspendBd San Francisco 49ers co-owrn'r Eddif' Dt>Bartolo was sued by his own corporation and the football team Thursday, accused of owing the company $94 million and hurting prosp111·ts for a new stadium. 
The Edward J. DeBartolo Corp. and the 49ers, now run by DeRartolo's sister Denice DeBartolo York and her hus­band since DeBartolo became enmeshed 16 months ago in a Louisiana gambling fraud scan­dal. filed the lawsuit in San Francisco County Superior Court. 
The suit said it is seeking repayment of the debt, cutting DeBartolo's management ties to the team, and ending any per­sonal financial interest claimed by DeBartolo in the stadium pro­ject. 
NFL spokeswoman Leslie Hammond said the league did not have any immediate com­ment on the suit. 
OeBartolo's spokesman called the lawsuit a "sad and desperate act" by York and her husband, John York. 
"As events and the various lawsuits to come will demon­strate, Mr. DeBartolo is entitled to control of the 49ers following the lifting of his suspension, over $100 million of damages from the Yorks, and an immediate equal say in the running of the family businesses," said spokesman Rick Rice. 
"To avoid meeting their obliga­

to be beset by woes 
tions, the Yorks have breached prior agrf'ements, refused to attend shareholder meetings, and rebuffed all overtures at restoring family peace," Rief' said. 
He said the suit was filed because "Mrs. York will lose control ol' the board of the Edward J. Del3arlolo Corp. at next Tuesday's annual meeting.'' 
Sam Singer, a spokesman for the DeRartolo Corp., said he had "no idea" to what the $100 mil­lion referred. 
Singer said the suit was not about any personal dispute between DeBartolo and his sis­ter. 
''Denise loves her brother very much. but they have vastly dif­ferent business styles," Singer said. "What this really is about is this is a corporate lawsuit." 
NFL commissioner Paul Tagliabue has sanctioned DnRartolo, saying he is guilty of conduct detrimental to the NFL for his involVl'iment in the gam­bling fraud case. 
DeBartolo, who pleaded guilty in October to failing to report a felony in connection with the gambling fraud case, could be reinstated by the league if he satisfies the terms of his banish­ment, Tagliabue has said. 
DeBartolo retains the right to discuss some aspects of team operations with his sister and her husband, who is a vice presi­dent in the 49ers' front office. But any such discussions are to be strictly advisory and the Yorks are free to accept or ignore his advice. 
nificance of the Purdue meet, stating, "Not everyone gets to go to Mount Sac so I am really excited for Purdue." 
Purdue is a chance for ath­letes on the bubble to prove themselves worthy of compet­ing at the next level. 
Always one for pointers, Hallett is going into this week­end's competition confident. 
"Senior vaulter Mike Brown says that people do well at Purdue, we compete there a lot so we know the ropes, we know 
L E w s C R u s H I 
p
A R L 1 0 1 9 9 9 
what to expect," she said. 
Antonio Arce said he is also yearning for the top notch com­pP.tition he is sure to encounter at Mount Sac and Drake. 
"The competition will be very good and you never know what the conditions will be," he said. "Basically, we prepare for the worst and go into each meet with a positive workout." 
It seems that Arce, along with the rest of the team recognizes that in failing to prepare you prepare to fail. 

The following lucky people have been invited to the Second Annual Lewis Hall Crush Dance! Doors will open at 9pm with free t-shirts to all who join in the fun. The band will be playing in the courtyard, the DJ will be rockin' in the basement, and there will be plenty of girls in grass skirts doing the hula! 
ALUMNI Joe Clamon Leo DalleMolle  FISHER Pa1 Bowers Mafl Ford  Sean Zanderson KEOUGH  GabeWahila Matt Wohlberg  Alex Vidergar Keith Whelan  ZAHM Ryan Becker Mike Bufkin  
Mike Fanning  Walter Kasinskas  Courtney Canadeo  O'NEILL  ST. ED'S  Bob Cenname  
Allan Huebner Arnold LaCayo Bob Sullivan Dave Zachry CARROLL Peter Baggenstos Chris Degnan Andy Haines Johnathan Jorissen Jim Kwiat! Jack Schwager  Bryan Wetta Pat White KEENAN Matt Baron Ryan Carlson Kevin Carney Michael Crowley Mark Deboy Richard Deferia Ryan Dick Donald Dykes  Steve Dolezal Lance Leclere Pete Mack Mike Mancuso Mickey Mason Micah Murphy nmothy Sullivan Alan Tietz Steve Walker Holt Zeidler Mike Zelenka  Matt Altman Juan Cabrera Chris Chambers Eric Hovan Jeremy Howe Emmett Malloy Joe Milford Dave Murray Tommy Phillips Tyson Smith SIEGFREID  Frank Borjon Derrick Bravo Mike Burgart Norm Gray Javin Hunter Dave Kinsella Ryan Newell Joseph Penton Jaime Rojas Sean Thomas AdamTibble  Sean Coary Chad Dupont Christopher Gerber Zack Gustafson Ryan Harding Sean Harrigan Scott Killen Jim Moravek Rob Pazornik Wally Poirier Kevin Richardson Joe Saenz  
DILLON Ryon Allen Tonio Buonassisi Tom Campbell Seth Chisamore Mark Collins Colin Conway Andrew Dayton Chris Fredlake Colin Grady Jake Hansen Ryan Hernandez Nale Hicks Phillip Madonia Jim Maher John O'Molley Matt Orenchuk Tony Pagliarini Dan Probsl  Aaron From Herb Giorgio Josh Guerra Nick Gupta Grant Irons nm Jarotkiewicz Blake Kirkman Mat! Kloser Sean Lyons Brent Moberg Kelsey Mulholland Joy Newman Eric Oligino Aaron Osland Ned Popi! Brad Richards Brian Rigney John Smigelsky Matt Strickroth Brian Tomcik  KNOTT Ross Barrett George Coppinger Mike Ferguson Lupe Martinez Dave Mccaffrey Mike Morales Dan Peale Jim Precobb Mario Saurez Job Turner Mrian Wolford MORRISSEY Brian Farrell Mike Flannery Sean Marlow Shane McGonegle Paul O'Toole Chad Silker  Brent Buckman Kyte Eller Joe Healy James Herbe John Hudek Dan Hughes B.J. Kloska Jorge Maciel Marty Martin Nathan Moore Motl Oliva Steven Sanchez Joe Schwartz Mike Vossen SORIN Tom Dolphin Steve Gomez Kevin Grugan Scott Stender  STANFORD Joshua Appezzato Brian Barrett Joe Benyo Dan Csizmar R.C. Deer Mike DeLaRosa Shaun Desmond Stephen Gillespie David Givens Dave Hunt Tom Keeley Dave Lazar Andy Marshall Matt Mulherin Dan P. Mullen Vince O'Connor Matt Olayer Matt Sarb Kevin Visconti  Carlos Sanchez Dan Santone Adam Staats Mike Tribe Mike Zavertnik OFF-CAMPUS Charles Arvin Ivory Covington Michael Dejean Tim Fitzsimmons Gregory Fond Adam Ortega S!ephan Ortman Dave Reidy Ted Romaine nm Schank  
Dove Wilson  PoulTomcik  Malt Sparacino  Josh Thompson  Colin Welch  
Craig Wieber  Brian Sweet  MorcTubay  Dan Welch  

Someone in Lewis has a CRUSH on YOU! 
You must arrive by 10:30pm, and have both your invitation and a picture id. Name tags will be provided and must be worn at ALL times. If your name is listed and you have not received your invitation, please contact Lisa at 4-3496. 
.. 
Friday, April 9, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 27 

Someone once said, 
free foud

"There is no such thing 
freti t'O's 

Recycle The Observer. 
Bookstore 
continued from page 1 
games of the day began. cramp­
ing some toams' style. Team 
Girth squared-off with tho A­
team in a wet showdown. 
"Tho rain slowed things down 
a little," said Team Girth's cap­
tain Pat Mitsch. "It affected both 
tPams' play." 
Dospite ad verse conditions. 
Team Girth put on a strong per­
formance, defeating the A-team 
21-15. Mitsch lf'd the team with 
12 rebounds. 
Kiss and Tell and Kareem, 
Worthy, and 3 0thors Who Play 
With a Magic Johnson III: lfoturn 
of the One-Eye matched up for a 
fun competition. 
"Neither team was very good," 
said Kiss and Tell captain Bob 
Connamo. "It was a lot of fun, 
though. Both teams were just out 
for a good time." 
Kiss and Tell finislrnd with the 
21-15 win. 
"Our biggest strength was our 
big man inside, Pat Schlehuber," 
said Cenname. ''We just gave it 
to him and let him get tlrn job 
done." 
The final games of the prelimi­
nary round will be playod today 
on the Stepan and McGlinn bas­
kotball courts beginning at 4 
p.m. 
As the preliminary round lin­
ishes, tlw tournamcmt's top sncds 
will hit tho court this wmikcnd in 
the round of 512, hoping to start 
their runs for the finals. 
No. 1 Primetimn squares off ag11inst Fart, Fart, Fart, Poop, No Comment on Saturday at 11 a.m. on the Stepan courts. Primetime, looking tn defend its 1998 cham­. pionship title, returns four of five players to tho lineup. The tmuns strong guard-orientc~d style of play and years of' experience will be a tough match for the inexpe­
rienced challengers. 
"None of us play basketball," 
said senior Casey Burns, captain 
of Fart, Fart, Fart, Poop, No 
Comment. "We're just looking to 
¦ SPORTS BRIEFS
Froo Books

...·as atree lunch." 
Casting and Angling -A butparticipants should bring
Froo Electroulcs 
clinic will be offered on personal equipment if possible.
I ----~ ­
free Videos 

Tuesday and April 20, from 6-More information is available 
free ,\irllne Tickets 
7:15 p.m. in the Joyce Center at RecSports at 631-6100. and at campus lakes. There is .Kayaking -Registration is 
-'· ~!fee.\ 
an $8 class fee. Participants being held at RecSports for should register in advance at four pool sessions and a one­
If you can answer some questions 
RecSports. Dan Bucha, certified day excursion. Classes will be American Casting Association held Monday and Thursday
and surf the i.veb, it's just a click away 
instructor, wrn ·· 1ead ·· three and April 19 and 22, at Rolfs evenings of bait casting, fly. Aquatic Center, from 7 to 10
www.memolink.com casting, spinning and fishing. p.m. Class size is limited. The Equipment will be provided, cost is $15. Questions should
GET FREE STUFF. NOW. 

A concert of Indian Classical Music 
featuring 
lrshad Khan -SITAR 
accompanied by 
Ramdas Palsule -Tabla 
Friday, April 9, 1999 
8:00 p.m. 
at the Auditorium, Hesburgh Center for International Studies, University of Notre Dame 
Sponsored by: Th~ lndi.1 Association of Notre Dame & Office of' International Student Affairs The Asian Indian Classical Music Society of Michiana The Juan B. Kroc Institute for lnlrrnatiunal Pea,·" Studies 
ND/SMC Faculty & Staff: $5 Students: Free Contact: Amltova Dull (631-6335) 
have a good time." 
While the team might rnsdrnd­ulo and play on Sunday, Primetime may havn to play down ono man in tho opening round bocause team mnmbnr Kevin Ilughcs is out or town. Tlw tfiam is not concerned about playing only four and sonms con­fident in its ability. 
"Our higgnst asset is our llmrn continuity. Wn'rn l'rim1ds on tho court and we're friends off tlw court," said Pri1111itinrn captain Hamn .Jani. "Wn're always going to gc\t outsized, but what we lack in hoight we make up for with quickrwss." 
Keyplay.com, at tlrn second­seed spot, will face Shut Your Mouth and Know Your Hole at 2 
p.m. at Stnpan on Saturday. Thn members of' Shut Your Mouth and Know Your Holo said they arn not intimidatnd by their draw in the first round. 
"It's going to be a tough chal­lengo, but it takns a lot of' the pressure off of us and puts it on them," said captain Chris Jackson. "We've got nothing to lose and they have (:verything. Wn're taking the gamo snriously: We've got liv11 guys that can do everything with a baskdball." 
Hankod third, Malicious Prosecution, which has its sights set beyond tile opm1i11g rounds of the tournamnnt, will play Something Stupid Likn Chncknrs. The two tnams will match up on the Stnpan courts at 12:30 p.m. Saturday af'tornoon. 
At No. 4, En Fuego. led by senior Irish starting cPntPr Phil Hickey, will meet Head Protection at 11 a.m. at Lyons on Saturday. 
"We hav11 rnally good balanc11 and so we should bn abln to g11t things done on the insid11 and tlw outsid11," said En Ftwgo captain Mike Bernd. "W11 should be able to give otlrnr loams some prob­lems defensively, and with Phil in the middle, it should shut down the inside." 
The games in the round of 512 will last until Wednesday. 
be directed to the HecSports office at 631-6100. 
Christmas In April Benefit Run will be held on Saturday. at 11 a.m. Participants should meet at Stepan Center for a 5K or lOK run or two-mile walk. T-shirts go to all finishers. 
Cost is $6 in advance or $7 the day or the race. Registration is available at HecSports. All proceeds will benefit Christmas in April. 
The Observer. We've got issues. 

Graduation Weekend Make your reservadon• nowr Open on Sunday 12 to 9 for thl• special occuion 
Servloi Fresh prepared Pa¦ ta cU1he•, Veal, Chicken, Seafood and Steak Also, TracUdonaJ and Deep 
Di ¦h Pizza Dial Phane 11.ppedt, '74-0900 catepry 11466 for 1110..., Info. 
Downtown South Bend 235 S. Michl.an St. 
..
2ll•IOOO 1 Reservations recommended 


r---­
page 28 The Observer• SPORTS Frida~April 9, 1999 
I 
1 Lacrosse 
continued from page l 
very talented cr<\asc guy. Thes<i guys play off om• anothP.r really well." 
Besides tlwir strong attack. thn llovas also fralure :m exlrPmPIV deep midffold with 14 players that have played in every game. 
(;reg llubschmann. Mikn 1lenPhan and Tyler Gamble lead the unil with a combined 36 points. Freshman midfieldPr Steve Dusseau, brother of Irish rn-captain snnior Chris IJussPau, has play<•d well for the 1-loyas, contributing four points in four games. 
The responsibility ror shutting down this high-powered attack will fall onto tlrn shoulders of co­captain David Biddison and tho rest of' the Irish defense. Notre Dame will look to slow the Hoyas down and not allow them to play a widP-open stylP. 
"We have to stop tlwm in tran­sition," Anderson said. "We need to make them work for their goals and not allow them any easy goals." 
Irish goaltrndr,r Kirk Howrll will also be called upon for another strong game. llowell, a junior and first-ynar starter. has put together a solid season for the Irish in the cage. His 8.49 goals against average is good for 15th-best in the nation. 
"He has played extremely well up to this point," Anderson said. "They have some talented shoot­ers, so he is delinitely going to see some shots. It will be a big game for him." 
Key to stopping the Iloya offense may lie in the Irish offense. 
If Notre Dame can hold onto the ball and limit the Hoya pos­sessions, they will be able to con­trol the pace and tempo or the game. 
"When we have the ball, they ca11·t score," Anderson said. "So we arc going to do some things offensively to shut them down. We need io conu·ol the ball and have longer possessions to gen­erate scoring chances and give our defonse a break." 
Dusseau and sophomores David Ulrich and Tom GlatzPI lead an Irish nffonse that has been very streaky in the past two games. In games against Hofstra and Butler, the Irish were behind before a late offensive surge got Notrn Dame back in the game. The Irish cannot all'ord to fall behind against the Ilovas. however. 
"l'he is something we want to stay away from," Anderson said. "They have thl) capability of blowing a game open if they get up a couple of goals. We want to get out to a good start and get some good scoring opportunities early. Then we can maintain our game-plan of getting good pos­sessions and controlling the 
ball." 
Senior prcseason honorable mention All-American goalie Brian l lole and a physical Hnya defense stand between the Irish attack and the nrt. 
"!The Georgetown def'ense­men] are not a bunch of guys that are going to come out and take th<. ball awav from vou with big flashy checks," A11derson said. "ThPy are going to be aggressive ¼ith their bodies and are going to be a very physical team." 
The Irish have the talent on offense to overcome the physical play of Georgetown. 
Ulrich leads the team in points with 35 and stands at fifth in the nation in assists per game with 
2.88. Dusseau -a preseason honorable mention All-American -needs only one more goal to get 100 in his career. 
¦ WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
High-scorers aim to up streak 
By GENE BRTAUK 
Sporn Writer 

Riding its second throe-game win streak of the season, the high-powered Notre Dame women's lacrosse team rdurns home this weekend to face Davidson and Denver. 
The Irish enter the weekend with a 6-2 record and arc the highest scoring offense in the NCAJ\s with 14.71 goals per ganrn. 
Tonight the team takes on the Davidson Wildcats, who enters on a recent four-game home stretch, in which they went 3-1 and now stand at 5-7 on the season. 
Leading the Wildcat attack are Lauren Kenchington with 27 goals and 16 assists and Linda Hothemund, who has scored 2(} times and dished off 21 assists. 
Both will be eager to score on an Irish defonse that has been stingy as of late. Goa.ltendnr Carrie Marshall is coming off a 31-save performance last week­end, defoating Villanova and Pennsylvania. 
Notre Dame and Davidson have split the first two meetings between the teams -Davidson won in 1997 by a score of 21-7 and the Irish exacted revenge last year outscoring the Wildcats 18-11. 
The teams have had three common opponents this year as Davidson beat Richmond (10-9) and Villanova (14-6) but lost to Ohio State {9-10). Nntre Dame has faired the same against all three teams with scores of 14­13, 15-9, and 12-15, respective­ly. 

The Denver Pioneers travel to sivc categories. Notre Dame on Sunday to take Sophomore sensation Lael on the Irish in a 1 p.m. game. O'Shaughnessy and her 34 
With a 4-(1 mark, the Pione1irs goals rank hnr in the top four of look to climb to the .500 mark goals pllr game with 4.25 while when they leave South Bend, her 5.125 points a ganw put playing Davidson on Saturday lwr in tlw top five. and the Irish on Sunday. Teammate K1\1Ty Callahan. 
The Irish will µay special who currently has a 22 ganw attention to Denver sophomore scoring strnak, is first in assists Nicole Wittelsberger, who leads per game with 2.71 and eighth the country in goals with 42 in points per game with 4.86. and is fifth in points per game Last weekend the Irish exe­with 5.56. cuted the game plan they had 
The Irish are currently 2-0 been practicing the whole sea­all-time against Denver with son, building early leads in both victories of 15-4 in 1997 and games and then letting the 19-5 last year. defense take ovpr the game and 
While Denver's Wittelsberger preserve the win. is nationally ranked in two sta­Two more wins this weekend tistical categories, Notre Dame will guarantee a third-straight has two players who each rank winning season for Notre in the top 10 in multiple offen-Dame. 

rriJay, April 9, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 29 
¦ SOFTBALL 
Conference opponents await ND on East Coast trip 

Irish chipped away al the lead "tie's been our key HBI guy
Baseball 
with two runs each in tlrn for us this week," Ust said. "He's fourth, fifth and sixth innings been providing us some key
continued from page I 
boforn putting the game away in runs in thesn past few games." the Pighth. Catcher Jeff Wagner has alsotlll'm. Wn'll just havP to go out 
While the Irish have used provided some key offense for 
tlH•n• and do Urn IH•st we ran." 
their offensive clout to rally the squad. J\.fter missing much 
I\Pn•ntly. "tlw lwst" has boen back to victory, a large shar11 of of March with a foot injury, the 
Pxciting romoback victories. 
the credit goes to junior Jeff senior stepped back into the 
Wcd1wsdav. tlw t1H1111 us11cl a FPlker. The first basnman lineup against Connecticut ins1•vl'n-run· eighth inning to rncently shared Big East player dramatic fashion by connecting
ddPat Bowling (;rnon, 14-10 for 
ol' the we1ik honors with on his first pitch deep to leftits I0th 1:onwhack victory of the Pittsburgh senior second base­finld for a home run. 
snason. 
man Lou Melucci. Felker went Wagner has hit five home Tlw Falcons usnd a sev(m-run 10-l'or-17 on the week. with two runs in the past four games,third inning to claim a 9-1 !Pad 
home runs, thnm doubles and boosting his career total to 48,going into tlw l'nurth, but llrn 
four HBI. slightly ahead of Ust's 43 
invites applications from undergraduates with special 
interests in the intersecting areas of political philosophy, 
political theory, and economic analysis. Every year about 
twenty highly motivated and talented student are admit­
ted to PPE. Check it our to see ifit is for you. Many of 
our students go on to careers in law, public policy, or the 
academy. If you are looking for 
l. an integrated approach to politics and justice, without all the requirements of a second major, and 
2. an intellectual community of faculty and students who share your interests, the PPE wants you! 
For more information, rnntact either Professor David O'Connor, Philosophy DrpL, 
O'Co1111or.2@nd.cclu. or Professor John Roos, Govcrnmmt Dept., Roos. l@nd.edu. For tin· inside story. you ran also contact one of our studmt advisers, seniors and PPE 
Vl'tl'rans John Schuessler a( Sdmcsslcr. l@nd.edu or Cara Ciuffani at 
Ciuffani. I@rnl.cd11. 
For an e-mail a11plirntio11, simply send arequest to ProfessorJohn Roos, 
Rnos. l@nd.edu. You may also pick up a paper application outside Professor Roos's 
office, Decio 121. The application deadline is noon on April 12. Acceptances will be 
;11mou11n· by S PM April 12. 
By MATT OLIVA 
Sports Writer 
The Irish have a tough task ahead of tlrnm, traveling east to play four games in the next two days against conl'eruucc oppo­nents. 
Notro Dame will take on Hutgers Saturday in N(!W .lnrscy and then travel to 1'1)nnsylvania to take on Villanova on Sunday. Tim Irish (23-15, 2-0) will try to stay undeli:atcd in Big East play during these four games. 
"We have a very competitive weekend ahnad of' us," said head roarh 1.iz Mil11!r. "/\II three teams look equal." 
On Saturday the Irish will play a strong Hutgcrs team. 
"Tlrny have very explosive players," said Miller. "One or their pitchers thrPw a nn-hittor against us last year, so it should be a tough gamo." 
Hutgers is curn;ntly 13-13 on the season and. 1-1 in the Big East. They split a doubleheader against Villanova earlier this season. 
Villanova toam that tlw Irish will play on Sunday leads the r,ountry in hatting average. The Wildcats have three players that are currently hitting over .400. They also have one player that has maintained a batting aver­age over ,500 for the season. 
"The key for us will bn to stay loose. espocially with our bats," said Miller. "That is our strength and we are a tough tnam wlwn we are swinging tho bat. 1r we get uptight, then that changes and makes it harder on us." 
Tho Irish have f'ivn playors batting ov1ir .:mo. and .ll'll Sharron is throe points away with a .297 batting aVPrngn. T 
ho Irish squad has also hit 17 homo runs, which <'quals a tPam record. and am led by Kris McCleary·s six hornn runs. Jarrah Myers and Lizzy Lmnirl' both are key part. of' tlrn Irish offnnsivo attack. 
Frnshman My11rs loads 1111' team in hitting with a .:t'i7 avnr• ago and in HBls with 24. Lemire• is hilling .:15h with 18 HBls and a LPam-leading nill(' doubles. The two also havn combined liir livn home runs. 
/\notlrnr koy for tlin Irish this weekend will be Urn Sharron's µitching. 
Sho was namnd Big East Pluym· of the Wenk after record­ing two wins against Pittsburgh last wc11k. 
The Irish will have to sen how many innings she can givn thnm. Since her injury, she has not pitched much despite her efforts against Pittsburgh. 
clingers. Heading into this week­end's series, Wagner is four home runs behind current major leaguer Mo Vaughn, who had 26 home runs in a confer­ence regular season with the Seton Hall Pirates. 
While most or the team will be healthy for this weekend's series, freshman third baseman Andrew Bushey recently was given three to four weeks on the disabled list for a knee injury suffered on March 20 against West Virginia. 
Fortunately for the team. junior Jeff Pnrconte has stepped 
into the position admirably. In his last eight games, the Illinois native has .458 with two home runs and eight HBI. 
"We've been doing all right. thanks to him," Usl said. "Jelrs been doing a good job. It's tough for him, since he's boen used to playing in the outfield. but hn's bnen able to provide." 
As for the series between the Irish and the Panthers, tho two teams are slated to clash on Saturday with a doubleheader at noon. 
They will meet again for a finaln on Sunday at noon. 
... 
.. 
.. 
The Observer/Liz Lang 

A relatively healthy Irish team will look to keep to gain some consistan­cy and avoid close-call wins as they play host to the Panthers. 
Save the Earth. Recycle The Observer. 
r ­

f 
page 30 The Observer• SPORTS Friday, April 9, 1999 
¦ ON TH£ HOT CORtJER 

Final words on baseball's first trip into Cuba 
By BRIAN CHURNEY 
Sports Columnist 
0.K., I must admit it. Among the seemingly endless barrage of papers and tl'sts that my professors have graciously giv1m me, I have some time out for myself to think about something that's been bother­ing me for a rouple of weeks. 
For those of you who have been living under a stack of papers, I'll quickly fill you in. A week and a half ago. Major LMguA Haseball visited that land filled with evil spirits, dangerous militants and. even worse. communists. It's also known as Cuba. 
After careful thought on the subject. I'm still very confused and have a few concerns about a lot of the happenings within and surrounding the game. So I made a list of questions and concerns that I have been try­ing to address. · 
I don't understand how any­one can foe! that this was "just another game." Several of the ballplayers were quoted as saying it was just baseball, no politics. 
Yeah, and (Wery spring training game is fought for with similar emphasis put upon winning, especially when its only days before the begin­ning of a long and grueling schedule. 
The next thing you're going to tell me is that we boycotted the 1980 Olympics because we felt it was too cold in Moscow. Now don't get me wrong, I also often dream about living in an ideal world, where sports can transcend politics. 

But realistically, if you didn't think this game was signifi­cantly political, then I'!I trade you a Brien Taylor rookie card for one of those Alex Rodriguez cards straight across. 
Everyone in America, minus a few Oriohi-haters. wanted to win that game to prove American superiority over the nation of Fidel. 
We wanted to win the game and make a statement about the value of America. l don't understand, Lhen, why we sent the Orioles. 
I mean, no offense to Oriole fans, but to send a team that historically overpays and then under-achieves seems down­right silly to me. 
Call me crazv, but shouldn't we have sent either a team like the Indians, Braves, and Yankees to dominate the game and prove that American base­ball is the greatest in the world or a team like the Brewers, Marlins, or Devil Ravs to lose miserably, and art as ·a good will measure? 
The choice of the Orioles brings to mind other questions as well. This is the team with Albert Belle in left field. 
Wasn't anyone just a little bit scared that Albert would respond to one of Castro's characteristic steely-eyed glares with one of his charac­teristic fastballs in the chest from left field? We could have had another massacre similar to the Bay of Pigs on our hands. 
Boy, was I happy when the Orioles traded Roberto Alomar to the Indians. At least Albert's ball might leave him unconscious. I don't think he would have been fazed by Alumar's saliva. 
Speaking of the danger involved in playing in Cuba, did Major League Umpires really think that they were hurting the teams by choosing not to participate? 
Did they happen to forget the near-riot they incited in Game One of the World Series by apparently taking a nap dur­ing the 2-2 pitch to Tino Martinez? Or how about rob­bing McGwirf' of a home run that would have made 7 l the magic number? 
Or on a more personal note, when Jeffrey Maier stole an out and the series from the Orioles in 1996'! 
Did they honestly think that the Orioles were going to be upset that they couldn't come? They were probably thrilled that Cuban umpires would be working the game despite the potential for bias. 
On a different note, didn't those Cuban umpires look like they v.-ere in a lot better shape than our American prototype'? 
So we made a good decision in leaving the umpires at home. Why then couldn't we leave Joe Morgan with them? 
I think he had a hard time rumbling on about his "Big Red Machine" when he was surrounded by so many Reds ... literally. Did we really want him to be the voice of such a historic occasion? Maybe we were hoping he'd be caught up in customs or something. 
Why couldn't the U.S., in a gesture of good will, give the Cuban players real hats? Surely one of those multi-mil­lionaires could have splurged and bought non-mesh hats for their Cuban opponents. 
l understand that Cuba's rid­dled with poverty, but come on fldel, at least allow your play­ers the self-respect of wearing wool hats. 
J-iorgive me if I'm wrong, hut hasn't the U.S. been trying to assassinate Castro for like 50 years now? 
I remember hearing some­one quoted as saying, "Castro won't la.st a week." And Hon Powlus will win three Heismans. Where's Beano when you need him? 
But really, whether you agree or disagree with lhe CIA's actions, the fact remains that there is not a man in the Western Hemisphere they'd rather gel. rid of. Wasn't Bud Selig sitting next to him? 
While he may not be on the ClA's list, I'd argue that he's nearIv as much of a threat to America as Castro. We could have killed two birds with one stone. Thev must not make snipers like they used Lo. 
Or perhaps, Selig's belting out of the national anthem in Castro's ear was a punishment worse than death? 
I'm a little confused as to why Castro filled the stadium with his supporters. Did he think that because 40,000 Cubans chanted his name, the 
U.S. would suddenly realize that he's not so bad of a guy'? Plenty of people chanted the name of David Koresch, but that doesn't make him a lov­able creature. 
I don't understand how any­one that watched the game could ever claim that a base­
ball game is inherently not fun. 
Remember that those screaming, chanting, singing fans weren't even the "real baseball fans." It looked to me like they were having a decent time. Maybe, it's the audiences fault rather than thn game itself. 
I don't understand how any­one couldn't have had his/her heartstrings pulled on a littlo bit. Seeing all of the people, overcome by poverty, but still able to 1rnjoy "America's game" made me rnalize how lucky we really are. 
Can you imagine playing on asphalt with a lead pipe as a bat and a wadded up rag as a ball? I know, I can't. 
These people know some­thing that we Americans often forget. (Warning: I'm getting up on my soapbox and begin­ning to preach.) 
Happiness is not a !'unction of the titanium alloy in your bat or the logo on your cleats. Happiness is in the game itself ... the game of baseball ... the game of life. Happiness is a function of sharing something special, a common bond, with your fellow man. 
Finally, with all or the good that came out of this trip to Cuba and the _joy that we brought to a people that often experience countless tragedy and hardships, I don't under­stand how anyone can regret this trip or be against this game. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

~'V<e 1nej1<0>ll<C(e V\Vlltlht tlht<e if<o1l1l<oV\v[.1ng 1nnt(e1nndh<e1r§ (Qdf ttlhl<e N(Qlltlr<e ]0)1aunrn<e 
f;aunndily <dl§ ttlhuey 1nec<eit.v<e t]h1<e §(-atc1r"<-aunnue1nut <oif <C(QlJndfiunnrn1-allttL(QlJrnY 
These men and women will receive the SacramentltlH[JE <CANJD)J(JD)A1rJE§ ofConfirmation on Monday, April 12 at 7·30 
p.m. in the Basilica ofthe Sacred Heart.
& their sponsors 

KELLY ANDREWS 
.. 

~ : Christine Million Passe l CASSANDRA BOLZ Tina Villalobos 
DERRICK lB\RAVO 
Angela Anderson 
CASEY HURNS 
Christine Ehlinger 
JOSEPH COLLINS 
Tony McCanta 
LAURA DELLA.MARIA 
Erin Haag 
MEGHAN DEVINE 
Eileen Rocchio 
MEGHAN DOYLE 
AmyBosanac 
A.NT0NIO DUARTE 
Samuel Vasquez 
BRENDAN EGAN 
Molly Hodak 
KATHLEEN FANNING 
Michael Fanning 
MELISSA GARCIA 
Lourdes Gomez 
DORELL GARCIA 
Daniel Matejek 
COLLEEN GrAUGHEN 
Andrew Boyd 
RYAN GAUL 

Timothy Stuhldreher 
CHRISTOPHER GONZALEZ 
Tobin Rachford 
ANDREA GONZALEZ 
Christine Million Pa,;se 
CAROLINE GRADY 
Jennifer Johnson 
KEVIN )HlALEY 
Michael Hickey 
MARTIN HERRERA 
Chari.es Funk 
K>\TE JETT 

Matthew Biergans 
JASON JORDAN 
Brian Morten 
JASON KEITH 

Salvadora Hernandez 
RYAN KUCHLER 
Patrick McKeever 
JASON LEUNG 
Mandy Reimer 
MARTHA MATA 
Angela Eversgerd 
§HAY MclLEAN 
Heather Donavan 
18\RENT MOBERG 
Joseph Hauser 
)[ULIA MONCZUNSKI 
Barbara Searle 
JOSEPH NAPOLITANO 
Nick Rosato 

CHRISTOPHER O'MALLEY 
Allan Huebner 
KATHARINE ORTEGA 
Nathaniel Hannan 
JOSEPH JP'EACE 
Gregory Weber 
CHRISTINE lPOHLMAN 
Lisbeth Vasquez 
GITA lPULLAPILLY 
Kelly Fitzpatrick 
JESSICA PURCELL 
Brett Gansen 

JACLYN REY-HIPOLITO 
Vanessa Villalpando 
DANE RODRIGUEZ 
Michael Stevens 
CHRISTINA RORICK 
Patsy Bohrs 
NEAL §ALISAN 
Steven Koeth 
!FRANCISCO §ANTONI 
Colleen Knight 
JOSEPH §AWYER 
Joan Gallagher 
STEPHEN MATTHEW SCHACHT 
Ryan Waod 
MARISSA §IMS 
Patricia Sevilla 
CHRISTOPHER SINNOTT 
Thomas Prall 
THOMAS §TUDEBAKER 
Daniel Luzietti 
MARGARET STUTZ 
Danielle Moore 
TIMOTHY SULLIVAN 
Laura Threadgold 
MEGAN SWEENEY 
Mndy Watkins 
KATHERINE TORRENCE 
Anne Furey 
ALBERT VITTER 
Margaret Egan 
KELLY WILLIAMS 
Kevin McManus 
-

-
.. 
MELISSA GARRIDO SHANE McGoNEGLE SEAN THOMAS RYKER. 
Patrick Fannon john Inftanca Russell Chiappetta 0MPU5 
tv11Nl5TRY 



--. 
hiday, April 9, I999 The Observer• TODAY page 31 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

DAN SULLIVAN HOROSCOPE . EUGENIA LAST
SLURRED SPEECH 

Clll:HIUTIES HOHN ON THIS DAY. 1lugh I lctn,·r. ll.11 l(,•tchum, Dt··1rn1,;; (Ju,lld, l',.ndin,, f't1n1Jrnva, (\1UI J-.:rn:..:-int•1 
Happy Birthday: \\1u will h,l\"l' ,1 g,~md 0\'l1 lllr i1w1;1!-.t1m•nts tl~is yt•,1.r. 'rou 1wi.1d to !t•arn to rda, ,1 htth• It~ tin11• In get lnlP •wH-impnwenwnl 
1roit'i."h !lut \\'Ill n•~ult in bettt•r
1
wulth t1nt1 a lrlmmt•1 lol1k. You will hi'tv1· probkm:.. \11.'ith th11~• individual-. who want tn bc1ck v11u inlo a conwr Tr} In ~H·o1d i~mtltHmal turmn1l at ,'loll c11st:-. Ymtr rn1mix•r;;: 8, 21, 27, 35, 
41. 47 ARIES !March 21-Apri! 19): Pm~­
lem!--with your m,1h..· will comt• to ., hei.ld if y,rn hd\'cn't paid enough attcntHm to him or hl'r. financial limi­tations may rau~ti frw;,trations when 
trying l(1 achit..'VL' Vl,ur goals. 00 
-TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't bother trving to get othc.lr~ tu undt'rstand your reason~ for doin~ 

FOXTROT BILL AMEND 
g things. Wtirl-. dili~ently on your cu...•n and ,lV<lid getting dragged into con· 
"Co"'1PuTERS FoR CoLLEGE· 
WHAT A8oUT JUST 8uY E 
EDUCATED PR0FESS10NALS "UNt\lERS1T'!'­THE Boo)<, 
vers.1tiuns that wiil lead onlv to feuds
00000 .

WHo MAJ'oREO IN niE EDUCATED"'? DAD. 
GEMINI (M•y 21-June 20): Tm,

HUMANITIES ~.~cl< BEFoRE ~ 1,1 n.;. 1,.._ 
much too fasl Slow down; rou•n., m,t

P.C.s EXISTED . No, BUT ( --::. 
~p 
in a ran• Jnd VilU don'! have to mah• a dcci:..inn nght nrn\.·. Don't kt others try lo fore(' i!->~111..•s. You havt> to 1..fo 
WE Do HAVE "FoR DIJMMtEs;· j ; 
thin~s ;.lt ynur u,,·n ::.peed 000 
CANCER {June 21-July 221: Gel your h<1L1s1..• in order. Some family mrmber~ may tw up:<.l't with tht:' dt•ci­s10ns \'<Hi'n.• making. Yuu must tollm-\' vnur ·,mnincts i,nd do what's iw,eh, ~ary t•,·en 1i you gl1l some opposition ODO 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 221: Opportu nitil'... ror c1d\'rmn1rncnt ,irt.' cvid~•nl. You can s,.lrl uul your pt•rsonal and prok•sstonal mh.-ntion:,; by !a]king tu thns,1.1 1n a p,1:-.1l1nn h1 bC' nbjr-ctt\'t..' and

DILBERT Scon ADAMS 
hone~L 000 
VlllGO CAu1_1. 23-Sept. 22): You 


AND I BELI.EVE COl='FEE TA5TE$ 
¦ OF INTEREST 

6E.TTER ti= YOU 
A Social Concerns course book is available for all
5TIR IT WITH 
interested students and faculty at the Cuntnr for Social

'<OUR FING~R. 

Concerns and at the offices of Campus Ministry. The course book is the fall edition and is entitled, "Social Concerns: Courses with Experiential, Survite-Learning and Community-based Learning." 
ND Junior Shay McLean, piano, will present a solo recital this evening at 6 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Faculty Lounge. The program includes selections by JS 
Hach, Beethoven. Schumann, Brahms. Debussy and Liszt.
------....;"'-----...i....c;.....-..1"-----'~~l-.-~........~.....-IM=...i.--~M~-,_-...;;.~.........~.........-....._~ 
attachment 22 Parisian pronoun 
s1 16th-century Italian composer, subfectofa 1917 German opera 
53 Former insider 55 Gardener. at 
times 56 Year Martial died 57 Middle weight? 59 Floor 61 One way to ship 62 Mead base 63 Kitchen utensil 64 Suffix with Capri 65 Think pieces? 66 Starting points 
DOWN 

1 Difference In apparent d1rect1on, In astronomy 
2 City NE of Kangaroo Island 3 Windfalls 4 Overseas title 
Abbr. s Goes public 6 1950's cold war 
development 7 L1v1ng room? B 1921 hit piano 
tune 

9 Sutt,x with sulf • 1o Hardly drab 11 Kind of 
helicopter 12 State 
2s Water gate 26 Part of it is draped over the shoulder 
32 Hurricane hdg 
34 Ring letters 
37Lowdown 
JB What a portion of all wages goes for J9 Sweated 40 Conferences 41 House of two Henrys 43 Successor to Salyut 7 

The recital is f'ree and open to the public; please call 631 • 6201 for more information. 
ND Grad student Gail Freudenberg. mezzo-soprano, 
presents a solo recital this ewming at 7 :30 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Alumna Sheree Wesenberg will accompany on the piano; also assisting are Greta Mikelonis, clarinet; A.J. Wrape, flute; and Simone Uranovsky, ceUo. The program includes songs by Scarlatti, Durante, Conti, Schumann, Ravel and Mozart. The recital is free and open to the public; please ca.II 631­6201 for more information. 
ND Grad student Magnus Hillbo, tenor. presents n solo recital on April 10 at noon in the Annen berg Auditorium of the Snii.e Museum of Art. Graduatt~ student Larry Taylor will accompany on the piano; ND senior .foff Cloninger, tenor, will also assist. The program includes songs by Wolf, Faure, Brahms, Debussy, Gershwin, Irving Berlin and Frank Laesser. The recital is free and open to the public; please call 631-6201 for more information. 
Philip Myers, principal horn of the New York Philharmonic, presents a concert on April 11 at 2 p.m. in Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum of Art. I le will be accompanied by guest pianist Virginia Perry Lamb and ND faculty violinist Carolyn Plummer. The pro• gram includes TRIO for Violin, Horn and Pinno by Maurice Havel. ALPHA by Jean-Michel Defaye and THIO Op. 40 for Violin, !lorn and Pi:wo by .Johannes Brahms.
44 Violinist 54 Classic soft Georges dnnk 
Tickets [$3-$10) are available at the LaFortunf' Box 
Office. Please call (131-6201 for more information.
45 Bombshell. so to 
58 ·· und speak 
ND Grad student Joshua Foster. piano, presents a solo
Verklarung·· 

46 Game keeper? (Richard Strauss 
recital April 10 at 2 p.m. in the Anncnberg Auditorium of 
opus)48 Peer Gynt's 

the Snite Museum of Art. Mogan Murphy, violin, und 
mother 60 Pearl Bailey s 
Annie Chang, cello, will assist. The program includes 
52 Game keepers? middle name 
selections by JS Bach, Schubert, Albeniz. Liszt nnd Joaquin Turina. The rocital is free and open to thP pub­
lic. Call 631-6201 for more information.
Answers to any three clues In this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone· 
A Concert of Indian classical musk featuring lrshad 
1-900-420-5656 (95c per minute) 
Khan on Sitar will be held in the auditorium of the 
Annual subscriptions are available for the 
Hcsburgh Insititutc at 8 p.m. today . 
best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50years 1-686-7-ACROSS. 
2$ 
8:00 10:3 

m,l\' hl' it h!tlt.• ..-011tu!-.t.'l1 ~1~l\Ut vom pl•r,011.:il Ith• ii ,onw,11w fmm ymu pas! li,,i-w,1/t1.t•d b,1d, 11ntn !ht' ,;:n•rw f1on't iw trn1 wilhri~ 1<1 ~1\'l' up wh,1t vuu'\"t• ~or You 1'l'l'd to qur:.rum yuur 
nltlfl\'l'!-, 00000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0c!. 22): Sign up h1r ,·oltmtt·l'r \\"ork Ynu'll m,•t•l inlt.•r­t.'!-,llllg l"l'()rh· .,nd ~·m1'II rl•CI guud about )'1.,ur~•lf \:,t.;"('au~t.• yuu,'vt1 }w\pPd o!lwr... You ran ma~•· u ditt~•l't..1nrt' b\ 1,ft'l•nt1~ ,·our tnnt.• ,l.nd vour kindnt'"" 00 
SCOl(PlO CO<t. 23-Nov. 211: Catch up {'fl rour rl'.iding. Tlw knnwlt•d~t• \'llU obt..im will ht•lp you tn,)n• th.,n yt)LI think. St.1mt'(llll'" vm1 though! \'tlll could tru~! may_ lt'l 'you down h-l'l.'\' vuur pr1\'dll' attain lt..l \'OUl'>Wlf 0000 
. SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22·Dec. 21): Sudden d1;1n,ges rrgard ing you, iinann•s, ma\' cause lrustralion i.1nd anxit•t,·. Dnn'I bt' too hars.h wht•n dcalini ,-..•ith tlms{' y,1u love. Lim1fa· h1,.1n-; due h1 n•IJ.t1vcs can be ('Xpt..>ctl'd 
000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-.Jan. 19): F.rrati..-b~hdv1or by your mate will ll"ad to quid, dt!cisions Jnd changes in vmir li\'1n~ .urangemenb. C"onsid­l'r going for profossmnal h1.•lp it you ,,·ish to hdld rour R'iation.ship togl•tb­
er 000 
i'.QUAIUUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Yt,ltr \..'mohl1ri..,f partnt>r may bt• lonk in~ tl,r .11, <'\nt~ to ar~ue. l1on'1 ht.• Cllt..•rccd u,tn "'urh enrounttr!,,. Tra\1t.•I npportt1n1t1_t•~ '"i'il) Unn~1you,,inlo;·lm· 11 tacl with tnlf'rl''-tlf1A 11H.i1vHfual's 
000 
l'ISCl, (l'eb 19-Marrh 201: l<l"lit•coraun~ will p,1\' off. !ic..•lp tlio!'>l' incapabll· ,11 takmg ,an• ol tlw-ir own tin,1nt'1al .rnd pt1rf.onal ,1fJ.11rs Rewards tor p,1st ~l1od dt'l'lb will ht• 
1•ours. 0000 
-
-
-

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Big name In beer 6 ··cooperstown 
star. 1993 ff Toothdr ·sorg 14 Be taken with 15 Pico de 
(12,000-foot volcano on the Canary Islands) 
16 Snaps 11 K1dneylike 10 Master 
manipulator 20 vapeur 
(steamed) 21 Cap 23 Pigeonhole 24 Earth movers 21 ·· -Team·· 20 With al 
(1972Emmy­wInrnng show) 
29 Extended operatic solo 30 Drove 31 "Gunsmoke·· Doc JJ Like high-slrung horses 35 Letters in some ratings 
36 Literally_ "traveling companion" 
38 Relief provider? 
41 Small-lime 
42 Watch name 
since 1894 
44 1997 Philip Kerr best-selling mystery 
47 Fighter of the Sioux 
49 Teen -­
so This may be hard to date 




PORTS 
O 
THF 

page 32 BSERVER Friday, April 9, 1999 

¦ BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
By KERRY SMITH happy with the win, but plans to play Spom Wri1er better in coming rounds. UWe didn't perform well as a team 
Despite rain late in the afternoon, today," said WPO IV captain Stephen the I 9'J9 Bookstore Basketball XXVIII Bastasch. "We need to perfect our tournament got underway without a chemistry." hitch Thursday at the Stepan and Bastasi:h gave credit for the win tu McGlinn basketball courts. team member Jeff Hojnacki. 
-
Teams matched up in the first of two "We had a late pick-up: Hojnacki. Ile days of preliminary-round action look­was our ringer," said Bastasch. "We ing to advance to the round of 512. had a lot of fast breaks and gave the Donning fluorescent pink uniforms, ball to him." the members of WPO IV: The Final The bad weather hit just as the iinal · Thrust easilv defeated She Was How 
Old? in a 21-5 victory. The team is 
see BOOKSTORE. I page 27 
-
The Observer/Job Turner 
Five Awesome Brothers, formally Licensed to Thrill, scored one of its 21 points against Jamacian Poptart in the opening round of the tournament Thursday. 

iB 
4Aquaholics & Kina Bud def. Dunkin Deeznuts, 21-3 Fishtown University def. Inturns 4 Higher 
.. -::·:'.i/f#.' ' ,', . 
Four Pansies and a Walk-On def. 4A Good Time So Anyway...l'm At the Bank def. Back Door Penetration, 21-5 Court Doctors def. Mojo Risin' WPO IV. The Final Thrust def. She Was How Old?, 21-5 The Ill Tempered Sea Bass Who... def. The Shining, 21-16 Chest High Freshies def. Team 429, 21-8 Kiss & Tell def. Kareem, Worthy..., 21-15 Golden Shower Monkey Dos def Team 331, 21-6 Five Awesome Brothers def. Jamaican Poptart, 21-4 They Forfeited def. I love the smell of NAQAM in the a.m., 21-12 Option w/o a Future def. Long Haired Tree Huggin'..., 21-14 Morally Erect def. 4 Players & a Guy Who's Never Scored, 21-14 Return of the Nak def. Operation Orangutang, 21-3 Industrial Revolution in My Pants def. 5 Guys Under 6ft..., 21-11 Team 172 def. 5 Pairs, 21-10 Team Girth def. A-Team, 21-15 
TheObserver/Joe Mueller 

¦ BASEBALL ¦ Mm'S LACROSSE 
Pittsburgh looks to Hoyas to challenge Irish streak 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Associate Sports Editor 

change Irish luck 
By BILL HART Despite the team's strong The eighth-ranked Georgetown Associate Spom Ediror momentum heading into the Boyas bring their explosive
-
weekend, Pittsburgh has been offense to Moose Krausn Stadium While gutsy comeback perfor­the Big East's surprise team this this Saturday to face the 16th­mances have been the name of season. Heading into the week­ranked men's lacrosse team. the game for Notre Dame's end's series, the Panthers have Notre Damn will put its unde­baseball team. visiting confer­clawed their way to a 7-2 con­feated home record on the line ence rivals typically demand ference record, good enough to against the best team it will face consistent momentum. lie them with Rutgers for second at home all year. The Irish will try to combine place. The Hoyas, 5-2 on the year, guts and an energetic drive After the Scarlet Knights' are led by preseason first-team when they return to Big East three-game series against all-American and player of the action this weekend, hosting Connecticut last weekend, all year candidate Greg McCavera, Pittsburgh to a three-game three teams have a shot to cap­who leads the team with 38 series at Frank Eck Stadium. ture Notre Dame's top spot. points. The Irish (22-8) currently However, the Irish have his­Joining McCavera to form one stand in first place in the Big torically had a huge advantage of the best attacks in college East with a 9-1 conference over the Panthers. Overall, lacrosse are senior Scott Urick. record. The team has won 18 of Notre Dame has a l 0-1 record who leads the team with 2.'i its last 20 games, including against Pittsburgh, including a goals, and junior Andy Flick who sweeping two doubleheaders 2-0 sweep at Three Rivers has found the back of the net 15 against Providence and Stadium last season. times this season. Connecticut. "Last year, we experienced "They have a lot of experi­"We've just been able to go some success with them." Ust ence," assistant coach Kevin out there and do our job," junior sajd. "This year, though, they're Anderson said. "McCavora is shortstop Brant Ust sai.d. "We've second in the le: 10, and we excellent -one of the best in the been able to move guys into don't know wha. LO expect f'rom country. They generate a lot or scoring position and makp, the things through him. Urick is a 
The Observer/Job Turner 

key plays that win games." Dave Ulrich and the Irish hope to shutdown Georgetown's attack by
see BASEBALL / page 29 see LACROSSE/ page 28 
keeping the ball in their end of the field Saturday. 

vs. Georgetown 
Baseball vs. Pittsburgh

M? •
Saturday, I :30 p.m.
SPORTS 
Saturday, noon 
Softball at Alma College
ATA 
~ Saturday, 1 p.m. 

w9 vs. Davidson 
Softball at Rutgers 
Today, 7 p.m. 
Saturday, noon
GLANCE 

• 







