
¦ What do Son Vole, Dave Matthews Band, Ani 
¦ Prompted by Monday's holiday, columnists con­
Wednesday
Difranco and Tim Reynolds have in common?

tinue to explore the significance of Martin Luther 
Each has a new album reviewed in today's paper. 

King Jr. and his contributions. 
JANUARY 20,
Scene• 14-15

Viewpoint• 11-13 
1999 
THE 





The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. WWW. N D.EDU/-OBSERVER 
¦ STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS 



Clinton agenda meets civil response 
Thursday job fair offers array of summer job possibilities 
By LOUBEL CRUZ "The job fair is an event that Career and Placement nity for employers to meet with employers." News Wrirn gives Notre r>ame students the Services last October about students." Kopec encourages studcnts opportunity to meet with the fair and the response is In addition to earning a to talk with any organization 
l;or many Nolrn Dame stu­recruiters from many busi­encouraging. summer job or internship, the regardless of whether that dnnts, sumnwr brnak of'l'crs nesses and corporations," said "Some companies are regu-fair gives students the chance employer requests the stu­little time for sler.ping in or Robin Sullivan of to learn about dif-dent's particular major. rnlaxing at poolsidn. The Career and ferent careers out "Employers are looking for thrne-month vacation allows Placement of their major and the best pool of candidates
'THIS FAIR IS SPEClflCALLY FOR STUDENTS TO 
many tinrn lo work an intern­Services. "This make contact with and students should approach ship or summnr job that gives fair is specifically GAIN SUMMER INTERNSHIPS OR JOBS.' various employers. them and market them­them both needed experience for students tu "The fair is for selves," she said. and extra finances. gain summer students of all Before attending the 
Tim Care(Jr and Placement internships or ROBIN SuLI,JVAN majors and all Summer Job Fair, Career and Scrvic1is is sponsoring the jobs." C4REER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES Cm pIO y CrS," 5 aid Placement Services advises Summer .Job Fair this Approximately Rosemary Kopec, students to make background Thursday, from 1 p.rn. to 4:30 73 organizations career counselor. preparations. They suggest 
p.m. at the .loycu Clrnter to representing "Students can gain researching particular compa­assist studPnts of all majors many disciplines and profes­Jars and come to campus to information on the organiza­nies of interest in addition to and disciplinos in finding sions will attend the fair, from recruit students, but there are tions which will help later on bringing at least 10 resume employnrnnt and gaining Abbott Labs to Ford Motors to many employers who will be in the job search. But the key copies. "The resume should information about possible various insurance groups. The here just for the fair," said opportunity of the fair is for career options. employers were contacted by Sullivan. "This is an opportu-students to make contacts see INTERN / page 4 

'The state 
of our 
•

union 



is strong' 
The A-sociate<l Press 
WASIIINGTON 
Prnsidnnt Clinton, standing before a Congrnss torn ovPr his fate. proposed T1wsday to protect Social Security with tlw huge hudgnt surpluses that H1•1rnblicans are eyeing for tax cuts. lie also amHluncncl Llw government will sue tlrn tobacco industry l'or smokors' hnallh costs. 
On a day of high drama that shifted from his daytime trial in the Senate to his prime-time State of the Union address, Clinton made no mention of thn sex-and-lies case that led to his impeachment and imperils his presi­dency. 
llut with the economy booming, Clinton declared: "I stand before you tonight to report that the state of our union is strong." 
Several H!\publicans boycotted the spnnch: Chid .Justice William lfohnquist also stayed away, apparnntly deciding it would be inappropriate to altencl while prnsiding ovor Clinton's trial. 
Clinton opPnr.d his address by recall­iII g the admonition of new !louse Spmiker Drnrnis llastPrt for Hepublicans and Democrats to work in a spirit of bipartisanship and civility. "Mr. Speaker, let's do exactly that," the pres­ident said. 

AFP Photo 
President Bill Clinton delivered his sixth State of the Union address Tuesday evening amidst circumstances that may make the annual speech his last; Clinton was impeached by the House of Representatives in the same chamber exactly one month earlier. 
The president was welcomed with respectful applause in the ornate House chamber where exactly one month ago he was impeached on a party-line vote. Democrats were more enthusiastic. Two of his harshest Republican critics -!louse Majority Leader Dick Armey of Texas and House Majority Whip Tom DeLay of Texas -sat stonily side by side. 
Demanding that Washington reserve $4 trillion in expected budget surpluses to shore up Social Security and Medicare, Clinton declared, "First things first." 
In a new salvo against smoking, Clinton announced the Justice 
see ADDRESS I page 4 

;ts::Jack of tax cut 
ing and a prosperous nation's inat­
tention to the plight of the poor. 
Republicans, studiously polite dur­
. Republicans accused President ing past Clinton State of the Union .· ClintoDc of prop too much_spend-.. ···•· speeches, were noticeably more dis­iJng)inq toq:fe ·ts but general• "'tant this year, mostly keeping their 
,, ly, held their a State ofthe Union address fa.med against the · partisan divisions of the impeach­
ment trial. .·. Democrats stood by their presi­,,dent, but someliberals expressed concerns abou.t (}}"V defense spend~ 
applause short and unenthusiastic. Two House leaders who have been str!mg critics of Clinton, Majority Leader Dick Armey, H-Texns. and Rep. Tom DeLay, R-Texas, sat stiilly 
see RESPONSE Jpage 6 
page 2 
¦ INSIDE COLUMN 

No Room at ND's Inn 
Them is a wonderful song in Rent, the win­ner of the 1996 Tony for Best Musical, that goes something like this: "Christmas bells are ringing/ Chr.istmas bells are ringing/ 
Christmas bells are  
ringing/ Somewhere  Colleen Gaughen  
else. Not here ... No  Assistant Viewpoint Ediror  
room/ no room/ al the  
Holiday Inn."  

Well, Notre Dame wasn't the somewhere else, and there certainly hasn't been any room at the inn. Almost everyone has experi­enced the frustration and administrative dif­liculty that comes with leaving for and returning from a major break, and the way we are treated like children in need of babysitters is downright unfair and insulting. 
We were supposed to be out of the dorms by 5 p.m. on the Saturday after finals. At 5:30 I was just finishing packing when a member of my hall staff approached me and literally lold me to get out. Now. When I asked if I could at least grab my toothbrush. the reply was an emphatic "No." (What is WITH people denying me the basic necessities of life around here?') My llight was delayed a whole day thanks to those travel wizards at TWA, but I couldn't even spend the night in my own room. 
The dorms didn't re-open until 9:00 the Sunday morning before the semester began, and all the doors on both of our halls were padlocked tight when a friend and I drove into town after driving across the country from California. We had to wait in the freez­ing snow for over an hour before we could enter our own rooms. Another friend of mine arrived at 8:55. The security guard on duty refused to let her in and then stared at her through the window while my friend froze in the snow, only two feet from her room. 
One student who arrived a day early had to spend the night at the Knights of Columbus building because his dorm was locked, and another kid had to spend the night in his car for the same reason. We all have our stories, or have heard the stories of such ridiculous . incidents, and it all boils down to one factor: God forbid we should be treated as adults and entrusted with making our own deci­sions. 
These rules are for social regulation, not safety. So many other universities allow their students access to their rooms during breaks regardless if the hall staff is present or not. I do not fault the staff for enforcing the rules, that is its job, but I did find it rather ludi­crous when I was accused of being unfair to other residents for staying longer than allowed. Yes, I am now the target of all their wrath. They found me out! 
But what about those who really do need to stay here? Has the office of residence life ever considered those who can't afford to go home for the winter break? Or those who are estranged from their families? I just don't understand how a university that claims to embrace its students as "family" r.an be so presumptuous and unaccommodating. 
It's a new year. Maybe one of the adminis­tration's resolutions will be to starl actually caring about and listening to the travel needs of its students, especially those 11ying TWA. And being treated like an adult would be nice, too, but I'd rather lobby for something that might actually happen. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
¦ TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Scene  
Derek l:letcher  Emmett Malloy  
Maggy Tinucci  Jen Zatorski  
Laura Rompf  
Sports  Graphics  
Anrhony Bianco  Cristin Manary  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Colleen Gaughen  Jeff Hsu  

l11e Observer (USPS ~99 2-4000) i, pul,li,hcd Monday through Friday • except .during exam .and vaut~on periods. The Observer ls a member of th, Assoc1>tcd Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
Wednesday, January 20, 1999
The Observer• INSIDE 



utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Yale forces Ayran Nation to discontine use of its website 
¦ RUTGERS lJf·JIVERSITY Former leader challenges Boy Scouts 
NEW BRUNSWICK, N.J. 
A dismissed Boy Scout of America troop leader and for­mer president of the Bisexual. Gay and Lesbian Alliance at Rutgers University is asking New Jersey Supreme Court to supersede the Boy Scouts' "morally straight" code with the state's anti-discrimination law. The case was filed by the Boy Scouts, which presented the appeals court Jan. 5 with arguments to overturn a 1998 court decision that said the organization violated the state's anti-discrimination law when it dismissed Matawan troop leader James Dale after learning he is gay. According to the decision, the Boy Scouts is a "public accommodation" and is subject to the state's civil rights laws. Lawyers for the organization said the Boy Scouts is a private organization and its leaders have the right to make their own rules, such as the "morally straight" code. Homosexuality. they said, violates the code. 
¦ VIRGINIA TECH 

Virginia holiday links three leaders 
BLACKSBURG, Va. 

Lee-Jackson-King Day, Virginia's peculiar holiday that links two Civil War generals and a civil rights leader Monday, might have the distinction of never having been celebrated as a joint occasion. As in years past, there are birthday anniversaries planned for Gen. Robert E. Lee and for Gen. Thomas "Stonewall" Jackson and for the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr., but not all together. The hybrid holiday is generally credited to, or blamed on, then-state Sen. Douglas Wilder (DJ, who bat­tled for years to get King's birthday recognized and finally did so in 1984. However, Wilder said combining the three was never his intention and he wished it had never happened. "They got lumped together, this day, Lee-Jackson-King," he said in a telephone interview from Texas where he was speaking at an event honor­ing King. "It shouldn't be that way." 
¦ SOUTH BENO WEATHER 
· 
NEW HAVEN, Conn. 
The Aryan Nation no longer uses the "Old Books" image from Yale's web­site to sell r.opies of "The llitlcr We Loved and Why." 
After a student informed the Yale webmaster team .in December that the Arvan Nation's online "Literature Archives" contained the "Old Books" image from Yale's electronic front door. Yale took action. 
The University informed the Aryan webmaster that using the University­owned image violated copyright laws. After a brief exchange of correspon­dence, the Aryans removed the image from their pages. 
The image formerly on the Aryan Nation's pages appeared to be a shrunken version of the "Old Books" image with the lettering removed. 

Director of Academic Computing Philip Long said the Aryans did not dispute Yale's ownership of the image, 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 

AccuWeathere forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Pr,uure: 

:I"<,,_ ,:~,. Qt~...,
® © . El rm Ll IB3J . V ·~~ ,._. 
High Low Shower• Rain T-1torm1 Flun-lea Snow Ice sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
Baltimore 31 Billings 26


q,Q,~-A~~ r, ~ a 
Boston 34 

Showers T-storms Raia Flumes Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Clouay 
Chicago 24 
Via Associate-cl Press Grsphk:s.Net 

0ilice, manages the use of Yale-owned images. 
While Yale and the Aryan Nation spent about two weeks exchanging letters.Yale prepared to begin more serious action against the legally responsible party in case the site's operators refused to remove lhc "Old Books." 
Long said Yale was prepared to pur­sue the site's Internet service provider if the University was not able to deter­mine who was responsible for the copyright violation. 
He added that an ISP can sometimes bear responsibility for flagrant copy­right violations on its pages. 
"It is our belief that the laws clearly hold the Internet servfce provider [liable] for content once the ISP has been made aware of it," he said. 
Under this standard, Yale could the­oretically be held responsible for materials on students' web pages. 

but that they did attempt to continue using their version of it. 
"We sent them a note stating our ownership of copyright," Long said. He added that Yale then received an acknowledgment of ownership from the site and a request for permission to use it. 
Yale refused to grant the Aryan Nation that authorization. "In general permission is not going to be granted," Long said, The University Licensing Office, a part of the University Secretary's 


¦ !iEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY Housekeeper recycles ungraded exams 
WASHINGTON, D.C, 
Sixty students enrolled in Introduction to International Politics last semester will have to retake the final exam or resubmit research papers and course work after a GW housekeeping employee accidentally recycled the exams before they were graded. Professor Maurice East, who taught the introductory level course, said the ungraded final exams and grade book were in a box on teaching assistant Michael MacLeod's desk when they were recy­cled. "(MacLeod) worked with housekeeping for about 24 hours before h~ could contact me," East said. "He was stomping through recycling bins, searching for where the materials could be." Macleod and East met with .Jeffrey Henig, the political science department chair, to devise a solution. Students were notified of the incident by e-mail two days after the exam and were assigned a "work in progress" grade, also called an IPG. 
¦ UNIVERSITY OF IOWA Eight story fall leads to students death 
IOWA CITY, Iowa 
A UI student died after falling from an eighth-floor Mayflower Residence Hall room late Monday afternoon in what UI officials are calling an apparent suicide. The stu­dent's name was being withheld Monday night pending notification of the family, said Steve Parrott, assistant director of University Relations. He would only say the person was a student. The UI Department of Public Safety received a 911 call summoning officers to the scene, Parrott said. He was unsure if the student had recently fallen, or if time had passed between the fall and the 911 call. The suicide was the first Parrott said he r.ould remember at Mayflower since two students committed suicide within two months of each other, in December 1994 and January 1995. UI freshman Sanjay .Jain died of carbon monoxide poisoning and UI junior Thomas Beltman died of a gunshot to the head. 

49  Cleveland  28  
44  Denver  26  
44  Ft. Lauderdale 66  
42  Houston  58  


41  Lexington  35  54  
52  Montgomery 48  74  
81  Phoenix  50  70  
79  San Diego  54  64  

page 3

Wednesday, January 20, 1999 The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS 
¦ BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 


Board requests student feedback 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY S,tim Marv•~ Ncwi Editor 
Meetings with the Perforrna Consulting group regarding tlw proposf.ld slucfont. center continued this wcok as tho ronsultnnts rontinue to gath• er studflnt foedhack. stud1-mt body vie" presidtmt Nancy Midden reportml to the Board of Governance. 
"It was really n bn1instorm­in g scssilrn,"· said Midden. "Tlwy wunted to get an idea of what ideally we would want tho now student center to havu. They are planning subst~quent visits to gather inl'ormation." 
According to Midden, some 
of the ideas suggested to the 
represr.ntatives from 
Performa by Midden and 
othr.r students were 
increasod study space and 
computer availability. 
Midden also reported that 
interviews of candidates. for 
tho position of vice president 
and dean of faculty will con• 
tinue through this wt1ekend. 
•The process has been 

going very well and thero has been a lot of student partic­ipation in the process," she 
said. In other BOG news: 
• 
The board tabled approval of the Odyssey of the Mind club until a representative of the group ran come to a BOG meeting. Odyssey of the Mind is a group focusing on ere• ative problem solving. The group has recently opened a chapt(~r at Notre Dame and wants to expand to indudo Saint Mary's students. There is currently one student from Saint Mary's participating in the group. 

• 
Nancy Midden reported that the picture taktm of stu­dents, faculty and staff for Saint Mary's Pride D~y in October will he avnilahle for sale to students for $4. The pictures will be sold in the dining ho.It. 

• 
A winter Activities Night will be held in the LeMans lobby on Tuesday, Jan; 26, from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. More than 25 groups will be repre­sented. 


Music prof up for Grammy 
By ANNIE SPILLNER News Writer 

A Notre Dame professor may celebrate his achievments alongside the music industry's biggest stars when Grammy awards arc announced Feb. 24. 
Alexander Blachly. chorale leador and associate professor of music, was nominated for a Grammy award for his CD. "Creator of the Stars," which Im recorded with his New York ensemble, Pomcrium. for Deutsche Grammophon/i\rchiv Produktion. 
Blachly joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1993 as direc­tor of choral music. Ile and the Notre Dame Chorale, assisted by the Notre Dame Chamber Orchestra, have r.arned a supportive local fol­lowing thanks in part to their performances of Handel's Messiah each December in Washington Ilall. 
Blachly founded Pomerium, a 15-voice a cappella ensem­ble. in 1972 to perform music composed for the virtuoso 
chapel  choirs  of  the  
Hcnaissance.  
"When  I  first  founded  

Pomerium, there were no top­caliber choirs devoted to the music Pomerium specializes in, that is, the great sacred a cappella Masses, Magnif1cats, and motets of the Henaissance. Blachly said. "These works are the musical analogs of the paintings of Botticelli and Leonardo da Vinci, the sculptures of Donatello and Michelangelo, or the architectural mon u­
ments of Brunelleschi." 
llis group has acquired international fame for its interpri,itations of composers Du Fay, 0ckeghcm . .Josquin and Lassus. 
Pomerium has performed at various international festivals as well as six times here at Notre Dame. They l'irst per­formed on campus in 1991 to present a program of 14th century Italian works. later to commemorate the University's sesquicentennial year and in 1992 with music by 15th cen­tury composer Antoine Busnoys. 
Pomerium performed most 
recently in March, 1998, at a 
concert featuring sacred 
music from manuscripts 
copied for the Sistino Chapel 
choir during the time 
Michelangelo painted the 
chapel's ceiling. 
"We only know how wonder­
ful music is based on perl'or· 
manccs of it," explained 
Blachly. "My goal was to cre­
ate a group to do music the way it was meant to bn done. Of course we have not accom­plished such an impossihlo goal, but the group has cnr­tainly improved considerably over the course of 27 years." 

"In no small measure, this is currently due to the existence of a sizable corps of talentPd 
singers  who  specialize  in  
Henaissancn polyphony.  In  
1972, one  would have had  to  

scour tlrn face of the earth to find 15 singers of this typo," 
he continuPd. 

"As a non-music major, it's a great opportunity to be able to work with someone of Professor Blachly's experience and reputation," said Chorale treasurer H.yan Harding. 
Chorale vice presidont Hachel Ilansen also claims to have learned much from Blachly's instruction. 
"He knows so much. I've never !narned more about music history and theory than by being in Chorale," Hansen said. "He never ceases to amaze us with his off-the-wall music facts which keep Chorale interesting and fun." 
Blachly earned his master's and doctoral degrees in musi­cology from Columbia Universily, and in 1992 won the Noah Greenberg Award given by the American Musicological Society in recognition for his achieve­ment in the lield of historical performing practicf1. 
Professor Blachly recently returnerl from a tour of New Orleans and Florida with the Notre Dame Chorale and will wait to learn the outcome of his nomination until Grammy night. 

page 4 The Observer• NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, January 20, 1999 
majority leader Trent Lott More than 800 students ca11ed for a 10 percent across­attended last year's Summer
Intern 

the-board tax cut. Republicans Job Fair and a number were also attacked the idea of having employed through the con­
continued from page 1 

the government invest Social tacts they made. Many orga­Security cash on Wall Street. look perfect. Students should nizations are holding inter­
"No, no, a thousand times remember they are compet­views for jobs and internships no," said Rep. Bill Archer, R­ing with many people," said the next day. Texas, House Ways and Means Kopec. "Students should also "The interviews show a chairman. "If you thought a obtain a list of the companies very good indication that government takeover of health beforehand and research who employers are seriously care was bad, just wait until the employers arc and their intent about this event." said the government becomes an history." Sullivan. owner of America's private Kopec also tells students to Career and Placement sector companies." prepare a one-minute speech Services suggest students 
Moving from last year's call about themselves and why dress in casual business to "save Social Security first," they are interested in the attire. meaning a sports coat Clinton proposed transferring company for a job or intern­and tie, sweater and slacks, about 60 percent of expected ship. blouse and skirt, or pantsuit. budget surpluses over the next "Prepare a little commer­An updated list of employ­15 years -$2.7 trillion -to cial about yourself to say to ers who are scheduled Lo par­the Social Security account to the employers," she said. ticipate is posted at keep the program solvent until "The best candidates identify www. nd. ed u/-ndcps/stu ­2055. what their strengths are." dents.htm. 
Co-Rec lnnerllibe Water P
~,.,,,:., . . '' '•'• / 
:·tm.Wiffle Ban . 
y,, "¾ \ ·~,,tG,. ., .. • . 
awi(~DG.ter(M&W) 
.. . T~rge\ Golf 




Broom'b~Jb(M. 
,#Kiekh et6 Kava,,199_./· 
Team 'lridg;e,"4~11. 
Badminton(M&W) 


Tab~Jen~is'"_,.#·-· 
•. <,~~~~,:,.:,..-" 

The Deadline for Entering a T earn is Monday, January 25. 
Friday, January 29, 1999 • 7:00 PM -4:00 AM • Joyce Center &RSRC • 631-6100 All LNO Medals Were Donated by the Notre Dame Alumni Association All T-Shirts Were Donated by <I:~ 
The Notre Dame Council on International Business Developmen~ 

On education, the president said he would send Congress a



Address 

plan that for the first time 
holds states and school dis­
continued from page 1 

tricts accountable for their Department will sue the tobac-progress and rewards them for co industry. He also is seeking results, he said. Schools that a 55-cent-a-pack tax on ciga-fail to comply could lose some rettcs. "Our children are tar-of the $15 billion the federal gets of a massive media cam-government spends on educa­paign to hook them on ciga-tion. rettes," Clinton said. "I believe we must change 
Clinton also urged spending the way we invest that money, billions of dollars for new pro-to support what works and to grams in child care, education, stop supporting what doesn't," crime-fighting. the environ-the president said. No child ment and the Pentagon. And he should graduate from high called for raising the minimum school "with a diploma he or wage by $1 an hour over two she can't read," Clinton said. years to $6.15. In his remarks on foreign 
"With our budget surplus policy, Clinton said the United growing. our economy expand-States will continue to contain ing, our confidence rising, now Iraq's Saddam Hussein. "And is the time for this generation we will work for the day when to meet our histori.c responsi-Iraq has a government worthy bility io the 21st century," of its people," Clinton said. Clinton said. "Let's get to In the aftermath of the killing work." of more than 40 ethnic 
In response to Clinton's Albanians in Kosovo, Clinton speflch, Hepublicans said the said the United States and nation's business would not be NATO allies "are pressing the hurt regardless of the outcome Serbian government to stop its of Clinton's impeachment trial. brutal rt>pression in Kosovo, to 
"Our country bring those is not in cri-responsible to sis," Rep. justice." Jennifer Dunn, 'WITH OUR BUDGET He also pro-R-Wash., said SURPLUS GROWING, posed $4.2 bil­
in prepared lion -a 70 remarks. "No OUR ECONOMY EXPANDING, p e r c e n t matter what OUR CONFIDENCE RISING, increase -to the outcome of dismantle and the president's NOW IS THE TIME FOR THIS d e 5 t r O y situation, life GENERATION TO MEET OUR R u s s i a ' s in America nuclear arse­will go on." HISTORIC RFSPONSIBILITY TO nal and redi-
Two special THE 21ST CENTURY.' rect the work guests sat in of Russian sci-the House entists from chamber with BILL CLINTON weapons to first lady PRESIDE/'\/T OF THE UNITED STATES c i v i I i a n H i I I a r y research. R o d h a m On Social Clinton as the president spoke: Security, Clinton's proposal civil rights pioneer Rosa Parks sets up a monumental fight and baseball slugger Sammy over how to protect the giant Sosa. Clinton singled out his retirement program and with wife, saying "I honor her" for GOP tax-cutting ambitions her work with children and on against a background of $4 tril­behalf of the nation. lion in projected surpluses over 
Clinton's speech came eight 15 years. hours after White House The president's proposal lawyers began defending the would create new 401(k)-style president in a Senate trial. retirement accounts for work­arguing he was innocent of ers and invest some of Social perjury and obstruction of jus-Security's cash reserves in the tice charges and "must not be stock market for the first time. removed from office." In sharp contrast, Senate 
Campus Cluster Computer Consultants Needed 
Consultants are still needed to fill certain time periods at the following campus clusters. 
WORTUNE CLUSTER HESBURGH CLUST!R 
Sunday 
lO AM• Noon 10AM-1lAM l PM· 2 PM 
Monday 
Midnight • 2 AM 

5 PM -6 PM
Tuesday 

I AM· 2 AM Wednesday Mond.!y ID PM -2 AM 8AM-10AM Thursday 
11AM -Noon 

I PM· 2 PM 11AM • Noon Tuesd21y 4 PM-6 PM SAM-10AM 
10PM-2AM Noon -1 PM Friday 
I I PM • Midl"\lght 
10 AM -Noon Wtdr:esday 8 AM-3 PM 
DEBARTOLO CLUSTER 

Midnight -2 AM Monday Thursd.11ySAM•8AM 8AM•lOAM t0AM-11~ 
6 PM• 7 PM 
Wl!dnesday 

Midnight • 2 AM 

8AM-9AM 
Friday
11AM-lPM 

8AM• llAM 
Thursday 9 PM• 2 ,t..M 5AM-8AM 
Saturday8AM•ll/4M 9 PM• 2 AM !2 PM-I PM 
llPM•IAM 

If you are interested in 
Friday 

working any of these 
5AM•8AM 

times. cont.:lct L~ura

8AM•IIAM 

Ge1<e1er c1t
IOAM• I l AM 


ge1<erer. I ~nd.edu 
6 !'M • Midnight 



________..,_ __...,___.,,•.-.~--------·~~~~-w--­

COMI'!LED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
¦ WORLD NE:WS BRIEFS 
Michigan brothel owner receives probation sentence 
PONTIAC, Micl1. 
Tlw ltuntinglnn Woods \ttadam. accused or n111ni11g a 111illio11-dollar-a-y1rnr call-girl ring in DPtroit's WPll-to-do suburbs, was pl1u·Pd on two y1•ars' prnhation Tunsday. Marci Dnvcrnay, :u, plnad<id guilty to rnck­1•lt,i!ri11g iu nxchang1• f'or lhn dismissal of livP otlwr 1·1nmts n•IatNl to llw prostitution ring slw all1•gcdlv rnn out of her homn. Sho could lrnv11 goltl'll 20 y1•ars in prison. Last Wl'Pk, polic<1 n>l1•asncl 7,000 rrnmPs from lwr rom1rnt11ri/11d litll<• black book, possibly ronfirming tlw worst r,,1u·s of' suspirious sp11us11s. /\l'lN seizing llw rncords, polit'.n w1•rt• lwsi11gfld with l'alls from curious wivns and illf'll olTPri11g 1•x1·usns for why tlrnir nanws might b1· in then•. IJ1wcrnay ran an 111wration prostirutor Paul Walton callnd "a 20th-rPntury brothPI with incichmtal ads of l1•gili111alP massagt•." 
Penny-taping customers worry Post Office 
W/\SIIINGTON 
Conl'rontPd with th<' one-cnnl increase in poslag,, ra1ns a fow /\mnric:ans havn resort­rd to taping 1m1111ins on envelopes to cover Lh1• i111-rPasPd cost. Tlw post office would likn llHHn to slop. Pnnnins can damage som1• automatic canceling machinns, and if Hwy rail olT llw cmvnlopes they can damage ollwr machinery, postal officials said. ThPn! havP lwPn somf' spot shortages of 01w-1:1•nt stamps, but pust offices should havn plnnly of rww :n-cirnt stamps and one cent stamps by now. 
Solar system may shrink to eight planets 
/\LBUQUEBQUE, N.M. 
Pluto's days as one of our solar system's ninn major plarwts may be numbcrnd. Two groups within the International Astronomical Union are thinking about reclassifying the n,lativcly puny planet­eillwr calli1;g il a "minor planet" or lumping it in with an entirely new class of object~. "For at lnast 20 years, it's bnen obvious that l'lutu do1is11't fit," said Unive-rsity of' Maryland astrononrnr Miko /\'llearn, who hnads thn Planetary Systems Sciences Division of the lntnrnational Astronomical Union. With a diametc1r of only 1.440 miles, Pluto. tlw planet farthnst from the sun, is smallflr than thn moon. And while othnr "major plannts" havn roughly circular orbits, Pluto carves out a sweeping ellipse that frnqunntly takns it closer than Nnpturw, planet No. 8, to tho sun. ;\'Hearn wants lo rrnate a new class of' objects for irn balls that orbit beyond Neptune and call tlwm Trans-Neptunian Objncts. Pluto would 
¦ JORDAN 


AsSOCIATED PRESS 
AMMAN 
Jordanians fired guns in the air and slaughtered sheep and camels in the streets Tuesday to welcome home King Hussein after six months of' cancer treatment at the Mayo Clinic. 
The 63-year-old monarch, a veteran pilot, was at the controls of the royal jet when it touched down at Amman's Marka Military Base, escort­ed by Jordanian air force fighter jets. Beaming, the king paused a moment in the cock pit to peer out at the crowd welcoming him home. 
Hussein, wearing a red­and-white checkered kaf­liyeh, then f'ell to his knees, kissed thn ground and prayed on a carpet set on the tarmac. 
"l am feeling fine," declared Hussein, who appeared thinner but spoke 
animatedly. 

Pl.0 chief Yasser Arafat kissed Hussein on the fore­head and Yemen's president and the emir of Qatar were among the dignitaries who stood in long lines to greet him. 
' I AM FEELING FINE., 
KING HUSSEIN JORDANIAN MONARCH 
More than 100,000 well­wishers stood in the freezing rain to catch a glimpse of the monarch as he rode with his wife, Queen Noor, in a royal motorcade through the crammed streets of the Jordanian capital. 
The festive welcome reflected thn strong affection many Jordanians feel toward Hussein and the deep sense of relief at the return of a ruler who has been a pillar of stability dur­ing his 46 years in power. It was Hussein's longest absence from the kingdom since he took power at age 17. 
"We've been afraid during the absence of Hussein that the oars would break in tho surrounding storms," wrote the al-Arab al-Yawm news­paper. a frequent govern­ment critic, in a front-page editorial. "Now our souls have come back to us." 
Government officials say Hussein has recovered fully following six months of chemotherapy and a stem cell transplant for non­Hodgkins lymphoma at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn. He had spent the past two weeks recuperating in Britain. It was the king's sec­ond bout with cancer in six years. 

Hussein, standing in the back of his cream-colored Mercedes, waved and clasped the hands of well­wishers who jammed tho 25­mile route to Bawabet cl­Salaam Palace on the out­skirts of the city. 
Bndouin in long robes danced and chanted "Long Live King llussein!" as shop­keepers offered sweets and spiced black coffee to passers-by. 
The welcome had all the marks of a traditional Arab celebration. Some tribesmnn slaughtered camels and sheep, and the sound of cclr,­brato ry gunfire echoed throughout the capital. 
"King Hussein is like a father to me and I havn to pay respect for him," said 5­year-old Mohammed SalamRh, his lips trembling from the cold. 
"' People tend to think of 
lw Trans-Nnptunian Ohjnct No. 1. 
Dow 
AMEX: 
707.61
]ONES 
. J.68 
Nasd:u1:
9355.22 
2408.17 
LJ 
+W97 
NYSE: 
594.83 
+1.-14 
S&P 500: 
1294.40 

Composite
+7 . ..JO 
Volume: 
+14.67 1,012,520,J00 VOl.llMF I.EI\DERS 
t·n\lPAN\' $GA.IN 
A111<1UthC'11m ATI di W +lJ ~nnu 9:!.M7~ t"l1mp,kf C11m1tt.111.:1 l'J'(J +4 I\ ;, I lJ,17~ 4M.ll7~ Mrn1u111u{'u MH' -IUJlh -•Uhl~ _n.-111~ i\t&TC'i•rr T •~ .lti +1 l~~o Yl ..'7~ W,1m1:1 L1111hc,1 WI.A .t)'.~ . '.\1"\() M.,H7~l t',u111ntp In..· c· 1.m1 ...~b:1., -~1.417.~ Ccrul,1111 C,11pj {'l) t!l) t2.'io0 Zll.62.'i lldlMl;111ni: un ... ~.u ... ~ .\0011 5'7,)17, l.uc:cn1Tc,;h Ilk. LU +:1.;'\4 1-UiH7~ I L1.\l,'7!'i l'h11ipMmmC MO -2.t,1 l,]7jj0 :'i0.1-1I2,'i 

Senate leaders unveil new agendas 
ASSOCIATED PRESS from Prosident Clinton. Congress is a biennial ritual that 
''He's got to show us the specifics," each uses to publicize its top priori• 
WASHINGTON said Senftte Majority Lender Trent ties. 
Senate loaders of both parties Lott,R-Mlss.. . . . _, .. Democrats' top bills would expand introduced dueling agendas today Even as Republicans announced the rights of patients of health main­dotlling with taxes, schools and crlme their strr1.tegy, White House Mficials ten o.nce organizations; be(lf up 
as the new 106th Congress returned caught tbein._ 9f( guard by revealing resources for hiring aud training in force to the Capitol and began that Clinton would propose keeping teachers; boost the minimum wage burrowing into its leglslative tn.sks. much of the projected federal sur­and cut taxes for rn,~ny couples; 
Neither party, however, offored pluses in Social Security's trust fund, move against crime and illegal proposals for what is expected to be but investing. some of it in the stock drugs: and expand access ·to one of the year's Lop issues: How to ma..rket, ... , . Medicare for many older Ami.~ricans. shore up the politically sensitive Senate Republicans' other top l'our As they unveil<,d their measures. Social Security program for the baby bills tvould give communities moro Democratic loaders blamed boomers' looming retirement. power oyer schools and limit federal HepubUcans for killing similar initia-
Democrats simply said federal sur­controls: cot income taxes by 10 per• tives last year. . pluses should b1i untouched until a cent across tM board; boost mmtury 'The American peoplo ar<J waiting Social Security fix is implement~d. salaries and pensions; and increase for us to act," Senate Minority Senate Republicans, like their Hoi.tse ahti~drugeftorts. Leader Torn Daschle, D-S.D., said on counterparts,. set aside their first bill The .anuouncqment by each piirty the Sonate f1oor. "They've bo.,m wait­-S.1 -for a Soda] Security plan of its first fivEi bills ot' the new ing, frankly, too long." 
-~~ ------------------~----.------------· 
-
~­

page 6 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, January 20, 1999 
tiatives, taking a giant leap towards addressing Americans' 
Response 

concerns as we approach a new 
terest 
century," Gephardt said. 
continued from page 1 

Hep. Martin Frost of Texas, in their seats and did not clap. chairman of the House 
"We have an opportunity, the Democratic Caucus, said the Congress and the White House, president, with his "bold agen­working together. lo have an da," "did the country and the agenda that we can advance Congress a service tonight by that the American people will moving our focus away from really approve of,'' said Senate partisan politics and personal Majority Leader Trent Lott, R­attacks and toward common­Miss., sounding Lho theme that sense proposals." the trial need not impede C(')op­But the liberal wing of the eration in passing legislation_ party also expressed concerns 
"The political paradox," said about some aspects of the House Banking Committee agenda. Rep. Peter DeFazio, D­Chairman Jim Leach. H-lowa, ore., questioned Clinton's plan "is that the president's personal to spend more on defense, say­problems ,vith Congress are ing: "We are locked into a per­likely to cause a redoubled petual arms race with our­effort at both ends of selves" deprives social pro­Pennsylvania Avenue to devel­grams of needed funding. op a constructive legislative Flep. Earl Hilliard, D-Ala., relationship." stressed that amid all the talk 
Hep. Dennis Hastert, H-1!1.. of prosperity, "the people living attending his first State of the on the streets of America and Union as House speaker, said huddling in tlrn shelters of our Clinton "gave another good cities are our neighbors and speech under difficult circum­our fellow citizens, and we stances." must end their 
But he said poverty." the president Several law­fell short in not 'IT'S INCREDIBLY INAP­makers stayed 
proposing a away from the
PROPRIATE FOR THE

comprehensive speech to 
tax cut, not HOUSE TO ACTIJALLY OFFER protest 
d e v o t i n g THE INVITATION (FOR THE Clinton's enough atten-, appearance tion to national PRESIDENT TO SPEAK,. before 
security and DIDN'T WE JUST IMPEACH Congress at the same time
not shifting THE GUY?' 

more education the Senate is programs to weighing his local control. future in 
TOM TANCREDO office. "It's
House Ways 

U.S. REPRESENTATIVE, R-CoL. inc red i b I y 
and Means Committee inappropriate Chairman Bill Archer, R-Texas, for the House to actually offer stressed that Republicans, who the invitation. Didn't we just are seeking a 10 percent impeach the guy?" asked across-the-board tax rate cut, Republican freshman Rep. Tom were dissatisfied with Clinton's Tancredo of Colorado. plans to spend more and offer Others said the Lewinsky only limited tax cuts. scandal would inevitably affect 
"Instead of using the surplus Clinton's ability to carry to retire-the debt or return it to through on his goals. Sen. Dick the American people through Lugar, R-Ind., predicted bipar­lower taxes. the president is tisan efforts in such areas as proposing to spend it all." Social Security, health care, 
House Democratic leader education and law enforce­Dick Gephardt of Missouri said ment, but said "progress this Clinton's speech, in year may depend largely on 
which he introduced a far­working around corrosive reaching plan to protect Social effects of the White House Security and urged predicament." 
spending in numerous other Rep. Steve Largent, R-Okla., programs in child care, educa­who joined Rep. Jennifer Dunn, tion and crime-fighting, was his R-Wash., in delivering the offi­most vigorous since his first cial Republican response to the address to Congress six years speech, spoke of the need for ago. reconciliation in national divi­
"He has put forward an his­sions that affect racial and fam­toric and aggressive set of ini-ily relationships. 
IN MEMORY OF LUCY BLANDFORD PILKINTON A.B., M.A., PH.D. 27FEB 1943--19 JAN 1994 
:\vas e,~ect,1ted , and.· Chile protested;'' Shelton. said, "M~tg~y~t 'fha!pJl<:lr.• c~lledfor
>,'Pliiocfiei Pinochet'srelease.". . 

or .elective T~is actiop. r<1;ised the coinci• o'buy •afriis. donco that Thatcher's husband ad t1:1}1rwith 'Owns.some.of Britain's weapon f'/'' Shehvn cou1panies, ~helton noted. 
....•............. ·. J1.dd.i:ed tp.e Pinochet's lawyers claimed that the arrest.warrants were · >' t. the l\\70 illegal 'becallse' Pi'nochet had :warrants. s,oyereign Jmmunity and the rP@ocfiet United Kingdom could not tj ic.cµs~.h .arro~t ,:1 nopclJnitcd Kingdom · ie W8irra.nts listed. citizen. Pinochet's lawyers" ·• ··· 'd'e~lf with argiiod that Garzoh had no tlfotfon of power Jo issue a second war­dptin.g pet" rant. and that the fifth accusa­!4RJ:i,9~, G9P~ .,:i,tJori;couig PQ.t be an ~xtradition th~ first, tak• ·crime. However, the House of 
i'l-:1Jen!ll$f9 J,ordsdeci<ied that the case ·y.'t&.comrrjlt ... could go onto tri.al. lyv.cou,pir~"' %tw '.'Presently. the IIouse ·•of· 
' · · .· .. Jor~s a;e ~/3,vi~g hearings on ':whetbet or hot Pinochet has ~t ,J111t11i.;n)w becaus.e .he ,W/1~ a
'-'~.:;,·.'·'\•·:~w~t·. · ....:,,.·-·.,: ·· ··--':·'·,. ___ :·-: .. ,.:. ·· ·· 




The Associated l'res. 
WA."illlNGTON 
In a move that could spoed new lrnatnwnts for devastating disfiasns but that also raises eth­ica I qunslions, the Clinton administralion is about to linanco resnarch using "master cells" -the building blocks of tissue that sdm1tisL.; havn culled from human embryos. 

Studying how to harness these embryonic stem cells and turn them into therapies !'or Alzheimer's disease or diabetes, as well as ways to prevent birth clofocts and rebuild damaged organs, is considered one of the most promising new frontiers of science. 
It's also controversial because 
Center for Social Concerns 
MEXICO SEMINAR 
-May 11-28, 1999 in Mexico 
(leaving time for summer work) -Service & learning opportunity -One credit Theology -Spanish not required -Applications at the CSC -Applications due: 
January 28, 1999 


these "master cells" aro present only in ea.rly-stagc human embryos. Some anti-abortion groups in particular call stem cell research morally unaccept­able, because to get the cells, embryos would have to be destroyed. 
Until now the research has largely been taboo, because fed• eral law prohibits using taxpay­ers' money for research using human embryos. 
But scientists working last year with scarce private funding succeeded in isolating some embryonic stem cells -both from aborted fetuses and from unused embryos from infertility treatments -and succeeded in multiplying the stem cells in lab­oratories to grow a supply for research. 
Now the National Institutes of Health, the main provider of money for U.S. medical research, says that because these lab-grown stem cells do not constitute an embryo, it thus is legal for NII I to fund experi­ments using them -and it will do so within months. 
"We know this is ethically sen­sitive territory," NIH Director Harold Varmus said Tuesday after announcing the decision before President Clinton's National Bioethics Advisory 

Instructor Training.Course 
Do you enjoy working out? Do you have leadership skills? Do you have good people skills? Combine your talents by becoming a fitness instructor! 
cueing techniques•choreography-music 
•injury prevention·exercise technique ·class structure·muscle conditioning 
Tuesdays Registration Jan. 26 -
January 20 6:45-8:15pm 8am RSRC AR 1 RSRC $25 1-6100 with ?s 
Mac & Window Software at Academic Prices! 
Notre Dame Students and Faculty receive up to 75% off retail prices on software. Call now for FREE delivery on all orders until 1 /25/99! ADW 1-800-333-8571 
Commission. But "the prospects of benefit to living human beings ... are dramatic." 
Stem cells are the basic or pri­mordial cells from which all of a human's tissues and organs develop. By themselves, the cells can't grow into a person. 
But if scientists could control how the cells switr,h on to form different bodily tissues, they might produr,e lifesaving thera­pies: Growing heart cells to rebuild disease-ravaged hearts, or insulin-producing cells for diabetics, or new brain cells for victims of Parkinson's or Alzheimor's disease. 
The Nlll's decision "is terrific'' because it will speed that research "absolutely by years," said Dr. John Gearhart of Johns Hopkins University, who grew one of the stem cell supplies from aborted fetuses. 
In addition, Nill involvement will ensure the science is dono with the public scrutiny not pos­sible when private companies control the purse strings, Gearhart added. 
Abortion opponents immedi­ately decried the decision. 
"Today's announcement ... is the latest step by the Clinton administration to treat human beings as property to be manip­ulated and destroyed," said Hep. Chris Smith, H-N.J. 
NIH money will allow researchers to "experiment with cells obtained from human beings ruthlessly killed in the first weeks of life," said Smith. 
The congressman didn't say whether he would challenge NIIl's plans. 
Because of Congress' ban, NII I "will not fund the act of destruc­tion itself, but will reward those who destroy embryos by paying them to develop the cells and tissues they have obtained by destructive means," said Richard Doerflingnr of tho National Conference of Catholic Bishops. 

ttffffffffftftffffffitffftffffltffft 
ti~ 

-;,:~~ VVEDNESDAY NIGHT OUT ~  
f v•~ ~~  
JOIN US AND ENJOY SABOR LATINO LAFORTUNE BALL ROOM 9 P.M. TILL MIDNIGHT TONIGHT  


page 8 The Observer. INTERNATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, January 20, 1999 
¦ YUGOSLAVIA 

Milosevic upholds Yugoslavia's right to defend itself 

Associated Press 
BELGRADE 
Rejecting outside pressure, a defiant Slobodan Milosevic on Tuesday defended Yugoslavia's crackdown in Kosovo. telling NATO's two top generals that he has a "right to fight against terrorism." 
The State Department acknowledged that the six­hour meeting with the Yugoslav president appeared to have made little headway. "We are not encouraged," said spokesman James P. Rubin in Washington. 
The NATO leaders traveled to Belgrade to deliver a warning that Milosevic risks NATO airstrikes if he does not honor the terms of the U.S.-brokered cease-tire in Kosovo. 
Supreme Commander U.S. Gen. Wesley Clark and German Gen. Klaus Naumann left Yugoslavia late Tuesday with­out comment. Rubin said they were returning to Brussels, Belgium, where NATO is head­quartered. and planned to report on their meeting. 

WASHINGTON SEMINAR: 
VIOLENCE AND NONVIOLENCE IN AMERICAN LIFE 
Spend Spring break in D.C. with twenty other students, learning more about the problem of violence and the solutions to this problem by meeting with government, non-profit and religious organizations. 
Information Session 
Wednesday, January 20th 
7:00-7:30 PM at the CSC 
Applications are available at the CSC 
For information: Amanda Roberts 631-9473 Jennifer Johnson 634-2744 Jay Brandenberger 631-5293 

We otter a wide array of workplace amenities including excellent salaries and benefits, 401 K, profit sharing, tuition reimbursement, f~ness center and a casual dress environment. If unable to attend, please send your scanabte resume to: 
Discover Financial Services, Inc. Human Resources, IT Recruiter 
2500 Lake Cook Road ¦ Riverwoods, IL 60015 
Fax: (847) 405-1388 

Visit our Web Site at: 
www.novusnet.com 
EOE MIF/DN 
llfll 

The Yugoslav government's Tanjug news agency quoted Milosevic as saying the Oct. 12 cease-fire accord allows the state to "respond to any kind of terrorist activity." He said the government has a "legitimate right to fight against terror­ism." 
Milosevic's government has long maintained that the ethnic Albanian Kosovo Liberation Army is a terrorist organiza­tion. The KLA is f'ighting for independence from Yugoslavia's main republic, Serbia. 
Milosevic's yearlong crack­down against the KLA has claimed as many as 2,000 lives. 
Milosevic said Yugoslavia remains committed to a politi­cal solution. 
The statement showed little sign Milosevic is prepared to back down on key positions, chief among them the govern­ment's right to crush the ethnic Albanian rebellion. 
Milosevic claimed the rebels had committed more than 500 "terrorist attacks" since the October cease-fire, including the killing of six teenagers at a bar in Pee. 
The Yugoslav president also appeared to stand firm on his refusal to allow chief U.N. war crimes prosecutor Louise Arbour to investigate last week's massacre of 45 ethnic Albanians near Racak. Serb forensic experts Tuesday began performing autopsies on 40 of the victims. 
Arbour was refused entry 
Tuesday for a second day. Milosevic's statement made no mention of the Arbour case. It did refer, however, to the gov­ernment decision to expel the American head of the interna­tional peace verification force, who accused Serb police of carrying out the Racak mas­sacre. 
Milosevic said the expulsion order was directed at William Walker personally and not the 
.::. ,:·•_,_·
··••.·•· ··•·. 

verification mission. Nevertheless, the government allowed Walker 24 more hours to remain in the country. 
State Department spokesman nubin described Yugoslavia's decision to expel Walker as unacceptable. 
"It's hard to see how an inde­pendent verification mission can operate when the chief of mission is expelled for report­ing the truth," he said. 

__________________ ...... _____ ..._______ ____..._.,.._..._,..________..,,.......,___________,.. .........--.-----,--------·---------·--·-----·-........~., 
Wednesday, January 20, 1999 The Observer• NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Feds to sue cigarette companies, defend smokers 

The Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 
Tho .I usticc Dnpartmnnt will follow tlrn states' lfmd and sue cigarntln makers in an effort to recoup hundreds nl' billions uf dollars the federal government has spnnt caring for sick sm()k­nrs. l'rnsidPnt Clinton said Tunsday. 
"You know, the status have bnnn right about this. Taxpuynrs shouldn't pay for tlrn cost nf' lung cancer, emphy­snnm and olhnr smoking-relat­ed i111rnssos -the tobacco companies should." Clinton told Congress in his State or the Union arldress. 
Without elaborating, Clinton said J ustico lawynrs wore "prnparing a litigation plan to Lake llw tobacco companies to wurl and. with tlw funds wo recover, to strnngtlrnn MPdicarn." 
111: said smoking has cust i\1,wrkan taxpayers "hundreds of billions of dollars under Modic-an• and other programs." 
Through Medicare, the l'r.dcr­al govnrnnrnnt pays for health cam !'or J5 mill inn elderly and disahhid 1\m1n-h:ans. Dr.fonse l)11partmnnl ancl Veterans i\!Tairs programs along with the Fcd11ral Employoc lleullh Be1wl1ts program also use fed­t1ral funds to pay individuals' health treatment. The states and the federal government jointly pay for Medicaid insur­ance for the poor. 

The Medical Care Recovery Act gives the government the right lo rncovcr the costs of treating people if a third par­ty's negligonce is to blame for their illnesses. 
Scott Williams, a tobacco industry spokesman, culled Clinton's announcement "a blatantly political act," saying llir. Justice Department had looked at the issue in the past and dccidocl not to act on it. 
"The Whitn !louse continues to choose confrontation over solutions," Williams said. 
lie said tho foderal govern­nrnnt will havo a nrnrn dif!icult time arguing il.s r.as,i than the states did because tho Office of the Surgeon General has been filing reports for decades on the dangers of smoking. 
"The l'cderal government cannot claim ignorance to the lrnalth risks associated with tobacco use," Williams said. "This is political. This is about money." , 
Clinton did not. say when the Justice Department would file the lawsuit. An administration official, spnaking on condition of anonymity, said a task force 
Please recycle The Observer. 
from the department's civil division would decide the tim­ing and best legal arguments. 
"We feel it's more important this be done right than be done quickly," this ol'f1cial said. 
The suit would seek to recov­er all federal costs except Medicaid costs, which were recovered by the states, and is not meant as an alternative to the pot1mtial fight with the 50 states over the financial spoils of their tobacco litigation, the official added. 
"We still believe we are enti­tled to u portion of the state settlement under the law.... That is separate and apart from this suit." 
Four states reached indepen­dent deals last year with the tobar,co industry worth a total of $40 billion, and the 46 oth­ers signed a separate $206 bil­lion deal to recover tho cost of treating Medicaid-eligible smokers. 
Late last year, as leaders in New Hampshire and Maryland moved to allocate the sel.tle­ment money to schools -and the cry went up for tax cuts in New York, Minnesota and Massachusetts -the Climon administration demanded the money be spent on anti-smok­ing and othe1· public health programs. 
For Clinton, who was stung by the failure of his much­hyped anti-youth-smoking campaign last year, the wield­
Would'you S k• N S k• ...
like mo 1ng or on-mo 1ng r 

,you KNOW, THE STATES HAVE BEEN 
RIGHT ABOUT THIS. TAXPAYERS SHOULDN'T PAY FOR THE COST OF LUNG CANCER, EMPHYSEMA AND OTHER SMOK· ING-RELATED ILLNESSES -THE TOBACCO 
COMPANIES SHOULD,' 
BILL CLINTON IN TUES/JAY'S STATE OF 11JE UNION Af)fJRESS 
'THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT CANNOT CLAIM IGNO­
RANCE TO THE HEALTH RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH TOBACCO USE. Tms IS POLITICAL. THIS IS ABOUT MONEY. THE WHITE HOUSE CONTINUES TO CHOOSE CONFRONTA­TION OVER SOLUTIONS.' 
Sco71' WtLUAMS TOBACCO INDUSTRY S/'OA'HSMAN 
ing of a fedora! lawsuit also held out the political benefit of pressuring the tobacco indus­try back to the rrngotiating table. 
Any, effort to resurrect and enact comprehensive legisla­tion for federal regulation of tobacco and advertising restrictions would likely require some acquiescence from the tobacco industry and 
its lobbyists. 

The president. had said earli­er that, as part of the now bud­get he will submit to Congress next month, hn will senk an increase of 55 cents par.k in the federal tax on cigarnttns. A similar proposal last year failed with the tolnicco hill. Clinton would use the incrnase to pay for some of his donrnstic spending plans. 

When something is too extreme for words, it's to the Nth degree. And that's the level of technology you'll experience at Raytheon. 
Raytheon has formed a new technological superpower-Raytheon Systems Company, composed of four major technological giants, Raytheon Electronic Systems, Raytheon E·Systems, Raytheon Tl Systems and Hughes Aircraft. The new Raytheon Systems Company is driving technology to the limit. And we're looking for engineers who want to push the envelope. Break new ground. Make their mark. 
At Raytheon, you'll take technology-and your career -to the highest possible level. You'll toke it to the Nth. 
We have a lot lo tell you about the new Raytheon Systems Company and the exciting opportunities we have available. Pion on visiting our booth al your college career fair. If you are unable to attend the fair then check out our website at www.rayjobs.com and please send your resume to, Raytheon Resume Processing Center, P.O. Box 660246, MS-201, Dallas, TX 75266. 
Internet: www.rayjobs.com • E-mail: resume@rayjobs.com 
U.S. citizenship may be required. We are an equal opportunity employer. 
Raytheon 

Thailand improves human rights record 
Associa red Press 
BANGKOK 
Thailand has made progressiri safeguarding human rights since mass pro-democracy street protests i.n 1992. Amnesty International said. 
In a report issued Wednesday, the London-based human rights group found that the country's new consti­tution, issued in October 1997, has helped Thailand meet international standards. "but does not protect all fun­damental rights completelv." 
Amnesty said its major con­cerns in Thailand include the rete~tion of the death penalty, the impunity of police and very hard," he said. "If you look at the new constitution and the various organic laws, [ would say we an~ giving a lot more emphasis to human rights than in the past." 

The report noted that the military has played a much less active role in Thai politics since 1992 and has become more accountable to the civil­ian administration. 
It also praised the current govornment for making an effort to highlight human rights as part of its foreign policy. _ The report pointed out, however. that the-death penalty, which Amnesty 
uncondi­
tionally 

other securitv opposes as forces, tortur~ cruel and 
and conditions 'IF YOU LOOK AT THE 

inhuman of detention NEW CONSTITI!TION, I punish­
amounting to WOULD SAY WE ARE GIVING ment, is 
cruel, inhuman allowed or degrading A LOT MORE EMPHASIS TO under the treatment, the HUMA new consti­
lack of fair tr.i-N RIGHTS THAN IN THE 
tution, and als and the PAST.' 
that execu­arbitrary t i,o n s detention of resumed in
AKAPOL SORASUCHART
refugees and 1996 after 
THA!L4ND SPOKESMAN
asylum-seek­
ers. 
Amnesty's report was issued in review of Thailand's com­pliance with the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, a comprehensive international treaty to which Thailand acceded in October 1997. 
Government spokesman Akapo! Sorasuchart said Tuesday night he could not comment in detail because he had not seen the complete report. 
"As far as Thailand is con­cerned, we have been trying 

a respite of almost nine years. 
It also claimed criminal sus­pects are often fatally shot bv police in unclear circum"­stances tantamount to extra­judicial· execution. And there is little practical chance for victims of human rights viola­ti~ns to seek legal remedy, it said. 
The report said that although it is difficult to docu­ment in detail, torture and ill­trea tm ent take place both immediately after arrest anr· during imprisonment. 
______,,_,..,__ ...,... ______.., ..._ ........~.----­
___...,_.,....,""1!14 ___ 
Leaming about yourself dealing with problems, and growing with tt,e ohanges in your lifa am important ' _parts of the Notre Dam, experience. The Professional Staff of the University Counseling Center (UCC)invite you to consider joining a group 
SPRING 

AFRICAN-AMERICAN SUPPORT GROUP 
This weekly confidential group is designed to provide a supportive en111ronment where Atrican•Amerioan students can discuss topics such as: Academic skills, college. adjustment. relationship oonoems, loneliness, Interpersonal skills, stress management, selt-esteem, and racial issues Members ~ benefit from participation in the group by gaining self­awareness, realizing that others are supportive ot their concerns, and learning from group 
members. 

WEDNESDAYS. 4:00 -5:15 p.m. 
GRADUATE THERAPY GROUP 
r111s confidential group is designed for graduate studi,rrts who would like to explore how long standing patterns are impacting their lives a.no who want to learn to movi ahead with self-understand(ng and 91eater wnfidtnet. It is also for individuals who have experienced relationship difficulties or km and a.re looking for support and strategies 10r coping and personal grovM. Students e,cperiencing adjustment to graduate school concerns are 
also likely to benefit from this group. 
Time to te decided bued on student · interest and their cch&dUIII, 
GROWING UP IN CHAOS GROUP 
This confidential therapy group is for individuals who grew up In homes where chronic illness, rnental illness, abuse, extreme poverty, addictipns or unusual family circumstances had a negative impact. M9mbers w~I nave an opportunity to explore how those dynemics have effected their self-esteem, relationships with others and current life situation. 
Time to be decided based on student Interest and their schedules. 
FOR INFORMATION AND HElP IN MAKING DECISIONS ABOUT GROUP' PARTIClf'ATION, 
CALL 131-7338 O!'I STOP UY , t:00-5;00 P.M., AT 
THE UNIVERSITY COUNSEUNCJ CENTER (UCC), 1110 FLOOR OF THI! UNlftRSITY HEAl. TH SERVICES BUILDING. 
1999 
PERSONAL GROWTH GROUP(S) 
This weekly confidential group is for studenti Who want to improve their relationships wilt fellow students, trtends and families: and woulc like 1he oPPortunlty to discover new ways o· coping with clilficult issues with the support o· other students. Group members wm also learr to communicate their needs more effectively. 
MONDAYS, 4:00-5:15 p.m.
•Anotlier group will be arranged at a 
different time bastd on student Interest and their achedutea. 
SUPPORT GROUP FOR GAY,
PRISM: 
LESBtAN, BISEXUAL AHO QUESTIONING STUOl!NTS 
This weekly aupport group wl\1 provi,de a confidential, affirming place for you to. d1sc:1ss your concems on issues such as re1at10.nsh1ps, family and peer reactions, sixlal support, decisions about coming out and being out, future lifestyle transitions, academic and career deciSiOn making, and overall persOf'lal growth. For more information c!ll Wendy Settle, Ph.D. 
MONDAYS, 3:30 • 4:45 p.m. 
RACE RELATIONS: WHAT'S YOUR VIEW? 

Healing, harmony, and unity between racial groups occur as we interact more with, become more awllre about, and become batter educated about one another. This 5 session confidential group is designed for individuals of different racial backgrounds to come together to gain more sensitivity, awareness, and knowledge about the history, values. experiences, and lifestyles of different racial groups. It's a cause for celebration when we are willing to take risks regarding our multicultural growth. Challenge yourself to unlocl< your endless capacity for racial awareness. It's up to you to do your part In creating a society where there is greater understanding 11nd awareness between 
different racial groups. 
Tl)ESDAYS, 4:00-5:15 p.m. 

#9 WOMEN'S BASl<ETBALl 
vs. 

ST. JOHN'S 
Saturday, January 23rd I @7:00pm 
llllll

Joi.."l the Exciteme"lt Ill 
EA , , , UICK CASH! 
p 


1999 
Earn $$$ for Spring Break 
February 19, 20, 21 
Sign ups are: 
Sat 1/30 9:30 a.m. -5:00 p.m. Mon 2/111:00 a.m. -5:00 p.m. 
Catering Employment Office • 108 Lafortune 631-7859 

...... 

..--------~--:-----------------------------"'-~.~------~---------------~ 
VIEWPOINT 

Wednesday, January 20, l 999 

THE OBSERVER 
Nurnr DAME Orne£: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAIN r MARY's OrncE: 309 Haggar, Nocre D.imc, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
Et>ITOR•IN-CHIH Heather Cocks MANA<ilNG E!>ITOR BllSINl:'iS MANAGER tlr~an Reinth.alt:r Kyle C.rlin 
As.\lS'l'ANT MANA<:ING El>llOR Ilc,ih« M,,cKcni,, 

NF.lll"i Fumm .................. "Michelle Kmp• AIWFR'l'ISIN<; MANA<,1,R ...................llry,n Lur, V1tWP01Nl Fon Ok .. ........... Eduardo l.111 II AD DFSIGN MANA<:fR .. .. ......Br<tt Huch1 St•oRTS Entn>R.. . ...Kachlecn l.opc, SYSifMS MANA<:f.R ... .. . ...Michael Brollillct Ser.NF. EnrroR.I . ..8.."il' n)'lag CONTROIHR ................................ Dave Rogcro 
Kri>ti Klitsch WLH AllMINISTllATOll .......................Allison Krilla SAINT MARY'S Emron ....M. Sh.innori Ryan GRAr111c, E!llTOR ...............................Pctc Cilcll, PuoTo .Eonok. ... , .................... Kevin DaJunl 
The 'l Jhw:-rvt:r u, !ht 1mkpemkn1 nt"\\-~p.ipt.:r puhl1!'ih(;d by d1c-~rudcn1,; tJf the Utuvt:l·sity of Nor"; D.-1.mc du l...1c .rnJ 
S,um M.ory'i ( :olk~t". h Jon uut nrt.n.\.i1il1· rdlcr..:[ th<: p(,1,dc, of1h1: ;1Jnunbrnu111u ofcitht".1 in:.dtution. The news is 
lt'jlClru:tl .a, ,ui..ur,1td)· ,Ul\l uhj..:i:11vdy J.\ pn~,iblc. U11.~i~1rJ rd1tori,1h rtprc.:.:tnr the 11pinin11 of rh.: m,1\ority of rh, hlmu-in-<:luti M.rn.i~ing h.lilor, A\1ti\1;uu Mat1.1gi11v., Edimr ,md ticp,mmrni: c:dltun. C(1mn1cnt,1ri~, leuc:rs and 
~11lurnm prc11rnt d1r vir·w-:,. ul t!ic ,tmhnr\, ,mJ !ltll n,;:1,:C:\..\.trily 1hmc \}f'I111:: OG.u-rv,r. Yicwr>t1im .)p.ii:t is avail..i.b1c w 1111 
,ncml'(r,, of1hc Nouc l1..mu·IS.11111 M.ny'• rnmmunity ,inJ 1~1 .;111 rc;1J1;"c•. The free t;:,,;prcs.,ion of v.1ryingopinim1.s 
dttoush lnicr, ;, C'Jlt;OUfJ~cJ. 

Contacting The Observer 1'.Ji1or-in•C:h;,f 6.'li-4S42 l\u.,int» Ufl'icc 6jl-5.}U M.an.1~in~ EJiwr/A,.\i,,am f\1E 631-4541 AJvwi,ing 6J 1·6900/8840 Ncw:../11hL,to 631 ·5.lB Sy.rem, G31·88J9 Spnr!'i 631·4S43 Fax 631·6927 SLcrn:-/Saim M.1ry\ 63 I-4S40 Viewpoint t·M,,il Viewpoint. I@nd.edu ( lJy h!itorlVi<wpoint 631•5J03 Ad E·M;iil ob~crvcr@<larwin.cc.nd.cdu Offo.:c-Man,tger/Cen~r.11 lut(>rn1;nio11 1,3 I•7•171 New., E·Mail observer, obsnc.-ws. l@11d,edt_1 

¦ THE BELLE OF SAINT MARV'S 

Aunthood Vs. Motherhood 
I'm planning lo be an aunt when I grow up. 
This, from what I understand, requires the explicit coopnration of my sister, who is at the moment unmarried and unpreg­nanl. But alter her wedding day, I will give her approximately 72 hours in which tn nnjoy 11011-bagel-in-the-toastnr-status. Then I want her to get cracking and pre­sent nw with several nieces forthwith. 
Mary Beth Ellis 
I prnfor aunthood Lo moltwrhood in that it provides nxtendml contact with rullle­intnnsive. l'uzz-lwaclt•d babies without fl\QUiring you to actually producn one yoursdf. Thanks to lhe fertility of your brother or sistnr. sonw of your genes are alrnacly roaming the earth for another gennraliim. There you go: nn-bakr; genealogy. 
With ninces and 1wplwws. thn parPnts takn cam of the hard parts such as hav­ing labor, wnatlwring adolcscnnn' and denying permission to play in incoming tra!lic FOH you. In tlm mnantimn, you'rn llu~ p1ffso11 prt\scnting llm child wilh mmwy and gil'L,; on a rngular basis. Who do YOU think tlH~ child's going to be hap­pier to sne coming up the sidewalk'! Thaaaal's right! Fun Uncle Brad! So in addition to winning the adoration of a small, looks-somewlmt-like-you child who·s alniady covering your lin1mg11 n\sponsibililies, you gc•t thr. added bonus of pissing off your siblings and in-laws to an extraordinary dogrnn. 
lmiiH•d, as wo can siw in !Im following sidi--by-sid1\ comparison, virtual mother­hood is far supnrior to actual mother­hood: 

MOTHER DUTY: Grow entirely new person vs. AUNT DUTY: Purchase napkins for baby shower 
MOTHER DUTY: Push eight-pound object out of tiny, extremely personal orifice while several brand-new acquaintances look on 
vs. 

AUNT DUTY: Show up afterward at maternity ward with mylar bal­loon 
MOTll[m DUTY: Deal on frequent basis with output of variety of bodily lluids 
vs. 

AUNT DUTY: Pose with child for baptism pho­tographs 
MOTi IEH DUTY: Must explain to child that, contrary to child's entire oxperinncn thus far, one is expnct­nd to pee AFTER mm pulls one's pants down 
vs. 

AUNT DUTY: Take child to zoo 
MOTi IEH DUTY: Finance approximate­ly 22 yoars of existonce vs. AUNT DUTY: Place five-dollar bill in annual birthday card 
Aunt Beth will be excellent at aunting. Aunt Beth will take her nieces and nflphews on educational field trips to the mall and the cocktail lounge at the local airport. But Aunt Beth will not escort the children to the circus. because Aunt Beth is afraid of clowns. 
Aunt Beth may also be counted upon to present the children with gifts that their parents would never, ever buy, thereby designating her as The Cool Aunt. For 
those of you who have already achieved aunt or uncle­hood and wish to 
achieve a state of Coolness, these gifts 
may include 
low­ing: 

-Paint -The frequent emmittance of loud, obnoxious noises -Anything requiring ignition by open !1ame -The words "Assembly 
Required" or "Not Included" -Anything breathing on its own -Melt-intensive food items Perhaps I'm such an advocate of 
virtual motherhood because I deeply fear actual motherhood. This is because at age night, I was officially placed under the Just Like You Curse: "I hope someday you have a little girl just like you," my mother said to me once. immediately fol­lowing an episode involving maroon nail polish, a can nrsquirt cheese and the car­pet. 
GARRY TRUDEAU
¦ DOONESBURY 

r~rM AC4f;l:Afte BIJTTHl&/S FOR7He CRAZY/ t,{JflY a6/../5fl
ZIP~ f'RA{JO&KJA!?. H.IIKI?~. TH~ I'S A 11./0(JUJI 8llY t/TCD/1<:ic JVHOA/le 6POTClfRX. An4!<&7eRM YCV'R/£EN­
Ya/." '\.. ?APN?'!' /¢JttliPIN. 
I /
I 

This will not do. If I ever produce an offspring that is just like me, one of us will wind up dead. You want to know what I was like as a child? Here's me: J have a normal body temperature of99 degrees. And when I was little, I hated school with a vehemence that people usu­ally reserve for the likes of the ms and Kathie Lee Gifford. So when I got bored with the worthless busywork that formed the cornerstone of my elementary educa­tion -an hourly occurrence -I would trot down to the nurse's office, wlrnro they had my home phone numbf1r on the speed dial, and announce the sudden onset of a stomach ache. Sometimes, just for variety, I'd get a headache. And they'd take my temperature, and -ohmigod, Mary Beth has a low-grade fever! 
This was on well-behaved days. Don't get me started on the afternoons my mother took me took the department store. 
There was one brief period, however, during which I didn't pay my daily respects to the nurse's office at all. And that was because one of my family mem­bers took me aside and begged me to please. please give my mother a break and attempt to remain relatively healthy for at least two weeks. 
Why did The Large, Angry Brat stay in school? Because the person doing the asking was Cool Uncle Jerry, who for Christmas had given me something called Pottery Craft, which needed assembly. created a satisfyingly lour! roar and included not only a sticky clump of clay but eight bottles of fluorescent paint. 
Mary Beth Ellis is a senior political sci­ence and English writing major al Saint Maryis College who is currently feeling a disturbance in the Force. lier column wm­ally appears every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are thosti ofthe author and not necessarily those of'l1w Observer. 
• nuoTE OF THE DAY 
,Ifa man hasn't discov­
ered something that he 
wi11 die for, he isn't fit to 
live.' 

-Martin Luther King 

VIEWPOINT 
page 12 
Wednesday, January 20, 1999 
¦ DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR. 

Of the Coming of the King 
Martin Luther King was probably one of the most loved and admired, yet maligned figures to ever grace America soil. The life and death of this icon definitely marked a unique place in human history. Long before his birth on January 15, 1929 the social structure "of the land of the free and the home of the brave" was one of division, strife and perpetual hypocrisy. According to some, America was an explosion waiting to happen, a social power keg. By 1968, the year of King's death. the National Advisory Commission on Civil Disorders deemed the nation as "moving toward two societies, one black, one white, sepa­rate and unequal." 
Since then, 
America has 
evolved to a 
more segre­
Rodney 

gated state 
than its pre­
ceding 
decades. 
Although the 
----========---language of 
Cohen 

Americans, in general, continues to be one oflove, harmony and "can we all just get along", the racial and economic texture of this great land continues to be lush with hypocrisy and wicked machinations. Even King, a man who indefatiga­bly preached peace and "civil disobedience'' began to notice the hypocritical activity of the country he so loved. Whether it was the back woods of sweltering Philadelphia, Mississippi or the posh surroundings of a "liberal" Northern suburb, Martin was constantly faced with the reality of separate, hostile and unequal. 
Just 90 miles west of South Bend, one of the most viru­lent experiences King was to ever face came from the lib­eral north -Chicago. In January of 1966 Chicago was hot and ready to explode. Dr. King, with plan in hand, moved into a faded brick apartment building in the North Lawndale section of Chicago (residents referred to it as Slurnsdale). His third floor apartment looked out on a community filled with pool halls, liquor stores, store front churches and secondhand thrift shops. After the landlord learned of Dr. King's presence, the apartment was duly cleaned and painted. King quickly realized that the activi­ties of the Jim Crow South was amateur compared to the treatment of Northern inhabitants. The scene in the white Northern suburbs was worse than any seen by Martin south of the Mason Dixon. Waving Confederate flags the suburbanites chanted "Nigger, Nigger, Nigger", while others pronounced, "Wallace for Cod." 
If we observed present day King celebrations and cere­monies as a template for the past, many would think that Martin Luther King and the Civil Rights Movement was embraced, at least partially, by all Americans. The truth of the matter is that many Americans continue to be mild­ly interested about the plight of the disenfranchised, par­ticularly those of racial minority groups, e.g. black and Hispanic. The questions and conversations that should be raisr:id need to be one of sound analysis and intellectual introspection, not one of false promises an<l grandeur's of "hope". The question which continues to haunt America is: has King's dream become a nightmare, or just that -a dream. One gentlPman put it best when he said "in order to dream, you must be asleep." 
How long must it be before Americans come to the table of good consciousness and discuss seriously the "divide" which exits between the races. Although some (black) scholars such as William Julius Wilson and Shelby Steele emphasize the declining significance of race, there continues to br. substantial evidence that points to the pertinent role of the anthropomorphic distinction of race. Be it affirmative action, Rodney King or O.J. Simpson, America continues to be divided along racial lines and ideologies. 
Martin discovered at an early age that regardless of class, education or religious affiliation, being black meant being marked. Although Michael Luther King (his birth name, before being changed to Martin) was born of black elite parentage, his burden was shared. Shared with the many blacks of African decent, be it Ph.D. or ignorant. The cultural container of black Atlanta taught King early that even in the North being black meant, 'Tm sorry but you must have a reservation, being black meant, "restricted", "no vacancy." He learned that by 1896 the highest court of this land deemed segregation as not vio­lating the 14th Amendment, so long as blacks had their own everything -rest rooms, drinking fountains, schools, etc. Thus began the warring principles in the mind of King concerning equality, justice and Christian thought. 
Although segregation was to become an undying pas­sion for the soon to be King, it was segregation that pro­duced the environments which provided Martin with the needed spiritual fortitude and cultural ammunition. In 1944 it was when King entered Sale Hall on the campus of Morehouse College in Atlanta that the ideologies he had been exposed to as a child began to crystallize into social change. As a result of encountering such black luminaries as Benjamin Mays and Howard Thurman, King began to formulate questions and store them for lat­ter use. 
It was not until King's junior year in college that he decided to pursue the ministry many, initially Martin's interest was law or medicine. By seventeen Mart.in would be delivering his first sermon. In 1947, three years after entering college, King would become an ordained minis­ter. Equipped with a solid education and spiritual train­ing, Martin would take summer jobs which exposed him to the problems of poor blacks. Although Martin was positioned. do to the connections of his father with the black elite, to take plush white collar jobs, Martin chose to experience the front line. One of his summers he spent working as a work hand for a railway unloading trains and trucks. While working at the rail yard, he noticed that regardless of equal work by blacks and whites, blacks continued to be compensated substantially less. Martin remember what his sociology professor -Walter Chivers -at Morehouse said in class. "Money is not only the root of evil but also of race." 
It was not until Martin attended seminary at Crozer Theological in the North that he experienr,ed an integrat­ed school setting. One of six blacks out of a student body of 100, he was determined to set an example and be his best. Martin felt watched and didn't want to display any of the bad qualities whites associated with blar,ks. Martin would fight diligently to refute claims such as those by writer, H.L. Mencken, who wrote, "The educated Negro of today is a failure, not because he meets difficulties in life, but b?.cause he is a Negro. His brain is not fitted for the higher forms of mental eITort: his ideals remain those of a clown." 
King would go on to become the most admired student at Crozer. He was elected student body president and voted seminarian-most-likely-to-succeed. One afternoon while at Crozer, King ventured to nearby Philadelphia to hear a sermon by Mordecai Johnson, then President of Washington's Howard University. It was then that he heard of the notion of brotherly love as a weapon against wicked injustice. Afterwards, King would gather as much information as possible on non-violence and Gandhi. 
Although Martin was born in 1929, it was not until 1955 that a "King" was born. Early one December evening, the stores of Montgomery i\.labama were closing for the Christmas season. As the department stores emp­tied, a distinguished women of 43, who worked as a seamstress decided to board a public bus which began to fill with passengers. As the bus filled, the woman looked and luckily found a seat near the front of the bus. As she sat down and eased the heel of her shoe off, the bus began to proceed along its normal route. By the time the bus pulled in front of the Empire Theater, there were no longer any seats remaining. Six passengers of white skin boarded, as the normal practice the driver turned and stated, "let me have those seats." Three black passengers jumped to their feet immediately. But the seamstress ­Mrs. Rosa Parks -did not move. Suddenly she chose to forget her color and remembered that she was a human being. Soon afterwards, Mrs. Parks was arrested, thus setting in motion the Montgomery Bus Boycott. As a result, King and others were recruited to assist in the Boycott which served as the impetus for the Civil Rights Movement. It was do to the choice of Mrs. Parks to sit down that King and other had to stand up. 
Martin Luther King would of course continue his pur­suit of equality and justice for the next 13 years until that dreadful <lay in Memphis when King and his dream came to an abrupt end. That act which King so adamantly abhorred -served as his final episode. Ironically, the death of a non-violent King would set of a chain of violent acts. Black power leaders such as Stokely Carmichael (also known as Kwame Toure) cried out, "go home and get your guns." During the weekend of King's death, 168 cities and towns felt the pain of civil disorder. A total of 72,880 Army and National Guard troops had gone on duty throughout the nation. And over 20,000 people were arrested. 
The popular cliche of people every January 15 is, "what would King think." What would he think ? \-\That would he think of the fact that although over 50% of the drug users in America are white, over 90% percent of the inmates convicted for drugs are non-white ? What would he ihink of the obvious racial divide of the 0.J. case? Whal would he think of the increasing gap between rich and poor? 
. What would he think of prop 209, and the attack on Affirmative Action? What would he think of the continue conflict of Palestine and Israel ? What would he think of the fact that, although certain legislation has changed, the hearts of many continue to be hard, cold and gross ? What would he think of our nation 30 years after Civil Rights: A Nation of "Two Nations." 
What would he think ? What do you think ? 
Rodney Taliaferro Cohen 
Director of Urban Programming & Outreach Development Center for Social Concerns January 19, 1999 
What 
Holiday? 


What do the city, state and federal govern­ment otfices. thP New York Stock Exchange, banks, school corporations and most other business establishments havo in common???? 
They all recognize the birth of St. Martin · Luther King, Jr. (yes, he has been granted sainthood by the Church) as a national holi­day. 
As I read over the letters in the past two issues of the Observer from Father Malloy and fellow students, 1shook my head in disbelief because the student body has yet to realize that we do not need the University's permis­sion to acknowledge what a great man St. Martin Luther King was and how his teachings and efforts have impacted so many lives. 
Ironically, there was also a letter in Tuesday's issue regarding the fact that stu­dents who will be participating in this week­ends Hight To Life march are not excused from the classes they will miss. Since St. Martin Luther King's teachings were 'inline • with thosr, of the church, wouldn't it make sense to excuse students who decide to skip class to participate in some of the activities scheduled in South Bend? 
The University acknowledges the contribu­tions King made to this country during the Civil Bights Movement, but at the same time conveys the message that those contributions, as well as his life, are not important enough to justify canceling classes. 
Silly me, l thought that since two of Notre Dame's presidents were heavily involved with the movement the University would at least make an effort at organizing some type of cel­ebration so we could join the millions (yes, millions) of other people who recogniw King's efforts as a blessing to us all. 
There is one thing that I have noticed about Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students: they are nut afraid to speak-up when they want to invoke change. 
Unfortunately, students have been com­plaining for years about the University's reluc­tance to acknowledge King's birthday but to no avail. I have a suggestion for all students who feel that it is time for a change: 
Next year when King's birthday arrives, do not go to class. How can a professor lecture if there are no students to lecture to? Besides, how many of us would even have the opportu­nity to attend Notre Dame if the Civil Rights Movement had not taken place? 
Monise Seward 
Senior Off-Campus Janua,y l9. 1999 

VIEWPOINT 
-Wednesday, January 20, 1999 os~ERVER page 13 

¦ AWAKENINGS 

Taking the Time to Reflect on Cultural Differences 
Trust is Key to Faith and Relationships 


Trust. 
It is a powerful word. It is a powerful concept. 
In a family. trust bonds parents and children together -even better than 
love, in some ways. Parents trust their children to be in school, to do what they say they are doing, and to follow the household rules. Children trust their parents to provide home, food, clothes, and guidance. If either of these trust­ing bonds is broken, sometimes it is difficult to repair. 
In relationships, trust is also a 
bond. True friends do not lie to each 
other. True friends work ro,· the 
best. Gossiping behind a friend's
Julie A. 
back is a breach of trust. 
Each of us has a responsibility to 
maintain the trust of others. Not 
only does it affect our "reputation,"
Ferraro 
but it affects our entire lives. If we 

cannot be trusted, it is unlikely that ---------------we will be able to hold a job. If we cannot be trusted, friends and loved ones will drift away. 
But, how do we earn someone's trust? It may mean opening ourselves a bit, exposing ourselves to possible hurt and pain. It may be difficult to admit a mistake and face the consequences, but that is part of being trustworthy. Ifwe try to "pass the buck" or blame someone else, we stand to lose much. 
Admitting our feelings is part of trust. If a family member dies, there is noth­ing wrong in crying and feeling sad. We don't have to "put up a front" for oth­ers and act strong. We arc all vulnerable, and showing that vulnerability to those closest to us is proof that we trust them. They trust us, in turn, knowing that we are being honest and sharing with them. 
Another aspect of trust means doing what is required of us. When our instructors give us an assignment in class, we do it ourselves instead of plagia­rizing someone else's work. Realizing that parents expect the children they pay to send to college to attend classes, we go instead of "skipping" and head­ing to the lake. Underage individuals do not go out drinking alcoholic bever­ages -not only because it's against the law, but because it breaks the bonds of trust. 
A popular excuse for ignoring the issue of trust is "It's no big deal, I won't get caught." Every parent knows, as a matter of course, that lies or sneaky behavior is always discovered in the end. An individual may not end up being kicked out of college, or with a police record, or unemployed, but the bonds ol' trust have been broken, all the same. 
What has trust to do with faith? We are told to "trust in God." It may give us pause to consider if God behaved as we do, would we be able to trust Him? If the claims of divine love proved to be so much "bull," we would we not turn away? (l say this realizing that atheists in the crowd may be thinking, "That's exactly why I don't believe.") 
It is part or our nature to trust, and when our trust is "misplaced" it causes a great deal of emotional pain. A parent will mourn over not boing able to trust a child. A child will mourn if a parent abandons the family. Dorm roommates will mourn -in their own way -when they are seemingly betrayed by the very person sharing their room. 
Trust means being a little more careful in the choices we make. If we can ask ourselves, prior to making certain decisions, "Will what I'm doing hurt those I care about most?" then that is a step in the right direction. The bond of trust will grow and strengthen ifwe do which, little by little, will help make the world a bettor place. 
Julie A. Ferraro is the local sales representative for Faithwear. and is the executive director ofThe Pit Troupe theatre company. lier column appears every other Wednesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

This pasL l\fonday, Martin Luther King Day, I hopped in my car around 11 :00 AM lo swing by tlw South Bcll(I llousing Authority. I work with them on a service prnjocl and wantocl to drop off some mate­rial for lhr.m to r1wi11w. 
When I arrived, tlw door was locked. I knockPd and lrit>d to pePr insidn the front window. As I began to walk away, the door swung oprm. Standing them in casual dress was Barbara Lawson, the Hnsident 1nitiativr.s 1Jir1~ctor, who happnns to be /\f'rican-;\merican. 
J.P. 
Cooney 
"Conw in," slm said. 
"Wlwn~ is 1JV1iryhody," I asked her. 
"You know W(i'rc off today," she rnplind. 
"Off today? Why?" 
"It's Martin Luther King Day." 
"Oh. Oh rny gosh. llow embarrassing." 
"You know, we all should take some time Lo rnllHcl." slw said to me, obviously 
awarP that I had let llrn bubble that is 
Notre Dam!' nnV(\lop me. 
Tlw sorvic1i project that I volunteer /'or, Tt\amwork !'or Tomorrow. is an after­srhool program with over thirty children who livn in public housing. The kids get an hour of mading instruction, an hour of athletic instruction, and a snack consisting ofjuicn and fruit. The kids are almost all African-American. 
The volunteers (all Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students). on the other hand, am virtually all white. I've often wondered what Urn ramifications of this is for the kids -perhaps it's not the best of environ­ments, but it is certainly bntter than the alternative: no after-school program at all. 
Wn wnre aware of this from the pro­gram's gnl-go, and tried to plan accord­ingly. Our goal was, and still is, ttl turn this potentially awkward situation into a positivt! one -for the kids and the volun­Llwrs. Though the issue of race relations has nevnr come up ovnrtly, it cerlainly underlies the program. and impacts our relationship with the kids. 
On Lhe program's first clay, l'or which all of Lim tutors and kids wnrc particularly lirnd up, we madn our lirsl misstep. We askml to kids to make a me-collage, a col­lagn ol' magazine pictures all about them­s<dvns. This way we could get to know thmn a little better. 
t\rtiir nxplaining what they Wl'l'C sup­pnscd to do, we distributfld a sot of maga­zines that we had collected from recycling bins in dorms on campus. Not two minutes had passnd when an 8-ycar-old girl tuggnd on a volunteer's liig and informed hnr that "them am no black peopln in those magazines." 
As the holiday season approached, we were lucky enough to receive a donation or gifts for each child in the program. /\ftor distributing them, we asked thn kids to design a poster for the generous indi­vidual who made the donation. Heferring back to my training in public secondary school, I wanted to make sum that I was "inclusive" of all religious backgrounds and faiths in my explanation ()f what to do. I told the kids that they should offer any type of' sPason's grcntings thuy want: "Christmas, llanukah, or whatever -you can draw Christmas trees, Santa Claus, a Minorca, whatevnr you want." Again, a young girl informed me that she didn't think "anybody around hero celebrates llanukah. but we do observe Kwanza." 

Monday's visit to the SBIIA on Martin 
Luther King Day was just another suhtle 
display of my ignorance when it com.es to 
matters of race and cultural awareness. I 
like to think of myself as an informed and 
sensitive person -after all, I have friends 
of different races and backgrounds; my 
mnntor happens Lo be black; I played ball 
with kids or different races as I grew up. 
So that makes me "with it," right'? Nol 
necessarily. 
Some might dismiss the slip-ups I have 
described as small. Some might say they 
are inconsequential. But they represent an 
unconscious lack of awareness and even 
ignorance. All of us, whether we are 
white, black, brown, yellow, or wbatever, 
have at some point in our lives been 
insensitive towards a person of another 
culture or race. We've all "slipped-up" ­
said somulhing we shouldn't have or did 
something we regret. 
The best among us catch il right away, 
and don't Int it happen again. Others are 
unaware of the slip, or ignore that it hap­
pened. In most of these cases, nobody 
wants to act the way they did, most people 
want to he inclusive and sensitive. But the 
only way to improve is to reflect. 
Would one among us forget about the 
Fourth of .July or Memorial Day? Of course 
not. These are clear opportunities to 
rnllect on America, its founding, and our 
values. On these days we contemplate the 
words "lifo, liberty, and the pursuit of 
happiness," and pay homage to those who 
pledged tlwir "lives, fortunes, and sacred 
honor." llow can't you rellcct on these 
mattnrs when countless displays of lire­
•works stream through the sky. and the networks repeat the Star Spangled Banner as though it was a pop favorite? 
This is the whole point. As with many 
issues which involve race. we oftentimes 
let Martin Luther King Day slip by without 
reflecting on what this extraordinary per­
son accomplished and taught us. We don't 
take time to consider the changes he 
helped bring about, and the courage that 
all the men and women who were 
involved in the civil rights movement dis­
played. 
Ms. Lawson was right-if we all just 
took a moment to rellcct. our lives, subtle­
ty but meaningfully, might be different. 
Some f'ret confronting, pondering, and discussing race. "It will only make mat­ters worse," they claim. But as Dr. King put il: "There can be no resurrection with­out the crucifixion, no freedom without suffering; the cross we bear precedes the crown we wear. The be a Christian one must take up his cross, with all of its diffi­cultir.s and agonizing and tension-packed content and carry it until that very cross loaves its marks upon us and redeems us to that more excellent way which comes only through suffering." 
In other words, wn must confront evil head on. In 1999 that confrontation doesn't have to be through a march or sit in. it must be in our hearts, minds, souls, and ordinary deeds. If we all just took a moment to rei1ect. 
J.P. Cooney is a senior government and and economics major. Jiis column appears every other Wednesday. lie can be reach­es at cooney.6@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


O
THE 

Wednesday, January 20, 1999
page 14 BSERVER 


Dave Matthews & Tim Reynolds 
Live at Luther College 
RCA Records 
*** 1/2 (out of five) 
Sometimes the best way to make some­thing sound fresh is to. strip it down to its basic form. It's not hard for someone to get lost in the twisted instrumental maze found in the music of the Dave Matthews Band. With all the many layers of diifcrent instruments gracing the tunes of DMB, it might be hard to pay attention to the actual song. On a few tracks of DMB's studio albums, it is almost impossible to hear Matthews' acoustic guitar because there is so much emphasis placed on violin and saxophone. Live At Luther College finds Dave Matthews ditch­ing his bandmates and instead opting for his part­ner in crime, guitarist Tim Reynolds. The two men succeed in providing an intimate live recording that captures the innocence and grace of several of Matthews' compositions. The album contains a mix of several DMB favorites, three previously unreleased DMB songs and one Tim Reynolds solo piece. Although the majority of the tracks have already been released, these acoustic versions will make listeners feel as though they are hearing the songs for the first time. Could you imagine "Ants Marching" without the huge violin solo section? Well, you don't have to imagine with this recording. Tim Reynolds does a fine job of substituting speedy guitar licks for the absent violin lines. On "Two-Step," Matthews and Reynolds show how the guitar can also be used as a percussion instrument with their wonderful interpretation of the classic carpe diem anthem. Listening to the album I gained appreciation for three things -the genius of Tim Reynolds, the personality of Mr. Matthews and the sheer beauty of the songs. Reynolds is an outstanding guitar player who basically puts Matthews to shame. Before Reynolds plays his "Stream", Matthews comments, "I can't go without having at least one song where I can sit back and watch Timmy just blow me away." Reynolds' incredible guitar work is so driving and fills out '.vlatthcws' rhythm part quite nicely throughout the entire record. 
Matthews shines through on this recording as a great showman whose act never gets old. His introductions of songs are often quite appealing and comical. Before playing "#41," Matthews says, "We will now play for you the creatively titled #41. It's almost as creative as the name the Dave Matthews Band." 
The songs presented acoustically are so beautiful that it makes a grown man fall to his knees. "Granny" is the best song Matthews has ever writ­ten and "#41" sweeps the listener into Matthews' world of innocence lost. 
I was somewhat upset by the editing of some of Matthews' conversations with the crowd in between songs. Although there is a memorable story with the song "Little Thing," this C) did not include some of the other funny moments that took place during the show. Also, some songs just work better with the entire band. "Dancing Nancies" lacks the dynamic of the full-band arrangement, and a few other songs cannot match the intensity found with the entire band. 
This recording is very relaxing, perfect for study­ing or just kicking back in the dorm room. Even though you won't find any drums, horns, bass or sax, you will find a couple of guys who enjoy the quieter side of music. 
Don't lose patience with this record. Listen to it a couple of times and then just try to say that it is not one of the most beautiful collection of songs recorded in the last decade. You won't be able to. 
Geoffrey Rahie 
In the town of Charlottsville, Va., there is a disproportionately large collection of talented musicians of many different genres. The most notorious would be the Dave Matthews Band. One of the lesser known of these musi­cians is Tim Reynolds who is most widely known for his work with the Dave Matthews band on their recordings, Under the Table and Dreaming, Crash, Live at Red Rocks 8.15. 9, and the most recent release, Before These Crowded Streets. Reynolds also occasionally performs with the band and has for the past several years been playing backup to the Dave Matthews Band on their acoustic tours. In addition, until recently the only way to catch these performances, aside from seeing them live, is on bootlegs. With the new re!Aase of onfl of their acoustic perfor­mances, more people than Aver will now be exposed to the very creative and very talepted musician that is Reynolds. It is important to note that Reynolds' work and talents go well beyond his work with the Dave Matthews band and other Charlottesville musi­cians. He is also an incredibly talented so.Jo artist. One of the best examples of this is found in his release of a live performance entitled Gossip of the Neurons. Reynolds, who is a master of every conceivable guitar technique and then some, has brought the expressiveness of the acoustic guitar to new lim­its. Combining the simplicity of an acoustic guitar with the delicate use of electric guitar effects, he creates a sound that hypnotizes you and allows you to close your eyes and float on the music. One of his trademarks is his ability for improvi­sation and five of the 11 tracks on the CD are just that. 
The performance also covers a large genre of music types including funk, jazz and some tracks that could be ranked as some of the best classi­cal guitar work. There arc tracks, such as "Big Blast of Hot Air," which are difficult to believe that only one man with only two hands is play­ing. 
The highlight of the CD has to be the very funk laced sound of "Loose Interpretation." This entirely instrumental performance has no need for vocals owing to full complex sound. Heynolds does sing as well as play a number of other instruments besides guitar including bass, piano, sitar, mandolin, violin and a plethora of ethnic percussion instruments -all self-taught. 
Right now, the best way to get ahold of this CD is through his website, www.timreynolds.com. Soon Reynolds will also release a live perfor­mance with his new band, Puke Matrix. Reynolds is also featured on a number of other smaller releases on several different labels such as his work with Greg Howard in the band Sticks and Stones. These CDs are somewhat hard to find but well worth the effort. 
James Schuyler 

Photo courtesy of TR Music 
Tim Reynolds 

Gossip of the Neurons 
TR Music 
***** (out of five) 

TICKETS WILL BE COINC ON SALE THIS SATURDAY AT 9 A.M. FOR 
ROD STEWART JOYCE CENTER APRIL 14 

Wednesday, January 20, 1999 olsERVER page 15 


Ani I>ifranco has como a long way from tho spriln liltln nru~nn-yoar-old punk l'olksingr.r that usnd to wow audiences in the col'fcnhcn1s,1s and clubs ol' Buffalo, NY. With lwr pnreussiw acoustic guitar and a voicn Lhat gops from jilll1d lover to ragi11g rock star at th1i drop of' a hat, Difranco has explored and nx111u1tlnd thn boundari(]s of folk music and llrn possibilitiPs of thn individual performer. /\!'tor making Billboard's Tup 200 d1art with her last lh1·1i11 albums. slrn nxplodns on tho scenH once nrnn' this wiwk with her lalost roller-coaster ridt> of poPtry, plink, rock and folk music, lip lip {Ip ( Ip Up Up. 1.ik,~ lwr prnvious album, Utile J'laslic Castle, in which she t!Xplornd the realm or ska-type hrnss accompaninwnt, DiFranco's lat1lsl creation goes lrnyond the tradilional soloisl-plus-backing­mllsician styl1i ol' lwr previous work, exploring tlw stmic possibilities of the studio as well as the 1wM-grnwing sound of' her slowly accumulatr.d band. For people accustomed to Difranco's nrigi­nal ono-woman-band style this may be a little hard lo swallow. But l'or the more adventurous music lover, the rncm11 addition of keyboards, accompanied by the occasional bang on the water cooler and so­called "space phone" in the songs "Angel Food" and "Know Now Then," creates a funky mulli­tlixlurnd mix of sound. "ll basically is the sound of the band playing live in the studin, relating to our surroundings and ulilizing the various mikes, amps, and rooms available," Di Franco has said of the album. This spontaneity reaches its culmination on the final track, "llal Shaped llat," a 13-minute track (edited down from a lhree-ho1,1r jam) which com-


Son Volt 

Wide Swing Tremolo 
Wan1er Bros. Records 
***** (out of five) 

binos the creativity of the band into one funkadolic powerhouse, reminiscent of a coffoe­housc jam session run amok. 
The highlight of this album, like most of DiFranco's albums, is her tremendous talent. With a voice that shifts ,iffortlessly from whisper to scream, she once again demonstrates her end­less vucal range on such soull'ul meditations as "Angry Anymore" and "Everest." In favorites such as thPsn lwr warm horn'y-tones am high­lighl!~d by the sweeping sounds of Orn accordian or gentle strumming of the bass. 
In addition to such personally reOcctive songs as tlrnsc, Difranco also takes stock or the world aroLJnd her in songs suth as, "'Tis of Thee" and "Come /\way from It," which explore the effects of drugs on 1.mrsonal relationships both from a political perspective and a personal one. 
Although I did not like all of the songs, each one offered something new io be appreciated ­the words, the music or simply the performance. 
In Up Up Up lip Up Up, DiFra.nco reaches beyond the work of her earlier songs, which con­sisted mostly of acoustic guitar strumming, bungee-cord vocals and sharply feminist per­spective. Each song on the album combines emo­tionally insightful lyrics on wide variety of sub­jects with kamikaze musical melodies from a number of sources in a way that defies defini­tions. 
Kelly Cooney 
With its third effort, Wide Swing 
Tremolo, Son Volt has made a point 
of emphasizing the rock in their sig­
nature country-rock style. Listen to "Straightface," the album's opener, and you will hear a loud, urgent R.E.M.-influ­enced rocker. The song seems to be a reaction to those who have criticized Son Volt in the past for releasing two very similar albums. 
If you're not sure how you feel about chango, don't get too upset. The album does show conti­nuity with its two predecessors -what would Son Voll be without country harmonies, country rhythms and a fiddle or a pedal steel guitar here and there? Indeed, on Wide Swing Tremolo, tho members of' Son Volt manage to stay true to their roots-rock tradition while expanding their sound just enough by upping production and increasing the volume. With the release, the band remains one ol' the best in their genre. 
One would expect nothing less than the best, of' course, from Jay Parrar, the band's lead singer and songwriter and former partner in the semi­nal roots-rock band of the early nineties, Uncle Tupelo. In Uncle Tupelo, Farrar and Jeff Tweedy of Belleville, Ill., combined the influence of such country rockers as Neil Young and Gram Parsons with the honest sound of Midwest garage punk rock. The result was the creation of a new and critically acclaimed style of alternative music. 
When Uncle Tupelo broke up, Tweedy formed Wilen, while Farrar went on to create Son Volt Both bands have been remarkably successful within the Americana music culture. _ ---­
Son Volt's line-up also includes guitarist Dave Boquist, bassist Jim Boquist and drummer Mike Heidorn, but Farrar is at the heart of the group's sound. Besides writing the musical and lyrical gems that are Son Volt's songs. he delivers his work with a charismatic singing style that would charm any listener. His voice, which might mmind some of' Michael Stipe, is rough and hon­est and he colors it with a unique drawl. The drone of Farrar's voice is appropriate for Son Volt's music. It ol'ton sounds forlorn, lonely or sad but somehow it never fails to make the !is­tmwr feel good. Farrar's stream-of-conscious lyrics more often take the form of' phrases than comploto sentences, but his images arc always intelligent and thought provoking. 
With Wide Swing Tremolo, Son Volt has expanded on its electric tendencies, which wern present to a lesser degree on its previous two albums. In fact, the electric guitar is employed 

on almost every track, often in a jangly or arpeg­gio-driven way. Besides "Straightface," its effect is most noticeable on the upbeat, bluesy and resilient "Flow," the steady-rocking and con­frontational "Question" and the album's catchy little closer, "Blind Hope." All of these songs have such an alternative pop-rock feel that one might (]Ven picture Matthew Sweet singing them. 
Besides the extra amplification, llrn most noticeable diffcrenco between Wide Swing Tremolo and Son Volt's other albums is the amount of production that went into it. The album was rncorded in Son Volt's own practice space in lllinois, an old lingerie warehouso. The band teamed up with engineer David Barbe, and worked at their own pace, which gave them time to polish songs and follow through with somn of their experiments. 
This work is evidenced by the album's inclu­sion of two short instrumentals -".lode!" is an eerie harmonica solo, while "Chanty" is an acoustic guitar solo with an Appalachian reel, haunted in the background by strings and a droning backward-tracked guitar. 
Son Volt provides the proper context for these vontures with the rest of the album by whole­heartedly embracing the folk and country tradi­tions that were such a large inl1uence on their 
..::. 
past repertoire. The delightful "Diving the View," prophetic "Medicine Hat" and classic country and western-styled "Hanging Blue Side" reclaim the lazier country rhythms that make Son Volt so sublime. "Strands" is an acoustic country ballad 
-~~Ilise-by a-m-oanin-g slcc.tric guitar, while "Dead Man's Clothes" is the most somber song on the album. With Wide Swing Tremolo, Son Volt offers its fans the best of' both worlds. Their sound has progressed, but they have not completely aban­doned a good thing simply for the sake of change. All of the things that made Son Volt a good band in the past -Farrar's songwriting ability, his ability to ingeniously blend traditional American music with rock and roll and the band's charming delivery -arc present on this album, along with a delibnrate atltimpt to form 
•
and polish a more intense sound. Thn result is magnificent. 
J • [[
lm Ke y 

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, January 20, 1999 
¦ NBA 

Clubs pass players around the league as lockout ends 
As•ociated Press 
NEW YORK 
All sorts of deals are being made, from Scottie Pippen heading to the Houston Rockets to Latrell Sprewell going to the New York Knicks. 
Those transactions will be finalized as soon as the NBA lockout settlement is put into writing and signed, but that process continues to be delayed. Teams received a memo Tuesday from the league office saying training camps will not open until Thursday at the earliest. 
The day-to-day delays haven't stopped teams from moving ahead with plans to reshuflle players in anticipation of the season starting Feb. 5. 
The Chicago Bulls agreed to a sign­and-trade deal sending Pippen to the Rockets for forward Roy Rogers and a second-round draft pick, and the Knicks were set to acquire Latrell Sprewell from Colden State for John Starks and Chris Mills, numerous league sources told The Associated Press. 
Also, top free agent Antonio McDyess was expected to choose between Denver and Phoenix by the end of the day. 
Also: 
•Minnesota, 
Toronto and Denver agreed on a three-way trade sending guard Chauncey Billups to the Nuggets, center Dean Garrett and guard Bobby .Jackson to the Timberwolves and guard Micheal Williams and two No. 1 picks to the Raptors. 

•The 
Bulls signed· and traded guard Steve Kerr and center Luc Longley, with Kerr going to San Antonio, and Longley headed to Phoenix for forward Martin Muursepp, forward-center Mark Bryant 


and guard-forward Bubba Wells. 
•New 
Jersey reportedly acquired cen­ter Jim Mcilvaine from Seattle for for­wards Michael Cage and Don Maclean. 

•The 
Los Angeles Lakers sent forward Tony Battie to Boston for center Travis Knight. 

•Vlade 
Divac is waiting for McDyess to decide before he goes to Phoenix, Denver or Sacramento. 


All of those deals cannot be completed until league and union lawyers put the settlement into writing. In addition, both sides are trying to resolve several differ­ences that have arisen. 
The biggest disagreement concerns the new average salary exception. which allows teams already over thA salary cap to sign au extra free agent. The union wants the exception to be used for six-year contracts; the league wants it limited to three-year deals. 
The Bulls will sign Pippen to a deal worth $67.2 million for five years before trading him. 
Although the salaries for Pippen and Rogers do not match, the deal is allow­able under NBA rules because Houston will have enough salary cap room to fit in Pippen's contract. His salary for this season will be $10.6 million. 
Pippen, a six-time champion with the Bulls, had talked to the Rockets about signing with them as a free agent. He apparently agreed to the sign-and-trade deal because it allows him to make more money than Houston could have offered. 
The acquisition of Pippen should clear the way for Charles Barkley to re-sign with Houston for the $1 million mini­mum, giving the Rockets a formidable front line of Barkley, Pippen and Hakeem Olajuwon, and allowing Barkley to keep his Larry Bird-exception rights for another year. 

"I am excited about my new career in Houston, and even though everything seems to be changing, I hope Bulls fans everywhere will understand that it is time for a new era to begin in Chicago,"Pippen said. 
"Chicago has been my home for nearly half my life, and with family and friends here I will always treat the city as home. I only hope the city or Chicago will con­tinue to treat me as one of their own. Thanks for all the great memories." 
The Knicks emerged as the leading contender in the Sprewell sweepstakes after Golden State general manager Garry St. Jean told all the interested teams to make their best offers by 4 
p.m. EST Monday. 
Sprewell. a three-time All-Star, drew the longest nondrug-relatcd suspension in league history last season for choking his coach, P.J. Carlesimo. 
The Knicks will send Starks and Mills to the Warriors, two league sources said today. New York originally offered Mills and guard Chris Childs. 
The Knicks, Heat and Pacers had been known to be the leading bidders, and the AP learned that a complicated four­te am trade involving Golden State, Miami. Cleveland and Boston also was discussed. 
In that scenario, Sprewell would have gone to the Heat along with Bimbo Coles and Clarence Weatherspoon, with Golden State getting Brent Barry, Dan Majerle and Bobby Sura. Boston would have received Jamal Mashburn and Vitaly Potapenko, and Cleveland would have received Paul Pierce and Andrew Declercq. 
McDyess is expected to decide today between re-signing with Phoenix or going to Denver. The Rockets and Bulls were among his earlier choices. 
"Houston and Chicago are out of the picture,"agent James Bryant said. "Tony has analyzed the situation carefully, and he's most at home with those two options: Phoenix is going to stay a win­ner and Denver is going to be a winner." 
If McDyess stays in Phoenix, the Nuggets are expected to make a final push for Divac or Timberwolves free agent forward Tom Gugliotta. If MrDyess returns to Denver, where he played in the 1995-96 and 1996-97 sea­sons, the Suns' follback plan would be to sign Divac to play alongside Longley. 
Reports out of Belgrade said Divac would sign with Sacramento, but to do so the Kings would have to renounce the rights to Corliss Williamson to have enough cap space to pay Divac. 
The three-way trade involving the Timberwolves, Raptors and Nuggets had been rumored since Sunday. 
The AP learned of the Battie-Knight trade f'rom two league sources. It will .reunite Knight with the Lakcrs, the team he played for before signing with Boston as a free agent. The Lakcrs acquired Battie from the Denver Nuggets in last June's Nick Yan Exel trade. 
Kerr will sign with the Bulls for $11 million over five years, then be shipped to the Spurs. San Antonio was undecid­ed on exactly who it would send back to the Bulls, although Monty Williams was a possibility. 
¦ OLYMPICS 

First IOC membe.r reslgns arniisl growin.g scandle 
~Presa fJther Olymplc c;fficials have initiated by the Toronto com~ wq,1,,1Id resign?" said Defrantz. ~Js. t ~~y.tp;~ ·:I.ak]e:<· mtt!~!:' biddi~gfoJ• the<1996i .·.a'.~j~.ttz~ n1edal.i;9werip19.7p. 
.. '1 . LONDON Org . ing . C )\tee .;Summer Ga.rues; ·. ··... 'T guess it renews niy belief in 
The fifst IOC ·. m.emher ~resjd~nt
f::it1;!J~tJ~b~r1~b~~ifW~· '.Jj~f{f!1 
not one of the committee's the power hfokers·hu.ta.fdrnf~i' sprint champion who said her only offense ~a~ f?eingjOJl naive, ·' 
Pirjo Haaggman of Finla.n<l. Qne. o!the firsni.yµ wqtµ.~{L appointed· to the Iritefoatio-rial Olympic Committee, submitted .. her·restgnati.n Jn;;~t,l:'s~p :tQ• IOC President Juan Antonio Samaranch in IJaµsanne, SWitzerland. 41!:i> · • '+tr· · 

I-Iaegginan is one of 13 mem~ · flaegg:roan bets implicatedin .t!i~)llV('jsti-. lP ·· · 
gation. into .allegations. Qt oos; '}16 conductby roe dele ~,tes stem-. mcember. ming fr{fm Salt . mn~µig '.been, . bid for ·the 20 • >Winter . mnty. Games, the biggest ~orrupµon H · scandal in OlympH::. hi~tocy·;r . ·.· 
While Haeggmaiti was the fixst IOC memhei:to re~fgn 
since the scandal hrokei tgtee 
Classifieds 

okHk and ...·..... ian~rth.at ~h.en.• ~he wa~ 
·tQ:tasl(; ]i.hE\ $a.id ··'A.H 
. v¢iI~~j 
Ihave heerijudged guilty ill res ?' 
ggn;iij \FtBuf 
efore t vestiga­
,~~i~eil 
meet in etheir 9Illilletj~
~:board; 
teial said 
~~ oth~:r ·. 
xpulsion 
d em~ar, 
'ght 
sSl 
hir LjPY<;1il;
····••Abc:ie1 
~era
c&:n

ch Toronto committee and was .:$ergi9 _lll}~tjler ~gif,'tnor an agempttoarna:v.fd wiritheJOC member's vote. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for comem without issuing refunds, 
Sibandze (Swaziland}. 

Haeggman, 47. was an JOC 
member since 1981, appointed 
at the same session along with 
Flot· lsava•Fonseca of 
Venezuela. 

A 400-meter runner in the 
1972, '76 and '80 Olympics. 
Haeggman was 12-time .· Finni.sh champion at.JOO a,nd ·· 400 meters. · · 
"The IOC president thanks 
Mr$. gae~gmanfor atlthe ser-· 
vices which she gave to the 
Olympic rnoven1ent as an ath­
lete and as ·a member of the 
organization," an IOC state­
ment said.

Paul Henderson, who Was 
head of the 1996 Toronto bid, 
sai9 hi~ organizatiQI) .paid.the 
$650-a-month rent in Sault 
Ste. Marie, Ontario, for 
Ha~ggm1:1.n an.d her ex.h-us­
·hand. 

·... Henderson s~id the money 
was to>be repaid to the 
HOUSE FOR RENT. TWO BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. 3 bdrm. duplex, remodeled, 501 96 Toyota Camry LE,26400 mi. likeWANTED I _I_N_o_T_i_c_Es_~ 4-5 BR. Available June for Eddy St. 1 mi. from campus. new. $15,500. call Victor 219-277• PERSONAL Summer. August for Fall. Appliances, w/d. 2770 after SALES & MARKETING Spring Break Bahamas Party Dishwasher. Washer/Dryer, Full 273-8332. 5:00pm. I'm hungry, will there be anything to INTERNSHIPS Cruise!5Nights $2791fncludes Basement, Large Backyard and Off eat after the mall? University Directories offers Meals & Free Parties!Awesome Street Parking. MONITORED LAPTOP PC
FOR SALE

paid,full-time summer sales and Beaches,Nightlife!Departs From SECURITY SYSTEM INCLUDED P-133w/MMX Oh, Malia your so fine, your so fine marketing internships,open to all Florida!Cancun & Jamaica $399! CAIi 289-4 712. Office 97, Windows95 you blow my ...... mind. disciplines.College credit avail­springbreaktravel.com --------WALK Beautiful brass bed,queen size,with 32MB RAM, Carrying Case able.Training program.Great 1-800-678-6386 TO SCHOOL orthopedic mattress set and deluxe And Much Morel How about this tor a second date ... resume booster! 1(800)743-5556 or 2-6BEDROOM frame.New.never used,still in plas­Call Patrick @ 634·1236 ... a trip to euphoric piercings. Its www.universitydirectones.com Spring Break Panama City STARTING $185 tic.$225 just up the road in Michigan. Cross 
$129!Boardwalk Room w/Kitchen MONTH/PERSON 219-862-4043 the border and experience things Next To Clubs!7 Parties-Free 232-2595 like never before
• 
SPRING BREAK 99! Drinks!Daytona $149!South Beach Computer 486 33MHz TICKETS Cancun • Nassau • Jamaica $129!Cocoa Beach $1491 3BEDROOM HOME IN ROSE­$350 OBO x3533 I have other ideas, but you'll need Travel Free and make lots of springbreaktravel.com LAND AVAILABLE NOW 2773097 NEED 4 TICKETS TO to confer with me in person to hear 
Cash!Top reps are offered on-site 1-800-678-6386 NO/MICH. HOCKEY GAME them. staff jobs.All-Inclusive HOUSE FOR RENT For sale: Digitech RP-20 PLEASE CALL 4-3441 Deals.Special Discounts up to $1 oo 5 bedrooms, 2 baths, dishwasher, guitar floor pre-amp/effects proces• Now, more than ever.
FOR RENT
per person.Lowest price washer/dryer, safe neighborhood sor. Ex. condition, only 1 year old. BOB DYLAN 1st . 5 ROWS Guaranteed.Call now for details! close to campus, alarm system, $350 o.b.o .. Call Brendan at 287-WWF, RINGSIDE 1st. 10 rows Computers=money www.classtravel.com NICE HOMES FOR NEXT central air, large living area, fenced 9910, 272-7233, 800/838-6411 SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND yard, wood floors, one large oriental Money=happiness 
8,6,4,3.BEDROOM 2773097 rug, $1100/mo. Call Bill @675-NEW Rates Phone Cards Need tickets for Dylan. 0n6. 282 min.$20 call 258-4805 Call 634-1569. 

Wedm:sday, January 20, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 17 
¦ NFL 
Vikings' Billick lands head coaching job with Ravens 
Associated l'rcss to the Super Bowl for Lhe first Billick, the architect of the time, signing Brian Billick to Minnesota Vikings' record­BAl.TIMOHE a six-year contract as head setting offense this season. i\.rL Model! look the ol'fcn­coach of the Baltimore was hired less than 24 hours 
siv11 Tuesday in his bid to gut Havens. aftflr becoming the fourth person to interview for the job. "It was worth the wait." said Model!, the Ravens
Undergrads: 

owner, who was to introduce Billick at an evening nAws
DON'T MISS THIS OPPORTUNITY! 
conference at the team's sta­
dium at Camden Yards. 
Model!. who bought the• 
Cleveland Browns in 1961 
and moved the franchise to 
13a!Limore in 1995, has never
BIOSPHERE 2 : SEMESTER 'ABROAD' 
had a team that went to the Super Bowl. 
Billh;k takes over a team that went 6-10 last season 
Slots still available for 

FALL 1999 AND SPRING 2000 
and 16-31-1 in three years under Ted Marchibroda, who
Open to all majors 

was fired Dec. 28. Marchibroda was hired short­
Interested students should pick up 
ly after the franchise's depar­
an application or call: 

ture from Cleveland. Billick, 44, met with Model! 
152A FITZPATRICK HALL, x1-8376 or check this website http://www.bio2.edu 
San Francisco 49ers coach George Seifert, who signed with Carolina. 
Billick. however, was hard­ly a consolation pick. The Ravens were desperate to revive an offense that fin­ished 14th in the 15-team AFC in total yardage, and Billick comes to Baltimore with a reputation as an offon­sive whiz. 
But his credentials extend beyond the dizzying numbers that the Vikings rolll~d up this season. When it. became obvi­ous that Billick would end up leaving the Vikings to take a head coaching job, Minnesota coach Dennis Green expressed confidence that Billick had the ability to move up. 
"llc's a good fundamental coach, he understands what it takes to win a football game," Green said. "He knows you win as a head coach because you have the ability to coach the offense, defense and special teams, and you want all three of those factors to play togeth­er." 
Billick began his coaching career as an assistant at tlrn University of Hedlands in 1977. Prior to joining the Vikings, he was an assistant at Stanford for three years. Before that, he was the offen­


Interested in Doing Research at a World-class Research Institute?  
Undergraduate Summer Internships  
The Environmental Research Institute, a joint activity of Notre Dame & Argonne National Laboratory (ANL), in collaboration with the Center for Environmental Science and Technology, will award up to two Summer 1999 internships at ANL in Argonne, IL with a follow-up campus research appointment in the Fafl. Stipend, room & board are provided for the 10-week program.  
Student appficants should have research interests in an environmentally-related discipline (any field of study) concerned with or likely to contribute to the understanding, assessment, or improvement of the environment. Applicants must be US citizens or permanent residents, enrolled at Notre Dame, have completed their Junior Year by May 1999, and be registered to return in the Fall of 1999.  •  
For more details, contact the Center for Environmental Science and Technology: 152A Fitzpatrick Hall, 631-8376. Applicants will be required to complete an application.  
.,...  
Deadline is February 19, 1999  

MAKE THE TIME TO B~LD A NEW SKILL WITH THE SUPPORT OF OTHERS...... 
Structured Group Offerings Spring Semester, 1999 
,--------i In nri&tionstiips...U, atMn, ij.ollen ....,..like ii'¦ ltl9 aet1erpersonwho 15 
¦in!lf•-han~ causln!I IM probltrllt, but -or lh9 m,a rs -.ially our ,,.,... ot ~uw1111 aUl91$ th&t"s lnvlllng 11'\e con111;t. Frvm lllmty w lti,nds lo pnilessors to ~.ltwl way WII inlMae:t ha¦ 1 Wilt elf.cl on 011r own hapS)lnns. Ancl MVing "carabral smaru,• Of ~llirv good~ 
d~1 me..Na111n.on knOW$ hQw IO hlvt tultlllng confident s,er.oMI 
'-------.----' or wcrk rtlatiGAchlps. fli>d out how to amance your ,.l ¦ tionship& 'WWI your Jriefld .,,d family and how lo pn,pare lor ywr upcor,,ing lntel'lllaws Lum hOW to Increase ,cur iQ-yow E!110tional IMellg.nct1-byleamlng ab«lt yourself and how you c:.,, ,xpand r®r svw,gtis lo make yoLK Mlitlof\sll~ 11$11.K'Od, c.r,ar, .n<f «iJoyal,111 
u they can be! 

2 S.ulons: Tllfldar -January 26, 1 ggg incl fterua,y 2, 1 sia -5:Q0.6:00 p.m. Svrin Room. Lalor1U1'141 Stv~c.nt.r ,-----------, Th• Mytl'HkiggJ typ11 Indicator is • comrrionly ~•ed personality wtt 111hlch 
G__.... u·• give.. dffOripllori of • pen,on's pe™1n-'ity .,...._bo1h in tenns ot Per11onal ,.,...u, .,.ng poeltive on,ra.etarisli:s as wwll • poulbft Mtlknasse.s. TlJ8 Myers-Brigg& i3 • The popultr laal uMd in ~,..,..,,, Qlll'H rCO\IIIMlilg, ptrSCl!lal grov,,111, 
Myera,Brlg9s mariUl relallonslllp anti.n~lln!, r.pultual ;rowt11, as ...u u lmprq..;.,9 Personality Teat relatiONhips !Qr p~l4 wo,f\lr,g or &vtng t011'11her. i,,;, Is a on.-hout sessionL--------~ in ¥1tti0tl yrx, wtu be 91-,., Iha mub al your Mye1'-~lif$ llpSt with olh•r& who .,. also ,me.-itd h tt-i. a111a. Th••• \Nit! be llma for llUHlion, and dlscus;ion. 
P-"ll"-11&11on 1s requirwd in oroe, 10 rue lhe lesl befor. r<N' sas.slon. Yo11 must innaglster and arreng11d 10 taka lh• tut one Wffk oe/Ote 1h11 scheduled walon you warlf. The test takfi about 30-45 minutes and can ~ taken bol'Nllen 11 a.I!\. end 4 p.m. Mono1v ttuou~ Friday. If illarnled, ple1$9 call the UCC ¦tG:31-7336. 
Eilhcr Frid,)' Jcnuary 29, l999 Noon ICJ 1 :00 p.m N~ Dame Room, t.alorl\llle SWd9nl C81lter 01 Wtd~day '1bruary 3, 1999 !5:0Q.f.ilO p.m Sorin Fioom, Lalortune Student Clfller 
.-----------. Go 1n10 your weekend ra,nng g<Jod about ygur mind and body! Two a-slon c'4"41s COSIJOOIOml by Rec Sports ani tHllng held at 1h• ~U1ilul new fadlides of
Relaxation 

lhG Rolls Spqitt F11C111atlon Cenler. YOIJ .,;n leam a wriltty al phvsk:81 and m~tal
Training 

techniquH 10 inciJce le•~ol ralf.XJlicn .,d cam. Hert ,,. a few ol 1he m~ 
._________, b9nen1s; rt~anxiety as w.H •• othois C)lfflptoms of "'""5; lncrnses your allilily to concent~lt, helps reduce yovr dun to use nkiQline, lllcoh:ll, ~olM, etl;,. 11rid can .voerr b• used to fc{;lfi!alt r.ttful SlNp. Per!il;iparoll sl'lould -rll0mlor1Jbl• clothing. 
3 S.ulons: l'rldllY allamoOl'la, 4:00 • S:00 p.m. Cius I: J¦IMl,Y 2V. February 5, •nd i=.twuary 12 Cius 11: Marefl ~. ~ 9. 11nd Aptif 1e R-i,llltr in ad\lence lor Milar 0119 Qf lxltl'l ~CH :al RKS~rs; FM'. $10.00 
IThe Tu! /1,r,ay Rl<lu~ion W9!111hop is aQne hOU< p<ogrtm wfltch THt Anxiety 1n1rooucN wap 10 m&na~ unwani.d &l'lllitty during ~ti~for and ...---------'-Uklng of lestt or ••mineli91\$. Anldely man1911ment lfU1111g .,ill be offered '" ldelition lo specilli; 111gg"1;gl'II on how 1G beSI tekc lrw-1,i.e i.sts, multlplll cll<ice lest:! ltld GS:'-ly ie,ts. 
Monday Fllbruary 1 S. 1999 Noon -1:00 p.m., Nolr-41 OWn. Roorl, 
t.cfQrtunt Sludl>fll Cooler Tuesday 1-ebroary 1i. i:00 -&:00 P-rn.. Satin lwom. t.clo<lu<,e Sll.ld1111 C.111411' Mondcy Ap,tl IQ, NOOII ­
Laf"®n• Scudl'III Cenler Tuesda~ Aplil 20. 1999-5.00-s:oo pm. Sorin Room, Lalottuno9 9'1,jtnl CentGr 
emotl0n.t tntelllgence: An lmpor1ant Wll'f or Being Smart 
for dinner on Monday night and was signed Tuesday afternoon. The agreement took place one day after the Cleveland Browns eliminated Billick from their list of prospective head coaches. 
Billick has been the Vikings' offensive coordinator the past five years. Minnesota scornd an NFL-record 556 points during the regular sea­son and amassed a team­record 6,264 yards, but the Vikings were eliminated from the playoffs Sunday with a 30-27 overtime loss to the Atlanta Falcons. 
That freed Billick to inter­view with the Ravens, who could not talk with him until Minnesota was out of the playoffs. Before speaking to Billick, Model! interviewed Jacksonville Jaguars offen­sive coordinator Chris P-almer. Pittsburgh Steelers defensive coordinator Jim Haslett and Philadelphia Eagles defensive coordinator Emmitt Thomas, who ended up taking a job in Green Bay under new coach Ray Rhodes. 
The Ravens had originally hoped to get Packers coach Mike Holmgren, who took a job with the Seattle Seahawks before following through with his planned interview in Baltimore. Modell had also considered talking to former 




page 18 The Observer• SPORTS Wednesday, January 20, 1999 


Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Spons Information With all-American sabreman Luke Lavalle heading the squad, the freshmen sabremen are in good position to make an immediate impact. 
¦ FENCING 

Fresh-sabremen bulk up team 
Freshmen Crompton and Sze/le make leap to collegiate play 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Spores W rirer 

Returning a sabre squad that lfld the entire team through most of last season, the addition of two freshmen with accomplishfld back­grounds will bring the team to new heights. With all­American and 1998 NCAA champion Luke LaValle point­ing the way. Andrea Crompton and Gabor Szelle will have an easy transition to collegiate competition. 
Szelle is currently the eighth-ranked junior sabre­man in the world following his second-place finish at the Junior World Cup Championships in Budapest, Hungary. Szelle is from Hungary and is a member of the Hungarian national team. 
Szelle's international expe­rience will be great attribute to this year's fencing squad. 
"[International experience] helps," coach Yves Auriol said. "You fence at a different level. You are facing the top fencers in the world." 
Szelle has been so busy with international competition that he has yet to fence with the Irish in competition. 
"That's one of' the problems with going overseas every week," Auriol said. "It's tough.'' 
Despite the fact that he missed the first competition of the year, Szelie is still expected to play a big role with this Irish team. 
Auriol knew that Szelle could be a great fencer when he recruited him. He finished third in the world in the Cadet (16-18-year-old) divi­sion. However, success at lower levels does not neces­sarily guarantee success at higher levels. 
"When you go from Cadet to Junior, Junior to Senior, you know sometimes your results are not the same," Auriol said, "But he looks like he has a good system." 
Crompton hails from Irvington, New Jersey. He let­tered in fencing all four years at St. Benedict Prep. 
"I think [Crompton] will push everybody else," Auriol said. "He will push Luke and 

Gabor ... he might have a shot at making the world team." 
Crompton finished twelfth at the senior national sabre championships and second in the junior national champi­onships. 
Members of' the team think that the addition of the two freshman added sparkle to the season. 
"The best in the country," Auriol said. "I don't say that too often but at Louisville that is what everyone was saying." 
Much of tlrn credit for the success of the sab.re squad should go to coach Janusz Bednarski, according to Auriol: "He is working very hard with them. All the sabres that came here, they have improved. He's done a great job with the sabres." 
The talented, experienced sabre squad could hold the key to the NCAA champi­onship that has eluded the Irish since 1994. And if the sabre squad is going to suc­ceed, the talents of Crompton and Szelle will play a big part. 
• 
..,. 
'· 

SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
Student Acthrities Board (SAB) Spring 1999 Events 
J.i!.m!fily  
15 "Rounder's" Carroll Auditorium 8pm  M.ru:!.b. 3 Open Mic Night Dalloway's  
16 Hotel Prati (band)  8-10 pm  
Dalloway's 9-11pm  19 "You've Got Mail" Carroll Auditorium  
20 Open Mic Night  8pm  
Dalloway's 8-10 pm February 5 Think Fast (Game Show) Noble Dining Hall (Win $200 cash) 11 :30-1 ·'30 pm  April 14 Open Mic Night Dalloway's 8-10 pm 22 SMCTostal Ubrary Green 12 pm-12 am  20 "You've Got Mail" Carroll Auditorium 8pm 24 Frances Dilorinzo, comedienne Le Mans Lobby 8pm  
25 Frederick Winters,  
hypnotist  
Da11oway's  
8pm  
26 "F'-'',wed"  
(panel discussion to follow  
movie) •C II A d·t arro u I onum  Carro  

7pm .I' ') 
_,. "> t tl-iif?.ff .. -~ 


CELEBRATE GOOD TIMES 
&J@@/}J@W[J@fl@@U 
Want to getinvolved in J.pw '99? 
Help us make it a success·· by]Oir:iJng:the,. 
Sophomore··JPW!i'Cornm·itte~-<-.. 
::f)%''•
::···-·· 

lmportant·Meeting: .Thursday,,Jan£tst'· 
6:30 pm, Wal$t1. Ha.Jtl.otthgt:;t •·• 
Questions?··.Ca.fl :M~gt'lariat 4-26.9.... 6 
; :., ' . ':,:,,., ,·,,, :· " : ,: ·.. --,,,,' -~ ' .' ' ' .,, . ' ,'.' ' ,.., ·;,. :, ;; .· ·­

·-~,............ 

WANT TO MAKE A DIFFERENCE IN THE LIFE OF A CHILD THIS SUMMER? 
COME FORA JOB INTERVIEW TO WORK AT: 
CAMP SWEENEY 

A RESIDENTIAL SPORTS CAMP IN NORTH TEXAS FOR CHILDREN WITH DIABETES 
INTERVIEWS l"RIDAY, JANUARY 22nd FROM 9:00 AM to 5:00 PM IN THE LaFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
Camp Sweeney is an equal opportunity employer. 
Lea1ue 
21 at I0 ou1 our We
1Www,nd,e ·· 


__ ••
........,_____ -..., 
Wednesday, January 20, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 1~ 
---------------------------------------------------------''--'--­
No one needed a. game like In the second half Hickev was The win was the first at the him your wr,lcome." this more than the big man in the offense's bread and butter Joyce Center in 15 days and His lips proclaimed "yeah
Streak 

the middle. Averaging eight as he connected on five of his Irish fans got to see something baby" as he gave Graves an 
points a game and being scruti­seven second half field goal
continued from page 28 

niwd for his lack of' production, attempts. 
Fort.urw llily s,rnior captains llick(JY fiually turnnd in a game "We've been struggling of late l'hil llickoy and Antoni Wyche we hoped we'd sec from tbe 6-and I have also," Hickey said. "I respondml. foot-11 center. wasn't asserting myself like I 
Wyeh1i drained cons1icutivc I lo scored 16 points on eight­should offensively and this time three-pointers early in the scc­for-16 shooting and haulnd in I let it come to me. I was run­und half and llickoy turned in 10 rebounds and only commit­ning the Door and working hard his bnst gnme ol' the season. ted one turnover. and I was able to finish." 
C.'4411 OF 10 
JUNIORS, 
To purchase your Class of 2000 T-Shirts, see your Junior Class Representdtive: . 
Melissa Balchunas Lyons Meghan Tracy -Alumni Susie Caufield -BP Theresa Hoover -Off-Campus Michelle Viegas -Farley Joe Kippels -Zahm Erin McGee -Lewis 


Sarah Hoffman -Fisher & K~(),,!)$:1~ 
Kelli Markelwitz -Welsh 
Kelly Glynn -PE 
Alicia Coronas -Cavanaugh 
Nina Stephan -McGlinn 
Michaela Cronin -Badin 
Vin Kurian Sorin Amy Mediamolle -PW Eileen Conway -Pangborn Brian Seaman -Dillon Chris Shutler -Siegfried Erika Horne -O'Neill Job Turner -Knott Erich Bangert -Morrissey Michelle Greco -Carroll David Spinola -St. Ed's Michael Gehrke -Howard 


•• I . 
¦ ¦ I
BOOKSTORE BASKEJBAll 
co• 
1111 
PICK UP APPLICATIONS OUTSIDE STUDB\IT ACTIVITIES OFFICE DEADLINE JANUARY 22 DEADLINE FOR INTERVIEWS JANUARY 29 
they haven't seen in awhile, a enthusiastic high five. big Phil Hickey smile. Perhaps more important than 
Hickey's biggest smile came pushing his team's record to after he rebounded a. David 10-9 is that last night's perfor­Graves missed free throw, set a mance can providr, Hickey screen for Graves, who then something to build on. It can knocked down a three-pointer restore confidence in a player that gave the Irish a 51-42 lead who has been searching for and got the Joyce Center jump­precisely that all season long. ing. "I was happy I was able to 
'That was a big play," Hickey contribute in that way," Hickey said. "I got the rebound and set said. "I wanted to assert myself, a screen for Dave and he nailed and hopefully I'll continue." the ju{l1per and basically I just Hopefully those high fives and ran down the court and told smiles will continue as well. 
¦ SPORTS 8REIFS 
JAZZ DANCE -Como to tho Rolfs Sports Recn~ation Conlfir Activity Room 2 to get more information. Classes will meet Saturdays from 12:30-2:00 p.m. and Tuesdays from 7;45-9:00 
p.m. Cost is $35.00. For additional information, ploast1 contact. Re¢Sports at 1~6100. 
SWING DANCE -~ All levels are welcome for this semester long course that meets on Wednosdnys from 6:;i0-8:00 p.m. in RSRC Activity Room 2. To find out more, please attend tho information meeting being held at 6:30 p.m. today in the HSl{C. Cost for the class is $20.00 and space ls limited to the lirst 25 fo.rn~les and 25 males that register. If you have any questions, plea$e contact RecSports at 1-6100. 
M()DERN DANCE -This class will be tnllornd for a range of' abilities. Semester long course that will rneet Saturday l 1 :00 
a.m..'.12::·W p.m. and Tuesday 6:30-7:45 p.m. Cost for the dass is $35,00. For more information; please contact HecSports at 1-6100, 
.. B§GINNER BALLET -No experience necessary f'or this introduction to ballet. Class meets Sunday .l:00-2:30 p.m. and Thursday 6.30-7:4.5 p.m. in RSRC Activity Room 2. Cost fort.he class is $35.00. 
ADVANCED BALLET -This semester long course meets on Sunday 2:30-4:00 p.m. and Thursday 7:45 -9:00 p.m. Cost for the tlass is $35.00. Pointe will be olfored on Sundays 4:00­
4:45 p;m. Cost fot Pointe is only $5.00. 
SHORIN•RYU KARATE -Students are instructed according to traditional Okinawan h~chniquos. s,~rnestor long course that meets in Rockne 219 on Tuesdays and Thursdays 6:00-7:30 
p.m. starting on January 28. There will be a demonstration on Tuesday, January 26 in Rockne 219 at 6:30 p.m. Cost is $18,00for the somoster. You must register at RocSports. For more information, please contact HecSports at 1-6100. 
CROSS-COUNTRY SKI CLINICS -Put all this snow to good 
use! Pick one or more of tho following clinics to attend.I 
January 23 at 4:00 p.m., February 6 at 10:00 a.m., or February 
13 at 2:00 p.m. Come spend a Saturday on the snow covered 
Notre Dame Golf Course! Ploase rogistor in advnnco at 
RecSportl;i. Cost is only $5.00. 
SCUBA -This certification class begins Sunday, January 24 
and continues for seven Sundays from 3:30-7:30 p.m. Classes 
includo classroom and pool sessions. 
DOWN HILL SKI TRIP -HecSports will be sponsoring a DownHill Ski Trip to Swiss Valley on Friday, January 22. Bus leaves the Library Circle at 5:00 p.m. Bus will leave Swiss Valley at 10:00 p.m. You must register andpay at llecSports by today. Cost is $28.00 for lift ticket, e,qulpment rental and transport. Cost is $19.00 for lift ticket and transport only. Call RecSports at 1-6100 for more information. 



r.------------·. 
1 page 20 The Observer• SPORTS Wednesday, January 20. 1999 
I 






Every Major! Every Degree! Every Graduation Date! 
Bring your resume ta the Sports Heritage Hall, 2nd Flaa, Joyce Center Concourse! 
1999 Summer Internship Job Fair 
Sponsored by Career & Placement Services 
Thursday, January 21, 1999 1 :00-4:30 
Meet With Representatives From The Following Companies 
AIG Life Companies  CNA Insurance Companies  Hewitt Associates  Ryerson Tull  
AMS  CSG Systems, Inc.  IBM  Sears, Roebuck & Company  
AT&T  Camp Sweeney  Indiana Army National Guard  State Farm Insurance  
Abbott Laboratories  Cargill  KPMG Peat Marwick  Summit Group, Inc.  
Abercombie & Fitch  Corporate Staffing Resources  Legal Services of Northern Indiana  Supercamp  
Allegiance Corporation  Compaq Computer Corporation  MCI/Worldcom Advanced Networks  Sysco Foods  
AlliedSignal  Davis Conder Enderle & Sloan  McMaster-Carr Supply Company  TRW  
Allstate Insurance Company  Deloitte & T0uche  Medical Manager Midwest Inc.  Target  
American Express Financial Advisors  Discover Financial Services  Meritor Automotive  Technology Services Group  
Amoco  Eckerd Youth Alternatives, Inc.  Minnesota Life  Tellabs  
Amway  Enterprise Rent-A-Car  Morningstar  The Associates  
Andersen Consulting  Ernst & Young LLP  News America Marketing  The Children's Campus  
Arthur Anderson  Federal-Mogul Corporation  Northwestern Mutual Life  The Herald  
BOO Seidman LLP  Ford Motor Company  Old Kent Financial Corporation  United States Marine Corps  
Bachrach Men's Clothing, Inc  General Electric  Peterson Worldwide LLC  United States Navy  
Bank One Corporation  General Mills  PricewaterhouseCoopers  University Directories  
Baxter Healthcare Corporation  Harza Engineering  Pulte Home Corporation  Walgreens  
CIGNA  Warburg Dillon Read  

Gallle 
continued from page 28 
stealing the opening pass and turning it into a three-point play. The home team responded quickly through senior Antoni Wyche, who sank two straight treys. A layup by Hickey complet­ed the 8-0 run and tied the game at 36-all with 13.:47 remaining. Moments later, freshman llarold Swanagan hit a layup and drew the foul to give the Irish the lead for good. 
"We needed a spurt like that to win the game," freshman David Graves said, "so that we could get ahead and stay ahead. The crow~. got into it, and that was great. 
After Notre Dame pulled out to a 10-point lead. the visitors made their best effort at a last minute comeback. Two straight SHU three-pointers cut the lead to three points before a basket by guard Martin Ingelsby stopped the bleeding. But just when it looked like the game was out of reach, a pair of offensive fouls against the Irish gave the Pirates another chance. Seton Hall's last­minute, long-range shots fell short, however, and they were forced to foul Swanagan in the waning momcnti, of the game. 

Swanagan missed both free throws, but followed up his sec­ond shot with a rebound and was fouled again. 
"It makes you feel good," Swanagan said, "to be a fresh­man and to be one of the inspira­tional leaders of the team. The captains look to me to come in and play hard, and that's what I do every night." 
After Swanagan put what proved to be the ftnal nail in the coffin, the Pirates attempted a long pass that was easily inter­cepted by Wyche, He was quickly fouled and hit two successful shots from the line. The visitors hit a three-pointer at the buzzer. but it proved to be a case of "too little, too late." 
Notre Dame's balanced scoring effort had four players in double 
NEOTROPICAL NATURAL HISTORY Biology 294, 3 credits, Summer Session University of Notre Dame Course Dates, May 19 -June 16, 1999 
Spend two weeks in the field in Belize and Guatemala, Central America. 

Participants will have the opponunity ID acquire knowledge ofthe neotropic.s, and visil national paru and r=rvcs, ar,es, virgin rainforest. Mayan ruiru;, and the second largest coral reef in the world. 

Topics cgyrn:c;d iodu,dc: 
I. Tropical ecosystems 
2. 
How • rainforest functions 

3. 
Tropical plants 

4. 
Rmnforest fauna 5, Tropical savannas 


6. Mayan civilization 

7, Maya today in relation ID ecosystem management 
8. 
Coastal ecosystems: IDllllgOVCS, scagrass. and coral reef 


9. 
Marine fauna and flora IO. Neotropical resource management I L Ecotourism 


To rt:gUtc:r, contact: Dr. William C. Hamlett  Total cost ofthe course is $3600, which includes tuition. all meals. lodging. tnnsp0rtation. entrance fees. ecc.., while in lhc  
B-10 Haggar Hall. UND 631-7194, bamlett.l@ad.odu  field. A non.-rcfundablc deposit of S 1000 is required by March 30, 1999  1  
F-.cld itinerary and photographs from previous excunaons  I  
available at: www.nd.edu/-'Jbcme/suauner coune.latml  ·  

., •,• ··•.,.1•· ... -• -. 
figures, led by the duo of Hickey and Wyche. The two seniors rebounded from their poor out­ing against Villanova by posting 16 and 15 points, respectively. Hickey's 10 rebounds was second only to Swanagan, who had 11 boards and 10 points on the night. Freshman David Graves, who suffered a strained shoulder before the Villanova game, rounded out the high scorers with 12 points in 27 minutqs of 
playing time. 
On the other end of the court, the Pirates were led by Gary Saunders and Chuck Moore, who had 15 and 11 points on the night, respectively. With the loss, Seton Hall falls to 11-5 on the season and 5-2 in conference play. 

"It was a tough loss," Pirate guard Shaheen Holloway remarked. "This set us back a lot. We just didn't make shots. We got looks. but we didn't make them. It's hard to win when you don't hit shots." 
With their record now at 4.4 in the Big East and 10-9 overall, the Irish will get ready for their next conference rival, the Scarlet Knights of Rutgers. to come into town. Perhaps, if a few more wins are strung together, some of the magic that was prevalent 25 years ago could resurface again. 
------------------------------------------------~~~---------------------­
Wednesday, January 20, l999 The Observer• SPORTS page 21 
¦ NBA 
Rodman denies reports that he will retire from the NBA 

Associatc<I Press 
CIIICAGO 

The Worm took an uncxpncl­nd lurn. In anollrnr curious lif'nstylc• choice, DPnnis Rodman has relir1id -or has he'? 
ll011rs aft,ir his agent an n OllllC<) d T!H\S day that Bodman was "retiring," the NBA's most outlandish player tkni1\d it. 
'Tm nol going lo play this y,~ar," Hodrna11 told Fox Sports Ni:ws. "I um in limbo, hut I'm not µ;oing to say I'm retiI'1\d." 
And nm:1• ag:dn --just lik1• his bizarre wndding lo Carmon l•:hi,·tra --il showPd that noth­ing with Hodnwn is nvcr quite c!!rtain. 
In a stra11gn twist Parlii•r in llw -day, his f'ornwr coach, Chuck llaly of Urn Orlando Magi1:, said lw had lll'ard Hoclman hat! lrnm1 lr.Hfod to the N,lw Ynrk l\11i,·ks for Buck Williums --a rumor that was 
quickly shot clown. 
Hollman, whos,, multkolornd huir. body pi1•1T.i11gs and lalloos rnudn a fashion statenrnnt across tfrn NB/\ and lrnyond, has hnconrn llw latest star to ltiavl' Chicago as lhA Bulls rdiuild after Llw rntirnmont of Micluwl Jordan. 
llut is hr. gonn for good'! 

Tlw SPVPn-tinw rnbounding leacl1!r who once donned a wed­ding gown, kick11d a camera­man. hnacl-buUnrl a reforne and dutml Madonna is leaving the gam1!, Rodmu.n's agent said. 
"Dennis is rotiring," Dwight Manlny sai.d, although Hodman has t.:onsi<lered retiring in each of the last five years. "Ile doesn't want to play." 
"lie wants to go into the sports and nntnrtainmcnt field. Some people have convinced him that he wants tu become a movie star." 
Manley got the news from Hodman in a phone conversa­1.ion Tuesday and said there am several teams still interested in signing the wacky 37-ycar-old Hodman, known for his fero­cious workouts and frequent forays to I.as Vegas. 
Mnnley, wlw said he is scvcr­ing his relationship with Hodman, decli1rnd to identil'y the hmms that are intHrnsted in 
him. 

One team not interested is Chicago. which is housedean­in g this wlwk following the rctirnmcnt of Jordan. Scottie Pippen, Luc Lon!{ley and Steve Knrr am all headed to new tnams. 
Bodman won Lhrne champi­onships with the Bulls in I996, 1997 and 1998, and two titles with thu Detroit Pistons in 1989 
and 1990. 

lie drew a six-game suspen­sion for head-butting referee Ted Bernhardt in 1996 and drew another for 11 games in l 997 for kicking a courtside 
cameraman in Minneapolis. 
Ile was always in trouble, 
lirst with the Pistons; then dur­ing his brief stay in San Antonio, where his behavior damaged Spurs' chances at the NBA title; and linally during his three championships years with the Bulls, where he became a Chicago favorite. 
The man who once courted Madonna recently married Electra, his longtime girlfriend, although days later there were roports of' an annulment filing. 
In another bizarre chapter, however, the former "Baywatch" actress later denied the marriage was off. 
Hodman didn't need the ball to be effective. I lis career scor­ing average was just 7.5 points, but at 6-foot-8 he was one of the great rebonndr.rs in league history wilh a 13.2 average and seven straight titles. 
Ile had an uncanny sense of where the ball would come off the rim, in addition to the abili­ty to tip rebounds to himself with his long arms. 
And he was also one of the game's most bothersome dcl'cnders --grabbing, shoving and holding under the basket -­to the frustration of his oppo­nents. 
Then-Seattle coach George Karl accused Bodman of flop­ping to draw fouls during the 1996 finals, but he also was quick to say Rodman was the difference in a grueling six­game series with the Bulls. 
Hodman set various school 

records for shooting and Savages to a third-place finish rebounding during his career at in the NAIA his senior year. Southeastern Oklahoma State Hodman was selected by the from 1983 to 1985. He led the Pistons in the second round ul' 
1986 and spent sevr.n years 
there before being traded to the 
Spurs in 199:1.

Save Big on Mac & Windows Software! ....
He came to the Bulls in 1995 and blended with Jordan and

Notre Dame Students and Faculty receive up to 75% off retail prices on all software. Pippen to help Chicago capture three straight titles.
Call Now for FREE delivery on all orders until 1 /29/99! ADW 1-800-333-8571 
SS OF 2000 
JAN. 21 st 



page 22 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, January 20, 1999
-----------------------------------------------~·-----------"---..:..__--~ 
. . . willJ:i'egio on .Mo · 
... 
.·\·.. •..;;Jt• {;> ·.•. .},· ·•·d'. ' Th ,<-)½JIil).,
'> uoe:. · nr en -0 s.~ 
,,~J\Ugust~,final exam~f Some couises·-pri~i~ 
· ififffri $dence and .1~~gu9ges · · " I begin 
end befofe oraftertff~ftdates ~sum session Bulletin will contain CO!'Uplete schedul~, information. The Bu!letinwill be available atJi1e Summer Session·oft~207·Htlrtey,Boilct( beginning on Wednesday, February 10.. Info~'''' mation on summer courses, as itappears 
i Bulletin, is available c!jiti~stlrotfi!rs~ssi · site (http://www.nd.e~Ul,:,sumsessl). · 


Notre Dame continuirtQ1st~g~~~;~.Lind. graduate and gradu~testudents l~.residen 
.r 
during the.spring semester of 1999whoare\;> eligible to.retum in thefaH (Qirect 8ccess Registration by Ie ep one) 1Hov: register for summer courses; and 2} to add or drop courses throughFriday,Jung. 25. DART PIN {fersonal 1dentification.Mumber} summer will be sent to all contin\ling stude 
,Jn early March. CoursI f?U nom1%f~/alon all other course inforrrtation,'will'b~'publis the Bulletin and at theweb site. 
.t;. 
·<:," 

DART will be avail , ... 9t sum: . . . gif' from Marth 1Tto June 25. Students may register:ormake sth~guJe'cllang~~-Wheo~v they choose duringf . .eriod;·nc,<lppointm times are necessary. \ :;; · 
/>.'!, ~ :· 

Student·s may regi~t~~itsum~il~lion•· at any time up to the first day ofthe course; . Students who d~de.~9,Jegist~r: .. . ee-~I· 
.. on Friday,June 25 m~,rit"ompl" -· '1~tancJ .• ...· ·. summer session applicatton/cou~'selection'forin. ' 
. . .. : . . · ; .. •, ,:,~ •. ·i ·•:A·'. :•·:<· ,,. 
Air conditioned and'omi1a!r connhloned fi 
and optional summer.meal plan.~ WIii be avaiI~hie. , Forms tor these services may be'.··. ·· alned ··· · Summer Session Offic~: at a~y. .during . 
! AEROSPACE AND MECHANICAL ENGINEERING BIOS 494 Directed Readfngs 
AERO 499 Undergraduate Research BIOS 499 Undergraduate Research AME 598 Advanced Studies BIOS 569 Practical Aquatic Biology AME 599 Thesis Direction BIOS 599 Thesis Direction AME 600 Nonresident Thesis Research BIOS 600 Nonresident Thesis Research AME 699 Research and Dissertation BIOS 672 Special Problems AME 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research BIOS 699 Research and Dissertation ME 321 Differential Equations and Applied Mathematics BIOS 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research ME 327 Thermodynamics 
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION 
ME 334 Fluid Mechanics ACCT 231 Accounting and Accountancy IME 342 Engineering Economy -London ACCT 232 Accounting and Accountancy IIME 498A Engineering and Technology in aGlobal ACCT 334 Accounting for Decision-Making and ControlEconomy -London ACCT 371 Accounting Measurement and DisclosureME 499 Undergraduate Research 

ACCT 476 Federal Taxation AFRICAN-AMERICAN STUDIES PROGRAM BA 230 Statistics in Business AFAM 232 Social Problems BA 333 Investment Concepts AFAM 240 Introduction to American Politics BA 363 Business Law: Contracts AFAM 241 Introduction to International Relations BA 392 Business Communication AFAM 242 Introduction to Comparative Government BA 490 Corporate Strategy AFAM 306 Race and Ethnic Relation in the United States FIN 231 Business Finance (Section O1) AFAM 329 Introduction to Human Evolution flN 231 Business Finance (Section 02) AFAM 339 Culture, Identity and Conflict in IR FIN 360 Managerial Economics 
FIN 361 Business Conditions Analysis

ALLIANCE FOR CATHOLIC EDUCATION, MASTER OF EDUCATION 
FIN 370 Investments TheoryEDU 501 Introduction to Teaching (Section 01) MARK 231 Principles of MarketingEDU 501 Introduction to Teaching (Section 02) MGT 231 Principles of ManagementEDU 501 Introduction to Teaching (Section 03) MGT 240 Computers in Business

EDU 510 Child Development and Education EDU 511 Teaching of Reading and Writing CENTER FOR EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITY EDU 513 Seminar in Elementary Education (Section 01) UB 102 Understanding Societies EDU 513 Seminar in Elementary Education (Section 02) UB 109 Composition and Literature EDU 520 Development & Education in Early Adolescence EDU 521 Introduction to High School Teaching 
CHEMICAL ENGINEERING

EDU 522 Introduction to Middle School Teaching CHEG 499 Undergraduate ResearchEDU 533 Seminar in Mathematics Education CHEG 599 Thesis Direction 
EDU 534 Seminar in Science Education CHEG 600 Nonresident Thesis Research 
EDU 535 Seminar in language Ms Education CHEG 699 Research and DissertationEDU 536 Seminar in Social Studies Education CHEG 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research
EDU 538 Seminar in Foreign Language Education EDU 540 Exceptionality in Childhood CHEMISTRY AND BIOCHEMISTRY EDU 541 Exceptionality in Early Adolescence CHEM 115 General Chemistry I EDU 542 Development and Education in Middle Adolescence CHEM 116 General Chemistry II EDU 543 Exceptionality in Middle Adolescence CHEM 117 Z General Chemistry I EDU 550 Seminar in Catholic Education CHEM 118 Z General Chemistry II EDU 555 Teaching of Theology at the High School Level CHEM 119L General Chemistry I -Lab 
CHEM 120L General Chemistry II -Lab
AMERICAN STUDIES 
CHEM 223 Elementary Organic Chemistry IAMST 427 Jack Kerouac and the Beats CHEM 223L Elementary Organic Chemistry Laboratory I AMST 448 News Internship CHEM 224 Elementary Organic Chemistry II AMST 449 Writing Nonfiction CHEM 224L Elementary Organic Chemistry Laboratory II AMST 498 Special Studies CHEM 477 Directed ReadingsAMST 598 Special Studies CHEM 499R Undergraduate ResearchAMST 599 Thesis Direction CHEM 599R Thesis DirectionAMST 600 Nonresident Thesis Research 

CHEM 694 Directed Readings ANTHROPOLOGY CHEM 699R Research and Dissertation ANTH 329 Introduction to Human Evolution CHEM 700R Nonresident Dissertation Research ANTH 334 Infants, Children and Maternal Care in 
CIVIL ENGINEERING AND GEOLOGICAL SCIENCES 
Southwest-Taos 
CE 1DOA Civil Engineering ConceptsANTH 393 Prehistory of the American Southwest~ Taos CE 100B Civil Engineering ConceptsANTH 471 Archaeological Fieldwork CE 498 Directed StudiesANTH 488 Archaeological Field School 

CE 499 Undergraduate Research ARCHITECTURE CE 598 Advanced Studies ARCH 100 Career Discovery in Architecture at Notre Dame CE 599R Thesis Direction ARCH 510 Architectural Surveying, Greece CE 600R Nonresident Thesis Research ARCH 511 Architecture and Urbanism in London CE 698 Advanced Topics ARCH 512 Urbanism in Chicago CE 699R Research and Dissertation. ARCH 635 Sacred Architecture in Italy: Rome and Florence CE 700R Nonresident Dissertation Research 
GEOS 499 Undergraduate Research

ART, ART HISTORY AND DESIGN ARHI 169 Museums and Culture in the Southwest -Taos CLASSICS ARHI 451 New Mexico Art and Mainstream (Section 02) -Taos CLGR 200 Intensive Greek ARHI 451 Women Artists of the SW 1900-1950 CLGR 511 Z Intensive Greek 
(Section 01)-Taos CUR 207 Introduction to Old Irish ARHI 575 Directed Readings in Art History CUR 5072 Introduction to Old Irish ARHI 599 Thesis Direction CLLA 200 Intensive Latin ARHI 600 Nonresident Thesis Research CLLA 511 Z Intensive Latin ARST 133S Outdoor Painting Studio (Section 01)-Taos 
COMPUTER APPLICATIONS 

ARST 133S Outdoor Painting Studio (Section 02)-Taos CAPP 243 Introduction to ComputersARST 1335 Outdoor Painting Studio (Section 03) -Taos CAPP 315 Management Information SystemsARST 209S Ceramics I CAPP 385 Artificial IntelligenceARST 366S Photography Studio -Taos CAPP 395 Applied Multimedia TechnologyARST 599S Thesis Direction CAPP 451 InternshipARST 60P Nonresident Thesis Research CAPP 497 Special ProjectsARST 676 Directed Readings 
CAPP 498


(,.'. i Departmental Tutorial
ARST 696 Thesis Project

spring semester. CAPP 499 Special Topics
DESN 2801 4801580 Multimedia Design COMPUTER SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING DESN 330S Furniture Design I CSE 232 Advanced Programming
Tuition forthe summ~fses~i61'f p~99'wlfl DESN 430S Furniture Design Studio CSE 331 Data Structures 
$220 per credit hour plus a $40 general tee.··· DESN 485S Web Page Design CSE 498 Directed Studies DESN 496S Special Studies CSE 499 Undergraduate Research CSE 598 Advanced Studies

ARTS & LETTERS, NONDEPARTMENTAL 
CSE 599 Thesis DirectionAL 298 Visiting Scholar Studies 

CSE 600 Nonresident Thesis Research BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES CSE 698 Advanced Topics BIOS 110 Molecular Genetics, Technology and Society CSE 699 Research and Dissertation BIOS 294 Neotropical Natural History and Management CSE 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research 
of Central American Resources~ Notre Dame and Central America 


Wc:dnes<lay, January 20, 1999 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 23 
EAST ASIAN LANGUAGES AND LITERATURES KEOUGH INSTITUTE OF IRISH STUDIES ROMANCE LANGUAGES AND LITERATURES EAU 230 Modern Japan: Tradition and Change IRST 207 Introduction to Old Irish ROFR 102 Beginning French II EAU 232 Shodo: Japanese Calligraphy IRST 219 Stage Irish: The Irish in Plays and Film ROFR 103 Intermediate French 
IRST 601 The Creation of Ireland 1500-2000 ROFR 399 Special Studies 
ECONOMICS 
ROFR 500 French Graduate Reading

ECON 224 Principles of Economics II KROC INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE STUDIES 
ROFR 597 Directed ReadingsECON 498 Special Studies IIPS 427/527 Conflict Resolution: Theory and Practice ROFR 599 Thesis Direction ECON 599 Thesis Direction IIPS 4751575 Conflict Resolution Training ROFR 600 Nonresident Thesis Research ECON 600 Nonresident Thesis Research IIPS 501 Colloquium on Cross-Cultural Understanding ROFR 697 Special Studies ECON 697 Special Topics IIPS 530 Peace Studies Laboratory ROIT 101 Beginning Italian I ECON 698 Directed Readings IIPS 599 Thesis Direction ROIT 102 Beginning Italian II (Section O1)ECON 699 Research and Dissertation IIPS 600 Nonresident Thesis Research ROIT 102 Beginning Italian II (Section 02)ECON 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research IIPS 693 Directed Readings ROIT 103 Intermediate ItalianIIPS 695 Field Experiences

ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING ROIT 399 Special Studies EE 222 lntfoduction to Eleclfical Science MATHEMATICS ROIT 599 Thesis Direction EE 224 Z Electrical Circuits I MATH 104 Finite Mathematics ROSP 101 Beginning Spani!h I EE 498 Directed Studies MATH 105 Elements of Calculus I ROSP 102 Beginning Spanish II (Section O1) 
EE 499 Undergraduate Research MATH 108 Elements of Calculus II tor Business ROSP 102 Beginning Spanish II (Section 02) EE 598R Advanced Studies MATH 120 Calculus B ROSP 103 Intermediate Spanish EE 599 Thesis Direction MATH 126 Calculus II ROSP 399 Special Studies EE 600 Nonresident Thesis Research MATH 323 Introduction to Probability ROSP 440 Spanish Women Writers 
EE 698 Advanced Topics MATH 499 Undergraduate Reading ROSP 497 Special Studies EE 699 Research and Dissertation MATH 511 Computer Programming and Problem Solving ROSP 500 Spanish Graduate Reading EE 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research MATH 698 Advanced Graduate Reading ROSP 597 Directed Readings MATH 699 Research and Dissertation ROSP 599 Thesis Direction
ENGINEERING. NONDEPARTMENTAL 

MATH 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research ROSP 600 Nonresident Thesis ResearchEG 100A Introduction to Engineering ROSP 697 Special Studies
EG 1008 Introduction to Engineering MEDIEVAL INSTITUTE EG 498 Rese.trch Experience for Unde1graduaIes Ml 470/570 Introduction to Medieval Latin SCIENCE, NONDEPARTMENTAL Ml 471/571 Intensive Latin Review SC 498 Research Experience for Undergraduates
ENGmH 

Ml 497 Directed Readings SC 598 Advanced Studies
ENGL 301W Writing Short Fiction Ml 507 Introduction to Old Irish 

ENGL 313 Linguistics SOCIOLOGY
Ml 517 Paleography

ENGl 315G Women Writing Utopia soc 102 Introduction to Sociology
Ml 597 Directed Readings

ENGL 409B Writing Nonfiction soc 220 Social Psychology
Ml 599 Thesis Direction 

ENGL 440 Shakespeare soc 232 Social Problems 
Ml 600 Nonresident Thesis Research 

ENGL 487 The American Novel soc 242 Marriage and Family
Ml 699 Research and Dissertation 

ENGL 495E Novels Into Film soc 300 Foundations of Sociological Theory
Ml 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research 

ENGL 498 Directed Readings soc 302 Research Methods ENGL 500 English for Non-Native Speakers MUSIC soc 303 Statistics for Professionals ENGL 508A Studies in Critical Theory: Postmodern MUS 220A Learning to Listen soc 306 Race and Ethnic Relations in the United States 
Poetics and Ethics MUS 310/510 Piano soc 319 Sociology of Sport ENGL 598 Special Studies MUS 3111511 Organ soc 395 Applied Multimedia Technology ENGL 599 Thesis Direction MUS 313 Guitar soc 417 Conflict Resolution: Theory & Practice ENGL 600 Nonresident Thesis Research MUS 314/514 Voice soc 475 Conflict Resolution Training ENGL 601 The Creation of Ireland 1500-2000 MUS 316/516 Cello soc 498 Directed Readings ENGL 699 Research and Dissertation MUS 318 Woodwinds soc 599 Thesis Direction ENGL 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research MUS 319 Percussion Lessons soc 600 Nonresident Thesis Research 
MUS 415A/ soc 655 Directed Readings
FILM, TELEVISION, AND THEATRE 

515A Violin soc 699 Research and DissertationFIT 204 Basics of Film and Television MUS jl98 Undergraduate Special Studies soc 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research FTT 205 Introduction to Theatre 
MUS 598 Special .Studies 

FTT 219 Stage Irish: The Irish in Plays and Film THEOLOGY
MUS 599 Thesis Direction

FIT 221 Acting: Process THEO 200 Foundations of Theology (Section 02)
MUS 600 Nonresident Thesis Research 

HT 3611561 Introduction to Film and Video Production THEO 200 Foundations of Theology (Section O1) FTT 374/574 Contemporary Hollywood PHILOSOPHY THEO 229 Vatican II: History and Consequences FTT 407 Entertainment and Arts Law PHIL 201 Introduction to Philosophy (Section 01) THEO 241 Concept of Resurrection in the Bible and Church FTT 493A Broadcast Internship (WNDU) PHIL 201 Introduction to Philosophy (Section 02) THEO 246 The Problem of Human Suffering FTT 598 Special Studies PHIL 222 Existentialist Themes THEO 477 Teaching Theology at the High School Level FTT 599 Thesis Direction PHIL 238 Edu cation of the Spirit THEO 498 Directed Readings FTT 600 Nonresident Thesis Research PHIL 246 Ethics and Business THEO 499 Undergraduate Research 
PHIL 261 Philosophy of Religion THEO 500 Introduction to Graduate Studies
GERMAN AND RUSSIAN LANGUAGES AND LITERATURES 

PHIL 498 Directed Readings THEO 500A Themes and Texts in the Catholic TraditionGE 101 Beginning German I 
PHIL 603 Directed Readings THEO 503 Pentateuch
GE 102 Beginning German II PHIL 699 Research and Dissertation THEO 508 The Dead Sea Scrolls and the BibleGE 107 Continuing German 

PHIL 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research THEO 512 The Gospel of John
GE 240 Conversational German THEO 517 The Historical JesusGE 500 German Graduate Reading PHYSICS THEO 521 Patristic History

PHYS 221 Physics I 
V ­

GOVERNMENT AND INTERNATIONAL STUDIES THEO 524 Mary and the Saints in Liturgy, Doctrine, Life
PHYS 222 Physics II 

GOVT 240 Introduction to American Politics THEO 527B Intensive Course: Mystical Theology
PHYS 499 Undergraduate Research -GOVT 241 Introduction to International Relations THEO 529 Waking the Giant Mission of Church in Secular Age

PHYS 598 Special Topics

GOVT 242 Introduction to Comparative Government THEO 530 Fundamentals of Systematic Theology
PHYS 699 Research and Dissertation

GOVT 339 Culture, Identity and Conflict in IR THEO 531 Theology of Revelation
PHYS 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research

GOVT 397R Directed Readings THEO 532 Christology GOVT 599 Thesis Direction PROGRAM IN THE HISTORY ANO PHILOSOPHY OF SCIENCE THEO 533 Ecclesiology 
GOVT 600 Nonresident Thesis Research HPS 599 Thesis Direction THEO 534 Doctrine of God GOVT 692 Directed Readings HPS 600 Nonresident Thesis Research THEO 539 History of Spirituality GOVT 696 Examination Preparation HPS 604 Directed Readings THEO 546 Dynamics of Hindu-Christian Interaction 
.,Ill,_-· 

GOVT 699 Research and Dissertation HPS 699 Research Dissertation THEO 552 Christian Social Ethics GOVT 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research HPS 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research THEO 557 Teaching Theology at the High School Level THEO 560 Liturgical History
HISTORY PROGRAM OF LIBERAL STUDIES 
THEO 561 Christian InitiationHIST 270 Civil Rights in the Twentieth Century ?LS 477 Directed Readings THEO 562 EucharistHIST 301 Knights, Dragons and Mad Monks: Mid Ages in Movies PLS 478 Special Topics THEO 563 Liturgical PrayerHIST 308 Politics and Government, 800-1600 

PSVCHOLOGV 
THEO 564 Liturgical YearHIST 399 History of the U.S./Mexico Borderlands PSY 211 Introductory Psychology THEO 565 Liturgical TheologyHIST 490 Directed Readings PSY 341 Experimental Psychology I: Statistics THEO 565A Liturgy and EthicsHIST 590 Directed Readings PSY 350 Developmental Psychology 

THEO 5708 Eastern Worship
HIST 599 Thesis Direction PSY 354 Abnormal Psychology THEO 573l Comprehensive Review. LiturgyHIST 600 Nonresident Thesis Research 
PSY 397 Special Studies THEO 573T Comprehensive Review, TheologyHIST 697 Directed Readings PSY 453 Behavioral Pediatrics THEO 598 Directed ReadingsHIST 699 Research and Dissertation PSY 476F Psychology of Coaching 
THEO 599 Thesis DirectionHIST 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research 
PSY 497 Special Studies 

THEO 600 Nonresident Thesis Research KANEB CENTER FOR TEACHING AND LEARNING PSY 691B Advanced Issues in Statistics THEO 695 Preparing for an Academic Career in Humanities GRED 501 Teaching In A Laboratory In Engineering PSY 693 Research Special Topics THEO 698 Directed Readings GRED 540 Teaching Effectively in Undergraduate Labs in Science PSY 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research THEO 699 Research and Dissertation 
GRED 601 THEO 700 Nonresident Dissertation ResearchTeaching, Science, Math, and Engineering 
in Colleges and Unive1sities GRED 610 Preparing for Academic Career in Humanities GRED 611 Teaching Social Science In Colleges and Universities 
-... 
page 24 The Observer• PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, January 20, 1999 

Thought about being apriest but just. not ready? Want to know more first? Tnen take tne Plun~e tnis year at Notre Dame! 
Afive-week immersion -experience in community life with college students considering a religious vocation. 
Sponsored by the Congregation of Holy Cross, founders of ND and growing into the 21st century with more than 1700 priests, brothers, and seminarians on five contfn'ents. Participants receive upper-level theology 
credits. Totalmcosr$150 plus personal expenses . 
CHRIST EXPECTS~GREAT THINGS FROM YOUNG PEOPLE
. ,,c-:=>fC'i -..... 


":<,f"..._.:a•: 
t!1'OPE JOHN PAUL II 

Plunge runs May 20 to June 25, 1999. Current college students including graduating seniors eligible. 
Apply now. 
Only 15 spots available. 



Fr. Jim King, C.S.C. Fr. Bill Wack, CS.C. Vocation Director Associate Vocation Director 


.. 


Wednesday, January 20, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 25 
¦ WAY Our IN LEFT FIELD 
The state and future of the NBA after the lockout 
By JOHN COPPOLELLA 
Sports Columnist 

With Urn rntirnmnnts or Michanl .Jordan last week and Onnnis Hodman yostnrday. as well as th11 trad1i or Scottie Pippen to the Houston Huckots. ttw Chicago Bulls dynasty has officially come to an PtHI. Thu qunstion is. What now? Whu will assume Jordan's llmdership'? What toam will win Urn NB/\ Finals? /\nd, most importanlly. can the NBA sur­vive without Jordan and the Bulls in the wake of' L!rnir first-ever labor stoppage'? 
Tlrn answer lo those qu1Jslions arn: Morn basketball; Shaquille O'Neal. Tim Duncan, Grant llill, Kobe Bryant. and Jayson Williams; the Indiana Pacers, Los Angeles Lakers, or l!ocknls; and Yes. 
Yes. Jordan is rntin~d. Arguably Urn greatest player to play tho game, his voic! will bn l'elt for y,1ars to come, hut thn game will march on -just likn it did when Wilt Chambnrlain, Oscar Hohertson, Dr. .I, Magic Johnson, and Larry Bini retired. Basketball has always lrn1rn likn this: before Jordan. Magic and Bird built tlw game; bel'orn thclll, Dr. J was the top attraction; and so on. Jordan will lrn missed -Im has been recugnized as t\nwrica's favoritn athlnto since I was in junior high school -and will rrnvnr Im fully rnplact'd. 
Though them can nevnr be another Jordan. them are a number of play­ers who will step up and assume Jordan's lnadnrship, both on and off' the court. With Jordan's rntirement. O'Neal lrncornes the most dominant player in the league -despite tho l'llcl that his free th row shooting rnrnains horr11ndous. t\nyone who waldwd tlw Western Conference Finals saw that Shaq was a man among boys. averaging about 30 points and l 5 rebounds pnr game. Yet it wasn't enough to propel the Lakers past the Utah .Jazz. Every other Laker choked and the team has been revamped beginning with the expulsion of' Nick Van Exel to the Denver Nuggets. II' Shaq turns in a similar performance. the rest of the l.akers will just need to show up to dominate most games. 
While Shaq may be the most domi­nant player. the most fundamentally sound is Tim Duncan. Only in his second season, Duncan comes off a season in which he earned First Team All-NBA honors as a rookie. He can only get better. Duncan got bet­ter as the season went on and could soon surpass Shaq as the most domi­nant player in the league. The scary thought isn 'l that he is also on the same team with David Robinson, but that the San Antonio Spurs have !'ailed to advance in the playoffs with these two on tho same team. 
A couple of years ago, Grant llill was universally recognized as Jordan's heir apparent and the Pistons were on tlrn rise in the Eastern Conference. What hap­pened'? llis best teammate, Allan Ilouston, signed with the Now York Knicks. This, followed by a bunch of nonsensical movos -including trad­ing for Jnrry Stackhouse and signing Brian Williams lo a multi-year con­tract -made the Pistons much worsf) and llill's job exponentially morn difficult. However, Detroit is on the rise. The imminent signing of Loy Vaught will help as will the depar­ture of Stackhouse. As Detroit becomes more competitive, it will become evident that Hill embodies Jordan's charisma more than any other player in the NRA today. His 
moves and personality are reminis­cent of Jordan, but only time will tell if he is up to the rest of the equation. 
Kobe Bryant is the most important player on the Lakers. Yes, Shaq is more valuable and more dominant, but the question yf whether the Lakers will ever reach the NBA Finals lies on Bryant's young shoul­ders. With Van Exel's departure. Bryant is the Lakers' go-to-guy when Shaq is triple-and quadruple­teamed. Ile will be expected to take over games with or without Shaq and has proven that he has the courage to do so. The experience, however, is different. As good as he is, Bryant still harbors memories of the three straight last-minute air-balls that eliminated the Lakers from the 1997 Western Conference Championships and his being a non-factor in that same competition last year. Regardless, he is now the most excit­ing player in the game, and that is not a good thing for the Lakers: Bryant can often be his worst enemy, trying l'or the spectacular and shak­ing off the prudent move. If he could grow up and learn teamwork, like Jordan eventually did with the Bulls, he would be the clearest heir to the throne. 
Jayson Williams? Yes, Jayson Williams. Watch out for the New Jersey Nets. If not this year or the next, the Nets will be in the NBA finals soon. With Williams. Keith Van Horn, Kerry Kittles, Sam Cassell, and Kendall Gill, the Nets have a tal­ented, young nucleus. Williams, appropriately enough, is their center. Talented, outspoken, hungry, and controversial -he openly criticized Patrick Ewing, repeatedly, for his handling of the lockout -he is more a combination of Karl Malone and Dennis Rodman than an embodiment of Jordan. However, he plays with the most emotion of any active player and it is this dedication to win -this compulsion -that links him to Jordan. His team will soon replace the Bulls as the dominant team in the Eastern Conference. 
As good as the Nets are. they will not make the NBA Finals this year. Thn Indiana Pacers pushed Jordan to seven games last year -something no Western C()nference team had done since his return from retire­ment -and should represent the conference this year. They have experience, talent, a strong bench, and a great coach in Bird. In the West, the Lakers and the Houston Rockets will fight it out to get to the Finals. How's this for a frontcourt? Scottie Pippen, Hakeem Olajuwon, and Charles Barkley. flouston, the rest of' the league has a problem. If that talent can gel -and it will bn tough given the egos ol' Pippen and Barkley -then the Rockets should ov1irtake the underachieving Lakors before losing to the Pacers in the Finals. 
If my predictions for the NBA lie somewhere between the Yankees­Padres World Series I correctly pre­dicted and the Vikings-Chiefs Super Bowl I not-so-correctly predicted, it should be an exciting season. Yes, NBA players are greedy. Yes, NBA owners are even more greedy. Nevertheless, the fact remains that the game will be exciting, as new players take the stage and different teams have a chance to shine -evnn in a shortened season without the man who is arguably the greatest player ever to step on the court. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. 


-----~­page 26 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, January 20, 1999 
¦ MEN'S SWIMMING ANO DIVING 

Zumbach paces Irish in fast lane with hard work 
By WES RICHARDSON Sport, \'v'rircr 
Double event winner. University record holder. High point scorer. 
These phrases are often associated with senior Scott Zumbach. a ~-~-~~ two-time MVP on the men's swim team who is well on his way to his third such 
1 title. 
T h e Zumbach 
impressive statistics go on for the Katonah. N.Y., native: two current team records, 39 wins to date in dual meet events and eight of the University's top 10 times in the 400 indi­vidual medley. including two instances in which he tied one of his own times. Ho also swam butterfly on Notre Dame's fastest 400 medley relay. 
"He is probably one of the most rE>spected swimmers we have. He's on that much of a pedestal," teammate Mike Doyle said. 
Zumbach's four-year colle­giate success is motivated by a conviction that he can always swim faster. 
"I don't feel like I've reached my potential," he said. "My attitude is that I can definitely go faster, so I always keep working hard." 
The most recent addition to the Scott Zumbach lile was his performance Friday against Michigan State. Zumbach placed first in both the 200 While he individual medley and the 200 says he was butterfly. not intimidat­

In December, Zumbach ed by the for­helped his team upset eighth­midable com­ranked Florida State to win petition, he the Notre Dame Invitational. admits that he He was victorious in both indi­responds to vidual medleys and placed faster oppo­second in the 200 butterfly. nents with His 92 points was the team's faster perfor­highest individual tally. mances. 
Zumbach attributes his suc­"l usually cess in part to this season's swim fast with new weight program that good com peti­emphasizes machines over tion because I free weights. enjoy stepping 
"I wanted to see where I up and racing was in the season," Zumbach them," he said about his Invitational said. performance. "This was a With such chance to see how we're an impressive training at this point, and to record, see what to do from here to Zumbach get ready for Big East often takes an [Championships]." informal lead­
Places and team records ership role on Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information were not Zumbach's primary the team. He Despite holding invididual school records in the 200-yard butterily and the 400 individual concern at the lnvilational. is also known 
medley, Scott Zumbach still feels he has a great deal to accomplish as a swimmer. 
Instead, he tends to follow for his capaci­
can say, 'In order to win this consideration time in that 
coach Tim Welsh's advice that ty to handle pressure situa­meet, we have to win the 200 event at February's Big East racing well against the clock tions. 
fly.' You can put all that pres­Championships. Doing thiswill produce w.ins and "fle's kind of like a silent 
sure on Scott and he'11 always would make him only the records. leader with the way he per­deal with it and win." third person in Irish men's "I wasn't paying attention to forms in practices and meets. 
One of the few achievements swimming history to achieve 
that [team records) at all. I When he's asked to step it up, Zumbach lacks is an NCAA such a standard. 
was focusing on what I need he always does," remarked 
Championships qualifying "I know it's going to be 
to do, which is swim fast. I go captain Chris Fugate. 
time. Given that breaking his tough to win an event,"into a race trying to better my "Tim always says there's an own record in the 400 individ­Zumbach said of Big East time. If I break a record, I instance in every meet where 
ual medley has become the Championships. "Hopefully,
break a record," Zumbach each team has a chance to norm, there is a high proba­I'll look to better my times 
said. win it," Doyle explained. "You bility that he will capture a and place as high as I can." 
Save up to 75% on Mac & Windows Software! 
Notre Dame Students and Faculty receive up to 75% off retail prices on all software. FREE delivery on all orders until 1/29/99! ADW 1-800-333-8571 

THE 


is accepting applications for: 
1999-2000 
Editor-in-Chief 
Any undergraduate or graduate student at the University of Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College is encouraged to apply. The editor-in-chief is entirely responsible for the operation ofThe Observer. Applicants should have a strong interest in journalism and pos­sess solid management, public relations, and communications skills. Previous newspaper experience and a background in writing and editing, while helpful, are not required. 
Applicants should submit a resume andfive-page statement to }leather Cocks by 5 p. m. Monday, January 25. For additional information about the position or application process, contact Heather Cocks at 631-4542, or stop by the office downstairs in South Dining Hall. 

Wednesday, January 20, 1999 The Observer• TODAY page 27 
-·-------------------------------------------------------------~-=---­
LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD OF ND DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 

-fHE P€8Af"E" CONT11Jvc5 AS -ro WHEfHtR NrdP,E MME 
t,ltU JOIN 1HE Btt:i '(t"N IN 1He YEAlt Z002 · · · 

FOXTROT 
YES. THAi AND 
THE DELUXE GoLF ToWEL SET. 
DILBERT 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 35 Mountain in Crete 
1 Reprimand, with 36 Slumber rumble "out" 38 William Howard 
5 Capital on the Taft's alma 
Willamette River 
mater 10 Full mark 39 World Series? 14Inter~ 43 Popular 15 Three-time A.L restaurant chain, 
batting champ briefly 44 Tear
18 Relax 45 D.C. summer
11 TV series? 
clock setting 20 Made hot? 
46 Spoonful, say21 Intertwined 
49 Virgin Islands, 22 City half an hour e.g.: Abbr. north of Des 
50 -Plaines, Ill. Moines 
51 Mideast hot spot 25 Mentally twisted 
53 Prescription info 
28 Facial 55 Widespread movement 
58 City ESE of 29 Off the job Rome 31 Football squad 62 Mini-series? 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

A ,A1 f:R 'iINq l,,J !TH THE 614 itf'I COULi> M€A/J 
A LOSS Of 
E 
I 8 
e 

DON'T WORR''I' ABOUT 
f-'\'< M0Nt'<. ROXtE !N~l'5iE.O THA.T WE SIGN PR£.N\JPTtA.L 
fo01 BAL.t.. 


PA1GE, CAN Yoo GAABMY 
WAU.EToFF THE CoUNi£R? 
I N£EO MY 
CRED1T CARD E'(Ptli:AnoN 

AS51"""'1ENTS... LAST SllMMER 
lems are likely lo interfere with your
' 
NUMBER. 
I 


The Observer 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer 
is a vital source of information on people and 
events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
41 Detective Wolfe Buchanan 42 Against 24 Vegas 47 Pitcher equipment Hershiser 26 Shrinking 48 Disney, to ABC 52 Gulf emirate 28 Seasonal song 54 Set of values 30 Appear ss "Thank Heaven 
suddenly for Little Girls" 32 Like many barns musical 
Make checks payable to: and mail to:  The Observer P.O. BoxQ Notre Dame, IN 46556  
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year  
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester  
Name  

Address _____________________ City ________State ____Zip______ 
-
1N Ofl-lElt NtWS~ 1J'F 
NCTRE' MME' Ar>/11fJl5(RA1i<W 
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 20, 1999

HAS APPR<Wf'l.) A ZS--% 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS

RAISE 1N Tl/lffON foR TUE 
DAY: Lorenzo Lamas, David Lynch, 


zoo/ S<}IOot YEAR ... 
George Burn5, Federico Fellini, Patri­cia Neal, Slim Whitman 
llappy Birthday: Your outgoing nature will attract exciting connec· tion.s. You will be open and receptive to n,•w ideJs. Expand your circle of friends and sign up for seminars th<1t interest you. Everything you learn will come in handy laler on. You've got whal it takes fa be a leader, so don't shy away if the opportunity arises. lrus will turn into an exciting year for you ii you just get out and do your own thing. Your numbers: 4, 17, 
33, 35, 41, 4S ARIES !March 21-April 19): Busi· ness opportunities will be plentiful, 

BILL AMEND 
IT'S 

'iou l(IWW, FoR I'M PRETTY 
bul you must be sure that you don't 
24oSO· 

A GIRI. WHO SuRE I SAW 
allow other.. to pu_~h you into putting 
up all the cash. Don't lend money or possessions to others. 000 
toS.t-

CAN'T REM™Bf:li! 'lltES! "R>Wa.S 
2'2~3­

H'-LF HER foR $1.1s LESS 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20):

OIOO'f. HoMEWORk AT lliE MALL 
Don't overreact. Your emotional prob­
1 . 
professional efficiency. Take one thing at a lime and don't be too quick to enter into joint financial ventures. 
0~/02. 
0000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Try to be honest in your description con· ceming recent happenings. You could easily be blamed for something you didn't do. Social events will lead to lasting romantic connections. 00 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your sensitive nature will be appreciated SCOTT ADAMS 
by fnends who need help. Don't take on too much, or exhaustion and minor health problems will occur. Changes in your home are apparent.


00000 
LEO (July 2.3-Aug. 22); Fitness and sports will make you foeel better and lead to good results. You will be able to finish creative projects that you left 
Dy)lamie Interviewing Workshop -The single most -important partof the employment process is the inter­view. Thisworkshop will cover types of questions typi­
tjly i:ie"ed, behavioral interviewing techniques, verbal a11d non-verbal behaviors, and interviewing do's and don'ts: The Dynamic Interviewing workshop wlll be heldtoday in DeBartolo Hall, Room 116 from 3-4 p.m. 
f.. The 1999 Summer Internship Job Jair will be spon• 


-
,•sored by Career & Placement Services tomorrow from 
· l.to 4t30 p.m. in the Sports Heritagti Hall on the sec­ond]evel of the Joyce Center. Those interested should hring their resume. 
The Center for Social Concerns will bo having inror• mational sessions for the Washigton Seminar (7 p.m.) . and Appalachia Seminar (7:30 p.m.)1today at the CSC. 
,....-.:.•., 
Wanted: Reporters and photographers. 
-· 

56Peut--­60 Cut off 
Join The Observer

(maybe, in &1--extra France) cost 
57 Fancy wheels 82 Cut (off) 
83Takehome59 Macbeth's 
staff. 

burial 84 Gridiron gains: place Abbr. 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420·5656 (951? per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
.... 
on the back burner. Rdation.ships are 
stabilizing. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sepl. 22): Your ability to hi, responsible and practical will hi, apprccialed by someon<' spe• cial.. Relationships can develop if you arc int,,rest~d in the advances being made by •n admuw 000 
LIBRA {Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Co­workers may not be looking oul for your best interests. Be aware that someone you work with is trying to take the credit for your hard work. Don't he taken for granted or taken advantage of. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21), Don"l take drastic measures if you aren't happy with the actions of your per· sonal parhier. Do a liltll' soul-search• ing and decipher if you may be partly to blame for the dishannony at home. 
00000 
SAGITfARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): 
Job changes look promising. You will experience delays while driving. Check into any financial ventures thal interest you. Lei your mate know your true feelings. 00 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22·Jan. 19): Your attitude is changing rapidly, and you have probably taken on way too much. Try to enlist the help of those you trusl in order to cornplet£' the demands you face 0000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 16): You will be compNitive at work. Be care­ful not to step on the wrong person's toes. Opportunities for romance will surface. Be careful or minor accidents may occur. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19·March 20); Financial deception is evident. You may misplace money or jewelry if )'OU aren't extremely careful. You shnuld sign legal documents that ne,,d to be updalnl. 000 



¦ Senior Scott ¦ Amidst rumors of Zumbach leads men's his retirement, Dennis swim team with 'faster Rodman denies he is and faster' attitude. leaving basketball. 
PORTS 
p.26 p.21 
O 
THE 

page 28 Wednesday, January 20, 1999
BSERVER 
¦ MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Irish rebound early to earn 59-56 win over Seton Hall 
Hickey provides team with 
Game commemorates 25th the spark to start homes­anniversary ofNotre Dame tand on right track upset over UCLA 
By BILL HART ByJOEYCAVATO 
As.~i.,canr Sports Editor Assocare Sports Editor 
lleading into the Joyce Center last night, few During a timeout early in the first half' of 
Notre Dame fans would need to be reminded last night's basketball game, with the visiting that today marked a critical date in sports his­Seton Hall Pirates up 8-0, the public address tory. Twenty-live years ago, the Irish shocked announcer reminded everyone about the sig­the basketball world hy defeating UCL'\ 71-70 nificance of the date Jan 19. and ending a 88-game Bruin winning streak, On that day in 1974, Notre Dame ended still the longest in NCAA history. UCLA's NCAA record winning streak at 88 
But perhaps no one needed to be reminded games. Fans in the Joyce Center got to relive more than the Notre Dame men's basketball the one of the proudest moments in Notre team. at the start of a critical homestand with­Dame athletics with a re-broadcast of Dwight out one of thoir offensive stars. Following two Clay's historic shot that put the Irish ahead in Big East losses, the Irish needed some sort of the final seconds. They're won't be any re­spark to turn the season around. broadcast of Harold Swanagan's adventures 
So perhaps it doesn't come as a surprise that at the free throw line in the final seconds of Notre Dame was able to shake off their cob­the 56-53 win over Seton Hall last night, but webs and defeat an up-and-coming Seton Hall the win gave the Irish exactly what they team 59-56. using a combination of zone needed. defense and a balanced scoring effort. It provided the halt to a two-game losing 
"We needed this," senior center Phil Hickey streak. It provided relief, joy and the winning said about the win. "Obviously since we've been feeling again. struggling a little bit. I knew that I had to show "This was a big game for us," Antoni some senior leadership and step up and Wyche said. "It was a game we needed to encourage other guys to step up too, and that's win. We wanted to come out and have a real what they did." break-out performance and we didn't do 
At the start of the game, however, some fans that. But we were still able to battle back and may have had visions of Villanova in their head. get this win, so it's special to us." The Pirates rode out to an 8-0 lead early on in With Troy Murphy and his 18 points and the game, in an offensive style similar to that nine rebounds a game sporting a suit and used by the Wildcats in their early 18-0 mini­looking more prepared for a GQ cover shoot rout of the Irish. But in this case, the team kept than a basketball game, head coach John 
their calm. MacLeod needed someone, anyone, to spark 
"We didn't get down on ourselves," Hickey his squad who had lost their last two games said. "We stayed in there and made some plays. by a total of 58 points. We knew that if we played good defense and With only eight scholarship players suited kept it close that our shots would start falling up and in the cupboard for MacLeod's use, eventually." he was trying to hake a cake with a limited 
Eventually the shots did start falling, turning amount of ingredients. into a 6-0 run that pulled them back into the Just like a good chef, Macleod got creative game. The lead changed eight times in the first with his line-up. Three players made their half, but the Pirates used a 7 -0 run to take a first ever career starts: Harold Swanagan, 27 -23 lead at halftime. Jimmy Dillon and even walk-on Skylard 
In the second half, Seton Hall started off by Owens.
The Observer/Jeff Hsu 

Averaging just eight points per game, senior Phil Hickey (55) gave the Irish the ----------------­see GAME/ page 20 offensive leadership they needed last night, scoring 16 points. see STREAK/ page 19 



.. Irish take momentum to Seton Hall 
Observer Staff Report half, but were unable to hang on come in recent weeks to a as Riley scored 15 points in the stronger defensive game that has 
There comes a point in every second to break the game open. at times been slow to start. Once gr_eat team's season where With a Seton Hall team (2-6, 5-the Irish fell into a strong defen­everything falls into place and 11) fighting to keep out of the sive zone in the second half everyone expects the team to cellar facing them tonight, it against Pittsburgh, they immedi­win. No matter what the set­does not seem like Notre Dame ately shut down center Nickcia backs, everyone knows a team in will soon find out what it takes to Morris and company. Despite the middle of a hot streak cannot knock them off their game. scoring 14 points in the first half, lose. You even manage to come Returning only one starter she was held to just six in the out leading when your top scorer from last year's team, the Pirates second. -with 19.3 points per game in are led by Arminda Moreno, a On the other side of the court, the Big East -only plays in the first-year player who is the only a pair of seniors have done most first four minutes of a game. player to start all 16 games for of the damage in the form of 
Such have been the Irish (5-2, Seton Hall. Fresh off of a team­Sheila McMillen and Danielle 13-2) in recent games, winners leading 16-point game against Green. McMillen, who scored 21 of their last four games and turn­Syracuse. the forward leads her points in the Pittsburgh contest, ing a 1-2 record in the confer­squad with 13.3 points per game. is averaging 15.4 a game, putting 
ence at year's end into their cur­But Moreno provides little her behind only Green (16.6) and rent third-place standing. Notre spark to a lackluster Pirate Riley. Dame picked up that fourth win squad that has constantly been The Pirates have lost five­last Saturday at Pittsburgh even out-scored, out-shot and out­straight games to the Irish, dat­after. sophomore Ruth Riley sat rebounded. In last Saturday's ing back to 1996. Last season, out after four minutes in the first loss against Syracuse, Moreno Seton Hall was pummeled 91 <~5 half due to foul trouble. The and company shot just ~6.9 per­at the .Joyce Center in Notre inside advantage gave the cent from the floor. Dame's biggest win of the sea­Panthers a close game at the Notre Dame's momentum has son. 
at Seton Hall at Northern Michigan Tonight, 7:30 p.m. Friday, 7 p.m. 
SPORTS 

~ • Women's Swimming at Michigan 
-
ATA 
Men's Swimming Jan. 30, 4 p.m . 

vs. Rutgers at Western Ontario
. 
Saturday, 11 p.m . 
Saturday
GLANCE 








