Pitching praises 
Tune in ••• 


Wednesday 
¦ See coverage ofAaron Heilman's third Big East
¦ Carch rhe review of Branford Marsalis' 
·conference pitching award. 
APRIL 14,
pcrformaru:e ac Stepan. 
Scene• 14-15 
Sports• 26 
1999 
THE 





The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 122 WWW. ND.EDU/-OBSERVER 
Gingrich: 'U.S. has no choice except to lead' 
By Al)JNE MARIE MATTINGLY 
/\."suci.uc Nt•\v.\ Editor 
llw UnilPrl Stall's is Urn most pownr­1·u1 r111111try in tlw world and must IPad tlw !"l!Sl of world into t!w futun~. said NPwt t;i11grid1, l'ornwr speaker of tlw l1.S. 1lousn of' l!t•prt\SPntativ<\S, in a IPc­tun• Tt1Psday. 
Ill' f'orns1•d particularly on tho U.S. invulv1·11H·11t in Kosovo to illuslrate his point. 
"I hnli('VI' thP ll.S. has 110 choicn nx•·••pt lo !Pad," lw said. "Tlwrn is no otlwr rountry a bin to lead ... If we l'ail Lo !Paci. tl11• wmld will IJP a mess in six months." 
(;ingrirh said that. to nns11n1 that llw l 1.S. mainli1ins its authority. thl' country has no choic<' hut lo onsun' a dPcisiv(i vii:lory in Lill' cutTPIII Kosovo ronflict. 
"Th(• who!(• world is watching us throw a tP!llpPr tantrum. \Vn can't jusl drop sonw bombs, an:cpt some paper solution. walk out of thPni and loavP [Slohodanl :V1ilos(ivic lprnsidPnt of Yugoslavia! the victor." he said. "Onc11 tlw U.S. mak1!s an irrnvocabln decision, wn havn lo win." 
Ile nmphasiz(\cl that lhc failure to win would cause Urn other leaders of nations to take thlJ UnillJd Stallls loss SPriously as a major power. 
"My biggest fear is that Ni\TO will accnpt some phony agreement. the prnsidcnt will give some phony speech about how we won, the wholP world will know that's a joke and tlrn world will be a more dangerous place," he said. 
Cingrirh said that the planning behind 
U.S. approach should consist ol' a hicr­ard1ical !'our-part plan. namely vision, strategins. projects and tactics. Each of those must be d(welopPd, said Gingrich. Lo successl'ully undNLakc lnadnrship. 
"What's your vision? Wlrnrn do you want to go?" Im asknd, citing EiS(!nhower·s World War II vision of landing in Germany, infiltrating the rnunlry and stopping tlrn war. "Tim sec­ond part is stratcgins. !low are you going to make your visions rna1'1 " 
Gingrich said thal the dovolopmcnt of a vision for Kosovo is the responsibility 
see GINGRICH/ page 4 


A NEW Tl::.RM, THE SAME QUESTIONS 
f 
This is the third ofa lhree-parl series examining the role ofstudent government at Notre Dame. 

Cooperation proves vital to success 
By FINN PRESSLY Assisiam N,·w, l'dimr 
As llwy SPUln into a year of leading the Notre Dame urHlPrgrnduatc population. student body 1>rcsidP11l Micah Murphy and vicn president Mil'ha,d Palumbo will work to efToctivnly relay stud1·11t rnncPrns to tlw UnivPrsity administration. 
Past studPnt IParlPrs have had mixed success impl1im(•11ti11g tlwir ag1rndas, and some say it s1•Pms that st11d1rnt opinion on controv('1·sial issues is disrq.~ardnd. But nxpnricnced nwrnbnrs of the inrnming stuclPnt leadnship statP optimism about 1111• r11opnration and dialogun with Nolrn Dame's dPdsion makPrs. 
"My takP on it is ii' you approach Urn adminis­tration tlH' right way and prnstml tlwm with full dPtails and full information. they'rn willing to lis­t1m," said Matt Mamak. chief of staff for Murphy and l'alumho. "Not rwcPssarily to act on it, but d(•finitPly willing to talk." 
IIP also said that tlrn negative perc(iption of the administration is oflnn unf'oundC'd. 
"I would liavo to say that I think that tho admin­istration is mor<' approachablP than peopl(~ think,'" h1\ said. "I've never had an administrator unwilling lo talk to nui about s01rnithing." 
As .luclicial Council pnisident, Kelly Folks has workl'<I 1•xtl'll'•iiVPly with llflsidnncn Life orlicials. 
The Observer/Peter Richardson 
"Tlwv'v" hl'<'n vnry easy to work with, vury open Among the responsibilities of student government, student mindnd and Vl'ry nic<'ptive," said Folks. "They'rn leaders deal hand-in-hand with administrators, such as assis­vPry rnaso11ablc to il<'ar the students' side of the tant vice president of Residence Life Bill Kirk (left). 
story." 
ends," she said. 

Hh1\a Ct'rtkPn, 1\xtPrnal relations chair for Murphy 
Palumbo also recognized that administrators are
aml Palumbo, Pxprt'SS('d similar sentiments. 
often very receptive to students· ideas.
"I think llwrn's a lot of avmHws opnn at this point, 
"From past coopf'fation with Patty O'Hara lvice 
with CI.C !Campus l.ifo Councill and whatnot. I think president of student affairs! we learned we definitelythat both siclns just have to be op<>n and rnsponsive havn outlets. we have avenues, we must utilize them,"wilh nach other," said (,c)rtken. 
Palumbo said. "I think the administration takes what 
Cnrtkon indicatod Uw CLC as an effective forum of we say and listen to it. They don't always l'ollow up." 
discussion. 
One recent example is O'Hara's rejection of the pro­
"I think that they had a pretty good dialogue, not 
posal by both the CLC and the Graduate Studentonly with administrators, but with staff and faculty 
Union to invite the Board of Fellows to an open forum
nnd rnctors," she said. 
regarding the non-discrimination clause.
OvNall, CNtken said that her experifmces mirror 
"I do not believe that anything further can be 
those of Mamak's. 
accomplished by hosting the typi> of forum contem­
"I've never had any negative experinnce. I've talked to administrators. and it's be('ll respectful on both 
see GOV'T / page 6 

DART syste01 malfunctions, causes delays 
By KA TE STEER 
News Writer 
The DART [Direct Access Registration by Tnlophonc) system crashocl Tuesday, causing inconvenience and frustration for students, administrators and operators. 
Just before 3:30 p.m., accnss t.o DART by tnlll­phone failed, resulting in a busy signal or con­tinuous ringing for registering students. Soon aftllr; at approximately 3:50 p.m., tlrn snven computer terminals in Grace IIall also failed. 
Those affected were instructed to go to Grace Hall, where employees of' the registrar's office would help the students. 
"We had a problem with the system. About 50 to 60 students were atfoctod," said Harold Pace, University registrar. "Apparently the router went down in Grace Hall." 
Students with DABT times between 3:30 to 
3:45 p.m. were the first to encounter the prob­lems. All those who made their way to the regis• trar's office waited as they wen• told they would receive further instruction. 
"We kept students in line for about 20 minut0s while OIT lOffice of Information Technology! worked on the problem." PCtco said. 
The outside phone lines into DART WMt, restored by approximately 3:55 p.m., allowing thoM attempting to DAHT by telephone accnss to the svstem. Moanwhile, thosll students whost} time slots had expired were still waiting in the Office of the Registrar to be placed in classes. 
"I was thoroughly annoyed when I had to hike to Grace Hall and then wait around for anothnr 45 minutes, when other people had the conve­nience of their own phones," s1iid Sarah Ruder. a sophomore management major. "People wer1:1 really upset, but really, get a grip!" 
"There has to be a more e01cient wny of regis­tering for classes. Tho Univt}rsity spont so much money on ResNet, why not use it?" said Mary Beth Patterson, a science preprofessional major 
see DART/ page 7 

page 2 The Observer• INSIDE Wednesday, April 14, 1999 

• 

The garbageman 

My little brother is 2 years old and he loves cheesc>burgim,, even though he can't pro­nounce tho word. lle lives for trips to \-lcDonald's and when I'm home, I indulge him. 
He's too cute to resist. 
On one of our most recent trips, we pulled into the parking lot during the height of the lunch rush. The parking lot was a mob scene and the drive-through was out of the question. 
As I circled the lot, praying for a spot to open up, my brother started shouting from his carseat and pointing at a garbage truck parked near the entrance. "Garbageman! Garbageman!" he yelled. 
\!\'hen we got inside, 1put him down on the ground next to me to wait out the twisting lino. As 2-year-olds do, especially in crowds, he rushed off and made a bee.line for a man in an orange vest standing at !.he counter. Before I could reach my brother, he was tugging on the orange vest. 
"You the garbageman?" he asked the genile­man. 
I was mortified. I was certain that this man would explode in anger and I snatched my brother up as quickly as possible, planning my escape. To my amazement, the orange-vested man burst out laughing. 
"Yes, I'm the garbageman," he replied, pat­ting my brother on the head and smiling at me. 
I'm sure that I stared at him in utter bewil­derment, but his expression calmed me. He was genuinely interested in my brother and soon we struck up a conversation. It was one of those crazv moments that I immediately knew I would want to remember forever.· 
Most people, myself included, avoid talking to the garbageman in the McDonald's line because we hide behind the our differences. What on earth could I discuss with a sanitation worker? What do we have in common? 
The answer is very simple for my brother: He likes trucks and the man in the orange vest drives a very big truck -surely they should be friends. 
My brother respects this man's position in life and the role he plays in society, I think a lot of us could learn from this 2-year-old. 
As I was leaving Stepan Center after Tuesday's Newt Gingrich lecture, I overheard another student comment, "I can't wait to see The Observer tomorrow, I'm sure they'll [screw] this up somehow." 
My immediate reaction was indignation and my friends heard a passionate. dialogue about how hard the entire Observer staff works every day of the week for that ungrateful stu­dent and his friends. 
As the night progressed. however, my indig­nation turned to sorrow. Not sorrow because people don't appreciate our work here, but sorrow that this college student, who was once a 2-year-old, has forgotten the innocence with which he once looked at the world. Sorrow that he can't see the value in the garbageman anymore, sorrow that he probably doesn't value his student government leaders, his administration, his athletic teams and his coaches. 
More than all this, however, I'm sorry that this particular student ,vill never share a cheeseburger with my brother at McDonald's during a lunch-time rush. I'm sure my favorite 2-year-old could teach that 20-something a lot about life. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

News Scene 
Christine Kra1y Emmett Mallov Mike Rom,rnchek Jen Zacorski Kyle Andrews Graphics Sports Scott I-lardy Anrhony Rianco Lab Tech Viewpoint Pete Richardson Mary l\fargarer Nussbaum Colleen Gaughen 
The Ob.server (USPS 599 2-4rJorJJ i, ,iubli,hcd Munde1y through Friday except during exam .and va(.;;ition p...:riod~. Thr.: Ob!t.crvLr os .l member ._1f the A~s<lc1!1tt:d PreS"~. AU rep-rrnluc..tio11 ughr~ are reserved. 


utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

University president discourages students from 'Naked Mile' 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. 

The last day uf winter classes can only mt>an one thing in Ann Arbor ­hundreds of students shedding their inhibitions and their clol.hes for a liber­ating run down South University Avenue. 
With the end of winter term and I.he annual Naked Mile one week away, university president Lee Bollinger said he plans to inform students that he does not condone the year-end tradi­tion. "He's sending a letter tu all seniors. expressing his concerns and discouraging their partir,ipa1.ion," uni­versity spokesperson Julie Peterson said. "We don't want our students to get hurt." 
Drafts of the lotter were not available Monday, but Peterson said she expects Bollinger to have a final copy Tuesday and _the letter to he sent later this week, 
The Naked Mile began as a small eel­

The size. of crowds often raises con­cerns about the rnnners' safety. 
Bollinger's efforts were met with praise by Ann Arbor Mayor Ingrid Sheldon. "I thank him very much for taking a leadership role in this," Sheldon said. 
Running in the Naked Mile rnuld also have legal ramifications. If convicted of violating stal11 indecent exposure laws, students could face up to a year of jail time, in addition to having to register as a lifetime sex offender. 
Peterson said she hopes to work closely with the media this year to ensure that coverage does not create further safoty issues. 
"I thought the media really got out of hand last year," Peterson said. "We did not think that was helpful." 
Sheldon said the Naked Mile brings much more trouble than good to Ann Arbor. 
"This is not an event that is perceived by the gPneral public as cute," Sheldon said. "This event brings out some of the worst creatures in sou'theast Michigan." 
Some students who are planning on joining the swarm of runners this year said Bollinger's letter will not affect their decision to participate. 

¦ ilt\RTMOUTH COLLEGE Free Tibet group receives offensive mail 
HANOVER, N.H. 

Another case of an anonymous offensive mailing was dis­covered Monday afternoon in the Hinman Box of the Students for a Free Tibet organization. The anti-Buddhist pamphlet was designed in the same, cartoon strip-style as the other mailings sent earlier this term and depicted a phil­anthropic Buddhist tyc9on sent to hell for not believing in Jesus, Notable campus figures in the Jewish and gay com­munity as well as three Tucker Foundation administrators received similar hate mailings considered offensive to mem­bers of those groups two weeks ago. While SFT Treasurer Casey Noga found the anti-Buddhist pamphlet ~onday, he told The Dartmouth the group's Hinman Box had not been checked since last year, meaning this pamphlet could have been sent at the same time as the others. The pamphlet states that "all who reject God's love gift will burn forever in the lake of fire ... Buddha didn't die for your sins." 
¦ M!CHlGAh! STAJE Ui\HVEflSiPf Students protest basketball riots 
EAST LANSING, Mich. 

When Surtida Bhandari saw the March 27-28 Michigan State University riot on television, she wanted to pack her bags and go home to Tanzania. Bhandari, a student affairs graduate student, wondered what would make people become so destructive. Rather than leaving MSU, she decid­ed to do something about it and joined the peaceful demon­stration from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m. Monday in front of the Administration Building. "By physically moving from where I live and work to come out here so anybody who walks by, even if they don't know me, will realize that this does matter to me, I wanted to show I'm not about the riots," she said. About 300 participated in the event throughout the day. said Mark Holbert, an international relations senior who orga­nized the event. Students Pissed About Rioting This Year sold T-si}irts to raise money to help repair East Lansing. Green ribbons were also sold to raise money. 
¦ !NO!ANI\ !JN!VERSiiY Students discover Hitler bust 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 
Monday afternoon, two Indiana University students dis­covered a bust of Adolf Hitler on the steps of the Helene G. Simon Hillel Center, 730 E. Third St. The incident comes at the beginning of Holocaust Remembrance Week. Sophomore Amy Friedman said she and another student returned for lunch to find a Marsh bag and a letter on the steps of the Hillel Center. "The note said' 'Happy Holocaust Remembrance Day from the man who made it all possi­ble,"' Friedman said. Inside the Marsh bag was a bust of Adolf Hitler, which was made from plaster. The Hillel Center staff called the IU Police Department. At tho time, police said there had been other anti-Semitic literature left in the area around Sixth Street. Priedman said she was concerned about the bust and literature appearing this week. "Tomorrow is Yorn Hashoah, which is the Jewish remembrance of the Holocaust," Priedman said. 
¦ PENN STl\T£ 
Smithsonian uses ID cards in exhibit 
STATE COLLEGE, Penn. 
The ID cards Penn State students toss in their back­packs. on the floor or put in their back pockets will become part of thi. Permanent Research Collection on Information Technology at the Smithsonian's National Museum of American History. Penn State and Pioneer Systems Inc. 's Penh State Campus, Card System were nominated for a Computerworld Smithsonian Award. The 1999 Information Technology Innovation Collection, part of the permanent research collection, was formally presented Monday to the Smithsonian. The student ID cards used in the card system employ telephone calling options, ATM service, entry to dorm buildings and laun­dry services as well as oLh!lr options, according to a press release. Penn State and Pioneer Systems Inc. were nominated in the finance: insurance and real estate cat­egory. 


5 Day South Bend Forecast Accu\.\'enther®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
H L 

Fairbanks 44 28 Kalamazoo 72 37 Gainesville 83 54 Louisville 69 43 Honolulu 80 67 Macon 77 45 Indianapolis 66 43 New York 67 41 Jasper 79 65 -Oakland 83 50 




Saturday mi 43 31 
Sunday ,-,id "tt 
"'.,,· =~\Ji:li~f11ffe. 


~¥~~~8 i)_ ~ d 
Showers r:-storms Rain F!utries Snow tee Sunny pt. Cloudy Cloud}' Via As.socwtai:i Press Graphicstlet 
Wednesday, April 14, 1999 
New for 1999 

"THE SfIIRT '' $.15.00. 
"Th Sh'rt" f f II' f · b II The Observer/Kevin Dalurn 
e I or n~xt a s oat a ~e8:son is now on sale. Prices have risen to $11 for students and $15 for the general public, but shirt comm1ss1oner Garett Skiba said he is optimistic about upcoming sales. 
page 3 
Organizers hopeful for fall 'Shirt' success 
By CHRISTINE KRALY 
As,isranr News Editor 
i\t any home football game, 
tho student section of tho stadi­
um is a uniform mass of color. 
This year, a wave of moss­
green fans screamed f'or victo­
ry, Next year, "The Shirt" will 
rnturn to the traditional navy. 
and shirt pro_joct commissioner 
Garett Skiba said he is opti­
mis1ic about sales. 
"We'd like to gel more stu­dents to wear the shirts," said Skiba, whose position as shirt commissioner includes picking I.he design and working with both the manufacturnr and tlrn distributcrs, such as tho Hammes Notre Damn Bookstore and the LaFortunc Student Center information 
desk. 
"The Shirt" has become a recent l.radition at Notre Dame, unifying students at home l'oot­lrnll games. There is even a display dn<licatnd to the history or The Shirt project at th<1 Alumni Senior Club, according to general manager Lawrm1cn Briggs. 
Yet, the importance of "The Shirt" lies not only in its unify­ing of the stndents during foot­ball games. but also in its con­tribution to student financial ncod. 
Each ynar student govern­ment aims to make $200,000 from sales of' The Shirt, a goal Skiba said was reached this past year. Proceeds from the sales are split between student government and charity. 
The Shirt project, entering its 10th year this fall, was origi­nally devnlopud to lwlp pay tlrn 
hospital bills f'or a student par­
alyzed in a car wreck. Since 
then, 50 porcnnt of' "The Shirt" 
r1\venuns go toward a charita­
ble causes f'und, said projoct 
director Peggy llnatusko. Any 
revon ucs t hat surpass thi, 
$200,000 goal am added to tlw 
r:haritablc fund. 
. The fund provifks support 
lor studnnl.s who havo sulTurnd 
"catasln!phic accidm~t.s. or ill­
nesses, according lo 
ll11atusko. 
When tlrnrc was inlPrnsl in 
establishing a scholarship in 
the nanrn of .Justin Brumbaugh, 
a student. who dicd last year in 
a computnr clustor. tho 
University tappnd into tlrn fund 
/'or linancial support. 
Skiba said lw is hopol'ul ahout till' popularity of this fall's "The Shirt," particularly bocausH the wturn to the tradi­tional navy bluo should assuage sornn studnnt com­plaints uhout tho '98 shirt. 
. ";\ lot of poople didn't rnally ltkn tho color," said Skiba. "At first I wasn't going to huv it !because of the rnlorl." saiil 
senior Alissa Solrnlnski. "But thfln it grnw on nm." 
"We hopP I.his yPar should bP better, lcspocially sincn we'rn going] back to tlrn traditional navy bl uc ... it shou Id he! p immensely in salns," said Skiba, who said tlrn $200,000 goal is definitely at.tainabln. 
Prices for "Tlrn Shirt" have risen for the fall lo $11 for stu­dents and $15 !'or the general public, mostly clue to a rise in Champion's manufacturing foes, said Skiba. 

~reen-fJhillips llt}enl cAuction 
Tlirusday, 51yri{ 15, 1999 La]'ortune 'Ba{{room 7:30 Ph'M . 
'The 11tc111t1ers ,ftfie 'Breen-1)fzifqps j-{al[ con1munity corcfialTy invite -you to bi.don nzcals 1vitli tfie {Jestfacu[ty :N,)tre 1)a1ne fza.s to o_tfer. Son1e <?.f tfie_facu{ty (~(~Notre 1hnne liave di_Jnatl'lf 1neais_(or you and your_(riencfs to bia on. rfle;1roceeds <?_( the auct1011 ,vilT!JO to the An1.erican 1ha6etes Association ancf the :My J'riends Care 'Bone :lvlal'TO"W 'Tran.~plant :ru.ncl 
To be auctioned off: 

Fr Theodore Hesburgh Prof Michael J Chetcuti Mr William Kirk Fr F William Beauchamp Ms Rebeicca Davidson Fr Tom Doyle Carmen and Lou Nanni Prof. Carolyn Woo Profi Bretz and Schaefer Prr-f Edward F Hunis 
HERE ARE A COUPLE MEALS BEING AUCTIONED OFF: COACH DAVID J. POULIN (8 PEOPLE) Can't make it to Italy before finals? Enjoy a chaotic night of Italian feasting with Head Hockey Coach Poulin and his family The "staff includes a chef second to none who will prepare a supreme meal, a short freckled hostess who w,11 take your coat and beat you at computer games. and twin waitresses to answer your every call Gondola rides will be available upon your request. 
FR. JIM LIES ,45 PEOPLE) Retreat with Fr Jim to a place not so far away . this campus's beloved Zahm Hall EnJOY with him some pre-dinner conversation and "drinks'' before heading off to the finest of local pizzerias . Rocco's there to en1oy fun and frivolity, not to mention salad, garlic bread and PIZZAI It will be unlike any other retreat you've ever been on 1 
To be auctioned off: 
Fr. Timothy Scully Prof. Anre Venter Gail Walton Prof Ramzi Bualuan Or. Jerome Neyrey & Or. Lawerence Cunningham Prof. Patnda O'Hara Prof. Thomas Werge Prof. Richard Taylor Prof Scott Baier 
page 4 

The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 14, l')lJl) 
Gingrich 
continued from page l 
of President Bill Clinton and 
that Hugh Shelton, chairman of 
the Joint Chiefs of Staff, must 
develop the strategy to imple­
ment that vision. 
"It is the duty of the president 
of tho United States to describe 
clearly what our goals are and 
what we are willing to do to 
accomplish them," he said. "Ii 
is the duty of the chairman of 
the Joint Chiefs of Staff to lav 
out la plan to fulfill them]." · 
The third step is to establish u specific project, said Gingrich. who <lcscrihed a pro­ject as "a definable, delegat­ablc achievement." This should be followed by the development of tactics. which are what one docs every day to fulfill the project. he said. 
Once preparation is complet­ed, the process of leading should be carried out using four additional sequential steps, explained Gingrich. who said that these consist of' listen­ing and learning about others' points of view and then helping them by leading. 
"It is your duty to develop appreciative learning. You have to learn what the other person is saying and to appre­ciate !the person's n~asoningl." he explained. 
"In a rational world, if people know you will listen to them. learn from them and help them, they will ask you to lead. Then you say. 'This is my vision, my strategy, my project and my tactics."' 
Part of the current problem in Kosovo, he said, is the result of the failure or U.S. and NATO officials to listen to Milosevic's point of view. 
"Everything which happened 

after the first bombing, I would 
argue, was predictable," he 
said, noting that if officials 
would have been more recep­
tive they would have realized 
that a pAoplA who are still 
upset over land they lost 600 
years ago would not change 
their mode of' action because of 
a few bombs. 

"I think we can break the 
Serbian government, but it 
takes a lut uf power applied 
over a substantial period of 
time." 

Gingrich said that, in terms of 
a general vision for its own 
future, tho U.S. should seek to 

save Socia.I Security and to cut 
taxes. 

"fior you to be allowed to keep some of tho money you earn and to have you invest it ... is good for America," Gingrich said of one plan. which proposes allowing citi­zens to open what he called a 'Social Security Plus' account. 
Presently the federal govern­ment withdraws money from citizens' paychecks under the fiederal Insurance Contribution Act and invests it to earn money for Social Security pay­ments, hut these accounts would allow Americans to invest some of the funds them­selves. 
Gingrich said that this would create a Social Security surplus and save the program, as well as take power away from the federal government and help Americans to learn the value of a good investment. 
"We'd be a healthier country ... with everyone in America knowing that working, saving and investing is the way to a better future," he said. 
Gingrich also proposed that income taxes during peacetime should not exceed 25 percent, and said that if citizens work on Monday and part of Tuesday for the government, they 
should bo able to spend the 
rest of the week working for 
themselves. 
He suggested that the money 
to fund tax cuts could be 
obtained by privatizing many 
government services. 
"The Pentagon ought to be 
reduced to a triangle by elimi­
nating 40 percent of the mid­
level management," he said. 
noting that in 1930 government 
spending accounted for only six 
percent of the Gross National 
Product. 
Gingrich also challenged 
America's young people to do 
their part in making the future 
beUer. 
"Freedom is an inheritance 
from your parents and you 
have a moral obligation to give 
a stronger and better America 
than you inherited [to you chil­
drenl," he said. 
Gingrich holds a ba~:helor's degree from Emory University and master's and doctoral ·degrees from Tulane University. He served as history professor at West Georgia col­lege from 1970 to 1978 and lost two bids for the U.S. Congress before being elected to the House of Reprnsentatives in 1978. 
Gingrich was elected as Speaker of the House in 1995 and became the first Speaker to be re-elected since 1928 when he was again chosen for the position in 1997. 
He was named Time maga­zine's 1995 Man of the Year and Georgia's March of Dimes Citizen of the Year. 
He is the author of five books, including three best sellers entitled "The Contract With America," "To Renew America" and "Lessons Learned the Hard Way." 
His talk, entitled "Living in the Age of Possibilities," was sponsored by the Student Union Board. 
ay, orme:f$peaker of the House of 
•. icb addressed a number of topics while 1estions. Among the issues wet'e the fol­
·, ·..'.-.·'·'''.->\,:::·:,,:\':,::_:::..,,c:''_ ":: '.: ·.. · 
.\itS!\'t~Frj\LFH3ER;.··...... . 
..·· ...·•• :afotbettl)r}io4ntry thm1 it'i<ci.ttrent president.'' 
•"If < d people fail to engage, do not be surprised if evil people do ~erri~lethings." 
•....••· ··•.•· ON: 

>.. ·~rtc~Q~;< • .... ... lc•Atnerls;i.fis and Native Americans 
ii.it} .. · ... ·..... ······.· .as capapl~asAsiru1-Alnel"'icans or whites.·• 
•'T think it's a denial of the love ofthe American system ... There's: nothing in tho Declaration of Independence of the Conslitµtiqn.that allows us.to put poopfo into groups." 
•',XC111 ~~? reach outwith afflrmative help without having to pun­Jsll.MY?O~l 
;: ·•,,:::,•· ,:,::·-,:··/,-:,,;. '•'.: ,.. ,-'-, . 

ON Al\t.ERICAN POtl'JJCS: 
•"It's rµways been ·cynical. This is a. rough and tumble COWJtry. PoHtlcs .in this country is brass knuckles, but it beats being shot in th1(b~khyJheGesJapo.'' . 
•' · · in ~ctivethig citizens rather than active, big bureau­
... ····'.·"</ -,-.,. ,·'.: •.,,... ·::....__ .'". :-,·:: 
ON THE CHINESENUCLEAR WEAPONS ESPIONAGE: 
•"rt iSnofso serious that the Chinese tri!:ld. It is serious that the ClttitQrt a,dmin.istration didn't tell the president ... I don't blam(i the Chines gpying on us: Ihlame us for being stupid and letting 
,• ' ' . 
a~itli~(th1.fon, for exposing Americansto these 
ON CLINTON: 

resident has a very simple principle -he survives." yttYlong path•·.ofhuman history, countries make mis­
0 VO: 
•"We 
have put our marker down, and we had better win, or the world willbe a much more dangerous place.'' 

•''fClinfon]had 
better define victory, and [chair of the Joint Ch.i~fs 9fpt~flJ Hugh Shelton had better deliver it, and that's the only rll,j;i9~~kp0Hcy."

•"You.cannot 
ask· other countries to approve ... If you're to be the decisive country that leads the planet, some days people arc going to be irritated with you." 





page 5 

¦ 
Cow bile helps cure cancer 
I'! IIL/\lll•ll'I IIJ\ 

i\11 i111m1111P-systP111 boosll,r cforivnd from cow bi IP shows prom isl' in early t,..;1 ing against pa11<Tl'ali<' rnrn·,,r. th<' dnadlinst of' all 111nlignanci1,s, Though it is probably 110 1'111'1' !'or most pHtiP11ts. !Ill' drug S!'<'lllS to work al)l)lll as wdl as tlw slandard IJH•dicirw with l'ar fpw1•r sidP Plfods. Th,• 1wxt sWp will Ii!' to try giving thPm togt'flrnr. Dr Clm11g11i.i11 Liu of' I.lie Univ,,rsity or Nnhraska pr1•s,·11l1•d data on pn•li111i11ary human test­ing of' tl11• 111'\V 11wdid1w. ralli•d Virulizin, in l'liilatlt•lphia 011 Tt1Psd.iy al a 11rnnl.i11g of' tltn A111Pric-a11 Association l'or (:a 111:Pr lfospu rrh. About 21),000 1:asr·s ol' pa1H:rcalic cann,r an· diag11os1•cl y1•arly in llw Uniwd Statns. Thn m11.look is grim lwcausP llw disPaSP sprt>ads silP11lly. 111 t)O 1wrr1•n1 of' cases, tlw malig­11a11n., has aln•ady csrn1wd llw gland lwforp il is d!'i('l'l.l'd. 
AOL presses Congress on high­speed cable line connections 
W,\Sll!NCTO~ 

111 a fight ovPr tlir· ways lhat. rons11ml'rs will <'Olllll'l'l to tlw l11l.l'l"tH'l during thn 1wxt !-(Plll'ration. ,\nwri1·a Onlim· wants Congri•ss 
t.u for('<' tlw nation's rablt• tPl1wisio11 compa­llil's lo grant its subsrribPrs t"asi!'l' acct!SS I.O thosP romJlitlliPs' !lPW high-spl't\d data pipPli11Ps. So-callt>d broadband accPss ovc~r calil<' li11Ps, with ronnc'cti1111 spP!'ds dozPns of timPs l'ast1•r that1 today's wl1•plrn1w rnoclPms, pro111is1•s to l'urthPr prop1d tilt! tH'.onomy's rol'kPt ridP alrPady l'uP!Pd by tlw tndrnology i11dL1stry. Frn<'ill!{ cons11rn1•rs from llw J'rus­lraling. sluggish pPrf'ormancP ol' tlw lnlerimt, high-sp<•t•d con1wrtio11s will finally makn possihlf' 1ww comJHllPr applications that indudn TV-quality vidno and lrnttnr uudio on tlw w,~b. 
Japanese court justifies solitary confinement 
TOKYO 

.Japa1H•s1• priso11s l1avP ilw right 1o put inmatPs in solitary ('onlinomnnt for as long as lliPy want. a rnurt ruh•d Ttwsday, dismissing a sllit by a priso11Pr lwld alrnw for 13 y<iars. Tho i\sahikawa Distrif'l Court rulnd that solitary ('(lll!illPlllPllt is "rPasonablP" and "1wcnssarv for kPPping ordl'r" in prisons. ac:1·ording to ;t c:opy ol' lfw dl'cision providnd hy llu' plainlil'/"s lawyPrs. Tim railun~ or 1.lw suit. one ol' a string or rastis against .Japan ·s judir'.ial systmn. was a Sl'IIHH'k to nf'f'orts to opt•n up .Japan's harsh and highly SPn1•1.iw prisons lO public snutiny. Tlw dr,f'r•ns!' prot('Slr\d tlw ruling and said llwy would appPal. "Solitary ronli1w11w111 rnpr<'­sr-11ts a human rights violation at .lupanPSP prisons." lawyPr Yuil'hi Kaido said. "Today's ruling shows again tlw murt is siding with tht\ ad min istralion." 
ltiiriiitll11t@W?fll
Dow AMEx: 
737.80 

JONES ,::.-1s 
Nnstlaq:

+55.50 
25ltt50 
-15.31 

LJ NYSE ~ 
631.b? -146 
S&I' 500: C'ompositr 13-'9.82 

Volume:10395.01 -XX, 991),50-',(> to 
VOLUME LEADERS 

~'QMPANX UC1Sli8 , OtNUil CHAN91 PRICI
• 

COMPAQ co.M,UTH CPQ • 1·.05 •. :Z5l§ 1]. 81 tvnr. CORP !NTC -1..U ,7500 60.SO Cl~Ll.. CO"PUTJ:R DCL,L -J,i!J: -l.37J:I •o.u. SOV'l'UQN BANCO tlO.:H l l. !52!,Q l7. 50 M,JCROBPFT C:QI\P HSr'l' """" -1.10 -:.i .81100 90.U 01.ACLlt COJIP oacr.. -:5.!Lil: -1.j800 23.6..il. PUP:OA!N 'l'ICH PAUl •:U .9S +2. '.2500 l:l.50 J'JNST Hot.DINOS .,,.16 ., .ti5IOO U.H Mli!ll OMLIN& """•oL .i.0,87 +1.3750 159'. 25 PLOP.IDA BANXB ruui; +J70.37 +l.1.8125 J1.. 25 
Kevorkian receives prison sentence 
PONTIAC. Mich. 
Dr. Jack K1workian. who 
vid11olapnd himsnlf' giving a 
man a ldhal i11j1\ctio11 and 
darod prost\cutors to st.op 
him, was senlm1cecl to 10 to 
2:, years in prison Ttwsday 
by a judge who told him: 
"Sir. ronsiclcr yoursol!' 
stoµpcd." 

K1!vorkian. who turns 71 next month, grinned as ho wns led from tho courtroom in handcuffs. saying to a friund. ".luslicn'!" llo saic.l nothing wh<'n given th<' opportunity to speak nt his sontnncing. 
ludgP Jessica Cooper rcfusnd to release him on bail whiln he appeals his murdnr conviction. saying slw coulc.ln'l trust his promise not to take part in any mon\ suicides. 
"That is what he bdinvcs his lil'e mission is," she said. 
In addition to giving K11vorkian thn sentence prosecutors asknd for, the judge handed him lhrefl to sov(m years for delivery of a controlled substance. The scnl!mccs will run concur­rently, and Knvorkian will l'or leniency. But Cooper Even so, she prndictnd the saliva. be 11ligible for parole after was adamant as she lec­debate that Kevorkian Medical examiners con­six years and eight months, tured Kevorkian. brought to tlrn fore will con­sidered tlrn death suspi­a prnsncutor said. "This trial was not about tinue "long after this trial cious. But they had little to 
!lo could have gotten life the political or moral cor­and your activities f'ade go on until Kovorkian sent a in prison. rectness of euthanasia," the from public memory." videotape to CBS. The tape 
DdensA attorney David judge said. "It was about On "60 Minutes," and the "(;o Minutes" inter­Gorosh said that he was you. sir. It was about law­Kevorkian threatened a view with Kevorkian wnrn surprised by ilrn judge's lessness. It was about disre­hunger strike if sent lo the prosncution 's main evi­dPcision and that he hopes spect for a society that prison -a claim he has not dence. it does not amount to a life exists because of the repeatnd. If he dons go on a It was the first murder snntnnce for Kevorkian: "It strength of the legal sys­hunger strike, Michigan trial for Kevorkian. a rntirnd would be a terribl<' tragedy tem." prison policy calls !'or forced pathologist who says he has lo losn such a lwroic ligurn "No one, sir, is above the feeding. bnen involv11d in l 30 deaths in American life." law. No one," she continued. Kevorkian injected Youk sinc<i l lJ<JO, and th1\ first 
The widow and brother of' "You had the audacity to go with lethal chemicals on time Im was found guilty of' Tl10mas Youk, the 52-yenr­on national television, show Sept. 17 at Youk's requilsl. taking part in a death. llis old l.ou Gehrig's disease the world what you did and Youk was in a wheelchair, previous trials. all on assist­pali1rnt whose vidnotaped dare the legal system to stop could barely move his arms ed suicide charges, rnsult(id dt,alh was shown on "60 you. Well, sir, consider or legs and was afraid of in three acquittals and one rvtinutes" last fall, pleaded yourself stopped." choking to death on his own mistrial. 

¦ ALBANIA 

Kosovo conflict widens for a moment 
ASSOCIATEJ) PRESS 
BAJRAM.CVRHl 
Igniting fears of a widening con­flict, Serb forces pushed into· north· em Albania on Tuesday, fought an hour-long skirmish with Albanian troops, seized a border hamlet and torched homes before withdrawing, Albanian officials and international nh:;ervers snid. 
With Albania a major staging ground for NATO forces, even Tuesduy's inddcnt -short-lived, srna.11-scale, with no roportod cnsu­alties -brought a wiHning from Wai:;hington that Yugoslavia would make a grave mistake in expanding tho fighting. · · 
In Belgrade. Yugoslav officials denied anv incursion into Albania. The chic(of the army information service. Col. Milivo,ie Novkovic. so.id on state television that Yugoslavia's dol"ensn of Hs own bordt)rs was "being fabricated as an alleged inva.sion." · 
Albania; in turn, said the Serb push into it$ territory would carry consequences. Sokol Gjoka, an Albanian Foreign Ministry official, said his country would take neces­sary steps .to defend itself, "in dose coordination with our allies." 
These days, that means NATO, 
which has. taken over Albania·s air­fields, airspace and military infra. structure. Ill coming weeks, a force ofApache aUack ht~licopters and thousands .more allied troops will be based ih ;\lhanii\.. 
White House spokesman .Joe Lockhart said Washington had received ''credible reports'' of a Serb incursion, as WAil as past instances of Serb fdrcos cr.ossing the border or $helling Albanian l.er­rltory. 
"If !Yt1goslavl President !Slobodan] Milosevic seeks to widen · this war. it will b& a great mistake,'' 
he said. · The warning came as NATO moved to m.oie..tban double its air 
armada. In Brussels, Belgium. the supreme allied commandtH in Europe, U.S. Army Gen. Wesley Clark. said he bud requested 300 moro U.S. alrcra!'t as wr,11 as addi­tional air power from other NATO allies. 
In Washington. l'resi(font Clinton sald noarly th rce woe ks of NATO airstrikes are "diminishing and grinding down" Milos(wic's military capabilities. 
The Albania border clash. by the ,u;count of international monitors watching from nearby, hogan whon about 50 Serb infantrymen advanl.'.ed on lightly manned Albanian border posts tH1.rly Tuesday afternoon. 
Listening in on the Albanian bor­der p()l!ce rndio f'requoncy, intrmia­tional monitors say they heard police urgently ask Albanian sol­diers stationod a few miles away what to do. Tlrny wore told to stand and fight, but soon reported they were surrounded and retreating. 

page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 14, 1999 
Gov't 
continued from page 1 
platNI by the current resolu­tion," O'Hara wrote in a letter to former student body presi­dent Peter Cesaro. 
There have been other exam­ples of difficulty in student­ad ministration relations throughout the year. 
For much of Urn fa.II semes­ter, the Student Senate lobbied director of Food Services David Prentkowski to allow bookbags in South Dining llall. Despite repeated letters and increased dialogue, Prentkowski never relented, and bags are slill banned from the eating areas of the building. · 
Mamak warns. though, that misconceptions about adminis­trative reccptiYeness to student ideas mav stem frum the fact that few· students come into contact with University deci­sion makers. 
''Not many peopl0 have real strong relationships with administration -it's usually just the student body president or vice president," he said. 
Often times, he said, admin­istrators simply anrn't at liber­tv to meet with every student. 
· "Patty 0'llara can't physiral­ly meet with all t.lrn students that want to meet with her, [so she1 meets with Micah [Murphy] and Michael {Palumbo]," he said. 
Former Pangborn Hall sena­tor Susan Roberts said that this arrangement is not conducive for a close relationship between the administrators and student leaders outside the immediate circle of the office of the president. 
"At the moment, only a limit­ed number of administrators have direct contact with stu­dents in student governm1rnt that are experts on student opinion on certain matters," she said. 
"I think it's limited that administrators will only talk to thP president, \'ire-president, and chief of staff," said Hoberts. "There may be other students or student leaders that may know specifics on a certain issue, it has to be chan­neled through president, vice­president and chief of staff." 
In the end, by the time the information is disseminated to thP proper parties, there is a chance that personal bias may affect the flnished product. 
''Then those three people take what they can from Lim other student government members and other student senators, and put their own twist on that when they pre­sent that to the administra­tion," she explained. 
Like anything, though. l\1amak said that the first step to building a good relationship with the administration is tak­ing the initiative. 
"They're real open to talking, but you've got to dial the num­ber_s on the phone," said Mamak. 
Tim Logan contributed to this report. 
Save the Earth. 
Recycle me. 


"What the?" Look Who's 21 ! Happy Birthday, Cutie! 
Love, Devil 

: • ,!-lENll)RS ... Sf;l,/1()/IS ••. SEM!ORS ... snm,11s,. .~ENll)RS, ..SEHIOll5.,: 
~ 
ij 
' 
001 .JG TO A N(W C1TY1 CARWc j f'lACtAIONT SCilllilC(S CM, IIHr VC!J FtlllU dH1Ell 'I, P, 011.M>S G<HOO T<l T'/11! SN!!: 
cirv. 
STOP liV ,\Ill, STCN UP lit.XII/ 

Professors to be 'arrested' in protest 
By KYLE ANDREWS News Writer 
Select University professors will be treated like their foreign brethren today by being "arrested" in protest of the imprisonment of Ethiopian pro­fessors because of their political heliflfs. 
Nine University professors from a wide array of disciplines will be arrested in th<~ waning minutes of their respective classes bv Notre Dame Security-Police. After the arrests, an Amnesty International representative will be there to dl.spiay a dis­claimer and pass out fliers flXplaining the event to the stu­dents. The detained professors will illfln be incarcerated in a mock jail at the Fieldhouse Mall. 
"Professors hold a special position of authority in society," said Matt Monberg, president of Amnesty International. "As such. they are highly-targeted political dissidents. Abuse or professors not only affects the profossor's right to spr,ak, but also society's right to hear him and seek the truth." 
"Arresting professors out or their classrooms is a dramatic way of making this abuse seem real and personal, and through it we hope to encourage stu­dents to be active in stopping abuses like it, and also gain a better appreciation for the learning environment we have at Notre Dame," said Monberg. 
"It's about bringing civil rights abuses close to home," said Monberg. 
PPtitions will be available at the Fieldhouse Mall jail for stu­dents til sign. The petitions are specifically directed toward th<' violations currnntly taking plar.e in Ethiopia. 
Monberg strongly encourages students to sign the petitions. 
"When you put your name down, it really can translate into something concrete hap­pening," he said. "Artivism pressures the government into making a decision." 
Currcrntly in Ethiopia, tho Tigre Peoples Liberation Front ITPLF] has incarc<'rated many political leaders and profession­als fur their beliefs. Recently the TPLF has arrested Tay0 Wolde Semayate, prflsidcnt o[' the Ethiopian Teachers Association. 
Semayate is one of 42 profes­sors fired from his teaching position at Addis Abab,, University two years ago. 
"There am literally hundreds of professors from around the world who are currently in jail because of tlwir traching or beliefs," said Monberg. 
In another high-profile case, Professor Fat.hi Ahmed Subuh of AI-Azhar University is serv­ing a one-year jail sentence for asking his students to write a paper on the corruption of the Palestinian government. Subuh's home and office were ransacked by authorities, and the student papers were r.onfis­cuted. 
"The arrested professors will symbolize actual professors around the world who have been threatened for their teach­ings," added Monb0rg. 
An effort has been taken to match arrested professors with Notrc Dame professors from similar backgrounds. 
Notre Dame professor Jill Godmillow will represent 1-Ialuk Gerger, a political scientist from Turkey. Philosophy professor William Ramsey will be arrest­ed to represent AI-Awany of Cairo University in Egypt, while assistant theology professor Father Michael Raxter will rep­resent Father Pei Junchao from China. 
Father Patrick Gaffney, asso­ciate professor of anthropology. will be arrested for Father Chen Hekun, also of China. Visiting assistant math professor Christopher Bendel and assis­tant professional specialist in biological sciences Michelle Murphy will represent Monccf Ben Salem or Tunisia and Woloyns of' Ethiopia, respective­ly. 
Associate professor of chem­istry Michard Chctcuti, adjunct assistant professor of philoso­phy Charles Seymour, and phi­losophy professor Karl Ameriks will represent Salem Abuhanak of Libya, Ahn Jae-ku of Korea, and Taye Wolde Semayat of Ethiopa. 
No Summer Plans?? 
Summer Service , Eroject~., .. 
AVAILABLE ( ND 
students only) 
• 
Service-Learning opportunity • $1,700 Scholarship/3 credits 

• 
8 Weeks volunteer work with a disadvantaged population 


In Cities of ND Alumni Clubs 
Applications available: Center for Social Concerns 
Projects available: 
Allentown, PA Catholic Social Services -variety Cleveland local student Denver kids program -local Des Moines Catholic Worker House Detroit LA SED -Hispanic Comm. Cntr -car Ft. Wayne Boys & Girls Club (car) -local Idaho La Posada -migrant workers (spanish) 
Indianapolis variety Joliet Medical -female Kalamazoo migrant workers -( spanish) Kentucky males -2 different spots Los Angeles. Shelter for men-male Marion, IN Abuse programs Michigan City,IN camp for <level. disabled adults Goshen, IN Boys & Girls Club 
Rockford, IL medical, car Savannah, GA Home for children (21 yr. old male) _Washington, DC and more 

CENTER FOR
Stop in for more information or call: s o ~,A L Sue Cunningham 1-7867 or Erika Fuehrmeyer 4-1498 CONCERNS
....._--------------------=---------=:::=:= 

Wednesday, April 14, 1999 The Observer. CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
DAHT and was able to do so,

Holocaust survivors share stories DART but got caught in tlrn system when it crash(~d before he was 
By ERIN PIROUTEK 
New< Writer 
Thosn who helpnd sheller the .Jnws during llrn llolncausL wcrn her1rns of' circumstance, accord­ing to Marilyn Gardner, cxccu­Liv,, vicP prnsirlent of the Jewish Fednration of' St. .Josnph Valley. 
"Though WP can collectivP-ly call tlwsn people noble, lhcy did iL not bccausn it was an nxLra­orclinary thing LO clo. but the right and ordinary thing lo do in nxtraordinary limos," said Carclrwr during ·..Quiet Acts of Courage: The Hight1~nus Among Nations," a program sponsored hy tho .lnwish F11d1\ralion of St. .los1q,h Vall1~y. The program foaturncl t.hn•n spPakPrs com­rn<mling 011 Lim snlllossness of' Lhosn who hnlpnd save .lows l'rom llw Nazi's program of sys­tematic extermination. 
Dora Goldlrnrg, a nativn of' Paris, spokn of lrnr PXpPriences w; a Ilolocausl survivor. 
"Wo wen• a normal family until 1941," slw said. In lfJ41, lwr fallwr rocnivnd a l1ittor from Lhn auLhorities, asking him lo rnport to a local gymna­sium. Though lwr mollrnr accompaniPd him, slw returned al<llll\, 
"Slw was crying and said that Dad wasn't coming home," said (ioldlwrg. 
Whil,• Golcllwrg's l'atlwr was 
detained  in  France,  limy  
atlempt1•d  to knep in  contact  
with him.  

Orw day, hownv1\r, tlrn (instapo w,ire waiting for c;oldherg's motlwr al lwr sis­tp r's aparlmnnt. 1-:vnnlually both of' (;oJdbPrg's paronts per­ishml at t\uschwitz. 
Goldlwrg and her young brntlwr wore left without pro­tnction. 
"Not that many people were willing Lo put their lifo on the line," said Goldberg. "Any time you denounced a .Jewish person you got 80 frnncs for it." 
Evnntually a Christian l'amily in the French countryside took them in and her family claimed to neighbors that it was bncausr, the children nccclcd f'rcsh air, said Goldberg. 
"Everyone in town knew this was a lie, we were .Jewish, but no one said anything," Goldberg stated. 
Goldberg lat1ff came to the United States whnre she attond­ed Notrl' Dume and Saint Mary's. She became a teacher in thn South Bnnd community. 
Notre Dame history professor Doris Bergon spoke of Chambon-sur-Lignon, a small Frnnch town which harborml approximatdy 5,000 Jews dur­ing the llolocaust. 
Tho city harborecl the young and the old -individuals, cou­ples and nntire families rngarclless of' their ability to pay. Bergen said. 
"The villagers of' Le Chambon dicl not count tlwir good deeds," slrn said. 
Loaders ol' the movenrnnt induckd the Protnstant minish•r !\ndri\ Trocmc anrl his wife, 
Magda. 
Bergen stressed three lessons to Im learned from the rescue operation in Le Chambon. 
The f'orcn of' individual con­viction was present. "For them, simply following the principles of' humanity ... was something that grew naturally," said Hergcn. 
"Leaders gave a sense to potential heroes that they were not' alone, they wero not isolat­ed," she said, highlighting the strong IPadership role provided by Trocmc and his wife. 

LP-Chambon also provided a social context in which decency and humanity were promoted rather than dtistroyod. accord­ing to Bergen. 
"Only this context allowed the spark of GoodnP-ss to become a c()nspiracy of goodness," said Bergen. 
rathor .John Sullivan, publish­er ol' Institute of Carmclite Studies Publications, related the story of Pere Jacques, a priest who risked his life to help many during the Ilolocaust, including thrne young .lowish boys. 
"We know that Pere Jacques' risk-taking did not stem the tide or the injustices against his Jewish countrymen, yet for a time he warmed u community," said Sullivan. "lie bolstered thPir will to survive." 
Sullivan hopes that Pere .Jacques' life will serve as an inspiration. · 
"Wo have a chance to do hot­ter here in America than any­whore elsP. May Wf'. learn l'rom Pere .Jacques that the outcome was del'initely worlh it," said Sullivan. 
Tho names, ages. locations of' both births and deaths of lloloccLusl victims were read during the annual "Unto Every Pflrson There is a Name" as an effort Lo honor each victim bv remembering him or her as a11 individual. 
"There's a terrible imbalance between the unfamiliarity of the names of' the dP.ad and the infa­mous names of their murders," Bergen said. 
South Bend mayor Stephen Leucke and Mishawaka mayor Robert Beutter named April 11-18 as Days of Remembrance for the Holocaust in South Bend and Mishawaka. 
continued from page 1 
who was also affected by the DART crash. 
Several students who were assigned 3:45 p.m. DART times wore able to successfully regis­ter, either before the comput­ers in Grace were affected by the glitch or by phone once the lines were restored. 
Lauren Cain and Brian Girnlett, both businP-ss majors, managed to register before the crash. 
"I actually got through to fJt..RT by phom1 before a lot of people who were supposed to go at 3:30 could get through," said Cain. 
Gimletl had a similar experi­ence. lie went to Grace to 
able to complete his registra­tion. 
"I didn't want to cause prob­lems for those who hadn't DAHTed yet, but I couldn't log out," said Gimlett. 
By about 4:10 p.m., the entire system had been restored, and the registrar's office worked diligently to accommodate all whose DAHT timns had expirnd. With more than 10­manned terminals working to quickly aid students, the prob­lem was resolved within a mat­ter of about 1!i minutes. 
0IT and the registrar's office said they are confident that there will be no further difficul­ty with the DAHT system and thny apologized for the incon­vnnience. 
Students to race for fellowship financial aid 
Special to The Observer 
•.· Nqtre Dame _law students are sponsoring n road race Saturday to raise money to send students across the country to work in public interest lawjobs this summer. 
The second annual Race Judicata begins at 11 a.m. at the Law School, and includes a 10-kilometer run, five-kilometer run and (),\le-mile fun walk. 
Registr;i,tiqo for students is $10 in advance and $12 on race day. The fee includes a free T-shirt and brunch. 
Law students will be registering competitors in advance on friday in the dining halls and at Holfs Recreation Center on Thursday and Friday afternoon. 
. Ptoceeds from th(:l Race Judicata fund the Public Interest Law ,fqu)1datiori.'s student fellowships. These awards provide the living expenses for students who are volunteering their summers to work for legal aid organizations representing poor people. 

§.A.A.W.
sexual A§§illllf Awarcnes§ Week 
Mondafi. April 12th Candle Ughf Vigil af fhe Grotto 8:30 P-™­1<.[bbons will be handed ouf af South Dining Hall 
TuesdatJ. April 13th CARE Sk[t "When a k~lss is No-t Just a f<.iss" Hesburgh UbrarH AuditoduU< 8:00 p.U<. Food w[ll be served Ribbons will be handed ou-t at North Dining Hall 
Wednesda.fJ. April 14th Fbnel Discussion Sorln RooU< La.Fortune 8:00 P-™­w/ reps froU< SOS·(Sex Offense Services). CaU<pus Securlt1cJ. Resident Life. St. Joseph Medical Ce1-der. and South Bend PoUce Food will be served 
ThursdatJ. April 15th Fbnel of Survivors Foster Roow La.Fortune 8:00 p.w. Food Will be Served 
Frida.fJ. April 16th Wear jeans in protest of Italian court finding that 
wowen wear[ng jeans cannot be raped. 

1999 Full Time Employees 
Katie Lehan Dave Melander Maureen Rathweg Bill Uniowski Bill Valasek 
It's time for clarity.SM 

Cynthia Baasten Erika Bonner Ryan Dang Christian Halscheid Colleen Herbert Mia Madrigrano Eric Parker 
0 Q 0 
"'1 $4ntt1JkV<1~e1· 
f ;;~t/~~ j~~-• . .;l•·>:: ::·:-·····_ l,lt'~),:;:~U~..Wll'\: '• 
Larissa Parrish Natalie Patla Joseph Pe11 egri no Craig Sheehan Christopher Uhart 
Scott Vanderbeek 
Michelle Zaccarelli 

1999 Summer Interns 
Coley Brady Sean Bruen Brian Cunningham Bob Glynn Tony Guzzo 
Ted Heieck 

We are an equal opportunity employer. © by KPMG LLP, the U.S. member firm of KPMG International. 
Wednesday, April I 4, I 999 The Observer. NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Gunman attacks Simpson at Los Angeles golf course 
Simpson injures 
hand while wrestling attacker in parking lot 
A!-isociatt:d Press 
I.OS ,\NU•:u:s O..l Simpson wr(istl•irl and hit a gunman who triPd lo rob 
him Tuesday in tho parking lot of a golf course, police said. Simpson was cut on the hand during the attack. 
Simpson chasod the assailant in his car while call­ing police on his r:cllular phone. but gav(i up because th<) man was running red lights and police told Simpson to pull over. 
Nobody has been arrest<)d, said Of'f'icnr Jason Lnn, a spokesman for tho 1.c,s Angnles we wrestled for the gun. I bit his hand so he would let go of the gun," he said. 
Simpson cut his hand with the barrel of thP gun. "My hand was bleeding and my first 

Police Department. 
Simpson, in a phone inter­view from home with The Associated Press, called the incident at Los Feliz Golf Course "the weirdest thing." 
"I had finished playing golf 
and was walking to the car called him 
reaction saying goodbye to my bud­by his wasn't to dies," Im said. "I was taking name, say­'HE STEPPED follow him, my shoes off between cars and ing "O.J., I TOWARD hut I got in I sensed someone coming up hear you my van and
ME AND WE

behind me. I turned around carry a lot followed and he was holding a gun on of' money." WRESTLED FOR him." T h e lie said
THE GUN. I BIT
assailant trn got the 
seemed HIS HAND SO HE licensn intent on number,
WOULD LET GO OF THE GUN.'
robbing 
h i m Simpson said. but when he nffPred him money and his credit cards, he didn't take ilrnm. 
"This guy looked like a rngu­
lar solid citizm1," he said. "In his 40s, very clean cut. l might have taken him for an off-duty policeman." 
Simpson said he told him people would see him aiming the gun, but the man refused to leave. 
"He stepped toward mu and 
INTERNET INTERNSHIPS AVAILABLE 
Are you ready to launch your career on the Internet? Are you 
one of the best and brightest minds at your school? 
TapOnline on Campus has a number of New Media Internships in Internet Content Production, Web Development Technology, Internet Marketing, On-line Sales and Internet Production Management. 
Step up to the challenge and join the TapOnline Campus Production Team to build, design and maintain your campus web site! 
For more information on this e:xcitlng opportunity: 
E-mail lnternships@TapOnline.com, or Call 1•800-234-8990 ext 2129. 
,..
'-' 

Built for the students, by the students. 

1998-99 Season 
Notre Dame Film, Television, and Theatre presents
-
me. 
"I said, 'Man, why do you want to screw up your life? Take my car. You don't want to do this.'" 
He said the man lookfld at him and 



which he 
gavo to 0.J.StMl'SON pol.ice, l.lwn 
wont to the policn sta­tion. 
Asked if he thought the inci­don t was an attnmptcicl ear­jacking, he said, "lie didn't want Urn car, Im wantml me," 
In 1994, Simpson was acquitted of' murdering ex-wif'o Nicolo Brown Simpson and Honald (;oldman. llowevor, lw later was found liabln for tlrnir deaths in a civil trial and was ordered to pay $:B.5 million in damages. 
adiniV\istV-L"\tov-. Please cot,tac+ 6r-ik 
at "l-8839 fo~.. 
J,'V\OV'e 
jt\fO V'l''V\0 ti OJ'\;· 


page 10 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, April 14, 1999 
¦ MALAYSIA 


Ex-Prime Minister Sinn Fein leaders reject plan 
11,e Associated Press and the Ulster Unionists' insistence that the
faces prison time 

process must start before they will share power 
Associated Press 
KUALA LUMPUH 
Ousted Deputy Primn Minister Anwar Ibrahim was convicted of corruption and sentenced to six years in prison Wednesday, in a ver­dict expected to change the face of Malaysian politics. 
High Court Judge Augustinn Paul found Anwar guilty on all four corruption charges. Paul sentenced Anwar to six years in prison on each charge, say­ing the sentences woulu IH1 
served concurrently.  
"I  find  him  guilty  as  
charged." Paul said.  
There  were  gasps in  thn  

courtroom when the sentenc­ing was r11ad. 
The six-year sentence was longer than must observers had anticipated and effectiv(~ly bars Anwar from politics for at least five years upon his release from p.rison 
But Anwar turned to rnporters in the courtroom. shrugged and said, "/\re you surprised? I'm nol." 
Anwar. finance ministnr since 1991 and deputy prinw minister since 1993, still fact's another corruption chaq{" and five counts of sodomy. 
During the bizarre trial. which opened l\iov. 2 and ran for 78 days, Paul listened Lo 23 prosecution witnesses and 22 from the defense. The stall1 argued that Anwar was a cor­rupt adulterer. A mattress said to contain Anwar's semi­nal fluids was dragged into the courtroom and key wit­nesses testified he had sex with women and men; his for­mer driver said he was Anwar's "sex slave." 
The defense argued that Anwar was a devout Muslim, innocent of all charges and the victim of a political con­spiracy to eliminate his chal­lenge to Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad's 18-year leadership. 
Anwar described the judg­ment as handed down by Malaysia's powerful ruler and his former boss. 
"It is not the court, but tlrn conspirators who are sending me to jail," he said. "I havP been dealt with a judgment that stinks to high heavens." 
Anwar's conviction and jail term could make him a largm· hero in Malaysia and a rally­ing point for the fragmented opposition. 
The main Islamic opposition party is also expected to por­tray Anwar's imprisonment as an example of how Muslim 

loaders ar1'. trnated by Mahathir's govnrnment. Anwar is widdy vi1)wed as an Is I a rn ic s c Im I a r a 11 d cnj oys support a111ong younger Muslims. Aft1\r llH\ v.-rdict was announcnd. riot police fired water cannons at some 3,000 anti,govc\rnmnnt d1nnonstra­turs a~ they mardwd from the National Mosque to the courthouse. 
"Mahathir·s Frame-up. Anwar Is l1111ocP11t." read a bann1,r al the lend or the march. Wlrnn !)Ulire, armed with automatic rif"l<'s, came at tho crmNll. tlw d1:11Jonstrators droppnl to llw ground and some hurled rocks at the om­cers. 
EarliPr, abou( :mo shouting Anwar supporters were) do uSl! d w il Ii yn llo w-dyed wat<!r wfw11 tlrnv r<•l"used to 
disperse. Chanting "rnfonnasi. rdormasi." th1• Malay word for rnform and .'\nwar's rally­ing cry. and carrying onlarged portraits ol' i\11w11r, the group was blorko<l a l'nw hundred vards from tlt1• courthouse, ' OpposiLion lirnuPrs ha.d pre­dicted that thousands of peo­ple would turn up Lo protest the v1irdict. But most opposi­tion attempts al Drganizing mass d(•monstralions have failed sincp 
J\nwar was put bd1ind bars and w1int on trial in November. 
Days af"tcr Im was rired on Sept. 2. An\\ar launched a nationwidn lour calling for Mahalhir's rnsignulion. From initial t'.rowds of several hun­dred people i11 llw backyard of his residencn. Anwar mobi­lized t,)ns of thousands of activists within two weeks, 
For llw first tinrn 1iver, citi­zens in the typic,illy placid Soutlrnast Asian nalion gath­ered morn than 30.000-strong at the capital's National Mosque on SPpl. 20. 
Polil:n arrnsu~d Anwar that night, pummdnd him, brought him to court 10 days later with a badly llruis1\cl eye and charged him 11ith 10 counts of" corruption and illngul sex. 
International and local human rigills groups con­demned Lhe VPrclict. 
"What should ham been a neutral legal proc1•ss was cor­rupted hy p1·1:ryLliing from suspicious circumstances, in which a Mahathir-f"ricndly judge was assignnd, to tho blatant hnstilitv toward the defonsn." said Hobert 0. Wei1rnr of' tlw ;"\imv York-based Lawyers Commi!lec for 
Human llighh. 
BELFAST 
Hcsisting pressure from other parties, Sinn Fein negotiators formally rejected a compromise plan Tuesday that would allow Northern Ireland's long­dolayed government to he formed in exchange for an lllA concession on arms. 
The Irish Republican Army-linked party made Uw announcement after all eight parties that backed last year's Good Friday peace accord gath­ernd Lo discuss the plan proposed by the British and Irish prime ministers. 
J\l'lnr negotiating for two hours in the same room whore the accord was struck, Sinn Fein chairman Mitchel McLaughlin accused Britain's Tony Blair and Ireland's Bertie Ahern of trying to rnwrite the accord to satisfy the Ulster Unionists, l\ort.hern Ireland's major British Protestant party. 
l\lcLaughlin, whose party insists it should rncnivn two seats in the Protestant-Catholic gov­ernmont without delivering anything from the IRA in rnturn, called the prime ministers' plan "an att1•111pt to move away from the (;ood Friday agrnnment. It makes transfer of powers dependent on IHA !weapons] decommissioning." 
/\hern and Blai.r have recommended a middle puth between the IRA's blanket refusal to disarm 

Two cra.nes:;lay first eggs in wild 
The Assoc.iatcd Press 

·crane Foundation. said laid eggs again. The last sur­. Monday, ~But wo don't really vivor of that flock died in ST. PETERSBURG; Fla. <;~p.ect itto happen." 1950. 
Two whooping cranes· hav()'. . 'tjlogistK.:1,thyBullivan said Researchers desperate to produced the first egg§ la.id in . ... eggs therriselves were "a save the birds from extinction the U.S. wild in decades, rais-big enough accomplishment.'' found the Canadian birds' ing hopes that the birds will ',5 Once, thousands of whoop­nesting grounds and, begin­make a comeback a,ijer nearly :fog cranes soared across the ning in the late 1960s, started being wiped out.. ._. .. < IJ:µi~ed St{l-te,s1 their bugling taking eggs to try to resurrect 
The 4-vear-oltl;>cttnes ar1i ; ~:audible for miles. ·. the species by raising birds in part of an experh-iiehta.l floclc .. utsettlers drained marshes captivity. raised in captivity and placed and plowed prairies, destroy• In 1993, federal officials i11 central Florida's Kissimmee. ·mg the crane's habitat. started sending whooping Prairie. None hadproduced · · By 1938, only two small cranes raised in captivity in 
eggs. . remained: one that nest• Maryland to Florida as an "We'll be h. · • · ·· ·. ·• tid winteredJn experiment. hatch· 
and w 't,her thatUve.d Over the last three years.happy. ii" they . o biologists have seen six of the ·ed out most of birds pair off. But none had director of th lt birds, and ry.me laid eggs. 
ATTENTION SOPHOMORES! 
ORDERS _MAY NOW BE PLACED FOR YOUR CLASS RINGS 
[ ·~·"6ot News? Call 1-5323. 

with Sinn Fein. 

The prime ministers said Sinn Fein should receive its posts one month bnfore the IRA dispos­es of some weaponry, after which the British gov­ernment would hand powers to the new 12-mem­ber government. 
The two men were expected to get directly involved in the negotiations later this week. but only if the gap between Sinn Fein and..thc other parties appeared to be narrowing. 
Hoth the major Catholic-supported party. the pacifist Social Democratic and Labor Party, and the Ulster Unionists said Sinn Fein shouldn't expect to benefit from the accord if it doesn't meet its responsibilities. 
At the heart of the stalemate is the deliberate vagueness of the agreement, which called for the lHA to unish disarmament by May 2000 but speci­fiP.d no point for starting the process. 
While clearing the way for early paroles for more than 120 IHA prisoners, the accord also called for Sinn Fein to "demonstrate a commit­ment to exclusively peaceful and democratic means," a condition that the Ulster Unionists and the British and Irish governments agree is incom­patible with the Ill.A's retention of weapons. 

.___I_] \\_j 
Orders may be placedfor your class ring beginning Monday, April 19th from 9:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. The Hammes 
Notre Dame Bookstore 
"in the Eck Center" Open Monday through Saturday 9 am -IO pm Sunday 11 am -JO pm 

Wednesday, April 14, 1999 The Observer• NEWS page 11
-·------------------..:......._.:::__ 
Pentagon, NATO study WWII Yugoslav resistance 
Associated Press 
Wt\SIIINCiTON 

1'1intagon and NATO oflicials t:onsicltiring ground troop options for Yugoslavia are studying thr. history ol' Yugoslav rnsistanco during World War II, wlrnn hundreds or thousands of (;erman sol­dir.rs f'ailr.d lo pacify doter­mined guerrilla opposition. 
Thn Na:li campaign was t·all1)d "Operation Punishment," renccling Adolf' llit11ir's rago against Yugoslav partisans who ov!ir­threw their own government after Belgradn madn a pact with B(lr)in. Tlw campaign was wnll nam1id -Yugoslav civil­i1u1s wr.re altackl'tl with an i!lt(insity rar bt!yo11<I anything N.i\TO would contemplate. 
l II the fHHI • t h o ugh . t hu W11rmachl look pl11nly of pun­ish mr.n t. t\nd fivn decados latf!r thn campaign off'nrs IHssons ror any force reckon­ing to do baltl1\ wilh the hurdy "South Slavs" who plagued tilt' CHrma11 army in a costly gtwrrilla war. 
When NATO firsl stud ilid ground troop options last fall. Clinton ndministration plan­twrs citml lhl' German expcri­PIH'.t! as one reason to rule out ground troops as an option in lfw Kosovo rrisis. 
"Wn always look at historical campaigns -that's something wti always do" when planning a deployment, said Ma,i. Slwlly StPllwagt'n, an Army spokns­womun. Rul sho cautionncl, "llistory alone is not r.nough ­you've got to look at tho big were never able to quell the Yugoslavia's cooperation, and picturn." multiple . and dogged in early 1941 he thought he 
Alfor insisting !'or weeks that Yugoslav resistance f'orces. had it. 110 pln11s for ground troops An official U.S. Army history But Hitler badly misjudged worn in the works, top Clinton of the campaign, written in the the sentiments of the Yugoslav administration officials now early 1950s, contained a people. concode that so11rn contingen­warning for any future force A coup in March 1941 top­c i r.s wnro studied and that contemplating chal11rnging pled Yugoslavia's royal gov­plans could quickly be acti­Yugoslavia on the ground. ernment, setting a precedent valod if NATO t h a t decided on a undoubtedly ground assault. influences the 
U.S. lawmak­'THESUCCESS ACHIEVED BY THE [YUGOSLAV] GUERRIL­thinking of Prs, frustrated Yugoslavia's
LAS AGAINST THE GERMANS ..• STRENGTHENED CON·
with lhe con­current lead­tinuing ethnic SIDERABLY THE TRADITION OF RESISTANCE TO FOREIGN c rs hip: 
c Iea11 s i11 g in OCCUPATION FORCES.' Governments the Kosovo that cave in 
province of to foreign Yugoslavia U.S. ARMY II/STORY OF THE Wom.D WAR JI pressure will dnspite a 
CAMPAIGN BY THE NAZIS IN YUGOSLAVIA be ousted from t h r 11 e -w e e k within. Nt\TO air cam-Hitler, in a paign, are rage, ordered pushing a rnso-the carpet­lution to autho• bombing of rize ground Belgrade. troops. "The success achieved by the Hitler's War Directive No. 25 Pnntagon plannors said they (Yugoslav) guerrillas against said, "The ground installations wern r.arnl'ul not to overdo the tho Germans ... strengthened of the Yugoslav air force and comparison of two markedly considerably the tradition of the city of Belgrade will be diffnrnnt armies fighting with resistance to foreign occupa­destroyed from the air by con­dif'fenmt equipment in differ­tion forces," tho Army history tinual day and night attacks." ent political contexts. But the concluded. "There is little The strikes began 58 years dil'liculty oft.he terrain and tho doubt that a foreign invader ago this month. on April 6. stubbornness of the Yugoslav today, whether from East or 1941. peopln remain powerful West, would be confronted The Germans aimed specifi­common den()tninators, they with a formidable task of paci­cally at killing civilians during said. fication following a successful 48 hours of near-continuous The German invasion force campaign against the regular bombing. Hitler wanted to of nearly 200,000 -a figure forces of the Balkan nations." spare Yugoslavia's factories some U.S. officials have cited As Hitler planned "Operation for his own use. NATO, by con­as necessary to invade Barbarossa," the German trast, has been seeking to Yugoslavia today -fluctuated invasion-of the Soviet Union, avoid civilian casualties while al'ter 194 l from a low of he wanted to secure his aiming at destroying Yugoslav 60,000 to a high of 700,000. southern nank by neutralizing military and weapons installa­Through it all. the Germans Greece. To do that he needed tions. 
The Germans used 1,000 attack and escort aircraft in those 48 hours. NATO has employed .700 -soon to be 1,000 -strike and support aircraft in three weeks of attacks. 
Estimated death totals from the Nazi bombing range wide­ly. but published German and American nstirnatns put the total as high as 17,000. 
The German ground invasion consisted of a dozen divisions -roughly 180,000 troops ­supplemented by forces from Bulgaria and Italy. German forces complnted their con­quest of the Balkans in 11 days. 
But the lightning conquest only began Germany's troubles in the Balkans. 
Despite brutal tactics. sum­mary executions and wh()le­sale burning of villages, German forces assaulted gunr­ril Ia strongholds again and again, only to see the robels slip into the hills and fornsts. By mid-1943. the U.S. Army history recounted, " It was obvious that more German troops would be required if the Balkans were to be held." 
Total German forces peaknd at 700,000 at the beginning of' 1943, though many or these troops were either green or battle-weary veterans resting from the Hussian front. No precise casualty figures exist for German l'orces in Yugoslavia. 
Belgrade foll to the west­ward-marching Hussians on Oct. 20, 1944. 

SHOW CANCELLED 

He will NOT play in theLaFortune Ballroom tonight
Doors will NOT open @ 7p.m. · There is NO date rescheduled yetReturn tickets for FULL refund Check out his music @ www.davidwilcox.com Send Dave get well cards & ~rai for his throat There's still time to go to the Roil Stewart show (I saw a guy scalping tix @ tfle corner of Notre Dame & Angela) 

\ 
\,, VIEWPOINT 
page 12 
Wednesday, April 14, 1999 
THE OBSERVER 
No rnE D,IME Ot·FIU; P.O. Box Q. Nurre Dame. IN 4G556 (219) G3 !-7471 

1999-2000 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Michelle Krup:1 MANAGING EIJITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
M. Shannon Ryan Dave Rogero 
MSISTAt<T MANAGING EDITOR Laura Pt'(clle 
NEWS EDITOR .......  ..............Tim Logan  AUVtR'TlSlNG MANAGER...•••. , ..............Brvan Lttcl  
V1FWPOINT EDITOR ...  ....CollITn G:11.l~1~n  An DF..s1<;N MAN~GF.R  . .  ..Ktnnerh.Kearnt:y  
SPORTS EDITOR  . ...... Bri:111 K;ssler  S\'STEMS MA.NAGFR. .  . ...[\,'fichad Rever~  
SCFNE EntTOTT..  .  .../\1ichad V,neg,s  CoNTROt.Lrn.  ..Timorhy Lmc  
SAINT MARY'S Eunou.......Collern McCmliy  CR,\l'IIIC.S EmTOIL ............................Joe Mudie,  
!'HOH> EDITOR  ......................,.Kevin D.ilum  Wrn AnMIMSTMTOR.......................1:rik Kushro  

Tht.: Oh.'il.:rv..!t is rh..: in,Ji:p..:nJcrn 11-:wspapcr puhli!,lu:<l br d11.!s.tudcnb 1)r rhc U11i\'<."n,ii:y !.,fNotn: Dame Ju L1e and Snim "'fa1y'.~ Collc1:,L:. Ir tlilc:,.-. no! 1w<:t:~sari1y rdlt:cf th<.: poli~il.!~ 1l th!." .1J1ni11istr,1tion ufc:ithi:r.i11stirn1ion. The news is rep,orh:ll w, accurat.:ly .inJ objc(:tivdy .1,; pos~ible. Unsigned l·ditori.ds represent rlw opiniun ,)f the rnnjmity of'the­Fdiwr-in•Chicf. Man.:1gi11g Fdii,u, As\ist.mt \.bnngi11& Fditor .iitd di:1~•utrn~'nr t.:dhor\. Con11ncnr:ni-e~. knds ;ind a,h1mn.1o pri::s.:nt the vk·w~ ofthe authors :ind nn1 nec.?",;s:=rily those nfThl' Observer. Vic\vpnint ~p:tcc i1o :ivai!:ih1e ro all n,emhi;.rs of rhe Notre-D:in,e/S:1im M:iry\ comm11nm, aml to .1II rt"Jdcrs. The fret' ex:pr(.'l;'.ion of v:,rying opinions t hrou~h knc.-rs i\ encouraged. ' 
Cootacring The Observer 
Edimr-in-Chief  631-45,)2  Otlicc lvLm.1gc:r/Gcner~,l Infonnation  G31-~471  
M.1n,Lgit1g Editor/A.,~i:-rnnl' ME  6.? l-45•11  Buslnc:ss Oft.cc  631-5313  
:\few.~  63 J-5.123  J\d\1erti.~ing  G., J.6'!00fP840  
Vi~wpoint  6.~ I-5:303  Systems/Web Adminiim:tror  631 -P8.l9  
Sporrs­ 631-4543  l':1x  6:Jl-6927  
Scene  631-4540  Ad E-M,il  observer@dmvin.cc.nd.edu  
Saint M:,n•')  6_, 1-4324  New-' E-tvbil  ohservcr.obsnews.l@nd.edu  
Phna,  ·  6.:\ 1-8767  Viewpoint F.-M,til ob.,crvcr. vicwpoinr.1@nd.edu  



What Every "Schmoe" Must Know 
Any number of college students shun high-paying summer jobs that take place in an of1ice building, require power suit-; and jaunty ties, and in general look impressive when typed in carefully bold­cd Courier font. There are those who instead opt for the ollbeat, the adventur­ous, the unsanctioned by the Career and Counseling Center. There's a lot to be said for these people: They are schmoes. 
Mary Beth Ellis 

I know. I am one. "You're going to work on a ranch in Colorado! What fan­tastic life experience you'll gain!" people were saying to me last year at this time. Yes, how by-God unique! I-low wildly beautiful! Just think ol' the fabulous insights on the universe I would obtain! Such as, "I am a really, really big schmoe." 
I honestly didn't mind the work at Tumbleweed River Hanch. You do learn a lot about yourself while scrubbing a cabin floor. while sanitizing-without a dishwasher -the utensils generated by a 27-person meal. and while sweeping dead flies into an orderly pile (specifical­ly, you learn: "I AM TIIE OFFICIAL SCllMOE OF TIIE MILLENNIL:M!"). It was just that I far preferred the baked-on grease and legs-up llies to my co-work­ers. who were hired under the State of Colorado's 1997 Moron Protection Affirmative Action Law. They possessed a sparkling Renaissancian flair for conver­sation, which basically ranged from the type ofalcohol they would be consuming that evening and the manner in which they had procured it. all the way to the type of alcohol tlrny planned to consume the following evening and the manner in which they planned to procure it. (Before I parted from their company I distributed applications to my brother school, where, I must say, they would initially fit in nice­ly.) 
Scrubbing at my side was Laura, who had decided to obtain a Master's degree in a program that, quot,i, "has the word 'social' in it, but I'm not quite sure what it's called, exactly." And there was Charity. head of the waitresses and cabin girls, who at one point handed me a gar­den spade and a baggie, saying, "Get rid of the dog droppings out on the lawn." And there was Jim, who had just com­pleted a two-year degrne in -and rm not quite sure which color tassel this 
would qualify for on a mortarboard ­ ,/  
"Forestry and Backwoods  _\~  
Horsmnanship."  ,  
Not to imply that Jim's degree  
was at all useless. We were trail­ 
blazing on horseback one day  
through an area dotted with the  
occasional fallen tree. "You see  
that'!" he said, pointing at a grove  
of snapped-off trunks. "The wind  
blew those down." Then Im  
.thought it over. "Well," he conced­ 
ed, something made them !'all  
over."  
And, last but by no means least,  
there was the inimitable Nate, with  

whom I had the following verbatim con­versation: "Whatcha settin' your sights on, little lilly'?" 
I informed him that the little filly was majoring in English and political science with plans tu eventually secure an MFA and a svndicatcd humor column. 
Nate ~pat an amber stream of Copnnhagen runoff into his beer bottle. "You know," he said, as I braced myself for Humorous Yet Insightful Words to Live fly. "I just 1•vant to make me enough money to pay off my truck and keep me in tobacco." 
"You gotta have goals," I said, nodding. 
At the helm of' this think tank was a couple from New York who had rnceived their administrative training from the Joseph Stalin School of Management Life at Notre Dame is Woodstock comparcd to the society these people created. The wife once directed me to clean the tile or her personal shower that, from the looks of it, had been steadily accumulating soap scum since at least the Hoover Administration. I managed~ 
~ 
totri-~~ 
rocks." 
I pointed tiui that, while I did not pos'. scss Jim's export cnvironnrnntal training, it seemed to me that if I were to do so, I would basically hav(1 to remove• the mountain on which we were currently standing, dust being, as it were, com­posed or nothing BUT little rocks. "!*#% off," he said, and !(ift. Good idea. Curled in the fetal position in seat 9-A on the next llight home to Cincinnati, I searchnd for The Lesson. There's ALWAYS a lcs­~on, What was The Lesson? What had I 
"'~ loarned'? Aside from the fact that 1 
-l." 
.:r­
umph with the aid of cleaning agents later classified by the CIA as bio­logical weapons, and when I was fin­ished, she looked at me and said, "Don't use so many paper towels next time." 
And the next day, her husband, not to bi~ outdorw in the category ofArbitrary Tyranny, handed me a broom, pointed to the dust trail that led to one of the cab­ins, and sai<l, "Get rid of all the little 
was a schmoe; that was, by now, a given. But what realizations could I take away from this ...........,_ experience? And could I sell them to "Chicken Soup For the Moron Soul, Volume 
II?" 
I've finally figured it out: In the event that someonn hands you a 
broom and tells you to swnep away a signifi­cant portion of Colorado, you should imnrndiatdy ram tlw 
broomhandlc into tlwir most conveniently painful bodily orifice. Not a day goes by I that don't rngret having that (ixpnrience to
/ 
type in bold Courinr font on my resume. 
Mary Beth Ellis, a senior at Saint Mary's College who is majoring in English writing and political science, is proud to announce an alliance with the Miami News-Record ofMiami, Oklahoma, where upon graduation she will write 
features and humor columns in exchange for a double-wide cardboard box in which to reside. What will YOU he doing in 
May? 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofthe Obseruer. 

¦ DOONESBURY 
~ /1(//fffl Ya!iLJOK AT/,f/AWEM YOU Sfl JiTA COtllfl:r. JffFF; 7}!/3 PAC&/Al,//? '/f)IJ _ 
YOIJf{AV/3 70 Mr< YaJR-PICK YalR R:JC/./5/
5alf '1/5 7Jf/S.A PIAt:e FOi?. IN5TANC8,YO/.JR
mA'TMtl-/:WarJMGfi' MOM SAYSyaJHdWE 
Ml310Be.AUI f<e.AL--7it/UWTFOi?.
('ARE-;{)Bt?"f" 
\ 
~ 
GARRY TRUDEAU 

1(1£.U, OVGR A OOYal 
Pef'tW05.

PIAJ,,l}tJN, ya; 
THIN/< 
YaJPf_AY

PURSi.E-7HATR, ICt}tJW 
9AU-'!
W/ANl?R, r/Nl5H 
Ot!T1-f/e/-l \ GCHOOl­
"1}{9R/3~ 
\ 
¦ Qucrrt fJF THE DAY 
, The more I see of men, the better I like dogs.' 
-Madame Roland 


VIEWPOINT 
Wc:dm·.,day, April 14, 1999-------------------os~ERVER --------------------------page 13 
¦ LIKE ARROWS IN THE HANDS OF A WARRIOR 
Sweatshops Cheapen All 
¦ LEnrns TO THE EDITOR 
Students Respond to 
Inflammatory Column 
.. 

"F<-w ran contemplate without a sense of 1'.r.hilaralion the splendid achieV('fttents of practical enr>rgy and tr•chnical skill. which. from thr> latter part ofthe 17th /20th/ nwtur,11. were fransforminu lite face ofmalerial C'i.11ili::alion, and of which Hnylm1<l was /the llnited States wure/ the during, ifnot too scrupulous, pioneer. If. how,·r•er, ecorwmic a111/iitiuns are goocl 1wri1ants, they am lmd masters. 
11w most obi-iousfacts the mm;t ectsily ji,rgou1•rt. /ioth 1h1• 1·.r.isling ecorwmic order and tori man!{ r{f the projects acluancecl for reconstructing it hreak down t./1rough lheir neglect of the truism lhat, sinn· 1•trr•n qttil,. com11wn men harm souls, nu i11c1w1se in material wealth will com• pi'llsat.,• them }<ir arrangements which insult lhr'ir .w1if-respect anrl impair £heir freedom." 
noij-ust part of the recipe to rnake a car; it is Charlio, with idr.as and h6pes and 1·,~sponsibilities. rn,ing his hands and his mind und his lungs and his heart and, yes, his suul, to make a Jiving for his family by making one !inc car. 
Once we realize that Sara has throe kids al home, an absent husband and a raring brothor. we roalize that we rnust treat lrnr with critnria that are moro than economic. We realize that lowering prices for the American rnarkd is not all thal matters; there is a family that needs tho extra 15 cents an hour. You must realize that "pay• ing a person what he is worth" is not, at all, a matter of marginal productivity of bargaining power. A person's worth is not the value of what lrns been produced or tho last cnncossion nft<1r tho last strikn. A porson is a soul, and his work cannot he 
-IL ll. Tawney, 
===============~ bought and sold. It can 
Hdig'ion and tlw only be givr-n, in Hiso of Capitalism. oxchango for what is fair and decent. In a What is tlw ar~u­S(1nSt1, the labor con­
Gabriel 

rm:nt for sw1mt· ' tract is more like a gift shops'? OnP of' the exchange than a mar­argumnnts b that ir ket transnclion. So the
Martinez

tlws(i placrs am sn pay and the conditions bad, why do pcoplr must reflect the fact 


clwosP to work in ltlf'm'! If' they don·t. liki• the conditions, t.he pay. or thn treatment. why do they make long li11ns to gi•t one of'tbose "torrible" jobs'! Tlws,• jobs am bPing offered in areas wlH1n• ther0 ar0 no jobs, whnre this is the b<'st altPrnativP. HHhttivcly speaking, it must b1• a very gond alternutive. Clearly. rwn if conditions and pay am bad from thn point of view of W<'stcrn 1niddle-dass artivists, they ani an irnprovemPnt nver what ran bl' geni•rally l'ound in. say. Appalad1ia or Mnxko or Thailand. Multirrntiunals evidently clo workers a favor by providing llrnm with jobs. 
lfosidcs. goes the argument, a corpora• lion is not a charitable institution. If a cor• puration does not uso all tlw opportunities available to it, including cheap labor, it is not fulfilling the mission for which it exisl'>. This mission is to utilize society's resources in the most cllicicnt way, that is, producing the maximum benefit at the minimum cost. By doing this, corporations obtain a mturn f'or those who risked their capital and contributed their talents. If a corporntion did not lake the opportunities a!Torct••d hv low-cost lubor. it would be wasting socit'ty's rosourcos by paying wagt's that higher than necessary. A ccir­poration ·s objertive, goHs the argumPDt. is not to t.ako earn of lb; workers, but to take care of' thE' interests of the owners, and through them. of society in general. 
Leave aside for a minute the issue of whether this is how manager's minds operatll. Let us suppose that managers and Boards of Dirnctors indeod seek to maximizn bcnefib and minimize costs. If one accopts this as a valid corporate objective, thPn swPatshops are completely acceptable. It is ovory nwn, woman, and ehild for him or herself. The lower the labor costs. thu lower the prices or the bigger the dividnnds: al any rate, society wins, doesn't it. bocaus(J that monny is spBnt som('how. isn't it'! Oh, well. that is anotlwr issue altogothor. 
But what ir ono does not accopt the argument that costs must be minimized'? Why would on1> do such a thing? The quolf, with which I start this artidn tells us why. lfocauso human boings are not Just parts of th" economic machine. If human beings ha,v11 souls, thn economic system in which Lhry live "must satisfy crit11ria which are not purely Hconomic" !Tawney). 
What i:; labor'? One thing ls dear: it is not a commodity. It is not like gmln or iron. It is not a resource, at least not in the sense that land or machines are a resource. It is not. ronlly,just an oconomic concept. Labor ls a person's work. Not just work, but a person's work. Labor, there­forn. is not a culturnlly-conLextual. social­ly-determined category. When a person works, she puts into her work part of her­self. You might say that a mnn finds self­Hxpression in work. 34 hours of work is 
that we are dealing with ,L human being, created by God and prncious in His eyes. 
In consequence, it is only fitting that the University of Notre Dame make all of the efforts possible to mako suni that absolutely no sweatshops are being used. If using no sweaLshops means that sou­vonir pricos go up, let them go up. What is at stake is bigger here. No effort can be spared in ensuring that our T •shirts and our pens were built without conscious exploitation. The president of the University should go out of his way, really out of his way, to make sure there are no sweatshop products in the Hammes Bookstore, because what is al stake is · human dignity. 
This said, a word of caution on whatis a sweatshop. Bear in mind that the cost of living in other countries is much lower than in the U.S., and wages may seem much lower than they arc in real terms. Bear in mind that dress, housing, and food consumption standards vary across the 
world. · · This said, it is true that people often choose to work in sweatshops. Indeed they have no better altornative. Usually the alternatives have lower pay, even if some~ what better conditions. So, in a sense, cor• porations do those workors a favor: They save them from starvation. That is why it makes no sense to give incentives for cor­porations to leave the area; the alternative may well be wo,rse. But even if it is true that workers in 
sweatshops have no choice. we do. We havo a choice. We can accept higher prices or lower dividends from corpora­
tions that choose to pay their ·workers what is decent. 
We oppose sweatshops for exactly the same reason we oppose homosexual activ• ity and rn.cism. We oppose sweatshops for tho same reason we oppose gay-bashing and divorce. We condemn the exploitation or the worker and the fa.ct that some peo­ple don't caro for tho same reason we con~ demn wife-beating and abortion. We reject a culture that wastes food and energy and that uses artificial Ct~ntraeeption for the same reason we reject a culture that thinks the exploitation ofsome is neces• sary for the enrichment ol' all. We reject it because we believe in human dignity. We insist that the University of Notre.Dame have no part whatsoever in the pr~cHce ?f . swoatshops becaus0·men and womenare children of God. 
Gabriel Xcwier Martinez is a graduate student in Economics. His column appears e11ery other Weclnesday. 
Tlw views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
After reading Sean Vinck's article entitled "Liberalism Analyzed," I am very tempted to write a long psycho• analysis in response to Vinck's biased generalizations of liberals. I could write paragraphs on my personal beliefs about the sacredness of lifo in all forms and I do consider myself lib· eral, if one wishes to categorize indi­viduals. I denounce abortion and euthanasia, but I also include mili• tarism, corporate giantism and racism on that list. 
I will not, however, psychoanalyze Vinck's views because it is useless to revert to the tactics of those who oppose you. Erasmus tells us, "If your enemy is hungry. give him something to eat ... In doing so you will heap coals of lire upon his head, this is to say, you will en kindle the fire of' love in him." Scan Vinck attempts to starve his "enemies" of respoct and dignity. This sort of journalistic violence is similar to the violence we sen in inner cites, the formor Yugoslavia, and Iraq. 
Also, I can't help but notice tlw title of the column, "Not Peace, but the Sword." This article really is "The Sword of the Observer." Didn't Jnsus teach that "thosn who live by lhn sword will dio by the sword'!" 
Then is it a safe assumption that the significance of the views expressed in Vinck's column will eventually die? 
Brendan Egan Freshman, Sorin Ifall April U. 1999 
Mud~Slinging Does Not Belong in The Observer 
Mr. Vinck's "Liberalism Analyzed" attempts to make the point that eitlrnr positions of liberalism or conservatism can be taken to an extreme. In doing this, hoth viewpoints can appear found­ed on nngative human emotions and blind to any type of formal logic. Unfortunately, such a point is not explicitly cloar in his article. Whether this was the intention or not, Mr. Vinck's piece shares more commonal· ties with a method that is often imple­mented by politicians and is popularly known as "mud-slinging." It can be done against anyone for any reason. 
However, this effort of persuasion is totally ineffective. It does one of two things: arouse greater animosity in thn opposition or receive instant dismissal by those intelligent enough to rnalizo the futileness of such an attempt. Pertaining to the formor, such a piece as Mr. Vinck's does nothing but present unconstructive criticism with the ratio­nale of making a point. It should have bnnn rncogniznd by The Obsmvl1r as a simple "venting" of' emotion, not an individual pnrspnctive that leads to a hotter understanding and great,ir respect for a particular position, rac<\ organization. orinntation, 1itc. Such a piece as Mr. Vinck's has no placn in The Observer. 
Some will call this censorship in an area of The Obsorvm· whom cnnsorship 
. holds tlw least appropriateness. It is censorship, hut failurn to do sonrn cnn­soring leaves the door open for a publi­cation to dngonoratn into what is popu­larly known as a tabloid. Wlwrn the linn is drawn is ultirnatnly up to tlrn rnadnrs. 
Michael Cory Campbell Sophomore, Sorin Hall April 13. I')99 


..

r-----------------------­
page 14----------------------------------Wednesday, April 14, 1999 
,,,  ",... ··,  .i:·~:t~::·  <i-:-.  
·'._  R  =t:}  :-,­ 
:~::  ~  :::·  ~~/'  :1 ;:  
,..'.  ,,i::'·':  •.. :,  

~ '"..-{'..; ',;i>:_=,.__;~=::i~~ ,.,,_-·,;,_
;,~ ........ ·-.; 


Not enough people on this campus know about the late '80s phenomenon, Operation Ivy. For some strange reason, this band's music is sor.ely absent on a campus that embraced the Skalkoholics and continues to coo after the likes of Sublime and The Mighty Mighty Bosstones. But if one asks a true authority (any high school punk with a gui­tar. trying to start a band) who his idols arc, he's bound to mention the grandfathers of ska-punk. Operation Ivy. The band's most obvious influence is the Clash ­specifically the Clash that experimented with Jamaican ska and reggae rythms in their punk songs. Operation Ivy took the cue from its heroes and forged a raw, hon­est sound that became the beginnings of the currently popular ska-punk genre that includes bands like Buck-0-Nine and Less Than Jake. But more importantly, the band was instrumental in opening the door for the third wave of ska in general, and bands everywhere from Reel Big Fish to No Doubt have them to thank for their current popularity. Having thus emphasized its historical importance enough, it must be said that Operation Ivy is probably the worst band ever to sound so irresistibly good. If lis­teners are looking for incredible vocals (or even good ones) or technical virtuosity, they shouldn't come any­where near Operation Ivy. But of course, that's not what punk is about. Punk is about raw energy, and in Operation Ivy's case, fun. The band somehow manages to blend the awful voices of Jesse Michaels and Tim Armstrong with garage­quality guitar distortion and a simplistic rhythm sec­tion in a way that results in pure artistic genius. 

Who can listen to "Sound System" without getting up to shank while counting a blessing for the release that music (especially punk music) offers? Or who can hear the anthem "Unity" without screaming along with the lyrics that demand without a hint of irony that humans stop making war? What about listening to the opening saxaphone lick to "Bad Town" without reaching over to crank up the stereo? 
Unfortunately, the band's earner was frustratingly short, and in the end they could claim only one album's worth of material. But in some ways this adds to Operation Ivy's appeal -they strolled on the scene. carelessly and unintentionally tranformed punk, ska and rock music, and promptly disbanded before they had a chance to screw it up. Everyone should be grate­ful. 
Jim Kelly 


If the sound of Blur has fallen out of' memory, think back to 1997, when their hit single "Song 2" was popular and people everywhere were singing along, "Woo-hoo!" With their latest release 13, Blur again manages a graceful balance between approachable pop crafts­manship and artistic sophistication. Tlw band's music is informed by just enough talent, experimentalism and off-color songwriting to satisfy those fans who are easi­ly turned off by shallow pop music. '·Tender," the album's first and best song, is immedi­ately likable -the vnrscs contain a John Lennon­inspired m1~lody and the catchy chorus sounds like Lou Reed doing gospel. As a whole, the song sounds like the serendipitous result of the Beatles collaborating with Beck. The rest of the album is a tour of several different styles; the numbers range from excessively distorted, guitar-driven rock songs to David Bowie and lo-Ii in11u­enced pieces, to darker ballads, to unstructured, spacey and experimental excursions. One consistent feature of 13 is its great rhythm. Several songs have the kind of groove that gets inside of' one's consciousness and infects it. The best of these is "Trailerpark," a bluesy hip-hop gem that draws heavily from Iggy Pop. Even when the album's abun­dant filler starts becoming tedious, one -can usually count on the rhythm section to keep things slightly interesting. 
In general, B is probably best described as really great background music. Perhaps this qualification is a result of songs that arc made too long by their drawn out, gobhledy-studio-gook beginnings and nndings. But when Blur does turn it on, listen up because they haw a unique sou1id that pervades this album, l'rom its punk rockers to its more somber ballads. 
Jim Kelly 

In 1997, through a handful of cameos, remixes and assorted guest appearances, Scan "Puffy" Combs introduced the hip-hop world to unknown street rapper Mase Murder, and transformed him into a rap superstar in vf"ry little time. After two· years, a multi-platinum debut album (Harlem World) and a record label (All Out Records), Mase is doing sume introducing of his own, hoping for the same result. And the first aci on his new roster is a group called Harlem World, foaturing, among others, Mase's twin sister Stase and younger brother Blinky-Blink with their debut, The Movement. Executive producer Mase, who isn't foaturnd on too many cuts, remains true to his hip-pop image and sup­plies plenty of party hits on The Movement, such as "Crew of the Year" and "One Big Fiesta." The first sin­gle and Mase's debut production, "I Really Like It," foa­lurcs New Edition·s "Popcorn Love" sample a la "Can't Nobody Hold Me Down" from two years ago. If it ain't broke, then keep making money off it. In addition to hyping the crowd, Harlem World pro\'es it can get gritty as well on such cuts as "Meaning of Family," "Family Crisis" and "Pointing Fingers," a track in which each member of the clique gets to politely harass the others. On other tracks, however, such as "Across the Border," the rhymes sound corny and immature, and by the end of it all one might ask why the track was ever made. 
While The Movement doesn't captivate with mind­blowing lyrics or speaker-blowing beats, it is an enter­taining album. Stase and Blink do their best to keep up with big brother's status, but all they share with him right now is a last name. With a little work, though, Harlem World just could be the "crew of the year." 
Chris Ra1nos 


O
THE 

Wednesday, April 14, 1999 ---------------------page 15
BSERVER 

COMCIBT 81YIIW 
Mar§alis disappoints al jaz::z perforanance 
Lasl Wednesday night South Bend was treated to a rare performance by one of' jazz's most nmuw11nd and innovative yuung leaders, Branford Marsalis. Son of ll\g1•mlary pianist Fllis Marsalis, Branford studied with jazz greats Way,w Sliorwr ,rnd Sonny Hollins, pcr!'ormcd in morn cormncrcial roles as tlw Tonight Show hand lt!a<inr and has performed with numerous musicians of strong rnlilwr in his short hut stori<id histor}'. Taking the stage at Notre Dame's cavurnous StHpan Cnntnr, Marsalis and his currnnt band of' pianist .Joey Caldcrazo, upright bassist 1•:ric l!(wis and percussionist Jnff Walts guided the 1n11sir. through a number or genres \Vit.h consnrvati\'e poise. While Bra11ford is notorious ftir tndmical oxcnlluncc, which he curtainly tl0Jiv­1•rcd, tlw hand had ynt to cohPse into a light working unit. On numnrous occa­sions, Marsalis rallwr disturbingly isstwd Caldcrazo pep talks in the middle ol' his solos, and on too many occasions Im cmnpletoly disappearnd from the stage. Marsalis' tnnd1mcy toward visual distraction tainted the energy of the music throughout thP night and it gn11or,dly appnanid unprol'essional. SollH' of this is forgivable. as tlw ba11d is trying to recover from the loss of Kenny Kirkland, Branl'ord's bnst f'rinnd and pianist. who died last year as the result ol' a drug ovl'niosc. Tlw tivPning indud«-cl a Kirkland piece, kBepi11g his spirit and 111usi('. aliVl'. Branford vvailml smooth nwlodins throughout the night, with some glorious 11wlodil' phrasing on tlw suprano ov1ff sparse and plaintive tnxturns along with robust l<'nor lirws. chromatirnlly lurd1ing through the melodies. Many or their cad1•m·.1•s l'Patt11·,•d inwnse rhythmic 11xclamations. signs that the band is begin­ning to gl'I. Tlwir lwst grooVt\ nun11 fro111 tlH'ir l'inal piecn, wlwrn they displayed some impn~ssivP riffing and nx«-ha11g(1s ovPr four-four swing, calypso and funk ­switching df'ort!Pssly lwtWP<m them all. Watts' excellnnt sense o[' dynamics and The Observer/Kavin Dalum widP array of' styll's mad!' tlw quarll'l 's versatility most apparent. Throughout the Jazz star Branford Marsalis jammed the night away last Wednesday at Stepan Center. night, his rim shots, mallet work and brushing proved equally effective. Again, Marsalis came to Notre Dame as part of the Collegiate Jazz Festival. i11w ol' tlw night's strang<ist 11101111mls rnnw wlwn Marsalis pulled up next to Watts and qui,·kly insligatPd a hurriblP misfirP from Watts, as Im fumblingly dropped the 
absence from the mix combined with Calderazo's active and thick gestures com­

lll'al. 
plicated the sound significantly, leaving it with lr,ss punch than it deservnd.

TIH' ·main proult•m with tlw co11c:1iri.:was its lack ol' continuity. Uranford often 
All things considered, tlrn show was not bad for Stnpan Ccntor, the eighth won­

plar•cl thP lw11cl and tlwn imnwdiatnly walkPd off tlw stagli, and limitPd impro­der of acoustic nightmares. As usual at Stepan CentBr concerts, the show took a
visatory inU•rn1·1io11, making tlw format 1m1c!J too µrndictable. \Vhile he and his 
l'cw Cagcan turns with someone buying a Coke and getting change along with aplayPrs n•rtainly have tlw chops to solo endh\ssly, thnre is no need to actually do nicely timed phone call (which Branford playfully answered from the stage), boththat.. Mornov!\r, Caldcrazo too many times pluyncl virtually intnrchungeable piano of which destroyed two of the group's most intimate and thoughtful passages.

solos, in a wrntktir and watl'rnd down genera-jazz version or Chick Corea that was Unfortunately, too many blunders left much to be desired on that jazzl'ul night at too pm1ctual and punchy nwtrically. llis most accessible and sincern sounds came 
Stepan.

in spars,, and nrnlndir mom1ints wlwrn his chordal trixturns Wllre nuanced and flH'\ISl'cl. Bassist Lric HPvis was furtlwr back in the mix than he was nn stag(!, an unfortu­llilll' hlund,•r on tlw part of the hous1i sound 11ngineer. llis soloing was ample and 
Joel Cummins 

P11gagi11g, yPt lw l'ould barPly lw lward owr a pianissimo riveted ridn cymbal; he was rnmplf'tnly buriml onn' tlw grnup dynamic readied mezzof"ortr,. Hevis' rrnar 


RMANCES 
.. ' 

THE BUTTERFLY EFFECT DO( BROWN . JljSTI .-.._> , -..·.. ­
. .· •· ,,;:;__ ·~y----\,~-··.. ··,., 
THE FLORIDA EVANS SHOW.~A,:~ID -JOSH c.·ERJ..0FF AND REVUE J.OtrlN, rl·lJ.STON 
FUNK HARMONY PARK GHR1$··-··' -_. l PA • HOTEL PRATI ­LETTER 8 LAZY Ak~·cwtf~:, .
: .. --: ·_ ,"'·'.· '.'. .::=:+;~~f-::·• ·:-:.: ':•;
TH E -M E.77E0RS''"h ­
·-:. ,;;· . -.,. ·­
SARCASTJI< ~t.TE SEXUAL CHOCOLATE 
..-.e.~.a,.ve. .fre.& --t-at\trt
•
WHO'S YO' DADDY?. 
-Att .Ate~ ~e'ftt. 

l':'"r"i ..,..,.., .· f'T,......-.., r.~., 
page 16 The Observer• SPORTS Wednesday, April 14, l999 
¦ NHL 
Hockey's 'greatest player' contemplates retirement 
Associated Press 
Will 1999 be it for No.. 99'' Only Wayne Gretzky knows for sure, and hfl isn't saying. 
Speculation about the possible retirement of lwekey's greatest player has given the final days of the regular season much more mC'aning than tho playoff racr could and it has hockey fans, the NIil and tlrn l'\ew York Hangers waiting anxiously. 
Walter Gretzky said his son's 111i11<l was made up. 
"I would strongly suspect that Sunday will be his final game." the elder Gretzkv told rarlio sta­tion CKGL in KitrlrnnPr, Ontario. 
•·1 haven't talhid to him µerson­allv. He's talked with his mom. but most likely he will announce a retirement. He's 38 now." 
Hie' said he asked his son last summer when he would retire. and he replied. "The day lhal l stop enjoying it is the day I'm finished." 
Mark Messier, who won four Stanley Cups v-·ith Gretzky while playing for Edmonton in the 1980s. reserved judgment. 
"Everyone else is insinuating that he ·s retiring -but every­body except the must important person, and that's himself. So we'll just wait and see the way things turn out and what Wayne himself has to say," Messier said. 
Speaking Tuesday via satellite from New York to a conference on the state of hockey in Canada, Gretzkv reminisced about the sport ·and sounded much like a 38-year-old man ready to hang up his skates. 
"Hockey has been a part of my life as Jong as I can remember," said Gretzky, who holds virtual­ly every important seoring record in hockev. "I lived it and 1 breathed it as ·a kid and as an adult. It's the only job I've ever had." 
He took no questions. 

After the Rangers' 2-1 victory over Tampa Bay on Monday night, Gretzky admitted he was thinking about retirement but had not made a decision. 
"I have 1,000 different thoughts, to be honest," Gretzky said. 
"It's time to think about it. ... All of a sudden it's become a bigger issue than I imagined," he said. "Let's see what happens over the next five or six days." 
The Rangers intend to pick up the option on Gretzky's contract
.... 
later this week, general manag­er Neil Smith said Tuesday. He also acknowledged that he hasn't tr.icd to sit down with Grctzkv to see what he was thinking, more out of resper\ than anything else. 
Smith insisted that Gretzky is an emotional player who has ups and downs and that missing the playoffs for a second straight year and being side­lined with a neck injury might have made him consider retire­ment a little more. 
"I think he is going to play." Smith said optimistically. 
Reporters who cover the Rangers said that play(•rs likP Brian Leetch and Adam Graves don't even know what Grctzkv intends to do. · 
Sam Rosen, the Rangers' play­by-play hroadcaster, said thc•re is no doubt in his mind that retirement would not have been an issue had New York made the playoffs. 
"At this moment. he probably can't soc or be optimistic that things will Ghange next year,., Rosen said. "I don't think he just wants to have another produc­tive year. He would love to have a shot at going deep in the play­offs but I don't think he sees· that." 
Newspapers in Toronto and New York have reported that Gretzkv will retire after the Rangers' season finale against Pittsburgh on Sunday. Others have reported that retirement is 50-50 at this point. 
Michael Barnett, Gretzky's agent, did not immediately return a telephone call left at his Riverside, Calif., office by The Associated Press on Tuesday. 
The New York Post cited what 
it described as "unimpeachable 
sources in whom The Great One 
has confided" in reporting on 
Tuesday that Gretzky will retire. 
"He has made up his mind, but he has had his reasons for not wanting to make an announcement," the Post quoted an unidentified person it described as having knowledge of the retirement decision as saying. "But it's done. He is not coming back." 
The Toronto Sun also report­ed Gretzky would retire, saying · the only way he would revise his decision to quit would be if his wife, Janet, and Barnett urged him to step back and review his decision. 
"We'll find out soon enough," 
Hangers coach John Muckier 
said Monday. "Everybody is 
speculating, but only one person 
knows for sure." 


KRT 

Wayne Gretzky could be close to hanging up his skates for good after the Rangers' season finale Sunday. 
The Sun and ESPN quoted where I've said things to friends given Gretzky standing ovations unidentified sources as saying that get blown way out of pro­when either his picture or sta­Gretzky asked for an unusually portion. tistics were flashed on the large number of tickets for "The only thing I will say is scoreboard. In other cities, the Sunday's game, although the that I will not be one of those pregame stories hyped the con­Rangers said that he officially guys who says Tm 90 percent test with the Rangers as possibly only asked for 10 tickets. sure' or 'Maybe I'm coming being Gretzky's last game in 
John Davidson, a commenta­back.' The decision I make will that city. tor for the Rangers, said Sunday be 100 percent. No ifs, ands or It hasn't been a typical season on Fox TV that after speaking buts." for Gretzky, who missed 11 with Gretzky he believed the Fans at Madison Square games at one point with a neck player was 80 percent sure he Garden held up signs Monday injury. He had played in 223 would retire after Sunday's night with slogans such as straight games since signing game. "Wayne Don't Go." Gretzky said with the Hangers as a free agent 
"The people very close to the fan reaction made it dillicult in 1996. Wayne ... and I m~an very close, to consider retiring. The injury was the second in feel there's a very strong possi­"I said it a hundred times that Gretzky's career involving a bility Sunday will be the last I've been here over the three disc. In 1992-93, he missed time he plays," Davidson said. years," Gretzky said. "This is the most of the season with a lower 
Gretzky responded to ques­greatest city to be an athlete in." back injury before coming back tions about Davidson's report by Fans at recent Rangers games to lead the Los Angeles Kings to saying, "There's been times in Chicago and Dallas have the Stanley Cup finals. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office. 024 South Dining Hali. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 

Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves che right 10 edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
ILOST & FOUND I ._I_Wi_A._N_T_E_o_  __.  STAYING IN SOUTH BEND FOR THE SUMMER??? Lovely five-bedroom, single family  NEW Rates Phone Cards 282 min. $20 call 258-4805  PERSONAL  Beth How was your dinner? Mine was good  
house available for sub-lease.  Mike  
Lost  1 00 CDs that were in a black  AMERICAN FLYER trains -top dol­ About a mile from campus.  Beautiful brass bed.queen size.with  Fax it fast at THE COPY SHOP in  
CaseLogic carrying case. Lost in  lar paid, call Dave at 273-9015  Safe neighborhood. Clean. Two  orthopedic mattress set and deluxe  Lafortune. FAX Sending and  
La Fortune the night of 2/26/99.  window air-conditioners.  frame.New.never used,still in plas­ Receiving: 631-FAX1  ARE YOU AN ADOPTED WHITE  
Monetary reward being ottered if  Wanted: 2 room males for 5 bed­ Washer and dryer, stove, refrige.  lic.$235  FEMALE,  
found. No questions asked.  room house on St. Peter Street.  Call 634-0562 for info.  219-862-2082  INDIANA-BORN ON JULY 14?  
Please call Brian at 4-1126 w/ any  Call Tony, 634-1694  BED 'N BREAKFAST  When you need copies ...  R.EPLY WITH YEAR AND CITY OF  
info.  REGISTRY  Furniture for sale:couch. chairs,  We're OPEN!!I  BIRTH TO 2776 CLARY TRACE,  
EARN $6K-$9K/YR EXTRA!  219-291-7153  entertainment center, beds  ROSWELL. GA 30075.  
Local Area Counselors  Call 243-2856  THE COPY SHOP  
!REWARD!  needed.Enjoy cross-cultural  LaFortune Student Center  !he FLORIDA EVANS  
Blue LL.Bean backpack lost/stolen  experiences?Support families and  HOUSE:SUMMER SUBLEASE  95-MINUTE PRE-PAID PHONE  631-COPY  showband and revue  
04101 in parking lot bit Lyons &  int'I nannies.Contact Kristen 888­ Brighi, handsome 2 BR very close  CARD ONLY $10.Send  
Momssey. 11 you have it or know  222-2966  to Mam Gate on Pokagon, AC,  cash,check,or money order to:  Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight  17 ong,nal song cd  
where it is, please follow your con­ knelson@app.childcrest.com  W&O, garage, yard, full kitchen with  Terry King  Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm  no cool reason  
science  M/W and OW, furnished. 631-8084  4028 Woodvale Dr  Sat: Noon-6:00pm  only $FIVE.  
& call 4-2900 to return ii to its owner. THANK YOU!  FOR RENT  VARSITY CLUBS OF AMERICA  South Bend, IN 46614  Sun: Noon-Midnight  available all over campus in  
··­ REDUCED FOR SUMMER!'  1 bdrm suite • sleeps 4 May 14-21 $700 or selling gradua•  TICKETS  ONE WEEK  
Large, double pocket LL. Bean  2 bdrm 2 bath upper level apt  fron week time share.  LOOKING for a great part-time job  don't miss florida evans at  
backpack w/ Pietasters patch. $50  @ College Park to sublet. Rent  For details 1-219-875-4335.  ROD STEWART 3rd  ROW  next fall? The Copy Shop in  NAZZ  this friday.  
cash reward if returned w/contents.  negotiable. Call Joann @ 634­ APRIL 14 ... 272-7233  LaFortune is now accepting STU­ 
No questions asked. cal! 634-1 061  3620  FOR SALE  I NEED GRAD TICKETS!  DENT applications for '99-'00. Only a few student postilions are avail•  Hit me baby one more time  
Walk to school  CALL KELL Y-243-8932  able so apply now,  God Bless the Great One, and all of  
Lost Glasses: black, metal,  All size homes  Tickets lo the May 25 & May 26  the Yankees!  
oval, Safilo frames; clip on  Starting at 185/monthlperson  GUITAR-Fender Electric/Acoustic,  Dave Matthews Band shows at  
sunglasses; black case.  MMMRENTALS@aol.com  cut-away body, 1 yr old.  $350 or  Giants Stadium  We going sizzler  Almost done  
If found call Paul @ 4-4765  232-2595  8/0. Includes case and stand.  for sale. Call 4-2047 it  We going sizzler ...  
Call Greg at 271-0138  interested.  

page 17 
' ' 

The Notre Dame Law School Natural Law Institute presents 
The 1999 Natural Law Lecture 
Zero Prison Growth:The Morality of Effective Crime Policy 
John Diiulio 
Professor of Politics Princeton University 
Thursday, April 15, 1999 
4 p.m. 
Notre Dame Law School Courtroom ­
page 18 
¦ NFL 
Tennessee completes move with new uniforms 
Associated Press white with a T-shaped dagger 
in the middle of a flaming cir­
NASHVILLE. Tenn cle on each side. 

The oil derrick and any ties The new look received good lo Texas are gone forever for reviews from both the Titans the Tennessee Titans. and the approximately 1,000 
which officially 
up for the first changed its nick­look. name from the Most of the Oilers in Titans hadn't seen Februarv, the new uniforms, unveiled its new and defensive colors and uni­back Anthony forms Tuesday Dorsett was 
The franchise, =m::c,==~==r-11 fans who showed 

night in the parking lot of its new 67,000-seat stadium. 
It was the final step in a move that originally began in August 1995 for a team Lhat had called Jlouston home since 1960. 
"We hope people will embrace the Titans and the new logo and the new colors," said owner Bud Adams. who spent the past few months working with NFL Properties over the completely new look. 
Running back Eddie George and three teammates mod­eled the new uniforms. which switches the team's dominant colors from Columbia blue, red and white to navy blue, white and a shade officials call "Titans" blue or a slightly darker shade of Columbia blue. 
The navy blue home jersey features the lighter blue across the top of the shoulder pads to the edge of the arms. Numbers on the top of the shoulder pads are navy blue with white trim, and the num­bers on the cliest and back are white trimmed in the lighter blue. 
Each arm has a T-shaped dagger behind a red, white and biufl, three-starred shield. 
The Titans' helmets remain 

...... 
impressed. He said the team needed the new look to go with the new stadium. · 
"H's going to be different in the league. None of the other tea,!ns ar~ going to look like us, he said. 
The uniform change is the first in 24 years for the fran­chise, and thP Titans are hop­ing for similar luck with the new look. The 1975 Oilers went 10-4 after the change following a 7-7 season. 
The last four NFL teams to rec!Rsign their uniforms responded by going to the pla-yoffs in their first season with the new look. 
The New York Jets' retro uniform approach coincided with an AFC East title last season. 
In 1997, the Denver Broncos won the Super Bowl and the Tampa Bay Buccaneers reached the play­offs for the first time in 15 years with completely revised looks. And in 1996. the Philadelphia Eagles reached the playoffs with a new wardrobe. 
The 1981 Cincinnati Bengals and the 1972 Washington Redskins also played their way into Super Bowls with different uni­forms. 

-


The Observer. SPORTS 
Wednesday, April 14, 1999 
Oyi~~::cfito drop. bid 
Dodger<sta:(l.iiim; lit.least for a
while. ; .L ill$ ....... 
,,-<; "The i>rOPQSal brought to n us, one ofm,artywe have seen, by is too preliminary and non­
his specific for :us io comment oup on," Fox and the Dodgers said day in a statement Tuesday. tely "Nonetheless; we are pro­
gressing with.our plans of 
tl3lY ill.vestment iri -:-· and limited ha: r,enov.a.ti9I1 :Pf ,--"7 ·Dodgeria· Stadium."ed · But th" .'rehovatfon of 
·.·e Dodger Stl':ldjum apparentlyd; would not _tn1!l the possibility 
ve of the t~am an getting a new stadium in the rn future. 
"As we hav() said before, this program does not resolve the Ior:t~fernLissue~ that the 
.Upd ger~.t\ ;fr Epx officials 
·· ·· s~td.irfi):i: · · ,\ "We will workJo . . aJOng~term plan toa. . ..... ... these issues, 
while re9rig!3lzing the special relationship our fans have with Dodge:r Stadium." 
Observer Sports: Welcome to the real 'Big Show.' 
CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS 
CHECK US OUT ON: rentnet.com 
• 
FURNISHED 1 AND 2 BEDROOM SPACIOUS APARTMENTS 

• 
LARGE CLOSETS 

• 
DECORATOR BLINDS ON ALL WINDOWS 

• 
TENNIS, VOLLEYBALL & BASKETBALL COURTS 

• 
WALKING DISTANCE TO NDU 


Jc.;..
• FLEXIBLE LEASES AVAILABLE 
CALL TODAY!!! (219) 272-1441 
MEMBER APARTMENT
campusview@michianatoday.com ASSOCIATION 
OF INDIANA, INC. 

Would you like to call seniors in high school who we·re recently accepted into the Notre Dome Family? Share two hours of your time! 
Help us offer our congratulations and answer any questions that these students may have! We are looking for volunteers who would like to share their experiences of life "Under the Dome." 
We will be n1aking telephone calls to students on the following dates and times: 
Sturdy April 17th 2-4 p.m. (also 4:30-6:30 p.m.) Sunday April 18th 2-4 p.m. (also 4:30-6:30 p,m.) Mon.day April 19th 6:30-8:80 p.m. 
Tuesday April 20th 6:30-8:30 p.m. Wednesday April 21st 6:30-8:30 p.m. Thursday ,4pril 2211d 6:30-8:30 p.m. Snturday A1;ril 24th 2-4 p.m. (nlrn 4:30-6:,W 11.m.) 
Let us know when you would like to help! All interested students should contact Dan McGinty (Undergraduatf' Admission!!): McGinty.5@nd.edu 


Wednesday, April 14, 1999 The Observer· SPORTS page 19 


Bookstore 
continued from page 28 
fnr lhe win." 
Buddti provr.d to be a big offensive threat, scoring eight baskets with his strong inside moves. Team 187 couldn't shut him down as he talliod 
I] rnbou11ds and three hlochd shots. 
The University of Minn(lsota Academic All-Star Team also shinod d1\l'nnsively. Using a full court prnss for much ol' the game. they forcnd Tnam 187 inlo a handful of' turnovnrs and off-balance shots. 
loam 187 responded with tnugh man-to-man dd'onse and mad!' The Univ11rsity of' 
Minnesota Academic All-Star Toam earn every shot. 
"We played really well against a great team," Fane Ila said. "They were tough to beai." 
fanella racked up five points in the winning effort. 
In one of the best pairings of the duy. No Changes, with players Aaron Yoder, Michael LaDuke, Mau McKay, Brendan Browne and Derek Smalls defeated Lake Effer.t Snow in a close game that went down to the wire, 21-18. 
The quick pace of that game was set in the first 15 seconds as the two teams quickly exclrnngud b uskets, racing up and down the court 
After the two teams settled down, Lake Effect Snow took 


The Observer/Peler Richardson 
winner.

Worst Team Ever might have proved the name correct with its first-round loss to Suck It! 
Jesse and

last Saturday, failing to advance past the preliminary round which ends today. 
control, leading at halftime by an 11-7 score. 
"We were a little slow get­ting started and getting things going in the first half," LaDuke said. "But we pulled it together in the end." 
The second half brought a different story for No Changes, as LaDuke turned up the heat offensively and scored five baskets for a total of six points in the game. McKay had a strong defensive showing, bringing down 11 rebounds and making three steals. 
Luke Effect Snow center Justin Sandberg gave No Changes trouble in the paint, tallying eight points from inside. Sandberg also proved to be a powerhouse on the boards, ending the game with 14 rebounds. Sand berg's strong play 
was not 
Pnough to pull off a win ­Smalls made a few key steals 

!ale  in  the  
gamP  and  
Browne:  hit  

some clutch shots in the final moments for tlw victo­ry. 
It was a long nl'ternoon on the basketball court for Jesse and the Hippers as they took on Mike Quig's Special Hot Lunr.h in a match up th at took almost an hour to produce a 

Bookstore Basketball XXVIII Results-to-date 
The Tradition Continues... 
Tuesday 4/13 Contests 
Chest High F'reshies defeats Goin' Sizzler (21-8) Straight No Chaser defeats Team 409 (21-15) Zelda 69 defeats Brick-Clayers (21-16) 
U. of Minn.Academic...defeats Team 187 (21-9) Whipple Effect defeats Lewinsky Cigar Dispenser (21-7) THUGS defeats Flying Buttresses (21-5) Delicious Prostitution defeats The Boxer (21-5) Fox Force Five defeats The Biological Product. .. (21-12) Team 172 defeats Hoops de Justice (21-8) Burn and Shoot defeats 5Girls Who Suck ...Again (forfeit) Komply or Perish defeats Austin Powers... (21-6) 
E.G.O. defeats Does Anybody Want to Play? (21-18) No Changes defeats Lake Effect Snow (21-18) 
"· 1\vo Words ...Suck It defeats Industrial Revolution ... (21-18) Jesse and the Rippers defeats Mike Quig's Special... (21-10) 
Taint Your Wagon defeats STUMP ... (21-11) Mc Gonegle's Kids defeats Ya Gots to Slip ll (21-15) 5 Players Just Looking to Score defeats Godspeed (21-6) WHAT defeats Jumpshotus lnterruptus (21-11) Cinco Vergas, Pants Pit ... defeats The Howard Cronin ... (21-18) Cabbages in your Face defeats Kentucky Jelly (21-16) Kluk's Dulac and his Brothaz defeats Natty's Daddies (21-2) Married Domers: ... defeats Aloe Vera (21-11) High Life defeats Sexual Voltron (21-7) Bounty Killaz defeats Dopalishus (21-10) Monica, Jack the Ripper defeats After 2 Cases ... (21-1) 
.... 

Monday 4/12 Contests 

The Under Ground deFeats Elmo Slaps Back (30-28) 
The Spitit of Inclusion defeats Makalanis Soldiers (Forfeit) 
Coco Butter defeats We've Been Getting Beat ... (21-5) 
911 defeats Fishtown University (21-2) 
Schaefer defeats Otto Roxx (21-6) In Your Dreams Team defeats We Are Playing ... (forfeit) 
Shooter McGavin defeats Coors White (22-20) 
We Have Name Spoofy ... defeats 6Panties & a Commando (21-14) Doggiestyle defeats Sweet Sassy Molassy (21-11) 
Team 45 defeats Backstreet Girls (21-5) Minot's Magnums defeats Honky Town (forfeit) Ezekiel 25: 17 defeats Mangia Qui o Porta Vina (21-9) 
Run & Shoot defeats Dey Balla's (21-11) 
Not In Our House defeats Alley Boys (21-1) 
HBI defeats The Brrrumski Ballets (21-17) 
Tubular Engineers ... defeats Where's Arnie? (21-5) 
Team 175 defeats Team Irie (21-8) 
Slubmasters defeats Team 392 (21-6) 
Four Pansies and aWali-On defeats Flying Buttresses (21-12) 
Fab Five Awesome Brothers defeats Shock the World ... (21-4) 
If We Only Had Chiz defeats Please Don't Hurt Us (21-16) 
The Shiznit defeats The Factory Workers (21-9) 
Big Ten Should Have defeats ABlumpkin from 'Iwo... (21-11) 
Ducks II: The Next Generation dereats Team 430 (21-17) 
i, 
5 
XXVIII 
the Hippers teammates Joe Mosley, Chris Padjen, Dave Hunt, Josh Bilz and Vince O'Connor had trouble coming up with baskets early on before putting the game away 21-10. 
In a game with a 13-minute scoring drought for both teams in the first half, Jessn and the Rippers used their height advantage and tough defense to finally come up with a win. 

·­
"We wcrn a little rusty," O'Connor said. "We didn't execute as well as we could have. But we got the win and we'll work on getting better for our next game." 
Mosley proved to bP thn team's go-to man, racking up 10 baskets and 5 rebounds. 
Tomorrow marks the end nf the round ol' 512 and the beginning of the round of 256 as teams continue to set their sights on the championship. 
The Obierv@r/Srott Hudy 

page 20 The Observer• SPORTS Wednesday, April 14, 1999 
¦ NFL 
Aikman rounds up $85.5 million deal from Cowboys 
Associated Press 
IRVING, Texas 

Troy Aikman once again is the highest-paid player in the NFL, rework­ing his con­tract with the 
I) a I I a s Cowboys so he'll get $85.5 million through 2007. a 

L.----~~~ 

l e a g u e Aikman source who asked to remain anonymous told The Associated Press on Tuesday. The deal includes a whopping $20 million signing bonus. Aikman already has received S 13 million and will get the remaining $7 million in early 2001. the source said. Neither Cowboys owner Jerry Jones nor Aikman's agent, Leigh Steinberg, would discuss 
the terms of the deal other than to say it gives the team much more flexibility under the 
salary cap for several years. 
"Our goal was to free up cap room so that Troy could play with a competitive team," Steinberg said. "He wants more rings on his fingers." 
Under a contract that previ­ously made Aikman pro foot­ball's salary leader, Aikman was to make $6.5 million in 1999, $7.25 million in 2000 and $8 million in 2001. The new deal drastically lowers those figures but includes a six­year extension, locking Aikman up beyond his 41 st birthday. The source did not have the annual breakdown of the new contract. 
"We have extended the cun° 
tract of Troy Aikman to the 
point where this franchise and 
our fans are sure to have him 
for the rest of his career," 
Jones said. "We are very 
pleased this agreement has 
been completed." 
Aikman has reworked his 
previous contract practically 
every season to help Dallas get 
under the cap. The Cowboys were desperate for space now because they're trying to sign several free agents and must have money left for the players they pick in the draft this weekend. 
"It had been six years since we'd last done Troy's last con­tract, and in thosP six years there had been major changes." Steinberg said. "Rarely does someone play that long on one contract." 
The deal was hammered out mostly during an all-night negotiating session late Friday through early Saturday. It was finalized Monday and announced Tuesday during a news conference that also foa­tured the signing or cenler Mark Stepnoski. a former Cowboy and a close friend to Aikman. Stepnoski was given a five-year. $10.5 million con­tract, plus a $3.5 million sign­ing bonus. Neither Aikman nor Steinberg attended the news conference. 
Aikman isn't the first mar­quee quarterback signed to more seasons than he's likely to play. Denver and San Francisco made similar deals with John Elwav and Steve Young to take· immediate advantage of a lower salary cap figure while gambling the cap eventually will go up enough to help absorb those deals. 
Two season ago, it didn't seem likely Aikman would even consider playing nine more years in Dallas. He was tired of his teammates· off-field trans­gressions and felt the fran­chise's focus on winning had waned after three Super Bowl victories. He mostly blamed 
· then-coach Barry Switzer. Switzer left after going 6-10 in 1997 and was replaced by Chan Gailey. Aikman's perfor­mance and demeanor seemed revived by the new coach and the team responded by winning its sixth NFC East title in seven years. They were ousted from the playoffs in the first round. Aikman. the first overall selection in the 1989 draft and 


University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
\[be ~otre i!lame <tborale & <tbamber C!&rrbestra 
Alexander Blachly, Director 
Music of: Bach Lassus Brahms Mozart 
8:00 p.m. 
Wed., Apr. 14 Basilica of the Sacred Heart 

, ~ 4! ,~~ ...:~...-~Ali-:-·t.<-i?f,~~­
Free & open to the public.

Hlk-'t>#t!&i::·'t<'M'l) 
, ...They can leap over 
buildings in a single 
bound. run foster 
than a speeding... 
· uhh. No, that's someone else. But they can. . . and will graduate from Notre 
Pre-Congratulations on your graduation Tl"'ent and Tine Poschal"'shy. Love from Aunt Kathy and Un<:le Walt. 

the first player picked under Jones' regime, guided Dallas' transformation from 1-1 5 to Super Bowl champions three seasons later. He's one of only three quarterbacks to lead a team to three Super Bowl victo­ries. 
"His talent and commitment will help us ultimately get back to the Super Bowl." Jones said. "That's his goal, that's what he's all about. ... Any time you have ever seen him in any form of excitement or frustration it's because or thn direction the tflam was going in his mind toward doing things to win the Super Bowl." 
Stepnoski broke into the NFL with Aikman in 1989 and they made a formidable tandem for six years. But Stepnoski signed with Houston aft.er the 1994 season, when Dallas didn't make re-signing him a priority. 
Stepnoski said Tuesday it was the right decision at the time, but things didn't turn out as he hoped. The Oilers missed the playoffs all four seasons and the team moved to Tennessee halfway through his tenure. 
"The whole emphasis on win­ning is definitely one of the key features that motivated me to come back." said Stepnoski. who is a bit undersized for a lineman at 6-foot-2, 265 pounds but makes up for it with speed and technique. 
Stepnoski's bonus will count $700,000 against the cap each season through 2003. His annual salaries are $400,000 in 1999, $1.7 million in 2000, $1.9 million in 2001, $3 million in 2002 and $3.5 million in 2003. Thnre are hefty roster bonuses payable in February or 2000-2002. 
Jones isn't done dealing, with several more signings likely before the draft begins Saturday. Topping his wish list are receiver. naghib Ismail and linebacker Quentin Coryatt. 
Dallas· negotiations with Stepnoski, Ismail and Coryatt have led to an NFL investiga­tion or possible salary cap vio­lations. Whistleblowers say the Cowboys agreed to terms with all three players, but couldn't finalize them until clearing room under the salary cap. The team reportedly had about $400,000 before reworking Aikman·s contract. 


1999 Hammerin' Irish Summer Blitz Build 

lntel'QSt~ in Volunteering this summer? 
Notre Dame Habitat for Humanity will be building houses in the South Bend area from Sunday, June 20th to Friday, June 25th and we need YOUR HELP to make this build possible. We will be working side by side with Notre Dame Alumni and South Bend residents to build FIVE HOUSES IN ONE WEEK! This will truly be an exciting event! The cost for this event is $120, which includes room, board, and materials. If you are interested in participating or would like more information, please call the ND Habitat office at 1-3066 and leave your name and number. 

r 
Wednesday, April 14, 1999 

0-Line 
continued from page 28 
.. Th I' re~ 'S a IO t Of S kiIi a II d IPl'ltniquP inclt1clt>d in both !pass blocking a11d run block­ing!. Pass protndion is a little hit 11u1r1• ol' an unnatural thing lo do so it takPs rnon• tinlf' lo IPilch." lw said. 
l>aviP Pl'ho('(l his sPnlinwnts, staling "i\nytinw you lrnv1' voul h v11u' rt• roncc!'ll!'d partic­~1 I a r I y· in pass proti•ction ­that's always tlw Loughnsl thing !cir ym111g guys to !Parn." 
ThP tr111• !Psi. !'or llw li1wnwn will rnnw during livn gamP sit­ualious in front of 80,000-plus snnaming fans, but for now. Borlwrly said llw most impor­tant thing is lo work together as a unit anrl learn Urn intricatn blocking schemes. 
Borlwly said that tlwrn aro lalPntnd playPrs hf're that can make u conLribution in tlrn fall and lie has seen Lhe improve­nwnt of tlwm this spring. 
"I think we've gotten hcttnr 1•very day -thal's the goal right now." the scicond-year coach said. "We'rn really try­ing hard to l'ocus on different guys and the things we need to work with tlw on. I think wu'rn b1\lter touay than we were Saturday at tlw scrimmage. llopdully that will continun throughout the spring." . 

The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
¦ WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
Vandy snaps Irish win streak 
Special to The Observer Sophomore Laci gonn in the gamn but thn 
()'Shaughnessy led the Irish Commodores outscored thl\ 

The Notre Dame women's with five goals and two assists Irish (1-l in the final 8: 1 0 of lacrosse team foll behind 10-2 f'nr sev~n points. Senior cap­Uw first half to build a 10-2 at half'timf' and could not tain Kerry Callahan. ncttod a half'timc lead. Af'tn r f'alli ng recover as 19th-ranked pair of goals to extend hnr bnhind 14-4 in thn SIH'.OJJ(f Vandorhilt endod a fivn-ganrn scoring streak to 2!i games. hall'. Notre Danw got as dose winning strnak for the Irish Sophomore goalie Carrie us 15-8 with 6.15 lcl't in tlw 18-9 on Tu1isday. Marshall madn 15 saves for second half but could gnt no 
Notre Dumc falls to 8-:~ with the Irish. closer. the loss, while Vanderbilt Kinsey Osberg slung lhe Vanderbilt outshot Notre improvei. to 3-7. The Irish Irish with snvnn goals and Danrn just 42-:~2 hut t.lw Irish rnturn to action on Friday. throe assists f'or a game-high madn 29 turnovers to just 17 ,,., h1in second-ran kcc.1 Du kn 10 points. f'or tlin Comm1Hfor1!s. Notrt> trav<'ls to N11trn Damn for a 4 The Commodorns IPcl just 4-Dami' r.oll1ictnd 28 ground­
p.m. gamn. 1 aftnr mon• than 21 minutes balls to YandPrhilt's 23. 

Senior WeeL. ScLedule 1999 
PIUD4~. -.~ffH-BAR-B-QUI@ IINIOR BAB WITH CAJiAPUI BA.MDI 
/4TUIJD4~. -.~ITH-TAITE OF CHIC.AGO: ll-'1 PJ,A -BUIE/ LEAVING FROJiA ITEPAM C.EMTER AND IIMIORI ARE DROPPED OFF TO IXPERIIMCI THI "WINDY C.ITY" IUMD4Y, -.y 9TH-C.OLLEGE FOOTBALlc HALL OF FAJiAI-FREE AD~IIIIOM FOR THI FIRIT 50 IINIORI 
GALAXY ROLLER RINlt-FJJIE /RATING DIMMER AT BW3'I-FRIE WING MIGHT ~OMD4~. JA-4~ lOTH-IIlt FLAG/ /GREAT A~ERIC.A: U-'1 PM, BU/El LEAVING FRO~ ITIPAM CENTER 
TUIID4~. JA-4~ 11TH-IOUTH BIND /ILVIRHAWltl BAIEBALL GAME WITH PRE-GAJiAI PARTY /TARTING AT 6 PJ,A WIDMIID4Y. JA-4~ l2TH-IEMIOR FORJiAAL@ THE CENTURY C.IMTIR -C.OME WITH FRIENDI TO THE FINAL IEMIOR DAMC.E 
THUIJrDAY, JA-4~ OTH-LAfT TRIP TO CROTTO-BEGIN/ AT THE /ACRID HEART B.AIILICA CONCLUDING WITH A CANDLE LIGHTING CEREMONY AT THI GROTTO 
More details lo come on limes. 
TIC.ltftl MOW OM l4U4T u.roaruMIIMfO. DI/It roa THI fOUOWIMGa TAITE OF CHICAGO-$l0 tilt l'LAGI /GREAT AJiAIRICA-$30 IILVIRHAWitl-$5 IIMIOR l'ORJ.\AL-$lO OR $l5 AT THI DOOR 

... 


.. 


.. 
Mr. Warren Littrel Foreign Service Officer 
will speak on 
CAREERS IN THE STATE DEPARTMENT 
Topics will include: Preparing for the Foreign Service Exam Workingman embassy lntcrnshi ps Fellowship & scholarship opportunities And much more on 
WEDNESDAY APRIL 14, 1999 
4:30 P.M. HESBURGH CENTER AUDITORIUM 
(Located in the Hesburgh Center for Internat1onal Studies) 
This presentation is sponsored by Career & Placement Services. the Department ofGovernment & International Studies and the Kellogg Institute. 

THE NOTRE DAME CENTER 
FOR PASTORAL LITURGY 
ANNOUNCES 
The Mark Searle Lecture in Liturgy 
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 14, 1999 8:00PM CST 
CENTER FOR CONTINUWG EDUCATION UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
GILBERT OSTDIEK, OFM 
"THE NEW LECTIONARY: FROM OBSTACLE TO OPPORTUNITY" 
The Observer • 
The Center for Philosophy of Religion 

presents 

Jozef Zycinski Archbishop of Lublin, Poland 
Widely known for his work on issues of religion and science, Archbishop Zycinski will give a lecture entitled 
Faith and Reason in Fides et Ratio 
Thursday, April 15, 1999 Hesburgh Library Auditorium 2:30 PM 
SPORTS 
M.Lax 
continued from page 28 
(Md.) strong before losing 10-8 and jumped out to a four-goal lead against No. 6 Georgetown. Against Hofstra the Irish fell behind early before rallying to send the game to overtime. 
The Irish are searching for a way to play strong for the entire game as they prepare for a possible tourna­ment bid. 
"We have played extremely well at times," Corrigan said. "But we haven't played 60 solid minutes from beginning to end in one game. We have a number of guys who are freshmen and sophomores playing for us, but at this point, that isn't an excuse. 
"We are nine games into the yrrnr so they are no longer young play­ers," he said. "I think it is time for us to put together a full game and I think we are capable of doing it." 
The offense has been especially inconsistent, sroring goals in bunch­es and then going for long periods of time without even a quality shot. 
"The key for us is to hav11 good possessions," Corrigan said. "I don't worrv about how and when the goals· come as m ur,h as what our possessions are like. We have to sustain quality possessions over 60 minutes. We have had poor posses­sions because we are settling for average opportunities instead of being more selective and wanting an excellent opportunity every time we have the ball on the offensive end." 
Despite the pressure of the final 
four games and the frustration of 
tough losses, the Irish are not ready 
to panic. 
Wednesday, April 14, 1999 
"There is no need for tho toam to be in any kind of panic," Corrigan said. "We've lost four games -all close games, all games we could have won -to four teams in tho top 10 right now." 
When the Irish travel to Columbus, Ohio, they will face a Buckeye team that will try the patience of the Notre Dame defense. The defense will have to remain patient and not allow the slow style of the Buckeyes' play to frustrate them. 
"We can't get overanxious and try to create turnovers that arcn 't there," Corrigan said. "We have to be patient and smart without losing our aggrHssiveness. That's not always an easy thing to do." 
Tim Irish offense will be facing a Buckeye defcnso that has thrown a different game plan at every team they have faced. This Buckeye strat­egy has led to great success. They lead thn GWLL with a 10.2 goals per game avnrage. They did, however, give up 21 goals in a 21-0 loss to Virginia 
If the Irish step up and make plays against th11 Buckeyes, they should return to campus with a 6-4 rncord and a 4-0 record in the GWLL. 
"It's not a mattor of playing well," Corrigan said. "We arc playing real­ly well. We have to not only play well. w11 have to make plays in order to win games. 
"Ir we don't get excited and we rais11 the lnvel we am playing at on a daily basis and sustain it for 60 minutes, wo will be successful." he added. "Tlrnsc are little things -lit­tle adjustments we are making. We are not reinventing the wheel. We are just looking to find those extra plays, eliminate those mental errors, and I think we will be where we need to be if we can do that." 

.-...... 
Wednesday, April 14, 1999 The Observer • SPORTS page 23 
¦ NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
...
Police arrest UConn's El-Amin for drug possession 
Assoda1cd Press 
IIAHTFOBD, Conn. 

Khalid El-i\min, who helped Connecticut win its first national championship just 15 days ago, was arresled Tuesday and chargp,d with pos:rnssion of marijuana. 
Thn sophomorn point guard was in a car when Im was arrnstcd and charged with possnssion ol' less than l'our ouncns of' marijuana, police said. lie was also charged with 11 minor traffic infraction. 
Anotlwr UConn star, junior Hichard llamilton, was with Fl-Amin when he was arrnst­t\d, said l.l. MikP Manzi,-a policn spok(isman. 
ll11milto11, a first-loam /\II-
America, was not charged. But 
members of the Statewide 
Narcotics Task Force, who 
made the arrest, impounded 
the late-model red Cadillac· the 
playnrs wern in. 
El-Amin was hustled out of a police substation in the city's North End, just aftnr 6 p.m., and taken to the main police station whern he was booked and released on a written promise to appear in Hartford Community Court later this month. 
/\bout a dozen teen-agers had gathered at the substation on news of the arrest. They cheered as El-Amin eluded reporters and dived into the backseat of the waiting cruis­er. 

Richard Johnson, an attor­ney who represented El-Amif-1 at the booking, said the player would have no comment. 
Tim Tolokan, UConn's sports information director, said the school had no knowledge of the arrest, and no further comment. 
El-Amin, a 5-foot-10 point guard, led the lluskies (36-2) to a 77-74 victory over top ranked Duke in the national championship game on March 
29. It was the school's first trip to the Final Four. 
El-Amin announced last week that he would return to UConn l'or his junior season rather than make himself eli­gible for the NBA draft. 
He has started 71 games and 
Homes for Rent 


• 
Domus Properties has two, five, six and nine bedroom student housing available 

• 
Student neighborhoods close to campus 

• 
Security systems provided 

• 
Well maintained homes 


• 
Maintenance staff on call 


., Available for the 199?12000 school year 
' Ir 

Contact Kramer (219) 276-7020 or (219) 674-2571 or (219) 233-4509 

became the third 
UConn player lo 
score 1,000 
points as a 
sophomore. 
For the past 
two seasons, he 
has averaged 
14.9 points and 
4.1 assists. He finished was sec­ond in scoring this season at 
13.8 points and led the team in assists with 140. 
El-Amin was voted to tho Final Four all­tournament team after scoring 30 points and hand­ing out 10 assists in the wins over Ohio State and 

-
Duke. 
El-Amin's arrest came one day after M j n n e a p o I j s Photo courtesy ol Connecticut Sports lnfomiation N h H · h Khalid El-Amin, the point guard who helped UConn 
ort ig win its first national championship 15 days ago, SMc~rnol i11 was arrested for marijuana possession Tuesday. 
1nnesota 
retired his jersey. El-Amin three consecutive state high graduated from North in 1997 school basketball cham pi­after leading the Polars to onships. 
Someone once said,"There is no such tiling/as afree lunch.11
1'---.,,r ,
;,·..-... ·: _.. : • : ..:• ·•.·; ~ \•f;f,,i '//.-'.:.... 
~-4::,t;{.: , · 1~\0ii£F 
.__,<,~ ~ ~ 
· · we disagree. · 
Froo food Frett i'O's ffoo Books froo Elttctronlcs Frett VldeOli froo i\Jrllntt llckuts 
,1 k If you can answer some questions r and surf the 'Neb, it's just a click away 
jwww.memolink.com• GET FREE STIJFF. NOW• 

The Movie Festival continues ! 

Babette's Feast 
ACADEMY AWARD WINNER -Best Foreign Language Film -1987 
A superb French Chefliving an anonymous life among a pious congregation on the desolate 
coast ofDenmark. As housekeeper and cook to two elderly, religious women, shes· never called 
upon to prepare anything more exciting that the traditional boiled coqfish and ale-bread soup. Until¦ 
one day she wins J0, 000 francs and decides to spend it all by creating the most memorable, mouth­: watering, magnificent meal ever consumed -even though the simple villagers will have no idea 
: what !hey are eating .I 
. .--­
-~·}•· ... ,. :..---:
,;1$:,··;t.;,•~.,..
""' . J, "~l§tl 'J 
• . 't.':"&-'fl,:,;J
fJJU -~:-1\\'}i 
· •a 
/il/.tI
\.11',.' cJ/,,;iJ!i/t;,..u.• 
• !;i.-1.a~·-,•. 
-;fl 
;v:{Z 

Wednesday, April 14 
8pm 

in the Montgomery Theatre 
All students are welcome ! 
-

Free Movie Free Snack and Beverage 
Sponsored by the Office ofInternational Student Affairs 
Page 24 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT April 14, 1999 

Wednesday, April 14, 1999 
The Observer• SPORTS page 25 
¦ MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish look to gain momentum 

~CUTIIEREANDNANIIOIIDOORINOI 
• 
I I 
I I I 

By BRIAN KESSLER 
Sports Editor 
The 33rd-ranked Notre 
DamA's men's tennis team 
closes out the regular season today with a :~ p.m. homo dual match against 43rd-rankAd Michigan at tho Courtcny Tennis Cenl!lr. 
This will bn the final prepa­ration bel'orc next week's Big East championships in Miami, Fla. 
"We'rn definitely looking lo gain some momentum heading into the Big East," said sopho­more Matt Daly. "I think thero is definitely a rivalry there and we'll step it up for this match." 
Today's mat.ch marks tho 58th timn Urn two tPams have squared off against each other with Michigan leading tlrn all­time series a<J-18. 
The Irish, lrnwtiver, have owned the '90s. winning nine of' ihfl last 10 matches with the Wolverines and sweeping all five home matches. 
The Irish are coming off lwo consecutive victories over non­conference opponents. They 
___ .,.. ________ • ______________ _ 
I I 
• I 
I I 
I I I I I 
Dear _____ the grouch, 
There's something you should know. In the morning, you are unbelievably gMlfflPY. And that's putting it very, very nicely. 
So, because I Ike you, may I suggest you startthe day with a CROISSAN'WIOtr from BURGER KING'. It's filled with mouthwatering sausage, egg and cheese. And that should make anyone less a-anky. Even you. Ifit doesn't, then we're on to Plan 8. And you don't want to know Plan B. 
Sincerely, ______ 


THE DELICIOUS CROISSAN'WICH:  
RIGHT NOW JUST 99¢.  
The Huddle• L~rtuna Student Center  
I  
BURGER KING  I I I I  
I  
'  
It just tastes better.­ I I I  

•--•--•--------•-•••••--•----•----••---•-•--•••-•-AI 
·11w.buroerkin~.com LIMITED TIME ONLY. PRICE ANO PARTICIPATION MAY VARY. DURING BREAKFAST HOURS ONLY. 
ouml!LA".EA -COOl'OAA!lOk IIUU11 '-Hi Wf'OOAIDI,:; ~ OOJJSM lUJCSff (1 llt' ·rrJJST lASffSIITTER" TIWnlAAl< WJ llf: RE\ilSTlffI) llR;t!l!Qlli,~AHJ tllli IW_',B=­
stormed back from a 3-0 deficit against No. 47 Purdue and fol­lowed that up with a dominat­ing 6-1 win over Ball State. 
"The Purdue win was really good for us," said Daly. "We've lost a lot of close matches all season, so it folt good to finally win one, I think we've put in some extra time and it's paid ol'f'. The whole team played well against Ball State." 
Against Purdue. Notre Dame dropped the doubles point and suffered losses at No. 4 and No. 5 singles. hot staged a latn rally to defeat the Boilermakers for the ninth straight time. The Irish swept the top threr. singles matches and Andy Warford sealed the victory with a 6-1, 5-7, 7-(i (4) win at No. 6 singles. 
After securing the doubles point against Ball State, Notre Dame went on to win five sin­gles matches and cruised to an easy victory, 
No. 2 singles player Brian Patterson has been red hot of !ale. The senior captain has won l I consecutive matches and every dual match against 
ncgion IV opponents. 
Junior All-American Hyun Sachire is currently ranked second in tlrn nation in singles and boasts an imprnssive :n-7 record in 1999, 
"Hyan and Brian havn both ber,n playing really well for us," said Daly. "When you can count on lhoso two and No. 1 and No. 2 singles, it really givos the tllam a confidence boost. Brian has roally stepped up his play since we've moved outside." 
The Wolverines will try to cool off Patterson and tho Irish. Michigan is 14-1 on the suason and has won 11 straight matches. 
Matt Wright leads the way for Big Ton lnading WolVPrinns. lie is H,-9 on the snason at No. I singles. 
...
Following the Michigan match, Notre Dame will turn its attontion to tho Big East championships, which gr,L underway on April 22. The Irish will draw tho top-seed after knocking off last year's champion Miami earli11r this season. 


Which one would you choose? 
The elephants? The whales? The clean air we breathe? Maybe the choice isn't so clear. Mayb, you'd like a way 10 ktcp them all. Now rhc world's le;iding en,·ironmental groups arc working together. To find out how you can help, look for us at www.canhshare.org. 
tiappy 11 st fron1 
Mmn and ()ad-we~re 
very proud of you! 

Where did all of the year, 60???? 

THURSDAY -SATUR8AY, 
APRIL l 5-17 at 8:00 P.M. SUNDAY, APRIi.. 18 ,1t 
2:30 P.M. 
LITTLE THEATRE For ticket information 
contact the Saint Mary's 
A~TGEL 
1 ~ 284-4626. 
STJREET MSfHlO
• ... I 'to~ THE ARTS
,9 '4/1 ~Noire• (J,WII', IN 


page 26 The Observer• SPORTS Wednesday, April 14, 1999 
¦ BASEBALL 
Heilman's heat earns him third Big East pitching honors 
Special to The Ohserver pitcher-of-the-week awai·d, aftf'r recorded wins during the week Pittsburgh battPrs he facod (thrne best 63 striknouts in 60.2 innings posting two victories last week. over Detroit (6-4) and Pittsburgh strikeouts. fivP. gruundouts, one and just 39 hits and 12 walks 
Notre Dame sophomore right­lleilrnan, who shared the (4-1 ). th!l third-place tMm in, the flyout). allowed. llis team-best .176 hander Aaron lleilman earned award with St. John's sophomore Big East. His other statistics for Notre Dame players have com­opponent batting average is sec­his third Big East Conl'crcncu right-hander Keith Stamler, the week included a 2.40 EBA in bined for six Big East weekly ond-lrnst at Notre Dame in the 
15 innings, 17 strikeouts, 19 awards in 1999, second only to last nine seasons, hehind the groundouts, seven hits, three Providence (seven) among the .163 posted by David Sinncs in walks and a .137 opponent bat­league's 11 teams. The Irish and 1992. lleilman also is allowing ting average. He allowed just Friars also lead the conference just .116 opponent batting with four of 15 lead off batters to reach with four dilTernnt wP.ekly award two outs and .165 with runners base. allowed just one hil in 15 winners in 1999. on baso this season. at-bats with two outs and two Heilman previously shared Big llis 1999 averages per nine hits in 17 at bat,; with runners on East pitcher-of-the-week honors innings include 9.3 strikeouts base. on March 15 while earning the (second 011 the staff. behind Tim 
ln the midweek win over award outright on March 22. Ile Kalila's 10.Ul, 12.:1 groundnuts, Delrnit, Heilman logged eight is one of four Big East players to 1.8 walks (second on tho staff, innings v,:hile allowing four runs earn multiple awards this season, behind Scott Cavoy's 1.4) an~! a (three earned) on live hits and joining Stamlcr (two). Providence team-best 5.8 hits. I le btds the two walks. He had ni!rn striko­junior outfielder Keith lfoed (two­l 999 Irish staff with a 5.3 strikn­outs and 10 groundouts, while time player or tlm weok) and PC out-to-walk ratio. totaling 126 pitdws. freshman out!ielder Mike Scott Heilman, who led the nation 
Heilman later b11at surging (three-time rookie of the wenkl. with a 1.(,1 EHJ\ in 1998, has Pittsburgh ,,vith his fifth complete Other Notre Dame wockly lowered his career Elli\ to 2.04, 

..,.. 
game of the season and his sev­award winners in 1999 include well below the Irish record of enth straight victory. He faced freshman centfir fieldnr Stove 2.36 set by Nick Palihnich from just 25 Panthers batters in the Stanley (rookie of the week, 1959-61. llcilman's earner oppo­81-pitch outing while allowing March 15), junior shortstop nent batting average is now .188. one run that was tainted, as it Brant Ust (player of the week, llis other career numbers was set up when center fielder March 29) and junior first base­include 141 strikes, 31 walks and Stew~ Stanley misjudged a fly ball man Jeff Felker (player of the 85 hits in 127.2 innings. llis that ended up being a triple (the week, April S). The Irish have career nine-inning averages runner scored on an ensuing produced at least one award win­include 9.9 strikeouts, 2.2 walks groundout). ner during each of the past five and 6.0 hits, with a 4.6 career 
Heilman posted eight strikeouts weeks. · strik11outs-to-walk ratio. and nine groundouts while allow­Heilman is positioned for a run I I oilman and Kalita (fiO) both ing two hits and one walk, shut­at Big East pitcher-of-the-year could make a run at the Irish sin­ting down a Pittsburgh team that honors, with impressive 1999 gle-season strikeout record of came in with a .327 team batting totals including a team-best 7-1 108, set by Frank Carpin in 1958. average and was averaging 8.54 record (plus one save) in eight Heilman is on pace for 115 runs per nine innings. starts and 10 total appearances, strikeouts over 60 games while 
He retired the final nine a team-best 2.52 ERA, a team-Kalita is on pace for 109. 



Belles improved lineup keeps them on top of MIAA 
By ANGELA FOX (6-2, 6-7, 6-3), No. 5 Taylor helped carry the team to victo­was able to defeat Christy doubles played eight-game pro Spores Writer Jarrin versus Emily ry," team captain Vales said. Workes, 6-2, 3-6, and 6-1. No. sets. The No. 1 team of Vales­Brookhouse (2-6, 6-0, 3-6), At No. 4 singles, Gemmer, 1 Vales lost to Karen Lui (0-6, Knish lost to Lui-Calhoon, 6-8, 
Although Saint Mary's lost to and No. 6 Krista Eastburn ver­after winning the first set 6-3 0-6), No. 2, Knish fell to Julie while the No. 2 team of Alma College last year, the sus Amy LaGuire 16-3, 6-2). In to Megan Jnman, lost in the Calhoon (1-6, 5-7), No. 3, Kremer-Gemmer won 8-1 and Belles defeated them this year doubles the competition was second set, 4-6, but regained Kremer dropped a close one to the No ..3 team of Jarrin­6-3. improving their Michigan just as tough. her composure to win the Sharbani Roy (4-6, 6-2, 4-6} Eastburn won 8-6. Intercollegiate Athletic The No. 2 team of Kremer­third set, 6-2. and No. 5, Jarrin defeated Emi Today the Belles play Association standings to 4-1 Gem mer defeated Campbell­At No. 6 singles, Eastburn Berger (6-1, 6-4}. against conference rival Calvin on the season. Diaz in a tie breaker the first was in the same situation and After the long matches, the College at 3 p.m. 
The Belles were able to pull set 7 -6 and 7 -5 in the second off the victory due to improve­set. No. 1 Vales-Knish beat ments in the lineup. The win Sederburg-Keeler, 6-3, 6-0, was an even greater achieve­and No. 3 Jarrin-Eastburn lost ment because Alma has beat­to Brookhouse-LaGuire, 1-6, en some of the better teams in 2-6. the conference this season. Monday, Saint Mary's 
The individual single scores recorded a victory over were No. 1 Katie Vales over University of Chicago, 5-4. Kari Sederburg (4-6, 3-6), No. Saint Mary's had not defeated 
THIS WEEK KEENAN HALL PRESENTS

2 Annie Knish against Taylor them in years, and it took a Campbell (6-4, 6-3), No.-3 total team effort by the Belles Becky Kremer versus Marisol to get the win. Diaz (6-1, 7-5), No. 4 Becky "The No. 4, 5 and 6 players Gemmer versus Betsie Keeler really pulled through and 
Swing II 

Ii 
¦I Instruction available 9:30-10:30 
WOMEN'S 800KSTOAE 8ASKET8ALL PACKET PICH-UP 
Tllursdap. April 15th. 1999 at 6:30 in the Dooley room of 
Lafortune 
Tournament starts on Monday. April 19th!!!! 

......... 





Wednrnlay, April 14, 1999. The Observer• TODAY page 27 
SLURRED SPEECH DAN SuuwAN HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 

FOXTROT 
LET'S SEE ... l COULD PICK NvM9ER S, BuT I HA() THAT LAST YEAR ANI) I D11>N'T PLAY VERY WELL. 
I 

DILBERT 
CROSSWORD 
I ColJLD Go Wini LVCkY NUMBER 7, 8uT lMEN I'D 
8E 8RoADcAST1NG To EVEllY­ONE THAT [ n-too&HT I 
NEEDED Luctc:. 
•· 
-

ACROSS 
1 Relative of a gator 5 Many miles off 9 Sign of healing 13 City southeast of Honolulu 14 "Damn Yankees" girl 15 Strong will? 
18 "A New Leaf" actress/director, 1971 
1 e Hackneyed 19 Athletes need 
good ones 20Bowls 21 Victory 22 Slippery ones 23 "Deep Purple" 
singer, 1963 28 In on. with "lo" 29 Overly brainy 
sort 30 Nourished 33 Grub 34 Take another 
shot 36 Cry that stops traffic 37 Ending 
sequence 38 Kind of therapy 39 Strong-willed 
athletic type, supposedly 40 Best Actor of 1932 and 1946 43 Haunted house sounds 46 French 
pooh-bah 47 Snakes 48 lditarod runners 53Signed 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 



Life in the Fast Lane 
:.. 
Connecticut star point guard Khalid El-Amin was arrested by police yesterday for possession of marijuana.

PORTS 
p.23 

p,tge 28 
Wednesday, April 14, 1999 
¦ 

Young offense's test will come in the trenches 
By TIM CASEY "I'd like to g<·t 
Sports Writer the front set bv the end o·f 
While Jarious Jackson, his spring and start rrceivers and the hattle for the [summerJ camp starting tailback position have with that front. been the major stories of the Ilnwcvcr, that spring sPason, the most press­could change in ing issue !'or Kevin Hogcrs and the preseason his offense is the guys in the camp," Uorbely trcnrhes. said. "Part of 
After losing four starters from the key for the last year's unit, there is a lack offensive line is of experience along the line. continuity and According to head coach Bob those young Davie, there is plenty of talent­players playing ed linemen who are eager to together and see some action next fall, how­knowing how ever. each other will 
"What I see in our offonsive react in differ­line is some athletic ability," ent situations Davie said after Tuesday's against differ­practice. "We've got enough tal­ent looks." ent, it's just that we're awfully Mer an di young. We're in a footrace, try­comes into the ing to use every minute we can season as the to develop those guys." lone returning 
As of now. center John starter and will Merandi and right guard Mike act as a leader Gandy are the only two linemen of this young that have seen significant min­group. utes. According to 
Joining them on the tentative Davie, Merandi first-team linP are left tackle will not be a .Jordan Black. left guard Jim leader bv Jones and right tackle John default bu·t 

... Teasdale . rather because Matt Brenmrn, Kurt Vollers, the intangibles Jeff Roehl and Ryan Scarola he brings to the Although current senior fullback Jamie Spencer (with ball) had the luxury this season of a veteran offensive line to help punch 
have all been impressive in the squad. holes in defenses, next year's backs will be without as the Irish return only two tinemen with significant playing time. spring and look to challenge for " .I o h n tial to be a leader. He's a fiery line looked capable of creating because the run blocking is a starting spot. Offensive line Merandi, at this time last year guy, an aggressive guy and he holes for Tony Fisher and Tony more natural, whereas pass coach Dave Borbely would like was the new guy. All of a sud­has a lot of confidence because Driver to run through but had blocking techniques are learned to get his unit established by den you look up and he's the he played well last year. He some trouble in giving Jackson and developed through repeti­the end of the spring but said experience guy and he's the may have graded out as our top enough time to throw the foot-tion and practice.
he realizes that this may not be glue," Davie said. "There's no offensive lineman." hall. 

the case. question that he has the poten-In Saturday's scrimmage, the 
¦ BOOKSTORE xxvrn 

'All Stars' lead on court antics 
By KERRY SMITH Sporn Writer 

.. 
The University of Minnesota Academic All-Star Team may have looked funny with its Spandex and underwear out­
fits, but it was serious about winning its first Bookstore Basketball game Tuesday. 
Players Kevin Jones, Matt Budde, Chris Fanella, Joe Drown and Frank Helgesen took on Team 187 in a fast­paced matchup at Stepan. 
"I think the Spandex really helped our game," said Budde. "It gave us an extra feeling of confidence." 
Playing the first few min­utes of the game down a man, the University ol' Minnesota Academic All-Star Team had to hustle to keep up with its opponent. Upon the late arrival of Drown, they were at full force and secured a spot in the round of 256, win­ning 21-9. 
"The Spandex kept our muscles tight and heated," Jones said. "And the lacy underwear was ·definitely key 
sec BOOKSTORE/ page 19 

vs. Michigan 
Mj)

Today, 3 p.m. 
at Indiana
~'1 
wp
\,t~f'' 

Thursday, 3 p.m. 
GLANCE 


Borbely said that this is see 0-LINE / page 21 
¦ 'MEl\lS LACROSSE 
,@racking Buckeyes 
key to postseason 
games. We know it. Out oppo­nents know it. If we come into a game unprepared at' this
As the thermometer rises point, there is something through mid-April, so does the wrong with us." pre§sure.for the If the Irish hope 16tff-ranked men's to return to the lacrosse team as it NCAA tournament enters the final for the eighth time four games of the in 10 seasons, they 
.. season. will have to defeat 
tt}~,~Ir!:o~;a~; ~ ~~i~;i!~t~:~<!;?t}!' losing str.eak after Buckeyes, their 4­lo~~ng f9fthef.lrst O record in the 
tiin"e at-home all.._________.,___, Great Western ,;{le~~QA ~gah1ft G~9rgefown Lacrosse League should lock a lastSattirday. The Jrish must bid in the NCM tournament. put those losses behind them In order to be sure or a bid, ::andfocus,ontheir critical last however, the Irish must also four ga.rnes, according to head play strong in all their games. 
.·. qom;h KeVin Corrlgan. · ."We need to win this game/' "We have lo be ready," Corrigan said. "It certainly i;,,Cf-1,f,fi~,n,..tiaiq,, ''We.,!:iave Jqur puts us in the driver's sec1,t for 
·games' Jtift and w6 have to a bid but we stiJJ have to win focus for an four. of them. some games."
There is .no e.x:cuse .}'Vhatsoev. The Irish have been plagued er for not being focused for by inconsistency all year. They Ltheilast(our gamesQfthe sea• have played No. 1 Loyola 
son. Everything in our year is 
see M.LAX / page 22 
. fi~Jpg pr,. tl,~~e last. four 
Baseball
at Ohio Seate 
vs. Cleveland Stare 
$t
Today, 3:30 p:m. 
~ Today, 5 p.m. 
vs. Duke Softball · Friday, 4 p.m. ~ vs. Calvin College Thursday, 3:30 p.m. 




