---~---------------------·----:--:-------------------~ 
Takr a brrak 
Friday
¦ Four Mexican gang members were arrested 
¦ The Observer wishes you a safe and happy spring 
Thursday for kidnapping the father of soccer 
break. We will next publish on Tuesday, Feb. 16. 
MARCH 5,
srar Jorge Campos. 
World & Nation • 5 
1999 

THE 


The Independent New,'tpaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXI I NO. 103 
Dole, Philbin to receive degrees 
ND will confer JO honorary 
degrees at graduation 
Sped.ii io The Observer 
Nino dislin){uisllt'd li){urns in tlw Ch II re-h, Pd uration, law, husitwss ancl broadcasting will joi11 principal spnakPr Elizalwth 
IJ11i1' as hon­orary dPgrPP rPt'ipii-nts al Notri· llam1•·s 
I!i-ltli com­m 1• fl c !'fl!!! 11 l f' X (' r (' i S I' S May I<i. 
I) t• g r !' ,. s 

will lw rnn-Dole 
f<'rn·d on so1111• 1,800 1111dPrgrad11al1\ and !i!iO advancl'd dPgrPt! candi­dalf'S in cNPmoniPs beginning al :l fl.Ill. i11 tlw Joyni Cnntcr. 
Doh• -l11rn1Prly prPsidrnl ol' till' t\.111,,riran HPcl Cross and a Cahi1wl nwmlwr in tlw Beagan and Bush administrations ­will rPcPivf' an honorary doctor of laws cltigrl'P. · 
Otlwr honorary dPgrt'l' rncipi­1·11ts arP: 
Aaron Fnwrstein (doctor of laws) -t\.s llll' prnsidlrnt and clli(•r l!Xt'CllliVP of'ficPr of' Maldt'll Mills Industries of 
I.a wrPnrP. Mass., FP twrstli in ri•r(dY1\d national acclaim in i<>IJS wlwn lw continuPd to pay his PrnployPPS whilr rPbuilding llrn company after a f'irn dostroyed thrno of' tho compa­ny's rnntury-old buildings. Malden Mills, which producC1s l'olartnc fal.Jri1:s, has annual salPs of' $400 million. 
Bobcrt.o Gutierrez (doctor or laws! -Tho president and coroundor of tlui lfispanic Tchicommunicalions Ndwork tllTN). Cuti1\rrnz has lrnnn involvl'll in communications and rnligious programming ror lwo clt11:ades. If,, is nxnn,tivn producnr of the wodly tnlovi­sion sories "Nuoslra Familia" and host of th1• Our Family tdP­vision Sl'rins Sl'Pll weekly 1111 tlw Odvssnv Channd. 
l1atrfck Mc.Carlan (doctor or laws) -t\. Notrn Damn truslnn sim·1• 1989, Mccartan is man­aging partner of .Jones, Day. Heavis ~ Pogue. an internation­al law firm with 20 offices locatl'd through out lhn world. lln earn«'d his bachelor's lfog:rnn from the University in 1956 and his LL.B. from the NotrP Dame Law School in 1%9. 
Gabrielle Kirk McDonald 
{doctor of laws) -.Judge McDonald is prnsidllnt of' thH International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. A native of St. Paul. Minn .. slrn was grnduatHd first in her class at thn Howard University School or Law and was ttw li,;st African-American woman to snrvn as a federal district court judge in TPxas. 
Ikgis Philbin (doctor of laws} -A 1953 gradualn of Notre Damn, Philbin is a 35-ynar vnt-
Two profs given Fulbright awards 
Spc, ial 10 The 01,,crwr 
Two UnivPrsity of' Notn• Danw l'aniltv 111P111lwrs have rncnivPd grants f"rom tlw Fulbright Sd111lar l'rogram lo l1•durn and sl.udy ,throad this yPar. 
llavid l.odgP, associall' pro­li•ssor of biological scip11cc•s. is in 1-:t\llYa this SP!llnstnr study­ing tlH; p1•olo){ical impact o(a 111111i1HligP11011:-. crayfish nn naliv" KP11ynn l'ri•shwut,•r comm1111ilil's llis research is !wing C'o1Hl11dPd in assol'ialion with thP Univ1•rsity or Nairohi and K<'nya Mndical Jlpsnarch lnstitul!•. 
Barbara MrCr,~a. a visiting: sdwlar i11 Nolrt• Dat11('S Kroc lnstitull• !'or lntPrnational 1'1•ac1· Studit-s. n,ccivt•cl a grant to ll't'lll!'I' through July on rompara(ivl' politics at Tar111 llnivPrsily in Estonia. 
In addition. Fulhrighl Visiting: Srholars grants havn !wm1 awardnd to lwo dwmists Lo conduct rns,•arrh at Notre Dame during the current aca­
demit'. yc-ar. 
rvlart•k Sikorski. a l'aculty nwmlH\r at thn UnivPrsity of Adam Mickinwicz in Poznan, Poland, is studying the photo­physics and photodwmistry on lhioketones and alloxazines on solid support. lie is working in conjunction with .I. Kerry Thomas. Julius t\. Ni(!UWland l'rufossor of' SciPnct~ at Notre Danw. 
Ezequinl Wolca.11. assistant prol'cssor or chemistry al the University or La Plata in La Plata. Argentina, will ~onduct nisnarrh at tlw Hacliation Hcs1iarch Building at Notre Damn l'rorn April to .July. Ile is working in association with Guilltmno Fnrraudi. a prnfes­sional sp11cialist in llw lab. 
Established in 1946, the Fulbright Scholar Program is sponsorod and f'und,~d by llrn 
U.S. Information t\.gency, with additional l"unding providml by llin participating governments and host institutions in the United States and abroad. 
nran or the broadcasting indus­try and Urn popular cohosl of tlrn nationally _______ 
syndicatnd Wlevision talk show. "LivP! With Hcgis & Kath in Lee." His conlribu­lions lo Notre 
Damo and 
South BPnd 

Philbin

include host­
ing an annual fund-raising broadcast on behalf' of tlrn C,rnter for tho llomelnss. 
Cornelius Pings (doctor of' engincwring) -Pings is prnsi­d11 11 l e m c r itu s of the /\ssociation of t\.rnerican Univrrsities and an indepen­dent highnr education director and consultant. Ile served on the racultics and administra­tions of llHi University of SouthPrn California and the Calil'ornia Institute of Tnchnolngy for 34 years and was elected in 1981 to the National Academy of Engilrn11ring. 
Sister Kathleen Ross (doctor of' laws) -/\s founding presi­dent of Heritage College in Toppenish, Wash., Sister Kathlnnn has led thH liberal arts institution from an enroll­ment of 85 in 1982 to more than 1, l 00 today. She holds advanced degrees in non­Western history and cross-cul­tural studies and has servnd since 1975 as a consultant for 
see HONOREES/ page 4 
WWW. N D.EDU/-OBSERVER 
Former Speaker coming to ND 

By MAGGY TINUCCI he left." said Hieck. As~istant News Editor Gingrich will discuss issutlS such as the natural world, 
Newt Gingrich, f'ormer the biological revolution's Speaker of the Houso and impact on health, American former Republican rcprcsen• politics, the challtmgo of' tht) tatlve from Georgia, will military, terrorism and 
focus  on  the  
r:hallenges  
and  oppor­ 
tunities pre­ ,  G(NGR(CH IS A FRESH  
sented  by 
the informa- FACE OUT OF POU­ 
tion age and  TICS AND WILL HAVE A LOT  
the  global  , 
world in his  TO SAY.  
speech April  
13 in Stepan Center. "Gingrich  ADAM RIECK SUB IDEAS AND  
is  a  fresh  ISSUES COMMISSIONER  
face  out  of  
politics and  

internation­al crime th mats. 
Gingrich is best known as chief archi­tect of the Htl publican "Contract w i t h Anrnrica" in 1994. He served as a congress­man from 

will have a lot lo say about Georgia from 1978-99 and tho House of Representatives speaker of thn house from and why he left," said Adam 1995-99. Rieck, commissioner of the Gingrich attended Emory ideas and issues committee University and received mas­for the Student Union Board ter's and doctoral degrees (SUB). from Tulane University. He is 
SUB was able to schedule the author of five books, Gingrich -though a booklet including the bnstsellers ''To from agencies representing Renew America," "Lesson speakers the group typically Learned the Hard Way" and uses. "Contract With America," 
"(The booklet] said which he co-authored with Gingrich viewed hi.msell' as a Dick Armey and the House failure for losing Republican Republican Conference. seats during his term as speaker. That is part of why 
see GINGRICH / page 4 

Dip, spread, close and slice 

The Observer/Kristan Corcoran Pasquerilla East residents prepare a fresh batch_of peanut butter and jelly sandwiches Thursday for the Center for The Homeless. Dozens of sandwiches were made in the effort. 
I·-..1.. A.-.. 

page 2 
¦ INSIDE COLUMN 
Tin1e for a change 
Kent Slat£' has qualified for the nrnn's 
basketball NCM tournament. Notre Dame's season is over. Does anyone else sec a problem with this? Kent State':; only 

Mike Connolly 
claim to fame is that 
Copy Editor ·
the National Guard shot a bunch of people on their campus. Notre Dame is, according to Sports Illustrated, the second best jock school in the country and has the 16th best basketball program of all-time. Yet some­how the Irish will be watching the post-sea­son on their television sets. 
Some may argue Kent State only qualified for the NCAA tournament because they get the automatic bid from the Mid American Conference -a conference much easier than the Big East. 
These people would be correct. except they overlook one thing. Kent State beat Miami of Ohio in the MAC Championship to earn its NCAA bid. The Irish. on the> other hand, lost to Miami in the first home game of the sflason. 
If t.he Irish had lwafon Miami, their record would have been 15-15. With a .500 record. they would have qualified for the NIT. While the NIT is not nearly as presti­gious as the NCAA tournament, it is a whole lot better than nothing. 
So basically what it comes down to is this: if Notre Dame had a basketball program equal to Kent State, they would still be playing. Pretty sad, huh? 
I don't place the blame for this season on the players. They played their hearts out and tried their best. 
No, I place the blame for this season squarely on two men: athletic director Michael Wadsworth and head coach John Macleod. 
Irish fans have been forced to tolerate mediocre basketball for eight seasons. In Macleod's eight seasons at the helm, Notre Dame has never qualified for the NCAA tournament. never won a Big East Tournament game and never been ranked in the top 25. 
Macleod's winning percentage under the Golden Dome is .457. We don't tolerate this kind of failure from a football coach, why do we tolerate it from a basketball coach? 
Gerry Faust had a .535 winning percent­age and was fired after five years as head football coach. Macleod's .457 winning per­centage has somehow kept him around for eight seasons. 
Mr. Wadsworth, do you have no interest in the men's basketball program'? Why are you so apathetic about its fate? Muffet McGraw has proven that successful basket­ball programs can exist under the Golden Dome. Macleod hasn't acomplished what Notre Dame fans expect him to. 
I have heard from many people that Macleod is a good man and a good Catholic -so was Faust. It may be hard to let a good man like Macleod go, but it must be done. Notre Dame deserves more than teams that almost make the NIT. 
There are plenty of good young coaches out there who would love to coach in the Big East. Macleod has had long enough to turn our program around. It's time !'or change. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

News Scene 
Sarah Hiltz Kristi Klitsch Marrhew Smich Sarah Dylag Kare Steer Graphics Sports Joe Mueller Mike Connolly Production Viewpoint Noah Amsradter Colleen Gaughcn Lab Tech Joe Stark 

The Ob,crvtr (USPS 5~9 2-'t000) " published Monday through hiday except during exam :md v:1.carion period;, The Ob:-.crver i, a m('"mber of rhe Assoc1arl"d Pre;,s, All rcprod.ucrion righls are re;.ervcd. 
The Observer• INSIDE Friday, March 5, 1999 




utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

UMass students and faculty protest race admissions decision 
AMHERST, Mass. 
In the second protest of the semester, University of Massachusetts students came together with faculty, live College members and civil rights leader Anne Braden to make themselves heard \'\'ednesday afternoon. 
Protesting against the recent univer­sity decision not to prioritize race in admissions policy, the protest orga­nized by tlw Black Student Union took place in its traditional starting point ­on the steps of the Student Union. 
An enthusiastic crowd of about 500 students was in attendance at the protest. 
One of the most prominent speakers was Ann Braden, a 74-year-old civil rights activist. Braden is from the Louisville, Ky., r,hapter of the Southern Organizing Committee for Education and Social Justice. 
"PPoplo are m·erwhPlmcd and do not know what tu du." Braden suggests 

Hraclen also said "many whites don't want to think about race and want to sweep things under the rug." She attacked giving admissions on the basis of income saying it "will pit poor whites against blacks. [You] can't separate class and race, because they have been joined since the first slave ships arrivr,d. When blacks get rights, so do poor whites." Braden cited Pell grants and other programs, which African­Americans initiated, as evidence. 
Braden predicts that if the University does not reverse its decision then "in a few years they [UMass administration] w!ll b.~ cutting out everyone but the elites. 
John Bracey, professor of Afro­American studies, begged th<i adminis­tration for a moratorium on a decision he called "the most mean-spirited, backward thing limy have ev<ir done." 
Bracey has been an active faculty member in reversing the University's decision and recently wrote a letter to Chancellor David Scott on the matter. Bracey's proposal for the chancellor is to call on individuals specialized on the matters to come up with other solu­tions. 
Bracey urged students to use pres­sure to make themselves h1~ard if nec­essary: "We'll tell thorn there's a hurri­cane out of Amherst!" 

¦ UNIVERSlTY OF ARIZONA President pledges homosexual support 
TUCSON, Ariz. 
President Peter Likins Wednesday pledged his support to homosexual university employees and promised to explore options for creating domestic partner benefits. Likins told about 75 members of the Outreach Program that he sym­pathized with the need for subsidized benefits, but politi­cal and financial constraints stand in the way. "I [under­stand] because I have six kids and one of them is gay," Likins said during the noontime forum in the Memorial Student Union Senior Ballroom. "[But] it's a political issue and a financial issue. Here we have conflict." Likins and the group agreed to form a research committee to exam­ine the logistics of the benefits packages, including costs and ways to administer the benefits. "We are going to solicit them to create an ad hoc task force," said Sandy Fagan, assistant director of the University of Arizona's Affirmative Action office. "It's a viable concept." 
¦ UN!VERSlTY Of CALIFORNIA-BERKELEY Frat cycles for charity 
BERKELEY, Calif. 
Members of the Pi Kappa Phi fraternity at UC Berkeley are taking the idea of going the extra mile to the extreme ­they are going an extra 3,500 miles to raise money and awareness for people with disabilities. About 60 members of the Pi Kappa Phi fraternity from universities across the country, including three from UC Berkeley, are joining together to ride 3,500 miles on their bicycles from San Francisco to Washington, D.C., on a 63-day "Journey of Hope." The UC Berkeley chapter of the fraternity has been very active in the ride and has sent two or three people on the ride annually for the past six years. Money for the event is provided by the participants, whom the foundation requires to raise at least $4,000 in donations, in addition to providing their own bicycles. The money goes to the PUSH America foundation, which is· the national service project created by the Pi Kappa Phi fraternity. PUSH America is dedicated to improving the lives of people with disabilities. 

¦ PRINCETON UN!VEHS!TV 
Prof sues Smashing Pumpkins 
PRINCETON, N.J. 

Music professor Peter Jeffery is suing The Smashing Pumpkins, as well as a host of' other organizations, for alleged damage inllicted on his hearing at a rock concert he attended two years ago. Because Jeffery prefers Gregorian chants and folk music, he had never attended a rock concert, his attorney Anthony Wallace said. As a result, he did not expect thP decibel inwnsity Im experi­enced when he took his 12-year-old son to a Smashing Pumpkins show Jan. 25, 1997. Jeffery alleges that his hearing was permanently damaged and that he now suf­fers from tenitis, a condition resulting in a constant ring­ing in his left ear, Wallace said. Jeffery filed a lawsuit Tuesday against the Smashing Pumpkins, their label Virgin Records and the two opening bands, Fountains of Wayne and The Frogs. The lawsuit is also directed at the New Haven Coliseum, where the concert was held,.the city of New Haven itself and the concert promoter. 
¦ UNIVERSITY dF WiSCONSIN Officials not held liable for stampede 
MADISON, Wis. 

The state Supreme Court voted Wednesday to assert that UW-Madison officials cannot be held liable !'or injuries resulting from a 1993 stampede at Camp Handall Stadium. The 3-3 decision affirmed a February appeals court ruling in which the court decided UW officials, as public olTicials, are immune from lawsuits stemming from the stampede. Eight students sued UW officials following the Oct. 30. 1993 stam­pede, in which 69 students were injurnd during a rush toward the field. The stampede occurrnd when fans from the student section surged onto the lield following Wisconsin's 13-10 victory over Michigan. Some were trampled while other fans became trapped against a 4-foot-high chain link fence. Police reports issued after the rush describe human pileups five to six bodies deep, and indicatn that overcrowd­ing in the student section nearly cost 10 fans their lives. The eight plaintiffs sued a group of UW officials -including chancellor David Ward. 
¦ Sourn BENO WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather«' forecast for daytime c.:orn.lition'> and high temperatures 

The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Friday, Mar. 5. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
r••-·•·"··••••••""""'""""··· 
ff·.·
:•~, __,,,.,~" 
L 
Friday ~ 41 32 
''\,'' 
Saturday @ 32 31 Sunday ~ 29 .ta Monday ~-31 ta· 
308 ~ 
10 1999 AccuWeather, Inc. COLO WARM STATIONARY
·.,.·.,:> 
Preuure: 
® ©
~
Tuesday . .:...:. ,:. 30 21 


High Low Shower• Rain T·storms Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
.,..,, ,~,:-· ,::
,;,... :·. 
'}, ). · .. 

. 
WE cc 
"'4W ­
hiday, March 5, 1999 The Observer• NATIONAL NEWS page 3 



Dole forms committee to explore White House run 
-------------·--·-­
Dl·'.S MOINliS. Iowa 

FlizahPlh llolc• will announni tlin fon11ali1111 of' an 1•xploratory rommitl1•1i looking loward tlw lkp11hlira11 pn~sick11lial 1H1111i11u­
t io 11 rwxt wnc•k, aic!Ps said 
Thursday. 
Tlw ,u1111n1111:Pm1•11l will runw at an 1\v1•11t in IJPs MuinPs on 
WPrlrH•sciay, said spokPsnrnn 
David 111,dclig. 

Dol<l has visilml Iowa and Nnw I lampshirn since announcing she was !Paving as head of' lhr. /\nwrican Hnd Cross. and she had hinlPcl strongly slw would t'orm an 1:xplornlory co1mnilln1\ a typical lirsl slf:p toward gnlling in thi1 rm:11. 
"Obviously an exploratory 1:ommil11•c is when you r11ally hav,~ I.he opportunity to do rnal 
f'und raising." sho said during hnr most rncnnt swing in tlrn stat,•. 
T1:xas Cov. George Bush announced this wook that lrn was l"orrning su<'h a commit.too. 
Mosl polls have shown Bush and Mrs. Dole atop lhc liPld or GOP crmtnndors, but rivals sug­gosl lhal that is simply becausn Lhcy have f'amiliur names. 
"II. officially adds another 
establishment Hopublican lo the field, furtlrnr splintering that vote." said Grc•g MuellPr, a con­sultant allied with publisher Stnvc Forbns, who is also likely to sunk tho nomination. "It makes it nasier for a bona lido cm1s1\rva­live who is well organized and with deep rcsourr.ns to get the llepublican nomination." 
However. Doln will lm a serious contender. Slw gol rave rnvicws 

for her speech to the Hepublica11 National Convnntion in San Dingo in 1996 and has more national political l\Xpnri1mw than many of those cyning tile nomination. 
Slw is a f'amili1tr !'ace in Iowa. wlwrn µreduct n1ucuses launch tlw nominating season next February, and in N1!W Ilampshirn, whh:h holds the first primary dPction. 
In addition, Dole likely can tap into a lfopublil:an fund-raising rfotwork. 
Iowa (;op stral.ngist Tom Copn call~cl lwr a "uniqw• and com­pdling" 1:andidat<:. but war1ws slw's 1wv1•r run for ollicP bnf'ort\, 
Cf1\EMt\f~K Tl l[MlffS 
I 

i\11 Slmwl> Bcf<WL' 6 l'M $4 oo 
S-LOO Cfuf~f~n/S'cnin1·, $fi.50 ALlt1f1 Swrco St11mund Sound i11 all Theatres 
6m.m, A 
1:20, 205, 4:15, 5:00, 7:00, 745, 9:45, 10 30 200 Cigarettes R 2:15, 5:10. 7:40, 10:10 
Message In A Bottle PG-13 1:15, 2:10, 4:05, 5:05, 7:10, 8:15, 9:55 
Life Is Beautiful PG-13 1 :30, 4:35, 7:35. 10:15 October Sky PG-13 
2:00. 4:40, 7:25, 9:50 
Patch Adams PG-13 1:35, 4:10, 7:20, 10:00 Payback R 1 :45, 4:20, 7:05, 9:40 Prince of Egypt PG 2:20, 4:50 Saving Private Ryan R 1:40, 5:15, 9:20 Shakespeare in Love R 1:so, 4:30, 7:55, 10:35 Rushmore R 1 :55, 4:25, 7:30, 10:20 The Faculty R 7:25, 9:50 The Other Sister PG13 

1:25, 4:20, 7:15, 10:05 IODAn 'JM!S Olli! IOllt DAY m~, nmr $All! HIINDKl,P ACClSSlll! . HO PAISIS • NO SVOIJSA\1£1! 

The Alumni Association is hiring people who would like to work from June 2 ,1999 thru June 5, 1999 for Reunion '99 You'll have lots of fun while you earn extra spending money!!! Please Apply at Student Employment at 336 Grace Hall or the Alumni Association at 100 Eck Center 



page4 The Observer • NEWS Friday, March 5, 1998 
Three dead in Toll Road collision 

OJ:r f 
I I lCer, WO others kl .11e d bv out of. 
J -­
·
t I


COn rO Semt 
ByJR ROSS A,.odated Pre.s Writer 
SOUTII BEND 
A tractor-trailer slammed 
into a police cruiser and a 
sport utility vehicle pulled 
over for a routine tramc stop 
Thursday, killing an Indiana 
State trooper who had been 
on the job only throe months 
and two motorists. State 
Police said. 
State Polico spokesman Dave Bursten said llichard Gaston, 29, of Valparaiso was in his cruiser with a supflrvi­sory officer when the semi plowed into tht-lm, slamming the car into an embankment on the Indiana Toll Road.. 
The second officer, senior 
trooper Rrad Kaizer, suffered 
a concussion and lacerations. 
The 11-vear State Police vet­
eran was listed in fair condi­
tion Thursday night at 
Memorial Hospital in South 
Bend. 
Also killed were Duane 
Honorees 
continued from page 1 
the Yakama Indian Nation. 
John Schiffer (doctor of sci­ence} -A senior physicist and the associate director of the physics division at Argonne National Laboratory, Schiffer holds a joint appointment as a professor of physics at the University of Chicago. One of the world's leading nuclear scientists. his work has includ­ed seminal studies on the structure and dynamics of the nuclrrnr system to pioneering 

Fites. 66, who Gaston had 
pulled over for a traffic viola­tion, and his 11-year-old grandson. Charlie Fewell. Bursten said. 
The Fites are Auburn resi­dents; their grandchildren are from the Granger area. Fitcs' wife, Nancy, 62, and 
their 9-year-old granddaugh­ter. Kaitlyn Fewell, were also injured when the semi jack­
knifed and landed on top of their Ford Expedition. Both were cut out of the vehicle by rnscuc workers and taken to local hospitals. 
Nancy Files was trnated at Memorial Hospital and released. Kaitlyn Fewell was listed in stable condition Thursday night after being bruugl1L to SL .Joseph's Bcgional Medical Center. 
Kaizer was overseeing Gaston, who graduated from the Indiana State Police Academy in December and 
was  scheduled  to  begin  
patrolling on  his own  March  
22, Bursten said.  

Bursten said the troopers pulted ovt'r the SUV and wore on the righl side of the west­bound lanes of the tollway just north of South 13end about 
2:15 p.m. EST when a semi driven by Spencer Cornelius. 50, of Chicago slammed into 
searches for quarks. 
Edmund Cardinal Szoka 
(doctor of laws) -Formerly the arch­bishop of Detroit, 

Cardinal Szoka was appointed in1997toa f'ive-year tenn direct-
Szoka 
ing Church 
operations as president of the Pontifical Commission for Vatican City. After nine years as cardinal in Detroit. he supervised the Vatican's budget from 1990­
97. 

the cruiser for unknown rea­sons. Cornelius was in fair condi­tion at Memorial Hospital. 
The accident closed west­bound lanes of the toll road for a 5-mile stretch as officers tried to reroute trafnc along local roads. Eastbound lanes were stop and go as police moved in equipment to clear up the accident scene and passing motorists slowed to stare at the accident. 
The force of the collision demolished the trooper's cruiser, throwing it onto the side of the road. The jack­knifed semi landed on top of the SUV. forcing both into the ditch, and the front of the truck's cab was embedded into the hillside. 
It was the second time in eight months a trooper has been killed un lhc toll road, and the fourth trooper struck and killed by a tractor trailer since 1995, Bursten said. Master trooper David Anthony Deuter, 41), of Angola was killed in July 60 miles easl of Thursday's accident when he was struck by a tractor trailer during a traffic stop. 
Gaston, formerly of Indianapolis, is survived by his wil'e, Amy. and 10-month­old daughter, Jean. 
Gingrich 
continued from page 1 
He was named Time mag­azine's "Man of the Year" in 1995. 
Tickets for the lecture are $10 for general admission and $6 for students. They may be purchased at (he LaFortune Student Center information desk. 
The talk is financed by SUB, the Student Activities Office and ticket sales. 
The talk will be cospon­sored by the SUB and toe Student Activities Office. 
~-­---?114-­~ CELEBRATED EVENTS Comprehensive Wedding Coordinating and Party Planning SPECIALIZING IN LONG DISTANCE WEDDING PLANNING CYNTHIA EASKER l00 N. Center Street Suite 27 Mishawaka. IN 46544 2 l 9-257-8873 Cliff ur 1,·ri1e ,,,. ree in ,,mwtimwl ad.et  

CORRECTION: 
CAMPUS MINISTRY FRESHMAN RETREATS: 

RETREAT #22: (MARCH 26-27) SIGN. UP. 
TARGETED DORMS: 

ALUMNI, FARLEY, FISHER, HOWARD, KEENAN MORRISSEY, O'NEIL, PASQUERILLA WEST, ST. EDWARD'S AND WALSH. 
RETREAT #23: (APRIL 9-10) SIGN UP., 
TARGETED DORMS: 

BADIN, BREEN-PHILLIPS, KEOUGH, KNOTT, LYONS, PASQUERILA EAST, STANFORD, AND WELSH. 

~
.....,____________________:....:_______:__:___ __1_,___I ___ .! j , f 
~-------llll.-----•-••--------•-¦IJlllll!&__,.C___.=t'=t'•ll"'IIIWWW_,,,___IUl.-4--•-•----....-_____,,,.....,.__,__.,. -C"'•""...-..-----••---...._..,...-­

Friday, March 5, 1999 

¦ ~'\ior;, o N1:ws BRIEFS 
Internet love leads to death 
DETllOIT 
•\ h·1•1H'h woman who was wmwd on thn lnlPl'IWt, tlwn travnlnd to suburban l>titroit lo H1P1•l lwr cylwr-suilor, was round d<'ad in nn apparPnl suiridl' aftpr till' man llS()d lwr !'or SPX and kirk1·d l11~r oul, pollen said. l'olir1• in Farmingt1111 11 ills f'ound 28-ynar-old lulil' Yasa df'Hd af'lPr lwr lovnr 1':tl!Prl on W1•11lwsday a1J1I rPpnrlPd a body lying in llw \,\'11111ls a,-ross l'ron: his apnrtnwnl ,·omplnx. Slw was \\"Paring a shirt and pants. but :w rw11. and had a slwt>t wrapp1•d around hnr waist. Thi• man. wh1isp nnnw was not r1·l1,as1•d. was 1JLIPSl.io1wd by policl' and rPl1•nsPd, hut policP said lw l'ould slill f'al'.P rhaq.;PS. ''It's an (•xt.rPnwly sad story," l'olicP CliiP!' William Dwy1'r s;tid. "Thb woman ,·onws all tlw way from Paris. is unstubk ,rncl suil'iclal. is us;•d !'or iwx ancl thrown out llw l'ollowi11g day and gPts 110 hnlp wlrntso­
t'V1·r. 
Judge throws out abortion law 
NEW OBI.EANS 
A l'cdcral juclgP on Thursday struck down a Louisiana law ainrnd at banning the latc­l.Prn1 aborlion procmllll'P known as partial birth abortion. Tlw law's supporters said it oullawml the proc1!durn doctors call dilation and Pxtraction, but U.S. District Judge Thomas l'ortl\ous sided with those who said lilf' law rould bn int1!rprnted more broadly. "This act's broad language seems Lo pur­posPl'u!ly l'J'f•al!' confusion and ambiguity," l'orlPous wrntP. saying lw was unswayml by llw stat1~ ·s claim that tlm law only applied to dilation and l'Xlrni:tion. Opponents said thn law would hav1\ outlawed all abortions ht>1·a11sf' it forbade any abortion perf'ormcrl 0111:P any part of a fotus 1~nters the birth nrnal. 
Posh Spice gives birth to 
baby boy 
LONDON 
Posh Spier, Victoria Adams gave birth Thursday in London to a 7-pound baby boy. "Victoria is very well," said the baby's fotlH'r. soccer star David Beckham. "She is silting up drinking champagnn and has spo­ken to the othnr girls," referring to the otlwr memlrnrs ol' lhn Spice Cirls pop group. "The birth was natural and thnrc wPn1 no complicalicms. nothing at all," he said. Adams, 24. is the sP.cond member of llw all-girl group lo give birth. "Scary Spicp" MdaniP C, who was known as Mel B hdorn lwr :narriagci lo dancer Jimmy Culzar. gavn birth lo a daughtnr last month. Tlwy called the baby Phonnix Chi. Shn also gavp hirth at Portland Hospital for Women and Children in Central London, where Adams had lwr baby. 
Composite
• 18.')4 
VolunH': 
+ 191..52 751,(100,()00 
VOLUME LEADERS 
i P~U• ~~~ ii! bl I! 1.t!irlid!!iliil· l ii~I~' 1·1rn 1 Ill I.I f, l\11'\:r! 1' fllll +l It, +O.•J"2~ Kl KH l\.l! I. l OHi' I\ h -IH -1 1IJ7$ I U. !H 
i( ~ l\l I l lJ(l1 <'t)Nt"i , L7H +l).-f.i7:'i 2.''i.11(1 r l\tt1 \\'\I U,f\ ( '~( l) • ~ 2t1 +.'f.1250 ,,1-1.2:; \II( lO )'i.01 I ( 0Jll1 \!\I ! • !.1~ +2,1,2~0 1~2.25 1,1u1 1.1 , ·1 •m· ,nu 1 +..! •1..i + I."\HOO th.. \H \!,\.\ ltlf{ l"OH \.P\111 o.17 .!J.Sf,50 H ll l1AV1 Ill.I( l\:l !',\VX + 11 21l r ....117~ U.tm 
I.I VII \t!l'"-t\il:..t IHI +.l,!)'t[)() S7.'J.i
+~-.•~
~Cl\'I !I ]N\ '.;'~ 1\/I 1-0 . .IO +U.W(l 2iUl6 

COMP/LED FN0M THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
¦ MEXICO 




AFP Pholo 

Four gang members lined up yesterday for identification in the kidnapping of Alvaro Campos, the father of Mexico's soccer great Jorge Campos. 
Mexican police catch kidnappers 
Assoc::.y1·rn P1u-:ss 
/\CAPULCO 
Four gang members have been arrested and face up lo 40 years in prison each after confessing to kid­napping the father of star Mexican soccer goalie Jorge Campos, prose­cutors announced Thursday. 
The abduction of Alvaro Campos, 66, is the latest in a series of kid­nappings that have angered Mexicans. 
The sullen, T-shirt-clad suspects were paraded before television cameras in the coastal resort of Acapulco. 
The four were carrying guns when they were arrested Wednesday. J\ search continues in the Pacific coast state of Guerrero · for 12 other suspects involved in the February 17 abduction. 
Alvaro Campos was released six days later, after his family paid $63,000 in ransom. 
All four suspects were charged with kidnapping. which carries a maximum sentence of 40 years. 
The suspects originally asked the Campos family for $2 million in ran­som but reduced those demands once they realized police were involved in the case, according to the Guerrero state Attorney General's Office. 
Alvaro Campos was released Feb. 23 along a highway outside of Acapulco. He was in good health. apparently suffering only a sprained 
ankle during his ordeal. 
lie had apparently bc!ln held in a rural encampment northwest of Acapulco, prosecutors said. As many as eight heavily armed 
men  seized Alvaro Campos at  a  
sports field  named for his son  in  a  
southern suburb of Acapulco.  

Jorge Campos was the national team·s main goalie during its World Cup performances in France last year and in 1994. 
His U.S. Major League Soccer con­tract is now with the Chicago Fire, but the team let him return to Mexico for the season to play for a top division team. The Fire, which acquired him from the Los Angeles Galaxy a year ago. expects him back in the spring. 



Marine officers acquit Ashby 

Pros<,icµtors i;aid As,hby was unclear whether responsibility, this verdict 
was ".flat-hatting" •·:f-i prosecutors will proceed is an act of arrogance 
CAMP LEJEUNE, N.C. recklessly flying too low with that case now. and prevarication." · 
Outraging Italian and too fast _;.. when his When the acquittal was John Arthur Eaves. a authorities, a military EA-6B Prowler hit the announced, ending a trial lawyer who represents jury Thursday cleared a cable on Feb. 3, 1998. He that began Feb. 8, a pros­relatives of eight German Marine pilot of charges could have gotten 206 ecutor turned and said victims, said some he was flying recklessly years in prison if convict-quietly, 'Tm sorry" to lamcntod that there is when his jet sliced ed of all charges. some of the victims' rela• "no justice in thfl world.'' through a, .ski AshhYargued that the tives. Other relat.iv~is "I was just shocked gondola cable in the Alps cables weron't on his hugged and wept. because I can't under­and sent 20 people map. that the jet's alti-"J am really baffled by stand that the man who plunging to their deaths. tude-gauging equipment this ruling," Italian kil11~d 20 people ... is not 
A whoop wont up in tho malfunctionod and that Prem!Hr Massimo guilty," said Sindy tiny courtroom whe11 the an optical illusion made D'Alema said during n. Renkewitz of G(Hmany, eighl Marine officers him think he was Oying visit to Boston. "With that. whose father and sisLer found Cnpt. Richard highor. kind of a massacrn, with diod in thn accidl'nt. "I Ash by innocent of 20 Ashhy still faces anoth-so many casualties, I don't believe that ho feels involuntury manslaughter er court-martial, on think it is a duty_ to bad for us. HP could've M cha rgos and otht1r obstruction of just.ice ensure that justice is loast apologiz,~d to us. counts. The jury deliber­charges for the disap-done." He said Italy will but he dido't do it." ated for 7 1/2 hours. pearance of a videotape "explore all the legal The jurors anrl the 
"Rasicafly, all I really his navigator made dur-ways" to hold thoso proS('Cutors had no rom­waut lo say is this has ing the fatal flight. He rosponsiblo liable. ment. been a trngedy for all coulcl get a year in prison Achille Occhetto, presi-White (louse involved." Ashby .said. lf convfoted. dent of the lowor house spokesmnn Joo Lockhart ··My hoan, my thoughts And his navigator, -of Parliamnnt's foroign said the mat.tor could and prayers go out to the Capt. .Joseph Schweitzer, affairs committee, said, come up Friday during families of victims of this faces a manslaughter "[n the face of many President Clinton's meet­trngody." court-martial as well. It dead, and such clonr ing with D'Alema. 


VIEWPOINT 
page 6 -----------------------­
THE OBSERVER 

NoTRE DAME OrncE: P.O. Box Q, None Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Norre Dame. IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
f.DITOR-IN-CHIF.F Heather Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BuslNF.55 MANAGFR Brian Rd nrhalcr Kyle Carlin 

t\SSISTANT MANAGING EOITOlt Hearht:r MacKC"ntir 
NEW.s EDITOfl .. ....Mu..:hdlc Krup.1 AoVERTISJ!\JG MANAGER.. ....Brpn Lurz VIEWPOINT EDITOR ..................Eduardo Llull AD DESIGN MANAGER ........................Breu Huclat SPORIS EDffOR ...................... K.thkcn Lope, SYSTEMS MANAGER ..................... Michael Brouillet SCENF EDITORS...........................Sarah Dybg CoNTROI.LER ....................................Dave Rogero 
Kristi Klitsch WEB Am,11NISTRATOR .......................Allison Krilla SAINT MARV'S EDITOR ...... M. Shannon Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR ...............................Pcre Cilella PHOTO EDITOR. ........................Kevin Dalum 
Thi" ObservC'r j_~ rhc inJepc11dem nc-wsp.1pr-r pl1hlish~d hy rhe srudcnts of rhc UnivcrsiryofNotrc D.imc d~1 Luc and Saim M.uy'!i College. Ir docs not necessarily reflect the policies of rhc ::iJmiJ1ism1tion of either imtitution. The news is reported. ;L~ ;tC<:Uratciy and objectively ;u, possible. Unsigned editorials rqm.:~nt the opinion ofthe majority of the Editor-in~Chil·f, Managing Editor, Assist:mr Managing Fdicor Jnd d<'11.1rur'!C1H «ilmrs. Commcntaril',;, letters an(f columns present the view5 ofthe o1uthori., and nl'lt ncces.-.arily those-{)f ·n,e Observer. Viewrc,i,u sp;1cc is jV.til:ahlc to all 
member'$ of ihe-Notre DnmdS:"tint MJry·, community and to :'111 re-Jdcrs. ·n,t'. frc.-e ~xpr~ion ofvJrying opinions through lenro. is cncour~gal 
Comacting The Observer 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 i!usiness Office 631-5313 Managiag Editor/ As,isrant ME G31 •454 I Advertising 63 i-6900/8840 News/Photo 631-5323 Systems 631-8839 Sports 63 I •4543 fox 631-6927 Scene/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Viewpoint E-Ma,I Viewpoint. l@nd.edu Dav EditorN,ewpoinr 631-5303 Ad E-Mail observer@d:.1rwin.cc.nd.t"du Office Manager/General Information 631-7471 News E-Mail obmvcr.obsncws. l@nd.edu 

¦ LULA'S JmmNAl 
It's Time for Wine to Come out of the Closet 
A subversive organization holds secret meetings on this hallowed campus, sneaking and slithering from room to room promoting behavior banned from our dorms and classrooms. Yes, it keeps a low profile. 
Jeff Langan 
Du Lac prohibits its activities. Student Activities refuses to recognize its exis­tence as-a student group. It can't get funding for on-campus events. It can't get funding for speakers. If it wants to have events or speakers 011 campus, it can't legally get a room. It can't put up posters to advertise. II' posters are put up, they are ripped down. It can't get dis­count rates to advertise in The Observer. 
No one would dare think of doing in public around students at Notre Dame what the members of this group only dare to do in private. Most guys and gals prefer pleasing themselves in other ways. J\t the same time, they admire the courage with which this group fights their cause. Most shocking of all, this group can't even get tlw lwlp of the PSA, which claims to help anyone who is dis­criminatml against. 
This group is WINE-ND. a group of stu· dents dedicated to pronmting the exclu­sivr. use of wine at Notre Dame. They also welcome the consumption of fine cheeses along with wine. but that is a secondary issue. Their mission is a bold one. They have a noble cause. In short, they think that µromoting wine-drinking at Notre Dame will solve many of its social and intellectual problems. 
Let's look at some of their specific pro­µosals. 1-'irst, they advocate banning beer on campus -not all bner. only cheap sion of cheap beer drinkers at Notre Dame. They will begin a one-week wine-and-cheese fast. No wine and· cheese for a week, that'll show 'em. 

This campus has a drinking prob­lem. The problem is that students over-indulge in cheap beer. Why? Because they are cultural Puritans who have a poor notion of virtue. Their parents and educators have spent 18-29 years teaching them to repress their desires and passions as evil or at least repress them long enough to let you put in a good 60-80 hour work week. They grow up in an 
\ \ 
¦ DOONESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU  
JP fJE HAPPY7D H/3/,P, MR.NOUYaJ! /£T~ (3{}8ACI<·5TA6e ANP CJIS­CIJGS 7H8/JflA/l.,5/  rr~ A !J&i,!Ct/7EM/rr7eR.'3/NC£ 'IOll'r<e AM&R/04N,l,{JpHAL13'llJ !Je ~N7!7D OFfl:WP COMMUNISTf'A/?lYOffl0At'7­ 

¦ 0.JJOTE OF THE DAY 
, poets have been myste­. riously silent on the subject of cheese.' 
-G.K. Chesterton 


VIEWPOINT 
________________________ page 7
Friday, March 5, [999-------------------OB~ERVER 
¦ CAPITOL COMMENTS 
Stanford Griffens are 'Real Studs' 
Wlwn Stanford llall rnsidcnts rnc11ntly votnd to honor longtimo hall r,1sido11t l;atlrnr Hnlwrt Grif'lin by changing their dorm mascot from "Studs" to "Grillins," tlmy sl10wecl that t.lrny trnly 1u·c thn studs ol' tho campus. (iiving up such ll macho and cool r.0ll11giate mascot 1rn111n to honor a pritist was 1111 unsdlish, rnl­Pvant art. llurin~ my days on campus. !;at.her (irillin rn1bodiPd tlw qualitiPs many Catholics d(!SirPcl lrnl. ig1111n•1L 
Cril'lin wus known as tlw priPsl who atlrud1'.cl "h>s11rs" and "mislils" to his room during tlw wcP 
·Gary J.

hours of Lill' morning. Sitting in a largn rnclining chair just b1•y<md his open door all night, lw was the 

Caruso 

spong,\ who soak1\d up tlw lwarlhrcak, frustra­was in Grifrs room hugging in a warm mnbrace. 
During the summers, Fl Gorgo worked al a parish in Times Square. I visited him once and had to compete with a woman wbo claimnd that Sammy Davis. Jr. had stolen lrnr ovaries. That neighborhood was rough. and Griffin's summers wern no vacations. 
Father Griff was horriblo at writing letters 
io anyone although lw wrote "Letters to a Lonely God" on a wenkiy basis for Tho Observer during thB school year. I only knovv of' one student who cver got a lcttm· from Griff. Wlrnn tlrn student graduated from Notre Dame, he believed that he had 


tion and uncertainty ol' accomplished the only 
Notn• llamP ltH•nagors who Wl'n\ ho11wsil'k or upperclassmen who w1lnl lroubl1id. lln always Imel a hug rnady for his visitors, and his imnrnnsn siz11 Parned him tho nanrn "l!I Gorgo," the large onn. 
In th!' 11'70s when the Vintnam War raged and graduation from Notre Dume meant a tour in Soutlmast-Asia, students had morn inlcnsn prnssuros that literally equated into lifo and dN1th situations. During that era when snxual ardor prosentcd uncxpoctcd prngnancins to young Catholic couples who had f'Pw1•r options than today, Griff was thn conlidanl to whom rixplanations could lrn rl'twars!'cl. Many stud1inls, including myself, Pv1•nlually gravitawd Lo tlw prinst who him­s1df SPl'nwd a pathutirally lonnly soul. 
Workin~ ltw spiritual graveyard shift nach l'VP!li11g, Criflin snldom rosn lrnl'orn noon. llowPv11r. wlwrwver lw strollnd across cam­pus during tlw al"ternoon. small armies of' stucknLs "just hap1w111•d to bP going tlw samn wav." It was not until hf' ~tdoptl'CI his rocknr 
goal he sought in life. lie linnlly drew the courage to send his first letter to Griff during the summer after his graduation. As the summer passed, his let­ters were easier to wrilc and send because Griff did not rnspnnd. 
My classmate often wrote to Father Griffin that as he crossed the Golden Gate Bridge daily, he felt like making a hard right turn and plunging into the bay. lie suffered from a depression stemming from his final break with Notre Dame. llis self-worth was zero. lie had no outlook on life or future plans and dreacl1id the approaching autumn when reali­ty would eventually totally consume him. 
One day in early August, a small envelope from Ntiw York arrived in my classmate's mailbox. Ile was nervous and embarrassod to open il. When he eventually did, he found a two-page handwritten letter from Father Griff in whiC'h the priest assured the nflw graduate that he was a unique creation from 
God. loved and 
very much wantod 
sonal and homoy touch. The sign of peaco always cnnsistml of hugs, not handshak,1s ­at tho timn, a radical deµartuni l'rom slan­dard Church procedure. Students returning from home and tlrnir parish mass experi­1'11c1is often comnrnnwd to Grillin how much rnorP spiritual the children's mass stmmed to tlwm. Fallrnr Gril1in could nlicil a spiritual warmth lacking outside of the Notre Damn campus. 
Griffin's hands-011 approach or hugging could also turn off some as quickly as it soothed others. I onc,1 was visiting Griff dur­ing a football wenk,ind when a somewhat nervous studm1t entPred the room. lie stood frown and <~met whnn Griff hugged him. I.le lidgeh)d whih• us visitors remuinod in the room. Finally, Fr. Griffin asked us to leave and dnsed tlm d<lor. Somntimes privacy was the only approach to a stud,mt's troubled soul. The following year, again during one of my football W(leknnd visits, that V(lry student been the model of charity and compassion, qualities that make Notro Damp enigmatic. 
The men of Stanford can be proud to be mighty Griffins. While their mascot may have been physically weak, the men of Stanford will embody strength through his character. Their future achi1wements will be extensions of his past successes. Thoy will always be Studs in deed if not in name. 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame '73, worked at the U.S. 1/ouse ofRepresentatives for eigh­teen years and is a consultant in Washington, D.C. His column appears every other Friday and his Internet address is HoUline@aol.com. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
¦ LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Gciy Pride Sidewalk Spraypaint is Juvenile Vandalism 
On my way to class at DeBartolo Hall, I couldn't help but notice a message that read something to the effect of ''Gay Pride at ND, We're still here!" Presented in bQJd black uppercase letters, this message had been spraypainted on the sidewalk, demanding attention and immor­talizing these words for weeks to come. I am suro tho party responsiblefbr PT9'1ding the gre11ter student body with this messago thought that they were doing their causo a great sorvico. while at the same time proclaiming their resiliency in tho face of adversity. _ 
In the wake of several disappointing decisions made against the Spirit of Inclusion, I am sure the homosexual community and their sup• porters at Notre Oamo are indeed feeling frustration and lamentation. However, the measure taken by this clandestine group managed to ta.ke.anotber step backward for their ca.use. In choosing to spraypaint 
'thl:l .~t~ewalk this group-comnilttod a criminal act of vandalism that will 
leave not only a black mark on the sidewalk, but one on their group's 
reputation as well. Supporters of such acts will argue that vandalism is 
oommonplaco at Notre Dame, One would only nood to go to any 
Hesburgh Library study carrel to find the truth in their argument. 
However, the messages presented in these study terminals are both juvenile and imbecilic at best. Do the supporters of gay nnd lesbian rights atNotre Dame truly want to be identified with the potty­mouth(li:tptopagandists that use these carrels as their forum? Furthermore, in committing this act supporters of the fight for homo­sexualrights add fuel to their opponents' fire by demonstrating a degree ofimmaturity and irresponsil;lility that cannot coexist with Notre Dame's environment, regardless of whether or not the powers that be ever initiatn the Spirit of Inclusion. 
Additionally, this act only affirms the very stereotypes that the sup­
porters of gay and lesbian rights are hoping to dispel. Spraypainting n 
sidewalk and taking somethipg away from the beauty ol' our own cam­
pusis a radical, criminal act outside of tho moral code of not only this 
University but society as well. In acting radically, criminally and 
immorally, these people can only be expected to be classified as such. 
And from such classifications stereotypes and an aura of homophobia 
wil1 continue to linger on this campus. 
In the future Ican only suggest that this enclave of sidewalk painters 
choose more traditional methods of diffusing their message. Other 
groups such as the PSA and OUTroachND use editorials, rallies, 
speeches and less damaging chalkings to push their agendas. Through 
a more conservative methodology these groups have found a voice for a 
liberal message. For the meantime, these vandal crusaders for homo­
sexual rights can only be classified with the foul-mouthed deviants who 
disgrace study carrels and bathroom stalls with uninspired discourses; 
both of which are groups that I am sum the Board of Trustees and 
other University officials are not likely to negotiate with. 
Brian J. Hobbins 
Sophomore Keenan Ffbruary 26, I')99 

aot somethiV\9 to say? Write for ViewpoiV\t. 
St1bmit two sample colt1mV\s of 800~1000 words to ColleeV\ iV\ the basemeJl\t of SDt--r 
spa11i1d, Darby O'(iill, against Univ<irsity reg­ulations. that somP stuc!PnLs saw him as rool. Stm!Pnts in those turhulc'llt times icl,'llti­lit•d with t.hos1i who rPbukNl authorilv. 
EVPntually. (iril'lin's Stanford room bnramn too small for his night­ly gatlrnrings so lw n11umg1•d to opPn Ow tirst 24-lrnur campus loungP in llw basH­nwnt of thl' l.ah>rt.u1w St1111Pnt C:1·ntnr. It was approprial!'ly namnd aftPr his dng. YPt, Darby's l'lat:11 was Loo big r,;r sonw who so11gh1 morn intimacy and privacy. 
TIii' Stanford llall mass Criflin cr>!nbrat­
l'd w:ts alwa~.s '.l :\hil­drnn s mass. (,nlf would gatlwr all Urn small d1ildren f'rom tlw c:011grcgatio11 
~/~ around tlw alter and 
~.,...-r&'•...._,__

gav,i mass a more pm·-L---=--=:..._______________ 

in this world. The fact that Griff took tlrn time to write the letter made all the difference to my friend who went on to a suc­cessful career and happy family life. 
Years later, life for Father Griffin changed when a doctor gave the priost two choices ... lose weight or die. So our large one lost an aston­ishing amount of weight and took control of his life. llis longevity has been directly pro­portional to the myriad of souls he has touched and guided, both with­in the Notre Dame community and on the streets of New York City. llis life has been strong
because he has 
' , ,
' 





w E 
eneN D 
THE ______________ Friday, March 5, 1999
page 8 OBSERVER 
....
c..;, 

¦ 1___,,, l'C!W ASKS .•• 
What are you doing for Spring 
Break? 

"Staying 
"I'm here to going to study for Montana." 
MCATS",; Monica Toby Hlavac O'Rourke Junior Junior Pasquerilla West Pasquerilla West 
"Going to Italy to meet with relatives." 
Kathy Lapenta Senior Off-Campus 


"Going to London to . visit friends and go clubbing." 
Jodie Kranz Senior McGlinn 

"Going on a scavenger hunt for midgets and hot girls." 
Matt Reilly Freshman Seigfried 


"Staying here to do " scuIpture. 
Gino Reinhart Senior Dillon 

If you're lea~ing town don't forget ••• 
Things you'D need mlLeelar: . 
• 
Good music (tapes or eds) 

• 
Extra money for gas and tolls 

• 
Food 

• 
Maps/Directions 

• 
Numbers for emergency help 

• 
Flashlight 

• 
Spare tire, windshield washer fluid, spark plugs and a phone 

• 
Phone number of hotel or destination 

• 
Camera 

• 
A good book or magazines to read 

• 
Crossword puzzles 

• 
Homework (for you nerds) 


Things you'D need in ,.,-arm weal:Ler: 

• 
Sunscreen 

• 
Sunglasses 

• 
Aloe gel (for when you get sunburned) 

• 
Beach hat 

• 
Beach shoes (watch your feet in that hot sun) 

• 
Shorts and T-shirts 

• 
Walkman 

• 
Swimsuit 


Things you'D need in ILe moun•e•us: 
• 
Ski glasses (sunglasses) 

• 
Hat, gloves, scarves 

• 
Warm winter coat and fleece 

• 
Water-resistant pants 

• 
Heavy wool socks 

• 
Sunscreen 

• 
Ski gear (if you have it) 

• 
Pain reliever for muscle aches 


Things you'D need in Europe: 
• 
Backpack 

• 
Day-pack that you can rake on day excursions 

• 
Travel books or language books 

• 
Passport and copy of birth certificate 

• 
Driver's license or I.D. 

• 
Umbrella or waterproof coat 

• 
Comfortable walking shoes 

• 
Hiking boots 

• 
Towel (some hostels don't provide them) 

• 
ATM or credit card for emergency cash 

• 
Name and location ofU.S. embassies 

• 
Return plane rickets 


'.'' 

O 
TIIE
Friday, March 5, 19')9 ---page 9
BSERVER 

I 
2 
3 4 9 8 7 8 9 10 
II 
12 13 14 15 18 17 18 19 
20 
21 
22 23 24 29 
Stop studying 
Study Read a smutty romance novel 
Walk around your room naked 
Go see a movie 
Visit the Snite 
Start working out 
Take a walk around the lakes 
Do some service work 
Clean your room 
Have a nice conversation with a stranger 
Sleep in 

Spend some time on South Quad (ifyou live 
on North Quad) 

Spend some time on North Quad (ifyou live 
on South Quad) 
Sit back and relax Visit the new bookstore Watch some soap operas Go to a weekday mass Relearn long division Rent your favorite movie Rent a really old movie Think about your uncertain future Eat some good food Wear your roommate's clothes Play your stereo really loud 

21 27 28 29 30 
31 
32 33 34 35 38 
37 
38 
39 
40 
41 
42 43 44 49 41 47 48 49 90 
Have fun Visit your old professors Origami! Take a week-long nap Make some bread Read the Bible Have a tea party 
Read "D ,,
omers Watch "Rudy" Become a couch potato Write the great American novel Pig out Spend the night outside on the quad Write letters to all your forgotten friends Take a daytrip Get down and boogie Solitaire! Go swimming Eat pizza every night, then decide to never eat 
. .

pizza again Catch up on forgotten class readings 
Forget about your midterms 
Feel sorry for yourself 
Stop shaving -either your face, legs or armpits Rememorize the state capitals 
Get a bikini wax 
, I 

page 10 The Observer• SPORTS Friday, March 5, 1999 
¦ ON THE Hor CORNER 
Time not right for change, give Mac 2 more years 
fair considering that he hasn't ed from his lack of recruiting standable. Sure, he's had eight llow<wnr, a briof examina­By BRIAN CHURNEY led his team to the NCAAs for ability. In his eight seasons at years to improvfl upon this dif'­tion of' the reasons players left Sports Columnist eight years nor won a Big East Notre Dame, Macleod has only ficulty. But until Notre Dame dispels that idea. Three left tournament game since we been able to recruit roughly · can field a high-quality, becauso of disciplinary prob.:,..___­Dear Mr. Wadsworth, joined the conference. four top-50 recruits. nationally-recognized team lmns (Lalazarian, Bell and However fair it is though. His success in the profes­like we do in football, thus Gottliebl. one lef't because of 
Let me start by telling you I'm asking you to please care­sional ranks and at Oklahoma convincing recruits that Notre homesickness (Hasmussen), how happy we all are that the fully consider any actions you in the '70s are a testament to Dame does indeed have a bas­one left because he thought he Board of Trustees voted down take. Now, I'm far from being his sheer coaching ability. ketball team, recruiting will was NB/\ material despite only the Big Ten issue. You must be a Macleod fan. I think his sub­Remember too, Macleod was continue to be a daunting task. being able to shoot threes pleased. Otherwise your less­stitutions are sometimes ques­the Big East Coach of the Year This year, however, some­(Friel) and one left because his than-stcllar reputation may tionable, his interviews bland just two years ago. thing strange happened. GPA was only slightly higher have been irreparable. If you and his offense seems to be a Furthermore, in his first sea­MacLcod was able to recruit a than his 0.0 scoring average thought the outcry when you unique mixture of chaos and son as coach, MacLeod took a nationally ranked class of (Okwalinga), fired -I mean, when Lou stagnation. team that was recruited by freshmen. Fortunately for us, Other than rricl and retired was bad ... well let's I've been critical of Macleod Digger Phelps and won 18 they have not disappointed. Rasmussen (whom I will argue just say it's a good thing you'll in private conversations and games playing the toughest The trio of Troy Murphy, are inconsequential losses) never know what it would even in this column. I know schedule in the nation. But for David Graves and Harold MacLeod has had litl111 control have been like. I'm not alone either. Much of some reason, he hasn't been Swanagan have carried this over the fates of these players. 
You and I reallv haven't seen the student body is dissatisfied. able to achieve that success team all season long. While Don't we want a coach that's eye-to-eye on a lot of issues. I with his success rate, as they since. Recruiting has bt~en the occasionally showing signs of going to dismiss unruly play­was definitely opposed to rightfully should be. primary hang-up at Notre youth, the three freshmen ers? shunning a lesser bowl three That being said, I believe Dame for Macleod. have showed incredible lead­My point is this: it seems as years ago. I thought Lou that letting Macleod go at this Recruiting is a complicated ership, hustle and production. though Macleod has overcome meant much more to this time would be a grave mis­process whereby a recruit They contributr,d almost 50 his recruiting woes. He University than just wins and take. We live in a time where must take into account several percent of the Irish 's offensive deserves to have a chance to losses. I thought even consid­it seems coaches are let go as factors. Notre Dame basketball production this season. coach these players he recruit­ering the Big Ten was a mis­easily as budding young stars doesn't enjoy the luxury that What's even further aston­ed. So I ask you, Mr. take. from the Montreal Expos. lt Notre Dame football does in ishing, MacLeod apparently Wadsworth, bef'ore you make a 
I'm writing this letter to you seems if a team is not per­terms of national reputation. has been able to recruit two hasty decision, please listen to though. to try and get past our forming well enough to satisfy Furthermore, recruiting more high-quality recruits: this proposal. I suggest you differences and agree on one the powers that be, the coach becomes more difficult when Matt Carroll (who, incidental­give MacLeod two more years issue. becomes the automatic scape­you lack a winning program or ly, is ranked No. 30 by All-Star to prove his worth. By that 
Why should you listen to me, goat. quality players with potential. Sports among high school time, lnglesby will be a senior, you ask? Yeah. I know I don't We saw Del Harris lose his Macleod has had to endure all senior recruits) and Mike the "Fab Three" will be juniors give millions to the school like job for improving the Lakers' of these difficulties, not to Monserez. These two recruit­and Macleod will have had some of the alumni. I'll proba­record every year since he's mention the rigorous academic ing classes, along with sopho­two more recruiting classes to bly never be able to give been there. We've seen Ray standards and less-than-ideal more Martin lnglesby, give the prove his worth. enough money to have any Rhodes lose his job for not location. Irish a strong foundation and a If in two years, we arc not a kind of clout. No. don't stop being able to win with a team Let's face it, Northern bright future. Macleod has legitimate tournament team, reading now; I'm just trying to that was the antithesis of tal­Indiana isn't much of a selling finally gotten the recruiting by all means, Sflnd MacLcod to help you avoid making one of ent. We've even seen Jimmy point. Neither are "real" class­ball rolling. Don't pull a Jerry the Faustian II all of Notre your un-thought-oul decisions. .Johnson lose his job because es wlwreby an athlete actually West, Mr. Wadsworth, and Dame Coaching Blunders. But 
It's about our men's basket­he was apparently too success­HAS TO STUDY (rumor has it purge him before he gets to I have a hunch that he may ball coach, John Macleod. The ful. I urge you to consider that at other Universities, ath­enjoy the increase in talent. surprise us. He's on the right early-March end to another these situations before you letes take classes like "basket­An argument can be made track now. Irish basketball season once make a questionable decision. ball" and "fundamentals of that MacLeod's tendency to again brings out the whispers It takes a while to get a pro­basketball"). lose players after playing for Sincerely, that Macleod's job is less­gram established. Macleod's Macleod 's difficulty in him should lead to his depar­than-stablc. This instability is biggest difficulties have result-recruiting, then, is under-ture. Brian Churncy 
¦ NHL 

Rangers use strong third period to beat Capitols 
... 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The New York Rangers scored three times in less than two minutes late in the third period Thursday night and moved up in the standings with a 4-2 victory over the Washington Capitals. 
Adam Graves scored his 31st goal of the season with 3:32 to play for the winner. Mike Knuble had tied it 57 seconds earlier and Niklas Sundstrom clinched the win one minute after Graves' goal. 
The Rangers erupted to win for the sixth time when trailing after two periods. 
The victory moved the Rangers ahead of Montreal and within two points of eighth­place Boston in the Eastern Conference standings in the five-team race for the final playoff spot. Boston leads the Rangers, Florida, Montreal and defending conference champion Washington. 

Knuble tied the game twice in . the third period, first with 
18:00 to play and again with 
4:29 to go. Sundstrom added the insurance goal with 2:32 left. 
In between Knuble's goals, Peter Bondra scored his 30th of the season on a power play with 
10:57 remaining to put the Caps ahead 2-1. 
After a first period with no goals and no penalties, Gonchar scored a power-play goal -his league-leading 12th among NHL defensemen -at 15:39 of' the second period. 
Senators 5 Flyers 0 
Alexei Yashin scored three goals and Damian Rhodes got his 10th career shutout Thursday night as Ottawa beat slumping Philadelphia 5-0 to set a club record for wins in one season. 
Daniel Alfredsson and Shawn McEachern also scored l'or thn Northeast Division-leading 
Senators, who erupted for thrir final three goals in the last 
2:55 to spoil the NHL debut of Philadelphia goaltender Jean­Marc Pellietier. 
Ottawa recorded its 35th win to move past idle New Jersey into first place in the Eastern Conference by two points. The Senators, who won four of five gancs against the Flyers this year. had their previous season high with 34 wins last season. Ottawa is 7-3 in its last 10 games. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Nacre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves che right to edit all classifieds for concenr without issuing refunds. 
NOTICES  Call 1-888-Council and ask for Tom.  Please call Brian at 4-1126 w/ any info.  I FORRENT  Washer/Dryer. Fridge, Stove. Remodeling Kitchen in spring. RENT REDUCED!  Fax it fast at THE COPY SHOP in LaFortune. FAX Sending and Receiving : 631-FAX 1  
Spring Break Bahamas Party Cruise!5Nights $279!1ncludes  CANCUN, BAHAMAS PANAMA CITY Get FREE PARTIES with USA  WANTED I WALK TO SCHOO< ..______________._ 2-6 BEDROOM  Call 289-4712  $6 HAIRCUTS  
Meals & Free Parties!Awesome Beaches,Nightlife!Departs From  Spring Break! Call 1 ·888-777-4642 to book  EARN MONEY OVER SPRING BREAK  STARTING $185 MONTH/PERSON  FOR SALE  Vito's Barbershop 1523 Lincolnway West  
Florida!Cancun & Jamaica $399!  your trip today!  The Early Childhood and  232-2595  Closed Sun. and Wed.  
springbreaktravel.com  Development Center at Notre  NEW Rates Phone Cards  Mon, Tues.Thurs.Fri 8-4  
1-800-678-6386 Spring Break Panama City  ILOST & FOUND I  Dame and at Saint Mary's College has employment opportunities over Spring Break  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  282 min. $20 call 258-4805 Steel bookcase. 7 shelves.  Call  Sat. 8-3  • FREE BOOK.  
$129!Boardwalk Room w/Kitchen  (March 8-10) for individuals who  219-291-7153  246-1668  
Next To Clubs17 Parties-Free  LOST:  Notre Dame Class Ring.  enjoy young children.If you are  Read a novel for a psychology  
Drinks!Daytona $149!South Beach  Description: Aquamarine stone with  available to work either 7:30-1: 15 or  FLORIDA SPRING BREAK  Beautilul brass bed.queen size.with  study. For more info call Dr.  
$129!Cocoa Beach $149!  name engraved on the inside of the  12:00­ orthopedic mattress set and deluxe  Radvansky's Memory Lab  
springbreaktravel.com  ring. lnitials-PML. Call 273-9813.  6:00 (Monday through Friday)  SANDPIPER-BEACON BEACH  frame.New.never used.still in plas­ 1·9003  
1-800-678-6386  and are interested in spending time  RESORT PANAMA CITY BEACH  tic.$235  
Beanie Baby-Found Feb. 15th  reading children's books,building  FLORIDA FROM $159 PER PER­ 219-862-2082  We Going PADRE!, We Going  
GET THE HECK OUT OF HERE!  between South Dining Hall and the  with  SON  PADRE!  
Mexico, the Caribbean or Jamaica $250 r/t.Other worldwide destina­ K of C. (It looks new so I'm assum­ing that it's someones V-day gift.)  blocks.and singing songs with chil­dren.please contact  3 POOLS 1 INDOOR POOULAZY RIVER RIDE HUGE BEACHSIDE  TICKETS  T O D A Y!!!!!!!!  
tions cheap.Book tickets on line  Call 234-6445.  Thayer Kramer at 631-3344 or  HOTTUB SUITES UP TO 10 PEO·  Carolyn&Mary(and Aaron, though  
www.airtech.com or (212)219-7000.  .Cindy Hestad at 284-4693 as soon  PLE FREE INFO 1-800-488-8828  NEED GRADUATION  you'll never read this)-Get ready for  
as possible.Have fun and get paid  WWW.SANDPIPERBEACON.COM  TICKETS  the time of our lives!!!! Cancun here  
How Green is Green?  Lost: 100 CDs that were in a black  too!  Call Kelly @ 243-8932  wecomel  
CaseLogic carrying case. Lost in  House For Rent  (and we're legal)  
Work in Ireland on a Student Work Abroad Program and find out!  LaFortune the night of 2/26/99. Monetary reward being offered ii  Babysitter needed in my home.Flexible day time hours.Call  4-5 Bedroom Close to Campus  PERSONAL  Love the fourth party  
found. No questions asked.  243-5540.  Includes: Dishwasher,  
''  

Friday, March 5, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 11 
¦ WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
Irish begin season vs. Eagles 
By GENE BRTALIK Sports Writcr 
ThrP1' yi,ars ago ilw Noire IJunw wo1111m ·s Iacross" toam playpd on thn artificial turl' of tlw l .of'tus CPntl'r. 
At tlw 1•1HI of' t.hn snason, llwsn original playflrs stood on tlw fil'ld al Moos<' Krausn Stadium with a rn!'ord of :i-4 ­prf'tty imprnssiv1: for a lirst ynar (Pam laking m1 establislwd pro­grams. Improving to 7-6 last yPar. tlw l<'am is rnacly tn inform Llw school and the coun­try about Irish wonwn's lal'ross1) wlrnn it takos on Bosloll Coll1:gc 1111 Monday. 
"W1i as a tt\Hlll am looking to lwrnnll' nalionallv ra11kocl this sPason," co-ca1>tain MPgan Schmitt said. "W1· want lo pull off srn1111 upsnts this y1mr, and lwv1! a suc:cPssl'ul honw season lo draw !'ans lo our games." 
"Our t1•mn work1id really hard in tlui olT-smtson and wn havn tlH• l'on1s. cornmitmnnt and llnsir1• to linish w1ill above tho .500 mark lhis y1mr," co-cap­tain Knrry C:allalm11 said. 
lhb ypar's squad has nrnch in common with tho first tnam. It is primarily composed of' i1H•XpPriPr11·pd sophomore's and f'rnshm<•n. Callahan and Schmitt don't SPl!lll to mind the i,wxpci­ri('nn'. 
"It has ilPl'n rPally neat to watrh tl11• team grow and improvP." Callahan said. 
"IL is gri•at to play with the youngPr girls. they have great skills, and il has IH11rn fun to watch llw maturing process of our sophomorns," Schmitt addPCI. 
Although tlwsc women arc! 
irwxperinnced, (hny hring a grnat deal of knowledge as many of them were J\11­Americans in high school. 
This vear's team rnturns six startNs from ,L year ago, with 1111 of' thn curn~nt sophomoros starting snvornl gamns last ymtr. 
On tlrn attack. the team returns its fivo top scorers and sevnral key freshman. 
Leading the attack will Im Callahan, who led tlw loam in scoring last yoar with 30 goals and 20 assists. Callahan brings a solid game to the field. pos­sessing both passing skills and groat stickwork. 
"KPrry is a vnry good leadnr and has come a long way in the last two yea.rs. She will play a big role in our attack this srn­son," head coach Tracy Coyno said. 
Assisting Callahan will Im sophomorns Lael O'Shaughnossy, Courtney Calabresn, Maunt Doy!P. and Kathryn l'errPlla. Both O'Shaughrrnssy and Calabrese recorded 41 points as frnslmrnn and quickly became offensive focal p()ints. 
Calabros1\ was the loading goal scornr last year with 38 goals, including a seven goal pcrformancn against Gannon. 
"Our attack unit is intact with our lop scorers returning from a ynar ago, and this unit will be much strnngor lwcausc they havP all played together," Coyne said. 
Freshman high school AII­Arnnrican Alissa Mosnr will add to tlw attacking unit by bringing lwr hard work and speed to tlrn olfonse. Tim team will also look fo1· a spark off the bnnch from freshmen l'iatalin Loftus, Katherine Scarola, and Maurnen Whitaker. 

While Callahan provides the offensive leadership, Schmil.t will hn look(!d upon to lead tlrn del'cnsivp, elfort. 
Schmitt is joined on Urn defon­sive end by sophomore Sarah LaSueur. LaSueur was one of two l'roshmon who started every game last year . .Joining them on def'tmsc will be a core or fresh­m,rn who excelled in high school. 
Maureen Henwood and Kathryn Lam both garnered high school AII-Amorican hon­ors, while Tina Fedarcyk, Kimberly Hubeis and Hachel Turk will look to contribute. 
"Wr, have a good mixturo of' experience and freshmen on dofonsc," Coyne said. "Our rPturning starters will do a great job for us once again. Maurnnn llenwood earned a starting spot in the fall. and Tina Fedarcyk and Kathryn Lam have roally imprcissed us." 
Sophornorn Carrie Marshall, who started every game last year, has made great strides with help from new assistant coach Kathleen Ostar. 
"Carrie has improved tremen­dously," Coyne said. "Having Kathleen work with Carrie has really helped her and will bring out the best in her." 
This week the Irish travel south to play their first two gamns of the season. The team will face Boston College in Fairfax, Va., on Monday and on Thursday, thny travel to St. Petersburg to play the Richmond Spiders. 


¦ BASEBALL 

Irish head south to 
win one at the Alamo 
By ALLISON KRILL.A Auociace SportS Ediror 
The forecast looks promising f'Qr the Notre Dame b~tseha.11 team next wook in San Antonio, Tex. 
Not only are the weather rcpbrts calling for foir ski,,s and temperatures in the mid 80s, but things will be heating up on the diamond in the annu­al Irish Baseball Classic. 
After a strong showing against Southern Illinois in the final game nf the University of New Orleans Classic. the Irish (3•4) have another chance to improve before the Big East c:011.ferenc~ season begins. 
. During the eight-game stint in Texas, Not.re Dame will square off against some of tho stiffest competition yet. The Irish open with two games against Penn State, followed by games with the Ivy League's Y,de Ilulldogs o.nd the Universitv ofDallas. 
The Irish will then host the Nitta.ny Lions, Creighton and St. Mary's (Tei.) in their annual spring break Baseball Classic. 
But unfortunately for the Irish, they'll have .t() rely on $6meone other than senior catcher Jeff Wagner. The three-time all-liig East stand­out and Irish career home run leader may miss up to a month of the season with a broken foot. That leaves the bulk of catching duties to freshman Paul O'Toole. 
While Wagner's power num­bers and production will ho sorely missed, offensive output may not be too much of a prob­lem for the Irish. 

In the team's recent 14-11 win over New Orlnans, Notre Dame tied a school record with seven home runs. including two by designated hitter Matt Nussbaum. The last tinrn the Irish hit seven homers was in a 16-6 win at Boston College on April 5, 1998. 
The offensive output contin­ued with 15 runs against SIU, as junior Jell· Perconte went 4­f'or-4 with four runs scorod and two RBIs. Perconte, O'Toole and Brant List will be shoulder­ing th(} nrnjorit.y of the scoring load for coach Paul Mainieri's team in the absence of Wagner. 
Wagner's injury also puts an additional pressure on the pitching staff, which returns 11 of its top 12 pitchers from the 1998 staff that rank<~d 13th in the nation with a 4.02 EHA. 
Chris McKeown (1-0) leads the staff with a 0.00 ERA in seven and two-thirds innings this season. Alex Shilliday has been the workhorse of the staff thus far., tossing a team-high nine and two-thirds innings while fanning 11. 
But the multitude of fresh­men on the roster makes the early-season games even more valuable to the Irish. When the Big East tournament rolls around in late May, the Irish Baseball Classic may be, just a memory, but the experience sure won't be. 


page 12 
¦ ·MEN'S Cot.LEGE-BASKETBALL 

St. John's beats Rutgers, on to semis 

r 
Asrociatecl Pre~s 
NEWYORK 
St. John's got the win it needed to get the game it wants. 
The third-seeded and 10th­ranked Red Storm beat Rutgers 77-62 Thursday night in the quarterfinals of the Big East tournament, setting up a semifinal meeting with Miami, a team that beat them twice lhis season. 
Ron Artest had 22 points and Erick Barkley added 21 for St. John's (24-7), which pulled away in the second half with a 12-0 run. 
It will be the top four seeds in Friday night'R semifinals with top-seeded and third­ranked Connecticut against fourth-seeded Syracuse and the Red Storm against the sec• ond-seeded and ninth-ranked. Hurricanes, the only team to beat them twice this season. 
Sixth-seeded Rutgers (18­

-
12) was trying to reach the semifinals for the second year in a row but it couldn't stay with the hot-shooting Hed Sturm, who were 30-for-52 (58 percent), including'63 per­cent in the second half. 
The Scarlet Knights, who have to hope their 18victories are enough for an at-large bid. to lhe NCAA tournament, hung wtt1i,$t. John.'s for .2_Q minutes despite not having starting· freshman center Rashod Kent, who missed his 
. second. game after;bruising his knee in pratice on Tuesday. Freshman Dahntay Jones led_ the Scarlet Knights with 18 points, while Jeff Greer and Gooff Billet bad 11 each. Rutgers shot 37 percent (23­for•63). . Artost hit a three-pointer with 11:13 left to give St. John's the lead for good at 51­
49. That started the _run thnt saw the Red Storm score on five straight possessions before Billet made one free throw with 8:04 left. Ron Jessie followed that with a jumper and the Red Storm were up 62-50 with 7:47 left. 
It will be St. John's 10th semifinal i'l.ppcarance in 20 Big East tournaments and its second straight, having lost to Syracuse last year. The win also gave St. John's a. sweep of its three game$ Against Rutgers this season. 



Think·ofus 
as yourscliooJ bus. 
olidays, semester breakS or heading home for your sister's 
wedding, if going home means catching a plane at Midway or O'Hare, the best way to the airport is United Limo. 
Frequenl service, all day from campus gets you there on schedule. And when it's time to hi! the books again, we'll pick you up at the airport and bring you back to school. No hassles, no problems. 
For information and schedule consult your travel agent or call 

..,,. 
800-833-5555 
www.busvme.com 

IJNITFn 11~~0 
....... ···---¦¦ 'f ¦ "'-" 
Your Airport Connection, O'Hare &Midway, All Day... Every Day 
w 

-
The Observer• SPORTS Friday, March 5, 1999 
¦ WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Ivey to miss rest of postseason 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame junior guard Niele Ivey will miss the remainder of the 1999 post­season after suffering a torn anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) in her left knee. 
Ivey sustained tho injury during Notre DamP.'s 68-61 win over Rutgers in the semi­finals or the 1999 Big East women's basketball champi­onship in Picataway, N.J. on Monday. 
Ivey, a third-team All-Big East selection this season, was avoraging 13.2 points per game prior to the injury(fourth on tlrn team) and led the Irish in assists 
(191) and steals (74). 
A 1996 graduate of Cor Jesu. Ivey suffered a torn ACL in her right knee fivo grunes into the 1996-7 campaign, her freshman S8ason. 
Notre Dame, which finished third in tho final Big East reg­u \ ar season standings, advanced to the champi­onship ganrn of tho league tournament for tho third time in four seasons. The Irish are currently 25-4 overall and are eighth in the Associate P"ress and ninth in the USA Torlay/ESPN rankings. They have been ranked a school­record 14 consecutive weeks in the top 10. 
In lvey's absencfl, freshman Sharisha Hills will be relied on to the point for tlw Irish as they enter tlrn NCAA tourna­ment. Hills scored four points in the loss to Connecticut in Lhn finals of' the Big East championship. 

Tournament brackets will bn announced this Sunday at 5 p.m. on ESPN. Play will begin on March 12. 

Bringing It All Together 
Come Join the Student Body Government '99-'00 
Applications are now available in the Student Government office for 1999-2000 Office of the President Team positions 
Applications are due Wednesday, March 17, 1999 by 5 :00 p.m. in the Student Government office (203 Lafortune). 
A list of positions available is included with the application packet. 
Interviews will be Thursday, March 18, 1999 and Saturday,March 20, 1999. Please sign up for an interview when one picks up an application . 
Positions will be announced on Sunday, March 21, 1999 


Women's Tennis 
vs. 
Wake Forest 

Saturday, 
March 6th at3:00pm Eck Pavilion 
Men's Lacrosse vs. DENVER 
Friday,. March 6 at 7:00pm 
vs. AIR FORCE 
Sunday,-March 7 at 7:00pm 
WWW 
Friday, March 5, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 13 
¦ SWIMMING 
Irish look to be lucky leprechauns at Shamrock Classic 
By WES RICHARDSON 
\ports Writer 
Tim mm1's and womon's swim t1iams b(igin tho two-day Shamrock Classic, tho last m1~et oft.ho snason f'or most team mombors, today at Holls Aquatic Cnnter. 
Tim l'ocus of' the unsconid com­pnlition is on improving personal hnst limns. Tim nHwt givos swim­mnrs who did not go to their rnsp1ictivn confornnce meets a chanw to havn a dimadic end t.o tlw snason. 
For Irish swirnmnrs who have alniady co1111wtml in last W('Pk 's Big East 1·.hampionships, it is a chanrn fi,r i111provrn111mt in non­primary nwnls. Most important­ly, il i:; thP lasl. diancl' f'or swim­nwrs to qualif'y l'or tlw NCAA rhampionships. 
"I plan on swimming oven l'aslN al Shamrock," said Hay l·itzpatrkk. who in tlw final 
evirnt of the Big East champi­
onships, powf1red th~ 400 
freestyle relay tn a win, thus 
upstltting Syracuse by 0110 point 
for a second-place t11am finish. 
"The more chances you have to 
swim fast, the bettnr," he contin­
und. "I think the other guys have 
the same attitude." 
Fitzpatrick edged his way under the NCM championships consideration time at the Big East meet with a 1:39.12 in the 200-yard f'reestylci. lie hopes to drop n,rnugh time in that event and the 100-yard f'renstyln lo ·secure an invitation to the 
national mnet. 
Tho 23rd-rankod womon's tmun, having dcl'nndml its title in tlw Big East, has a number ol' swimmers who will look to improvP upon their considoralion times. These include Liz Barger and Allison N1iw11II in Uw butt.nr­fly ovonts, Kelly Ilecking in the backstrokes and Tiffany O'Brien in the 400 individual medley. 

Kristen Van Saun, whose 500 freestyle time is likely to earn an invitation, will lonk to add the 200 freestyle. 
Other l{opefuls include Scott Zumbach in the 200 individual medley and Dun Szilier in the 200 breaststroke. Both placed second in their respective evenl'> at the Big East meet. Szilier's time ol' 2:00.09 may already be fast enough for the men's first­ever invitation. 
Sophomore Carrie Nixon is tho only Irish swimmer assumd of a spot at the NCAA championships, arguably the nation's fastest meet nul">idn of the Olympics. At 
22.62 for the 50 freestyle and 
49.89 in the 100 freestyle. Nixon broke all Big East and Notre Dame records and earned two NCAA automatic times during the Big East meet. 
For those who did not compete last week, the Shamrock Classic is their chance to end tho season on a positive note. 
Kit's always an opportunity for guys who didn't make the Big East team to impress coaches and have some great swims," Fitzpatrick said. 
Brian Skorney did just that at last year's meet by breaking the University record in the 100 backstroke. 
Competition is expected to be thin, with only a handful of swimmers· attending from West Virginia and possibly Minnesota, according to Fitzpatrick. 
He attributed this to thtl timing of the meet: Since the liig East championships took place a week later than usual, most swimmers are already finished with their seasons. 
To ensure a competitive envi­ronment, the Irish men's coaclms have split up the team and cTeat­ed a North Quad vs. South Quad intra-squad meet, according to Mike Doyle. 

For the seniors, the weekend signals the last meet of year­round swimming careers that date back more than 10 years. 
"We want to just go out on a good note." Mike Doyle said. "It's the last meet for every senior. We're going lo end our earners and put out the best perfor­mance we can." 
Doyle noted that for nine seniors, burring an invitation to the NCAA championships, spring break will mark the transition from 144 official training days per yr.ar to zero. 
"You want it to nnd the right way. It'll be nice !\nding it at. 
homn h~.rn wit_h 1'..~1, the g~ys togetlrnr, hn said. I he senwrs arn going to put our lrnarts into it. This is the last chance for us to compn(n at the collegiate level. I'm not going to do anything else in my lil'e as compnl.itive as colle­giate swimming." 
-
John M. Marshall's, Inc. 
Established 1965 

Diamonds En.gagement Rings & Wedding Bands 18karat Yellow Gold & Platinum.. 
~ 

Thinking of purchasing a diamond? Choose wisely with inf onnation in our con1plimentary book, Diamonds Magnified, 186 pages, 2nd edition, hardbound. 
John M. Marshall 
Jeweler/ Gemologist/ Mineralogist 

Telephone: 287-1427 Monday -Friday, lOa.m. to 6p.m. KcyBank Building, Suite #101, South Bend, Indiana 46601 

¦ MEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Bland leads Miami over Georgetown 
Associated Press 

nals Friday night. 
After scoring the game's first 
NEW YOHK five points, Gnorgetown led 
Mario Bland and .Juhnny throughout, pushing night 
Hemsley brought No. 9 Miami 

points in front and opening a from behind in the last 9 1/2 34-30 margin at the half. 
minutes. leading the Bland scored the first three Hurricanes to a 65-54 victory Miami baskets of thn second over G1rnrgctown 

half and in Thursday 
.James got ­
night's quarterf'i­

the nnxt nal s of the Big 
threP as Urn East tournament. 
llurricanes Miami (22-5) 
caught the faces the winner 
lloyas justof Thursday 
over five night's late game 
minutes between No. to St. John's and 
into tlw second half, tying thn Hutgers in the Big East scmifi-game al 40.
~---. 

Bland's basket at 11 :53 gaveERASMUS BOOKS 1 Miami tlrn lead for tho f'irst 
•Used 
books bought and sold 

•25 
Calegari~ of Books 

•25,000 
Hardback and Paperback hooks in stock 

•Out-of-Print 
search ser,,ice: $2.00 

•Appraisals 
large and small 


Open noon to six 
Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 

Limn and the Ilurricanes pullml away gradually after that. 
Bland finislrnd with 19 points and nine rnbounds whilo I l1imsley had 18, including 4­l'or-7 on three-pointers and six t1>l)()t111ds. Tim .lanws. co-Big East !'layer of the Y1iar, had 12. 
.lunwPI Watkins anrl KP\'in Brasw(-11 !Pd (;Porg<•Lown (IS­Jfi I with I2 points <'Heh. 
1rIBllE ID) 
i 
IPAIBl1r1\fiIE 
Now Leasing For Fall 1999 
• Conveniently located 4 Blocks from Campus Student Lease Available 
• 

or One Month free rent with a year lease 
• Large 2~Bedrooms for under $500.00!! 
"The Best Value In Off Campus Living" 
Professionally Managed by Real Estate Management Corp. 

234-9923 
• 

page 14 The Observer• SPORTS Friday, March 5, 1999 
"He's mentally ready every expected to qualify. He _must ranks 10th all-time for foil time," Urick said of Karr. "l have a good weekend if the wins in a season. Following her


Hockey Fellcing
haven't seen a goalie since Irish arc lo qualify the maxi­freshman year, however, she I've been here play as many mum 10 fencers for nationals. made the transition to the epee
continued from page 24 continued from page 24 
games as he has and it just "Getting 10 fencers is tlrn in ordor to strengthon the team 
made a late-season charge l'or the final playoff spot. Before last weckPnd in Ann Arbor. wherr. Miami l!lst two games to Michigan, llrn Heel Hawks had gone 6-2-1. Included in those six wins wnrc two wins over sixth-place Ferris State and an overtime win against second-place Ohio State. 
One of the young players who has led his team down the strntch has been sophomore forward Jason Deskins. Currnntly. Deskins leads thr CCIIA with 25 goals. and has scored a goal in Pach of his last eight games. 
Miami and Notrn Dame have only met once this season, in January at the .Joyce Center. In that game, neither team managml to score through two periods of' play thanks to the heroics of Red Hawk goal­tender Andy Marsch, who made 23 saves in the first period alone. The Irish finally broke through with a third­period power-play goal f'rom Brian Urick and a latfl goal from Bon Simon sealed the 2-0 win. 
In recent weeks, however, the Irish have not benn able to use tlrn power play like they did earlier in the season to get the olfonse going to win tight games. 
"The power play is the key to our game," said Irish cap­tain Rrian Urick. "Earlier in the year .when tlw power play was dirking, we were scoring goals and winning games. That's the key to this weekend and the key to our team.". 
Despite a recent O-for-33 

-
slump, Notre Dame's power play is still the top unit in the CCI-IA, operating at a 20.3 per­cent clip for the season, 
One aspect of Notre Dame's game that has been steady all year long has been its play in goal. Senior Karr has started every game for his team this season, and he is the only goaltr.ndcr in the CCI-IA to have done so. 
After 33 straight starts, one ,night think that a goaltender would wear down mentally if not physically. 

.... 
Advance Ticket Sales Availabln ,ry
$4 00 •Atl Show$ Bolon) 6 pm .; . .1 6. 
• • Students •Senfors AnaiizeThis DIGfTAL R [1i:3J.215J4;"5. 7:JJ, l();(X) 
Cruei ll11En1lons A [12:00J 4;00, 7:10, 9;'.JJ [1250, 3'.10)5:3) 7:c-0. 1020 
an-,,, R 
[1:10}4:10. 720. 10:<:6 
Office Space DIGITAL R 
[1240. 3:15] 5:35, 81:6, 10:15 Rushmore R [12:15, 2:40] 5;25,8:15, 10:30 She's All That DIGITAL PG-13 [11:10, 1:50)4:15,6:50,9".20 
The Other Sim, DIGITAL PG-13 
[1:00]4:00. 7:00. 9:50 Blast F10m the Past DIGITAL PG-13 [11 :50, 2:3'] 5:10, 7:40. 10:10 My Favorite Martian DIGITAL PG 
[11:45. 2:00J 4:20. 6:45, 9:00 
200 Cigarettes R 
[12:30, 2:45]5:00. 7:25. 9:40 Payt,ock DIGITAL A [12:20.250}520,B:10, 10:40 
OctcberSky DIGITAL PG [11 :20, 1:45] 4::ll,7:15, 9:45 Message in a Botlle DIGITAL PG-13 
[10:S0.1:40j4:40, 7:45, 102', Prine,, afEgvpt DIGfTAL G Saturdayarx:!Suidayorfy[l1:00. 1:00] &Mng Pliva!B Ryan DIGITAL R 4:25,820 
~lnl..ove DIGITAL R [11:15.2:10}5:15.8;00. lQ:35 
shows how mentally strong he is 3:11~. how physically in shape he 1s. 
According to Karr, playing nvery game has not been a problem, but instead has helped him immensely. 
"I .feel line physically, in fact it's a huge plus mentally," Karr said. "It makes it a lot easier to worry about the team and just winning, and it gives you a lot more confidence." 
In 28 CCH/\ games this sea­son, Karr is third in the leagur with a 2.26 goals-against­average and tied for third with 14 wins and two shutouts. 
A three-point weekend will clinch Notre Dame's second home ice appearance ever in the CCIIA playoffs, and the first since the 1981-82 cam­paign. With an impressive 11­1-3 record on Joyce Center ice this year, it is obvious what an advantage it would be for the Irish to be home for the first round of the CCIIA playoffs. 
"I want to wear thcise white jerseys again," Urick said. "I th.ink it's a big advantage to play h(~rc. Travelling takes a toll on you towards the end of the year, and I'd rather not have to travel and play in our own backyard." 
"That's· what wn've been 
shooting for all year," Karr 
said. "If' you look back at the 
preseason coaches' polls, they 
picked us to finish around 
fourth in the league. We took 
that as a challenge upon our­
scivcs. It would be a great 
thing for us, obviously with 
our home record. We just love 
the crowd this year and it's 
been fun to play here." 
If the Irish do get home ice for the best-of-three first round series, they will have an inside track for qualifying for the semifinals, which are played at Joe Louis Arena in Detroit. 
If Notre Dame is able to 
advanf'.e to the semifinals and 
perhaps to the CCIIA final, 
that will increase Notrn 
Dame's chances of qualifying 
for the 12-team NCAA tourna­
ment, something no Irish team 
has ever done. 

FREE REFILL 
On Popcorn & Soft Drinks! 
StarTrek: Insurrection PG 12:00)4:30, 7:30, 9:45 
ASimple Plan R (1'.:,.JJ 4:15, 7:00, 9:40 
Varsity Blues R 
[2:15J4A5, 7:15, 9:35 
ONLY S100 AIIStioWtBefore6pm
• E\Jeryone • Everyday 
$1.50 All Evening Shows  ,;! b.  
Virus  R  
[2:20] 4:50, 7:30, 9:50  
PleasanMlle  PG-13  
[1 :15)4:20, 7:10, 9:45  
Mighty JoeYoung  PG  
[1 :20], 4:00, 6:50, 9:15  
TheWalerboy  f'G.13  
[2:00] 4:40 7:20 9:30  
Rugrats  G  
(2:10]4:3, 6:45, 9:10  
Enemy of the Slate  R  
[1 :30] 4:15, 7:00, 9:40  

Times in [bradlets] indicate Satrnday ard Sunday Matinees only 

ALL STADIUM SEATING • ALL DIGITAL SOUND 

SHOWPLACE 16 
Just West of Main Street on Chi ewa 

Students and Seni~rs s4_00 A;;-time 
. . . 

Championships team, while Szclle has won the Midwest Conference Individual title in addition to winning World Cup matches for his native llungury. Senior Steve Mr.Qua.de has also fenced well for the Irish all year. 
But with NCAA rules pro­hibiting more than two fencers qualifying per team at each weapon, at least two of these sabremcn will be fencing their last bouts of the 1999 season this wockrmd. 
"I don't know what is going to happen !with sabrcl," Auriol said. "We can take only two people. There arc some tough fencers out there. But we should get four guys in the top five. McQuade will be up there. It's going to be close." 
Tim men's epee tirnm also will be interesting to watch. Until last weekend, it appeared that All-American C.J. Jackson and freshman Brian Casas would be representing the Irish in Waltham. But last weekend, the sudden emergence of James GaiLher made the epne pie.turn a lot cloudi()r. 
Gaither defeated both Jackson and Casas to win the Midwest Conference Individual title. After not b<1ing on the team for the first semester and having a slow start to '99, going 19-1 7 in the regular sea­son. Gaitlrnr's success has beim a surprise. 
"lie came from nowhere," Auriol said. "lie had a slow beginning to the season but he fenced great last weekend. It will be interesting. lie has a shot at qualifying." 
With all the talent of the 
senior class, ironically, the fate 
of a title could rest on the 
shoulders of a junior. Foilist 
Chaz Hayes has fenced well 
this season but he must fence 
even better this weekend. lie 
will be seeded the lowest of all 
the men's fencers who are 
only chance we have to win it," /\uriol said. "If you want to have a shot at nationals you have to have 10 f'encNs. If WP get everyone, in lhon we can expect to do well at nationals. If' we miss -just O!Hl, the chance to do well will be lower." 
"He needs to fence well," foil captain Stephane Auriol said. "I think it is good f'or this conli­dence. It is good for him to help out tlrn rest of his team­mates. II' he foncns well and beats the other guys, we arP guaranteed to qua!i!Y all 10. So for his confidence it is impor­tant. He needs to fence well so he .is confident for the :-,.JCMs." 
Auriol will also be looking to improve this weekend after losing in the semifinals of tlrn Midwest Conference Individual Championships. 
"I hope I can rndeem myself after my loss," Strphanc Auriol said. "Ile got into my head a little bit wilh his antics. So I just nocd to relax and nol lPt him get to me. I just havP to fence the way I know how." 
On the women ·s side, tho same familiar faces should qualify for nationals. The team has been led all year by senior All-Americans Myriah Brown, Nicole Mustilli and Walsh and junior All-American Magda Krol. All four should qualify for nationals without much prob­lem. 
Foilists Brown and Walsh am three-time All-Americans. Both came to Notre Dame from llrn Indiana Fencing Academy. 
"When Myriah and Sara came, I knew they were going to be good," coach Auriol said. "I knew them from the club so I knew they would be gn~al assets to the team." 
Perhaps no one nxemplil'ies the team-first attitude of the senior class better than Mustilli. She beg,m her Notre Dame earner as a l'oilist. lier (,9 foil wins as a freshman 
She crnJoyed similar rosults as an epncist. winning 84 bouts as a sophomore before becom­ing a l'irst-t<'am All-American as ajunior. 
"She is just amazing," coach Auriol said. "She can fence sabre too. She is great in all three weapons. When wi: asked her to switch to epec it was no problem. She made tlw adjustment. She is a great competitor." 
While this weckc\IHI will lrn a cch\bration of thP accomplish­ments or many sr.niors. it will also be\ a f'arewcll to many oth­r.rs. Captains Tim Monahan and Nicole Paulina am both strong f'nncHrs who will most likely not qualify for the NCA/\s. 
Paulina is tlw foil learn cap­tain whose 21 (i career wins place her fifth all-time in foil wins at Notre Damn. Unf'ortunately, Walsh and Brown hav<' always plac.nd alrnad of' lwr at tlw qualifiers thus prev<\nling lwr f'rom ['euc­ing at·tlw NCAAs. 
Monahan is onr. of tlw mosl inspiring stories on this year's team. lie bngan his earner in the physical education pro­gram and moved up to become tlw captain of' this year's foil team. 
"Monahan is a spncial guy," coach /\uriol said. "lie canw up from tlw PE classns. lie has bc•Pn an inspiration. llis lead­ership is grr.at. Iii\ is a super guy. I wish we had morn guys like him." 
This weekend will be an emotional time for the entire 
team. 
"It is weird," Stephane Auriol said. "Especially for those that aren't going to qualify. It is going to be really weird fenc­ing my last tournament in the Midwest. 1 think i!'s been a good four years and we arn looking l'nrward to onding it with a championship." 

Looking for a great job for your senior year? 
The Alumni-SeniorClub is now accepting 
Bact~nd~r a.nd.iO,..J..iapplications. 
:A.pply,toda:y at/lie Stude.nt 
. ,,. ' ,,,--. ..· :---/..•·'.™···••.···;'.t...:':~•.·.·.·.·.·,.·.•.·..'.:.,\..,..··•.···.·.... ·.·.·.,••,.·..•.i.':..'·.•
!i)%:c·::::-:, --, , ·.. . 

Activities·•···office 
{31.5:•LaFQ~lltl~)
I" -.-.·· . -.·· 
for the bestjob on carilpitst1:;,;::,, 

Applicati.ons Ileadline : March 26 

.__________________..______:_ _,__:_:__:_-'-.L__..!._[___:__...:_~.:.__:___ _._________~~----­

Friday, March 5, 1999 The Observer• TODAY page l S SLURRED SPEECH DAN SULUVAN HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
H)XTROT 
SuPPoSE[)L'Y, If l'OU l'HRow 
A PLAY1Nc.; CARD Ai THE 
f'RoPER ANGLE, tT COMES 
••GHT BAC~ To To•. 
DILBERT 
Tl-\[5 CONCLUDES t-\'( 
PRt.5£.NTt,..TI.ON. f..R£. THERE AN'< QUE'£>H0N5? 


CELEBRmES BORN ON THlS DAY: Dean Stockwell, Andy Gibb, Samantha Eggar, Rex Harrison, Paul Sands, Marsha Warfield 
Happy Birthday! You're up for a very exciting and prosperous year ahead if you are accepting and eager to move with the times and jump from one thing to another. This will be a fast-paced year that promises to bring a multitude of changes. So get ready to move into high gear and don't be afraid to take a leap of faith if unfamiliar territory beckons you. Your numbers: 10, 16, 23, 35, 38, 44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Con­tracts and agreements formulated today will be a dead end. It is best to work on home--improvement projects or just make your domestic environ­

BILL AMEND 
ment more family oriented. 000 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't gc-t angry if your rruite doesn't understand rour needs. You will have to s~ll them out a little clearer using P3Sfiona.te persuasion. The last thing youwijllt lo do is ruffle f<;athers. 
,,
000 .,
~ 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20); You may be working with some pretty untrustworthy characters today. Don't be too eager to reveal any personal information regarding your­self or others who work with you. 
00000 
CANCER Uune 21-July 22): You can make a real difterence it you spend time finding out exactly whal 
:problems are facing the children in 
' '"fe, lc1l• un pursue your ere­,,, ol,'.·11 _ it ...'\·L, ~tL,!Jy if you 0 1.'l started. 00

Scarr ADAMS 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Expect to get opposition from your family. They ~~n,, -~ .:, 1 • .-· -,._ • ~ ha1 r:, ,rith yoJr latk of help or the amount of time that
HOW 00 l GET 
you spend elsewhere. You better be 


-n~t B0R£O0"\ OUT 0~ t-'\'f \..\E~O"?! ! ; 


¦. OF INTEREST 
'-'I •
. 
IL 

The Spelman College Jazz Ensamble will perform 
prepared with legitimate answers. 
000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You 
will be mnfuscd regarding appoint­
ments if you neglected to make a note 
of where you were supposed to be 
when. Take time to help a friend with 
problems. Be careful traveling. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. l3-0ct. 22): Take your responsibilities seriously. You mustn't rely on others to sort out your problems or lo do your work. G<>tting some rest or going for a massage will do you a world ofgood. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You 
will not be able to bully others into 
doing things your way. Spend some 
time improving your own image, not 
trying to change somebody else. You 
can make financial gains. 000 
SAGrn'ARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't be railroaded into spending money you don't have. It is best to do your own thing and not pay too much attcrµion to the extravagant things that others arc getting involved 
in.0000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22·J•n. 19): Don't let your chal\ge of position in an organization get you down. A change is as good as a rest, and you are ready for bigger and better things. Business opportunities look promising. 00 
AQUARIUS (J•n. 20-Feb. 18): Avoid confrontations. Chances are you haven't been doing your share of the work. Your thoughts have been on hobbies and educational "'1r­
suit&. It's timf' to mil 1Jn vot•r ~,p,_.,,,.~ , 
0(000 
PISCES (Feb. 19--March 20): Preg­nancy may be on your mind. GE t involved in social events ihlt wi!: bring yuu L.t Ct,11..dct wi~, J-'"~lJlc w!lv can motivate you a-eatively. You will desire unusual interests. 000 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Top stories 
7 Grafters' needs 11 Tolkien cannibal 14 Graft 15 From square 
one 16 Kind of patch 17 "Dialogues of 
the Gods" satirist 1e Least obscure 20 Insurance ploy 21 Pool tool 22 Climate of an era 24 Sing the blues 27 White-tailed birds 28 Surname separator 29 Fly over the Equator 
31 Georg Buchner's "Leonce and 
32 Cause of hereditary variation 
33 Dilbert is stuck on it 38 Inexorable process 39 Didn't stand pat 40 Frasier portrayer 41 Didn't malfunction 42 It may be lost or saved 46 Antidiscrimina­lion agcy. 47 Swinger, perhaps 49 Chump change in Chihuahua 52 Longshoreman 
" 

Monday, March 15, at 7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. Works by John Coltrane, Charlie Parker, Thelonious Monk. Dizzy Gillespie and Hogey Carmichael will be performed..The concert is free and open to the public.
l~~ !l---l _,i.....4L .,._.,,_---""'-,__..__~:,-:--'I! 

L----....:ll=-~.:...;i.a;,. ..J 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

~ 

Living in the Age of Possibilities 
A Lecture by 

Newt Gingrich 
Tuesday, April 13, 1999 Stepan Center
Tix on Sale Now at the Lafortune Box Office $6 StuJents (ND/SMC/HC} 7:30 pm $10 General Public 
IL----------.......--.-' 
53 Homer's "Eight Bells,"e.g. 55 Disqualify, as a juror 5& Muesli morsel 57 Paul Bunyan, at times 58 Passes 59 Fitting so Isa good Samaritan 61 Bow ties and others 

DOWN 
1 Like hell 
2 Band member, 
often 3Alarmbell 4 Sherwood's 
"--Delight" 5 Repeated word in "The Trolley Song" &Cambodian 
coin Puzzle by Ed Early 
7 Conversation 25 --au Haut, Me. steerers? 
26 Goalish glance a Not 1-Down 
29 Concern of 9 Judge some agencies 10Wasd1zzy 30 Popular picnic 11 Didn't 
dish 
malfunction 31 Unattended 12Hi--33 Decorator's 13 Russian blue, base 
e.g. 34 S-curve 19 Join again, in a 35 Move way 
36 Winter arrival 21 St. Catherine's 
37 One of a 
birthplace 
mythological 23 Physicist's study ennead 


42 Row 48 "Mefistofele" role
43Takeaway so Wildcats' org. 
44 Gentle slope 
with a 51 Picker-upper sudden 53 Buster preceder drop 
54 Fontaine filler 45 Go out 
55 One of 435, for 47 Made fun of short 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
This event is co-sponsored by the Department of Music, the African~American Studies Program, the Office of Multicultural Student Affairs, Campus Ministry and the Student Activities Office. 
THE OBSERVER 1s now accepting applications for 5,RJP and 
¦•·..-.:.·•I 
euf••ni~f~ for the JCICICl-2000 school year. Call Jni~/4,ette 
1--4542 
TAe, Sea,nJ llfy 
March 22, 1999 Washington Hall 
8:00 pm 

A traveling group of improv comedy actors, The Second City has been the starting point for many comedic actors, writers & directors. 
You' II laugh for hours! 
Tix on sale now at the Lafortune Box Office $4 Students (ND/SMC/HC) $7 General 
-
:cc"< 


¦ Notre Dame ¦ The Irish baseball swimming hosts the team travels to San Shamrock Classic at Antonio next week to Rolphs Aquatic Center compete in the Irish this weekend. Classic.












PORTS 
P· 13 p. II 
THE 

-------------------Friday, March 5, 1999
page 16 OBSERVER 

¦ TRACK ANO FIELD

¦ Hu1,;t:EY 

Brown, Grow lead
Icemen go Red Haw-k hunting 
By TED BASSANI Spores \'i/rire, 
With a win and a tif' this wr,ekcnd against the Red 1-Iawks or Miami University, Notre Dume can achieve something l'ew would have thought possible a year ago: home ice for the first round of the CCHA playoffs. 
Entering this weekend's two-game series at Goggin Ice Arena. Notre Dame needs throe points to assure itself or a fourth-place finish 

\ in the CCHA standings. Likewise, Miami is fighting for a playoff spot or its own as it sits one point ahead of Lake Superior State for the eighth and final playoff spot. ror the Hod Hawks. a win and a tir, against the Irish would also accomplish its goal of qualifying for the playoffs. According to Irish goal­tender Forrest Karr, the playoff implications of the series should make it an exciting one. "We' re both in the same position," Karr said. "They want to make the playoffs and we want home ice, so there should be a lot of intensity in the games." If the Red Hawks were a professional team, one might say that they are in a rebuilding year. Following last season's fifth-place fin­ish, Miami lost 10 letter-win­ners to graduation, including first-team All-American defenseman Dan Boyle. Despite being one of the youngest teams in the con­ference, the Red Hawks have 
see HOCKEY/ page 14 


tracksters at NCAAs 

By KEVIN THOMPSON Sports Writer 
The collegiate track and field elite will descend on the HCA Dome Friday and Saturday for the 1999 NCAA Indoor Track and Field Championships in Indianapolis. Ind. 
Notre Dame will send a six­man contingent to this year's com peti lion. 
The squad is split betwe,~n lirst.-time qualifiers and NCAA veterans. Mike Brown. Marshaun West, Antonio Arce and freshman Liz Grow will make their debuts at nationals. Juniors Jennifer Engelhardt and .Joanna Deeter are making return engagements. 
Brown. a senior and thre(\­time Big East champion in thci pole vault came up big last week at tlw Alex Wilson Invitational to earn a spot in th1) NCAA field. ln his final homci indoor meet, Brown posted an astonishing 17-foot-6-inch vault to launch him into the finals. 
The mark broke Brown's own school record and the Alex Wilson Invitational record. The vault put Brown in the top 10 in the nation going into this week­end. Brown's mark of 17-l'P.et-3­inches is the Notre Dame out­door record. 

-
Star sprinter and long jumper West will head to the champi­onships focused. West qualified in both the long jump and 200 meter events. After careful con­sideration, West has opted to 
concentrate on the long jump. His mark 25-feet-6-inches at the Red Simmons Invitational estab­lished a school record. 
Senior Antonio Arce will make
The Observer/Kevin Dalum 
his debut at the indoor champi-
David Inman leads the hockey team as it takes on Miami tonight. 
onships in tho milr, run. llis time of 54:05 at tlw Alex Wilson Invitational launched him into the NCAA field. While this is Arce·s first appearance at the track charnpionsl1ips, ho has competed three times at the NCAA cross-country champi­onships. 
Another cross-country star will compete at this weekend. /\ 1998 cross-country AII­Amcrican, Dcnter will compete in the 5,000 meters in Indianapolis. 111 her only indoor mnet of the season, Deeter ran to a school record of 16-min­ules, 22.i,4 seconds, placing her first at thr. Big East champi­onships two weeks ago. This is Dlietcr·s second-straight appearance al nationals. Thr. junior finislwd 15th at last year's nvcnt. 
From a highly-toutnd frnsh­rnan class, Liz Grow will rnpre­sent the Irish in tlrn 400 meters. Grow ran a 54.05 seconds at the /\lr.x Wilson invitational last week. the 12th-l'astest lime in the nation this year. 
This marks the second time the freshman has broken the school record. She broke her own record of 54.89 seconds in January in a dual meet with Indiana. 
Rounding out the Notre Dame squad. will br, .Jennif'er Engelhardt. The high jumper will be making her second trip to the compr,tition. In 1997, Engelhardt became the first evr.r Notre Dame All-American in a field event with a ninth­place finish as a freshman. Now in her junior season. Engr,lhardt has already posted a 5-feet-10 ­inches mark and is one of many to watch this weekend. 


¦ FENCING 

Irish hope for 10 qualifiers at Midwest Regionals 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Sports Writer 

Four years of training, four years of sweat. four years of· victories all conrn down to three final weeks. 
The Class of 1999 has pro­vided the Notre Dame fencing team with 204 wins, 12 All­American letters and one indi­vidual national tit!P. One would think that this class could leave the Univer!;ity right now and have nothing more to prove; except for one thing. 
"I am tired of being the bridesmaid," All-American Sara Walsh said. 
The Class of 1999 has never won a national championship. In three trips to the l\JCAA championships, the Class of '99 has finished second all three times. 
"We still haven't won the 
nationals yet," said head coach Yves Auriol, who was honored at halftime of last weekend's men's basketball game for winning his 400th career victo­ry. ".'!'fe have to do it this yfmr. 
Heading into the NCAA Midwest Regional Qualifiers this wr,ekend. all signs point to this being the year that the seniors finallv win the title. Freshman an·d juniors have stepped up this year to comple­ment the seniors at almost every weapon. 
The men's sabre tr,am. led by 1998 national champion Luke Lavalle, has befm dominant all year. Freshmen Gabor Szelle and Andre Crompton have brought World Cup experience to the team. Crompton is on track to make the U.S. World 
see HOCKEY/ page 26 


The Observer/Kevin Da!um 

Captain Tim Monahan (right) will lead the Irish for the last time on the strips at Cleveland State this weekend. 
vs. Indiana NCAA Track and Field
~ 

';;:;:;:;,,' Today, 3 p.m. Championships

SPORTS 
Sr 

Today-SarnrJay Men's Baseball 
-ATA vs. Penn State vs. Wake Forest Saturday, 3 p.m. 
ar Miami 
"

ti) Saturday, 11 a.m. ~ Today, 7 p.m. 
GLANCE 



