
¦ Coverage of the Pope's visit co St. Louis 
¦ The Observer previews the perennially popular 
Thursday
and the Mass he celebrated in the Trans 
Keenan Revue. 
World Dome. 

JANUARY 28, 
News• 3 

Scene• 14 
1999 
THE 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 77 WWW. ND.EDU/~OBSERVER 
IN LONDON 

Editor '.r Note: On Friday, Feb. 5, the Board ofTrustees will meet in London to discuss, among other issues, Notre Dames position 011 joining the Big Ten and the possibility ofadding the protectio_n ofsexual orienta­tion to the University snon-discrimination clause. Throughout the days leading to that meeting, The Observer will take a comprehemive look at the history and people behind these two issues as well as possible ramifications of decisiom that the board might deliver. 


By JOEY CAVATO 
Associate Sporrs Editor 

Next Wednesday Notn~ Dame head foolball coach Hob Davie and his staff will gr.t sonrnthing tangible from all those long flights lraveling across the 
country, miles in r-llil\l"!'lill'ill"lii•ill~lij\1-,
rental cars and nights 

spent in hotel rooms _. "ND's 'indu­i n towns f'rnm Rig sion' not Stone Gap, Va., to unusual" 
Seattle, Wash. 

That reward will P·8 come in the form of signatures from some of the best high­school athlotes in the country, repre­senting their intent to accept scholar­ships to the Uniwrsity of' Notre Dame. 
On Feb. 5, a decision made across the Atlantic could change Notrn Dame football and affect that recruiting process. 
The 1998 version of Notre Dame football included 27 players from Big Ten country and 78 outside, with a sig­nificant number of players from rncrniling hotbRds such as Florida, Texas and California. 
By comparison, Michigan's 1998 foot­ball team had 69 players from Big Ten slates with 39 from outside tlrn Big 
Ton. Forty-one of Michigan's players see RECRUITING/ page 4 
were home grown. 

Bob Chmiel, the coordinator of foot­ball operations who dirncts all admiuis­trative asrwcts of the Notre Dame rncruiting procnss, said that that recruiting process will not chango, 
"As far as the linguistics go and evnrything nlsn,·wti wouldn't change our approach," Chmiel said. "Hncruiting conws down to two things: hard work and m1thusiasm." 
But several players foe! that ii' Notrn Danrn joins the Big Ten, it may lose some of its national appeal. 
"I dnf'initely think we would ho known more as a Midwest school limn a national school," freshman defensive lineman Tony Weaver said. ".Joining a conference will make us likn nv<wvmrn else, average. I think we need to ·d,~fi­nitely keep our individuality." 
That. indnpnndonce gives Notre Damn tough, varind schedules and mini-rival­rins with teams scattered across Urn nation. In upcoming seasons, Notre Dame will play both Nebraska and Tennessee -but if tlrn Irish join tlw Big Ten, thn nccnssity of lncaliwd eon­forencc play would mak11 more of thosn high-profile match-ups unlikely. 
This year's senior class played in I :1 



Krupa named new Observer editor-in-chief 
By SARAH J. HILTZ 
Assoriatl' New, F.dirnr 
With almost t.hrm• years of exptirinnce in Thn 0hs11rvPr 1wws departmrnl. Michelle Krupa was l!ll!l'lnd Nlitor-in-chiel' of The Observer l"or 
Uw I '>1J1J-2000 year by a votn ol' tlw 1wwspapcr's Cn1wral Board W1·d1wsday night. 
Krupa, a junior from /\rlinglon Ilcights, Ill., liv1is in Md;Iinn llall. /\n /\nwrican studios and spanish douhln­major in Llw Collogn or Arts· and f.PllPrs, Krupa plans to 

pursun a earner as a rnport11r Krupa and possibly an editor for a 
major newspaper. 
'Tm so excited about the opportunity to be i11volvcrl in all l'actlls of The 0bs11rvtir," said Krupa, who has been The ObsHrver's news edi­tor since August. ''l'vo been working toward this since my freshman year." 
see KRUPA/ page 8 


¦ STUDENT SENATE 

Senate against joining Big Ten 
By TIM LOGAN 
Associate News Editor 

Tim Studnnt Sr,natn sent a strong message to the Hoard of Trustees Wednesday when it voted unani­mously to recommend that the Bnarcl reject Big Ten membership f'or Notre Dame. 
/\ft()r considering issues of acade­mics, athletics and Notre Danrn's institutional character, the mem­bers roached a consensus that the University should work to maintain its undergraduate focus and its national identity. The senate also deciclocl that membership in thn mg Ten and its acadnrnic coalition, thn Consortium on Institutional The Observer/Kevin Oalum Cooperation, would be detrimental Big Ten committee chair Pat Roy addressed the Student Senate last night. The 
senate unanimously voted to recommend Notre Dame reject Big Ten membership. 
to that mission. 

"I think we've got a pretty good Strnators agreed that tho poton-have pointed to the improved pos­thing going here, we shouldn't tial exists for a significant decrease sibilities for rnsearch as a strong mess with lhat," said Siegfried sen­in the focus on undergraduate edu-selling point of CIC membership. ator Tom 0gorzalek. "We shouldn't cati()n if Notre Dame joined the While the Faculty Senate voted embark on a path that might lead CIC, a coalition of schools 25-4 in December Lo support join· us down a slope in the wrong renowned for their research direction." prowess. Supporters of the change see SENATE I page 4 
page 2 
¦ INSIDE COLUMN 

It's a squirrel 
\Vorld after all 
·1 was walking 

Josh Bourgeois 
around campus yes­

Wire Editor
terday, and I noticed that there were many more squirrels out than usual. There were a group of squirrels in particular who were running around North Quad like they were searching for something. Being the curious and somewhat bizarre person I am and my plain affixiation with squirrels on this campus, I began to wonder what would cause these squirrels to be in such a hurry. Let me share with you my thought process during this time. It went something like this ... 
I wonder what squirrels do during the winter. I'm sure that there arc scientific responses to this inquiry, but what if the squirrels here have been inDuenced by us and established a society similar to Notre Dame? In other words, what if the squir­rels· society mimicked Notre Dame's soci-. cty? If this was true, what would their world be ·like? 
Most importantly, what would these sqirrels do for fun? Would they congregate at different spots around campus, hang out, dance a little. and maybe even sip out of those half-empty beer cans we find around campus after a typical weekend here? Would these places be called "bars" to them? Ilow much beer would it take to get a squirrel drunk? Is there a law about climing trees while a squirrel has drank? Would some bars be popular on Thursday nights and others on the weekend? Would a squirrel have to be a particular age to join in the fun at these "bars"? Would there be some "bars" where the Notre Dame squirrels hang out and others where the "townie" squirrels hang out? 
Let's say a squirrel had to be a year old to enjoy the bar atmosphere. Would squir­rels that were almost one year old claim that they were both older than they really were and from a different forest just so that they can get into these bars? What would happen if a group of squirrels got into trouble because they were caught using false identifications for themselves? 
On the other hand, I'm sure many female squirrels could get into these bars if they did not mind shaking their bushy tails a bit. Wouldn't all male squirrels at these bars who card these female squir­rles be suckers for these beautiful tails? Why is it that female squirrels have it eas­ier than male squirrels? 
What if a squirrel was not into hanging out at these "bars"? Would they have any­thing to do'? Would there be other places where underage or other squirrels could meet? Probably not. All of the other squirrels would be out at the bars. So, if you wanted to be with your other furry friends. then you would have to at least attempt to go to these places. What if the squirrels ... 
Forget it! The squirrels were probably just searching for some nuts. You might ask why I have such an obsession with squirrels. Truthfully, I do not know why these furry animals intrigue me. 
But just think about what those squirrels are HEALLY doing next time you see them running like a chicken with its head cut­off. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of lhe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
¦ TooAv'S STAFF  
News  Scene  
Laura Pe1elle  Loubel Cruz  
Lisa Maxbauer  Graphics  
Tom Enright  Pete Cilella  
Josh Bourgeois  Production  
Sports  Kerry Smith  
Bill Ifart  John Pennacchio  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Eddie Llull  Monica Gana  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhmugh Friday except during exam and vac:uion periods. TI1c Ohsc:rv<:r i~ a mcmbu of {he As:.ocia{cd Press. All reproduction rights art" reM:n,ed. 
The Observer• INSIDE Thursday, January 28, 1999 






utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Dartmouth targeted by anti-affirmative action campaign 
HANOVEH, N.H. 
selection does not necessarily mean 
A conservative public-policy firm that CIR is accusing the College of placed full-page advertisements in having illegal admissions policies. approximately a dozen campus news­College President Jamr,s Wright papers across the country, including defended Dartmouth's admissions Dartmouth's, yesterday with the policy. asserting that any accusation hoadline "Guilty By Admission" accus­that the College is in violation of ing "nearly every elite college in racial preference laws would be America" of violating affirmative "incorrect." action laws when making admissions "We're not in violation of any law decisions. the University of Pennsylvania. and we are going to continue 
The ad, placed by the Washington­According to the center's Senior at Dartmouth to admit a rich and based Center for Individual Rights, Counsel Terence Pell, CIR targeted diverse student body," Wright said. urges students to download or send these particular schools because, 'Tm not at all uncomfortable with away for a free handbook on how to according to a study conducted by the the process we use in admitting stu­investigate their colleges' adherence Center for Equal Opportunity, race dents." to Jaws on race and admissions. The plays a larger role in admissions Wright emphasized that Dartmouth handbook also details what students selection at more competitive institu­has been striving to admit a diverse can do if their institutions are in vio­tions. student body since it was established'. lation of those laws. Pell said that the colleges chosen for "Dartmouth has made it clear for a 
The new ad campaign specifically ad placement were sc.lccted to repre­very long time that diversity and affir­targets 15 high-profile colleges, sent a variety of institutions, and that mative action are very important including three Ivy League schools -0artmouth was not chosen for any here. It has been an ongoing commit­Dartmouth, Columbia University and specific reason. He said Dartmouth's ment," Wright said. 
¦ UN!VEHS!TY OF fLORIOA  ¦ UNIVERSITY OF WiSCONS!Nw MADISON  
Dorm life broadcast on Internet  Students express concern about prof  
GAINESVILLE, Fla.  MADISON, Wis.  
Eight students attending New England colleges will have  The sentencing of UW-Madison Proressor Leon Shohet to  
their lives broadcasted in real time over the World Wide  three months in prison for falsifying grant requests leaves  
Web beginning Monday, and those launching the program  his engineering students in the unusual situation of chang­ 
plan to expand it to Florida and across the country. The  ing professors after the semester's start. According to  
student-run company, CollegeWeb.com, hopes to provide a  Willis Tompkins, chairman of the department of electrical  
true-to-life picture of college life by capturing constant  and computer engineering, Shohet is currently scheduled  
snapshots of students' activities and posting them on  to continue teaching until his prison term begins Feb. 19.  
WebDorm, http://www.webdorm.com. "It doesn't get any  After that time Engineering Professor Amy Wendt will  
more accurate than this," said Alex Chriss, founder of  take over the class. Tompkins said. "The professor who is  
CollegeWeb.com. Photos will be captured every 30 seconds  taking over has a lot of experience teaching this class,"  
by QuickCam VC digital cameras located in the students'  Tompkins said. "She is a great teacher." But students are  
bedrooms. The site will broadcast the pictures 24 hours a  concerned about changing professors after the semester  
day, along with biographical information about the stu­ has begun. "It will be weird changing professors halfway  
dents. Company spokeswoman Allison Mahoney said  through," junior Shannon Fogel said. Senior Matt Genack  
WebDorm.com is a valuable resource for high school and  agreed with Fogel about the difficulty of changing profes­ 
college students. "It will give prospective students an idea  sors mid-semester. "He seemed to be pretty knowledge­ 
of what it's like to be in a college dorm," she said. •  able," Genack said. "It's kind of disappointing."  
¦ Omo UNivrnstrv  ¦ UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA  
University attacks hate crime e-mail  Long-haired student denied court case  
ATHENS, Ohio  LINCOLN, Neb.  
Hate crime hit home for some Ohio University students  NU College of Law administrators and professors found  
and employees when they checked their e-mail earlier  themselves tangled with a hairy issue Tuesday after one of  
this week. The Ohio University Police Department is  their students was denied permission to argue misde­ 
attempting to find an alleged e-mail hacker, who  meanor cases in court this semester. Thayne Glenn, a  
accessed an OU graduate student's e-mail account and  third-year NU law student. was told he could not partic­ 
posed as that student to send a hate message to students  ipate in the Criminal Clinic offered through Lancaster  
and employees at OU's main and regional campuses,  County, Attorney Gary Lacey's oflice unless he cut a sub­ 
OUPD officer George Anderson said. The message, which  stantial part of his shoulder-length hair. Some NU profes­ 
called gays, lesbians, and bisexuals "disgusting" and  sors are questioning whether students can be discriminat­ 
"ugly as sin," threatened to send a "gay beaters club" to  ed against based on their appearance, though Lacr,y  
their homes. 0UPD officers have not found evidence that  stands behind his decision. "I understand (Lacev's) ratio­ 
the OU student's account was accessed without permis­ nale. It's a very consr,rvative establishment." Glenn said.  
sion. OUPD has no suspects and has not charged anyone  "However, this has become an isswi ol' principle." Glr,nn  
in connection with the e-mail message, Anderson said.  has never met Lacey. "lfp made his decision. and I made  
But he said that it is possible to type in another person's  mine," Glenn said. "I wasn't going to cut my hair." When  
e-mail address and access another person's account to  contacted by the Daily Nebraskan. Lacey would not com­ 

send mail. 

5 Day South Uend Forecast 

AccuWea1her®forecas1 for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
H  L  
Thursday{)  45 25  
Friday,  i)­ 41  23  
j  
Saturday  ~  32  21  
Sund~y  {)  39 35  
Monday.,~r,s-~·,"'-,, /~ .,\,,·'  40 30  

Q.,Q-,~46.fQ  n  ~ u  
Showers T-sforms Rain  ,:1urries  Snow  fee  Sunny  Pt. C1oudy  Cloudy  
ViQ As$0c1a.1erf Press Graptuc.sNer  

thent on his reasons for not letting Glr,nn attend the clinic. 
¦ NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Thursday, Jan. 28. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
20s 


Pft'j~LJrt: 
.JI-<,

® © D . ~ . D. . 1,.,l ~·'•...., ~ 
High Low Showers Aaln T-slorms FlurrlH Snow Ice 
Sunny _P~C~u~~~~y 
Via Associated Pntss  
Atlanta  70  51  Dallas  55  51  Miami  81  70  
Baltimore  56  44  Denver  39  17  New York  44  38  
Baton Rouge 75  56  Honolulu  79  70  Phoenix  61  39  
Chicago  32  30  Indianapolis  47  41  St. Louis  43  41  
Columbus  53  43  Los Angeles  68  46  Witchita  40  30  


Thursday, jalll!ary 28, l999 The Observer• NATIONAL NEWS page 3 

John Paul II visits St. Louis 
By BETH MAYER Nt·W\ \X'ritcr 
ST, 1.0UIS 

,\11xio11s l'or lwr studPnls to ~,.,, l'11p«-,John Paul II in pnrson. Mal'y BPth MPffll look a sizalllt• gamhk 
llold111g j11sl two lirk1•ts in hand, MPc:ra brought SPVP!l stu­d,·nls lo SI. 1.ouis from tlvPrland Park. ~an .. in th1• hopP lhat llw gnod spirit sur­ro1111cli11g tlw papal visit might !iring a littl" lul·k her wuy ­a1Jcl sl11• lui-k{'(l out. 
"\Vp round w<lra tirknls l'rom fll'OJ>IP," slH• said. "And WI' hugg.-cl PYl'ry 1ml' of' tlH'm." 
Sp,•ctalors and volttnlPors arrivPd at tlll' Tra11s World llo11rn as ,iarly as l :]O a.ni,. PHgPr l'nr ii ~limpsc• of' lh,i Pope art,·r nirw months or planning a11CI anticipation. 1\11cl at 9:!i8 a, m,, tlw payoff canw. 
In f'ront ol" l l0.1100 worship­JH•rs WPdllt\Sday. l'op1i John Paul II slowly walkt1d lo lhE' maknsbift altar in the Dome and prl'sidNl ov,~r a Eudrnrist.ic c,~IPbration bdorn returning to Horrw lalPr in the evt>ning. 
Tlw cPll\hration was tho largesl indoor Mass ever cele­


brated in llw Unitnd Statns. The Pope's entrance was began. centered around the family. He "Vivo ii Papa!" the homily drew And as soon as images of' the greeted with camera flashes St. Louis Archbishop Justin stressed that parents are fully to a close with the Pope's final Popn arriving appeared on combining for a bright strobe Higali welcomed the Pope supported by the Church and appeal to the congregation. hugP semens. a hush fell over effect. and spectators chanted. under a 45-foot replica· of the society. lie urged everyone that on llw crowd, It was thnn that "John Paul II. We Love You!" Gateway Arch and a suspended The loudest applause during the eve of the Great Jubilee of Monsignor Paul Swain "knew llis Holiness circled several Cross. the homily was after the Pope 2000, "Christ is seeking you that something great was going convontion areas in the , "For months we have prayed said, "As the family goes, so out. Is this not the moment for to lmppm1," America's Center beforn Mass for your health and good goes the nation." you to experience the joy of' 
The Pope spoke about sui­returning to the Father's cide, abortion and euthanasia, house'?" saying that the acts wero a Waiting f'or his !light back to "terrible rejection of God's Madison, Wisc., Bishop of love," and that "the Church Wisconsin, William Bullock needs followers of Christ who reflected on tlw Pope's 31-hour are unconditionally pro-life." visit to St. Louis. 
Hacism is a prevalent prob­lln will always romomlrnr lem in St. Louis, and the Pope sePing the Pope "look up and pointed this out. respond to the faith of the p110­
"[Tlhere remains another pl11 -Urn glnam in his nyes. the great challenge facing this com­crack of a smile." munity of St. Louis -and the Bullock. a 1948 Notrn Danw whole country: to put an end to graduate who rnc1!ivml his mas­ev.iry form of racism, a plagtrn ters in Tlrnology and Hnligious which your bishops have called Study from Notrn Darne in one of the most persistent and 1963, also had a nrnssagP for destructive evils of the nation," collngn students. he said. "The Church welcomes thmn, 
Interspersed with two cough­and wants to work with tlwm. ing fits from the Pope, and IThn Church! will knnp opening shouts from the audience of the door," lrn said. 


page 4 The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, January 28, 1999 
Recruiting 
continued from page 1 
different states ranging from Hawaii to Massachusetts, and even crossed the Atlantic to play Navy in Ireland. 
"National recruiting is a big part of Notre Dame football," said 1998 tri­captain Mike Rosenthal. "When we do play a national schedule it lets kids from California and other places play around their hometowns so their par­en,ts can see them play. The way we do it now, to play a national schedule docs appeal to a lot of kids around the ctiuntrv." 
It appeals to kids like Arnez Battle from Shreveport. La., located in the heart of South1rnstern Conference (SEC) torritory. 
"I believe we would lose some national recognition because we won't get to play teams like Arizona State and Louisiana State," Battle said. ''It would be all Midwestern football and I believe that will hurt us a little bit." 
Even if Notre Dame joins the Big Ten, Davie and his staff will still be making those trips to California, Texas and the rest of the South. 
"We'll go wherever it takes to find the finest players that are also a good match for Notre Dame," Chmiel said. "There arc schools in the Big Ten that recruit nationally. I don·t think you would have to change the demograph­ics of recruiting." 
The question remains: will the Irish be able to sign those players with such frequency? 
Battle, who also considered Nebraska and SEC schools Georgia, Tennessee and Auburn, indicated that recruiting on a national level could be more difficult for Notre Dame, espe­cially without a national television eontract. 
"It would be tougher for Notre Dame to get people in the South because I didn't really know much about the Big Ten," Battle said. "I couldn't really tell you who was in the Big Ten because I grew up watching Notre Dame being independent and i.he SEC teams like Florida, LSU and Georgia. Those were the games we get on television down South. If you're from California you wonId watch Pac-10 games." 

Notre Dame recruiters have been able to lure kids across the nation with the attention the NBC television con­tract entails and a contract with the 13ig East that allowed Notre Dame entrance into lhe Gator Bowl. 
"That (\\iBC contract] is what gave 1\Jotn' Dame an edge over a lot of team -that they were on national telcvi­sio n evorv week," Battle said. ~ Athletes across the ·country watched them play every week." 
"As Jong as wo have tho NBC con­tract and as long as we have the sec­ond-tier bowl alliance with the Big East, 1 think those two issues puts us in an enviable position across this country as an independent," Davie told the South Rend Tribune. "We've got so much t.o sell. I like going in those living rooms [of rer.ruits]. We have some­thing different to sell. As long as you have something to sell that's different you have a tremendous opportunity. You can see that in the results we're having in recruiting." 
The current r.orps ofrccruits back up Davie's statement. Of lhc 19 verbal commitments thus far for the Irish. three arc from Big Ten states. 
California native Mike McNair, who chose Notre Dame over USC, feels that Davie and his staff would still have an easy product to sell be~ause of the NotrP Dame reputation. 
"I'm not really sure [if being in the. Big Ten will hurt Notre Dame's nation­al recruiting]." McNair said. "Notre Dame has a name for itself if it is inde­pendent or if it is in the Big Ten." 
"We talk to young people about the opportunity to play in a lot of different venues across the country," Chmiel said. "The great appeal is the great tradition of Notre Dame and the great education that an individual receives when he comes here. Is the opportuni­ty to play a lot of different places a fac­tor? Yeah, but I don't think it's the most important factor." 
For Battle, Weaver, McNair and Rosenthal, the decision to attend Notre Dame did come down to those other factors. 
"Mainly it was the .icademics and the tradition involved with this school," Weaver said who also consid­ered Syracuse, Miami, Michigan and Wisconsin. 
"It's a known school world-wide," Battle said. "Just having the name can takt> you a long way academically and athletically." 
"I wanted to be able to say that I graduated from Notre Dame," McNair said. "That really affects people when you say that." 
Players cited other reasons aside from pure academics and athletics. including the type of pf'ople that come to Notre Dame. 
"'I came to Notre Dame because of' the coaching staff and the guys on the team,'' said Rosenthal. who picked the Irish over UCLA, Colorado, Michigan and Penn State. "I felt like the guys on the team really welcomed me in and it was a family and it is a tight knit group and that's what appealed to me. 
Said McNair, "One mason I wantPd to come here was because of the kind of players that go here are a lot diffor­ent than the kind of players that go anywhere else. The spirit and tradition really got me and coming to practice and seeing how everybody is really spirited and they all get along.·• 
Regardless of the decision in London Feb. 5, the !'ocus of Davie and his staff with regards to recruiting will not waver. 
"The decision will be made with the best interests of Notre Dame in mind," Chmiel said. "It will be made by people who are very well-versed in what's good for Notre Dame and I'm certain thev will research this to the hilt bef~re any decision is made. Whatever decision that these people 1nake will be the direction we'll move in with confidence." 

Senate 
continued from page 1 
ing tho Consortium on account uf member­
ship's research benefits, its student counter­
parts chose to value a different side of the 
educational equation. 
"Notre Dame is about undergraduate edu­
cation, that's why I,came here" said Dillon 
senator Jason Linstcr. "l don't want to see my 
education suffer so that we can get higher 
[U.S. News and World Heport] rankings." 
Another issue discussed by senators related 
to Notre Dame's national identity, both in 
academics and athletics. 
Several members mentioned that the Big 
Tnn schools are by nature defined by their 
Midwestern locations, and most arc very 
focused on the region. Meanwhil<i, Notre 
Dame's· national athletic schedule allows 
alumni all over the country to see the Irish 
play. 
"Quite frankly, we do regionalize our ath­
letic program if we join the Big Ten," said Pat 
Foy, chair of the Big Ten committer,. 
Foy also pointed to the large national fol­
lowing of so-called subway alumni which 
Notre Dame developed by playing other col­
leges throughout the country, and discussed 
how that athletic support crossed over into 
support for tlrn University and interest in it 
a<:adcmically. 
The motion will also be considered by the 
Campus Life Council on Monday. A final deci­
sion on Notre Dame's Big Ten membership 
wil I likely conrn next Friday. 
In other Senate news: 

• Student body president Peter Cesaro delivered his State of' the Student Union Address Wednesday, focusing on his adminis­tration's accomplishments thus far and plans for the re-st of the term. 
"These are the golden times at Notre Dame," he said. "The Student Union is mov­. ing forward with vigor because of' our collab­
oration to make students' lives better." 
Encouraging collaborative study opportuni­ties, promoting eating disorder awareness and formalizing student involvement in the commencement speaker selection process were among Cesaro's proposals for the next three months. 



Thusd:iy. January 28. l 999 

Military rule ends in Honduras 
ru;uc:H;ALPA. llondurns 

ll1\citdPs ol' military dominan<:<: l'ormallv Prl(IPd v\'t>clrwsdav wl;Pn tlrn llondur:tn <'on1­111a111h,r-in-cl1i1•( t11.1wd 11vPr conlrol ol' tlrn arnll'd l'or<·1,s to a civilian prcsid1•11L Brig. Ci•n. Mario llung l'arlwrn handnd his baton 111' command to l'rnsillonl Carlos Flon•s Faruss.-. rnw day afl.Pr ltw llonduran l1•gislai.l1rt> votl'd u1rnni111ously lo end mon, than 41 Yt>Hrs of military autonomy. l,1>gislntors from livP partks 011 Tuesday rati­f'iPd <'011stiluLiorwl rnl'orms approv1,d in S,·pH•mh,.r that PliminatP th(• position of r,111H1w1HIN-in-rhiPI' ol' t.lw army and disband tl11• S11pPrior Council. tlw wµ military body. Stripping r·o11lr-ol from a oncP-pmvPrl'ul mili­tary that for drcad1,s had topµIDd govPrn1111•111s "was tW('nssary to st.rnngtlwn our rotmlry's df'lllOIT,U'.y," Horc,s said. 
Livingston declares Feb. 28 as date of resignation 
WASI IIN(;TON 

lll'p. Boh l.ivi11gst1111, who last month madn tlu· surpris1• dPrision to leavn CongrPss just wP1•ks bdon• hP was to bcconw spnaker of llw llousP, sairl Wedrrnsday he will formally rnsig11 on 1,.l'IJ. 28. Livingston. H-1.a.. said he 11wt with Louisiana Cov. Mik11 Foster over the W<!nkend, and lliny agrcnd on the datn so that spi,cial Plnetions lo fill llw seat could take place in tlw spring. "After having consulted with Inga! counsel and tbe governor of l.ouisiana. it has become apparent that in 11rd1ir for a sµncial midterm etectiun to be lwld this spring, I have no choice but to va«·atc my oflice by no latnr than Feb. 28, I IJ'J1J." lw said in a statnmcnt. lie formally iumounr.nd his resignation date in a letter lo Louisiana Sncrnlary of State Fox McKeithen. Livingston. who has rnpresentcd his state's l sl District centering in Mclairie since 1977.slunnPd his colleagues when he 1u11wu11c:ed during tlw debate on impeaching l'rnsident Clint.on on Dec. 19 that he would not snck tlrn Ilouse speakership and would slep down from his scat. 
Denmark votes on brothels 
J\MSTEHDAM, Netherlands 

Iloping to encl the use or underage girls and rlm;pnratn immigrant women as prostitutes, Dutch lawmakors began dnbating a plan Wcdrmsday lo overturn a 1912 ban on broth­Ids. J\lthough prostitution itself' is Inga! in the tolPrant N<1thcrlands, operating bordellos rmnains against the law. Still. limy have long bonn allowed lo operate in certain restricted dislrids as long as they l'ollowPd strict hygienic standards and firn sal'nty rngula­tio11s. The l11gislaLion now bnforn parliament's lownr house would rnversP the ban. Support1,rs say that by IPgalizing and tightly rng11lati11g brotlwls, it will bn easier to crack down on tlw Pxploilalion of teen-age girls. 
l(fmffdi&INi, 
Dow 
AMEX: 
707.19
JONES 
,U.8.3 Nasdaq:

9,200.23 
2.407.14 

-124.35 

<.OMPANY 
-26.27 
NYSE: 
588.08 
-J..n 
S&P 500: 1,243.17 Composite

-'l. 14 
Volume: 888,9l3,801 
VOLUME LEADERS 
llfkfll 'Hz ( UANlif I GAIN l'UH'E 

f'tJMl'.:\t} f.(lMl'l!TI:~ 
MICOS<.WI' C:tiHJ 1 1)/ LI UlMl'lJTl.k 
l'Ul.\l t!NlON ( '01{ 
~Mf.R ONLJNI. 
r.xr.nJ!uNt !NI Oil 
AMA/.DN_t'llM !N\
,rnvw1. emu· IN 
IMIU;fNl . r ..i'll Ck 
Ll\l "t l ~Y.'il"l.M\ 
t:i'l  .l.~.I  -i.7500  47.50  
MW1 Pf.I.I.  ·l.b4 0  .,.KIZ5UNCH  16K.7S Kll.10  
nu  .•_;4  ·4.R12.\  52.Lf)  
,\(II.  . 6.17  +10.~000  Jul.SO  
Xr<•N ,\:'\UN  +-40,00 t9. IS  +l.0{100 + 10.5262  .LIO JZS,62  
~{(V  -2.27  ..,u~o  IMQ  
IIEC csco  -16.61 ,.l.H  -.68.1() •,Lbti.~IJ  :I.H l!U."4-t  


COMP/I.ED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
¦ COLUMBIA 



Hungry survivors loot after earthquake 

ASSOCIATED PRESS 

ARMENIA 
Driven by hunger, survivors of a deadly earthquake clashed with police and stripped supermarket shelves clean Wednesday as short­ages of food and antibiotics worsened the misery wrought by one of Colombia's worst disasters. 
The toll from Monday's magnitude­6 earthquake in western Colombia reached 878 dead and more than 3,410 injured Wednesday, Red Cross spokeswoman Maria Perrelet said. That number was expected to rise as more debris was cleared... 
Hundreds of residents broke into stores in Armenia, the city hardest hit, and carried away liquor, furni­ture, appliances and food. Some threw rocks at police in riot gear try­ing to stop the mayhem. At least six civilians, including a local TV reporter, were injured by stones. 
As the chaos grew, President Andres Pastrana headed to Armenia to direct the relief effort himself. And authorities dispatched scores of addi­tional military police to try to restore order to the streets. 
Hescue teams arrived from Britain and the United States to help find sur­vivors and pull bodies from hundreds ol' downed buildings in this city of 300,000 people. Using heavy machin­ery, rescuers uncovered corpses throughout Armenia, but hope of finding new survivors was dwindling fast. 
With need overwhelming available supplies, Armenia's residents took matters into their own hands, break­ing down the gates of a downtown supermarket and stealing rice, cook­ing oil, flour and rum. 
Debris fell from the upper reaches of the damaged four-story building housing the store, sending panicked looters fleeing into the street in fear the building would collapse. 
In all, 27 aftershocks have struck Colombia since Monday, and a 5.4­magnitude quake rocked the north­east Wednesday but caused no dam­age. 
Luis Valderrama, 30, and two friends pushed a rod supermarket cart loaded with goods toward their home in the El Pradito Bajo neighbor­hood. 
"It isn't stealing. The store's totally destroyed, and nobody has a house, nobody has food. All this is to share with the people," he said. 
Armenia police Chief Col. Dagoberta Garcia watched helplessly. "We don't have the capacity to stop it," he said. 
Other police expressed sympathy for the looters. "You can't l'ight against hunger,"said police Lt. Jorge Duque. 
Throughout Armenia, people formed block-long lines at relief sta­tions for food and clothes. Others jammed the city's main access roads in an attempt to leave. 
"There's nothing lo eat. There's no milk. There's nothing," said Edgar Angulo, 38. who stood despondent next to a rapidly emptying supply jeep. 
Victims approached any stranger asking for help. 
Senate blocks dlsmiSSill for impeachment case 
AssoCIATED PRESS 

. WASHINGTON 
The Republica11-controlled Senatf! blocked dismissal of the impeach­ment case against President Clin.ton on Wednesday and then voted for new testimony from Monica Ll.lwinsky and .~wo. other witness.es -hut by ma.rgh1s well .shortofthn two-thirds that would he needed to oust the president.. · ' 
Inn pair of rvU cnlls lri Jhe tntshed Senato chamber, all 5~ Republicans voted against dismissal and fot the witnessos oppos1td by theiWbit~ House. They wore joined by .a single Democrat, RussrH Felngold9f Wisconsin, leaving them far belQ}'V the 67 needed for.conviction.. 
"The president wnr not'.bC: 'Whitt Hpu~~ltll~htihen.d<:lclde it 
removed from. office,.''. Senate Democratic leader Tom. Dtischle declarodm(nueilts,:1.ater hi cqifr; ments swiftly seconded•hy• the•White House, ., . ·. .. , , , .... _. ........• "For the good of the counu:-y and in keeping ~th tll~,Goti$'.titution,JtJs' 
now ti1p.e to f!ild thisJrial." 

.. Even.hefore, the vote.s, naschle
and Ma.Jority LeaderTrent Lott were 
atwork trying to fashion a biparti· 
san ·. agteem.eilt for the balance of 
the trial, iiiclu'ding videotaped depo­
sitions ofMs.l,ewinsky, presidentilil 
friend Vetnon..fordan nnd Whito 
Il(n1se aid.~ Si4~eyBlumentha.l. 

Hy lllte<afternoon, Lott told repp*tJ~rs· tlh~,;.tWQ. parties had ex,changod ,offers,and he said he wa~._hop~fulfflr_· agreem,ent by Tlrnrsdl;ly o;vii, timetable for a. final · vote on the ,ii-tieles nfimpeachment by mid7foMu<1.fYi He suggested the witness. depositions .."'."" .. possibly · vldeotaped·.7cpµ.ldtpke placeover ,th.e:vyee~9)JJ:l.;q:i, fyloDday, and foft ope11thwqu~stiop:ofwheth.er the 
W<1,At~~vi,iJJ:i,~S~~(9fJts own. •.. QJ1scl'tle,rt~orsaidl1fl.W&s hopeful -•• .!.:IX~,~~\';~~ei;i~withh\ Z~hours. 
Th.erecwas no,dtibate ion thQ Senate flootp~f9t~'1\'~dpeS9a.~•s·twovotes, ,bµt l)~µ.tf:il'~u.~(se.n;ato;s issued .writ• 
· ten.. ~t~tep.t~l'fts.»l't,erVll'~td.· 

... "t6:elieve.;'n:.fJ;~pre1Uahir~• fo. dfs­
miss this case at the present time," said Richard Shelby, an Alabama Republican who had previously expressed misgivings about witness­es. He said he believed the prosecu­tion ~should be allowed the opportu• nity todemonstrnte whether there is new and significant information that would justify live testimony." 
Apart from Feingold, Democrats were unanimous that whatovt,r Clinton's wrongs, thoy weren't impeachable offensos. ''However reprehensible that conduct was, I do not believe it is constitutional grounds for removing from office a president elected by the people,"said North Dakota's Byron Dorgan. 
White House lawyers have warned repeatedly that calling any witness­es would mean protracted delays to allow for time for a review of docu­ments thus l'ar withhold l'rom the president's team. But in a prepared statement he road to reporters in a Senate corridor, Special Counsel Gregory Craig omttted any mention of.. a drawn out process consuming 
page6 Thursday, January 28, 1999 

Today 
The Observer looks at
WHAT the reoccurring 
stereotypes ofwomen






n 
cus 
ACTION 
portrayed in television, 
PORTRAYS advertising andfilm. 

A bi-weekly feature from The Observer News Department 
Advertising failing to persuade public of social evolution 
As the year 2009 approaches, wolUeh have begun expetiencm.g a.morcxeccf role in the film! · · earn 
of powor that c . . .. . . ... 
"More women ors and scree ers are coming to the forefront. and being recognize<l," . said Jo~t1Y Szczepaniak-Gillece a·. Notre Dame stu.d,~ filmmaker. 
Sherry Lansing,·5+, Jebuilt. Para.·· Pictures tnto ·.~· (?d'.1> No, Since her arriyal ·•·......... ari{ag<\. films have wonthree O~cai .. ••.·•··· . t 
Picture. She topped Paramount's rria.t'ket share for 1998 by 20 percent with record­breaking profits. 
"Women's sociaJ and professionalgaint are being accornpatHed by an ad.ve · trend that undennines women'sre. and even sareW,,i~>si.iid Mary Pe~(to~J:<it'.
Women's Wiro. · -· · --' · · Movies from the l9~0s to 1940s referred to women as housewives and servants, At that time, a woman's role in society was not depicted as much more that taking care of 
the children, cltia;J}Jng house and c · for their husbands';• They Wt1re. not· ·· educated or intell\tq~i:: '. . 
"Take a look at"}t.Qur,itypica.l movie, women are stl}l seen as justqbjectstsaid Szczepa.niak~Gillece. ''Women · · ·· as sex objects beca:use film is so vis 
As a result of the 1970s women received serious .att~nt.fon.. Researc stereotypes: wo dents on men, 
Not only hav .. ties have been singled out 
:-:;,~~f/#.\?'. 

said Linda Berdayes, assis­tant professor of communica­tion, dance and theatre at Saint Mary's College. 
These various stereotypes range from career women to housewives. Much of the media is directly and unabashedly aimed toward women. 
"Research and analysis are targeted at specific women," said Berdayes. 
Yet this practice must work or otherwise companies would not spend the time or money interviewing and tracking consumAr results. 
"There isn't just one stereo­type the advertisers pick any­more, each one has a differ­ent characteristic, and we fit it," said Berdayes. 
''I've seen those Kellogg commercials with meri' criti­cizing their bodies. I know about Lifetime cable televi­sion. I wonder if only having a few isolated examples of a woman's perspective is sup­posed to make up for tho lack thereof everywhere else in life," said Alexander. 
Hadner said, "Advertisers arc savvy and have been aware for a long time that women do work. They know what they what women want and need. Thev know women will pay for it.,: 
Perhaps buying into lhe stereotype, and perhaps per­petuating it, is the assump­tion that all women want to be traditionally feminine 

somewhere in their life. 

"Television is a market of time and money. They're smart," Radner said. 
Savvy advertisers are aware that their markets are dominated by female consumers 

By MEGHAN DONAHUE 
News Writer 
In an era where women have become supposed equals in society, much has yet to change. 
More and more women have left the realm where house­work is their only full-time job, moving into a world where they split their time between the home and the workplace. Media stereotypes assume they still remain primarily at home, and these stereotypes adhere because society continues to buy into media commercial­ism. 
"Step back and ask who's creating these images," said Susan Alexander, assistant professor of sociology at Saint Mary's College. "The truth is women are molded to keep clean homes. Otherwise they risk their respect and integrity in the eyes of the community." 
Despite the changing propor­tions of women in the work­place, Hilary Radner, associate professor of film, television and theater at Notre Dame reminds that, most of the con­sumer population is female, so ads targeted towards women continue to be effective. 
Radner also said that women are vulnerable because females identify with the ideals 
ByJESSICA DELGADO 
Ne,,,.-s Writer 
of perfection. 
Alexander agreed, saying the advertisers understand and exploit this perception of an ideal woman. Consequently, the tall, blonde woman sells clothes, food and beauty prod­ucts. 
Even though some advertis­ers attempt to break the gen­der gap and remind viewers 
'THERE ISN'T JUST ONE STEREOTYPE THE 

ADVERTISERS PICK ANY· 
MORE, EACH ONE HAS A 
DIFFERENT CHARACTERIS­
TIC, AND WE FIT IT.' 
LINDA BERDA YES 
SMC PROFESSOR 
OF COMMUNICA710N 
about how silly ideals can be, society continues to support the industry. 
"I can see the deconstruction of my self-image when I wit­ness this," Alexander said. 
Regardless of whether com­mercials use their reverse psy­chology or not, companies still make a profit. 
"I can't answer to whether they are correct in presenting these different stereotypes," 
The Observe/Jeff Hsu Magazines are one of the most prevalent examples of gender-stereo­typical advertising. Many women rely on the advice available in various publications regarding love, heath, beauty and career. 
portrayed as beautiful, sexually available, exotic, and loyal but submissive. 
From the University Record, author Anita Chik interviewed Yili Wu. a Yale Chinese history do.ctoral student who explainod the possible, reasqn for such storeotypes. 
. . "lfyou examine the bistoryof China, you'H find that many Asian worrwn try to fulfill the desire of Chinese men. Chinese women, for example, used to be passive,' Wu said. 
Said Peacock, "The only improvement 
was more black women in 'white' fashion ·. mv,gazi.ne~,th9ugh they wore. a. dispropor­.ti/1\'it+te numbe.r of animal prints'." · 
As the acceptance of homosexuality con­tinues to grow, so does the visibility of les­bians in film. Suzanna Walters of Georgetown University spoke of the issue of lesbians in a p;-e-gay cinema. 
"There are rnore Incidental lesbjan char­
iit::t~rs in mories today. like the lesbian daughter in .'first Wives Club' or 'Chasing Amy.' Walter continued, citing a report from Indio Wire by Dimitra Kessenides. ..Both works point up the cunent 'cin.ematic hipness' of lesbianism and both continue t.o contribute to a narrowing of lesbian culture and poUtics."
\Vitb the ~.~'13/ miUennium coming, th€ l.lghtat the. ~PP of tunnel may be. brighter for women e~tei-jng the film Industry: Evon 
.•.. . ... though they have come this far there are :. . ./ . still needed advances ahead for women to inthe film i11d-O$try, ()IJ.'te trylng.tQ into an old ppfs club," said Szczepaniak­
.th~ (1.JJdience:ll<,lly'<Vood is <itlje ,peopl~; :~?Yies that · 
·..>said Jeff Spopp.lioyver. a · 


Thursday, January 28, 1999 page 7
The Observer • IN FOCUS 




Cartoons, children's books dravv from stereotypes 
By USA MAXgAlJER In l'ocu, Fdiror 
Oncti 111wn a timP, IH'oplc s1w11t liUle PIH'rgy l'rt\lting about what children read or watdwd on lPlnvision, but today, rhoosing quality materials for adoh•s1'.P11ts is hardly rhild's play. 
In n•c:r.nt y11,irs, parnnts and r.duca­tors havn lwgun qtwstioning wlwtlrnr snnmingly harmlnss childrnn's mndia may potPntially lwar harmful idnas to kids. 
"Tnlnvision does have a pow1irl'ul inllunncn on socinty land may send I s11blimi11al nrnssagns about gendnr and matnrial goods." said Saint Marv's edu­cation prol'r.ssor Loretta Li. ­
Li's colleague. education professor Minnrva Stranmn. agr1md that children c,11111ut avoid picking up on thr. stnrr.o­typr.s that rncur in childrPn's literaturP and wl,wision pro­
Straman agreed, "(Negative] consc­qunncos depend on how often (a gon­dnr rolr.1 is portraynd and how oftnn it is stigmatiwd." 
Said Wcicrs. "I don't think all kids will Im inl'ltwnced. Only thosP who don't havP positive rnle models in their lifo may bll nngatively affected." 
Weiors is unsure whether such family patterns and gender biases present in Disney films ultimately reach young audience, but she is confident that chil­dren take cartoons very seriously. 
"Adults can mason that cartoons characters are fictitious, lbutl chil­drnu's reality is what they arc watch­ing," she said. 
Knowing these cognitive diffornnces, Li said slrn finds it frightening how many hours children watch television. She said parents should pay attention to children's program­ming, since many kids "would rather sit down 
gramming.  'THE LITERATURE WE  and watch television  
l.ownr nlementary  SHARE WITH CHIL­ instead of going out­ 
studnnts arc v1•ry con­scious ol' tlrn gnndnr rolns artintlalt\d in  DREN SHOULD BE QUALITY ... IT SHOULD NOT  side to play." Li cited chain-smok­iug, leather-clad Jon  
"grown up" cartoon  RESTRICTTHEM.'  Camel  as evidence of'  
rhar.11:lc•rs "lrncausn  tho power of' cartoon  
tlwy look to adults as 111 o dP Is ."n x p Ia i rm d  TERRI KOSIK  characters. Because Congross fnarcd that  
Strnman.  E'<HCl/11VE IJ!RECTOR  the character enticed  
This co11scious1rnss  EAi/LY Cl11w11001J  young  people  to  
inlPnsilios throughout  DEVlil.OP!vlliNT CENTER  smoko, federal legisla­ 

uppN p(11111Pntary and junior high as ado(Ps­t:Pnts try to find tlwir own idPntity, a<'.l'Ording to Slraman. 
/\l'lPI' l'l'SParching the lack of parental figun1s in l'naturc-lnngth Disney car­toons. Saint Mary's communicalion major Janie!' Wni11rs said she believes d1ildrm1's m1llirlai11nrnnt nrndia say a lot nwn• Hrnn most viewers rPaliz11. 
Out of llw 20 cartoons she studied, I!i fatlrnr 11gurns w1•.n1 present, whilo only five 1'.asos ol' mothers appnarnd. Slw discovcn1d that many films f'oa­tun1d singln-parnnt compositions, often fath1•r-d1111glrt.nr rnlationships wlwre tlw l'allwr portrayPd as a king or ruler. likP in the movin "Tlw Little Mnrmaid." 
"IOl'tnn I young girls lived with their l'atlwrs, hut by the end of the movie tlwy had rnovnd on lo anotlrnr man, usually IL ii>VI' internst," said Wniers, who pcrl'ormocl the rnsearch for lwr Sflnior compr<•honsivo project. "Tlrny wnrn nnvnr shown libnrated and inde­p1md11nt." 
Weiers said fomale characters liko tlw mother in "Aladdin" arc occasion­ally 11limi11utnd l'rom final scripts lwcaus11 they serve no function. 
Weiors thinks habitual snxual biases portraynd in cartoons can affect ehil­dri•n's unckrstanding of gendnr identi­ty. 
tion passed calling for, 
among other things, 
the retirement of Joe C:anrnl. 
Struman and Li are encouraging thoir students as future oducators to teach with a grnatcr awareness regarding some issues raised in cartoons and sto­rybooks. 
Saint Mary's sr.nior .Jennifer Mazurek said she learned that "education changns evnry year." Tim ways Mazurok and her fellow elementary l)ducation majors arc being instructed to tnach have evolved drastically dur­ing thn past generation. 
As a result. the Saint Mary's educa­tion dopartmr.nt adapted the perfor­m ancc criteria of the Indiana Professional Standards Board. This r:onf'irms that teachers will strive to "communicatn in ways that dcmon­straln sensitivity to cultural aud gender dif'l'i-rences." 
Mazurek recalled the books she read when she was young such as The Babysitters Club and Sweet Valley lligh, admitting that educators today frown on this type of literature because it lacks quality content. 
Still, books like "llatchet'u and "Maniac Magee" were popular when shr. grow up. and continue to be taught in schools. Both those books feature male heroes. 

"Stories containing male heroes arc still taught more often, not on purposn. but because they are established as classics in elementary literature," Mazurek said.Mazurek said she is encouraged that "more books today deal with female heroes." 
Terri Kosik. executive director of' the Early Childhood Development Center (ECDC) at Saint Mary's, stresses the importance of positive literature. 
"The literature we share with chil­dren should be quality. "said Kosik. "It should not restrict them." 
Kosik thinks quality children's litera­ture should "empower girls, similar to how books empower boys." 
"[It isl not helpful to have them focus on [gender] roles [orl feature girls who arc helpless, not innovators and not free thinkers," Kosik said. 
Kosik organizes the Saint Mary's Story Book Festival, through which she 
rmninds tho public that a genre of chil­dren's literature exists outsidn of fic­tion and fantasy. 
The nonfiction genre known as bib­lio-1.herapy is "very lrnlpful in aiding children work through their emotions." Kosik said. Stories qualified within this category could oxplore issues of divorce. death or the responsibililif\S of owning a pet. 
Kosik confirmed that only books bearing positivo mossagcs can bn found al the ECDC or the Story Book Festival. "All quality books, only the classics, no Disney, no commercialized storins," she said. 
Even though escaping the bombard­ment of stereotypes in children's media may seem impossible, the next. genera­tion of enlightened educators are striv­ing not to enforce them. 
"Educators are just keeping their options open," said Mazurek. 




WHAT FEMALE CARTOON CHARACTER WAS MOST MEMORABLE FROM YOUR CHILDHOOD? 


"Smurfette because she was always around guys, but that didn't matter. I liked her because she was the sane one, she was always working things out and giving stuff to people with a motherly touch." Drusille Mowl Freshman, Holy Cross 


"Strawberry Shortcake and My Little Pony were both so integral in my childhood that I can't distin­guish between the two. Their opinions on morality have mold­ed me into the man I am today." Jed Donahue Senior, Off Campus 
"She-Ra because she was pretty and strong. I liked He-Man and she was the female form of him." Mariecruz Segura Sophomore, Le Mans 

"Wonder Woman because she had those gold bracelets that could deflect bullets. My brother used to pretend he was her." Bernie Hessley Senior, Oft Campus 
"I remember when Bugs Bunny dressed up as a woman." Mike McConnell Sophomore, Off Campus 

"Sally, from the Peanuts, because Charlie Brown always took care of her like a big brother. She was just a cute kid." Carah Smith Senior, Off Campus 


lhe Ubserver • CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, January 28, l 999 

ND's 'inclusion' not odd Krupa 
continued from page I 


at Catholic universities 
Krupa joined Tho Observer 
By MICHELLE KRUPA 
News E<lirnr 
With the Aug. 27 publication of the "Spirit of Inclusion" let­ter, University officials took a step toward officially recogniz­ing "the uniqueness of all per­sons" in the Notre Dame com­munity, including gays and Jes­biaus. 
But this recm1t step at Notre Dame is one that other Catholic universities took long ago, and many have gone so far as to protect the rights of homosexu­al students in their non-dis­crimination policies, which Notre Dame has chosen not to do. 
Some also recognize gay and lesbian student groups, provid­ing them all rights granted to otlrnr student groups, a right the University has denied to GLND/SMC. 
Georgetown University in Washington, O.C:., has a non­discrimination policy including a clause that specifically pro­tects the rights of students with regard to sexual orientation. 
Gay and lesbian groups are also recognized as sanctioned groups and can hold meetings and events on campus, accord­ing to Matthew Umhofor, assis­tant director of public relations at Georgetown. 
"We feel that it's consistent with our heritage as a Catholic university," Urnhofer said. "The university demonstrates concern for the dignity and respect of all people -stu­dents. facultv and staff. That, of course, includes the gay and lesbian members of' our com­munity." 
Catholic University, also in O.C., does not offer specific legal protection of the rights of students of' homosexual orien­tation. The school has not added such a clause because those rights are already pro­tected by civil law, according to Father Robert Friday, vice president of Student Life. 
"Our (non-discrimination] 
position in March 1998 as part of a team with Matt Loughran, who graduated in May and held the position while Krupa studied in Chile. 
In addition to her on-campus experience in journalism, Krupa wrote for the Aurora Beacon-News and her home­town newspaper, the Daily Herald. She was also published in the Chicago Tribune, 

"Michelle will do such an outstanding job," said Heather Cocks, the outgoing editor-in­chief. 'Tve worked with her since she started here, and I am thrilled to pass along the position to someone as dedicat­ed and talented as she is." 
Krupa will assume the posi­tion after spring break. 
policy as it is stated doesn't specifically protect those rights, but we're in the District of Columbia, so the civil law does bind us on the issue," staff in August of her freshman year as an assistant news edi­tor. Her sophomore year she served as associate news editor until she won the news editor 

Friday said. "As for the word­ing of our policy, no one has ever challenged us on that." 

Celebrate President's Day
Notre Dame students' rights 
www.ndfcu.org (219) 239-6611 (800) 522-6611 
~ ~ 
Independent of the University 
are not protected under such a legislation since the St. Joseph County Code makes no mention of specific protection with regard to sexual orientation. 
Catholic University also has had a recognized gay and les­bian student group since 1988. Friday noted that the group "is educational, not recreational," and therefore does not conflict with the institution's basic Catholic foundation. 
"The group's focus is to say that it is not right to discrimi­nate against persons on the basis of sexual orientation or race or reli.gion or for any rea­son," he said. "It is to enlightlln others, to educate on the rights of human persons." 
Missouri's St. Louis University also has a recog­nized. chartered Rainbow Coalition organization that has "been in effect for several years," according to Jeff Konkel of SLU's news bureau. 
The university's handbook policy protects· the rights of' students of any group to meet peacefully and to accept mem­bers regardless of race, sex, color, religion or sexual orien­tation. 
According to Konkel, the Catholic character of the uni­

P~ NOTRE DAME
versity demands the accep­

~·FEDERAL CREDIT UNION
tance of all people. 

For People. Not For Profit. 
"There are always voices of dissent in issue like this," he 

"Mt.;;l be a full time employee and direct deposit your net pay.
said, "But I think there's a lot of support for the rights of 


those groups to meet." 
Research by Brad Prendergast contributed to this report. 
This article was originally printed in The Observer on Friday, September 12, 1997. 
Expand your mind: Read The Observer 


CIVIL/ROAD ENGINEER 
Seeking Civil Engineer for Highway Design Department. Experience in INDOT Highway Design procedures desired. Minimum two years experience; P.E. preferred. Salary commensurate with expe;ience. Good benefits. 
Contact Butler, Fairman and Seufert, Inc. 
9405 Deiegates Row lndionopolis, IN 4640 
317.573.4615 


l 'hursday, January 28, 1999 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 9 

¦ WASHINGTON 



NEH chair speaks to leaders, students in D.C. 
By BRIDGET O'CONNOR links between the Nl:;;H and the Washington Corrcspondmt nation's classrooms would. operate yi~ the Internet or other computer. 
tech• 
Br,fore a crowd of media personali­nology. ties. political and business leaders and "My dream is to bring the humanities the studonts on t.he Semester in within an arm's reach to .every Washington, D.C., program, William American -no more than a .1not1se Ferris, r.hairman of the National dick or a library away," he said; Endowment. for the Humanities (NEH}, Mo also felt that the development of spokn on thn rolo of tlrn NEIi in the regional centers for the humanities coming century in a luncheon Tuesday was essential to this mission. at tho N!Llional Prnss Club ln "Wt1 must make 'King Lear' and Washington, D.C. 'Huck Finn' relevant to youngsters in 
"The humanities are absolutely Peoria and Souih Central." he (\ontin­11ss11ntial to the United States in the uod. next century," Im said. "As we rush Ferris explained his belief that tlw holl-noll into tho new millennium, tl11) region from 'thich a person comes humanitiiis will guide us." largely defines their perspective. 
Following up on President Clinton's Ferris's Mississippi heritage is evident suggestion in his 1999 State. of the from both his itccent and his interests Union address, Ferris discussed what in the blues and southern culture. He nemfod to he donf.i in the area of edu· wrote the Encyclopedia of .Southern. cation. Culture during his professorship at Ole 
"Tho chief battle of the 21st century Miss. · will be educatiCJnal and culturnl, not At one point in the talk, Forri$ broke p11litkal or military," ho said. out his guitar and treated the audience 
He compared education i.n the next to ci rendition of "B¢e Bopp a J,opla." century to tlw Cold War in the present "Within the music, We really can see on!l. Its immense imporlanc1~ as an a microcosm of social changes." he issuo was domonstrated by tho last explained afterward, .. · · ·. · election in which mlucation was cited He tou<~hnd on the importancfl of as the No..I concNn. rock and roll as serving to bridge the 
Ferris pointed to soveral already­gaps between the white tradition of c•xistin~ NEII programs which demon­country music and the blatk tradition strate the rehttionship between the of bluos. lfo also commented on the ondowmont and education. These importance of the developmentln included re-education programs such racial and cultural relations in the as summer seminars and institutes for United States during tho twentieth ce.n-··. toaclrnrs nod classroom rosources in tury. . · . the hum1mities. "[The United States) coustalllly wel­
"While we cannot find wisdom in a comes and celebrates diversity. Ii's not computer chip, that chip can holp lead always been easy, hut sh(!w me a 
THE 
Elizondo: U.S. Catholics differ from Latin Americans 
u.s 10 s,~Jf..knowledgn," said Ferris. nation that bas donEl itbetter," he 
saiq. Many of his suggestions for further 

By LINDSAY FRANK  from traditions found in two major  
News Writer  geographic regions. A combination of  
Islam, Judaism, Christianity and Gypsy  
Catholicism in Latin America differs  culture in thn Iberian Peninsula great­ 
greatly from that found in the U.S.,  ly influenced the imagc-oriontnd  
according to Father Virgilio Elizondo,  aspect of religious lifo in Latin  
winner of this year's Laetare Medal.  America.  
Discussing unity and diversity within  "Our Catholicism is very rich in  
the Catholic Church at Wednesday  imagery, public rituals and dnvolion to  
night's Kellogg Lecture, Elizondo has  Mary," said Elizondo.  
served as an integral part in the effort  "There is a huge importance placnd  
to build a center for Latin American  on sacrod space and sacred momnnts.  
studies at Notre Dame. A theologian  Wn love to take religion into th1i  
with in lerests in liberation theology  streets," ho said.  
and popular religion, Elizondo stressed  After the lecture, Elii'.ondo l'icldod  
the unique aspects of Latin American  questions from the audienc11. When  
Catholicism.  asked about tlw role of' tlrn Church in  
"Latin America religion and culture  the U.S.-Mexican border arna.  
are deeply integrated," said Elizondo,  Elizondo spoke of his own cxpnrience  
adding that because of this, religious  in dealing with immigrants.  
conversion is a very difficult and rare  lie spoke of one woman who was  
occurrence in Latin America.  crossing the border by train with her  
"In lhe U.S. converting to a different  baby. To avoid !ming caught by INS  
religion is easy because it involves  officials without legal documentation.  
changing churches within a culture.  she jumped off the moving train with  
However, conversion in Latin America  her child.  
is painful and in essence involves Urn  Although the baby remairrnd  
death of a culture," he said.  unharmed, the woman lost both of her  
Born after both the Council of' Trent  legs when they became tangled undN­ 
and the Hcformation, Catholicism in  neath ihe train. Elizondo played a role  
the U.S. was for a time long the reli­ in fitting this woman with artificial  
gion of immigrants and laborers. In  legs.  
contrast, the Church in Latin America  But despite his efforts in lrnlping  
has always been parallel in power to  many immigrants to boconw legalized  
that of the government, according to  citizens, ho said ho believes the Church  
Elizondo. Because of these differences,  can do more.  
Catholicism seems more rigid in the  Elizondo also stated that he fully  
U.S. than in Latin America.  supported the idea of ordaining mar­ 
"Catholicism in the U.S. is based on  ried men in order to solve the shortage  
efficiency and organization and the  of priests.  
sense of being registered as a member  "I've known many married men that  
of a parish. In Latin America, Cai.holies  would be perfect religious leaders  
are more concerned with devotion;  within their communities." said  
there is hardly a sense of parochial  Elizondo.  
obligation, the concept of Sunday  lie also said that the priesthood has  
envelopes means nothing there," said  not welcomed the poor and indigenous  
Elizondo.  people and that both of these solutions  
Catholicism in Latin America stems  should be considered.  




is currently accepting applications for 



Managing Editor 
for the 1999-2000 year. 
Applicants should have strong editorial and journalistic skills and be comfort­able in a management position. A basic understanding of newspaper produc­tion and experience with the Macintosh system is helpful, but not required. Any Notre Dame or Saint Mary's student is encouraged to apply. 
Please submit a resume andfive-page statement ofintent to Michelle Krupa at The Observer office in 024 South Dining Hall by 5 p. m. Monday, Feb. 1. 
To indicate an intent to apply, please contact Michelle at 1-5323.For more information about the Managing Editor position, contact Editor-in-ChiefHeather Cocks at 1-4542, or Managing Editor Brian Reinthaler and Assistant Managing Editor Heather MacKenzie at 1-4541. 
page 10 
The Observer• INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, January 28, 1999 
¦ JORDAN 


Jordanians pay respects to new crown prince 



Associated Pres, 
AMMAN 

Hundreds of Jordanians crowded into a hilltop palace to pay respect to their new crown prince Wednesday as anxiety grew over the health of King Hussein, who has suffered a relapse of cancer. 
The demonstration of support for Prince Abdullah -which included the king's brother, who was removed as crown prince Tuesday underlined Jordanians' hopes that any tran­sition of power will be smooth in the kingdom, a nation poor in resources and at the crossroads of a turbulent region. 
The United States quickly sig­naled its support for the king's decision to appoint the 36-year­old heir to the throne. Secretary of State Madeleine Albright decided to stop in Jordan on Thursday to meet the new crown prince. 

"We will stand by Jordan and hope this transition is one that does not create problems," she said in Cairo, Egypt. 
Hussein had abruptly returned to tlw United States on Tuesday for nu~dical treatment. 
The Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn., announced Wednesday the king was in "stable condi­tion" but had suffered a relapse of lymphatic cancer after under­going six months of chemothera­py. 
"He is receiving treatment for a relapsr, of non-Hodgkins lyrn­phoma. I!is Majesty immediately began treatment upon arriving at Mayo clinic," said a statement issued on behalf of the king's doctors. 
Sources in Jordan, speaking on customary condition of anonymity, said Hussein might undergo a second stem cell transplant to try to fight the dis­
ease. 

Now You Can Pick from Five Colors! 
Combining state-of-the-art features _ with simple setup and operation, iMac™ is an 
~.. •. '.\... ·. incredible value. It boasts the advanced,Jler-
L\7 .· formance of the lightning-fast PowerPC G3 .·. . processor, high speed ethernet network­
··"11\-•• 

· · <,--, _ ing, a 56K modem, and pre-loaded soft­!' ware that combine to get you to 
•. ,.,the Internet in 10 minutes right ~ .· out of the box. ·. · ' t~ And Now, The new iMac has.a 
~-.__ lower price, a 6GB hard drive, a faster processor and five new colors-blueberry, strawberry, tangerine, grape and lime. 
Your special student price: $1,135 
( Add an Imation SuperOisk drive for $150 = $1,285 total) 
Call now for Apple's special ND Student offers! 
OlTSolutionsCenter 
Rni 112 Computing/Math Bld~J 

H1i11k c1iffere11t. 
Phone: 219-631-7477 (1 for sales) 

wvvw.apple.com educat ion store 
© 7998 Apple Computer, Inc. All rights reserved. Apple and the Apple logo are registered trademarks al1d iMac is a trademark ofApple Computer, Inc. PowerPC is a trademark ofIBM Corp. Purchase from a participating Apple-authorizedcampus reseller or from the Apple Store for Education. 


ATTENTION HUGS MEMBERS 
Sign up for Spring Volunteer Hours 
THURSDAY, JAN 28 

7:30 @ c.s.c. 
BRAII IAGLI FA'4IL"Y. BIL:LIARDI 
Are You Interested in 
World Health? 
If so, then Come and See a Presentation by the 
Thomas Dooley Award Recipient 

Dr. David Gaus 
"Health Care Delivery in Ecuador: Experiences ofa Notre Dame Graduate" 


t;l.1i) 
CENTER  FOR  
Time: 11am  SOCIAL CONCERNS  
Date: Sat. January 30, 1999  

Place: Center for Social Concerns 
This Lecture is Sponsored by the World Health Council and the Center for Social Concerns 

Notrn Dame's campus  own history in South Bend  
Tim  bnsides Saint Mary's running trails and the Barnes and  through direct involvement in community organiza­tions. Just as residents  
Vieira  Nohle bookstore on Grape Hoad with the fabu­ at Logan Center and thn Center for the IIomeless welcome  
lous Starbucks  the support and love  
colli.w. The goal  from volunteer Notre  
of the NHP is to  Dame students, it is  
first ypm• studmJts. an opporilmi!y that  exposn studmils  these same stu·dents  
may makn your Limn in South Beml  lo the South  who may benefit  
mon• n•warding, As u senior last year. I  Bend community  more through their  
worked as a studc>nl assistant at tlrn  so that they may  decision to interact in a  
Cc111ter for Sncial Conc1~rns moderating  tlmn independently  new community.  
tlw various social service clubs and help­ venture past  So while The Windy City  
ing coordinat(• lirst yuar programs,  Domerland and incorpo­ is only a hundred miles away,  
namely tlw Neighborhood Hoots  rate Brmderland into their  downtown South B,md is only a  
Program (NHI'). No, this program  Notre Dame expnrinnce.  few miles away. Of course South Bend  
docsn 't consist of trnkking through  One st.op during the t()ur is to the  is not Chicago. But, not to impersonate  
South lknd 1wighborhoods searching for  downtown area around the St. Joe Hiver.  JFK. it may be more rewarding to find  
f'orgoltfm, dying trees and uprooting  It's a great place to relax on a warm,  out what you can offer the community,  
thmn; instead it exposes first year stu­ weekend afternoon. If I had had the  not just what the big city can. offer you.  
dents to the historical landmarks, area· chance to participate in a program such allrac­as lions and Neighborhood'THE GOAL OF THE NRP .volunteer Hool<;, I don't [NEIGHBORHOOD ROOTS PROGRAM] ISsnrvicc think I would  So do yourself a favor and contact the CSC to learn more about the Neighborhood Hoots Program. The spring semester NHP will be held on Saturday, February 27 from 10 a.m.  
program  TO EXPOSE STUDENTS TO THE SOUTH BEND  have been so  until 1 p.m. Lunch is included. Sign-ups  
silns that the South  COMMUNITY SO THAT THEY MAY THEN INDE- pathetic and would have  will be held at the dining halls and the Center for Social Concerns February  
Bm1d  PENDLY VENTURE PAST DOMERLAND AND  veered ofT the  10,11 and 12.  ·  
communi­ty olfors  INCORPORATE BENOERLAND INTO THEIR  usual route to C.J's or  Tim Vieira graduated in 1998. lie  
to nvery  NOTRE DAME ExPERIENCE.'  Blockbuster  works in Pennsyluania as a Mutual  
Dorner.  and headed  Funds Administrator for SE/ Trust.  
While• I  downtown to  For A More Just And 1/umane World is  
lmliflve tlw CSC's first NHP in the foll of  jog along the St. Joe River for a change.  a bi-weekly column sponsored by lhe  
1998 was successful, I would like to  One of the most rewarding parts of the  Center for Social Concerns which runs  
encourage you all lo do what I wish I  program is a visit to the Center for the  every other Thursday. The author's  
could havo donn wlmn I was a first year  110111(\less. A lour ol' the facility accompa­ views do not necessarily reflect the  
stud1ml.  nies a video prnsentation and sit-down  views ofthe Center for Social Concerns  
It's mnbnrrassing but true: college  discussion with center residents who  or The Observer. Hmail comments to:  
f'oothall is my favoritn sport but I rnwnr  rnllnct on how the Center has challenged  NIJ.ndcntrsc. l@nd.edu  
visitml the College Football I !all of Fame  them to seek a morn stable and lrnppier  







VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, January 28, 1999-------------------
page: l l 


¦ DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
IT!i PR08A.81-YHe.Al7HFut,/
71-tN~ !JlJT 'f}{tyCAN'T I /<NC(,(/. YOU 
fTS.4U

1HakJH, THeR&5 "f1-IIG
!IOI</(:4ftl 1RAINEP7!J MM. /1!;£.11$ CANSlE1He 
7HAT

Ma' G77Jl7V7H47SHC¥AIS
'!H&51iNA!?J/<5 Sff71-1Ral6H IJ/3/NG Qi!APPW . fD?£[()'l1 !N 
Pc/lJCJ/...­

5TANPAU /INYTHIN6, INOIURCHl 7HATCliR'/7llN ff.OPL.e. 7APPIN0. 7H/S? , ZIPP!3R.. 8URN OPF !JXG;SG t'AT THRaJGHPIPGeTING. 
""' 
¦ 0.UOTE OF THE DAY 
,Love is not the dying 
moan of a distant vio­
lin -it is the triumphant 
twang of a bedspring.' 
-S.J. Perelman 

THE OBSERVER 

Nonu 11,1~11' (hflt:I.; l'.O. BoxQ. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631•7471 Si\iN I MARt's o,,Hn.: .109 I bggar, Noue D,llllC. IN 4655(, (219) 284-5365 
I 998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
1'.1,i·roR-IN-ClltEI' 
Hcarl,cr c:.,cb 
MANAt.,N(i HnrroR 8\ISINf5S MANAtifR liri;m Rcmrlulcr Kvlc Carlin 

ASSISTANT MANACIN(; Ell!TOR l lc;1thcr M;u..:Kl'nnc 
NFWS l'llllUR ...... .... Mi,lidlc Krup• Al>Vl'RTISIN(; M~NM.l'R.. ... .... !Irv.in Luc1 VJE\'('N,1Nr P11non .. fal11.mlo I.lull Al> l>fst(;N MANACF.R .................... llrcn Huchtt SroR 1·~ Ern1·01-t ...... . ..... j.,'..ul1lt'~n Lopez Sv,,rMs MANAGl'R ................Mkh,el Brm,ill<t SnNF FlnroRs........ . .. ...S,1r.,h llyL,g CONTitOLl.l'R .............................Oav~ Rogcro 
K1isti Klitsch Wm Al>MINISTRATOR .......................A!lirnn Krills Sit.1Nr MA.uV1~ tmroR .....M . .Sh,urnon Ry,111 GRAPIIICS E111rn11 ...............................P«c Cildl.i PtHHO l'.lHIOI\ ........................Kevin I);1lum 
Ihe ( lhK·n-a o rh"· 1ade.:prwfc111 m-w,r1,1f)(.'f puh!i.\h,:d hy 1ht· Mu,J,·iw 1i,hL· Uni~·rr:.i,y of Nom· DJmc du Lac ,uHI ~.um M.1ry·.. f",dll-it·. h ..lob nut m·u:,\.ll'ily r1.:flt·1.1 1l11~ poli..ie:-ol dll' .1Jmiul,trn11un ufdthcr imu1mion. The new\ i.~ rq_M1U1.'t' .1~ "1..c.irm:I)' .1nJ ul11L·di\·dy .1, 11n....,,_ihll·. Un.\1~ru.·tl {:tli111t1,1h n.·prt'.\L'lll 1h, opinion of1ht: m,1jori1y of1hc hlmu •ma( .lucl, t>.Lm.1~111~ h.lum, A'>-,i:,,1,1111 r-..t1n.1~in~ bliwr .md llcpanmcnt ~lnnr~, Conlft1rmuiric,, lm.::Nt .ind 1.11h111\II\ prcwll! ,he \W\'>''I ui"t!u.: .i.u1hor\, .UI\I !)U( IWU:.'l,\,Uily 1h11:<.(,' nrThl' ( >h~c:ncr. Vi.:w11um1 iipii\.C b ,1v.iila.hlc (() .di mcmllCn uf the Nuu,· l J,inidS,.irH M,u/• ,01111nunity ,1ml 10 .1ll rc,1~lcr,. The: !'rl'.',. cxprt·~\ion of v;1ry1ng 011inions 1'1muj.!;h l~ncr, i,t:1lt:11ur.1~..:ll, 
Coma,ting The Obscrvcc hlnur•rn Cl11rf 6.ll-4542 lllo.,inc» l"lHkc 6.ll-531.\ M,111,1~1ni; b!11nr/:\»i'l.m1 ME (>.ll-4'i41 1\dvcrri,in~ (>,i 1-6900/88'!0 Nc-w,/('huro (lJI -532J Sy~t<'m\ .6.11-88.19 ~I'""' 6.H -4 54.l Fax 6.l i-G927 SLc11c-/S.-1u1 M,try\. (iJl-4)40 Vic:wpoint b~vbil Vic:wpoinr. l@nd.edu l l.~v hfiwr/Vicw~o11H 6,H-5:HU Ad E-M,1il <1[l.'Krvt"rftld,trwin.cc, nd.c<lu ('ffic.:c: \1,111,1~rr/\,,:nC'r.1! lnform.uion (dl-7~71 New:. E-M.1il obscrv\".r.obs11ews. lfti''11(!.i:Llu 

...AU.~ING~ CATlO~WUOwtTE

ruw-t. I 


¦ foR A MORE JUST ANO HUMANE WORLD 

Make Your Own History 
c;rnc1tings l'rom PhiladPlphia. I gradu­in downtown South Bend. Prnlty pathet­life. In a sense, that is whv the CSC offers atml frnm Noln· Dame last spring, and ic:, right'? Wnll. while the NHP does not this program. It is a way to learn about whi!li I hav11 m1joynd rnsettling back actually visit tlm national attraction, you the history of South Bend, passing such honw 011 llrn East Coast. I would like to learn of its presence. And that's Lhc places as the Studebaker Factory. Most olfor all umlnrgraduatns, particularly wholti puint of the program: importantly, it is a way to learn more 
learning what !ins beyond ---=,__-about how you can make your 
¦ LETTER TO THE EDITOR 


Henry Hyde ·Readmitted 
To be very blunt, Professor Billy's edi­torial ("Henry Hyde Dismissed") shocked me. It shocked me because I thought English professors were more than grammar police. I also thought it was universally known among all educated people -especially English professors -that a word's definition often changes as the context in which the word is used changes. "Dismiss" might also mean "to stop considering; rid one's mind of; dis­pel" (American Heritage College Dictionary). In the opinion of most "with a grasp of the English language" and any knowletlge of the impeachment pro­ceedings against President Clinton, Mr. Hyde's statement was not only used cor­rectly, it was, in fact, correct in assert­ing that a dismissal of the case WOULD be a casting aside of the charges against the president. His overly pedantic and unfounded editorial leads me to wonder whether the column was written in an tlttempt to show all renders his mastery (?) of the English language or to make Mr. Hyde appear ignorant. In any case, it backfired. Also, if the editorial was an attempt to embarrass a conservative Republican by picking apart his rhetoric, Professor Billy might want to balance the scale by taking a close look at some of the statements made by our President; his incredible ability to twist words into a giant pretzel of unimagin­able, yet legally untouchable. dishonesty and deceit have made a mockery of the language Professor Billy teaches. 
Nate Morin 
Freshman, Keenan Hall Jnnunry 27, 1999 



VIEWPOINT 
page 12 OB~ERVER ----------------Thursday, January 28, 1999 


¦ THE BEAT 
The Scarlet Letter ''P'' 
On November 11, 1996, journalist Stacey Harrison introduced her news article in The Daily Iowan by inviting her readers to extend their literary imaginations. She asked, "Have 
================ you 
Brittany Morehouse 

ever really wondered if tomorrow really ·was another day for Scarlett O'llara'' Or what Hester Prynne was like bcforn the 1-wents that tnm­spired in The Scarlet Letter'!" Good question. 
I wish to propose a similar question to my fel­low Dornen;, To all members ol'the student body, faculty'and administration, that is. to my family: have you ever wondered if tomorrow really changed in the eyes of an intimidated freshman the day after he/she heard that power-t'ul welcoming speech delivered by Patty O'Hara? Or wondered what a DuLac deli-of Christ-like forgiveness and acceptance needs to be implemented. It is sorely lacking from the policies as currently upheld. For those who have been at the 'mercy' of Du Lac judges, forgiveness is not be felt while standing. banished, outside the uack door of one's former dorm, nose pressed to the window. Tu arbitrarily and rather whimsically heap banishment from other dorms on top of this ignominy Dies even more in tlrn face of the basic teachings of Christ. Jesus repeatedly asserts the value of every lost lamb, teaching that we are lo go to great risk to get the lost one bar.kin the fold. Christ's teachings assert without question that each individual des­tiny is in fact a matter of great consequence. 
Du Lac also claims that "we strive to create a selling in which personal growth can take place, deep friendships can bo formed ... We believe, therefore, in values that foster the human respect needed for people to live. work. study and socialize together as a community." Whoa -have l misunderstood? Were my "deep friend­ships" not tied to my former residential hall? Am f supposed to surrender my right to receive . "human respect?" Doesn't my "personal growth" require being pushed in the right direction, not 
being pushed away? Am l no longer a part 
quent was like before he/she faced a -----of the "community," since I am now punitive destiny? More impo~-oIT-campus? _ . 
tantly, do such individual des­tinies matter -are they of / consequence? 
I wear a scarlet "P". I _ 
broke parietals and I 
am paymg the eonse• I • \ l
j

quences. It would be / ~ inappropriate for ~ 
me to complain ' 1 about the injustice • • ;-a. of having been ~.­kicked off campus. 
I fully assume responsibility for ~~~~~~ 
violating Dulac 
Words can ~ot descnbe_  
,  how empty 1t feels to walk  
_  _  on such a beautiful  
liiiii.;;::::~==~'-1- \ landscape ... my home ~ away from home ...\ and know that I am  
~  not welcoi:ne and  
J  -\ ~  n~t_µ~rm1tted to VIStt m thr~e.  
--~­.•--•&i~....,1'7"'.l  don~s-This ts not family. As Ro,?ert  
-.ia.,.-u  Frost wrote,  A  
Home is the  
place, where, when you go  

guidelines and 1 .-u.,,u, there, th~y .~ave to realize that I con-====::;;;:~ ~~~::::::~==~~ take you m. 
tracted to obey e,___ I get the feeling,. 
University policy when ----=--~~:?iiie:~~~~ ~nd I am not ~one '.n I decided to join the thJS,,that the Umvers1ty Notre Dame family. Thus, ~L--~~.#,!i~~:,---does1: t want ANYTHING 
even though lam legalfy an to do with off-campus stu­adult ... as long as I am a stu-dents. We are forced to dent here, I shall be questioned at search for_ c~~pus news; aln:ost great length, reprimanded and then --~--all campus ~ct1v1t1~s _are_ dorm-on­
punished if l do not uphold University rules and regulations. Je comprends. 
I will not dwell on the many personal details of my case which mitigate by culpability, such as how my lifelong, exhausting, discouraging strug­gles with a learning disorder (ADD) are the root of my tunnel-vision focus and my characteristic impulsivity during times of stressful, novel expe­riences. Both proved the primary causes of this parietal violation. Or, how my first violation . occurred quite innocently freshman year durmg my first-ever academic vacation, when parietal hours were changed. Such particulars rightfully deserve a separate discussion on the role of "exceptions" when deciding the fates of Dulac sinners. 
Today, two other issues concern me: first, what it means to be exiled from dorms and sec­ond. what it means to live off campus at this University (whether l'orcHd or by choiceL The crux oft!1c problem is this: off-campus housing creates ideas. feelings and ways of living that arc in severe contrast to the two most distinctive characteristics of Notre Dame and of'what it hopes to foster. Those two goals are a strong sense of belonging to 'family', and a deep rnspect for and/or devotion to Catholicism. 
As a "community committed to Christian ideals" (Du Lac, p_-52), Notre Dame is at all times responsible for upholding the essence of our faith. What are the only two commands of Jesus Christ? Love God and Love Your Neighbor. All other church law and policy are just that: church law and policy, which may sometimes contradict Christ's most basic commands. Christ never excluded anyone ... especially sinners. Part of God's greatest mystery is that we will never completely understand and experience what He is: agape, or, unconditional love. So, we simply accept our role as believers. implement­ing faith and role-modeling of Jesus Himself to imitate his example as best as we can. 
When standing in judgment of those who tres-­pass the boundaries of Du Lac. the proper role 
en~ed._ The net effect 1s that 1t 1s d!fficult to receive important messages regardmg cam~us activities and impossible to be contacted whtle we are on _campus. 'Ye are The Leper Colony, excluded, isolated, different .. 
These problems can be eas1'.y ~olved. 
Why 1:1ot formulate an e-mail hst of all off-cam­pus residents so that they are kept posted on upcoming events, informed with campus news and included !n polls, questio?-s or s~rveys? llow about employing a centr~l vmce mail system (like the one we use for silent messages) and personal digit codes so that off camp~s studen~s always have ~ way ~o. be rea?hed? Pomt no. 8 m the Student Life Policies sectwn of Du Lac affirms that "the only appropriate manner in which to assimilate members into this communi­ty is to welcome them." I think if you ask off-campus students whether they feel "assimilated" to on-campus social organization, most would answer in the negative. 
Notre Dame has a mystique that no other University can claim. My personal cross to bear has not embittered me and I still feel that mys­tique, love the campus, and honor Notre Dame, Our Mother. My final suggestion is that the time is long overdue to correct the glaring inconsis­tency between Du Lac intentions and Ou Lac methods. It is time to make the actions match the noble words so that Christ"s most essential lesson is embodied. 
I still feel part of the Notre name family. I just consider myself a distant aunt instead of a resi­dent sister. 
Brittany Morehouse is a sophomore English and American studies major exiled to an off campus apartment. Her column runs every other Thursday. _ 
The views expresJ>·ed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
¦ EXERPTS FROM LETTERS 
Vinck Illogical, Hateful 
and Just Plain Wrong 
Inslead of engaging in an honest and open dialogue about the possiblfl '.\lon-Di?crimination Clause, Sean Vinck chose to cloud the matter by using words triggered at eliciting an nmotional n>.sponso when arguing against Urn clause. 
-Conor J. Murphy, Freshman, Zahm Hall 
Mr. Vinck's statement that the non-discrimination clause rnqucsts some kind of "special rights" is not only legally and factually incor­rect, it is indicative of the hostility and anti-gay sentiment that per­vades this University. 
-Mary Margaret Penrose. student, Notre Dame Law School 
Mr. Vinck, vou claim that the PSA hosts "meaningless events" with "semi-coherent" splmkers. I formally and publicly challenge you to present to mo and the rest of' this campus any evidence of incoher­ence by speakers at our events. You cannot do it 
-Paul A. Ranogajcc, Freshman, Morrissey Hall 
The PSA does not f'orce its views on anyone, but it does call for open-mindedness. It calls fur us to make sure we have a foundation for all of' those beliefs we cling to. many of which are centered around Catholicism and the PS/\ also asks that we make surn our beliefs follow the best interests of our religion. 
-Emily Dagostino. Freshman, Lyons Hall 
¦ So, WHAT's Mv POINT? 
Terrorist Islam is the Minority 
First we had Iraq. Then we had the Taliban. Now, we have Osama bin Laden making pro­nouncements promoting the swift and ruthless execution of all of us Yanks who pay taxes. 
It appears that we Muslims are not, to put it mildly, the greatest at public relations. Iraq has a dictatorship that seems to be bent on making nuclear and biological weapons (the U.S., however, is as much, if not more, to blame in the whole Gulf War scenario, but that's the topic of an altogether different article). 
The Taliban, unfortunately, have decided to forcibly enforce their idea of Islam on the entire country of Afghanistan. Thus, women have been forced to quit their jobs, leave their schools and universities and are unable to receive medical care. Moreover, they cannot, by law. leave their homes unescorted, and are all buildings in which women are reside have to have all of their windows painted black -blocking sunlight from women who can't leave. All of lhis has been done in the "name of Islam." 
Just this week, an interview with supposed terrorism pro­moter Osama bin Laden was broadcast. In the interview, bin Laden stated that it was a "duty" of all Muslims to kill Americans whenever and wher­ever possible. By Americans, bin Laden didn't simply mean mili­tary and government oflicials working in embassies. Oh, no. Bin Laden wants to kill all of' us Americans, even if we are nut working in the military or for the govermrumt, because we pay the taxes that support the mili­tary and the government. 
It is disturbing that so many in the U.S. believe the propaganda of the Taliban and bin Laden who tout their beliefs as being "Islamic." In truth, neither of the groups remotely represent Islamic ideals, beliefs or teach­ings. 
But because Muslims are but a 
small percentage of all 
Americans, and because they 
receive little favorable or under­
standing coverage by the main­
stream American press, Islam 
as a religion has been misunder­
stood. It seems that the only "believers" willing to speak up about Islam have nothing to do with religion, and everything to do with power and politics. 
Heligion has always been used as a political tool, a weapon to wield power over the masses. And in most cases, religions have been misrepresented and twisted to mean whatever the rulers want it to mean -what­ever is most beneficial to further their own political power and clout. 
In the United States, the Christian Coalition, headed by Pat Robertson, is a similar orga­nization. Ostensibly, the Coalition is a religious organiza­tion. Yet few would deny that the Christian Coalition is heavily and substantially involved in political activities, and it can be argued that the organization itself is in fact more political than it is religious. The Coalition favors many of the same issues that the Republican party does -anti-abortion, lower taxes, morn breaks for business. Moreover, the group has hnen one of the major forces both in campaign-l'undraising and in picking candidates in Republican primary Plections. 
Yet, there arc many Christians who wholelwartndly disagree with the Christian Coalition's agenda. their bnliers and espP­cially their perceiv<~d intoler­ance. Many people who consider themselves Christians also vote Democratic. The point lwrn is this: no matter how vocal rcpre­s1mtatives of' a religious group may be, that rloes not nrnan that they spr,ak for every rnembtir of' the entire group, or that they are even accurately represent­ing their religion. 
Thnrefore, it behooves thoso Americans who have little to no contact with "real" Muslims to think of the terrorist factions of Islam not as the mainstream fol­lowers, but as deviants further­ing their own political ends. 
Nakasha Ahmad is a junior English major at Saint Mary's. Her column appears every other Thursday. 
The views expressed in this 
column are those of the author 
and not necessarily those ofThe 
Obseroer. 





VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, January 28, 1999 OB~ERVER 

¦ LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Which Side? One of Justice 
I am chwply disturbed to mad two of the not bring those speakers, but ones which nrticlcs 1:onlui11crl within Tuosday, Jun. 2G would have a chance to not only excite but Vinwpoint pago. Tho articles, by seeming persuade. As it is, the PSA is only inllaming polar oppositos S(rnn Vinck and Aaron those set against them further. They seem to 
Kreidnr. betray events on the carnpw; which SP.cm to mak11 littln scmsn. Vinck rcvnals to us that tlw l'SA is scheduled to hav,1 1uwther rally, and Krnidi:r urges us to fost for justico. What on earth ure we to sift out of tlrnir 
rlrntoric'? 
I can undnrstanrl Vinck. Vinck seems only to bn r1w1!aling sonrnthing which has oddly (mough uMn kepl secret from us, the rest of thn student hody. l ar.tually 
'As1T ,s, THE PSA 1s 
ONLY INFLAMING THOSE SET AGAINST THEM FURTHER. THEY SEEM TO HAVE DONE NOTHING TO SERVE THEIR CAUSE, ONLY TO INCREASE TENSIONS ON 

CAMPUS.' 

have done nothing to serve their cause, only to increase tensions on campus. 
I would bfl in favor of an organized, intelligent. rea­soned conversation of the possible need for more rights for homosexuals. That how­ever is nut what this rally is. This rally can only inspire hate and feelings of self­rightnousness which are cer­tainly not in the spirit of King. King was reasoned. and his aim was not victory. 

had !ward vague rumors, and even e-mailed Krnid11r asking if they woro trun; there has not lwwevcr hnnn any public announcement ol' tlw l'St\'s inten-King argued from the Christian traditions of nonviolence and from lhe Old Testament prophets of justice. Somehow I have not 
heard any mentions 

tions. It strikes nm of Amos from the as suspicious that PSA, nor anything Krnirlnr rnfors to which vaguely King and yel his resembles an argu­orga11izatio11 prai:­ment from the tradi­lin•s things thnl arP tion of Christ. The most un-Kinglikc. It only things which I would ~enm that have heard are lil.J­with tlw rally ertarian philoso­impnnding Iii' il is phies of individual truly-sclwduled as rights, arguments 
soon as rwxt which are destruc­Tunsdayl one would tive to people and want to gel the word society. Kreider's 
out about great notions of fasting speakers coming to fall completely out­campus to proclaim side the Christian justice. understanding of 
It is rnally the fasts for justice, and choice ol' sp1iakers I he performs it for find most intnrcsting. the wrong reasons. I find myself curious When the PSA that tlrn predecessor begins to under­of J1\rry Springur has stand that their goal 
such a burning pas­should not be victo­sion tu bring justice. ry, perhaps they will I find it curious that have a chance at thn I'S;\ would invite achieving true jus­
sonwone who was tice. True justice for condemnml by the homosexuals does !louse for homosexu­not reside in our al child molestation recognizance and 
to speak for the acceptance of their caus1i of gay rights homosexuality. That -someone who lits would turn them 
thn stnrnotype of into little more than 
homosuxuals per-a concept, robbing 

fectly. I find it curi­ous that they would invite someone like Jackson who seems so bitterly opposed to the Catholic mores which this University aspires to. The only speaker which would help the cause to persuade a conservative administra­tion seems to be the bishop, though for those who know of his record, it is highly doubtful if he would persuade very many conservative Catholics. 
It seems lhal the purpose of the rally is not Lim lolly claim ofjustice which Kreider 
them of personhood. Instead, true justice lies in recognizing them as people in need of our Love. Only then will justice be achieved. 
Nathaniel Hannan 
Freshman, Dillon Hall rheology and philosophy Hannan.3@nd.edu January 26, l 999 

makes. If he really wanted justice, he would
'' 
If nobody ever said anything unless he knew what he was talking about. a ghastly hush would descend upon the earth." -Sir Alan Herbert 

Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
''On Abortion'' 


Column off the· Mark 

You're in dire straits. Stranded on a desert island, with no food or fresh water. Or, you're being held at gunpoint by a crazed mass murderer. Whatever. Anyhow, it's a matter of life and death. What do you do'? 
Well, it seems that the sugglis­tion of a particular Inside Columnist would be not to pray. Yes, that's it. Don't pray. It doesn't do anything. 
It's not fair to take her sugges­tions out of context, so we will put them back in: "Protesting will not stop gested before, it seems that wn approach the debate with an end in mind, and though we can accept bits and pieces of the opposition's argument, we can­not accept it as a whole. Seemingly, there is something non-rational that preempts this moral debate. (Above represents an attempt, however abortive, to do justice to ideas mentionnd in Maclntyre's Arter Virtue.) 
What estranges the two sides is the question ol' the presence of th'<i human soul. Pro-lil'ers would 
argue that 

abortion. the pro­Praying choice argu-Rosaries will nrnnt is not a
'WHO ARE WE TO TURN 

not stop abor­TO FOR DIR[CTlON, rational one tion. Even leg­to hold if the
GUIDANCE AND WlSDOM

islation will woman's not stop abor­ESSENTIAL IN THESE MORAL rights over tion ... " After self annihi­
MATTERS? SUGGESTION? 

some digres­late that of 
THAT POWER BEHIND THE 

sion, she then the innocent suggests that REAL MORAL LAW.' child's. And 
the only thing that will end abortion is "a serious addressing of the issues behind it." 
So, let us address the issues behind it. Succinctly put, one of the arguments put forth by pro­lifers is that abortion is the tak­ing of an innocent human life. Since murder is wrong, abortion is morally wrong and should be prohibited legally. 
An argument put forth by those arguing pro-choice might start with some sort of premise that humans have rights over their bodies. Since a fetus is at some point a part of a woman's body, she has the right to do with it as she wishes. Therefore, they conclude, abortion is a mat­ter of women's rights over their bodies. And these rights should not be tampered with legally. 
Therefore we have two argu­ments, both logically valid in and of themselves. and their conclu­sions e·nsue. The differences lie in the two premises, yet the premises are not such that they can be matched against one another with rational objections in mind. Each of these premises was invoked using a different set of claims: the pro-chokers using a person's rights over self, the pro-lil'ers using a person's right to life. These premises can hard­ly be weighed against each other. Though each argument has some sort of inherent ralio­nalitv. nevertheless, in the end, the l;onclusions are al odds with one another, irreconcilable with one another. As it has been sug­
whether or 
not the soul is present, even if it's an uncertain matter, should be the turning point of tho debate. Pro-choicers, of course, have (contrary to evi­dence?) asserted time and time again that the fetus is not homan and thus should not be granted rights accordingly. They regard the young life as parasitic cellu­lar matter subject to the moth­er's whim. 
What, then, are pro-lifers to do? It feels as :f dialogue with the opposition is fruitless, for it finds an end in a matter of senti­ment. Until others can be con­vinced of personal sentiments, what individuals regard as truths, a great schism divides the two sides. How is one to assert the presence of a human soul? If this were an issuo that could be swept under the table. the straits might not be so dire. But this is a matter of lifo and death. Who arc we to turn to for direction, guidance and wisdom essential in these morn! mat­ters? Suggestion? That Power behind tho real moral law. Though tlrn final answnr lay in the r.unversion of society. in the meantime let it be suggested that we contimw to pray. 
Sheryl Overmyer Sophomore, Walsh f lall January 26, 1999 

s

C 

.l~ It 
---------------Thursday,January 28, 1999


page 14 OBSERVER 


Previewing the KEE 
The annual comedy produ 
By LOUBEL CRUZ 
Assisram Scene Edit0r 
Imagine a theatrical extravaganza complete with musical acts. comedy skits and a packed auditori­um with an audience begging for more. Throw in twin jugglers and a couple of male coeds dressed as girls and you get the show of the year. 
No need to travel to Broadway or turn on Comedy Central for this must-see event. It's right here at Notre Dame. 
Yes. the Keenan Revue is upon us again, and stu­dents are ready for the crazy antics and side-split­ting jokes that make it one of the most famous and sought-after tickets of the year. 
The 23rd annual Keenan Revue opens at 7:30 

p.m. tonight, with the first of three shows held at O'Laughlin Auditorium on St. :\1ary's campus. The theme for this year's show is "20th Century Revue" in honor of the end of the millennium. 
"This is going to be the last Hevue in the 20th century and we want it to be the best," said musi-. cal director Ben Stauffer. 
"I don't want to compare Revues, but I promise you this one is dynamite," said producer Charley Gates. 
The Keenan Revue began in 1976 when a few Keenan Knights decided to hold a variety show in the residence hall's basement. From the start, Keenan wanted to furnish a source of fun and ani­mation for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. 
"We want to be able to provide other students an enjoyable three nights of entertainment," said Stauffer. 
"It is our pleasure to rejuvenate people's spirits by making them laugh at themselves and at the singularities of life at school." said Gates. 
The show is purposely set for the second semes­ter when the campus is less social without the football games or SYRs every weekend. 
"The Revue is Keenan Hall's gift to the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community during the bleak winter semester, a time when the social scenes on both campuses tend to slow down enor­mously," said Gates. 
Never in the history of the Revue has there been 

'The 20th Century l• 
a charge for admission. Keenan shows the Revue with no cost to students who get tickets for free on a first come, first serve basis. 
"We am extrcmdy proud that the show is free for the audience," said Stauffer. "It makes it more fun for us as well." 
"The Revue is our gift to the community, and who would charge someone for a gift you give them?" explained Gates. 
Gates insists that the purpose of the show is not to raise funds or money fur the.-dorm, but says the purpose is "nobler." 
"We put on the show to provide a night of hilari­ous hijinks for our friends at no cost to them," he 
'WHAT A BEITER WAY TO SPEND AN 
EVENING [THAN SEEING THE KEENAN 
REVUE]? IT COSTS NOTHING, IT'S HILARIOUS AND 
IT'S A NOTRE DAME TRADITION ..' 
CHARLEY GA TES PRODUCER, KEENAN RE\IUE 
said. 

The cost of producing the Revue is approximately $11,000, which is completely collected through fundraising by Keenan residents. 
"As producer, my staff and I began work back in late August to raise this massive sum for the show," said Gates. 
The residents conduct a Keenan Hall alumni mailing soliciting donations from former Knights in addition to selling advertisements to local campus organizations and businesses for their program. They also create and sell original Revue t-shirts and receive a grant from the Hall President's Council. 
Lead by Director Bill McNamara, about 17 5 
Keenanites participate in the show, with duties 
ranging from actors, set crew, musicians to ushers. "We encourage as many Keenanites as possible to get involved," said Gates. 
"I would say a majority of the dorm is involved whether they be in the skits or in fundraising," said Stauffer. 
Preparation for the Hevue began the week stu­dents returned from summer vacation when McNamara and <iates provided applications for their staffs. They conducted interviews and chose who would work in which position. The fundrais­ing takes up most of the time and groundwftrk. 
However, the skit auditions for the show take place just five days before opening night. 
"The actual show itself comes together in less than one week," said Gates. "I am amazed at how fast everything comes together in the end, but it always does." 
The Revue not only gives the audience a enjoy­able event, it is also a special time for Keenan resi­dents. The time and work put into the endeavor unifies and brings togetlwr the men. 
"The unity that the show builds within the dorm is incredible," said Gates. "I had the opportunity to work with some of Keenan's finest men and I have a lot of fun." 
Every tickeLfor the show was handed out last week to students who waited for hours to receive one. Keenan predicts more than 5,000 people will see the show over the course of three nights. 
"What better way to spend an evening?" said Gates. "It costs nothing, it's hilarious and it's a great Notre Dame tradition." 
When the curtain closes on Saturday night, the fianl showing of the 1999 Keenan Revue, there will be sense of loss among all the dorm's residents. 
"In a lot of ways I'll be like NATO aftnr the Cold War," said Gates."! just won't know what to do with myself." 
But the curtain will open again next year for the first show of the 21st century. 
"If the audience enjoys the show half as much as I did helping put it together, then we're all in for a real treat," said Gates. 





O
THE

·1·hurs<lay, January 28, 1999 -------------------page 15
BSERVER 

AN REVUE 
•
ion will enact Revue' 


• SCENE THROUGH OUR Eves . 
Bathroom humor and 


By MIKE VANEGAS 
Mtht~n:t.,$eM1¢ Eduot 
To tho Jeft of this column, you will see a preview of this weekend's 'must see' event, The Keenan Hovue. Though the Revue is a campus tradition that has endured for more than t'!9,decades, it ispnJy now. atthe end of' the rnlllenimn, that fts'.chara.cteristic' bathroom humor has COIDtJ to the forefront dr'American society. 
YM. The Keenan Revue is the originating point for all that is wrong and too funny about America. Please. let me explain. 
'J'his past summer, we all hopefully saw the hit comedy "1.;here's Something About Mary." As one of the mor~1 suc­cessful movies inyears, of any genre, "Mary" proved that Ame,rica.n audiences can embrace anything, from bodily flu­ids as hair gel to killer zippers. 
This is not to say that the Keenan Revue pleasures Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students with such far-out maneuvers -Brother Bonaventure would never allow it. But the Revll(~ does subscribe.to the innuendo and sometimes subtle and huj:rlornus interplay that feeds into the concrete uproar o 
~Mary:" · · 
this is the key to the R~wue's infiltration of Notn~ Dame society -it creates an atmosphere where what is socially accepted is gradually lowered to the more disgusting and more reprehensible . 
.~ .there's nothing wrong with that. For America -at
l. ·..the/\merica into which we all hope to enter upon grad­ua-tion ,...... has cast a harsh spell on all parties who support th~raunch that providos a foundation for the Revue. And WO students are often the subjects of ridicule when it comes to this "contamination of American society." We students are also the bringers of the l'uture; it is us who will be leading this .n.l'!,tion into thenext millenium. ' $(}we must do as we please -whether it be accepting our peets' scorn, of french-kissing our pooches. This transitory malaise that exudes this gross quality of humor is the only healthy way of transforming our childlike, family humor into the sophisticated and respected adult humor that character-ize1:Jour parents and grandparents. · . 

The Keenan Revu~ is a riecessary factor in the metamor­
Pfall.s!it!,l1)n;t~ ill the Notr(;l Dame Family. lt is the only 
at we: can focus our days on intense study and unfortu­
nate doubts of the future, while still maintaining a zeal for life and all that is fun in this world. Though this necessary focus on studying will prepare us for our futures, the inclu­sion ofzealous fun is the sole reason we keep that focus . 
. Some may call such events as the Revue a safety valve that m,erely releases the tension of everyday lifo without providing pel'mrinent resolutions to the tension. Of course, the pooplo who say this•are those who cannot and are unwilling to try to understand the real impetus behind the Revue's long history -it is a cha.nee for students to facilitate thtiir creative capacitfos in a place (this universityl where creativity is abandoll!:ld for strict guidelines and rigid an~lyses.
'f~eKeenan R<:ryu(;l, hence,Js a champion of the stud(rntsouJ'.tlwre who just wish that there was someone or some group who cares for them. not intimately or in the way that a mother l.'ares fol' a child, but as people who nood and want w smile or laugh. 
Why else would "There's Something About Mary" end up grb$slng over $175 million in the U.S.? Why elsl~ would Adam Sandler bocome a household name and bH nbJe to comrrrnnd $20 1nilllon por picturn'! Why else would the Hevue garner a full house ui each of its showings? 
Jt's the new American way. 
The views expressed in Scene Through Our Eyes are those cif tlpJ author ~n.d rJ()t necessatUy of The Observer. 
.. 
,.. 
... 

-------------------------. --­
1r-----­
---·-­

SPRING BREAK 991 5 or 6 Bed Rm Furnished House CONGRATS! So, Mark DeBoy, does it make you Cancun • Nassau • Jamaica 333 N. Hill St Yeah Zahm, way to show up and feel better to know that you can gel
NOTICES 

Travel Free and make lots of Sec Sys!., rally for our candidates running for classifieds again? ;) 
Cash! FEMALE Wash/Dry office in 99. Spring Break Bahamas Party Top reps are offered on-site staff LEAD SINGER 233-9947 GOOD LUCK TO ALL.... Hey Colin • How about chinese for Cruise!5Nights $279!1ncludes Iobs. dinner tonight? Meals & Free Parties! All-Inclusive Deals. Needed to complete BED 'N BREAKFAST FEAR, catch the fever .... Awesome Beaches.Nightlife! Special Discounts up to $100 per new original/cover REGISTRY Tambre -I'll miss jackie Lynn on fri­Departs From Florida!Cancun & person. campus band 219-291 ·7153 diane are you ready for heartland? day? What will we do without her? Jamaica $399' Lowest price Guaranteed. {must be willing to sing all springbreaktravel.com Call now for detalls! kinds of pop/rock/top40) 3 BDRM, DUPLEX I know I am. Finally, I get to go CT • What was that random object 1-800-678·6386 www.classtravel.com REMODELED, back. flying off the loft? 
800/838-6411 Call DAN @ x 1197 501EDDY ST. Spring Break Panama City $129! for immediate audition 1 Ml. FROM CAMPUS there is nothing better than the Hey Noodle • Do you miss your Boardwalk Room Piano Trumpei Sax .APPLIANCES, W/D. throngs of people on Thursday face yet? w/Kilchen Guitar & Bass Players for 273-8332 night. 
NextTo Clubs! Shenanigans Band WHERE MY DOGGS AT? 7 Parties-Free Drinks!Daytona for 3 big shows Need child care for my 8 year old except loving, caring Ras. 
FOR SALE
$149!South Beach $129!Cocoa and optional spring break tour. daughter 4~M-5:30PM Monday thru . Kirk, I think I'm gonna give you a Beach $149! Call Meg at 4-2573. Thursday.Good pay.Need car.Call 215 sorin, did you think I forgot you call this springbreaktrave1.com Lisa 277-8564 after 6PM. even without mark there? I hope weekend ... ababababbabobaoboba 1-800-678-6386 ADOPT:Help us make our family For sale: Digitech RP-20 you miss me. obababb 
complete. guitar floor pre-amp/effects proces­Two autistic children need students Let us give your newborn a FOR RENT sor, Ex. condition dude, I love the late shift Congratulations Michelle Krupa! to work with them doing behavioral loving.happy home and only 1 year old. Wednesday night News loves you! 
therapy, a wonderful future. HOUSE FOR RENT. $350 ob.o. Sand M in 99, vote Sean and Mike Training provided. Expenses paid. TWO BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS Call Brendan at 287-991 o. when you go to the poles. So many boys, so little time. Call Pam@ 273-2761. Please call Lucille and Michael 4-5 BR. Available June for 
1-800-468-9311 , Summer, August tor Fall. NEW Rales Phone Cards KT, I can't believe you got me. Love is not like a potato. You can't GET THE HECK OUT OF HERE' , Dishwasher, Washer/Dryer, Full 282 min.$20 call 258-4805 throw it out the window. Mexico.the Caribbean or Jamaica Looking for a Female Student Basement, Large Backyard and Off We have Troubs on Thursday, -Russian Proverb $250 r/1.Other worldwide destina­to assist the Clay High School Streel Parking. 89 Ford Probe GT (made by right? I think they're in Miller's tions cheap. Girl's Track Team MONITORED SECURITY SYSTEM Mazda) $1600, call 634 4303. room. Spoonball...catch the fever. 
Book tickets on line daily M-F, INCLUDED. www.a1rtech.com 3:00p.m.-5:30p.m. CAii 289-4712. Nick. Chris, Brian. Hugh. Chad, Bruinball ... catch the flu. or (212)219-7000 Please Joe, John, Brian, Ryan, and Jon, contact Head Coach Hamilton WALK TO SCHOOL TICKETS What's up? You didn't think I 'd get those things at 271-1345, 2·66EDROOM
WANTED 
in, John, did you? or 235-5858ext. STARTING $185 BOB DYLAN 1st. 5 ROWS Emily likes boys. She told me so. 2565 asap. MONTH/PERSON WWF. RINGSIDE 1st. 10 rows And now it's tirne for the quote of SALES & MARKETING 232·2595 272-7233. Hi Kate. 222, 233, 244. Wow. the week... "Minnesota is not really INTERNSHIPS Needed Immediately·· 
a baseball city." The Observer University Dir~ctories offers Wheelchair bound woman 
Tom, I told you to stop looking at sports department thanks you tor paid.full-time summer sales and needs assistance NICE HOMES FOR NEXT PERSONAL that stuff on the internet! your support. 
marketing internships.open to all with housework, yardwork, and SCHOOL YEAR 
disciplines. errands. NORTH OF ND 8,6.4.3 •• ATTENTION LESBIAN, GAY, The greatest hockey name of all J·E·T-S JETS JETS JETS Thanks -..... .BEDROOM BISEXUAL AND QUESTIONING time: Chad Chipchase Vinny from Elmont for a great sea­
College credit available.Training 4-8 hours each weekend @ 
program $7/hour. 2773097 STUDENTS .. Original student son. We'll get'em next year. Great resume booster! 1(800)743· Call 616-663·2573 
group will hold support meeting I finally get to see ER, and it's a 
5556 or or 219-273-7045 to apply, '99-'00 LOADED!6 Bedrm. $800 TONIGHT. Call info line for details rerun. Story of my life. Good night!!!l!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!l!!!I www.universityd1rectories.com Ask for Linda. mo. 273-0482/234-3831 236-9661. Oh well That's all folks. 
Thursday, January 28, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page IG 
¦ MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL
¦ MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

Hitchcock••...·malesi,,, Abbott heads for Milwaukee 
,:·,,-:):;;i'\:::--•·· 

Associated Press have to beat him out because Angels in the first round of the we're penciling him in as one 1988 amateur draft out of the
deal with~2:Pa<l.tes 

MILWAUKEE of the starters," said Bandu, University of Michigan, Abbott Jim Abbott will take his who is hoping Abbott's experi• has an 85-100 career record comeback to the National encc and work ethic will aid and 4.12 ERA.
As_w_cia_1_ed_P_,,...ess__~~ ...-~..,_ ·li,e,.:h},;,;,a_~
..~-•....

-

League, where the one-hand­his young pitching staff. Abbott, who retired after a ed pitcher will have to bat for One thing Abbott is sure poor spring training in 1997, 
...~ ., ~<lr".* 
SAN DIEGO . , ... i.iid/' '.; , . ..·· ·-· '' "' San Diego Padr~s left-ban-Hitchcock wil turn 28 on 

the first time since high won't be an inspiration to his gets a $400,000 base salary rler Sterling Hitchcock, who A ril 29. ..·.·· • · 
school. teammates is the way he's and the chance to earn beat former Cy Ypi,mg win~ ;!!V§ry few estalilifbed.pitcli• · 'Tm really excited about it," conquered his disability. $200,000 in performance ners in three suaight playoff · · .me out 011 free ~gent,,, 
said Abbott. who agreed "Well. not in '96 they sure bonuses: $40,000 each for 12, starts, agreed We?D.: to a<, )il:at ·g,'qf aPt 
Wednesday to a $600,000, weren't inspired," Abbott 16, 20, 24 and 28 starts. The $t5;5million, tbr.ee" con:' a .. ,::tower .., . . . , one-year contract with the cracked about his 2-18 season pitcher and the team havf1 a tract. ·Hitchcock gets:'a $3 roHlion 
Milwaukee Brewers. "I'm in Anaheim. "No, you know, I $1. 5 million mutual option for lUtchcock, who ·got the signing bonus and:a $2.5 mil· 
looking forward to swinging think it comes down to pitch­2000 with a $200,000 buyout. largest deal in club history•. Hon salary thl'a•Yea.r. He'll 
the bat. I hope I can hold my ing well. The novelty of my Abbott said his goals are 30 considered going to·;trbitra.. earn $5 million · both WOO 
own." playing I think has long since starts and 200 innings. Abbott, a 31-year-old left. passed, and I'm as account­"I think any pitcher that
tiQri; an.d then ~iliil~tfor fr~~ ;lty:r);4QOJ.Jt · ;tq:n:irt•;: 
agency after the 1~99,.se~on, ··· · ·ye .. <, .,;$. 

hander, was 5-0 with a 4,55 able as the next guy down the does that as a starter has real­but said the team's'llii-f3e•year -.· ,. 'et,ic}<'s ()O,Ooo•" 
ERA for the Chicago White Sox line. I have to go out there and ly given his contribution to the commitment and'.the fans·• . larger than .t ,(t''t l'e~•year 
last year in five late-season do well. team," he said. "That's the response during the Padres' contract slugger Cr~1rVaughn 
starts after a successful stint "And if I can go out there kind of pitcher I prided mysp,lf' World Series run 'convinced sigoed in FebrMryJ?97 and,. 
in the minor leagues. and give my team a chance to on being earlier in my career. him to stay. th~,three~y0t1(ext;ensio:n .Andy., 
General manager Sal Bando win, pick up the innings, that's And that's the pitcher I would said Abbott would have a spot how you gain respect. not by like to get back to being."
"There's· always rt ·d~sire W \ ·· · _" .•...'·. ..~·.•.· ..... Si.,•n: ...
..J_,nh.. e...·.w,>i'::... ••.-.a.•,• ..·:.•••
.••.~.y·1~.·.1_,m.'

play .closer to ij:ciaie}tpii,~ alJ; 4 .~~s-" , in the Brewers rotation. my switching the glove and all But now he'll see if he can the way across the country, . , who ..... ays taken> 
"For me, it's his spot to lose. that stuff." not only pitch in the NL. but hutl'm very comfortable in less'to.remain m:$imDiego, is 
I mean, someone's going to Selected by the California hit, too. San Diego," Hitchcock said en~dng th!# s~on,l.year of a from hjs Florida home, $ .6 roilli-0n/tl)ree-vear 
¦ MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
"Cei;tainly, I thipl¢if.~lj.owed · ~~Jq:r(tie;t'" ''··· Jq.~pril; wha.tkind .of ba~oalVi,townitF ,"')i,.' is With { dori''t'ltJtow how .. ,, Y';toi'np 
.·.·.••. . . .. 

Cardinals acquire Baerga 
many nights of60,00Q-plus make $15 1nU . · .. in each of attendance. It's a hard place thefinalsixye1'rsiof.the $105 to turn down to play when the mUlion. seven·y~ar deal he 

Associated Press The Cardinals' second base­million, six-year contract, has
club shows it's serious about sig:nedwith the Dodgers. 

man for the past two seasons, a .293 career average withkeeping you." i .••·•.,.·•· ,Fiitchc.oc · · · tillian.t in ST. LOUIS Delino DeShields, agreed in 121 homers and 676 RBIs. lie
General manag·er Kevin· th~•p§stsea. ... tingRa.ndf 

The St. Louis Cardinals December to a $12.5 million, gets a $1 million salary,Towers said it wa.s imperative Jolinson in the . ing game · 
filled their need for a second three-year contract with which will be increased to to lock up Hitchcock, who of the division series win over 
baseman by agreeing Baltimore. St. Louis consid­$1.25 million if he's on the
began 1998 in the bullpen H9uston, then winning against 

Wednesday to a $1.25 million, ered signing Pat Meares, let opening day roster.
and ended up as MVP of the Greg Maddux and Tom 

one-year contract with free go last month by Minnesota, The signing continues theNL championship seri.es· win Glavine. 
agent Carlos Baerga. and moving him from short­revamp of tho Cardinals. First over Atlanta. Hem bi1,the No•. ·· 'l1ilgofa poL 
·a.gajr.isL 
Baerga, a switch hitter, was stop to second base. Meares baseman Mark McGwirn and 2 starter th is ye~f behind . atlpther tonne •···· ···• .-ng Wln· 
a three-time All-Star with was seeking about $2 million. center fielder Hay Lankford
Andy Ashby. who moves up · ner, David Cone;inGame 3 of Cleveland but his production Baerga, 30, had his best arA the only remarn1ng

with the loss of Kevin Brown the World Series, the Padres 

has dropped off sharply since season in 1993, when he hit starters from last year'sto the division riva.l Los were swept by thttYankees. 
he was traded to the New .321 with 21 homers and 114 opening day lineup.
Angeles Dodgers. "For me .to ·a-1:;hieve that 

York Mets in 1996. RBIs, He hit .314 the follow­Since the end of last season,
"Being left~hapg~.d · and l~.¥fl1 on a lllrire,;poilsJstent 

"Carlos is an experienced, ing season, dropped to .254 St. Louis has signed outfield­
pit~hing as. well a$,p~ did the .•. ·~~isJhisye •... . .alrilyriot 

quality infielder who gives us with Cleveland in 1996, then ers Eric Davis and Darren 
latter part of tb1:j$,eason and. vufoftheq··· ... n," s/l,i'd 

good offensive potential at hit .193 during the rest of the Bragg and reliever Scott
in the postseason, we just felt Hitchcock, whl(h11s an.effec~· 

second base and versatility season with the Mets and .281 Radinsky, and traded for
it would have been very tough tive>splH~fiffger fastball. "I 

from both sides of the plate," and .266 during his full sea­reliever Ricky Bottalico,to re~sign him Jfhe has a . · · · · d a lot hose fi:mr" Cardinals general manager sons in New York. starter Garrett Stephenson

com.parable ye 

Walt Jocketty said. Baerga, coming off a $21.4 and shortstop Edgar Renteria. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame otlice, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
Classifieds 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right 10 edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Thursday, January 28, 1999 The Observer• PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
,_... 

Ree-.::~~-, 
(%:.,....,.~·IAa · Student Award 
RecSports "Champion Student Award" recipients are selected by the Office of Recreational Sports. Honorees are chosen for their involvement in RecSports, including excellence in sportsmanship, leadership and participation. 


Melissa Gorman serves as the Athletic Commissioner for Pasquerilla East. A Science (pre-professional) and Spanish major from Cheyenne, Wyoming, Melissa has participated in a wide variety of RecSports activities including interhall football, soccer, volleyball, basketball and softball. She serves as the Late Night Olympics representative from her hall and is a frequent user of the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center. Melissa is the receiving end of the deadly Plummer­Gorman pass combination for the current lnterhall Football champions. Melissa starred in volleyball, basketball and track at Cheyenne Central High School. 
Recipients receive <I:~merchandise from the &... 
VARSITY,.•.SHOP 
"Specializing in Authentic Notre Dame Sportswear" 
(Joyce Center) 
Jla'&. 
VARSITY SHOP 

.. 'l'I'
-R~~~ 

"Specializing in Authentic 
www.nd.edu/-recsport 

Notre Dame Sportswear" 

Look for this award to appear in the Observer every other Wednesday. Students selected receive (I:~ 
,.....la...~.;~~ :a: I:.. ....
merchandise courtesy of ........,__....,.7 _ r~ and the v7ir7ior with two locations in the Joyce Center. The virfio; is open Monday-Saturday 9:00am to 5:00pm and Sunday 12:00pm to 4:00pm. (Phone: 631-8560). 

Thursday, January 28, 1998 The Observer• SPORTS page 18 
¦ GOLF 

Nicklaus out for six weeks with hip replacement 
Associated Press 
The next time Jack Nicklaus makes one of his revered runs al Augusla National, he'll be doing it on a ceramic left hip. 
Nicklaus, 59, had hip replace­ment surgery Wednesday in Boston and will be· on crutches for the nexl six weeks. He will miss the Masters for the first time in 40 years and possibly the U.S. Open in June, but the doctor who operated on him said then' was no reason to bPlieve Nicklaus would not be competitive again. 
"Everything went well."Benjamin E. Bierbaum, head of orthopedic surgery at New England Baptist Hospital, said aftpr the 1-hour. 45-minute operation. "No complaints. No surprises. I was pleased with how Pverything raml' along." 
Nicklaus. winner of a record 18 profPssional majors, had a degenerative left hip that had troubled him for years. He tried to avoid hip ·replacement surgery with a rigorous exercise routine, but finally yielded when the hip began to affect his quali­ty of life as well as his game. 
Nicklaus was resting Wednesday afternoon and· unavailable to comment. 
But Bierbaum said he was in good spirits after the surgery ­and before. Nicklaus told the doctor as the procedure was getting started, "I would rather be one down walking up the 18th fairway in Augusta than be here." 

The surgery will give him that chance. 
'Tm very much looking for­ward to what it can do for me down the road,"Nicklaus told Golf.com last week. "For the last three to four months ... I haven't been ahIP to do much of anything. I'm not used to that. That's not the way I've lived my life. 
"I've been playing on one leg, essentially. for several years." 
Nicklaus agreed to use a ceramic replacement as part of a study directf'd by Bierbaum and involving 10 hospitals. Ceramic is smoother than mate­rials typically used in hip implants and is believed to last longer. 
Nicklaus will remain in the hospital for six days before returning home lo Florida. Bierbaum said Nicklaus would be on crutches for six weeks so the hone and soft tissue could heal. After that, he would gu through a strengthening, flexi­bility and agility program that could take at least six more weeks. 
"We're talking around three months until he is able to hit some golf balls,"Bierbaum said. 
One reason Nicklaus opted for hip surgery now was to make sure he could play in 2000, when the majors are played on 
Is y.ourf:rle:.ad?s. blr.thday coming\up? Advertise· lt ie ,l:he·.(lbserver•! 
e come to our " new "home: 
courses that Nicklaus helped make famous -Pebble Beach, where ho won the U.S. Open in 1972; SL Andrews, where he won two of his three British Opens; and Valhalla outside Louisville, designed by Nicklaus and later bought by the PGA of America. 
Still, Nicklaus is not ruling out the rest of 1999. Bierbaum esti­mated the recovery would take at least six months, hut Nicklaus has said he would like to be ready for his own tournament the first week in June. · 
"My goal is to try to get back before the Memorial Tournament and try to play there,"Nicklaus said last week in Monterrey, Calif., where he is designing a new course. "If not. maybe the Open right after that." ­
Despite the hip problems. Nicklaus became tho oldest player to finish in the top 1 O in the Masters last April when he thrilled the Augusta gallery yet again with a final-round 68 to tie for sixth. But he was hob­bling so badly in the summer that he pulled out of the l)ritish Open, ending his streak of 146 consecutive majors. 
This will be the first time Nicklaus has missed the Masters since 1958, four years before he turned pro and began one of the greatest careers in 

KAT Photo 
golf. 

Jack Nicklaus will miss the Masters for the first time since 1958 because of a degenerative left hip. 






Thurs<lay, January 28, 1999 The Observer• PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 
---·-----------------------------------------~-­
Calendar of Events 
Freshman Retreat #21 (February 12-13) Sign-Up 
103 Hesburgh Library, 112 Badin Hall or see your rector Targeted Dorms: Caroll, Cavanaugh, Dillon, Lewis, McG!inn, Pangborn, Siegfried, Sorin, and Zahm 
Africentric Spirituality: Sankofa Scholars Awards Assembly 
Thursday, January 28, 5:30 p.m. 
Campus Bible Study 
Tuesday, February 2, 7:00-8:00 pm Badin Hall Chapel 
Celebration Choir Rehearsal 
Wednesday, February 3, 8:30-9:45 pm, 102 Earth Sciences Building 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
Wednesday, February 3, 10:00-10:30 p.m. Walsh Hall 
THIRD SUNDAY IN ORDINARY TIME 
Weekend Preslders at Sacred Heart Basilica Saturday, January 30 
5:00 p.m. Rev. Edward A Malloy, C.S.C. 
Sunday, January 31 
10:00 a.m. Rev. David J. Scheidler, C.S.C. 
11:45 a.m. Rev. David J. Scheidler, C.S.C. 
Scripture Readings 
1st Reading Zephaniah 2:3; 3:12-13 2nd Reading 1 Corinthians 1:26-31 Gospel Matthew 5:1-12 
A Black History Month Celebration Africentric Spirituality: A Two-Part Series Part I-"The History of Black Catholics in the United States in the 19th and 20th Centuries" 
A foxhole experience during World War II introduced my father to the Roman Catholic faith. In the midst of battle and his impending fear, he asked to be bap-. tized by a Catholic chaplain. From that mo~ent on, my spiritual and religious des­tiny was determined by my father's decision to seek God in the fear of a soldier's experience. But being baptized was more than just a spontaneous plea for God's help. Fur my father, becoming a Catholic became a commitment for life. 
Outside of his foxhole, my father remained a Roman Catholic in theory and prac­tice. My parents raised their children in the Catholic faith. Our first introduction to God was through the sacramental life of the Church. We graduated from Catholic schools. My brother was a Catholic priest for most of his life. We have always par­ticipated in Catholic liturgies: from altar boys to choir members, we were there. Our children are baptized Catholics. But there's a long and passionate history behind why we stayed and fought for our place in the pew. 
Throughout Black History Month, the historical unfolding of The History of Black Catholics in the United States in the 19th and 20th Centuries will be on exhibit in the Concourse of Hesburgh Library. The unprecedented book The History of Black Catholics in the United States, written by Fr. Cyprian Davis, O.S.B., professor of his­tory and archivist at St. Meinrad Archabby in Indiana, is the major resource for the exhibit. From Christianity's Ethiopian origins to a pictorial of our current Black bishops, the role of Black Christians throughout the initial growth and formation of the Roman Catholic Church will be highlighted. We will examine the realities of American segregation embedded in the realities of the Black Catholic experience. From Fr. Augustus Talton, the first self-identified black priest in the United States, to Sr. Thea Bowman, F.S.P.A., the recipient of Notre Dame's Laetare Award in 1990, for centuries Black Catholics have forged ahead and dedicated their lives to Christian witness in spite of the American dynamic of race, class and social stratifi­cation. Thanks to the unveiling of our Catholic history in the context of its African origin, our American experience dictates that we stay. Like my father, Black Catholics have been faithful and committed to a religious tradition which, when understood, speaks to the heart. 
The exhibit begins the Black Catholic story in North Africa. With the sacred inter­mingling of African and European cultural influences throughout the first half of the first millennium, North Africa was the birthplace of Christianity's formation. From St. Augustine to St. Moses the Black, from the intellectual to the contempla­tive, the North African influence in the early Church is a reminder that Africa forms part of the rich heritage of Catholicism. 
From North Africa we travel to a new world where Esteban, a black slave, was bap­tized in Spain and a Catholic when made part of an expedition to Florida in 1536. Esteban's arrival begins a Black Catholic presence in the United States prior to the British settlement in Jamestown, Virginia, in 1607. 
Except for the good will of a few European American clergy and wealthy benefac­tors, throughout the 19th anq parts of the 20th century the American Catholic Church saw very little value in a Black Catholic presence. However, despite racism and seemingly unsurmountable odds, Black clergy, religious and laypersons emerged to serve their people. From Pierre Toussiant, the Haitian-born slave and eventual philanthropist and servant of God, to Dr. Lena Edwards, who, along with Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., received the Medal of Freedom in 1964, Black Catholics have been and continue to be a positive and reformative force in the American Catholic Church. The presence of a Black Catholic episcopate and the inculturation of African and African American sacred Christian traditions in the Roman liturgical rite are visible indicators of the importance of an Africentric spiri­tuality within a Eurocentric religious framework. When the history is understood and embraced, Africentric spirituality and Catholicism become synonymous terms. 
The History of Black Catholics in the United States in tl1c 19th and 20th Centuries exhibit 
in the Hesburgh Library will take us through an historical journey of Christian wit­ness, of Black and Catholic pride and prowess. Steeped in faith and determined to be Church, people of African descent have contributed to the American Catholic Church in ways which explain why people like my father embraced the faith and 
passed it on to their children. We are the product of their spiritual conviction. We 
are the fruit of their labor in and love for the Roman Catholic Church. At the University of Notre Dame, we are small in number yet visible and strong. We con­
tinue the tradition and like those who came before us, we hope to leave our mark 
and continue the history for those destined to follow in our footsteps. 
Chandra J. Johnson 
Assistant to the President Assistant Director for Cross Cultural Ministr 
-
.. 
-0MPUS 
MINISTRY 


Thursday, January 28, 1999 
The Observer• SPORTS 
page 20 


Fourth IOC member resigns in Salt Lake scandal 
Associated Press 
NAIROBI. Kenya 
A fourth JOC member impli­cated in the Salt Lake City bribery scandal rnsigned Wednesday, three days after he was accused of accepting pay­ments arranged by the bidders. 

Kenya's Charles Mukora, one of six IOC members facing expulsion, proclaimed his inno-· cence even as a quit. David Sibandze of Swaziland, Libya's Bashir '.Vlohammed Attarabulsi and Finland's Pirjo Haeggman bad previcrusly quit, and five others have been essentially ousted pending a formal lOC vote in mid-March. 
Mukora, 64, denied receiving any money personally. The IOC said he received $34,650, but
... 
Mukora said tbe casb was for "sports development in Kenya"and "world youth sport­ing activities." 
"I have nevf'r been party to any improper dealings in Lhe last 40 years I have been involved as a volunteer in Kenyan sports and sports man­agement or as an IOC mem­ber, "said Mukora, an roe member since 1990. "The monies that I am alleged to have received as regards to Salt Lake City were monies paid towards the establishment of high altitude training camps in Nanyuki, and I have not used the monies for my person­al use or personal purpose. 
"I was an innocent victim of circumstances. However, the president of the International Olympic Committee has advised us to tender our resig­nations before March 17-18 in order to put these allegations to rest. I have decided there-· fore to accept his advice on principle." 
The others ousted are Lamine Keita of Mali, Jean­Claude Ganga of the Republic of Congo, Zein El Abdin Ahmed Abdel Gadir of Sudan, Agustin Arroyo of Ecuador and Sergio Santander of Chile. 
ln addition, Anton Geesink of the Netherlands received a warning and Louis Guirandou­N'Diaye of Ivory Coast, Kim Un-Yong of South Korea and Vitaly Smirnov of Russia remain under investigation. 
The IOC said president Juan Antonio Samaranch "compli­mented Mr. Mukora for taking the honorable path"and called for others "to follow Mr. Mukora's lead and tender their resignations." 
The IOC investigation con­cluded Keita "knowingly per­mitted"Salt Lake City bidders to make payments totaling more than $97,000 from 1993­97 to support his son at the University of Utah. 
'Tm a "tighter by nature, not 
someone who resigns,"Keita "Universities in the United 
was a $150 limit on the total 
was quoted as telling the Swiss States give scholarships all the amount of gifts an IOC memberdaily Le Matin. 'Tm going to lime,"he said. 
could receive from a city, butdefend myself. The statutes Sibandze told a news confor­
added: "I never asked aboutgive us the right." e nce that he also received lhe value of a gift."
Sibandze, who resigned numerous gifts, including "It was not my .intent to let
Fridav, said he helieved there paintings and sculptures, from 
the IOC expel me,"Sibandze was nothing wrong with his the Salt Lake City Olympic 
said. "That's the manner in son receiving $100,000 in Committee while it was wooing which the IOC has approachedscholarships and living expens­IOC members. 
those problems. I resigned in es from the University of Utah. Sibandze said he knew there the interests of my country." 
.,, MEN1S TENNiS .,, 
VS. #7 TEXAS Saturday, January 30th 
@ l~p.m. 
at Eck Pavilion--FREE! !! 
TRACK & FIELD (d·ual meet) 
vs. INDIANA 
Friday, January 29th 
6 p.m.at Loftus --FREE!!! 

,-------------------------------,.._-----·------~---------------~­
page 21 The Observer• SPORTS Thursday, January 28, 1999 
¦ NFL 
Super Bowl preparations begin 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 

For more than three decados, Supnr Bowl Sunday meant little to the Atlanta Falcons. It was a day to spend almost anvwlrnro but in front of' a t1dcvisio11 set, watching two othnr teams vie for the NFL tilhl. 
For morn than two dncadns. Supnr Bowl Sunday was down­right painful !'or the Denvnr Broncos. fl was a day for !'ans to stay away from their TV sots lo avoid tlw carnHgn. 
Wlinn thoy m eel at Pro Player Stadium on Sunday, both teams might spend a monwnt ref11\1:ting on just how l'ar t.lwy'vn ronw in thn past. year. 
For tlw Broncos, their sixth Super Bowl is Pntirnly unlike all tlw otlwrs. They've come lwrn as champions. carrying a self'-conl'idencP and. yes, a swaggPr that thoy gairrnd by finally winning tlw big ganw. 
Tlrny'rn even kPnping a lighl­lwal'ltld atmosplrnrn at prac­tic!'s. On Wt•drwsday. a light plan1i trailing a nwssagn ol' "B rorwos · KPi th Burns at B1•achplac1~ Today 7-10 p.111." drPW sonH' good-natured razz­ing' from his toamrnates, who yPIIPcl, "You na Man." 
The Falcons, rrnver bef'orn a charnpionship factor, finished 7-'J in ·11J'J7. Yet now they've romP to Miami with tlrn high-1·sl of' PXpPctations, a slight Sl'!lSI' or awP mixl'd in with a lwavy dos1• of' innocence, and tlw n•cognition of how diffcr­1inl things am this .January. 
Whil1i both are playing for the same reward, limy are approaching tlw chance to Im atop tlw i r profossion from entirnly dif'!'Prnnt pnrspnclivos. 
llappily for Denver, that 11w11ns not having to answ1ir all thosP "Why did you Iose'?" 
questions. 
"It's a lot more pleasant, the fact you're not talking about past Super Bowl failures all the time," John Elway said. "It's a heck of a lot more posi­tive. From 1988 until last year. I answered the question whether my career would be complete without u Super Bowl victory. I haven't had to answer that question since." 
Now tho questions are about repeats and dynasties. The Broncos arc so self-assured that they have no problem dealing with those topics. In tho past, thny merely hoped they could win a Super Bowl. Now, they know they can. 
"Whenevnr you get into a game of this magnitude and los11 l'our in a row. it definitely takns somn wind out of your sails," said Mike Lodish, who went through his own personal Supnr Bowl trauma (0-4) with Buffalo before joining Denver and getting that first title 12 months ago. lie wasn't oven in tlrn l1rnguc when the Broncos lost tlwir fourth Supm· Bowl in as many trios in 1990. 
"To win it is something you can't nwasuro. the feeling you get is so great." 
That f'neling has bred a bold­noss and croatod a confidence in tlrn Broncos that is immedi­ately nolicrablc. Where previ­ous AFC champs from Denver seemed to fear what might happnn in t Im Super Bowl, tlrns11 guys can't wait to prove their mettle once more. 
"Last year, we had all the questions about nnvnr having won a Super Bowl," placekick­tir .Jason Elam said. "We were big underdogs to the Packers and no one gave us a chanc11 against them. I think there was more pressure on us in that game. 
"This season, we came in expecting to go back. We're playing with a lot of confi­dence, but at the same time, we're not complacent. We're not taking the Falcons for granted." 

But just about everyone else took them for granted for nearly as long as the Sup<1r Bowl has existed. 
It has been clear all week that the Falcons -with the rare exceptions of Cornelius Bennett, Eugene Robinson and coach Dan Reeves -feel privi­leged to be hem. They might not be in over their heads, but they aren't exactly old hands at this Super Bowl stuff, either. 
"I've been through 12 hard years of blood, sweat and tears." Jessie Tuggle said. "and to l"inally get here, how much sweeter can it be than that? I wanted to bo a part of the solution !'or the Atlanta Falcons after so many years of' losing. It's a long time coming for mo, us, the organization and the whole city. Nobody at the beginning of' the season thought the Atlanta Falcons would be here in Super Bowl 33." 
But here thcv arc, 14 1/2 months removed f'rom a 1-7 record. And getting healthier for Sunday's game. 
Defensive end Lester Archambeau (ankle) and full­back-tight end Brian Kozlowski, both starters. went through a full practice Wednesday. If there are no complications, Beeves expects them to be listed as probable. 
"I thought we practiced good," Reeves said. "The tempo was good, the concen­tration was good, all the things you look for were good." 
It wasn't always that way for this beleaguered franchise, of course. But it's a measure of the Falcons· mettle that past demons have not cropped up in this special season. 

:am 

Come to the informational n1eeting .·~ Tuesday, February 2nd 
6:30 P•ffi• 

114 O'Shaughnessy 
Prof. Peri Arnold, Director 346 O'Shaughnessy Peri.E.Arnold. l@nd.edu 
-....

This program is open to students from ALL Colleges 

¦ NFL 
(eunningham na01ed .,p!1iJ.yer of the year 
Assodaie<l f'ress 
,., .. ••·•···••..··...... MIAMI 
·,-Two }'!;)4)J'$ .ago, Haudall , Cunningham was laying til•~ during a one-year hiatos from football. No one wanted him, and it looked like he would never play in the NFL again. On Wednesday. he was stunned to hear his name called as th6 league's player of the year. "l felt like Miss America sit­ting there," said the Minn,isota quarterback, who helped the Vikings set an NFL scoring record and come within one victory of the Super Bowl. "This is one of the greatest achievements I've ever received. I was losing my breath just sitting there." Cutu:iingham was the winnerin the closestvoting in tho 10­year history of the award. He received 37 percent of the vote from a nationwide panel of 200 writers and broadcasters, 2 percent more than Denver running back Terrell Davis. Earlier this month, Davis was named the league's most valuable. player by Tho Associated Press. Other finalists for the NFL award were Indianapolis run· ning back Marshall Faulk and quarterbacks Doug .Flutie of Buffalo, Steve Young of San Francisco and Vinny Tostaverdc of the New York 
Jets. 
Cunningham, pressed into service after Brad Johnson broke his leg in Week 2, wound up NFL's top-rated passer with a 106.0 rating that ranks No. 8 in history. The 13­year veteran throw for 3,704 yards and 34 touchdowns as the Vikings became only the third team to win 15 regular season games. 
The Vikings finished the sea­son with 556 points, breaking tho record of 541 set by the 1983 Washington lledskins. However, Minnesota's march to the Super Bowl Wll.'> stopped by Atlanta in the NFC title game. 
"It's not an empty feeling,~ Cunningham said. "The feeling I have is it wasn't our time. The year 2000 looks better for us. It's a year of completion. I think we'll do better next year." 
Cunningham spent 11 sea­sons in Philadelphia, where he set an NFL career record for most rushing yards hy a quar­terback. But his individual efforts weren't enough to lift tho Eagles past ttrn lirst round of the playoffs. 
He sat out the 1996 season, returning home to Las Vegas to go into tile construction. The Vikings signed him before the 1997 season. and he was content to be the backup until Johnson's injury. 


... 
-

~~----------------~----------------------------------------------­
page 22 Tbe Obst:rver • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, January 28, 1999 
student union 
HAPPENINGS 
STUDENT UNION BOARD . 
-
Movie: Pleasantville 1/28. Thursday. 1/29. Friday. 1/30. Saturday. 
Acoustlcafe. 1/29. Thursday. 
International Film Festival. 
The Thief. 2/1. Monday. 
The Eel. 2/2. Tuesday. 
Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown. 2/3. Wednesday. 

Cushing Auditorium.  1030PM.  Tickets: $2.  
Cushing Auditorium.  0800PM & 1030PM.  
Cushing Auditorium.  0800PM & 1030PM.  
LaFortune Huddle.  D900PM-1200AM.  
Cushing Auditorium.  0800PM.  lickets: $3 LaFortune Ticket Office.  
Cushing Auditorium.  0800PM.  Tickets: $3 Lafortune Ticket Office.  
Cushing Auditorium.  0S00PM.  Tickets: $3 Lafortune Ticket Office.  

HPC {HALL PRESIDENTS' COUNCIL) 
Keenan Revue 1/28. Thursday. O'Laughlin Auditorium(SMC). 0700PM. 1/29. Friday. O'Laughlln Audltorium(SMC). 0700PM. 1/30. Saturday. O'Laughlin Auditorium(SMC). 0700PM. 
CCC (CLUB COORDINATION COUNCIL) 
NAACP Play:Buffalo Soldiers. 2/1. Monday. 2/2. Tuesday. 
CLASS OF 1999 
Class Mass. 1/30. Saturday. 
CLASS OF 2001 

Kareoke at Reckers 1 /30. Saturday. Reckers. 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT 

Saferlde. 631-9888. 1/28. Thursday. Where the Action Is. 1/29. Friday. Where the Action Is. 1/30. Saturday. Where the Action Is. 
MISCELLANEOUS/CAMPUS-WIDE 
SARG: Say Hello Drive: campus-wide. 1/28. Thursday. 1/29. Friday. 

Kellogg Institute Current Affairs Round Table: "Holding the Heads of State Accountablen 1/28. Thursday. C-103 HCIS. 
SARG: Volleyball vs. Board Alumni (students welcome). 1/29. Friday. RSRC. Music Dept.:Georgine Reslck, Soprano. 1/31. Sunday. Annenberg Auditorium. 
SARG: Eck Center Open House. 2/2. Tuesday. Eck Center. 2/3. Wednesday. Eck Center. 
Kellogg Institute Seminar: "The Good Friday Agreement: A Constitutional Pied Piper for a United Ireland?" 
2/2. Tuesday. C-103 HCIS. 


A 
01 00AM-0400AM. 
1OOOPM-0200AM. 1000PM-0300AM. 1000PM-0300AM. 
0415PM. 
0900PM. 
0200PM. tickets $3-$1 o. 
0700PM-OBOOPM. 0700PM-0800PM. 
1230PM. 

Can be used with invisible tape as tattoos. [Submissions for next week's tattoos can be sent via campus mail to SUB, 201 LaFortune] 
34567890123456789012345678901234567890123456789012345678901234567 

page 23 The Observer• SPORTS Thursday, January, 28, 1999 
¦ NBA 
Vancouver signs Abdur-Rahim to six-year contract 
. 

Ass..cia1cd Press 
VICTOIW\, British Columbia The Vancouver Grizzlies, wlw'vc suffernri through three dismal seasons in their NBA existence, solidified their future by signing Shareef Abdur-Hahim to a $71 million, six-year contract exten­sion on Wednesday. 
"It 11xemplilies the franchise has some stability from a player standpoint," said Stu Jackson, Grizzlies president and GM. "It sends a message to the rest of the league that this is a destina­tion point for very good players. And thirdly, it ensures that we've added to our foundation which wP-'re going to build around." 

"For this organization to move forward, it was important to have Shareef as the central fig­ure of our team for at least the 
next seven years." 
Abdur-Rahim, who led the Grizzlies in scoring in his first two seasons, was in the final year of his rookie contract and would have been eligible for free 

CLASS OF 1999... 
THANK YOU 
FOR MAKING 
COLLEGE 
NIGHT 
THURSDAYS 
SOUTH BEND'S 
BIGGEST
PARTY 
SEE YOU TONIGHT! 
99c SPECIALS 99c COVER 
with Student LD.

_.,-.-. 
< /.. 

222 S. MICHIGAN 
SOUTH BEND • (219) 234-5200 
wwwaceplaces.com/heartland 
agency at tho end of this sciason. His contract extension is the maximum allowable under the newly-negotiated collective bar­gaining agrnmnnnt. 
"I just feel blessed and hon­

~ -------,--WHY NOT.. II ored," said Abdur-Hahirn, who cclebrnlOd his 22nd birlhday lasL month.Hometown: Little Falls, MN 
The biggest issue in Abdur• Hahim's mind was not money

Major: Quantitative Methods/ 
but gntting assurancns that the t11am was r,ommitted to becomeComputer Science a contender. I le said hr, got that from Jackson and own•~r John
1 Favorite junk food: Caramel Corn Mccaw. 
"I wouldn't have sigimd this if I 
I 

didn't feel like we were movingI "Holy Cross turned me into Q Zahmbie. !!1 the right direcUon,".lrn said. 
Honestly, I really do !col good 

I ANSWER THE CALL today I" about o~r team_ an~ tlrn ?irt~ction 
• that we re movmg m. I feel good about the situation."

I --Fr. hm Lies, C.S.C., ND '87, Rector, Zahm Hall 
Abdur•llahim wasn't con­I cerned that he lost a chance to cash in on his success, consider­
For more information on 
ing the limits placed on salaries in the new collm:tive bargaining

Holy Cross' one-year
I 
agreement. "llonestly, you have to look at
Candidate Program
I it and say, 'This is more money contact: than my parents every made.' II really don't pay much too much attention to that. I'm happy to be
Fr. Jim King, C.S.C. or
I back playing baskntball. I'm Fr. Bill Wack, C.S.C. pleased and I'm blessed," he
I 
said.

1-6385 Abdur-Hahim said today's NBA players am indebted tovocation. l@nd.edu those who never had the oppor­tunity to make this much money. 
• "When you think about it, you have to thank the hruys that came before me, the Dr. J's and the guys before him. All ol' those 
~ ---~ FOLLOW HIM .... ? 
guys were worth money like this, but the league wasn't in a situa­tion like this. They really paved 

check out THEPLUNGEatwww.nd.ec:lu/~vccation the way for guys like mysell'," he 
Attention: all students running for the offices of 
Student Government President and Vice-President: 
Signed Petitions are due by: 
5:00 P.M. 

Todayl January 28, 1999 In the Student Government Office (Second Floor, Lafortune) 
Any Questions? Please contact Nicole Borda 

(Judicial Council V.P.) at 631-4556 
Brought to you by:*/)u.dl.cla.l eOUllcil 
said. 
GET IN THE 
THICK 
OF IT. 


.. 
• 
Convenienclv located in the heart of downtown South Bend, Old Chicago Steakhouse has the hottest grill in town, serving up a NEW MENL: of juicy USDA prime filer mignons, r-bones, and ribeyes (as well chicken, burgers and salads, too). 
See why steaks are our consuming passion. 

222 S. MICHIGAN• SOUTH BEND ... (219) 234-5200 

Thursday, January 28, 1999 
The Observer• SPORTS page 24 
¦ WOMEN'S 8ASl<ETBALL 
Foul trouble keeps Belles from victory over Scots 


1999
... 
Earn $$$ for Spring Break 
February 19, 20, 21 
Sign ups are: 
Sat 1/30 9:30 a.m. -5:00 p.m. Mon 2/111:00 a.m. -5:00 p.m. 
Catering Employment Office • 108 Lafortune . .... 631-5449 or 631-8792 
"""'--.;;;:# _'Jl ,.. ,. , , ,,,., .,~,.. . . . . ·r•1 • . .,. ..••..•• ·····----·······---,.-••.. W•·~········.. ··:;::~:::::...,,. 
lf~.':;J_JY ;/·'*,l'.,-#fl,~~~~:.x.•~~~.t..l>W1¥o,"-4;''~)il,.: .,. 
I I 
~--.,.--:' 


But in tho end, Bradbury was not a major factor in this game. [nstead, Alma's Shannon Cross slepped up and scored a team-high 30 points. Between this and the unforgiving refereeing, the Belles' defensive strategy was nearly impossible to run. 
The Belles played tough in the first half, scoring first and rarely falling behind. Freshman forward Kelly Jones led Saint Mary's with the first shot and went on to be leading scorer for the Belles, collecting 14 points. 
Saint Mary's still managed to have an aggressive defense and solid rebounding throughout the first half. The game remained tied fvr near­ly all of the first half, until Alma went on a scoring drive during which Saint Mary's was called for a number of personal fouls . .!\Ima went into half-time leading 35-26. 
Throughout the game, the Belles' inability to guard the key and stop the Scots from penetrating was a major fac­tor. but it became more apparent in the second half. Alma went on a scnring drive in the second ha.If that con­sisted almost completely of lay-ups and close jump shots, gaining a 57-39 lead. 
Alma continued to dominate offensively and take advan­tage of the tough refereeing, leading 70-50 at one point late in the half. Saint Mary's came back to within nine points with 2:30 left to play, but, once again, the personal fouls stopped the comeback. Alma went on to win it, 92­
• 71. The Belles play at Olivet on Wednesday and hope to turn their season around against a team with which they are very evenly matched. 

Use Observer Classifieds 

Men's Basketball vs. Providence Saturday, January 30th @lZpm 
Come Supportyour 
Irish!!! 


1'12'1_ VARSITY SHOP 'l'I'  HOCKEY  aa a. VARSITY SHOP 'l'I'  
vs.  
MICHIGAN  

Saturday, January 30th at 7pm 
First 1500 ~"15 1.--ecei.ve a FREE N.O. '11-shil---t!!! 

Jones scores I 4 points to pace squad in loss 
By MOLLY McVOY Spores Writer 
Saint Mary's came up short in what was an absolute cir­cus of a game versus the Scots of Alma College, losing 92-71. 
The score was by far not tho most telling statistic of tho game. Most of the action was not on the court. but on the foul line -referees called 54 
... 
fouls in the course of the game, averaging more than a foul per minute during this contest. 
Between both teams, the players shot 76 free throws, accounting f'or 51 of the 163 total points. Every player Saint Mary's put in the game had at least one personal foul, and all but one of the Alma players could say the same. Two of Alma's players fouled out as did one of the Relles. 
Before the game, coach Dave Hoedt>r's main concern was the league-leading scor­er, Ellen Bradbury, and he aimed his defensive strategy at hor. 



The Observer/Jeff Hsu 

page 25 
Irish 
continued from page 28 
warrl J1111al.han Bnerbohm, the Eaglus seized the opportunity to protnct tlwir homo courL. 
A thr1!e-point1•r by Martin lngnlshy cut tho lead back to IO points, hut with two min­u lns (pf't. Notrn Damc was 
ass o 
1999 
Mass at the 
Basilica 
5:00pm Saturday~ January 30~ 1999 
~­
\ 
_..... -,,
-;::: . 

Special Senior blessing ""'\ given by Monk Malloy 
Share one ofthe last religious celebrations with yourfriends and classmates 
* reserved seating for Seniors 
forced to foul. Boston C()Jlege hit its kuy free throws and Notre Dame could not cul inLo tlrn load. 
It was another big loss for the bctskHtball team. Boston College see>.med to surprise Notre 
Dame with its performance, · while Notre Dame refused to flash Urn team effort 111' Urn last fow gamos. 

The Observer• SPORTS 
Murphy recorded a double• double with 17 points and 11 rebounds, a gutsy performance on a severely sprained ankle. For whatever reason, the rest of the Le.am just couldn't pick up its performance. 
Notre Dame will get an opportunity to do its traditional bounce-back performance against Providence at the JACC Saturday at noon. 

Sophomore Martin lnglesby and the Irish will get a chance to rebound on Saturday when they face off against Providence. Feb. 28 

The Observer/Jolt Hsu 

Freshman Harold Swanagan scored eight points with two rebounds in Notre Dame's 78-67 loss to boston College. · 
MEN'S BAS.KETBAlL UPCOMING SCHEDULE 
Jan. 30 
Feb. 6 Feb. 10 Feb. 14 Feb. 17 Feb. 21 Feb. 24 
Providence at Seton Hall Georgetown at West Virginia at Syracuse West Virginia at St. John's Boston College 
... 
.... 

-· 


Thursday, January 28, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 26 


-
Rodeo 
continued from page 28 

which is not rated highly," Driscoll said. "you can be put at a real disadvantage." 
Saddle bronco riders have a saddle to cling to. while bare­back riders have only a suit­case-like handle to grip. 
Bull riding is the rodeo­sport wlrnre the most profes­sion al prize money is avail­able and is also the most dan­gerous or all rodeo events. Bull riders must combine skill and balanr,e to hang on to a -2000-pound bucking bull for eight seconds using only a bull rope. 
The danger begins when a rider is tossed from an angry bull and the animal turns to attack the rid{>.r. 
ll is now that tho rider's "guardian angels" -the rodeo clowns -swoop in to distract the bull and rescue the rider from a ton of angry beef. 
While rough stock events are based partially on luck. timed events are all judged by the impartial and unbiased ~lock. Calf roping, team rop­mg and steer wrestling con­stitute the timed events. 
In calf roping, a rider chas­es a calf down on a horse and ropes its head. As soon as the rope catches the calf, the horse is trained to stop and the rider leaps from the horse. 
The rider must then tie three legs of the calf before throwing his hands into the air to signify his completion, thus stopping the clock. 
Team roping is very similar to calf roping. In team roping, two men ride horses parallel to a calf. The first rider, the header, ropes the head of the 
Steer wrestling also involves two riders. The first rider, the hazer, rides along next to steer and makes sure that the steer runs straight. 
The second rider, or wrestler, attempts to leap onto the· back the back of the steer and grab its horns. Once the wrestler has grabbed the horns, he tries to pull the steer to the ground. When thrnti of the steer's legs are off the ground, the clock stops and the event is over·. 
Women may participate in any men's event but they also have events specifically for females. 
Women's events include barrel raring, goat tying, 
'EVERYONE WHO WANTS 
TO TRY SHOULD COME 
OUT. ALL WILL BE PROYID­
ED WITH A CHANCE.' 
NEAL DRISCOLL 
RODEO Cws OFFICER 
~reak-away roping, team rop­111 g and pole bending. Women's events are all Judged on time. 
In barrel racing, a ride must guide her horse around barrels in a pre-determined pattern for time. 
Pole bending is very similar to barrel racing in that a rider must guide her horse through a set of poles as quickly as possible. 
.B~eak-away ropi,ng is very 
~1m1lar to the men s calf rop­
rn g event. The rider must 
rope a calf around the head 
and then get her horse to 
stop. 
Rather than having to jump 
off the horse and tie the legs 
of the calf, the rope is 

11:ttached to a string which is tied to the saddle. After being roped, the calf will continue to run away, eventually caus­ing the string to break and the clock to stop. · 
Goat tying is similar to the tying aspect of men's calf roping. A competitor must tie thrne legs of the goat before throwing her hands into the' air, slopping the clock. 
To prepare for the Michigan State Rodeo, the club has been practicing at the D-Bar­S Arena in Elkhart. 
The arena is an indoor arena so the team is able to practice regardless of the weather. On Monday and Wednesday nights, the arena holds barrel racing practice. 
'I_' ues day and· Thu rs cl ay brings team and calf roping. Friday nights belong to the bucking bulls and br\rncos. 
_The te_am will also get expe­nence 111 rodeos before the Michigan State Rodeo as the arena holds a rodeo every two or three weeks. Some of the team members plan to participate in the next rodeo which will be held Saturday night. 
Experience is not necessary for one to join the rodeo club. About half of the club mem­~ers have n~ver participated m a rodeo before. 
While most have some horse experience, the club encourages all to come out regardless of whether they have ever ridden before. 
"Everyone who wants to try should come out," Driscoll said. "All will be provided with a chance." 
Anyone interested in joining the Rodeo Club shoui'd con­tact one of the officers, Rory Fanning {x4221). Claire Peterson {x3850), Mike Driscoll (289-2924) and Neal Driscoll {x1568). 
Hockey 
continued from page 28 
section -go berserk for a change! In fac.t, let's start a new trend -let's do this every home game! 
Let me suggest some activi­ties for those or you who mav b_e new to the sport of heckl(ng, smce I was one of the lead hflcklers for the last three years. One: Tell Michigan's goaltender what you think of him. In all likelihood. their starting goaltender will be Josh Blackburn. a freshman. Remind him of the fact that !'\orthern Michigan tordrnd him for four goals on 10 shots earlier this season on home ice. 
Two: Make fun of tlwir team captain. Bubba Berenzweig. With a name like that, if you can't think of anything to make fun of him about. then I simply cannot help you. 
Three: Tell the Michigan coach, who will be on the opposite side of the ice from you, what you think or him. Since he will be standing on the other side of the rink, you will quickly learn how a loud voice will come in handy. Just so you know, his name is Red Berenson. If you follow the team and are still steaming over Ben Simon's one-game su_spension two weeks ago, you might want to remind Coach Berenson about that event. 
Four: If you just hate Michigan in general like I do, that should provide plenty of heckling material. 
In case you haven't noticed, the Notre Dame hockey team has been ranked in the top 10 every week for about three straight months.now. Also, for the first time in years, a couple of Irish players' names are 

being tossed around in the dis­
cussion of the I!obey Baker Award, the Heisman Trophv of 
college hockey. Those two • 
names are Brian Urick, a 
~fln_ior and team captain, and JUrnor Ben Simon, the team's 
current scoring leader. 

To call th'is the biggest home hockey game of my four ynars would be an understatement. Actually, for me the game ri:iean~ even more. since my sister 1s currently a student at Michigan. Michigan comes in ranked No. 5 in the nation, and tbn~ are also the defonding nallonal champions. A win on Saturday would be Notre Dame's first home win over Michigan since Fnbruary or 191).5. A win on Satmday would mean that. Notre Dame's hock­ey program has finally come of age. 
Th? game is already sold out, that 1s, except for the student tickets, which arc given out free with a student ID an hour b1if'ore game time. The game, as are all Notre Dame hnckey games (home and away). will he broadcast live on the radio on 103.1 FM. The game will also be broadcast on local tele­vision, channel 46. for those not fortunate enough to get a ticket. 
Once again, if you plan to come to the game and sit on your hands, please be generous and let a lunatic have your ticket instead. Bring out the air horns, wave some towels, get loud and enjoy two of the best teams in college hockey bat­tling it out on the ice, playing the greatest sport in the world. 
The views expressed in this column are lhose of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
,.. 
calf. After the head is roped, the second man, the heelher, rides in behind and tries to rope the hind feet. 
BOOK SEARCH 
• 
Used, rare and out-of-print books 

• 
Initial cost of $Z.OO 

• 
Nationafly -circulated ad 

• 
Success rate of 50% 


0
i;l1
• Time Required: 2 months ~I 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 102 7 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 


Second Annual 
!homas Aquinas Symposium 
Students are especially welcome 
Saturdqy, January 30, 1999 
3:00 p.m. -Le Mans Hall Saint Mary's College 
Notre Dame, Indiana 
Lecture: 
''Thomas Aquinas: Theologian of the Uncanny God'' 
Fath.er Robert Barron 
4:30 pm --Symposium Eucharist, Regina Chapel 
Presider & Homilist -Father Robert Barron 
-f!t­
Joyce  Religious  
McMahon Hank  SAINT  Studies Department  
Aquinas Chair in Catholic Theology  MARY'S COLLEGE  Saint Mary's College Information: 219-284-4636  
NOTRE DAME, IN  

• 
page 27 
The Observer • TODAY Thursday, January 28, 1999 
LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD OF ND 
DAN SULLIVAN 
YOUR HOROSCOPE 
EUGENIA LAST 

FOXTROT 
C 1999 Slit Amtlld/0111 by UnJYefYI PftH Synclw:.11t 
HEE HEE WHAT'S So HEE... FUNNY;, I 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Susan Sontag, Alan Alda, Elijah Wood, John Caliri, Barbi Benton, Susan Howard, Mikhail Baryshnikov 
Happy Birthday: Don't hold your­


fHAf J3EANIE IN PfJBLIC. ! 
self back. This is your year to push ahead. You have the discipline, stami­na and know-how to turn your ideas into reality. Don't just think about what you'd like to do. Get moving. _If you take the initiative MW, xou ~111 find yourself moving m a direction that will bring you admiration, loyal­ty and support. Your numbers: 3, 11, 18, 22, 36, 43 
ARIES (MARCH 21-APRIL 19): 
Delays due to transportation difficul­ties may put a dent in your wallet. You will have to move fast if you intend to meet your deadlines. Don't

BILL AMEND 
let delays set you off."Jusl do the best you can. 0000 TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Con­
So I COULD PuT "lliEM 

WHoA! (OOL! WoRM GUTS.1 
centrate on work-related matters. You
_;
tN J'ACioN'S MITTENS 
should look into ways of pampering
ANt> GIVE THE LITTLE 
yourself. A little tender loving care is
Of COURSE, I 
in order. Social events will be worth

DWEEB A HEART ATTA(!(_ 
ALWA'!S FoRGET 

HoME W1TH ME  
tN A PLASTIC  WHAT  
8A<:.G1E.  FoR?  
\  

attending. Romance is in the air. 000
I 
lliAT HE'S Ndl' A 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You
LITTLE ,DWEEB. 
may drive your mate crazy with your 
"0j 
emotional ups and downs. Put a con­

~ 0.:-i---,,. 
l.1. 
certed effort into telling the truth when it comes to emotional matters and motives. Try to control your anxiety. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You are in need of a hug and a little understanding. Don't be vulnerable to the point that you pick the wrong partner. Be careful not to get involved in one-sided infatuations. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug, 22): Put your 
WE WERE DtSSECTtNG EARntWoRMS IN 810LOGY CLASS ToDAY, So I TooK A BUNCH of "lliE INNARDS 

DILBERT 
best foot forward at work. Take care of all those small but necessary 

SCOTT ADAMS
~============::::-ier::============~g 

details, or be sure that someone else 
~ BUT IT WILL All BEI 5TA-Y£J) AWAKE. FOR 

I'LL PUT IT 1.N Tl-\t 
Birthday Baby: You arc inquisitive about everylhing. You will find yourse_lf
j FOR NOTHING 'IF

TWO DA'<$ STRA.lG\-\i 
f'I\IODlE OF THI.5 
in unusual silUations that will lead to fascinating results. Follow your basic 
instincts, and you will never be disappointed. You need to experience all sorts
~ '<OU DON'T SEND IT

TO FINIS\-\ T\-1!$ 
~iTACK 50 I WONT 
of things in order to feel satisfied. 
~ TODA.'<. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice.com,
0 
fORGET IT. 
eugenialaslcom, ,1stromate.com.) CJ 1999 Urnv~I rress Syndic•tc 
:;i 
E 
8 
¦ 't)FINTEREST
t 
.8 
The Experiment'al Learning Council -The
i:i 
Experimental Learning Council invites you to a hospi• tality lun<!heon today from 11:.30 •1 p.m. nt the Center for Social Concerns. A meal of spaghetti, bread and salad will be served. The cost is $3 per person.

CROSSWORD ACROSS 32 Slam-dance, 56 Compass dir. 90's-style 57 Football stat 
Fund for Public Interest Research -The rncruiter 

1 "-..-first you 
from the fund for Public Interest research will host an
33 Put together, in 61 Betrayed 
away 
information _session at 5 p.m. at the Center for Social
63 Prefix with 5 Sgt. of 50's TV 

35--Altaic angular 
Concerns. This is a a community organizing group that

11 Cousin of languages 64 Dilettantes, 
deals with environmental and other issL-Ies in many

"Phooey!" 
37 Nashville inst. maybe 
cities aci:oss the nation. 

14 Emergency CB 38 Winter feature 66 Adaptable truck, channel with a hint to for short 
Good Shepherd Volunteers -Cara Happell from

1 s Some former today's puzzle 67 Encroach ondictators, e.g. 
Good Shepherd Volunteers will host an information
theme 68 Superiority1a Skating 

session on year-long domestic programs on the East
41 Bird of legend 69 Surprisedchampion Midon 

Coast at 7 :30 p.m. tonight at the Center for Social
43 Linguist comments17 Some Broadway 

Concerns. Good Shepherd Volunteers also have a now

Chomsky 70 1966 Fonda· 19 Hoedown 44 Cockney's Robards movie perlormances 
program for women who speak Spanish to live and vol­unteer in Paraguay. There will also be an information
abode 11 Guatemalaparticipant 

session on this program at 6:30 p.m. 
natives20 Braided 45 Word on a coin 

21 With indifference 47 Fae. member 
Student Hesidences -Housing contracts for 1999­

23 Crackerjack 49 Kitchen g1zmo 
DOWN 
2000 have been distributed to all freshmen, sopho­

24 Chi paper, with 53 When repeated, 
mores, and juniors. If you did not receive a contract,

"The" a vitamin B 1 Fashion line 
please report to the Otnce of Student llcsidences at 527

26 Jeer deficiency 2 Ring bearer? 
27 Actress Oberon 54 Alliance since 3 Horn 
Grace Hall before the deadline of' February 10 to haw 

29 Chunk or clunk 1949 4 Puccini melody, 
a duplicate contract typed. Everyone who rocnives a 
e.g. 
contract must return it regardless of whether you will 
S 1996A.L 
live on campus, off-campus or study overseas. To ho 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE Rookie of the 
eligible for room picks in April your contract musi bo


Puzzle by David J. Kahn
Year 6 Like rust 30 Onetime 7 German article Esposito 8 Kind of bag 
teammate 9 It might wind up 
31 Pedestal part on a boat 34 Word with 10 "That you!" anchor or dead 11 Yeti-like 36 Harvard tradition 
creatures 38 Hightails it 12 Puzzled 39 Bluejacket 13 Pre-Easter time 40 Voice vote 18 Followed, asan 41 1967 Rolling 
impulse Stones hit -~~~-1"-1"--4--i 22 Man with a law -'-4--l-~~-l 25 Post-weekend letdown 
~~.:....i.;;.;..i..;:..., 28 ---di-dah 
Monday: The Thief. Tuesday: The Eel. 

Wednesday: Woman on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown. All shows begin at 8p.m. 
~www.n,l..,du/-wh 
is doing it for you. Visit an old friend who hasn't been doing too well. 0000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't get involved in extravaganzas or large groups. You are too giving and will surely be taken advantage of. Sudden changes regarding your friends will leave you feeling sad. 00 
LIBRA (Sepl 23-0ct. 22): You can acquire knowledge through travel or reading material that elaborates on your interests. Your quick wit will win you points with the boss and enhance your reputation. 00000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Take a good look at your personal papers. You may want to make changes or updates. You should be able to give someone close to you good advice about financial needs. 000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22·Dec. 21): Make decisions about your profes­sional direction. Take the time to sort out your personal siruation. Joint ven­tures may have put a damper on a close relationship. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22•Jan. 19): Your partner will be sure to overreact if you question whereabouts or spending habits. Keep promises that you already made but refrain from making any more. 000 
AQUARIUS Qan. 20-Feb. 18): You will not handle your money well. Put it in a safe place. Don't be talked into buying things you don't need. Lend­ing to friends will result in a loss of cash and ill feelings. 000Q0 
PISCES (Feb. 19-M,1rch 20): Diffi­culties with a friend or lover will result in estrangement. Try to put yourself in your friend's shoes. You should back away from the situation and let him or her calm down. 00 
returned, in person, by 5 p.m. on February 10. 

50 California 58 Where Myanmar locale IS whose 
59 "Treasure Island" 
name isan character 
anagram of 60 It's a sin 
Please

52-Down 
62 Main part of a 52 Biblical locale 
51 Oomph 
word 55 Heard in court 65 Hand, slangily 
Recycle The 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95t per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the 
Observer

best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
February 1st,2nd,3rd. Free Admission. Cushing Auditorimn. 


.... 
-

.... 

¦ Jack Nicklaus ro miss 
¦ Saint Mary's·basket­

.... 
Masters for the first 
ball lost to Alma 

time in over 40 years. 
College Wednesday night, 92-71.

PORTS 
p.18 
p.24 
O 
THE 

Thursday, January 28, 1999 BSERVER 


¦ MEt.fS 8ASKHBAll 
Murphy's return not enough as Eagles top Irish 
John-MacLeod clearly didn'tFreshman scores have the desired effect. 
Boston College continued to17 points in beat Notre Dama to every loose ball, grabbing every long
conference loss rebound and eventually build­ing an 11-point lead with 12 minutes left in the game.
By Al.AN WASIELEWSKI 
In the games Mnrphy missed, Spom Writer 
Notre Dame had four people on the roster in double-digitWins on the road ~ especial­

scoring, but none of those ly against Big East teams ­
numbers repeated againsthave come few and far 
Boston College and the team between for the Notre Dame 
lost the edge it developedmen's basketball team. 
when forced to play without 
There have been hints this 

Murphy. season of' breaking out of the 
Murphy refused to let the road trip slump, like when the 
game turn into a blow-out. He 

Irish handed Miami (Fla.) its and fellow freshman David first loss of the season in the 
Graves made some big buckets Miami Arena. Rut at Boston and cut the Eagles' lead to six 
College Wednesday night, the 
with nine minutes left. No one Irish could not shake tlrn 
will he abl.e to question

slump, dropping the game 78­
Murphy's heart and desire to 67 and banding the Eagles 
win at Notre Dame: His ankle their first Big East win of the 
was still bothering him, but he 

season. 
came through with an effort Notre Dame started off the 

that leaves hope for the future game in a funk. The Irish 
of the basketball program.missed 10 of their first 16 
Boston College would not let shots and allowed Boston 
its first Big East win of the 

College to run up an eight­
year slip away. The team point lead at half-time. 

•geared up the running game

Murphy, expected to play limit­
and stretched the lead back to ed time, was forced into 37 
13. Led by Oklahoma transfer

-
minutes because of Notre 
Jay Cotton and sophomore for-
The Observer/Jeff Hsu 

Dame's scoring woes. 
Senior center Phil Hickey was just one of many Irish players who struggled offensively Wednesday night, 
Any half-time talk by coach 

. see IRISH/page 25 scoring only two points with five rebounds. 
¦ CLUB SPORTS

¦ IR!SH l~JSIGHT 
Rodeo rides to club status 
By MIKE CONNOLLY age has been paid for, an a late start this season, its Spom Writer individual may participate in members are not all expected any of the rodeos organized to pay for the insurance for a 
A mere 17-minute drive by the NIRA. short season. from campus at the D-Bar-S The NIRA is further divided The club hopes that some of arena in Elkhart, a Notre into many regions, the major­its members will participate Dame student can experience ity of which are in the west­in the Michigan State Rodeo the thrills and learn the skills ern U.S., where rodeo is most which will be held FBb. 19­involved in being in a rodeo. popular. Notre Dame is a 21; right now about five 
For the leaders of Notre part of the Ozark region, members are planning to Dame's newest sporting which encompasses most of attend. group, the Rod,eo Club, the the eastern states. Rodeo events are divided point is to give every student Each region is allowed lo between men's events and the opportunity to try his or ladies' events. her hand at the activity. Men's events are further 
"Our goal is to allow people divided into two categories: to get into something new," 'OUR GOAL IS TO rough stock and calf roping. club officer Neal Driscoll ALLOW PEOPLE TO Rough stock events combine said. skill and luck, and include
GET INTO SOMETHING NEW.'

The 17-rnernber club hull riding, bare-back bronco received approval from riding and saddle bronco rid­RecSports to become a club ing -all among the most
NEAL DRISCOLL 

sport just before Christmas dangerous of all rodeo 
RODEO CLUB OFF7CER

break, but the process began sports. a full year earlier. In each event, a rider must 
Slill, approval from the try and stay on a bucking University is just the begin­host 10 rodeos each season. animal for at least eight sec­ning of the rodeo club's jour­The season runs from fall onds. The riders are scored ney toward participation in through spring, with the on a 100-point seal(~. Fifty · competitive rodeos. majori.ty of the rodeos falling points are based on Uw skill 
By TED BASSANI the most exciting game on the Competitive college rodeos in the spring. Depending on of the rider while the other Sports Writer planet. are organized by the National how well a rider does in the 50 points are based on the When the Michigan Intercollegiate Rodeo regional rodeos, he or she animal. 
Let me tell you of my biggest Wolverines strut into town Association .. As rodeo is a may be invited to the College Depending on thfl wildness pet peeves -hockey fans thal Saturday night, they will be dangerous sporl, to be National Finals Rodeo, held of the animal a rider draws, go to a garne only to sit on their ready to play in the same old allowed to participate in a in June or July. more or less points are auto­hands. silent Joyce Center. Let's do rodeo organized by the NIRA, The top collegiate teams matically awarded to the 
Where I come from, hockey something a little different this a school and an individual are the University of Texas rider. fans are loud, obnoxious peo­Saturday night in the student must both be insured by the and the University of' ''If you draw an animal ple who lake pride in losing NIHA. California. 
their collective voices watching see HOCKEY/page 26 Once full insurance cover-Because the club got off to 
see RODEO/page 26 



at Providence vs. IV ichigan 
. 
Saturday, 7 p.m. ~ Saturday, 7 p.m. Women'sTennis
SPORTS 
vs. Kansas State 
at Oklahoma Ciry, OK

··-ATA 
Men's Tennis 
Saturday, 2 p.m. 

vs. Providence 
vs. Texas 

Saturday, 7 p.m. 
Saturday, 2 p.m. 
GLANCE 








