
·pavback' Time 
Unrest in ~frica 


Monday 

¦ Critics review Mel Gibson's new action 
¦ Ethiopia and Eritrea continue to fight in the Horn 
flick "Payback." 
FEBRUARY 15,
of Africa war. 

Scene• 10-11 
World & Nation • 5 
1999 

THE 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXXII NO. 89 WWW. ND.EDU/-OBSERVER 

SMC aims to increase multicultural awareness 
By MEGHAN DONAHUE :-!1·w, Writer 
Haising n1ltural awart'IIPSS in tlw Sainl Mary's romrnuni• ty whilP Pnabling 111i1111rity g-ro11ps to /'P(•I HI hom,• on t'illll)HIS has provPd Lo lw a daunting rhallPng<'. 
11111 thP Collr•g1• has ,·m1tin­u,•d to sl.rivP toward lm•aking dow11 cultural llilrriPrs by t1li­li1.i 11g tlw 0ITirP · ol' Mullicultural Affairs and att,•mpting to inrrnas<' roursP olTPrings. 
"WI' try to build a SnJlSP or ro111m11nity among om ,-ighty Latinas and Int tltPm know IIH'V havP a homn l.Jasp whilP tlu:y art) away at t'.olkgn," said Maria Oro1wzu. dirPrt.or ol' tlt1• OITit'.P ol' M111lirult11ral Affairs at Saint Mary's. 
Minority studPnts, PS(H'cial­ly in smallN institutions such ,is Saint '\larv·s. arP PrH·our­agl'd l.o inll'~·arl with Parh otlH'r l11·c·a11s1• or llw cam­pus's small si1.P. 
"Many young womPn canw to Saint Mary's with th<! trust that lwrn llwy would be Wl'l­comn and not alo1w," said 0rop11za. 
/\ctivitins sponsornd by thn OJ'ficP of Multicultural Affairs s11Pk to bring togetlH'r minor­ity st11dPnls in an attcimpt to ilHTl'HSI' tlw S!H]S(' of COl11lllll· nity at tlw CollPge. 

.··~rN 
\...-: Monday Feature 

"\Vo conc:1rnlrat11 on com· munity servicn and campus l'unctions hncausl' these womun lminoritv students! l'Pl'l a r!'sponsibility to give back lwcausn they arc grate­f'u I to lw givPn this kind ol' opportunity that many ha vcn ·l II.H\l'n given[." said 
()ro1wza. Although thn 

Architecture students receive honors for designs 
Special 1u The Oli.,crver 

-~---------------­
St•nior h"irnlwrly Haspanli is "v1wy 1ix!'.itnd" ovnr IH'r winning a dPsign t'.olllpPlition s1~eking pro· posals l'or tlw Ill's[ IISI' ol' a set of "Byzantinn" columns do11at1•d lo Uw School of Architnclurci hv tlw Snit!• l'\1usm1111. · 
"fl" it PVN gets built. it'll bn a ll"antasticl honor 
for 1111•," said Haspan ti. wlio has had sin<·n last 
Nov1•mlH'r to cn•atP hn 
r winning d1•sign. 

Sl11• and Carlo Bla11rlwt-Hutl1. whoso design 
also won an award l'or nwritorious prniwntalion, 
will n•1·Piwi $ I 2[i and a ticket lo London to par· 
tiripal1• in tlw l'Xhihition and symposium on 
Mardi 12 and I:~ at I.Im 1ww lJnivnrsity ol' Notre 
1>:u1w London Cnntn• honoring 1h11 centnnnial ol' 
th11 University's 01T1•ring ol' a dngrnn in architnc­
tur11. 

"This was an nxciting ovnnt in tlw life ol' thn srl10ol," snid Carroll W1(stf'all, Frank MDntana l'rofossor and Chairman of' tho School of Affhitncturn. "Tlw nnt.rins wnrn thoughtful, lrnau­tiftrl, and vnry sPnsitivn to Urn sill'. Th,isn am thn works ol' rnalurl' profossionals who will mak1! a profound contribution to how w1• build." 
Haspanti's winning dnsign proposes using thn columns as llw main foaturns in a brick and sto1w shrine with a mosaic of' tlrn Madonna and Child slwltnr!'CI in an amliculn and SL .Joseph in a r11rpss on tlw back. 
"I wanted somnthing on campus that was rnc­ognizral.Jly lrrligiousl." said Baspanti. adding that tlrn design could give studrnls smnrthing to look at on an otlwrwisr "busy and hnclic school day." 
0f'f'icn of 
Multicultural Affairs is short­handed. students havn takrn the task of' organizing various programs into their own hands in ordnr to makn the programs successf'u I. 
Otlrnr id(rns Oropeza has for bringing togethnr minority and Caucasian sludnnts inrludn a multicultural awan\nnss campaign. 
"Ideally, a dilforent awaro­ness campaign will Im put up nvery month," said 0ropoza in rnf'nrnncn to thn plans of' Orn Multicultural Office. Tho Office wants to emphasize cultural divorsity through advnrt.ising with ads similar to the milk slogans in print and on t,~l,wision. 
"Wn want to do tlrn same thing [with adv11rtisi11gl, only our product is multicultural­ism," said 0ropnza. "Cultur11 is tlrn way wn do things, not a rare, women, or thn homn­lcss. 
"Awarenoss to th11 term 


The Observer/Manuela Hernanclez English professor Anne Loux teaches Chicana literature, one of the few multicultural course offerings at Saint Mary's. 
__... ....,,,.. _,__ ._II __
' • ..,...... --""'----=-... 
ifl";~wt·.,.•~o...tt'W!l1""-''"-.._ 
::._,._-·•-''-.._,,..,..,.•-t-lMI.,.._., 
,., ..._.. _._..,.,..

,__.. _,....~,--......... 
.._.,,...........~-..--•···-·.. 
......lf'~"N,-~~-.. -·""""' 
-..............,..... --""­
~.... ::t~n~=::o:...~~
~~-"-t 

see AWARENESS / page 4 


GATl!WAY TO 11lliNF.W 
ARCHITECTURt QUADRANGLE 
PhotoS courtesy of Iha School ol Architecture 

Raspanti's design [above, top] won her the top position in the contest. Blanchet-Ruth's contribution [above] also gained recognition. 
..-~----··....-·.,...
w>tfltl•,._l•'k 11'.'a..l/l:•nWhW 
,~... !-*'"'l-J<-~<"« 
.....,... y,,o
'"'-~._.., _,1-•i,,-­
......-. ' .... _____.. 
_,,,_,~......M,_ 


Students work towards Mock Trial fame 
By FINN PRESSLY 
News Writer 

Though most studnnLs hope to stay clnar ol' the courtl1ousn during their years al Notrn Damn, cloznns of' studm1ts flockncl to tlrn witness lwnch this w1H)kPnd for a clilfor­ent kind of trial. 
Thn University's Mock Trial association hostP.d a regional comp<'lition this Wt)ok1\1HI, drawing t11ams f'rom llw Univnrsity 111' Michigan, tlrn Univnrsity of Dayton and tlw Univ11rsity of Wisconsin. 
"You g11t a hypothetical casn, and this ynar it was a plarw crash," said junior MPlissa Miksch, co-prnsid11nt or tlw Mock Trial Association. "StudPnts play tlw rolPs of' both tlrn attornnys and tlw witrrnssns. W11'rn judgnd on how wnll wn 1wrform." 
Notrn ,Dame fiPldPd thnw Warns with six to eight participants c•ach. CornpPl.itors WPrn judgnd on courtroom dnnwannr. rnodn or conduct, and Lhe quality or q1wstions asked. 
Timms from Notrn Damn placPd sl'cond and l'ourth, according t.o Miksrh. who is optimistic about h1\r team's d1ancns of going to tlrn Gold Nationals tournanrnnt in April. which marks thn culmination of t.lw mock trial post-season. 
In tho past, Notrn Danw has sm1t. tnams to Gold Nationals, as wnl! as Silwr Nationals, which is a tournament for tmtms whose scorns do not plam tlrnm in contPntion for gold status. 
Though weekly practices begin in 0c:tobnr. most Mock Trial activitil's don't get undm­way until later in the ynar. 
"We usually practicn thr<m days a wenk," said Miksch. "But, we rnally don't start practicing intensnly until spring snmnstnr." 
Miksch also cornmnndcd the work of Ava Preacher. assistant doan ol' the College of' 
see TRIAL / page 4 

page 2 The Observer. INSIDE Monday, Fehruary 15, 1999 






utside the Dome 
Compil€d from U-Wire reports 
Students rally for continuation of single-sex fraternities 
M seeks F, no 
•

COflllllltfllent 
ll<'llo. My nam11 is T<'o. I'm hem to ask any 
of the ladies out them if you arn free on the 
Friday or the 2(ith of February. The reason 
that lam doing this is that tho night of Peb. 
2(i is when my dorm 
will bn having a "hall-C.R. "Teo" Teodoro 
,,id<'" dance. I undor-llluma,inns Editor 
stand that sonrn people 
may think that it is a bit early to ask two 
weeks in advance. but 1certainly do not want 
what had happ111wd the last time my dorm 
had such a social ewnL 
Last s<'m<'stcr. FishPr I (all. rnv dorm. had a 
da11r,e for which I trind to g1~t a ·date. I mwer 
would 1ixpcct mud1. just an enjoyable 
PVPning with a f'emalP f'riPnd to accompany 
!TI(! with all my ollirr dorm friends. HowevPr, 
I must have asked a littln late or i•as simply 
unlucky. I was unable to Jind a date• for that 
night. 
It was not as though I haven't tried. I asked 
almost all the girls I knew if they would like 
to be inYitcd. Many of them apprnciated tile 
sentiment but they Pithnr had othnr plans or 
their dorms also had planned dances on the 
same night. Yes, I did ask quite a number of 
girls at the time. I can't recall exactly how 
many girls I actually did ask to the dance: I 
had stopped counting aft('.r 10 rrjections. 
Well. I decided that I didn 'l want that to 
happen this time, so I started a little early. 
Up to the writing of this column. I have asked 
four times, but my invitation has been 
declined on all occasions. 
However, my last attempt holds a new 
unprecedented record: six rejections at one 
single time! How is this possible? Simple. At a 
dance practice today. I had asked the girls in 
the room if any of them were available on the 
26th of this month. Almost simultaneously, 
all six of them apologized and declined my 
offer. So right now, even though I have asked 
four times. I was rejected nine times. I guess 
I'll just keep on counting for now until I reach 
15 or 20. 
Now l bet that some people are going to be 
thinking that this is just a desperate attempt 
for a date by some unknown loser. On the 
contrary, I may not be campus-wide famous, 
but I have made for myself the notoriety as 
tho guy in the Fruity Muscle Pants and Dark 
Shades. That makes me a pretty well-known 
loser. 
As for boing desperate, that is far from the 
truth. I consider myself to be more pathetic 
than desperate. A desperate person would be 
trying to find a date as though his life 
depended on it; a pathetic person simply 
wouldn't be able to find a date even if his life 
depended on it. 
I know that this could just be a futile 
attempt but if I could reach only one person 
out there, then all of this public humiliation 
and psychological turmoil would be worth it. 
I am not asking much. I do not want to be 
daLPlr.ss this time. Even if you plan to ditch 
mn at the dance for one of my friends. I 
wouldn't bo overly troubled at all; that would 
simply be another problem that I'll try to 
solve at the next dance. If any parties are 
interested in my offer. pleasn contact me as 
soon as possible: 
C.H. "Teo" Teodoro 41 I Fisher llall Notre Dame, IN. 46556 (219) 634-3066 spiderteo@yahoo.com 
The uiews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofTJze Obserl'er. 

¦ TooAv'S STAFF  
News  Scene  
Christine Kraly  Michael Vanegas  
Finn Pressly  Graphics  
Josh Bourgeois  Scott Hardy  
Sports  Production  
K3ti Miller  Kathleen Lopez  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Rmrany Morehouse  Job Turner  
Wedn,esday~ 33 31 Thursday ~ 33 2 7 


l"h, Ob,,rver (USPS '>'.19 2-400ll) is puhli,hcd Monday rhrough foda.y 1.·xu.:pt dllrini; exam and vaca1ion fK:riod\, The Ob.~crvn is a member of the As~ciatcd Press. All reprod11ccion rights arc reserved. 

I-IA:-JOVEH, N.H. 
Eighty-thrno pP.rront of thP-stu­dnnts who responded to a survey conducted by The Durtmouth yester­day said they favor the continuation of the single-sex Greek system at the College. 
Ofthr 4,106 students pollAd by The Dartmouth via BlitzMail, 2,003 nr 49 percent -msponded to the sur­rny, and 1,(,60 of lhPrn said they sup­port the single-sex system. Fifteen pr,rcent o[' thn rnspondnnt.s said the single-snx system should not lw con­tinued, and two percent w11re unde­cided. 
Firty-f'ivc percent of the students who said tlrn single-sex system should br continued are not affiliated with a frakrnity or sorority. 
Junior lfotsv Beck, who is unal'fili­ated, said single-sex Greek houses should remain on campus. 
She said there are "plenty of places 
¦ STANFORD UN!VLRS!TY 
cent. of the respondent:; to th1: surv(iy wrre ·02s. TwPnty-four pPn'.Pnt wen' seniors, 20 percent wnre juniors and 25 percent were sophomores. 
Of the freshmen who rnsponded. 532 support.eel the continuation or tlrn single-sex system -32 p<!rcnnt or thr total number or students f'rom all classes who supported its continua­tion. 
.Jon Morgan '02 said slw doubts slrn would rush a sorority in the fall, but slw appreciates the "tradition" gP.n­era tPd by the Grnek systnm. 
"I foci likn thny·rn taking so111Pthing away thal they don't havo the right to tako away -no 111att<'r who tlwy'n, taking it away from," slw said. 
Louis Frcidhnim ·02 said ho is both­ered that "the opportunity Ito rush] might not bfl there, just lrnrausc I had a passing intnrest in it. 1 proba­bly would have ruslrnd, but I don't know if I would havn plcdgecl." 
Former professor claims racism  Diversity numbers top Big 12  
STANFORD, Calif.  COLUMBIA. Mo.  
Former Stanford Law School Professor Linda Mabry  With 278 black freshmen enrolled, MU's fall 1998 class  
spoke out Thursday about "the law school's racially hos­ has more African Americans than any other Big 12 school.  
tile environment" for the first time since her abrupt resig­ This is the second year in a row MU has beaten out all  
nation in December. "I left Stanford law school because it  other schools in the Big 12 confnrence with black freshman  
is an institution that engages in a pattern of practicing  enrollment. "We think it's important to have a campus that  
intense bias, which devalues, discourages and marginal­ reflects a variety of ethnicities," said Gary Smith, director  
izes people of color," Mabry said. Mabry is one of tho pro­ of admissions and registrar. "I hope that it's an indication  
fessors who decided to file com plaints with the Labor  of our commitment to cultural diversity." Som1) black stu"  
Department concerning the University's tenure practices.  dents see MU's rank as a positive asset to the campus com­ 
"These institutions have never been held accountable for  munity. "Whenever there are more African Americans  
their actions to the students and the public,tt Mabry said.  here, it's a good thing because there aren't very many of  
"They've hidden behind this veil of truth and scholarship,  us," sophomore LaFonda Cousin said. Junior Carlanda  
when their real actions are certainly not reflective of 'jus­ Watson said MU's minority-enrollment numbers refl()Ct on  
tice.' I issued these complaints with the hope that some­ African Americans as a whole, not just on MU. "Of' cour·sn  
one would hold them accountable, that the Labor  it's a good thing." she said, "but it's also good to know that  
Department will deem them responsible."  more African Americans are coming to school."  
¦ VILLANOVA !JNIVERSiTY  ¦ Norrrmt1EsTrnN UN!VEBsnv  
Parents receive letters regarding hazing  Former inmate speaks out  
VILLANOVA, Penn.  EVANSTON. Ill.  
With the start of the pledge season, tho administration  Former d11ath row inmate Anthony Port11r spoke out  
has begun its regular process of informing pledges of the  against the death penalty Thursday in his sncond public  
rules against hazing and educating fraternity members of  appearance since bdng released from prison one WPek ago.  
the DOs and DON'Ts of rush. This year the administration  More than 200 people crowded into Chicago's Ikartland  
also decided to include parents in the education process by  Cafe to hear Porter and four family mnmbers at the !)Vent.  
sending letters Lo the parents of all male freshmen, inform­ which was sponsored by Campaign to End the Death  
ing them that three fraternities, Sigma Phi Epsilon, Delta  Penalty. The speakers encouraged Illinois politicians to put a  
Kappa Epsilon and Pi Kappa Alpha, are not recognized as  one-year moratorium on capital punishmm1t in response to  
chapters because of their poor standing with the University.  the 10 Illinois men who have been frond from Dnath How.  
Sig Ep was suspended from the fraternity last year, Pike  Porter, 44, lrncamo Nu. 10 last week af'tnr a Umm of' six  
lost its recognition two years ago and Deke has not been  Northwestern students and Vledi!I Profossor David l'rotnss  
recognized by the University since the 1980s. The letter  helped clear his name in connection with a 1982 doubl11  
was primarily intended to warn parents of the dangers that  murder in Chicago's Washington Park. Tim crowd wtilcomed  
students rushing these three fraternities could encounter,  Porter with laughs when he asked if thny all knmv who lin  
said Michael Carey. assistant director of Leadership  was. In the lr,ss than five minutes that h() spoke. Porter  
Development and Greek Affairs and co-signer of tho letter.  described his 17 ynars in prison.  



q)cujltmouth 
Corre9e 
in which mrm and wnmPn ran have healthv social interactions," but sin­gle-sc~ houses are a "necessary part of tlm co lie go experience." 
"That's the most popular social avenue. and I just think that forcing them to combine social spacP in such a popular avenue would just com­pletely revamp the whole social a!mosplrnre at Dartmoutl1." slrn said. 
Mernhers of the f.lass of 2002 exprnssed thP. most support for the single-sex Greek system. 
Six-hundred and sixteen, or 31 per­
¦ U~JIVERS!TY Of Missoum 

¦ Sourn BENO WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast A1.:cuWca1hcr (,) forecast for daytime conditions and high 1cmperall!res 
H L 
Monday ~49 33 Tuesday ~ 45 35 
' '''' 
·d
Friday ·:-.,:.,:'· 32 26 
Q,Q,~9-QQ (}nu 
Showers T-storms Ram Flurries Snow Ice Svr:r1y Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Associated Press Graph1csNPf 
¦ NATIONAL WEATHER 


The AccuWeather® forecast for noon. Monday, Feb. 15. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
·r~ 

30S 
© 1999 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY
>--~---------~~---~ 
Pressure: 
®© ...... 

't¥.f¥C,, High Low Showers Rain T-storms F'furries Snow Ice, Sunny P~. Cloudy Cloudy 
Atlanta  58  28  Honolulu  80  67  Phoenix  76  51  
Baltimore  48  21  Houston  73  47  St. Louis  58  39  
Boston  39  20  Indianapolis  54  30  St. Paul  38  28  
Columbus  51  26  Los Angeles 65  49  Savannah  60  28  
Dallas  73  46  NewYork  43  24  Tampa  67  40  
Denver  41  30  Palm Beach  69  46  Tulsa  66  46  

-~---,__......, +:uz:; .-1 . +cc I. ¥ i I paps; I + + ..-, •-------------------------------­
Monday, February I5, 1999 
The Observer. CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Award to honor 50 undergrad profs 
Gift establishes 
Special to The Observer


directorship 

Notrn DamP will honor 50 out­
Sp«ial 10 The Obscn·er 
/\ gift from Notrn DarnP alum­nus and trust,io Robert Conway 
has Pstahlish,~<l nn endowPd directorship for th1• lJniwrsity's intPl'lHLlionally acclaimod Mndinval Institute. 
Conway and Patrick C,P-ary, prol'rssor or history and the first Conway nirC'ctor of' tho institul1•. will bf' honored at a private! dinnor Ttrnsdny, Fob. 16 in th(' lll'shurgh Library. 
I\ I')6(, Notni name graduate. Conwuy holds a masl1>r's or !Jl1si1wss administration degree l'rom thP Univrrsity of' Chicago and a masl<'r's dcgr<'P from tho Univnrsity nf' Louvain in Brlgium. 11<' is a limitud partner of Coldrnnn. Sachs Xi Co., divid­ing his time hetwonn London and Now York. 
Ilti has bnon a member of tho firm sinc11 1970 and h,L._ SP.fVl!d us managing dirnctor of (;oldman Sachs lntnrmtional Corporation in London and as co-rhair of (;oldman Sachs in N<'w York. 
Conway was Hlnctect in I 9()0 lo Notrn Danw's Board ol' TrusLP<'S and currently chairs lhP ac-adnrnic and faculty a!Tairs 1:orr11nitt1-H1. lln also se.rvP.s on th<1 Univnrsity's Prnsidcnt's llnvelopmrnl Committee and 
standing undergraduate teach­ers nach year in a rrnw awards
the International Advisory Council. lie was a member of 
program created with a gift from Univ1irsity trustoe .John Kancb.
th<' Advisory Council for th(' Collage of Arts and Letters from 
The Ka1wb Tead1ing Awards 1987-1992. 
mark a new dPparturr' in thn Geary, appointed dirf'ctor of 
recognition of teaching nxcol­l1rncn al NotrH Dame. While mosl
the Medieval Institute in 1997, existing teaching awards am
oversees its multifnceted pro­grams of undnrgraduate and rnstrictod to a single 
rncipinnt, thr. Kanr.b
graduate study, its collections 
Awards will br. used to 
excellence at Notri~ Dame. It was his gin in 1995 that establishnd thr. Univ1)rsily's Kaneb C1:ntcr for Teaching Excnllencc, which has generated ovnrwlrnlming support from tlrn Nntrn Dame faculty. 
"At Notrn Dame wo continually art' sePking ways to rnallirm our undergraduate teaching mission and r:elebrale those who bring it to life," said UniVl)rsity prnsiucnt Commencem!'nt and in spc•cial coremonies arrangt'd by tlrn col­leg<'s and School of Archilncturn. 
Each acadnrnic unit will nstah­1ish its own criteria for tlrn awards, but all thn critPria will indud<• stuc11,nt inp11t. such as thn results of' students' 'foaclwr Course Evalualions. 
'foarhing and rnsParrh litnlltv will beconrn ,digibk for thi, awards af'tnr meeting the liV<)· 
yc!ar touching rnquirn­

ment and bning granl11d and an active program on lec­
tcnuro. Non-tunurncl tu rns, SP.minars and r:onfnr­
dnnwnstrate the l'ull 'ATNOTRE DAME WE 
rf'gular !'acuity. includ­cncos. 
11xtent of excrdlent CONTINUALLY ARE 
ing rnsnarch, library lie plans to expand the insti­
teaching at Notre Dame. SEEKING WAYS TO REAFFlRM 
and spPcial profossionalNol only will ~O out­tutP's faculty snminnrs and vis­
!'acuity. will lw nligihlP iting f''111owships through tho 

standing teachers be OUR UNDERGRADUATE 
l'or Lim awards if' thnynicognizPd Pach Y!'ltr,

ongoing supporl of Conway. 

TEACHING MISSION AND CEL-lrnvo rnnt tlw und,•r•
but also. bflrause win­ThP lirst such seminar, "U1·ban 
gradualP tPaching

rmrs will beconrn ineligi-EBRATE THOSE WHO BRING
Space, Urban Culture," is 
r<'q u iremPn t. scheduled for September and 
blc for the award for the IT TO LIFE.' 
A mombor of the

following two yoars. a
will explorn urban life in histor­ical porspoclivP-. 
total of 150 individual faculty nwmbors will be
Geary joinod the Notre Damo faculty aft('r spending the previ­honornl in cverv thrcn­ynar-pcriod. · 
ous fivn y,•ars at UC! A as a pro­Th!\ Kaneb Awards
fossor of historv and director of its Center foi: l\ledieval and 
will b(~ appointed among th<' far­ul ty of' the University's four
Henaissance Studies. lie also undPrgraduaw collngPs and its
previously taught and conduct• School of :\rrltitPcturo. llecausP
od research at Princeton tlwir intent is to rncognizn nxcel­
University and the University of Florida. 
lPncn llrnt is ur.monstratPd over lime, tlw awards will be giv@ to
/\ scholar of international !'acuity who have been ar.tive
repute, Geary specializes in the full-time in undergraduatn
study of early medieval social teaching for at lr.ac;t live years.
and cultural history. barbarian The creation of the Kannb
societies, the history of memory Awards continues Kannb's
and the history of ellmicity. 
Notre lla11w's l!oard of'  
Trustees sine!'  1980.  
f:4TJIH!/ HDWAI/D MAu.m·  Kannb n1rnmtly ('hairs  
l!Nt\BRSl71' J'Rl,Sfl)f:NT  its studr.nt affairs com­ 
mitlPI'. Thn Worrnstnr.  
Mass., natiw is chair­ 

rather Edward Malloy. "To our man and chid nxcculivt) oflicnr grf'at good fortune anrl his undy-of Gulf' Oil and othnr f'amily-con­
,ing credit, John Kaneb has b<1nn trollnd companies. our full, constant and generotis c;raduated l'rom llarvard partrn~r in this effort, nnabling Univnrsity in I1):i(,. h(• is now a us to increaso both our support mmnbnr of U111 board of follows and, now, our rewards for of tho llarvard Mmlical School tear.bing excellence." and national chairman of its 
The Kaneb Awards will havn a capital rampaign. value of $1,000, payable either In each of Notr<• Dame's most in cash or as a supplement to recent capital campaigns, Kmwb the !'acuity member's prol'nssion-crnat1id $ l-111illio11 scholarship 
The endowments, one for students annual who Pncount11r S<'V!'n1 linancial winners setbacks during thnir Notre 
'will Im Damn vnars and tlw sncond for r n cog -1lispanic students. nizml at 



THE 
BSE 


is now accepting applications for the following positions on the 

1999-2000 General Board 

AD DESIGN MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge of QuarkXpress, Aldus Freehand and Adobe Photoshop. The Ad Design Manager oversees a staff of design­ers, works closely with advertising and marketing departments and is responsible for the design and layout ofadvenisements. 
SYSTEMS MANAGER · Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience and knowledge of computer networking. The Systems Manager maintains and updates the Macintosh network and printers and is responsible for training the entire Observer staff on the use of the system. 
CONTROLLER Applicant must he a sophomore or junior majoring in accounting or finance at Notre Dame or Saint Marv's. The Controller is responsible for preparing The Observer's operat­ing budget and taxes, accounts payable, cost-tracking and other transaction duties. 
\X'EB ADMINISTRATOR Applicant must he familiar with building and maintaining a World Wide \Xleb site. The Web Administrator is responsible for working with the editorial departments of The Obscrvn in ordcr to update and archive the content of the site each day. The Web Administrator also must be able to expand the capabilities of the site. 
GRAPHICS EDITOR Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and a working knowledge of Free Hand and/or Adobe Jllustrator. The Graphics Editor over!>ees a staff of designers and must work closely with News, Sports and Scene to match top-quality graphics with the content ofeach da}'~ newspaper. 
Any fuli-tirne undergraduate or graduate student at Notre name or Sr1im· JVfrt!'J'S is encouraged to app';·v. Notijj, /,1irhe!le Krupd as snt7n as possible ((you inte1,d to apply. A three-page statement ofintent and a resumi arc required for application. For questions about the application process or for rr!m·e ntjormation about any position, call The Observer at 631-4542 or 631-5323. 
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Monday, February 15, 1999 
campus, in the arena of multi­new class solely on Chicana event, but also secured funding cultural course offerings, literature. Knowing vr,ry little for it as weII.

SMC Trial 
Saint Mary's still lags behind on the subject, yet willing to The team is coached by Abbie continued from page 1 other institutions. ask questions and learn, she continued from page 1 Fellrath, a South Bend attorney, 
"Saint Mary's tries to offer accepted the challenge. who is assistrd by Notre Dame 'culture' and support to resi­students a diversified campus "I asked every simple thing Arts and Letters, who not only law student Chris Wheaton. dence hall programs are not life and class selection, but we you can think of because I did­coordinated this weekend's 
in full throttle this year, but don't," said Saint Mary's n't know," said Loux. "I know we're working hard," she English professor Ann Loux. more now, but still I let the added. Loux was asked by a student students really just teach each Although the College contin­a fow years ago t11 hr,gin n other and me." trns to attempt to diversify the 





Kasich to make bid for presidency 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 
Budget hawk Rnp. John Kasich, saying he was "a little fresher" than other politicians, is joining the growing list of Republicans who have formally announced plans to seek the GOP presidential nomination next year. 
The Ohio Hepublican said he would formally announce Monday in his home state that he is filing papers with the Federal Election Commission to set up an exploratory committee and would then travel to New Hampshire and Iowa to begin his uphill battl<l for the nomina­tion. 
The 46-year-old I louse Budget 
Committne chairman joins four 
other Republicans who have 
formed exploratory committees 
-Sen. John McCait1 of Arizona, 
former Vice President Dan 
Quayle, conservative activist 
Gary Bauer and former 
Secretary of Education Lamar 
Alexander. 
Two other llepublicans now 
considered front-runnnrs for the 
GOP nomination, Texas Gov. 
George W. Bush and former Red 
Cross President Elizabeth Dole, 
have yet to announce their 
intentions. Millionaire publisher 
Steve Forbes also is expected to 
make another run for the White 
llousc, and a seconcl run by for­
mer California Gov. Pete WiL'ion 
is possible. 
Kasich, now in his ninth term 
in the House, has built a reputa­
tion as a tenacious supporter of 
smaller government and lower 
taxes. In the interests of' balanc­ing the budget, he has at times dilforcd with his party's leader­ship, such as in opposing the building of B-2 bombers and his advocacy of closing big business' tax loopholes. 

'Tm a different kind of politi­cian, particularly in my party," Kasich said on NBC's "Moot the Press," "and I'm going to try to build a better Amr.rica, try lo inspire some people." 
Kasich characterized himself as a mailman's son who grnw up in a blm:-collar community near Pittsburgh and "got into politics because I wantod to change the world." 
IIH said that'Sincc 19:i2, the year l~n was born, there has been a Nixon, Bush or Dole on every GOP tickHt except in 1964, and it was time for a changci in the Republican party, "They're like Pepsi and Coke," he said. "Everybody knows their names." 
Kasich said he wasn't con­cerned about the low level of his namP rPcognition. "The beauty of this system is that you can go to Iowa and New Hampshire, and that's where people smell you, they poke you, they look you in th<J <~ye," he said. He added that Democrats Jimmy Carter and Bill Clinton both used the Iowa-New Hampshire phe­nomenon to get their successful bids for the presidency on track. 
lie said he can succeed because "I like to have fun_, I have a lot of good ideas, I have a proven track record. And you know what it comes down to? I'm just a little different and a 
little fresher than  a lot of the  
peopl,\!  that  are  in  politics  
today.  



Got news? Call 1-5323. 
LASALLE BOOKSTORE 
Your source for the best new theological and philosophical books-we can special order any book you need! 
Winter Clearance Sale! 
20-50% OFF MANY TITLES FEBRUARY 15-19. 
THE LASALLE BOOKSTORE • 234-0003 237 N. Michigan St. (at LaSalle), downtown S.B. Open 10-5, Mon -Fri., lasalle@michiana.org 
It's Coming!!! 

The B.C.A.F. Annual Blak Koffee House Is Coming To Notre Dame On 
Friday, February 19th, 1999 at 7:00 p.m. 

In The LaFortune Student Center Ballroom 
Semi-Formal Attire ls Required 
Also, That Night We Will Be Presenting The Thurgood Marshall Scholarship Award To Two Outstanding Freshmen. 
Tickets Are On Sale Now At The LaFortune Student Center Information Desk 

Questions?? Call 634-2914 or 634-3827 


:Celebrate President's Day 


r!}.a ~?.~~~~~~tu~~ 
'Must be a full lime employee and direct deposit your net pay. 
www.ndfcu.org 
(2 l 9) 239-66 l I 
(800) 522-66 l I 
1Na¥1 
lndcpendelll or the University 


Monday, February I5, 1999 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
¦ 


Jews protest court decision 
.Jl•:HllSALl•:M 

Clw11ti11g and swaying in prayt>r, 200,000 Orthodox .lf'WS gatlwrPd in .IPrusaln111 011 Sunday to prot1'sl rnurt rulings lh1\y say tllrPat1•11 th1•ir way ol' li1'1•. About S0,000 sPcu­lar .IPWS, sollH' with lloWPl'S in Llwir hair and danl'ing to bongo drum rhythms, l'ormnd a 1·111111tPr-prot.Psl 1warby and hnarcl s1wakPrs prn111isi11g rull11ral "war." llncnnl S11prnmn <:ourl d1•dsions e·lnan~d Lill' way for s1·minary ~111d1•nls to IH· dral'tPd, and diall1\11gnd the Orlh11dox l'ontrol ol' marriagP, burial, Sablrnlh travPI and otlll'r pnrsonal status issuPs. l.ast WPPk. lPading rnbhis callml llrn judg1•s "1•1wmiPs" and arrt1S!'d llwm ol' trying to dl'st.rov .l11daism. Th1111sands or ult.ra­Ortl10dox ;Hf'n and wome•n lillPd a crossroads al .lnusall'm's wi•slPrn P11tra111·p, 
Iraq threatens new offensive 
BA(;llllAD 

Tlw Iraqi govPr111nn11t said Sunday it could allal'k AmPrirn11 and British hasns in t.111• l'Prsian 1;1111' that an' usPd to launch airstrik(•s against Iraq. "WI', by lwlp from (;ml and support from thn sons of our glori­m1s Arab nalinn. including tnu' and sincnn• 1i.lli111wls ... in Sattdi Arabia and Kuwait. havP !hf' ahility to attack the soldiers and IllPalls of aggr<'ssion from whatnvor rngion," Iraqi tn!Pv.ision said, quoting a statPment from l'n~sid<!nl Saddam llusscin and senior IPad1~rs. Tlw stnte1mm1t c:am11 amid a simnrnr­
ing war of n1ffVI\S with the United Stall's and Britain uwr "110-lly" zo111~s imposed in north" e'rn and soutlwrn Iraq. Iraq doos not rocog­nizP thP zo1ws and has vowed to lire at any pla,w that violates its airspace. ThP zones w.-rn s!'l up hy Llw UnitPd States, Britain and France• aft1•r thn JC)<J I PPrsian Gulf War to prPv1•nt tlrn Iraqi air forco from attacking rPlwls in tlw north and south. 
Mardi Gras kings unite 
NEW OHi .EANS 

111 !Ill' lat11st symbol of slowly nroding sodal and racial barriers, a m idd In-aged whit" husineissman in gaudy gold crown and pag,i-hoy wig inlt\!Hls to exchang11 l'ormal grPPtings with a black Mardi Gras king on llw watrrf'ront. The formal nweling sdwdubl f'or Monday night is believed to bfl tlw lirst of' tlw two make-lwlieve monarchs: HPx. King of Carnival. whose secrntive, high­sodPly organization dates back to 1872. and King Zu I u of' tlrn Zu I u Social Aid and l'!Pasurn C:luh. foundi!d in I1)09. "This is his­tory-making. This has tWVPI' taken placll," 
said Hoy <;lapion, a city council member and longtime\ nwmbPr of Zulu. Thn mnnting is part of' a giant opnn-air musir and lirnworks show lwralding 1.undi Gras. 
Market Watch: 2/12 
Dow 
AMEX: 
696.12

./ONES 
-5.29 Up: Nasdaq: 
l,369 
2.Ul.89 -8.Hi6






9,09 
NYSE: 
Down:
581.46 
1955
-8.28 
S&P 500: 
1230.13 
Composite
-2:1.91 

Volume: -88.57 876,609,069 
VOLUME LEADERS 

i Urdl'~lSl' l'lfl!.UJ ·~1 n1ju~mE I fo)I:::. Clllfl 
Ill I I CI I\H'LJ'I I k  Ill IL  · ! 1 ?7  •ll.119-"ll  ~Vl.HH  
1,111, t11tl• \U I '-'l'PKl.1}( ll\l I\ i l'tl l l\Y\I i.\.1\ \flt l!U'.'ll H I u HU'  l'\'ll \Vl'O.\.I l "l(_(l \I\I r  -~.07 · I 2~ ..,.~~._\.07  -6.75(;0 -0.'Jlf;'~ .. \.Kl:'iO .lj,()l'.lt)(J  l2b.~O 79.H t)l)J)i, L'i7.7~  
l'IHllJHi\ I ll\1\1 t ( )\lf'\l} ( ll\ll'lJ 11.U.  Pit~,\' ,·1•Q  +ltd}I -•UN  -t-7 ..1150 -I.Kil~  ,~ ... 4 4VJ-l  
1'111111' \-IOltRI\ l"  -.io  +II.bl  +0.2-15.0  40.t,2  
)P UI\V,\Jlt)S 1'-: CO ,\\11 It 1l,I l:",;t  IIH< ,\()I  ·ZO.$,t .:\.7fi  ,i.875.0 .t,,\Hn  15.00 15H.$0  

¦ ERITREA 


Assoc1ATED P1rnss 
ASMARA 
Shattering a three-day lull in the Horn of Africa war, Eritrea shot down an Ethiopian helicopter gunship Sunday. Reports of the shooting brought joyful residents into the streets of Eritrea's capital to celobratn. 
Eritrean authorities said Eritrea's antiaircraft batteries brought down the Ethiopian Mi-24 helicopter at Bure, 45 miles south of the Eritrean port of Assab. All of the helicopter's crew were killed, the Eritrean Foreign Ministry said. 
Just 2 1/2 hours earlier, an Ethiopian Antonov-12 bombed a sparsely popu­lated civilian area on the outskirts of Assab. Casualty reports were not immediately available. 
Assab was a key trade outlet for Ethiopian goods until May, when war between Ethiopia and Eritrea forc11d Ethiopian companies to reroute their trade to nearby Djibouti. The two Horn of Africa neighbors are fighting over disputed areas along their 620-mile border. 

More than 1,000 people were killed in May's fighting, which subsided in June with a U.S.-brokered moratorium on airstrikes. Full-scale war again flared Feb. 6, with Ethiopia using planes and at least one helicopter at several fronts. • 
News of the downed helicopter was reported on Eritrean radio Sunday, triggering street celebrations in Asmara. 
"We are a small people but we arc very strong," said Medhane Zerabruk. 39, a reveler at Asmara airport singing war songs. The cheering residents were quickly dispersed by police, apparently nervous that large crowds in the capital could draw air attacks. 
Ethiopia confirmed the shootdown, saying it took place during heavy artillery exchanges that continued until latci afternoon. ll had no comnrnnt on casualties. 
Ethiopian government spoktlswo111.rn Selome Tadesse said two Eritrean tanks and a large water rnsnrvoir wern destroyed in the attack. 
"Since the arna is without any watnr supply, the destruction of' the water reservoir is quite significant," Selonrn said. 
An Eritrean government statement on Sunday said 16 civilians have hmm killed and 20 wounded by Ethiopian aircraft since rob. 6. 
"Ethiopia is resorting to air bom­bardment in violation of the U.S.-bro­kered moratorium bcr.ause it has received heavy pounding in ground lighting," the stat11ment said. 
¦ BALKAN PEACE TALKS 

Albright leads negotiation talks 
ASSOCIATED PRESS 
RAMBOUILLET, France 
S<1cretary of State Madeleine Albright, bringing Serb and Kosovo Albanian negotiators together for the first time in a week of talks, said Sunday she was able to convince the Albanians that a U.S.-sponsored peace plan was a "fair deal." 
But the most Albright could say about tho Serb side was that they were willing to consider her warning thal the parties face a fork in the road betwoon peace and rriorn con­flict. 
"They were very interested in hear­ing what I had to say,'' Albright said as she stood outside the 14th-century French chateau in Rambouillet, south of Paris, where the talks aro being held. 
She indicated that the Serbs were not yet ready to agree to the deal that allow ethnic Albanians self-rule in Kosovo but leave the province wilhin existing Yugoslav borders. 

''I hope very much that the Serbs will sec it is in their interest to sign on," she said. 
Albright met with the two sides Sunday in an effort to assess the progress of the talks. 
. ''Based on my conversation with the Kosovar. Albanian_ leadership today, their delegation recognizes that tho Conta,ct Group plan is 11 fair deal for the people of Kosovo," she said. "There is every indication that they will be ready to sign by the timo that the conference is over." 
Until Sunday, international media• tors led by U.S. envoy Christopher Hill had been shuttling between two floors of the chateau. The two dele­gations had nevermet fnce-to-face. 
"Today I was abln to bring the leaders of the two delegations togeth­er for their first joint mNiting," he said, adding that in hor view it was justified to continue the talks into next week. 
"Thlly recognizo this is an historic opportunity and that the killing must stop," she said of the two delega­tions. 
"I came here with a clear message for both sides," she said. "They face a fork in the road. One f'ork is to dis­aster, chaos and morn killing. Tho other fork leads back to a rational solution .thnt will achieve peace, democracy and human rights for ull the people of Kosovo." 
Earlier Sunday, Albright delivered a stern message to Serbian Prnsident Milan Milutinovic, urging tho Serbs to get down to business at the Kosovo peace talks or face NATO bombs. 
Monday, February l 5, 1999 

page 6 The Observer. INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
¦ AFGHANISTAN 
Official: bin Laden 
has disappeared 
Associated Press 
ISLJ\MABAD. Pakistan 
J\n J\l'ghan leadPr maintained the wlrnrnahouts of Osama bin Laden werP unknown Sunday, hut othr:r sources said llrn sus­1rnct in tlw bombing of' two U.S. mnbassins had fled to Somalia, Iraq or Chechnya. 
"We don't know whothcr Im is in Afghanistan or wlwther ho left the country." the Taliban militia's Radio Shariat quoted Mullah Mohamm!1d Omar as saying. The Taliban governs most of J\l'ghanistan. 
Bin Laden, who apparenlly dropped out of sight on Friday, has h1•en indicted in tlH~ United 
Statns in the August embassy 
bombings in Kenya and Tanzania that killed 274 people. 
Tlw Unitnd Stutr.s, which accrnrns bin Lad!\11 of financing and training an international tnrrori~t network, bas been demanding the Taliban rulers hand over bin Ladnn to stand trial. 
The Taliban has steadfastly 
refused. calling bin Laden an 
honornd guest and a friend who 
fought with them against invad­
ing Soviet soldiors in the l 980s. 
Many peopln connected to 
official circles in Pakistan 
bclinvc that the Taliban does know the location of the tflrror­ist suspect. 
Pakistan is a strong ally of tlrn Taliban and onn of only throe countries to give them official rPcognition as the government of" J\fghanistan. 
One Pakistani source, who asked not to bn identified becausn of his links to the gov­ernment, said that bin Laden had fled to Chechnya. Bin Laden is bnlievcd to have financed Muslim militants who !"ought a bitter secessionist battle in the breakaway Hussian republic. J\nalysts say bin Laden's options for asylum are limited. 
Iraq was considered a possi­ble dpslination because bin Laden had rccflived an invita­tion from Iraqi President Saddam llussnin last month. And Somalia was a third possi­ble destination because of its anarchy and violent anti-U.S. history. 
Bin Laden arrivnd in 
J\fghanistan more than five 
years ago aboard his private 
plane with three wives, bis chil­
dren and 1SO followers and was 
granted a saic haven. 
Ile still has access to the 
plane, which he could use to 
leavn the country. lie could also 
travel overland to Chechnya or 
Iraq. 

··¦ 'AFGHANISTAN 

Taliban stiles civilian life 
· PAT KO SHANA 
F'or Haji Ratmat Gul. talk of the Soviet withdrawal from his homeland a decade ago resut• rerts memories of a war so painft!lly fresh it could have be.enyesterdny. 
Fifty Soviet soldiers roarod into his village ·in_trucks and Hrmored person.nel carriers, churning up the dusty track tha:tsnakes through Pat Ko Shana, a-village 35 miles frQm tM. capital,Kabul.
Seventy•boys, some.· as. yol.l.(lg as 8. fled .to an undergrou!ld canal because they feared th¢y would be conscripted and se.nt to fight U.S.-supported Islamic insurgents. But their hiding placo wa,ssoon discovered. 
Gul remembers watching with horror from a nearby sec• ond•story window as the sol• diers.fed something into the canal through a pipe, then fired 
a: subm aChine gun into the canal. The earth trembled, and flam.es shot. 30 feet into the air wUh a terrible roar. The· boys were dflad. 
That was 1982 -'--seven years before the last ned Army troops loft Afghanistan on. Feb. 15, 1989, fleeing fierce resiss tance and a war that Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev .called a "bleeding wound." 
Ma11y ¥ghans believe tt was theit•·defeat or the Sovietarmy tha.t pm,hed tho .Soviet Unio11 .towardits downfall. Within 10 months ofthe withdrawal, the Berlltt Wall came. crashing down, Sovietsatellite states started breaking a.way and the · Sovlet Union bega!l!x) unraveL · 
''.B(lcause of the strength of · thti people of Afghanistan, the Sovi9ts had to withdraw, and it is becauJC oftheAfghaJ).S and thek:humiliatingdefeat of the ,Soviet {Jnhm tMt it gave oth­ers, like Poland, the.strength to ·· fight for. their freedom," ·said . ~bdµl patttJX Paktifls. a foreigIJ mtn1$try reprAsentatJve of tlrn 
.Tali~an reHgiotis army that now rules 90 percent of Afghanistan. 
But. the fighting • hasn't stopped for Afghans. Ten years 
·later, many qul'lstion the resulls · oftheir bloody struggle against the Soviets and grumble over theirchoice ofleadors today.
th<:we are lhe no.nonsense Talib~n fighters, who espouse a severe brand of Islam th at ha..:; made women prisoners in their own countrv, locked inside their homes.'forbidden frorn working and going to school. Music .is illegal, mur­derers are executed. in public, and thieves have their limbs amputated. 
Then there is the opposition, 
a collection of often. feuding Islamic mi!Hias holed up in northern Afghanistan. The strongest faction is led by Burhanuddin Rabbani, who was driven from a nominal presidency whon Taliban forces captured Kabul in 19%. 
Ii was while Habbani was president that the Islamic mili• tias that had forced the Soviets to get out turned their guns on each <>ther in a bitter struggle for power. The_ fighting around Kabul destroyed 70 percent of the city, killed 50,000 people, mostly cMlians, and maimed thousands. 
The bloodshed drew the new Taliban movement into the war in 1994, and Taliban fighters marched across much of' the country. 
.For Afghans, it has been one disastrous ruler after another. 
"What have we done to 
deserve this?" asked a women 
who gave her name only as 
Raqiba. 'Enveloped from head 
to toe by her pale blue 
"burqa," she prayed beside the 
grave of her husband, who was 
killed in a rocket attack. 
"We have Jost everything. 
What can I say'? I feel some­
times like I am losing my 
mind," she said, crying. "I pray 
now only for the future of my 
childrrm. Our lives are lost, but 
what about them'?" 


When something is loo extreme for words, it's to the Nth degree. And that's the level of technology you'll experience at Raytheon. 
Raytheon hos formed a new technological superpower -Raytheon Systems Company, composed of four major technological giants: Raytheon Electronic Systems, Raytheon E-Systems, Raytheon Tl Systems and Hughes Aircraft. The new Raytheon Systems Company is driving technology to the limit. And we're looking for engineers who won! to push the envelope. Break new ground. Make their mark. 
At Raytheon, you'll toke technology-and your career-to the highest possible level. You'll toke it to the Nth. We'll be visiting your campus soon. Contact your career placement office now to schedule on interview, or check out our website at www.rayjobs.com. If you ore unable to meet with us, please send your resume to: Raytheon Resume Processing Center, P.O. Box 660246, MS-201, Dallas, TX 7 5266. We have many exciting opportunities available and we would like to talk to you. 
Internet: www.rayjobs.com • E-mail: resume@rayjobs.com 
U.S. citizenship may be required. We are an equal opportunity employer. 
Raytheon 
t 1 It 

Monday, February 15, 1999 The Observer• NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Clinton heads for Mexico summit 
WASIIIN(;TON 

In a quick pivot from impnarhmnnl, l'n•sidt>nl Clinton lmadml for M1•xko 011 Sunday for a 11uick s111nmit. to Pncour­
agc mon• 
progrnss in 
its dil'f'icull struggle against ill11­ga I drugs and govt>rn­11111111. l'Ot'· ruptio11. 


Two days Bill Clinton aft.1•r his arquittal by Llw SPnal<'. Clinton wus to m1•11t witlt l'residnnl Frrwsto Z,•dillo Ht M,•rhla in Llw Yun1la11 1wni11sula. a popular 
tourist <11\Slirmtion 
Tlw visit -2:t hours l'rom landing lo lak1·01T -r.omcs two WPPks hdorn t.lw udministra­ti,m 11111st rPndPr a l'ormal Pval­uatio11 nf /'.foxico's coopi•rnlion in righting drng Irafficking. Uinlon anrl Z1•clillo lrnv1• mnt ahout PVl'I'\' six months ov!'r the lasl l'l'w y,;ars. and oflkials say this 1111•1•li11g is inlPndcd simply LO maintain good rPlations. 
Soon af'tl'r /\ir F11rcP Onn was air\mr,w. Clinlo11 and !irsl lady llil!arv Hodham Clinton appPa1:!,d i11 Liu• prnss rabin of' tlH• plarw passing out. chocolate nwdy l'rom a hug1i lwarl­shap,:d box. 
"llappy Valf'ntirws Day," the prcsidPnt said. "Isn't this the higg1•st l11•arl you fW1•r saw in your lifo'! This is a lwllcr kind of' IH•arl of darkrrnss." 1111 did not dahoratc. 
Mrs. Clinton was wt•aring a gold-n1lnn•d. lwart-shap1•d pin nn hrr dark suit. /\ski'd wlwtllPr it was 1ww. she r,•nliPd, "Brand 1ww." Sim t!wn 
pnintnd lo IHir husband and srnilml. 
Mrs. Clinton said I.ho box ol' candy was a gift from one of her brothnrs. Tim first couple movnd quickly through tho prnss cabin. rlislrihuting candy lo pass1111gcrs in other purls of the pla1111 as welI. 
Clinton and Zrdillo arc cxp1ictcd lo discuss immigra­tion and complotn an agrne­menl on bordor safety and curbing lmn.lnr violence. 
Mexico could hn hit with tough nronornic sanctions if it rnrnives a failing grado in the drug baltli•. While the adminis­tr alio n says Mnxico has a lri•nwndous drug problnm, it is lwlhwPd likPly Clinton will c(•r­tif'y M1•xico as a r.oopt>ralivr. ally in.fighling narcotics, as it has lw1m in all 12 y<'ars since tlw ,·on grnss ion a Ily m and a lHd rnvicw procnss hogan. 
liv1:11 1)(1forn Clinton's trip, the administration appoarnc! to bu laying groundwork for a posi­tiv11 report while acknowledg­ing that cocainn seizures hy the !\foxicun policn havn droppnd. 
"Prnsidnnl Zndillo is cloarly trying to nstahlish a clean gov­ornrrfont and resprcl for the ruin ol' law." Sandy Berger, tho prnsid1111 l's 11 a tiona I snrurity advisnr, told rnportcrs. 
lle said Mnxico is confronting its prohlmn of government cor­ruption "with rnmarkablc can­dor." 
"lnc!end. much of what wn know and much of what trou­bles us about Lhn extent of cor­ruption in Lim Mexican law­nnl"orcemcnt n!Tort has cmorgod l'rom Mexico's own nfl'orts to uproot it," Berger said. "i\nd that's something we 1rnnd to acknowledge and 
nncourago 

James Dobbins, the National Sticurity Council's senior direc­tor fnr lnterAmerican Affairs. said, "We think we've made a lot or progress over the last yf'ar." 
Mexico blames the United Statos for much of its drug problem, because Americans me the world's biggost buyers of illidt narcotics, Yet, in hopes of winning certification, l\frxico announced a $400 million "total war" FPb. 4 that rails for buying aircraft, ships. radar, X­ray oquipmnnt and otlrnr items. 
Mt\Xico is a major transit poinl for cocaine shipments l'rorn South Amorica lo thH Unit.ml StatPs. It also is a major producr.r of marijuana and a signilicanl producer of heroin. 
With frictions ovrr drugs, the administration sought to high­light progress 1m another front: booming flConomic trade lmlwenn the United States and l\foxir.o in thr five years sincr Lhn North American Frnc Trade t\grrn~ment, known as NAl<TA. 
Mnxir.o has l'mcrg('d as the sor.onrl largest foreign markel for U.S. exports, after Canada. It 11clipscs even Japan, Borger noted. 
U.S. exports to Mexico tot.al $79 billion a year, more than twicn the pre-NAFT.t\ figure. Mexico accounts for close lo 20 percnnt of lhe total of U.S. export growth in the last five years. · "So it's worth rnmembering Lhal our trade relationship with M,ixico has prntected a lot of t\merican workers from losing their jobs at a time ol' tremen­dous uncertainty and upheaval in the global economy," Bergor said. 
Officials debate Independent Couns~l Act 
•Asm2iatttd Press 
WASHINGTON 
Lawmakers from both par­ties saw almost no chance Sundav for survival of the Independent Counsel Act, which provided the frame~ work for KennBth Starr's inv<.~stlgalion of Prosidant Clinton. when it comes up for tenewal this year. 
· "This law noeds to tMmi­nate. I rlon't want it to be amended. I want it to be ended," Sen. Mitch McConnell. R-Ky., said on CNN's "Late Edition." 
The act pass!-ld in 1978 as the post-Wat('rgnto Congrnss sought a means to onsurc that politics did not interfere when the president, his cabi­net and other sonio1· officials are investigated fur wrongdo­ing. It expires June 30 unless Congress and tho president approve its reauthorization. 
Attorney General Janet Reno, at the urging of Republicans, has seven times asked for tbe naming or an independent counst;JI to inves­tigate administration officia:L,;, most notably Starr who has pursued President Clinton's connections to Whitewater, Travelgate, the FBI files and finally his affair with Monica Lewinsky, which led to Clinton's impeachment. 
Democrats contend that Starr abused the almost unHmited powers the act gives an independent counsBI, while Republicans have joined Democrats in protest• ing the amount of money 
spent. Starr has spent: more than $40 million ovM rnor1-1 than four yoars investigating the president. Another inde­pend e 11 t counsel, Donald Smaltz, took four years and $17 million looking into cor­ruption charges against t'or­mer Agriculture Socrtitary Mike Espy. Espy was acquit­ted of those charges. and Clinton was found inrwctrnL ol' irnptrnchmcnt charges that grew out of Starr's investiga­tion. 
Ropublicans also aro unha1>py about past indC'pcn­dent counsel acftiviUes during GOP administrations and about Heno's decisions not to seek independent. counsols for possible Dt'lmocratic cam­paign fund-raising violations. 
"One thing we can do in this Congress is nut extend Urn life of tlrn indHpondont counsr-1 statute. It was a post­Watergate liberal notion, and it was a disaster," said Sen. Daniel Patrick Moynihan, D­
N. Y., on NBC's "Meet the Press." 
"It's either going to bn rewritten significantly, or H will be allowed to lapse. In all likelihood tlrn lattM•," agrend Sen. Don Nicklos of Oklahoma. lfopublican whip in the Senate, on ABCs "This Week." 
White llouse Chief of Staff John Podnsta, also on NBC, said that while the White House has taken no final position, "It's vil'l.ually hope­less to try to fix it, I think, without some major, major revisions." 

I Help the environment. Recy_g,~ T~~'"Qbserver. 
L·=-====---------------------------_;:...:;""'-"~"=-==========~-=-=-=-=-=:--:=================~ 
Romance Languages 101: Italian 
Si mangia malissimo a scuola. 
(·a1qpJa1 S! 1004:is 041 ie pooi 84.l :uone1suei1) 
Tired of the school cafeteria? Just because you· re a student doesn't mean you have to eat like one. Fazoli's features 12 authentic Italian menu items priced under S4. 
52770 US Route 33N, 277-4008, South Bend 317 W, McKinley, 255-2551, Mishawaka 1248 Nappanee Street, 262-9873, Elkhart 


Like to write? Join the ranks of The Observer. Call 1, 5323 or come to the basement of SDH. 

Northwestern Univenity is looking for colll"ge Mlphumof'e's,junion, .and seniD~ m work •s couusdon: in the CoUegt Pn:p.1r.i:non Prol(fo1tn, :i summer program for acade1111cally talented high school student~. Counfidors serve ;s wr1ring anuructors, activity coordinator'1i, and residence hall advisors. Applicants mu,1 he available to be!(in work on June 12, 1999. 
Quahticd <"•nd1d,t« ,hould haw: 
• 
a record ofa,:adc:m.ir achieVt"mt:nt; 

• 
strong or:il :md written commumc2cion ski1ls: 

• 
cxtcellcnt interpersonal skills (both ,n group 211d in ont"-on-one situations)i 


• tim~...nu.n2g('n&tnt, lt"ader"hip1 and problenHolving skills; and 
• a r.inge ofcxtr.i.curricul.n interc:st5. 
Min11ri1y applimnlJ arc r,u,1smi~rd to apply, 
Ifyou welcome the challenge of guiding hi~h school ,tudents through a sunm1er ofcollel-1" learning ,nd fim. please cont,ict 
u,. 
1-800-FINDS-NU e-mail cpp@nwu.edu 

VIEWPOINT 
-Monday, February 15, 1999 os~ERVER page 8­
THE OBSERVER 
Nonu: D~.1,1r Orner: P.O. Box Q, Norte Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY'S 0!'f!O: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, 1:-.1 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cocks MANAGING Enrron BUSINFS.S MANAGEll 
Rri.111 Rcinrhaler Kyle Carlin 
A.SSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR Hearher MarKe1Hic 
NEWS EDl'l'OR. ...Michelle Krupa ADVERTISING rvl.ANACER.... . ., Rrv:111 Lutz VIEWPOINT ElllTOR ..............Fdumlo Llull An DESIGN MANA.Gfll....lsahd i'erez-h,1~ce.~chini SPORTS EmTon .........Kad1L..:en Lopi.:z SYSTEMS MANAGER ..................... Michael Drouillec SCENE EnrroRs. ......5:1d, Dyl.ig CONTROU.ER ....................................Dave Rogero ~m,ri.Kljrsd1 \XIEU AOMINJSTRATOR .......................i\!lisun Kri!la SAINT MARYf!i EDITOR ....... M. Sh,mnon Ryan GRAT'IITCS EDITOR ....................•..••..••.. Pete Cilella 
PHCH"O EDI fCJR •..• , .................. Kev111 Dahm1 
·11w ()b~crvcr ;_., tlw indcp..:ndcnt lll'W.~papcr puhlish<.:d hy the !-.lUdcnrs or the U11ivl:rsity ofN,1111; D;tir11.· du Lie and S:1i111 Mary'~ ( :ollcgc. It dnc:, nm nl'cc~surily rdh•cr r!w policies of rhc admini.<;tr:nim1 nl cid1l't.ini,.tiruriuo. 1·he new.<; is rcponcd a_., :1ccuratdy and uhjc.:rivdy ,u, posi;ible. Unsigned editorials represent rlw t1pimo11 o; rhc m,ijority of the Editor-in-(:hl,..{ '.vbnaging F.<litnr, Assi...,t;uu Mau.1g,1ng Editor and department ("Jlt11rs. Crnnmcmarics, lcucr~ ,ind cnlumm prc,;cnt tht" vir.-w.\ nf thL• ;1Uthon,, and n01 111.:ce.ssarily those ofThe Ohservci. Viewpoint i.pau: 1s av;1ib.blc to all mcmlx:r:> of the Norn: fh111c/Sain( Mary\ rnmmunily and to al! readers. The fm: txprcs!-.ion of varying opinions through ll'rtcr~ i.~ cncourag.:d. 
Contacting The Observer 
EJitor-i11-Chief 6,11-4542 Business Office 631-5313 !vf.inaging Ediror/Assisranr ME 6J 1-454 l Adverrising 631-W00/8840 Ncw.s/Phoco 6;) 1-5323 Sy.seems G.'11-8839 Sport~ C,.l 1-4543 Fax 631-6927 Scene//Salnt Mary's 6.l i-1540 Viewpoint E-Mail \'icwpoint.I@nd.edu nay Ediror!Viewpoim 631-5303 Ad E-Mail obt:rv<.:r@darwin.Lc.nd.edu Offi.ct" Manager/General lnformarkin 631-7471 News E-M;1il observcr.obsnews.1@nd.edu 


¦ RIGHT OR WRONG? 

Bengal Bouts: More Than Boxing 
Why would 132 apparently normal young men return from Christmas break to rommil themselves to thousands of pushups, sit-ups, etc., endless miles of running and the prospect of having their facial landscapes rearranged'? Are they certifiable'? Not really. Permit me to sug­gest that they may be the sanest guys in 
Charles Rice 

town. 
In the cPnlury's worst flood last year in Bangladnsh, one of the poorest areas in the world, at least 353,000 homos wern destroy1~d and at least 630 people lost tlrnir lives. Tim llolv Cross rnissioll• aries, indurling many Notre Dame and St. Mary's grads, responded to the needs or their pfwple as they have for more than a century. They bring Christ and the Faith to those impoverished people by helping them in their need. 
Since 19:31, the Bengal Bouts have been conducted by the studenl-run Boxing Club to raise money for the I Ioly Cross missions in Bangladesh. The Club now operates under the able guidauce of Hich O'Leary, director of Club Sports. The first year, the students raised $500, which, in 1931 dollars, meant a lot. Tn 1979 the total hit the record sum of $20,000. That record was broken by the $23,000 figure in 1997. Last year the Bouts raisf'd tlrn astonishing sum of $41,000. We should reflect for a mom1mt on what that amount can mean lo people for whom a few dollars can make the difference between life and death for entire families. 
As Boxing Coa(;h Tom Suddes noted after his 1997 trip to the missions, "in Bangladesh, 43 taki equal one U.S. do!­
lar. A haircut and a shave were the flquivalent of 25 cents. ;\ long taxi ride was 75 cflnts. Educating a seminarian was 1,700 taki or $40 U.S. for a month. Feeding a family of live for one day was $1. I learned from rather Joe Pishota that the plans to replace the commis­sary/dining hall would cost around $25,000 U.S. lie can complete his new five-story college building with class­rooms and a library for around $200,000." 
This year, under the leadership of President Tommy Will and his fellow officers, Tom Biolchini, Brian Gaffney, Mike LaDuke, Mike Maguire..I.R. Mellin, Dave Murphy, and Mike Homanchek, the Club has set the goal of sending $50,000 to the missions. Th<' hoxr.rs sdl ads and tickets and they pay for their own per­sonal equipment, sweatshirts, shorts, mouthpieces, etc.. at prices above cost with the profit going to the missions. 
The Bouts are scheduled for Feb. 22, 24 and 26. Please a(;ccpt our invitation to watch your fellow students, weekdays rrom 4:00 to 6:00 p.m. in the JACC, as they prepare for an effort which is important for you as well as for them. 
In the Boxing Boom you will meet peo­ple who typify what is best at Notre Dame. Tom Suddes, a Columbus devel­oper, and Terry .Johnson, a Chicago attorney, are the coaches, giving enor­mous amounts of their time and talent to work with the boxflrs. With them is Pat Farrell, the University pilot, who has a remarkable ability to bring boxers to a higher level. These cnaches are all for­mer Bengal Bouts Champions. 
The boxers are helped by extraordi­nary assistant coaches, including espe­cially Sweet C. Robinson and recent champs Tony Biolchini, '96, Ryan Rans, '98 and Chip Farrell, '98. We even have the judiciary involved through judge Roland Chamblee, '73, a four-time Bengals champ whom you will see help­ing in a corner between rounds. 
Perhaps the dominant feature of the program is its combination of purpose and friendship. As President Tommy Will put it, "There are two great things about the Boxing Club. One is knowing that you are really helping people in need. The other is in the friends you make." Brian Gaffney, a Club officr,r who will be trying to become only the ninth boxer to win four titles. is listrd on the program as "The Nutty Irishman." Don't believe it. He has his priorities right: "Four titles would be great. But I wouldn't have missed this if I had never won a fight The guys are greal. And tlrn program, no kidding, does save lives." 

It must be confossed, however, that the main cause of the amazing recent succf\ss of lhe Bengal Bouts is Emily Schmidt, a Howard Hall senior account­ing major. Assisted by Meghan Kelley of Pasquerilla East, Emily has turned the administrative sidP of the Club from a successful but slightly chaotic operation into a smoothly functioning machine, Emily's officiency has made the daily routint! glitch-free in every respect. Why does she do it? "13Pcause I believe in what this is all about," she said. "And it's been fun, It taught me a lot about management. And these are great peo­ple working for a purpose beyond them­selves." 
Last year the boxers chose .Jack Mooney, their 85 year-young trainer, whoso service to the Bouts extends over six decades, as the recipient of the Bengal Bouts Award, presented every year to someone who uniquely repre­sents the meaning of the Bouts. One rec­ollection by Jack epitomizes his own sta­tus and that of the Bengal Bouts as a vital link to the storied history of Notre Dame. "When I was a newsp~per hoy," .Jack recalls, ''selling in front of the Station, I used to sell newspapers to Knutfl Rockne and his players as they returned from road games or went on the road. A newspaper cost three cents but Rockne gave me fifty cents each time. He wa beautiful man. Having got­ten to know Rockne, I wanted to go to Notre Dame but I did not have the money. I had quit school in tlrn ninth grade. Hockne knew ahout my affoction for Notre Damn and used to ask me to come to tlrn old Field Ilouse beforo homP games. 1sat outsid<i tlw lock,~r room whilc the playcrs dressed. Wlrnn the players ran f'rom tlw lock,w room to Cartier Field, Hock1w puslrnd 1111• into tile middle o/' the pack. In this way, I snuck into Cartier Field f'ree of chargn and watchPd the home ganws... l worked on the side as an undortak<ir for a whili\ and fW!~ry time l Wl'nt to I lighland Cenrntnry whom Hocknc was burind, I put !lowers by his grave. I put llownrs by his grave cwry W<'Pk to this day." 
Jack latnr was an cnginncr f'or Studebaker and !'ought prol'ossionally. including bouts on the sanw card with Joe Louis and Tony Zain . .lack is morP than a coach to tlrn boxnrs. llis PxamplP and his dirm:t, friendly advicc will be one of thPir most enduring memorios Crom Notr<' Dame. 
The Boxing Club. in short, is ahout morn than boxing. Wn nvnn have our own Poet Laurnate, Jack Zimmerman. our trainer, who has attracted capacity crowds to his readings in Barrws & Noble. Hecker·s and elsewhcrn. 
Ryan Rans, last year's captain who is now an assistant coach, was one of tlw foremost leaders in the history or Urn Boxing Club. I le was prevented from defending his title last year wlrnn he suf­fered stress fractures in both hands in the semi-finals. The grace with which Ryan accepted this, and the concern exhibited by his fellow boxers. attest to the unique character ol' this program. 
So please support and attend the Bengal Bouts. You will enjoy them. And just by being there you will give some­thing of yourself to those in need. 
Professor Rice is a member of the /,aw School faculty and isfacully advisor to the Boxing Club. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofthe Obseruer. 
¦ DOONESBURY 
lA~FAllI 
AU !?IGHT, 5V&RY­PROM/S&/77Ht;
ONe, 5Hf/Pl?{JP.II l,fJT6R5I'f?GOTAN ANNCKJNC£­
/3/<INGINAN
MeNT 'TO MAl<i3 .1 
A-Tt=AM Of PO­
t/TICAL-PR.Co "l{}l-fuPM/3­0{JT:ttfl&,I¼1 
/JO/N 1/T/ 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
TO (JX}l</?INAT/3 MY /NAU­
rH6 /71JK$$R
(3tJRAI-!3AtL-ANC1(m-(£1< SP/3 ­C/AL-&V£NT<:i, G/Vl3 IT UP ANP81JCK R:JR MYLAT&GTAPPO!Nllz.5,,, IVIUJ I-ION6Yl 
¦ 0UOTE OF THE DAY 
'Inever know how much of what l say is true.' 
-Bette Midler 
••\I'• 
I l I 1 I I I 1 1 I I' '•II\' t • • 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THF 

Monday, Febmary 15, l 999 BSERVER ------page 9 
¦ LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Too much irony in article on PLS course 
I l'o11nd WPdnl'sday's f'ront-pagn 11r1icl11 calling campus attention tn tlH· l'I .S 1·ou,;,;n !'or gtll'sls at lhn South BPnd Crntf'r !'or tlrn I lomPIPss ironir. Th<' goal of' tlw cours1>, as sl.atPu l.iy tho l'LS chair and r1•por11•d in llw artil'i1•, is llrnl "The program giv1:s an opportunity !11 unckrstand mon' about homnlnssrwss in tlw U.S_. and how to addrnss it." 01111 ol' Uw rhinf' dillicultins 1hal stands Ill tltl' wav of 11dcln•ssing llH1 1wrsisLPnL prohlPm 01' honwh!ssnPss in our sm:il'IV is that till' li111111•lPss IIH·n1s1?lvcs arP 11ll1m not only IJonwlPss h111 also voir«-IPSS, nanwl,\SS, and facPlnss to tlwsn in positions 111' privilPg1• and pownr, su,·h as a II or us at I\;() Ami Urns th«'V will n•111ai11 1111110tirl'd on tlm margins 111' nur liv1?s unlil wn, in sPr\'i1t1t spirit. cldilmral.1•ly av,•rt our attl-ntion from oursdVt\S, . n·gard llwir humanity with tlw Py,~s of n rnnscicmcn convictnd ol 
WHII.E Tm: COURSE ITSELF MAY BE RIGHTLY INTEN­TIONED AND MAY SERVE WELL IN ITS PURPOSE OF MIS­SION TO THE HOMELESS IN OUR CITY, THE ARTICLE WAS SOI.ELY ABOUT N.D. 
l'ailPd n•sponsibility. and. rather 1han nrnrdy speaking about or l'V«'ll l'nr tlwm. !Pt tlwir own voice sound vvith resolute clarity in our 1•ars. YI'!, not only did tlrn arlidP not include a single intnr­viPW wilh or qt1otalion from any of'ilrn CFII guests enrollnd in the rotrrsP, llw only namns mPntionml wern of tlwsn who are not llwms1!lvns lwr;w!Pss and tlw only photo shown was that oftlrn 
l'I.S diair himsPlf. WhilP thn coursP itself may be rightly-inten­t iorwd and may sPrv1• wPII in its purposP of mission to tlw honrn­lnss in our ritv, tlw artidt• was solPly about ND. llavn we failed ll!H'P again to· avPrt our att,,nticm'? · 
Darrin W. Belousek ( Tl I Vol11meer. and 111.,m,nnr in the DcpC1rrn1,·nr of l'hilosophy hhm,ry I0, 1999 
So Long My Dear King of 
Jordan 
Who am I to say good-byP !'or Llw last lime, my dear King? The 

rr•sl or Uw world just did a good job a fow hours back. I cannot 
takl' auotlwr photo with you. Do you rnmemb1!r the one where 
you w1•n• holding nw while my mothnr stood rwxt to us with her 
ugly 80's sunglassns. I can not ny in l(>I' a coupl(i of hours to touch 
yom 1·0l'1ir1. nor <·an I visit your gravn and bring you flowers. 
I rnn thank you, lrnwnwr. l'or making mn who I am. lndnnd, it 

was you who sPcured a country wlrnrn my father can work. You 
eslahlislwd sl'hools, hot.h public and private, whern I got my p,du­
cation. You f'nu11dPd tlw Hoyal Automohiln Club, where I spnnt my 
childhood s1iarching for 1•1.ms during l•:astnr, and playing basket­
hall rluring !111• summ1•rs. My mom told nw how you gave monny 
lo tlH· orplmnag,1 slw runs, ancl my dad. coming back l'rom work. 
rel'c11111t!'CI many slori(•s of how you coV(H'Pd kidney. liver, and 
hPart transplant PXjH'nS(\S bncausn lhosn pPopln who nendml 
tlwm so hadly could 1101 afford ii. 
I rnnno! say anything about politics hncausP, as much as I know, I am probably still rnry ignorant. I can thank you for things thal l.oudwd my lifo as an ordinary citiwn. I can thank you l'or Mdlonald's. Dunkin' ()onllts and Pizza llut. I can thank you for allowing mP lo pray in my church. I thank you for accnpting my l'alPstinian grandf'atlwr into your 1·m111try when lw dncidf'cl t.o movn l.o .Jordan i11 I ')48. I thank you for accPpting many of' my friPtHls' p,tr<'nt.s: those who W!\rc l'orct•ll out. of Kuwait during llw c;u!r War. I thank you !'or giving us the lntnrnnt---' that wus great. i\s I 1raVC'I anvwlwrn in Llw world. I am ask11cl questions about how it f'pl')s likP to havP my mom wrappnrl up in a v1•il and lwr 1101. ahll' 10 drivo. Thank you for giving nrn tlw oppununity to inform llwrn about tlwir misconrnptions: it was you who gavl' hnr a l'!wirn. Thank you for making nw look good wlwn peopln tdl nw: "Ohl know your king, lw's suppos1•d to ()(I eool." I gu"s8 llwy WPr«' right. you W!'f'I' cool. Oh. thanks f'or owrriding rNI lap(! pro­nidurPs and building the hospitills our country so clearly 1meclr1d I.Im univ«'rsi1fos also. 
I don't think nil this conrns rlos(\ lo summing up all what you did for 1111•. Thi• s1•ns1\ of' id1rntity which you instill11d insidn of' nw. This proud lh•ling Ihat is l'or1•vi•r in nm ·is benursc ol' yotr. I foci wry sad that Inst a l'allwr. ;\t Urn sanrn time, I am v11ry happy to lrnnw that a part of you will grow insidn of' nw. as w1ill as evnry 
lnrda11i1111. 1hr as long as WI' am a nation. 
Marzouq Qubti 
Junior, Sorin I !JI! l're-profe,<ional rd11uarv 9. J'J99 

¦ LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Nickel-and-Diming Us To Death 
lloos anymrn rmnembnr tho painl'ully long talk givnn by Patty O'llara in tlw .loy<'.n CPnll'r during Frnshman Orit•ntalion" Sim built this spnPch around a singlP analogy. an analogy which ir11·itNI t.hun­rl,~rous praise from our parents. She likened our school to Disrwy World. hl'r point hcing that likP Disrrny World, ND has a sWl\p but fair once-off admission, l.lrnn i1 's all gratis, all tlw rides f'rPn. Tlwy don't nicknl and dimP you hnn\. That was lwr nwssago. Wcll, last wnPk, I s1wnt $7:i on a parking pass (yes, tlw privilngn to park), $400 on books, $30 on an activity l'nn (011 top of' tlrn $]2.:i0 alrnady paid). over $ I 00 morn to participatD in an arts course ami as you know. tlrt) list gons 011 and on. W1•II. it's lrncn over thre1: years and I have not scnn !'ally O' sinco that speech. I'm not writing so mur.h as to complain, but nxplain tlw discrnpancy lrntwnen lwr words and rnality. As I lirkncl my financial wounds and thought about Urn rising t'ost of' parking at Disrwy and thn inllatPd pricn or a Mous(ikcteer Bar, I bumped into the real answer. Quite litnrally actually. as I was rutting through J;{4 DnBartolo (tho Loung!\) betwe1m lccturns. Timm, stuck on to a mad1inc with oflicial Univnrsity glue. I mad the following sign postod. ''Tho University owns and operatns this machine at your co11­vnninncn. Hevenues from this machine are used to assist in nducational pursuits." On what rnachirw did I rnad this sign'' This high-profit machirrn, wnightPd with tlw hurdnn or supplmrnmting our paltry tuition dollars ... The change machine. 
James O'Connell 
Joshua Kirley 
Seniors, OfrCampus 

A Word against Ex-Corde 
I fonl bad for some of' my fellow studPnts who support Ex Corde Eccefsiae. It seems that they have bmm born several hundred years too latn, as unfortunately for them they missed out on thn f'un of tlm crusades, the Inquisition. and that 16th and 17th century rnal estatn boom driven by the con­quistadors. ;rhcsn of' course Wf!re times during which those too ignorant to see the Truth -by Urn way I have never understood the use of' capital "T". I guess it is a truer truth -ofihe Catholic church wnn~ shown the error of' their ways. Today, much the samP spirit prevails in the clo­qtwnt dnf'nnsns proffered to support Ex Corde and Urn Truth to which it guidns us. 
I do not mnan to say that thosn who havn writ­ten those articles are murderous dogmatics bm1t on instituting faith at tlrn point or a sword ­nobody uses swords 
anymc;rn. Bather, I should nncouragn intend to say that the studm1ts to learn and hwel of disdain and 
understand Catholic even contempt for those doctrinn. Yup, wn
C:L 
should. But, this is

who do not support the also a univnrsity. a
document, or whose rnporting oven hints at placn to snnk knowl­such a hm1t, is frighton­mlgn in all its various 
·--=-<:lll!lli'.11 and sundry (and

ing. I respect, no, I l11gal) l'orn1s.
applaud the supportms Knowlndgn. broadly 
of Er Corde for the spPaking, is tlrn k11y
strrmgth of tlmir f'aith 
to lrun f'ni11dom. It is
and their facility in knowlndgo thatexpressing it. I also allows to sn11 all I.Im

rnspect those who dis­
d10ic11s opnn to us,

agree with Ex Corde. For it is in thl\ emirs!' of' permitting us to mak1\ inl'ornwd (and
these) types of nxchang,is that we as hopPl'ully corr11ct) people and a communi­dncisions, dPcisions 
ty grow, hopd'ully arriv­that shapP tlin l'Olll'S«' of' our livns and our
ing at I.he best possible solution l'or 11II involVPd. m111mt111ilics. (And. 
Al't1•r making these in this rngard. I must ~tatnm(mts, I must add apologize for my to snveral caveats to .--t' .-....., ... ,,-. , • ~ ignorance rngarding protect myself from two ,l--..~ , c;j/ ! Hx Corde.) Aaron. 
;,,~ , ·-, ;..;_·} :i.--.. this is why "autono­
ohvious points of attack. First. I do not pret1•nd to _,. t;;> ·"<-'.· ~ U .._/:,· my and f'rnndom" in 
---~·-· -··-···--------··-------' acadnmy am to lw
know enough about tlrn 
act.ual docunwnt to makn an informnd judgnwnt about the prudnnce ul' its application. Second, by admitting a rcspnct for prol'oundly dissimilar points of' viPw I do not thcrnby prodaim myself a rPlativist (a moniker meriting 1:aning in somn circfos on campus). Hatlwr, I must rniteratc. I fin<I the argumnnl.ation ol' t.hosn in l'avor of' /;.r r:ordc disturbing in its tnnor nml implications. 
Mr. Klwria.ty writes that. "WP hav11 classns"'fm l'ailh and mason sido hy sidn with postmodern c·oursl's in gcndnr studies and Marxist liberation Llwology. Sonwthing is amiss; J::1: Corell' is tlrn rrm­Nlv." I am nol sum oxactly what is amiss othnr lh:tn Llw implication that w1• noc<I to rid oursPlv11s iii' courses such ,L'i Marxist lib11ralion tlrnology. Whil11 onn may lind thn eontonts of Marxist libora­lion theology misguidPd. to proclaim that such 1:ourscs should not be I.aught is antithcti,·al to thn pursuit of our capital "T" truth. I low is 01m sup­posed to recognize thP beauty of this Shangri•La if' one has nothing to comparn it to? Tlw Church itselr says that tlw Truth should be rnadwd fnw.ly. Ilow is this possibln if' it is tlrn only path opnn to us? Imaginn two dosnd doors, onn locknd and onn unlocked. If a pcrson gons through tlrn unlocked door only aftnr trying the lockml door, one cannot say, in any nwaningful scnsn. that tlwy frnnly chose the unlocked door. Similarly, if' tlrn dofond­ers or Hx Corde had their way and limitnd the cur­riculum to t.hoso classes compatible with Church tnaching, wn would not be frnc as Aaron implins. WI\ would bn shackled. But, wci would not. lw shackled by "tlrn whims of' whatovcr snrular ideol­ogy happnns to lw popular at tlrn monwnt," wo would bn shackInd by tlw whims of' l.lw "faithful" -just ask Ga!ilno. 
In rnsponsn, 01111 may say that this is a Catholic 
univnrsity, and wn 
prized. lwr.ausn with­out tlwrn wn will not. possess t.lw rnquisite knowl­edge to bn truly free. ;\ncl. it is f'r<iPdom that ulti­matnly allows us to fulfill our human powntial as masoning linings. Or. if one wants t.o take it a sll·p furtlrnr. knowlndg11 provid(\S us with tlw rrcndom to align our will with tlrn will of(;od (roaching that big "T" truth). Grantnd this last stPp takns morn than reason, hut it cprtainly cannot bn donn with­out reason. just ask my dog Clancy. 
For thn curious out them. I am not. sum of Clancy's stancn on /fr Corde, hn is tight lippml about thnsn kind of things. Though rnnsidnring his lack of l'IHtsonrcl judgment. if' lw is a supporter of' /fr Corde. hn may ho drnsing an /;';,; Cord<' dis­snntnr down tlw sidnwalk as you rnad this. 
Justin Sandberg Senior (;ovcrnmrnr ~111<.i Economics F<"bruary I0, 1999 
I • • ~ , I I I , , I • I • f I I I I f I t , • I I I , , ' , I ' 1 ' 

page lO 
OBSERVER ----------------Monday, February 15, 1999 
'Payback' without a vengeance? Boo! 
raising Lim question of 
how one stops a guy who 
just will not be stopped by 
anylhing. 
"Payback'' 
Director: Brian Helgeland 
Bul the film fails. just as simply, to f'ulnll its
Starring: Mel Gibson, Maria Bello, James 
promisn. Instead tlrn
Coburn, William Devane and 
movifl is hamslrung 
Lucy Liu 
•
-'!.] J_ (Out of five shamrocks) 
By BILL FUSZ 
Si:ene Movie Cri ric 
"L.J\. Confidential." ''Bulwortb." "The Postman." One of' these three is not like the oth­
ors. 
"Payback" will make it two out of four. 
All of the above films have either been 
directed. written or produced by Brian llclgdand. Some were hits; some were misses. 
throughout by u number of' factors which prownt it !'rom being tho mm noir classic tbat llnlgPland's "L./\. Confidt'ntial" was. or Lhe violent comedy lhal Gibson's "Lethal Wnapon" 
was. Tho movie cannot 
make up its mind about what it wants to be, and so it f'ails to deliver on either promise, much to the waste of Gibson's taltrnt, a.swell as the othm: membHrs ol' this widelv talented cast. 
The slu.;ts themselves are well done ­very pale, stylish and decadent shots uf the Outfit's hotel: n sleazy littfo drug house Portor and his ex-wife used to call home and the ultramod, very fashionable place Porter's love interest, a call-girl named Hosie, inhabils. IL is all very remi­
The most recent will have lo be drnlkcd up as a major miss. 
The plot is simple and easily understood from the trailers alone. Porter (played bv Mel Gibson. "Lethal W,rnpon 4") is a thief who due to a "mishap" in a robbery is owed $70,000 by tho city­wide 'Outfit,' as well as a one-time friend. Val (played by Gregg 
Henry, :·st.~r ,'l're~: lnsurrcctmn ). So Im s going to get it back, no matter what he has to go through; no matter who he ha..'i to kill; no matter who tries lo kill him. It's a fairlv interest­ing if overly simple premise -one guy taking on a whole organization for a petty sum of $70, 000, 

niscent of "L./\. Confidential" -very gritty. Viewers leave the theater feeling a little dirty. wondering how much or the set and the underground rubbed off on them on their way through the lilm. It is a great set­ting and llelgcland tries so hard to make it 
work. 
But this is made completely incongru­ous by the dialogue and the voice-overs. This is just too huge to cover up. Throughout the movie, Porter offers the audience a monologue which alternates between bit­ter and tough. It is the pathetically cliche humor which would have made even "Lethal Weapon 4" 
Photo courtesy of Paramount Pictures shameful. 
Mel Gibson stars in "Payback." 

.lust as a scone would tense up. fill<>d with suspense and drawn­out drama, Gibson would suddont­ly come in with a voice-over, quiµ­pi ng about his money. /\II Urn build-up would foJI like a houso of cards. Tlw audience know l'ortnr would gut his monoy; it knew Purtnr would live another day: it krww Uw Outlit would get Umin;_ And any time that ono of those facts came into doubt, tlrnre was Porter's voice-over with another lame joke lo reassure lhem, and in the procoss, cut the movie down to size. 
One cannot faull the act.ing though. It is really a great cast, and tho wholo way through you cannot holp but be shucked as each new character comflS through the door. Hosie is played by Maria Bello, one of my favorites from "EH" last season as Or. Del Amico. She turns in a stellar pcr­fo rmance as the cliche "hooker with a heart of gold." TogethPr, she and Gibson have scenr,s that rnally move you, including a diner scene so good that Gibson looks 
B ti t 1 · t l 
ogartesque -ia c ass,c oug 1 
guy who occasionally will let his guard down. 
But once again, the comic lines, with their overused; stale quality, arc pep­pered liberally throughout, including one where Porter says, "We made a deal. If she stopped hookin', I'd stop shooting people. Maybe we're both aiming too high." In the end, these miscues make it impossible to take the couple and their noir love seriously. 
As for the men in the black hats, they comprise a star-studded company of William Devane, ("Knots Landing") James Coburn ("The Nutty l'rofossor", "Maverick") and Kris Kristofferson ("Two for Texas", "Blade"). Once again llelgelancl finds a way to lose with a stacked deck. !lather than being present­ed as a team, the trio is rotated through­out the film as the temporary bad guy until they gel killed off, at which point another steps up to take his place. 
The effect is merely to water down sea­soned character actors into working stiffs who just happen to be in Porter's way, as 

Photo courtesy of Paramount Pictures 
Maria Bello and Mel Gibson star in "Payback." 
he works uncnasingly towards his $70,000. Mon who could have been made into real challenges for Porter and instru­ments or suspense become just a l'mv more jack-in-the-boxes who fail to pro­vide any real thrills. 
/\II of this begs you not to SCP "Payback". Yes, there arc explosions ­plenty of them arc nicely done. Yes, there is bloodshed, killings, crooked cops, blownout buildings and drug overdoses. But it is simply a painfully wretched film, made worse only by the fact that occa­sionally one can see what this movie just maybe, possibly, could have been. 
Insider word has it that "Payback" was originally cut much differ'ently, but Gibson, upon seeing the results, tried to force Helgeland to change it. l!Plgeland walked instead and Gibson made tlw changes that h(\ saw necessary to make it a commercial success. 
Voila. the linished product. My suggestion'? Wait for the director's cut on video or DVD. 
¦ OscAR's 1N LOVE w,rn SHAKESPEARE Here's a look at 

Shakespeare in Love's 
near-record 13 Oscar Nominations: 
•Picture 

•David 
Parfitt •Donna Gigliotti •Harvey Weinstein •Edward Zwick •Marc Norman 

• 
Actress •Gwyneth Paltrow 



•Supporting 
Actor •Geoffrey Rush 

•Supporting 
Actress •Judi Dench 

• 
Director •John Madden 



•Original 
Screenplay 

•Marc 
l'iorman •tom Stoppard 

•
Art Direction 

•Martin 
Cbilds •Jill Quertier 


•Cinematography 
•Richard Greatrex 


•Costume 
Design •Sandy Powell 

•Film 
Editing •David Gamble 


•Makeup 
•Li6a We6tcolt .•Veronica Brebner 
•Sound 

• 
Robin O'DonJJgbue • Dominic Lester 

•Peter 
(Uossup · 


•OrJgtnall\'lusical 
or Comedy


S~orec•stepb~n \Varlieck . . 




r------------------------------------------------··-­
~ee11e 
Monday, February 15, 1999-----------------OBSERVER page 11 
¦ VIDEO PICK OF THE WEE!< 

By JENELLE WILLIAMS Sn•n,· Movie• Critic 
( ;niPri is owrything. 
Wlwn 1•v11ry tJ!'rson works for his or h!'r own Sl'lfisll reasons, for his or hnr 11w11 bt-llPri111•11t, Urn SlH'iPty ai; a whole progrnss(!S as WPII. It is PVPry man for hilllS(\!r in tlw Jog-1\at-dog world ur cap­ilalism. lti llw ·sos. whPH Htmganomics 1·011trnllPd thn polilical nrnnomy and the stud.: markl't was chic, mmwy wus reli­gious. Tlw koy lo succc•ss in this capilul­isti,: ,mvirnnnwnt is simplo -!ind the quick1•st way lo tlw lop. 
In "Wall St.rnnL," Bud (Clmrlin Shmm) is playing jusl that -thn gd-rich-quick 
111ak<• Llw big 111011Py. IIii just 11c11ds a lilll<\ help getting started. Tlw mun to provid<' this boost into the 
liig Lim<' is 1101w ollwr than tlw inl'a­
111<111s (;ordon (;Pkko (Mid11wl Douglas). 
But lwl'on~ ll11rl ,:an lw a part or the itllll'I' l'irdP, lw 111usl proVl' ltirnsdf, that is, lw must imprnss. Thus, lw takns an illPg,il risk and provides Gokko with insidP inf'ormation aboul an airline <·rnnpany. 
,\s tlw dollars roll !11, Uud rinds Llw brl'ak !11• lws bPP!l s1•eking. Ill' soon 111:gins ,..,alki11g tlw !'inn lirw lrnt·wo1•n lt>gal and illPgal, all undor tlw supPrvi­
sion ol' his mentor. Gokko. Gekko shows him the stock markot, and in doing so, insights into human naturn. !In shan•s such valuahln lines as, "u baHle is cilher won or lost bnf"nre it's cvnr fought." Soon. Bud finds himself' living llrn good lifo. Ile strnlches llm truth and takes risks, but when he receives a new of'lice and wins the heart of' the beauli­fu I-but-high-main Lon au co woman, DariamHi (Daryl Ilannahl. hn nev1!r con­siders lhe consequences. 
This lilm raisns significant issmis c011­ccrni11g not only business ethics, but lif'c in gnneral. Every man must choose hntwnnn what is right and what is appnaling. Whatever he chooses, he 
must face the conse-


Notice that all three 
"Star Wars" trilogy 
films are among the 
top ten all-time 
domestic box office 
winners. Can the 
upcoming "Phantom 
Menace" make its 
way into the top 
ten? What about 
the number one 
spot? We'll have to 
wait until May 21 ... 
Photo courtesy of 20th Century Fox 
,-Qi~ 


Movie Title 
1. 
Titanic 

2. 
Star Wars 

3. 
E.T. 

4. 
Jurassic Park 

5. 
Forrest Gump 

6. 
The Lion King 

7. 
Return of the Jedi 

8. 
Independence Day 

9. 
The Empire Strikes Back 

10. 
Home Alone 


Source: Associated Press 
Gross Sales 
$ 600. 7 million $ 460.9 million $ 399.8 million $ 356.8 million $ 329.5 million $ 312.8 million $ 309.1 million $ 305.4 million $ 290.2 million 
$ 285.8 million 


Movie Title 
1. 
The Truman Show 

2. 
Out of Sight 

3. 
Blade 

4. 
Lethal Weapon 4 5. 54 


6. 
Rush Hour 

7. 
The Negotiator 

8. 
Six Days, Seven Nights 

9. 
How Stella Got Her Groove Back 

10. 
Armageddon 




Source: Billboard Online 

Movie Title 
1
. Armageddon 

2. 
The Wedding Singer 

3. 
Austin Powers 

4. 
Dr. Dolittle 

5. 
Tekken: The Motion Picture 

6. 
Playboy's Girlfriends 

7. 
The Mask of Zorro 

8. 
Lion King 11 

9. 
The Parent Trap 

10. 
Good Will Hunting 


Source: Billboard Online 

-
,"!"_ 

sdwmt'. ;\ lovahll', frilmd­ly nml 1·.ocky stock l,rok1!r, lw SlH'IHls till' majority or his days calling 1woplc wilh six f'i){llJ'I\ salaries, att<•mpting lo convince tlw111 to purdias1! cnrtain stork -1101 PXactlv tlle gloriuus rarnPr gcmi•rally ass11ciat1·d with "stork hrok1•rs." llis cubicle would make PV<>n Dilbert ,it!alous. and his hussns tn•at him like lw is nolh­ing morP than a pawn in lilt\ tn•ll('h warl'an• that is 
\Vall Stn•Pl. 
But oh. !in has dreams. IIP is going-to lind a way out and up. I I<• is going lo 

Photocourtesyof201hCentUlyFox 
The poster for "Wall Street." 
quences. 
Can he still look himsnll' in the mirror'! Does he still know who his friends are? Is the lifo he is lead­ing truly his own. and not just a means of making money'! 
Bud learns tho bard way that a man can never be som11ono else. lln can never escape who he is. Any attempt to do so will only lead lo failure. 
i\llhough "Wall Strnet" is a bit predictable -the good guys and bad guys 
are a bit clichc and the plot is not all that compli­
cated -the casting and acting arn great. Charlie Simon seoms to fit tlw part of the lowly stock broker from th1\ wrong sidti of town just as well as Daryl Ilannah personil'ies the gor­geous, rich artist. 
Since it was lilnwd in the '80s, tlwrn are SlJlllC humorous aspects as well. Tho music, !'or ono, is typical ol' Urn decadr.. The computers am a joke ­black screened rnlJnitors with glowing grnc•n ligurns. i\nd tlrn coll phones are gigantic, But even though the technolo­gy is out-ol'-dato. this movie most cer­tainly is not. 

- 
Co  1ngSoon  
February 19  
Affliction, starring Nick Nolte  

Office Space, starring Jennifer Aniston and Ron Livingston Jawbreaker, )tarring Rose MaGowen and Rebecca Gayheart Just The Ticket, starring Andy Garcia and Andie MacDowell October Sky, starring Jake Gy!lenhaal and Laura Dern 
February 26 
8MM, starring Nicolas Cage 
B. Monkey, starring Rupert Everett and A5ia Argento 
page 12 The Observer• SPORTS Monday, Fehruary 15, 1999 
¦ AWARDS ¦ fox SPORTS •••ALMOST 
NBA is worth watching 
ByTEDFOX 
Sports Writer 
NBA basketball has bmm back for a little over a week now, and thP l1iagtw that cat­apulted in popularity in the last 10 years is now hoping its fans wore not detorrod by the drawn-out labor disputP. 
Indeed, the NB!\'s modified its slogan refers to thal l'car: it changed from "I love this game!" to "l still love this game!" To which editors at Sports Illustrated responded by splashing the phrase "Should we still love this game?" across its cover. 
Having only bem1 back for a little over a week, it's hard to come lo a definitive con­
-
clusion. But there arc some strong reasons why the world's premierP basketball league will not follow the same slow recovery path that baseball did a few years ago. First of all, there's the hard evidence. On Feb. 5, 
Famers, Karl Malone and Grant Hill and veteran Joe opening night of the short John Stockton -that came 11000000-mars (you have lo 50-game season, sellout dose to dethroning the Bulls hav11 gone to a Pistons gamn crowds packed arenas last year land as an avid at the Palar,e to undPrstand) across the league. Everyone Bulls fan, that's a lot for me appear to h() re-emerging as in Chicago even showed up 

to admit). a f)(JWerful hmm. 

to see a Bulls team that 
Special to The Observer point average and will graduate in Now that you mention it. I This garrn' still se1•ms pret­
hardly resembles the "t.;n­
May from the College of Arts· and think I still am kind or fond ty cool. 
Touch-a-Bulls" that won six
Notre Dame senior women's sor,cer Letters with a degree in psychology. of this game. True, Michael Jordan is 
titles during this decade. 
player Shannon Roxx and senior Roxx, who has volunteered for South Then there's the Los not them anymore. But as 
I guess we might still kind 
track-and-field polf1 vaulter Mike Bend's Headstart program and other Angeles Lakers, picking up Magic .Johnson said on The 
of like this game. 
Brown have beon named 1998-99 Big Notre Dame life skills projects, plans right whern the Bulls left off. Tonight Show last wo11k, th11 
True, you say, but there's
East/TargAt Scholar-Athlete Award to study psychology in graduate The team has a young nucle­focus will now shift more to 
no Michael Jordan anymore.
winners. school. us of All-Star caliber players the teams as wholes. Whicl1 
He was the quintessential
They each will rnceive $2,000 Brown is a three-time Big East pole that could very well establish team will be Hw one to step
spokesman for the game ­
toward graduatn studies. Recipients vault champion and holds the Notre a new dynasty. in and take over the Bulls 
the best player ol' all time, 
of the award are determined by the Dame records in both indoor (17 -6) At the other end of the rnign at the top? Who will 
not just the franchise player 
league's Academic Awards and outdoor (17-3) competition. As spectrum, the Indiana become the !<'ague's new 
for one team. His departure
Committee. the first Irish pole vaulter to ever Pacers sport a veteran line­best player? Could this 
has to hurt the ~BA.
Boxx, a four-ynar monogram win­clear the 17-foot barrier, Brown pro­up in the tradition of the ynar's champion have beatPn 
That could be right. He is 
ner on the Notrn Dame women's soc­visionally has qualified for the NCAA teams that have won all tlrn the Bulls teams of' th11 past"
the best, and the game loses
cer team, was part of the first Notre Championships four times, including recent titles. For them, this Thnre's 50 reg-ular season 
the one person whom every­
Dame team to win four consecutive this year when he cleared 17-2 3/4 at could very well be the last games and th11 playoffs to 
one wanted to watch, 
Big East championships. The three­last weekend's Meyo Invitational. shot at winning it all before answnr those questions, and 
regardless of his or her
time all-Big East selection finished The Ilancho Santa Fe, Calif., native the hands of time strike mid­NBA Inside Stuff promises to 
favorite team. But that
her career at Notre Dame with 39 also has excelled in the classroom night and the trophy turns have som<J memorable
doesn't mean the excitement
goals and 57 assists for 135 points, with a 3.456 grade-point average in into a pumpkin. And, in the moments during "Hewind." is gone. 
eighth most in Irish history. pre-professional studies and will Eastern Conference Finals I don't plan on celebrating 
Boxx played in every game of her attend dental school aftflr graduating For instance: Three future last year, they extended the another Bulls title this year, career, starting % of 101 games, and from Notre Dame. The six-time All­Hall-of-Famers, Charles Bulls even farther than the but that's OK. helped her team to an 89-8-4 record Big East selection is active in a num­Barkley, Scottie Pippen and Jazz did in the NBA Finals I still love this game.in those games. She earned Soccer ber of community programs spon­Hakeem Olajuwon, compose (and that's pretty hard for America freshman All-America hon­sored by the University's life skills the starting frontcourt for me to admit, too). 71w views expressed in ors as a starter on Notre Dame's the HouslOn Rockets. 
department and is one of 28 student­Even rny homfl-state this column are those ofthe 1995 NCAA national championship ath letfls who participate in Notre There's the same Utah Detroit Pistons. under the author and nol necessarily team. The Torrance, Calif'., native has Dame's Academic Honors Program. Jazz team -led also by a those of The Obseruer. 
leadership of superstar

compiled a 3.11 cumulative grade-pair of future Hall-of-



The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to .3 p.m. ar the Norrc Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
Classifieds 

The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves 1he right ro edit all classifieds for content withom issuing refunds. 
232-2595 PLE FREE INFO 1-800-488-8828 needs. -OFP WWW.SANDPIPERBEACON.COM Call today for immediate service! 
ID 3HF;~;;~D

L,..__N_O_T_Ic_E_s_ __,J J NICE HOMES FOR NEXT (219)243-7785 Emily-SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF NO Room $275/mo in large house 2 You are going to the SYR. Get Spring Break Bahamas Party . 8,6A,3-BEDROOM 277-3097 miles from ND. 246-0704 used lo it. Cruise' 5Nights $279! Includes CRUISE SHIP EMPLOYMENT 
I PERSONAL 

Meals & Free Parties! Awesome Workers earn up to $2,000+/month '99-'00 LOADED! 6 Bedrm. $800 Wow -my lirst night reading. Scary. 
FOR SALE
Beaches.Nightlife! Departs From (w/ tips & benefits). World Travel' mo. 273-0482/234-3831 I Fax it fast at THE COPY SHOP in Florida! Cancun & Jamaica $399! Land-Tour jobs up to $5,000------------~-LaFortune. FAX Sending and I don't know what they teach them springbreaktravel.com $7,000/summer. Ask us how1 BED 'N BREAKFAST NEW Rates Phone Cards Receiving: 631-FAX1 out in rural Iowa. but, OK, wow 1-800-678-6386 517-336-4235 Ext.C55842 REGISTRY 282 min. $20 call 258-4805 
219-291-7153 THERE SHOULD BE A LAW Joe K. · Spring Break Panama City $129! ADOPT:Help us make our family Beautiful brass bed, queen size, AGAINST ANYONE WORKING IN Another classilied for you and your Boardwalk Room w/Kitchen Next complete. Let us give your newborn 5 & 6 BDRM HOMES. 1999/2000, with orthopedic mattress set and A BUILDING BELOW GROUND roommates (some of whom I saw at To Clubs! 7 Parties-Free Drinks! a loving.happy home and a wonder­SUMMER OR NOW. NEAR CAM­deluxe frame. New ,never used.still LEVEL. the Lyons/Alumni formal on Daytona $149! South Beach $129! ful future. Expenses paid. Please PUS. FURN. GILLIS PROPER­in plastic. $235 Saturday). Hope your day·s going Cocoa Beach $149! call Lucille and Michael 1-800-468-TIES. 272-6551 219-862-2082. And the band played on .. well. springbreaktravel.com 9311. -Red 1-800-678-6386 HOUSE OR ROOMS AVAIL NOW. laptop pc computer. ..ethernet, cd At least until they were all exploded 
Customer Service Rep for a major 272-6551 rom and floppy drive, pentium into little tiny bits ..... Antonio hai i pantaloni sporchi. How Green is Green? insurance company in South Bend. processor, modem. Perfect for writ· 
Excellent communication skills House for Rent. ing papers and web access from Tutti amano i pantaloni sporchi Work in Ireland on a Student Work needed, Property/Casualty license Two Blocks from campus. your room or anywhere. 2 yrs old ACOUSTIC SENSATIONS' d'Antonio. Abroad Program and find out! preferred but willing to train. Available in June for Summer. $550. call matt @273-9795. 
10 hrs/wk to become FT. August for fall. Dishwasher. Matt Curreri & Josie Vodicka A long time ago, in a galaxy far, tar Gall 1-888-Gouncil and ask for Call John at (800)624-3698 ext. Washer/Dryer, full basement. large guitar effects processor. Boss ME-away .. Tom. 248. backyard, and off street parking, 8: heralded as best midpriced LIVE at Dalloway's Coffee 
MONITORED SECURITY SYSTEM effects board. chorus. dist. rev, House... Wed, Feb 17. Don't miss This is a shout out to my two bud­CANCUN. BAHAMAS Local Attorney/GPA looking for INCLUDED!! KITCHEN BEING wha, harmonizer, and many other ii! dies who I spent a total of 14 hours PANAMA CITY undergraduate/graduate to work REMODELED THIS SPRING1 CAIi effects. great cond w/ case. $200. with on Saturday. You guys rock Get FREE PARTIES with USA part-time with flexible hours. 289-4712 call matt at 273-9795 Got diversity? and did I mention that I look good. Spring Break' Interested persons should call 273­Call 1-888-777-4642 to book 2118 to set up an interview. FLORIDA SPRING BREAK John, check out Lindsay's bruises! I There is nothing better than your trip today' Lawnboy snowblower, excellent did good! Lightouse Place. SANDPIPER-BEACON BEACH condition.FOR RENT RESORT PANAMA CITY BEACH Best offer. Call at 277-3501 (even). SS -Anytime you wan! the plastic By the way, I saw this event coming FLORIDA FROM $159 PER PER­chair, just come on over. since September even if you didn't.
ILOST & FOUND I 

WALK TO SCHOOL SON WorldNet Comp 
2-6 BEDROOM 3 POOLS 1 INDOOR POOULAZY Got a clunker of a computer? LAO· Thanks for the roses-:) Missing... If anyone has found a STARTING $185 MONTH/PER­RIVER RIDE HUGE BEACHSIOE Need an upgrade or repair? After a Sunday like this, Monday's Superman Necklace, please return SON HOTTUB SUITES UP TO 10 PEO-We've got all of your computing gotta look better! 
r-------------------------------------------­
Monday, February 15, J999 The Observer• SPORTS page 13 
¦ FOOTBALL 
¦ WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Players get invite from NFL 
Belles stung by 
Special to The· Ob,crv<r 
Six s1•11iors l'rom thn I 1)98 Noti·1• Dami' f'ontball squad hav1• !11•t>11 i11vit1•tl ln participatP in f!H· Natior111l f•ootlrnll l.1•a~11l'·s C:omhi1w Timing anrl T1•sti11~ h•l1. IH-22 at llw HCA lhlPllf' in lndiannpolis. Ind. 
TraVl'ling lo Indianapolis will ht• taill,urk i\111ry Dt>11so11. 011l­sidP li111•b11rkP1; l\orv Minor. o!Tt•nsiw !a!'ldt• I,ukP h•titgo11L. 111T1•11sivc-tackli· \like• H11st>11lhal. punlPI' I ltmf Pr Smith and of'1',m­siv1• gunrrl IP1Ty v\'isrH'. 
h·om l.at11!Prhill. !·la,, l>Pnson l'iuislil'{! his ,·an•Pr as NofrP 1);1m,•'s ,,11-lillw IPad1·r ln rnsli­ing with 4.:ll8 yards 1111d thrcn­s!raighl 1.1100-yard s,•asons lhis ''JK tol:tls \WrP 1.1 'i' h yards 011 
l:1 f l'arriPsl. flt• f'ill'llf'<I Sf'cond­ll·am ,\11-i\nwrira honors in '98 from t hn i\ssorialt>d l'rt•ss. 
Minor. from LaVPrrw. Calif' .. slart,·d all 1'011r s1•ason;; hc1 play11 tl at NotrP llanw. 4fi ga!llPS in all. 111• finislwd with 
24:i !.add1•s, 21 lack!Ps !'or loss­I'S, 22 1/2 s1u·ks -including r,o l:tl'k!f'S /IS a !Wllior in '1)8. 
From (;t'tll'gdnwn. lhd .. l'('fitg-11111 s111rwd his Inst. two sPasons at nlTPnsivn tackll', 11p1•Hi11g-in 2] strnii;hl g-anws to l'inish out his Irish canwr. IIP playPd a ma,ior role• in Not.rl' 
in Snulh Bend. From Slwrrnan, TP-xas, Smith

I) a Ill I'. s I'() s ll r gI' n l r ll ll ll in g 
ganw for ' 1JX that avPra~Pd 212.:'i yards pPr ganw. 
averaged 41.7 yards per kick in '<J8 and finished number two onl!11s1•11thal, who hails from Notrn Dame's all-tinrn punting

(;ra11g1•r, Ind., won first-tParn .\I1-/\nwrirn honors in '{JX from 
list with his 41.2-yard earner av<•ragt\ 011 17 4 kicks. I le alsot!w ',\'a!tr•r Camp Foundation kirkPd off in '98 and worked as

and St'f'OIHl-ll'am honors l'rom a backup quarl('rhack.
tlw /\ssof'ialt>d f'n•ss. I It• st11r!1•d :Vi ganll'S OV!'I" his four St'HSOl1S 
Wisne. l'rom Tulsa, Okla,. 



Yellow Jackets, 99-83 
By DANA KIDNEY Sporrs Wl'iter 
The Saint Marv's Belles played a dose first half against Defiance Sunday afternoon. but the Yellow Jackets snuck back In thf' SHtonrl half' and took thn game, 99-83. 
In their last meeting, tnp­rank<1d Defi;rncP dorninati,d tlw Belles, winning by 40 points. 
Sunday's game was a much closer competition. and Saint Mary's even lod 42-41 at half­time. 
The players remained opti­mistic about tho llash,is of bril­liance from the first half of play. 
"Wr. came out rnnlly intense becauso wo knew we had noth­ing to lose. but everything to prove. N f'reshman Mary Campione said. "That's how wo played today, and I think today was just a glimpse of what the future is going t.o bring for tho Saint Mary's basketball pro­gram." 
Sophomore Julie Norman broke the scoring record, which stood at 37 points. by scoring 21 in the first half and ending the game with a total of 38 points. 
~1 couldn't even believe it when they told mo," Norman said. "I didn't think I was oven close to above 37 points, but I couldn't have done it without the other girls. They kept set­ting up the shots for mP and gave me some great opportuni­
lins." 
With Saint Mary's nmkml last in the conference. tlw Belles stayr,d dose and gave Orl1anco a good game. 
But D1ifiancP wtint on a three-point strm1k wi1h six 111in­11tos left in thr pr.riod that comC'nted its victory. 
"Wo playnd really good as a team tonight," said sophomore Cortney Litka. "We rnally rnmc tog<HhBr and WI-\ had a lot of l1111m spirit, and ,wcryonn vvas up for the game." 
Coach David Hooder said that the ganrn was a big succHss, dcspitl' the fact that it was 11 loss. 
"Dof'ianco is a tough team. and our girls stnppnd up and gave them a good game," ho saicl, noting that tJrn Bolles playnd a compPtitivn garnn against a tough and oxpnri­enced team, 
Said snnior Char Alhrighr, "It was very exciting as a senior to play that way, especially at the end, because we hnvf1 been down all year. It was fun to come back and play such an exciting game as a team." 
Added Norman, "WP camn out and we fought hard to get back into it. Defiance is just an amazingly awnsnnw 1.m1m, but our team fought hard and real­ly our team clicl a great job today overall." 

-
started tiach of his last two sea­sons at Notre Dame, opnning in 25 games overall over three seasons. 
Denson. Minor. Petitgout, Hosp,nthal and Wisnn all wnrn invited to play in tho Senior Bowl, while Smith participatnd in the inaugural /\II-Star Gridiron Classic in Orlando, Fla. 
To the Queen: 
V-Day and B-Day all in one. Who needs a sweetheart when 

STARBUCKS COFFEE the perfect complement 
hot or iced 
Espresso Cappucino Caffe Latte Caffe Mocha 
all espresso drinks 
10% off 
now through 2-21-99 


you are 21! 
The Gang 
There are still spots open on the Novice Men's Crew Team for this Spring 
Come try the sport out at a 
ROWING CLINIC Monday, February 15th 
7:30 PM 

Rolfs Sports Recreation Center, Classroom (by the main entrance) 
No rowing experience necessary; wear workout clothes 
For further information, call Mark Mangelsdorf. 255-1449 

page 14 The Observer• SPORTS Monday, February 15, 1999 
¦ MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Irish fall despite rally, 85-80 
Freshman sensation 
Murphy registers a career high of32 points 
By BILL HART Assistant Sports Editor 
Despite another impressive rally and out­standing play from freshman Troy Murphy, thn Irish could noi sustain their momentum Sunday and dropped an 85-80 heartbreaker to West Virginia. 
The Irish fought back from a deficit that was as high as 19 points with 12:00 left in the second half; Murphy and his team took a one-point lead with three minutes remaining in the gamt>. 
But the \1ountaineers were able to fend off two Irish possessions that threatened to makr the visitors' lead even further. As it turned out. a lay-up by Elton Scott with 50 seconds left turned into the winning basket, giving the home team a lead .it dirtn't rc,lin­quish. 
Jarett Kearse then hit a pair of free throws to give West Virginia a five-point margin, but two free throws by Ingelsby made it a 83-80 game with 13.8 seconds left. 
Thi' Irish had one last chanre to tie it up whim a cross-court pass went out of bounds with possession of the ball and 10 seconds on the clock. But Ingelsby's three-point attempt foll short and Goree grabbed the rebound. lie was quickly fouled and hit both free-throws to put the game out of reach. 

Murphy led both teams in scoring with 32 points on ().of-18 shooting. He also went 12­for-15 from the charity stripe and grabbed 16 boards, earning another double-double. The rookie sensation registered the best game of his collegiate career. 
Senior Antoni Wyche and freshman Harold Swanagan barked Murphy up with 14 and 11 points, respectively. 
On the other end of the court, Goree fin­ished with a team-high 27 points, while Scott chipped in with 21 of his own. Kearse, the major perimeter threat ror the Mountaineers, went 3-5 from beyond th(• arc and had 13 points on the afternoon. 
The Irish never found a way to gflt past the pesky West Virginia defense, which picked up 13 steals and forced 18 turnovers overall. With tlrn victory, thfl Mountaineers snap a four-game winning streak and improve to 10-15 on thf' season and 4-11 in the Big East. Meanwhile the Irish fall undm· the .500 mark at 12-13 overall and 6-8 in conference play. 
Notre Dame will be back in action later on this week when it travels eastward to take on ronferenre rival Syracuse. The contest between the Irish and the Orangemen is set to tip off on Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. 

Freshman Troy Murphy led Notre Dame with 32 points against the Mountaineers in Sunday's loss, 85-80. 
Internship Information Meeting for 
ACCION micro-lending program in 
Albuquerque Chicago El Paso New York City San Antonio San Diego 


JPW CELEBRATE GOOD TIMES JPW 

The collection for the Junior Class Mass on 
Saturday, February 20 at 5:30 will be held 
at J.PW Ticket Pickup. This is a unique 
opportunity for the Class of 2000 to come 
together as classmates, friends, and mem­
bers of the Notre Dame family by reaching 
out to the community that surrounds us. 
We invite you to come give with open 
minds and hearts to those who are in need. 
All money collected will be given to 
Dismas House. 
JPW CELEBRATE GOOD TIMES JPW 


#6 Women's BaskJ 
vs.
..a.& 
VARSITY SHOP

.., syraa.=-­

..a.& 
VARSITY SHOP
.., 


\londay, Pebmary 15, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page IS
-------------------~-~-----~~-=-----c::....=..:=---cc...:;.:...---==----=------=--:::...:...::....=.___________________ 
¦ HOCKEY 
Ferris State halts Notre Dame's home win streak 
Irish drop two heartbreakers in weekend play 
Hy TED HASSAN! 
,pore~ Writer 
ln tlw 1111Hh~r11 ,•ra of' Notre Damr• ho<'.k1•y, no Irish loam h 11 d ,, vH 1· ll" P n sh ll t o II l on hark-lo-hark nights 11r in Lwo rons1i1·11 Iiv1• con fnn111r.-gamns. 
Bl'iif'VP it or not, that is Px,u·tly what hap111•1wd this past. w1•1\kr•11d as th,~ sixth­rankPd Notrn Danw l10ck1~y tP11m lost two straight 1-il d,•!'isions. 
011 Fricluy, it was l\1ic:l1iga11 Stall' and goalt11 1Hlnr Jon Blarkhuni al Munn lni Arnna in 1-:asl Lansing. Saturday nigh L. Not r1i 1)11 mP 's 12-ganw unlwatnn st.rPak 1111 honw icP i:amn to an PTHI thanks to a hrillianl dPl'Pnsiv1i pl'rl'or­man1·n bv l;crris Stall' and go111lP1Hlt;r Vinet• Ow1'11, who stop p Pd a 11 '.~ X 1\1 o trn ll a m P shots. 
Tlw NoirP Damn-Michigan Stall' mat<·h-up Friday f'<ia­llln·d raut.inus play in the lirst 1wriocl. 1witlwr t1iam takin~ any d11111<·Ps with risky passes or rancy plays. 
Michigan St.alp's lrnttl1\ plan was to holtl1• up tlw Irish at <'Plllt'r icP with somP 1·lutch­a11r!-grah dt>!'Pnsiv<\ hockey. Although SlJ('h a stylP is diffi­cu It and f'ruslrating to play agai11st. said junior .Jon 
ll11shalwk, tlwn• is  a  wav  to  
!H'al iL  •  
" T It ,.  w a ~·  yo u·n• go iII g  to  
!wat that !styli• of' play!  is  to  

mov1• th1• pr1<·k through tlw nnutral zonP and usn your spPPt!; takl' tlH' dnf'Pns<'mcn widP and crPalP !'.hanct!S off tlw rush." llusbalwk said. 
Bu I ,. vI\ n w !w 11 1lw I r is h t:011lr! form tlw Spartnns into 
1wnaltins with thnir speed. limy had to race tlw nation's top pmrnlly-killing unit, whioh killt>d off all thnHi NotrP Dame power plays. Suell a d<ifonsive­miml11d game, said MSU coach Hon Mason, plays right into his t11am's hands. 
"W11'v11 been in a lot of gam(\ s like this th is ye a r, " Mason said. "It's our styln of game and wn f'1wl coml'ortabln in llrnm and wn usually win tlwm. W11'v11 hoen vnry good dPl'1•11siv1•ly. loading tlrn nation lin goals-against!. and of' cours11 that goos hand-in-hand with iwnalty-killing." 
,\ftnr a brisk l'irsl p11riod. tlw sncond pnriod was just thn oppositP, with lots of whistlns and sLOppag~s as tlrn result of scrums and ywnalties. 
"The skirmishns occurred lrncuuso guys worn ii;oing to tlrn 11111. rnally hard ... ·. Both gamn:,; W(i'vc pl,1y1\d against thmn have b1rnn d1ian, tough gamns," said Irish lrnad coach Dav11 Poulin. 
Tlw only goal of U111 r.ontns1 was aptly labelod by Mason as "a lrnauty." .Just aftnr a strong 1wnalty kill latP in the second pnriod, Mike York uncl Bryan /\dams brokti in two-on-onn against tlw Irish. York slid a pass to /\dams, which Im smoothly chippnd ovnr Forrest Karr's shoulder f'or the goal. 
"That's our two top players o!Tn nsivnly combining; York mad1• a great pass and Bryan /\dams is so fast lw was abln lo gPi opr.n," Mason said uftlrn play. "Yo11 don't blanrn any­body 011 a goal lik<' that, what you do is giv11 crl'dit to tlrn of'fonsiv1• playr.rs." 
Onn star of tlw ganw for thr. Irish was goaltender Forrest Karr, who slop1wd 24 of 25 shots in a losing nlTort. 
In thr. game against Ferris State. which may havn bnr.n llw higgor gamo of thn wnek-
ElectionsI 
,JJ Freshman, Sophomores, and Juniors interested In running for class office 
OR 
Any students interested in running for 
off campus co-President or off campus senator 
for the I 99-I 00 school year 
MC asked to attend an informational meeting on 
Tuesday, February 16 at 7:30 PM in the student Government office in Lafortune. one member ~m each ticket should attend. Ifyou arc unable to attend, or have any questions, please contact Nicole Borda, Judicial council Vice President at 631-4SS6. 
bm•8"•1oyou~ Judicial Council 

1•1HI in terms of the conference standings, the Irish came out flat. Perhaps it was a men­tal Int.down following Friday night's clash, or pnrhaps it was a mat­t1H" of' fatigue. 
"In hockny you got onn timnout in a game and I considtirnd taking mine two minutes into tho game lrncause tho mi ndsnt wasn't thnrn," l'oulin said. 
Like Michigan State tlw night boforn, Ferris Slate made tho gamn difficult for Noire Dame's forwards in tlrn nr.utrnl zone. .1\lso, just likf1 tlrn Spartans, Fnrris Statn's pnnalty­killing unit did tlrn job, killing all snvnn Irish powur plays. 
For lhn wnnkcnd, Notre Dame's power play unit. tho best in the CCIIA by far, went a com bincd 0-for-1(). 
"Mavbo we'vn been rnlying on Itho power play] too much lately," Dusbabck said. "We have to start creating chances fivn-on-five and winning games that way. Your power play isn't going to scorn evnry night; you can't expect it to." Senior Aniket Dhadphale tried to provide an offensive spark in this weekend's 
The only goal Notre contest but the Irish offensive unit was shut out in both of this weekend's games. 

Dame allowed came on nno of' Fnrris State's eight pownr plays, wlrnn thn Bulldogs wnrn skating five-on­thrnn in thn sncond period. Defonsnman .Jim Dube took a pass from Hob Collins at the top of the rar circle and shot the puck just und(~r the cross­bar for the game-winnnr. 
Thn standout player or the game was certainly Bulldog goaltender Vince Owen, who made 38 savr.s on the night, with 15 of thnm coming on Notre Dame's seven pownr plays. The save of tlrn gamn came at the end of the second period, when he stopped a streaking Aniket Dhadphale to preserve thn lead for his tnam. 
After the two losses, Notre Dame remains in fourth place, but now Forris State is just 
Please recycle The Observer. 
one point lrnhind t.lrn Irish f'or thn lasl honrn-icn spot. Morn importantly. Fnrris Statn. by lwating tlrn Irish two ou I of throe on tlrn ynar, will have thn tin-brnaker ndgn against Notrn Damn should it comn down to that at snason 's mul. 
¦ SPORTS BRIEFS 
WOMEN'S HUNNING 
CLUB -For all those who profor companions to tho treadmill, the Women's Bunning Club is open to runners of any lnvel at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. They are intent upon enjoy­ing tlrnir workouts as they explore running route's around ND, Saint Mary's, and in-South Bnnd. Call Rene at 4-2710 or Jenny at 4-2914 with questions. · 



RICHARD GLAZIER pianist 
RAGTIME &ROMANCE: JOPLIN AND GERSHWIN 
Tuesday, Feb. 23, 1999 • 7:30 p.m. 
MOREAU CENTER-Mo~()
LITTLE THEATRE (55:,,...,]J/}.. 

!'or ticket information, rnn!acl tht• Saint Mary's box oftic~ (219) 284-4626 
• 
page 16

-
,.. 
Monday, February 15, 1999 

The Observer• PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Abortion, euthanasia and capital punishment demean the lives of countless individuals in·our society. 
Gather with us in Eucharistic Adoration to prar for an end 

to the culture of death. 


"/ make a holy hour ,qach day in the presence of Jesus in the Blesse~'§,~crament. All my sisters of the Missionaries of Charity make a daily holy hour as well, because we find that through our daily 1wly Jzour our love for Jesus becomes more intimate, our love for each other more understanding, and our lovefor the poor more compassionate... " 

-MolherTeresa 

Spo115ored by Notr~ Dame RiRhl lo Life AMl>G • JMI 

Jesus is here with us in the Eucharist to give us answers-answers 
that will lead us to truth, happiness and peace. In this culture of death, it is easy for people to become weary and indifferent to Cod and His gift of life. People often fall short of their obligation to care for and nurture the spiritual and physical lives of themselves and oth­ers. Eucharistic Adoration gives a person the opportunity to nunure 
his own spiritual life, as well as the spiritual lives of others 
( through prayer for them.} Prayer also protects the physical 
lives of those endangered by abortion, eutbanasia and 
other forms of violence. It is only through the grace which 
comes from prayer that others' hearts can be cl1anged from seeking death to loving life. Christ gives us the strength to press on in our battle for life. In order to be Christ-like in our service 
to preserve life, we must be filled with His life·through prayer. 
We ask you to join us in prayer for life at Eucharistic Adoration. 
What is Eucharistic Adoration? 
G0d is present to us in many Ways in our. world, but I le is especially present to us in the Eucharist. As Roman Catholics, we believe that Jesus Christ, who lived 1000 years ago, is truly present in the Eucharist. In Eucharistic Adoration, the Host is placed in a monstrance, in order for us to be able to come and pray. Jesus is always hidden in the tabernacle, but in adoration Ile is exposed so that we can come and kneel before Him, face to face, and speak with God. When Jesus is exposed like this, lie can never be left alone. Thus, people sign up to be responsible to come and pray with Him for a certain amounl of time {usually 1/i-l hour) every week. 
Why should I go? 
IfJesus were to come to the JACC, wouldn't you come and stand in line for hours just 
to talk to Him for a minute? Even if you weren't Christian, wouldn't you be at least 
interested in this God so many people talk about? Well, Jesus is truly present here on · campus-in the Eucharist. IN ADORATION YOU HAVE THE OPPORTUNl1Y TO GO 
AND SPEAK WITH GOD FACE TO FACE. You can confide in Him, plead with Him, 
question Him. And if you sit quietly enough, He will inspire you with answers. 
What do I do when I am there? 
When you enter the chapel, you should genuflect as a sign of reverence to Jesus. It is 
common practice during Adoration to genuflect on two knees, instead of just one 
(like you do whenever you enter a chapel.) You can stand, sit, or kneel-whatever 
helps you pray. And then you pray.11me are many ways. to pray: you can do spiritual 
reading; you can pray a rosary; you can sit in silence; you can even just talk to Jesus­
like you would to a friend. The most important thing is that you love llim and allow 
Him lo love and strengthen you. 
What does the Church think? 
"Exposition of £he Blessed Sacrament, whether in a pyx or a monstrance, is arecogni1ion of the wondrous Presence of Christ in the sacrament and stimulates us to unite ourselues lo I-Jim in a spiritual communion. It is, accordingly, eminemly in harmony with the worship which we owe I-Jim in spirit and truth ... " 
-1'0~1-Conciliar {Vatican 11) Document, S.C.D.W. 

EUCHARJSTIC ADORATION ON CAMPUS: 
FRIDAY: Blessed Mary Chapel in the Basilica: 12:00pm (following 11 :30am Mass) -5:00pm with a Rosary beginning at 4: lSpm. (Ends with Benediction at 4:45pm) 
MONDAY beginning at 11:30pm (following 11:00pm Mass) through TUESDAY at 10:00pm (Ending with Benediction at 9:45-10:00pm) In Fisher Hall Chapel. 
.. 

..---------------.......------------------,-__,..--~---~--~-.. ....-------,~-------,---~,--,-.--,--.....--..--,ff I Mond.1v. l~•·l-iruary 15, 1999 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
I I j I I## I I 1 ,---,~---,-,:--------;---_. -­

Bouts 
continued from page 20 
m1tt1·hes in a live-day 1wriod. ·1 his scheduln lraVl\S hoxors l1ltlc tinw lo rPcnvnr and pro­parl' for their nr.xt fight. 
"It gl'ls tough by the nnd of tl11· W<Wk," said LaDuke. "Wn nity to watch game film on the Irish. From what he saw ­namely the Michigan game from this past September -Hogcrs is optimistic about the diversity which .I ackson brings to an offense. 
Hogers plans on implnnwnt­ing an offense which showcas­es the talents of the fifth-year quarterback and will feature multiple groupings and forma­tions. 
"We're going to put as much 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 

DANCE WORKSHOP PRESENTS 
So You Think You're Irish... It's Time to Test Your Heritage... 



NK<.\ ~ 
New student works & perfonnance improvisation 
Fri~ Feb 19 at 8 p.m. • Sat., Feb. 20 at 8 p.m. • Sun~ Feb. 21 at 2:30 p.m.
O'laughlin Auditorium
~·tL [PffiliilfD©~tf'® [D)~, 

TICKET ORDERS BY PHONE: 219/2844626 MOREA-0 
Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's College Box Office ~EN'TJ!'R, /
.LJ:fl1lh1tFar:B~1tw~·~~~(d)® 'lf;;.@~~ril (C©ffilir®®it 
in O'Laughlin Auditorium. open 9 a.m. -5 p.m., ~oR rHE ARrs Monday -Friday. 11onr• DAMa. ,,. 
PEACE CORPS VISITS
•Design a T-shirt for the student body 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
•Submit your entry to Student Government 
INFORMATION MEETING 
Center for Social Concerns 
(203 LaFun) 

Tuesday, February 16, 6:00 p.m. 
•Anticipate winning great prizes 

FIRESIDE CHAT 
LaFortune, Motrc Dame Room
•See students wearing your design all 

Wednesday, February 17, 1 :00 p.m. 

INFORMATION TABLE
around campus 

Hcsburgh Library Lobby Tuesday, February 16 
9:00 a.m. -3:30 p.m. 
Designs due February 17th 
~ 

(800) 424-8580 
www.peacecorps.gov
Call 1 • 7668 for more details 
try to have it at the JACC so we have to work with their schedule.'' 
This does not leavti the box­ers at a big disadvantage. however, because they all must compel!\ under the same conditions. 
"At first I didn't like tho idr.a ofit," said Murphy of the five­dav schedule. "But I was sur­on the quarterback's back as we possibly can and then we're going to tnach it again. They'll get better and bett1\r at it," said Hogcrs. "It's a complicated system but it's one that I'm going to work real hard to try to ke1q> as much of th1! verbiag,~. as many of the plays nnd kind of augment thn offense that's already in place." 
for proof that tlrn system works, Hogi)rs citns the recont succnsses of' his Syracuse! teams as wnll as c;oorgia T1\ch, which Irish fans rrmPmber from tlrn (;at.or Bn w I. II c Im I i 1w n s t h a t t lw divr,rsc offnnsP, foaturing six to 10 option plays a gamP as well as running and passing, is the futun~ of collcgn f'ool­ball. In orclnr to run this of'f'cns1i, 11ognrs again notnd tlrn impurtancP of' having a multi-faceted quarterback. 
" I re a II y lrn I iti v n th at. t h e wav1~ of' tlrn f'utur«! is going to Im tho alhlntil--style quartnr­back that not only can drop back anc.1 throw and run tlw option hut a !so a guy who ran drop hark and rrPal!~ a play wlwn things don't go as dia­grammed." said Hogt\rS. 
\otrp l>anH' will bn busy in tlw next fnw wonks in trying to !'ill a fow morn va1·anc-ins in its staff. Quartnrharks rnad1 Mike Sanford (San llingo Chargnrs rncnivPr's l'.nach) . secondary coach Tom McMahon (Colorado's co­dnfpnsive coordinator) and ddnnsivP !inn coach Charlin Strong (South r.arnlina's dPfonsivn coordinator) havn all lnl'I tlw program in tlw off snason. 
Hognrs may also s1HV(! as quarterbacks coach. hut 110 official announcPnwnt has yl'l lrnnn madn. 
-
..,. 
.. 
...... 

prised. It's worked out well." 
The boxers will be divided into weight classes of eight competitors. The quarterfi­nals, held on Feb. 22, will nar­row the field to four competi­tors in each class. The semifi­nals on Peb. 24 will send two boxers from each class to the finals on Feb. 26. 
Football 
continued from page 20 
leading the way, the Orangcmen averaged 42.5 points per game, setting school and Big East confer­ence records as well as rank­ing third in the country. 
Rogers had limited opportu­




page 18 The Observer• SPORTS Monday, February 15, 1999 
¦ IRISH INSIGHT

-
Aggressive play stops Irish 
By BRIAN KESSLER nents all season, a f&ct amply Ir Hiley could dominate inside, Assisr.111r Sporrs Editor dPmonstrated by her school­howevor, a Notr() Dame victory record 41-point performance at would probably follow. PISCATAWAY, N.J. Providence. while Rig East Riley got her double-double 
!leading into this weekend's Player of the WePk Sutton­with 12 points and 10 boards, showdown with Rutgers. a lot of Brown was coming olT a great but shP. had to take on more rmphasis was pul on the Ruth week in which she averaged 16 than just Sutton-Brown, who fin­HilP,·-Tamn11 Sutto11-Brown points and sPven rebounds in ished with 11 points and seven m1n:-1111p in ilw paint. Hiley h,1s two road victories over Miami rebounds. Belgium-native Dana b1•1•11 ablt• w dominaLP oppo-and Pittsburgh. Roonen drew a rare start and 
was able to keep Riley in check. 
"Dana made a big difl'Prence," said Hulgers head coar,h C. Vivian Stringer, who like Notre Dame's Muffot McGraw is a finalist for this year's Naismith Award. "You might not have seen it in the points. but for us it didn't matter how many points she scored, because she put a lid on Riley and we didn't have to put Tammy on her. We were able to keep her free." 
Roonen finished with a sea­son-high seven rebounds and eight points. Boonen was also a perfect 6-of-6 from the free throw line. 
"We thought she would rebound well and sh() didn't score that much from the field, but she got to the free throw line and CPrtainly eight points is more than we thought she would get," McGraw said. 
Boonen and the rest of aggres­sive Rutgers defensr, swarmed inside, resulting in 10 turnovers lory.Rilev and did not allow the 6-in the Irish 's first 17 possessions. Notrn Dami~ will have to make foot~5 center to control the 
Boonen and Sutton-Brown con­some adjustmm1ts in the next inside. 
tinually swarmed Hiley and took two weeks if it hopes lo fair bet­"Obviously they took us out of 
her out of the game. The sopho­ter at tlw Big East Tournament. 
what we wanted to do," said 
more center was held to just where Notre Dame and HulgersRilPy. who leads the Big East in 
eight shot attempts and looked will most likdy faw each other scoring (19.4), field goal per­
to kick the ball out after being again in the No. 2 vs. No. 3 semi­centage (72 percent) and blocks 
hounded in the post throughout final game. The outcome of that 
per game (2.9). "We didn't play 
the game. game will probably be decided 
the offonse we've played all 
Rutgers was able to keep Riley on the inside as well. year." and the Irish frustrated from Next time, the Irish better "They were real aggressive ­
start to finish and used that to have an answer for Sutton­hands everywhere, bodying up, 
their advantage. The Scarlet Brown and Boonen. pushing around, physical play­
Knights' aggressive style of play while Tammy Sutton-Brown ing -and we didn't come back kept Riley from taking it to the The views expressed in thisB-ball added 11. with it." she added. hoop and limited the Irish to a column are those ofthe author The Irish shot just 28 percent The Irish looked to go to Riley season-low shooting percentage, and not necessarily those ofThe from the field in the second half. early on but forced the ball resulting in a 77-57 Rutgers vie-Observer. 


continued from page 20 
weren't able to contain [Tasha) Pointer and that was the differ­ence in the game," McGraw said. 
Notre Dame closed the gap to 54-48 with 7:28 remaining, but Pointer (15 points, 10 assists) and the Knights went on a 16-2 run and slammed the door on the Irish with 20-of-24 shooting from the free-throw line. 
Linda Miles came off the bench for Rutgers and finished 

.. 
with a team-high 17 points, 
Sheila McMillen led all scorers with 18 points, including a sea­son-high six three-pointers. Ruth Riley had a double-double (12 points, 10 rebounds) and Danielle Green added 11 despite 4-of-13 shooting. 
The loss dashes any Irish dreams of a regular-season con­ference title and keeps Notre Dame (20-3, 12-3) in third-place in the Big East standings. 
Rutgers (22-4 kept pace with UConn and upped its conference record to a formidable 14-1. 

., 
Right to Life and Amnesty International present 
Death Penalty Debate Workshop 

Monday, February 15 
8:30 in the CSC Coffee Room 
"Irish fighting for life!" 


IBATTLE ROYA 


The Second Annual Ethics Week Battle Royale Debate The Ethical Implications of the Nike 
~ Sweatshop Operations ~ 
TAG----TEAM SWEAT: 
Professor Paul Schultz Professor Paula Tkac 
vs. 

TAG---TEAM ANTl--pERSplRANT 
Professor Matt Bloom Professor Oliver Williams, CSC 
REFEREEd by: 
Professor Lee Tavis 

Tuesday, February 16, 1999 
6:30 ~ 7:30 PM Jordan Auditorium 


Everyone is invited to the Tag-Team Debate of the year! Have you ever wanted to drill your professors" Do you want to watch other professors grill each other? Would you like the opportunity to grill your professors 
without it affecting your grade? 
The format consists of a li\'e minute presentation by each professor. and then the floor is open between the professors and the audience for the next 30 minutes. Come see who will be the last team standing. Refreshments and snacks will follow the conclusion of the event. 
..t.:-1. · Brought to you by ~ Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Rehg1ou5, Values 1n Business & s_eP., ~~~~:~J!r!~:r ~!!~~~~~:: Business 
..-----------------------------------,----------------------------~-~~-~--,--,-~,.----,----,--~l' -, 
r-I----.,, • I I--, -1 --, ~~------­
Monday, Fehrnary l '>, 1999 The Observer• TODAY page 19 
LOOKING Tl !ROUGH TIIE WIZARD OF ND DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA I.AST 

FOXTROT  
AND THAT STAR o\lER THERE 1S THE NoRTH $TAR,  AND THAT, IF I'M NoT M1STAl<EN, IS NONE oTHER  
11-IAl'l 11-1 E PLA"'ET JUPITER. 


PoLAR1S. 

[)JI.BF.RT 
I'O LIKE TO SPE.ND T\-IE flR5T HOUR DEFINING WHA.T "INfORMATtON TECHNOLOC,Y'' MEANS. 
.....______
.l...._.t.4....I.----~ 
CROSSWORD 
27 Red-while-and­blue inits. 
ACROSS 

1 Thumb­2a Informationtwiddling bank 
s Leapfrogs 32 Passing notice? 
10-Bator, 
35 King of the Mongolia 

jungle14 Make airtight 
37Whata 111--alime lumberjack (singly) leaves behind 11 ·Cleopatra· 38 River to the Rio backdrop Grande 11 "Yesf" 40 ssw·s opposite 19 Darling 41 Like a haunted 20 Sendak's 
house "Where the Wild 42 Skyward 
Things-4JPersian­21 Composer Sat1e 45 Person to go out 22 Soviet leader 
with Brezhnev 46 Round Table knight
24 Semiautomaltc rifle 48 C.1.O.'s partner 
21 Land of the llama so,1 Skip "Don't move!" 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
S A N G F R 
C L E A R A 
O L F .:.:+.:+-fill~ N T 
~ ~ -+-+--+--< 
R f 
c1 
c s 
-,c-t,T,-,+T=-t 25 "Yes!" ~.:..+::+=c+.:~~+:U±E::-1 26 See 51 -Down -'-4~"+=+'-+'-+:c.f'R-+N-l 2e Coffee break 
E S 


E 
8 
0 @I• 
.. ~ 
"O 
i 
E 
0 
0 
g ~ 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Rolf Benirschk<,, James Spadl•r, David Bryan, Garth Brooks, Miguel Ferrer, Charles Dickens, Gay Tales" 
Happy Birthday: You've wurkeJ hard, and although that isn't going to change, you will start to see some progress for the effort you put forth. You can get the suprort you're look­ing for, but you wil have to ask for help if you intend to reach your goals. Don't lx• afraid or hesitant to get oth­ers to pitch in. They will be ready willing and able. Your numbL'rs: 4, 15, 20, 24, 31. 42 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Cir cumstances regarding your parlnL'r's finances may arise. You will have tu
BILL AMEND 
handle them with kid gloves. He or she will [x, extremL'ly sensitive about I ALWAYS 
any controvl'rsies that yuu bring up. 
000
FoR~ET­
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You
WHAT'S THAT 
can enjoy the company of your mate 
81G CRATER• 
or you can entice m•w ILwers if you get out and socialize. Keep your mind Iopen to new suggestions and listen to 
Pock'ED oRB 
UP Tl-lERE'? 
what others have to propose. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Low can be yours if you get out and 1·0111 in. Travel and L'nt<•rtainmcnt wil be pleasurablt>. Do not get involved in quick money-making sch~m~s You don't stand to make money that way 
000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): An older family member may be going through a difficult time•. Dc111·1 let this person be a burden by ins,stini; th.it 
SCOTT ADAMS you leave your family to take care ot his or her needs. 00000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your Oirt,1­tious rnanner may ha\'t' upset your
001-1 OOH! CAN I 1T'5 NO, A GOOD 
mate If you don't want an out-,,nd­
HELP PA~S OUT THE IOEA TO MIX 

out war on your hands, thl'n you had bettl'r work hard to win your
MATERIA.LS? ENTHUSIASM WITH 5TUPIOITY1 ~SOK. 
i1L.t.J..:-..U.-L............,jt:......l,'f.:Tr' ,.cr-,}--..:z:L---1 
55 Snake-haired woman of myth sa 35-Across's sound 59 -de France 60 Walkie-talkie 
word &, Yes!" 64 Needles· partner 
Wanted: 
&5 Train making all stops 
66 Med school subj 67 Otherwise 68 Manicurist's 

Reporters and 
board 
;$ 
lnVl'T 1s tn1sl. 00 
VlllGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): IM., lives will be upsl'I. You may havl' t .. help them finJ solutions to the1. problems. Don't g1w them cash; g1w them sound advice. Changes regard ing your own self-awareness an· evidl'nl. 0000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Prote.-1 your valuabll's as you're up for los, or thl'fl today. Usl' your discipline to work at bl•ing thl' best that you can Crl'ati\'e <'ndl'a\'ors or .-ducation,11 pursuits should be on your mind 
000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): Depression will set in if things aren't going too well on the honw front. You can lower your financial overhl'ad ii you an• willing to make compromis,•s or lo budgl'I a little tighter. 000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may not Ix• g,•tting the whole pk­tur,•. forret out the hidden intorm,1 11(111 that no om• wanls to tell you. lk careful when dL•aling with authorit1· figures.000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. l'll Little things will set you oft. Try 1wt to lak,• on too much. Financial limit,1­tions will be depressing and restrict y,nir lite styiL'. Look inlc) suitabl, ways of making,•xtra cash. 0000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18) Lc,ok into th,· possibilities of tr,lVL·ling !or knowledge. A SL'minar th.it will provid,• vou with mental stimulation .,nd n1Lltivatk,n will contribute mor, th,111 you think 00 
PiSCES (Feb. 19-March 20): C..,•t busy and do things with childr<'ll You will get great satisfaction from th,, ,1pprc•ri,1ti,1n vou gl'l in return Prnpert1· inn•stnwnts will be prof 1tabl,•. You can l>uy ,,r ,di n•al est.it, today. 00000 · 
69 Optimistic 
DOWN 

photographers.
, Writer Asimov 
2 Actress Winger 
3 Tattoo remover 
4 "Xanadu" rock 
grp. 
5 Diary 
Join The
& Loosen, as a 
knot s1 With 26-Down. a 5S Brood 

rooftop energy 56 Like Darth Vader device 
57 Cub Scout 

Observer staff. 
52 Elton John's groups instrument 
sa Derby 53 Arm bones 62-Kippur 54 Not handling 63 Something to criticism well lend or bend 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are avai Iable by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS 
-
-
-
... 
7 Overly docile 
a Chum 
II Sharp-pointed 
instrument 1 0 "YesI" 
: ~ ~a~rt_g_age 
13 Uncool one 1e Arrival gifts in Honolulu 
23 Remove, as marks 
snack 29 Glow 


Puzzle by Gfegory E. Paul 
JO Slugged, old-style 31 Sportsman's blade 32 October's birthstone 33 Composer Bart6k 
34 PC picture 
36 Fort Knox uni1 
39 Cherries' leftovers « So as to cause 
death 47 Apt '9 Raise crops 
The Observer 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
.loin the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an inclispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name Address-------------------­
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
-




¦ Hockey loses two ¦ Troy Murphy and and puts home ice Co. fall just short in advantage in jeopardy heartbreaker against for CCHA playoffs. West Virginia. 
--
PORTS 
p.15 p.14 
Monday, February 15, 1999 


¦ FOOTBALL 

Rogers named offensive coordinator 
Former Syracuse coach welcon1es new duties 
By TIM CASEY Sporrs Writer 
TIH' Irish fillPd a major void on Friday by snatching up Syracusn's offensive coordina­tor. Kevin Hogers, to replar.e

-
the departod Jim Colletto. 
Colletto, the former Purdue hear! coach who was Notre Dame's offensivP coordinator for the past two seasons. won the offensive line r,oach posi­tion with the NFL's Baltimore Havens last week. 
In a rriday telrconforenr,e, Hogors talked about his great respect for Notre Dame and that he regards this position 
¦ BENGAL BOUTS 
fan. Notre Dame is the top of the top." said 
Rogers. "It's 
a national university, it's a unique place and it stands for all the good things in college foot­ba11. It's 
'THE OPPORTUNITY TO 
COACH AT NOTRE DAME TRANSCENDS ANY• 
-
THING.' 
KEVIN ROGERS NEW NOTIU:: DAME OFFENSIVE COORDINA TOH 

RogMs grew up as an Irish fan and still remembers the days wlrnn he came as a Navy coach to play the Irish. 
"There's some things 
that just stick () u t in VO LI r mind. If y1;u•re a college foot­
the sidelines seeing they had guys in dresses IThe Irish Guard] biggPr than our play­ers," commented Rogers. 
Hogers. 4 7, had been with Syracuse for eight seasons. serving as quarterbacks coach since 1991 and as offensive coordinator l'or the past two seasons. 
Ilis Syracuse teams wer11 always among tho top offnnses in the country and featurncl two taleutod quartnrbacks. Marvin Graves and Donovan McNabb, whose playing styles are similar to Jarious Jackson's. 
McNabb '\\'as a thrre-time Big East Offensive Player of the Yt!ar and should be a first­round draft pick this April. Last season with McNabb 
see FOOTBALL/ page 17 

Boxers eager to showcase talents 
By KERRY SMITH 
Spnm Writer 
With the NotrP Damn lfongal Bouts quickly approaching, members of thn nwn ·s boxing club are eager to showcase their talents in front of' hun­dreds at the Joyce Center. 
The Bengal Bouts offer box­ing club members a chance to test their skills while raising money for the Iloly Cross Missions in Bangladesh. 
The boxing club currently carries a roster of 136 mem­bers. although not all will compete in the bouts. Captain DavP Murphy estimates that 115 boxers will participate. 
"That number is more than in the past," he said. "The club has an extra week to spar this year so we'll have more people involved." 
The boxers train extensively for the Bengal Bouts across two seasons: a novice program in tlrn fall and a vdi;rnn pro­gram in the spring. 
The novice program is coaclrnd by tho captains of the squad and leaclrns newcomers the fundamentals of boxing whilP providing intense strength and conditioning training. The purposn of the no\'ic1• program is to get bPginnPrs in shapn and up to spocd with basic boxing tech­niqut>s. 
The spring program begins with the start or Lim second sPnwstcr and combinos expe­rienced boxPrs with thosr who participated in tlw novice pro­gram. 
The club practices for two hours five days a week; many members train more on their own. Practices generally begin with a series of conditioning exercises including jumping jacks. push-ups and sit-ups. The team then concentrates 
¦ WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Rutgers 
upsets 
ND, 77-57 
By BRIAN KESSLER 
Assisrain Sports Editor 
PISCJ\T/\WAY, N.J. 
When the nation's eighth­ranked offense collides with the top-ranked defense. something has to give. 
Unfortunately for the Irish, it was their high-powrrcd offense that crumbled. No. 6 Notre Dame committrid 23 turnovers and shot a season­low 33 percent from the field Saturday in a 77-57 loss to No. 9 Rutgers at the Louis Bwwn Athletic Center. 
"I think defensively they are the bost team we'vo playod this year," said head coach Mullet McGraw, who saw her tnam's 11-game winning streak come to an ond. "They played their defense with a lot of intensity, double-team­ing tho post. They changed defenses a lot and we were never able to execute our game plan." 
The Irish also made records of an unpleasant kind Njust 18 field goals madn and 57 points scored, both of which are season-lows. 
"We looked out of sync the whole game," McGraw said. "Offensively, we never got on track and that is totally due to their defense. When we had some stops we just couldn't score. So I thought they did a gr~1atjob. It was a great effort by them." 
The Irish turned the ball over 10 times during their first 17 possessions, including a four-minute stretch in which they turned it over seven straight times without even getting off a shot attempt. 
Still, Rutgers couldn't takn advantage early on, and cap­tain Sheila McMillen helped 
shoot Notre Dame back into tho game when she nailed a three-pointer that capped a 10-2 run and gave the Irish a 24-20 lead with 6:14 remain­ing. 
Rutgers then took its game to the next level and put on an exhibition for the 5,414 fans in attendance. Senior guard Tomora Young had 14 points in the first half and helped the Scarlet Knights outscore thfl Irish 19-3 in thP last six minutes of the half. 
The Irish abandoned their zone in the second half and started to. cut into Rutgers' 39-27 half-time lead. 
"I thought when we went to tho triangle <1.0d two, we shut down the shooters that we wanted to shut down, but we 
see B-BALL/ page 18 
as the pinnacln in college foot­ball. 
"Tim opportunity to coach at Notre Dame transcrnds any­thing. ff you're a college foot­ball coach. if you're a footbnll lloftz's first recruiting class at William and Mary and also worked with defensive coordi­nator Greg Mattison while both were assistants at the Nnval Arndnmy. 

n•ally the culmination of 24 yrars ol'hard work." 
Hogers has strong ties to Notre Dame, both past and presPnt !IP was part of Lou 

ball coach, seeing the Golden Dome, seeing Touc·hdown .lesus, r.oming out that tunnel with the Victory March being playMl and th1rn standing on 

on technique, practicing foot­work, punches and sparring. 
"We try to stay as a team as much as possible," said Murphy. "But this week a Int of the guys will start more individual training to get 
ready." 

Many of the boxers will ease off their training regime this week in order to be well rest­ed for the Bonga) Bouts. 
"We're still going pretty hard at it," said captain 
Michael LaDuke. "But we'll start to taper down as the bouts get closer." 
The Bengal Bouts involve three rounds of six-minute 
see BENGALS/ page 17 

vs. Syracuse Women's Tennis 
Wednesday, 7 p. m. at National Indoor Championships 
Thursday-Sunday at Michigan State 
SPORTS 
ATA 
Friday, 7 p.m. 

at Syracuse Men's Tennis 
-
Wednesday, 7:30 p.m. vs. Northwestern
GLANCE 

Saturday, l p.m. 

