
Game point 
Going to the movies over.break? 
Senior tennis player Ryan Sachire was named 
Read the reviews of "Superstars" and 
Thursday
first seed.for the All-American 
"Random Hearts" to see what's 
championships. 
worth $7. 

OCTOBER 14, 
sports. page 21 
scene . page 14-15 

1999 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIII NO. 36 

Northrup: Women needed inCongr~ 
By ALISON HEINZ 
Nrws Writer 

Alt.hough llwrn is not a strong sense ul' 11xcl11sion among mcmhPrs of Congress, women still farn challenges when con­tributing to public policy. said Hep. Ann Northup, H-Ky .. during an interactive vidm1 conli•rence WPdnesday. Northup led Uw discussion titled, "A Women's Place in 
Congress." 

A sell"-proclaimetl "soccer· mom" and l <Jfi<J Saint Mary's College graduate, Northup ad<lrnssed issues women in poli­tics still fact•, uven as their representation incroasos. Currently, women comprise 9 pnrcent of tlrn Senate with about 13 per­cent total female representation in all of 
Congress. 

"It's hard bning a woman in Congress because tlm pnoplc that have been there tlrn longest arc now I.he chair people, and thny arc men who arc used to dealing with men," said Northup. 
"A lot of public policy has to do with informal arrangements such as going for a beer afler work," said Northup, also noting that the segregation of Congress' workout facilities contributes to the exclu­sion of women. 
"Every day at work it's not unusual for the first 30 minutes or so to be spent dis­cussing the business deals that took place 
see WOMEN/page 4 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

Women share experiences of violence 
By NELLIE WILLIAMS 
News Writer 
Ten young women of Saint Mary's Theater stand on the red lighted stage wearing vibrant colors and speaking with strong, forcc­f'u l voices and smiles on ilrnir faces. 
''I have a lovely home and a beautiful family if you don't look too close," they read frnm interpretive poet­ry addressing domestic abuse. 
In celebration of "Week Without Violence," Saint Mary's College invited local · women to give testimonies of how they have survived verbal and physical abuse.. Although the expected keynote speaker for the evening, Edwina Gately, was unable to attend, three other women spoke out against domestic violence, sharing their personal experiences. 
Jane Marshall is a divorced mother of three and a survivor of domestic abuse. When her boyfriend at the time first raised his fist in anger, she had no idea why. After she had broken up with him, he entered her house and attacked her in her bed­room. 
"One night he was strangling me. He 
Student loan def a ult hits all-time low 
vided 8.4 million loans total­
By CHRIS DESBARRES 

ing $34.1 billion for 1997.
News Writer 

The amount of loaned money has more than tripled since
The Fe1!.iral Student Loan 

1990 when the government
dnfaull rah~ dropped to an all­offered $1 l.7 billion in 1990.

li me low of 8.8 pnrcent in 

Even with the low default
l lJ97. according to Secretary rate. however, some institu­

or Education Hichard W. Riley. 

tions are stillT h i s 
burdened by
markocl tl111 

excessive
"To be right around a
Sl!Vlllllh 

defaults.
straight year 2 percent rate is 

"This year,"of declitw in 
something that the Hiley said,
the rate, 

University really prides "42 schools 
w h i C h 

are facedrnaclrnd its itselfon." 
with loss ofpeak ol' 22.4 
loan eligibili­
percent in 

Gene Pilawski ty." The
1990. The schools that

asst. director financial aid
1997 figurns 
arn tlrn most recent rnl"lection of the gov­ernment's effort to collect on student loans. 
Riley cited the strong econo­my, rising wages, increased productivity and low unem­ployment as reasons for the low del'ault rate. Ile also praised universities for "pio­neering new ways to help stu­de11 ts understand and meet their obligations." 
The federal government pro-their obligations," said Riley. 

Notre Dame and Saint Mary's more than exceeded national standards. For the third consecutive year. Notre Dame's r a t e was at Deep pockets 
0 . Federal student loan
r below 2 
default rate

percent, 
(1997): 8.8 percent

coming to 1.8 . Peak Federal percent, 

student loan rate 

a n d 
,1990): 22.4 percent

Sa i n t Mary's . Notre Dame loan stood at 
default rate: 

3.1 per­

1.8 percent

cent. "It's a 
. Saint Marv's loan c o m -default rate: mentary 3.1 percent 
on the types of students who arc graduating from Notre Dame," said Gene Pilawski from the Notre Dame Oflice ol' Financial Aid. "To be right around a 2 percent default rate is something that the University really prides 
see LOANS/page 4 
STUDENT SENATE 


Senators debate ethics committe nrune 
By FINN PRESSLY 
Assistant News Editor 
An amendment lo change the name of the ethics com­mittee caused brief debate at last night's meeting of the Student Senate. 
The amendment to the Student Union constitution was brought to the l1oor by Keenan senator Matthew Kloser and would change the name to the Rules and Regulations Committee. 
"It's not a punishment com­mittee, but rather to u-phold the regulations of the Senate," said Kloser. According to Kloser. most universities have made the revision. 
St. Edward's senator Paul Sladek was among the sena­tors who opposed the amend­ment. which would simply change the name of the com­mittee, not it's mission. 
"It doesn't seem neces­sary," said Sladek, adding concern. for the many changes already made tu the constitution this term. 
"It seems to me that 'ethics' seems like a positive thing," said Sorin senator Cimarron Gilson. 
Other senators added their opinion on the amendment. 
"Ethics may be too powor­f'ul a word, but Hules and Regulations might be too lim­iting," said Carroll senator Patrick O'Donnell. 
Welsh senator Candice Marcum suggested combining the two names to "Ethics, Hules and Regulations." 
Senate parliamentarian Stephen Sanchez explained that ethics was the more effective title of the commit­tee. 
"Rules and Regulations would seem to imply infrac­
see SENATE/page 4 may possibly 

be affected 
are schools where the default 
rate has been over 25 percent 
for three consecutive years or 
a one-year default rate of over 
40 percent. 
The government collected 
more than $2.2 billion in 1999 on previously defaulted debts. "We don't give up when a stu­. dent defaults. We work very hard with them to help them re-enter repayment and meet 

had me on the floor banging my head to talk to him, she decided to file a on the ground. I remember scream­restraining order but the judge denied ing," she said. it. 
She was so scared that she did not call the police. After going to his home see VIOLENCE/page 4 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Thursday, October 14, 1999 
INSIDE COLUMN 




'Vox Populi' Indeed 
Wheu the United Stai.es Senate commences deliberation, we may have come to expect fla­grant displays of destructive partisanship, materialistic greed and sloppy rhetoric, but at least we can expect them to do something. I wish the same could be said for our own local sen­
ate. A. J. Boyd It was with the model of 
the U.S. government in mind that the Notre Dame Student Government recre­ated itself three years ago as the Notre Dame Student Union. 
The whole system was thrown out and an organization based on the division of powers in the United States Constitution was set up in its place. Tho official voice of the student body would now be expressed via a Student Senate, complete with dorm representatives and every­thing!
f 
I 
Now, I admit, for the student whose idea of "extracurricular" is only found at Corby's or 
I 
Club 23, or for those whose only concerns are with grades and a high-paying job, the senate in any form is totally irrelevant. But for those 
I 
of us who like to think about the world beyond ourselves or wish to have some influence on how our money is spent and what happens to this great University. the senate should be f where we turn to get things done. ·
• 
Which is why it is so disappointing to see
l 
them do ABSOLUTELY NOTHING this semester, and why it is disturbing that most students see nothing out of the ordinary in this. 
Lest you think that I am only a ranting jour­nalist wannabe, let me assure you of my expe­rience in this field. My years spent on the com­mittee that created the new system, service as both the first Keough Senator and the constitu­tional consultant to the senate and the CLC, as well as time on the Oversight Committee and Campus Life Council had me embroiled in the formation of the original goals and purview of the senate, as well as their earliest realization. 
Anytime there is a decision to be made on this campus that affects students, our opinion should be voiced, loudly and accurately by the senate. Anytime we want to speak to the national or global community as Notre Dame (for, as Monk grudgingly admits, "Students are the lifeblood of the University"), it should hap­pen through the Student Senate. Instead of try­ing to delay the closing time of Rolfs, senators should be promulgating the student opinion on the administration censure of ads in The Observer, suggesting better ways to find schol­arships for students or advocating what we think should be done about East Timor or the missing Panchen Lama. 
Whether you think the Big Ten decision or the Spirit of Inclusion statement is a bigger deal, the fact remains that the senate was cre­
I 
' ated to be the primary vehicle through which debate can be conducted and student policy can be made. Don't just let them wallow in the 
I 
self-inflicted doldrums of uselessness: You elected vour senator for a reason, and it wasn't just to b·eef up his or her resume! 
Every resource of the Student Union (SUB, 
I HPC, CCC, Executive Cabinet, et al.) can be at I the disposal of the senate if only they applyI themselves to the job you elected them to. So, do a good turn today, go make your senator
i 
i 
feel useful and give them an idea of how not to waste his or her next six meetings. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and nol necessarily those ofThe Obserrier. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Bill Uniowski Mike Vanegas Erin Piroucek Graphics Mau Bunda 
Joe Mueller Spotts 
Production 

Molly McVoy Kerry Smith 


Viewpoint 
Lab Tech 

A.]. Boyd Ernesto Lacayo 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) i, published Monday rhcough Friday -except during ex.am and vacation periods. The Ob:.erver is a mrmbcr ofthe A.uociatcd Press;. All rcprod.uctio11 rjghrs arc re.served. 
Assistant Viewpoint Editor 

THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Thursday  Friday  
. Pre-Law Fair: 11 a.m. to  . Pep Rally: gates open at  
3 p.m; Joyce Center  5:30 p.m. for students,  
Concourse.  6:10 p.m. for public; Joyce  
. Chopin Recital: Robert  Center Arena.  
Jablonski; 7 p.m.;  . Panel Discussion: "Irish  
Hesburgh Library  Studies in a Global  
Auditorium.  Context"; 3:30 p.m.  
Hesburgh Center.  

Compiled from U-Wire reports

OUTSIDE THE DOME 

Michigan professor wins physics Nobel Prize 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. 

University of Michigan physics Professor emeritus Martinus Veltman won the Nobel Prize for physics on Monday, marking the first time a University staff member has received the prnstigious international award. 
"You don't dream for things like this," 69-year-old Veltman said Tuesday from his home in the Netherlands. 
The Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences, which awards Nobel Prizes, recognized Veltman's parti­cle physics theory on firmer math-. ematical foundations. which he completed between 1969 and 1971 while at the University of Utrecht in Holland. 
Veltman retired from the University of Michigan in 1997 after serving 16 years in the physics 
Student saves man from fire 
BOSTON 

When Northeastern University student Philip Chigos came upon a burning residence in Middlebury, Vt., at 4 a.m. Sunday, he jumped into action and saved a human life. In the early morning hours, Chigos raced to the burning structure, knocking on the windows, wondering if someone was trying to get out. "I ran up to the house, banged on the window, screaming my lungs out," said Chigos. "I decided to run around the house, still screaming and yelling." Middlebury resi­dent Tom Edgerton was sleeping in the basement and, according to his sister Carolyn LaRose, woke up deter­mined to quiet down the passer-by. "l told him the place was up in flames," said Chigos. Looking back at the situation on Tuesday night, Chigos said he is thankful no one was hurt or injured. "You become very involved," he said. "You want everyone to come out unharmed." Chigos is still a little stunned that his night became dramatic so quickly. "We were out hav­ing a good time all night. We [just] went out to get something to eat," he said. The Vermont State police are currently investigating the cause of the fire. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

th'ursday 
Friday; 
! 

::Saturcfay 


Sundiy 
·•MondajB::)>;:L;,
,.) "'"'~.•~'---. ;-"\,.;
,.,,\j 
,J ,,J 

~-~-~~~ ~ i) ~ ~ 
ShOwers T-storrns Rain F/urries Snow /cs Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy VIS Associaled Pr,ss GraphicsNet 
"You don 't dream for things like this." 
Martinus Veltman Nobel Prize winner 
department, where ,he specialized in applied physics. 
Veltman plans to write a book explaining his theories. His research is an "extension of the mathematical models that are used to explain what particles do," he said. 
Veltman's findings have enabled physicists to predict mathematically properties of the sub-atomic parti­cles that make up all matter in the universe and the forces that hold these particles together.... 
Employee's conviction overturned 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. 

Joining some 20 other women across the nation who have been victorious in their fight to appear topless in public, a University of Florida employee's disorderly conduct conviction was overturned almost four years after she was arrested for not wearing a shirt in the Osceola National Forest. Kayla Sosnow said she took off her shirt while she was carrying water back to her campsite in 90-degree heat with other men who were also shirtless. Although there were no reported com­plaints, Sosnow said local police arrested her for dis­turbing the peace after she "refused to be oppressed." "American women have been forced to cover our breasts, while American men may exercise the freedom to go top-free," she said. "This sexist practice is based upon a faulty fundamental definition of women's breasts as obscene sex objects." Sosnow said the conviction, recently overturned by Florida's Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals, was one of a growing number of cases filtering through the United States and Canada. The decision was based on a higher court precedent involving distur­bances of the peace. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeathe~ forecast for noon, Thursday, Oct. 14. 

........... ...._._ ......... 

C 1909 AccuWealher, Inc. COLD WARM STATfONARY 
Pr,..ur•: ~ ~ 
® © GJ EJ ClJ [m B'Z'.J E:fil "wE ,_1 ,@j~ 
High Low Showen Rein T~1torm1 Flurrlee Snow loe Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Vis A£.SOCllll'11i pn,ss 
Atlanta  76  54  Las Vegas  92  60  Portland  60  40  
Baltimore  68  38  Memphis  70  49  Sacramento  88  51  
Boston  59  41  Milwaukee  54  48  St. Louis  63  53  
Chicago  60  46  New York  70  49  Tampa  · 88  71  
Cincinnati  61  44  Philadelphia  64  42  Wash DC  66  44  

Saturday 
. 
The Game: Notre Dame vs. USC; 1 :30 p.m.; Notre Dame Stadium. 

. 
Mass: 30 mintues after the game; Basillica of the Sacred Heart. 


His theories also laid -a foundation for the discovery of quarks in 1995 by a group including Veltman's University colleague Homer Neal, a physics professor and former inter­im University president. 
Veltman's work has been crucial to further understand nature and the universe, said Michigan physics professor Myron Campbell. 
"We made a big stride forward," Veltman said. 
No one quite knows who nominat­ed Veltman and his co-winner Gerardus Hooft of the University of Utrecht. 
"It is a unique system where any­body can nominate anybody, we do not know who nominated Veltman or how many time_s he was nomi­nated and was not successful," said Ctirad Uher, chair of the physics department. 
Sunday 
. Mass: 8 a.m., 10 a.m., 
11 :45 a.m.; Basillica of the Sacred Heart. . Mass: 9:45 a.m., 11:15 a.m.; Church of Loretto. 

Thursday, October 14, 1999 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Prof: Catholicism, BL0WIN' OFF STRESS WITH SORRY! 

MARV CALASH/The Observer Rachel Steininger and Ernie Mancing take a break from midterm stress at SUB's "Bingo and Board Game Day" Wednesday at LaFortune. 




SMC addresses parking, diversity 
sociology can interact 
By MAUREEN SMITHE New, Writer 
A I though th 1~ di f'fc re 11 ccs hntw,rnn sociology and Catholicism art> obvious, th,~y c:an still i11terar.l positively, acrnrdi11g to Hoston Collnge profossor /\Ian Wolfe. 
"Both Catholicism and soci­ology havP rxpnri1•m:nd simi­1il r f'alI'S ill r CC I\ ll t t.i ll111 S," Wolfo said in a lncture 
W<~dnnsday. 
"Catholocism was not a soci­
ologist's n•liginn of choict~ ... 
C:atl1t1locisrn was a force for 
l>ackwarunnss in Gnrmany," ht' s a icl , citing th n non ­Catholic. :rnciologists Max h1b1•r and Martin Luther. 
Wolf'n said that tho two can find a common ground by IPar11i11g from Pach otlwrs' µositivP qualities. 
Und1!r Uw inllu1mcH of llwol­ogy, "nm piricai social sciencu might. conw to appreciate the virttll' of humi Iity' n hr said. ··social sciPncl' would lnarn from tlrn pluralism in American religion greater respect for the pluralism in their !fold." 
Wolfo commPntl'd on sociol­ogy in i\ml'fka. 
"Nearly all great founders of Am,irican sociology were Protnstants," hn said, "In fact, most grnw up with f'atlrnrs who Wl'rt' Protestant minis­LPrs." 
Hnligious dil'f'nrnncns arc just orrn distinction between individuals involvPd in the two t'i<-I<Is , hn s a icl . W h iI e the Catholic wants nveryonP to follow llw same lwlief, "Urn sociologist immNliatl'ly wants u, chararlPriz<' 1wopk into ... 
distinct groups," said Wolfe. 
"Botb sociologists and Catholics change themselves ... they both Americanize themselves," Im said. 
With European immigrants moving to America, Church traditions W<ffe incorporated into American city life, Wolfe 
said.  
"Both  sociology  and  
Catholicism  were  an  urban  
phenomenon," he said.  

WolfP-also discussed the importance of tradition for both Catholicism and sociolo­gy. 
"We are much more likely Lo witness intersections between some Catholic traditions and some sociological traditions," he said. "Therp, is no Catholic tradition within which sociolo­gy can be contrasted," he said. 
"In theory. a rPligious tradi­tion as secure in its faith as Catholocism should havn noth· ing to do with an academic tradition, such as sociology," he said. 
However, the two fields do mix at most universities and differ at every Institution. "Hence, Notre Dame's sociolo­gy department has more in common with university of Michigan's than with my own institution, Boston College," he said. Boston College's soci­ology department is related more closelv to the one at Brandies Uni~ersity, a primar­ily .IPwsih university, than it is with its Catholic counterpart, according to Wolfe. 
"Geography is a much more pow1!rful determinant in i\mnrica than religion," Wolfe said. 
The lecture was sponsored by the Erasmus Institute. 

By COURTNEY BOYLE 
News Writer 
The Saint Mary's parking problem was addressed at Wednesday night's Board of Governance meeting, with a propl)sal ready for Linda 

students be allowed to park in the Le Mans lot from 5 
p.m. to 7 p.m. to help allevi­ate parking problems. Currently, the lot sits unused during these hours. In past years, students have been allowed to park in the Le Mans lot from 5:30 p.m. 
Timm, vice president of stu­until 7 p.m. dent affairs. "It [the 
The proposal. outlined by lack of off-campus commissioner parking Beth Beatty, suggests that spaces l is a problem because there is 





www.superjobs.com 
overflow everywhere, there are no parking spots any­where," said Beattv. 
The boa.rd 
and a hog­
"It [the lack ofparking 
calling con­
spaces] is a problem test. 
because there is overflow T h e Catholic
everywhere, there are no 
Social
parking spots anywhere." Teaching 
Hetreat is 
s c h.e du I e d 
Beth Beatty 
forNov.11.
off-campus commissioner 
"It is a 

also continued discussion of plans to add a Student Diversity Board to the Board of Governance. This proposal will be presented to the Board of Trustees today. 
Akmaral Omarova, ethnic diversity commissioner, is working on reviving the 
Asian club. 
"We have a lot of interest shown from the freshman class, which is unusual," said Omarova. 
The Hesidents Hall Association is planning a Harvest Fest on Oct. 28. This event will foature an old-fashioned barn, bobbing 
for apples 
wonder f'u I 
opportunity 
to not only learn about Catholic Social Training, but also to discuss how to make it part of your life," said Molly Kahn, mis-· sion commissioner. 
The Board also approved a payment of $330 to the Counseling and Career Department to fund the Showcase for Careers. 


page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, October I 4, 1999 
husband was verbally and Instfiad, it was a "lung, female elected officials. 
tions the small number of 
emotionally abusive. rough voyage filled with

ViolenceWoillen 
"He would grab my shirt repulsive fear." stream," said Northup, sug­
"So f'ew women are main­
continued from page 1 and press me against the "My abuser instilled awfulcontinued from page I 
------------wall," said Hayden. thoughts of what he'd do to al lhe gym yesterday," said tend to be supported by very 
gesting an explanation. Women 
"I felt so ashamed for loving She became suicidal and me if I left," she said. "Ile Northup. liberal organizations and are 
someone so out of control," went into therapy, but the used sex as a punishment Northup does feel. however, sometimes so extreme that they 
Marshall said. "l felt lost. Mv abuse continued. when I didn'l do what he that being a woman in do not succeed beyond the pri­
best friend convinced me to "I was called slut, whore. wanted. lie knew how long it Congress is sometimes an maries. 
call for help. l tried to contin-lButl I was determined; l took for me to drive home ue on with my life." wantml the marriag«l to work from work and accusfld me of
advantage because it makes Northup advised women who her unique. When a. female have an interest in public poli­
Although Marshall moved out," said Hayden. seeing other men." perspective is wanted on an cy to become bolder. Typically, 
into a new home, her ex-When Hayden realized she Finally. Chapman cam(l to issue, Northup feels the odds women sit back and wait to bo 
boyfriend found her again. would not be able to leave the point of lying awake in aro in her favor because she is asked to run. 
"I said I was seeing some-this man, she became prcg­bed contemplating how to one of onlv 19. "If vou wait to be invited. 
one else -he said he'd kill nant. However, even while either kill him or herself. She him [her current boyfriend]. pregnant, lrnr husband woulrl decided to go to the support
"And when they want a con­you'll. never run," said servative viewpoint, the odds Northup. 
He followed me everywhere. 1 slap her. After her daughter group at the Y,,VCA. She real­are really in my favor -about Overall. Northup said th•at 
became suicidal an·d l'elt so was born, Haydon became ized he had no right to treat one in three," said Nortlnip. everybody should be involved 
aloue and scared," she said. deprnssod, was hospitalized her the wav he did. Although female representa­-men and women of all races. 
Marshall started attending and then returned to her hus­"You do.n'l deserve to be tion in politics is increasing, "Everybody should run," said 
th erapy and reading the band. /\ year ago. she lef't abused. I don't care what Northup does not think that the Northup. "We always need the 
Bible. She moved in with her him. you've done -you don't numbers are as high a.s they best minds at the table." 
best friend and reported "It's a struggle to regain my deserve it," Chapman said, could be. Northup feels that the The video conference is part 
everything. self-esteem and my hope for encouraging women who face electorate is ready and willing of the Hanley Lecture Series 
"l still have the night-the future," Hayden says. domestic abuse. to elect women, so she qucs-Program. 
.~ares," Marshall says. "I Deborah Chapman never "I am made of hand blown 
know it is not my own fault. I thought about domestic vio­glass," she added. "Beautiful, 
am still .very cautious. I will lence as a child. delicate. You may look but do 
never give up." "I always thought my life not touch," the theatre stu­
a priority of the University." 
Another woman, Marie would be tho dream of getting dents read. "I am woman -I The University has been 
Hayd1:m, sympathized with thl'I married and living happily do not exist for anyone but

Loans 
able to meet almost all of the 
struggle for survival. Married ever after," said Chapman, myse!t' I am strong from this financial needs of the current 
at the age of 19, Hayden's another domestic violence day forward, I'll be silent no
continued from page I 
survivor. more." itself on." classes. "We try to make it as 
When asked about the affordable as possible with all nature of the success. Pilawski of the financial aids programs explained, "It's the students, that we have available." and we also work hard to try Pilawski said. 
freshman and sophomore 
amendment, but Sanchez concern given to him by make our students aware of "We 're proud of our low 
advised that it would be best Palumbo regarding the pur­their responsibilities as bor­default rate, we're proud of 

Senate 
to vote the amendment down chase of inexpensive SYH rowers. Before every student our student's responsibility 
continued from page 1 instead, which the Senate did. shirts. leaves, we conduct a student and we're pleased with the 
Four senators abstained from "Everyone [forgets] that the loan exit interview to try to University's efforts at making 
tions with rules and regula­the vote. reason why they're getting say that this is very important financial aid a priority," said 
tions," said Sanchez. "Ethics cheap shirts is because they and here's what to expect." Pilawski. 
would allow you to deal with In other Senate news: were probably produced in It's no secret that Notre For information concerning 
issues [that are] contrary to sweatshops," Dittmar said. Dame is an expensive institu­student aid and government 
the spirit of rule, but not con­. Fisher 'senator Philip A list was made available to tion. but, Pilawski said, "The loans, contact the Office of 
trary to the letter of the rule." Dittmar, who chaired the the senators that compiled Trustees have done a wonder­Financial Aid or the 
In light of the objections, meeting in the absence of possible sweatshop manufac­ful job· of making financial aid Department of Education. 
Kloser offered to strike the Michael Palumbo, expressed a turers. 


NETWORK 
t 
i l 
I 
.I 
l I ' I 
t I 
I 

A WELCOMING PLACE FOR RESPECTFUL D1ALOGUE 
Sponsored by the Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs 
When members of the Notre Dame community display this symbol, know that they are prepared to offer awelcoming place of conversation about issues related to sexual orientation. If you have questions about your own sexual orientation, or have questions concerning . the experience of afriend or family member, please look for the NETWORK symbol. 


AFP Photo 
The United States Drug Enforcement Agency, the CIA and Colombian officials worked together to orchestrate 
"Operation Millenium," a huge drug trafficking bust including arrests in 15 countries. Pictured are a few of the 30 people arrested in Colombia. 
U.S. leads massive drug bust 
Thursday, October 14, 1999 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Study shows underage smoking law unenforced 
WASHINGTON 
A 1992 law aimed at ending sales of ciga­retles and other tobacco products to minors through rigorous state-level checking has not I.mm adnquatl!ly enforced, a private analysis says. The Department of llealth and Human Services said Wednesday lhat the report is IJ,L'ied on old c!uta. lfofore the law took effect, 60 to <JO percent or teens wern able to successfully purchase tobacco. Aller a year, the national average hnd fallen to 40 percent, and it's nxpocled to bn close to 20 percent this year, said 1\,lark Weber, an HHS spokesman. But the study argues that most states and U.S. territo­ries have neglected to investigate properly if their own laws prohibiting the sale of tobacco to minors are followed and to prosecute when the laws are broken. 
Israel to release second wave of Palestinian prisoners 
JERUSALEM 
Israeli and Palestinian negotiators have agreed on the release of more Palestinians jailed for anti-lsradi acts, negotiators said today. overcoming an obstacle that had hin­dnred the revived peace talks. The prisoner rnlease, the second mandated under a Septemucr agroement, was to have taken­place Oct. 8. IL was postponed when the sides could not agree on a list of prisoners. The prisoners am now scheduled for release on Friday. Palestinians had insisted on including prisoners jailed for killing Israelis, something Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak refused to do. They also accused Barak of stacking his proposed list with prisoners already due for imminent release. It was not clear Wednesday what the compromiso was. 
Severe cold freezes rescue team mission to South Pole 
WELLINGTON, New Zealand 
An American team planning a South Pole flight to rescue a physician with breast can­cer symptoms delayed its departure Thursday as temperatures there plunged to nearly 70 below zero. Hescuers had been hoping that the onset of the polar summer would quickly warm the coldest place on earth, allowing them to evacuate Jerri Nielsen. 4 7, who reportedly has been treat­ing herself with chemotherapy since a daring airdrop of medical supplies in July. But the crews of two Air National Guard Hercules LC-130 cargo planes, who arrived Wednesday at McMurdo base on Antarctica's coast to wait for temperatures to rise enough for them to safely fly to the pole. 
liih•IMittttliMtM
Dow AMEx: 
789.41 
JONES -vo 
Nasdaq:
-184.9 

2801.27 -71.16 
NYSE 
607.46 -5.87 

S&P 500: Composite1285.55 Volume:10,232.16 -27.49 8 I 6,S99,000 
VOLUME LEADERS 
CPMrMJ UCIA ) GHIRI •£DM91 JIIJQ, 
IJffJ:L ~01\P un,c -!lo.H -,.5675 10.l DKLt COIOttM'll DnL -2,!3 -1.oa:oo l0.6 
¦Jcao_,rr co•• N87T ·l-l:l ..1.,025 u.o IJIU.lCA 0111.lWS AOL -.2.lO -a,eaoo 11, i AUJ.C:lOlfU .• I.JIJ' •U.05 -5.190.0 U:.5 ClKO BHT'DUI c•co ..:1;.01 -1.&600 u:., Ci!.Oa.ll Ca0481W allU -J-.12 -1.1715 u.1 INTL ~tJS JtACH'.l:lf UN -La -,.noo u.t OMCU oacL ..a.u •0.4,00 u.21 JCOMCOU COIi¦ ......, +l.:150 u., 





orld 
•I 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
COLOMBIA 

Associated Press 
BOGOTA 
A leader of the once­powerful Medellin cartel was among 30 people arrested Wednesday and slated for extradition to the United States in what authorities described as the biggest blow to Colombian drug trafficking since 1995. 
In a separate, unrelated operation, U.S. drug offi­cials in Puerto Rico 
Senate rejects landmark nuclear ban 
announced the arrests of 1,290 lower-level traffick­ing suspects in 15 coun­tries and the seizure of more than two dozen drug­running boats in a two­week operation, mostly in the Caribbean. 
Former Medellin cartel leader Fabio Ochoa, 42, was the best-known sus­pect seized in Colombia in pre-dawn raids that offi­cials said crippled the heir­apparent to the Medellin and Cali cartels, Colombia's main drug mafias throughout the 1980s and early 1990s. 
The successor ring smuggled up to 30 tons of cocaine a month into Mexico for distribution throughout the United States -using transit countries including Ecuador and Chile -and also shipped the drugs to Europe, according to Colombian and U.S. offi­cials. 
Past law enforcement crackdowns have failed to stem the flow of drugs 
John Chafee of Rhode Island, James Jeffords of Vermont, Gordon Smith of Oregon and Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania. 
The-treaty has been signed by 154 nations, but must be ratified by all 44 of the world's nuclear-capa­ble countries to take effect. Thus, the Senate vote was an enormous blow. 
Supporters warned the price of outright rejection would be certain interna­tional condemnation -and could even increase pres­sure on emerging nuclear powers like Pakistan and India to conduct more tests. 
from Colombia, where left­ist rebels are increasingly involved in protecting cocaine and heroin pro­duction. 
This poor Andean nation has a rich tradition of 
· criminal enterprise, and it was unclear how much of a dent the arrests would make in the international drug trade. 
New smuggling organi­zations have traditionally emerged to take over the business of jailed drug bosses. 
"With this vote tonight, the world becomes a more dangerous place," declared Sen. Carl Levin, 0-Mich. 
Specter pointed to the military coup in Pakistan as one more reason why treaty is important. 
"The events of the past 24 hours in Pakistan show the undesirability of having Pakistan test," he said. 
America's top European allies -Britain, France and Germany -had called on the Senate late last week not to reject the pact. And China earlier this week said U.S. ratification would lead other countries to follow suit. 
Associated Prcss 
WASHINGTON 
The Senate rejected a landmark treaty to ban nuclear testing Wednesday, handing President Clinton a humiliating foreign policy defeat. 
The vote was 48 to 51, far short of the 67 votes ­or two-thirds of the Senate -needed for ratification. As expected, the final vote closely followed party lines, with only four Republicans voting for it and Sen. Robert Byrd, D-W.Va., vot­ing present. 
The showdown followed a bruising partisan battle. Democrats vowed to make the rejection a prime 2000 campaign issue, claiming polls show most Americans favor such a ban -first proposed by President Dwight Eisenhower in 1958. 
Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott, R-Miss., called the pact "fatally flawed." 
The clock ran out after three days of debate and futile negotiations for a postponement among Senate Democrats, the White House and Republican Senate leaders. 
Republicans who voted for the treaty were Sens. 
_________ 
......,.........,. 
page 6 The Observer . BUSINESS NEWS Thursday, October 14, 1999 
Stocks slide for second straight day, Dow ends down 184 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Stocks fell sharply for a sec­ond straight session Wednesday as Intel's disap­pointing earnings report ham­mered technology shares and plunging bond prices dragged the broader market lower.· 
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 184.90 to close at 10,232.16. extending its drop· of' 231.12 on Tuesday. The Dow is down 3.9 percent so far this week. 
Broader stock indicators also closed sharply lower. The 

after saying
Standard & "Right now, investors 
sales rose at a
Poor's .500 fell seem willing to 
slower pace
27.49 to 
ignore the good news than at rival
1,285.55, and 
American Eagle
the Nasdaq and embrace 
·outfitters.
composite index the bad. 
Investors
dropped 71.16 
brushed off the
to 2,801.27. 
news that
Stephen Shobin
Intel, often 
Abercrombie's
considered a technical analyst 
bellwether stock for the technol­ogy sector, tum­bled 4 9/16 to 72 1/8. The company, the world's largest manufacturer of semiconduc­tors, reported late Tuesday it earned 55 cents a share in the quarter, 2 cents below ana­lysts' forecasts. 
The results surprised investors who have come to expect Intel to meet or surpass Wall Street forecasts. Other technology leaders also fell, including Microsoft, which fell 1 1/2 to close at 91 1/16. 
Traders said Intel's report fostered nervousness about other chip makers, which may face production troubles in the coming months as Taiwan, a major producer of semicon­ductor parts, rebuilds from a recent earthquake. The Philadelphia Siock Exchange semiconductor index fell 2.5 percent. 
Intel also deflated some opti­mism about corporate profits in general. The companies that comprise the S&P 500 are expected to post average profit growth of more than 19 per­cent in the third quarter, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. But with expectations high, ana­lysts warn that any companies that miss analysts' forecasts are in line for harsh punish­ment from investors. 
In recent quarters, however, even companies that have met estimates have faltered if their profit reports contained any hint of trouble. So on Wednesday, trendy retailer Abercrombie & Fitch fell 6 
3/16 to 26 5/16 
earnings will 
meet expecta­
tions. 
Stephen Shobin, technical analyst at Lehman Brothers, warned that unless investors can shake lingering nervous­ness about rising interest rates, earnings may be unable to drive stocks much higher. 
"Wall Street is expecting phenomenal earnings, and that might already be priced into the market," he said. "Right now, investors seem willing to ignore the good news and embrace the bad." 
The bond market provided a major dose of bad news. Prices dropped sharply, pushing the yield on the 30-year Treasury bond from 6.22 percent late Tuesday to 6.27 percent, the highest level since August. The yield briefly touched 6.29 per­cent, the highest since Oct. 1997. At that level, the bond market can lure investors away from stocks by offering fixed, guaranteed returns. 
Bond prices have been 
TNE' -:R~ASONS TO ·l'AlftY 4R·tr !IENn-.*-'s.sl 
GIANT PARTY SUBS FOR ANY OCCASION! 
(!?lease Order At Least 48 Hours In Advance) 
•1706 South Bend Ave (Walking Distance!)243-7738 •SR 23 & lronwood/277-7744 •Indian Ridge Plaza/271-1772 •52577 US 31 N (North ~illage Mall)277-1024 

falling as investors worry that sales, producer prices and ary levels. rising commodity prices are industrial production are Analysts also said improving setting a stage for inflation to expected to offer the latest global growth prospects are escalate. Later this week, gov­signs of whether the buoyant drawing foreign investors ernment reports on retail economy is reaching inflation-away from U.S. equities. 
Domino's Pizza 
1627 Edison Road, South Bend, IN 46637 



271-0300 
STUDY BREAK SPECIAL! 
Today Only 
Study Hard For Midterms. Enjoy Your Break! 




r-------------------, 
I 2 Large Pizzas w/ Cheese I I $899 I 
I I 

I $1 Per Topping I I 
Add Breadsticks for $1 I 
I expires 10/14/99 I
L ___________________ J 

,....,...._________________________ .....,__....,,....______ ,.......______-.__________________ 
._ 
, 
Thursday, October 14, 1999 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
India on watch after Pakistan's military coup 
ISLAMABAD 
Pakistan's new military leader came under pressure to restore democracy Wednesday after his troops swept away 


Prizes Give-Aways 
arrest Wednesday,
It ·s a whole new terrortory 
)WI D 11.£ 
Musharrar met with a range of Fe a t'-'.l ri~ g 
poJiticians, raising speculation that he may try to cobble
NltcS HAUNTt~ ~OUSc 1999 
and 

IN3-D
N. ~ ~ ~ T ~AR~ ... 
A 11:·7(','ic lk'W (//j.1Jt'!./lSIO/J Jj] h/lV.IJ!t'!d .HO!..'..~tt.'S 
"Consider this an open invitation to discuss your insurance needs in my new office." 
Being in good hands is the only place to be:' 

the elected government, rais­ing fears around the world at the prospect of army rule in a nuclear-armed nation. 
Pakistan's nuclear rival, 
warned the Secretary of State went on the 
'-ii Fry fr1ddi1 ·"IS poo ky Splatt 
India, put its troops on alert fighting this summer in disput­and watched warily for the ed Kashmir. next step by Gen. Pervaiz Musharraf, head of Musharraf, a man Indians Pakistan's army, gave no hint blame for months of bloody about his plans Wednesday, 
maintaining silence after announcing before dawn that 
together an administration of former politicians and tech­nocrats to rule the country. Musharraf also met Wednesday with Pakistani President Rafiq Tarar. 
Musharraf's troops moved swiftly in Pakistan's main cities only an hour after Sharif announced the general's dis­missal. The soldiers seized government buildings and air­ports and shut down state-run TV and radio for several hours. 
Many Pakistanis danced in the streets, praising the army for getting rid of an elected leader who had become increasingly despised for 
air to 
announce the military lakeover. He said his forces had acted "as a last resort" to stop Sharifs govern­m en t, which he accused of "systematically destroying" the state and driving the economy toward collapse. 
The general urged calm and promised "very soon" to announce his plans for Pakistan's future. He did not elaborate. 
Aside from setting up a pro­vision al government, Musharraf could call elections -a move required within three months under the consti­tution -or try to rule himself. 
r.rom around the world came demands he hand power back to a democratic government. 
U.N. Secretary-General Kol1 Annan urged the army to restore civilian rule quickly, and the International Monetary Fund said it was cut­ting off aid to Pakistan until democracy returned. 
In another sign of growing isolation, the Commonwealth -a grouping of former British colonies -said it might sus­pend Pakistan's membership, a move last taken in 1995 against Nigeria. European Union also said it would post­pone a new trade deal with Pakistan for the time being. 
• 
his troops had ousted Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif. 
Tuesday's lightning coup ­sparked by Sharifs attempt to fire Musharraf -capped months of growing army resentment against the pre­mier for backing away from the fight over Kashmir. President Clinton pressured Sharif into convincing Islamic fighters to pull back. reported­ly outraging and humiliat­
Specials All Night Long 


B•cau•• you '4Anl•d 
coup created a "level of uncertainty" in South Asia. She said U.S. officials had been in contact with Pakistan's military leaders, trying to persuade them to restore democratic govern­ment. 
"A military takeover of this kind ... does make it· difficult to continue business as usual," she said. 
India and Pakistan, which conducted tit-for-tat nuclear tests last year, have fought three wars in 52 years, two of them over Kashmir. 
Pentagon spokesman Kenneth Bacon played down worries over Pakistan's nuclear weapons program, saying in Washington that the coup had not changed the situ­ation since control of the weapons program had always been in the hands of the mili­tary. 
Officials from both countries dismissed fears of a Pakistani attack on India. But India said efforts to revive their peace process would be delayed until the situation in Pakistan stabi­lized. 
While Sharif remained under house 
ing army ':4 military takeover of his heavy­
leaders. handed rule
this kind ... does make it 
I n and economic Washington, difficult to continue mismanage­Secretary of ment.
business as usual."
S t a t e Before 
Madeleine d a w n , Albright Madeleine Albright Musharraf
THURSDA.YMGIII' SO'!i NIGRI. 
Thursday October 14, 1999
page 8 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Love Is the Word for Fall Break 
It's amazing to me that, with all the nuances con­tained in the English language, our society is so painfully one-dimensional when it comes to a word underlying so much of who we are. The word is "love." 
Think about the words you have in your own back­pack, and then think about how they help you express who you are, where you are, and what you're feeling. Let's say you're experiencing a tough day. You can say you're "in a funk," "having the blues," "things are shady,"
li. 
"I'm having a bad hair day!" or "I'm a stressball!" The list could go on.... 
Now let's think about "love." You can love your cat back at home, you can love your Dad's '64 Chevy, you can love the Indigo Girls and love shooting hoops. You can love your roommates. You can love your significant other. You can love your parents. Same verb. Infinitely different shades of meaning. 
Of course, in our culture, we can sometimes compre­hend these nuances. We understand the difference between loving a Blizzard at Dairy Queen and loving a grandmother. 
But in human relations, there are many subtle layers to loving. Love can manifest itself in many ways -through friendship, through gentility, through mentoring. Love can also manifest itself through sacrifice, through selfless giving. C. S. Lewis named four loves: companionship, friendship, romance, and the last and greatest, Christian love. And he felt so strongly about the uniqueness of this kind of love that he renamed it: caritas. 
What's equally perplexing (and yet wonderful as well) is that, with all the strands of emotion and experi­ence that make up the fabric of our world, sometimes there are several different facets of love working at the same time. The life-long friend who is a teacher. The person who used to be a roommate, but has now become a confi­dante. The priest who still says mass, but has now become a spiritual companion. 
Perhaps there is a hidden wisdom in having just one word for this great mystery, because it forces our hand to define what is constantly at play in our lives. 
So here's a thought for fall break: After seven ardu­ous weeks of doing, of jumping through the hoops of other folks' academic agendas, how about a walk around a lake (or a few city blocks), and taking a look at what defines our being: those things we call "loving relationships." No matter who they might be, from parents to high-school friends to HTHs to the posse we hang out with at Senior Bar. 
And perhaps, after a few miles and some deep think­ing, our journey back to Notre Dame on October 24th will be taken with a richer, deeper perspective. 
Steven C. Warner 
Office of Campus Ministry 
Calendar ofEvents 
. Freshman Retreat #25 (N Continuing through Nov. 1,~19~ Badin Half. Targeted Dorms: Alumnl,,af~n-~IHps, 9itlo~1Jslo Keough, Lyons, McGITnn, Pa$qufri~9 Wcfst,r;iricf'So, 
.~~10\~;. 
Afrlc;:entrlc Spirituality; Fresh 
Thursday, October 28, 7:00-8: Hos~itality Room 
Also Featuring the Notte Da 
Saturday, Octot;)er 9Q,J: Heart 
Africentric Spirituality St Sophomore Intro 
Sunday, October 31,l.ind 
JffaJ·:::-=/L=:i&:'.·:~--,,, >"-"'
Weekend Preslders --•··-· '•---­
at Sacred Heart Basilica Saturday, Octob~r_1Etftllass 
30 min. after thetgames .i> Rev. James Ues.,p.s.M, _--________ Sunday,-October 1.7 M'ss .· 
8:00a.m. 
Rev. Nicholas R. Ayo; C.S.C. 
10;00a.m. 
Rev.James Lies,.c,s.p. _ 
11:45a.m. 
Rev. Thomas-P. -Ooyle;'C.S,G. 
STEPAN CENTER 
Saturday, Octobfr.1.6 Mass 
45 mht after thegam¥?~ ­
Rev. Gary S. Chamberland, C.S.C,, . ,, 

.:-4/j~:;;,A.-:.:~:;i~:,/•i. 


Scripture Readings 
1st Reading l$aiah 45:1, 4-6 _ 2nd Reading 1Thessaloniani:~1:;.5t:)'.;C, '"':1,::n, Gospel Matthew 

---"""'"'"'"~"' 





-(Z\MPUS
"'11NISTRY 
. ' 
-, 
·l 
l
Thursday, October I 4, 1999 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
i 
1\s.ocia1ed Prcss 
WASIIINC;TON 
Members of Congress seek­ing to b,wst thnir campaign funds arc investing on Wall Struet to cash in 011 the eco­nomic boom. 
Most make modest returns on conservative invustments, but a handful can boast six­figure prolits. J\nd at least one lost the gamble: Former econ­om ist-lur ned-congrcssman Tom Campbell, H-Calif., lost a total of $56,379 in 1997 and 199S. 
Campbell "would rather 11ot talk about it," said his spokesman, Suhail Khan. llis invostmcnts are in tbe black this year, campaign reports show. 
While ll'"vmaknrs must dis­close their personal invest­ments annually, allowing vot­Ms to consider possible con• tlicts of interest. they arnn't required to detail where cam­paign dollars are invested. 
llousn and Senate members must report to the }•ederal 

Congress invests donors' money 
CIA opens doors to 
tions," Deutsch said. "It 

television networks 
"ft would be sort ofa dis­service to your contribu­tors not to figure out what is the maximum way to use the contributions." 
Peter Deutsch Congressman, D-Fla. 
Election Commission any gains or losses -even those just on paper -from invest• ments that range from Treasury notes to high-tech stocks. 
Hep. Peter Deutsch, D-Fla., said before he grew leery of the market and pulle.d. most of his money out this year, his campaign had money in such well-known companies as Microsoft, Coca-Cola, General Electric and Cisco Systems. 
He made $184,531 last year. 
"It would be sort of a disser­vice to your contributors not to figure out what is the maxi­mum way to use the contribu­
allows you spend more time 
working  for  your  con­ 
stituents."  
Deutsch even  called  one of  

his campaign's money man­agers. Meyer Berman, as a witness last yflar at a con­gressional hearing on trading rules. 
· "He is an expert.... He's been in Business Week and in Forbes," Deutsch said of Berman, \.vho took the con­gressman's campaign funds on a roller-coaster ride. 
Deutsch's campaign lost 
captured agency officer held by the North Koreans. Sixty off-duty CIA officials participated as extras. 
To mark the most extensive CIA cooperation with movie makers ever, the director of 

central intelligence, George Tenet, invited the film's stars -Tom Berenger, Ron Silver, Alice Krige, Clancy Brown and Arye Gross -as well as 
GOT A WORD 
FOR OUR TASTY NEW 
director Tim Matheson and Washington political luminar­ies to a private screening and reception Wednesday evening 
at CIA headquarters.

CHICKEN CLUB SANDWICH: 
Even in an era of more openness by the CIA, the idea of Hollywood stars descending 
(RAVEABLE. 
(Jr's NOT A REAL WORD, BUT WE 

THE TASTY (HICKEN CLUB IS HERE TO STAY, 
One bile of the delioous Chicken Cltil, and you'll always crave lhe flavor of its all-whlle·meal cl1icken topped with crispy bacon. tresh lettuce and tomato and mayonnaise. And !hat's no problem, because now this wltra-sat1stying sandw1cn 1s hereto slay al BURGER KING" So come on 1n and indulge your craving 
The Hu:ldle -Ltlfortune Stu<Jent Center PARTICIPATION MAY VARY. 
on the agency's wooded com­pound along the Potomac River was remarkable ­especially for those who work there. 
"It's a change of pace, an enjoyable, fun thing" for CIA employees who spend most of their careers behind cloaks of anonymity, said William Harlow, the agency's chief of public affairs. Only "overt" employees like him, 
$80,126 invested with 
"They hoped to see a whose names
opened its
Berman last year, but more 
are publicly
doors to human face put on the
than made up for it with 
acknowl· 
a l I o w· 
agency and we hadjust edged by the
other investments. Berman 
Showtime
was responsible for most of 
the story to do it. " agency, will 
a n d
Deutsch's $25,7:12 gain for 
attend.
Paramount
the first half of 1999, when 
Harlow
Network Roger Towne added.
his campaign treasury had 
Television
$1.7 million. 
executive producer The CIA 
A,sociatcd Press 
WASHINGTON 
If you think about it, the CIA and Hollvwood have a few things in common. Agents are actors. Spies follow scripts at times. Fiction is sometimes dressed up as fact. 
So mavbc it should come as no surp0rise that the usually publicity-shy Central (ntelligence Agency agreed to 
cooperate on the movie in 1997 after reviewing the script, Harlow said. It apparently helped that one of the producers, Robert Cort, had been a CIA analyst in the 1970s. Berenger and other cast members were given a limited tour of CIA headquarters, including a look at the agency's opera­tions center and counter-ter­rorism center, and met with Tenet. Scenes were filmed at the headquarters in 1998. 
The CIA helped by providing advice on details. The result, Harlow said, is a film that is "closer to the truth about what we do than most of the things you see about us in Hollywood." 
"The CIA's objectives were clear," said Roger Towne, the screenwriter who also was the film's executive producer. "They hoped to see a human face put on the agency and we had just the story to do it." 
In the last decade, candi­dates have gradually become more bullish about investing campaign contributions in stocks, said University of Virginia political scientist Larry Sabato. 
to film scenes for their new movie, "In the Company of Spies," in the agency's lobby and elsewhere on the closed compound. 
The film. scheduled to air on Showtime on Oct. 24, depicts a retired CIA opera­tive returned to duty to save a 


Notte Dame 
LIKE IT.) 




Habitat (ot Humanity 
Invites you to join the Fall Break Build 
Everyone invited 

Sunday-Welcome party 7 pm Monday-Friday framing, roofing, siding, 8 am-' 4 pm 
*free breakfast and lunch, and dinner provided 2 nights *transportation to and from site provided 
We prefer people lo work all week, but will take people for a couple ofdays (especially Monday and Tue.vday) 
£-mail Greg at gl1engeho(a.!11d. erlu 

IT JUST TASTES bETTER: 
www b1,rgerk1ng corn 

. ' ' ' . 
Thursday, Occober 14, 1999
The Obser11er . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

.con1 .coin 
.GOTTl 


.com n1


' 







.com .com .corn .con1 





,·11 ' 








Why work for one .com, when you can work for hundreds? 
.con1 





.com 






.com. .corn 
.con1 

.cc, 
.com .corn 
.corn 
.corn .con1 






.con1 corn .corn 



,com 






FORTUNE You haven't gotten this far by limiting 10~~~ 1• your possibilities. And if you want to 
~NIES
Til WIIIK fOII go even farther, consider the possibilities at Ernst & Young. You'll have access to some of the most sophisticated tool·s in the technology industry and work with some of the companies that help define it. Log on. www.ey.com 



~corn 

Thursday, Occober I 4, 1999 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 11 
RUSSIA 

Chechen rebels endure bombing 
A..sodatcd Press 
GHOZNY 
While Hussian forces pound,:d Chedwn rebel posi­tions around lhn capital of Grozny on Wmhwsday, hun­drnds of volunteers gathered in the city to head off to hat­Lio and olhers stood guard, arnrnd with grenade-launch­ers. 
The huavy prnsence of sea­soned fight­ers in 
"ft will all end in peace 
Groznv of bombingsunderlinecl talks. but thousands of in Russia ChBchen that killed
soldiers will die .first." 
prnsident some 300 /\ s I a n people.Maskhadov's Asian Maskhadov Russian 
claim thal Chechen president forces appar­
Chechnya is dtitnrminnd to prevail against tlw largPr and lrntter-cquip(led Hussian army. 
llussia "will come hem to have peacp talks with us. ll will all end in 1wacn talks," 
Maskhadov predicted in an intnrvinw published with the Hussian nmvspapnr Vremya. 
"But thousands of soldiers will die first," Maskhadov said. 
Tlw Hussian army has a!'LPd gingerly in its thrne­WP11k ground campaign, rely­ing on air strikes and artillery shelling to soften up rebel positions in the hills and mountains of southern Chechnya befon~ sPnding in troops. 
The Hussians moved into Chechnya to establish a secu­rity zone to prevent Chechen militants from invading othrr regions in southern Hussia, following two incursions by Chechnya-based lslamk mili­tants into neighboring Dagcstan. The militants are also suspect­ed in a series 
ently have 
control of the 
[lat and open northern third of the repub0 lie. and are venturing into the central and southern sectors where the terrain makes them more vulnerable to guerrilla attacks. 
In the 1994-96 Chechnya war. Russia suffered devas­tating losses in street fighting in Grozny and the army has not ventured into the capital in this campaign. Hussia launched heavy air strikes on Grozny in September. but in recent days the city has been spared. 
WEST BANK 


Palestine targets illegal weapons 
Associated Press 
NABLUS 
Gun control campaigner Loay Abdo awoke to the stac­cato of semiautomatic fire, and found the iron door of his homo in the crowded market aroa of Nablus riddled with bullets. 
Abdo said the weekend attack was an attempt by armed men ruling the streets of the West Bank's largest city to silence his demands for a weapons cleanup. 
Responding to growing pub­lic frus.tration with lawless­ness, Palestinian leader Vasser Arafat has taken reluc­tant steps to restore order, sending in troop reinforce­ments and ordering more than a dozen arms dealers arrest­ed. 
Nablus is a test case, and tho campaign against illegal weapons -mandated by the peace agreements with Israel -will eventually spread to other Palestinian cities, Araf"at's aides say. 
But critics say the crack­down bas been halfhearted and ineffective. Fearing more bloodshed, police stayed out of two vigilante strongholds ­the Balata refugee camp near Nablus and the Nablus market -and only a few illegal weapons have been seized. 
And, some say, the biggest arms suppliers have not been targeted because they have c Io s e . ties-to Ara fat· s 
"Everyone has a militia, weapons and thugs." 
Loay Abdo Gun control campaigner 
Palestinian Authority. 
In Balata, a shanty town of 20,000 people packed into 60 acres of shacks and half-built apartment complexes. dealers have slipped underground for the time being. But the well­connected can still make pur­chases, according to Jihad lzzat, a leader of Arafat's Fatah movement in the camp. 
Only a few months ago, Balata was a supermarket of pistols, semiautomatic rifles and ammunition. Dealers eagerly displayed their wares to strangers and rattled off prices. The 700 members of Arafat's ser:urity forces living in the camp either turned a blind eye or, in some cases, helped make the sales. 
The cozy arrangement began falling apart on Sept. 15, when two Fatah activists from Balata cruised a wedding hall in Nablus and were accused by the hosts, from the Nablus­based Abu Salhiyeh family, of harassing female guests. 
The argument escalated into fist fights and a day later, three Fatah men from Balata, wearing masks and black Ninja costumes, pulled up at a Nablus butcher shop owned by the Abu Salhiyeh clan and sprayed it with bullets. Basbar Abu Salhiyeh, accused by the Balata squad of beating one of them a day earlier, was wounded in the legs. 
Enraged, half a dozen of Bashar's relatives, also Falah activists, took to the central square, shooting in the air and forcing downtown shops to close for several hours. 
Arafat, who has ignored Israel's appeals to seize illegal weapons, apparently felt the display of firepower had gone too far. 
lie ordered troops from other towns to deploy in Nablus and had 17 suspected dealers and vigilantes -Fatah activists or members of his security forces -arrested. 
Nablus Gov. Mahmoud Alu! told a town hall meeting Monday riight that from now on members of the security services and Fatab would not be allowed to take weapons home. 
Abdo, a senior Fatah figure who spent 10 years in an Israeli jail for a botched 1975 terror attack at Tel /\viv's air­port, said security officials weren't really serious about rounding up weapons. 
Leaders of rival security forces have been hoarding arms to consolidate power and prepare for a possibly bloody succession battle once Arafat dies or steps aside, he said. "Everyone has a militia, weapons and thugs." 
TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR 2000-200l SCHOOL TERM PLEASE STOP IN TODAY 

. t 




VIEWPOINT 
page 12 OBSERVER Thursday, October 14, 1999 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O.'Box Q. Notre Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Michelle Krupa 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
M. Shannon Ryan  David Rogero  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  
Laura Perelle  

NEWS EDITOR, Tim Logan 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughen 
·sroRTS EDITOR: Brian Kessler 
Sr.ENE EDITOR: Michael Vanegas 
SAINT MARv's EDITOR, Noreen Gillespie 
PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Datum 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Bryan Lutz 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Brer Huelar 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mic:hael Revers 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kushm 
CONTROLLER: Timothy Lane 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFO.. ............631-7 4 71 FAX....................... ..................................... 631-6927 ADVERTISING .....................................631-6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF ........................................ 631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAsST. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFHCE... .....................................631-53 l 3 NEWS.. ... . ...........................................631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS......................................................631-4543 observer.spom. l@nd.edu SCENE....................................................... ..631--4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. L@nd.edu PHOTO .......................................................631-8767 SYSTJ;MS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/mw.ic foJ
weather for up -to 
weekly student reviews
-the minute fore­
casts 
online features for spe­
adverilie for policies 
cial campus coverage 
and rates ofprint ads 
about The Observer 
archives to search for 
to meet the editors and 
arrides published after 
staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of rhe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary·s Colleie: Editorial content is not governed by policies of 
the administration ofeither institution. Acting as pub­lisher ofThe Observer. the administration ofthe Universicy of Notre Dame du Lac prohibits the adver­tisement ofalcohol and The Observer's acceptance of advertisements from specified types of groups. 
The news is reported as accuracely and objectively as possible. Unsigned edimrials represent the opinion of the majority ofrhc Editor in Chief, Managing Editor. Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the auchors and nor necessarily chose ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Qum,om regarding Obseroerpolzcies should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefMichelle Kmpn. 
Unions, Organizing and Jubilee Justice 
Playing poker in the lunchroom, my dad boasted, "Yeah, I told you Randy would never cut it -he was here one week and left whining about his swollen hands. Or Tic's kid; not like his old man. He made it only three days Jay Caponigrowith me and left the dock for a job at McIJonald's." 
I kept my cards For a More Just and my fears to and Humane myself. Loading World trucks was my dad's work. Not that he liked it, but he worked hard and he expected his "runner" to work harder. Some days he worked three jobs, working 24 hours straight to put his six children through Catholic schools. But now I was working with him. I had just gotten accepted into Notre Dame, and knew it was now my responsibility to pay my way. My dad's contribution was "to get me in" to work on the docks. Given mv dad's integrity, I knew he'd work me · harder than anyone he'd worked with before -no favoritism here -if he busted on Tic's kid, he'd bust on his own. He had a reputation to keep up. 
He also kept on me because I was underage, and not in the union. My dad was a Te.amster, as were most of the men on the dock. And as a casual worker, l was, in effect, a scab. Lucky for me, most guys hated the union more than thev hated my dad. As "Billy's kid,".I was razzed until I figurnd out the job, and proved I could keep up. 
But the ambiguity toward the union puzzled me. My father received health and pension benefits from the union. His wages were better than at non-union companies, and, in fact, the union had saved his and oth­ers' jobs in the past when the company tried to bust the contract. So why the antipathy? 
I learned on the docks, and f've learned since graduating, the value of organizing, whether on the job or in the community. Organizing brings strength; it puts you at the table where the deci­sions are made. But if you're not care­ful, it can also cause corruption. 
That's the attitude I perceived from my fellow workers and my dad. "The union's as corrupt as the company," they'd complain, and in part, they were right. But they weren't ready to give it up -without it, they'd have no protec­tion and they knew .it. They were cau­tious when the federal government stepped in to address the questionable links to the mob, as well as the use of their pension funds. Their excitement began to grow as new leadership emerged and began to make the union more visible, and more accessible. Now leadership has changed again, but this time the union has turned a curve. Growth is projected and workers are confident. But how will labor escape the pitfalls of the past? 
Work is more than income. In the first chapter of the first book shared in the Jewish and Christian tradition, the human person is lifted up as the most sacred part of creation. Created in God's image and likeness, we are called to be in relationship with God as co-cre­ators through our labor. 
Through The Book ofConfessions. the Presbyterian tradition teaches that work binds us in family and communi­ty. The Methodist Book ofResolutions leaches that "society should provide employment under safe and decent conditions so that the dignity of work­ers can be elevated and their creativity exercised." 
In the Catholic tradition, Pope John Paul H's Encyclical On the Hundredth Anniversary ofRerum Novarum out­lines how the Catholic Social Traditions penned 100 years prior by Leo XIII, were still relevant; indeed, were still urgent in the modern economy. He writes"... it is still possible today, as in 
the days of 
Rerum 
Novarwn, to speak of inhuman exploitation. In spite of great changes ... the human inade­quacies of capitalism and the resulting domination of things over people are far from disappearing." Instead, the goal of a Christian society is to build up "a more decent life through united labor, of concretely enhancing every individual's dignity and creativity, as well as his capacity to respond to his personal vocation, and thus to God's call." 
John Paul reminds us specifically of the Second Vatican Council teachings on labor in the encyclical, On Human Work. When a person " ... works, he not only alters things and society, he devel­ops himself as well. This kind of growth is of greater value than any external riches which can be garnered ... " For this to be realized, trade unions have a concrete role to play in society writes the Pope. "It is always to be hoped that, thanks to the work of their unions. workers will not only have more, but above all be more: in otll(. r words that they will realize their humanity more fully in every respect." 
This week, three Notre Dame stu­dents will be returning from a national interfaith conference organized by reli­gious and labor leaders to discuss new partnerships to promote and enhance the dignity of workers around the globe. It is in partnerships like these that the unions have their future. And if this conference is any indication, thev, like their religious counterparts, are· beginning t.o understand this. 
Key religious leaders, such as Monsignor George Higgins, or Monsignor Jack Egan, have long called on labor to formulate a deeper under­standing of human nature, and a more thorough appreciation of Catholic Social Traditions. Unions are now responding. And they are challenging the church leaders .to a more sophisticated analysis of the global economy and of organizing for power. The alliance is tentative, but coming together in the next millennium offers the hope that "Economic Justice for All" might move from the written page to become economic reality for the working poor, as well as the poorest of the poor. 
Together, labor unions and the 
church arc positioned to provide a 
meaningful bulwark for families 
across the globe faced with the 
"inadequacies of capitalism." These 
include desperate families depend­
ing on labor in sweatshops, the 
poor who have seen jobs disap­
pear from the inner cities of 
America, or those middle-aged 
white men who have lost their jobs 
to corporate downsizing. 
So you might rightly ask if I'll 
show this article to my father. I can 
see him reading it aloud to the other workers, laughing about the sacredness of loading freight onto trucks at 2 a.m. But I remain undeterred -a little piece of my father went out on every truck he loaded the night before. That he was not treated with dignity you can see in his calloused hands, his swollen feet and a hardened attitude. 
As for the poker game, well, I guess I was finally "called" and now I have shown my hand in favor of the workers. A Catholic notion of Jubilee Justice requires no less of each of us. 
Jay Caponigro is a '91 ND grad in Government and International Studies. He is currently Director of Urban Programs and Justice Education at the Center for Social Concerns where he plays a key role in "calling us all to service and action for a more just and humane world. " 
For a More Just and Humane World 
is a bi-weekly column sponsored by the 
Center for Social Concerns. Comments 
and discussions are welcome at 
ND.ndcntrsc.1@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column 
are those of the author and not neces­
sarily those ofthe Observer. 
DILBERT 
OUR COMPANY NEWS­LETTER HAS REPORTS OF BIZARRE WORK­PLACE CRIMES. 
SCOTT ADAMS  
I'\/£ NE.VER THOU<:iHT OF THESE CRIMES BEFORE, BUT NOW I HAVE THE URGE. TO BE A COPYCAT.  THANK GOOON£.SS MY PARENTS RAISED l"\E TO BE LAZY.  

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Men love war because it allows them to look serious. It is the one thing that stops women laughing at them." 
John Fowles author, The Magus 
___,._.,.........,.,.q-.,,2-<!"l_____..,_____,01111""'··-..,
r--------i:----.....,-.... ...,-....:.::-•---·-•··---,,,------•----------------------w-•-"'·--""U&D__.,._,.,.., 
O
THE 
Thursday, October I4, 1999 BSERVER 




VIEWPOINT 
page 13 
iming proud and unapologetic for linding orrn's mnolional fu11illnH1nt in a relationship with a person of the same sex. 
Coming out is important because it helps ev11rymw see the good that can come from a homosexual orientation. Bishop Gumhlnwn writr.s, "l hopn that within our church every gay pm·son, evnry lesbian per­son. cv1iry bisexual person. or transgcn­dered 1wrson will come out, bncause that is how our church is going to truly changu. I would say this 11spncially tn priests and bishops in our church." The change hr. hop1is for lwre is thut the church might conw lo apprnciaW the objective good of llw capacity to low ollrnrs deeply. Urn 1·apaeity that lies at tlw core of all sexuality -lwmosnxuality included. 
Thn catPr.llism rPduces sexuality to a dis­position to usn onn's gPnitals in orw way or tlw otlt!ir. This rnduct.ive premise is t.hn ground of' tlw clrnrd1 's claim that homosex­uality is an objective disorder. Ono can accept that this physiological disposition is disordpred and still find value in homosex­uality as a psychological and affective dis­position. Orw only needs to look beyond the gPnitals to the whole pPrson. Think ahout it. I low could a capacity to love another human being very detiply. und to dcrivfl a rl1\Hp and abiding satisfaction from that 

Russian invasion of Chechnya as terrorism scapegoat feeds cycle of needless violence 
lteccnt events in Hussia provide a per­fect nxample of how regressively Machiavnllian the world has become. 
Devastated by a series of terrorist explosions in Moscow and Volgodonsk that killed morn than 300 civilians, 
Elizabeth Kohl
Hussia has· 
responded by find­
ing someone to 
The Battalion, 
blame and issuing 
Texas A. & M.
full retaliation against the scapn­goat. 
Over llrn past two weeks. the republic of Chechnya has faced Hussian air strikes which have killed an estimated 300 Chechen civilians, many of whom wnre children. Today in the former Soviet Union. restitution is no longer an ,,ye for an eye, but ono innocent life for another. 
Until this reLributive attitude is cor­rectnd, tlrn cycle of' viol on co in Russia and nlsowherc will not stop. 
In responsl' to the Moscow and Volgodonsk bombings, the Hussian gov­ernment implemented Operation Whirlwind, arrnsting 100 individuals and claiming to have identified the ter­rorists responsible. 
In further response, late last week, Hussia captured Nadir Khachilayev, who is believed to be responsible for direct­ing the attacks. 
In a day and age in which every major nation has a special-forces unit, howev­er. it was totally unnecflssary for so many Chechens to suffer so the Russian government could flush out the few accountable individuals. Russian air strikes have gone beyond simply killing Chechens. After the first onslaught of bombs, about 120,000 refugees fled the region. These people will face a harsh winter in makeshift camps, reliant on the generosity of others to stay alive. 
Ironically, it is now the Hussi.ans who are offering aid to those they have forced to the streets. As rofligee camps are set up, Chechens are forced to accept help from those who caused their homelessness. It was inevitable the air strikes would result in waves of Chechen refugees. The Hussian gov_ernment could not have expect~d civilians to stay home as their neighbors were killed by Kremlin bombs. An already strained Russian economy has now·been bur­dened by the humanitarian care·-of these Chechen refugees. 
Because the Kremlin chose revenge over peace and justice, they have insured many more will die until one side gives in. The events between Russia and Chechnya are simply another exam­ple of violence begetting violence. Russian troops now occupy nearly half' of Chechnya, and CNN reports that Muslim clerics in Chechnya are expected to call for a holy war. Tension is mount­ing, and communication skills on both sides seem to have regressed to those of toddlers. 
Russia and Chechnya are so far from considering peace that many events between the two countries have bJJen orchestrated to gain public support for the conflict. With malicious intent, Russia used the bombings in Moscow and Volgodonsk to promote anti­Chechen sentiments. 
A video depicting the abuse of Hussian soldiers by Chechen rebels surfaced recently, sealing the Hussian peopl's support of the bombings in Chechnya. The events taking place between Hussia and Chechnya are hardly uniqM on a world scale, as the actions taken by both sides were conducted in a textbook fash­ion. 
One country bombs another, then the bombed country lights back. Hefugees flee, and in the end, the United Nations sends in peacekeeping forces because both countries are incapable of resolv­ing the situation on their own. This con­flict, like those occurring in East Timor and the former Yugoslavia, typifies glob­al response to old ethnic grudges. Neither side seems able to put the past behind them or resolve their difference once and for all. Instead, they turn to violence and further the chaos that already exists. Until it is realized that peace is its own greatest reward, this world will continue to suffer irreplace­able losses. 
It is time nations stopped playing with their big guns and started to regain their communication skills. 
This column originally ran in the Texas A&M newspaper, The Battalion, on Oct. 12. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not nPces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


These are our public 
loves and private lives 
Monday was Nalional Coming Out Day, a love be disordered? That's what homosex­day for gays and l1lsbians to n~lebratc the uality is though. It's Uw fact of finding one's public declaration of their sexuality. Using deepest emotional needs mr,t by members c11nslirvaLivn nstimatns of the incidencti uf of the same sex (and for most homosexuals homosexuality. one would expect thorn lo only by members or the same sex). be about 600 homosexual students and Catholics need to learn to see the good in about JO homosexual priests at Notrn homosexual relationships, and put an end !lame. So wlwr,~ wl'rn all of you Monday'! to an unjust preoccupation with the details 
Coming out isn't telling tho world about of our sexual lives. When one sees young whom one sleeps with or what one intMds men and women holding hands on the Ln do with 011P's sex quad, one tends to see organs. It's about homo­the good of those rela­
"'Homosexuals deserve 
Sl'Xtia ls claiming t.lw tionships rather than Sil.Ille sort of public opcn­the same presumption of dwelling on the likeli­rrnss for thnir rnlalion­innocence. the sa.me prin­hood that fornication is ships that straight pPople ciple ofcharity, the same occurring. Homosexuals mijoy. It's about not hid­deserve the same pre­
sphere ofprivacy where 
ing onp's affectivn lifo sumption of innocence,
the intimate life ofothers
behind lios or clorm­the same principle of room doors. It's about is concerned." charity, the same sphere 
U.S. should treat ethnic cleansing consistently 
When an estimated 2000 people had been killed in Kosovo, the United States called it ethnic cleansing, then threatened military force, and finally bombed Yugoslavia for over two months. When 100 times that number of people have been killed in East Timor, the U.,S, response is much more muted. There are no threats to bomb Jakarta or invade Indonesia. 
I was somewhat surprised to actually notice mention of this dou­ble standard in the U.S. media. Usually, they just ignore inconve­nient facts like this. However, they attempt to rationalize this double standard with explanations like it is due to oversights, mistakes, fick­leness, absentmindedness or even stupidity.The people who pay the politicians campaign expenses and who own and control so much of this planets resources arc not absentminded, nor are they stupid. 
Yugoslavia was bombed because it was the last socialist state in Europe and was failing to imple­ment the IMF austerity measures 
of p6vacy where the inti­mate lil'c of others is con­cerned. 
This community wants to deny our rela­tionships their public face while at the same time denying us our privacy. It pres­sures us t.o keep our relationships invisible, yet dwells almost pruriently on what we do with our sex organs. Ilow would you like it ifwe heckled you on the quad while walk­ing too close to your girlfriend, and then went on and on about the grave evil of for­nication, etc.'! 
In the pastoral letter "Always Our Children," the American Catholic bishops wrote concerning homosexual children, 'This child. who has always been God's gift to you. may now be thn cause of another gift: your family becoming more honest, respecll'ul, and supportivr.." This is a morn! clmlltmge: to get pasL prejudices to learn to be honest and op<m about the needs of the heart, respectful or the privacy of others and supportive ol' everyone in their search for affection and emotional fulfillment. 
Tim Byrne 
Graduate Srndem 
Department of Philosophy 
October 1 I, 1999 
and privatize and deregulate all state-owned ,mt!~rprises, including their media system. Indonesia is not bombed because it is a capital­ist country and has invited in many American based multinational cor­porations like Nike, which take advantagn of the very cheap labor. Also, Suharto destroyed the Indonesian Communist Party in 1965 in one or the greatest slaugh­ters of Urn 20th century. killing an estimated one million people. Incidentally, lists of dissidents to be executed were provided to the Indonesians by the American Embassy. These things have made Indonesia a very valued ally of the United States and very unlikely to be bombed. 
Of course, this explanation can never be given to the American people in the major media. It is too logical and consistent with history and might actually influence a few people. 
Gary Sudborough Bellflower, CA October 6, 1999 



r-,-------=------...,,..,.------------~-----~------­
t 


M 
c~ne E 
j. 
O
THE page 14 BSERVER Thursday, October 14, 1999 
MOVIE REVIEW 
SNL's Shannon becomes movie 'Superstar' 
By CASEY McCLUSKEY 
Scene Movie Critic 
Saturday Night Live has a history of exposing young comics to the world and giving many the break they need to make it in Hollywood. SNL's newest prodigy is Cleveland native Molly Shannon. The movie "Superstar" is based on Shannon's character Mary Katherine Gallagher, whom Shannon introduced to the world on SNL a few 
seasons ago. "Superstar" every dream if she 
Mary Katherine is can only convince an Irish Catholic 
him of her super­school girl who stardom. dreams of receiving The transition of her first big ~big out offive shamrocks Mary Katherine screen" kiss that from small screen she has witnessed to big screen is so many times in all pretty fluid. It does
Director: Bruce McCulloch
of the movies she not fall into the 
watches. When Starring: Molly Shannon, Will same trap that prayer does not Ferrell, Elaine Hendrix, Harland Williams many SNL charac­
seem to work to get
this first kiss, Mary and Mark McKinney Katherine decides it is time to take things into her own hands. To get that first Hollywood-style kiss. Marv Katherine believes she must get a litti"e Hollywood style of her own and become a superstar. Marv Katherine learns how to be a superstar by watching every movie she rewinds in her after-school job ;,ts the rewind-girl at the local video rental store. She often believes that she can best express herself through mono­logues from her favorite made-for-TV movies. and breaks out into these dra­matic monologues, which are hilarious because tlrny really don't hav~ any­thing to do wilh anything. After study­ing these movies, Mary Katharine practices the art of kissing on anything that will stand still, in particular trees and traffic posts. Mary Katherine's first 'big break' comes when she learns that Catholic Teen Magazine is holding a talent con­
test and the winner gets to go to Hollywood and have a chance at appearing in a movie that has fine, upstanding role models. Surely if Mary Katherine can win this contest and ful­fill her superstar dream, the boys will be lining up to kiss her -particularly Sky Corrigan. played by Will Ferrel. Sky Corrigan is the best dancer at St. Monica's, the captain of the football team and the epitome of Mary Katherine's leading man. She is sure that Sky will be able to fulfill hAr 
ters who have 
made their own 
movies have in the past. This movie does include some of the same jokes from SNL, such as Mary Katherine's nervous habit of smelling he.r armpits and falling into everything around her, because that is how people have come to know and love her. But it does not go over the top though with these gags, and adds new things to laugh at. 
One great aspect of the film is that none of the other characters are from the SNL skit that the movie is based on. The new characters are a fresh look at some of the stereotypes that exist in high schools today. Por exam­ple, "Superstar" does not have the stereotypical burnout, but rather a kid who just pretends that he is high all the time because he is too scared to actually do drugs. 
The film is a great farce of Catholic schools, and any Notre Dame or Saint Mary's student can surely appreciate 

Molly Shannon (right) stars as Mary Katherine Gallagher in "Superstar," the big-screen version of the Saturday Night Live skit. 
many of these inside jokes. Some of the funniest scenes come in the confession­als and the after-school activities that could only take place in a Catholic school. 
This is the perfect time to go see this film, too. The movie is only an 90 min­utes, and is a groat study break during midterms. It takes very little brain power to watch the film (although keep an eye on the all of the cars in the background of the movie -something strange is going on there), and the film's humor will relieve stress. It is also great for fall break, because of the hroad audience appeal the movie has. 
"Superstar" is a movie that you r.an go see with your family when you are home. You can go see it on a date or with a bunch of friends from high school. It has something for everyone. 
And though "Superstar" is not on the same level as SNL's most successful adaptation, "Wayne's World." it is defi­nitely a success for Saturday Night Live. 
VIDEO PICK OF THE WEEK 
McMullen brotherhood entertains everyon_e 
By JOE LARSON 
Scene Movie Criric 
Ever wonder what a movie about your family would look like -a movie about you and your brothers or sisters talking about what's going on in your life? The movie wouldn't have any special effects or explosions, just real stuff that has happened in your life. 
"The Brothers 
McMullen" is
"The Brothers 
writer/director Edward Burns'

McMullen" 
first of three movies about reg­ular people and


Director: Edward Burns 
their struggles
Starring: Edward Burns, Mike 
with life, winning McGlone, Jack Mulcahi, Shari Albert Best Movie at_ the Sundance Film
and Maxine Bahns 
Festival in 1995. 
The movie, and the other popular indie film, Kevin Smith's "Clerks," jumpstarted the independent movie craze; which paired low budgets and first-time directors with orig­inal ideas. The film catapulted Edward Burns into a major Hollywood actor/director. 
"The Brothers McMullen" is the story of three Irish-Catholic brothers from New York whose father was a drunk and whose mother, after their father died, moved back to Ireland to be with her true love. The film follows these brothers through their lives and watches them face normal, life decisions about their significant others that end up affecting their entire lives. 
The oldest brother, Jack, has been married for five years, but is scared to have kids with his wife {Connie Briton). He is also faced with the temptation of another woman. 
The second brother, Finbar (Edward Burns), is a writer who is afraid of any relationship with a woman because of his wandering eye and fear of commitment. He meets a beautiful, young woman 
(Maxine Bahns) and is forced to deal with what might be his only chance at true love. 
The youngest broth­er, Patrick (Mike McGlone). is graduat­ing from college and afraid of what he's going to do with his life (a common feeling here at Notre Dame). 1le is also dealing with a relationship he feels has grow stale, but doesn't know for sure it has. After the three brothers get forced to move into their old house together, the viewer watches these three brothers try to solve their problems and eventually try to find what they're looking for. 

But the film isn't just about three guys trying figure out their wives/girlfriends. It's about f'am ily. Throughout the movie, the film depicts the brothers interacting and helping each other along the way, which leads to hilarious commentaries by each of them. The brothers tackle everything from presi­dents to religion. 
Thus the movie is centered around the discussions had by the three brothers. It stresses the friendships built. between the them, because even with Jack's brashness, Finbar's sarcasm and Patrick's neurosis, they are still able to stay together and help one another. Though the brothers ultimately try to help their brothers with their respective dilemmas, they don't simply offer advice, but add a little good­natured ribbing and some great philosophies along the wav. 
The funniest parts of the film are when Finbar is advising Patrick on his relationship with his girl­friend, who has broken up with him before he got a chance to break up with her. Finbar expounds on Patrick's good fortune and then makes an interesting parallel between women and breakfast cereal. 
"The Brothers McMullen" is a hilarinus look at family and relationships in the '90s. Edward Burns· depiction of the New York brothers is totally believ­able and easily relatable to conversations everyone may have with their family and friends. This is a movie that you can watch with your buddies, with your date or with your family. It's a great movie and it is recommended to anyone in any mood. 
a J . WJUS! 5U C&il C
.a a -a a 
I , 
.., 
• 
1 
i 
I 
I 
4 M 
c~ne E l 4 
O
THE Thursday, October 14, 1999 BSERVER page 15 
MOVIE REVIEW 




Jumbled 'Hearts' plot runs dumb 
By JILLIAN DEPAUi. Seen,· Movie Critic 
The new mystery-drama "Random lh1arts" stars Harrison Ford and Kristin Scott Thllmas as two peoplH who, after losing tlwir spouses in an airplane crash. discov11r that the deceased were having an affair wilh one another. This plot pllinl is rnvAalcd within the first 30 minutns of this unnect->ssarily long movie (2 l/2 hours fonliug mori\ like 10 hours). 
o,w would expect Urn mystery part of this 111yst1•ry-drama to end them, and tlw drama to kick in, but inexplicably, Dutch I llarrison 

Ford) contintws to quest for the truth
"Random Hearts"
suarch for clues at all costs clashes ahout Uw forPgone with hm determina­rnnclusio11 through-
lion to put these out lhn movie. events behind her l'nrhaps ht-> is and move on. These 
0111 offiol? shamrocks
searching for an two aro not exactly nxcuse as to why this a match made in movi1\ sub,i1!1·ts audi­heaven. nrn•ps to its own con­Director: Sydney Pollack In all fairness, 
!'usPd and bPlabored Dutch's marriage
Starring: Harrison Ford, Kristen Scott 
nxisWnw. But what.­seemed to be a lov­
Thomas, Charles Dutton and Bonnie Hunt
PVPr t.lw reason may ing marriage, and it 
meaningless subplot about an Internal Affairs investigation. It is unfathomable why this aspect of the lllm made it past the editing stages, except for the pur­pose of converging the two storylines in order to, at lnng last, bring about the ending of the film, which was going nowhere and hobbling there. 
Thomas' character Kay Chandler, on the other hand, is so wrapped up in pre­serving her public image and nobly pro­tecting her teenage daughter· that her character chooses never to deal with either her husband's death nor the fact that he was having an affair. When Dutch approaches her about their 
spouses' affair, his 
bt•, it is tough to mak1• pcopl1\ earn about it for very long, Psp1icially since the characters in the movie am unoriginal, and the plot nwandcrs aimlessly and awkwardly. 
F11rd is Billy Van Den Brom:k, "Dutch," a s1irgca11l in tht' Washington D.C. lnl(\l'lllll Affairs division, and Kristin Scn\t Thomas is Kay Spencer-Chandler. a New llampshire Congrnsswoman and mutlH'r of' a l ;1-year-old daughter. Thc lilm is dirnl'tnl by Sydmiy Pollack, the PXJW!'il'IIU!d a11d sucrnssful dirnctor of sud1 Anwrican classics as "Tlw Way W£i W1•rn," "Oul of Africa'' and "Tontsie." It is a sbamn that tlw collaboration or thrP1· of' llw classinst talonts in llollywood yiiilds such a disappninting rc•stilt. PSJwi:ially since some potential /'or an Pxcdlt-nt movk can Im detected in ltw ruins. 
Dutl'h and Kay meet wlrnn it is discov­PrNI t!rnl his wifr\ and linr husband were lravPling togl\tlwr und(ir the pretense of !wing a married couple. What could be an int(irnsting storylinn is spoiled through luck of l'nrus and misdirection, and tlw characters are so weighed down by random distractions that they have 1111 opportunity lo develop any depth. 
llarrison Ford's character is strapped with the maniacal obsession of finding out every last detail of his beloved wife's adulterous actions, not to mention a 
came as quite a shock to him when he found out that his wife was lying to him. while Chandler's marriage seemed to be merely for show, since Kay was not extremely surprised that her husband was two-timing her. 
This may help to explain the two dras­tically different reactions to similar situ­ations. It does not explain, though, the mysterious attraction betwmm the two of them, which results in one of the most preposterous physical fighting/make-out session in a car scenes that has ever been put on film. These scenes should really not be allowed in movies anymore -tl1ey are sending a bad vibe io the "parking" youth of America.. 
Surprisingly enough, once these two characters are stripped of their badges and campaigns. they turn out to be lik­able people who actually have some decent chemistry between them. The romance that develops between them whr~n they are alone togethfff, although unlikely, is somewhat sweet. Unfortunately, them are not nearly enough scenes with just the two of these characters, away from their worldly dis­tractions, and by the time the film gets to them, half the audience is lost or asleep. 
The bottom line is that despite a decent amount of potential. "Random Hearts" crashes and burns. 
Box OFFICE 

"Double Jeopardy?" More like triple Jeop­ardy. The thriller edged out new fllm "Random hearts" to take the top spot at the box office for the third straight week. The other new film at the box office, "Superstar," came in at the No. 5 spot, with a solid $8. 9 mil­
lion. 
Pholo courtesy or Paramount Pictures 
Pholo courtesy of Columbia Piclures 
Harrison Ford and Kristen Scott Thomas star as lovers who meet when their cheating spouses are killed In a plane crash. 
~ 
Movie Title 
1. 
Double Jeopardy 

2. 
Random Hearts 

3. 
Three Kings 

4. 
American Beauty 

5. 
Superstar 

6. 
The Sixth Sense 

7. 
Blue Streak 

8. 
Drive Me Crazy 







el'M 
Weekend Sales 
$ 13.5 million $ 13.0 million $ 12.0 million $ 9.5 million $ 8.9 million $ 6.1 million $ 5. 7 million $ 4.0 million 
9. 10.  The Adventures of Elmo in Grouchland For Love of the Game  $ 2.3 million $ 2.1 million  
Source: Yahoo  

-­ 
8-IO  
Total Sales  
$ 65.8 million $ 13.6 million $ 32.7 million $ 31.1 million $ 8.9 million $ 242. 7 million $ 55.2 million $ 11.8 million $ 6.2 million  -..  
$ 31.5 million  

p::~~--•----llll!!---=•----11111111•.--••zcc---~-=-:--,,..,.._www--:-,'""'--"'•-•---------=------..w-,....________c_____._,..._....,._____.......---..,,...,.--=---:-------­
r . , i' 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, October 14, 1999 
NATIONAL LEAGUE CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES 

Perez, Jordan lead braves to 2-0 edge in series with Mets 
With the smoke from the fireworks set off 
Associared Press 
after Jordan's shot still drifting across the field, Perez launched a drive into the left­
All of a sudden, that injury to All-Star field seats. catcher Javy Lopez is hurting the New York · Mets manager Bobby Valentine, who had Mets a lot more than the Atlanta Braves. Turk Wendell warming up, threw his hat 
Backup Eddie Perez reprised his role as the and kicked the air as Perez circled the bases. unlikely hero. teaming with Brian Jordan to Up to that point, it had been a good day for hit two-run homers in the sixth inning and New York. It had its own surprise star ­lead Kevin Millwood and the Braves over the Melvin Mora hit his first major league homer Mets 4-3 Wednesday for a 2-0 lead in the NL after replacing the ill Rickey Henderson Championship Series. midgame -and Rogers had managed to 
Showing how serious they are, the Braves stay out of trouble. brought in John Smoltz for the first relief Millwood. who pitched a one-hitter in the appearance of his major league career that first round against Houston, gave up an RBI began in 1988. single in the second to Roger Cedeno. 
The Game 4 starter pitched a perfect ninth Mora entered in left field in the bottom for a save. half of the inning when Henderson was 
Perez, who took over full time after Lopez forced to leave because of nausea and a light was lost for the year to a knee problem in head. late July, had not homered .at Turner Field In an unusual sight, Mora was throwing in this season until connecting Tuesday night in the dugout tu get loose before getting the a 4-2 victory in the opener. call. 
Lopez got a big cheer when he threw out Mora homered in the fifth for a 2-0 lead. A the ceremonial first ball before Game 2, yet it• late-season spark for the Mets, Mora had was Perez that had the crowd of 44,624 come a long way s.ince starting the 1998 sea­chanting "Ed-die! Ed-die!" after he delivered son· playing in Taiwan. again. The Mets' big hitters, however, did little. 
The lightning strike ruined an afternoon for Mike Piazza, Olerud and Ventura combined the Mets in which most everything seemed to to go O-for-10, leaving them 1-for-21 in the be going their way bui instead_gave Millwood series. his second victory of the postseason. The Braves got a runner on in every inning 
Edgardo Alfonzo finished Millwood with an against Rogers, but many of them didn't last RBI double in the eighth. lung on the bases. 
John Hocker protected the lead by striking Leadoff man Gerald Williams hit a single in out John Olerud -who threw his bat flailing the first and was quickly picked off, and away -and Robin Ventura to end the grounded into 6-4-3 double plays in his next inning. Now, after its 11th loss in 14 meet­two at-bats. ings with Atlanta, New York returns to sold­Andruw Jones singled in the second and out Shea Stadium for Game 3 Saturday night. also was picked off. · 
Al Leiter, a savior all year for the Mets, When Jones singled again in the fourth, he starts against Tom Glavine. took no chances. Instead, he took a Little 
Jordan had just sliced a drive off the right­League-style lead -keeping one foot on the KAT field foul screen against Kenny Rogers to tie bag until Rogers released the ball, a tactic it 2-2 when Andruw Jones followed with a that prompted second baseman Alfonzo to Atlanta's Brian Jordan celebrates after his two-run shot in the Braves' single. kid him after the inning ended. 4-2 win over the Mets Wednesday. 
The Observer acc~pts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per characrer per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

BUYING and SELLING N D FOOT-HAPPY BIRTHDAY! Carmen -I hope they find your shoe BALL TICKETS. Bill Mc, size soon. GREAT PRICES. CALL 289-8048 Have I told you today
LOST & FOUND FOR RENT FOR SALE 
how wonderful you are? The nerve of them not to have 
FOR SALE You're wonderful. every size possible. Set of keys lost outside ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE Spring Break Specials'Bahamas N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS AM stadium Saturday. If found HOME FOR Party Cruise 5 Days $279! Includes CALL 271-9412 Christina -I haven't heard that CD please call Drew at 247-1293 ND-SMC EVENTS. Meals! Don't get tangled in a spiderweb in a while. 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. Awesome SPRING BREAK 2000 over break. Miss you girls! love the 243-0658. Beaches,Nightlife!Cancun & "THE MILLEN/UM" Marys. Where is g-boy anyway? Jamaica 7 Nights From $399! A NEW DECADE. ..NCE IN TRAV­

WANTED 
HOMES CLOSE TO CAMPUS Florida EL.FREE TRIPS,FREE Spring Break 2000 Free Trips & Stalking in the library again? 
http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/ $129!springbreaktravel.com MEALS!JAMAICA,CANCUN,FLORI Meals. FREE TRIPS AND CASH!!! 232-2595 1-800-678-6386 DA,BARBADOS,BAHAMAS.SIGN Jamaica,Cancun,Bahamas,Barbad Come on -admit it -a little too coin-SPRING BREAK 2000 UP BY NOV. 5 FOR 2 FREE TRIPS os,Florida,Padre.Book now tor Free cidental don't you think? StudentCity.com is looking for THAT PRETTY PLACl=, FOR SALE AND FREE MEALS! Meals & 2 Free Trips.Book before Highly Motivated Students to pro-Bed and Breakfast Inn has N.D. FOOTBALL TIX 1800-426-7710 Dec. 17 for LOWER PRICES!! I certainly do. mote Spring Break 20001 space available for football/ CALL 271-9412 WWW.SUNSPLASHTOURS.COM 1800-426-7710 Organize a small group parent wknds. 5 Rooms with private www.sunsplashtours.com Lora -have you moved your stuff and travel FREE!! baths, $80-$115, Middlebury, 30 FOR SALE For SALE 2 tixs all games out of the slounge yet? Top campus miles from campus. N.D. FOOTBALL TIX 272-6306 Stephanie Lauren Petroni -here is reps can earn a Free Trip Toll Road Exit #107, 1-800-418-CALL271-9412 · your classified. Cd players are hot commodities & over $10,000!Choose 9487. USC GA Tickets For Sale these days. 
Cancun, Phone Cards, (617)868-2071 Steph -did you think you'd get two Jamaica or Nassau! 5/6 BDRM HOMES."00-01YR 272-669 min/$20 messages? i'd be careful -some weasel could Book Trips On-Line. 6551 243-9361 USC Ticket Needed!!! take it. Log In and win FREE stuff. or 258-4805 I need a GA ticket tor my gradfa-What about three? I love you Sign Up Now On Line! 6BDRM$150 person. !her. Please call Dave at X 3636 Steph -. Bearhead Jimbo are you reading this? www.StudentCity.com or 272-6306 Beautiful brass bed,queen size, with 800/293-1443 orthopedic mattress set and deluxe NEED 2 TIX FOR USC. Ali do you realize what klepto's we What about you Mahge? 
Sublet: Roomy one bedroom frame.New.never used.still in plas-CALL MARY 219-257-1141. are? Browse icptcorn tor Springbreak Campus View apartment: lic.$235 219·862-2082 Erin -two days, baby -two days. "2000". ALL destinations $385.00 monthly. Call Stacy at NEED 10 USC TIX for family f thought you stole things that offered.Trip Participants.Student Campus View or John Hill MAC 520 Powerbook-Y2K compli-Will pay top dollar. Call Matt at ween'! for sale. I like Maine better than Indiana. Orgs & Camp11s Sales Reps want-at 683-5699 ant-$350. Styfewriter printer $75. ((((((((((((((()219 273-2802. 
ed.Fabulous parties.hotels & prices. days; 616n82-3314. Both seldom used. 287-7928 Who knew the couch was for sale? Ee, whats going on kiddo. I'm prob-
Call Inter-Campus 800-327 ·6013 
The Early Childhood Development Center at Notre Dame, 
locted at 18680 Bulla Road. s looking for college students to work part time or full time during Fall break week, 10/18-22/99. If you are interested in more infor­mation,please contact Thayer Kramer.Program Director.at 631­3344 for more information. A great way to earn extra money while playing with and assisting young children. 
3 BDRM DUPLEX 
REMODELED 501 EDDY ST. 1 Ml. FROM CAMPUS. APPLIANCES, W/D. 273-8332 
ENTIRE HOME FOR FOOTBALL WEEKENDS 2773097 
HOUSES HOUSES HOUSES 
DOMUS PROPERTIES HAVE AVAILABLE 5,6,7,8 & 10-BDRM HOUSES FOR THE 
'00-01 SCHOOL YEAR ONLY 15 LEFT. CALL 

TICKETS 
WANTED NOTRE DAME FOOT­BALL TICKETS 271-1526 
SELL & BUY GA FOOTBALL TICKETS 277-6619 
FOR SALE Elton John & BC Collage tixBest Prices AM -232-2378 PM -2B8-2726 
NEED 2 USC TIX!! ably right next to you as you read call Tim 634-0959 It is comfy though. this. 
SALE USC GA's 251-0999  I wish I was sleeping on it now.  Rockin' Sorority get Priority!!! Oh,  
yeah!  
GARCIA NEEDS use TIX  Right now.  
CALL 4-2017  Wya to go Agnes ... and the Belles!  
Tambre I wish you would be around  Bill rules the Belles/  
Need 4 USC tickets.  the dorm more.  
Call Matt at 4-1998  VEGAS. here we come.  
Just where do you disappear to?  Observer gets replaced by life as a  
showgirl! WHOOI  
PERSONAL  we miss you a lot.  Whoo-haa! is that right?  
Come back, please.  
Gay, Lesbian and Bisexual  Ali, you are still my favorite jersey  
students of ND/SMC meeting each  Andi Andi Andi -I think you are just  girll Don't forget -jersey rules every  
Thurs.For info call:(877)631-6OUT  Dandl.  shore.  

THE UNIVERSITY CLUB  274-1501 OR 234-2436, ASK FOR  
on ND campus is looking tor  KRAMER FOR SHOWING.  ND football !ix tor safe.  Quality Copies, Quickly/  And cool too.  Marie -where are you? Room 473  
dependable bus help.  AM -232-2378  We're open early, late. weekends.  rocks in my heart. WILD WOMEN  
Must be able to work  4-6 student rental houses. Lots of  PM -288-2726  THE COPY SHOP  Did I mention spectacularly neato?  DO .. 4-eva'  
Fri & Sat. evenings.  extras. Huge Party Room.  LaFortune Student Center Phone  
Meals provided.  Washer/Dryer, etc.  I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME  631-COPY  I wish the Red Sox had one.  Where have you been all my life?  
Apply within.  Dave 291-2209.  GAMES.2726551  Quality Copies, Quickly!  Darn Williams.  Rockin Sorority ....  

WWW;
fF 
Thursday, October I 4, 1999 
17
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT ' 
student union 


HAPPENING§ 
Every Thursday. a list of campus-wide events will appear in the Observer. This space is brought to you by the Student Union Executive Cabinet in an effort to keep you in the know. Use this as your resource for all campus happenings. 
!iTUDE/1/T U/1110/1/ BOARD www.nd.edu/~sub 
Acousticafe. 
10/14. Thursday. LaFortune Huddle. 0900PM-1200AM. See www.nd.edu/-sub for this week's performers. Congratulations in Order. Ryon Allen. September. SUB Member of the Month. 
Welcome Aboard! Sara Branch. Brand New Sophomore Literary Festival Chair. 
Pumpkin Painting Party. 10/27. Wednesday. Feildhouse Mall. 0400PM-0600PM. Free pumpkins, snacks, and (rain: LaFortune Ballroom). a campus band. 
CLA!i!i OF i!D03 
Designs for the class t-shirt due. 10/27. Wednesday. T-shirts will be $12. 

CA/P/IPU!i WIDEIMl!iiCELLA/1/EOU!ii 
FRIDAY NIGHT LIVE. 
10/15. Friday. JACC. 0900PM-1200AM. Basketball tournament, free stuff, Tommy Hilfiger ... what more could you ask for? 


WWW .... 
-

ii 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, October 14, 1999 
NFL 
Parcells wants QB Mirer to play more aggressively 
Associated Press 
HEMPSTEAD, New York 
Bill Parcells and quarterback Rick Mirer seemed to have dif­ferent views Wednesdav on what Mirer should be doing bet­ter. 
Parcells, however, once again nominated Mirer as his starter when the Jets face the Colts Sunday at the Meadowlands. 
''I'd like to see him be a little more aggressive," said Parcells in the wake of Mirer's perfor­mance in the loss against the Jaguars. Mirer's passes barely averaged 4 yards a throw as the Jets fell to 1-4. 
"There were .a couple of downt'ield opportunities he didn't use," said Parcells, who has been calling the plays. Mirer. though, was surprised at the comment; indeed, he indi­cated that wasn't the game plan. 
"Our emphasis all week was to complete the balls," Mirer said. "Don't take undue chances If he wants me to be aggressive. I'll be aggressive. But there's other things, too, that were there." 
Mirer completed half of his 38 attempts, was sacked four times, intercepted twice, includ­ing a game-ending desperation pass, and directed an offense that converted an inordinately poor number of third-down plays -three in 16 chances. He threw one completion as long as 20 yards, to Keyshawn Johnson on the final drive. 
Asked whether he had oppor­tunities to throw deep, Mirer said: "Not really, as far as touchdown shots. It's crazy to force it in there." 
While Mirer has been gra­cious about the questions directed at him from his first day in New York, he seemed somewhat weary with the news media today. He said of the loss to the Jaguars: "We're stopped by a good defense and now we're a bunch of bums. l don't think that's fair." 
A week earlier, Parcells and the fans had lauded Mirer for his aggressive play against the Broncos, for his ability to improvise on the run and for getting the Jets into the end zone. 
This week, though, Parcells waited a day before publicly naming Mirer as his starter. 
The coach, however, also 
went out of his way today to point out that the players around him committed so many mistakes that Mirer's perfor­mance-suffered as well. Still, Parcells said that the quarter­back should not have taken so many sacks. 
"There were a couple of times last week when he put the ball away, maneuvered out of trou­ble and then took a sack," Parcells said. The coach pointed out that the Jaguars' quarter­back, Mark Brunell, was also under pressure. "He did that six or seven times, butthrew the ball away," Parcells said. 


'  
\ l  .,, r - 
The Observer . SPORTS  page 19  

. 
NHL 
Detroit downs St. Louis in 4-2 win 
lel'l side and fired in Kozlov's 
Associa1ed Press 
DETROIT 
Stevn Ywrman moved into a tie for nighth place on the NI IL career scoring list as the Detroit Hect Wings beat the St. l.ouis Blues 4-2 Wednesday 
night. 
Larionov and Larry Murphy both had a goal and an assist for the Hed Wings, who also got goals from Tomas llolmstrom and Nicklas I,idstrom and two assists from Vyacheslav Kozlov. 
Pierre Turgeon scored his 400th carerr goal and Michal llandzus also scored for the Blues, who lost the last game of a thrPe-slop road trip after winning the first two. 
Turgeon became Urn 53rd Nill. player lo reach 400 goals when he scored on a powor play 7: lO into the first period. I In got !'rep to the right or the net and convnrted a short pass from .lochen llficht. 
Murphy responded with a power-play goal 2:54 later whnn he skated in from the perfert pass through tho slot. 
Holmstrom scored his third goal by pushing a loose puck into the net at 14:29 to give Detroit a 2-1 lead. 
Chris Pronger kept a clear­ing attnrnpt inside the Detroit line and passed ahead to Handzus, who got open behind lhe Red Wings defense and scored his third goal for a 2-2 tie 8:58 into the second period. 
Oetroit went back on top at 14:45, converting a 5-on-3 opportunity when Larionov one timed Yznrman's pass past Turek. 
Lidstrom gave the Hed Wings a two-goal lead 10:48 into the third period when he scornd his first goal on a slap shot from between the circles. 
Maple Leafs 3, Panthers 2 
Yanic Perreault scored the winning goal on a power play late in the third poriod as the Toronto Maple Leafs beat the Florida Panthers 3-2 Wedmisday night. 
P<irreault, who is centering Toronto's top line in the absence of injured captain Mats Sundin, deflected Danny Markov's point shot with 5:37 remaining for his first goal of the season to break a 2-2 tie. 
Jonas Hoglund and Tomas Kaberle also scored for Toronto. Rookie Nikolai Antropov, called up from St. John's of the AHL to fill Sundin's roster spot, assisted on Kaberle's goal. 
Playing his first NHL game after being recalled from Louisville of the AHL earlier in the day, Ivan NovoseHsev opened the scoring with his first NHL goal on a second­period power play. 
Novoseltsev tied the game 2­2 earlv in the third period, also on the power play. 
Novoseltsev's linemate Viktor Kozlov had two assists. 
Sundin is out until late November after fracturing a bone in his right ankle Saturday in Ottawa. Pavel Bure strained his groin in Florida's 2-1 win over Montreal -011 Tuesday when he pivoted awkwardly while reaching for a loose puck. 
AT TIAA-CREF, LOW EXPENSES ARE A lilGH PRIORITY. 
All financial companies charge operating fees and expense!> ­some more than others. Of course, the lower the expenses you pay, the better. That way, more ofyour money goes where it should -toward building a comfortable future. 
As the largest retirement system in the world, 1 we have among the lowest expenses in the insurance and mutual fund industries.2 
ln fact, TlAA-CREF's 0.35% average fund expenses are a fraction of the expense charges of comparable funds.3 It's one reason why Morningstar says, "TIAA-CREF sets the standard in the-
ii Ensuring the future for those who shape it."' 
financial services industry." 
A focus on your future Of course, expenses are only one factor to consider wh~n you make an invest­ment decision. Morningstar also noted our commitment to "consumer education, service" and "solid investment perfor­mance." Because that can make a differ­ence in the long run, too. 
At TIAA-CREF, we believe people would like to spend more in retirement, not on their retirement company. Today, over two million people count on that approach to help them build financial security. So can you. 
To find out more -give us a call or visit our website 
I 800 842-2776 www.tiaa-cref.org 
•~ • · / · 1=9 · d 1 · An Ju1· •:J Servi ·es Inc linpa-Dikd,,l\,'1ln11/ytii."t!l! /)alo. 1999
I l\allt'J or, $260 hill ion in .t!i3.ell under n1,1n,tgerne1tl. ' StantktrJ t:I P.~w.1 /11..///r.llh'I Rt1/U1g A,111 Y,•l.•. n : J.n ..apper ,.1-J.ll:, ' _• ·· ,, • • , M {qu.anerly). -~•.J&in,i11·""'•" Varitd,/( ,1Rt1ui1Y'.d/.if, 6/30'!999. Of the 6,.1J2 van4blc-annuities wracked by M.omingsaar, the aver'11C fuud had UN_al foea combinmg .&nnw.l expen~ of 0, . : ... plu~an in1loura.iH:e f'Kll<'U!lt of l.26<ko. TIAA-CREF npt:n:.esMc 'iUhj<'.:t tot·h.:inge ,incl are n(ll gua.ran1e.--J for lhe future. Pas! perfom~c 1s no gu~ntec _or fu1ure results. 1IAA-CR ~ 
0 
Individual anJ ln\lilution.-tl Suvi1."e~ Ji"rilnm:~ CRhf t.-enilicate:i ,md imereM~ in ,he HM Real l~tate l\ccount, For more complete mfonna1ion, indudmg charges and eapenses. ca.JI I HOO 842-2776. cxlem,ion 5&09. for pn~p4:1.:lll~.). R~aJ ,hem i.:arefully belOrc you iavtsl (lr sen<l mont:y. lll'J<I 
NFL 


Young 01eets with doctors about future 
Associated Press 
Steve Young, still not recov­ered from the latest of several concussions over the last three years, met with his neurologist Wednesday with his future in the NFL appearing increasingly uncertain. 
"I think the symptoms are lasting a little bit longer than they did before," coach Steve Mariucci said. "In previous con­cussions, he has recovered sooner. That in itself is the con­cern." 
Young, 38, a two-time NFL MVP and six-time passing effi­ciency leader who led the San Francisco 49ers to their fifth Super·Bowl vic­tory in 1994, tion to and I'm concerned about it just like everybody else," said Carolina fullback William . Floyd, a teammate of Young on San Francisco's 1994 Super Bowl team. "This is like the fourth or fifth time in as many years and it's scary to think about." 
Mariucci acknowledged Young has been besieged with pleas to retire and perhaps his time has come. 
"More people are suggesting the 'R' word to him," Mariucci said. "He doesn't like hearing it, but sooner or later he's going to need to admit it to himself, not hear about it but say it and believe that it's right. He hasn't come to that just yet, 
but eventu­
ally that will
"I think the symptoms
underwent a occur. I day-long battery are lasting a little bit can't tell 
of tests under longer than they did you when." 
the direction of Even as
before."
Dr. Gary much as Steinberg, chief Y o u n gof neurosurgery Steve Mariucci wants to at the Stanford 
San Fransisco head coach play, he 
Medical School. San Francisco team physician Dr. James Klint also was present for the exami­nation. 
The outcome of the tests wasn't immediately known, but a subdued Mariucci said Young was still dealing with post-con­cussion symptoms of fatigue and wooziness 2 1/2 weeks after sustaining the damaging head blow. 
The test will be used as part of the evaluation process by the medical team, which will either clear Young to resume playing or determine there are too many health risks and recom­mend he retire. Repeated con­cussions can cause premature senility and other kinds of brain damage. 
For the first time, Mariucci raised the possibility that he and general manager Bill Walsh may take a more active role in deciding Young's future. 
"We're not there today, but there will come a point where a 
' decision has to be made," Mariucci said. "If it were ever to fall in our laps, we would make a very conservative deci­sion. Steve's health is more important than anything, where we play, who's the backup, our Super Bowl chances, the whole thing. Steve's health is A-No. 1 in our decision, period." Young, in his 15th NFL sea­son, has been resisting the calls of his agent, friimds, family and even some current and former teammates to quit, saying he still has a passion to play foot­ball. ''I've been playing close attcn-
BOOK SEARCH 
• 
U.sed, rare and out-of-print books 

• 
Initial cost of $.Z.00 

• 
NationaTly -circulated ad 

• 
Success rate of SO% 

• 
Time Required: 2 months 


ERASMUS BOOKS 
Open noon to 5i.x Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (Zl9) 232-8444 
: 
t 
w o n · t 
ignore a recommendation from his doc­to rs to quit if that's what it comes to, said his agent, Leigh Steinberg, who is not related to the neurologist. 
Wide receiver Jerry Hice added he believes Young is at the point where he, too, nerds a resolution. 
"I think he's dealing with the situation pretty well under the circumstances," Rice said. "I don't know exactly which direc­tion he's going to go but I think he's ready to make a decision." 
Young, who turned 38 Monday, suffered his fourth concussion in three years Sept. 27 against Arizona. He was lev­eled by blitzing cornerback Aeneas Williams, and his head struck tackle Dave Fiore's knee before slamming into the ground. 
The force of the blow left him unconscious for several sec­onds. 
Jeff Garcia has started two games in place of the injured Young, and will start again Sunday against Carolina. 
Even if Young eventually receives medical clearance, Mariucci said he would proba­bly rest him for an additional period of time to make sure he's all right. 
Last week, Young conceded he was bothered by headaches and grogginess after trying to rnsume practice with the team. 
The latest concussion now appears to be the most serious for Young, who endured two in 1996 and another in the 1997 season opener at Tampa Bay. 
GOT SPORTS? FILL US IN. 


CALL 
1-4543. 

'' 
page 20 The Observer . Sl'ORTS Thursday, Occobcr 14, 1999 


Chorney 
continued from page 28 
lay motionless on the Veteran's stadium turf. What could make fans behave in such a classless and unfeeling manner? You try rooting for a team that features Duce Staley as its only form of offense and ask that question again. 
Kurt who? 
Would someone please tell me who Kurt Warner is? Wasn't he an aging running back for the Seattle Seahawks? Now he's the best thing that happened to St. Louis since they started giving out all of those Big Mac's. 
Passing of a legend 
With the passing of Wilt Chamberlain. the basketball world is left to mourn another life ended too soon. Hopefully, he will be remembered for the numbers he racked up on the court and not the numbers he racked up off it. 
Can Elway 
News flash to Dan Patrick and Coors Brewing Company: JOHN ELWAY IS RETIRED! The com­mercials should feature Brian Griese getting the snot beaten out of him instead. He's tasted quite a bit of that Rocky Mountain dirt. 
Blazing new trails 
Good thing the Portland Trailblazers rid themselves of Isaiah Rider and picked up Scottie Pippen. They didn't need his attitude disrupting the team. Pippen's attitude apparently never ~as disruµted a team. 
Mets and Sox 
Wouldn't it be poetic justice to see a New York Mets versus Boston Red Sox World Series? Game 6, down to the last out, and "the greatest infield ever" lets a ball roll through its legs, thus erasing the name of I3ill Buckner from the minds of Red Sox fans forever, and leaving the rest of us to put up with the irritating Boston fans. I guess we'll excuse you from celebrat­ing once every hundred years. 
Miller saves all 
And the Lord sent to this Earth a savior to rid all peoples of unhappiness and bring joy to his people. The Lord named him David Miller. Does anyone honestly think that Jim Sanson wants to kick against USC again? 
Spurrier? No way. 
Talk about bad flashbacks. 
Who's gotten the email claim­ing that Steve Spurrier has talked with Athletic Director Wadsworth concerning taking over the Irish coaching position after this season? Does it strike anyone as odd that the report came out of Tallahassee? Florida is located in Gainesville. Florida State resides in Tallahassee. Nice try though. 
One phone call 
Peter Warrick may be the first Heisman trophy winner ever to 
n:Jo 
8 a..-:•2·5 :.• ·
• ~••==-= '. •:_:,-_,. 
08t·26-2'1(&~ 


·· Youmust·bealull,tlme$Wden1wlh 
:/· 
credit~ou.~,per set1ester in otil becoil ateam melJlber. ·· mustbe.inuoodacademic stanlllng.i········ 
uestions, please caU1-5359.' 
fj 

Bring Dreams Into Focus 
Give the gift of sight by donating your old eyeglasses 
/ ·,.,...~, ._., \\ IL 1,, 
i .,..,,,.~,~t::::=--...., \ ~
'-' ef·
·•,7' -~~_;. 'f' 
i, I­








\'-···~-1 ¥ 
Eyeglass Drive 
October 11th -December 1st -Bring your old eyeglasses and 
sung losses bock from Fall 8t"2ak -Look for boxes in dorms ond around campus 
These eyeglasses will be distributed in Oaxoca, Mexico Questions or comments: e-mail Kelly Hoene at hoene.1@nd.edu 
be interviewed by phone. They Bears. Maybe it's the presence still do allow one phone call in of Jeff George that prohibits prison, don't they? teams from winning. 
What happened? From the desk of Doherty 
Does anyone know what hap­Dear Ruth Hiley. pened to the Minnesota · Would you mind playing cen­
Vikings? They lost players on ter for our basketball team? defense, but their offense is Sincerely, Coach Matt basically in tact. They've gone Doherty. from scoring something like 40 As Kenny Mayne so aptly puts points a game to losing lo the it, she's tall. 
JOIN US All ENJOY A COIRSE II 

SUCCESS! 

Howl With our Educational Benefits Program! We'll help pay for your education while you make money as you work part time with our veey flexible schedules. 
We're opening soon at Scottsdale Mall and hiring for the following positions: Wait Staff Host/Hostess All Kitchen Positions 
We also offer: Meal Discounts, Paid Vacations, Health!Dental/Optical Insurance 40 Ik Plan and much more! 
Join our team today and have too much fun to call it a job! Immediate Interviews Guaranteed at our temporary hiring center In Scottsdale Mall lower level by Wards Mon-Sat, I0:00-7:00 

i H O 0 
Pulliam Journalism Fellowships 
Graduating college seniors are invited to apply for the 27th annual Pulliam Journalism Fellowships. We will grant 10-week summer internships to 20 journalism or liberal arts majors in the August 1999-June 2000 graduating classes. 
Previous internship or part-time experience at a newspaper is desired. or other demonstration of writing and reporting ability. Those who go through the Fellowships often find new professional opportunities opening up at other newspapers during and after the program. Wmners will receive a $5,500 stipend and will work at either The Indianapolis Star or The Arizon.a Republic. Opportunities for online training are available, along with reporting experience at our major metropolitan daily newspapers. 
Early-admissions application postmark deadline is Nov. 15, 1999. By 
Dec. 15, 1999, up to five early-admissions winners will be notified. All 
other entries must be postmarked by March I, 2000, and will be consid­
ered with remaining early-admissions applicants. Successful applicants 
will be notified on or before April 1, 2000, and will be asked to respond .immediately with a letter of intent, at which time one-third of the cash 
grant will be mailed to the Fellow. 
To request an application packet, visit our Web site, e-mail us or write: 
\Vd, ,11e: \\ \\ 1\ ,1.1rn. ,1, l·1i111/p_if E-mail: r,ulli.un<a. •..,r11.:11 ,.l'um 
Russell B. Pulliam Pulliam Fellowships Director Indianapolis Newspapers P.O. Box 145 Indianapolis, IN 46206-0145 
Bad Bands 
Pinally, say a prayer that USC is leaving its band at home. ff I have to hear that song one more time, well, that's another story. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

w a 1 
• 
Thursday, October 14, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 

Belles 
continued from page 28 
games." 
The Belles did just that. Before the third game, the Saint Marv's mascots born at the Irish piip rally last weekend made an appearance in the Angela Athletic Facility. The new mascots led the fans in cheers for the volleyball team, and raised spirits hefore the team took to the court yet again. The team responded well. 
"Our communication really pickP.d up after the second game," 0zbolt said. "We got 
into a grove and played really well." 
The Belles. took control of the court during the third game. Led by Suzanne Martin, who had three aces for the match, the Belles beat Albion 15-6. 
"During the third and fourth game we really got back our basics," Shields said. "We served and passed very welL 
lat Y1ur l8Sklll c,¦ 1111, Y21 R1111rs/111r1111s 
DIDI 11,111 Fall Break 
Bring your computer to the OIT Solutions Center in the CCMB before leaving for break. The fixes can be done while you are gone! 
Computers purchasedfrom the 0/T Solutions Center after January 1, 1997 are guaranteed to be Y2K compliant and 
will have their BIOS upgraded free ofcharge. 
Free copies of Norton 2000 testing software are still available at the OIT Solutions Center, Campus Computer Clusters, or from www.nd.edu/~y2k. 
Y21C@nd 

Spectrum Sports Sale 
"Officially Licensed" 



Notre Dame Products 
At 
Logan Center 
-Super Specials­**Selected ND Sweatshirts $19.95 (Reg.$49.95) With Purchase** **Selected ND T-Shirts $9.95 (Reg. $24.95) With Purchase** 
Was Special
Other Football Weekend Specials Champion Varsity Leather Jacket .............. (Awesome Deal).... $299.95 $124.95 Champion ND Lightweight Jacket.. ....................................... $ 59.95 $ 24.95 Selected ND Hats..................(These Go Fast!) .................. $ 24.95 $ 9.95 ND Button Down Dress Shirt.. ........... (Khaki, Navy) ................ $ 59.95 $ 29.95 

$ 49.95
Hooded ND Jacket with Fleece Lining .......... (Full Front Zip).... $ 89.95 
-Check Out the Great Selection of Notre Dame Products at the Logan Center­
Special Hours For U.S.C. Weekend 
Friday Oct. 16th, 9:00 a.m.~9:00 p.m. Saturday Oct. 17th, 8:00 a.m. until 1:30 p.m. 
•Logan 
Center located south of the stadium at the corner of Eddy and Juniper 

•Free 
gifts to first 50 purchases-compliments of Spectrum Sports (309-786-9318) 


They were much crisper games." 
The Belles won the first point during the fourth game of the evening and never looked back. They scored five points before Albion scored its only point of the game. Saint Mary's then scored 10 consecutive points to win the game 15-1. In the final minutes of the game, Shields took out all of the senior play­ers and put in the heart of next year's Saint Mary's team. 
"Taking them out was a test," Shields said. I wanted to see what it would be like next year without them." 
Tho senior members of the Belles team could be proud of their performance tonight. Senior Agnes Bill ended her career in Angela Athletic Facility by leading the offense and defense with 24 digs and 15 kills. Helping Bill on offense were Martin, freshman Emily Nihill and Angie Meyer. Martin had an impressive 6 aces for the game and continued as the team's setter with 35 assists. Nihill joined Bill with 12 kills, and Meyer added 2 aces to the Belles' offensive attack. 
The defense came on strong. Bill had 24 digs during the game. 
Teammates Jolie LeBeau, 0zbolt and Nihill added to the strong defensive front. LeBeau and 0zbolt had one and three blocks, respectively, and Nihill had 22 digs to put a stop to the Albion offensive. 
Although the Belles are done playing at home, they are far from done for the season. The team plays at Kalamazoo College on Friday at 7 p.m. 
MEN'S TENNIS 






Sachire dra-ws top seed in ITA tourney 
top-seeded player in the first grand slam of the season. 
The draw contains 15 play­ers who appear in the ITA pre­season top 20. Six others from the current Top 10 will be in action: No. 4 Esteban Carril of TCU, No. 5 Francisco Rodriguez of Alabama, No. 7 Michal Chmela of LSU, No. 8 Peter Handoyo of Tennessee, No. 9 Brian Vahaly of Virginia and No. 10 Justin 0' Neal of Florida. Also competing will 
·­
be VCU's Daniel Andersson who won the T. Rowe Price National Clay Court Championships last month. 
The ITA All-American Championships have been played annually since 1979. This is the ninth straight year that this second leg of the ITA Grand Slam is taking place at the University of Texas. 
Between the two qualifying tournaments and main draw, over 350 players compete dur­ing the nine-day tournament, making it the largest NCAA Division I tennis tournament in the country. The ITA Grand Slam also includes the T. Rowe Price National Clay Court Championships, the Rolex National Indoor Championships in February and the NCAA Championship in May. 
The women's equivalent of the All-American -the Riviera Women's All-American Championships takes place in Pacific Palisades, Calif., next week. 


Special to The Observer 
Irish senior Ryan Sachire was named the top seed of the 64-player draw of the 1999 Intercollegiate Tennis Association Men's All­American Championships. 
The All· American is favored in the sec­ond leg of the ITA g r a n d slam that begins 

Thursday Sachire at the Penick-Allison Tennis Center at the University of Texas. Sachire, the second ranked singles player in the preseason IT A rankings, will face Arizona's Alex Aybar at 8:30 a.m. in the first round of the tournament, which begins Thursday and concludes on Monday. Sachire reached the final at the '98 !TA Men's All­American Championships before losing to Harvard's James Blake and was a quar­terfinalist as a sophomore in '97. The top seeding marks the second for Sachire in as many grand slams for the Irish senior from Canfield, Ohio. Sachire turned in his best showing over at the T. Rowe Price National Clay Championships last month by reaching the semifinals as the 

,,ed(,l.e, 
'iH-.'D44.fouf. 7.11(,.. & Pell • 
Use Observer Classifieds. 



Bill sisters team up on and off volleyball court 




[J{]@@~Lf[1@[ru[00@  
COLLeGe n1GHT  $1COVER (with colfege I. 0., must be 21) and lots of other stuff  
SOUTH BEND'S BIGGEST PARTY  for a  buck, too.  

More pictures online every week at www.ACEplaces.com/heartland 
222 S. Michigan• South Bend• (219) 234-5200 Call the Heartland Concert & Event Line (219) 251-2568 
By KATIE MCVOY 
Sporn W rit,:r 
Evervone has heard of the phrase."Like father, like son," but what about "like sister, like sister?" 
In a family where sibling rival­ry never found a home, -Agnes and Ann Bill found true friend­ship while being teammates. 
Senior Agnes and freshman Ann are both players for the Saint Mary's volleyball team thls year. Agnes is an outside hitter and Ann plays defense for the Belles this season. Hut they are more than teammates both on and off the Belles' volleyball court. 
"We are best friends off the 
Sisters Agnes (left) and Ann Bill combine to play key roles on the Saint Mary's volleyball team. 
court," Ann said. 
Growing up in Hamilton, Ohio, 
Agnes was a big influence on 
Ann. 
Agnes began playing volleyball in fifth grade, and encouraged . Ann to play during the summers 
at home. 
"I think I was a big influence 
on Ann," Agnes said. "I encour­
aged her to work out with me 
during the summer, and it was 
just something fun we could do 
together." 
Little sister Ann, agreed with 
Agnes's sentiment. 
"She was ~efinitel~ a big influ­
ence on me, Ann said. 
Although they have both been 
playing since the fifth grade, this 
year is the first year that Agnes 
and Ann have had the opportu-
KRISTINE KAAI/The Observer 
nity to play together as team­mates. They are both finding that there are definite advan­tages to playing together. 
"Our parents come to more games, for one thing," Agnes said. "More importantly, I think it's just fun. Playing with some­one you grew up with at the competitive level is really great." 
"It's something I've always wanted to do," Ann added. "Ever since we started practicing in Lhe yard, I've looked forward to playing together." 
Both Agnes and Ann both agree that playing volleyball has strengthened their friendship. 
"No matter what your experi­ence, doing it with the people you care about brings you clos­er," Agnes said. "Playing volley­ball has really helped us relate." 
Playing together has also moti­vated the Bill sisters to play their best. Competitive volleyball has always been a big part of both players' lives. 
During their high school years both women played for their high school team as well as for club teams in the off season. Their friendship and their sister­hood have been major influences on their playing, especially now that they play on the same team. 
A perfect n1eeting place throughout the weekend. 
Open Friday and Satmd;iy D.1rint1 
N.D. Home Foothall Weekends. 
Eve,yone iVelcome 
Live Mu~ic Grilled Burgers. Brats. and Other Specialtie, Cold Beverages & Spirits 60" Screen TV\ 
Pully Lnclosed TL·nt 
next to the N.D. Bookstore. 219-631-2000 
"Agnes really motivates me to play well," Ann said. "She makes me want to play hard and give one hundred percent" 
Agnes leaves a good example of a successful volleyball career for Ann when she graduates this year. She was named first team MIAA last season, as well as an MIAA player of the week and Saint Mary's most valuable play­er. 
According to Agnes, teamwork is a huge part of the Bills' suc­cess this season. 
"I want Ann to do well and she wants me to do well," Agnes added. 

---7 
' 
.. 
..i 
Thursday, October 14, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
NCAA FOOTBALL
[ Please Recvcle The Observer. 
the library is closed... Nittany Lions confident 
your midterm is at 8. in contest with Buckeyes 
.---6''Friday Night Live'' 
with Coach D 
starring Dick Vitale, Tommy Hilfiger, Austin Carr and the 1999/2000 Fighting Irish Basketball Team 
Friday, October 15th at the Joyce Center 
Lineu 9:30pm Gate 10 opens (First 1,000fans get a free t-shirt) 10:00pm 5 on 5 &3pt Final Four Tournament 11:00pm Final Four Champs take on the coaching staff Midnight 1999 Basketball team scrimmage 
_.7
Student Giveawavs (Must be Present to win)
~ i 
Opportunity to coach alongside Tommy Hilfiger andAustin Carr 1/2 court shot to win semester tuition 
' 
. 
Trip to the ND/Tenn football game (Nov. 6) Tommy Hilfiger apparel adidas apparel 

versity~s 
free lecture notes knowledge center fail-me-not reminder service online study groups 
www.versity.com 
Associated Press 
Ohio State has a dominating defense and depth and talent on offense, just like Penn State. 
What the Buckeyes don't have is the confidence of the second-ranked Nittany Lions. 
"It's a great feeling when you know if you don't screw it up, you're proba­bly going to win," Ohio State coach John Cooper said. 
But Cooper's Buckeyes have strug­gled. Just two weeks ago Wisconsin routed them 42-17 in Ohio Stadium. Last week, Ohio State survived a last­minute drive by Purdue to hang on, 25-22. 
Now 18th-ranked Ohio State (4-2, 1-1 Big Ten) plays on the other team's home field for the first time this season to take on Penn State (6­
0, 2-0). 
The Buckeyes have concerns about themselves, about the Nittany Lions' intimidating defense and their own split-personality offense, and about the rabid crowd at Beaver Stadium. In other words, there are concerns everywhere. 
The victo·ry over Purdue helped ease the pain of the loss to Wisconsin. 
"We lost two games. There are peo­ple who are going to challenge the talent level. They're going to question our abilities as a football team because we lost two games and we're Ohio State," safety Donnie Nickey said. "I don't feel that our talent level has dropped enough to be noticeable. _I think we're fine. I think we're going to do line. I think we're going to win out the rest of the season." 
Cooper said this may be the best Penn State unit he's seen in 12 years at Ohio State. I le called defensive end Courtney Brown a potential No. 1 overall pick in the NFL draft. Ile said LaVar Arrington might be the best linebacker he's ever seen and gushed over defensive backs David Macklin and Derek Fox and linebacker Brandon Short. 
Told that the Nittany Lions were fifth in the Big Ten in points, rushing yards and passing yards allowed. Cooper snickered. 
"Don't pay any attention to the stats. Turn the film on," he said. ..­The Nittany Lions offense is averag­ing 466 yards and 39 points a game. 
A year ago, Ohio State allowed just 79 yards on the ground and 102 through the air in an easy 28-9 win over Penn State in Columbus. Quarterbacks Kevin Thompson and Rashard Griffin -whom Ohio State players referred to as "the thrower" and "the athlete," respectively ­didn't do the job then. 
"It's basically the same team as last year," linebacker Na'il Diggs said. "If we come out and study film and tack­le and do things like last year's team did, there's no way that team should win." 
Ohio State lost its only previous game away from home, 23-12 to Miami in front of a partisan crowd in the Kickoff Classic, before an unprecedented five-game homestand. For the first time, the Buckeyes will be confronted with a lot of unfriendly faces. 




-
page24 
NFL 
Davis 
undergoes surgery 
Associated Press 
While his team tries to recover from a 1-4 start, Terrell Davis will be recovering from season-ending knee surgery. 
The MVP running back underwent reconstructive surgery Wt:>dnesday to repair a torn ligament in his right knee. He faces 4-6 months of rehabil­itation but is expected to be ready for training camp in 2000. 
"I talked to Terrell's mother, and he's still in the recov6ry room and kind of sleepy, but she says he's doing very, very well and is in good spirits," Denver Broncos trainer Steve Antonopulos said. 
Six doctors, including Vail surgeon Dr. Richard Steadman, performed the two-hour opera­tion in Denver. Steadman's patients include the likes of for­mer Broncos quarterback John Elway, Olympic gold-medal skier Picabo Street and tennis star Monica Seles. 
"Everything went as planned," Antonopulos said. "We feel real optimistic about the outcome." 
Davis, who ran for 2,008 yards last year, had 211 yards on 67 carries before tearing his ACL while making a tackle after an interception in the first quarter of Denver's 21-13 loss to the New York Jets on Oct. 3. 
He was the second Denver player to tear his ACL within a four-week span. Starting line­backer John Mobley, who led the Broncos in tackles the past two years. injured his right knee in the first game of the season. 
Mobley talked to Davis in the week before surgery and gave him an idea what to expect during his recovery. 
"I was in a lot of pain. It was still a grueling process after surgery," Mobley said. "All I wanted to do was go to sleep and rest up, and this guys is in there telling me to do leg lifts and stuff like that. It was tough, but it's what you have to do if you want to get back." 
Without Davis, the Broncos turned to veteran backup
r 
Derek Loville, but he strained a hamstring three days after Davis was injured. 
Rookie Olandis Gary made 
• his NFL debut Sunday and ran for 64 yards on 20 carries to help the Broncos win their first game of the season. He will start Sunday against Green Bay if Loville is unable to play. 
The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, October 14, 1999 
NFL 
Kramer earns second start for Chargers 
AssociaceJ Press 
While the defense will eagerly continue to carry the load, the San Diego Chargers will give quarterback Erik Kramer his second straight start in their AFC West show­down with Seattle on Sunday. 
Coach MikA Riley said be made the decision because Jim Harbaugh hasn't fully healed from the two cracked ribs he suffered in the first quarter of a win against Kansas City on Oct. 3. 
"Right now we're almost forced into this situation and we've got to make the most of 
it  this  week,"  Riley said  
Wednes day.  
The  Chargers  and  

Seahawks are tied for the division lead at 3-1 going into the game at Qualcomm Stadium. 
The Chargers continue to 
be thankful they signed Kramer the night before training camp opened, two days after his sudden dis­missal by the Chicago Bears. La.st year they didn't have much of a choice at quarter­back. When Ryan Leaf's blunders became too burden­some, they put· in Craig Whelihan and the turnovers continued. 
While the defense again dictated the outcome, the Chargers' feeble offense showed some improvement behind Kramer in a 20-10 win at Detroit last Sunday. He didn't throw any touch­down passes, but the Chargers were dramatically improved in third-down t'on­versions. 
'Tm excited every chance I get." said Kramer, who missed the last half of 1998 with the Bears due to shoul­der and knee surgeries. "l was hoping it would happen that way, so hopefuJly we can keep moving forward." 
Kramer was asked if he felt he deserved the start. 
"Put it this way, I don't think I have anything to apol­ogize for," he said. "I think I've played well. I think I've basically come in and tried to play solid and not make any mistakes. There's always things you like to improve on week to week, but it takes everybody pulling together.". 
Harbaugh can play if need­ed, but won't be able to take the normal amount of repeti­tions this week in practice. 
"I'll be behind him 100 per­cent," Harbaugh said. "We ultimately just need wins.'' 
Riley's not worried about a quarterback controversy once Harbaugh ii:; healed. 
"We'll have to make some kind of announcement next week again, and that's all 
right," 
Riley said. "We're talking about two classy guys here. Both of them are fierce com­petitors and want to he the starter. They're handling everything real well." 
Linebacker Junior Seau, leader of the Chargers' big­play defense, said he knows it's going to take time for the offense to Jell due to the off­season additions of Harbaugh, Kramer, receiver Jeff Graham and the signing of receiver Chris Penn on Sept. 8. 
"What better team to do that than with our defense?" Scau said. "So if you call it grace period, we have a grace period for our offense. We believe that they're going to be coming through." 
San Diego's defense "is an obvious strength to this team and we need to play up to that strength," Riley said. 
NFL 
Redskins call on Arnsparger to save defense 
Associated Press 
Bill Arnsparger spent much of his first Washington Redskins practice wallang in circles with his hands behind his back, star­ing at the grass when he was not watching a play. 
Occasionally, he would take a sheet of paper out of his pocket and study it. 
Needless to say, it will take a few days before the 72­year-old coaching guru is ready to take a hands-on approach to helping save the league's worst defense. 
"I've got to learn the ter­minology," said Arnsparger, laughing as walked off in the field Wednesday. 
With six first-round draft picks and plenty of depth at most positions, the defense was supposed to be the Redskins' strong suit this season. Instead, it is allow­ing a league-worst 433.5 yards per game, prompting coach Norv Turner and the team's win-now owner, Dan 
EARN UP TO $1000 *This Semester* By Posting Your Lecture Notes Online 
Register on-line now: 
@www.Study24-7.com (888) 728-7247 FREE CLASS NOTES! 
STUDY24-7.COM 
Irish Country Bed & Breakfast Registry 
"'Ulfu.e (f<IU 'tt ~ ~ a. fdaa lb-JW/·,, 
16901 Jackson Road South Bend Call: (219) 255-1516 Fax: (219) 257 -4193 
Web: www. irish country. com 
John Adams, Beverly Ainsly, Joan Aldous, Susan Alexander. Heidi L. Ardizzone, Wendy Arons, Reginald F. Bain, Tamara Baker, Kate Baldwin, Charles Barber, Joseph Bauer, Kimberly A. Baum, Laura Bayard, Timothy Bays, Gail Bederman, James 0. Bellis, Doris Bergen, Nora J. Besansky, Kathleen Biddick. lkaros Bigi, Patricia Blanchette, Joseph Blenkinsopp,Thomas E.Bogenschild, Rebecca Bordt, John Borkowski, Scott D. Bridgham, Jacqueline Brogan. Seth Brown, Gerald L. Bruns, Theodore Cachy, Naomi Cassirer, Patricia Chang. Ann K. Clark, Robert Coleman, Frank Connolly, James P. Cunningham, James Cushing, Roberto Damata, Sperry 
Darden. Noreen Deane-Moran, Kenneth DeBoer, Michael DePaul. Mic Detlefsen, Jane A. Devine. Jeffrey Diller, Alyssa W. Dinega, Myrtle Doaks, Jay P. Dolan, 
Bailey in the secondary to Dana Stubblefield. Dan Wilkinson, Kenard Lang and Marco Coleman up front. 
Arnsparger says he is here not to move people around, but rather as an extra pair of eyes to help get all the talented play­ers focused on a back-to-basics approach. 
Snyder, to bring 23-year NFL coaching veteran Arnsparger back to the game after 4 1/2 years of retirement. 
"I feel honored," said Arnsparger, the architect of the Miami Dolphins "No Name Defense" of the 1970s, the "Killer_ B's" of the 1980s and the San Diego Chargers defense that went to the Super Bowl after the 1994 season. "I was glad I was sitting on the bed when Norv called the other night, because I was surprised." 
Arnsparger agrees with the conventional wisdom that the Redskins defense is already well stocked with talent, from Darrell Green and Champ 
William Donaruma, Matthew J. Doppke, Eileen M. Doran, Liz Dube, Brian Edwards. Elizabeth D. Eldon, Sam Evens, Steve Fallon, Jeremy Fein, Douglas J. Fishkind, Judith Fox, Stephen Fredman, Dolores W. Frese, JoAnn Gabrich, Patrick J. Geary, James A. Glazier. Teresa Ghilarducci, Jill Godmilow, Frederick W. Goetz, Anamaria Goulet, Barbara Green, Arthur M. Grubert, Sandra M. Gustafson, Gary Gutting, David Hachen, Maureen Hallinan, Eugene Halton, Gary Hamburg. Christopher Hamlin, Graham Hammill, Noriko Hanabusa, Susan C. Hans, David Harley, Susan C. Harris, Robert Haywood, 
Marsha L. Heck, Glenn Hendler, Paula M. Higgins, Coleen Hoover, Alan Howard, Thomas Jemielity, Carlos Jerez-Farran, Encarnacion Juarez. David Todd Jenkins, Paul Johnson, Maureen A. 
Jones, Sonja K. Jordan, Elizabeth M. Karle, Conrad Kellenberg, Douglas Kinsey, Marjorie Kinsey, Julia Knight, James Kolata, Janet Kourany, Michael Kremer, Robert A. Krieg, C.S.C., Bill Krier, Claudia Kselman, Tom Kselman, Greg Kucich, Giovanna Lenzi'Sandusky, Christine Levecq, Blake Leyerle, Marya Lieberman, Louise Litzinger, Joanne M. Mack, Mary Ann Mahony, Gail Mandell, Ed Manier, Jill Mann. Eugene R. Marshalek, Julia Marvin, Nancy Mascotte, Hank Mascotte, Diana C. J. Matthias. John Matthias, Bill McGlinn, John T. McGreevy, Robert McIntosh, Christopher 
A. McLaren, Patricia McNeal, Martha Merritt, Ken Milani, Carry F. Million, Christian Moevs, Kenneth E. Moore, Layna Mosley, Lenny Moss, Kathleen M. Murphy, James Murray 
• We, the undersigned faculty and staff of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College, regret, disapprove of, and protest the decision of the President of the University to suppress all advertising submitted to The Observer by GALA* and OUTreachND. ** 
• 
The President acts inappropriately, as if he were the publisher of a putatively independent student newspaper. Worse, since his policy rejects advertising from GALA and OUTreachND in advance, without regard to the propriety or the educational and informational value of specific copy, it is arbitrary and discriminatory. The President's action threatens the 

credibility of The Observer as an independent newspaper. 

• 
However, if the President of a university exercises advance censorship of advertising copy for an independent student newspaper, both his decision and the views of the censored groups become newsworthy. We encourage The Observer editorial staff to continue their responsible and full coverage of this news, and we support all efforts to increase understanding of the role of a truly independent student newspaper in this community. 


Kenneth E. Moore, Layna Mosley, Lenny Moss, Kathleen M. Murphy, James Murray, Chnstopher A. McLaren, Patncia McNeal, Martha Merritt, Ken Milani, Carry 
F. MIiiion, Christian Moevs. Kenneth E. Moore, Layna Mosley, Lenny Moss, Kathleen M. Murphy, James Murray, Robert McIntosh, Christopher A. Mclaren, Patricia McNeal, Martha Merritt, Ken Milani, Carry F. Million, Christian Moevs, Kenneth E. Moore, Layna Mosley. Lenny Moss, Kathleen M. Murphy. James Murray, Dian H. Murray, Daniel J. Myers. Jennifer Nemecek, Alven M. Neiman, Maura B. Nolan, Carolyn Nordstrom. Sean o·snen, Mana Olivera-Williams, William O'Rourke, Catherine Perry, Teresa Godwin Phelps, Richard Pierce, Ann Plamondon, Carolyn Plummer, G. Margaret Porter, Jean Porter, Mary K. Porter, Ann Pouk, F. Clark Power, Joseph M. Powers, Ava Preacher, Diane Pribbernow, Kathy A. 
Psomiades, Kathleen Pyne, Phil Quinn, 
Benjamin Radcliff, Paul Rathburn. Gretchen Reydams-Schils, Andrew 
Reynolds, Joan Rhoads, Juan M. Rivera, Charles Rosenberg, David Ruccio, R. L. Rutsky, Kathryn Ryan-Zeugner, Susan St. 
Ville, Patti Sayre. Mark Schurr, Siiri S. 
Scoll, James H. Seckinger, Robert P. 
Sedlack, Jr.. Lill I. Selden. Tom Shaffer. 
Richard Sheehan, Daniel Sheerin, Dinah 
L. Shelton, Susan G. Sheridan, Kristin Shrader-Frechette, Michael A. Signer, Robert M. Slabey, J. Eric Smithburn. Donald Snlegowakl,Lyn Spillman, James 
P. Sterba, Marsha Stevenson, Donald 
Stikeleather, Christopher Strathman, Patrick J. Sullivan, c.s.c., Tom Swartz, Kimberly Taylor, Lawrence A. Taylor, Margo Hobbs Thompson, Jay Tidmarsh, 
Maria Tomasula, Steve Tomasula, George Trey, Cameron Tuai, James Turner, 
Barbara Turpin, Eugene Ulrich, Linnea 
Vacca, Robert Vacca, James H. Walton, 
Kevin Wangler, Kathleen Maas Weigert, 
John P. Welle.Paul Weithman, James F. 
White, Thomas Whitman, Richard A. 
Williams, Ursula Williams, Karmen M. 
Wilson, Pamela Robertson Wojcik, 
Christinc1 K. 
Wolbrecht. Martin H. Wolfson, Robert J. 
Wolosin, Jackie S. Wyatt, Ewa Ziarek, 
Krzysztof Ziarek 

Thursday, October 14, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
AMERICAN LEAGUE CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES 
Williams' late-game homer gives Yankees first win over Sox 

AFP Yankees' Scott Brosius beats Red Sox catcher Jason Varitek to the plate in Wednesday's opening game of the American League Championship Series. 
Associatcd Press 
BIWNX. New York 
Bernie Williams' lead-off homer in the 10th inning lifted the defending World Series champion New York Yankees past the Boston lfod Sox, 4-3, in Game 1 of the American League Championship Series. · 
Scott Brosius stroked throe hits, includ­ing a homer, for New York, which has won l 1 straight in the post-season. 
Mariano Hivera {1-0) went two innings of one-hit relief tlJ earn the win. Hod Beck (0-1) entered the game for the Red Sox in the bottom of tho 10th and Williams wasted no time in pounding tho game-winner. On an 0-1 pitch, Williams ripped a drive to dead center field that Darren Lewis could only watch, giving the Yankees the win. 
The homer was the third of Williams' career in the AILS, including a blast oil Baltimore's Randy Myers in the bottom of the 11th inning in 1996 that also proved tu be the game-winner. Boston has lost nine straight American League Champicmship Series games. dating back to l 988. Oakland swept the Red Sox in both 1988 and 1990. 
The Red Sox pushed across two runs in the top of'the first inning with a little help from a Derek Jeter error. Jose Offerman singled and came all the way around to score from first when Jeter made a poor throw to second base. 
The All-Star shortstop made a spectac­ular play in the hole to come up with a ball hit by John Valentin. but his off-bal­ance throw to second sailed past Chuck Knoblauch and down the right field line. Offerman was able to scamper home with the game's first run. while Valentin sprinted to third. 
The Keough Institute for Irish Studies 
University ofNotre Dame 
Cordially Invite The University Community and The General Public To I ts Formal Dedication 

;<It: 
~I. ter 
. . . 
•l!<i> \···· :.·
e;~Kevm'Whelo;n•. 16ft, Thom.a'S Devine 
. . · I> . ·t··D·•. <
A"m...t. MC. . l$CU8~1on 
"."'""'~'-,·~ : ·:·,,. .,;-:' :..;:.-·: , ·.·-. :· :_ 
,,•· . 
•>~/: cjiw: 1a",i"t . • ·,, •...>:·.. .-i-.:-:;·., :~~ 
·····•·•·s·in\rr·
tre~t:*:"1: ~i 
\_::4\0t:~-~:-j~it~:·l~fti-· · 
Brian Daubach followed with a base hit off New York starter Orlando Ilernandez to score Valentin for a two-run ndgo. In the second, L1iwis walk1icl. stole second. took third on a Trot Nixon single and scored on a base hit by Offerman. 
The Yankees trimmed the deficit to 3-2 in ihe bottom of' thri snr,onrl wh1-m 1998 World Series MVP Scott Brosius launched a two-run homer over ihe wall in left field. Shane Spencer, who was put on the New York roster f'or the ALCS aft.er being left off for the previous series with the Texas Hangers, singlnd with two outs and scored ahead of' thti home run. 
The Yankees finally lied the score in tho home-half' of the seventh. Brosius singled to start the frame and moved to ser.ond on a sacrifice bunt by Knoblaur.h. Jeter then laced a single to right lield that Nixon lieldAd cleanly. Brosius tried to score on the play and was safe when Boston catcher Jason Varitek dropped thA throw, tying the score at :i-3. 
Offerman began the 10th inning with a base hit off Rivera, setting the stage for a controversial call. 
John Valentin followed with a grounder t{) third base that Brosius field­ed cleanly and threw to second for a force try. Offerman was called out on the play, despite the far.t that Knoblauch clearly dropped the ball. 
Second-base umpire Hick Rend ruled that Knoblauch had caught the throw and dropped it while attempting to turn the double play, but television replays showed the ruling was incorrect. Daubach then grounded into a 1-6-:1 double play to end the inning. 
Boston All-Star shortstop Nomar Garciaparra made two errors in the game. but also made a pair of spActacu­lar leaping grabs to preserve at least three runs. 
.. 

-
r 
page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, October 14, 1999 
GOLF 
Ratay leads Irish to third place finish at invitational 

r) ...;
__:JJJiJ! 
• Aeronautical Engineering • Computer Science • Management
As one of the world's leading diversified technology companies, we're breaking new ground in everything from defense and commercial electronics, to aviation, to 
• 
Chemical Engineering • Electrical Engineering • Marketing/Communications engineering ·and construction. As a Raytheon employee, you'll contribute to the 

• 
Civil Engineering and • Finance/Accounting • Math development of exciting, revolutionary technology designed to make life better, easier, 


Construction Management • Human Resources • Mechanical Engineering and safer throughout the world. Such as our STARS air traffic control system. And our 
• Computer Engineering • Industrial and Labor Relations • Physics award-winning NightSight™ technology. 
Check out our Website at www.rayjobs.com/campus for further information But it all starts with you. Your creativity. Your knowledge. And enthusiasm about the future. In 
including a calendar of recruiting events. At Raytheon, we strive to be the employer of choice for a diverse workforce by
r 
attracting, retaining, and recognizing the most talented, resourceful and creative people.
return, we offer exceptional training and professional development opportunitie:;. A supportive,
• 
down-to-earth work environment. And incredible benefits including flexible schedules d€signed to respect your qualify of life. 
So you can still show offall those great qualities ofyours outside of work, too. 
We'll be visiting your campus soon -contact your career placement office to schedule an interview. If you are unable to meet with us, please e-mail your reswme to: resume@rayjobs.com (ASCII text only; no attachments), or mail to: Raytheon Company, Attn: National Staffing Data Center, P.O. Box 660246, MS-201, Dallas, TX 75266. U.S, citizenship may be required. We are an equal opportunity employer. 


Bringing technology to the edge 
Raylheon 

Special to The Observer 
Sophomore Steve Ratay and the Notre Dame men's golf team continued their strong fall season by placing third Tuesday at the 19-team Xavier Provident Invitational. 
It was held at the par-71. 6,808-yard Grizzly Tournament CoursP at the Coif Center at Kings lsland. 
Notn~ Dame -which opimerl ' the fall with first-place finishes at the Air Force Invitational and the Legends of Indiana Intercollegiate -failed to close the gap in Tuesday's third and final round, after sitting just four strokes off the lead follow­ing Monday's opening two rounds of play. 
The team was disappointed with their inability to gain any ground on Tuesday, according to Hatay. 
''I walked off the last green and most of the guys were looking half dead," he said. "We jusl couldn't believe that we couldn't make a comeback." 
The Irish closed with a round of 295 in the play-five, count­four format, yielding an 872 total that trailed only Michigan and Marshall in the 19-team field. 
Ratav -who served as Notre Dame;s fifth man last spring 
Where it matters most. 
before placing 11th at Air Force and winning The Legends of Indiana this fall ­used steady rounds of 71-70-72 to finish. tied for fifth in the 100-player Xavier field. 
His even-par 213 total repre­sents the fourth-best 54-hole score by an Irish golfor since stroke play began in 196:·L Ratay attributes his better play this fall to a higher level of con­fidence. 
The Irish received strong individual contributions from all five players, particularly in the second round when the team carded two 70s and two 71s while throwing out a 72. Senior Jeff Connell rPturned to form after being hampered at The Legends with_ a wrist injury, tying for 19th with a 219 total. 
Senior captain Todd Vernon finished one stroke back at 220, with juniors Alex Kent and Adam Anderson rounding out the strong team showing. 
Notre Dame's impressive start represents the first time in the program's history that an Irish squad has finished among Lhe top Lhree in three straight intercollegiate tourna­ments. 
"We're pretty optimistic," Ratay said. "A lot more than in the past. We've gotten off to a good start and we think that we can compete with anyone." gram's first appearance jn the for NCAA bids during each of 
The strong start also provides NCAA Championship since the past two seasons, but had a huge boost to :\Iotre Dame's 1966. to rally in the spring after sub­hopes !'or securing the pro-The Irish wern in the running par fall performances. 
HOMES FOR RENT 

-Domus Propeties has two, five, six,and nine bedroom student housing available 
-Student neighborhoods close to campus 
-Security systems provided 
-Well maintained homes 
-Maintenance staff on call 
Available for the 2000/200 I school year 
Contact Kramer (219) 274-1 SO I or (219) 234-2436 
Opportunities are available for exceptional students with the following majors: 

, ,, 
Thursday, October 14, 1999 The Observer . TODAY page 27 
EUGENIA LAST
CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 27 Why is the milk 51 What's the 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS follow your dreams. Be honest with production anagrammatic 
DAY: Harry Anderson, Ralph Lauren, the one you love. If you think that he 1 Cutoffs, maybe, Roger Moore, Arleen Sorkin, Lillian or she is holding you back, say so,
survey so reason for these 
before they were Gish and ask for help to g,·t back on track.
screwy? odd questions? 
Happy Birthday: You'll be a dra­00 32 Kind of wrench 56 Kind of gin matic dreamer this year, but your LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Take it 
cutoffs 
&Sound of 
33 Like a Burns 57 Food for Fido strong determination to turn your easy today. You need to rejuvenate
breaking up? 
acquaintance desires into a reality will help you and pamper yourself. Don't get
58 Songs "di 
1o Masterpieces 34 Sharp make it so. It may be difficult for you involved in relationships that are low­
sentimento"
14 Sylvia Plath to save your cash, but vou will enjoy ering your self-esteem. Remember
35 Detroit's county 
book 61 High scores spendmg what you make, so don't who you are and don't lose sight of 
37 Item in which to 
62 1963 Liz Taylor feel too badly. Trying new things will your goals. 0000
15 Religious image 
doaplie role bring you the stimulation you crave SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You 
16 Baker's need 
41 Resistance units this year. Your numbers: 4, 13, 27, 31, have the best intentions in mind con­
63 Busybody
17 Oft-quoted Yogi cerning your clearest friends. You will
42 Not just a 38, 47 
1e Old Spanish 64 New England's ARIES (March 21-April 19): Don't h,we a greater involvement with
franchisee 
kingdom locale push yourself so hard. Fatigue will set children. It will be easy for you to
43Whyisthe 
65 Fish locale in, causing you to have difficulties make new friends. Open your heart
19 Coin no longer drought­
getting things done. Don't be so eager to others. 000
being minted 66 "Broca's Brain" 
plagued swim to do e\'erything yourself. You must SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): 
author
20 What happens club bankrupt? let others help if they offer. 00000 You mustn't let people upset you when Kansas 47 Film maker TAURUS (April 20-May 20): with trivial criticism. They are proba­City wins a Frank Romantic opportunities will be yours. bly just covering up for something World Series? if you get out and socialize. You can they don'! want you to know about.
DOWN 
49 Playboy head, to 
.1chieve your personal goals if you Take a close look and observe their
23 Sea's partner friends 1 Elbows do it 
put in a little extra effort. Children actions. 00025Draw 50 Lake 2 Before may play a big role in your life. 000 CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 26 Boston team, in Okeechobee's 3 BB gun, e.g. GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Prob­You have to let yourself go. It's time 
brief state: Abbr. lems at home will leave vou tired and' to take those courses you've been
4 Peter Lorre's 
run-down. You can't take on every· thinking about. Let your creative side
role in "The 
one's troubles. Sort out what you flourish. You'll meet many unusual 
Story of 
have to, but most of all, look out for people if you follow a new path.
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE Mankind" 
)'Ourself. Rest will be needed. 000 000
Puzzle by Kelly Clark 
5 Mercury CANCER (June 21-July 22): You'll AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): S N A G astronaut Deke 24 Curly cabbage 42 Times when 48Cop-have problems while in transit. Don'I Don'I let your financial limitations you're not at 52 It's the truth set yourself a tight schedule. Delays devastate you. You have always been
T O F U N O D D N A 6 Noted Talmudic 28 Compose 
your peak are likely. Leave yourself plenlv o/ able to pick up and move forward in
EARN~---OCK y~ 53 Spanish pot 
29 Authority lime to reach vour destination. 000 the past, and you'll do it again now.
43 Pinafores
W H 
O S 7 Ones that may 54 Available LEO (Jul)' 23-Aug. 22): You will 0000
30 Press for 44 Thirstiest
be high? 55 Vicinity have to take care of other people's PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You
payment 45 "Hey, check that 
problems. Deal with the issues quick­will have a problem if your mate tries
F L sTough 59 --standstill
31 Ginger--out!" ly arid get back to the plans you had to curtail your freedom. You need to9~Domini 46 Guitarist Paul 60 Mateo or Miguel, in mind for entertainment. You must be free to come and go as you please.
35 "-.-me?" 
47Class e.g. spend some time with your family. The directions that you want to fol­
36 Band aid? 
00000 low will take up quite a lot of your
.,._'-'-f.~N~A.;.i 11 In a bad way 
37 Air letters? VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You'll time.OO
1 T S 12 Excellence 
get upset if you haven't been able to
38 Making whole Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 13 Says quickly are available by touch-tone phone: 
K N I --+--+-+-E L L S 21 Be in a bad way 39 Make known Birthday Baby: You are in love with everything that life has to offer, a
1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
romantic who gravitates toward those who are as creative and fun-loving as
0 N T "."":-t--t---t--t-,,,-R A I L 22 Kind of wit or 40 Bear with us at 
Annual subscriptions are available for the you are. Although you're theatrical and colorful in all that you do, you do need
A I R N C E E C R U test night 
best of Sunday crosswords from the last to learn the value of a dollar. L E E I K E D D E A R 23 Saturate 41 Voiced 50years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
.. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
TOMKEELEY
FOURTH AND INCHES 
COl",E. Ot,J\ jCF,I.) P,.l'/. 'lo 1h1e. e,~,-nre: "'TV HOW M<,.E.. '-(ou s.v PPO.S ow 1 , llE-~--~ 0 II.I FU/..\..,o S.•11)£>! 1..i ltEP-E.i.. f,L.~T, Mll) '16\JF-13-\J.S,11',16 'T\\-E'. U>~PVTE.f<..
ll~•·_...."""" 
Fox TROT  
LoRD, 1F 'T'ou ARE TRUL'I' A LoV1r.J& GoD... \  A CoMPASS10NATE GoD... A CARrN& (:,OD .•.  

-:t"G 'Tl-1€.f-.~ ~N'<'n\lt-J(.. 
6-l,.SE. ~OU C:.0Vl.-O 6,e;. 
O\NC, TO !'f?D(.AA:'.>Tll'JA-TE: 
i 'J'OU'LL LET THIS PACK 1 
OF PoKEMON CARDS CoNTArN A HoLO·FolL 
CHARIZAR[) CARD. 
\.JE-1-ii\,l-ltJG Yoo KI-JOWi'"{oU'L-1.. ,,1.j-1:t3 '5E-GOut-Ji1NC,, \301'\{'5 O~ l\-lE C£11..\NC:-J 
BILL AMEND 
__ So I CAN LAUGH IN E1LEEN .TACoSSoN'S 
FACE. I 
A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD JEFF BEAM 
CAN You aeu1:ve PAl(IST1'N"S ARM'( OVEf'..THIU:W Ttff: GoVEfUl&MENT1 
Everything is safe and warm inside the campus bubble. 
beam.1@nd.edu 
.. 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
-
Name _______________________ Address --------------------------­
City _______State ____ Zip______ 
r 

Braving the Storm 
Brian Jordan and the Braves move to 2-0 edge over the Mets in the National League 
Championship Series. 
page 16
PORTS 
O
THE 
page 28 BSERVER Thursday, October 14, 1999 

WOMEN'S SOCCER 
SMC drops first home match to Calvin 5-0 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI Spom Writer 
The Saint Mary's soccer team dropped another game Wednesday to Calvin College. The 5-0 defeat was the Belles' first home loss for the 1999-2000 season. 
·•1 thought we came out really flat to begin again." head coach Jason Milligan said. "tater on, in the second [part] of the first half, and in the second half, we played much better." 
Again, the Belles had trouble finishing their scoring runs. Calvin held them to just seven total shots on goal. Freshman mid­fielder !leather Muth led the Belles with two scoring attempls, une on a breakaway that !ell her one-on-one with the Calvin goalie, but the shot went wide off the right post. Laura Paulen, :vtary Campe, Katy Barger and Erin McCabe also had shots . 
..We've been improving every game," Milligan said. "The pace of play is quicker with the better teams. I think they're getting some great experience." 
The Belles had trouble getting the ball down the field, and thev also seemed to struggle on defense more than usual. 
"The only part I think we were struggling with was communication," senior co-cap­tain Rachel Egger said. 
Saint Mary's goalie Brie Gershick had five saves for the game. Four of the Calvin goals occurred in the first half. 
"We've never had to make such a huge comeback," senior co-captain Erin McCabe said. "At half it was discouraging." 
The day was extremely cold, rainy, and windy. Both teams were slipping and sliding on the field. Injuries and sore muscles plagued the Belles. Senior co-captain Barger left the game 10 minutes into the second half with an injured shin. 
"l feel that the weather was a factor," McCabe said. "We've never been down by that much and had to come back," McCabe said. "But we'll get them next year." 
tast year, Saint Mary's also lost to Calvin, 6-0. This season, Calvin remains undefeated 
VOLLEYBALL 

NELLIE WILLIAMSffhe Observer Freshman forward Heather Muth passes-the ball in the Belle's 5-0 loss to Calvin Wednesday. The shutout marks the first home-field loss for the squad. 
and in second place, behind league leader and defending champion Kalamazoo College. Saint Mary's record falls to 1-4-1 in MIM league play and 7-3-2 for the season. 
"We played well -we had some good shots, but we broke down," freshman Lynn Taylor said. "It was frustrating." 
Saint Mary's next league game is away at Alma College on Oct. 16. Their next home game is against Washington University, on Oct. 17. Both games start at noon. 
"These girls aren't going to give up," Milligan said. "They know that they're a good team and that it takes time to devel­op." 
Belles best Britons in bittersweet victory 

KRISTINE KAAI/The Observe, Sophomore Suzanne Martin sets the ball in the Belles 3-1 win over Albion College. 
By KATIE MCVOY Sports Write 
It was a bittersweet evening for the senior members of the Saint Mary's volleyball team Wednesday at Angela Athletic Facility. 
The Belles beat Albion College 3-1 during the final home game of the season as seniors Agnes Bill, Mary Rodovich and Jayne Ozbolt said good-bye to their home court. 
"In terms of leadership and enthu­siasm, this is a group that will be missed," head.coach Randa Shields said. 
The Belles ended their home stand on a good note. Coming into the game with a league rncord of 3-2, the Belles were looking for a victory. They faced the 8ritons of Albion College who came into the match with a league record of 2-1. 
Saint Mary's started the evening slowly, allowing Albion to take an early 4-1 lead in the first game. 
"I think we start-See Also ed off slow," 
"Bills sisters 
Ozbolt said. "Our 
excel"
communication was slow, so we 
page22
weren't hitting very well." 
The Belles picked up the pace later in the first game, however, and beat the Britons 15-13 on a kill by Ozbolt and Bill. Saint Mary's slowed down again during the second match, dropping it to Albion 13-15. 
"The first two games we didn't play to potential." Shields said. "We needed to step it up for the next two 
see BELLES/page 21 
This, that and the other 
The ever-changing world of sports has given us too many stories this week and not near­ly enough time to write them! 
Friday night marks the beginning of another Irish bas­ketball 
season. Brian Churney Midnight 
madness is upon us. On the Hot Wilha Corner 
women's team that's ranked in the top 10 of many publications and a men's team that seems on the brink of re-establishing itself as a for­midable team, this season promises Domers an opportu­nity to support a team othr.r than the football team strug­gling to land a coveted spot in the prestigious Insight.com bowl. 
Speaking of football, could we please beat USC'? We Californians have always been able to justify leaving the sun and beaches of the Golden State for the gray clouds and cornfields of the Hoosier StatP­by saying that at least we have a good football team. After three years of painful defeats, the argument is losing some force. 
Lou Holtz used to say that every Domer deserved at least one title in his or her four years here. All we're asking is one victory over the Trojans. My, have standards changed. 
Indians pitching debacle 
Was this year's pitching debacle enough to help the Cleveland Indians recognize the one thing that all of the teams still left in the playoffs have in common, good pitch­ing? They've spent millions of dollars compiling a team of offensive superstars that rivals any offensive line-up in the his­tory of the game. Yet they still send out Charles Nagy, whose EBA is nearly five, in the final and deciding game. The Indians scored a whopping 32 runs in the five game series, averaging over six runs a game. But, alas, this could not compare to the nine-plus runs a game that Boston was able to score, leaving Indians' fans to hope that Curt Schilling will sonrn<lay leave the City of Brotherly Love. 
Brotherly Love in Philly 
Boy, was that a lot of broth­erly love that Philadelphians extended to Michael lrvin as he 
see CHURNEY/page 20 
vs. Villanova, Cross Country
Saint Mary's Golf . Saturday, 7:30 p.m. at Defiance College, at Central Collegiates, 
SPORTS 'SJ t!I 
Saturday, Noon Friday, 4 p.m. 
•
ATA • 
Golf vs. use,at Providence, at Louisville Invitational, Saturday, 1:30 p.m. 
Friday, 4:35 p.m. t • 
Oct. I 8-I 9, All Day
GLANCE ' 








