More on the ad policy . 
Making beautiful music 
Todd David Whitmore and a letter writer pre­
You wouldn't find senior Alexis Belis marching 

Wednesday
sent their differing takes rm the new policy's 
with the band, but she is attracting attention 
relationship to Catholic teachings. 
with her skills as a harpist. 
SEPTEMBER 8, 
page 12 
page 14 
1999 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIII NO. 12 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


Bourgeois: School of the A01ericas trains cri01inals 
countries about democracy.
. Students encouraged 

flowcver, as Bourgeois said, to voice opposition "Soldiors come to learn lo be commandos, to practice psycho­
against government 
logical warfare, and counter­insurgoncy tactics." Many SOA graduates have
By MATT BUNDA 
become dictators, drug-runnr.rs, 
New, Wm.-r 
or agt~nts of' dictatorial govern• ments upon leaving the school,
"Thos,: who have a voice 
said Bourg,mis. 
should sp1mk for tho voicnless; According to Bourgeois, grad­
ancl I hop,, uates of SOA 
lhat WB will 
have had a 

spNtk dearly "Soldiers come to learn hand in near­and boldly," 
to be commandos, to ly all human 
said Fallrnr rights viola·

practice psychological
Hoy Bour­
tions in Latin 

geois, a war.fare and counter­
America in 
human rights 

insurgency tactics." the recent 
activist and past. These 
leadt\r of tlrn 
reports

School or Father Roy Bourgeois 
included the /\mnricas School of Americas Watch assassination Watch. 
of ArchbishopTim wnll-Romero in El 
atlPndnd prn-
Salvador, the murder of' four 
sentation in th,~ llesburgh 
religious womrm. two of whom Library Auditorium last night were friends of Bourgeois, the 
was part or a larger effort to 
killing of six Jesuit priests, their nducat1! p1wpil• about social jus­
maid and her daughter in San 
licP and liuman rights violations, Salvador and the mass homicide 
specifically thos1i of thi1 United of a Mayan community in Latin Stahis government through the America. 
School of Lim Americas (SOI\). 
Placing emphasis on tlrn need SO;\ is a U.S. government pro­
lo follow higher laws of "con­

gram run al F()rt Benning, (;a., whirh rlaims lo educate young nwn from poor Latin American see SOA/page 4 



FACULTY SENATE 


Advertising policy sparks debate 
By JOSHUA BOURGEOIS 
As,i.stanr News Editor 
Thn Faculty Senate con­ve1wd for tlrn J'irst timn this aradPmic yirnr Ttwsday night in the C1inter for Continuing Education discussing such topics as tlw Univrrsity's ban on advnrtisnnwnts from Gay and I.nsbian Alumni/ae ol' Notrn llamn and Saint Mary's Col11:gn j(;t\Lt\j in The OhsPrver and past rnsolu­tions i:oncorning thu Wom,rn's l!tisourcn Center. 
Faculty SPnaln chair l'rofnssor Jnan l'ortnr stated in hor chairperson's rnpnrt that "she, rnceived a !titter from Dr . .John Blanf'ord, chair of GAi.A, requesting the Senate to investigate the rncnnlly announcnd policy banning Thu Observer from accepting advertising from 
GAL/\." 
Porter tlrnn cited further leltcrs she received regard­ing the GALA issue from both Blanford and assistant to the l'resid1mL Chandra Johnson. With regard to the contro­versy. Porter approved of an investigation into the issue 
"Our first approach is to 
look at the policies from 
other Catholic 
institutions." 
Ava Preacher Assistant Dean of Arts & Letters 
by the Committee on Student /\!lairs. 
"/\ftnr consulting with thn Exocutive Committee, I have concluded LhaL this policy dons have many ramifica­tions for the Notre Dame community as a whole, and I am accordingly asking the Committen on Studnnt Affairs to investigate it, and to report back lo the faculty Senate al the earliest oppor­tunity," Porter said. 
During the committee report session, assistant dean Ava Preacher, chair of Committee on Student Affairs, discussed thP-com­mittee's initial methods in investigating the situation. 
''Our Lthe Committee on Student Affairs'] first approach is to look at the policies from other Catholic 

institutions, and then at Notre Dame's advertisement policies. We would like to have a resolution or conclu­sion by next month's meet­ing," Preacher said. 
In her chairperson's report. Porter updated the Faculty Senate on the three resolutions passed by the Faculty Senate in the March 1999 meeting. She indicated that the resolutions have either been dismissed or referred to the Campus Life Council by the Academic Council. 
Porter then stated that cur­rently the Women's Resource Center is not under proba­tion, but they are prohibited in providing any information on abortion. 
During the meeting, the Faculty Senate passed four resolutions that were pro­posed by the Executive Committee. 
One of the resolutions passed resolved that "the Faculty Senate sponsor the Notre Dume Forum on Academic Life for the acade­mic year 1999-2000." The 
see SENATE/page 6 



AFL-CIO president to speak tonight 
By KRISTEN ALLEN News Writer 
John Sweeney, president of the American Federation of Labor and the Congress of' Industrial Organizations (AFL-CIOJ, 
will be on campus tonight to discuss the need for unions in the 21st century. 
Sweeney 

w I I I 
Sweeney

address topics . such as the disparity of wealth between the upper 
and lower classes and the number of hours Americans must work to earn a living wage. He will also discuss the impact of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) and the World Trade Organization (WTO) on the quality of life for workers. 
"He's very interested in jus­tice for workers, an adequate wage, adequate pensions and health care, safe and healthy 
working conditions and rea­sonable hours of work," said Father Patrick Sullivan, asso­ciate director of the Higgins Labor Research Center. "lie does this guided by the vast tradition of' Catholic social teacliing beginning back in 1891 with Pope Leo XIII." 
As a Catholic and head of the AFL-CIO, Sweeney has a great impact on workers both internationally and in the United States, said Sullivan. 
Tim AFI.-CIO is a voluntary federation of 68 national and international labor unions that represent 13 million peo­ple. It is an important institu­tion in the right against sweatshop labor, a battle the University began last year when deciding to investigate companies that manufacture Notre Dame apparel. 
J'he Higgins Labor Research Center, a sponsor of Sweeney's lecture, primarily does research on labor man­agement issues and training. The center also works with graduate students from a range of the University's scholarly disciplines. 
see UNIONS/page 4 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE . Wednesday, September 8, 1999 


INSIDE COLUMN 

I did it all for the cookie 
September 5, 1999: A day that will forever remain etched in my memory as the day I threw the cookie. 
My confession on this page will nut right my actions and is not intended tu convict an ill-tempered cookie-handler. My intention is to review the events of the tragic encounter so similar debacles can be avoided in the future. 
It all started Sunday evening. I was brow,;ing the various salad bars and entree islands at South Dining Hall when I noticed something new -fresh­baked cookies, oatmeal­rasin. 

You can imagine my delight to discover such a wonderful addition to SDH's food selection. I saw the dessert and reached for it. Jcould feel the soft warmness of the fresh baked morsel and as I lifted it from under the heat lamp my utopia came crashing down. 
"Will you wait until I'm done!" the vile voice bellowed at me, full of anger and disrespect. "You're supposed to use this, not your hands!" the SDH ~tudent-worker said maliciously as he raised a spatula in my direction. 
l was distraught. What had l done? I had sim­ply reached for a cookie with my hand while this young man was unloading the oatmeal-rasin goodness from the hot cookie sheet. 
I searched my memory for an explanation but found none. I could not recall my father opening a bag of Oreos and neatly serving himself with a pancake flipper, and Mom didn't serve Rice Krispies treats with tongs. I was dumbfounded but I was also mad. 
I felt my temperature rise, my back tense and my jaw tighten. At that point I stopped thinking ... and threw the cookie. 
It was not a Ryan Express fastball and it was not intended to maim. It was simply a protest, a very immature and ill-directed protest, but a symbolic protest at that. 
As the projectile flew it carried with it my anger and sadness as well as my poor judge­ment. I had not been scolded in that manner since middle school and even then I think [ had cut off my cat's whiskers, or something which warranted a scolding. 
Why did this university student/employee feel the need to attack me with such an aggressive tone. A simple, "Hey man. let me finish unload­ing the precious cargo and use this spatula. For health reasons we ask that you use utensils to serve yourself." 
l do believe the entire conflict would have been avoided had l been approached in this manner. 
I also believe the entire conflict would have been avoided had I relaxed and walked away from the situation. But I didn't and now I have regrets. 
I regret the way l acted. 1 regret that I failed to be kind and understanding towards another per­son and I am saddened that so many of us have forgotten about service with a smile and respect for others. 
l was once myself a dining hall employee and I understand the amount of stress and irritation that comes with the job. I am and will forever be a wandering cafeteria patron, surveyj.ng the Jell­
o and enjoying all-I-can-eat buffets. I promise from now on to use utensils when serving myself and to respect the often disgruntled student employee of our hallowed dining halls. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 



TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Bill Uniowski Mike Vanegas Mik-Romanchek Graphics Kate Sreer Amy Crownover 
Sports 

Lab Tech Brian Kessler 
Monica Garza 
Viewpoint Brian Hobbins 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) i, publuhcd Mornhy through Friday acq,r during cum and vac.ttion periods. 'The Obscn-rr is a fll"m bcr of th~ AU0021cd p....,._ ,\II n1>roduction rights are m,erv,d. 
THIS WEEK IN SOUTH BEND  
Wednesday  Thursday  Friday  Saturday  
. Line Dance Lessons:  . Salsa Dance Lessons:  . Michiana Dance Party:  . Adopt-A-Pet Day: Pnt  
Eagles Lodge, 7 p.m.  Club Landing, "8::10 p.m.  Community Hoom.  Refuge Inc., Mishawaka,  
. Swing Dance: Dan  . Swing Dance Lessons:  Scottsdale Mall, 7:30 p.m.  10 a.m. to 3 p.m.  
O'Days, Mishawaka: 8:45  Cracker's Lounge, Goshen,  . Annie Get Your Gun:  . Paul Deguch Hero Day:  
p.m.  8 p.m.  Amish Acres, Nappanee, 8  Covaleski Stadium, 8 a.m.  
p.m.  to 9 p.m.  

Compiled from U-Wire reports 


OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Police defend actions against CSU students 
COLORADO STATE UNIVERSITY "Beer bottles and canned the student section. Three days after hundreds of cele­Denver Police Det. Mary Thomas
goods were being thrown. At
bratory Colorado State University said Monday in hindsight, the students and fans were teargassed this point we think we did responding officers acted appropri­at Mile High Stadium, Denver Police ately. An internal "routine" investi­
respond appropriately" 
continue to ardently defend their gation is planned this week, she use of force, saying fans in CSU's said. student section were "ranting and Oet. Mary Thomas Fifteen CSU students were arrest­raving" and.unruly. Denver Police Dept. ed. The officers were trying to pre­
In the seconds following CSU's vent overzealous students from surprise victory over the 14th­Pat Conners, a sophomore CSU rushing the field. ranked University of Colorado, band member, said he barely made "Beer bottles and canned goods Denver police officers, donning riot it through the second run of the were being thrown. At this point. we gear, unleashed tear gas on the pre­fight song when the tear gas hit think we did respond appropriate­dominantly student crowd in the him. ly," Thomas said. northeast section of the stadium. "People in front of me started But many of the angry CSU stu­
Fans sitting up to 20 rows back putting their instruments down and dents and fans said they were just were clinging to one another in coughing. l finished the song and trying to leave the game and had no agony and collapsing in the aisles. that's when the gas hit me," he said. intention of tearing down the goal Police also sprayed a group of hud­"The police were all buddy-buddy posts when they were sprayed. dling cheerleaders and CSU band and patting each other on the back." Six people were trying to climb members who were playing the fight It was mandatory for band mem­the fence when the tear gas was song. bers to attend the game and sit in unleashed, police reports stated. 


Students dispute cause of MSU riot 
MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY 
Sixty-eight percent of 2,000 Michigan State University students surveyed in the spring said the March 27-28 riot was a result of too many restrictions placed upon them by the university. Sociology Professor Stan Kaplowitz helped design a study to find possible reasons for and reactions to the March incident. which followed the MSU men's basketball team's loss to Duke in the Final Four, and the Munn field riot on May 1, 1998. "The survey was designed to help better understand what happened the night of the riots," Kaplowitz said. "To understand the views of the student body and the youths that were part of the event." More than 50 per­cent of people surveyed said the university is trying to control student drinking too much. "Coincidentally, those who were most inclined to think students were excessively restricted by the university were the same who were more likely to riot and drink," Kaplowitz said. "Although we looked at a variety of reasons behind the riots, it cannot be overlooked that the drink index has the strongest correlation with student's attitudes toward the riots and the feeling that they are being restricted." 


LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
Remnants of Dennis flood Duke 

DUKE UNIVEHSITY 
The arrival of tropical depression Dennis on cam­pus this weekend brought more than just rain ­with it came a whole flood of problems. Between 7 
a.m. and 2 p.m. Sunday, facilities management employees received 15 calls in reference to 11ooding and leaks, said the employee answering calls on the after-hours service line. In the Biological Sciences Building's subbasement. approximately nine offices and labs flooded, said Don Watt, a facilities manage­ment employee working to clean up the mess. Watt said most of the flooding was caused by a "stopped­up drain" and leaks through the walls of the old building. He explained that the flooding was first discovered by a professor, who then called the ser­vice office and alerted his colleagues whose offices may have flooded too. Many dorm residents also found themselves dealing with rain-related prob­lems. Beverly Asan.te, Trinity junior and co-presi­dent of Prism, discovered a leak in her room around· noon -a leak that eventually caused the ceiling tile to fall in. 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatllres 
C 19-99 AccuWeathor. Inc. 
@'·"© D0IBJ . ru . .~·• 
High low ShOWHs Rliln T-atorm• Flurrlea Snow ice Sunny Pt, Clouct,. ~ Vi11 ~Ptrtss 
Albuquerque 67 59 Flagstafl 79 43 Kalispell 73 34 Bakersfield 95 68 Grand Junction 82 52 Los Angeles 76 64 ColoradoSpg$ 73 47 Hannibal 78 62 Monument 79 50 Denton 93 70 Idaho Spgs 52 28 Nederland 52 28 Evanston 75 30 Jacl<son 71 27 PhoeniK 107 81 

Wednesday, September 8, 1999 The Observer. . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Kohnen: Jubilee 2000 aiIDs to forgive third-world debt 

By ERJN L1RUFFA 
Nl'w~ Writer 
Whilti sonw i\111erkan colleg1, students might hav1! a hard limn sharing 01w teacher with 400 oLfinr students, in Mozamhiqtrn students fan, that r,,ality 1wnry day. 
Mozambique. wlwrn much of' tlw 1:ountry's financial r1:sourc11s am bl'ing usl'd to pay olT ils national d£,bt rather than 011 odu1:ation. is not alono in its high national dt>bt paymnnts and poor living conditions, said Harhara Kohnnn. 11o!icy advisor for ln!Prrrntional Economies and 
Office of International Study Programs ­Information Meetings 
M E X C 0 P R O G R A M S Professor Juan Rivera Claudia Kselman Student Returnees 
Thursday, September 9, 1999 Monday September 20 1999 126 DeBartolo 4:45 P.M. 
It's Not too late to apply for Spring 2000! 
Come hear abou·hw~ ~em opportunities aya)l~bl'~~fi,~q]~f"!na
-• f ! : t); f I \i • ' .. \.,. f .J h,.f' , #• ·.x ,J ',:::;/ !;:;; Dame ..r-,:::i1 :c·l r,l,.0,i n,;'.:!f~.;{:',r"\"1£2,nr
,...,,l., 'lvt :, ·. , 1 ·, ~ f,._...,...,. * f ~.,-\ ·,.,'-!If t ~ -· 1' 
business studeR1~;:J\t 1~~a.nce Procte.r and G·am.ble.1 1(:lil 
Visit us at our booth d1itin~fthe· dr • 
llunrnn !lights at tho United Stales Catholic Confcre11ce in Washington D.C., in her lecture Tuesdav. · 
In "A Jubilee Call /'or Debt Forgiveness: Is Debt Heliof Possible'/" Kohrnm discussed t.he proh!om of national dCTbt in impoverished countries. 
Mozumhiqne dedicates twice as much paying its debts than educating its peoplr.. When poor nations have large dP.bts, Kohnen said, thoir money goes towards rnpayment "instead of' invPsting in the kinds of things that are essential" to provide for thn people and for economic grnwth. 
The problem of national debt in poor countries arose in the 1970s when the Organization of tht~ Petroleum Exporting Countries /OPEC) raised the price ol' oil. OPEC countries made a great deal of money, which they invested in western banks. The banks, in turn, rent the money to other gnvcrn­mcnts for development projects, some of which were legitimate, but manv of which were not possible to implement. Kohnen stated. 
The deht problem worsnned when a world-wide recession hit in the l 970s, added Kohnen. lncrnasf'd interest rates meant ballooning debts, and decreased commodity prices left countries with no markets in which to sell their goods. 
In 1995. the World Bank leaked a copy of a report on Lhe dcbl of poor countries to a London newspaper. Also. the International Monetary f'und devnloped a plan to reduce the debts of the 45 poorest coun­tries. Such leaks, Kohnen said, were valuable because the media forced the World Bank to respond to questions about debt 
"[The World Bank and IMF] 


ND, SMC change shuttle company 
By KATIE MILLER 
News Writer 

Smaller seats and a different exterior are the first clues to changes that Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students will notice when they board the intercampus shuttles. · 
The explanation for these dis­
' 

had never before acknowledged that debt was a problem." Kohnen said. That initial acknowledgement was a "trig­ger" for the Jubilee movement.. 
The Jubilee 2000 campaign pushes for debt forgiveness in heavily ind{•bted poor countries -countries with an annual per capita income below $785 and have high deht-to-export ratios. Thirty-four of the 45 countries in that category are in Africa and have a combined debt of $158 billion, less than the United States' national debt. The U.S., however, dedicates one-seventh of its fedora! rev­emrn tll' debt payment. A coun­try such as Mozambique would have to dedicate half of its internal revenue to debt pay­ment every year, but it simply cannot do that. 
"[These countries) need other kinds of assistancH," such as help investing in order -to achieve "more secure futures," Kohnen said. 
Because of the work of the Jubilee organizations, the world's seven most industrial­ized nation:,, known as the G7, added debt to their 1998 and 1999 conference agendas. At each conference, 70,000 people 
tinct changes in the shuttle's appearance is that Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College opted to change shuttle services for the current year. United Limo, which previously provided shuttle ser­vice, has been replaced with Transpo. 
According to Keith Dennis, vice­president for finance and adminis­tration at Saint Mary's College, both companies submitted similar proposals for shuttle service, but Transpo offered a much lower fee. 
Transpo is not new to Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. Providing a citywide bus service, a Transpo bus has frequented the Library circle and Saint Mary's Holy Cross circle on daily routes. Transpo also served as the Notre Dame 
~~1~! 
:-~. ;· .;· fr-· _.., 'f,! . i-':'~ '. ~ J'.ijj
• " ~ ...· ,,<f ,. .·;·,. 
ROLFS SPORTS RECREATION CENTER DEPARTMENT OF ATHLETICS UNIYERS/TY OF NOTRE DAME 

Rolfs Sports Recreation Center Drop-In Recreation Schedule 
In-Line Hockey  Sundays  8:30-10:30  
Floor Hockey  Mondays  8:30-10:30  
Indoor Soccer  Tuesdays  8:30-10:30  
Volleyball  Wednesdays  7:00-10:00  
Lacrosse  Thursdays  8:30-10:30  
Badminton  Fridays  7:00-10:00  
Badminton  Saturdays  9:00-11 :00  

Come by Yourself, or Bring a Friend! 
All times are PM. Schedule is in effect only when classes are in session. 
protested l'or debt rnlief'. 
Al the 1999 conforence in .June, the G7 leaders agreed to grant $70 billion in debt for­giveness to 30 countries, yet the agreement doesn't come with appropriation. In a few weeks, Hrn U.S. House Banking Committee will nwiew the DHbt Holier for Poverty Heduction Act, which doesn't forgive debt. 
Both sncular and "faith-based organizations. especially the Catholic Church, but others as well," play an important role in the debt relief mov,mwnt, said Kohnrm. 
The name of the .lubi1£1e pro­gram is derived l'rom Pope John Paul II's Tertio Millennio Adveni,rnte. Atcording to Kohnen, the pope "linked debt forgiveness to the Old Testament id,rn of .lubilelL" In the Old Testament. the Jubilee was a timn to start over and. among other forms of' renewal, forgive d<ibt. There arn current­ly 53 .Jubilee 2000 campaigns worldwide. 
A graduate of Georgetown University with a master's degree from Duke University, Kohnen is currently promoting the "Jubilee Call for Debt Forgiveness." 
and Saint Mary's shuttle in thfl eighties. 
Although the shuttle companies have changed, there will be little change for studenL'i. The shuttle schedule is similar to last year's. The shuttle continues to run from its stops every half-hour during the day, and every hour at night. Additional stops have been added to facilitate I loly Cross College stu­dents. 
Transpo stated that it will pro­vide superior service to the cam­puses because of its location. Transpo headquarters are located close to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. If any problems. such as a breakdown, occur, thfly can be easily remndied, according to the company. 

College of Business Career Forunl; 




September19th & 1~~~~:;,~::,;u 
COBA ~0.9QYt~3~~·,,~hJVv'I edge 
Wednesday, September 8, 1999
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
page 4 
SOA 
continued from page 4 
science, love and the law of Cod." Hourgeois encouraged the attendees to help make others aware of the atrociUes and inj us­tice of SOA. Following these laws of conscience, however, have landed him in jail for several stints. totaling up to four years served. He said he sees this as a necessary evil. but he said, "I was ang;y to go to prison for acts of nonviolence. while killers get amm1sty." 
Perhaps the mosl intriguing crime for which he was sen­tenced was his first charge of criminal trespassing and imper­sonating an officer 13ourgeois and several fellow activists dressed as officers and entered Port Benning, carrying a loud str-ireo. In the tape player was a cassette of Archbishop Romero's last speech, given tho day before he died, which called for a stop to the killing in El Salvador and br,seechcd the commandos workinK for the dictators and drug runners of the country to follow Lhe. higher command of God. rather than the commands of their superiors. 
The group was saluted as it entNed and the members pro­
another trespassing charge, occurrnd after he "crossed the line" at the annual protest at Port Benning two yf)ars ago. The protest, which will sec its 10th anniversary this yr-iar. is a gath­ering of people outside the walls of lhe base who demand the closing of the school. Among the activities is a march onto the base by protesters as an act of 
civil disobedience. 
Line-crossers are sometimes 
arrested and jailed for six 
months. Last year 2.314 people 
crossed, overwhelming the base 
personnel and forcing a mass 
release of all the protesters. 
Bourgeois hopes lo lead 5000 
people across at this year's 
protest on Nov. 21. 
A faction from the Notre Dame 
community, led by Pax Christi, 
plans to attend this year's 
protest. 
Also highlighted in his lecture 
was the story of his work as a 
missionary in 13olivia, where he 
first learned of the U.S. govern­
ment's injustice and its bolster­
ing of dictatorial rngimes in 
Latin America. lie talked of his 
work with the poor communities 
in La Paz, Holivia and the "cruel 
theology" used to oppress them. 
"The poor were taught Lo 
accept suffering as God's will, 
and tu wait until the next life for 
redemption. It was a theology 
that made the rich richer and 

they were victims of "irresponsi­ble· stewardship of God's cre­ation" rather than victims of an angry God's will. 
His work in La Paz inspired him to look at the actions of the 
U.S. government in Latin America to find the cause of some of the tyranny and suffer­ing. HR found SOA to be a mid­wife of some of this oppression. 
Bourgeois has spent the greater part of the last ten years working to spread the word about SOA. 
"We knew if people under­stood what this issue was really about. peop!R would respond," he said. 
He and other members of SOA Watrh organize protests, write letters to Congress, distribute newsletters and rally others to join their cause. SOA Watch has· seen recent success, as Bourgeois was quick to point out that a bill has passed the U.S. House to cut some of the funding for the program. The group also the support of many other orga­nizations. including the 13 mil­lion union members of the AFL­CIO. 
Encouraging all at the lecture to attend the protest in November. Bourgeois called the protest "A celebration of hope and joy," and an opportunity "to gather to speak for the silenced." 

International Union (SEIU) in 1960 as a contract director

Union 
and was later elected presi­continued from page 1 deut or the SEIU in 1980. He ------------served four terms before he Sweeney has been a labor was elected president of the reader since he graduated AFL-CIO in October, 1995. from Iona College in New His lecture. the 22nd annu­Rochellc. N.Y. Beginning as al Lloyd McBride Memorial a research assistant with the Lecture, begins at 8 p.m. Ladies Garment Workers, he tonight in room 102 of' joined the Service Employees DeBartolo Hall. 
CORRECTIONS 
rather Hoy Bourgeois' name was misspelled in an article in Tuesday's Observer. The same article also said that Bourgeois had founded the School of the Americas. when in fact. he had founded the School or the Americas Watch. 
Bill Hoyo's name was misspelled in the Quotes of the Week Section of Tuesday's edition. 

CLARIFICATION 
An article in Tuesday's Observer said that Hepublican con­gressman Joseph Kennedy had recently introduced a bill to close the training camp. Joseph Kennedy was a Democrat and is no longer a congressman. as he lel't office in January. and introduced the bill more than two years ago. 
The Observer regrets the errors. 
ceeded to climb a tree outside· the base and played the speech, which angered the officers at the base and resulted in their quick removal and arrest. 
His most recent stint in prison, kept the poor and oppressed, willing to accept the will of the small, elite group ruling thr-i country," said Bourgeois. 
But, according to Bourgeois, the poor eventually learned that 



Fall Break Setninars 
October 17-22, 1999 Experiential/Service Learning 
Center for Social Concerns 
APPALACHIA SEMINAR 
Service Learning at one of 15 sites in the Appalachian region One credit Theology 


CULTURAL DIVERSITY SEMINAR 
0
Explore the cultural richness of Chicago 
Examine issues of diversity and related concerns One-credit Theology or Sociology Cosponsored with Multicultural Student Affairs 

WASHINGTON SEMINAR 
Theme: Jubilee Justice 2000-·> 

Direct contact with political, agency, and Church leaders in Washington, D.C. 
Service and political awareness opportunities 
One-credit Theology or Government 
CHILDREN & POVERTY SEMINAR ~ -New seminar examining key children's concerns Focus on direct service and policy initiatives Site: Boston or New York One-credit Theology or Psychology 
Applications Available Now at the CSC 

CENTER FOR 

Applications Due: Thursday, Sept. 9, 1999 SOCIAL 
CONCERNS 

Going after what you want. Giving it your all. Proving you have what 
it takes. People like 
you are finding 
SUCCeSS and enjoying 
all its rewards at Fifth 
Third Bank. We're the 
most profitable bank 
in the country and a diversified financial services company. 
Business here is 
anything but business as usual. We're Sffiaflef, quicker to react and totally driven -just like JOU. 
If you' re finishing your degree or have just completed it, we invite you to consider start­ing your career here. Gain all the advan­tages of expanding opportunity, individual prosperity and high visibility when you invest your talent in one of our dynamic 
divisions:  Retail  Banking,  Commercial  
Banking,  Investment Advisors,  Midwest  
Payment  Systems,  Operations,  Data  

Processing, and Support Services. See our Web site for specific opportunities. 
www.53.com 
Please join us during our campus visit! 
Second Annual Busine~ Career.Forum Sept. 10, 1999 1Oa.m.-3:30p.m. College of Business Adminis1ration 
Ifyou are unable to attend, please contact 
Fifth Third Bank, Fdth Third Centet" MD 109021, Cincinnati, OH 45263. Fax: 513­744-1960. Email: tracey.hilgeman@53.com. 
Fifth Third is committed to diversity and equal employment opportunity. We sup­port an environment in which all people can succeed. 
flJ 
Fifth Third Bank 
Working Hord To Be The Only Bank Vo11'D Ever Need. 


.





orld 
I ¦ n 
Wednesday, September 8, 1999 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Pakistan pushes for nuclear treaty 
ISIAMAB/\11, l'akistan 

l'akistan lll'g('d world pmwrs on TL11\sday to lll'PSs India to si~ll a 11uclnar tnsl ban trnaly. sayin~ lhat 11alim1's plans lo 1·onlint11• nuclear ll•sls makes it i111possibl1· for Pakistan lo r.onsid­c•r the• ac1·ord. Pakistan's Fon•ign S1\cr<'lary Sha111shad Ahmad wariwd of' morn nuclear t,·sLs hy India and said Pakistan would be forc1~d lo rPs.pond if such lnsls w1•rn 1·arrind out. "Pakistan ,:an and will fiml ways and moans to 111ai111ai11 u 1·1nlil1l1, mwlPar d1iln1TP1H:1, a~ainsl India. without thP rn•<'d lo 11wtch ii -bomb for lm111h. 111issih· l'or missil1•," Ahmad suid. "llic mwh•ari1.alion of Sout.h Asia is 1witlwr or our mnki11g nor of' our rhoir.1\ hut it is now a nmlity that ra1111ot lw wislwd away." India u11v11ih!d a chll'I rin1• last month lhnl said it will p11rs1rn a policy o!' crmlibk nul'lmir d(1t('IT1mcn and will us1• such WP1tp1111s only in rnLaliatio11. 
Scientists fit research into IMAX 
WASI 11!'.l(;TON 

Wlit•11 ttw S111ilhso11iall Institution and th1• IM:\X Corp. dP1·id1id to makl' a moviP about Lim (;a!apagos Islands tlw nisull Wl'nt lwyond tlw gia11l SITPPII -sriPntists squ1•flznd in P1wugh rPs1•a1Th to disrovPr n10rP than a dozPn mari1w spccit!s. "(;alapagos," thl' 1ww 3-D lilm focusing 011 tlw unusual wildlifo on and around tlrn l'adlk island group WPSt of Ecuador. will havn it<; world prP111ilirn O!'t. 27 at Urn Smithsonian's National Mus1•11111 o!' Natural llistory. It follows PXploralions of marirw biologist Caroln Baldwin in Llw spa surrounding Llw ttJ islands and also visils tlw rarP and unusual land animals. "I think I was ('hosl'n !Jncausl' I had 1wvcr bPen lhPl'I', and ilwv wanl«'cl a sri1inlisl witl1 frnsh ('VI'S, somPmw tlH• audiPncP (:oulcl follow. It was r,·mtastir." shn said in a tPh·phonn inlNViPW. 
Hospital death trial begins 
BHAZII., Ind. 

t\ l'ornwr 1111rs1i drnrgl'cl with killing St!Ven PldNly palif'nts with drug injnlions wnnt on lri,!I T1wsday, with a pros1•cutor acn1sing him of' ••xmTising lil'P-ancl-dPath pow,ir that "bdongs in tlw hands ol' Cod." Orvilln Lynn Majors Jr.. ]8. l'acns lil'f' in prison ii' convi!'.Lml in tlw dnaths, whil'h took placP at V1•rn1illio11 County Ilospital. IIi! has said all ol' tlw patinnts dind of nalural rnusns. "Tlw «'VidPlll'P in this casn will rnvnal till' story of' a man who took into his hands tlm kind or' pow,•r we as a sodnty havl) dndded lwlongs in Lill' hands of' Cod," prosncutor Nina i\hixandrn· said in h1\r opPning statmnnnt. "This man nx1•1Tis1~d this pownr 011 tlrn sick and lh11 PldPrly." ,\IPxa111lnr said nwdical Pxpnrts will lPsl.if'y that tlw d1iath of Pach paliPnl was eonsis­t1•11t with injPclions of polassium rhloridn. Vials 1·m1laini11g traws ol' tlw drug and syring1is wnre l'ound al Majors· honrn and in his van. polim ~aid. 
Market \¾'Itch: 9/1 

Dow 

AMEX: 793.67

JONES 
1-7.28 Up: N11srlac1:

11034.13 2048 

2!07.26 
5.85 
Bl 



NYSE: 
Down:

62J.71 
516
-2. IH S&P 500: 1350.45 
Composite
.(1,79 
Volume: 

-44.32 707 .400,000 
VOlUME LEADERS 

4'M.lfl. 11•1.1.,·o\l..l'lfk UUJ. a&'il.Jli
.,1.n .11_"~.,.~ 

CIH,\( l.t ( C . M!' OHC:l. •~-~1 ---2..Hnn JJ,ill Ml( JtO"ifJt,'1 C'Uttl' M~•-1 -1.M -1.~l~II 
'l,1,2!1 1'!1n.nno• l~r< •I.ti!! .l.ftl)H, 117.62 ( l"lnJ"'i'f:"ilt\l'\ lM"tl -u.1, .u.:-;,1~ 
10,lH ,un \\'Oki I){ OM IN WC'flM -1.IU ·I.Ull!I 71.Ult "'""" Ml( tu,~y,-.u:~1 
SUN\\' ,.,:,I~ 1-I.M1DII Mfdl AMAl,O,.._,( 01\1 IN( AMZN tlUltl +It, ~fl2:-'-2,94 A.f'l'1.rn,Ml't11rtt -'AN, +J.1'l 1-2.JOUf!I 
71't,JM 

Hffl lt.\T IN( HHJ\T +;11.,~ 1'-1),fh'i.1'$ l!)#J)li 
COMPILED FH0M TIIE OBSERVEH WlllE SEHVICES page 5 
LIBYA 


AFP Pholo A Libyan soldier drives a vehicle mounted with missiles Tuesday, during a military parade in Tripoli to mark the 30th anniversary of the Libyan Revolution that brought Moammar Gadhafi to power. Troops from 24 African states joined the five-hour parade. 


Gadhafi marks 30 years in power 
Associated Press 
THIPOLI 

Flanknd by more than two dozen African lr.adnrs, a jubilant Moammar Gadhafi on Tuesday staged a mas­sive show of force, displaying long­range missiles, warplanes and tanks at a five-hour parade marking his JOth ynar in power. 
Dressed in a white naval. military uniform and a gnwn sash studded with gold mndals, Gadhafi raised two arms in salute to his troops, pounded a clenchnd fist on the arm of his gilded chair as the military band played and craned his neck to watch tighter jets piloted by women officers flying low over the Mediterranean coast. 
Thousands of soldiers marched in tlrn parade, .Urn biggest in Tripoli since the United Nations lifted its 
sanctions in April following Libya's handover of two suspects in the 1988 bombing of a Pan Am airliner over Lockerbie, Scotland. The explo­sion killed 270 people, mostly Americans and Britons. 
It was a tableau Gadhafi has been eager to show the world. Ostracized and isolated for seven years because of the sanctions, Gadhafi hopes to return to the international stage. 
Even though only about half of the expected 46 African heads of state showed up, their presence gave him the legitimacy ho nneds to make his first step in that direction. 
Tho parade was also an opportuni­ty to display Libya's might, which commentators at the parade said was at the disposal of all countries in Africa "to defend them against enemy attacks." 
"Africa, Africa, Africa," chanted Libya's Green Hnvolutionary Guard. "A flaming, burning lirn, Africa." 
Also present were Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat and Esmat Abdel Mcguid, secretary-general of the Arab League. 
The celebrations culminated a week of festivities marking the 30th anniversary of the coup that brought Gaclhafi, then 27. to power. To coin­cide with the commemoration, Gadhafi opened a four-day summit of the Organization of African Unity in Tripoli on Monday that will dis­cuss reframing the organization's charter and Gadhafi's proposal to unitn Africa by promoting economic cooperation and building bnttcr transportation links. 
A contingent of conscripts born in l %9, the year or the coup, jogged by shouting: "Libya, tlrn revolution. Unity, unity." 

Quake in Greece kills 32, others missing 
But some signilicant dif­Athens, where construction missing was unclear, but Associated Press 
ferences came lo light in standards were apparently state media said about two 
the shared disru;ters. lower or builders used dozen people were Lrnppccl 
ATIIENS, Grnecc Decades of progressively shortcuts, some officials in flattened apartment 
Hoscuo teams and strif't<-r building codes in suggestnd. buildings. An nstimatnd 40 stunned residenls used Greece allowed Athens to More than 100 buildings worknrs were missing in a 1wcrything from cranes to ride out the 5.9-magnitude collapsed, from multistory collaps1ld foam products garden tools Tuesday lo dig temblor with much less apartment houses to facto­factory north of Athens, and l'or those pinned under misery than western ries, and hundreds morn about a dozen employees wreck'age from the Turkey, whore shoddy con­were loft with cracks or were reported under tlw strongest earthquake to hit struction was blamed for crumbled facades. rubble of an appliance Athens in nearly a century Lhe near total destruction of Hundreds of resr.ue work­maker's building. -a 10-sucond shudder some places after the 7.4-ors -some who looked for The !'ire departmnnt lhat claimed at least 32 magnitude quake on Aug. survivors in Turkey -were placnd the numbor of miss­lives and left close to 100 17. joined by rosidcrnts atop ing at 45, but it was unclnar missing. "Damage like we saw in piles of rubble. Spotlights whether the tally included 
Thti scenes of desperate Turkcv is dillicull to occur illuminated areas as work all sites. si1archm; and survivors too here with the modern build­pressed on through the In central Athens, there frighlened lo return indoors ings we have," said Manolis muggy night. was no apparent clamagP lo wern sadlv familiar -lasl Skordilis, head of the State television reported ancient sites, including tlw month's 1110nstrous quake Thessaloniki Seismological at least 32 people dead. Acropolis and the townring in neighboring Turkey had Institute. including several young columns of the Temple of moved many Greeks lo put Most of the damage and children. Most of the victims Zeus. Th11 National aside their ·historical enmily casualties were concentrat­were crushed and a few Archaeological Museum with Turks and mobilize ed in working-class and suffered fatal heart attacks. reported some damage to aid. immigrant areas north of The exact number of items. but gave no details. 
page 6 The Observer . NEWS Wednesday, September 8, 1999 

Kachmarik seeks to increase pride 
By MOLLY MCVOY 
A.ssisranr Spores Editor 
Lynn Kachmarik began this week as the new athletic director for Saint Mary's full of excitemcilt and expecta­tions. 
"This is a great time to be al Saint Mary's," Kachmarik said, "I really hope to take the Saint Mary's athletic pro­gram to a whole new level." 
Kachmarik eumes from Bucknell University where she served as assistant ath­letic director. 
Her involvement in wom­ens' sports provides the back­ground she needs for her work at the college and the foundation for her future goals, 
At Bucknell, Kachmarik set up panels of alumni which met with female student ath­letes and prnvided career information and opportuni­ties, 
She hopes to do the same at Saint Mary's, 
"One of my main goals is to establish connections with past alumni. "Kachmarik said. 'Td like to touch base with Saint Mary's women from the past," 
She believes that connec­tions with other strong women is extremely impor­tant. especially in an athletic setting. 
"In my career, I wish I had more women role models." Kachmarik said. "Here, at Saint Mary's, I found what I was lacking." 
One result of these alumni connections which Kachmarik hopes for is increased support for Saint Mary's athletics and pride in the college. Sho hopes that during her time here she can encourage students, faculty and alumni to actively sup­port Belles' athletics. 
"Saint Mary's pride is very important to me," she explained, "Pride; not only in our varsity athletics, but in Saint Mary's in general, There are so many great things about being at Saint Marv's." 
Kichmarik is Pntering Saint ~Iary's athletics at a very exciting and changing time as the college joins the MIAA conference. New facilities are being added and new staff is being hired. 
Kachmarik recently hired a new assistant athletic direc­tor, Gretchen Hildebrandl, from Holy Cross College, a Division I college in Massachusetts, She graduat­od from Bucknell University where she swam under Kachmarik. Hildebrandt will also take over as head swim coach for Jini Cook who is leaving. 

"I feel a loss without IJinil alreadv," Kachmari.k com­mented. "But, Gretchen is a fantastic, wonderful person who the swimmers should be able to relate to immcdiatc­lv." 
· The athletic facilities are, being updated and renovated, and Kachmarik feels that quality facilities are integral in a quality athletic program. 
"Its difficult to recruit stu­denl athletes without good facilities," she said, "I would like to see facilities that will sustain the stuuent athletes and the Saint Mary's commu­nity for a long time, state of the art facilities for Saint Mary's." 
Of all the opportunities Saint Mary's offers Kachmarik, the pnople she will work with are what she is most excited about. 
"I was really impressed with the quality of people I met in thP interviewing process," said Kachmarik. "From the vice president to the student workers, they have all been wonderful," 

Journalist adillits to plagarislll 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 
A TV columnist for The Indianapolis Star and News was fired Tuesday for allegedly plagiarizing material from other publications, 
Steve Hall, who recently was suspended for one apparent incident of plagiarism, was dis­missed after a review turned up more examples, according to an announcement Tuesday on the newspaper's Web site by Executive Editor Frank Caperton. 
"'In these cases, stories pub­lislrnd under Hall's byline were similar to stories that had appeared in other publica­tions," Caperton wrote. "Hall had been warned at the time of his suspension that he would be dismissed if further lapses came to light." 
Caperton declined further comment. 
!fall did not return calls 
Tuesday from The Associated Press. He told WRTV, an Indianapolis TV station, that lie \\ishes the newspaper had han­dled the situation differently, 
"l think it's unfortunate that I'm being fired over similarities in a handful of stories consider­ing that I wrote more than 5,200 stories during the 12 years I worked for the Star," Hall said. 
On Aug. 27, Hall was sus­pended for three weeks vvithout pay after editors at the paper noticed a story he had submit­ted for publication was similar to one published in a different newspaper. 
The apparently plagiarized story was never published. 
Hall, who had been a TV writer at the ne,vspaper for 13 years, apologized in a state­ment that was run on the front page of the newspaper the next day. 
"Because of time pressures, I made a stupid mistake and vio-




Ki Aikido 
Wednesdays -7:30-9:00 Beginning September 15 
Demonstration 
September 8 • 7: 30pm 

Rockne 219 
Register in Advance at RecSports Class Fee is $19 Call 1-6100 for More Information 
R~~ 

lated a sacred law of our pro­
fession," he said in the state­
ment. "I apologize to our read-, 
ers and my family. co-workers .and friends." 
The newsroom staffs of the 
Star and News merged in 1995 
and the News is due to close 
Oct. 1. 

Senate 
continued from page l 
Notre Dame Porum began in the fall of 1994 and allows the Notre Daine community to discuss matters concerning the academic life of the University in an open forum. 
The Faculty Senate also passed on a resolution that would "conduct a survey of faculty opinion during the 1999-2000 academic year on the performance of the cur­rent provost." Many members of the Faculty Senate stated that this resolution was nec­essary because Provost Nathan Hatch will be subject to formal review during the 2000-2001 academic year. 
Two resolutions passed dealt with amending both the Statutes of the University and the Bylaws of the University, One resolution wanted to add to the statutes the statement, "The minutes of all meetings of the Fellows shall be pub­lished in a timely manner in the Notre Dame Report." The second resolution amends the Bylaws of the University. It states, "The minutes of all meetings of the Board of Trustees, including the nrnfit­ings constituted only by vot­ing members, shall be pub­lislrnd in a timely manner in the Notre Dame Heport." 



2 U 
Pulliam Journalism Fellowships 
Graduating college seniors are invited to apply for the 27th annual Pulliam 
Journalism Fellowships. We will grant.IO-week summer internships to 20 journalism or liberal arts majors in the August 1999-June 2000 graduating classes. 
Previous internship or part-time experience at a newspaper is desired, or other demonstration of writing and reporting ability. Those who go through the Fellowships often find new professional opportunities opening up at other newspapers during and after the program. Winners will receive a $5,500 stipend and will work at either The Indianapolis Star or The Arizona Republic. Opportunities for online training are available, along with reporting experience at our major metropolitan daily newspapers. 
Early-admissions application postmark deadline is Nov. 15, 1999. By Dec. 15, 1999, up to five early-admissions winners will be notified. All other entries must be postmarked by March 1, 2000, and will be consid­ered with remaining early-admissions applicants. Successful applicants will be notified on or before April 1, 2000, and will be asked to respond immediately with a letter of intent, at which time one-third of the cash grant will be mailed to the Fellow. 
To request an application packet, visit our Web site, e-mail us or write: 
Russell B. Pulliam Pulliam Fellowships Director Indianapolis Newspapers 

Web site: ,, "\\,starn;;-ws.com/p1f P.O. Box 145 E-mail: pu llic1111(n,s1an1L'vlis.co111 
Indianapolis, IN 46206-0145 


OFFICE OF INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS ­INFORMATION MEETINGS 

SANTIAGO, CHILE PROGRAM 
Carmen Nanni Student Returnees 
Wednesday September 8, 1999 120 DeBartolo 4:45 PM 
Wednesday September 15 l999 South Dining Hall Hospitality Room 4:45 PM 

IT'S NOT TOO LATE TO APPLY FOR SPRING 2000 
U U 
-------------¦---·...·----------------~~--_ _.....__ ---------------~----·------·---------­
Wednesday, September 8, 1999 The Observer . GOVERNMENT NEWS page 7 


Gore sets health care goal 
A-.odated l'rcn 
I.OS ANGELES 

Vic11 l'rnsidcnt Al Gorn promisPd Tuosday to nnsurn that all childrnn have accoss lo nfford a bin 
ll('alth can1 llv 200;,, oi'fl'ring-a wid11-ra11g­i11g pal'kagH llf' rPl'orms aimnd at bringing llS many as 15 


million u11i11-Gore sur1icl A11wrica11s i11lo the health cam system. 
Yr,t Llw DPmocralic presid1m­tial candidato strnssml that, ii' Im cuphfrPd tlrn White Ilouse. Im would purstH' tlrn sanw incrn­nwntul approal'h lo changing hPallli earl' that l'rPsid1!nt Clinton mloplnd 1t!lcr hh; altcmpl t11 revamp tlw system failnd lo win <'ongrPssional approval in 
I•)')4. 
"W1i hnvn all lnHrrwd that Wll cannot ovorhaul tlw systnm in 01m foll swoop." Gorn said at Childri•n's llospilal. "FxpPri11noi has laughL us that Lhnrn is a way to keep what is right. whilt~ lixing what is wrong with American lwalll1 ,:are." 
Till' llllV(!iling or Gorn's health t"an~ proposals -and Texas Cov. c;norg11 W. Bush's announcnmcnt of his Pducation program last WPl'k -moves the campaign for Liu• Whitn I louse to n new stage as llin candidaws b1•gin offering 
Mishawaka Wal*Mart Super Center 
Vision Center proudly welcomes 
Dr. Troy Rhodes, OD 
Independent Dr. of Optometry to our office 
243-9714 

Specializing in family optome­try and contact lenses 
sp1\cilics 011 their ag1mdas. 
Gore did not mention Bush in his remarks, but onn rcfernnco clearly was aimed al tho Hnpublican presidential front­runner. "In some states -Toxas springs to mind -one-quarter of all children arc still out in the cold," Gore said. 
Wilh his proposal, the vice prnsidnnt staked out different ground than that ol' his Democratic rival. l'ormcr Sen. Bill BradJ1\y, whD hai. said he will propo_sn somnthing approaching universal coverage, and Hopub!icans and health industry advocalm,, who fear that impos­
. ing too many mandates on pri­vate health care firms will drive up cosL,;;. While portions of his packago wero rww, Gorn borrowed !wavi­ly from initiatives promoted by Clinton, and, in a few casos, by 

"We have all learned that
Hnpublicans. care coverage, "Taken we cannot overhaul and tho num­togeLher. these ber has >:,trown
the system in 

stops will make by about 1 mil• lrnallh care one fell swoop." lion a year this affordable for decade. Some millions of 11 million chil­
Al Gore 

Americans who dren arc unin­

vice president

cannot afford it sured. 
today.  They  
will  move  
toward  thn day  when every  

American has access to afford­able, quality coverage." 
Core did not estimate the cost of his proposals. Spokesman Chris Lohane said that would come "in tlrn near future," but that lw did not anticipate a tax incrnase would be needed to 
r .... ----"""'"""' -"""'-""" """'-"'I 


$5.00 oBJ 
I 
any complete •eye .I 
't
exam with this 
I

coupon. 
Jlril I tswl 
valid only at 316·· t Indian Ridge Rd . : Mishawaka, IN I 
1 Block east of I 
Grape Rd.. : 
>,] I Not Vaid on prior ""1ices I Expires 12-23.99 I 
L-----------..1 
Complete set of eyeglasses 
from $38.00 Angela Tomlinson, ABOC­Vision Center Manager 

linance them. 
About $4.3 billion in federal taxes was allocated last year to the Childron's Health Insurance Program, the primary vehicle Gore would use. That program, designed to provide health insur­ance coverage to children in familins with incomes too high to qualify for Mndicaid, is primarily block grants to states. Most states establish a sliding scale or subsidios based on family income. 
"We have to judge what a pro­gram can accomplish, not just whether it sounds good," Bradley said in a statement. One criteria his plan would meet, when he unveils il in the coming weeks, would be "stating honestly what the true cost of this program would be," Bradley said. 
According to Gore, 43 million 
· Americans 
lack health 
To cover 
them, Gore would expand the Children's Health Insurance Program, which helps states provide cover­age to children in working fami­lies. Currently, states can use the federal CllIP money to cover children in families that earn up to 200 percent of the poverty level. 

SAVE 
on Contact Lenses 
We carry all major brands. Guaranteed Lowest Prices. 
Disposable contact lenses 
from $15.96 per box! 
Acuvue 

$19.96 per Box! 




FREE PRESCRIPTION 
Up To $5.00-0ver $5.00 Pay The Difference 
(J


r.----------------------~-------~----~----------,
PRESCRIPTION

1 WAL*MART COUPON __________19 
Pay to The 
Order Of Wal-Mart Pharmacy 
Get Your  (Good At  ________Location)  
Prescription FREE Up To $5.00,  
If Over $5 Pay The Difference.  
Limit 1 Coupon Per Family (Maximum 30 Day Supply)  Customer Signature  
Trans# ______  

NOT NEGOTIABLE FOR CASH Pharmacist Signature

L---------------------------------------•------~ 
It's Easy To Transfer Your Prescription To Awa1-Mart Pharmacy. Just Brin Us Your Prescrl tion Or Refill Bottle And Our Pharmacist Wdl Do The Rest. 

Reno calls for inquiry into Waco disaster 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 
Attorney General Janet Reno has offered Hepuhlican former Sen. John Danforth the job of heading an independent 
inquiry into th<l govern­ment's use of force al the fiery end of the Branch 

Davidian 
Reno 

standoff in Waco. Texas, government sources said Tuesday. 
The sources, who spoke only on condition of anonymity, told The Associated Press that the Justice Department was in final negotiations over the details of the independent inquiry and an announcement could come as early as Wednosday. 
Congressional officials who spoke with the Justice Department Tuesday said they understood Danforth was will­ing to take the job. According to government lawyers and congressional officials, the Justice Department was con­sidering appointing a second person to assist Danforth in the investigation and help to manage the day-to-day opera­tions. 
Freeh to explain how evi­dence. including a videotap,i. about the siege was withheld from the public for years. 
The GOP wants to know whetlrnr the FBI li<id about using incendiary tnar gas can· isters during the final raid on the compound. Morn than 80 sect members di!'d, some of them children. a lirn that llrn govnrnment contnnds was set by sect members. 
No evidence lrns been uncovered by any of tlrn com­mittees probing th!\ raid that the government was re1sponsi­bl c for starting the fire, according to several aides familiar with the investiga­tions. 
Several GOP-led committees in Congress have begun rein­vestigating the Waco matter. 
At issue are recent revela­tions by tho FBI that it firnd several flammable tear gas canis'ters at a storm slrnltcr hours before the main Branch Davidian building went up in flames. The FBI and t.he Justice Department had previ­ously denied use of any incen­diary devices, and investiga­tions will focus on whether this misinformation was the result of a bureaucratic slip­up or a cover-up. 
The .Justice Department insists there is no change in conclusions that it was David Koresh and his followers who started the fatal fire. The 
department 

Danforth, also strnsses
"fie calls them like he 

63, would that military bring solid sees them." spncial opera-Republican tions officers credentials were on the
Thomas Eagleton 

as well as scone only as
Missouri Democrat 

a back­ground in I a w enforce-m e n t . Before entering the Senate, he served as attorney general in Missouri for eight years. He retired from the Senate in 
1995. 
A phone call to Danforth's office seeking comment was not immediately returned. 
He is an Episcopal priest, and both admirers and detractors have noted his emphasis on morals as well as his stubborn independence. 
Final touches were being put on the scope and naturn of the investigation, said the sources, who include Republicans qn Capitol Hill who had discussions Tuesday with .Justice Department offi­cials. 
H.eno's decision comes as congressional Hepublicans have increased pressure on her and on FBI Director Louis observers and 
advisers, and 
not in an ille­
gal capacity 
as partici­pants in the operation. 
Republicans have used the revelations to attack the credi­bility of Heno and the Justice Department. The White I louse has stood behind Beno, but President Clinton has declined to give a similar vote of confi­dence to Freeh. 
Democrats on Capitol Hill have asked the GOP to Int the independent invo~tigation sought by Heno occur heforn congressional hnarings 
Those who know Danl'orth say he would bring instant credibility to the investigation. 
"lie calls them like he sees them," former Sen. Thomas Eagleton, a Missouri Democrat who snrved 10 years with Danforth, has said. "Memlrnrs of tlrn Senatn or llouse will have full faith in his finding." 


~e,,itre only;,,a 15 minute walktrom Campus at: 2046 South Bend Avenue 277-7678 
page 8 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, September 8, 1999 
Whitman: Senate seat would cheat my voters 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
New Jersey's moderate Republican Gov. Christie Whitman walked away Tuesday from a promising campaign for the Senate, sur• prising officials in her party and cheering Democrats eager to cut into the GOP majority in 2000. 
"I am convinced that a statewide campaign would be a distraction from finishing the work New Jersey voters have asked me to complete," the two-term governor said in a statement. Until her announce­ment, she had bei>n considered a strong contender to succeed retiring Democrat Frank Lautenfwrg and become the first New Jersey Republican elected to the Senate since 1972. 
Possible Democratic candi­dates for the seat include .Jon Corzine, wealthy former chair­man of Goldman Sachs and a target of a courtship by Democratic campaign officials in Washington; former Gov. James Florio; and Tommy Byrne, former state party chairman. 
Among Republicans, Rep. Bob Franks, State Sen. Bill Gormley and Essex County Executive James Treffinger expressed interest, and the names of Rep. Frank LoBiondo and Jersey City Mayor Bret Schundler also surfaced. 
The only declared GOP candi­date is college professor Murray Sabrin, who ran against Whitman in the 1997 

gubernatorial election as can­didate of the Libertarian party. 
Republicans command a 54­45 majority in the· current Senate,. with one independent who normally votes with the GOP. which means Democrats must gain six seats in next year's elections to gain power. Republicans must defend 19 of the 33 scats on the ballot, many held by freshmen who could face difficult re-election campaigns. 
"/ am convinced that a statewide campaign would be a distraction from .finishing the work New Jersey voters have asked me to complete." 

Christie Whitman Republican New Jersey governor 
Democrats had been stung in recent months by unexpected retirenrnnts of Lautenberg and two other veterans, Daniel Patrick Movnihan in New York and Richard Bryan in Nevada. 
Their decisions suddenly gave Hepublicans strong oppor­tunities to take awav seats held by Democrats rather than merely try to fend off Democratic gains. 
With elections 14 months away, Democrats still are awaiting word from high-pro­file potential candidates in at least two states. 
In Delaware, Democratic offi• cials are increasingly optimistic outgoing Gov. Tom Carper will decide to challenge S(rn. William Roth. Roth is chairman of the Senate 1-'inance Committee, but he is 78 years old and off to a slow start in raising campaign money. 
Carper's office said Tuesday the governor hopes to make an announcement about his future in a couple of weeks. 
In Vermont, Democrats hope an independent, Rep. Bernie Sanders, will run against Sen. James Jeffords. Sanders earlier pledged to decide by summer, but that self-imposed timetable has slipped. 
In public comments and pri­vatri conversations Tuesday, Whitman repeated that her decision was based strictly on a desire to focus on her guberna­torial duties. 
Her spokesman, Peter McDonough, said lhat since forming an exploratory com· mittee several months ago, the governor has raised $2 .23 mil­lion for the race. 
"It wasn't a matter of health, heart, politics or finances. It was simply a matter of trying to balance the needs of being a governor with the needs of running the kind of campaign that the governor would like to run," he said. 
Whitman's decision leaves the 53-year-old governor with­out an obvious next political step after she leaves office in January 2002. 
A moderate in a party that has become increasingly con­servative on social matters, she rode into office as a tax-cutter but also outlined a strong posi­tion in favor of abortion rights. 
None of that stopped the party from trying to elevate her stature nationally. Former Bouse Speaker Newt Gingrich, leader of a conservative major• ity, personally tapped Whitman to deliver the nationally tele­vised GOP response to President Clinton's State of the Union address in 1995. 
The governor's decision took officials in Washington by sur­prise. 
She telephoned Sen. Mitch McConnell, chairman of the Republican Senatorial Campaign Committee, hours after word of her decision had leaked. McConnell had eagerly recruited her to run for the seat in the days after Lautenberg's retirement announcement. 
Diel you know? 

There is a group on campus to help students facing disciplinary hearings before the Office of Residence Life. Peer advocates are specially trained to guide students through the disciplinary process. They comprise a division of Judicial Council, a Student Government organization, and are not part of Residence Life. 
Judicial Council is recruiting sophomores, juniors and seniors for a limited number of openings in the Peer Advocacy division. Applications are now available in the Student Government office on the second floor of LaFortune, and are due by Wednesday, September 15. 
Questions? Call Kelly Folks at 1-4556 Wednesday, September 8, \ 999 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 

You chose the right school. Now choose the right tools. Save hundreds on extras when you buyaMacintosh: Purchasea Purchasean ChOOiing anApple• Computerfor school PowerBook G3 iMacand has always been asmart move. And now arxl recei\e: it'sanobrainer. Because now when you-~~G3­receive: purchasean iMac"', aPower Madntash•G3,17-Jnch Apple$150 Off 128MB of RAM $SO off Studo Display $50 Off t~USB orPowerllook.-G3, you can buyaton of Iomega USS$SO off Zip Dril'8 $50 Off ~~~:;.,:":aPG usefulaccessories andget up to $150 offeach. HP DRsl<.Je! 810C Connecti• Virtual PC$75off far MacIntosh Printer $50off with Windows 9fl JI loimga USB Epoon Stylus Color$50off 2ip Driv<l $SO off 740I USS PJinter •. Think different~ Connectix \f,tual PC$50off wit11 Windows 98 Epson Stylus Color$SO off 740i USB Printer AskyourApple campus resellerfor details orvisit www.apple.com/education/store. l'HONI,Offer v:tlid through Cx:tober U.. 2!Nll-70? opWfn 1 ~ ~ ~"'_2,.,......-._,3,..._,,..,._ ~41U~QII~  

Puerto Ricans accept Clinton's clemency deal 
activist pledging not to engage. in violence if released. The activists had until Friday to take or leave thP deal. 
Two imprisoned activists are expected to reject the clemency offer. the White House said. Two others, who are not in jail,· havP another week to respond. If they agree to the White llousB terms, their fines will be reduced. 
"The president expects all thoso who accept the condition-

A>sociau:d Press 
WASI-IINGTON 

Twnlve of 14 jailod l'unrlo Bica11 11ationalists agnrnd T1wsday to a politically sensi­tivn clr.nwncy dr.al offorcd by l'rnsid1>11t Clinton but oppoS(\d hy his wifo. prospPctivn Sonate rnndidat«' llillary Hodham Clinton. 
Tlw 1'11nrto Hicans. jailnd on w11apo11s and sedition convic­lions. are nwmbers of pro­indr.pendenc11 guorrilla groups that carried out a wave of bombings in Lim Unitl'd StatP.s 
in tho 1970s 
and 1980s. 
Thr. nr.arly month-old offor is con­di Lione d on statements from each inclepen­

d (1 n c fl Clinton 

al clemency grant to abide fully by its terms, including refrain­ing from the use or advocacy of the use .of violence for any pur­pose and obeying all the statu­tory conditions of parole," White House press secretary Joe Lockhart said in a state­ment. 
At a news conferencn in San Juan, activist leader Luis Nieves Falcon confirmed that 11 members of the Armed forces of National Liberation 
and one leader of the Macheteros separatist group had accepted the three-week-old offer even though it required them to formally rnnounco vio­lence and agree not to associate with felons. 
But two of those who accepted Clinton's clemency offer defended their past actions Tuesday in prison interviews with KGO-TV in San Francisco. 
"If your country is a colony, be it a declared war or undeclared war, you have the right to pick up arms and that is what I chose to do," said Dylcia Pagan, serving a 55-year sentence in the federal prison at Dublin, Calif. 
Ida Luz "Lucy" Rodriguez, who is serving a 75-year sentiince at the same prison about 30 miles east of San Francisco, said members of the Armed Forces of National Liberation considered themselves patriots, not terror­ists. 
"I guess if GAorge Washington would havn lost to the English, history would havB treated him as a terrorist,"she said. 
Zenaida Lopez, whose broth­er. Oscar Lopez Hivera, is serv­ing a 55-year sentence and is one of the two prisoners who didn't sign the agreement. said: "Ile feels that renouncing vio­lence, accepting what they are 
offering, is likn a prison with­ 
out a prison."  
The  Armed  Forces  of'  

National Liberation, known by its Spanish initials FAI:N, car­ried out more than 100 bomb­in gs in tho United Stat,~s between 1974 and 1983. The bombings killed six .and wounded dozens. The impris­oned nationalists were not con­victed in any of the bombings but were found guilty of sndi­tious conspiracy and possAs­sion of weapons and explo­sives. 
The clemency offer has divid­ed the first family and brought criticism from both Hepublicans and Democrats. 

REALITY: 
YOU'D LIKE TO CONNECT WITH A GREAT ORGANIZATION. 
VIRTUAL REALITY: www.pwegIob a I.com/o c p 
fJRJcEWAJi:RIIOUsf[mPERS I 
Join us. Together we can change the world. sM 
c, /999 Priu;,w.uerhouseCOOfJffS tLP. /'nccw.1tf'rhouSL'Coopers retro ro the U.S. firm of Pr1cev.otcrhouseCoopers LLP ,md o,fwr members of rnt!" worldwhk Pricew<11erhou~ovpers orst1nlz.arion. We are proud ro bto an Affltm.1tive ,.t.crionl&Jual Of¥muniry Employer. 


page 10 The Observer . NEWS Wednesday, September 8, 1999 
Beatty 'careful' about presidency 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 
At Mann's Chinese Theatre, a Hollywood landmark where gene.rations of stars have left their hand prints in wet cement, Aziz Khezam stood on Warren Beatty's palm impres­sions. smoking a cigarette and considering the prospect of a Beatty White House. 
Vice President Al Gore, the leading Democratic presiden­tial contender. is tainted by the scandals that have plagued President Clinton, he said. Beatty, said Khezam, is "an intellectual who could be understood by the masses." 
'TH take my time to see what Beatty stands for," said the pastry shop owner. 
Beatty -movie actor, pro­ducer, director, writer -and now presidential candidate? 
In an interview last month with The Washington Post, Beatty acknowledged that he was thinking about a possible candidacy, but said it was too early to say more. 'Tm care­ful," he said. 
Interviews with members of his likely base -disaffected Democrats and other Jeft-of­center activists around the nation -suggest deep suspi­cion about his motives and cre­dentials. 
Karen Marchioro, a longtime Democratic activist in Seattle, believes her liberal politics are akin to Beatty's, but dismissed his potential White House bid. 
"I take my politics seriously, but I don't take this at all seri­ously, because he's never run for anything," she said. Honald Reagan was an actor who made it to the White House. she allowed. "But he was a governor first, and not a very good one, I might add." 

Yet tourists from across the country visiting the heart of Hollywood last week werr. intrigued. even though most of those interviewed had no idea about Beatty's views -except that he was a liberal. All, how­ever. had seen "Bulworth," Beatty's movie manifesto on campaign finance reform. 
"/ take my politics seriously but I don't take this at all seriously, because he's never run for anything ... 
Karen Marchioro Democratic activist 

"I don't know his credentials, but I'd certainly give him con­sideration once I was aware of what he stands for," said Pat Patterson, a legal assistant from Charleston, S.C. "Right now, I know nothing about him." 
Polls suggest that if Beatty ran for president as a Democrat he would draw sup­port, but he wouldn't dramati­cally alter the race. ln a mid­August ABC poll of 452 Democrats and Democratic­leaning voters, Gore was sup­ported by 61 percent, while 24 percent backPd former Sen. Bill Bradley and nine percent endorsed Heattv. 
Just one pe.rcent of likely Democratic voters in a recent California Field poll said Beatty was their first choice for their party's nominee. 
In an essay published last month in The New York Times, Beatty said he wanted to "help persuade the slightly more lib­eral one of the two accounting firms we call our major parties to return to the principles of the Democratic Party of my youth." 
Beatty said he was interested in providing universal health ca.re and lifting up the poor, protecting the environment and improving public schools. To do that, he wrote, "We must have complete public financing of all federal campaigns." 
He declined an interview request with The Associated Press. 
State Sen. Tom Hayden of Los Angeles, an anti-Vietnam War activist who disrupted the Democratic Party's 1968 con­vention and remains a dyed-in­the-wool liberal, said a Beatty candidacy would "spice up the debate." 
Hayden said his friend Beatty knows the difficulties he would encounter in running for the White House. "Trying to go from the world of entertain­ment to the world of politics is not like catching a first-class flight from L.A. to Washington," Hayden said. 
Outside this Mecca for the star-struck, there are signs of resentment against actors who seek high political office. 
VENEZUELA 
Assembly fires eight 
judges, will fire more 
Associated Press 
CARACAS 

Venezuela's powerful new Constitutional Assembly on Tuesday fired eight judges suspected of corruption and said it would likely fire 50 more. 
Manuel Quijada. head of the assembly's judicial reform commission, said the eight would be removed from their posts immediately, and read out the names of 50 other judges whose fates will be decided in the next few days. 
"Those arc the first eight but in the coming days we are going to make official the removal of the other 50, whose processes are very advanced," Quijada told reporters at the headquarters of the national judges council, which supervises the country's judges. 
The firing of the judges came amid an uproar over a decision by two judges to throw out charges against two dozen bankers accused in one of Latin America's biggest banking scandals. 
The judges on Friday dis­missed charges against execu­tives and midlevel managers at three major Venezuelan banks -Banco Latino, Banco Consolidado and Banco de Venezuela -as well as at the smaller Bancor. 
It wasn't immediately clear if the two were among the eight judges fired Tuesday. 
Among the 50 likely to face dismissal was Mildred Camero, head of the nation's anti-drug commission. She quickly showed up at the council to demand an explana­tion. After meeting with her, Quijada said he had made a mistake. 
Quijada said his commission still has to study 3,000 formal allegations of corruption against judges. Most of the allegations have been shelved for years by the judges coun­
cil. which has been widely accused of ignoring corruption in the judiciary. 
The dismissals were likely to renew controversy over the assembly. which was elected in July to write a new consti­tution and is controlled by supporters of President Hugo Chavez. 
The Supreme Court ruled in April that the assembly cannot intervene in the other branch­es of government. But the assembly has already virtually shut down Congress and two weeks ago declared a "judicial emergency," giving itself the right to fire judges and reform the judicial system. 
In August, the Supreme Court backed the assembly's "judicial emergency" declara­tion, though its president resigned in protest. 

*Books delivered in no more than three business days or your shipping is refunded. Some. restrictions apply. See www.varsitybooks.com for details. 
DO YOU LIKE OUR PLANET'f RECYCLE THE OBSERVER. 
Wednesday, September 8, 1999 The Obserz;er . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 11 
ISRAEL 
Pollard looks to Barak for clemency answers 
September 8, 1999 
Washington Hall 
8:00 pm 
A part of their 40th Anniversary Tour for this traveling group of improv comics from Chicago 


Associated Press 
.JEHUS/\1.EM 

Convicted spy .Jonathan l'olla.rd app1rnlod to Israel's Suprenrn Court on Tuesday, dnrnanding that l'rimP Minister Ehud Barak nxplain why he isn't l'ighting for his reloase from a U.S. prison. 
Pollard. a former civilian analyst for thn U.S. Navy, was convicted of' nspionagn in 1985 and has servc)d 14 ynars of' a lifo s11ntcncn. 
Israel has acknowl­
tended in his petition that since taking office, Barak has cut off con­tact with him and has not worked to release him. 
Pollard's wife, Esther, repeated allegations that President Clinton reneged on a deal to release Pollard last year as part of an Israeli­Palestinian peace accord bro­kered in Wye River, Md. 
Clinton has said he will review a clemency request. Pollard's wife said Tuesday that Barak's office has 
rPpcatedly ignornd rnqunsts to mnnt with lrnr and has slopp11d updating hnr hus­band on nfl'orts to Sf'cttrl' his rnlnasc. 
The potilion demands that Bara k r111 "asc doc !I Ill I' 11 ts showing that tlw t.Pns of thousands of top-s1•HTPL d11n1­mnnts Pollard gnvP lsnwl did not harm U.S. national sncu­rity. It also l'P(Jttnsts 11nandal and mnclical assisl<t11c1~ for Pollard whilP hn is in his North Carolina jail. 
B a r a k 
s p o k ,. s ­
"11ze prime minister's woman

edged that 
l\forav l'arsi­

Pollard was stance is to do everything 
Tsad o k saidits agmit and possible so that Pollard that public
has repnat­
will go free and return to discussion ol'

c1dly asked 
tlrn CILSI'

the United Israel." 
would only

States to 
hurt rnlc11ts11

release him. 
Merav Parsi-Tsadok nfforls.

B u t 
" T h n
Barak spokeswoman

Pollard con­prime minis-
ter's stance is to do nverything possibl11 so that Pollard will go free and return to Israel," she said. 
Barak brought up the issue in his meeting with Clinton in July but said it should not Im linked to· tlrn peace process. Pollard's wif'fl, who came from Toronto to file the peti­tion. said Barak was behav­ing in "a shabby fashion toward a man whom the gov­ernment has rncognized as its agent." 


WENDY SHALIT received her B.A. in philosophy from Williams College in 1997. A contributing editor of the Manhattan lnstitute's City Journal, she has written for The Wall Street Journal, Commentary, and other publications. She lives in New York City. ·roNIGHT, 7 PM HESIU'RGH AUDITORIUM  

UC WWW ,.JE4UP 
VIEWPOINT 

page 12 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, NMr< Dame, IN 46556 OH South Dining H"II, None Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Michelle Krupa 

MANAGING EonoR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
M. Shannon Ryan  David llogcro  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  
I.aura Pcte\le  

NEWS EDITOR: T,m Logan YIEwP0INT EOITOR: Colleen Gaughen SPORTS ErnroR: Brian Kessler SCENE EDITOR: Michael Vanegas SAINT MAnv•s EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie PHOTO .Eo11·01t: Kevin Dalurn 
ADVERTISING MANAGER; Bryan Lutz 
AD DVilGN MANAGER: Bret Huelar SYSTEMS ADMINISTRA.fOR: Michael Revers WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kushro 
CONTROLLER: Timochy Lane GRAPHICS EPITOR: Joe Mueller 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0............•.631-7471 .FAX...........................................................6.~l-692.7 Al>VERTlSING.....................................Ge\ l-G'J00/8840 
observer@darwin.cc. nd.edu EDITOR IN Cmn........................................ 631-4542 MANAGING EmrnRIAssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE.......................................631-5313 NEWs..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 

VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 
observer.spom.1@nd.edu SCENE•..•......•.........................•..........•........•631-4540 observ·er.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S.............................................631-4324 observer .smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO.......................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit mu Web sire at http://obstrver.ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, fearures and opinion columns. as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news &om the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for

weather for up-to-the 
minute forecascs 
weekly scudem reviews 

advertise for policies 
online features for spe­

and rares of prim ads 
cial campus coverage 

archives to search for 
about The Observer 

articles published alter 
ro meer rhe edirors and 

August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by che students ofrhe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. Acting as pub­lisher ofThe Observer, the administration of the Universicy ofNotre Dame du Lac prohibits che adver­tisement ofalcohol and The Observer's acceptance of advertisements from specified types ofgroups. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofrhe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor. Assiscant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through lercers is encouraged. 
Qumions regarding Observerpo/icier should be direct­ed 10 Editor in ChiefMichelle Krup,,. 
DILBERT 
IF 'fOUR NUMBERS 
ARE CORRECT, MY STRF\TEGIC PLF\N 
IS IR.RATIONAL. 
E 
" 
ci
.. u 
@) 
,,I 
i 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

The University has set forth a new advertising policy with regard to groups holding f)r espousing positions contrary to the official teaching of the Church. The initial focus of the policy is the Todd David group Gay and 
Whitmore
Lesbian Alumni of 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's (GALA­

The
ND/SMC). The poli­

Common Good
cy prohibits the placement of ads by any outside groups that, "directly or indirectly. espouse positions contrary to the teachings of the Catholic Church." GALA was identi­fied because its positions were consid­ered contrary to Church teaching and its ads were seen as benefitting the group GLND/SMC (Gays and Lesbians of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College), a student group not recognized by the University. The policy is also that unrecognized student groups cannot advertise. The judgement was that if GALA advertised it would in effect be GLND/SMC advertising. 
The Observer has already published a host of responses debating the policy, and the various positions have been set out. What have not been discussed yet are the implications of other parts of the letter, which also states that any pro-choice organization or an abortion clinic would not be allowed to adver­tise. The Observer quotes Chandra Johnson, assistant to the President and author of Hie letter as elaborating, "Our hope is that as the policy stands for this issue there would be a pervasiveness that would apply to similar groups." The questions that arise are those of just how broad is "pervasively" and what counts as a "similar" group. Going by the text of the letter, the key concern is fittingness with Catholic teaching. The Observer quotes Ms. Johnson as saying that GALA was highlighted because, "we are a Catholic institution, we uphold the teachings of the Catholic Church." 
Such a policy would seem to raise questions about a November 1998 ad for the "systems innovator" SCIENT. It reads, "At SCIENT, we have the pas­sion, the processes and the know-how to build eBusiness innovations that help companies create wealth and crush their competitors!" Now, it is important to point out that Catholic social teach­ing does in fact support the creation of wealth that occurs in the market as a genuine good. The part of the ad that is more disconcerting is that which emphasizes, with enthusiasm, crushing one's competitors. According to church teaching, the market, and the right to private property that makes the market possible, are to serve the common good and individual interest only insofar as it is consonant with the common good. It may be for the common good that poor­ly-run businesses fail, but the rallying cry to crush one's competitors goes beyond simply allowing other business­es to succeed or fail of their own accord. The ad ends with details for on­campus recruiting. 
COGNITIVE.  YOU  SURE  
DISSONANCE  AR.E  BAD  
TAKE5  OVER  WITH  
NUMBER$.  

If we note the letter's focus on pro­hibiting ads from groups that hold posi­tions contrary to Church teaching "directly or indirectly" then the applica­tion of the policy to campus recruiters extends much more widely. Raytheon, Amoco, General Electric, Salomon Smith Barney, Proctor and Gamble, and other firms and corporations have all advertised in The Observer. None have made as bold a statement about their intents and practices as SCIENT. However, if the question regards "indi­rect'' support for views and practices contrary to Catholic teachings, then the issue of whether they should be able to advertise remains a live one. In the case of GALA, one reading of "indirect" is that the presence of the group, regardless of what it directly espouses, allows the presence of views and prac­tices that are contrary to Church teach­ing. In the case of both GALA and, say. Proctor and Gamble, one would have to investigate the actual practices of the organization and the views and prac­tices of the persons within to make a definitive judgment, but there seems to be no prima facie reason to treat the cases differently. On the contrary, given the range of Church teaching, the pre-
SCOTT ADAMS 
WHAT WAS 
THAT 
NOISE~ 
Wednesday, September 8, 1999 
sumption would be on the side of treat­
ing them similarly. 
The matter becomes more pressing if we look at the language of then Vice President for Student Affairs Patricia O'Hara in her March 7, 1995 remarks to the Faculty Senate. The objection to GLND/SMC is extended to its use of "value neutral language." Here, the group is presumed to be contrary to Church teaching unless it states clearlyits support for that teaching. My inter­pretation is that the University's experi­ence with GLND/SMC was such that it felt it had probable basis on which to establish such a presumption. The point here is that it is possible to do a history of corporate business practices in the United States in light of Catholic social teaching and arrive at a similar pre­sumption. Should businesses advertis­ing in the Observer be required to make an explicit statement of their compli­ance with Catholic teaching? 
There is one important area where Notre Dame is moving in just such a direction. Last spring, President Malloy appointed a "Task Force on Anti­Sweatshop Initiatives." Our task is to make policy recommendations to the President regarding a code of conduct for businesses that contract with the University to make Notre Dame apparel and paraphernalia. It is a serious investment of the University's time, money, and energy. Failure to comply 
· with the new code on the part of the businesses will be grounds for termina­tion of contract. The question which the new policy on advertising raises is whether there are not also other fronts ·on which to address the University's identity in relation to the Church's social teaching, which, as John Paul II has commented, is "an essential part of the Christian message." 
Todd David Whitmore is an associate professor of theology. His column usual­ly appears every other Friday. 
The views expressed in this column are not neccessarily those of the Observer 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"A free press can be good or bad, but most cetainly, without freedom it will never be anything but bad. " 
Albert Camus Author 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 
Wedm:s<lay, September 8, l999 BSERVER page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Notre Dame Spirit Felt Worldwide 
I\ wnek of fruitless searching, which includt1d rtllls to ltHl Anwrican mnbassy, US Naval bctse. und /\BC olliccs in London, left Notre Dame London stu­clmits uriahln lo watch lhe Notre Dame/Michigan ganw. !\Jm•ertlwlnss, a f'pw in<lustrious students s11t ,Lside dubbing for a night ,unl huddled around two small spPakors in a comput(•r lab. 
Tlw pnwious Saturday, ahmit sixlv sL11clents, family mninhcrs. and local Notrn Damn f'a11s 1:rowd(•d into tlw stuffy basc­
monl. of tlw dassroom building to watrh a choppy hroadcast of' lhn Ka11sus 
ganw via 
tlw l11t1,riwl. WP jump1•d and chn11rnd, and,iokl'd about slu­dm1ts who strnggled in thn lwat lwcausll of "prn­game fostiviti1is." 
Un this Saturday night, no picture of thP ganw was available, hut snven stuclnnts listened to tlw WVFI internet broad­cast, chocked ESPN.com l'or upc.latos. and chatted with Domers studying in Australia who were listening as well. At half lime. we had to leave the building .because it was closing but found an Internet cafe near our flats. Only thrne of us remained. 
At the start of the fourth quarter, three men 
• 
{clearly Americans) had ventured into the cafe from 
a pub across the street Talking to the owner. one of 
them mentioned their goal of trying to find out 
information about American football. Our ears 
pnrked up and in unison asker!, "What game?!" "The Notre Dame/Michigan game," replied the shortest one. In a whirlwind of excitement, we explained that we were lis­tening to it at that moment. Suddenly, the short man transformed into a "12­year-old Notre Dame fan" as his far,e lit up. He grabbed a chair and the four of us Logether followed thP ups and downs of the fourth quarter. His son had grad­uated from ND the previ­ous year and as a pilot for United J\irlines, he had landed in London that night. The defeat sapped our life­blood as does every loss by our men in blue and gold, but that night provided a refreshing feeling ­knowing that the spirit, tra­dition, and family of Notre Dame can be found throughout the world! 
Drew Olejnik Junior, Notre Dame London Program September 5, 1999 
Catholic doctrine allows for ad ban 
I feel embarrassed for the Univorsity of Notre Dame, its faculty, and students after the petty complaints introduced by some confused individuals. I had lo laugh at the headline of the Letter to the Editor in the August 30 issue of the Observer which blazed, "Ban on gay ads is outrageous and immoral." 
Hello! The last I had heard, gay acts are still immoral in the eyes of God. I think th(1 author sc~ems to be con­fused with what is simply considered politically cor­rectin the eyes of our society. 
I am proud of Notre Dame for sticking to its Catholic convictions. I came to Notre Damn in part bncause it renected my religious belief's as do Urn majority of thn faculty and student body. I wanted to be around pooplo who share the same moral standards as I hold. Furthermore, if I had desired to listen to squabs bash­ing Catholisism's moral standards and adlrnaring to the politically correct view on this matter thnn, I would have applied to UCLA or some other liberal school. 
The writm also makes a dig against tho staff of the University by calling them "sheepish" f'or not standing up for gay rights issues. The author perhaps didn't. consider that the faculty doesn't speak out for this issue because they cannot promoto such immoral aets. 
The writer also states that the University is denying free speech and First Amendment rights. Such is not the case however. They are simply banning the promo­tion of immoral issues. 
Notre Dame is a private Catholic univllrsity and is therefore allowed, to some degree, to create standards in accordance with the Catholic Uiaching. If students have problems with these standards, they should !'eel free to transfer to a Catholic university of lesser moral gumption; Georgetown perhaps. 
The author of the letter makes a largely unsubstanti­ated moral argument which does not allow for the fact that, Notre Dame is a Catholic institution with Catholic ideals to uphold. If the writer is still confussed, maybe they should look at re-enrolling in Theology 101. 
Nathan Shay 
Freshman, Stanford Hall September I, 1999 

IRA is not the only evil in Northern Ireland 
I lrnsitate lo write this letter in response to the AP article you printed on the recent unraveling of the peace process in Northern Ireland since I know that my disagnwment is with the Associated Press and not really with The Observer. But you did choose to print it, and so I write in an attempt to show that what passes as nwrely factual reporting is severely slantucl. Tlrn·arorementioned article gives the appearance that the brnakdown in the negotiations is the solo rnsponsibility of the Irish Hepublican move­nwnt (Sinn Fein and tlrn IHI\). But certainlv this is a radical misconstrual of nvents. first, the Good Friday agrn1mrnnt never set requirements for the lllA to start clncommissioning before the formation of a gov­nrnnrnnt with Sinn Fnin. Indeed, this is why hardlin­tirs in tlw UUP like Jeffery Donaldson objected to the agreement in the first place. And so tho "lRA's long­standing refusal to start disarming" is not (as the articlo implies) the reasons for the deadlock. Instead, tho rnai;on for Urn breakdown is that the hardliners wilhin Urn Ulster Unionist Party h,tv(~ gotten their way after all. Tlwsc radical chmwnls wanted decom­missioning lo hn a prncondition of Lhe agrnomont all along, and wlrnn Trimble signed tho accord without lhis prncondilinn he was diastiseu by the rost of tho party. But apparently he did the right thing for the lmrdiirrnrs, for now, even though it is not to be found in Lim <;oo<I Friday Pcacfl agreement. tho tnfHlia and tlrn puhlic seem to think Hmt dncommissioning is a precondition f'or tlrn formation of a government. Ergo, it's all the IIU's fault. In reality Sinn Fein crnd Ltw !Ht\ arn al.iiding by the terms of the agreement and Trimhln and thn UUP am not. MoreoV(\I', not only is tho lfopublican movomcmt not intransigent as is suggostcd, but Sinn Fein has, by for, made more c1mcm;sions than any oLher party. lnclcmt, they have given up a cnntral doctrirrn or Irish Hopublicanism: a rojnclion of tlw principlt! of cons1int (i.!l., the princi­plo that the pnopln of Northern Ireland slwuld be ablo to determine whcthr.r they will remain in the UK hy a majority vote). This principle is clearly embod­ied in the Good Firday agreement and so by signing Sinn Fein has accepted it and compromised their tra­dition. On the signing of the agreement Trimble could have claimed a similar concession in the elimi­nation of the precondition for decommissioning. But now that this aspect is effectively forgotten by all, this concession is de facto null and void. Second, the article points to the instances of threats and violence perpetrated by the !Rt\ in recent weeks and yet fails to mention similar threats and violence made by loy­alist paramilitary organizations. Indeed, since the respective ceasefires, Loyalist violence has killed many more than Republican violence. Moreover, there are continued allegations that the RUC collud­ed in the deaths of Human Rights lawyers Pat Ficunane and Rosemary Nelson -indeed, Nelson had just filed a complaint that she had received death threats from RUC members just before she died in the loyalist car bomb attack. These allega­tions are all but ignored by the British Government (the RUC is investigating itselfin the Nelson matter!) and the international media while investigations into the IHt\ intimdation of sev1wal drug dealers make every headline .and occupy the attention of every gov­ernment agency. Finally, the article emphasizes and repeats Trimble's view that the IRA is turning Northern Ireland into a l\1afia state. Even if this were true it would be oflittle consequence in a state where the police can issue death threats to Lawyers who defend unpopular defendants, colluding with sectarian assassins. 
R. Dennis Potter 
Professor, Dcparimem of Philosophy September I, 1999 


p 


E 
O
THE 

page 14 BSERVER Wednesday, September 8, 1999 

ND's first harpist 
. Senior Alexis Belis proves that playing the harp and studying ancient civilization are bringers of ­happiness 
By MIKE VANEGAS Scene Editor 
For the past three years, a unique musician has echol~d the wi1lowy sounds of the harp throughout Saint Mary's and Notre Dame, successfully transform­ing an artistic hobby into a respectable philosophy of happiness. Alexis Belis, a senior in Lyons Hall, is a pleasant young woman who simply glows with a contentment concerning the life she chose, as a student, as a harpist and as a scholar. With a busy 21 years already behind her, Belis is now planning for a future just as busy and just as satisfying. 
Foundation of music and chocolate 
Though Belis was born in Morgantown, W. Va.. she identifies Hershey, Pa., tJ1e town with the obsession for chocolate, as her hometown. As the oldest of four chil­dren, she grew up watching cartoons just like other kids, her favorites being "Space Ghost" and "Transformers." She also played tennis, took up skiing at the age of three and, in the great tradition of little girls. took piano lessons. 
By learning the piano, Belis continued a family musi­cal tradition that would also keep her three siblings musically involved. ­
With a piano-playing father and a piano-and banjo­playing mother, music clearly 
''People always ask [why I

was an essen­tial part of chose to play the harp] and l Belis' ' early 
can't come with a very good 

years. 
answer ... l came up with the 

Eventually, though, Belis biggest, most impractical 
came to desire instrumentfor my parents.".
something new 
and refreshing, 
Alexis Belis

which is whore 
her current Senior 
musical-focus 
began. 
"People always ask [why I chose to play the harp] and l can't come up with a very good ans\Yer," Belis said. ''I've always been uncomfortable playing the piano. I never liked it very much, so I came up with the biggest, most impractical instrument for my parents." 
This, of course, was the harp. 
But Belis found some difficulty in jumpstarting her harp-playing career. Beginning at the late age ·or 16, she first had to convince her parents that she was seri­ous about playing the barp. Belis said that it took about a year until .she actually began taking lessons serious­ly. 
This was in part because there weren't great oppor­tunities for either harp lessons or harp rentals in H~rshey. Eventually, her parents rented a harp from Chicago and drove one hour to Harrisburg, Pa., to take Belis to a suitable harp instructor. 
Soon enough, though, Belis found herself ready for ing on her recital music for about a vcar and Belis tion. college, when a lucky Catholic University in the looks forward to the important performance'. Her summers in Maine also allowed her to take Midwest fell into her lap. · "lt will be wonderful," she said, without a degree of lessons from Alice Chalifoux, the head of the 
arrogance. Salzedo school. 
The lack of arrogance in her attitude is what is most "She's like a female Yoda," Belis said, comparing
Domer Belis 
striking about Belis' personality. Considering that she is the woman she considers her role model to the Jedi"I can't give the typical response because I don't have currently being presented with great career opportuni­Master. "She's smaller than I am and she has thisany relatives here and I didn't choose it for the foot­ties, there should almost be a built-in bungalow in her little puff of white hair on her head. Her mind is soball." said Belis about her decision to attend Notre psyche for arrogance, but with Belis, humilitv is a ... she catches every wrong note and every littleDame. "lt turned out the other schools I was looking at noticeable virtue. · thing wrong in your hand position. During a lesson,didn't have a harp teacher. Then I talked to Mrs. 
it's so hard to get through a whole piece of music[Suzann) Davids, [who] studied with Salzedo ... When I because she picks everything apart. But it's reallyheard that, I was very excited." The advantage of opportunity good because it makes everything better.
Belis's life reveals qualities of the typical Domer. During the summer following her freshman year, "I hope that l live to be 91 and beyond and have aThough she admittedly did not come to Notre Dame for Belis attended tho Salzedo Harp School in Maine, mind as good as she has,"the football, she still loves attending the games. And which, along with the method she studies, was estab­
The pride Belis exudes concerning the Salzedo

when springtime comes, she is the first to find a spot lished by Carlo Salzedo. Considered a prestigious cen: school and Chalifoux covers up the intense workoutunder a tree to read or relax. Her favorite spot, in fact, ter for learning among harpists, it is remarkable, she puts herself through each summer.
is a tree just outside O'Shaughnessy Hall that comes to though not surprising, that Helis would attend. That's "We usually practice five or six hours a day. It'sfull bloom in spring. not to say the first summer, and each subsequent sum­very intense. It's all harp," Belis said. She also men­In the meantime, Belis juggles a rigurous schedule of mer, was not challenging. 
tioned that some days, one could practice up to
art history and music classes, her music ensembles and "I was practicing the same amount in one day that I f':ight hours, giving the school an almost occupation­her individual practice. had been practicing a week at school. So, you progress like feel. But Belis insists that practicing the harpAs a member of a harp ensemble and the Notre a lot faster," Belis said. "Then you get these big blisters does not seem like a job.
Dame Symphony Orchestra, Belis has her work cut out and callouses on your fingers ... They really hurt." 
She also seems to insist that the invitation she hasfor her. As with all music performance majors, Belis Currei;itly, Belis has a medium-sized, white blister on received to study with art history Professor Robinmust perform a recital next semester. She's been work-right index finger, adding to the charm of her dedica-

MARY CALASH!The Observer 

Senior art history and harp performance major Alexis Belis strums her harp in the Lyons Hall chapel. B~lis plans to spend the summer following graduation in Greece, studying with art history Professor Robin Rhodes. 
_______'91, .,. 
O
THE 
ednesday, Seprember 8, l 999 BSERVER page 15 

ves life to fullest 
llhodcs in (;rnnce is no big dnal. But considering the amount uf' linw that went into choosing lrnr post­l{rnduato plaus. it C1)rtainly seems a big deal. 
"I had a rnally hard tim<, deciding if I wnnt,Hi to do gradualP work in art history or music," shP said. 'Tel likt> to do clilsSkill art and architncltir,,. r.v1mtu­ally. likl' Greek architt•<·.ttm• and art. 1 Butl I want to co11timw playing. hopdully with an orchnstra whor­1•v1•r I .-nd up." 
Harpin' out in Maine 
Following her firnt sumnHff in :"vfaine, Bclis was ahlo to c11nvi1H'.C' her parnnts to buy a harp. Considl'ring that concnrt grand harps cost about $2;i,000. Belis surnly pres1mted a strong argument. l'Olll!llitting h,~rsnlf to 01!' harp as some people might t·ommit to Lhn lovo of their life. But Belis always nicognized th1• irnµorlance of u11dnrslanding 
pan•nls. "! was very lucky to havn my parents take it seri­ously that I wantNI to plu.y," Bnlis said. 
Slw suon rll•rlartHI lwr major in harp purf'ormancri, lrncoming tlw first Notre DamP student to huvu such a major. 
Onn• commitl!!d, though. lfolis found it difficult at limt•s to g1\t tlrn most out of' the harpist's lifo. Whim pranicing 01H• of lwr rnrilal pincns this past sum­111 t•r. slit~ f'Pad11•d II point of aggravation that rPquirPd solllt' action. 
"It got to tlw point wlHH'P l was playing it really, rPally slow. and I rnuldn't st!e twcr getting il up to lt•mpo," slw said. "I was nxtrnrnely f'rustratnd, so I l11rPw it away f11r about lhrt!I\ months. Then I got it 
"She's very earnest wil/1 lols ofinte.grily ... She's interested in a fol<~{ dijferent things·-· very well-rounded." 
Suzann Davids Harp Instructor 

back out and suddenly it went better. 
"Every timo I start a new piece of' music, I think I go through Chat I'rustralion, like. Tm never gonna be able to play that.'" 
Notre Damo and Saint Mary's adjunct faculty memlrnr Suzann Davids. Belis' harp instructor, understands the nl'fort Belis puts into her music. 
"She works very hard, and that's primarily what counts," she said. 
Belis has also l'ound that making a harp ensemble has been a difficult task throughout her stay here at Notn1 Darrn1. 
"We've been trying to do harp ensemble for the past couple of years." she said. "This is the first year we've finally been able to get it together." 
This wenkend, the harp ensemble will be perform­ing the prelude at the Vespers Mass Saturday at 5 
p.m .. and at the Sunday 10 a.m. Mass. Both perl'or­munccs will be at the Basilica of the Sacred I!cart. 
'Tm very excited that Wf1're playing in the Basilica," stw saicl. "l'vn been waiting a while for this.". 
Alexis the spy 

Despite the seeming monotony of the harpist's life, them is much more to Belis than meets the eye. 
"She's very earnest with lots of integrity," said Davids. "She's interested in a lot of different things ... very well-rounded." 
Especially when looking at her small frame and reticent body language, one would never guess that she has a black belt in tae kwon do, with some knowledge ol' Kung Fu. 
Though Bells ha-s never nr.eded the martial art for its measures or sfllf-defcnse, she still warns not to approach her suddenly from behind. 
Another hidden desire, matched well with her mastery of tirn kwon do, is her wish for a secret life. With "Get Smart" as her favorite television show, and her personal collection ol' James Bond films (her favorite is Sean Connerv). she notes that "I always want(1d lo be a spy.:, Indeed, her cover 
would be amazingly well-guarded: Tlrn quietly deceptive harpist with killer instinct. 
Belis also calls herself a skier. a tennis-playnr. an ultimate-frisbec newbie, a Mel Brooks fanatic, a dess1~rl connoisseur, a dining hall grapefruit juico drinker, lhe older sister to two Backstrnet Boys fans and, of course. a chocolate-lover. 
A motivating perspective 
Ultimately, the Alexis Belis story hinges on an extraordinary perspective concerning personal choices and decisions that will impact one's entire life. 
Belis has not always studied tlrn fields which interested her the most, art history and music. She came to Notre Dame as a physics major, and then continued as a science pre-professional major. Soon, she realized that her education had to be something more personal. 
"I !have] found two things that I really enjoy," she said. "Whereas I took all these science classes my freshman yr,ar and hall' of my sophomore year, I never enjoyed a single one of them. Thnre was no motivation to study or to do work. 
"I remember going to tell my organic chemistry professor [that! l was on chapter six and wn were on like chapter 26 in the book and I hadn't done any of the problems. It wasn't that I want,id to do bad. 1 just didn't care. Ile spent an hour trying to give mn a pep talk on it. Then l realized. if ho was so enthu­siastic about organic chemistry. then that's obvious­ly why he was in that area. l had other things that l was more interested in." 
From Belis' experience in choosing a major, she discovered that personal satisfaction is hy to per­sonal happiness. Getting to know Belis, one realizes that this is a ram personal hallmark for young peo­ple today. 
"I would suggest to anyone to try us many· diffor­ent things as possible and to choose something that you enjoy, not just something that your parents want you to do," she said. 
.,. 


MARV CALASHffhe Observer 

Bells has a remarkable vision concerning personal happiness and satisfaction. By simply choosing to pursue careers in two things she enjoys, she has paved a path to life-long success. 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, September 8, 1999 
NFL 
New York acquires free-agent Par01alee 
Associated Press 
HEMPSTEAD, N.Y. 
For more than a year, New York Jets linebacker Bryan Cox has been urging coach Bill Parcells to try to sign Dolphins running back Bernie Parmalee. On Tuesday, two days after Miami let Parmalee go, Parcells did just that. 
"Yesterday. I called Bryan up and told him, 'Quit bug­ging me, I got the player,' " Parcells said. Parmalee, 32 next wenk, will be plugged in immndiately on most of the Jets' special teams. The eighth-year veteran, Miami's leading tackler on coverage teams the past two seasons, also might be utilized as a third-down back. 
"It's great." said Parmalee, who is from New Jersey, as is Parcells. 'Tve got an oppor­tunity to play for one of the greatest coaches that ever coached. When my career is done, I can say I had the opportunity to play for the big Tuna. It's good to know that." 
To make room for 
Parmalee, the Jets terminat­
ed the contract of running 
back Keith Byars, who had 
been scheduled to be a back­
up F-Back in the club's 
restructured offense. Byars, 
who did not play special 
teams, was effectively 
CLASSIFIEDS 
bumped to third string Sunday when Parcells elected to keep second-year player Blake Spence, a promising talent. 
Jets players were as happy to see Parmalee arrive Tuesday as Dolphins players were sorry to sc.e him go Sunday. The back, a special­teams co-captain for 11.fiami a season ago, is known as a solid locker room presence and a leader on the field. 
The Dolphins, overloaded with running backs and young players on the rise, no longer had room for Parmalee. 
''I'm never bitter," Parmalee said. "l don't hold any grudges. I just move on. That's life; everything's not going to work out the way you want it all the time, so you just have to move on." 
Parcells had eye,d Parmalee long before Cox began to speak up. The former rookie free agent, signed by Miami in 1992, has been a familiar scouting target for the coach in stints with the New England Patriots and Jets. The men talked often before games in recent seasons. 
"l feel like I know Bernie Parmalee as well as some of my players, probably better than some of my players," Parcells said. "I've coached against him 15 or 16 times. I know the player." 
NBA 

Hamilton signs with Wizards 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
The Washington Wizards signed first-round draft pick Richard Hamilton to a three­year deal worth just over $5. 9 million, ending a delay that began when Connecticut All-America fired his agent. 
"This guy is famous now but he's going to be a hell of a lot more l'amous when he helps the Wizards win the championship," owner Abe Pollin said Tuesday. 
"We're out to have a very competitive team," Pollin said. "We are going to be in the playoffs this year." 
The Wizards · also announced Tuesday that they signed second-round draft choice Calvin Booth from Penn State. 
Hamilton. drafted seventh overall this year, had agreed to a three-year, $5.9 million deal in .July, but fired his agent before it was signed. 
"l feel as though I'm blessed to be here," Hamilton said. 'Tm very excited." 
The 6-foot-6, 185-pound Hamilton scored 27 points to lead Connecticut past Duke in the NCAA championship game this year and was named the most outstanding player of the 1999 Final Four. 
Hamilton averaged 21.5 points in 1998-99 and was co-Big East Player of the Year, with Miami's Tim James. 

Richard Hamilton, an All-American with Connecticut, signed a three-year, $5.9 million deal with Washington on Tuesday. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Norre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserve; the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. · 
NOTICES 
Gay, Lesbian and Bisexual students of ND/SMC meeting each Thurs. For info call: 
(877)631-6OUT 
SKYDIVE'! Try the ULTIMATE RUSH Training students for over 30 years SOCCERZONE Soccer Instructors 
Part time positions of 5·10 hrs/wk. teaching soccer classes for 3-8 yr. olds. 10am-12pm & 4pm-7pm, Mon. thru Thurs. Must have teaching experience. basic soccer skill knowledge. Multiple positions avail­able immediately. Call Dan Payne, Soccer Zone 
243-5777. 
Inn @ Saint Mary's seeking van dri-

THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths, $80· $115, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road Exit #107, 1­800·418-9487. 
3·6 BDRM HOMES NEAR CAM­PUS. NOW OR 2000/2001.ROOMS ALSO 272-6306 
LOADED 6 Bedrm '00·01 yr. 273-0482 / 234-3831 
ND football tix for sale. I NEED 6 TIX (GA OR AM -232-2378 OTHER).FOR OKLAHOMA. PM -286-2726 CALL LIZ 243-0151 

FOR SALE 
Spring Break Specials!Bahamas Party Cruise 5 Days $279! Includes Meals! Awesome Beaches,Nightlife'Cancun & Jamaica 7 Nights From $399! FLoricla $129!springbreaktravel.com 
1-800-678-6386 
I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME  I have 4 tickets to the Perdue  
GAMES.2726551  game.  If interested call  Laura at  
234-3615.  
BUYING and SELLING ND FOOT·  
BALL TICKETS.  Family seeks 2,3, or 4 tickets to  
GREAT PRICES. CALL 289-8048  ND-Navy game Oct. 30.  
reasonable priced  
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++  412-741-8727  
++  
N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS  


1 hour North of South Bend Call for class times  var/house person Good hours & pay.Apply  LARGE 1-bdrm apt.  NEW Prepaid Phone Cards!!!  BUY/SELUTRADE ALL GAMES  PERSONAL  
GREAT LAKES SKYDIVERS  within.  All utilities+ cable. $450/mo. $250  $20 ->669 minutes  ALL LOCATIONS  
1-800-351-6617  dep. 10 mins. to ND  Call 243-9361, ask for Rob  GREAT PRICES  lnteresested in jazz or classical  
Coach's Sports Bar & Grill  273·3876.  271-9330  piano lessons?  
is looking for line cooks, will pay for  FOR SALE  !!NO STUDENT TICKETS!!  Only $10/week call Joel at 288­ 
LOST & FOUND  experance. Please call277-7678, or stop by 2046 South Bend Ave.  3 bdrm duplex, remodeled. 503 Eddy, one mile from campus.  N.D. FOOTBALL TIX CALL 271-9412  TICKETMART INC. www.ndtickets.com  4517.  
Appliances, W/D. 273-8332.  +++++++++++++++++++++++++++  I hope Timmy had a good night.  
LOST; BAG OF MAKEUP IN  FOR SALE  +++  I worked a double shift.  
JOYCE CENTER THE WEEK OF  Afterschool childcare needed. 3:00­ AVAILABLE FALL 2000  N.D. FOOTBALL TIX  
.,.  8/23. PLEASE CALL LAURIE AT  5:00pm weekdays (all or some).  5-6 STUDENT RENTAL ...2 1/2  CALL 271-9412  GA FOOTBALL TICKETS  Stella is cool.  
247-0545.  Must be good with children and  BATH;COMMON AREA ON EACH  ALL HOME  GAMES  
have reliable car.  LEVEL AND HUGE BONUS COM­ FOR SALE:  New, rust colored  BEST PRICES 272-7233  So is Mary.  
LOST: My Student Ticket Book· I  Call Angela 234-2211 (days), 271·  MON AREA ... PARKING  chair, will deliver to campus, $50,  ASK FOR  AL  And Jeanine.  
need it tor obvious reasons. It is  8224 (eves.)  LOT.LAUNDRY.  call 1-5766.  
sectior:i30 row56.  DON'T DELAY ON THIS ONE.  NEED 2 MICHIGAN ST TIX!!!  Let's not forget Allie.  
Please call 4-1663 for reward!  WANTED: Student bus help. Apply  DAVE AT 291-2209.  FREE TRIAL OF A BRAND NEW  email:  moon.6@nd.edu  And certajnly not Cynthia; she's  
at UNIVERSITY CLUB 9am-5pm.  TECHNOLOGY 30 MIN LONG DIS- cool too.  
FOOTBALL WEEKENDS MANDA­ AVAILABLE FALL 2000  TANCE CALLS FREE SEND SASE  FOR SALE  
WANTED  TORY. Competitive wages. meals provid­ 4-5 STUDENT RENTAL HOUSE SECURITY SYSTEM,CENTAAL  TO G MARKS PO BOX 920528 NEEDHAM,MA. 02492  N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS CALL 271-9412  And last but with the coolest name, Laura.  
ed.  AIR  
FREE FOOD AND FROSTY BEV·  CONDITIONING.LAUNDRY.PARK­ PURDUE TIX TICKETMART  Hi Joe.  
ERAGES In return for a place to crash for the  Help wanted at 4 Michiana loca- ING LOT...DAVE AT 291-2209.  TICKETS  271-9330  This is a shout out to my parents,  
ND-USC game.  lions. Great pay, flex. hrs. No  AVAILABLE SPRING 2000  I need 3 Arizona tix- Please call  Ann and Jim Pete lie. Are you read­ 
4 •94.95 alums seeking refuge. Call  Sundays. Apply in person or send  4-5 STUDENT RENTAL HOUSE  NEED TO BUY 2 · 4 ND vs. ASU  Colleen 4-2244 if you can help!  Ing? There will be a test.  
Bill @ 703-469· 1008.  resume to:  SECURITY SYSTEM.CENTRAL  TIX, OCT.  
FRULLATI CAFE/UP MALL  AIR  STUDENT OR GA's are fine.  I need 3 Arizona tix-Please call  Sometimes you feel like a nut.  
STUDENT OPENINGS  6501 N. GRAPE RD.  #576  CONDITIONING.LAUNDRY,  CALL AUTUMN. 284-5024.  Colleen 4·2244 if you can help'  
5-30 hrs./week.  Flex.  around  MISHAWAKA, IN 46545  PARKING LOT..  Sometimes you don't.  
classes. Scholarships avail.  DAVE AT 291-2209.  WANTED NOTRE DAME FOOT- Need 4 Oklahoma GAs · Matt 4­ 
www.workforstudents.com/lN  BALL TICKETS  1248  WHERE MY GIRLS AT? Oh, in  
282·2357  Looking for 1 more roommate to  271-1526  rockin' sorority!  
Spring Break '00  FOR RENT  move into beautiful off-campus house in Riverside historic district.  SELL & BUY GA FOOTBALL TICK·  Needed: GAs to ND Home Games. 4 Oklahomas, 1 ASU, 2 uses.  Hey, to all my new best buds at ND,  
Cancun.Mazatlan or Jamaica  Male or female (currently 2 male, 1  ETS  277·6619  Will pay cash. Call Morgan at 634­ Kristin, Tara, Kate. Lauren, Keara,  
From $399  ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE  female living there) who wants a  1064.  Jason and Dan and of course my  
Reps wanted! Sell 15 and travel  HOME FOR  clean, safe house and likes good  WANTED·  very best pal forever Bo:  
lree! LOWEST PRICESIII!  ND-SMC EVENTS.  music. N-Sync fans need not reply.  ND football tix.  WILL TRADE 2-4 PURDUE TIX  
lnfo:Call 1 ·800-446-8355  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  280.00/month plus utilities. Call  AM -232-2378  FOR 1·2TENN. TIX.  HAVE A GREAT DAY!!!  
www.sunbreaks.com  243-0658.  288-4517.  PM -286-2726  847-344-1505.  

page 17

Wednesday, September 8, 1999 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
There's a hot new commodity. 
University cf Notre Dame 
C A R E E R F A I R 
T H U R s D A y s E P T E M B E R 9
I 
6 0 0 P M 8:30PM C 0 L L E G E 0 F B U S I N E s s AD M I N I S T R A T I 0 N 
The stock market has reached new heights and now is your chance to be part of it. As 
one of the nation's leading discount brokerage firms, we're experiencing phenomenal 
growth -and we're paving the way for ambitious people like you who are eager to get a 
head start on success. Currently, we're seeking highly motivated individuals who are ready 
to reach their full potential. We will sponsor you for the series 7 and 63 licenses. 
As part of the Waterhouse team, you will be rewarded with a non-commission base 
salary, bonus and an exceptional benefits package including medical, dental and 401 K. Stop 
by our booth to find out more about a career at Waterhouse. If you are unable to visit with 
us, forward your resume to: TD Waterhouse, Human Resources Division, 120 South 
Riverside Plaza, Suite 1500, Chicago, IL 60606; fax: 312-627-8073; e-mail: 
careers@waterhouse.com. An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/DN 
ll!)WATERHOUSE 

.. 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, September 8, 1999 
U.S. OPEN 

Hingis, Williams advance with straight-set victories 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK 
Neilher seven double-faults by Venus Williams nor a whip­ping wind that sent shots 11ying as wildly as Wifflc halls in f\larlina llingis' malr.h could 

, keep thnm from their inevitable rnmntr,h al tlrn lJ.S, Op<'n. Two years after Ilingis thrashed the inexperienr.pd 
· Williams in the final of her Opt>n debul, tlrn two will meet again in Arthur Ashe Sladium, this lime in the scmilinu.1s. Last tinw, I ho11eslly did not know what I was doing," Williams said of her 6-0. (,-4 loss to I lingis for the I997 title. "I'm a di!TerPnt player now. "The koy for me is ddinitely to abandon all unforced errors. In order not to play her and myself;, I have to stop making PITOfS From 0-2 Tuesday, the top­ranked llingis won 12 straight ganrns amid stiff gusts to stroll into the semis with u. 6-2, 6-0 victorv over Anke lluher. The~ wind died down a bit after a brief shower in the evening, and the No. 3 Williams unleashed an all-court attack that enabled her to overcome serving woes in a 6-4, 6-3 win against No. 12 Barbara Schett. 
Williams dominated at the net and the baseline in the slugfest against the hard-hit­ting Schett. punctuating the first set with an overhead that caromed into the stands on set 

point. She broke Schett's ser­vice three times in the second set. the last time closing out the match with a backhand return that Schett couldn't touch. 
Williams. 19, has ·won only throe of her 10 matches against the 18-year-old llingis. 
llingis couldn't quite get a bead on the IJalls Huber. was sending her vrny during the first couple of games, and she couldn't tame the shots she was sPnding back. 
Hingis' bcl"uddlmnent didn't last long, though, as shr ctemonstratnd her talent for adj11sting to diflicull. conditions and outthink opponents. ; 
Players have complained about the wind in lhe sladium since it opened twp years ago. l3l,\t the remnants of tropical storm Dennis have buffeted the court for several days, making this year's conditions. the worst so far. 
"She used the wind ,·ery well today to her advantage," said Huber. who Inst to Hingis for the ninth time in 10 matches. "She's just a very smart player, smarter than anybody else on the tour. 
"The wind wasn't always against me, but it looked like it. I just overpowered the balls a little bit, made too many mis­takes. It was very difficult because I play more aggressive than her, My shots are not as safe as hers. I thought maybe in these conditions, she's going to miss a little bit more, but she just didn't make any easy mis­takes or any rnistakos at all." 
llingis eschewed modesty and agreed that she probably is the smartest player on the tour, at least when it comes to playing in the wind. 
"Today I used the wind very much," she said. "l was able to handle it better than her. She was getting frustrated witb the serve, It feels like weightlifting when you play against the wind. You lJasically have 110 control if thP other player is just as smart. I would tu.kc advantage of that. 
"You learn it by nxperionce. You don't get born with that thing. Some hit tlrn ball hard, some don't. Some are tall. I have to use other weapons lo stay at the top, otherwise I wouldn't bo the No. 1 player if l wouldn't think a little bit on court." 
Injuries continuP-d to plague the men's draw, already weak­c n ed by the loss of Pete Sampras and Mark Philippoussis before the tour­nament. as Magnus Norman became the seventh man to quit in midmatch. 
Norman hurt his back and had to stop after losing the first set 7-6 (7-4) to No. 5 Gustavo Kuerten, allowing the 1997 French Open champion from Brazil to advance to the quar­terfinals against rrenchman Cedric Pioline. 
Pioline, who knocked off No. 14 Tommy Haas 6-4, 7-5, 6-3, reached the Open final in 1993 and at Wimbledon in 1997, but 

he has never won a Grand Slam tournament. 
Norman hurt himself in the 11th game against Kuerten but tried to keep playing. 
In the 11th game, the Swede raced to the net for a drop shot and nicked the ball crosscourt for a winner, pumping his fist as he broke Kuerten to 6-5. After the changeover, Norman was to serve for the set. 
But when he got up from his chair to return to the court, he grabbed his back on the right side. lfo called for a trainer, who rubbed liniment on the right side of his back. 
"It was not the last point when I broke him," said Norman, whose injury was diagnosed as a lower back str.ain;, "It was the point before. 

H.IGGINS LABOR AESEA~ CEt.'~lF:R 
'-----..--­
----......--..... 
TONIGHT The United Steel Workers of America & The Higgins Labor Research Center welcome 



AFL-CIO President John J. Sweeney to the University of Notre Dame campus 
"We intend to rebuild the labor movement, so we can put some moral responsibility back into the heads of our leaders and back into the souls of our elected officials" 
-John J. Sweeney 

Wednesday, September 8 
8:00 p.m. ~ 102 DeBartolo Hall 
John J. Sweeney was elected to a second term as president of the AFL-CIO at the federation's biennial convention in Pittsburgh, September 1997. He 
was first elected president in 1995 on a platform of revitalizing the 13 million member federation. 
Wcdncstby, September 8, 1999 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 
----=======-----==========================================-=--~~-=-========----.~ 
ATTENTION CLUB & DORM LEADERS! 
All Social Commissioners, Hall Presidents, Club Officers, Advisors, Social Chairs, Concession Stand Coordinators and anyone interested in registering to win over $200 in prizes are encouraged to attend VENDOR FAIR! 
WIN A FREE DJ FOR YOUR EVENT! SAMPLE FREE FOOD! MEET 20 OF THE AREA'S STUDENT-FOCUSED BUSINESSES! 


By the way, have you been tr~ined in safe food handling procedures? It"'you plan on sponsoring events with 

.. 
..

food being served, you need to attend. 
HOW TO PLAN A PARTY (Food Service Certification Training) 
. 5:00PM -6:00PM MONTGOMERY THEATRE .. 
Wednesday, September 8, 1999 

page 20 The Obmver . SPORTS 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
,, 
Texas quarterback Simms adjusting to southern life 
Associated Press 
AUSTIN, Texas 

So far, the most difficult adjustment for Chris Simms, the New Jersey high school star quarterback turned Texas freshman, has been the lan­guage. 
Like many Yankees, Simms has no concept of that mainstay ofSoutlrnrn dialects -lixin'. 
"I say I'm going to the movies. They say they're fixin' to go to the movies," Simms said, laugh­ing. "I just do not understand what that word means. What are you fixin' to do?" 
Simms, the son of former New York Giants quarterback Phil Simms. got to play for the first timo last week in Texas' 69-17 romp over Stanford. 
After throwing for 27 yards and a touchdown in mop-up duty, he could play again when Texas (1-1) faces Rutgers ( 0-1 l Saturday in Piscataway, N.J., just 40 miles from his homo in Franklin Lakes. 
Under Texas rules, freshmen can't talk to the media until they have played in a game. Finally allowed to speak, Simms' rolled off stories about how an Easterner with NFL pedigree and a rocket of a !ef't arm had adjusted to life in the Lone Star State. 
For the rer.ord, he loves bar­becue. his teammates tease him about his clothes and he digs watching his old man sweat it out in the stands in the Texas heal. 
His most embarrassing moment was his first on cam­pus. After spending the night at the posh Four Seasons hotel, he was ready to move on campus when freshmen were due. 
Having no car in town, he asked the hotel for help. It sent the hotel limousine service. a garish white van with leather seats and a wet bar. The van, and the two women attendan'ts dressed in black suits and ties, left Simms feeling a bit sheep­ish. 
"l told my mom I'm not riding in that. I knew I was never going to livn it down," Simms said. 
Longhorns players took one look at that on thB evening news and dubbed Simms "Limo." 
"As soon as the varsity got here. they had seen it on TV, they were like, 'What are you doing?' he said. 
Simms loves the Italian food hack home but is enamored of Texas barbecue. 
"l can't recall one barbecue joint [in N11w Jersey]." Simms said. "I love barbecue. They make fun of me because I go out to dinner a lot and I eat barbe­cue almost every night." 
Crawfish are another story. "They've got like tentacles .. I'll never eat the stuff" 1-lis New Jersey accent and 
.,. 
clothes -lots of blacks and grays and jeans slung low on his hips -sometimes prompts jokes from teammates who have 
never been east of the 
Mississippi. 
"A lot of my friends call me the Italian Stallion," said Simms, who with a shock of blond hair and blue eyes looks about as Italian as Boomer Esiason. 
"They're used to more happi­
er colors here." 
The trip home will mean 
another chance for his dad to 
watch him play. ABC cut away 
to Phil Simms watching from 
the stands during the Stanford 
game, looking very hot in the 
94-degree weather. 
"It's fun watching him sit in 
the stands and suffer in the heat 
having to watch me," Simms 
said. "I had to do it for him the 
for first 13 years of my life" 
Simms was 3 of 7 passing in 
the fourth quarter when the 
game was all but over. After the 
touchdown. he spread his arms 
and ran around as if he were 
flying. 
"f was like .a kid in a candy store the first time," he said. "f couldn't get the smile off my face." 

The debut wasn't perfect. llis first two passes were batted down at the line. 
''1'111 6-foot-5 and couldn't get it over the line. I couldn't believe that," Simms said. 
Simms' toughest challenge may be living up to the expecta­tions. Even with the return of quarterback ·Major Applewhite, the 1998 Big 12 freshman of the year, some fans speculated he could contend for the starting role. 
Although coach Mack Brown 
has never indicated that's even 
a possibility, Applewhite has 
seemed to respond to Simms' 
presence. He's thrown for 669 
yards and four touchdowns in 
two games. 
Applewhite, one of the first to 
congratulate Simms on his 
touchdown pass, says the two 
have worked well together. 
"It doesn't bother me," 
Applewhite said. "The backup 
No other corporation can match the diversity 
QB is probably the most popular can thank himself for fueling guy on the team. one. 
"I don't feel a push from lie initially committed to Chris. I nfrnd to help him or Tennessee, where he could have whoever it might be become a fought to replace senior Tee good backup." Applewhite said. Martin next year. He then chose 
Simms wants no part of a Texas, whern App(1>,white is only quarterback controversy but a sophomore. 
Kevin Sharpe 
PIANIST 
TUESDAY SEPTEMBER 14, 1999 7-:30 PM LITTLE THEATRE 

For ticket information contact the 

Saint Mary's Box Office 
284-4626 


We didn't become Fortune• magazine's America's 
Most Admired Company* by accepting _the status quo. We got there by hiring and training graduates with the confidence and courage to think in innovative and revolutionary ways. 
ofopportunities at GE. Because we have small company attitudes with large company strengths, we set no limits, no boundaries. You can move from industry to industry, 
discipline to discipline, and never leave GE.
UNIVERSITY lADIDRY & TINNING 
We're a leader in every business we compete in,
SEPTl ¦ BER SPECIALS: 

and we're looking for leaders like Ayako who will take us even further. Start your career byvisiting our website FREE DRYING All MONTH now. An Equal Opportunity Employer. 
DROP OFF LAUNDRY 49C /LB. $4MINIMUM Learn about ~, st . -~ _. 
.... www.gecareers.com -., 
-
TANNING 10 VISITS S19.99 ______________________;,_____:_IM.=e bring good things to life. 
TO BE USED WITHIN 3MONTHS GE Aircraft Engines• GE Appliances· GE Capital Services• GE Corporale Research and Developmen!• GE Industrial Systems GE Information Services• GE Lighting• GE Medical Svstems·GE Plastics• GE Power Systems• GE Supply• GETransportati!Jn Systems• NBC '3/1/99 
Sept 10th -10:00 am -3:30 pm 
College ofBusiness Administration (Stop by to discuss fult-time and intern opportunities -bring your resume) 
Please confirm dates & time., wilh your Career Placement Office for any last minule changes. 
Wednesday, September 8, 1999 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 
~--_-_-_--=-=====-~======--=============~==~=-=----=-------=--=--=--=--=--=-=--=-------=--=-------=-------=--=----=--=--=--=---::.=-======= 
cor1 r.om .com .corn .corn .corn .com .com 
.com 
.com .corn com :com .com ..com .cnn1 .con1 .com .con1 .com .con1 .com .com .com n .con1 .com .com .com com .com .com .com 

.corn. _,corn 
.con1 .conl .com .com 
Why work for one .com, when you can work for hundreds? 
.corn 
.com -com .com .com .com .com .com .com .com .com .corn com .com .com .com corn .com .com .com .com .com .com .com .com .con1 .com .com corn .com-.com .com .corn .corn .com .corn .com .corn .com .com .com .COfTl .com .com .com .com com .com · .com .com 

·­

.corn .com .com .con'l .com .com .com .com .com .COlll .corr1 .com .com .corn com .com .com .com .COrl .com .com .com 
.corn· .com .com .com 
FORTUNE You haven't gotten this far by limiting
.com .com .com .com .com com 
101],.~~ •• your possibilities. And if you want to 
~PANIES 
TO WURi FDR go even farther, consider the possibilities at Ernst & Young. You'll have access to some of the most 
.com· .com .con1 .COITl .COITl 
sophisticated tools in the technology industry and work with some of the companies that help define it. Log on. www.ey.com 
·.con1 .com .com .com · .corn 
.con·1 . . corn 



page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, September 8, 1999 
" 
MEN'S LACROSSE 
DeRiso joins Irish 
staff as assistant 

" 
Special to The Observer 
Former University of Notre Dame men's lacrosse captain Will De Riso has joined the Irish coaching staff as an assistant coach. 
Hr replaces two-y1\ar assis­tant Jim Finlay who recently left to lake an assistant's post at Brown University. DeRi.so will work specifically with Notre lJame's atlack and mid­field units. 
DeRiso, a two-vear starter at attack, played ·ror the Irish from 1994-97. 
The Cold Spring Harbor, 
N.Y ., native finished his career with 35 goals and 37 assists for 72 points, which currently ties him for 18th on the rnreer scoring list. 
In his senior season, he led Notre Dame in scoring with 43 points as he recorded single­season bests of 18 goals and 2 5 assists. De Riso, whose Notre Dame teams won four consecutive Great Western 
Lacrosse League champi­onships and earned four NCAA tournament appearances, was a first-team GWLL selection in 1997. 
Born Mav 26, 1975, neRiso graduatel from Notre Dame '97 with a degree in finance from the College of Business Administration. Since his graduation from the University, he has worhd as a financial analyst for Bank of America in Chicago. ­
"Will DeTTiso is a great addi­tion to our coaching staff,"Notre Dame head coach Kevin Corrigan says. "Ile was a tremendous playmaker and scorer for us during his career and has a keen knowledge of our system and the style we play. 
"He worked extremely hard throughout his career at mak­ing himself a better player," Corrigan continued. Our returning players will benefit from his expertise and tremendous work ethic and will enjoy working with him." 

WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
McCardell leads U.S. team past Australia 
Associated Press 
Notre Dame freshman women's lacrosse player Kelly Mccardell was named player of the game as the United States under-19 women's lacrosse team beat host Australia 7-4 in the round robin portion of the 1999 IFWLA World Championships. 
The win improves the U.S. to 4-0 in the seven-team field. The U.S. led 4-1 at halftime on its way to avenging a loss to Australia in the 1995 title. 
The U.S. opened the tourna­ment with a 22-4 win over Wales, then blanked Scotland 22-0 with a goal by Mccardell and knocked off Canada 17-7 with another goal by Mccardell. 
Next up for the Americans is 
Japan on Wednesday followed 
by the final game of the round 
robin against England on 
Friday. The top two teams in 
the field will advance to the gold medal game. The U.S. is in first place at 4-0 with Australia and Canada tied for second with 2-1 record. 
Mccardell is one of just six incoming college freshmen to be selected to the team, which is comprised of players under the age of 19 who have not yet played a collegiate women's lacrosse game. She also is the first Notre Dame women's lacrosse player to be selected for a national team in the four-year history of the pro­gram. Mccardell starred at Henderson High School in her hometown of West Chester, Pa., where she led her team to consecutive state district titles. She has garnered all­state honors and played in the STX Lacrosse Festival. Mccardell also played on the Philly II region team at the United States Women's Lacrosse Association tourna­ment and will be one of eight freshmen on the 2000 Irish women's lacrosse team. 


SWIMMING 
Notre Dam.e succeeds out of pool 
Special 10 The Observer 

Eighl members of the Notre Dame women's swimming and diving team have been honored by the College Swimming Coaches Association of America (CSCAA) for their academic achievements during the 1998-99 season. 
Current team members, seniors Elizabeth Barger and Shannon Suddarth, along with 1999 graduate Brittany Kline, garnered CSCAA All­Academic first team honors. Barger, a two-time All­American, posted a 3.73 grade-point average last year as an American studies major, while Suddarth, a four-time All-American, earned a 3.50 GPA last year while studying as a market­ing major. 
Kline, meanwhile, garnered All-America status as a mem­ber of the team's 200 medley relay and completed her senior year with a 3.88 grade-point average in man­agement information sys­tems. 
Five other members of the 1998-99 Notre Dame women's swimming and div­ing team also earned honor­able mention honors from the CSCAA, including divers junior Jessica Johnstone 
(3.84 -psychology) and senior Gina Ketelhohn (3.50 ­management information systems) and swimmers Kathleen Rimkus (3.75 ­math), Brooke Davey (3.67 ­First Year of Studies) and Laura Shepard (3.62 ­finance). 
Overall. Notre Dame's three members on the first team were the third-most of any university, while Notre Dame's five on the honorable menlion team were the sec­ond-most behind Kentucky, which led with seven selec­tions. 
To qualify as a CSCAA All­Academic team member, the student must qualify to par­ticipate in the NCAA, NAIA or JC Swimming and Diving 
National Championships, have a cumulative grade point average of at least 3.5 (on a 4.0 scale) and also must have completed the equivalent of 24 semester hours at the institution Lhat thoy represented during th,~ year. 
Honorable M1rntion All­Academic team members must have achieved a provi­sional NCAA qualifying stan­dard and also have a 3.5 GPA. 

Best Buddies 
ITS ABOUT HAVING AND BEING A FRIEND! 
Come to our informational meeting on Thursday, September 9th , 7pm at the CSC! 
For more information call: Mimi x2735 or Colleen x 4072 
Your next friend might be your Best Buddy!// 


M>'S WEDNESDAY M:GHf IIXNG OUT 
,------------------------------~-.-----------~----------~­
........ -­
Wednesday, September 8, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
• 

GOLF 
Connell, Smith earn campus medalist honors 
Spedal 10 The Observer 
Senior Jeff Connell continued his masl111f~tt the Notrn Dame Campus <:olf' Championship while junior Shane Smith clain111d nwdalist honors in the WD1TW11's co1111wtitio11, following l'inal-day action Sunday al 
lllackthorn Coif' Club. 
C:onnnll-who shot a 0111'-ovnr 
7:~ in Satunlay's round (after which tlw nwn's field was cut from 52 to 27 golfers! closed tho four-round tournament 
with a 74 on Sunday morning and a one-under 71 in the afternoon. llis Lota! of' four­over 292-which included a 74 in the Aug. 29 first round-yield­ed a fivu-stroke cushion over classmat1• Todd VMnon and sophomore Steve HaLay, who both postnd totals of 297. 
Connell's impressive l'our­yoar run at thn Campus Championship includes placing fourth as a l'rcshmun in 1996 ('.~03), edging Vernon by a shot for the 1997 title (298) and los­ing in a playoff to Brad llartlin 

last year (292). He averaged 
74.06 strokes per round over his four Campus Championship appearances, all at Blackthorn. 
Smith shot 79 on Sunday to win the 36-hnle women's championship, allnr carding an 81 on Aug. 29. SmiLh's 160 total bested junior Becca Srhloss (82-82) by four strokes, fo.llowcd by junior Danielle Villarosa (82-8:1) and sopho­
more  Kristin McMurtrie  {82­ 
83) at 165.  
Smith's  final-round  79  

included birdies on the par-4, 

Classes a little 
DULL??!?! 
SAB Presents comedian
,,.,aaE 
Thursday. September fth Dallowa11·s at B pm 
Join us for some lauehs and snacks! 
292-yard 2nd hole and the par­4, 407-yard 10th. She had 10 pars, three bogeys and three double-bogeys in the final round. 
Connell's 292 total included 14 birdies, 42 pars, 14 bogeys and Lwo double-bogeys. lie opent1d play on Aug. 29 with four birdies and six bogeys while his round on Saturday included four birdies, thnw bogeys and one double. Connell stumbled a bit on Sunday morning (two birdies, two bogeys, one double) befoi-e closing the tournament with a four-birdie, three-bogey round. 
Connell's 14 birdies came on l 1 different holes, including two each on the par-four, 4(15­yard 5th, the par-five, 525-yard 15th and the par-five, 534-yard 18th. He posted three birdies on par-three holes, six on par­four boles and live on par-lives. 
Vernon, who held a two-shot lcarl after an opening-round 72, dropped to a 76 on Saturday before improving with rounds of 75 and 74 on Sunday. Hatay-who served as a member or the Irish starting f'ivc in the spring of 1999­opened last week with a 74 
before adding round of 75-71­
77 for his 297 total. 
Other top finishers in the 
men's competition included juniors Alex Knnt (77-75-76­74/302) and Adam Anderson (74-77-74-79/304). The hesl round of the tournament also was turned in by a junior, as Pat Schamer shot a two-under ,70 on Sundav aft1irnoon for a 307 total · (81-78-78-70). Schaffler made up for three bogeys in his final round (on 7, 12 and 18) by posting birdies on the 2nd, 5th, 11th, 15th and 
16th holes. 
Hounding out the top finish­ers for the wom1m wore sur­.. prising freshman Michelin Halverson {l~:~-85/1681 and junior Mary Klein (86-83). 
Senior Andrea Kl11n of 
NFHrnah, Wis., was unable to 
defend her campus champi­
onship title, dun to a wrist 
injury suffornd in narly August. 
The condition of hnr arm will 
be chccknd on a wnokly basis 
and tlrn Irish team captain will 
remain out inddinitcly while 
clarifying the nxtnnt of her 
injury. 

Recycle The Observer 
-

Jhe Socwl'J /orfiuman Re:1ource mUllWfjemenl &the man<hjemenl Club 
woufJA£e lo invite ever'lone lo allernl tfw... 
Donnelly Lecture Series in Participatory Management 
**** 
Ken Schmidt of Harley-Davidson 
"The Rise and Fall and Rise of Harley-Davidson: The Power of Employee Empowerment" 
**** 
Friday, September 10 12:00 -1:15 p.m. 
Jordan Auditorium College of Business Administration 
.,. 

page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, September 8, 1999 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 

Skip Holtz remains hospitalized with abdominal pain 
Associa1cd Press 
COLU'v1BIA, S.C. 
South Carolina offensive coorrlinator Skip Holtz remained in thn hospital Tuesday as his concerned f'athi•r · preparf'd thf' Gamecocks' offense for this Saturday's game at Georgia. 
Holtz. '.-l5. was at Lr~xington M,1dical CentPr !'or the second straight night. Doctors have not ddt!rmin('(I the cause of' th t\ soverl' abdomiu al pain lw's fnlt sincP last week. South Carolina roach l.ou lloltz said. 
"tie's bPl..'11 mv son for :rn­some V(!ars and this is the first timt~ 1· can 1wpr n•member him going to a doctor." Lou lloltz said, "ever." 
Skip Holtz was resting com­fortably. school spokesman Kerry Tharp said. 
Lou Holtz said Skip was on intravenous lrPatmPnts for the past 70 hours. He had a !'ever since Wcdn11sday night and had gone lo the doctor Friday. 
"lip wouldn't let !the doctor! tPll anyone." Lou Holtz said. "Ile was in great pain Saturday. But hP. hid it." 
Both Holtzes were at North Carolina State this past Saturday for the Gamecocks' I 0-0 loss. On Sunday. Skip complainPd of abdominal pain and went to the hospital for tPsts. He wEint to the emer­gency room Monday for more tests and antibiotic treat­ments. 

Lou Holtz talked with his son ''He's says he's feeling bet­Tuesday and was going to see ter," Lou Holtz said, "but him after praclice. Docrors we've got to sne if the temper­had wanti>d to perform a ature went down." laparoscopy. a process where The fever could be an indi­a slender endoscope is insert­cation of a viral infection. "bul ed into tlw abdominal \.Vall. they got different synops('S, Skip did 11 ot want it done ""ith · they don't know," Iloltz said. out knowing what was wrong. Starter Phil Petty said he his f'ath!lr said. wasn't aware last weok that. 
''You'<l just likf, to know Skip, who also is quarterbacks what's going to be done brfore coach. was hurting. l11ey go in." Lou lloltz, 62. "It isn't a distraction so f'ar." said. "If you're my age you Petty said. 'Tm just more con­don't rare. If..you're 35, you cernNl with talking tu him to want to know. see if' he's OK." 
Should lloltz improve. he Skip bas missed the past two could come home Wednesday. practices and his father took a 
LASALLE BOOKSTORE 
Fall Semester Sale! 
We're your source for the best theological and philosophical books-we can special order any book you need l 
20% OFF ALL BOOKS SEPTEMBER 7-10 
LASALLE BOOKSTORE• 234-0003 • lasalle@michiana.org 237 N. Michigan St. (at LaSalle), downtown So. Bend 
Now open until 6:00 p.m. Tuesday and Thursday! 
Open l 0-5 Mon/Wed/Fri, and 11-6 Tues/Thurs 
more active role with thP. offense. Ile spent about 30 minutes with the offensive linemen alter practice. Lou Holtz briefly lined a few of lhem up in three-poin l stances, but mostly sat on the practice field talking to them. 
Despitn Skip's hospital time. 
his father wasn't ready to give up on his son making South Carolina's opening Southeastern Conf'erPnce game at Georgia. 
Lou Holtz said tlrnrn was still time to sen if Skip !'Pit wnll Pnough to travel, "but I'm counting on him bning them." 

Attention All H.U.G.S. Members: 
What: Informational Meeting When: Thursday, Sept. 9th 1999 5:00 -6:00 PM 
Where: CSC 
If you cannot attend or have any questions, call Jeanne, Amy, or Jessica at 247-1689 

r---------~-----------------------------------­
Wednesday, September 8, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
Soccer 
continued from page 28 
squad to t.lw lidd. T!w Broncos look rnntro! in t.lw opPning min­utt>s and managPd to pul som11 fH"1•ssur1• on th1• 11nt. Tim llro11rns cldivPn1d four shots 011 g111tl lrnliirn tlw Irish could put logt>tlwr an of'1'1•11siv11 slral1\gy. ThP \V(•slPl'll Michigan off1•11sP 
kopl Short busy in gual and Im f"i11ish1•d r!1P garnP with orw sav1i. . 
Tlw Irish squad sl.cppcd up its play will! two minul<'s rmnain­i11g i11 rngulalio11 hrH failPtl to ra11italizl' 011 t.h1·1·P scoring 
opporluniLins. h,rward Mall 
Husso kirk<•d a strnight sltol form f hf> lop of' t.hn box hut was 
blocked by tho Bronco ctefonso with 2:10 rmnaining. The Irish 
took advantuge of the rchound ser:onds later, but l'llgun's div­ing save thwnrtcd midfinldcr Alan Lyskawa's shot high into the corner. Tlw Irish missed anothnr opportunity with IHSS than a mi1111ln rn111aini11g wlwn c;arci11 S<!lll a cross from t.lrn left si<lnlirw f,Lr right of the goal. 
Notrn Dame's loss is thn first ol' tho season and brings its rneord against Western Michigan to 8-:J-2. Tim Woslern Michigan victory marks the lirsl tinw Lhn Broncos havo comn away with a win al Notrn DnmP. 
Tlin Irish will look to get back 
on a winning track on tlw road, as t fwy takP on Lhn Pillsburgh Panthers in a Big East mulch-up Saturday. 
How To PLAN A PARTY 

Donn social commissioners, club officers and social chairs ... Ifyou plan on serving food at any ofyour events (formals, semi-formals, dances, SYR's, club dinners, cookouts, etc.), you need to be certified in food service cenification. Don't miss the fall training session! Food will be served. 
TONIGHT!!! 
5:00 PM 

MONTGOMERY THEATER 
VENDOR FAIR WILL IM.."l\1EDIATEL Y FOLLOW THE TRAINING SESSION (6 PM -BALLROOM) 
e 

FOR MORE INFO CALL 631-7309, OR VISIT www.11d.ed11l~saol 


Recycle The Observer 
.. 
... 




Boxing Grlove Ping Pong 
,----­
page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, September 8, 1999 
===================================================================================~~======~~ 
Irish 
continued from page 28 
ately when it happened," Davie continued. "And I have also talked to him throughout the weekend and obviously yesterday [Monday] at prac­tice. Bobby told me that he hadn't slept since it happened; he is sick over it. But he took it like a man. lie realized it was something that he made a poor decision doing, so· what you do is you just learn from your experience and move on~" 
The magnitude of Saturday's game contributPd to the enforcement of the excessive celebration penalty. according to Davie. While thf' NPL takes a lenient stance toward play­ers celebrating after touch­downs. the NCAA hierar-chy has decided to crack down on the celr,brations. 
"I think as much as I hate to be tlH' guinfla pig. so to speak, this was a nationaily t~levised game, with huge ramifications, in front of 111,000 people on a big stage all across this coun­try." said Davie. "I am sure college football players and coaches across this country are using that as an example. I hate to be the one to be made an example of. but I do think it is good for college football to eliminate all those things [cel­ebrations]." 
All told, Davie was satisfied by his discussions with Parry. 
"As long as the mechanics were proper, that is all you ask," said Davie. "The play on the goal line-those mechanics were proper. They were stand­ing right there looking straight down on that call. On Bobby Brown's penalty, the mechan­ics were there, that guy was standing right next to him. 
"Anybody that writes and second guesses about all those calls, they weren't standing right there," Davie continued. "They made the call; that is how it is. I am satisfied because they answered the questions I had. That doesn't mean I agree with everything but I am satisfied." 
IRISH NOTES: 
• 
Jarious Jackson did not practice Tur,sday dur, to a sprained big toe he suffered in the fourth quarter of the Michigan game, He will most likely be ready for Saturday against Purdue. 

• 
On the injury front, line­backer Ronnie Nicks (ankle 


sprain) and Mike !\.1cNair 
(sprained arch) arc doubtful for Saturday. Tight end Joh11 Owens (calf pull) will not play. 
• 
With Joey Getherall out for three to four weeks with a sep­arated shouldnr, frrshrnan Julius Jones will handle punt return duties on Saturday. Jones or Terrance Howard will return kickoffs alongside Tony Driver. 

• 
Freshmen wide receiver Jamaar Taylor had an unfor­tunate accident last week. Following a Thursday night study session, Taylor's chain on his bike came undone, flinging him over the handle­bars. Initially, Davie feared Taylor would need surgery on his knee, but at Tuesday's press conference, Davie con­firmed that surgery was not necessary. Taylor is out indefi­nitely. 


INDIANAUNIVERSITY SOUTIIBEND 
CONTINUING EDUCATION 
GRE LSAT 
EXAM REVIEW COURSES 
Be better prepared for the GRE or LSAT and spend less money doing so. IUSB Continuing Education exam reviews are priced hundreds of dollars less than other exam prep programs and offer you proven strategies for attacking even the most difficult questions. 
GRE Review: five Wednesdays, beginning Oct. 13, 6-10 p.m., and Saturday, Nov. 13, 8 a.m.-noon; $389. 
I.SAT Review: two Wednesdays and two Thursdays, beginning Oct. 13, 6-10 p.m.; $289. 
All classes meet on the IUSB campus, 1700 Mishawaka Ave., South Bend. Fees include all materials. 
To register or for more information, call IUSB Continuing Education at 237-4261. 




Not 11mg lx,tts our h1g, _1u1cy l )ouhlc Cheeseburger. It's got the ~re;it taste of flame hrc JI Ii ng anJ ha:-?,();, 111( >rL' hccf than l\k l lc,n;i!J'/ Checschurgcr. 
1Prico and parl1c1pat101• 111..-1 v,iry) 
T tlf.' Huddle la.Fortune S1u,Je·,1 Ceder 


It just tastes better. 
11 l •'I,, •' !,. '.WI )",mq ('.<:''fi it•, lr1, ,I l•·"• t'~ I,\,,!" ' 1l'f , ••••11:,I•::, ·: ••., '· tH '•• • •: ',I 
Wednesday, Sepremher 8, 1999 The Observer . TODAY page 27 
.. 

FOURTH AND INCHES 
Tl11)JK fc,~ ~ t,.i_o~EtJi P»i \1t'«.E, /1,,T TlfE. 1)1N\W<:>
:foRO~I-J, Wrlt\1':, UP, 
:Joe:. E\J£R'{T\\tN6 WC 'JD HALL-C.cl'..E i)(Sf>ISN::,f'.~, OVt:<Z. \-\Ell,.~ fo\::. Tl\E M~N 'l Yo\J,~ e \3E£.\\J 
EIJERY~\\E.l?..E we-E,c,, Tu -:i:. ~ n:11<-E 6~1:-AI Ml/ LW>, Hov" /\NO Pl 1-1~ LF 
\J\vlVE.~s,r'l SdlE::\;.I~ vs ,oi:M.ENrn~s/ wrn..i. cA/.:-1.l, C\/£R. l\.\'E: ~ClOl'-S,oRs. ~fftLL DF r,>,'-( ( lJ p ::r. 'l>JAS\.l.lNG MAc:.l·HNES.. cos, if\( \Jt,.,)IVE'.l<::.ITY IZ\:S Lift. TUI\\~. nt/>,T i"\OC\-\ /v\ORc:!1:.iS CALLEO REVEf.r0t MV flZ\1:}J\')\ Al\/tl Bov IS IT 
1:VI: R Swe~-r ~\ '(I~~/ 
0() ....... ) 
) l 
,; 

Fox TROT (DILBERT HAs MovEo To rHE v1EwP01NT PAGEs.J 

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Patsy Cline, Lem Barney, Clavton Norcross, Sam Nunn, Ann Beattie, Aguri Suzuki, Ron "Pigpen" McKeman 
Happy Birthday: You must follow 1•our heart and do what you do best ,n order to reach your aspirations. You have the staying power to com­plete any project that you believe in and that will lead you to success throughout the year. Your diverse interests may lead you astray unless you recognize what will be to your advantage and what won't. Your numbers: 11, 17, 22, 26, 31, 38 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Be careful if you get together with iriends or relatives. They won't be too pleased if you push your opinions on them. You must allow others to do their own thing. 00000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You'll have problems with money and children Don't give in to the demands being made on you. If you can't afford something, don't buy it. Put your efforts into your work. 00 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Travel 
will spark your interest. You can pick 
up some unusual ideas from the 
places you visit and the sights you 
see. Be sure to take a camera with 
\'Ou. You'll want to document this 
tripOOO0 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will have to be careful when dealing with institutions or authority figures. This is not the best day to travel. Keep \'our mind on what you are doing. 
000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You may want to contribute something to an organization you belong to, but be sure that you can afford to before you 
EUGENIA LAST 
commit to any given amount. You can offer your time instead. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Your temper will flare when dealing with family members if they are not doing what you asked them to. Avoid argu­ments, busy yourseli with your own chores, or go out with friends. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): You need to find a way to stimulate your mind. You are bored with the same old routine and the same old friends. Join clubs that can offer you a new attitude and a new outlook. 0000 
SCORPIO (OcL 23-Nov. 211: Take care of any small but annoying finan­cial problem today. You should take the time to drop in on someone you don't get to see that often. You need a change of pace. 00 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may need some help today. Rely on the one you love for support and affection. Social activities or travel should be in your plans. Don't gam­ble unless yoi. can afford to lose. 
00000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You may want to put in a little extra time at work in order to clean up the backlog that has been mounting. Your efforts will be appreciated and rewarded. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Children will bring you into wntact 
with interesting new people. Your cr,•­
ative flair will be appreciated by oth• 
ers. Family and friends will be sup­
portive of your intentions. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): A 
-• 
member of your family will not bt> easy to deal with. Be compassionate and listen to his or her plea for help. You can find solutions if you us,• your own experiences as a guideline 000 

Birthday Baby: You will respond well to what others have to offer as well ,1s your own vested interests. You have a streng determination to follow a dream and to accomplish your goa!s. You're not one to sit in the sidelines or be satis­fied with less than what you believe will lead to happiness. 
(\leed advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
i 199'-J Uni\'~•rs.11 i'n.•!>-. S\'lllilt",1h· 
-

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS  33  Traffic planner's  
1  Kind of court  array?  
5  Frenzied  38  Siberian river  
10 14  Shoe filler Letter after epsilon  39 40  Mother of 1iberius Bridal shower?  
15 16 17  Disconcert Mold medium Own up to  41 43  Non-prepaid items? Breakfast sizzler  
18  Follower of Daniel  44  Straw in the wind  
19  Brown opponent  45  City near Los  
20  Epitaph for a  Angeles  
bull?  46  "Scent of a  
22  the Roor  Woman" star  
(1963 hit)  50  • - Poetica"  
23  In the open  s1  Mary Kay  
24  Threaten  competitor  
26  Gelcap  s2  Basketball  
alternative  contest  
ao  Outlay  selectors?  
32  Shakespearean  59  Ceramacist's  
sprite  medium  


60 Starters 61 Marine leader? 62 Hoof sound 63 Pony or monkey 84 Hierarchy level 65 Hind's mate 66 Church official 67 Easy-listening 
DOWN 
1 Winter Palace resident 2 Dolly of "Hello, Dolly!" 3 Surmounting 4 Swerves, at sea 5 Elephant driver a Scrub a launch 
1  Tammany tiger's  
creator  
a  Psychic's  
phrase  
9  Personal  
magnetism  
10  Short-range  
basket  
11  Wide open  Puzzle by Richard Silvestri  
12  Stylish shop  33  Vegas rollers  
13  The way things  34  The cart before  
are going  the ores  
21  Wassailer's  35  "Little Caesar"  
song  gangster  
25  Kingston Trio hit  36  Click-on item  
26  Soapstone  37  1V's Warrior  
component  Princess  
Mars, in  39  Summer  
combinations  quencher  
28  Tough spot  42  It may have an  
2&  Sudden  extra electron  
transition  43  Pear type  
ao  Group of witches  45  Introductory  
31  Redding of song  reading  


TOM KEELEY 
A DEPRAVED New WORLD JEFF BEAM 

~VN\)S, l...11:.t. \'< OU.<:£ 
·wo~·n-1-Sl.li:>PoRillvG 
~l!iE lC.E, ~ , l(ES '"\00 MVe-t\ 
BILL AMEND 
.. 
beam.1@nd.edu 


46  Temporary  53  Romance lang.  
phone hookup  54  Take care of  
47  Castilian city  ss  First name in  
48  Decorator's  Communism  
decision  56  Relative of iso­ 
49  Bumbling  s1  Litter member  
so  On the double  56  Learned  

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 
1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
-------------------------------------------------------~-----------------­
Make checks payable to: The Observer .. 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 0 Enclosed is $45 for one semester • 
Name ------------------------­
Address City _______ State ____ Zip.______ 
.. 


Tennis Anyone? 
Venus Williams and Martina Hingis will square offin the semifinals of the U.S. Open. Both were victorious in straight sets on Tuesday.
PORTS 
page 18 
O
THE page 28 BSERVER Wednesday, September 8, 1999 


) 
MEN'S SOCCER
.. 
Notre Dame suffers first loss of season to Western Michigan 
By KERRY SMITH Spom Writer 
Gerick Short gave up his first goal of the season as the Western Michigan Broncos pulled off a close win in overtime against the Notre Dame men's soccer team Tuesday. 
Undefeated entering the match­up, Nutre Dame went on the offen­sive early, but could not capitalize on its scoring opportunities. 
"We couldn't finish our plays," forward Rafael Garcia said. "We tried to keep pounding at the goal and sending the ball wide but we just couldn't finish any opportuni­ties." 
Western Michigan goalkeeper Eric Pogue, who Irish head coach Mike Berticelli called "one of the bAst keApers in the country." turned in a stellar pcrformancP as he managed to withstand an Irish offensive attack that delivered 16 shots on goal. 
"Their keeper was very good," Garcia said. "We had a lot of shots but just couldn't get it in the net." 
At 6-foot-3 and with an impres­sive vertical jump, Pogue made five saves and kept t.he Broncos alive during regulation play. 
The winning goal came less than two minutes into overtime as Western Michigan exploded on offense from the start. Broncos defender Aaron Harvat put the ball in the box, but it was deflected out of bounds bv the Irish defense. Midfielder E~an Fonger took the Broncos' corner kick and after a skirmish in front of the net, defender Rob Zdrodwski booted the ball high into the goal for the win. 
The Irish had many scoring chances and outshot the Broncos 10-1 in the lirst half. Notre Dame's patient attack kept the squad on the offensive for most of the first­half minutes. Working from the backfield, defenders Matt McNew and Andreas Forstner helped keep the Irish on the attack. Forwards Andrew Aris and Garcia combined to deliver several shots on goal. 
"Their team was not too good at all. That wasn't a problem," said Garcia. "We just couldn't get the job done." 
The second half brought a more offense-oriented Western Michigan 
see SOCCER/page 25 

JOHN DAILY/The Observer Notre Dame had a difficult time finishing its chances on Tuesday, as it lost for the first time, 2-1. 
FOOTBALL 
Davie reviews Saturday's close calls 
By TIM CASEY Spans Writer 
Following Saturday's 26-22 loss to Michigan. the Irish faithful questioned the validity of the two penaltir,s in the last two minutes that may have cost the Irish the victory. 
Bob Davie took his gripes a step further. 
"I had a personal phone call with Dave Parry [the Big Ten's supervisor of officials] and we talked about every play in that game that was of' question," said Davie at Tuesday's press conference. "We have had all those discussions but they are not going to change what hap­pened." 
One play that Davie debated was the excessive celebration by Bobby Brown following the two-point that put the Irish ahead 22-19. Brown gestured toward the crowd, drawing a flag from the official. 
"Do I think that Bobby Brown's was exce·ssive in nature? No. Do I think he was taunting in nature? No," said Davie, "But by the letter of the rule he did something he shouldn't do. You hate to have it railed in such a signilirant situation for our football team and for Bobby Brown. Bobby will have to live with that the rest of his life. He didn't make 
"' a proper decision; didn't think through the ramifications of what would happen if he did it. "I talked to Bobby immedi-JOHNDAILY/TheObserver 
Comerback Deveron Harper lunges for Michigan's Anthony Thomas. Thomas was ruled down see IRISH/page 26 on the 1-yard line, but it appeared that his knee touched down on the 3-yard line. 

CROSS COUNTRY 
Belles seek gains in '99 campaign 
By NICOLE HADDAD Sports W.riter 
Saint Mary's cross country 
team is looking forward to a 
strong season this year, as it 
returns seven runners from last 
season, including captains 
Krista Hildebrand and Genny 
Yavello. 
"This season is going to be 
very exciting because we have 
more runners that we've ever 
had," Yavello said. "We have 
the potential to be better than 
we've been before." 
In addition to the. seven 
returnees, the Belles have 
added seven new runners. 
The team is thrilled to have 
such enthusiasm and good atti­
tudes and is anticipating a suc­
cessful season, according to 
coach David Barstis. 
This season the Belles are 
determined to come out on top. 
Last year, Saint Mary's finished 
sixth in the MIWA as a Division 
III school. 
'Tm excited for a big team; 
that means more competition," 
said senior runner Bridget 
Heffernan. 
With a roster consisting of 16 
unfaltering runners and lhe 
lnadership and guidance of 
Barstis, Saint Mary's will open 
on Friday at Aquinas College. 
"If we stay healthy, we'll be 
very good," Yavcllo said. 
The Saint Mary's cross-coun­
try team's only home meet of 
the season will be on Sept. 17 
when the Relles compete at 
National Catholics at Notre 
Dame. 

at St. John's
at Purdue Volleyball at Ohio Western Sunday, 1 p.m. 
Saturday, 2:30 p.m. 

SPORTS {I ~ Friday, 3:30 p.m. 
ATA 

Volleyball vs. Kentucky Cross country at Valparaiso 
at Pittsburgh 
. 

Saturday, 2 p.m. Saturday, 10 a.m
Saturday, I p.m.
Pi,

GLANCE • 







