The Lewinsky affair continues Cluh Recognition Banquet 
Tuesday

¦ Voices of Faith Gospel Choir came away with the contempt of court in the Paula Jones case. 
¦ A U.S. District judge found Clinton in Club of the Year Award last night as Notre Dame honored several student organizations. 
APRIL 13, News• 9 
News•3 
1999 


THE 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII N0.121 
¦ CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
Council embarks on new term 
By TIM LOGAN !Jy news of' pari11tals revisions which alroady the prevailing practice in N,·w, Editor the group had recommended at its most halls." March 21) meeting. The group had Matt Mamak, chief' of staff for the 
Tlw C:a1111H1s 1.ifo Council (CLC) votnd to rr.commend that the Ollice Ollice of the President, and chair of kickPd oil' its nnw tnrm Monday with or Student Affairs standardize ruins tho CLC Community Lifo Committee inLroclurtions. housl\k1wµing and rng,irding 24-hour space during during last year's term, was happy rwws of minor adjustnwnts to Urn hrnaks and parietals lm nxtendcd to aboul lhe news. UniVPrsity's purintals ''I'm ecstatic about policy. this," he said or the 
MPmlwrs WP rt• proposal's acceptance.
'THERE IS VIRTUALLY UNANIMOUS SUPPORT l-ROM
oplimislk auoul tlw The resolution had 
C'Olllillg y1iar, and SIU­THE RECTORS FOR THE RESOLUTION DEALING lrncn passed by Urn dt•llt body J>rPsidPnl Student Senat1• and the 
WITH THE AVAILABILITY Of SOCIAL SPACE DURING
!\lirnh Murphy t>xprPss,•d hop(! thal BREAKS.' till' group would lw Sll('('f'Ssl"ul. 
''I'm n•ally looking forward to Lliis VPar and LlwrP an• i~lt•as llwl l'v1• had. idt•as IHlUIH'illg around in tlw ("OllllllilttH\S 
a11d idf'as rrom rww nwmbers," said ~lurphy. "I wanl lo SP!! if WP can gd thPs1• lhrough and 1-{l'l StudPnt . \ffairs lo look al ll11•m rnrnfully and 
· gi•t so1111• things approwd." 
,\mong _th1• things :\lurphy plamwd l.<1 work 1111 i11d11dP AT~I plac:Pml'nl. irwrPasing 24-lunrr span!, rl1!ari11g up Lh1~ lt1l.uri11g prncpss and stan­dardizil1g dPtPX r(•gulations. 
Hf'lmning mPmlwrs WP!'!' b11oy1•d 
CLC: and came out of the parietals survey distributed by tho Senatn earlier this 

PA'/11/CM O'JMl?A semester. lie expressed Vfct,-l'RE'il!JE\'T FOH ST/1[)[:iVT AffAIRS hope student leaders 
2 a.m. on Junior l'arnnts WPekend. Vic(' prnsidenl !'or Student Affairs Patricia O'Hara wrote a letter to llw 
C:U: agrneing with tlw proposal. 
"Tlwrc is virtually unanimous supporl l'rom Um n1cl!;rs l'or the ros­olulion dealing with tlw availability of' social spac<' during breaks, as wnll as for tlw rnsolution requesting 2 a.111. parintals during JPW," O'llara wrote. "lndm,d. these reso­lutions seem to rnqunst what is would continue to work 
on parietals rnvisions. 
"(;etting consistnncy across cam­pus is what's important. and Patty O'llaru acknowledged this in the let­t11 r," he said. "I hope the CU: will gnt into some tougher parietals issues in the coming y<mr." 
Another proposal calling for pari­etals to b() pushed back to 9 a.m. on football Saturdays was given approval by O'I Iara, but, because it must I.Jc added to du Lac, the 
see CLC/ page 4 
WWW. ND.EDU/~OBSERVER 

Gingrich to give speech on the information age 
By TIM LOGAN 
News Editor 
Newt Gingrich. former Speaker of the !louse of Representatives and architect of the 1994 "Contract with America." will talk about thn challenges and opportunities of lifo in the information age today at 
Stopan Centor. 
Organizers are looking forward to the event, which has been heavily promoted, and anticipate a good talk. 
"I think it's nxciting," said Adam Hieck, ideas and issuns coordinator for the Student Union Board (SUB) which is sponsoring 


the event. "We'll get a lot of pno-Gingrich pin to comfi and sec him talk." 
As of '.\fonday, SUB had sold approximatnly 1,000 tickets to the nvent at Str.pan Ccntnr, which can hold 2,000. Organizers are nxpccting a larg.-walk-up crowd, according to Hieck. 
SUB contracted Gingrich for the engagement through the Washinj.{Lon Sp(rnkers Bureau, which represents him and a widn range of' high-profile lec­turers. Under llrnir contract with tlrn Burnau. SUB could not disclose the honorarium f'or Gingrich. 
see GINGRICH / page 4 

A NEW TERM, THE SAME QUESTIONS 
'/'his is the second of a three-part series examining the role of student govern men/. al Notre /Jame. 




Recruitment of campus leaders sparks optimism 

Obseiver File Photo 

Student body president Micah Murphy (left) and vice president Michael Palumbo (right) will focus on recruiting new leaders for student government during their administration. 
By FINN PRESSLY 
Assist.int News Editor 
Tho dfoctivnness of student government on 

campus oft«)Il  boils down  to wlrnthcr  or  not  
pot(rntial campus leader s am  able  to  get  
involvr.d.  

That very issue has drawn attr.ntion from many critics on campus. who have question,id whether or not student government is effective in recruiting a varied collection of student leaders. ratlrnr than just the so-called "clique" of existing members. 
Prnsidenlial candidato Luke White was among thosn whtJ strcssml the need for new faces in student govornmnnL According to White. the responsibility falls on both stud(ints and governmonl officials. 
"Twn ways of improving it would be to con­vince more student leaders lo apply and to havn the pimple who appoint tlrn non-elected leaders look more to studnnt leaders and less lo insiders," lrn explained. 
lnnltrating the inner core of' student 1-{ov,irn­nwnl loadnrs was a common lhnmc that rev,ir­ber~tod in many campaigns this year. 
"It's tlrn sanrn old cliqun. I havnn't s1wn many new faces iuvolved," said S1!a11 Dt)sdrnne, whose tick11t placr'd l'il'th overall. 

Student body president Micah Murphy also said that he and vicn prosident Michael Palumbo havn set their sights on including stu­dents from all backgrounds and interests. 
Their motivation for change stems from a roctrnt meeting government officials had with Chandra Johnson, assistant to the president of the Universitv. 
"She starlc·d off by looking around the room and asked, 'What's the lirst thing you notice'?"' Murphy said. "It was homogonous." 
Following that meeting, Murphy and 

Palumbo havn pledged to nxpand lh1• rnprn­snntation on campus. 
"We want to draw upon dilTnrent studnnls from di1Term1l parts of' campus f'rorn dil'l"Prnnt parts oftlrn country." Murphy said. 
Murphy also slressed that nXJl()l'i<rncP can come in any form, not just govPrnnrnnt posi­tions. 
"!We want! to draw on our nxperi1111ce, and also draw on tlrn experinncr. f'rom lpnoplnl out­side formalized government." lw said. "It's about getting the wnll-roundnd st11d1111t." 
Keough llall senator and Campus Lif'P Council nrnmlrnr Brian O'Do11oghu11 nxprnss11<l optimism about lhn incrPasing involvP1111ml o[' students in their govr.rnrmrnt. dnspite its of'tPn dnmanding needs. 
"It's a thankless job. You only 1-{et recogni­tion when you scrnw up.•1t can hP very sln•ss­f'ul." O'Donoghtw said. "IL's a lrr.11w11dous sac­rifice for anyo,rn to gnt involvnd in studnnl govornmnnt." 
I le acknowlndgod that making llrn first stiip to get involved of'tnn d11lers qualiffod students from becoming involvr.cl. 
"In a lot or ways, student govnrnnrnnt is vnry dosod," O'Donoghtw said. "You have to want to do tlw work lo gel involvnd. You ntHHI to make the first inHial action to gnt involwd. t\ lot or people don't know about it.·· 
()'Donoghue also pruisnd tlw quality or stu­dents that havo lrnconrn involved in stud11nt government. 
"The peopln who ar11 thcrn are there bPCause lhey love this University," he said. "They arc them because they want lo do thn bm;t they can for the University. They really love the University and they love the stu­dents." 
see GOVERNMENT/ page 4 

page 2 The Observer• INSIDE Tuesday, April 13, 1999 
¦ INSIDE COLUMN 


RTPs and Woo-Woos 
Notre Dame has a dirty little secret. I almost hestitate to mention it, lest I tarnish lhe bright shine on the golden dome and lower our U.S. News and World Report rank­
ing by daring to air it out, by I cau't let it pass by anymore. I have lo let the secret out. 
There are some darn annoying people here. 
Not just the run-of­the-mill irritating peo­ple who walk really, really slowly, seven across. on the side­





utside the Dome 
Compiled frum U-Wire reports 

Southern Cal will sue Kravitz for not performing in concert 


Laura Petelle 
A5.si,ram Managing Editor
walk on a muddy day when you're late for discussion and your TA is taking attendance, but whole classes of people who raise annoy­ance to an art form. 
• SDH HTPs 
You know who they are: the South Dining Hall Random Trajectory Persons. Those peo­ple who stop at the salad bar, and then -no, wait -wander olT towards the sweet 'n' sour chicken, but -oh, wait a sec -mosey over to the deli sandwiches, where they ­hang on -walk off to the pasta bar. They gaze off into space, and change direction with no warning and no reason. They aren't QUITE·sure what they want to eat, and so they wander around like they're either asleep or stoned. They're positive they're the only people in the dining hall and never bother to move over when someone else approaches. This wasn't such a problem before they re-did SDH, back when there were only three meal choices and they were all in a row. But now the SDH RTPs are a danger to themselves and everyone else. 
• The Precision "Woo-Woo" Squad 
These are the freshman girls who live at the other end of my hall and have room par­ties. Weeknight, weekend, early, late; these distinctions do not matter to the Precision Woo-Woo Squad. They only own two CDs ­the Spice Girls and the Grease Megamix. They play these two CDs over and over while freshpeople mix and mingle over cheap liquor. And whenever they get to the part where the song goes, "You're the one that I want!" seconds later you can hear, from any­where in the dorm, "Woo! Woo! Woo!" as the Precision Woo-Woo Squad springs into acton. God forbid they let a chance to Woo go by. What's a party without Woo-Woos? 
• People with Only the Most Tenuous Grasp on Reality 
This includes many subgenres, such as 
Professors Who on Monday Assign 80 Pages 
of Reading for Wednesday (because of 
course that's the only class you have work 
for), People Who Complain When Their 
Horoscopes Are Wrong, Administrators and 
the Two Freshmen Gentlemen in Full Notre 
Dame Regalia Whom I Saw at Osco Buying a 
Box of 120 Condoms. I have only two words 
for these young men: Get real. (Unless they 
are planning on using them as balloons, in 
which case I have another two words for 
them: Grow up. Or maybe: Comparison shop. 
Real balloons would be cheaper.) 
I know there are more out there, such as 
the People Who Invented the "Wah-Wah" 
sound for the DART System, but I'm limited 
to 500 words. 
So just remember: next time you see some­one stop at random in SDH, slap him. Unless, of course, it's me. 1can never decide between the sweet 'n' sour chicken and the sauteed chicken breast. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not nece:,sarily those ofThe Obsemer. 
¦ TODAY'S STAFF  
News  
Chris Shipley  Scene  
Brad Umiedr  Jenn Zatorski  
Kare Steer  Graphics  
Sports  Joe Mueller  
Brian Kessler  Lab Tech  
Viewpoint  Mary Leffers  
Lila Haughey  

Th, Obmver (USPS ,99 2-4000) is published Monday chr.,ugh Friday except durini; exam ,nd vacation f)<'riods. The Observer i, a member of the A.«oci,reJ Pre>i. All reproduction rights att rescrvcd. 

LOS ANGELES 
The University or Southern California will lile a lawsuit this week against rocker Lenny Kravitz, who failed to show up for Saturday's Springfcst concert, which more than 5,000 people attended. 
Kravitz will be sued for breach of contract. programmers said. 
Barrett Reiff, concerts director, said that he was not offered any reason for Kravitz not performing: However, Haquel Tolmaire, who acted as Kravitz's agent for Springfest and signed a contract for him early last week, said she notified Reiff on Wednesday night that Kravitz would not be the headliner for Springfest. 
Tolmaire is a friend of Kravitz' girl­friend, not his agent nor representa­tive. She said she initially agreed to have Kravitz perform at USC only after someone by the name of Jeremy Larner, who is not a USC student, told her on March 30 that Kravitz was needed to play a benefit concert for children. Tolmaire said Kravitz would play even though he was already scheduled to play at the Hescda Country Club as a favor to his girl­friend. 

She said Larner then pressured her to sign a contract on Monday. After signing the contract Wednesday she took it to her lawyer, who then made revisions. Larner told Tolmaire that the revisions would not be imple­mented, she said. She called USC Wednesday but was told someone would call her back. 
After nobody from USC rnturned her calls, Tolmairn said that slw received a phone call from Larner, who told her that USC was avoiding booking agents to save mom~y. 
Reiff said he lrnard rumors Thursday among agents and booking managers in the music industry 'that Kravitz would not be coming to USC. 
Reiff then r,alled everyone he knew that had any relationship with Kravitz to find out if they could confirm the rumors. Reiff said that be called Tolmaire who assured him that Kravitz would he coming. llowever Reiff said he continued to hear mixed reports from others. 
"In an industry like this one, you have to follow up on rumors until they are completely put to rest," Heiff said. "Sometimes you can tell wlwn somf'­body is full of it." 

¦ Gt01mE WASHINGTON U!\llVERS!TY Fertility clinics target college students 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 
Fertility clinics are increasingly targeting college stu­dents for egg and sperm donations through advertise­ments in college newspapers -a trend some medical pro­fessionals say could be exploitating students. Potential health risks aside, students may find the financial incen­tives to donate often are too enticing to ignore. Some fer­tility clinics offer donors as much as $3,000, said Kyla Brownhill, representative of the Virginia-based Fertility and Reproductive Health Center. "We like to target young women in the age range of 21 to 32 years of age," Brownhill said. "College newspapers are our primary source." "I personally feel it's not a good idea to advertise for donors in college newspapers because there are risks, especially for females, since the process is more difficult," said Isabel Goldenberg, director of George Washington Student Health Services. 
¦ NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY Conference addresses Internet addiction 
EVANSTON, Ill. 
College students have been fighting alcoholism for years, but the '90s have brought a new addiction -the Internet, said Kimberly Young, University of Pittsburgh assistant pro­fessor of psychology, Friday at the third annual Networking Conference. Young, who considers herself a "cyberpsycholo­gist," led 40 college students and professionals in a discus­sion of the Internet's positive and negative effects on college campuses. The one-day conference was sponsored by the Chicago Consortium for Prevention, an organization that links health professionals and Chicago college students. Internet addiction is a serious problem that needs to be addressed on college campuses, said Young, founder and director of the Center for Online Addiction. "There is an over-the-line format, and people can abuse the Internet," Young said. "It's a sort of diversion, and they can take it to excess." 
¦ MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY Trustees institute riot policy 
EAST LANSING, Mich. 
The Michigan State University board of trustees voted 5­1 Friday to institute a temporary riot policy, effective immediately, that gives MSU the power to suspend rioting students. The board tabled a general off-campus conduct policy at its meeting, but will continue to discuss that pos­sibility. The policy on riot behavior becomes permanent April 30, 2001, unless the academic governance system proposes another policy to the board by that time. It does not apply to students charged in the March 27-28 riot. The policy defines a riot as "five or more persons, acting in concert, who engage in violent conduct and thereby inten­tionally or recklessly cause or create a serious risk of causing public terror or alarm." The policy applies to actions on campus, in local government jurisdictions, on other college campuses and in local jurisdictions adjacent to those campuses. 
¦ PmNCHON UNIVERSITY 
Nude Olympics receives final ban 
PRINCETON, N.J. 
The saga of the Nude Olympics drew to a close this weekend as the university board of trustees voted to endorse the prohibition of the event. "The trustees endorse the recommendation of the Committee on the 'Nude Olympics' that the university should ban the 'nude olympics,' broadly defined," a statement released yester­day by the trustees says. "The trusfoes expect this policy to be actively communicated and vigorously enforced." The trustees approved the proposed one-year suspension for future participants in the event, according to the state­ment. They also endorsed the special disciplinary process whereby Nude Olympics participants would be subject to review by the dean of student life rather than appearing before the full Committee on Discipline. Under this plan, a special sub-committee of the disciplinary committee would hear appeals. 


¦ LOCAL WEATHER ¦ NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeathe~ forecast for noon, Tuesday, Apr. 13. 


Tuesday ~ 61<' ;;18i 
. _-., -::-:..:'~ 1tf:il;:~::;/i~t~;:~ 
Wednesday m.ao. 
,o Thursday Friday,': ~,': 
..a.....a..
..........
J 
C 1999 AccuWe1ther, Inc. COLD WARM' STATIONARY 
P/IUUft.

,.~-J':::e··'
Satum~y ® © . CJ, ~ D E]. Em. ;) ~~ @'~ 
~-5'./". ............. ,/ '':./:-"lgh LOW Showen Rain T•llOtlYI• FlurrlH Snow le• sunnv Pl. Cloudy ClolJdy 
Vi• Auoc,a,.ct Pres, 

Atlanta 70 44 Hartford 53 34 Orlando 78 57 Boston 50 38 Juneau 41 33 Richmond 67 48 Chicago 62 36 Leon 70 47 St. Louis 63 41 S~',; T-~f~ RaHJ ~;,;~~: ~~~--,; -Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ 
Detro~ 60 33 Manhattan 70 43 Taos 59 35 
Evansville 67 40 New Orleans 81 56 VermiUion 73 38
VlaM30<iattld_ Graph_ 


Tuesday, April 13, 1999 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


CCC honors campus groups 
Hy MIKE ROMANCI-IEK 
Nt·w.\ \XIritn 
Voic·1·s of' 1:nitl1 (;ospPI Choir camP away with <:lub of' llw YPar ho11i,rs at I !in s1H:ond annual Cluh HPrognition fl a n q II c L spo 11 so r C! cl hy t hn Club Coordinalion Council and tlw SL11dP11t ,\rliviliPs Of'ficP. 
The Cluh ol' tllf' Y,•ar /\ward is givPI! lo tlw duh that con­1riht1tPs thP 11111st to stud1H1t Iii',• al Nolr<' lla1rw. 
"W,, try to idP11til'y a group lhal has madP a consislonl {" O11 t rih\l ( iO I 1 tII tIJ (' SI ll d(\ 11 ( hody OVPr tlw cours,~ of' lhn )'Pill" and nut just 01w big PVl'nl." said Hyan !larding, Club <:oorclinator and Chairman 111' llil\ Club Coordination Counril (CCU 
VoirPs of l;aith offirnr J\pril Davis also n·rPiv,·d llouors as Uin Ofli1·pr ol' tlw YPar l'or s1w­rial i11Lnrnsls l'luhs. 
TIH• CC:L dividns club pro­gramming i11t11 f'ivP divisions: acadP111ir. athlPLil', nthnit:, sl'l'virP/sorial arlion and spn­l"ia I i11tPr1~st. Four awards, Cluh J\dvisor of' tlll' Yt'ar, Club 0 ITir Pr of th I' Y n a r. Outsta11ding Club l'rugra111 a 11 rl CI ll h o I' 1lw YCH r a r I' awardPd to organizations in 1•arlt of' tll!' f'ivl' divisions. 

From tlw fivn winiwrs of' each cntogory an ovc\rall wirurnr is sPhictnd. 
Tho ovnrnll winner for Club Advisor of' lhu Year was pro­fossor of' cnginncring David Kirknn from Habit f'or llumanity. 
"\Vo look for faculty and staff who havn n•ally madP a significant rnnt_ribution abovn and hnyoncl what thn clubs 1\xpnd f'rorn tliern," said !larding of thn award. 
Tlw nquostrian 1·lub's Katin \Vagnnr won Club Officor of' tlrn ·Ypar. IIPr cluh advisor prais1\d lwr in tho nomination !(:ltPr, "Af'lnr 11 years of' club oflfrnrs who havn t'.omn and gone I would rank this individ­ual as the best club officer I havn ever had th<' privilegn to work with." 
The 1\1arch l'or l.if'P, orga­11iz1•rl by Lim Hight lo Lifo, won Out.stai1d ing Club Program. This aware! rncognizns an i1Jdividual club program f'or making an outstanding contri­bution Lo student lif'n at Nolrn llamn. 
Thn Asian Amnrican Association also wnn mult.ipln awards. Ol'l'icnr JackiP Woo was s1\kctl'll as O!Tirer ol' lhn YNtr in tlw ct.hnic division and .'\sian J\llurn, the club's annu­

al fashion show. won Outstanding Club Program in tlrn same division. 
;\ward winnor!-i will have th1dr names engraved on a pnrpntual µlaqun in LaFortunn Student Center 
"The awards are designed lo improvn awarerwss of' clubs and thnir activities while: simultaueously rncognizing individuals who havn made st1bst.a.ntial invPsl.ments of' limn and offort into the d1wel­
opm PnL of tlwir rnspocliv11 organizations," said llarding. "Whil1i tlrnre ar<\ many high prol'ile organizations such as llabital for Humanity and La Alianza, there are also many other groups that dosnrve to be recognized." 
CharlPs Lennon, cxec-utive dirnctor of the Nolro Dame J\lumni J\ssociation was llw knynol!\ sp11aknr !'or the ban­quet. I le praised tlrn club offi­cnrs f'nr their detlir.ation and IPadership and encouragnd llrnm lo stay involved in Notre Dame activities through llrn Alumni J\ssociation. ll1\ also offered words of' advice for the amlience. 
"What we am communicates rn urh more eloquently and persuasively than what we say or c\'cn what wo do," he said, 
l¦I
(l\MPUSMINISTRY 
New scholarships honor Irish envoy 
By SHANNON GRADY 
New, Writer 
Elcvon scholarships have been eslablislwcl by thn U.S./lreland Alliance in honor of former U.S. Senate majority leader Georgo Mitclwll. 
Trina Vargo, f'ornwr fornign policy advisor to Senator Ted Kemrndy, announced llw schol­arships on March 11, in honor of tile senator's contribution lo the peace procoss in Northern Ireland. 
The Mitchell scholarships will allow American students one year of post-graduate study at universities through­out the lkpublic and Nortlrnrn Ireland. Th<iy will be awarded to stud1rnls who havn shown nxcPilencn in acndomics as well as potontial for 1<1adnrshiµ. 
Vargo oxpocts the Mitclrnll scholarships to acquire lhe prestige or Oxford's Hhodes Scholarships. 
The U.S./lreland Alliancn seeks to cnntinun and nourish tlrn rdalionship between these two countries through the Mitdrnll sd10larships. 
"llistorically, tlrn two coun­tries have always had a very good relationship hecausn of' their strong links, but we have to look lwyoncl a lime whnn families like the Kenneclys will be there to ensure Ireland is kept nnar tho lop of' tlrn U.S. political agenda," Vargo said. 
"At the mnn11ml wn am very fortunate lo have a president liko Bill Clinton who has taken such a personal intnrest in Irish matters," Vargo said. "But them is no guarantee that 
l'uturn presidnnls will do tlw same." 
"If' we o!Tnr f'ulurn lnad(\rS and JH\oplci with inl'lu1\ncn il clrnncn to study in lrnland and develop an internst and knowl­nclg11 or Irish politics and rnl­turn, we arn laying t.hn ground­work l'or cO-ll(Wralion and understanding lrntween f'utun\ gencrations of' lnadors," slw said. 
"l'arl of' the reason for th,, vory positivn relationship betwonn l'rnsidm1t Clinton and Tony Blair is because Clinton during his tinw as a llhodl!s Scholar built an intnrest and affinity which has lastnd," Vargo said. 
Tho U.S./lrish J\lliance, arr Irish lobby group, was found­n d by Va r go i II I <J 9 8 . T h P alliance was fornwd in order to nslablish a pnrmarwnt prns­nnce in Washington to repre­sent Irish intnrnsls. 
Vargo worked for Snnalor Konnndy for 11 years. She spent thn past fiv11 ynars as his fornign policy advisor and worked exclusively on Irish mat.tors. Sim was also tlrn ron­d u it lrntwenn Gnrry ;\dams, Neil O'Dowd and tlrn Whitn llousn during ;\dams' strugglc> to obtain an ;\nwrican visa. 
"It was at that limn that wn rnaliz11d that lhert! was no organization, no national net­work wo could go to prnss our case with th11 White llousn," she said. 
"Wlwn you think tlrnrn am 44 million Irish Am11rkans it's extraordinary thal lhern hasn'l bc1111 a national inlluenc1i lobby until now," Vargo said. 


¦ CORRECTIONS 
• 
In Moday's edition of The Observer, Michael Palumbo was identified as the Student Union vice president. Ile is the student body vice president. 

• 
An article in Monday's Observer stated that student body president Micah Murphy had served as secretary of tho Class of 2000 during his sophomore year. Murphy was class vice presi­dent during the 1997•1998 term. 


" An article in Friday's Observer failed to list Megan SchilIM and Ann Searle as co-founders of Teamwork for Tomorrow. It also stated that there were 35 positions for reading tutors avail­able next fall. There will be 24 spots open. 
The Observer regrets the errors. 
Bookstore Basketball is here! Read The Observer for all the highlights. 

The ObseJ,4VeJ,4 is 
acceptiV\9 

applicatioJ11s foJ,4 C\JI\ 
assistaJ11t Web 
admi JI\ istJ,4atoJ,4, 

Please coJ11tact (:::.J,4ik at 
1-8839 foJ,4 W\OJ,4e 

iV\formatioJ11, 


page 4 The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, April 13, 1999 
CLC 
continued from page 1 
change must be approved by the officers of the University. She wrote she would forward the proposal to the oflicers and will communicate their decision to the Council in the fall. 
In other CLC news: 
• Members voted to add a Gender Issues Committee, establish the Bylaws Committee at ,Hi hor status and do away with the Undergraduate Finances Committee. 
Members hoped that tho formation of a committee devoted to gender concerns would help to focus progress on the sub­ject, which had previously been dealt with through a variety of other CLC groups. 
Tlw revision of CLC bylaws by the 13oarcl of Trustees at its May meeting will 

GovernIDent 
continued from page 1 
Student organizations also report that studont government is very rncep­tive to hearing opinions from campus groups. 
"We're all working in the same direc­tion," said Progressive Student Alliance (PSJ\) membN Madolyn Orr. 

Gingrich 
continued {rom page 1 
Reick said. However, it is being paid for by ticket sales. SUB funds and money !'rom the office of' Student Activities. 
Heick was happy with the opportuni­ty to have Gingrich address Notre Dam[) students. 
"We f'igured he was a good person to comn and talk about politics, why he left llrn llouse, and what he thinks about politics," said Rieck. 
Gingrich will discuss his study of a variety of issues facing our world today and the ways in which improving infor­mation technology bring different aspects of life and society together. 
Tickets are $6 for students from 




The Notre Dame Financ:& Forum 
WiH be presenting discussions of how the ELECTRCfUC EXCHRnGES work and what their impact will be on the financial industry 
Tuesday,,...•pril 13,..<:l999 
h:w•»l:-,.•:),, •' ',,, • ,, , . •,•::.,,,:,: ':: '',, •,:••: • 
:1/__ -,~--,/··\/F~t.it.·' 


In 102·DeBartolo 

From 4:30-6:·Q,O 
..,:-·\Jfrf:. . 




Come listen to Scott McGregor from Goldman Sachs and Vince Bianco of Andersen Consulting. 
bring closure to the work of the Hylaws Committee. That group has spent the past year revising the ordinances that govern the CLC and determine its make­up. If the Trustees approve these changes, the committee will not need to remain a standing group, for it will have '--"--'-"-':...L.-"-" accomplished its task, members said. 
The one supporter of the standing com­mittee, Keough Hall senator Brian O'Donogbue, noted that the CLC has undergom~ significant change in the past two years and there is still a need for a committee to oversee that change. 
The UndPrgraduate Finances Committee, chaired by O'Donoghue last term, was unanimously agreed to have also accomplished its goals, and was dis­banded. 
Committee memberships will he decid­ed before the next CLC-meeting April 26, and chairs will be elected shortly. 
• Members approved Steven Sanchez as CLC parliame.ntarian and Luciana Reali as cu: secretary. 
She said that student government has been V<'ry r<'ceptivn to lotting PSA rep­rescntatives address meetings of the Student Senate, such as Aaron Kreicler's rccnnt presentation regard­ing Notre Dame's commitment to elimi­nating sweatshop labor. 
"They've been very receptive, if noth­ing else," Orr said. "That's their job, to be open to student opinion." 
nm Logan contributed to this report. 
Notrci ·Dame, ·saint Mary's and Holy Cross and $10 for thf1 general public. The event begins at 7 :30 p.m. 
Gingrich will also be signing copies of his recent book "Lessons Learned the Hard Way: A Personal Report," from 
4:15 p.m. until 5:15 p.m. at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
Gingrich, Time Magazine's "Man of the Year" in 1995, served as Speaker of the House from 1994 until 1999, when he stepped down after the November elections. His term was marked by controversy and bitter par­tisan divisions, but he has also been credited with creating t.he first bal­
Apple Education Store:
anced budget in several decades. 
www.apple.com/education/store Authorized 
Gingrich represented a district in sub­
Value Added Reseller

1.800780.5009
urban Atlanta, Georgia for 20 years. He has also taught history and envi­ronmental studies at West Georgia 
01999 Ap[l1c Comrim:r, Inc. All ri!,:ht.~ rL-scrvL'tl Apple, 1hc Apple logti, .111<1 Pt1v.'C:rl~1ok .ire lrJdcmark.,; nf Apple Computer, Inc., reJ,.:1Slcrcd in the U.SA. and Olhcr cuumnci­
College and has written five books. 
•J\:rformancc complri.••ons ire haset.l on m11:nurk fmq~L'f t~l. 
Ayacht for the price ofadinghy. 


Now you can get it all without paying for it all. Because the PowerBook® G3 is more affordable than ever (see below). Awesome Pentium-crushing power.* Massive 14.1" screen. Endless adaptibility. All of which can help you work faster and more efficiently. Leaving you more time to stop and smell the ocean breeze. Come in and test the waters. 
PowerBook® G3 prices have been slashed up to $700 with prices starting at $1799.00 Available Now. 
Call now for Apple's special ND student offers ! OIT Solutions Center Room 112 Computing/Math Bldg Phone: (219) 631-7477 (1 for sales) 
Nursing 
Together for a Healthy Tomorrow 
The professionals of Lakeland Regional Health System each contribute a range of experiences, ideas and special talents. We are located 90 minutes northeast of Chicago, IL along the beautiful shoreline of Lake Michigan. Included in our system are acute care facilities, outpa­tient sites, hdmecare agencies and continuing care centers. Combined, .our employees have made us the preferred health care provider throughout the southwest Michigan area. Because each new member of our team makes us 
stronger,  we  welco,ne  you  to  explore the following  
opportunities:  
•Registered Nurses•  

Are you an RN seeking career advancement? Join the dedicated staff at our 270-bed acute care facility in St. Joseph, Ml. Full-time and part-time opportunities are available. Candidates must possess a Michigan license and strong assessment, planning, i.niplementation, and evalua­tion skills. 
In return for your skills and dedication, Lakeland Regional Health System offers opportunities for profes­sional growth, competitive salaries, comprehensive benefits packages, and retirement program. For consideration, send 
your resume to: 
Vicki Geiger, Professional Recruiter ; 1234 Napier Avenue St.Joseph, MI 49085-2158 Phone: (616) 982-4898 --~ Fax: (616) 982~4971 E-mail: vgeiger@lakelandregional.org 

Visit our web site at~ www.lakelandhealth.org 
Equal Opportunity Employer 
11111 Lakeland RegionalI= Health System 


Tuesday, April I1, 1999 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 

Restaurant gives food to customers with tattoos 
SAN Fllt\NC!SCO 

S1m11• pP11plP will dn anyt hi11g for a frnl' hul'­
rilo. :\ MPxira11 rPstaurant oll'crnd a lil',•tinw 
111' fn•I' lt11wlH•s to 1111yrnw willing to gPt a lat­
1110 of its logo. Jimmy tlw Corn Man, a som­
lw,•ro-\,·1•ar·ing-m11riwhi lm_v riding a bJ11zi11g 
n,nwo!1 .lust show 11w cashiPr thi. l.aUoo ­
any si,..-. on any part ol' llw body -and gl't a 
l'r1·" meal. Sinr,· word of Lhn promotion got. 
out six 1111111ths ago, :~<J pPoph• haw braVPcl t lw 
lid1110 11PPdlt> for a pPrlllilllf'lll coupon ;1l Casa 
Sa11clu•1. "Sonw 1wopll' do it l'or tlw lov1\ of Llw 
arl. I'm cloi11g it !'or IIH' lwnr and I.he ta<·.o,'' 
said st:1rvi11g art stud;-nt Thomas .ludd. :{I. 
p,wing 1wrv1111sly Monday lwforP g<•Uing tlw 
l;illoo his lirsl -on his right calf./\ murh­
lal1tu1Pi1 Cuid11 lfrPnnPr has a coast1•r-si1.P 
Corn \-Inn Plllhlazorwd undPr his right armpil. 
llw 0111\ 0111•11 spari' hi' had IPfL "Actu.dly 
1•vl'l'_vh11d~-·s dug it. <'Vl'll my mom." lw said. 
Magician spends week in underwater coffin 
NEW YOllK 

Sf'V('ll days al'lPr IH• Pnt1!rPd a transpar­1' ll l col'l'in Sl'l six fed into tlrn ground, 111agic·ia11 llavid Blaine• was lwlpml out today looking fit but slightly wobbly. IlundrPds of' s1wclators chnernd wlwn tlrn :l-lon tank of wal1ir that covnred his sen­through 1·Df'fi11 was lifkd and Blaine sat up a 11 d s 111 il1• d . " I s aw s om n t hiII g v n r y prophPtic· ... a vision ol' PVl'ry rac1!, 1wery rt•ligion. t>Vl'ry agP group banding togl'lh­"r. and that rnadP all this wnrthwhilP," lw told lhf' nowd. Tlw shirtlPss, tattooed magirian donnNI sunglasses and stcpptid 1111slf'11Clily out of tlw col'lin. aided by sncu­rily pPopl1•. 1111d was takPn lo a doctor for a d1nkup Tlw ('.()!Tin had givnn him only about six inclH's ol' !wad room and two i1id1Ps 011 f'ach sidn. 
Singer alleges robbery 
LONDON 

Tllf' singl'r l'nrnwrly known as Cal Stnvens says MacPdonian bordnr guards sto!n $:n,ooo from him as Im t:ross<id into Albania lo distrihulP aid to Kosovar r-ef'ugncs. Tim l.011don-hasPd si11g1•r, now namnd Yusuf Islam. told llw British Broadcasting Corp. on Saturday that tlw guards took llrn money art,•r inilially rdusing to allow his party to Pnlf•r Albania. "Wti'rn absolutely furious," lw told tht> BBC:. "Obviously evnrybody knows why w1•rl' lwrn. lo h1ilp lhosn pnopln who haw lragirnlly gmw through this and who am going through this probl11m of nth­11,r /'.J111111si11){, and Llwy've robbnd us." Hl'!'orl' 1•ntPri11g Albania, Islam said he had be1H1 distributing money Lo peopln in MacPdonia sharing tlrnir homos with the rl'f'ugPns, who arc\ lkeing Smb reprnssion. 

Composite
+ 10.28 
Volume: 

+165.67 71S,700,000 
VOLUME LEADERS 

i tHrfl'tl!\IX l'H Kl R ''1, t 11 \NW SPA.lN CRlfl 
OU.I.( OMfllJltlt !Ill.I -'I.Ill. -1.7~Z~ 41.tt.l JNTl.l.{'.tif.U' INT(: f)_.j<) --i 2!iOU r,l.2S llkl\l.11. CORI' ('Jl{f't -·Liff -0 • .ff7SO 2.\,00 Mil fll ~~( tff t '.( )kf' M<fl" -Li.i'. -L.2500 <J.t,oo \1( I WOtU.()\'.OM Wl"(JM . .J.2.J +.!.k175 9.UHt <,l)l.llf'N \I ft:-,,1('..W li\UN/ .nu,~ -Ll107S .uu !iriUN \AH KO!l.\'!•ITEM ,u,.w .J.Sc, -2 .. 10011 o7.ll l l'\l l 1 '\'\HM\ CiCO .[).:U -fU750 111.n \'AlfOO/~c Ylf(l(/ -1.96 • .,ffJtrf)IJ wi.•, \llVUC•.h iN fl,\NCO WRN 1-I-I -lS ... 2.rn1.sn i 5.tH! 
¦ YUGOSLAVIA 


AssOUATEll PIIESS 
GHDELICA 
The smell of burned ncsh lingPrnd Monday as rescue workers used fire hoses and aX<!S to pull charred bodies from the crumpled skeleton of an incinerated train, the allcmnath of what Yugoslav authorities said was a NATO air strike. 
Serb ofiicials said at least nine pnople aboard the pas­senger train were killed and I(1 injured when a N/\TO warplane bombed it. The private news agency Beta said a I 0th body was found later and that officials !'eared the toll would rise even higher. 
The allies said the train was not deliberately target­ed, but acknowledged it may have been accidentally hit during an airstrike on a railway bridge. 

"Poople were moaning, screaming !'or help," the state news agency Tanjug quoted one of' the first res­cuers, Dr. Tomislav Cvetanovic. as saying. "Those unharmed managed to climb out of the smashed train windows." 
. The passenger train com­ing from Belgrade was bound !'or the town of Ristovac on the Greek bor­der, on lhe main Belgrade­Salonika route, officials said. 
"After the first bomb, I ducked for cover. Then there were three more," said Dragan Mladenovic, a witness who spoke to reportnrs bused to the scene by the Yugoslav army. "I stood up, and I saw a man with his arm chopped off. and I saw ... a dead body." 
Two coaches were on the track and two were off the track, all four smashed and burned. The partly wrecked engine remained on the track. The bridge itself was severely damaged. wHh rails torn up. Policfl at the scene said one body was apparently swept away by the river bnlow. 
Scattnred body parts, including arms, were found 20 to 30 yards from the train. What appeared to be missile parts were mixed with other piecns of wreck­age thrown 150 yards from the point of impact. Nearby houses were slightly dam­aged, with brok1m windows. 
In Belgium, NATO said it hit a rail bridge considered to bn an important military supply line. adding that "incoming military reports indicate tlrnre was a train on or near thn bridg,i at llm time." 
"Regrettably, we cannot exclude the possibility of casualties in this instancn," a statement said. 
NATO said it had tahn "extraordinary mnasures to avoid collateral casualties" during the air campaign to force Yugoslav l'rnsid1rnl Slobodan Milosevic to agrn11 to a cease-fire in Kosovo and to curtail his nxpulsions of ethnic Albanians. 
Authorities and witnesses from the nearby village of Grdelica said thn strih camn shortly hPl<>rn noon. 
¦ COLUMBIA 

Rebels hijack ;passenger plane 
AsSOCIATED PRESS included the president of state•owned The pilot of a small commercial 
irntural gas company Ecogas, Aldair plane who flew ovor thu plane said it 
BOGOTA Duarte, and a congressman, Juan had landod on an airstrip that had in 
A Colombian passenge,r plane was Corso. A 3-year-old child was among the past been dynamited by authori• apparently hijacked on a domestic those ou the passenger list. ties. likely because it was used by ille­flight Monday and forced to land on a Simiti is 80 miles northwest of gal drug llights. remote airstrip. Its passengers and Bucaramanga, the provincial capital, Tho last communication with flight crew were believed hustled away by which the plane left at 10:32 a.m. en 9463 occurred two minutes after take­IAftist rebels. route to Bogota. The flight normally ot'l' from Palonogl'O airport in 
Pilots who flew over the landing takes 65 minutes. Bucaramanga, officials said. The strip in Simiti said they saw people Veined by tributaries to the plane did not report any problems and dnissed in groen escorting tho 46 pas­Magdalena RivElr that climb into thick­oOlci~lls said weath11r conditions wnre songol's and crew of the Fokkor-50 ly forested Andl)an highlands, the excllllent. turboprop into wooden boo.ts on the region has traditfonally been used by lf leftist guerrillas w11re responsible, adjacent Magdalena River. rebels to.hide.victims of ransom kid­thtl,Y might try to use the abducwd 
Polit:() who later landud at the strip nappings.Inre.cent months, it has also p1tsstingers as bargaining chips in found the plane empty with no signs seen fierce cbmbat between guerrillas peace Mgotiations with the govern­ol' a violent struggle. said Ernesto n.nd their paramilitary foes. ment. Huertas. director of the civil aviation Th(i air force commander, G(in. Both tho Nntional Liboration Army authority. There was no immediate Fabio Velasco, said poople in uniform and the country's largest rebel band, cl!\im of responsibility and the plane were seen surrounding the plane by a The llcvolutionary Armed Forces of was not carrying any senior govern• search-and~rescue helicopter pilot. It Colombia, have po,m~ talks that has mcnt officials. was presumed they were leftist robots, made little progress, with guerrilla 
It appeared no foreigners were who have a strong presence in the attacks on rural police posts and mili• aboard the plane, whose passengers area. tary patrols a ni~arly daily occurrnncn. 

• 

The Observer. CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, April 13, I999 
Career and Place01ent develops new resuIDe service 
By SARAH SEGUE 
News Writer 
The Career and Placement Services has added a new 24­hour, Intcrnet-accessihle, recruiting package for stu­dents. The system, Internet Recruiting. Interviewing and Scheduling llotlink (IRISII), will enable students to write their rfsunu~s. schecluk intr.r­views with possible employers, find job openings and send dossiers without 0ve11 going to the Carnor and Placement Office. 
"InISII is our opportunity to takl~ advantage of new tech­nology and benefit the stu­dents as well as the University," said Hussell Kitchner, ·acting director of Career and Placement Services. 
IHISII is a system that has Leen specifically designed for Notre Danrn. It can be accessed with an AFS ID and µassword from anywhere that has internet access, even after graduation. 
Eight versions of resumes are available, which can be sent to possible employers via the internet. Students schedule their own intc\rvicws, allowing more direct contact with possi­ble employers. There is no longer a user fee and much of the administrative paper work has been eliminated, saving time for both students and the office. 
IRISH also provides a con­nection between students look­ing for jobs and alumni. 
The office's former system included Hesume Expert, which involved uploading a disk. The office interacted with employers on the students behalf which resulted in a lot of shuffling when it came to interview times. 
To solve the problems, 
Career and Placement teamed with representatives from the Alumni Office, Office of Information Technologies, stu­dent representatives, and Tom Monahan, the Web administra­tor for the University. 
"We Lenel1ted from the input or the rommunity and it was a meaningful learning experi­ence," said Kitchner. 
IRISH was addrd in April so 
that students did not have to change systems, said Kitchner. Grarluating seniors are fin­ished with the recruiting process and juniors have yet to begin. To have implemented the system in January would have caused problems ~ecause it would have been halfway through the recruiting season, he said. 
"\Ve tried to develop and implement the system at a time most convenient to stu­dents and logistics," said Kitrh1rnr. 
"This advancement docs not mean that students should stop going to Career and Placement. We suggest that most students not send resumes until Career and Placement has helped them review the format,., said Kitchrrnr. "We have lots of experience and want our stu­dents to look professional." 
Career and Placement offers workshops .and counseling to 


1

' 
*;CalLT 
the ne 
help students prepare their resumes and cover letters. A new Web site is in the 
making for Career and Placement that will include IRISH as well as other new services. 
Dossier services will be accessible which will allow students to prepare and send dossiers online to other uni­versities. 
Events and workshops will be posted on a calendar. These include presentations on cam­pus and workshop dates. 

"JobTrak," a Web site based in California that posts jobs from all over the country, is currently linked on the Web site. 
The office itself is also improving. They arc looking into extending the resource 
center's hours to evenings so that students can come in after classes. A computer cluster is also going to be added. 
The first ·noor of Flanner Hall now features sPveral interviewing rooms, a waiting area and a conference room, whirh adds to thr profession­alism of the recruiting process. Counseling services arc avail­able and with tho arldition of IRISII, the office hopes to devote more time and energy to students. 
"We have challenges ahead, but we believe we are on the cutting ndgo," said Kitchner. 


On balance transfers 
Transfer those high-balance credit cards to your Notre Dame Federal Credit Union VISA or MasterCard and save. 
P4 NOTRE DAME www.ndfcu.org 
-.-. FEDERAL CREDIT UNION (2 I 9) 239-6611 or (800) 522-66 I 1 For People. Not For Profit. 
•Jhls special rate applil.!s fix the tirst 6 months on balance transfers only. Rate will 1h,:11 revert back to l•t92°u. It doc:-. not include existing balancl..':s on any Notn: Dam1,.• F..:tkral C'rcdirlfoion MasterCard or VISA. Promotio11 \.ahd Januar)' X. through Man.:h JI. l9l)'-)
---------------~~---~------
... 
Oetiv-el"t1j' TiuD~t Rzza,I @3©Gl~ \lCi:l© @O@@rh '1rn©@(i)Gl~gg  
9  Anytime Anytime you call between you call between 5:30 & 7:00, 10:30-12:59r7¾· 9 the price of your the price of your 2 large 1 large 1 topping topping pizzas pizza is the time you call.is the time you call. * Plus tax* Plus tax  
r-------------,Lunch Special 1 1 I Small 1 Topping I I 2 Cans of Coca-Cola product I Saint Mary's/ND store I $5.99 I 271-11.77 L-------------.JNorth Village Mall 271-PAPA  



The Ian , and most po literature, fasc beauty and internati '  argest of rich natural ortunities  
Learn fast:  Intensive emirs Fulfill the langu  
Contact:  

University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
moe 1Jtotre 11Bame <tborale & <tbamber ®rcbestra 
Alexander Blachly, Director 
Music of: Bach Lassus Brahms Mozart 
8:00 p.m. 
Wed., Apr. 14 Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Free & open to the public.



page 7

The Observer• NEWS
Tuesday, April 13, 1999 
Albright meets with Russians to discuss peacekeeping 
OSLO, Norway 

With NATO unity real'firnrnd. Secretary of' State !\ifud1•l('irw 1\lbriglll is holding out lo Hussia a rol1• in p1iacck1rnping in Kosovo whiln rautioning againsl providing military i11tPI­
Homes for Rent 


• 
Dmnus Properties has two, five, six and nine bedroom student housing available 

• 
Student neighborhoods close to


._, 
campus 
• 
Security systems provided 

• 
Well maintained homes 

• 
Maintenance staff on call 



Available for the 1999/2000 school year 
Contact Kramer (219) 276-7020 or (219) 674-2571 or (219) 233-4509 

No Summer Plans?? 
Summer Senrice Projects 
AVAJLABLE (ND 

students only) 
• 
Service-Learning opportunity • $1,700 Scholarship/3 credits 

• 
8 Weeks volunteer work with a disadvantaged population 


In Cities of ND Alumni Clubs 

Applications available: Center for Social Concerns 
Projects available: 
Allentown, PA Cleveland Denver Des Moines Detroit Ft. Wayne Idaho Indianapolis Joliet Kalamazoo Kentucky Los Angeles Marion, IN Michigan City,IN Goshen, IN Rockford, IL Savannah, GA Washington, DC 
Stop in for more information or call: Sue Cunningham 1-7867 or Erika Fuehrmeyer 4-1498 
Catholic Social Services -variety 
local student 
kids program -local 
Catholic Worker House 
LA SED -Hispanic Comm. Cntr -car 
Boys & Girls Club (car) -local 

La Posada -migrant workers (spanish) 
variety 
Medical -female 
migrant workers -( spanish) 
males -2 different spots 
Shelter for men-male 
Abuse programs 
camp for <level. disabled adults 
Boys & Girls Club 
medical, car 
Home for children (21 yr. old male) and more 
l'lgencn or aid to Yugoslavia. 
"Wn b0licvc Hussia has a con­structive role to play in helping to hring ahout and implement a sPtt!Pm1ml," State Department spokesman James Hubin said f)1trly today upon arriving in Oslo with Albright. Today's l'nncu-mnnding meeting lwro with Hussian Foreign Minister Igor Ivanov follows a North Atlantic Council meeting in Brussels iu which Lh1) lfJ NATO allies consicJnrod having Hussian and other European troops join in enforcing a settle­m en t in the province if Yugoslavia accnpts peace 

trrms. 
While NATO would lead Urn force. "that doesn't mean thern arc not other ways th at other 
forces could he part of t h a t , " Albright told reporters Monday. 
"It is absolutely rrncessary to 


havP th11 Albright 
Hussians 
involved." Frnnch Foreign 
Minister llubert Vcdrinli said. 
"Not jusl as a matter of form, 
but orsubstancH." 
Russia has susponded its tics 
wilh NATO to prutost thn bomb­
ing of tho Serbs and sent a spy 
ship toward the /\driatic Sea. In 
ordering the moves. President 
Boris Yeltsin alhiged that the 
United States and its alli<'s 
"want lo take over Yugoslavia, 
make it their protrct.oratc." 
American officials traveling 
with Alhright said they havo no 
evidence Hussia helped 
Yugoslavia with intelligcnctL 
Albright said Sunday on her 
tlight from Washington that she 
reminded H.ussia the United 
Nations had imposed an arms 
embargo on Yugoslavia. 
"It is important to abide by 
that Security Council resolution 
... and we expect them to do 
so," Albright said. 
She then turned down an 
appeal for weapons from a rep­
resen ta ti ve ol' the Kosovo 
Liberation Armv. A senior U.S. 
official said s0!1e told Jak:up 
Krasniqi at a meeting Monday 
that any move to arm the rebels 
in defiance of a U.N. arms 
embargo on all sides in 
Yugoslavia could weak1rn sup­
port for the ethnic Albanians. 
Moscow also argues that 
NATO is acting illegally in 
Kosovo becaus0 the U.N. 
Security Council hasn't explicit­
Iv authorized action. 
· Norwegian Foreign Minister 
Knut Vollebaek said he did not 
expect a breakthrough in tlrn · U.S-Russian rift. "I believe we should lower our expectations," he said. 
Norway, a member of' the 
North Atlantic Treaty 
Organization, holds the rotating 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
THURSDAY -SATURDAY,

PRESENTS 
APRIL 15-1 7 at 8:00 P.M. 

A VICTORIAN 
SUNDAY, APRIL 18 at 

THRILLER 2:30 P.M. 
LITTLE THEATRE 
For ticket information contact the Saint Mary's 

A~TGEL College Box Office at 
l ~ 284-4626. 
STREBT MO~FA'.0 
..li. 
~EIO'T~R,/
9 FOR HIE ARTS

,; 4 
Notre Dame, IN 


To St. Ed's Biggest Star Wars Fan!!I 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY!! 
Love, Mom and Dad 
chairmanship of' the Organization for Sncurity and Coop1)ralion in Europn. That is the capacity in which Volldnrnk is playing host to today's rnoet­ing. 
''They both wern inlnrnsted in meeting," Vollebaek said. "They wanted a neutral ground. and the 0SCE was accoptablo for both." 
The Norwegian told rnportnrs that it was important that "we make the Hussian side undnr­stand that our dmnands are not nngutiablc." 
Albright said hundreds or thousands of nthnic i\lbanians still in Kosovo race starvation, and thn NATO ministers had begun discussions of ways to protect tlrnir rights in the nvnnt of a setth~ment. 
After confirming NATO's unity at 19-nation foreign min­isters meeting. /\!bright said while partition of Kosovo was not an option, the fornign min­istnrs considernd "sornn kind ol' international protectivn status" for the n~gion Milosevic has pledged not to surrender. 
Such a protectoratn would allow the ethnic Albanians, who numbered 1.8 million and made up 90 percent of tho population before exodus and exccotion. "to live with a high degree of snlf-govcrnmcnt without tlrn thrnats and terror that they have been living under," Albright said. 
She said "them are a numbnr of' ideas that arn out them" and "none of those have hnnn snt­tled upon." 
In a parallel move certain to angor the Yugoslav prnsidnnt, '.\JATO is moving to deny Milosevic authority to knep Serb troops in Kosovo after the con­11ict. 
A six-nation peace plan that he rejected would have permit­ted 5,000 Serb troops to remain, half' of them to patrol the border of Kosovo. which would remain a part of' Serbia. 
The other hall' would \nave after a year. Milos1wic nullified autonomy in the Serbian province a decade ago and has refused to accept a snttlemnnt that would maximize autonomy but not extend ind()pnndcnce to the province. 

page 8 The Observer. NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, April 13, 1999 
Firefighters rescue worker from crane, flames 
Associated Pres< gled above the fire, he thought 
only one thing: "I hope the 
ATLANTA rope doesn't break." 

A construction worker Larry Rogers, who was in trapped on top of a swaying, the helicopter to guide the 250-foot crane above a raging pilot and the cable, said the fire for more than an hour flames were intensely hot was rescued Monday by a fire­even. 80 feet above the cable. fighter dangling perilously "I had to put my visor from a down," helicopter he said. cable. " T h e 
T h e 'PEOPLE SAY, "You SEEM TO heat was flames pretty
BE REALLY CALM," BUT 

were lick­tough."
WHEN YOU'VE BEEN TRAINING FOR

ing at the Boyd 
cahle as THIS, YOU JUST DO IT-IT'S Clines, fire fi ghtc r the pilot
YOUR JOB. I USED TO PLUCK

M a t t of the Mosely SPECIAL FORCES TEAMS OUT OF state­climbed owned
LAos AND CAMBODIA.'

onto the h e l i ­crane and copter scrambled Rom CuNES used fur 
to the end, 
HELICOPTER RFSCUH PILOT fighting 

w h P r e forest Ivers Sims fires, was wait-said the ing anxiously. flight was very turbulent 
Mosely strapped Sims into a because of the flames and harness and held on tightly as wind. both were lowered by the heli­He said he was trying to fl) copter to the grass nearby. quickly because "the crane Sims. 49, walked to a stretch­was on fire. It was kind of a er, and spectators applauded time limit. We didn't have all as he was wheeled to an day to do it." ambulance. Clines. a former Army pilot, 
Ile was in stable condition has worked for the state's 

Monday night after being Department of Natural 
treated for smoke inhalation Resources for 20 years. 
and heat exposure. "People say, 'You seem to be 
Mosely, 30, said he tried to really calm,' but when you've joke with Sims because the been training for this, you just flames were so hot. do it -it's your job," he said. 
"I told him his boss sent me "1 used to pluck Special up so he could knock off Forces teams out of Laos and early," Mosely said. "That Cambodia." helped lighten things up a lit­The fire had engulfed an old tle bit. He was pretty much five-story mill that was being calm." converted to loft apartments 
Mosely said that as he dan-in east Atlanta. It spread to at least two houses. 

Flames gutted one home as neighbors used garden hoses to douse their r,losely clus­tered, wood-frame houses to keep the fire from spreading. 
"There were embers just raining down everywhere," said Rodney Howman, who said he stomped out several small fires in his hack yard. "If it hadn't have been for the people who live here, a lot more houses would've burned down." 
Sims, of Woodland, Ala., was taken to Atlanta Medical Center. Ho was not admitted 
but spent the night with fami­ly members in its guest quar­ters because he was "still overwhelmed," said hospital spokeswoman Lillian Campbell. 
genford Stellmacher, associ­ated pastor of Antioch East Baptist Church, said he met briefly with Sims and his fami­ly at the hospital. Sims didn't say much other than "I know God was with me up there,'' Stellmacher said. 
Sims had crawled onto a concrete counterweight on the end of the crane's horizontal a.rm to get away from the black smoke and flames rising from the red brick building. Ile seemed calm and alert as he lay on his belly, waiting to be rescued. 
Smoke and flames could be seen at the renter of the crane, about 20 feet from where Sims waited to be res­cued. The crane was swaying in winds that gusted to more than 20 mph. 
At least one other person was believed injured in the fire. 
There was no immediate word on the causn of thn blaze. 



FRIDAY, APRIL 16 8:00PM ALUMNI SENIOR,CLUB 

·1iu:sday, April 13, 1999 The Observer• NATIONAL NEWS page9
----------~---------------------------------------------­
-

Judge holds Clinton in contempt 
LITTLE HOCK, Ark. 

A fPdPra! judgP found l'rPsidrmt Clinton in con­LnmpL or court Monday for giving "intentionally fa(sp" [Pstimonv ahout his relationship with l\fonira l.1'.winsky, imposing a historic judicial n•llllkl' 011 a c-hit!f nx1ii:uLivn who survivnd con­gn~ssional imp!•adrnwnt just two months ago. 
llistorians said tlwy lwlicvcd Clinton was tlw first pn•sid1•11t t11 far.ii such a penalty, a lasting stigma that rnulcl also forrn him to pay tons of' thousands of dollars more to l'a11la .lotlf'S hnvorHI lhP 
$S!i0.0(HI ti.-p11ici to snltle hl'I' S!'XUal harassnrnnt 
'THE COURT TAKES NO PLEA­

l"laims 
SURE WHATSOEVER IN

I !.S. llistrid .ludg<· Susan W<'hlwr Wrigltt i111pos11 d a HOLDING THIS NATION'S rivil rnllH'r tlw11 a r-riminal 
PRESIDENT IN CONTEMPT OF

1wnalty l'or Clinton's tnsli· mo11v in 1111' .Jntll'S 1·asn, COURT.' 
ord(•i·ing hint to pay .lorws .C-,11s,1N v\,'HUUNl v\,J/l(i/ff her ruling." 
"a11y rPasonahl1• 11 xpPnsns including allor11Pys' fons raus1•d by his willful l"ailurn to olwv this l'ourL's dis<'OV· Pry onil'rs." 
Tlw judge also ordcn\d 11111 prnsid1\nl to pay $1.20~ as n:imbursm111rnt for thn judge's travnl in lll!• cas<', and SI'( in motion a legal process that rould strip Clinton of liis Arkansas law license. 
"Tlw r1\1·ord drnnonstrales by clnar and con­vindng <ividnncP that tlrn prcsidnnt rr!spondod to plainlilrs q1wstio11s by giving fals1i. mislmtding and cvasiv1• answr•rs that were designed to ohslrnct t.lw judiriul process," Wright wrote. 
Wright said slw would delay m1forcenrnnt for :m days to giVP Clinton an opportunity to ask for a !waring or lo appeal. On,· option is for him to USP his h•gal df'l(•ns11 fund, which has rais11d $4.5 million, lo pay tlw sanction. 
.John WhitPllf'ad, orw or Mrs. .lotws' lawyers, said tlH• IPgal ,\xp,•ns<'s could be "l.nns of thou­sands ol' dollars." 
"You hav1• all Lill' nxpenses rnlatrd to sevr.n lawyPrs who allHndPd tlm deposition -air fares, llw 1inw spt\lll there, the lime pn1paring, meals, and what WI' twli,we was the cause and nffoct or tlw wh11ll' thing," said Whitehead, who runs a ronsnrvativf' 11:gal group that paid somn of .!onus' hills. 
SPnior pn1sid,•nlial aides, sp1\aking on condi­li1111 of anonymity, said Clinton lawyers regardPd Ihi' pl1 111tlty as n•lativ,ily light sinw th1\ judge had tlw option of eiting tlw pn•sidenl l'or criminal rontnmpl. Hut tlw lawyers wen\ ke,iping options open until they learned how large a monetary penalty Jones might seek. 
"I will have no commnnt until I have had the opportunity of reviewing this mattm· fully," said Holmrl Bcnnetl, the private lawyer who repre­imnted Clinton in the .lonns case. 
The ruling, a public reminder of tlrn Lewinsky controversy al a time when national interest has turn1id to Kosovo and other matters, came just two months after the Sfmate voted to acquit Clinton of impeachment charges that grew out of Llw rolationship and his donials of it. 
Hep. Asa Hutchinson, lhc Arkansas Bepublicun who was one of tho House prose­cutors in the impeachment trial. said a "nonpartisan and nonpolitical judge" had found thn president had will­fully disobeynd court orders lo be truthful and "I have to underline tlrn 'willful' µart of 
The ofl1ce or Independent
u. S. !JISTR!(i" JI !IJ(;E (' I K I s
.ounsc cnnet 1 , tarr, 
whose investigation prompt­ed tlrn impeachment effort, declined comment Monday night. 
Whiiclwad said the ruling was "a vindication" for his client and the first timn "where the presi­dent was actually ht)ld accountable in the end." 
Clinton is believed to be the first chief execu­tivn 10 be found in civil contempt while in office, according to Hobert Dallck, a historian at Boston University. "It's not gning to help Bill Clinton's historical rnputation." Dallek said. 
Wright. a Bush-appointed Republican and a f'ormcr law student of Clinton's, said in her rul­ing, "ThH court takes no pleasure whatsoever in holding this nation's president in contempt of court." 
She also said her decision to dismiss the Jones case a year ago would not have changed. even if the president had been "truthful with respect to his rnlationship with Lewinsky." 
.Jones appealed the dismissal, but then she set­tled the case by accepting an $850,000 payment from Clinton. She alleged that Clinton, as Arkansas governor, made an unwanted sexual advance in a Little Hock hotel room in 1991. 
Wright said Jones was entitled to information regarding any state or federal employee with whom the president had or proposed to have sexual relations. 
In his deposition in the Jones case, Clinton said: "I have never had sexual relations with Monica Lewinsky." 
Are yeu creative? 
Do you see the world just a bit 
cJ1:1·1·e.R£Jrl"r11v 
than everyone else does? 
Join the award-winning 

OBIIRVIR 4DVIRTIIIMG DIP4RTJ41MT 
• 
Earn $7.50 per hour 

• 
Learn Quark ExPress; Adobe Freehand, Illustrator and PhotoShop 

• 
Put your photography or drawing talents to work 

• 
Get real-work experience in a daily newsroom 

• 
Meet interesting people 

• 
Advancement opportunities available 


NY Times, AP win 1999 Pulitzers 
As~oi;iatcd Press 
NEW YORK 

The Associated Press, The NflW York Times and The Wall Street Journal oach won two Pulitzers on Monday, and The Washington Post was awarded the 1999 prize for pttblk service. · The AP won Lim two pho­tography awards, the first titnc staff membnrs of the same organization havA swept the photo categories. 
reporting wenl lo Riclrnrd Road of The Oregonian of Portland for showing the impact of the Asian econom­ic crisis on a local frnnch fries exporter. 
When word reached Th(\ Oregonian nnwsroom that business reporter Ilirhard Head had won for the four­p a rt series titled "The French Fry Connection," a brass baud played and tlw 350 staffers washed down hundreds of tll'ders ul' McDonald's fries with cham­

In 1974, the AP won both pagne. photo Pulitzers, one for a picture 
'My REACTION IS I'M JUST

by a staff 
SO GRATEFUL TO

member and the PRFSIDENT CLINTON THAT HE other by 
NEVER SPOKE THE WORDS,

a free­! a.n c et "YOUNG LADY, PULL DOWN wh,'o $ e 
THAT JACKET AND GET BACK TO

work the 
'AP dis0 THE TYPING POOL.'" fr1huted. 
T h e 
"It's a riot in h e r e r i g h t now.·• 
executive 
editor P e t o r 13hatia said. 
T h -e prize for criticism went to B l a i r 

prize for MAUREEN DO»'!) Kamin of commen­PULITZER PRIZE WJNNE1i t h e 
tary went t 0 Maureen Dowd of the Times for columns on President Clinton's affair with Monica Lewinsky. The Times staff, notably Jeff Gerth, won for national reporting for a series that disclosed the sale ofAmerican technology to Gti11a despite national secu­
. i'it¥)'islcs. tTo paraphrase Monica L(')Winsky's favorite poet, T,$. Eliot. April is the coolest month," Dowd said. "MY reaction is I'm just so grateful to President Clinton that he never spoke the words. 'Young lady, pull down that jacket and get back to the typing pool.'" 
The Wall Street Journal won for in ternationnl -repprting for coverage of the Russian financial crisis. The 
·Journal's Angelo Henderson won the feature writing ca.t­egpry for his portrait of a druggist driven to violence by his encounters with armed robbers. 
"I couldn't be more thrilled," said Bob Davis. a member of the Journal's international reporting team. "It was a team effort in covering the meltdown in Russia, of which I was a small part." 
The AP won the spot news photography award for a portfolio on the embassy bQmhings in Kenya and Tanzania. 
It won for feature photog­raphy for a colJectlon of photographs of the events surrounding Clinton's affair with Lewinsky and his impeachment. The AP has won nine Pulitzers in the past nine years, including eight for photography. 
"We couldn't ho happior or more proud," said Louis Boccard!. AP president and chief executive oflicor. 
"It's overwhelming. lt's just a tremendous tribute to the staff." said Vin Alabiso, AP _vice president and exec• utive photo editor. "We are definitely getting out the champagne!" 
The Post won the public service a.ward for a series on reckless gunplay by city police officers. 
The prize for explanatory 
Chicago 
Tribune for his coverage of architec· ture, including a series on 
the  development  of  
Chicago's lakefront.  
His work originally  was  

entered in that category, but was moved by jurors to beat reporting and then moved back to criticism by the Pulitzer board. 
The beat reporting prize went to the Los Angel(1s Times' Chuck Philips and Michael Hiltzik for stories on corruption in the enter· tainment industry. 
The prize for breaking news reporting was 1iwnrd­ed to The Hartford Courant for coverage of a shooting rampage in which a lottery worker killed four supervi­sors and himself. 
"The winning of this award really validates what we all knew: This is the best newsroom in the country," Publisher Marty P1,tty told the staff. 
She then asked for a moment of silence in memo­ry of those slain. 
"Everybody at the Courant would gladly give this award back if we could bring one of these people back," said John Springer, who was n reporter in the New Britain bureau at the time of the shootings and one of the first journalists on the scene. 
The Miami Herald won for investigative reporting for exposing pervasive votor fraud in the city's mayoral election that was later over­turned. 
The New York Daily News won for editorial writing for its cnmpalgn to rescue Harlem ·s Apollo Thcatrc from mismanagement. 
The editorial cartooning prize went to David Hors<iy of tho Sei~tlle Post­Intelligencer. 
The Pulitzers, the most prestigious awards givnn for journalism, are presentNI annually by Columbia University. 
The awards carry a prize of $5,000. except for public service. 
The winning newspaper of that category gets a gold modal. 

Page 10 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, April I 3, 1999 


.A. 
. . 
§CIUill A55i1Ulf AWilfCDC55 Weck 
Monda~. April 12th Candle Ught Vigil at the Grotto 8:30 p.w.. Ribbons will be handed out at South Dining Hall 
Tuesda~. April 13th CARE Skit "When a ~iss is Not Just a ~issn Hesburgh Ubrar~ Auditoriuw. 8:00 p.w.. 
Food wlll be served 
Ribbons will be handed out at North Dining Hall 
Wednesda~. April 14th Fbnel Discussion Sorin Roow. LaFortune 8:00 p.w.. w/ reps frow. SOS (Sex Offense Services). Caw.pus Securit~. Resident Ufe. St. Joseph Medical 
Cenfer9 and South Bend Police Food wlll be served 
Thursda~. April 15th Fbnel of Survivors Foster Roow. LaFortune 8:00 p.w.. 
Food Wlll be Served 
Frida~. April 16th Wear jeans in protest of Italian court finding that wow.en wearing jeans cannot be raped. 
~ "
---.,,. ~ -... -......... -.. --·. -... --.... ,,. -... --..... -•··-......... --... .,,_ . -.. .. . ... -.. .,.. ......... -. .. .. --.... --....... -... " -. .. "' .---.. -... .. .. --. -.. ---------.. 

Tttesday, April 13, 1999 The Observer• NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
/ /,,. Ni 1./1. , , 1/ .'°1 111 "' 1· 
l/:•11,,. Aconversation about... 
Baptist leader enters guilty plea 
i\,,ociateJ Prcsq 
TAMPA, Fin. 

/\ plan11nr f'or tlw National Baptist Conwntion USA plead­od guilly today to a singlo minor count, ending her case tlrn morning sh<' was to go on trial on clrnrgo:; of conspiracy. nrnn11y laundnring and bank fraud. 
llrnndn Harris, 48, said she was guilty 11!' "misprision of a folony," or failing to inform poll ct: wlrn 11 a crirn o was lwing cornmitlnd. Assistant 
U.S. Attorney f-.:on Lawson said. 
Sm1tencing is schedulod for . July 2(,, arid as part uf llrn plea agrcPtn!!lll, proser:utors won't so1ik n prison tPrlll. l.awso11 said, Misprision of a fp)nny rarri<!S i1 maximnm snnlt'llC'n or thrPn years in prison and a $250,00() li1w, he said. 
Tlw agrPt•nrnnt ralls for llarris l.o l'orldt a $340.000 home in llr1•ntwood, Tmrn., pnid for with monciy from the fornwr dirn('lor ol' llw conven­tion, 1lw f.'atlwr llenry Lyons, said Harris' attorney, Peter Strianse. · 
Muney in hank a<'<'ounls a)s() will be forfnitl'd. Lawson said. 
Lyons was c·onvicted in F1•lJruary on slate dwrges or bilking $4 million l'rom com­panies doing business with the Nashville, Tenn.-based black church group. and laking nearly $250,000 donated by 
the Anti-Ucfamation U.\ague of fl'nai R'rit.h. The money was supposed to go to ro·huild black churches· that had been bmnHd. 
Lyons also pleaded guilty to federal charges of tax evasion nnd fraud. and will be sen­1.onced Juno 18. 
llis co-clcl'endant Bernice Edwnrds, a cnnvenfoin public rttlaiiuns director. was acquit­ted in stato rourt but pluaderl guilty to t\.vo federal tax eva.­si!rn counts tmd races sentenc­ing in Soptrmlmr. 
Evon before today's pica was reached, llarris, who says she had an affoir with Lyons, admitted that Lyons gave her a substantial amount for a down payment on the Tennessee home, as well as j1iwt>lry and other gifts during their two"ytiar relationship. 
Tho pica agrnorrwnt was prcS<\ntr.rl by the government Sunday and 11nully recognized that. Harris was a minor play­er, Striansc said. 
Outside the courtroom, Ilarris apnlogized I'll( her roll! in the crimes. 
'Tm sorry I let people down. We had an opportunity to be in 11 Christian environment and hold up our Lord, and we failed,'' llarris said. 
Sho rnit.orat.iHl her position that her relationship with the married minister was not about money or girts. but about love, saying, "He was a good person to me." 

Defense tries to save murderer 
Lake's home in Ng began their bid Wilsnyvillc. 150 Monday to save h.is lifn 
'HE WAS JUST LIKE ANY OTHER KID. A miles nasl of San 
by calling the psychia­Francisco.
REGULAR KID. HE WAS SHY. HE WAS
trist, who said Ng was c;rassian also lrnaten by his father QUIET.' tcstil'ind that Ng 
and had a mental dis­order that made him follow thn dic(atc\S or co-conspiraJor l.!~1mard 
LakP. 

The lawyers also said Ng he hclpHd other inmates while in prison . 
"You will roalize that he is a p1m;on of value and he should he saved." ddcnsr attorney William Kelley told jururs. 
Ng, an ornigro from !long Kong and former U.S. l\farine, was convictnd Feb. 24 of killing six men, thrne women and two baby boys in a sprne nl' kidnapping, honrlage and sadism. The penalty phaso began last month and resumed al'ler a thrnc-wcck break. 
Dr. Stuart Grassian, a Boslon psychiatrist, said Ng's scwcre personality problems dcvelopml early in lifo because 111' a strict. upbringing in !long Kong. 
"lie was never encouraged as a child lo be assertive," Grassian said. "He was always morbidly shy as a child and when teachers would say that 
lacked th1\ innnr rage that rnoli­Wlf.l.ltV\,f Kt:U.hY vatcs cull lnadnrs DUHNSH i\1TOJ/Nl:'Y such as Charll~s 

table. 
Grassian said that once Ng ramn to tho l'nitnd States he sought guidance from authori­ty figures because he was incapabln of' detc~rmining his own path in life. 
Kelley also called Ng's aunt, i\licri Shum, who testified that Ng had a normal childhood except for extrnnrn shyness and beatings by his father. 
"lie was just likn any othnr kid," she said through a Cantonese interpreter. "A reg­ular kid. lie was shy. Ile was quiet." 
.Jurors WC1l'C shown grenting cards that Ng created for his aunt in jail. 
On one he had drawn an angel and exprnssnd profusn thanks f'or his aunt's support. 
Shn wept as she showed plwtographs of a little boy in short overalls posing wilh sis­ters and cousins. She said she still loves him. "I foe! that it's 
really a pity ... just because ho knew some bad pcoplfl Im became what he is," the aunt said. 
The outline of Ng's life was of'fernd Lo explain his drift into crime, first in tlrn Marine Corps, whnrn Im joirrnd ot.lrnrs in st.rrnling woap1111s. and tlwn later whnn Im joinnd Lake in 
tortur1i-murd1irs at. 
Manson and .Jim Jonns. Ile said Ng would bl' more liknly to boconw a fol­lower of" such men but would never have the resources to lead a cult himself. 
"Charles Ng was tlw type of person that would have r,nded up in South J\1m1rica drinking Kool-Aid," he said, reforring to th11 suicides at Jo1rnstown in Guyana. "I don't think lw was predesti,rnd in l<'rms ol' vio" lencP or sadism." 
The psyr.hiatrisl said hn found Ng to be "vciry unusual" in his ability to accept punish­ment without enrntional erup­tions. 
Ng spent 14 years in jail bnforn going on trial in tlrn murders. 
Befoni the murder case, tlrn Marine Corps W!iapons casl' had put him in Leavenworth federal prison. 
Lake killed himself with cyanide after police arrnstnd him for shoplifting. 

Associaced l'ress 
SANT A ANA. Calif'. 
A man who took part in the lorturc killings of 11 people, including two baby boys, 
. should bn spared execution because his strict upbringing in !long Kong led to his crimes, a psychiatrist testitfocl Monday. 
Lawynrs for Charles 
he didn't speak in class, his father would beal him with a cane. 
"Ile felt debased, d1walued. lie was told he was stupid." 
Ng loved animals, Grassian said, and was cl11vastatcd when one of his pel chickens was killnd by a family member and wound up on tho dinnM 
VIEWPOINT 
page 12 -------------------------OB~ERVER ------------------Tuesday,April 13, 1999 
THE OBSERVER 
N0TRF DAMF OJ'FICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
1999-2000 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF M1chdlc Krupa MANAGING EorroR BUSINfhS MANAGF.R 
M. Shannon Ryan Dave Rogcro 
A5SISTANT MANAGING EDITOR Laura Percllc 
NN'S EDITOR..  .............Tim Log"'  ADVF:RTISING MANAGER......  ..  ........ Brvan Lur,  
VIF.Wl'0INT EDITOR  ......Colleen Ga11ghen  AD OF.SIGN MANACER .............. Kennc.-th Kearney  
SPORTS EomlR  ..  . .. .. ....  Brian Kml,r  SYSTEMS M.\NACF.R  ..  .. ......... Michael Revers  
Sc~NE EDITOR.  .  . .......Michael Vanega..,  l.AlNTRO~lfR  ...Timothy Lane  
5,1.JNT MARY'S E tJIT0R.......Collccn McC,nhy  GRAPHICS EDITOR..............................Joe Mudie,  
PHOTO EDITOR  ......................Kevin 0.1!um  Wm ADMINISTRATOR....................... Erik Kushro  

l'hi: ()hSt:rvi.:r i.s rhc indc::pc:11Jc1,r ni:w.:.paper publi.-.hcJ br rh(' :-i,udcni:s of rhi: L'ni•,cn1ry of::.Jotre Dame: du L.11.: ,111d Saini Mary':. College. h Joe., nor m:c~.,s;idl)'" refiecr th~ p1Jlkio uf rht: Jdrninim.1fi0n of cid1<,;r instinnion, The news i:,. rt:plln,.;J ,l.!I :.1cn111udr .m,l ohjecdvdy :IS pm,.c,ible. lJmigncd cditori.16. repre:.en1 1h,· upini()n of the majoriry nf 1he Edimr-in-Chief. M.maging f.dicor, A....-.isr.1nr M.maging Fdiror .md department 1..'\.lirors. Comm\!nurics, lcncrs .im.1 columns prc'>Cnl tl11.! view~ of tlic author!> aml mJI n«-ess;irily 1hrn.c ofTlic Obcrvcr. Vicwpoinr 511,1a· is :iv.iilahlc to all rncmhcr:. ofrht" Notrt' D:1mc/S,1in1 M:uy's co .1munity ~ad ro .,II readers. ·n,c fr!!'~' exprc1-..c;i1m ofv.uying opininm:: rhrough !e'Uers i1. enoourn~t:~­
Contacting The Observer 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Office Mauagcr/Gcneral lnfonnarion GJl-7471 Man.Lging E<littJrlA.stii.stam ME 631-4541 Bminm Office 631-5313 New::, 631-5323 Adveirising 63 t -6900/8840 Viewpoint 631-5303 Sv~tems/Web AJministrator 631-88'19 Sports 631-4543 F~x 631-6927 Scenc-631-4540 Ad E-M,il observer@>d:rrwin,cc.nd.edu S"inr M;1r/s 63 I -4324 News E-M,ii ohserver.ob.mews.1@nd.edu Photo· ' 631-8767 Viewpoint E-Moil ohserver.vicwp<,inr l@nd.edu 


¦ PROGRESSIVE STUDENT AU.IA~JCE 
What Does Industry Have To Do With Us? 
In the four years that I have attended Notre Dame, I have undergone some profound changes. When I return to my hometown of Wheeling, W.Va., and take a look at my city, friends and acquaintances, I appreciate how much they have combined to make me who l am. Distance has given me a new perspective on formative life experiences occurring during my childhood. As I near the end to my time under the Golden Dome, iso­lated in a bubble of safety and shiny, happy people, I now look back on Wheeling and see how many lessons that it, and similar towns. have to offer everyone. 
Located about 60 miles outside of Pittsburgh, Wheeling is the central city in Ohio County. The Ohio and Monongahelia Valleys have been steel centers since the turn of the century. My mother can remem­ber the years of booming prosperity that swept these valleys during her childhood; she recalls when Wheeling had a large downtown center with depart­ment stores and specialty shops, and when the local schools were filled with children, most of whom grew up to work in one of the surrounding steel mills, coal mines or nail plants. 
My memories of Wheeling are not the same. Wheeling, a beautiful city surrounded by sloping hills and well-kept parks. has experienced a steady decline, like most steel towns, since the 1980s. During this peri­od of expanding free trade and foreign competition, 350,000 steelworkers lost their jobs across America. Wheeling was hit hard. The department stores of downtown have virtually disappeared; those that still exist keep shrinking, No specialty shops can be found anymore. Even strip malls have high turnover rates and constant vacancies. I do not know any person my age who works in any of the industries that character­ize the area. The few mills left continue to downsize yearly. 
Steel is not an obsolete product; quite the contrary. Particularly in this time of economic expansion, indus­tries demand more steel than usual due to construction and manufacturing booms that characterize a growing economy, As Wheeling Pittsburgh Steel. the main employer of the area, finally got out of bankruptcy and began to turn a profit again in the early 1990s. United Steelworkers International called a strike against the Wheeling Pittsburgh Steel Corporation in October 19%. Tlw strike lasted 10 months. led to three sui­cides, and made it impossible for me to find a summer jub in my homntown after my sophomore year of col­lege. As the workers wPnt back to work in August 1997 after the corporation agreed to a defined pension plan, the people in the area breathed a sigh of relief and the mills began to run again. 
The stable period did not last long. By the summer of 1998, the world began to experience a severe econom­ic recession as the American economy continued to soar. Russia, Japan. East Asia, and Brazil were hit par­ticularly hard by this recession. In turn, these nations began to illegally dump steel in America at prices below the cost of production in a desperate attempt to get their own industries to work. However, these nations did not help their own economies by selling stoel below costs; instead, they have kept themselves in a virtual state of slavery to the U.S. corporations, who exploit their dire economic conditions while hurting 
=============== the 
Elizabeth Guidi 
domestic industry as we!L Indeed, domestic manufac­turers lost clients as the market became llooded with cheap imports. Ten thousand steelworkers have been laid off in America since the dumping began. 
In March, Clinton and Congress capped the amount of steel imports allowed into the U.S. in an attempt to stop this dumping and "Stand Up for Steel." While this was a small victory for the domestic industry, it only did so much. Foreign competition still threatens the domestic industry. American corporations have proven their world power. The capitalists at the top occupy their places as the wealthiest in the world, while their workers occupy their places as some of the lowest paid in the developed world. Due to the end of the Cold War, this is a lime of relative peace and U.S. domi­nance. The U.S. continues to expand its economic influ­ence throughout the world without also exporting its labor standards and environmental regulations. 
Steel companies only reflect a larger trend occurring among American corporations today. As the propo­nents of free trade claim it lrnlps to enrich the world, the United Stnclworkers of America report that real wages in Mexico fell at least 27 percent between 1993 and 1996, due to NAFTA. The USWA has filed a law­suit to declare NAFTA unconstitutional, claiming it is a treaty and did not pass with a two-thirds majority (it passed 61-35 in the Senate) as necessitated by the Constitution. As free trade expands, the Bureau of Labor Statistics projects that 95 percent of all job growth in the next 10 years will take place in the ser­vice sector, while manufacturing industries are expect­ed to lose another 350,000 jobs. As workers in virtually every manufacturing industry have seen their real wages drop while corporate giants have seen their stocks soar, an enormous discrepancy is emerging in America. Our rich are getting richer; our poor arc get­ting poorer; our American manufacturing workers who achieved middle class status arc watching their stan­dard of living fall beforn their eyes. 
Wheeling has many similarities with other small industrial American towns -South B<rnd, Ind., for example. South Bend is thriving a bit more than Wheeling, primarily because it had a high-ranking uni­versity that helped to pick up the slack when the indus­tries left the area. 
While not everyone at Notre Dame has had my expe­riences growing up, everyone does have the opportuni­ty to examine this issue and its implications while going to school in this once llourishing industrial area (simply take a trip to Gary or Hammond to see lndiana towns which did not have other employers once the industries left). Examine the number of chain restau­rants and stores in South Bend. Then examine the abandoned buildings and rundown neighborhoods in the area. Appreciate the fortune of attending Notre Dame without judging those who do not have the same opportunities. Before advocating economic or political policy, examine the real repercussions /'or all those affected by such.decisions rather than a personal pock­etbook. In conclusion, I am asking the students of Notre Dame to take advantage of the mid-western industrial town in which they live for four ynars. Do not allow your four years here to revolve around classes, bars, and Meijer. I think that the people and the town of South Bend can vastly impq,>vc your nntirc col!PgP experience. 
Elizabeth Guidi is a senior and a member of the Progressive Student Alliance. The PSA column rims every Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those q( the author and not necessarily those o_(The Obsen,er, 

¦ DOONfSBURV GARRY TRUDEAU 

S07l7TAL Y55, THATS /Qf/YNf!:11/6 
"CCW<3RA'TUtAT!ON5.1
APPl!CA-~/?ON

§/R. WA-1& UP a!l!H A Nli/1,J
Ylell?Bt!CI< 

YO// MAYHAVe AL-·
770$.4.R&' MARK.er/NG APPROACH
\ 
GOIN67lJ RMPY8t2NAl?­

70 RMCH PROSP5C­
S&R/Oi/9 

Ml7TW 7lJ TH~ 'll?WBt&.1 CLA'.3!3 Or '04.1 " 
il/13 APPllCANT9. 
"'--· 
IM'~ 
SIR.., 
¦ Quon OF rnE DAY 
,Jt is better that ten guilty persons escape than one innocent suffer.' 
-Sir William Blackstone 

VIEWPOINT 
Tul'sday. April 15, 199tJ --------------------
-------------------------page 13 
¦ Nor PEACE, Bur THE SWORD 
Liberalism Analyzed 
Librrnls am forever "psycho-analyzing" pnoplc who disagree 
with tlmrn. 
Fur rxarnplP. thosi: of.us who oppose child-killing aro accusrd of lining "af'rnirl of strong, lilrnratod women" and must thcr0by hold "rigid" vifiws that deny a woman's right to abortion. Lihnrals claim tlm1 co11survaLives opposn tilings such as baby killing bncaus,· of' a dPsire to kc<'p womon clowntrodclm1 in soci­11ty. Similarly, p('ople who oppose homosexuality are accused of lrnving a "rnprnssml stlxualiLy," whatevflr thaL might meun. I mysdf huvP bnnn told that my disdain for soxual immorality stems from im innate fear ofrny own sexual dflsires. 
or cnurs•~. this linn of argumentation is ludicrous. IL seeks nol 
to engug:o consorvativn prinriplos, but to sugg,~st that the innafo 
motivations of th<' people who express such ideas am con-upt. 
In this s,•nsf', Lh(\ tendMcy to examine the psychological status 
of the rnmmunil:ator or ronsorvativo idnals is ,L subtle form of 
rr.d hominem nttack, lnst<md of Rddrossing tlw issue at hand in 
an objPrtive fashion, limy try to impugn and insult the messen­
g1ir. Tlwrnfnrn, for lihernls, those of us who ,1ppose sodomy are 
d ubbml "rnprnssr!d homosexuals." Tho advantagn of this for tlrn 
li\fl is, of coursH, to bP able to insult their opponents while not 
confronting the incontrovertible fact that Urn aclivt! homosexual 
lifostylH is an abomi­
nation. Got the pic­
ture? 
Woll, tho game of
Sean 
psychoanalysis ran be played both ways, Tlrnrl'l'orn, I ask, 

what aro the psycho­logical underpinnings ________________ of' lilmralisrn? 
. Gn1H'rally speaking, most hbnrals hold what can loosely be described as "feminist" points of vit!W. Modern feminism is, at its core. a disdain for the Lraditional family unit and a profound loathing of Llrn masculine sex. So, using our new politfral psychology, we can say forcer­tain that feminism isn't really so much of a legitimate position as it is an imrn.t,~ foar of masculinity. Feminists and liberals havn rcpressNI IJH'ir masculine sidos out of a profound fear, reaching to the very depths of their being. They are afraid to admit that society needs a paternalistic hierarchy to appropri­at!lly govern tho population. Thny am afraid to concode that t'ach family needs a man at its head. They are afraid to speak of ( ;od us our univ11rsal "father." This fear also manifests itself in the hatn thnL lilwral feminists manifest !'or the Catholic Church, tlrn Pope and conservatives in general, 
Dce,rwr than t_hi~. though, we must use this new psychology to Pxa11111w the oprnl()n Lhat liberals hold of God. At i~s !wart, mod­nrn liberalism is a political movement contnrcrl around two majc'.r issues: the freedom to engage in sexual immorality, and lhe lnmdom to murder children, the elderly and the inconve• niPnl in soci11ty, Of coursn, there are other p11ripheral liberal political domancls, und, to be sure, not all self-described liberals hold these opinions. llowever, the poinl remains valid. In Pmhracing llwsr. irlcologiC1s, one makes llw voluntary or invol­untary assertion that he despises Jesus Christ Liberals seek a frp1•dom that is intimately concerned with things of' this world: indrn1d, tho philosophical undorpinnings ol' lilwralism, whether they choose to admit it or not, remain invalid and incoherent b1?cause th11y lack a spiritual understanding of God's created world or God himsnlr. 
}n c1msistc1)tly demanding the "freedom to" engage in w1cktld11tiss. liberals have ransomed their collective soul for the price of tlrn world. TherPforn. the psychological sttltus of those who hold a modern lib,iral point of view is grievous indeed. Tho psychology of liberalism depends upon on!' holding a deep-seat­ed lrntrrtl of tradition rind order, as well as an innate fear of Llrn truth rugarding the mystt,ry of our colloctivc human existence. 
So to my liberal f'riemb who forevor accusti me of hate, fear and repressed sexuality, l thank you for your concern. I have rtilh,ctod on your thoughts, and huve decided that they are utterly worthless, but J appreciate your vigilauco nonethcloss. In fact, I have writton this column to repay the favor, and to c,rnunm~icatc to you my own insights regarding your psycholog­1cal prolilr.. l lhrnk that any political ideology that is based on hate, fear, and rnprnssion, such as yours, can bo very harmful not only to people around you, but to your immortal souls. And to llmt mut. for tho status of your immortal souls, ttnd your oturnal salvation. I will continue to pray. 
Vinck 

Sean Vinck is a sophomore f>IS major. His column appears every olher Tuesday. 
The viPws e.t:pressed in this column are those ofthe author ancl uot necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Samantha Snyder is a senior living in 1/oward llall. the former co-president ofND/SMC Hight to l,ife. and a prospectiue member ofwhat she hopes to he an emerging coalition ofpro-life lJPmocrat.s (anyone want to join me?) The Right to Uje Column runs ever!J other Tuesday. She dedicates this colwnn to her brother. Dylan. 
The vif'ws expressed in this column are thmw ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 



By JENNIFER ZATORSKI against women. The campaign was started in 1991 by Assisram Scene Edimr a group of men in Canada in response to the mas­
sacre or 14 women at Universite de Montreal engi­n an effort to promote awareness of sexual neering school. assault and to educate people about the issue, the Wearing a white ribbon is a personal pledge never
I

Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination (CARE) has to commit, condone nor remain silent about violence 
designated this week as Sexual Assault against women. Awareness Week. CARE bas chapters on both the "Only men can stop rape. They can help their peers Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses. change their attitudes about respecting a woman's 
James Schuyler and Lori Gundler serve as wishes and listening to what the woman is saying," Presidents of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's chap­Gundler said. ters. respectively. Ava Preacher, assistant dean of the Tonight, members of CARE will perform their skit College of Arts and Letters at Notre Dame, and "When a Kiss is Not Just a Kiss," which was adopted 
Catherine Pittman, associate profassor of psy­chology at Saint Mary's, act as advisors for CARE. Laurel Eslinger, the Director of Sex Offense Services (SOS), South Bend, serves as a consultant and runs training sessions for new members or CARE. Schuyler explained the rea­sons for the program. 
"We arc mainly an educational program. We're hen~ to raise consciousness about prob­lems of sexual assault, our main focus being rape, both here on campus and in society in general," Schuyler said. 
"Rape is a problem that is often not taken seriously enough. Too many times the victim is blamed and thn perpetrator goes unpunished. People need to realize the extent of this crime and understand how it happens so we can pre­vent it," Gundler added. 
The week of' activities began Monday with a candlelight vigil at the Grotto, honoring the vic­tims of sexual assault. Those in attendance were givr.n candles and participated in prayers. 
The SOS Clothesline Project was displayed at Saint Mary's College. The project is made up of T-shirts painted by survivors of sexual assault to represent their experiences and their heal­ing. The exhibit will also be open today. 
"The dothosline project can hPlp people to realize what a horrible and traumatic experi­ence rape really is," Gundler said. 
The members of CARE also handed out pink and white ribbons during lunch and dinner at both the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's dining halls Monday. The pink ribbon is commemora­tive or sexuol assault awareness week and when worn symbolizes one's consciousness of the issue. The white ribbons are being used for the first time this year as an effort to involve men in the effort to stop sexual assault against women. 

"Rape is often thought of as a woman's issue freshmen and deals with the issue of acquaintance because women are most often the victims," Schuyler rape. It is used as a way of depicting the views of the said. "It's really more importantly a male issue different characters involved in the rape -the victim, because men are most often the rapists. Also the peo­the rapist and the two friends. The audience has the ple who arc being raped are our sisters. mothers, opportunity to ask questions both of the members in girlfriends and wives." character and of the other members of CARE. 
CARE adopted the White Hibbon Campaign from the "The skit is probably our best instrument of educa­charitable organization in Canada committ_ed to urg­tion because it is peer-based," Schuyler said. ing men to speak out against violence against women. Currently the members of CARE perform this skit as 
The White Ribbon Campaign is the largest effort in part of Saint Mary's freshman orientation and to vari­the world of men working to end men's violence ous dorms on the Notre Dame campus throughout the year. The group finds it difficult to schedule the skit for all of the dorms -less than half of the dorms par­ticipated in the skit this year. Consequently, Schuyler is pursuing the possibility of making their skit a mandatory part of the Notre Dame freshman orienta­tion program. The members have also performed their skit for the administrations and freshman class­es at other universities such as Purdue University, Indiana University and St. Joseph College, Ind. 
Wednesday night, CAHE is sponsoring a panel dis­cussion on sexual assault with representatives from SOS. Notre Dame Campus Security, Notre Dame's Office of Resident Life, St. Joseph Medical Center and 
South 13end Police. The purpose of the discus­


jeans in protest of the ruling. The jeans will b1i available to be signed at all events during the wc11k and will be sent to the Italian Parliament with a letter of opposition to the verdict. 
The members of CAHE hope that the activities of Sexual Assault Awareness Week will raise conscious­ness about the rape crimes and how to help victims deal with the aftermath of sexual violence. Anyone interested in joining CARE should contact James Schuyler at schuyler.1@nd.edu or Lori Gundler at gund1161@saintmarys.edu. For more information about the White Ribbon Campaign visit www.whiterib­bon.ca. 
sion is to explain the policy issues involved in reporting and documenting sexual assault. 
"The panel of administrators will be very informative because a lot of people don't understand policy," Schuyler said. 
Thursday night, there will be a panel of sur­vivors discussion. Notre· Dame, Saint Mary's and South Bend women will share their experi­ences with sexual assault. 
"These women have dealt with so much, and they care enough to come and tell their stories so that others can learn from them. I think that they will make tlrn issue morn rnal for people," Gundler said. 
Friday has b11Pn designated "Wear .leans Day" by CAHE in protest of' an Italian court finding that women wearing jeans cannot lw raped. 
In its ruling, the court said: "It is common knowledge ... that jeans cannot ,wen be partly rnmoved without the elfoctive help of tlw per­son wearing them ... and it is impossible if tlw victim is struggling with all IH1r might." 
Judges, lawy,irs and politicians have protest­ed the verdict. A federation of Italian hous11­wives is sponsoring an "easy-off jc,rns" contPst to demonstrate tlrnir bclid' that th,, ruling is ridiculous. Italian femaln lawmakers hav1\ declared a "skirt strike" and have called on ltalian women to wear jeans in protest. 
"The ruling in Italy is based on the kind of ignorance that pnrpetuates the rape culture we live in. People always want to say, 'She should have done something differently. She asked l'or 

The Obseiverlliz Lang it. She did something wrong,"' Gundler said. 
Students, faculty and community members gathered at the Grotto In addition to wearing jeans on Friday, CAHE 
Monday night to take part in a candle light reflection on Sexual Assault. 
urges students and faculty to sign a pair of blue 

from Brown University. The skit involves four college 

-------~ 
Beene 
O
THE 
Tuesday, April 13, 1999 BSERVER -------------------page 15 

Today 
CARE skit: "When a Kiss is Not Just a Kiss" 
• 
Hesburgh Library Auditorium, 8 p.m. 

• 
Food will be served 


Wed~esday 
Panel Discussion 
• 
With representatives from Sex Offense Services, Notre Dame Campus Security/Police, the Notre Dame Office of Hesidence Life, St. Joseph Mt-~dical Ct-mter and the South Bend Police n,~partment. 

• 
Sorin Hoom, LaFortune Student Center, 8 p.m. 

• 
Food will be served 


Tht-o-•sday 
Panel of Survivors 
• 
Foster Room, Lafortune Student Center, 8 p.m. 

• 
Food will be served 


F~iday 
"Wear Jeans Day" in protest of an Italian court finding that women wearing jeans cannot be raped. 
All Week 
Sex Offense Services Clothesline Project 
• 
Le Mans Lobby, Saint Mary's, April 13 

• 
Hesburgh Library Lobby, April 14-16 


Wear pink or white ribbons in commemoration of all those whose lives have been altered by Sexual Assault. 
Sign jeans to be sent to the Italian Parliament. 
¦ UNIVERSITY COUNSELING CENTER 

"What happ1:ned to nw'' I low did this happen to me? Why did this happen to mn'! Why did I act tl1e way that I did while il was happening'! What will I do the next time I'm in a similar situation?" 
These arc the questions that many women who have HXpPrienred ,rnxual vielimizaiiun ask themselves. The prornss of' answoring thesn questions can bP very painful. So painful that oflentimcs the woman chooses to sort through them with lhe help of a psychotherapist. 
To umforstand lh<i plight of a woman who has been sexually victimized one must first undcrst1md tho differ­ent if'rms that describe thE' vktimization. Sexual harass­ment refors to any unwekomed sexual advance, verbal or nmi-verbal, of an offensive sexual nature. Sexual assault is a form ofsexual harassment. It involves unwcl­comPd touching of another person. It can be defined as any unwantlld physical activity forced by one person on another. 
Sexual battery is a form of sexual assault. It entails a particular type of touch, namely pemitration. Sexual bat­tery can be defined a<; forcnd anal, oral or vnwnal ponc­tration by any object, except when these act'i are per­formed for bona tide medical purposes. 
Hape is n form ol' sexual battery because it entails sexu­al intercours,i. Hap<' can c-ither be at the hands of a stranger, nn acquainl.nnce, a dale, or rommilted against the victim by mor" than Clllll person lt.g.. gang rapn). 
Sexual predators exist and they hunt for pcuplo who will make for eai-y prey. They hunt for women who appmir to rnanifost rortain drnractPristics. Nam1•ly, they look for lhosn who seem to b,i: (al pMplr. pluasors, (b) unassnrtivc. Id na1ve uhout the adversarial dy1mmics alcohol abusers. It. is not dif'ficult for prodators to find women matching these characteristics on a college cam­pus. 
In !'act, research consistently identifies l'reshmen women as the most likely victims of sexual crimes on campus. llowever, predators are not looking for fresh­men per se, they are people who appear lo them to be safo to victimize (e.g., the kind of person who will not put up too much resistance and/or will not give them trouble afterwards). This does not mean that the victim is to be "blamed" for having these characteristics. It only means that she may be more vulnerable to exploitation. She is not responsible for the assault, and she did not "ask" to be harmed. The predator is tlrn one who is responsible for causing harm. Also, not all perpetrators have to fit the description of a predator. The young man who gets drunk to celebrate some successful experience and in a drunken stupor forces himself sexually on a woman also contributes to the rising number ofvictims. 
What-a.II forms ofsexual victimization have in common is that thoy psychologically register as traumatic. A trau­matic event is experienced as sudden, threatening and overwhelming. The reaction of people who are trauma• ti;,.A,d {due to a rape, a robbery, a. car accident or witness­ing a tragedy) often reaches a threshold that warrants the clinical diagnosis of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSDl. Even iflimy haw roprossed the evtmt (or parls of the ovent), the people who sutfor from PTSD know some­tl1ing is wrong. The key elements of PTSD arc: la) intru­sive thought.-; and foelings (such as ihi.-;hbaeks ,ind nighl­manis) ma.king it snom as if she is reliving Urn ovent, (bl attmnplS to avoid experiences that are reminiscent of the ev·enl or elidt negative thoughts and feelings related to 
lance of Uw c1nvironrrnmt so that they arn not suddenly threatened and/or ovetv\'lielmed again. The treatment for PTSD prinmrily involves grieving and making sense of what happened. For many people the 
· toughest. hurdle to clear entails accepting that bad things happen to good people. The victim of a sexual crime typi­cally aHempfs to sort through who is to blame for what happened. Often, the victim attempt<; to regain control by erroneously taking responsibility for events for which she had no control over at the time. This leads to shame and self-blame. It also means that she is less likely to confront the perpetrator or pursue a chance at justice via legal means. 
The healing process is difficult but possible. Support fi·om significant others is extremely important. The peo­ple the victim lives with are the people most capable to detect that something is wrong and to encourage her to get help. Moreover, they can challenge any self-blaming arguments. Sometimes the significant-other is so close to the victim that they can be considered a usecondary vic­tim" and they too may need to get help. Help is available. If you have experienced a sexual trauma, whether it was recent or a long time ago, or if you would like to know how to support a friend, please call the University Counseling Center or visit the Self Help section of the UCC web page at www.nd.edu/-ucc. 
The intent of this series of articles is not to provide counseling but to pro1,ide information about a variet.y of mental health l,opics. To seek help with your indil.'idual concerns. please contact the Unil'ersity Counseling Center at 631-7336 tu schedule an appointment. 
.... 


page 16 The Observer• SPORTS Tuesday, April 13, 1999 
¦ MAJOR lH\GUE BASEBALL 
Huskey lifts Seattle to victory 
¦ \ftJmvmv's GOLF 
. -...--­
Associated Pre<s 
SEATTLE 

Butch llnskey drove in thrN' runs with a hl;mer and a dou­ble and rookie right-hander Frnddy Carda won again as thP Seattle Mariners beat the Oakland Athletics 6-3 Monday night. 
lluskey. who is splitting the MnrinNs' left f'ield job with John l\lubry. broke a 2-2 tic with a two-run Jionrnr in the sixth inning off Jimmy llaynes (0-2), an 11-game winner last season. 
Domingo Cedeno, the sixth shortstop used by the Mariners this season. added a two-run homer after lluskcy's 419-foot drive to left. 
Huskey homered after Edgar Martinez singled, while Cedeno, sigm1d as a free -ag£mt Sunday after Carlos Guillen was lost for the season with a knee injury, homered following a single by Dan Wilson. 
Garcia, a 22-year-old f'rom Venezuela who was acquired in a three-for-one trade for Randy Johnson with Houston last July 31, made his second major league slart after beating the Chicago White Sox 7-3 last Wednesday night. ln 6 2-3 innings against the A's, Garcia allowed three runs and eight hits with two walks and five strikeouts. 
Garcia gave up two home 

runs, including Tony Phillips' 
third of the season in the sev­
enth. 
Oakland's Matt Stairs tied the score at 2 in the sixth with his first homer of the season. It came after Seattle's David Bell homered in the fifth. 
The Mariners took a 1-0 lead 

in the second on consecutive 
doubles by Russ Davis and 
Huskey. 
The Athletics tied the score in 

the f'ifth when Jason Giambi's 
single scored Miguel Tejada 
from second. Jason McDonald 
went from first to third on 
Giambi's hit and tried to score 
when the ball got away from 
catcher Dan Wilson, but Wilson 
recovered and tagged out 
McDonald on a close play. 
Haney went six innings, giv­

ing up six runs and nine hits 
with two walks with five strike­
outs. 
Jose Mesa got four outs for 
his second save. 
Toronto 7, Tampa Bay 1 
David Wells pitched five shutout innings before being hit in the leg by a hard grounder and Tony Fernandez went 4­for-4 as the Toronto Blue Jays beat Tampa Bay 7-1 in their home opener Monday night. 
Jose Canseco, who hit 46 home runs l'or Toronto last year and then signed with the Devil Rays, launchf'd a 459-foot homer into SkvDome's fifth deck in the ninth inning. It was his 399th career homer. 
Making his first start in Toronto since being acquired in February in the Roger Clemens trade, Wells (2-0l struck out eight and walked none. He gave up five hits, including Randy Winn's single off his right shin leading off the sixth. 
Wells fell to the ground and yelled in pain. but was able to get to his feet. He walked off the field under his own power to a loud ovation. 
Wells spent the re:;t of the game icing his shin in the club­house. He's expected to be OK. 
A crowd of 37,160 saw the Blue Jays win. About 6,000 seats in the upper deck are now covered with a tarp, leav­ing the ballpark with a capacity of 44,300. 
Fernandez singled in the sec­
ond to set up a run. He doubled 
during a three-run third, dur­
ing which the Devil Rays hurt 
themselves in the field. 
After Jose Cruz Jr. doubled 
and Shawn Green walked, a 
pickoff try by Tony Saunders 
(1-1) sailed into center field, 
advancing the runners. One 
batter later, Carlos Delgado hit 
a sharp grounder off the pitch­
er's ankle, sending Saunders to 
the dirt and the ball into foul 
territory. 
Cruz scored, and after catch­
er John Flaherty's throw was 
late, Green also scored as first 
baseman Fred McGriff argued 
the call. Fernandez doubled, 
and Delgado scored on a 
passed ball. 
Alex Gonzalez homered in the 
fourth and Fernandez's two­
run single in the fifth made it 
7-0. 
Canseco homered off Graeme 
Lloyd. 
Saunders gave up nine hits in 

four-plus innings. While back­ing up a throw to the plate in the second, he bumped into Toronto's on-deck hitter and fell to the turf. 
Atlanta S, Philadelphia 6 
The wind whipped around Veterans Stadium, the late afternoon shadows crept across the mound and an all-out brawl erupted in Lhe upper deck. 
The Phillies' home opener against th<' Atlanta Braves was sort of like the Jerry Springer show being staged at Candh~stick Park. 
Javy Lopez stopped the mad­ness with a tiebreaking. two­run homer off Ken Ryan in the eighth Monday as the Braves hPat. thfl Phillies 8-6. 
It was a memorable opener at the Vet, with fall-like weath­er conditions, smooth takeoffs and landings by ''Rocket Man" and "Kite Man," and a home run derby of sorts in the last three innings. 
At Limes, the pitchers could barely see the batters and vice versa. When shadows resulting from the 3:05 p.m. start finally rctreaLed, Lhe Braves won a slugfest and gave the Phillies their third home-opening loss in five years. 
"The sun was right in my eyes so strong that there were times that l couldn't see the batter," said Braves starter John Smoltz, who struck out eight in six innings but got a no-decision. "And the wind was bad. almost like Candlestick conditions." 
There were afternoon talk­show conditions in the center field upper deck in the bottom of the fourth. 
·No arrests were reported in a 
widespread melee in front of 
the Phillies' new jumbotron in 
dead center. Smoltz, second 
base umpire Eric Gregg and 
others stopped and looked 
around to see what all the. 
cheers and commotion were 
about. 
Several participants tumbled 
down the aisles and across 
rows of seats before security 
restored order. 
"I thought they were going to 
fall into the stadium," Braves 
manager Bobby Cox said. 
"Can't have that in a family set­
ting." 

Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds 
Photo courtesy of Sports Information 

Junior co-captain Andrea Klee fired rounds of 85, 82 and 87 at last weekend's Indiana Invitational. 
Irish place 12th in Indiana Invite 
Special to the Observer 
The Notre Dame women's golf team slipped to 12th in final-day action of the l 3-team Indiana Invitational, at the par-74, 6, 134-yard Indiana University Coif Course. 
The Irish opened with 
· rounds of' 339 and 332 in Saturday's action but slipped from 11th to 12th place after shooting a 344 in the final round for a 1015 total. Indiana won the team title with a 934 total, edging Ohio State by three strokes. 
Notre Dame's final-day effort included an 83 from junior Brigid Fisher, an 84 from sophomore Mary Klein and an 85 from sophomore Shanr­Smith. Junior co-captain Andrea Klee added an unchar­acteristic 87 while the Irish three out the 90 posted by junior Beth Cooper. 
Klein (79-80-84) led the Irish in the 70-player event by fin­ishing tied for 29th, followed by Klee (85-82-87) and Smith (87-88-85). Fisher (88-86) and Cooper (89-84-90) rounded out the Irish contingent. 
Ohio State's Lisa Strom (76­76-79) took individual medal­ist honors, beating teammate Natalie Mosher (76-79-76) and Minnesota's Kristi Weichcrt (79-75-77) in a playoff. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
ILOST & FOUND IHotel Help Wanted  already.  
,.___FO_R_RE_N_T __.llL-_F_O_R_S_A_LE __.I  I PERSONAL 
Holiday Inn/Univ. Area needs full &  _ _  Doot. Dool. Dool.  
part time help for Rest. & Bar  
Lost: 100 CDs that were in a black Server.Bartender.Night Auditor.PM  BED 'N BREAKFAST NEW Rates Phone Cards  Fax it fast at THE COPY SHOP in  Patrick,  
CaseLogic carrying case. Lost in Van Driver.Desk Clerk.Banquet  REGISTRY 282 min. $20 call 258·4805  LaFortune. FAX Sending and  What do ya think? Should we maul  
_,.;  LaFortune the night of 2/26/99. Capt. &  Receiving: 631·FAX1  the guy on the chalkboard behind  
Monetary reward being offered if Servers.Outstanding  219·291-7153 GUITAR-Fender Electric/Acoustic,  our heads or just jump our the win•  
lound. No questions asked. benefits,including room discounts  cut-away body, 1 yr old. $350 or  When you need copies ...  dow?  
Please call Brian at 4-1126 w/ any Apply at 515 Dixieway North.  516 BDRM HOMES. NEAR CAM­B/O. Includes case and stand.  We're OPEN!!!  
info.  PUS. FURN. 272-6551 Call Greg at 271-0138  Sun, oh sun, where are you?  
Wanted: 2 room mates lor 5 bed·  $175/PERSON.  THE COPY SHOP  
!REWARD! room house on St. Peter Street.  Beautiful brass bed,queen size.with  LaFortune Student Center  Big Sky,  
Blue LL.Bean backpack lost/stolen  STAYING IN SOUTH BEND FOR orthopedic mattress set and deluxe  631-COPY  It's Moo-Ha.  
04/01 in parking lot b/t Lyons & Call Tony. 634-1694  THE SUMMER??? frame.New,never used,still in plas­ 
Morrissey. If you have it or know  Lovely live-bedroom, single family tic.$235  Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight  Smith,  
where it is, please follow your con· YOUR BABY NEED A HOME?  house available for sub·lease. 219-862·2082  Fri: 7:30am"7:00pm  Heard you got some lovin'.  
science is, call 4-2900 to return it to OUR HOME NEEDS A BABY!  About a mile lrom campus.  Sat: Noon-6:00pm  
its owner. Loving married couple seeks new­ Sale neighborhood. Clean. Two Furniture for sale:couch, chairs,  Sun: Noon•Midnight  Sean 'Smith: It was the most phys1·  
THANK YOU! born to adopt.Waiting to shower a  window air-conditioners. entertainment center, beds  cal I've been with a girl in a year.  
child with lots of love  Washer and dryer, stove, refrige. Call 243-2856  Beth,  
Large, clouble pocket L.L. Bean & attention .Will provide strong fami­ Love you and Cookie.  Someone get me out of here  
backpack w/ Pietasters patch. $50 ly environment and secure financial  Call 634-0562 for info. FOR SALE: bed, couch, kitchen  Mike  
cash reward if returned w/contents. future.All allowable medical & legal  table and more  I need to go home  
No questions asked. expenses paid.For more  Summer sublease CALL 243-7686  LOOKING for a great part-time job  
information about us,please call toll  ND Apts x4415  next fall? The Copy Shop in  hello  
call 634-1061 free 1-888-652·8422  LaFortune is now accepting STU­ 
TICKETS 
....  Dan and Tracy  HOUSE:SUMMER SUBLEASE  DENT applications for '99·'00. Only  ho are you?  
Lost Glasses: black, metal,  Bright, handsome 2 BR very close  a few student positions are avail·  
oval, Safilo frames; clip on ·working through adoption attorney  to Main Gate on Pokagon. AC, ROD STEWART 3rd ROW  able so apply now.  i'mfine  
sunglasses; black case.  W&D, garage, yard, tu/I kitchen with APRIL 14 .... 272-7233  
EARN $6K-$9K/YR EXTRA!  M/W and OW. furnished. 631-8084  ARE YOU AN ADOPTED WHITE  whatcha doin?  
If found call Paul @ 4-4765 Local Area Counselors  I need xtra Graduation Tickets.  FEMALE,  
needed.Enjoy cross-cultural  VARSITY CLUBS OF AMERICA Will pay generously!!!  INDIANA-BORN ON JULY 14?  nothin'  
experiences?Support families andWANTED  1 bdrm suite -sleeps 4 Call x-1237 ask for Mike  REPLY WITH YEAR AND CITY OF  
int'! nannies.  May 14-21 $700 or selling gradua•  BIRTH TO 2776 CLARY TRACE,  that's cool  
tion week ltme share. Tickets to Dave Matthews concerts  ROSWELL, GA 30075.  
AMERICAN FL YER trains ­top Contact Kristen 888-222-2966  at Giants Stadium. If interested call  goodnight  
dollar paid, call Dave al 273-9015 knelson@app.childcrest.com  For details 1·219-875-4335. 2047.  Heather... only four more days.  goodnight  
You'll make it. I'm proud of you  

Tues<lay, April 13, 1999 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT · Page 17 

Howmany Grotto trips left( What will you do with the rest of your life? 
LoOk up at.the Dome. Ask Her. 



For more information on Holy Cross' 
one-year Candidate Program contact: 
Fr. Jim King, C.S.C. or Fr. Bill Wack, C.S.C. 
1-6385 
vocation.1@nd.edu 



ANSWER* 
THE CALL\())/ 
page 18 The Observer• SPORTS Tuesday, April 13, 1999 
¦ NCAA 8ASKHBAU 
Duke's Brand -will forego final two years of eligibility 
Associared Press 
DUHIIAM, N.C. 

Elton flrand. the r.onsensus national player of the year, will announce Wednesday that he will forgo his final two }(Jars at Duke and enter the NBA draft. The Associated Press has learned. 
A source close to Brand, speaking on the condition of anonymity, confirmed Monday that tho 6-fout-8, 270-pound suphomori> ('enter would bflcome the first Duke player to leave school early for a rhance to play in lhf' NRA. 
The school had said earlier Mondav that Brand and asso­ciate. head basketball coach Johnny Dawkins would hold a rwws conference Wednesday at the school to announce the decision. 
Brand, who averaged 17.8 points and 9.8 rebounds last season. was the first sopho­lll Dre to win the John R. Wooden Award, presented by tlrn Los Angeles Athletic Club. and be was also honored this seuson bv The AP, the Atlanta Tipof'f Club and the LJnitPd States Basketball Writers Association as national player oftheyear. 
The student newspaper at Duke. The Chronicle, also reported Monday that sopho­m o rn point guard William Avery had decided to forgo the rest of his eligibility and apply for the draft. 
"Nobody has told me it is 
true," sports information director Mike Cragg said. 
The Chronicle. citing unnamed sources close to the basketball team, said Averv had decided to leave school. · 
Attempts Monday to reach Brand, Avery and Dawkins were unsuccessful. 
Another source said fresh­man c,irey Mairnette remains undecided ahout his future, TlH~ Chronicle said. 
Averv has met with coach Mike krzyzewski, who is recovering from hip replace­ment surgery, The Chronicle reported. The newspaper said Krzyzewski is unaware of Avery's final decision. 
The potential loss of Brand and Avery, coupled with the graduation of sPniors Trajan Langdon and Taymon Domzalski. would rost Duke much of the core of the 37-2 Leam that reached the NCAA championship, wlH're the Blue Devils lost to Connecticut. 
However, the Duke program has recpived national letters of intent from four high school seniors who were selected to this vear's McDonald's r\11-Ai{rnrica team. 
Players who have announced their intention to leave school early include junior guard Steve Francis of Maryland and junior forward Albert White of Missouri. 
Underclassmen have until 
May 15 to announce their 
intentions. 
KAT Photo 

After leading his team to the NCAA Championship game, player of the year Elton Brand has decided to
Recycle the Observer 

enter the 1999 NBA draft. Teammates William Avery and Corey Maggette may follow close behind. 

..ould you like to DISCUSS 
Join us for the Third AnnualRetreat for lesbian, gay, and bisexual undergraduate students, their friends, and supporters. 
1---------¦ 

I April 16-17, 1999 ·----------• 
___ I
,__._.._,

•
Explore your gifts and the milestones in your life ,.,.-, ...... //Applications due"\

• 
Meet new people 



\ Friday, April 9th/
• Discuss how we are all called to follow Christ ' ...... .,,,.
--..... ----/ 

• Examine ways to reach out to the ND/ St. Mary's community· I 
t 

For more information or to register, please cat/:t Student-led •Student talks Alyssa: 4·1277 Matt: 4·3668 
Tami: 1-3016 Email: schmitz.8@nd.edu 
-


• Conversation • Prayer 
Applications available @Campus Ministiy: 0MPU5 103 Hesburgh Library or 1lZ Badin Ha!l 
iv11Nl5TRY 



page 20 

The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, April I3, 1999 
---~~--~ 
¦ SOFTBALL 

Irish remain undefeated in conference play 
By MATT OLIVA 
Spores Wrict·r 
The Notre Dame softball team took two more games from conference opponent Villanova Monday to remain undefeated at 6-0 in the Big 
East. 
The Irish improved their overall record to 27-15 after keeping Vi.llanova (24-9-2, 3-3) scoreless for Lhc entire day. 
Notre Dame held the Wildcats to only six hits in the two Monday games which were postponed from Sunday because of rain. 
In the first game, Jennifer Sharron (10-6) earned the Irish win. She pitched six innings, giving up no runs and only two hits. She struck out two of 22 batters. 
Angela Bessolo came on for the final inning and picked up the save. The pitchers com­bined to allow only three Wildcat base runners as far as second base and none to third. 
Both teams were held off the scoreboard until Notre Dame broke through in the fourth inning. The Irish scored one run in each of the fourth, fifth and sixth innings and had seven hits for the game. 
Catcher Kris McCleary and shortstop Mel Alkire each had two hits for the Irish, and Alkire scored two of the team's 
three runs. Hebecca Eimen scored the other run. Jarrah Myers and McClearv each had one RBI. • 
Jn game two, the Irish pounded out 1 l hits for a 4-0 victory. Fight players had at least one hit for the Irish, led by first baseman Amy Laboe who went 3-for-4 with one RBI. 
Alkire and McClearv hit back-to-back home runs for the Irish to give them a Lhree­run lead. They addfld one more run in the seventh to securn the lead and win their fifth in a row. 
Notre Dame also racked up three stolen bases and were caught between bases only once. Laboe, Lizzy Lemire and Danielle Klayman each swiped onP base. 
Bessolo (9-5) started on the mound in the second game and recorded the win. She pitched five innings and struck out three batters. 
Michelle Moschel relieved Bessolo and pitched the last two innings to pick up the save. She struck out three of the six batters she faced. 
Villanova once again man­aged only three hits for the entire game. 
The Irish will host Indiana for a doubleheader Wednesday before getting back to confer­ence play Saturday. They will host Boston College Saturday. 
Saint Mary's drops 
two games at Alma 
By TRACY HARBER 
Sports Wrirer 
The Saint Mary's softball team dropped both games of last Saturday's doubleheader at Alma College, losing each of the conference games in five innings, 11-0 and 13-1. 
"We are going to try to put the games from Saturday behind us and look ahead to Calvin," said sophomore pitcher Anne Senger. 
The Alma team features quality hitters, including All­American Brandee Brower, who boasts a .647 batting average. They also boast ace pitcher Becky Pierce, pitched her fourth perfect game Saturday. She leads the league with a 0.37 ERA. 
Freshman pitcher Kristin Martin said she felt her team had a down weekend of which third-ranked Alma took advantage. 
"While we had an off day," said Martin. "The season is far from over." 
Anne Senger pitched both games for the Belles, a total of ten innings. Although she had a rough outing Saturday, she is among the leaders in the league in both ERA and victo­ries, along with fellow pitcher Martin. 
Freshman infielder Jennifer Wyatt provided the only hit of both games for the Belles in the last inning of the second game. 
In addition, senior captain and outfielder Johna lndriolo injured her shoulder in the second game. 
"It was especially disheart­ening when Johna hurt her shoulder." said Wyatt. 
The Belles will try to turn around their rocky start and avenge their 1998 loss against Calvin College today at 3:30 p.m. 
Got Sports? Email us at Observer.sports.1 @nd.edu 




For time and location of meeting, call: 1-8041 NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C Sr.Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C. 
All Meetings are private and confidential. 


~ ~ 
Thanks to the 216 Runners & Walkers, the Christmas in April Benefit Run ~as able to raise $1408 for Christmas in April. Thanks to all ~ho participated! 
>I ~ >-1 




.---------------------------·-------------------­
-

Tuesday, April l3, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 21 
¦ TRACK ANO FIELD 
West races to victory in I 00-and 200-meters 
l\y BRIAN HOBBINS Marshaun West provided is phenomenal. he is winning .'i11om Writer highlight performances in the all his races," Watson said. I00-mcter and 200-meter Apparently, Watson was tak­
Fighting tlw wnather, the dashes. Por the second weok ing notes. Irish rnl'usod to let. forocious in a row, ho won both events finishing the 3000 steeple­gusts take lhe wind out of with times of 10.68 seconds chase in 9:08.14. he won first­their sails as thn mnn nmorgod and 21 86 soconds, respective­place honors, odging out the with a third-place finish and ly, and set the t()ne for the nearest competition by nearly thn wonwn camp in s11cmHI at whole team. catching the a half-minute. a highly anticipated nwnl in admiration of freshman dis­"People go out l'ast, not real­West Lal'ayntln, Ind., last tancn standout I.ukn Watson. izing thQ how much strength it Wl'Pk(\JHI. "Hight now. Marshaun West requires," Watson stated. "The 
CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS CHECK US OUT ON: rentnet.com 
• 
FURNISHED 1 AND 2 BEDROOM SPACIOUS APARTMENTS 

• 
LARGE CLOSETS 

• 
DECORATOR BLINDS ON ALL WINDOWS 

• 
TENNIS, VOLLEYBALL & BASKETBALL COURTS 

• 
WALKING DISTANCE TO NDU 

• 
FLEXIBLE LEASES AVAILABLE 


CALL TODAY!!! (219) 272-1441 
MEMBER 
APARTMENTcampusview@michianatoday.com ASSOCIATION 
Of INDIANA. INC. 

EErJf, ·..,i -
.... }Er.;
. . . 
-
. 
.W •• i ...... 
~ 
' ' .' ', ., ' 

'•;, ,. " , ...4.J 


"Reporters, after all, have the right to ask any questions they want to. For one thing, it's what they are expected to do by their editors. But we have no obligation co answer them. 'No comment' beats a dumb comment every time," 
-frum Chapter J. l.,ar11 10 Kap Your M1111th Slmt 

I: H~rpcrCollinsPub/15/,('r, 
competition just faded out over the last mile." 
Watson also noted Mike Brown's performance in the pole vault as particularly impressive. 
"It was good to seo Brown clearing 17 feet, 5 inches on a really windy day. There were nasty conditions, especially for the pole vault," he said. 
Brown's jump. officially 17 feet, 5 1/2 inches was enough to win the competition, 
/\ntonio Arce, Chris Cochran and Phil Mishka also turn(l(J in solid performances on the men's side. Arce won the 1500 with a time of 3:54.9, while Cochran and Mishka placed second in the 400 and 800, respectively. 
Despite the men's best efforts. their score of 173 points left them well shy of first place Central Michigan and second place Purdue. 
The women's score was good enough !'or a second­place finish, just shy of Purdue. who enjoyed the homo advantage. 
All-Americans JoAnna Deeter and Alison Klemmer 

set the pace f'or llrn women in 
the distance events, both pro­
ducing big wins. Deeter's time 
of' 9:35.41 in the :rnoo not only 
earned her a provisional 
NCAA qualification but placos 
in the Purdue and Notre Dame 
record books for meet and 
speed records. 
Teammate Chrissy Kuenster 
was right on Dneter's heels for 
a sBcond place finish, just 
under a minute aft11r Deetnr. 
Alison Klemnrnr also set a 
meet record in the 5000 with 
her 17:03.6 finsih. Kl1imrnnr 
said she was surprisnd with 
her record setting perl'or­
manco. 
"I am very happy with thn way I raced because I was going out there to help team­mates get a good times, I was excited to g1it such a good time," Klemmcr said. 
Klemmer and Deeter, along 
with a s1ilnct fow others, will 
compete nnxt wnnkend at tho 
prestigious Mount Sac 
Invitational. 
"There will bo better compe­
tition," said Klemmer. who 
said she has yet to be pushod 
in the outdoor season. 
Jennifer Englehardt contin­ued her rnign in the high jump, clearing 5 foot, 9 :3/4 inches en route lo a second­place finish. Englehardt noted improvement from previous jumps. 
"I gained a liltle more con­trol over problems in this meet," she said. "llopel'ully one of these moets it will come together." 
Hurdle star Nadia Schmiedt also made strides for the women, claiming first place in the 400 hurdles and third place in thr 100 hurdles. 
"The conditions wern pretty \\'indy, I was happy to stay under a minute in the 400," Schmiedt said. "Thero was a headwind in the first 1OOm which sets up the pace for the whole race." 
Freshman sensation Liz Grow also overcame blustery winds to grab a victory in tho 400 with a time of 55.83. Grow, emulating sprint star Marshaun Wnst also grablwd a second victory in thn 200 with a timn of 25.cn. 
Grow and Wost will lrnV<' to hold thn fort down on the sprint sidn as compntition picks up during thn next two weeks at the Mount Sac Invitational and Drake Belays. 
Interested in writing sports, copy editing or production? 
Call 
Observer sports at 1-4543 

page 22 The Observer• SPORTS Tuesday, April 13, 1999 
¦ NHL 
Oilers bite Sharks in 5-4 OT victory 
Associated Press 
SAN JOSE, Calif. 

Tom Poti scored with l :05 left in overtime as the Edmonton Oilers beat the San Jose Sharks 5-4 Monday night and clinched the final playoff berth in the Western Conference. 
The Oilers' Dnug Weight passed from hehinrl the net to Poli, who scored from 15 feet out on the left to give Edmonton a win in a game in which it had twice come from behind. 
The Oilers went up six points on Calgary in their late-season race for the final spot. The Flames still have three games to go and can.tie their Alberta Province rivals in victories and points, but the Oilers have the tie-breaker by winning the season series. 
Todd Marchant's second goal of the game, with just 18 seconds left in regulation play, had tied the game 4-4 after San Jose had scored two quick goals to lead with a minute lrft in regulation play. 
After trailing the entire game, the Oilers had taken a :~-2 lead on goals by Alex Selivanov at 13:47 and Todd Marchant at 14:32. 
Ilowever, the Sharks rallied. First. Victor Korolyuk scored his second goal of the game at 17:02 to tie the score. Oilers goaltender Tommy Salo stopped a shot by Tony Granato, but left the puck at his feet and Korolyuk tapped it in. Then Mike Ricci scored from 10 feet out with one minute left in regulation play to give the Sharks a 4-3 advantage. 
But Marchant scored from 10 feet out to send the game into overtime. 
The Sharks got early first-period goals from Korolyuk and Pat.rick Marleau to take a 2-0 lead before a goal by Alex Selivanov. 
San Jose held that 2-1 lead before the Oilers tied the game on a goal by Rob Murray in the third peri­od. 
Just 45 seconds later, Marchant took a pass behind the San Jose net, curled around and scored from 12 feet out to give Edmonton its first lead. 
The loss was the first in 12 games for San Jose goaltender Steve Shields. He is 9-1-2 in his last 12 starts. Edmonton took 34 shots to 20 for the Sharks. 
Vancouver 2, Calgary 0 

Garth Snow made 41 saves and Dave Gagner scored late in the third period as the Vancouver Canucks beat the playoff-hopeful Calgary Flames 2-0 Monday night. 
The Flames started the night four points behind Edmonton for the eighth and final playoff spot in the Western Confernnce. 
Gagner's goal at 13:43 of the third period, his first goal in 23 games, broke a scoreless tie. The former Flame won a faceoff from Jeff Shantz and broke to the net taking a pass from Alexander Mogilny and [lipping a shot past goaltender Fred Brathwaite. 
:vtogilny added an empty-net goal for the Canucks, who ended a six-game winless streak (0-5-1). The loss left the Flames winless in their last eight (0-7-1). 
Vancouver nearly opened the scoring in the third 

minute while short-handed. Mogilny stripped 
Flames defcnscman Phil Housley of the puck and 
broke in alone on Brathwaite. but was stopped on his 
hard slap shot from 30 feet out. 
The Flames then appeared to tie it at 5:13 when 

Rene Corbet chipped the puck over Snow. The goal, 
however. was disallowed by the video goal judge 
after ruling that the skates of Jeff Shantz were in the 
goal crease. 
Brathwaite, in just his second start in 11 games, 

was sharp for the Flames. He made an especially 
acrobatic save in the waning moments as the 
Canucks moved in on a two-man breakaway. 
Florida 2, Ottawa 0 

Mark Parrish and Scott Mellanby scored 33 sec­onds apart and Kirk McLean made 37 saves as the Florida Panthers ended an eight-game winless streak with a 2-0 win over the Ottawa Senators on Monday 
night. 
The loss was just the second for Ottawa in its last 

13 home games as Florida won the season series 
against the Senators, 3-1. 
Ottawa had a chance to break the shutout when 

Ted Donato was awarded a· penalty shot late in the 
first period after Panthers defenseman John Jakopin 
smothered the puck in his own crease. But Donato 
couldn't beat McLean with a wrist shot. 
Florida was outshot 19-4 in the first period and 39­

11 overall. 
It was McLean's 22nd career shutout as he extend­

ed his career record against the Senators to 6-0-1. 
The Eastern Conference-leading Senators failed to 

increase their two-point lead over the New Jersey 
Devils, who lost 4-2 to the New York Islanders. 
Florida was missing 10 regulars from its lineup 

due to injuries, but managed to win for the first time 
this month. 
Lax 

continued from page 28 
On Sunday, the Pioneers came out ready to play. 
Denver built an l;arlv· 3-1 win on the play of' Nicole Wittelsberger. The Irish regrouped and went on to score 12 goals over the next 23:10 of the first half. They went into halftime leading 13-4. 
Courtney Calabrese led the Irish, scor­ing four goals and adding three assists. In the second half, six different players scored at least one of the eight goals as the Irish increased their goal total to 21. 
The 21 goals are the most the tram has scored in its 32-game history. 
Callahan stepped up with 16 points (eight goals and eight assists) this week­end. 
She also increased her consecutive-goal scoring streak to 24 games. 
The offensive outburst was a good tune up for this week's contests against three top-ranked teams. 
Today the Irish travel to Nashville to take on the 16th-ranked Vanderbilt Commodores. who the Irish have defeated in their two previous meet­

The Observer/Liz Lang 
ings. 

The Notre Dame women's lacrosse team posted two impressive victories over the week,end, defeating Denver and Davidson. 

THE PERFECT COUPLE. NOW JUST $1.99. 
Right now,America's Favorite Burger, theWHOPPER,°and ametlium order ofthe KING OF FRIES'" are only $1.99. Hurry in, because although they're perfect together, this deal won't last a lifetime. 
The Huddle • LaFortune Student Center 
BURGER 
KING 
® 

It just tastes better.·· 
FOR A LIMITED TIME ONLY. PRICE AND PAP'ITICIPATION MAY VARY. 
C1999 BURGER KING CORPORATION. THE SUAGEA KING CORPORATION JS THE EXCLUSIVE LICENSEE OF THE KING OF FfllES AND •1r JUST TASTES BETTER" TRADEMARKS AND THE REGISTERED WHOPPER AND BUN HALVES LOGO TAAOEMAAKS. 
www.burgerklng.com 
Tuesday, April 13, 1999 
The Observer• SPORTS 
¦ MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Mets win home opener, 8-1 

Jones hits 
first career home run 
AMociatcd Press 
NFW YOHK 

Bohhy .lonns mudn Nnw 
York Mets l'ans forgot all 
tllosP injurins. 
.lo1ws hit his first carnnr 
homn run and !mat 
l·lorida for the fourth 
straight. tinw, pitdiing tlw 
strnaking MPts ovnr t.hn 
Marlins 8-1 Monday in 
tlwir honw op1•1wr. 
.Jo1ws con1wctnd in tho 
l'il'lh inning off l.ivan 
ll1•rnand1~z W-21 f'or his 
lirst honrnr in 297 earner 
at-hats, a drivo to lnf't 
l'iP!d tlrnl brokl' a I-all 
tif'. 
.Jonns (2-0 I. who lwat Florida las\ wn11k in l\liami. iillowPd Olli' run and l'our hits in snvPn i1111i11gs. Turk \•V"nd1dl n11d Higo BPll.ran linislind with comhinPd 0111•-hit rtdit>l', with B1dtra11 strik­in g o u t tlw s icl (\ in tIt e ninth. 
Nl'w York, which put catcher \1ikc Piazza and pitclwr Bick Hnnd 011 tlw disahl1!d list hnforn the. ganll', has won four strnight and six ol' s1won sincP an opnning-day loss to the Marlins in Miami. 
IIPrnanclcz had a spe­cial gunst watching in the stands, his half-brother, New York Yankm1s pitch­nr Orl.indo llcrnandcz. On Sunday. "El Duque" took a perf'nct ganrn into tho seventh inning as the Yankees beat Detroit. 
I.ivan didn't farn as well and lost io the Mets for tho sm:ond timo this sea­son. Struggling with his control. he gave up l'ivc runs -four eariwd ­and six hits in 4 2-3 innings and walked live. 
With a sellout crowd or 
52,052 watching on a 
cool nnd sunny aftnrnoon, 
Bobby Bonilla went :{-for­
3 in his rnturn to Sirna 
Stadium in a Mets uni­
form. Bonilla. who 
opcnnd tlrn season l-l'or­
17, lifted his average 
l'rom .059 to .200. 
New York wnnt ahead 
in the s1icoml when rook­
ie shortstop Alex 
c;onzalcz throw away the 
rnlay on a pot!mlial dou­
ble-play grounder. allow­
ing Bonilla lo scorn on the 
error. 
l.uis Castillo hiL a ganrn­tying triple over left l'ield­e r Birkey llnndcrson in thn third. But Jones' homer startnd n l'ou1·-run l'if'th that broke open the game. 
Bonilla singled home a run following walks to llln1derson and John Olerud, and Hobin Ventura hit a two-run double in his Shea Stadium debut. Todd Pratt, lilling in l'or Piazza, added an HBI single in tho eighth off Kirt Ojala and pinch-hitter Mike Kinkade followod with two-run double for his first major leagup hit and 
HBls. 

I See tomorrow's Observer for football coverage I • ¦ 
8tude~t6 A~a-i~6t Q)e6t~uc-tive q,ec-ijio-~ m~tti~?' 17\eeti~?' 
¦ 
Mets place Reed, Piazza on 15-day disabled list 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK 
While Hick Recd didn · t injure his 
Achilles' tendon, the New York Mets 
pitcher did tear a muscle in his left 
calf and will spend the next two weeks 
on tlrn disabled list. 

"I guess you could say it's gpod 
news," Heed said aft.er an MIU diag­
nosed the injury Monday. 
Bend, 16-11 with a 3.48 ERA last season, hurt his left leg trying to stretch his game-tying HBI single into a double during Sunday's 6-3 win at Montreal. 
The Mets placed Heed and catcher Miko Piazza on tho 15-dav disabled list before beating Flurida 8·-1 Monday in their home opener. New York filled the roster spots by recalling left-han­d rn Higo Beltran and outfielder Terrence Long from Norfolk ol' the International League. 
Piazza sprained his knee during a 
rundown Friday at Montreal. 
"When Mike got,hurt, there was~ lot of talk in the clubhouse," manager Bobby Valentine said. "A lot of it start­ed with Bobby Bonilla. He said, 'This isn't a one-man show. We've got a lot of' good players."' 
Valentine said Allen Watson would take Hood's turn in the rotation against Philadolphia this weekend and that Todd Pratt would be the everyday catcher until Piazza returns. 
Pratt was 1-for-4 with an RBI Monday and has two HBls in 16 at­bats this season. Piazza has eight HBis, one behind team-leader Hobin Ventura. 
"We're going to miss a big cog, but we're going to be able to play," Valentino said. 
-
i 
.. I I 
l 


.... • l 
·1 
i 

Hoops 
continued from page 28 
Croatia, and has been playing in the U.S. for only one year. He is expected to offically visit the campus this week­end. 
His high school coach, Michael Byrnes. has nothing but praise for Katelo. 
"He had a great year for us," he said. "Ivan is very tal­ented, I would compare him to [former NBA star] Tom Chambers. Wherever he goes, he's going to help some pro­gram out very. very much. 
"He shoots the ball well. is very athletic, has a huge body 
1998-99 Season 
and runs well," Byrnes said. "You don't see many kids as big as he is that are that ath­letic and that talented." 
However, Sullivan disagrees with Byrnes assessment of Kartelo. 
"Ile is not that good," he said. "He has a big body, but he lumbers along. Ile is not very skilled." 
Next year's Irish squad will face stiff competition early in the 1999 Preseason National Invitational Tournament. The Preseason NIT will also fern­lure college basketball pow­erhouses Maryland, Utah, Kentucky Arizona and 1999 Final Four participant Ohio State. 
Tim Casey contrilwred to this report. 


Notre Dame Film, Television, and Theatre presents 


pagr 24 The Observer• SPORTS Tuesday, April 13, 1999 
BBall 
continued from page 28 
mancc on llrn court but 
credited his shoes f"or his 
offensive success. 
"I just flew in from L.A., so the jet lag made it a littln difficult to get things going," Barrnt explained. "But thankfully I was able to throw down a dunk with my super '80s-style Converse." 
Des-pile its amusing antics, Minor's Magnums plans to make a serious run for the · championship. 
··we don't always play like this," Pitino said. 

-
In a morn surious match­up, Hun & Shoot squared olT against Dey Balla's in an intense up-and-down-the­court cont.nst. Hun & Shoot team members Chuck Alvcrton, John Freeman. Jeff MaxwP.11, Tim Callaglwr and Claude Gaobt!ln relied 
on quick transitions and 
strong outside shooting to 
put tlw gamn away 21-11. 
"Our outside shooting was really working best for us," said Gaebele. "Tim Ga llaglrnr came down with .a vicious slam dunk at the beginning and that pretty much set tho pace for tlw game." 
Alverton led Hun & Shoot's offnnsive game, tallying eight points. 
Even though they played a man down tlrn entire game, Dey Balla's made Hun & Shoot work hard for the win. 
"They played really well for being down a man," said Gaebele. "It was pretty intense out there." 
In other tournament action, the Backstreet Girls 


were forced to take a back snat to Tnam 457 -Too Perverted to Print in one of the last games of tlw day. Team 457, with tnam mnm­bPrs Nicoln Lynch . .fill Clifford, Kristnn Gernty, Ali Esposto, l\rin l'la1:o and Nicole Loprnsto, combined solid offense and defcns1) to come away with the win. 
"It was a pretty intnns1i game," said Lynch. "It took us a little while to gnt tlw rust out, but we pulled it together in tho nnd." 
Place lead the scoring with six baskets, while Gor.:1ty pulled down an impressivn 1(> rnbounds. 
The tl'am got tlrn job dorw c!Pfonsiv11ly as well, combin­ing f"or 12 steals. . 
Tho BackstrPet c;irls, sporting uniforms complPtP with Backstr1:1it Boys song lyrics, werP unablP to answer Team 457's solid court action, losing 21-5. 
1 Ain't Bntt1·r Than ~0111• of ThoS<! Girls l'acPd of'I' against Tll(• (;oats in a make-up ganw undr•r lights at Stnpan Monday night. 
With play1•rs St:an Smith, Gen<' Brtalik, BrPndan Fern,11, Hit-hard BiPn and .Josh Appezzato, I J\in't Bettl'r Than No1w ol' ThosP Girls was too tough team l'or t.lrn l'ive Saint Mary's varsity baskPtball playPrs to han­dle. 
"It was a physical ganrn," said Smith. 
Mixing up tlrnir plays with inside and outsidt\ shooting, the five Stanford llall juniors pulled off' a 21-13 win to advancP to tlw next round later this week. 
The Round of 512 contin­ues today on Stepan, Lyons and McGlinn basketball c;ourts. 


Lou Holtz wlllbe visiting the College of Business Administration Building on April 20, 1999 to lecture on: 
"WhatI wishI knew about Leadership twenty-five years ago" 
Tbis Lecture series will start at 12:30 p.m. and is being held in theJordan Auditorium. 
Lou Roltzwill ofl'er _a perspective useful to 9!l'!~t!!•s.~(Je1,1,~.lopldnJ;.t-ahe~d to careers who ate wpndering what characteristics 8:(1.... s~JJ~ .~a.ke a. great •~~der..In refl~cting onfils'experience, Lou Holtz will share what h~ ha.s.fol.JQ.d tq.be htdispensable leadership 
sktlls.t 
Tills ls the seeon.<llecture oCtb.e ·"Leadership for Comp¢tltlve Advantage and Personal Stte;<;e,f' S~~e, ~.stal)lished tfn'.ough. the Ron and Sblrley Burns Family Endowment for Excell.~nf~ In L~adershlp.
;,:~• ' ::>--:"" ' ' ' ; •·• ,•,•• "'c' " • 
Tuesday, April 13, 1999 
The Observer• SPORTS 
Bookstore 
Basketball 
Round of512 

The spirit and tradition of Bookstore Basketball has been present once again this year. Teams are play­ing hard, looking to earn a spot in the Round of 256. 
Photos by Job Turner 
-


The Notre Dame Law School Natural Law Institute presents 
The Olin Distinguished· Lecture Series 

''Abortion Law: A Brief History; The 
Historians' Brief, and Advocacy Scholarshjp" 
John Keown 

University Lecturer in the Law and Ethics ofMedicine, Faculty ofLaw. University of Cambridge; Fellow and Tutor, Queens' College, Cambridge 
Tuesday, April 13 1999 4 p.m. Notre Dame Law School Courtroom 


ATTENTION 
CLASS Of 99 
YOUR NEW YORK APARTMtNT IS AT 
.,__________ LIVE RIGHT DOWNTOWN 
;1 ;·: J  Manhattan's Most Stylish Art Deco Building Is Now Downtown's Beautiful New Rental  
Studios, 1, 2, 3 & 4 Bedrooms Starting from $1A50  
Special apartments with home offices, several with terraces MANY IDEAL FOR SHARING  
• Coirplimenlary Fitness Center • 0,-Site Business Center (conference room, computers, fax and copied • 24 Hour Attended Lobby • Oversized Windows  
• To1olly wired for lhe New Mllenium • Steps to Wall Street, Tlle Financial District and South Street Seaport  
VISIT OUR WEBSITE TODAY AND RESERVE YOUR NEW NEW YORK HOME www.99john.com  NO FEE  

MAY OCCUPANCY 212-217-9999 
99 John Street ~-~ tt ROCKROSE New York, New York
rs) 

The Observer• SPORTS Tuesday, April 13, 1999 
¦ GotF 

Irish place fourth at Marshall 
By GENE BRTALIK 
Sports Writer 

A week after teammate Jeff Connell captured a second place finish. senior ro-captai n Brad Hardin matched h!s per­
formance by finishing sec­ond in the 100-person field at the Marshall Invitational. 
Hardin 
entered tlrn 

final dav in Hardin second piacc. ono stroke ahoad ol' Michigan's Michael Harris. Hardin went on 
to match him stroke for stroke in carding a final round 72. 
His 54-hole total of 216 (+:~) was a career best, as well as ilrn third-best in Irish history. 
While Hardin securnd his sec­ond place finish on tho l'inal day, the team as a whole fell from third to fourth when the team recorded a final round score of 301. 
Kent University came into tlrn l'inal day in 12th place, but its team shot a blistering two over par 286 to jump all tho way up to third place after recording the lowest round of the tourna­ment. 
Notre Dame had stood in third with rounds of' 304 and 
30 I and wore three strokns behind evnntual champion 
Northwestern. The Irish led tlw Invitational with :10 birdies. . J\lso contributing to the fourth place finish was Connell. who finished tied for 24th with 
teammate Todd Vernon with a 225, and WilliP Kirnt, who recorded nine birdies during 
tho tournament and finished with a 2:rn. 
llardin and Kent load the team in sAason strok,~ average with a 74.58, which is the sec­ond best averagn of the 90s. 
Hardin has droppPd his career average l'rom 78.00 to 
76. 6 7 over the co u rs(' of' th n season. 

-
..... 
Photo courtesy of Sports Information 

Jeff Connell finished in a tie for 24th with a three-day total of 225. 
,.,•d to study 0~.,..
•' .

C, U.S. Fulbright Grant Workshop\ 
April 13, 4 P.M. 

Dear Notre Dame graduate student, 
If you are a U.S. citizen who needs to do about 9 months of field research in a foreign country next academic year, you should apply for a Fulbright grant. Peter Diffley, the Fulbright advisor for graduate students at Notre Dame, will present a workshop at 4pm on 13 April in the Notre Dame Room (LaFortune Center) that will describe the program. He will also outline the steps that you will need to take this summer in order to submit a competitive application. 
If you are unable to attend the workshop but want to get information on Fulbright grants, contact Dean Diffley for an appointment at ( 1-8634) 
someone once said, 
Froo Food
"There is no such thing 
Froo t'O's 
I
. 
free Books
./as afree lunch."
-· --;;::-~,.;:;:~ , fftltl Electroulcs
·,Vf:·,..
_:,,.-. ._.: :.:&4 
'_.;-:;1;'·;i.'f/:: 
Froo Videos 
~:~~ ,:~l~\\j~F 
froo Alrlhte Tickets 
, ,. we disagree. · 
If you can answer some questions and surf the vveb, it's just a click away 

www.memolink.com GET FREE STIJFF. NOW. 
Thank you for reading The Observer 

Become an On-Campus Paid Student Representative 
@varsitybooks.com 
We are hiring students to represent VarsityBooks.com at your campus. VarsityBooks.com is the number one seller oftextbooks on the Internet. 
We offer: 
• 
$7/hour paid internship. 

• 
Opportunity for generous bonuses. 

• 
All the training you need. 


•..And positions are available now. 
We want you to••• 
• 
Work 10 to 20 hours for the last three weeks of this semester (finals weeks excluded). 

• 
\Vork 20 to 30 hours for the first two weeks offall semester. 

• 
Help tailor our marketing plan to your campus. 

• 
Build a team of assistant reps (other students) to help implement the marketing plan. 


Here's your chance to work in marketing with a dynamic Internet company, build your resume, have some fun-and get paid for it! 
For more information call (888) 413-2900 or register on our web site at www.VarsityBooks.com. 
{yvarsitybooks.com 



Tuesday, April 13, 1999 SLURRED SPEECH 
FOXTROT 
The Observer• TODAY 
0 Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
0 Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name _______________________ Address ___________________ City _______State ____ Zip______ 
DAN SULLIVAN 
BILL AMEND 

DILBERT 
OUR ANNUI\L 150 9000 AUDIT rs 
"JEXT WEEK. 

..t-:-1"-:--t:=-t::::-t:::-t 13 "--, Brute?" 


25 Kl'nd of cord 
i-:--tl-"'+~=-•--+'-+-+---.~..:+c.:+:=+"~ 21 Seems -=-+-:+=+::::-1 22 Nouveau -­23 Ray-Bans, e.g. 24 The dawn 
29 Behold, in old AR A AC Rome
-,..+--+--+-+--i 

A D A M E D I T R H O N E 31 ---European 
'-;::D=O=N=E~~R=E=A==L~=D=E::::::=G::=:A:=::::S:!..:3::.2_"T.'..:s::::k~,t~s.:.:.k'_'___....:::e.:.:.m:!:'.p~e~ro'..'..r____:5::.-0 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
The Observer 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
E r----_ -_ -_-_-_ -_ -_ -_ -_ -_-_ -_ -_-_ -_ -_ -_ -_ -_-_-_-_--, ~ WE CAN PA55 THE ~ 
2 e 
@ AUDIT IF WE. PUT ~ 
~ :;;
• ,._LL Of OUR NON-:.
I 
CONFORMING DOCUt-\E.NT5 IN THE g TRUNKS OF OUR 
u
i 
C~RS. 
57 Sage advice, part 3 
62 Lasso 
63 Thrilled 
84 Jodie Foster's alma mater 
&a Inquired 
69 Author Wiesel 
10Saythe paternoster 71 Pasta sauce with 
basil 
72 Lairs 
73 Test proctor's declaration 
DOWN 
1 Leno's got a big one 2 Exploit 3-culpa 4 It was liberated in August 1944 sRant 6 Skip over 
7 Faux pas a Moving 9 Pencil topper 
10 Soda fountain choice 11 Follow the rules 12 Starch source 

SCOTT ADAMS 
DOESN'T Tl-tAl" DHE~T 
THE PU~P05E OF A 
VOLUNTAR.'( AUDIT'? 


Puzzle by Stephanie Spadaccini 

33 Tune out so Digressions 59 Beasts of burden
34 Actor Joseph of 53 Bordered "Citizen Kane" 60 Editor's 

54 A thousand, in 
direction
36 Songstress France 61 Stuck on oneself
James 

56 Pharaoh's land 
65 Mr. Onassis 38 Prefix with 57 Police sting 66 Leave in a hurry
pressure 58 Getup 67 CBS symbol
39 Where movies are made 42 Togetherness 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 43 Go under for the are available by touch-tone phone: third time 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
48 Gilbert and Annual subscriptions are available for the Sullivan best of Sunday crosswords from the last 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
page 27  
HOROSCOPE  EUGENIA LAST  
CELEBRITIES BORN ON Tl!IS  sider taking an exotic trip for two.  
DAY: Thomas Jefferson, Garry Kas­ 000  
parov, Jack Casady, Dan Gurney, Ron  VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You  
Perlman  may have an abundance of good  
Happy Birthday: You're well-pre­ id<.'as, but bdorc you decide to put  
pared to set your plans into motion.  any of them in motion, make sure ynu  
Your determined nature to succe<.'d al  look at the cost factor involved. Some•  
whatever it is you pursue will result  one will oppose you adamantly. 000  
in some extraordinary experiences  LIBRA (Sepl. 23-Oct. 22): Your  
this year. You will not relinquish your  ability to see both sides of an issue  
position to others regardless o/ the  will enable you to keep things ham,o­ 
efforts they make. You will find your  nious in group encounters Changes  
true talents will surface when needed,  and busy activities in your home will  
enabling you to reach the go,1ls you  cause fatigue and some discord. 000  
set. Your numbers: 5, 12, 17, 28, 34, 47  SCORPIO (Ocl. 23-Nov. 21):  
ARIES (March 21-April 19):  Money-making projects will develop.  
Spend time with friends and family.  You will have to be ready to Jump on  
You don't have to be extravagant to  the band wagon and take advantage  
have a good time. Be innovative and  of the opportunities as they arise.  
come up with ideas that the whole  Your mate may not like you taking a  
fantily can enjoy. 000  risk. 00000  
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You  SAGTTTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21):  
will be in a position to help others.  Past partners may try to come back  
Give advice, but hold back ,f they  into your life. Be sure that you lay  
want to borrow cash. You should do  your cards on the table. Chances are  
things that involve family. Don't take  you split up the last time because you  
risks when it comes to dealing with  didn't really want to make ,1 commit­ 
your mate. 0000  ment. 00  
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Emo­ CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19):  
tional turmoil will result if you  Make those long-overdue changPS to  
haven't been completely honest with  your home. You can please everyone  
your mate. Your nighly active nature  in the household if you include them  
will attract plenty of romantic oppor­ in your plans. Jf/ou all pitch in,  
tunities. Don't make hasty ded!;ions.  you'll save time an money. 0000  
00  AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18):  
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You'll  Your contributions to worthwhile  
get ahead if you share your ideas  causes will enhance your reputation  
with your boss. Your estimated view  and introduce you lo prominent indi­ 
of the situation at work will be amaz­ viduals. Problems surrounding inher•  
ingly accurate. You can impress oth­ 1tance taxes should be looked at care­ 
ers with your keen memory and  fully. 000  
awareness. 00000  PISCES {Feb. 19-March 20): You'll  
LEO {July 23-Aug. 22): Do some­ find it difficult to relate to your part­ 
thing special for your mate This  ner. Listen to his or her concerns but  
would be a good day to make a com­ don't voice your thoughts. You can't  
mitment. Get invol\'ed in activities  win regardless of what you say or do.  
that involve children. You should con­ 000  

Wanted: Reporters and photographers. Join The Observer 
Staff. 
The Observer 
P.O. BoxQ Notre Dame, IN 46556 
-
-

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Parachute -­5 "Animal House" party wear 9 Ham it up 14 In midvoyage, maybe 15 "--restless as a willow ..." ( 1945 movie lyric) 16 Morocco's capital 17 Have on 
18 Fissure 19 Ready for anything 
20 Sage advice, part 1 
23 Got fresh with 
28Wideshoe specification 30 One making picks and pans 35 The Little 
Mermaid 37 Bills and coins 40 Aborted mission 
words 41 Sage advice, 
part 2 44 Part of Q.E.D. 45 Not masc. or 
fem. 46 Uncomplaining 
servant 47 Sandwich meat 49--Tomt!! 
(island on the Equator) 5,1 Exist 

26 Pennsylvania city 52 Thingy 
21 "--, two, 55 Abba's home three, four ..." country 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 




1111-11 CIIIIIIII 
¦ Run & Shoot·and I Ain't Better than None of Those Girls advanced to the next round of Bookstore Basketball. 
p.24,25
PORTS 

THF 
page 28 0 BSERVER Tuesday, April 13, 1999 

Williamson considers leaving Notre Dame 
By MIKE CONNOLLY sible schools. but I am not and try to excel there. The semester. pursuPd by the Irish to Associ.ire Spom Editor aware of any decision which Notre b>amo experience just With VVilliamso11's impend­rnplace graduating snn[or l'hil he has rearhed." isn't for nm." ing transfer, the sophomorn llick1iy. Slocum will announcP 
Sopho111orP forward Williamson was not avail­Williamson, who a:; a high c.lass has only one scholarship today at a :-3 p.m. news confor­Leviticus Williamson has been able for immediate comment. school senior finished as the playnr rnmaining -point encP wlrnrn Im will sign. rdeasncl from his basketball but hn has noted th<' diffor­scr.ond-lc>ading scorer in guard Martin Ingr•lsby. llans Mike Sullivan of' sclwlarship by lhe University Hnces ol' opinion liHtwcen him­Houston with 23.7 points per llamusscn transferred cu.r!ier lnsidereporl.com, a basketbalt 
-
· and may not 
self and Macleod. game, ha:; struggfod since his this season for pnrsonal rea­rncruiting journal, reports return to "Sometimes, things just did arrival at Notre Dame. sons whilo ct'nter Peter that Notre Dami• trails Texas school next· not work between coach and As a freshman, he appeared 0kwalinga was dismissed A&M and Tulane in the quest y e a r . me.'' Williamson told the in 24 games. averaging two from lhe team in January l'or for Slocum. according Lo· South Bend Tribune. "Mc and points per game and showing academic problems. The Irish have also looked Observer coach, we didn't see eye to flashes of talent throughout The Irish will return only six at 6-11 Ivan Kartelo of The 
sources. eye." the se1tson. scholarship players for the \Vinchendon School in 
M i k e Williamson's reasons for lie entered his sophomore 1999-2000 team, but Lhe Massachusetts, an institution Enright. departure seem to stem from season as the heir apparent t.o recruiting trail promises sev­,with a history of producing a s s i s t a n t Williamson a disillusion with the the starting small forward eral talented additions to the top talont. Two otlrnr players diroctor of Sports Cniversity and not a personal spot. Freshman David Graves. squad. The Irish have from the class of' '99 hav1! Information. confirmed that problem with new head coach howcvM, replaced him as a received commitmfrnts from rccp,ived scholarships to major Williamson requested to be Matt Doherty. starter just one week into Ohio point guard Michael Division 1 programs whiln reltiased from his athletic "He seems like a great October practices. Monserez and Pennsvlvania teammali~ Bruno Su11dov was scholarship. guy." Wi.lliamson told the Further set-hacks came in shooting guard Matt Carroll. rlraftNI by tlrn Dallas Mavnrics 
"We released him from his Tribune. "I don't have any February when Williamson Andy Slocum, a 6-11 center in 1998. scholarship," he said. "Be problems with him. I want to was declared academically. from West Monroe lligh Karttdo hails from Spilt. has permission to look at pos-try to go to a different place ineligible for the second School in Louisiana has been 
see HOOPS/ page 23 

-
¦ BOOKSTORE BASKETBAH 
Action picks up in Round of 512 
By KERRY SMITH 
Srorrs Wrircr  
Minor's Magnums put on a  
show Monday as i.t took on  
Honkv Town in thi• third day  
of a·ction in Bookstore  
Baskritball's Round of 512.  
Combining super heroes  
and f'ormer NBA coaches  
with wrestling and football  
tac: tics. llw 23rd -ranked  
team played to ser.ure a  
place in the next round and  
have some fun.  
Team captain Mike Pitino  
made an appearance as  
Superman. In an attempt to  
put his powers to use, he  
launched snveral shots from  
bnyond half' court, but at  
half timn. be was forced to  
take off th!' SupPrman outfit  
h(1caus(i of its inhibiting  
natun1.  
·· It was a little constri1·ling  
-I <' o u I d n · t ge t m y s h ii t  
off," said Pitino. "Plus it was  
affecting my blocking abili­ 
ty."  
Along with Pitino, team  
m1)mbers Scan Murtha.  
.Jimmy Barrnt, Kip Moen and  
Al Vitter combined fast  
brnaks and slam dunks for  
an easy victory and a bnth  
in tlrn next round.  
Early in the game after  
llonky Town camP up with a  
st1\al. Pitino retaliated, using  
mock wrestling moves to  
slow down the opposition,  
Later, the team showcased  
its f'ootball abilities by  
attempting a liPld goal with  
the basketball that sailed far  
b1wond the backboard.  
Barret, playing the part of  
Los Angel1\s Lakcrs coach  
Kurt Hambis, showed up to  
thP game in a curly blonde  
wig. He said he was disap­ 
poi n terl with his perfor- The Observer/Mrchelle Keefe  
This year's Bookstore Basketball tournament has yet to see its share of major upsets. Seeded teams have  
see BBALL/ page 24  cruised to victory in the first two rounds, but competition will begin to pick up as the tournament rolls on.  

¦ WOMH.f S LACROSSE 
Irish offense keys two week­end victories 
By GENE BRTALIK Spom-Wricer 
Last weekend. the Notr1• Dame women's lacrosse Warn proved that its high-scoring offens,, can light up opposing dcfens11s with goal after goal. 
Going into tlrn weekend as the na t_ion' s highest srori ng offensP, tlw Irish averaged l 'J goals p,ir game thnir 18-2 and 21-6 honw wins against Davidson and Dnnvcr, rPspec­tively. 
The two wins improved Nntre 0ame's rPcord to 8-2 on the season. 
On Friday. the Davidson Wildcats ho1wd to avPngc last year's dnfeat but t\11' Irish jump1•d out to an early :1-0 lead. 
Davidson's Rachel Bowen struck back with a goal at l5:3(i, but tlw Irish retaliated with Pight straight goals and jumped out to an 11-1 !Pad with 4:3(i remaining in Urn half. 
Davidson scored only Oil(! morn goal for the game at th(\ end of' the first half. 
Notre Damp had eight dif­ferent players score in the hair with Kerry Callahan and Laci 0'Shaughnnssy account­ing ror f'iVI' or tlrn eight Irish goals. 
The second hair was all Irish, as tlrny add(!d SPVen morn goals including one by freshman dHfcnder Kathryn Lam. 
Davidson had its scoring r ha11 c tis Ii mi tti d, 1m a Li Ii n g Notrn Damn shut them out for an 1n1tire half -a nrst in Notrn Dame womnn's lacrossn history. 
see LAX I page 22 

at Ohio State Baseball
vs. Michigan

rfj' ~
,__ \.._ J ...~ Wednesday, 3 p.m. Wednesday, 3:30 p.rn. ~ vs. Cleveland State 
~,;.. ,,. •"1
SPORTS 
Wednesday, 5 p.m. 
ATA 
Softball

at Vanderbilt 
at Indiana 
vs. Calvin College
~ft, 

Today, 3 p.m.
Thursday, 3 p.m. 
c::-:.-' 

~ e 
Thursday, 3:30 p.m. 
GLANCE 





