
BlacL: Historv Month 
Thursday

Looking forward to JPW? 
¦ Observer columnists air their sentiments on Black
¦ The Observer previews this weekend's 
History Month. 
FEBRUARY 18, 
JPW events. 

Scene• 14-15 

Viewpoint• 12-13 
1999 
THE 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. ql WWW. ND.EDU/~OBSERVER 

Nike sweatshops fill COBA panelists' musings 
ND peers 

questioning licensees 
Hy BRAD UNTIEDT 
New, Writer 

Thll rncent sprnn o[' campus, anti­swcntshop protHsls acrnss llw countr~• continund Tuosday, as studonls from Prinrel.on and Ilarvard held df'monstra­iit1ns in .uitidpation of' the rrw,,tings Ivy Loaguo administrators !mid b(lginning W11 rt n nsd a y. 
Su1dents gatht>rn<l lo show their desire for an increas,, in rulc,s thnt form LhA r.odo of conduct for the Collegiato Lict-nsing Company (CLC). The CLC is the licensing romfHtny that reprosents over 170 univcn~iti11s nationwidC'. 
More than 250 Princeton students rul­liNI on Tuesday in hopes that adminis­trators would vote to rc•ovaluate tho currrnt. code of conduct and implement stricter rules. The lldministrators were sch(•duled to bngin mot1iings Wed111isday to discuss the matters. 
The rallies taking pln.co at Princeton 1111d Harvard l11wtt betin u common scentt on collnge campusM, with rorent protests taking pluce at Duke, 
see LICENSEES/ page 4 
¦ STUDENT SENATE 
By ANNE MARIE MATTINGLY 
Assistant Nev.JS E-ditor 

Various faculty l'rom the College of Businnss Administration went head-to­lrnad Tunsday on tlrn subjnct of sweat­shop labor in the Nike corporation. with mmnbers of the management dcpart­m1mt arguing that conditions are inhu­
mane. 

Profnssors of' linancc countered that thn SWC'alshops provide tlrn bnst oppor­tunity for workers in poorer countries. 
Assistant professor of management Matf Bloom opcm~d Orn dobat<' by tack­ling two common argumonts in f'avor or sw!iatshop conditions. Bloom contended that tlw "pro!it dnfnns11," which sl.atns that paying higher wages will drive ,·ompanins out of business, is "11011­sensn." 
Bloom cited statistics claiming that companies who pay thPir workers a liv­ing wage earn an additional $27,000 por cmploynn in salos annually and havP stork values that are $18,000 per employee greater than those Urnt do not. Bused on this data. Bloom contend­ed that paying workers morr. would actually translattl to grnatcr profits. 
l'rofossor of finance Paul Schultz attacked that argument by saying that rnal world managers know more about husitrnss than resnarch ,1conomists. 
"If Nike doesn't think they could do bntter by paying more, they'ro probably right." he said. 

Bloom also addresseu llrn "better-off defonsn." which states that if one com­pany mistreati; its workers loss than all the others, thon that cumpany is acting 

Collaborative study tops wish list 

The Observer/ Job Turner Mark Massoud (right) informed the senate about the student government's Spring report to Notre Dame's Board of Trustees. The report will focus on efforts to 
improve experiential learning on campus. 
By TIM LOGAN 
Associaie N=s Editor 
In Oll!l of several votes taken al Wedncsdav's Student Senate meet­ing, nwml1tffs narrowly approved a lelll'r n•qtwsting further encourage­ment by University deans of collabo­raliv,i learning. 
Tho letl!!f, which will be sent to Urn deans of the Univorsily's four col­legos and Lhn School of Architecture, asks these leaders to encourage pro-Jan. 27. Since that time. the senatn's Academic Affairs committee drafted this lettor, which Cesaro and student body vice prnsidcnt. !\ndrea Selak both spoke in support ofWednr.sday. 
A number of senators opposed the ltittnr. Among thr.ir objoctions wr,rn concerns that not enough student opinion was gathered, that it was not the senate's place to recommond this to the facull.y. and even that more collaborative work is not wanted by tho student body. 
"As an Arts and Letters major, I don't see any requirement for group work," said Dillon senator Jason Linster. "I don't think most people want this, personally." 
A motion to table the bill until next wtrnk's meeting, so that senators could discuss it with their Hall Councils, was rejected on an unusual tie vote. With members deadlocked 12-12, Selak, who as the chair of the senate can break a tie, voted against tabting, thus forcing a decision at this week's meeting. 
In other senate news: 
• Senators approved experiential learning at Notre Dame for the Spring Board of Trustees report topic. The report committee expressed hope that their document would encourage the Trustees to work at expanding and improving 
see DEANS I page 4 

fossors to assign grnup projects and allow group study. It was approved by a vole of 14-12. Proponents say that this collaborative experience will help students in their future employment. 
"In the real world, you work in a group," said Fisher senator Phil DiUmar, who expressed enthusiastic support for the initiative. This letter was initially brought up by student body president Peter Cesaro in his state of the Student Union address 

The Observer/ Michelle Keele Business faculty assembled Tuesday to consider Nike's use of sweatshop labor. One professor compared the situation to that of Notre Dame undergraduates. 
actmirably. 
"If I beat my employees less [than another company], I'm good," he said. "They're [the companies] wrong and we should repudiate them." 
Assistant professor of finance Paula Tkac argued in favor of the sweatshop system on the basis that workers are gaining skills that will enable them to gel better jobs. She compared the facto­ry employees tu students at Notre Oame. 
"[Thoy"rc saying!, 'I'm here as an investment to increase my earning 

potential and standard or living. 1 don"t like tho alternative."' 
Tkac also argwid that though working in the sweatshops might not b11 the ideal scenario, it is the best opportunity the employees have. 
"The m1xt best usn of' their time is not very productive," she said, citing farm­ing and shopkneping as examples. "Nike workers have a stable source of income." 
Professor of Financn Paul Schultz 
see NIKE/ page 4 




WVR delays 
•



reopening until March 
By CHRISTINE KRALY 
Assistant News Editor 
Students awaiting the return of' tlw campus radio station WVFl-(140 AM. will have to wait a little longer. Instead of returning Lo air last week as schedulnd, the station will rnmain off the air until mid-March. 
"[It was al big revamping procnss that nnndml to be taken care of," said Kathlnen Sullivan. tlrn station's program director. 
WVFI has been olT the air since Novembnr. The station will be better than ever when they resume operation in March, Sullivan said. 
"Almost all our equipment is tweaknd or new," explained Sullivan, "land we've! re­alphabetized and relocated our complete music library." 
The student-run station closed for "inside and outside renovation," Sullivan said. 
"[We'ro) finishing work on Urn inside," she added, noting that the station will sm1d out transmitters. allowing the entire Notre Dame campus to have access to programming, instead of just the six dorms it roached before renova­tions. 
Part of the "outside" renovation, according to 
see WVFI / page 4 

r-------------------­
page 2 
¦ INSIDE COLUMN 
Hope Springs Eternal 
It's that time of year again. 
Spring is in the air, love is in bloom and the 
sweet sound of a homenm echoes across the 
land. 
It's baseball season. 
Which means. for me. Lhat this could be The Year. Tho vcar that the Cubs win it all. 
OK, OK. I know. They have't won it all since 1908. The Cubs have been without a World Series win for longer 


than the Russians were  Laura Petelle  
communisL,.  Assistant News Editor  
The last time the  

Cubs won the World Series, Teddy Honsevelt 
was; President. The Model-Twas the most pop­
ular car on tlw road. There had heen no 
Prohibition. no Great Depression, no World 
Wars, no disco. 
Them was no commercial flight-Orville and Wilbur had only just learned to fly live years earlier. Knuto Rockne wasn't in collegr, yet. "lotni Dame had never had an All-American football player. Chicago still had stockyards. 
We came so close in 1989. lfit hadn't br,en for the Giant'i. we could have had it. I would like to point out, however. that if the Cubs HAD beaten the Giants, the World Series wouldn't have had to be postponed for the earthquake ­that game would have been in Chicago (I think we can safely assume from this that even God is a Cubs fan). 
In just two seasons' time, the Cubs winning the World Series will be a twice-in-a-millenium event. But this could be the year. 
Two World Wars, several presidents, one sex­ual revolution later, the Cubs could finally ,vin it all. This time it would be televised. This time it would be in Wrigley Field. 
ln keeping ,vith a Lenten theme, cheering for the Cubs is all about faith and hope that some­how, someday, there will be a resurrection. So maybe we haven't won one in a while. We bear up. We carry on. We keep cheering. 
Hecent statistics show that more than twice as many people attend Cubs games as attend games at an ugly cross-town stadium where another baseball team, this one with a criminal record. plays. For that matter, more people attend the Chicago Art Institute every year than that ugly cross-town stadium, but there's no accounting for tastes ofSouthside rs. . 
The Cubs have more fans because the Cubs have charisma. The Cubs have heart. The Cubs have a loyal fan base. 
Cheering for the Cubs is a tradition in my family. My grandpa cheers for the Cubs. My dad cheers for the Cubs. I went to my first Cubs game when I was too small to see over the seat in front ofme. I've been inside the "friendly confines" more times than l can count. I learned the words to "Take Me out to the Ballgame" as "for it's root-root-root for the Cubbies!" 
True Cubs fans know that hope is what mat­ters. So what if nobody in rriy family was alive the last time the Cubs won? It's not whether you win or lose, it's how you play the game, and the Cubs play it with style. 
Besides, this could be the year. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

¦ TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Scene  
Derek Betcher  Emmett Malloy  
Noreen Gillespie  Graphics  
Matt Smith  Cristin Manary  
Sports  Production  
Bill Han  Kerry Smith  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Eddie Llllll  Peter Richardson  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday cx:cepr during exam and vacation period~. The ObservcT is a member of rhc A\~oci;itcd Prc.n. Al~ rcprodlkrion righn are reserved. 
Thursday, February 18, 1999

The Observer• INSIDE 


utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Rally protests sweatshop labor for college apparel 
PHINCETON, N.J: 
Chanting "lley, hey, ho, ho, sweat• shop labor's got to go." about 250 protesters marched from Firestone Plaza to Nassau Hall yesterday to demand that the University adopt a strong code of conduct for the cloth­ing companies that manufacture its apparel. 
With pressure mounting on colleges to draw up stringent anti-sweatshop codes in the wake of sit-ins at Duke, Georgetown and the University of Wisconsin, students also protested yesterday at Harvard and Yale. Brown's Student Labor Alliance will hold a rally today. 
Princeton's rally, sponsored by Students for Progn,ssive Education and Action, began in Firestone Plaza around noon and moved to the lawn in front of Nassau Ilall about :rn min­utes later. 
The protesters wt=ire met on the 
¦ UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA 
Airline tickets difficult to find 
TUSCALOOSA, A.la. 
As spring break approaches, students who plan to fly could encounter difficulties in getting airline tickets. Even though there is still a month to go before spring break, flights are hard to find. Travel agent Barbara Hollingsworth of World Wide Travel and Tours said stu­dents should have started booking flights for spring break at the beginning of the spring semester. "There's so many people traveling out of Birmingham," Hollingsworth said. "Really and truly, you should have started looking right after Christmas." To illustrate how difficult it is to find tickets, Hollingsworth tried to find tickets from Birmingham to Orlando, a popular vacation spot. After several minutes of searching through data­bases, she found a $626 economy fare. However, All Seasons Travel reports having airfares to Orlando rang­ing from $120 to $672, depending on availability. 
¦ UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA Police arrest animal rights activists 
MINNEAPOLIS, Minn. 
Sparks flew in the sixth-floor hallway of Diehl Hall just 
after noon Tuesday when police cut through the U-locks 
binding six animal rights protesters together by their 
necks. University Police arrested six people -four 
University students and one alumna -on charges of 
trespassing and disorderly conduct after they locked 
themselves together in the entrance of office 625, the 
research study room, for almost two hours. The group, 
which calls itself Direct Action for Animals, lay bound in 
the hallway and on the office floor of University animal 
research scientist Marilyn Carroll, who the group has 
targeted in the past. Spreading fake dollars around 
themselves that the group said represented taxpayer 
supported "blood money," the protesters chanted slo­
gans like, "Stop the torture, stop tile pain, vivisections 
are insane!" 
¦ Sourn BENO WEATHER 
S Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeather® forecast for daytime condilions and hJgh temperatures 
H  L  
Thursday Friday Saturday Sundar  ~34 20 u 27 22 f?J 27 17 cD. 27 23  

Monday . ,,.1¢::1 28 13 
~J-· f'-'", J",,,·' ""' 


4~,~4.QQ ~ ~ 2:) 
Showers T-storms Rain FJLJr;ies s~·; Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Vin Assoc;ated Press Gra()hicsNer 


steps of Nassau Hall by Vice President for Public Affairs Bob Durkee '69, who is convening with other Ivy League administrators today in New York City to discuss methods for monitoring clothing manufacturers. 
SPEAC member Dave Tannen-baum presented Durkee with about 350 let­ters that students had signed and then demanded to know whether Ourkee would promise to push for f'ull disclosure of factory locations and a living wage for workers. Durkee did not give a definite answer, but he did say that he agreed with everything he heard at tho rally and addod ho folt that all of SPEAC's objectives were achievable • if not in the short-term. then at least in the long-term. 
Later yestr,rday afternoon, Dur-kne said he anticipatr,s that the Ivy League rallies will be on the minds of' administrators when they meet today. "I think that the rally did reaffirm th1i interests that students at least at Princeton have in thesr, issues," he said. "It's useful for those who will bP meeting tomorrow to know of that reamrmation." 
At stake in this most recent wavo of nationwide protests is the stringency of lahor codes that universities adopt. While students and administrators at many schools agree on the need for labor codes of conduct, they havn had difficulty compromising on how strict those codes should be. 

¦ DARTMOUTH COLL(Gf 
Administration overhauls Greek life 
IIANOVFB,N.11. 

While Tuesday's announcement of the Trustees' plan to overhaul social and residential life at the College came as a shock to most Dartmouth students, in reality, it was a decision at least two decades in the making. College President James Wright will likely be remembered as the Dartmouth president who presided over the revolution mandated by the Trustees' decision. As the president who will guide the creation of what will be a dramatically dif­ferent Dartmouth, Wright will be the inevitable recipient of whatever praise or anger the changes bring, not only in the coming months, but for generations to come --it will be his place in the history of the Wheelock Succession. But Wright cannot be held solely responsible -for bntter or for worse -for the groundwork which lies beneath the five principles laid out by the Trustees in their vote two weekends ago. 
¦ OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY Student charged with murder, robbery 
COLUMBUS, 011. 

Former Ohio Stale student Carlo Lamarr-Marquis 
Owens appears Wednesday in Franklin County Common 
Pleas Court after the 18-year-old was charged with multi­
ple counts of murder, robbery, burglary and assault in 
connection with a recr,nt university district crimn spree. A 
Grand Jury returned 21 indictments against Owens on 
Feb. 12. The indictments include four counts of aggravat­
ed murder, five counts of aggravatr,d burglary, 10 counts 
of aggravated robbery, one count of felonious assault and 
one count of carrying a concealed weapon. Police arrested 
Owens Feb. 4 following an armed robbery. Police believe 
he is responsible for the Jan. 14 murders of Patrick Pryor 
and Loretta Long and a series of armed robberies in the 
campus area. Although Owens is charged with killing two 
people, he was indicted on four counts of aggravated mur­
der with firearm specifications. 
¦ NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Thursday, Feb. 18. 
Os 
ines se arate hi h tern erature zones for the day. 
A• 
"'¥i.:-: 
-. 7­
0s ' 
FRONTS: 

408 
-.-,,,.­
-----..........

0 1999 AccuWeather, Inc. COl.D WARM STATIONARY 
Prenure: 
® © D . c::J D w till <) ¢~;,; ·~­
High Low Showers Rain T-storms FlurriH Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via A$SOC11Jtttd PrtlSS 
Atlanta  47  61  Cleveland  26  35  Madison  16  33  
Austin  51  72  Dallas  46  67  Miami  66  BO  
Baltimore  40  49  Denver  24  45  Minneapolis 15  28  
Boston  37  43  Hartford  33  43  New York  40  45  
Chicago  25  38  Indianapolis 24  42  Santa Fe  26  56  

Mahoney: Brazil's trouble rooted in deficit spending 
High interest rate, foreign investment doomed the real, expert says 
By Cl IRIS LAWLER 
Nnv.\ \X/riret 
Tl11• l'undarnPntal source of' Brazil's prohl,•ms arn its largn fiscal dnficits, Mirha,•I MalHHH•Y of tlw World Bank said WPdnPsday in his !Pc!urn on thn prohlnn1s of tlw n•;il nconornic systnm. 
"I.as!. ynar. Brazil's government sp1•11L $(,:i billion more than it brought in in r1wn111u•," Mahonny stated. 
Two ways to linancn such a debt, said Mahmwy. an• to borrow monny in tlw form of' govnrnnrnnt bonds or to print mon• currnncy. 111 thn early I<J<JOs. Brazil atlPmptnd to solvP its hudgPl proh!Pm hy printing nr.w llllllll'Y. 
"Wiiat this Ind to was nxtrnmnly rapid inflation," said Mahorwy. With an inllation ratn ol' owr liw thousand pnri:Pnt 1wr ynar, Brazil's monny d1•valtwd rnpidly. 
In an aW•mpl. to rnnwdy this prob­l<•m. tlw Brazilian gov1•rnmn11t intro­d11c1•d thn n•,il l'c11nomi!' plan in 1(J<J4. A ,ww r.u1TC1H'Y was institutnd. tlw rP1il. whid1 was sd to t•qual tlw valur. of' thl' ll.S. dollar. In ord<•r to kotip such a high valun. Brazil had to issun morP bonds and r.all on foreign inVt'slors to linancn most of' its l'iscal dPht.. 
Tlw systl'm soon ran into probl!\ms. 
"Wlwn gowrnnH'nts run largn fiscal d1•1icits. llw rountry as a wholn l<mds lo spend rn11n• than it earns," said 
MahrnH~Y­
lmports irwrnasP, leading l.o a tr-adn dPl'il'it. 11nd th1· country pays of'f its dPliril by sPlling its assPts. In Brazil's ,·as<•. !\lahon<'Y notPd, a high intnrnst rntl' was s,it. ,;n its assnts so that tlwy wore attractivn to f'oreign buynrs. Such a systnm is unstable, becauso high interest ratns only nxacr.rbatc tho ddicit, howevnr. J\dditionally, Brazil has a history of a high deficit, and with no l'orcsooabln decrease in sight, in vPstors brga n tn withdraw lhn ir moncy. 

/\s a rnsult, on .Ian. l:{ of this vear, Brazil ahandonf'd its policy of "prop­ping" tlw value of thn ro,il. Within a wPok. its value was cuL nnarlv in half. trading at a two-for-one ratn•with the 
U.S. dollar. 
Much of Brazil's financial trouhh~ is rnlated to its political and government institution, Mahoney said. For example, politicians oftnn him large numbers of civil servants in ordnr to garner sup­port. which results in massive cxprmdi­tu res on governmcnt employees. Brazil's conslilution spccilically outlaws the removal ol' government nmployees, and it is cliflicult even to reduce their wagns, said Mahoney. There is also a hugn pnnsion program which has much morn nxtravagant benefits than U.S. Social Sncurity and pays out much morn than it takns in. 
Political apathy is a major problnm as wnll, according to Mahoney. Thn capital city ol' Brasilia is so rf'motn from the rest of' thn country that it is ofien hard to gnt a quorum in tho national con­grPss. Whnn tlrn legislators do attend. morn than I(, political parties aro rep­rns1\ 1Hed. making any progress nxtremely dillicult. 
The congress has recently passed financial reforms. said Mahoney, but it dor.s not bode well for Brazil's f'uturn that "tho best way to bring about rol'orm is to push tho economy to thc brink of disastnr." 
Mahonev is a Notre Dame graduate, a f'nrmor Fttlbright Sdrnlar and is cur­rnntly a Ph. D. candidatn at Stanford University. where he is studying tho problems of the rP,il nconomic system in Brazil. 
Tim lncturn was dnlivered at tlrn lltisburgh Centr.r on International Studins. 




Reminder 
Undergraduate students applying for the Kellogg Institute's summer international research grant competition must have their applications in by 
Fridav, Februarv 26. 
~ &. 


If students want to apply, and have not picked up application forms, t~ey can get them at the Kellogg Institute on the second floor of the Hesburgh Center or from Hurley 110. 
For information, contact Michael Francis, Assistant Provost for International Studies 
1-5203 
The death penalty in question 

The Observer/Job Turner 

A panel of professors discussed the justice of capital punishment at a forum h_eld Wednesday in DeBartolo Hall. The event, part of the Black History Month film series, also featured a movie on Mumia Abu-Jamal, a journalist and activist who is on death row in Pennsylvania attempting to gain a new trial. 


Malloy to sign new book 
Special to The Observer 
University president Father Edward \ilalloy will sign copies of a new book. "Colleges and Universities as Citizens," during tho opening ceremonies today and Friday for the new llammes Notre Dame Bookstore in the Eck Centnr. 
Malloy and his two coedi­tors of the book -Robert Bringle, director of the Center for Public Service and Leadership at Indiana University-Purdue Univr.rsity-Indianapolis. and Richard Games, executive director of' Indiana Campus 
Compact, will sign books during a special opening ceremony for Notre Damo faculty tomorrow from 4-6 
p.m. Malloy will also sign books Friday from 3-5 p.m. during the bookstore's grand opening for the entire campus community. 
The bookstore will be open to the general public on Sunday. 
"Colleges and Universities as Citizens" is a collection of 10 articlns by academics and others involved in the effort to prornotc greater communi­ty involvement by American institutions of' higher education, so that the many resources of col­leges and universities may he brought to btrnr more dirnctly on community needs and problems. Thn book not only explorr.s suc­cessful models of institu­tional engagnment, such as servicc lr.arning programs, but also analyzos tho struc­ture, mission and culturn of' highnr education with an eye to changes that must occur in order for collr.iws and universilins lo become morn l'ully engaged in ser­vin' to the community. 
In addition lo editing the book, Bringln. Games and Malloy contributl\d its first and last chapt.crs. 

Got news? Call 1-5323 or stop by our office in SDH. 
re:.~::~-:~%%%%$'%$'$'%~~%~$"~ 
; Hi~" , ~,I The Amencan Cancer Soc1etyl 
; · ,_,. 1 

presents our Annual j ij ,I I-<, . I D ff d·I D I
i:~-~---n~.d a O 1 ays j 
'i I ; ~ ~ m· ~
For only six dollars, you can purchase one bunch of ten daffodils, and for ~. just three dollars more, you can purchase aslender glass vase that is just !Iperfect for your bouquet! ~ 
j The flowers will be delivered to the donns on Thursday, March 25"'. 
I All proceeds from our Daffodil Days goes to the American Cancer SocietyIfor use in cancer research, education, programs, and patient services here inISt. Joseph County. ij Bring the sign of Spring and the flower of hope to your donn room. You ij can use the order fonn below to place an order with Jessica Brookshire in j 204 Rolfs Sports Center or call 1-5829 for more infonnation. 
Ir--------------------~~~,





I .. ·
~... IIwant to order_ bunches of Daffodils with_ vases. a' ... I !:Name:_____ 1 , : iIAddress: _ --Hall, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 ,,,, .. _.. m. I 
~ . . . DAFFODll 
t:~=~~=~a~:•~~~e~ __-[~::~5J 
Thursday, February 18, 1999

page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
"We have power as consumers, and we don't Board of Fellows to keep sexual have to buy products produced in sweatshop con­orientation out of' thP

Nike Deans
ditions. There has to be some consumer power University's legal non-discrimi­
continued from page 1 here, and maybe somA legislative power," he continued from page 1 nation clause. The statement said. "We should not be buying products where would also likely address the expanded on this idea. people aren't making enough to live on and then manner in which the decision
experiential learning offerings,
"The peopl!'l who are working in thfise factories they have to scrounge around for something to was reached.
including Center for Social 
are not crazy and not stupid. If there were better eat after working all day." Last semester. the senate
Concerns seminars, volunteer 
opportunities available to them, they'd take Williams contended that the conditions of passed one resolution support­
and internship programs and 
them." he said. "They're working for I\Jike sweatshop labor -low wages, long hours with­ing the clause change, and
undergraduate research oppor·
because that's Lhe best they can do." out overtime pay, an unsafe working environ· another encouraging open dis­
tunities, among other things.
Bloom countered by saying that if that is the ment, abuse or sexual harassment and the inabil· cussion of the matter.
"I think the experience is 
case, then it is th<' responsibility of others in the ity to organize to negotiate better terms of work • The snnatn unanimously
important because it takes the 
world to see that better opportunities become -violate the dignity that all humans deserve approved a letter encouraging
academic experience to a new 
availahle. ber.ause they were created irl the image and like· rectors to maintain normal
level." said Angela Anderson. a
"It's a df!Spicable, repugnant opportunity," he ness of God. Ho proposed that companies should parietal hours during breaks
member of the committee 
said. "Just because Nike's beating their employ­voluntarily adopt codes of conduct that forbid and Junior Parents Weekend.
which will prepare the report.. 
ees less than evcryont~ else doesn't mean it's OK." sweatshops and agree to outside monitoring to There is no standard University
"It makes ~otrc Dame what it 
But Tkac argued that companies like l\'ike ,vho ensure that the codes are enforced. policy regarding parietals on
is all about: Catholic character 
use sweatshop labor have no ethil:al obligation to But Schultz proposed that closing the sweat· these weekends. and individual
and the Catholic soda! teach­
improve conditions for workers. Instead. she shops would force omployees to work in other dorm practices vary.
ing.

argued that consumer pressure should motivate jobs LhaL were less desiralilc and claimed that the Committee members said "This is intended to make change. problem was bigger than any one employer's pol· rectors aware that them is no
they hope to enr.ourage
"I don't think it's our role to go halfway around icv. standard policy," said
increased dialogue between the 
the world and say, 'This is how you should ·"The problem is not that Nike is paying low Pasquerilla West senator Susan
Trustees and student govern­
behave,"' Tkac said. "The choice is yours. rr you wages. it's that these are poor <"ountries," he said. ment, and long term implemen­Gloss. "It's also a step toward think this is repugnant, don't buy it." Schultz proposed that tho creation of more changing the policy in the
tation of programs like these. 
Associate professor of management Father sweatshops, instead of the elimination of existing future."
"This is just the beginning,"
Oliver Williams agrerd and emphasized con­shops, because the competition for workers • Student body president
said Mark Mas::;oud. coordina­
sumers' moral obligations. would drive wages up. Peter Cesaro announced that a
tor of the Board of Trustees 
series of Academic Pride lun­

report. "We hope with this 
cheons would take place next

report we'll open [many new
All of tlrn schools that have exceed loeal prartices." 
week in the hospitality room ofopportunities) for dialogue." 

held protests are members of On the issue of disclosure of

Licensees 
South Dining llall. A range of'• Gender Helations committee the CLC. Notre Dame, which is factory locations, l\/otrc Uamc departm0nts in tho Colleges ofco-chair Sophie Fortin said that

continued from page l not a member. has its own code uses the same practices that 
Arts a11d Letters and Businessa statement. would likely comeof conduct for licensees, leaving students from other universities Administration will be repre­up for a vote next week criticiz­Georgetown, and the University it independent of thH CLC. are fighting to have changed. 

sented.

ing the recent decision by theof Wisconsin-Madison. The According to the NotrP Dame "The University is not going to protests have all been in sup­Code of Conduct for Licensees. disclose to the public informa­port of a stri.cter code for the "LicensPes must provide wages tion about the locations of Sullivan says the decision willCLC, of which each of those and benefits which comply with apparel manufacturers," said not dcprmd entirely on WVFI,
WVFIschools are members. all applicable laws and regula­Kaesebier. "We are in the which may get involved in a
The protests arc calling for tion(, and match or exceed the process of gathering informa­"time share" with another sta­
continued from page 1 
rules to more carefully monitor prevailing local manufacturing tion about the all of the tion.
working conditions in overseas industry practices." licensees and their manufactur­
Sullivan, deals with waiting "IWc] need all parties
textile shops that make clothing "This would not be considered ers, but this will remain private. 
for the University to finalize involved [to finish their reno­
with schools' logos. The stu­a 'living wage,' because we The University will use this 
funding for the station. The vations!," she said, before any
dents want assurance that the don't know exactly what that information to monitor the 
station is still considering FM decision on expansion to FMclothing is not made in sweat­entails," said Carol Kaesebier, licensees. There is no need to circulation later this year, but broadcasting is made.
shops. vice president and general publicly disclose this informa­
There are two main issues counsel. It is difficult to deter­tion, it is a mater of competi· that protesters have been mine what a living wage is and tiveness for the manufacturers." attacking in the code of conduct. at what level to set it. Kaesehier also said that the The students want full disclo­"There is no real definition of demonstrations and changes sure of factory locations and a a 'living wage,' so the University . that have been taking place at 
6)ftank 1ou for readingliving wage guaranteed to all has chosen to use what we have other universities will not lead workers. Thus far. administra­until something better can be to a change in Notre Dame's tors at Duke, Georgetown and determined. And as of now, the code. 
6)fte Q&server.Wisconsin-Madison have sup• best measure that we have is "This is our code and is what ported student requests. that wages must match or we are using," Kaesebier said. 

Connecting ideas and action 
Get Engaged 
THE CENTURY INSTITUTE 
Summer Program 
June 21 st to July 9th at Williams College in the Berkshires 
This three-week fellowship is intended for under­graduates with an interest in careers in public service or the non-profit sector. Students, schol­ars, and prominent policy practitioners together will explore the challenges America faces in building a just and prosperous society. 
The Institute will cover all expenses including transportation, and students will receive a $1,000 stipend. 
For more information or to apply, vi~it 
www.centuryinstitute.org 
or contact Ann Stinson via e-mail at stinson@lcf.org or by phone at (212) 452-7705 
a proiect of  underwritten by  
The Century Foundation  The Sagner Family  
formerly the Twentieth Century Fund  Foundation  

ARE YOU TIRED OF LIVING LIKE THIS? 

Everything about school doesn't need to remind you of being crammed together like sardines. STRETCH OUT 





Williainsburg 
.'®-"$.?~~,,,~~--~L~~'$~'#.>,.~~ 
,~~~~,~ on,~~i,,e a~e 
Our Floorplans are spacious, with the privacy and solitude that dorm life can't offer. Only minutes from campus, you'll feel light years away when you leave the stress of exams and studying behind. 
Call today about our Priority Waiting List Program to reserve your apartment for fall. Don't wait and be left out in the cold! 


Williamsburg
~"7Jrtlfeiiltir-~· @ 
EOUAL HOUSING

256-0237 OPPORTUNITY 

Thursday, h'.bruary 18, 1999 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
¦ WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Man dies in second-grade classroom crash 
COLUMBIA. Mo. 

/\ man dil'd W1,dnnsday after ht• lost con­trol of his car and rraslrnd through tlw window of' a s1•rorHl-grud1\ classroom. Nonn nf 1ht> 22 d1ildrnn in thn dass wnrn seri­ously inj un•d. Tlw 7-and 8-ynar-old stu­dPnls WPrn out of' tlwir dnsks on tlrn othnr sidl' of' 1111' room looking at a pet guinea pig wlwn l.lw car 1:rashnd into thn room al Cran! 1•:l«rnlf'ntarv School. Tlw car lancll'd 011 top of a va1·.ani. dPsk. l•:ight childrnn suf'­f1•rf'd minor St'rapPs and bruisns. Mason (;PIH' Marlin. 7:l. was pronouncNI dnad at I lnivPrsity I lospi1al and Clinics about an hour al'tn tl11• rrash. Polirl' said tlwy wnrP still inVPstigating and did not know wlwth1•r Lill' drivPr di1•d from injurins suf­f'Prf'd in 1111· a1Tidl'11I or from ot.lwr caus1is as 111• drovl' llw rar. 
"Monica's Story" to reach bookshelves in March 
LONDON 

l\lonira l.Pwinsky's hook dntailing lwr affair with l'rPsidl'nt Clinton will bn publislwd on March :i. ht>r publishnr said Wnchwsday. ··Monirn's Story," the rl'stilt of 1.Pwinsky's col­la!Hlralion with l'rinrnss Diana hiographcr t\ndrnw Morton, will Im rnlcascd simultane­ously in tlw United States and Britain, said l.orrailw Tylnr, spok(iswoman for Michael O'Mara publislwrs. Michael O'Mara, chair­man of thP publishing company, has said I.Pwinsky was drawn to his publishing house hy Morton's involvement. "She likes tlw idea of' an author who is used to writing sympa­t.hPtir hooks about women who havc rnlation­ships with powPrful mnn," O'Mara said. "It wasn't lhn money. Slw could have got much hight~r priws clsPwhere." Lewinsky has agmccl to give lwr lirst TV inlnrviow lo ABC's Barbara WaltPrs, but it can't bP dono until I11d1•pP1HIPnt C:011 nscl KPnrrnth Starr gra11ts pPrmission. 
Sex toy ban draws criticism 
l lUNTSVILLli, Ala. 

WomPn who say they can't m1joy themselves in tlw h1idroom without sflx toys like vibrators askl'd a l'cidPral judge Wmhrnsday to block a rww /\lalmma law banning the sale of such il1•111s. Thosn dwll1inging llw 1998 law con­tPrHI it violat,is privacy rights by inclirnctly pro­hibiting adults from engaging in legal acts [}('hind closPd doors. But thn state contends tlwrn is no l'undanrnntal right to a product usPd to produce an orgasm. U.S. District .l11clg11 Lynwood Smith gavn no indication of' whnn hn might ruin. The ban on sex toys in this Bibl(i Bnlt stall' was signed by Gov. Fob .lanws, who was dnfoatnd last November. I le h,u:kc•d praynr in school and once threatened to call out tho National Guard to knnp the Ten C:ommandnwnts on a courtroom wall. 
¦&mt 


n,,,t..­

Dow 
AMEX: 
659.94

}ONES 
-.~.06 Nasdaq: 2248.91 -64.% NYSE: 580..15 -(d8 S&P 500: 1171.25 

907 

Composite
-4 0) 

Volt,me: -101.56 7,3211,871 
VOLUME LEADERS 

I 11\11'\;)\ I H h,J B ''11 l HAM,l \ t..\lN P1w·z 
PH.I. t:OMl'l! 11 H DEi.i -!\. 10 -7. ltJ()(l Kl.56 \IU I\D\( WI l 'OIU' \i\J I --1 OIi •6,2500 \S0.00 MIN MU ROSY\ll\l SllN(l .t,..i~ ~6..P7~ 9-J,()t:, IN/'I I I '()It(' t!'-,i"H. I 3tJ -1.1750 124.bZ u,co ...VHI \ts t:Sn.) .J.1)K .J, 1J425 lJ!i-.12 i\l11'1 l!.I> \t\Al I kl1\ AMXI -0.7.\ .1).49!.f) 
fl7.:\K­<au\\'tHO.;', ( ORI' (iWRX ...~.lri .56 + l.R75tJ S.2S <:11:-ll'AtJ, l 1~11'1 1 n R t ·r111 •. .2.1 ·I.Kil.> 
.JUHi Of(l\("1.1' C'llkl' Oil.Cl. ..J (ltJ -2. IH75 .11.25 Ill 11 "iUl I I 11 ('ORI' 111.S -K.OH •4.000(1 45.~0 

ASSOCIATED PRESS 
BERLIN 

Dozens of Kurdish protesters stormed the Israeli consulate in Berlin Wednesday, Israeli officials said. and three were shot dead, a day after the arrest of Kurdish rebel leader Abdullah Ocalan sparked demonstrations across Europe. 
t\t least 16 people were injured in the melee that began about 1:50 p.m. when a group of protesters tried to take the four-story building in a resi­dential, lakeside neighborhood of stately homes, German police said. 
Israel said its guards opened lire at protesters in self-defense, causing at least one of the deaths. Two Kurds were killed at the scene and a third died at a hospital, German police spokesman Norbert Gunkel said. But police did not specify who shot them. 
Tho Kurds appeared to be reacting to news reports that Israel's Mossad intelligence agency helped Turkey track down Ocalan..Israel denied any role in Ocalan's arrest. 
Kurdish protesters have mostly blamed Greece for Turkey's capture of Ocalan on Monday, and they occu­pied Greek missions in more than 20 European cities on Tuesday. 
In Tel Aviv, Israel, Israeli prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Israeli guards acted in self-defense when dozens of Kurds tried to storm the consulate, using hammers and clubs. lie said they climbed fences and crawled through the windows in the first and second floor. 
The first protester was killed when he tried to wrest a weapon from an Israeli guard, Netanyahu said. lie did not specify that the other two were killed by Israeli fire. 
"Our security guards have clear instructions to protect their own lives, protect the lives of Israelis and also to prevent, if necessary using force, the taking of hostages," Netanyahu told reporters. 
The Israeli leader expressed "regret about incidents in which peo­
pie are hurt or killed, but we are also responsible for def'ending Israel." 
t\n embassy employee was briefly taken hostage by the protesters but released after negotiations with German police. 
Netanyahu's account conflicted with reports from Kurds at the scene. 
One demonstrator said an Israeli guard fired his pistol without warn­ing into a crowd of up to :mo Kurds approaching the consulate. None ol' the Kurds was armed, said the wit­ness. who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
In the confusion of the gunfirn, about 20 Kurds managed to run into the consulate and remained inside. 
The Israeli Foreign Ministry said no Israelis were hurt. 
Riots and protests across Europe that startnd at dawn Tuesday had mostly died down by today. 
Kurdish protesters continued to hold Greek missions in the Swiss cities of' Bern and Zurich and in London. 
¦ FRANCE 
Kosovo talks show promise 
ASSOClATED PRESS 
RAMBOUILLET 

Despite Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic's defiant "no" to the chief mediator at the Kosovo peace talks, the British and French fornign ministers said Wednesday they detected some progress. 
Wilh less than three days to go to the Saturday noon deadline fo.r reaching a tlmw-year interim agrne­ment between Serbs and Kosovo Albanians. Foreign Ministers Hubert Vodrino of Franco and Robin Cook of Britain said both sides showed signs of moving closer to a deal. 
"It snems things are moving a bit,~ Vedrine said on the steps of the 14th­.century chnteau in Hambouillet, out­side Paris, where talks have been tak­ing place since Feb. 6. "But there is only a little tiipe left." 
KeY to any Kosovo peace agreement is the deployment. of a 30,000-strong NATO force inthe province to ensure the deal is implem~nted. Belgrade's 
,refusal so far to consider allowing such a force on Yugoslav territory has been a. major roadblock in the talks. Christopher Hill, the American who hoads the international mediating team at the talks, flew to Belgrade on Tuesdaywith a tough message for Milosevic: Sign a deal by Saturday or face NATO missiles. NATO has threat­ened to launch airstrikes on Yugoslavia if an agreement is not reached by Saturday. 
Milosevic, however, showed no sign of being intimidated. 
."Our negative stand on the pres­ence of foreign troops is not only the attitude of the leadership, but also of all the citizens of our country," Milosevic said in a statement carried by the official news agency Tanjug. 
The six-nation Contact Group on the Balkans, made up of the United States, Russia, Britnin, rvwce, Germany and Italy, brought Serbs and secessionist Albanians to the migotiating table to 'end a conllict that has cost an ostimated 2,000 lives and left hundreds of thousands homeless in the southern province of Serbia, the dominant of two Yugoslav republics. 
Asked if Milosevic's "no" to foreign troops was definitive, Cook said: "Mr. Milosevic rarely confines himself' to something as brief as saying no, and we are quite chmr that there have been instructions given to thn Serb delegation with respect to that." Ile did not elaborate. 
~---.----____,..........-~,~........----------­
page 6 The Observer • TECHNOLOGY NEWS Thursday, February 18, 1999 
27-year:..qtd tops· AOL manageII1ent 
Associated Press stEpopuJar,Fle~s ifxpe.etedto:x 
play amajor role iri koeping DULLES, Va,, talent a.11d. bolsterj9g rnprale · 
America Onlfoe Inc: con-atNetscape, which will cow firmed Wednesday it will tinue workingo,n Inte.rnet make Mt1rc Andreessen, the software as a division of 27-year-old co-founder of AOL. Netscape Communications Neti,~ape, . hased . Corp .. chief technology offi-Mountain View. Calif., cer when it completes its agyeed.Jn..,!',J'9veJAper tu be acquisition of Netscape this purchased by AOL for••stock spring. then valued a.1: $4.iblllio~: 
And.renssen, who was in :Both cpmp{lnies.ha.~saidw charge of software develop• the deal should be completed ment at Netscape., wilLreport e,a,rly tll.i$ S'f:lJhlg, The p,s.· to AOL chairman and chief Department of Justice is' executive Steve Case. The checlclpg the dt!fclosely,,'. move, first reportedlate last siiice it could have ai:drnpact month. is expected to help on the antitrust trial of convince other. Netscape Micros~f'tCotp.. > \· employees from leaving the Andreessen co,~founded company as AOL abso?"bS the NytSCaJ;?y inJ.g~4.~itr}ameswpioneer maker of Internet • Cfark and the company µi,adeT' software. p{)pular an In,ternetbr . r < 
Andreessen helped create ··•dtfvefdpiid •!,'>y A'.li:<l' ...· n''l the Internet browser that and some classroatesJrom made the World Wide Web the.U11jvendtyofIUfooJsi 
Banks prep for Y2K demands 
Associated Press tamers' questions. brochures 
on Year 2000 issues, toll-free WASHINGTON "hot lines" that customers can 
The customer is clearly dis­call, and Year 2000 seminars traught as he approaches the and Web sites. teller's window. "What happens The group also suggestedif the bank's computers go hay­that financial institutions point wire on New Year's Eve?" he out to customers that the Year 
wails. "Will I lose all my 2000 date change will not money?" 
affect their $100,000 federal 
Such scenarios are being deposit insurance coverage on played out in banks and thrifts each account. across the country -on video­"Banks are doing this already 
tape. Bank managers are using and are certainly concerned role playing and other training about getting their message techniques to prepare tellers out," said John Hall. a and other employees for the spokesman for the American 
onslaught of customers' ner­Bankers Association. the indus­
vous questions on the Year try's biggest trade group.2000 computer Now that the problem. bulk of techni­
Bankers cal Year 2000
THE BANKING INDUSTRY
have been problems have telling people IS SPENDING MORE been solved, not to panic. Hall said, "We
THAN $8 BILLION TO
trying to coun­recognize it's a teract dooms­RETOOL ITS COMPUTER SYS-communication day scenarios problem."
TEMS BEFORE THE MILLENNI·
of' millions of The Year Americans UM. 2000 problem draining their reflects pro­bank accounts gramming in this year. ATM many older machines. computers that credit cards, checks and bank­recognizes just the last two dig­
ing services will be functioning its of a year in reading a date. normally. industry officials Machines that haven't been have promised. upgraded are likely to interpret
A group or federal bank regu­Jan. 1, 2000,asJan. 1. 1900. latory agencies issued guide­The banking industry is lines Wednesday to lrnlp banks spending more than $8 billion and other financial institutions to retool its computer systems, grt that mnssage to their cus­
which arc being tested this tomers. 
year. 
The institutions "can address Industry officials also have customer expectations by warned that withdrawing mas­underscoring that maintaining sive amounts of cash from their customer confidence in the 
accounts could make con­financial services system -sumers vulnerable to being 
Intel unveils Pentium III 
Associated Press ness programs that depend on or a local neighborhood with 
the Pentium III. dynamic. rcalbtic effects. or 
SAN JOSE, Calif. After trying the array of make animated videos. pro­
A controversial new comput­computer products out for gramming digital puppets to er chip that can send the seri­about an hour. industry ana­move and speak.al number of an individual lyst Nathan Brookwood said Speech recognition pro­computer through the World he was neither overwhelmed grams are much simpler to Wide Web is being used by nor underwhelmed. use, allowing users to create. 
developers to offer realistic 3-'Tm whelmed," he said. 11dit and format documents D games,.speech recognition "With this chip, everything is without using a keyboard.and other advanced features. nice and smooth and glitzy," "With this chip. fighter jets 
More than 200 companies said Brookwood, who runs in our games 11y like they real­gathered in San Jose Insight 64, a Saratoga. Calif.­ly do in the air, they maneuver Wednesday to preview soft­based consulting firm. "The in 3-D enabling us to nnhance ware and other products hardware guys give us more our customer's experiencn,"designed for Intel Corp. 's computer power. The software said Kristen McEntire, a publi­
Pentium III microprocessor, 
cist for Electronic Arts, a available in personal comput­maker of computer games. ers at the end of the month. 
Intel managers and productThe event was part of a IMAGES, VIDEO AND 
designers at the evrmt tried to $300 million marketing cam­SOUND CAN BE DOWN· downplay concerns raised bypaign for the Pentium III, 
computer privacy advocates

LOADED OFF THE INTERNET
which will supply the brain­
about the nnw processor serial power for personal computers ONTO A PENTIUM III COM· number, or PSN. This feature initially costing about $2,000. 
allows the Pentium Ill chip to

PUTER IN SECONDS. THREE­
The Santa Clara, Calif. chip transmit a uniquP serial num­giant is touting the chip's fea­DIMENSIONAL PICTURES ber to Web sites that request it tures to persuade consumers to help verify a user's identity.
APPEAR VIVID AND CLEAR
to buy pricier machines Privacy advocates fear this instead of sub-$1,000 PCs, WITH DYNAMIC, REALISTIC !'nature will allow Internet 
which make Intel far less companies to gather private
EFFECTS. 

money. information from computer 
The Pentium III also will users about whrrt they've bricn help Intel compete against looking at. Advanced Micro Devices Inc., 
But Intel officials said those 

a smaller underdog that lately guys come along and find serial numbers will be trans­has been making inroads into ways to soak it up." mitted only with a user's per­Intel's turf by selling chips to Programs developed with mission. and that they're urg­
makers of the less expensive the Pentium JlI don't do any­ing computer makers to turn computers. thing entirely new. the option off when they ship"This isn't really a push to But in the past, 3-D images the compulers to consumers. promote a processor. It's more 
appeared jumpy and stilted on In addition. developers noted a push to arrest the slide computers. Downloading com­that some Internet businesses down the slippery slope plex programs through the will be giving computer users toward less expensive person­Internet was slow. And spoech the option of sending scram­al computers," said Van recognition programs took bled code. For example. some­Baker. direclor of market hours to "train" before body using an Internet bank­
research at Dataquest. a San responding to a computer ing site may send an encrypt­Jose, Calif. high-tech research user's voice. ed version of their serial num­firm. 
But images, video and sound ber in order to access their 
Intel leaked samples of the can be downloaded off the account. That computer user chips, using a code name Internet onto a Pentium III who goes on to buy a book ~Katmai,'' to several hundred computer in seconds. Three­through the Internet could 
software and hardware devel­dimensional pictures appear send a differently scrambled opers about a year ago so they vivid and clear -users can version of their serial number could invent games and busi-virtually explore outer space to the online book store. 

Limited Time 

On balance transfers 
6.9%APR
now and after the Year 2000 ­is a top priority of the institu­tion and its Sl'nior manage­ment," said the Federal flnancial Institutions Examination Council. 
Banks. S&Ls and credit unions need to make clear to customers what they are doing to ensure that people have access to their money and con­tinue to receive accurate infor­mation on their accounts, the government group said. 
It said the effort could include training of tellers and other employees to answer cus­robbed. 
The Federal Reserve has ordered an additional $50 bil­lion of' new currency to be put into cin:ulation in the event peopl(1 make a run on banks and automated teller machines late in the year. Fed governors have assured Congress there will be sufficient cash available to the system to cover a wave of bank withdrawals. 
By year's end, $200 billion in currency will be stored in gov­ernment vaults, up from the $150 billion normally held in reserve. 
Transfer those high-balance credit cards to your l\'otre Dame Federal Credit Union VISA or MasterCard and save. 
ONOTREDAME  www.ndfcu.org  
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION  (219) 239-6611 or (800) 522-6611  
For People. Not For Profit.  

•This special rate applies for the first 6 months _on balance transfers only. Rate wiU then revert back to 14.92%. It does not mcludc existing balances on any Notre Dame Federal Credit Lnion MasterCard or VISA. Promotion valid January 8, through March 31, I 999. 
lnJcpendcnl of the University 

,---.,---­
Thursday, February 18, 1999 The Observer. TECHNOLOGY NEWS page 7 
National guard prepares for Y2K crisis in 2000 
As~ociatcd Press 
WASIIINGTON 

National (iuard units around thf! country are bP.ing trainnd to deal with phonr.-systcm outages and othnr chaos that could rnsult from compuh1r crashes when tlrn ynur 2000 b11gins. 
In Washington state, half of Lhn guard's ground troops will he on duty ()nc. 31 and .Ian. 1. Other statns plan to have units on standby in case of blackouts, looting or other problems that might occur if computers shut down because they can't com­prehend the date 2000. 
"The business we're in is to help communities when they're overwhelmed by an event, a blizzard, riot or other natural or manmade disastr.rs," said Lt. Col. Tim Donovan. spokesman for the National Guard in Wisconsin. "We have the resources. And many of the consequnnces being speculated about Y2K are not unlike the things we've been doing for years." 
The potential problem stems from how computers deal with the date. Since most computers only recognize the last two dig­its of a date, such as the 99 in 1999, some of them are likely to interpret 00 as 1900. 
Most government officials expect only minor problems from the so-called Y2K bug and say training the National Guard 


Graduatirn.! college seniors arc invited to apply for the 26th annual Pulliam J(;urnali;m Fellowships. We will grant I 0-wcek summer intern­ships 10 .20 journalism or lihcral mts majors in the August 1998-June 1999 graduating classes. 
Previous intcnv,hip or pmt-time experience al a ncw:-.paper is desired. or other demonstration of writing and repmting ability. Those who go through the Fellowships often find new professional opportunities open­ing up at other newspapers during and after the program. Winners will receive a $5.250 stipend and will work at either T!,e !11dia11apolis Star aml The Indianapolis New'i or The Ari:mw Re1mhlic. Opportunities for online training are available, along with reporting experience at our major m1..·tropolitan daily newspapers. · 
.-\11 l·ntrie~ must he postmarked by March I, 1999. Successful appli­..:,111h "·ill he notified on or before April I and will be asked to respond i111mL'diately with u letter of intent, at which time one-third of the cash ~rant will he mailed to the Fellow. ' 
To request an application packet. visit our Web \ill'. l.>lllail us or write: 

Ru:-.:-.1..'11 B. Pulliam 
Pulliam 1-'ellov..·ships Director 
The Indianapolis News 

P.O. Box 145 E-mail: pullia111<!!1~tamcws.com Indianapolis, IN 46206-0145 
Wch \lie: www.stamcws.com/pjf 
is merely a precaution. But some people are hoarding canned goods and planning to withdraw their money from banks in case deliveries can't be made and bank machines can't operate. 
Others are predicting shut­downs of airports, train stations and power generators. 
Just in case, the adjutant gen­eral in Washington state rescheduled a drill so that 3,000 guardsmen would be on duty on New Year's Eve and .Jan. 1. 
The decision to call out the Guard in each states rests with the governor. If troops are mobilized, they likely would ho called to aid civilian law­enforcement, transportation agencies and emergency med­ical crews. 
In New Mexico, oflicials plan to keep all 28 state armories open on New Year's Eve, said Guard spokesman Tom Koch. In Rhode Island, the Guard's adjutant general chairs regular meetings with state agency rep­resentatives to discuss contin­gency plans. 
"The general has asked all department heads, all heads or local emergency management agencies to go back and exam­ine their plans based on a worst-case scenario estimate and come back with any kind of situation that they might not be able to handle," said 1st Lt. Gloria Haggarty, a Guard spokeswoman. "Based on that information, we're going to develop additional plans." 
Maintaining communication will be vital if problems do occur, said Lt. Col. Tom Schultz, a National Guard Bureau spokesman. In May, the National Guard will conduct the first national communicntions drill to simulate the loss of teln­phone service and to test its high-frequency radio system. 
Capt. Neal O'Brien. a spokesman for the Ohio Guard, said slates arn used to handling dire emergencies. 
¦ TECHNOLOGY 

AT&T to take over able giant TCI 
WASHINGTON :ilw AT&:1' Corp.'s plan to take }"f?Vt;\t c•able giant TCI was •*approved by federal regulators 
Wednesday, clearing the way ·. for a deal that could provide<c~nsUfil~rs a new choice for 
)./'local pHone service. 
The · Federal CQnrmunjcations Commission itnptist\d no major conditions on the deal, which was valued at nearly $32 billion when it 
&Was (U)~ounced in. June. Based 
i on J1i'ch5sing stock pric~s Wednesday, the deal is now valued at about $43.5 billion. 
Jhe . Inerger .. holds..... the 
t promise' of era.eking·open local phone monopolies to competi­tion, regulators concluded. Local phone competition has focused mostly on high-volume business customers. not resi­dential customers. 
The merger also offers one­stop shopping for loco.I calling, Internet access and long-dis­tance service . 
"I am optimistic because the combined resources of AT&T and TCI surely will generate a very substantial effort to expand the choices now avail­able to residential phone sub­scribers," said FCC Chairman Bill Kennard. 
Tht, FCC did not force AT&T and Tole-Communications Inc. to provide other companies with access to TCI's high-speed cable TV lines. 

\ake your first step towards making millions HI 
First Prize: $750.00 
Have an invention that would make millions? Have ideas for a business that should be out there? 
The Business Plan Contest is returning to Notre Dame and all are welcome and encouraged to participate. 


2nd
·Informational Meeting: 
Thurs., Feb. 18 at 7:00PM 
Foster Room LaFortune 

Sponsored by NDCIBD 


. ,.~1,,,­
-,.~:--· 
-,. . ~~~l-/:::}:· 
.,I .:'.._ 
~ .; ;, 
. <::"j~ 
~·-·.,. 
"\--r(j)!•i .· 
.,l·;'; 
-=-~;:i:....,. 
.. . • 

t}·~.~:'rt-f~;,!1-~. 
. ­

t'<il~' 
:-'••. 
. ,_.,~.-._';'.'\it· ..~'~t\c~··._,:,._ ..\'· 
HAMMES 

NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
IN TH E EC K CENT.ER 
Thursday, Fehruary 18, 1999 The Observer• NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Additional warplanes ordered for potential airstrikes 
airstrikcs against the Serbs and is not required to consult alliance members again, Foley said. 
"As a practical matter," however, Solana probably would talk to the United States and possibly other allies before ordering bombardment, the U.S. spokesman said. 
The Clinton administration took the tough line after Milosevic was approached in Belgrade and rejected a NATO peacekeeping force in Kosovo as part of a settlement to end conflict between Sorb troops and ethnic Albanians seeking lo pry the province away from Serbia, the predominant republic of Yugoslavia. 
Secretary of State Madeleine Albright, unable to sway Milosevic in a telephone call Tuesday, is weighing a deci­sion whether to intervene in the negotiations again. 
She and fivr: foreign minis­ters set the deadlirrn last 
London  $200  
Madrid  $234  
Vienna  $286  
Paris  $226  

BOOK SEARCH 
• 
Used, rare and out-of-print books 

• 
Initial cost of $2.00 

• 
Nationafiy -circulated ad 

• 
Success rate of 50% 

• 
Time Required: 2 months 


ERASMUS BOOKS 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 4661 7 (219) 232-8444 
Ile did not specify the base in Europe. 
"This is lo move them into placn in case" the Serbs block a peace doal and NATO decides to launch airstrikes, Bacon said. 
Cohen's nrder followed another warning Wednesday from tho Clinton administra­tion to Yugoslav Prflsident Slobodan Milosevic that the Sorhs facn "swift and Sf>vere" consoqucnccs if' they persist in rnjncting a NATO peace­konping forr,o in Kosovo. 
Demanding that Milosovir, rh an g(1 his rn ind by noon Saturday. James Foley, a State Departmont spokesman, said: "If' il would take some military action to force Mr. 
SENIOR ND PRE-MED STUDENTS 
•
ACCEPTED TO MEDICAL SCHOOL AND ABLE TO DEFER ADMISSION1 

•INTERESTED 
IN EXPLORING PRIMARY CARE MEDICINE AND HEALTH MINISTRY? 

•DESIRE 
TO SERVE AMEDICALLY INDIGENT COMMUNITY IN ACHRISTIAN SITTING? 


vo<'"''6e,'\THE THOMAS DOOLEY -<-'<'e <' SERVICE AWARD PROJECT 
rl ,pa,, t""'l ~!=>feet a St. fl~t. '.i ';+ieatd ee,eu,, "" S-el. 'c1uui .ifl-.JM-d 4 tk 7t'Z) At«.HUU: al St. p~ 11~. 
I •Considerable stipend to cover Room, Board, and Health Insurance 
I 
Applications now available at The Center for Social Concerns! 
David Sparks Andrea Smith Shappell 
1998/99 Dooley Volunteer 232-4070 CSC @ 631-5779 
Milosevic to his senses, so be it." 
The order, signed Wednesday afternoon by Cohen, directs that the planes depart U.S. bases within the next 4 8 hours. Officials said the F-l 17s are now at Holloman Air Force Base in New Mexico. 
The additional planes bring to 260 the number of U.S. air­craft that would be available for any NATO strikes against Serbia, Bacon said. Additional 
U.S. airrraft, including bombers, have boen ordered to a standby position in case they are ncerled. hr added. 
NATO Secretary General Javier Solana has h·ad authori­ty sinrr. Jan. 30 to order 
There's a whole world out there. Explore it with Contiki 
<J.,e,.p hd,h. (,r,.,,._( 1--dv1(e. /1/io. p,ople. 
FarH u11 from lndlan;ipolh, each way bu•d on a RT pun:hu,.fitru do not lnclud• U.,cu,whlch un total betwten $l and $80. lnt'I Student 10 m llf be r1q111f"'l:d. hr1:1 •~ valid for departuru In March ind are 1ubj1ct to chan,p. Raurtctlont apply. Cali for our low domes.tic fare• and faru to other world wide de1t1natlon1. Don't Joriet to order your Eurailpau! 
tii\@40 Travel ~ 
OEE: Council on International Educational Exchange 
1-800-2Council 
www. counc1 l travel. com 
~ 

weekend in Paris. With tlrn deadline less than three days away, the Serbs had not budged on their opposition to NATO peacekeepers being sent to Kosovo, a senior U.S. official said Wednesday. 
Foley said the door remains open for the Yugoslav leader to yield to the demands of the United States, Britain. France, Germany, Italy and Hussia. Togetlrnr thci six nations com­prise a Contact Group that ovtirsens tho Balkans. 
"We do not see thn issue as closed," he said. "Prnsident Milosevir, still has time to s1rn the light." 
Also, Folny said some progress in the negotiations has been madn on othnr issues, and lawyers am work­ing on texts of an accord to ond the yearlong Kosovo con­flict that has claimed 2,000 lives and routed some :rno.ooo pnopln f'rom tlrnir homos. 
" T h n S11 r h sido is dnu Iing with thn prospoct of a pnaco agrenrnnnt," the spokesman said. 
Despite Milosovic's dnfiant "no·· on NATO p11acokenpnrs, the British and French f'ornign ministers also detected some progress. 
And Yuk Draskovir,, the Serbian deputy prinrn mi II is­te r, said tlrn Serbs would accept a "just agreement" pro­vided it nasnd Pconomir and political sanctions 011 Yugoslavia, such as a ban 011 its partkipation in internation­al financial organizations. 
Associated Pre•• 
WASIIINCT0N 

Tlin Unilnd States on Wednesday ordnred an addi­tional :i l AmPrican warplanes lo l·:urop!1 for possibln airstrik11s against Stlrbia if a p1rncP agrP1rnwnl over Kosovo is not l'f\lU'hPd this wcoknnd. 
S1•cn\lary or D1•fonso William Colwn sigrwcl an order din·ct­ing l 2 Air ForcP F-1 l 7 stnalth fightN-homlinrs. IO Navy EA­(dl 1· IPl'trnn ic warf'ar<i pla1ws and 21) rl'f\11-ling plarws now in Lill' llnitPd Stat1•s to a hasp in I:urop1•. 
"Tlw\''I1 IH' moving in tlHi rwxl ;·.oupl«' of clays lo Luropn,"Colwn·s spokPsman, K1•1111Plh Ban,11, told rr•por(Prs. 
"It must be asked how many Christians really know .and put into practice the principles of the church's social doctrine." --John Paul II -­INFORMATION OPEN HOUSE for A NEW UNDERGRADUATE CONCENTRATION •ID CATHOLIC SOCIAL TRADITION THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 7 P.M. ­8 P.M. CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS Come join us and find out about a new program where you can learn the Catholic tradition regarding civil society, the economy, church, and state.  

Thursday, February I 1, 1999

The Observer. ADVERTISING NEWS 
page 10 
New CK ads draws criticism 
The Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Even among the provocative advertisements of Times Square, Calvin Klein's new billboard for children's underwear may have gone too far for some critics. 
The·billboard, which has little boys and girls in under­wear jumping on a sofa, is scheduled to be unveiled Thursday. A black and white photograph of the promotion was published in full-page newspaper ads Wednesday. 
"Whether you like it or not you have pedophiles in this society. Anything that could get them excited is detrimen­tal. irresponsible and reck­less," said Donald Wildmon, president of American Family Association in Tupelo, Miss. He said the picture is "noth­ing more than pornography." 
Klein's office did not return calls seeking comment. But Klein spokesman Robert Treifus told the New York Post that the billboard ­timed to open in middle of Fashion Week, a seriP,s of New York fashion shows ­was "fun. entertaining adver­tising" for a new kids' under­wear line. 
Mayor Rudolph Giuliani, who championed the clean up of Times Squarn, said there was nothing the city could do. 
"The First Amendment allows a whole range of expression," he said. But he added: "I think it was done on purpose, and I think it's in very bad taste." 
Times Square is already full of ads with scantilv clad men and women selling such things as bras and sorks. 

Klein bought the advertis­ing space from TOI, which leases the space from The New 42nd Street, a nonprofit agency that uses the money from the sale of billboard space to help improve busi­ness in the area. 
"We actually think the New York Post has stirred up a baby brouhaha about a new campaign that is actually, in 
'WE 
ACTUALLY THINK 
THE NEW YORK 

POST HAS STIRRED UP A BIG 
BROUHAHA ABOUT A NEW CAMPAIGN THAT IS ACTUAL­
LY, IN OUR MIND, NOT AT ALL OFFENSIVE AND IS SORT 
OF SWEET.' 
CORA CAHAN 
SPOKESPERSON FOR NYC BILLBOARD OWNERS 

our mind, not at all offensive and is sort of sweet," said Cora Cahan, director of the nonprofit group. ''It's a group of kids jumping up and down on a sofa in underwear that looks like bathing suits." 
Bernard Yenelouis of the Jnternutional Center for Photography in Manhattan said the advertisement was "a very ordinary image," sim­
ilar to family snapshots. 
"It has a sense of nostalgia and classicism that removes it from being a snapshot," he said. 
Hobert Peters, prnsident of the New York-based Morality in Media, disagreed. 
"You can P-nvision this pho­
tograph taken by accident ­
an innocent photo taken by a 
mom. But at Calvin Klein 
nothing is innocent," he 
asserted. "If the outline of the 
little boy's genitals can be 
seen in a photograph taken 
by a professional photograph­
er. that's not an accident." 
Klein's ads have often been 
at the center of controversy. 
In 1980. Brooke Shields told 
the world at 15, "Nothing 
comes between me and my 
Culvins," and in the early 
1990s, Klein pioneered the 
"heroin chic" look that cata­
pulted waif-like model Kate 
Moss to stardom. 
A 1995 Calvin Klein jeans 
ad campaign, featuring mod­
els, some as young as 15, in 
provocative poses and set· 
tings drew fire from 
President Clinton and child 
welfare groups. Klein pulled 
that campaign, but was back 
a few months later with ad 
that showed a model in 
briefs, his legs spread. 
The head of Manhattan's 
Deutsch Advertising Agency 
said Klein's latest ad is bad 
business. 
"Hp's treading in a very 

dangerous place," Donny 
Deutsch said. Child pornogra­
phy "is a very real problem, 
and to even play in the area 
is not appropriate." 
~2.40 rnilliqn, porn­. 314 million in. fiscal 
o'fi fotnpany• · tl:gJnove that ffs, clqsing 
d.U()ing athh,ti" speh~ing. the co11Jpany .will 
million· oII·adver~ itil'llS said. Wall aiSed the rnove... 

For discreet professional care... 
offcampus. 
Psychiatry Eating Disorders and Chemical Dependency 
Memorial 
Pathways Center for Behavioral Health"' 
MARNIN FISCHBACH, M.D. 
Psychiatry 

GERALD P. MYERS, M.D. 
Eating Disorders and Chemical Dependency 
284-3153 

HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES 
HCA is a year-long lay volunteer program in six cities across the United States. Now in our 22nd year, and with 37 recent college grads, HCA is looking for adventurous souls for our '99/'00 program year. 

Hayward (Bay Area), CA Simple Lifestyle Colorado Springs, CO Brockton (Boston area), MA
Spirituality 
Portland, OR Community Living Wilke~-Barre, PA Others as we grow! 
Discernment Evenings (Simulating the HC Associate Community Experience) 
Sunday, February 21 

Dorothy Day Catholic Worker House 502 N. Notre Dame Avenues(@ NE CornerofCedar·and ND Ave) 5:00 p.m. Mass 
6:00-8:00 p.m. Dinner and discussions RSVPto 219-631-5521, nd.hcassoc.l@nd.edu 
Rides available (with advance notice) from Notre Dame or St. Mary's Campus 
or more information, contact : Holy Cross Associates PO Box 668, Notre Dame IN 46556 Ph: 219-631-5521 Fa~:219-631-6813 E-mail: nd.hcassoc.1 @nd.edu http://www.nd.edu:80f hcassoc/ 

Tlrnrschy, f<dm,ary 18, 1999 The Observer• AGRICULTURAL NEWS page 11 
Corn, soybean prices slide again 
The As•odaied Pre;.~ 
CIIICAGO 

Wheat l'utures wnre up. while corn and soybean f'uturns foll in rlealings Wedrrnsday on the Chicago Board of Trad". 
AflPr continuing tn drop na.rly in thn clay on worrh'S ovci· tho lack of nxport dnmand, whtiul for Mardi rlr•livorv rallil,d Oil news t.hnt tlrn lf.S. DC'partmcnt of Agriwlturr may meet with Hussiun ofTiduls to discuss another food-aid parkago. 
March soybuans abm foll in respons11 to reports of cnntin­und good Wl"ather in Soulh America. The murkct hus already heon pressured by pr"dirtions of' noar•rnror<l crops in llrnzil ancl plans to 
The Office of Information Technologies' Solutions Center is having an early "Spring Technology Sale." 
February 19, 1999 
9:00 a.m -6:00 p.m. 
University of Notre Dame Stepan Center 
All new computers, monitors, and printers have been discounted beyond our already low educational pricing. Used systems, from the Campus Workstation Program, have been priced to sell quickly. 
If you'1c in the market for a computer, come to Stepan Center to see for yourself. 
You can find more information and a partial list of available systems on our Web Site at.. 
http://www.nd.edu/ ~solution 


Preseason 
1u@/o-40®/o uik' 
An Mer·cna.:1dise 

NOTRE DAME GOLF SHOP 
Open 11-4 Daily Golf Apparel From: 
Cutter & Buck, Hilfiger, Ashworth Ladies wearfrom Elandale, Sport Haley, EPPro 
Rockne Memorial 219-631-6425 
plant more soybean crops in Arg,rn1.inn -all of which would compote with U.S. 
crops. 

Meanwhile, March cnrn fin­ished slightly lower, though the drop in grain futures prictis was soflened a hit as llrn dollar finished lower against maj<lr currnncies in European trading. Gold prices worn mixed. 
In trading Wodnesday, wheat for Mai·ch delivery rose 2 1/2 cents lo $2.54 3/4 i~ huslwl: March corn !'ell 1/2 1:cnt to $2.13 1/2 a bushel; March oats finished up 1/2 at $1.i>1 l/2 a bushel; Marr.h soybeans fell 1 1/2 cent to $4.86 l/4 a bushel. 
Cattle and livB hog futures also fell on tho Chicago MP-rcantile Exchange. 
Orange juice, coffee futures rise 
The Associated Press 
NEW YOHK 
Orange juice futures contin­uml Lo slicln Wnd1rnsday on tlrn Board of Tradn of' tho City of' Now York amid cxpcclalions or humpor citrus crops in Florida, tlw stato that accounts for 90 pnrccnl of' all U.S. orangP juir.o. 
Elsowlwre on tho New York Board of Trade, coffoo futures rngained som11 of' Tuesday's lossns. Wheat l'uturns also ral­lied on Lim Chicago Board or Trade, whiln corn and sovboan futurns foll. · 
Oil futures lingered near lheir r"ccnl lows. 
A mild wintor in Florida, along with the U.S. Department of' Agriculture's incrnasc in the sizo or that statn's crop, has been fueling a plummet in frozen, conc(rntratnd orange juice prices since fall -a fall that continued Wednesday. Orange juice for March delivery dropped :1.20 cents lo 84.25 cents a gallon, rallying a bit from a low or 8:-1.:iO conts earli­er in tlrn day. 


"Mnst indicators arn indicat­ing that wo could go lownr yet," said Ernie Thomas, a citrus specialist with Morrill Lynch & Co. in Winter Park, Fla. II<! thinks orangn juice futures could f'all as low as 77 cents a gallon before leveling off. 
Still, Thomas said ho is "a lit­tle suspect" of Urn dropping pricP.s, particularly since cash prices for juice from Florida and Brazil am ahout $1.40 a gallon. 
"All these pricos are consid­erably higher than what the market is," Thomas said. "Overall, for the longer term, r think the market will go high­er." 
William O'Neill, Merrill Lynch's director of commodity resnarch, said he's also been a bit puzzled by what he called an "anemic" coffer. market. I le speculated that the devaluation of the Brazilian rr.al was hold­ing off any optimism over smaller than expected coffee crops in Colombia, Mexico and even Brazil.. 
On Wednesday, coffee futures did regain some of tho previous day's sharp losses -though mostly because fears about the 
U.S. Gre1m Coffen Association's inventory report for Central America proved to be some­what overblown, O'Neill said. 
Marknl participants on Tunsday drove down pricns to t.lwir lownst since Ortohor amid nxpnctalions tlw association would rnport that Cnnlral /\merican inventoriPs had incrnasnd as murh as 400,000 bags in January. Alfor trading end 11d Tunsd ay, thn group rnport«'d that stocks jump1•d 34],000 hags to 1.751 million bags. 
On Wndrrnsday, March arahi­ca col'fon ros<' l .60 cnnts to $1.0255 a pound. 
Mcanwhilo. al'tcr continuing to drop early in the day on wor­ri<'s ovnr tlrn lack of' oxport demand, whnat l'or March delivery rallind on the Chicago Board of Trade on news that tlrn lJ .S. Dopartment of' /\griculturn may mnet with Hussian officials to discuss anotlwr l'ood-aid package. 
March soyhnans also foll in rnsponsn lo reports of' contin­ued good weathnr in South 
America. Thn market has 
already hmm prnssurncl by pre­dictions of' near-record crops in Brazil and plans to plant morn soybean crops in ArgP-ntina ­all of which would compote with U.S. crops. 
March corn f'inishod slightly lownr, though tho drop in grain futuros pricos was soflnrrnd a bit. as lhc dollar finishncl lower against major curnincins in European trading. 
A wnaker dollar can mPan increasnd export demand. 
r------------~----------,
,,.,., NOTRE DAME SUPIII DISCOUNT: 1200FF
a 
0N ANY SPA!
laarEL Available to all students and Parents with this coupon. .. (No ID Required) 

~.\' ® Valid Sunday -Thursday •not valid for Special Eveats I --~-80 at Exit 77 • 52825 US JJN • South Bend, IN• 272-900'!.J
L----------------------­
• 
Free Continental Breakfast 

• 
Free HBO, CNN, ESPN 

• Free local Call, Fax \e• 
-~' 

• \1~ i.;.,~
• Kitchenettes o~\ 1~ ·· 
.~· 
272-9000 

I I, I' I I 
I 
• I, I I•/ I I I, 
VIEWPOINT 
page 12 -------------------------
----------------Thursday, February 18, 1999 
UNJJJru~~

THE OBSERVER 
NnmE DAME OFFICE: l'.0. Box Q, Norrc Dame. !N 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY\ l!HICE: 309 Haggar, Norrc Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Brian Reinth;1)er Kyle Carlin 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR Heather MacKenzie 

NEWS EDITOR .......................Michelle Krupa AoVERTISfNG MANAGER........................ Bryan Lurz VIEWPOINT EDITOR .................. Eduardo Llull Ao DESIGN MAr-;AGER ...•...••.•.•...•...•... Bren Hudar SPORTS ElmoR ....................Kathleen Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER ...................Michael Brouillet SCENE EDll'ORS...........................Sarah Dylag CoNTROI.I.ER .....................................Oave Rogero 
Kristi Klitsch WEB ADMINISTRATOR .......................Allison Krilla SAINT MARY'S EOITOR ...... /1.1. Shannon Ryan GRAPHICS EntTOR ...............................P,re Cilella 
PHOT() EDITOR ··-·-···· .... •··· ..... Kevin nalum 
'l'hc ()bscrvcr i.s rhc indcpcndc1it 1lL'\\'sp;1pcr ptihlishcd by rhc itml.cnts of rhc Univcr~ity ofNnm!' D:m,e dt1 l~c and Saim Mary's College. It does not 1ic•ccc;s,1rily reflect the policies of the administration nf cil11er institution. The news is reported as accuratdy :md ohjec1ively :ts possible. Un:;igned edirori.ils n:prcsenr che opinion of the m:ijority of chc 
Ediwr~in~Chief, M.maging faiiror. A~c;isr:rnr Man:1.ging Editor and deparrmcm editor.Ii. Comment:uit's, !cm!'rs anJ c:ohmms pr~senr the view~ llf rhc .turhors. and not necessarily those ofThe l)b-\crver. Viewpoint space is :IV:'lilahlc to JJI members of rhe Notre Damc/Si1in1 M;1ry's rnmmunity and to all readers. The free cxpres5ion ofvarying opinions 
rhrough lcrten; is c11nlur;1gcd. 
Contacting The Observer 
Editor-in-Chief 6j 1-4542 Business Office 631-Bl3 M::maging Editor/Assi~Tant MF 6.11-4541 Advertising G.~ 1-6900/8840 News/Phoro (ij1-5323 Sy.stems 631-8839 Sports 63 l -454j Fax 651-6927 Sce11e/Sainr Mary's 6.ll-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Vicwpoinr. l@nd.edu Day F.ditor/Viewpoinl 631-5303 Ad E-Mail observer'!r'd;uwi n.cc. nd .cdu Office Manager/General Information 6.ll-7471 News E-Mail observer.ob~ncws. I@nd.tdu 

¦ LETTF.P. TO THE EmTOR 
That Time of Year Again? 
Okay. So we all know that it is Black I say "we" because we arc the com­any indication as to what the race or because he was a lawyer and Ilislorv Month. We all see the various munity. We are the college institu­ethnic origin of the intruder is. Yet, Jackson's character worked at a mill. activit"ies on campus that our profes­tions. We are all guilty for standing by the film's director, Wayne Wang, casts McConaughey's homo had flowers sors encourage us to attend. We watching a dark-skinned blooming outside. Standing in the glance at the articles in the paper this happen. Black man in doorway was a beautiful Judd, dressed about cultural diversity and what our I am not the role. When in pure white. Sweaty, tired, but still
'WHY IS IT THAT WHENEVER SOMETHING inslitulions are doing with the concept saying that VIOLENT HAPPENS IN THE COMMUNITY asked about looking like a Hollywood bombshell. of the aforementioned. We have lis­there is the role cast­Jackson's house was dark. creaky.
INVOLVING SOMEONE BLACK, THE NEWS

tened and listened, but have we actu­some per­ing, the direc­with wild things growing everywhere.
ALWAYS SEEMS TO FIND EYEWITNESSES TENDING 
ally heard? son, sitting tor couldn't Emerging from the dismal shadows of This is my third year in college, and in a back TO BE DARK-SKINNED WOMEN, OTTEN WITH answer. Maybe the entry way was a considerably I have listfmed to the numerous theo­room, calcu­he did not even plump, dark-skinned woman with a
CURLERS AND SCARVES AROUND THEIR HEADS? 
ries and concepts regarding race rela­lating all the think about it. dingy pink sun dress on. She is not 
AND IF THE POLICE ARE SOMEHOW INVOLVED,
tions. I have watched documentary ways he can He cast what ugly, but not nearly as pretty to look at after documentary. I have been to the keep a peo­THEIR SPOKESPERSON IS ALMOST ALWAYS he thought was as Ashley Judd. Ilcllo'? Mammy'! While Black History events planned. I did ple in the appropriate. the movie's plot certainly revolved
BLACK. To MAKE IT LOOK BETTER I SUPPOSE. 
this for two years. But, this year was dark until Or how about. around race relations in the south. its
To MAKE IT SEEM A LITTLE MORE KOSHER I
different, it wasn't about the brilliance the shortest what he sternotypical undertones cannot be of Professor Pierce's lectures. It wasn't month of SUPPOSE.' thought was ignored. about the way Professor Dunn made the year the norm? Why is it that whenever something me think about popular images when I rolls I watched tho violent happens in tho community watched television. It was about me around. Sometimes we just don't movil~ "A Time to Kill" last weekend involving someone black, the news hearing. I listened for two years. but it think. That is the problem. for the 10th time. Instead of arguing always seems to find eyewitnesses wasn't until now, after some AFAM Let me dazzle you with something I which scene Matthew McConaughey tending to be dark-skinned women. electives, that I began to think often with curlers and scarves 
. ,,.
about everything. Then I started ~ around their heads? And if the noticing things around me and .nJ ;;?--police are somehow involvPd, began asking "why'?" t--\N~'__.,,,..,-,,.,... ~~ their spokosporson is almost 
Why is it that all of these events ~~ ~Q\\... always Black. To mah it look that arc supposed to "enhance ..-;;:"'. FcB~ARU fli better I suppose. To mak(1 it diversity" arc only publicized ~ -I ,.,..__. seem a littln more koslrnr I sup­during one month? -pose. 
Why is it that I am quoted in ......_ _,..-..,. ~ -~ llave you nver really thought 
the paper when their is an article ~-~ _.,-.-~ :,..~ about this? I mean really on diversity but not when the ~~;;_,,.-----­thought about it? llollywood. article is about a student's excite-I~ South Bond. Saint Mary's or ment regarding the new techno­Notre Dame. These issues am logical developments in the com­everywhere. Thes(1 notions and puter lab? .,-,.· ideas nxist in tlw movies we son, 
Every year the same article is in tlrn homes we were raised in. printed about the same time. and in tlw company WP kePp.
J?:.
Every year, tho same minority ~_;a We pay over $20,000 to karn at professors and administrators top quality institutions and lis­arc contacted for comments or to learned in my African American looks perfect in (all by the way), some­ten to top quality professors. lsn 't it speak about their experiences. Our Popular Imagination class. the 1995 thing else caught my attention. The about time we start hearing? college institutions seem to forget that motion picture "Smoke" starring houses. Matthew's house as well as these people arc hem year round. yet Harvey Keitel and William Hurt, is Samuel Jackson's house were both Kimmi Martin we only recognize lhem for their based on a book of the same title. In small and considerably representative Junior, Le Mans Hall achievements and insight during the one scene, a thief breaks into an of a lower family income. But marrl 225@sai111marys.edu shortBst month of the year. apartment. The author does not give McConaughey's home was nicer. Not February 17, l 999 
¦ DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 

"MJK/3: [X} YaJ/A/ANT
ft/UCOME 'llJ 
rR££P/X
MAI/..BA6 
OFHOT, I £1.JSTY 
'99.' 

MAlt-/ COMIM 
NURGi:G.7 •
~'IP~ 

¦ Quon: OF THE DAY 
,Jf you can smell what the Rock is cooking ...' 
-"The Rock," Rocky Maivia 

VIEWPOINT 
________________________ page 13
Thursday, h-bruary 18, 1999 OB~ERVER 
¦ Lt lTf.:R TO THE EDITOR 
PSA Fighting the Good Fight 
111 rPply Lo I.aura Anlkovv,tik's FPb. l<, ViPwpoinl rolumn. I would likn to nWt\l l11·r challPng,• lo to stn11d up l'or what I lwlit•v1• in. I was a 111Prnl11•r ol' tlw l'rogrPssiv1• Stu!l1•11t t\llia1wP, I volu11­l1•1•n•d at the \Vonwn's ltnso11rui Crntn in II numlwr of rol!'s ovPr thP past r,iw yPars. I am a strong adv1wat1• for l'rnP sJwPrh. l am a l"Pminisl and I am pro-1\l'P/anli·dl'ath p1•1Htlty. Nmw of llwsP idt•als. I lll'liPVP, arP mutually 1•xclu­
siv1•. 
I agrP1• with Ms. Antknwaik. that WP ought lo "show co1H-cr11 !'or the weakest in our socil'tV." Thal is why I havn _joi11Pd protPsls againsl th1• dt•ath 1wnal­Ly, argtwd against Llw rt\r.cnt. bombings in Iraq. lrnvP wrill.Pll !Ptt<•rs to llw C:liilll'S(' gov1•rnmP11I llrJ.;ing 1111' rPll'HSI' of pro-dPmorr,u·y prisonnrs. loudly cry for an 1•1111 to homopl10hia and romrnit. mys1•\f' lo a pro-Iii'.• stalll'P. 
I clisagn•c•. howc•v,•r. with hPr clrnrac­lPl'i1alio11 of' th!' l'SA. Slw dPsrrilws .. 1111' l'S.r\'s notions on abort.ion and snx­uality" as u11i11tPlligiblt• -at tinws arguing from 1111' sla11dpoi11l of Catholic moral tPad1i11g. and at tinws not. I would !ik1• !\-ls. ,\nlkowaik 10 meal! llial 1h1• arg111111•11ts givPn l1y t.lw !'SA using Calhcilii-moral tl•aching Wt\rt' in rPply lo arg1111w11ts grou11d1•d in Catholic moral tParhing. Thal is, Llwy Wl\l'C' rt>pli1·s rlPmonstrating inconsistl'ncins in thP r\dministralion's claim that the i111'111sio11 of sPxual oriPntat.ion to tlw 11011-clisniminalion r!ausn contravPnnd 011 Llw Catholit-naturP of tlw UnivPrsity. 
By and larg1•, how1iv1•r. Urn PSA is a sPn1lar organization (as arn many otlwr socinl justice groups!. and has inl<'nlionally rPmaincd on thn outsidr. 111" Llw abortion dPbate. At Lim begin­ning of' this past semnstr.r the group dchatPd wlwtlrnr of not il would have an of'lit'ial stance on abortion. and t\Vl'ntually decidnd lo taku none at all. l'arlly lrnrause Llw group was divided as lo what it should bP. but primarily bot'ausn Llwy concluclcd that the issue was ton id1•olngically divisive. It was notPd that tlw lnvnl or dnbatti on cam­pus rPgarding abortion was little bnttcr than rrn1111• calling and insults !please rnrcr back to nearly every abortion­n\latc•d Ohsnrver artidd, and that the !'SA did not want Lo be a part of that lypn of "discussion." 
I lwlif•V(! that onn can "acutely feel the pain of nn lunprolr.ctedl gay or les­bian student", and evnn fight for the rights of thosr students as a part of an organization that dons not take a stand on Urn issue of' abortion. without having one's ideals compromised. /\gain. being a fominist and a free spnech advocate Hlu\ r11al issuns al hand in thn WRC dPhate, regardless of right-wing mud slinging} and heing pro-lifu am not mutually ,~xclusive. The life of Lhe unborn is important, but so is the life, and thl' quality of that lifo, of tho born. 
Ms. Antkowaik claims that "without securing th1i fundanrnntal right to life for all humanity. all other rights and frnncloms nrnan nothing." I urge her, and hnr group to continue fighting for lhH right to life of the unborn, it is a crucial fight. but allow the PSA to light for the otlrnr rights and frendoms. Bncuusc without those, apparently m,ianinglnss. rights them isn't much hopn lel't in thn world !'or Lim newly horn. 
Bill Helman, 
Notre Dame '9R, Philosophy and CAPP rormcr mcmher of the Progressive Student Alliance, February 17, I9?9 
¦ LETTERS TO THE EOITOR 
Black History as Human History: Revisiting the Newark Riots 
Fnbruary. as we all know. is Black 1listory Yronth. 1want to makt! n mod­usl contribution lo Black llistory horn -a cnntrihutinn that is both p(irsonal and moral. It is pnrsonal bm:ause in part it recounts my own story. It is moral bncaww it aims to show how thn glwtt.oization of historical facts_ !Pads lo tlw ghcttoization of rPal pPopln. II is nwrPly a tiny part of a much larger story -tho stury of thn glwttoization of Norlh J!'l'sPy. wlwn• I grPw up. It's a story I ncvn learned in school, ancl one I doubt is taught in most schools. Perhaps tlw best thing I could do for Black llistory Month would Im to wll Pvnn thn tini,>st. part ol' it. It. is a strange story, and lwcause I am not black. l havH to tnll it in a roundabout way. 
l11t nm start with the story of my own 
family; Thi:, story of my family is, in nssnncn. tlw story of' a llig-ht. built half on luck and half' on swPat. from opprt\Ssion to prosperity. My family is from what used lo be called "British India." My patPrnal grandl'a-Llwr, who was an Indian nationalist. was !ired on by tlw British in llrn infamous .lalianwala Bagh Massacrn of 1919 (dPpict1HI in the movili 
' 

Why did the riots take place? There are many reasons. hut one is that Diroctor Spina rnsombl!icl thn British of'licers who firnd on my grandfatlwr in 1919: .lust as British rule in India r11st­(!d on racism and forcn, tho almost all­white police forcr. of Nmvark, NJ was racist. and had inllictml its bigotry on /\fritan /\mnricans for docadns prior to the riots. That is a piece of history for­guttnn lo us Nortlrnrnnrs, who likn to pretPnd that all the "rr.ally bad racist vio!enrn" took place in the Jim Crow South. 
But there is a morn specific answer, one Lhat hits home f'or me personally. It is presorved in a tiny passagn in Kr.rnr.r Commission Rnport, written after tlrn riot, and il has hauntnd mo cvnr sinre I rNtd it. The answer is that the State of New .Jersey dncided that a rnsearch hospital had to be built in Newark. and the white town fathers of' Newark decided that it would have to be built in tlrn predominantly black "monkeys." and tlw whole tlrnsaurus of' "nigger" discoursn. Sonrn of t.lwsc. absurdly enough. wnro dirocted at mn -and my skin is lightnr than Mariah Carey's. But. lo pt!opln for whom "An Arab is a niggnr wrnpp1id in II shed," such nicl'lins rwvnr mattm·Pd. (Nor did 
it matter that I'm not an Arab.) Tlrny 
knew who "t.hn nnnmy" was -and 
ttrny "knew" it because Llwy hacl a lim­itlPss capacity to forg-nl how "Llw enemy" got that way. 
All of this canrn full (vicious) 1·ircl11 for nw a l'nw y<iars ago, wlwn I was vis­iting rnlativns in Pakistan. My I:~ ynar­old cousin was asking about lil'n in Anrnrica, and askml, "llow do you dnal with living with black pnophi'?" "What do you nwan'!" I countnrnd. "Wnll," Im said. "wn watch CNN. and black pnople seem mostly to be criminals. Tlrny ar11. arnn't tlwy'!" It hadn't occurrPd to rny brown Muslim f'unclamcntalist cousin that in Anrnrica, peopln who watch CNN rngard p!ioplo like him "mostly as 
criminals." To undnrstand 
racism, you havn to unclPr­
stancl its similarity to a dis­
rntsn: you can cross hordPrs 
... THE SUBURB IN WHICH I LIVED USED ITS ZON-
and contilrnnts to nscapn it . ING LAWS TO KEEP CHY-DWELLERS IN THE CITY hut if' you don't undPrstand 
"Gandhi"J; he nscaped, but lw was 111Prl'ly lucky to avoid tlrn  "WHERE THEY BELONGED." "THEY" BELONGED  its causns and modPs of' transmission, you nPvPr will.  
t'atc ol' Uw liundr('(ls who died  THERE BECAUSE THEY WERE BLACK, AND EVERYONE  ThPn' is a grnat dPal morP  
in that massacre. Mv fathnr's family was drivnn al gunpoint  "KNOWS" THAT THE INFLUX OF BLACK PEOPLE INTO  Lo this story, and parts of' it am still shroudnd in mystery  
from thnir homes in 1947 dur­ A SUBURBAN NEIGHBORHOOD MEANS THAT THAT  for nm. But IPt me lcavP it  

ing the tlrn Partition of India 
NEIGHBORHOOD IS, WELL ... HISTORY.'
and Pakistan; their hornn and 
business w1\rc expropriated in Lhe procnss. But tlrny, too, were lucky to make it out alive; half a million people didn't. 
In 1967. my parnnts Inn tlw chaos of llrn Third World to settle in tbc orderly affluence of' the First World; northern New Jersny, to be precise, just outside of Newark. My parnnts, who am both physicians, got jobs here because in tlrn late l 960s, thurc was an incredible shortage of physicians in New .Jersey, 
, and thus a great need for physicians (any physicians, from anywherel to staff its inner city hospitals. My father worked at Newark's Martland llospital, and later al the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey (UMDNJ) in the Central Ward of Nowark. I was born in 1969, and a few years later, we moved to the suburbs just a few miles outside of NP.wark. My brother was born in 1975, and aftnr he made it out of diapers, my mother was able to return to work, J\ftr.r that, our story became a "happy" one: we had "arrived" in America, and "made it" in the suburbs of New .Jersey. 
But as our happy story was unfold­ing, another much unhappier one was taking place right beside it. ln September 1962, the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights met in Newark to dis­cuss the racial problems in that city, among them police brutality against African Americans in Newark. The Police Director of Newark, Dominick Spina. and its mayor. Hugh Addonizio, rejected these claims out of' hand, and vehemently rejected the idea of a civil­ian review board for the police. No action was taken. In the summer of 1967, six months beforn my parents' arrival in the First World, the Central Ward of Newark erupted in race riots and flames that looked a lot like the Third World. Telling the story in retro­spect, my father remembers two things; "It was the first time I saw snow," he says, "And Newark was still a disaster area when we got there, six months after the riots." Much of it remained a disaster area for the decadns I grew up there. I still remem­ber the sight of the huge, abandoned housing projects that stood vacant and crumbling for 30 years. 
Cnntral Ward of the city. Or more pre­cisely, on top ol' it: bncause the hospital had to be built, the 5,000 black inhabi­tants who were "in the way of that hos­pital" -and thus "blocking progress" -would have to be forced out of their homes by the power of eminent domain. Those who would not agree to leave the condemned area voluntarily were to bn served with eviction notices; their homes were to be demolished without adieu, and they were to be evicted without compensation. It is'a bizarre irony that a hospital dedicated to healing the citizens of Newark was to be built on the ruins of their homes. 
As it turns out. the forced relocation did not take place as planned -partly, perhaps, because of the riots. As a result of the 1968 Newark Agreements, they were averted. (Scholars disagree about whether the Newark Agreements were fairly implemented.) My history intersects with Black History, because my father got a job in that monument to "progress," and we all took its pres­ence for granted. In part with what he uarned there, we were able to move out of the city, to a suburb on the hills where you could see the city, but the city could never get to you. 
I mean that last phrase literally, because the suburb in which I lived used its zoning laws to keep city­dwellers in the city "where they belonged." "They" belonged there because they were black, and everyone "knows" that the influx of black people intp a suburban neighborhood means that that neighborhood is, well ... histo­ry. Such exclusionary policies were for decades semi-officially implemnntcd throughout New .Jersey (for documen­tation, sec David L. Kirp, Our Town: Race, Housing, and the Soul of Suburbia). In many ways, they still are. 
In the meantime, our little suburban world seethed with racial anxiety. Sad but true: as I think about it. the memo­ries all come back to me. There were the loud tirades against "them"; tho conversations that began, 'Tm not a racist, but ... "; the dozens of' tragic­ludicrous incidents involving comments about "fried chicken," "watermelons," thnrn for now. !laving 
rnaclrncl thn nnd of it, how­
evPr, what is its point? 
It is, I think, an illustration of what happens wlrnn we engag,~ in collective amnesia. and why wn nePd sonrnthing like Black llistory Month lo wake us from our amnesiac slumbers. The history I've told is for tho most part not in textbooks: it is burind in arcane reports, archives and policy analyses that are easy to overlook and forget. It took me decades to put it all together, and I still haven't figured it all out. But despite its sketchinnss, it is a story that I refuse to l"orget. 
Black History Month is a moclnst pub­lic rebellion against collectivn amnesia; it reminds us that there are hundrnds, if not thousands, of stories to bn told like the one I just told, involving com­plicated intersections of forces, motives, and circumstances. Stories require storytullers, and storyt1\ll11rs are our witnesses to history. llistory aftnr all, is quite literally, Lhe integra­tion of such stories -the attempt to combine disparate clements into an indivisible whole. 
We often hear lip servicn given to thu ideal of integrating black and non­black J\merica -"If we put the past behind us." But the past is alrnady behind us. The question is whether or not we have the couragn to take a hard look at it, instead of lumbering forward as it if it never happened. Those who want us to "put the past behind us" too often want us "to forgive and forget" before we learn what happened in the first place. But forgivrmnss presuppos­es memory -and some memories won't mix with forgiveness. 
I was going to apologize for the fact that this history doesn't havu a happy ending. But I won't. Sometimes, it's better to tell a truthful story than a happy one. History needs truth more badly than it needs a smiley facn. Thal, I think, is the real lesson of Black 1listory Month -why we ought to take it seriously, and why we can't do with­out it. 
Irfan Khawaja 
Graduate S1udc111, Dept. of Philosophy Feb. l0, I 999 


Thursday, February 18, I999 ------------------OTHE page 14
BSERVER 




By PETER RICHARDSON Scene Writer 
l'icturns were br-ing snapped left and right, 1111ing the JACC with the crackle of a thousand flashes of families and friends capturing mom­orif's of last year's .Junior parnnt's Wf'ekend. 
For Brian Fremeau. a seniur i.n Carroll Hall, the most memorable experience of' Junior Parent's Weekend, or "JPW," was this moment. 
"Tim fact that you knPw you could look at thnsf' pictures and identify all the people in them was rnally neat. And through JPW, they lmcame someone Plse, beyond the person you have a class with," said Frerneau. 
fremcau. along with many other juniors, identified JPW as an invaluable experience of his time lmro at Notrn Dame, not only bPcausB of what he got Lo share with his parents, but also bccausn of what he learned about his friends. 
"Getting to nrnet all of your friends' parents reallv made them [friends] more rounded and real.:, he said. 
Junior Parent's Weekend is a once a year event whm·c parents of juniors at Notn~ Dame are invited to participate in an entire weekend of events geared at bringing parents into the "world" of Notre Dame. 
"You get tn combine your family at ND with your family at home," said Amy Seamon. vice­chair of this year's JPW committee. 
The emphasis is on students showing their parents what their life lwre is like in a more thorough fashion lhat what could be gathered through a phone conversation or by e-mail. This year's llwme of' "Celobrat1~ Good Times" reveals somP of lhal aim -JPW isn'l just show and tflll. it's also about sharing. 
This y<~ar's activili<~s get started on Friday night with a "Dancing Through the Decades Gala" at thn Joyr,n CC'nter, including live music and food. On Saturday, parents are invited to collegiate workshops sponsored by the college of Arts and Letters, Business Administration, Architecture. Scicnrn and Engineering. Parents attend workshops to learn about the academic atrnosplrnre at 1\lotrn Dame and can participate 
in a continental breakfast hosted by the <lean 
of their son or daughter's department. Professors are also prosent at these work-
Juniors enjoy dinner with their parents at last year's JPW Dinner, annually held on Saturday of Junior Parent's Weekend. 
shops. Fremeau, a film major, found that the work­shops were a key part of the weekend. 
"It gave my parents a chanr,e to find out more about my professors, the things I do here, and my plans for graduate school and beyond," he said. 
The collegiate workshops can work as a sort of reassurance for parents.as well as a chance for professors to speak with parents about the viability of' careers that aren't always so secure. 
"If I was in ongineering, my future would be pretty definite. But in mm, tlrnre's always a bit of a question ...[with the workshops! I r,ould have my parents reassured by professors," said Fremeau. 
Lunchi>ons hosted by all the resid1mce halls follow the collegiate workshops. These are some of the most important and memorable times of .TPW as paronts get a chance to meet their children's friends and roommates. "This is really the time a conm~ction is made," said Seamon. 
Saturday evening, all .JPW attendees are invited to mass at the Joyr,e arnna. Directly fol­lowing the mass is the "Let's Go to the Movies" dinner at the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. Festivities includt~ live 1rntertainmcnt an address by University President Father Edward 
A. Malloy. 
The culmination of th~~ weekend's events is the "World is Our Stage·• brunch on Sunday morning. ThP brunch is highlighter! by an address from a special guest speaker who will talk about the Notre Dame tradition of family. 
All these events require serious plannin·g ­as one can imagine. The Junior Parnnts Executive Committfle, composed of a board of' 17 students, hogan work on this week's .JPW at the end of their sophomore year. And no, the studr-nts are not paid for thflir work. 
"This is a great gift we can give to our par­nnts. We can invite them to come experience ND with us," Seamon said. 
The board is under supervision of advisor Peggy Natusko. They arc given a budget of morn~y oach year. Notre Dame Food Services additionally assisls with much of tho catering and preparation, anrt Michelangelo's helps decorate of the events. 
The Observer/Michelle Keefe 

Junior Parent's Weekend Schedule of Events: 
Friday: 
9am.-7pm: The Eck Visitor's Center is open to students and parents. 9am--10pm: The new Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore in the Eck Center opens to students and parents. • Campus Tours throughout the day. 8pm: Black Coffee House held at Lafortune Student Center. 
9pm.-1 am: "Dancing Through the Decades" Gala at the Joyce Center. 
Saturday: 
9am-5pm: Eck Visitor's Center open to students and parents. 9am--10pm: The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore open for parents and students. 9:30am.-l 2pm: College Workshops 10:30 &11 :30am: Snite Museum of Art tours 12pm.-2pm: Classic Notre Dame Films 12:30pm--2pm: Residence Hall Luncheons 
1pm & 3:30 pm: "Shenanigans" Concert 5:30 pm: Mass at the Joyce Center 
7... 10 pm "Lets go the Movies" Dinner at the Joyce Center. 
Sunday: 
10am.-12pm: "All The World's Our Stage" Brunch at the Joyce Center 11am.-1 0pm: The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore open. 12pm--5pm: Eck Visitor's Center open. 
I• I I I I I, I (II, It I I I• 1 f I I I 
1 


• 
O 
THE 

page 15 ---------------Thursday. February 18, 1999
BSERVER 


c,,,,,,,,,,,, ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, 
IBIIIII Pltllll'I Ifllkllld ... 

Don't Weigh Your Self-Esteem, It's What's Inside That Counts 
Courtesy of the University Counselin~ Center 
Did you notice all of the ads for Weight Watchers, Jenny Craig and Slim Fast after the holidays'? The weight loss industry makes millions each year as peo11le try to lose weight. Some students get stuck in a cycle of' gaining and losing weight. usually trying to tempt fate and find a "quick and easy" solution to weight loss instead of what physicians, exercise physiologists and nutritionists toll us ­eat moderately aud exercise. For others, tlrnir relationship with food bocomes a cycle of feeling in and out of control with food rnsulting in physical, emotional and relational consoqucmces. 
The week of February 21-28 is designated as National Eating Disorders Awareness Week across the country. The goal of this w11rik is to try and mlurntn in an effort aimod at awareness, prevention and support. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Counseling Centers arc excited to be bringing a theatre troupe to both campuses from Indianapolis. 
The theatre troupe, A.C.T. OUT Ensemble, will prnsent "BODY LOATHING....BODY LOVE,"a show that explores the many lives affect1~d by eating disorders. Through scenes, monologues and movement pieces they will focus on prcvontion and oducation and address the issues, ff'nlings and circumstances behind anorexia, bulimia and binge eating disorders. The troupe of male and fomale actors gear this production to both men and women. ages 12 and older, and the entire ND and SMC communities are invited to attend either porfor­mance. Two performances will be held on Sunday, February 21, one at 2:00 p.m. at the Hesburgh Library Auditorium and the other at 6:00 p.m. at the Moreau Center/Little Thr.atre on Saint Mary's campus. We hope you will mark this date on your calendar and plan to attend. 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students who are first beginning to struggle with eating disorders usually find it very difficult to get past their feelings of shame so they can reach out and seek hr.Ip. If you find that you are ov1\rly preoccupied with dieting, your appearance, exercise, or your relationship with food, please keep in mind that you are not alone! Studies report. that an increasing number of college students, both male and fomale, struggle with tlrnsP issu11s. Como to one of the performances mentioned above and schedule an assessment with a coun­selor to find out how you can increase your self-esteem and change your relation­ship with food. 
Most of the time, however, we at the Counseling Center. first talk with the roommate(s), teammatels). coach, rector, It!\., parent. or boyfriend/girlfriend who is concerned about someone else's eating. Ttwre are no magic solutions or ways to confront someone with your concern that guarantee understanding or acceptance. You may be worried about the person, but struggling not to label or judge. You do not want to embarmss the person, but you feel a sensn of responsi­bility because you feel this individual is not taking good cam of' lrnr/hirnself. Try not to allow your concern to result in extremes (e.g. avoiding talking about it at all vs. trying to take charge of the person's problem in an effort to be "ovPrly helpful"). Resist your temptation to st.art a "witch-hunt" and arm yourself' with a symptom checklist to "diagnose" someone in a way that would end up feeling intrusive or hurtful. We hope that instead you would emphasize that resources are available to help students struggling with eating concerns both on and off. campus. 
Some tips to keep in mind if you are concerned about someone's eating bt'hav­ior and want to discuss this with her/him are: 
• 
Consider when and where you would talk to the person. Pick a quiet, ron­lidential place and select a time that makes sense bas<\d on academic, athletic and personal pressures and timclincs. 

• 
Be as specific and descriptive as possible about the behaviors that cause you concern. Present the facts in a matter-of-fact way and avoid generaliza­tions, opinions or diagnoses. 

• 
Focus on your re1ationship with this person and how her/his behavior has made you feel (e.g. sad, hurt, wonied, angry. concerned, etc.). 

• 
Connect concerns you may have about their mood, eating. sleeping, change in activity, and/or avoidance of others with their •~iiting beha\·ior. 

• 
Seek assistance from residence hall st1tl'f members or counsC'ling centl'r staff if the individual is suicidal. vomiting blood. hallucinating. withdrawn and missing classes consist<>ntly or unable to stoJl crying. 


• 
Suggest that she/he seek help and be willing to assist in that effort by going with them to the counseling c<>ntcr (ND:6:H-7H6; SMC:284-4565). health center (631-7497) or the 11.0.P.E. (Healthy Options for Problem Eatersl Program at Memorial Hospital (284-3153) for an assessment. 

• 
Don't try to control the person by forcing Uwm to eat, monitoring their eating or withdrawing your love and supporl if tlwy are not rr~ady or willing to St'ek hnlp. 


BODY LOATHING....BODY LOVE 
Sunday, F~brnary 21, 1999 
2 PM -Washington Hall. University of Notre Dame 
5 PM -Moreau Center/Little Theatre, St. Mary's College 
The intent of this series of artides is not to provide counseling but to prrwide information about a variety ofmental health topics. To seek help with your indi­vidual concerns. please contact the University Counseling Center at 631-7336 to schedule an 
.. 
.----­
page 16 The Observer• SPORTS Thursday, February 18, 1999 
¦ MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Yankeeslookforrepeatseason 
Associated Press 

TAMPA 
One by one they unpacked their gear for Urn start of a new season. 
Time for the rhampions to put the record-smashing year behind and look to th<' task ahead. 
In canH~ J\ndy Pettitte. then Chuck Knoblaurh. ~early four months of ct'IPbration had come to an Pnd. 
As basl'ball players started to report to spring training Wnlncsdav. a dav ahead of the first nfficfal woi.-kouts, all but otw of tlrn NPW York YankfleS wen' bark, intent on winning the World SPries for tlw third time in t'onr Yf)ars. 
"You've got to win. That's the bottom line." shortstop 0erek .Inter said. 
Nmv York went 125-50, set­ting an AL record for rogular­season wins {114) and a major league r11cord for combined vic­toril's in 1hr regular and post­snason. They stnamrollcd San Diego in a World Series sweep, thrn brought back evf'ryonc except Tim Haines. 
"Our focus is to get back to the World Series and win it again." said Jeter, who a day earlier had won a $5 million salarv in arbitration. "lt doesn't makt~ a difforence how many ganws we win. We want to be tlw champions." 
Spring training officially starts Thursday. tlrn firsl day pitchers, catchers and injurt>d playPrs can work out und11r the supnrvision of team porsonnel. 
While sonrn players reported 
Wednesday to the clubhouse at 
Legends Field, otbers -Jeter 
among them -worked out at 
the club's nearby minor-league 
romplex. 

Some of the Yankees alreadv 
have been working out for sev·­
eral weeks. No sign of compla­
cency here. 

"I don't see that being a prob­
lem," catcher Joe Girardi said. 
"You really don't have to worrv 
about any guys in this club·­
house." 

Outfielder Darryl Strawberry, 
who missed the postseason fol-lowing colon cancer surgery. feels good about his progress and is hopeful of being with the team on opening day. 

"I don't have any concerns about my health or my ability to play. That's not a concern at all," Strawberry said. "I feel great." 
Just in case Strawberry won't be ready, the Yankees took him off the 40-man roster in December, which would shield his salary from the luxury tax if he's in the minors. 
"l came down here to prove ­to myself that there's a lot of baseball left," Strawberry said. "This is gravy for me. It's all about having fun. After what I've been through, what can I expect but to have fun?" 
Strawberry, who receives chemotherapy treatment once a week, said his weight is back up to 222 pounds. If he /doesn't wind up fitting into the Yankees' plans, he's confident he'll play somewhere in the majors in 1999. 
'Tm lucky. Most people have a hard time with chemo. It's not an easy thing to get by," he said, adding that he hasn't noticed any side effects from treatments that likely will con­tinue until at least May. 
Jeter, who had been offered $3.2 million by the Yankees, said his teammates were sup­portive both before and after the hearing. 
¦ MAJORLEAGUE BASEBALL 
Malone makes big trades for Dodgers 
Asso,;iate<l: Press 
LOS ANGELES 
Kevin Malone spent tho off­
season retooling the Los 
Angeles Dodgers with a cou­
ple of hig trades and the com­
mitment of millions of dollars 
to players -mostly to Kevin 
Brown. 

Now, the general manager 
says, the real fun begins. 
"The organization was in a 
place where we needed to 
make a lot of changes," he 
said. "The last five months. 
there's been a lot ol' hard 
work. Right now, the light at 
the end of the tunnel is grow­
ing largor and larger. Wn'll 
soon bo involved in actual 
baseball." 

Pitchers and catchers 
report Thursday to Vero 
Beach, Fla., for perhaps the 
final spring training at 
Dodgertowu, with tho rest of 
the team due Feb. 24. The 
exhibiti<rn schedule opens 
March 5. 

"My sanctuary is the game 
itself," Malone said. "I was 
one of those guys who always 
loved to practice because I 
loved the game. I'm getting 
excited, knowing that the 
beginning of the season and 
the coming together of what I 
believe is a championship 
club is getting closer. 
"We've positioned ourself 
on paper to be a champi­
onship club. Now, we've got 
to work real hard and get it . ~one on the field." 
The new faces will be plen­
tiful, headed by manager 
Davey Johnson, hired by 
Malone in October. No team 
of Johnson's has ever fin­
ished lower than second 
pface. 

·· 1n addition, there's Brown, a 33-year~old right~hander who signed a record $105 ·miUion, seven-year contract to ~pchor the starting rota­tion,:;a deal that caused many 
major league owners to lam• baste Rupert Murdoch, head of th~i Dodgers' new owner, Fox Entertainment Group Inc. 

Other new faces include catcher Todd Hundloy, center fielder Devon White, and relievers Alan Mills, Mel Hojas and Greg Cadaret. 
Gone arc catchers Charles Johnson and Tom Prince, in fie] der-outfielder Bobby Bonilla, relievers Mark Guthrie and Scott Hadinsky, and outfielder Hoger Cedeno. 
And that doesn't oven count the in-season transformation last year, which included the departure of' catcher Mike Piazza and the arrival of out­fielder Gary Sheffield. 
In all, just 17 players remain from the 40 on the roster at the start of spring training a year ago. Malone thinks tho ofrseason moves have made the Dodgers, who were 83-79 in 1998, World Series title contenders. 
"I feel very good about this team, I'm exdted," he said. "I'm energized by the poten­tial. What we·ve got to do is make sure our focus is clear, come together and learn, get to know each otlrnr, get on the same page as soon as possibl0." 
More d11als could comn. There are six legitimate con­tenders for five berths in the starting rotation: Brown. Chan Ho Park, Darren Dreifort, Ismael Valdes, Dave Mikki and Carlos Perez ­the only left-hander. 
And there arc two seasoned 
shortstops:  Mark  
Grudzielanek  and  Jose  
Vizcaino.  

"I believe competition is healthy," Malone said. "We have a surplus as far as start­ing pitchers and middle infielders is concerned. To me, that's a strength. We'll see how things progress in spring training." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office. 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edir all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
•  NOTICES  IILOST&FOUNDI  BOYS & GIRLS CLUB NEEDS VOLUNTEER B-BALL COACHES! Season runs 3-99 to 5-7-99  FLORIDA SPRING BREAK SANDPIPER-BEACON BEACH RESORT PANAMA CITY BEACH  FOR SALE -DUPLEX North Shore Triangle (walking dis-lance to Notre Dame)  Happy 22nd Birthday to Elizabeth Guidi! May North Dining Hall serve profuse amounts of pork in your  
Spring Break Bahamas Party  Missing ... If anyone has found a  Call 232·2048  FLORIDA FROM $159 PER PER·  132 Marquette Blvd,  honour.  
Cruise!5Nights S279!Includes  Superman Necklace, please return  for more info  SON 3 POOLS 1 INDOOR  Each unit has 2 bedrooms,  
Meals & Free Parties!Awesome Beaches,Nightlife1Departs From  to 317 Fisher. Reward  FOR RENT  POOULAZY RIVER RIDE HUGE BEACHSIDE HOTTUB SUITES UP  one full bath, living room with fireplace.  Diane and Amanda• ready to go out on 3 dollars? We can do it.  
Florida•Cancun &  LOST: Notre Dame Class Ring.  TO 10 PEOPLE FREE INFO 1-800·  Well maintained!!! Showings by  
Jamaica S399'  Description: Aquamarine stone with  WALK TO SCHOOL  488-882  appointment only,  7 days till california.  
springbreaktravel.com  name engraved on the inside of the  2-6 BEDROOM STARTING $185  CALL: Pam DeCola, Cressy &  
1 ·800-678-6386  ring. lnitials·PML. Call 273-9813.  MONTH/PERSON 232-2595  Room $275/mo in large house 2  Everett Realty at  chocolate for everyone.  

miles from ND. 246·0704  288-1739 or 235-3993.  
Spring Break Panama City $129!Boardwalk Room w/Kitchen Next To Clubs!7 Parties-Free  Lost: Spiderman Folder and assign­ment notebook, If found please call 0992.  NICE HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND 8.6.4,3,BEDROOM 2773097  FOR SALE  PERSONALII  except you, Allen. I miss New Orleans.  
Drinks!Daytona $149!South Beach  NEW Rates Phone Cards  Need a job? Student Activities is  
$129!Cocoa Beach $149!  WANTED  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  282 min.$20 call 258·4805  accepting applications for Sound  
sprmgbreaktravel.com  219·291-7153  Techs & Building Set Up Crew.  days and counting.  

1-800-678-6386  CRUISE SHIP EMPLOYMENT  

GET THE HECK OUT Of HERE! Mexico.the Caribbean or Jamaica $250 r/t.Other worldwide destina­lions cheap. Book tickets on line www.airtech.com or (212)219-7000 
How Green is Green? Work in Ireland on a Student Work Abroad Program and find out! Call 1 ·888-Council and ask forTom. 
CANCUN, BAHAMAS PANAMA CITY Get FREE PARTIES with USA Spring Break! Call 1 ·888· 777 -464 2 to book your trip today! 

Workers earn up to $2,000+/month (wltips & bene• lits)World Travel!Land-Tour jobs up to $5,000-$7,000/summer.Ask us how! 
517·336-4235 Ext.C55842 
SUMMER CAMP JOBS LAND/WATER SPORTS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS/ 
LAKE PLACID 
1-800-786-8373 
Local Attorney/CPA looking for undergraduate/graduate to work part-time with flexible hours. Interested persons should call 
273·2118 to set up an interview. 
5 & 6 BDRM HOMES. 199912000, SUMMER OR NOW.NEAR CAM­
PUS.FURN.GILLIS PROPER· 
TIES.2726551 
HOUSE OR ROOMS AVAIL NOW.272-6551 
House for Rent. Two Blocks from campus. Available in June for Summer. August for fall. Dishwasher, Washer/Dryer, full basement, large backyard, and off street parking. MONITORED SECURITY SYSTEM INCLUDED'! KITCHEN BEING REMODELED THIS SPRING! CAIi 289-4712 

Beautiful brass bed.queen size.with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe frame.New.never used.still in plas­tic.$235 219-862-2082. 
laptop pc computer ... ethernet, cd rom and floppy drive. pentium processor. modem. Perfect for writ• ing papers and web access from your room or anywhere. 2 yrs old. $550. call matt @273-9795. 
guitar effects processor. Boss ME· 8; heralded as best midpriced effects board. chorus, dist, rev, wha, harmonizer, and many other effects. great cond w/ case. $200. call matt at 273-9795 

ok girls ... crossin' the border '99 two  


Apply at 315 Lafortune.  
stina and nell...breakin' the law but  
•• ATTENTION LESBIAN. GAY,  bad Is a relative terrn.  
BISEXUAL AND QUESTIONING  
STUDENTS "  Original student  hey ... l love my little red dog!  
group will hOld IMPORTANT gener•  
al meeting TONIGHT 2/18  MB ­ happy 21st on Sat from the  
Call info line for details  "Dons of Zahm."  
236·9661.  
II -MAN. Where you at? Right here,  
hey six! You guys are totally rad.  right here. Over there. Over there.  
Movies!!!!!!  
hahahahaha.  SpoonbalLcatch the fever.  
Don't forget the "chicken"II  
Bruinball...catch the flu.  

alien· I can't believe you ditched me. No beads for you. In your Well, this has been a pretty bad words, "boo." Never say I didn't give day... if someone wants to kick my you anything. dog while they're at iL 
I I I Ii I, I, , If I I,,, i,,,, , , , 
Thursday, r:ebruary 18, 1999 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Page 17 
... 
student union 
HAPPENINii§ 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 
Movie: A Bug's Life. 02/18. Thursday. Cushing Auditorium. 1030PM. Tickets: $2. 02/19. Friday. Cushing Auditorium. 0800PM & 1030PM. 02/20. Saturday. Cushing Auditorium. 0800PM & 1030PM. 
Acousticafe. 02/18. Thursday. LaFortune Huddle. 0900PM-1200AM. 
SLF: Raymond Feist Workshop. 02/18. Thursday. Montgomery Theatre. 1000AM. Student Readers. 02/18. Thursday. Washington Hall. 0800PM. Annie Finch Workshop. 02/19. Friday. New Bookstore. 0200PM. Annie Finch. 02/19. Friday. Washington Hall. 0800PM. 
CCC (CLUB COORDINATION COUNCIL] 
Blak Coffee House. 02/19. Friday. NAACP: Financial Aid Workshop. 02/24. Wednesday. February is Black History Month. 
§TL/DENT GDI/ERNMENT 
Saferide. 631-9888.  
02/18.  Thursday.  Where the Action Is.  1000PM-0200AM.  
02/19.  Friday.  Where the Action Is.  1 000PM-0300AM.  
02120.  Saturday.  Where the Action Is.  10OOPM-0300AM.  

Kellogg Institute: Current Affairs Round Table: Venezuela's Watershed Election. 02/18. Thursday. C-103 HCIS. 1230PM. 
Academic Pride Week: American Studies Psych, Anthro. 02/22. Monday. SDH. 1230PM-0130PM. 
Academic Pride Week: Econ, Govt, and lnt'I Studies, East Asian Languages and Literature, German and Russian Languages and Literature. 02/23. Tueday. SDH. 1210PM-0110PM. 
Academic Pride Week: Accountancy, Management and Administrative Science. 02/24. Monday. SDH. 1230PM-0130PM. 
Kellogg Institute Alma Guiller-moprieto: "The Samba Lecture". 02/25. Wednesday. C-103 HCIS. 0700PM. Co-sponsored with LAASP. 
Gender Relations Week. 02/22-02/26. 
CLA!i!i DF i!DDO 
Junior Week: Bowling. 02/22 Monday. Beacon Bowl. Fazoli's Dinner. 02/24. Wednesday. Brought to campus. Class Prayer Service. 02/25. Thursday. 
MISCELLANEDlJ!i/CAMPlJS-WIDE 
JPW. 02/19. Friday. 02/20. Saturday. 02/21. Sunday. 
Dept. of Music: NO Jazz Band. 02/20. Saturday. Washington Hall. 0230PM. 
Dept. of Music: ND Concert Band. 02/23. Tuesday. JACC. 0700PM. 
11•

* * 

......
Can be used with invisible tape as tattoos. 

[Submissions for next week©s tattoos can be sent via campus mail to SUB, 201 LaFortune) 
89000000008808G0008000000G00808800GG00008800GG000088008GOOOO 


¦ ¦

x-ray roger Jimmy 
•
•

• •
•
• 


.. The Alumni-Senior Club 
Get our Compact Discs at Orbit and Musicland 
For bookings call 317.403.5690 or visit our website at www.x-rayrogerjimmy.com 




Friday, February 19th 
. at 



Miami's Wally Szczerbiak was held to only 18 points as the Redhawks lost to the Toledo Rockets, 66-63. 
Anderson scored a career-high 23 points last month when Florida State lost 98-73 at Duke. 
Florida State's Ron Hale, who came into the game leading all scorers in ACC play, was held to eight points. He managed only six in the earlier game against Duke. 
Toledo 66, No. 25 Miami of Ohio 63 
Justin Hall scored 17 points and Toledo used a smothering regular season, but dropped out following losses to Xavier and Wisconsin-Green Bay. 

The team struggled early in the season after point guard Rob Mestas went down with a knee injury. With Estas back, the RodHawks had won seven straight and 12 of 13. 
But it was Toledo's outside shooting that carried the Rockets, who were 6-of-14 on 3-pointers. 
Toledo had one its best halves of the season in the first 20 min-to claim the title outright. 
After the game, the sellout crowd -which included Auburn graduate Bo Jackson and Gov. Don Siegelman -stormed the court as the Tigers put on SEC Championship T-shirl'i. The play­ers then cut down the nets. 
Bryant Smith, 01m or two seniors honored bdore the game, seorcd 14 points for Auburn. llis layup with 9:06 to play in the first half gavP him I ,000 points for his earner. 


¦ NBA 
Anderson keeps Magic streak alive at home 
Associa1cd Press 
OHi.ANDO 

Tlw Orlando Magir rnmairwd 1rnlwatP11 al home W1•.rl1rnsclay night, gntting 2f> points l'rom Ni1'.k /\ndl'rson anrl holding (hP Washington Wi:1ards to :~4 sncond-half points in a 'Jf>-8:, virtory. 
Tltn ;\tlanLic Division leaders improved to (i-2. induding a 4-0 mark al Orlando Arona wlmrn thny won again dospitn shooting hiss than 42 rm·rent f'rom Urn lirld. 
With All-Star Penny llardaway on tlrn bench. the Magic sewed up tlw victory by 01wning the fourth quarter with a 24-8 run led by /\mlnrson and backup point guarct llarmll Armstrong. 
Orlando shut down Wnshingl011 's Mitch Hichmond in tlw !Wcond half and held the Wizards lo just 14 points in t.lw third quart<ir and 20 in Urn fourth. 
Mich,wl Doi Pac scored I (1 points. whiln Armstrong and Bo Outlaw (~ach finished with 14 for tlw Magic. Outlaw and 11 orar.11 {; rn n t both had I ·1 rnbounrls. 
Orw night after missing 1 I or 15 shnls in a I~-point loss to Ch\vr•land. llardaway contin­ued to struggln for tlrn Magic. lie did nol play in th<~ fourth quarh\r, finishing 2-of-11 from tlw linld for four points in 31 minutns. 
. l11wan l!oward led 
Washinglon with 15 points 
and IO rebounds. Bod 
Strickland had 14 points and 
IO assists. but also turned the 
hall 11v11r night times. 
Bichmoncl was limited to 13 points -two in the second half -on 5-for-17 shooting. 
The Wizards led 51-45 bol'orn poor shooting and ball­handling caught up with thtm1 in the th ire! and fourth quar­
lr.rs. 

Hichmond missed his first seven shots in tlrn sncond half and didn't score until just 2:50 rc•mairn'!d. Meanwhile. Strickland committed five of Washinglon's 11 third-quarllu turnovers. 
Timherwolves 116, Hoekcts 
102 
Stcphon Marbury scored a earner-high 40 points to go with 12 assists and the Minrrnsota Timberwolves played a near-nawlcss second half to beat the sluggish Houston Rockets 116-102 Thursday night. 
Marbury shot I6-for-24, and Kovin Garnett had 23 points, nirrn assists and nine n~bounds. 
The victory gave the Wolves 15-21 their besl start since joining the lea.gun in 1989 and moved them into a second­place tie with llouston in the Midwcsl Division, one game behind Utah. 
Oth,dla llarrington, in the starting lineup because of Charles Barkley's knee injury, led ilrn Hockets with 23 points. Scottie Pippen had 12. but only thren after halftime as Minrrnsota dominatnd the final two quarters by shooting 64 porcent. committing only two turnovers and outrebounding the Hor.kets 21-3. 
Minnesota has won four of its last five and extended its [ranch ise-record regular-sea­son home winning streak to nine games. including all three lhis season. 
Hakeem Olajuwon scored 14 points but looked flxhausted as the Hockets played ono night al'tN beating Phoenix al home. 
llouslon led 47-45 at half­time, but Urn Wolves outscornd the Hockcts 33-20 in the third quarter to take control. They tinished the periorl on a 20-9 run. holding the Rockets to _just one basket in a 5::i2 strntch. 
The game was tied 58-all when Harrington converted a three-point play with 6: 57 left in the third. Minnesota scored the next six points. and Marbury scored eight of 10 points for the Wolves later in the run as they built their biggest lead of the game to that point, 76-63 with 1:53 left. in the third. 
Aftor losing at Golden State on Mondav. the Wolves started lethargically and fell behind 39-31 in the second quarter when Michael Dickerson capped a quick 6-0 surge for Jlouston. The Wolves took a timeout with 6:05 left before halftime, and Garnett screamed at his teammates heading to the bench, saying "Yo, this is how we lost the last game, man." That seemed to spark the Wolves. 
Minnesota scored the next six points and held the Rockets to just one morn bas­ket the rest of the quarter before pulling away in the third. 



Dynamic, outgoing, and creative graduates are needed to help provided resources and educational opportunities for the children of Newark, N.J. 
Kids Corperation is a non-profit organization which operates educational programs and provides resources for the inner city children of Newark, N.J. Traditionally, we have always worked closely with the University of Notre Dame, employing an average of 10-15 undergraduate students each summer in our eight-week educa­tional program. We are now looking for Notre Dame graduates to help develop and expand our programs. 
Some of the responsibities are, but are not limited to, the following: 
• 
Working with existing corperate sponsors • Identifying and utilizing new resources in and identifying new ones the Newark community 

• 
Working with local health care providers to • Recruiting over 200 college students from increase the medical care that our children across the nation to work in our summer receive progam 


• Create and implement new programs for • Assist in the supervision of the summa col­the children in the schools that we work lege staff and the operations of our nature with camp 
• 
This can best be described as a cross between a corporate-type position and a service opportunity, with an annual salary in the low-middle $20,000 and room and board being provided at out nature camp. If you are interested, please drop of resumes at the Career Services Office on February 22nd & 23rd. We will contact you for an interview in late February. 


¦ 
• t , , • , t \ l • • • ·. 'I ' ·• lo, \ \ ,_ ' • • • ' t ' • \ l "i, I . . , 'I ~ I ~ , .\ ~ \ ' \ ~ • ~ \ . ' ' 
page 20 The Observer• SPORTS Thursday, February 18, 1999 
¦ OLYMPICS 
Organizers gamble with slot machines for revenue 
-1 
Associated Press 
SYDNEY 

Slot machines may take thP pla1.:e of disillusioned sponsors to help Sydney Olympics orga­nizers fill a multimillion-dollar budget gap. 
Battling a fall in corporate faith because of the widespread bribery scandal, the Sydney Organizing Committee for the Olympic Games has revived the idea of using gambling to reach its revem1e target. 
Sydney organizers are more than $130 million short of their goal of $568 million in sponsor­ships, part of an overall budget of$17 billion 
And while SOCOG president Michael Knight said Tuesday that "You ran run a pretty fan­lastk Olympic Games" on what his group has raised. he added: "You can do even better if you ran gel another couple of hun­dred million." 
"The first thing we want to do is go uut and look positively and aggressively for that money," Knight said. "If we don't (find it) we'll make the necessary adjustments." 
So. with the Olympir.s' lead­ing sponsors calling for broad reforms to retain their financial commitment to the games, SOCOG is looking again at legal gambling to help plug the gaps. 
John Moore, the marketing official in charge of finding the missing millions for SOCOG, has floated the idea of slot machines installed in clubs with a percentage of profits going to the Olympic organiz­ers. 
Moore said anv such link 

between gambling and the 
games would have to carefully 
walk the line between tackiness 
and valid fundraising tech­
nique. 
"We don't want Olympic rings on {the machines)," Moore told 
QUICK CAB 
233-6000 
"Ride Safe, Save Money!!!" 
• ND11,..Downtown Area 
One Person $5, More than I, $1 each 
• ND11,..South Bend Restaurants 
One Person $5, More than I, $2 each 
c.:ome and See· Why The Lights Are Always On! 
§~lmooll @ifMllim~~ 
Open House 
Friday,. Feb. 19, 1999 3:30-6:00 PM Bond Ball 
.. 
Exhibition ofStudent & Faculty Work ­
The Australian newspaper Wednesday. "The various prod­ucts that fit into recreational gambling, we've had a look at." 
In October, Knight said there was a "fine line here between how you raise revenue and how you also protect the integrity of the games." 
Slot machines were raised as one possibility then and received guarded support from IOC executive board member Jacques Rogge. 
Rogge said gambling on the games was not allowed but thaL sports in many countries were funded by lotteries and that was valid. 
The New South Wales state opposition, engaged in a pre­election battle against the gov­
ernment,  seized  on  the  
rehashed idea.  
''I'm  calling  on  them  to  

announce whether or not this is a serious proposal or whether, as it seems, it's a suggestion from somebody who knows lit­tle about gaming," opposition gaming spokesman Richard Bull said. 
Slot machines in clubs and bars earn about $22,100, according to government fig­ures. It would take 6,000 machines sending all their profits to SOCOG to make up the shortfall. 
SOCOG is expected to name two new sponsors after its monthly board meeting Thursday -some rare good news for an Olympic communi­ty overwhelmed in recent months by the scandal centered on Salt Lake City's successful bid for the 2002 Winter Games. 
Knight rejected criticism of SOCOG's budget structure by International Olympic Committee marketing director Michael Payne and said he had no plans to back off a $65 mil­lion profit-sharing deal with the Australian Olympic Committee. half its revenue gap.. Michael Payne would have had 
Payne was Tuesday that Knight said the deal was enough on his plate with IOC SOCOG should consider plow­done and Payne should accept problems without giving ing the profit back into thP that. Sydney gratuitous advice," tho budget, automatically filling "I would have thought that SOCOG offidal said. 


~ 


)tNow
Italian/Sicilian 
Dining c:::J OPEN 
South Bend's newest Italian Restaurant Great family owned tradition Italian specialties made to order 
Fresh Prepared Pasta dinners Veal, Chicken and Seafood Deep Dish Chicago Style Pizza Traditional Thin Crust Pizza Fine beverage selection 
Family Style Dinners for parties of 10 or more Dial Phone Appetit, 67 4-0900 Category 8466 for more info. Located Downtown South Bend 235 S. Michigan St. 233-1000 


ARE YOU PREPARED FOR THE 
JOB MARKET? 
The COBA Diversity Program and the Notre Dame Chapter of the NAACP present: 
DON DYER, PARTNER PRICEWATERHOUSE COOPERS 
Topics Success 1n Corporate America Diversity in the Workplace 
Thursday, February 25th 4:00 -5:30 pm COBA 160 
A part of Black History Month '99 "A Celebration of Achievement" 
-

... 
Notre Dame Encounter Retreat #56 (March 26-28) Sign-up 
Monday-Friday, February 15-19 103 Hesburgh Library 
Sophomore Class Retreat 
Friday-Saturday, February 19-20 St. Joe Hall 
Junior Parents Weekend Mass 
Saturday, February 20, 5:30 p.m. Joyce Center 
Campus Bible Study 
Tuesday, February 23, 7:00-8:30 pm Badin Hall Chapel 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
Wednesday, February 24 10:00-10:30 Walsh Chapel, Music led by the Celebration Choir, rehearsals before the Prayer Service at 8:30 p.m. 
Retreat for Ministers in the Basilica Topic: "Ministry in the Church" 
Saturday, February 27 
9:30 a.m.-12:30 p.m. Registration in the Basilica Office, Earth Science Building. Attention lectors, ushers, coordinators, eucharistic ministers, servers, and choir members. You are all invited to participate in this mini-retreat. Our principal speaker will be Beverly Rieger, Director of Liturgy, Fort Wayne-South Bend Diocese. An optional tour of the Basilica by Father Rocca following. If you plan on attending, contact Steve Camilleri at 287-5259 or Camilleri.4@nd.edu 
FIRST SUNDAY OF LENT 
Weekend Preslders at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart Saturday, February 20 Mass 
5:00 p.m. Rev. Michael McCarthy, S.J. 
Sunday, February 21 Mass 
10:00 a.m.Rev. Wilson Miscamble C.S.C. 
11:45 a.m.Rev. Peter Rocca, C.S.C. 
Sunday Lenten Vespers 
7:45 p.m. Rev. Peter Rocca, S.J. 
Scripture Readings 
1st Reading  Genesis  2:7-9;  3:-7  
2nd Reading  Romans  5:12-19  
Gospel  Matthew  4: 1-11  

On the Road, But Not Home Yet 
---Katie Pytlak and Frank Santoni, CM '98-'99 Interns 
I frequently find myself explaining to friends and relatives how I have chosen to spend my year after graduation. My answer of "Campus Ministry Intern" receives some raised eyebrows (and given our current national situation, a few chuckles). The question then often follows, "What exactly do you do?" and "What do you then plan to do with your life?" 
My decision to stay here at Notre Dame for another year was not an easy one. 1knew that I wanted to spend some time doing service, to somehow be able to share my experi­ences and gifts to uplift others. I thought I was ready to enter into the "real world," life away from the Golden Dome. Returning to Notre Dame meant being in the same place, but now a place so different, with close friends far away, no dorm community, and no longer being a student. 
As you probably realize, since I'm writing this article, I decided to return to Notre Dame. At the time, it was ultimately a leap of faith and a decision that I can now say I am grateful I chose. For not only have I had the opportunity to learn from people committed to sharing the love of God with others, but I also have been a privileged witness of seeing Christ alive within our community, encountering people who are fervently seeking, committed to a journey of faith. Certainly the road is not at all easy and sometimes we wonder if it really will lead us home. Yet, I have renewed hope, inspired by the stories we share, the questions we ponder, our willingness to risk, and our desire to seek Truth in a world where God sometimes seems very far away. 
I originally expected to learn a concrete definition for ministry. However, I find myself constantly revising this definition, enriching it with new experiences. Ministry embraces love and a giving of ourselves; it's about finding Christ in our life situations. Ministry is in an Emmaus group, where people share their daily lives and Scripture, choosing to journey on the road together. Christ is in the Confirmation class where we raise challenging ques­tions and yet we also seek to embrace a faith full of mystery. Ministry happens on a Freshman Retreat where we share stories of joy and struggle and our search for community. There is a Spirit that moves throughout our experiences, within our hearts, and we strive to embrace and share it. Not only now as students, or as an intern, but always as people of faith, who believe that the journey is worth the effort, the struggle, the uncertainty. 
Now when people ask me, "What do you plan to do with your life?", I'll tell them, 'Tm on the road, but I'm not home yet..." 
---Katie Pytlak 

By the time graduation rolled around for me in May of 1997, I chose to join the ranks of the underappreciated, underpaid teaching corps of America through ND's own Alliance for Catholic Education. After a year spent in ACE discovering I wasn't wired up the right way to be a teacher, I took the position I currently hold as Campus Ministry Intern. The year I spent teaching kindergartners how to stop running without falling over had confirmed my belief that young adults are a desperately needed part of any faith community. What better place to take that belief out for a test drive than at Notre Dame, the faith community I had just begun to feel a part of before graduating. 
We hear all the time about young whippersnappers who are changing the world of high tech, sports, business, politics or entertainment with cutting edge innovation and geewhiz freshness. So why not in ministry? Why not bring some of that same innovation and fresh­ness to sharing faith and understanding our experience of God? Why shouldn't young peo­ple like me be pouring their creativity and energy into building an exciting church where faith and life are shared with equal parts joy, humor, and seriousness. I think we don't because somewhere along the line we became convinced that to do so one must possess the right answers to the right questions. And since we haven't come across too many of those answers lately, we've just politely excused ourselves from the conversation. That's a bunch of gobbledygook. 
As an intern in Campus Ministry, I've found some pretty exciting ways to enter back into that conversation. Interfaith Christian Night Prayer (Walsh Chapel, Wednesday night at 10pm) is a ministry where Christians from all faith communities are joining in prayer and worship with one another. No Greater Love (March 20), will be a day-long rally with music, prayer, and teaching. In April_. the Keeping the Faith series will liven up the discussion with a conversation about faith and pop culture. 1 have contributed to each of these new initia­tives in valL!able ways and have infused them with an attitude unavailable to my older col­leagues. 
Our voice is as valid and vital a voice in the chu~ch as any other. I'm not saying I have any more answers to life's major questions than I did when I started this crazy adventure, but I have learned that doing ministry is as good a place as any to start. Here's the great thing about ministry: It's not just reserved for the Campus Ministry Intern at Notre Dame; you can do ministry anywhere. 
Whether you're doing service, running a business, piling on the degrees, or researching the summer mating patterns of the southwestern armadillo, being active as a young person in your faith community can be done anywhere. Don't just shop around until you find a church that moves and excites you. Move and excite your church in to a place that nourish­es everybody. The Church needs some willing whippersnappers to step up and contribute. Any takers out there? 
-·-Frank Santoni 
I¦
(?MPUS
MINISTRY 

page 22 The Observer• SPORTS Thursday, February 18, 1999 
¦ PGA 

New rivalry growing on tour 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 

With the PGA Tour thriving, about all that's missing is a great rivalry, like Arnold Palmer-Jack Nicklaus. 
That may not be missing for long. 
Tiger Woods, whose arrival signaled the beginning of a new era on the Tour. and David Duval, who has been playing the game about as well as anyone ever has, seem destined to lock up in a natur­al rivalry. 
"It wo"u!d be great for him and me," said Woods, although he thinks it may not occur. 
"I don't see that happening because there are just too many good players out here," he said. "It's not just a hand­ful of guys who can win." 
But he and Duval are the guys who Sflern capab!fl of winning most consistently and even of dominating the Tour -and the attention -as Palmer and Nicklaus did in their heydays. 
Woods edged Duval after 
¦ SOCCER 

Wednesday's pro-am in the Nissan Open; they finished their rounds about the same time, and Woods made it to the press tent first for inter­views. Duval then declined to come to the interview room as scheduled. 
Ben Crenshaw. an ambas­sador for the game as well as one of its more accomplished playHs, lights up when he considers the prospect of a Woods-Duval rivalry. 
"It can't do anything b-ut help golf," Crenshaw said. "They're both incredible play­ers and I think they're going to push each other to be even better. 
"[t would be great for the sport, great for the people who follow the game. They're both so good. Both of them can do so many diffArent things it's unbelievable." 
Crenshaw, whose 19 titles includfl two Masters. said he marvels not only at the natur­al talent of the pair, but at their composure. 
"Tiger is doing an incredible job of concentrating, consider­ing everything he goes through,"said Crenshaw, alluding to the demands on Woods' time and the circus­type atmosphere when he's on the course. 
"He puts up with so much and so much is expected of him.. Because of how he can play. people expect him to win every tournament. That, of course. is impossible." 
Duval also has been suc­cessful because of his ability to conrentrate, Crenshaw said. 
"David's one of those fellows that nothing bothers. He does a beautiful job of putting it behind him when he hits a bad a shot or something,"Crenshaw said. "That's really hard for most of ustodo." 
There's already competition between Woods and Duval for the world No. 1 ranking. Woods currently is first and Duval second. 
Woods won for the first time in nine months last weekend at San Diego, when he shot a course-record 62 to come from far back on Saturday, then shoot a 65 on Sunday. 

Soccer star's father kidnapped 
Associated l'ress 
ACAPULCO 

Men armed with rifles kid­napped the father of Mexican soccer star Jorge Campos on Wednesday at a sports field named for his son. 
Campos, the flamboyant goalkeeper for Mexico, rushed home from Hong Kong, where he was with the national team, according to Mexico City radio station Formato 21. 
Two relatives confirmed the kidnapping on condition of anonymity, saying they feared for the life of Alvaro Campos. 
"There were six or eight

people with their faces uncov­ered ... but nobody recognized them," said one relative. 
truck to an unknown place." 
Formato 21 reported that the truck had been discovered a few miles away. 
Police officials said they couldn:t comment on the case until the family filed a com­plaint. But Wednesday night, dozens of pickup trucks sped through Acapulco's southern outskirts, filled with state police officers carrying auto­matic rifles. 
Alvaro Campos was seized at the Jorge Campos football field in Plan de los Amates, a former farming village that has been taken over by Playa 
Diamante tourist development 
on the southern end of Acapulco. "We have not had contact 
"-T-hc_,y_t_o_o_k_o_u_t_th-e-ir_g_u_n_s_a_n_d_w_1_·th_t_he_k-id_n_a_p-pe_r_s_._w_c~are
took him aboard a pickup 

r 
Recycle The Observer I 

For Faculty, Staff, and Students 
Friday, February 19th 11 am -2pm300 Lafortune 
Stop BY and See Us!!! All Are Welcome!!! 
.......... -.... ---­
waiting to have some contact with them because we fear for his life," one of the relatives said. 
Acapulco is the most famous city in Guerrero, a state that has been plagued by kidnap­pings in recent years. 
Campos, Mexico's starting goalkeeper at the World Cup in France, also plays in Major League Soccer for the Chicago Fire. He returns to Mexico during the offseason to play for a club team. 



-, veil for· (···•···• .. ttis ...· ·•·· .... and is 
a/'.\".ety talen(ed 'sgqad made up of ext.remely.,dedicated ph1yers. Duringtlfi1faH. they pra,ctice on th.e· ueJds.. near Stepanthroe timcs>a week at fl:.30 P:rn,, and:P}"a.ctlc~s at ~if~~1· L,o~us o .·· ·• .I!~, d-qring,tlt~s,pr;ing. Th pt~er 
. . .:;,~,1~. 
'•.Aind 
0 'h'i'sh· pl,11y regufafjy . , the players simply >tlve on the love of tbe ~ame ill making such. a. commitinentto a club spo_t:t. The Notre'.~11.me field 
Ji?G~~~ te~rri. ·· ril,1itlitng J~i:e),~owe tp.qtion 
alnia. ina.ter<of ead coach Janelle TranquitI6; Tliere are some ma.le rn~mbets on Notre Dame'S fijl(lhockey te~m. butonlyJhif tetnti a.re· 
in 
:p-. _.·achfote vl:tt$ity status." 

... · ... . . b:ey lfany6fre. male or female, 
..... . g out ... •.. · stjri all is interested in becoming a the..players. We're,!,<>frythey member of the Notre Dame won'.t be with us next week-field hockey team, pleaseend/' .. . contact either captain, 
Tpe ladies ot•.the Notre Carolyn Roderick at 634­0anw field hockey team will 2965 or Maureen Hoover at 
against MAC 634°4341,

(Midwestern Athletic 
Conference) squads like Ball 
State. Louisville. Michigan 
and Ohio State. The purpose 
of this five-on-five indoor 
tournament is to rank the 
varsity team.s, 
Co:-.ea'ptain _ Maureen Hoover has much confidence in the team: "Our enthusiasm is phenomenal, and our tal­ent is Division I caliber. We hope to prove ourselves next weekend so we can obtain varsity status. Many other teams in the Big East have varslty field hockey teams; why shouldn't we·?"
tastf~Jl, four··rnomhcrs of .the team were invited to the 
National Field Hockey 
Festival in Florida to play 
with various teams. This fes­
tlval ls an annual 1went 
where .various college field 
hockey club teams and varsi­
ty teams meet high school 
recruits from all over the 
country.
Nexf:y~'~f.the entire..team 
ls JnVJted to thls event and 
the l'ecognltipn and populari­
ty of the N0tre Dame field 
hockey team will grow even 
more. 
"We are really excited to 
be. a part of the NCAA 
Tournament next week,"said 
Roderick. This is a very good 
building ;blockfor the club. In 
the fOtuf-¢,. we hope to 

CLASS OF 1999...
JUST A 
REMINDER 
THAT IT'S THURSDAY 
College Night
Thw-sdays 
South Bend's 
Biggest Party 
99c COVER 
WITH STUDENT I.D. 

222 S. MICHIGAN 
SOUTH BEND • (219) 234-5200 
www.etceplaces.com/heartland 

GET IN THE 
THICK 
OF IT. 
Convenieorly located in the heart of 
downtown South Bend, Old Chicago 
Steakhouse has the hottest grill in town, 
serving up a NEW MENU of juicy USDA 
prime filer mignons, t-bones, and ribeyes 
(as well chicken, burgers and salads, too). 
See whv steaks arc our consuming passion. 
222 S. MICHIGAN• SOUTH BEND (219) 234-5200 
.. 
l______ ______ _ 

µ

----.w---•••-----•----.-----..--.--A 1 1 5 ) , , , , 9, 9', f, , .' , , , • , • • l . i , • • '' 

Thursday, February 18, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS 
the final minute to cut the mar­it can get them so that they gin to five points. might earn an NIT invitation. ...
M-8.Ball 
In a game both learns nncdcd, The Irish played well enough Syracuse addnd another win in defense lo win, but their contin­
continued lroni page 28 
hnpt1s of impressing the NCAA ued inability to control the ball Tournammit committ11e, Notre on ol'fonsc killed any chance of
WydHl. and Todd l'almnr com­llamn now needs wins any way victory. With lngelsby's status
birwd for four tllrPP-pointNS in 
[Use Observer Classifieds I 
DON'T WEIGH YOUR SELF-ESTEEM: IT'S WHAT'S INSIDE THAT COUNTS 
EATING DISORDERS AWARENESS WEEK FEBRUARY 20-27, 1999 
_Do yoo have I IOY<Jhate ielatlomhip will! food? _Doyoo have negllive fecllnp ohoot 'JOIJl' ~? _Do )'<lll reel WlCCf1Aln lhoot wll.ll 10 Cl!. whm Ill ca. mcl bow 10 ~ ~cly? _Do yoo WOfTJ lboot afriend'1 bclllvior wllb food llld/<J' ..en:ue? 
Olin Knowledge Thul Weu By Atrending One or Mm: ofThcoc: Prosram,,: 
Sunday, Februar1 21, 1'99: 

DODY LOAffilNG .... BODY LOVE, l PM & 6 PM 2PM, IIESBUROH LJIIR/J\Y AUDrrolUUM, UNIVER.SrrY OPNOl1U!DAMI! 6 PM, MORf!AU CENTER/LITilJ! Til.llATIUl, ST. MARY'S COLU,Ol! 
P!UlSl!NlEDBY ANINDIANAl'OLIS TIIEATRBTROUl'll,A.C.T. OtTrENSEMIILE. lllROUOII SCl!Nl!!. MONOLOOUES AND MOV!lMllNTl'Il!CliS nmY wn.L P0aJS ON l'IIEVENTION AND EDUCATION ANO ADDI\P.SS TIIB ISSUES, Fl'J:UNOS AND Cll\CUMSTANO'S IIEHIN!> ANOIU!XIA, 
BIJUMII., AND BllfGIHIATINO DISORDERS, Tllll 1'1\00'PE OI' MAUI AND PEIMLll ACTOIIS OEAA TIIIS l'IIOlll!cnON TO Boni MEN AND WOME.N, AOES 17 AND OI..DEJI, AND mB BNl1Rl! 11D AND SMC COMMUNITIES ARll lNYnl'D TOATlllNDEITlll:l! ~Cl!. 
Mooda1, February 22, 1999: 

TI-IB PITFALLS 01' RESTRJCTIVB DIETING 7 -1 PM, ROOM 300. UNIVERSITY COUNSEUIIO CENTElt, 7' FLOOa, JIEALnl SERVICl!S BUii.DiNO 
PRF.SEHn!D BY f.NNA UHRAN, REOIS1F.ltl!D DIE'na...N AND CONSULTANT 1'01111! UNIVERSrrY COUNSl!UNO Cl!NlEll. UNIVERSITY OP NOlllll DAMI!. RESBAI.Ol SUOOESTS nlAT MANY Pl!OPUl WHOElfD UP Bl!INO Dl~EDWIDIEATINO DISORDER3 STAR1E>OUT DIETINO. IP 1'.ATINO WEU. ANO LOSINO WEIOITT IN A SARI ANO MOOORATII WAY IS YOUR OOAL, ATIENI> nus SESSION TO Ll!ARN nmDIFFERENO!S Bl!TWEEN OIEl1NO POR Till!S!IORT-TEaM AND 1'.ATINO 111!.Al.Tl!Y POil UFll. 
Thunda1, Februa.., 2-5, 1999: 

VF.OBTAJliAN DINING STRATEOIBS IN 1llE DINJNO HALLS J-6 fM. DOOUIY ROOM. L-\l'OIITUNE SIUill!Hf Cl!Nll!Jt 
PRESl!Nl'E>BY JOOBANTONEU.l,NUDJllON ANOSAFKl'Y MANAOER. R)(JDSERVKl!S, 
UNIVl!UITY Ol'NOlll!IDAMB. IIIAlt!ISUltlllllATIP YOUR 0!010! IS ro Bl!.A VF.OEl'ARIAN TIIATYOU DO SO IN A WAY lllATl'ltOVIDES YOUl TAS1EDIJD5 WTill B0111 SATISFAcnON 
AND l'IICft.Jt N1JJ111110N. 

TIIIS WEl!1( ·s AcnV111!.! ARB BPJN(l CO,$P()NS()Rf!. BY nm RJU.OWINO OROANIZATIONS: Coanoellna c:au.,, -Doo>e: C...-llr!j: Cam.SL May', Clolqc; Rcaldaa Ute.-DaM; Food -Noon: Dome; w-·• Rcaourto Cmocr, 11o1n Dane; (lradoao, s,_Unloo. N..,. Dome:.,._ 
R-NolnDlmo; .-Studl..,NoonO-:a,l~Slodmr°"""-Nonllomo. 
QUF.STIONS7?m??????? CALL UCC AT 631-7336 
csc 
C E N T E R F O R 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Come to hear the stories of 
Chicago Gang Members 
with Brother Bill Toomes 
-an open discussion-
Sunday, February 28, 1999 4 p.m. Center for Social Concerns 
The Observer/Jell Hsu Senior center Phil Hickey and the Irish can only hope to rebound this weekend, when they host West Virginia. 
.··¦ SPORTS BRIEFS 
WOMEN'S RUNNING CLUB -For all those who prefer . companions to the treadmill, the Women's Running Club is op~ilto runners of any level at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. 
·. T~eyare intent upon enjoying their workouts as they explore :running routes around ND, Saint Mary's, and in South Bend. CaltRene at 4-2710 or Jenny at 4•2914 with questions.
·"&a 

e,,;: 
J Got Sports? Call 1-4543 j 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE DANCE WORKSHOP PRESENTS 



NK<.\ ~ 
New student works & perionnance improvisation 
Fri., Feb 19 at 8 p.m. • Sat., Feb. 20 at 8 p.m. • Sun.. Feb. 21 at 2:30 p.m. O'LaughJin Aucfrtorium 
Tickets on sa~h~~~!5::r:.~~~~~~~~!~MgNfiiJ
in O'Laughlin Auditorium, open 9 a.m. • 5 p.m., ~o rHE ARrs 
Monday-Friday. "°..,..,,...,.. ,,. 
Nicl<'s 0tM&nl4 

-
Ho11.ra 

•
Breakfast served all day •Lunch •Dinner 

•Or 
a snack ANYTIME 


Just Minutes from Campus 
.... 277-7400 
····'········1 
Thursday, February 18, 1999

Page 24 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

Open Letter from the Student Members ofthe Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs 
Dear Friends, 
We are hurt and disappointed by the Board of Trustees' decision not to include sexual orientation in the non-discrimination clause of the University of Notre Dame. We respect the Trustees; however, we entirely disagree with their position on this issue. The gay community at Notre Dame and its supporters feel betrayed. We do not want to believe that our plea for justice and understanding has been ignored. 
Although differences exist within this Standing Committee on this matter, we are united in our firm commitment to do all that we can to make Notre Dame a safe, caring environment for all gay, lesbian, and bisexual students. 
We offer this letter as a direct signal of hope to those of you who are gay, lesbian, or bisexual. Together we ask God to stand by each of us in our difficult journey through Notre Dame. 
We also offer this letter as a word of gratitude to those of you who fought and continue to fight for equality at Notre Dame. You have sacrificed much for the cause of justice, and God shall return this reward to you. 
In hope, we ask every individual who seeks justice in this matter to visit the Grotto today and light a candle. Your candle will serve as a sign of peace to the gay, lesbian, and bisexual members of the Notre Dame community who suffer, as a sign of peace to the Board of Trustees, and as a sign of peace with our God. 
Sincerely, 
Theresa M. Gibbons, '99 Alyssa L. Hellrung, '00 Mark F. Massoud, '99 Student Members of the Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs 
LIGHT A CANDLE AT THE GROTTO TODAY FOR HOPE, JUSTICE, AND PEACE 
-
... 
_____________________c__:_:__::___:_,:__~-----------------------------~---=c-­
¦ NHL 
.... 
Thibault solid as Blackhawks blank Canucks 
in Uw Western Confcrcncn. cvcn-strnngth by Kilger. 
The Canucks, who have tho Gilmour swatted in a 
CIIIC/\(iO socond-worst record in the rebound from side of the 
Jornlyn Thilrnull stoppml 29 \Nest. am 2-6-1 in their last Vaneouvnr net. Kilger connect­shots l'or his l'ourth shutout of' ni1w. Unrler coach Marc orl when his 45-foot shot from tl1P s1•ason ancl Chad Kilgnr Crawford. who rnplaced Mike the right boards slipped scort•d twi('n as th1• Chicago Konnan on .Ian. 24, Vancouver through Snow, who was Blarkliawks blanhd thn is 3-7-l. srrambling to get bark in the VancouvPr Canucks 4-0 Thibault, who notched his net. W1id11nsday. 11th carnnr shutout. has throe The Blackhawks stretched 
Doug c;i!mour and Tony this season with the their advantage to 4-0 aftnr /\111ontn 1•a1·h had a goal and Blnckhawks. Bof'ore coming to two pnriods. Whih1 thn teams an assist for Chirago. wh1d1 Chicago in a Nov. 16 Lrade, he were skating 4-un-4, Kilger m a n agPCI o II Iy l 4 shots o 11 had 01111 shutout with the r,ompletrd a 2-on-0 break with 
Vancouv,·r goaltnnder Carth Mo11Lr1~a1 Canadicns. Ed Olczyk. Amonto ripped in a Snow. Si11c1~ snapping a stw1~n­Despitr, only three shots on 20-fool shot after being set up ga III r> losing strPak. th11 Snow, Chicago !<id 2-0 al'ter thn bv .Iran-Yves Leroux. IHa1·khawks havn won two ol' l"irst pnriocl on a power-play ·Thibault's touglrnst savn in llm•1\ but n~main in last plw'.1\ goal by Gilmour and and one at the scoreless third period came 
Everthoughtaboutacareerin Speecl.-Language PatLologT'I 
Saint Mary's College Speech-Language Pathology Club 
meets Thursday, February 18th at 
7:00 p.m. in Rm 228 Moreau Hall 
GuestSpeakerfrom South Bend CommunitySchoolCorp. 
Free Pi.zzal 
Anyone interested is welcome! 
0 

Come Join the Tradition Applications are now being accepted form~,,. positions for the 1999-2000 academic schoo~;,f 
,:,,· ···.,;, 

You may pick up applications aftbe· Office of Student Activities 315 Lafortune 

1. eadline: February 26 
' •~ 
with 8:50 romaining whnn he stopped Todd Bertuzzi point blank after the Canucks for­ward cut in alone to the nnt. 
Stars 2, Panthers 1 
Jamie Langenbrunner broke up a scorolcss game in the third period and .Joe Nieuwendyk later added a power-play goal as the Dallas Stars won their fourth straight, 2-1 over tlrn Plorida Panthers on Wednesday night. 
Dallas is 7-1-1 in its last nine games. Florida fell to 1-4-2 in its last seven. 
Langcnbrunner knocked tlrn rebound of his own shot past Panthers goalie Scan Burke with 15:11 to play !'or Langonbrunnor's oighth goal. Burke had been unbeatabln to that point, stopping Dallas' lirst 23 shots. 
Ni<>uwondvk added his 13th goal on a d,;llection with I 0:31 left while the Stars worn on their sixth pow11r play or tlrn night. 
Hadek Dvorak broke up Homan Turek's shutout bid with 3:46 left on a screened shot from the point. Dvorak's ninth goal made it 2-1. 
Plorida's Hay Whitney had a chance to tie when Im darted into open space on the right side and blasted a shot with five seconds left, but Turek cut down the angle and made the save. 
Burke finished with 27 saves, while Turek had to stop only 15 shots. 
The Stars held the territorial edge over the first two periods, outshooting the Panthers 21-6. But Burke stopped 12 prime scoring chances and nine power-play shots to keep the game scoreless. 
The Panthms were beginning an eight-game stretch during which they will face top Wnstorn Conf1irnnco con­tnnders Dallas, Ph1rnnix, Colorado and Dotroit. 
Florida was without star right wing Pavel Burn, who misserl his sixth consocutivn gume Istrain1id right knee). Defonsem an Brnt rt ,id ican (eye), right wing Dino Ciccarnlli (back) and goali<i Kirk McLoan (ribs) also sat out f'or Florida. 
Burt! has bnnn skating in Florida and is expl'ctl'd bark soon. 
!foci Wings], Sharks 1 
Brnndan Shanahan scorl'd tlw go-alrnad goal and Dnt.roit goalt.endPr Chris Osgoo1I was brilliant UH tlrn Bnd Wings dn/'natPd tlin San .Jos,• Sharks :1-1 l'or their fil'th straight win Wodncsday night. 
It also was tlw l'if'th straight victory for Osgood, who llll'IH'd away :rn shots whiln snapping San .lmrn's four-gamP winning streak. Mik1i Vnrnon fac!'d 2:{ shots in tlw Sharks' goal. 
Vyaclrnslav Kozlov and Doug Brown also scornd for l>ntroil. Stephann Matteau con111H'tPcl for Lim Sharks. 
Shanahan, who has points in Detroit's last thrnn gamns, snapped a 1-1 tin with his 21st goal 31 seconds into llw sec­ond 1rnriod. Vernon, riding a personal thrnn-gamn winning strnak, madn a nice stick savP on Sergni Fndorov's shot l'rom tho left circln. But tho rPl)l)und went right lo Shanahan, who slapped it in ov<>r the sprawl­ing Vernon. 
Brown's insurance goal, his eighth. came while both sides were short a man at 4:56 of the third period. 
Kozlov's 14th goal in the lirst period gaw DNroit a 1-0 lnad. !In sneaked a shot from th<' slot unc!Pr tlw glow of Vernon. who was screpned by Darrnn Md:arty. 
C.J.'s Pub 
Friday Night Lenten Dinner Specials 
417 N. Michigan St. 
... 
... 
-
-
..... W-B.Ball 
continued from page 28 
ganw with 17 points, gave Notre Dame a one-point lead just over a minute into play. 
By tlrn time the scoring drive was over, Syracuse went almost nine minutes without scoring and foll behind 18-3. Dospite shooting 1-for-18 in the first Hl minutes, Syracuse used a strong showing· on the ofl'<rnsive boards to earn some Slocond attempts. 
"I was pleased with our defense," said Irish coach Mu!Tet McGraw. "We gave a fow offensive n~bounds earlv on but I think we tightened up. We had a little bit of trouble in the back of the zone -we re11lly miss DaniPlle Green." 
"Green did not play in the ganw after suffering a sprained rotator cuff in last Saturday's game at Rutgers. She was replaced in the start­
-· 
ing linirnp by freshman 
Slrnrisha Hills, who picked up 
her first start of the season. 
at the Joyce Center. 
-
1v1curaw, wno nas re11ea on a strong scoring effort from her bench this season, suffered without the services of Green. "There were times !tonight! when we nended a little spark from the bench," she said, "and we didn't havp that tonight." 
The Irish continued to build their lead as the half came to a close, finishing the half with a 21-point lead. Sheila McMillen provid()d most of the spark that the Irish were lacking from the bench, hitting four treys in the half, including her 72nd of the season with 6:56 remaining. 
Finishing the game with six three-pointers, McMillcn now totals 75 on the season ­three morn than Beth Morgan's school-record effort in the 1995-1996 season. 
"It reflects on my team­mates," said McMillcn on hr.r team's effort to work past Syracuse's zone defense to find her on the perimeter. "They've worked hard all sea­son getting the ball to the open person, and tonight it was 
me: 
McMillr,n finished the game as thr, limding scorer with 20 points on 6-for-14 shooting both from the floor and from outside. Riley and freshman Ericka llaney also finished in double digits for the Irish with 16 and 12 points respectively. 
What Notre Dame failed to pickup from its bench, the Orangewomen did. Leigh Aziz added 16 points to Syracuse's effort, including 11 points in the second half. Fortunately for the Irish, their starting group ended the game with a solid effort, holding off Syracuse's offense and turning a 21-point lead at the half into the final 22-point game. 
After the 77-57 loss at Rutgers on Saturday, McCraw·s team wastr,d no time returning her team to the 
powcrhousn  that  won  11  
straight  dating  back  to  
Januarv.  

"I krJCW we would come out and play hard tonight," she said. "Wn always have after a loss. It says a lot about our team." 


-
_... 
Stac),:'. Cartledge
Tony D'Souza Lisa Marie Fabrega

Katie Lehman Mary Margaret Nussbaum Josie Vodicka 


. . The Observer/Liz Lang 
With six three-pointers last night, senior Sheila McMillen has now set a new school record for most treys in a season. 
McMillen 
continued from page 28 
son high with eight rnbounds last night. "I can definitely reflect on my teammates and how they're getting me the ball. I think that shows our balance as well as our unselfishness. We want every­one to score and everyone to get the ball; it makes us that much tougher to stop." 
The Irish captain is having an outstanding senior season, leading the Irish to a 21-3 record. 
"I think I have a lot of' exp11­rience, just coming from the ~inal rour team and playing 111 a lot a of NCAA games," McMillrn said. "As far as leadership, I have to cover every area and bring it every night. It's not something you can go into the game without. I have to make sure every­one's ready to play and is in their places." 
McMillen has been a leader on Muffet McGraw's squad all season. 
With the Irish trailing Rutgers by 20 points late in the game Saturday, McMillen took control of the team hud­dle and kept the squad in the right frame of mind. 
"I think thl' team looks to me for guidancn and in situa­tions like that, it's important to make sure people bPlieve that we still have a shot," said McMillen, wt,o had six treys and a game-high 18 points in that loss to Hutg,,rs. 
McMillen has scored 20 or more points in nine games this sPason and has movnd all tho way up sixth on Notrn Danrn's all-tim11 scoring list. 
"It's nicr., but it's not some­thing I can look at right now," McMillnn said. "WhPn thn season's over and I can look back on my four years here, it's something that I'll look at with a lot of prid<)." 
McMillen is now poised to lead the Irish into tlw confor­
e n c1:  tournament  and  an  
NCJ\A tournament berth.  
"Especially now,  when  W(!  

arc on thn vnrge of postsca­son play, I think you get those feelings !about getting back to tlw Final Four!," McMillen said. "We came into the sea­son with high expectations and are trying to get back there." 
With just two regular sea­son games left on thll sched­ule, McMillen's roln will take center stage, as the Irish make a run for their first­ever conforencn tournament title. 

Nob-eDan-te PrelawSocid'i Meetl"S 
FeLruary 22, 1.999 (Monday) 
7:oo -9:oo P.M. 
1.29 DeBartolo HaD 
*Juniors and Seniors* 
SLURRED SPEECH 
DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 

FOXTROT 

SCOTT ADAMS 
Wl.\0 WANTS 
A NICE 
WORM"? 


~ !  GOOD, &CAU5E THE REAL PLI\N IS THE  i ~  
~ ~  OPPOSITE OF Wl-l~T  ~ .  
~  I  ;:fl)$T  $\-\OWED  ;  
~  'YOU.  ~  
E  -~  I  
8 t: GI  RE.AL PLAN  ; ~  
f!  
i5  

ACROSS  2a Elvis's middle  59 Bother terribly  
1 Creators of booms 5 like some classical architecture 10 Free  name 29 Obstacle 32 Duffer's dream 35 Lock 36 It may be missed 37 Assayer's  60 Bumped off 61 Tight end, at times 62 Doesn't work 63 It may be cracked  
13 Kind of pricing 14 Levi's "Christ Stopped at  measure 39 Fooled 40 Hoisting apparatus  DOWN 1 Beach  
15 Midvoyage 1& Lowest card in  42 Conceal, as cards  application 2Trim  
pinochle 17 He follows Jay 18 Marionette  44 Outbursts 45 Asylum seeker 48 Fall follower  3 "Pride's Crossing" playwright Howe  

maker Tony 49 Frittata 4 Breastbones 19 Some outdoor so Novelist's sAmountof festivals frustration sound 21 Case in Latin 54 Ne plus ultra & They're found 23 Loaded 55 Judge, e.g. among the 
Londoners 57 Country singer reeds 24 Turns in Mason 7 Silver and 25 Bring to light 58 --ex machina Brown 
aDockworkers' 
org. 

"NSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 9 Masonry unit 10 Carrier name 
_____.___.A__._R...... until 1997 L U A ~~.:+::+-:-L O 11 Chutzpah G R I 12 Artery problems 

A I R ~-•.::.J-=-.i.::::.. 1s Actor John of "The Addams Family" 
20 Valley of the 
•.:=J~~0:...1 Kings sites E 22From--Z 24 Wasn't merely PE mad -~=-i.N:::.J.:A...J.:L:..i 25 Job preceder; ~1-!...l~!-+==+:....Jl...._:::~:..i.:::+::..i:..:.~~ Abbr. I N G 26 Remarkably, in 

0 D I commercialese N A N 27 Shaded 
.... 



¦ OF INTEREST 

Holy Cross Associates is now accepting applications for the 1999-2000 program yoar. HCA is also sponsor­ing a Discernment Evening on Sunday, Feb. 21 from 5­8 p,m. at the Catholic Worker House. For more info, or to RSVP for Sunday, call Jon at 1-5521. 
Volunteer Basketball Coaches are needed for the Boys and Girls Club of St. Joseph County. The league will run from March 3 until May 7. One(~ the season begins, the time commitment will be about two hours per week. For more information, call 232-2048, 
Natural Family Planning instructional class series to assist the engaged and married staff and studenl-; will begin today at 7:15 p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre in Lafortune Student Center. The series is co­sponsored by Campus Ministry and the Natural family Planning program of St. .Joseph County. 
_ The Black History Month lecture originally planned for Thursday night has been postponed until March 25 due to a sclrnduling conflict. 
Wanted: Reporters and photographers.
50 Clever ones 
51 Anticrime acronym 
52 Where runners are found 

Join 
53 It may get a ru:iaround 
56 "Norma--" 

The Observer 
Puule by WIiiiam I. Johnllon 
30 First of Caesar's claims 31 Sister or mother 32 Places of protection 33 Yachter's bane 34 Times for vacances 37 Done for 38 Kind of year 40 Sans-serif typeface 41 Vacation souvenirs 
42Whines 43 Tree rings indication 45 Dragnet 
operation 46 Host 47 Leg bone 48 Doctor 

CELEBRITIES SORN ON THIS DAY: Walter Monda!(', Robert Duvall, Carl Evans, Ted Lange 
Happy Birthday: Shoot for the stars. The glory will be yours if you are true to yourself and your beli<'fs. You can have your cake and eat ii, too, if you are prepared lo stick to your standards. This is a wonderful year to accomplish the dreams that you have harbored for some time now. So don't be afraid lo make a move, or you might miss the oppor­tunity of a lifetime. Your numbers: 4, 9, 10, 23, 37, 46 
You won't back down from oppo­sition. Have your facts straight befon> you jump into any situation with both feet. The possibility of being fed the wrong information is likely. Do your own research and you'll reach your goats. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Don't hesitate to apply for a better position. You wilt be able to impress your romantic partner with your culinary skills and your high-energy approach to life. 00000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Ro­mantic opportunities will be yours if you get out and socialize. You can achieve your persona! goals if you put in a tittle extra effort. Children may play a big role in your life today. 
00 

GEMINI {May 2.1-June 201: Y,m will have spats with your loved ones if you are too busy gallivanting with friends. Tak" care of all your domestic chores first. Moves are-apparent, but you don't appear to be too enthusias­
tic 0000 

~·•·•·--..., .·,..: Zl•July 22): ·;. will meet new friends or lov s through travel or educational p ,r­suits. Don't be shy. Say what's on ,·our m1:,ci aJ"l'1 ho 'iure tu Stiel--rl", your beliefs rather than taking th, opinions of others. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You should be geared up to make career move~ You can make extra cash if you look into long-term investments. New partnerships can be formed if yot, attend group meetings. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You'n• normally calm. Today it will be diffi­cult lo cope with the <'motional tn1u bles of others. Try not to meddle in their affairs. You have enough to de,,! with already. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0cl. 22): Ynu may find it difficult to deal with chil­dren and financial matters. Put your energy into physical changes that you wish to make around th<' home. Dec­orate, renovate or go shopping 
0000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov, 21): You will be attracted to members of th, opposite sex if you attend functions o, an intellectual nature, Helping tho,, less fortunate wit! enhance your !"l'P" tahon and bring you popularity 00 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 211 Your ability to attract new lovers m,l\ get you into trouble. You must t,, honest with partners you really don care to be with any longer. You ne<, to avoid unsavory situations. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 191 You can make professional gains an. acquire important informatio, regarding business interests. R,· establishment of past romantic ti,· may be a little confusing. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan, 20-Feb. 181 Investment deals may not be as soli, as they app,•ar. You must read the fi11 print before you sign on the dott, !ine. l.inusu;11.~irru,m~t~_nr~,; appt1.1r • l:e_~u11'Uuf1U1,,g ,t>gv1 uv,._u ..,.._.,. 
.ti!:Lt:.~ (rd.., ::1-MauJ1 ;;. , t, someone about your personal h There may be a good rt' •son !or ti . "'''""""' '''"' ,..., r....1,1 .. •• 7,,,m,,.,: mar Ot: l'Urt,uii;1b ) uu: 1:·_......'"UllUT : ative endeavors will be therapeut, 
000 
.... 
VARSITY SHOP
VARSITY SHOP

.... ,.•. #1.JI. M.en's-1ennis 
Men~ Basketball 
vs. vs. Wor+hwes+ern 
Sa+. Fet,. 2.0 a+ 1 pM
West Virginia sun. Feb. 21 @ 2.·oopm vs. +t'J.3 Minnesota ..... a•'I. Sun. Fe~. 2.1 a+ 12. PM 
VARSITY SHOP
VARSITY SHOP 
,••. 


Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 

staff.
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 
sn v.,,.,,.·1-RAA.7_4ri:1nc::c:: 

-
--
-

¦ Duke beat Florida ¦ Shortstop Derek State to earn the Jeters hopes to lead the Atlantic Coast New York Yankees to Conference title this year's world Series.
PORTS 
p.18 p.16 
THE 

Thursday, February 18, 1999
page 28 OBSERVER 

¦ WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Notre Dame leaves Syracuse seeing Orange 
Control of tempo 
early on gives home team win 
By ANTHONY BIANCO Assist.int Sporn Eu1tor 
There was onlv one lead change in the g<{me, and it came in Notrn Oame's favor 

-early on as they went on to top Syracuse 82-60 Wednesday 
night. 
Orangewomen guard Jamie James broke the net first with a three-point shot 20 seconds into the ganrn after Syracuse controlled the opening tip. For coach 1'1arianna Freeman, get• ting on the board first against a Notre Dame lfmrn that came into the ganw rankPd ninth in the nation was the numher­one priority. 
"Our goal was to try to get out of the block lirst," she said. "How we've startnd ganrns has b1:l.'n a probll'rn for us in past games." 
It was a problem against Notre Dame Wednesday night. as well. The Irish took posses­sion after James' trey and went to work on an 18-0 run that lasted the first 10 minutes of the game. Ruth Riley got things started with a jumper from the paint, and Nielc Ivey followed that up with a steal and a resulting layup that gave the Irish the lead r,hange they needed. Ivev, who finished the second-leading scorer in the 

.... 
see W-B.BALL/ page 26 
¦ Mrn's BASKETBALL 

Irish plagued by turnovers 
By ALAN WASIELEWSKI  high 32 points at West Virginia,  in  fast  break  lay-ups  for  
Spans W ricer  Murphy faced continuous dou­ Syracuse. The Irish shot a  pal­ 
ble and sometimes triple-team  try 15 percent over the first 10  
The word "turnovers" must  defense.  minutes, scoring just six points.  
be like a dagger in the hearts of  Syracuse's  Etan  Thomas  In that time, Syracuse pushed  
- the Irish players. Plagued by turnovers  the  wreaked havoc on any inside moves Murphy or Phil Hickey  its lead to 12 behind the rebounding and defense of  
entire season,  Notre Dame  attempted. Thomas, second in  Thomas.  
stayed true to l'orm at Syracusf\  the country in blocked shots,  Just when it seemed that the  
last night. Another solid defen­ finished with his best game of  game was getting out of con­ 
sive effort was lost to ball-han­ the year, totaling 22 points, 16  trol, the Irish decided to put a  
dling problems.  rebounds, and six blocks.  little run  together. Answering  
Syracuse  converted  just  Murphy took just five shots in  the Syracuse challenge, Notre  
enough Irish gifts into points to  the first half, as he was hound­ Dame put together a seven­ 
come away with  a  71-65 win.  ed by both Thomas and Jason  point burst behind  a  David  
- Notre Damf\ is now 12-14 over­ Maxwell.  Graves three-pointer, a  Hickey  
all, (J-9 in Big East competition,  Although the Irish offense  drive, and two Murphy free  
and in jeopardy of losing any  struggled, Notre Dame's con­ throws. Syracuse seemed shcll­ 
post•seasun opportunities.  stant switching between zone  shocked, as head coach Jim  
The loss oi' starting pDint  and man-to-man defense held  Bod1eirn used three timPouts to  
guard Martin lngelsby in the  I.he Syracuse offense in check  try to stave off tllfl lrish rally.  
firsl minutr, of' the ganw only­ early on.  Two more  free throws from  
corn pounded  Notre  Dume 's  l\lurphy's hvo free throws at  Murphy cut the Syracuse lead  
ball-control  difficulties.  the end of the half reduced the  to six with six minutes left, but  
lngelsby turned his ankle on  Orangemen's lead to just three  Notre Dame seemed to run out  
Syracuse's first possession and  points.  of energy at that point. In just a  
did not return to action. Jimmv  The Notre Dame team that  minute, the lead was back to 10  
Dillon initially supplied a spark  walked into the locker room  and Syracuse finished on cruise  
off the bench, contributing  decided  not to  return until  control.  
seven  points and five rebounds  seven minutrs had expired in  Notre Dame  was clown eight  
before half time.  the second half.  with 1 :30 remaining when they  
Notre Dame struggled to get  In his first two possessions,  started to foul. The lead contin­ 
the ball into the hands of Troy  Dillon  committed  two  ued to balloon until Graves,  
... - Murphy. Coming off a career- turnovers, each of which ended  see M-B.BALL/ page 23  


McMillen scores game-high twenty 
in victory 
By BRIAN KESSLER 
As,i>1ant Sports fa!icor 
W!Jon it rains. it pours. 

That's how it must feel l'or tlw coadws on tlw opposing sideline, when Sheila McMillcn drains another shot from downtown. Tlw three­point specialist has made a living from bohind thH arc and now is Notn• Dame's sin­gle-season record holder l'or thrne-point field goals made. 
With six treys in last night's 82-60 vietory over Syracuse, McMillcn passed Beth Morgan and set u new single season record at 75. 
"I novnr o .cn really thought about it at tho beginning of tho year," said McMillen, who finished with a game-high 20 points last night. "It was not somi;thing I was shooting for. and coming into this gam11 I didn't cvPn know I was thrn<' away. 
McMillen is also now on the verge of breaking another of Morgan's records. She needs just six more threes to becomo tlrn ull-timf! !Hader for career three pointers made. 
"1 don't want to think about it yet. but it'll be nice," said McMillcn, who tied her sea-
see MCMILLEN/ page 26 

ac West Virginia Women's Tennis at Michigan State Saturday, 2 p.m. CW' at National Team Indoor Tournament ~ Friday, 7 p.m. 
SPORTS 
·,;::-_:-::....! 
Today-Sunday 

• 
Baseball
-
ATA 
Men's Tennis " vs. James Madion vs. West Virginia 
(ff'1

Sunday, 2 p.m. '•:::;;;;::,,' vs. Norchwestern at Miami, Fla. Saturday, I p.m. Friday, 11 a.m.
GLANCE 






