
'90210' and 'Party of Five' Fans Death Toll Reaches 15 in Littleton 
Thursday

¦ Scene's correspondents cake a look ac che 
¦ Officials confirmed 15 dead in the shootings at 
TV hits that have survived the years with con­
Columbine High School in Linleton, Colo. Earlier 
r.tgious scorylines. 

estimates had put the figure at 25. 
APRIL 22, 


1999
News• 7 

THE 



The Independent New!ipaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 128 WWW. N D.EDU/~OBSERVER 
¦ .... G~Vl:RNANCf 
River forces destruction of historic campus landmark 
By BRIDGET EGAN l>alloway's has brconw ing this summer, but will N~w• Wril<J v,iry unstahlr1 in renrnt no longer b,! necessary due yPars and t!H1 road along to its removal. This sum­
11,~n11vati11ns to Uw Sninl the riV!\I' will need to lw ninr work will bn done to Mary's campus arP sdwd­rnlocatf'd. move llw rnad and stabilize ul!'CI to lwgin tllis summP1-, ''It is unf'orlllnatli that tlm tlw river bank arf'a. Plans al'l'ordin){ to an 1u1110t:11c1i­geology o/' tile anm is lim:­to find a new location for nwnl mad«• Ill lhP Hoard of ing us to abandon this cam-evnnls hold tlwn1 are (; o v (' r 11 a II r " aln•ady under Ill t• f' I. i 11 g way and, hopnl'ul­\,\' t• d n t' s d a y ly, will bn in placn nighL 
by tlrn fall.
'WEARE ALL SAD­
.. I' r 11 b I ,, m s Thern w11re
DENED BY THE LOS.S
alo11g tlw 1•dgl' many gasps and of llw St. .losqih OF DALLOWAY'S. IT IS A shockfld facns 
J!iV('I' fill t.fll' around tlrn con-
VALUABLE PLACE ON CAM­
nm11ws of Saint J'ernncn tabln 
PUS, BUT WE UNDERSTAND when Timm
i\fory's CullPgP 
IlaVP m·,·pssiLal­THE REASONS BEHIND THE sharnd I.Im news. Pd a <ltidsion to "Them is so 
DECISION.'

rarr' tlw much tradition Cl11bhfl!1SI', /I associated with landmark llllild-tlw clubhouse 
N,\NCY MWDEN that it is unfortu­
ing on c·ampus," SA!N'/' M11m·'.\· ST/!fJFNT fJO/Jl' l'RF:SmENT nate, .. said Elise
acrordi11g lo the• prc•ss rn 11• as,• llall, execulive f'rm11 thP Coll1w•. )Hts landmark. It. has !wen a trnasurcr. "But this might 
1.i11da Timm. vin•-prnsi­rntn\at ol' sorts f'or our stu­bn thu opportunity to crnatc dl'nl for St1tdPnt Affairs and den ts and a special place a new social arna for stu • guPsl sp,•akl'r at tlw BOC for many," Timm was quot­dcnl'i." 111c•Pt.ing, 1•xplai111•d that t!d as saying in tlw release. Nancy Midden. student both thP Sislt•rs of' th" I loly Tlw Clubhous1) was built body president, summed up Cross and lhl' Collr•gp havP around I923, and has btrnn tlrn Board's feelings when hPt'l1 working on tlw ,·am­usml as a gatlwring place slrn said, "We are all sad­
pus masti•r planning simul­and also proviclr,d spacn for dened by the loss ol' Lan1•011sly. Tim planning Dalloway's. the studnnt-run Dalloway's. It is a valuable groups disrnwrncl that tlir colT<!n house. Hcnovalions wholl' an•a ol' land bnhiml wnrn planrn~d for tlrn build-see DALLOWAY'S / page 4 


¦ S'!'· O;:f\ll SENATE 
Old and new senate members discuss Key Bank policy 
By FINN PRESSLY from opening accounts with Kny Bank. Assistant News Editor Thn senate also debatnd a rnsolution rngarding structural rnvisions of du l.ac. 
Forrnnr student body prcsidi,nt Peter "Every two ynars, du l.ac goes undPr a Cesaro took the lloor of last night's nwet­major revision. Tim off ynars an• minor ing of the Student Senate to argue f'or rnvisions," said MiclHtPI SpnakPr, chair­two resolutions aimed at increasing Urn man of' tlrn du 1.ar rnvision con1111ittnc•. campus presence of other financial insti­Minor revisions, hn nxplairwd. an• usu­tutions. al[y as simpln as changing a piclurP. 
The resolutions stem l'rom the Major nwisions. hownvPr, usually involvP announcement that Key Bank customnrs changing thn structurn and ordcw of' tlw will soon be charged a monthly thren handbook, he said. dollar servico f'ee. Cesaro said. Though This year's rnvisions, hn said, am Key Bank has already implemcntml the focused on changing tlw p,~rception of' du charge nationwide. local bank officials l.ac. which is commonly thought of for its have postponed the charge on Notre disciplinary content. Dame accounts until July so that it will "Thorn's a lot ol' usdul things hnsidPs not interfere with the academic calen­discipline that am in du Lac," said dar. Spnaknr. 
"If I wore a student !next term!. I'd Im Despite thn changns in strurturn, how­prolty upset if' the bank in the bascnwnt nvor, the rnsolulion callnd for no contPnt of LaFortune startnd charging me thrnn changes, asidn from tlw addition of' a lnl­dollars a month. just because of its loca­l11r from Univnrsily prnsidPnt Father tion," said Cesaro, l\clward Malloy. 
Becaus(~ qunstions remain about tho "II' it's not a disciplinn hook, tlwn Lim duration of' Key Bank ·s lease for its spacn vir.e presidnnt of Studc111t Af'f1tirs in LaFortune. Keough senator Brian shouldn't be the first l1ittnr in tlrnrn," O'Dunoghue rncomnrnnded that the reso­said Speaknr. lution be sent back to cornmitten for fur­Studm1t body presidrrnt Micah Murphy ther rnsnarch. said future rnsolutions will also address 
After the meeting, senators indical!id the issun of' changing Urn perception of' that they have also mulled over other thn book. options, including sending an informa­'Tm advocating even changing tlw tional supplem1rnt to the Board of name of it hack lo tho 'Student Trustees. They have also discussed start­Handbook' or something," said Murphy. ing a grassroots movement during fresh­The resolution was passed unanimous­man orientation to discourage students ly. 



Laura Petelle 
Assistant Managing Editor 

The Observer• INSIDE Thursday, April 22, 1999 






utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Student impact of Harvard-Radcliffe merger unclear 
CAMBRIDGE. Mass. 

Assistant dean of the College Karen Avery thought she would be receiving just one more woman in her life this week -a baby girl that she delivered on schedule Monday. 
But with the end of Radcliffe's days as a college, Avery, who is n\sponsible for co-nducational issuPs at Harvard, ended up with more than 3,000 new charges. 
Along with other administrators in University Hall, Avery must ensure that Harvard's decision to merge the 120-year-old institution will not adversely affect undergraduate women who have come to rely on Radclrffo for spring break extern­ships, summer traveling fellowships and a seal on their diploma. 
13ut while pledging to continue to-­serve the needs of females on r.am­pus. Harvard and Radcliffe officials 
¦ UN!VERSffV Of 1\1!:BRASl<A Faculty vote on hair discrimination 
LINCOLN, Neb. 
The faculty of the University of Nebra'ika College of Law voted down a motion Tuesday that would have affirmed the College's compliance with the University's nondiscrimina­tion policy. The motion, offered by professor John Snowden and four other professors, was a response to county attor­ney Gary Lacey's decision to bar third-year student Thayne Glenn from a prosecutorial clinic because of the length of his hair. The proposal would have affirmed that the College follows the University's non-discrimination policy, which includes hair length. Only the motion's five sponsors voted for the proposal, which would have forced the College to withdraw from programs that discriminate against stu­dents. John Snowden said the vote sent a message that the College does discriminate. Nancy Hapoport, Law College dean, said that the motion's defeat did not mean that the faculty was not concerned with the issue of discrimination. 
¦ UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN Professor speaks on teen violence 
MADISON. Wis. 
As the reports of the killings in Littleton, Colo., trickled in 
throughout the day Tuesday, one local expert commented on 
the shootings and the role media violence may have played 
in the incident. Joanne Cantor. a UW-Madison professor of 
communication arts and expert on the effect violence in the 
media has on children, has recently released a book on the 
subject. According to Cantor, the images children see on 
television and in the movies can have significant impacts on 
their behavior. "Children are affected by what they watch," 
she said. "There's a lot of research that shows that kids who 
arc repeatedly exposed to violence ... the way it usually is on 
television become less sensitive to thfl negative effects of vio­
lence." However, Cantor emphasized that media violence 
will normally not provoke well-adjusted children to violent 
behavior. She said the individuals responsible for incidents 
like Tuesday's shootings "have a lot of problems." 
¦ LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
Ac,uWealher~forecast for d.iytime condition, and high tempcralllres 

L  
Thursday  Q, 64  47  
Friday  ~  63  52  
Saturday  ~'  60  43  
Sunday  ~  59  44  
Monday  p~  60  44  
t . .l'·,.  ,,  


9,Q,~4.f88(f ~ u 


Administrators stressed that many implications for undergraduate life were not fully determined in yester­day's agreement. 
"Some things are not at all decided or discussed, especially about undergraduates," said Mary Maples Dunn, who was named the interim head of Radcliffe Tuesday. 
All dean of the ru.cu'Ity Jeremy Knowles could promise yr.str,rday 
was that the undPrgraduate pro­grams Radcliffe has offered will remain unchanged next year. 
But acrording to dean of the col­lege Harry Lewis, Harvard is not likely to make an exception to its non-discrimination policy for the single-sex programs. 
"Whatever happens, the College will maintain its principle that all Ilarvard programs should be opr.n to all Harvard students without regard lo their gender," Lewis said. 
'Tm sure there will be a transition period where tho implications of this agreement with Radcliffe will hav1\ to be worked out," he added. 
llarvard and Hadclif'fe officials expressed differing opinions yesLPr­day about whether Harvard. which receives money from the govern­ment, would be legally permitted to administer single-sex programs under federal law. 

¦ UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN 
Students run Naked Mile 
ANN AHBOH, Mich. 

Crowding apartment balconies, clinging to street lamp­posts and lilling campus sidewalks, about 20,000 peoplo turned out last night to witness tlrn Naked Mile -an annual tradition that celebrates the last day of classes. University spokesperson Julie Petmson said Ann Arbor Police Department officials said an estimated 500 University students and area residents ran naked through campus. The Department of Public Safety mado 21 arrests for minor in possession of' alcohol infractions and other citations, including indecent exposurn and public urination, Peterson said. Peterson said of those arrests, four University students were given minor in possession of alcohol citations. According to DPS reports, a 40 year-old man was arrestod for masturbat­ing in public. ''I'm relieved we had no major mishaps," she said. 
¦ YALE UN!VERSffY Shootings cause cancellation of show 
PRINCETON, N . .I. 

Amid Tuesday's frantic preparations for "Crisis in Kosovo: An MSNBC Town Mooting," it was easy to f'orgnt that outside the conf'inns of campus, the world was marching on. But at about 5 p.m. -less than fiv1! hours before Tom Brokaw was scheduled to broadcast livo from Yale -network executives canceled the event. Heports of shootings in a Littleton, Colo., high school, prompted MSNBC to shift its coverage, explained "Town Mooting" executive producer Kathy Sciere just minutes after informing her crew of the cancellation. "MSNBC has a policy of staying on breaking nows," she said. "IThn shootings are] a breaking news story, and it looks lik1!s it's going to go on into the night." Initially, the show's producers and crew discussed the possibility of restruc­turing the panel for a discussion on violenco in America's schools. 
¦ i'ilAT!Oi'JAl WEATHEB 

The AccuWeather® forecast for noon:rhursday, Apr. 22. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day 
<Cl 1999 AccuWeathar, 111(:, COLD WARM ::iTATIONARY 
PtBUUre; ~ 
CD (!!; . . D 1::-:::1 D r::.:: I . ·¼%14) 4!'4\.4> 
High Low Showers Rain T-storma Flurries Snow Ice sunny P~~udy Cloudy 
Via As~oaated Press 
Atlanta 76 57 Houston 85 68 New Orleans 81 78 Baltimore 61 43 Las Vegas 90 63 New York 55 45 Boston 53 44 Louisville 63 49 San Francisco 64 51 Chicago 53 37 Memphis 80 61 Wilmington 62 50
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow tee Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 

Denver 44 31 Miami 84 69 York 59 43
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 

Thursday, April 22, 1999 The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Rabinovich: Peace in Middle East still distant 
l\y MAUREEN SMITHE 

NL•w~ Writer 
The t\rah-lsraoli rolationship is twof'old, eomprisnd of both co1111ict and pnacrnnaking olc­m,•n!s. snid llarnnr H1thi1wvich. rornwr lsranli ambassador to llrn ll11it1•d Statns, in a lecturn Wt>chwsday. 
Sponsored by Uw theology !ll'parl11w11t and the ,ltiwish Fi>rl1•ralion ol' thn S1. .Jost>ph Valil'Y. tile lnd11n\ gavP ll11bini,vid1 a d111ncn t.o discuss tlw 011g11i11g pPat'o pro1·,iss in lhP MiddlH l•:ast in dl'lail. 
"i\ 1'11ll-t'IPdg1·d i\rnh-lsr,wli rn1111irt hP~ll!l with llw War or 11)-lX, anti llw l)P/ll'P jHOl'.('SS !J,.gan in IIJ7'.{ in tlw al'tPrlllalh of tlw Octolwr War," llabinovid1 Pxplainnd. 
111' t!Pst·rihNI thl' co11flirl hPl\\'t'l'n th1· ;\rails and th,· lsral'lis as one of "historir hag­gagp_" 
llw prnhlP.ms 1wrsisli11g in 

tho Middln East slem from a lack of' understanding on both sidHs, Habinovich said. The ,kws thought thoy had a his­toric and divinn right to tlrn land. 
"lsnwlis worn a foniign implant," Im said. "And in the J\rah aud Muslim areas. Jows hnd IHI right lo hr. there. The Arabs c1Juld not accnpt it." 
In onlcr to rmnndy lhn silua­Lion. lsnwlis had to make n painl'ul and visible concession, "llw southern lip of Israel." llabinovkh said. 
Tlw Israelis WPn1 angcrnd 
upon turning over the lund, and tlwy qu,\stionnd thn nncns­silv for such a surrnndm. 
llow1\Vt'r, al'l.1·r war in 1967. and an Israeli sucrnss. "Israel ,·oultl finally makn concessions in ~l~P Sinai." Hahinovich said. "Six v1\ars latPr, in the I'J7:3 1wac<1 talks, lhosB l'l11rne11ts WPn' brought to µIan." 
!lownv1ir. any mot.ions 
toward peace were suspended in 1 CJ81. Mter 10 yea1·s. tho process was revived because of three (ilernents: 
"Tho enrl of the C:olrl War and the removal of the Cold War frDm the Middle East.: the Culf war and the fact that Saddam lluss11in. who was a major element in the Arab world, was def!iated by the US; and, how the Bush administra­tion tril'll ror the nrst li llH' to resolve this conf'lir.1," Habinovich said. 
Habinovich participator! first­hand in the pcacn processes ol' thn 1IJIJOs during "it.s good y1n1rs from I 9'>3-199()," hn said. 
"/\ historic compromisci was rnachod wilh Israeli and l'alnslinian nationalism. Tim PLO rPrognizcd lsranl as a sov­c rP ig 11. J11wish stale in Lhc Middlii East," lw said. "/\ large degrne ol' nationalism was allow<1d in the Middle East as llrn conflict moved towards res­olution." 

11abinovich was c1uick to point out the dark sidns Lo the ronslantly changing pnaee process. most prominently "tnrrorism and vinlcncc.'' Some fundamentalist Arab groups and two unrnlated lsranli attacks aimed to put an end to the p11ace process, Im said. 
"It was a grudging peac(i process f'or Arabs. It was not pcacn they pursued with any pnssion," llabinovich stated. 
With att11mpts to rnsnlvn con­f'!i cts, "Netanyahu rose to power in 1()lJh bceatisn ho promisPd peace with security. Ile would make kss conct>s· sions, if anv. Lo tlw other sicl11," Habinri,·icl1 said. "lie did slow down llrn peace process almost lo the point. of flxlinction." 
Habinovich discussed lhn outlook for the Middle East and the )\l·ab-!sracli rnnflict. On May 4, a five-year interim pnri­
od comHs to an encl. 
"If there is still no agrnn­menl, i\raf'al could proceed with a unilateral dnclaration ol' inr!Ppr.ndnnce. llownvPr, that is nol going to happnn lwcausn morn time is rrnccssary and it is not to J\raf'at's advantage," Im said. 
Additionally. May 17. tlw date of lsr.wl's nl1:clions. is particularly crucial. 
"Tim lsr,wli nll't:tions arl' olforing lwo priucipln cancli­dalns who argun ovnr snvnral issuns. ;\ dominant issun gov­erning llw d«>ction is thn rda­tionship with l'alcstinians nnd Lim f'uturn of' tlw Wost Bank," Habinovich nxplai1Wd. 
Ha b in o v i c h .sf)<' m <' d JW s­simistic about a quick rnsolu­tion to thn !i0-yl'ar-long proil­
fpms. 
"The /\rub-lsra1di pracn process is liknly to g1innrnU! atlnntion and Iii! hradlinns," lw said. 


Storyteller relates experiences of Vietnam at?d pacifism 
By Rl!TI I SNELL Knapp recounted his own lifo growing Knapp :mid he realized the irnporlarn..:Ji limy wern al'Lnr 1111\, and I wantncl Lo Nrw, Wrirer _____ up in a non-vi()lent family in which there of respnc:ting others ancl making violence know how to get out of it," Knapp said. was a "frn<' now of communication from against others impossible. Rather than stay and be drafted, Knapp 
/\ndrnw Knapp, a prol'nssional story children to adults; d1ildrnn were treated lie said lw thus determined that those wont to France. 11<1 actually arrivnd at llw l1•!11\r, spokP to a group of' Saint Mary's like adults," he said. These values con-in charge of the Vietnam War were disre-same timn the U.S. and the Vi11tnames<' hislory stud1·nls about drugs, Vi11tnam tributed to his attitudes toward the spcctful. signed the pnace agrnemont in .January and political activism in tlw I W10s and Vietnam war. "There were really two sides of the coin 197:~. I !J70s \'Vmhwsdav. In 1965, the Vietnam War became a [in the l960sl," Knapp said, "the drug Knapp movnd to Anginrs and br!camP 
01111 in n long lirn~ or padlisls. no mPm­topic or family discussion. When Knapp war and the Vietnam War, and many involved with French revolutionaries. lwr or Knapp's !iunily has fought in a war turned 16, he rngistnrncl for the draft as people used drugs to escape the war." With tlrn Fnmch Underground. he helped sinni llw I (i00s. llis grandfathnr volun­required by law. When Knapp graduated from high plan a demonstration against a new tm•n•d in World War l as a doctor, but ho "I didn't exactly know what J was school in 1972, he received a draft num-mandatory draft law and blockml the talk1!d ahout tlw gas and how the llesh doing. but I folt bad." he says. bcr of 100. main highway from Angiers Lo Paris for would fall off tlw bones. As a musician in high school. Knapp "I decided I wasn't going to be drafted four to five hours. 
"I grPw up sn1~king understanding and was afforded morn freedom in social and hitch-hiked to Canada," he said. "If they had known I was an American, 1io11violt111cc." Knapp said. "J\nd I cam11 protestations. llowever, he was stopped at the bor-in those protests, they would have put me into a linn of war rnsistors. I get to sprnad "!My friends and II represented a revo-der. in prison and thrown away the key," it on furllwr, as J'ar as I can sprrmcl iL" lution," h11 said. "I didn't know what to do. I felt like Knapp said. 
Calling all those interested in 



Diversity 
on campus 
The Multicultural Executive Council is looking for new members. 
5p=orcd ey. 
?>fuft1Cuirnmf ·£,vcutivt Coon,;d 

Applications are available in the Student Activities Office, 315 LaFortune and are due back to this office by April 22, 1999, 
I 
' 
'I 
' 
i I 
[ 
I I 
I t 
I j 
-----------------------------------------------------~~
. 
page 4 The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, April 22, 1999 

Dalloway's 
continued from page 1 
place on the campus, but we understand the reasons behind the decision [to tear the building down]. I am looking forward to the new location next year." 
In other BOG news: 
•Student Activities Board coordinator Janet Horvath reminded evervone that SMCTostal begins today at 3 p.m. Some of the events planned inclu.de canoe races, laser tag, a bungee run and a showing of "Armageddon" on the library 
green. 
•Residence Hall Association is holding hall elections today for both Le Mans and H.egina Hall Councils. One ticket is running for each and students can vote at all meals in the dining hall. 
Grant helps reading center 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY Saint Mary's Editor 
Fifteen Saint Mary's education majors rnceived a $3,000 Indiana Department of Education grant intended to l'urther their education of teaching reading skills. 
The students used the money to fund improvements to a third-and fourth-grade reading center at South Bend's Darden Elementary School 
"We used the money mainly for a lot of books to till up the cupboards in the reading center. We bought a lot of teaching materials and software such as CD-HOMs with programs for phonics and to help students create stories." said senior Ma1·y Hubert. 
As a final girt to reading cPnfor stu­dents, the Saint Mary's students pre­sented each child with a book. 
"We received so much support from Darden Elementary School when we said that we wanted to use the grant to benefit the reading center. They were very excited," said Galassi. 
Saint Mary's students got a sense of accomplishment from receiving the grant. 
''I'm rAally pleased with the accom­plishments of the education majors and how all the hard work and dedi­cation has paid <?!J," said senior edu­cation major P. Colleen Nugent. "I was glad to see Saint Mary's students recognized for all their hard work." 
Before submitting a proposal for the grant in February. the students got recommendation letters from Darden teachers and compiled a bud­get detailing the necessity for the funds. 
"The people from the Indiana Department of Education were very impressed with what we submitted since it was over 20 pages," said senior education major Kelly Galassi. "The proposal was very complex, very detailed and very complicated." 
Celebrate ~arth .J:lq.y. 
Recycle I Qhs.,f,: 


Kosovo teach-in focuses on Serbian nationalism 
ByJOSHUA BOURGEOIS 
News Writer 
"What we have in the Baltic has the possi­bility of extrapolating into something bigger than the current situation and more than a violation of human rights," said Father Patrick Gaffney, chairman of the anthropol­ogy department. 
Gaffney and Jihad Ahmad, a Notre Dame graduate student, led a discussion with Notre Dame students at the Center for Social Concerns on Wednesday regarding the his­tory of the Serbian national identity and its effect on the current situation in Kosovo. 
Gaffney stated that the history of the development of the Serbian identity is a dimension· that has been understudied because it is difficult to understand. 
"This component is hard to conceptualize and too hard for the media to convey," said Gaffney. 
"The central moment in tho development of the Serbian national identity is a battle in 1389 involving the Orthodox Christians and the Turks." said Gaffney_ "This is why Kosovo is sacred territory to them !the Serbs!." 
However, this battle was buril'd in history until the 1850s when a Serbian poet wrot~i an epic poem entitled "Mountain Wreath" about this battle to promote national spirit As a result, this bat1.le was mythologized, and the Serbian national identity was empowered. 
Gaffney also referred to the change in boundaries throughout the world. 
"The new boundaries are not ideological. They are religious-based. According to Samuel Huntington, an influential political scientist from Harvard, the Islamic borders are very bloody," said Gaffney. 
The tension the Serbs had with the Muslims is evident in the national poem "Mountain Wreath." In the poem, the Serbs lose the hatlle in 1389 because a Serb that became Muslim betrayed them. Because of this symbolic betrayal in the poem, the Serbs categorize any Bosnian-Muslim, or regional Muslim, as a Serb who has betrayed his or her people. 
After Gaffney discussed the history and national identity of the Serbs, Ahmad lec­tured on the current situation in Kosovo, the violation of human rights, and what should be dmw. 
"This major clash occurs because of national identity, not religion. It is a situa­tion where the one who has the power wants to continue having that power," said Ahmad. 
Ahmad also said that the international community has an interest in protecting tlrn Albanian refugePs because their basic human rights arc being violated and the whole world is watching the tragic inhu­mane situation as it takes place. 
"The United States has an interest in this situation because of pressure from the international world and the peace talks have failed," said Ahmad, "Purthermore, the United States has an interest in that part ol' tho country since the collapse of the USSH. They havn a microscope 011 that part of' the world and want to promote democracy." 
Ahmad also oxplainr.d that the Serbs' goals are to keep the media and diplo­mats out ol' the situation and chase the Albanians out of llrnir homes. 
"After chasing tlrnm out of thnir homes, film Serbs) set fire lo thnir homes, rape the Albanian women in front of' the chil­dren and men and kill the mfln," said Ahmad on the atrocities. 
Ahmad urged all people to support all efforts that attempt to help the rdugen women and children and educatn other peoplP-on the situation. 
"Also, if you have the time, join any missionary efforts in the area," said llw graduate student. 

Financial Advisors 

HELP PEOPLE RE I IRE COMFORTABLY AND YOU WILL TOO 
Everyone wants a comfortable retirement. That's what makes being an American Express financial advisor such a valuable profession. For over 100 years, we've been helping our clients and our advisors achieve their financial goals. If you're looking for a challenging new career that offers independence and the opportunity for unlimited growth potential, plan on attending a career introduction meeting: 
Thursday, April 29, 1999 3:00 -5:00 p.m. 108 DeBartolo Hall 

or send your resume to: 
Chicagoland Area: Tina Tobye, Recruiter 280 East 90th Drive Merrillville, IN 46410 Phone: (219) 769-6660 Fax (219) 769-0810 South Bend Area: Kristi Kovach. Recruiter 401 East Colfax Suite 107 South Bend, IN 46617 Phone: (219) 232-0881 Fax (219) 233-0144 

,: 
r 
·.,; 
~ 
Thursday, April 22, l 999 
¦ VJOIH.D Nnr.;~ r ~IEFS 
Greek officer refuses service 
ATIIENS 
/\ c;n•Pk navy offit'<'I' who rnf'us1'd to par­lif'ip11 tP in a N/\TO mission in prol!'st ol' tlw airslrikt•s against Yugosl,ivia was s1·11tc1w,,d to l 1/2 y1•11rs i11 pl"ison by a military 1·ourl 1v\'Pd1wsday. lllPdia n•porls said. l.l. Marinos Bilsoudis. :a,. was dPLainPd last WPPk afLPr n•l'11si11g to hoard thP navy <IPstroyPr T!wmist."klPs, which st•I sail to _join Ni\TO f11r1·Ps i11 the• Atlriulic St',t. Tlw ships art'n'L dir1•1·1lv involvPd in lhP attad.s on Yugosl;1via. Hilsoudis has the riglil Lo ilflpl'al 1111' SPIH1•nrP, whirl1 was susp1n1dPd l'"r thrP«' y<'ars SpPakin~ in rnurt, Hitsoudis s,tid 111• had inl'ornwd his superior officl'r and ,\rl'libislmp Christodoulos. kach•r of' llw (;ret•k Ortlwd11x Churd1, of' his dc-<·ision. "I c·anrwt plac·c• th1i law of (;od undor tlw laws of pPoplP." lol'al lllPdia quotnl hi111 as say­i11g. 
Japan waives debts 
TOKYO 
.Japan plans to waivP its loans to 41 impovPrishPd rountri1•s as part of !'!Torts among dPvPlopcd nalions to alleviate tlrn third w11rld dl'lll burdPn, a Financ1\ Ministry of'licial said WPcllll!Sday . .lapannse Finance 1vlinistPI' Kiichi Miyazawa inlf\mls to inform his (;rotrp of SPwm countt1rparls of llw plan whPn Jui mP1'ts tlwm on Monday. said tlrn ol'licial. who spokn on condition of anonymi­ty . .lapa11, !111• world's largest provider of /\SSOCII\TEIJ PIIESS Slobodan Milosevic's ruling Socialist ingly Albanian population. Official ll11vP!opnwnt !\id loans. carrins Party and eight broadcast stations. Apaches am among Lim most lethal about $7.~2 billion in debts owed by tlrn BELGRADE one of them owned by Milosevic's tank-killers in the NJ\TO arsenal, each world's potirl'sl countries. Tokyo has rnsist­With NATO missiles striking daughter. A senior Yugoslav official armed with 16 llullfire missilns. 70 Nl mils to l'orgiw tlrn d1\bt, on Lim grounds Belgrade by night and day, the first called the strikes part of a "genocidal mm rockets and a 30 mm cannon that that .Japan's burdPn was high11r than that of batch of Apache attack helicopters !lying circus" perpetrated by NATO. fires 625 rounds per minute. other dPvdopPd nations. But Japa11Ps11 offi­touched down in Albania on flours later, NATO launched a rare Their use in combat would also cials havP hePn working on a plan ahead of Wednesday as the Western allies daytime strike in the capital area. mark the U.S. Army's nntry into a con­llw .lurw summit of c;.7 nations in intensified their air campaign against severely damaging a railway bridge llict which has been waged by the Air (;prrnany, whPrP lPadcrs hopc to agrnc Yugoslavia. over the Sava Hiver a few miles west Force and Navy. upon a dcibt 1·ann1!1ation strategy l'or third The arrival of the long-awaited U.S. of Belgrade. "There's of course risk to us," J\rmy world ('.ou ntriPs. Lim official said. anti-tank helicopters represents a sig­The state news agency Tanjug said Capt. Mark Ardnn of Washington, 
nificant boost in NATO's capability to the missiles hit a compound near the D.C., said in the J\lbanian capital.French store moves models destroy tanks and troops of Yugoslav Kosovo town of Djakovica containing Tirana. "But the risks to tho Snrbs. I forces blamed for atrocities against Serb refugees from fighting this would say, are great." PARIS Kosovo Albanian civilians. It wasn't decade in Bosnia and Croatia, killing The Apaches arc expected to be 
With its erotic and revealing adverlise­known when the helicopters would go at least 10 people and injuring 16. used initially against Serb targets in nwnts for 1•wrything from cars to moistur­into action. There was no way to independently southwestern Kosovo. Ethnic Albanian izer to yogurt, Franc1! is not a country shy NATO spokesman Jamie Shea said verify the report. rebels fighting for an independent ahot1l displaying tlw fnmalc form. But for tlrn alliance, bolstered by extra air­The strikes near Belgrade and the Kosovo have regrouped thnrn af't11r som(• wo1111•11. tlw sight of' models in lacy craft, is hitting double the number of arrival of the Apache helicopters sig­Serbs drove I.Imm from many of their und1wwnar applying nail polish in tlrn win­targets it struck during the first two na led the North Atlantic Treaty traditional strongholds. dows ol' a Paris clqrnrlmnnt store wnnt too weeks of the campaign, now entering Organization's resolve to escalate the International monitors said 18 far. On Wt~d,wsciay. Gal1,rins Lafayette was its lifth week. conl'lict until Milosevic accepts a rebels were wounded and two kil111d forTPd to bring its lingPrin in from the cold. Early Wednesday, NJ\TO missiles Western-dictated peace plan for in a second straight day of heavy TIH' ston' said it was moving its display slammed into a high-rise building Kosovo. a province or Yugoslavia's lighting W11dnesday in southwnstnrn inside -but not ranc!'ling it -due lo an which includes offices of President republic Serbia with an overwhelm-Kosovo near the Albanian bord11r. "orclwstrat('d campaign" against it. In a stale11lt'nt. LIH• store said its display. launrlwd /\pril 13 to honor the "Festival of l.ingeriP," had bcin11 completely tastnf'ul. It 

CIA accuses China of espionage 
ternwd tlw 1w1•11t not an ad campaign. as manv saw it, but a "ttrnatrical presnnta­
ASSOCIAThll PHHSS ated its program to devel-·accused his administration labs.... We took too long to
lion.;. 
op future nuc.lea.r of being lax in responding find out what was going on WASHINGTON weapons," according to a to the FBI's initial con­and we st.ill don't know 

Through aggressive spy­declassified version of the cerns in 1995. The issue how deep and wide thn ing, China obtained classi­assessment. followed on the heels of problem is." f'ied information on a vari• But the intelligence team allegations that the admin­Rep. Norm Dkks. D­
Dow 

ety of U.S. nuclear s aid China also gained istration promoted com­Wash.. ranking Democrat 750.59 
AI\IEX: 
weapons. making it possi­some valuable weapons mercial satellite exports on the House Intelligence
JONES 
+13.61 
ble for Beijing to modern­information in open venues that allowed Beijing to Committee, said that while 
N:isd:iq: 
ize its arsenal in the next such as public conferences improve its ballistic mis-the report, "dnmonstrntos 
2489.08 
few years. U.S. intelligence and scientific exchanges. siles. 11 terrible intelligence fail­
t7<J..14 
officials told Congress on President Clinton, who Senate Intelligence ure" by the United States,
NYSE: 
Wednesday. ·· was briefed on the findings. Committee Chairman the long-term irncurlty
6J3.71





10rr2 
+ 12.67 
In a long-awaited dam• Wodnosday, ordered a.' Richard Shelby said the implications are less clear. S&P 500: 
age as.sessment. adminis­review to assess potential briefing Wednesday made "The Chinese still have 1.U6.l2 
tration officials disclosed vulnerability to espionage it clear that Chinese spying not yet been ttble to
Composite
+29.95 
Volumt': 
for the first time that beyond the U.S. nuclear continued into the Clinton demonstrate that they've
+ 132.87 ')8-1,900,000 
China gathered classified weapons laboratories. administration, something taken advantage of it. And 
information not just on the "Measures to protect that the president in the only time will tell." Dieks
VOlUME lEADERS 
W-88 warhead and the sensitive nuclear weapons past has denied knowledge said.
rn.w1·,u:i1~ llftill '!11·U6;btSit SS.i6&~ l'Blf&;; 
\1Wll\l!'t()l'rn,,o· M-.1-1 1..ift -12)0 tt2.VU 
neutron bomb but on "sev­information must be con-' of. On13 of the asstissment 
l 1\lllM'I. lll\U.;'\ t'llN ,'\'},'J-1, ·H ..1!21 12.SU ,Ml.lti1,-..'ltr,.,;( ,\t'l +I I 12 -.. J-l,,1125 IHlkl 
eral" modern LJ.S. war~ stantly serutlniz~d;~ "lt confirms my worst team's conclusions was 
l~rtl.(:\lk!' ,.._re . ,LtZ +1..H715 ~R.•H Pl I.I l.OMl'HI t k HIU +U.hb 
+!l.25l~ .Ht44 
heads. Cllnton said in a, stateme:~t'., ,l'et~rs," Shelby, R•Ala.. said Lhat Chinn has not yet
1 0,11•.. \tl (·l i\tJ;uru ( 'J1( ~ + l .114 .,._2fi00 24.H 01(,\l 11. l'ORI' ()'l{('I. +:i.74 -+0,H7QO 24.12 
· "China obttiined.· by espj.. · Chinese espion11g,r,11t, .of the demage assessment. deployed any W(Japons
t.l\t "() S\'!\'l'I.M, C\Ul •b 2K .+tdll'J,, I07,Y4 1\Mli~.~ IN(' I\MllN -1,2; 
.rioooo 64.00 
onage classified U:S. U;S. weapons labs dete!.: ~we madeJt easy for the based on stolen U.S. tech­
n I \ATI 11.rn:.,\ l">ATA +S1.l-l6 -t0.6117 z.zz 
nuclear weapons informa­· oped into a political storm Chinese because of weak nology but may be devel• tion that probably acceler-for Clinton as Republtts.ns security at our national oping them. 

AFP Pholo 

Firefighters attempt to save what is left of the building that houses the SPS-Socialist Party of Serbia after NATO air strikes in New Belgrade early Wednesday. 

NATO jets strike Belgrade buildings 
page 6 The Observer• INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, April 22, 1999 
¦ JAMAICA 
Rioters kill six while protesting new tax 
Associated Press 
KINGSTON 
Jamaicans blockert major roads wilh burning barricades of tires and furniture on Wednesday. defying police who fired warn­ing shots and tear gas. At least six people have been n~ported killt>d 
Violent protests have swept the Caribbean island since the gov­ernment announced $100 million in new taxes on Friday. But Primo Minister P.J. Patterson indicated late Wednesday that his government is ready to back down from a 30 percent hike in f'w1l prices. 
In Parliament, Patterson named a chairman to a special commit­tee that Im said could recommend "a rollback" of' $100 million in now laxes -most of which was to come from the gas price hike. 
The announcement appeared likely to calm the unrest, which prompted several airlines and three cruise ships to canuil trips to Jamaica on Wed1rnsday. 
The last lwo governments to significantly raise gas prices foll. and thern were deadly gas price riots in 1979 and 1985. 
A conciliatory PattPrson seemed SC't on a swift rnsponsr., saying the corrnniltee should make ils recommendations to the govcrn­m1\nt by Sunday so that they can be considered at the woekly Cabinet meeting Monday. 
In Kingston late Tuesday and early Wednesday, demonstrators set four shops ablaze and looters smashed other businesses, dr.fy­ing a new curfew that tho government had imposed. 
Some parts of the island suffered blackouts and telephone prob­lems. 
There appeared to be some hope thal the riots might be dying down by late Wednesday. An afternoon march in Kingston called by the opposition Jamaica Labor Party was peaceful. 
"The gas tax will be a joke compared to the money we are going to lose in tourism." resort owner Gordon Stewart said. 
There was concern that the violent outbreak could further hurt tourism, Jamaica's most important industry. Officials have been concerned all year about increasing violence and a recent series of attacks on tourists. Jamaica attracts nearly 2 million tourists year­ly. mainly from the United States. 
The government had argued the taxes are needed to help restore the lost money of some 2 million depositors in failed banks, 500,000 policyholders in collapsed insurance companies and 55,000 pensioners. 
Before Patterson's statement on taxes late Wednesday, National Democratic Movement president Bruce Golding said the leader "has obviously not heard the cries of the people." 
Underscoring his claim, protesters blocked most entrances to the capital at midday Wednesday. 
At the main western entry to Kingston, protesters hurled rocks at cars that tried to get through burning barricades that blocked the four-lane highway. 
"Go home!" they yelled, hurling bottles onto the road to puncture car tires. 
Moving out? Use Observer Classifieds. 

~~ ?eaitt<:d ·99 
A fundraising event at Saint Joseph's High School to 
support the efforts of h.o.p.e., a service group whose 
goal is to help other people endure. 
GUEST AUTHORS 
Sunday, April 25: Valerie Sayers author of Brain Fever, The Distance Between Us, Who Do You Love, How I Got Him Back. and Due East. 
Monday, April 26: Charlie Adams author of Travels with Charlie Tuesday. April 27: William Elliott Hazelgrove author of Ripples, Tobacco Sticks and Mica's Highway 
Wednesday, April 28: Julie Herrick White author of Friends from the Other Side, a poetry chap­book; Steubenville, a short poem sequence; and Uncle Gust and the Temple of Healing, a short fiction collection. 
Admission is $20 for the series includes coffee mug and all the coffee you can drink!'!) or $7 per session. 
¦ Kosovo 






OrthotloX. support Serbs 
ln Greece, the church for 

y9ar~ spoke. about unwanted 
BUCHAREST, I\otna.rila foreign meddling in the region. 
lo tire West, the plight of NATO attacks merely con-
hundreds 6f thousands 'of• firrp.~d its theories. Archbishop 
Kosovar refugees.hasfort$£l(]c. Chrlstodoulos of Greece has 
pubUc uutr&ge. out for,-bltnfled NATO and not t.he 
Yugoslavia's Orthodox ll!f}!$'h" Sorb.s for the plight of the 
bors, it .is the NATO bombs\ .r:efttgees, calling alliance 
raining down on Se~b~ thaf bo.rph.ers 0 thopawns ofSatan." 
nave stirrcA. tho mi>stSl'tnP:a,; . F'o;i' m.reJhan a century, 
thy ,,,_and anger. .l3~lkan nations have felt like !tnrna,rt·Jti, •..... ~µJ . . !'trid lldrdShips, inJus­
M4cedo11.ta.an.p yr$~9EJ; ~.· tlie whims of past 
to SOffiO OX:te:nt Str ... . . •·.·· ... 13~i'\l)~ SU]Jerpowers are 
~·· tlesf,tffor fuHa:r;i;ertat1 \yhyep illto)Mir history. The 
the west; ~n.d .&n-iv1;1rsii1 ~11.gJl(o~ the Kosovo refugees 
the· NATO air attacks Whi d:~esllot strike so deop a chord 
some soe a.s threatenipg the~t ina.s itdoes in the West. 
regional stability. . .•... ·.•. · L1Jcal media, which have 
All four have, or "'7f.lll.t\ r:M'lectrid such one-sidedness, 
strong ties With the We$(a.n<l hav,e]1elped shape such atti­
NATO. But while theirgovern;, ·· tvdes1 . ments openly or tacitlysuppj'ltt lti n.omania and Bulgaria. 
alliance actions . against the crisis is seen as a Western 
Yugoslavia, their people resent plottojustit'y the bombing and 
perceived meddling by su{;h Stit'hatred against the Serbian 
far away countries as the leadership. 
United States. ''Why doesn't the Romanian 
"The idea of sovereignty fa. media have any reporters cov­
very precious," said Dan ering the refugees?" asked 
Ciachir, a Romanian cornmeiJ~ · prosWestern commentator 
tator. Gabriel .Uiceanu. He argues 
Nationalism an() r•eligion , the eovArage hM prompted 
also make for a vol:itng ti1t~, antifNATO sentiment and is 
Being prerlo111ina110y .. Jeopa.rdizing the country's 
Orthodox, many Balk~tlpeopl~/-future as a democracy. 
feel a church-inspirl:ld · tit Vvhile.Western newspapers 
With the Serbs, ·. ···· ·· 1.1.de.n with stories about 
ln fofin~flloin~1.10,i~t .. · A.Jbanlans suffering
fries, th~ (:httrch h~s• ies ··at· tho hands of 
r:uttfonali£:t. sentJ s~c;ui::ity forces, East 
attract p .· llack n media·tend. to focus 
Many c ' Jeade'r eloprpenl~ affecting 
Balka. tes;·whUe. corre­
aricl' . . estories .about
heel) ombed. 
<_f1.~n.c.··_,_•. mari.ia.h television 
'0J:Oll.clc4st Aaac ·. doc-
week, cy aboµt ethnic cleans­>a.rcJ:i•· · osovothisweek, there oftha.tbeU ijt¼)! alls detnandlng it be confli.cf detert9rate'd'cl. off from irate viewers extetria.liriterveritfon. · · believed. the show was a 
c)~~J::( >= 

result of WostArn propaganda. 
In Greece, where daily 
protest rallies are held, many 
news broadcasts regularly 
condemn NATO. But they are 
unsure of how to explain the 
ref'ugees, oft.en blaming 
airstrikcs for the oxodus even 
as their NATO-member gov­
ernment accuses the Serbs. 
Fears the West may satisfy ethnic Albanian demands for autonomy or independence in Kosovo also croate concerns over similar movements ·emerging in other states with 
rni.nority groups. 
Macedonia, with a delicate 
ethnic balance of Albanians 
and Slavs, worries it could fall 
apart because of the influx of 
more than 100,000 refugees. 
NATO forces there are seen 
both as a safeguard and a 
threat to its very existence. 
But for all the public outcry. 
none of the countries has so 
far crossed NATO. 
llomania's government is 
waiting for parliamentary 
approval later this week to 
give NATO unlimited access to 
its airspace for the bombing 
campaign. 
Bulgaria is waiting for simi• 
lar approval and its prime 
minister, Ivan Kostov, told 
reporters at NATO headquar­
ters that Bulgaria "fully sup­
ports" the use of force in 
Kosovo. 
"Greece has a double identi­
ty. It is a European country. 
which participates in the 
European Union and NATO. It 
is also a Balkan country," 
Greek Premier Costas Simitis 
said Wednesday in an address 
to the Council of Foreign 
Relations in New York. "That 
means that within our 
alliances we must act accord­
ing to the decision of our 
alliances." 


SAMUEL A. VITKOSKI, 
BETA ALPHA PSI NATIONAL PRESIDENT, CONGRATULATES THE NEWLY ELECTED 
Guest authors appear nightly in the St. Joseph's High School Little Theater from 6:30 -8:30 pm. Attendees will be enter­tained with a musical prelude; a book-signing, coffee, and refreshments will also follow each author's presentation. 
Thms<lay, April 22, l999 The Observer• COLORADO SHOOTINGS page 7 
---·--·-··-·------­


Littleton copes with aftermath of shootings 
rifle and two sawPd-off shotguns elsnwhnre. 
"It. was a di f'l'p ri• nt sort oI' chaos insid11," SWJ\T Sgt. (;porgi\ llinkln said. "Thnr,• WPl'P f'irP alarms going off, stroll<' lights, l'our indrns of' walnr in tlw cafi•­tPria. We had lll'nn told tll!'n· W!ll'P bombs in barkpal'ks and tll,•rti w,in• hackpacks evl'ry­whnn.i. lt was Llw touglwst tarti• cal problem l'w, ,w,·r s1\1,11." 
Sheri IT':-; spokns 111 an StnvP Davis said :lO ,•xplosivP dnvi1·1•s had be,•11 l'ound al Col11111bi1H', in tlw killers' vPltidPs and al tlu,ir honws. 
Law Tw•sday, 1110r,i tha11 10 hours allPr tl11, shootings, a tinH' bomb blt'.W up, but 110 011P \'\as hurl. 
"Sonw of i.111,sn chwic<•s arn on timing dcwicm;, so11w arl' incc11­diary devicrn, H!ICI som,i arc pipP bombs," Sherill' .John Slorw told ABC's "(;ood Morning Auwrir.a." "Some an~ likP hand gn•nadPs that haVP got shraptwl in tlwm wrappm.l around buta1w ron­tairwrs." 
Ninn of' Llw virti111s wPn, mall' arid fom wnr<-1'1•111,dn. District Attor111•y Davn Thomas said thorn was no nvidl'IH'l' lhat tlw ki[lprs largntPd minoriti,1s, as somr studPnts rlairrn•d. Only nrw of the 1:1 vklims was black.­
" l'v1i only snnn tlH• pho• tographs, but it appears to llll' that most of t.lw victims w1•n~ victims ber.ausP o!' wlwrP tlwy wnrn at a parli('ular Li1111•, not that tlwy WPrn sought out," Thomas said. "Most of' thP vil'­tims Wl'rt' in thn library, and that's wlwrn tlwsP two 1wrsons 
Pl!dnd up....  I don't know what  
tlrn  motiv,•  was  othPr  than  
angPr."  

SixtPnn pnoph• rPmained hos­pitaliz1•d, I l in critical or snrious condition. 

Witness says gunmen sought out minorities A._soc:i,ut.•J Press 
l.lTTI.ETON, Coln. 
baiah Sho1•ls was shot in tlw IH•ad IH·1·aus!' hP was tlw 11To11g color and iu Liu• wrong placP al llw wrong linrn -a !Jla,·k 1111111 in the Col11111binn lligh Sclrnol library at 11 ::rn 
a.Ill. 
Shol'ls. 11<. who dn•amt>d of' lwroming a music l':'<P('Hlivt', was kil!Pd Tu1•sday by two srl10ol111at1is. who tlwn stood in an anid cloud of gunsmoke and marvnl!'d at tllnir grisly lw11diw11rk 
"Oh my (;ocl. Louk at this black kid's brain. Aw1iso111c. man!" tlw kill<•rs said, accord­ing to wiL1wss1is. 
"Tlwy said Limy didn't lib• niggi;rs." sophomon1 Fvan Todd, I;,, told n•port,•rs af'tnr nsrnping tl11• library. "So thny "hot him in tlw !'am." 
Sho•ds was tlw only hlu,·k p1•rson among tlw 1:l killed Tun1-tlay hy a pair of outcast dass111atPs cloak1\d in black lrcnrli coals. 
i\11th11riti1•s had not rnlnasnd !1111 nanrns or tlw victims, but Slwnls' and otlwr doaths w11rn ,·,mtirnwd WNlrwsday by fami­ly mnmhcrs. 
Although witnosses said that tlrn killPrs, Eric !larris and Dylan Kl11bold, wern gunning l'or minorilins, District Attorney Dave Thomas said them was no nvidcnc1• lo support that. 
''I've only seen the pho­tographs, but it appears to me that most or Urn victims were victims bncause ol' where Hwy wnre at a particular time, not that tlrny wnrn sought out," Thomas said. "I don't know what the motive was othnr than anger." 
Tlw only adult among the vic­tims was William "Davo" Sanders, 47, a computer teachnr and coach of thn girl's bask(itball team. 
Stud(rnts said Sanders, a grandfather of f'ive, had !wen shot twice in thn chest but n11magod to sheplrnrd students down a hallway and away from dangm. 
llli stumbled into a science class, blPccling prnt'usely and coughing blood. 
For tlrn noxt lhree hours, stu­dents covPrnd him with thdr shirts and an nmergency blan­kPt thev found in a l1rst aid kit. and th~y kept talking to him in hop1is ho would rally. 
Students said he grew cold and rt:P~;atml. 'Tm not going lo make 1t. 
Beforn turning their guns on ttwmsnlvos in thu library, 1larris and Klnbol<l roamed tfie school, shooting randomly and laughing maniacally. 
They saved tlrnir worst for 45 stud1rnts who were studying in the second-t1oor lihrary. 
The Hcv. Paul Cerclc, a min­ister from Hochester, Ind., said his granddaughter, Rachel Scolt. 17, was killed. 
Associated Press 
LITTI.ETON, Colo. 

Working around b11di1'.s slill lying wlwrn thny foll morP than a day oarli1•r. bomb squad offi­cers clrnck1~d lockers and back­packs for booby traps Wed11nsday as invPsl.igators trind to pincti tognthnr mw ol' thn d1\adli11st school mass;,crns in 
U.S. history. 
llurling bombs and blasting away with guns, two studnnts in blu.ck trench coals killed ·12 schoolmat11s and a teachPr Tunsday at Columbi11P lligh School. most ol' tht)lll in the library. 
Tlw gunml'11, Eric Harris, I 8, and Dylan Klubold, I 7, tlwn appari:rntly killnd thnmsnlvns. Orlicials w1'ro trying to rktnr­minn if' others wnre involved, and .they questiorwd the killers"parcnts and other mcm­bcn, o(' thti boys' dark group of outcasls. the "Trnnrhcoat Malia." 
Parnnts waited for morn than 24 hours after the altack until tlrny finally rncnive<l official word oJ' their childnm's fate. Not until Wednesday aftnrnoon were the first bodies nHuovnd l'rom tht> scmrn. By 7 p.m., tlw otlwr corpses all had been taken lo tho coro1wr·s ollicc. 
Investigators had lert the bod­ies in place for so long so tlrny could clrnck !'or explosives and record tlrn details of the crinw scene, which SWJ\T nwmbors described as something from "llant,i's lnli1rno." 
Many bodies wcrn sprawled on Urn floor, slumped in desks or crouched beneath tables, box,is and cubicles where they appar­ently tried to hide. Police l'ound a handgun under onn of tho killers, and a semiautomatic: 

Details emerge about killers 
1\ssociaced Press the nicest of areas. "We moved here 11 yeai·s ago becaus1! of' the LITTLETON, Colo. schools," Cohn said. "It's boen a great neighbor­
Dylan Klobold and Eric Harris hurled insults hood. Until now." at Jews, blacks and Hispanics at Columbine Cohn's son, Aaron, 15. narrmvly escaped exe­High School. Rut they REALLY hated the ath­cution Tuosday. Lying on his stomach in the letes, wlw had power and popularity -every­library, Aaron cowered as one of the masked thing they didn't. gunmen leveled a shotgun at his hMd. A few 
"All jocks stand up!" one of the attackers moments cnrlinr, a girl had jumped on Cohn's y1illed during their murderous sprefl TtH~sday. back, covnring the baseball slognu on his shirt. "We're going to kill every one ofyou." The gunman moved on and chose another vic­
They killed 13 people in the deadliest school tim. massacre in recent years. Then Klebold and A fow weeks ago, the big news at Columbine Harris turned their guns on themselves. High was pranksters putting SupergluP in all the 
A horrible as their assault on outside door locks. 
Thirteen dead after shooting rampage 
classmates was, it did not come Most cliqul's hnrc would bP out of ihe bJuo: Klobold, Harris familiar on any U.S. high and others in a band of outcasts 'ALL JOCKS STAND UP! school campus: band kids, who ca.lied themselves the WE'RE GOING TO nerds, stoncrs, skatolward• 
Trenchcoat Mafia had a long-KILL EVERY ONE OF YOU.' nrs and, at the top of the 
running feud with Columbine pecking order, uthletes. athletes, including a recent con­!larder to labnl w1~re the frontation in which the "maliost 
ONE OF THE ATT'ACKl.:JiS IN dozen members of thn 
showed up carrying swords and Trenchcoat Malia. Some fel­
rnH COLUMBINE SIIO0TJNGS
brass knuckles. 
The Trenchcoat Mafia was no sClcrot society. Memher,s posed forayearbookphoto last year. , 
They had. their own special spot in the cafete­ria, near the stairs. They wore black trench roats -no matter the season -and berets with Germun crosses. They openly admired Hiller. They sµoko constantly of war and guns, and Harris had made a video at school in which he bragged about bis new guns. 
After Paduc,ih ,,nd Edinboro. Jonesboro and Springfield, how could such provocative behav­ior not raise alarm? · · 
Rather easily, it turns out. 
rf follow students at Columbine were con­cerned -and some now say they were -they said little to adults, figuring they could handle these troublesome misfits themselves. 
If teachers and police noticed, they passed it offas tee,µ•age rebellion, unpopular kids. looking for a i:;ei1st~ ofb,ilonglng. , ; , ,, · . An~)f parents· Jike Steve Qohn worried about their children's safety, the/rested easy knowing · that Columbine High was the ni<:est ofschools.in 
low students described them 
as rosl!mbling "Got.hies," 
sharing a penchant for black 

clothes and ghoulish makeup. · Tht:lr long black dust()rs lit tho Gothic style, but also that of Old West villains. Members of the group simply said the coats kept them warm. 
Their interest in Hitler and World War II was 
well-known around school. They played war 
games and hrngged about thoir gum,. llarris 
and Klehold sometimes spoh G1mnan in thfl 
hallways and made references to ''4-20.'' 
Hitler's birtbday, said Aaron Cohn, who lives 
five doors down from thu tidy, two-story homo 
on a quiet cul-de-sac where llu.rris' family 
moved in a couple years ago. The massacre took 
place on llitl(~r·s birthday. 
Cohn said Harris, 18, was nonetheless a quiot 
kid who hadn't caused him any problems in the 
past. Other neighbors echoed Urnt. 
"He was a nice guy," said Mntt Good, 'J 6, who 
lives two doors away. ''Shy person, didn't say 
much. I'd see him walk from the cu.r to the 
house, and that's about It." 
page 8 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, April 22, 1999 
student union HAPPENINGS 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 
Movie: A Clvll Action. 4/22. Thursday. Cushing Auditorium. 4/23. Friday. Cushing Auditorium. 4/24. Saturday. Cushing Auditorium. 
Acoustlcafe. 4/22. Thursday. LaFortune Huddle. 
HPC (HALL PRESIDENTS' COUNCIL) 
Formals. 4/24. Saturday. Keenan Senior Alumni 
EARTH WEEK EVENTS 
4/24. Saturday. Stonehenge 
4/25. Sunday. 
MISCELLANEOUS/CAMPUS-WIDE 
4/22 Thursday. 4/24 Saturday. Washington Hall 
ALUMNI ASSOCIATION (with Adidas and Zeneca Pharmaceuticals) 4/27. Tuesday. Jake Kline Fleld at the Eck 
ANTOSTAL 
goes to hollywood 
1030PM. Tickets: $2. 0B00PM & 1030PM. 0800PM & 1030PM. 
0900PM-1200AM. 
Club  
1200PM  Greenfest (campus bands)  
0S00PM  Earth  Day  Mass  
1100AM  Students for  Environmental  Action  Bike  Ride  
0100PM  Tree  Planting  at  the  CSC  
0730PM  Dialogues  of the  Carmelltes  
Baseball Stadium  
0700PM  Breast Cancer Awareness  Baseball  Game  
(ND  vs.  U. Illinois-Chicago)  


"galactic cafe" bandfest 4pm-6pm reckers outside patio featuring sexual chocolate and the meteors 
celebrity/character costume contest madonna, marilyn monroe, pro-wrestlers, indiana jones, princess leia, austin powers, elvis, "clueless characters" spice girls, beatles, brady bunch 
"nightmare cafe" "A h h dinner at the dining halls
rac nop oma 

9-11pm 

big-screen, outdoors in north quad 



"hollywood cafed". h d. . h 11
inner at t e mmg a s 
laser tag arena 
wild video dance partv1pm-2am

north quad 2pm-8pm 
at s(epan center 
Thursday, April 22, 1999 T~-Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 9 






Recvcl rvet Louisville police arrest triple slaying suspect 
Ayacht for the price of a dinghy. 

Now you can get it all without paying for it all. Because the PowerBook® G3 is more affordable than ever (see below). Awesome Pentium-crushing power.* Massive 14.1" screen. Endless adaptibility. All of which can help you work faster and more efficiently. Leaving you more time to stop and smell the ocean breeze. Come in and tesc the waters. 
PowerBook® G3 prices have been slashed up to $700 with prices starting at $1799.00 Available Now. 
Call now for Apple's special ND student offers! OIT Solutions Center Room 112 Computing/Math Bldg Phone: (219) 631-7477 (1 for sales) 
Apple Education Store: www.apple.com/educ:i1ion/store 
Authorized 1800.780.5009 
Value Added Reseller 
Cl9'19 Af1r-Je Ci.im{'llrlT, Inc.Al! ~hb n.-.·rvt<l. Apple:, the Apptc k1,:t), and l\1'Ntrlb:1k ;ire lrJ1.lc111.ark:in[ Apple Cumpu1cr, Inc., rq.ttircrcd In 1hi.: U_\..A. :ind uihcr•,:uun1ril~ 'f'l.'fk ~'CCfll'Tlfl3"bltl<i at" h:i.~ti on fn7Tim:ark l'IIL~'f ICSl. 
Associated Press 
LEXIN<.TON, Ky. 

Lexington police traveled to Louisville lo question a man arrnsted thnre about a string of killings that left his stepfather and two acquaintances dead. 
With a warrant out for his arrest on charges of' violating his parole and stealing a car. Hichard "Hicky" Sherroan, 24, was taken into custody by Louisville police Wednesday after­noon at a l'reston Highway motel. Ca.pt. Wayne Kessinger said, 
Earlior Wodrrnsday, Lexington pol.ice said Sherman was the stPpson of vic­tim Frank Heschke, 58, and also an acquaintance of victims ltir.harcl Mills, 22, and Isaac Davis, 18. 
All three were f(iun~ot to death Tuesday evening within blocks of each other on the southwest side of Loxington. 
KPssinger said Sherroan was heing hr.Id in Louisville on charges of violat­ing parole, being a felon in possession of a firearm and possessing cocaine and marijuana. 
Ile said police found the drugs. along with some scales, in the room with Sherroan. 
In Lexington, police Sgt. Mark Barnard said investigators want to speak with Sherroan, but stopped short of naming him a suspect in the deaths. Barnard declined to discuss a possib.le motive for the killings. 
Heschke's body was found when the fire department was called to his home in the southwestern part of the city shortly after 5 p.m. Tuesday with a report of a possible heart attack. 
Officers then went to the nearby apartment of Mills, a friend of Sherroan's, and found Mills and Davis shot to death inside, Barnard said. 
Barnard decli1rnd to say what 11\d investigators to Mills' apartmnnt, say­ing only that limy wanted to t.nlk to Slrnrroau's friends ahout Heschkc's 
dnath. 

The killings camn thr<w days hnfor<• the annivnrsary of' the notorious April 
23. 1986 killing spree in which Lexington resid<1nls LaFoncla Fay Foster and Tina Marie llickoy l'owell stablrnd, shot. ran ov1H· and set on fin• five vir.Lirns within lhrco hours. Barnard said Tunsday·s slayings worn th11 worst such string sinen that cas<'. 
Barnard said a hlun 198') Chcvrol1~t 
Berntta (hat Slwrroan was bclinvnd to 
have stol(m from Heschkn was spotl<\d 
late Tuesday in the Shively section of' 
southwest Louisvilln. 
. lie said policn staked out tlrn car and 
a nearby hotel wlrnre Sherroan was 
helieved to bn staying. hut Slwrroan 
did not return to that hotel. 
Police caught up to him Wndnnsclay 
afternoon at a lkd Hoof" Inn on Prnston 
llighway. wlwre Kessinger said 
Shcrroan i'lid not rnsist arrest. ·-"lie had a weapon on the nightstand 
bnsidn him when wn entnrnd tho room, 
but we were f'ortunatn <inough lo tako 
him without any incident," Kessinger 
said. 

Fayette County court rncords show 
Sherroan pleadnd guilty to a 1994 
forgery charge and to 1995 charges of 
robbery and forgery. 
He received a 10-year sentence on 
the robbery charge and. according lo 
state records, was incarcerated from 
August 1996 to February 1997. 
lie spent the last four of those 
months in a boot camp at the Hoedernr 
Correctional Complex in LaGrange and 
was paroled in February 1997. 
Kessinger said Slrnrroan would be kept in Louisville while local charges are filed. 
Got news? 1-5323. 
Student Activities needs 
24 Hour Lounge Monitors 
for the 1999·2000 acactemlc year. 
Prck up applications at 315 LaFortune student Center. 
For more information call 631-5028. 
1/niwrslt~ 
1 lirl'c;mrits, 
11....-ll:ltl•)l)'S 
l:irgc~t p11hH:1,hLr 1>1 l':1/lll)lllli h'kplHH\I.' dirn:tot·I~~'>, is 

l1hitl~ ~IIIL!t'.lllS lo sl')I )TIiow paµ,· SPl~ND THE :idwrl i:-lnH lt•r <~11\lJlH" l(·k•phn11c:: SUMMER <lin·et1.1rh's 1..h1ri11g llw :.u1rn11t·r of WITH US! 
!999. 'J'hl)! is 11 iltlftiilW ri1.t1lllll\.'f joh Oj)L'll lo ~tudc·ul.~ ,ind rn-,·m ~,·,11bw11•s who !ll'C 11()( ;111<:mting Slll!llll\·I' Sd)()OI. 
We will I«· lntrrvkwillJ,: 011 tlv· Nofrt' JJ11nw ca1npus in 111r..: cw...t t't:w day.~. l'lc:,~c c11l (AOO') 7{l-55'i{~ ('Xt, /O,f aw1 -~Jw;tk to ~t(:vr: hrodo,·k Lo k:atn mnre luform,ILlon or lil M·I 1111 an i1111.:1•vi~~w. Or npply onllnc nt "•ww.u11ivrrsity,li1·<•ctorlc.~.com. 
~University Dirct,"torle.s 
NII vu,.u,f\ r,·1\1,·1· •I ...,..., illU, NC 11•1·l fq)fl·"l•I,\ It•",• w¥t"'-1,ru,h.~..-.,h,.Jit1>:;-'JotJ.·1ri.r-o,n 


Class of 1999 
Only 



Thursdays 

to hang out with 1,600 of your 
Closest Friends 



99¢ Cover 
.... 
with college I.D. 
-mus! be 21 
2 2 2 S. Michigan 
South Bend • (219) 234-5200 Coll the Heartland Concert & Event line (219) 251-2568 www.ACEplaces.com/heartland 
GIT IN THE 




THICK 
OF IT. 

Conveniently located in the heart of 
downtown South Bend, Old Chicago 
Steakhouse has the hottest grill in town. 
/'·•"'"'-''!·~:(C''••w~&~esdays ';:/ All-You~Can-Eac Crab Legs $15.95 
222 S. MICI!ICAN•SOlJTII IIEND•(21?l 2.14-5200 




VIEWPOINT 
page I 0 
Thursday, Apri[ 22, 1999 
THE OBSERVER 
NnrRE DAME OHICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
1999-2000 GENERAL BOARD 
EDII0R·IN-CHI£~ Michelle Krup• MANAGING f0IT0R BUSINESS MANAGER 
M. Shannon Ryon D:ive Rogero 
ASSISTANT MA.NAGfNG EnrroR 
Laora l\:rdle 
NEWS Eom>R ..............................Tim Loga11 ADVERTISING MANAGER ...................... !!,yon Lurz VJEWPUINT EDITOR .............Coll«n Ga,,ghen An DESIGN MANAGER ...............Kenne-d1 Kearney SrORTh EIJITOR.. ........................Bri•n Ke.,ler SYSTEMS MANAGER........................Michael Revers SCENE F.OITOR.. .....Micha~! Vancga!I C-ONTROI.LER ................................Timothy Lmc SAl"11' MARY'S EDITOR ......Colleen McC,nl,y GRAPHICS EDITOR............................Joe M11ellcr PHOTO ED!"l'OR ..... Kevin D:ilum WFn Amt1NISTRATOR.......................Erik Ku,hro 
Th~ l )h~l'l"\lc.'r is thl' indcpendcnr m-wtrJrcr plJhli!;hctf h~· cht• sru\lt'nt~ ufthl: Univt•rsity of Nurre Dame du I,.;Kand ~aim Mary's (:olkge. ft dnr!< °'" 11n:C!:..'i;1rily rdk-ct fhl· polidc1> of rhl' :t<lmi1,istr:t1ion ofeither imain1rion. "fhc m.:w'i i~ repnrtt'J ;1, .1ccur.1tdy :1nd obic<.."fivdy :1s pn:i.,;ibl,("_ Unsignt'tl ~lirminh repmrm the.· npinio11 of rhc m,1;jo1·iry of ,h1: E1.iifor-r11~( :hkf M,n,1gurg Fditnr, A-.~t.-.nmr Mitn,,ging J;,licnr ;mtl dt'p.amn(·m t'Jiw~, Cn,nmt11mri~. lt."tfCf'.'1 omtl cdnmn., prl'~11r 1h(" Yit"Wft nfd1t' ,,utlmrs ;1ml not 11~ct"Ss.1rily tho~ ofTht." Ohsc,rver. Vkwpoinc Sip ace t.."i ;1vnilahle m all nwmlx-n of rhr N,nn: Danu.+/S.iil1C Mary'it communicv .iml to all ~der.~-The frw cxprcuion t1f v.irying opini<m.s thruugh IC'H.,.r:. iii f.'.OC:(}UT,\~·d. 
Contacting The Observer 
Editor-in-Chief 6.~1-4542 Office Mamger/Gencral lnfurmarion 631-7471 M:1n.:1g1ng Editor/A!-tSIS.tJl'H ME 6.~1-4541 Bu.<in,ss Office 631-5313 New$ 6.~ 1-5.HJ Advertising 63 1-6900/8840 Vi~wrmin1 6.~ 1-5.'103 Sysrcm,/Web Administrator 631-8839 Sporr, 631-4543 fox 6.H-6927 Scenie 6.'11-4540 AJ f.Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu Saint Mary's 631-4324 News E·Ma,1 ob,orver.ob,new,. J@lnd.edu Photo 6.l 1-8767 Viewpoint E-Matl <>bserver.viewpoinr. l@nd.edu 
TheEvolution~Warfar~



--------... 
DEGRADE TH!=IR CoMMAND Af4D COIIITROL INt=RASTRUC.lUREWMILE 
MINIMIZING COUATERAL p~INTRo0UGIN<S­G~U001 iRWPS ONL-'< 
IN THE: E.'IENT OF 


CHARGE! 
A Pe.~1ssrve. 
EN"ll<ONMENT. 

¦ FOR A MORE Jusr AND HUMANE Wcmrn 

Balancing on the Teeter-Totter of Life 
The room is dark. The slide goes up on the screen. LaTasha. Katie and Delia strike the poses of the three brickmak­ers in the slide as Zach reads, "I go to work every day for eight to 10 hours to pay off my family's debt ... " 
A couple of years ago, I left my full­time job as executive director of a human rights organization in Minnesota to trv to find a better balance for my ranily. I now know the "balance" I ~as seeking as a human rights activist. mother. school volunteer. professor, wife. neighbor and daughter looks more like a constant struggle to keep from falling off a wobbly teeter-totter than some kind of wonderfully integrated blend of meaningful activities. 

Barbara Frey 
One assignment I have in this mix is to advise a group of lifth-and sixth-grade . students in a St. Paul public ~~hool, Expo Elementary, who work on human rights issues. The group calls itself 
11.0.P.E.. for "Helping Other People Everywhere." When you are 10 years old. you think big. 
Over the past few years. the group has undertaken several diverse projects. some more successful than others. The students wrote to Tiger Woods and Michael Jordan, asking them to encour­age NIKE to improve its labor practices. Neither Tiger nor Michael saw lit to respond. They also wrote letters to local rug retailers asking them to ensure that their rugs are not made with child labor and encouraging them to join RUC­MARK, an organization that certifies child-frPe rugs. The rug dealers were only slightly more responsive, We actu­ally did get one meeting. but the store manager probably rethought his open­ness to this discussion when we showed up with 15 kids who had no qualms about climbing all over his Oriental rugs. 
This fall, we held a bake sale at near­by Macalester College to raise enough money to buy a goat through the Heifer Project for a family in Central America. It was a tough decision between a goat and a sheep. A cow would have been nice. they thought, but too expensive. 
I have sometimes seen the 1-1.0.P.E. group as an alternative to Boy Scouts or Girl Scouts for some kids involved. About half of the students come from upper-middle-class families and half come from lower-middle-class or poor families. For the poorer kids, their involvement seemed to have little to do with human rights and a lot to do with the fact that 1-1.0.P.E. is a free extra-cur­ricular activity. To make it work. I bring plenty of treats and drive about half the group home after the meetings. Because several live on the other side of town. I often spend twice as much time on the road as l do in the meetings themselves. On many a Tuesday afternoon driving on the highway with a car full of screaming kids, l have wondered how I got into this situation in the first place and how I could gracefully get out of it. 
But then there are the good days, like the Saturday breakfasts that we serve now and then at the Dorothy Day Center with the Notre Dame Alumni Club. The alums are wonderful about involving the kids in the set up and serving. One Saturday, my students were reduced to giggles learning outrageous orange chopping techniques from one of the Notre Dame regulars. The kids really focus on the fun; if a little bit of service sneaks in, that is okay. too. 
The II.0.P.E. group was invited recently to make a presentation at a human rights education workshop at the Universitv of Minnesota Law School. They decided to use the opportunity to do a performance about child labor. 
The students had been very impressed with the photographs in a book about child labor called "Stolen Dreams" by Minneapolis physician and pho­tographer David Parker. So we cre­ated tableaus. pos­ing the students like the children in the pictures and telling their stories. The stories includ­ed Arti, a brick­maker from Nepal. Sumina, a boy who worked on fishing platforms in Indonesia, Meena. a ragpicker in India. and Belinda, a migrant farmworker in the U.S. 
We rehearsed the tableaus every week, moving a chin like this. a knee like that. "No. Ozzie, you cannot wear your baseball cap." "Sorry, Amanda, you cannot chew gum during your pose." On the day of the event, we added to the confusion by leaving behind David Parker's book, which had two of the tableau stories, and spending half our rehearsal time at the law school making arrangements for the school secretary to fax the pages to us in time for the per­formance. 
Somehow the group stopped giggling long enough to do a terrific job. Sure they rushed through their words, and some of the actors twitched during their poses, but overall it really worked. Afterwards, one of the teachers asked what motivated the 11.0.P.E. students to participate in these kinds of activities. Here goes, l thought, "Free Cheese-Its and some fnn goofing around time." I'm going back to full-time work in the fall. 

LaTasha spoke first. "I guess it's just important that we cam about kids who are our ag11 who have to work doing such awful things instead of going to school or having fun." 
"Speaking for myself." added Amanda, hands on hips. "it is so sad that we havP it so good when these kids have noth­ing." 
I exhaled. Maybe I'll stay on the toeter-tottnr a littlo while longer. 
Barbara Frey, '78, is an attorney spe­cializing in international human rights law and policy. She is an assistant pro­fessor in the Institute for Global Studies at the Uniuersity ofMinnesota. Frey chairs the national aduisory board of the Center for Social Concerns. 
For A More Just And 1/umane World is a bi-weekly column sponsored hy the Center for Social Concerns. The author's views do not necessarily reflect the views oflhe Cenlerfor Social Concerns or The Obsenier. F-mail comments lo: ND.ndcnlrsc.7@nd.edu. 

¦ DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 

¦ 0.UOTf OF THE DAY 
'what good is a brilliant 
argument about hid­
den and obscure matters 
when God does not judge us 
on our knowledge of such 
things?' 
-Thomas A Kempis 



VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, April 22, 1999 -------------------
---------------------------page 11 
¦ LETTER TO HIE EDITOR 
Competition for Grades Serious Problem at ND 
/\ ft.w mouths ago. I had I.Im opportunity Lo .,p1•ak wit.h a pros1w1·tiVP Nol.rt) Dam11 sludont. I was ho1111, l'or hrPak, and my rnotlwr had invitNl sollll\ long-Limn f'amily l'rinnds over to talk to mt> about tl11• Uniwrsity. WP disr.11ss('(l tfw wmal issw·s -housing arTangPnrnnts. dining hall, food. dass<•s and sol'ial lirt>. I round mvs11lf t:ast­ing PVl'rything in a posit.iv" light bPcai"rsP I had land still do hav,,) ,L g'l'llPrally positiv1, altitude about lili• at. Not.r,• i)amn. Tlw prospect.ivn stu­dPnl (or, ratllf'r, his nwtlwr, who did most. ol'tlrn qw•sl.io11 aski11g) Uw11 pos,,d a touglwr quoslion, "Is tlicrP mrylhing wrong with Nolrc Dam11'!" I 
th1111ght about it for a whilP, hut Jhr, nnly answ.. rs that 1:anw lo mind Wf'IT tlw ,ivPl'llSPd, l'rt>q1H111lly lwarrl, almost rlic-lw­likt! ro111plai11Ls. I rnul<i havn said. ''Tlll'rP's nothing to do ill Soulh H< 1111I." l'or «•xa 111 pit•. /\Ithough this complaint is fairly wPll-fouml11d, I dis­missPd it in my ro11­VPl"sation wil.h 1111~ prospPr.livr•. l'nrlrnps l was ovPrconw with a surgp or S('hool pridP, IH'rhaps it was monwntary insanity, or most likt)!y, I truly lwli,wnd what I was saying. WhalPv1ir tlm l'l'ason, I was com­JJPll1•d to say, "No. Tlu•n• n•aily isn't any­thing wrong with Not.n! Danw." 
l!nrPntly. how11vPr, I haVI' IH'('.{lfl](' awan~ ur a d1'l'Pc'.l whirh does S('riously disturb nw and whkh would havn hPt'll worth mnnlion­ing lo this prospt>t:livP s1udP11l if I had bmm morn ,·onsdorn; or it al tllf• limn. This clnfoct is tlw ohsPssion manv sl 11d1•11ts havi, with · t.hn gradt•s and with rnmparing t.lwmsl'lv1:s to ollwr sludnnts. and HS for as l can tnll, Llw Uniwrsity dot's its hPst to 1~nrotrragi• tlw obsPssion. 
, 
/ 
ity lo tho likes ol' you. 01' coursn, Mr. or Ms. Competitive always risks the unpleasant realiza­tion that your score was. in fact. higher, in which case Compctitive has two choices; Dismiss it as a (Juke or hat1• you fornvor. Thmi, of course, them am also tlrn questions asked of' tho prnfossor. ltcenntly, I attm1dod a class sclrndulnd for the sol,• purposl' ol' r<'llll'lling my flXam I was hope­f'ul that, as a result, tho class period would be short11r than usual. Bul my hopns worn dashed. Many questions needed asking bcforn wo worn l'roo to leave. Thn fact that a tot ol' questions wero asker! is, in and or itself. by no means 
aggravating. What is aggraval.ing is that not a singl11 qu!lstion asked was motivated by a desirn to learn tlw matf'lrial. Evl'rv question related ll; tho assignment of grades. 
You may think that this competitivP-, grade-obsessed ptrn­nomenon is only nat­ural and cannot be avoided at a school likn Notre Dame whosP-students are accustomed to excelling academical­
-
ly. Doubtless, the 
make-up of thr, stu­dent body is part or the explanation. but it is only part. In my 
opinion. the University encourages it. As soon as students have grades from which a GPA can be calculated and from which. in turn, a class rank can be deter­minnd, a student is able to look up his or her ranking through the Notre Dame Web site. SP-voral profes­sors also encourage it. I was enrolled in one class in which the professor, more or less, passed exams back in descending order. That is a fairly extreme and rare example, but there 
are many more subtle examples. Many profes­
sors post a list or the number of students who rcceiv(id each and every score on the exam, doubtless. with the view that students have a 
righl to sno how they performed in relation to tlrn class. Yet I, for onA, do not think stud«mts have this right. Why should students receive any 
information othor than what directly pertains to 
their own individual performance? I say profes­
sors should torture the Competitives by with­
holding juicy information about other people's 
scorns and let the rest of us live in peace. 
Emily Cauble Sophomore Cavanaugh Hall April I0, 1999 
¦ LETTER TO THf EDITOR 
Thank You for 

Christmas In April 
I would like to commend all of tho Notn) Damo and Saint Mary's students who gave their time last Saturday for Christmas In /\pril. I know you brought some sunshinn to tlw many homcowrwrs 
you helped and thry all "Thank you." · The way everyone jumpnd in and did th1! work mad1! my job as House Caµtain very nasy. · 
Paul J. White 
South ( ;,!tc;vay Rotary April l'J. I'J'J'l 

¦ THE BOSTON GLOBE 

ND ROTC Grads 
the class on997.. 
Tl:l¢y are part of the lore of Notre Dame. Thoy havo 111:iard the ch!'lets from their seats in the corner of the stadium and walkeq the snow·btden paths to the Grotto or the Basilica so tnaqy Umes before exams, They are tho former high school football captains, cross country runners, National Merit win­
n¢rs, Fulpright Scholars and the kids that you wanted your ypungster to go to the prom with. Hanging on thoir bodroorn walls. are the banners of a time just passed and a journey that Gannot be taken again. Their names are not Struhldreher, '¥iller1Crowley and Layden, but Urban, Palnrnr, Cosden and Buckley.They have shared the same halls and heard all tho SBJI!CYoices. They are the men and women of Notre Dame, a cfe~:r~lltinder ofwhat ls.good and true about America. They ~,te 1AerE1ly the:<present of A storied legacy of Dome rs who bleed 
·· l)otli blue and gold, but also, have a great love of country. You $!:ie, ~tNotre Dame, the walls do talk. They whisper about the ~Orf'Who w.i.lked tho Bataan Road, sat in the snows of tlrn Ndm,:nti:s or were blessed by Father Corby at Gettysburg. 
.Tµerejs never a silence from these walls, only a reminder that ":YQµare ND" and never forget it. 
H~asbeen two years since they had their commissioning ceremonies under the ''God, Country, Notre Dame" door of the HasiHca orthe Sacr()d Heart and have stayed as closo as snpa­rated souls ean. Soan Cosden will fly jets, Heidi Urban is MilitaryJntel}jgence assigned to a front line infantry unit called 
· the lQthMountain Division, Ian Palmer commands a tank group, while Dave Buckley would jump with the 82nd Airborne 
. ~llenthe calLcomes down to the vvire. All hope when the time comes. tllat they have enough equipment 1tnd that it all works. '11:!Elyrernember Somalia. Th1iy are the bost and tho bright1ist thafAmericahas to offer, They are a microcosm of kids from ou.r fln~s{ institutions, the Citadels, Texas Aggies, VMJ's and ull the r~st. They are also the pawns or Madeline Albright, our feltrless leader, and their Balkan War. 
:Ea~h evenjng, ironically during prime time, as if choreo­graphedby CNN, we dig deeper into a civil war. where vvhon1ever has the upper hand will dig ditchos and nat tho other side anyway. Such has been the way of life since Attila tqokfi wrong turn at the pass. No matter how many bombs, h,lw.maiwliv!.lS ()( how many ytmrs, when we leave this Go(ls forsaken peninsula, the slaughtering will begin anew. And with the Apache attack helicopters on the way, a weapon almost depe11dent QD ground troops, tho inevitable will lrnppon. Tim best and the brightest will enter into a ground war of no strate­gic interest to any of us. Sound familiar'? 
So each evening, whi111 wo got the kids at day•cctr1-1 and shuf• 110 ort home to a Swanson dinner, chat about how groat the economy is and check to see if we should refinance the mort­gage; kids, as Pat Buchanan would say. with the surnames of' Kowalski. Shea, Perini, Ortiz and Jackson will bn climbing the hills of Yugoslavia to become tho carvings of some futme Wall of Honor, sacrificing for a man without any honor, so that his legacy will be more than a blue dross. 
This column first appeared as an editorial in the !Joston Globe on April 7, 1999, and is reprinted courtesy ofthe editor­in-chief oj'the 130.,;ton mobe, a Notre Dame alurrinu:<;. 
The l!iews expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofthe Observer. 


I am sun~ it is a sconn wilh which many ol'you arP familiar and which, ii' you are liko 11111, you dn•ad. I am lalking about llw PXperience o!' gel­ling an t•xam bark. 'J'lw unplPasantnoss or the silwtlion has litll11 to do with Urn scorn you n't'.Piw. Hallwr, it has to do with llrn S!;nsation or sPvnral pairs or eyt•s burning into the back of' your lwad as tlw people seated behind you try to srwak a pPak at your scorn. Or it has lo do with thal orw follow student who comes right nut and asks. "llow did you do'!" From 1ixperioncn, you know that a rnsponsP ol' "Finn" or "Not as well as I had hopod" will not suf1ico. This individual is dPmamling a 1111mb1!r. Because, if you simply say. "Firw," 1111 or sl111 will not have the opportu­11ily to glonl ovt>r his or lwr int1•1loct11al supnrior-
Got Something to Say? 



viewpoint. l@nd.edu 
T E 
0 
page 12 ----------------Thursday, April 22, 1999
BSERVER 
'Beverlv Hills 90210': ''" 
Scene,·tal{es,,i, ,1oo1·11•t, the ,, 
quiniesseniial•'···•·••·tieff·••sffitp.· Of'tfte·~90s;., 
By AMBER AGUIAR Scene Tclcvi.ion Critic 
o~ld K~,.lly ovPrcom.P her addiction t~ diet pills before tl was too late?
W 
Would St1we get caught breaking 
into West Beverly Hills High School's comput..ir system tu change his gra~es? ~ou!d Donna stand her ground and remain a virgin despite all of David's pressure'? 
For vean; "Beverly llills, 90210" has kept view­ers r.,iptivafed while achieving record ratings. Enthusiastic fans tune in every week to find out what will happen in the lives of its glamorous teens. But tuning into "90210" today, orrn will f'ind shows much different from those first a.ired nine seasons ago. 
The after-school-special-like quality of the orig­inal episodos has been replaced by soap opera sensationalism. After five years of high school, the crew has long since graduated college and embarked into llrn real world. 
The show itself has graduated along with its cast. With parents Jim and Cindy Walsh virtually out of the picture, the cast now battles few prob­lems beyond deciding which of the limited char­acters to become romantically involved with next. With a new emphasis on sex over social issues, Beverly Hills is like a new city. 
A lot has changed since "90210" was developed in 1990, but it remains among the most popular television shows of its genre. As the longest run­ning drama series in network history, it manages to hold onto a large and loyal fan following. 
The question remains: With all of the changes "9021 O" has undergone since its development, what is keeping these viewers loyal? Is it sheer devotion to the group they watched as they grew from awkward teens into swinging adults? Or are the plotlines really that intriguing? 
From its beginning, "90210" has been a tremendous hit, earning instantaneous popularity and establishing a huge fan base. The first drama to target 12-to 24-year-olds and address real toen issues, it earned immediate recognition for the Fox network. 
The show began when producer Aaron Spelling saw a neglected mar­ket and an opportunity for fresh drama. It was a fun, glamorized approach to problems like sex, drugs and divorce, with charac­ters lo whom teens could relate. While every kid in Beverly Hills had a convert­ible, cell phone and trust fund, they still reµresented the real, rehellious idealism of Gencralion X. 
Each episode bBgan with another do\'astat­ing problem, but with 
••d 111,s 
Photo courtesy of Fox 

When it all began nine seasons ago, "Beverly Hills, 90210" was the home to the fresh faces
the help of Jim and 
of these eight young actors. Only four, Ian Ziering, Jenni~ Garth, Bnan Austin Green and
Cindy, it was solved by 
Tori Spelling, have stayed with the show throughout its long run.
the end of the hour. 
The show was cen­tered around Brend a and Brandon, naive Minnesota twins who struggled to adjust to life in Beverly Hills, a new home with high social stan­
dards. 
The Walshes supplied traditional Midwestern values to spoiled kids of dysfunctional families in southern California. They provided a pseudo-fam­ily for the rest of the group with broken Hollywood homes. Steve struggled to come to grips with being the adopted son of a popular television star. Kelly dealt with her mother's embarrassing drug problem. Donna fought the pressure of an overbearing mother while David tried to ignore his womanizing father. But all found refuge at the Walsh home. 
As mentioned, the show targeted teens and hit the market hard. But as the years went on, it became obvious that the cast would finally have to graduate. With their departure from high school, the show's increasingly mature plotlines began attracting older viewers. 
Original viewers were aging and adults began to tune in with as much frequency as teens. Fans were hooked by sensationalistic cliff-hanging plots and waited to see what would happen next in the 

increasingly complicated lives of the long-standing cast. "9021 O" was quickly morphing into a weekly, night-time soap opera. 
Yet for all of its tangling plot lines, part of the appeal of "90210" is that its characters have both remained fairly con­stant and have retained their endearing goodness. While vari­ous other characters have come and gone, much of the core cast has stayed for the show's nine years of production. Original stars Brenda and Brandon (Shannon Doherty and Jason Priestley) have both left the show, but much of the first season's cast, including Kelly, Steve, Donna and David, still remain. Dylau has also returned to BevArly Hills aftAr spAnding a few seasons doing drugs in Mexico after the devastating murder of his fiancP-e. 
While all thesn characters have occasional scandalous slip-ups for the sake of tho show's storylino, they all rct.ai11 t.he inhernut good­ness of tlrnir teen VPars. Por all of tho show's emphasis on sex and scandal. it retains the heartfnlt goofiness that comprises the "'90210' spirit" that was charac­teristic evon of its high school days. Permanont charactors remain moral and ultimately pre­dictabl1-1. 
Yet since its beginning, the show has employed a revolving door of t:(~mporary fomale antago­nists who lack this goodness, to add a little extra spice to tlrn show's mix of char­acters. 
ll began with the addition of Valerie (Tif'f'ani­Amber Thiessen). the risk-taking, pot-smoking cousin of Brenda and Brandon. Next, with Val's departure camr-the brief appearance of two-tim­ing Sophie, who posed a threat to the friendship of David and Steve. Finally, the cast is currcrntly plagued by the meddling antics of Donna's back­stabbing cousin Gina, a newcomer to Bevnrl) Hills. They're the nasty characters fans love to hate. 
This dynamic combination of personalities and themes has kept viewers tuning in for moni years than any drama on any network, and the show's fan base has grown stronger. Yd as thn show approaches a decade in production, it has peopln wondering if they might soon be watching "Beverly Hills, 90210: The Geritol Years." Perhaps even more so than when graduation day was nearing, people arc wondering what's in store for "90210." 
To many it seems "9021 O" has plateaued. Tl11· enthusiasts who have followed the show have agi,d. Its fans arc no longer primarily tnnnagers, and tlw show continues to struggln to compete with tlrn increasingly high ratings of the nnw hit teen drama, "Dawson's Creek," which airs at tlrn samn time. And as the Warner Brotlrnrs network has uslirp(1d Fox's reign of teen television with its dnvelopnwnl of popular shows like "Dawson's Crnek," "Buffy tlw Vampire Slayer," "Felicity" and "Charmed," prns­surn mounts for the producnrs of "<J02 l O" to come up with something 1rnw. 
So that is what th11y did. The show's devnlopPrs have come up with a new plan for "lfoverly llills" beginning in the Fall of 2000. Hathnr than embark upon another chapt<1r in tlrn lives or tlw original characters, tlH•ir id1\a is to rPpla('<' "<J0210'"s current cast with a l'rPsh batch or stu­dents to populate Wnst Beverly llills lligh S('hool. 
Tim new show is to bP callcid "lfrverly llills, 90210: Thn New Class." It will lw inlernsting lo sen whether St<we will return as tlrn gool'y sid<'­kick of' Mrs. Teasley, as Scrnech has lrncomn to Mr. Be Id i n g on "Saved by tlrn Bn11 : T lw New Class." "9021 [)" snems to br: taking the sanw omi­nous route as "Saved by llw B1~tl," its orrn-tinw Pf>pular teen sitcom counterpitrt. Y(,t givP11 th1: tremendous fan support "9021 O" has enjoynd since its development, pPrhaps its ,ww class will be morn successful. 
Tuneineverv 
Wednesdav at1u.m. 
toseewhars 


happening on 
·''BIJUIJ/WHl//s, 90210" 

Thursday, April 22, 1999~------------------OBSERVER ----~-----------------page 13 
11111 11¦111 I' 1118 111811 llrlJII' II FII 
'Party ofFive' continues to chUfl alone, endine its fifth season UJith a bane. 

Hy IALJRA GAINES 
Scene.• Tdevi.sion Critic 
illi into its lifth snason, the popular hix drama "l':irty of' Fiv<'" conlimu•s to r.ap­
W
turP _audinncns_ and its actors l!cirsisl ill 
mak111g lwadl111Hs. Dohulmg Ill 19'>4. "l'arty of l·iv(1" dPpi!:ts the Iii'<' of tho Salingcrs, live rhilclrPn who lost tlwir parnnls to a drunk driving 1HTic1Pnl. during tlw pilot cpisocln. That ytmr, "!'arty" won llw Il11ma11ilas l'rizn l'<ir the dqiir.Lion ol' positiv1i sodal valuns and Ornn won tho I<)<J:i c;old(m Clobo award f'or h1•st rframatir snries. 
CPutPrncl around tlH) !'iv(! Saling<'r children -Charlil'. Baiky, Julia. Claudia and Owt111 -the show also d('picts tiw (l(!O(ll<\ c1•ntral in nach Salingcrs' lifo. ViPwt>rs g .. t a glimps1\ into tlm lili• of Sarah. Bail<1y's long tinw girll'riPnd: Kirst<•n. Charlin's l'ricnd, cnnli­danl a11d oil(' tinw lianc6c; and Cril'lin. Julia's nx-hus­band who until nicontly livml with tlw family. 
Throughout Plll'h or'its St!asm1s. "!'arty o·r Fiv1\" has allPmpl<'d to t•ngag11 audi1!nCPS with dramatic plots and various issues d(•aling with sc1lf-discov11ry and corning-of-agP in tlw liv11s of' trnmagnrs and young adtills. 
"J>arty" writPrs alt1m1pt lo shy away f'rom sinking to llw low. sleazy plot twists 1·haraclerislic of its cousin program on 1:ox. "Bnwrly llills, 1J02!0." While Party dot•s havn its fair shal'l' of cheating. prngnancy and sc•x iss1ws, it stops short of extn:mn character perso11­alilil's, onP-night stands and p<'rp<'l.ual mate-swap­ping. 
SomP cri!ics and rans may agrn" that last season "l'arty of FivP" hit a low point. Thi\ plots w11rc continu­ally 111on• dPprnssing Pach Ppisod1i as Charlie baUlcd 1·a11cl'r, Sarah and Bail1•y split up and Julia sulfornd through an unhappy marriage. 
Many dmlicalPd vinw1•rs stoppPd Hipping to tlrn show whirh was dl'liniLPly no longPr a party. Most or l!w charactPrs lwca11rn whiny and s1df"ish. not a com­P"lling romhination of' assl'ts to convince an auclinnc1\ lo watch WPPk al'l1•r wnd,. Ilow1wPr, things have light­l'l!Pd 11p this sPason, and "Party or Fivn" conli11uns lo h,• ii wortltwliil,• study IJrnak on WNJrwsday nights. 
As opposPd lo many soap oporas, llw diaract(ws or "Party of (,'iyp" an• 1mirh clrnip11r and tlrn issuns dealt with hit much dosPr to honw for many or tlrn show's vit•w1·rs. Curn•ntly, .Juliit has hrokPn a rnlationship in whkh slw was abusPrl and Charlin is struggling with raising a 1wwborn rtaughtnr without a wil'P. In a srrins of prPvious Ppisodns, Bailny had bnnn grantml tlw right 111 rustody or Ownn, tlrn youngest Salingnr, hPt·aus1• IH' was willing and abll' lo s1)('nd nrnre tinw lwlpi11g Owf•11 with a !Parning disability. 

Ilowover cloep and lifn-liko the issuos may bP, "Party" writers don't always handle the issuns as gracefully and consl'rvalively as onn might expect. 011 the episode that ai!'Hd /\pril 15, Claudia came facn to f'acn with her fear of sex. Tho writers decided to have Sarah acl as Claudia's motlH\r f'igurn, giving a slightly backward rnndition of' tlHi birds and !lrn bees. Claudia gives some prnlty compelling reasons to be scarod of sex -both tho transmission of' STDs and pregnancy. However, the writnrs missc:d an oxcellonl opponunity to prnach to young audiences on the dan­gers of snx and suggnst abstinnnce as an alternative. Instead, Sarah reaches for a condom and disr.usscs how there is much more to sex than thn physical act. A typi­cal 16-year-old girl would come out of that situation more confused then when 
The youthful cast of "Party of Five" includes (top to bottom) Matthew Fox, Lacey 
she starlnd. 
Chabert, Neve Campbell, Scott Wolf and Jacob Smith. 
Still. "l'ar.ty of Five" writnrs did a reasonable job dealing with Julia in an abusive relationship. Al first, she continued to live with Ned, the man who was hitting her, unable to real­ize that it wasn't her fa.ult; he was wrong to abuse lrnr. This mirrors oxactlv what womm1 in abusive situations usually go through. Finally, with the help of her ostrnngocl husband Grillin. Julia was able to discover that she nemkd to got out of the relationship. 
Wlwn t.hc whole sub-plot ended, Julia said, "A guy who claimed he loved me mado my life a living hell, and a guy who claimed ho didn't ... God, you did so much for mn, thank you, Griffin." 
So, llrn writ1irs show that in the end. tho good guy wins back the girl and abusivn relationships are bad things. Even though the show occasionally struggles with depicting its issues pnrfoctly. llrn rnes­sagns am always in them somewhere. 
Besides having a successful tc~levision drama, almost all the show's actors also have Vl)l'Y lucrativn f'ifm earners. Nnve Camplrnll (Julial can be soen in such movins as "Wild Things," "Scream," "Scream 2" and her upcoming "Three to Tango." Shn costars with Dylan McDnrmoU and Mattfww Perry in the film which dPlmts ,wxt !'all. 
It was also rumornd that slw was orfon,d 1warlv $f> million to star in "ScrPam :l." /\!though Camplwll is com­mitwd to "l'arly of Fiv1i" and donsn'l want to lw vinwncl as typP-cast, she has dec:idPcl to rnlurn with Court1rny Cox and llavid Arq11nUo f'nr on!' last flick to rn1111d out U1n trilo1;y. 
Scolt Wolf, Bailnyl cur-rnnUy stars in "Co," tlw smart, 1ww film from the dime-tor of "Swingors." 
t\nd or eonrsP, J1•m1ifi•r Lovp llowitt (Sarah} ean lw :-wen in "I Know What You Did Last Summer." its snqunl "I Still Know What You Did Lasl Surnnwr" and "Can't llardly Wait." 
Tlw crnators of "Party of Fivn" bavl' also corno up with a spi11-olf to lhnir highly-ncclainrnd drama. Tlw new show. "Tinrn of' Your Life." will fnaturn llewitl playing lmr "Party" characlPr, Sarah Hnnves, on a Sl'arch l'or lwr birth parnnts as well as IH'rsnlf'. Roady to air in the l'all of' 1<)<JtJ, this marks Ilewill's last soa­son mi "!'arty of Fivn," which is set lo run at loast onn lllOl'I! sciason. 
Ilow will this changn alfocl Uw plot. and what will it mean !'or fans" As Orn soason winds down. writers will 

-
whethor thn show will rPmain popular al'lPr I IPwilt !naves. Sim is, inddnnlally. on<' of' tlw most popular charudt!l'S. 
Time will only tdl what tlw SalingPrs' fatP will bring. As for now, lif'n continues to be a string or lwartadws, happirrnss and drama each WPdnnsday night.. 
0001miss the nanv Wednesdavs at 8p.m. 
Pholo courtesy of Fo• 
havn to como up with a way for Ilowitt's character to ....
Jennifer Love Hewitt, who plays Sarah, will star 111 a spin­
lnavo tlw show and starl I.Im new onn. Ilow that will 


on Fox.
off of "Party of Five" this fall. 
lwppmt is anyorw's gunss. It's also up in the air as to 
page 14 The Observer• SPORTS Thursday, April 22, 1999 
¦ NBA 

Ratliff's layup pushes Philadelphia past Boston 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 
Allen Iverson had 25 points and Theo Hatliff scored the winning points on a layup with 7 seconds left as the Philadelphia 76crs defcat0<l the Boston Celtics 80-78 tonight. 
It was Philadelphia's fourth win in live games as the 76ers inched closer to their first playoff appearance in eight years. 
Paul Pierce had 20 points while Greg Minor added 14 for Boston. which lost its third straight. 
Matt Geiger added 17 points and 15 rebounds for Philadelphia. 
Pierce's conserutivc 3-pointers gave Boston its final lead of the night. 78-76, with l :05 left. 
Iverson made two rrec throws on the 76crs' next possession to tie the game at 78, and after a missed jump shot by 
NBA Western 
Pierce, Hatliffs layup gave Philadelphia the win. 
Aaron McKie's jump shot capped an 8­1 run as the Sixers took a 6 7-60 lead with 6:58 left in the game. Boston cut it to 6 7 -66 when Dana Barros made two free throws with 5:47 remaining. 
lvcrson's :1-pninter put the ?tiers back on top. 74-69. at tho 4:40 mark. 
Larry Hughes scored six points in an 8-2 76ers charge in the final three min­utes of the third quarter, including a slam dunk with 6.6 seconds on the clock. and the teams were t.ied at 59 after three. 
Raplors 107, Wizards 91 
Doug Christie scored a season-high 28 points tonight as the Toronto Raptors returned to the .500 mark and stayed in the playoff chasP with a 107-91 victory 
over the Washington 
Wizards. 
In a ganrn that was tied 
near the end of the third 
quarter. it was once


Conference Standings 
again the fourth quartt-ir 
Western-Midwest 
Team Utah -x San Antonio-x Houston Minnesota Dallas Denver Vancouver 
Western Pacific 
Portland LA Lakers Phoenix Sacramento Seattle Golden State 
L.A. Clippers 
W L 32 -9 29 -12 27 -14 22 -20 14 -27 13 -29 7 -35 
30 -10 27 -16 21 -21 19 -22 19 -22 18 -23 7-34 
GB 
3 5 10.5 18 19.5 25.5 
4.5 
10 
11.5 
11.5 
12.5 
23.5 
x -Clinched Playoff Berth 
graphic by: Crissy Manary 
way -the Wizards were
L_-----------------==,;_.:....;-<-..:c...c:..c-'--'-'.=~ 

the last sub-.500 team they'll face this season, and five of their remaining eight games are on the road. 
T h u s 
Wednesday's game was an almost must-win situation for the Haptors, yet they rnspondcd by missing 12 or lhcir f'irst 14 shots to fall behind 22-13. After that. how­ever, they put on a show. 
Christie start­ed nailing 3­poinlers, and Vi nrn Carte1·, Brown and Christie dazzled the crowd with Michael .lordan­likR moves. Nine of the next 10 shots found the mark to kick off a 30-9 run. 
The Wizards trailed by as much ·is 12 in the AFP Photo 
second, quarter Shooting guard Allen Iverson had 25 points in the Philadelphia 76ers' but slowly closed 80-78 victory over the Boston Celtics last night. 
the gap until Jeff Mcinnis tied it 76-76 with a jump shot late in the third quar­ter. Tracy McGrady then hit a jump shot at the third-quarter buzzer to give the Raptors a two-point lead going into the fourth. 
Hornets 88, Pistons 85 
Elden Campbell scored a season-high 32 points and the Charlotte Hornets extended their playoff push with their ninth consecutive victory, 88-85 over the Detroit Pistons tonight. 
Campbell added 14 rebounds on a night Charlotte played without leading scorer and top defender Eddie Jones, who cut his right hand on a rim Monday in New Jersey and needed six stitches to close the wound. He could miss as many as three games. 
David Wesley overcame early foul trouble and had 13 points and night assists for the Hornets, who movnd past Cleveland and idle New York into nighth place in the Eastern Conference. 
Campbell put the Hornets ahead lo stay on a free throw that made it 82-81 with 3:36 left, and af'ter .lerrv Stackhouse missed a jumper on thr, other end, Campbell answered with an 11-footor from the left wing to push Charlotte's lead to three. 
Detroit was unable to pull even the rest of thn way, but the Pistons had a chance to tic it after Bobby Philis' foul shot closed the scoring with 11 seconds left. Hill missed a 12-f'oot baseline jumper and Charlotte got ilrn rebound, but Joe Dumars picked off a pass and put up a 40-footer that fell just short of the rim at the buzzer. 
that propelled the Raptors and sank thP 'v\'izards. The Haptors, 18-1 when leading after three, opened the final period with an 11-2 run for their thi1·d victory in four games. 
Christie went 4-for-6 from 3-point range in the game as part of his 8­for-13 shooting perfor­mance. He also went 8­for-10 from the free-throw line. ( 
The Wizards, losers of three straight and nine of their last 12, have been outscored bv 127 points in the fourth peri­od this season, and they've lost 10 games when leading after three. The Raptors entered play one game out of eighth place in the Eastern Conference in their bid for the franchise's first­ever playoff berth. But tho schedule does not favor them the rest of the 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
ILOST & FOUND I  STAYING IN SOUTH BENO FOR THE SUMMER??? Lovely five-bedroom, single family  RENT NEGOTIABLE' 2 bdrm 2 bath upper level @ col­lege park to sublet for summer.  BRAND NEW S O F A 4  I NEED graduation tickets please call me @ 271-8531  Love is not like a potato. You can't throw it out the window.  
house available for sub-lease.  Washer/dryer.  Call Joann @ 634­ SALE!  MOVING? LET US HELP!  Hi Kerry Smith.  
Lost: 1 00 CDs that were in a black  About a mile from campus.  3620.  1 piece to a house full.  
CaseLogic carrying case. Lost in  Safe neighborhood. Clean. Two  Forest Green and Beige Full Size  286-7094  Sure, my roommate gets head  
LaFortune the night of 2/26/99.  window air-conditioners.  House For Rent.  Sofa, from Brooks Brother's  injuries and then just ... wanders  
Monetary reward being offered if  Washer and dryer, stove, refrige.  Walk to Campus!!  Furniture Store, including matching  Sean -Kush erased them all.  off.  
found.  No questions asked.  Call 634-0562 for info.  4-5 Bedroom.  pillows, is great for any single or for  Sorry Erin ...  
Please call Brian at 4-1126 w/ any  Summer or Fall.  any apartment. Price is very nego­ Revers  This one goes out to all the amaz­ 
info.  FURN. ROOM;FURN. ONE BED­ Call 289-4712  tiable.  Must sell soon! Also, Forest  ing women in Lyons Hall section 2B  
ROOM APT;PRIVATE  Green and Beige Carpet piece, cul  To the person with those 100 Case  -you know who you are!  
Large; double pocket L.l. Bean  ENTRANCE.AIR, KITCHEN,LAUN­ 3 BDRM.DUPLEX  4 a single, that matches the sofa  Logic CD's: Face Reality -They  
backpack w/ Pietasters patch. $50  ORY,PHONE,UTILITIES INCLUD­ 1 MILE FROM CAMPUS  perfectly, is for sell! (Loft kit perfect  aren't getting returned  Shannon goes bananas.  
cash reward if returned w/contents.  ED,5 MINN. CAMPUS 272-0615  503 EDDY ST.  for a single is also available, along  
No questions asked.  APPLIANCES + W/D  with a University Ethernet Card!)  Lose weight now.Guaranteed.  Buongiorno, principessa!  
- call 634-1061  2 bdrm wlloft condo in Oak Hill. Close to campus. Fpl, pool. Avail.  273-8332  SENIOR CAN'T WAIT TO GRADU­ATE-EVERYTHING MUST  Call Arleen@ 277-1410 after 5pm  OK, this is the last time for this  
Lost Glasses: black, metal,  6/1. Grad. students only please.  SUMMER SUBLEASE  GO!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  year...(sniffle)... l'm getting all  
oval, Safilo frames; clip on  $700/mo. 1-509-926-8118.  @ COLLEGE PARK  Contact x1549 and leave message  Any sr.(s) looking 4 a rmmate in  choked up.  
sunglasses; black case.  CALL 243-5323  Chicago?  
If found call Paul @ 4-4765  Walk to school  LOFT $10 X2530  Call Mike 247-9035  I'd like to thank everyone in  
All size homes  3 BR House.  Siegfried 4B ... Sean, Jorge, Jim  
I KNOW YOU'RE OUT THERE' My blue L.L. Bean backpack was lost/stolen in parking lot  Starting at 185/month/person MMMRENTALS@aol.com 232-2595  Complete Remodel-Great Area. 1 mile to ND. AVAIL 5/1 to 8/1/99.  TICKETS  Englewood always up to no good! Beth  (both of then), CoCo, Rob Roy, for­give me if I forget anyone.  
b/t Lyons & Morrissey. Please call  Call 273-1717  I NEED GRAD TICKETS!  I have to pass on the movie,  Rob, congrats on your new job.  
4-2900 to return 1t; REWARD based on what's still in it. Thank you!  IT'S NOT TOO LATE Tri-level , 3 bdrm house, 1.5 mi.  OFF CAMPUS HOUSING ... FALL 1999  CALL KELL Y-243-8932 I NEED graduation tickets  I have to do my project tonight. Mike  And who could forget Cppucino, er ..Coppofella, er. ..whatever..  
from campus across from park with  4·8 STUDENTS...  Please call John @271-8531  THE FLORIDA EVANS  
Found: Insulin kit with glucometer in LaFortune. Go to Health Center  1.5 bath, FR with fireplace, 2-car garage. fenced back yard. A/C, stove, refrig, d/w, g/d and w/d. $995/mo.  SEVERAL CLEAN.SAFE PROPERTIES... CALL DAVE AT 291-2209  PERSONAL  SHOWBAND ANO REVUE 17 song Cd IS HERE!!!!  Kerry, you're the best production assistant out there. Thanks for everything.  
to claim.  683-5038 or 232-4527.  OFF CAMPUS HOUSING  When you need copies .  $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5  Mike. thanks to you too -B  
FALL 1999.. SMALL HOUSE  We're OPEN!!I  
WANTED  3-6 BDRM HOMES. SUMMER OR FALLFURN. STARTING  PERFECT FOR TWO STUDENTS...  THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center  available at LaFortune info desk and in some dorms.  Have a great summer everyone!  
AMERICAN FL YER trains top dollar paid, call Dave at 273-9015  $185/mo/person 272-6551 College Park Apartment tor rent during summer Please call 271-1533 if interested.  SHOAT DRIVE TO CAMPUS. DAVE 291-2209 FOR SALE  631-COPY Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm Sat; Noon-6:00pm Sun: Noon-Midnight  See www .nd.edul-mcurreri/cd. htm or email curreri.1 @nd.edu for details.  By the way, quick movie trivia tor you: What was the place that Dustin Hofman wanted to go in Rainman?  
....  FOR RENT  Willing to discountpfice! College Park Apartment for rent  NEW Rates Phone Cards 282 min. $20 call 258-4805  THE LAST REGULAR ISSUE OF  Hug an Observer staffer today.  My guess would have to be Kenneounk Maine.  
BED 'N BREAKFAST  during summer. Please call 271-1533 if  THE OBSERVER IS WEDNES­DAY, APRIL 28.  It's not supposed to be exciting, Connelly.  Whowouldn't want to go there?  
REGISTRY 219-291-7153  interested Wilting to discount price'  1980 Triumph convertible $3,500 (277-2684)  THE COMMENCEMENT ISSUE WILL BE ON FRIDAY, MAY 14.  But then, is it ever tor you?  Come on -ask a tougher one. That was pretty obvious.  

page 15

ThursJay, April 22, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS
~---------------------=-:..:...:....,;;::....:.:..::.=_-___:_c.....__:__~--'--'-'___::___-------~ 
¦ MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 


Indians defeat A's to tighten grip on AL Central 
A,M><:ia1ed l'rcss 
Cl.FYE! AND 
It's starting lo fonl morn and rnorf' likn I'J'J;i Pvnry 111inut11 at .larnbs Fidel. 
Hid1io Snxson hit a game­tying, two-run homer in the ninth inning and pinch-nmnPr .lolhcrt Cabrnrn scorml from lirst on a throwing error, giving tile Cl<'vnland Indians a :i-4 win ovnr tlw Oakland /\.tl1lnli1~s tonight. 
Tlrn Incl ians. who sLartHcl to co1111• hack l'rom a 4-0 d<ifirit with 1·onsnr11t.ivf' solo homf'rs in tho nighth. havn won 11 of 12 and al I 1-2 rnatdll'cl their h<1st slarl sinrn l lJhh. 
Holwrlo Alomar and Manny 
Haminiz hit hark-to-back 
homl'T"S in tlw Pighth off Doug 
.lo11ns af'lPr tlw Indians wore 
h I an k I'd O V C r Llw nI's t (i 2 -:l 
innings by (;ii IIPrPrlia. 
In tlw ninth, David .lustic1\ sin­
gl1HI of'!' Billy Taylor (()-1 l and 
S<•xson 1'11llowcd with his sncond 
l1011111r, a 41 !i-l'ont shot to right­
c:tint.tir that sHrll Urn 29lJLh 
straight sdl1111t crowd at .lacobs 
ricld into a l'rnnzy. 
Sandy Alomar singlod and was r!'placnrl by CabrPra. Knnny Lofton then laid clown a bunt in f'ront or the plate, but al'tcr pouncing on tho ball. catchPr /\. . .I. flinch lhrnw wide of 11rst and Urn ball rolled all the way inlo tho right-licld cornPr. 
By Urn timn Cabrora rounded third, mosl ol' Urn Indians already wcro on their way lo homo plate to meet him. It was thl\ same kind of scmw played out 17 tinrns at home in 191J5. when tlw Indians wont 100-44. 
Stnve !tend (1-0) pitched c11w inning for thn win. 
Ben Gri1ivn hit a three-run horner and Tony Phillips had a solo shot l'or Uw t\'s, who have lost livn ofsix on tlrn road. 
llnrndia limited Cleveland to ni1w hits -all singles -in 6 2-:{ innings. lln strur.k out livf' and walked on<1. 
Gri1we hit his lirst homer of the 
S('ason off Dwight Condon in the 
sixth inning, and l1hillips hit his 
l'ourlh in I.ho Lhird. 
Hnlrnrto t\lornar wnnt 3-for-4 
Support Your Notre Dame 
Rodeo Club! 
r----------------------,
I 
L----------------------~ 
I I  ....1'.a.•~·A.~VA-if'­HACIENDA  
I  ~.  ,,,-,,;~~RUTA~~•~  
I  •.  •  •  •  • &  '  
I  -~  ~  :  
I  ·w.-~~­ .t}  .-·  
I  . :,,.-. . .  . .  
I  
:oate  4/25/99  
1Location  5836 Grape Road  
IGroup  ND Rodeo Club  
1Phone #  256-5339  

Present this coupon on April 25 and 25% of your urchase will be donated to the club. 
The Department of Mathematics Proudly Presents The GE Prizes tor Excellence in Mathematica 
to 
Senior Honol"$ Mathematics Majors 
Brian Dean and Helga Schaffrin 
Senior Mathematics Major 
Nathan McGregor 
Junior Honors Mathematics Major 
Ryan Gendreau 
Junior Mathematics Major 

Katherine Huckabay 
and 
The Haaser Scholarship to 

Amanda Mueller 
and 
with his first homer and Hamirez hit his fifth of Um season. 
Gooden. the Indians' No. 5 startnr. was making his second start or the season and !irst sincn April 1 0 in Minnesota, wlwn he didn't gt1t out ol' th() lirsl. I le lim­ited the A's to three hits in the first five innings, but a couple pitches just off Urn corners and one uµ cost him in the sixth. 
Jason Giarnbi openod the sixth with a single off Gooden, who gol ahead of .John Jaha 1-2 before walking him. Grievn, who entered the game batting just .154 I.his srntson, I.hen drove a 2­2 curvcball from Coodnn ovnr the wall in center and under a picnic table l'or his lirst homer in 42 at-hats. 
Crieve, the AL Bookie of the 
Year in l 998, seems to enjoy the 
trips Lo Clevnland. lle's hitting 
.455 (15-t'or-'.-U) with two 
homers, eight doubles and 11 
llBls in nine games al Jacobs 
Fidd. 
Reds 7, Mets 4 
Greg Vaughn's two-run homer 
and Mike Cameron's Lwo-run 
double key(•d a six-run fourth 
inning for the Cincinnati Reds, 
who went on to beat the New 
York Mets 7-4 Lo night. 
The rally Look Denny Neagle 
o!T the hook in his first start for 
Cincinnati and matclrnd the 
biggest inning of the year for the 
RPds, who had a six-run inning 
against San Francisco on open­
ing day. 
\1asato Yoshii (1-2) pitched 
three scoreless innings before 
getting rocked in the fourth. 
Sean Casey led off with a sin­
gle, and Vaughn followed with 
his third homer of the season. 
Yoshii then walked the next 
three batters. 
Pokey Heese drove in a run 
with a sacrilice fly and, one out 
later, Cameron doubled in two 
more. Barry Larkin ended the 
scoring with an HBI single. 
Scott Sullivan (1-0) pitched 
three scoreless innings for the 
win, and Danny Graves worked 
1 1-J innings for his second 
save. 
Eddie Taubensee added a solo 
homer in the fifth for the Heels, 
who broke a three-game losing 
streak and won for just the sec­
ond time in their last eight home games. 


;,.!eagle, obtained in an ollsea­son trade with Allanta for sec­ond baseman Bret Boerne, went on the disabled list in spring training with weakness in his left shoulder. His return was unim­pressive. 
Neagle retired the first two batters on groundballs but then walked .John Olerud, and llobby Bonilla followed with his second home run in two days. 
Todd Pratt homered in the sec­ond and Roger Cedeno led off the third with a double. Neagle hit the next two batters to load the bases, and Cedeno scored on Hobin Ventura's groundout to make it 4-0. 
Neagle got out of' the inning 
with a strikeout and two ground­
balls, and retired the side in the 
fourth on three !lyouts before 
leaving for a pinch hitter. 
Giants 4, Marlins 0 

Armando Hios, playing in place of' the injurnd Barry Bonds, homered and scored twicn to lead the Giants to a 4-0 victory over the Florida Marlins on Wedrrnsday and help Joe Nathan win his major leagw\ debut. 
Rios hit his first honwr of' the season down the right-field li1w in tlrn first and singled in the fourth to start a thrcn-run inning that included an HBI doubln by Stan Javier and a two-run dou­ble by Ramon Martinez. 
.Javier's double was a routilrn fly ball that a ferocious wind tllrncd into an adventure for lnf'l fielder Preston Wilson. 
Bios, who battnd third in place of' Bonds, also threw out a nm­ner at the plate from right field in the seventh inning to prescrvn the shutout. 


Homes for Rent 
• 
Domus Properties has two, five, six and nine bedroom student housing available 

• 
Student neighborhoods close to campus 

• 
Security syste1ns provided 

• 
Well maintained homes 

• 
Maintenance staff on call 


The Kolettls Award In Mathematics to Eric Hatfi0ld  Availablefor the 1999/2000 school year  
and  Contact Kramer (219) 276-7020 or  
The Aumann Prize for First Year Honors Mafhematics to Kathleen Ponto  (219) 674-2571 or {219) 233-4509  

---------------~---, 
Page 16 The Observer• PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursdau, April 22, 1999 







CAMPUS MINISTRY@ 
. ,,. 
Calendar of Events 
Attention Seniors: 
Auditions for Senior Last Visit to the Grotto and Commencement Mass will be held at the Basi I ica of the Sacred Heart on Thursday, April 29th and Friday, April 30th at 4:00 p.m. 
Reaching Out to the Kosovar 

Refugees 
Donations will be.collected at 
Campus Ministry -103 Hesburgh Library, 
112 Badin Hall 
THIRD SUNDAY OF EASfER 
Weekend Preslders at Sacred Heart B Saturday, Apfll'r' 
5:00 p.m. ,,_, Rev. Rev. Jame 
Sunday, April· 
10:00 a.m. 
11:45 a.rn. 
Sunday Vespers 
7:15 p.m. Rev. James M. Lies, C.S.C. 

Scripture Readings 
1st Reading  Acts  2:14, 36-41  
2nd Reading  1 Peter  2: 20-25  
Gospel  John  10: 1-10  



One Last Consideration ... Jim Lies, C.S.C. 
Well, this is it! The end draws nigh for all of us. This ending means different things for different people. For the seniors it obviously means something quite different than it does to the younger folks among us. For the faculty and staff and administrators it has meaning, too. All of us are affected by it in some way. But just what do we take away with us. There was a message conveyed on the Senior Class Retreat two years ago which is apt for us all as we end the year and move in different directions for a time, maybe forever. It's a message that has been stabbed at in this column throughout the year. It's really the question of what really matters in the end? What's the constant that will hold us together in our separation and in our distance from one another? 
I'd like to think that those of you who take the time to read this col­umn already know. I'd like to think, actually, that it is so ingrained in the hearts and minds of every one of us in this community that it need not even be said. And yet, it would be wrong not to say it, not to proclaim it! Please God, it won't be a shock to anyone that the one constant, the one thing that matters, the one thing that will hold us all together is Jesus, and the love that God revealed in sending him to be among us as one of us. Oh, I know it may sound like pius piffle, and maybe a bit ethereal, but it doesn't make it any less true. 
For those who call themselves Christian, there is nothing more, noth­ing else we need to cling to than that. It isn't money, or an accumulation of friends, or even "good times" that will ultimately sustain us in our search for meaning and for happiness. It is only Jesus. Our leave taking of this place has us separated for a while, for some longer than others. But in the Lord, we are not really separated. Just as we gather united around the table now, we will again. Every time we gather to celebrate the Lord's supper, wherever we are, we gather together as one family. We are forever bound in Jesus and in Notre Dame. 
So whoever you are, whatever the circumstances around your depar­ture, whether it be for a few weeks before the summer session, or the sum­mer months or until the first home football game, Notre Dame will always be home. It is not, for you seniors, an ending, but a beginning of a life more wonderful and more blessed than you can now even ask for or imagine. Trust in the Lord's love for you and pursue God with the same fervor and hope with which you engage every pursuit. Have faith in the God who has brought you this far, and who will never leave you. 
From all of us at Campus Ministry may God richly bless you in these waning days of the semester and beyond; may God give you prudence, per­severence and wisdom as you enter into the rigors of final exams. And final­ly, know that all are welcome at the Library Office of Campus Ministry during finals week for free coffee and donut holes. Godspeed! As gift and prayer, especially to our seniors, we leave you with the words of Mrs. Charles Cowman and Mary Gorges: 
So now... we sail and something of what we may expect as we contin­ue our voyage we may infer from the past. Without doubt storms will come as they came in the bygone days. But we will give them firm and courageous welcome, for we have already weathered so many storms that we are unafraid of the wind and the tide, the lightning and the snow . 
And so we shall -when the Voyage is completed drop anchor where no storms come, but where the green swell is at last in the haven dumb, and we are forever out of the swing of the sea. 
We have come very safely -hitherto; 
And sometimes seas were calm, and skies were blue; 
Sometimes the wild waves rose -the tempest roared; 
But never barque went down with Christ on board. 
And so it shall be to the very end ­
Through ebb and flow, the one unchanging friend, 
Ruling the waves which sink at his command, 
Holding them in the hollow of his hand. 
There comes an hour, when, every tempest o'er 
The harbour lights are reached, the golden shores: 
Never, oh nevermore to fret or fear ­
Christ, give us faith to praise thee even here! 
CJ 
a 
~ 
V; 
b ~ 
~ ~ ~ ~ 
~ 
a 
~ 
V; 
• • • 
l¦I 
0MPUS 


MINISTRY 

Thursday, April 22, 1999 The Observer• PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 


SJudentAlumniRl:1An<)NS GRoUI' 
'f 

Saturday, April 
Come to the 



ALL-CLASS PICNIC 
Honoring Graduating Students 
You will have a chance to network with Alumni Representatives from across the country. 

No matter what you're doing in the future -grad school, volunteer or military service, full-ti1ne employment, or summer internship -Find out how you can get involved in the Alumni Club ofyour destination city/state/area. 
Lookfor signs ofyour state ofresidence at the 
Joyce Center Fieldhouse 11:30am -1 :30pm 
Enter througl1 Gate 3 
MUSIC AND DOOR PRIZES ""' 
Prizes donated by the Alumni Association and Adidas. 
Sponsored by: No charge for non-meal Alumni Association card holders. Just bring SARG, & University Food Services your student ID. 
page 18 The Observer• SPORTS Thursday, April 22, I999 
¦ SOFTBALL 
¦ WOMEN'S TENNIS 
SMC splits two doubleheaders 
Belles fall short at 
By TRACY HARBER 
Spuns \'vrir,r 
Wl'dnl'sday, fifth-ranked Saint Mary's took on sixth­ranked Albion Collf'ge in anotbrr doubleheader. win­ning tlrn first game 8-0 nnd losing the S!'cond. 6-5. 
I.as!. Sunday, Saint Mary's softball h'am was shut out, 0­
5. in tlw first part of a double­lwader against .Goslwn College lwf'o1·e tlw Sf'cnnci gamf' was rnllPd off due to rain with the Belles up 2-0. 
"The first gamp WP came out as a tcum with fire in our eyes," said froshman Rachel Dce1\ "ready to potmre on our prey." 
In the first game Kristin ~artin took the mound for the Belles. As it turned out, she got pl!-'nty of' insuranee i'rom the start as she, Melissa llayes, Sarah !Vlarlin, Jennifer Wyatt and Trish Klorkner all 
¦ OLYMPICS 
got runs in the first inning. bringing the score Lo 5-0. 
The offense got bolter in the second inning. as Sarah Martin. Kristin Martin and Klor:kncr all got nms puslrnd the IPad up to 8-0. 
"We played woll." said Klockner, a junior. "We hit the ball and had good defense in tlrn first game. In the second game tlrny just started hitting the ball too," 
In the second game, Albion got off to a quick start by scor­ing one run the first inning. In the ser:ond inning the Belles scored runs by Elise !Iall, Katy Hay and Diane Andrews. 
"We kept up our intPnsity during second game, but the last thrno innings Albion hit the ball where we wernn't," said Deer. 
A ciouble play by Deer and Hayes quickly ended the sec­ond inning with the Belles in the lead. 3-1. But in the snv­
Asso<:iaied P re,s 
Saying that Olympic leaders haci shown "tepid support for reform," a powerful senator asked Tuesday for monthly updates on changes the International Olympic Committee was making in the wake of its worst srandal. 
Arizona Republican John McCain told IOC president Juan Antonio Samaranch that "sig­nificant skepticism" remained in Congress and among the U.S. public that the Olympic commit­tee would enact "comprehen­sive and meaningful reform." 
:v!cCain, who chaired a Senate Commerce Committee hearing on the Salt Lake Olympic bribery scandal last week. repeated that he was dis­mayed that the IOC had failed to embrace the recommenda­tions of a special ethics panel 
headed  by  former  Senate  
Majority  Leader  George  
Mitchell.  

He said he also was con­cerned that the IOC was drag­ging its feet on restructuring 
and other internal changes, and that the whole process still answered to Samaranch. 
"The tepid support for reform is further exemplified by the apparent lack of independence of the IOC reform process, and the slow pace at which the IOC effort is prnceeding," McCain wrote to Samaranch. "As a result, I request that you, as the individual responsible for the IOC, provide the committee with a monthly update of the progress of the IOC reform e!Tort." 
Ten IOC members have resigned or been expelled in the scandal, which involved a mil­lion-dollar scheme to buy votes in Salt Lake's successful quest for the 2002 Winter Games. 
Last month, the IOC estab­lished an ethics commission with a majority of outside mem­bers and a task force, IOC 2000, to revamp its membership, vot­ing practices and public accountability. 
But the ethics commission is not scheduled to meet until next month. and only a quarter of 
enth inning Albion scored more runs to tie the game up 

Midwest Invitational 
Nandini Chaturneilula. No. 3
U.S. Senator seeking IOC reform 
.Beckv Kremer won tho first sAt 
and thnn scored t!H) last run in the eighth inning to end the 
By ANGELA FOX

game in tlwir favor. 5-<i. ''The pitr-hers pitclrnd rnally 
Spons W1itec well," said Klockncr. "Them is not mucb you can do when 
..Last weekend the Belles they hit the.spots." 
made it to the Midwest lnvitatioMl. an invitation thev
By the end of both games, 
did not receive last year. •Andrews had one IU>I, one sin­
"It was a privilnge and honor
gle and a run. Martin had to be asked," said freshman
three singles and three runs. 
player Annie Knish. "W(1 were
Hall had one run, whilr. 
all very excited t.o be going." 
Klockncr had thren RBIs, The 13elles were ranked
three singles and two runs. lr..wer 011 the lineup but the
Megan O'Keefe had two HB!s. invitational helped prepare
and one single. Doer had two tliem;for thei:r next few meets.
HB!s, and two singles. Hayes had ono RBI, four singles, and They were also able to see how their conference comp~tUors
two runs. Kristin Martin had ono RBI, one single, and two 
played, giving them a feel for runs. Ray had one RBI, two 
the M1AA cnnforence tourna­ment'~lfiihg in. 'i'J.'Weck.
singles and two ruus. Saint Mary's will return to 
On Friday, Saint Mary's action when they face 
fought in a dual meet against Defianco on Saturday, April 24 
Wa1>b:ington lJnfverE;ity itnd at l p.m. 
Albion College. The Belles lost the meet againstWashington 0­
9. No. 1 Ka.tie Vales lost to Katie Abrams (2-6. 7-6). No. 2 K.nis.h lost both sets 3-6 to 
7-6 but then lost the next two Lhe 24 members of the reform 
sets to P1iga Vahani (1-6. 2-6).panel have been announced, 
No. 4 Betsy Gemmer was ono month after the IOC gener­
defeated by Kat CapiOzo (1-6, al assemblv. 
3~6). No. 5 TaylorJarrin had a. IOC 2000 is scheduled to 
tough match against Shilpamake a preliminary report in 
Reddy losing (0-6, l-61 and No. June and have its final recom­
6 Krista Eastburn lost (1-6, 1-6) mendations ready by 
to Keli Leaf. December. 
The. No. 1 doubles team In addition to Samaranch. 
Vales°Knish lost aii 8 gameMcCain asked IOC vice presi­
pro-set to Chaturbedula-Vahani dent Anita OeFrantz and U.S. 
4.;8, while No. 2 Kremer­Olympic Committee president 
G.emmer had a dose match Bill Hybl, both members of the 
against Abrams-Copiozo, but reform commission, to provide 
ldsf 6·8. No, 3 Ja.rrin°Eastburn their own monthly reform 1• were. defeated. by Le.af-Robin updates. 
Br~hrstock 0-8. 
The Belles lost their second meet of the day to conference competitor Albion College 1-8. No. 1 Vales was defoatod in two sets, 1-6. 0-6 along with No. 2 Knish. 0-6, 2-6. No. 3 
Krenrnr had the only win nf' the meet. The first sot was 6-2 and then she won the second set in a tie bniaker with a score of 7-5 making tho sot score 7-6. No. 4 Gemmer lost both sets 4­6 and No. 5 Jarrin lost in a tie breaker the lii'sl set and 4-(1 in the second. No. 6 Eastburn was defeated by the scores of (3-6, 0-6). 
No. 1 Vales and Knish were defeated 0-8. No. 2 Kremer­Gemmer lost 4-8 as did the No. 3 pair of .Jarrin and Easthurn by the score 5-8. 
On Saturday, the Belles had their closnst meet, losing 4-5 to Carleton. Many of the games were very dose and could have gone either way. 
No. 1 Vales lost to Melissa. Rohrer (3-6, 2-61 while No. 2 Knish defeated Sara Baker in straight sots (6-3, 7-5). No. 3 Kremer lost (6-7, 5-7) to Liz Ames. No. 4 Gemmer won ((,-4. 6-2) against Sara Bertelsen. No. 5 Jarrin was defeated by Erin Campbell (0-6, 6-71 and No. 6 Eastburn won her match (6-3, 6-1) over Martina Muehlegger. 
Both No. 1 doubles Vales­Knish and l'\o. 3 .Jarrin­Eastburn lost to Rohrer-Ames and Barker-Muehlegger 5-8. The No. 2 team Kremer­Gemmer won a close match against Bertelson-Campbell 9­7. 




.------------­
Thurn.by, April 22, 1999 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 

part of pass covcrag,i is the pass rush.''


Football 
With Williams' return next fall and the addition or incom­
continued from page 24 
ing freshman Gerome Sapp. dcfp11sivP front will also who is considered the top high improv1\ tlw snmndary. With a school safety in th1~ country, 
lwlll'r 1>11ss rush. Llw Irish will the Irish will be talented and IJt' abll' Ln play morn aggTl'S­deop across Lim secondary. All sivdy down-li1dd. of this talent and depth will bn "I don't know if we an• called into question early as the Irish face three top offens­
goingyi Im_ a ht:gc .~1rnn-u_p t,iam, Davw said. I dun t es. think that is in our b,~st int,~r­"We'll lind out how good we nsts this year. !focausl' or tlw are right away," Davie said. pass rush that I think w11 are "Bncausc we go against sonrn going to havt\, it will allow us lal1rntnd receivers right off the 
to piny Zll!W covnragc much bat in Michigan, Michigan mort• aggrPssiv1dy. A major Stale and Purdue." 
David Spade Sophie Marceau A c.ornedy about a guy who would do anything to get the girl of his dreams -and didI 


L.os und 
ALCOn Hffitrr~IIME!fl P1U1i1S 1Wl'lllfRICf.AJINIMO E'11!Rl~NME'1! FIIMIII lllWIY JEFF POllACK DA\110 SPADE SOPHIE MARCEl,U \OST&FOOND' PA!RO: BRUEL AATIE IJJIGE MITC!lEll WHITFU1DooMARTIN SHEEN 
L1 ~!JHNOfBHti=:;:a.,MORRl[EIS[N~ =:~:::~:::u::J_:::1w,qCMEEKS1DA\11~~~;~,;~~ 
STARTS APRIL 23 AT ATHEATRE NEAR YOU.


------· _________________________________. 
¦ NHL 
Blues, Coyotes set to face off 

Associated Press 
l'IIOENIX 
Nobody concerns tho Phoenix Coyotes like St. Louis defonse­m en Al Macinnis and Chris l'ronger, with good reason. The two senm tu always be on the ice, and thPy cause headadrns for oppononts at both ends or the rink. 
Macinnis took morr. shots ·(314) this season than all but thrne otlrnr players -all for­wards -and scornd goals on 
20. including 11 on the power play. lie got enough assists on rebounds to load NIii. dnfonsn­men in scoring wilh (12 points. l'ronger t11anH1d wilh him to give the Blues a matchless pair at the l.Jlue !inti. 
Pronger also shadows the other Lcam's best scorer, and thnt moans a rematch with Keith Tkachuk in the first game or the Bluos-Coyotlls first-round playoff series Thursday night in Phoenix. 
Prnngor had earner highs in goals ( 1 :11. assists (33) anrl points. lie also spent morn Lime on the ice thau anyone in the league, averaging 30.61 min­utes, and Macinnis was fourth at29.12. 
When the Blues beat Phoenix 
(1-4 on April 15 1.o win the sea­
son series 2-1-1, they scored 
four power-play goals. l'ronger 
had one and an assist, and 
Macinnis had three assists. 
"They both have hard shots, 
and it seems like they can put 
them on the net through traf­
lic," Phoenix goaltender Nikolai 
Khabibulin said. 
Tkachuk, a career-long left wing being moved to center because of Jercmv lloenick's injuries, doesn't l'e~I centering for Dallas Drake and Shane Doan will be much different. Perhaps that's because he 
AFP Photo 

Blues defenseman Al Macinnis' prolific scoring has caught the eye of the Phoenix Coyotes as the Stanley Cup playoffs begin. 
knows the 6-foot-(,, 220-pound Prongcr will be thAre no matter where he lines up. 
"You'rngoingtogetoneoftlm two best defenscmen in the league," Tkachuk said. "Macinnis will probably get the Norris Trophy, and Pronger's tough to play against. He plays it hard, he plays it physical, and he's got such a long reach it's tough to beat him one-on-one." 
Pronger's take on the matchup was equally compli­mentary: "Any time you get to play against an elite player it's a lot of fun and it makes for a lot of competition and emotional play, and I think that's what fans pay to watch." 
But the coaches don't expect things to remain cordial. 
"I think the emotion will come out immediately," Blues coach Joel Quenneville said. 
"I don't think it'll take too long," said Jim Schoenfeld of the Coyotes. "They're both high­ly competitive and they're both nasty competitors; they have a mean streak and they have a lot of courage, and it will be battle worth watching." 

The Coyotes finislrnd l'ourth in the Westnrn Confernnce and have home ice for this series. But they lost five in a row before a victory in their f'inal game gave them 90 points for the second time in franchise his­tory. 
The Blues knocked Anaheim out of fifth by going !Im othrr direction -posting a 6-1-2 record in April and winning their last four road games. 
They also got forward Geoff Courtnall back for the last three games of tlrn regular season after he missml 57 games with an injury, and the Coyotns played their last two without Ro1rnick, who needed recon­structive surgery on his jaw arter a hit by Derian I latclrnr of' Dallas. 
Throw in the Winnipeg-Phoenix record of playoff futility -the franchise has bnen elimi­nated in the lirst round its last seven times in the playoffs, and 11 of 13 tinws ovPrall -and it looks like a waltz for St. Louis. But the Bluns, who swept Los Angeles in the first round last April. an' cautious. 
... 
... 

Thursday, April 22, 1999 

page 20 The Observer. PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Presents... 

Thursday, April 22nd 
• Voll r • Pic1t' ­
4 ·30-~:;<
. .....•.. 

Libl'o.r··· 
,' ·•·-:::· \>.: 


usic: I· ~-·· 
',", ..... ··.·.··:·c·· ·-:-··-:-:-:-::.•.. 
m 1 Lib< AP
p
r.•~ ;; .. 
1ve-In T 
:00, Library 
'Ar1naged 
_,,. 
cOme to the SMCnic fof:.~ 
Bur2ers. hot do2s. cotton candv. popcorn. snow cones. and more! 
Co-Ex tickets available at the picnic 
There will also be a caricaturist on the 2reens!! 
Thursday, April 22, 1999 

'/9 '1/MMIR 'O 'OM/THING 'IFFIRINT 
BROADEN 
YOUR HORIZONS 
work, T R A V E L 
: and haue fun
·--------------­
make new 
FRIENDS••••••••• 
lnternatlonallse 
•
-----'IOUR RESUME • • 
with BUNAC's WORK /N 8RITIIIN Program 
For more Info: P.O. Box 430, Southbury, CT, 06488 1-800-462-8622 
The Observer• SPORTS page 21 
I 
Elimination Continues 
I 

Bookstore 
continued from page 24 
with some key plays, ending the hall' with an 11-8 lead. 
Playing big in the lane. Craig led Primetimc in the first half with seven baskets, eight rebounds and two stuffs. 
Ileld scoreless by tough defense, Empy and Hughes were quiet ol'fcnsivcly. Jani nailed three baskets and Ganske added one, 
In tho s1icond half, Primctirnc slowly pulled ahead and sPcurecl the win. 21-14. 
"At the half', we talked about working on our defense," said Craig. "Our theme is 'don't IN your own man score."' 
Playing a physical game, Prinrntimc sent Seth Green and the Wondermutts to the foul line midway through the half with a 15-10 lead. SPth Green and the Wondermutts were unable to take advantage of the foul shots and wore one of four from the line. 
Craig's potnnt inside and out­side shooting gave Primetime two more basknts in the second half' as the center end11d with nine points and 13 rebounds. Jani ended with five baskets. and Ganske and Hughes had three each. 
"It was great to gHt to play a team like l'rirnelirne," said Barca. "We got lo come out here and see what w11 could do." 
\'Vith tho win, Primetimc advancPs to tlrn final eight and will take on the wimwr of tlrn Burn and Shoot/Majesties match-up. 
At the No. 2 spot. Malicious Prosecution took on 15th­ranked Wax. 
Wax. with players Larry Zimont, Mike Wilcox, Dan Arnbrico, A.J, Schiavone and Gerick Short kept the game competitive throughout, tying the score at seven latn in tho first half. Malicious Prosecution with Jeremy Cole, .John Nemeth, J.C. Coury, Jamny 
Haigh and .Jonathan Van llandnl went on a run to 1md the half strong wilh an 11-7 cushion, 
"Tim ganrn started out prPtly light," said Coln. "Wn traded baskets !'or most of tlrn first half." 
Capitalizing on hnight advan­tages in the lane, Malicious Prosecution rnli('([ on inside shooting for much of' the first hall'. Wax trim! to com1Hmsatn on tlrn insidn hy double-t,~am­ing, but thn No. 2 tPam, with its vcrsatiln offpnsc, st!!ppl'd up its 1wrinrntn shooting and sealed the win 21-11. 
"Tlwrn wc1re a coupln of mis­matches inside, so wn tried to take advantag,i al thn post," said Cole. "Wlwn they startPd to double-down, wn kicked the ball out and worn able lo get some points that way." 
Cole Ind the offense with nine points. 
Malicious l'rosncution will take on tho winrrnr of Lim Coco­Buttnr/Mtw-Tang Clan ganw in the Hound of Eight. 


See tomorrow's Observer for. more coverage of the Bookstore Basketball tournament. 

WANT FREE ND TICKETS? 
Getting a year's worth of stuff into a car Is like trying to 
RYDER 
cram 10 pounds into a S-pound sack. You've crammed 
FRS 
enough for a while. Give yourself abreak. 
Call Ryder and truck U-at the right price. www.yellowtruck.com 
..

keyplay.com
Advanced reservation required. Present this coupon at the time of your rental. ,
r 
Coupon only applicable to basic rate of truck rental. which does not Include taxes, fuel and optional Items. One coupon per rental. Coupon su\Jject to truck avalla\Jlllty and Ryder Moving Services standard rental requirements. Coupon 
Proud Sponsors of keyplay.com in
expires December 31, 2000. 
I $10:I 
Coupon not valid with any other offer, discount or promotion. 
the 1999 Bookstore Basketball 
Discount One-Way Local
I Off I 
I Moves 1-800-GO-RYDER Moves I Tournament Ryder" Is aregistered trademark orRyder System, Inc. and Is used under license. 
Note to Dealer: l. Enter discount on rates screen. 2. Enter Coupon I.D. on payment screen. NC030
I I 
L 3. Attarh to rental agreement and send In with weekly report. RA Number______ 
.J 


page 22 The Observer• SPORTS Thursday, April 22, 1999 
¦ BASEBALL 
Steady climb for Irish continues against Chippe-was 
By ALLISON KRILLA 
Senior Sports Writer 
St1we Stanley finally may havt' found his place on the Notn• Dam<' baseball team -in tlw !Pad. 
i\fwr stepping into tlrn start­ing ('t'Hlt'r lirld position for the Irish. tlw l'n~shman began his stPady rlimb to the top. 
i\11 0-for-i-7 start at the tlw platP has turrwd into l 3-for-18 in Notn' Damp's last thrne con­tnsts. and two Big East rookie­ol'-tlw-\\PPk awards for Stan!Pv. 
Tlw Jpf't-handnd lnaduff man\ .:B3 avnragP ranks fifth on the tPam. lwhind veterans like Brant Ust. Jeff Wagner. Alec Porzc,I and Jnl'f J<'<,lker. Tlw sp<wdswr IPads tlw team with 16 sLOIPn bases in 21 atlPmpts. 
Stanley's consist<'ncy also has bnen a plus for Paul Mainieri's squad, which has seen s<wPral kPy players f'all to injuries throughout tlw season. Stan!t1y is 01w of' only three players to play in and start all 37 gan1<1s for the Irish thus far. 
"Every game we've had mul­tiple freshmen in the lineup," said Porzel. "Of course they do act like frnshmen sometimes, but they've matured fastPr than I think anyone expected them to." 
Tonight Stanley leads the 
Irish (29-9) against Central 
Michigan (14-21) at Frank Eck 
Stadium, with a chance for the 
squad to e(Jual the 30-9 mark 
set by the 1990 and 1994 teams 
as the fastest to 30 wins in 
Notre Dame history. 
"We're just taking it one 
game at a time," Porzel said. 
"After starting the season 1-3 
we didn't think about [the 30­
win mark\." 
Notre Dame faces a Central :vtichigan team with a dismal 2­13 road record, which may prove to he an asset for the Irish. 

Offensively. the Chippewas are led by second baseman Scott Pieratt's 10 homers and 36 RBI. The Irish also pnek a powerful offensive punch paced by Ust's 15 hornn runs and tPam leading .414 batting avr,r­agr. 
Since his return from a foot injury. Wagner has nexed his muscles at the plate, drilling seven clingers and compiling a .354 average with 20 RBI. 
The tHam is also riding high following Tuesday's 14-4 pounding of l\lichigan at Old Kent Park, thn home of tho West Michigan Whitecaps (sin­gle-A affiliate of the Detroit Tignrs). The win representPd Notre Dame's 25th in thP last 
. 28 games. 
Scott Cavey (J-1 l threw five shutout innirigs, and scattered seven hits and no walks through six innings in an 82­pitch gem. 
Senior lelly Chris McKeown earned his first career save with two unearned runs on three hits and two strikeouts in the final three innings. 
"We haver.'t had any real big stars this season, but we've done the little things that win base­ball games," Porzel said. 
So with 29 games in the win col­umn, strong pitching and a hard­hitting line­up, the Irish are right where they want to be -in the 
lead. 
Use Observer classifieds. 
-
University Laundry and Tanning 
1813 South Bend Ave. Campus Shoppes Shopping Center 
FREE Dryers all of May!!!! 
BOOK SEARCH 
• 
Used, rare and out-of-print books 

• 
Initial cost of $2.00 


. 
C 
Nationaflv -circulated ad 
• 
Success rate of 50% ~ 

• 
Time Required: 2 months 


ERASMUS BOOKS 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (2 I 9) 232-8444 

To pay for all the essentials traditional financial aid won't cover, get the AcademicEdgesr" Loan. Low interest rates. Easy to apply. Make no payments in school. Flexible repayment after you graduate. 
!J£?i£€P.tft.dge· 
Call toll-free 1-877-310-3456 for more information. http://AcademicEdge.ChelaFinancial.com 
©1999 Chela Financial 


Thursday, April 22, 1999__ _ The Observer• TODAY page 23 
HOROSCOPE

SLURRED SPEECH DAN SULL'VAN EUGENIA LAST 
























FRIDAY,APRIL 23, Jim 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON nus want to do. Getting angry won't DAY: Shirley Temple BJ.ad;. Roy Omi­~lillylhing. 000 son. Valerie Bertinelli, Jan Hl)Ob, VIRGO <Aug. 23-Scpl 22.): Don't 
Blair Brown, Pierluigi Martini, be dishearteaed if your romantic p,irt· William Shakespeare, Lee Majoni ner lets you down. You will mttl I\C'W 
fuppy Birthday: You won't have polenlia.l mates while traveling or by much time for your per110nal life if sigrting !'P for courses or lectures of you want to be successful profe<ai,on,­~LKeeping busy will be the key.ally. Try to make amends by putting 000 aside some time to vacation with .l.,IBRA (Sept. U-Oct. 22): Prob­loved ones. The more you prepare lems,with Y!'ut ears,~ or throat them for your hectic sdledule, the less m&y plague you If Y0\1 haven't been difficulty you'll have whffl it corncs taking proper cue oi yoursel(. It'• to personal matters. You wW have the time to let your priortties ,1raight. discipline to accomplish what you set Your health is more important than out to do, but if you ore aidetnd<ed anything else. 0000 • . by emotional concerns, you'll miss . SCORPIO (Oct. 23-No.-. 2.1): your target. Your numbers: 7, 11, 25, "l'ou11 have problems with your lover 38,40, 47 It you've been busy taking care of 
ARIES (Much 21-April 19): You dhers and not pa~ any' •~on 
FOXTROT BILL AMEND will make headway professionally if lo him or her. You 11 have to do 10me fast ~i£ OU WW\ lo _..,., 'dti,;
you 1peak up. Discuss your intffl­y ....~...~ 
tions and make your suggestions. problem.
f'ETER D,'OOY, [)oN'T 
Romance can develop through col­SAGITTARIUS (tilOY. 22-Dcc. 21): leagues and clients. Be pradical for • You may need to put In a liU!e fNer­
PETER ISN'T Go1N(", To PLAY You 1UST AsSIJMED
PETER DADDY, I 
FOX! BE So CLUE•
IN ToDAY'S GAME, oR ANY HE WAS A STAR. THE
Fo'X! DoN'T KN<>W 
change. 00000 .arne. Your effor,ts will pay off. You'll
'(OU l>A LESS. rov ACT
'YOU DA How To TELL 
<in-lER GAME, MoST Lll<EI.Y. TRUTH JS HE'S NoT. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 'The get the recognition you deserve and MAN.' rOV ll·IIS 
changes going on in your personal you11 feel good about the job you did. life will be emotionally cfraining. 00000. 
MAN! Ltl<E No1H1NG
HE'S llfE Low GUY oN Tl-IE 
CHAN6ED.
GENTLY. 
ToTEM PoLE ... Fou!OH STR1N6, 
\ 
Don't sit back feeling sony for your· CAPRICORN (Dec. 22.-Jan. 19): I 
1F THAT... VARSff'I' BASEBALL'S 
self. Get out and get 1ome good · It's time lo have some fun. Take ron­IIES1&NATED 8ENCH·WAAMER. 
advice. The only time you're wasting trol oi your life. It' ¦ up to you to make 
I [~ 
is your own 00 yourself happy. Travel, entertainment GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Mooey llld pampenng yowself should !ill be 
~ .., l/ 
you aren't expecting will come your oo your danrecazd. 000 way. Be careful if you have b travel. AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Fcb. 18): Get ~~ Delays due_ to transportation prob­bade lo basics. You've been running lems are evident. Changes made to yourself ragged tryini; to do too your home will,be benefid.11. 0000 much /or too many. Titls is not the CANCER (June 2.1-July 22): Don't time to overdo it financially or emo­try to impress others by making large tionally. Look at your situation realis­donations you can't really afford. licall .000 Opposition will occur if you don't rfsru (Feb, 19-M.m:h 20): Plea­consult your loved ones before _you sure trips will give you a new attitude
DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS 
make decisions that will affect them towaro life. You need to spend '°""' all.000 time relaxing with friends. Forget LEO (July 23-Aug. 22.): You'll go your troubles for a whlle. When you 
BUT OUR !"\OTTO IN 
crazy if you try to please everyone get bad< to them, you'll view them today. Take ~-to de:tlle wnat you ilifferently. 000
t-\t..YC>E IT WI\$ WRONG 
Mf>..RKE.TING IS, "IT'S CU5TOME.R$ A PRODUCT 
TO PP-Ot'\l5E. OUR 
BETTER TO A5K FOR
E 
i 0 
FORGIVENESS T\.\AN TO 
.¦ OF INTEREST
THP..T HA5N'T BEEN 
,~; 
' 

SEEK PERl"\l5SION."
DESIGNED 'r'ET. 
Students for Environmental Action are hosting a 
µ_9spita.lity,Juncheon today at the Center for Social Concerns from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. The cost is $3 at the door. 
:~it' Margarita Lopez-Maya, Kellogg Institute Visiting Fellow, will present a lecture ''Popular Protest in N1:1oliberaJyenezuela"todo.y at 4:15 p.m. in room C-103 of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
i 
CROSSWORD ACROSS 33 1961 chimp in 60 Introductory space course, in 1 Overwhelm 
college34 Absinthe flavor & Prince in "The 61 Former country 35 #1 spot
Arabian Nights' name 
Entertainments" 36 Iniquity locales 62 Commercial 11 Word of 37 Unappealing bovineindecision 40 Examination 
Wanted:
63fever reading,14 Mischief-maker format maybe1s String quartet 41 On 64 Buck of note member 42Abitdaft 65 Letters from 16 Popular cable 43 Driver's license 
overseas
channel datum 
Reporters
11 Start trouble 44 Sauce source 
20Probation DOWN
45 Gentle touch 21 Best-selling 
46 Straw hat 1 Lady Macbeth's 22 Over: Prefix 
problem 23 Actor Wheaton 48 -de mer 2 Piece of 
and
24 Challenging 49 Actress Peeples 
absorbent potato chip so Smart dresser material quantity 51 Comic strip 3 Lets go 28 Go on a "--& Janis" 4 Moneymaking gamboling spree 55 Wall array of venture 32 A welcome sight? song 5 Royal insomnia 
photographers.
cause 6 Profil ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 7 Suggestion 
Puule by Henry Hook 
&Low 9 Little one 27 Montaigne 45 Syndicate bigwig 54 Bonanza finds 
Join 
~-+;;.+--'-l 10 Coolidge's Veep output 47 Ball material 55 Emergency call 11 One who's left 28 Comprehensive 48 He took two 56 Popular Saab 
hanging book lists tablets model 12Texas--29 Hooded jacket 50 Forest growth 57 Choice marble 13 "Undeniably" 30 Aid for the 51 Competent 58 Trumped-up 
The Observer
18 It might go into a anemic 52 Balance story pot 
31 1899 Eduardo di 53 Movie princess 59 Red topper 
t9Chose Capua melody 
~.:::..i.:..:.i-..:....J1..,.• -+--+--t--t--t 23 Valuable 
32 A real man?insect-eater Answers to any three clues in this puzzle
35 V.1.P. on the 
Staff.
24Clog are available by touch-tone phone: 
Titanic's
25 Western Athletic 1-900-420-5656 (9511: per minute).
casualty list 
Conference sch. Annual subscriptions are available for the 
38Smooth
-4-+-+--• 26 Some musical best of Sunday crosswords from the last groups 39 Autumnal stone 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 


Q]) Q]) Q]) 
Notre Dame Bas vs. Central Mich· ~....,~..,. Thursday1i April
6:0llpm

Eck Stadium 
-
a 

.-------------------------------------~--------------------------­
-· -----­

Hoop Dreams 
¦ Allen Iverson scored 25 points in the 76ers' 80-78 win over the Celtics. 
.. 
PORTS 
p. 14 

page 24 --
Thursday, April 22, 1999 


¦ BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL xxvm 
Stormy weather fails to keep top seeds down 
By KERRY SMITH 011 tlw offonsive. Sporrs Wrir~r Worjek came uµ with a quick steal within seconds of the 
Bookslore BaskPlball's Sweet ganw's st.art and sRnl. the ball 16 round was cut short to McDermott for a quick layup W.-dnesday because of danger­at the other end ol' the court. ous weather conditions. 13ack on defense, Seth Green 
As the first two games of the and thr, Wondermutts took ovr,ning finishr,d and other control of the ball again after teams began to warm up. rain Brannan brought down a pournd down on thr Stepan rebound and put the ball in the courts and lightning lit up the hoop for a 2-0 lead.
... 
sky. "We played with a lot of 
"\N1i've never stopped a hPar!." said Barca. ''\Ne'ro not Bookstore game because of the most talented team by any rain," said head commissioner means. but we gave I00 per­Brendan Poe. "We spoke 1o the cPnt effort." rPforecs and the players and Primetirne, .with Haam .Jani, because of thn lightning felt it Garret Ganske, Kevin Hughes, was unsafe for everyone to Mike Empy, and Steve Craig, continur playing." answered quickly when 
Primetimr, and Malicious Ganske brought the ball down Prosecution were able to finish the court and delive.rnd a and win their games, but the behind-the-back pass to Jani remaining six games in the for the quick score. round will be played tonight. Seth Green and the 
Seth Green and the Wondermutts forced several Wondermutts madr, the tour­turnovers and kept Primetime nament interesting as it tried on the dr,fcnsive while going on to unseat the reigning champi­a scoring run for the 5-2 lead. on team Prinwtimr,. "It was one of those nights 
Top-rankPd Primetime start­when our offense was a little ed the first half with posses­sloppy," said Craig. "They were sion of tlw ball. but that did not good athletes -very physical. stop the 16th-ranked team of They forced our turnovers." Gerry Barca, Pat McDermott, Primetime settled down late J\nlhony Brannan, John Minne in the first half and came up 
The Observer/Peter Richardson 

and assistant men's basketball 
Primetime's Garret Ganske scored three points and pulled down nine rebounds in the No. 1 team's win over
coach Doug Worjek from going see BOOKSTORE/ page 21 
Seth Green and the Wondermutts Wednesday. 
¦ FOOTBALL 
Experience and depth highlight secondary position 
By MIKE CONNOLLY  tions for the year.  tion is still up in the air. Last  
Associate Spons Editor  Against Boston College last  year's starting corner Brock  
year, Cooper forever wrote  Williams has missed most of  
In football, there are two  himself' into the pages of Irish  spring praclice dur, to a viola­ 
things you can't coach: depth  lore with his game-saving  tion of team rules and injury.  
and experience.  tackle of Eagle running back  In his plac,i, three players  
Luckily for Irish secondary  Mike Cloud. Cooper dashed  have battled f'or playing time.  
coach Lou West, he has been  past the defensive line  Lee Lafayette emerged as the  
blessed with both these  untouched to take down the  front-runner in the narlv  
uncoachable !'actors in his  senior ,tailback and preserve  spring but has since bnei'1  
first season under the Dome.  the five-point victory.  foiled by an injury.  
At safety, Irish fans can feel  Strong safety Sanders is no  Freshman Clifford Jef'l'Prson  
secure in returning starters  stranger to hard hitting either.  and walk-on Shane Walton,  
Deke Cooper and A'Jani  The fifth-year senior f'rom  who led the Irish soccer team  
Sanders. Despite the loss of  Houston, Texas, finished sixth  in goals last year, havn taken  
Benny Guilbeaux to gradua­ on the team with 58 tackles,  advantage of' Llrn opportunity  
tion and Tony Driver's return  including two for losses.  they have br,en given and  
to offense, thn safeties still  Sanders also gives tlrn Irish  excell!1d, according to Davie.  
will be a strength to the Irish  the luxury of a safety with  "This has been a tremen­ 
defense.  cover skills as he recorded  dous opportunity f'or Clifford  
"They're [Sanders and  three interceptions last year,  .Jefferson and Shane Walton."  
Cooper] older than me," head  giving him a total of five for  he said. "They've had a  
coach Bob Davie said. "Those  his career.  chance to come out here and  
guys have been hero longer  The experience of Sand11rs  gtit some rnps. J\ lot of' tlw  
than the coaches. Both Deke  and Cooper has made West's  time you don't get thosB  
and A'Jani are experienced  job easier.  opportunities right away."  
playPrs. There is no substitute  "Thev know a lot of the  Last fall, the corners had  
for this at the saf'ety position."  things we are doing already,"  trouble making plays on th11  
Cooper has been a regular  \Vest said. "When I put them  ball despite getting good posi­ 
in the defensive backfiPld  in, they help me and I h1dp  tion on the receivers. The  
since his freshman year. An  them,"  Irish have addressed this  
injury to Jarvis Edison  The experience continues at  P':'.iblem in spring drills.  
launched him into a starting  corncrback for tlw Irish wherr,  We try to concentrate on  
role against the Washington  Deveron Harper returns for  looking at !the receiver's!  
Huskies.  his senior year and second  hands, reading their eyes and  
Cooper made himself known  season as tho starting corner.  just learning to judge the tim­ 
to Irish fans early when he  Harper has shown he is a  ing of the play its1df," W11st  
picked off a pass on the third  good cover corner with a nose  said.  
play from scrimmage. Ile went  for hitting, tallying 48 tackles  The expected improved pass  
The Observer/Jeff Hsu  on to pick off two more passes  and finishing third on the  rush from the nPw four-man  
Brock Williams (left) and Deveron Harper are looking to keep their  in 1996, finishing second on  team with three sacks.  
starting positions on the Notre Dame secondary unit.  the team with three intercep- The other cornerback situa­ see FOOTBALL/ page 19  



rij... at Big East Championships, Sofcball
at Massachusetts, 

'•:'::;:.,-) Miami, Fla. Saturday, 2 p.m. vs. Defiance College, 
SPORTS 
~ 
Thursday-Sunday ~ Saturday, I p.m.
ATA 
M) 
at Big East Championships, 
Track and Field
at Harvard, 

Miami, Fla. 
at Drake Relays, 

:::::;,' Friday, 3 p.m. 
~ ti>
GLANCE 
Thursday-Sunday 
hiday-Sarurday 













