• • l 
Moe. for the money 
Just don't do it 
Tuesday
Moe. jams righl into Rolling Stone's Top 10 

Former St. John's soccer coach James Keady 
Bands ... and into Chicagu. 

speaks out against Nike's sweatshop violations. 
SEPTEMBER 28, 
Scene . page 12 
News . page 6 
1999 

-==========-===========..::..:=================== 

The l11depe11de11t Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIII NO. 25 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Regina Hall first to undergo Master Plan renovations 
KPith Dmrnis. vicn prnsid1mt for "We're in schematic "It shouldn't be an incunve­also isn't sprinkled. We need to
. Madeleva, Regina 
l'inancc and administration. nienrn." Dnnnis said. 'Thn only mak<)..sure the building is up to
design deoelopment right 

slated for summer "Tlw 1rnxt st1\p is figuring out thing Lhat students will see code. what WP want. out of' lllll µro­now. 11w nexl wl1ill: i.lwy an) lrnrn am materi­Madnlc!va is scheduled to be
construction 
j1~cl." step is .figuring out whal als n~oving in, maybe some com ph\lnd in March 2001. ThP C:olkg:e sclnctod vans. nrnaning construction will take
we want oul of

By NOREEN GILLESPIE Mattht•ws, Pruck1wr, and Hnnovations lo Madelcva plarn during classes. 
S,1int MJry's hlito1 Arwlla lnr.. a local arcl11wctur1• the project ... class1..orn11s will lo b1igin in July ''Wu can be in construction l'irm. l'or th,: Hcgintt proj,:n 2000. while -students am in class. /\ Limcd"inH of Llw Camµus which tcnt.aLivt:ly includl:s Keith Dennis Spccif'ic n:novatioris am still What that will mean is thal we Mastur Plan for rPnovat.ion a.nd irnprov(11111\11Ls to windows, unclt:ar, and tho Colloge is have to take a section out of the
vice president of finance and

tnm1wratuni rbntrol and nlrn'.­waiting f'or rocommenrlations building and block it off,"
t\Xpansion of' Saint Mary's is in 
administration

trical systnms. from Malllrnw, Prucker and Dnnnis said. bugin as soon as May. 
place. and construction is set to 
Hoom layout d11111gns am also A1wlla Inc. and an cmgirwering Tlw construction timeline l'or a possiblily, Donnis said. firm. Madelnva will have to be more
Hngina llall, tlw first of' four opon ft,r resicl(\IIC(] in f'all or ;moo."Wt!'rn looking at Llw room lay­"In Madnleva, WP noed to look lfoxibln than Hegina's, due to
projects on the imnrndiate "Wt: havl: a morn aggrnssive 
sdrndul<1. will undergo rndesign outs in Ht:gina and sneing what schedule for llegina," Dennis specilic:ally al safoty code viola­working around class sched­rooms appnal lo students.~ Im tions in llw building:," Dennis ulos. hownver.
and improvmnents through ren­said. "To be finished by tlrn fall,
said. "Wt~ haw to wail and sen
ovations to student dorm rooms Wt)'II IJavci to bt) in tlrnrc the day said. "WC! have a number of' "That construction phase will 
in Hegina North and South rnsi­what tlw lii-m recommends." al'lnr lstudnnlsl movl' out." dead uncl hallwavs, and if' the must likely be longer," Dennis l{ogina coi1struc1ion will lwgin building is lillml ~ith smoke. we said. "Thn bulk of our work is
dcncn arnas. Co11struclio11 is not 1:xpccted lo 
"Wc'rl' in sclrnmatk d1:sign in May a!'tnr Cumnwncenwnl. don't want IJl'opln turning down
in11:rl'PrP with acmlc1111ir or rnsi­d1weloµment right now,"' said dtinlial lifn. see PLAN/page 4 
Tlw building is cxpecwd to lw thoSl) hallways. Thn building 
------~---------------------------------------~--=-=-=-=-=-=-=--=--==-====-=-=-=-=-=-=-:=================-=== 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
Academic committee adds three members 
By KATE WALTERS 
New, Writer 
Campus Lifo Council voted 15-2 Monday to approvn a resolution asking Father Mark Poorman to add thrne new nll'mbPrs to an /\c'.ademic Council ad-hoc: committee. 
'J'lw ad-hot: commitleP will meet live tinws and discuss issll(:s rnlating to academic and studt:nl lil'ti. It will rnport back to llw i\cadmniC' Council. a board compris1:d of faculty 1rnm1lrnrs who dis­cuss campus-wide acadnmic issues. 
Cl.C nwmbnrs nxpressNI conct!rn tlial cu:. a bci°dy !hat discusses studnnt ac:mi'­t'lllic and rnsidential lifo on campus. was not inc:ludt!d in lhe group. Tlw concern pro­voked tlrn proposal lo include cu: members on tlw council. 
"We nued to look at our­selves bnyond the constricts of a rnpresentative body lhal speaks to Poorman. Why arc wc1 not seen as a University committee''" CLC rrn~mber Brian ()'Donoghue said. 
According to O'Donogluw, the CLC, not the /\.cadmniC' Council, is rnsponsil.ile for student lifo. 
The new 1rnimbcrs of tlrn 
lluas as the rnc:tor nipresen­Thn position of' roctor l'<)p­hol policies bt!twncn dorms
ad-hoc commitlee from CLC 
tative lo the CLC. rnstrnlativ11 will !Jn fillml by and the delinitio11 of a party
am Sister Patricia Thomas, 
"I lrnvn P-njoyud being a Sislnr Adritrnm: l'imurnttn. · am issues tho alcohol c;om­
senior Hoss Kerr and senior µart of thb group and have CLC rnmmiUccs also guvc mitlcc is invcsLigating. The
Michail! Fierro. 
rclishncl the opportunities to annual rnports. committee is also lookingStudlmt body vice presi­
intnract and work with slu­. Tim /\cad(m1ic.: commit­into the role of' alrohol at
d11nt Michael Palumbo 
dnnts, !'acuity and slafT with Lew ruportml lhat il is inVl!S• SYH dances and rnsporisiblealready srwves as a student 
whom I would not ordinarily t.igaling honor emh~ issues drinking in rngard 1.o binge
representative to this com­
have had Lim chanco Lo do and rns,~arc:hing llrn dollars drinking. Tlw Sai11l Mary's
mittee. so," (:omnHinted lluas in a pnr studont that Lim alcohol policins arti also
Another issue discusst!d 
lnttc)r unnourwing her rc~sig­UniV!'rsity sptinds. boing evaluated.
was thu resignation ol' 
mtlion. . Tlw 1:onsist1H1cy or aim­
Mc:Clinn rur.tor Sister Kathy 
see STORY/p:ige 4 

SECURITY 



Man breaks into Walsh 
By CHRISTINE KRALY Associate News Ediror 
Notre Dame Security/Police arrest­
ed a mun suspected of trying lo 
break into rooms on the fourth floor 
or Walsh llall Monday. 
Tim 20-yc ar-o Id male charged 
with criminal trespassing and giving 
polic11 l'alsn information at approxi­
mately I:20 p.m. 
Tim man. who gave police up to six 
names. has not bePn positively iden­
ti f'iod. 
The man is bning held at Saint 
.Joseph County jail until he is identi­
fied, said Chuck llurley. assistant 
dirnctor of' campus Security. 
When lw is idt)ntified, a bond will 
must liknly Im set and he could be 
releasnd sonwtime today. 
Univnrsily Police were called to the 
scenn by rector Sister Patricia 
Johnson, who was notified by 
women on the fourth floor that a 
man was turning random doorknobs 
to find open rooms. 
''[I-Joi S<!enrnd like he was lost," 
.Johnson said. "Ill called security 
immedial1ily." 
Johnson escorted tho man back to 
her room and kept him there until 
police arrived. 
The man told police he was high 
on crack cocaine, Hurley said. When 
they soarchod him, however. police 
found 11trdrugs. 
"To my knowledge, nothing was 
taken," .Johnson said. 
Johnson said she will not do any­thing sµocif'ically to beef up the dorm's s11c:urity. She has sent "lots of reminders ol' locking doors" to Walsh n,sidcnts. something she said should be done campus-wide. .Johnson plans to build awareness within Walsh. 

INSIDE COLUMN 
An ode to 'Save 

by the Bell' 
Bayside was the high scoool that we all wanted to attend. Where Belding was our principal, and Zach Morris was our friend. Jessie dated Slater; they seldom were apart. Screech was in love with 
Lisa. and Kelly stole Zach's heart. Jessie got hooked on those awful caffeine pills. 
"Time, time there's never any time," she cried and she shrilled. 
The toga party gave a lesson; We shouldn't drink and drive. 

And the "Zach Attack" Laura Rompf gave us the privilege to watch their concert live. 
Tori Spelling was a dork, who saved the glee club Copy Editor from shame. 
And even though his dad was against it. Slater won state wrestling fame. 
When Kelly told Zat:h it was over. they wen~ dressed as Romeo and Juliet. How could their rnlationship have ended? thought it was a safe bet. Jessie's New York stepbrother gained info on Slater and Zach. But thanks to Lisa winning his heart, tlrn blackmail materials were given back. The whole gang traveled to Hawaii to watch Jessie's da.d be wed. And the murder-mystery-getaway almost left our beloveds dead. Remember Lisa the candy striper who helped with surgery on Zach's knee? Or when they broke the Elvis statue, that cost a hefty fee? Zach met an older girl when they snuck into the "The Attic" to dance. Kelly's Jeff was at the club, and thus the cheater lost his chance. Lisa had a fashion show, and Zach modeled her clothing line. They started dating and Screech got mad, but of course things turned out fine. There was the summer they worked at the beach for Mr. Kerowsi's club. 
Zach had to judge the Fourth of July pageant. and because of his vote he got snubbed. 
Of course there was The Max where thev got their burgers and fries. · The held a marathon to save the place, and luckily it never died. Zach was quite embarrassed when a female wrestler won his fight. But eventually he came to grips and took her out that night. As Screech tutored Kelly, she fell for his smarts and charm. His robot Kevin helped him out, but the couple still caused alarmed. In the chess tournament against Valley, Screech helped Bayside to win. The Russian was hard to beat, but his lucky beret helped him not be done in. They've tried to make more magic. through the "College Years" and "New Class." But each fails in different ways. and we long for the show of the past. When we wake up in the morning, our alarms give out a warning. 
We don't think we'll ever make it on time. 
Especially not, if it's the reruns we've got, of the greatest television show of its kind. 
The views expressed in the inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those oJThe Obseruer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Noreen Gillespie Emmett Nhlloy Laura Rompf Jenn Zatorski 
Marr Bunda Graphics 
Sports Mandi Powd Kathleen O'Brien 
Production Viewpoint BriJn Kessler Liia Haughc:y Lab Tech Mary Leffers 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-40U0) i, publi,hcd Mond")" rl,ruu&h hiday cxccpr during i:xam a1ld val:.trion period~. The l )bst:1 vi.:r h ,1 nh:mht·r o( rl1c Associ;1red Press. All reproduction righc~ an: r~!>c:rved. 
QUOTES OF THE WEEK 

"We talk about "They should make family values all it a dry campus the time, but whal before they make it do we really mean non-smoking." 
about it?" 
Jennifer Brown Lynn Martin Saint Mary's freshman Former Labor Secretary 
"ff the American public knew the t.ruth about this school, they would be liorr{fied. " 
Brendan Egan Pax Christi member on School of the Americas 
"ft is a great program for all of us to go and put a little bit of America there.,... 
Molly Kahn mission commissioner on Saint Mary's trip to Brazil 
Compiled from U-Wire reports
OUTSIDE THE DOME 

Police identify body found at Michigan State 
EAST LANSING, Mich. 
Neftali Valdez Greene Jr. was id(m­tified Friday as the man found dead in the basement of South Womlers I-lull. 
Two members or a campus Christian organization said Greene was a rnligious ITWn who was always welcome in their grouµ. 
"lle's a person who will b1! dnnply missed," said Brnnt Crain, an assol'i­ate pastor fur Chi Alpha Christian Fellowship at MSU. ··111, was the ki.nd of person which just brushing shoul­ders with him jusl changed you." 
Greene was enrollnd at MSU from January 1997 to May 1998 but did nol graduate. police said. Ile lived in either Snyder Hall or Phillips Ila!! while a student but had never lived in Wonders Hall. 
According to MSU's Pilot e-mail sys­tem, Greene, of 'Vladison Heights, studied computer science whiln at 

"He's a person who will be deeply missed." 
Brent Crain associate pastor for MSU Chi Alpha Christian Fellowship 
!\1SU. Police said his last known address was-Hn West Saginaw Highway in Lansing. 
The Wonders assistant manager found Greene's badly d1icomposed body at about 2 p.m. Wednesday in an unused cooler. The coohir was in a room once used as a kitchnn but now used for storage. The kitchen is locat­Ed adjacent to a 24-hour study lounge and is normally kept lock,1d. 
Crain said Greene oll1m participatPd in the Chi Alpha meetings and a Bible studies group he led. Crain said he last talkiid to Greene about a year 
ago. 
"Neftali was an interesting. interest­ing man," Crain said. "I-le was liked, friendly. outgoing and very spirited." 
"He'd come to lhe meetings and Lalk to everybody," he added. 
Chemical Pngineering senior Ben Johnson said he met Greene during a Bible study session. 
''It struck llw how well he knew the Bible," .Johnson said. "He really seemed like a level-headed person. 
"He was always real excited about life and what God was doing." 
Police said the last known sighting of Greene was Sept. 13 on campus by someone who round his identification and returned it to him. Greene was never reportnd missing to police. 
Internet papers under fire at Arizona 

TUCSON. Ariz. 
University o[' Arizona students who purchase term papers on the lnternnt and turn them in -f"or credit could be expelled from the university, an associate dean of students warned. Aloxis Hernandez. the University of Arizona's associate dean of students, said he "supposes" UA students havP bought Lerm papers off Web sites, but didn't have any statistics about how many students have turned them in as their own origi­nal work. But Hernandez said 1B academic integrity cases were filed in the 1998 fiscal :mar. "The profes­sor sets rules and decides if it is a violation and beyond that what are the appropriate sanctions," Hernandez said. 1-lernandciz said a possible result of such a violation could be expulsion -a cornrnquencn determined by a spncial hearing board. Despite the possible repercussions !'or studl'nts, Web sites that sell p,tpers a.re still popping up. St1mt\ companies advertise that they will get term papers lo students within 24 hours. Others charge $20 per page. Cheathouse.com advertises that they have 9,500 essays in their data­base from 44 categories. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
Accu\\'eathcr00 foreG1st for Uay1imc L'on<lition:-. mu.I high h:mpcnllLlfc~ 
,,......,,,..." .............. 
H  L  
Tuesday  r) ~­ 62  59  
Wednesday Q  60  56  
Thursday  d  58  44  
Friday  ~  66  42  
Saturday  ~'  65  47  


qqQqqQ¢~u 
Showers T·storm:i Ram Flumes Si1cW Ice Sunni Pl C!oody Cfaua·y ViaAssociarad Press GreµhicsNe1 
Former professor sues Oklahoma State 
STILLWATER, Okla. 
A former Oklahoma State-University psychology pro­fessor is suing Urn university for sexual harassment by his l"cmale co-worker. Marc Pratarelli filed the lawsuit in Oklahoma City federal court in June, alleging that Mary Devitt, another assistant professor, sexually harassed him beginning in March 1996. In the lawsuit, Pratarnlli claims the university denied reappointment to his position bHcause Devitt conspired against him. l'ratareIii corn pleted a four-year appointment to a tenure-track position in May. Because he was not 
· reappointed in June, Im cannot be considered for tenure. according to the amended complaint. Pratarelli is suing for compensatory and punitive dam­ages and rninslatcment to his teaching position under tlw Civil High ts Act of 1964 and the civil rights statute, Section 198:1. 1111 is suing under the gender discrimi­nation portion because sexual harassment is a subset of gender discrimination, according to the complaint. The lawsuit is only the second sexual harassment case l'ilcd against OSU in nine years, said Scott Fern, an OSU Board of Hegents attorney on the case. 

NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeathel"' forecast for noon.Tuesday, Sept. 28. 70s Lmes separate high temperature z.ones tor the day. 
STATIONARY 

Pr•uu,•; @ cg  DDCIJD  ..  .r_t).,_,iti!i!i  
High  Low  Showers  Rain  T-slorm!I  Flurries  Snow  Ice  Sunny  Pt. Cloudy  Cloudy  
V/8 Assacm!lJCJ PrtJSli  
Atlanta  80  68  Houston  88  68  Portland  74  5B  
Ballimorn  74  63  Louisville  84  64  Sacramento  98  50  
Bloomington  83  63  Memphis  86  67  St. Louis  71  58  
Boston  72  57  New York  74  64  Tampa  91  72  
Chicago  64  52  Philadelphia  74  62  wash DC  76  64  


Tuesday, September 28, 1999 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 





Ireland identifies with America 
By·BRAD RAGER News Writer 
There is an identification in 
Northern lrnland with tho 
i\mcrican civil rights movo­
ment, according to 13rian 
Dooley, former head of press at 
Amnesty International. 
From Frederick Douglas to 
Ted Kennedy, there have been 
important characters in the 
American civil rights move­
nrnnt that have iuentifiecl a 
unique connection between tlw 
light for basic human rights in 
tlm two nations, Dooley said. 
While black Americans wPre held in the bonds ol' slavery. Catholics in lmland were bning rnprnssed by the British gov­ernment and persecuted because of their religion, Dooley said. 
Advocates for an end to slav­ery, such as thn influential abo­litionist Frederick Douglas, traveled to Ireland to speak about the struggle l'or justice in /\mC1rica and to see firsthand the trials ot' Irish peasanL..;. 
Douglas met with Irish nationalist h:mdcrs like Daniel O'Connell and spoke at a rally in Cork that drew a crowd of 5,000, Dooley explained. 
The l 960s were turbulent times for both nations as well. 
A movement for fair housing opportunities for women began in Northern Ireland in 1963. The movement which grew out of "a small protest by nitrn women angry at the govern­ment for the suicicfo of a friend who could get no housing," Dooley said. 
"These type or people. who were sometimes called Ulstnr's whilli Negroes would ortcn pat­tern their resistance after black movem11nts in the United States," Dooloy said. 
Similar to slaves, Irish people would protest, singing "We will overcome." 
Dooley noted that boycott, a tactic usnd in tlw American civil righL-; rnovrnrnmt. actually came f'rom lrnland. 
And after tlrn notorious 


"Bloody Sunday" massacrn in Nortlrnrn Ireland in 1972, rep­resentatives lhim Marlin Luther King's group came to protest and voice their concerns. 
Although their struggles wern­si mil a r, the rnlationship between tlrn Irish and Africaii Anrnricans in Um United States was not always good. Dooley explained that many landown­l)rs in tlw 11..Jth cenlury were forced to choos1) between cheap Irish labor and slave owning. 

Misiewicz takes on 

ombudsman role 
By COLLEEN GAUGHEN Vit'wpoint Editor 
Complaints of discriminatory harassment at Notre Dame now can be directed through Kevin Misiewicz, tho University's nnw ombudsporson. 
Appointnd in July by University pr(~sident Fat.hnr Edward Malloy, Misiewicz, also an associate accounting profossor, will 

provid1: an "The idea is to come up are rather avenuP with a sort ofsoft person than telling 
through which them what
outside the process to
students, staff to do." and faculty can facilitate things ... Misiewicz report allega­is the tions of' dis­University's
Kevin Misiewicz 
c rim in a to ry third official
University ombudsman
harassment. ombudsper­or dorm rectors. . 
Now the ombudsperson posi­tion provides an objective alter­native to direct allegation. 
"The idea is to come up with a sorl of soft person outside the process to facilitate things," said Misiewicz. '' We don't have any investigating powers; we want to help people be aware of what the process is to the extent they aren't, and help them further define what their options 
Lik11 most organizations and institutions, Notre Dame has a lhrmal structure of liling com­plaints l'or pl~ople who believe they am boing treated inappro­priately. Notre Dame defines harassment as "any physical conduct inlenlionally inflicting injury on the person or property of another, or any intentional threat of' directly another, or small group of' others, that is intended to intimidate its victims from any University activity, or an verbal attack, intended to provok11 the victims to immediate physical retaliation." 

Complaints can be tiled with both the Ollice of 1-lesidence Life and Human Resources, as well as with appropriatn supervisors 
son, a pos'i­tion created about live and a half years ago. 
Psychology professor John Borkowski and civil engineering professor Lloyd Ketchum were tho ombudspersons before Misiewicz. 

All have had large families, including multiracial adopted children. Misiewicz has eight adopted children. 
A member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1978, Misiewicz's accounting specialty is the uses of computers in tax practice and education; tax research tools, processes and communications; various aspects of the taxation of individuals, including estate pan­ning; and the tax treatment of exempt organizations. 


Mass, Munchies with Monk (and a few more) 
Interested? Find out more. Everyone invited ... 
When: Tuesday, September 28 9:00-10: 15 p.m. 
Where: Corby Hall (next to Basilica)
For More Info: Fr. Bill Wack, C.S.C. ANSWER ~ 

1·3087 www.nd.edu/-vocation THECALL \(!)I 
vocation.1@nd.edu 
~-'=---------------------------­
CONSTRUCTION 


Philosophy, theology building planned 
By MATTHEW SMITH News Writer 
Construction on a new build­ing to house the philosophy and theology departments will begin after the Nov. 19 home football game. 
The building will be located behind O'Shaughnessy Hall and will connect to Decio IIall on the first two floors, according to Jim Lyphout, vice pnJsident of business operations.. 
"The building should resem­ble Decio llall. and we are excited about its opening," Lyphout said. 
The 56.000 square-foot, L­shaped building will be f'our stories tall and contain ofliccs for professors, along with some seminar rooms and a chapel. 
"This is a very good thing for the philosophy department," said Paul Weithman, director of' graduate sLudies in the philoso­phy deµartmenL. "We am 110\'\ all together, in a community of common interests. We nnally will have a place to call our 0\'\'11." 
Weitlunan also cited the cdu­cati on al advantages of the building, including inereasnd workspace for gradual(·) stu­dents and more seminar spacP for discussion. 
"Interaction and sharin!{ of ideas am essf~ntial to µhiloso­pby and theology." he said. "Also. the link between tlrn the­ology and philosophy depart­ments is important in a CaLholic un1versitv." 
Both departments are cur­rently loc.:ated in O'Shaughnossy Hall. which houses many Arts and Letters departments. 
The new building's donur has asked to remain anonymous, but a name may appear on the building. The $13 million pro­ject should be completed by .June 2001. 
The 



Observer. 
It's where you get your news ... online. 
http:/ /observer.nd.edu 

TOLEDO, SPAIN 
Informational Mectino 
b 
With Carmen Nanni 
Wednesday September 29, )999 SDH Hospitality Room 4:45 



Plan 
continued from page 1 
scheduled to occur in 180 days. We can"[ possibly get that amount of work done in that time period." 
rhe renovation will displace classns, Dennis said. 
"The faculty are investigat­ing other tf~ach.ing space on campus," he said. "But right now. llie. most irnµortant thing we can do is identify what nctid:; Lo bn done. We 
I CLC 
continued from page 1 
. Cor'nmunity Lifo is exarnin­ing the rolP of' rectors and media at Notn• DamP., along with tlw addition of 24-hour spaces at Notrn Dame. The commitlc(! is considering proposing the opnning of the first llom· or I.a Fortunn 24 hours. 
have to remember that this is a renovation, not a tear­down." 
A welcome center. slated for location at the corner of Madeleva and Main Street, will begin construction in !'all of 2000. 
The center, designed to wel­come visitors Lo c.:ampus, will also house S('CUrity but, "without a security apµear­ance," Dennis said. 
James E. Childs and Associates was selected as the architects for the projer.t. 
Official construction dates and arc;hitec.:ts arc yet LO be nanrnd f'or the fourth pro,iect, 
Questioning the role or Notrn Damp and Cincinati Boll Long DistancP was anotlwr topic as CBLD's contract comes to a close, as well as discussing what Notre Dame will be doing for the millennium celebration. 
. The Diversity cornmitten reported that Zahm resi­dents who worn Indian cos­tumes lo the Kansas-Notre Dame pep rally were disci­plined l'or ofl'rrnding stu­
a renovation and redesign of Noble Family Dining Hall which will include a student center. 
Tim new dining hall/student center will house the book­store, post office, bank, stu­d(mt ttctivitifls, student gov­ernment ol'ficcs, a cafe and is expec;tcd to double in size compared to the current fadl­ity. 
Architflctural Design Group and Ellerbe Becket are the two remaining architectural firms in the running for the dining hall project. A phone conf'oronce to select the archi­tect is sclwduled for Oct. 1. 
d(\nts. The issue has been rosolved. members reported, and it was expressed that rectors and RAs should take a morn active role in pre­venting this in the future. 
. Gender Issues exprossed the desire to send a pam­phlet to incoming freshmen nxplai11ing eating disorders on cam pus. In addition, they wishPd tu propose the implnmentation of a well­ness course. 

Guiliani, Clinton face off in NY 
Associated P rcss 
NEW YOHK 
ArL l'usc)cl with politics l\1ondav as an exhibit includirig cl<)phant dung on a painting of' the Virgin Mary bBcame the latrist issue in tlw duel between Mayor Hudolph Giuliani and Hillary Hodham Clinton. 
Giuliani -who like the firs! lady is an all-but­d()ciarc)d candidalP t'or the Senate from New York ­has threatened to cut $7 million in f'unding to tlrn Brooklyn Museum or Art ii' it goes ahead with tlrn show on Saturday. lie has calltid the exhibit, which also f'ea­tures bisected animals and a topless woman in the plac(! of' Jesus at the Last Supper, "sick" a 11 cl offc 11 ­sive. 
Late Monday, a City Hall source speaking on condi­
lion ol' anonymity said the rnusnum agreed to pull the clung-decorated painting as part of a tentative deal with Ll1<' mayor. But the museum issued a statement saying no dc)al had been reached and that the exhibit was going to open as planned. 
Earlier Monday, Clinton dticlan·d that the museum shouldn't lose its funding ­money that makes up a full third ol' its budget. 


For information, call: 1-8041 
NDLGS Group Advisors; Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C Sr.Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C. 
All converations are private and confidential. 
J' 





orld 


Tuesday, September 28, 1999 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Vatican reiterates position on 'morning-after' pilJ 
VATICAN CITY 
Ill,sponding to a lJ.N. ol'fkial's slatonwnt that !Im Vatican had conc~dtH.l defeat on rnproductive issues. a spoknsman reitcratod Mo11day Llw Church's oµposilion to abortion and Urn "morning-al'ter" pill. The U.N. Population Fund's director, Nafis Sadik, sai<l Wednesday that thP Vatican has "accepted that the int,irnational community has accopt­ud that. family planning is one of the human rights of wonrnn." Sadik and Vafican oflidals have dashed in tlrn past over family planning methods. Vatican spokesman Joaquin Navarro-Valls issued a two-page statenwnl Monday insisting thut "llw Iloly Seo !ms not changed at all its well-noted position," roiter­aling its opposilion to abortion and uso of' Urn "nwrning-af'ter" pill. which it considers to Im 11 bortive. 
'Memory Stick Walkman' to download MP3s 
TOKYO 
Sony Corp. said ~onday it will start S(\lling a Walkman that lits into the palm of a hand and downloads music from the lntnrnet whiln pro­tecting copyrights. Thfl "Memory Stick Walkman" is dnsigned to fight the prolifera­tion or illPgal music exchanges on the Internet and to crnat(l a new standard for portable audio players, a Sony spokesm·an said. speak­ing: on condition of anonymity. The Walkman will cost $430 and requires a computer with Microsoft Windows 98 to transfer music.The Walkman uses technology to protect the record industry from the illegal copying and­distribution of music over the Internet. Currently, music can be downloaded from the Internet for free. Memory Stick users would pay for Internet music made compatible with Sony's encryplion system. but would not be able to download songs from free Web sites. the spokesman said. 
New AIDS drug looks promising to researchers 
SAN FHANCISCO 
/\ medicine that blocks the AIDS virus from gelling inside cells has shown promise as a last-ditch trnatmcnt for patients who l'ail to respond lo standard AIDS drugs. The medi­cine, code-named T-20. is still in early-stagQ testing, but researchers said Monday that it could offer a reprieve for those who have run out of options. T-20 was discovered at Duke University. It is being developed by Hoffmann­La Hoche Inc. and Trimeris Inc., a sma·ll biotech company in Durham. N.C. The drug is the furthest along of a new class or AIDS med­icines callnd fusion inhibitors. They work by thwarting the virus's ability to fuse with blood cells and insert their geirntic material into them. 
••iitiiUitid1Wifl4
Dow AMEx; 
779.23 ]ONES ~7.44 
Nasdaq:
+24.00 

2761. 75 
+21.34 
NYSE 
591.62 '2.08 

S&P SOO: Composite 1283.31 
Volume:
10,303.30 +5.95 782,400,000 
VOLUME LEADERS 
tl2Hll:il :c,s;;u,13 !t. ~IIAil:iHII. I s;J;l,M~I i:l;i;s;;li 
UrfEt COR.P  INTC  +J. )J  .~, 5181  78.19  
AMlU~lC'-. OWLJ:NE Pal..L C'OMM.1ffR  AOL DJtLL  +3. 71 -.0.915  +1,6~00.o. 3'7l5  101_12 U,OC'i  
ClCO 9:1:S'l'&MS  csco  -l.li  -o. 8800  68.ll  
NCI WOJI.LDCOM I'll  w<:OM  -~ .9'5  -2.24.!50  73.88  
HtCROSOF'J' CORP  MSP'T  -t0.55  ..o.5o.l5  n.u  
A.N,U,0)1,CQl,I  AMIN  -l.75  -:. .uoo  6.2.56  
CHOl me But. MICII.O!ll!:TQI  CMOI SUNN  -t9 .,o.,.u  +8 ,3075 ... , . 7525  93. 1l 93.~U  
t111IU Il<C  UBJ:D  +:a,e,5  +-1.UOO  ]1).1§1  

YUGOSLAVIA 


Associated Press  "The Kosovo Albanian  scheduled meeting, NATO  NATO bombing campaign  
PHISTlNA  political leaders should  spokesman Lt. Col. Robin  that ended  an  18-month  
NATO's outgoing socrn­tary-general called on K<isovo's ethnic Albanian  publicly reaffirm their commitment to build a multicultural. multiethnic  Clifford said. Clifford offered no explanation and no one in  crackdown in Kosovo by Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic - 
leadership to stop "vio­lence and hatred," warn­ing Monday that Kosovo will never achieve peace without ethnic reconcilia­ society and we expect' from them to turn actions in this direction," Javier Solar1a told reporters. Solana arrived in  Thaci's office answered the telephone. Thaci has complained that NATO and the United Nations have not been dealing  endorsed the newly approved Kosovo Protection Corps. The corps is a civilian organi­zation to be formed pri­ 
tion.  Kosovo's provincial capi­ with him  as  the leader of  marily from the ranks of  
In a sign of Kosovo's deep-rooted ethnic trou­bles, the provincn's main ethnic Albanian leader  tal Sunday night and met with Serbian representa­tives. But the leader of the former Albanian  a transitional government backed by his former rebel force, the Kosovo Liberation Army.  the Kosovo Liberation Army. "Remember, it will not be a political force and it  
did not show up for meeting with Solana.  a  rebels. Hashim Thaci, failed to appear for a.  Solana -NATO's top civilian official during the  certainly will not be an army," Solana said.  

Executioners keeping busy in 1999 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
With throe months remaining, 1999 already is tho dnadlies1 year on America's death row in almost half a century. Eigliteun states have execut­ed 76 killMs, and tho total could reach 100 by year's (~nd. 
"There has been lhis stairway upward since the death penalty was reinstituted" in 1976, said Richard Dieter of the Death Penalty Information Center, a group critir:al of how capital punishment is admin­istered. "It hasn't peaked yet: ... 150 is probably where things may max out over the next three to four yf'ars." 
Executions last Friday in Llelawarc and North Carolina raised the year's total to 76, the most since 1954, when 81 people were put to death in 

U.S. prisons. If the year-end toll reaches 100, as Dieter said could happen, it would be the l'irst time since 105 people were executed in 1951. There were 68 executions last year, 74 in 1997. 
States have executed 576 convicted killers since the Supreme Court ended in 1976 a four-year nation­wide ban on capital punishment. Currently, about 3,565 people are on death rows across the nation. 
Many countries have abolished the death penalty, including Canada, Australia, France and Germany. Amnesty International said it received reports of 1,067 executions in China in 1998, more than 100 in the Democratic Republic of Congo 
and 66 in Iran. The organization said it also has unconfirmed reports of hundreds of executions in Iraq. 
Eighteen of the 38 American states with death penalty laws have imposed capital punishment this year, and once again Texas is first with 25 executions. 
"What sometimes people lose sight of is that prosecutors don't give the death penalty -it takes a unani­mous 12 folks [on a jury] to do it," said .John Holmes, district attorney in Harris County, Texas, which includes Houston. 
Holmes' office seeks a death sen­tence in 12 to 20 cases a year and almost always succeeds. 
"We have a good sense for know­ing whether it's a death-worthy pros­ecution," he said. 
•I, 
page 6 711e Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, September 28, 1999 
Keady: Nike 'just doesn't do it' in sweatshop debate 
. Coach stands up to manufacturer, employer 
By SAM DERHEIMER 
NewsWrirer 
As assistant soccer coach at St. John's University, James Keady faced a tough decision. His team wore Nike uniforms. but Keady discovered severe human rights violations in Nike sweatshops through his masters research paper. 
.., was told to wear Nike and drop tho issue p.ublicly or resign," Keady said: 
He lost the coaching job or his dreams. 
Keady. speaking Monday during the second session of the University's sweatshop 
symposium, called Nike "orw of the grossest violators of human rights in the world. 
"Nike has consistently shown that they will not uper­nte in good folth toward their workers," said Keady. "SL John's and Notre Dame, by associating with such corpo­ralions, are giving a stamp of approval to this type of behavior." 
Keady challenged the Notre Daum communitv not to com­promise its CaUiolic mission. He urged the audience to let the administration know that associations with corpora­tions repeatedly ignoring social justice will not be toler­ated. 
K1~ady cited three main problems inherently wroug with sweatshops: corpora­tions' failure to pay workers 
suffiritint ""living" wagns, tlrn roaches 1,vor11 turned into nil'usal Lo publicly disclose walking billboards, I was work cite lonttions, and tlrn silenced," K(•ad,v said. ··it is refusal to allow workers in an abomination the way ath­tlrns1i ~bops the right to orga-letes get prostituted by uni­nizl'. versitios and corporatious." 
" 0 11 I ) Paige Doub, 
through l'ull a member or 
"J was told to wear Nike
d is c I u s u rt' the Mastl'r's and educa­and drop the issue Peace Study tion can Program,
publicly or resign."
such prob­praised the lems llopt' to message or lw allt•viat­James Keady action cal l<!cl cd." KBad) for in the
former St. John's soccer coach 
said. "The symposium. Univursity "I think this must bo is an ess11n­prnssnd. tial part or llow can we dnal with Nike, our 1!xistonct' on campus," and still l'olluw our Catl10lic said Doub. "Things happen mission and Urn tl'.achings of wlwn indivi<lual people star! tlw gospt,ls" calling f'or changcis. Students 
., Btic aus e I r> rotll s l n d the who pay tuition at this way st.udnn1 athlntPs and Univt)rsi!y dnsPrve a voicn." 
"I could not allow myself to sit back· while my university was making profit off the backs of the poor," said Koady, "Now I challenge the community of Notre Dame also to take action, in accor­ctan ce with Catholic social !teaching, on this issue." 
The symposium, which can bn tak!\n for class credit, marks the continuing effort of the University to eliminate the use or sweatshop labor in the manul'acturing of Notre Dame produl'.ts, and is primarily organized to showcase the complt1x issues the University's Task Force on Anti-Sweatshop Initiatives must dtial with. Four lectures still remain in the series. 
Todd David Whitmore, diroctor of the task force, also spoke• Monday night. 

Endowment helps build campuses 
leges serving 26,000 students Whilt' a fow or tile collngps 
Associated Press in 12 states. The drive thus !'ar havP newer campuses, most has taken in $43 million, hold classes in aging govPrn­
WASHINGTON 
including tlrn Lilly gift, said nwnt-issu11 buildings or prdab The Lilly Endowment Im:. is 
Suzette Brcw<fr, spokeswoman .. portabll'" classnrnms. 
Lessons That Will Last A Lifetime. 
OFFICER TRAINING SCHOOL 
donating $30 million to for the American Indian ThP gift from the American Indian tribal col­College Fund. lndianapolis-bast~d Lilly Put that college degree to use by enrolling into the Air Force Officer leges to help with construction Training School. Upon successful completion of the Officer Training Most of the 30 schools are Endownrnnt and monuy raised and renovation of often shab­School, you will become a commiss,oned Air Force officer withcommunity colleges run by by the fund driH will help by campuses, earned respect and benef:ts like ­great starting pay, medical andone or more tribes and located ensun1 "Indian studl-Jnts can The fund planned to dental care, management and travel· on reservations. Non-Indians go to schDols in facilities that announce the gift Tuesday as AIM HIGH opportun:<,es For more on how to qualifyalso can take classes at the arP as good as th11ir white the kickoff to a $120 million and get ·,oui career soaring with theschools. but the colleges get counterparts, wheni limy campaign to raise money for Air Force Officer Tra,n1ng School, callfederal p{~r-studPnt funding don't havli Lo worrv about lilns 1-800-423· USA~ or visit our website atimp'rovements at 30 tribal col-only for their Indian students. l'alling on the(r lrnads," www.airforce.com www.airforce.com  
csc C E N T E R F O R SOCIAL CONCERNS Urban Plunge is a 48-hour experiential learning course set in urban communities, where students visit with individuals, agencies and parishes that are striving to meet the many needs of the socially and economically disenfranchised. Information Session TONIGHT!! ;> at St. Mary's College• LeMans Hall Tuesday, September 28 7:30 P.M. Next Notre Dame Info Session: at the Center for Social Concerns Tuesday, October 5, 7:00 P.M.  


I' 
Tuesday, September 28, 1999 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 

TURKEY 
lninates hold 71 guards hostage 
Associated Press 
TANKAHA 
Protesting the deaths or 10 inmalflS in a riot. left-wing prismrnrs held more than 70 prison guards hostage Monday in sr.ven prisons across tlrn country. 
At one or the prisons, the hostage-takers hurled stones at soldiers and unfurled a taunting banner that read, "Come over if you have tlw courage." 
Dozens of soldiers movnd into Istanbul's Umraniyc prison and fired toar gas through the windows. but llw government insisted that Lhny wnrn nol planning to storrn th(• prison and rescun tlrn hostages. 
"\V<! am trying to end the hostage taking pcacel'ully," said tho head ol' Turkey's prisons. /\Ii Sual Ertosun. 
Fourteun ol' the guards wern boing held in Umraniye. 
Tlw fighting began Sunday in Ankara's Ulucanlar prison after inmatns clashod with soldiers who raided the prison to search for an escape tunnd that the inmates reportedly w,)re digging. 
C:laslrns quickly sprnad to otlwr prisons aftt)r ·10 inmates wen' killed and 28 guards and inmates w,we injurnd in Ankara. thn Justice Ministry rnportml. 
For Information leading to the arrest of Hit & Run driver of 3 Notre Dame individuals on Fridav, Sept. 17 
Contact Sgts. Kraus or Stoynoff@ 23S-7S1S 
PUERTO Rico 

Diseases reemerge in AIIlericas 
Associated Press 
SAN .JUAN 
Tubnrculosis. chol1n-a, dm1guo -tlrny're back, throatcning millions of' ptioplB in tho J\nrnricas. 
0 11 ('. (j 
thought vir­
Diseases
tually 11radi­catnd, tlw reemerging disoases 
in the past
havf' rn­emerg1id l'or 10 years rr)asons 
. Cholera ranging from 
. Bubonic
the devnlup­m () n t () r Plague drug-r1isis­
. Hantavirus 
tant strains Lo tho mush­
. Drug-resistant rooming o!' malaria vast urban arnas with poor sa11italio11, say tho lwmi­splH)rP's top health ollicials. "Drug-rnsistant strains or microbes am having a deadly impact on lho fight against tubnrculosis, malaria, cholera, diarrlrna and µneumonia (which) Logc)tlwr kill nrnrP Lhan 10 million p(wpln worldwidP each yoar." ~aid Dr. Goorgn J\11,iynn. dirnclor-goneral or tho Pan Amt,rican Ilnalth 
Organization, ''This is happening at a time when too fnw 1ww drugs are bning dnv(dop()d to replace those that havn lost their nffec­tiveness," ho said, 

Alleyne spoku Monday at the start ol' a livn-day conforencP in San .Juan. Puorto Hico. where some! 30 hPalth ministl'rs from 35 member states am expPcted today to consider proposals on combating tobacco consump­tion in the Amnricas. 
Alleyn(\ said smoking is now the No. 1 killur in the region. its related diseasos claiming more than 600,000 lives a year. 
A draft of a report to be pre­sented today reveals that some mPmlJer countries with "eco­nomic interests" blocked l'AIIO -a Washington D.C.-based agency of tlw World llealth Organization -from pursuing an ambitious plan for a region­al convo11tion agairn;t tobacco. A scaled-down plan tries tu Pducaie people and promote action through workshops, con­fernnces, and the Internet. 
In a 120-page report Monday. Alluyne described the surpris­ing rnenwrg1rnce or diseases like dengirn -Urn highly debili­tating and unlrnatablo diseast. some call "brnakbone fever" ­that infect<id 770,000 people in tho Americas last year and killt1d about 100. 
"There was a time when a lot of this region was free of (the dongue-carrying) mosquito, but now we find virtually the whole region reinfected," Alleyne said. 
lie blamed excessive reliance on chemical insecticides, to which the mosquitoes have become resistant. and inade­quate sanitation that provides an environment for mosquitos to breed. 
Tuberculosis, affecting 400,000 a year in the region, was another concern, "killing 137 people every day," 
!'AHO spokesman Daniel Epstein said increased urban­ization was a factor, since peo­ple living in close quarters are more likely to infect one anoth­er. 
Other diseases identified as reemerging in the last decade: 
. Cholera. reintroduced tu Central and South America fol­lowing an absence of almost a contury. 
. Bubonic plague, which has returned to Peru since 1992. 
. Ilantavirus, a rat-borne dis­ease that was discoverEld again in the U.S. state or New Mexico. 
. Drug-resistant malaria has infected a great swath of the Amazon region, attacking entire villages in Guyana. 
Please recycle The Observer. 
If so, come join the Bank One team of 2000. 
The Bank One Scholar Program Is designed for exceptional liberal arts and other outstanding undergraduates who wish to pursue careers In financial services with BANK ONE CORPORATION whlle earning a graduate business degree. 
Through a rotational program, scholars obtain -ln an accelerated manner -a foundation of experiences In different areas ofthe bank. Bank One Scholar training and development combines on-the-job experience at Bank one Corporation with a graduate business education earned at either the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business or the J.L Kellogg Graduate School of Management at Northwestern University, 
Visit with us when we are on your campus, 
BANK ONE SCHOLAR PROGRAM INFORMATION SESSION 
Wednesday, September 29, 1999 6:30-8:30 p.m. Foster Room Lafortune Student Center 
VISIT US ON THE WEB AT; 
www.bankone.com/careernav 
The Power ofONE... 
ExceptionalResults through exceptionalpeople 
--·--··-~~--~-. 
' I 

Sponsored by: 
Jus Vitae 
Feminists for Life 
Notre Dame Right to Life 

Tuesday, September 28, 1999 
The Observer . CAMPAIGN NEWS page 9 
Quayle quits presidential race 
Bush: Father did not 
. Empty-pocketed Quayle leaves eight GOP candidates 
Associall'tl Press 
PIIOENIX 
Dan Quayle said Monday 
that ho never ,mvisionnd his 
Hcpublican presidnntial cam­
paign ending this way, short 
on cash 
and btif'orn 
tlw firs L 
v o Le was 
rasl. 
But thon, 
hn said, 
this has 
boen an 
"unprece­
d c n l u d" 
campaign. 
"There ·s a timo to stay and tlrnn•'s a limn to fold. Tlicrn's a timn to know when to lnavn tho stage. Thus today I am announcing that I will 110 long,~r b11 a candidatt' f'or prnsidt>nt ol' thn Lnitnd Slates," Quayle said, ending a campaign that has bnen doggnd by poor fund-raising and low poll nurnbnrs. 
l)uayle's departure l!~avos eight major Hnpublican ca11­didates, and is bound to increase speculation about tlrn financial and political heallh of the rnmaining con­lnnders. 
Appearing at thn Arizona llillmorn, nnar his l'aradisti Valley honw. Quuyle citNl Llw juggnnaut or c;op front-run­ner (;norge W. Bush, who has 

rais!'d more than $50 million 
tlius f'ar in tho campaign and 
In ads in Lim polls. 
"I was racing a campaign wlwrn t!w l'ront-ru111rnr would Im vP up lo $ 1 0 0 m i11 ion to spend. and an unprcccdcnled l'rontloading of' the primary systrm madr the task for nw ol' winning the nomination of my party virtually impossi­b!P," Im said. 
Tim fornwr vico µrosidPnt has raisud only about $4 mil­lion, und lws been unabl1• l.o brnak out of' the snconrl tinr or candidatPs in any of tho koy Parly statos. l'inislling nnar tlw botlom in Iowa's nonbind­ing straw poll last month. 
Still, Quaylo remuincd con­vi ncPd hP could f'arn woll in llrn New Ilampshire primary. riling a rncent poll that ranknd him second nationally lwhind Bush. Ile told niporlcrs in Iowa last W(~Pk that his consorvativc nwssag(: nol campaign millions would lrnlp him win. 
BuL a crn1cc11tralod primary caln11dar with 18 states voting within 30 days or New llamµshirn would have given him lillll' time lo raise !lllough money and capitulizc on a sun:css. 
"It was a ducision that had to bn made. but my heart hurl," Quayln said in an intcr­vitiw. "I l adws because th is is not something I thought I would havn Lo do. I could s1\t1 SO wavs that this would Pnd. but this vvas llot 01w of thPm." 
Quay)(' and his wifo. Marilyn, said they plan to 
tako a fow days oIT and rnor­
gcl 11 iZ (' tIm iI' Ii V (\ s be l'o l'n 
deciding what they might do 
nnxt. 
QuaylP is I.Ile l'ourill candi­
d a LP to abandon tho 
Heµublican prnsiclcntial rac11. 
lfop. John Kasi('.h or Ohio 
and l'ormor T1inncsse11 Gov. 
Lamar Aloxanuur foluod tlrnir 
campaigns during the sum­
mer. Sen. Bob Smith or ;\)(\W 
llumpshirn optnd lo pursuP 
an indnpnndnnt prnsidnntial 
hid. 
!\nwng Lim rPmaining can­didut<\S, Arizona Sen . .John Md:a in . w ho has nmd " inroads against !lush in Nnw llampsbirn, l'ormally kickct.l off his campaign Monday with a s p<w ch a t th t' N av a I Academy in Annapolis, Md. 
ConsPrvatiV!! conimcntator Pat Buchanan is on tho brink ol' bolling tlrn GOP to snnk tlrn HP form I> a rty nomination l!lizabeth llo!() is aggressively trying to rais<i monny to eom­1rntn against Bush. llor situa­liou may be nven 11101'0 µrn­n1rious brH'.ausc slll' is court­ing tho samo modl!l'Ulc and t!SlablislrnrnnL Hepublicans as 
Bush. 
Millionairn SttWB Forhos and activist Gary Bauor, nwa11whil1•, havi; bncn posi­tioning lh<\lllS!dvos as tlw only L!'U(' t'.OllSPl'VaLiV()S in the ra('.<'. lfolh mov!id to r1)cruit (juaylp's supporL01·s Monday. 
(JuaylP promist•d lo suµporL his party's nomin<~I' and said lw nxµcrls it will bo Bush. 'Tm not making an ondorsn­nrnnL." h<\ said. 


r.===============================· 
Are you looking for something that ... 
• 
Looks great on a resume 

• 
Has a minimal time commitment 

• 
Helps you to learn about stocks, bonds, futures, options, and other investments 


PORTFOLIO 
MANAGEMENT 
CHALLENGE!!!!!! 
For $20, you have the chance to win: $1000 first prize, $500 second prize, $300 third prize Starts Oct. 4th and runs for six months 
Sept. 28th Signup Tables 5-7pm NDH/SDH 
ask for military favor 
Associarcc! Pres, 
AUSTIN, Texas 

Tlw formor speaker of' the Texas Housn of' ltepros<mtatives acknowledged 1\-londav that lw called the lw1ul o(tlw Toxas Air National Cuard in IW18 to rocom1rwnd c;oorgn \/'f Hush for a pilot slot during llw Vi<'tnam War. 
But Bon Barnes, who lalor was li<~ulnnanl governor, said tlw rnqu!ist J'or his help mme l'rom a Bush family l'riend ­not Bush or his father, who 1.hcn was a congrnssman. 
Thn Texas gov!irnor and Hopublican presidential front­runner, rntianwhilf., insisted again that nPither Im nor his f'~tlhor sought 
s ll (', h 
"I'm proud ofmy service with the Air
assis­
National 

tance and any allegation that 
Guard. Barnes

whnn Im 
my dad askedfor special 
called Gen.

joi11tit.l 
favors is simply (James) Rose 
t h c' 
(Texas Air

Guard. not true." 
Guard com­
"I can 
mander) and

t1df you 
George W. Bush did so, "the 
w h a L 
statement

GOP presidential candidate
h a p ­
penod. 
Nothing 
h a p ­
pcnPd. 
My Guard unit was looking l'or 
pilots and I new l'or tlrn 
Guard," Bush said at a cam­
paign appearance south of 
llouston. 
'Tm proud or my service 
and any allegation that my dad 
asked !'or special f'avors is 
simply not true.... I didn't 
ask anybody to help g11t me 
to llrn Guard nither," Bush 
said. 
Barrrns. a Democrat, hus 
bnon al the center of' ques­
tions about Bush's Vietnam­
era service fur several 
wtieks. 
llis name surfaced in· a 
lawsuit filed in federal court 
in Dallas by the l'ormnr exnc­
u tive director of the Texas 
Lottery. Lawrence Littwin 
has sued CTECM Corp., the 
lot!Bry opiirator, allnging 
that tlw l:ornpany is to blame 
!'or his firing in 1997. al'ter 
four months on the job. 
According to court 

rocords, Littwin's lawyers 
wanted to question Barnes, who used to lobby for GTECII. about whether GTE(:J I was allowp,d to keep its lucrative state contract in exchange for Barnes' silence about the Guard matter. 
Thal theory has been dis­mi sso d as unfounded by c;TECI I. Barm~s and Bush. 
Barnns testified for sever­al hours Monday in a deposi­tion in the case. Afterwards, his lawyer issued a written statemnnt saying Barnes had been contacted by the now­d11ceased Sidney Adger, a Houston oilman and friend of the elder Bush. 
"Mr. Barnes was contact­ed by Sid Adger and asked to recommend George W. Bush for a pilot position 
said. 
"Neither 
Congressman 
Bush nor any 

other member of the Bush 
family asked Barnes' help. 
Barnes has no knowledge 
that Governor Bush or 
Prnsident Bush knew or 
Barnes' recommendation," 
tlrn statement said. 
Barnes also said he met in 
Sept(imber 1998 with Donald 
Evans, a longtime friend and 
chitd' fund-raiser for 
Governor Bush. Barnes told 
Evans about Adger's 
request, and "Governor 
Bush wrote Barnes a note 
thanking him for his candor 
in acknowledging that 
Barnes received no call from 
any member of the Bush 
family." 
In an interview with The 
Associated Press, Evans said 
Im met with Barnes on his 
own initiative, without 
informing the governor in 
advance. At the time, he was 
Bush's gubernatorial cam­
paign chairman and was 
concerned only about that 
contest, Evans said. 
Bush joined the National 
Guard in 1968, at the height 
of' the Vietnam War, serving 
until late 1973. 
The Hepublican governor has said for several years that he received no special treatment, Both he and his father, the former president, have said they didn't ask for help in finding the Guard opening. 
"I don't know if Ben Barnes did or not -but he was not asked by me or my <lad." Bush said Monday. 
"l'ooµlc arc relying on wlwtlrnr a man who is dPcnased (Adger) tried to lrnlp." 
Leader/Manager. 
Full-time college students or graduates. $31 K starting salary. 
Summer Interns available. 
U.5.M.C. Officer Programs. 
Contact Lt. Simek at 
765-743-8359. 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

page 10 BSERVER Tuesday, September 2~, 1999 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. N,mc Dame. IN 465'.)6 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Notre Dam<, IN 465)6 
EDITOII. IN CH!Ef Michelle Krup:t 
MANA.GING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
M. Shannon Ryan  David Rogeco  
AssT. MANA.GING EDITOR  
Laura Petelle  

NEWS EDITOR: Tim Logan VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughen Sl'ORTS EDITOll: Brian Kessler 
SCENE EDITOR! Michael Vanegas SAINT MA.RY'S EDITOR: Noreen Gilhpic PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Dalurn 
ADVERTISING MANAGER! Bryan Lutz 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Bm Huelat SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers WEil ADMIN!5TRATOR: Erik Kushto 
CONTROLLER: Timothy Lane GRArHICS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER.IGENERAL INFO..............63 I -7 4 7 I FAX............•..............................................•63I-6927 
ADVERTISING ..................................... 631-6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AssT. ME. ...................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE....................................... 631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu SCENE........................................... ; ............ 631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAJNT MARY'S............................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu 
PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visir our Web sire ar bttp:llobserver.ndedu for daily updares ofcampill news. spon:.s. features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associared Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rates of print ads 
cial campl!S coverage 
about The-Observer
archives w search for 
articles published after 
to meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independem, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. Acting as pub­lisher ofThe Observer, the administration ofrhe University ofNotre Dame du Lac prohibirs rhe adver­tisement ofalcohol and The Observer's acceptance of advercisemenrs from specified types ofgroups. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represem the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chie[ Managing Editor. Assistant Managing Editor and deparcmem ediwrs. Commenraries, letters and rolumns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily rhose ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through leuers is encouraged. 
Qwuion.r regarding Ob~rverpo/ides Jhouid be dzrm:­rd to Editor in Cl,ief Mzc~lk Krnpa. 

Most likely, if you're a liberal arts major, you'll make the commitment to attend graduate school somewhere Mary Beth Ellis 
around May of your senior year, and the decision-mak­Changes in ing process will latitudes, muse the following changes in reaction;"Oh, my attitudes God. I have no job.· Or health insur­ance·. Or life. And I'm out of Cheez-Its. ls it too late to change my major?" 
"It is? Crap. Well, there has to be a graduate school around here some­where." More enlightenment' More knowledge! More massive, interest­bearing debt! And then new, pesky questions will crop up, in no particular order. I'll try to give you a heads-up on some answers. 
1) In which subject should I obtain my Master's degree? 
Your choice of Master's program should be contingent upon the real­world relevance of your undergraduate degree. Higher education is the only place in the solar system where Classical Greek History majors are taken seriously as human beings, so you should hang around it as long as you possibly can, preferably until the point where the only job you're quali­fied for is to teach younger, equally unhirable versions of yourself. Look, you're already living in a box. You might as well go the whole nine and decorate it with a Ph.D. It can serve as insulation, if nothing else. 
The more useless your major was, the more you should strive to subcate­gorize yourself into academic oblivion. If you're a Hideous Midwestern Lawn Decoration Studies major, go right ahead and get your Masters in Lawn Jockey Performance. For instance, I earned my BA in English and political science. Just what am I going to do with that? Advise the Bush campaign on the nation's vital Early Pre­Raphaelite Poetry issues? Of course not! I'm getting an MFA in creative nonfiction writing! There are only something like seven universities in the entire country that even offer such a program! My uselessness grows semes­ter!y! It's all fun and games until nobody hires you. 

On thB other hand, if you had the foresight to major in something useful, such as business administration, you probably already have a job and health insurance and a steady supply of Cheez-Its and therefore have no need for graduate school. 
2) Are you or are you not one of' the most talented. attractive people ever to graduate from this community'? 
I am. 
3) Is it true that I have to take a bat­tery of standardized tests to apply tel graduate school? 
You need to take the GRE, which is just like the SAT and ACT, only far more evil and way less fair. You have to take it on a computer, which -this is God's truth -tracks your responses, and if you're getting a lot of answers right, it makes the test HARDER. It's kind of like Bill Kirk instantaneously developing Jedi mind probe powers the second you step into a Student Affairs hearing. You're not allowed to use a calculator, and in no way are you test­ed on anything you actually may have learned in college. For instance, there are no questions asking you to calcu­late the proper font and margin correc­tions necessary to magically transform a two-page paper into a seven-page one. 
4) Should l attend law school? Ask somebody else. [ don't do lawyer jokes. 
5) Why didn't I get into my first­choice graduate school? 
My guess would be because you stunk. 
6) But you didn't get into YOUH first­choice school. 
This was a rare instance in which the institution, not the applicant, stunk. 
7) Will applying to graduate school cost anything? 
My precious, precious child. !lave you forgotten so much in four soggy years? Do you not recall application foes? And standardized testing fees'? And, "mail­ing you a postcard with your name mis­spelled to tell you not to let the door­knob of the admissions office hit you on your way out" fees? 
All told, your bill for applying to grad schools should read like this: 
GHE, TOFEL, LSAT: application, test prep books and classes, long distance phone calls, postage and "postcard ... doorknob ... " foes: $700 
Cost of undergraduate degree: $100,000 
Cost of requesting an official tran­scripdor your application: $2.00 per measly piece of paper. (Thaaaaat's right. Never mind the original hun­dred-thousand dollar investment. You have to compensate the registrar's office for performing the laborious task of shoving the grades YOU earned into an envelope. Forget computer pro­gramming. Major in registraring. That's where the money is.) 
Mary Beth Ellis is a 1999 graduate of Saint Mary's College who is currently applying to graduate school. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Even a stopped clock is right twice a day" 
Marie Ebner Von Eschenbachz 
'\ 

Tuesday, September 28. 1999 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Build another Reckers 
I rnalizncl Lhi} wenkm1d is that Notre Dame definitely needs another-~4-hour hangout. Heckl1rsjusl doesn't· cut il. 
After the bagillion dances this weekend let out in the middle of the night, countless couples lloodcd out of the dorms and hcaclod to, basically, tlm only place they could still hangout and grab a bite tu fHLL at that hour -Heckers. This crnal1-1s a trnmcndous problem bncause tlm staff and the place itselr can only support so many people. Tlmn things start looking like a disas­ter relief shelter comprised ofwell-drnssnd, albeit ine­briated, people. When I arrived at Heckers at 2<Hl Sunday morning, the place was already filled to capac­ity and the line was about to pour out the main doors. To exp11ct to get service and nut die of old age while waiting in line was out of the question. 
I think the solution to this problem lies in another 24-hour restaurant. In far.tit doesn't even need lo be open 24-hours, it just needs to be open during the graveyard hours. so insomniacs, like me, can have a place to hang out and get something to Mt. Prel'erably it would be in North Quad sow; to stem student flow in South Quad and give staggering couples that much less ol' a distance to walk. I already know lhat constructing a whole new building in this area probably isn't feasi­ble, so. I suggest gutting out the ground lloor of Urn I lesburgh Library and putting in couches, a stereo sys­tem and a small kitchen to make food or just have LaFortune open 24-hours. 
This problem is definitely not going lo go away any­limn soon. I just hopn that by bringing this problem to light, something will eventually be donP. Them is no way I'll wait half an hour for wood-firnd pizza no mat­l!'r how good it is. 
David Woo freshman, Siegfried Hall September 27, 19'J9 
Too many assumptions 
As a freshman hem al Notre Dame, I was appalled to hear an alumnus speak in such a mannnr lcommnnting on how inconsiderate and inapproprial<\ tlrn student body behaved at thu Notre Dame-Michigan State foot­ball game] about the current student body. Mr. Misch's commcnli; in his Sept. 23 letter are not relleclive of the entire student body. I was seated just three rows bd1ind him and saw almost none of the behavior that lrn described. 
Yes, a few of'students engaged in nn inappropriate salute, but unlike the impression that he gives, it was not imitated by the vast majority of the students. Yes, many of' tlw students left the game beforp the team left th!~ field. but from my own observations, tlm majority of the non-student fans appeared to leave lirst. In fact. al loast 50 people seated around me stay!1d until every player was off the field, showing their support for the team. Many of the so-called dedicated alumni did not seem to care enough to give these players the same type or respect 
However, the view I considered the most inaccurate was the pegging of the entire student body as. "a pam­pnred, spoiled, self-indulgent cluster c)I' arrogant ado­lnscents." I do not dare to say how he could have con­cocted such a slanted and biased view of' a group of people whom he does not even know and has little con­Lael with outside of that one particular instance. I was silting noar him; does that mPan I lit his dnsGription? !low can he dare maku the assumption that Im knows anything about my life because of a rowdy minority at a football game? Do I dare to make assumptions on his lifo based on one Jettt~r I saw printed in the newspa­p11r'! Maybe I should, in order to apply the set of stan­dards that lrn might have learned as an adolnscm1t hem. 
Finally. I would like to say that while football is an integral part of student life here at Notre Dame, it is not the sole purpose for any student to com(i lwm. We cume here to learn, not just to watch football. Whether you think our sportsmanship deserves a $100,000 edu­cation or not, our academics do. 
Erin English 
Freshman. P .. ,qucrilla £:1st H.1II Scprember 23, l999 

page 11 
Limits of the free speech clause 
Docs auyone actually believe in "freedom of' speech" anymore? 
I do not. Nor do my ideological opposites. Oh, I suppose that there needs to be som(\ ordewd liberty in-the renlm of the cxprtis­Sean Vinck sion and 
exchange of' ideas in a Not peace. but society. I also the sword believe that there must exist a degrnc or frncdom in the type ol' ideas that am expressed, engaged and exchanged in the uniqufl context of a university. But, I do not believe in an absolute license to engage in any type of' expression or speech. I do not even bdieve that the principle of free­dom· of speech or freedom of _expression is a particularly laud­able facet of a governmc·nt, a soci­ety or a university. 
You may be a bit surprised by this. And I admit, a rather bold statement such as the one I have just uttered requires some expla­nation. Let us consider the P-thics uf pluralistic democracy in which we were inculcated as children. I was taught that one uf the great aspects of American republo­democracy was the rock-solid principle that any American could express any opinion, irrespective of the contnnt of that opinion. Though them were some con­straints (the ACLU, the chief harlot of absolute relativism and pseudo­Marxism in America, loves to men­tion "shouting lire in a crowded theatre" as an example of speech that should not be protected by the First Amendment), generally speaking, American society, and Notre Dame as well, defend the right of individuals to express any opinion. I am reminded of how piously one postmodernist drooled to me, "I may not like your opin­ion, but I will defend to the death your right to express it." Such a statement is utter nonsense. 

Liberals are just as eager as I am to censor and dist;riminate against certain forms of speech and expr:-essl_on. I am honest about it. They are not. the question is not whether wi~ should" engage in censorship, but rather what types of speech should be censored. Notre Dame's problem does not lie in the fact that it has censored speech; its problem is that it has not censored enough. 
I. for example, \VOuld propose censoring pornographk or pseu­do-sexual images from all maga­zines, books, journals and materi­als at the University. My argument is simple. The moral ordering of the community of the University is the just function of the administra­tion. Our moral norms are deter­mined by the magisterial pro­nouncements of the Mother Church. Therefore, those things that constitute a moral danger to individuals in the community or the community as a whole ought tu be prohibited. 
And, by making this argument, I can predict the shrieks of horror reverberating through the halls of Decio: "We must have absolute academic freedom and freedom of speech to perform our teaching and research functions!" But, this would be a dishonest objection. As I said, Liberals, relativists and postmodernists are just as eager as I am to censor certain speech. We unly disagree on two points. As was stated, I admit my desire to censor, while they do not. I want to censor those things that contradict the will of God that is communicat­ed to us through the Church. They want to censor things they deem "racist, sexist, and homophobic," even though they don't consider it censorship. 
My point is simple: The purvey­ors of postmodernism at Notre Uame are just as dogmatic as they accuse orthodox Catholics of being. Liberals willingly censor speed1 that they deem politically incorrect; they seek to change our vocabulary to exclude pronouns they deem non-inclusive; they want to silence Catholic teaching that demands purity and chastity from all people; they disavow, ignore and fail to teach adequately the teachings of a pope they deem "out of touch"; They have burned newspapers with which they dis­agree at political rallies; they demand "hate crime" laws that define certain motivations for crime (racism, homophobia, sex­ism) as more despicable than any other motivation. 
No one believes truly in absolute freedom of speech. 
· So, the absolute right to free speech or free inquiry or academic freedom is not, in and of itself vir­tuous. If anything, it leads to destructive and harmful ends for individual souls. The over reaching 
· principle of our academic efforts is not, under any circumstances, absolute freedom of inquiry. In fact, our efforts at intellectual exploration are truly "free" only when they are ordered to the greater glory of God, not prostitut­ed to the post-modernist dogma of relativism. We must not unite our efforts to the latest fad of godless higher education; on the contrary, we must dedicate ourselves with­out reserve to the discovery of truth -the true end of University education. 
Sean Vinck is a junior PLS major. His column appears every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Breaking the barrier of silence 
I am in complete support of' and excited from the letter from the Sept. 27th issue, "ND needs tu hear silent screams of eating dis­orders ..." but would like to add my own comments in order to, hopefully, provoke further discus­sion. Although today's letter was true in all its aspects, I think the emotional and scary message that eating disorders KILL needs to again be emphasized and pro­voked to start changing some­thing. 
The anonymity is one reason why eating disorders continue to bP "the silent disease." By the nature of an eating disorder those directly affected usuicdly do not spl\ak out. do not want to attend support groups and f'eel much nmbarrassment. Does it sound contradictory to you that tho skeleton sitting next to you only eats the-minimal amount to sur­vive because she wants attention or b!. raus<~ being as thin as a pin is glamorous? Of course it is con­tradictory, because. IJy lhat time the skeleton is caught in her own little world with hnr best friend ­her eating disordt1r. 
Feeling that her eating disorder is her best friend, and now proba­bly her only friend, it is nearly impossible for her to seek out a support group. Similarly. parents, friends and family may be scared that forcing them to confront the eating disorder will strain or break their relationship. That leaves one thing ... their loved one DYING emotionally and possibly physically from an eating disor­der. 

So, where lam going with all of this? I am writing back to suggest what the other person didn't ... what and how does the NOTRE DAME FAMILY deal with eating disorders? After attempting to begin a campus club in support of informing the campus, to start support groups and to gather those concerned to open up dis­wssion, I bavc experienced failure because of the following: 
1. 
The silent nature of eating disorders. 

2. 
The changing processes of those going through the disorder who can participate sometimes but not others. 

3. 
The lack of support from the administration. 


So, am .I just going to complain'? Sort of, I guess, because as a small group we couldn't accomplish our goals. I believe, though, that hav­ing the opportunity to write this letter could begin by challenging the, at least, 80 percent of people in the NOTRE DAME FAMILY that have been influenced by eating disorders to start asking ques­tions, start being concerned and start acting against eating disor­ders before one of OUR OWN DIES (doesn't that sound morbid?). Sound out of wack? I can tell you that some of those that I consider my family already have. I am will­ing to help but no one person can do it on his own (a lesson that many of those with eating disor­ders often need to learn). So, I guess this letter is a challenge to the anonymous and the 80 percent of people that could offer help and advice, because they have experi­enced it. Stop seeing your FAMILY members suffer. The solution is actually even more simple than forcing an anornxic to eat, which will get none of us anywhere. The answer is to begin discussion, inform yourself and help inform others. BHEAK THE SILENCE and REPLY TO MY (and the anony­mous person's) CONCERNS with how you are going to stop the spread of this SAD and, even more smry, DEATHLY disorder. 
JoAnna Deeter Senior September 27, 1999 

--------,•·r
I I 


page 12 ossi:RvER Tuesday, September 28, 1999 
CONCERT REVIEW 
It's 'moe.' than just a great show 
By ANDREW JONES 
Scene Music Critic 
Shortly past 7 p.m. on Friday, Sep_t. 24. anxious banter filled Tbe Vic Theater in Chicago. Chants, clapping and the clink of boLtles were highly audible, and the smoke in the theater was so thick one could have cut it with a knife. Tic-dyes, hemp, beads. dreads and bloodshot eyeballs were in high fashion for the buzzing crowd. The house lights dimmed. and the audi­enr0 erupted as Al Schnier, Rob Derhak. Chuck Garvey. Vinnie Amico and guest percussionist Jim Loughlin. strolled out under the stage lights. moe.'s "Quest For Ray" tour had arrived in Chicago. Formed in 1991, moe. hails from Buffalo. NY.. and foatur~s a highly­energized. improvisational bluegrass rock sound that incorporates other genres, such as jazz and reggae. In 1997, moe. was voted onP of Rolling Stone's 10 hottest underground bands and began drawing the attraction or many Phish-hcads. Back at The Vic, tapers formed a row of about 10 to 15 microphon!l stands ready to capture last Friday's jams in their entirety. Tapes and CDs of the evening's performance will begin to circulate among moe. fans a few days after the show. Typically known as a jam band. moe. thrives primarily on its live performances. And jam they did. The band began the first set with a high-paced version of "Brent Black," which featured Derhak on lead vocals. While Derhak is not the world's great­est vocalist, his definitive bass lines never ceased. He stepped away from the microphone to gel with his fellow band mates during the opening song, and jaws dropped as he plunged into a five-minute bass solo. Awestruck, the audience watched as he demonstrated his ability to slap, finger pick and furiously ardculate the fingerboard of his bass. Derhak's 
bandmates bopped their heads as they pro­vided rhythm for his sulo. 
Wbile the band conveyed a high sense of energy in "Brent Black." it did not connect with the audience very well. During other tunes such as "Stranger Than Fiction" and "Opium." mul',. 's energy was incon­sisten L 
For example. guitarists Schnier and Garvey often manipulated their delay pedals, a tool that can easi­ly mask mediocre soloing skills. Also, the light show for !he first set was generally poor and.featured nothing unique. 

The band ended the set with Considered one of the 10 hottest bands of 1997 by Rolling Stone, moe. jammed earlier this year to "Recreational a sold-out crowd at the Hammerstein Ballroom in New York City. 

Chemistry," dur­ing which Lou­ghlin drew the crowd's attention on percussion. Hands flying as he played the bongos, Loughlin seemed to be tho only musician not detached from the performance by the end of the first set. 
Returning to the stage f'or tho second set, moe. performed "Seat Of' My Pants." Already, it was dear the band was more involved in its jamming. "Seat of My Pants" featured less delay pedals on behalf of the guitarists, and Garvey proved to be a true master of the instrument. Garvey soloed on his Fender Stratacaster with a blazing intensity that triggered an intensity in the band's overall feel. 

UPCOMING 8ONCERTS · 


l11diesrrl Conce1'tt Umphrey•sttcGee 
Citjzen Kina· 
E•ton. John· 
FamUy Values TO.UC Melissa Etherid9e Bruce Sprin9steen 
Bruce Sprinasteen John Popper Bancli Len Ben Folds Five Pav•iment · 
The group brought the crowd to life performing "Happy Hour Hero," dur­ing which Garvey's phrasing was funky and precise, but "Yodelitile," with a segue into "Four," proved to be the climax of the show. These two songs exemplified tight, lengthy jams that sustained intensity whether the jam's tempo was mellow or fast-paced.. 
Lighting director Chris Ragan pro­vided fabulously psychedelic eye­candy as swirling triangles swept across the crowd in sync with the music and sharp purple light searched every corner of the Vic. The crowd grooved through the entire second set. The night ended with a 15-minute ver­sion of "Meat," during which Amico 
South Bend 
.t•••••.TH•••r•,w5l'IC
Madison Oyter Bar Heartland Joyce Center 
df,.;:,_ ·-:._.._.i&¥Jf}WJ·::.... -. 
Indianapolis 
.Market2,S.q. Arena 
Murat Theatre Conesco .Fieldhouse 

United .center Metro Metro Riviera 
"Vic Theat1~ •· 


displayed his talents as a percussion­ist. 
For an encore, moe. did what they do best: a jam that segued into the popular "llobubula," featuring another bass line or incredible virtuosity that only Derhak could pull off. There could not have been a better song to end the show. 
The band had The Vic on fire, and the crowd was thoroughly impressed by moe.'s performance. So if you're not an audiophile who can't listen to anything but U93, get out and groove to moe. the next time it's in the area. 
Surrender to the buzz of the perfor­mance, melt away in the lights, melt away in the jams. 
il'oniahJ Oct. I ··oct. 13 Nov.13 
,.Oct•.6 Oct. 19 
Nov. 10 


Sep:&~-27-30 
Oct~ 2 i Oct. 7 '"Oct. 14 
;;;·· ::~,,~l;! it·• 



THE Tuesday, September 28, 1999 OBSERVER page 13 
Campus radio stations provide alternative listening 
By RICK SILVESTRINI 
Scc11c Music Crnic 
S1iarching thn radio dial in South BP1td can lrn a painful pro!'ess !'or musidovcrs, purLicularly !'or alternutivn rans. While th<ffn is morn than enough (:ountry, classic rnck and bad top 40, South Btmd radio has almost no outlnt for altNnativn music. This musicc1l void can b1\ f'ruslrating for Notre Damn slu­dnnts accustomed tu hearing uxclusivn­ly altnrnative stations at home; somn gHt to tlw point whern they don't bother turning thP radio on. But NotrP Damn, unlikl' most other uni­vNsitios, is fortunate 
___.,:,.;·.:,~-::~.,.--,_.... , •'>J,.<.:·_, 
nnough lo havn twu Hall freshmen. "The studHnt-run radio sta­music selection is def'i­tions that of'fot: at fpast nitl!lv way bettor than somo ·alLtirnutiv1\ pro­an~lh,_ing· else on the gramming: 88.9 FM radio.
WVFI
WSNI> and (140 AM While WSND offers 
__ -,,.;,,w'-­

wv1;1, which broad-classical and l'ine-arts 1:asts nxdusiwly on tlrn programming during 
--------~~~---_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_--_--=----=--=-·-----==--=----========================================================================-===================== 
ALBUM REVIEW 
'~ing'-leader of emo pack debuts second album 
By JOHN HUSTON Scene Music Critic 
Tlwrp's a word that should be crnep­ing up on mass-consciousness soon: mno. 
l•:mo, l"or thos1) who don't know, is indin-rock with emotional lyrics. The l'romisn !ting is at the head of the emo pack, propelled by the pop genius of its third album. Very Emergency. 
Along with fellow genrc-mal!~s GnL Up Kids. Sunny Day Real Estate and .IP.ts to Brazil, The Promise Ring crn­aws hauntingly endearing music. Whal SP.ts it apart l'rom the otlrnrs, though, is tlw group's ability to writn the pnrfuct hook. 
Each song is like a pi1ice or candy. likn a Werther's Original -sugary mrnugh to satisfy thn _taste buds, but aftPr it's gmrn one is left craving more. llours could be spent thinking up ways tu find anotlrnr Werther's Original to saliatP a wal!\ring mouth. 
Tlw sanrn goes for the new Promise 
NEW RELEASES 
Internet at http://wvfi..nd.edu/. 
Alternative fans have to work a little harder to hear their favorite lype of music on either station. WSND only broadcasts their self-proclaimed "unique blend of collPgo rock and mod­c r11 altPrnative music" during its Nocturnn shows from midnight to 2 
a. 111. Only computers equipped with a HPalAucliu G2 player can hoar WVFI. and ,wen then, only bct.wc\en the hours ol' 10 a.m. and 1 :45 a.m. 
Despite thosH uimcullies, campus lis­t<'ncrs have found both stations to be proverbial diamonds in Urn rough. 
'Tvn actuallv listrmed [to I both Nocturne and som o stul'f on V F l. ·• sai.d Joe Ko!L a Zahm most of the broadcast 
WVFI has a show for it. day, the station goes And you won't hear most alternative when the of it anywhere else," sta­Nocturne shift starts at tion manager John midnight. It features a Forgash said. mix of famous bands like While WSND prese­Lit, Len and Caroline's lects most of the sta­Spino. some tosser tion's musical selection, knowns like Robin WVrI gives their DJs Hitchcock and Bis, and much more freedom in campus bands like The selecting their own Florida Evans Show music, which results in 

Band & Review. 

"We try to mix it up," said co­Nocturne director .Jeremy Sony." We definitely don't want Nocturne to be jtist alternative top 40 for two hours, so we make sum to add stuff that's good but that people haven't heard." 
WVFL on the other hand, is back on the air afler equipment failure shut it down last fall. The station offers a wide range of shows and musical types including alternative music. 
"We've got a lot of good people doing all kinds of' shows. Metal, ska. reggae ­you name it and I bet somebody at 
the station's refreshing variety. 
"The majority of the stuff I play is my own." said WVFI DJ Steve Martin. "I think it's great that VF! lets the OJ real­ly run his own show. I can be more cre­ative with the music." 
That creativity is really tho difference between Notre Dame student radio and thn rest of the South Bend market. Instead or test-marketed and over­hyped songs in a variety of formats, WSND and WVFI provide a valuable and much-needed alternative to an oth­erwisn dull South Bend radio dial. 
Hing album -it's Some are melan­m1arly impossible choly like to get the chorus "Things Just of' the second Getting Good" t r a c k , and "All of my "Emergency, Everythings." Enrnrgency," out The others are of vour head. lt's everywhere in that good. between. 
But wouldn't Besides tasting someone who ate great, The 10 Werther's Promise Ring is Originals in a row good for you too! gHt sick to his D a v e y stomach'! Nope. Von Bohlen, It's very hard to singer/guitarist, get sick or The includes some Promisl' Hing. thought-provok­
Luckily, the ing, lyrical gems. band serves up a In "Living variety or candy­Around," coated cmo songs VonBohlen !'or the listener to reveals, 'Tm los­suc:k on. Somf\ ing my voice are happy and talking to you bouncy like about talking to "Skips a Beat." you." In 



Today 


Creed -Human Clay Every1hin9 But -the Girl -Tempermen1al lndi90 Girls -Come On Now Social Nuse -Showbiz Our Lady Peace -Happiness 
October.S. 

David Bowie..... Hours NeHssa Etheridae -Breakdown Live -Distance-to Here moe. -FaC:boy 
"Happiness is all the Rage," the album opener, he sings, "doing laundry final­ly, the first sign of first light, still noth­ing to wear between us." 
Almost every song contains poetic plays on words that insist there is more lyrical substance than the average group. In "Jersey Shore," VonBohlen sings that he is "bored walking on the boardwalk." 
Their 1997 album Nothing Feels Good was good, but this album is a masterpiece. It puts them up there on the "alternative rock" pedestal along­side icons such as R.E.M., Nirvana and the Pixies. 
The Promise Ring's music is general­ly smarter, more honest and more emotional than most of the "alterna­tive" that gets attention today. Very Emergency is an incredible album and a superb introduction to "emo." The whole emo genre is a goldmine of incredible music that is just waiting to be thrown in front of the public's ears, and The Promise Ring is emerging as the king. 

Tuesday, September 28, 1999

pagc;: 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Yankees lose third straight, fall to Devil Rays 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Since clinching a postseason berth, the New York Yankees have looked nothing like a playoff team. 
New York made three errors and allowed all of Tampa Bay's runs to score with two outs as the Yankees lost their third straight to the Devil Rays, 10-6 Monday night. 
Fred McGriff and Bubba Trammell homered and Dave Martinez drove in three runs for the Devil Rays. Tampa Bay had lost 17 of their first I 8 games to New York -includ­ing all nine at Yankee Stadium -before winning the final three games of the four-game series. 
The Yankees rallied to win 
the opener 4-3 in 11 innings 
Friday on rookie Alfonso 
Soriano's homer, and clinched 
their fifth straight playoff berth 
when Oakland lost that night. 
Since then, they've looked 
sluggish, losing three straight 
to the last-place Devil Rays. 
The Yankees have six games remaining to tune up for the playoffs and wra_p up their third AL East title in four years. New York's magic num­ber remained at three after Boston beat Baltimore 5-3. 
The Yankees (94-62) are one 
game behind Cleveland for the 
best record in the AL and only 
one game ahead of Texas for 
home-field in a potential play­
off matchup. 
Mike Duvall (1-1) allowed 
one run in 2 2-3 innings in 
relief of Dave Eiland for the 
win. Jeff Sparks got four outs 
for his first career save. 
Hideki Irabu (11-7) was 
knocked out after two innings for the second time in four starts, jeopardizing his spot on the postseason roster. 
He retired the first two bat­ters in each inning before get­ting into trouble. He walked Jose Canseco with two outs in the first and McGriff followed with his 31st homer, giving him 100 RBIs on the season. 
White Sox 3, Twins 1 
Brook Pordyce hit a two-run double in the ninth inning and the Chicago White Sox bt~at the Minnesota Twins. 
Chris Singleton doubled wilh two outs off Bob Wells (8-2). Wells then walked Paul Konerko and reliever Eddie Guardado walked Brian Simmons to load the bases. 
Fordyce followed with his ·double ·off Mike Trombley. 
Bill Simas (6-3) pitched two scoreless innings for the victo­ry. Keith Foulke worked the ninth l'or his ninth save. 
Starter Kip Wells held the Twins without a hit for the first five innings. 
Chad Allen singled to right leading off the Minnesota sixth and moved up on an unusual balk -Mark Johnson was called for moving out of' the catcher's box too early to receive a pitchout. 
Allen taler scored on Corey 
Koskie's two-out single. 
Wells walked !'our and hit a 
batter in six innings in his sixth 
major league start. He has 
given up two runs or !'ewer in 
five of those starts. 
Brad Radke allowed three 
hits and four walks in eight 
innings, striking out two. 
Radke was masterful through 
the first four innings, allowing only ,l bloop singln by Paul 
Koncrko. But he walked Konnrko with two outs in tlw lil'th and Simmons d1iliv1:r11<l an IWI tripln. 
Tlw White Sox put two run­ners on base with 0110 out in the Pigl1th, but Ray Durham hit into a doublP play. 
Rangers 3, Mariners 2 

I.on SttWl!llS drnv<• in tho go­alwad run with an 1dghth­inning sacril'icn l'ly as Lim AL Wnst champion Tnxas Hangers won llwir f'ourth straight gamn. over tlw Snatlln Marinors. 
The Hangt!rs (93-(d) moved :10 gunrns over .500 l'or tlHi first tinw in Learn historv. 
John Wetteland· scl a club record with his 4:frct save, brnnking tho mnrk Im snl last ynar. lie alsu tied his career high. aci:omplislwd lwicl' in the past. 
Juan Conzaloz doubll'cl with 01m out in tlrn Texas nighth off St,•vn Sinclair (0-1) and Haf'uel l'almeiro was intnntionally walked. 
Todd Zeile drnw a walk from Jose Mesa, the third SPattle µitcher. to load the l.:mses. Stevens lil'tocl a l'ly ball to ld'L and Conzalez scornd ahead of Brian !luntpr's throw. 
Tim Crablrn1) (:i-1) 1.hrnw 1 2-3 p()rl'oct innings f'or t.lw vic­torv. WettPland workml a hit­lnssninLh. 
Hang<\rS manag<•r .Johnny Oatos cuntinued Lo start his top players as Tuxas trins to linish with the league's best rncord to S<1curn honrn-11eld advantagP in tlw playoffs. 
Haul Ibanez homcrnd in the 
third to ext,rnd Uw Mariners' 
club-record strnak to l 9 games 
with a lnast one honrnr. 
Gonzalnz scored in tlrn sec­ond as Zeile grounded into a double play. 
Marinors starter Frnddy Garcia lnl't a 2-2 game al'ter seven innings. He gave up ninP hits, struck out five and walked two. 
Red Sox 5, Orioles 3 
Pnclro Marti1rnz struck out 12 to giv<i him a career-high :112 for l110 season, h\ading Boston to a victory over Urn Balti1norn Orioles and guaranteeing th!) H1!d Sox at least a tin fur tlw AL wild-card borth. 
Boston holds a six-ganw lnad ov<w Lhc idle Oakland Athletics in tlrn wild-card ra<.:o with six games ldt for each learn. 
Martinnz (23-4) leads llrn majors in wins and EHA (2.08) and tops llrn AL in striknouts. This was probably his last full outing of' tlrn regular season. 
Tho gamo f'catured a bonch­clearing starcdown in tho sev­en th inning afler Brady Anderson. who had been hit by a pitch in the f'il'th inning, scored on a passed ball and brushed by Martinez as he scornd to make it 5-.2. 
Marti1wz glared at Anderson as he walked back lo the dugout, and even though homo plate umpirn Gary Cnderstrom stay<id lrntwtH)l1 tlrn two play­ers, thn dugouts and bullpens omplit•d onto tlw field. 
Martin,:z struck out Alben 13()110, tht! next batlnr and Martinez's last of tlrn game, and tlrn crowd erupted. Dernk Lowe pitchod tlw ninth inning for his ·15th save. 
Martinez alluwnd one ,iarned run on six hils. walking no1Hi. lfo struck out at least IO bat­wrs ror tlrn oighth consncutivP tim<!. the 19th time this season and tlw 54th time of his career. 

Jason Varitek homered and added a two-run double, and Damon Buford had three hits l'or tho Red Sox. Brian Daubach also homered for the Red Sox. 
Scott Erickson (15-12), who had won l'ive straight starts, allowml 11vo runs on eight hits and two walks in seven innings. Anderson doubled twic1), and Jerry Hairston had three hits as Baltimore lost for only the third time in its last 19 gamns. 
Martinez improved to 8-1 with a 1.27 ERA in 10 starts sinco coming off the disabled list. 
Jfo l'annnd Hyan Minor in the l'if'th inning to give him a carn1)r-best 306th strikeout of the S<)ason, topping his 1997 total ol' :ms with the Montreal Expos. llis 10th strikoout, also against Minor, in the seventh inning, was greeted by cheers ol' "M-V-P." 
Tigers 8, Royals 2 
Hobert Fick's first career grand slam helped Detroit close Tiger Stadium with a win ovor Lim Kansas City Royals. 
Luis Polonia and Karim Carcia also homered for DPtrnit. Mark Quinn homered !'or tho Hovals. 
Brian Moehler (10-16) gave up two runs and nine hits in six innings. .Jeff Suppan (10-11) was taggPd with the loss, allowing four runs and eight hits in 5 1/3 innings. 
Polonia gave Detroit a 1-0 lead with a leadoff home run in the l'irst. The Royals tied it wlrnn Quinn opened the second with a homer. 

The Observer ;ic~cprs dassific:ds every business tfoy from 8 ,1.m. tn .l \'·n1. :11 the Notre Dame o/nce, 024 South Dining Hall. I k,dline for nexr-d:1y daissificds is ,1 p.m. Al classifieds musr be prepaid. The charge is .l cents per charncter per day, including ,ill spaces. The Observer reserves rhe righr 10 edit
CLASSIFIEDS 
all classifleds for cuntc1H witlmur issuing refond,. 
HEAVENLY HAM  THAT PRETTY PLACE,  FOR SALE  FOR SALE  
LOST & FOUND  Immediate Openings for Energetic Individuals.  Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for foolball/parent wknds.  N.D. FOOTBALL TIX CALL 271-9412  N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS CALL 271·9412  PERSONAL  
Store Work Hours: M-F 7:30 to  5 Rooms with private baths. $80­ 
LOST  5:30 Sat: 8:00 to 2:30  $115, Middlebury. 30 miles from  FOR SALE  SPRING BREAK 2000  
A palmpilot. Palm V. extremely  No Sundays  campus. Toll Road Exit #107. 1­ N.D FOOTBALL TIX  "THE MILLENIUM"  Struggling with self•  
important!! If found please call 4­ Will schedule work around class­ 800-41 8-9487.  CALL 271-9412  A NEW DECADE ... NCE IN TRAV­ esteem?Frus!rated with the oppo­ 
0870  es.Apply at 2307 Edison.  EL.FREE TRIPS.FREE  site sex?Can't understand your  
288-4267  B&B Orchard Cottage  Phone Cards, 669 min/$20  MEALS!JAMAICA,CANCUN.FLORI  roommates ?Having trouble relax­ 
Games available:  243-9361 or 258-4805  DA,BARBADOS,BAHAMAS.S!GN  ing?Embarrassed about your family  
WANTED  WANTED:  Navy Oct. 30th B.C. Nov.20th  UP BY NOV. 5 FOR 2 FREE TRIPS AND FREE MEALS!  and their behavior?Fealing alone as a graduate student and wishing you  
STUDENT OPENINGS  1 or 2 Jr. or Senior classwomen to host 2  2 to 4 people in business 8 yrs.  TICKETS  1800•426-7710 WWW.SUNSPLASHTOURS.COM  had more support?IF ANY OF THESE QUESTIONS RING A BELL  
5-30 hrs./week. Flex. around  highschool senior girls wanting to  $275 2 nights  WITHYOU- 
classes.  see Notre Dame. hoping to  (219) 286-3923  I need 2 GA tix to ND vs. USC  I need ONE USC ticke11  CONSIDEA JOINING A  
Scholarships avail.  a1tend.T1me starts with lunch at  -game Call Autumn at 284·5024.  please call Nicole al X1331  GROUP!The University Counseling  
www.worklorstudents.com/lN  University Club Friday October 15  LOADED  Center is currently screening indi­ 
at noon, with a post-pep rally dinner  6 Bed rm ·00-01 yr.  WANTED NOTRE DAME FOOT·  WANTED:USCTIX  viduals with a variety of interperson­ 
282-2357  at Carriage House Includes all day  273-0482 / 234-3831  BALL TICKETS  247·1659  al concerns to join small,confidien­ 
"tailgate" Saturday in Joyce South &  271-1526  tial groups as a way to learn about  
Spring Break '00  any incidental expenses.  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  Need 3 use ticke1s  themselves and supporl others.  
Cancun.Mazatlan or Jamaica  219-291-7153  SELL & BUY GA FOOTBALL TICK·  Please call Tom 634-1440  
From $399  Other plans welcomed.Contact 219­ ETS  Please call us at 631-7336 to gel  
Reps wanted! Sell 15 and travel  287-1405, leave message.  5 bedroom house prime location  277-6619  WANTED! 2 pairs of t1x and  more information.  
free!  105 Marquette Ave Available now  Joyce/Stadium parking pass for  
LOWEST PRICES GUARAN­ Browse icpt.com for Springbreak  232-6964  WANTED·  ASU. Call Alex Boyle@ 800-221­ Dear Mom,  
TEED!!!  "2000". All destinations  ND football tix.  7676 M·F 9-5  Send Money,  
ottered.Trip Participants.Student  3,4 & 5 bdrm homes. Tall ceilings,  AM -232-2378  Much Love ....  
lnfo:Call 1-800-446-8355  Orgs & Campus Sales Reps want­ wash/dry, walk to campus. call for  PM -288•2726  NEED 8 OKLAHOMA TIX  Mikey  
www.sunbreaks.com  ed.Fabulous parties.hotels & prices.  more info. 289·4365  sets of 4 or more wanted  
ND football tix for sale.  TOP$ Paid  Quality Copies, Quickly!  
DON'T WORK THIS SCHOOL  Call lnter-Campus 800·327·6013  .Beautiful Home. 5 bedrooms. two  AM -232-2378  Colin x1627  
YEAR! $1200 TO $2000 THIS  bathrooms. Brand new stove. refrig­ PM -288-2726  We're open early, late, &  
MONTH.  erator, dishwasher, washer and  Need 4 Okla GAs  weekends.  
Part time 4 to 6 hours per week.  dryer. Alarm. Attached garage.  I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME  Eric 243-3347  THE COPY SHOP  
Nude male models needed for stu­ Fenced yard. Immaculate condition.  GAMES.2726551  LaFortuf\8 Student Center  
Call 24 hrs  denl Art film.  675.0776  ND MOM NEEDS 11 ARIZ. STATE  Phone 631-COPY  
(219) 239-6709  Mere: 247-1810  BUYING and SELLING ND FOOT­ GA'S. PLEASE CALL  
8 bedroom house. 2 baths.  BALL TICKETS.  1 ·800-447-1200, THEN  Quality Copies, Quickly!  
SPORTS CLUBS & STUDENT  Completely renovated. ND Ave.  GREAT PRICES. CALL 289-8048  PRESS 2-2242. CALL WILL BE  
GROUPS-Earn $1000-2000 with easy CIS  FOR RENT  675.0776  +++++++++++++++++++++++++++  RETURNED ASAP.  AUSTRALIA!  
·.  Fund event.No sales required Fund  ++  Need sets of two or four tickets for  SUMMER /WINTER/INTER­ 
Rasier days are filling up, so call today  ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  FOR SALE  N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS BUY ISELLJTRADE  Navy or USC games. Call Brian at 634·3346.  SHIPS/SEMESTER PROGRAMS  
ND-SMC EVENTS.  ALL GAMES  www.study-australia.com  
Contact Joe @ 1-888-522-4350.  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  Spring Break Specials!Bahamas  ALL LOCATIONS  $$$$$$$$  Contact chris@study-australia.com  
243·0658.  Party Cruise 5 Days $279' Includes  GREAT PRICES  NEED A HANG TAG FOR OK.  
Loving ND-SMC couple wishes !o  Meals! Awesome  271-9330  WEEKEND. WILL PAY BIG  Hi B,  
adopt. Will provide a lifetime of  HOMES CLOSE TO CAMPUS  eaches,Nightlife!Cancun & Jamaica  11NO STUDENT TICKETS!!  BUCKS.  Sorry I haven't written in a while.  
laughter,love,devotion and opportu­ http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/  7 Nights From $399! Florida  TICKETMART INC.  
nities.  $129!springbreaktravel.com  www.ndlickets.com  CALL KEITH @ 234·8646  Love ya,  
800-484-4699 code 0019  232-2595  1-800-678-6386  +++++++++++++++++++++++++++  $$$$$$  M  

' F w: 
, I 

Tuesday, September 28, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
NFL 
'98 NFC champs off to 0-3 start 
sequence in the first half. . 
Associated Press 
With his team already leadmK 7-0, Kurt Warner threw a 38­
SUWANEE, Ga. 
yard touchdown pass to TorryForget the Dirty Birds. These 
Holt on third-and-18. After 
are tha same ol' Falcons. 
Todd Lyght intercepted a passHardly resembling the team from Chris Chandler, Warnerthat was in the Super Bowl a 
capitalized on the very next mere eight months ago, the play with a 46-yard scoring
defending NFC champions have 
strike to Isaac Bruce. On thequickly recaptured ~ look of 
first play of' St. Louis' next pos­
incompAtence thats more 
session, Marshall Faulk brokefamiliar in Atlanta. 
off a 58-yard run to set up
"We've got to get this thing another TD.
turned around." safety Marty 
"Three

Carter said plays in a
Monday, "if 
"We ran into a buzz saw row defen­
we're going 
sively, we

in St. Louis. Wow. It was
to." 
had really

That's look­bombs away. " 
poor perf'or­ing more and 

m an c e," 

more unlikely 
Marty Carter Reeves said.
after Sunday's 
"We _just

debacle in St. Atlanta safety gave up wayLouis. when a too many bigteam that was plays. On the
4-12 a year 
road, whom ago routed thtl falcons 35-7. 

your del'!m,m has to _play wel\;The game wasn't even as cl?~m 
we~ just didn't get the Job dorni. 
as the score, the Rams scoring Morn troubling, tho Falcons on their first four possessions s1H:ondary "looked lik1~ the_and outgaining Atlanta 311-67 Keystone Kops." in thP words ofin the first halL free sal'ety Eugene Robinson.
"I thought St. Louis beat us h,: 
!Jurin« a bye week, St. Louis every phase of the gam:l, 
came ~p with a gaine plan that
coach Dan Reeves said. 
caught Atlanta completr~ly olT"Looking at the film did nothing guard.
to change that statement, otlwr ";\ lot of teams arc attackingthan it looked like they W(~re us like they expect us to be inplaying a diffonmt speed than certain coverages," Cart.er said. 
wn were." 
"They'rn exploiting the cover­i\l'ter falling behind 17-0 in 
ag<~s Wi\'rc using."
nach of their lirst two games, 
Granted, the Falcons have
lhc Falcons trailed 28-0 to the been plagund by factors beyondHams. Tim offnnse struggl(~d their conLroL All-Pro runningonce again, but this time it was back Jamal Anderson is out. for complnmented by a eompleLe thn season with a knee injury,brnakdown m1 defonsc. 
whil1\ Chandler is hobbling on a"We ran into a buzz suw in sorn hamstring.
St. Louis," Cartnr said. "Wow. It Chandl<~r missed one game,was bombs away." 
triml to µlay Sunday and wou1!u
Tlw Hams' dominanc:P \Vas 
up bPing knocked out againepitomiz(id by a thrne-play 
bel'orn halrtime. He is question­able for next weekend's garne against the Baltimorn Hav1ms. 
"It's not very good,h Chandler said Monday. "I have no idea about playing. I'm just trying to get it better before it gets worse." 
Already worse for the Falcons is the situation on the d1~fensive line, where tackles Shane Oronel.t and Ed Jasper are both out for 2-to-4 weeks. Urnnett pulled his right calf muscle, while Jasper sustained ligament damage in his loft knee. 
Mentally, the entire team is suffering a severe case of shell­s hock. Although the Falcons have never put together con­secutive winning seasons dur­ing their 34-year history, no one cxpm:tcd a start like this. 
"When you arc losing, you mwer havH the coni'idencn," ll!~(wes said. "As I have said many times. winning breBds confidence, losing brings around tho wrong kind of things: pHople second-guessing you, people talking about how bad you arc playing. That is all you hear and all you read." 
Certainly, this is not what Carter had in mind when he signed wilh lhe Falcons as a l'rCli agnnt affor eight mostly losing seasons in Tampa Bay and Chicago. 
"It's difficult to come into a situation \•vlrnrn the team did as well as this team did a y11ar ago, to eonrn into a situation wlwn! PXp<'ctations are so high and Lhen collectivdy produce so little," he said. "l\1aybn it wouldn't be so bad ii' w1e didn't lrnv<) such high 1ixpectations. That's thP most dil'li<:ull thing. Wr•'n! 011 every sµons show, 1wpry charnrnl." 

Have you heard? The Career Resource Center located in Room 114 -Flanner Hall, has evening hours Monday thru Wednesday from 5:00 -8:00 p.m. 

yeah, I'm making my way to the Career Center after classes. You know, they have staff available to view your resume and answer quick questions. There's even a computer lab to log on to Go IRISH. And don't forge~ the great 
books and resource materials. Looks like the Career Center's the place to be. 
NCAA FooTBAU 
Tennessee looks at cheating allegations 
Associawd Press 
KNOXVI.LLE, Tenn. 

Def'ending national champi­on Tennessee, which in recent years has uncovered cheating in its advanced degree pro­grams and a telephone card fraud scandal among its ath­letes, is now investigating whether tutors did schoolwork for football players. · 
Tennessee president -Wade Gilley, who started his job last month, said Monday lhe school is following "normal procedure and has turned this matter over to the (university's) gen­eral counsel's office for review." 
"Once this review is com­plete, tho university wi!l. announce ils l'indings and, ii necessary, take appropriate action,'' he said. 
Athl!itics Direl:lor Doug Dickev said the university also has l:(iportcd the matter to Southeastern Conference com­missioner Hoy Kramer. 
Tennessee coach Phillip Fulnrnr declined to discuss the allegations, which he termed "a co1H:ern." 
"If' it is unything about foot­ball, I will be glad to talk to you," he told about ~ do~en reporters who met h11n alter practice. ''The ~layers are ~ot going to allow 1t to bt1 a dis­traction." 
ESl'l\i reported Sunday that internal memos show high­level administrators in the ath­lelic dopa.rtment were told ol' four Lulors who may have don<' schoolwork !'or at least five football players, possibly violating th!\ university's honor code and I\JCAA rules. 
No1w or tho information was passed on to the proper ca!11­pus authorities charged with investigating possible rules infracLions. said Malcolm Mcinnis, NCAA compliance offirnr for Tnnnessee. 
· The allcg1id incidents dated to 1995, .and it was unclear whetlwr any of the players wern on the 1998 national champion learn. Three of the five players have transferred, according to ESPN. 
Meanwhilo, four Tennessee redshirt freshmen, including kick returner and NCAA cham­pion sprintnr Leonard Scot~, were held out of the Mempl11s game on Saturday an? placed on indel'initP suspens10n as a result ol' tlrn school's internal investigation. 
The NCAA is aware or the allegations. . 
"It is prdty early at this time tu know where any or this may go," NCAA spokeswoman Jane .Jankowski said. "Typically, in these kinds of scenarios it is very common that the university and the NCAA will be in touch." 
It's unclnar what action migh l be taken by the sd_iool or Urn NCAA if the allcgat1ons arc provnn. ln June, Minnnsota coach Clem Haskins resigned under pressurn amid accus<1tions of academic l'raud in tlw men ·s basketball pro­gram. 
Tennesse1i has invHstigated allegations of academic fraud beforn. 
In 1992. the univorsity rescinJod advanced degrees to two Univ1ffsitv of Tirnnessee Space lnsLiLutt~ graduates who providnd govflrnmcnt con­tracts to a µrofossor who sup­
plied them with plagiarized 
dissertations. All were later 
convicted of federal fraud 
charges. 
Three years later. the uni­
versity found 41 athletes 
charged $26,000 in long dis­
tan r.e tt~lephone calls to a 
stolen university phone card. 
Two players were suspended 

for a season and others 
receiVl~d lesser punishment. 
The new allegations come 
less than a month after 
Tennessee touted a much 
improved graduation rate of 
57 percent for all football 
players who enrolled in 1992. 
The graduation rate for play­
ers enrolled in 1991 was 11 
percent -one of the worst 
rates in the country. 
"Whon I was there, I never 
ran across that problem," said 
Joey Kent, a member of the 
class that entered in 1992 who 
now plays for the Tennessee 
Titans. 
"01' course you have tutors 
that know different professors 
and their tendencies. They try 
to give you every type of 
advantage that they can to 
help you succeed. But when I 
was them, they didn't do any­
thing over their duty." 
Dickey said the most press­
ing issue is to determine the 
eligibility of Scott and t~e 
threo other players -Heggie 
Hidley, Keyon Whiteside a~d 
Ryan llowe -before this 
wr.ek's game against Auburn. 
"We really have not done 
anything about longer-term 
problnms that might be out 
the re," he said. 
School investigators will 
want. to determine how many 
current players might be 
involved, the "failure to 
report" the problem to higher­
ups in the program, and the 
"overnll picture of who is man­
aging what," Dickey said. 
Carl Asp, Tennessee's NCAA faculty athletic representative, told ESPN that the internal investigation is focusing on Hon Payne, a longtime. tutor ·who has worked with hun­dreds or football players for 
more than a decade. 
H.obin Wright, the former 
coordinator for academic pro­
grams in the Tennesse~ athlet­
ic department, said she 
attempted to alert her bosses, 
Gerry Dickey and Carmen 
Tegano, to possible academic 
fraud. 

Last December, she sent a 
memo to Dickey -no relation 
to Doug Dickey -in which she 
said tutor Jenai Brown "admit­
ted to me that she had been 
'helping the guys with their 
papers."' 
Brown denied doing any 
work for players she tutored. 
"That's a lie, I can tell you 
that," she said. 
According to memos 
obtained by ESPN. Wright 
cited five unidentified players 
she believed may have com­
mitted academic fraud -a 
del'ensive lineman, a line­
backer, a receiver, a defensive 
back and a center. 
The defensive back used an 
unapproved math tutor wh_o 
admitted she had gone to his 
classes and taken notes, both 
"clear violations of rules," 
Wright said in a memo. 
Wright, who now runs tutor­
ing programs for all students 
at Steplrnn F. Austin University 
in T1·\xas, did not return a call 
seeking comment Monday. _ 

NFL 
Miami's Underwood stabs himself 
Associated Press 
LANSING, Mich. 
Dimitrius Underwood, the first-round draft pick who left the Minnesota Vikings after one day in training camp, apparently slashed his neck with a knife, police said Monday.· 
Police found the defensive end, who later changed his mind and signed with Lhe Miami Dolphins, Sunday after­noon after getting calls 
that a man 
"This is real rough for the of child sup­
was yelling 
family. They are going port. A $500
for help. 
bond was

Underwood through a real rough 
posted for him 

was covered time, like any family 
about three

with blood 
would at a time like this." hours later,
as officers 
b u t

approached. 
Cnderwood

"He was Lt. Ray Hall 
refusr.d to

somewhat 
police spokesman leave the jail
despo.n­dent," police spokesman Lt. Ray Hall said. "He was upset, physically upset." 
Hall said Underwood appar­ently cut his neck at the homo of the mother of his twin 1 7 ­month-old children. No one in the home saw him cut himself, but several people in the neigh­borhood saw him running down the street afterward. 
Police took Underwood to Sparrow Hospital, where he was listed in fair condition Monday after undergoing surgery Sunday. No further information was released at the request of his family. 
"This is real rough for the family," Hall said. "They're going through a real rough time, like any family would at a time like this." 
Hall said physical evidence at the scene and witnesses' state­mfmts convinced police 
Underwood used the knife ou himself. The officer would not describe the knife, other than to say it was a common house­hold knife. He declined to say if Underwood had written a sui­cide note. 
ATTENTION 
UNDERGRADUATE 
AND GRADUATE 
STUDENTS 
WORLDWIDE 

.CENTER.COM 
PURSUE JOB AND INTERNSHIP OPPORTUNITIES 
THAT SPAN THE GLOBE 
The 22-year-old player coop­erated with police when they found him about 12:45 p.m. Sunday and has spoken with police since, llall said. He declined to say if Underwood gave them a reason for his actions. but said polirn are close to completing their inves­tigation. 
"'Our attention is turned toward safeguarding his good mental health," Hall said. 
Underwood was arrested bv Lansing police about 7 p.n1. 
Saturday for 
nonpayment 
in M,Lson for 

another hour, spending the time talking to another inmate, Hall said. 
Polico had no trouble arrest­
ing Underwood or taking him 
to the rounty jail, Hall said. 
Underwood played at 
Michigan State for three sea­
sons before missing his senior 
year with ,i sprained ankle. 
Tho Viki11gs made Underwood 
tlrnir second first-round cl raft 
pick, and 29th overall in April. 
He signed a five-year, $5.3 
million contract Aug. 1 but 
walked out of training camp 
the next day. Underwood told 
coach Dennis Green he had no 
desire LO play football. 
\1ichigan State football coach ;\lick Saban on Mondav hinted that Underwood's ambivalence about playing football may not !Je new. 
"I think Dimitrius' behavior 
over a little bit of time here has 
been a little bit unusual." 
Saban said. "We tried to help 
the guy last year; I know the 
Dolphins have tried to help him 
now, and I've talked to him on 
sev<wul occasions.... \1ay bP 
now someone can help him ·and he cun do well." 
The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, September 28, 1999 
PGA 

Boston benefits froin Ryder Cup 
BOSTON 
Dlespitti ils illl agu as a white­co 11 a r PV<'llt play(icl in a wealthy tuvvn bcl'orP corporate titans. officials in Brookli1rn and 11tiighboring Boston say the l{ydln-Cup was a pot of gold that will lrnnefit every­thing rrorn local parks lo youth programs. 
As tlw t1i11ls l'ame down at ThP Cou11try Club, and the nation bnskr;d in the glow of Sunclay·s int:recliblr: Li.S. victo­ry, tlrn Bostoll arna was left to ring up ils ,.;han• ol' th1• prolits from a week of' golf' mania. 
"I don't think tlw region has seen an lJVent ol' this magni­tude," gushed Patrick Moscaritolo. president of the Great<1r Boston Convention. and Visitors Bureau. 
Local mPrdmnts havli yet to tally up exact figurns, but Mosca1·itolo 1islimaLnd the Hyd<'r Cup gcnnrat<'d $150 million in spending in tlw area as golf !"ans -many or them spending corporal!• nwnny ­packed local hotels, restau-
For over 80 years, TIAA-CREF has been the leading retirement company on America's Campuses. But experience is just one reason why so many smart investors trust us with their financial future. Here are a few more: 
Superior strength 
With over $250 billion in assets under man­agement, TIAA-CREF is the world's lar~st retirement organization -and among the most solid. It's one of the reasons why 
Morningstar says, "TIAA-CREF sets the standard in the financial services industry." 1 
Solid, long-term performance 
We seek out long-term opportunities that other companies, in pursuit of quick gaius, often miss. Though past performance can't guarantee future results, this patient philos­ophy has proven extremely rewarding. 
ii Ensuring the future for those who shape it.'"' 
1Al,1rniit.!J•l,u VJrilht: Atrn111/i,,,,//11,k, 6130/99. 1S1r111t~rJ ,,'P,w.', Jn.,1wt11c R.1tii1gA,1..1-,.i,. Im: 1,ncl Lipper AnaJylicaf Sc.•rvic:ts. Inc., U.Pf<'r./Jvr,1,,,.,. "A,,..i/yil,,J !M111, 1999 (qu.:artuly}. 3DMJ!AR lttl'., 1991 lkj,~ir,1 C1111ri/,uJi,.1n F.r«/k,ra &1tl11g.•. For mnre complc!e iril'--.:ation, indudlflgcharges and exp:-nses. call J 800 842-1733, i.-:ocl. b.500. for CREF and TIM Real Jo:stalc Aw1um pro~pt•,:tus.:s. ~rul 1hem careJuJly ht-fore you inws1 or kl\tl mllnt.')'-Tl ,U.CR.EJ,• Jndividual and )n,51 itutional Scnrn:cs di~1fil,u1c~ CRt-:F t'crti.111.:ati:s and interests in 1he TIA.'\ Rea.I 
J-:.~1.-1e Ac:counl, 
Hffl 
rants and shops. 
Hydl'I' Cup attendens 30,000 of whom !locked to the cours(• daily -booked roughly 7,000 hotel rooms per night for six 11igl!ts last week, he said. That's just under half of the Grl\ater Boston area's total or 15,000 hotel rooms. 
Revmrnes generated by hotnl, rnoal and merchandise taxr'.s also gave the local ncon­
o my a shot in the arm, Moscaritolo said. And business was brisk for arna workers, from wa.itns working longer hours lo Luxi drivers shuttling visitors around. 
A l{ydor Cuµ corporatn event at Boston's Franklin Park raised mor1i than $) million for tho city, lo be set aside for Parks Department scholar­ships and children's programs. 
Tlrnn there am the ruturc rewards the city will map afttir pmting its best l"acn for­ward. 
"Our visitor industry could bn cashing-chocks from Hyder Cup wull into the next ducade," l11· said, pointing to an audil•nrc that included 

Surprisingly low expenses 
TIAA-CREF's operating costs are among 
the lowest in the insurance and mutual 
fund industries.2 So more ofyour money goes where it should -toward ensuring your future. 
Easy diversification 
We offer a wide variety of expertly managed investment options to help build your assets. We make it simple, too, with 
stock, bond, money market, real estate, and guaranteed options. 
Unrivaled service 
We believe that our service distinguishes us from every other retirement company. 
In the most recent Dalbar survey, TIAA-CREF ranks tops in participation 
satisfaction.3 

Call today to find out how TIAA­CREF can help you build the financial future you want and deserve. 
To find om more -give us a call or visit our website 
I 800 842-2776 www.tiaa-cref.org 
many CliOs and managers of international companies. "Tlrnse am high-end decision mnknrs. They can come back with family mem_bers and friends ... and bring conven­tions and meetings here." 
In Brookline, where the sto­riecl Country Club will receive an estimated $5 million for playing host to the event, tow11 of'lkials had no complaints as they ticked off' a list of irnprovcnrnnts made possible by tho l{yder Cup. 
Under an agreement with Tim Country Club, the town will receive up to $3 million for usu or town land for park­ing and hospitality tents, said Town Administrator Richard Kelliher. When it hosted the 
U.S. Open in 1988, Brookline recl\ived $146,000, he added. 
The money will go into the town's treasury, and roughly $7 S0,000 is earmarked for tlrnmu11iripal Putterham Ml\adows golf course, which adjoins The Country. Club and was shut down to provide parking and tents, Kelliher said. 

CHOOSING THE RIGHT RETIREMENT COMPANY MAiffiS ALL THE DIFFERENCE. 

• I 

Tuesday, September 28, 1999 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
------------~ 

Information Night on Holy Cross Priests and Brothers 
Mass, discussion with Monk Malloy, Fr. Gary Chamberland and Fr. Bill Seetch. Pizza and pop will be served. Everyone's invited: 
Tuesday, September 28, 7:00 pm Badin Hall Chapel 
Campus Bible Study 
Wednesday, September 29, 8:00 pm Wilson Commons 
Graduate Student Bible Study Group 
Wednesday, September 29, 10:00-10:30 pm Walsh Hall Chapel 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
A spirit-filled, student-led power half hour of prayer and music for students of all Christian faith traditions. 
Friday, October 1, 4:30-5:30 p.m. Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune 
Catechist Information Session 
Saturday, October 2, 5:00-7:30 p.m. LaFortune Ballroom 
Pachanga'99 
Sunday-Monday, October 3-4 Fatima Retreat Center 
Africentric Spirituality Freshman Intro Retreat 
Sunday, October 4, 1 :30 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Liturgy of Final Vows Congregation of Holy Cross 
Continuing through November 1 103 Hesburgh Library, 112 Badin Hall 
Freshman Retreat #25 (Nov. 5-6) Sign-Up 
Targeted Dorms: Alumni, Breen-Phillips, Dillon, Howard, Keough, Lyons, McGlinn, Pasquerilla West, and Sorin 

hcg'.}.l··· aIll"\\' 11'.illc1mi'.1111. Pope Jollll P,ml JI invite, a 11{'\I C'l'<lllgdia11i,m or ti n:ncwcJ cffon lo 
.. 

... . pru!i;l(un1 the (,ospd 111 ,uch a way as to tran:-1 L>rtll mmkrn society aml c11lturc. /lhlle1u11wm.,mi,~,f5rm,%t«fr 1.000 year reign oi" Chrisl 111c111ion~J 1n lhc Buol.; or Revelation (20:6) as a p.:riml or canhl~ ·11i1/iJii'iii:',itWhe11 the just shall rnk the curth. This literal i111erpre1a1ion or Revdution has been univcr,all~ 
rqmd1a1cd by the Catholic tradition. but it i:untinucs 10 be held by adherents or the Adventist tradition and 
"lHll~ ChrisLian lr~u.liliuos. 

Father Raynrnml E.' Brown, S.S., a rcnowncJ Catholic scri11turc scholar. sheds some light on how we arc 111 





Countdown to J2K@ND: 

94 days 
112 Badin Hall 631-5242 103 Hesburgh Library 631-7800 email ministry.1@nd.edu .web www.nd.edu/~ministr 
read ,ind understand the Book or Rcvcl,11ion. Brown consickr, Revelation (also c·:!lk<I Apm:a­lypsc) 10 he t·hc 1110,1 uifficult New Tcslamcnl hihltcal book from a reader's vi,wpuilll. H..:rc \ wlla1 he ha, l\J ,.ty. 
"I do rrur Jl11d ii reni/)/y dif.lirnlr Jr,1111 u rcliolor :, 1fr11·1'oi111 /Jcn111.1<' rl,e .l'dwlar 1,,11,ls 10 /1<11'(' r.-wl horikr o{ r/1i.1 sam,· l_l'I'<' -Jc,,risl, t11wrnlr11se.,jill<"cl 1ri//1 ,·inrl i11wgnr suubolit u/ g11od 011d n)/. Thffe/i1re. 1he sdwlur is ui<'rl<'d //(// /(I /(I/.;(' ilil' i11111g,•rr (Ir !he 1\;111rn­I.'}'S<' /i1emllr, lm1 I" rem/ i1 us J,.ws ji1111iliur 1ri1/r 1/1is 1.1'/J<' o( lifl'l'<IIIIH' 11'{)1(/d /um' l'('l{d it 
u-11£'1/ it 1ras 11Tit/cn. En·11 tltougl, H'<.' lf.\·e lite 
term "a1,occ1!_,·1Jtic" Jot!oyjf>r u111i111111s wul cx­

01: 

... · 
,SJ.i::trC/lJ. <t 



t> ;;t +".1:hd:$ l)J-1 'J ·1 ,.t::;i n r.1 ·i Trm '"') 
";J _ ·.;.;,.,,,;,,;,.·..,......, ..,. _,. ...,.. -..-·....,;,.;,.,....,._.,;,;,;,a ....,.........,. 
rrt11·t1gt111/ ,,1·eu1s, the Ji1er<11y genre 1ft1pontly;1s,-i11 11,,. hiMicul style is 110111 /t11111/i11r/"m1 ,fnJ11/l'III/J11• l'11/Y 11·ri1i11g. There(i,re the ,·urr,·111 rewla 1e11d., ro pie/.: 11;1 11 ho11/.: Ii/.:,· R<·r,,/,.rio11 ,111d lo tuk,· lit~n,1/y ,·,irio11.r m11n,•1ical sclw111ar,1 wul pr,•di1·1iom· ,fau ,,,uf m lw11d T/1is 1m,duce.1 ,·11om101n c,111/i1.11t>1t ... 
\\1t• 11eed uut -'illf1J"J.\'t' the tllllhor foul 01· n·a...-gh·en In· God k,wll'fedge of the clixt,1111.flaure. Tht.. •n•Jinv. 11.,<!les.< ,m' all .1pec11/111io11., uhr1111 /,()II' Imig !lie eor//, i.1 lo /11.1·1• .,,. l,,,w lon.~ it ,di/'"' lwf,m· Clirist co111e.1 h<1.-k. or ,dll'n tlie end ,if1/1<• 11·orl,I 11·i// com<'· •Fendt111,,11s h,1.,·,·,l 1111 rlie !Jur1/; ,fl?t'l'el11rw11 ... Nen•nlu'­1,·.,s. 1/u·.1<' .rpe,·11/,rti()IIS lwn• lw11111ed i'''"J'lc,F,r :!.IIUO r,·,,rs, w i11 rlie nmrse o( ti111e mri,m.1· iw/i,·i,l,wls lwre .11111111,•,I 11/' 11·i1/i rite Hook 11/ lfr1·elar11111 in 1/reir /1<111</ ,111,/ ,1111/o(l<JCl'd 1ha1 1/rey 111111· 1111ders1m1d the 1111111erirn/ 11w,.\llgl' awl rlre e11d o(ri111,· is ,II li,111d. T/111.1 /"r,i// rnc/1 i1IIL'J'fJre1,11in11.1· hm·e /)('en 11To11g: 1/1<· ,rorld is still heff. 
Tlie lwsic lll<'S.l'(lg,· o{ 1/1< 0 r\1,11rnlr1,w i., 1111,· 11/1101"' 111 11 rime o/JJt'r.wrnti()IJ. Usi11g ,\'y111/)ll/ic l1111gL1ug,:, 111, )1 ,rs 1/i"r of gn·111 hen,·ts. ,/mg,11is . .flomls, Jire. <'I<'.. ril,• 11111/wr descrilw, liis 1i111e 11s 011<' o( .,·,,,..,,.,, t1//li, ·ri,111 1111,/ s11//<'ri11g ,,mdu, ·,•,/ hr ,·1·i/. r\111idsr rlris. Ire 11·islre.l' 10 rt·u.rsrrrt' the re,11/ers :/1111 God lios ,·, mrro/ o/"/1 rlri11gs. 1/111s Iris i11111ge1·y 0(11 l1e111·e11l.1· /wok in 1,)1ich 111/ 1/1i11gs 11/'l' ,,.,.i11en ,/011·11. or r!f11 ,,eriod u/1i111,· i11 wlric/1 rli,· ,w·,011.111diririo 1/1111 lr11t'fl<'ll ium.-11 .H'I /i111i1. or 0(1111gdl' tlwr con ore1nm1e 1lie/i1rce., 
1~{ t'l'il. or ci1•,:n j!I' ,t.:<Jotl ht:as.1.~ titat CCIII 01'f!fi'Oflll" Jiu• hrul Do you have a faith /1e11sts. He is .111yi11g ill the /J£'/',1·1•l'//li!d w,d .rnjJ'erin~ gmu11 1/wr rlte1· w·,, nor w despuh; fi,r Cod ,.,;11 hrin,1/ all this 111 "'' y O uI V e em/ ,111d be 1·icrorioflX...
question 

The Book ol Rcvclat 1011 dues inJe~d h,1 vc something lo saybeen wanting to 10 us as Catlmlic Christi:111s. II is 1101 the cud or anything, hu1 a du1111.:c lO make a new beginning. II is nol H tim~ of dc•qxiir.ask? Ask us @ but a time or great hope and trust in the goodness of God and the power of God's low in and for ,ill people. We ,dcbrmc
ministry.l@nd.edu or 
the year 2000 as a Year of Juhilee. and we arc challenged 10 lcl this spirit orjoy and hope that springs from 1hr: knowledge
drop it off at 112 Badin 
that God docs triumph permeate our lives and m1r world. 
Gxd Stuff to lb 
Help make the transition to ND smoother for international families 
Hahpirters ,tr<' 11ad<'dfor childrm o/'muthas p"rtic1jJrU111g 111 ESL d11:;.ses at U11i/Jasity Village. A playroom wit/; tuys andgmnl'S allows II comfortabll' seuing ruliarmt to the clrwroottJ mer1. 
WHERE: Community Center at University Village; off Douglas Road and within walking distance. WHEN: 8:45 to 11 :00 am on Tuesdays and Thursdays (3 children) 
I:00 to 2:45pm-on Tuesdays and Thursdays (2 children) 
Contact Harbara Searle m 6.11-.\751 if you can help 
A faith community of Lesbian, Gay and Bisexual Students' and their Friends 
supponed by rhe Office of Campus Minimy 
A cuujldmtial muiro111nmtJin· mttlmts to spe,tk fi'ee(y, question safe~y, find support, 11urture gmwtlri11 11irt11e, C/'t:llt{! Christian COll/11/Ullity t111d deepm thr:ir ftiith. 
Next meeting: Wednesday, September 29th, 8:00 pm 
For mn·ri11g tinu·.>" Jr lot·atioJJ, pl,·t1Jt.' nmt11,1: 7i,mi Sdnuitz: sdnuit.:..8@n,l.,·du or J-.1016 
---------·--­

I, 
MEN'S INTERHALL 
St. Ed's failed conversion gives Sorin 7-6 victory 
St. Ed's was squelched in UH~ tl11:111." By RACHEL BlBER fourth quaruir by tlrn strong With I::{ l lo play. Sicgfricid Sport Writer play doffrnsive play ol' Brnnl n1trinVl'd the ball oi'f' a Fis!rnr 
Smith. With St. Ed's plowing punt, ,111d on l'o unh down, Sorin's duo of Luke Beuerlein 
downfield as the ser.onrls ticked /\guiar·s (fold goal wnnt wide away, Smith intercepted a pass lull f'rom tho 45-yard li,w.
and Greg Carney started right 
where they left off last week. to ensure an Otter victory and Al'lnr a turnover by llw t~reen Carney hauled in a long pass a team record of 2-0. WaVI' with 13 sernnds to play, downfield from Beuerlein un "The ball kind or f1oated out tlw Hamblcrs· attempt al \'icto­tlrnre," Smith said. "And l ran ry was sunk wlrnn Aguiar·s 46­
the opening play of the game. B.eceiver Antoine Tobias, how­up anrl picked il off." yard Jinld goal at!Pmpl 1'1'11 vPry 
ever, put the points on the 
shorl. board this time, allowing Sorin 
Tlw llw11blnrs' offPnsivn woPs
Fisher 0, Seigfried 0 
a I'!' a con tin umH:n from lasl
to squeak by SL Ed's 7-6. The game pitting llrn Grnnn 
woPk·s 1wrl'orma1H·.n. and Limy
After Beuerlein's opening Wave or Fisher against till' 
hav«' VPt to sroro a tou('hdown
bomb to Carney left the Ramblers of SiPgl'ried show­
this S(;ason.

Screaming Otters at first-anc1-cased a defensive battle. goal, Beuerlein connected with Both offenses foiled to scorn, "VVn had a positivn ddnnsivn showing." said Smith, "but our
Tobias for the score. causing the game to end in a 0­
offe11s<! has to step it uµ if' we
"Luke just drilled it in 0 knot. Both tf'arns fell to 1-0-1 between the two defrnders," wanl to win Lhf' f'hampi­
with the tic. 
onship."

said Tobias. "It was a great The defense in Sunday'sthrow." game higl1lighted the play of Carney kicked the extra both teams. Knott 7, Zahm 0 point, which proved to seal the "It was a well !'ought game," Thi' bizarrl' play ol' tlw daywin in the tight game against 
noted Fisher captain Dean ocl·urrr:d in Knott llall's 7-0 the men of St. Ed's, who now Korolis. "Our dnfonse playnd Lila11ki11g or Zahm, 1•vn11ing llw tumbled to a record of 0-2. well." .luggnrnauls rneord lO 1-1. and 
Solid defensive play by 
Yellow Hag:; were a cunstm1t s1~11ding tlw Z11h111bil's lo a Ernesto Lacayo set up St. Ed's sight in the game, preventing record or 0-2. 
only score in the fourth quar­both sides from surmounling a At tlrn start or th1· f'ourth "The kirking tnam didn't vi(·Lory. ter. Lacayo intercepted a pass strong offensive drive. 4uaruir. Zahm st•nt a punL into down iL." said Knott llall cap­Al'tcr constant taunting by intended for Carney, allowing ltamb!ers running buck tlw .Juggernaul's territory and tain Mario ~uarnz. "livnryo1w tlw Zahm contingen!, Suarez quarterback Tim Greene to hit Travis Smith folt tlrn distress of walcht~d as it rollt'd towards assunwd il \\t1ttld b1) dow,wd." was imprnssml by the play and 
Mike Pontius for the six points. the missed opportunities. Lim sidnlirw. "Tht!y \YI)!"!' l(!tling it roll behavior ol' his team. 
Going for the win, the men or "We played well on def'ens1), Assuming the ball would be doacl." said 1.andas. "so I just "WP put in a class act today," St. Ed's failed to convert on a bul penalties kept us from dowrwd, Zahm's sprn:ial tnams pi1~k11d il up ,llld ran down tlw Suarnz said. two-point conversion when the putting it in the end zo,w," uclcd as ii' the play were com­sidnli1ws.'" Landas. who ran the ball in pass to Nick Sciola was broken Smith said. pl1il11, and lhen just walc:hml as Tlw gam,· was scalt)d latn in for a touchdown, saw the jeers up near the end zone. Some last minute o!Tensiv11 Brandon Landas swipnd the tlw fourth quarter wlrnn Kyle of tlrn Zahm crowd as motiva­
"There was confusion on the sparks almost sent the ball and sprinted downliPld l'or TrotWr knock<:d tlw ball from tion for his team, making the sidelines," said Sciola, captain Ramblers off the field in victory a .Juggnrnaut scorn. Zahm quarLPrbuck Dan HurkP victory (lVCn sweeter. of St. Ed's. "It was a nice play celebration. Peter Aguiar Tim Zahmbins stood silenced on a solid did'cnsiv<! hit in the "It mado it fun," Landas by the defensive back." missed two 40-yard field goals. and stunned as Uw Knott !lall backfield. Paul Byan thnn said. "IL was the icing on the Sorin's win was not assured "I hit the kicks solid," Aguiar sidPlinc\ nxplodt)d in 1:cl1•bra­rncov1)rnd llw l'urnblti, handing cak1) wlwn I made the touch­until the last offensive threat by said. "but I should hav1! made ti11n. tlw .JuggPr11auls an Pn10lional down." 


Make your debt worth every penny. From day one, DU's new employees 
are handed critical financial knowledge and execute transactions for 
maior clients. With your talent, you can become upwardly mobile in 
• 
one of Wall Street's fastest growing firms. If this sounds interesting, come to a DU presentation. See how fast your education can pay off. 
Tuesday, September 28, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Tradition losing 
Taylor's score gives Belles tie 
its significance 
By MOLLY McVOY 
Assistant Sporrs Editor 
Excitfimnnt continuns to lw thn word ol' the day for Saint Mary's soccer. 
The Belles finished Monday's game in a 1-1 tie at Betlrnl College, going into double over­time for the second consecutive time. 
The B<%1s are off to their bost start in llw history of the pro­gram with a record of 6-1-1. 
'Tm really excited this year," junior Laura Puulen said. ·•we have a lot of potential and we're using it." 
The Bellus scored early in Monday's game, and seeincd to dominate play on the field. 
But aft.ir a goal in lhn first half by freshman Lynn Taylor. the Bdlns could not add on. 
CLUB SPORTS 
Observer Staff Report 
Thn m1111's water polo team hosted tlrn lirst of' two division tournaments Lhis weeknnd at Holf's Aquatics CHntnr. 
The lrish swept all four games with a combined scon! of 75-:15, improving tlwir record to 7-2. Goalie Brnndan Doherty madH morn limn fiO saves as thr~ dub dnfoated Western Michigan 2 l ­9. Kalamazoo 19-12, Findlay 23­9 and Tol1ido I 0-5. 
Nick MalonP contributed l :{ goals for NotrP Damn over Lim weekend. Matt fvlcNicholas IPd all scornrs wilh 18 goals. 
Tlw Irish compntn in tlw SPc­oml divisional lournauwnt Oct. 1)-10 at Kalamazoo. 
Cycling Club 
Snan l;lynn placed 21Jth in tlw 

Bcllwl came back to scor<i with 
I:i minut«is lef't in tlw ganrn to tio it up. 
This snnt the game inlO ovnr­ti me, wlwrn neitlrnr toam scored, sending tlrn game into double· owrtime. Thn game was called at a ti<i because oJ' tho poor weather in tlm sticond over­time. 
"Wc' re a Iittlc frustrated Dm'.auso we should have boaten them early," f'rnshman Heather Muth said. "We wanwJ to linish Ow gaml' bec1tusf1 1 think w,~ cuuld have won." 
Muth scored lhe winning goal in Saturday's cloubl11-overtinw victory against /\clrian College. Tlw Bollns won that gamP-1-0. 
Once again. tho Bolles domi­nated play, outshooting Adrian 45-9. /\drian's goalkeeper, Sarah Moulik slopped the olfonse with 20 savlls. 
It was not until two minutes rnmainml in tlw final ov11rtirnn that Muth scored, with un assist bv l'aulon. 
Saint Mary's was thrilled with thn victory despito the difficul­ties. 
"II was really exc:iting," Muth said. "We had really good pass­ing and it's just getting to the point where we need to linish." 
Tim 13nlles' next league game is a hornn match ag:iinst Albion Collnge on Oct. G. I!em the Belles ,u·p confidPnt the home !fold advantage will give them the 
<1dge. 
"l rnally appreciall~ tlrn fans who comt\ out to watch us," Pa11l1m said. "ThH support. really motivates us." 
Albion is the MIAA leader in soecm· this season. Saint Mary's tied /\lbion in the team's only meeting last season. 

the fourth: the gamo is tied at
Water polo team sweeps matches 
two. 13ut that really doesn't 
gru1ding Indiana University Mountain Bike Cross Country "/\" lfac<! in 131oomington, Ind. In the "B" race. Jeff Smokn linislwd in tlw top 20. and Jesse I lflnslny linislwd in tlrn top 40, competing against morn than <JO ridflrs. Thc club Lravels to tlrn UniV<!rsity of Illinois this w1iek­nml. 
Field Hockey 
Tim Field I lockcy t<!am took on one of th11 region's lop clubs, tlw Northshorn Club of Chicago. Tlw Irish canw up short. dropping a 3-1 decision. The lone scorer for tlw club was .l.lt Doria. 
Ultimate Frisbee 
TIH' ultinmll' l'rishrni club had a gniat WPl'knnd in both men's and wonwn's play al tlw Purclw' 
0

Si't'lionals. In lllt'll S action. dominant play from tlw longs in 
,! 0 U II 
Pulliam Journalism Fellowships 
Graduating college seniors are invited to apply for the 27th annual Pulliam 
Journalism Fellowships. We will grant 10-week summer internships to 20 journalism or liberal arts majors in the August 1999-June 2000 graduating classes. 
Previous internship or part-time experience at a newspaper is desired, or other demonstration of writing and reporting ability. Those who go through the Fellowships often find new professional opportunities opening up at other newspapers during and after the program. Wmners will receive a $5,500 stipend and will work at either The Indianapolis Star qr The Arizona Republic. Opportunities for online training are available, along with reporting experience at our major metropolitan daily newspapers. 
Early-admissions application postmark deadline is Nov. 15, 1999. By 
Dec. 15, 1999, up to five early-admissions winners will be notified. All other entries must be postmarked by March 1, 2000, and will be consid­ered with remaining early-admissions applicants. Successful applicants 
will be notified on or before April 1, 2000, and will be asked to respond 
immediately with a letter of intent, at which time one-third of the cash 
grant will be mailed to the Fellow. 
To request an application packet, visit our Web site, e-mail us or write: 
Russel] B. Pulliam Pulliam Fellowships Director Indianapolis Newspapers 

W~h ,itc: \\ ww.,1;11'11. ,, ,.n•m/pjl' P.O. Box 145 E-mail: pul!i.u11(<1 , .m1t:11 ,.1.11m Indianapolis, IN 46206-0145 
As I write this, history is coming to a conclusion. lt isn't thn 1md of thr1 world, 
· although to some baseball fans. it might be signaling the approach of the 
Ted Fox

apoca­lypse. No, this is a con­Fox Sports clusion Almost ... to a long chapter of sports history. 
As I write this, the Detroit Tigers play baseball for the last time at the corner of Michigan and Trumbull in Detroit, wherl~ some form of a bai,eball lield has flXisted since 18% and where the cur­rent stadium has stood since 1912. 
I'm writing I.his article as I track tlrn game against the Kansas City lloyals on my computer. !l's the bottom of 
Still 2-2, top of the sixth. 
Tiger Stadium isn't the exception, it's the rule. Everywhere you look now, traditional stadiums are aban­doned f'or new state-of-the-art facilities that are about as lilied with emotion as an AI Gore speech. 
You need not go any farther than our very own Notre Dame campus. That stadium we go into on fall Saturdays isn't Notre Dame Stadium. It's a big mass of concrete that tries to pass itself off as Notre Dame Stadium. 
But we know the difference. 
I'll give the University credit: al least Notre Dame Stadium wasn't abandoned, it was just added onto. You could say the real stadium still lives under­neath all that artil1cial exteri­or and its heart still beats proudly underneath its mask. 
But the stadium as the Four Horsemen, Knute, Rudy, Montana, Brown, Ismail, The Bus and even Lou knew it is gone. 
But hey, that wasn't even a big deal, because everyone elso was doing it, or talking about how they were going to do it, or how they did it. Let's just hope putting domes on stadiums doesn't mount a comeback. 
Karim Garcia just homered in the bottom of the sixth, putting the Tigers up 4-2. 
It doesn't matter if the Tigers hang on for the win and close out on a winning note at home. It wouldn't have mattered if Notre Dame would have lost to Rutgers in the last game at Notre Dame Stadium. 
Tim game is already over, LIH' last out has already been pul in thn scorcbook. Playing it is just a l'ormality. Tiger Stadium has become a byline in Lim long list of disappearing stadiums, arenas and memo­ries. just like Notre Dame Stadium. 
But mayb1\ someone can do mo a favor to make it a little easier. Can you show me wlwrn Ty Cobb slid into third al Urn new Comerica Park or how Touchdown Jesus is the lirst one on the field to signal an Irish score? 
Oh. wait, I guess you can't. 

tlw oponer against Illinois "13" controlled the game as the Irish cruisml to a Ll-2 win. 
The next college opponent was l'urduP, and tlrn Irish continued to roll, winning 13-5. The best play was Cory l'adosky's huge backhand huc:k, a perfect 65­yard lhrow for thn scorn to Rob Cellini. 
SLcvn Ilomkens Ind tlrn Irish in Sunday's finale against Indiana with eight scoring catches as the Irish won 13-4, sweeping all col­lcgn compntition. 
Tho llHLlll dropped thrne maldws to strong adult teams from Indianapolis, Chicago and Bloomington. Tho women lost to Illinois 9-8, but bounct!d back to clnfoat l'urdt1(' 8-7 and Indiana 7-2. Tlw dub trnv(\ls this wenk­Pml to lndian,1 Stal!'. 

matter Lo nw -or anyone in the stands Own~ -todav. 
The outcome of this g~me won't havn any implications for the rnsl of' baseball, unless you're tracking the race for last plac<i in the American League Central. 
Sadly 1\110ugh, I can't say the end of' this game -the last one to lw played al this cav­ernous old ballpark where it still takes more than a pop-up with a strong breew to con­nect for a home run -has any hugii implications for sports as a whole either. 
You wuuld think it would. One ol' Urn oldest parks in baseball -one of the oldest vcnuus in sports, a place whom countl<'ss people, young and old. W!'llt l'rom Apl'il to Octolrnr lo l'orget their prob­lems, at !Past !'or a few hours -will Ill> longer play host to drnams. 
\,Vhy wouldn't this bn a big deal for sports, or cvrn1. at least, for bas<'lmll? 
Because that's not tlrn wav things urn run anymore. · 
Tradition runks right up there with memories on the list of' things that sports doesn't snom to have room for these days. 
1999-2000 Season 
Notre Dame Film, Television, and Theatre Presents 
Hedda Gabler 
by 
Benrik Ibsen 


Directed by Siiri Scott 
Wednesday, October 6  7:30 p.m.  
Thursday, October 7  7:30 p.m.  
Friday, October 8  7:30 p.m.  
Saturday, October 9  7:30 p.m.  
Sunday October I 0  2:30 p.m.  

Playing at Washington Hall 
Reserved seats $9 Seniors $8 All Students $6 
Tic:kets are available a! LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. Mastercard an(. Vi,a orders call 63 1-81 28 
.. 
... 
,,, 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Lewis looks for first win of season against Lyons 
By JASON KROM PINGER 
Sport< Writer 
There will be a lot of intense women's 
interhall football action this Tuesdav 
night, and it will start off at 7 p.m. witl1 
Lyons Hall squaring off against Lewis. 
The 0-2 Chicks are led by team cap­tain Beth Wild.. and an> coming off a couple of tough losses wbich Laughl Llw team valuable lessons. 
"The first game was a mat learning experience, and our defonse really improVfid in the second game," Wild said. · 
The young team has sophomore Rachel Mahonev at the helm and Rosemary Sage ar;choring the offensive line. On defense, junior Katheri1rn 
Harcourt leads the way. 
"Our freshmen are doing well and helping us out a lot," said Wild of her team's newest members. "They will con­tinue to improve as the year goes on." 
Lewis hits its work cut out for it, 1·a('­ing a tough Katie Yanez-led Lions squad on Tuesday. 
Welsh Family vs. Walsh 
The 1-1 Welsh family Hall will tak1• on the Wild Women of Walsh at Stf~pan on Tuesday night in is only the third interhall football game ever for tlw majority of the Welsh players. 
The Whirlwind. coming from a dorm · with 95 freshmen. are captained by Maria Felomeyer, Katie Bak and Stephanie Eden:who also splits tim<' at wide receiver and quarterback for tlw team. 
"We have a lot of youth," said Hak, "but a lot of the freshmen are key play­ers." 
Another first-time player is junior Alison Tullis, who Hak described as 
"awesome" on lhc dcfo1isiv1• li111•. !\lso 
strong on Llw d!'f'n11siv1• line (whil·h dou­
bles as tlrn ollensivn linl•) is Kelly 
Keegan. 
"Our def'PllSfl is playing cxcPptionally 
well," said Bak. 
Besides Eden. Rnk rnnsistnntlv throws to is Sarah Lntt, who has lwlcl strong al receiver for tlw pasl two yPars for Lill' Whirlwind. . 
W1\lsh goes into th1• gallll' agai11sl Walsh having lost ils last g,llll(' against l'asqU(\J'illa Eust. but spi.rils :1n• high. 
Pasquerilla East vs. Pasquerilla West 
Tim Purple WcasPls of l''v\' li111p into their intense rivalry against Llw pm..,·ur­ful PE Pyros. led by i\nna lkrgnrnn and 
Liz Plummer. 
"This is really a r<'building year for us.'' said PW captain and rur11ivur Kori Yell(~ "We'll del'initPly lw up for this game." 
The PW offcnsn is Ind by sopl10111or1' Andy Will al quurwrback. who lwl"1ll'(• this ynar had never played tlw position. Slw will hav(• Y1dll' and talP11t1·d soplw­mor(' Amanda Gallt•n to lirt• al. c;al!f'tl mu.de the swilr.h lo dtd'1mSI' in P\\'s last gume in 19l/8 and cam(' up with a11 interception. 
On defense the l'urplP V\inus1-Js al'l' solid and art> led bv Kalhlr-1•11 \Varin ,tl middln lincbacke1:, who will havt> lo work hard to contain tlw l'vrns· atl1l1,ti1· quarl1,rback. Still. llw U1a1;1 's i11<•xpNi­ence was apparnnt in its first ){alll!'. 
"We had a lol of p11naltiPs lih.P offsidPs and l'alse starts," said Ynl!P. "Th,· youngiir girls had nu idna what th(• game was going to bn lik<!." 
Yell!' added, how(wcr, that llw team appeared much calmer in Llw S('concl game. All records will be loss1·d aside on Tuesday night as these two rivals face o!T. 


COLLEGE OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CARDINAL O'HARA LECTURE SERIES ON BUSINESS E'THICS 
SPENCER NUNLEY 
FORMER VICE-PRESIDENT AND OMBUDSPERSON FOR THE BAYER CORP. 
Corporate Ethic and the Federal Sentencing Guideline 
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 28 AT 71:30 PM JORDAN AUDITORIUM, COLLEGE OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION 
SPONSORED BY: 
.. 
.. 

f\otre Dame Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business 

Tuesday, September 28, 1999 TheObserver . SPORTS page 21 
TENNIS 
Taborga, Talarico take doubles 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame sophomores 
' Javinr Taborga and Aaron Talarico captured their first career doublns titlP with a 8­4 win over Wisconsin's Dustin FriPdrnan and Danny Westerman in final dav action 
of' t hci To m •F a 11 o n Invitational. 
Talarico (B Singlns). Bryan i\ck1!11 (C Singles) and the Irish doublns tnam of Andrew Laflin-/\shok Haju l'inishnd second in their respective draws. while Notre Dame sophomore Adrian llidaka was beaten out for tlw I) sin­gins title in three snts by Indiana Staw's Jacek Wolicki. 
In addition lo the first placP and four runnnr-up finislws, tlw Irish. playing in their first tournanu:nt this snason. won thrne of their l'our third-place nrntclrns in tlrn main tlraw. 
Women take four 
On the women's side, Indiana State! won four ti11es and Notr!i Damn and l{i!'.e 1~ach capturPCI onP. 
Notni Damn sophomon: Lindsey (;rnnn capped a 1rnr­foct snason-opennr al th<' 1.ndian,t Fall Invitational Sunday by winning tlw num­bnr two singl!!S flight a day al'lPr winning thP donblPs titln. Frnshman Katie Cuhna also captur1\d her singles !'light to givl~ Ow Irish thrnn tilfos ovPrall at l.hn thrnc1-day tournanwnt in Bloomington, Ind. 
(;men defoatl~d Ball Stat1· 's GlnHL Trnnq uada. <i-3, 7 -:',, to pick up tlw win. while Cuhna 
dnfPalcd Miami's .land 
BakPI', (i-3, <,-l, in tlw l'ourth 
singl1\s l'!ighl. 
IRISH ........,. TENNIS 
Results of The Tom Fallon Tennis Invitational 
A Singles Main Draw 3rd Place-Smith (ND) d. Erickson (N.Western) 7-6, 6-7, 7-6 7th Place-Taborga (ND) d.Beam (Michigan) 6-0, 6-1 
A Singles Consolation 3rd Place-Overdevest (ND) d.Hol (N.Western) 6-2, 5-7, 6-2 5th Place-Jacobsen (Indiana) d.Laflin (ND) 6-2, 5-7, 6-2 
B Singles Main Draw 1st Place-Tranquada (Ind. St.) d.Talarico (ND) 6-2, 6-3 3rd Place-Miller (ND) d.Pourchet (Rice), 7-5, 4-6, 6-3 
A Doubles Main Draw 
1st Place-Taborga-Talarico (ND) d. 
· Friedman-Westerman (Wis.), 8-4 
B Doubles Main Draw 1st Place-Keating:-Wolicki (Ind.St) d Laflin-Raju (ND), 8-2 
MANDI POWELLffhe Observer 

Not r n I) anw got a third ­placn pnrl'ormancn f'rom senior Kolly Zalinski, who won by d1il'a11ll OVl\l" WcstPrn Mirhiga11·s Larissa Chi11wah. 
Ollwr Irish playPrs to com­1rnl!: in singlns 111atchPs 011 Sunday i11cludnd sophonwrn Nina Vaughn \sixth -!'light Lwol. Kirn (;L1y (l'il'lh -l'lighl. Lhrt•l'). Sarah Scaringi' (fourth -flight l'ourl and Miclwlk 
llamilto11. who l'inishPd with an 1-2 rocord in the round robin singlPs flight number t!ighl. 
Till• Noll'!' lla11w wo1110n's ll:n11is warn will lw back in actioll, SPpl. :rn -Oct. :1 nt tlrn IT/\/World T1•am T1•1111is Naliunal lnll\J'l'.tlllngiat(• championships in l'alo :\Ito. CaliI' 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL 

PE cruises to 26-6 victory over Welsh 
By STEVE DILLENBURGER 
Sports Wri[er 
l'asqtwrilla East proved themselvns worthy of a11y chal­lenge as lliny kno1:knd off Welsh Family, 26-6. 
The Pyros· victory placed them in l'irsl placn al'tnr two games. 
They again started off the game by scoring in thn opening minutes. Tlrny put six points on the board when Elizabeth Plumnrnr f'ound Melissa Gorman for the game's l'irst score. Molly ltoss added the one-point conversion and tho Pyros' nevPr looked back. 
The Whirlwind had a tougher time getting its offense going as the PE clel'onsivn line prnssurecl thl~ Wnlsh quartPrback all 
game. 
The Pyros turned tho game into a rout as the first. hall' wound down. Plumnwr con­nected with Korry Hanley for oue touchdown and Plummer added anotlwr as PE mounted an insurmountable 19-0 lead by the half. 

PE scored another touch­down in tlw s1icond hall'. and its ·defonsP kept UJJ its intnnsity J'or the majorit~' of the sncond hall' as the Pyros cruis!'d. Welsh was ablo to find a gap in the l'E defense law in the s<icc111d ludf' for llrn Lina] touchdown. 
Lyons 0, Pasquerilla West 0 
Defonsivn dominanco was tho tlwmP of till' PW and Lyons ganw. 
Tlw Loams llultled to a scorn­less draw 011 Sunday. Tlw ganw was markml by olfonsivli futility and defonsive pressure. 

"The defense eame up big," Lyons' Katie Yanez said. "But the offense's timing was not straight; too much confusion." 
Tlrn Lyons defense was aided by llw effort of' Bache] Marris and Lisa Thomas who both canw up with interceptions to stop the Purple Weasels. 
Lyons found the same kind of troubles that Pasquerilla West did. PW's defense was helped by Amanda Gallen, a converted wide receiver, who had an interception. 
Walsh 7, Lewis 0 .... 
In yet another defensive bat­tl1! the Wild Women of Walsh got by the Lewis Chicks 7-0. 
Lewis looked like it was going to grab an early lead on its first possession when it found itself on !Im Walsh 2-yard line, but on fourth down the Chick quar­l e rback was stopped on a sneak. This would be the Chicks' best shot at scoring all day. 
The two offenses struggled through the first half without either posing much of a threat. 
Lewis started the second half with the ball and on third-and­lo ng l'rom their 20. But the Walsh defense rose up and forcnd an interception which they returned to the 3-yard lino. Two plays later Kelly Perry took an O[Jtion pitch into tlw ondzo110. Perry also caught tlw orw-point conversion. 
The Walsh defense was able to hold off Lnwis for the rest of the game dnspite many catches by 1311th Wild. The game ended with an interception by Karina Mayorga on a Hail Mary pass. 
Oetfv-e~ilfj Tiu !Jt:k._t Pizza/ ®@G.11J 1Jw@ @ . @@fh l1rn©0(f]ru~HH ..  
Anytime Anytime12 1l 12 you call betweenyou call between 10:30-12:595:30 & 7:00, 9 ~ the price of your the price of your I 2 large 1 large 1 topping. topping pizzas pizza is the time you call.is the tim~ you call. * Plus tax* Plus tax  
r-------------,Lunch Special 1 1 I Small 1 Topping 1 ND store I 2 Cans of Coca-Cola product I Saint Mary's/L_____$5.9~ _____ JNorth Village Mall271-1177 271-PAPA  

Women 
continued from page 24 
the tying scon•. 
With llrn scorn at (1-Ci, 1-'ltrley coach Miko Ilogan sont in tlrn play for thn conversion. Shenhan sL!•ppod baC'.k and threw a pass toward the sidt\­li n e that was pick1\d off l.Jy Cavanaugh rnrnerback Ileather Hoffman. 1 loll'rnan rnturnnd tlrn bull 80 yards l'or two points which gave C11 vanaugh Lhc lnad and thn victorv. 
Farll!Y was tlisappointcd as its record full to I -2. 
Badin 0, McGlinn 0 
Badin anti McG!inn remainod winless Sunday after tlrny played tu a scoreless tie. 
It was a hard defensive battln spearheaded by Badin's. 
Neitlrnr wam's off'ensP has put any points on tlw board yet 
this seasoi1. 
"Our del'ense played really well. and our offense is looking to stnp it up next week," Badin's l'reshman linebacker Katin lkars said. "We have a loss and a tie now we want a win." 
Howard 10, Pangborn 0 
In the lirst game on Sunday, unclefoated Howard improved its record to 2-0 by beating a young Pangborn team 10-0. 
ThP kl!Y player of the game was lloward quartCll'back and dd'ensiv1! back, .Jill Veselik. 
VcsPlik intercepted two balls and throw a touchdown pass to wide receiver Julie Wernick to givn Iloward the first score. 
..
"Wo played really well and our defense looked strong," VHsHlik said al'ter the game. 
lloward will try to remain undofoated when they take on Farley Wed1111sday. 

Tuesday, September 28 
'7:30 p.m. 
Por ticket information contact the Saint Mary's Box Office 
284-4626 

... 



Keenan 
continued from page 24 
Ellsworth. faced with a fourth­down situation, showed excel­lent poise in evading the rush, moving to his left and floating a perfect ball in the direction of Gentine. who made the grab with ease. 
After another Rossi extra­point. Keenan's lead was stretched to 14-0 at the half. 
Frustrated by its tendency to turn the ball over repeatedly. the Stanford offense was unable to make any significant half-time adjustments. 
The Keenan defense, howev­er, took no time off, as it con­tinued to make its neighbors' al't1~rnoon a miserablo on,~. 
Facing fourlh down hall' way through the third period with the ball at midfield, Stanford decided lo go for it. 
When a last-gasp pass attempt fell at the feet of' its intended target, the game, for all intents and purposes, was over. 
Nol content with its 14-0 lead, Keenan continued lo apply pressure, perhaps in an attempt to show the rest of the league that this year's Knights are in fact every bit as good as the two previous editions. both 
. of which captured interhall titles. Captain Herb Giorgio inter­cepted a tipped pass as the 
third q uarler ex pi l'Ptl. as tile 
well," said KePnan playPr and 
Kl!Pnan d(•fonsn l'orc1:d  ;i  sixth  
Stanford lur110\1~r.  
··our dnl'ens(\ plav1\d  vnrv  

coach Dong Min. "I klrnp telling thmn that tlwy hav,~ to l'orcc lurnovors .~nd gnt our offonso back on llrn fidcl, and that's PXactly what thny've boon abln to do. W1•'ll lrn in 1wery game ii' tlwy continuo lo play like this." 
With the fourth quarLnr about lo 1ixpirl' and Stanford scrambling for precious yards, Dong Min picked off a pass for his second interception of' the game. and weaved his way :n yards for a touchdown Lhal put an nxclamation on the tail end ol' u dominating ef'l'orl. 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 

McGwire hits 61st in loss to Cincinnati 
Associated Press 
CINCll'\J\NATI, Ohio 
Dmitri Ynung honrnrnd and knocknd in a earner-high live runs as tlw Cincinnati Heels scor1id night unanswered runs to del'cat the St. Louis Cardinals, 9-7, al Cinergy Fi<'ld. 
The Beds have now won five games in a row. Mark McGwirn hit his Glst home run or the season for the Cardinals, who lost their l1fth in a row. 
Cincinnati is now lied with idle llouston atop the NL Central division at 94-63, c111d also has a 1 1/2 game lead ovor idle New York for Urn wild card spol and will begin a two-game snries in lluuston on Tuosday. 
Stan Belinda (3-l) got the win, tossing one inning, giv­ing uµ no runs and no hits whilo striking out one and walking one. Dennys Heyes recordocl tlw final out for his secnnd save. 
Expos 8, Marlins 4 
Michael Barrnlt's three­run doublP highlighted a six­run eighth inning, as the Montreal Expos rallied for a come-from-behind victory over the Florida Marlins at ProPlaycr stadium. The Expos' first win in five games l'inally provided Montreal skipper Felipe 
Alou his 600th win of his managnrial career. 
Trailing 4-0, Vladimir Cuerrero laced a two-run single in lhe sixth off rookie startor Hnid Cornelius to cut the host's lead in-half. 
The Expos completed their comnback in the eighth. Cornelius retired the first two batters before yielding a single lo l'Pler Bergeron, and was promptly replaced by Vic Darensbourg. 
Darensbourg faced just one batter, walking Jose Vidro, before being pulled in favor oi' llector Almonte. Almonte did not fare any bnlWr as his wild pitch put runnnrs on second and third. The righthander then inten­tionally walked the danger­ous Guerrero to load the bases. 
D'backs 10, Rockies 3 
lirian Anderson worked around nine hits and Bernard Gilkey drove in th.roo runs as the Arizona Diamondbacks beat the Colorado Hockies for their sixth straight win. 
The NL West champion Diamondbacks won for the eighth time in nine games and for the 17th time in their last 21. Arizona is 42-15 since regaining first place on July 24. 
Vinny Castilla hit his 32nd homer f'or the Rockies. 


... 
,. 

page 23

Tuesday, September 28, 1999 The Observer . TODAY 

I,
Intramural Deadlines Thursday, September 30, 1999 
Campus Ultimate 
Grad / Fae / Staff Racquetball
Co-l!ec lnnertube Waler Polo 
RecSports Office 
Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 1-6100 • http://www.nd.edu/Nrecsport 

lnterhall Racquetball 

FOURTH AND INCHES 
~\\, 1'~ rlJN /\NO 
l;:l(c.\i 5MEN1'" Of '"I:. ~M..l.. O~N 
Fox TROT 
MoM, YOO HAVE I WILL You'RE A TWIG.' To LET ME TR'Y NoT ! 1HoSE oTHER KIDS ouT Foll fooTBALL! i .J ARE GoRILLAS! lHffLL 
r MAIM '(ov BEFoRE 'folJ
\ 
CAN EVEN SAY "HELP~' 
,. I 
1 
"T\'r'E. M..\.-IH,l..l.. 01,WC.e 
. "i'l\t.Vl,'( I'::, ONE. Or ,\-t'c. Q.ES, "'Tit-\~ OF 
-r~E. ~eA~ 
MoM, TRuST ME. WHAT I MIGHT LACK IN SHEER Buu,, I MoRE THAN MAKE UP FoR 
IN AGILITY. 

TOM KEELEY 
.-roo B~O WE. l.AN'T PAR.·nc.1P/I.TE ,~ 1-r :::r .SAID :r. 
• -..Jt,:S ~R~~ >,Gov r 1"\\~ 
1'\C.¥--1:.~ oi:J',"( '2, 
BILL AMEND 
ooPS. INC0M1NG.' 
_./ o9

1------=-----£ .
jj 

I LIVE WITH You J'ASOH, FoR tt,WE CRY1N& A LoUD. PolNT. 
I 
JEFF BEAM

A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD 
· oi,A"'('5 PATlNC:i opr, 0 ,-J:. 
ps cH o Lo c; y MAJ ot<.s 
PAF.1' Of OUF. CONTINUING 61:i R.IE'S aN THe f6"!;,T6P.1i-,lG C.6~S. Poot.. WI:: CALL 

,,\r:NANT.A.61!S~ INTGLL..IGe,NT"' t:>oc'5N7" MINO Youf2.. ENDL!!SG cl-lATiE;R A60Ui 'foU~ /NS/6N/F/CANT P~00L~M5., kl-lOW5 WH5P£ 
HAGGAR. HALL 1$. C>ISAt1VAtJ1'A6ES~ IF You iHINI'. WOMff-J LIKE" ro 
fv!E'SS WITI1 youiz HEAP, jMA6/NE A PROfE:5SIOHA.LL'( 7RAIN~t, ON€, 
beam.1 @nd.edu 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS  29 Calla lily or  54 Good butter  
1 1969 Katharine Ross role 10Oldman 15 Put out  cuckoopint 31 Cato's craft 32 ,,_.-·-true!" 34 Never-failing  56 "Splish Splash" singer, 1958 58 Flies home? 59 Bring into being 60 Pointed arch  
1& World record? 11 "Tell Me More" author 18 Forward-looking group  36 Skipping syllables 40 Like some professors 41 Diana, for one  61 Newbie 63Madplea? 64 Goes in front of 65Elysiums 66 Saga of the  
19 Mrs. Alfred  43 Kind of no.  heart  
Hitchcock  44Mushroom  
20 Suffix with leather  ends? 45 Pass twice on  DOWN  
21 Not novel  the track  1 Bravura  
22 Father's hermana 23 Slip cover 25 Kind of column 26 "Rigoletto" trio  47 Rifle part 50 Handwriting on the wall 52 Ends of the earth  2 Sister of Clio 3 Apron, of a sort 4OIdMogul capital s"I don't mean to  
6 Went for  

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 7 Grieg's
dancing 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
46 Two reals, in ss Collection of days of old brains 
48 Old radio tube 57 Kind of brief 

49 Roof worker 59 Bandleader Fields 51 Best Actor of 62 Two or three 1958 chevron wearer: 53 Like a bluff Abbr. 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Roseanne Cash, Bob Dylan, Priscilla Presley, Tommy Chong, Path LaBelle, Ivan CapeJli, Queen Victoria 
Happy Birthday: You'll have plen­ty of energy this year. It will be easy for you tu pick up added knowlt'dge as well as l"ut some of your well­thought-out ideas into play. You have learned from your past misfortunes and are ready to show the world how great you can oc. It's time to let your confidence swell as you reach for the goals you've been working toward for some hme now. Your numbers: 12, 17, 23, 34, 36, 43 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Romantic encounters will develop if you go out with fnends. You'll be in a talkative mood and will charm just about anyone vou meet. It will be a great day to get your point across. 
000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Take a drive around and look at some property that interests you. A residen• tial mov" would be to your advan­tage. Don't allow your emotions to stand in the wav of making a neces­sary change. 00000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your emotional outlook will be better if you are happy with yourself. You need to set some personal goals and go full tilt until you achieve them 00 
CANCER (June 21-Juiy 22): Be careful while traveling. Don't let your emotions interfere with your work. You need to concentrate on important issues. Don'I be tempted to get involved with someone who is married. 0000 
LEO (July 23-Aug, 22): You need to feel satisfied bv the work you do. if you don't, then you must join a drama group, dance classes or any other activity that will allow you the 

Birthday Baby: Your mind knows no bounds. You will innocently plunge into unknown territory. You seek knowledge and will never tire when it comes to learning something new. You're a versatile indil'idual who can achieve a position of importance throughout life. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astrornate.com.) 
EUGENIA LAST 

creative freedom you require. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Major alterations on the home fronl wi II have a lasting effect. You can get ahead professionally if you do a great job and don't complain. Advance­ment will be vours. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): You will experience difficulties if you deal with foreigners Try to involve your­self in activities that will allow you to learn something new. Your interests will lead you to a higher posit-ion. 
000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You may feel sorry for the underdogs, but that doesn't mean you should be giv­ing them everything you've worked so hard to obtain. Don't be sucked in by sob stories. 0000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't let anyone limit your choices. State your case and let things unfold the way thev are supposed to. You won't be happy if your freedom is curtailed. 00 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Your demanding nature will confuse your partner. If you take him or her for granted, you may find yourself living alone again. Think twice before you make any irreversible decisions. 
00000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): The time spent with children will be in­formative. You may not like every­thing they say, but their criticism will be honest and accurate. You'll thank them after you make some alterations. OCO 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Try· ing to talk family into doing some­thing will be like pulling leeth. Don't worry ab()ut it. Call up a friend and go anyway The ones you love will be sorry they missed it. 000 

1oAfter the hour L E E 11 Alamogordo's 111-'-'+:+:+:-t county 12 Like many landscape 
L P 5 temptress 1 R E e Court figures v E T 9 Barely beats 
paintings 13 Theater area 14 Did a taxing 
SOT ~~ 
24 Designing T E O N O O R woman I N N MAKE NG 27Workonone's 
S D S P R E T N Y knight moves? 
Puzzle by A. J, Santora 
28 "You're Sixteen" singer 30 Supergiant in Cygnus 
33 Kind of cycle 
35 Japanese fish delicacy 36 Sci-fi writer Sturgeon 
37 Sifted (through) 
38 Gooselike 
39 Provided that 
42 City taken by Allied forces in 1943 


r 
r 
! 

Incomplete 
Sorin defeated St. Ed's 7-6 when the Otters broke up a two-point conversion al.lempl.
PORTS 
page 18 

page 24 OBSERVER Tuesday, September 28, 1999 

VOLLEYBALL 
Notre Dame splits matches with Wyoming, Colorado St. 
By MATT OLIVA 
Spores Writer 
The Notre Dame volleyball team managed a split in t.his weekend's matches against
.... 
Wyoming and Colorado State. 
The Irish (6-3) went to five games to knock off the Cowgirls 15-8, 6-15, 15-11, 11-15, 15-8. They then traveled to Fort Collins, Colorado where the 17th­ranked Rams defeated the Irish in three games. 
Against Wyoming the Irish totaled 65 kills, led by Christi Girton who had 21 kills in the five game match. Senior captain Mary Leffers contributed another 12 kills and a .400 hitting per­centage while teammates Kristy Kreher and sophomore outsidn hitter Marcie Bomhack each added 11 kills. The Cowgirls kept the match close by adding 72 kills as a team and an overall .261 hit­ting percentage. 
Defensively fur the Irish, t:ap­tains Denise Boylan and Leffers each had seven blocks, while Kreher and Keara Coughlin con­tributed 11 digs for the match. 
"Wyoming played a lot better than we thought they were," said Kreher. "We struggled with defense an<l passing, but were 
ablP lO pick it up." 
Tlw Irish werP not as lucky against Colorado Statn. Tlrn Hams improvnd to a perl'nct 1J-0 by defeating the Irish in straight games 15-9, 15-7, 15-7. 
The Irish started out l'ast, tak­ing a 7-2 lead in the lirst game. Tlw Hams then went on a 13-2 run to tlrn eventual win in the l'irst gaml). They carriod that monwnlum over lo take ganws 2 and :1. 
"'Aft1-ir W<' got out to that. lrntcl, tlrny !'<)ally picked il up and played W!dl." stated Kreher. 
Once again junior outsidP hitter Christi Girton led the Irish with 13 kills and l l digs. Bomhack also addml eight kills and Ldfors tallied snven blocks in thn loss. 
"They played incrediblo," said Kreher. "We made a lot of' hilling errnrs and did not play lik1~ W<' ilave in the past, but wn know WP will play bl~tter." 
Tlw Irish bngin tlrnir Big East conferencP scheduhi this Friday against West Virginia. They tak;1 on Pittsburgh Sunday_ 
"Our team is pretty confident. going into our Big East games,"said Krelrnr. "We had a great practice last night and it really brought up our tPam morale. We are looking forward to playing this wP.ekend." 

================-============================----_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_ -_ -_ -_ -_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_------------­
WOMEN'S INTERHALl 
Cavanaugh defeats Farley, 8-6 
By STEVE KEPPEL Sports Writer 
The game Sunday between Cavanaugh and Farley wasn't decided until a flurry of events in the game's last few minutes gave Cavanaugh an 8-6 victo­
ry. 
"It was a battle of the defenses," said Farley captain Jenn Hoss. 
The first half was filled with defense with each team ·s offense struggling to move the ball consistently. The score at the end of the half was 0-0.
--In tho second half', Cavanaugh's "chaos defense" came out fired up. During the first series Cavanaugh's Meghan Rhatigan picked off a tipped Farley pass and ran it in to give the Chaos a 6-0 lead. It looked like both defens1is were going to continue to hold 
• each other back in their own territory for the rest of the sec­ond half. 
But after a big fourth-down sack, Farley got the ball back with two minutes left in the game about 50 yards from the end zone. After a few short 

option runs. Farley q uartli r­bat:k Meghan Sheehan 11rnd a 40-yard pass that got lrnr tPam down to about llw 2-vard linP. 
With loss than 11 minuln r () m a i n i n g , Ca v a 11 a u g h · s defense sot in for the goal-Jinn stand. Aller a lO minute injury delay, an offsides penalty, and a pass interference p1malty, Farley ended up first-and-goal 
at tlHi 01w \1·i1h :"iO si,co1Hls lf'f'! to go. 
011 sucond clo,,·n. \lrighan Slw1drn11 took 1IJ!' -.;l11,tg1111 s11<1p and lol'l!id a pass i11to tlw mid­din or Llw f'i('ld. Slw1dia11's pass was caught IJy c1•11ln l:rirka Frerdiurg who bullr:d lwr way into tlw nnd zrnrn !'or tl1n Lying 
.,eeWOMEN/page2 I 
MEN'S INTERHALL 

Keenan routs Stanford, earns bragging rights 
By KEVIN BERCHOU Spom \X', iter 
v\''11•11 tli1· Kt•!'Jl/lll K11ights bnal \ll('ir arch-rival St.anl'ord Griffins ~0-0 on Sunday, Uwy wo11 1nud1 more· than Llrni1· I f>lh r1,nsPr·-UliV(' tlllt•J"­
Interhall
hall 1'01rtball gam1·. Th1:y Keenan 20 gar111•n'.rl an 
Stanford O
onlir<i y1•ar's 
worth· ol' 
buildi11g bragging rights. 
In a much-anticipated rn11owal ol' 01w ol' the loagun's grnatt!Sl rivalri!is, it was only K1!Plla11 that 1'.alll!J to play. 
l'lag11Pd by a rash of t111·nov1!rs. tlw Griffins Wl'rn u11abl1· to 111usl<•r a suslain!id olT<:llsivn atLack. 
Snnior dl'i'nnsive back .l{W Klopp pounct:d on a Griffin rumbl!\ in the ganw's opening minutns, and it was all Knights l'rom that point on. .lust l'ivo plays later, tailback Nick Costanzo scampered to 
pay dirt l'rom seven yards out to put Kennan up 6-0. Kicker John Hossi's successful extra­point nwdn the score 7-0. 
"My li,w opened up a huge hol<i," said Costanzo of the scoring play. "Mark Stalka [ at 1·enl1\rl and !right tackle] Mikn Collins gave me room to run all day. The whole line playnd awPsome." 
Tlw sPcond quarter began in tlw same fashion as the first, with Stanford again turning the ball over. This timP it was Keenan corner­back KPvin Carney who inter­cept<) d an errant throw at midl'iolcl. 
Doug Krall applied the heat in tlw backfield, forcing an ill-advisnd toss over the mid­din. 
Latnr in the quarter, the Kn igh ls ex tended their lead as l'reshman quarterback Billy llllsworth got the ball to snnior wideout John Gentine on a 22-yard scoring play. 
see KEENAN/page 22 


,H Go.shen C:olleg..: W Saint Mary's Volleyball vs. Wiflrd Laurier vs. Georgetown Sunday, 2 p.m. 'J:l vs. I lupc Collegl' hiday, 7:05 p.m. Friday, 7:30 p.m. 
SPORTS 
Wednesday, (1:30 p.m.
-· ATA 
vs. Eastern Michigan Vulkyball ( :ross Country vs. Oklahoma Wednesday, 7 p.m. vs. West Virginia Nom: Dame Invitational Saturday, 1 :30 p.m. 
Friday, 8 p.m. Friday, 2: 15 p.m.
GLANCE 


