
The Boss and his band 
La 'Chv-is' Cv-osse. 
Wednesday

¦ Catch the preview of Bruce Springsteen's reunion tour with the E Street Band. 
¦ Check our coverage ofChris Dusseau's lacrosse 
APRIL 28, 

player of the week award.
Scene• 14-15 Sports• 26 

1999 
THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXXII N0.132 WWW. ND.EDU/-OBSERVER 
¦ Srnm-NT SENATE 
Group members discuss Ex Corde, Key Bank charges 


Uy KRISTEN J. FITZPATRICK 
Ni.·,,-_.., Writt·r 
StudPnl body prcsicl1·nt Micah Murphy r1•porl(·d that llw SL11cl1•111 Union is "strnn!-( and pri111Pd for a suc1:essful 11'1"111.'' in his Slal1! nf' lilt' Sllllf Pill l'11ion Acldrc•ss n1 Tm·sday's Student Senate 11wPI ing. 
IIP highlight.Pd soml' of' tlw St'tHtlP's a1T11111plish111P11Ls. inr.luding Llw comput­Prs all(! vidt>o garnPs plact>d at Hf'cknrs. lil'ti11g a $:i charg" for studnnLs wilh a1·rnu11ls al Koy Bank. improving llw usag.-of' l·kx Poinl<.; in llw !"all and tlw mon' usN-rriP1Hllv du I .ar. 
Murphy Pmph.asizPd his and vicn pn•sidPnl i\1ichad l'al11111ho's conlimwd goal to "labor lo PllSlll'I' llml Pach stu­cl,•111 n•ad1Ps his or lll'r full m·adnmic, sodaI and spiritual polP11ti1tl." 
"My door is always opPn," said Murphy. as lw Plll'.011ragNI slud1mts to apprnarh him wilh quPstions, com­lllPnls or prnhl1H11s. 
In otl11•r Sl'!HllP IH'WS: 
• Dan 1'1•alP and Brian Smith prnsm1t­l'd tlw possihlf' topics for tlw !'all 11JIJ<J Board ol' Truslt•Ps ll1!porl to tlw Stud1ml SP1ia(1!. Topic.s inl'.!11d1•d rnvinwing Can•Pr and l'larnnwnt s,~rvic1is. improv­ing slUd1•nl-t1•adwr rc•lalions and Notrn Danw's Callwlil' inmgP in the 21st c1~11­11Iry. 
1'1•alP and Smith prPs<mlPd a dntailed 11111.litw or ninP points that would be rnsParclrnd including tlrn thnology dt!JHtrtnwnt and faculty and student h11atnd debatn on this as a pnssibh1 topic hnrauso of' thn controvnrsy surrounding Ex Corde Ecclnsian, an ,im:yclical that could lutVf\ snriotts implications for tlH1 Cniversily. 
Srnrnlors clelmlml on llw timelincs and appropriateness ol' this topic in light of Univnrsity president Father Edward Malloy's involv1rnwnt in Ex Corde 
Ecclf'shw. 
"W,i want to takn a look at how we've progrnssnd since the last time this topic was lookod at lin 19941," said Pcate. 
Sonw senators. however. said that this is a delicate matter that needs Lo be handlt1d caref'ully. 
"You nm•d to mak(i sum that you don't st,1p on pnople's toes," said Welsh Family I!all senator Candice Marcum. 
Tlw possible topics wnrc approved by a vutti of 21-3. 
• University W(ib master Tom Monaghan address(1d the snnatn on the currnnt condition of the Universitv's Wnh pag1i and the new Wnb site, which will be unveilnd May 14. 
Topics discussed included establishing a portal lhat would allow students to access 1rnws, wriatlwr and sports. as well as tlrn possibility of placing The Observer on-lino and gelling WVIF on­line and in stereo. 
• Tim s(mal,1 unanimously approved a rosolulion requosting that ATM machines be placed in locations 111rnr North and South dining halls. These ATMs would be safe and accessible 24 hours a day, they said. The new ATM locations t:ou[d possibly be decidr,d by 


srh~clion. Tlw snnaln Pxploded into a 
see SENATE / page 7 


Neiman to leave director position 
By CHERYi. ASCI News Wr11cr 
Al Llw Pm! or tlw SP!lll'S· ll~r. prol'(issor Alvcrn Neiman. dirnctor of' the Con! program sincP I ')82, will st,qi dow11 rrom his position. 
NPiman. who rnc1\ivcid his l'h.D. in philosophy from Notri· Da111P in I')78. lias lrnPn involvNI in thn Corn program since ils inception in l<J79. lln taught both tlw Con• coursn and its prndc­cessor, the Collngialc SPminar. bnl'orP irning n1mwcl clirnctor. 
Throughout his I 7 ynars as dirnct.or, Nnima11 said he strivPd to guide studPnts on a journey of discovnry of naturn. society. sell' and (;oc!. tho four main divisinns of' L111! Core cours•~-lie dnl'i1rncl Urn ohjnctives ol' Corn and nmphasiznd the philosophical l'ocus of lhe course in ordor lo foster an 
interdisciplinary approach to scim1c11, rnvdation, imag­ination. lit,iraturn and soci­ology. 
"Corn nx1wsed me lo a vast number of subjects llml I may not have other­
wise had a chance to class. "lle's brilliant, but nxplore." said senior brings us his ideas on a Elizabeth Kimball. "ll gave level that is challenging, nw a strong foundation in and yet in sync with the litMaturn as a sophomore, world as we undnrstand it. while examining books I lie taught us about may nol have read on my !Euripides'] "The Bacchae" own." by using Tim Holling Stones. 
"[In Corn!. I considered Ilis creativity was endless." 

'IGOT A GREAT EDUCA­

TION. THERE ARE MANY THINGS I WOULD NEVER HAVE LEARNED WITHOUT CORE.' 
Ai,VEN NE!Mi\N 
{)JRRCI'Oll OF C()JIH l'ROGRtlM 
isslws that I wouldn't "Profossor Neiman's Core Pncounter in other classes class was my most mean­-important questions lhal ingful academic experience all stud,mts should bo ask­at Notrn Dame," said junior ing themselves," said Tim Campbell. ''I le showed sophomore Sheryl me the pussibilitins of a lib­Ovr,rmycr. eraI arts education. I 
"l'rofossor Neiman taught learned to think about life us who wn are," said Liz and faith in now ways, with Malay, a membor of a group of people who chal­Neiman's 1997-98 Core lenged my preconceptions. 
... Professor Neiman fos­tered my progress toward leading an examined life, and he taught me the value or education in its own right. 
"I learned to study in Lhe hope of leading the best life I can ... I took from his class the conviction that a Catholic liberal arts educa­tion should bo about inspir­ing people to think and lo care. to wonder about God and thn world. I'm skeptical thaL all the research in the world can do that as well as one good teacher. I'm very grateful to have had the opportunity to spend a year with Professor Neiman." 
Faculty members, too, recognize the immense con­tributions Neiman has made to the program. 
"Al has been a consum­mato negotiator of diver­gent faculty interests and contested intellectual ter­rain, keeping alive a course that has been, for many stu­dents, one of the best dur­ing their time at Notre Dame," said Hulhann .Johansen, associate profes­
see NEIMAN I page 4 
PSA will protest FLA membership 
By BRAD UNTIEDT 
News Writer 
Calling for the University to withdraw from the 
Fair Labor Association and end monitoring by 
PricewaterhouseCoopers, the Progressive Student 
Alliance (PSA) will stage a protest against sweul­
sbops on April 29. 
The protest, which wa..; planned to coincide with 
the upcoming Board of Trustee's meeting, will 
highlight several issues important in the swMt­
shop controversy, such as workers' wagos and 
1nanufacturing site locations. 
"The issue is: What ls a fair wag1~," said PSA 
member Aaron Kreider. "We will point. out Lhe dis­
parities of the cost of a sweatshirt bought at the 
bookstore and the pennies and dimes that the 
workers make." 
The PSA is calling for the University to withdraw 
from the FLA, a program with more than 50 mem­
ber universities nationwide working to end the use 
of swcatsh<>ps by manufacturing corporations. 
"The University thinks the FLA is a good option, 
but we are a lot more critical.'' said Kniidt~r. "The 
FlAjust gives industries too much say about what 
will go on." 
.. ',;,1-t· 
see PSA I page 4 



page 2 The Observer• INSIDE Wednesday, April 28,1999 
¦ INSIDE COLUMN 

What vvould Dylan do? 
Dylan. 

The name immediately brings to mind 
three men. There is of course the British 
poet Dylan Thomas, who lived a fast and 
exciting life before his 

Noah Amstadter 
early demise. Then Sports Copy Editor 
there is Bob Dylan, a 
man who has lived his 

life his own way and whose music has 
inspired millions. To this writer, though, 
there is only one Dylan -Dylan McKay, the 
Beverly Hills Bad Buy who inspires me each 
and every Wednesday night. 

On a campus where homosexuality is offi­
cially looked down upon, one man saying 
that he loves another may be looked down 
upon. For Dylan I will take that risk. IL is 
not a sexual love, it is rather a deep and 
profound respect. In Dylan I see the ideal 
man, the man whu I aspire to be. 
Wednesday night after Wednesday night 
throughout the years I have witnessed the 
actions of this figure and applied them to 
my own life. At the young age of 12 I was 
glued to the tube as Dylan struggled with 
the untimely death of his father. At the 
same time I had just lost my great grand­
mother, and -odd as it may seem -I 
found great solace in the Walsh house as 
well. (For those of you who are wondering 
what all this has to do with Notre Dame, go 
stand in south quad about 10 yards south of 
the old bookstore. On the right there's 
Dillon hall, on the left -oh my -is that 
WALSH???) 

Dylan lives the life of an individual. He 
does what he wants, when he wants to. 
Dylan wants to surf, he surfs. He wants to 
date a woman. he goes for it. This is a man 
who wastes no time, he appreciates life and 
doesn't let social pressure (or an existing 
relationship) keep him from getting what he 
wants. 

Dylan is a friend for life. In the early days 
we saw him hang over a cliff to save 
Brandon, bis best friend. Since his return 
from self-imposed European exile he has 
already kept his friend David out ofjail, 
saved the Peach Pit from being bought out 
and gone to Mexico to obtain life-saving 
drugs for Matt's wife. 

Dylan is the good citizen who seeks no 
recognition. Wednesday night he saved a 
pregnant woman from a mugger, only to 
hide from the press. He has silently donated 
money from his trust fund to build a play­
ground for sick children. Even in the early 
days, it was Dylan who convinced Donna 
Martin to remain in college. 

This is a man to follow when the majority 
does something stupid, such as burning 
couches on the quads. Would Dylan have 
partaken in such a ridiculous activity? I 
think not. Dylan is a lover, not a fighter. He 
likely would bave been on the couch with 
Brenda, Kelly or Gina creating a fire of his 
own. 

Men and women of Notre Dame, this is a 
man who lives his life to the fullest. Next 
time you face adversity think about throw­
ing away society's expectations and living 
for the moment. Remember who vour 
friends are and don't let petty differences 
break up a friendship. Be charitable but 
silent. Simply, when life stares you down 
look inside yourself and ask: What would 
Dylan do? 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
¦ TODA.Y's STAFF  
News  Scene  
Christine Kraly  Jennifer Zatorski  
~like Romanchek  Graphics  
Laura Rompf  Mandi Powell  
Sports  Production  
Mike Connolly  Noah Amstadter  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Colleen Gaughen  Michelle Keefe  
M,a Nussbaum  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) i, published Monday rhrough Fri<lay exccpl during ex:un and vac:uion periods. The Obsl"rver is a membtr of the As,ociatcd Press. All reproduction righrs arc: reserved. 




utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

200 Students protest racial political cartoon in campus paper 
¦ UI\UVERS!TV Of' ARIZONA School admits accepting Littleton killer 
TUCSON, Ariz. 
A University of Arizona attorney said Monday that Dylan Klebold -one of the "Trenchcoat Mafia" members who killed 12 classmates and a teacher last Tuesday at a Littleton, Colo. high school -was accepted into the University of Arizona. "l can confirm he was admitted," uni­versity attorney Michael Proctor said Monday afternoon. But Proctor would not say whether Klebold, 17, planned on accepting the offer and attending the university. Citing pri­vacy restrictions. Proctor declined further comment on Klebold's acceptance. "Our policy on all applicants is to treat it as FERPA," he said, referring to the Family and Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974, which prohibits educational institutions from disclosing students' personal information. Klebold and Eric Harris, 18, both Columbine High School students in Littleton, went on a shooting spree last Tuesday before the two reportedly committed suicide. 
¦ UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO Clinton to speak at commencement 
CHICAGO, Ill. 
The President of the United States, William Jefferson Clinton, will address the University of Chicago graduating class of 1999 in Harper Quadrangle at the College com­mencement ceremony on June 12. President Clinton addresses three cnllege graduations annually; a private school, a public school, and a military academy. In addition to his commencement speech at the University of Chicago this year, the President will address the Air Force Academy and Grambling State University, a public University in Louisiana. Focusing on politically oriented subject matter, President Clinton "will speak to the American people about the changing economy and the challenges we face in the post-cold-war era," according to the White House. President Clinton's speech at the U of C is a departure from the University tradition. where graduating students are rarely addressed by non-faculty members or scholars. 
¦ LOCAL WEATHER 

5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime condition, and high temperatures 
H L 
Wednesday ~ 55 49 Thursday es9 39 Friday 65 44
~ 

Saturd~y i)-70 45 
~~ 
Sunday t<~· 70 44 
(};v:.ji··•·-......,......;-'\.._. 

Casper 64 41 Kansas City 67 51 St. Louis 65 56


Q,Q.~p6}Q ~ ~ c:J. 

Dallas 86 61 Macon 80 61 Tacoma 60 37 
Showers T·slarms Ram Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cfoudy Cloudy 

Fl Lauderdale 87 75 Nome 28 17 Tulsa 77 57 
Vi'a Associeled Press GraphicsNel 

¦ NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather" forecast for noon, Wednesday, Apr. 28. 
-.-.,­----.. ,....,.. 

C 1994 AecuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATJONAAY 
Pmsun· ;,!..i
/"..-.

® Cb) CJ CJ. . . EJ . ,..,,. ~~ <lJ'-'
. .
High low Showers A11n T-slotms Fhutlls Snow le• Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
\.'11 Associaled,,,ess 
Atlanta 80 60 Houston 89 64 Philadelphia 65 45 Baltimore 64 45 Indianapolis 62 53 Rochester 57 38 
¦ Ul\lWERS!TV OF WASHINGTON Law school group represents street kids 
SEATTLE, Wash. 

Seattle street kids are legally better off through the efforts ol' Casey Trupin and the five founding members of Street Youth Legal Advocates of Washington. Trupin received an Equal Justice Fellowship from the National Association for Public Interest Law that will begin in September. The fellow­ship will pay Trupin's salary to provide legal representation for street youth for two years. SYLAW was founded in 1996 by faculty, staff and students from the UW School of Law. The group was motivated by a lack of legal assistance avail­able to Seattle street kids, who they define as low-income youths between 12 and 21 living primarily on their own. In Seattle, SYlAW focuses on giving young people an avenue by which to settle issues on their own. The collection of about 20 volunteer law students provides services to several hundred kids per year. Trupin estimated there are betwncn 700 and 2,000 homeless youth in the Seattle area. 
¦ UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA State presses charges against fraternity 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. 

State Attorney Rod Smith announced Monday that he will file criminal charges against University of Florida's 73-year-old Delta Chi chapter and several members and pledges, calling them responsible for the "unlawful debauchery" that occurred during a videotaped Feb. 26 initiation party where two strippers gave lap dances and sex to the young partygoers. Smith, in a six-page state­ment, said that by Thursday, he will file charges of crimi­nal assignation -legally defined as the "making of any appointment or engagement for prostitution or lewdness" -against several fraternity members and pledges identi­fied on the two two-hour videotapns that show· underage drinking, oral sex and blindfolded walks through the Ocala National Forest. He also will charge the fratnrnity with using its on-campus house "for the purpose of lewd­ness or assignation." 
depressed. Meanwhile, Mayo was con­cerned about the stereotype associated with the image. 
"Was this guy serious? This is a very oppressive caricature," Mayo said. "Does this guy know what he just did?'' 
Last weekend was Multicultural Weekend, which is geared at recruit­ing minority students for the universi­ty. The protest planners feared that the administration would come down strong on them if word of the protest reached them, 
The planners proceeded to make several hundred small handbills to be passed uut discreetly to individual stu­dents. They did not want to be found out and possibly stopped by the admin­istration. The handbills said, "D.0. you find this funny? So funny, we for­got to laugh." The handbills also ask1~d people to meet on the steps of Hendricks Chapel at noon on Munday. 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. 
Three days of meticulous planning Jed to a protest by about 200 people on the steps of the Daily Orange Monday. 
Leader Nicki Mayo said plans fur the protest started with the editorial car­toon in last Friday's edition of the 0.0. She said this was not thn first time a cartoon like that was published in the paper. 
"The D.O, has had previous cartoons that we overlooked," she said. "They're stupid; they're ignorant." 
Mayo says the cartoon, which depict­ed SGA president M.J. Idani as a stereotypical "Sambo" figure, was the straw that broke the camel's back. 
"Sambo" was a popular late-1800s caricature that was used to negatively represent black people. The character was always laughing. he never appeared to take anything seriously, Mayo said. The character was also 



!f8CUSe 

UNIVERSITY 
childish and ignorant. He resembled a monkey or gorilla and he wore rag clothing. The size of his lips was exag­gerated and they were bright pink. 
Mayo called Idani shortly after she first saw the cartoon Friday morning, asking if he had seen it. lie hadn't, and she then told him that it was about him and it looked like a "Coon" ur a "Sambo." 
Idani then said in disbelief, "It looks like a what?" The two met later at the SGA office in Schine. Mayo said Idani looked 

page 3
The Observer. CAMPUS NEWS 
Joy, Wesley win $2,500 Black Alumni achievement awards 
Spcci:il w The Observer 
Thi' Hlack Alumni ol' Notrn l>amf' namt'd juniors Jost'ph . loy of Fon•stvillc, l\1d., and M,;ry W<•sll'y of' Nt'w Orlnans, 
I. H.. as this yI' a r's Fra z ili r ThoIll pson Srho lars for out­s landing a r a cl<' mi<· p<' r f'o r ­1111111c1• and s<•rvirP to thti Af'rinu1-Am<·ri<·an and Nolr1• Damn <·omm11niti<•s. 
1111th will rl'<'f'iVP $2.:iOO awards toward tlwir studPnt at'.<·ounts during thPir snnior year. 
From St. Edward's llall. Joy is pursuing degnws in thnolo­gy and music . 
II<\ is dirnr.tor and founder ol' thP Hnjoicn Black Catholic Choir, co-director ol' thn Not.rr, Damn Voic<\S of 1-'aith Gospel Choir and a mnmber of the Ginn Club. 
A commiltne m1•mhnr l'or sevnral retreat programs and a Sankol'a Scholar. h~ has J'I\C:<~ived rncognition l'or his music and snrvicn endeavors. 
Upon graduation, Joy plans to tnach in Southern Catholic schools through Notre Dame's Alliance for Catholic Education program. 
I In also plans to earn a mas­ter's dngrnc in education and eventually t(iaeh ovPrsoas. 
Mary Wosltiy of Pasquerilla East llall is pursuing a double dcgrcn in thnology and com­puter applications. A dnan's list student, OMSA Scholar, McNair Scholar and Sankol'a Dame's first African-Anwri<:a11 Scholar, Wesley has partic­graduate. ipated in numerous service WhilP he passnd away in programs and held leadership 1 IJ91, Thompson's l1)gacy livns positions in the NAACP, Voices on through tlw nearly $70,000 of Faith and lwr dorm. raisnd thus far to support 

Al'ter graduation. Wesl<)Y awards namml in his honor. plans to enter the consulting Contributions c:omn primari­lield and to dnv1.fop a founda­ly l'rom Al'rican-i\mnrican tion that will empower disad­Notre Danw alumni. Cif'ts to van tagnd African-American the Frazier Thompson Fund youths and communities. augm(•nl tlw Univ<irsity's 
Alumnus Frazi1H" Thompson, "Ce n n rations'' f'u ncl -raising a pre-med student, was Notrn campaign. 

The Observer wishes good luck to all the graduating seniors. 
Notre Dame Council on International Business Development 
CONGRATULATES 
Summer 1999 Teachers 
Krakow, Poland 
Drew Olejnik, Scott Little, Magda Krol, Kristina Zurcher 
Tallinn, Estonia 
Steve Brunson, Michelle Simon, Beth Maurel/a, Liz Gallagher 
Parnu, Estonia 
Casey McKean, Tom Ogorzalek 
Cotonou, Benin 
Whitney Wishon, Marina Lamkey, Jamie Garcia 
Guangzhou, China 
Elizabeth Malay, Jim Qualters 
Pudong, China 
Beth Marino. Reina Parker 

Jiang Men, China 
Kevin Carrigan, Christina Dilaura 
Zhanjiang, China 
Patrick PhiUips, Lisa Gadwood 

5 E E T H E M L I V E 


THE TRAGICALLY HIP 
PHANTOM POWER 
NEW ALBUM Our Now


page 4 The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 28, 1999 
the University, Neiman most will be able to better uncover the MMA and one of the first likely will continue to teach at any sweatshop violations." universities to have a task



Neiman PSA
Notre Dame in the Program of Kreider raised the question of force." 
faster and more efficiently. Leaving you more time to stop and smell the ocean breeze, Come in and test the waters. 
PowerBook® G3 prices have been slashed up to $700 with prices starting at $1799.00 Available Now. 
Call now for Apple's special ND student offers ! OIT Solutions Center Room 112 Computing/Math Bldg Phone (219) 631-7477 (1 for sales) 
Apple Education Store: www.apple.com/education/store 
Authorized 
1.800 780.5009 
Value Added Reseller 
ClmApple Computt.'f, ~ru:. All right~ reserved_ Apple, 1hc Appk IO}.'tl, and Puwerlk1ok :m; 1r.1th:nurks nf Applt Cumpull:r, Inc. rq.:h1L'fttl in rht.: LI~~.A. anll orhl.:r t:uumric:-. 'f\.'l'formancc compari-:.:1n.-: 1tt h:it<td oo ll\11im:u-k. in1q4cr fCSl 
PricewaterhouseCoopers' ability The protest also will call for a
continued from page l 
to successfully monitor manufac­tho University to send a delega­turers. tion Central America on a fact­University associate vice presi­"Will PriccwaterhouseCoopers finding mission, visiting factories dent and counsel William Hoye, 
be able to do a good enough and determining further mea­
who also chairs the University job?" he asked. sures for ending sweatshop use.
anti-sweatshop task f'orce, said Hoye responded to the PSA's "The task force should send
there is no reason for Notre call for dismissal of members to Latin America to
Dame to withdraw from the FlA. 
PricewaterhouseCoopers by experience and better under­
"Some 50 universities have 
explaining the advantages of the stand sweatshops," Kreider said. 
independently decided tu join the company's work. "The task force is pretty non­HA ... and while it is not the ''These criticisms arc absolute­diverse and has never seen aperfect solution, it is the best as ly unfounded. sweatshop."
of now," lloye said. 
[PricewaterhouseCoopcrs] han­l loye said this idea is one thatThe University is also explor­d le monitoring for Disney, the University has been working
ing options with Harvard. the Reebok and Liz Cla.iborno, on for some time.
American Apparel 
among others," Hoye said. "They "We have been discussing this
Manufacturing Association are experts who provide the since negotiations with
(A.AMA) and with Follett, Hoye University with experience in PricewaterhouscCoopers began.
added. 
this matter. The task force has been workingThe PSA is also calling for the "Since we hirnd on this idea," Hoye said. "I think
University to monitor sweat­
PricewatcrhouseCoopers, other a delegation will probably go onshops with organizations other schools have been trying to hire a factory tour out of' the country
than corporations like 
them. Notre Dame was the first ... to see and report back to thePricewaterhouseCoopers. 
to hire an outside monitoring task force. I hope we can get this"Who really does these inspec­agency," he added. done."
tions?" asked Kreider. "This is "We were also the first to have The protest will begin at noon
an issue of trust. The workers a code of conduct, a founding on Thursday outside McKenna
will trust people from their com­member of the FLA, the only Mall, the location of the Board ofmunity before people they asso­university in both the FLA and Trustees' meeting.
ciate with the boss. These people 
Happy 21st 


Save the 
Birthday, 
Earth. 
Feeser! 
tiav~ a -W«.«.
Recycle 
you big ~ll! 
Me. 
bov~, ~quirt 

An article in Tuesday's Observer said resident assistant in Keenan. Hall. Kie Stanford. 
pus co-president. Rigney is a l\.e~nan H.alL Presidents Council. 
The Obserl!er regrets the errors. 
Ayacht for the price of a dinghy. 

Now you can get it all without paying for it all. Because the PowerBook® G3 is more affordable than ever (see below). Awesome Pentium-crushing power.* Massive 14.l",screen. Endless adaptibility. All of which can help you-work 
continued from page 1 
sionul specialist. 
"Both as a scholar and a teacher, Al is firmly committed to liberal education, to interdis­ciplinary study and to his mnvil'.­tion that Core should introduce students to an inquiring habit of mind. His treatrn1mt of faculty and students alike has been characterized by fairness. spirit of justir.e and humility," Johansen said. 
Neiman looks back on his years as director of the Core program with the knowledge that "it can be a really empow­ering course" that has the potential to change students for­ever. But the students. said Neiman, were not the only ones who learn from Core. 
"I got a great education... There am many things I would never have learned without Core," said Neiman. "It was a great experience and I wouldn't have traded it for the world." 
According to Neiman, he is stepping down because lhe pro­gram noeds "somnbody with a new vision," and that it is "time !for him! to move on to new challenges." 
Currently in negotiations with 
¦ CORRECTION 
Liberal Studies and philosophy departments. 
Though the Core program is changing directors, rumors about the impending termina­tion of the program in future years are unfounded. Professor Steven Fredman, who will take over as director at lhe end of the current semester, said that the program will not only continue, but will be "getting stronger" with a "tremendous rededica­tion'' to the program's goals. 
He said that Neiman has done a "phenomenal job" with the program and throughout his time as director, he has "kept the program intellectually stimu­lating for both the students and faculty." 
Fredman, who received his Ph.D. degree from Stanford and currently teaches in the English department, said that a new $2 million endowment by 1974 Notre Dame graduate Joseph Morahan will be used to expand the Core program, fund experi­mental classes, bring in writers and artists to add to the interdis­ciplinary approach to Core and to continue to uphold tho endur­ing legacy that professor Neiman has left the College of Arts and Letters. 



Why lug your stuff across campus? 



B~~ESPLUS 
Call 277-5555 for free pick up at your room -on or off-campus_ Boxes Plus • tl1e lower priced shipper• 5622 Grape Road -Wilshire Plaza 
Bring your belongings and this ad to Boxes Plus and receive a 10% discount 

Wt'dnesd.iy, April 28. 1999 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES pagt' 5 
¦ :t >Jn•vs Bf1tHs 
Inspectors find radioactive fruit in Russia 
MOSCOW 
11 ..allh inspPctors in Moscow markl'LS hav11 l'ound radi11ar•.Livn cranlwrrios, apparnntly i111'P1'IPd by ling1iring rndioactive fallout l'rom Ilw Clwrnohvl 11url1•ar disastm·. a 1wws1mpl'I' rq1orl1·d Tu;·sday ..\ total 11!' 1.450 pounds ol' na11lwrri1•s Wt'l'P conliscalrid and d,~sLroytid aftl'I' inspPrt.ors said !lH1y ('.011tairwd highly rndioadiV!' cPsium, ar.cording lo a rqmrl in t.ll!' 1':r1glisli-l1rng11agc Moscow Tinws. Ttw 1·n11t.a111i11a!Pd IJ!'rriPs !011kl'd and t.astnd like normal l'n1it. Many or tlw lwrrics canw l'rom I'krai11P and BPlarns. tlw n•port said. Large parls of Ukrnirll', lklarus and llussia wnrn 11 iI li v rad io a cliv1• fa 11 o u l aft P r Llw ChPrn.ollvl disastPr in I')86, tlw world's worst lllH:if'ar ,ll-ridl'11L 
Father sues school for 
son's suspension 
PIIIL,\DELl'I IIA 
l'lw fHLlwr of an Pighth-grackr susp<'ndnd f'r11rn sf'liool for wriling a story aboul a liclion­al pla,wl rwmnd "Poland .lcwpitcr" nlcd a fod­••ral lawsuit Tlwsday claiming his son·s fme SJH'Prh rights Wl'rn violatPd. Thi• mythical pla11i,L 14-yi•ar-old Brad Ilnrrnan d1iscribnd hnd air that srnl'llm! lik1\ sausagns and pcopln wParing "l'unny hats" who list1\1wd and danced 
LI> bar mitzvah music. thn lawsuit lilod in U.S. llislrii·.t Courl said. Ill' also said llrn food tastl'CI good. Hill lw Pndcd his paper with the words, "I hopt• lo rwvPr gn lo this planet." Tnachers and administratiw at tlw sdrnol did not rf1turn WIPphorw mils Tuns<lay to l'Xplain why Lhe story rnsultPd in th1• boy's susp1~11sion. EarliPr this month. Brad and other students al llrandywinn Ildghts Middhi School in Topton w1wP giVl'n an assignnrnnt in English class to makl' up a story about a planet, name H and dnsrribf' il-; traits that. rnlate to the livci senses Brad, who is not of .J1•wish or Polish origin, said lw got tlw idea l'or the fake planet from his Polish friend and l'rom an MTV program that show1•d a bar mitzvah. 
Arafat considers statehood 
GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip 
Pal1•stinian loader Yasser Aral'at on Tm~sc!ay gavt' his slrongnst indication yet that lw will hnl'(I a pl1ia by President Clinton and poslpon1• a unilateral declaration of statehood and nxtcmd pnacc talks with Israel for a ymu·. Opening llrn Palestinian Central Council's dncisiv1• dnbatc on statd1ood, Aral'al al'lirnrnd his pnopl1i's right lo inde­pm1d1\11CP but said it's wis1ir not to take action now. Thn council's decision could ulfocl tlrn 1111t1:ome in upcoming Israeli elec­tions. Tlw council was cxpcct11cl tu make the final decision on whether lo declare a state nnxt Ttwsday -Lhti original larget date for 11 rwrma111mt p11ac11 agruoment with Israel ­or agrnn to tlrn U.S.-proposnd extonsion 1;1•org1i Brnwer said. 
liit?iZitliitiN;auu 
Dow ~~~~0~= 
JONES •2.47 Nasdaq:
+113.12 
LJ 
2602.41 -49.64 
NYSE 643.27 • 4.44 
s&r soo: Composite 1374.90 
Volume:
10831.71 814,300,000
-1.60 

VOLUME LEADERS 
COHNO: TJCIII \ CN&N91 I CHl:tiAI PUCI 
UJ:Jt OlfLIN:I AOL -•. 31 _, .000(1 115.00 !IU).COK lH'rL BIDS •17.U •l.8"145 U.31 D11.L COMPU1'11:a OaLL -3. ,:i -1,6145 ,J' 19 NJC1to•on CORP MSFT -•. 55 -,.0000 
''.00
AT-lT CORP T +O. ll +O.OU5 53.00 COMPAQ Cot1Pl1T&ll C>Q .. 1. 57 -.0. 3-750 :ill ,l, APH,K CONPU'l'IU, •11. ,.
UPL .-.1115 f5 ';5 
}N-Cl WOlll.DCON IN WCON -,.n -5.,675 17 .,.i: INT&L co~• IN'l'C -l, 39 -l.1175 6l,l5 roH IYITDtl IN l'O!U UDC'h :n. 75 

ASSOCIATED PllESS 
Wi\SIIINGTON 
President Clinton pressed for new cuntrols on guns Tunsday, and tup llcpublicans proposeda hard look at the nation's violence-tinged culture as the two parties oilered dif­fern nt responses to last week's Colorado high school shootings. 
"People's lives are at stake here," Clinton declared at the White House. He urged the GOP­controlled Congress Lo raise from 18 to 21 the legal age for handgun pm;s(ission and to hold neglignnl parents liable when their children use guns to commit crimes. 
By day's end, Senate Majority Leadl'r Trent Lott, R-Miss., had agreed to give Democrats an opportunity for a debate and vote on firearms proposals in about two weeks. Sen. Dick Durbin of Illinois pro­nounced Lott's dncision "a breakthrough" toward pas­sage of legislation. and sev­eral advocates of tougher gun laws said they thought they could prevail. 
Earlier, neither Lott nor !louse Speaker Dennis Hastert mentioned gun con­trol as they called jointly for a "National Conference on Youth and Culture." 
"This conference should examine important issues facing students and society, including video games, drugs in school, Hollywood, prayer in schools, parental involvement and local con­trol of schools," Hastert, R­Iil., said in a written state­ment. 
Neither Hastert nor Lott, who appeared together at a middle school in Virginia to tout recently passed educa­tion legislation. offered details. 
Back inside the Capitol. Lott spoke dismissively of the call for new gun-control legislation as a "typical knee-jerk reaction." The issues raised by last week's shooting at the Columbine High School outside Dnnvor are "bigger than just a gun debate," be said. 
At the same time, he appeared to leave open the door to some type of restrictions, mPntioning 11 measure calling for child safety locks on firearms. 
Several Democrats said they are counting on the horror of the Colorado shooting to fundamentally change the political land­scape. 
"My guess is that the cli­mate has changed," said Sen. Chuck Schumer, D­
N.Y. 
First at the White I louse, and then in the Capitol. the nation's political leaders paused during the day to observe a moment of silence for the victims of Lhe shooting rampage. It was a week ago that 12 students and a teacher dind at the hands of two h1iavily armed stud11nts. who endnd the carnage by turning their weapons on them­selves. 
The brief silnnce since then was an interlude to the political jockeying that broke out Tuesday un an issue that had f'ad11d into the background in rocent years. Hepublicans, heavily funded by the National Hille Association, have tradition­ally opposed gun control legislation. Domocrats have shied away from forcing votes on the question in recent years, in part to spare members of their rank and file from Western and Southern states from having to make politically unpalatable choices. 
At the White llousll, Clinton said his proposals would amount to no more than minor delays and minor hassles for sports­men and legal gun owners. 
¦ CHINA 
Government allays protestors 
AsSOC:IATf:D PllESS 
BEIJING 
China broke two days of silence Tuesday to allay the concerns of a martial arts sect whose members staged the largest protest In China's capital in 10 years. 
Foreign Ministry spokesman Sun Yuxi said concerns by group mem~ · bers that the government was crack­ing down on their practice were groundless. 
On Sunday, 10,000 followers of Falun Gong. surrounded Zhongnanhai, the communist leader­ship compound, to demand freedom to practice without official interfer­ence. 
Premier Zhu Rongji. who beads the State Council, China's Cabinet, intervened, meeting with representa­tives of the group to defuse the situa­tion. 
"The leaders. of the State Council asked the officials of the relevant departments to listen to the opinions of these people;" Sun said at a media brief"mg, 
Sun's comments were the govern­ment's first public remarks on the protest. •The demonstration unnerved Chinese leaders because it came close to the 10th anniversary of the bloody crackdown on the 1989 democracy movement, which occurred just blocks away in Tiananinen Square. 
The sudden appearance of the pro­testers on the doorstop of the leader­ship's posh living and working com­pound was a powerful display of the group's disdpline and organization. 
Founded in 1992 by Li Hongzhi. a martial arts master who now lives in New York, Falun Gong borrows heav­ily from Buddhism and Taoism and styles itself as a form of "qigong." a traditional practice that uses exercise and meditation to improve spiritual and physical health. 
The government is wary of the group's appeal. It has by official count 70 million members, morn than the 58 million members of the Communist Party. But so far the gov­ornmtmt considers Falun Gong to be a type of qigong and not a religious cult. 
"With regard to qigong and body building, governments at various lev­els have never banned this," Foreign Ministry spokesman Sun said. 

----------------------------------, 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 28, 1999 
Philpott: Persecution creates 'dilemma' 

Tomassito•s 
I• T •A• L • I •A• N.·,. c-. A• F • E How to order delivery using your 
After being pulled fro budget thls year. a reor return in the fall, funde under a contingen~yb,µ(J 
''We'vefound ways to: of a mainstay,"' said Micah Murphy. "The s 'Why bother calling ning?"' -. -, . ,__ ­
Murphy said tha.the hopes to,~ a.mount of -"a.ccounta.bilitv."-0n too, groups that run SafeRide·each h 
"We're }Qoking i:ri.tda fJ:io P48~· tracting out brother/sister do __ _ every night of a semester,"1'!!laid! 
By having one,orga.oka.tionw a specific night, Murphy htlp+>,S ~~t ¢', will operate with more conSistency; __ : 
He estimated that SafeRide costs approxh,: mately $50 a night, exdudi.t\g ga,s,, ' _\, ' ' \~ "We hope that b~caus~'we•re 'putfifig tij 
the funds it'll be utilized like it was two• a.rs; ago," said Murphy. _,,. _.. ., ¼'''" >,~:
SafeRide may also,foijow, a190~~ roi,t tem to increase usage;~Utflhy1$ai 
"[We're thinking aboJit} tu:ri~gof the bar scenes and by.some of ment.,coniplex{:ls," ·Murphy;~id,/'. reason for that van !,0Jt1st,,j
for a call.;, >c: ,·. :_>C)":.·­
Got news? Tell us. 1-5323 
FLEX POINfS! 
Hew~ l'\11\l>T'>V e~ "'{l\'\cl{ c.,us\ 
~'\'ru 
1. Call 1-6902 between 6 pm and 1 am 
2. Give us your order 
($5.00 minimum) 
3. We will 'li'lc:~~n your 

By MATTHEW SMITH 
News Writer 
Religious persecution is often overlooked, but is still a primary human rights concern, said Daniel Philpott, in his lecture Tuesday at the Hesburgh Center for lntMnational Studies. 
The lecture, "Sovereignty, Human Rights and the Challenge of Religious Pluralism," high­lighted some of the human rights triumphs and tragedies of the past thou­sand years and paralleled them with current global human rights situations. 
Philpott discussed the important role religion had in establishing states in Europe and the many phases of religious toler­ance and intolerance there. 
To show the long tradi­tion of struggles for human rights, he pointed to forces in Spain during coloniza­tion of the New World that worked to protect the human rights of the natives in the Americas. 
In the 20th century, he said, Germany caused a sharp reversal in what was the standard view on human rights and showed what a state could do to create strong hatred of a particular religious group, namely the Jewish people. 
According to Philpott, in 1948, nearly every country in the world responded to the Holocaust by creating and signing the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Philpott noted that the Jewish people, howev• er, were not the only ones to be persecuted in this century. 
"More Christians have been persecuted in this century than in the previ• ous 19." he said, noting that terrorist organizations and hostile governments are responsible for much of the persecution. He pointed to growing cultural loyalty in Asian and Islamic states as a threat to human rights and cul­tural respect. 
Many Islamic states still oppose women's rights, said Philpott, and religious persecution is still promi­nent against Tibet Buddhists and Christians all over the globe. 
"Unfortunately, much of the world is still on reli­gious fault lines," Philpott said. 
ATTENTION ALL ADVERTISERS!!!!! 
THIS IS OUR LAST ISSUE, EXCEPT FOR OUR MAY 14TH ISSUE!!!!! THE DEADLINE FOR PRINT ADS ISMAY 10TH 
PLEASE HAVE YOUR ADS AND$$$$ IN!!! 
r------------,
I Two orders Mozzerella Bread Sticks 
$5.00 
I .:~eei\'' (Coupon Required) '.f>,~ 
1 Use your Flex Points for Delivery 6 pm -1 am
1 
Tomassito•s • 
I 1 • 
Call The Huddle at 1-6902 
L ____ !!f.ir~~~s.~9-___ -I 
~~-.992-Lite;-C;;-kef'r~u;-t --~ 
I __ with any Large 1411 Pizza 
I -1f~:: (Coupon Required) · f)}._,;: 
· Use your Flex Points for Delivery 6 pm -1 am 
.. • Tomassito•s • 
Call The Huddle at 1-6902 
lie characterized China as a "serious violator" of religious rights, estimating that 40 to 60 million Christian enthusiasts and church leaders have been imprisoned or tortured there. 
"This is a dilemma for American foreign policy," he said. "Religious perse­cution is the major class of' human rights violations today." 
The human rights com• munity, according to Philpott. has lately I.urned a deaf ear to religious per­secution, focusing on other aspects of' human rights. 
In 1998, Congress passed the International Religious Freedom Act, which allows the president to impose broad sanctions on coun­tries found as areas of groat religious persecution. But as Philpott pointed out, too often "sanctions may cause more harm to a country's poor than its powerful." 
According to Philpott, the international community has made much progrnss in the area of human rights over the century. The United Nations, NATO and the European Union have all worked for a universal understanding of what rights should be protected for every citizen. The coop• eration of the U.N. security counsel on matters of human rights has been a sign of progress. lie point­ed to the 1996 U.N. mis· sions influenced by Islam, Pakistan and Bangladesh as a sign of a growing sense of community betwce11 Islamic and Western states. 
Philpott said he hopes that the intl~rnational com­munity will continue to "expand the human rights to which all people are entitled." 

Wednesday, April 28, 1999 The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
~------------.=========::::.::::::::======================:::::::::==;
Senate 
continued from page I 
Lim administration this su1nrn<ff. 
• Murphy mad a lnttor to tlrn Notro l)anw community from tho Campus Lil"n Council concnrning th1• inriclents that occurred fol­lowini-t thn pownr outa1,tp narly .'vlonday morning. ThP lnttnr con­dPrnnml llw ,u·tions tnkm1 by stu­dPnts as inappropriate and clan­l-{n rn us, y11t also praised the r•lforl or campus sncurity. polict! and lirci ollic:ials who altc)nJJ>Lncl Lo r.onlrnl llw disturbance. 
• St11dn11l body s1icrntary I .ur.iana HHali was f!loctod prcsi­dn11 t pro lPmporP af'l11r parlia­mnntary mnmlwr Skphen Sanclwz and Old Collrgo senator Phil DonnN declined nomina­tions. llnali would act as chair of thr s1mat11 if Palumbo would br unablo or unwilling to attrmd a mnding. 
•Two final resolutions wern also unanimously approved in tlw final snnalr. meeting of' the scmestnr. Former student bodv prcsidnnt PntBr Cesaro and l'or·­11wr vicn-prnsident Andn:a Snlak wnrn given the honorary tithis of prnsidllnt and vice-president 1Hrn!ritus rcsrwctivdy. 
/\ resolution was approved to bf' sent to James Lyphout, a.sso­ciaLti vice president for Business Op1•ratio11s of Key Bank. and his staff f'or their cniirt in revoking Lim $:1 charge that was to be charg<'d to all students with accounts in Key Bank. 
Vice president Feigl to step down 
By SARAH MAGNESS 
Nc\vs Writer 
When vice president and d1mn of faculty Dorothy Feig! steps down at the <md of this year, shn will be missed in the adminis­tration, according Lo members of thn Saint Mary's community who have worked with her. 
But they look forward to her evrntual rnturn to tho chemistry !'acuity. 
"I will miss her very much. Sho is a delight to work with, always straightforward and direct," said Teresa Marcy, assistant to tlrn vice president. 
Feigl has been a part of the Saint Mary's community for 33 years. starting her career as a chemistry teacher and serving in her current position for tlrn past 14 years. 
She will spend next year on sabbatical, studying chemistry with the intention of returning to teaching. Fcigl said that her work as an administrator was vr.ry different than her time in the classroom. 
"It's a really different view of the school than teaching," Feig! said. 'The lack of interaction is a real loss." 
Feig! said that she was meant to teach and that teaching offnrs her a level of routine. informali­ty and interaction that she enjoys. 
"I find it extraordinarily satis­fying," Feig) said. 
Friends and associatns said that Feigl will bo a good addi­tion to the clrnmistry dnpart­ment when shn rnturns. 
"She will have to adjust becaus11 it's lrnen 15 years [since she last taught! hut slrn will be an excellent teacher," chair and professor of chemisty and physics Philip Bays said. 
"She's passionate about the kind of education students receive," said vicn prnsident ol' Student /\ffairs Linda Timm . "She's very dedicated to this institution. I look forward to seeing her in a lab coat and goggles." 
The University of Notre Dame Asian Pacific Alumni Board of Directors 
is proud to present the 
1999 Distinguished Student Award 
to graduating senior 
Chak Kei Woo 
for her outstanding contributions to the campus community. 
r~-----------~--~~~~, 
I LARGE PIZZA 
: Cheese & 1 Topping 
I I I 
I 95 
NO LIMIT
I ONl\' 
:,_.: . 
.
I . • . Fvs Ta~ Where Apphcable. ~xciodes 01ne1 oriers. 
L ___ :..;l~Y_::~O:::~!.E~u::_52:9:_ ___!1:,0,J 
Orr: No rise in off-campus life 
S.R. 23 (East of Ironwood)  52750 U.S. 33 N.  
(Serv,ng Notre Dame Area)  (Betwe&n Cleveland & Darden Rd.)  
!Z4-3-"'1 ..........  24-.3--a -a 2:2  
OR  CA.LL.  HfE  MARGO'S  PIZZA  NE'.Altl'.ST  VOVI  
_j  

By NOREEN GILLESPIE Assistant News Editor 
Eager to dispel rumors that the num­ber of Saint Mary's off-campus students rising, director of Residence Life Susie Orr said that the number of students moving off-campus is not a concern. 
"At this point, we only have rough numbers, not ones that can be used for statistical purposes," Orr said. "But based on what I know from the number of room deposits received before room selection, if you look at the numbers, it is the same as it has always been." 
Fourteen percent of the entire student population lived off campus this year, with 6 7 students enrolled as day stu­dents, and 140 as studnnts living off campus. The senior class made up the majority of off-campus students, with 33 percent of the senior class alone con­sidered as off-campus students, com­prised of 14 day students and 102 off­campus students. 
While final numbers for the 1999-00 academic year have ynt to be tabulated, projected numbr.rs will be approximate­ly the same, said Mary Lelick, director of Institutional Research. 
Numbers were not available for the rising senior class, yet projected num­bers show approximately 203 studnnts living off campus, including 57 day stu­dents and 146 off-campus students. These numbnrs will make up approxi­mately 14 percent of the student popu­lation, Lclick said. 
''I've heard that the number of abroad students has increased, and that may be a reason that people think more stu­dents are moving off campus," Orr said. "But we do expnct to see the same per­centage of students living oIT campus." 
Off-campus chairwoman Patti Meagher noted that the percentage of 
students currently living off campus in 
the senior dass is a large mwugh per­
centage to make the issue a concern 
among students. 
"With 33 percent of a class living off­
cam pus, it's a large onough numbc!r 
that we need to be thinking of ways to 
gnt thosn students to stay in contact 
with the campus," Meagher said. 
Attempts to gnt students to stay on 
campus over tlw year, how1wer, such as 
a service project. dinners and evnnts in 
Haggar's off-campus lounge usually 
gathernd a low turnout. 
"It is possible to fen! isolated while liv­
ing off-campus," Meagher said. "But if a 
student is going to move off campus. 
they need to make an effort on their 
part to stay in contact with tlrn campus. 
There is so much more to Saint Mary's 
than just academics. There is a reason 
to come to campus for activities." 
"It's not that I'm tirnd of Saint Mary's, 
but that I'm tired of the daily routine on 
campus," said Julie Semancik, who will 
move to Turtle Crnek /\partments next 
year. "I love it on campus, too, but I am 
ready for a change." 
"Since I will be a sm1ior, I figurnd that 
I miecl to learn to live on my own and 
take care of basic things such as cook­
ing my own meals," Semancik said. 
Emily .Junius, who will rnsicle in a 
house on Washington Street with I 0 
other women, said that a transition 
between colloge and real lil'n was a 
major factor in her decision to !nave 
campus. 
"We wanted that transition because 
aftnr nnxt year. we're there," she said. 
"We need to know how to pay bills and 
live on our own." 
"It will be nice to have a party or cookout, not even necessarily an alcohol event, without having to worry about who we're disturbing," Junius said. "We're looking forward to the freedom and relaxation of not having to live under rules." 
Yet not all students make these deci­sions, Dana North, assistant dirnctor of Residence Life said. 
"Often the same masons that students move off-campus are the same reasons that students stay," North said. "They realize that they will never be able to live in this type of community again, and want to take advantage of that structure." 
Communication with off-campus stu­dents cannot be a priority for Besidence Life due to limited funding. Orr said. 
"We do have the off-campus student lounge, but we use the limited funding that we have for on-campus students. For example, the Stall News posted in each residence hall am not mailed off­campus," which leaves the challenge to the students. 
"I tried to create a phone chain, but it didn't work out all that well," said Meagher. "This isn't a losing battle, we just haven't found the solution y nt." 
The issue of off-campus communica­tion is a priority for the class of '99, with the possibility of' an off-campus class board, an e-mail list and webpagc. monthly newsletters and off-campus liaisons all propos1!d as ways to improve communication during election debates. 
"Half the battle is knowing when and where to be," Meagher said. Yet the ideal situation may bn to give the issun more recognition, she added. 
·-· ·-·---. ----------------------­
page 8 The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 28, 1999 
Women's Resource Center requests an end to probation 

By COLLEEN McCARTHY 
Sainr Mary's Editor 
Officers of the Women's Resource Center (WRC) are currently appealing their sec­ond year of probation, one year after the Center's future was jeopardized after an arti­cle in Right Heason revealed that it displayed pamphlets about abortion. 
Having information about the availability of abortion vio­1a ted a porlion of du Lac, Notre Dame's student hand• book. which prohibits student organizations and their mem­bers from encouraging or par­Lidpating in adivilies contrary to the moral t1iachings of the Catholic Church. 
This left the Center with two options. The Office of Student Activitios said the Ccntcir could either close or accept a two-year probationary period and remove all information on ahortinn. 
"The probation f'or a student organization means that they have gone through the process and we've had concerns that we brought to the group's attPntion and WP will continue to monitor them," said direc­tor of student activities Joe Cassidv. 
WH(: officers, however, said the second year of probation is unnecessarv. 
"Right now we arc appealing the decision or an extra year of probation," said Marnie Bowen, chairperson of the WRC. "We are sending a letter to Patty O'Hara [vice president of Student Affairs] appealing 
_ 
This is the final regular issue of The Observer for the year. We wish -everyont! good luck on finals.  
University Laundry and Tanning 1813 South Bend Ave. Campus Shoppes Shopping Center FREE Dryers all of May!J.f!  
SUMMER JOB.S1N IRELAND CALL: 1-800-833-3~7 WEBSITE: .. www.globalstapf.co,p Accommoooc:fon pu.ov(beo Call as..oa, appl;y tbRougb tbe web ufgbt awa¥l-·_ i)d,,  

the second year of probation. We are hoping to get a response from her by the end of the year so that we can have the issue squared away by fall. The letter basically says that we've been on pro­bation for a year and we've adhered to all the instructions so the second year is unneces­sary." 
The year of probation and the forced removal of all infor­mation on abortion has not hindered the Center, said Bowen. 
"The abortion information was not a big enough part of the Center to hinder the func­tion of the Center. except that now we are focusing more on appealing the decision of a second year of probation," she said. 
The Center objected to tho probation, however, out of principle. 
"Tlw overlying trend of the probation of the Center was that of censorship of informa­tion. That's what was prob­lematic and why I think the faculty got involved," said Bowen. "There was a concern that the censorship could run over into other organizations, 
We're an information center and we feel it is necessary to fight for our right to have information available." 
The Faculty Senate issued three resolutions during the past year regarding the Center, one of which asked for the probation to be rescinded. 
"We felt what happened to the Women's Resource Center was highly problematic in that it brings up problems for an academic community and intellectual discussion to take place," sai.d Ava Preacher, assistant dean of tho College or Arts and Letters. "Whal happened with the Women's Resource Center created a fundamental misunderstand­ing of what it was doing and it created a negative perception of the CentPr." 
Preach11r said she does not think that the students involved with tlrn WHC ever thought they were violating any rules by having informa­tion available on abortion. 
"These students were doing something completely different than what the University thought they were doing," said Preacher. 
The Center provides infor­
mation on numerous women's issues such as eating disorders and breast cancer. However, the publicity that accompanied the discovery of material on abortion in the Center led to a misperception of the Center's function, Bowen explained. 
"I think the average Notre Dame student glanced at the cover of Right Reason or through The Observer, read the headlines and unfortu­nately they may have devel­oped a distorted perception of what we are trying to do," said Bowen. "Hopefully the second year of probation will be rescinded and we can move on from this incident in the fall. We want people to connect our name with a different percep­tion." 
Until then, the Center will continue to try to bring speak­ers to campus to speak on top­ics such as ealing disorders and to provide information on women's issue to the Notre Dame community. 
In about 50 years, you)ll be wearin) these for real ... 
HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY 
CHARLIE VAZAC!!! 
Love, Your Harem 
~ALLJ/
Introducing the edge you"need for college. 
To pay for all the essentials traditional financial aid won't cover, get the AcademicEdge"" Loan. Low interest rates. Easy to apply. Make no payments in school. Flexible repayment after you graduate. 
~f~~€'!2~£fdge· 
Call toll-free 1-877•310-3456 for more information. http://AcademicEdge.ChelaFinancial.com 
©1999 Chela Financial 
Wednesday, April 28, 1999 The Observer• NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Florida·schools to break ground with statewide vouchers 

Ass11,iatcd Pres., 
J'i\LL,\1 li\SSEE, Fla. 
i;Jori<la is about lo Pllact llw nation's first statPwidc• school votwl11•r plan -a pro){rnm that would give tax morwy lo stu­dc•nts at tlw worst public schools to get a privatP or parochial nclucation. 
Larl1 vouch!1r would IJp worth at l!Htsf. $4,000 prr yt!ar toward tuition f'or manv of' Florida's 2 milli1111 public st~lwol studtints. 
c;nv. .Jp!J Bush and IPgislativn lc1ud11rs rnadrnd ugrocmcnt on 
tho plan on Tucsdny, despite fours that iL would cripple pub­lic education and violatn the constitutional separation of church and state. The Legislature is expected to approvr tho plan on Wednesday. 
"I will sign that bill with a smiln on my l'ace," said the Hepublican governor, who cam­paignr cl passionatP!y for the program last fall whilo oppo­nn11ts derided it as a favor to Bush's wealthy supporters. 
Proponnnts said it would give 
..-----------------------­

are you committing to a service program after graduation!?! 
please register for commencement weekend's 
VOLUNTEER SEND OFF 
CEREMONY 
which will be held Saturday, May 15th; 10:00 a.m. at Washington Hall 
SIGN UP BY FR[DAY,APRIL30TH 
ATTIIE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 

public schools an incentive to improve and let students stuck in bad schools gnt a better edu­calion. They said the vouchers wouldn't cost taxpaynrs any­thing rixlra bncauso the money would be taken from the public schools. 
"It's great for kids," said Jeanne i\Ilcn, president of the Contur for Education lloform in nearby, while Milwaukee and Cleveland have citywide plans. 
Florida's progrnrn would bn open to students at any public school that gets a failing grade. 
Undr,r the legislation. public sc:hool students in grades three through 10 would be tested annually and the results would be used to grade all schools. By 
Washington, 'IWILL SIGN THAT BILL WITH A 
a nonprofit group. "You have, first and fore­
most. a law
that · puts p u b I i c schools on notice that 
SMILE ON MY FACE.' 
Gov. J£B BUSI/ F!.Ol//Di\ GOVERNOR 
standards. 
some esti­mates, as 
many as 169 of Florida's :1 . 0 0 0 schools could get a fa i I i n g grade under the state's n e W , tougher 
they have to fish or cut bait, and you have a bill that helps children that are most in need." 
Maine and Vermont have narrow voucher programs to help students in rural areas where there is no public school 

Bush calls the vouchers "opportunity scholarships" and sees them as part of a plan to improve rducation in a state that annually is near the bot­tom of many school rankings. 
Critics said tho program will 
hurt public schools, 
"Moro and morn high school students will be ill-prepared to enter college." said Pat Tnrnillo, presic!Pnt of' tlw Florida Education Association/United, onn of tlrn state's biggc)st teachers unions. It represents 70.000 school employr1os. Tornillo said vouch­er schools would be abln to usn unr.ertified teachers. 
Melinda Anderson, a spokos­woman with the National Education i\ssociation in Washington. said: "It may well help some students, but at the expense of the majority." 
Legal ar.tion is also likely. 
"We sec this as a clear viola­tion of the Constitution," said Joe Conn, spokesman for the Washington-based Americans United for Separation of Church and State. "You cannot forcn taxpayers to pay for privatn religious schools, and that's what this program does." 
In addition to vouchnrs, expanded student tnsting and grading of schools, the pnnding legislation would also toughon teacher training and crack down on truancy. 
"We're going to havn true accountability," Bush said. 
Say goodbye 
to senior 
friends. Use 
Observer 
classifieds. 
LUM NI ND/SMC 
Congratulates 
all the lesbian, gay, bi and transgender graduates of 1999, and their graduating friends and supporters... 
& Welcomes 
you, your family and friends into our strong and growing alumni organization. 
GALA-ND/SMC (Gay and Lesbian Alumni/ae of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College) is an edurntional non-profit membership organization with over 750 members representing • alumni, faculty, staff 21nd families of the University and College. 
Our user-friendly organization has no official affiliation with-and receives no financial support from­the University or College. Our strength and support comes fron·1 our membership and our numbers. 
To receive your welcoming first-year membership packet and for more information about our organization visit our web site at: http://galandsmc.org/ e-mail us at: galandsmc@aol.com or write us at: GALA-ND/SMC, 2217 W. Eastwood Avenue, Chicago IL 60625 


page 10 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, April 28, 1999 
¦ Kosovo
Missouri executes 61-year-old prisoner Pentagon calls up reserves 
Associated Press 
POTOSI. Mo. 
A 61-year-old man who killed his estranged wife was execut­ed by injection early Wednesday. lhe oldest Missouri inmate put to death since capi­tal punishment was reinstated in 1977. 
Halph Davis was convicted of killing his wife, Susan, in part on the strength of DNA evi­dence. The body of the 35-year­old woman was never found. 
¦ IREtAND 
Ch 
s· · · ···· 
1nead()'.)·L.-:L; •~:•, 
AW
' ... , -,Jf<~~ .. £\~• -.··..,i~..~:;•••.•..:..· "·-·..c:::·;,;:~::;::c:::'.-'... . : .. ,., {,·::. :!··-~,.,. :'L: 
_Ali_wc,_c_i.__ _________..,.,.............. ,~,b·gf~ts;!x;~Jr;;i, ..•..hii.JY
r_ed~J'-->r_es. 
His last words. in a written statement. were to his son and daughter-in-law: "My body is gone but my spirit is with you. I'm just going to slMp. Love you. Dad." 
Mrs. Davis disappeared in 1986 after leaving her job at Westinghouse Electric Corp. in Columbia. Three weeks earlier, she had filed assault charges against her husband. She claimed he was abusive and had once held a gun to hPr head. 
i;;ifil gFJiilliir'.'7~.ifl~W•cf 
DUBLIN 
Sinead O'Connor, who once ripped up a picture oi the pope on television, could b.e ih 
trouble with the Vatican again. 
The singer was ordained as the first woman priest in the Latin Tridentine Church, a Roman Catholic · splinter group, by BishopMicha.clCox, who pioneered a phone-in confession service in [rela..nd •. 
"Anyone who knows me knows that what I have done makes perfect sense fof me. I adore God and believe very much if.l. the power ofprayer," O'Connor said Mondayin a 
alre~d~····ce.1ehfaied ·~ass.0f6~r,
tirnes,-butiwill study 1Ali.th Cpxf:ftlr six week's before!~tarti11g. ·.·her priestly car~er•as Mother< . Bern~tj.ett,f Mf1.r¥, 1+;;r1~e ~he" 
also plans to use in her musk 
career. 
O'Connor said het views 
have changed since her J992 
appeflr1u1cJL ,on ..NBC's 
''Saturday Night Live,". when 
she tore up apictufe of Pope ·.·.··JohnPauHL · · 
"Ldo ,apolqgize forJhaL I 
am ~orry l di9 that. H"YaS a 
disrespectfulthiµg toqf}," she 
said. "!have never even niet 
the pope. I am'SUte<he. 
is a 
lovely.roan.'' 
• 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The Pentagon announced Tuesday it will call 33,102 reservists to active military duty, bringing the Kosovo con­flict close to communities from coast to coast. 
The call-up will begin imme­diatcly with 2,116 members of the Air Force Heserve and Air National Guard to assist in aeri­al refueling of NATO war­planes. 
The first reservists to get the call are from units based in Alabama, Arizona, California, Indiana. Kansas, Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin. They will serve on active duty for as long as six months. 
Thousands more reservists will be pulled from their civil­ian jobs in the weeks ahead as NATO expands its air cam­paign, Defense Secretary William Cohen said in announc­ing that his mobili7ation would affect reservists in all branches of the military. 
The nonvoluntary call-up is the first since NATO began its air campaign to win autonomy for Kosovo on March 24 and the largest since 240,000 served in the buildup to the 1991 Gulf War. /\bout 1,000 reservists have been serving as volunteers for NATO, but Cohen's call-up means they will be relieved. 
"We must go beyond the lirn­its of volunteerism," Air Force Maj. Gen. Michael Kudlacz told reporters. 
The Pentagon did not have a precise breakdown of the 33,102 reservists to be called, by service. But it said about 25,000 will be Air Force, 6,100 Army, and 1,000 each from the Marine Corps and Navy. 
Labor Secretary Alexis Herman publidy reminded employers that reservists' civil­ian jobs are protected by law, and Sen. John Kerry, U-Mass., said he would introduce legisla­tion that would offer financial assistance to reservists who are small business owners and are included in the call-up for Kosovo duty. 
In a related development, Air Force MaJ. Gen. Susan Pamerleau said the Air Force has been authorized to prevent activ.e duty members in certain job specialties from leaving the service during the Kosovo con­flict. She said it had not been determined yet how many departures would be stopped or in which jobs. but it is tho first time this "stop loss" authority has been used since !.he Gulf War, she sairl. 
.on the diplomatic f'ront, · Deputy Secretary of State StrobP Talbott concludod talks in :vtoscow with Foreign Minister Igor Ivanov and Viktor Chernomyrdin, the Hussian mediator !'or thP Balkans. 
"On behalf of the United States, he laid out very clearly the objectives NATO has set forth in its communiques and the importance we attach to achieving those objectives," State Department spokesman James Rubin said. 
H.ussia strongly objects to NATO's bombing campaign and to the idea of a NATO-led peacekeeping force being sent to Kosovo in the event of' a set­tlement to ensure safe return of refugees. 
"The Russians did not indi­cate any major changes in their position," Rubin said. 
In remarks at a Pentagon news conference, Cohen indi­catcd little interest in the idea of putting a peacekeeping force under the command of the United Nations -a formulation that might be acceptable to Yugoslavia but at any rate is on hold as long as NATO keeps up its bombing campaign. 
"There must be an interna­tional peacekeeping force that is NATO-led and. at thn core. NATO must be involved in its management." Cohen said. Hn seemed to leavn room for maneuver, however, by adding latnr that "we bnlinvc it should be led by NATO." 
White Ilouse µrnss secretary Joe, Lockhart used a similar approach, saying the force "would be one with NATO at its core." Yugoslavia has insisted tlrn!. it not include anv NATO countries. · 
i\dministral.ion oflicials wern encouraged that reprnsenta­tivPs of tile International Committcu ol'tlw Hud Cross had a second, more substantive visit with the thrnc U.S. soldiers being hold as prisoners of' war in Belgrade. The thrcP w<!rn examirrnd by a doctor but tlw results were not made public. 
espite discourag<!ITI<!nt l'rom the White Hous<', a delpgation of' U.S. religious leaders IPd by Jess<' Jackson said it will travel to Yugoslavia Wednesday to m<1el with thret> captive Americans and try to scrum tlwir freedom. 
Join us m a prayer of lament for the 


rain location: I<.ecnan/Stanford Chapel 


Tinw to lwgin tlw mHling. 
It's h11m1 going on l'or wPnks now ­1moplP asking m<'. "What am you doing for your last column as a studnnt. Mary llPlh'!" Which, I must say, has lrnnn a W1!lc·onw rl!SpiW from l.h·P 41wslions I usually gPl ("i\ri1 you drunk'?" or "Would you mind not ynlling 'SUCKS!!' whPllPVPr ;u1yrnw 11w11li;,ns Shania Twain"" or "li°asn't that rnstraining ord11r gonn into l'ffl'l'l yPt?") 
Mary Beth Ellis 
So l'VI' hPPII liddling with a numlwr of' l'ormals. It's not pasy to not surk, you know. Many, wlwn writing piPcPs such as llinsl', will l'ollow tlw following clichi\­potlwlml routns: 
"1.1:Al!N 1:HOM MY WlZENtm EXPEHI­FNCI•:. l·'U'l'UHF 1:111,:SIIMEN." 
I rol'ust• to attach my nanw to t.lw l"ol­lowing: "lllah blah blah Catholic Dis,wy World hlah blah takc-lots of' pkt urns blah Tlw 'harkor. Ila ha!" 
l-'c1rgnt it. (;iv11 tlwm a Grartiti llanrc and a I JAl!T hook and let tlw liLLle chumps hunglP through it by tlwm­sPlvPs, !ht• way I had lo. 
";\1.1,0W MF TO ()UOTli SOM!·: Pl•:lrl'I­Nl•:NT SON(; I.YHICS FOH YOU." 
This is orw of my f'avorilns: "I can't think or anything to say, so I'm going lo dt>1"1•r to fowPI." Tossing in Jimmy Buff1\ll or Frnnk Sinatra, or !'or Cod's sakt•, ( ;arth Brooks. would hav,i bPen all v<1ry well and good l'or mn. I'd havn had a nicP sobhy l.inw or it rntyping the lyries ol' "Tlw Dancn;" tlrn rest of you would haVP spPnt 14 italicizml lines bning una­musnd and frankly. would hav11 skippncl dirnrlly to Llw nnxl paragraph ii' you had any snll'-rcspect at all. I could've nven cashed in my senior chips on, say, Billy Idol. as long as I wept that "Mony Mony" pnrtainnd to graduation in some way: 
lley! Well don 'l stop now, hey, come ()/1 Mony! 
Well. come on, Mony! 
I say yeah. YEA/I. yeah. Yh'li/1. yeah, }'/:~1// yeah, YHi\11, yeah, YEA!/, yeah. YEA/I Well. you make me feel! Many, Mrmy ... 
Truly, my follow graduates, words to live hv. 
"%&*# TIIEE, NOTHE DAME." 
Thorn was onco an ObsnrvPr columnist -bnf'ore your Limn. littl11 ones -by the namn of' Matt i\pple. who was a gradu­at11 stuc!Pnt and, Lo b1\ fair, an all-around Wt)irdo. I!is final column, apparnntly Pdit(\d by the Unabombnr, ran along thn lin1is of. "I hato Notre Damn. I hate it so much. I can't believe it. I think I'm going to vomit all over my word processor BIGIIT NOW. That's how much I hate it." llo fai11\d. howevnr, to explain why lrn rnmainPd for two full vcars in this awful, awful placn. It was sincornly uplirting. 
\falt Appln, by the way, here on a Larry Flynt Scholar /\ward, was at one Lim<1 reprimanded by tlw University for providing links Lo pornographic sites on his TA Web site. Yes inclcedy, losing Malt was a ma! blow to tho University. 
"LOOK AT WIIAT ONE OF MY IIIGII SCIIOOL FHIENDS FOHWAHDED TO MY E-MAIi. ACCOUNT." 
Thorn will be no somber fables or snif­11ing announcnnHrnts that everything I nend1icl to know. I learnncl in kinder­garten. (Which, by the way, I most cer­tainly did not. My kindnrgarten teachor 111w11r showed me how, for example, to magically transform a live-page paper into a s1wnn-pago one by changing the 
l'ont.) 
I rrnvnr prnt,rnded to dish out Chicken Soup for lho Soul. This space shall instl'ad remain a sanctuary of' Natty Light for the Bloodstream. 

"IIEHE IS MY LIFE STOHY. PLEASE NOTE HOW PONDEHOUSLY l\'ll'OH­TANT AND INTERESTING I AM, AS WELL AS TIIE FACT THAT TIIE UNI­VEHSITY OF NOTHE DAME AND SAINT MAHY'S COLLEGE WILL MOST LIKELY CEASE TO EXIST DUE TO THE UNBEAHABLY LARGE, GAPING IIOLE MY DEPAHTURE WILL LEAVE." 
As a srmior in high school, I sat on Lim floor of my hostess' dorm room in McCandless llall reading an Observer column by Josh Ozersky. And I thought to mysdf', "I will come to this placr, and I will have a column of my own, and when l graduate, I wi.11 write a column in which I will mention thal as a senior in high school. I sat on the floor ol' my host­ess' dorm room in McCandless Hall reading an Observer column by somnone namnd Josh Ozersky, thinking to mysolf 
This is not seemly. 
For as we all know, on May 15, 1999, the following will happen: Due to the fact that I am graduating f'rom college, the earth will stop rotating. 
Somothing LP!ls nw that conw rwxt August, bass will pump from tho nrnn's dorms on Friday nights, lecturP notPs will bn taknn by half-awakn hands and Urn band will step off a half' hour heforn kickoff-all or it. and all thn semnstPrs to f'ollow, continuing quite nicely without my prcsenc1~. The world is not nnding. Just mino is. 
Mary Heth h'llis. who promised /.omen­tion SMC lleligio11s Studies professor Joe lncandela in al leas/ one column this year. is qraduatingfrom Saini. Mary's College with degrees in Hnglish writing and political science. She loues you. she will miss you and shti u•ill welcome any parting gifts in the form rif' lar,qe 11wrze­tary donations. lier column trill crmfin­ue next year from her newspaper job in Miami, Okla., a tiny Lown that possesses a different charm from South 1/efld in the sense I/wt it actually has some.· 
The views expressr•d in this column are those uf the author and not 11eces­sarily those ofTlw Oh:;eruer. 
GARRY TRUDEAU
¦ DOONESBURY 
WA5 THAT GIRL­SIIE-!iHOT. HE-NOTIC1:0H~ 
NOUWN'TYOU NAH, I:ti 
U!e ME-TON 7Jle HCW'f?He CH!:CKIN'3HIM IUOt{J,,, 7HAT.!!5 
tove m 5t;l; A unze 
7WR ReAUY Z/P­M&eT ()(fT IN CIA~, IMF'f?e.55/V&,,, 
meN05e owIVR. 
Pl;R.'9 G/RlFRIENO? HeR.r AN/? .%t?M, 7Hef 
'CllJ? ?HAT.~ 
I JUGTH()(Jl:Z;l? UP. I l/ 
/ ,-oo'L 
¦ QuoTE OF THE DAY 
, There is no truth; there are only points of view.' 
-Edith Sitwell 

VIEWPOINT 
page 12 -------------------------OB~ERVER Wednesday, April 28, 1999 
¦ EDITORIAL 
Kosovo 
U.S. In Deep and Must Commit To Winning 
In-the current conflict in Kosovo, the find itself in a quagmire remin\sr,ent of 
U.S. and NATO must define clear objec-Somalia, Bosnia and even Vietnam. tives and do whatevflr is necessarv to If NATO does not quickJj, emerge victo­accomplish them as quickly as possible. rious, the most powerful militarv a!Jiam;e 
The current pattern of slow escalation in Lhe world Wm have been stymied hy 
and n ''blMdless'' bomb­ing campaign with little diplomatic progress is , 
d . I' ., h THE U.S. GOVERNMENT
orng itt e to protect t ti hundreds ofthousands of MUST DO WHATIT .CAN ethnic Albanians who
·b d TO HELP THE KOSOVAR
havP een riven from lhoir homes in a system• REFUGEES, BlIT IT MUST atic campaign of ..ethnic ALSO SHOW H '1" 
cleansing." The precision · T Ai Tl:IIS wilh which Serb forces EGREGIOUS AUUSE OF have persecuted their HUMAN RIGHTS WIU NOT 
own citizens is frighten­ing, and judging from STAND. IF THIS REQlJJRF.S 
talcs of refugees, the sit• THE USE OF GROUND uation is not improving. 
The U.S. government TROOPS;SO BEIT.' must do what it can to help the Kosovar refugees, but it must also showthatthis egregious-­abuse of human rights willnot st~nd. If d.eca 
this requires the use of grqund troops, s& . a. ele~r he 1t. · · • > · ··•· ·-• ---· ·· < W.he At present,however,J\IATOla.ci{sa.-ii vened · clear definition. of victQry. anq thr CUITtlllt. • d~bate/'busituation f:lchoes of other local conflicts· · ;,,jita~ttlts ~ 
into which ow natio!1J1~.war.led;,.'\'ithov.tf1;. ~~rq~9~f~s;i<t<;t1,mt.attj:qg ~it~SE\'Y\.cl -/It_·_ 
· a concrete N~TO ob1ect1v,, a,ncltl1e . 
. ij~y rn . . it them-
resolve to reach it, the US'. could easily ,tJ&, •+, , · 
¦ LETTER To THE EDITOR 
Task Force on Sweatshops Upholds Highest Standards 
Ovr,r the course of this past year, the issue of sweatshop labor has permeated local. national and international news. At the collegiate level, specifically, this has become a hot topic of conversation. The question isn't whether or not colleges and universities should do business with com­panies who have employed sweatshop tac­tics at their manufacturing sites but how to monitor and set standards for those com­panies we currently or might deal with in the future. As members of the University's Task force on Anti-Sweatshop Initiatives, we realize we can't end the practice of exploitative employment. We can, however, make recommendations to rather Malloy as to how Notre Dame can identify which of its licensees are abusing its employees and what type of standards the University must demand of its business partners. 
There are a number of things that the task force is charged to investigate and dis­cuss. Namely, we will be looking at the concept ol' a "living wage," the merits nf' mandating public disclosure or manufac­turing sites and the collective bargaining and l'reeclom of association status of employees of these corporations. All of these topics take a great deal of research and prayer before making any decisions. W,i are currently slated to meet biweekly to discuss these issues while doing our ow1i fact-finding on the side. 
Recently, some members or the Notre Dame community have voiced some con­cerns regarding the composition and direc­tion of the task force. One of the demands of these students is to withdraw from the newly formed Fair Labor Association (FLA). Albeit the FLA is not a perfect solution to the problem at hand, but it is the best of what is available at this time. Furthermore, the University's initiativeis do not end with the FLA. but serve as a base upou which to add further demands. 
A second suggestion to the task force is to use organizations other than Pricewaterhouse Coopers to conduct the monitoring. In listening to the lead partner from PWC two weeks ago explaining the process the company uses to conduct these surprise visits, the training involved and the speed at which it can respond to moni­toring requests, it would be an understate­ment to say that I was impressed. Other schools have heard of PWC's past perfor­mance record and arc now trying to jump aboard and form a coalition with other schools to help share some of the costs associated with sending these teams out. 
Notre Dame is the leader in the anti­sweatshop campaign. We were the first school to adopt a code of conduct for our licensees (even before the Kathie Lee Gifford incident), the first to hire an inde­pendent firm to come up with and initiate a monitoring procedure, and we are continu­ally looking at new ways of attacking this perplexing issue. In an attempt to continue to learn more about the current situation and what Notre Dame as a leading institu­lion can do to make things bettor, wo are in the process of inviting experts to come and speak with us to share their insight. In the coming weeks, we will start to formulate a suggestion for Notre Dame's position on a numbr.r of these issues, and as the under­graduate representative on the task force, I want to make myself available to voice the concerns of the students (on this issue or any other). Please feel free lo drop by 203 LaFortunA, e-mail me at murphy.160@nd.edu or call me at 1-4555. 
In Notre Dame, 
Mkah Murphy Student Body Prcsidenr April 27, 1999 
··. tis. the lJµiteqBtates ...· 
__ .--. __._ieshavet~.ti'tnti~d1 \~;, · 
the smnll-tirne dictator 
of a minor, broken 
state. This will. onlv 
encourage similarJ 
behavior in the future. 
Hussein, Gadhafi and 
all the other despots 
whostand against the 
U.S, are watching 
Presidont Clinton's ru.)tions. in Kosovo; and they must he smiling at 
his apparent confusion. 
Yugoslav president Slobodan Milosevic does not threaten America:'sriationa.l security, butrnenlike p~ anilt~e terrorists tlfoysponsor wm pose a,grt:lat~rthre,atfor···· 
~ U.S. does not send 
osovo... -.. -..·--. ••···· -....--.. "e shottid h».V('!jint¢r~.:~tis a!1JJ1,tt:§rJori . 
¦ WE LEARNED MORE FROM A 3-MlNUTE RECORD, BABY 
It Takes A Strong Man To Stand Beside A Strong Wolllan 
"! lol!e myselfwhen I am laughing ... and then again when I am looking mean and impressive. " 
-Zora Neale !lurslon 
Some people on this campus are scared of women. They do not love them when they are laughing. They do not love them when they are "look­ing mAan and impressive." They hardly even like them. Thny can tolnr­ate women as ornaments. They can 
appreciate their 
scary. nor partic­silence. Th1w can ularly hairy. and honor them ·as slw is a !'(•minist.
Mary
sellless mothers Wo 11nnd fp111i­who glow in nists, of' every pious shades of sort. in tlwMargaretblue. But get Catholic Church. those samo V\lc nend to work
Nussbaum 
women laughing, toward inclusiv(i give them electric language guitars or the ini-because, as the­
tials "CEO" and who knows what might happen -glass comes crash­ing from the ceiling -we all get hit. 
In his Observer column yesterday ("Spying on the Theologians"), Sean Vinck reported on some "disturbing things" he discovered while surfing the Web. Apparently he did not surf long enough to find any kiddie porn or news of the war in Kosovo. The offensive sitA was that of the Notre Dame theology department, where the "odious stench of radical femi­nism" has spread from the polluted secular cesspool and into our golden home. (Thank goodness.) 
The alleged "radical feminists" are guilty of issuing a most benign statement. The depart­ment makes it "a matter of policy to avoid sex· exclusive and sex-discrim­inatory language." That is their offense. There is your conspiracy. l, for one, am disappointed. There are some problems here. 
If this constitutes "radi­cal feminism," then it looks as though Andrea Dworkin and the whole Ms. Magazine staff can retire. And when did "rad­ical" become a bad word? When did "feminist" become an epithet? 
Feminism, red-hot radi­cal or diluted and luke­warm, is nothing more than support for basic human rights. Like any human rights movement, it has flaws and failings. But it is still relevant and it is still nAeded. 
We need whole and healthy women in our university and in our world. We need human rights and we ne1~d feminism. 
J\s long as strapping young mon need strapping young partners Lo dance backwards and in heels, we need feminists. 
As long as, according to the Unitod Nations, women are more than 50 percent of the world's population, perform two-thirds of the world's work. receive 1/10 of the world's income and own 1/100 of tho world's property, we need feminists. 
J\s long as twice as many women are killed by their hushands or boyfriends as by strangers, we need feminists, As long as we need slrnlters for mothers and rape whistles for co­eds and eating disorder counselors for 8-ycar-olds, we need feminists. 
As long as the President handl<1s 
women like the dessert tray and politicos want to talk about Monica's latest hairstyle. we nmid fominists. 
My sister has a button on lwr book­bag. ''This is what a fnminist looks like," it reads. She is 15 and giggly. She dyed lwr hair blornfo last sum­mer. Shn dates wlwn shn likns and is singfo when slw likes. She plays her Ani lliFranro loud. Slw is Catholic. She nrnkns meticulous biology lab rnports. Slw looks forward to bncom­ing a lot ol' things. Slw is 1witlwr 
ologian Mary Daly writes, "If God is male. then male is God." We need liturhry that allows f'or the l'ulf partic­ipation of women. 
We ncr,d feminists at Our Lady's University where, 27 years aftPr the dawn of co-education we have yet to change the school's lyrics from "sons go marching" to "sons and daughters march on," there has nevr,r been a female student body president and the patriarchy is alive and well. 
We all ought to be celebrating how sweet it is to have women seated at the table or academia. as scholars and teachers and authors. Wr, should 
be thankful to all the women, our grandmoth­er's and grandmother's mothers, who paved the way with their "crafts" f'or art most bold. llow they fought. as Alice 
g Walker writes, "To dis­
-cover books / Desks / J\ place for us/ llow tlrny knew what WP/ Must know/ Without knowing a page/ Of it/ Themsr,lvr,s." 
Vinck and the journal­ists at Hight Heason oftcn writr, of conspiracy; arti­cles on tlrn Wonwn's Rcsourcc Center. tht> heretical theologians and general liberal licentious­ness. 
It's a lot of prnaching and not much listening. II' they cannot lwar the strong womnn tlrny know; 
if' they arc not swayed by faith, by poetry or by fact, then we can nisort to bumper sticker philosophies and trading diches. (That is, after all, what f'ominists al'() reduced to -a clich(\ -and what God is rnducnd to when we say that he is a grandfatlwr• ly white man with a bit of' a potbelly.) llcrn's a platitude that rings true: "It takes a strong man to stand lwside a strong woman." II' not for tlrnir sist<•rs or the girls they'd like to dance with -if not for all of us stumbling humans -then pnrhaps men who fear women ought to h1arn more about feminism for themselves. J\ft()r all, when they arc standing boside a laughing woman who lovns linrscill' they will may look a bit more\ as th<:y wish, "mean and impn:ssive." 
Mia Nussbaum is a sophomore PI.S major from Colorado. 
The views expressed in lhis column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe 01>.<;erver. 

,---------,--"""'----------~------------------------··-. ---­
·-, ,-, -, ---­
VIEWPOINT 

_______________________ page 13
Wednesday, April 28, 1999 
¦ LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Students Respond to Fires, 'Riot' 
~-----­
Chaos the Reason for Life 
What's wrong with chaos'! Can anyway givn mp a logical answer to that qunslion'! 
Yes, some chaos can result in horrihlt~ things likn the Colombi1rn lragt\rly, but whal is inhcmntly wrong with just dmns itimlr! I havn !ward too many pmiplP nwntion tlm "riots" Mo11d,1y morning as sonwthing out of' "Lord of' tlrn Fli1\s" or that tlrny could not bnlinv11 1wopln would act likn this at Notrn Danrn.Why not'! 
Ilurnan socinty likns to estab­lish ruh!s and proc()rlurns for doing lhings. This is done for 1\llicinncy's sakn and to avoid chaos. hut d1ws that nwan rhaos is a bad or wrnng thing'! 
Sr.inncn majors will lrnar nm wlrnn I spnak of a man named Stanlny Milliir who explornd tlw origin of lifo. What hn found was that chaos was the rnason that bngan life as wn know Somnlime, billions of' ynars ago, lightnning struck a random spot and began Lim chain niaction of lifo. Some may call such a bnginning u part of' c;od's plan and tlwreby not chaotic. 
llow11wr, nvrm rnligion allows chaotic events to go unexplairwd and do not necns­sarily vinw them as a threat. Wn likn Lo think that wn am ahov1• chaos hut wn am not. It surrounds us at all tirnos hut wn elect to ignorn it. Driving in out cars W<' could losn control at any mon11~nLand crash. Ycl this does not paralyze us from driving. Evon something as routine as gning to the dining hall rnuld rusull in a trip or pince or roof !'ailing on som11­01w as thny enternd. This would all lw contrihutnd to chaos and yet we do not liv11 in constant fear of' it. 
Fear of chaos stems from people wanting to have control over every facet of their lives, That's impossible and should be dealt with through simple acceptance, Acceptance is the best way to deal with the mun­dann chaos of life that Notre Damn oxporienced so poignant­ly Monday morning. 
Accnptance was what the studnnts were doing out on the quads. They were not violent or angry. They were just enjoy­ing a great part of life: chaos. Ironically, what posed the grnatnst danger was the Univnrsily's attempt to actively control chaos. /1. snveral-ton firn truck unwilling to yield to pmlestrians was one example. /1.nothnr was a fire on North Quad put out by an extinguish­er than hurled noxious chemi­cals into the crowd. This causnd one student to think tear gas was being used. /1.nd, of course, students will be upset with lire fighters for dis­turbing their celebration of the chaos of life. 
This feeling expressed Monday morning was appro­priate for the gathering. The event was not some profound atrocity that carries complete emotional trauma. It was just a little chaos in which students could revel and partakn in a well timed break. Even in this, there was still thn desire to maintain some mode of order as was nvidnnt by the chanting or "We are ... ND!" 
Michael Cory Campbell Sophomore Sorin Hall April 26, 1999 
Letter Excerpts 
"The University has to acknowledge that we are kids in our late teens and early twenties. We have serious careers and graduate schools ahead ofus. If we can't act immature and have fun now, then when can we?" 
-Suzy Donnelly 
"Fundamentally, something like this was waiting to happen. When the lights went out, we felt freed, we felt a need lo lash out; we had our energy saved up and our frustration boiled over. There was one cause ofSunday night's event that nobody saw, and which we are all responsible for: the gross lack ofsex on this campus." 
-Steve Kovatis 
"What I witnessed greatly disappointed me; it was the lamest riot (ofsorts) that I have ever seen. Unrestrained pandemonium it was not. Just how bored are we?" 
-Rya1, Moodie 
"IfBill Kirk found it to be such a high priority to gfoe this couch to a little kid, couldn't the University have spared watering the already-saturated campus for FIVE minutes so as to save enough money to donate a roach 
to a family?" 
-Brendan Moran 
___i 
Black Sunday: A Shameful 
Moment for Notre Dame 
Let me be the first of the many who will undoubtedly express their shame and outrage regarding Sunday night's events. Never before in my three years as a student have I been so ashamnd of the Notre Dame student body. Do we really consider that a riot? 
After witnessing the activity cm South Quad, 1 am no longer surprised that we can't seem to improve our school's position in U.S. News 
and World Report's ranking of col• lcges and universities. I was under the impression that we at Notre Dame were to strive for excellence in everything we do. but apparently I was mistaken. Look at ftiiii!l:::!iiir• Michigan Stale. They lose a mere basketball 
game and proceed to ~ tnar up their entire 
city. (Can you imagine ........._"-';:_,-.,-· · duc<1 someone will-if it only took a basket-·..--~~~ ' ing to bn run ovm by hall loss to get us to V. \. ' the trucks. That's riot'?) We. on the other ~ ' how you get the 
hand, are given the national rncognition groat excuse or a cam-1 ,· i ,, ,! 1 that Notrn Damn pus-wide power outage '· '1 \\,1'( deserves. Given a grnat and can only muster a cou-\ {.; ~ {) , J· opportunity to create pie of burning couches. The \ ', ~-~ \~ ! , I news that doesn't involve sources of shame stemming ,\ I\ ~ ,_ ~ \ \~' \ football, gays or abortion, wn from Sunday night are many. \,;~~ ·1\\ / / students simply droppnd the 
First of all, our response time was ' ·1• ,-.\ • ball. 
horrible. A good 10 minutes passed between the lights going out the formation of anything even resembling a mob. 1wouldn't be surprised if people took time to iron their shirts and put on a clean pair of khakis before com­mencing their mindless stupidity. True riots wait for nobody, my friends. 
Additionally, our music selection was an absolute disgrace. The first thing I heard blasted on South Quad was the Notre Dame Fight Song, followed by "We Didn't Start The Fire." School spirit is great. for football games and all, but that isn't riot music! I won't even comment on the dis­aster that is Billy Joel. llow much better would each of our experiences have been were Guns & 
\ \, 
\. r'. 
I_. 
-~ . .­
· -'--..:.. 
Above all els,i, though, mrn incident stands out in my mind. I actually heard one stu­dent with the audacity tell another that it wasn't smart of him to add fuel to the bonfires in front of so many cameras. I can only hope that his obvi­ously insane commtmts wern the result of mob mentality. Such division within our studnnt body brings a tear to my eye. Unfortunately, the Notrn Dame Pamily was fracturnd on Sunday night. 
Mike Major Junior Dillon !!all April 26, 199'l 
Roses' "Welcome to the Jungle" ringing through the night air'' 
Another problem with Sunday involves the con­spicuous lack of looting. SurP, we will never losn the memories, but how many pcopln can actually boast a souvenir from the night? Was thern even a single washing machine stolon from Badin'! 1 don't know about everyone elsn, but whcrn I 
l 
. \', 
come from a rfot isn't a riot until pnople start stealing appliancns and tnlnvi­sions. / 1__,., To their crndit, Notrn Dame // Security unqunstionably did , .. i, thnir part. Police cars ... L--. were parknd on the ~-· , .,. quads and fire trucks 
sped through crowds. It's our job to llip those cars OY()r, 
I though, and to pro­

BSERVER ---------------Wednesday, April 28, 1999
page 14--------------------------OTIIE 


Photo courtesy of Epic Recor~s 
PearlJam 
Live On Two Legs 
Epic Records 
Psvcho-fan: ** 1/2 ( out of five) Normal: **** (out of five) 
Throughout the history of rock and roll music, one of the most fascinating divi­sions is the many "concept albums" from different bands. Pink Flovd will be rnmembered for its Dark Side of the Moon, while The Who may have mastered the craft with the rock operas fommy and Quadrophenia. But the world hasn't seen a concept album in quite awhile. The closest thing was Hadiohead's OK Computer, but that wasn't really a story. Well, get ready to enter the world uf Heinhold Messner as the Ben Folds Five take a stab at history with The Unauthorized Biography of Rninhold Messner. Reinhold Messner was a name that drummer Darren Jessee used on his fake IDs back in high school. It turned out that this name also belonged to tlw first man to scale Mt Everest without thP aid ol' artificial oxygen. Messner let the band use his name for the recording, and the band thanks him for "heing a good sport." The album is not about thn actual man: it centers around a fictional character. The album begins with Uen Folds' laying down a beautiful piano melody tu introduce the first trar.k. "Narcolepsy." This leads into a musir. sPc­lion l'illed with booming bass and lush strings. The song, which is pretty much comparable to an overtuni, linds Heinhold Messner unable to stay awake. lie lluats through lifo while people look at him thinking he doesn't care about anything in lifo. People begin to forget that he exists. casting him off as just another loser. While some people might not think that Ben Folds f-ive is trying to tell a story with this record, there are several points in the songs that relate to 1rnch otlwr. In tlrn second track "Don't Change Your Plans," Messner refusns to go with his girl­frinnd to J.os Angeles. Later in the CD. he consid­nrs going to Los /\ngclcs to "write a screenplay" in the song "Army." Hcinhold also says how his Yes, I know -it's just a tad late to be reviewing this album. I could not think of a proper way to review this album in the fairest and most unbiased fashion, which is why it comes fivC' months after its release. But eventually, I narrowed my apprnach to these two options. Option one: r pretend to be a casual Pearl Jam listener. knowing the words to the radio hits and having an opinion or two about the band. Option two: I could simply admit I'm a Pearl Jam junkie and approach the review with a men­tality that everyone else in the world is just as insane about the band as I am. So. here I am, with the last review of the school year, and f have finally come to a decision: I shall review the live album from both perspectives. 
Normal perspective: 
for the casual listener. this album serves a bet­ter purpose as a greatest hits album rather than a live album. Sure, Live On Two Legs is missing "Alive" and "JP.rcmv," but other than that, it sam­ples the best song~ f'rom the five studio albums and presents them in live form. For someone who jumped off the Pearl Jam band wagon a couph~ years ago, the album demonstrates how much the band has matured both musically and lyrically over the last nine years. 
A remarkable feature of the album is how well the songs flow into each other. Vedder has described in the past how he believes it is impor­tant for albums to possess the quality of a wave, so the listeners can feel the highs and the lows of the music. The angst-ridden opener "Corduroy" complements "Given To Fly," the mellow, heavily­influenced Led Zeppelin song which folJows. even though they are exact opposites. Even the transi­tion from the somber piano chords of "Nothingman" to the overly-brazen, riff-heavy "Do The Evolution" works well. 
Furthermore. the album shows how the band has improved upon older songs such as "Evenflow," with its lengthened jam toward the end of the song, and "Daughter," which includes lyrics from Yo1,1,ng's "Rockin' in the Free World" and Pearl Jam's own "W.M.A." 
Live on Two Legs is a great introduction to new fans and those fans that Pearl Jam won back at its summer shows. It presents them live, playing the music which has earned them a permanent mark in rock history. 
"redneck past is nipping at his heels" in "Army." 
In the next song, cleverly titled "Your Bedneck Past," people advise Reinhold on how to escape his past life that he so wants to change. Messner deals with his lack of l'ailh in "Mess" and with the death of loved mrns in "Magic." The CD closes with the beautiful "Lullabye," where Reinhold escapes into his sleep again, as ht~ dreams of fly­ing with his family and James Earl Jones. 
The story is only a fraction of the genius that can be attributed to this album. The music from this trio is phenomenal. Ben Folds is a master of the piano, and drummnr Darren Jessee provides expert rhythm changes. Bassist Robert Sledge provides infectious grooves and shows off his solo ability on the upbeat "Army." The band gets some help from a string quartet on most of the tracks, as well as from a horn section on a fpw tracks. The result is a bigger sound that captures the many characteristics of the trio, and amplifies it to tremendous heights. 
Ben folds Five have truly made a stop into another direction with The Unauthorized Biography of Reinbold Messner. Instead uf prc­senling a collection of songs, the trio has woven a talc of a man that never really belonged. The arrangenrnnts are tight. tlrn lyrics range frorn the heartfelt -"I don't believe in Gori, so I can't be saved" -to the hilarious -"My peers they criti­cize me, and my ex-wives all despise me." The album is just plain enjoyable. These threi. boys from Chapel Hill, N.C., have made something great. The real Iteinhold Messner would probably even laugh and cry while listening to the record. 
Geoffrey Rahie 
Psycho-fan perspective: 
When rumors started circulating about a Pnarl Jam live album, my imagination went absolut(dy wild. With 47 shows on the summer tour. I was guessing that the band would at least be releasing a doublt~ CD-set. I could almost imagirrn it: A song from every concort, full of' the hits, tho rarities and the covers that had made Lim 1998 tour so incredible. I began putting together my own "wishlist'' of songs and begging God that it would become true. 
But, alas, no1 Pearl Jam rnlmtsed a singlri disc with 16 songs in the disguised form of a greatest hits album. Arter reading ovor the track listing, my heart sank and my enthusiasm almost dissi­pated. For serious Pearl .lam f'ans. tlrn album hardly offered any new material; all of thn songs, with the exception of' the improv "Untitled," am widely available on livu bootlegs in high-quality, soundboard formats. 
What ang1m~cl me about this album is that I. like many P1~arl Jam diehards, wasn't looking ror u live version of "Daughter" or "Black" (Because, trust me, I have enough live copi!)S o!' these songs). I was anticipating an album that would serve as a memento of' the tour itself, onn in which the band covered nunwrous songs by the likes of ThH Who, Neil Young and many others. I'm not sure if Pearl Jam thought they were doing !'ans a favor by including a cover of Young's "F­in' Up," but it completely dampened the album by serving as the final track. For some obscure rea­son, the band decided to decrease the tempo ol' the song. absolutely killing its intensity. 
And where are the incredible improv jams that Pearl Jam's known for -the extend1\d guitar solos during "Porch," the bittersweet ending to "In Hiding" or the chaotic interlude of' "Rearviewmirror'"! 
Maybe I expected too much, but then again, too much is missing. This album does a poor job at delining the band's talent as a liv1\ act, !'ailing to capture the energy and thrill of a Pearl Jam con­cert. 
Emmett Malloy 

Photo courtesy of Sony Music 
Ben Folds Five 
The Unauthorized Biography of Reinhold Messner 
Sony Music 
***** (out of fi\'c) 

-------...---.----.,...,...------.----­
O
THE 
Wednesday, April 28, 1999 BSERVER ----------------------page 15 
-------'' . 
'' 


In support of tlaeir ne'W' Lox-set, Tlae Boss reunites 'W'itla tl.e E Street Band for their first lour in more ti.an a decade. 

111 NovPmlwr, llrtH'I! Springslnen rnlnasud Tracks, a f'our-CD-sPt illuminating his 1:arnnr lwyond the official album cuts. t•:arly this i\pril. ho rdeasmt 18 Tracks. a singlP disc fPaluring highlights from tlrn box­Sl'L lloth rnlnasns contain outtakns, rnritim; and livf' pPr1'11rma11rPs. 111 llw lirwr 11ol!•s to both. Springsteen said, "What. WP wnrc' doing in thnn, ltho sl\ldiol was making a lot of music, a lot mun\ music than I r.ould us,~ al any orw tim(:. As a resull. my Hlh11111s lm<:anw a St'ri11s of drnicns -what to ind11dP, what to IPaVI' out'! ... 01w of tlrn n1stllls of' worki11!,.\ like\ this was that a lot of music, including somP 111' my l'avorih' things. rcmainPd unn•lt!mwcl.'' Tlw alht1lll lll'gim; with sonw of Springstrnm's first work as a Columbia rt•cording artist. inrluding "(;rowing Up," a spiritPd song that d1•f'i1wd his ri·b1d persona and rock 'n' roll ambit.ion. Springslet>n's 1\arly work with lhe E SlrPH Band is 1'1\al111·NI in surh songs as "SPasidP Bar Song" and thn rock 'n' roll a11tlH'm "Wlwr<• th1• Bands /\rn." Later songs from thP I: Strnl'I nra include ".Jarwy Don't You l.os1· I I Part," a song aboul ho1rn and drnams. An acoustic vPrsinn ol' Springstem1's "Born tn Hun." a tributi• to Vietnam vPtcrans, is stun­11i11g. 
, -~ho allJ~m is roundo~ out _by t;,o,ugs ,fro1~ Spmgstecn s solo carnl'l' mduchng Sad !'.yes, u song aboul devotion to the one you love. In addition. I 8 Tracks contains thn)e honus tracks not fcaturncl 011 the box set -"The F<wnr," rncorded in 197'.{, a n11wly recorded solo v11r­sio11 of "The Promise" and "Trouble River," recorded during the recording sessions for Human Touch. 
18 Trncks nlfors an altnrnalf~ history of' one of' the grnatcst legends of' rock. It is a must-have for all Bruc(1 Springstc1m fans. Those fans who might not bl' willing to pay for the Pntire hox­snt will got a sampl.ing of Lim "ones that got away." Consummate fans will b•i treated to thren incrcdibl11 bonus tracks. Even lirst-timtJ lisw,rnrs arc cnc:ouragnd to purchase the CD as lhey will get a taste of The Boss al his best. 
Jennifer Zatorski 

Photo courtesy of Columbia Records 
Bruce Springsteen 
18 Tracks 
Columbia Records 
**** (out of five) 
Then ... 
... and Now 
Bruce Springsteen and the E-Street Band pose during the "Glory Days." 
AP Photo 
Nils Lofgren, Bruce Springsteen and Steve Van Zandt jam in Barcelona, Spain, earlier this month. 
For tlw first tinw in almost IO ynars, Brue,: Springstenn and the E Street Band have hit tlw road for a major series of µ11rl'ormances. They lmvn not pPrfornwd together since t.lw "'I lunmn Bighls Now! An11rnsty lnternalional Tour." "/\t this point in my lif'P. I rPally miss1\d playing with those guys," SpringsltH111 told Uw i\s:mciulPd l'n:ss. "Tlwst: arc pcopln l'v<~ known sincn my lmms ... To sharo lhat closnness, it's ll!llJSllill." T!J,, world-wid1\ lour IH'gan on April 9 in Barc1•lona, Spain. to a sold out crowd of 20,000, with a 25-song sol. lasting almost threll hours. "My Lovti Will Not Lill You Down" was thn 011ly song l'rom Tracks. Tlw band nxpnrimP11tNl with tompo and phrasing in order to put sonw 1ww twists on sonw old favorites. Tlw hrropPan (1\g will last t.hrough .lunn 7 and features shows in Spain, c;ermany, Italy. Austria, SwitzPrland, Franco, England and lrnland. The United Stales tour dal<'S have not bn(•11 a1111ounet\d yt\t, !Jut will lwgin in mid-July and continue through the ond of SPp!Pmlwr Spring-stcwn and tlw E Stnint Band an• 1•xpPctPd to play a multi-night series of ronr:i-rts in sd<•cl major cities nationwide. IL is rumored that Springsteen will play u Hi-or 17-daln stand at l.lw Contirwntal i\irlirrns Arena in his homn staLP of New Jnrsey. Th:kl•t inf'urrnation is availabln on tho W('b at www.ti:r.r.('omlbspring.hlm/_ Tho Web sit<' !'1•atur1$ ,111 l'·mail nolilkalion foaturP l'or insta11l updatns and breaking tour news. 
Jennifer Zatorski 
SET LIST 
Barcelona, Spain April 9, 1999 
MY LOVE WI LL NOT LET YOU DOWN PROVE IT ALL NIGHT TWO HEARTS DARKNESS ON THE EDGE OF TOWN MANSION ON THE HILL THE RIVER YOUNGSTOWN MURDER INCORPORATED BADLANDS OUT IN THE STREET 10TH AVENUE FREEZEOUT TOUGHER THAN THE REST LUCKY TOWN SPIRIT IN THE N1GHT GHOST OF TOM JOAD PROMISED LAND SHE'S THE ONE BACKSTREETS LIGHT OF THE DAY STREETS OF PH ILADELPH IA BOBBY JEAN BORN TO RUN THUNDER ROAD IF I SHOULD FALL BEHIND LAND OF HOPES AND DREAMS 
r 
page 16 
¦ NHL 
Numminen leads Phoenix to viCtOry 
Associated Preas tle room to ma:ne-uver..-:.-..:· 
Just,_asjn.the regul.11r ..sea.-...• 
ST. LOUIS son, home icl:l was no advan­
Teppo Numminen's power­tage for the ,mues•;. St, Louis play goal snapped a second­closed the season ()ll a 14:4-1 . period tie and the Phoenix road run. hutwris'6nly18°17-' 
Coyotes' defense made it 6 at the Kiel C.enter. stand up for a 2-1 victory Geoff Courtnall was. in the·• over the St. Louis Blurs and a penalty box for ronghtng commanding lead in their when· Nuinminen scored-his first-round series Tuesday second goal of the series Qll a night. slap shotfrom tht; point that 
Greg Adams also scored and hopp-e'd up and over ·fuhr's Nikolai Khabibulin made 27 stick with 34.8 seconds tQ go saves for the Coyotos, who in the second. Phoenix had have won three straight since been 2-for~26 on the power losing the opener at home. play in the series before then. They can close out the serfos Numminen scored only one on Friday night in Phoenix. power-play goal during the 
The Blues' Pascal Rheaume regular season. but was got his lirst goal of the play­fourth on the team vvith 16 offs and Grant Fuhr rebound­points with the man advan­ed nicely from bis Game 3 dis­tage. aster, when he allowed four Fuhr got a huge ovation goals on 1 O shots in a 5-4 when he was introduced as loss. Fuhr didn't aJlow a goal the starter and an even bigger until the Covotes' 12th shot one when he made a. divingand he made·18, saves. savo to thwart Mike Stapkton 
But the Coyotes put the on a shorthanded breakaway 
clamps on high-scoring at 3:25 of the secoud.. fle also 
defenseman Al Macinnis. who made a nice sproad-eUgle 
entered the game with an save to stop Adams on a 2-on­
NHL-leading eight points in 1 break at about the five­
the playoffs. Macinnis got lit· minute mark.ofthe second. 
Classifieds 
FURN. ROOM;FURN. ONE BED­
The Observer• SPORTS Wednesday, April 28, 1999 
¦ NHL 
Devils win, even series at 2-2 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH 
Finally. arter three games. lhe New Jersey Devils proved they could beat the .Jaromir Jagr-lcss Pittsburgh Penguins. 
Sergei Brylin and Handy MeKav srored 1:33 apart during a momentum-altering sequence, and McKay screened l'enguins goaltender Tom Barrasso to set up another goal as the Devils r,vened the series by winning 4-2 Tuesday night. 
Brian Rolston scored his sixth short-handc~d goal of tlw season -and the league-high 15th allowed by PitL-;hurgh. Ancl Scott Stevens restor<>d the Devils' two­goal load in L11e third period by sroring three sernnds before the encl of a power play r.aus<~d by a Pittsburgh bench error. 
The Drvils. who prnmaturrly exited the Eastern Conference playoffs as Lhe Nu. 1 seed the last two srasnns and wr,re threatening to do it again. regained home-ice advantage going into Game' 5 Friday in the Meadowlands. 
The only differnnce then will bP the Penguins may have Jagr, the NIIL's three-time scoring champion and most creative offensive force, back in their lineup for the first time since Game 1. 
Jagr skated in a warmup suit earlier Tuesday and said he probably would have played if the Penguins trailed, but wanted to give his injured groin another couplc of days' rest. 
Now, Jagr won't have that lux­ury as the Penguins must win in New JersP-y for the second time in three games to avoid falling behind 3-2 and prevent Sunday's Game 6 from being a possible elimination game. 
By winning, the Devils ,mded a streak of scvun consecutive road playoff losses that began with their surprising 1997 second­round oustnr by the Hangers and extended into last vear's out-of­nowhere first roun·d elimination by Ottawa. 
Thr Drvils, convineod tlrny were outplaying the Penguins even while lulling behind 2-1 in tlw srries, clearly were superior Tuesday as the Penguins, for the first time, clearly missed Jagr's sroring. playmaking and skating skills. 
At onn point, tlw Devils had outslwt the Penguins 32-14, and that was before dcfonseman Scott Stevcns's slap shot from the blue line whizzed by Barrasso as McKay blockrd the goaltender's vision by tying up Jiri Slegr in front of the net. 
That goal, at 2:50 of the third. followed one of Pittsburgh's first glaring mental mistakes or the series, a too-many-nwn-011-tlrn­icc p1)nalty r<)sulting from a poor line change. 
The Penguins didn't hav11 tlw offense to come back after that. especially with Jagr not oven in uniform and center Martin Straka, who scored three goals in their 4-2 victory in Garno :{, being pushed, shoved and knocked off th11 puck nearly every time he touclrnd it. 
For the first time in the sPries, New .Jersoy scornd the first goal, and the Devils never gave up the load while scoring four goals for the first timn in tlrnir last 16 playoff ganws. 
With McKay off for holding. Holston grabb11d tho puck rwar tlrn blue line\ and boat Barrasso cleanly just 138 into the game. Holston set a Devils team rq~ular !Wason rncord with f'iv(\ short­handncl goals. 
The sanw powPr play yi,~ld<·d tlw tying goal by .Ian llrclina at 2:!i0 as lw swept HobbiP Hrown's pass by Martin lhodPur. who had a rPlativnly quid night by facing only 18 shots -21 l'cwPr 
than Barrasso saw. 
The Devils, who lost Ganw :~ mostly bPcaUS(' tlu•y allowPd two l'iltsburgh goals only 40 SPconds apart at tlw start or tlw Lhird period, may havp won this one• bPr.auso of a similar flurry. 
The Observer accepcs classifieds every business Jay from 8 a.m. to 3 p.111. at the Nolfe I lame oHice. 024 Sourl1 Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is Jp.111. All classifieds musr be prepaid. The charge is? ccncs per characrer per day, including all spaces. The Obserwr reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for con1e11t without issuing refunds. 
MOVING? LET US HELP! Umphrey's McGee is playing 3 last Love is not like a potato. You can't 
ROOM APT;PRIVATE BRAND NEW 1 piece to a house full. concerts before all y'all head back throw it out the window.
NOTICES 
ENTRANCE.AIR, KITCHEN.LAUN• S O F A 286-7094 home. so come check it out 
DRY.PHONE.UTILITIES INCLUD· 4 Buongiorno. principessa! SUMMER JOB working with ED.5 MINN. CAMPUS 272-0615 SALE! Any sr.(s) looking 4 a rmmate in 4/28 TONIGHT! Madison Oyster my two autistic sons using Chicago? Bar withe Green Scene opening # 1 way to know who your friends behavior modification. 2 bdrm w/loft condo in Oak Hill. Forest Green and Beige Full Size Call Mike 247-9035 9:30 21+ $4 are: They'll tape Felicity and then Training Provided Possible Close lo campus. Fpl, pool. Avail. Sofa, from Brooks Brother's watch it with you. work for next semester. 6/1. Grad. students only please. Furniture Store, including matching UPWARD BOUND PROGRAM 5/1 Saturday -Seitz Park on the Call Pam@ 273·2761 $700/mo. pillows, is great for any single or for The University of Notre Dame east race, ALL AGES & FREE1 3:00 
1-509-926-8118. any apartment. Price is very nego· Dorm staff and Licensed Instructors pm w/kayaking and music Thanks for making this a great This is the last regular issue of the tiable. Must sell soon! Also, Forest needed for 6 wks. Funded by U.S. Observer year! We'll rock next year Observer. THE END!111 Walk to school Green and Beige Carpet pioce. cut Dept. of Education. Send resume & sn Friday -Madison Oyster Bar. too. 
All size homes 4 a single, that matches the sofa cover letter to the Department of 10:00 pm 21+ $3 Starting at 185/month/person perfectly, is for sell' (Lott kit perfect Human Resources. Campus MW -hopefully, no one will be in ILOST & FOUND I MMMRENTALS@aol.com for a single is also available, along Security Bldg., Notre Dame. IN ... and take a look at our new web­your closet next year and you won't 
232-2595 with a University Ethernet Card!) 46556. EEO/AA Employer. site located at hear weird breathing! If you do. you Lost: 100 CDs that were in a black SENIOR CANT WAIT TO GRADU­know where to find me. Thanks for CaseLogic carrying case. Lost in IT'S NOT TOO LATE ATE-EVERYTHING MUST ADOPTION-So. Cal. cple www.umphreys.com being a wonderful roommatei LaFortune the night of 2/26199. GO!!!!!!!!!!!!!! looking to adopt newborn. Monetary reward being offered if 3-6 BDRM HOMES. SUMMER OR Contact x1549 and leave message Love AW -jersey is in the house. Did found. No questions asked. FALL.FURN. STARTING outdoors/animals.stable.devoted & you know they just declared jersey Please call Brian at 4·1126 w/ any $185/mo/person 90"Couch. financially secure. Umphrey's McGee is playing 3 last capital of the world? info 272-6551 271-8078 Will help w/expenses.Can concerts before all y·all head back I'll need a M..ini to get thru the 
provide comfort.support & home. so come check it out comm law Large, double pocket L.L. Bean House For Rent. Entertainment center, bookshelves. understanding.Process legal & backpack wl Pietasters patch. $50 Walk to Campus1! desk, twin bed confidential. Call toll free 4/28 TONIGHT! Madison Oyster Michelle -I told you I'd write you a cash reward if returned w/contents. 4-5 Bedroom. Graduating seniors must sell (1-888) 756-0667 pin #4195 Bar withe Green Scene opening classified. There. No questions asked. Summer or Fall. Call 243-2856 Karynn/Chris 9:30 21+ $4 call 634-1 061 Call 289-4712 Girls -get ready to rally. 
Take a break. See a real live band 5/1 Saturday -Seitz Park on the Lost Glasses: black, metal. 3 BDRM.DUPLEX 88 VW Fox GL $2,500 (John 271-(60's thru 90's rock) east race. ALL AGES & FREE! 3:00 MW-HAPPY BIRTHDAY! Time to oval. Safilo frames; clip on 1 MILE FROM CAMPUS 7961) ART pm w/kayaking and music party like a rockstar. sunglasses; black case. 503 EDDY ST. & If found call Paul@ 4-4765 APPLIANCES+ W/D NoShoreClub condo. 2BR THE ARTICHOKES 5/7 Friday -Madison Oyster Bar, I is Budget. You is pepper. Burning 
273-8332 I.SBA. Deck. Garage. (219)246-Friday at HEARTLAND 10:00 pm 21+ $3 couches makes me wanna pick up Found: Insulin kit with glucometer in 1668. 10pm a copy of lord of the flies. LaFortune. Go to Health Center to 3 BR House. what a scene ...and take a look at our new web• claim.· Complete Remodel-Great Area. Rollaway twin bed Like new. site located at I luv pepper but I don't want to get 
1 mile to ND. $60. THE FLORIDA EVANS fat! Do you have any advice for Lost: black zip fleece Columbia AVAIL 5/1 to 8/1 /99 246-166B SHOWBANO AND REVUE www.umphreys.com me? jacket @Finnigans 2 weeks ago -Call 273-1717 17 song cd is out now!!!! call Kelly 3813 Toyota Corolla 1987 one hundred copies sold in the Marry me; I'm lazy! 
OFF CAMPUS HOUSING ... 4D $1,700 Call 289-7335 first four daysll! Thank you all for a wonderful year. FALL 1999 perezlinan.1@nd.edu $5$5$5$5$5$5$5$5$5$5$5 I am going to party now. Noah, you're so hotll! come to
WANTED 
4-8 STUDENTS .. SEVERAL Point is, get it now. because time is mama... easy does it. mmmm. I 
CLEAN.SAFE PROPERTIES.. 1992 Toyota Tercel running out. To get one. stop a Hey Cousin, likey you pumpkin. Looking for a really great summer CALL DAVE AT 291-2209 low mileage. in great condition band member on campus, call 273• Enjoy the anesthesia on Friday. sitter for 3 really great kids I $4500,call 9795. or email curreri. 1@nd.edu Good luckl Dylan, I can't make it tomorrow, but Flexible hours with perks! Call Ruth OFF CAMPUS HOUSING 271-5626 and we'll work it out. -Me and Everyone Else I'll be with you in spirit. Don't mind 277-6697. FALL 1999..SMALL HOUSE They are being sold at Lula's, as lhe tape, Kelly will be back soon. 
PERFECT FOR TWO well. Ben.
TICKETS
Two ND grads need a great STUDENTS... Only 10 days left. let's make the Well folks. this is it. .. last paper, babysitter for our school-age SHORT DRIVE TO CAMPUS. RUMMAGE SALE most of it. I'll miss you. finals coming soon Maybe I'll share kids.afternoons in May and into the DAVE 291-2209 I NEED GRAD TICKETS! Sat.. May 1 • B:30-4:30 -Marianne some random thoughts with y'all. summer.Close to CALL KELLY-243-8932 1/4 mile east of US 933 on Douglas campus.232-5790. OAKHILL Rd. next to Moreau Seminary. Students at this school are so In my editorial opinion. fires in the 
Two bedroom loft apartment I NEED graduation tickets THIS IS NO ORDINARY RUM­pathetic. They even riot preppy. quad are really. really cool. It sure 277-6780 Please call John @271-8531 MAGE SALE. YOU MUST SEE IT beats toasting marshmellows in the 
FOR RENT 
TO BELIEVE IT. Emily Snow doesn't like it when I one microwave we have in our IT'S NOT TOO LATEI!!! write her name ,n the classifieds. dorm. BED 'N BREAKFAST I PERSONAL I Umphrey·s McGee is playing 3 last REGISTRY concerts before all y'all head back Well, Joe & co.. this is your last one To that cute girl in my theology
FOR SALE
219-291-7153 English Classes at the South Bend home. so come check it out: of the year How'z it feel? class, I really hope you feel better . 
I
...___________.., English Institute. English taught as 
4/28 TONIGHT! Maciison Oyster STAYING IN SOUTH BEND FOR NEW Rates Phone Cards a Second Language. Located two Bar withe Green Scene opening Shannon and Michelle are the Next year's roomies, it should be a THE SUMMER??? 282 min. $20 call blocks west of IUSB. 9:30 21+ $4 coolest. I love them to bits and blast. Can't wait to join 3B. 
Lovely five-bedroom, single family 258-4805 • 9 LEVELs intensive training 5/1 Saturday -Seitz Park on the pieces. 
house available for sub-lease. • NEW SESSION every 4 wks. east race, ALL AGES & FREE! 3:00 2B, I finally woke up!!! Miss you About a mile from campus. 1980 Triumph convertible "PRIVATE TUTORING avail. pm w/kayaking and music Except for the part where Shannon guys over the summer. Ward, put Sale neighborhood. Clean. Two $3,500 Phone 219-287-3622. 5/7 Friday -Madison Oyster Bar. can't work the sound system. down my gordita dog!!! 
window air-conditioners. (277-2684) 10:00 pm 21+ S3 
Washer and dryer, stove, refrige. I NEED graduation tickets ... and take a look at our new web­This is the last time I'll check these Thanks most to Mike Connolly, Call 634-0562 for into. COUCH/CHAIR 272-6551 please call me @ 271-8531 site located at www.umphreys.com How tragic. you're a friend and inspiration. 
Wednesday, April 28, 1999 The Observer• PAID ADVERTISEMENT Page 17 
___________.:__:_:_::__:::_c:.;;__=-;_..::c..._----=----"-------------------------'.::__ 
R~c::yr>"~ ­
~~~.,u-~ 
StudentAward 
RecSports "Champion Student Award" recipients are selected by the Office of Recreational Sports. Honorees are chosen for their involvement in RecSports, including excellence in sportsmanship, leadership and participation. 
Paul Chen is a senior Computer Science major from Amherst, New Hampshire. During his four years at Notre Dame, Paul has been very active in a variety of RecSports' activities. As a member of the Boxing Club, Chen was the Bengal Bout Champion in the 180 lb. weight class. The Boxing Club also named him "Outstanding First Year Boxer". He also helped lead both his indoor lacrosse team as well as the Sorin IH football team to the championship games this year. And, his IH lacrosse team is still alive in the play-offs. Besides clubs and intramurals, Paul has also participated in fitness classes and the Christmas in April Benefit run. After graduation, he will be moving to San Francisco to begin his career in computer technology. 

Recipients receive <£~merchandise from the 
...... 
VARSITY SHOP 
.... 
"Specializing in Authentic Notre Dame Sportswear" 
(Joyce Center) 
zit 'I. 
VARSITY SHOP
R~c/~ 
'l'I' 
"Specializi11g in Authentic 
www.nd.edu/-recsport 
Notre Dame Sportswear" 
Upcoming Events & Deadlines 
Thanks to all who make RecSports happen. We would not be able to do it without youl 

Look for this award to appear in the Observer every other Wednesday. Students selected receive <£,~ 
J°T'L...,...~J.L~ A&. .Jl.'I.
merchandise courtesy of \.,&.--.._.........1--y... and the v:Fj.1z:i0! with two locations in the Joyce Center. The virzior is open Monday-Saturday 9:00am to 5:00pm and Sunday 12:00pm to 4:00pm. (Phone: 631-8560). 
page 18 The Observer• SPORTS Wednesday, April 28, 1999 
¦ NCAA FOOTBALL 
Bowden enjoys life away from Auburn football 
Associated Press 
AURUl1N. Ala. 
Terry Bowden's house is tucked into woods on a hill over­looking a pond. 
IJis Labradnrs, Shug and Bear Bryant, roam the yard and his five young children rule thl\ homr. 
Even without football, life is good. 
Six months after abruptly walk­ing away from his job as head football coach at Auburn. Rowden is sticking around town. living only a few miles from Jordan-llaro Stadium, and enjoy­ing it. 
lie ignored father Bobby Bowden's advice to "get out of town." He and his wife, Shyrl, stayed put, kept their five chil­drnn in Auburn's public schools and together coach their daugh­ters' softball team. 
Shyrl, for a change, is the head coach in the house. 
"J am no longer depressed or demoralized like I was back in October and November," said Rowden. thr bust of Hear Bryant for his 1993 coach of the year award on his desk. 
"Right now, Shyrl and I ani as excited as we can be about the future, because there are so many possibilities. And we think time will erase the bitterness," he said. 
It's already faded among Auburn residents. with whom he mingles at church, on errands and at his kids' school functions. 
"I don't perceive anybody wish­ing he'll get out of town or think­ing badly about him," said Barry McKnight, host of a Montgomery sports radio show who lives in Auburn. "I think a lot of people are kind of proud he thinks enough about this town that he's sticking around." . · 
Bowden took over the Tigers in 1993 and won his first 20 games. lie also won the Southeastern Conference Western Division title in 1997. 
llut the injury-riddled Tigers started 1-5 last season and Bowd1m's job security soon became an issue. lie has said Auburn athletic director David l lousel told him there was little to do to save his job and that pow­erful trustee Bobby Lowder was behind the decision. Both have denied the claims. 
'ITHOUGHT HE WAS 
GOING TO BE A LAWYER. I HAVE A FEELING THAT AFTER A YEAR .•• HE'LL WANT TO GET BACK INTO IT.' 
BOBBY BOWDEN 
FLORIU4 STATE FOOTBALL COACI! 
AND TERRY ROWDEN's FAT!!ER 
Regardless, Bowden left. He walked away the night before the Tigers played Louisiana Tech. 
"You can debate ad nauseum why I left, how I left, whose fault it was.ff said Bowden, who wound up 47-17-1 in 5 1/2 seasons. 
''I'm very comfortable right now looking back and saying to my friends at Auburn, 'Didn't we have a good time? Didn't we roll Toomer's Corner [after victories] enough?'" 
As new coach Tommy Tubervi!IP !Pads the Tigers toward the 1999 season. Bowden is sorting out his professional life. 
He hasn't bPen idle He spPnds two or three days a week in Birmingham working with broth­er Steve to kick-start a business and is an avid reader and fisher­man. Of the business, he'II only say. "We think it's going to br something very valuable for the state of Alabama." 
Hr also expects lo be a college football analyst for a "major net­work" next fall. Bowden has spo­ken to such coachns-turned-ana­lysts-turned-coaches as Dick Vermeil [St. Louis Rams], Jimmy Johnson [Miami Dolphins] and Lou Holtz (South Carolina]. 
"They all got hungry for it again," Buwden said. "I hope 1 can live without it I was always taught, don't coach football unless you can't live without it. f'm hoping I'll fall in love with broadcasting." 
His father, Florida State's roach, said he was surprised when his son went into coaching in the first place, but expects him to return to the sideline. 
"I thought he was going to be a lawver," Bobbv Bowden said. "I hav~ a feeling"that after a year, when all the schools start knock­ing on his door, he'll want to be back into it." 
Terry Bowden received a set­tlement of about $620,000 from Auburn, his base salary of $155,000 for the remaining four years on his contract, plus some other benefits. But it forbade the Bowdens from making "negative or derogatory" statements about Auburn or Auburn officials. There seems litlle risk of that. 
"We'll always think of Auburn as one of the greatest times of our life," Bowden said. "Once a school gives you a chance, Hkn Auburn gave me a chance, I think you owe them something." 
Looking back on a career that included stops at NAIA Salem College in 1983, Samford in 1987 and Auburn. tlw 4'.{-yfrnr-old Howden figures ho was on pace, with 111 career wins, to eclipse Bear Bryant's all-timn rncord of' 32:-l victories. 
"I was always chasing that Bear Bryant record," said Bowden, who narnnd his dogs after Bryant and Auburn's win­ningest coach, Ralph "Shug" Jordan. "All my life I was chasing that." 

Classes are starting now! 
Call today to reserve your seat. Sign-up Here, STUDY ANYWHERE! 
With over 160 Kaplan Centers to choose from, you can start a class here and finish over the summer. 
Class starts May 5 

-;;;--­
In t,:/,/eader 
----Prep

1-800-KAP-TEST --­
www.kaplan.com 
•LSAT is a regislered trademark of the Law School Admission Cour.cil. 
60 YEARS OF BUILDING FUTURES. ONE SUCCESS STORY AT A TIME. 

brought to you by SV<B 
STEPMOM 
Thursday, April 29 10:30 pm Friday, April 30 8:00 & 10:30 pm Saturday, May I 8:00 & 10:30 pm 
Cushing Auditorium $2 
Wednesday, April 28, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 19 
¦ MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
,¦ NFL 
Floyd leads Marlins past Cubs :thiefs sign ageless 
Asso<:iJtcd Pres., 
MIAMI 
Thn w11nf'ul Florida Marlins lookNJ likn a much bnttcr team with tlmir best hiller and best piLclwr back in the lineup. 
Slugger Cliff Floyd, making his llJIJIJ debut, and ace Alex 1:nnandcz came off tlrn dis­ahlnr! list Tuesday Lo spark an 8-0 victory ovllr tho Chicago Cubs. 
JinrnantlPz pitched four scurnlnss innings in his first start since April 11. The Marlins limitnrl tlrn right-han­dn r to <, 1J pitclrns, and he appnarnd angry about lrning rPlllClVCHI onn inning short of' thP livP innings rwmlml to qual­ify for LhP victory. 
1-'loyd. r!'lurni11g f'rCllll a spring-training knne injury, lrngan to narn tlw l'our-ynar, $ I 1J 111illion co11trucl hn signml last wi11tnr. 111• singl1•d in his l'irst at-bat and scored on 1\1-vin Ori11·s double, tlwn sin­g)f'(I in tlw sixth lwl'on~ d1•1mrt­ing f'ur a pinrh rumwr. 
1:1orida, wliil'li has NL's worst rPrord. broke a lhrPn­g111111• l11sing strnak. 
Mark Kotsay a11cl t\kx 
Conzalez hit solo home runs, their first for the Marlins. The homers increased the team total to 10, matching the top individual total in the majors by Tampa Bay's Jose Canseco. 
Jorge Fabregas, who began the night batting .175, drove in three runs with a double and a pair of sacrifice flies. Brian Erhnonrlson { 1 -1) allowed one hit in 3 1-:l innings and hit th,~ first two doubles of his career, driving in one run. 
Fernandez, making only his third start in his comeback from rotator cuff surgnry in Octuber 1997, limited Chicago to four hits and lowered his ImA to 1.98. Bnfore thn game, manager .John Boles said Ftm1andHZ would be limitml to 
7:i pitdrns. 
Orioles 8, Royals 4 
ILi. Surhoff had a carcPr­high five hits, including two doublns and a homer, as the Baltimore Orioles heat the Kansas City Hoyals 8-4 Tuesday night l'or only their second victory in IO games. 
Surlwff went 5-f'or-5, eclips­ing his prnvious carner-b11st of 
-
four hits set 22 times previous­ly. Needing a triple to hit for , the cycle, he doubled into the 
e;QB Warren Moon 
right-field corner in the sev­
\,;.,•:.· ·,i.:: :''
enth inning and singled in a run in the eighth. 
.AssociaUid Pras Mike Mussina (3-1) allowed rour runs and nine hits in 
l<ANSA5 CITY, Mo. seven-plus innings, a vast I> ls Warvtm Moon ready to improvement over his previous h cad,qy tor E}vil;i Grbac? 01· b.,we outing when he yielded 10 
the Kansas City Chiefs guaran­earned runs against Tampa 
, teed a quarterback controversy Bay. Mussina has been on the 
l,ly sigtJing .om~ of l.he most pro­mound in• four of Baltimore's 
lific passers in NFL history to five wins this season. 
back up a guy who's been The Orioles held a team 
· beI1ched by both injury and meeting before the game, th<m 
ineff~ctivi1ness the past two went out and built a 6-0 lead 
· yeats? · after four innings. The Hoyals 
~Quarterback controversies closed lo 7-4 in the eighth 
only come when one guy before Mike Timlin got the 
doesn't do well and the other final four outs for his fourth 
guy does well," the 42-year-old save. 
Moon said Tuesday after sign­Charles .Johnson hit his first 
Ing a two-year contract with homer with Baltimore, a solo 
Kansas City. shot thal also accounted for his 
"If that doesn't happen, th.it's rirst HBI of the season. and 
. where J step in. But we rMlly Albert Belle stole home on the 
shouldn't even talk a.bout con• front end of a double steal. 
troversy until it gets to some Despite the victory, 
point like that. Right now, he's Baltimore stlll owns Urn worst 
the guy. I think he's going to record in the majors [5-11]. 
grasp the position and take con­.Johnny Damon homored and 
trol and go. I'm very confident lrnd two HBls for the Hoyals, 
[Grbac] is going to play well." who have lost eight of 11. 
In 15 seasons with Houston. 
Minnesota and Seattle, Moon has passed for 49,097 yards and 290 touchdowns. Before that. he passed for 21,228 yards and 144 touchdowns in six years with the Edmonton Eskimos of the Canadian Football League. 
On Dec. 16, l 990, in Kansas 

City, he passed for 527 yards ­37 yards short of l.he NFL's sin­gle-game record -in leading Houston past the Chiefs. 
Moon spent the past two 
years at Seattle as the designat­
ed backup and admits it's not 
easy being No. 2. 
"It's tough. There's no ques­tion it's tough. I've been a starter all my life and I've been very successful all my life. But 
:.Out@ 
I'm at a point in my career where you have to take advan­
tage of whatever there is for you,'' he said. "And this is the best opportu­
Study Day Sp~cial 
Order a large or medium pizza at our regular price, 
nity for me all around. There's 
going to be some point in the
and get a second one-topping medium for only S4! 
273-9944 
Delivery or Carry-Out 

t»~'lbl 
The Real Enchilada.
,,...--­
lN TOWN FOR THE SUMMER? 
NE H? 

SERVERS 
HOSTS 
SUPPORT STAFF 
FULL/PART TIME 
DON PABLO'S 4160 GRAPE ROAD 254-9395 
season where I'm going to get on the field. I just hope it's not because of an injury or some­thing like that." 
Grbac, who will be 29 when the next season starts, missed 
16 games tho past two seasons. 
He was benched last year dur­
ing a six-game losing streak 
that led to a 7 -9 record and 
kept the Chiefs out of tlHi play• 
offs for the second time in three 
seasons. 
Rich Gannon, who played 
well when he came in for 
Grbac, became the favorite of 
most Chiefs fans and many 
playtirs. But he signed a freti­
agent contract with Oakland 
when the Haiders offered to 
rnakn him their starter. 
"Hopefully, I can help [Grbac) 
get a little bit better. hopefully I 
.-;a.n push him and take him to 
new heights," said Moon, who 
started 10 games for Seattle 
la.'lt year. "If not, I'll be them to 
take over the slack. That's basi­
cally my job." 
But he was careful Tuesday to say all the right things. 
"Elvis is the guy playing from the outset here," he said. "In order for this football team to do well, I've got to support him just like everybody else does. Believe me, I'll bti behind him and answer any quostion hn might have. 
"But if something happens 
wlrnre_ ho's injured or doesn't 
play very well, then I'm there 
and ready to play. That's just 
tho role I havti and I think it will 
be an easy role for nm to do 
because I've done it once beforn 
and I think the guys will 
respond to that." 
Meanwhile, the Chiefs 
announced Tuesday they signed 
vtiteran linebacker Marvcus 
Patton, 31, to a three-year con­
tract as an unrestricted free 
agent. Patton spent tho past 
four seasons with Washington 
-including three as the 
Redskins' leading tackler ­
and the preceding fivn with the 
Buffalo Bills, playing in 144 
straight gmnes. 
An eighth-round drall pick by the Bills out of UCLA in 1990, P;1tton has 972 career tackles {659 solo), 14 sacks, 10 inter­ceptions for 46 yards, seven fumble recovNies and I I forced fumblt\s. With 
.Washington in 1998 hr had a 
career-high 192 tackles, includ­
ing 134 solo. 
Get Rid of Your STUFF 
and win $1,000 @ auctions. FairMar~et .com 
It's end of semester, time to get rid of your stuff quick and online auctions are the most efficient way to do it. Listing on auctions.fairmarket.com is free AND gets 
you an entry in a drawing to Win $1,000. The more listings you place, the more chances you have to win, Just enter cleanup in the promo code area when you register. 
See official rules on auctions fairmark:et.com for details. No listing necessary to enter. Void where prohibited by law. 
.. 
page 20 The Observer• SPORTS Wednesday, April 28, 1999 
· Five athletes win 1999 Byron Kanaley awards 
Observer Staff Report a 3.708 GPA as a film, television and theatre major. The Faculty Board on Athletics Ila!! is a two-time All­
has announced Mike Brown. American in tennis and holds the Kerry Callahan, Jennifer llall, all-time Notre Dame record for Phil Murphy and Andy Warford singles wins. She is ranked 56th as winners of the 1999 Byron V. nationally with a 23-4 record on Kanaley Awards. the year. As an accounting 
The award, considered the major, she has a 3.489 GPA. 
most prestigious honor for NotrP Murphy is a former soccer Dame student-athletes, honors walk-on who went on to become those senior monogram winners a two-year starter and team who have proven to be exem­MVP. The four-year monogram plary leaders and students. winner was named a first team 
Brown is an All-American and All-American this year. He has a four-time Big East indoor pole 3. 908 GPA and majors in vault champion. He has a 3.456 finance. grade point average and plans to Warford became a regular in attrnd dental school. the Irish tennis line-up this year 
Callahan, a three-year starter and helped the team to a Big and two-year captain of the East championship playing No. 5 women's lacrosse team, stands singles in the tournament. A iF,!a!-=::!!!E=!!E=!!=~===-a!!!!!5a!!!!!5a!!!!!5=::!!!--=ia!!E=!!!5:a:!!!===-~a!!!!!5a!!!!!5-ia5ii--~ 
fifth in the nation with 2.13 finance major. he earned a 3.806 assists pPr gamP. She has earned GPA. 
TEACH Ill ~ THE INNER CITY 
Do .nm want to nm·k with kids a~ nu 

imu.-r-c.·it"'·' kud1t·r , hut ~ou'rc· not an t.•dueatiou m~\jor:• • iv.a< Ii 111 umer-cit, (. ·.,thulit ,chools in ("hicdgu • ( )ppc1rturnt~· t{i t·,,nl i\1,1!.;\t'T ln l'duc.1tion .,, :\orthwn,tl'rn U111vt:"r~ity , l.l·,1rn ~htiut tht· 1wnfr~s101M} side of puhlic ~l~n ice-, \olun1t"c·riS:n1, ;uul (·ducJt1u11 with Inner-City Teaching Corps Career and Placement Srrviccs  
Wednesday, April 28 4:00-5:00 PM 116 DeRartolo Hall  


Finals...done. Graduation ... done. Packing and shipping... ugh! No problem. Call Mail Boxes Etc. 
~tJ«tS~ 
Notre Dame 
Stepan Center Basketball Courts May 3rd -8th May 12th -15th May 17th Lyons Hall May 5th -8th 
St. Mary•s College 

LeMans Hall 
Campus Hours of
Main Lobby 
Operation
May 5th -7th 
10am-5pm
May 14th 

Homes for Rent • Domus Properties has two, five; six and nine bedroom student housing available • Student neighborhoods close to campus • Security systems provided • Well maintained homes • Maintenance staff on call Available for the 1999/2000 school year Contact Kramer (219) 276-7020 or (219) 674-2571 or (219) 233-4509  

SILVER HAWKS 11 Hi<:_1h Stveet'1 Play.I' 1 hovY be(ove & 1 hovY a{tevColle~e the Ga""e WRBR will beMacAi--.e! ! bvoa~ca.l'ti.... ':l 11 Live11 {Vol"' the Cove a....~ ':livi....':l away a to.... o( fRff .l'tv((l. Sponsored by \NRBR fveythi....':l happe.... .l' to.... i']ht~TONIGHT Yov Get 1 Rerevvec-A Seat Ticket All YOv Ca"' fat f>v{{et C,-1pt" Live Mvfic {rot" ''Hi:1h Stv~ef\ (ov j.,..(o call 13S-'1'188 (6vate{vl Dear.\ Covev Ba"'<>\} www..l'ilvevhawk.1',(OI"'  

Free Pick Up
$1.00 Off 
Please call tor appointment. 
UPS Shipping (Per Box) 
Pick up is tree, but no discounts will be accepted. 
277-6245 
Corner of S.R. 23 & Ironwood• 2 Blocks East of N.D. Hours: M-F: 9am -7pm • Sat: 1Oam -6pm 

Wednesday, April 28, 1999
__________________:________:___::.::_:::_::.:_;___:.________________
The: Observer• PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
.. 
+ Campus Ministry This Week + 


OFFICE OF 
CAMPUS MlNlSTRY 
lOJ Hesbur~h Libr<1ry 631-7800 112 lfadm H;ill 
631-5242 B.isilicil Offices 
6J1-R46J Web l'ili;e: http://www.nd.edu./-ministry/ 
/ 
Thursday-Friday, April 29-30, 4:00 pm, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Attention Seniors: 
Auditions will be held for Senior Last Visit to Grotto and Commencement Mass 
Thursday, April 29, 4:00-5:0 pm, Notre Dame Room, Lafortune Student Center 
Africentric Spirituality: Freshmen Intro Year End Celebration 
Sunday, May 2, 4:00 pm, Sorin Hall Chapel 
Rejoice Black Catholic Mass 
Celebrant: Rev. D. Reginald Whitt, O.P. 
Monday-Thursday, May 3-6, 103 Hesburgh Library 
Study Break Days 
Take a break from exams and studying. Stop by and enjoy donuts and coffee, lemonade or iced tea. 
Reaching Out to the Kosovar Refugees 
Donations will be collected at Campus Ministry: 
I 03 Hesburgh Library 
112 Badin Hall 
Flex Points Program for the Homeless 
Spend the last of your Flex Points on non-perishable food items, toiletries, etc. at the Huddle Mart. Drop off at Campus Ministry: 103 Hesburgh Library or 112 Badin Hall. 
page 22 The Observer. SPORTS Wednesday, April 28, 1999 
¦ NHL 
Sabres complete sweep of Senators 
Associated Press 
BUFFALO. N.Y. 
Dominik Hasek made 40 saves. Vaclav Varada scored two goals and the l:ieventh­ranked Buffalo Sabres com­pleted a surprising playoff sweep of the No. 2 Ottawa Senators with a 4-3 victory Tuesday night. 
Hasek, who recorded a team-record fourth career playoff shutout in Sunday's 3-0 win. had his shutout streak snapped at 144 mi11utes. 55 seconds on a goal by Jason· York at 6:24 of the.second period. 
The three goals against Hasek matched the entire number scored against the two-time MVP in the series' first three games. Hasek allowed six goals on 162 shots in the series. 
With less than a minuteleft, fans tossed brooms on the ice to indicate the sweep. It was the Sabres' fourth of a best-of­7 series and the first time they completed a best-of~7 sweep at home since they ousted Boston in 1993. 
Erik Rasmussen and Alexei Zhitnik also scored for Buffalo. Shawn McEachern and Nelson Emerson scored Ottawa's other games. 
The Sabres once again smothered Ottawa's leading scorer Alexei Yashin. who fin­ished the series with no goals or assists but totaled a team­high five penalties. The Sabres' winning goal, on a slap shot . from the blue line by qefcnse­man Zhitnik. came with Yashin in the box for elbowing in the third period. 
Ottawa goaltender Ron Tugnutt. Who gave up two goals on 15 shots in tl).e first game of the series and hadn't played since, allowed tvvo goals on 11 shots in the firstperiod and finished v.ith 22 saves. 
The Senators lost in overtime 
to the Sabres in the seventh 
game of the 1997 conferoncc quarterfinals whei:1 J)erek Plante's shotfrom the blue line tore through Tugnutt's ·glove, eliminating Ottawa from its 
..... 
first-ever modern-day·.playoff 
appearance. .. ·• 
Buffalo scored twicein the 
first period and added a goal in 
the second. 
The Sabre~ OJ)j3n~d th~ SCt>r­
i:ng for thEJ fourth straight 
game in the series with the 
goal by Rasmussen. Wayne 
Primeau skated the puck· into 
the Senator( zone unmolested 
~b.d slapi)ed.Jton.JugnuJLVarada swatted at the rebound before Rasmussen poked it in at 8:29. It was the first career playoff goalNi' RasmUSS(J,r, ·Varada; ~ss~ted by ,~iQllael Peca and Dixon Ward, sco;red his first playoff goal just 1:48 later for a 2-0 lead. Varada 
cruised the slot and collected a 
pass off·the bvatdsfrofaPeca, 
and•Varada's·shot trickledln 
between Tugnutt's pads at 
10:17. 
York's.s~~ord-periodg?al
rnade ·it' :iM. Daniel Alfredsson 
left the puck; atthe top .of the 
left circle forYork, whose slap 
shot from the middle of the cir­
cJe. deflecferl in off Hasek's. 
pad, . > ·. : > . 
Buffalowtl'nt up 3-lthree minutes later on the second goal by Var(tda, who easily tapped In W~~•s pass. 
Itwas onlythe second 1,areer 
multi-goal g1.une for Va:rada, 
who scored one goal in each of 
the Sabres' three playoff series 
lnstyear, / ; .... ·. 
'McEacherrcs··second. playoff
goal -OWi.wa's first even­
strength goal of the series ­
made it 3~2 midway through 
tp.e second. ZhHnik.JlUJ the Sabres up 4-J?,;. · ··.·•··.. . . · All five regular~sea.son games between the teams went into overtime this season, with the Senators willll!tigJ-2 •··otFDec. 30'IonButraloa,tltl .the other four ending in ti~. The Sabres won the second game of the seti~sli1 double over­time befora:winning Gai;ue 3
easily. · ·.. > <.. ·. . "L• 
·The Sabres played Ga,tPe 4 
without leading scorer 
f<1irosla.v Sata.n, .who ipjured 
lil~•f9ot.Jp .~~~ ~~.co·· · me 
when he wasistrtick .. ····.· .. hot< 
by Sabres defenseman Richard 
Smehlik. 
Classes are starting now! 
Call today to reserve your seat. 
Here for the summer? 
So is Kaplan! 
We can prepare you for the August test! 
Classes start May 24th and June 15th 

1-800-KAP-TEST 

www.kaplan.com 
'MCAT Is a registered trademark of the Association of American Medical Colleges. 
60 YEARS OF BUILDING FUTURES. ONE SUCCESS STORY AT A TIME. 
College are the next two teams in the Big East rankings," said
Softball 
Rebecca Eimen. continued from page 28 "They will probably earn a 
berth in the tournament. Tlrn determine the final standings fourth spot is still prettyfor the Big East tournament. 
close." "Seton Hall and Boston 
The two conference match­
¦ NHL 
ups will conclude tlw regular season for the Irish. Thll Irish have already secured a spot in the Big East tournament that will take place May 8 and 9 in Storrs. Conn. 
The other threll spots am still undetermined. 
Unmighty Ducks exit playoffs 
Associated Press 
ANAHEIM, Calif. 
The Detroit Hed Wings took their first step toward a third consecutive NIIL title Tuesday night. completing a sweep of the Anaheim Mighty Ducks in their first-round playoff series. 
Tomas Holmstrom snapped a scoreless tie with his goal at 
16:44 of the second period. and Chris Osgood stopped 31 shots as the Red Wings beat Anaheim 3-0 to take the series in four games. 
Brendan Shanahan and Vyacheslav Kozlov added goals in the third period. 
Despite playing without high-scoring left wing Paul Kariya, out with a broken foot, and defensemen Stu Crimson and Ruslan Salei, the Mighty Ducks kept it close through the first two periods before the Red Wings finally took control. 
Holmstrom scored 24 sec­onds into a power play. with Marty Mcinnis off for slashing. Anaheim's Matt Cullen, just past the blue line in the Mighty Ducks' end. had diffi­culty controlling a pass and Holmstrom took the puck off his stick and broke up the middle. 
With Cullen desperately hanging on him, Holmstrom reached with the stick in his right hand, scooted the puck to his left and knocked in a backhander past sprawling goaltender Guy Hebert. 
The goal was llolmstrom 's third of the series and Nicklas Lidstrom, who played sparkling defense throughout the four games, chipped in with the assist, his sixth. 
Shanahan gave the Heel Wings breathing room with his third goal of the series at 
11:51 of the third period. then Kozlov scored with 5:03 left. his second goal of the playoffs. 
Osgood, meanwhile, logged the sixth playoff shutout of his career. 
Kariya sustained his injury when he blocked a shot with his right foot in Game 3 on Sunday. 
Crimson was suspended for one game checking Kris Draper into the glass from behind in Game Three, draw­ing a l1v!!-minute match penal­ty for d1diberatc attPmpt to injure. Salei sat out with a shoulder injury, 
The action was furious in the opening period. with tlrn teams combining for :HJ shots. Marty Mcinnis had four as tlw Mighty Ducks got off 1() shots at Osgood. 
Things quietnd down consid­erably in the second period, with Anaheim managing nirrn shots and the Red Wings seven. 
Detroit rinishl~d tlH1 ganH\ with 38 shots. 
The ll1~d Wings won 5-3 and 5-1 in Detroit. thlrn took tlw third 4-2 in Anaheim. 
The Mighty Ducks, who have made it to thP playoffs just twice since coming into tlw NIIL in 1993, also W<ff!J sw1ipt by Detroit in 1997. That was in the second round. and thren of the gamns went into ov<'r­time. 
Kariya had 01111 goal and three assists in thP l'irst thrnn games of the s11ries this yPar. Ile was third in the NIIL in points with 101 and third in assists with 62 during the reg­ular season. 
Observer Sports thanks Kathleen Lopez for her years of hard work. 
' ~fjaftespeare­
3n­~erformance" 
Cf)resents 
<3Jfjakespeare an ;£.ot)e 
at 94tct) 


®cSRcnna J;,a(( 
7:30 ~.m.cApnf28 Free Admission 

Wednesday, April 28, I 999 The Observer• SPORTS page 23 
¦ MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Small market fans plan protest 
Associated Pres,,;; 
KANSAS CITY. Mo. 
Wearing T-shirts that r(1ad "sharn tlrn wealth" and turning tlwir hacks cvf'ry timn tlw visi­tors bat. basr.bal! fans arc plan­ning a protHsl Friday wlwn lhe rich N1iw York YankPes play rnsh-slrnppl'd Kansas City. 
Organiz11d by radio station KC:TE, tlw prolPst is aimed al bringing attn11ti11n lo the grow­ing disparity throughout major kagu1• lmsehall hntwe11n small­and hig-marknt LPams and urg­ing-OWIH'l"S to agrn1\ to rl)V('llll('· sharing. 
KPvi11 Kietzman, sports dirm:­tor for t.hn station, said about :i,ooo pcopln had pickPd up tlwir T-shirts by Tunsrlay morn­ing and promisnd to takn part. 
"Wn plan lo fill up thn nntirn IPfl-ltcld g'Prwral admission s11c­ti1111." said KiPLzman, who got the• idNl from pm,plr. who call in to his daily sports-talk show. 
Th(• disparity L1\lwn1!n small­and larg,i-mark1it tnams has hr>1·11ml' aculP in Kansas City sinn• thP dt\ath in t 1J 1n ol' !·'.wing Kauffman. tlw hillionairn 
who founded the tliam and lav­ished rnonoy on it. The Hoyals, whose payroll is down to around $24 million, were 0-10 last suason against a Yankees tnam with a payroll of more 
'WE 
ARE NOT THERE 
TO BASH THE 
YANKEES. THESE PEOPLE: 
ARE PASSIONATE ABOUT 
BASEBALL' 
KEVIN KIETZMAN KCTE SPORTS DIRECTOR 
than $(15 million. 
Kietzman said Urn Yankees will make around $500,000 in radio and tr.lovision rights foes l'or Friday's gamn while tlrn Hoyals get around $25,000. 
"We am not tlrnrc lo bash tlrn Yankens," said Kiet.zman. "Thcsn pnoplr. are passionate about baseball. They want to prottict basi\ball." 
Thr. group plans to wave dol­lar bills al the Yanknes players as they walk into the stadium, 
GOl'Jt, TV A \/flli cnn C,\R[(R I, rucrnc~r ScRVICCS CM, 1rHr YCU Fll,/V ()Tlf(l1 11,!J, 11V,OS GOING f() fllf S.Vlf 

then line up early to buy scats in the left field general admis­sion section. 
"We're hopeful we'll have left field all to ourselves." Kintzman said. 
The T-shirts will have "We love the Royals "on the front and "Share·th11 wealth" on the back. Every time the Yankees come to bat. group members plan to turn their backs to the field. After tlrn third inning, tlwy'll all get up and tape skele­tons to their seats with signs that say, "Small markets are dying." 
Then they plan lo walk out of the stadium, cross Interstate 70 to the Adams Mark Hotel and watch tho rest of the game on t,~hwision. 
The Royals are not involved in the protest. 
"Our position is we're not 1rndorsing it and we 're not against it," said Mike Levy, vice president for marketing and communications. "Wn just want to make sure everyone is safe. We'll be prepared for additional people in that general admis­sions area." 
¦ SPORTS BRIEFS 
The Michiana Soccer Association is now taking player registrations for this summer's adult co-ed soccer league. All players over 18 are encouraged to register by May 3. The season will start May 20 and end August 
5. The cost Is $65 for new players and $50 for return­ing players. Call 233-6080 ex. 301 for more informa­tion. To receive an applica~ tion, leave a name and mail­ing address at the listed phone number. 
LAST CHANCE TO PICKUP YOUR 1999 

YEARBOOK 
Forget to pick up your Dome???? * Come to Room 108 LaFortune * Thurs. and Fri. April 29 & 30 
Thurs. and Fri. May 6 & 7 Thurs. and Fri. May 13 & 14 Hours 12-5 PM Questions???? Call 1-7524 
Three Irish athletes named All-Americans 
Special tq The O~~rver 
' Men's soccer defenseman Phil Murphy, hockey goalie J::orrest Karr and wo.men·s soccer player Jenny Streiffer were selected Acndemit All­Amoricar;is for the 1999 GTE/CoSIDA Fall/Winter At• Large Program. 
Murphy and Karr, named for the first time in their careers, copped first-team and second-team honors, respectively, while Streiffer, a first-team honoree in 1998 was a second team selecUon this year. The trio becomes the first three Irish studont­athletes for the 1998·99 school year to en.rn Academic AllMAmerica acco, la.des. 
Murphy, recently named one of five senior recipients for the prestigious Kanaley Award, is a two-time hon­nree of tho Notre Dame National Monogram Club MVP. A four-year letterwin· ner and two-year starter, he owns a 3.908 grade point average and will graduate in May with a degree in finance from the College of Business 
·Administration. 
A member or the Dean's List all seven semesters he has been at Notre Dame, he becomes the third lrjsh men's soccer player to gar­ner Academic All-America honors -Chris Dean was a second-team honoree in 1995 and Ryan Turners was a third-team selection in 1998. 
Murphy started all 18 games for the Irish on defense and was the team's top marking back as ho anchored a defense that allowed just 20 goals and recorded five shutouts. One of team's co-captains on a squad which finished with a 9-3-8 record in '98, he was a starter for the Irish in each of his last two seasons. 
Karr owns a 3.73 grade point average as a finance major in the College of Business and is a six-time Dean's List honoree. His appearance on the fall and winter at-large team marks the third consecutive year an 
Irish  hockey  player  has  
claimed  Academic  All­ 
America honors.  

Karr started all 38 games for Notre Dame as the Irish linished the campaign with a 19-14-5 record. He recorded a school-record 2.58 goals against average and his .899 savo percentage this season is the third best in school history. Karr's 2.92 career goals against average and .888 career save percentage are the best. in the program's history. 
The Irish goalie finished the regular season ranked 
third  in  the  Central  
Collegiate  Hockey  
Association  with  a  2 .27  

goals-against average in con• ference games. Karr was the only CCHA goaltcndcn to start every game for his team during the regular s,,a. son while logging 95 percent of the team's minutes. His season highlights includ.ed oarning two CCHA "defensive player of the week" awards while posting a 4-4-3 record V(~rsus teams rank{id in the national top 10. 
Karr also is the first Notre Dame goaltender to post two solo shutouts in the same season and allowed three or fower goals in 19 of his final 21 outings. 
Streiffer has a 3.46 grade point average and is enrolled in the College of Arts and Letters with a triple major in biology, anthropology and philosophy. Last season, Streiffer helped Notre Dame win its fourth consecutive Big East championship and qualify for the NCAA champi­onship for the sixth straight year as the Irish advanced to the quarterfinals and fin­ished as the fourth-ranked team in the country. 
During the 1998 season. the Irish forward b1Jcame just the eighth player in NCAA women's soccer histo­ry to score at least 50 goals and record at least 50 assists in a career. In 74 games she has played, Strniffer scored 51 goals and dished off 56 assists for 156 career points. 
Streiffer's selection marks the fourth consecutive year the Notre Dame women's soccer team has placed a player on the GTE/CoSIDA Academic All-America list. .Jen Renola and Amy VanLaeckc were second­team selections in 1995, and then both earned first-team honors as seniors ii. 1996 with Renola being voted Academic A11-Arnerican of' the Year. 

'-Happy 21st cfo Our Systems ~trnscr. ~ve. lD, ~~ S: a11d C. 
-
...... 
Page 24 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, April 28, 1999 
Andersen Consulting is pleased to announce that the following University of Notre Dame graduates have accepted positions with our organization: 
Susan M. Affleck-Graves B.A., Psychology/CAPP 
Cincinnati 
Emily S. Block B.A., HR Management/CAPP 
Chicago 
Sergio DeHoyos 
B.A., Government/CAPP 
Chicago 
Michael T. Doyle B.B.A., MIS 
Milwaukee 
Goran Gavran 
B.B.A., Finance 
Chicago 
Paula R. Gruby B.A., Spanish 
New York 
Kelly A. Hanratty B.S., Computer Science 
Chicago 
Bryan Huarte B.B.A., Finance/CAPP 
Northern California 
John S. Kenny B.S., Biochemistry 
Chicago 
Michael D. Kinninger 
B.B.A., Finance/International Business 
Chicago 
Wi II iam J. Klish B.S., Computer Science 
Chicago 
Julie E. Metro B.S., Science-Business 
Chicago 
S. Janine Murphy B.B.A., HR Management 
Chicago 
Kelly C. O'Donnell B.B.A., MIS/Sociology 
New York 
Christopher Patka B.B.A., Business/HR Management 
Atlanta 
Beatrice A. Przybysz B.B.A., Management/Psychology 
Chicago 
Gregory J. Szi Iier B.B.A., Marketing 
Hartford 
Stephanie L. Thomas B.A., Liberal Studies 
Cleveland 
Christina A. Tonin B.S., Science-Business 
Chicago 
Juliana M. Vodicka B.A., English/Theology 
Chicago 
We would also like to welcome the following Interns to Chicago this summer: 
Meg Bowman Kyle Capshaw 
Visit our Web site at www.ac.com 
Michelle Mendoza Heather Zolak 

Andersen Consulting 

Wt·d1wsday, April 28, 1999 The Observer • SPORTS page 25 
¦ WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
• 
Third season ends with win, optimism for 2000 
By GENE HRTALIK Spurr, Writer 
As tlw clock ran down and the horn so1111dml on Saturday, tlw Notrn l>anrn women's la<:ross,• tPam k1ww LlinL this S<'ason was just a stepping ston,, for tlw grealnnss that is to cnnrn to this program. 
Firstly, limy won tlwir last gamo, 01rnhling I.hem to a rt~cord ninth win on the sea­son. Secondly, their loading goal scorer Lael ()'~haughnnssy finished hnr sophomore Sflason with 50 goals -tlw most hy an Irish playm·. Finally, tlw tnam r11un<l out that it could play with the upper-echelon teams or women's lacrosso, bncuuse as 
coach Tracy C:oyrw said, "Wlwn wo arn focused, wn can play will! anybody." 
This past Wt!nkt1ncl. the team travnlncl to Ilarvard to take on Ivy l.1:agtw oppotH\nts llarvnrd ancl Columbia. Although thn tHalll failnd to pick up two wins, Coyrw was pliiasnd with 
1111' wn1\kP1HI. On l;riday, llw Irish, huping to l'tHI (hPir ll1rp1•-gamn losing 
streak. tnok on the Crimson. Notrn Damn scored early, pick­ing up the first two goals of the gume. but llurvard answernd with throe consecutive goals. Kerrv Callahan tied the score up at thrPe. 
llarvard !hen used back-to­back goals to take thn lead before trading goals with tlrn Irish to enter the half' loading, 8-5. 
The Crimson outscored the Irish in the s11cond half 7-5 and won the gamn 15-10, dropping the Irish to 8-6 on thn year. 
"llarvard was a good team an<l I thought we wern pre­pared. hut we just didn't score in transition," Coyne said, "They were Urn most aggrns­sivn team we have played and it prnvnnlr.d us from going to goal." 
Thn team was back in action Saturday a!{ainst Uw Columbia Lions. The Irish playr,d hard in a tight half' to l1md 4-:i at half­timn. A <J-2 scoring spree in the last JO minutes o/' the game rns11ltPd in a 13-!i win and improved Notre Dame's rncord l.o <J-(,. Leading all scor­
ors for the Irish was Kathryn I.am. Lam who plays defense on the team exploded for four 
goals and  an  assist against  
Columbia.  
"If there  was  <!ne game  we  

wanted to w111. it was Columbia," said Coyne. "It is always good to beat someone we focused on defoating this year." 
The final horn signaled something else besides the end or the game on Saturday; it signaled the end or the careers of both Callahan and Megan Schmitt. The only upperclass­men led the team by improving their games and serving as mentors to the sophomores and freshmen. 
"Kerry and Megan did an outstanding job this year as they each were on an opposite end of the field," Coyne said, "Callahan was a very balanced player this year. She had good vision but could also take it to goal. We were very happy with Megan's µlay. Often times her big stop on tlrn d11fonsive nnd would result in a goal for us on tlrn other end." 
"Definitely hurts when you 
Notre Dame Council on International Business Development CONGRATULATES Summer 1999 Interns Nicole Murphy Credit Suisse Regina Wakerly Credit Suisse Kristin Waller Bank of Ireland ­Belfast Tim Noonan H.J. Heinz Danelle Adams Waterford Crystal Sara Vance Waterford Crystal Joe Ribando Bank of Ireland ­Dublin Jessica Harstern Bank of Ireland ­Dublin Meagan Burton Alex Atwood Jane Sarson First financial Jaclyn Brickman ABB Adrian Wilkerson Estonia A&C Conor Murphy Student Union-Belfast Matt Budde Honeywell Scott Giuliani Bank of Estonia Matt Griffith Estonia A & C Belmarie Estevez Baxter Steve Brunson Estonia Inv. Agency  



-
-
0 

THE HARDEST DECISION YOU'LL EVER MAKE. 
R1~ht 11<•\\' ,It llurg,·r Kini.:' 1Ysl.1ur,1nts, ynu c;ui get ;1 k;c;,·n,hry \VI-H)Pl'ER' 11 r d1·l1111111, Ill(; KIN(;' s;111dw1,·h. 1,lus nwdwm fries and:., SP(t drink, fc,r onlv ~2. 1/ll. \:, •\\ ,w hll"W JI·· li.11d to, hor,.st: hct wc·rn tht' \\' f!()I' I' I:){' ;111d lilt' BH; K JN( ;_' 1'1H I ht nk <,I 1l t h1~ w;1y; E1tlwr w;iy. y11u ,·,lll·t go \\'l'Ul1l( 
BURGER 
KING 
It just tastes better. 
loose two starters," O'Shaughnessy added. "Kerry is very consistent, and Megan was a good leader on the defensive end." 
Callahan graduates holding the record for consncutive games with a goal ut 29 and scored in 36 of her 37 career gamns. She will end the season among the leaders in points per game and assists per game. 
Callahan brought the who!<! package to the field, when she wasn't scoring, she was direct­ing the troops on the field and distributing crisp passes. She closed the season with 32 goals and 35 assists for a total of (,7 points. 
Schmitt, on the other hand, was known for her rlefensivn pruwnss. On the field, Schmitt taught the younger playnrs around her how to mark their man und covered the net for goalie Carrie Marshall when Marshall stepped out to makn 
a savn. 
With Schmitt anrl Call:1ha11 graduating, leadership respon­sibilities fall on the shoulders of O'Shaughnessy and her classmates. 
"We are ready to stnp in and be the leaders of this team," slrn said. "Nnxt yMr is like all the other years -a growing year for the program. Totally different things will h11 brought on to us, and if we hang on we can get better and better and 
possibly he ranked." 
Callahan and Coyne agreed. 
"The current sophomortis have two years now to be team leaders, this is their opportuni­ty to take aclvantagn and accomplish a lot for tlw pro­gram," Callahan said. "Next year could be the breakout year for tlrn program bncause we have already taken the steps to prove we can compete. Wo were on the brink of beat­ing those ranked teams and next year we can do it." 
"This is just anotlrnr stage in our program and the sopho­mores are ready to lead," added Coyne. "They were the first recruiting class and havn madn a commitmnnt to tho program ln makn it nationally rnspectcd. The girls love it hern and are all good role models." 

page 26 The Observer• SPORTS 
¦ MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Schmidt guns down Braves, Bucs win 5-3 
¦ MF.N's LACROSSE
" 
Dusseau earns league honors 
Special toThe Observer 
Chris Dusscau, who scored a canwr-high six goals in lead­ing the 13th-ranked Notre DamP men's lacrosse team to a 9-7 victory at Massachusetts on Saturd°ay was namrd the Great Western Lacrosse League playnr of the week for the second timo this season. 
It is tlrn l'ourth time this sea­son that an Irish playM has carnml the honor. 
Dusseau, who also was named the IC'ague's player of the week following Notre Danw's win over Ilobart in late March, tied tlrn school mark f'or mosl goals scur<'d by an Irish play<'r in a road c:mt.~,st. Ile scored Notrl' Danrn s l1rsl !'our goals of tho contest as the Irish beat tlw Minuttimen f'or the lirst time in live outings. 
The senior co-captain leads the team in goals scored with 29, tying his singlo-season career-highs during his fresh­man and sophomore seasons. four campaign, and his 111 list. He is tied for eighth in Dusseau has led Notrn Dame goals places him third on the career scoring with 122 career in goals scornd in each of his all-time career goals scored points. 

¦ rJBA 
Payton scores 30, Seattle wins 
Associated Press 86-83 and Dale Ellis of the footer and Malone missed a a. Sonics missed two free throw point attempt in the final sec­SEATTLE attempts with 20 seconds on onds. 
Gary Payton scored 30 points the clock. Payton, who was 2-for-11 in and the Seattle SuperSonics Bryon Russell of the .Jazz Utah on Sunday, shot 10-for-20 moved into a tie with idle mado two free throws with 16 from the field and 8-for-10 Minnesota for the eighth -seconds left after being fouled from the free throw line and f'inal -playoff spot in the by Von Maclean to cut Tuesday. He also had eight Western Conference with a 90-Seattle's lead to 86-85. But assists and foul steals -and a 
8:i victory over the Utah Jazz Schremp[, after being fouled by temper tantrum. on Tuesday night. Bussell, made two free throws Payton's volatile display 
Th" Timberwolves own llw with 15 seconds to go. helped the Jazz cut their deficit tiebreaker with Seattle because Schrempf added two free from 18 points -41-23 -to they won two out of three from throws with 9.6 seconds left eight before MacLcan drove the Sonics this season. after again being fouled by the key and made a fivo-foot 
Detlcf Schrcmpf hit four rru­Bussell. shot at the buzzer to give cial free throws for the Sonics The Sonics, with five games Seattle a 45-35 lfrnd at hall'­over the final I:i seconds. remaining, improved its record timc. 
Payton bounced back aftnr to 22-23, the samn as tlrn srnring five points in a 17-point Timberwolves. Seattle is at defeat in Salt Lake City on Porlland and Minnesota is al Sunday. The .Jazz, playing tlrnir home against Phoenix on third game in as many days, Wednesday night lost their second in a row. Sar,ramento, the No. 7 team 
I. : I I
Karl Malone scored nine of in the Western Conforenr.c his 29 points in the fourth playoff race, beat San Antonio quarter, but Utah could not 104-100 Tuesday night to oven 
quite catch up after S1rnttlo its record at 23-23. went up by 19 points after one Schrempf and Hersey _,.. . quarter and led by 24 twice in I lawkins each added 18 points the second quarter. for the Sonics. Malone's layup with 21 sec­John Stockton, who had 18
-onds to go cul Seattle's lead to points for Utah, missed a 17­
-·f!i­
SAINT 
MARY'S 
COLLEGE 
NOTRE DAME, IN 
ENO OF THE 
Associated Prus 
ATLANTA 
Phtsburgh's Jason Schmidt pitched ~even solid innings and heat his former team when the Pirates scored three runs in the fi..ighth. rallying for a 5-3 victory over the Atlanta Braves on T\11'.\sday night. 
Schmidt (3-1), who was 1-3 
· with a 6.30 ERA against the Braves since they dealt him to Pittsburgh three years ago, allowod Six hits and three runs, then got credit for the win when his tt:Htmmates came through at the plate. 
Mike Benjamin led off the eighth with a walk against Odalls Perez [0-1). stole second and scored the tying run when pinch-hitter Keith Osik, batting for Schmidt, singled up the middle. 
Osik was thrown out trying to go to socond and Perez struck out Adrian Brown. But the young left-hander couldn't get thP. third out as Pat Meares punched a single to right and Brian Giles walked. 
Perez was replaced by Rudy Seanez, who promptly gave up consecutive run-scoring singlos to Kevin Young and Jason Kendall to put the Pirates ahead. 
Mike Williams pitched thn ninth for his third save as Pittsburgh broke a four-game losing strnak. 
Perez was in line to pick up his first major league win when ho took a 3-1 lead to seventh. But the Pirates cut the margit) in half when Kevin Young dou­bled and scored on Ed Sprague's sacrifice fly. 
The Braves broke a 1-1 tie with two runs in the sixth. Tlmie straight singles to begin tho inning culminated with Chipper Jones' run-scoring hit up the middle. 
The Pirates had a chance to get out of the inning after Brian Jordan flied out. to left. But third baseman Sprague squan• dered an almost certain double play when he made an errant throw to second, the ball sailing into right field while Bret Boone scored. 

Sllve• Rmd& 1,ouofJewelq SllveP 'l'oe Rllld& Lob of Acce&&oPle& SaPOud& fltom BaD IDceuse mnslou Necklace& ...BDcl mncb IRON Bind lmp.,rtenl Incredible Prlcesl 
Proceeds help fund the education of 4 Guatemalan children. 
Donations Welcome' 
tal'erftlne RNm 108 (near pbenu) 

ilYO~-­
--.-. ER ! 
·.:,: __~•:·-.. -~...... 
'..1-,. 
-
Getting a year's worth of stuff into a car i~ like trying to RYDER cram 10 pounds into a S•pound sack. You ve crammed nrs enough for a while. Give yourself a brc~k-
YEAR MASS! www.yellowtruck.com
Call Ryder and truck it-at the nght pnce. 
Advanced reservation required. Present this coupon at the time of your rental.
Sunday, May 2, 1'>9'> r , 
I Coupon only applicable to basic rate of truck rental, which does not include I taxes, fuel and optional Items. One coupon per rental. Coupo_n subject l? truck
0% availability and Ryder Moving Services standard rental req111rcments. Coupon sio:9:00 PM I expires December 31, 2000.
I Coupon not valid with any other offer, discount or promotion. Off I
Church of Our Lady of Loretto 
1 g~:~:~ 1-800-GO-RYDER J:;:~ 1
I Moves Ryder" is a reglsterrd trademark of Ryder System, Inc. and is used under license. I
There will be NO masses in the 
I Note to Dealer: L Enter discount on rates screen. 2. Enter Coupon I.D. on payment screen. NC030 residence halls May 2nd. L 3. Attach to rental agreement and send in with weekly report. RA Number______ .J 
Wednesday, April 28, 1999 The Observer• TODAY page 27 
SLURRED SPEECH 
FOXTROT 
DILBERT 
A.LICE., 'i'OU'O GET MORE ACCOM.PLISHED IF '<OU 
CROSSWORD 
34"--Witha View" t Airline founded 
ACROSS 
35 WhFe cold cuts 
In 1927 
are cut &Garden 
36 "This --fair!" smoother 
40 Popular 10 Bygone Mideast basketball shoe leader 
43 Midleg point 14 D-Day beach 44 Rudely abrupt t5 "Make it quick I" 45 Escape 
detection of
16 Showed up 46 Expire
17 "Look who just showed up!" 47 Eagle's home 
48 Pitcher Hideo 20 Uncle of rice Nome'sfame birthplace21 Court game 52 Popular oil 22 Cluckhead additive 
25 Marooned 54 "Spy vs. Spy"motorist's need magazine 
21 Scouting job 55 Intern in the 28 • Gras news 59 Spooky sighting 
30 Perpendicular to the keel 61 Rutgers. e.g. 
DAN SULUVAN 

BILL AMEND 

SCOTr ADAMS 
I'VE ASKED W~LL\' WHEN OLD ~P~TI-W TO WORK WITH A.ND LOW STANDI\ROS BECOME POSITIVE.
TO TEACH 
TRAIT$?
HOW TO BE 
PERFECT. ) I CALL IT Tl-IE INTRAPRENE.UR­IAL SPIRIT. 
l 
66 Raison d'-­
67 Numbskull 
68 Blast from the past 
69 Drifts off 
10 Leave be 71 Thugs 
DOWN 
1 Not neg. 2 Sound booster 3 Highland 
negative 4 Captain of the Pequod 5 Provide {for). in a schedule 6 "A Yank in the -"(1941 war 
fifrn) 7 Regarding e Actress Madeline 9 Fencer's blade 
10 Public row 


ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 11 Ruinous 
Puzzle by Brendan Emmett Quigley 
damage A C T E L I A R M E L T 5 12 Protein building 
32 Delights M A I l U R G E I D E A L block 33 Do poorly A S T I C O O N L I 13 Her face 36 Castaway's spot s T A N -'=-+;..;+::-11ii.,.. launched a 49Brawl 
50 0. Henry, in the 
literary world 51 Toys with tails 


37 --und Orang
thousand ships 53 Wed. preceder 38 Gymnast 
56 Brewski Comaneci 
57 Shoelace 39 In a corner problem
22 Impact sound 41 Company with a
23 Baseball's Hank 
58 Cry of pain 60 1993 peace accord city 62 November 
honoree 63 Joining words 64 Food container 65 "Right" 
YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 28, 199q 
CILEIIIUTIES llORN ON Tlll'i llAY: l,11· l,·11,1, Ann-Margn·I. Sad ­d,1111 I lll'·, ...t.•in, M.1rl'i,1 Str;iss111.m 
ll.1ppy llirthd,,y: NPth111i-; will '-.\.ll\d 111 \'Wlr \\'cl\' if \'()U -.L,rt dw h.1II 1Plllllg Y1n1 h,1,·,· ,~·h,,r it 1,,h,_., to !ll,11..i' lhing..., h,,pFwn. '-ll do11·1 ju..,t d1\·,1111 ,1bou1 \'lH1r dt•~i1'l'S. t:(, alter tlwm ,t1u h.n l' tlw l'l'H'q..;y ,1nd tlw l'llllu1-.1,h111 tu f,l(l' 11n,· (h\1ll1.·ngl' lw.1d-1111 .1nd t\, ,Kqwre th'-· sun:1..•ss lh,\t t,l'\·kn11:-. \'llll. This Citll bt· iHl l'\rtl111g Yl'clr ii you're willing to put lmth till' ell or I to m,1k~ ii so. Y11t1r 1111111ber~: J.l I7. l'l, 25, 31. )3 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Us,• , Dllr t.•m·q~r ln start thnst1 rh~ngl'"' n1u'\'l' lw4.•n plan11111g for your hrnrn.• h1cw, on plP,1sin~ tho~· ~1ou lovt1. Bt• "'rt' to ·"~ /or IIH'tf hdp l11v1I<' 
trit.md_., ll\'PI' to st>i:i.,Hzc.,. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): K,·t"p ,·our -n1111pla111t::; ,1bout vour matt• to 1·,111r,clt. Fiw11ds and relatives will n,,t ,1gn:'l1 with your point of vie,"'· You tlll' 1ikl11~, to gL1t a.n eartul about \ tHlr ,1w11 ~IH1rk·l1ming-s 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't ,:l'I 111\'l 1l\'cd 111 otlwr pt.'t,ple's F,erson· .1\ nt· tm,111n,1I 111.:tltl'rs Connmtr.ilC' on n•ur own prPhl,•ms ftrsl. Childn•n m.,y net..1d your help. Do wh~t£'ver ,•ou L,11'1 to makC:" things c,,1sier for lh,•111 00000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You h1H't' 111 Id vt,ur rn.1k knov\' t.~~actl\' liow ~·nu fl'~·I VoiLl' ypur complaint's ,nslt·,,d ol IL"lti11g vour hostiltl)' gniw YoL1 (,111 mal-.l~ hl'tldwa\ if vou work ~11, ht1n1l•-i111~1rt1Vl.'llll'lll Projt•ct~. 00 
1[0 (July 23-Aug. 22): SuddPn l hangt..•~ rt1 gilrd1ng fril1 ndsh1ps \\'Ill Jp;.n•e rnu feeling empt.\' l k 1cidl' ii vuu were tl1t1 01w ,1t fault. ( "h,11h:-t•s ,l.rt1 y1>u wt.•rt.• pushing your 11p111H1r1:-., You may \vant to make sonw ,1polog1.-, 0000 
VIRGO (Aull-23-Serl. 22): llt•,·,•1'· lum conc."t'rn111g lrit.1nd'-or 1'111ldrL1 11 \\'ill l\lllSt' m,11or turmrnl l,u \'ntL 1)11 not ll'nd or borruw llHHll'~· ot l·'tl~~l''-. '->Ion~. Mt..•mh<'r~hip-. w,H t ,t1../ ,·c111 dP.1rlv 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 2l-Orl. 221: l'dt1 ,~gl) probh.•m, will lt•,1d lo ·"l~uirwnl~ ,u,d is\1l,1tio11 h11,1n(i,1I ~pn ul11!Hm with familv 1rn.·mb~•r~ l,, d,•.,,,. lril·nd:, shm1ld not lw rnnstdcn,d D11 1h111g, on your own fur tlw tmw bcmg 000 
SCORPIO (Cht. 23-Nov. 21): You·11 be on till' llHlVt' tnd,11 lr,wd will lt.»ad you 11110 1ww h:rnhlr~· En10~· the changL1 ol pal.·P, t1xpt..•ct tlw u1w-,..­pech:d, and lit.· n•,1dy to USt' ,·ow· ,1i.•1t when dealinf\ with otlu'rs 000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-lJec. 211: )'lH1 will h~wt,'I, to bud~L1l ,, littk· bL•th•r If you wanl lo kL•t.•p vour tinann.,~ i" ord,·r. Look 11110 wais of bnng1ng 111 1•xtra cash. You mav want In look into long·lenn inve5tm,;nb 0000 
CAPRICORN (Dec 22·1a11. 19): Trr In be u11dcrst,1nd111g ,llld don"I 1udi;e otlwrs lo,, <]UKkly Yo11·11 lw L'tmfus.Pd n.'g,irding your prt•s1•n! rt1l.1· l1onsh1p. It's 11m1• lo 1,,kl' ,, look .11 vour futun..1 ,rnd dt1lPrn111w wh.-11 ,·our intenhons ar<' 00 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-fl'l,. 18): l\1l vc..,ur f.'fforts mto vour work. You ..:,Hl get ah~ad if you 1'rntii1lt' ~•l1ur crL1 r1livt.• ideas in \'vars thdt will im.Tl'd5t.' vour productiviti Don't 1,,1 1·our d1mi<•sllr conCl.'rns intl'rfl'fl' \V1th vour r,lrL'L'r 
00000 ­
PISCES (feh. 19-March 201: L,,,,,. wtll unfold 111 ihe strangt>sl way,. IJ011·1 he~1lale lo mix bus111~ss with pleasure. Your prolesston,11 talents will bt.1 ven· attrai:tivt1 lo pott.1 1111.11 lm'l'CS. 000 
Birthday Baby: You haw a wav of putting ewrvonc arnund vou ,,1 t',b<' You ,m• peacetul, ge,wrous and empathetic. You stri\•e to obtain tlw h,1rn10111· 1h,,1 will mak,• you happy ~nd will not tolerate thos,• who are contmuallv ~lir· rin~ 11,, trouble 
¦ OF INTEREST 
The Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra will present 
its Spring Concert Thursday at 8 p.m. in Washington 
Hall. The concert features two winners of the 1998-99 
Music Department Concerto Competition, Andrew 
Jones and Jacqueline Schmidt. Stravinsky's Suito from 
"The Firebird'' will also be featured. The concert is 
free and open to the public. Please call 631-6201 for 
more information, 
Teach in the Inner City workshop: Non-enducation 
majors interested in working with kids in the inner­
city should come to this workshop today at 4 p.m. in 
Debartolo 116. 
Seniors planning post-graduate service work are 
invited to sign up for the Senior Volunteer Send-off. 
The send-off will be held the Saturday afler gradua­
tion at 10 a.m. in Washington Hall. Please sign up in 
the Center for Social Concerns this week. 
Graduate Student Union needs a graduate student 
to coordinate GSU Orientation events from August 21 • 
28. Please call Jo Blacketor at 631-6963 or e-mail GSU.1@nd.edu 
Graduate Student Paul Thornock will present a solo 
organ recital today at 8: 15 p.m. in the Basilica of the 
Sacred Heart. The program will include works by 
Buxtehude, Howells, Bach and Vierne. The recital is 
free and open to the public. Please call 631-6201 for 
more information. 
Graduate Student Tao-Wen Annie Cheng will pre­
sent a solo cello recital today at 3 p.m. in th,~ 
Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum of Art. 
Graduate student Juan Li will accompany on the piano 
and freshman Andrew Jones will accompany on the 
violin. The program will include works by Chopin, 
Tchaikovsky and Martinu. The recital is free and open 
to the public. Please call 631-6201 for more informa­
tion. 
Study Break with the Leprechaun in the Notre Dame room of LaFortune is this Friday from 12 p.m. to 
1:30 p.m. Frefl food will bfl available. 
The Observer congratulates all its senior staff members on their graduations. 
Softball 
vs. St. John's Saturday, May 1 11:00am (2) 
Q]) Q]) Q]) Q]) 
vs. Seton Hall Sunday, May 2 11:00am (2) 
.. 
• 
-

Honored 1'.tLletes 
¦ Five Irish athletes win the prestigious Byron 
,. 
Kanaley award. 
p.20
PORTS 
page 28 OBSERVER Wednesday, April 28, 1999 
¦ BASEBALL 
Irish put out Flames 3-1 in rain-shortened victory 
McKeown shuts down UIC offense in five 
Special to The Observer 
Senior left-hander Chris McKeown tossed five solid innings while little-used freshman designated hitter 
Ken Ml~yer 
del.ivNed the
• 
derisive hit, as Notre 
I) a m e downed vis­iting Illinois­Chicago, 3­
l. in a rain-~--~--~ s h o r t e n e d McKeown g a m c Tuesday night. 
The Irish home game was halted in the bottom of the fifth inning due to a steady downpour and was ruled an official game at 9:10 p.m. 
Notre Damp (33-10) improved to 18-2 at home whil1, continuing to win the close games. The Irish are 15­3 in games decided by 1-2 runs this season, including wins in each of their last 14 close decisions. The Irish have won eight one-run games this season, in addition to seven by two runs, nine by three runs, five by four runs and just four by five-plus runs. 
McKeown (3-11 lowered his season EHA to 3.93. allowing one run on three hits and one walk over the l'ive innings, with three strikeouts and six groundouts. The veteran lefty has allowed just two earned runs in his last four outings, 
¦ MHJ'S GOLF 
spanning 14 and 2/3 innings. 
Illinois Chicago (] 0-24) sur­renden'ld an unearned run in tho first inning and then tried to rally in the fifth, plating one run before the game was suspended prior lo the bottom or the inning. Junior right­hander Brad Goehbert (0-3) took the loss, allowing three runs on seven hits and one walk over four innings. 
The Irish opened the scoring with a run in the J'irst. freshman center fir.Ider SteYe Stanlr.y reached after his learloff groundbal! scooted under the glove of first base­man Jason Hughes. Freshman catcher Paul O'Toolc then sent a single to center field, with Stanley scooting to third base, before junior second baseman Alec Porzel deliv­('l'e<I a first-pitch single up the middle. 
Notre Dame added two runs in the fourth, sparked by con­secutive infield singles to the second baseman by junior leftfielder Matt Nussbaum and junior first baseman Jeff Felker. The runners then moved up on Goebbert's one­out wild pitch before Meyer delivered a full-count, two­run single up the middle. Meyer-who also doubled earli­er in the game-was making just his second start of the season, with one hit in nine previous at-bats. 
The Flames averted the shutout in the fifth. Sean McNichols drew a leadoff walk and beat an attempted pickoff play by sliding safely into second base. Pete Lotus followedwith a single to left field and Eric Duke plated the run with a groundnut to third base. 
Team shoots record 866 
By GENE BRTALIK total of 214 and tied Kent for 15th 
Spores Writer place. 
-
-=----------------Senior Brad Hardin followed behind 
Locked in a battle for the team's first NCAA tournament bid since 1966. the men's golf team shot a team record 866 at the Kent Intercollegiate only to finish seventh. 
The 866 is the best 54-hole score for the Notre Dame golf team since play was shifted to stroke play in 1966. 
The Irish entered the final day in ninth plar,e, trailing first-

place Kent by 12 Kent strokes. On the last day, they pulled together to make a run at. a first.-plar.e finish. 
Despite shooting a four over 284, the Irish only managed to move up two spots and ended the day in sev­enth place. 
Leading the charge for the lrish was senior Willie Kent who carded a 70 only tu be matched for the third straight round by teammate Todd Vernon who recorded a three day 
SPORTS 
Kent and Vernon on the third day, shooting a 1 over 71 for a three-day total of 218 -two strokes ahead of teammate Jeff Connell. 
Hemarkablv the team did not use a score under·75 for the three rounds and its lowest individual score on the third day was a 73. Kent and Vernon's three-round total of 214 was the third best 54-hole score in Irish history in relation to score. It is only five strokes behind Connell's 209 last spring at the Marshall Invitation anti two strokes behind his 212 earlier this spring at the Kentucky Invitational. 
Overall the team led the tournament with 36 birdies. while Willie Kent was second overall witb 10 birdies over the three rounds. 
K1rnt now leads the team in spring average and overall average with a 
74.24 and a 74.57 while Hardin trails Kent with a 74.29 and 74.57. These two seniors lead the team into its final regular season meet May 8 and 9 at the Michigan Invitational. 

Leftfielder Matt Nussbaurn's infield single in the fourth inning of last night's victory over Illinois-Chicago sparked the decesive two-run inning. 
Ill SOFTBALL 

ND falls to IUPUI in 11 

TheJrishJ~~t th~ir second ga'tlle in 11 inni hi~ we~k. dropping .a 2·1 deci.si.n .the visltlpg .Jaguars of 
•IUPUl.< , . .. ·.. . '' 
The Ja~uars.. s92re1on.a bases~ loaded wild pitch iri -the top of the 11th i~nj11~ at.Iyy fie~f to de(eat }jotre
Dame; IUPULimproves to 23-20 on the season, and theJrish drop to 34. 
.18. ,, :if>' ...·.•• ·.. .. . . Nm•, 
]'heit'Yo.te~;ns•.... pl.aye•d.....ll,.••...!lCO,J.'..flle?!lci~et\mt{tlhe ninlh hnhig of the game.. \• The,•J~gµar.s g-qt on the•poard' first \.Vliei:1'Megan Fultz roached on an error anJkt}1~11,s·{J>le ~ecp,ndJ:,ase, . Catcher A~riennc Hondrick .then dou• bli.d,. EiC;O~i.~g·Fu.Iµ.{f,?m;~•~cor,d•tQ give.. 
IOPUlthe onertml~ad, •·· ·.. ··..•.•.• .· .....·.·· ..•·Th~.·(Pisij fqµil{et~P: .with·tj(} oµts·in the bott<H~ half o( the .nhlgl in11in~, wll.t'ln~·M~v:fQµ\ingtpff.·~hr,~\t;on~ec:tt, 
tive pitche§, K~thl¢en Ho~g ?rove a l~ 
2 pitc;h for, a>doUj1'le,\,Tl).e dQU ble scor~u·~a~\J-h J<ir}fpa11froµi .. s~~on~ 
. base•· .. and .iJ:dvan~.a.,:;ihetgwcnefurthef. 
into extra innings. 
Two innings later, Fultz singled, stole second again and advanced to third on a wild pitch by Irish pitcher Jennifer Sharron. She eventually scored on another wild pitch by Sharron to give IUPUI a 2-1 lead head­ing into the bottom of the 11th inning. 
The lrish had a chance to tie the game at two in the 11th. Jarrah 
· Myers was able to reach second with <mly one out. A fly out to center field advanced her to third. but the J~guars' Fultz struck out Rebecca Eimcn to stop the Irish threat and win the game. 
Sharron went the entire game for the Irish, as did the Jaguars' Fultz. Sharron allowed only. four hits and st.ruck out 12 in the losing cause. Her record now drops to 14-8 on the sea­
$0J:l, 
· The next game for the Irish is a dou­hleh(iader against St. John's on Saturday. They .also wiH host Seton · Hall on Sunday, in a game that could 
see SOFTBALL/ page 22 
.,, Softball vs. Seton Hall (DH) vs. Harvard 
Sunday. 11 a.m. Saturday, 2 p.m. Track and Field 
'° 
Big Ease Champioships 
EB 
at Villanova 
ATA 
.,, Baseball vs. Chicago State Tennis vs. Hope College at 
,. 
Saturday-Sunday
Today, 3:45 p.m. Today, 3 p.m. 
GLANCE 







