--------------------. 
Master Plan approvedSchools drop in rankings 
The Saint Mary's Board of Trustees has approved 
Friday
Nntrr• /Jom,• arrd Saint Mary's each slide in the 2000 a Master Plan for campus expansion. which willll.S. News and World Report include residence halls and new facilities.
_"!Jest. Colleges" rcmkings /Jy one position. 
AUGUST 27, 
page 3page 7 
1999 --------====:===========-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=------------~ 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXXIII NO. 4 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


University faces potential violation in Dunbar case 
Ki111b(•rly Dunbar maU1ir would 1.ions abound. players, funding gills including that staff mombnrs undtir former .,. 
By FRICA THESING 
bn rcsolvnd in !'our Lo six wneks. The case dates back several trips lo Las Yogas and Chicago. head coach Lou lloltz did not Assud,Hc New, F.J,mr 
But 1warly thrnc months aftm yeiars. when Dunbar, a membor Now, Notre Dame officials bring information about that h1)ari11g, Notre Dame's cul­of' the now-defunct Quarterback expnct the University to face a Dunbar's gifts to tho att1)ntion of 
Wlrnn Nolrn Da11w appnarnd pability in Lile case involving a Club. mnbezzled $1.2 million major violation. according to an Notre Dume compliance ollidals lmforn Llw NCAA Commiltno 011 f'orrnor football booster is yet from her employ1ir. Dominiack Aug. 7 article in The Chicago quickly enough. lnf'raclions Jurw 4, Llw undelcnninod. and spnculutiQns Mechanical, Inc., of' South Bnnd. Tribune. The report cited an Such a f'inding would ra.isP Univ!'rsitv and athletic associa­the Univcrsitv will f'ace its first She reportndly spent $18,000 of anonymous source who said the tion ga·vl' indirations tlrn major violati,;n of NC/\!\ r1igual-that on former Irish football committee would likely decide see DUNBAR/page 4 
SHATTERED 

. Death raises questions about police behavior 
By CHRISTINE KRALY 
A»oria1c News Editor 
111 a shooting slill undnr iHvnsligalioll. fornll'r Irish football captain 1>1111m tri us I) u ll oirn was 
killf'd .July 24 in Snn Dingo during Ill} altPrca­lion with police officers rnsponding to a burglary call. 
Tim liirnbacker wa::; sliol 12 tinws, with l'ivn hul!Pts in tlw back, according to San Diego Medical Examiner's rnports. The Sun Diego District At.tornoy's 0flicn is inves­minP whetlwr the two offirnrs involved aclnd in a criminal munnur, said public af'fairs officer Denise Vedder. ' 
An attorney for tlrn Du Bose f'amilv is one of many q uostion ing the slwoting. 
"Putting six bullets in a man's back under these circumstances strikes us 
ligali ng th<\ case lo del(\I'­
sec DUBOSE/page 6 
ND administration prohibits gay ads 
By TIM LOGAN News Editor 
TTw·university has set forth a nnw advertising policy for The 0bsnrvnr which specifically bans acceptance of advertisements from Gay and Lnsbian Alumni of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's (CJ\LJ\-ND/SMCl and prohibits ads f'rom "outside groups that, directly or indirectly, espouse positions contrary to the teachings of the Catholic Church." 
This change in policy, coming two years aftor · release of the 
Spirit of Inclusion "Because we are a mission is not Statement, once consislont with
Catholic institution. we 
again raises Church tPaching.
uphold the teachings of
questions about Unrncogniznd the University's the Catholic Church. groups may not 
stance -and the We've made a blanket advnrtisc in ca.m­Catholic Church's p us nwdia. and
statement against
teachings -with according to rngard to horno­GALA" .Johnson's IPttPr, scxualitv. "GI.ND is the prin­Tlw s"tatement. ci plP IH'1wficiary
Chandra Johnson
dcscribPd in a lnt­of' IGJ\I.J\'sl ads,"
assistant to the president
te r rrom tlrn thus implying 0 lTice of Urn of the University CLND/SMC is, in 
"Our hopn is that as I.Im policy stands filr this iss1w tlwrP would II!' a p1ffvasivoness that would apply to similar groups," she said. 
GALA. which is not alTilial(id in any way with the Univnrsity, is ban,rnd from advnrtising for two masons, Johnson said. 
The first is its dose ties with the studnnt group 0utlfoach ND. former­ly Gays and Lesbians of Notn~ Damn and Saint Mary's Collngn (GL~D/SMCJ. That organization was dnnincl rncognition as a University student group in JlJCJ5 lrncausn, according to administrators, its 
l'rnsidcnt of llrn University, came in response to Observer editor in chief Michelle Krupa's May rnquest !'or a definitive and written directive rngarding GAl.1\ ads. 
The policy. irn plement.cd by the University in its legal capacity as publisher of' the newspaper, is intended to reflect the "spirit" of' tlw administration's stance on the mat­tor, according to assistant to the prnsiclrnt Chandra .Johnson, who authored the lettnr. · 
"Becausn we arc. a Catholic institu­tion. we uphold the tPachings of' the Catholic Church," she said. "We've made a blankot statement against CAL\." 
While the letter only mentions specifically tho gay association. it also states "a pro-choice organiza­tion or an abortion clinic would not be allowed lo advnrtiso." 
The rationale of the policy 
.Johnson Pxpmssml hope the~ policy would he rncognized by otlrnr groups which may want to advertise and thus serve to dnfusn misunder­standings. 
f'act. a rncogniwd 
Univ1n-sity group. 

The alumni group's implied oppo­sition to Catholic moral tnachings is thn second mason GALA may not run ads. the ll'tt11r road. The Univmsity studind the group's mis­sion statmnent and stancos and con­rlud ed it Pspous<HI objnct.ionahl(\ opinions, Johnson said. 
CAI.A rnprnsentalives dispul.!1 this conclusion. 
"GAi.A has npwr takon a stancn that would contradict. the stance or Lim Catholic Churrh," said John Blandfonl, chairman of the! grnup of' more than 700. "To assert that we've done so is simply a Ii<~ ... 
GALA's purpose 
Tim organization's mission statn­nwnt f'ocuses 011 supporting t.lrn st11­dnn t group 0utll1\ach ND and tlw intnrcsts of gay and losbiun alumni of' Notrn Damo and Saint Mary's. Tlw last advnrtisPnHmt CJ\! .A ran in Tlw Obst)i'VPr. on May 15, congratu­latncl gay and lesbian graduatcs nnd invilnd thnm tu join the organiza­
see GAi.A/page 4 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Friday, August 27, 1999 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Save your 
•

antagonism. for Michigan 
Walking around campus this week. I have noticed the usual humorous T-shirts poking fun at life under the Dome and the beverages that are consunrnd. 
From "Drink Likr, A Champion Today" to shirts that spoof famous logos and mottos with Nolre Dame. lhere are manv humorous articles of clothing l1oating around campus. 
I love the "Irish Comfort" shirts and I own a "King of Schools" shirt. 
But there are a few shirts that I just don't get. Most of these shirts involve ripping on the Irish oppo­nent this weekend, Lhe Kansas .Jayhawks. 
Now, don't get mP wrong, I sec nothing wrong with hurling a few insults and hatred at a worthy opponent, but ripping on Kansas just seems to be a big waste of time to me. 
I'll be the first person t.o proudly sport a "Sooners Suck" or "Lloyd Carr is a big sissy crybaby" across my chest but I really think . that "Kansas SUCKS" is a huge waste of cot­ton. 
I mean, come on, is anyone debating the idea that Kansas sucks? 
Bob Davie is putting forth his usual" "These guys are a tough team and we respected them" speeches and talking about how con­cerned he is with the Jayhawk offense, defense and special teams. 
If you listen to Davie too much you might start to think that the Jayhawks have Arizona's offense and Penn State's defense with Rudy's heart and more speed than the Concorde. 
But seriously, Kansas ranked 107th in defending the run last year and has a quar­terback that spent most of 1998 lying flat on his back and wondering what day it was. Kansas is not good. In fact, Kansas sucks. But no one is debating whether or not Kansas sucks. Most people pretty much agree that they suck. 
There is no need to remind Jayhawk fans of their l'ootball inferiority. Michigan fans need to be put in their place. Ohio State needs to be reminded that the average rock could out­smart most of their starting line and every opportunity to tell Florida State that they never have won a national championship on the 11eld should be s•1ized with gusto. Jayhawks have no illusions of grandeur. They know exactly where they stand. 
So please spare the cotton and stop printing up "Kansas SUCKS" shirts. Them are so many better ways that the cotton could be used. "USuCks" and "scUM" are excellent ideas for T-shirts. Insulting USC: and Michigan are worthy uses of cotton. 
Hipping on the Jayhawks is like kicking a dog. It is mean, a waste of time and just plain lamn. 
I I 
~ 
I 
The views expressed in the Inside ColumTl are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News Scene Noreen Gillespie Mike Vanegas Joshua BQurgcois 
Graphics Laura Rompf 

Joe Mueller 
Sports 

Production 
Mike Connolly 

Kerry Smirh Molly McVoy 
Lab Tech 
Viewpoint 

Kevin Dalum Colleen Gaughen 
Th, Olhcrvcr (USPS 591 2-4000) is puLli,heJ Mo11d,y 1hrough Frid.y exapc during ex.mu and v:u::itwn periods. The Obscrv~r is a 111ember of the Associated Prcsi.. All reproduction righrs are reserved. 
Compi!P.d from U-Wire reporrs

OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Boise State player dies in football scrimmage 
RO!SF STATE UNIVERSITY 
Freshman defensive lineman Paul Heyna was ready to do battle in the trnnchrs of Division I football. I-le arrived al Boise State in early August for the 1999 football season, and had yet to play a regular season game in the collegiate ranks. 
But during the team's first orga­nized scrimmage last week, Heyna suffered an internal head injury that rlaimf'd his lite Monday annnoon. · 
"We've lost a m'ember of the Bronco family." said visibly shaken head coach Dirk Koetter during a press conference Monday night. 
The accident happ1rncd when Reyna tripped o_ver a teammate, fell backwards and struck his head on the artificial turf. Moments after walking to the sideline, Renya lost conscious­ness following complaints of a severe headache. 
He was then rushed to St. 
" ... the outpouring ofsupport from the community and the university has made me prouder than ever to be a Bronco. " 
Dirk Koetter 

head football coach at Boise State 
Alphonsus Regional Medical Center where he underwent. emergency surgery to relieve pressure caused by a blood clot that quickly formed in his brain. 
Reyna was pronounced dead at 3:20 p.!]1. Monday. Koetter made the announcement to the team shortly thereafter. 
''Paul Reyn:;:s parnnts were kind enough to let me tell the team before we announced it to the media. I'll always lw indebtml to them f'or that," said Koetter. 
Students and community 11rnmb1\rs fHled tlm Jordan Ballroom T11Ps<lay night. to offer their condolt~ncns to llw Hcvna family and the Bronco t.rn1111. 
·"The stn;ngth of Paul's family has been awnsome these past few days. Also the outpouring of support from the community and the university has made mo proudor than 1wer to be a Branen," said Kodtcr. 
Reyna, u freshman defonsivc tack­le, came to HSU from La Puente, Calif. lie amassed 44 tackles and 5.5 sacks and was team captain in his senior year at Bishop Amat High School. lie received honors as a first team A.11-Dnl Rey league player and was named a second team All-San Gabriel Valley selection. 
He was also chosen for the L.A. Times All-Star Team in his senior year. 

Ohio State studies income trends 
TIIE 01-110 STA.TE UNIVERSITY 
J\ new nationwide study examining the wealth of· Laby boomers found Lhat most young people accumu­late income slowly and steadily. "The study tracked the wealth of [6,810) young baby boomers from 1985 to 1996," said Jay Zagorsky, author of the study and a research scientist at Ohio State's Center for Human Resource Research. "Overall, the typical boomer increased his or her wealth by more than $2,000 each vear." Results showed that more than one-tenth of ~tudy participants had no wealth or were in debt by the time they reached their late 30s. "I set a very low bar in the research and asked how manv boomers had assets that were at least $1 more than "their debts. In 1996, 13 percent of young boomers could not jump over this low hurdle," he said. The data also contained a number of people who earned large incomes but had little wealth. "Conversely, there are even a few people whose income is below the U.S. poverty line, but have a very high net worth," Zagorsky said. "The big ques­tion is trying to understand why some people are wealthy while others are not." 
THIS WEEKEND ON CAMPUS 
Friday  Saturday  
. Stadium open for vistors:  . Marching band concert:  
Leahy Gate, noon to 3 p.m.  Bond Hall, 1:00 p.m.  
. Malloy book signing:  . Football game: vs.  
Bookstore, 4 to 6 p.m.  Kansas, 2:30 p.m.  
. Pep rally: Joyce Center.  . Saturday vigil masses:  
5:30 p.m. for students.  Basilir,a, 30 minutes after  
5:45 p.m. for public  game; Stepan Center, 40  
minutes after game  

Monday· 81
~ 

,, 
.~

Tuesday , 81 
1~ ;-...,...,y...~·,.,~..,_,."' '"';.:·: 
'8,Q,G_9 Q. Q (f 
StrowPrs T-storms Rain F/'urries Snow fee Sunny Via Assoclatea Press GrJph,csNel 
UC student meets Kosovar pen pal 
UNIVERSITY or CALIPOl{NIA AT BERKLEY 
A Kosovar Albanian teenager known to National Public Radio listeners as "Adona" came to the Bay Area last night to meet the Berkeley boy she corre­sponded with during the Balkan crisis. Kujtr.sa Bcjtullahu arrived at San Francisco International Airport yesterday to face a group of approximately 30 members of the media who barraged the teenager with questions about her e-mail correspondence with 17-year-old Berkeley resident Finnegan Hamil. 'Tm pretty excited," Bejtullahu said. "I was waiting for this moment a long time ago." She arrived with three other Kosovar teens last night. following the efforts of" Berkeley's First Congregational Church (of which Hamil is a member} to bring the youths to the United States. Hamil and "Adona" began exchanging mes­sages in January, after Marek Zelazkiewicz, a former UC Berkeley researcher and a member of the San Francisco-based Peace Workers group, put the two in contact. Throughout the correspondence, Zelazkiewicz said Bejtullahu hid from Serbians in Pristina. Kosovo's capital. 
Sunday 
. 
Mass: Basilica of the Sacred Heart: 8 a.m., 10 a.m., 11:45 a.m. 

. 
Exhibit opening: Snite Musuern, 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. 


. Panel discussion: 
Annenberg Auditorium, 
3:30 p.m. 
Monday 
. Auditions for perfor­mance class: Hegina Studio at Saint Mary's, 7 to 9 p.rn. 
. Casablanca: Annenberg Auditorium. 7 p.m. 

LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWr;::ather@forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures. 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Friday, Aug. 27. 
70s lines separate high temperatur_e zones 1oi the day. 

L Friday ~ 86 63 Saturday ~ 87 65 Sunday ~ 80 61 

57 65 
Via ASSOCl81Rd Pn•~ 

Atlanta 90 70 Las Vegas 102 BO Portland 88 64 Ballimore 87 68 Memphis 94 71 Sacramento 98 60 Boston 78 69 Milwaukee 88 67 St. Louis 92 71 
Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Chicago 86 64 New York B3 72 Tampa 93 74 Houston 100 74 Philadelphia 84 72 Wash. DC 88 72 
~ u 

hiday, August 27, 1999 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Board approves Master Plan for campus expansion 
• $ 7 4 million plan result of year-long plan­ning project 
Observer S1aff l(cpon 
h1rnl prnparalions for rampus expan­sion arc• around llrn bend for Saint Mary's aftPr Llw Board of Truswns apprDvPd a MastPr Plan for campus nxpansion al. ils Ju,w Ui rPtrnat. 
Co11clucli11g a ynar of' planning with 1'1·rl'orma Co11sulti11g-, tlw lloard gaw tlw go-alwad for a $74 million long-rang1~ plan which will PXlPnd over a period of s1•vl'ral yoars. · 
"Tlw ov1)1Tiding goal of tlw planning prornss was to n1lain that special quality of llw Saint 'vlary's campus wllil1:, al t.h1: samP linw. Pnlrnnring tlw lPaching and living spam to provide tlm bnst possible studcnt-ct•ntcrt•d Pnvironm1mt." said William Sd1muhl. chairman of' thP hoard. 
Tlw approved plun includes tlw ('.Oil· stnwtion of !'our l!PW buildings, renova­tions or livn nirn,nt buildings and addi­tions Lo tlmw existing facililics. Parking lols will lw movml and added and fom­111011 arnas will bn crnatt1d to unify cam­pus. 
New Buildings 
New rnsidPncp halls di:signnd to arcommodatn aparlnH'nt-style living will b11 conslructPd on tlw northeast conrnr ol' campus. In adclilion to alternativ1! liv­ing spam, it will allow for l'(lnforPnce housing during tlw sumnwr months. 
Living spacP was a conriirn for tho CollPge in I Ill' design prornss, dun to an incrPasing stud(1nl population. Saint Mary's hopPs lo 1•nroll 1750 stud11nts by tli1• year 200:i. 
"llccausP our rn1rollmenl is expanding we have bcm1 aggressive about keeping up with the clcmauds upon our campus," said Marilou Fldrnd. prnsidcnt of Saint Mary's. "We llxpect that 90 pnrcont ol' our studnnt budy will be living on cam­pus by 2005, so we are challPngr.d to hep it a place of beauty that is truly supportive or our academic and spiritual missions." 
A multi-purpose cent(lr will also assist in the C,)lltigo·s need for confnrnnce and common spacP. The :i0,000 squan• foot facility will bo located on the northeast corner of campus. MfH1ting rooms, instructional space\ faculty offices, meet­ing space and food preparation areas will bn included in the building. 
A wl'lcornn cnnter, designed to greet visitors to campus, will also be con­structed. Campus security will move to this location. 
Expansion 
Kocping with tho need for 24-hour stu­dent llHH\ling S()UC() Oil campus, the demand f'or a studf'nt centflr is also answ1irod in th11 Master P.lan. 
Noble Family Dining I lall will undergo significant rnnovation to create a Student Center that will be home to the book­store, a convnniencc store, travel agency. bank, post office, student organi­zation ollices and meeting space for stu­dent organizations. 
Angela Athletic Facility will also undergo major renovation, with plans outlining additional recreation and sup­port spacns, a pool and second gymnasi­um. 
llaggar Collegr. Centnr will house offices several cam·pus oflices. 
Green space . 
Common areas will help connect exist­ing and l\1ture buildings into clusters with connocting walkways to unify cam­pus. 
PROPOSED CAMPUS MASTER PLAN 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
NOI'RE ll,\ME. INDlt\i\i,\ 
Images courtesy of Parforma Consulting 

The Master Plan, approved by the Board of Trustees on June 26, outlines a long-term plan for campus expansion. The plan includes new residence halls, greenspace and renovation to current buildings. 
One common area will be constructed ing the new residence halls. Angela where Ln Mans parking lot currently Athletic Facility and tlrn rnultipurpos11 exists. This space will serve as a connec­cnnter. tion f'or Le Mans Hall. Regina Hall, A financial plan is currontly in plan­
Moroau Center for the Arts and the reno­ning to finance the project. The first vated and expanded Noble Family Dining project will be the rnnovation and expan­llall and student activity cnnter. sion of the Noble Family Dining Hall and 
A second green space will be built at renovation of teaching space in nxisling the northrrnst corner of campus, connect-buildings. 
*Books delivered in no more than three business days or your shipping is refunded. Some restrictions apply. See www.varsitybooks.com for details. 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, August 27, 1999 
Dunbar 
continued from page l 
questions about a lack of institu­tional control over athletic pro­grams, namely football. If the committee determines the University did not adequately officiate its football program in this case, Notre Dame likely will receive its first major violation. 
Possible penalties for a major violation include loss of televi­sion appearances or restrictions on recruiting or postseason play. 
David Swank, chairman of the committee and a University of Oklahoma law professor, said he 
could not com­ment the pend­ing case, and Mark Jones, director ol' enforcement for the NCAA, said his staff isn't privy to information on the committee rfoliberalion. 
A statement released by the University immediately following the hearing said the NCAA was unlikely to reach a deci­sion "for at 
least four to six weeks." That duration is the NC.M's standard response time for matters heard by the committee, according to the organization's Web site. 
University spokesman Dennis Moore said the extra time is not considered a delay. 
"!The four to six week guide­line! was assuming that they had felt after that hearing that they could just sit down and make a decision," he said. 
"If they wanted to review things further, obviously that stretches out the process. But its not unusual. In fact, it would be unusual if the process did not take a considerable amount of time." 
The investigation 
The NCAA first became aware of the Dunbar case in March 1998 when Notre Dame self­reported the matter. 
One year later, the _associa­tion's Enforcement staff com­pleted its investigation and rec­ommended a secondary viola­tion, which could carry sanc­tions like probation without penalty or a minor loss of schol­arships. 
The Committee on Infractions, however, decided to review the case itself. 
Pursuant to that decision, the University hired two outside attorneys from Bond, Schoeneck & King, a firm specializing in NCAA cases, to help prepare for the June 4 hearing. 
University president Father Edward Malloy and University executive vice president Father William Beauchamp led the del­egation to Indianapolis. 
They were joinl~d by other administrators and athletic department representatives, including vico president and general counsel Carol Kaesebier, associate vke presi­dent and counsel William Hoye, athletic director Mike Wadsworth, h£'ad football coad1 13ob Davie, associatP athletic director for legal issues Melissa Conboy and director of compli­ance for the department of ath­letics Mike Karwoski. 
The hearing 
On June 3, ESPN aired a report citing excerpts f'rom Dunbar's diaries. Although Moore said the diaries contained nothing substantial, the entries carefully documented Dunbar's relationships with the players. 
The next morning, the Notre Dame delegation and its hired attorneys spent nearly five hours before the committee, explain­ing their response to Dunbar's activities. After the hearing, Beauchamp read a prepared statement. 
"Our response today to the Committee on Infractions was as our response to the NCM has been from the beginning, forth­right and complete, and it included the significant steps the University is taking to guard against any recurrence of inci­dent.., such as this," he said. 
More waiting

"We set high standards 
T h e

for ourselves in the 
University con­

conduct ofintercolle-tinues to await word on its
giate athletics. and 
fate as this

that makes this a par­
•year's Irish 

ticularly painful expe­squad pre­pares for
rience for us -as it is 
Saturday's

for our alumni and 
season opener friends." against Kansas. Throughout
Fr. William Beauchamp 
the summer,

University executive vice the committee president sought the 
opinion of 
Enforcc·mcnt 

staff members on various issues, Moore said. He explained such dialogue con­tinued through last week, sug­gesting the committee is still deliberating. 
When a decision is reached, Jones said, Notre Dame will like­ly receive 24 hours notice prior to a public release of the verdict. The NCAA public relations office will then coordinate a release with the University's public rela­tions office. 
Dunbar, who was sentenced in September to four years in prison for the embezzlement, will be released Oct. 17. She earned the early release date with good behavior and the completion of a degree program through Indiana University. 
She is said to have had rela­tionships with several of the players, including Jarvis Edison, the father of her daughter. 
GALA 
continued from page 1 
tion. 

Blandford attacked the. 
ad ministration's assumption 
that his group is opposed to the 
Catholic Church. 

'The assertion here is that GALA espouses positions contrary to the Catholic Church. I find this wholly ·offensive," he said. "It goes to the issue of prejudiced policies that drive this 
administration." 

The Spirit of Inclusion, adopted by the Officers of the University in August 1997, calls the Notre Dame community to "create an environment of mutual respect, hospitality and 
warmth in which none are strangers and all may flour­ish." 
Inclusion's spirit 

A source of controversy since its adoption, the Statement was written in lieu o.f tho legally binding addition of sexual orienta­tion to the University's non­discrimination clause. 
Administrators claimed addition of such a clause would make Notre Dame vul­nerable to civil courts' inter­pretation of Church doctrine and could be taken as University approval of homo­sexual acts. 
"Within society at large, the phrase '_sexual orienta­tion' sometimes becomes a term that docs not admit of distinction between sexual orientation and the manner in which people live out their sexual orientation -a dis­tinction that is critical to us as a Catholic institution," wrote University president Father Edward Malloy in a letter accompanying the Statement. 
The written statement is intended to reflect the spirit of the University's position, not to serve as permanent policy, according to Johnson. Decisions on advertising eli­gibility will be made on a case-by-case basis. This will enable administrators and group leaders to apply and modify the guidf)lines to situ­ations as they come up. 
"It continues the conversa­tion," she said. "It's the very nature of the Church." 

NCAA investigation process 
By ERICA THESING 
Associate News Editor 

Although specific details about the NCAA investigation of Notre Dame are not public record, the NCAA publishes general information about its enforcement department on its website. The following is a summary of that information. 
The NCAA enforcement staff may investigate a member institution "when it has rea­sonable cause to believe that the institution may have violat­ed NCAA rules," according to the organization. Notre Dame self-reported its case to the NCAA in March of 1998. 
If the enforcement staff determines that a major viola­tion may have occurred, it sends an official letter of inquiry to the institution. 
After completing its investi­gation, the enforcement staff makes a recommendation to the Committee on Infractions. The Committee then decides whether further investigation is warranted. According to the association, "The enforcement staff docs not have the authori­ty to make findings nor impose or rncommend penalties." 
The Division I Committee on Infractions has eight members, including six from NCAA mem­ber institutions and two from the general public. Division II and Division III institutions have their own committees, composed of five individuals. Four of these represent divi­sional memberships and one is from the general public. 
If the committee chooses to study the matter, a hearing date is set. Notre Dame appeared before the commit­tee June 4. 
The committee chair opens the hearing with general back­ground information. The insti­tution, the enforcement staff and other involved parties then give opening statements. Next, the enforcement staff presents specific details on the allega­tion, followed by presentations from the institution and otlrnr parties. The Committee may ask questions of any party throughout the process. After discussion of each allegation, each party presents a closing argument. 
After the hearing, the com­mittee deliberates on possible findings and penalties. According to the NCAA, "The information upon which viola­tions are found must be credi­ble, persuasive and of a nature that reasonably prudent per­sons would rely upon in the conduct of' serious affairs. Penalties can include proba­tionary periods, bans on post­season competition, restric­tions in television appearances and reductions of athletics scholarships. Restrictions on the athletics-related duties of individual coaches may be' imposed, if warranted." 
According to the NCAA, the Committee's deliberations gen­erally occur over the four to six weeks following the hear­ing via conference calls. 


Internet banking 
Checking account 
' 

Overdraft protection 
ATM/ Debit card · 
Questions? 

Call us at 258-3150, or e-mail us at BankOnCampus@lst source.com. 
Full service, ori-line banking designed especially for college students! 
Whether you're on a MAC or a PC, our easy-to­use interface makes banking on the Internet a snap. Visit us online at www.bankoncampus.com to find out how you can benefit from this innovative account. 
.-sou,ce~
liiiiBank 
Member FDIC 

orldNation 

Friday, August 27, 1999 COMPILED FIWM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
O'Hare shuts down after mysterious man bolts 
Cl IICA(~O 
;\ passt'ng('r ran past a security clrnckpoin1 and disapptlarncl into tlH: crowd at O'Hare International /\irport on Thursday, prompting UniLPcl 1\irli1ws lo shut down a terminal as aulhorilins scardwd for him. United cancelml (,9 f'lighls and expected delays nf' s11v1\ral lwurs 011 ollinrs, said United spokesman .Joe llopkins. Tlw man wus not found. llundrcds of' p1tss1•ngl'fs wnrn doarml f'rom the terminal d11ring !lw !hrcc-hour s11arch by µolice. C:hirni{o l'oliCf~ spnknsman Patrick Cumdiln said lfwy did not find tlrn man or uny suspi­t:io11s bags. CamclPn said llrn man hacl !wen sp1•11 1·arryi11g a 1·1111vas hag. Thn man was l<•avi11g a yorH·oursP and !wading toward lhc hiq.{gagt• 1·laim arna \\l11m lrn turrw<l back and ran up a one-way stairrus1· l1•ading to Uw ron­rou rsl', said United spoki:sman Matthr\v. Tria1·a. Cuards an\ stationml at thn staircase, liut tlw man ran past llwm. 
Three stabbed on Amtrak train in Ohio 
01.MSTl-:t> !;Al.LS 
.-\ tnllll with an 8-i11d1 knif'P stablwd two 1·01ultu·ton, and a passPngPr 011 an Amtrak train oulsidt• C!Pwland on Thursday and was pull«·d f'rnm a rrowd and arrnslnd al'tnr a ridnr poi11tf'd him out. polit:1\ said. Tlw pass1n1gnr and 0111• of' thP 1·.onductors wcrn i11 crit.iral rn1Hlilio11 Thursday night. 01w with a !wad wound and llw otlwr wilh stab wounds to his rl11•Pk and jaw. l'olict• said they had no 111olivl'. Tlw suspP1't, bdorn a court appmu:­1111<:I', slwutPd lo rPporlPrs that hP aclnd in s1•ll'-dtd'1•11s1• wlH'n a trai11 portPr pullml a gun 1111 him. l'asstmgPrs on tlw Lak1• Shoni Limittid run from Chicago to Nnw York wern joltt\d awak<· ahoul 3:20 a.m. as llw suspect and the vit·tims ran through llw lrain, lrntving a bloody trail through St'Vf'l1 cars. Tlw train carried :nc, pass('11g<•rs and 12 <TPW mnmlwrs. 
Hurricane heads for Bahamas 
NASSAU 
ll11rri1·a111• Iknnis slrPngllw1wd as il crept up 1m 1111' Bahamas Thursday. snnding rnsidenls snirrying lo grornry storPs to stock up 011 sup­plies. By Friday morning, Dmmis was expt!ctml to conrn willtin 40 miles of' thn Bahamas' l•:lm1tlwra Island, a 110-miln-long strip of pink sand that X,000 pnople call honw. "Peoµln still renwmbPr llurrinuw Andrew hcmi from I992, so wti'n• kPPping an <)yn out for it," Elcuthnra hotnl 0\.-Vllt!r Ilarcourt Cambridge said. In lhn Bahamian rnpital. Nassau, boats wnrn hau!Pd out of' tlll' harbor, am! the governor gmwral's oilidal l'Psid,,m·e was boanlml up. Onu rnsidnnt, 2:i-ycmr-olcl Brian !)pal, said hn had bought lumlwr to cowr his windows but was waiting lo snP how thP storm would progress. 
Market Watch: 8/26 

Dow 
AMEX: 
784.12

JONES 1.76 
Nasdaq:

11198.45 
2774.62 
..,O.'lK

D 
NYSK 
6J2.34 
· 7.62 
S&P.500: 
1362,01 

{'ompositc
-19.7!( 
Volume:

-127.59 7S4,IOO,OIIO 
VOLUME lEADERS 

II{ h'.t H "1'('11,HIHif S(,AIN l'KI( f ( 11;.(0",Y\'rt-M\ n.fo 1 1Ufl HI.Jl5«1 llf U .. ( fJ,\ll•liJ ~ N uru. -i.Hi -1.0600 Mi( HO\Ot I <OHi' ,\l"fT -11,7J ·11.fl'IJ~ IU\11100.f'OM IN{ ,u,rn ""l~U.. Rfl +m,Mift tNfU. !'OJ.IP trfl"( -J.I~ 
-2.627!\ 

J,.P!flf.1111l~IJ\UMk MH +n.•~ tb,IUHIO n~.l'lt4 COM.I• ("lf'N +1.111 •2.-0,?~ IUNk ONt. ("OHi" ONt'. .lJt!i -U.NMUI) UJ.1.1\ll!riolN( n,AII -7.ftf, -!i.1ia1111 \1( I\\OHt.J)C'OM IN W(.l>M -J,77 -3.tl6'-1l 

BRAZIL 


AFP Photo 

Students hold a sign reading "Death to FHC (Brazilian President Fernando Henrique Cardoso)" yesterday, in front of the national congress building in Brasilia_ Almost 100,000 people joined in the march to protest against the economic policies of the Brazilian government. 
Protest follows economic reform 
from a doznn decorated sound trucks cnmtml a car­n i val-1 ikn atmosplrnre on ~the broad lawns of the 
Esplanade ul' Ministries. 
The protest was orga­
nized by an array or 80 
institutions, including lnft­
ist parties, labor unions 
and studnnt groups. It was 
the biggest rally ever 
against the !'me-market 
reforms of Cardoso, who 
took oflice in 1995 and was 
re-elected last year. 

The protesters planned 
to deliver a petition with 
opposed to abortion righls. Among rivals for the GOP nomination, Bush has said he would not make abortion views a test for his judicial appointments. 
Arizona Sen. John McCain, recently accusml by some conservatives of sol't­en in g his anti-abortion stance, dcclinccl Thursday to comm1111t on a county judge's decision in his statP forcing officials to take a 14-year-old girl who was 23 weeks pregnant out or state for an abortion. 
"It sounds like a tragic case," McCain said when asked about it while cam­paigning in San Diego. But 
morn tlu.rn I million signa­tures asking for 11 congrns­si011 al investigation into suspected irregularities in the I<J<J8 privatization of' Tnlebras, the fecl!iral telecommunications com­pany. Some leaders also want to examine Cardoso's roln in the episode -the first step toward imp,mch­rnnnt procnedings. 
"Wn stHi no futurn with Cardoso. The poor am going through sharµ pain bncause of his policies," said Flavio Ramos. 
Associatul Press 

BllASILI:\ 
Tens of thousands of Brazilians, fed up with hnlt-tightnning rnforms that knep unemployment high and wages low, con­verged peacei'ully on the capital Thursday with a loud message for the gov­ernment: Change coursn or f'acn growing social unrest. 
Undnr thn dose watch ol' almost 6,000 police and army troops, tlw so-called March or the 100,000 dogged streets around the city's modernistic, cone­shaped cathedral. Early polic1i cstimahis sai<l there were 60,000 protesters, but police officers later said the number could have reached 100,000. Organizers said there were up to 130,000. 
Heel !'lags and banners calling !'or the resignation of President Fernando llenrique Carcloso colored the dry savannah land­scape. Deafening music 
GOP candidates oppose court rulings 
be said Im wantnd to study the matter further lwf'ore saying morn. 
Forhes was not so reti­cnnl, calling the d11cision "nothing short of' infanti­cidti." The state's Hnpublican govPrnor, Gov. Jann llull, said taking llw teen out of state for the abortion was legal and tlrn judgn -who is not a presi­rlential appointee -wais acting in the perceived best intornst of the girl. 
Forbns and Bush both attacked tho susµnnsion or Clllv11land's program allow­ing pupils to attond privato schools using tuition vouch­ers paid for by taxpayers. 
A5sociated Pres5 

WASIIINCTON 
Court rulings blocking a school voucher program in Cleveland and providing for an Arizona teonagfH"'s abor­tion am raising rPd flags in Lhn Hepublican presidential 
campaign. 

Steve fiorb1is on Thursday dccri1:d the rulings as "judi­cial activism run amok." Tnxas Gov. Gcorgn Bush also weighed in on the deci­sion in Clevnland that s1int the op1:ning week ol' school inlo turmoil. 
The suspension of lhc voucher µrogram was a 
"judicial overreach with 
serious casualtins 
Clev<'land's disadvantaged 
school childrnn," Bush said 
Thursday. If federal courts 
keep this up they "could 
stille the ability of faith­
b,L<;t\d organizations to help 
neighbors in need." 

Forbes said the decisions 
"in Cleveland and Arizona show the n(1ed to appoint judges who respect the rights of parents and the unborn. 
Forbes, whose anti-abor­tion views have hardened since he ran for the GOP nomination in 1996, has said that as president he would appoint judges 
----·--------­
page G The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS ·Friday, August 27, 1999 
event~ of July 24 exist National Association for tho between San Diego police and Advancement of Colored
DuBose 
Watkins. People have called upon the 
· Police said they arrived and San Diego Police Department
continued from page l 
questioned· to take DuBose, who action.
as profoundly unjustified," 
Brian Watkins, an matr:hed the "We don't want this swept "We
attorney description of don't

for the DuBose family, told under the rug. My question
a local bur­wantThe San Diego Union­
is, did pigmentation make
glary suspect, t h i s
Tribune. 
until he a d~tference?" swept
The investigation should be 
became agitat­under
complete within six to 10 
ed. DuBose t h e
weeks, after which the police 
Larry Malone 
allegedly then rug. " 
report will be made public. 
grabbed an co-director of the San Diego Larry
Dave Cohen, a spokesman 
officers' Youth & Adult Coalition Malone,
for the San Diego Police 
nunchukas. C 0Department, would not com­
The officers director
ment on the still-pending initially used of thecase because the DuBose Mace pepper S a n
family still could enter civil spray to sustain him, but Diego Youth & Adult Coalitionlitigation. 
opened fire when he failed to Lold The Union-TriLune. "My submit, according to reports. ' question is, did pigmentationThe shooting scene Watkins, however, said rnakP a diffcrencH?" The incident occurred when 
DuBose cooperat.ed with Tbc incident, and reports of a surprised tenant walked police until thfly physically drug use and violence that into his apartment to find the 
confronted and tried to hand­have come out in its wake, former Irish linebacker 
cuff him. The nunchukas "fell has also surprised those who asleep on a couch. DuBose · out of their holders," and knew the former Irish cap­mistakenly had walked into 
DuBose was shot when trying tain. the apartment and fallen to stand up after picking up "You can't believe every­asleep. the weapons, the attorney thing you hear or that you
Police arrived after the 
said. read," said Germaine Holden, owner woke DuBose, a.:cord­a defensive 1rnd who played ing to Watkins, who told The with DuBose and a senior
Death rocks community
San Diego l!nion-Tribunc the academic counselor at Notre
The former l\Jotre Dame
situation was 
Dame. "All I ever knew
star's dealh
resolved 
Demetrius was as a friend. I
has shaken
when police 
have absolutely nothing bad
"All I ever knew the African­
arrived. 
to say about him at all."
Demetrius was as a American
Autopsy 
The shooting incident wascommunity in
reprn-ts show friend. I have nothing not the first time DuBose ran
San Diego,
DuBose had into problems with the law.
bad to say about him and some
alcohol, On a visit to South Bend
at all." have called for
cocaine and 
last September, DuBose was
an extensivethe drug ejected from Heartland, a
investigation.
"ecstasy" in Germaine Holden dance club in the 200 block
"There have
his system at 
of South Michigan, by city
teammate been some
the time of officers after he reportedlyvocal people
the shooting. 
ripped down a 20-foot sectionin the commu­It is not clear 
of pipe from the building's
n i tv, and we
whether 
·sprinkler system.
understand
DuBose's 
that," said Cohen.
behavior was affected by the The San Diego Union­
Organizations including the
substances. 
Tribune was used in lhis arti­
San Diego chapter of the
Conflicting reports of the 
cle. 

r 
l 
SECURITY 

Man exposes self to female jogger 
unsettling comments, the

By NOREEN GJLLFSPIE 
student reported.
Saint Mary's Ediror 
The student then escaped and ran to her residence hall 

An unidentified, naked 
where she contacted Notremale -allegedly accosted a 

Dame security. Officersfemale student on Notr<1 

searched the lake paths and

Dame's campus Thursday surrounding areas but did evening, Notre Dame 
not locate a suspect, Rakow 

Security/Police reported. 
said. 

The Notre The suspect is a Cau.:asian 
Dame stu­
The male, possibly in his late 20s,
dent report­
six feet tall with a stocky
Suspect 

ed she was 
muscular build and blond Last seen at jogging hair. He was last seen wear­
around 
ing a white T-shirt and dark
6:15 p.m. 

Saint Mary's shorts.
Thursday L a k c 
It is nQt known whether the 

between
. Caucasian susprct is a Notre Dame stu­
Fatima 
dent.
. late 20s 

Retreat 
As of 3 a.m., no further 

. stocky, mus• Center and 
information had been rnport­

Carroll llall ed about the incident.
cular build 

a n d 
Notre Dame . blond hair observed a Security/Police did issue a 

male stand-
Campus Watch report

ing on the detailing the incident and is basketball courts north of 
looking for people who mhy

Carroll Hall, according to know anything about the 
Rex Rakow, director of Notre incident. 
Dame SflCurity. 
Notre Dame Security/PoliceAs she neared the man, he asks that anyone with infor­

reportedly blocked her path, mation about the suspect or 
exposed himself and made 
the incident call 631-5555. 


i ' . .' · '2:35 S. Michigan St. Fresh prepared ~ers, \ ·::-south Bend, IN 46601
e,--7U} ' 

Pizza, Beverage5 219-233-1000 
Do~town South Bend~s Ffue-st Italian Dining 

Room 012 LaFortune Student Center 
THE place to ship all your packages, conveniently located in the center ofcampus. 
Nt"l'I• HOURS!!!!!!!!! 
Hours:  M-TH  11am  5:30pm;  
8:30pm-Mid  
FRI  /lam -5:30pm  




Friday, August 27, 1999 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
========================::=..:_-=--:_=-----=-----=-----=--=-----=--=-----=-----=-----=--=--=--=--=--=-=--=-=-----=-=-----=-=-----=--=-----=-----=-----=-----=-----=-----=-----=-----=-=-----=-=-----=--=-----=--=-----=--=-----=--=-----=--=-----=--=-=-=---=--=---=--==-=-========= 
Saint Mary's, Notre Dame fall in annual college rankings 
. 2000 rankings drop Saint Mary's to No. 2 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE .'iairn Mary's Ldirm 
F11ding a fivn-ynar run as thn top-ranknd Best Midwost 1!1•gio11al 1.illl'ral Arts Coll1\g" hy l/.S. NPws and World 
l!nport, · S a i 11 t

See also 
Mary's "SMC still strong" fpll to No. 2 in the
page 13 
2 0 0 0 rankings. "To h1• ranked second among I '.~ 1) collrgns in our 
•·ate-gory hy any standard is impn'ssivt•," said Saint Mary's pr1•sic!P11I M.irilo11 l·'.ldn•d. 
Sai11l \lary's rnnk.-d Sl'!'o11d 
behind llillsdalln Collnge of, llillsclaln. Mich .. a four year private, co-ocl ucational libnral arts collegti. llillsrlaln ranknd sec·ond bd1ind Saint Mary's in 199'). 
Slipping into sPrond by one percnntage point, the !'actors tlrnt dcl'ine the idtrnLity of a rnllrgc play a laq{P rolo in rl11ciding thosn rankings, emphasized Eldred. 
"Thern ai·<i many Plnmnnt.s that dnfino a top school, both tangible and inta11gibln," shn said. 
"A singlo 1rnrc<mtag(1 point lrntwnon oursolvos and th-n number Oil<' Midwost Begional 1.ilwral Arts C:oll(lge is minor. Wr. am pleased with our suc­cnss and sPct1r(1 i11 our din•c­t.ion. and !'ongra1ulate otlwr collngns that arn also snrving thnir· stud(\llts well." 
Saint Mary's has llnld a top-IO spot in the rankings since the survey·s brginning in 1986. The only other college to match Saint Mary's f'ive­year streak in the top spot of any category is Susqunhanna Univnrsity of P1rnnsylvania. Saint Mary's tied Susquehanna's record with Llrnir 1997-98 ranking. 
U.S. Nows and World Heport tabulates the rnnkings first by combining l'Psults of a 1·eputa­tional survey. The survey is complotod by ·1 ,400 accrnd iL­nd four-ynar colleges and uni­vnrsitios which provide the m,1gazino with educational data about Urn institutions. 
f.ollng" µrnsidnnts, provosts, and doans or admission ·are asknd to ra((\ tho schools that fall into 1hnir own r.utegories. Ttwse surveys wi1ighl 2!i per­c<·r1t ol' tlrn final tally. 
Data colloctrd nrnasuring 


0MPUS 
MINISTRY 
. Rice jumps, Notre Dame drops after 1999 tie 
By MATTHEW SM ITH 
'.\Jews Writer 

In an annual ranking of nalional Universities conduct­. ed by U.S. News and Wnrlrl 
Report maga­zine, Notrn 
I) a m o dropped from humber 18 lo 19. 
According to the nrnga­zine, the sur­vey is based solely on evi­d r nc r given to the maga­

zine by each university. Hich Folhrs of U.S Nows 
.-------------------------------------------------------. 

Dear Alumni &Friends, 
The staff of Campus Ministry extends an invitation to come together and celebrate the Eucharist this weekend. 
Michigan State Footb~ll Weekend September 11-12, 1999 
Saturday Vigil Masses Basilica 30 minutes after game Stepan Center 45 minutes after game 
Sunday Masses 
Basilica  8:00, 10:00 am & 11:45 am  
Sacred Heart  6:00, 7:00, 8:00,  
9:30 & 11:00 am  

•~4 one-position drop isn't has this ev<m one percent r~/' the y o a r 
W h i I n

Wlal.field. " 
NotrP Dam n's Bob Morse sturlnnt retnnlion
U.S. News and World Report, 
ratns and

director of research 
and World Hoport explains that littlP is lef't to opinion when tlrn final rankings are compilnd. 
"We busn everything: on hard rvirlnncn, and them is an exact scinncn to it," said Folkers. 
The hard nvidnncn makes it clnar that in gnnnral, Notrn Dame's competitors hav<i shown grnater improv<1m<111t 
than thn 
Univnrsity 
faculty 
rnsourccs 
W C I' P among thn higlrn:-;t in tlrn 
country, the University's stu­
d<1n t snlnctivity rating 
dropped by a fraction. Othnr 
categories usod in the rank­
in gs i11cludn alumni giving 
rat<1s and financial 
rnsOUl"C(lS. 
Most of' tlw data l'or thn 
final runking is d11rivml l'rom 
a complnx surv1iy complPt<id 
by individuals in (\ach uni­
vnrsity's public rnlations 
d<)parlnwnt. 
l><rnnis Brown, associatt' 
clirnctor of' Public Hnla1ions 
at Notre I>anrn, is not loo 
concnrn(HI with this yPar's 
011t1-positio11 drop, but strnss­
ns that thn surv<!Y is not as 
objnctivn as most p<1ople 
would believe. 
"Timm am things in !the 
survey I basnd on peopln's 
subjective opinions," he said. 
The academic rnpulation cut­
ogory, which accounts for 
25% of the final rankings, is 
based on a survey asking the 
opinion of university presi­
dents, provosts and admis­
sions dirnctors. 
Last year Hice University 
was ti<~d at 18 with Notre 
Dame, but this year Hico 
leaped to 14. 
Hob Morse, director of 
researi,;h for U.S. News and 
World Heport slrnsses that 
the rankings should be used 
as just one of many tools for 
college selection. 
"We try to design the list as an aide to the student, but just one of many available," he sairl 
"A one-position drop isn't even ono percent of the total field." Morse stresses. "Notre Dame has rnmained consistnnt over the past few years, whnrnas some othnr schools have seen dramatic movement in tlrn rankings." 
Brown adds that "most of the 11bbs and flows in the rankings arn dun to i:hang11s in [tho magazi1w'sl method­ology, "rather than r.hangns in school policins. 
• An intornsting mason that tlw Univorsity may not bP high1•r is that the rankings do not takn into account any r<w<inun from sports. nor do tlwy includ<1 rnnovations and additions such as tho new $20 million llamn11is Notrn Dnme bookstorn or th,i mod­nrnizml Main Building. 
Hegardlnss or this. Brown f'twls that. Noln\ Damn always lrnlongs "~omowhnrn in thn top 20." In the past. thn Univ,11·sit.y has fluctuat<1d from a high of IMil to a low in tho mid-30s in tlrn ynarly rankings. 
RECYCLE. 

[ 
page 8 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, August 27, 1999 
Library joins consortium for electronic, collection benefit 
ate and acquire either fuH-text or citation databases for a dis­counted rate. 
"These administrative and support activities lever.age pur­r.basing power and enable the sharing of physical resources and human expertise. The result is the development of programs that arc not possible with just local resources," said Younger. 
Notre Dame does have the ability to borrow individual vol­umes from CIC member libraries. as well as other libraries, through interlibrary loan. 
University Libraries worked informally with the NEHL in the licensing ·of the Web of Sciencti foll-text database, facilitating membership in the consortium. according to Younger. 
In addition to Harvard, Yale and Princeton Universities, the member libraries of NERL am Boston. Brown, Columbia, Cornell, New York, Hutgers, Syracuse and Temple Universities Dartmouth College, the Massachus1itts Institute of Technology and the Univorsities of Connecticut, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania and Rochester. 

By MAGGY TINUCCI As;;isrnnr News Ediwr 
The University Libraries have joinfld a consorti.um of libraries including Harvard, Ya.le, Princeton and 14 other universities in the northeastern United States. 
The Northeast. Research Libraries Consortium (NERL) focuses on electronic collec­tions developirn~nt among its 18 members, 
said. "Consortia! arrangements provide opportunities for dis­cussions. exchanges and coop­erative endeavors on adminis­trative and program activities. There are many possibilities for library cooperative arrange­ments, including the preserva­tion of physical and electronic collections, digital library initia­tives. coordinated collection development and expedited access for interlibrary borrow­ing and lending of books and journals.·· 
engaging pri­T h e marilv in the "Consortia[ arrangements decision 11 C g (/ti atiO11 provide opportunities for not to and acquisi­join the
discussions, exchanges and
tion of licens­Big TPn es for elec­cooperative endeavors or did play a tronic dat.a-role in
administrative and program
bases and joining
activities."
resources. t h e "The con-NE H L, sortiu tn puts according
Jennifer Younger 
us in with a t 0
director of Univ~rsity Libraries 
group of Younger. libraries to " T h c lrnlp idcmify NEB.I. is electronic reallv a resoun.;es to be made available substitute !'or us for licensing to us at Notre Dame." said electronic databases." she said. Jennifer Younger, director of reforring to the Committee on Universitv Librarins and mem­Institutional CoopP,ration (CIC), ber of the University's Task the library crmsortium for the 
Force on Consortia! Relations. Big Ten. 
one of eight task forces formed While the NERL does not in the spring to develop a Plan have the capacity to borrow for Academic Advance at Notre individual volumes directly Dame. from member libraries like the 
"Membership in consortia is CIC does, it does give tlrn increasingly important," she Cniversity the ability to negoti­



hiday, August 27, 1999 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
Ristau takes reins as new Dean 
By NELLIE WILLIAMS News Wrirer 
Karen Histau has assumed tlw position of vicn president and Doan or Faculty or Saint Mary's, replacing Dorothy Feig! who rnlirnd in May. 
Formerly the vice presi­dent for Academic Affairs at Saint Joseph Collcg11 in West llartf'orcl, Corm., and a mem­h1ir of tlrn faculty at the Univnrsity or St. Thomas Graduate School of Business in St. Paul, Minn., Histau brings a strong knowledge of llw classroom and women's collegns. said Marilou 1•:ldred, prnsid1\t1t of' Saint Mary's. 
"IBistnul brings a w1Hilth of' nx1wrinncn in tnaching, in addrnssing issues of' lihcral 
arts collugcs and in develop­ing programs. lier commit­ment to Catholic higher edu­cation will make her an important asset to Saint Mary's," Eldred said. 
As the daughter of a Saint Mary's alumna, Histau understands how important tradition is to the women of Saint Mary's. One of her goals will be to maintain that tradition. 
"1 feel tho pioneer spirit is still here," she said. "The spirit and tradition are a major part of this school." 
Hislau will enlist faculty members to help with this 
goal. 

"/\s l get to know the facul­ty here, I f'rel that. we can work to do this together," she said. 
Histau's is also an author, 
the key to success, discovery, to the future 
itself. 
At Hewitt, we've been putting people first for deudcs. Of coune, that's our business. We're a glo~ consulting firm speciilizing in human resource solutions. We've become m industry INder by creating ;a culture tha.t encourages te.llllwork, innontivc thinking and persona.I growth. 
Wb;at docs it mcm for you? Imagine reaching your potential. You can do it at Hewitt. Majors th;at h~ tnditioIWly been snccessful in our orgmi:r..uion: Accounting, Acruuia.I Science, Computer Scicnce. Economics, finance, Llber21. Arts, Muh, MIS, or Statistics. 
Ifyou would like to apply for ;a position, we encourage you to submit )'OW' resume on-line, bur you can ilio send it via fax. Please indicate your gcogr,1phic uu ofintucst. 
To submit on-line 
PIC.1Se visit our web site at www.hewitt.com Find the position you're interested in and fol­low the instructions for applying on-line. 
To submit ,1. hil.rd copy Fu your scmnahlc 1"5111I1f' to 8,47-771-7017, A "scannablc" resume has stmd.Hd fonts, pWn tc:ct, and is without bullets .md lines. 
At lkwitt Associates, we seek, respect, and v.tlue the divcn, qu:ilitil!S md ~ckgrounds our .associates bring to the finn, and an, com­mitted to utilizing the richness ofknowledge, ide.u, md ~riencc our diversity provides. Hewitt is an cqu.al opportunity employer. 
having published "Tho Challenge of Academic Leadership in Theological Education" in 1996. She is currently working on a new book, "Leadership Toward Community." 
"My care about philosophi­cal issues and underpinnings result from my background in leadership studies," Ristau said. 
Histau has big dreams for the students at Saint Mary's. 
"As a mother of daughters and also growing up watch• ing the changes in women's rights, I feel women need to prizn themselves in being intclligont," she said. "Young women should know some or the history on women's rights and understand that doors are open today for women." 

==============-----== ========== Shirt sales may bring students more money 
By JOSHUA BOURGEOIS News Wrirer 

Student Senate will vote today on a resolution which could enable Student Union to make more money selling The Shirt. 
If passed by the senate and approved by Student Affairs vice president Father Mark Poorman, the resolution would void the $100,000 limit on prof­il<; from T-shirt sales. Currnntly, the undergraduate government receives only half of the first $200,000 in Shirt revenue. The remaining proceeds go to chari­ty. 
Tho Student Union budget is currently limited to $580,000, student body vice president 
!i



Dining /1 '-4... -~ ·f I 1, --(· '135 S. Michigan St. Fresh prepared J,>Jnners, \ ,-'South Bend, IN 46601 Pizza,Beverages rv----~// 219-233-1000 
. --··-··-· ..--':o-_ ____ ~ ·--·-··· ·-· -··--·-·-·-----·­
Downtown South Bend's Finest Italian Dining 
Michael Palumbo said. Under the resolution, excess funds would not bo bound by that limit. 
More money for SUB 
If the cap is liftnd. some addi­tional funds would pay for administrative costs, while the rnst would fund events spon­sored by Student Union Board, a programming body limited this year hy financial problems. University restrictions and a shortage of concert funding which makes hosting big-name bands at largo venues nearly impossible. 
"For us to rnnt out the I.Joyce Center! would cost $25,000. That would not be wise. since our concert budget is 
$30,000," SUB manager Hoss 
Korr said. "Our only choice is 
to use Stepan, and that is nol 
the best venue." 
Joe Cassidy, Student 
Activities director, agreed 
Stepan is a liability in attract­
ing mainstrnam music 
groups. 
"SUB is limil<1d on what tlwy can do becaus<1 of' StPpan," Im said "Also, loca­tion makns it. dif'lkult. WP can only attract. hands during SPptPmlwr. October, March and April hP<'HUS<\ of wint<>r." 
Music groups also charg<' mor<' for <'oncnrt.s, Cassidy said, nxplaining hands usn cahl<1 tnlnvision, ratlwr than con c n rts. to promo t<1 t111' i r music. 
"It usNI to be that a group would go on tour to promot.P t h nir rn i: o r d ing . " hn s a icl . "Now. af'tnr rncording a Cll, tho group will 111ak<1 a vidno to promotn t.hnir music." 

page 10 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS Friday, August 27, 1999 
ROMANIA 
Balkans seek rewards from NATO 
And Yugoslav President
Associated Press 
Slobodan Milosevic is still in power.
BUCHAREST "There is great apathy in the

After strongly supporting 

region," said Adrian Nastase,
NATO's bombing campaign a member
leading of
against Yugoslavia, countries 
Romania's opposition. "Theof the southern Balkans are foeling is that the West hasanxiously awaiting tangible 
abandoned this area, leaving it 
rewards from the United prey to internalStates and machina­
Western 
tions and
Europe. ''The feeling is that the 
its ownDuring the 
West has abandoned this 
conflicts."
78-day air cam­
area, leaving it prey to Support
paign, tradition­for NATO
ally isolatP.u internal machinations 
among
countries such and its own conflicts." 
southern 
as Bulgaria, 
Halk an
Homania and 
countries
Adrian Nastase
Macedonia, w n
e t
which border member of Romania's 
beyond
Yugoslavia, opposition party 
rhetoric. 
were on the diplomatic cen­ter stage. 
British Prime Minister Tony Blair, Secretary of State Madeleine Albright and NATO's supreme allied com­mander, General Wesley Clark, all came calling to urge governments in the former communist countries to stand with the West. despite public sympathy for the Serbs, who share their Orthodox cultural traditions. 
Now that the bombing is over. however, southern Balkan states fear they will be forgotten, left even poorer and more isolated by the NATO campaign. 
Romania and Bulgaria allowed NATO to use their airspace to attack Yugoslavia. Macedonia served as a staging area for Western ground forces who are now in Kosovo under the June peace deal. 
That support carried a price. At least seven NATO missiles strayed over the border into Bulgaria, one of which dam­aged a house on the edge of the capital, Sofia. 
Key parts of the Danube !liver, a major trade artery to Western Europe, remain unnavigable after NATO destroyed bridges in Yugoslavia. 
BRAZIL 

Gun control triggers national debate 
Associated Press 

SAO PAULO 
The deadlv shootings at Columbine Iligh School are still echoing in Brazil, where people are divided over a radi­cal proposal to ban the sale and possession of guns. 
The April 20 shootings that left 15 dead in Colorado shocked this nation and sparked a national debate over violence. Gun control advo­cates submitted a bill to Congress in June, and their support has swelled with recent violence in Atlanta and L/Js Angr~les. 
"It's a good law that will reduce the excessive levels of violencn in our society." said 
I ­

Colonel Hui Cesar Melo, com­mander of the Sao Paulo Stale police forcn. 
Ironically, the bill also has led to the rise of a previously unknown gun lobby. The National Association of Gun Owners and Retailers, modeled on the U.S. National Rifle Association, is enlisting gun owners and lobbying lawmak­ers to vote against the bill. 
'There's no way I'm going to turn in my gun," says Luiz Afonso Santos, a founder of the association, leaning close tu be heard over the gunfire at a shooting range in Sao Paulo's posh Pacaembu dis­trict. "If' I have to, I'll break the law." 
Under the proposed mea­sure, only the armed forces, 
police and private security personnel could possess a 
firearm. 

Gun owners would have 360 davs to turn in their W()apons an·d ammunition and would receive $80 for every gun turned in. 
Opponents say the law is unconstitutional because it vio­1atcs citizens' right to self­defense. It also may be unworkable -previous efforts to disarm people in the notori­ously violent Mamba district of the eastern Amazon turned up a few rusty pistols and hunting knives. 
From the rugged outback to urban slums, Brazilians uwn an estimated 8 million guns. only 2 million of which are Ir.gaily registered. 
Attention SENIORS interested in the Rhodes, Marshall, and Mitchell Scholarships 
Professor Walter F. Pratt, Jr. will have a final meeting to inform you of deadline dates and the application process on 
Tuesday, August 31, 1999 
7:00 p.m. 129 DeBartolo 
If you are unable to attend this meeting, a sheet of information may be obtained in I 02-B o·Shaughnessy Hall after the meeting· date. 
$34 
CAMI TOP OR SKIRT 
$58 
JACKET 


Friday, At1gust 27, I 999 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
HUD: GOP tax cut will hurt poor 
A»ociatcd Pres, 
WASIIINGTON 

Nearly I 00,000 pnopln would b,\ d<'privl'd of' nl'w johs and lliousands more locked oul of afl'ordahln housing undPr COP proposnd budg,it cuts, the Clinton administra­tion says. 
/\ rnporl rPkasPd Thursday by llw Departmn11L of' !lousing and Urhan l>PV!'.lopmenl ddails how $1.(i billion in hudgnt cuts proposnd by 1hn llous<' Appropriations Committoc in July would alfoct commtmitios bucause ol' tlrn numlwr of jobs that won't b,~ creal,~d and housing that won't l,1· availahl1· to low­income 1woplP. 
In addilio11 lo tlin 'J7 .000 
JH1opln who wouldn't lw n m p Io yNI. th n r ,qio rt s a id I56,000 l'amili1is would Im lorkPd out or affordabl(• hous­ing and I1,,000 l'amilins and individuals who am honwloss or who havo AIDS would los!' housing a.s'.-;istarn:ri. 
"This nntion is rl11i11).{ nx1ra­ord inari ly W!'II ... but that's not to say r•vciryonn, nvnry­wlwr1: is sharing in tlw suc­cPss." housing SIH'.rl'tary Andri•w Cuomo said. "That 
"Congress shouldn't rob the poorest Americans to provide reckless tax cuts and create a new de.licit. Now is the time to inl'est in a brighter future for people and places left behind. " 
Andrew Cuomo secretary for Housing and Urban Development 
makos tho cuts all tho murc 01wrous." 
Ilowcvor, ltep. (lick Lazio. H-N.Y., chairman of Urn Ilouse SubcommiW\f' on !lousing and Community Opportunity, issu1)d a statement in response to lhn IIUD rnport accusing !IUD officials of "trying to scorn political points at the oxpensn of our most vulnera­ble." 
Lazio said a (;overnmenl Accounting Of1ice study found I IUIJ had rn{1unsted $700 mil­lion for 18 new programs "inslcad of f'ocusing on its core mission." · 
"While rnsidnnts of' assistml housing prop<'rties were faced with the thrnat of' losing their 
homes ... IIUD's budget reduced new housing con­struction funding for senior citizens, our fastest-growing and most vulnerable popula­tion,'' Lazio's statement said. 
Prnsident Clinton had pro­posed a $2 billion increase l'or the department in J'iscal year 2000, up from $28.5 billion this year. 
Clinton has threatened to veto the committee's spending plan because of llrn cuts, but H.opubliean budget writers say they had to make them to stay wilhin spending caps that were imposed two years ago. 
Appropriations Committ.eo spokeswoman Elizalrnth Morra said tho cuts were m,ide in specific programs, ratlrnr than across the board, and that "some tough choices had to be made." 
Cuomo attributed the need f'or sev,ire cuts to the HUD budgcl to a 10-year, $792 bil­lion tax reduction that the GOP-led Congress approved earlier this month. 
"Congrnss shouldn't rob the poorest Americans to provide reckless tax cuts and create a new del'icit," Cuomo said. "Now is the time to invest in a brightnr future for p1'ople and places loft behind." 
Group sues Atlanta over contract quotas 
tional.

. Suit challenges 
In a key 1989 decision, thoaffirmative action court struck down a policy in majority Hichmond. Va., affirmative­
action plan and made it far
black city 
more difficult for communi­ties nationwide to set aside certain percentages of jobs,
AssodateJ Press 
construction contracts or 

ATLANTA other sought-artor troatmont 
A nationwide anti-affirma­for racial minorities. tive action group sur.d Glavin is calling for Urn city Atlanta on Thursday for its to use a race-neutral pro­policy of setting aside a third gram to givn a percnntago of of' city contracts for women­r.ontracts to local or small and minority-owned busi­and disadvantaged compa­nesses. nies. In several recent bat­
The Southeastern Legal tles, many communilios have Foundation given in to th11 had thrcat­foundation's•
"/don't think we'll
cnod the fed­demands rather eral suit for settle. We'll just let than risk a months, while long, costly
Matt Glavin and that 
Mayor Bill court battle.
bunch ofracists file
Campbell and Earlier this othr.r black their suit and do the year, tlw threat politicians of' a lawsuit
best they can." 
vowed to from the foun­fight "to the dation forced 
BIiiy McKinney
death." thn DnKalb Atlanta, state representative Counly school 
Interested in joining a Club but don't know where to get started? 
Saint Mary's College 
Ji(f~tJrlIVIITJilE~ NIICGIBilf Il~~~ 
Monday, August 30 6:00 -8:00 PM Angela Athletic Facility 
BE THERE!!! 
Notre Dame Rowing Club 
birthplace of 
the Hev. 

Martin Luthor King Jr. and a 
proud symbol of black eco­

nomic achievement, started 
thn program in 1975 under 
Maynard Jackson, the city's 
first black mayor. 

Campbell, who as a child 
was the first black to inte­
grate a North Carolina school 
system, has previously 
likened the foundation to tlw 
Ku Klux Klan. 

"The program has strengthened our economy and helped remedy past and present discrimination," Campbell said Thursday. "Diversity and equal opportu­nity have made our city appealing and great." 
The foundation's president, Matthew Glavin, began his challenge on .lune 14 with a letter to Campbell demanding that tlrn city abandon the program or f'ace a lawsuit. On Thursday, Glavin said he was still willing to negotiate, though he said any settle­ment would require that the city abolish the program. 
"You can't brnak the law just a little bit," he said. "Tho program will end either vol­untarily or by court order." 
In 1995, the Supreme Court has curtailed the foderal gov­ernment's freedom to give special help to racial minori­ties. /\ffirmativo action foes argue that set-asides hand out work on tlrn basis of rac,1 and am therefore unconstitu­
board to abol­
ish a voluntary busing program that allowod blacks to attend primarily whiti1 schools. 
Last year the foundation forced Atlanta's school sys­tem to agree to a two-year ban on mandatory racial hir­ing goals. /\nd in Florida, the group succnssf'ully chal­lnnged .Jacksonville's set­aside program for contracts. 
The group won pnrhaps its biggest victory earlicir this year in a suit against. the Clinton administration over its statistical sampling plan for the 2000 cnnsus. The Supreme Court disallowed the plan, which was ex1rncted to increase the numlrnr ol' minorities counted. 
"I don't think wn'II snttl,1," said state Hep. Billy McKinney, D-Atlanta. "We'll just let Matt Glavin and that bunch of' racists filn their suit and do the best they can." 
The Atlanta area has been an economic success story for blacks, with a thriving black middle class·. .lust out­side the city limits, southwest DeKalb County, wlrnrn many well-to-do and middln-class blacks have movnd i11 the past 15 years, is the wnalthi­nst predominantly black com­munity in the nation outside of' Princn c;norge's County in Maryland. 
About two-thirds of the city's 400,000 residnnts am black. 

• Nationwide Travel 
•Men medaled at prestigious regattas in 
• 
IntercoI lcgiate Competition south and east 


• Meet new people • Meet hundreds of new recruits on the women's team Informational Meeting on Thursday, September 2 107 Hesburgh Library at 8:00 PM ()ucslions? Ed (Pres.) X2265 Sam (Capt.) 287-3006 *Look for us August 31st at Activities Night* 


·­

------. 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE page 12 BSERVER Friday, August 27, 1999 
THE OBSERVER 
l'.O. Bo, Q, Notre Dame. IN 46556 0~4 South Dining Hall. Norre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Michelle Krupa 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
M. Shannon Ryan  David Rogcro  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  
Laura Petelk  

NEWS EDITOR: Tim Logan VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughcn SPORTS EDITOR: Rrian Kessler 
SCENE EDITOR: Michael Vanegas SAINT MARY'S .EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Dahm, 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Rryan Lutz 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Bree Huelat SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers WEil ADMINISTRATOR: Frik Kushro 
CONTROLLER: Timothy lane GRAPHICS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 

CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGEl!IGENERAL INF0..............6.'l 1-7471 FAX............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING .................................... 631-6900/8840 
obscrver@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN ClllH........................................631-4542 MANAGING Em1011/Ass1. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE ................................631-5313 NEWS.......... ................................631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT. ................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinr. l@nd.edu SPOIITS.......................................................•631-4543 observer.spam. l@nd.edu SCENE................. .........................631-4540 observer.scene. I@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S..... . ....................... 631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATOIIS ................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit mir Web sire at http://observer.nd.edu for daily ~pd:ues ofcampus news, spores. features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 

minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 

advenise for policies 
online features for spe­

and rares ofprim ads 
cial campus coverage 

archives to search for 
about The Observer 

articles published atter 
to meet the editors and 

August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES · 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. Acting as pub­lisher ofThe Observer, the administration of the University of Notre Dame du Lac prohibits the adver­tisemenr ofalcohol and The Observer's acceptance of advertisements from specified types ofgroups. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofrhe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available co all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Qtmt,ons rrgardmg Observrr policies should be direct­ed to Editor i11 ChiefMichelle Krupa. 

Thirty years ago this week, I walked out of Lyons i--lall for my first stroll across campus as a Notre Dame fresh­man. Full of confidence and youthful pride, I passed through the Howard arch, made a few 
turns and promptly got lost. It took me an hour to find Lyons, and it took at least a month to regain my confi­dence. 
Two weeks ago, I walked out of the 


West Wing of the White House along Gary Caruso the Rose Garden during one of my first strolls alone at Capitolthe Executive 
Comments 
Mansion. 

Full of confidence and pride of profes­sional accomplishment, I turned left at the residence only to find my usual route closed due to construction. I turned right to proceed around the South Portico, but found that door locked. 
With the President's limousines parked a few feet away, I knew he would soon be leaving the Oval Ollice, and I wanted out of there fast. 
Following a path away from the Oval Office but towards the limousines, I stopped at the end of a maze with hedges on thre~ sides of me. Feeling my neck turn red and beginning to sweat profusely, 1asked one of the grounds keepers wearing a Smokey­the-Bear hat for help. It took me three minutes to find a new route, but it will probably take another three weeks to regain my conlidence. 
The past three summer months have been as glorious a dream for me as the first three weeks of my freshman year in 1969. Meeting presidential advisors who frequently speak on the Sunday morning talk shows is as exciting for me today as was meeting the head foot­ball coach thirty years ago. Watching President and Mrs. Clinton enter the South Lawn for his birthday celebration rekindled an overwhelming thrill I first felt the evening the door of Notre Dame President Ted Hesburgh opened before . me. 
Throughout my professional career, I have shaken the hands of presidents and royalty, movers and shakers in both the public and private sector, as well as with those who simply consider themselves ordinary Americans. During that time it was mostly as a professional affiliated with the U.S. House of Representatives ... the Legislative Branch of government. On each such occasion, my thoughts flashed back to my first week as a Notre Dame freshman. 
During my alumnus years, I served as president of the area Notre Dame alumni club and served in several advi­sory capacities both on campus and with the alumni club. 1have attended bowl games when Notre Dame has won the national championship, played games of the century like the 31-30 win over '.\tliami and suffered through embarrassing upsets. Inevitably,·some action during those games reminds me of mv freshman season of Notre Dame football. 
My journey through life has come full circle this summer. I consider myself one of the luckiest persons afliliated with Notre Dame or the Federal gov­ernment. I enjoy every day of work and appreciate my Notre Dame roots with­out becoming a senseless sports fanat­
ic. Sometimes I wonder while I am pet­ting the president's dog, Buddy, that if someone may pinch me, I'll discover that I really am in a dream world. 
Regardless ofone's political or reli­
. gious beliefs, the institution of the pres­idency and the Notre Dame institution both hold powerful symbolism. Both have natural opposition, some friendly and loyal while others are mean and vindictive. I lind it ironic that my visit to campus this weekend will expose me to confrontations from both types of "natural opponents." 
While visiting a fellow Domer after our graduation, I helped him deliver groceries from his family's Kansas store, but tomorrow I will be the friend­ly, loyal opposition to Kansans. Many staunchly loyAl Notre Dame Catholics will view me as a "Clinton Cafeteria Catholic," which I am, and chide me for my affiliation with the President. 
Throughout the weekend, as through­out my life, a small part of my fresh­man experience will shine through my conduct. Thirty years ago this wide­eyed teenager trekked on campus with Woodstock and the landing of a man on the moon fresh from his summer vaca­tion. 1 fell into the "freshman friendly" mode which lasts the first few weeks of the lirst semester -namely, being open to strangers regardless of person­al beliefs or physical attributes and easily making them a friend. 
While the "freshman friendly" atti­tude fades as the school year progress­es, it does rekindle during life. That sig­nificant Notre Dame quality has been recharged within me during my lirst summer at the White House. It is a marvelous characteristic to have, espe­cially if you run into someone from Kansas on campus this weekend. 
Gary J. Caruso, 73, currenlly is serv­ing in the Clinton administration as a Congressional and Public Affairs Director and worked at the U.S. !louse ofRepresentatives for 17 years. His col­umn appears every other Friday. lie can be reached at Hotlline@aol.com. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
DILBERT 
WE C~N 5AVE MON£'< 
BY CUTTING U5E:D Pt>..9£R INTO LITTLE. 
5QUf...RE5 TO U5E AS 
NOTE. Pt,..0$. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
NOT COUNTING THE. Tll"\E I.T TOOK 
l"\E. TO PRINT THE 
~lt,..NK ?to.GE$. 
i:;; 

.,___..~;;...;~:;;...------'-;;;-------------­
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Prayers work better when the players are big. " 
Frank Leahy fonner Notre Dame head football coach 
VIEWPOINT 
O
IHE Friday, August 27, 1999 BSERVER page 13 
EDITORIAL 
~""­ &t-\C..  
~~  
>~  ~I-\(.  !i"'1'­ sl-\c..  
::,MC.­ 
<:,,t-1.C­ 

sr,,v:,,. 
St--\C. 
SHc.. 

11, 
51-\G. 5,t\(, 

li'. 
y\l tit-lC.. 

'% ~~(, 
<o t-'\ G-Gt"L

1/ 
I/. 
I/ 
I/. //
1/ 
~IJ7. 

I/. I/ 
SMC still strong 
Tl11• ha111wr proclaiming "Bravo!" in front of' Saint Mary's C:ollngP won't lw rPplacPCI this ynar by 01w boasting six­straighl No. I titlns. 
/\flPr livf' ynars at tlw lop of U.S. Nr,ws and World RPpnrt's annual col!Pgt• rankings, Saint Mary's lost its stronghold as tlH' lll'st n•gional lilrnral arts school hy one pnrccntagc point. 
But this is tlw y11ar the Collngn proved ilsnlf'worthy of' an ovation. Tlw administration rncnntly has taken bold steps to Pnhancl' and nnsurn Saint Mary's growth. Action and plan­ning highlighll•d tlw ynar. strl'ngllwning and oxciting Urn Coll1•g1i community. 
Approving Urn l'Prf'orma Mastnr Plan. joining tlw Michigan lntnrcoll11giatn /\thlnlic Association, boosting onrnllment and nwarnping wchnology am invnstmnnts that support Saint Mary's 1'11t111·11 as tlw nation's prnmiorn Catholic women's col­lng1i. 
Thn Collngn was right to lakn pridn in the previous No. I rankings, but magazilw ratings woren 't tho clr,ciding factor for most stuchlnls who chosn Saint Mary's. The las! half­drn'.adt> ol' I.op rankings only confirmnd what the Collr.ge has strivnd to provn in its 155 years of educating women. 
Tlw inlangihles am what provide Saint Mnry's with an Pdge. Tlw s<'hool of'fr•rs immeasurahlti bmwfits from personal attnntion, inspiring prol'nssors and an outstanding reputa­tion. 
Although llillsdale College earned this·ynar's top spot. tlwrp's IHI r1mson to cringe at Saint Mary's sticond-place nn:. ish. 
If' ratings warrant acclaim, Saint Mary's still can back itself' up. It has been listml in the top. IO all 13 years ul' the maga­zi1w 's survny. Of' 139 schools survoyrd f'or the 11)99 poll. the C:ol1,ig11 f'inish1'd with a <J<J pr.rrnnt ovurall scorn and thn bost graduation rain al 87 pnrn~nt. 
This yPai-'s ovPrnll rank, hownver, dews providn a rPmindnr: Saint Mary's is not perfoct. Chango is nnedud. llrn:rniling and rPtaining minority students rnmains a con­n·n1. Demands for h1)ttnr athletic equipmirnt and support for studPnt athll'lns also arn necessary. 
But the important thing is Saint Mary's rncognizrs and acts to improve -mayb11 now more than ever. 
l'Prhaps 1rnxl yPar, Saint Mary's will rnclaim No. I. !\nd if' it dorsn't. Saint Mary's rw1HI not panic and stray from its cur­n•nl path toward PXrPll(•n<,n. 
Sainl 1\fory's No. I sign may comr down, hut that dorsn't lllPan its prid,· should follow. 
speak up. 
viewpoi11.t. l@nd.edu 
Putting Violence in Context 
"Our chilclrPn nocd our lwlp to deal with Lough graphical-unity from Urn North to l.lw South l'olr" issuns, likP violcncn. Plnaso. talk with your kids," with a "unity of cllistiny unique in tlw world." In said l'rnsidnnt Clinton in a recnnt TV spot. But Ecclrsia in Anwrica (EA). Im chart1·d a program f'or what am tlrn parents supposnd to say? "tlrn now flVangnlization ol' Anrnrica." HA shows 
Why havr wn had sprctac:ular violence at that tlw moral teaching of'tlrn Church is 1111 intP-Columhilw lligh School and other places? Many grat1•d whol11. "llll'we accrpt," said Moth£·r 'l'<'rPsa, say tlw solution is morn than gun control. But tlrn "that. a mothrr can kill nvnn lrnr own child. how answnr is derpPr. can wn tdl other people not to kill mw anol.lwr'?" 
For a hint, let us consider =~~, Th<~ nrrors that can lead us to rngard the unborn. "a talP of' two cities." That or fnllow stuclPnts. as disposablr ohjrcts, can histpr was how Cardinal Francis an objectification of rnnployens, immigrants and G1iorg11 describer! the contnL'it others. "II In Amnrica," according to l!A, "a modi'! brtwN1n tlw pope's visits last of'socirty !isl rmerging in which tlw powprf'ul prn-January to Mnxico City and St. dominatP (lVIHl diminating Lim pow1lrkss: I am l ,ouis. thinking of' victims of' abortion landI nut.hanm;ia; 
In Mnxiro City, young volun-and I.ho many othnr p11ople rnlligated to tlrn mar­tnnrs handled ('.rowel control, ~_ ___._____J gins of' socinty by consun111risrn and matnrialism. policn prnsnnrn wa!;i unobtru-Nor can I f'ail to mnntion tlrn unnnwssary rncoursn
Charles Rice

sivc and tho popn was able to tlm dnath penalty," (EA. No. (di. 
"to visit thn city itsllif'. to greet -------ldnas hav11 consnqunnces. In abortion, nuthana­
hundrncls or thousands of pno-sia and tlw doath pmrnlty, wn use' tlw intentional 
pin, to bn among thnm." Right or infliction of dnath as a problnm-solving tndrniq1111. 
In St. Louis, the Sccrnt Wrong? In the pursuit of' global free tradn, omployens on Service chos11 to "eliminatn .. . both siclns of' tlrn border arn trnatl'd. not as 1wr­as much contact between sons. but as interrhangnabll' ohjPcL'i. The Illinois pope and pnople as possible ... Fm every ... person worknr losns his job br,cause tlw corporation ran on the sidnwalks. them worn. it seemed, two police pay a 15-y,rnr-old girl in a maquiladora in Tijuana o!licers ... Everything wtts secure; but contact, 1(> emits to make the shirt it will sell for $2:i. "In human rnlationship, was krpt to a minimum." tJw absencn of moral points of' niferencr," says I•:/\. 
It was "a contrast bntwnnn a culturo of rnlation-"an unbridlnd gwml for wealth and pow1ir lakes ship and 01rn of' autonomy, a culturn of communion over. 11\n many cmmtrins of' Amerir.a. a systmn to one of control ... Perhaps thn ... violence and known as "nnolibcralism" prnvails: basnd on a sociopathy am so high in our country that the prn-pun·ly economic conception of' man, this systnm cautions worn nocnssary ... llln Urn United States considers prolit and the law of'Llw marknt as its today rnlationships am suspect because they only paranrntcrs. to tho dntrinwnl of' Uw dignity of' thrnat,m control: relationships will be sacrificed individuals and 1woplo. ITllw poor arc lmcoming l'or the sake of' control," (Origins, Feb 18, ~'VPJ"nwn1 numerous, victims of' polici1is 1999, 609). d structures which are often 
The Cardinal was neitlrnr idealiz-unjust." ing Mexico City nor disparaging EA invites tlrn natiom, of'
~----~~Ill 

St. Louis and those who partic-\ Anwrica to learn from onn ipated in thn papal evenlq ~====::::-r \another. "01rn of' thn great 
tlwre. But his comments may/ blessings to the Nnrlh," said 
help us understand how our ~'""""\l'!Y.la'I Archbishop Charlos Chaput c11lturn can spawn an Eric of Denver, "is the immigra­1larris iU.ld aDylan Klcbold, ;· tion of' so many pnoplc 
who killnd J:3 others and f'rom thn South ITlhcy may thnmsdvos at Columbine. be the salvation of tlrn 
What tlw Cardinal was £::;;;;:;;.;.. 
Church in the C11it11d hinting at was described Statos, b111'.aUSI' they bring by John Paul II as an with tlwm a spirit and ... "Ii individualism ... in a deep kind of faith that which the subject does will rrkindle and m-rn1liv­what he wants, in which en tlrn faith of thn North." he himsdf is the one to "On a continent marked 'i,stablish the truth' of by competition and whatever lrn linds pleasing aggrnssiwness rim-
or useful ... Individualism --~--~~-¦lllllllliilir sumerism and corruption,"thus remains egocentric and John Paul urges lay poopln 
selfish," (Letter to Familios. "'IMllll••I"' "to embody values such as no. 14). This "notion of' free-1/" mercy, forgiveness, honesty, dom ... Pxalts the isolated indi-NtL • transparency of heart and 
vidi.ial in an absolutl' way and • patience," (EA, No. 441. llo invites gives no place to solidarity. to open-"(y]oung Christians trained to havn ness to others and service of' them," a mature missionary consciousness" to (Evangfllium Vitae, No. 19). --"become apostles to young people wher-
This individualism arises from secularism and ever they arn f'ound: in schools, universitirs, tho relativism. In truth, you am your brother's keoper workplace, tho countryside," (EA, No. 47). 1111 calls bemuse you arn both children of God made in his on Catholic univnrsities to prns11rve their Catholic image and likeness. But "when the sense of God is orientation. The education they impart should lost, them is also a tendency to lose the sense of make constant refenmce to .Jnsus Christ and his man, of'his dignity and his life," (E.V., No. 21). m,1ssagn as the Church prosenl<; it in lwr dogmatic Other pnopln am se<m as objects for use and possi-and moral tfiaching. Only in this way will they train ble disposal. When objnctive truth is denied truly Christian leaders," (No. 71 ). through relativism, nach person claims "thr, prn-EA shows that the answnr to violr.nc1; lies in a rogative of' independently determining the criteria conversion of mind and hnart. "At a time wlwn !'; of good and evil and then acting accordingly. Such there is a disturbing sprnad of rnlativism and sub-an outlook is congnnial to an individualist ethic," j(ictivism, the Church in America is callml to pro­(Failh and Hoason. No. 98). "If' the promotion of the claim that convnrsion consisl'> in commitment to self' is undnrstood in terms of' absolute autonomy," tlw person of' .Jesus Christ, with all thn theological said John I'aul II, "people inevitably reach the and moral implications· taught by thr Magist1ffi11m point of' rejm:ting ono anotlrnr. Everyone elsn is of' tlrn Church," (No. :i:{). John Paul II cannot Im considrred an enemy from whom one has to dismissnd as if he wnrn somr Polish tourist living in dnl'end onnsnll'. Thus society bncomes a mass of' Homu. Hathnr "ltlhc Vicar of'Christ is "tlm e11d11r­individ11als placnd side by side. but without any ing principle of unity and the visible l'ounclation ol' mutual bonds. Each onn wishes to make his own thn Church," (No. :nl. Wn ought to follow him. interes.ts provail," (EV. Nos. 1 lJ-20). As the sense of' I hope Notro Damn students will rnad Ecdnsia in God. of' an ohjnctive moral law and of one's inhnr-.r\nrnrica. It pul'> a lot of' things, inrluding violnnw, nnl relation to otlwrs. diminishes, only force can in context. And it may bn tho lowost-pricnd ilPm keep the pnaw in the absnnce of those inner you will nver buy in the Bookstore. restrains. And evnn in a police state, forcible rnslraint cannot Im fully effective. l'r<!fc•ssorRice is on the I.aw .','chool }<tC'lllf!f. I/is 
So what is to hi' ctonn'! I .el mn pass on an invita­m/11mn appears <'l'<'T,lf other Friday .. tion f'rom John Paul II. While acknowledging diffor­'11w l'ieu•s <'.rpres~wd in this m/1111111 are thosl' ,![ nnc1is among countrins. hn spoke in Mexico City of the author and 11ol 11ccPssarily /./1mw ofThe "Amnrira" in tlw singular, as "a human and gPn-Ohsenwr. 

O
THE page 14 BSERVER Friday, August 27, 1999 

ND skies 
FIVE IMPORTANT THINGS TO KNOW ABOUT A 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL WEEKEND 

1. The marching band is cool 
The Band of tllP Fighting Irish is a nonstnp marching machine. Usually given at least two wmiks to prepare for its first halftime per­formance, tbe band finds iL-;df' with only one week to spit out a show for Saturday's game against Kansas. Not only dmis the band add spirit to the actual game, but it performs throughout the wBekend at various spot-; around campus. 
As tlw band plays tlm large array of Notre Dame songs -from the victory march to "Notre• Dame, Our Mother" -be sure to play along with whatever hand movemenL-; may go along with nach song. 
. 
Notre Damn. Our Mnlher: Sway to and fro with arms around nnighbors 

. 
1812 Overture: Wave "'b''-and "d"-shaped hands back and forth 

. 
Notre Dame Victory March: Clap hands and sing 

. 
When Irishbacks Go Marching By: Clap hands 

. 
Dm-vn the Line: Clap hands 


2. People begin football Saturday early 
In th£~ form of tailgating. a good number of Notre Dame fans rise early Saturday morning to begin preparation for the after­noon's football game. Ingesting anything from brats and ale to soda in a can. Irish tailgaters add a free-spirited tinge to the crisp fall mornings, particularly the occasional bagpipe-player tooting the victory march throughout the campus. 
The morning is also marked by the exquisite aroma that emanates from Port-a-Pit, as in barbeque pit, which is located by the JACC each Saturday morning. 
-


3. Candlelight dinner at the dining hall 
Following every home game, both dining halls sponsor a candle­light dinner. bringing out balloons and candles to celebrate Notre Danrn football, win or lose. Just as with Saturdav brunch. the din­ing halls rnceive a good amount of business f~om non-stud1mts, particularly alumni or parents of students. C:onsidPring tlwre is usually a crowd at regular dinners, expect candlelight dinners to be espncially crowded and chaotic. 
Tho menu at candlelight dinners is usually a notch above tlrn typical dining hall menu. Unfortunately, most of the itPms on the menu have distractingly exotic names, such as new-scored rose­mary potatoes or German Swiss cheese soup. ls it German or Swiss? Only the dining hall knows. 
4. Post-game prayer 

Thirty minutes after the football game, several Masses will take place thi·oughout campus. Thny occur in the chapels at the follow­ing dorms: Alumni, Cavanaugh, Dillon. K11cnan-Stanford, Morrissey, Siegfried and Walsh. Mass is also cnlcbrated at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart 30 minutes following tlrn game, and at Stepan Center 45 minutes after the game. 
5. Visitors abound 

Each Notre Dame football game brings a contingent of alumni, parents and non-student fans, so be careful not to do anything that will get you mentioned or pictured in Monday's newspaper. Though such b(ihavior is commonly accepted, it is not necessary. 

The 1998 Notre Dame marching band spells out "IRISH" before a game last season. Look for the band to experiment with an interlocking ND this Saturday at the Kansas game. 
...­
w E 
ceneN D 
l~ri<lay, August 27, 1999 osstRVER page 15 

!: 
Facts about the University ofKansas 
. 
Location: Lawre11ce, Kansas 


. 
Student body population: 28,000; 2/3 from Kansas 

. 
Conference: Big 12 

. 
Mascot: the jayhawk 

. 
Colors: Crimson and Blue 


. 
Words to school song, "I'm a Jayhawk": 


Talk about the Sooners The Cowboys and the Buffs, Talk about the Tiger and his tail, Talk about the Wildcats, and those Cornhuskin' boys, But I'm the bird to make 'em weep and 
wail. 
CHORUS: 'Cause I'm a Jay, Jay, Jay, Jay, Jayhawk, Up at Lawrence on the Kaw 'Cause I'm a Jay, Jay, Jay, Jay, Jayhawk, With a sis-boom, hip hoorah. Got a bill that's big enough To twist the Tiger's tail Husk some corn and listen To the Cornhusker's wail ­'Cause I'm a Jay, Jay, Jay, Jay, Jayhawk, Riding on a Kansas gale. 
C.R. TEODORO/The Observer 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, August 27, 1997 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 

Holtz ready to turn around another college program 
the worst season (1-10l in school dflpart1mmt or parks. recreation 
By RICHARD ROSENBLAT 

history. and tourism. AP Foorball Wrirer 
On Sept. 4, he'll lead his new For this mission, Hultz isn't on team against NC State in a one-man crusade. He brought COLUMBIA. S.C. Raleigh. Then, it's on to Georgia. much of. the Holtz Household LouMania is evervwherc. One-two. Good luck. with him, including his wife, On a bumper stfcker: "llalle­"We have to change the cul­Beth, who he says has been LOU~jah!" ture here," Holtz said. "We have gaining strength in her fight On T-shirts: "In LOU We to build confidence. hut it's with throat cancer. "She's mv Trust."" tough goirig on the road against first priority, always," he said, 
i\t a recent football clinic for nrnybe the besl NC StatB team "a·vory courageous woman." women. wlrnrn 1,200 showPd up tlH'y've had in years, then And Lou Holtz rnturned to for a daylong chalk talk with Georgia, and then playing school so he could coach, moti­Lou. Tennessee, Florida and vate and turn a program that 
In the words of !vfike McGee, Arkansas." has a singh~ l 0-win season into South Carolina's athletic direc­Ile couldn't stay serious for a cnntend1~r in· I.he rugged tor, who. upon hP.aring Lou long. though. Asked about his Snutheastflrn Conference. Holtz agree to become the timetabl1: for success, Holtz said: He's out to show the faithful G:tmecocks' coach, turned to his ''I'd like to have this thing fans, who fill the 80,250-seat wife. looked to the heavens and turned around by the seronrl stadium no matter how ugly the said: "Thank you, Lord." quarter of Sept. 4." losing gets, tlrnir prayers have 
Tht1 Lou Holtz Revival Show From the duv Holtz arrived, been answered. lie wants to end has arrived. right h~'rfl in when a cn1wd of 4,000 the "chicken curse," a bex 
,. 
I Columbia. and settled in !'or appeared on just thrnc hours' placed on the school near the 
I 
what the coach promises will bf' not.ire for his Dec. 4 nows con-turn of tlw cr.ntury by Sen. Ben anoth1:r successful riesurrection 1'0.nrn ct' in Williams-Brice "Pitchfork" Tillman, who found­sLory. So what. he says. if Lhe Stadium, much of the state has ed Clemson benwse he didn't prog,:am has just 01111 howl victo­bem1 in a kind or. well. de-LOU­lih all the "bluebloods in ry in l 05 years of playing foot­rium. (The fans who aren't root Columbia," ball. for rival Clemson, which has a Holtz plai1s to keep the best 
"I believe you can win here," new coach of its own, Tommy high school players home (he Iloltz said. 'Tm just not sure it Bowden). · started by signing tailback will be as quit:kly as I'd like LO." When Holtz kidded about all Derek Watson, Soiith Carolina's 
At every other place hP-'s been the trash he saw on the statA "Mr. Football"), knock off a -William & Mary, North highways, an antilitter cam­Florida, Georgia or Tennessee at Carolina State, Arkansas, paign began and a "Clean the some point soon, and take Cocky Minnesota and Notre Dame -Roads" task force was formed. and Co. to a major bowl for the the short, fragile-looking 62-When the school asked for first time. South Carolina has 
The Gamecocks do have a few promise those beliefs. I don'tyear-old coach with a lisp has money in the spring, Gamecocks plenty of' history, it just needs a players with star quality in run­compromise them with the play­add(!d to his reputation as col­boosters answered with a record little winning tradition to go with ning back Boo Williams and fren ers of today,"lege football's Great Reviver. $10.3 million -$8.4 million in it. 
safety Arturo Freeman. The Freeman, a prnseason all;SEC
Ile even had the Golden cash. "We raise more money per The lobby at the Kay and 
offensivn and defensive lines are choice before h11 ripp11d up hisGophers, who lost 17 Big Ten win than anv school in the coun­Eddie Floyd Football Building weak, the talent pool is shallow, knee and missed the '98 season,ganrns in a row before he try," Holtz ·has said dozens of could use some new hardware, but Holtz showed he means would have been in the NFL byarrived in Minneapolis, in the times since replacing Brad Scott. too. 
business when he expelled tail­now.
Independence Bowl in his sec­Hotel rooms around town The only keepsake hanging 
back Troy Hambrick, the team's "I think my injury happenedond and final season there. were booked quicker than ever around on a recent visit was leading rusher in '98, for off-so I could come back and play
So. now he takes on his final for the Gamec.ocks" six home George Hogers' 1980 Heisman 
field problems. -for somebody the caliber ofand toughest coaching task -games. "We ought to put him on Trophy, plus the large stainless "I am unique in a certain coach Holtz," Freeman said. "I
making winners out of the the front of our travel guide," steel sculpture of a Gamecock 
respect," Holtz said. "I have cer feel really blessed."
Gamecocks, who arc coming off said Lou Fontana of the state that came with the 3-year-ol 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. co 3 p.m. ar rhe Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edir
CLASSIFIEDS 

all classifieds for content wirhout issuing refunds. 
..  NOTICES Visit The Observer on the web at http: I/observer. nd .edu/ HEY FROSH LOOKING FOR THE MOST POPU­LAR CLUB SPORT ON CAMPUS? LOOK NO FURTHER THAN THE MEN'S CREW TEAM. (YES, THAT IS ROWING FOR THOSE OF YOU WESTERNERS.) LOOK FOR THE OARS ON ACTIVITY NIGHT AND SIGN UP!!!! Suppressed Dead Sea Scrolls Research:http://www.geocities.com: 80/ Athens/Rhodes/7031 ldeadsea. h !ml-LOST & FOUND LOST: MEN'S PRESCRIPTION GLASSES STOLEN OUT OF CAR NEAR O'NEILL HALL IN AUGUST.  FRATERNITIES,SORORIT!ES and STUDENT GROUPS: Earn $1000· 2000 with easy CIS Fund Raiser event.No sales required.Fund Raiser days are filling up.so call today. Contact Andrea 800-829-4777 Prof needs babysitter for two young girls. Flex. hrs. nights, weekends. Call 631-6268 or 289· 6239. STUDENT OPENINGS 5-30 hrs./week. Flex. with classes. Scholarships avail www.workforstudents.com/lN 282-2357 INTRAMURAL OFFICIALS Officials needed for Flag Football, Baseball, & Fastpitch Softball. Earn good money, meet new peo­ple, & have fun! Experience helpful, but we will train everybody. Contact the RecSports office-Brandon Leimbach or · Jeff Walker@ 631-6100, or stop by the office in the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center.  Part-time big brother/big sister needed for after-school childcare for 2 boys. Weekdays (MWF possible) 3:00­5:00pm. Must like sports, be good with chil· dren and have reliable car. Call Angela @ 234-2211 (days) or 271-8224 (eves.) ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE HOME FOR ND-SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 243-0658. FOR RENT Country setting, studio apt. in Clay Twp. incl. furnishings, garage park­ing & utilities. Non-smoker, no pets. Quiet a must. $465/mo. Call Daniel 219-272-3160 or Gecko13@earthlink.net 3 bdrm duplex, remodeled. 503 Eddy, one mile from campus, Appliances, W/D. 273-8332  BED AND BREAKFAST Your "home away from home" for football and other ND events. Private horne 5 min. from campus. Queen & twin beds, private baths, & extras. Call 219-272-9471. Furn. 1 bdrm. apt., air, phone, laun­dry, utilities paid. 1 mi. N. campus, 272-0615. NICE HOUSE CLOSE TO ND GOOD AREA NORTH 2773097 EFFICIENCY APT. AVAILABLE HOME GAMES. TOLL RD. EXIT 96. ELKHART. 30 MINS. FROM STADIUM. 1·219-264-1755 Bed and breakfast football week· ends. near campus. call219-277­6832 (day), 219-272=5989 (night). Free Rent!!! Roommate left school.,.parents forcing me to find a roommate. 2 bedr Turtle Creek Apt. Call Kelli 247-1704.  Spring Break Specials!Bahamas Party Cruise 5 Days $279! Includes Meals! Awesome Beaches,Nightlife!Cancun & Jamaica 7 Nights From $399! Florida $129!springbreaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 CARPET FOR SALE $40 Great condition, grey. Call Bryan at X 3593 NEW Prepaid Phone Cards!!! $20 ->669 minutes Call 243-9361, ask for Rob 2 SENIOR STUDENT FOOTBALL TICKETS CALL 4-1109 or 4-2317 FOR SALE: 2 tickets to Purdue & Stanford. Call Chris 248-449-2734 twistagogo@aol.com. 2 TIX FOR ND-KS. 232-1985.  FOR SALE: ND-KS GA TIX. AM -232-2378 PM · 288-2726 BUYING and SELLING N D FOOT­BALL TICKETS. GREAT PRICES. CALL 289-8048 I need one ticket for MSU. Narne your price and call Bryan at 1-6900 +++++++++++++++++++++++++++ ++ N.D'. FOOTBALL TICKETS BUY/SELL/TRADE ALL GAMES ALL LOCATIONS GREAT PRICES 271-9330 !!NO STUDENT TICKETS!! TICKETMART INC. www.ndtickets.com +++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++ ND ALUM WILL PAY $100 APIECE FOR TENNESSEE TIX 2773097  
REWARD! NO QUESTIONS ASKED, 683-1938 LOST: Checkbook with a reddish brown cover on 8/24. Please call Rich at 289-3921. After school child care needed. Approx. 12 hOurs per week. Must nave a car. Good pay! Call 631­9947, Lisa. WANTED I need a responsible person to care for my 2 children ( 8&6). On M&W(4:30pm-2:00am) and every other Fri. & Sat. (4:30pm ­4:30am).Transp. provided 1f needed $30/ night. Michele 287-9744  RECSPORTS STUDENT SUPER VISOR-Supervisors work 10-15 hours per week, splitting their time between office hours and on-site supervision of RecSports activities. Each supervisor is assigned to various intramural sports throughout the year and is responsible for administering these activities from sign-ups to completion .. Weekend work is required. Job openings (1). Part-time child care M thru TH, 12-24 hrs/week, 11exible, 5 mins. from campus. Good pay Carmen 234-1744.  B&B ND FOOTBALL & GRAD. 3 MILES TO N.O 287-4545 HOMES CLOSE TO CAMPUS http://rnmmrentals.homepage.com/ 232-2595 THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available tor football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths, $80· $115, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road Exit #107, 1 · 800-418-9487. 3-6 BDRM HOMES NEAR CAM· PUS. NOW OR 2000/2001.ROOMS ALSO 272-6306 SWANSON PARK 3 BDRM.FAM RM2726306  B&B Orchard Cottage Games available: Navy Oct. 30th B.C. Nov.20th 2 to 4 people in business 8 yrs. $275 2 nights (219) 288-3923 FOR SALE Beautiful brass bed, queen size, with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe frame. New, never used, still in plastic. $235, 219-862-2082. SILVER TREK RACING BIKE 52cm lrame. 12 spd, Excellent condition. $150/obo.Rich 289-3921.  TICKETS WANTED NOTRE DAME FOOT· BALL TICKETS 271-1526 SELL & BUY GA FOOTBALL TICK· ETS 277-6619 WANTED· ND football !ix. AM · 232-2378 PM • 288-2726 ND football tix for sale. AM -232-2378 PM · 288-2726 I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME GAMES.2726551  NEED 3 BC TIX. email: Kerr.10@nd.edu NEED 2 KANSAS GM TIX!! Call Tim, 634-0959 For Sale : 2 GA tix. Kansas, MichState, Oklahoma, AZState, Navy. 287-1449 eve Selling 2 Kansas GAs: 243-2770 Need 2 tickets to Michigan State garne. Call Bill at 4·4905. GA s KANSAS GA s CHEAP 277-1659 CHEAP GA FOOTBALL TICKETS ALL HOME GAMES. 272-7233 ASK FOR AL  

!Friday~ A~gust 27, 1999 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
+ Campus Ministry Events + 








OFFICE OF CAMPUS MINISTRY 
103 Hesburgh Library 
631-7800 112 Badin Hall 
631-5242 Basilica Offices 
631-8463 
Web Page, http;//www.nd.edu./-ministry/ 
Monday, August 30, 6:00 pm-8:00 pm, Badin Hall Chapel 
Emmaus Leadership Training 
Monday-Friday, August 30-September 3. 103 Hesburgh Library 
ND Encounter Retreat #57 (Sept. 24-26) Sign-Up 
Monday, August 30-Septernber 20, 103 Hesburgh Library. 112 Badin Hall 
Freshman Retreat #24 (Sept. 24-25) Sign-Up 
Targeted Dorms: Badin, Keenan, Lewis, O'Neill Family, Pasquerilla East, St. Edward's, Morrissey, Walsh, and Zahm 
Wednesday, September 1, 4:30-5:30 pm, Montgomery Theatre-Lafortune 
Catechist Information Session 
Thursday, September 2, 5:00-7:30 pm, Lafortune Ballroom 
Pachanga '99 
Friday-Saturday, September 3-4, Fatima Retreat Center 
Africentric Spirituality Freshman Intro Retreat 
Sunday, September 5, 1:00 pm, ND Room-Lafortune 
RCIA Info_rmation Session, Candidates and Sponsors 
Tuesday, September 1; Siegfried Hall 
Confirmation Information Sessions 
7:00 pm, Candidates -8:00 pm, Sponsors 
Tuesday, September 7. 7:00 pm, Badin Hall Chapel 
Campus Bible Study 
Tuesday, September 7, 10:00 pm, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Eucharistic Minstry Workshop (also September 12, 2:30 pm) 
Wednesday, September 8, 7:00-8:00 pm, Reeker's Hospitality Room Africentric Spirituality: Freshman Intro First Year Partner Reception 
Wednesday, September 8, 8:00 pm, Basilica of the Sacred Heart Lector Workshop (also September 12, 8:00 pm) 
Thursday, September 9, 7:00 pm, Eck Center Auditorium 
Sankofa Scholars Honors Assembly and Reception 
Sunday, September 12, 4:00 pm, Sorin Hall Chapel 
Rejoice! Black Catholic Mass 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, August 27, I ~99 
NFL 

Ditka counting on Williams to play 
By MARY POSTER AP Sports Wri,er 
NEW ORLEANS 
He's on the billboards. He's in the TV commercials and the newspaper ads. But will Ricky Williams actually be on the field for the New Orleans Saints reg­ular season opener? 
Coach Mike Ditka says he's counting in it. Williams says he doesn't know. 
Williams will miss Saturday's exhibition game against Green Bay with what doctors call a "high left ankle sprain" suffered Aug. 13 against Miami. Although the injury will proba­bly keep him out of the last pre­season game as well, Ditka said he expects Williams to be ready for the season opener Sept. 12 against Carolina. 
"Yes, absolutely. There is no question in my mind," Ditka said. "There's no question in my mind that he'll be there." 
Williams, who took off the protective boot he was wearing and donned shoulder pads and helmet for a 15-minute session on the stair-stepper Wednesday, had the boot back on and the pads off again Thursday when he spent 15 minutes riding a stationary bike. 
As to his comment to a reporter earlier in the week that he had a torn ligament and would miss four to six weeks, Williams admitted he really had no idea how long he'd be out. 
"I don't think you can tell someone how long they're going to be out, really," Williams said. "You can give an estimate, but most doctors' esti­mates are on the safe sine, so to speak. I've been given a lot of estimates, anywhere from two to six weeks. I feel great right now." 
An examination this week by an orthopedist confirmed the Saints' diagnosis that surgery was not indicated, Saints train­er Dean Kleinschmidt said 
While the Saints call it a sprain, and Williams described it as a "widening" of bone in his lower left leg, medical authori­ties refer tu it as a separation in Williams left syndesmosis, a fibrous band that runs between the tibia and fibula and bonds the bones together in the lower leg . 

"It's all part of the same thing," said Dr. Lewis Maharam, president of the New York chapter of the American College of Sports Medicine. "All sprains are is a tear in the liga­ment. A high sprain is just tear­ing at the base of the ligament. 
"High sprains are harder to treat and can sometimes take six weeks to heal. But they can heal sooner. Everybody heals at different rates." 
Professional athletes general­ly recover more quickly because they can devote full time to rehabilitation, Maharam said. And, he said, doctors tend to be ultraconservative when predicting recuperation times. 
Such an injury can cause pain when an athlete tries to run, twist or cut, Maharam said. 
The Saints have not had a winning season since 1992, going 6-10 each of the last two years. The Saints have keyed this year's ticket sales promo­tions to Williams, just as they tied promotions to Ditka when he signed on as head coach in 1997. 
Full-page newspaper ads in New Orleans and surrounding cities ran throughout the sum­mer, showing a smiling Williams running with a foot­ball under his arm. 
"It's a happy day in this busi­
ness when you can attach your 
brand to a star," said Greg Suit, 
Saints. vice president for mar­
keting. 

Season ticket sales, which 
ended with the first home exhi­
bition game, were up by 2,200 
from last year. 

With New Orleans coming off a victory against Miami in whic.h Williams showed his tal­ent for nine plays prior to the injury, the Saints expected between 50,000 and 55,000 for their first home outing. 
"We sold 5,000 tickets on the 
Monday following that game," 
Suit said. "That's all kinds of 
tickets -single-game, season 
tickets, the works." 

When word circulated that 
Williams would not play, sales 
screeched to a halt a( only 
41,788. 

"We did notice a pause," Suit _said. "But it's picking back up." 
Getting Williams back on the 
field would certainly add impe­
tus. But a four-week recovery 
pAriod would make that an 
uncertain proposition. 

• • •
•
•
•
•

BIATHlON 
• 
•
•

• SUNDAY. AUGUST 29 
•• 
•

• 3:00 PM AT ST. JOE BEACH •
• •
• 
•
• 
•

• 1/2 MILE SWIM •
•

• & •
•

• 2MILERUN •
• 
•

• REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT 
•• 

RECSPORTS •
• • 

I • • ARSITY •
•

• TEAM & INDIVIDUAL 
•
• 

NON-ARSITY •
• 
•

• Tf.AM & INDIVIDUAL 
•• 
•
• 

: R--~ : 
TENNIS 

Sampras earns top seed at Open 
opening round. has won the last two men's 
By BOB GREENE Also in Sampras' bracket is singles titles on the hard AP Sports Writer 
two-time finalist Jim Courier, courts at Arthur Ashe Frenchman Fabrice Santoro Stadium. Seeded fourth this NEW YORK and 16th-seeded Nicolas year, Rafter also could have Almost every move Pete Lapentti of Ecuador, who his hands full with his first Sarnµras makes these days won the HCA Championships opponent, Cedric Piolinc of goes into the record book. in Indianapolis last week. France. Pioline reached the The 28-year-old right-han­Martina Hingis, the lop­U.S. Open final in 1993 and der is the No. 1 seed at the seeded player in the the Wimbledon title match in 
U.S Open for a fifth time, women's field, will face 1997. tying the Open Era record set Kveta Hrdlickova of the Seeded second is Andre by John McEnroe from 1981-Czech Republic in her open­Agassi, winner of tlrn French 
85. ing match. Open in June and runnerup 
He is seeking his fifth title Lindsay Davenport, seeded to Sampras at Wimbledon. at the National Tennis No. 2, will begin the defense He begins the chase for his Center, which would tie him of her women's singles title second U.S. Open crown 
with Jimmy Connors, two against fellow American against Sweden's Nicklas behind a trio of players, Corina Morariu. Davenport, Kulti. including Bill Tilden. somewhat of a surprise when The 6-fuut-4 Safin made 
And a victory in the centu­she won a year ago, added headlines last year when, in ry's last Grand Slam tourna­the Wimbledon crown earlier the decisive fifth Davis Cup ment, the 12th of his career, this summer. match between Russia and would break the record The Williams sisters -the United States, he battlerl Sampras shares with former third-seeded Venus and No. Cour·ier for five sets before 
Australian star Roy Emerson 7 Serena -are playing in falling. for most Grand Slam m1rn's opposite halves of the draw He then made his Grand singles titles. He tied and couId meet in the iitle Slam tournament debut at Emerson in July when he match, as they did earliAr the French Open in 1998, won his sixth Wimbledon this year in Key Biscayne, where reached the fourth crown. Fla. Venus, who has never round, then duplicated that 
The road to the record lost to her younge·r sister, showing at the U.S. Open a book, however, could be a opens against a qualifier, year ago. little rough. while Serena will play Sampras skipped the early 
In Wednesday's draw, Kimberlv Po, who won their part of the year after a late Marat Safin, a young Russian only other meeting. push saw him end J998 as with a big serve, was select­While ~ampras is seeded !\lo. l f'or a record sixth ed to play Sampras in the No. 1, Australian Pat Rafter straight. year. 

• www.nd.edu/~recsport : 
---·-------~----------­
Friday, Augmc 27, l 999 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Montgomery leaves
Late rally puts Cubs over Giants 
Associated l'ress 
CIIICA<;o 

Sam my Sosa hit his major IPaguP-l<mding 5:frd honrn run and tlw Chicago Cubs rallied from fivP runs down to lwat the San Francisco (;iants l l -10 on Mickny Mora11di11i's Hill double in tlw ninth inning. 
Tim Cubs lrnil1id 7-2 aflnr three innings before rallying lwhind Sosa and Mark Gri.u:n, who hit consncutivP solo hrn1wrs in llrn Jil'th inning. Sosa has 10 honwrs in tlrn last 12 gamns for tlw Cubs, who am just !i-20 in !\ugust. 
Sosa. who has 111\arly onp­third of' tlw Cubs I(iO homPrs, 1·01111n1·tpd on a I -I pitch l'rom l.ivan llnrnandPz in tho f'il'th. Sosa is nirrn ganws alwad of last y1\ar's p,u:n, wtwn IH\ hit No. ;,;{ in tlw Cubs' t :{filh ganrn and t\IHlr·d with M1. 
Thn Cubs won tlw gamo in 1.hP ninth..!1•11' Ht\nd hit a l<iadoff douhlt• ol'f Hohh Ncn 13-7) and two outs latnr Morandini clou­h!Pd to Jpf't,-cnnwr to givn tlrn C:11hs thPir first win in night gamns this soason against. tlw (;iants. 
'!'PITY Adams 15-3) pitrlwd onP scornlPss inning. 
Cram acldnd a pair of' two-run singlns !'or his sevPnlh ntri•nr liw-HBI garno. llis second two­run singlo tiod tlw gamn in the Pighth inning against Nn11 
Tlw (;iants intcntionally walkt\d Sosa with two out and lwo n1111wrs 1111 in tlw nighl.h to load llw basos. (;racn f'ollownd with a singln to right. 
Jnff Knnt hit a two-run singln in a six-run third and a two-run dou!JIP in tlw sixth, and has hit sal'Ply in all fivr. ganws playncl sin<'c bt>ing activatml Trom thn disall!Pd list Saturday.· 

Hookin Micah Bowie gavr. up scored on Livan llernandez's seven runs -six earrwd -and sacrilice. sovon hits in 2 1-3 innings for Gary Gaetti hit a sacrifice llv Chicago. It was his shortnsl out­and Jeff Blauser added a pinch·­ing in live starts. hit HBl singh~ in the fourth to 
Trailing 2-1, San Francisr.o cul it to 7-4. The homers bv scornd six runs in thn third Sosa and Grace made it a one·­inning. Kent hit a two-run sin­run game in the fifth. glo, .J.T. Snow hit a two-run Knnt hit a two-run double in double. Scott Snrvais added an tho sixth and scorod on Snow's HBI single and anollrnr run singln to open a 10-6 load, 
mark in record book 
out with was a quality pitch." 
Handa broke a 1-all tie in the fourth with a thrnc-run home run off Doug Linton (0­
2) and added an HBI singl11 for a 6-1 lead in the fifth. 
Kansas City Ind 6-1 in tlw eighth before Baltimore scornd four runs on one hit with the help of two errors by second basmnan Sttivn Sr.arsone. Artnr the Oriolns loaded the has11s with onn out, Scarsonc bobbled l larnlcl Baines' potential double-play grounder, allowing onn run to score. 
Alvin Morman l'orcod in a run by walking .ldf Conirrn and two morn runs scored on Dclino DeShields' groundnr to Handa at. third. Handa thrnw lo Scarsonn at second for a forceout, but Scarsonn's rnlay to lirsl was low f'or an nrror. 
Scott Pose and Hay Ilollwrt then hit run-s<:oring singlns in tlrn flighth off' Scott Kamieniecki for an 8-5 load. Mike Figga homnrcd off Brad Higby in the ninth. 
.Jeff Suppan (8-7) gave up four runs, eight hits and four walks in 7 1-3 inniugs. 
Linton, s<icking his l'irst major lnaguc victl)ry sinc1! Sept. 11, 1996, with Kansas City, gave up six runs and I 0 hits in 4 2-3 innings. 
With two outs in the third. Damon lifted a high drive into the right-field corrrnr. The ball appoarnd to bouncn off tlrn foul pole just inches below the top 111' the fonct! and rolled bad toward t.lH1 infield, with Bnllc jogging behind. Damon slid homn safoly ahead of tlw throw. 
Baltimoro manager Hay Miller was upset with second baseman Delino DnShinlds for not running out for tlw ball. 
"That's one run that sticks in my mind," Miller said. "Albert ran halfway back to lirst base to pick Lim ball up." 
DoShiolds said he wasn't sum it was a ho1110 run. 
"I thought it was foul. l was looking at tht> umpin~ to makP a call. IIP kind of macfP a late call," Dr\Shi1\lds said. 
By DOUG TUCKER 
AP Spores Writer 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. 
It's hard to know who was more relieved to sec Jeff Montgomery got his 300th save Wednesday night: the pitcher, the manager or the beleaguered Kansas City Hoyals. 
A night aftnr blowing a chance to reach the mile­stonr•, Montgomery rotircd Albr.rt Belle on a game-end­ing groundout, becoming the 10th member of the 300-save club as the Hoyals boat tho Baltimore Orioles 8-6. 
"I know it's been tough on him. It's been tough on tho club and it's been tough on nm," said Royals manager Tony Muser, criticized for staying with the 3 7 -year-old rrliever. 
Joe Handa had !'our HBls and Johnny Damon legged out his first inside-the-park homer as the lloyals set up Montgomery's big moment and stopped a live-game los­ing streak. 
Montgomery, in his 12th season, is the only man to get all 300 of his saves with the same club. lie has eight saves for the season and six of the Royals' 28 blown saves. 
''I'm not a historian, but I saw there aren't ma11y 300­save ~uys and I knew all the othc>r guys had accomplished saves with more than one ballclub," said Montgomery, who had shouldnr surgery in 1996. "It's a very special moment." 
Montgomery blew a 3-2 load in the ninth Tuesday night, and the Orioles won in 
the 10th on Belle's two-run 
homer. In anotlrnr thriller, Montgomery allownd two sin­gles bnfore retiring Belle on Wednesday.

INTERRACE 
"Once a couple of guys get 
on base and I've got one of the top RBI guys in lhn game

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER1, 1999 
standing them with a piece of' lumber in his hand. that

CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
crnatcs focus," Montgomery said. "The slider I got him

5:30 PM 

Joe Montana 
Autographed Jersey At The Logan Center 
Sign up to win a $500.00 ND Jersey signed by Joe Montana Aug. 28th -8 a.m. til 2:30 p.m. 
DINNER PROVIDED 
South ofStadium at the corner ofEddy, 
Edison, and Juniper
PLEASE R.S.V.P. 631-6841 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, August 27, W99 
BASEBALL 
Loaiza lands key victories 
By MIKE FINGER AP Sports Writer 
AHLINGTON, Texas 
Just over a month ago, Esteban Loaiza was struggling lo keep his job with the Texas Rangers. After winning his seventh straight decision, he's making a bid to become the staff's ace. 
Loaiza overcame a shaky start to pitch seven strong innings as the Rangers beat the New York Yankees 7-3 to salvage the finale of a three­game series hetween two pos­sible playoff opponents. 
"lie can throw any pitch for a strike right now." said Texas catcher Ivan Hodriguez. ''!-!e's hot." 
Loaiza (7-I). who hasn't lost 
since being inserted into the starting rotation after the All­Star break. gave up three runs in his first thrne innings. but gradually regained his com­mand and nPedcd just 24 pitches to gld through the firth.sixth and s<iventh innings. 
Loaiza allowml all three runs and eight hits in seven innings, struck out f'ivt~ and walked two. 
"I feel a lot of' confidence in myself," Loaiza said. "I'm starting to throw the ball where I'm supposed to." 
Hafarl f'alm,\iro continund his torrid pace for the Hangers, getting his ninth homer in as many games in the sixth inning. Palmeiro was l 1-for-24 during Texas' six­game honrnstand, including six homers and 13 HBls. 
"Playing the Yankees is fun," l'almeiro said. "You get up to play these kinds of games. Fortunately, wn were able to win one of thorn." 
llideki Irabu (10-5), who had his career-high eight-game winning strnak snapped in his last start, gave up six runs and 10 hits in five-plus innings. 
Trailing by three runs, Texas took a 4-3 lead in the third when Mark McLemore, Ivan Rodriguez and Husty Greer hit consecutive one-out HBI sin­gles and Juan Gonzalez added a sacrifice ilv. 
lrabu was.chasecl in sixth by f'almeiro's 3'Hh homer and consecutive singles by Todd Zeile and LeP Stevens, \\ho drove in Zeile. Mark Mclemore added an HBI single ofT Jeff Nelson in the eighth. 
"I threw a lot of' l.lalls up," lralrn said. ''My pitching bal­ance was off, which happens sometimes during games." 
The H.angcrs got their final run in thr. hottom of the eighth, whPn Boyce Clayton singled and scored on McLemore's srcond RBI single of' the night. 
FOUND: 
Item of great value on orientation weekend. Call (814) 832-2098 evenings or (814) 696-2636 weekdays. Identify item for return 

COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
Top quarterbacks will come out throwing 
By RICHARD ROSENBLAT 
AP Football Writer 

Looking for a few good quar­terbacks? 
Tune in this weekend, when some of the nation's top guns start flinging footballs to open the final college season of the century. 
Stari with Louisiana Tech at No. 1 Florida State on Saturday, when a healthy Chris Weinke matches passes with the Bulldogs' Tim Rattay, who threw for nearly 5,000 yards last season. · 
Or try North Carolina State at No. 17 Texas, where Jamie Barnette, the ACC's total offense leader in 1998, hooks up with the Longhorns' Major Applewhite. who threw for 2,453 yards and 18 TDs even with Heisman Trophy-winning teammate Ricky Williams run­ning for 2,124 yards. 
Want versatility? Then Notre Dame's Jarious Jackson is the choice. Jackson. who threw for 1,740 yards and ran for anoth­er 441 yards in '98, leads the 18th-ranked Irish against visit­ing Kansas on Saturday. 
Bob Davie opens his third season in South Bend, Ind., knowing four of his predeces­sors won national titles in their third season. That streak will probably end, but the Irish were happy to add a 12th game to avoid opening on the road, against Michigan on Sept. 4. 
"There's no suspense to why we did it," Davie said of sched­uling. "We wanted to open up 
at home." 

Tony Driver, a strong safety last sc~ason for the Irish, has been returned to tailback. Two years ago, as a freshman, Driver ran for 125 yards and three TDs. 
How about two against one? 
Check out State College, Pa., where No. 4 Arizona and its co­quarterbacks Keith Smith and Ortege Jenkins take on No. 3 Penn State and its starter, the much-maligned Kevin Thompson. 
"Having two quarterbacks is amazing." Arizona running back Trung Canidate said. "You think it would be a dis­traction, but the bottom line is you have two phenomenal guys. and you just don't think about it." 
Coach Oick Tomey said ~mith, a senior. will start. Smith threw for 1,732 yards and 13 TDs, and ran for anoth­er 199 yards, while Jenkins passed for 1,011 yards and five TDs and ran for 156 yards. 
If the Nittany Lions have a weak link_. it's the passing game. Thompson threw just six TD passes and had eight inter­ceptions in '98. 
And if you're ready for some­thing new, don't miss Sunday's Kickoff Classic between No. 9 Ohio State and No. 12 Miami. Both quarterbacks -the Buckeyes' Austin Moherman and the Hurricanes' Kenny Kelly -are starting for the first time. 
"I haven't started since high school, and this is a whole new ballgame," said Kelly, a third­year sophomore. "Once I get those first couple of snaps out of the way, I think I'll get the buttert1ies out of my stomach." 
Kelly threw for 433 yards and five TDs as Scott Covington's backup last season. 
Moherman, also third-year sophornort), beat out Steve Bellisari to earn his start. But coach John Cooper expects both to play against Miami. 
"Austin has more experience and a bf\tter grasp of the offense," Cooper said t)arlier this week in announcing his choicf\. 

Assurance and Business Advisory Services Global Human Resources Solutions 
Teamwork in and of it5elf yields powerful results. Combine that power with wisdom, experience, and proven leadership to realize the combined strength of PricewaterhouseCoopers. At our world-leading professional services firm, learning is ongoing. We offer vast opportunities, training and a variety of continuing education programs. Stop by the Taste of PwC to learn more about the career opportunities at PricewaterhouseCoopers. You've learned from some of the best in college. Continue the tradition with us. 
www.pwcglobal.com/ocp 
fR1cEWA1"£RHOVsE@)PERS I 
Join us. Together we can change the world.sM 
c 1999 PricewaterhouseCoopcrs Ll.P. PricewaterhouseCoopers refers to the U.S. firm ofPric~w-,terhouseCoopers UP and other members of the worldwidP PricP\.Vaterhou5eC'oopers organizarion PricewaterhouseCoopers is proud to be an Affirmative Action and Equal Opponunity Employer. 
......---------------------~-~--...-------~------------,--~­I I I I 
I 
I 
I
Friday, August 27, 1999 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 I I 
I 
-I I I 
To all the Saint Mary's College, Holy Cross 
College and University of Notre Dame students, faculty and staff returning to carn­pus, we at Notre Dame Federal Credit Union 
would like to· say in our under-stated way... 
\\\,,, 
'-. 

And .,,\ 
b~'·
•i 

remind you of your eligibility ·for\ 
n1ernbership in the Notre Dame Federal Credit Union. So, join the credit union. We've got all the products and services banks do without the gimmicks, tricks and extravagant fees. 
0 ~£)J~C~E~t~~ ­
For People. Not For Profit. 
www.ndfcu.org e-mail: ndfcu@ndfcu.org 
Main Office Edison Lakes Ireland Road Mishawaka 
19033 Douglas Rd 111 West Edison Rd 2102 E. Ireland Rd 125 South Mill St PO Box 7878 Mishawaka, IN 46545 · South Bend, IN 46614 Mishawaka, IN 46544 Notre Dame. IN 46556 (219) 254-4400 (219) 299-2220 (219) 256-2361 (219) 239-6611 
Saint Joseph's Medical Center Saint Mary's Campus Office Granger Express Portage Road 
801 East LaSalle St The Center Building (Clock Tower) 12980 State Rd 23, Suite F 3457 Portage Road South Bend. IN 46617 Notre Dorne, IN 46556 · Granger. IN 46530 South Bend, IN 46628 
(219) 237-7288 (219) 284-4614 (219) 239-9351 (219) 277-8959 
INDEPENDENT Of THE UNIVERSITY 

page 22 Th{;' ObserTJer . SPORTS Friday, August 27, 1999 
-

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Carson leaves Illinois to complete ND staff 
Special to the Observ~r 
David Cason. an assistant basketball coach at Eastern Illinois University for the past three seasons, has been named the Coordinator of Basketball Operations at Notre Dame. Tim hiring of Cason completes head coach Matt Dohcrty's staff. which also includes assistants Doug Wojcik, Fred Quartelbaum and Bob MacKinnon. 
Cason helped lead the 1997­98 Eastern Illinois team to an ovemll record of 16-11 and a second place finish in the Ohio Valley Conference. Cason spr.nt the 1995-96 sr~ason as a student assistant baskPtball coach at Illinois State as the team posted a 22-15 record and finished second in the Missouri Vallf'y Conference. advancing to the quartPrfinals 

HAVE SOMETHING TO SAY? USE OBSERVER CLASS IFI EDS. 
-
of the National Invitation Tournament. 
Cason is a 1996 graduate of Illinois State and played for the Redbirds from 1993-95. In his senior season, thP team went 20-13 and advanced to the second round of the ·NIT and finished second in the conforence. Cason was the team captain his senior year and won the Doug Collins Most Valuable Plaver Award for the club. He was named second team all-MVP and led thP league in assists. 
Cason played his nrst two years of college basketball (1991-93) at Southern Idaho. The team went 34-4 in his freshman year and went 36-2 when hP was a ~ophomore. Cason helpnd the school run a strf'ak of 137 consecutive wins at home. 
A native of Baltimore. Cason 
was born on Aug.12.1972. 
Soccer 

continued from page 28 
attack when we have the ball." 
The midfield features a trio of internationally experienced players. 
Anne Makinen competed with the Finnish national team while Jenny Streiffer and Jen Grubb both played for the U.S. under-21 national team that won the Nordic Cup this summer. Streiffer led the team in scoring while Grubb started every game. 
Grubb moves to the midfield after playing three years on the hackline where she was a three-time All-AmPrican. Moving Gruhb to the midfield 
Grilled Burgers. Brats. and OthL:r SpL:cialties Cold Beverages & Spirits hO" Screen TV's Pully Enclosi:d Trnt 
ext to the N.D. Bookstore. 219-631-2000 

will give the Irish a stronger defensive presence in the middle without sacrificing any offense. 
"That's been the focus of our presr.ason -'-changing to a defensive posture," Waldrum said but he also said that the new defensive posture will not hold back an offense that averaged 3.96 goals-per-game to lead the :\JCAA in scoring. 
"We still have players like Anne, Jen Streiffcr and Jen Grubb along with three for­wards so I don't think that it will slow us down at all," he said. 
Whilr the midfield is filled with experienced players, the new defense has a mix of young and vr-teran players. The Irish will start two fresh­men in Venesa Pruzinsky and Nancy Mikacenic but senior Kara Brown and junior cap­ta.in Kelly Lindsey bring plen­ty of veteran leadership to the warn. 
Brown made the transition to defense last season after plriying her first two years in the midfield. 
Lindsey had surgery in the off-season and missed the spring drills but has looked strong so far in the prnsea­son. 
Brown and Lindsey's lead­ership havn made tlrn transi­tion to college an easy one for the freshmen, according to Pruzinsky. 
''It's kind o {' been easy because all the seniors and juniors helped out ·a lot," she said. 
I"""---------------------­
Friday, August 27, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
-----------===-=-=-=-=...:.....:=_-.--=--=--=--=---=---=--===========================================================================-======= 
TRACK 
Back injury jeopardizes Jones' season 
Hy STEPHEN WILSON 
Al' Sport., Writer 
SEVII.LE, Spain 

Ttw hnat, Urn hard track and Urn daily grind tonk thnir toll on Marion .l111ws. 
Tlw world's top f1•malc lraek anrl l'idd ath!Plc came lo tlrn World Championships scrnking a rncord fnur gold nwdals. 
She !naves with 0110 gold. 01m bro1111: and a had back. 
.lonns was c-arriPd off tlw lraek on a gurrwy Wml1wsday nighl ,tf'tnr crum­bling onto tlw trnrk in agony during LIie semifinals of' llw 200 mnt,~rs. 
An ollidal stat1:11rn11t f'rnm USA Track and Fi1•ld said Jonns suf'foro<l 
. spasms and cramping in lwr lower hnt'k. Furtlwr tr1\1ttment and tests wort• rwnd,·d t11 dntnrmirir• tlw l'ull t'Xl1int of' hor condition. ll 's virtually l'l'rtain that Jones won't hi' cornpPLin!{ any morP at tfll's<• championships, wi<I tho rnst of lwr sPaso11 collld ll<' in j1!oparcfy. loo. Australian sprinl!'r Nova 1'11<lris­Knn11horw said .lorws· absencn. no mallPr how long. would have a snv1,rl' impact 011 llw sport. "It's tragic-," slw said. "In my eyes. 
sho's the Wondl'r Woman or track and l'iflld. She'!? gained so much rnspncL" 
Primo Nebiolo. president of tlrn lnternalionul Amateur i\thlelic Federation, also was shaktrn bv Jonns' injury. · 
"I was deeply affected by the injury sustained by Marion· Jones. and I am suro that millions of' fans around tho world sharr. this sentiment," N1ibiolo said. "Marion Jones has bpcom,~ a symbol of all Lhat is best in athletics: enthusiasm and th<\ simple joy of compPtition_" 
The clrnmpionsliips started with much promise !'or Jones as slrn retained her 100-mcler title Sunday in a y()ar's best time of Hl.70 sec­onds. But thm• sh!' had to sP:Ule for bronze in lhe long jump. dashing her hopes for four golds. 
Jmws was tlH' hPavy favorihi in the 200 and was going lo run in a rnlay later in l1111 wnek. 
In W(idnesday·s racG, slrn went down about 50 nwtnrs from tho fin­ish, clutching lwr lmv11r hack with her ldt hand a11d in nxtremn pain, her f'acn comortBd. 
Jonns was put onto a gurrwy and rollP<l into the medical arnu wilh her husband. shot put champion C.J. 
WE'RE AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER WITH UNEQUALED OPPORTUNITIES FOR EMPLOYMENT. 
t 
:i) ,!:~~r£?~ 
.
• 
If ynu_·~e majoring in computer science, data processing, accounting, audnmg. math or law, contact your Placement Director for more information, or write to: Assistant Director, Corporate Human Resources, Three State Farm Plaza-Kl. Bloomington, Illinois 61791-0001. 
Stare Fam1 Insurance Companies • Home Offices: Bkxlmington, Illinois • An E.qual Opportunity Employer www.statefann.com 
llunter, al her side. 

Doctors worked on Jones at the sta­dium for about 2 1/2 hours, before shl~ walked out slowly under her own power without speaking to the media. Plans Lo take her to a hospital were scrapped and she returned to her hotfd room. asking not to be dis­turbed. 
Competing so often on the hard Mondo track, the physical strains of long jumping and the extreme heat and humidity all may have played a rol,~. 
"It's a trar,k built for one rac<~," Emmanuel Iludson, manager of men's 100-metcr chumpion Maurice Groene, said. "It's not a practice track. Marion hadn't had a day off since llrn championships began [last SaturdayI. That's a lot of work. 
"She's been taking a beating on the track. It's for sum a long jump injury. Ev11ryone forgets she's been training for tho lohgjump all week." 
Jones' injury overshaclowod Wednesday's comp11tition. highlightr,d bv six linals. 
·world record-holder Colin Jackson becamn Brilain's first world or Olympic champion since 1993, win­ning the 110-mctcr hurdles with his season's best, 1a.04 seconds. 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Johnson breaks pitching record 
By STEVEN WINE 
AP Spores Writer 
MIAMI 

Even among strikeout pitchers. Handy Johnson is the fastest ever. 
.Johnson readrnd 300 striknouts in rncord 
time, notching ninn in snvnn innings 
Thursday to help the strnaking Arizona 
Diamondbacks boat tho Florida Marlins 12-2. 
,~ohnson (14-8) achiew~d tlrn mileslon11 in his 29th start. The previous bnst was Podro Martinez, who reached 300 in 31 starts in 1997. 
"It's a special achievement," Johnson said. "My primary goal is to put us in a position to win, ~ut anything that conws wilh that is .. groat. 
Damian Miller hit a grand slam to cap Arizona's team-record eight-run ninth. Matt Williams drovn in four nms with two singles, a double and a sacrifico fly. Tony Womack had two hits and a walk, two stolen bases and three runs scored. 
Tho NL Wost-leading Diamondbacks extended their winning slrnak to six ganrns and completed a three-game sw<iep of' Florida. which has lost six in a row. 
Johnson reaclrnd :mo strikeouts with his eighth of thn ganrn against Knvin Millar lo end the firth inning. 
"If I had lo facn Handy Johnson 1wery night, I probably wouldn't Im here," said Millar. wh'O struck out in all three of his at­bats. "You can have your A-game, and lw can make it a D-game real quick. You foe! real good at the plate, and you look up and you've struck out lhrnn times." 
Johnson, who also achieved the strikeout milestone in 1993 and 1998, joins Nolan Hyan and Sandy Koul'ax as the only pitclwrs to reach the :mo mark three limns. Hyan had a record six 300 seasons. 
"I don't know if 1werybody grasps tlrn t.yp11 of achievement that is," Diamondbacks man­ager Buck Showalt<ff said. "We'rn all lucky to be here to sec it. Handy is having as good a year as he's ever had, and he's had a lot of good ones." 
On a sunny, 88-degree af'tnrnoon, Johnson left tho game with a 4-1 lnacl and 301 strik11­outs after throwing 103 pitches. !In a flowed six hits. 
"lln was a little lightlwadnd 1rnrly, but I think everybody was at somo timn today," Showalter said. "I !is stamina imprnssns nw as much as anything. On a day like today. a lot of' guys would have trouble staying out tlwrc for live innings." 
Johnson. who has lost snvnral low-scoring games, said this has bem1 his best ynar. Tim :"15-year-old lert-hander liknly has s1wPn starts remaining, and he needs 83 striknouts lo break Hyan 's mm-season record of 383 snt in 1973. · 
"II' something like that happPns, it's similar to today -as long as WP win tlrn gamn. it's great," he said. 
With his fastball reaching CJ<J mph . .Johnson struck out six of the lirst nine Marlins, but Florida bunched three consecutive hits to score in the third. After Luis Castillo singl,id to nxtcnd his hitting streak to 14 ganws, Dave Berg singled and Bruen ;\ven doubl1!d off the wall. 
"I think people thought Handy Johnson was going to comn out and strike out 27 and throw a no-hitter," Marlins manager .John Boles said. "But our guys wnrn out tlwrc lighting with him. They hung in them. 
"But he is protty good." 
Johnson was awarn Im was on tlw vergn of the rnilestorrn when Im went eight hatt1irs without a strikeout bcforn notching No. :mo. 
"The first throe or four innings I was cntis­ing, and I didn't realizn how hard it was going to be to gd that last strikeout," Im said. 
Brian Meadows (10-13) allowed seven hits and four runs in 6 2-:{ innings against tho lliamondbacks. who improved to 27-7 sincn July 20, best in the major leagues. Arizona is 6-0 this year against Florida. 
Womar,k Ind off the gamn with a walk, stoic his 56th base and scornd on Williams' two-out single. 
In the third inning, Womack doubled, Jay Bell walked and Luis Gonzalez singled home a run. Williams followed with a sacrifice lly to make the scorn 3-0. 
page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, August 27, 1999 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Umpire union gains support in opposition of Phillips 
slaughter," Dave Phillips said. undermining of the union. It teams to have replacements "Loss than one month and a shows there was no need for available. half ago, we didn't have 22 the hiring of these umpires in "We've discussed several guys out of work. We, the July for potential duty in options," said NL ump Jerry Major League Umpires September." Crawford, the union president. 
Association, don't want to sec In papers filed with the "Have we decided on any? No. Richie Phillips lead them the NLRB, umpires claim baseball I wouldn't rule out anything." way of the Professional Air jumped at the disunity among Owners do not think the lat­Traffic Controllers." umpires in an attempt to est charge has merit but didn't 
In 1981, President Reagan break the union. want to respond publicly, one fired more than 11,000 PATCO Phillips said the newly hired management lawyer said on members when they defied a umpires will be pressured by the condition of anonymity. back-to-work order. baseball to side against him in Dave Phillips also accusAd 
"I think that whatever they the umpires' Jnternal struggle. Richie Phillips of creating a do, they'll be unsuccessful," "I believe all these umpires conflict of interest by having Richie Phillips said. "I believe will be shortly receiving seri­Pilot Air Freight Inc., a com­they will do whatever they can ous threats from major league pany controlled by the union do to try to cover up their own baseball, and I expect that to head, pay some umpires•. dishonor.'' happen in the next 24 hours," "I think that any response by 
The latest unfair labor prac­Phillips said. "They will be me would only lend a measure tice charge deals with the 25 told that ~f they support the of dignity to those comments," new umpires baseball has union. they essentially will Hichie Phillips said. hired from the minor leagues. have the shortest careers in "There arc some umpires While many of them have been history. That message will out there that do specific work vacation callups this summer, r.ome in letror form and phone for Hichic J>hillips, yes ther11 some have been working in rnlls." are," Crawford said. "Ask the minor leagues since they While most AL umps bar.k Davey Phillips who he gets were formally hired last the dissident group, the NL paid by. Whatever guys do for month. umµs arc near unanimous in Pilot Air Freight, it's gut noth­
"That's a clear contract vio­their support of Phillips. There ing to do with baseball. lation," Richie Phillips said. have been rumors that many There's other guys that have "It's a clear unilateral change NL umps will walk out next other jobs out tlrnre. What's in the contract. It's purposeful wiwk, and baseball has told the big deal?" 
Fall Break Setninars 
October 17-22, 1999 Experiential/Service Learning 
Center for Social Concerns 
:  INFOR>AATION MEETING  :  
:  SUNDAY, AUGUST 29  :  
:  ROLF/ IPORTI RECREATION CENTER  :  

APPALACHIA SEMINAR 
-Service Learning at one of 15 sites in the Appalachian region 
-One credit Theology 
CULTURAL DIVERSITY SEMINAR 
0Explore the cultural richness of Chicago Examine issues of diversity and related concerns One-credit Theology or Sociology 
Cosponsored with Multicultural Student Affairs 
WASHINGTON SEMINAR 
Theme: Jubilee Justice 2000-> 
Direct contact with political, agency, and 
Church leaders in Washington, D.C. 
-Service and political awareness opportunities 
-One-credit Theology or Government 
CHILDREN & POVERTY SEMINAR ~ -New seminar examining key children's concerns -Focus on direct service and policy initiatives -· Site: Boston or New York -One-credit Theology or Psychology 
Applications Available Now at the CSC 
CENTER FOil 
SOCIAL
Applications Due: Thursday, Sept. 9, 1999 
CONCERNS 
that yet. But we want our 
By RONALD BLUM 

union to be based on democ­AP Spom Wricer 
racy, with a non-dictatorial leadership." 
NEW YOHK The opposition group is 
The next fight for baseball headed by throe AL umps: umpires might be among Dave Phillips, not related to themselves. the union head,_Joe Brinkman 
As umpires filed a new and John Hirschbeck. They unfair labor practice charge voted last spring against giv­against owners. there were ing Richie Phillips a new con­indications lhe group opposed tract and were among the 27 to union head Richie Phillips umpires who refused to go will try to topple him next along with the union's strate­month. gy of mass resignations. caus­
The anti-Phillips faction has ing the plan to collapse. been organizing, a person Tho union had hoped to with knowledge of the group's force the start of negotiations activities said Wednesday on for a new labor deal. Instead. lhe condition he not be idcnti­22 umpires' resignations were licd. accepted, effective Sept. 2. 
Fourteen umpirPs, mostly in Umpires now claim the res­
· the AL, issued a statement last ignations were merely symbol­month criticizing Phillips and ic and want the NLRB to seek they have been seeking more an injunction to keep owners umµires to join them. from terminating the 22. It's They could try to force him unclear when the agency will out in a union vote, but it's act, and it may defer action to more likely they will file a an arbitrator. NLHB regional decertiJication petition with director Dan Silverman said the National Labor llelations last week the agency would Board. try to let the parties know its "That's to be determined," thinking before Sept. 2. said Dave Phillips, a senior "The leadership we have at umpire in the opposition prns1rnt is a leadership that group. "We haven't discussed has led these guys to absolute 
Advanced Jazz Dance 
.~·····························~­
• 2:00PM •
•

•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••.!'• 
Classes Will Meet: Mondays -6:30pm-7:45pm Thursdays -6:30pm-7:45pm RSRC Activity Rm. 2 Register in Advance at RecSports The Fee is $39.00 Sign-Ups Begin Monday, August 30 Classes Begin Monday, September 6 Space is Limited 
Now Try 
On Sunday! 
• 
Home Delivered On or Q}q,' Campus* for only $4.00/Sunday 

• 
Also save 60% OFF the daily NYT, delivered Monday through Saturday for only 40¢/Day 


Use Your Credit Card by Calling: 
1-800-535-5031 
Mention Media Code: SXXWR 
• Home Delivery may not be available to all areas 


.... 


friday, August 27, I999 The Observer . SPORTS 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Tigers edge out Mariners in eighth 
thre<) runs and seven hits in 7 1­Assodarccl Press ., :i innings. 
SEATTLE 

Ken Grilfoy Jr. hit n tiebrnak• ing saeril'ice Hy in the Pighth inning and .John llalama pilclrnd (\iJ.(ht strong innings to give the SPatlln Marinnrs IL :-1-2 victory ov(•r tlin l>Ptroit TigPrs 011 Wn<hrnsday night. 
llalama i 10-!i) gavP up two runs and (!ight hits, with no walks ancl four strikeouts, tn snap a 1wrsonal thrnn-game Ins• ing sln~ak. 
In Uw eighth. Brian Hunter got aboard with a onll•out bunt sin• gle and l!aJiwl Bournigal singled him to third IH'forP Grill'!~y dP!iv­nrncl Llw sacrifice fly to chwp CCIILl!I'. 
Tim TigPrs had a runrwr on second with one out in Llw nintl1. but ,losn l\fosa struck out tho l'inal lwo lrntlnrs for his 2<Jth savP in :{:{ chanc;ns as tlw Marirrnrs won thuir third straight. 
Brian Mochler 18-14) gave up 
If our delicious, flame-broiled double cheeseburger were any bigger, we'd need to buy more ad space. 

Nothing l1e,tts our h1g,juicy Double Cheeseburger. It's got the great t;lStc offlame hroiling and has 75% more beef than Mc I )onalJ's' Cheeseburger. 
(Price and par11c1pat1on may vary) 
The Huddle. LllfortureStudent Center 

It just tastes better. 
Cl 1996 Bui yo1 Kmy Cm~orahon 8u1ye1 King Corpora11on 1s lhc e~clus,.:e licensee o1 the Bun Ha1ves logn frade':'mk McDonakfs 1s a registered trademark ul ,he McOonald·s Corporahon 
The Mariners took a 2-0 lead in tho fourth on Akx Rodriguez's HBI double and Edgar Martinoz's HBI single. 
In the DPlroil lifth, Tony Clark hit his 22nd home run and Bobby lligginson, Uamion Easley and Gubu Kapler had consecu­tive singles lo tie the scorn at 2. 
Mariners third baseman Huss Davis startnd an inning-ending double play in the fourth after Kirnera Bartee led off with a triple. Arter Brad Ausmus struck out, ()pan Palmer hit a bouncer back to Davis, who tagged an off-the-base Bartee and then threw out Palmer at first. 
Mariners second baseman David Bell became ill in th<: Pighth and was replaced by Bournigal. 
Padres 4, Brewers 3 
Heggie S,mders hit a go-ahead, two-run triple in the sr,venth inning to back Andy Ashby and lift the San Diego Padrns to a 4-3 victory over the Milwaukee Brewers on Thursday. 
The Padn,s, who were outscored 33-3 by the Phillies in the last two games of their six­game mad trip, got a strong start from Ashby in their return homo. 
Ashby (1 2·7) allowed three runs -one earned -on eight hits in seven innings. The right­hander struck out six and did not walk a hatter. 
Trevor llol'f'man pitched the ninth for his 33rd save. 
Trailing 3-2, the Padres rallied to win in the seventh. John Vandcr Wal hit a one-out single off nocky r.oppinger (2-2) and Quilvio Veras walked. 
Ml.er Mike Myers gol. Tony Gwynn to fly out, David Weathers came in and allowed Sanders· fly ball down the right­field Jinn that scored Vander Wal and Veras. 
The Brewers, who have lost six of si,vm1, loaded tbe bases to start the seventh offAshby. 
page 25 

..... 
Radke ropes in win to snap Twins' streak 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS 

Brad Hadke is reluctant lo call himself an ace, but he pitched like one Wednesday night. 
Hadkc, coming back from his worst start of the season, pitched 7 1-3 strong innings to help the Minnesota Twins snap a three-game losing streak with a 6-3 victory over the Boston Red Sox. "Radke pitched the game 
that  we  needed  to  be  
pitched,"  manager  Tom  
Kelly said.  

"It's always nice to stop a losing ~trcak," said Hadkc, who tied his shortest career outing Friday night, allowing six runs in 1 2-3 innings, to the Yankees. 
This time, Radke (10-12) gave up four hits and two runs, orni earnnd. 
fie pitched six-plus innings and allowed three earned runs or less for the 17th time in 26 starts this season. 
lie also walked less than three batters for the 130th time in 157 career starts. But, when asked if he con­sidered himself an ace, Hadke shook his head. 
"An ace is someone like Pedro Martinez," Radke said. ''I'm just a guy who goes,,out there every five days. 
Hnn Coomer hnmered and drove in two runs and Matt Lawton added two RBIs for Minnesota, which avoided being swept by Boston at tlrn Metrodome for the first time since 1975. 
Damon Buford hit a solo homer in the ninth for Boston, which fell into a tie ror the wild card with Oakland. 
The Athletics lost to Cleveland 12-4 earlier in the day. 
"We just have to take care of ourselves," Boston man­ager Jimy Williams said. 
"We can't worry about 
THE NEW TRADITION 
Dining 

south Bend's newest Italian Restaurant Fresh Prepared Dinners, Pizza, Beverages 
Quoted as 'The Best Italian Restaurant in the area". 
Try us after the game 
ReseJ'Vlltions Recommended Located Down«own South Bend 25& S. Mic:higao St. 2H·1000 Dial Phone Appetit, 674-0900 C.&egory 844i6 for more info 
Oakland until we play them."  
Designated hitter Mike Stanley agreed.  
"There's still a month to  
go," Stanley said. "You can't  
make much of one loss." "I don't even know what  
the standings look like," said  
Boston's Nomar  
Garciaparra. who was 1-for­ 
4 with a stolen base. Mark Portugal (7-12) lost  
his fourth straight start. allowing eight hits and six  
runs in 5 2-3 innings.  
Portugal. wbo lost four con­secutive decisions earlier in  
the year, walked two and  ...  
struck out three.  
Minnesota scored two runs  
in the first inning beforn making an out. .Jacque Jones led off with  
an infield single and Donny llocking reached on first baseman Brian Dauhach's  
fielding error.  
Marty Cordova walked to  
load the bases and Lawton  
drove in two runs with a  
broken-bat. bloop single lo  
center. "Any time you get a hit like  
that with the bases loaded  
it's good," Lawton said. "It  
came at a pretty good lime."  
Coomer hit Portugal's first  
pitch of the fourth inning  
409 feet to left. giving Minnesota a 3-0 lead. It was Coomer's 15th homer, tying the earner-high he set last  ..  
season.  
Boston scored an unearned  
run in the 11l'th to make it 3­ 
1. Trot Nixon led off with a single.  
One out later, Scott H~tteberg hit a l1y ball th at  
went off Jones' glove at the  
wall in center field.  
Jose Offerman then  
grounded out to drive in  
Nixon.  
Minnesota.made it (i-1 in  
the sixth inning on Coorner's HBI doubla, Terry Steinbach's run-scoring  
triple and Corey Koskie's HBI single. ·  
Daubach hit an HBI single  
in the eighth to makn it 6-2.  

1­
, 
I I 
page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, August 27, 1~99 
...... 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Rocky start ends in 
Tampa trounces Chicago 9-7 
8-4 Colorado loss 
Associated Press 
By ALAN ROBINSON 
AP Sports Write, 
PITTSBURGH 
Fur Brian Giles, it was another satisfying arternoon in a satisfying season. For Pedro Astacio, it was a day straight out of Coors field, 1wen though he was in Three Rivers Stadium. 
Giles drove in four runs and the Pittsburgh Pirates rough0,d up Astacio for six runs in the first two innings of an 8-4 virtorv over the Colorado Hoc0 kies on Thursday. 
Al Martin had threC' hits and two RBIs to back rookie left-hander Jimmy Anderson (2-1), who retired thr first 10 hitters before being lifted after 5 2-3 innings in his third career start. 
Astacio '14-10) had won four consecutive decisions and lasted at least seven innings in his last eight starts, only to yield six runs and seven hits in two innings. 
It was an unwanted turn­around for Astacio, who had pitched nine innings in three of his four starts this month and was 4-0 in his last six starts against Pittsburgh. 
"I knew he wasn't right

... 
before the game," Rockies manager Jim Leyland said. "He wasn't the same warm­ing up and I could see it from the bench once he got in there. He said he was OK, but his velocity was down some." 
''I'm concerned about it. That wasn't Pedro. I don't know what the problem is. I just hope it's not his shoul­der." 
Astacio's ERA jumped from 
4. 73 -good by Coors Field standards -to 4.96 with a quick, ineffective outing than seemed more likely in Coors than in pitcher-friendly Pittsburgh. 
Astacio blamed bad pitch­ing, not a bad arm. "I just didn't have a good day," he said. "lt's just one of 
tRI
C t ~ 1 t " r Cl 1" 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 

Tampa Bay has won nine of 12 and improved to 14-10 in August. The Devil Rays need just one win in their next four games to record their first win­ning month. 
Chicago's Magglio Ordonez surpassed the 100-Rl:ll mark for the first time in his career with a two-run double in the sev­enth, giving him a team-best 101 HBis. 
Carlos Lee added three HB!s for the White Sox, who lost for just thr fifth time in 15 gamrs. 
Lee, who had seven RBIs in the four-game series, hit a two­run doublr in the sixth inning. 
Rick White (5-2) replaced Tampa Bay starter Dave Eiland, who left with left hip soreness with two outs in the third inning.. White allowed three 
"-runs and five hits in three 
innings. 

Hoberto Hernandez pitched 
the ninth to convert his 14th 
consecutive save opportunity 
since Jumi 30. He has 35 saves 
in 38 chances this season. 

Eiland's injury is not consid­
rred serious and that he should 
be ready for his next scheduled 
start. 

Chicago's .John Snyder (9-9) 
was chased after giving up eight 
runs and eight hits in 4 1-3 
innings. He has allowed five 
homers in 10 innings during his 
past two starts. 

Paul Sorrento snapped an 1­
for-15 slump with a first-inning 
HBI single that put the Devil 
Rays up 1-0. 

Jose Canseco made it 2-0 with 
a run-scoring single in the third. 
those days that happens. I felt good. Sometimes you're just guing to have a bad day." 
Giles had a sacrifice fly in a two-run Pirates first inning and a three-run triple in the serond that made it 6-0. Giles needs six RBIs to drive in 100 runs for the first time in his career. 
"I didn't really set any number goals," said Giles, who had 66 RBIs as a part­time starter in Cleveland last season. "l had never played a full season before. But I always knew I wuld play if I got the chance. Thcy didn't need me over there, but I thought I could do this if I got to play." 
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. 
Bubba Trammell hit a three­run homer and Jose Guillen had a two-run shot as the Tampa Bay Devil Rays Leat the Chicago White Sox 9-7 Thursday. 
Trammell homered during a four-run, fifth-inning that put thP Devil TTays ahead 8-1. Guillen, acquired from the Pittsburgh Pirates in a four­player trade on July 23, hit his first Tampa Bay homer in the fourth. 
Wade Boggs went 2-for-4, raising his hi.ts total to 3.010 with an an RBI double in the fifth and an infield single in the ei~hth He also had a sacrificr fly in the sixth. 
:-Vfartin added run-scoring 
singles in the third and thr fifth, when he stopped an O­for-27 streak against left­handrrs with a hit off Rigo Beltran. That hit followed the second hit by Anderson, who earlier crossed up a drawn-in Rockies infield by slapping the ball into right field to drive in the first run of the four-run second inning. 

Pirates pitchers are 7-for­11 with two RBIs in their last four games. 
Terry Shumpert's seventh homer, in the fourth, was the first hit off Anderson, who left following two singles, a walk and a run-scoring error by third baseman Ed Sprague in a two-run sixth. Todd Helton hit his 25th homer. in the seventh off Greg Hansell. •••
"Jimmy's going ·to be a good pitcher if he gets more •
•

consistent with his control," Pirates manager Gene Lamont said. "He can handle ••• 
the bat and can field his posi­•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
tion, and a pitcher can help himself out if he does that." The Rockies are 1"-5 against 
Beginner Jazz Dance •• 
•
& 

i.',:::"'r 
;~~ 
•

Classes Meet: 7:45pm-9:00pm 
• 

7:45pm-9:00pm Activity Room ·• .· s Recrfation Center 
Information Mi, ,, ·c?undd~,' Aug~~i~'29, 2:30pm Activity Room0~,~if~ Sports"'Recre"a · ·. n Center 
7~; '·

11' Register in Adv ... ~c:Sports .. , fee Sign-Ups Begin Monday, · ··· , ;~!<)Oam 
•

Classes Begin Mond~ 
•
• 
•
• 

left-handed starters this 
Notre Dame vs. Michigan ~ Student nc11e1 Lonerv 
month, losing to Chris Peters and Anderson the last two days. 
"If I'm an opposing manag­The last four digits of the winning lottery numbers are listed below. 
er, 1 would pitch soft-throw­ing left-handers against us,•· Helton said. 6049 6431 6765 6989 7349 
6091 6495 6785 7001 7371 6111 6504 6802 7011 7383 
6148 6553 6808 7086 7397 6572 6844 7096 7399
Welcome Back 
6162 
6192 6573 6847 7105 7402
SSP -NYSP -LIP ­
6226 6596 6852 7149 7442
ISSLP & CHD Students 
6253 6599 6855 7155 7444. REMINDER 6262 6615 6861 7165 7446 6263 6620 6862 7174 7470 
HELP SAVE THE EARTH. PLEASE: RECYCLE THE OBSERVER. 
Summer Service Project Celebration 
6335 6636 6868 7177 7558 
The Center for Social Concerns would like to welcome the Summer 
6355 6670 6869 7181 7604 
Service students back to campus with a celebration to share the wonderful experiences that each student had over the summer while 
6358 6702 6908 7193 7629 
participating in summer programs. 
6359 6705 6926 7205 7639 
•You will also arrange for a follow-up meeting at this time .... except NYSP)• 
6360 6722 6928 7210 7651
(unless you are parllcip,iting in the Retreat on 9/4 from 9 AM -5 PM) 
6361 6731 6937 7258 7653
H 6roup photo will be taken at the celebration. Please bring photos from' your summer 
6369 6739 6957 7314 7667 
eHperiences! 
6374 6745 6966 7316 7702 Date: Saturday, August 28, 1999 
6385 6756 6981 7346 7712 Time: 9:00 AM to 11:30 AM 
6413 6763 

(the celebration will be over in time for football game activities) 
Place: Center for Social Concerns 
Lottery winners may bring their winning ticket to the LaFortune Information Desk and purchase two tickets at $35 each. Winners have until noon,
DON'T FORGET TO SIGN UP FOR YOUR 20 MINUTE "DEBRIEFING" 
8/30/99 to purchase their tickets. Remaining tickets will then be offered to any ND/HG/SMC students on a first come, first served basis until 9/1/99, 
For further information call the Center for Social Concerns at 631-5293 
at which time any unpurchased tickets will be returned to Michigan. 
hiday, August 27, 199() Thi' Observa . TODA Y page 27 
TOM KEELEY JEH BEAM
FOURTH AND INCHES A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD 
-
Lc,oK Ai' 1\¼i" GU'/. E:V E-R'i f'\OR.N I NC::i, : A"f E)'-Ac..-n..'i' SE.VEN I\.M, I-If SIT~ IN 
\:t'-1\c.Tl-Y SE:Vc\'J A.I'\. HE 1\-IAT £)<.P..C't" S'i'D'i AND E.AT..:> \ti.::, 
AND .STI\ RES TI-\ROVG\.1-11-\G: 
NOTRE-D 
& 
~! 
BlLLAMEND

Fox TROT (DILBERT HAs Movrn rn THE v1EwP01Nr PAGEs.) 
So Etll-lER S!iE UH·
) 

l<tlLED You, Huti. 

... 

Inevitably, there is one guy who takes things too far. 
baam.1 @nd.edu 



CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 30 Attaches another clip 
1 Under control 33 Creator of the 
1 Substituted for 
Red Cross 14 Commune 
Knightdweller, maybe 
34 Designer Pucci 1s Risk-taker's 
35 Like many asell-question 

contrast 1e Harlequinade 
36 More stable 11 Studio workers 
37 Medium-range1a Cold symptom? ballistic missiles 
21 251.9 cals. 38 It has you seeing things 
22 Non-P.C. suffix •1 Moors
23 Off 42 Get the class
24 Losing hope? 
back together 25 Seafood 
43 Abolitionistselection 

Coffin 26 Old hag 
44 Ivy Leaguer 21 Kind of goose 
45 Queen's 28 4-Down, for one subjects 
29 Communication 47 Like some between planes? instructions 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

49 Thyroid treatment 
so Brimming 
s1 Having less top growth 
s:1. Dirty campaigner 
53 Mighty mounts 
DOWN 
1 Copier component 2 Emphatic denial 3 Knee-slapper 
4 Sambuca flavoring s "Good shot!" 6 Western figure 1 Far from easygoing e Body a It's often 

italicized  
10  Peter Gunn's  
girlfriend  
11  They may be  
assigned to  
45-Across: Abbr.  29 30  Messy dish Back from  
12  Some  vacation, say  
53-Across  31  Modern  
13  Life, for one  correspondents  
1e  California gold  32  Bookkeeping  
rush name  entry  
2.0 Pleat producers  33  Grave marker  
24  Had a shot  35  React to the  
2e  One of the  cold, in a way  
Huxtables  37  Cylindrical with  
21  Round  tapered ends  
components?  38  Lodge  


40  Ungiving group  46  It can be  
42  Whal "Henry" means, literally  48  checked One who  
43  It may be in a  swings a good  
stew  deal  

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by tou.ch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Pee--wee Herman. Tuesday Weld, Barbara Bach, Lyndon B. Johnson 
Happy Birthday: There is nothing standing in your way this year. Go after your dreams, hopes and wishes, and you will find the satisfaction and contentment you desire. Love and romance can be yours if you get out and enjoy yourself. Join organizations that you believe in and you will dis­cover a new means of socializing. You will reap the rewards for your efforts. Your numbers: 10, 18, 21, 33, 39, 48 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): This could be an upsetting day. Your per• sonal position may be threatened by someone who may not have been completely honest with you. Don't be pressured into confrontations. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): This is a great day lo beautify your living quarters or entertain at your home or cottage. You can help other people with their financial problems by giv­in); them advice, but don't give cash. 
0000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): If you've been spending too much time with friends and not enough time with your lover, expect to hear about it. Try to make plans that will calm their nerves and put you back into their good books. 00 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Lazi­ness on the home front will cause arguments. It is best to avoid emo­1ional confrontations. Be cautious when operating equipment. 00000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You can gam popularity with your colorful wit. Don't try to do it by paying for everyone else. Your bankbook will suffer, and your restrictions will put a damper on your relationship. 000 
EUGENIA LAST 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Dis­

ruption.s al home are likely Listen t,, 
the complain ts of those you love or be 
prepared to be on your own for a 
while. You need tu be understanding. 
not critical. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): You 

need to get away, but you will have t,, 
be careful not to travel to places that 
could present danger. You need to be 
able to sit back, relax and enjoy thl' 
scenery. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You 

will be overly emotional. Do not react 
too harshly when dealing with part­
ners. Travel and social activity will 
bring about interesting talks and open 
doors that you thought were closed in 
the past. 00000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): 

You will be excitable and eager to 
take part in group activities. New 
romantic ties can be made, but you 
must make sure that your motives aw 
not selfish before you make your 
move.00 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22·Jan. 19): Difficulties with authority figures or prublems while traveling could lead to delays. Don't be afraid to let others know how you feel about them. 
0000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Get together with friends or relatives. You can get a lot done around the house ii you ask others to pitch in and hdp It's hme to resume those hobbies that you left by the wayside. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Th,, time to lJlake changes is nc,w. You need to recycle, renew and redo. You 
-
niafneed to sit down and discuss the way you feel with your mate. Look at all your options and don't be afraid to follow your gut feelings. 000 
Birthday Baby: You have a natural way of viewing life. You are ~cntle but forceful in your attempts to get your own way. Because of this, you aren't likely to face many negatives throughout your life. Your motto is to ask and you will receive. You are honest, open and sensitive to those you encounter. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromale.com.) 
(1·1 ltJ4l) U111\'l'rsal rressSyndic,1lt' 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 
Pu hi islwd Mon day through Friday, The Obs(1rvnr is a vital sourcn of information on JH'opln and ev<mts in the Noln\ Dame and Saint Mary's C<'>mmunity. 
.loin tho morn than 13,000 readers who have l'ound Tim Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
..
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, TN 46556 D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year D Enclosed is $45 for one semester Name ________________________ Address------------------~ 
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
.. 
• 



Irish prerogative 
Bobby Brown fought through 
-
a 1998 wrist injury and is prepared to lead Notre Dame into the Eddie Robinson Classic 
PORTS 
against Kansas. 
Irish Insider 
O
TH[ page 28 BSERVER Friday, August 27, 1997 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Irish hope four backs are key to '99 Final Four 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Associate Sports Editor 

An old adage says "II' it ain't broke, don't fix it." 
If one l'ollowml convention­al wisdom, a defense that finished second in tho Big 
I East in goals-against-aver­
I 
I age and first in shutouts I would rnrnai11ed unchang1:d.
I 
Women's soccer coach
! 
Randy Waldrum, howevnr,I hopes that straying from conventional wisdom will
t 
I result in an even better 
I I 
defonsi~ in l 999. I After playing with threeI defensive backs in I 9<J8, 
I 
Waldrum has instituted a 
I t 
I 
four back system and moved star playors around to accommodate the new chil'Pn­I sive system.Waldrum said that the new four-back sys­tem will make Notrn Danrn 
stronger on defense. 

I 
"Wn felt more coml'ortablP that it ltlw four-back systPml was able to cover morP ground defonsively," he said. "It's a givPs us a littlP bit ~ morn safoty defensivdy." 
In order lo accommodatP! thP dol'r.nsi ve switch. ll11\ I Irish had to move one of tlw I midl'ieldPrs to the backlirw. 
Despite having fewer playPrs
I 
in the midfield. Waldrum said lw does not think tlw of'fonse will suffer. 
"Wn !'el t Ii ke tlw kind ol' players we put in the back four were also o!'fonsivn\y­minded players and this sys­tem allows us some sal'etv defensively." he said. ­
"But also enablfis those players to get involvnd in tlrn 
see SOCCER/page 22 
-
Top-finisher Yarello returns to lead Saint Mary's pack 

By KATIE McVOY Sports Writer 
On the field and off, junior Genevieve Yavcllo is looked to for leadership, experience, strength, and support. 
Yavello. one of seven returning runners from the 1998 Saint f\1ary's cross couns try team, is orrn of the Bellns' top finishers. 
Last seas·on slrn ran a con­sistent 20 minutes, 30 sec" onds and was regularly Saint

• Mary's second place runner. 
During tlrn MIAA cross country championship. she finished with a strong 33rd place. finish. Her 20:24 tinrn was right b1ihind l'ellow team leader ~elissa Goss. 

"[Yavello] is one of the most hardworking dedicated people I know," said teammate Melissa Miller. 
"She ahvays goes out there and gives 100-percent." 
Yavel\o has always been a top finislrnr for Saint Mary's, and· hopes to be one again this season. 
However, she sets verv real­istic goals for herself a·nd for her team. 
"I'm very, very exci~ed about our tnam this year." said Yavcllo. 
"Thern's a lot of talent so everything is up for grabs. But I hope to help lead the tc,am. l hope to improve my time from la.st year. but l realize that it is most impor­
tant to do my best and have fun.·· 
Yavello started running her freshman year in high school, making this her seventh sea­son as a runner. 
She did not start running for glory or health but instead to be with her sister. 
"I startr,d, honestly," said Yavello; "because mv sister was on the team a-nd she loved it I though it would be a great experience with my sister," 
Yavcilo has found that run­ning at a women's college is a very rewarding experience. Most athletes find support from teammates. 
At Saint Mary's, Yavello finds support from students 
and faculty as well. 
"The professors really take pride in women's athletics," 
she said.  
Off  tlrn  l'ield,  Yavello  is  
counted  on  as  a  friend and  
supporter.  

She is currently a resident advisor at McC:a.nclless. lier teammates say they can count on her for anything. 
"She's the kind of person anyone likes to see corning at them," said Miller, "because she always has a kind word. You have to love her." 
The freshmen on the team know they can count on Yavello. 
."She's really personable," said freshman Nicole Prezioso. 
"She made me !'eel lik(\ 1 was really a part of' the lPam. She is very supportive and positive as a teammatn and as a person." 
Yavello, an education major, wants to continue to help others. 
Her future plans include running as a part of' a whole. 
"I hope running is always a big part of' my Ii f'e." !-aid Yavello. 
"My life goals arc to be tlw best tea(:lrnr I can bP, to raise a good family and to bP happy." 
Yavfi]lo has proven hcrscll' as an impressive runner and an important leader. 
On the field anrl of'!', Ya\'ello leads the pack. 
... 
vs. Kansas at Northwestern Saturday, 2:30 p.m. Sept. I, 4 p.m.
I~ Cross Country
SPORTS 

• •ar Valparaiso lnviraional 
ATA vs. North Carolina Volleyball Sept. 11. IO a.111.
.. ­
;.!) Sept. 3, 7:30 p.m. vs. Valparaiso Sept. 1, 7 p.m.
GLANCE 

• ­
-


SH 
NSIDER
• 
O
THE 

Friday, August 27, 1999 BSERVER Notre Dame vs. Kansas 
B OB B Y BROWN 
Handling the pressure 



JOHN DAILY/The Observer After a senior season marred by Injury, fifth-year spilt end Bobby Brown returns to the field to take matters Into his own hands. Brown looks to return to his out­standing 1997 form In hopes of leading the lrlsh to their first bowl victory since the 1993 season. See the. cover story on page 3. 

KICK-OFF FORECAST
INSIDE 

game preview.......... ....page 2 
'98 record: 9-3 

'98 record: 4-7 
home: 6-o
rosters........................ page 4 
home: 3-3 
away: 3-2 
vs. 


away: 1-4
focus on opponent.. ......page 5 
gametime: 2:30 p.m.. ND time

college games today.. ...page 6 
weather: party cloudy with a 

pregame commentary... .page 7 
high of86 degrees 

page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, August 27, 1999 
game hype 
Anxiety s~ts in f9r seas9n opener 
By BRIAN KESSLER 
Sports Editor 
The Eddie Robinson Classic will offer head coach Bob Davie a chance Saturday to see just where his 18th­ranked Irish team stands. 
"I think all of us, obviously, arc anxious," Davie said. "You really don't know. You think you know what you have, you hope that you've made some progress. You hope that you're a better football team. The bottom line is that you really don't know until Saturday." 
The same goes for Terry Allen's Javhawks, who are coming off adisappointing 4-7 season in which they won only one conference game. Allen's team is still searching for its identity, especially on defense. The Jayhawks surrendered over 230 yards per game in the run-dominated Big 12 Conference. Kansas, however, is taking a positive outlook into Saturday's showdown. 
"The anxiety we feel for the Notre Dame game is more a sense of excitement and opportunity," Kansas head coach Terry Allen said. 
"I know Kansas is excited to play in this game," Davie said. "I realize this is a great opportunity for Kansas, pretty much a bowl game." 
Davie is taking a Lou Holtz­like stance and downplaying the lop-sided matchup where the Irish are heavy favorites. 
"This is going to be a close game," Davie said. "This is the first game of the year. First 
. .
... 

games are always concerns. They [Kansas] arc explosive. Both their tailbacks are quick and can make big plays any­time during the game. They're a great team." 
"This is the biggest game of the season and that's the approach we're taking," added junior defensive end Grant Irons. "We're looking forward to Kansas. Our focus right now is them. As athletes, we know the importance of taking one game at a time." 
After three weeks of intense drills and conditioning, Irons and the rest of the squad hope 
' I
. . 
their hard work pays off when the Jayhawks come to town. 
"I think this week was criti­cal to ,r;et everyt_hin.? fi~e­tuned, Irons said. We ve worked real hard this summer on working out and we're excited about Kansas." 
Preparing for the Jayhawks has been a difficult task for Davie and his staff. 
• "I see is a lot of schemes on both sides of the ball and in the kicking game," Davie said. "They're multiple on defense, they do a lot of offense, they change the things in the kick­ing game. They're a tough 

Bob Davie Irish coach 
"The anxiety wefeelfor Notre Dame is more a sense ofexcitement and opportu­nity." 

Grant Irons defensive end 
"When you play against Notre Dame. you are going to step up your level of competition. " "I think Kansas is treating this game like a bowl game." 

Terry Allen Jayhawks coach 
"At this paint, we just want to be 1-0. '' 



team to prepare for." 
Davie's main concern, how­ever, is how his team has pro­gressed in the offseason. 
"I'd like to think we're bet­ter; I'm not sure," he said. "You look at our offense, I do think we 're more explosive than we've been. I'm anxious to see if we can get some big plays. You look at our wide receivers, the one thing we've done c,onsistently throughout this camp is we've been able to throw and catch the foot­ball. And I hope we can con­tinue that because I do think we're better there." 


Logan Special:  Orig.  Logan  
Retail  Special  
Selected ND T-Shirts ...... ; .................................. $24.95  $9.95  
Selected ND Hats.. ........................................... $19.95  $9.95  
Notre Dame Lightweight Jacket... ..................... $53.95  $24.95  

· -Check Out the Great Selection of Notre Dame Products at the Logan Center-
Saturday August 28th, 1999 8 a.m. until 2:30 p.m. 
The First 50 Purchasing Customers REceive A $15.00 Nd Gift Compliments of the Logan Center Logan Center located South of the Stadium at the Corner of Eddy, Edison and Juniper 
Hey Sports Fans, 
Have you been searching for a convenient way to buy sports tickets? 
Are you looking for a quick and easy way to auction your sports tickets at a price you want? 
Where can you find one web site that satisfies all you "gameday" needs, such as hotels, restaurants, and entertainment? 
KeyPlay.com 


Friday, August 27, 1999 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Brown c,l1anges setbacks into success 
• Brown looks to regain his 1997 form in 1999 
By TIM CASEY 
Spom Writer 
It didn't takP long for Bohby 
Brown to nrnkr. his collegr. 
dt>cision. 
Lr.ss than 24 hours after his 
visil lo Notni IJanw on Jan. 
20, 199:i, Brown was con­
vincr.d of his choir:r. after 
spending timr. with future 
tPa111matPs Shawn Woodnn, 
l.aH.on Moorn, Ivory Covington 
and J\111111 Hossum. 
"The whol11 tinw I camr. up 
IH'l'f\, the only thing that I 
could think about was how 
cold il was," Brown recalled. 
"But tlwn Saturday night, I 
was out in Urn cold and I 
couldn't r,1rd it anymore, 
hr.cause all Urn guys accepted 
uw lik11 I was a brother. 
"That night I called my 
mothor at fiv11 in tho morning 
and told lwr l made my deci­
sion. She rnspect<Hl my 
clrnicn," hn addnd. "I forgot 
about tlrn climate and thought 
about nvnrything that was 
going on around me. I knew 
tlwn that Notrn Dame was the 
placri for mn." 
And so lwgan Brown's Notre 
Damn carnnr. 
At limns, it's b1rn11 outstand­
i11 g. In ollwr cas11s, lw has 
struggled. But through it all. 
Brown has continued to battle. 
The l'il'th-yPar sPnior from Lauderhill. Fla.. came into his own in 1997. Tlw Irish leader in catches and touchdown nicr\ptions, Brown was the key nwmlwr of tlw passing attack. 
;\ year later, the adulation lurrwd into frustration. An 1•arly season wrist injury sl11wnd his progress. Brnwn rnsponded late in the season, including a crucial 15-yard catch on third-and-long in the third pnriod against Arizona Statn to put the Irish up 21-3, but lw was 1wver I00 pHrcAnt in the gamn. 
At tlrn tinw, hmtd coach Bob Davie alluded that Brown was tlw rnceivnr who most consis­tnn tly blocked. Brown, howev­nr, didn't want to ho known as just a blocker. 
"As a recniver, you never want to hear that you're a grnat blocker," Brown said. "Dun to my injury, they didn't havo the conl'idencn that I could do the same things I did ttw year hiifore. 
"But I wanted the people, wlwn thny look at me, tu see som<1orrn who didn't feel sorry for himself'. 
"I.ast year was pretty rough," Brown continued. "In athletics. things don't always go your way, but it's some­thing that makes a man out of you.Tim ones who can survive an• usually the ones who end up on top and the ones who can't, usually foll by the way­sido. Hopcf'ully, I'll encl up on top." 
To climb to the top, Brown, 

Bobby Brown 
position: split end 
year:jifth-year senior 
awards: SuperPrep prep All 
American 
notables: leading Irish 
reciever in 1997. 
finished with 
highest yards-per­
catch avergage in 
t998 
along wilh the majority of 
players, stayed on campus this 
summer to practice. Besides 
taking one summer school 
course, Brown worked out five 
days a week with quar­
terback Jarious Jackson. 
"Workouts this summer 
were really intense," Brown 
said. "Guys were willing to 
give up their summers, which 
is kind of' l'oroign for us. 
Usually we have a week or so 
to go home after summer 
school. 

"This year, we knew with the early start that we had to give up the summer. We made sum we did it right." 
When summer camp started, Hrown was eager to prove last year's skeptics wrong. 
"I started off camp on a rampage, feeling that I had a lot to prove and l still feel that way," Brown said. ''I've got to prove to myself that I can bounce back. 
"In proving it to myself, hopefully I will show the peo­p I e who doubted me last year;" he added. "But I didn't go anywhere. I just put it on pause for a second." 
Working under new offen­sive coordinator Kevin Rogers also excites Brown. ln his tenure at Syracuse, Rogers' teams always ranked among the nation's top offenses. · 
"He's great; his numbers don't lie." Brown said of his now offensive coordinator. "What he did at Syracuse was proof. I ask him everyday [to throw more than they did last year.] [fo probably gets sick of me asking him, but I think we'll throw more to keep the defnnse a little off guard and keep them on their heels." 
Brown is unsure where he will be after college. 
He bas already met his graduation requirements, but decided to defer a year to earn a minor in African­American studies. Once the season is over, however, he plans to relax -in a warm climate. 
"Maybe I'll fly out to Jamaica and sit back with a few of my teammates -Raki !Nelson!, Jarious !Jackson], Lamont IBryant] and others," 

11,. • Jo _·/#.1~/...\-..\' 
* ~ i 
,, 
JOHN DAIL Yfrhe Observer 

Bobby Brown, shown here In last year's game against Baylor, exploded onto the scene In 
1997 when he caught 45 passes for 543 yards and six touchdowns. Brown hopes to lead the 
Irish to a national title this year. 
said Brown. "Just kick back ''I'm ready to move on As long as he's on the and look at the future. Of whenever that book closes. ff I beach, wearing a ring course, I want to play in the don't play in NFL, I may take inscribed "2000 National NFL but I'm not one of those the LSAT and go to law Champions," Brown will bo guys that has to do it. school." satisfied. 

birthdate: March 26, I 977 best moment on the Notre Dame Future plans: NF!, or law 
hometown: Lauderhill, Fla. field: catching winning school major: government touchdown against Chose Notre Dame over: Boston minor: African-American West Virginia in 1997 College, Northwestern, 
up close & 
personal 
studies best moment at Notre Dame off Florida State, Ohio State dimensions: 6joot-2, the field: community service Favorite Bobby Brown song : My in South Bend Prerogative
WITH BOBBY BROWN 193 pounds 
page4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, August 27, 1999 
1999 FIGHTING IRISH 

IN POSITION: Defensive Line 

s 
0 0 
OCI, Otl:-' 
Nov.ct, N0V4J3 NOV':20 Nov,'IJ 
Davie 
Irish coach 
Name DckcCooper 
third season at Notre Dame 
career record: 
r6-9 
at Notre Dame: 
r6-9 
against Kansas: 
0-0 
Roster 
Pos. Ht. WL YR FS 6-2 220 SR 

Without two starters, the defensive line depth will be tested on Saturday. 
Injuries wrack defensive line 
tion mark. 
Observer Staff Report 

Coming into the 1999 season, many Irish fans believed that this year's defensive line was the deepest and most talented unit since the early '90s. 
Injuries, however, have turned what was once considered the foundation of the defense into something of a ques-
DEPTH CHARTS 
JOHN DAILY/The Observer 

Senior Lance Legree is out with a knee injury and sophomore Anthony Weaver is questionable with a knee sprain. 
Without Weaver and Legree, the rotation on the defensive line will be thrown off and the line might not be as fresh against the explosive Kansas offense. 
1999 JAYHAWKS 


second season at Kansas  
Allen Jayhawks coach  career record: 84-39 at Kansas: 9-13 against Notre Dame: o-o  

Roster  
No.  Name  Pos.  Ht.  Wt.  YR  
1  Harrison Hill  WR  5-11  185  so  
2  Bryon Gasaway  WR  &-4  185  so  
3  Jahmal Wright  OB  5-8  180  SR  
5  Thad Rawls  OLB  5-11  210  SR  
6  Jay Alexander  Qil  6-2  200  JR  
6  Bilal Cook  DB  5-10  180  JR  
7  Quincy Rose  DB  5-9  180  so  
8  Termaine Fulton  WR  5-10  188  JR  
8  Marcus Rogers  LB  &-1  235  so  
9  Ocasio Cofield  OLB  6-3  215  so  
9  Jake Letourneau  QB  6-2  190  FR  
10  Jonas Weatherbie  QB  &-2  200  FR  
11  Spencer Peterson  DB  5-7  155  FR  
12  Eric Patterson  WR  6-1  205  JR  
14  Zac Wegner  QB  &-2  220  SR  
14  Jacob Berryman  DB  5-11  175  FR  
15  Kevin Toles  WR  &-4  200  FR  
15  Curt Freyhofer  p  5-8  155  FR  
16  Tim Bowers  OLB  &-0  220  JR  
17  Brandon Wier  DB  &-2  185  so  
18  Chad Coellner  DB  6-0  200  SR  
19  TD.Calhoun  DB  5-9  180  so  
19  Barry Goodrich  WR  &-1  180  FR  
20  11,!itch Bowles  RB  5-8  190  SR  
22  David Winbush  RB  5-7  175  JR  
22  Nathan Hernadez  DB  5-10  185  JR  
23  M. Abdul-Rahim  DB  &-0  180  SR  
24  Andrew Davidson  DB  5-11  195  so  
25  Carl Shazor  DB  &-3  185  FR  
26  Matt Jordan  DB  5-10  185  FR  
26  Joe Koehly  DB  5-11  185  FR  
27  Kareem High  DB  5-10  200  JR  
28  Henri' Childs  RB  6-2  205  so  
29  Matt Tyler  p  &-3  215  SR  
29  Marcellus Jones  WR  5-11  185  FR  
30  Joe Garcia  K  6-0  175  JR  
31  Scott Rogers  LB  6-2  230  JR  
32  Kevin Kufeldt  DB  5-11  180  so  
33  Moran Norris  FB  6-2  245  JR  
34  Mike Lewis  RB  6-0  180  so  
35  Trace Haskell  DB  6--0  170  FR  
36  Tyrus Fontenot  FB  5-8  230  SR  
37  Joey Pelfanio  p  6--1  205  JR  
37  Carl Arnold  RB  5-5  160  SR  
38  Greg Erb  DB  &-0  185  SR  
39  Tywanne Aldridge  DB  &-0  180  JR  
40  Ty Cohoon  DB  &-0  210  JR  
41  Dion Rayford  DE  &-3  260  SR  
41  Brian Tracy  K  5-9  150  FR  
43  Tarmer Hancock  DB  5-10  170  JR  
45  Victor Bullock  OLB  6-2  250  JR  
45  Michael Everlove  RB  &-1  235  FR  
46  Carl Horton  RB  5-11  190  FR  
47  Ryan Currier  WR  6-1  210  so  
49  Jay Furguson  TE  &-3  225  so  
51  Dariss Lomax  LB  &-2  230  JR  
53  Bob Smith  OT  &-4  275  so  
55  Andrew LeClair  LB  6-6  235  so  
56  Bob Schmidt  C  &-1  280  JR  
56  Thane Douglas  DB  6-1  200  FR  
57  Jason Stevenson  0G  &-2  285  so  
57  Colin Meisinger  LB  5-11  205  FR  
58  Ryan Brock  DE  &-4  270  JR  
59  John Williams  NT  &-2  300  SR  
60  Nick Smith  C  &-4  270  FR  
61  Justin Sands  DE  &-7  265  FR  
63  Dion Johnson  DE  &-4  290  SR  
65  Kyle Grady  0G  &-4  305  FR  
66  Marc Owen  0G  &-2  320  JR  
67  Scott Simpson  NT  &-2  320  FR  
68  Chris Enneking  C  6-4  280  SR  
69  Jeff Redhage  DE  6-6  265  SR  
70  Gai:,eRosalis  OT  &-5  275  FR  
71  john Oddonetto  0G  6-5  285  JR  
72  William McKinnis  NT  5-10  315  JR  
74  Will Wohlford  NT  5-8  230  FR  
74  Mark Molamphy  NT  6-3  278  FR  
75  Justin Hartwig  OT  &-4  290  so  
76  Ben Coleman  OT  6-4  300  so  
78  Chuck Jarvis  OT  6-6  315  JR  
80  Jason Gulley  TE  6-3  255  JR  
81  Steve Kullberg  TE/LS  &-5  240  SC  
82  Anton Paige  WR  &-5  185  FR  
83  John Jeffries  WR  &-0  180  FR  
84  Algen Williams  WR  &-1  185  JR  
85  Sean McDermott  TE/LS  6-3  240  SR  
86  Michael Chandler  WR  5-!J  195  SR  
87  Charlie Hoag  WR  5-10  170  so  
88  David Hurst  TE  6-3  245  FR  
89  Adrian Hernandez  WR  6-1  185  FR  
90  Mark DeBaun  DE  6-4  230  FR  
90  Chris Doyle  LB  6-0  210  JR  
91  Adam Miller  DE  6-5  240  50  
92  Nate Dwyer  NT  6-3  300  so  
93  Kareem Carter  DE  6-6  270  SR  
94  Mitchell Scott  LB  &-3  230  FR  
95  Jeremy Hanak  DE  &-6  250  SR  
97  Cha.i:Murphy  OLB  6-4  252  JR  
98  Algie Atkinson  DE  6-5  220  so  


No. 
1 
2 3 4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
8 
9 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
14 15 16 16 17 17 18 19 20 21 22 
23 
24 25 26 27 28 28 29 30 32 3-3 
34 
35 35 36 37 39 39 40 40 41 42 44 45 46 47 48 50 51 52 53 
54 
55 56 56 57 57 58 
60 
61 62 63 
63 
64 
65 
66 
67 
68 
69 70 71 
72 
74 
75 
76 77 78 
79 
BO 
83 
84 
85 85 86 
87 88 
89 
90 91 94 95 98 98 99 
Carlos rierre-Antoine !LB 6-3 245 so Arnaz Uattle QB 6-1 215 so Jamaar Taylor WR 6--0 200 FR A'Jani Sanders FS 5-10 197 SR David Givens SE 6-1 217 so Jarious Jackson QB &-1 228 SR Eric Chappell QB 6-4 226 SR Anthony Brannan OLB 5-10 215 SR Raki Nelson FL 5-11 180 SR Dwayne Francis DB 6--0 189 so Deveron Harper CB 5-11 187 SR Jay Johnson SE 6--0 191 SR Tony Flsher RB 6-2 225 so NickSetta KIP 6-0 160 FR James Caputo p 6-1 193 SR Dan Novakov QB &-3 210 FR Clifford Jefferson CB 5-9 182 so Glenn Earl DB 6-1 185 FR John Shingler TE &-2 252 SR Joey Hildbold P/K 5-11 175 FR Jeremy Juarez FB 5-11 250 JR Joey Getherall FL 5-7 176 JR Jim Sanson K 5-9 187 SR Gerome Sapp DB 6-Q 210 FR Javin Hunter FL 6-Q 185 so Julius Jones RB 5-11 185 FR Chris Yura RB/DB 5-11 195 FR Albery Poree DB 5-10 185 FR Tony Driver TB &-1 217 JR Lee Lafavette CB 5-9 1% SR Jason s.;'.kstrom DB 5-10 185 FR Donald Dykes ss 5-11 197 so Mike Grady FS 5-11 200 SR Justin Smith FS 5-11 190 JR Rockv Boiman OLB 6-4 245 so Terra'nce Howard TB 6-1 193 so Courtney Watson RB 6-2 205 FR Ronnie Nicks !LB &-0 240 SR David Miller K-P 5-11 190 so Tim O'Neill TB 5-5 163 so Tom Lopienski FB 6--1 259 so Ron Israel ss 6--0 205 JR Anthonv Denman !LB 6--2 230 IR Chris Leck ss 5-9 192 SR Jason Murray FB 6-1 260 JR Brendan Farrell ILB 5-9 232 SR Joe Ferrer OLB &-2 235 SR Shane Walton CB 5-11 185 so Grant Irons DE 6-5 272 JR Joey Goodspeed FB 6-Q 250 SR Andrew Dempsey TE/DE 6--2 252 JR Mike McNair FB 6-Q_ 242 so Johnathan Hebert SE 5-11 199 SR Cedric Hilliard DL 6--3 295 FR Tyreo Harrison !LB 6-2 235 SC Jeff Faine OL 6-3 310 FR Lamont Bryant DE 6-3 265 SR 
B.J. 
Scott C 6-3 285 SR Jim Jones 0G 6-3 307 SR Pat Ryan LB 6-3 220 FR John Crowther LS &-2 245 so Justin Thomas LB 6-2 230 FR Luigi Rao LB 5-10 208 JR Brendan O'Connor 0G &-2 292 JR Darrell Campbell DL 6-4 245 so Mike Zelenka FB 6-0 218 JR Casey Robin ITT 6-7 311 JR Brennan Curtin OL 6-8 295 FR Mike Tribe !LB 5-10 220 JR JohnMaandi C 6-3 300 SR Sean Milligan OL 6-4 285 FR JW Jordan C 6-1 277 JR Ryan Gillis OI. 6-3 315 FR Matt Brennan OT 6-6 305 SR Mike Gandy 0G 6-4 292 SR Jim Molinaro DI. f>-7 240 FR NeilAmbron 01. f>-7 275 i'R Ryan Scarola OL 6-5 303 so RobMowl 0G 6--5 295 SR Kurt Vallers OT 6-7 29Y JR John Teasdale OT 6--6 306 JR Brad Williams DT b-4 288 SR Jordan !!lack or b--6 313 so Sean Mahan or 6--4 285 so Gary Godsey TE &-7 255 FR Patrick Reynold• WR 5-ll 184 so John Owens TE 6-3 246 FR Antwon Jones m 6--2 281 SR Mark Rule WR/QB 6-2 218 SR Dan O'Leary TE 6-4 260 SR J ahari Holloway TE 6-4 260 JR Bobby Brown Fl. 6-2 193 SR Geraid Morgan TE 6-4 261 so Lance Lcgre(' DT 6-1 296 SR 

N. 
Vanllook-Drucker DE 6-2 271 SR Andr Wisne DT 6-3 270 JR Ryan Roberts DE 6-2 260 so Anthony Weaver DT 6--3 270 so Eric Glass DI 6-4 252 SR Jason Ching DE &-3 267 SR 





Frie.lay, August 27, I 999 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 5 
-
EYE ON THE ENEMY 
Hill, Fulton soar in JayhaWk passing attack 

. 
Location: Lawrence, Kan. . Terry Allen is the all-time 

. 
Enrollment: 26,297 winningest coach in Division


fast facts 
. Colors: Crimson and Blue 1-AA history with Northern Iowa. 
Courtesy of Kansas Sports lnfomalion Department

. Nickname: Jayhawks . This year marks the 100th annive­
ABOUT 
Termalne Fulton is one of the many receiving threats the 
. Conference: Big 12 rsary of the Jayhawks 1899 unde-
Jayhawks. wlll bring to ,Notre Dame Stadium Saturday for the
KANSAS "" .
. ,l-Stadium: f Memorial Stadium ,-. ,11t;••~~ated·season, _.J~r:"-; Eddie RQl}.irlson_,C~sslc~ 
•••-I 

"' Domino's Delivery 
•. i1ft 
-~ 
• :::iE N
o_

• cc. ® 271-0300 
Store Hours: Sunday -Thursday 
1 ;,_: 

Receive a FREE 
11 am-2am 
:'!' J Marker Board with 
Friday & Saturday 1 any purchase while 11 am-Jam 
supplies last 

. Irish secondary faces stiff test in home opener
against Big 12's 
finest receivers 
Ry MIKE CONNOLLY 
Associate Spam Fditur 
In a Big 12 Conforcnce dum­inatud by power running ganrns anrl option attacks, the Kansas .Jayhawks feature an anrial attack and a pair of lal­nn tcd receivers. 
Kansas coach Terry Allen has implemuntf1d a high-pow­ored passing game that ho said is finally fully imploment­cd. 
"We've got a b11tter grasp of the system," he told the Topeka Capital-Journal. "Maybe we've just gotten more people to believe. The installation is complete. Now we've just got to line-tune and Lhal comes from getting your head right." 
llarrison llill and Termainc Fulton are tlrn best in a talent­ed bunch of' Jayhawks' receivers. 
Thoy arc speedy wide-outs with good hands and big play potential who will test the Irish secondary that has bad previous trouble covering big play rnceivors. 
"That's probably my biggest concern right now: How good are our guys?" Irish coach Bob Davie said. "We played a lot of man-to-mun in camp. I want to see how these guys can cover." 
Tho Kansas running game will be relying on an inexperi­enced offensive line to open boles in a deep and talented Irish defensive line. 
II' the Jayhawks are unsuc­cessful on the ground, they will turn to the air and throw the ball even more than usual. 
Notre Dame secondary coach Lou West said the Irish don't need to make special adjustments for the Jayhawk receivers. 
"We are going to play our package," he said. "Our kids worked hard on our package in the spring for 15 days and then came back in two-a-day 
camps and did the same thing. We are going to play what we know best." 
Hill led Kansas with 28 catches last year while Fulton averaged 20.1 yards on 25 catches with three touch­downs. 
Senior captain Michael Chandler was 1998's third­leading receiver. He returns to the lineup after surviving a gunshot wound in the groin and an ankle injury, resulting from a break-in at his off­campus apartment. 
Redshirt freshman recciwr Anton Paige adds speed and a long-ball threat off the bench. 
West said that practices against the Irish receivers prepared the secondary for ihe Kansas offense. 
"Just facing our guys has been the best preparation," he said. "I think our guys are starting to mature well and do a good job running their routes. 
"They have pretty good speed so we are doing a lot of stuff against our guys. We are also doing a lot of long-ball stuff." 
page6 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, August 27, 1999 

-
Irish experts 

Brian Kessler sports editor 
NOTRE DAME 
PENN STATE 

FLORIDA STATE OHIO STATE 

Bill Hart sports associate 
NOTRE DAt\1E 

PENN STATE FLORIDA STATE OHIO STATE 

Mike Connolly sports associate 
NOTRE DAME 

PENN STATE FLORIDA STATE Omo STATE 

Tim Casey 
football writer 
NOTRE DAME ARIZONA 

FLORIDA STATE Omo STATE 
AROUND THE NATION 

Associated Press 
Get ready for a classic weekend of col­lege football. 
Three of the nation's top four teams help kick off the season on Saturday, with top-ranked Florida State opening at home against Louisiana Tech, and No. 4 Arizona at No. 3 Penn State in the Pigskin Classic. 
While the Seminoles are five-touch­down favorites over the Bulldogs, Arizona-Penn State shapes up as one of the biggest season-openers in years. 
Why jeopardize national title aspira­tions by playing such a big game so early? 
"Really, there are very few negatives," Penn State coach Joe Paterno insisted. "When you have a chance to prepare for a team as good as Arizona, you probably get a little more out of summer condi­tioning and preseason practice. 
"Win or lose, you are probably a better football team when you start the next week." 
Sounds reasonable, but the loser may find it a bit tougher to get back in the chase for the national championship. 
"We plan to go in there and play well," said Keith Smith, who alternates at quar­terback with Ortege Jenkins. 
"We want to come out with a win. We're not playing Hawaii, this is Penn State. And a lot of guys stayed here in the summer getting ready for it. We'll be ready." 
Arizona, winners of 16 of its last 17 games, boasts an offense that averaged 445 yards and 34.7 points last season. In addition to their topnotch quarterbacks, the Wildcats have Trung Canidate, the Pac-lO's leading rusher last'season with 1,220 yards. 
Penn State, meanwhile, counters with what could be the best defense in the nation, led by linebackers LaVar Arrington and Brandon Short, end Courtney Brown and cornerback David Macklin. 
"All the talk about Penn State's defense is definitely true," Canidate said. "They're frightening." 
Louisiana Tech at No. 1 Florida State 
Seminoles find out if QB Chris Weinke has fully recovered from his neck injury which forced him to miss the end of the 1998 season -including the fiesta Bowl against Tennessee. Weinke has arguably the best receiver in the country in Peter Warrick, who is one of the preseason favorites to win the Reisman. 
The Seminole defense is tough again this year. Led by defensive linemen Corey Simon, Florida State boasts one of the fastest defense in the country. 
for Louisiana Tech, Tim Rattay returns at quarterback looking to increase his eight school passing records. This year, however, he will be without the services of Troy Edwards who was selected in the first round of the NFL draft by the Pittsburgh Steelers. Rattay still has four quality receivers returning in James Jordan, Delwyn Daigre and Sean Cangelosi. 
No. 4 Arizona at No. 3 Penn State 
Arizona brings one of college football's most experienced and potent offenses to Penn State for Saturday's Pigskin Classic. 
The Wildcats' lightning-fast tailback, two big-play quarterbacks and break­away receiver will run smack into a 
• Nittany Lions defense that should be one of the best in the game. 
Something, obviously, has to give, when the fourth-ranked Wildcats and third-ranked Nittany Lions square off, and Arizona's players have no illusions that anything will be easy at Beaver Stadium, where Penn State hasn't lost a home opener since 1990. 
Arrington and Short bring "Linebacker U" back to Penn State in defensive coor­dinator Jerry Sandusky's final year in Happy Valley. 
Standing on the opposite side of the ball, the Wildcat quarterback tandem of Smith and Jenkins look to improve on the school record 444.9 yards per game set last year. 
No. 9 Ohio State vs. No. 12 Miami 
The Buckeves have lots of fresh faces, while the nitrricanes are primed for a strong start. 
The Buckeyes enter 1999 without All­American offensive lineman Rob Murphy who flunked out of school last spring. Murphy's academic failures comes hot­on-the-heels of former middle linebacker Andy Katzamoyer's academic troubles in the summer of 1998. OSU was once again rocked by academic scandal when six highly regarded freshman recruits failed to qualify for a football scholarship due to academic difficulties. The Buckeyes look to put their off the field problems behind them and a return to the top of college football. 
Miami's defense has been its downfall in recent seasons. Last year they finished last in the Big East Conference in pass defense and gave up 111 points in the final two regular-season games. 
Brian Kessler and Mike Connolly con­tributed to this report. 
irtt$ 
0 , 43 l,582 
i-1 1,537 t0-2 • 1;361 9-4 1,327 11-3 1,314 10·3 1,292 11~1 1,160 11-1 · 1,091 10-2 979 9-3 928 9•3 896 
9;3 829 
8°4 636 
·2 587 .3 ,J87 3 463 5 455 -5 .445 ~2 ,445 3 i441 
370 222 
. :108 
g vote$: BYU 93, 
St 72, "1ichigan SL3~,.Alr Svrali111j 2a, tguiij\'llle 201 

·.. . . LSU 13 . ahoma.$1; 9, Missout17, 
· North Carolina 6, Oregon 6, Southern Miss. 2, 
.· . Miam . io 1, NC State 1, TCU1, 
record points 
11'2 1,447 13·0 1,369
·• 1:2•1 
1i301 9-3 1,267 10-2 1,113 9-4 1,095 
10·3· ,t,094 1H 1,051 11-1 1.024 11•1 ....J102 
::111~2· /,;,: . 
. ·s:s 
9-3 
. '$:·~. 

Arizona vs Penn State.......... z2 p.m. ABC Miami vs Ohio State....8:30 p.m., ESPN2
around 
Kansas at Notre Dame....2:3Q p.m., NBC .N~ State_ at Texas.. :...,..8:30 p.m., fISPN2 LA Tech at Florida State... . 4 p.m., ESPN2
the dial 


Friday, August 27, l 999 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 7 

the inside edge 



records: o-o 
A.P. rank: No. 18 coach's poll: No. 18 
records: o-o 

A.P. rank: NR coach's poll: NR 

Record 

Notre Dame: o-o vs. Kansas: o-o EVEN 
quarterbacks: Jarious Jackson's mobility and accuracy give him the 
adriantage over Kansas' Zac Wegner. 
who enters 1999 as the 
10th best passer in Kansas history. 
running backs: Kansa.,;' Mitch Bowles and Danid Winbush power the Kansas running game lhal gained I,638 yards last season. 
receivers: The Jayhawks return one ofthe best receiving corps in the Big 1 2 with Termaine Fulton and f!arrison Jlill. The Irish feature lJeteran leadership in Bobby Brown and Joey c;etherall and young. taltmted playmaker Javin llunter. 
secondary: Irish seniors Deke Cooper, A 'Jani Sanders and Deveron Harper bring talented experience and tough­ness to the secon'daly. 
offensive line: The Irish 
hm•e more raw talent but lack experience. Only preseason All­American center John Merandi and guard Mike Gandy have sig­nificant playing time. 
defensive line: The Irish are bigger, stronger and quir:ker than the Jayhawks. Kansas returns six letterwin­ners from a year ago, but their rush defense was last in the Big I2. 
EVEN 

EVEN 

special teams: Joe  ..  
Garcia enters his third  
year as the Jayhawks  
kicker. Irish freshman  
Jottf! Mildbold has  
emel._qed as the starting  
purlter. Senior Irish  
place kicker Jim Sanson  
has been inconsistent  
throughout his career.  
coaching: Davie won  
every home game last  
season and compiled a  
9-3 overall record,  
winning eight straight  
in the middle ofthe  
season.  
intangibles: KU wants to  
emerge as a contender  
in the Rig I 2 andfinal­ 
ly reach a bowl game.  
ND is out to prove that  
last year's 9-3 record  
and near BCS bowl bid was rw fluke.  ..  



IRISH EXCHANGE 
Irish must learn 
to play like 
champions 
'6(i, '77, '88. With a $30,000 r.ducation, Notrn Dame studcnl'i prove they can count by 
11. 
Unf'ortunatdy, lhn Irish need a little more than a kindnrgarten clngnm to win a national championship this year. Ikforn Notrn Dame can nven consider a 1999 title, Irish lmad coad1 Bob Davie's squad mmds to lmtrn to play like a team worthy of' a top spot in tlrn polls. 
So, it's a good thing the school of hard knocks is in snssion for Davie and company. In this class­room the prnl'ossor will look to thn students for answers. 
The only rc•al tnst to gauge Notre Dame's rnlilwr will come on the gridiron. The lirst part. will come this Saturday against. the .layhawks. Irish fans can be surr. that Davie will bii rnady with pnn and paper in hand. 
Thn higgnst topic the Irish need to cover will Im prot1H:li11g the running game. Only center John Merandi and guard Mike Gandy have started previously for tlrn Irish on the line. Morandi is the only veteran -with 12 starl'i in I<J<J8 -among the front five. 
"Wait till noxt yoar" can oasily roplaco the thoughts of' a litlH for Notre Dame if tackles .Jordan Black and John Teasdale and guard .Jim .Jones don't land foct-lirst when thev take their first significant dive into Lhe trenches. 
The running game plan also is unclear. With Tony Fisher and Tony Driver running neck­aml-nnck f'or tlw starting tailback spot, Davie's plan is to wait and test them in the spotlight. 
Evnn as Fishnr senmed to emerge as the f'avorihi this week, the best bet is to give thP duo a 50-50 shot against Kansas to see who will carry lhn Irish for the rest of the season. 
lkfonsivPly, the Irish will take a more stable starting set on tlw fiHld, but look for players lowPr on the depth chart to make their move. 
The biggnst area of concern here will come l'rom thn rornerbacks, thinned by the season­long suspnnsion of' Brock Williams. 
With t.lmim questions unanswered, Davifl's f(J<)'J squad will square off against a Kansas team that defcatnd Colorado and lost to Texas /\&M by three points last season. But thfl Jayhawks will take backseat to the more prnssing position questions that the Irish face. 
Only with these questions settled and a win­ning arsenal on hand can Notre Dame tackle it<; biggest opponent to date: the demands for a 1999 National Championship. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 



Kansas should 
forget Notre 
Dame history 
Saturday, Kansas' football team should 
denounce Catholicism, forget about 
Touchdown Jesus, and for heaven's sake, 
not rent a video at Blockbuster. 
This is no time for "Hudy." 
Most Jayhawks have seen the feel-good, 
-
inspirational movie and many of them can .relateto the story. Some are walk-ons, a 
handful are overachievers, and Kansas is 
slated as such a longshot Saturday that 
landing someone on Mars by kickoff is 
looking more plausible in comparison. 
Kansas should forget Hudy and the past. 
This is not the same program Hockne 
ran. Bob Davie, Notre Dame's third-year 
coach, is far from legendary, and Notrn 
Dame simply isn't that good. Kansas can 
win this game, but only if it can forget his­
tory. 

Notre Dame loves to divulge itself as 
legacy. Its hernia-inducing mr.dia guide 
has. hundreds of' pages devoted to tlrn 
Notre Dame mystique. There are wonder­
ful biographies of' .Joe Montana, Haghib 
Ismail and Hoss Browner. The old names 
sound terrific, but how do Jarious Jackson, 
Tony Driver and Bobby Brown sound? 
About as threatening as California State­
Northridge or a bad 1980s rap group; lake 
your pick. 
Notre Dame hates to talk about tlrn pre­
sent and the f'uture. Currently, the Irish 
are very regular. They are average at most 
positions. 
Jackson, the team's quarterback and 
biggest threat to the Jayhawks, threw six 
interceptions last year. 
Its running back, Driver played defense 
mostly in 1998, and no cajoling from Davie 
about the Gipper will turn their receivers 
into threats. 
Notre Dame loves to talk about '66, ·77 
and '88, past national championship years. 
Not much is being said about 1999 because 
Irish eyes can sp,e the Pc1pe might have bol­
ter moves than most returning Irish. 
There is no pressure laid on Kansas. 
The Jayhawks are expected to be 
thumped, but happily so because thfl 
school is making a large profit f'rom play­
ing in the Eddie Hobinson Classic. Notre 
Dame's fans can thus carry the arrogance 
that their stadium is a shrine nobody can 
resist visiting. 
Terry Allen won't be watching "Hudy." 
The only video Allen's team will be watch­
ing is of the current Irish, who are nothing 
like the past. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


.. 
t""tI,HE 

Notre Dame vs. Kansas vnSERVER Friday, August 27, 1999 


-
photos by JOHN DAILY 
A new 4-3 defensive alignment and a new offensive coordinator will give the Irish a different look in 1999. Yet, even with all the changes, Notre Dame hopes the winning tradition of Irish football will continue into the next century. The Kansas Jayhawks will provide Notre Dame with its first test of the new schemes in the Eddie Robinson Classic on Saturday in Notre Dame Stadium. 
Deveron Harper is one of three seniors in the Irish secondary . 
... 







