
Ready for Valentine's Day? 
Homophobia on Campus 

Thursday
¦ Check out gn:at gift ideas and learn 
¦ Mary Margaret Nussbaum explores how people 

wherher Valcmine's Dav is a contrived 
arrive at homophobia and bigotry.

holiday. . 
FEBRUARY 11, 
Scene• 12~13 
Viewpoint• 11 

1999 
THE 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 87 WWW. N D.EDU/-OBSERVER 
¦ 


Faculty criticize ND for misleading campus 

Senate expresses indignance toward Board ofFellows secrecy on non-discrimination clause 
lly DEREK BETCIIER 
}\,.\1,r.mt Ne.•,\'\ Ltlirrn 
llis11ppoi11t1·d 1>111 11111 d1•mohiliz<'d. tl11• Faculty Snnate Hpprnvc•rl 11 strnng r<'sol11tio11 rritiral of 1•w11ts 1m'cPding last Friday's a111111111H'<'ll1Plll lhal Notn• IJamP will not ri-vise its no11-disrri111i11alio11 clausp lo i11rluck s1\x11al oriPnt.ation. 
A majorily ol' Iii,· sPnalP ron1·l11ill'd tlw aclml11istralio11 rnislPrl tlw 1·a111p11s i11l11 wailing l"or a dausP dPcision from 
I111• Hoa rd of Trustl'l'S on F<'li. :i. \1lw11. llw ;11·111al dPt1•r111i11atio11 was mad!' hv tl11• Board ol" h•llows 111111"1' ·11ia11 two 111011t.l1s 1•nrli1•r. 
"W,•'r<' disHppointPd hul not so dis;ipp11inll'd \\'I'll giv<' up," 1'a,·11ltv l'hairman Mil'haPI llPtJ.,fs;·n said al'll'r \\'c•drwsdav night's llll'<'ling. "ll's mort' lha;1 disappoinling -this is morally s1•rio11s. W1• w1•11I. through a lot 111' l'Hl"I' and work to makP a strong 1·asl' !only to hav<' thn ri•c·o 1111111' ncl alio11 n•jPrtPcl. I" 
Tlw s<'nat11 stoppnd short. of' 1·oi11IPmning tlw ar.tion. but did lalwl ii. 11nl'lhiral, a movl' Sl'tHl· tors favorl'd in a 27-:i vol!', with onP ahslt' n lion. 
Unv11risty to maintain hopo lllw rlaus1' would hn rPvisP-d,I" said Fatlrnr !Ur.hard McBrien. "They allownd studnnts to f'ast. rallies to be lwld, argumnnts to bn airncl in thn newpaper. TIH'Y allowed the campus to think tlw dncsion was still in waiting. 
"Thn Board of Fellows should be censurnd for that. I rogard it as unethical. Unnf.hical." co11tintrnd McBricn, n prol'c~ssor of theology. "Tim f'aliurn to brnak secrecy f'or ovnr two months was unjustifiabln." 
Although the s1\111ttc's rnsolution stopped short or cnnsuring tlw fnt­lows, most nwmlwrs agreed that 
'THE THING THAT BOTHERED ME MOST WAS NOT THAT THE FEI.­LOWS MADE A DECISION THAT WAS flNAL, BUT THEY ALtOWED THE UNIVERSITY 'JlO MAINTAIN HOPE [THE 
CLAUSE WOULD BE REVISED].' 
f,'.,t'f7fl:'I! RtCffMW Mr.BWEN Puon:SSOI/ OF Ttmowr;r 
"Bl' it llwrPforl' rnsolvncl that both llw l>nc. I action or the Hoard of' Fellows and its subsequent dncision not to a1111ou1u•p that artion to t.lw Univnrsity community be n•jl'('l<'d as violations of those iclnal and Plhical rPquire­lllPllls whid1 an• lo govPrn our lifn as an intellnctual cnm­munilv," tlrn tnxl rl'ads. 
Th,:S(ina ti• PXpr1•ss1•d ind ignanrP toward tlw UniVl'rsity's d1•1·isio11 not l.o pnblidzl' tl1P Bnard of' FPllows· decision. which Pfft'1'.li\'PIV doonw1I nny rlmrn•p of rlause rnvision. 
"'Tl11• thing 11;.it i>11tlH•r1•d 'nm mosl was not. that till' l'Pl­lo\\'s mrnll' a dl'rision that was final. hut till'y allmvf'ci the McBrinn's dissatisfac­tion was justiliml. and tlll'V warranted a ms· olui.ion of' criticism. 
Aft<'r tlw grnal.<'r snnatn approvPd rnso­lII tio ns supporting c:lausB rnvisions early last fall. individual faculty lrnl1>ed stoward tlw issue through the UnivPrsity's Acadomil: Council. the highnst 
levnl whern the issue had ever benn dis­cussed officially. 
The mattnr thnn advanced to the 12· mombcr Board of 
Fellows before progressing to the Board of' Trustees where a final decision was expectnd. 
AftPr questioning Provost Nathan !latch at Weclnnsday night's senate mncting, many f'aculty solidified understanding that llrn actual deci­sion not to revise thP-clfrusn was madn two months narlier by the fol­lows. 
see CLAUSE/ page 6 
The Observer/Beth Mayer 
Racial interaction in the dining hall, among other places on campus, often occurs on a limited basis at Saint Mary's, where the majority ot students are Caucasian. Maya Singletary (left), Kimmie Martin (center) and Samara Hussain talk over dinner. 
The Observer/Michelle Keefe 
Provost Nathan Hatch addressed the Faculty Senate Wednesday night and fielded questions regarding the non-discrimination clause. 
Provost names academic task force, faces questions on clause 
By DEREK BETCHER 
Assistant News Editor 
In the aftermath of the University's decision to reject Big Ten membership, provost Nathan Hatch outlined a plan for Notre Dame to rc,Hwaluato its academic direction during his annual report to the Faculty Senate Wednesday night. 
Heacting to a Monday recommendation from presidPnt see PROVOST I page 4 
Race relations at SMC, ND examined 
By SARAH MAGNESS 
News Writer 
When Saint Mary's l'rnsh· man Frin Callahan walks into the dining hall, slrn looks f'or familiar fac<,s and f'rinnds. Like manv otlwr slmknts al Saint Mary's, her table cmcom­passes a homogeneous group of' Caucasian worn on. 
With February as Black History Month, students hear about influnntial African Americans, civil rights and diversity. The audible rellnc­tions ci tlrn actions of NP!son Mandela. Martin l.uthnr King .Ir. and Bosa Parks have cncouragnd Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students like Callahan to rcexami1rn how Saint Mary's and Notrn Dame students interact racially. 
"The fact that there am so many Caucasians versus any otlw.r minority makPs intPrac·­tion diflirul!.,',. Callalu;n said. 
Tlwrf' is not. Pnough rarial int.erar.t.ion orcu1-ri11g because tlw Coil<'g<' has not and will not makn it a priority, accord­ing to Tysus .Jackson. a Saini Mary's sc·nior and prnsicl1·nl ol' Sistnri; of' N(1fortiti. 
Iris Outlaw, lwad of thf' Ollicn of' Multicultural Sturlcml. Affairs at Notn1 llanrn, said that tlrn rnsponsihility ol' cross-racial intnraction rnsts on th1) institution. Minoritv studnnts <'annot go all l"ou;· yt1ai·s without it1LPracting with Caucasian studnnts, hut Caucasian studnnts may nnvnr intnract dirnctly with a minori· ty, sho said. 
Maria Oropeza, lwad of' thn Office of Multicultural Affairs at. Saint Mary's, places 
see RACE / page 6 
page 2 The Observer• INSIDE. Thursday, February 11, 1999 



Beware of Orange Women 
One of my friends f'rom high school called tht> other day, all the way from California. We primarily discussed the "good old days,'' buL before Loo long Urn conversation drifted 
into familiar tones,  
much like any other by  · Dustin Ferrell  
two college men.  As,isram Viewpoint  
"So," my friend can­ Edic01  
didly asked, "how arc  
the wom1•11 (JUI there''"  

I had to pause for one moment, not want­ing to characterize women in any demean­ing fashion of course. and attempted to give him his answer. I told him the usual, about how sweet and humble the majority of women Imm are, buL also about the bitter ones who hate Saint Mary's women because they go to Saint Mary's. Ile got a kick out of the rivalry, and sn,id that Notre Dame men were lucky. 
The conversation was fairly insignificant in and of itself, but it reminded me of the many different "types" of people I encounter out here, men and women alike. The majority of students ,here arcn't too terribly different from those at my high school. just richer. But one phenomenon that stuck out in my mind while discussing women was the multitude of "orange women" who appear around spring break. 
While my terminnlogy requires further explanation, I have no doubt in my mind that mnst of you understand what I'm talk­ing about. These ladies spend countless hours in tanning booths during the winter months, roasting their formerly pigment­impairnd bodies. This effort pays off, as they come out leathery and orange. Most of them end up looking like the characters from some Nickelodeon show. although I doubt they intended such an effect. 
The clincher in all of this is that these ladies pay good money, time and time again, to pretend they're in Southern California instead of South Bend in February. I don't have the heart to tell them that California tans are more of the golden variety. And, presumably, neither do my fellow classmates. All of this effort put forth just to prnpare for spring break. But amongst a sea of other pale women who have rnfrained from such unnatural abuse to their bodies, these ladies will stick out. Do you suppose college students around the 
U.S. will have any difficulty guessing which women go to school in the Midwest? 
I don't wish to alienate anyone (any more than I alreadv have) but rather to raise awareness fo~ these poor souls who need­lessly spend their money on such an obvi­ous potential for ridicule. I can't quite fig­ure out what group of people decided that this was n, good way to spend allowance, or who initiallv decided that skin the color of an "oompa ·1oompa" was a desirable trait to have on break. 
Whatever the motivation, these students provide an easy target, and I thank them for an otherwise frivolous \-vaste or money. Fnr those of you deciding whether or not to get a jump start on tanning, I'd advise you to hold off. After all, a mediocre tan beats bright orange any day. 
ThP r,imm; Pxpressed in lhe Inside Cofumn are lhos<' of lhe author and not necessarily those of The Obscn•cr. 
¦ TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Scene  
Colleen McCarthy  Sarah Dvlag  
Tom Enright  Kristi Klitsch  
Matt Snmh  Graphics  
Sports  Cristin Manar:·  
Brian Kessler  Production  
Viewpoint  Kerry Smith  
Eddie Ll11II  Lab Tech  
Monica Gari.a  

l he Obmvor <USPS 599 2-4000) ,, publi,hcd Mo11day rhrough Fridav exccpr during c-,::am ;md v:1c;1tion pi.:riods. Tiu~ Oh-.ervcr is a member of rht Associ;tted Pres, .. All repr(lductit,n tights are reserved 



utside the Dome 
Cnmpiled from U-Wire reports 

Deans support law schools' criticism of magazine ratings 
NEW HAVEN, Conn. 
One hundred Pight deans have signed a letter debunking U.S. News· rankings, bul. given the magazine's methodology and potential appli­cants' divergent interests, their con­cern may be misplaced. 
Earlier this month Yale Law School Dean Anthony Kronman lent his sig­n atu rP to "A Dean's Letter lo Applicants" deriding the rankings. The letter will hit the mailboxes of approximately 70,000 prospective law students nationwide early next month. 
The mass mailing represents an effort by the majority of lhe 181 American Bar Association approved law schools ranked in U.S. News and World Report to undermine the influ­ence or that magazine's rankings. 
But the U.S. News ol'liccr responsi­ble for compiling the data said the rankings are a valuable se. rvicc to its readers rather than -in Kronman·s words -a piece of "misleading pre­cision." 


"We've always maintained that no system of rankings is perfoct," said !\my Graham, U.S. News' director of data research. 
While thP d11ans' letter alleged the rankings did not consider first-year class size or I.he extent of each school's al.umni network. (iraham said there is no source for much of the data the dean's would like taken into account. 
All of tho magazine's information conrns dirnctly from th,~ schools themselves, she said, and over 80 percent of" llrn schools U.S. Nnws ask consistently provide tho desirer! sta­tistics. 
According to the U.S. Nows Wob site, the law school ranking nrnthod­ology uses four critnria: roputaiion (40 pcrccntl, sr,lrictivity (2:> p<wcnnt), placement success (20 pnrcrrnt), and faculty resources (15 percent). 
Kronman, whose school has topped Urn list each year of his deanship, attributed Yaln's success in tlrn rank­ings to this specific criteria. 
Last year, U.S. News ranked Yalr. first in selectivity, noting its 7. I pr,r­cen t acceptance rate in 1997. Stanford's 12.:{ percent acceptancB rate was tlrn nnxt lowest. Indubitably, thn YLS's small-admiltcd class helped them in this circum­stance. 
¦ PEt\l!\ISYLVAI\UA STATE UN!VERSH"Y Tuition rising faster than inflation 
STATE COLLEGE, Penn. 
The average national cost of tuition continues to increase at double the rate of inflation, causing many problems for graduating students. Penn State's 1997 and 1998 tuition increases were a low 3. 7 percent compared to the average national increases of 5 and 4 percent for the same years. For the same years, inflation in the United States was 1.6 percent and 2.9 percent, respec­tively. Penn State's lower rate of increase, however, can be deceiving. The university's average tuition costs are higher than other national public universities -the Penn State increase this year was $225 while the national average was $132. The high cost may pose a prnblem for graduates because most loaning institutions give them only 10 years to pay off their loans. Of about 290,000 matured loans in 1997, 141,000 were given an extension or smaller payments, 31,000 were deferred and 120,000 had payments made. 
¦ WASHINGTON UN!VFRS!TY 

Med school tests patient info cards 
ST. LOUIS, Mo. 
Washington University Medical School researchers 
and Site-C, a St. Louis based lnternei developer, are 
testing a personal medical records card that would 
grant doctors easier access to patients' medical records. 
The card. which contains a microchip, would make 
medical records accessible to any medical professional 
who has an Internet connection, the patient's card, a 
specialized card reader, and the patients personal iden­
tification number (PIN). "The idea to put [a card] to use 
for medical purposes is very recent, in the past few 
years," said Gilad A. Gross, director of obstetrics at 
Barnes Jewish Hospital and head of the project. The 
card will contain all of the patient's medical records, 
which would avoid repeated tests (for reasons such as 
blood type) and would speed up medical records access 
for doctors treating patients on an emergency or rush 
basis. 

¦ UNIVERSITY OF !LUNO!S Student pleads guilty to library theft 
CII/\MP/\IGN, Ill. 

Those with overdue library books might wanl to hmrn from the lesson of Sean Harte. !\l'tcr a search warrant, a warrant for his arrest, 43 days in jail and numnrous phone calls from librarians, Harte still did not return his ovnrdue University library books. Harte began borrowing the books two years ago, and soon he had amassed 174 books ­books he kept in cardboard boxes at his homn. i\11 told. thl) books had an estimated value of $10,000. Eventually, aftnr charges of theft were brought against him, police rncovered the books. Harte pleaded guilty Tuesday to charges of" mis­demeanor theft. As part of his plna, llartn must undnrgo psychological evaluation. He is also banned from thn University ca,.rnpus. Harte spnnt 43 days in Champaign County Jail for failing to appear in court. Though f'ailurn to return library books might senm likn a minor offense, Harte's transgression is no laughing matt<)r, according to officials. 
¦ CREIGHTON lfonvrnsnv Researchers test cancer vaccine 
OMAHA, Neb. 

Creighton University is one of' live ccmters in the country to test a vaccine against a virus that is one of the most com­mon causes of cervical cancer. Dr. Christoplrnr llarrison, professor of podiatries and medical microbiology and immunology, is sArving as the principle investigator of' the human papilloma virus (IIPV) typ1~ 1<) study. "Cervical can­cer is amongst thn top three or four cancer dnaths in tlrn United Statns," Harrison said. Mndical research has shown that women who am infocted with llPV typfl 16 -as well as other HPV types -have a tendency lo devdop cervical cancer. Type 16 is the most common form of IIPV, at:count­ing for two-thirds of all cases, Harrison said. tr tlrn vaccinn is elTective, he said, "instnad of trnal.ing cancer, you prnvent cancer." Harrison said one in live peopln have molecular evidence of having IIPV. Women usually acquire\ thn virus in their teens and 20s. he said. Harrison said thn study must have 120 women by July. · 
¦ Sourn Brno WEATHER ¦ NATIONAL WEATH£R 
5 Day South Rend Forecast 

Tlle AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Thursday, Feb. 11. 
Accu\Vemhcr°') forec1-1st for Uaytime conditions anJ high temperatures 
40s Unes separate high temperature zones tor the day. 
H L 
Thursday Friday Q 32 15 Saturday ~28 18 

1

~ sos 
FRONTS: 
-,305 " 3os 
....-,,..



Sunday ~38 27 
....-.. 

O 1999 AccuWf'ather, Inc. GOLD WARM STATIONARY

-----------------------1 

Monday q"'' '' 4··4 27 

High Low Showers Aain T-storms Flurne• Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy
'' 


Via A$Sceil11ed Pres$ 

Atlanta 72 53 Columbus 64 Baltimore 62 33 Dallas 65 
Boston 48 28 Denver 34 Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow /co sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 

Q,Q,~q~Q 1)-~ u 
Chicago 54 51 Honolulu 83 
Via Assoc1afmi Press Graphi'csNet 
45  Indianapolis  61  51  
60  Los Angeles 67  46  
16  Miami  80  68  
67  New York  53  34  


Thursday, Fehruary 11, 1999 The Observer. CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Symposium to look 
at entrepreneurship 
Speci.ol 10 The Ohscr.·er 
l•:111rnprt\llPUrial nxpnrts in husirmss. hanking and 1Hhwation will partiripatl' in a symposi11111 titl1!d "Crnati11g Shar·Pholdnr Val111) i11 Nww and l•:m1•rgi1q.( ll11si1wss1•s" l'rom 'J 11.111. to :i 
p.111. loclay at Notr1• llum«•'s Co liq~«' 111' ll11sin1•ss ;\d111i11istralio11. 
Spo11sor1•d by th1\ rollPg<''s 1ww (;igol CP11tn for l·:11lrPprcrwurial Stll(lins, tlw symposium will h11 lu•ld in .lonlan /\uditnriu111. 
llw sy111posiu111 will lH•giu wilh r<'llliil'ks Oil I.hi' fllllll"(' or till' <;igol c,•nlnr l'rom Cary Cigot, ..;p11i11r vicn pr,·sicknt f'or Visio C()rporation and Lill' No!.rP l>anw ah1J11llllS whos,• $2-rnillion gil'I mrnll' lilt' l'l'llll'r possibll'. Otl1t•r spPa\..,.rs and lopil's will inrlud,·: 
• 11::lO ii.Ill. -Snllt Oki, l'o1111dPr of' :\li1Tosol't's i11tN1w­l ional divisio11, on "H1·ing a 
I il'l'Jinw F11tr<'pn°11<'ur." 
• I 0: I:; a.111. Moira Slrn11ailan, prc>sid(•l11. ancl rhir-1' l'Xl'rt1li\'P ollirl'r of' BrnindarH'P, 011 "llraind,111,·p: llnlping llusi111°ss1·s Build llusi111•ss." 
• 11 n.111. Hir·h<1rd Iil'1·k111a1111, rhair and l'hiPf' 1•x1•1·­111iv<' ofTirPr nl' Uni lf'd Stal <'s 1-'ill<'r Cor11orati11n, 1111 "L111il1•d Slal1•s 1-ill1•r Corporation: 1:rom Startup lo Fortune :iOO." 
• Noon -/\lfrnd Osborne, diroctor of tho Prico Ccmtr.r of FnlrPpnmnurial Studins al. UCLA; .lanll's Davis, assodatn professor of nrnnagPmPnt and acadPmic dir<wtor of' tlw Cigot c:,~ntl'r; uncl TP1Ti Willny. prnsirlrn1l ol' /\BCI I Dnwlopmcnt at t.lw Uniwrsity of' Chi1'.ago, on "llow Univnrsitins I!Pip Launch NPw Busirwssns to CrPatn Shan\lwld<'r Valli<'." 
• 2; I ;i p.111. -Clark1: Keough, dirnrtor of' i\!11111 & Company, and Christoplwr Murphy, 111, 1·hair am! d1inl' 11xPrt1Livn ollicnr of' Ist Sourrn Bank, 011 "What Vt'nturn Capilalists am Snoking-in a Small Busi11Pss Plan." 
• :-i::w J) Ill. -Conf'Pl'(1ll('P spciahrs will participat<' in it pand discussion. 
1-'ound1•d last yPar, llw Gig1,t l'<'lllf'r providPs NolrP DamP st11­d1\11ls with skills that will ena.blP llll'm, as l'il.hl'r individual or cllr­poratf' Pllll'Pfll'l'IWlll'S, to CllllVPrt id11as into markl't poi-;sibilitins. 
Tlw rurrirnlum includes two c01•p roursPs. an Pi<'{'tiVP, and tlw dPvnlopnwnl of businnss plans. .1\11 i111porta11t co111po11c11l of' Llw c<•11t1•r is tlw crnat.ion <ll' a Vl'n­tun• capital fun that will providn invostnwnl. for sP!Pctnd start-up projPcts dnv11lop1•cl in 1111' two con• cours11s. 
Express yourself. Use Observer classifieds. 



Majority of ND frosh pro-life 
KYLE ANDREWS 
Nt:ws Writer 

An annual American Council on Education survey shows that Nntro Damo freshmen are at the forefront of a national increase in opposition lo abor­tion rights. 
According to tho 33rd annu­al survey, conducted by the Higlwr Eduration Research Institute at the Univorsity of California, Los J\ngeles, 69 pNcenl of' NotrP Dnme fr1ish­mon and 49 percent ol' l'resh• men nationwide arc against legalized aborl ions. Those numbers n!prescnt increases or 15 and 14 percentage points, respectivcly, sinell rar­liAr in the decade. The surwy was basr.d on tho responsos of 27:i,81 I full-time f'rnshmrn at 46<) s<"hools. 
Tho ND/SMC Bight to Life organization has boon witness to tlrn incr11ase in pro-life activism. 
"I've ddlnitely seen the club Iisl more activn this year," said Samantha Snydl!r, the organization's co-president. "We rncnntly brought over 200 students to thH march in Washington, as compared to a2 last year." 
The national Hight-to-Life march has increasnd in num­ber on a national level also; this year marked the 25th annivorsary of' the Ron v. \IVado decision. which caused greater attendance at the annual dmnonstration, 
"It is wonderful to soc stu­dents so excited about this issue," said Snyder. 
Right to Life now boasts 
over 500 members who take part in three main areas of pro-life activism: prayer, ser­vice and education. The group encourages its members to participate in adoration prayer s1~rvices and to volun­teer at the Women's Caro Center and Hospice. 
Pro-life education has takM the form or debate workshops and gwist speakers. 
'OUR GOAL IS TO MAKE 
STIJDENTS THINK ABOUT THEIR OWN POSI· TIONS.' 
SA!v/ANTHA SNYDJ::J1 CO·PIWSWliNT OF ND/SMC RIGl/T TO LI/ll;' 
"Our goal is lo make st.u­donts tl1ink about thoir own positions," said Snyder. Hight to L.il'e tries to incorporate a vory broad view of' the pro-lil'o mission by emphasizing oppo­sition to the death penalty as part of thoir position. According to the survey, 44 percent of Notre Dame fresh­m1111 oppose the d11ath penalty, compared to 2:{ percent nationwide. 
The American Council on Education survey also dealt with other areas that reflect the political and social views of the nation's freshmrm. 
Notre Dame freshmen were also at the leading edge of a 
trond away from casual sox. Just 19 percent agreed to the statement, "tr two people real­ly like each other, it's all right for them to have sex 1w011 if they've known each otlwr for a vory short timo," Forty per­cent of freshmen nationwide agreed, marking a record low at. about 10 p<Wc,mt.agn points less than a docade ago. 
Notre Dame l'rr.shnll'n provod to ho more polit.ically conservative as well, with :{8 pPrcr.nt classifying themselves as consfirvative, companid with 20 pnrcont nationally. 
Libornls constituted 18 prr­cent of the Nott·o Dame fresh­man population and 24 per­cent of the national l'rnslrnrnn. Moderates held the majority in both Notrn Damn and tlw nation. 
Notre Dnnw l'rrshmen also spent much morn tim,i on 1.hnir studins in high srhnol than tlwir peurs, with 7 4 pnr­cent reporting that. thPy spPnt morn than six hours a w1wk on homework comp:ired to a national rncord low of :rn p<1r­cent. • 
Ninety-one p1\rcent of Notr11 Dame frf'shmen expect to earn an advanced degrPP, compared with <,2 pnrc1~nt of their counterparts nationally. 
Alcohol consumption provml lo bn on,~ ol' tlrn fow ari~as in which Notrn Damp freshnrnn are on par with 11thers nation­ally. Notre Dame-? f'rPshmen 
were conservative in other areas, though, with far ft-wer f'reshmnn smoking or suppor•t.­ing the legalization of' mari­juana than the national aver­age. 
THE BSE  
 is now accepting applications for the following positions on the 1999-2000 General Board  
AD DESIGN MANAGER  

Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge of QuarkXpress, Aldus Freehand and Adobe Photoshop. The Ad Design Manager oversees a staff of design­ers, works closely with advertising and marketing departments and is responsible for the design and layout of advertisements. 
SYSTEMS MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience and knowledge of computer networking. The Systems Manager maintains and updates the Macintosh network and printers and is responsible for training the entire Observer staff on the use of the system. 
CONTROLLER Applicant must be a sophomore or junior majoring in accounting or finance at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. The Controller is responsible for preparing The Observer's operat­ing hudget and taxes, accounts payable, cost-tracking and other transaction duties. 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR Applic111t 11111st be familiar with building and maintaining a World \X1idt· Web site. The Web Administrator is responsible for working with the editorial departments of The Ohserver in order to update and ,irlhive the co11tent of the site each day. The Web Administrator also must be able to expand the capabilities of the site. 
GRAPHICS EDITOR 

Applicants should have solid Macintosh expt'fience and a working knowledge of Free Hand and/or Adobe Illustrator. The Graphics Editor oversees a staff of designers and must work closely with News, Sports and Scene to match top-quality graphics with the content of each day's newspaper. 
An_y fit!l-tirne undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's is encouraged to ttpply. Notify Michelle Krupa as soon as possible ifyou intend to apply. A three-page statement ofintent and a resume are requiredfor tipplication. For questions about the tipplication process or for more information about 1my position, call The Observer at 631-4542 or 631-5323. 



Thursday, February 11, 1999

page4 The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS 

Why Stake Your Career on Just Any Company? 
Your accomplishments in school have from the start, you'll have the some of America's "best places everything to do with talent and opportunity to make key contributions to work" surveys. determination. At CIGNA, we invite right away. We also understand that 
Learn more about what makes 
you to apply those some qualities at you want to keep growing in your up CIGNA's Business of Caringone of the top brands in the financial career. Our professional development brand. Stop by at our upcoming
services industry. and rotation programs let you information session. 
minded graduates from all major "CIGNA' refers to CIGNA Corporation and/or one or more of its subsidiaries. Most employees oie employed by 
)f. explore various job options andWe're looking for bright, career 
areas of interest. We're an equal opportunity employer. M/f/DI'/. 
areas to enjoy the ample There's more. We're also just as 
subsidiaries of CIGN~ Corporation, which provide insurance
challenges and rewards we interested in helping you reach your and related products. offer. Because we focus on personal goals. That's probably why developing our future leaders we continue to earn high marks from 
------------------....1•·hii-illitfi·ttiM
II® 
"Where those two come in the College of Art and together is complicated," Letters, and it's one that


Provost 
Hatch reiterated. deserves consideration." 
Before responding to the Ilatch added that goals and
continued [rom page 1 
senate's specific questions, initiatives in the Coilege of Hatch detailed the responsibil­Business Administration wereFather Edward Malloy, Hatch ities for the eight task forces sufficicmtly laid out to obviatecalled for the crnation of eight 
he announcfld. a task force for that school.
task forces to evaluate specific First, he called for a task Fourth. Batch wants a task
sections of the University's 
force on consortia! relations to force to investigate increasingacademics. 
examirrn how Notre Dame can Notre Dame's research fund­
"llow can we find moni 
reach out for academic part-ing, which has risnn recently.
strategic ways to channel our 
ncrs. but only slowly. 

(\11('.rgi<~s?" llatch asked thn 
lie admitl()d this was an ThesP efforts would coordi­
faculty audience. 
nspecially fertile area for n atf' with work done by a
Me m b 11 rs of tl11· Pr o v o st 's 
Washington, T).C., lobbying
planning in the wake of the

Council, ondowPd chairhold­
University's decision not to firm the University has recent­ors and olito farultv will staff join the Big Ten and its acade­ly retained.
tlrnse task forces, i"latch said. 
mic consortia, the CIC. Notre Fifth, I-latch called l'or a task111) hopos tho groups will con­Dame should look to otlrnr top force on curricular innovation.
solidate their findings into a 
"We have not done much
rnport tltat can he presented in recent years to exploreto Malloy by May or early new curricular strategics,"
su111mer. 
'WE'RE NOT PART OF THE llatch admitted.

In addition to outlining his 
i\ task force on diversity"
response to Malloy's requp,st. CULTURE OF THE IVY llatch presented answers to LEAGUE OR EVEN THE OTHER TOP and community will be
formed to explore Notre
questions submitted earlier by PRIVATE SCHOOLS ... THAT'S THE Dame's ongoing challengesFaculty Senate members. Koy in those areas. llatch said.
questions dealt with the con­
[ACADEMIC] WORLD TO WHICH 

"Notre Dame continues
trovorsia I probation placed on 
WE ASPIRE.' to struggle to build a com­the Women's Resource Cent()r munity that rnsembles thoclub f'or providing abortion lit­
diverse mosair. of our
()ra tu rP and with Notrn 
NATHAN HATCH nation," he said.

Dame's decision nol lo revise 
NOTRJ, DAME PROVOST The last two task forces
ils non-discrimination clause. 
w i11 study are as wlrnrn
Unlike his description of' the 
Notre Dame alrnady has
task forces, the provost left privatp, schools like Duke and excellence, areas where it
important points of these 
Hice, univeristies in Indiana wants to maintain andquestions unanswered. 
and neighbors in Chicago, advance its strength, llatch
All student clubs at Notre Dame report to tlw Office of Jlatch said. said. 
Second, he called for a task One task force will exploreStudent Activities. a jurisdic­force on strategic direction in tho study of ethics and
tional arrangnnwnt that has sr.ience and engineering to resources devoted to that
led many in th<~ senate to 
coordinate the colleges' field. The eighth and final task
question whether those 
progress in today's dynamic force will focus on Catholicgroups enjoy academic free­
fields. Hatch listed biotcch int()lloctual life. 

doms consistent with the edu­
research, information tech­Forming thesn taks forces toca ti ona I mission of the nologies, advanced material study special arnas of acade­
University. 
and environmental studies as mic life will atd Notre Dame in
"Notre Dame has long 
progressing on current issuesimportant area.
uphold principlos of academic 
A corresponding task force and ongoing challenges facing
freedom for its faculty," Hatch for the College of Arts and tlrn nation's elite universities,said. 
Letters would explore ways to a fidd of inquiry where Notre"What about studt1nts'?" pro­
coordinate the school's Dame sometimes finds itselffo sso r of' theology Greg 
departments, institutions and isolated.

Sterling asked. 
"We're not part of the cul­
collective resources. "Ilow can we pool resources ture of tho Ivy League or even "That's complicated," Hatch 
replied. 
lo make synergy'?" Hatch the other top private schools."
He explained that in spiritu­
asked. "It's a complicated Hatch said. "That's the [acad­
al lifo the church rules while relatil)nship (between majors. emic I world to which wein academic life the principle 
institutes and concentrations) aspire."

of frPedom governs. 


Provost's New Task Eorces 
:·i/¼.,k. 

1. 
Task force on consortia} relations. 

2. 
Task force on science & engineering direction 

3. 
Task force onArts and Letters resources. 

4. 
Task foreyonincreasing research funding. 

5. 
Task force oncurricular innovations. 

6. 
Task tore~ on,diversity and community. 

7. 
Task torce on ethics. K Taskforce on Catholic intellectual lite. 


The Observer/Cristin Manary 

PEACE CORPS VISITS 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
INFORMATION MEETING 
Center for Social Concerns Tuesday, February 16, 6:00 p.m. 

FIRESIDE CHAT 
LaFortune, Notre Dame Room Wednesday, February 17, 1:00 p.m. 

INFORMATION TABLE 
Hesburgh Library Lobby Tuesday, February 16 9:00 a.m. -3:30 p.m. 
~ 

(800) 424-8580 www.peacecorps.gov 
CIGNA A Business o{Caring.  Date: Time: Place:  February II, 1999 7:00 • 9:00 pm Morris Inn, Notre Dame Room  
For more information visit us on the Web: www.cigna.com  

u 


Thursday, February 11. 1999 COMPILED FNOM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
¦ RH.;s Dartmouth ends frat system 
IIJ\NOVEH, N.11. 
llart111outl1 Coll,·g«·. th1\ school thal inspir1•d "Animal ll011s1\," plans to put an Pnd lo si11glP-s1,x f'rat.Prniti1,s and sororitns to foslPr mor,i "rPspPcLful r,dations" i>PlwP1•11 th,· S('Xl'S llartmout.h stud,·nts wPn· i11 an 11pr1Jar WPd1wsclay ovl'r tlH~ plan. "This was likl' a bomh," said Misha HosofT, 2:1, rnsh ('!\airman al Sigma 1\lpha Lpsilun. ''1-:vPrvonP sort ol' ass1111wd that. tlw t.ruslJ\('S wo11l1f try t.11 g-c•t rid of tlw (ir1•nk systnm, but this rn1111• with 110 warning." Ol'li('ials at Uw Ivy l.<•.tgw• St'llool rt'l'usi>d to say wlwllwr 1111• plan 1111•a11s ri·quiring frat1·rnili1\s and sornriti1•s Ill go 1·opd or phasing tlwm oul all1q41'th1•r, but C'ollPgP Prt>sidi•nt .Janws Wright said ii will bP th,· biggPsL 1·.hangn in sorial lil'P at Dartmouth sin«'P wom1in VV(\l'll :ul111ilfrd in I'17'2. Thn rnov1,. annou1wncl in ;i lct1Pr lo studPnls. is ainwd al ('llrnuraging "r(•sp,•(·tf'ul rPlalio11s bPlWl'(~ll womPn and 
111 I'11. 
Communist Parliament positions for power 
MOSCOW 
ll11ssia's C:01111111111ists will dnmand a r1•v,•rsal of rPl'orms and a n1tlnu'.k in prnsi­dP11t ial pow1•rs as ronditions for a tr11c1' l\ilh llw g11Vl'l'lllllPllt, tlwir lPa11Pr said WPd11Psdav. Co111mu11isl l'artv rhinf (;l'1111ady Zy11ga1111v nwt with rPp1ir.ll'rs and ,·al!Pd l'or changl's in what lw tPrnrnd 1!11ssia's "rolll'd-thro11gh political systmn." "l•:1,•rfillns havP by l!llW IJP('OllH' loo mtwh ol' a lrnrdl'n for thP l'ountry. Tlwr1\ arl' no horwsl 1•lp1·tions." Zyuganov said. Analysts say thi• C11111m1111isls f'l'ar lhPy hav1• lilt!<' rhn1H'I' of" winning tlw 2000 prr•sirf Pntial Pl1•,·tions and lrnpP to USP tlwir strong par­lia1111'111.11r} hasl' lo tra11sf'Pr povvprs lo th<' l1•gislalur1•. Tiu• C:ot11111unists also want to r1•\Hill' 1J11• <:011stil11!io11 lo rl\Vl~rsP many post-So,·il'l politirnl l'l'l°tirms. Zy11ganov also dl'111;11Hll'd th;i! p;irlianwnl lw giwn control ovPr Hussian lPll'vision. 
Japanese Viagra approval 
met with criticism 
TOKYO 

111 a movl' that. has outraged womPn's groups, .Japan took a nwrP six months lo apprnv1• tlw impot.PnC(\-1.rnatmrml drug Viagra -whil1• tlw birth rnntrnl pill has bPPll lan­guishing in rPd lapP for ninn yPars. Tokyo's n•l'us;i I to approvP tlw pill Imel drawn prol1•sts i11 till' past. hut Viagra's l'ast-l.rnrk OK lal1\ last month has gPrwratPd an uproar lik<~ nnvnr IHdi,rP. "Wlwn old guys want sornnthing, thny w•t ii.. But wlwn vvonwn want srn1wthing, not.h­ir1g happm1s,'' said Mirlori Ashida. who lwarls a Tokyo-lmsPd grassroots group pushing f'or thn pill's approval. ".Japan is still a nrnlo-dorninat­1•cl s11cif·ty." 

a,m nt~~ 
Dow 
AMFX: 659.94
JONES 
-.\,0(, Nasda,i: 2.WJ.50 
•1.21) NYSE: 578.61
DI 'I .'l'l S&I' 500: 12H55 Com11osite 

• +7.41 
Vnlumc:+44.28 788,.)00,000 
VOLUME LEADERS 
i ,!Ml'1~~ff Ht ~rH 'Hinl,lN!il· Slid.I~ 1·1m·r 
It! 11 ! ! )\fl't~ I I le 1'111111' \lUlll!l'ol  !>II.I,,..,  .t,t;, -H ~4  -.!02.) •. o\.K7~0  Y;.oo -IL.'iO  
i-!"i( ll'i\',ll~t\ '.II< kt l\\ 11 I' r I >kl'  l\l{) \1:-tF!  •2.7 ! ..n .~!.  +2.f162'i +O.~:'il;\  •1H,Sf1 1,,0.62  
\)1,W f\l Ho\U 1', ,\\111( (1,'\I J:-,..1 I !l\'1 !II0!<\11111  INl1 \,,\JII AOI  +-Z 711 ·U.2(l +1.7.4  +.\ 4q7!t h.4•11)11 +l_~r,2:,  121:U'd 1.1.56 1 :\0.50  
\!,\\: lllll f I l!tl' IVt\ 1\ 1,,  ;\MIA,t \f\ I It lCll\  ,H.11 •'I.I,'! -7.-U  -4 ..17110 +I.Oflilll -7.tHJOO  -l'Uli I . .00 M7.2,  

¦ StRB!A 





Talks continue amid NATO threats 

ASSOCIATU1 PRESS 
BAMBOUll.l.ET, Frnnrn 
t\l'tor !'our days of talks, eth­
nic Albanian rolrnls and rival S,, r bs worn sti11 div id P cl Wednesday on a pcar,11 plan l'or Kosovo, and mediators .ha vo ynl Lo broach till' tougli-l'.SI part -NATO dnploymnnt 
in tlw provincn. 
S(' r b-1 (' cl Yu gos! a vi a is 
dPmanding a l'orrnal pledge to 
kncp thn country's borders 
intact. sources from both 
sidos said, whilP Albanian 
nogotiators arn calling for a 
rnfornndum on indep111ulcncE, 
an imnrndiatn ccasn-firc and 
NATO guarantees !'or llin 
Pvrnhrnl intrrirn seHlenwnt. 
In addition. tlrn rnbnl Kosovo 
l.ib(\nttion J\rmy said it would 
not givn up its battln f'or inde­
pnn d1! ncn l'or llrn prov incn, 
wlwrE morn than 2,000 pno­
plP have: dind and tens of 
thousands havn fled their 
homns in a yPar of' fighting. 
Tim warring partiPs wnrn f'orr.Pd into talks bv thn threat of' NATO airstrikes on Yugoslavia -· madP up ol' SPrbia and the smaller rnpub­lic of Montn1wgro -and touglwnml nrnasures to cut olT w<•apons and l'inancing to Urn Kosovo rnbnls. 
Tlw dTort to bring pnacn to SPrbia ·s soutlwrn province is going on in two areas: pnace talks lwtwc('ll opposing sides at this 14th cPnt.ury Frrnch rhalPau and at NATO lwad­quarlPrs in Brussols. whnre of'f'icials laying plans to send up lo :rn.000 pnacekenping troops into Kosovo. 
Britain and France have 
already voluntcnred troops 
and President Clinton says Im 
is considering snnding up to 
4,000 \nwrican soldiers. 

The Snrbs say thny will never allow foreign troops on 
tlwir soil. Thn AmPrirnns say ii' thny don't, NATO will 
bomb S(ffbia. Hussia, a party lo thn talks hem, opposes 
military action. 

Mnanwhile, American envoy C:hristophor Hill and other inlnrnational mediators w11rn taking Sorb and Kosovo Albanian dckgations line-by-line through a proposed interim peace plan drawn up by Lim Unitnd Statos, Russia, France, Britain, Germany and Italy. 
llowever, the nrndiators am holding back on nlnnwnt.s of the plan calling for NJ\TO doploynwnt. considPrnd tlw most divisivP isstw of' all. 
On Wednesday, Yugoslav PresidPnt Slobodan Milosovic demanded that Kosovo Albanians makn a public plndgn to give up their dream of' independenco. 
Trial nears close; removal unlikely 
AsSOCIATED PRE'.SS 
WASHINGTON 
Three Republican senators dHclared Wodnesday they would vote to acquit President Clinton of both articles of impeachment, the clearest sign yet as the trial noared an end that the charges would fall far short of conviction. 
Sens. James Jeffords of 
Vermont, Arl!Hi 
Spector of 
Pennsylvania and 
Chafee John ChafeP of Rhode Is.land ­moderate lawmakers from the Northeast were Urn first Republicans to 11nnom1cP opposition to both articles. perjury and obstruc­tion ofjustice in the Monica Lewinsky affair. 

At the same time, a Democratic drive to censure. Clinton sputtered under Republican opposition. Sen. Diann-0 Foinstein of California saidthat if GOP leaders thwart efforts to force a vote; she might simply draft a statemimtcondemning the president's behayi9r andcirculatc it for senators tcfisign.Jeffords said enough Repuhllcansmay vote against the articles of impeachment to keep the final roll calls on Thursday or Friday short of even 51 votes, although ho subsoquontly softened his prediction. ~The pressure is com­ing on to get a n.1ajority," he said, 
A spokBsman for Majority Leader Trent Lott said there had been no attempt by the leadership to line up votes for conviction. Lott, R-Miss., issued·a statomcnt at midafternoon declaring that the evidence "shows that the president has committed perjury and obstructed justice. 
The only question left is, will the Senate vote to find him guilty of com­mitting these high crimes.'' 
Only a constitutional two-thirds ­67 votes in tho 100-momber Senate -could convict nnd oust Clinton, the second president in history to be put on trial. 
Sen, Slade Gorton, H-Wash.• has disclosed that he will vote to convict Clinton f'or obstruction but to acquit for perjury. 
As the Senate plodded through a second day of' closed-door delib1!ra­tions, .Jeffords said Clinton "gave mis­leading statements ... did obstruct justice. but his actions in this case do not roach the high standard of impeachment.'' A short while later. Specter said the charges "have not boen proved" at tlrn historic month­long trial now drawing to a doso. Ile said he wished Clinton. who refused to he questioned in writing or in per­son, had submitted to a "firm exami­nation" by lawyers in the case. 
page 6 
The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February l l, 1999 

improving race relations is mak­hopp, that by doing this, the ben­conditions bettn according to 
feels no real tension between
ing it safe and romfortabli> to ask cfits of interacting across races sophomore and former LTR
Race 
races, there is definitely a needquestions about race and in1.e1·­will reach more people. 

member Jason Linster. 
to confront sternotypns and talkracial relations,

continued from page l Classes such as Chicana "Different dubs and organiza­about race issues.
The Learning to Talk About Li tern tnre and African• tions spend so much time on "Haces seem to stick to t.h11ir
responsibility of intera;.;tion on Race Retreat is one way Notre American Women \tVriters are a rwents and Caucasians are not own on campus," she said.
the studm1l<;. Hf'cause it i.s possi­Dame hopes to foster racial part of the Saint Mary's curricu-attending," he said. 
Oropeza said that the idfla of
ble for students of various back­intP,ractiou. 0rcurring seYeral 1nm, bringing a heightened Linster said that students need sticking together comes fromgrounds to avoid interaction all tinrns a year, the retreats aim to awareness of other cultures to 
to remember that club activities being able to depend on eachteach up to 40 students how to
four years, Oropeza heliPves stu­thc classroom. But students anrl dances arc for all students. other to supµort and relate.dents need to take the initiative cross racial boundaries. believe more has to be done in If more people attend, then 
Often these women have similar 

to make a difference, Notre Dame senior anJ former tho academic realm bAfore there respect of other cultures will fol­experiences on campus so thoy
retreat leader Jeri D'Ercole said

While Oropeza acknowledges is success. low, creating a comfortable rnm­relate well.
Llw diflkulty !'or Caucasians to that the retreats are outstanding "Obstacles with administration 
munication climate among all I.inster and ll'Ercole agreebe opon nnd ask questions in heeause students hear personal such as the fact that no African races. 
that there is room !'or improve­fPar of sounding ignorant or stories and dAal with strategies American professors teach at While the Offices of 

ment, hut they do soc students

naivo, she says that meaningful to promote change, Saint Mary's µul strains on rela­Multirnltural Affairs on both taking initiative in creatingdialogue needs to orcur. "The environment of the tionships among students," campuses attempt to increase friendships outside their rn.1­
"Hcsponsibility to interact rC'treat allows for open dialogue, Jackson said. Saint Mai:y's docs 
r:ult.ural awarencss and create tures. starts at a personal level, moves making people comfortable not have a plan to increase more meaningful race intflrac­"I would love to have the to a community, and should end enough to whern they start form­diversity on thc campus, slrn 
tion, there remains a factor opportunity to make frinnds from with tho institution incorporating ing relationships," D'Ercole said. said. 
which plays a central role, different backgrounds and r:ul­
war t(,! support int1:rradal inter­This year, LTH students agreed While retreats, classr,s and according to Jackson: the mnn­tures, but it is not easy lo do actron, Oropeza said. to meet for dinners on r:arnpus, forums tu increase meaningful ber of minorities. 
here because of the sizo and lack

Both Oropeza and Outlaw bringing friends who had nol .interaction assist in creating 
Linster and D'Err:ole said that of diV<1rsity," Callahan said. "Aagi·e,i that an important. st!~p in attended the retreat. Students moro awareness on campuses, although numbl'rs ol' diverse stu­
lot of us arc from towns that are students choose how successful dents are low, cv(rnts like the not too diverse either, and so we · V, they work. Planned events like 
retreats create interaction are living in tlw same kind of 
z the bi-annual LTH's attract fnll­between races that turn into lifestyle."UJ cap acity number of students friendships.
~ Fearing a change in habits or 0.. u while Sisters of Nefertiti or "Thorn is tension, sometimes a lifnstyle has potential to incur § R 0 B Asian. AmPrican Association lot, evident at times, which can long-lasting dfccts. 
~ 
u. events draw l'ew ir nu be remedied with open dialogue "I will never fully be pcrceiv!\d
0 Caucasians. 
and mori> methods to fostc~r as a ·real' Saint Mary's studentz Morn involvoment. on the pa.rt racial interaction," D'Frcole said. bncausc of' the color of my skin," 
UJ 
~ of Caucasians wnukl make social Callahan said that while slH~ Jackson said.
o< 
~ 
overturn the December vote
0 8 PM.SU 
~ made by the fellows. The 


w Clause
~ 
Univeristy's legal procedures 
0 ~ 
would not allow such a rever­
continued from page 1 
z sal. 
0 u. During questioning by senate After further questioning about the perceived unneces­
~ members, Hatch admitted that 
~ 
w sary secrecy, Hatch explained 
~ even if the trustees had sup­z ported clause revision, they that Malloy had "wanted it that => way."
w would not have been able to 
I 
I-
Savethe world. Recycle The Observer. 

ATH• ELECTRICAl ENGINEERING• MECHAt.JICAl Et~GU~EERING• BUSINESS ANALYSI 
When something is too extreme for words, it's to the Nth degree. And that's the level of technology you'll experience at Raytheon. 
Raytheon has formed a new technological superpower-Raytheon Systems Company, composed of four major technological giants: Raytheon Electronic Systems, Raytheon E·Systems, Raytheon Tl Systems and Hughes Aircraft. The new Raytheon Systems Company is driving technology to the limit. And we're looking for engineers who want to push the envelope, Break new ground. Make their mork. 
At Raytheon, you'll take technology-and your career -to the highest possible level. You'll take it to the Nth. We'll be visiting your campus soon, Contact your career placement office now to schedule an interview, or check out our website at www.rayjobs.com. If you are unable to meet with us, please send your resume lo: Raytheon Resume Processing Center, P.O. Box 660246, MS-201, Dallas, TX 7 5266. We hove many exciting opportunities available and we would like to totk to you. 
Internet: www.rayjobs.com • E-mail: resume@rayjobs.com 
U.S. citizenship may be required. We are an equal opportunity employer. 



Raytheon 

Thursday, Fehruary l I, 199') The Ohserver • CAMPUS NEWS page 7 




Chamberlain
. 

-opened for Pearl Jam in Deer Creek 

Old Pike 

-toured with Ben Folds Five 
¦ STUDENT SENATE 

Senate distributes parietals survey 
By Tll'vl LOGAN 
As.1m iJlt' New, !.di tor 
1\ pariPtals s11rv1iy distrih­HIPd by th1• Student Strnalc today ;nay Ile the first stc•p toward a r1!s1Jlulion rP1·om­1111·1Hlinl-{ a d1a11Mr in thl' 1·1J1'­r,.nt svst.Pm, rrnimbPrs of IIH' sP11111t>s n•sidPnrP lifo i:·om­rnittPP said WP(]twsday. 
TltP s11rvPy, which ,viii IH' mailt>d to 1,200 on-campus 11111l,•rgrad11alPs. will Ill' ust>d t11 d1·t1•rmi11P sl11dr•nt.s' l'Pcl­ings on parintals. potPntial f'.\t1•11sio11 opLions and tho cl'f'cds ltw systPm has tlll g,!nrl,ir r,•lations at Nolrn l>.im,•. S1•11ators have bPon studying lhn pari,1tals issu,1 for much of tlln t,wm, and aro looking for a wider range of sl11dn11l input. 
"Bas1•d llll tlw kind of rnply w1! g1!t, wn'll s,in if WP take rurthn artion," said Pasq11nrilla W1ist sPnator S11sn11 (;Joss. Thi' surv11ys arc du11 had 1:rid11y, Ft>b. 2h, und a11y SPIHltP rPsolution would likdy come in early l\1an:h. 1;1oss said. A rnsolu­1ion would lik1dy addrtiss inrnnsisll•ndes in parietal n11for1:n1rnint bf'tWPen resi­dnnrn halls, und would possi­bly rPcomnwrHl an nxtnnsion ol' hours 011 thc-we1ikcnds and ovPr breaks. 
Tlw last lirnP tlw Sl'll/LIP add1·rsspd purintals was in l 'l'J4-'J:i. wlu•n it s1!nt sPvcral n•commPndations to tlrn Campus Lif'P Council. Those rPcomrnmHlations w<'ro con­sidPrnd bv II cu: commilt('C, buL 111w1\-r reached dehatP hPl'orn tlw f'ull body, a1Tord­i11g to Keough Slmator BJ'ian <n>nnnghu,1. 
"Pt\l'haps it's linw to try sonrnthing of this nat11rr again," said residence lifo 
t:omrnitt.nl'  chair  Malt  
Mamak.  
In otlwr senate news:  
• Thi' rnsidPnc1\ life  com­ 

rnitlPP outlined its plans for t!rn r<'maind11r of the term. wbirh ends April 1. Issues 1.hP cornmiltPI~ hop.is to raisP ,u·n maint.1m1tncn of the stu­dent government unlinn bookst.orn, further adjust.­mont to nrnal plan options and support of the continued usn of Heck,irs as 24-hour spaco. 
• This smnestcir's student governnwnt report to the Board or TrustPos will lik"IY concern exprriential learning programs at Notre Dame, said llrnw Ol,1jnik, co-chair of lhr Acadnmic Affairs commit­tee. Three possible report topic~ will be presented to Lim Scrnate at next week's mooting. Other subjects uncfpr considPration indudt1 int1irnational studios pro• grams and, possibly, the addition or sPxt11tl oricmtation to tlw lJniv,,rsity's non-dis­crimination r.Jause. 

Prof: Bible neglects oppressed 
By LINDSAY FRANK 
Nl·ws 'Xlrircr 
Tlw Book or .Joshua dons not 
olTnr i11dig1\t1ous or OJ)Jlrnsscd 
1wopln many options to allPviatn 
llwir situations, said Bandai! 
Bail<'y, associatP prof'nssor of' 
Old T1•sfaml'nt and l l!'IJrl'w at. 
th" lntPrdPnominalional 
Th1·1>logi1'.al CPntl'r in Atlanta. 
".Joshua givl's pPopln who am opprPSS<'d no othPr succ1'.sshrl opt.ions otlwr than collahora­tiun," said Bail1iy. For that rim­son MailPy viPwPd tho hook of' Joshua as "onl' of' llw most. dan­gnrous books r,I' tlw BiblP for hlark pPopl(•." 
BailPy strossPd how tlw majority ol' Biblical stori1is am rarPly viPWPd f'rom tlw nyPS of tlH• indig1•110us pPopl(\, citing that llw rnadPr ol'lPn id(\IltiliPs with tlw opprossor as opposed lo tlw opprPssnd. 
'Tm i11lPr1\stnd in whv it is WP idPntily with lsraC'I ev11r1 though our own history of opprnssion is IllOI'(' akin to that or lsral'l'S so­('.a) ll'd l'rwrnios," said Bailny. ''TIH>SI' of us who llilVI\ hn1m dis­possPSSl'd ol' land should rnaliw that th is cl ispossnssion Iof' tlw Canaanit.Ps by lsraPII was wrong. 
ll1!garding tlw Book of' .Joshua. lw citNI Joshua 2. t) and 10-11 as thrn1\ spp1:il'ic narralivPs in whirh till' opprnssnd cliaracfors am rrngativoly shown. In tlrn first narrativ11, the prostilutn Bahab hidns spins sent by Joshua to survr.y .Jnricho. Bailoy point.Pd out that whiln tlw narrator paints Bahab as a powPrl'ul and shrnwd rwgoliator ill'l'.allS<' s hi' succnssf'u lly pn•­VPnls tlH• dPmis1• of' lwr family, slw was actuallv a trail,;r toward lll'r pnoplP. · 
• 

In tho socond narratiV(' tlw (;ilmonitPs, in an r.ffort to savn their pPopln from dnslrudion by t.lw lsranlites, trick Joshua into making a lrnaly with llw 111. Upon discovering Lill' (;ibconitps' tricknry Joshua SPn­tPncPs thnm to slavnry. Bail1•y m11phasizml lhat dcspitP the fart that tlwy 1mslaVP tlw (;ilmonitPs, the lsraditcs arn portraypcJ in a positivn light bncausn tlwy kopt tlwir part of the trnaty. 
"Thn nrnssagP of this narra­tive is that the Gilrnonitns should bo glad that thny 1111dnd up as slavPs because tlwy could havn ber.n killnd." said Bailey. 
Tlw thil'!I narrative focusnd on llw liw kings of tlrn north and snuth and how Limy wnrn too frightnrwd to fight lsraPI so tlwy hid in a largn ravf' . .Joshua l'inds and slaughtPrs thPm. Bailny ~1111phasizPd that t111, 
0 

options prPSPiltPd lo oppr1•ss1•d pPopl1• in tlwsn narrativPs wPrn vnry clisconcPrt.ing sinc.n thn opprt\SSPd nitlwr hPcamP 1'11slav1:d or killml. 
"Basically tlJo lllPssagP of' thns11 narratiVPs is bf' a Hahab. Forgd wlwr" you com<' f'rom, b('tray your p1wplP. and adopt tlw god of' IIH' invad<'rs in ordPr lo saV(! yourself'," lw said. 
Tlw 1iositiw dPpir.tion of tlw opprPssors actions i11 tl1PSI' narrativPs has ol'll'n lln(•n tlw basis f'or morl' conlPmporary invasions likn Europnan immi­gration and thn concPpt. of' man­ifnst destiny nxactnd on North and South Anwrira. BailPv said that tlwsi, 11arrat.iv1·s nrnk;• p1m­pl1•, likP tlwir prPdl'l'nssors, fppJ "that adopting tlwsP IH'lrnviors is (;od sanrlio1wd and that is vvhy thPsP storins an• Sil dangPr­ous . 




--=-> 
page 8 The Observer• NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, February 11, 1999 

Senators criticize Starr's investigation 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGT0N 
lndApendenl Counsel Kenneth Starr came under inl:reased crilicisrn \'\'ednesday as a Dcmonntic senator ques­tioned his conduct of the Monica Lewinsky investiga­tion. 
The Justice Department also has advised Starr it intends to investigate the actions of Starr's olTice, including the Jan 1h, 1998 offer to Ms. Lewinsky of an immunity deal conditioned on her Ullt dis-· cussing il with her lawyer, Frank Carter. 
An otlrn r possi b I e area of inquiry: Starr's failure to inform th(> department that he and others on his staff had contact with lawyers working on Paula Jones' sexual harass­rni>nt suit against President Clinton. 
Democrats have suggested a possiblP conflirt and misrepre­sentation when Starr's prose­cu tors told th11 Justice Department they hadn't had any contact with Mrs. .Jones' lawyers. 
Those comments by Starr's prosCTcutors are memorialized in notes taken by participants at a meeting in January 1998 at the .Justice Departmei1t, when Allorney General Janet Reno was trying to decide wheth11r Starr's office should handle the L11winsky investiga­tion. 
"We've lrnard a lot about the rule of law recently" in the impeachmr.nl trial. said Democratic Sen. Tom Harkin. "How dons" the rule of law "apply to Ken Starr and the 0fficn of Independent Counsel? Honesty and truthfulness and the rule of law also applies to 
thnse who are cloaked with the authority and the responsi­bility uf' enforcing those laws." 
One area that may be nl' con­cern to the Justice Department is tho contact between Paul RosPnzweig. who is a memh<'r of Starr's offic11, and Philad1llphia lawyer .forome Marcus, who assisted Jones' legal team. 
Four days before Linda Tripp's first ~ntact with Starr's office on fan, 12, 1998, Marcus spoke with Hosenzweig about the Lewinsky allegations, a con­tart that Starr conlirmod in his testimony Nov. 19 to the House Judiciary (ommittee. Starr said his office did not act on it that hti did not believe the information on Jan. 8, 1998 included any mention of Linda Tripp's name. 
fn ·addition, The New York Times has reported that there were several conversations between Marcus and Hosenzweig from November 1997 to January 1998. 
There also·are questions about the contact between Starr law partnf1r Richard Porter and New York book agent Lucianne Goldberg. 
When Tripp was looking for a new attorney, Goldberg called Porter on Tripp's behalf. The question is whether, through his contact with Goldberg, Porter ended up representing anyone, including Tripp, involved in the case who went to the pros­ecutor's office. 
Depending on precisely what Porter did, Starr could have been barred from taking on the Lewinsky probe because of a conflict-nf-interest provision in the Jaw governing appoint­ment of independent counsels. 

Got News? 
. 

Call The Observer at 631-5323. 
For discreet professional care... 




offcampus. 
Psychiatry 
Eating Disorders 

and Chemical Dependency 
Memorial 
Pathways Center for Behavioral Health'M 
MARNIN FISCHH.-\CH, M.D. 
Psychiatry 

GERALD P. MYERS, M.D. 
Eating Disorders and Chemical Dependency 
284-3153 


Man wins right to display poster 
Associated Press 

WESTMINSTER. Calif. 
/\ Vietrnunese man who was attacked, picketed and givm1 an eviction notice for displaying a llo Chi Minh portrait in his vidP.o store in the ritv's Little Saigon section won the right to put the poster back up Wednesday. 
That decision immediately triggered new protests. The shopkeeper, Truong Van Tran, was met by a crowd of 150 peo­ple and hit in the face as he returned to the store put the poster back in the window. Paramedics took him away in an ambulance. 
Earlier, 700 demonstrators, many rarrying yellow-and-rP.d flags from what was onre South Vietnam, crammed the hallway outside the courtroom in nearby Santa Ana where Tran's case was lrnard. 
Judge Barbara Tam Nomoto Schumann, reversing an earlier decision, allowed Tran to dis­play the poster and a Vietnamese nag in his Hi Tek video store. 
"Mr. Tran's display is undis­putedly offensive and engenders hatred," the judge said. "However, these symbols are part nr political speech which Mr. Tran has a right to express even if the context of that exprr.ssion is oITensivi,." 
Tran, 37, left court without comment. 
Aftor the ruling, hundreds of demonstrators cirded the court­ho use, chanted "Down with communists!" and hoisted signs with messages like: "Communists want blood not free speech." 
!lours later, Tran drove to the store. where protesters were waiting for him. As he climbed from his blue Hyundai, leaving 



~ --­
his wife and two children inside, hA was hit and knorked to the ground, wherP he remairH1cl, with his pyes closPcl, for sevPral min1.Jtes until police arrived. 
Tran's wall-sized poster of the late communist leader was seen as especially offensive in Little Saigon, whirh is home to 200,000 Vietnamese-Amerirans. Many of tlrnm fled South Vietnam after communist North 
'THE FACT THAT SOME 
PEOPLE DON'T UKE 
FREE SPEECH HAS NEVER 
BEEN A BASIS IN THIS COUN­
TRY TO STOP IT FROM BEING 

EXPRESSED.' 

PETER hI.!ASBEII<; 
ACLU A rroRNFY 
Vietnam invaded in 1975. Others left nearly a decade later when they weni !'reed from prison camps. 
Protesters compared Tran'.s act to posting a portrait of J\dolf Hiller in a Jewish neighborhood. 
Tran has never publicly 
oxplainod why Im sN up thn dis­play. lln told policP h<~ did it because IH' could and btwausn lw wantnd lo antagonizo nnigh­borin g businesses he was unhappy with, Lt. Miko Schlisky said. It was not imm,1diately known whon Tran came to tho United Stales. 
The protests started in January, drawing crowds of up to 500 pciople a day. On Jan. 18, Tran was struck on tlrn head during a demonstration but was not seriously hurt and rnrused lo file a complaint. 
Terra-13 uch a rd Ltd.. tlrn owner of the shopping strip that houses Iii Tek, gave Tran :rn days to get out, saying Im violat­ed his lease by interforing with other tenants' business. 
The company also went to court against Tran, and on .Ian. 21 Ms. Schumann ordered Tran to tak11 down the display. But after a hearing Wednesday, she refused to isstw a prPliminary injunction that would hav() extcnd()d the order. 
"The fact that some pnnple don't lik11 sp11ech has nev11r benn a basis in this country to stop it from being nxprnssnd," said Pete:r Eliasberg, an attornny for tlw Amnrican Civil LibPrtiPs Union. which hacked Tran. 


CIVIL/ROAD E.NGINEER 
Seeking Civil Engineer for Highway Design Department. Experience in INDOT Highway Design procedures desired. Minimum two years 
. experience; P.E. preferred. Salary commensurate with experience. Good benefits. 
Contact Butler, Fairman and Seufert, Inc. 9405 Delegates Row Indianapolis, IN 4640 317.573.4615 
------WHY NOT.. .. 
I Birthplace: Plain, WI I Previous Job: Rector, Morrissey Hall 
I 
Years as Rector: 21 
I I 

"God wants more Fisher men.
I 

ANSWER THE CALL--today!" 
I 
--Bro. Ed Luther, C.S.C., Rector, Fisher Hall
I I 
For more information on
I 
Holy Cross1 one-year
I 
Candidate Program
I 
contact:
I 
Fr. Jim King, C.S.C. or
I 

Fr. Bill Wack, C.S.C. 
I 

1-6385
I 
vocation. l@nd.edu
I 
• 
• ~ ---~ FOLLOW HIM .... ? 
chock out TI-IE PLUNGEatwww.nd.edu/ ~vocation 
Thursday, fehruary I I, 1999 
¦ ETHIOPIA 


Ethiopia, Eritrea exchange fire 
---------------------------.---------~~-------~-"'"--------------------~ -­
The Observer • NEWS page 9 
Judge orders pilots to end sickout 
Associated Pres, 
ADJllS i\BJ\B!\ 
Ii Lhio pia a n cl Fr i trt• a l'Xrhur1g1·d artill1•ry f'irn \\'Pdn1•sdnv. whilr th1\ llnitm! Nations s1,ught lo rnt off tho J'I ow () J' arms lo th 1· two 1:01rntriPs' vinlunt border dis­putn. 
Tl11~ nxt,int of \\'Pdrwsday's f'iJ.thtin~ was unrl1q~r. Ethiopia r.lainwd hnavy bat­1.!ns wnlinw~d for a lillh clay, hut I•:rilr!':i insislPd nll f'ronts wr>rn tn11s1• hut calm. 
H,qiorters near Tsorena, tdght mill's i11lo Eritrea f'rom t.hn disputP<I bordnr, wit­nnssnd somP artillPrV i\)((·f11111gl's in tfw morning and said thnv saw tho hodif•s of at least It ·dozun Ethiopian soldiC'rs. It was unclrar 
wllf'n tlw solrliflrs wiirtl 
killrd. 1uul no otlwr rnports of fighti111-t could lrn con­tirnrnd. 
Th<' l'ighting this WPok st<'ms from a border dispute that rirst turned violent in May. whnn 1,000 ~rnoplo wrro killed. 
Meanwhile. members of llw U.N. Sucurity Council passod a rnsolution demand­ing an immediate end to the lighting. ovrr the objections of both Eritma and Ethiopia. 
The crnmcil dcmandod that ull countrifls voluntarily and immodialc'ly slop tlrn sale of' arms and ammunition to Ethiopia and Eritrea and diplomats said it was a pre­ludo to a likely mandatory 
U.N. arms embargo if the fighting doesn't end soon. 
"Wo might lrn wihrnssing soon the first high-tech war in .l\frica," Ambassa.dor Mnlrnrni,d Sahnoun, thn t:.N. special nnvoy to the region. said aflnr bri111ing-_the coun• 
r.il. "Both sides havo pur­chased sophisticatncl fighter pianos for bombing purpos­ns. IL is a dbaster." 
In Washington, Stat<' l)opartnrnnt spokesman James !{ubin said lhe admin­istration is partir.ularly con­c·crnNI by reports that air­craft and lwlicopt.nrs are s11pp11rti11g g,·ound lighting. '"W<''re working to encour­age both Eritrea and Ethiopia lo nxnrdsc restraint and end the currnnt fighting immediately," he said. 
!111 also cal l1~d 011 both sirllJ!'l t.o recommit Ihem­selves to the air strike mora­torium, noting it has been violatr-d. · 
Ethiopian Foreign Minister Seyrnoun Mesfin said the international community should pressure Eritrea "to accPpt and implement" a peacP propusal by the Organization of African Unity. Und11r the proposal, Eritrea would withdraw from contested territory along the 620-milc border. 
Unless Eritrea agrees, Mostin said, "the only option left for Ethiopia is to fight the aggressor and regain its territory, occupied by force." 
ln tho Eritrean capital, Asmara, Ye mane Gebremeskel, adviser to Prosidont Isaias Afworki, ridiculed a report that a cease-lire had been agreed on. "A cease-fire? Between whom?" he asked. "It takes two to make a cease-fire." 
Associated Press 

DALI.AS 
/\ l'ncleral judge orclnred pilot,-, at /\nrnrica.11 Airlines Wndnm,day to end a sickout that has grounc!Pd 2,500 llights. strandncl au t\StimatPd 200,000 tntVl'lnrs am! IPl't husi1rnsses scrambling to lind nnw ways to ship cargo. 
U.S. District .Judgn Jon Knndall rhidml tho pilots unio11 and tlrn airlirm in issuing a tnmporary rnstrainin){ ordPr and told thrnn to rnsu1111' rwgotiating. 
"It's silly f'or us to PVPn hn horl'." hn s11id. "It's like killing a g11at with a sl1•dgi1 hamnwr." 
KPndall I.old Lil<' pilots to rnturn to work Thursday and warned Llwy could be h(']cl in contmnpt or court if tlwy don't. "Whnn you call in sick and you're not malty sick. you'rn a liar." said K1111dall. fie also placNI somn blamn for tlrn dis­putl' rn1 the airline. 
"If you would look up bad labor r•'lations in tlw dictionary, you would havn an AmnrinLn /\irlin()S logo bnsidn it," Kl'ndall said. 
AMH Corp., the airline's par­ent company, had asked for t.lrn judgo's order. 
"They're t.hreatnning lo bri11~ thr> airlinn to a r.ornplPtc\ hal1," 
'IFYOU WOULD LOOK UP 
BAD LABOR RELATIONS 

IN THE DICTIONARY, YOU 
WOULD HAVE AN AMERICAN 
AIRUNES LOGO BESIDE IT.' 
JOI: KEl\D.111.1. 
U.S. !J1snucr J111Jr;1, 

AMH attorrrny Dnn Knlly sairl. 
Tim pilots lwgan calling in sick and rl'f'using ovPrtinrn Saturday af'trr talks brokn down with thn company about Lill' salarins paid pilots of llern> Air, which ,\MH rnccn11y acquired. American pilots are barn·d by fodnral law from striking over tlw issue. 
Some Hcno pilots makn half' thn $ I(,4,000 a year that an nxpnriPnced Anrnl'ican pilot makes and Uw .l\mNic:1111 pilots want AMB to add 1{1,110 pilots to tlw hight>r pay sra!P quirkly. 
AMH said that it will takP about 12 lo IX months do that and tlH• pilot union's df'll!ll!Hls would cost as llltH'h as $:iO mil­lion this yPar. llw airlirH' Pst.i­matPd that 2,400 or tlH' ').400 Am1\rican pilots havP <·allPcl in sick sine!\ tlw talks hrokP oil'. 
AMI{ spok1•sma11 Chris C:hiamns s;rid th,, 1·ompa11y hPli1\ved tlw pilots would ahid,• by the judgP's orch\r. "WP haw nPver qtll'stiorwrl a pilot that has call,\d in sick. V\1(1 just hop<' tlwy will al! gPt. lmtt1•r soon," lw said. 
J\lliPd Pilots .l\ssoriation pn\si­dnnt lfo:h l.aVoy said 11f'Wr thP !waring that th,; union "will hi' P1H·ouragi11g our pilots lo gt'l bw·k in th,~ r.m·kpits." 
Whnther that will happnn l'l'lllllins Ill IH' S<'<1ll. !Juring a JH'1•vious pilot sickout against American in I')'>0. many l"ailnd to rNurn d11spitP a cuurl ordnr. 
t Snfte Museum Shop

1• 

University or Notre Dame 
Pre-Valentine's Day Sale }.4, February 10-12 ~ ' . ' ..."" 
25% to 60% o-ff 
Plu-. tree poate-r with purchue. No other dbeount• apply. .W edneadaw 10·4 p.m .. Thursday &-Friday 10·6 p.m. 
GET IN THE 







THICK 
OF IT. 
Conveniently located in the heart of downtown South lknd, Old Chicago Steakhouse h.is the hottest grin in town, serving up a NEW MENU of juicy USDA prime filet mignons, t-bones, ,rnd ribeyes (as well chick-:n, burgers and salads, coo). 
See why steaks arc our consuming passion. 
222 S. MICHIGAN•SOUTH BEND (219) 234-5200 
Summer away in DC! 



Spend your summer ;it the virtual pulse­point of world afl':1irs -Washington. I)C. World-re11mvned George \Vashillh'ton U11ivnsity offers you more than 7tHl courses -from the arts to lllath and computer science tu human development -in the heart of official Washington. ¦ You can lcc1rn from recognized experts in your d1ose11 fit·ld. 'fake in the museums, n1onu111t:11ts and cultural attractions. Work out on nules of bike and jogging trails. There's no place qmte hke Our Nation's Capital. • Or, you can choose om· of our study abroad programs and venture to fascinating foreign bmk ¦ Join GW's world-class faculty and other adve11turous students i11 an e11richi11g expcr­icnct· you'll rH.:'Vt·r forg,:t. 
CALL 202.994.6360 FOR DETAILS. 



VIEWPOINT 
page IO 
-----------------Thursday, February I I, 1999 
THE OBSERVER 
Nnm,' DAME Orner: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SMN·1 /\lA1d.1 OfHCE; 309 ~laggar. Nom· Dame. IN 46556 (2 l 9) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Hc:1the-r Cocks 
MANAGJNG EDITOR Brinn Reinthaler 
I\S>ISTANT MANAGINC Enrrt)II He:trhcr i\..f:1cKc111ie 
NFWs EnJTOR ........................Michelle Krup.1 V1FWPOINT EmToR ............Fd11ardo Uni\ SroRTI Eonon ... .ll;,rhleen I ope,. Sc.FNr ErnTORS. ... Soroh Oyl,g 
Kri..ri Klit~ch SAtN1· MARY1S EDITOR .......M Sh,mnon Ry,rn PHOTO EnJTOR ........................ Kevin D.1lwm 

BUSINf,SS MANAGER Kyle Carlin 
AnvtRTJS1NG MANAGER....., ................. B1viin Lurz Ar, DFSIGN MANAGFR ................!\rm Hu,l.it SvsTF.M.I MANAG1R........ .. .. Mich.,d Brouilkr COt','TROT I.flt. ........-. .....D:1vc Rogcro WF.n ADMINISTRATOR . Alli!'.011 Krill,1 GRAPIIIC.S EDITOI< ...............................Pe« Cildl., 
'l'h,;.· ()h:,i,;rv1,;r i:-. rh1.: indcp1:ndc1H nc\v;,.p;,.1cr ptihlii.hca hy 1h~ ',111lb1,., ,~r d11.! Cnivi.:r~iry ,1fNom.' D.um.: dll 1..1, .,ud S.1im ~I.uy's Cc1llct:,I.!, h d1.1C!t mit 1m;c~.'i,1tilr n•n,:ct thL p(,lKi.:i-(lr dw ,1d111mist1.ui(1n ,,j Litlwr i1mitution. The news i,­[(:pont,\ ;,;~ ,w;::ur.uLly .ind ol1jL>t:tivdr .t1, p(is,ihlc, lJn~ignL·d ,·diu1ri.d~ rc11n.~cru d1<. opinion Df Lhc 111,1jm ity ,1~ the Fditor-in-CliieC M,1n.i~u1~ Fdlt()J, A,s,isum .vt'.nKlf;ing fd1wr ,\lll1 '-kp;ulm<.·1u c."din11.~. Cmn111cnt.1riL~, it.:rccn ,ln(I L·nlt111111s rre~<cnr rh(: ,·lL"w, uf" d_\c ;Ulthun,, .111,I 11()[ ll~<.,$S,1r1lr rl10SL' ofTl11..: ()h.,cl"\'<.:r. Vii wpomc_sp;\Ll' 11' .1V.1i1:1hlc [O ,11! 
mcmlwr,. of the \11,trc D,111KfS,1im M.1ry'.... con11nt!!lH)' am! tn .tll r<.'a(!<.:r~. l'he fn:L· e:ri;prc,..,u,n nf '-'-1rying opimnn.-. 
rhrm1f:h k1tl.'.rs i, l'l1'0t1 r.1go:! 

Contacting The Ob,erv...cr Editor-in-Chief 6.l 1-45'!2 Bu,i11css Office Managit1g Edimr/A!'.'!.i;ilani ME 631 4541 ,\dveni,in~ Nt.:w!>/Photo 63 I•5323 Sy,mm Sporb 6:11-4~-,3 Fax Scenc:lSaint l\1.irv'!> 6.11-454() \'i<-'wpoi11t E-~/4.ii/ Dav Editor/Vie\-{·point G~ 1-530.~ Ad E-~-bil Office i'.1anager!Gener:1! l11form:1tion 6.,1-7471 News E-Mail 631-5.l l.l 
631-6?00/88/i0 
631-8839 
6.1 l-G927 
\/1cwpoinr. lt?n..::l.t:du oh~crver@'d;1rv,:i11.. cc nd edu oh:.ervrr.obsnews.1@nd.edu 


¦ foR AMom: Jusr Ai'JD HUMANE VJmu.n 
Sem Agua, Nao Da 
Tlw Northeast region of Brazil is facing what may !Jr> tlm worsl drought of the century with 9.5 million people at risk ol' hungnr. r>-fows of tlrn tragedy has barely extnndcd bnyoncl llrn borders of Brazil. 
Center for Social Concerns 
In llw stalP of l'araiba, whf!re I work as a Maryknoll lay missiorwr. hungry rural f'arnwrs have sought rPf'ugn in the capital <·itv of' Joan Pessoa. The final destination fo1: some, including Dona Bnndita da Silva and lrnr family, has been the city garbage dump. Dona BnnPdita left her home in TPnnra, .luaznrinho (200 miles west of' Joiio Pessoai a month ago. 
In a cardboard. mud and wood scrap dwdling. she shan'd with me how she m1dPd up in thti dump. "Wn wnre surviv­ing unlil my husband got a lung diseaso and nrn:dml nwrlicin!'. In order to pay fi>r it. WP sold our t.rdpa (mud and stick) housp and startnl rPnting. The monthly paynwnts wPrr. small and we wern ahlP to cov<'r tlwni by s<~lling a small portion or our crops of corn and beans. Tlwn tlw drought lwgan and \-\'(' lost the crop. Aft<~r all that work. Pwrything died. 
Wn couldn 't pay tli<· 50 cents to buy watPr, so we drank tlw muddy stuff l'rom a maknshil't well in Lim backyard. But soon that driPd up. Sm11 ,igua, nan da ­You t·,rn 't makE it without water, so Wt\ IPl't. 
I had an unde in tlw dump so we came lwre. Ile helpi,d us put together our shark_ EvPrything you S<'(; in here we col­l1ictod from thr garbage. Our hig find was this mattrrss that WI\ deaned up and dri1'd oul. VV1! eat l'rom thn leftovnr food linmd in thti dump. 
i\1y husband, Jonas, and tlw old1ff boys 
¦ Doom:srnmv 
tOOK, I AlJMITIT-I Tl/INK ll/5AMa?ICANff:O­
fUi5Ha/U? P&/Jln!i'A!iCPBY 
Ct-/NlONl me PACT THAT 
71-f&Y'RE NOT/SAFI/Rl'H&R a/f7?A(3e..l 
\ 
go out every day al 5 a.m. and don 't conrn home until 8 p.m. They sift through garbage all day in hope of finding trea­surns for the house. ndiblc food and scraps of metal. glass and plastic to sell to the recycling plants, But it 'shard, them arc too many people in the dump to make it." 
Since late 1997, the government had been warned that this could be the worst drought of the century. Nothing was done for five months, Desperate and hungry. 
ptiople have startnd raiding schools and grornry slorns for food. 
Ttw Catholic Church 's response to the drought has bmm prophetic. Speaking at tlw 36th Assembly of the National 
-,,. -l _.
C:onferr.nce of 
-
Bishops in April of 1998, 

-;J .,­
Archbishop 
/ Dom \1arcelo .• .r 
~~ 
Pinto . Carvalheira of' ­tlw Archdiocese of' Joan Pessoa, l'arafba prodainwd that a starving and dt!stitute person !ms the righl to steal food. Tim 
-t==-='­
@ 
statrment had thn desirrd rffoct. Within days of the announcnnwnt. thP guvnrnmrmt began distributing cnrnrgrmcy suppliPs or food three wP.eks i1head ol' schr,dule. Last May, mnnrgnncy public work projects W<ffe organized, but lack ol' payment of tlrn 50 dollar monthly salary (1/2 minimum salary) has ignited more food raids throughout the region. 
Even with govnrnment assistance for tlw entire period of the drought (which is by no means cnrtain i. thP thrr.at or starva­tion remains. The monthly government ration or llour, dried buans, rice, cooking oil and spaglmfti is bar1!ly enough for t,1vo weeks. This leaves the pPoplc vvith ll(lth-


No Way without Water 
ing to eat half the month. They have alrnady rosortcd to eating the cactus nor­mally grown as cattlefoed, but even this will Im exhausted soon. Forecastnrs pn\­dict no new crops for subsistence farmers for at least a year. 
rnstribution of the emergency food bas­kets has also berm erratic, with many communities yet to receive assistance. Equally serious is the lack of drinking water and the need to truck it in to many 
areas. 1kcording to the uperintrmdency for Dnvclopmcnt of tlw Northeast (SUDENl!J. 70 percent or tlw muniri­-~ Jalitics in tht) 
~~::--­
~ 
-~mi;~~::,;::=;~~:-=~ 
_,,,,r
~


/'....,,._,, · _ 
..-.---­
~ 
,-,,-r 
_ __. 1 ~ 

-/ ..--1­

cgion an~ in a ,ritical situation due to the scarcity of 
water. City bus stations all over Brazil arn 
full of small farmers lkcing this n•alitv, 
. 
J,ik!) most famines. tlw rooL<; of' this crisis 
f,'f r---:::; ./',.c• 

go much denpcr ~ _ ~ fh.. than the drought. ~~ 
The N.ortheast !a ni1w stale rngion with 45 mil­lion pmiple) is semi-arid. receiving 4 times tlrn amount of rnin of California. But tlw region rnmains trapped in intens<\ poverty with 47 pnr­cm1t of the pcoplr~ of' l'arafba (arguably the poorest statn in Brazill living in mis­erv. Over one-third of' the statc 's 3.28 million rr,siclcnts has no inconw. The impact of this irnriodic drought. made worse by the pffoct of El Nino. has exacerbated lhe misery hem caused by unjust distribution of rr.sourccs. A mnre l pPrccnt oftbr. Brazilian populat.ion holds 4 7 porc:cnt orthe arable !and with !argP tracts left idle for speculation. I.argr. landowners haw clos<' til'S to ilw political elite who oft.en block progress on tho land 
rPform, whirh was guaranl!•ed in tlw 1998 Constitution, 
There am viabln solutions to tlw inevitable low rainfall including irrigation and wnlls that suc<·essive governmPnts have ignon\d. In four y1,ars. the govcrn­mnnt has only spent $(>82 million of tlrn $4 billion 11armark<'d for 52 drought rnliPf projects. Gov,nrnment oflicials rncen!ly admitted that some $45 million budgc,tnd l'or mnergency rPlinf was divt\rtecl to lwlp pay off thn country 's galloping public debt. lht\ largnst in tlH' developing world. 
In 1CJ95, tlw Brazilian Environnwntal and Natural Bt•sources lkparlnwnt cited :iO incompl<'lP drought rPli<-f projp,·ts that have consunwd $408 million sinrP 1979. Many of tlw projPcts haw bcPn on hold !'or rnon• than livn ypars. According to 11,,!inister c;ustavo Kraus. "tlrn numlwrs point to corruption. special inh!rnst poli­tics, wast<\ and incom1wtencn ... WP an' throwing away monny whih• pPopl<• are dying of thirsL" 
Meanwhile for Dona lknPdita and otl11•r rural f'armnrs flnPing this drought. tlw most dillicult situation in tlw citv is tlw lack ofjobs. Many of tlw 11Pwrn,"1wrs will bng or sif't t.hrnugh garbagP until llw rains conrn again. "l'Pop!P ar1) Paling roastPd grasshoppPrs and i:ompding with tlw cat­lln for rartus," <·omnwntPd i\rrhbishop llom Marrnlo in a ,!uni' 1 intPrvil'\\'. "I ·111 angry with t!H• sysl<'m that allows this and forgets ilw misPry o/'tlll' poor. Tlw rich raid tlw rPsm11·c,·s of' !hi' gm'PrnmPnt. and 110 o,w says anything. Wlwn llw p<1or raid to Pal. evPryorll' scn•ams." 
Kathleen !fond is a 'RR graduate r!f' Saini Mary 's (,'ol/ege. Currently. she is a Maryknoll lay missioner fl'()rkiny ll'ilh rcomen ·sand human rights issues in Joiio Pessoa. l'araiba Rra:.il. For 11 ,\Jori' Jusl And Ilumane World is a hi-u•eekly column sponsored by the Center jrJr Social CrmcPrns. The autlrnr 's 1•ie1os do 1101 nec­<'ssari/y rc:/Tecl the 1iiews r!f'//w Cenfffji1r !--,'orial Concerns or The Ohseruer. h'!nail r·ommenls to: /V/J.11de11tr.w:. 7@nd.<'du 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
7Ht PU!JtJCt; PON6 lHI~Uli ­
FOR&.1 71-16Ytol/a?Ot!V81<.JJ''JR!Hr ANP1113 Re,LlUfl,(IAs; A Cl?IMINAt./ R<ANKt-Y,M IN7HeueP/A HAVeHAP IT uPm /.16RPl,(JfTH 7H&PBOPJ.£'.'I 
¦ Quon OF rnt DAY 
,Jwill make it a felony to drink small beer.' 
-William Shakespeare 
King Henry VI Part IV 







VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, Fcbrnary 11, 1999------------------Q~~fRVER -------------------------page 11 
¦ WE LEARNED MORE FROM A3 MINUTE RECORD, BABV 
When Grace Dances Can We All Dance? 
Solllt' lat,, nights in high school. aflcr thn housn parti1's had IJroknn up and llw all-agPs duh had playPd /\c,, ol' llilSt' OIH' loo many Limes, my frit'nds an<i f would piki info a car and go dall('!' at TIH' l'.-nthousP, a gay dub Thorp was morn rot1m on tho <lanco floor 

Mary Margaret Nussbaum 
1111\rn, and llw d,\cjay h.icl \'P.11t11rnd lwyond tlw realms of' hass-lwavy Top 40 hits. Wn W<'lll Uwn~ Lo d,IIH'.P. Most all of' th,• group was slraight hllt-as thn say­ing goPs -11<1l narrow. 
Owr Christmas two fril'nds who w11r1' fun lo danct! with tlwn and an• run to datH'.t' with now canw out to mn. What an odd pilras1• -"nmw out." ll sounds as though tlwy strippPd off a heavy vnil and a hrighl spotlight IHI on Llwir [ine fr!a­lurPs and a l"honrs hPgan to sing. In a SPIN', that is what lrnpp1i1wd. Th1iy arn hq~i1111i11g to spPak tlw Lruth about who tlwy am and it is fr1'Pi11g. Wr~ makP a toasl: "llnn•s to low, 'not dictatnd but d10sP11. · Ilnn•s to t.lw wondrous ways Iha! thPy an• growing rnnfidcmt in the skill (;1111 fashimwd llll'm." 
If I wPni lo introduct• you lo my friends, you would llHWl a good looking guy will! an Pasy smile• who likns ravns and is a giflPd sci1•11list. Ym1 would mmit an athlnt­ir girl who t·an s1wak Spanish llunnlly and who makt•s you laugh just hnaring lrnr laugh. You would nw<'l two pPopk who lovn (;ud and lovP life and lovi, lovP. You would lllf'l'l Lwo gays. By virtwi of llwir sPxual orim1Lation tlwy would bn fornign­1•rs: nlinn: ollwr al tlw Universily ol' Notrn DamP. 
window is cracked and it's a starry night and you'rn coming back from a concnrt a rity away (you play thn obon, hn wails on 
t.rumpnt). You arn silting clos11 (so closn!) to llw boy that you get drunk off ofyou love so much or Ln thP. girl who givP.s you the rhi!ls. They rnach for your hancL You nwlt: lus11 your words; sing inside. 
Fwrything is right with !lw W()rfd. You walk nil' that bus and iutu your housP. and collapse into a b11autiful, cooing lrnap. 
If you am likr most Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, you am straight aml the nr~xt day is easy. You proclaim your love lo your two dnarnst fricmrls who sprc\tlll llm rww. juicy word and by thn noxl wnc•k, your mother is tPasing you and rnaylw you hlush. You stretch into this rlnlicious, nnw bning-a snxual bning -and ah, the skin lits. 
ll' you ,ll"i' gay. it is not so oasy. Why do you think so many gay lcenagors commit suicide'? Why do you 
Hay (tlw Indigo Girls). Wn do not havn room for the over 750 membnrs oJ'(;AI.;\ ((;ay and Lnsbian Alumni). Wn do not have room for Father David Garrick. Wn do not havo room for my dflar fritmds (and look around, for yours). 
We have a pincP. of paper instnad. Wn havc Uw "Spirit of Inclusion." It is an elo­qtwnt stalnmPnt and, if' WP wnrn sainl.ly creatures lhat had no need for law, it would be more than enough. But Notre Damn knows we fall short and bnlieves in thn power of law, lo punish and lo teach (du 1.ac is a thick book). The administra­tion finch, where one can hang postnrs in a hall worthy of a law. Why is a binding non-discrimination clause not" Arn wn worrind, as Professor Charles Hice would argue\ about hiring homoscxual H./\.'s? (Does sexual orientation have anything to do with bning a H.A.?) 
If "sexual morality" Wfl!'n such a press­ing issue why did the University let two 
'THE SPIRIT OF INCLUSION, IS ONLY THAT, SPIRIT 
-VANITY OF VANITIES, VAPOR OF VAPORS, THE AIR THAT PUFFS UP AND LEAVES THOSE OF US WHO NURTURE HOPE DEFLATED. IT TREATS THE GAYS AND LESBIANS OF THIS FAMILY, OUR FAMILY, AS SPIR­ITS -THOSE 3/5 PHANTOMS THAT MUST TIPTOE THROUGH THEIR IRISH DAYS.' 

think Notrn Dame students chonsci to rrnnain in the dosnl'? Bncause wlrnn they fall in love! and singing is in order pp,ople grow quint and still. Suddnnly they are difforent, ollmr. wrong. 
ls it possibhi that we am wrong? It is, aftnr all. vnry easy to get confused hem. It is very easy at the University of Notre Dame, to think thal the Body of Christ is uppnr-mirldlc-class, white, straight and accused rapists graduate without rncom­pnnse last year? Why did the Univnrsity transfer a convicted rapist to another sr.hool with no more than a slap on the wrist and a clean record regarding the trail of horror and heartache he lnft? Is "scxual morality" the issue here'? 
In a 1997 statement President Edward Malloy, C.S.C. writes that "The phrase 'snxual orientation' sometimes docs not Sodomilos was one ol' gross inhospitality. Whal arn wn to mak(1 ol' that? i\rn wn not bning grossly inhospitablt' to t.hn gay and lcsbian sturl1mts of' Notrn Damn and Saint l\fary's by not allowing thrnn rncognition" If thny am. as t.he Spirit of Indusion says. "sojourners no longnr," thnn why is them no room at this inn? 
So this is what we arP lnfl with, a policy, a paper. The Spirit of' Inclusion, is only that. spirit -vanity of vanitins. vapor or vapors, the air that puffs up and leavos thosn of us who nurturn hopn c]plJatnd. It trnats tlw gays and lnsbians of' this family, our l'amily, as spirits -llwsi\ :{/;i phan­toms that must tiploP through t.lwir Irish days. 
It. cannot be m1forcP<l as law and it can­not. I.each as law. So what. do wo havn? .Jokes about gnrbils and Zahm and a trun pnrv(irsity -this coarsn voyn11rism into how othnrs lovn. Thn Spirit or Inclusion is not good enough. Now what shall wr\ do? "The just man justices," llopkins writes. Tim just man doP.s not simply prnach or posn for divnrsn looking photo shoots. The just man acts. 
The nrnmbnrs of Bight lfoason arn cor­rnct when they argue that il is pitiful to change Univi-1rsity policy Imcausn thosn fearsome gales of the sncular world am blowing. We am being draggnd kicking and screaming to thn rnalizalion that w11 arn not only anachronistic, we arn wrong. The Faculty Snnatn, thn Student S1\mttn and the /\cad1-m1ic Council havn all votnd to ,12ass tlm non-discrimination dausn. The Associated Prnss is knnping tabs. A hnadlinn in tlrn London Tinrns mads "Catholic collegn refusns Lo ban discrimi­nation against honrnsnxua!s." GnorgPl.own is ahmid or us, so is Boston Collngo, St. Thomas. St. Louis ... pl1opln an' b1iginning to talk. Openly homosexual scholars pass us by. Will it affect our ratings? 
Who cams? We shouldn't change because "everyone nlsn is doing it." Wn should have been, as a Catholic Univnrsity committnd to thn Gosplll, thnjirst school 
to adopt a non-discrimination clausn. 


lips, his hump or n spill!\ ii is not so vory hard to Int him lie in b1•d colter.ling snri•s. It is not so vnrv hard to think that 1wrhaps he would bl' ·1rnttnr off if he wnrc dm1d. It is not SIJ vnry hard. Wlwn you pausn and imagitrn, and looking into him sen yours1•II' rdkch!d -you sn11 hc's a vnlnrnn rnturning l'rom war and his sw1•1!tlrnart's ther!i and Im has big drP.ams -tlw11 perhaps you'll dncicle lo lingHr. Sit 
hy his sidt!, look inlo his cataract-cloudy nycs. Slay a whil,i. 
lsn· l thal part or tlrn homophobia on this ,·ampus'l Wn liv1i in sud, a tndmolog­kal age that wn want lo rcdur.c every­thing Lo nquations: /\hsc~nlHll rathnr and domi1w1iring motlwr + unfortunate genes 
+ inlhmnrn of vacuous pop culturn = p1!dophiln 1wrwrl litg. That's not good cmm,gh. That's not cvtm human. 
This is h111nan: You·m in the backsnat of a sdmol bus; you aru I'.{ ynars old; lhn nrthodonturnd. It is easy to get confuscd her,\, to belicv11 that love is only for the 'lucky and the strong.' But we all walk across Urn same campus, and in tlm mid­dh1 ofit there is Jesus. llis arms are opnn. "Vcnite ad me omncs," the statue reads -come to me all. Arn we rr:iady to accnpl surh a radical command'' 
Apparently not. Last week in London lhc Board of Trustees reallirmed the clan­dnstinc cfocision of tho Board of' Fellows and volnd down the non-discrimination clausn. 
On this campus of 1,250 acres and over 100 buildings them is not a single room lhat is open to gay and lesbian students. We would not have aroom for Susan H. Anthony, or Martina Navritalova, or Oscar Wilde, or Walt Whitman, or Jodie Foster, or l.ennardo da Vinci or Frieda Kahlo or James OP.an or for Emily Saliers and Amy admit a distinction between sexual orinn­lation and tlm manner in which people live out llrnir orientation -a distinction that is critkal to us as a Catholic institu­tion.'' So it is not the sinner, right. but the sin? Then why did Father Garrick, a celi­bate, homosexual Priest !cave'? 
It' wo could agrne that homosnxual acts in a monogamous relationship were a sin. which we cannot, then who would bo so blameless as to doserve a room to mP.et in? Would Alcoholics Anonymous? I lind to my panmts and I will lie again. could I meet in a room? 
In discussions of homosexuality the story of Sodom and Gommorah is invoked like some magic incantation. It is also poorly interpreted. Most Scripture schol­ars agrcn that though homosexual rape was Laking place there (mad: rape. not consensual sex) the real sin ofthe • going to call up my rrnwly 'outnd' friends. I am going to bring a fun follow to dancn with and I am going to tnl! thnrn to 
!!r!1~g l~wi~. honnys. We'll ~lri1~k a toast: 
I. Lha1m! put on our swmgmg shons and boogi,i down. Until tlrnn I am going lo try to listP.n to those ctnrna! chords, the 01111s that sing of' lovn, of kairos, of the awn­somn name, 'I am.' I am going lo listnn lo 
W.11. Audnn who writes "I know nothing save what evnryone knows. that if thnre when Grace dances, I should dance.'' Will you please join mc'? 
Mia Nussbaum is a sophomore />LS and Hnglish major li11ing in l/oward flail . .'-ihe may be reached al mnussba2@darwi11./zelios.nd.ed1t. lier col­umn runs e1,ery other Thursday. 
The 1Jiews expressed in this column are those <>fllze author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
C s 


page 12----------------------------OTHE ---------------Thursday, February I1, 1999
BSERVER 




THE MANY FACETS 
Valentine's Day: Contrived Holiday or Historic Tradition? 
By JENELLE WILLIAMS 
Scene Writer 
Valnntine's Day -is it a contrived l1ulitlay constructed by corporate .l\nrnrica -to prey upon the hearts uf' the lonely and to r1)ap profit from thosn involved in rnlationships? 
Actually, tho story o!' Valentine's Oay dates back Ion~ before Hallmark. llnrshey Kisses or even capitalism existed. It has strong ties to lilerature, Christianity and thn Victorian Era. Its history stretches back all the way to the Homan Empirn. It began in the third crmtury. 
Once upon a time. in the grnat city of Bonw. there liv1id an Emperor by the name of Claudius the Cruel. During the years of his reign, the 260s, multiple wars plagued the Homan Empire. /\s the fighting contin­ued year after year. and more and more men wern lost, Claudius began to summon citizpns to battle. 
Manv Homans. however, were less than enthusiastic about this forced cnlistnwnt. The l!mperor dec.ided.,that the reason for this lack or patriotism was love. It was true that those with loved ones did not wish lo leave their sweethearts lwhind, and married men rngretted leaving their families. 
Soon, there were too few men to right. Thus, Claudius, living up lo his title. ordered that no marriages be CC'lebratcd and that all engagements Im term in at11d. Many Ro mans left their loved ones, heading off to war in 
sorrow. Many maidens consequently died ol' grief. unable to live with a broken heart. 
Near the palacu or the Emperor, there was a gorgeous teruple, where there presided a priest by the name of Valentine. Tim Romans flocked lo Valentine. for Urny loved him dearly. 
Soon after Claudius issued his com­mand, Valentine began to disol.Jey the law. One f'ine day, a young couple came lo Valentine, wishing nothing more than to be joined in holy matri­mony. Since the good priest was opposed to the crunl order, he secret­ly wf'd tlrn two in f'ront of tlrn sarrnd ~!tar. The news soon spread through­out tlrn pHople. The next day another pair sought his aid. Then another, and another. Valentine was the friend of' lovers across Rome. 
It was not long before the Emperor got word of Valentine's defiance. He immediatHly summoned his personal soldiers and sont thorn for the priest. 
Valentine was dragged from the temple and imprisoned. It was in prison that he befriended the blind daughtc>r of the jailer. It is believed that Valentine was able to cure tlw young girl with prayer. Austerius, the captor. and the Antirn family convert­ed to Christianity. The Emperor was furious with the incredible powers of the priest. 
Claudius had Valentine tortured, beaten and beheaded on Feb. 14, 270. Supposedly, Valentine and the young woman fell madly in love after he healed. Before his gruesome death, he reportPdly signed her a note, "From your Valentine," 
Until 200 vears after the accounts of Valentine's death at the hands of Emperor Claudius II, the Homan feast of" Lupercalia was celebrated on Feb. 
15. This feast was held in honor of one of the many Roman gods, Faun us, who watched over shepherds and I.heir nocks. One of the many customs associated with the spring fflstival included a lotlery where Roman maid­ens placed their names tri be drawn by young men. The girl accepted the love of the man who drew her namn for a year or longer. 
When Christianity became firmly established. priests wanted the peopln to put asidn their old heathnn gods. But, they did not wish the peopl11 to abolish their customs, feasts, and sports. So, they renamed Lupercalia after Saint Valentine. 
The earliest recognition of our rur­re nt celebration of Valentine's Day began during the Middle Ages, partic­ularly in France and England. It was believed Lhat halfway through thc month of FPbruary, the birds began to pair, especially lovebirds. In Clrn1H·er's Parliament of Foules, it is written: 'Tor this was send of" Seynt Valentynn's Day Whan every foul cometh ther to choose his mate." 
For this mason, the day was viewed as special to lovers and a proper occa­sion for writing love letters and s1:nd­ing love tokens. Both French and British literature allude to this prac­tice. 

The Parliest cards and pomns can lw traced back to 1415. when Duke Charles of Orl11ans. wrote to his wifo from the Tower of London where lw was held prisoner after being cap­tur<'d in the battle of' /\gincourt. Those poems remain among tlrn royal paJH1rs in tho British Musnum. Flowers appeared about 200 y11ars latcr, dur­ing the linw of 11,rnry IV of' Franco. One year his daughter lrnld a party in honor of St. Valentine. Each lady received a bouquet. of flowPrs from tlrn man closignatecl as her valnntino. 
Thn Victorian nra brought mass pro­duction printing t!'chnology and sym­bols such as clH•rubs. cupids and hearts. Flm-vers lwgan to n•placc• r<'li­gious icons of the holiday. Soon. chil­dren bngan making valPntinPs with doili()s and printed pir.turns. In thP 1840s, Esthnr !lowland produr.ml on!' of the first American comm1:rcial valentines, selling ov<'r $5000 worth. And the rest, is history. 
So the story of thn holiday of' lovP involves a little• mor<' than an <'vii gre1!ting card <!XPcutivP looking !'or a promotion. Tnu•, morl' than 40 mil­lion rosPs will lw givl'n this FPbruary. And 40 million or morl' cards will lw signed, sr.a!Pd and dPlivc•rPd. But tlw holiday nwans so much mon)-lovf' means so much more. It mnanl tlw lift> of Saint Valnntine. 
So try not to be~ ovnrly cynical or deprnssod. lnst1:ad, cr>Jnbratc• tlw day by showing your lov!'d ones just how murh you apprcriatP tlwm. 


TOP 5THINGS TO DO VALENTINE'S DAY 

FOR YOU SINGLES: 
5) "Snap-a-Crush" via Pangborn. 
4) Make Valentine's Day cards for your pals. 
3) Plan a movie night with your best buddies. 
2) Splurge on a tun din­ner with one of your sin­gle pals. 
1) Throw a spontaneous theme party. 

FOR YOU COUPLES: 
5) Order carnations from Pasquerilla West for that special someone. 
4) Order a Glee Club serenade with roses. 
3) Go on a romantic walk around the lakes. 
2) Enjoy a nice dinner in South Bend and a night at the movies. 
1) Plan an exciting get­away to Chicago. 

s 
OTI-IE

Thursday, rebruary 11, l 999 ------------------------page 13
BSERVER 




VALENTINE'S DAY 

STUDENTS PREPARE FOR VALENTINE'S DAY 
-


Creative options for this year's Valentine's Day a little something for everyone 
By ELLEN ANDERSON of a tape or meaningful songs. You Plan ahead, however, when consid­Valentine's Day, although widely Sn·,,.-Writrr can never go wrong with a mix of ering your dining options. Personnel mistaken as a day solely for those in ... Eric Clapton's "Wonderful Tonight" al The Emporium note that while love, can cr-rtainly be a day to cnlc­
As Valnnt.ine's Day rapidly and Depeche Mode's "Somebody." they are extending their normal brate for all of us. ap1iroadws, sludfints in tlw Notrn Tlrnsn songs eloqur-nlly ,1xpress the hours of Sunday operation from 4-10 For those singles out tlrnrc. no llanw rommunily arr quickly rnach­l'nelings many of us harbor deep p.m. and promise that their special shame comes in rounding up a i11g a slalP of panic. Although this inside of our !warts. This girt will of tlrn day will offer "something good troupe of your buddies for a day of' spi•cial day <·onws as no surprisr,, it for couples," seating is filling up at fun. Fr.b. 14 provides an excellent has a nasty ltahit of' crcwping up all 'VALENTINE'S DAY, ALTHOUGH an amazing rate. opportunity to tell those arnund you too soon 011 1w,in tlw most pn'parPd Undoubtedly, many couples will be how much you care for them in a
WIDELY MISTAKEN AS A DAY 

of' us. Un q 11 ,~ s lion ah Iy l1111 most. seen wandering around the Notre non-romantic sense. 
SOLELY FOR THOSE IN LOVE, CAN

romantic day of thn year, many Dame, Saint Mary's, and Holy Cross r;rab a group of your closest co­rPIIHtill cluolPss rngarding how to CERTAlNLY BE A DAY TO CELEBRATE campuses for the duration of the day horts for a night of movie-watching. m;tkH tlw mosl of this l10lid;1y. /\,o Sunday. An old legend states that On a serious level. a scnwning of flf'Pd to Jlllflil' -lwre am a fow s11g­FOR ALL OF us' the first gentleman or young lady "Stand By M1>." can lrn a grnat bond­g1•slio11s !hal will Lum this holiday with whom you walk around Saint ing experience, although a play­inlil somc)thing unforgnttabl1\, show your sweetheart how much Mary's Lake at Notre Dame or the through of I.he wildly popular 
Thi' old standby of sfmding 11ownrs dfort W<'lll into tlrn making his or bridge at Saint Mary's is the person "Swingers" will leave you with a and candy to that spocial sorneomo is her present. you will marry. month long array of phrases to a tinwlcss classic which will nnver to Them is no grnater way to remind If you are at that state in your liven up your general rapport.. go out of style. l!owever, tlw morn that special someone how much you relationship, why not snag your sig­So no matter how you opt to s1wnd ­1.i111P and effort put inLo finding just lovn him or her than dining in a local nificant other and go for that leg­your Valentine's Day, just nmrnmhnr tile right way to 1•xpress your admi­rcstaraunt. cndarv stroll. If' not, rest assured that that this holiday conws but oncn ration and affoclion. Llw helter. The arna ofrers a wide gambit of Lhal tl1ere are many other beautiful a yr-ar. Make Lhe most of' il. 
;\ thoughtful way to t<,II your sig­plac,1s at which to cat; the most pop-paths without such an attached stig­riifir:;rnt utlrnr how mt1ch lw or shn 11 lar of thesn ror tho holiday are ma th111 will serve the purposP quito mPans iu your lifn is llrn com1>ilatinn Tipµecanoe and The Emporium. well. 
page 14 The Observer• SPORTS Thursday, February Jl, 1999 
-
¦ MEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL 

'Out-of-sync' Terrapins manage win 
As.o,;i:ued Pre.s 
RALEIGH, N.C. 
It was closer to a halftime score for No. 7 Marvlarid, hut tho run-and-gun Teri:apii1s \vill gladly pocket their 63-50 victo,; ry over North Carolina State on Wednesday night. 
Maryland 121-4, 9-J Atlantic Coast Confere1ice} was held 24 points under its scoring aver­age, but had enough offense dovvn the stretch When it count­ed to b,mt the Wolfpack for the 10th straight timr in the regu­lar season. · 
The Terrapins played without senior center Obinna Ekozic, who ruptured his light Achilles' tendon in practice Tuesday night and is lost for the season. 
Terence Morris picked up the slack, scoring 17 points and grabbing a career-high 16 rebounds. Kenny Inge lod N.C. State 115-9, 5-71 with 14 points. 
N.C. State trailed by as many as 13 points in the first half after shooting a miserable 23 percent, but closed within one twi~e in the second half, tho last time with 12:03 left on two free throws by Anthony Gnmdv. 
But then shoddy ballhandling did the Wolfpack in again against the Terrapins. Two turnovers led to slam dunks by Laron Profit and St.eve .· Francis -their first baskets of the sec­ond half -as Maryland took a 43-35 lead with 7 1/2 mmutes left. 
Inge made two.freethrows before the Terrapins increased their lead· to· double digits as Danny Miller,. Morris and Profit scored on layups. . 
The Wolfpack missedl9of their first 22 shots to fall behind 24-11, going through stretches of eight minutes and 5 1/2 minutes without baskets in a putrid shooting display that matched a season-low point total for a half. 
Justin Gainey. coming off a career-high 28 points on a per­fect 7-for-7 shooting from the field and 10-for-10 from the line in a weekend win over Clemson. was shut· out in the opening 20 minutes, 
N.C. State didn't approach· the inept ballhandling it dis­played in a 94-48 loss at Maryland on Jan. 10 that resul~ed ih a 3Hurnover game, but the team's half-court offense· was· totally out of sync as Maryland applied trapping pressure. 
However, the Terrapins coutdn'fput theWoltpack away as N.C. State closed the half with a 9-2 run to trail 26-20. One ofMatylanrl's main threats canw rrom an utilikely souh:e -ros~rve Brian Watkins who came into tho game with two points in ACC play but chipped in with seven in the lit-st half as Mike Mardesich got into foul trouble. 
MARQUETIE 62. No. 4 CINCINNATI 58 
Brian Wardle scored 19 points and freshman Oluoma Nnamaka's clutch plays in the final minute helped Marquette to a stunning 62-58 upset of No. 4 Cincinnati on Wednesday night. 
Nnamaka's three-point play with 39 seconds left broke a 54-54 tie and his free throw with 9.1 seconds loft provided the finat margin; 
The Bearcats (21-3. 8-3 Conference USA) lost consecu­tive games for the first time in four seasons, They also lost Saturday at DePaul, 61-60 ht overtime. 
After Cincinnati's Steve Logan miss.ed. a 3-poinW. with 23 seconds left, Wardle was fouled and rnade two. free throws to.give•the Eagles (12­12, 4-8fa 59-54lead.Butthe Bearcats gota quick basket· from Kenyon Martin and called a timeout with 17 seconi:ls left. 
Cordell Henry was fouled with 12 seconds left and made both shots for a 61-56 lead, but Cincinnati's Micha.el Horton was open for a dllllk at 10 sec­onds to again pull the Bearcats within three points. 
Nnamaka, a 6-foot-7, 213­pound forward from Sweden who cracked the starting lineup last month, was fouled and missed his first shot before making his second. 
The Eagles trailed 37-30 early in the second half but trimmed the Bearcats' lead to 45-44 with nine minutes left and would have taken the lead if not for five straight baskets by Ryan Fletcher. 

¦ WOMHfS Cm LEGE BASKETBALL 


No. 9 Knights calm the 'Canes 
Associated Press 

MIAMI 
Tammy Sutton-Brown and Linda Miles scored 15 points apiece and No. 9 Rutgers staved off a frantic second-half rally by Miami to defeat the llurriearws 66-57 Wednesday ni~ht. 
Hutgors, tho nation's top defensive team, held Miami to :~8.!i pi>rccnt shooting to give the Scarlet Knights (21-4, 13-1 Big East) their 12th win in their last I 3 games. 
Miami (11-11, 6-8), losers of five of its last six games, went on a 19-6 run to cut the lead to 52-48 with 3:11 remaining. 
Tasha PointPr scored on a slicing drive and Miles got a steal and a fast-break layup boosted to make it 56-48 with 
2:23 left. 

Rutgers converted snven of nine free throws down the stretch to keep Miami at bay. 
Kym !lope led Miami with 17 points and eight rebounds and .Jennifor Jordan added 15 points. Gina Graziani had 11 assists. 
HutgPrs led 4h-29 with l2:34 left following consecutive bas­kets by Shawnetta Stewart. Jordan scored six points during a 12-0 burst, chopping the deficit to 46-40 with 6:45 remaining. 
Rutgers went 7:04 without scoring, before Sutton-Brown's layup and free throw boosted thn Knights' lead to 49-40 with 
5:33 remaining. 

No. 13 TEXAS TECH 74, TEXAS A&M 52 
Angie Braziel scored 25 points and Rene Hanebutt led a second-half surge Wednesday night as No. 13 Texas Tech beat Texas A&M 74-52. 
The Lady Raiders (20-3, 9-2 
Big 12) led 31-27 at halftime. 
Hanebutt scored 11 points dur­
ing a 16-4 surge in the first 
5:23 of the second half. 

Melinda Schmucker and 
Hanebutt hit back-to-back 3­
pointers, and Schmucker•~ 
steal led to a layup by 
Hanebutt that finished off the 
rally. 

Hanebutt finished with 20 
points and Schmucker had 11. 
Kera Alexander led Texas 
A&M /7 -14, 2-9) with 17 points 
and Prissy Sharpe added 11. 
The victory was Texas Tech's nighth straight at home. The Lady Aggies have lost eight of 

Junior guard Shawnetta Stewart gave Rutgers a 46-29 lead last night on two consecutive baskets in the second half as the No, 9 Scarlet Knights downed Miami by a final score of 66-57. 
nine. Atlantic Coast Confnrencc) led Texas A&M led 12-7 after 22-21 at the half and slowly 
6:21. But Tech pulled into a tie pulled away in the second 20 at 17 and then made its next minutes. North Carolina State six shots. (14-9, 7-6) turned the ball over 
32 times, 19 in the lirst half. 
No. 18 VIRGINIA 67, Erin Stovall added 13 points NORTH CAROLINA STATE 53 for the Cavaliers, who were a dismal 1-for-13 from 3-point 
DeMya Walker scored 22 range. Elena Kravclwnko had points, grabbed nine rebounds 10 points. and had four steals Wednesday Tynesha Lewis Ind the night as No. 18 Virginia beat Wolfpack with 19 points and 10 North Carolina State 67-53. rebounds, whik Summer Erb 
The Cavaliers (17-6, 10-3 had 12 points. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office. 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
laptop pc computer ...ethernet. cd  
L.....-..._N_oT_1_cE_s__.JI......_-w;_'AN_T_E_o__.ll.___F_o_R_RE_N_T___.  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  rom and floppy drive. pentium processor. modem. Perfect for writ­ Fax it fast at THE COPY SHOP in LaFortune. FAX Sending and  
219-291-7153  ing papers and web access from  Receiving:  631-FAX1  
Spring Break Bahamas Party  CRUISE SHIP EMPLOYMENT  WALK TO SCHOOL  your room or anywhere.  2 yrs old.  
Cruise!5Nights $279I1ncludes  Workers earn up to  2-6 BEDROOM  $550. call matt @273-9795.  •• ATTENTION LESBIAN. GAY.  
Meals & Free Parties!Awesome  $2,000+/month (w/lips & bene- STARTING $185  FLORIDA SPRING BREAK  BISEXUAL AND QUESTIONING  
Beaches.Nightlife!Departs From  fits). World TravellLand-Tour jobs up  MONTH/PERSON  guitar effects processor. Boss ME·  STUDENTS •• Original student  
Floricta1Cancun & Jamaica $399!  to $5,000-$7,000/summer.Ask us  232-2595  SANDPIPER-BEACON BEACH  8; heralded as best midpriced  group will hold SUPPORT meeting  
springbreaktravel.com  howl  RESORT PANAMA CITY BEACH  effects board. chorus. dist, rev.  Thurs. 2/11. Confidentiality will be  
1-800-678•6386  517-336·4235 ExtC55842  NICE HOMES FOR NEXT  FLORIDA FROM $159 PER PER­ wha, harmonizer. and many other  respected as always. Call info line  
SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND  SON  effects. great cond w/ case. $200.  for details 236-9661.  
Spring Break Panama City  SUMMER CAMP JOBS  8,6.4.3.BEDROOM 2773097  3 POOLS 1 INDOOR POOULAZY  call matt at 273-9795  
$129!Boardwalk Room w/Kitchen  LAND/WATER SPORTS  RIVER AIDE HUGE BEACHSIDE  silly girl ... don't you know anything?  
Next To Clubsl7 Parties-Free  ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS/  '99-'00 LOADED!6 Bedrm. $800  HOTTUB SUITES UP TO 10 PEO­ 
Drinks!Dayiona $149!Soulh Beach  LAKE PLACID  mo. 273-0482/234-3831  PLE FREE INFO 1·800-488-8828  Lawnboy snowblower. excellent  cMc rules'  
$129!Cocoa Beach $149'  VISIT US www.raquettefake.com  WWW. SANDPIPERBEACON.COM  condition.  
springbreaktravel.com  1-800-786-8373  5 & 6 BDRM HOMES. 1999/2000  Best offer. Call at 277-3501 (even).  BR-siily boy. you need to halluci­ 
1-800-678-6386  SUMMER OR NOW.NEAR CAM­ nate more...  
GET THE HECK OUT OF HERE1  ADOPT:Help us make our family complete.Let us give your newborn  PUS.FURN.GILLIS PROPER· TIES.2726551  Room $275/mo in large house 2 miles from ND. 246-0704  TICKETS  How did this change on me?  
Mexico.the Caribbean or Jamaica  a loving.happy home and a wonder­ 
- $250 r/tOther worldwide destina· tions cheap.Book tickets on line www.airtech.com or (212)219-7000.  ful future.Expenses paid.Please call Lucille and Michael 1-800-468­9311.  HOUSE OR ROOMS AVAIL NOW.272-6551  FOR SALE  BOB DYLAN . WWF ringside ROD STEWART... FLOOR ' SEA TS... 272-7233 ..  Someone's got another thing coming to them real soon ...  
House for Rent.  Why could she see us doing some­ 
How Green is Green?  Customer Service Rep for a major insurance company In South Bend.  Two Blocks from campus. Available in June for Summer.  NEW Rates Phone Cards 282 min.$20 call 258-4805  PERSONAL  thing like to1at?  
Work in lrelanct on a Student  Excellent communication skills  August for fall. Dishwasher.  Because we're bad boys  
Work Abroad Program and find out'  needed. Property/Casualty license  Washer/Dryer, full basement, large  Beautiful brass bed,queen size.with  '''SEND YOUR SWEETIE A  
t  Call 1-888-Council and ask for  preferred but willing to train. 10 hrs/wk to become FT.  backyard. and off street parking. MONITORED SECURITY SYSTEM  orthopedic mattress set and deluxe lrame.New.never used.still in plas­ VALENTINE IN THE OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDSII!  It's coming to a head real soon.  
Tom.  Call John al (800)624-3698 ext  INCLUDED!! KITCHEN BEING  tic.$235  VALENTINE ADS WILL APPEAR  We love the Spice Girls!  
248  REMODELED THIS SPAING1CAIi  219-862-2082.  FRIDAY. FEBRUARY 12. DEAD·  
289-4712  LINE IS 2 pm.FEBRUARY 11.""  No comment  

._h_e_O_b-se-rv"""e..,r_•_S_P_O_R_T_S______~---------------p-ag_e_l_5~7 T 
Thursday, Febrnary 11, 1999 _________________________________________________;___:__ 
¦ MEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Huskies win 21st straight against Boston College, 66-50 .._ 
Associated Press 
11/\HTFOHD. c:onn. 

Khalid r-:1-/\rnin scnred I'J points as No. 2 Connecticut st.11mhl1Hl and f'umblml its way t11 a sloppy Ui-50 victory owr Boston College on Wncl1wsday night, tlm lluskies' 21st st.rnighl win over the Eagles. 
Tlw ga.ml' rnarknd thn rnturn of vConn's lm1ding scor­cr l!id1ard Ilamilton, who sat out tlw last two games with a clc1\p thigh bruise. /\ rnsty Ilamilton was 4-of'-15 from 111<1 lit-Id, getting all of his nine points in tlrn lirst lwff. 
Tht> l•:aglcs, mnanwhiln. will lw without sophonHlr<\ KP1111y Ilarl1\y l"or tlwir 1H\Xl game. Thn (i-fiiot-5 guard was ejectod in the first half for throwing a punch at I lamilton and acr.ording to NCM rules must sit out the next game. 
Ice cold shooting that began in the first half for both tcarns, never really warmed up. Uconn shot 40 porcent (23-of-58), while the Eagles shot 36 p<>mmt (21-of-56). 
The Iluskies (21 -1, 12-1 Big East) made up the differ­nnce on Uw foul line, hitting 17 of 28. Boston Collegn (6-15, 3-10) didn't get to the line often and was just 2~of-6. 
The Eaglns opmrnd the gamn with a basket hy Brian Boss 5:{ snronds in. El-Amin tind it with two at 18:35 and thon both tnams went ice cold for t.lrn next 2 1/2 minutes. Tim Iluskies missed their next llve shots until a 
r.==========================;, layup hy Jakn Voskuhl put the Huskins back 
BRAII IAGJ-1 F4'4l1-~ · 811-LIARDI 
Student Special-·· 1/2 price ($I.BO/hr.) 3..s pm IVl@n· fri. 

28 Tables r,. 8. 9. 10. & 12 feet) 

1202 S. Lafayette . (go west on Eddy and go South on Lafayette) ph. 233-2323 
on top. 

Tlrn 1:agles missnd s11V('ll straight beforn IlarlPy mad1~ two frpc throws to Lie it. Uconn rngai1wd tlrn kad for good on a Inaner by llamilton at 14:00 that knyml a 15-7 run. Boston Collcign pulled within thrcr. on a 3­pointcr by Hoss with 2:24 lnll to make it 28­
22. Hashamnl Jonr.s had thron points in a 5-0 run to give tlrn lluski1is a :B-25 halllime. UConn led by as many as 17 points in the second half. 
llarl!\y was ,ijnctNI for throwing t.hc punch with just under night. minut.ns Intl in the lirst half. 
lie and llamilton wnrn tind up artcr a rnbouml. I larnilton was caJh,d for a foul and as they dism1tanglt>d I larley thrnw a punch. 
Tlw Ifuskins outrnboundcd the Eagles 49­2'). led by Kevin FnH\man's IO hoards. 

RESERVED TICKETS 514 

SENIORS $13 WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 10,7:30 PM 
All STUaENTS $11 

·THURSDAY fEBRUARY 11, 7:30 PM 7 
• FRIDAY, FE0RUARY 12. :30 PM 
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 7:30 PM 
TICKETS ARE AVAILABLE AT LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER TICKET OFFICE. MASTERCARD ANO VISA ORDERS CALL 631-8128 

Please Recycle the Observer 

BOOK SEARCH 

• 
Used, rare and out-of-print · boob 

• 
Initial cost of $2.00 

• 
Nationafly -circulated ad 

• 
Success rate of 50% 

• 
Time Required: 2 months iiJ 


ERASMUS BOOKS 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232-8444 


page 16 The Observer• SPORTS Thursday, February 11, l 999 
¦ OLYMPICS ¦ NBA 




Romney to head Allen re-signs with Bucks 
SLOC committee 
Associated Press 

t'>IILWAUKEE 
IIP got game. Hay Allen's got 
smarts, too. 

/\IIPn, who starn·d alongside 
Denz!:'l Washington last ynar in 
Spike Len's "lie Got Ganw," 
signC'd a six-year. $70.9 mil­
lion. contract extrnsion with 
the MilwaukPe Bucks on 
Wednesday. 

Tlw pact is rwarly identical 
to those rPccntly autograplwd 
by fellow rising stars Kobe> 
Bryant. :\llen Iverson, Shanwl' 
Abdur-Ilahim and Antoine 
Walker. 
Tlw big difforencp? 

Allrn won't havn to fork ornr 
a 4 pflrcent commission -or a 
cool $2.83().()00 -to an ag!'nt. 
"I don't need somPbody 
skimming millions olT the top." 
said Allfln. who chos<> instPacl 
to pay a team of lawyers, a 
business manag<'r and an 
arrountant at an hourly ratn of' 
up to $500. · 

Allen negotiatPd dirnctly 
with team owner llcrb Kohl, 
the senior senator from 
Wisconsin. becausi, the NBA's 
new labor accord sets limits on 
what players ran narn based · 011 years of service. 
Allrn said Kohl agrnPd to pay 
him the maximum salary 
allowed a third-year player by 
the new collective bargaining 
agreement: $9 million to start, 
with annual raises of 12.5 pPr­
cent. He signed thn six-year, 
$70.9 million deal Wednesday. 
That made Allen the highest­
paid player in team history, 
surpassing the $68.25 million 
contract that Glenn Robinson 
received as the top pick in the 
1994 NBA draft. 

Allen is not only wealthy, 
he's wise. said Bucks coach 
George Karl. 

Karl contends that agents 
are super11uous now for rook­
ies, who have a salary scale, 
and stars such as Allen. 

"There's got to be a move­
m en t maybe from agent to 
business advisor to marketing 
advisor to rnerchandisf'f to 
Associated Press 
SALT Li\KE CITY 
Olympic·s organizPrs scram­hlc•cl to smooth tho way for Mitt llmrnwv lo be chosPn Thursday as tlw· chid of a commiltP;\ badlv bruisPd bv scandal. 
Tl1P Boston vc•nturn capitalist, \\'ho is till' dwirl' or Gov. \1ik(' Lt•avitl and Salt LakP Organizing Commitl1w chair­man HolH\rt Carff, met with mPmbPrs of a hastily organized sPll'ction committee Tunsday night. 
That came hours aftPr the conm1itt('P h•artwd the dt>tails of how bid cmnmittPe exPrutivfls Pngagrd in ttnPthical conduct in sppnding morP than $1 million to rurrv favor with 24 lntPrnational Olympic Committl'o mnmlwrs. 
Homrn\y mf'l \-V('(lnesday with SUH: board nwmbnrs who will be askml to hirP him as tlrn new f'hief executive officer of the group staging tlw 2002 Winter Garnes. 
"lle·s the sort of franchise player that can restore the integrity to an institution that has gone awry," said Bill llybl, president of the\ U.S. Olympic Committoe. 
"He's fabulous." said board member Henrv Marsh. "As one board membe1: said. it's a mira­cle to get him." 
A Republican who unsuccess­fully challenged Ted Kennedy for his U.S. Senate seat in 1994, the 51-year-old Romney is the son of the late George Romney, governor of Michigan. 
Marsh was one or a handful or board trustees asked by Garff on Tuesday to peruse applica­tions or those seeking the top SLOC job, an effort to show that the board gave attention to can­didates othPr than Romney. 
There has been growing pres­sure on Leavitt and Garff by board members and con­stituents upset there was no exhaustive search as promised by Leavitt and (;arfl' last month. 
A we!ik ago, CarlT concnded a search could be short-circuited if a uniwrsally approved candi­date wrre found. Hornn,)y already was tlw dear choice by then, but Garff and Lravitt have declinrd to say so. 
NoteTakers Wanted $200-$1500/class! 
Post your lecture notes on the Internet 
SIGN UP ON-LINE@ 
www.STUDY24~7.com 

-
There's a whole world 
out there. Explore it with Contiki (/..,,,.p l.c{els. (,~e,-1 t.dv,ce. 
Nice pstop/,, 
London $200 Madrid $234 Vienna $286 Paris $226 
Fu•• 1r11 from lnd1an.ol11. each w-q baud on • RT p1,u~ha11, f.aru do not inclvd• taxu.which Clh total bet..,...en 13 and $i0, lnt1 Student 10 m., be requ1r-.d. fare, u-e valid br depanuru In Han::h and ue u.1bject to chanr. Reurlctions apply_ Cal! for our low domu.tic lar•• and faru to other world wid• den,nations. Oon"t lorpt to order )'OUr Eurailpus! 
illm@u Travel :--­
OE£: Council on lnterBlllional Educational Exchange 

l-800-2Council 
www.counciltravel.com
-

If you call Pittsburgh home THINK PITT FOR SUMMER COURSES! 
University of Pittsburgh SUMMER SESSIONS 1999 
• 
Large selection of transferable courses 

• 
Sessions begin in May, June and July 

• 
Day, evening and Saturday classes 

• 
Easy registration by mail, fax, or in person 

• 
Affordable tuition for PA residents 


Registration Begins February 22 Call: (412) 383-8600 E-Mail: summer+@pitt.edu For on-line schedule and course ...lir.. descriptions, visit our Web site at-r 
"We looknd at stacks, dc11:(ms or l'PSU!l1('S." Marsh said. 
But the group also met -and was wowPd by 11omnny, Marsh said. 
"Ile has the perfoct busiirnss background. Jlp knows how to takP major businrssns in trou­b l P and turn tlrnm around," Marsh said. "Jle's trPmendously charismatic and lw will lw a trnnrnndous motivating force l'or the staff and gnt them going again." 
Homrwy's company. Bain Capital Inc., sprcializes in buy­ing companies and turning them around. Domino's was a recent acquisition. 
Boger Black, anotlwr trustPP at the nwding, confirmed the group looked at resumPs and met with Hornnny. Neitlwr l\1arsh nor Black would confirm tlw selN·tion committeP will recommend hiring Homn<iy on Thursday. 
SLOC Chairman Hobert Garff 
confirmed he spent Wednesday 
introducing a candidato to 
board members. but declined l.o 
say it was Hornney. He also said 
tho selection committee will 
make its recommendation 
toward the end of Thursday's 
meeting. 
OnP businessmen who had 
been a potential candidate ­
Jon Huntsman Jr. -backed out 
aft<1r it became clear thorn 
would be no real search, he told 
The A<;sociated Press. 
lluntsman, a former ambas­
sador to Singapore and vice 
chairman of the $5 billion 
Huntsman Chemical Corp., said 
WNlnesday he also rejected 
Leavitt's request that he serve 
on SLOC's new management 
committee. 
Dave Checketts, chief execu­
tive of Madison Square Garden, 
apparently was never interest­
ed in the job and merely was 
chatting with an old acquain­
tance when he met briefly with 
Leavitt last week. 


accountant," Karl said. "l just how this was done." llorsny think Ray should be compli­said. "Basicallv it was a team mented. If he's not the first, approach. Yo\, havP a busi­he's the first I know of who ness, you have accountants has done this big a deal push­and lawyers that providP you ing aside the pressures of hir­with advice. ing a big-name agent. And I "He's the pionrN. ll<''s tlw think he's ·done it with a lot of 01w that sPt tlw stagP, "J lorsey class and style. I think lw's said. "I told him lw has to lw shown a lot of people that you ready to deal with rPquests, may not need agents." inquiriPs about this situation 
Michael Horsey, Allen's from other players. It's impor­accountant, said his client is at tant that lw bfi therP for oth­the forefront of a movement Prs. that could have a huge impact Allf'n said ho's alrPadv bePn on the league. queried about his no~agent 
"I told him that he's going to approach by rvtinnosola's Sam set the trend and people are MitchPII, "and hP said it was going to seek his advirn on real smart." 
¦
w-•---------~------.••----...----------,---------.......-------•--------.-.---r--.-----..-.--~...----i 
Thursday, h:hruary 11, 1999 
Calendar of Events 

Circle K Retreat 
Friday-Saturday, February 12-13 Michiana Christian Service Camp 
Learning to talk about Race Retreat 
Friday-Saturday, February 12-13 Lindenwood Retreat Center 
Freshman Retreat #21 
Friday-Saturday, February 12-13 St. Joe Hall 
Notre Dame Encounter Team Retreat #55 
Saturday, February 13, St. Joe Hall 


Sophomore Class Team Retreat 
Sunday, February 14, St. Joe Hall 

Rejoice! Black Catholic Mass 
Sunday, February 14, 4:00 p.m. Sorin Hall Chapel. Celebrant: Fr. Jim Lies, C.S.C. 
NDE #56 Sign-ups 
Monday-Friday, February 15-19 103 Hesburgh Library 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer (make note of time) Wednesday, February 17, 10:00 ­
10:30 p.m. Hesburgh Library Lounge. Music led by Celebration Choir, rehearsal before the Prayer Service at 8:30 p.m. 
SIXTH SUNDAY IN ORDINARY TIME 
Weekend Preslders at Baslllca Of The Sacred Heart Saturday, Febr~ary 13 
5:00 p.m. 
Rev. William A. Wack, C.S.C. 
Sunday, February 14 
10:00 a.m. Rev. James King, C.S.C. 
11:45 a.m. Rev. E. William Beauchamp, C.S.C. 
Scripture Readings 
1st Reading Sirach 15:15-20 2nd Reading 1 Corinthians 2:6-10 Gospel Matthew 5: 17-37 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


On the Road, But Not Home Yet 
---Katie Pytlak and Frank Santoni, CM '98-'99 Interns 
I frequently find myself explaining to friends and relatives how I have chosen to spend my year after graduation. My answer of "Campus Ministry Intern" receives some raised eyebrows (and given our current national situation, a few chuckles). The question then often follows, "What exactly do you do?" and "What do you then plan to do with your life?" 
My decision to stay here at Notre Dame for another year was not an easy one. l knew that I wanted to spend some time doing service, to somehow be able to share my experi­ences and gifts to uplift others. I thought I was ready to enter into the "real world," life away from the Golden Dome. Returning to Notre Dame meant being in the same place, but now a place so different, with close friends far away, no dorm community, and no longer being a student. 
As you probably realize, since I'm writing this article, I decided to return to Notre Dame. At the time, it was ultimately a leap of faith and a decision that I can now say I am grateful I chose. For not only have I had the opportunity to learn from people committed to sharing the love of God with others, but I also have been a privileged witness of seeing Christ alive within our community, encountering people who are fervently seeking, committed to a journey of faith. Certainly the road is not at all easy and sometimes we wonder if it really will lead us home. Yet, I have renewed hope, inspired by the stories we share, the questions we ponder, our willingness to risk, and our desire to seek Truth in a world where God sometimes seems very far away. 
I originally expected to learn a concrete definition for ministry. However, I find myself constantly revising this definition, enriching it with new experiences. Ministry embraces love and a giving of ourselves; it's about finding Christ in our life situations. Ministry is in an Emmaus group, where people share their daily lives and Scripture, choosing to journey on the road together. Christ is in the Confirmation class where w~ raise challenging ques­tions and yet we also seek to embrace a faith full of mystery. Ministry happens on a Freshman Retreat where we share stories of joy and struggle and our search for community. There is a Spirit that moves throughout our experiences, within our hearts, and we strive to embrace and share it. Not only now as students, or as an intern, but always as people of faith, who believe that the journey is worth the effort, the struggle, the uncertainty. 
Now when people ask me, "What do you plan to do with your life?", I'll tell them, "I'm on the road, but I'm not home yet..." ---Katie Pytlak 
By the time graduation rolled around for me in May of 1997, I chose to join the ranks of the underappreciated, underpaid teaching corps of America through ND's own Alliance for Catholic Education. After a year spent in ACE discovering I wasn't wired up the right way to be a teacher, l took the position I currently hold as Campus Ministry Intern. The yec1r 1 spent teaching kindergartners how to stop running without falling m·er had confirmed my belief that young adults are a desperately needed part of any faith community. What better place to take that belief out for a test drive than at Notre Dame, the faith community I had just begun to feel a part of before graduating. 
We hear all the time about young whippersnappers who are changing the world of high tech, sports, business, politics or entertainment with cutting edge innovation and geewhiz freshness. So why not in ministry? Why not bring some of that same innovation and fresh­ness to sharing faith and understanding our experience of God? Why shouldn't young peo­ple like me be pouring their creativity and energy into building an exciting church where faith and life are shared with equal parts joy, humor, and seriousness. I think we don't because somewhere along the line we became convinced that to do so one must possess the right answers to the right questions. And since we haven't come across too many of those answers lately, we've just politely excused ourselves from the conversation. That's a bunch of gobbledygook. 
As an intern in Campus Ministry, I've found some pretty exciting ways to enter back into that conversation. Interfaith Christian Night Prayer (Walsh Chapel, Wednesday night at 10pm) is a ministry where Christians from all faith communities are joining in prayer and worship with one another. No Greater Love (March 20), will be a day-long rally with music, prayer, and teaching. In April, the Keeping the Faith series will liven up the discussion with a conversation about faith and pop culture. I have contributed to each of these new initia­tives in valuable ways and have infused them with an attitude unavailable to my older col­leagues. 
Our voice is as valid and vital a voice in the church as any other. I'm not s,n·ing I b,n-e any more answers to life's major questions than I did when I started this cr,1zy ,1dn'nture, but I have learned that doing ministry is as good a place as any to start. Here's the great thing about ministry: It's not just reserved for the Campus Ministry Intern .it Notre D,rn1e; yo1.1 can do ministry anywhere. 
Whether you're doing service, running a business, piling on the degrees, or rese.irchin~ the summer mating piitterns of the southwestern armadillo, being active as il younh person in your faith community can be done anywhere. Don't just shop around until you find ,1 church that moves and excites you. Move and excite your church .in to a place that nourish­es everybody. The Church needs some willing whippersnappers to step up and contribute. Any takers out there? 
----Frank Santoni 
page 17 
I¦
(Z\MPUS MINISTRY 



I""'--.. ....-.. ...----------------------------,-------------------. 
page 18 The Observer• SPORTS Thursday, february 1 I, 1999 
Irish 
continued from page 24 
than a bakery on a Sunday 
morning. 
Thr bands or tbA llova defenclrrs must have SC(lmed faster than Jacki,'. Chan's as tlwy had 22 stMls. 
Although watching thP game. that at linws srnmwcl morn likP a rugby match tha 11 a baskrt.­ball game. is frustrating for !'ans. The most rrustrated in th<' .loyrP Center last night wPre in that home locker room. 
"I take crPdil for this loss per­sonally. I didn't r.onrn ready to play today," said David Gravi>s. who had scvPn turnovPrs and t,\O points in 22 minutes. "You !Jave to come ready to play everyday." 
"We make a muvc and we n'tr11nch and WI' bnck up." Mad.cod said. "Wo had two big games. IL looked like we wern picking up some tempo and some pioces arn falling." 
Thosn picecns foll last night. fell apart. 
When the Irish snatched defeat from the hands of victo­ry. one fan got a bit \'Ocal and lrnd som,~ ('hoicn words for Macl..eod. 
"I didn't hear what the guy said," MacLeod said. "Pans have tlrn right when they buy the ticket to say anything they want to say. That's part of the way it works hrre in the Unitrd States." 
But the fan's frustration came probably more from seven and a half years of' mediocrity under Macleod than one game. 
"We're trying and we're doing it the right way and wn have grnat kids," Mar.Lead said. "It's easy to sit in the stands and veil al the coach; evcrv­body·wants to coach; evnrybody has an opinion. 
"Wf' had a tough game tonight. Nobody likes that. but if you·re malty fan you don't turn on your honw team. Thl!Y ran turn on me: that's ok. I'w been in llw business a Jong tinrn." 
Last night's loss can hardly be blamed on MacLeod. He's looking for a lot of production 0111 of three 18-yi,ar-olrls and a sophomore. 
"For our young kids, we've put out some jewels lrnre." MarLcod said, defending the play of his young squad. "If pf'oplc get upset hy tlw wny we'rn battling, we had a bad game tonight, but give GPorgntown credit. W<''re doing the best we can. We have great kids a.nd they'ri, trying their tails off.,. 
With Jive ganrns remaining 011 the schedule, post-season play remains in question and a win last night on ESPN would have given the cause a big lift. There still is plenty of work to be done and the pati0nn• of Irish fans is apparently wearing thin. 
"If people want to yell and get mad nnd bent their chest n little bit, I can't stop that," MacLflod said. 
Hut Mad.cod can stop that. 
A nice run in the NIT this season would slow that. In a vear or two, when the fresh­men are older and wiser. they'll return to the Big Dance. 
The talent exists in the fresh­
man class and with some help 

on the way next season the future looks bright But will the fans wait that long? 
"It looks easy sometimes when you're sitting in the stands," MacLeod said. "I would hope that the fans would support us and not jump on us. Wl' had two super games bark to back and we have a little dip. Thny'rn kids for goodness sakPs, ~.lwy're kids, not NBA players. 
They are kids and games like tlwsc will bogin to come less and less f'rP.quent with timP and exporionce. It'll be a roller coaster with many p<;aks and vnlleys, but tlw Irish are finally headed in the right dirnction. 
"J\ real good fon is a fan who's going lo stick with you when you're doing well and when things am tough, that's a fan," MacLeod said. "Our kids have hefm criticized. I don't like that, but l can't stop that. I know our kids and we have groat kids; so for me, that's important and we're doing it the right way here our kids." 
Th0 effort has been admirable and with progress comes plenty of growing pains. 
"They are r,oming in as fresh­men; tlrny study their tails off, and they're trying to do the b<'st thev can," f10 said. "So if somebody yells sonrnthing it's not the f'irst and it's probably not going to be the last but I think it really shows where they arc, they're behind us. They're behind us, but with 
what?" 







SUMMER SERVICE PROJECT 
NATIONAL YOUTH S~01 
:·=;. _.::­

OPEN H:llllii 
1

CENTER FOR sO~1,i!91t/ca: NS PIZZA AND REFRIS -THURSDAY, Fll8:¦A 7:00 -8:00< 
,,_*f< ·.
••!,:, 

.... . -, . 
HOWl1Fflr.16S ROOM AND 80~ TUITION%c"EDIT, THREE ::~c,u" AND A,~cHANtJ:e TO SPENt>4,S!*1li,W1E :~AJ9ES ARE J~1N1¥£,2:l:1 

Thursday, i:ehrnary I I, I<)l)l) The Observer• SPORTS 
------··· ----­
¦ 

Hy RAU IE!. DEER 
\p(11t... Wri1i•1 
BPgi1111ing today. tlw Suint !\larv·s swim tPam will c11mJwlP in tlw i\lid1ig,111 lnt«,rrollPgiatP t\1hli•tic-1\ss1wiati1111 swimming and diving diampionships at lloJH' <:ollPg1• in llolland. Mich. 
"Tlw swim tlll'PI r1111s l'ro111 lhursdav !r1 Sa!11rday with pn·­lilll'-in iill' mo1·11i11g i111d Ilw top 12 swimm1•rs 1"l'l11rr1i11g-for li11al-. I.hat 1•vP11ing," lwad rnacli li11i Cook said 
Thi• 1!1•!1ps hope' to improvP l111•ir linal plari11g al'tPr finishing ,ixfh lasf y1•ar 
111 I '1118·. tlw womP!I look only 1-H, points. hut this li11w t!u•y hop" to lo11i-;h it out <111d nu·k up 
a highm !.(Will total. Tlrny will look l'nr strong finislrns f'rom swimnwrs in s1wcral nvnnts. 
.Junior Midwll1\ Samrnta, who linislwd liflh in tile 100-nwtnr hn'aststrok1\ last ynar. looks to lnad U1P BPIII\S. Sh11 !wads into tlw WPPkPn<I spPdPd third in Um l'Yl\llL. Sitmrcta is also sl'cdcd loth i11 Uw 200 brPaststrok11. 
SPniors Ann Yanda and Tara Tlmnrns hopn lo clm;r1 oul tlwir rol l1·gia1I' 1·ar1•1•rs \·liith strong IH'rl'ormann)s. Thomas is sncd­1\d 19th in tlrn 200 individual 111Pdl1•y, 14th in tlw l 00 back­slrok;\ a11cl .12th in the 200 h1tckstrokP. 
Yanda is scl'd<'d 10th in thn 200 br1•aststrok1\ and 100 brPaststrokP 1wents and 20th in the 200 individual 'medley. 
In thn frenstyln ev11nts, tho ll<\ll1\S look to frnshml-\11 Danil'lln Claylon and Alida Lesneskie . Clayton is seeder! Pighlh in the 50 ·rrnnstyln, 1Jlh in the 200 frenstyln, and I0th in the 100 l'renstyln. Lesrn~skin and sopho­morn Olivia Smith will compot(i in thn 200, 500. and 1650 frnnstyle events. 
Ovt>rall. Cook wants lo snr, 1.inws drop for nil of the women. 
"TIH\Y will ho1wfully capturn sonw ;·ncords that tlrny have lml'n sit ting on top of all sna­su11." Cook said. 
"This is what wn havo trainnd for all ynar, now wr, IHLVI' to go in a11d provP. ourselves." Cook said. 


NEIGHBORHOOD ROOTS 

• February 27, 1999 12:00 • 3:00 p.m. • Learn more about South Bend on a 9ujded tour • Learn about service facill1ies in town • Eat some sood srub • Neec ocher freshmen 
Si9n-ups in the dinin9 halls: February 10,11, and 12 From 5:00 • 7:00 p.m. 

Brousht to you by Student Government• Put1jn9 S1udents Firs1. 
page 19 

¦ NFL 
Bears' front office drops Mccaskey 
Associat~d Prco, 
!AKE FOREST, Ill. 
Micha.el McCaskey was rflnrnved WMJn,,sday as prns­irl nnt of the Chicago B(1ars following a bungled coaching announcement that. brought league-wid(1 ombarrassnwnt to 0110 of the NFL's founding franchises. 
McCaskoy. a Yalo graduate and former business profes­sor al Harvard. was moved upstairs to i:hairrnan of lhe board. The restructuring was announced by his mothN ­ma,jority stockholder Virginia Halas McCaskP.y, daughtor of team founder and legendary coach George I laJas. 
r,~d Phillips. thn team's vkn pn:sident of' football opera­tions and chief financial offi­cer, was nanHid presid()nt and CEO -marking the first time in the team's 79-vear history that someone outside thH McCaskny-Hal1is rarnily has hold that position. 
"l think it took me ov~rnight and I btigan to look at it roalistically rather than sentimentally," Virginia McCaskoy said. ''J realized this was tho way to go and the thing to do." 
The team was embarrassed last month when Arizona Cardinals defensive coordina­tor Dave McGinnis turned down the Bnars' coaching job after his hiring was announced prematurely. The Bears issued a pnH,s rt~l1Jmw and called a news conforence to introduce l\tcGinnis, who was furious because there was no agreement in place. · 
The Bcurs later hired Jacksonville defensive coordi­nator Dick Jauron as r.:oach. 
MichMI Mccaskey, 55, who became the Bears' thlrd press ident in 1983, again apolo­gized Wednesday for the McGinnis fiasco. 
"Them was nothing calcu• lated in ·what happened there. For ,,1lmtcver mistakes that Wfll'e ma.de. I rngrN my part. ospec_ially rhn misun­derstandings that developed. l wish we hadn't. stumblfid that badly." he said. 
"lt.'s di'sappointing to foul up lih that and to c·auso griof for other pPoplP whom you admire.'' 
Tho Bnars l111vn strnnblnd to 4-12 n•rords thn last two sm1­s o n s . an d so m 11 o I' llHd r rocont playM acquisitions have been disastrous, none morn so than q11arf1•rback flop Hkk Mirnr, who cost. them a l'irst-round pick and was rnlnasPd art.,~r onP sPa­
son. 
Michael Mccaskey. tho old­m,t of' 11 Mccaskey childrPn, has 1·011111 und11,: firP !'or choic('S throughout his earner. lie rcf'wwd to hirP a ge1rnral n11rnagnr, did not work out a plan to build a new stadium and saw thou­sands of no-shows at Soldil'r Fil'ld last s,:ason. 
After winning a Supnr Bowl championship in 1<)85 with a toam asscmbh!d primarily by fornwr gonnral managor .Jim Finks, McCaskey's tnnure was marknd by ;lll Hroding talent base, losing SNLsons and the firing of' head coach­es Mik(i Ditku and Dave 
W:umstodt. 
Virginia McCaskcy said the McGinnis fiasco didn"t pn­su:1.d1l hnr family to makr. the change. And she said the crit• icism has b1rnn tough 11t tinws. 
''Any mothN, any wifo likus to SPP her loved ones appn•· dated and supported. But I think mayl.Jo Mike has h1Ln· died it bnttcr thnn I hnvn," she said. 
Mirhael McCaskoy prnisml Phillips for his contributions to the tt-am over the last 1li y~ars. lttl said handing ovnr control to a pnrson outside of the family .. was emotional, but it's not agonizing. 
"It's nmnt.ional b(\r,wse it is so important for us as tlrn MeCaskPy-1 lalas l'amily to h11 tied to thn BP:irs." 
As parl of' 11w restrurt11r­ing. his fotlwr. Fd MrCnskc•y. who will turn XO in April, steppNI down as ehairman ol' the board and look llw titlP of chairman nmPrirw,i. 

.. 
.. 
... =s= 

page 20 The Observer• PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, February I I, 1999 
,. 
~­
-
student union 
HAPPENINli!!i 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 
Movie: Ever After. 

02/11. Thursday.  Cushing Auditorium.  1030PM.  Tickets: $2.  
02/12. Friday.  Cushing Auditorium.  0800PM & 1030PM.  
02/13. Saturday.  Cushing Auditorium.  0800PM & 1030PM.  
Acousticafe.  
02/11. Thursday.  Lafortune Huddle.  0900PM-1200AM.  
Sophomore Literary Festival.  
02/14. Sunday.  Washington Hall.  0600PM.  Alan Lightman.  
02/15. Monday.  Washington Hall.  0B00PM.  Leonard Michaels.  
02/16. Tuesday.  Washington Hall.  0800PM.  Jim Carroll.  
02/17. Wednesday.  Washington Hall.  0800PM.  Raymond Feist.  
02/18. Thursday.  Washington Hall.  0800PM.  Student Readers.  
02/19. Friday.  Washington Hall.  0630PM.  Annie Finch.  
CCC (CLUB CDDRDINATIDN COUNCIL]  
NAACP Formal.  
02/13. Saturday.  Lafortune Ballroom.  
BSU Meeting.  
02/14. Sunday.  csc.  0300-0400 PM.  
HPC [HALL PRE!ilDENT§' CDUNCILJ  
PW Carnation Sale.  
02/11. Thursday.  
02/12. Friday.  
O'Neill: King of Mardi Gras Contest.  
02/11. Thursday.  
PE "Snap a Scam" continues this week.  
SYRs  
02/12. Friday.  PE.  
02/13. Saturday.  Knott. O'Neill Mardi Gras.  
Formals.  
02/13. Saturday.  Lyons. Alumni.  
STUDENT 601/ERNMENT  
Saferide. 631-9888.  
02/11. Thursday.  Where the Action Is.  1000PM-0200AM.  
02/12. Friday.  Where the Action Is.  1000PM-0300AM.  
02/13. Saturday.  Where the Action Is.  1000PM-0300AM.  

ND Writing Center: "Writing in Literature: Arguments and Style in English Assignments." 02/17. Wednesday. OSHA 119. 0700PM-0900PM. 
Ml§CELLANEDU§ICAMPU§-WIDE 

Kellogg Institute: A Celebration of Carnaval with Jazzmineiro Popular Brazilian Music. 02/12. Friday. Reckers. 0700PM. co-sponsored with La Alianza Speaker Patricia Weiss-Fagan: "The Role of the International Community in Post-Conflict Reconstruction and Reconciliation." 02/16. Tuesday. C-103 HCIS. 1230PM. co-sponsored with Center for Civil and Human 
Rights, Kroc Institute for lnt'I Peace Studies. Speaker Michael Pries: "Globalization and Economic Development." 02/17. Wednesday. C-103HCIS. 0700PM. co-sponsored with LAASP. 
Happy Valentine's Day. 02/14. Sunday. 
Dept. of Music: Robert Bates, organ. 

02/14.  Sunday.  Basilica.  0800PM.  Free.  
Ash Wednesday.  
02/17.  Wednesday.  


Can be used with invisible tape as tattoos. (Submissions for next week's tattoos can be sent via campus mail to SUB. 201 LaFortune] 
0890008e~00800000800000800088800880000800008000 

Thursday, February 11, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 21 
Ga01e 
continued from page 24 
~1acl.Pod said. "It got us to a po in I w h<' n• w <' Io s t o u r rllylh111 and Wl'f'P opPraling al a nlllrli fasll·r pa1·1• than w1• W!'l'I' llSP to... 
By g-anw·s 1>11tl. l'vlH!'LPod's \l'illll h,1d 1111111SSl'd 28 I lll'llfl\'f'l'S. 
"In lhP sn,·orHI lwlf. WP did a iiPI !Pr job lla11rlli1114 !111• hall," 1:slu•rkk said. "K!'vin BraS\\'1'11, I 1hou14hl pla.yPd gn•at.. This was 01w of KPvin's lwi1Pr hall's in his short. ,·anwr h,·n• at (;,,or1-{l'l11w11. IIP play,•d grP,II 011 1Jl'l'l'nc.1•. II" did a 
g-ood j11h 011 d1•f'PllSI' ... 
Hrasw,'11 s1·or1•d I :l points and n1·r1111111latPd 11i111\ sl1•als ID l1·ad Ill!' lloyas in both ,·:itl'­goriPs. 
Br"sw" 11 · s d,. J'1•11 siv" g-a nw ~1i111 d11w11 Ma rt in I l]!.(Pls by, who rn1111• out l'asl for Not.rn llaml', si11ki1114 lhr1\I' 1l1rPf'­poi11LPrs in 1111· Iii-st half'. 
111 tlw sP1·01HI half'. llrasw!'II 
did nol allow lngolsby a single poinl. 
"This was a very tough ganrn for us to win," Eslrnrick said. "Notrn Da11w has bPPn playing v<iry w,~ll. They have one of' thn bnttnr frnshmnn in thn rountry in Murphy. Their starting fivn is a vnry good shooting lnam." 
NotrP Durn,~ hcllll~d up !'asl and Ind hy as 11111ch as 14 in 1.1111 first half. Murphy Ind a rallying rry latn in LIH) snr.ond half'. lrnt. it was loo litll(' t.o latP. 
Thi• l'rf'shn1an·s aggressivn sl.yl1• of' play got him inlo f'oul truuhln in tlw middln of' t.lw sprond Ila IL 
011cl' Murphy l'oull'cl out. Noln\ l>anw lost its driV('. and l.lw ganw. 
"lln \\as rPally going at t.lw I j Ill f'," !\I II CI,(' 0 d SII icl of' I lw 
loss of momnntum wlrnn ~lurphy l'oulnd ouL. "It is a loss wl}('n vot1 loS(' him. You O('Vnr want l·;, lose your top gun." 
Thn frt•shma11 scornd a g-amn-high 15 points and pullPd clown nine rebounds. SPnior l'hil llicktiy had a dou-

Date____=2/~1~1/~9~9___ Location_~5~8~3~6~G=r~a=p~e~R~o~a=d'­Group__~N~.
~R=o=d=e~o_C=l=u=-b-
L __________________ 

Present this coupon at the Hacienda restaurant at S8J6 Grape Road on Feb 11 and 25% of your purclrnse will he donated to the club. 
chip away at it. Play good, solid dnf'Pnse and make sur1i that Notrn Danw did not gel any wide open shots," 
Eshcrick's team followed his advicn to a ton and ralliml f'or tlw important road victory. 
1"" 
bln-doubln, wilh 12 points and 11 rnbounds. 
The turning point for the gar1111 was clearly the begin­ning of' tfrn second hair, as Eslrnrick's squad put forth a clnlnrminecl nffori to control tlrn ball and turn up the defen­sive intensity. 

"I told them that you don't want to try and get a 12-point load back in tlw first posses­sion," Eslrnrick said about his halftime spcoch. "You want in 
0 

Come Join the Tradition Applications are now being accepted for'.111a positions for the 1999-2000 academic school 
You may pick up applications at t, 

~ 
Office of Student Activities 

·,r,_·: 
.~·:;;..: ,, 315 Lafortune \~ -~\ \ 
;Deadline: February 26,. 


LOOK OUT FOR FLYING T-SHIRTS 
(and other giveaways) 
College Night Thmsdays 
South Bend's Biggest Party 
99C SPECIALS 
99C COVER 
WITH STUDENT I.D. 

J:ee_ %t< 
;;,;Pit:/ 

222 S. MICffiGAN 
SOUTH BEND • (219) 234-5200 
www.ace laces.com/heartland 
-

page 22 The Observer• SPORTS Thursday, February 11, 1999 
¦ COLLEGE FOOTBALL 

..,. 
Holtz to leave impression on Gamecock players 
-


-1%4­
SAINT 
MARY'S 
COLLEGE 
NOTRE UAME, IN 
CLASS OF 2000 UPCOMING EVENTS 
2/IO Do SOMETHING GOOD FOR YOUR HEART AND HELP MAKE 
VALENTINES FOR THE ELDERLY OF THE HOLY CROSS CARE AND REHAB CENTER FROM 5 P.M.· 7 P.M. IN THE LOBBY OF YOUR DORM. ALSO ENJOY PIZZA, BREADSTICKS, AND GOOD COMPANY. 
2/13 SHARE AN HOUR OF YOUR TIME TO GIVE OUT THE CREATIVE 
VALENTINES YOU MADE ON THE 10TH WITH THE PEOPLE OF 
THE HOLY CROSS (ll,RE AND REHAB CENTER. MEET IN LEMANS LOBBY AT 10:45 A.M. 
2/13 PLEASE JOIN THE SISTERS OF THE HOLY CROSS TO SUPPORT 
YOUR BELLES BASKETBALL TEAM. GAMES ll,RE AT 12 45 P.M. AND 3:30 PM. 
2/23 THERE WILL BE PERSONAL TRAINER IN ANGELA AT 5 P.M. TO 
DISCUSS HEALTHY HABITS IN HONOR OF EATING DISORDERS WEEK. LEARN HOW TO SHED THOSE EXTRA POUNDS THE HEALTHY WAY. 
The week 
BE SURE TO STOP IN HAGGAR THIS WEEK TO ADDRESS JUNIOR 
of 2/22 
MOlfS WEEKEND INVITATIONS. 

Associated Press discipline ~ "And I'm talking your ser.ond y11ar, you can take it 
ahout if the coach says some­to another l,wcl. But they think 
COLUMBIA, S.C. thing, it's not just a suggestion." it's casinr bticause tlrny'vo hmm 
Lou Holtz no,v starts the real Holtz said -quickness, condi­through it beforu." work of turning South Carolina tioning and rdatrd skills. llollz n'mcmbnrs his first olT­from chickens to champions. Holtz looks like anything but season program at Notrn Dame 
The coach's winter condition­an authoritarian in his sparsnly -players pouring swnat, largo ing program. which some f'ormrr dee.orated o!lice. Hut his success, barrds for, ahem, vomiting, ruf­Notre Darners called the "puke­popularity and philosophy are fled faculty. "They still talk about fest.," begins this week with an everywhere, from the three flat­that.. That is higcmdary," hn said. eye toward increasing the terir{g books neatly linnd up on lloltz and his coaclrns havn Gamecocks' speed, strength and tlrn co!Tet" table to the bumpN shown GarnP-cnck playnrs the agility. sticker on his closet door that agility drills thny will bn nxpnct­
"Our goals an' VPry 1:onstant sounds liko a TV ad: "How to you ncl to perform during tlH' 7:i­
from vear to vear but differ from spt"ll relief'! ll-0-L-T-Z" minutn workouts. Bv tlw Pml ­place to piace," Holtz said He savs his Gamecocks won't besidcis lnannr, stro11g<'r, quic-kt·r Wednesday. need reiicr !'mm aazy, sick(ming playms ~ !loltz hopns to l'org1' a 
Holtz said through the training workouts. "But vou do have lo bond with p]ayPrs lw and his sessions, which Inst until spring sot SOIDll standards," Holtz said. staff can call on in tlw f'ou rth football prac:ticti bcgi ns !\larch "IL might b<' a little nHm: intr\nsi­quarti)r against T1\n1wssPP or 20, hr will nstablish work othic, ty than tlicy'rc llSN! to. But hy Florida. 
Celebrate President's Day 

www.nclfcu.org 
(219) 239-661 I (800) 522-6611 

r/}J ~g~~~~~~tu,~~ 
'Must be a full ume employee and ,lirecl deposit your net pay. 
I ndcpcndenl of' the University 


education uniquely focused on the 21st century. Just ask our 3,000 alumni. They are practicing from America to Zimbabwe, as solo practitioners and In Interdisciplinary settings. They know that our FOCUS ON EXCELLENCE has earned us an intema­tional reputation as a pioneer in chiropractic education, patient care and scientific research. ·NQlthwestem is a single-pwpose, limited enrolhnent. private institution featuring awell'•rounded, RIGOROUS EDUCATIONAL PROGRAM integrating the basicanddihlcal sciences, diagnosis, X-ray, chiropractic therapeutics, wellness care and practice management. our pioneering clinical internship prop-llM5, interdi5dpli­na.ry study opportunities and a state-of-the art student clinic provide our graduates with an UNPARALI.ELED CLINICAL FOUNDATION. Add our Career Services Center, where we assist our graduates in job placement, and you can understand why our graduatesiutve sti~h ahigh satisfaction level with .their careers. For a personal visit or more detailed information, .call a Northwestern admissions J-8OO-888-4m•··0r go virtual at www.nwchiro:edu 


Thursday, February 11, 1999 The Observer• TODAY page 23 
Puzzle by Harvey Estes and Nancy Salomon 

DOGBERT'S TECH SUPPORT 
~ 
"T\-\EN I WILL 
0 
@" 
TRI\NSFE.R 't'OU TO

FIR5T, I NEED TO 
~ 
SOMEONE WHO WILL
-:I

ASK '<OU M~NY 

#24 Men's Tennis 
vs. 
#10 Duke 

Sat. Feb. 13th 
at 9:00am 
DAN SULLIVAN 
BILL AMEND 
WH1LE I'M  
GLAD THAT  
SEE? IT'S  IT's NoT...  
NoT  
DYING.  
1,-11- 

SCOTT ADAMS 
WE 00 THIS TO REMOVE 
ANY HOPE YOU MIGi-ff 
HA.VE HA.O THAT WE ONDER.5TAND TECHNOLOGY. 


43 Cereal box info 50Hoopla 44 Shopaholic's 51 Starstruck delight 

54 Down-home 45 Pirates· stashes turndown 46Rogue 55 Rip off 47 Cause of a nasty 56 Star Wars letters gut feeling? 
57 Clectrifying 48 Basketball tactic swimmer 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 
1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 

Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
-
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS will entire your mate and nclp stabi­DAY: Sidm·y Sheldon, Burt Reynolds, lize your relationship. 00000 Eva Gabor, Leslie Nielsen, Gene VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sepl. 22): Ro­Vincent, Virginia E. Johnson, Lloyd mance will be most ~luring. Travel Bentsen, Tina Louise and philosophical pursuits will be Happy Birthday: This will be a excit'ing as well as Jl."'Warding. Don't difficult year for you ir you aren't overspend on enlertainrnent or per­willing lo share, compromise and get sonal purchases. 00 along with others. Take your time LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Make making important decisions. Consid­changes with regard to your living er the ones you love if you want to arrangements today. lie careful nol lo make changes that will affect their overspend or lake on a project that is lives. You can make major accom~ beyond yout capability. Try to get plishments as long as you follow the oth,·rs to help, but don't be pushy. rules and look out for the well-being 0000 or those depending on you. Your SCORPIO (OcL Zl-Nov. 21): You numbers: 3, 8, 14, 24, 35, 49 will have trouble pleasing friends and ARIES (March 21-April 19): You rl'!atives. It is b.:st to please yourself can expect lo have difficulties with rather than bang your head against a female members or your family. You wall. You need to n,lax and get in will need patience in order to avoid touch with your own feelings. 000 outbursts of temper. It is best not SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dee. 21): lo confront emotional situations, You will be able lo make progress in 00000 your business deals today. Use dis­TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Trav­cernment when choosing partners.el will promote romance and adven­Some individuals may want to ride ture. You will be interested in the cul­on your coat tails. 000 tural background of those you meet. CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You can acquire knowledge You'll have problems understanding if you are willing to try new things. your partner's actioos. Go over the 000 eventq that lead to ~ dilemma facing GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You you. You must look at all the facts may get bogged down if you allow H you wish to eliminate confusion. others to push their responsibilities 000 on you. Confusion regarding the per­AQUA.RIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): sonal papers of someone close to you Someone you trust may not have may be unnerving. 000 your best interests in mind. Avoid CANCER (June 21-July 22): You getting involved in secret affairs or will have to take a long hard look at triangles that could ruin your reputa­your emotional commitments. You tion. Don't believe everything you will not be too happy if your mate is hear.0000 overindulgent. Don't do things that PISCES (Feb. 1,-March 20): You will encourage escapism, 000 can get into a positioo of leadership if LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will be you are willing to voice your opinions able to inspire confidence in others at group meetings. Your strength and and get them to help you accomplish determination will surely win you your goals. Your charming manner points as well as allies. 00 Birthday Baby: You'll want to experience all that life has lo offer. It will be important not lo expect too much from others. You must gauge yourself care­fully as the need to overdo is evident. Simplicity will be the key to getting ahead. (Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web Siles al aslro•dvice.com, eugenialast.com, astroma te.com.) © 1999 Uni\'crsal Press Syndicate  
·, /•.OF INTEREST R.-;sume Expert and Resume Writing Workshop -.pesJgn an attention-getting resume for your job search. this workshop will cover on-screen instruc• tions for using Resume Expert to prepare and enhance -your resume. Ha.nds-on assistance with formatting suggestions and help with questions, the use of "power" phrases, common resume errors and mis• ,t~kes, career objectives, and how to \\/fit(~ an effective cover letter. Limited space, advanced sign-up rocom­.triended; Call the Career and Placement Services office (k5200} to regist<ff. Presented by Olivia Williams, Assistant Director; Today. LaFortuno Computer Lab, :{"4:30p;rn. Please bring your Resume Expert Disk. "Thi;! Role of Christian Peacemaker Teams in Reopening Hebron University" will be the topic pf a focture by Wendy Lehman, a graduate student in Peace Studies M the Kroc Institute, at 12:30 p.m. today In room C-103 of the Hosburgh Cent.or for International Studies.  
Wanted: Reporters and photographers. Join The Observer staff.  

-
-
#7HOCKEY vs. FERRIS STATE Sat. Feh-13 at 7:00pm 
First 1000fans receive free 1nicrowave popcorn!! 
FOXTROT 
Gfl£1>.T. MY STEREo IS DYING. 
HoW Do You k:Now? 

DILBERT 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Actress Gaynor 
6 "~-la vista, 
baby!" 11 Serpent's sound 14 Flareup of 
crime? 15 Dizzying 
pictures t6 Goon 11 Watch a shaky 
Japanese money market? 19Passing assistance? 20 Lean and lovely 
21 With 33-Down, 1978 Nobel Prize recipient 
23 Cold war foe 28 Contemptuous looks 21 Unblocks 
LOOKING Tl !ROUGH THE WIZARD OF ND 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
EWS 


E C O::~~"~~~=,~:=,~::~~::;::=i<e~:;:•~=-C H 0 
WAr( -rtLL FEED 
HoW 7 I'Vt: GoT 1TCRIIMl®All niE WA'( UP AND Yoo CAN ONLY HEAR THE FAINTEST 
L1TTLE BIT OF MUSIC COMll'IC. OUT oF THE SPEAKERS. 
\ 
I 
A5K Tl-IE SAME 
QUE.5TIONS AGA.IN. 
E 
0 
-r (.) <ll 
i .0 
28 Librarygoer 30-d'oeuvre 31 Fictional hero 
first filmed in 
1920 
32 N.Y. winter hrs. 35 Not straight 38 What each of 
today's four long answers is vis-a-vis New Year's Eve 
38 The Seine is full of it 39 Pitches 40 Words for actors 
41 Briefs, briefly <12 Band on a limb 44 Run in the raw 
46 Dessert not for the diet­conscious 
48 Popular magazine since 
1926 
49 Off drugs 50Jean of 
"Bombshell" 52 Get one past 53 This little poem 
or that? 58 Kitten's cry 59 Lighthouse sites so Fall away 61 Prefix with 
Columbian 62 Forfeits fur 63 Actress Danning 
of "Hercules" 
DOWN 
1 Women with shavers 2 It makes one hot 3 Mao ---tung 4 Asian grasses popular on lawns 
5"Well!" 6 Bays 7 Pit--(heart 
sound) aReliever's triumph 
9 Three for Sophia 10 Haphazardly 11 Call off the debt? 12 Headhunter's 
equipment 13 J.C. Penney 
rival 1a Takes home 22 Wedding notice 
word 23 Pronunciation 
symbol 24 Prayer opening 25 Sheep with all its 
marbles? 
26 She played Darlene on "Roseanne" 
28 Writer's reference 29 Does the wrong thing 31 Author Grey 33 See 20-Across 34Wildboar 
features 
36 Astronomical data providers 
37 Bank-washer in Cairo 

Eck Pavilion 


¦ Ray Allen re-signed ¦ South Carolina with the Milwaukee coach Lou Holtz has Bucks for $70.9 mil­introduced his team to 
lion over six years. grueling winter work­outs.
PORTS 

p.16 p.22 
O 
THE 

page 24 BSERVER Thursday, February I I, 1999 
¦ MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Notre DaIDe drops heartbreak.er to Georgetown 
Hoyas come from 12 down to knock offIrish 
Bv KATHLEEN LOPEZ 
Sports Editor 
It appnarnd neith1'r l\'otre Dame nor lieorgetown wanted to walk away with a win \;\'ednesday at the Joyce Centnr. as sloppy play dictat­ed the flow of the important confrrencf• showdown from beginning to end. 
The llovas rallied from a 12-point ;leficit to d1;feat the Irish. f,2-:i 1. Multiple Irish turnovrrs led to a 20-6 Hoya run, which <'rased a 12-point halftirrw deficit and propelled Georgetown to its fourth con­ference victory of the season. 
ThP lloyas, though plagued bv turnovPr woes earlv on, g11w tlw ball away just "thrne times in the critical second half. 
"In llw second half, we didn't turn th11 ball over," GPorgetown roach Craig Eslwrid said. "In the first half', wn had 15 turnovers. We wnrc very sloppy with the ball. We trird to push thr ball and force the action." 
In addition lo maintaining possession of the ball, the Hoyas rattled Notre Dame with prnssure defense down the stretch. 
"Their quickness defensive­ly really bothered us," Notre Dame head coach John 
see GAME/ page 21 
¦ WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 


Irish loss tough for players, fans to swallow 
By JOEY CAVATO Associate Sports Editor 

Towels hung over tlwir lrnacls as the Irish sat in tlw lockPr room, searching tlw floor f'or answ1!rs that. w1;re nowlwre lo be found. /\nsw,irs that wern as olusivo as baskets during tlw second half' of' WPdn<)sday night's ()2· :i:-l loss to Georgetown. 
.Jimmy Dillon and Troy t\1urphy found corn<'rs to study the statistics that makP coachns and playPrs fnnl nau­seous. 
Committing 11 mor<' tur1rnv<1rs than fil'ld goals made will do that to you. 
Frustration f'illcd th<' room like thP stPam from tlrn show­Prs. 
ThP Irish f'ell ba!'k to tlw .:i00 mark and took a stPp backward. 
"WP had an opportunity and tlwy took it away l'rom us," said Phil Ilic'.kPy who was :-l-f'or-10 from tlw ffold. "It's so f'rustrating. As a ·team. WP work so hard. It was right tlrnre within our grasp and wo lost it and it is frustrating. It's nothing we can't bounco back from but right now it really hurts." 
Arter two of their lrnst wins of' tlrn season .John Marl.Pod's squad had morn turnovPrs 
see IRISH / page 18 
Irish defeat Wildcats, capture 11th straight victory 
By BRIAN KESSLER Assistant Sports Editor 

-
Arter pulling oul just a one­point victory against Villanova 
earlier this sr.ason, the sixth­ranked Notre Damr. womr.n's baskPtball tram knew it would have its hands full wht111 they faced tlw on tlrn road Wndnnsday night. 
And for a half. they did. Villanova played the Irish even l'or 20 minutes and

-
trailPd by just three at the break. Notw Dame, howr.ver, prnvNI to hf' too much for the Wildcats, as they went on a 1 ct<l run and outscornd Villanova by 11) in tho S()COnd hair en route to a 74-52 victo­ry. 
Huth Hiley, lh(' Big East's leading rebounder and scorer. regained her form and chipped in a double-double, scoring 23 points and grab­bing l 1 rnbounds, including five offensive boards. The sophomore center was 7-of-9 from the field and 9-of-13 
from the foul line in 32 min­utes of play. 
The Irish rebounded from a 16-turnover first half in Sunday's game, committing just 14 Wednesday night. 
Junior point guard Nielr, Ivey, last week's Big East co­player of' tlrn week, dished out 
Notre Dame 74 Villanova 52 
seven assists and had four steals, while commilting just threo turnovers. She also added sevnn points for thP Irish, who have now won 11 straight. 
Once again, Ericka Haney had a solid game off the bench, scoring eight points and p111ling down flight boards. 

Senior Danielle Green shot 7-of-13 and had 17 points for the Trish, who shot 43 percent as a team. 
Senior captain Sheila McVlillen struggled again, scoring just eight points on 2­ol'-8 shooting. 
Sophomore forward Kelley SiPmon had a good showing, scoring six points and grab­bing six rebounds. 
Wildcats junior Jenea Skeeters led the tt-rnm with 12 points despite shooting just 2­of-7 f'rnm the field. 
Jenn Silwa addl'd l O points in the loss. Vi II anova strug­gled from three-point land, shooting just 4-of-20 from beyond the arc. 
The loss Jrops Villanova to 11-11 (7-7 in !he Big East} on the season. The Irish, on the otlrnr hand, am now 20-2 and 12-2 in the conference. 
Tlrny travel to Rutgers Saturday to take on the Scarlet Knights, who are just one spot ahearl of' thr Irish in the conference standings, 

Men's tennis 
at Michigan Srare 

at West Virginia .
vs. Duke

(it) ~ 
Friday, 8 p.m . 
SPORTS 

Sunday, noon ·,:::--:..· 
Saturday, 9 a.m. 
ATA 
Saint Mary's Basketball 

~ 
Women's tennis
at Rutgers 
vs. Defiance College 

(ff) vs. Ohio State
Saturday, 2 p.m. -..::::::· ~ Saturday, 3 p.m. 
Friday, 6 p.m. 
GLANCE 





