
Can't hardly wait to see the movie 
Shooting Spree 
Read Scene's review of "Can't Hardly Wait" as 
In the second U.S. shooting in two days, a man 

Thursday
this week's video pick. Also enjoy Scene's 
kills two and injures others in Seattle after 
reviews oftwo movies currently in the theatres. 
opening fire ;n a business office. 
NOVEMBER 4, 
Scene . page 12-13 
World & Nation . page 5 
1999 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIII NO. 45 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
PREVENTING THE INEVITABLE


Pfaff lectures on global economics 
"The problem is," Pfaff said,
By SAM DERHEIMER 
"the U.S. has repeatedly shown News Writer 
itself to be antagonistic to any deal that did not leave the 
U.S. dominanc,~ in the global American companies involved economic and political spectrum running thi-show." This attitude may. lrn fading, and possibly is incrnasingly becoming an issue 
rightly so, as European William Pfaff nations arc said in his lnc:­beginning to
"The problem is the US. 
t u r n demand more 
WPdnPsclay has repeatedly shown control over night. itself lO be antagonistic tho business 
Pfaff spokn deals that
to any deal that did not 
1111 tlw faltPr­shapn their ing character leave the American economic 
of 11.S. foroign companies involved futures, he policy, espP­said.
running the show."
cially in llwsP "Europeans policiPS ('.Oil­want to be I" n I'll i 11 g William Pfaff sovereign," he Furoppa11 s a i rl
lecturer 
nations. Subsequently, SpnC"ilically. ht• European ntllf'll a lll'll-nations am tion to tlw impnnding rmcessity 111' slowly coming to the stance that 
trn11satla11tic m11rg11rs and the the U.S. no longer deserves to be pro!Jh,ms tlw UnitNl Statns will top dog. Unless Urn U.S. is willing lw fon:t1cl to deal with ii' and to take a serious look at some of wlrnn such an economic transi­

A student takes a flu vaccination in Lafortune Student Center hoping not to become
t.ion begins. sec PFAFF/page 4 


infected with the illness. Health services will offer the free flu shot today In Lafortune. 
-----------~--­





Sullivan receives '99 ND award 
By HELENA RAYAM 
News Writer 
Last night in the College of Business J\dmin istration's Jordan Auditorium, Reverend Leon Sullivan, recipient of the esteemed Notre Dame Award, announced, 'Tm preaching now -like a black Baptist preacher." 
Immediately Sullivan received applause and several chuckks. The subject of Sullivan's "sermon" included the need for businesses to conduct fair corporate practices and recognize the injustice that keeps many Americans from obtaining training for jobs. 
"I am sounding an alarm to America," said Sullivan, "to restore training and jobs and assistance ... or there will be a troubled land." 
Sullivan's active role in advocating job training is one of the reasons for which he was given the 1999 Notre Dame !\ward. The award is given to leaders in the world who practice good deeds because of their faith in God. Sullivan is a civil rights leader and the founder of Opportunities Indnstrialization Centers (OIC), which has become an international employment training program. 
"I.eon Sullivan's struggle against racial prejudice and economic injustice has been lifelong. exemplary and inspiring," said University President Father Edward Malloy in a Notre Dame press release. 
Sullivan began his civic leadership in Philadelphia during the 1 %Os where he organized several boycotts against busi­nesses that denied jobs to African­Amcricans. lie continued to speak against rlis<'.rimination and focused on the 
see SULLIVAN/page 6 

Snack bar opens in Madeleva Hall 
By NELLIE WILLIAMS 
News Writer 
Students and professors on the run at Saint Mary's now can slow down and enjoy the conve­nience of a new snack bar in Madeleva Hall. 
The snack bar, which opened last Monday, includes avariety of snacks, sandwiches, muffins, chips, fruit, yogurt and bagels. It also serves fresh coffee, 

hot chocolate, "It [the snack bar] is an dents and Jmcc, soda indefinite thing. It will be professors 
and milk. enjoy the
staying there forever."
"Students convenience and faculty of the snack staff in the Gina Wallace bar. building retail and dining hall "I think it's 
requested a a good idea
service manager
snack bar." 
said Gina Wallace, retail and dining hall service manager. At the moment the snack bar is set up on tables, but "an actual cart is being built for it," Wallace said. 
"It [the snack bar) is an indefi­nite thing. It will be staying there forever," she said. 
Although many students have complai_ned that the prices are too high, the pricing systems is the same as the one used at the snack bar in Haggar. Many stu­dents are also upset because they cannot use their Munch 

Money in Madeleva. "In the near future they arc 
planning  on  using  Munch  
Money.  We  are  not  certain  
when," Wallace said.  

Student Katie Bickham nor­mally eats her breakfast in the dining hall. However, she wishes that she could use her meal plan at the snack bar. 
"I might make use of it if it was part of the unlimited meal plan in the dining hall." said Bickham. 
Still, stu­
because we 
don't have 

time and are [usually] late for class," said stu­dent Katherine Lewandowski. 
The snack bar rush is usually in the morning with students wanting to grab breakfast. 
"It's extremely popular in the morning for students looking for a continental breakfast on the run," said Wallace. 
Student Christina Vestevich enjoys having the coffee avail­able. 
"It is so perfect becausn I havn found having a coffee in class 
see SNACK BAR/page 6 


page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Thursday, November 4, 1999 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Be Fruitful, 
Multiply 
Every now and then, the perpetual worriers of the world come out of the woodwork and "educate" us on the latest pressing issue. Certain life-or-death movements come in and out of fashion, leaving me to wonder just how life­and-death they could possi­bly be. One minute, Styrofoam is the root of all evil and landfills are over­flowing and we have no room to move about. Two weeks later, the survival of mankind depends on some random cause promoted by Ted Danson or some other Hollywood intellectual. 
Now that our world's pop­ulation has reportedly top­pled the six-billion mark, we can look forward to hearing from population fanatics who have con­vinced themselves that overpopulation is a cri­sis deserving of our attention, not to mention government control. Groups like Zero Population Growth exist to help us "control" population and prevent what I presume are "unwanted" children. This is, of course, a delightful endeavor if you're a pro-choicer ded­icated to the noble quest of ridding the world of "unwanted children." But such a policy reeks of the same barbarism of Chinese policy. 
lt tickles me that some Americans actually support the Chinese policy, which allows fami­lies to have one child and willingly aborts fetus­es up to nine-months mature to enforce the policy. Molly Yard of the National Organization of Women, who could certainly use the "Steve McQueen treatment" for her remarks, said the policy is "one of the most intelligent in the world." 
Suddenly we're resigned to killing the unborn for the sake ofsaving the world from overpop­ulation. Interestingly enough, no credible evi­dence supports such a silly worry. Never in our history has our ability to feed our population been so strong, and birth rates are lower than you might think. Actually, scientists predict they will continue to decrease. Pair this with the fact that a state the size of Texas has enough room to accommodate the entire world's population in terms of living space, and you see that we have little to worry about. 
Our current resources afford us the ability to sustain a continually growing population, and advances in science show no signs of slowing down. These advances are viewed in a negative light by many as just prolonging the life of peo­ple who will eventually suffer from the doom overpopulation will soon bring. These people question the good accomplished with feeding third-world·countries, and I'm afraid to ask what alternatives they might suggest. 
I imagine that many of these alarmists hail from large cities where they see the world coming to an end from their perspective. Otherwise, I see little reason for any concern over reaching the six-billion mark and little reason not to believe that we will continue to make advances which will sustain even more life. If there were any evidence to support irra­tional fears of using up our resources, how would we justify government control over how many children families have? We have no need to fear being fruitful and .multiplying. Of. course, if you shudder at the nerve of a family to continue having children, I urge you, for humanity's sake, to have less of your own. 
The views expressed in the fnside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Obsen1er. 

Dustin Ferrell 
Assistant Viewpoint Editor 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Josh Bourgeois Julie Hamilton Matthew Smith Mike Vanegas Sam Derheimer Graphics . 
Sports Katie Kennedy Karhleen O'Brien Production Viewpoint Loren Berrigan 
A.J. Boyd Lab Tech Kevin Dalum 
The Ob,.,rver (USPS 59'.I 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday cxcopt during cum and vacation periods. The Ob,ervcr is a member of the Aisoci:ucd Pr.es,. All reprodu"ion right> arc reserved. 

THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS AT NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Thursday Friday 
. 
Free flu shots: OpM to . Flipside: Rollerskating all, Hesburgh Library and at USA Skate, bus at Mason Services Center, Library Circle at 7;15 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. p.m., $3 for skate rental 

. 
Lecture: Father Patrick . Free lunch: At the new Gaffney, "The Congo," C-Intcrcultural Center, noon 103 Hesburgh Center to 1:30 p.m. 


Saturday  Sunday  
. Film: "Lovers of the  . Java and Jazz: Jazz  
Arctic Circle," Snite  music with a continental  
Museum of Art, 7;30 &  breakfast, LaFortune  
9:45 p.m.  Ballroom, 11 a.m. to 1  
. Conference: "The Black- p.m., free admission  
White Achievement Gap,"  . Church: Basilica of the  
Frances Lappe, Hesburgh  Sacred Heart, 10 & 11 :45  
Library Aud., 7:30 p.m.  a.m.  

Compiled from U-Wire reports

OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Columbia students fight misconduct policy 
NEW YORK 
Tensions were high at a panel dis­cussion in Lerner Hall Tuesday evening as more than fifty students squared off against administrators over reforms to the Columbia University's sexual misconduct poli­cy. The policy comes up for review this semester for the first time since its inception in the mid '90s. 
The panel, sponsored by several campus anti-violence organizations, featured Ombuds Officer Marsha Wagner, vice provost for Academic Administration Steve Rittenberg, and Assistant Provost Beth Wilson, head of the Office of Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action, which administers the policy. 
The administrators were confront­ed with pointed questions by the stu­dents, who took issue with several facets of the policy. 

Those who attended the panel had four main criticisms: students have not been adequately educated about the sexual misconduct policy, admin­istrators and security personnel were not adequately trained to deal with sexual assault, university statis­tics underreported sex offenses, and the statute of limitations and the high burden of proof required by the policy make it too hard to convict offenders. 
UW prof may have embezzled 
MADISON, Wisc. 
University of W:isconsin-Madison Police Department officials subpoenaed personal financial records of UW­Madison agronomy professor Edward Oplinger Monday, the latest step in the two-month-old investi­gation into Oplinger's distribution of private research funds. "A subpoena for documents was served on the University of Wisconsin Credit Union ... concerning documents of the personal accounts of Professor Oplinger," said Detective Charles Flad, who is heading the police investigation. The UWPD began an investi­gation with the UW-Madison Office of Internal Audit after concerns were raised about Oplinger's handling of research money. Internal audit director Gerald Lange said the information secured by the subpoena will be crucial in determining if there was any wrong­doing. "This is really going to prove whether or not something occurred," Lange said. Lange said investi­gators must look beyond deposits alone when search­ing for evidence in the account records, however. "You can't base it on the face of what went in," Lange said. "It's more where it came from." 



LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather'"forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

Although Wilson conceded some of the students' complaints, she defended the specific policy, noting also that it was stronger than or at least comparable to sexual miscon­duct policies at peer institutions. 
The debate over the sexual mis­conduct policy has heated up recent­ly in anticipation of the Nov. 12 University Senate meeting, when a task force will issue a recommenda­tion on the policy. The full Senate will vote on that recommendation on Dec. 17. 
Take Back the Night, Students Active For Ending Rape (SAFER), Students in Action and Columbia Men Against Violence organized the panel. 
This panel is only one way in which anti-violence groups are mobilizing their supporters in prepa­ration.for the Senate meeting. 
San Diego State submits to union 
SAN DIEGO 
Starting in January 2000, all faculty and staff at San Diego .State University will be required to pay their "fair share" of union dues to the California Faculty Association. California Senate Bill 645, signed into law recently by Gov. Gray Davis, is deemed the "fair share" bill because it forces non-union members of the faculty to pay a fee for services offered by CFA. "It will finally compel our colleagues to pay for representation we already provide for them," said Rolf Schulze, presi­dent of the SDSU chapter of CFA. Although the CFA will still be required to represent non-members, the non-members cannot be forced to join the union and not all have asked for its services. "I don't want to be represented by a union in this university," said profes­sor Glen Broom. "If I had, I would've paid dues a long time ago. I think the union's adversarial model is just inappropriate for my own interests." Even though the law has passed, faculty and staff do have an option. "If given the option," Broom said, "I would choose to divert my 'fair share' to a charity, somewhere I think my money could be used more wisely." 

NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Thursday, Nov. 4. 3 10.----f:> FRONTS:_._._.......... ..........._, -0 1999 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM ST.AT/ON.ARY~­ 
.® © ~ [IT] E:m ~ ~ 0 ~.High LOW Show•r• Rain T....orma Snow ,.. lklnny Pt.~ CIOUdy"""".. 

Vil A:savcilffod PrM4  
Atlanta  66  35  Dallas  74  50  Oichard Pali<  44  30  
Baltimore  57  33  Fredonia  46  32  Sacramento  75  47  
Boslon  58  38  Las Vegas  79  52  St. Louis  70  42  
Buffalo  44  30  New York  54  39  Tampa  74  44  
Chicago  67  35  New Orleans  72  40  Wash DC  57  34  


Thursday, November 4, 1999 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
STUDENT SENATE 
'Abortion survivor' tells story 

Notre Dame '5ervite Weel(

½~~......-.....K 
Join us for a week o-f servicell All -transpor"f"a-tion is providedl Pick from 1-he following lis-t-of projec-t-s: 
Saturday. November e Thu.....day. November '11 
10am-12pmLogan Center -Arts and Crafts projects 6-Bprn making pumpkin plea with Logan Center realdente 1-:30 painting classrooms at Circle of Mercy 1 :30-6:00 cleaning and painting at Dlsmae Hou­1 1 am-2pm Grace Center cleanup 
Friday, November '12 
Sunday, November 7 
3:40-5:30 Bowling with Logan Center at Beacon Bowl 1--4:30 clearlng a nature trail et Camp MIiihouse 
1--4:30 painting Broadway Christian Parish 
Saturday, November 13 12:30-3:30 painting the celling of a termlnally Ill chlld 11arn-2pmEI Buen Vecino clean-up 
1-pmdecoratlng Logan Industries for Thanksgiving
Monday, November B 
1--430pmpalntlng classrooms at Circle of Mercy6-B:30pmcleanlng the home of a dlsebled p&r-=>n 
**Sponaora for these projects Include La Allanz:a, Lyona
Tue•day, November 8 
Hall, VVomen·e Running Club, Big Brothe.-e. The Ob-rver,
10:30am-12 making Thankaglvlng table 
ADE, Toastmasters, Lewie Hall, and Pangborn Hall. decoration• at Logan Center 
2:'18-8:30pm painting at Hope R-cue Mlaalon 
To sign up, just emaU doyle.45«Ynd.edu with your name, phone number, and the project you want to do!!! 
Space is limited thr some projects. so sign up early!! If'you have nny questions, call:, Doyle (x081 I) or l\,Jntt Banach (xl648) 
By MAUREEN SMITHE News Writer 
The rights of unborn babies depend on the generation of today and the guidance of God. according to Dawn Kober. who calls hersell' an "abortion survivor." 
"You aru the country's future. It is exciting to me that you am the generation that will make a dif'l'ernnce," Kober said in a lecturn spon­sored by Notre Damn Hil{ht to Lifo. "Your stand on abortion doPs mak11 a difference, but 11<1 matter what cause we stand for or how noble our intentions am. we can't do it without tho grace of God." 
Kober's stance on abortion arose out of very personal circumstances. At the agn of 
21. Kober attended a Pro­Choice rally at the urging of a co-worker. 
"To mu at that time. abor­tion did not signify the death of a baby. No one helped me to understand what it is ­that it is tlrn murder of a baby and not a solution," she said. 
Upon her arrival back home from tho march, Kober was "excited to watch the news coveragn. I figured that from my father's 'l'low1H­child' background that he would bo proud ol' me fur 
csc 
taking a stand." 
However, with a soberness that she had never before seen, Kober described how her father proceeded to explain that he and her birth mother were just 19 and 20 when her mother became pregnant. "A baby did not fit into the dreamscape of her life," Kober 1;;aid. 
At that time, abortion was illegal and expensive. It took lrnr rather 11 weeks to find the necessary $500 and a clinic. After the short proce­dure, Kober's father and b i r t h mother 
w e r c eyed lit­
"You are the country's future. It
told to tle girl," 
wait 48 is exciting to me that you are Kober 
hours the generation that said. l'or the Kober
will make a difference. " 
process said she to be draws C O m -Dawn Kober on her plcte, o w n
lecturer 
but "to God 's credit and absolutely none other the abortion failed," she said. "Where abortion is concerned, I am a very rare case." 
On February 7, 1968, Kober was born a healthy 7­pound girl without a trace of injury from the attempted abortion. Eleven months later, Kober's mother aban­doned hei· and her father. 
leaving Kober with "low self­esteem, fear of rejection and avoidance of conflict," she said. 
When she finally reconnect­ed with her mother at the age of 21 due to a chance encounter, Kober said they failed to find a common bond. 
"I wanted her to think that I was very sophisticated and I was expecting to feel that wav. No matter how hard I tried to be 21, it was as if all of my hurt and resentment and bitterness came on me. I felt like a wide­
experi­ences to inspire herself and others. 
"I would love to see a law come into effect where women who are in for an abortion be required to hear their babv's heartbeat before the procedure is carried out," she said. "I speak to you tonight on behalf of all unborn Dawns who would have been our future genera­tion." 
Weu1,epMJ~-0t~~ tfk 2,013 ~ tfw.t ~e ~vh-tlk pa4 20 ~ 
~~uJ.½ttk 
~ f,.l,1-~ Co~ ~ tlk A~ fl»-0~,1'\, 
f4o~,1'\, ~ N-0v~ 4 @ 6 PM at,~ 
~ t,o-,, Sc~ Co~ 
By FINN PRESSLY Assis rant News Edi tor 
The Student Senate unani­mously adopted two measures last night to curb Notre Dame's involvement with the sweatshop industry. 
Keough Hall senator Brian O'Donoghuc began debate by explaining his committee's work­ing definition of a sweatshop. 
According to O'Donoghue, large companies purchase goods from manufacturers, who in turn receive their products from con­tractors. 
"[A sweatshop] is a contractor who breaks basic human rights and workers rights laws," he said. Typical abuses include child labor, poor working condi­tions and unfair wages. lie also mentioned certain instances of abuses against female workers. 
"If they find a woman who is pregnant, they force her to have an abortion so that she can still work," he said. 
The senate voted on two items: an open letter to the student body and an amendment to the Student Union constitution stat­ing that the annual "Shirt" must be obtained from companies that meet the University's criteria for fair labor practices. 
The letter calls for rosidoncn halls to bn mindful of sweatshop offenders when purchasing dorm T-shirts. O'Donoghue acknowl­edged that for residence halls, this is an exceptionally dit1icult task. 
"Wo have the printers that we choose, but we don't always know where [the shirts them­selves] came from," he said. 
Director of Student Activities Joe Cassidy agreed with O'Donoghue, stressing that print­ing companies obtain blank shirts from wherever they can, and sometimes this allows for sweatshop products to he intro­duced. 
O'Donoghue commended the University for its work in elimis nating swnatshop labor. 
"This is by no means an attack on the University," he said. "The University is doing a darn good job on this issue." 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, November 4, 1999 
Specifically, Pfaff criticized the American campaign
Pfaff 
process. I-le said though it is 
continued from page 1 
its current foreign policies, it could be looking at some seri­ous economic pains, he said. 
•·we are going to see an intense economic-industrial competition in which neither side will win." if relations fail to break from their current states, Pfaff warned. 
Pfaff went on to argue that the biggest problem adding to the growing European resent­ment of the United States is the current U.S. political system itself. 
"No other serious country conducts its political life this way," he said. 
common in democracies that campaigns m~cessarily ge111>rate large amounts of funds, the lev­els seen in American campaigns am outrageous. lt forces candi­dates into deals -and eventual debts -with businesses and special interest groups, who then force politicians' hands in dealing with foreign policy. 
Unless the U.S. is able to rec­ognize the problems inherent with its current political process and deal with them according.ly, the United States is going to experience a serious economic decent, Pfaff said. 
He warned, "Just as the United States buys American. Europe will buy European." 
"Soap Bubble Geometry" 
Thursday, November 4 
7:30 pm 138 DeBartolo 
Professor Frank Morgan, Williams College Soap Bubble Demonstrations and Explanations 
NO MATH BACKGROUND REQUIRED!! Everyone is welcome!! 


-------------~----------------------­
ride with a friend of a friend and listen to 8 hrs. of Glam Metal. call a cab and tick my parents off. 
------------------------------------·-------­
----------------------------·-----------------------------------­

-----------_______ ·. -------------------------------------------~~ ---. -~-= -::::..::~. -~-· ---------· ------:-:::~-------------­-----~-----_···.• __ ·-.·-__ --·:·_-----·-----­------=------------------------··-· ___ ------------------------------------. -----------.· 
~E~f!ff:~~~!~eru~:!!f:i~;fE:~!!!~~::~~E!~!;ff!~m~~~~=~~~!:t!f~=~f~!~!;Mi!~-i~~~;!!!!~~~;;;~; rmr ~~:~~~ii!!::-;ik~:·!t~;ii;!~~;~~~~~k?~t~~;:~~~!~!!~~!:~~~!~!i~f:'!j;;:-~~~iifi~ 
"•~' ,,_•._, ----.,.~ ,., .~""'' r11.•~c• .~-,,,.. "i' .,-~..-,,,~.-·• • ,,~,-,c-!,. !":"•; -:_:,•--,,.•,,.,.,,._,._c.,-~. '"'•-'-• ,..,.,.. .,,,,,,,,.._..,7_.!,1',1. 
e I •fl 
Reptv Forward Delete 
Hey: 
Goto www.collegetravelnetwork.com. SNL in NYC, BABY! Register your name on their site and we could win and live it up in N -Y -C: RT plane tickets, phat hotel room, txts to SNL LIVE! LIVE! LIVE! Yeeehhhaawwww ... 

.... 
No purchase necessary, void where prohibited. Contest begins 10/15/99 and ends 11 /30/99. Contest open to U.S. residents age 18 and over. Further restrictions, entry form and complete rules available at www.collegetravelnetwork.com. 

-

Paramedics unload a victim of the Gasworks Park Office building shooting at Harborvlew Medical center In Seattle Wednesday. Two men were killed and two injured when a gunm~n I~ camouflage gear walked Into a Seattle shipyard office and opened fire in the second U.S. workplace shooting m two days. 
U.S. rocked by second shooting 
Thursday, November 4, 1999 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Chechen man charged with 
apartment bombings 
MOSCOW 
l'olicn havn lilod charges against oun man in 1hn apartmnnt bombing-s that killed some 300 pnopln in Hussia this fall, the lntcrl'ax news agnncy rnportnd. Tim report did not name tho suspect. tlrn first pNson to be cl:arged in t.h.c blasts. but said Im was loyal to Chechen m1lt­tunts. Hussian officials have blamed the ,ixplo­sions -two in Moscow and two in othor cities -on pm1pl<i linked to Islamic militants based in Chf'chnyu. hut havn provided few details to support those claims. Hussia launched altacks ori tho militants after tlwy invaded Dagostan in August and SeptPmber. 
Doctors discover additional uses of Prozac 
WASIIINGTON 
Tht' popular anUch!prPssant Prozac also should be approved as a treatment fur a s1wcrn l'orm of' premenstrual syndrome, advis­MS to the Food and Drug Administration decided Wednesday. Premenstrual com­plaints, ranging from breast tenderness and bloating to anxiety and mood swings, affect 3 pnrcent to 5 percent of women of childbearing age. But doctors say there is a more severe probl,m1 called premenstrual dysphoric disor­der. or PMDD, which caus11s a smaller mun­her of women such symptoms as poor concen­tration, depression and anger. Doctors alrnady routlnnly proscribe a numbnr of anti­d1ipressants, such as Prozac, to treat PMDD. The FDA has not specifically approved them as l'MDD treatments, but it is higal for doctors to prescribe drugs for any purpose. 
Canada accepts gay scouts 
TOH.ONTO 
A scouting troop for gay and lesbian young adults has been set up in Toronto, apparently tho first of its kind in North America. The I29th Toronto Scouting Group, which began meeting recently, is the same as any other troop except for the sexual orientation of its memlrnrs, said troop co-founder Bonte Minrrnma. Open to people aged 18-26 -a level or scouts called !lovers, the oldest group in thn Canadian program -it describes itself as a gay and lesbian troop. "There isn't nne in Canada and they're not allowed in the IUnitPd! Stalns," Minnema said. In the United States. lawyers for the Boy Scouts of America haV(\ askl'd the Supreme Court to maintain thn organization's ban on gays. The move fol­lows an August decision by the New Jersey Supreme Court, which ruled that the Boy Scouts had illegally discriminated against an assistant scoutmaster dismissed because lrn rnvPalml his homosexuality in a newspaper article. 
MUMM,&i: 1113 
AMEX:
Dow 80·U)8 
-0.44
JONES Up: Nasdaq: 1406 
3028.51
10~00 
+46.88 
1111 
LJ 
NYSE: Down: 621.46 1149 
+3.00 
S&P 500: Composite 
Volume:
135-t93
+27.20 904,600,000
+7.19 VO I IJ M t: L F ,\ D E R S 
l.011DMX llr.lU. at, ,111&1 1 iiMUI II.cl 
lNTEL CORP  ttJ1'C  +2 .90  ,,.,soo  79. 7t-,  
CISCO SY5'l'EMS  csco  ·2,'H  -2,000Q  71.50  
f"llCROSOF"I" CORP  MSfT'  -0. 61  ~0.562S  92 .00  
Df:L.L COMPUTl!R ORACLE COftP PHILIP MORRtS  OE:L.l, ORC'L MO  •l. 97 •8. 13 .. p; .{?.  +0.812.S •'1,3100 t 1 .1~00  42 .oo s1.:n 27 75  
'l"YC'O INTL t.Tll  TYC  .J.80  •l ,500-0  41.00  
Cff.NA COKP  CI!:H  •16.19  •S ."J!iOO  40.00  
!iUN M!CIWS'l'ST'Dt  $\j~  •2 ..,.,  •2 .8725  106. 56  
AMER IC-' ~LIN!  AOL  t4 .10  t6 .2550  l l 9. 38  

orld 
I ¦ 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES 
page 5 

Associated Press 
SEATTLE 
A gunman wearing a dark overcoat over camou­flage clothing opened fire Wcdnsday in the office of a ship repair company, killing two people and wounding two others. A search is under way for the attacker, police said. 
Police used dogs in the hunt through the largely residential Wallingford neighborhood. At least a dozen schools in the area north of downtown Seattle were locked down with the children inside while the search continued, police said. 
The shooting happened about 10:30 a.m. in an office of Northlake Shipyard on the north shore of Lake Union, police said. 
"Ile walked in and start­ed shooting. That's all we know," said Pam 
RUSSIA 
Power plants prepare for Y2K bug 
McCammon, a police Christie-Lynne Bonner. spokeswoman. The suspect, described 
One man died at the as possibly in his 30s, was scene, and three others wearing the overcoat and were wounded. The second camouflage clothing along victim died at Harborview with a brown hat when he Medical Center, police at walked in a back door of the hospital said. the business and started-
Hospital fir in g, spokesman police said. Larry Zalin "It's almost a surreal Jeannie 
said one type ofsituation, Parr, who 
m a n was in an
faced with what the 
remained in office critical con­nation went through across the dition. The in Hawaii yesterday." hallway 
other victim, from the a 19-year­scene, said old man, Scottie Pierce she was was in satis­Seattle native about 6 factory con­feet from dition with a gunshot where the shootings took wound in the right arm. place. 
One victim told detec­"He came in calmly," she tives that the four who told Northwest Cable were injured -all employ­News. "I didn't hear any ees of Northlake Shipyard sounds of a confrontation -were in the office when or argument. ... All I heard the shooter came in, and was gunshots." that none knew him, said Christian Weber, presi­police spokeswoman dent of a Web page design 
across the countrv. 
The company" allotted less money than engineers asked for in 1998 in order to fix the problem. officials said. Planners wanted $28 million but UES allotted only $8 million. 
UES deputy chairman Alexander Remezov said the company made up for the shortfall with a plan to use manual controls. 
"We can't give a 100­pcrcent guarantee that not one of these many systems will fail," said Hemezov. Ile said generating plants will have a week of coal or fuel oil reserves on hand at the New Year. 
There has been wide concern about electricity and other infrastructure failures in Russia with the year change, prompting the U.S. Embassy to tell non-essential American personnel to spend the year-end holidays outside the country. 
But Russians themselves have shown relatively little concern. Service interrup­tions almost matching worst-case scenarios for .Jan. 1 strike Hussia fre­quently for other reasons. 
company, said he came back from lunch to find police all around his office building near the scene. 
"I hope my friends and employees are all right," he said. "I hope they find him and he's not still here when they leave." 
Scottie Pierce of Seattle Boat, across the street from the shipyard building, said he was sending his employees home early. 
"It's almost a surreal type situation. faced with what the nation went through in Hawaii yester­day," he told Northwest Cable News. ''I'm quite concerned that there's someone running around with a gun." 
Seven people were shot to death Tuesday at a Xerox Corp. building in Honolulu. The suspected gunman, a Xerox employ­ee, fled after the slayings and surrendered hours later. 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW 
Hussia's electricity monopoly will shift its huge grid to manual con­trol on Dec. :n tn ensure it avoids "millennium bug" outages, system officials said Wednesday. 
Russia is considered one of the countries most vul­nerable to potential prob­lems when the changeover from 1999 to 2000 is expected to effect many computers whose chronometers cannot dis­tinguish between the years 2000 and 1900. 
Although Russia has pro­portionately fewer comput­ers than more developed countries, it also apparent­ly has done less to prcparn them for the new year than have the majority of Western countries_ 
Managers at United Energy Systems, Hussia's electricity monopoly, said at a news conference that they are 95 percent ready for the date flip-over. 
The company has checked about 50,000 computer systems which guide the flow of power 
page 6 The Observer . NEWS Thursday, November 4, 1999 
Dead heat in Miss. Governor's race 
Associated Press 
JACKSON, Miss. 
The Dnmocrats seemed headed for victory in Mississippi's race for gover­nor Wednesdav, after a dead­lock between the top two can­didates made it almost certain the contest would be decided wilh an unprecedented vote in the stat11 House. 
When the 122 legislators ­86 of them Democrats -con­vene in January. they may have to do what 750,000 vot­ers couldn't: setlle the contest between Democratic Lt. Gov. Ronnie Musgrove and Republican former Rep. Mike Parker. 
A victory for Musgrove would bi• a big win for the Democrats. who took Southern governor­
ships from 
"It looks like we haoe the Tuesdav.
the GOP 
includi~g
key to the Governor's 
last year in 
mayoral
Alabama Mansion. All we have to 
elections in
and South 
do is push open the door the tradi­
Carolina. 
tional GOP
They lost and go in." 
strongholds
Mississippi 
0 f 
to Gov. Kirk 
Rep. George Flaggs Indianapolis
Fordice in 
Democrat a n d
1991, whim he became the first Republican to hold the office since Reconstruction. 
Musgrove received about 6,500 more votes in Tuesday's election than Parker. But Musgrove fell short of the 50 percent-plus required !'or outright victory. An independent and a Reform Party candidate split 14.000 votes that would have made the difference. 
lf absentee ballots don't break the stalemate, the state Constitution calls for the elec­tion to be decided in the House. And that prospect troubles Hepublicans far more than Democrats. 
"It looks like we have the key to the Governor's Mansion. All we have to do is push open the door and go in," said state Hep. George Flaggs, a Democrat. 
The Constitution requires a winning candidate to have a majority or not just tho popu­lar vote but also of the elec­toral vote. That means carry­ing a ma,jorily of the 122 leg­islative districts. Election offi­cials were working to analyze the returns to determine how those districts voted. 
House Speaker Tim 1,'ord, a Democrat. said that if it turns out Parker won the electoral votes, he would have as strong a mandate as Musgrove would for winning tho popular vote. 
"If Mike Parker happens to get a majority of the electoral vote, he has just as much claim on the governorship as Ronnie does." said Ford. "It's not over." 
But even Ford acknowl­edged Parker would have a hard time winning a vote in the House. 
The race is being watched closely because both parties are hoping to claim momen­tum heading into the 2000 presidential and congression­al races. 
Elsewhere around the coun­try, Democrats captured sev­
eral key 
r a c e s 
Columbus, 
Ohio, and in Philadelphia. where a Republican fell just short of breaking the Democrats' 47­year hold on the office. Democrat Paul Patton cruised to re-election as Kentucky's governor. 
"We had a very positive day on the electoral front as far as Democrats were concerned," White House spokesman Joe Lockhart said. President Clinton called several victori­ous Democrats to congratu­late them, including Musgrove, Lockhart said. 
Republlcans pointed to their historic sweep of the Virginia's General Assembly and GOP businessman Sam Katz's showing in Philadelphia, where Republicans are outnumbered nearly 4-to-1. 
They also held on to a key seat in Washington state that prevented a Democratic sweep there. 
"I won't pretend that there's any clear national partisan message to be drawn from the various results around the country," Republican Natimial Committee Chairman Jim Nicholson said. 
LASALLE BOOKSTORE 
We' re your source for the best theological and philosophical books-we can special order any book you need! 
Anniversary Sale! 
20% OFF ALL BOOKS 
NOVEMBER 8-12 
LASALLE BOOKSTORE • 234-0003 • lasalle@michiana.org 237 N. Michigan St. (at LaSalle), downtown So. Bend 
Now open until 6:00 p.m. Tuesday and Thursday! 
Open 10-5 Mon/\iVed/Fri, and 11-6 Tues/fhurs 
Sullivan 
continued from page 1 
treatment of "the common man" by various companies. Motivated by the desire to change unethical business practices in 1977's apartheid system in South Africa. Sullivan wrote the Sullivan Principles. These were an early attempt to provide guidelines for corporate conduct, but were not readily accepted internationally. 
Despite the lack of popularity with the Sullivan Principles, Sullivan has held fast to his belief that changes are necessary in the corporate world. Most recently, Sullivan finished the "Global Sullivan Principles for Corporate Responsibilities," which were announced at the headquarters of the United Nations in New York. 
"Oh, it's not rosy in America," said Sullivan. "There is much that needs to be done." 
Sullivan encouraged the audi­ence to challenge unfair business practices and to fight for the dis­advantaged workers, saying that problems will not disappear as people sit passively and ignore them. 
"My faith is an active faith." he said. "Those of us who believe in God must match our prayer with action." 
Sullivan warned that condi­tions for the poor could worsen in America if no steps are taken to reduce them. He referred lo statistics of rising unemployment rates among African-Americans and Hispanics. 
"All is not well," Sullivan stated repeatedly. 
Sullivan made clear that he didn't think America's govern­ment system was the cause of all conflicts among people and busi­ness. He said that people arc refusing to acknowledge any problems. Through Biblical examples and anecdotes about people who overcame obstacles, Sullivan encouraged the audi­ence to become leaders. 
"The best in us can be real­ized," said Sullivan. 
Past recipients of the Notre Dame Award include Mother Teresa of' Calcutta, Jimmy Carter and his wife, Rosalynn. 
snack bar in Madelcva helps quell the rush. 
"During the lunch hour, it relieves a little bit of stress at the snack bar in IIaggar because we all tend to come in at once," said professor Mary Connolly. "This is a very high traflic build­ing and it makes sense to have it available." 
The snack bar at Madeleva is open from 7:30 a.m. to 2 p.m., Monday through Friday. 
Snack Bar 
continued from page 1 
helps me stay awake and pay 
attention," she said. 
Professors agree. 
"llfl I have coffee from the lounge, it is nasty. It has no t1a­vor. When I go to the snack bar and get a cup of coffee, I really enjoy it. So for me, it is worth the investment of 79 cents," said professor Linnea Vacca. 
Secretary  Mary  Beth  
Dommenelo also  feels it  is  
worthwhile.  

·•1 think it's a nice thing. It augments the selections in the one vending machine we have here," she said. 
A very long line usually accu­mulates at the snack bar in Haggar at lunchtime. with stu­dents arriving from classes. The 
NOW OPEN 
Bombay Boutique 
Edison Plaza• 1635 Edison Road• Corner of Edison and 23 • Next door to LULA'S CAFE 271-8865 Monday-Saturday 10 am -8 pm Sunday 12 pm -6 pm 

Large Selection Of: 
• 
v\"'i9 l,,\e d ...-esses, ski l"ts, aV\d blov\ses f...-orn casl,,\al to elegant 

• 
tland-knit sweate...-s, jackets, 9 loves, mittel'\s1 caps f...-om Ecv\adov­

• 
Bedspl"eads fl"-om Jhdia 

• 
Silvev-~·ings and eav-1"11'\gs 

• 
Shiv--+s fov--me1-1 


• 
BroV\ze Buddhas a1-1d othel" l"eli9ious al"t 

• 
Papyi--<l,,\S paintings from Egypt 

• 
JV\ceV\se and incense holdel"s 

• 
t--land-cav'"ved wooden boxes • Stone cav'"vi1-1gs 

• 
t--lahd-ca...-ved mahogany and teak ft-1l"nitu...-e 

• 
A1-1d much mo...-e! 



Gift Certificates Available 
.. ...... --~---­
Thursday, November 4, l 999 The Observer . BUSINESS NEWS page 7 
Vitamin makers owe $1.05 billion in price-fixing decision 
earlier this year to criminal dants,'' said Robert Silver, a "We have been able to prove than the overcharges but less
t\ssociat~d Press 
price-fixing charges brought by partner with Boies & Schiller of in the last few months we are a than the triple damages to 
the U.S. govlwnment, more than Armonk. N.Y., the law firm reliable business partner" a which could be entitled after a
WASlllNGTON 
a year after the private suits which filed the first federal spokesman for Roche said in trial. Antitrust law also requires
Snven big vitamin makers 
were first filed. The agreement action in a suit that ultimately Zurich, adding: "We do not con­the payment of legal fees. 
signed an agreement 
will require the approval of a attracted about 50 law firms. done this activity." Most of the companies soldWlldncsday to pay $1.05 billion 
judge. The seven companies are The companies will pay vitamin mixes to food compa­to purchasers because tho man­"I think this is unprecedented Roche Holding, Hoechst AG, lawyers fees of $122 million, nies and feed companies, which
ufacturers fixed the prices of 
for an antitrust class action, in BASF AG, Rhone-Poulenc SA, raising their total payment to blended them into cereals, ani­bulk vitamins used in foods and terms of the absolute amount Takeda Chemical Industries nearly $1.18 billion. Roche will mal feeds and other products.
animal feeds. 
and in terms of the overcharge Ltd., Eisai Co. Ltd., and Daiichi pay the biggest Most of the r Tho companies pleaded guilty 
recovered from the defcn-Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd. , chunk of the set­companies
'This settles about 
tlement, likely pleaded guilty to 
more than half. 90 percent or more criminal price­The companics ofthe claims." fixing in the sale sold about $7 bil­of the mixes and lion worth of vit­vitamins A. B2,
David Boles
amins between 85, C, E and 1990 and 1998 to attorney Beta Carotene. 
U.S. companies, Rhone-Poulenc such as Kraft and was not charged Kellogg, lawyers for the plain­because it cooperated with the tiffs said. government. 
"This settles about 90 percent Hoechst pleaded guilty to or more of the claims," David criminal price-fixing on sor­Boies, of Boies and Schiller, told bates, which are preservatives District Court Judge Thomas used in high-moisture and high­Hogan at a hearing where the sugar foods such as cheese and agreement was officially baked goods. announced. Top executives for several of 
Hogan said he would consider the world's biggest vitamin the agreement and decide makers held secret annual whether to give it preliminary meetings to divide up world approval. markets, setting vitamin prices 
The victimized companies will to the penny, according to U.S. recover between 18 and 20 per­Justice Department officials in
For over 80 years, TIAA-CREF has Surprisingly low expenses 
cent of the charges, far more one of the earlier cases. been the leading retirement company 
TIAA-CREF's operating costs are among 
on America's campuses. But experience is 
the lowest in the insurance and mutual 
just one reason why so many smart 
fund industries.2 So more ofyour money 
investors tnist us with their financial 
goes where it should -toward ensuring future. Here are a few more: . 
your future. 
TN-E'· :_Rl'AS.ONS 
Easy diversificationSuperior strength 
We offer a wide variety of expertly
With over $250 billion in assets under man­managed investment options to help build 
TO ·-1'-~ll-TY 41l·E'
agement, TIAA-CREF is the world's largest your assets. We make it simple, too, with
retirement organization -and among the stock, bond, money market, real estate, 
most solid. It's one of the reasons why and guaranteed options.
Morningstar says, "TIAA-CREF sets the standard in the financial services industry."1 
Unrivaled service 
We believe that our service distinguishes 
Solid, long~term 
us from every other retirement company. 
performance 
In the most recent Dalbar survey, We seek out long-term opportunities that TIAA-CREF ranks tops in participation other companies, in pursuit of q4ick gains, satisfaction:~ often miss. Though past performance can't · Call today to find out how TIAA­guarantee future results, this patient philos­CREF can help you build the financial ophy has proven extremely rewarding. future you want and deserve. 
To find out more -give us a call or visit our website 
I 800 842-2776
~ Ensuring the future for those who shape it... www.tiaa-cref.org 
I,11,,,..,_ Vwllr Au.ili,,,tlif,. 6131Wl. zs,.,J,,,J~~ ,,..,:,1....,..,. &tu1AMl,,i.,, l'l'l'J; ...t l.ippu Anaty,;,,,J 5e...,.,.,_ Inc., r.;,,,r.o;,,,,,,,,'A.alylin,I D.ta, 1999 (quaneny). loALBAR. In,., /HT D,fo,,Ji:...t,;J,,1.,,.£.rrdf,.,., R,,1i-.,. 'Por ""'"' compl.t. informarion, ,..,I~charp md ...,....._ c.U 1800 IM2-273.1, ..,, 5600, fo.-CRl!P and TIM Ru! !!,we Acrount -·-LR.al them canfully h,fon, Y"" ...... (K ..nc1-.TIM-CREI' lndiooual and lm1i,..ioaal Service, dutributH CREI' ceni6oales .... inte-•i.n '"" TIM R.,J tt..11u~ Acrou.nt. 
8199 
• MEN_'S BASKETBALL
@11 VOLLEYBALL 
Friday Foreign Exhibition 7:30pm
Sat v. Syracuse 1:00pm 
MEN'S and WOMEN'S
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
SWIMMING
Sun v. Ohio All-Stars 2:00pm 
Saturday v. TCU 1:00pm 

LET TIAA-CREF HELP YOU BUILD ASECURE FINANCIAL FUTURE. 


page 8 The Obser1Jer . NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, November 4, 1999 

Clinton vetos GOP school bill . 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton delivered on his pledge Wedncsd~y to veto a massive Republican b.ill financing education and other social programs as both sides sought to solidify bargaining positions in budget talks. 
Congress sent I.he $314 bil­lion measure for schools, health and labor on Tuesday -the last of the 13 annual spending bills for the month­old fiscal 2000. Clinton has criticized its education priori­ties and the 0.97 percent across-I.he-board cut the mea­sure would make in all pro­posed agency budgets. 
"Ii fails to value our deepest values," Clinton said during a Rose Garden appearance marking the veto. 
He said the bilI did not pro­vide enough money for his plan to help local school dis­tricts hire 100,000 more teachers, and falls short in other areas. 
"We value fiscal responsibili­ty, but this bill abdicates that responsibility by imposing across the board cuts that clearly will damage vital prior­ities," Clinton said. 
Meanwhile, White House budget chief Jack Lew was due back at the Capitol to resume budget bargaining, which was expected to focus for the second straight day on foreign aid. 
• 
0 TIIIJRSDAYMGIIT 80's JUGHf 


Brad Metz, C.S.C. • Irish Guard 1992-95 Ordination Date: April 6, 2002 
Can you make this team? 

ANSWER ~ THECALL '<!Y 

Fr. Jim King, C.S.C. Fr. Bill Wack, C.S.C. 
www.nd.edu/-vocation 

We encourage everydi;i.e to run in the 2 mile road race~ prizes will be awarded'for spirit as well as for speed!!! 
"'I( 
Looktopre,.Iegister: $10 at the dining halls mee(at:10:3,0; l'Ul],bl!gins at 11 :00 Lyoiisn:B~kbtbfilt Courts
,,, C ~ ., • • .,-., ~ • ,••J 
r $12 day~of 
t 
price includes long sleeve t-shirt and continental breakfast questions: Leigh 4-2804 or Erin 4-I 497 \j 
The Department of Music presents 
The Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra 

.. 1i' .Ji,--,~~-V' '\-•~•_-.__..,••,'f·"'°'"''"'.,•..,..-..,..•"-"'"f"•t-~:P"".,.,..,.,..,.,,f',.'1'•~-"'""'-.,,--./'•r'!f-..__.,.,.a.,~ .:•'".1.,.•1a~Y•':_~....""+-=',.:i!"---5--:,,,:t-~.,,. -.,-~~,,.,,..,~.,-.•-.-..."f'..,_~-i#--_,.-._-__,..__••-...---• ---.., ., .., . .., .. ____ ...... ,.,._ •·• ---.,,._.-..---•·-·•.., -·-• .._..._ ,._) 
'' 
Thursday, November 4, 1999 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 

Aveda 1Color,Cut.Style I I Cut & I I Perm, Cut, I I Hilites & I 1 Retail 1 IOne Process I I Style I I & Style I I Cut & Style I L--_.J L----.J L-----1 L----.J L----.J 
Please use the Special Savings invitation anu get to know us. You'll be pleased with the quali­ty and service we provide, and we will do our best to merit your confidence and patronage. 
We hope to see you soon. 
Nm valid for spiral perms. Long or tinted hair add $10. No other discounts 11pply, Open some evenings. ATRIA Salon reserves the right to rcfu.sc service to any clienf whose hair condition is unsuitable. 
NEW CLIENTS ONLY 
Must Be Presented To Receptionist Before Services Are Performed 
(Certain Restrictions Apply) Valid with: Amy or Ariane Expiration Date: December 15, 1999 
1357 N. Ironwood Drive South Bend, IN 46615 Tel. 219-289-5080 FAX: 2 l 9-289-8804 
Associated Press 
LARAMIE, Wyo. 
A 22-yoar-old man was con­victed of murder Wednesday in the beating of gay college stu­dent Matthew Shepard and could gHt the death penalty after a trial in which the defense portrayed Shepard as a sexual aggressor. 
The jury of seven men and five women returns Thursday to begin hearing evidence in the sentencing phase for Aaron McKinney, a roofer and high school dropout who was one of two,men arrested in the slaying of the University of Wyoming student. 
Shepard was lured last year from a bar, lashed to a fence, bludgeoned in the head with a pistol and left to die on the cold prairie i.n a case whose brutali­ty led to demands for hate" crime Jaws across the country. 
The other man arrested, 22­year-old Russell Henderson, pleaded guilty in April to kid­napping and murder and is serving two life sentences. 
Frances Moore Lappe, Author 
Building Community Means Building Power 
Friday, November 5, 1999 at 7:30 PM in the University of Notre Dame's Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
(informal reception to follow) 
Come hear Frances Moore Lappe author of and/or co-author of 12 books including Diet for aSmall E:l.anct., Rediscovering America's Values and~ Quickening of America: Rebuilding our Nation, ~.and co-founder of the Food and Development Policy and the Center for Living Democracy. 
fR,1r,:rn Mo,,r.E lmf P,1tn MAilW,1 Du Brn5 
1i,141-1r,it mn-mff ~ ~" 1•u1rr,rr 
tnu1cKEN1NG• 

' '~Af\ERJCA fl 
II
ii 
csc 
CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
McKinney convicted of murdering Shepard 

This lecture is sponsored by the Andrews McMeel Universal Foundation 
& 
The Center for Social Concerns 
THIS EVENT IS FREE AND OPEN TO THE PUBLIC 
The jury deliberated for I 0 hours over two days. 
As the jury was about to announce its verdict, McKinney stood impassively next to his lawyers, his arms crossed. When the first verdict was read -guilty of kidnapping -his arms dropped to his sides. His father, William, looked straight ahead with no emotion. 
Shepard's parents, Dennis and Judy, held hands and looked ahead, expressionless. Neither McKinney's father nor the Shepards would comment. The lawyers on both sides are prohibited from commenting by a gag order. 
McKinney's lawyers had sought to use a "gay panic" defense based on the theory that some men are prone to an uncontrollable, violent reaction when propositioned by a homo­sexual. 
They argued that McKinney flew into a drPg-influenced rage after Shepard grabbed his crotch while the two rode in a pickup truck. The defense claimed that the alleged advance triggered memories for McKinney of a childhood homosexual assault. 
District Judge Barton Voigt, however, disallowed the "gay panic" defense, ruling that it was similar to temporary insanity or a diminished-capac­ity defense -both of which are prohibited under Wyoming law. 
As a result, the defense called just seven witnesses, including two men who testified that Shepard made unwelcome advances toward them, but ,vere not allowed to call experts to discuss McKinney's mental state. 
The jury convicted McKinney of felony murder, kidnapping and aggravated robbery. It rejected a first-degree premedi­tated murder charge that said McKinney had planned the attack. 
Under Wyoming law, a defen­dant can get the death penalty if a slaying occurs during the commission of another felony, such as kidnapping. 
Jeffrey Montgomery, director of the gay rights group Triangle Foundation, said the outcome indicates the defense was suc­cessful in convincing jurors of the "gay panic" theory. 
"It struck a chord in some of the jury where they could have some level of understanding that that kind of provocation would result in that kind of reaction -a violent outburst of anger," he said. 
But David Smith, spokesman for the Human Bights Campaign, a gay lobbying group, called the verdict "a repudiation of that strategy." 
Prosecutors said McKinney and Henderson robbed Shepard of $20. Shepard, his skull cracked, died in a hospital live days after the beating. Investigators said the robbery was the primary motive but that the slightly built Shepard also was singled out because he was gay. 
The slaying led to vigils around the country and demands for laws protecting homosexuals from such crimes. 
Bill Dobbs, a gay lawyer and civil rights advocate, said he is dreading the ponalty phaso. 
"This may be the close of one chapter in the Matthew Shepard case," he said, "but a second, very ugly chapter looms: the possible execution of Aaron l\1cKinney." 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE page 10 BSERVER Thursday, November 4, 1999 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, None Dame, IN 46556 0l4 Sourh Oin111g Hall, Nmre Dame, IN 4655C. 
EDITOR IN ClilEF Michelle Krupa 
MANAGING EDITOR  IJUSINE.>S MANAGER  
M. Shannnn Ryan  David Rogero  
AssT, MANAGING EDITOR  
Laura Petelk  

NEWS EDJTOR: Tim Logan VU:.Wl'OINT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughen SroRT5 EDITOR: Brian Kessler 
SCENE EorroR: Michael Vanegas SAIITT M.wv's EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Dalu111 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Btyan Lutz 
AD DESIGN MA.'<AGER: Bret Huelnt SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kushro 
CONTROLLER: Timothy Lane GRAPHICS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFO............. 63)-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 AoVl!RTISING.....................................631-6900/8!!40 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EmTOR/AssT. ME.. ..................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICI........................................631-53]3 NEWS .......................................... ................631-5323 observer.obsnews. J@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................63 J-4543 observer.sports. J@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAJNT MARY's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc.l@nd.edu PHOTO............................................. ...........631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS ................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire at http://ob,ervtr.nd.edu for daily updates of campus news, sports, fearures and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from rbe Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-ro-rhe 
movies/music for 
minute forecasrs 
weekly student reviews 
advenise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rates ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
to meet the editors and
articles published ali:er 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independem, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame du Lac a11d Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurarely and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoim space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include comact information. 
Qwstions rrgarding Observerpo/icier should be dirert­ed to Editor in Chief Mich,l!e Kmpa. 
Each Monday and Wednesday, I jour­ney with eight or 10 other students to the LaSalle Youth Center on South Bend's West Side. We climb into one of the CSC vans and make the 15-minute ride across the river into an 
Ron Sustsko
area of run­down factories and other dilapi­
For a More Just
dated buildings. Once the center and Humane is near, we can World sense the activi­
ties and noises of any community center: the laughter of games of tag, the zigzag of touch football and the up-and-down rhythm of swings. As our van lumbers into its 
parking spot, some of the children 
excitedly shout, "The tutors are here!" 
while others flock to their favorite per­son claiming, "You're my tutor! You're gonna work with me!" As little 
Rayshaun hugs my legs and tries to jump in my arms, I lead the tutors in, 
herding the children into their respec­
tive classrooms. We set to work with our students, reading spelling lists, 
rounding numbers and struggling 
through long division. Invariably, the 
time flies and our session ends with 
high-fives, hugs and pleads by the chil­
dren to be taken back to camp1,1s. Once 
we finally depart, we head back to 
another contented night at Notre 
Dame. 
But if we knew exactly what the chil­dren experience and how different their world is from ours, I doubt these nights would be so content. When working with these children, it may seem that many of them face the same problems: lack of concentration and motivation, falling behind or not receiving enough attention. However, when viewed individually, these are not quite the "same" problems. These chil­dren are nowhere near the levels they should be. Some fourth-graders still need help with basic addition; others can not comprehend a word they read. One child can not read at all. These are not the normal setbacks of all elemen­tary children. 
The setbacks these children face are a tragedy, a problem I believe must be stopped. More importantly, I believe each of us can play a role in the solu­tion. I know we can not transform the entire education system, but we can play an amazing role in the education of these area children. These children have not been given the same gifts that have allowed us to attend this amazing University and gain a top-notch educa­tion. It seems we have an obligation to share this with the community that surrounds us. The Center for Social Concerns has made this a great deal easier and more effective with the cre­ation of the Lead Tutors program, a program of which I have been lucky to be a part. The center's program makes the tutoring efforts in which Notre Dame students can participate orga­nized, efficient and convenient. Rather than sending volunteers to many differ­ent tutoring programs, the center has focused on 11 South Bend community centers, high schools and elementary schools at which the Lead Tutors are responsible for running the tutoring programs. The result is a focused and well-organized program, as each cen­ter gains much attention and a great commitment from its tutors. 
Thanks to an increased time commit­ment and the limited number of sites, these tutoring programs have been rejuvenated into very unique and effec­tive experiences. However, tutoring is only half of the job. What the children need most are mentors. Their academ­ic problems a.re tough, but not a.s tough as the restrictions placed on them by their environments. They need a role model, a friend and a big brother/big sister. The CSC's tutoring program makes this possible. Tutors can be paired up with students in a one-to-one ratio and meet with the same student each week. This gives the students a sense of consistency and commitment -something that may be lacking from their lives. Tutors are able to develop friendships with the students and real­ly feel like they are a part of someone's life. 
For many young students, Notre Dame tutors can be a hopeful presence in their lives. I can not tell you how many children have told me that they want to go to Notre Dame or have asked if I am a football player. To them, we are larger than life. In many ways, we are their heroes, the people they want to be when they grow up. By taking part in their lives we are fulfill­ing this role. We truly can be heroes. With our help, they can be too. 
Ron Sustsko is a senior English and pre-professional major. He has been a Lead Tutor through the Center for Social Concerns since August. For a More Just and Humane World is a bi­weekly column sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns. Comments and discussions are welcome at ND.ndcn­trsc. I@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
DILBERT 
DESIGNING ACALL CENTER 
~ 
If THE EMPLOYEES GET THIS VOLUME OF CALLS PER DAY THEY WILL WISH THEY WERE 
! 
i ~ 
E 
I 8 
i5 
L.-.........~111111111111111~-....I !.........,;i=--:,i.....__-"W~ia-1 
SCOTT ADAMS 
BUT THEY  WON'T  I  DON'T  KNOW  HOW  
BE DEAD, :TU5T TOO  TO  MAKE  IT ANY  
BEATEN-DOWN  TO  MORE  INHUMANE .  
LOOK FOR BETTER JOBS.  WE CAN PUNISH  
THEM FOR NOT  
BEING CHEERFUL.  

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Religion is not a gift to God, but a debt which we owe llim. The person that doesn't have religion is not normal." 
Francis Cardinal Arinze president, Pontifical Council for lnterreligious Dialogue 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE Thursday, November 4, 1999 BSERVER 
page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Theo classes need pluralism 
The word catholic m<mns, lilerally, "including ing about these forms of' spirituality through or <:oncerning all humankind; universal." Yul it the voices and minds of their I.rue experts is quitr. ironic to considur this dnfinilion of the wrong? llll'lll wlrnn, in an olforl to uphold tho "Catholic" There is a world outsid1~ this place -a world tradition of llw Church, tlrn Universitv of Notre that will soon be home to thousands of' us. As Dame continually shuts its doors on many 11nlds we leave Notre Dame and commence our lives of' loarning highly rnlevant to areas ol' llrn uni­as educated men and women, we would do well V<'rse outsitl,~ tlH\ r<!uhn of the Catholic world. to take with us a knowledge that exlP.Dds This d1rnial of rnality is ref1ncted in the limitnd beyond the reaches of the small galaxy we've divnrsity of counms offonid at Notre Damn and chosen for ourselves. Not everyone we come 
tlm limit('(! µnrspectivr. from which Uwy are taught. I speak spr.cilically of thnsn  "Not everyone we come across ... will be God-fear­ across on the streets of Boston or in Lhe wheat fields or Kansas will be God-fearing, weekly  
coursos concorning spiritual­ity and religion. Notni Damo provid,is stu­ ing, weekly Mass-attending Catholic Christians. "  Mass-attending Catholic Christians. And for those of us who are aspiring international  
dents with vast opportunity  travelers. this situation ­ 
for spiritual growth within a Catholic sntting, yet at tlrn  Maria Perez Senior, Badin Hall  being confronted with "other­ness" ­will present itself even  

same lime offers a v11ry s<1iectiv11 11ducation of those !iC'lds pertaining lo rdigions and spiritual prac• Lie.is outside tlrn Catholic Church.. This selectivi­ty can, unl'ortunatdy, lnave students with a narrow persp(iclive of tlrn world. Yes, each and evnry student lwrn is rnquired to Lake ut least two tlrnology courses during our four years at 
Notre Dame; mw must be taken at the University (as opposmi to a study-abroad venue). But lrnw many courses have you come across in the l>AllT book which advertise any form of spiritual practice other than those vali­dated by the Catholic Church'' Very few. Even those whosn titles appear lo offor some hopP of a rdrnshing vinw of" the outside world "Christianity and World Heligions," for instancn, am taught from a Catholic-Christian point ofvinw. 
llor,s the presence of the crucifix in every classroom necessitate the absence of profes­sors. "outsiders" ifyou must. who could better explain to our eager. hungry minds the myster­ies or Buddhism. Islam and Hinduism? Is learn-more often. Don't you think it 
might help to have at least an inkling of how other pr,ople think, of how they view the cosmos. nature and man's place in the world, in an effort to make some sort of human connection'! Arc you 100 percent sure that your new boss won't boa devout Sufi Muslim who takes pleasure in engaging her new employees in intellectual discourse? Yes. there is practi­cality in educating ourselves in these ways. 
By choosing to attend this university, we may choose to accept, even embrace. its "Catholic­m~ss." We may or may not welcome the Christian spiritual guidance it offers us. But that is irrelevant from an academic perspec­tive. The University of Notre Dame is a thriving Catholic institution; but in its efforts to uphold the traditions of the Church, is it also stif1ing the true spirit of learning? 
Maria Perez Senior Badin Hall October 31. 1999 
Giuliani lacks compassion 
On Tuesday. Oct. 26, Mayor Rudolph Giuliani of' New York City declared a plan demanding that the city's estimat11d 26,000 homeless popu­lation work in exchange for a bed in a local shelter. Giuliani's proposal is aimed to begin in about 60 days -just in time !'or another New York winter. 
Giuliani commcntcd, "I think this is the high­est form of compassion and love lo help p(mple to lrnlp thcms11!ves." It will be children, the fastest growing homnlnss population in the wuntry, who will pay the price. Homeless fami­lies, frequently comprised of a single mothnr and childrm1, have issues that are not resolved hy employment. Domestic abuse illness and lack of sullicient income are factors that com­monly cause families to wander the stroets. Many times, a singl11 parent is employed when lw <If slw lwcomcs homeless. A minimum wage salary, even wlmn working excessive hours, will not cover the rent for safo housing, child­care, clothing and rood costs. It is crucial to address Lhn families critical needs before mov­ing thPm to Pmploymont. Giuliani's proposal, however. does not allow foi-this. ConscqucnLly, many men and women may decide not to seek slrnltnr becausr, thny know that thoy will not bo abln to meet the terms. This plan is destructive to families and could potl'ntially encourag1! a second generation of homeless adults. 
The adult homeless population will also suffer greatly from this plan. This proposal suggests that nrnrely d•~manding mnployrmmt will solvn individual cas«!S of honwlessness. It sounds as if tllo jobs an~ out llrnrn and that the homnloss uwn and wournn am simply too lazy to go out and work. Tlwni am countless possible !'actors, such as mentnl illness. addiction, dcprc1,sion, ahuse and uxc<issivo medical nxpm1sos. that are ol'tnn at. lhe root of homelussrn'ss. Giuliani has cxprnsscd an i11t1irest in helping people help ttwmselvr.s. Docs it not make sense to first.• adclrnss the root of Lim problem rather than maskin){ it'? Will p11opl11 unable to ktrnp work bn forced to return to the streets? I do not see any compassion or sense in this. 
The Center for the Homeless in South Bend seeks to break the cycle or homelessness through its uniquu "continuum of care." Upon entering the center, the guests' most urgent needs, including addiction, mental or physical illness and safety issues, are handled. The guests enter various classes that address per­sonal issues. such as relating to others, caring. for themselves and goal-setting. Then the guests move to a job training, placement and retention program. Guests learn about inter­viewing, whatjubs would best suit them, how to relate to their boss and fellow employees and how to keep a job. Through an in-house train­ing program, guests can practice their skills under the caring guidance of the center staff. The guests thr,n get jobs in the community and work toward selr-sufliciency. I believe the Center for the llomclcss in South Bend more accurately lits Giuliani's description of "tlw highest form of'love and compassion." 
It is my sincere hope that Mayor Giuliani will be advised of the many problems that exist in his proposal for the sake of tlrn homeless of New York City. Many horn at Notre Dame will one day be in the position to make positive poli­cy changes and give hope back to the thou­sands who are wandering the streets. 
In thP. meanwhile, I hopo that you will join me in praying for these honrnloss men, women and children and those who are currently able to hcilp save their lives. 
Marguerite Clemency Freshman Lyons Hall October 31, 1999 
DuBose killing was not justified 
If you do not think that we are living in a culturn of death, ask yourself why Demetrius DuBose had to be shot 12 times by two police oflicers in order to be subdued. Although there is evidence that DuRosf' was "coming at" the officers with nunchukas, there has been no suggestion that he even knew how to use them. llad the officers chosen to let him run when they could not subdue him initially, is thC\ro a.ny doubt that. he evr,ntually he would have been caught? Here, the officers decided to use deadly force -to take a human life -to subdue a man accused of a crime against proper­ty. They didn't shoot him once or twice, say in the arm so he would drop the nunchukas, or in the leg so he wouldn't be able to run. They shot him twelve times. 
The district attorney in San Diego said the oflicers "really didn't have a choice" and that tho shooting was justified. I disagree. Most hunters would not shoot a deer 12 times. They were not try­ing to stop Demetrius DuBose -they were trying to kill him. The officers did have a choice, and they chose death. 
Vincent Rougeau 
Associare Dean Nocre Dame Law School November 3, 1999 

I feel it is my duty to unveil yet another cancer on the Notre Dame football program. I feel very confident that Moose Krause would never utter the words "Get a life" to a Notre Dame alumnus, yet that is exactly what Michael Wadsworth said to me on Saturd1_ty when I confronted him about the lies he has told the Notre Dame community regarding his firings of Lou Holtz and John McLeod. (Lest any of you doubt me, John McLeod confirmed that he "ie~\1gned" because he was asked to.) As for Lou Holtz, I'd like to point out that someone does not resign from the only job he ever wanted without giv­ing a reason, have a complete emotional breakdown at his last press conference and take another job two years later unless that resignation was a forced OM. Ask yourself what Mr. Wadsworth has accom­plished. The only thing I can lind is a stadium that reeks of overkill with a press box that can only be described as obscene -all purchased with money that could have been used to bring University sup­port staff up to a competitive wage. He forced the resignation of an outstanding football coach who had a burning love for this university, and we can clearly see what he replaced him with. If I had committed age discrimi­nation and forced my employer into a costly lawsuit and nation­al embarrassment, I would have bP.en fired -ynt Bob 
'. 
Da#ie has his contract EXTENDED. What I saw Saturday was further proof of our coaching stairs ineptitude -130 yards in penalties, much of which resulted from personal fouls. and not one player was removed from the game and given a talking to. When the winning touchdown was scored, putting us up by a margin that could be overcome with a lield goal unless the extra point attempt was made, the head coach could not be found to instruct his team on the conver­sion. As usual, he was too busy running down the sideline play­ing cheerleader with his assis­tants. Is this how we want to be represented? 
Mr. Wadsworth, YOU get a life -I have one. I have a job that I have the appropriate qualilications for. I'm not a habitual liar. I love my Alma Mater too much to ever let it bo embarrassed, and I would never stab a friend in the back. I challonge you to come clean on the Holtz firing and to do ~he right thing for this university by replacing Bob Davie with a coach who has proven himsnlf on the field, and, more impor­tantly, off of il. Then, when you havo righted your wrongs, do your Alma Matnr a favor by submitting your resignation and returning to Canada where you can do no more harm. 
Kevin Keane '88 HammonJ, InJ. October 31. 1999 

O
THE 
page 12 BSERVER Thursday, November 4, 1999 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Mr. Holland goes ghetto, with violins 
By MIKE McMORROW Scene Movie Critic 
"Inspiring teacher" movies have become almost a genre unto themselves. They hit viewers with sentimentality and optimism that v\'111 make your best friend accuse you of being a wimp or a 
discipline required to teach these kids the violin. Alter some humorous convincing, shf' succeeds and d1welops a litt!P-pro­
gram. 
Meanwhile, she develops a romance with the frit'tld that got her the intNview in the first place (Quinn). People are less than warm at first, with the one exception 
of Isabel Vasquez 
cynic. It's a no-win (Gloria Estcfan), who
"Music of the 
battle. is the first cordial As far as these adult to address her
Heart"
types of movies go, ½ith the exception of "Music of the Heart" principal Janet plays the average Williams, who hired line. It has the obliga-lier (Angela BasseU). tory troubling stu-To be sure, dents and the obliga­Roberta is no wimp.
out of five shamrocks 
tory gifted ones. It A parent actually delivers the obligato-comes to complain ry sentiment at the Director: Wes Craven that she is too strict end with the students
· wilh th0 culmi-Starring: Meryl Streep, Ahgela
nating moment being and "yells too much." a celebration of the Bassetl, Aidan Quinn, Gloria Estefan and Ironically. and in one 
teacher's success. Of Cloris Leachman course. most other teachers don't like 
her at first, with the obligatory exception of one friendly one who gives her a chance. It has all the formula elements that an be expected. 
The film stars Meryl Streep as Roberta Guaspari. who. at the beginning, has just been deserted by her huband and left alone with her mother and her two sons. She decides, ambitiously, to take her friend (Aiden Quinn) up on a job interview with an inner-city school in Harlem. "It will require relocation," her friend tells her. He is making quite the understate­ment. 
But "Music of the Heart" is also a little different from most "inspiring teacher" films. Streep is a violin teacher, so she has to convince the principal of this idea of teaching 8-year-olds who live in the mid­dle of East Harlem to play violin. Even more difficult, she has to teach the kids the 
.. 
of the film's nicer 
and less-expected 
scenes, the children actually miss her austerity when Roberta tries to soften up a little . The film's middle and final act, one can easily guess, deal with budget cuts and protests, all of which culminate, of course, in a big concert where everyone gets to smile and admit even the most cynical person can't resist a little kid playing the violin in Carnegie Hall 
Streep, who is always a reliable actress, is a good choice for this role. She can exhibit the toughness in her face that com­plements her demeanor and style. And of course, she exhibits the despair and. at least for the first part of the film. the seeming hopelessness that is probable in a woman who has unexpectedly just been deserted by her husband for another woman. 
Bassett is ideal as the principle, and Quinn has the mix of panache and free-ness that is both refreshing to Roberta but ultimately inadequate. He doesn't want to commit, and she does. The film, however, spends little time on their romance. 

The emphasis, rather, is on the class­room scenes and Roberta's relationship and style with the students. Also. the vul­nerability that Roberta exhibits in her per­sonal life -after having been abandoned -wisely does not diffuse into the class­room. In this way. the dichotomy makes for an interesting character study. 
But much of the film seems quite off. lt lacks continuity in many places, and the pacing is inconsistent. There is a very slow development of characters, and then big jumps with unexplained questions, rang­ing from the development of Roberta's relationship with her boys to her own emotional development. Also, her romance with Brian is hardly explained and largely suspect. Viewers see no clear motivations for any of her actions in this regard, and the movie does not make clear the devel­opment of the relationship. This angle should never have existed at all. In addi­tion, the dialogue often feels forced and obviously scripted. Streep does the best job of rescuing an often lazy script. 
This is based on a true story about a woman named Roberta who started a vio­lin program. More interestingly, however, it is directly by Wes Craven, who uf course is famous for his place in the horror genre. Perhaps his departure explains some of the pacing problems. In the end, though, viewers are essentially left with a variation on something they have seen before. If only the film moved with a little more panache and continuity. The perfor­mances are fine, but it's not quite cohesive enough or originally laid out enough to transcend the genre to which is has sub­scribed itself. 
VIDEO PICK OF THE WEEK 
Group of teens 'Can't Hardly Wait' 
By CHRISTINE KRALY 
Scene Movie Critic 
People never again need to go to their high school reunions. To return to that time of note-passing and pep rallies, one simply has to watch "Can't Hardly Wait," a comedic look at the last night of freedom for a bunch of graduating seniors. 
Huntington Hills High has just graduated its 
senior class, and 
boy, are they
"Can't Hardly 
ready to cele­brate. Rumors fly
Wait" 
and gossipDirector: Harry Ellont and spreads (as it 
often does in high
Deborah Kaplan 
school) of the
Starring: Jennifer Love Hewitt, 
party of the year, Ethan Embry, Seth Green, Charlie a huge bash held that night for the
Korsmo and Lauren Ambrose 
departing gradu­
ates. 
The only rumor 
that could possi­bly beat this one is that Mikfl (Peter Facinelli), Huntington's varsity jock god, has just broken up with Amanda (Jennifer Love Hewitt), the gorgeous prom queen cheerleader tho school worships. 
What a perfect night !'or Preston (Ethan Embry) to proclaim his love to Amanda. After all, Pniston knows "she's more than just the prom queen or Mike's girlfriend." He knows (in some strange. psy­chic way, because he's never really spoken to her) that she's a deeper person than just the girl every girl loves to hate but wants to be. 

Photo couttesy of Columbia Pictures The real fun begins post graduation for the cast of "Can't Hardly Wait." 
It's also the perfect night for William (Charlie Korsmol to seek revenge on Mike, who has torment­ed the brainy bookworm throughout high school. William, powAred by a genius intellect and two not­so-genius. nerdy frilmds, devises a plan to humiliate Mike at the party by taking incriminating photos of him. 
What the audience learns is that Preston's right ­Amanda's not the shallow, vapid leader of the crowd. She's got fears and insecurities, just like everybody else. 
In fact, it seems everyone in the movie is trying to be someone they're not. From Kenny (Seth Green). the insecure kid who nobody wants to tell isn't as cool as he thinks, to Denise (Lauren Ambrose), Preston's angst-ridden best friend who deplores her high school peers, nobody_ seems happy with who they are. William has to disguise himself with alco­hol, becoming another drunken party-goer so he can fit in and carry out his plan of revenge. And don't forget. the "real" Amanda is hidden behind a veil of popularity and pretense. 
The party is the seniors' last chance to be stupid and without worries -the end of their innocence. They "can't hardly wait" to grow up and move on to bigger and better things. Ironically, what the char­acters in this humorous farce really can't wait for is to be taken seriously. 
The film is a commentary on what life is really like in high school -trying to fit in and have a good time doing it. Everyone's sad to see each other go in the end, but still can't wait to get on with their lives. The party encapsulates the relationships -whether fleeting or strong -people have in their adolescence. 
Preston is constantly badgered by a classmate who won't stop reminiscing about grade school, while no one at the party can get rid of' the annoy­ing girl with the yearbook to sign. The audience knows these two -they sat next to them in biology or shared a locker. They're the ones no one looks forward to seeing at the reunion. So don't -rent the movie, laugh and be happy you're at home. 
M 
c~ne E ­
O
THE 
Thursday, November 4, 1999 BSERVER page 13 
MOVIE REVIEW 
It's a not-so-haunting 'house' 
Hy MATT NANIA 
S«ne Movi(· Criric 
To say that ''llousl' on llaunh1d Hill" is scarier than tlw otlrnr big spookhousfl rnmakn ol' the year -Jan Oe !font's "Tlw Haunting'' -isn't rnally saying much. Af'tnr all. what wouldn't lw scarier than "The Haunting''" Thn upcoming l'oknmon movie is probably packed with morn thrills and ('.hills 
To its credit. "!louse on llauntnd llill'' is a little scarier than your typieal afternoon cartoon. But puL it uµ against so1111• rnal competition -say, the original "I launting" or cvc1i Lhis year's somewhat ovcr-rnled "Tim Blair Witch Project" -and it doesn't nvnn conrn clos1~. That isn't to say there arnn'L a l'nw spooky 1110mH11ls and clnv11r touchns inhabiting "llouse on Haunted Hill" 
Tlw lirst throe-quarters or the film should marginally 1ml1H"tai11 !11111-m wilh a special fondnoss for ghosts, gorn and tlw supPrnaturn I. l !nfortunatnly, the lilm eventually falls victim to thn same kind"House on of CCI overload that has hob­Haunted Hill" bled so many recent genre 

olforings. 
Geoffrey Hush 
("Shakespeare 
out of five shamrocks In-Love," "Shine") stars as Steven Price, an entertain­
Director: William Malone 
ment industryStarring: Famke Janssen, Lisa Loeb, tycoon with a reputation for
Geoffrey Rush and Peter Gallagher 
ghoulish 
pranks. When his dnvilish wifo (Famke Janssen. "Goldeneye," "Hounders") asks for a birthday party in an abandoned insane asylum, Steven, who distrusts his wife almost as much as she detests him, sets up a number of surprises uinely creepy images, and the haunted building itself is stops caring. in the cavernous building and substitutes his wife's com­far spookier than the silly Munsters mansion seen in Rush seems to enjoy himself as the twisted Price, but puter gunst list with a different set of names. "The Haunting." But, although there are a few instances his performance is undermined by dialogue that's never Unbeknownst to him, the list is altered yet again, result­of "dead" people coming back to life. after lhe first one, sharp enough to make the character truly memorable. ing in the arrival of a group unknown to either of the it's not that diflicult to predict the others. To make mat­The same can be said of just about everyone else in the Prices. ters worse, without any sort of subsequent story devel­film. Potential victims Taye Diggs ("Go"), Ali Larter 

Surprised but undeterred, Steven lays out the ground opment (why do the characters keep going into the same ("Varsity Blues") and Bridgette Wilson ("Billy Madison") rules: Each guest will be awarded $1 million if they stay three rooms over and over?), especially concerning the hardly make an impression. Peter Gallagher ("While in the hous(1 overnight. In the event of dealh, the money money motivating the characters' actions, the film even­You Were Sleeping") makes the most of his meager sup­will be split between the survivors. tually loses its thrill. porting role, and Saturday Night Live vet Chris Kattan 
Who invited these strangers to this haunted house, "House on Haunted Hill" has the potency to be some­provides only a few laughs as a quirky, squirmy coward. Limn? Well, it turns out there's a force in the house thing truly nerve-wracking, hut it settles comfortably on Overall, the entire cast isn't allowed to do much with the linked to the old, unspeakable cruelties once inflicted disturbing atmosphere. There is the slight presence of characters beyond what characters traditionally do in them on tho psychologically damaged. The energy in style and, although this is not especially mind-blowing, it horror films -wander around aimlessly, waiting to be this house goes through the phone, and the phone is is enough to keep things moving at a somewhat steady served up for a slaughter. hooked to the Internet, and ... oh. forget it. All this pace. To be fair, "Haunted Hill" is occasionally clever with­rnviewer can say is that his computer decides to invite What little bit of imaginative film making there is, how­out being pretentious. It also manages to avoid the strangnrs over, and their last names are Lopez and ever, completely evaporates into a hokey ending that annoying pop culture references that inhabit almost llayek. partially ruins everything that preceded it. Rather than every horror film nowadays. Although 'The House on 
What's important abnut a film like "House on Haunted bringing the terror to a crescendo, the limp climax Haunted Hill" won't go down in the annals of the horror JIill," of' cours11, are the scams. DirPctor William Malone deflates all the tension from the film. Special effects go genre as being one of the best, it's certainly far from the ("Talcs from tlrn Crypt" TV series) o!Ters up a few gen-on the rampage, things start exploding and the audience worst. 

Box OFFICE 

The Halloween week­
end saw the new film "House of Haunted Hill" debut at the No. 1 spot at the box office with $15.9 mil­lion. Other new film, "Music of the Heart," debuted at No. 5. Also helped by the spirit of Halloween, "The Sixth Sense" 
~mped ~WO srots ~o 
o. 8, with $ .2 mil­lion. 
Photo courtesy of Wamar Brothers 

Movie Title 
1 ' House on Haunted Hill 
2. 
The Best Man 

3. 
Double Jeopardy 

4. 
American Beauty 

5. 
Music of the Heart 

6. 
Bringing Out the Dead 

7. 
Fight Club 

8. 
The Sixth Sense 

9. 
The Story of Us 10, Three Kings 


-
e:Jl,!cD. 29-JI 
Weekend Sales  Total Sales  
$ 15.9 million  $ 15. 9 million  
$ 6. 3 million  $ 17. 9 million  
$ 5.4 million  $ 98. 3 million  
$ 3.8 million  $ 54.1 million  
$ 3. 7 million  $ 3. 7 million  
$ 3.4 million  $ 11.4 million  
$ 3.3 million  $ 27. 7 million  
$ 3.2 million  $ 259.8 million  
$ 3.0 million  $ 22. 3 million  
$ 2.5 million  $ 53.7 million  
Source: Yahoo  

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, November 4, 1999 
VOLLEYBALL 
-
Irish control Redbirds in non-conference victory 
By MATT OLIVA 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame volleyball team was in control nearly the entire match last night as it defeated Illinois State in four games. · The Irish knocked off the Redbirds (13-10) with scores of 15-8, 15-8, 8-15 and 15-3. 
With tho victory, the Irish improved their overall record to 16-6. 
The Redbirds scored the first two points of the match, but then surrendered ten unan­swered points to the Irish. Notre Dame never let ISU back into the game, with ISU coming only as close as a 12-6 deficit. 
In game two, the Irish contin­ued their streak and never fell behind. After being tied at eight each, the Irish scored seven points for the win, as the Redbirds were unable to answor back. 
Game three was a different story. Illinois State came out aggressively after the break, taking the early lead 7-1. The Irish were unable to regroup and get back in the game. The Redbirds were able to put the Irish away 15-8 to force a fourth game. 
"They switched their lineup to get a better matchup against us," said Irish head coach Debbie Brown. "They were ...... able to neutralize Kristi Kreher and we struggled with Mary 
and Denise connecting. We had a bit of a letdown, but they def­initely played a bil. better." 
After dropping game three, the Irish came out and opened up a qui(;k lead on the visitors. The Irish had a 10-2 lead a one point, and then easily ended the match with a 15-3 victory. 
"W<Y made som0 adjustments in the last game, mainly substi­tuting Malinda Goralski for Jo Jameyson," said Brown. "Our hitting and blocking was a lot better the last game and Janie Alderete made some nice defensive plays." 
The Irish finished the match with 7 5 kills as a learn. 
Christi Girton posted a game­high 19 kills, Mary Leffers added 17 kills, while Kristi Kreher and Marcie Bomhack each contributed 'I 5 kills each. Kreher and Girton also finished with match hitting averages above .400. 
Defensively the Irish out­blocked their opponent 12 to seven. Girton and Kreher led the Irish with 27 digs between the two of them. 
Megan O'Connell Jed the Redbirds on offense with 15 kills and a .351 hitting average 
This Saturday Notre Dame will host Big East opponent Syracuse in their last home match of the year. The Irish are looking to remain unde­feated and in first place in the Big East. Game time is sched­uled for 1 p.m. in the Joyce Center. 

Sophomore middle blocker Malinda Goralski spikes the ball for the Irish volleyball team, which defeated Illinois State in four games yesterday. 
The Observer accepcs classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 1.m. ar the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
total confidence.Please call back Please email resumes to: N.D. FOOTBALL TIX Jason D. ........._........."--·· anytime.Our prayers are with you. reps@gmbid.com CALL 271-9412 Fluffy the squirrel gives a big SHOUT OUT to everybody on NOTICES Free One Bedroom Apartment near Phone Cards 669min. $20 I NEED BC TIX! Team 395, especially Jo-jo! Campus 243-9361 or 258-4805 GA OR REGULAR! 
------·---­
WANT TO LEARN ABOUT 634-2595
FOR RENT 
THE LAW? ND Law School A family with three children seeks Beautiful brass bed, queen size, My mother was a Thomist. needs volunteers lo be jurors tun.energetic student or graduate to ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE with orthopedic mattress set and in mock trials on Dec. 4 & 5. live in charming apartment for HOME FOR deluxe frame. New, never used, still Come on, stone .... let's think about Staff. faculty and students are FREE in exchange for mutually ND-SMC EVENTS. in plastic. $235 ii, stone ...
PERSONAL 
welcome. Please call Gloria agreeable babysitting responsibili-VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 219-862-2082 
Krull at 631-6860 to sign up. ties.Fax name.phone# and brief 243-0658. I fall asleep thinking about Tony's note describing experience and Ford Ranger PU '88, Gay, lesbian and Bisexual question every night. interests to Walker at 233-2308. THAT PRETTY PLACE, stick-super cab clean-59k miles students of ND/SMC meeting each 
Bed and Breakfast Inn has space $4,250 Thurs. For info call: GOOOOOO Team 395!!!! available for football/parent wknds. 271-9474 (877)631-6OUT
LOST & FOUND 
WANTED: DRUMMER 5 Rooms with private baths, $80-Really, I like the idea of a team 
._ 
& BASSIST $115, Middlebury, 30 miles from final. campus. Toll Road Exit #107, 1-Quality Copies, Quickly! Lost: earring, silver and amathyst, NOTRE DAME SHENANIGANS 800-418-9487. We're open early, late, & See, I bet the guy these are aimed
TICKETS
sentimental value. Oct. 13 between SHOW CHOIR is looking for a weekends. at never reads them. That's too DeBartofo, stadium parking lot. and drummer & bassist to perform for X-3 BDRM DUPLEX THE COPY SHOP bad. Decio, 233-8672 mas concert.No experience nee-REMODELED 501 EDDY ST. WANTED NOTRE DAME FOOT-Lafortune Student Center 
cessary. Must attend 3 dates, 1 Ml. FROM CAMPUS. BALL TICKETS Phone 631-COPY "Heck'' including evenings of Dec 6 APPLIANCES, W/D. 271-1526 Quality Copies, Quickly! and7. Equipment can be 273-8332 243 Lyons will be the place to BE provided.Wages negotiable.Call SELL &BUY GA FOOTBALL TICK-Friday night! 
WANTED office @ 1-5896 or Bryan @4-3044. HOUSES HOUSES HOUSES ETS Spring Break 2000 Free Trips & -DOMUS PROPERTIES HAVE 277-6619 Meals. Lyons Hall Basement ROCKS! FREE TRIPS AND CASH!!! AVAILABLE 5,6,7.8 & 10-BDRM SPRING BREAK 2000 HOUSES FOR THE FOR SALE Jamaica,Cancun,Bahamas,Barbad We are going to WIN the Spirit Studen!City.com is looking for NOTRE DAME SHENANIGANS '00-01 SCHOOL YEAR. ONLY 15 BC &EL TON JOHN tix. os,Florida,Padre.Book now tor Free Contest! Highly Motivated Students to pro-SHOW CHOIR is also DESPER· LEFT. CALL274-1501 OR 234· Best Prices Meals & 2 Free Trips.Book before mote Spring Break 2000! ATEL Y seeking a male performer to 2436. ASK FOR KRAMER FOR AM · 232-2378 Dec. 17 for LOWER PRICES!! What is that? I don't think so. Organize a small group and travel complete its ensemble for X-mas SHOWING. PM -288-2726 1800-426-7710 
FREE!!Top campus concert.No experience necessary.6 reps can earn a Free Trip & over week comm1tment,wl 2nd semester $10,000!Choose Cancun, membership opinial. Rehearsals Jamaica or Nassau! occur Weds 9:30-11 PM & Suns 3­Book Trips On-Line 6PM.Must also commit to evenings Log In and win FREE stuff. of Dec 6 & 7.A great way to meet Sign Up Now On Line! girls.Call office @1-5896 or Bryan 
www.StudentCity.com or @4-3044. 
800/293-1443 
...ACT NOW!CALL FOR THE ND Students: Need a new car? BEST SPRING BREAK Convince us (in 500 words or less) PRICES!SOUTH PADRE.CAN-that you're the one who deserves it, CUN,JAMAICA,BAHAMAS,ACA· And we'll send you a brand new PULCO,FLORIDA & MARDI Volkswagon Beetle! GRAS.REPS NEEDED .. TRAVEL Check us out at WinningLetter.com FREE,EARN $$$.DISCOUNTS 
FOR 6+. 800-838-8203 gmbid.corn is a pre IPO start-up WWW.LEISURETOURS.COM luxury auction web site, pioneered 
by Georges Marciano, the founder loving ND-SMC couple wishes to of Guess? Jeans. We are looking adopt.Will provide a hfe!ime of for a part time campus representa• laughter, love. devotion and opportu-live to join us in arranging local pro-WALK TO SCHOOL http://mmrnrentals.homepage.com 232-2595 or mmm.rentals@aol.com 
4-6 student rental houses. Lots at extras. Huge Party Room. Washer/Dryer, etc. Dave 291-2209. 
FOR SALE 
Spring Break Specials! Bahamas Party Cruise 5 Days $279! Includes Meals' Awesome Beaches, Nightlife ICancun & Jamaica 7 Nights From $399! Florida $129! springbreaktravel.com 1-800-6 78-6386 
FOR SALE 
www.sunsplashtours.com That's because you're a second 
floor apostate. 
ND Football !ix Anyone know where to find so good 
BOUGHT & SOLD Pon campus? Anyway, BASEMENT RULES! 
AM -232-2378 PM -288-2726 I am your spaghetti clad warrior. Sean, here's a classified just for you. You haven't gotten one in a You so durdie. while. 
FOR SALE  Could you describe today's run with  Everyone who congratulated me  
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS  two words?  this week, you have been great.  
CALL 271-9412  
I pound at 12:15  Buongiorno, Principessa!  

WANTED: 4 Tenn. Tix  I'm not permitted to speak about  So, OK, last night it involved a roller  
Pre.  coaster, portals to a parallel uni•  
312-951-5008  verse. communists. and my back- 
Or the triple Liny  yard from when I was seven.  
El.fON  JOHN TICKETS  
272-7233 GOOD SEATS ...  MV needs a woman.  
Funky GOURDS  
NEED BCTIX.  Three tor a dollar!!  Hi Emily! Don't you love it when  
CALL MARY AT  Fun imaginative shapes ...  your name is in the classifieds?  
219-257-1141.  Does your dad read these?  

nities. motions, PR, giveaways, e-mail N.D. FOOTBALL TIX 800-484-4699 code 0019 campaigns, sponsorships, etc. Must CALL 271-9412 FOR SALE: Diana, you rock! Congratulations on Yes. the weirdness is just becoming be interested in marketin{,. a self-2 BC tix. winning your show at Purdue! OVERWHELMING. Get off the desk. To our 4am inquirer: all info kept m starter, tun. and a team ~.ayer. FOR SALE 1-800-547-9094 

Thursday, November 4, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
NBA 
Auerbach celebrates 50 years with Celtics 


.. 


$1COVER 
(with college /.D., must be 21) 
and lots of other stuff for a buck, too. More pictures online every week at www.ACEplaces.com/heartland 222 S. Michigan• South Bend• (219) 234-5200 Call the Heartland Concert & Event Line (219) 251-2568 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 
Hed Auerbach is partially responsible for each of the 16 NBA championship banners hanging above the Boston Celtics' famous parquet 11oor. 
And now there's one because of him alone. 
The Celtics raised a golden silhouette of their cigar-smok­ing patriarch to the rafters on 
Wednesday night to cele­brate his 50th yflar with the franchise he made the pride of theleague. 
Bill Russell, his greatest player, ushered the former coach and general managr.r across the floor. Tommy Heinsohn, who like Russell both played f'or and coached Celtics champions, introduced the 82-year-old man who came to Boston as a "spirited young coach" and stayed for half a century. 
And is still as feisty as ever. 
"What's all the fuss about? Like they're putting me out to pasture," Auerbach said at halftime of Boston's 112-101 victory over the Washington Wizards. "This is no swan song. I'm not going any­where." 
A scoreboard video showed highlights of the Auerbach years -an era that covers almost the entire history of the team. There was Red lighting one of his frequent victory cig­ars, Red being carried off the court, Hed being drenched with champagne, Hed holding the championship trophy, and Red meeting Prnsid1rnt Kennedy. 
Then there was the banner­raising -a quite familiar scene at past home openers. 
"I never felt this way when I was on the bench," Auerbach said. "I feel honored." 
But he also credited his suc­cess to the players he acquired: Russell, Ileinsohn and Bob Cousy; Dave Cowens, Johu Havlicek and Jo Jo White, and later Larry Bird, Robert Parish and Kevin McHale brought titles to Boston in three separate eras. 
"All these guys came in, and they personified Celtics pride," Auerbach said. 
But he was the only con­stant. 
"It's hard tn believe that Hect has been around the Celtics for 50 years," Mavericks coach and former Celtic Don Nelson said in Dallas. "He deserves every honor and award he has received during his career. It's been one of the highlights of my career to have been associ­ated with him." 
Nelson is one of six former Celtics coaching in the NBA this season. And that's not counting Mcllale, who is the general manager of the Minnesota Timberwolves. 


page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, November 4, 1999 
Story 
continued from page 24 
more. He transferred to Div. 1­AA Troy State where he was also kicked out of school for suspectr~d dorm arson. 
The class lost another key player in its sophomore sca­!:,On. Quarterback Zak Kustok found himself fourth on the depth chart behind Jarious Jackson. Arnaz Battle and Eric Chappell in an offense that did not suit his drop-back talents. At the close of summer camp, he transferred to Northwestern and is now the Wildcats' starter. 
The biggest blows to the class. however. have come this year. Linebacker Hugh Holmes, rated the 26th-best linebackP.r in the country as a high school senior, was forced to quit the football team for medical rea­sons. 
At the conclusion of summer practice, tailback Darcy Levy found himself listed as the fifth-string tailback behind Tony Fisher. Tony Driver, Terrance Howard and Julius Jones on the depth chart. Deciding to try his chances elsewhere. he asked Notre Dame to release him from his scholarship and he trans­ferred. 
While Rego, Kustok. Dansby, Holmes and Levy are gone from the Irish roster forever. two other players, Driver and cornerback Brock Williams. are merely suspended from the team and will return for spring practice. 
Driver and Williams were 
both suspended by Student 
Affairs for violating team rules. 
The recent loss of players like Driver. Levy, Holmes and Williams has been especially difficult for this class, accord­ing to defensive end Grant Irons. 
"It was just like losing a member of our familv," Irons said. "We've been through so many things. So many ups and downs." 
The tough times and hard work the class has gone through has helped the players remain close. 
"We know that the players who are still here have made the same sacrifices and put in the same time, so for us, we have to make sure we are there for each other," Irons said. 
With so many players gone, it can be hard to remember that a lot of talent still remains in the Class of 2001. Currently there are five juniors -Irons, .Jabari Hollowav. John Teasdale, Anthony Denman and Joey Getherall -in the starting lineup, and many oth­ers make significant contribu­tions to the team. 
"I have noticed those guys have stepped it up," Davie said. "I think Grant Irons has played well in the last couple of weeks. I think he is starting to really emerge now. I think Jabari llolloway has played Wflll." 
Perhaps the most successful member of the Class of 2001 this year has been Denman. The inside linebacker is third on the team in tackles with 50 and third in tackles for a loss with five. 
Despite all the transfers, expulsions, suspensions and injuries, one thing has remained a constant for the Class of 2001: they are a fami­ly. 
"We came in together and it's a family," Irons said. "We just try to stay together and stick together." 

ATTENTION STUDENTS: 
WHY SELL YOUR USED TEXTBOOKS BACK TO THE BOOKSTORE FOR LESS WHEN YOU CAN SELL THEM DIRECTLY TO ANOTHER STUDENT? CAMPUSMONSTER.COM ALLOWS STUDENTS TO SELL THEIR USED 
TEXTBOOKS TO OTHER STUDENTS. YOU WILL MAKE MORE MONEY AND YOUR FELLOW STUDENTS WILL SAVE MORE! IT'S THAT SIMPLE. LOG ON NOW AND LIST YOUR FALL SEMESTER TEXTBOOKS AND GET ENTERED FOR THE CHANCE TO WIN YOUR NEXT SEMESTERS BOOKS FOR FREE!!!! THATS RIGHT WE WILL HOLD A DRAWING ON DECEM­BER 30, 1999 TO FIND THE WINNER OF OUR" SEMESTER FOR FREE" CONTEST YOU WILL RECEIVE 1 ENTRY FOR EVERY BOOK YOU LIST. THE MORE BOOKS YOU LIST THE BETTER YOUR CHANCES OF WIN­NING. 
WHEN YOU'RE THERE, GET THE LATEST SCOOP ON WHAT'S HAPPEN­ING AT YOUR COLLEGE OR AT CAMPUSES AROUND THE COUNTRY. THERE'S ALSO A SECTION WITH UP TO DATE SCORES AND COLLEGE NEWS. 
FROM TEXTBOOK SWAPPING, COLLEGE APPAREL AND GAME TICKETS TO THE LATEST CAMPUS NEWS, IT'S ALL JUST A CLICK AWAY AT CAM­PUSMONSTER.COM 
PUSfflDDSTBR.CDffl 
"If we don't have it, you can't get it!" 



Thursday, November 4, 1999 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
... 
. com .com .com .com .com .com .com .com .com .com .con1 .con1 .corn 
corn .con1 .corn .com .com .com 
.con1 .com .com .. com .com .com .com .com .com .com .corn corn .com .con1 .com .com . com .corn .com .com .COrll .com .com .com 
Why work for one .com, when you can work for hundreds? 

.com .com 
,corn .com .com .corn 
,CO .corn .com .. corn .com .corn 
.corn .corn .corn .com .corn .corn com .corn .com .com .cc,rr1 .con, .com .con1 .corn .com .com .com .com .con1 .com .COtTI .corn 
corn .corn · .corn .-com .corn .com .com .con1 .com .com .com .com .com .com .com .corn .con1 .com com .COITI .com .com 



..... 
.com .com .com .com .com .com .com .com .com 
• 
FORTUNE You haven't gotten this far by limiting
.com. .com .com .con1 .corn corn 
10Q~f:~~i ,. your possibilities. And if you want to 
~MIR
TO WORK FOB go even farther, consider the possibilities 

at Ernst & Young. You'll have access to some of the most 
.com .corn .corn 
sophisticated tools in the technology industry and work with some of the companies that help define it. Log on. www.ey.com 
.com .com .corn 
.con1 
.com .com 
.... 
.. 

I• 
' 
...·----~---·-'"----· ----~----'-----­
Thursday, November 4, 1999
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS 
HOCKEY 
Zakowski honored byCCHA 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame hockey team produced its second CCHA rookie-of-the-week win­ner in the past three weeks, as freshman goaltender Tony Zasowski was recognized on Nov. 1 for his strong series last week versus Miami University. 
Zasowski made 58 saves in the Miami series while allowing just four goals. He helped stop all 14 Miami power plays in the series and turned away the first 19 shots he faced on Thursday, with 34 shutout minutes. 
Zasowski, who will return this week, became the first freshman to start in the net for the Irish since Matt Eisler made his first career start in the second game of 1994-95. 
Zasowski faced a steady stream of shots in his first start while turning away eight power-play shots in that 5-2 win on Oct 28. In the 2-2 tie on Oct. 29, Zasowski made eight saves in the third period and five in overtime. 
Notre Dame returns to action 
this week at Nebraska-Omaha, 
giving Zasowski a chance to 
return to the city where he 
spent the past two seasons as a 
member of the Omaha Lancers 
junior hockey team. 
Belles 
continued from page 24 
Mary's community to contin­ue to support athletics,. The cl uh will publish three newsletters per year and eventually add biweekly updates. 
"The Saint Mary's Belles Varsity Club is a way to spread the message that Saint Mary's is moving for­ward in an athletic and well­ness standpoint," Kachmarik said. "Through it, we can bring the whole Saint Mary's family into our vision for improved athletics." 
Kachmarik believes that joining the MIAA and improving the athletic department will be improve­ments for the school as a whole, increasing alumnae relations, building spirit and strengthening academics. 
"Academics and athletics 
go hand in hand," Kachmarik 
said. "As you become better 
in the MIAA, you will become 
stronger academically across 
the board. Alumnae will here 
about the improvements and 
they'll want to give more. It 
will be another place for peo­
ple to channel their generosi­
ty." 
Kachmarik believes the 
athletic improvements are 
part of the total vision of a 
better Saint Mary's. 
"We are taking the state­
ment 'Premiere Catholic 
Woman's College' to a new 
level," she said. "We are 
going to get athletics in the 
message. We're going to take 
that message and know that 
it encompasses every single 
aspect of the Saint Mary's 
community." 
Check out The Observer on-line at www.nd.edu. 

.! II O ti 
Pulliam Journalism Fellowships 
Graduating college seniors are invited to apply for the 27th annual Pulliam 
Journalism Fellowships. We will grant 10-week summer internships to 20 
journalism or liberal arts majors in the August 1999-June 2000 graduating 
classes. 
Previous internship or part-time experience at a newspaper is desired. or other demonstration of writing and reJX)rting ability. Those who go through the Fellowships often find new professional opportunities opening up at other newspapers during and after the program. Wmners will receive a $5,500 stipend and will work at either The Indianapolis Star or The Arizona Republic. OpJX)rtunities for online training are available, along with reporting experience at our major metropolitan daily newspapers. 
Early-admissions application postmark deadline is Nov. 15, 1999. By Dec. 15, 1999, up to five early-admissions winners will be notified. Al! other entries must be postmarked by March 1, 2000, and will be consid­ered with remaining early-admissions applicants. Successful applicants will be notified on or before April 1, 2000, and will be asked to respond immediately with a letter of intent, at which time one-third of the cash grant will be mailed to the Fellow. 
To request an application packet, visit our Web site, e-mail us or write: 

Russell B. Pulliam 
Pulliam Fellowships Director 
Indianapolis Newspapers 
\Ven ,i1e: \\ \\ w.,l,t!Tlc \\ ,.~'(1!11/pif P.O. Box 145 E-maii: ~ulli,nn(ct, ,trp,:,\,.co·ni' 
IndianaJX>lis, IN 46206-0145 
C O L L F ENGINEERING 

""+-AR STUDENTS 
From information to biotechnolog Come explore the opportunities in the College of Engineering. aerospace transportation ... po/lu advanced energy systems, engineer, humanity, but they affect the econom to current students and faculty. products, relining current manulacturin ut what being an 8flgjfl8 8 f is all about. developing new technologies, making a -it's all in a day's work tor an 8flgjfl 
e 
Y' DpII 
Shape Be an 
... 

13 E ft ... 9 9 
Meet the Dean Auditorium Tour the departments patrick Hall 
Thursday, November 4, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
A tribute to Payton and fathers that care about kids 
The untimely death of people he touched with his This act and these feelings through their children's suc­Walter Payton has caused smile and pl.easant demeanor. w1wen't solely a public display cesses. Many of the most many of' us to rel'lcc:t on the "Sweetness," both on and off either. I was fortunate enough famous fathers in sports in the images that he implanted in the field, was truly the only to have the opportunity to last 10 years have lived up to our mnmories as childrnn. nickname suitable. spend an evening with Walter this image·. 
Images The image, however, thal outside of the public eye. Earl Woods, who believes of Pavlon many people associate with Immediately after the speech his son is the messiah;
Brian Churney
I ea p·in g Payton came well after his his­he gave in Canton, Walter Richard Williams, who regu­over piles, toric career ended. used his cell phone to call his larly upstages the successes of running It wasn't even an image of son. I-le later explained to me his daughters with his antics;
On The Hot
nearly 40 Walter Payton. It was the that the toughest thing about Joel De La Hoya, who refuses
Corner
yards back image of his then-12-year-old being on the road was being to acknowledge his son's tal­and forth son Jarrntt standing at thP away from his child. ent despite Oscar's desire for across the podium on the steps of the Unfortunately in today's him to do so; and Marv linld just to gain a fow up the 1lall of' Fame in Canton, Ohio. sports world, this attitude is Marinovich, who tried to cre­fipld. lrnag1is of Payton knock­and calling his father "my too uncommon. We arc oftpn ate a quarterback from the ing over tacklers like they biggest role model and my fed with the negative images womb by forbidding his son lo were made of straw arc as best friend." It reduced Payton of overbearing fathers intent eat sweets or live a normal plnnti!'ul as the millions o!' to toars. upon living vicariously childhood, are just a few of 

You buy a $20 card. You get $20 worth of wireless calls. 
( It's not like you need to take Critical Perspectives in Economic Theory to figure that one out.) 
S1Q FREE AIRTIME 
WITH NEW ACTIVATION* 
Our Prepaid Wireless service is a great way to get wireless when you need it at a price you can afford. Simply purchase our Prepaid Wireless Cards. You can use your own phone, or buy 
J!llltE[
our prepaid package and get a phone. When you need more time, just purchase additional minutes. It's truly wireless when The power to simplify 
you want it. 
1-800-219-9636 • www.alltel.com Mishawaka: 505 W. Douglas Road • Elkhart: 3365 S. Main Street 
110 free otte, good With new account activation. Offer good until December 31, 1999. Cunorner may provide equipment or purchase equiprrient from ALLTEL Non-u5.age fee of up to S4 a week may apply. Roaming and long•di1tance ie,e5 ma_y ,;:i_pp[y, T!l,c;ci will ilpply on <1 per-call ba5.is and wi!I be deducted from S10 tree airtime credit. See store for detail~. 
the names that immediately come to mind. 
The media tell us about ath­lete-fathers that don't spend enough time with their chil­dren, or even worse, don't bother to be a part of their children's lives. What a refreshing sight it is, then, to see an athlete, like Payton, who genuinely is a "good father." 
There is little less valuable in sports than the relationship between a father and his child. This is in no way devaluing the role of a mother in an athlete's life, (after all you don't hear "Hi Dad" too often from the sidelines after a touchdown). but there's some­thing special about the inter­action with one's father. 
Whether it be Mark McGwire embracing his son as he crossed the plate after his record home run: Michael Jordan clutching the ball, in tears. after winning his first NBA title after his father's death; or Paul O'Neill wiping away tears after winning another World Series, the spe­cial relationship between a good father and his child tugs at our heart strings. 
Sports and fathers just seem to go together, like apple pie and ice cream. And, in fact, few of us can imagine doing one without the other. 
I was lucky enough to have a father who loved sports, not primarily because of the sport, but primarily because it was I who was participating in the sport. · 
-
Most of my fondest memo­ries of my childhood involve my father and I playing catch on the lawn, waking up early in the morning to go fishing or spending hours and hours dis­cussing the football game that just had taken place. 
These times were much more symbolically significant than the activities themselves imply. I saw him taking all of his vacation to travel to away football games and wrestling meets. I saw him spending hours on the weekend fixing up our high school and Little League baseball fields. I saw that he cared! 
And as the time passes and the physical distance between us grows, I still know he cares. My father and I can still return to those glory days and identify with each other through sporting events. Although the venue has changed (we now talk more about fantasy sports and Notre Dame football than my own athletic career), the bond has remained strong. As long as sports exist. in fact, that .. bond will exist. 
Jarrett Payton was lucky. He was able to tell the world how he felt about his father before he lost his father. Let us all be lucky enough to have fathers like Walter Payton and like my own. Let us all be lucky enough to tell the world how we feel about them. 
Happy birthday, Dad! I love you. 
BOOK SEARCH 
* 
Used, rare, and out-of-print books 

* 
Initial cost of $2.00 

* 
Nationally -circulated ad 

* 
Success rate of 50% * Time re4uired; 2 months 


ERASMUS BOOKS 
Open noon to six 
Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Rend, IN 46617 
(219) 232-8444 

----------------------------, 
page 20 
The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, November 4, 1999 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Tennessee's top receiver may miss Notre Dame game 
Assodaced P re.s 
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. 
There's an internal clock in 
every good receiver's head that 
tells him when his quarterback 
is out of time. Cedrick Wilson of 
No. 4 Tennessee has one, but he 
may not play Saturday night 
against Notre Dame. 
Vols quarterback Tee Martin hopes somebody else develops one. Now. 
Martin said he had to pull the ball down and run several times last week against South Carolina because his rf'ceivers were too slow running their routes. 
"I told Donte' [Stallworth!, 'You can do that in practice, but in a game I don't have on a green [no-contact! jersey,"' Martin said. 
Wilson, Tennessee's leading receiver with 42 catches, pl.ayed only one series before straining a hamstring against South Carolina last week. He is listed as questionable for Saturday's game against No. 24 Notre Dame. 
Until he was hurt, Wilson was on a pace to set a Tennessee receiving record. That's a testa­ment to Wilson's ability, but it also suggests Martin is not as comfortable with the other wide receivers and goes to Wilson on key plays. Eric Parker is the No. 
2 receiver with 15 catches. 
Wilson's absence was glaring against South Carolina. Tennessee (6-1) had a dis,iointed passing game the rest of the day. 
Martin says it should be better with a week of practice by play­ers who know their time has come. 
"If Cedrick can come back it'll be a plus for us. If not, it won't. be tragic,"Martin said. "We got better as the South Carolina game went along." 
Parker also was limited last wflek because of a Ou bug, and did not catch a pass. 
In their stead, Stallworth caught four passes for 130 yards, most of iL on two long runs after catching short screen passes. Leonard Scott caught three passes. 
"Donte' would have had about 400 yards and five touchdowns la5t week if he had done certain things,"Martin said, shaking his head. "Little things, like not trip­ping or looking at me sooner." 
Stallworth said he "didn't understand the importance of how much time Tee has back there. 
I was thinking he had a little more time than he actually did." 
Stallworth and Martin spent most of Saturday night together going over things after the South Carolina game . 
"We're in a teaching and Saturday against the Irish (5-3). have to have stellar games." learning mode, "Martin said. "Definitely without Cedrick the Wilson said he probably won't"We're getting better." offense is at a loss,"Parker said. know until game time if he can 
Parker is expected to be back "We have to emerge. We all play. 

HOMES FOR RENT 
-Domus Properties' has two, five, six, and nine bedroom student housing available 
-Student neighborhoods close to 
1 
campus -Security systems provided -Well maintained homes -Maintenance staff on call 
Available for the 2000nOOI school year BETTER HURRY!!! ONLY S HOUSES LEFT 
Contact Kramer (219)274-1501 or (219)234-2436 or (219)674-2572 
lNJ:ORffil\.TION meeTINc; 
Wrrh Ci\RIDeN Nf\NNJ ~SSISTi\NT OJRecTOR 
-
Appetizers will be served 

.. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME lNTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS 109 HURLEY DUlLDING Notre Dame, lndlan:i 46556 T: 631-5882 Fu: 631-5711 
Returning students will be on hand to answer questions 
Thursday, November 4, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS 
ROWING 
Rowers conquer competition 
Spe,ial tu The Ob.crver 
ELKII/\HT. Ind. 
The Irish women's rowing tiwm c11mpeted in thnir final rngalta of tlrn season Sunday, placing third in lhe 12-LPam evnnt llnad of the Elk tlegatla in Elkhart, Inc.I. 
The Irish collectHd two golds, two silvPrs and had a solid pnr­formancc from its op!:n eight boat. The Irish cornpetfid in 10 diffurent racns. nach covPring approximat.ily 2.75 miles. 
Notre Dame's novice open night and lightweight four boats took gold modal Saturday. The novic,i OJHlll eight boat won in a tinw of 16 minulfls, 8.59 sec11nds, mnrn than two seconds ahead of Michigan State, which was sec­ond with a time of 16:10.97. The Irish lightweight four boat 
Recycle The Observer 
won its race by nine seconds, finishing with a time of 
16:48.86. Miami (Ohio) was second at 16:57.10. 
The women's open four placed second in both the ''A" and tlrn "B" races with the Irish finishing in a time of 
16:24.56 in the "A" race and 16:2J.50 in the "8" race. Michigan State won the "A" race in a time of 15:48.50 and the "B" race in a lime of Ui: 18.15. 
In the wompn's open eight event, the Irish placed sixth with a season-best time of 
14:40.10. Michigan, who quali­fied for the NCAA Championships as a team last season, finished first in the racn wilh a winning time of 
14:05.99. Michigan ·s number­two boat was second, followed by Michigan State's "A" an<l "B" boats. The Spartans also qualified for the NCAA Championships in 1999. Purdue was fifth in a time of 14:38.73. 
Notre Dame took fourth in the women's novice open eight "A" and "D" races and third and fourth in I.he novice open eight "C" race. It was an encouraging sign for head coach Martin Stone as many of the athletes were competing in their first-ever regatta. 
In the women's open dou­blr,s, Notre Dame claimed fourth through sixth in ttrn event. with the fourth place boat finishing in 19:07.58. It was a significant accomplish­ment for the Irish as Notre Dame, a second-year rowing program, received its double boats only two weeks ago. 
"We did a good job overall," head coach Martin Stone said. "We picked up spfrnd all the way across the board from the last race. We had a number of good things happen and can take that into our winter train­ing session iu preparation for the spring." 
The Irish will now partic­ipate in speed-order racing over the next two woeks to determine who will be rowing in what boat for the spring season. 

GOT A WORD FOR OUR TASTY NEW CHICKEN CLUB SANDWICH: 
CRAVEABLE. 
4 
t
{.Ir's NOT A RiAL WORD, BUT 
1: 
·\;
; 
)
WE LIKE IT I 

THE TASTY CHICKEN CLUB IS HERE TO STAY. 
One bite of the del1c1ous Chicken Chm, and you'll always crave the flavor ol I1s all-white-meat chicken topped with crispy bacon, fresh lettuce and tomato and mayonnaise. And lhal"s no problem. because now this ullra-sat1sly1ng sandwich is here to stay at BURGER KING" So came on ,n and indulge your craving. 
The Huddle · LafortuneStudent Center PARTICIPATION MAY VARY 

IT JUST TASTES BfTTER~ 
wW1N.bu1gerk1ng com 
j 
page 21 . 
SOCCER 

By KERRY SMITH Sports Writer 
In a showdown that would determine the future of the season, Irish forward Andrew Aris came up big for the Notre Dame men's soccer team when his late game goal against the Seton Hall Pirates secured Notre Dame its fourth­straight berth in the Big East tournament. 
The Irish battled conference rival Seton Hall to a 1-1 tie on Wednesday. narrowly captur­ing the eighth spot in the Big East conference and rounding out the list of teams that advance beyond the regular season. 
In their most critical game of the year. the Irish needed a win or a tie to stay alive and secure a place in post-season play. 
With the tie, the Irish tied the Providence Friars for the eighth spot in the Big East con­ference. but by virtue of Notre Dame's 4-0 win over Providence in head to head competition during the regular season. the Irish earned the right to continue on into the post season. 
The Irish fought the Pirates to a 0-0 stalemate in the first half of play. Seton Hall's Peter Scavo put the Pirates on top midway through the second half. when he booted an 18­yard free kick past Irish goal­keeper Gerick Short al the 
59:26 murk for the 1-0 lead. Scavo reigns as the confer­ence's leading scorer with 15 goals in the regular season. 
Aris matched Scavo's goal 18 minutes latnr when he took advantage of a loose rebound and put the ball in the net for the 1-1 tic with 13 minutes remaining in regulation. 
Irish forward Eric Braun set up the play when his shot on goal was deflected by Pirate goalkeepnr Efren Aguirre and picked up by Aris. 
Aris' score marks the senior's second goal of the sea­... son. 
The Pirates outshot the Irish 22-13 and had an 11-6 corner­kick advantage, but Short. anchoring the Irish defense with five saves in goal, kept the squad in the game. 
The Pirate's Aguirre tallied four saves on the afternoon. 
The tie ends Notre Dame's four-game losing streak and marks the first lime since the squad's 5-0 routing of Villanova on Oct. 15 that the Irish have not fallen to a con­ference opponent. 
With the tie, the Irish even out their regular season record at 8-8-3 and bring their conference record to 4-5-2. 
The Irish will travel to Piscataway, N . .J., on Saturday to open the Big East tourna­ment against top-seed Rutgers. 
-
• 

page 22 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, November 4, 1999 
_
... 
-
Monday, November 8 thro 
103Hesburgh Library, 11 
Targeted Dorms: Carroll, 
Knott, Pangborn, Siegfri 
trlc Splrltu°'lltt .. .tillttit.fo! .. 
·· campus Bibles .•· Tuestiay;,Novernl:l Badin Hall Chapel. 
(/ / , \ < . dPreslders:·,~~·s~·r~d Heart· Basilica 
/::.-:i::i:_··_;-::::--=:c /::-·:· #;:j~);-~·/•·i-'=·
,saturcle,y,Novemt>er 6 Mass 
·.·.· •· s:po• p:111:r l::'~EIY~ Patrick M. Neary, C.$.C.. 
;';::~..h~a), November 1• Mass 
Oh youth, pass the bottle! Jim Lies, C.S.C. [Lies.4@nd.edu] 
Are you struck by the number of people around Notre Dame who seem unable to socialize, particularly with the opposite sex, without first consuming excessive amounts of alcohol? I probably shouldn't take up this topic here since, like sex and chastity, alcohol is one of those topics that could leave me yet again looking the prude. And yet, for some reason, I feel compelled, even obliged to say something on the topic. And it wouldn't be on this page if it didn't have something to do with a deep abiding concern for those who might read this column, and if it wasn't related to the spiritual life and health of this campus. 
To put it simply, alcohol on this campus is messing up people's lives. We as Campus Ministry would be remiss if we did not have something to say about the elephant in the middle of the room that all too many avoid talking about. As we attempt to nurture the spiritual life of this campus with our many liturgies and programs, we would be crazy to think that our efforts are unaffected by the use and abuse of alcohol on this campus. The ways in which we socialize have everything to do with the health and life of this com­munity, as individuals, as couples, as friends, as residence hall communities, and as the larger family of Notre Dame. 
Don't misunderstand me, I like to drink. It is, in fact, one of the few vices that I haven't publicly forsworn. I will never deny enjoying a few drinks with friends. Where we go wrong are those instances when we seem to depend on alcohol to give us what we need to adequately enter into a social situation. I don't think it takes a social scientist to figure out that there is something wrong with the way we socialize on this campus, especially at SYRs, Hall Formals, off-campus parties, and even on weekend nights (includ­ing Thursdays) at the bars. 
Please, please, don't misunderstand me. I am not a prohibitionist. I do not support our becoming a dry campus. I think we would be as remiss in dis­allowing alcohol on this campus as we would be if we didn't attempt to teach people about responsible drinking and personal accountability. This is an appropriate time and place to learn how to drink. But I think you know that the prepatory rituals which seem to happen on this campus before hall dances are not happening in your parents homes or before office parties or even before nights out with friends beyond these days. And while you might explain it away by saying that it's just a college thing, I worry that you'll walk away from this place with fewer friendships and be far less adept at the art of socializing. 
If we don't appreciate the fact that their is a direct correlation between the prevalent abuse of alcohol and the problems that we have with gender relations on this campus then we're nuts! Many would like to say that we drink so much because the social life on this campus is so bad. I wonder if the social life on this campus is so bad because we drink so much. Aside from the fact that we often sit around with the "guys" and drink, which isn't in itself a bad thing unless it becomes the very reason we gather, we should be thinking about how it relates to the gender relations on this campus. 
If we've come to believe that it's "normal" to enter into an evening with a person of the opposite sex, much less end it, seriously wasted then we need to think again. Too often, the drinking is inversely proportional to how well one knows the other person. And when we go out, already intoxicated, with the person we know least well, we're in no condition to meet them, and we end the evening (early, probably,) looking the fool, or at least not knowing them any better than when we started. What will you walk away from an evening like that with? And how often have you done things in relationship that you would never have done but for the fact that you were drunk? At the time it seems to heighten our courage, but more often, upon reflection, it impairs our judgement, especially regarding physical expression. How often would we like to have those moments back when we didn't consider well enough what we were doing? 
My real concern is that, in our present reality, we're not well disposed 
to learn how to socialize, to enter into deep and intimate relationships, friend­
ships, with those of the same or opposite sex. We live under this illusion that 
we're better communicators or funnier or less timid when we're drinking, or 
drunk, than when we're sober. But what is that going to do for us beyond 
these days when we're in a social setting where there is no alcohol? If you're 
ever going to meet that perfect partner at church, just as your mothers (and I!) 
pray you will, then you have to learn to overcome shyness and develop the 
skills of communication and humor without alcohol, not to mention get up 
early on a Sunday morning! 
It's a practical matter gang. It1s not about me, or Campus Ministry, or 
Student Affairs; it's about you. It's about making choices for your life that are 
consistent with the integrated whole of the rest of your life, and of the person 
that you want to be when you leave this place. In these days leading up to a 
multitude of hall dances, take itfor what it's worth and do with it what you 
will. But trust me, time for deepening in friendship is too fleeting to waste it. 
-C-AMPUS 
J\AINl5TRY 
Thursday, November 4, 1999 The Observer . TODAY page 23 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 29 One of the "50 In a halfhearted world's last way
1 Like some 
remaining
coffee 52 Here, in Le 
People's Havre
51950 Isaac 
Democratic 
Asimov novel 53 Type type: Abbr.
Republics 56 Editor Harold 
11 Conditioned 31 Not so exposed 14 Curbside call 57 Nothing at all
32 "The Karate 
15 "Unto the Sons" Kid" star Pat 58 Groovy archeologist's
author 34 Full of pep query?
16 Microphone 35 Archeologist's 61 Night school tester's word favorite film, subj.
with ''The"? 
17 Gets rich, as an 62 Trail travelers 
archeo!ogist? 40 A!l-nighter follower 63 Article in Stern 
19 TV inits. 41 Cantabs' rivals 64 "Still Crazy'' star
20 1999 British Petroleum 42 Coke, as 
Stephen acquisition originally touted 65 Cleans 
44 Fictional 66 Ruination plantation 21 Pokey 
22 Tube top 
45 Pol. monogram 
DOWN
23 John Jr.'s love 
of '52 and '56 
1 Ivy League city 26 Auteur's field 48 Peasants' 2 Alligator kin 
28 Thesaurus abbr. cooperatives 3 Obtain via shakedown ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 4 ?O's "in" spot 

Puzzle by Brendan Emmett Quigley
A N T E F L I P S Q U A B 5 Ending on a C A R D R O D E O U N C E nifia's name 24 It's a long story 43 Writer's no-no 51 Overgrown, in a 
T M E N E W O K C I R C A 6 Sci-fi killer 25 Like many a 45 Slowly 
way jalopy 54 "She's a Lady"7 Reo maker 46 Climate affecter songwriter
S"So 27 Scruffs 55 Strong cleaners 
30 Ermine, at times 47 Bettor's faith courtier 59 Sourdough's find 
9"Hamlet'' 
32 Bess's follower 49 The way up, 60 Enterprise inits. 
10 Popular 33 Black key maybe computer game 35 Orthodontist's -------------­
11 Compelled to creation Answers to any three clues in this puzzle take are available by touch-tone phone: 
36 Cast out
12 Privately 1-900-420-5656 (95ft per minute). 
37 Seiiora's scari 
C O H .....+-+--+-,.... 13 Tax protest of Annual subscriptions are available for the A T O S K F A N S 1773 38 Bl1;1s-ply, for one best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 M O O T S S L A T 18 Hoi 39 In a mound years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD JEFF BEAM 

.. 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
~~&,VT"{ 
~..,f. !) 0 1'\\11:.«. C11J F\ts>O w::>~1" 
Fox TRor 
1.\11\t;r ~.._&.~ OIOlll't ~tNilOU IS TuER~'s 11\\~ \11J6G 
'"fWENrY l"ERS.OtJ F"i.!.-T flt.'.tT ~, "TI\E EtJO IN Wl'IC.." D~L'I ONE (..\,\l\~~i€R 6ufNI\JE'S 
TOM KEELEY 
"l"tr-..£-s\'AwESO"'-lc ! 
"\"':, -:TV.ST L1,:f S G,£.T
I 
'-e.ST Ii'~\~ (',\Q\JIE. f'\.11., I S.,..~iEO.' \)\ l-lE "\ \>JI\.._T ~Re \JJE 

--, ~, \>JMT1t,&, l=O~~
.._., 
BILL AMEND 
l SUPPoSE 1 SHOULD 
It must be awfully hard on one's pride to be forced to work In pants with fruit. 
HOROSCOPE 
lHURSDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1999 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON nns DAY: Loretta Swit, Pauline To,;ere, Pett!l' Boynton. Markie Post, Walter 
Cronkite 
Happy Birthday: Don't hesitate to 
ask for nelp. You can get ahead this 
year if you rev up your motor and 
plunge into your pursuits earnestly. 
Precision is one quality that will help 
bring you the success that you're 
looking for. This is a year of action. 
You've planned your strategies; now 
take action. Your numbers: 1, 16, 22, 
31,37,44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Extra 
energy means you will be even more 
outgoing than usual. You should be 
pursuing potential partners or plea. 
ing the one you already have. You 
need to get involved in physical 
activities. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Get 
down to business. You can make a 
difference if you are willing to focus 
on reaching your goals. Invest your 
money in safe long-term investments. 
00000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): 
Investments will not be as they 
appear. It is evident that there is 
someone around you who is trying to 
take advantage of you. You may want 
to consider changing some of your 
friends. 00 
CANCER Oune 21-July 22): Your 
emotional state will leave you vul­
nerable and confused. Think before 
you act. Lovers may not be truthful. 
Minor accidents will occur if you 
don't take precautions. 0000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your gen­
erosity will lead to financial setbacks 
or difficulties with children. Someone 
dose to your heart may tzy to curtail 
your freedom. Don't let anyone push 
beam 1@nd.edu 
EUGENIA LAST 
you into things you'll! not !IW1! about 
000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sepl 22): This is not the day to make deci1ions or changes to your personal life. You will be feeling a little rejected. Take some time to look at your options and ronsider the possibilities available to 
you.000 
,.
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 221: Trips will be enlightening, but before you leave, make sure that you have attended to all your responsibilities. Arguments with Ielatives may lead to a split in the family. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't leave your personal papers unfin­ished. The end of the year is fast approaching, and you need to make the necessary adjustments now. Prob­lems with elders must be taken care of as well. 0000 
SAGTITARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You'll have to c:oncentrate on the one you love if you want to ~ things moving along smoothly. Avoid beirig indulgent or extravagant, regardless of the occasion. 00 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You may be asked to work overtime to get a little extra time off during the festive season. Your attitude wlll make a difference to your future employment. 00000 
AQUARIUS Oan. 20-Feb. 18): It's time to do a little shopping, but don't go overl>oard. Stick to the &udget you set, and you won't have any prob­lems with your mate later on. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 201: It won't be easy to deal with relatives today. Do not let them overreact to situations that are pending. It -is best to refuse to argue or let them put you in an awkward position. 000 
Birthday Baby: You are so easygoing that it will be important not to let yourself get taken for granted throughout your life. You know how to enjoy life, and 6ecause of this some people you meet will be jealous. You will teach those who are rigid to looeen up. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at utroadvice.com, eugenialut.com, utromate.com.) Cl 1999 Univerul 1'!<11 Syndicate 
-
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q 
" 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name _______________________ Address ___________________ City _______ State ___Zip_____ 


Net victory 
The Irish volleyball team won ontJ ofits final regu­lar season matches Thursday with a four­game victory over the Redbirds ofIllinois State. 
PORTS 
page 14 Girton 
O
THE 
page 24 BSERVER Thursday, November 4, 1999 
FOOTBALL 
Class of 2001 stands strong despite defections 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Associate Spom Editor 
The Class of 2001 laughed and joked together as they walked off the practice field last night. 
Moving in a close clump, they showed no signs of the beating their class has endured from Student Affairs suspensions, transfers and injuries. Of the original 19 players that signed with Notre Dame on Feb. 5, 199 7, only 12 are left on the active roster, 
"I think retaining players is a challenge, and that is some­thing that is a priority for us," Bob Davie said about the reten­tion rate of his first recruiting class as head coach. "] think it is easy to look at the numbers. But you've got to look at the big picture. First of all, that first recruiting class, you take the job in December, signing date is Feb. 2. It is tough." 
With all the turnover. it would be easy for the class to lose its unity and leadership ­but that hasn't happened. Even
.. as one classmate after another left the program, the Class of 2001 stood strong. "It's a responsibility for us to hold up the Class of 2001," safety Justin Smith said. "We know we have to say tight. We see other classes staying tight, so we have to stay tight too." The strain on the Class of 2001 to stay strong has been tougher than on most classes. "You look as to why players have left," Davie said "That is another subject. So it is a chal­lenge for us, but I think we have done a pretty good job with it." Student Affairs has been especially rough on the Class of 
decisions by the discipline­running back Cooper Rego expected to play a big role in school by Student Affairs for2001. Four of the seven players enforcing department. early in his freshman year. the future Irish backfield. discipline reasons as a sopho­not currently on the active ros­It dealt the class its first blow Rego was an All-American Linebacker Kevin Dansby,ter are off the team because of 
see FOOTBALL/page 16 
when it expelled highly touted coming out of high school and like Rego, was kicked out of 

SAINT MARY'S ATHLETICS 
Belles improve student athletic facilities on campus 
-
By KATIE McVOY 
Sports W ricer 
Saint Mary's is focused on the complete woman as improvements to athletic facil­ities continue. 
The pledge of meeting MIAA standards is coupled with a plan to improve facilities for the complete Saint Mary's woman. 
"Saint Mary's strives for the development of the spirit of the mind, the spirit of the soul and the spirit of the body," athletic director Lynn Kachmarik said. "We want to work out that body." 
Saint Mary's has already started improving its facilities for varsity sports. Improvements are almost complete on the tennis courts; new playing surfaces has been installed, and in spring, new nets and other final touches will be added. 
"The tennis courts look great," Kachmarik said, "It is a really nice facility for the team and for the Saint Mary's community as a whole." 
In years to come Saint Mary's hopes to improve the swimming pool and to add a scoreboard for the soccer and softball fields. 
New equipment has also been added to Angela Athletic facility. Three state-of-the-art treadmills, six Stairmasters and several now sets of weights are now available for students. 
In years to come, more equipment, including Cybex 
machines, will be added to the facility. Kachmarik hopes these improvements will encourage students to use the facility. 
"I would love to see more students using Angela," Kachmarik said. "We are bringing in what the students want, and we want a good stu­dent response. Usage is really at a minimum, and I hope these improvements will bring more women to the facility." 
The Saint Mary's athletic department has also hired an athletic trainer to provide bet­ter preventive and rehabilita­tive care for its varsity ath­letes. 
"We can now provide the care our athletes need to per­form at their peak," Kachmarik said. 
In addition to these improve­ments, a new booster group for Saint Mary's athletics is beginning under Kachmarik's direction. The Saint Mary's Belles Varsity Club will be a way for the entire Saint Mary's 
see BELLES/page 18 
• 
vs. Seton Hall, ' at Nebraska-Omaha. vs. Ohio All-Stars, in Big East Quarterfinals ' ~ friday, 8:05 p.m. Sunday, 7:30 p.m. SMC Volleyball
SPORTS ~ 
i MIAA semifinals 
Friday, 5 p.m. at Calvin College, 
I ATA EB
( vs. Qatar, ar Tennessee, Cross country at NCAA Friday, 5:30 p.m. r Friday, 7:30 p.m. ~ Saturday, 7:30 p.m. District IV Championships, 
t~­
I 
GLANCE •I Nov. 13, 10:30 a.m. 
I 
I 
l 





