So long 311 
The fall of the Wall 
311 recently released a new album that has received 
R.(!acl viewpoint to find a number of di}Jerent opin­

Tuesday
mixed reviews. Read Scene's review of the alternatil'e 
ions on the 10-year anniversary ofthe destruction 
band's new album. 
ofthe Berlin Wall. 
NOVEMBER 9, 
Scene . page 14-15 
Viewpoint . page 12-13 
1999 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIII NO. 48 HTTP://OBSERVER.N D.EDU 


10 years after the fall 
"/ noticed immediately that East Berlin just wasn't caught up to the times." 
Kellie Hazell 
. Students tell of . The fall marked living in Germany the beginning of during the fall Germany's 
struggle for Hy NORREEN GILLESPIE reunification 
Sainr Mary's Editor 
By ERIN LARUFFAl.ikP any othnr studnnt in his 
News Writer 
sixth graclP history class, Luis Matos sat down with volumes of The Berlin Wall, along with its 
Pncyclopndias and began to barbed wire and checkpoint
wriln a rPporl about Germany towers, still remains a symbol of'-spndlkally, thn Berlin Wall. 
the Cold War and 20th cnnturyThPn lw found out Im was international politics. Today, inmoving LlwrP. 
the place of" one famous check­Thn thought was lnrrif'ying to point, stands Berlin CheckpointLhf• middlP srhooler, who knnw 
Chari ie Plaza, an eight-story
!' n1J11gh about the currn nt 
modern oflicn tower, accordingf'VPnts in Nov(•mlwr of' 1989 to to Business Week. 
know that lw didn't want to livti Clearly, change in Germanyin Last (;mmany. 
and Europe in general has bflen"Whnn I heard we would be 
tremendous since the collapse
moving lo Cormany. I started of the Berlin Wall on Nov. 9,asking, 'Wail, we'rn not moving 1989, but the story of the Berlinlo 1-:ast Germany. am wn'!'" Im 
Wall, both before and after
n•mPrnlrnrcd. "Knowing that we 
1989, is complicated. 
wt~rn moving to the West was At the end of World War II,definitPly a load o!Tmy mind." 
the Soviet Union controlledEvm1 with minimal under­what became the communiststanding of an event which country of East Germany.
marked thP nm! of' Urn Cold War British, French and U.S. forcesand tlw bPginning of" a new era occupied the western portion of'for (;orman history, Matos, now the country, which became non­
a Notrn llamn senior. had 
communist West Germany. 
pir.kml up on a tm1sion that still On Aug. 13, I 961, residonts of"
exists. While tlw fall of the 
Berlin discovered a barbnd-wirelkrlin Wall was a beginning for barrier dividing tlrnir city. The
tlw political unification of 
12-foot high, 10:1-miln longGnrmany. t1msions that have Berlin Wall soon replaced the 
see GERMANY/page 8 see WALL/page 4 



Prison: A rehabilitation center or a warehouse? 

By MICHELLE KRUPA 
News Writer 
MICHIGAN CITY, Ind. 

Main Street was almost (,mpty in a small Northern Indiana town Monday after­noon. 
Only one of 1,835 residents enjoyed the crystal-clear autumn day. In khakis and a white T-shirt, he leaned against a concreto post outside a two­story, red brick building and stared across the street toward the community's church, com­plete with ornate stained-glass windows. 
But the sun's rays didn't cre­atn colorful patches on the ground as it passed through tintrd glass. Iron bars forbade the light's ponetration, and the only glow was reflection from the barbed-wire hoops strung atop every building and fenc<1 in sight. 
Main Street isn't quite the 
same at the Indiana State Prison in Michigan City as it is in most American towns. 
Fourteen Notre Dame stu­dents visited the facility Monday to study crime and punishment, a lesson required by sociology professor Paul Magro in his course, Criminal Justice. The real-life classroom showed that despite efforts by corrections officers to rehabili­tate inmates, prison is a monot­onous, depressing and oft.en dangerous place to live. 
Prom behind a giant, wood<1n table in a room normally reserved for parole hearings. Hon Sanford, drnssed in prison­issue khakis and a gray sw<:at­sh irt and without shackles, explainNI what prison life is like, from the insidn. At 25 . Sanford has spent almost half his life behind the 40-foot con­crete walls that separate the maximum security facility from the rest of the world. 
At 13, he and a "friend" were involved in a double homicide in Indianapolis. While Sanford's co-conspirator turned state's evidence and won a lenient eight-year sentence for his part in the murd,irs. Hon was charged as an adult and sen­tenced to 170 years in prison. 

At 15, he arrived at Michigan City, the youngest person ever to bn held at the institution. · "I was a baby in this setting," Sanford said. "There was nobody f'or me to hang out with. I was terril'icd. There am killers, rapers. child molestPrs, robbers, thieves in this placn. I was terrified." 
Learning the ropes 
With a s1wenth-gradn ncluca­tion and no onn around younger than ninn y(iars his senior, Hon attempted to takP the GED, hut because or ago regulations, Urn state would not grant him tlrn certificate, equiv-
see PRISON/page 4 page 2 

INSIDE COLUMN 

I 
I 
r-
Seventh grade reflections 
I was talking to my little brother on Instant Messenger the other day. He was proudly telling me about his football game last Saturday and how he had made his first touchdown. As I asked him the details of his game-winning play, I too 
started to beam with pride. He has played for several years now, and aner every game he always "was so close" to making a touch­down. This was an athletic feat he had been working towards since his first trip to a Notre Dame football game. 
Despite my honest happi­ness for my brother's accom­plishment. a bit ofremorse lightly overcame me as well. I wasn't there to cheer him on. I wasn't there to hug him after the game. I wasn't them to see his moment of well-deserved glory. 


Maureen Smithe 
Copy Editor 
As Jsat at my computer chatting with him, my mind started racing back to when I was in sev­enth grade.just like him. 
I felt so old then. College kids were way beyond any reach of my imagination. They were so grown up and so mature. They were so busy all the time. I used to get so intimidated by anyone over the age of 15. Does my brother see me in the same way I used to see college students? 
Seventh grade doesn't seem like such a long time ago. I can still remember the smell of the lunchroom and the pain of not making the cheer­leading squad and the excitement of switching classes every hour. I felt so in control ofmy life, even though I was quite dependent on my par­ents and teachers. Compared to the elementary school kids, I was old and intimidating. 
What makes me different now from the person I was then? How much of a separation is there between my brother and me? 
\Nhen I think about how quickly seven years has passed me by, I get a little scared. Seven years ago I was taking a brown bag lunch to school via a big yellow school bus. Seven years from now I will be 26, on my own, possibly even married. 
This in-between stage we are in proves how quickly time flies. Sometimes I feel like J want to be 12 again, and other times I wish I was 26. 
As my conversation '\l\<ith my br_other pro­gressed, I became even more thoughtful. When I was in seventh grade, college was something to look forward to -it was always so far in the future. But, now I am here and it is my present. Part of me wishes I could be my brother's age once again because I now know how great col­lege is and how worth the wait it was. I want to always have it in my future because being here is so great. 
My brother has four years of college to look forward to, and I already have over a year of col­lege to look back upon. When my brother is my age, I will be 26 and a full adult. I know I will look onto him with envious eyes because he will have the time I am now so desperately trying to hold on to. He is the lucky one. 
Maybe seven years from now I will be back on campus for a football game. Maybe the touch­down my brother made last Saturday is the start of his Notre Dame experience. 
Maybe we both need to appreciate the time we have right now. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Obserr1er. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Josh Bourgeois Emmett Malloy Maureen Smithe Jenn Zatorski 
Courtney Boyle Graphics 
Sports Mandi Powell 
MollyMcVoy Production 
Viewpoint Brian Kessler 
Lila Haughey Lab Tech 
Shannon Bennett 
The Ob;crvcr (USPS 599 2-4000) is pul,li>hed Monday rhrough Friday nccpt during exam and vacuion periods. Th.c Observ~r is a tnt'm~r of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights .are reserved, 
The Observer . INSIDE Tuesday, November 9, 1999 
i believe that the "I am sounding an district attorney's alarm to America to fin<.ings are correct, restore training and and that the officers jobs and assistance 
involved in the ... or there will be a shootings werejustified troubled land." in their actions. ,, 
Leon Sullivan David Bejarano on receiving the ND Award San Diego poice chief on Demetru Dubose's death 
"I would love to "ee a law come into effect where women who are in for an abortion be required to hear their baby's heartbeat . ., 
Dawn Kober 
"abortion sumvor" 
"Animals have no advocates; they can't speak for themselves. It is up to the people who care about them.,, 
Phyllis Shelton-Ball Notre Dame prof on animals in Pet Refuge 
OUTSIDE THE DOME Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Family of dead MSU stuc;Ient raises awareness 
EAST LANSING. Mich. 

One year after Bradley McCue's death, his friends and family are still encouraging students to drink responsibly. 
The Michigan State University junior died in the early hours of his 21st birthday, Nov. 5, 1998, after consuming 24 shots in two hours while celebrating with friends at Rick's American Cafe in East Lansing, Mich. His blood-alcohol level was ·reported at .44, four times the 
amount considered legally drunk. 
Since McCue's death, university 
health officials and McCue's parents 
have worked to raise awareness 
about alcohol poisoning and binge 
drinking. McCue's death drew nation­
al attention as it came a year after 
the alcohol-related deaths of students 
at MIT and Louisiana State University. 
In January, a Ferris State University 
"/ think there are probably some people who still think 'It can't happen to me.,,, 
Cindy Mccue Bradley McCue's mother 
student died of alcohol poisoning. 

On Feb. 2, the McCue family formed BRAD, Be Responsible About Drinking, to educate high school and college students about alcohol poison­ing. 
"We don't want to see what hap­pened to Bradley happen to anybody else," his mother, Cindy McCue, said. "We don't want anyone else to have to experience this." 
Although it has been a year, the 
UC group unveils hate crime Web site 
BERKELEY, Calif. 

The University of California-Berkeley ASUC is planning to unveil a Web site Monday to monitor hate crimes and provide information about their impact on the campus community. The Web site, sponsored by the Student Advocate Office, provides reporting forms for victims and copies of legislation and statistics a.bout hate crimes. Student Advocate Jen Shen, who is organizing a week-long series of hate crime awareness events on campus, said the reporting forms on the Web site serve a dual pur­pose because they will allow her to compile statistics of hate crimes on campus and to. take action against reported perpetrators. ~It is a good way to figure out what types of hate crimes are happening," Shen said. "And when they submit the form, we can follow up if they want us to." Shen said with the victim's consent, appropriate authorities will be notified of the reported information. "We'll send it to a certain authority," she said. "For example, if it's graffiti we'll tell the city and if it's violent crime then we can tell the police." 
LOCAL WEATHER 

~,~,~~~~ i) ~ &}. 
Shower,; T-storms Rain Flu"ies Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Clcudy CloUdy Via ASllOClllled PreSll GrsphicsNst 
pain has not gone a.way, she said. 
"Things Vvill never be like they were before, no matter how much time passes," she said. 
Sending 21st birthday cards to stu­dents is one of BRAD's several aware­ness projects. The cards go out to stu­dents at MSU and 10 other colleges and universities across the country. About 150 cards arc sent out to MSU students each week. The cards are signed by Cindy and John McCue. 
"We've gotten quite a few notes from students, e-mails from students, saying thank you," she said. "It makes me think it is [working]." 
But Cindy McCue said she realizes they will not reach everyone. 
"I think there are probably some people who still think 'It can't happen to me,"' she said. 
She estimated they have signed about 5,000 cards since April. 
IU officials respond to protests 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 
Previously, according to the administrative policy state­ment, the primary purpose of the Indiana University licensing program was to protect the integrity of the uni­versity's name from unauthorized uses of registered trademarks by counterfeit products. If a Nov. 4 press release is any indication of things to come, that protec­tion JTiight expand beyond trademark infringement Ronald Hendrickson, president of IU's Advanced Research & Technology Institute, made a statement Thursday in response to discussions with JU students and faculty as well as community members concerned about the exploitation of workers involved in the manufacturing of products bearing official IU emblems. The coalition of anti-sweatshop groups and kindred organizations includ­ed No Sweat, Indiana Jobs with Justice, the IU College Democrats; Amnesty International and Anti Racist Action. Bennett Baumer, a member of No Sweat who was in attendance at the meeting, said this would be an important step and that he and his organization are cau­tiously optimistic. "Their heart is in the right place, but they have yet to do anything substantial," he said. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 

The AccuWeather«> forecast for noon, Tuesday, Nov. 9. • 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day 30s 
~ 
!t, 1999 AocuWeather, Inc_ COLD WARM STATIONARY 
p,_!J!JII(•: 
~

® © C1l E2;l. IZ] Q ,,.,,. ~' .#._iii.¥1
. .
High Low Showen• Re.In T~litorma Flurrlea Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
V,.! Asrsociated PrtJtis 

Atlanta 77 54 Las Vegas 69 46 Phoenix 80 55 Baltimore 72 48 Memphis 75 54 Sacramento 64 52 
.

Boston 58 34 MIiwaukee 70 51 SI. Lou,s 77 58 
Chicago 72 51 New York 62 55 Tampa 82 61 
Houston 79 59 Philadelphia 69 so Wash DC 73 39 
Thursday, November 9, 1999 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3· 

ND announces award for public service in Latin Alllerica 
le,1dership with the pnis1mlation American who has made Pxtra­
By MARIBEL MOREY of' tlui Notn-1 Dame Award for ordinary contributions to the 
News Wrirn Distinguislrnd Public Service in progress of the Latin American 
Lalin .\m(Tica. region. For tlw first time. Notre nam<\ The award. which will be pre­"As a Catholic universitv, will r1irngniZ(' Lat.in Anwrican sentnd on May 9, honors a Lalin [:\Jotre Dame] wants to under-

SUB's ~op homo re literary festival presents-
No, not Aristotle, Plato, 
It was the Arab philosopher,,,I 
(14th century) 
Read him in the ori 
IEGINNINI? MEAR 10 
For more inform 
••\t ¾;;+:1 ..•tAt.,·ri··:,0t*:i;l!*1: 
score people who've made singu­lar contributions towards the implementation of social teach­ings of the Church," said rather Timothy Scully, vir,e president and senior associate provost. "These are our neighbors who share a com­mon history ly elected gov­

"These are our neighbors
and Church. ernment fol­We are Lalli who share a common his­lowing the American." 
tory and Church. We are Pinochet dic­
L a t i n tatorship,
{ all] American. "· 
American Mainwaring, leaders should Scully and two 
be rewgnized Father Timothy Scully representa­because of tives from The
vice-president and senior
their efforts Coca-Cola
associate provost
"to lead a Company will 
country that is underdevel­oped and to sustain a democra­cy," such challenges which the United States does not face, 
. Scully said. Notre Dame Kellogg Institute director Scott Mainwaring emphasized Notre Dame's links to the Latin American communi­ty. "Latin America is a huge region of the world, one being very important to us," Mainwaring added. "Notre Dame 
decide the n1cipient after the Dec. 1 nomination deadline. 
"We felt it was important to include leaders from t.he south­ern part of Latin America land from] Brazil because it is the largest country in South America with half of Latin America's pop­ulation," Scully said. "!Chile was chosenI because of its pioneering policy of lib<1ralism." 
The winner will receive $10,000 from The Coca-Cola Company. 

University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
J\hr:ttO:::MusrQVE 
CONCERT XIII: "IN CONVERSIONE SANCTI pAULI11 

$>cbola JElusicorum 
9:30 p.m. Tues., Nov. 9, 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 

Free and open to the public. www.nd.edu/ ~music for more info 
One Night Doubles 
Badminton Tournament 

Friday, November 12 
6:30 PM 
has historically strong ties to Lalin America and for us ttwsc arc-,.,ery strong connections." 
A committee of six, including First Lady of Brazil Huth Cardoso, ChilPan prnsident Patricio Aylwin, head of' the lirst 
d11mocratical­


Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 
,,,-----..... 
, , ' \ 
I \ I ' 
I I 
I : "' 
I 
' 
'
iii, 


SAVE A LIFE 
On November 10, 1999 from 6:30a.m. to 4:30p.m. at St. Joseph's Regional Medical Center 
(Hospital Attrium) 
-Give one small vile of blood to be on the 
National Bone Marrow Registry -No Fee Involved -For more information, call 283-0636 
Sponsored by the Junior League of South Bend and St. Joseph's Regional Medical Center Bring 2 references (name, address, phone number) 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, November 9, 1999 
up that econ book. It's like a must remake their lives after tion, grounds keeping and cus­prison, she explained, is like deterrent. They don't want any­existing in a system that satis­todial maintenance. cash. lt is prohibited because it
Prison 
thing to do with that." fies their everv need, down to While amenities like a televi­gives one offender advantage 
continued from page 1 
alent to a high school diploma. 
So Ron gravilated toward 

friends he knew from the 
streets and who knew his 
father. For three years, he bat­
tled through and learned the 
system, witnessing illicit activity 
and watching friends becoming 
victims of violence, including 
stabbing, along the way. 
"There are four things you'll 

fiud at every prison in the conti­·nental United States: money, drugs, homosexuals and weapons," he explained. "A guy 
with 600 vears could care less 
about the administration or 
someone else, so he goes ahead 
and makes trouble. What does 
he have to lose'?" 
But even with almost two cen­

turies to servf' behind bars, Ron 
decided soon after facing cor­
rection's department punish­
ments -restricted recreation 
time, diminishing opportunity 
for parole -that he needed to 
occupy his idle mind so it 
wouldn't "fall into the hands of 
the devil." 
At 18, he earned his GED and 

currently takes courses offered 
at the prison by nearby Grace 
College. He aims to get a bache­
lor's degree in business admin­
istration and finds that focusing 
on studies makes it easier to 
avoid falling in with the wrong 
crowd. "All I have to do is hold 
Wall 
continued from page l 
wire. Hundreds of East Germans died over the next few decades trying to escape to th~ West. 
In the late 1960s, West German politicians developed the "Change Through Drawing Closer" policy in hopes of ending the division between the two Germanys, according to J. Robert Wegs, a l\otre Dame history pro­fessor. 
West Germany then made deals Vvith both the Soviet Union and East Germany to allow West Germans to travel in the East, especially in order to visit family members they had not seen in decades. In addition, East Germans began to see the better living conditions of West Germany through the tourists, Wegs said. 
"lt changed the mentality of East Germans," Wegs said. 
In addition to economic factors within the two Germanys, vari­ous international factors also led up to the collapse of the Berlin Wall, including the Soviet Union's move towards democra­tization prior to 1989. 
In addition, Hungary's opening of its border with Austria in the summer of 1989 aided in the Wall's removal. East Germans were then able to pass through Hungary and Austria into West Germany. 
East German citizens began to destrov sections of the Wall on ;\love1~ber 9, 1989. Their gov­ernment later began to remove the Wall, and in 1990, the two parls of Germany reuniled. 
The proc11ss of reunification since the fall has not been easy. 
"[Reunification] forced the two different German populations to face their fundamentally diffcr­cut histories," said A. James McAdams, chair of the Notre Dame Govermnenl Department. 
"\The <;erm!\l'I economy] is not nearly as strong as Germans would hope," he said. 
In addition, high urn~mploy­ment is a major area of concern in Germany, although Wegs said that most European countries the dai'ly routine. Explaining sion set are available to Sanford's reliance on the sys­inmates, they are expensive on
Rehab center? 
tem, prison administrator Gus wages of $13 per month. A 13­
Ron works hard at school 
Carlson said, "On a busy day, inch TV costs $199, and thebecause he truly believes that he'll make 10 decisions. On a headphones required to htMrone day, he'll walk free, outside busy day, you'll make 500." programs are an additionalthe boundaries of the makeshift $35; together, those require 18town of convicts 30 miles east months of wages to purchase.
of South Bend. But while Ron's The color of money 
Black market sales are alive
motivation is one that correc­Facing an entire world filled and well; in the non-smoking
tions officers call a sign of a with decisions often plagues 
institution,
svstem that can rehabilitate former a pack of
of'fenders, inmates and ad.min­inmates, 
cigarettes
istra tors know Ron is the officials ''Of course I want to be free, 
goes for
exception. s a i d . 
but I would like to be pre­
$50.

"We used to just give inmates Offendr,rs 
pared. But prison is no longer And the
$75 and a bus ticket home," who· reen­
monetary
said Gil Peters, a case manager ter society about rehabilitation. It's 
system is
for the fndiana Department of must adjust about warehousing. You have 
closely
Correction. "Just recently, we to a system 
to rehabilitate yourself." monitored,
first attempted, through a tran­of mone­sitional program, to give tary value a s 
Universityinmates tools to get a .iob, shel­non-exis-Ron Sanford 
students
ter, food: ideas to help them to tent in 
prisoner 

learned
be more successful wheu they prison. leave here." " Y e s , "It's a scary thought, going"' caf,italism 
out into society with no skills," Sanford sa.id. "Of course l want tobefree,butlwouldliketobe prepared. But prison is no longer about rehabilitation. It's about warehousing. You have to rehabilitate yourself." 
And for most offenders who do not seek their own education in prison, it's that lack of preparation that leads them back to the drugs and viulence that landed them in prison in the first place, noted Peters. 
In fact, released offenders 
have high unemployment rates. 
Reunification has also cost more money than originally expected, according to McAdams. West Germans hav.e spent a tremendous amount of money to help rebuild the East. 
"Germany's Chancellor, Gerhard Schroeder, wants to reign in government spending and streamline its tax system," said Notre Dame government professor Andrew Gould. 
East Germans, on the other hand, are upset that some of · their socialist programs, such as government-run child care, were abandoned during reunification. West Germany cut such pro­grams when it imposed its gov­ernmental system on the East, Wegs said. 
"The problem [of reunification] was how to make a single econo~ my out of two countries at such different levels of economic development," Gould said. 
Of course, East Germans now have a higher per capita income, new cars, restored buildings and increased opportunities than they experienced during separa­tion from the West. Manufacturing is also growing at a faster rate than it is in the West. In addition, East Germans now have the right to travel and make choices, and most would 
not  want  to  return  to  the  
Communist  system,  said  
McAdams.  

"The Communist system clear­ly didn't work," he said. "Many East Germans bad realized that [by the l 980s]." 
Overall, the German economy appears to be improving. 
"Unemployment has stabilized in West Germany," said Wegs. He said he believes that the upturn in i.he Western. economy will spread to the Rast. 
The telecommunications indus­try, for example, has experi­enced growth in Germany in recent years. 
The effects of the collapse of the Wall were felt far beyond Germany. 
"It's taken the Europeans out of the protf'ctive shPIJ that was provided by tlie Cold War," McAdams said. 
"The main effect [of Gorman is at an all-time high at ISP," Ron explained. 'Tm· indigent. I make $13 a month. I make sweatshop wages. But all offenders have to buv their own personal items. A ba;· of soap is $1, toothpaste is $2-something. By the time r know it, I'm broke." 
Inmates in Michigan City make license plates, offender clothing, metal storage cabinets and farm for income. They also perform service labor at the facility, including food prepara­
unification on Europe has been] to open up central European countries as legitimate candi­dates for entry into the European Union," said Gould. "Germany and other European countries now have to wrestle with the question of how to organize European society without the militarily imposed division into capitalism and communism." 
Various Central European countries -among them Poland, Hungary, and the Czech Republic while visit­

ing Cell Block B, a stuffy brick building with five tiers of cells caged by chain-linked fences. 
An Irish football starter was recognized by several prisoners as he toured an open cell -six feet wide, nine feet long, eight feet tall. When asked for an autograph, he obliged, but a corrections officer quickly snatched the paper from his hand and escorted the group outside through two heavily guarded gates. 
An athlete's autograph in 
-plan to join the European Union by 2003, according to Business Week. These countries have been able to privatize large portions of their economies, and the standard of living has risen. 
Even what was once the Communist Party in Germany has reinvented itself since 1989, but the party continues to repre­s·ent the views of many East Germans. 
There was an increase in the amount of votes for former over others. It also endangers that inmatfl, leaving him and his valuables prey for jealous or vindictive neighbors. 
Officers are aware of this del­icate balance. As Carlson-reiter­ates, "These guys are not hero for lying to their moms." 
Another world 

For the most part, inmates who spoke to students encour­aged them to stay in school and to help their friends and sib­lings do the same, to avoid end­ing up behind bars. 
While most occupy their days with work and reading, offend­ers said they miss their fami­lies; one inmate had a tally of letters received from and sent to family membors taped to the cinderblock wall of his cell. 
"Everyday is the same thing," he said, rocounting his daily schedule -4:30 a.m. to 7 p.m. with trips back to his cell throughout thfl day "to be counted." 
For now, this is his life ­meals and license plates and hasketball and sleep. He, like the others, are getting used to the fact that their town is differ­ent from the rest in America; theirs is one of few Main Streets that, in addition to a library, a hospital and a general store, includes a quaint and ominous building which the others don't have -the execution house. 
Communists in Berlin municipal voting last month, according to The l\ew York Times. The largest percentage of the votes for Communists came from east­ern Berlin 
The three major world leaders of the late 1980s -the Soviet Union's Mikhail Gorbachev, West Germany's Helmut Kohl and for­mer U.S. President George Bush -will be in Berlin to celebrate the anniversary of the Wall's col­lapse. 
Oeliu-e1"r1f Tk fkj~t Pizza/ @3@f3l~ ~[u@ @O@~[k 71m@~cflGl~gg  
12 Anytime Anytime you call between you call between 910 11~2 5:30 & 7:00, 10:30-12:59 9 the price of yourthe price of yourI 2 large 1 large 1 topping 6 topping pizzas pizza is the time you call.is the time you call. * Plus tax* Plus tax  
r--------------,Lunch Special1 1 I Small 1 Topping I ND store I 2 Cans of Coca-Cola product I Saint Mary's/ I $5.99271-1177 North Village MallL-------------.JI 271-PAPA  


orld 
I ¦ 

'li.1esday, Novemeber 9, 1999 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
-_-_-_-_-_---:...-========--=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=--============================================================================================ 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
11-year-old pleads innocent to incest charges 
GOLDEN, Colo. 
t\n I I -year-old Swiss-Amnrican boy pleaded innm:ont Monday to !'harges ho molested his 5-year-old sistor in a case that has crr.ated a f'uror in E11rop1,. Hauul Wulhrich is accusr.cl of incnsl and snxual assault. lfo could facu up to two years in j11vn11ilc dcl.enl.ion if convicted. Tlrn chargns against l{aoul stmn from a com­plaint hy a nnighbor in tho llnnvnr suburb of Ev11rgnw11. Haoul and his parents dony tho drnrgPs, saying !w had pulled down his sisters undnrwnar to h!dp her urinatn. Swiss and c;nr111a11 rnnrlia have cllampiorrnd Haoul's caww. t'Xprnssing oulrag,i ov1•r his arrost and the six wcnks he spnnt in a juvenile detention cPntm·. Thn hoy's lawyt'rs argU<1d during tlrn 45-mimrln arraignnwn!. !.hat lho case should 1111 thrown out 011 llw grouncls·that his right to a spn1•dy trial has b1rnn violated. 
Baby found, dead since 1979 
NEW YOHK 
Though she lived alon11 in her Brooklyn apartment. Madnlyn Carmichael was haunlnd hy tlw sound ol' a cryiug baby. She complainnd l'ri•qunntly to tlw building supnrintendent, who insistl'Cl that no childrnn liv11d nearby. Now it turns oul lhn complaints had a macabre nwaning: Acting on a tip, police found the mummilied body or a littlP girl. dead for 20 years, nntornh11d in a trunk in Madelyn Carmichael's closPL Police are convinced the tmldkr was Latanisha Carmichael, Madelyn C:armil:h,wl's daughtPr. Madelyn Carmichael, fiO. was arrnslPd Friday on suspicion of' mur­der. She rnmainml hospitalizml alfor fainting when dntnctivns found the body of' tlw 3-year­old girl. Slw has rnqucstml a co11rt-appoint0d allorney hut no one had b{111n named by Monday. 
Bill may broaden satellite television 
Wt\SIIINGTON 
llottse and Senate rrngotiators reaclrnd agremnent Monday on a measure that would mrnblP millions of' sat1!1lite television viewers to watch local TV news. weather and sports broadcasts. just as cable owners do. The legis­lation, which is subject to approval by both chambers, would allow DirecTV, EchoStar and other companies b11am local broadcast signals to custonrnrs who use either pizza-sized satel­lite dislrns or big "backyard" dislrns. Under existing law, companies are barred from doing this. Tlrn bill is an effort Lo make satel­lite rnrnpanies strong,1r competitors to cable operators. Satellite companies will be able to start providing local stations as soon as the hill lwcomns 
l,kiiii:ltiiiiMM••:•
Dow AMF:x: 
809.47 JONES + 0·26 Ni1stl:1t1:
+14_37 
LJ 
3(43.97 •41. 6!i 
NYSE 
630.37 +J.01 

s~'ii I' 500: Coin1msite 1377.0 I 
Volume:
10,718.85 
, 6.78 18,7!!!i,O:l~,86.J 
VOLUME LEADERS 

Clltl2Ata :c;11::1ta ?iii C'IIMtal. s ,1wui1 RBJ.C!i 
HIC1'080PT CO:RP AkAZON,COK INC \rllLI, ,:"Ot,fPUTU  MS:FT ·"'""LIELL  -L, 77 -.JO.U -1. s~  -1.6,US ..u.o6as -Cl .ilOO  89.U 713; 00 40.U  
COMP'-,Q COMPU'TSIII  CPQ  ~s.a  -1, 125-0  lO,',S,  
ClCO RYB'l'l!Kfi l':rIZllJI. INC  csco...  H.B .o.n  +l.8715 . O .:1500  75, Jl 3S. QO  
LUCINT T!'CH  !NC  LU  . S, 5fl  t] .1500  71. 25  
tJ'N MICBOSYB'UM  """"  +LOO  +l.Ul5  .lll.i8  
u,aINO N&'MfO:,l~  PAClZ  . 6' ;t.;i  +0,0611  l.Ql  
S't"APLIS INC  !PLS  -l. 4 l  ·0.'350  n.u  

BERLIN 
Bush, Gorbachev return to Berlin 
Associated Press 
BERLIN 

Former President Bush, honored Monday for his role in the fall of the Berlin Wall 10 years ago, said them is still much to be dono "to s11cure the values of l'rnedom and prosperity in r.astern Europe." 
Bush met with two other Cold War leadflrs. Helmut Kohl and Mikhail Gorbachev, to celebrate their collaboration in a historic milestone -the opening of the Wall on Nov. 9, 1989, and the ensuing diplomacy that ensurnd German unifica­tion and redrew the map of Europe. 
Bush was awarded hon­orary citiznnship of Berlin in a sentimental ceremony led by Kohl and attendee! by Gorbachev. 
Kohl. the chancellor who ended Germany's East-West division with stunning speed 11 months aft11r the Wall fell. crndit­nd Bush with a good deal ol' Urn momentum of the "incredible" pace of 
policies ultimately brought atives, especially because wariness in Britain and events that swept away 
down communism and of improved living stan­France about quick unifi­the Cold W,ir order. 
paved the way for German dards. cation, expressed pride"You didn't just pay lip 
unification. But only 45 percent that united Germany has service to the goal of over­
Gorbachev briefly joined viewed the new political remained a stable democ­coming the divisioq ·of 
the others on stage. system capitalist racy firmly anchored in Europe andGermany," Looking ahead, Bush democracy -as better Europe. Kohl said in his lributn at 
stressed that the process than the old. Only 27 per­lie commended Bush Berlin's red-brick City 
of uniting Europe is far cent said they felt better for "trusting the Hall. 
from complete. in society and 67 percent Germans," but addud that Addressing Bush as 
That sentiment clearly said unification had U.S.-German relations "dear George." Kohl 
rings true for many in worsened the next gener­have to be kept alive as declared: "You didn't hesi­
Germany's formerly com­ation's chances. memories f'ade of' tate. Rather. you put 
munist east, still blighted The poll of 1,000 east­American protection for yourself at the forefront of with high unemployment ern Germans was pub­West Germany during the those who encouraged us 
and struggling to adapt to lished in the Berliner Cold War. on the way to unity." 
life in a western-dominat­Zeitung newspaper. No llis remarks camu at a Both former leaders 
ed nation. margin of error was sensitive time in U.S.­honored the third -and A poll published Monday given. German relations, which perhaps most important ­
found most eastern But Monday's events are in flux with a new player in the drama, for­Germans -70 percent -emphasized more lofty generation in power in mer Soviet leader 
say the advantages of uni­themes. Kohl, whose deft Germany, and Berlin Gorbachev, whose reform-fication outweigh the neg-diplomacy overcame once again its capital. 

Schools close for Rev. Jackson's Visit 
shortly after 5 p.m. and said the pie fistfight; the school board presi­A"ociated Pres• talks had ended for the day with no dentcontends it was a "mob action" DECATUH.111. 
progress_ Gov. George Ryan, who that endangerml hundreds. The H.cv. Jesse .Jackson led about was acting as a mediator. offered "A fist light is different from a knifn several suggestions for alternative fight is different from a gun fight is
100 prnteslers lo the steps of a high school Monday to demand the rein­
education for the students but di!Terent from a rape is difTernnt from statement of seven black students Jackson didn't say say what they a drug bust," Jackson said f'ollowing who were expellnd for two years for wore. the Monday meeting. "Wo urge the 
The district scheduled an emer­school district to put forth a punish­
fighting at a f'ootball game. Eisenhower lligh and Dncatur's 
gency s.chool board meeting for 7 mnnt that leads to rnmndy and nol two other public high schools wero p.m. lo discuss "student discipline, rnjflction." closed Monday to avoid a conf'ronla­thrcatrned litigation c1nd student The only black sd10ol board mnm­
sal'ety," according to an agenda for bcJr who voted cast the lone vote
Uon. Jackson said the issue is not a 
tho meeting. against oxpulsion. Tlrnrn am five qLwstion of racism but whether the 
Jackson said ii" no nisolution white school board mcrnlrnrs and two students wern trnatnd fairly. !lo 
camo f'rom that mooting, he would black mnmbnrs. Thn district is (iO return to school with tho students porcent whito and ]') pnrcPnt black . 
accusnd the sdwol board of' ovm·­on Tuesday. Jackson has dnma11dnd tlw studnnts
stt1pping its authnrily by expelling studnnts who hadn'f bnon chargHd The t11ens worn expelled after be rninslatnd, l11adi11g thousands of' 
with anv crimn. 
righting at a Sept. I 7 game b(~twerm residents on a man:h through MacArthur and Eisenhower high lkcatur's strents Sunday and thrtiat­
Jacks°'on spent t.lw day meeting schools. Jackson said it was a sim-ening to suo the school syswm.
with school ol'ficials but emerged 
~------­

Tuesday, November 9, 1999
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
page 6 
Come to Me all you who labor and are heavily burdened, And I will give you rest ... 

I make a holy hour each day in the presence ofJesus in the Blessed Sacrament. All my sisters ofthe Missionaries ofCharity make a daily holy hour as well, because we find that through our daily holy hour our love for Jesus becomes more intimate, our love for each other more under­standing, and our love for the poor more compassion-a( e... " 
-Mother Teresa 
Jesus is here with us in the Eucharist to give us answers-answers that will lead us to truth, happiness and peace. In this culture of death, it is easy for people to become weary and indifferent to God and His gift of life. People often fall short of their obligation to care for and nurture the spiritual and physical lives of themselves and others. Eucharistic Adoration gives a person the opportunity to nurture his own spiritual life, as well as the spiritual lives of others (through prayer for them.) Prayer also protects the physical lives of those endangered by abortion, euthanasia and other forms of violence. This is because, it is only through the grace which comes from prayer that other's hearts can be changed from seeking death to loving life. Christ gives us the strength to press on in our battle for life. In order to be Christ-like in our service to preserve life, we must be filled with His life through prayer. To be Christian, we must follow Christ. If He is not the source of all we do, it is worth nothing. We ask you to join us in prayer for life ... 
What is Eucharistic Adoration? 

God is present to us in many ways in our world, but He is especially present to us in the Eucharist. As Roman Catholics, we believe that Jesus Christ, who lived 2000 years ago, is truly present in the Eucharist. In Eucharistic Adoration, the Host is placed in a monstrance, in order for us to be able to come and pray. Jesus is always hidden in the tabernacle, but in adoration he is exposed so that we can come and kneel before Him, face to face, and speak with our God. When Jesus is exposed like this, He can never be left alone. Thus, people sign up to be responsi­ble to some and pray with Him for a certain amount of time (usually l hour) every week. 
Why should I go? 

If Jesus were to come to the JACC, would you come and stand in line for ours just to talk to Him for a minute? Even if you weren't Christian, wouldn't you be at least interested in this God so may people talk about? Well, Jesus is truly, physi­cally present here on campus-in the Eucharist. IN ADORATION YOU HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY TO GO AND SPEAK WITH YOUR GOD FACE TO FACE. You confide in Him, plead with Him, question Him. And if you sit quietly enough, he will inspire you with answers. 
What do I do when I am there? 

When you enter the chapel, you should genuflect as a sign of reverence to Jesus. It is common practice during Adoration to genuflect on two knees, instead of just one (like you do whenever you enter a chapel.) You can stand, sit, or kneel-whatever position you pray best in. And then you pray. There are many ways to pray: you can do spiritual reading; you can pray a rosary; you can sit in silence; you can even just talk to Jesus-like you would to a friend. The most important thing is that you love Him and allow Him to love and strengthen you. 
What does the Church think? 

"Exposition of the Blessed Sacrament, whether in a pyx or a monstrance, is a recognition of the wondrous Presence of Christ in the sacrament and stimulates us to unite ourselves to Hirn in a spiritual communion. It is, accordingly, eminently in harmony with the worship which we owe Him in spirit and truth ... " 
-Post-Conciliar (Vatican II) Document, S.C.D.W. 
Sponsored by Notre Dame Right to Life AMDG JMJ 
EUCHARISTIC ADORATION ON-CA1\1PUS: 
Friday: Lady Chapel in the Basilica: 12:00pm (following 11 :30 Mass) -5:00pm with a Rosary beginning at 4:15. (Ends with Benediction at 4:45) Monday beginning at 11 :30pm (following 11 :OOpm Mass) through Tuesday at 10:00pm (Ending with Benediction at 9:45-10:00) In Fisher Hall Chapel. 
Tuesday, November 9, I 999 The Observer . NEWS 
UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN 
Sides prepare for High Court 
U-Wire 
WASIIINGTON 

Onn half hour. 
That's how much time Srott Southworth will havP lo con­vince at lnast fivn of tlrn nine 
U.S. Supremr Court justices that segrogated fons violate his First AnH\1Hlm1ml rights by rn1111wlling' him to l'und slu­dPnt groups he ideologically opposns. 
i\ncl that's Lhn samP amount ol' Limn Susan Ullman. Wisconsin assistant atlorney gB1wral. has to persuade a majority of justicf's that spgre­gal1\d foes am a constitutional, 11ncussary and integral part of tlw University of' Wisconsin Systmn. 
Aftnr two lownr court rul­ings and almost four years of litigation, tho Southworth case will rnmn down to one hour of arguments this Tuesday. The merits of the arguments lwfor!' tlrn SuprnmP Court will d,1tnrmine the !'ate of segre­gated fews, not onlv at UW­Madison. but at putlic univr.r­siti,1s across llwnation. 
History and Analysis 
Southworth. along with the original plaintiffs. former UW law studcmts /\my Schoepke, Kc!ith Bannach, Hebr.cca Bretz and Hcbncka Vander Werf'. sued the Board or Hcgents in April 19%. 
Tlwy dainrnd that by rnquir­ing mandatory student recs to l'und private ()rganizations that engage in political and idnological advocacy, activities and speech, the Hegnnts vio­lated the Pirst J\m,mdmcnt. The funding, which was assessml at $165.75 per stu­dnnt in the academic year the case was n1<1d, was mandatory .in the sense that students can­not graduate or receive their grades if they do not pay. 
The plaintiffs argued that mandatory funding vi()lates the rights or freedom of speech and association, the fren exercise clause of thecon­!-i litution and the Religious Frr.cdom lfostora.tion Act. 
District Judgo John Shabaz, the juuge for the U.S. District Court for the Western District ol' Wisconsin, ruled in favor of Southworth on free speech and association, but not on the free exercise clause and Religious Preedom Restoration Act. 
The Regents appealed the case to the 7th Circuit Court of Appeal~. The three-judge panel upheld the lower court's decision on Aug. 10, 1998. The ruling said the constitu­tionality of the mandatory fundi11g is in question. 
"The Supreme Court has yet to determine whether these First J\mcndment corollaries protect objecting students from being forced by state universities to subsidize pri­vate political and ideological organizations," the decision slated. 
The Hegents then appealed to the full circuit court, which also ruled in favor of Southworth on Oct. 27, 1998. 
Finally, the Regents took the case to the Supreme Court. 
The Supreme Court's deci­sion to hear the case was con­nected to several related court rulings -includinga case at the University of Virginia and two other First Amendment rulings: Keller v. State Bar of Californiaand Abood v. Detroit Board of Education. 
UW journalism and mass 
communication professor Robert Drechsel said Supreme Court decision. which are tra­ditionally guided by past precedents, will likely rely heavily on such cases. 
"IThe Supreme Court! are always looking for analogies, guidance from the past," he said. 
In Hosenberger v. Rector and Visitors of the Cniversity of Virginia, a student group was deniPd funding by the university 1.o publish a Christian newspaper. The uni­versity contended that the reli­gious viewpoint of the news­paper was basis for denial. 
However, the Supreme Court ruled that because the fund was established by student activity fees, the money had to be available on a viewpoint­neutral basis. Because the university denied the newspa­per funding, it had violated the First Amendment. 
Drechsel said the ruling in the Rosenberger decision is being used by UW to argue its case. Much of Ullman's argu­ment, he said, will be based on the role of the university in providing a student discourse. 
"The university is looking at the Rosenberger [decision] and saying that the university is funding a forum and that's different than funding individ­ual speakers," he said. 
In the Abood and Keller cases, the Supreme Court ruled that requiring dues from a dissent individual to pay for ideological activities is uncon­stitutional if the funded activi­ties fall outside the goals of the organization. 
However, as Drechsel points out, neither the Abood nor Keller cases deal with higher education. · 
Meet The Sociology Major Wednesday, November 11, 1999 7th floor Flanner Hall 4:00 -5:30 PM 
Every few years, professional academics evaluate university programs. Recently, representatives of Harvard, Michigan, and Boston University rated Notre Dame's Undergraduate Sociology Program as "truly out­standing". We invite students aiming, to be "outstanding" to join us as first or second majors. 
Some of our most prestigious faculty are offering a variety of interest­ing and substantive courses at the undergraduate level. Check our web site or come into the office. Peruse our courses on Gender, Crime, Family, Schools, Organizations, Ethnicity, Race, Public Policy, Religion, Migration, Culture, International Affairs, Medicine, Latin America, and Technology. 
Several courses are cross-listed with Anthropology, The Hesburgh Program, Gender Studies, Computer Applications, American Studies, 
African-American Studies, Economics, Government, The Peace 
Institute, Romance Languages and Literature. 
Please visit our website: http://www.nd.edu/~soc/ 
Sociology Department: 810 Flanner Hall 631-0803 or 631-6463 
page 7 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 

Members discuss academics in dorms 
manner in which t.lrn officn ofBy FINN PRESSLY 
student affairs addressed the 
Assistant News Editor 
ban on the Women's H.esourco 
Center. 

Responding to a question "They handled that issue as if posed by the ad hoc subcommit­it were an issue before a parishtP.e on student life, tlrn Campus priest in a parish high school -Llfe Council debated the role of not a university," he said. "The academics in the residence 
Office of Student Affairs in mat­halls. ters having to do with student "I don't think academics often organizations assumes itself the 
gets the attention it deserves in power of de.termining what 
the dorms," said off-campus does and does not contravene senator Pat Foy. "I would like to the teachings of the Catholic cnrnte a more Church." intellectual 
"That sort of

"I would like to create
atmosphere in presumption[the] residence a more intellectual has to be chal­halls." atmosphere in [the] len gn d," he 
Keough Hall added.
residence halls." 
senator Brian 
Dean Ava 

O'Donoghue Preacher sec­referred to the Pat Foy onded Manicr's Hall Fellows 
concerns.

off-campus senator 
program, which 
once brought faculty members to the resi­dence halls as residents. 
Other members disagreed, expressing a reluctance to mix the classroom and the dormito­
ry. . "I think a lot of students would want to separate resi­dence and academic life," said Brian Rigney. He suggested instead that professors try hold­ing office hours in LaFortune or host class dinners, both of which have been successfully implemented at Notre Dame. Fr. David Scheidler, rector of St. Edward's Hall, echoed simi­lar sentiments. "The residence halls are our students' homes ... I hope we don't get away ·from that," he said, comparing a student returning from class to a work­er returning home. "They need a place to get away from all that." 
In other CLC news 
. Faculty representative Edward Manier decried the 
"I think 
reserving tho right to student affairs to detnr­m i ne what contravenes the moral teaching of the Catholic Church !isl an awfully large burden," she said. 
Bill Kirk, assistant vice-presi­dent for residence life, stressed that while student organizations are prohibited from "encourage or participate in any activity that contravenes the moral teachings of tho Catholic Church," that does not affect individual liberties. 
"[This] no way impinges upon ... the student's ability to speak as an individual," he said. 
. The council prepared ques­tions for vice president of stu­dent affairs Fr. Mark Poorman who will visit the November 22 meeting to deliver a "state of student affairs" address. 
Student body president Micah Murphy explained the reasons for the upcoming meeting. 
"It's to see what in fact they're doing [and] lo see if' there's something they want us 

to explore," he said. 
''It's a Wonderful Life'' 
Stage adaptation ofa classic holidayfavorite. 

Sunday, 
November21 at 7:30 p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium 
For ticket infonnation contact 2 8 4 4 6 2 6 
the Saint Mary's College Box Office ­
Visit Tl.e OLser~er online: http://oLser~er.nd.edu 

page 8 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, November 9, 1999 
ulati.ons about traveling to East Matos, one of the only American "[Before the fall! we lived in a than the eye could see. Germany including specific students in an all-German class­beautiful three story, seven bed­"You didn't feel that it was
GerIDany 
directions and an initiation pro­room, realized his value immedi­room, three bathroom house backwards, old, or dirty.'' she gram. ately follm.ving his nilocation. with a huge hill perfect for sled­said. "I went there looking for
continued from page 1 
"We only had a certain "I remember that the class ding," she said. "When they differences. It's still a whole existed since before the fall of amount of time to travel [from was so excited to have drove up the prices, we had to other culture, you can still feel the Berlin wall still exist today -the West to the East]," Hazell Americans in their class," Matos leave." East Berlin. But it's progres­and threaten the formation of a said. "We couldn't stop for gas, said. "Even among the sixth It was a drastic transition. The sive." national identity. and thPy timed us. We couldn't graders, there was a general family was forced to move to But while East Germany chas­
get lost, because we would get in sense that they felt [the destruc­base -housing, a significant es to catch up with the living trouble. Being in that car was tion of the wall] would make reduction in living space. standards of the West, unem­
Before the Fall 
incrediblv tense." them more like America," he "It was a three bedroom, one ployment and crirrrn continue to
Kellie Hazell remembers col­
Upon her arrival in the East, said. "The East-West division floor apartment with one bath­rise, alerting both lhe East and ors. Hazell immediatPlv saw the ma!ie them unlike America. The room for four people," remem­the Wost that tensions still exist.
Driving to East Berlin from her inequalities that divided the destruction made them closer to berd Hazell. "And our only view Recent polls conducted byhomeland in llheinland-Pfalv nation just as the wall did. being completely free." was ... trees. Trees and the German media have even said near the French Border, Hazell, "I noticPd immediately that Hazell rememb1ws the impor­apartment building next door." that there are some that feel the a Notre Dame senior and nine­East Berlin just wasn't caught tance placed on America even in Wall should be reconstructed. 
year resident of Germany, 
up to the times," she said. play groups she participated in "There is a great feeling or
remembers rolling greenland Rebuilding
as a younger child. nationalism ... not stereotypes,
and lush scenery that character­Riding a bus past the newly
"The German children were so but feelings both s.ides need to
ized the beauty of the Wost. It Tumbling Down opened border, Matos had the
excited about showing off their let go to be one unified country,"
was the only view of Germany It was the impressions of East sense that he was witnessing
English," she said. "All I knew Hazell said. "There is a feeling of
she had evM known. Berlin that staved with Hazell as something all over again.
how to say was, 'My name is resentment because East
"It was green even a half an the events leading up to the "We drove by the remnants of
Kellie.' But they could explain Germany -wanting the tech­
hour from reaching the East destruction of the Berlin Wall lhe wall .., one side was filled
the German version of hide and nology, groceries. and clothes
Berlin border," Hazell said. unfolded in Nowimbcr of 1989. with graffiti, another was bare
seek to us in perfect English. that the West had -had to sub­
"Germany is beautiful. I wasn't "The week leading up to the except for a few bullet holes.
They were so excitPd to have us mit to the role of inferior. And
expecting {East Herlin] to be that fall, we had heard on the mili­You felt like you were coming
there," she said. they didn't like ihai." 
different." tary base that travel was going into a place where something
But meanwhile, the most Furthermore, a lack of accep­
But waiting in Ii.11e to cross the to be highly unrestricted to East big had happened, but at that
immediate euphoria of the tance of Eastern culture by the
concrete border. the green Germany," she said. "The bor­point, it was _just a memory.''
reunion was fading, and the eco­West aggravates that tension,
began to fade and the impres­dPrs had begun to fall, and we And for a newly united coun­
nomic implications of the union she said. 
sions of a Germany much differ­knew that the East German bor­try, Matos observed immediate
began to take hold. _ "The East wants to hold ontoent than the one she called der may have been one of the inequality.
One of the immediate implica­what they grew from, and the
home began to emerge. next ones to fall." "The buildings were darker,
tions was in housing, Hazell West wants to stay the way they 
"I remember yellows and On Nov. 9, 1989, she awoke to covered with soot ... the area
said. were," she said. "They're butting 
browns ... everything was a newscast proclaiming that was poor," he said. "You knew it 
"The East Germans began to heads."
dead," Hazell said. "The green very event occurred. was a significant difference." 
flood West Germany before East "Economically, Germany is 
was gone, and even thP. build­"There was so much excite­Returning to Berlin in 1996,
Germany was under the new wondering if they are one peo­
ings were this faded yellow. It ment," she said. "The summer Hazell did not have the sense of
system of government," she said. ple," said Saint Mary's political 
was like nothing was alive." before, there was an air of death and depression that had
But rent laws that forbade the science professor Mark
But even the journey to East excitement on the base that we plagued the city before the fall. 
eviction of East German resi­Belanger. "That created fissures
Germany marked a transition to had won the Cold War . . . that She had the sense of a new
dents caused German landlords in people's sense of identity.'' 
a culture very different from the families would be reunited. This beginning.
to drive up their prices -to the And it is the identity that may
freedom that she enjoyed as a just seemed like the conclusion." Riding the newly constructed
point where even West German be the root of the tension, Hazell
West German resident. It was a conclusion that many railroad from West to East
residents could no longer afford said.
Before the trip, her father, a German citizens saw as a device Berlin, the first thing she noticed 
them. "How can vou relate to a coun­
military officer, had to sit that likened them to America, were building cranes -20 or 30
One of those residents was try that is ·not sure where it
through a seminar detailing reg-Hazell and Matos would observe. cranes that stretched farther
Hazell. wants to go?" she asked. 

CORRECTION 
. In \fonday's issue of The Observer, Rita Donley was misquot­ed saying, "We've confronted· campus ministry about gay and les­bian issues." It shoud have read, "We've consulted with Campus Ministry about gay and lesbian issues." 

INTERESTED IN SCIENCl TECHNOlOGY, AND ETHICAl QUESTIONS? Moral issues surrounding technolouv assessment, 
bioethics, human genetics, environmental management 
computerizaUon, and architectural design confront us 
evervdav. 
To exulore these problems in dePlh, invesuuate the unique Notre Dame STV Program. This is aminor requiring 15 hours of course credits that can be taken bV students in anv college. Within the STV Program vou mav develop con­centrations In snecUic traeks emphaslZlnu STV interac­Uons with Business: Environmental Studies; Pre-profes­sional Studies: PhllOSOPhV and Th00I0UV; Computerization and Physical Sciences; and Government and Public Policv. 
Course offerings tor Suring 2000 may be reviewed bv infor­mation obtained at 346 0'Shaughnessv, or visil our website at http://www.nd.edu/~stv. Call 631-5015 for apersonal appointment. 


Domino's Pizza Delivery to NDISMC/HC 
271-0300 
EARLY WEEK SPECIAL! 
Every Monday, Tuesday, & Wednesday 
The weekend isn't too far away ... 
r---~---------------, 
1 2 Large Pizzas w/ Cheese 1 
' sa~ ' 
: $1 Per Topping l I Add Breadsticks for $1 I 
I Good every Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday I I Visa/Mastercard/Discover and Checks Welcome! I
L ___________________ J 

Tuesday, November 9, 1999 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
U.S. negotiators eye
Clinton urges active foreign policy 
Chinese trade deal 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 

Prnsidcnt Clinton. cnlebraling the fall of' the Berlin Wall a decade ago, said Monday that l!epublicans are out of stiip wilh most i\mnricans who want th11 Unitrd Statns to kerp a major role in world affairs rathnr than take a "go it alone" approach. 
"Most of all." the president said. "we need to maintain the will to lead. to providn lhfl kind or American luadcrship that for 50 years has brought friends and allies to Oll r siclns wh ilc moving mountains around thH world." 
Clinton's rnmarks, in a spnech at G£wrgntown University, sharpened a fornign policy ddrnte roiled by the Senatr's rnjection of a land­mark nucl«mr test-ban treaty. Tl1P Hnpublican-engineered d11foat was a major rmbarrass­nwnt for Clinton and highlight­od policy disputos about Al"rican debt rnlief. payrmmt of' $1.8 billion in late duns to tlrn Unitnd Nations and money to dismantle Hussia's nuclear ars(mal. 
The president's speech coin­cided with Tuesday's annivur­sary of thn fall of the Berlin Wall, the East-Wost barrier of barbed wire and cinder blocks guarded by machine guns, a 11oodlit mine field and German shephurd guard dogs. Clinton appnarcd on stage with Czech Prime Minister Milos Zeman and Slovak Hepublic Prime Minister Mikulas Dzurinda, who expressed appreciation for the Unitnd States' role in free­ing Eastern Europe from the grip of' comm 1111ism. 
"Thank you, Amnrica," 
Zeman said in heavily accented Looking ahead. Clinton said Engiish. the United States and its allies 
Clinton credited his prede­face three principal challenges cessors -Hcpublicans and abroad and one at home. l)emocrats alike -for meeting The first. he said. is "the 
Associated Press the challenge and embraced challenge of building the right tho once controversial verbal kind of partnership with attack of Ronald Reagan Russia." 
WASHINGTON against the Kremlin. Russia that is stable. democ­
President Clinton dispatched "It took conviction -the con• ratic and cooperatively 
a high-level negotiating team viction of President Heagan, engaged with the West. 
to Beijing on Monday for one who said so Russia's 
m o r e attempt

plainly what transforma­to strike
many people "Most ofall. we need to tion has just on the other begun. It is 
a major

maintain the will to lead, 
market­

side of the incomplete, 
opening t r a d e 

wall had to provide the kind of it is awk­
trouble American leadership that w a r d . 
agree­

understand­Sometimes it
has for 50 years has 
ment that

ing, that the is not pretty. 
Soviet brought friends and "But we 
w o u 1 d clear the

empire was ·allies to our sides ... " have a pro­
way for

evil and the found stake wall should in its suc-:~nn China to become a member of 
President Bill Clinton 
the World Trade Organization. down; the on the celebration of the fall said, be torn cess," Clinton 
Gene Sperling, the presi­dent's chief economic adviser,

conviction of of the Berlin Wall Next, he 


President Carter, who put us on the side of dissi­dents and kept them alive to fight another day." 
Clinton said most Americans share his belief that the United States should continue to use its influence in problems rang­ing from China to Chechnya, promoting peace and prosperi­ty around the world. 
"But some disagree and it appears they are dispropor­tionately represented in the deciding body," the president said in an obvious reference to Hepublicans in Congress. "Some believe that America can and should go it alone, either withdrawing from the world and relying primarily on our military strength, or by seeking to impose our will when things arc happening that don't suit us." 
said, was the 
challenge to 
bring stabili­

ty to the Balkans so that "bitter ethnic problems can no longer be exploited hy dictators and Americans do not have to cross the Atlantic again to fight in another war." In particular, Clinton called for a democratic transition in Serbia from the rule of Slobodan Milosevic, whom the president called "the last living relic of the age of European dictators of the com­munist era." 
Clinton said the third chal­lenge "is perhaps the oldest of them all and in some ways per­haps the hardest -to build a lasting peace in the Aegean Sea region, to achieve a true recon­ciliation between Greece and Turkey, and bridge the gulf between Europe and the Islamic world." 
,-----------------------------------------7 30. 
I · I Rep. David Dreier and chair­
1 man of the House Rules 

I 1 The N anovic Institute for European Studies I 
I I 
/ Presents the Film: I I ======---• 
I I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I I 
I I 

I I Followed by a discussion with the filmmaker, 
I I 
Melissa Hacker 
I 
I I 
I Wednesday, November 10 
I I 
I 7pm ' 
and U.S. Trade Representative Charlene Barshefsky were heading the U.S. delegation, presidential press secretary Joe Lockhart announced at the White House. 
The team -which will include officials from the Treasury, Commerce and State departments -is to arrive on Tuesday for two days of discussions with Chinese officials. 
Clinton said he was hopeful but would not predict the out­come of the talks. "Ambassador Barshefsky and Sperling have gone over there to work on it and we are doing our best," the president told reporters at the White !louse. 
The standing of the officials involved raised expectations in Congress that the administra­tion thought a deal was still achievable in time for China to join the WTO and participate in the launching of a newer round of global trade liberal­ization talks in Seattle on Nov. 
Committee, called the hastily
I 
scheduled trip to Beijing
I 
"spectacular news" that raised : hopes of a breakthrough in 
the talks. Sen. Max Baucus of 
I 
I 
I Montana, the ranking I Democrat on the Senate t 
Finance trade subcommittee, was also encouraged, predict­ing supporters of greater trade with China would be able to gain congressional approval of a trade deal next year. 
Greg Mastel, director of the global economic project at the New America Foundation, a Washington think tank, said a trade deal was "tlrn adminis­tration's most important pri­ority with China right now, given that there are few other signs that the administration's engagement policy is work­ing." 
Clinton was heavi-ly criti­cized for failing to get an agreement last April when Chinese Premier Zhu Hongji visited Washington. Zhu had made a market-opening offer that many U.S. corporations and farm groups viewed as a sizable dismantling of Chinese trade barriers they have long complained about. However, steel and textile industries said the pact did not go far enough. 
The Clinton administration made Zhu's April package public in hopes of building support for a deal in this country, but the move back­fired when it triggered heavy criticism in China from forces 
opposing  Zhu's  economic  
reform efforts.  
Clinton  and  Chinese  

President Jiang Zemin agreed to restart the WTO talks in September, but the two sides so far have been sparring about whether all of China's April offers remained on the table. Chinese negotiators have been seeking to scale some of them back, which the administration considers unacceptable. 
Lockhart refused to specu­late on the chances of success for the new round of talks, saying only that Clinton sent the team because he "thought it was worthwhile to have Charlene travel to China to see if we can make progress." 
Last week, Clinton told reporters he bcliev,id the eco­nomic benefits to American exporters were so important that Congress would pass the legislation needed to end the annual review of China's tarilT rates. 
China enjoys the same rates as other trading partners, but must have them approval annually by Congress in a debate that opponents use to attack China for its rncord on such issues as human rights, Taiwan and allegations ol' nuclear espionage. 

Student & Fae/Staff /Family Tennis Clinic 
Monday, November 15 
I The Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art 
6:00-7: l 5pm 
I 
Eck Tennis Pavilion
' I 
1 Ms. Hacker's documentary is about the Jewish children who were saved 
Stroke Analysis 
l by emigrating to Britain (from Germany, Austria, Poland and 
&

1 Czechoslovakia) 60 years ago. Most of these children never saw their 
Playing Situations 
: parents again, Those brave courageous parents who had the strength to 
Presented by:
1 send their children off to an unknown fate soon boarded transports taking i them to concentration camps. The filmmaker has lifelong intimate 
Men's & Women's Varsity Tennis Teams : knowledge of this story, a~ her mother was one of the children rescued 
Free ofcharge • Open to all Dependants 23 years ofage andyounger No advance registration ne,·essary • Bringyour own Racquet
1 from Vienna by the Kindertransport movement in January 1939. Ms. 
Tennis Shoes Required • No Running Shoes Allowed
l Hacker has worked as an editor for National Geographic Television and I the PBS/BBC American Cinema series. She is a graduate of New York : University Film School and teaches there. 

For more information, please call the RecSports Office at 1-6100I I
'-----------------------------------------~ 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

page 10 BSERVER Tuesday, November 9, 1999 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Michelle Krnpa 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
M. Shannon Ryan  David Rogcro  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  
Laura Perelle  

NEWS EDITOR: Tim Logan VIEWl'OINT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughen SPORTS EDITOR: Brian Kessler 
ScENF EDITOR: Michael Vanegas 
SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie 
PHOTO EDITOR: Kev111 Dalum 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Bryan Lurz 

Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Brer Hudat SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kushto CONTROLLER: Timothy lane 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 

CONTACT Us 
OFFJC£ MANAGER/GENERAL INFO..............631·7471 FAX.............................................................631--6927 ADVERTISING....................................631-6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF ....................................... 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AsST, ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE.. ......................................631·5313 NEWS.......................................................... 631-5323 
observer .obsnews. l@nd.edu VtEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 
observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS...... .................................................631-4543 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu ScENE........ ................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's............................................. 631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu 
PHorn........................................................631-8767 
SYSTEMS/WEB AoMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:llobsuver.ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news. sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-co-the 

movies/music for 
minute forecasts 

weekly srudenr reviews 
online features for,;pe­
advertise for policies 

cial campus coverage 
and rates of prim ads 
archives to search for 

about The Observer 
articles published after 

to meet rhe editors and 
staff
August 1999 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saine Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe admini~tration ofeither institution. The Observer reseives the right co refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of rhe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofrhe authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lettm LS encouraged, l..errecs ro the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Question., regarding Observer po/icie, should be direct• ed to Editor in ChiefMichelk Krupa. 

I hate airplanes. 
It's nothing personal. I just have no confidence in the flight capabilities of a 40-ton piece of metal because most 40­ton pieces of metal do not have such capabilities. Airplanes also have 
Kate Rowland

the disadvantage of 
being run by air­
lines and of flying Read this. 
from airports, nei­
It may save 

ther of which 
your life.

detracts from the 
overall stress of fly­
ing. 
I boarded the first airplane at Chicago O'Hare International Airport, named for a man who gained fame by shooting airplanes violently out of the sky and sending them crashing to the ground in a fiery heap. Shortly after taking off, the captain came on and said, "We're flying straight into a hurri· cane. Hopefully we'll land far enough inland since they don't teach us how to do this in flight school. Don't worry, though; we're pretty sure we can han­dle it. Keep your seat belts fastened just in case." 
We wound up landing in "crash posi­tion" which apparently means "without bothering to put down the landing gear despite torrential rains and 40 mph winds." 
Despite flying into a hurricane and watching lightning strike the runway as we were descending and having to slide down a rain-drenched yellow evacua­tion slide, I enjoyed my stay in North Carolina. I especially enjoyed my trip to Raleigh, the only state capital whose capitol building sports a statue of George Washington carved by a man who had not only never seen George Washington, but who had also never 
·1aid eyes on an actual drawing, picture 
or sketch of him. This fine artist under­
took the work on commission, costing North Carolina something like four times the gross yearly income of the entire state government. I believe, after 200 years, that they are still paying for it. The best part of this whole story is the product of all this money. If you go to Raleigh, you too can see George sit· ting, resplendent, in the middle of the rotunda, clad as a Roman soldier. He's writing the words of his Farewell Address on a clay tablet with a stylus. In Italian. 
In the words of my North Carolina host, "My tax dollars at work." 

Sad as I was to leave North Carolina and its tobacco museums {there are at least four in the Metro Durham area), I had to go to Bethesda, Md., for a med­ical school interview. So I booked a flight to Baltimore-Washington International Airport. I got on a tiny lit­tle airplane with five other passengers and a surly flight attendant. For rea­sons that remain unclear, we stopped at Dulles, the main D.C. airport, on our way to BWI. These airports are ridicu­lously close -it's like flying from South Bend to Elkhart. Then United put us on an airplane so teeny that, when seated in the last row, I asked my neighbor for a six-letter word for "gives help," the captain heard me and hollered "Assist!" from the cockpit. When we descended to land at BWI, I could still see Dulles on the horizon. The whole ordeal took an hour and 15 minutes. 
It takes an hour to make the same trip by taxi, as I found out on the way home. From Bethesda, I took the Metro to Union Station, a train to the BWI area, then a shuttle bus to the airport and finallv tried to check in. The United man informed me that my flight was going to be delayed. He offered to put me on a cab to Dulles to catch a flight from there that would get me bacfto O'Hare before the delayed one would. I accepted his voucher and, along with six other passengers, was put in a taxi driven by a driver that flinched and honked his horn every time someone's cell phone rang. The woman next to me started triggering her phone just to watch him yelp and dance. 
United also gave us vouchers for a drink at the Dulles bar when we finally got there, since we had three hours to kill. The other taxi passengers and I went together. When I asked for a club soda, the bartender looked at me and said, "I need to see your ID." 
I replied, "But I only want a club soda." He said, "You need to be 21 to be in the bar area of the airport." So I got out my driver's license and showed it to him. 
He said, "This says you're under 21." 
"Yes," I said, because it did. It said it in a dozen places in big red letters. "But look here, where my birthday is printed. I've been 21 for awhile. I just haven't gotten a new driver's license." 
He glanced at it and said, 'Tm sorry, you can't be in the bar if you are under 21." 
I whipped out my passport, which I'd brought with me for other reasons, and said, "Look. I'm 21." 
He took my passport, looked at my birthday, did some elaborate mental subtraction, and gave me my club soda. 
In what I considered my small victory over the flight establishment, I told him to bill United full price for it plus a nice tip for him. 
Kate Rowland is a senior. Her column usually appears every other Monday. 
The uiews expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
DILBERT 

... CAN MINE BE 
BASED ON THE 
PERFORMANCE 
OF SOME OTHER 
____...__________, 

SCOTT ADAMS 
YOU ASK ONE QUESTION AND 
SUDDENLY YOU'R.E NOT A TEAr-'\ 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The more I traveled. the more I realized that fear makes strangers ofpeople who should be friends." 
Shirley Maclaine American actress 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

Tuesday, November 9, 1999 BSERVER page 11 
Try something new 
This isn't going to hn your typical Vkwpoint pine<'. Wolcmnn to lhe womlnrf'ul world or random miss that I eall a lifostylt• and thut you will bt\ a part of for lhn 1mxt Francine liw lo 10 min­
Sanna 

utt!S. This all start­Progressir,eI'd last 
S1.udent. 

Thursday. I 
l1llia.ncC' 

was i11noc1mtlv 
checking my 1)· 
mail. wlwn an unfamiliar nanw and 
mcssagP int,\rrnptPd my usual best 
friend forwards and chain lcttt1rs. 
lnstnad or a quick now tnlling me 
lmw grPal I am tlwn granting me 
200 ym1rs of had luck in Llw sanrn 
scroll, something q11it11 u1111s1ml 
stan•d hack at m,~. It. was from 
t\an,n Krnid1H·. last WIH\k's mystery 
man and this w1\Pk's fl-mail buddv. 
IIn was asking me, and livo others, 
to volunt1mr lo writ11 a l'SA 
(Progrt!ssive Student Alliance) arti­
dn for Viewpoint. First rnaction: 
Captivn audiencn. Sncoml reaction: 
Whal is the PSt\? 
Fortunately, or unl'ortunatdy II gunss that's up to nvnryonn reading this). the first reaction caused me to immndiatPly f1-mail back that I would write the article beforn the second rnartion ever occurred. Upon a later discovery, it was uncovered that my namP. had be(m mistakenly addml to the e-mail list. Ynt my prompt n!sponsn and hid­clt'n id1mlily grantPd me this glori­ous rnomPnt of f'amo -or failure. i\aron is probably frnaking out right now. 
So, who am I'! Francine Sanna, s,111ior graphic design m,~jor and li1rnwr nwry ollwr major. Except for 1.lw occasional pontry rnacling or arl lnclurn. my atlnndancn at stu­dm1t-run orgirnizations has been rar excPedPrl by my aw~ndancn at Corby's Irish Pub. My ObsPrver rPaclings arn sporadic and usually liirnsed around tlrn crnssword puz­zl,• and horoscopns. But occasional­ly, wlinn I'm not having a live-star day, or I can't lih'lll'P out a seven­l1•tlnr word for a Frnnch rl'voluLion­ary cry, my PYI! wandnrs to tho Vinwpoint page in hopns that this linrn sonrnonr will havn something dilfon•nt lo say. 
Somrlhing difl'tffPllt Own those sanw fow topics that snPrn to bn gelling nowlwrn in discussion or tldmt1•. Maylw lhn tnrm nowlrnrn is just my opinion, but that is all that this, or any or those\ 1wer am. Maylw my· uninvolvml reality dis­qualiliiis me from saying any of what I'm about tu say. i.nt's just say this isn't thn first tinw l'vn ewer optinPd my mouth and givm1 it frne rt>ign to rliscuss why things likn communism would 11PV1\r work. 
Okay, lwre it is. l lwlinvn that a prng11a11t woman has tlw right to tPrminalt' lwr prPgnancy. Angry? Wt•II. thn11 y0t1 and I disagree. I'm okay with that, and I think that. you should he too. What a woman chooses to do to lwr hotly dons not dirPrtly nlfort you and yin11· political body, like ii will lwr physical one. You am not going to dmng1\ my mind on this, hut if you rcally fool tlw 1w1:d to cnlighlt)ll nw, lirw. Talk to mP ahout iL lntdlig:nntly Int me know why you disagrne. Maybn it will impact my idoals -most likely it will not. llul do not fo1T1~ your opi11i11ns on mn malir.iously. Do nol y,ill and scrnam and say things that turn public opini1111 forums, like the lcltl)r to Llw t>ditor section, into an on){oi11g: display of hato mail l 'm sure you WIiing mo how ignorant I am is rN1lly going to make me adopt your moral system. Bolievn 
that, and I have a piece of property 
in Florida lo sell you. 
As for gay rights. they should have 11mm. Why'? Because entering a private institution doesn't mean you sign away lhe rights givf.'11 tn you by lhc country in which that inslitution rnsides. Notre Dame exists within i\merir.a; America doos not exist within Notrn Dame. Yfls, I undHrstand that I didn't have to go to school here. Yes, I under­stand that by going here I agnwd to follow thn rules and rflgulations of that almighty handbook, du Lac. I also understand thal aflnr two trips to Ifosidence l.il'c, I've only learned how lo bettt-ir cover my tracks. I understand that I'm cashing in on a groat mlurntion by letting you believe tlmt I've bought into the Notre Dame family, just as you let me believe I'm more important to you than my 25 grand. What kind of ideal family oppresses its children'! 
Sweatshops. I really don't think I have anything to say here. They are terribly wrong institulions of human injustice. And if you believe that they are in anyway a benefit to anything, then you've already stopped reading this article. Or, maybe you haven't stopped reading. Maybe you are pen-in-hand, already scribbling away as to why I am the worst personality ever to reach the printed page. Or, maybe you are doing what I used to do, laughing, folding up the paper and doing the other 12 things that were supposed to be done yesterday. Regardlnss of what this article has made you think or feel, go away with this one little piece of advice. 
Try something new. 
Because of an e-mail mistake, I realized there was a part ol'college that I may be missing out on. Did you know that last year the organi­zation OUTreachND fasted for three days to make a point? I didn't. When was the last time you really thought about what was rnally important'? Not your six-page phi­losophy paper that turned you into a !wad casn. Not that boy or girl that you kissed last weekend and didn't call you back. Wh.at would you do ii' your university told you repeatedly that you could not be who you really were? I had read about these issues, thought about llum1 for live minutes and then went to l.aFortum, and got a Diet CokP. But thon. someone, although by mistake. asked me to really think about what was going on around nm. I was forcnd out of my own lit­tle bubble and made to look around. /\II I can say is, I'm sorry it look mn snvon semesters to get to this point. 
So, do mti one littln favor next time you'rr checking your n-mail or getting lost on the Internet. Check out tlw !'SA wPb pngt' and swi what you think. Mayb(~ you will. maybe you won·1.. Maybe you ·11 poke run at a group or p(1ople that is different than you am. Or, maybe you'll real­izn there is som1•thing going on hem that is µrotly damn imporlanL. 
Aaron, thanks for sending the wrong pPrson an <'-mail. You opnncd my r.ycs to a part of' Notrn Damn that I forgot to look at. 
Francine. Sanna is a senior graph­ic dt:sign major. The Progressive :-.;wdcnl i1lliance column runs everlJ other Tuesday. 
The l'iews expressed in this col­umn are lhose ofthe author and are not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Remember the score in 2001 
For the classes of 2002 and 2003: Cut this uut and save it. Put it in an envelope marked "November 2, 2001." On November 2. 2001, open the envelope and read it again. The next day, go watch Notre Damt1 play Tennessee. 
You will havfl a rnsponsihility over the next two years to educate the classes of 2004 and 2005 about what hap­pened last.Saturday and what they need to do on November 3, 2001. They need to know how important the game is and how important the message is that needs to be sent that dav. 
You don't have any responsibility for the football team -that belongs to a group of gentlemen that are paid to be there and prepare the football team. They will be the ones charged with beating a team who ran the score up to sweeten their ranking. 
Your responsibility will be to send another message -off the field. 
I'm not sure who of you went to the game in Knoxville. If you didn't, find some­one who did and ask them what it was like after the game in that city. I've seen hostile environments. My class went to Columbus, Oh. for the great tear gassing of 1995 and an upset win in Ann Arbor in 1993. They were nothing compared to Knoxville. 
One of my friends described the scene as 

"a pack of animals." Another as "the most classll1ss, disgusting group of peopl1!" she'd ever seen. My school. !'amily and rnligion wern all verbally abused. We were threat­ened with physical abusn and an empty bottle of b11er that just rnissnd my head on a side street. Cars slowed down so passen­gers could yell and throw trash. 
In two years, when the game is over and thn last chord of' tlw victory march resonates through Notre Dame sta­dimn, the students will 
~ 
have their <lay. Each llti.L of you, when you'rn 'fµt out celebrating, 
_ should go and
/1
[/11,ft'. ~.uickly !ind ,a

f} Iennessee Ian (trust me, they'll b11 there). Walk up to them, look them 
in the eye, extend your right ha11d and 
L/ ~l/i IYfll H:aJ; :c~:1ii;t;e.
V(/}M L \ rp 
home." Then go, find

/fgi your friends and do what we do best -celebrate who we are, where we are fortunate 
enough to go to school and the tradi­tion our school is founded on. 
On November 3, 2001, a message will be sent. Our football team will tell Tennessee: "Today, we're better than you." Our stu­dent body will say: "Every day, we're bet­ter than you." 
Ken Chardos Class of'96 November 7, 1999 
Pro-choice feminism is 
•

oppressing women 
Many people in the modern world believe that being a feminist and being pro-choice arc synonymous. 
To be a feminist, it seems, crucially rests on one's enjoyment of "reproductive free­dom" and one's "right to decide what l do \.\'ith 
Erin 
my body." The radical Rockenhaus feminisl'i view those who am "anti-choice" as 
Right to
having their minds trag­
L~fe
ically imprisoned by the patriarchy. 
llowever, when one examinns the claims of modern feminism and their view of womanhood, a startling reality emerges -pro-abortion feminism is oppressing womcm. 
Underlying the propaganda of this hrand of feminism lies an often-unstated assumption -thn idea that women need abortion in order lo attain equality with men. What this is really implying is that the design of a woman's body and her reprodur.tive ability must be "corrected" in order for her to "com­pete with men." She has to conspire to kill another in order for her to succfled and/or prosper according to tlrn standards histori­cally set by men. 
In othnr words. historir.ally, men have val­ued wealth, power and prestige, and the fem­inist movement has appropriated these val­ues instead of lcminizing the value structure. Bncause of this, a woman must artificially "correct" her body so that it imitates a man's body. Thn subtle message is that her body is not good enough in its design! Wait a minute. I thought I was essentially equal to a man. Why do I have to invade and manipulate my body in order to be equal? 
Even more, this ''correction" is violent. Therefore. a woman must do violence to her body (and another's!) to "succend." This arti­

ficial, violent invasion to "correct the prob­
lem" injures her both psychologically and 
physically. Moreovnr, the rnality of this vio­
lence penetrates her mind for yoars. 
Society, with the urging of radical femi­nists, has abandoned women. lnstPad of doing what is hard by holding the fathers and the society that abandoned tho mother accountable, we forcfl her in both subtle and direct ways to kill her child. This is not uplift­ing women. Indeed, abortion shrugs off responsibility to the mother and child. 
Some pro-choice advocates call abortion a "tragedy" and want to it to Iw "rarn" (Planned Parenthood Fnderation motto). II' abortion is a fundamental human right (according to the National Organization lbr Women), then why is it a tragt~dy'? It is cithnr a positive good or a nngativn evil -not both. The cold, hard truth is that no woman wants an abortion. Socio-economic pnissurns, social stigmas and men force them into it. Modern fominism does nothing about tlrn lirst causn, exacerbates the second ("Oh, you'n1 onn of' those 'stay-at-home' motlwrs ...") and plays right into tlw hands of tlw third. 
True fmninism would uplil't and promol11 every aspect of womanhood, nspncially moth­erhood. In a truly fnminist. world, mot.hors would hold the highest places. in socidy and be honored along with doctors, lawynrs and businesspeople. Such a socinty would pro­moto and defend women as they fulfill thnir vocation as the givers and guardians of lifn. 
Brin llockenhaus is a sophomore !\LP!'/ philosophy major. The flight to U.fe column appears every other Tuesday. 
The 1,iews expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE page 12 BSERVER Tuesday, November 9, 1999 

Remembering Armenia 
It's hard to imagine the complete destruction of a homeland and the creation of a "new" one in its place in a matter of just a few years. 
Anyone who visits today's eastern Turkey, known as Armenia before 1915, will notice something very mysterious about the land 
they see. The tragedy that befell the native Armenians 85 years ago, which the Turkish government hoped would remain unknown to the world, still haunts the region. This vast territory is dotted by virtually hundreds of ruins, barns, stables and mosques that were once Armenian churches or monasteries. 
Ruins of ancient Armenian cities, cemeter­ies and fortresses, once part of a thriving 
Harout Semerdjian 
Daily Bruin 
Armenian homeland, are left in deplorable condition and are often destroyed intentionally to eradicate any trace of pre-existing Armenian culture on those lands. Most Turkish travel and history books deliberately describe the handful of Armenian historical landmarks that still remain as "Aramaic," "Hittite" or from some other no-longer-existent people. 
And as for the inhabitants of the lands? Well, you see, as Turkish nationalism reached its peak in the early 20th century, non-Turks -mainly Armenians, Greeks and Jews -were given no place in the country. 
According to the book, "The Dark Fold of the Turkish Revolution" by Rifat Mevlanzade, the executive secretary of the Young Turk Central Board once announced, "Let the non-Turkish elements be completely destroyed, no matter what their nationali­ty and religion are ... Pitiful will be our part, if a total liquidation, a total extermination, is not consummated." 
These words did indeed become a reality when among the old­est inhabitants of Anatolia, the Armenians and the Greeks, were subject to one of history's most successful acts of ethnic cleansing and genocide. 
Even though eastern Turkey is emptied ofits native Armenian population and western Turkey of its Greek inhabitants, the Turkish government today vigorously and ruthlessly denies that a genocide ever took place. 
Unfortunately, some scholars in the field of Middle Eastern Studies, many of whom rely on Turkish grants for research, travel and awards -UCLA professors being no exception -remain silent regarding this immense tragedy or side with the Turkish government in its shameless denial. 
Today. almost all the Armenians scattered around world as a result of the genocide trace their roots to their historical home­land of western Armenia. 
Over the past three years, UCLA's own Richard Hovannisian, Armenian Education Foundation chair in modem Armenian histo­ry, has organized a series of international conferences on the his­toric Armenian cities and provinces that arc currently in Turkey. 
While those regions are empty of Armenians and retain only a small number of surviving Armenian arr.hitectural monuments, historians from around the world have a lot to say about them. 
Fr~m their birth more than 3,000 years ago to their cultural renaissance before the Turkish invasions of a few hundred years ago, to the current political developments around them, these regions are still important areas ofscholarship for many histori­ans. Topics covered include ancient, medieval and modern histo­ry, culture. religion, art, geography, educational and social devel­opments, among other things. 
. I would personally like to thank those who give us the opportu­mty to celebrate the ancient culture of' the Armenians, which no longer exists in its core of western Armenia. 
This column first appeared in the Daily Bruin at UCLA and is reprinted courtesy ofthe U-Wire. The views expressed in this column are tho:;;e ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Obsemer. 
The Fall of the Berlin Wall and the Surprises of History 
1 find it hard to believe that 10 years have gone by since the events now known as "the fall of Lhe Berlin Wall." 
Of course the Wall didn't really fall in November 1989, nor, for that matter, did it come down. Instead, it simply and suddenly 
Doris L. Bergen
stopped being a wall, in the sense of a border and a barrier, and became something quite different; Guest a place to party, the Column source of "hew-it yourselr' souvenirs; a giant. international photo-opportunity -even a dance floor. 
I remember it all very well, because in the fall of 1989, I was living in Berlin (West), fin­ishing up the research for my Ph.D. disserta­tion. I had spent much of September and October commutiug every day from my cheap but trendy neighborhood to an archive in Potsdam, across the border in East Germany. The trip took three hours and four forms of public transportation each way. It included a stop at the border that could take anywhere from 10 minutes to two hours, and involve anything from an order to reveal my right ear and remove my glasses to a full body search. Later I would discover that the archive in Potsdam was only 20 min­utes by car from my flat in Berlin­Schoeneberg. 
But in September and October 1989, it felt worlds away. Sol 
didn't expect to emerge from a long day of research on Nov. 9, 1989, to see the security guards at the archive gath­ered around their radio, weeping. 
"What's 
going on?" I asked. 
"They're dancing on the Wall!" one of them told me. 
Historv, I dis­covered ·in the fall of 1989, is not pre­dictable. Nor is it inevitable, simple or unambiguous. I was surprised by the events of Nov. 9, 1989, but I was not uninformed. Like everyone in Berlin, I had become addicted to news some­time that spring and summer. So much was happening all around us ­in Poland, Hungary, the Soviet Union, next door in the German Democratic Republic and as t'ar away as China. My housemate and I bought every newspaper we could find -and took every opportunity we could to get on a train or plane -to see for ourselves. 
During 1989, I visited Yugoslavia and Poland, the Soviet Union and Czechoslovakia each twice and East Germany more times than I could count. I knew that those countries were being transformed -anyone could see that ­but [ had no idea that within a few years, all of them, except for Poland, would have ceased to exist. As late as October 1989, it seemed as likely that East Germany would be the site of another crackdown in the style of Tienamen Square than that the Wall would open peace­fully and the two Germanies uni(y within a year. There was a kind of confusion and won­derment to the events of November 1989, as developments somehow took everyone by sur­prise. For me, that air of bemused joy will always be associated with the hordes of East German cars -small, stinky Trabants -that poured across the border in tho late weeks ol' 1989. Their drivers had no idea where they were going; East German maps included only white space in what was West Berlin. 

It's easy to be smart -and smug -looking back from our vantage point a decade later. It's also easy to forget that in November 1989, the opening of the Berlin Wall didn't look like the final American victory in the Cold War. Instead it looked like the triumph of a few dar­ing leaders and a lot of peaceful, persistent protesters in the countries of the east bloc, from the Soviet Union to Poland, Hungary, Czechoslovakia and the German Democratic Republic. 
Today, 10 years later, Mikhail Gorbachev ­once renowned architect of glasnost and idol of Germans east and west -has long been reduced to making advertise­ments for Pizza Hut. The women and men who faced down police to demand "socialism with a human face" are all but forgotten, buried beneath a few CNN clips of euphoric, 
champagne-swilling crowds dancing on the Wall. Maybe 
there is another 
lesson about his­tory here, a les­son about how 
quickly and 
effortlessly we rewrite the past to suit 
our needs in 
the present. 
I'm not nostalgic about the disappear­ance of the East German state. It was an oppres­sive, dishon­
est, destruc­tive regime based on a 
network of informants so dense that they 
outnumbered 
the objects of surveillance in many dissident 
organizations. H was a paranoid regime too, with its 
watchtowers, dogs and armies of petty bureaucrats eager to regulate and obstruct. 
Even the food was terrible, 
at least what you could get easily as a visitor in shops and restaurants. Nor do I mourn the collapse of communism. a system that 
took an enormous toll on members of my own family in Ukraine in the 1920s and 19:iOs, and later in Siberia. 
My only plea is for some humility in the face 
of history and its complexity. By all means, cel­ebrate the tenth anniversary of the fall of the Wall. I intend to raise a glass myself. But keep in mind the generations of people whose lives and struggles, past and present, can be obscured by the easy claim that "we won the Cold War." 
Doris L. Bergen is an associate professor of history. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
j 
VIEWPOINT 
O
Tf!E Tuesday, November 9, 1999 BSERYER page 13 
Ten Years Later: Remembering November 9, 1989 

I wnnl to lwd early on the night of Nov. rJ, I rJ81J. Around 10:30 p.m., l(kki, a friPnd of min11 in tho dorm, hang:Nl on my door and dnrnandnd that I join a group that Mark w:1s lwacling Jantzen for Wcsl Bcirlin. (;n~al, 
Guest

I thought. 
Column

tlwy'vn had 
anollwr party 
i11 the basn­
n inn t and gottnn r('ally plast1irnd this 
limn. Com! thing I lockpc) my door; 
who rn•.mls a pile uf drunks in your 
room wlwn you'rn trying to gt't so1111\ 
shwp'! Ekki wouldn't go away, how­
PVIW, and h11 soundml half'-way sobnr 
so I tried Lo makn se11so out of his 
babbling. IIP said sonwthing about 
snning a rPport on thn Wost Berlin 
PVl'!ling nnws that East Bnrlinnrs 
WPn~ l}('ing lnt through Llw wall in 
Bornlwlmnr Street. Givm1 tho ovnnts 
ovl'r tlw last month in liast (;ermany. 
ii didn't SPPIII m1lirdy impossible, so 
I dPcidPd lo join tlw group i11 invnsti­
galing llrn possibility. 
Matthias, Fidus and Quitschi joincd 
us. ;\s an /\nwrican. I was only 
allownd to cross the bnnlPr at two 
crossings in East Berlin ­
C:hm:kpoint Clmrlie and the subway 
station at Friedrich Street. If I was to 
go ,dong, wn couldn't go to 
Bornholnwr Street. We didn't rnalize 
at the tinw that in the gnnnral chaos 
of that night, none of the border 
guards al Bornholmcr Street would 
ilav1! to botlwn!d to enforr.c such for­
malities. In our ignorance, we set olT 
for lhr. Friedrich Strnut subway bor­
cfor crossing, a live-minute walk 
from the dorm. 
;\ huge crowd was waiting there, all drawn by the same news broad­cast. i\ major of the East German Border Guards was blocking the nntrance to the border crossing. lie instructml everyone to go to a travel agnncy at Alexander Square in downtown East Berlin, where exit visas would be issued imnrndiately. What to do'! We rode the subway two stops to thn ollicc building and, sure 1•nough, tlwy had hmi!Pd lhe employ­ens out of b<1d at midnight to opon for husinnss. An unormous crowd gath­Hn•cl outsi<fri llw building. PeoplP­parkcd their cars in the middle of strent and rnshr.d to gBt in line. The wildest rumors circulated that we would bH surrounded by soldiers and all arrnstml, since exprnssing the dPsirn lo leave East Germany was still rcgardnd as trnas()n. After two hours of waiting, we wnnl back to Friodrich Street. The samu major was now helplessly watching mass,,is of pnoplc crowd through the border crossing. Wti joined llrn crowd and surgPd through the Wall. 
Ekki, Quibchi and Matlhias wern about 20 years old. Even though our dorm was only a five-minute walk from llw wall. limy had rwver in their livns lmm1 abl11 lo take the six-minute walk necessary to get to West Berlin on tlm other side. We had already countnd the years, 40, until they 
would qualify for the East. German 
vnrsion of social security and the 
right to travel to West Berlin, West 
Germany or cvnn the United States to 
visit. Those 40 years of waiting had 
now been rnduced to one fateful 
night 
Fidus was a slightly different case. Sim was a non-traditional sopho­more in her mid-20s and had close relatives in West Germany. She had been granted the boon of visiting them oncn already. The opening of the \,\'all meant something clsn for her. Iler boyfriend lived in West Bnrlin. Despite living in the same city, they lived in two dilforent coun­tries. The Wall meant that Half could come see Pidus, but she could never go visit him. Hairs dorm thus became our gnal. -I le had made the same mistake I had of going to bed (mrly and had missed the nows of the Wall opening up. When wo woke him up at 5 a.111., it took him quite a while to figure out if he was really awake or still drnaming. Them was no doubt from tlH~ first minute after midnight of Nov. 10 that Nov. 9, 1989, would go down in German his­tory. The lil'e of every East German was radically changed. 
Ten yoars later, Germans are reflecting intently on the meaning of those incredible night hours. Some things arc clearer. We now know that the initial confusion at the bor­der crossings was caused by a mis­take al a press conference at 7 p.m. on Nov. 9 by Gunter Schabowski, the party boss for East Berlin and speak­er for the Politburo. The party lead­ership had decided to let anyone who asked have an exit visa starting the next morning. Schabowski announced this new law at the press conference. When one of the journal­ists asked when the law would go into effect, Schabowski first looked confused, then answered that as far as he knew, the new regulation was e!Tective immediately. This announcement sent the first people to the wall and when the crowd grew large enough in the Bor.nholmer Street, Lt. Colonel Harald Jaeger of the Border Guards, the oflicer in charge there, decided to lot people through to avoid a general riot. 
The fall of the Wall was cP.rtainly sudden, but not without preparation. Key elements of this preparntion included the new politics of the Soviet Union under Gnrbachev since 1985; the courageous reform move­ment. Solidarity, and the resulting frne elections in Poland in .June of 1989: and llungary's September decision to open the Iron Curlain a few months later. For East Germany, two movements in the fall of 1989 were the actual immediate cause for the Wall tu open. One wa.c; the flow of emigrants from East Germany via IIungary, Cznchoslovakia and Poland to West Cormany. The other was a series of ever-more powerful non­violent demonstrations for change in lhe major East German cities. These demonstrations had their start in church prayer meetings for peace in 
the face of the threat of nuclear war. 
After weeks of police brutality 
against people trying to demonstrate 
after these prayer meetings. 70,000 
demonstrators in Leipzig and 10,000 
in East Berlin on Oct. 9, 1989, faced 
the real and publicly announced dan­
ger of a "Chinese solution," i.e., a 
police massacre. The E.ast German 
government backed down from the 
usn of violence on that evening, 
something none of the demonstrators 
could have known in advance. From 
that point on. the government lost 
control of its people, making Nov. 9 
merely the culmination of this 
process. 
Thus, it was not the rhetoric of 
American presidents or the wasteful 
spending of the Star Wars anti-mis­
sile defense program that were pri­
marily responsible for the fall of the 
Wall. The courage ofnon-violent 
demonstrators in East Germany on 
Oct. 9, 1989, deserves to be com­
memorated just as much as a those 
of a month later. 
Finally, any discussion of Nov. 9, 1989 calls to mind another Nov. 9 in German history, namoly the one in 1938. On this night, the Nazis orga­nized a nation-wide pogrom against .Jews known as the Reichskristallnacht. Scores of .Jews were killed, hundreds of synagogues and Jewish businesses burned, thou­sands ofJews arrested and sent to concentration camps. The 10th anniversary of the fall of the wall is certainly a time to celebrate the burst of freedom that Ekki, Matthias, Fidus and Quitschi enjoyed along with millions of others. Remembering Oct. 9, 1989, shows us the responsibility of and possibility for common citizens to effect great changes for the betterment of humanity, while the memory of Nov. 9, 1938 highlights the dangers of indifference. 
Some things are still murky, espe­cially how East and West Berliners and East and West Germans will get along in the l'uture. Municipal elec­tions were held in Berlin a month ago. The right-of-center Christian Democratic Union won an absolute majority in the Wost. The remodeled Communist party, now called the Party of Democratic Socialism, was the top vote-getter in the East. The dramatically different voting pattnrns in East and West Berlin are among the evidence manv see of a continua­tion of the Wall iI1 people's heads. 
While the future of Germany looks both tense and exciting. a look back to Nov. 9 provides Germans with a deep sense ofjoy and satisfaction. 
Mark Jantzen was a student of Protestant theology at Humboldt University in East Berlin from 1988 to 1991. lie is a doctoral candidate in modern European history at Notre Dame doing research in Berlin. 
The views (!Xpressed in this colunin are those ofthe author and not nec­essari(l/ those ofThe Observer. 

"ft was a surprise, and a relief, because it opened up opportunities for people who had been oppressed. Our hope was that il would bring together a country that ha·d been divided. " 
Marilou Eldred 
president, Saint Mary's College 

"l was in Mrs. McKeever's social studies class. She brought in a tape of newsclips and we studied them for days. She told us we were too young to fully understand what was going on, but that these events were changing history." 
Jaclyn Villano 
senior, Pasquerilla East 

"/ was 16 when the Wall came down. I remember it was a very· emotional moment to see how happy all the people from the east were and also to see the warm reception by the West Germans. I was especially happy for my dad, who used to live in Berlin as a teenager when the Wall was built. The unification meant a lot ofsac­rifices for West Germany, but I would always prefer the Wall com­ing down because-I think freedom is one ofthe most important things in the world. " 
Karsten Becker 

first-year MBA from Hamburg, Germany 
"/ have images ofthe Berlin Wall falling, but I couldn't tell you 
where I was when I heard that it fell. It wasn't like when John F. 
Kennedy or Martin Luther King, Jr. 
were killed. What I do remember is 
visiting East Berlin after the Wall fell. lt's like New York City now ... there's a lot ofmixture. And graffi­ti. There's graffiti everywhere. You 
didn't see that before. " 
Christine Arzt 

senior, La Mans, from Ramstand, Germany 
"Think ofit as Germany's Woodstock if you will, except with deep significance." 
Burkhard Prause 
Ph.D. candidate in physics 


O
THE page 14 BSERVER Tuesday, November 9, 1999 
MUSIC COLUMN 
Techno Music: An American Tradition 
By TODD CALLAIS Scene Music Critic 
There is perhaps no genrn of music more misunderstood or stflreotyped than techno. It is not uncommon to hear a self-pro­claimed music fan say, "Oh, I could do that stuff, just give me a comput­er," or "Whatever, I don't like that Euro stuff." Others will assume that techno music is a genre limited only to groups like Chemical Drothers and Fatbov Slim. Tho truth is that techno is o·no of tho most complicat­ed and intricate styles of music with a deep American history that ranges over hundreds of talented and respect-worthy artists. ThP story hegins in Germany, 1974, with the release of the song "Autobahn" by the two-man key­board group Kraftwcrk. This his­toric event moved the works of Alvin Toffler. 
From this, Atkins created a mind­set and style of music which lives todav. 
He· went on to befriend and train Derrick May, and later Kevin Saunderson. The three of them went on to form Metroplex, Transma.t and KMS Records, respectively, on the famous Gratiot Street in Detroit (a.k.a. Tcchno Boulevard). Known as the three wise mPn of Harly techno music, ihey created a scene that spread to radio and caught the attention of London record producer N0il Rushton who took the scene to Europe. The album Big run by Saunderson's group, Inner City, became the first successful full­length tP-ehno album. As they ~ay, the rest is history, and a permanent fixture in music was born. 
The biggest misconception about 
techno music is it 
the concept of elec­is easy to create,
"Techno is not just a
tronic instrumen­but this notion 
tation from the repetition ofsound but could not be fur­minds of' inventors, the formation ofan ther from the scientists and fac­truth. Tech no
extreme rhythm that 
tory workers to music goes through
invades the mind and
radio waves and a rigorous process record shelves. can be felt in every part of careful editing, The story then scrutiny over sam­
ofthe body.,, 
moves to Detroit, ples, guitar and 
where a group of young artists were combining forms of disco, rock and hip-hop into something that would forever change America's music. With the release of Cybotron's 1981 album, Alleys of your Mind, the stage was set for the first electronic studios by a song that broke from tradition with its first purely electronic sound and large public appeal. 
Where did the influences and ter­minology in techno music come from? Much of it was started by a Juan Atkins, a member of the group Cybotron, who took a future studies class at Belleville lligh School in Belleville, Mich., which focused on 
drum instrumenta­tion, keyboard programming and general musical knowledge. Most of the big-name techno artists now, like Ed Simons and Tom Rowlans from the Chemical Brothers, com­bine training in classical piano, rock guitar and drums with wide-ranging musical influences that are more eclectic than those found in most other genres of music. 
"This history stuff is great and all, but what about the actual sound?" It is impossible to argue that all techno is good; there are always black sheep in any genre of music. Techno is not just a repetition of sound but the formation of an 
UPCOMING CONC_ERTS 
South /fy Bend 
Elton John JACC Cowboy Nouth Stepan -hosted by SUB 
Chicago  
Ash  Ne1ro  
The Roots  House of Blues  
Saye Fer,,s  Ne1ro  
The Who  Hogse of Blues  

Joe Sirummer Net-ro MeHssa E-theridse Chicaso Thea•re Primus Rlivjera Pennywise House of Blues Chris Cornell RliY1era Dan1:i9 House ol Blues John Scot•eld Park Wes1 coun1:•ns Crows Arason Queensr,che Riviera Gress Allman House of Blues Stln9 Chica90 Theatre 51ereolab Ne-cro 

NOY. Ii 
Nov. II':7 
IIOY.9 lloY.11 lloY.12 Nov•. lt••lil 
'NOY. Ii" Nov. Ii Nov. 18 Noy•.. 19 
NOY• 20 
Nov. 21 Nov. 21 
IIOY. 23-2,'I 
Nov. 26 
Dec. ••t 
Dec. :1•4 
Dec.•6•1 
extreme rhythm that invades the mind and can be felt in every part of the body. When listening to techno one can hear and sense beat changes that can b0 used to dance to, study with, drive to, anything. Ii is true that th0re is often no lyrical aspect to electronic music, but this is because the artists are appealing to a higher sens0 of music appn~cia­tion such as instrumentation and sound appeal. The artist crafts each song from his or her pl'rsunal expe­riences. 
For those who want to learn morn about tndrno music, thern an' a couple of different ways. A number of books am available that can pro­vide information. The best of these is probably Dan Sicko's "Techno Rebels," whieh spans techno's roots from Detroit to it:; international recognition today. It also has a rnc­ommended discography section to help everyone from the biggest techno fan to a novice. 
There are a number of great mag­azines too, like Urb, Raygun and Wired magazine, which can provide up-to-date information on the elec­tronica world. 
The best way to learn is first-hand experience at a concert. There is no cooler experience than a Chemical Brothers or Fatboy Slim concert. 
Some techno albums that are good starting points to the genre are Chemical Brother's Exit Planet Dust, Prodigy's Music for the Jilted Generation. the compilation "Amp," DJ Scott Henry's Smile and Juno Reactor's hypnotic are good places to start. Other very notable acts include Fatboy Slim, Fluke, the Crystal Method, Underworld, Death in Vegas, and Josh Wink. The best new album to come out in the realm of techno is called Rhythm and Stealth by Leftfield. 
Techno is an experience that any­one dedicated to music should give a chance. Moreover, it is an American tradition. 


New RELEASES 


Today 
Fiopa Apple -When the Pawn Pilila· Coli-•I Belli.eve ·In Love Missy Elliott -Hot Boyz _Natalie Merchant -Live In Concert 
Old 97s-1.9 
savaae Garden -Affirmation SubHme -Greatest Hits Toad the Wet Sprocket -PS Tonic -suaar 

November 16 
Ani DiFranco· • To 1:he Teeth Dr. Dre • Dr. Dre 2 oo I Elton John • Chartbusters Go Popt Hiss • 25th Anniversary Star Profile Horn • Issues NarHyn Nanson • Last Tour On Earth Sonic Youth • Goodbye 20th Century 
Day, Month, Year The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Learning through Service

csc CENTER 
FOR
CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL 
CONCERNS .... OCIAL 

LEAD TUTOR PROGRAM 
The lead tutor program was established in an attempt to enhance the 
infrastructure of Notre Dame students' tutoring efforts in the South Bend 
community. The lead tutors oversee tutors at select area schools and com­
munity centers, working directly with the site contacts to improve the 
quality of tutoring offered and to improve the experience for all involved. 
If you are interested in tutoring in the South Bend area, please contact 
one of the following lead tutors. Transportation is provided for the times 
listed. 
CHARLES MARTIN YOUTH 
CENTER (TITH 4-SpmJ 
Mike Hutchinson 424 N. Frances Apt. #12 234-0932 
CLAY HIGH SCHOOL (W 2:45-4:45pm) 
Kristin Jakubek 245 Cavanaugh Hall 
634-0834 
EGGLESTON (MIW 2:30­3:30pmJ 
Laura Colangelo 
I03 Walsh Hall 
634-2695 
HARRISON (M,W 3-Spm, TH 2:30-3:45pm) 
Sam Murillo 211 & 213 St. Edward Hall 
1999-2000 LEAD TUTORS 
634-1635 

JEFFERSON (M-TH S:30­7:30pm) 
Erika Loye 1627 South Turtle Creek Drive 
South Bend IN 46637 
243-1041 

LASALLE HIGH (T/fH 10:SOam-12:JOpmJ 
Nicole Burkette 
132 Howard Hall 634-2585 
LASALLE YOUTH CENTER (M/W 4:30-5:JOpm) 
Ron Sutsko 
IO 11 E. Madison St. 287-5744 
LINCOLN IT/fH 3-SpmJ 
Nikki DePersis 342 Farley Hall 634-4252 
NORTHEAST NEIGHBORHOOD 
CENTER (M 2:45-4:45pmJ 
Kristin Jakubek 245 Cavabaugh Hall 634-0834 
. RILEY HIGH SCHOOL (M/W 2:45-4:45) 
Charlie Miles 1704 Turtle Creek Dr. Apt 4 273-9411 
SLICE OF LIFE (M 3:30-5:301 
Brian Wolford 441 Knott Hall 634-4763 
Community-Based Learing Coordinators 
The Center for Social Concerns has eight formalized partnerships in the South Bend Community. The following people work closely with Notre Dame students, linking them to the educational mission of the particular agency and providing many opportunities to learn. Please contact them if you would like to volunteer at their agency or just learn more about what they do. 
1999-2000 Community-Based Learning Coordinators 
AIDS Ministry/AIDS Assist 
P.O. Box 11582 South Bend, lN 46634 234-2870 
Boys and Girls Club of St. Joseph 
Kregg Van Meter 5020 E. Sample Street South Bend, IN 4660 I 232-2048 x371 
Center for the Homeless 
Katie Glynn 813 S. Michigan South Bend, IN 4660 I 282-8700 
Chapin Street Clinic 
Michelle Peters 326 S. Chapin Street South Bend, IN 4660 I 239-5233 
La ~asa de Amlstad 
Angel Chacon 746 South Meade South Bend, IN 46619 233-2120 
Logan Center 
Marissa Runkle 1235 N. Eddy P.O. Box 1049 South Bend, IN 46624 289-4831 
South Bned Community 
Schools 
Tonya Sexton Center for Social Concerns 631-9405 
Charles Martin Youth Center/South Bend Heritage Foundation 
Jessie Whitaker 802 Lincoln Way West South Bend, In 46616 280-7092 -CMYC 631-3211 -direct line 
and Social Action 

ONCERNS 


WELCOME 
Hospitality is an important part of the Center's work on campus. Center hospitality includes: a coffeehouse and kitchen, a large multi-purpose room, seminar rooms·;"a resource room, a library, a reflection room, and vehicles. These facilities are available for use by approved student and community groups. Contact the Center at 631-5293 to reserve rooms for lectures, films, liturgies, meals, other &atherings, and to inquire about vehicle use. 
Center Hours 
M-F 8:00 a.m. -I 0:00 p.m. _ 
Sat. noon -2:00 p.m. * 
Sun. 6:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m. 
*On home football weekends, the Center opens 2 1/2 
hours before game time and closes 1/2 hour before 
game time. 

Please stop by! You can also reach the Center at 631­5293 or nd.cntrsc. l@nd.edu. Check out our web page at http:/ /www.nd.edu/ ~ndcntrsc/ 
We look forward to meeting you! 
Student Government Service Commissioners 
Student Governement Service Commissioners provide leadership in organizing campus-wide service and social ac(ion projects. 
SUB Kathryn Gallagher Student Government Kathleen McCann Class of 2003 Pam Ronson Class of 2002 Anthony Pagliarini 
Michael Crowley Class of 2001 Thomas Repetto Class of 2000 Lauren Herring 4-1266 4-2663 4-2948 4-4512 4-3254 4-1569 246-1303 
The Center for Social Con.cerns provides educational experiences in social concerns inspired by Gospel values and Catholic social teachings.· Central to this proces is csc enhancing the spiritual and intellectual awareness of -N E F R
C .E T R O 
students, faculty, stajj·and alumnae about today's com­SOCIAL CONCERNS
plex social realities, calling us all to service and action for a more just and humane world. 
-· ­

Day, Month, Year The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Student Groups 
:.J.:.1.~.}.i:,, ··· mz· ·.· ,,at:.
:v;;~~t~¢rs•·giy:,·;:;:;::l1R1rt1;~1~iij. .
···-'•······•··'•ftf HIV+ by providing sup~rtand assi$futice Withe5ffi~e tasks. Student Contact: RachelTabahgcura @ 24-6~ 1072 
AMERICAN CANCER 
SOCIETY 

Volunteers organize on-campus awareness raising and fund-raising events. Student Contact Matthew Monberg @ 643-0969 

:;!ff!ii~,;::: .... a,r~!l;filfl? 
atfout··•··oumari ··rightf}ss.ues' :W~t{d~iai)'Stdd~ilf 
Contact: Elizabeth Marino @ 634-2555 
BEST BUDDIES 

Volunteers develop their relationships with persons with mild to moderate mental retardation by going to rnov ies, sporting events, concerts, and by participat­ing together in recreational activities. Student Contact: Elizabeth Whalen @ 634-4072 

CAMPUS ALIANCE FOR RAPE ELIMINATION Volunteers are students and faculty/administrators from both ND and SMC. C.A.R.E. members make dorm presentations about rape on campus and sponsor rape support groups on campus. Student Contact: James Schuyler @ 634-0674 

CENTER FOR THE HOMELESS CHILDREN'S 
GROUP Volunteers spend time once a week with the children who live at the CFH. Volunteers might tutor, organize field trips and plan art and craft activities. Student Contact: Luisa Lewis@ 634-3682 

COMMUNITY ALLIANCE TO SERVE HISPANICS (CASH) 
Volunteers reach out to the Hispanic community of South Bend through service activities, educational programs, and awareness projects. Student Contact: Joanna Garcia @ 634-0739 
~~
••
dents. By going into classioom$/vblun.'teers )1Qp~ Jo promote science and tecihhology . cifreers ..··Student 
Contact: Anne Bums @ aburns@nd.edu 
FEMINISTS FOR LIFE 
Promote through education, outreach and advocacy a pro-life/pro-woman perspective and facilitate practi­cal resources and support for women in need. Student contact: Maureen Kramlich@ 634-4401 
Jir:,,1;11¦~1:,,::,: :::,,,, 
~" ,,: ..,... ··· -~~s~ffi 6~~:t!1~~~~11l~!~~~ta,•a&rC~~ 
requests the team's service. Student Contact: Nicole Johnson @ 634-4132 
FOODSHARE Volunteers deliver, in groups of four or five, the left­over food from the campus dining halls to the Center for the Homeless and Hope Rescue Mission in South Bend. Student Contact: Elizabeth Lynch @634-2534 

;ta.'e./...·.•·. '.'.:.•.).•;m•.•·.·.).. 1:.,.: ., .. ··,.•..··•·)l···~.\.••·• WH.~.~fh··· ~i.6~£,Stiid.~f
c,1r1~~t;~mm.ie<':;¢f{).W'@o34-JQft JC· ,:,,:•· ..)•··· ···• ·· 
GLOBAL HEALTH INITIATIVE 
ND Educates and promotes awareness of health relat­ed issues around the world. Student Contact: Liberty Balbort@ 634-2937 

HELPFUL UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS (H.U.G.S.) 
Volunteers work with the Memorial Hospital Pediatric Intensive Care Unit. Student Contact: Amy Anderson@247-1689 

JUNIOR ACHIEVEMENT CLUB OF NOTRE DAME 
Volunteers teach three different programs at area schools: Project Business, The Basics of Business, Economics of Staying in School. Student Contact: Kirn Smith@ 634-2978 
,~~~-­
as,~#1t,~teseim:h•.Jll)~ihle•sqlµt(p#s••to••llie·•ProijleQ.i;· 
StudenfContact: Keli EngvalL@ 247-9848 or 
kengcall@nd.edu 

SPECIAL FRIENDS 
Volunteers spend about 4 hours a week in the home of an autistic or similar special needs child helping with homework, speech and occupational therapy goals, and having a good-time. Student Contact: Kristin Augustine @ 251-9096 

MANANTIAL 

Volunteers are trained as mentors to Hispanic young 
people ages 8 -15. Student Contact: Leticia 
McDonald 

·'as~tst,•wi111· 'm~dlc~l.. ••pfui:tid1fret•, 
Brian Seainan@634-l576 
MS.WIZARD DAY PROGRAM TEAM 
Volunteers organize a one-day science fair in February for young women in middle school. Student Contact: Juliette Rederstorff@ 634-3541 

NOTRE DAME HUGH O'BRIAN LEADERSHIP ALUMNI ASSOCIATION IND HOBY) 
HOBY Alumni at Notre Dame and others interested in becoming more involved in leadership develope their leadership skills through social and service activities. 
Student Contact: Kendra Kennedy @ 634-2955 

RECYCLIN' IRISH 

Volunteers organize throughout the dorms and facili­ties on campus the various recycling efforts, which include newspaper, glass, aluminum and now paper, plastic, and polyurethane. Student Contact: Madalyn Orr@ 634-3864 
\Jqtrn forti~; ttij:iitt5 W~JH~gm~/o;c;; iiMW Rlght­
~· 
to-Lifeweek during the year. Student Contact: Laura Antkowiak@634-4149 
SAINT VINCENT de PAUL ASSOCIATION 
Volunteers support and assist the local St. Vincent de Paul Society in its ministry to the poor of South Bend through occasional group activities and fundraisers and individual house visits to those who call for help .. Student Contact: Vince Bemadin @ 63 1-0779 

STUDENTS FOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 
Volunteers assist not-for-profit organizations in South Bend using their business expertise. Student Contact: Charlie Miles@273-94l I 
11!!11\lllBBI:•11111111:::!llla:•• 
:1111¦11,111111,1111:1111&!
l,J~tfot w~ik BE tiiitibg aMlii qdnsirucffie ti:ipies: 
Student Contact: Amanda Lee Gehtine@243;;9930 
SUPERSIBS 

Volunteers work with children who have siblings with disabilities. Student Contact: Todd Church-@ 243­4715 Community Agency: Logan Center; Contact Jeff Dobbelaere@ 288-3453 

WOMEN'S RESOURCE CENTER Volunteers provide assistance to the women of Notre Dame with issues and problems that are particularly acute for women, such as rape and sexual assault, eat­ing disorders,, etc. Student Contact: Dawn Kennedy @634-2513 
a 
. . :i!!Ml/¥
alleviating hunger. Student Contact: KellJBenkerf@ 634-431 l 
Com 
AIDS MINISTRIES / 
Al 
Volunteers work with the age and enhance the lives of those i affected by HlV and Al Community-Based Learning C Emig @ 234-2870 
~ 
Contact: Patricia Havens@ 2-& 
AMERICAN RED C 
Community volunteer servic grams, recruits, trains and place meet community needs in hea emergency services. Agency Allen@234-0191 
i~llli1ll:illi~;;
~~l~~i§r••·•ktQ;t#li•••'r?~f::ijgfi:••·•'
AgerieY Coritact Ktegg ·. Van
2048 .. .. •.•... 
BROADWAY CHRISTIAN 
Volunteers help with the Sund ing, serving and cleaning up) food pantry and neighbor Agency Phone: 289-0333 
1 11

l! l111!lll!l 1 11¦•-­
Vofo1ttebdi pmvi4¢ ~mirgtincYi QFctiUdr¢n ·aged 6 weeks to planned respite while parents counseling. Agency Contact: Be 232-2048 
CASIE CENTER 
Volunteers assist with intakes in tion which provides advocacy abused children. Agency Phone: 
Social Con: 
. Alumni 

Sean Broome 4­
. s;:~~n~-r­
:~;!~f?<'"' 
Pat BrEm.,km
::~~i~.... 
Philip ~ado!l~~ f\f,; 
. Farley -... ··.. ·· ,~,"¼(·~···.
Erin C9nd9n / · · 
. Fischer·"-'"',M-1,, . / .::"f~;J . 
Pat W,\!Mivm.·,,,,.,,,.,...,.,.,,.,,Jb 
. Howar~ " .. : 
Sue P«i'adJn~, 'J 1.· 
. Keenan ·w,m'."" ,,.,,,.,,,t)' · 
Derek Gipson • 
. 
Keough Nick Fonte i 

. 
Knott David Hartwig ~ 

. 
Lewis Carla DeJohn 

. 
Lyons Molly Bechert 4-. 


Day, Month, Year The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
-
unity Partnerships 
CORVILLA, INC. Volunteers develop one-Lo-one relationships with Corvilla residents. Corvilla is a home for persons with mental retardation. Agency Phone: 289-9779 

1

:·~,~~~~~1I!!lHtfoset•A:;~~~t~l\i~rf~1: 
8522 
EL BUEN VECINO 
Volunteers tutor people in English and help them study for their high school equivalency. They also help with child care and work with mothers to teach money management skills and health and nutrition. Agency Phone: 287­2712 
:!~~~~~~ 
Qi¢ij, irri:ili :ijhgl¢,]~li 
..·· ,¢ik : ~oi'~e:111:. also· assist regulafdaycare insttuc:t-0rs ih plan~ ning and implementing their organi~d pro• gram. Agency Phone: 232-0220 
FAMILY AND CHILDREN CENTER 
Volunteers are needed to provide role models for the children and "teach them how to be nor­mal teenagers." Agency Contact: Carrie Horvats@ 259-5666 ext. 278 
~!~illi 
Goodwill stores. Agency Contact: DeeRhody @ 234•1611 
HEAD START 
Volunteers are needed to work two hours per week with children on a one-to-one basis. Agency Phone: 287-5938 
i~~~~r!~¦~lfAlll~il1! 
women in homi hianageilifnt, fl.nan~; ~tc, 
They are also needed to help with child care. Agency Phone: 233-3486 
HOPE RESCUE MISSION 
Volunteers serve meals to persons who are homeless and destitute, assist with the mainte­nance of the facility, and visit residents on a one-to-one basis. Agency Phone: 235-4154 

•· ' ~··*-:~~~~~,~,~:t!~;::~ ~;;'~/ 
Volunteers :provid~ supp<)rt service$ fur termi­nally ill patients ~d thtifr firriHieiC Agency Phone: 243-3 I 27 
LA CASA DE AMISTAD 
Volunteers work in a youth and adult center on the west side of South Bend that serves the needs of Hispanics. Contact: Community­Based Learning Coordinator: Angel Chacon@ 233-2120 

ST. MARGARET'S HOUSE 
Volunteers help with children, answer the phone and serve as hosts for guests. The House is open to adult women and girls and boys under twelve. Agency Contact: Kathy Schneider@ 234-7795 
LOGAN CENTER 

Volunteers work with disabled adults and chil­dren in a variety of capacities. Contact Community-Based Learning Coordinator: .ote;;l~tn11ig driv~'Cian ~rkthrougn this grass-· Marissa Runkle@ 289-4831 rbots org~niiation. Agency Contact Peggy 
Giloney@251-4906 

SALVATION ARMY 
Volunteers provide food for Thanksgiving, Christmas and Easter baskets for families in South Bend. Student volunteers can "adopt" a South Bend family through the Salvation Army. Agency Phone: 233-9471 
MENTAL HEALTH ASSOCIATION 
Volunteers are needed for the "I'm Thumbody" program, self-esteem program for third­graders. Agency Contact: Nancy Bykowski @ 234-1049 



t~¥:tl.ea.i111 ~~~te;;; ,:,~i::~~~r:'::~s;:;,:'w:! 
t~ori; basis arid orga:rilze ~~erii~gs ~fbi~g~'. . meet weekly to talk about what is happening in Agency Contact: Tommie Owens @ 287-650 I their lives and the world they face. Agency Contact: Michelle Peters @ 232-5013 
MILTON HOME 
Volunteers visit elderly residents on a one-to­

~----~-i;;l!1iil 
one basis. Agency Phone: 233-0165 vot6Ai<lJff~tfk ibc1NMJ•hY with• ac1uit ~~ dents who are studying for their GED or sim~ ply learning literacy skills. Agency Contact: Gayle Silver@ 282-4136 
SOUTH BEND HERITAGE
;1~~il!i~1~:!1~;:1;!'1.lll!1l!l1i: _<::;111:1: 
FOUNDATION 

Volunteers are able to work in all facets of 
neighborhood revitalization. Also available are counselors and assist with various events internships and couse-based work in communi­throughout the year. Agency Contact: ty developement. Contact: David Hay @ 289­
!!\uz=tt!t~Z;~~fti~~Je;·f:;· 
Stephanie Santos @ 259-9912 1066 
PORTAGE MANOR 

Volunteers needed to pay regular visits to indi­vidual residents who have no family. Agency Contact: Toni Grisham @272-9I00 oth~r·••events thtoughout ·the~·year. Agency 
Contact: Mary Heck@ 234-3136 

UNITED RELIGIOUS COMMUNITY 
Volunteers are trained in mediation skills and work on special projects, the Victim Offender Reconciliation Program and the Advocacy Center. Agency Phone: 282-2397 
PROJECT WARMTH 
Volunteers help collect, sort and distribute jackets and coats to share with individuals in need. Contact: Tracy Wickham@ 631-5293 



-· )~·-··;::··· :i[:il!lf:?l~l/dill~ltI!l]lili~!;I1lt WOMEN'S CARE CENTER 
Volunteers help welcome pregnant women and couples by helping them gather the resources that they need to complete the pregnancy.
~~!?t~(~;J-.... 
Agency Phone: 273-8986 
ST. HEDWIG'S OUTREACH CENTER 
Volunteers help with tutoring and provide sta­ble role models for children who come from families that are in crisis. It involves one or two afternoons per week from 4:30-6:00 p.m. Agency Phone: 287-8932 


ASSIST 
cy to support fectcd with or S Contaci: 1rdinator Erin 
:IATION 
tr the pre-ven­,a!>e. Agency •2321 
ss 
plans, pru­
vol untccrs lu 
h, safety and 
ontact Mary 
'; health and · thl'ough I8. :ew@ 232­
•ARISH 
meal (cook­: well as the ,d projects. 

ort•lerm care IO years for re receiving ty Taylor@ 
his organiza­serviccs for 282-1414 

·.,x::t•~,••-.i•cATHOuc·•~tr1~itt1:t::::1~;1~:::t:; 
· Various Cathcilfo ·Chiiri!ies,,ageifo1es pr,ql;cfl:I~ ., 
variety. o(:;etvices • ''in~tudiiig'0$¢tvib¢~ J~:r: 
women, children and refugee$, Age~cyphone:. 
234-3111 . 
CENTER FOR BASIC LEARNING SKILLS 
Volunteers tutor adults from 9:30-11 :30 
~;~~?t:;lr~3~~Ji~ ~~~:;:i: ~~~~~]~~ :~o~;~ £lend. Agency Contact: Sister Marita @ 259­5427 
CENTER FOR THE ~1;:::;;!;\m Voktnteers··p(6\iide -a variety1 rif ~~l~~~'.'t.i,l homeless adults and•, chiJdrirL :c.ntack Community-Based Learning Coordinator Katie Glynn @ 282-8700 
CSC SOUTH BEND COMMUNITY SCHOOLS PARTNERNSHIP 
Volunteers give classroom presentations and work with grade school children as mentors an,! tutors. Contact: Community-Based Leaming Coordinator Tonya Sexton @ 631­9405 
CHAPIN STREETCtiNtci ;,..,;%· Volunteers work in a mediialdirii~iliatpf~ vides services to low-income adults andfafui:.; I ies. Contact: Community-Based Learning Coordinator Michelle Peters@ 289-7662 
CHARLES MARTIN YOUTH CENTER 
Volunteers work with children in after-school tutoring programs. See South Bend Heritage Foundation for other opportunities. Contact: Jessie Whitakes@ 631-3211 
CHRISTMAS IN APRIL 

Volunteers upgrade neighborhood hornes !ind lift residents' spirits. Contact:. Mary Edgington @63\-4077 
erns Commissioners 
1999.-2000 
1627 
.. --=· 
4238 . Pasquerilla Wesf e• 

. McGlinn  
Marybeth Radley  4-3645  
. Morrissey  
Richard Klee  4-3623  
. O'Neill  
.  Bill'Forrelra  4-1592  
. Pangborn  
Jan McEntee  ~-2344  
. Paaquerllla Eut  
Gretchen Danysh  .4-2672  

RNicole CarrH) f{.4-1308 
.... . SL Eciward•·--­
Charles,Prisco 4-1599 
. ~egfri~L, .:....­. .M.ichaetVi/aJsb,, . A-4886
!.:,:aka~~ 
-·~ -0796 

. stariford " • ·Bob Chambef'S '#~4-2074 
. 
Walsh Rachel Gallardo 4-2685 

. 
Welsh Family Katie Prizio 4-1399 


. Zahm 
Paul DeSant 4-0912 


Day, Month, Year The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
csc 
C E N T E R F O R 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
CENTER 

FOR 
OCIAL 
1999-2000 DIRECTORY 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE SERVICE AND SOCIAL ACTION GROUPS 
This directory includes more than 30 Center-related student groups as well as some 40 community agencies seeking volunteers. The agencies in italics have Community-Based Learning Coordinators on site. Bolded type indicates groups that are student run organizations. For more information on any organization, see the description on the following two pages. 
ADDICTIONS 
YWCA Women's Shelter 
ADULT LITERACY 
Center for rhe Homele.,s 
Center for Bask Learning Skills Dismas House El Buen Vecino Literacy Council of St. Joseph County South Bend Community School, Adult Edt1calion 
St. Margaret's House YWCA Women's Shelter 
ADULT-Ol.DER 
MilronHome Meridian-Cardinal Nursing Center 
CHILDREN & YOUTH 
(Also see Tutoring) Big Brothen & Big Sisters Boys and Girls Club Broadway Christian Parish Casie Center Center for Social Concerns South Bend 
Soulh Bend Communily School, Partnership Center for the Homeless 
Center for the Homeless Children's Group Circle K International 
Council for Fun and Learning El Buen Vecino El Campito Day Care Center Head Start 
Helpful Undergraduate Students (H.U.G.S.) 
Home Managemelll Services Hugh O'Brien Youth Foundation Alumni Association Lunch P.A.C.K. Madison Center 
Manantial Ms. Wizard Day Program Team ND/SMC Campus Girl Scouts Neighborhood Study Help Program St. Hedwig's Outreach Center St. Margaret's House Student Tutorial Education Program 
South Bend Heritage Foundation 
YWCA Women's Shelter Special Friends 
SuperSibs 
University Young Life Youth Services Bureau 
CRIMINAL JUSTIC£ 
.. 
Amnesty Iniernationill Dismas House Legal Services Sex Offense Services 
Student Tutorial Education Program United Religious Community 
CULTURAL ISSUES 
Community Alliance to Serve Hispanics 
La Casa de Amis/ad 
Manantial 
South Bend Heritage Foundation 
DISABILITY SERVICES 
Best Buddies Camp Millhouse Corvilla Council for Fun and Learning 
Logan Center 
Logan Center (Council for the Retarded) Madison Center Reins ofLife Special Friends SupnSibs 
ENVtRONMENT 
~·oooshare Ret,yclin' Irish Student• for Environmental Action (SEA) 
HOUSING AND HOMnESSNESS 
Broadway Christian Parish 
Center for rhe Home/e . .s 
Center for the Homeless Children 1s Group 
Habitat for Humanity 
Hope Rescue Mission Project Warmth St. Margaret's House St. Vincent de Paul Salvation Anny 
South Bend Herituge FQundation 
YWCA Women's Shclrcr 
HUNGER CONCERNS 
FoodShare SI. Vincent de Paul Salvation Anny World Hunger Coalition 
MEDICAL 
AIDS Awareness/Students with Aids Training 
AIDS Ministries/ Aid, Assist 
American Cancer Society 
Center for rhe Homeless Chapin St. Clinic 
First Aid Services Team Harbor Lights Hospice Helpful Undergraduate Students (H.U.G.S.) Hospice Chapter, ND Hospice of St. Joseph County Memorial Hospital Medical Explorers Notre Dame Global Health Initiative St. Joseph's Chapin St. Healthcare 
MULTI-SERVICE GROUPS 
Arnold Air Society Catholic Charities 
Circle K International Community Alliance to Serve Hispanics Goodwill Industries of Michiana L'Esperanza 
Northeast Neighborhood Center 
Trident Naval Society 
World Hunger Coalition 
PEACE AND JUSTICE ISSUES 
Amnesty International Right ta Life World Hunger Coalition 
TUTORING 
(Also see Children & Youth) Big Brothen & Big Sisters 
Center for the Homeless 
Circle K International Council for Fun and Leaming 
El Buen Vecino 
La Casa de Amistad 
Neighborhood Study Help Program 
St. Hedwig's Outreach Center St. Margaret's House South Bend Juvenile Facility Student Tutorial Education Program (STEP) YWCA Women's Shelter Youth Service Bureau (Safe Station) 
WOMEN'S CONCERHS 
Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination 
Feminists fro Life Home Management Services 
Right to Life, ND/SMC 
St. Margaret"s House Sex Offense Services 
Student Advocates for Inclusive Ministry 
Women's Care Center YWCA Women's Shelter 
ONE TIME SERVICE OPPORTUNfflES 
Christn1as in April Circle K lnlernational Dismas House Habitat for Humanity Ms. Wizard Day Project Warmth Salvation Army St. Vincem de Paul 
PEACE AND JUSTICE 
Progressive Student Alliance Notre Dame Chapter of Pax Christi -USA 
Learning through Service and Social Action 

ONCERNS 


Celebrating the Jubilee 
A Year ofReconciliation and Renewal . 
As we approach the year 2000 and what our Catholic Church has deemed the "Jubilee Year," we at the Center for Social Concerns in collaboration with Campus Ministry and others, hope to educate the Notre Dame community on the "Jubilee Year." The "Jubilee," has roots from the Hebrew "tikkun" which means "to mend, to heal, to repair, to make right relationships again." 
According to the 

Jewish law, ''To bring glad tidings to each member every fifti­of the Notre
the poor.-c r,oclaim lib­
eth year was Dame com­
'\ . ,. -~ designated erty to c ----.. d recov-munity to as a Jubilee reflect seri­Year, a time ery of si -blind, to ously on our when the Jubilee tradi­
let the ·8 go free!' 
land was to tion and to lie fallow, 2 o"oj)_Luke 4: 18 respond to bonds, and debts ( especially financial ones). However, it also refers to for­giveness on both a personal and com­munal level. This includes all person­al relationships where hurt and divi­sion need to be healed by the peace of reconciliation, as well as humanity's sins against entire populations both now and throughout history. 
This next year is an extraordinary time in the history of our Church and 
our world. 
We hope for 
mortgage debts would be remitted, and slaves would be freed. The theo­logical meaning of the Jubilee was that all life and land belongs to God. The Catholic Church adopted the practice and since 1300 has celebrated Jubilee as times of repentance and renewal, specia1 blessings, prayers and pilgrimages. 
The scriptures of Leviticus 25, Isaiah 61, and Luke 4: 16-30 provide the core teachings and· essential pas­toral trnditions and practices of the Jubilee. The four themes of the Jubilee are: Let the Land Lie Fallow, Proclaim Liberty and Freedom, Answer the Call to Forgiveness, and Hold a Eucharistic Feast. 
The particular form of forgiveness that Jubilee emphasizes is release, remission or dismissal from obliga­tions tied to legal requirements, the Jubilee 

call. 

Beginning with Advent 1999, the CSC, Campus Ministry, and many of our service and social action student groups will be launching an educational and faith­based campaign on the Jubilee with particular emphasis on Jubi_lee themes and the principles of Catholic Social Teachings. The objective is to provide educational discourse around the Jubilee and to encourage the University community to carry reflec­tion on the Jubilee into appropriate action for justice initiatives, discern­ment, and prayer. 
Look for the Jubilee logo on upcom­ing events to find out more about how you can answer the Jubilee call: "To bring glad tidings to the poor .... to pro­claim liberty to captives and recovery of sight to the blind, to let the oppressed go free." (Lk 4: 18) 
"Education is not the filling ofa pail, but the lighting ofa fir<!.' 
-Yeats 
'' 

~~ne c  
li1csday, November 9, 1999  OTHE BSERVER  page 15  

ALBUM REVIEW 
311's new offering is 'down'-right horrible 
By BRIAN KORNMANN Scene Music Criiic 
StH·coss cam1\ fasl for :111 four ynars ago. With tlw releas,~ of its self'­titll'd studio album. :-ri 1 quir.kly went from playing 2,500 spat clubs to play­ing sold-out amphitlwatHrs and pack­agnd rork-fosts. Tlw band had a vMy uniqu1' sound. mixing punk, funk, rap and roggaH, and was embraced by 
311 


nearly everyone from major radio to MTV. The l'uture seemed very hright for the Omaha band. 
Four years later however, 311 has yet tn rncapture any nf the energy and sound that made thr,m so popular. Its fourth album, Transistor, was mediocrn at best, and its live album was quite possibly one of the worst albums ever recorded. It did a terrible job of capturing both the live energy and sound of a band ~1at was once fun lo sf'e in concert. · 
After two years of recording and a light tour schedule, 31 l is back on the sceno with its highly anticipated sixth sludio release, Soundsystem. Unfortunately, tho album leaves much to be dnsircd. In fact, it probably rates as the worst release from the once grPat band. 
Once upon a lime :n 1 was able to produce an album with original lyrics, bass lines and guitars. The vocal slylings ol' Nick llexum and S.A. Martinez fit the music perfectly. 
Yet the band has degraded into writing songs about buying a new computer and downloading software for it from the Internet ("Evolution"). So much for the idea that long term pot use is not bad for you. This album is nothing more than a complete rehash of' different parts of old 311 albums, with some beats and lyrics changed to protect the innocent. No songs on the album jump out and grab your attention like "Down," "Do You H.ight," "llomebrew" or "Freak Out" did on the CTrst three 311 albums. 
The hard edge that made 311 unique has instead been replaced 

with long, slowly developing songs such as "Freeze Time," "Evolution" and "Leaving Babylon." Instead of making listeners want to jump around and dance, these songs leave thorn with the sudden urge to fall asleep. On an ·album of 13 songs, there are only two songs that bear resemblance to any of 311 's old music. The songs "Mindspin" and ''Living' & Rockin' " are decent, but nothing more. 
Other than that, the album is miser­able at best, and downright horrible at worst. It will appeal to 311 fans who liked Transistor or enjoy tho lighter side of 311 found on songs like "Nix Hex" and "All Mixed Up." However, it is doubtful that people 

who liked the harder-edged :-111 found on Music, Grassroots or 311 would find Sound-system enjoyablo at all. If' new to 311, this is def'initoly not Urn record to buy; instead consider pur­chasing an earlier album. Thi's is a two-star album only because it evokes a feeling of pity for a band that was once good. Otherwise, it would have received fewer stars. 
;­
And yes. it is that bad. 
feedback. is welcome at Kornmann.J@nd.edu
·\AV'· 
CONCERT PREVIEW 
Notre Dame music faculty to perfom at the Snite 
Special to The Observer 
Carolyn Plumnwr lrnld the position ol' Assistant Cont:1\rtmastnr of' the I louston Symphony from 1977 through 198(,, al'ter joining thn orclrnstra in J!J74. Sill' was a l"rnquent soloist with tlw llouston Symphony, as well as an artivP rPritalisl and nwmlwr of the Ilousll;n chamlrnr 1\nsnmbln, Cambiala Soloists. i:rnm 198 <>-Info Box 
') 8 I) l'lumnwr was a profossor at . What: Faculty Cham­
1lw llnivPrsity 
ber Music Concert

of Florida and violinist or thP . Where: Annenburg Florida /\rls 
Auditorium, Snite 

Trio. During Museum of Art
this linw. slw 
appt•arncl with . When: Sunday, Nov. tlrn a1Tlainwd 
14 at 2 p.m.

c Ii a Ill b <' r n 11 s 1• m b I ., . Tickets: $3-10, avail­AL la 11 I a 
able at LaFortune Box 

Virtuosi. whirl! 
Office or charge by

pPrformPd 1\xt,·nsiv1dy in phone at 631 ·8128 
tlw U.S., I•: 11 ,.opP a II d MPxil'o. In tlw ,·.ours,\ ol' lwr caronr. 
l'lumnH'r 1wrl'ornwd in scvNal l'estivals and 111ast1\r classes. both in thn C.S. and abroad. l'lunurn•r ru1-rt>nlly Stll'Vt!S on lltt• 1•:ditorial CommitlPP of tlw AmNican l\.lusir .Journal. tlH' official journal of thc Musir Tcaclwrs National /\ssoriation. 
l'h1111111,•r holds a badwlor of Music: rl1•g1·1•1\ from Indiana UnivPrsity and a Mast,..-of'. Music (kgrcP with honors in Vilon l'nrformance rrnm llrn Nnw 1•:ngland ConsPrvatory, wlwrn she was a 
student of Joseph Silverstein and Charles Treger. She is an assocfate pro­fessor of music at the University of Notre Dame. 
Karon Buranskas is a critically acclaimed cellist who has appeared as a soloist with orchestras in thn United States and BraziL In addition, she has performed recitals in major concert halls in the United States (including 
. Carnogie llalll. Europe, Japan and Taiwan, and has been a featurnd soloist on National Public Hadio and CBC broadcasts. During the past few years, slrn has been a gunsl artist at the Fontana Chamber Music Festivals and was also a l'natured soloist on the Dame Myra Iless Concert Series in Chicago. In tl1e course of her career, Buranskas has won S(\Veral awards, including rirsl prizes and top honors, and she has hewn recrmtly awarded a Solo Bccitalist grant by the National Endowment !'or the Arts in Washington, D.C., to record twentieth-cnntury solo works for cello. 
Buranskas received a Bacholor of Music degree from Indiana lJnivnrsity wlrnre sl11• st.udied under Fritz Magg and Janos Stark11r, and a Master of Music dngreo from Yale University. undnr t1rn coaching ol' Aldo Parisot. She is a11 assuciate professor of music al the University. 
Plumnwr and Buranskas, as members or tlrn Notre Dame String Trio, gavn tlrnir Nnw York rlPbut performanen to critical acclaim at the Weill llndlal Ilall at Carnegie llall, playing compositions f'rom the 20th century. They harn been working with Contaur Records, record­ing works by Nntrn Dame faculty mem­ucr Ethan Ilaimo, ,is well us the two llindernith String Trios rnleascd in 1997. A year later, the Trio rncordcd works by David Diamond, which will be 
;,­
-
rclnascd soon. 
Maria Stiiblein studied with Erich 
Appol at the Meistersinger­Knnservatorium Niirnberg and with Bernhard Ebert and Arie Vardi at. the llnchschulo fiir Musik und Theater llannovcr, where she graduated with tlrn Konzerltixamen in 1996. In addition she attended master classes with llans ·Leygraf, LHV Naumow, Leon Fleisher, and Gytirgy Sobok. In 1985, she won first prize at the International Competition of the 33rd European Music festival in Neerpelt. Belgium. Sim also received prizes and awards at tho Wcttbewerb der Konservatorien in 

Osnabriick, Germany; thn Iln,:hsch u­
wnttbewerb llannover, Gnrmany; and 
the International Pianocompotition 
Citla di Senigallia. Italy. Slw has playnd 
numerous performances in Canada, the U.S., Greecii, Italy, Spain, Switz<wland, .. 
Austria, and Cormany, and has appnared al tho ronownnd Schleswig• llolstcin-Musikf'estival. tlw Acadf\miP Maurice Havel, and the Tage fur N1\U!! Musik llannovnr. Sho has rPcordnd l'or Radio Brenrnn, NDH (Norddnutsclwr Hundf'unk). and WCLV. Stiibloin joins 
tho !'acuity of tho Univorsity of' Notre 
Damo this year as a visiting assistant 
prol'essor. 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, November 9, 1999 

NCAA FOOTBALL 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. 

Purdue quarterback Drew Brees, insisting he cari improve with another year in college, will stay for his senior season. 
The 1-leisman Trophy con­tender announced his decision on campus Monday after a meeting Sunday with his par­ents and coach Joe Tiller. 
"It's better for most people, including myself. to stay anoth­er year," Brees said. "An extra year will provide me with a bit more maturity. I know that I can become a better player by staying another year." 
Brees said he wanted to make the decision as soon as possible to dispel rumors about his future and end debate about his plans for the NFL draft. 
"It really wasn't as hard as I thought it would be," he said. ''I'm coming back next year to have fun." 
The Boilermakers (6-4) are coming off a loss to Wisconsin, a game billed as a showdown 
between two Heisman Trophy contenders Brees and Badgers running back Ron Davne. 
Brees has thrown for 3,334 yards and 21 touchdo~vns through 10 games. The Boilermakers are off this week­end and dose their season Nov. 20 at Indiana. 
"I think next year we have a chance to do a lot of great things with this football team," he said. "I still feel that there's a lot of things to do here." 
Brees said he does not think about winning the Heisman Trophy, and the prospect of becoming a favorite for the honor next season did not factor into his decision. 
Tiller called Brees one of the most productive players he's ever coached. 
"His return just makes our goals a little more achievable," he said. 
Brees, meanwhile, is more at ease. 

Heavily Doctored Photo Originally Courtesy of AFP 
Happy Birthday Michelle! 
With Love from all of The Observer staff 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3-p.m.· AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES  Free One Bedroom Apartment near Campus A family with three children seeks  WALK TO SCHOOL http://mmmrentals.homepage.com 232-2595 or mmm.rentals@aol.com  TICKETS  Two Boston College tickets needed call Tom 4-4853 Selling 2 Pitt tickets  STUDENT WORK Vector Marketing Corp. is now filling pit cust. sales & service positions. Flex. around class.  
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center PHONE 631-COPY  fun.energetic student or graduate to live in charming apartment for FREE in exchange for mutually  4-6 student rental houses. Lots of extras. Huge Party Room  WANTED NOTRE DAME FOOT­BALL TICKETS 271-1526  call Tim 4-4853  Transfers avail. over breaks. $10.55 base-appt. Good resume exp. scholarships awarded, cond.  
www.CopyShopND.com Store Hours Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight  agreeable babysitting responsibili­ties.Fax name.phone # and brief note describing experience and  Washer/Dryer, etc. Dave 291-2209.  SELL & BUY GA FOOTBALL TICK­ETS  PERSONAL  apply. call mon-wed 12:30-5:30pm 282-2357  
Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm Sat Noon-6:00pm Sun: N_oon-Midnight WANT TO LEARN ABOUT THE LAW? ND Law School needs volunteers to be jurors in mock trials on Dec. 4 & 5. Staff, faculty and students are welcome. Please call Gloria  interests to Walker at 233-2308. gmbid.com is a pre IPO start-up luxury auction web site, pioneered by Georges Marciano, the founder of Guess? Jeans. We are looking for a part time campus representa­tive to join us in arranging local pro­motions, PR, giveaways, e-mail campaigns, sponsorships, etc. Must  FOR SALE Spring Break Specials!Bahamas Party Cruise 5 Days $2791 Includes Meals' Awesome Beaches,Nightlife!Cancun & Jamaica 7 Nights From S399' Florida  277-6619 FOR SALE BC & EL TON JOHN tix. Best Prices AM -232-2378 PM · 288-2726 ND Football !ix BOUGHT & SOLD  Quality Copies, Quickly! We're open early, late, & weekends. THE COPY SHOP Lafortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY Quality Copies, Quickly!  Michelle is finally twenty and one Now she can actually have some fun. Hangin' with M'Shan at the 'Backer, Goin' with P-tel to get laquered, No longer too young to keep up with Logan, Dancing around 'Iii things get bro­ken.  
..  Krull at 631-6860 to sign up. LOST & FOUND Lost: earring, silver and amathyst, sentimental value. Oct. 13 between DeBartolo, stadium parking lot, and Decio, 233-8672 WANTED  be interested in marketing, a self­starter, fun, and a team player. Please email resumes to: reps@gmbid.com Wheelchair-bound woman seeks long-term wkend help tor housewrk, errands. yardwrk. Avg Hrs 4-8 / wkend @ $7/hr. Day & time nego­tiable. Call Linda@ 219-273-7045 or 616· 663-2573  $129!springbreaktravel.com 1 ·800-678-6386 FOR SALE N.D. FOOTBALL TIX CALL 271-9412 FOR SALE N.D. FOOTBALL TIX CALL 271-9412 Phone Cards 669min. $20  AM -232-2378 PM -288-2726 FOR SALE N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS CALL 271-9412 WANTED: 4 Tenn. Tix 312-951·5008 EL TON JOHN TICKETS 272-7233 GOOD SEATS ......  Spring Break 2000 Free Trips & Meals. Jamaica,Cancun,Bahamas,Barbad os,Florida,Padre.Book now for Free Meals & 2 Free Trips.Book before Dec. 17 for LOWER PRICES!! 1800-426-7710 www.sunsplashtours.com  Now she is finally free to imbibe, She can join the Heartland tribe. We're glad Michelle has reached legality, And hope she has "lost touch with reality." (Yeah, you try poetry in the middle of the night) Hey Erin, how's it going? Hope you're having a good day Bye!!!!!!!!  
Loving ND-SMC couple wisbes to adopt.Will provide a lifetime of laughter.love.devotion and opportu­nities. 800-484-4699 code 0019 To our 4am inquirer: all info kept in  FOR RENT ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE HOME FOR ND-SMC EVENTS.  243-9361 or 258-4805 Beautiful brass bed, queen size, with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe frame. New, never used, still  I NEED BC TIX! GA QR REGULAR! 634-2595  Funky GOURDS Three tor a dollar!! Fun imaginative shapes ..  Hi Emily Snow. Divorce Billy, Georgia! Go for partner!  
total confidence.Please call back anytime.Our prayers are with you.  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 243-0658.  _in plastic. $235 219-862-2082  NEED 2 ND-Pitt tickets. Call John 634-2795  Happy Birthday Michelle Hope you had a good night  


~---~-----------------~ -~/~---­
' I 

Tuesday, November 9, 1999 The 06server . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
..
HAMMES 

NO'llffi D 

...
BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
-

20o/ooff All Notre Dame 

Clothing and Gift Items* 


www.ndcatalog.com 

*Student ID Required. 
*Does not include books, CD'S, tapes, school and office supplies, computer supplies, art supplies. 


\ 
I' 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, November 9, 1999 
VOLLEYBALL 

Girton named Big East player of week 
Special to The Oberver 

Junior Christi Girton has been named Big East Player of the Week for her strong per­formances in Notre Dame's two matches last week. 
Girton led the Irish in kills and in digs in the team's wins over Illinois State and Syracuse. Against the Redbirds. Girton had 19 kills to go along with a season-best 14 digs. On Saturday after­noon versus the Orangewomen, the 6-3 outside hiLter tallied 19 kills and 13 
.... 
HOCKEY 

Zasowski earns CCHA rookie of week honors 
Speci..J to The Obsorver 

The Notre Dame hockey team produced its second CCHA rookie-of-the-week winner in the past three weeks, as fresh­man goaltender Tony Zasowski was recognized on Nov. 1 for his strong series last week ver­sus Miami University. 
Zasowski made 58 saves in the Miami series while allowing just four goals. He helped stop all 14 Miami power plays in the series and turned away the first 
... 
digs. for her third consecutive double-double. Girton also extended her streak of conscc­utivn match11s with at least 10 kills to six. 
For the week, Girton aver­aged 5.43 kills per game on .439 hitting and 3.86 digs per game. She joins three-time winner senior Mary Leffers as the only Irish players so hon­ored this season. 
The Irish (16-6 overall, 9-0 in the Big East) finish Big East regular season play this week­end when they travel to Villanova and Georgetown. 
19 shots he faced on Thursday (en route to 33 total saves), with 34 shutout minutes. 
Zasowski-who this week will return became the first fresh­man to start in net for the Irish since Matt Eisler made his first career start in the second game of 1994-95. 
Zasowski faced a steady stream of shots in his first start (12-11-12 by period) while turning away eight power-play shots in that 5-2 win on Oct. 28 (MU was O-for-8 on the power play in first game) . 
Please Recycle The Observer 

Brought to you by the Class of2000 Council 
-
Tuesday, November 9, 1999 page 19
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
I 

FORTUNE
10~,. ~n 
Tl WIii FBI 

J_magine looking forward to the week as much as you look forward to the weekend. Imagine spending each minute with unlimited opportunity and continuous options. At Ernst & Young we provide access to the most sophisticated and effective tools in the industry. See you Monday. www.ey.com 
.,. 
.. 

... 
@1999 ERNST & YOUNG LLP 
r 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, November 9, 1999 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Knott advances to chainpionship with 7-0 overtiine win 
By JASON KROMPINGER Spores Wricer 
It was a fitting end for the scrappy Fisher squad that had in the previous week toppled a No. l seed in order to earn the spot on the field against Knott to fight for a spot in the Men's 
c h a m P i -lnterhall 
onship game. Semifinals 
A tough Knott 7 defensive display by Fisher 0 
both squads throughout the entire game forced two overtimes, but in the end Knott pulled out a 7-0 victory by scoring in the sec­ond OT and knocking away a pass on Fisher's last attempt to sPal the victorv. 
"Our team is ~eally up right now," Knott quarterback Mario Suarez said. ''We're excited to be playing in the stadium for the championship next week." 
The stalemate that the game would turn out to be was apparent from the first few possessions of the game by either team. The Green Wave picked up a first down on their first play from scrimmage, but after two drives earned them six yards, they were stuffed on the next play and were forced to punt. 
Knott went three and out on their first possession, as did Fisher on their next attempt at a drive. 
Once the Juggernauts had the ball in their hands on their second drive, they could not move it anywhere consistently because of a barrage of penal­ti es against the offense. A draw by Suarez on first down for a good gain was called back due to a clip. That made it first-and-15. A dead ball foul against Knott's 0-Line pushed the ball back five more yards, for lst-and-20. 
The offense seemed to find a rhythm on the next four plays, but penalties and incomplete passes ended up stalling the drive. 
Things began to get sloppy later in the half. After Fisher recovered a Knott fumble, Fisher fumbled themselves on their second play. Fisher got the ball back after they picked off a Knott pass. 
"Our corners, especially Terry McKclroy and Jim Coven, played great," said Suarez. 
The half ended with the coaches shaking their heads. 
The second half began with the teams trading punts, and in fact no drivP. throughout the entire second half got either team into the other's red zone. It wasn't until the start of overtime, when the ball was placed at the opponents' 10 and each team gets a chance to score, had either team been that close to the end zone. 
Fisher started off with the ball in OT, and after three plays turned up no yards, a field goal attempt was· 
blocked. On Knott's try, a run pass from Suarez to Smith in zipped it to his man in the by Virtue picked up five yards the corner of the end zone. front corner of the end zone. to bring them to the five-yard The extra point was good. As the ball touched the hands line, but he was stuffed on the forcing Fisher to score to force of the receiver, two Knott next play and lost the yards he a third OT. defenders hammered him, jar­had just gained. Third down But a Fisher run was ring the ball loose and to the went for minimal gain, and stopped cold on first down, a grass. the field goal attempt sailed keeper gave them five, and a The 'Nauts emerged victori­wide left to force a second broken· up option put the ous and look forward to a overtime. Green Wave in a do-or-die showdown with the Sorin 
Knott started with the ball fourth and five. Quarterback Otters in Notre Dame Stadium and promptly scored on a TD Zack Allen rolled right and next week. 


H·OMES FOR RENT 
-Domus Properties' has two, five, six, and nine bedroom student housing available 
-Student neighborhoods close to 
campus -Security systems provided -Well maintained homes -Maintenance staff on call 
Available for the 2000/200 I school year BETTER HURRY!!! ONLY S HOUSES LEFT 
Contact Kramer (219)274-1501 or (219)234-2436 or (219)674-2572 
-

Join us for an Information meeting 
Thursday, November 11 LaFortune Ballroom 
ACE Charleston

7:00 
Ryan Blaney, Lisa Rodriguez, Malin Steams Mark Leen, and Jim Steffan 
.. 
I want to be a teacher for many reasons. I want to educate, both in and out of the classroom. I want to be a role model, a coach, a listener, a learner . 
I want to challenge my students to do their very best in all phases of their lives, and I ask nothing less of myself. 
Brian Dillon, Baton Rouge, LA 
Clare Deckelman, Montgomery, AL 
The Alliance for Catholic Education 
... 

The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, November 9, 1999 


Countdown to 

J2K@ND: 
52 days 

i) 112 Badin Hall 631-5242 0103 Hesburgh Library 631-7800 ~email ministry.1@nd.edu fi)11web www.nd.edu/~ ministry 
This Week in Campus Ministry 
Monday. November 8 through Monday November 29 103 Hesburgh Library, 112 Bodin Hall Freshman Retreat #26 (Dec. 3-4) Sign-Up 
T orgeted Dorms: Carroll, Cavanaugh, Farley, Fisher. Knott, Pangborn, Siegfried, Stanford, and Welsh Family 
Tuesday-Wednesday. November 9-10, 7:00 pm 218 Main Building Africentric Spirituality Career Night for Juniors and Seniors 
Co-sponsored with OMSA 
Tuesday. November 9, 7:00 pm Badin Hall Chapel Campus Bible Study 
Wednesday. November 10, 8:00 pm Wilson Commons Graduate Student Bible Study Group 
Wednesday. November 10. l0:00-10:30 pm Walsh Hall Chapel Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
A spirit-filled, student-led power half hour of prayer and music for students of all Christian faith traditions. 
Friday-Sunday. November 12-14 Sunse Lodge in Michigan El Retiro Retreat 
Jubilee Theme: Answer the Call to Forgiveness 
Give yourself a Jubilee gift
As the Jubilee Year 2000 quickly approaches, let's pause to think about one of the central themes of the Jubilee: forgiveness. Forgiveness is what sustains and strengthens our relationships in a world often characterized by flawed communication, painful alienation and broken trust. As Christians, we are called to forgive others as God first forgave us. The reality of that call is easier said than done. Forgiveness is not a simple feat It requires us to commit to a difficult process that takes significant time and effort on our part. Ultimately, though, forgiveness is a gift to ourselves, a gift of personal freedom. Below is a summary of the process of forgive­ness. As we prepare to celebrate 2000 years of Jesus, how might we answer the Jubilee call to forgiveness in our own lives? 
•Aclfnowledge 
the hUlt and the pain. Admitting the hurt is often difficult but it is a necessary beginning point. 

• 
Maise a decision to forgive. This is an act of will and may be contrary to the feelings which flow from the hurt. At the beginning you may not know how you will forgive but only that you desire to forgive. 

• 
Remember that forgiveness Is a process. Hurt, whether physical or psychological, takes time to heaL Be patient with yourself. 


• Forgiveness Involves a "small death" to 

ourselves. It is not easy, nor is it pleasant. 
• Reflect on those who have modeled forgiveness for you. Can you identify the source of their courage to forgive? 
• Visualize the positive aspects of the person who has offended you. Attempt to 
understand the behavior of the other. Try to experience compassion for them. 
• Recall a time when you were forgiven and the 
gratitude you experienced. Recall how affirming it was to know someone believed in you and cared enough to forgive you. 
• 
Consider the consequences of not forgiving. Reflect on the short-and long-term physiological,_spiritual and emotional effects this will have on you. 

• 
Asif God's help for the courage to forgive. Do not assume that you will automatically forget but be patient with yourself and await God's assistance. 

• 
Celebrate the grace which has empowered you to bring about this Christ-f/1/ed moment. Too often we fail to include celebration in the process. 


Adapted from "Forgiveness: A Millenium Gift" by Br. Lm,ghlan Sofield, S.J. & Sr. Carroll Ju/ia,w, S.H.C.J., /99R. 
Mmm, Good...and Good for you! 
All are welcome to become a member ofthe 
Basilica Christmas Choir 1999! 
Rehearsals for the Basilica Christmas Choir will be held in Room 102, Earth Science Building, located directly behind the Basilica. 
The rehearsal schedule is as follows: •Monday, November 29, 7 PM -8:30 PM •Monday, December 6, 7 PM -8:30 PM •Monday, December 13, 7 PM -8:45 PM •Monday, December 20, 7 PM -8:45 PM •Friday, December 24, 9:30 PM -10:45 PM Advent Lessons & Carols begins at 11 :00 PM. Midnight Mass follows. 
Any questions, please call Andrew McShane, 631-5242 
FREE M&Ms! 
AII-U-Can-Ea1t All Colors! 
Limited Time Only! 
M&Ms must be claimed during the hours of 
12pm-2pm Central Indiana time in O'Hara Lounge of the LaFortune Student Center (located next 
to info desk in that little room behind the tall glass doors where that guy sells his water color paintings on football weekends.) No purchase necessary. Void where prohibited. Some friendly conversation with Campus Ministers in lounge may be required prior to 
claiming of aforementioned M&Ms. For M&Ms by mail, send a SASE to 112 Badin Hall c/o "I want my CM M&Ms". Be sure to include your name, email address & specify amount and colors de~ired. Offer good while supplies last. 
Act Nowt Brina Frllendst 
.., 
.. 
WC ­
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, November 9, I 999 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Pyros shutout Chaos in semifinal, 7-0 
By STEVE KEPPEL 
Sports W ricer 
When Pyros of Pasquerilla Fast prnpared to take on the Cavanaugh Chaos in the inter­hall playoffs they knew it would be 
a tough Women's 
game. 
lnterhall

The 4­2 Chaos Semifinals came out Pasqueril!a East 7 
fired up 
and shut Cavanaugh 0 down the Pyros for the entire first half. Their hopes for a championship bid were dashed when Pyros scored a touchdown late in the game and won 7-0. 
This earned PE an unprece­dented fifth straight trip to the stadium, 
The first half was all defense as both offenses failed lo put any points on the board. Cavanaugh's defense played especially well and confused the PE offense with a mix of coverage on our defense." she said. 
In the second half the tough defensive play contin­ued and the game remained scoreless until there were only 5 minutes left to play. PE got the ball with good field position after a short punt by Cavanaugh. After tough scrambles by Plummer, the Pyros were deep in Chaos ter­ritory. A fow penalties and dropped passes later, the Pyros faced fourth-and-goal from the 20-yard line. Plummer dropped back. avoided the rush. and lofted a fade into the corner of the endzone that was caught by receiver Molly Rost in the midst of two Cavanugh defenders. 
"Molly had a little height advantage and I just lofted it up to give her a chance to go after it," Plummer said. 
Pasquerilla East, lead by Plummer and their upper­classman, will take its unde­feated record and play for a third-straight championship title in the stadium. 
"This is 
what you work 
packages "This is what you for all year and a strong and it is my
work for all year. " 
rush on the last time there quarter­and hopefully back. Elizabth Plummer we'll go out on " T h e y a winning
PE quarterback 
"

played a man/zone and their ends were really coming hard all game," Pasquerilla East quarterback Elizabeth Plummer said. 
The Pyros defense, often overshadowed by their high scoring offense, was the key to victory on Sunday. 
"We really couldn't get the ball moving, their secondary n o t e 
Plummer said. 
Cavanaugh's season is over but the Chaos are a verv young team and will have a solid squad next year if most of their underclassmen return. 
"We are really excited that the season went as well as it did, in the beginning we struggled but we really came 
VOLLEYBALL 


NELLIE WILLIAMS/The Observer 
Suzanne Martin (6) sets the ball to Jayne Ozbolt (left) in Saint Mary's 3-1 victory over Kalamazoo in the quarterfinals of the MIAA Tournament. 
Flying Butch soar to 3-0 win 
By KATIE McVOY 
Sports Writer 
The Belles volleyball team fol­lowed the trend of the rest of Saint Mary's fall sports; They had an eX:ceptional season, played a tough final game in the playoffs, and could not quite get the championship. 
Saint Mary's ended its season with a 3-0 loss to Hope College during the semifinal round of the MIAA Tournament this weekend. 
The Flying Dutch were ranked second going into the semifinals and the Belles knew they were in for intense compe­tition. 
After defeating Kalamazoo to advance to the semifinals, Saint Mary's head coach Randa Shields began thinking about Hope. 
"Going into Friday [against Hope]. we have to focus on them being any other team, not Hope," Shields said. "We have to play our game against them." 

Despite losing the first game 15-13, the second game 15-10 and the third game 15-7, senior captain and 1998 all-MlAA member Agnes Bill felt the Relles met their goal. 
"For being the end of the sea­son, I think we played the best we played all season," Bill said. "Going into it, we knew it was going to be a real competitive match, but we definitely played at their level and I think the scores show that." 
Hope is a powerhouse in all of its athletics, but especially in volleyball. The Flying Dutch were the MIM volleyball cham­pions in 1996, 1997 and last season, 1998. 
When asked what makes Hope such a dominating pres­ence on the volleyball court, Bill said she thought it was their offensive play. 
"They have a very strong offense," Bill said. "They're 
smart and quick, which made our defense have to react faster. lt was our defense that kept us in the game, however." · Coach Randa Shields came in to her fist year as head coach hoping to make a good showing this year in the MIAA. Saint Mary's finished the season with a 5-3 record and a third place tie in the MIAA. 
Bill thought that a big part of the new energy and excitement that seemed to follow the Belles' season was due to the new coaching. 
"[Our successful season] was due to a new coaching staff," she said. "Randa and Lorelee [Smith, assitant coach] did a great job coaching, and brought a lot of new ideas to the team." 
A positive attitude and a desire to win affected the team as well, according to Bill. 
"We all wanted to be there," she said. "We all had the desire to play at the same level al! sea­son." 
played really well," Cavanaugh captain and offen­sive lineman Melisa Tacey said. 
Plummer gave the Pyros defense due credit in their victory. 
"Our defense was crucial, we depend a lot on them-and sometimes the offense gets more credit but we really rely together as a team," Tacey said. "We credit it all to the coaches. They did a great job." 
The Pyros will take on the Welsh Whirlwinds, who defeated the top-seeded Pangborn Phoxes, in two weeks. The Pyros beat them convincingly in their first meeting earlier this season. 
The Native American Student Association of Notre Dame, as a part of 
NATIVE AMERICAN HERITJIGE WEEK ~99 
presents: 

Native American Flute Player: 
Michael Lacapa 
Tuesday, November 9th, 1999 
7:30 -8:30, Lafortune Ballroom 
ATTENTION 
.UNDERGRADUATE AND GRADUATE 

STUDENTS 
WORLDWIDE 
ENTER.COM 
PURSUE JOB 
AND INTERNSHIP 
OPPORTUNITIES 
THAT SPAN 
THE GLOBE 
. . 
. . 
I', 

Native American Comedian: 
''Drew'' Lacapa 
Wednesday, November I0th 1999 
7:00 -8:30, Lafortune Ballroom 
Dreamcatcher and Beading Workshops 
Thursday, November I I th 7:00 -8:00 p.m. 
INTERCULTURAL CENTER 
'\ mpusCareerCenter.com
~. The world~ largest campus job lair 
As a part of OMSJl's Lecture/fine_ Jlrts Series' 
"LEADERSHIP IN DIVERSITY: RECOGNIZING OUR ROLE MODELS" 

page 23 
The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, November 9, 1999 
...._,,,­
WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Notre Dame earns fifth seed in NCAA Tournament 
By KEVIN BERCHOU 
Sports Wm~r 
Thn road to the NCAA soccer drnmpionships in San .lose, Calif., will be a bit toughor than anlicipallid for the Notre Dame 
Wllinl'll. 
While the Irish wcrn hoping to bn assigned one of tho top four sPeds, which would have 1msurcd home field advantage through tho quarterlinals, the Irish instead arc seeded !1fth, 
~el~ here I,m -everythino in the world 11.;11111,l:li(J ~;:;~~~~u.~.,f~:wnz!:,:.;•"""'that Im not goinq to be 
a ru just take my MBA th1ml: you 1'1',Y moch and put it to "se somepl.a.c.e_w~ere they at least know what they're doing 
and want me"'do ii with '"'"'·llll'J""11not Oftl.y rolerate but actuallvf9(ffi''fP:GJmy doing it my wayANO help me gain 1111 edge AND ..........,"-°" how far I con go and perhaps see that what droveme to POPoff in clas, so much was really just an 
expreSsionofmy CREATIVE DRIVE. Wl!\Jldn't that be ~ITt>at? 
&HSIMIMnPii4to ask is it?ii 
ll'lflYC"UnlLMIAY 
YetJ,\SWfCl•.IU~fNf !ilfTI!tG l~ffOC.OIJD.ll 
ti ~ WU'I, rHt .,m,WE 00, !Hf um~fClUW'RlbO 
llliYl'tl01tUIJWJl!t~f1' 
f'tU.SfC0/111 

"'Oil AIOl/T JNf HlG( PIIOGAAN: 
JUf50.W.51rTT'"'l'll, 
fl01'1'6:00-MIOl'M, 
CtlMICIOHIMI, 
•uuw•m~n11101r 
IINIVfl'Stnl!U,fflHIS 
¦ hUMIJAJUttl: 

Ll~WEST 1@ 
,,,..s benH h9n. I :::::::::. 
S~SJE1RVIl<ClE J?JRO]JECTS 
Information meeting: 
November 10 (Wed.) 
7:00 PM 
at the Center for Social Concerns 
Enjoy birthday cake as we celebrate the 20th Anniversary of the Andrews Scholarship Fund & the SSPs 
• 
find out how you can spend 8 weeks in a social service agency and earn a tuition scholarship and 3 credits 
• 
--expand your education 
-meet people struggling with social injustices 
-meet wonderful alumni/e hosts 
_;,l\Ssoc-.. 
:::~~ .•{,.,::.

c,,.,r• ~o• -0
< • :::i

SOCIAL 
CONCERNS NOTRE DAME 
meaning t.hcy will potentially face a tough quarterfinal oppo­nent on the road. 
Undcfoatcd Santa Clara, which bested Notre Dame in a game played earlier this sea.son, is seeded lirst, followed by North Carolina, defending champion florida and Nebraska. 
It is tho decision to seed Nebraska ahead of the Irish that somo people are questioning. 
''I thought maybe we were a little better than them," said Notre Dame head coach Randy Waldrum...But you can never know how the selection commit­tee ihinks." 
Coach Waldrum was quick to note that he was not entirely disappointed in not being seed­ed among the top four. 
"I have mixed feelings.'' he added. " We were a little disap­pointed at not being fourth, because having played both Santa Clara and North Carolina, I thought our schedule may have been iougher than [Nebraska's). On the other hand, 
I like our draw." 
The draw to which Waldrum refers has the Irish, who like the rest of the top 16 seeds have a first J"QUnd bye, taking on the win ­ner of ihe game played between Dayton and Evansville Wednesday night. The winner will play the Irish. at Alumni Field, in a game to be contested this 
weekend. 
Though the lrish will likely play a quarterfinal game on the road in Nebraska, a Cornhusker in the second or third round loss would give Notre Dame home-field advantage through the quar­terfinal round of' play, 
"We can't look too far ahead," said Waldrum. "We need to focus on our game this weekend," 
The seeding for the tourna­ment is done in an somewhat objective manner. The field consists of 48 teams, 24 of' which have received auto­matic bids, with the remain­der being tabbed by the selection committee. When drawing up the brackets, the committee considers factors 

Welsh 
continued from page 28 
but still held a comfortable 12-0 lead. 
Welsh displayed a consistent intensity throughout the game and showed that the 7 a,m. practice they had during the preceding week definitely paid off with a solid performance, The youth that characterizes the team is starting a tradition of dominating play for a dorm that has only been in exis­tence for three years. 
"We are ecstatic," Welsh coach Dave DePoister said. "We set this as a goal ... and our girls played their butts off." 
The BP offense put in a steady offensive attack, led by Choi and receivers Erin West and Kelly Landers, but they simply could not cross the 
7 

Saint Mary's College Apowerful drama based on tt,e 
(. 
actual VietnaJ71 War experien~s of six American women 
Thursday -Saturday November 11 -13 .at 8 p.m. 
Sunday, November 14 
at2:30 p.m. 
Little Theatre 
Box Office at 
284-4626 


goal line, 
Although the season did not end how the Bairns wanted it to, the team had a very suc­cessful year. 
"The general feeling was we were disappointed because everyone played really well," BP captain Katie Leicht said. "On the whole we were pleased with the season." 
Welsh ran the clock out at the end of the game to seal a surprising victory and began to celebrate. 
In two weeks the Whirlwinds will get the oppor­tunity to earn their team its first championship title ever. But for now, the Whirlwinds are enjoying their semifinal win, and praising the defense for the team's success. 
"We are pretty excited," Welsh quarterback and co­captain Katie Hak said. "Our defense definitely won the game for us." 
such as win-loss record, strength of schedule, and record against common opponents. Opinions of the committee mem­bers do come into the decisions. 
Though it's not certain why the Irish were not included among the top four seeds, it's likely the committee thought 

... 
Nebraska's rncord that fnatured but one loss carried more weight that the Notre Dame's difficult schedule that saw the Irish lose threr. games. 
"We have to live with it," said Coach Waldrum. "We'll be gct­ting,.ready to play this week­end. 


page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, November 9, 1999 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
.Sorin returns to title game for third straight time 
By KEVIN BERCHOU Spon Writer 

For the Sorin Otters the journey is almost complete. 
After losing interhall's championship game each of the past two seasons, the Otters 
e n s u r e d Men's thernseh-es a chance at lnterhall 

vindication, Semifinals knocking off Sorin 12 
the Siegfried 
R a m b .I e r s Siegfried a 12-0, and gaining 

another chance to play for the crown that has just barely eluded them. The Otters will face the Juggernaught of Knott in two weeks, the very team that handed them their only defeat in an otherwise flawless campaign. 
Sorin looked lik~ a team on a mission, handling Siegfried in surprisingly easy fashion. The outcome of the game was in doubt only during the gamP.'s coin toss. As soon as the indomitable Otter offense gained possession, the game was, for all intents and pur­poses over. 
Sorin scored on its very first series, advancing the ball in the same fashion as they had all year. They passed, and then they passed some more. Unflappable senior quarter­back Luke Beuerlein hit wide­out Antoine Tobias on a quick slant to get the drive started, and then proceeded to attack the Ramblers with the deep ball. Just two plays later, Beucrlcin arched a perfect throw in the direction of his favorite target, frnshman wide receiver Greg Carney, who came down with the ball for a gain of 28 yards. 
After another short comple­tion to Tobias, Beuerlein again attacked the Siegfried sec­ondary. This time the Otter quarterback locked in on Carney, despite the fact that he was triple covered, and threw his way. Carney some­how managed to break free of 
CLUB SPORTS 

Water polo team finishes seventh 
Special to The Observer 

Playing for the first time ever in both an outdoor pool and a national championship venue, the Men's Water Polo team fin­ished seve1,1th nationally in Tucson this weekend. 
Drawing number two seed Richmond in the opening round overmatched, by the narrowest of margins. The Spiders were a varsity program last year, and are still comprised of scholar­ship athletes. A valiant effort fell short as the Irish were unable to protect their 2-1 lead, falling 3-2. As he has all season, Matt McNicholas led the Irish as he fired both shots that found the back of the net. In the next round the Irish overwhelmed Western Illinois 8-0. 
Due to a schedule quirk, the Irish were the only team to have to play a third game on Saturday, and a depleted team fell to Michigan State 6-2. The Spartans had defeated defend­
-
ing national champion Michigan in the Big 10 tourna­ment to earn their spot in the nationals. 
On Sunday, the Irish played an exceptional game in outlast­ing a fired up Cadet squad from West Point, defeating Army 9-6. Cal Poly won the tournament, edging Richmond in the finals. The best showing in Notre Dame history bodes well for the future, as only two starters graduate this year. 
Ultimate Frisbee 
The Ultimate Club's women were in action this weekend, compiling a 3-1 record at the Oberlin Invitational. The team swept through intercollegiate action, defeating Northwestern 9-4, Indiana 11-3, and Oberlin 12-5. The lone blemish came in a loss to a combined team of Purdue and adult club players. With regular season play com­ing this spring, the Irish have served notice they will be one of the midwest's top programs. 
One Night Wiffleball 
ROLFS SPORTS RECREATIO 
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 11 
REGISTER YOUR TEAM IN THE RECSPORTS OFFICE 
SPACE IS LIMITED 

DEADLINE TO REGISTER IS WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, OR UNTIL FULL 

For more information, please call the RecSports Office at 1-6l 00 
Siegfried's Johnny Interhall and snare the ball for a 25­yard touchdown that gave his team a 6-0 lead. 
The ensuing extra point attempt failed. 
"He just threw it up there and I caught it," Carney said. Kit was a big play." 
That score proved to be all the Otter defense would need. The Sorin def'enders, pl.aying what •Nas easily the.ir best game of the season, shut down the Siegfried's attack all after­noon. 
Led bv defensive ends Trevor "Morris and Mike 

Cisternino, the Sorin defense spent the majority of the after­noon in the Siegfried back­field. 
Linebackers Doug Lawrence and Dan Schaeffer also made considerable contributions. Schaeffer's two interceptions squelched any momentum the Ramblers might have had, while Doug Lawrence seemed to he making pJays all over the field. 
Backed by the spectacular play of their defense, the Sorin offense continued its domina­tion. For the first time all year, the Otters were able to move the bal.l on the ground. They controlled play during much of the third quartP.r as tailback Larry Burchett made several impressive runs chew­ing up the clock and whatever remained of the Ramblers' season. 
"We wern able to spread the offense out today," Otter cap­tain Fred Faber said. "We had a bunch of guys catch passP.s today, and I think once they saw that they had to cover everyone, that frood up Carney for the big play, and gave us more room to run the ball." 
ST YOUR WJTSf.ff 
Universily:of nohe Dame's Colleqe Bowl 
Compellllon Information College Bowl Is & quesllon &11d uswer (}Hie belween 2 teams of 4. The question» com 111 subjecb C»tmllu lo Trtr1alPvrsul/J. 
Monday, november 22 -7:00pm nohe D1.me !loom. 2nd floor L,foriune R.eqistrdion Dea.dfint: Mond&y, november 15 fR.EE!! fR.fE!! fR.EE!! fAEE!! 
1"1"~.-w:,

Prizes, Winning Tea.1111111 expen$e pa.ldhfp«)lndia.na. Unlverslly lo compele a.9a.insl !~~Winning lnms from olher lndl1n1 a.nd llhno!, colle9es. W1nn1n,!!i11 6 R...r~er Up Tne, n1mes placed on a permanenl 
plaque.Jllspla1ed.i11laforlune Sludenl Cenler. 
II I 

forms· &nil&ble outiide Jhe Student t1diYities Office, 315 LaFortune. 
for 11ore dela.lls, conla.cPM,Hhew fulcLer 631-5028 or 1ulcber.4@nd.edu. 
a:ce,,l$dlJ11J~ed. so slqn up u soon u ponlble! 
ATTENTION STUDENTS: 
WHYSELLYOURUSEDTEXTBOOKSBACKTOTHEBOOKSTOREFOR 
LESS WHEN YOU CAN SELL THEM DIRECTLY TO ANOTHER STUDENT? 
CAMPUSMONSTER.COM ALLOWS STUDENTS TO SELL THEIR USED TEXTBOOKS TO OTHER STUDENTS. YOU WILL MAKE MORE MONEY 
AND YOUR FELLOW STUDENTS WILL SAVE MORE! IT'S THAT SIMPLE. 
LOG ON NOW AND LIST YOUR FALL SEMESTER TEXTBOOKS AND GET 
ENTERED FOR THE CHANCE TO WIN YOUR NEXT SEMESTERS BOOKS 
FOR FREE!!!! THAT'S RIGHT. WE WILL HOLD A DRAWING ON DECEM­
BER 30, 1999 TO FIN-0 THE WINNER OF OUR" SEMESTER FOR FREE" CONTEST. YOU WILL RECEIVE 1 ENTRY FOR EVERY BOOK YOU LIST. THE MORE BOOKS YOU LIST THE BETTER YOUR CHANCES OF WIN­NING. 
WHEN YOU'RE THERE, GET THE LATEST SCOOP ON WHAT'S HAPPEN­ING AT YOUR COLLEGE OR AT CAMPUSES AROUND THE COUNTRY. THERE'S ALSO A SECTION WITH UP TO DATE SCORES AND COLLEGE NEWS. 
FROM TEXTBOOK SWAPPING, COLLEGE APPAREL AND GAME TICKETS TO THE LATEST CAMPUS NEWS, IT'S ALL JUST A CLICK AWAY AT CAM­PUSMONSTER.COM 
PUSfflODSTHR.GOffl 
"If we don't have it, you can't get it!" 

Tueday, November 9, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 

Soccer 
continued from page 28 
calm and kenps everything in pnrspt!Ctive." 
Milligan startnd for Bnthcl Collogn's men's socr.nr team for threw ynar!i, including t.lw 1997 leam which finishnd l'irst in NCI\/\ play. 
"llis laid-back personality is l'l\llnctml in his coaching style ­lw trins to make the atmosphern positive and fun," co-captain Katy Barger said. "Jin is very optimistic and believns in us all tlrn way. It's dflfinitely morn f'un when Im plays wilh us as opposPd to just standing on the sidelines ancl callii1g out stuff." 
Th,~ Bell11s' rww assistant couch was .lan~cl Ilochst!'tlnr. 
".larPd was tlrn defensive coach," sophomorn defonseman .lnssica Klink said. "I le has made me a bettor player. Ilo helped !the d1d'ensn! cairn down and stay more focused. We always worked as a unit and wn knew 
J4 

MD/fit\C B 
what each one of us was going to do. He contributed both as a friend and as a coach." 
"Jason and Jared have great insight into the game, and they applied that well during their first season as collegiate coach­es," Barger said. "Playing a sport at a small Division m college means something special. It means that we play because we love the game. It means we're willing to make the sacrifices because we're part of a team. It also means 18 instant friends and a season of good times." 
At one of the first practices, Barger told the l'reshmen that they could count on the uppcr­r.Iassmen for help with home­work or any other problems. She empha.-;ized the need for unity in all things. 
"I think each person con­tributed to our team in some way. Everyone plays a unique role -thal's what being a tP.am is," Barger said. "Our returning players contributed guidance and experience, while our fresh­men elevated our play with their 

"You will go to Stepan Center 
TOMORROW and/or THURSDAY at 7 PM to see me, 


You will pay just $2 at the door. You wilt thank 
profusely for all the fun." 
enthusiasm and talent. Our sea­son was successful because we cared about each other and we had a common goal -to improve and to win." 
Barger led her team as she has all season with 111 shots, eight goals, and nine assists. Barger made four of them in the final regular-season game against 
Defiance. Barger was at the top 
of the League Lt1aders List for 
assists in the MIAA. 
"!Barger] was a solid consis­tent player both offensively and defensively and she put trP.men­d o us effort into anything she did," Klink said. "She led the team as a captain very strongly -verbally and physka.lly." 
Mary Campe scored four goals f'or the Belles and McCabe had five assists. .Campe and McCabe both had 45 shots on goal for the season. 
"Erin McCabe has outstanding foot skills," Muth said. "She has a knack for fueling her frustra­tion from negative situations into positive outcomes." 
As a team, the Belles totaled 400 shots on goal, 31 goals, 26 assists, and eight shutouts, allm\-ing only 26 goals against. 
"Katy Barger's strong foot and nose for goals helped out a lot," Taylor said. 
The defense stopped 166 of 192 shots against them. Brie Gershick had 95 saves in her first season as the Belles' goalie. 
"I think our defensive line is pretty solid, and the midfield did a great job this season," Barger said. "Our forwards need to work on finishing [their shots]. That was our biggest nemesis this season." 
Senior co-captain Rachel Egger led the defense this year and also contributed two goals on offense. 
"Rachel Egger inspired and motivated the team with her cheerful comments and funny 

remarks," Muth said. "She's one of the quickest defenders I have ever seen. She really helped raise the motivation level of our team -she's such a positive person all-around." 
The three co-captains, Barger, Egger and McCabe, will be sorely missed by their teammates. 
"Our captains led by example," Taylor said. "Every practice they worked hard, pushed everyone to do their best, and supported everyone on and offthe field." 
This year the Belles had a 2-2­1 record at home, and wern 7-4­1 on the road. 
Non-conference opponents included Marian College, Illinois Wesleyan, Bethel College, Franklin College, Anderson University, Washington University, Manchoster College, and Goshen. Collegn. Overall, the team's favorite game was against Kalamazoo early in thn season. Although Saint Mary's lost; they held the top MIi\/\ team to two goals, a significant improvement over last year's loss of 10-0. 

"H's important to keep in mind that we learn from our experi­ences and we constantly grow into better people and players," Barger said. "I envision even bet­ter things for this team next year. I am incredibly sad that this was my last season playing for the Belles. I am truly grat!'ful that it was such a wonderful experience." 
.... 
• 
... 
www.nd.edu/~sub 

r­
, 
I I 
page 26 The Obmver . SPORTS Tuesday, November 9, 1999 
HOCKEY 
Nebraska-Omaha earns first-ever CCHA win 
Special ro The Observer 
Nebraska-Omaha used a steady offen­sive onslaught and an effective penalty kill to defoat visiting Notre Dame, 5-3. in the second and final game of their Central Collegiate Hockey Association series Saturday at the Omaha Civic Auditorium. 
Notre Dame received goals from Andy Jurkowski, det'enseman Tyson rraser and David Inman but the Irish fallcd to catch the Mavericks, which held early leads of 1-0 and 2-1 before stretching to their final cushion. 
Irish Tony Zasowski gave up two goals in each of the first two periods while the hosts racked up a commanding 28-11 edge in shots during the first two peri­ods. 
UNOs second-period surge included a pair of goals aftpr scrambles in front of the Irish net. Nick fohr knocked iu his first goal of the season from the top of the crease at the 2 minute, 51 second mark while David Brisson netted his sec­ond goal of the season five minutes later, after· scooping home a loose puck from the left side of the slot. 
Inmans shot from the left cirrle vielded his team-leading sixth goal of the "season and cut UNOs lead to 4-3 with 14 min­utes left to play but the Mavericks restored their two-goal cushion with seven minutes to play, after Jeff Edwards took a faceoff from center Jason Cupp and drilled a shot from the right circle inside the far left post. 
Notre Dame 2, Nebraska-Omaha 2 
Notre Dame center Troy Bagne picked up his fourth career goal in timely fash­ion and goaltender Tony Zasowski con­tinued his strong play, but Nebraska­Omaha Jeff Hoggan scored with 1 :22 left 
• 
in regulation lo forge a 2-2 tie Friday at the Omaha Civic Auditorium. 
Notre Dame traded power-play goals with UNO early in the second period bflforc Bagne skated for a goal with five minutes left in the period. Zasowski, made 37 saves to stay unbeaten in his Irish career remained winless in its first season of CCHA play despite holding a 39-25 edge in shots on goal. The penalty­kill unit kept UNO in the game by stop­ping five of six Notre Dame power plays. 
Notre Dame center Ben Simon record­ed his first point since the season-open­ing series versus Michigan, after knock­ing home a rebounded power-play shot from between the circles by Dan Carlson early in the second period. 
Zasowski has totaled 110 saves in his last four appearances while allowing just s1wen goals in those 236 minutes of play. 
Hoggan brought the sellout crowd to its feet with a breakaway goal in the third period, after faking Zasowski to the left before flicking a backhanded shot into the right side of the net. 
UNO's powu-play goal came with Shane Glover skating from his own blue line and curling behind the Irish net before sliding a pass to Billy Pugliese, who was camped at the left side of the crease for the easy tap-in score. 
Bagne regained the lead for the Irish with an unassisted goal, after defense­man Nathan Borega had knocked UNO' s Allan Carr off the puck in the Irish zone. With two UNO players still in front of him, Bagne slowed down and split the opposing players, after faking a shot and skating to the left of defenseman Zach Schibner. 
Goaltender Kendall Sidoruk had plenty of time to see the play developing in front of him but Bagne sent a shot from the edge of the right circle under Sidoruk' s glove hand. 

-

KEVIN DALUM/The Observer 
Junior Ryan Dolder avoids a check from a Miami (OH) defender and skates up ice in a 2-2 tie against Redbirds. Notre Dame went 0-1-1 in a two game series against Nebraska-Omaha. 
import~nt thin tij¥past, than fapurestrthaiisuccesses, .•.r~_.. i.~11ranij!i!IF1•'• 

any.,:a qhurcJ...a 
"' ' ·; .-: ,., . 

· regardirig the ~ttitJJ,<:le we 
table '\_ e· qji~ t _ ..·.. 



Tuesday, November 9, 1999 The-Observer . TODAY page 27 

INTRAMURAL DEADLINEf 
:.,, 
Deadline for ALL: November 11 
Campus Indoor

Campus Table 
Soccer

Tennis 
Re,Sports Offi,e 
Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 
1-6100 • http://www.nd.edu/--recsport 

FOURTH AND INCHES 
Fox TROT 
MISS Fox, I MUS'T SAY 

1\iEY'RE SETTER?.' t'M A LITTLE TROUBLE!> 
GETTtNG, WHA'T'S So BY WHAT I SEE To BE 
WELL, ~UBL!NG A TREND IN lJ 
T\iEY'RE ABOUT THA.T?.1 
GETTING / 
SETTER. 
I 
i 
i 
"'9U)ll-• 
TOM KEELEY 

I,.UC," '-r (.t,; :TOS'tf.11.ot,IE. 
&UEVE: \..!EEO 
O!>""fl:9t)Nf. 
-:[:'t', !iorutY,',1£,~ "I-'LL M;:Vflt Mt.~ '{OV PU,'( $\JC..\\ #,Wl'Ul. Mo!JIE!. "'=,A~ 
BILL AMEND 
~ (SIGH) FEEL FREE To

You SEE, I'VE SoRT of 
CoME To RELY oN 
!I SUPPoSE SAY "JiJST k:1D­n-tEM FoR MY 
f TliERE'S 0ll~G" ANY T1ME WEEk'.ENO ~ ALWAYS No~. Q11 ENTERTM~MENT. i BLoC.k8uSTER.
I r,==11...,...,1, 
\ 

.,,,....
A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD JEFF BEAM 
1111

~===---....' 111 II~ 
/
I 
( 
I 
I 
. 

-
beam.1@nd.edu 


HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON nus DAY: Tom Weiskopf, Carl Sagan, Lou Ferrigno, Tom Fogerty 
Happy Birthday: Outgoing, excit­ing and full of adventure should sum up your year ahead if you take con­trol and follow your heart this year. You have so much going on around you that it would be a crime ID miss out on any of the opportunities that are present. Take tne initiative and start after your goals wholeheartedly. Your numbers: 1, 5, 26, 31, 43, 48 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
Don't turn down any invitations. You will attract love interests If you get out. Your fun-loving approach to life and your youthful nature will be ad.mired by those of all ase5. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 201: You will be emotionally upset. You can spare yourself a lot of anRUish by not expecting your mate to do things for you. Do things that will make you feel better about yourself. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Criti­cism will be devastating. It is best to do your own thing. You should socialize only with individuals who have been loyal and trusting friends. You need positive support, not negativity. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Con­28 Deputy sheriff of 45 Old hat 51 To-do sider making a career change that TV's Hazzard will involve dealing with homes or
46 Variety of 52 Helper
County services or items for the home. Look
symmetry 

53 Equal into the possibility of starting your
29 Bivouacs 
47 Skating sites own business. 00000
56_peace

31 Speed LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Double­
48 English accord ( 1998 
33 Kind of learning check your house before you go oul
university city agreement) 

Pioblems with gas, oil or water may50 Borscht need 57 Wriggler disrupt your routine. Someone you 
34 Love, to Luis 
35 Catches some 
live witn will be irritable. Irs best to 
rays 
do your own thing and leave him or 37 Strokes Answers to any three clues in this puzzle her alone. 00 41 90's-style nest are available by touch-tone phone: . VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You'll egg 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Birthday Baby: You have compassion, empathy and devotion when it
43 Spreading tree Annual subscriptions are available for the 
comes to dealing with thOlle less fortunate. You will always look out for the 44 Sex symbol best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 ones you love, and you are detennined to be a helper throughout your life. Brad years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. Your good actione will be rewa.rded in many different ways. 
EUGENIA LAST 
have trouble handling the innuen­
does that some of your friends and 
relatives are making. You can accom­
plish great things if youJ'ut your 
efforlli into your career an not into 
secret affairs. 0000 
LIBRA (Sept . .23-0ct. 22): Your 
contributions will certainly enhance 
your reputation. Y?ur intellectual 
app-ch will be well-received, but 
don't let others talk you into making 
a financial donation you can't afford: 
000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21); You will have demands put on you at work and at home. Try to be patient and do what's necessary as quickly as possible. There is no point in argu­~rtrying to get help from others. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. n): You should be on the road. 'J'rav­el will be in )"Our best interests regardless of whether it is for busi­ness or pleasure. Adventure will result in added knowledge. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't rely on someone else to pay your way. You need to clear your debts so you can start over. Your money-ma.king ability is beginning to tum around again. 0000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Your partner will overreact lf you have to spend too much time at work. Don't back down, but don't fuel the fire. Let him or her get the frustration out and then do some­thing nice. 00 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): U:nderlwidrd tactics may be present 

if you trust someooe at work who is .. 
urueliable. It is best to work diligent­ly 1m your own for the time being. ~urthoughts to yourself. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 What some detectors detect 
6 lip 10 Stage item 14 Battery part 15 Killer whale 16" Camera" 17 Gooct-lookin' 
fellah 19 Summers in 
Quebec 20_ Majesty 21 "Unfortunately 
" 22 Adequate, as a 
living 24 Layer 25 Skillful 
maneuver 26 1992 Elton John 
hit 29 Mass part 30 Less 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
o ---:-t".,,.-i-,:-r.:::-,--:-o I F 
31 Chief of staff under Nixon 32 Traditional hazir19 site 36 Sleep like _ 37 Brief role 38 Robin Cook thriller 
39 Snack 40 Nile reptiles 41 Betray 42 Popular mints 
44 Fireplace supplies 
45 One who's experienced release 
48 Low-cal 49 Principles 50 "Little Women" 
woman 51 Tree juice 54 Swim's 
alternative 


D ,-,..+..,,.+-e-+:=-1 
AM 
M O _____ E 
55 Hon 58 Sushi bar order: 
Var. 59 Ogled 60 ''The Cloister 
and the Hearth" writer 61 "So what _ is new?" 62 Certain volleyball shots 63 Change 
DOWN 1 Unthought-out 2 At times it's 
upped 3 Hardly upbeat 4 Tally (up) 5 Stays behind 6 To date 7 Canine sounds 8 School subj. 9 Padre's place 
10 "Easy!" 
11 A dime a minute,and others 
12 Signs 
18 Oscar­nominated Peter Fonda role 
23 Loaf part 24 Not the easiest person to deal with 25 Common side order 26 Investigator, of sorts 27 Hawaiian city 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 


Krrocked out 

Saint Mary's was eliminated from the 1vl/M Tournament this weekend by conference foe Hope College.
PORTS 
page 22 


Tuesday, November 9, 1999 

VOLLEYBALL 
Irish finish 9-0 in Big East with win over Orangewomen 
By MATT OLIVA Sports Writer 
-
The Notre Dame vullevball team defeated Syracuse in three· games this weekend to conclude its 1999 home season. 
With the victory, the Irish remain 
undefeated in the Big East at 9-0, while their season record improves to 16-6. The Irish have two more matches to play this year, both against Big East teams this coming weekend. 
Saturday afternoon the Irish defeated Syracuse 15-4, 15-13, 15-11. ln game one, the Irish were able to easily beat the Orangewomen by outhitting them 
31.3 percent to 5.3 percent. In the sec­ond game, Syracuse did not go away as easily. 
Syracuse forced Notre Dame into four game points before the Irish were able to come away with the win. 
Game three was just as tight as the two teams were tied four separate times. The Irish were able to take the lead for good at 8-7 on consecutive kills by Marcie Bomhack. Mary Leffers and Jo Jameyson contributed kills for the Irish as they defeated Syracuse in the third game 15-11 to win the match. 
Christi Girton finished the match with 19 kills and 13 digs, to post her third consecutive double-double match. Bomhack recorded 10 kills and a career-best four aces, while Leffers contributed an all-around performance. She finished with eight kills, nine digs and six blocks. 
Dana Fiume's 18 kills led Svracuse, while senior Rachel Watson added 11 
against the Orangewomen. She also to receive the award this year. Leffers son conference play. Notre Dame maydigs to lead Syracuse defensively. 
extended her streak of consecutive has received it three times so far. need a win over Georgetown, whichGirton was also named the Big East matches with at least 10 kills to six. Notre Dame will travel east this com­currently in second place in the Bigplayer of the Week, after her perfor­At week's end, Girton had a .439 hit­ing weekend to take on Big East oppo­East with only one loss, to wrap up sole 
mances against Illinois State and 
ting average, with 5.43 kills per game nents Villanova on Saturday and possession of the team's fourth Big EastSyracuse. In both matches the junior 
and 3.86 digs per game. She joins Georgetown on Sunday. The two regular season crown and the tourna­
totaled 19 kills, while adding 14 digs senior Leffers as the only Irish players matches will conclude the regular sea-ment's top seed. 
against the Redbirds and 13 digs 

INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Whirlwind breezes past Babes 
season. The Whirlwind defense. 
By RACHEL BIBER 
defense played exceptionally 1\Jot to be outdone, the BP Sports Writer 
well, shutting out the Babes Babes intercepted a pass in and securing the win for the Welsh's endzone and ran it 
The Welsh Whirlwinds team. Welsh coaches Brian back the entire length of the transformed into tornadoes Sweet, Dave DePoister and field. during last weekend's semifi­Casey Bouton were speechless The referee's whistle, how­nal matchup against the BP when asked about the ever, brought the ball back Babes, tremendous performance of because he thought a player uprooting Women's the defense. was hurt. The Whirlwinds the top­"The entire defense played retained the ball, but were
lnterhall 

s e e d e d excellent," Sweet said. not able to capitalize on the Babes from Semifinals Welsh tallied six points as turnover. t h e i r Welsh 12 the first half of the game Welsh ev1mtuallv overcame p I a n n e d BP came to a close when a Welsh the miscued call ·and scored
0

path to defender intercepted a pass for the second time when Notre name from BP quarterback Jenny Vanessa Lichon returned a RP stadium and running away Choi in the end zone, and ran punt all the way for a touch­with a 12-0 win. the ball the length of the field down, zigzagging through 
Welsh brought together all for the score. multfple BP defonders. facets of its game on Sunday Choi's pass was deflected The Whirlwinds again could and did not bow down to the off the chest of BP receiver not convert the extra point, 
formidable BP attack that had Jill Schuler and landede in not yielded a loss the entire the hands of the Welsh see WELSH/page 23 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Belles record best season in history 
overall 1998 record of 6-10-2. 
• By SARAH RYKOWSKI "I think Jason's coaching style Sports Writer 
helped the girls to grow as a team," senior co-captain Erin 
Teamwork was the word that McCabe said. "This year we had the Saint Mary's soccer team both the excellent individual tal­used to describe the 1999 sea­ent and the synergy to make son, their best season to date. this a winning season." 
The Belles linished fifth in the Milligan was the assistant MIAA this season, with a record coach during the 1998 season, of 3-4-1 in conference play, and and with other teams has com­9-6-2 overall. piled a coaching record of 63­
"Our biggest asset was our 11-7. teamwork," Lynn Taylor, fresh­"I can honPstly say Jason is man midfielder, said. "The way the best coach I have ever had," we worked as a team helped us freshman midfielder Heather to outplay our opponents." Muth said. "His roarhing style is 
In its second year of MIAA very different from what I am play and its first under new used to -he's very relaxed, head roarh Jason Milligan, the Belles improved from their see SOCCER/page 25 
vs. Marathon, vs. Alaska Fairbanks, · Volleyball Thursday, 7:30 p.m. '~~ Friday, 7:05 p.m. at Villanova, Saint Mary's Swimming 
SPORTS 

Sacurday, 1 p.m. 
vs. Albion,

ATA e
at Pittsburgh, Nov. 16, 7:30 p.m.
Swimming Cross Country Saturday, 2:30 p.m.
vs. Pittsburgh, at NCAA District IV, 
'..-:i

GLANCE • ­Friday, 6 p.m. Saturday, 10:30 a.m. 








