Wet 'n' Wild 
Braves win 
Scene explores lhe sporadic spraying ofthe 
The Atlanta Braves beat the New York Mets in the 

Wednesday

sprinkler system; Read a student ·s riveting report 
first game ofthe NLCS by the score of4-2 with Greg 
on this wet topic. 
Maddux throwing seven inn_ings. 
OCTOBER 13, 

Scene . page 14-15 
Sports . page 16 
1999 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXXIII NO. 35 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

STUDENT UNION 
ARE CORPORATIONS RESPONSIBLE? 

Trustees report draws questions. 
. Some leaders 

. express concern about findings 
By ERICA THESING Associdtc Nrws Ed11or 
T1•11 students will present thn Studl'nt Union ·s Fall SPnwstor ll.cport to tho Board or Trustmis Thursdav, follow­ing deballi on aspects of the rnport pertaining to Catholic characl!!r and the gay and lesbian communitv. 
Tim 13-pagii rnport. "Anticipating Jubil1ie: A Hnl'lection on Notre Danrn's Catholic Characl!ir," is the rnsult 111' hundreds of student rnspons11s through surveys and dozPns of' inlcrviliws with faculty and administrators. Hccommnndalions in the rnport include such topics as reduction in class size and improvnnrnnt in academic counseling. . 

Student senators rnccived ·copins or llrn rq)Ort at last WI\Pk ·s Student Senate meet­in~. am! s1111w exprnss1frl con­cnr n ovt!r findings in the rPporl. such as a seclion questioning the Catholic char­actnr of the science. depart­ment. The rnport singles out the scinnce and theology dnpartments as two extremes of the Catholic character dnbate. Some senators said this was an unfair attack on the science department. in the report. which is inherently different "Some of the conclusions than the theology depart­(the report) came to I ment. wouldn't have come to on my 
Dan P,mtc, nxecutive coor­own, but I didn't do the diuutor for the report, said he research," he said. "But they was bnginning to get feed­put a lot of work into it and 
back  from  I'm  sure  
the senators when the  ''The Trustees are really  from the re·search  
group voted  here for the students and  they did,  
to move into a closed meeting,  seem to really care about the students."  it's an accurate depic­ 
expelling  tion."  
Peate  from  Dan Peate  Dittmar  
the room. Ile said overall support for  executive coordinator for the Board of Trustees Report  said sen­a t o r s a s k e d  

thn report's topic is strong. 
Although Peale's presenta­tion to the senate was a cour­tesy appearance to keep stu­dent representatives informed of the reports' con­tent, he said he welcomes input from anyone as he pre­pares Thursday's presenta­tion. 
''I've gotten some feedback from individual senators and I appreciate that," he said. "I don't even know how many people I've talked with at this point but I've always had this real open door policy ... I encourage anyone in the stu­dent body to be involved in this." 
Fisher senator Phil Dittmar was among those senators with concerns about specifics 

Peate to 
highlight aspects of the report that they did agree with, including a section on tenure for profes­sors. 
Dittmar said senators were· pleased with the report's rec­ommendations that tenure decisions reflect factors such as a professor's involvement in the community and contri­bution to the Catholic charac­ter of Notre Dame. 
Dittmar also said he appre­ciated Peale's presence at the senate meeting. 
"I was happy we were even involved in the process," he said. 
Another controversial issue in the report is a recommen­dation that Campus Ministry 
see REPORT/page 6 




Hesburgh travels to Kosovo to aid in relief 
By MATT SMITH News Wricer 
Aller traveling through Kosovo as an unotlicial ambassador for the U.S .. UnivBrsity president emeritus Father Theodore llesburgh 
,'laid he is pleased wilh the prngross made in the war-torn region nnd is set Lu build for tho future. 
"I have hope that if W{l keep working, we'll have peaco in Kosovo," said 1-Icsburgh. 
As honorary chairman of the United States Association for the United Nations lligh Commissioner for Refugees, Hesburgh visited areas in and around Kosovo from Sept. 30 to 

Oct. 4. 
He toured camps in Macedonia, where some 40,000 rcfugnes ended up, and said he was very pleased lo see that more than half have returned to K,osovo. 
"The guy who ran the camp was a Notre Dame guy," said Hesburgh. "The relief effort was wonderful. I talked to a lot of agencies, and I was impressed at lhe number of young Americans that went over to help, they were all very eager and hard-work­ing." 
During Serbian president Slobodan Milosevic's reign of terror, more then 1 million refugees fled to nearby Albania, where families took them in if they had room. Refugee camps, some sponsored by like the Red 
see HESBURGH/page 4 
Petition circulated among faculty 
"We don't expect the Faculty Senate sometime
. Faculty protest 
administration to respond," after midterm," Manier. con­GALA and Preacher said. "They just tinued. ''I'd be very disap­OUTreach ND ad want to see it die. We do pointed if he didn't give the 
hope that the faculty protest Faculty Senate a candidban by petition will stimulate a reconsidera­response to this protest." 
tion . of the issue by Manier said he was 
[University pleasedBy ERICA THESING 
president] with the
Associate News Editor 
Father faculty's
"We do hope that the
[Edward I support
In protest of the ban on Malloy." faculty protest will for the GALA and OUTreach ND 
Manier stimulate reconsideration petition.
advertisements in The agreed. 11· e
ofthe issue 
Observer, 225 frrculty mem­
"The ad explained
bers signed a petition con­C O p y by Father Malloy." t h a t demning the administra­
makes it because tion's decision. The petition 
fairly plain faculty
Ava Preacher
ran as a full page ad in 
that we offices are 
Friday's newspaper. didn't assistant dean of the College of 
s p r e a d 
The petition's organizers expect a Arts and Letters throughout -Ava Preacher, assistant 
response," campus, it 
dean of the College of Arts he said. 
was diffi­and Letters, and philosophy 
"We're telling [the presi­cult to inform everyone of professor Ed Manier -dent] we think what he did the petition. Manier added spent about three weeks is inappropriate and we're that faculty members from 
gathering the signatures. 
telling him why we think Saint Mary's were also veryPreacher said the petition that. supportive. 
stems from a desire to "He'll have a chance to "It's their paper as well," gauge the faculty's position respond to questions of this ____________ on the advertising ban. 
sort when he comes to the 
see GAlA/page 4 
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Wednesday, October 13, 1999 
INSIDE COLUMN 
My little rave bracelet 
I f 
When I signed up for today's Inside Column, it was suggested that I write something rele­vant. Well, I don't exactly know what that means, but instead of something important, sensible and relevant, I got something here stupid, fun, and silly. 
C.R. "Teo"
Enjoy! 
Teodoro
On the first weekend of this month, October, I had a chance to go to Chicago 
Illustrations 
to attend, oh, let's say a 
Editor
~nice little gathering of folk." Oh yeah, I had fun at this rave, but there is one incident that I always recall from that night more than any other event. 
! 
One thing still lingers in my mind from that night. No, it's not losing my camera (which l still regret but accept) or my contemplation of the following morning (which also brought to light another aspect of myself). It's about this small, multi-colored bracelet. I'm not usually into ornamenting my looks, particularly when 
I 
the ornaments come with bright colors (okay, the hair is an exception}. I first got this bracelet when I was playing drunk and lying on the edge of the dance 
floor. Then two people walked nearby and looked down on me. One was a guy and the other was a girl. The girl reached down, took hold of my left arm, and put a bracelet on me. Then they walked off before I was able to get up and tha,nk them. I was so surprised by this that there was a momentary pause after they put the bracelet on me and before I got up. I really didn't get a good look at them. I couldn't recognize them if I ever saw them again. All I have is this one bracelet that I'm looking at right now. It is a small hand-made bracelet that consists of round plastic beads and three other beads in the shapes of a but­terfly. star. and a flower. respectively. It is all held together by a single string of elastic. Again, I am looking at it in my hand, puzzled by why I have it. 
What does this mean? What kind of sign is this? Of course, thinking rationally, I could assume that this was just a random action brought about the influence of this crazy environment. Nothing more, nothing let,s. Yet, there is something inside of me that wants to make something more of this whole thing. I know it's silly, but I want to make meaning of this bracelet. Is this a sign? Does it mean something will happen, an omen of what will be? Is this a reminder of something long forgotten, an artifact of the past? Does this bracelet signify the unity and friendship that should be part of such a night like this? Maybe it is just a simple sign that there are people out there, people that you may not even know about but still live in the same world as you do. When I look at my rave bracelet, I have an unclear feeling. It is not an ominous feeling, but rather it is a feeling of optimism. a feeling of hope. 
Of course, when I think about it, I might just be making this all up in my head. Then again, creativity and imagination is more important than rationale and intelligence. If you see me around in my almost perpetual black garb, take a look at my left wrist. If you see something colorful, then that proba­bly means that I'm feeling more reassured on that day. 
The views expressed in the inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Josh Bourgeois Scene Laura Rompf 
Mike Vanegas 
Sam Derheimer 
Graphics
Sports 
Amy Crownover 
Mike Connolly 
Lab Tech 
Viewpoint 
Monica Garza 
Brian Hobbins 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associated Pres~. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
THIS WEEK IN SOUTH BEND 
Bus crash jolts university band 
LEXINGTON, Ky. 
Two of six buses carrying University of Kentucky band members were in a minor accident Friday on I-26 just north of the South Carolina border, en route to Saturday's game at the University of South Carolina. "The first thing I thought was 'we're gonna die,"' said Chrisy Carpenter, freshman involved in the accident. Luckily, Carpenter's fears did not come true. While ten students had to be taken to nearby St. Luke's Hospital, none of them suffered serious injuries, said George Boulden, associate director of bands at UK. The accident occurred when one bus had to slam on its brakes quick­ly when approaching an 18-wheeler on mountainous roads. The 18-wheeler was traveling extremely slowly because it began burning its brakes. Boulden said. Another bus then rear-ended the first and swen1ed into the shoulder, hitting a guardrail and travelling about 50 feet before stopping. Nicole Schwartz, a music education freshman, said that there was virtually no space in between the bus and the edge of a cliff. In.order to leave the crash scene, she and other band membors had to walk sideways, she said. 
Today 
. "Frank Loyd Wright and his colleagues": John G. Blank Center for the Arts. 10 a.m. -4 p.m. 
. "Terminal Fahrenheit": 
Indiana University South Bend. 8 a.m. -12 p.m. 
OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Thursday 
. 
"Surf and Turf: the Mountains": Everest­Rohrer Chapel Fine Arts Center, Bethel College. 11 a.m. -3p.m. 

. 
"America's Favorite Places": Bremen H.S. Auditorium. 7:30 p.m. 


Controversi~l professor engages in debate 
PRINCETON, N.J. 
The Princeton University commu­nity got its first public glimpse of Peter Singer Tuesday night when the Australian bioethicist took the stage in McCosh 50 to debate Adrienne Asch, a blind professor from Wellesley College. 
Singer said he suggested Asch's name to Princeton's Bioethics Forum -the group sponsoring last night's event -both because she is handi­capped and because she has written extensively on issues related to dis­abilities and bioethics. 
The Uniwirsity's only professor of bioethics has not shied away from the spotlight since arriving at Princeton, appearing in The New Yorker and The New York Times Magazine to discuss everything from his mother's affliction with Alzheimer's disease to his proposals 
"We thought it would be more beneficial for the students if there was someone th.ere who could challenge Singer's views .. 
Dan Kraus Student president of the Bioethics Forum 
for ameliorating world poverty. Tuesday night marked only the lat­est instance in which Singer has allowed himself to be thrust into the public eye. But Singer said Monday he has not specifically sought oppor­tunities -such as Tuesday's debate -to publicly discuss his views. 
"I think there's nothing particular about the past few weeks except for the number of occasions I've had to write or be written about," Singer 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high tern ratures 
The AccuWeather"' forecast for noon. Wednesday, Oct 13. Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
Wedne··.1sday.··· · Thurs~ay Friday! 70.~ 
80s-----4t,>1 FRONTS: 

~ ..&...&. ~ 
Cl 1999 AccuWeather, Inc. GOLD WARM STATIONARY
Saturday 
PN•Wtfl:
® © D C.sJ c:::J l23 ~ ~ <) ~ ,g~ 
High Low Showers Rain T-atarms Flt.Art"IH Snow fee Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
VNi' Assoeiat«J Pro:s 
~f/tj__......,...,,j'"\1',:" 
Atlanta 78 60 Las Vegas 95 62 Portland 66 48 Baltimore 71 56 Memphis 82 55 Sacramento 94 52 Boston 68 55 Milwaukee 56 40 St. Louis 75 49
~-~-~~~~ (f ~ ~ 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Chicago 60 38 New York 70 56 Tampa 90 69 Via Associated Press GraphicsNet Houston 90 60 Philadelphia 72 55 Wash DC 74 56 

Friday 
. Ballroom dance: 
Carriage House Dance Academy studios. 9 ­
10:30 p.m. 
. Media Play: Featuring Greg Martain in concert. Grape Road. 5:30 -7:30 p.m. 
Saturday 
. World of Applique: Erica's Craft and Sewing Center. 11 a.m. -2p.m. 
. Cafe Urban Art Series: 
Colfax Cultural Center. Bring your own poetry and short stories. 8 p.m. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 
said. 
He added that he has largely ignored the raging debate over his right to teach at the University, which has included calls from trustee and presidential hopeful Steve Forbes '70 for Princeton to dismiss Singer and a protest last month in which disabled activists blocked the entrances of Nassau Hall. 
"I never thought that there was the slightest possibility that Princeton would go back on its undertaking," Singer said. 
Senior Dan Kraus, president of the Bioethics Forum, said his group has been planning to host a lecture by Singer for quite some time. 
"We thought it would be more beneficial for the students if there was someone there who could chal­lenge Singer's views," Kraus said. 
Baylor students mourn deaths 
WACO,Texas 
When Jennifer Booker arrived at the Tau Kappa Epsilon fraternity house Saturday, she thought nothing of the short walk across the four lanes of traflic of Farm-to­Market Road 60. That same walk more than an hour 
. later was filled with hesitation and grief after the death of four Baylor students and two others. "Everybody had started dancing because of the good music," she said. "But at one point, the music stopped and some members of the fraternity came in telling us to get out of there. We didn't know if someone had gotten shot." It was when Booker and another companion went to leave that Joseph Ellis remembers seeing the bodies of the students lying near the road. He saw bodies covered with white sheets and one was in a body bag. The police department accident report states that at 12:30 a.m.: a pickup travel­ing east on PM 60 swerved off the road, killing six stu­dents and injuring two more. "An experience like this has a stunning effect on you," University President Robert Sloan Jr. said. "Even though we are a large campus, you just hurt at the loss of even one student, but to lose four at once is just devastating." 
Wednesday, October 13, 1999 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


ANGELA CAMPOS/The Observer Father Jon Sobrino spoke Tuesday in McKenna Hall on martyrdom in today's societ~ and the future of the Catholic Church. He also told of his experience with religious persecution In his native country of El Salvador. 
If our delicious, flame-broiled double cheeseburger were any bigger, we'd need to buy more ad space. 

Nutl1111g l1C,1ts our h1g,_1uicy Douhk ( :hccsd,urgcr. It's got the gre;ll L1~tc of tlarnc broiling anJ haf 75% mnt\' beef than l'vk l )nn:ild\' ChcL'schurgcr. 
(Price and pa,11c1µa11on 111.:y vary) 
The Huddle L aFortune Stude•1( Center 
It just tastes better. 
.. ,., 1l,·•1,,·,••v 1i,.·;1,,r1"-1uuC:),,,..·-,r1,· ;l·• .,.!,· .· 1-,,-,...,:, ,?rt1t· 
11·, ,1!,"l•1•i,, !~l1l•,r,,1J•l: ~.•11:q1~!1~:1•!··,1:,· ,,._ ''•,,.r.t .l.11,1,: ··•I 1r,:, • 
Sobrino te.11s story of Salvadoran Inartyrs 
By ELLEN FITZGERALD 
News Writer 
Father Jon Sobrino spoke last night about his beliefs of martyrdom in today's society and the future of the Church, especially in his native coun­try of El Salvador where reli­gious persecution is com­mon. 
"The Church of the future is the Church of the past," said Sobrino. 
He explained that the Church of 30 years ago, Medillian, was more real than today's Church of Vatican II. The Church 
Church does not work toward the upward goal of being equal," said Sobrino. An example of this inequality is the place of' women in the Catholic Church. 
Globalization was among other topics addressed by Father Sob1·ino. He feels that the two Americas, the mm of the North and the one of' the South, are coming tognther since the poor of the United States are becoming as desti­tute as the poor of Ilaiti. 
There still are, however, differences between the peo­ple of the two Americas. 
"The people of the north 
are the 
people on 
of Medillian this planet
''The people ofthe north 
was a that take 
are the people on this
Church life· for where mar­planet that take life for granted. tyrs flour­The people
granted. The people of 
ished. of the
the south cannot take life 
According south can­to Sobrino, for granted. " not take martyrs are life for people granted,"
Father Jon Sobrino
whose life he said. He 
lecturer
and death feels that 
resemble 
J e s u s 
Christ's. "They are people 
who spill their blood for 
Christ and the gospel and 
whose memory is kept alive," 
Sobrino said. 
These "suffering servants 
of Yahweh" take the sides 
and defend the interests of 
the poor and oppressed. 
According to Sobrino, they 
interrogate, challenge and 
tell us what path to follow. 
Sobrino added that the 
"church of martyrs" was 
popular until it became too 
dangerous to believe in for 
its followers. 
The religious turmoil in El Salvador, especially the mas­sacre that occurred during Archbishop Oscar Romero's Mass, was also focused on by Sobrino. "Romero," accord­ing to Sobrino, "was a man sent by God to save his peo­ple." 
He related many of the beliefs of Romero. whose ideas Sobrino greatly fol­lows. "I am happy because the church is persecuted," said the late Romero. He, like Sobrino, believed that the Church should feel suf­fering, joy and hope when its people do. "This is the chal­lenge of martyrdom," said Sobrino. 
Father Sobrino also said that he sees problems in today's church. According to him we are people of God, yet we are not people because of the lack of equali­ty in the Church. "The 
the north 
and the 
south must give to each 
other. 
The ideas of joy, hope and 
freedom, Fat.her Sobrino 
feels, are also key in the 
reconstruction and conver­
sion of the Church. 
"Good news is the bringing of joy to the world and to the poor," said Sobrino. He explained that he joy of' the church is not obvious because suffering does not oppose joy, sadness docs. Freedom in the church is not like the freedom that American citizens know. it is the power to do good. llope is given to people by martyrs because they allow people to go on. 
Father Sobrino's lecture was followed up by a response fro,n the Archbishop of San Salvador and his publisher, Robert Ellsberg. They both com­mented on the situation in El Salvador today anc;I Sobrino's view on change and convtir­sion of today's church hack to the old church that was built around martyrdom. 
Father Sobrino is from the University of San Salvador in El Salvador, a country cur­rently in the midst of great religious persecution. He himself only escaped death from this great persection because he was out of town when the slaughter of six priests and t.wo lay workers occurred during celebration of Mass in 1984. 
Like to write for the News Department? Call 1-5323. 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, October 13, 1999 
Hesburgh 
continued from page 1 
Cross, also were organized. 
lfosburgh pointed out that of the 20,000 refugees that were in America, more than 80 percent have returned home. 
"These people were all very anxious to get home," he said. 
But home was not the same for most returning families. lfosburgh explained that when families returned to Kosovo, they were given packages including tents, sup­plies and food. in case their houses were not lr~ft standing. 
"All uver Kosovn, [we saw] people rebuilding houses. except for places that were bombed 11at," he said. "Those places will take years to rebuild." 
Hesburgh himself stayed in a hotel 100 yards away from a military building in Kosovo that was completely flattened by bombing. 
During the 
Hesburgh's traveling group was constantly in touch with YKOR by hand-radio for safe· ty reasons because most other means of communica­tion in the region were destroyed. 
Hesburgh said the next step is to aid the returning and remaining refugees through the harsh winter and to remove the 20,000 hostile Serbians that remain in Kosovo. 
"In the future, forgiveness and rncognition are most importanl." said Hesburgh. "They must resolve religious conflict, and move toward peace. I think they are going to make it." 
''Milosevic is failing," he explained. "When Ithe Serbians! got to Kosovo, they were losing their empire, so they got tough. Without the bombing [by NATO countrfos], it would have been another Serbia." 
He explained that it is very unlikely NATO will let the 
Serbians 
back into 
Serbian eth­nic cleansing campaign  "All over Kosovo. [we saw/ people rebuilding  Kosovo. He said one day he  
against  the  houses, except for places  "could see  
Kosovurs, fathers in I' am i· I i es  that were bombed flat ... those places will take  [Kosovo] b e i n g indepen­ 
often  were  years to rebuild. " .  dent," but  
shot,  and  his imme­ 
sons were given 10 minutes to  Father Theodore Hesburgh University president emeritus  diate con­cerns cen­ter around  

gather their things before being shipped off to the Serbian army. He recalled one story in which a pregnant woman was shot in the head in front of her husband and their eight children. 
"All over,. you saw people digging graves," Hesburgh said. ''I'd go by a cemetery, and there would be four buri­als at once. Many of these people return to a dead father and a burned down house." 
However, various organiza­tions are working to restore peace to the region. Hesburgh met with the general of YKOR, a relief agency in Kosovo that includes soldiers from 40 countries. Most troops are from the United States, Britain, Germany and France. They are training a police core that will one day replace soldiers as keepers of peace. 
the need 
for contin­ued support in the region: "With the crisis in East Timor, I hope volunteer fatigue doesn't set in." 
Hesburgh, 82, said the trip was a wonderful opportunity and he was glad to do it, but he said, "By the end of it, I really felt my age." 
Despite the seemingly slow progress toward peace in the region, Hesburgh explained one very uplifting experience. "One Sunday, just outside of Albania, a bunch of Kosovars in their Sunday best were walking up a hill as we drove by," he said. 
"We stopped the car to look· around. Around 20,000 peo­ple were going to a shrine of our lady of the rosary on the hilltop. They all had Catholic Mass right on this hill, old and young, with blue skies and birds flying overhead." 

GALA 
continued from page I 
he said. "Our president ma.de a. rule for their paper without any involve­ment from people across the road." 
While the College of Science, the College of Arts and Letters and the Law School had a good turnout, Manier sai.d he was hoP.ing for more sup­port from the College of Engineering and the Cnllegc of Business Administratinn. He said issues of free press should concern the whole cam­
pus. 
"We've got signatures from the College of Engineering and COBA but not nearly as good percentage turnout," he said. "That disappoints 
me." 
Preacher said she hoped the student body would follow the faculty's lead. 
"We think this is an important issue that shouldn't be allowed to die," she said. "I also wish the student voice would rise up. I have a hard time oelieving they don't have somn opinion about what it means tu prevent The Observer from printing certain kinds of ads." 

Rolfs Sports Recseation Center Announces NEW HOURS 
Sunday: 12 p.m. to 12 a.m. 

Monday-Thursday: 6 a.m. to 12 a.m. 
Friday: 6 a.m. to 11 a.m. 

Saturday: 9 a.m. to 11 a.m. 
got news? call 1-5323 

Thinking of The London Program for Fall 2000 or Spring 2001? 
Remember, you must return your completed application to the Program office (103 O'Shaughnessy) 
You are strongly encouraged to turn in your completed application by 4:30 pm on Friday, October 15, 1999 
AppJications will be accepted until 4:30 pm on Monday, October 25, 1999 
THE CANDAX MCNAIR PROGRAM ANNOUNCES THE 1990 -2000 RECRUITMENT MEETING WITH PROF. MARIO BORELLI 
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1999 
4:30 -5:30 PM 
CUSHING ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM (DEADLINE FOR APPLICATION: Nov. 5) 
FOR ALL UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS WHO ARE EITHER: 
• First Generation College Students from low income families 
(all ethnic backgrounds are eligible) 
or 
• African Americans, Hispanics, Native Americans ( visit the ro ram at htt ://www.nd.edu/~mario/mcnair/) 

orld 


Wednesday, October 13, 1999 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
AFP Photo 
Pakistani army soldiers stand guard on Tuesday in front of the state-run televlslon building following the dls­mlssal of Army Chief General Pervez Musharrah. Musharrah, after being fired by popularly-elected Prime Minister N<1waz Sharif, formed a military coup and removed Sharif from office. 
Coup ousts Pakistani government 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Austria's far-right gains in vote 
VIENNA 
Tho consPrvativn junior partnnr in Austria's coalition gov1!rnm1•nt d11cided Tw!sday to lwr.onw an opposition party, a move that may l1\ad to political instability and n1•w 1\lections 1wxt yPar. Tlw dncisio11, madli by leaders of llw Austrian i'PoplP's Party, came only hours af'tor tl11· rf'nt1•r-lPft Social D,imocrats of Chan1:nllor Viktor Klima had urged the con­SPrvalivns to n•consid1H" tlwir f)arlier threat to join tlw opposition di1spitn their third-place nlnction finish. Tlw Social Democrats wern sPPking to prevPnt tlw far-right Freedom Party of nationalist .I01irg llaicfor from entnr­ing tlw gov,~rnment -a development that l:ould prompt Israel to break off diplomatic rnlations with Austria. This small neutral muntry could nnd up without a governmHnt, and new Plnctions would huvP to be held next yPar. 
Female matador retires 
MADHlll, Spain 
Spain's top femalo matador, Cristina Sandwz, killed hnr last bull on Tuesday, bow­ing out of a world shn describes as intolerably sexist. Sanchez, 27. announced her retirement in May hut has kopt fighting, performing in morn than a dozen bullrings in what amount­ed to a f'arnwell tour. She said that during this time slw lms l1)anwd that bullfighting fans arc with her but most male bullfightnrs still do not want to fight alongside her. "At one point I thought that aftor announcing my retirement many would change their minds and would want to f'ight alongside me," she told the n,!wspap1!r El Pais prior to Tuesday's light at Madrid's l'amnc1 Las Ventas bullring. "That has not bnen Urn case. I have realized that many minds are closed and cannot accept sonwmrn breaking molds," she said. 
U.S. and China plan talks 
WASIIINGTON 
The United States and China will hold high­l1wol economic discussions later this month in Beijing, with China's application to join the World Trade Organization a key issue on the tabl1i. Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers said Tuesdav. Surmnnrs will lead the U.S. del­egation for· the talks on Oct. 25 that will include lop economic policy-makers from a numlH\r or Cabinet agencies. The forum, which was crnatnd to promote closer econom­ic ndations, last. met in May 1998 in Washington. The talks in two wnnks will be occurring at "an important time for China's 11conomie transition," Su1nmers said. lie went on to say that it was important for China to continue pushing ahead with economic rnforms, including an overhaul of its financial sector and its huge and unprofitable state­owrwd enWrprises. 
>'.!.09 
Nasdaq: 2872.43
-2 13. I 
-43.52 
NYSE 607.46
I I 
-5.87
y 
S&P 500: 1320.66 
-14.55
10,417.06 
VOLUME LEADERS 
i;g ¦ lllll 1;1;i;;1,11 !Ii S::IIIWill I i::&llilil HJCI INTEL, COJIP IIICT +0,25 +o.uoo 76. 69 gLOJLl.L caosnw QBLJt u.u . 1.6:il.15 36.fi9 COMPAQ CONPU'Tll:JI CPQ ••• 00 •O .1750 J2. 75
_,_,(I
Qllfll8T COJllltnUCA QWST -1.8125 Jfi,.H: UlCI: {T. JtOIQ) T1t01' +S.U +1.1862 ll,H .11•111.rwr COllP ,cs -J. l7 -:i. ,375 73.00 DILL cONPUTD DOLL -o.u -0,06~5 ,5.50 MCI WOltLDCOII WCON -:I• !IO -l.U50 77.81 JI.ITI AID CORI' 1W) -t5.00 +O, 5000 10.,0 NICROIOFT COJtP N8PT --1.u .. 1, '75l!I U,!56 
Composite Volume: 655,800,000 
PAKISTAN 

Associated Press 
ISLAMABAD 
Pakistani troops staged a coup against the democrat­ically elected government Tuesday, seizing state-run media and confining the prime minister to his home in a lightning move that raised tensions in the world's newest nuclear region. 
In a tnlevised address, Army Chief Gen. Pervaiz Musharraf accused the democratically elected gov­ernment of "systematically destroying" state institu­tions and driving the econ­omy toward collapse, 
"You are all well aware of the kind of turmoil and uncertainty that our coun­try has gone through in 
Kosovo 
Ethnic Albanians murder U.N. employee 
recent times," Musharraf said. "Not only have all the institutions been played around with and systemat­ically destroyed, the econo­my too is in collapse." 
Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif was under apparent house arrest in Islamabad hours after he tried to fire Musharraf as army chief and replace him with his ally, Gen. Zia Uddin, for­mer head of Pakistan's secret service. 
As troops moved through the main cities, many Pakistanis danced in the streets and waved flags, celebrating the crnster of a prime minister who has become increasingly unpopular. 
Sharif has been a1.:cused of trying to consolidate his power by weakening insti­tutions like the judiciary. provincial governments and the opposition, and of using heavy-handed tactics to quell opposition protests in recent weeks. 
Word of the coup led the army of nuclear rival India to go on immdiate high alert along the border between the two countries, a senior officer in India's northern command in Kashmir said. 
In an apparent warning to India, Musharraf said "no outside forces" should try to take advantage of the "prevailing situation in Pakistan ... We shall pre­serve the integrity and sov­ereignty of our country to the last drop of blood." 
Tuesday's developments followed reports in recent weeks of a growing rift 
with a single bullet after a the base for many employ­group of teenagers asked ees of international organi­for the time -apparently zations in Kosovo. in Serbian. He responded Police said a suspect in Serbian. escaped on fc)ot, apparcnt­
"One individual proceed-ly helped by other rcsi­ed to hit him with his fist, dents crowding the street. and others kicked him," which is turned into a Moreau said, "A large ·pedestrian mall for several crowd gathered around the hours each night. altercation. All of a sudden Two other U.N. employ­a shot was heard, the ees who arrived in Pristina crowd dispersed and the with Krumov on Monday body ... was on the ground, were with him, but were lifeless." not hurt, Moreau said. 
Krumov, who in May Bernard Kouchner, the received his doctorate in chief U.N. civilian adminis­political science from the • trator in Kosovo, called the University of Georgia, was killing "unspeakable, bar­shot near the Grand Hotel, baric and disgusting." 
between the military and the civilian government in this impoverished and overwhelmingly Muslim country of 140 million, 
The army has ruled Pakistan for 25 of its 52­year history. But democra­tically elected governments have been in place since 1985. 
The conflict between the two men developed this summer after the prime minister ordered militants to withdraw from Indian territory in the Kashmir region, ending tw[) months of bitter fighting with India. 
A senior State Department official said the United States wants to see "the earliest possible restoration" of democracy in Pakistan. 
Associated Pres• 
PRISTINA, Yugoslavia 
A U.N. employee killed on his first day in Kosovo was mobbed, beaten and then shot in the head after enraging a group of ethnic Albanian teen-agers by speaking Serbian, interna­tional police said Tuesday. 
Police officials showed a black silk jacket inscribed with "United States, New York," found near the body of Valentin Krumov. They said the garment had traces of blood -but could not immediately say whose -and it was left by one of the suspects fleeing the busy main ·street -0f Pristina. 
Krumov, of Bulgaria, was shot Monday evening on Mother TerPsa street in Kosovo's capital after arriving for duty earlier in the day, 
"It seems like he was speaking Serbian, maybe Bulgarian," Lt. Col. Dmitry Kapotsev said." A crowd of local citizens assaulted him. He was taken by a mob ... and shot dead." 
Another U.N. police offi­cial, Inspector Gilles Moreau, said Krumov was beaten before being shot 
page 6 The Dbser11er . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, October 13, 1999 
Report 
continued from page 1 
bring a group called "Courage" to campus. Courage is a network of support groups for gay and lesbians seeking chaste lives in accordance with Catholic teachings. 
Anne Geggie, co-chair of 0UTread1 ND, said she is con­cerned about the methods Courage uses, including its disregard for labels of gay and lesbian. 
"Trying to take away that name seems like you're trying to say we don't exist or take away any community we might have. That really wor­ries me," she said. 
Geggie quoted a line from Courage's Web site that reads, "By all means pray a.nd ask God to help you come out of horn osexuality." 
"That to me is not what being gay and Catholic is all about," Geggie said. "That seems to me to wish that we would go away. I really hope that's nut what people on campus or elsewhere really think. I would really encour­age people to look further into what their [Courage's] agenda is." 
Geggie suggested that other groups, such as Dignity or Parents, Families and Friends of Lesbians and Gays (PFLAG), might work better for Notre Dame. 
She also suggested that Notre Dame contact other Catholic universities to research the groups those schools invite. She explained that community is essential to Notre Dame's gay and lesbian students. 
"l think that the administra­tion feels the same way and lhal's why they provide groups," she said. 
Pc ate-said he recognized that many people on campus were unhappy with the ten­sion surrounding the gay and lesbian community and that his committeP selected Courage as way to continue dialogue. After lis.tening to concerns from the gay and lesbian community. Peate said he understands that Courage may not be the answer. 
He will bring those concerns to the Trustees Thursday, explaining that some middle ground between the adminis­tration and the gay and les­bian community must be found. 
Ho said his goal is to find a forum where people on both sides of the issue can feel comfortable enough to dia­logue with and support one another. Pcate said Courage is only one of many possibilities. 
Peate said he is confident that the Trustees will be receptive to the overall report. Peate served on last semes­ter's report committee, which requested an overhaul of the career centt1r. Ht1 said he was very pleased with the Trustees' response. 
'Tm just overwhelmingly surprised with how responsive they are being to the requests we made," he said. "The Trustees are really here for the students and seem to real­ly care about the students." 
The Student Union reports to the trustees each semester. Membership on the report committee is open to any interested students. 
•, 

MD'I WIDMIID4Y-MIGHT H4MG OUT 

The Keough Institute for Irish Studies University ofNotre Dame 
Cordially Invite The University Community and The General Public To Its Formal Dedication 



Wednesday, October 13, 1999 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Conference ScheduJ 
Erasmus conference begins today 
Wednesday 9 a.m. -"Catholic Universities; Dangers, Hqpes, CIJ•H~ef\.\i]Jr,~;;'~ ,, Alasdair MacIntyre, professor of philosophy, Duke University By BASIL FARJO on the range of areas that can traditions and the dominant 
be discussed in the context of secular culture of higher edu­
News Writer 
Christian intellectual tradition. cation, organizers say.
10:45 a.m. -"Catholicism and SocJology: ~lectlve ~ffiqity~ 
"There are ideas that might All of the presentations will
Scholars from all over the
Unholy Alliance?" arise from Christianity that be given in the McKenna Hall
U.S. and Europe will be com­
Alan Wolfe, professor ol political science, Boston College are there," he said. "When Auditorium starting on
ing to Notre Dame today and 
those intellec-Wednesday
,;,:i 
Thursday to discuss academic 
tual traditions at 8:30 a.m.
2 p.m. -"Christian Faith in the Academy: The Roleot Ph 
inquiry grounded in Catholic 
are present, 'Tm interested in a The confer­
Sir Reverend Doctor John Polkinghorne, president emerit intellectual traditions at a con­
they can be ence begins
variety oftopics,
Queens College, University of Cambtidge ference sponsored by tho engaged in with a wel­
Erasmus Institute. from physics to
conversation come by
The conference. which was
3:45 p.m. -"Not All the Nations Furiously flage ... We can international relations." University
scheduled to occur when the 
recognize provost
Bruce Russett, professor of lnternatiunar rtlliJJQ'rJti Main Building reopened, will 
their intellec­Nathan
science, Yale University consist of balanced presenta­Father Bob Sullivan
tual value." Hatch and
tions given by distinguished 
The intend­co-director of Erasmus Institute J a m e s 
figures in higher education
Thursday ed audience is Turner,
representing a variety of
8:30 a.m. -"Art, Literature, Theology: Learning from Ger academics, director of
scholarly perspectives. All pre­
educational administrators, the Erasmus Institute center
Nicholas Boyle, head of department of German, Univer$1ty · sentations will be followed by and anyone interested in the at Notre Dame. 
Cambridge · 1s open discussion. 
topics under discussion. It is One highlight, Sullivan said,
Organizers say the purpose 
open to the public and will be would be a lecture on the
of the conference is to exam­
10:15 a.m. -"Catholic Traditions and attended by many individuals intersection of sociology and
ine non-theological issues .in
Human Rights" who have come to Notre Dame Catholic social teaching. It will 
the context of Judea-Christian 
from various universities in be given by Alan Wolfe, a pro­
Mary Ann Glendon, professor ol Law, H thought. 
the U.S. and Europe. fessor of political science at
'Tm interested in a variety 
The conference will aim to Boston College, and is Sullivan 
12 p.m. -" What Have Wetearoed?" of topics, from physics to examine, deepen and extend said he expects it to illuminateinternational relations," said
Jean Elshtain, professor of social &political ethics, U recent efforts to consider pos­the topic in a way that is
Father Bob Sullivan, co-direc­
Chicago sible. new relationships important to both Catholic and 
tor of the Erasmus Institute, 
between Catholic intellectual secular thinkers.
• All presentations are held at the McKenna'HjiH'A~ 
~''Friday Night Live'' 
with CoachD 
starring Dick Vitale, Tommy Hilfiger, Austin Carr and 
the 1999/2000 Fighting Irish Basketball Team 
Friday, October 15th at the Joyce Center 
Lineu  
9:30pm  Gate 10 opens (First 1,000fans get a free t-shirt)  
10:00pm  5 on 5  &3pt Final Four Tournament  
11:00pm  Final Four Champs take on the coaching staff  
Midnight  1999 Basketball team scrimmage  0  

Student Giveawavs (Must be Present to win)
.r 1 
Opportunity to coach alongside Tommy Hilfiger andAustin Carr 1/2 court shot to win semester tuition Trip to the ND/Tenn football game (Nov. 6) Tommy Hilfiger apparel adidas apparel 



'1'-W 
page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, October 13, 1999 
R.ee.::_..........._~ ......
­

student Award 
RecSports "Champion Student Award" recipients are selected by the Office of Recreational Sports. Honorees are 
chosen for their involvement in RecSports, including excellence in sportsmanship, leadership and participation. 
Tim Casale, a senior Film, Television & Theatre major, hails 
from Delran, NJ. A Resident Advisor in O'Neill Hall, Tim has 
been very active in a number of different ways at RecSports. 
He has participated on, many times even seNing as the captain 
of, several different IH teams including Soccer, Basketball and 
Softball. When not participating on IH teams, Tim has also. 
competed on Co-Rec lnnertube Water Polo, Co-Rec Basketball 
and Co-Rec Soccer teams. Tim has also seNed as Late Night 
Olympic Representative for O'Neill Hall and has competed the 
last three years in many events at LNO and plans on attending 
again this year. Upon graduation in May, Tim hopes to pursue 
a career in either broadcasting or teaching. 
Recipients receive <I:~ merchandise from the 
_... 
VARSITY SHOP 
"Specializing in Authentic 
Notre Dame Sportswear" 
(Joyce Center) 
aa It. 
VARSITY SHOP 
7:2~
~ee,r~ 'l'I' 
"Specializing in Authentic 
·www.nd.edu/-rec sport Notre Dame Sportswear" 
Upcoming Events & Deadlines 
frican Dance 
Information Meeting 10/26, 7pm, RSRC Classes Meet: Sundays 7:00-8:30 October 31 -December 5 Register in Advance @ RecSports -$10 Fee 
Fitness Classes 
II Fitness Classes will be 50% off after Fall Break. 
Register at RecSports. 
Look for this award to appear in the Observer every other Wednesday. Students selected receive <J:~ 
..--....L..-~--.l~--.. ..'I. .a. Ii.
merchandise courtesy of '-,,&..-......._ .... _1_:.._ __ and the vij'::i°; with two locations in the Joyce Center. The vir•o• 
is open Monday-Saturday 9:00am to 5:00pm and Sunday 12:00pm to 4:00pm. (Phone: 631 -8560). 


W«lne.,d,y, O,rnbe, 13, 1999 Th, Obmva . NATIONAL NEWS --------page 27 
============================================================================================================ 
Despite governor's proposal, Alabama voters reject lottery 
Associated Press 
\10NT(;OMEHY, Ala. 
The govPrnor's proposal for a lollt!ry was failing Tuesday, a signal that votprs were hePding tlw warnings or ministnrs and otlwr anti-gambling l'orcPs over argu11w11ts that tlw rnvenu11 was vital to i111prnv11 the statn's lag­ging schools. 
With (,0 percPnt of precincts rPporting, :H, I, 17') pnopln, or 55 pnrcent, had voted no on the lottery plan. There wern 294,272 yes votes, or 45 per­cent. Several urban precincts, wlwre the lottPrv tended to be doing well, re;nained to be countnd. 
Tim lotterv was once almost a sun1 bet to ·be approved, but it came under fire from religious groups who said it would exploit tho poor. · 
Some opponents also claimed that a rncent traflic ticket-fixing scandal showed that Gov. Don Siegelman's administration could not be trusted to oversee gambling. 
Si1~gelman promised that a lottery would generate at least $150 million a year for college scholarships, a pre-kindnr­garten program and computers in schools. 
In a state where spending on public education has tradition­ally lagged near the bottom in national rankings, lottery sup-

z 
0 
IC 
> 

Bl!N HARPER 
Burn To Shine 

We also buy and sell used CDs. We pay cash. 
MEDlhPLAVe
See manager or 
associate in the music 
deportment for details 
Your Entertainment Superstore 
For the store nearest you, call toll-free 1-888-60-MEDIA. Now on line at www.MediaPlay.com CasseHes available 
on select ti~es. Sale ends October 23, 1999. Product selection and pricing may vary online. 81 _8733_109 
porters said it would be the only was the biggest ffold o chal­way to improve funding, partic­lengers since Folmar whipped ularly with voters opposed to more than 40 candidates to bn any new taxes. elected the first time in 1977. 
The Democratic governor After Siegclman usPcl the lot­called it a ".once-in-a-lifetime tery plan in 1998 to defoat opportunity to change education Republican Gov. Fob James, it in Alabama forever." moved through the Legislature 
Thirty-seven states and the quickly and with little opposi­District of Columbia run lotter­tion. ies. Few states, including A poll in late August showed Arkansas, Oklahoma and North 61 percent were ready to vote Dakota, have for the lot­rejected a lot­tery, but tery at the bal­"Even the abortion issue later surveys 
lot box. has not come as close to showed that 
Secretary of numb1)r
bringing denominations
State Jim shrinking Bennett predict­together.., after minis­ed that possibly ters began 60 percent of organizing
Rev. Joe Bob Mizzell 
director of the Christian ethics for
million regis­The Rev.
the Alabama Baptist Convention
tered voters would go to the polls, even though no state or national offices were on tlrn ballot Tuesday. That would surpass thA 57 percent turnout in last year's race for governor. 
Turnout was helped in Birmingham and Montgomery by nonpartisan mayoral elec­tions. 
In Birmingham, Alabama's largest city, 14 candidates were trying to succeed Hichard Arrington, the city's first black mayor and dominant political figure for 20 years. William Bell, who is black and Arrington's hand-pickPd succes­sor, was considered the favorite. 
In Montgomery, the capital, conservative Mayor Emory Folmar faced six opponents in his bid for a seventh term. It 
Joe Bob Mi z z e 11, dirnctor of Christian ethics for the Alabama Baptist Convention, said no issue had united so many minis­ters fro differing denominations. 
"Even the abortion issue ­the sanctity or human lifo -has not come as close to bringing denominations togother," he said. 
Siegelman pointed out that Alabamians already can play the lottery in neighboring Georgia and Florida. Georgia's lottery director estimated that Alabamians have spent $446 million on tlw Georgia lottery since it began in 19<n. 
Ilawaii and Utah are thn only states that bar gambling entire­ly -Alabama docs have four dog tracks and high-stakes bingo. 
Americans watch fat, ignore calories 
Division or Nutrition and
Associated Press 
Physical Activity. CIIICAGO "It is a combination of fac­tors," Serdula said. "We're
Many of the more than two­
more likely to eat out, [eat)
thirds of U.S. adults trying to 
snack foods, and physical
lose weight could fail because 
activity is not bu ill in to our
they're either cutting calories 
daily life."
or exercising but not doing 
The survny results from
both, a nationwide survey 
more than 107,000 men and
found. 
women in 49 states were ana­
Thirty-five percent of men 
lyzed by researchers from tbe
and 40 percent of women who 
National Center for Chronic
said they were trying to lose 
Disease Prevention and 1-lealth
weight are not counting calo­
Promotion, an arm of the CDC.
ries, according to a report in 
Serdula said she was sur­
Wednesday's Journal of the 
prised that
American 
only 21.5
Medical 
"~fpeople feel reducing percent of
Association. 
fat is synonymous with the mon and
Many are 
19.4 percent
eating less fat, reducing calories, they 
of the women
but they may 
tend to reward 
who said they
be consuming 
themselves [with sweets]." were trying
as many or 
to lose weight
more calories 
reported fol­
from lower-fat 
Dr. Mary Serdula 
lowing feder­
foods, 
medial epidemiologist for CDC al recommen­
researchers 
said. 
Even those who are combin­ing exercise and calorie reduction often aren't exercis­ing enough, researchers said. Only 42 percent of the men and 37 percent of the women who said they were trying to lose weight are meeting feder­al recommendations of at least 150 minutes of exercise each week. 
The findings could help explain why obesity is increasing even though Americans are spending mil­lions of dollars on diet proce­dures, said the study's lead author. Dr. Mary Serdula, a medical epidemiologist in the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's 
dations for both exercise and calorie reduction. 
Following tho recommenda­tions is important for anyone trying to prevent weight gain, she said. 
Reducing fat intake can be a good way to automatically reduce calorics, but dieters must be careful not to con­sume more calories overall, Serdula said. 
"It is important for persons consuming no-fat or fat-frne foods to check out the labels to see how many calorins are in [the food]," she said. "If people feel reducing fat is syn­onymous with reducing calo­ries, they tend to rnward themselves" with sweets. 
page IO The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, October 13, 1999 
RUSSIA 
Military safety zone reaches coDipletion 
Associated Press 
GROZNY 
A military security zone to separate Russia from the breakaway republic of Chechnya is nearly complete, but rebel forces were resist­ing with heavy fighting in some areas, Russia's defense minister said Tuesday. 
Russian artillery pounded Chechen positions on several fronts, and Russian authorities said they suspected Chechen militants would soon launch terrorist attacks. 
"Clashes with militants continue, especially in western Chechnya," Defense Minister Igor Sergeyev said in the Ukrainian town of Fcodosia, where Ukraine's forces were staging military maneuvers. 
He said the Russian aim of establishing a security zone in Chechnya was "close to com­pletion," the lnterfax news agency reported. The Russians said they wanted to create the buffer to prevent Chechen militants "We were sprayingfrom invading 
Russians with 
other Russian 
regions. machinegun fire, Sergeyev said killing them in 
Tuesday, "The 
masses, but they 
ultimate objective is not onlv to form kept advancing." the security zone, but also to 
Baudi Bakuyev 
destroy armed 
Chechen commander
gangs." 
Both sides have been fortifying their positions in recent days, and neither has launched a major offensive. 
The Russians, who have relied mostly on large artillery guns, hammered two are,as north of Chechnya's capital, Grozny, on Tuesday. The echo of the exploding shells could be heard throughout the city. 
Russian soldiers also were shelling near the town of Bamut, which they have been attack­ing for several days. 
For now, the front line is defined by the Terek River, which flows across the northern third of Chechnya, forming a natural defense barrier. Chechen forces control most of the more populated regions south of the river, while the Russians have most of the plains north of the river. 
But Russia recently has made inroads in the west from Dagestan, and was massing troops on the eastern border with Ingushetia. 
Sergeyev said Russia's push into the territo­ry would not stop at the Terek. "They will con­tinue performing the tasks to eliminate bandit formations and terrorist groups in the Chechen territory," he said, according to the ITAR-Tass news agency. 
Baudi Bakuyev, the Chechen commander on the northwestern front, told Chechen TV that his troops didn't want to battle Russian forces on the open ground because of Russia's supe­rior manpower. 
"We were spraying Russians with machine­gun fire, killing them in masses, but they kept advancing on us and wouldn't even try to hide," Bakuyev said. Russia has said its casu­alties are minimal. 
Chechen militants have been blamed for bombing four Russian apartment buildings last month, leaving about 300 people dead. But Russia has given no proof, and Chechen warlords have denied involvement. 
The Defense Ministry said the militants ­led by the region's most prominent warlords, Salman Raduyev and Shami! Basayev -were preparing more large-scale acts of terrorism. 
Both men carried out hostage-taking raids in soulhcrn Russia during the 1994-96 war with Russia. Basavev also led invasions into neighboring Da.gestan in Augu~t and September, prompting the Russians to send troops to Chechnya three weeks ago. 
On Tuesday, Haduycv denied Russian claims· that he was planning attacks on nuclear facili­ties, "because the consequences of this cannot be predicted," lnterfax reported. 
But, he said he would sabotage strategic Russian installations unless Russia stopped its airstrikes, Interfax said. 
The Chechens are skilled guerrilla fighters, and small groups of five or six gunmen have repeatedly been attacking Russian outposts, then retreating to fixed positions, the Russian military said. 
ITALY 
MGM nearly destroyed by Italian financier 
Associated Press 
-LOS ANGELES 
Fugitive financier Giancarlo Parretti was named in a federal indictment accusing him of defraud­ing investors of $1.5 billion in the purchase of Metro-Goldwyn Mayer and other Hollywood concerns, and then looting the historic studio of more than $15 million, prosecutors said Tuesday. 
Parretti, 57, was arrested Monday near Rome on allegations outlined in the indictment, which was handed down in 1998 but kept under seal unit! Tuesday. 
Parretti's former partner, Florio Fiorini, 58, also was named in the indictment. Credit Lyonnais S.A., the French bank that financed the MGM purchase. was named as an unin­dicted co-conspirator. 
The bank agreed to settle a crimi­nal investigation of ilo; role by paying $4 million in fines. 

Credit Lyonnais also will refer two corporate officers accused of aiding Parretti to French authorities for prosecution, prosecutors said. 
The charges stem from Parretti's $1.3 billion purchase of MGM in 1990 as well as the 1989 purchase of The Cannon Group Inc., then a lead­ing independent film studio. 
Prosecutors contend that Parretti and Fiorini relied on a complex web of falsified financial records and overseas shell companies to conceal that they were borrowing $1.1 bil­lion of the purchase cost from Credit Lyonnais. Once they got MGM and Cannon, they left creditors unpaid and transferred assets overseas. 
MGM and Cannon were both taken ovM by Credit Lyonnais in 1992 and renamed Pathe Communications. Pathe, which exists as a legal entity but is no longer in the tilm business, pleaded guilty to filing false reports to federal regulators. Prosecutors agreed to ask the court to mitigate any sentence in return for coopera­tion in prosecuting Parretti. 
MGM, already struggling before Parretti took over, was nearly destroyed. 
"This is an order of magnitude greater in complexity than anything we've sAen," said Assistant U.S. Attorney Jeffrey Issacs, the lead prosecutor .in the case. 
The indictment accuses Parrntti of 53 counts of conspiracy, securities fraud, filing false reports to federal regulators, falsifying corporate records, making false statements to auditors, money laundering and fil­ing a false tax return. 
Fiorni faces 25 counts of conspira­cy. securities fraud, filing false reports to the SEC, falsifying corpo­rate records and making false state­ments to auditors. 
The Notre Dame Law School Natural Law Institute presents 
The Olin Distinguished Lecture Series 
·II Deconstruction 

Upcoming Lecture: 
Leon Kass December 6 
DignityII 
Mary Ann Glendon 
Learned Hand Professor of Law at Harvard Law School 
Thursd.-y. October 14. 1999 
4 p.m. 
Notre Dame Law School Courtroom 
Wednesday, October 13, 1999 The Observer . SCIENCE NEWS page 11 
Nobel prizes awarded in sciences 
+ Hooft and Veltman receive physics award; Zewail receives Nobel in chemistry 
Associated Press 
Scientists in tho United States and tho Nothnrlands wore awardncl Nobel PrizP-s Tuesday for ttwir 1~1l'orts to corral some of tlw fastm,t, smallest phenomena in the universe and peer into tlwir very corus. 
Nonr, or the winners of the physir.s and clrnmist.ry prizes this ymtr am household names. 
But tlrn race of the chemistry winnN. J\hmPd Zewai.1 of the California Institute of Tnclrnolngy, is familiar in his native Fgypt, where he app<'ars on two postagt\ stamp~. 
Znwail, 5:l. was honnrnd rnr pionncring a revolution •in chum­istry IJy uslllg rnpid-firn laser f'lashPs that illuminate the motion of' atoms in a molecule. 
The Hoyal Sw1-1dish Academy of SdPncns said ZPwail's work in the laLe 1 ()80s 11\d lo the birth of fcmtochomistry, tho use of high­speed cameras to monitor chem­ical reactions at a scale of fem­toseconds, or 0.000000000000001 seconds (one-quadrillionth ofsecond). 
"We have rE>ached the end of ihe road. No chemical reactions take place faster t.han this," the academy said. "We can now sec the movements of individual atoms as we imagine them. They are no longer-invisible." 
Other scientists described Z1ciwail's studies of how chemical bonds break and new molecules form as "the ultimate level of observation." They said that because his work helps researchers manipulate chemi­cal reactions on a fundamental level, it might lead to faster computer chips and ultra-pre­cise.machinery. 
"Everything in life is gP.tting faster and faster," said Henry Kaptyen, a laser expert at the Universitv of Colorado i.n Ilouldcr. "this lays the ground­work !'or technology that will develop over the next 20 to 50 yr-ars." 
The Nohel committee sur­prised a sleeping Zewail with a pre-dawn telephone call to his 
home in San Marino, Calif., 
where he was recuperating from 
a cold. 
But he said, ''The real excite­ment is, in fact, in the funda­mental discovery itself -the . ability to observe and study the 
behavior of atoms." 
Gerardus 't Hooft and 
Martinus J.G. Veltman won the 
physics prize for developing 
more precise cakulations used 
to predict and confirm the exis­
tence ofsubatomic particles. 
It is the latest in a series of 
Nobel prizes for researchers 
who are inching dosM to a uni­
fied theory of the forces that 
control the behavior of matter 
and the complexities of the uni­
verse. 
Veltman, 68, who lives in the 
cPntral Dutch town of Bilthoven, 
is professor emeritus at the 
University of Michigan and 
former professor at the 
Universitv of Utrecht; 't Hooft 
has bePn 'a professor of physics 
at the University of Utrecht 
since 1977. 
Their research provided a 
more precise roadmap for physi­
cists to find more subatomic 
particles using more powerful 
particle accelerators. 
Brain shocks help fight depression 
. Study. discovers electric impulses into region of brain controls emotional output 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
A pacemaker-like device may relieve severe depres­sion by sending tiny electric shocks into a mysterious region of thfl brain that gov­erns emotion, scientists say. 
The device is still experi­mental, but a pilot study with patients who failed every other antidepressant proved promising. 
Other studies suggest this gateway into the brain could be used Lo enhance memory or curb appetite as well. 
In one case, a former ship­builder had severe depres­sion unrelieved by any cur­rent therapies, and he was so sick that he had trouble even leaving his house. Doctors implanted the pacemaker­style device to stimulate a part of his brain thought important for mood -and that very day the man laughed. 
"It was remarkable," recalled Dr. M a r k 
Tho nerve also reaches deep into brain regions thought to regulate mood and emotion, said Dr . .John Hush of the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, who heads the pilot depression study. 
If the implant truly signals the depressed brain circuits to act more normally. it could prove important for some of the estimated 1 million Americans with depression not eased by conventional therapy. 
The stimulator is essential• ly a brain pacemaker. A gen­erator the size of a pocket watch is implanted into the chest. Wires snake up the neck to zap the nerve c:very few minutes. 
Two years ago, the Food and Urug Administration approved the implant to treat severe epilepsy, a way to sig­n al the brain to reduce seizurfls. 
Depression often accompa­nies epilepsy. Soon after the implants began selling, dor.­tors began reporting Bpilepsy patients who felt happier even if the implant failed to reduce their seizures. 
"There's certainly an over­lap between emotions and the site where people have intractable seizures," said Dr. Cynthia llarden or Cornell University, 
MILLIONS OF THE BEST MINDS IN AMERICA HAVE ALREADY CHOSEN THE BEST RETIREMENT SYSTEM: 
TIAA-CREF. 
When it comes to planning a comfortable future, America's best and brightest turn to the expert: TIAA-CREF. With over $250 billion in assets under management, we're the world's largest retirement system, the nation's leader in customer satisfaction," and the overwhelming choice of people in education, research, and related fields. 
Expertise You Can Count On 
For over 80 years, TIAA-CREF has intro­duced intelligent solutions to America's long-term planning needs. We pioneered the portable pension, invented the variable annuity, and popularized the very concept of stock investing for retirement. In fact, we 
ii Ensuring the future for those who shape it."" 
manage the largest stock account in the world (based on assets under management). 
Today, TIAA-CREF can help you achieve even more ofyour financial goals. With TIAA-CREF you'll find the flexibility and choice you need, backed by a proven history of performance, remarkably low expenses, and peerless commitment to personal service. 
Find Out for Yourself 
To learn more about the world's premier retirement organization, talk to one of our retirement planning experts, or better stilt, speak to one of your colleagues. Find out why, when it comes to planning for tomor­row, great minds think alike. 
To find out more -give ns a call or visit our website 
l 800 842-2776 
www.tiaa-cref.org 
•l)Al,DAR, Inc., /997 /kj,°,Ji'J CM/'l"i}m/1;,n Rn·rilFn.',· /l1/iJ'.I-'· P.ul perfonn,rnce is no lJllar-antec of future n:-.ult'-TIAA-CREF lnJh-iJua:I and lrastitutionaJ Snvin:1, In,._-, Jistrlburu CRY.:t,• cc-r1if~~a1ea .aml inte:reMs in the-TIAA Rul l'Ataic-A...:ccunf. Teat·hrn PerM>n.al 1nvcston &.-vice:-., Inc. di~ttibutet the TIAA-CRl~F Mutu•I F1.1nJa. For rnQrt 1.:ornple1e infnmlation. induJirig ._-ha_r~!! anJ e~penw!I, pleot~ cal1 for proe,pe~tu~a. Rud lh~m carefully b.tfore , • you invc-at or acnJ money-To n:q\lcot pr~~ctusu, call i 800 342/2'733, c:.r. 5509, lnw~tmenta in -'Ccuritin a.ch :i.1 mutual funJ!. and variable annuiti~ 
.ire sub;.:r, 10 'l:en.1in ri,.lc11 im;h11Jing the ~Lie 1~ or principal. a,qq 
George of 
"There's certainly an author of
the Medical 
University of overlap between one of 
those early
S o u t h emotions and the site 
studies.
Carolina, 
where people have So manu­
who per­
facturer
intractable seizures." 
formed the 
Cyberonics
experimen-
Inc. funded
tal implant. 
Dr. Cynthia Harden 
a pilot
"I said, 'Are 
Cornell University professor study of 
you being forced to laugh or do you feel good inside?' He said, 'Both."' 
Stimulating a nerve that runs from the neck into one of the brain's most mysteri­ous regions appears promis­ing enough that the govern­ment just granted permission for a study at 15 hospitals around the country. 
The treatment, called vagus nerve stimulation, involves sending tiny electric shocks into the vagus nerve in the neck, where it then relays messages deep into the brain. 
About half the 30 depressed patients treated in a pilot study -people who had failed every other treat­ment -"got a very good response," George said in an interview. 
The results are not defini­tive, he cautioned. But he added, "Stimulating there really is a wonderful portal into the base of the bra.in." 
Indeed, sr.icntists think stimulating this nerve could have even more far-reaching effects. such as enhancing memory or treating obesity by curbing appetite. 
That's bec<\use the vagus nerve is what Dr. Mitchell Roslin of Brooklyn's Maimonedes Medical Center calls "one of the information superhighways"between the brain and either organs. It relays messages. such as sig­nals to regulate heartbeat, and sends messages back to the brain, such as when the stomach is full. 
patients 
w i t h 
untreatable depression not 
complicated by epilepsy. Full 
results won't be released 
until December, but GP.orge 
said about half the patients 
responded well -prompting 
the FDA last week to approve 
a new study, beginning early 
next year at 15 hospitals, to 
prove the effect. 
The vagus nerve might also: 
. Fight obesity. Because the nerve signals the brain when someone's stomach is full, Ro slin impIan ted Cyberonics stimulators in dogs to see they suppressed appetite. For a week, the dogs continued to gulp what­ever food was in sight. But gradually their appetite dropped, until eventually they left half their food uneaten each day and lost one-third of their weight. Then Hoslin switched off the stimulators, and within five days the dogs' appetite and weight rebounded. 
Hoslin hopes to begin an implant study in obese New Yorkers early next year to sec if they get the same effect. 
. Help stroke or head­JJ1Jt1ry victims' memory recover. In a study last year, epilepsy patients scored 36 percent better at recalling words read just before their vagus nerve was stimulated. The thBOry: Emotional hor­mones seem to stimulate the vagus nerve to store memo­ries, so maybe the implant could mimic that effect in injured patients. 


VIEWPOINT 

DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS TINA THE TE.Cl-\ WRITER ~ 
50 I $TAP.TED
r::=========::::-t-g 
INVENTING 5TOFUE5
I GREW TIRED OF @ OF BIZARRE WORK­
WP.ITING THE ~AME 
I 
PLACE CRIME5.
OLD 'oTOP.IE5 FOR THE ~ 
NEWSLETTEP.. "' 
~ 
t: 
~ 
'ti 
,.,,.....-.....L...La"->"-~-i 
L-~J......JU.!:::::::::::::::::L;~__J 
SOMETIME$ WE IN THE MEDIA H~VE TO GIVE THE COPYCAT CRIMINALS A LITTLE 
KICK-5TART. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'"But when it's time for leaving, I'll hope you'll understand. that l was born 
a ramblin · man. ·· 
Allman Brothers Band 
musicians 
page 12 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 02·i South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN Cm:EF Michelle Krupa 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAG£R  
M. Shannon Ryan  David Rogero  
AssT; MANAGING EDITOR  
L~ura Pctel!e  

NEWS EDITOR: Tim Logan VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughen 
SroRTS EmToR: Brian Kessler SCENE Eo!TOR, Michael Vanegas SAINT MARv'S EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie 
PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Dalum 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Bryan Lutz 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Bret Hudar SYSTEMS ADMINIHRAfOR: Michael Revers 
WEIi ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kushro 
CoNTROLLLR: Timothy Lmc 
GRAPHIC.S EDITOR: Joe Mueller 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFO............631-74"'1 FAX... ........................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................63 J-6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc. nd. edu EDITOR IN CH!EF........................................ 631-4542 MANAGING EmroRIAssT. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS 0Ff1CE........................................63J-5313 
NEWS............... ··········································631-5323 observer.obsnews.l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT..............................................•..631-5303 observer.viewpoim. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. I@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S...., ........................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTf.NISfWEB AoMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associa red Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the mlnute forecasts  movies/music for weekly student reviews  
advertise for policies and rates of prim ads  online features for spe­cial campus coverage  
archives to search for articles published after August 1999  about The Observer to meet the editors and staff  
POLICIES  

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the srudents of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. Acting as pub­lisher ofThe Obseiver, the administration ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac prohibits rhe adver­tisement ofalcohol and The Observer's acceptance of advertisements from specified cypes ofgroups. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Ediror and department edirors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers, The free expression ofall opinions through· lecrers is encouraged. 
Q11mions regtirdirig Observer poliaes should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefM,che/Le Kn.pt<. 
O
THF 
BSERVER 
In a week, you will be allowed a week off from the daily grind that you have assigned yourselves to as members of the Notre Dame community. Many of you \\ill travel to exotic locales. Many of you will simply · return home and be ~-------, with the family. Some of vou will spend the week in service to your com­munity. 
Whatever you do, remember this: ·1n this life, you are only given a certain amount of time with which to do as much as possible. Do not waste it. There are no second chances, no do-overs. If you see an opportunity, you must seize that opportunity for it will probably not present itself again. 
As you read this, my friend Dan and I are driving back from Atlanta where we went to see the Braves and the Mets in the opening game of the National League Championship Series. Despite the 20-hour roundtrip, it is the very first playoff game that I will ever have witnessed in person. Also, I will spend some time with a very good friend. 
Because my graduate school schedule allows for three-day weekends, on Friday I decided to drive to South Bend and attend the drubbing of Arizona State at the hands of our rejuvenated defense and seemingly unstoppable senior football captain. But l also got to meet up with many people whom I had not seen for a while; people who were very near lo my heart. 
Last year, I took six months off from graduate school and job hunting in 
Matt Loughran 
Random 
Thoughts 
order to drive 33,000 miles and see 49 
US states and seven Canadian 
provinces. Next month a close friend of 
mine and I are going to see Paris, ,France, on a spur-of-the moment deci­
sion. 
People to whom I relate such adven­
tures often express their wish to go on 
such a trip, to see some of the things 
that I have seen or to be with the peo­-ple whom they miss as well. My answer to these people is always the same thing: What is .stopping you? 
Life is a series of experiences. Those 
experiences are gained by looking at 
the world around you and spending 
your time trying to understand and see 
those things that you don't at first com­
prehend. l\"o one gets through life suc­
cessfully shut up in a room. You have to 
put yourselves out there. 
Sure you have a schedule that you 
have to abiq.e by. But even the tightest 
of schedules allows some time to get 
away from your day-to-day routine. 
Such time is exactly when you should 
set out on an adventure of experience, 
regardless of how small that adventure 
might be. 
It is only after we spend time examin­
ing the. beauty that is around us that we 
can fully comprehend this life that is 
given to us. We bring those experiences 
and adventures back home into our 
souls and become more acutely aware 
of who we are and what we are doing 
on this swirling ball of dirt and water. 
Therefore, I say to you again: You 
have a week of down time, do not waste 
it moping about in your room. 
If you have planned an exotic week, 
don't let your coming classwork or the 
pressure of midterms keep you from 
immersing yourself in the sights and 
sounds of a new culture. 
If' you will spend the eight days of 
Wednesday, October 13, 1999 
freedom allotted at home with your family, don't let yourself become irritat­ed and quick to discard the simple re­introductory conversations with the people who know you best. 
If you have to stay in South Bend for the entire time, try to get a ticket on the morning train to Chicago once and, spend the day tooling around Grant Park or looking down on the world from the Sears Tower. 
If you are participating in a service project, do not let your school worries intrude upon the time that you can spend getting to know the load of human hardship and getting to know your capacity to lighten it. 
l have seen a few people die. I have seen lhe way that you evaluate what you have done with yourself and who you ha-.:e become. 
No one ever regrets the time spent with family. No one regrets the commu­nity service, the love of good friends, the sights and discovery of travel. No one ever regrets doing things. 
The only regret comes for what you didn't do. Those people say things like: "Why didn't I spend more time with my family?" "I wish that I had seen the sun never set in an Alaskan summer." "Could I have not lost track of some of my old college buddies?" 
Do not let fear or work keep you from those experiences that shape your life. If something seems worthwhile to you, find the time, get out there and do ii. 
Matt Loughran is a 1998 graduate and former news editor of The Observer. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE Wednesday October 13, I999 BSERVER page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Giuliani goes to bat for the Blessed Mother 
As a rece11l gradualP of' Notre Dame course not. Catholic bashing is the last (Class of 0 95) I thought I might write safe haven for hate mongers in these a .lr.uer informing my fornrnr ~--politically correct times. The only alma mater of' the currnnt thought that consoles me is that controversy surrounding Mary is praying for the peo­our Blr.ssrd MollHlr in ple pushing this "art" on tlrn New York aroa. ,~ the people of New York. As many of you This "art" is offensive might know, thm11 and does not belong in is currently an a public institution. I "art" P.xhibit at approached one of the Brooklyn the defonders of 1\1 use urn of /\rt the First which cnn-Amendment tains a pie-protesting out-lure of the side the muse-Blessed um. She Virgin taint-•described her-ml with ele-self as an avid pha11t dung art fan and and sur-Giuliani as a roundocl tyrant by porno-restricting graphic freedom of pictures. expression. I Mayor proceeded to (;iuliani ask her who has painted the thrnat-Mona Lisa. c!ned to She hesitated withhold and looked public away. I then funding of pressed the the rnusci-issue and she um and a informed me nwdia that she was not uproar has going to fall for 1msued one of my traps. drnrged with An avid art fan allegations of indeed! Maybe this First 
is a political ploy of Amendment vio­Giuliani's in his lations. I personal­Senate campaign ly find the "art-against Hillary Clinton, work" oITensive and or perhaps it is a man agree with the standing up for his princi­mayor's contention that sr-' pies. Believe me, it is often it does nol belong in a \::'.'."-.i ~, difficult to be an outspoken museum funded with taxpay-Catholic when you are not in the ers' money. The material is ofTen-shadows of the Golden Dome! sive to Christians. desecrates our Holy Perhaps Notre Dame should invite Mother and should not be supported Rudy (Giuliani, not the movie character) with public money. The artist does have to speak at commencement since he has a right to express himself, just not in a defended Our Mother so ardently in the museum that is run with your money face of ignorant protesters. and mine. Would this exhibit be allowed to go on if it was Martin Luther King Jr. John Moran or Anne Frank being desecrated? Of Class of '95 
Would Jesus participate in discri01ination? 
For three and a hair years, I have listened to the debate about whether the rights of homosexuals on campus should be recognized. The longer the debate continues, thP more !'rustratocl I become with the Notre Dame community and administration. llecently. 1have seen individuals across campus wearing bracelets with the acronym WW.JI) inscribPd 011 them, which stands for "What Would Jesus Do?" Well, what would Jesus do in this situation? Do members of the administration honestly believe that He would condone tlw discrimination of pt1ople who are homosexual'! Recall the Biblic:al story of' tlrn woman at the well. Though others refused to speak with such a woman, Jesus openly approached her and treated her with warmth and compassion. 
I am not condoning tho act of homosexual intercourse, but I don't believe that groups such as GALA do either. The Catholic Church itself, while rejecting the act of intercoursl' betwer.n homosexuals, does not srem to have a problem with accepting individuals who arc homosexual. Based on du Lac, no one on campus should be engaging in sex, so 1fail to see how Notre Dame's attempt to uphold the Catholic Church's bPliefs rq{arding homosexuals even comes into play. The main message I take from Jesus' work and preaching is to love your neighbors. This does not mean a pnrson must accept 1-werylhing others do, but instructs that everyone deserves rnspoct. I urge the members of the administration to set aside outside influences and biases and simply ask themselves, "What would Jesus do?" 
Anonymous Senior Lyons Hall October 3, 1999 
Ploughshare group pro01otes lllixed IDessage 
Regarding Father Cordaro's "Metal Plowshares" group, il is helpful to recall that the Book of Judges [3:311 records that Samgar "slew six hundred men with a ploughshare." Further, the Reverend's activists "pournd human blood on the plane in protest, [and] the group also hammered the bomber's under­carriage, knocking the bomb bay area 30 times." That activity hardly seems pacifist. Rather it strongly indicates that their true agenda is violence and aggressiveness -in the name of peace, of course! 
Paul A. Fisher, Class of '43 Clcrmonc, FL October 7, 1999 
Attack people, not ideas 
People have wasted so much space in the Viewpoint section talking about issues and ideas, weighing evidence and rational arguments. 
These people are idiots. 
But there is hope for the editorial section. I have recently noted that contributors to the section are improv­ing their arguments. When I say improving, I mean learning how to spend less time on the rationale of their arguments and more time attacking all those who would oppose them. 
All those that think overpopulation migbt be a problem, well they're just• misanthropes. So is anyone who defends animal rights. They hate humanity, so why should we listen to them? And do you know those people who major in gender studies or belong to the PSA (or both, God forbid)? They are postmodern Neo-Marxist social constructivists or just plain commu­nists if you like. At least communist Russia knew how to make an argument. Take someone who even indirectly disagrees with the official party line and call him a decadent bourgeois capitalist. 

Now those were the good old days, and with your help they may be return­ing. Contribute to the editorial section with a succinct series of personal attacks. Waste little if any space weighing the reasons for and against your point of view. 
One more thing-if you ignore my advice, it's just because you're a fascist' drug addict who hates senior citizens. 
Anthony Bishara 
Senior R.A. O'Neill Family Hall October 7, 1999 
Notre Dame is gracious gameday host 
Last Saturday was the first visit to your University for the students and staff of the University of Oklahoma: Marching Band. One hears a great deal about Notre Dame from national media and word of mouth. I am writing to tell you that everything I heard about Notre Dame is true. 
Everyone we came in contact with on Saturday showed respect, great hos­pitality and were extremely professional. 
We should likfl to give special thanks to the University of Notre Dame Marching Band. Dr. Snavely and Dr. Dye, along with the band students. could not have been more gracious. Our only regret is that we are not treated in such a manner everywhere we travel. 

Other than the outcome of the game, our trip was very rewarding. It gave 300 individuals a "up close and personal" look at your University. It is a trip our students will not soon forget. You are a class act! 
Gene Thrailkill Director Univmity ofOklahoma Bands October 4, 1999 


C s 
page 14 Wednesday, October 13, 1999 

O
THE 
BSERVER 
By ANDREW McDONNELL 
Scene Writer 
The sprinklers of Notre Dame. Evil? Or just greatly misunderstood'' Wretched, maliciously vile, spitting beasts'? Or perhaps just a product of their envi­ronment? It is difficult to discern just what motivation drives these nurturers of quads, but one thing seems all too clear. They are out to get us. Well, maybe that is a bit harsh. Theories abound when campus irrigation enters the main topic of conversation, as it seems everyone has at one time or another been ambushed by the stealthy lit­tle sod-bound demons. People cannot seem to help but dis­agree as to the true nature of these sprinkler encounters. There are some who believe the University likes to keep its students walking around with moist and supple s!<in. Yet others think it is all part of an elaborate attempt to keep the squirrels clean. Still others claim certain unnamed higher-ups in the administration have been seen rocking back and forth muttering, "A Notre Dame sidewalk is a happy sidewalk. A happy sidewalk is a shiny sidewalk." And still, there are those who would claim sprinklers are an agility-enhancing device, designed with such swift surprise in their craft, in order to keep the student body nimble as the bright­eyed mountain goats that once frequented this region before the glaciers rolled through. Yet, there is the occasional fellow who will try to convince everyone that the notorios sprinkling is an attempt to temporarily blind students, so that while blinded by the spray of wayward sprinklers, their other senses will over­com pe nsa le and grow stronger, and then upon the students recovery from the temporary blindness, their other senses may continue in their new-found strength, and as these "super" senses accrue, Notre Dame will soon find itself composed of a super-human race with amaz­ing "senses." Other people, and they are numerous, claim it is an attempt by University officials to flush out the Wicked Witch of the West who lives amongst us. They intend to recognize her by the screams induced by an unexpected stream of 
Scene explores the campus sprinkler system, answeri 
water striking her in the face or inner thigh -the two most commonly victimized parts of the body -and she will be swept to a distant location until a house can be found to drop on her already battered, half-melted form. 
But this is all hearsay. 
The truth beneath the per­ceived chaos is that sprinklers keep lawns green. 
The lawn. The great American symbol of successful living. The lawn is the repre­sentation of the fact that one no longer needs to use one's land to feed oneself, but can instead afford to go to painstaking lengths to spread the equivalent of outdoor car­peting across one's property. It is all part of living in what those zany 1960s bards The Monkees dubbed "status-sym­bol land." 
Why, a person can have an Olympic-sized pool in the back yard, 1,250 acres of land, two golf courses, 7,800 children and more than $2 biltion in the bank, but if he fails to keep the lawn in decent shape, well, the neighbors are going to be seen peering over the shrubbery. and nudging their bib-overalled wives to take a break from their inces­sant bulb planting and come look, saying things such as, "Well, they're not exactly the premier Catholic university we mistook them for. Why, they can't even water their lawn decent-like, let alone start a medical school." 
But Notre Dame can keep its lawn decent-like, Mr. Neighbor Man. It takes an enormous amount of work and an intricate plan to keep an area this size as green as it is. According to Bill Thistlethwaite, superinten­dent of landscaping, 85 per­cent of Notre Dame's campus is under irrigation. That means more than 1,000 acres of land must be kept in a strong, healthy condition by human-made means. 
Now guess, just guess, how many sprinklers must be employed to maintain this much greenery. And don't count the athletic fields or the golf courses. Go on. Guess• 
Now guess who's wrong. 
According to Thistlcthwaite, there are an impressive 65,000 sprinklers on campus. 
65,000. 
To put that into perspective, the sprinklers are divided into zones, flach containing three to 20 sprinkler heads. A typi­cal American home contains two to three zones. Thistlewaite reports that 
Notre Dame has thousands of  but during the summer, the The summer is  one  of the  
them.  That is  one  way  of  lawn is their livelihood.  main challenges in tur f man- 
understanding the magnitude•  
of an operation that initially  

"We'd like to not hit anyone, but sometimes it happens
seems so simple. During the summer months, There's absolutely no warning so sometimes the maintenance of the lawn 
they do come up and nail somebody." .
at Notre Dame occupies the labor of three staff members. During the-rest of the year, Bill Thistlethwaite they have additional duties, 
superintendent of landscaping 

C 
s
en@ 
O
THE 
Wednesday, October 13, 1999 BSERVER 

tions as dry as they are, this is not a feasible plan. It is physically impossible to run all of the sprinklers at the same time, and with the greater amount of time need­ed to quench this parched land, sometimes the sprin­klers have to be run at incon­venient times, such as during 
·class changes. 
A further factor is that in order to operate a system of this magnitude, much of the sprinkler control is in the hands of everyone's_ favorite inebriated monkey -the computer. The computer often decides when it is time to run, and time to stop. Time to go and time to hop. Hop on Pop. Hop on top of Pop. 
And of course, there are certain sprinklers that can only be turned off by hand, and it takes time to get out to each individual location to turn them off and on. 
One quandary that often strikes people is that on some occasions the sprinkler sys­tem can be seen running in the midst of a great rainfall. Indeed, it. does seem counter­intuitfve, but the reason behind it runs back once more to the quality of the soil and the tremendous dryness and heat of the past summer. 
The rain is oft.times insuffi­cient, according to Thistlethwaitc, and even requires a little extra boost from the sprinklers in order to maintain the healthy lawn that Notre Dame has created. 
Really, and this is where journalism enters head-first into the subjective, the truest root of the problem with sprinklers comes down to the source of the complaint ­ourselves. 
When did we lose our sense of fun'? Did the ether or time smother the inner-child so thoroughly that he/she is so embarrassed to run like a speed-crazy chipmunk across· 
· the grass, and every once in a while get. a little wet in the pants? Can't anyone remem­ber the days when they begged their parents to turn on the sprinklers so they might run through the invit­ing spray with their water wings on? Does the term slip­and-slide mean nothing in this hill-less vista? Perhaps ... perhaps when the sprinklers are blown out at the end of this month, these are the questions that really need to be asked. Perhaps what is really hap• pening here, is happening on the inside. 
page I 5 
AP ENTERTAINMENT BRIEFS 

Photo courtesy of Universal Pictures 
Robert Downey Jr. (right) was rejected release from a prison drug treatment center Tuesday. 
Judge rejects Downey Jr.'s release 
MALIBU, Calif. Robert Downey Jr. 's pleas for a lighter sentence and release from a prison drug treatment center were re~ected_ Tuesday.. 
Judge Lawrence Mira called the actor mampulat1~~ and s_a1d he had already given him several chances to rehabilitate him­self. 
Downey, 34, was sentenced in August to three _y~ars in prison for violating probation from a 1996 drug conv1ct10n. He admitted during a hearing that he had missed scheduled drug tests. 
Neil Young and co. release new album 
NEW YORK 
Crosby, Stills, Nash and Young have a n,ew albu_m on the way this month and a U.S. tour -the bands first smce 1974 -slated to begin in January. 
Asked Tuesday how they have changed to make touring pos­sible now, David Crosby said. ''I'll be awake, for one thing," alluding to his well-publicized, former drug habit. 
Steven Stills said he was finally playing guitar the way he had been striving to for 15 years. "We're a little more mature, compassionate and sensitive of each other's feelings," Graham Nash said. 
Added Neil Young, "We're happy to be together." 
Their new album, "Looking Forward," is scheduled for release Oct. 26. 
Dern claims happiness with Thornton 
NEW YORK Laura Dern of "Jurassic Park" fame says her relationship with "Sling Blade" star Billy Bob Thornton is her safe haven. 
It was a friendship that blossomed, and they are now "very committed to each other," the 32-year-old actress says in Redhook magazine's November edition. 
"It's like, all of a sudden you look at this person who knows you, who you feel safe with, and y~u say, :wo"'.. Wait a minute, I've been thinking about sharmg my hfe with some­one who really knows me and here he is."' 
Dern said she was hurt by rumors that she and Thornton, 44, were involved before his divorce from his fourth wife, who alleged abuse. . 
"They said Billy and I were dating when we had Just met at a Miramax party. I think I said, 'I really liked 'Sling Blade,' (for which Thornton won a screenwriting Oscar in 1997) and the tabloids portrayed it as, 'Honey, I'll mm~t you in the car."' 
The two play a couple in Thornton"s new comedy "Daddy and Them." 
Cuomo writes children's book 
NEW YORK Former New York Mayor Mario Cuomo is spinning his wis­dom to a younger audience these clays. Ile has written a children's book, "The Blue Spruce,'' due out in bookstores next month. "H's a beautiful story," Cuomo says in Tuesday's New York Post. 
"The Blue Spruce" is about a tree uprooted in a windstorm and how a boy and his father try to save it. Cuomo relates the story's lesson -never give up -to his own life as he grew from the son of Italian immigrants into a political leader. 
who walk around campus. 'What's up with that?' 
agement. "We usually try to run zones !'or half an hour at a timn," Thistlcthwaite said. "But it's been so dry and hot that sometimes this summer WP had to go over two hours at a time." 
An additional factor, one that always hinders the progrnss of the landscaping crnw, is the fact that soil in 

this part of Indiana is so sandy. The heat and soil quality together necessitate a great amount of water. And with a great amount of water comes a great number of water-related complaints. 
"I hate to even count the number of complaints we receive," said Thistlethwaite. 
It is to be expected, he admits, because the sprin­klers are possessed of two unfortunate features: They can pop up without notice, and they spray across side­walks. 
But spraying across side­walks is neither as frivolous nor as foolish as it seems. If the sprinkler system had been designed in a manner that avoided all sidewalks, it would then have to employ twice as many sprinklers. The math: 130,000 sprin­klers. 
One would think that sort of sprinkler count could irri­gate Nevada. One would apparently be very, very wrong. And Thistlethwaite also points out that having the sprinklers running across the sidewalks is not the waste of water it appears, because almost all of it runs off the sides of the sidewalk onto the lawn. 
But what about the civil­ians? 
The passer-by? 
The ordinary Joe? 
The typical Jane? 
The Toms, the Dicks, the llarrys? The human clay? The refined monkey-folk? The I Iomo sapiens? The Thinking man? The bipeds? All God's children? What about the people, 
man? What about the peo­ple'? 
Sometimes these things happen. Thal is really what it comes down to. 
"We'd like to not hit any­one, but sometimes it hap­pens," said Thistlethwaite. "There's absolutely no warn­ing so sometimes they do come up and nail somebody." 
Thistlcwaite has found himself the victim of these ambushes himself, so he understands that some might find it unpleasant. 
Another question that 
comes into the landscaping 
headquarters fairly often is why the sprinklers run when they do. There arc a number of reasons available. 
Th11 normal and greatly preferred time to run the sprinkler is from 5:30 a.m. to 6 a.m. However, with condi­
1­
1 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, October 13, 1999 
I 
... NATIONAL LEAGUE CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES 
After delay, Atlanta takes Game I from New York 

.. 
Greg Maddux pitched seven solid innings to pick up the win in Game 1 of the best­of-seven series. Maddux improved to 10-9 lifetime in the postseason. 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA 
Leave it to Greg Maddux to bring pitching back to this postseason. And leave it to the Atlanta Braves to remind the New York Mets who's boss in the National League. 
Maddux shut down Mike Piazza and the Mets for seven innings and John Rocker sprinted from the bullpen to finish them off, giving the Braves a 4-2 victory Tuesday night in Game 1 of Lhe NL Championship Series. 
After two days in which baseball fans across the country saw Boston and Cleveland combine for 50 runs in two AL playoff games, Maddux and the Braves showed what really wins in October. 
Maddux, Mike Remlinger and Rocker combined on a six-hitter as the Braves beat New York for the 10th time in 13 meetings this year. Atlanta, which sent the Mets into a late tailspin that almost cost them the wild-card spot, has defeated them in 14 of the last 15 matcbups at Turner Field. 
Piazza returned to the lineup after missing the final two games of the first-round win over Arizona because of a swollen left thumb. He drove in the Mets' only run with a groundout and finished O-for-4. 
Piazza did not get the ball out of the infield. The Braves also stole three bases against the All-Star catcher N he made a poor throw on one attempt and didn't even make a throw on the other. 
A crowd of 44,172 -it was 6,000 short of capacity, perhaps held down by an all-day rain that caused a four­minute delay at the start -saw Atlanta win the opening game of the NLCS at home. The previous two years, the Braves lost Game 1 at home and eventually lost the series. 
Every year since 1991, the team that won Game 1 went on to win the NLCS. Atlanta has been in every one of' those best-of-7 series. 
Game 2 will be Wednesday afternoon with Kevin Millwood, who pitched a one-hitter against Houston in the opening round, starting for the Braves against Kenny Rogers. 
Maddux gave an all-around perfor­mance in improving to 10-9 lifetime in the postseason. He beat the team that got eight straight hits off him Sept. 29 at Shea Stadium, put down a perfect sacrifice bunt and made several nice fielding plays. 
Walt Weiss, making his first start since the last day of the regular sea­son, had three hits and stole a base for the Braves. He doubled and scored on Gerald Williams' single for a 2-1 lead in the fifth and, after Eddie Perez homered in· the sixth, added an RBI single in the eighth. 
That was plenty for Rocker to pro­tect for a save. As is his custom, he ran in to relieve and, with a runner on sec­ond, threw fastballs of 97 mph, 94 and 97 to strike out Olerud. 
He allowed an unearned run in the ninth on Todd Pratt's two-out single. · A day earlier, Rocker was one of the most vocal Atlanta players, wondering aloud how !\lets man ager Bobby Valentine "can sav a word" about the Braves. · 
Williams singled home the tiebreak­ing run in the fifth after Weiss doubled and Maddux sacrificed. Later in the inning, losing pitcher Masato Yoshii was pulled. After leaving the dugout, he broke a bat and smashed a couple of' chairs. 
Perez homered off Pat Mahomes in the sixth, right after shortstop Hey Ordonez and second baseman Edgardo Alfonzo turned a nifty double play. 
The Braves took a 1-0 lead after two batters. Williams singled up the middle on the first pitch and quickly tested Piazza, stealing well ahead of the catcher's one-hop throw to the wrong side of the bag. 
Bret Boone followed with an RBI sin­gle and when Chipper Jones walked, pitching coach Dave Wallace marched to the mound and Orel llershiser began warming up. Yoshii settled down right away, retiring 12 of the next 13 batters. 
The Observer accep~ classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for con tent without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
THE UNIVERSITY CLUB on ND HOUSES HOUSES HOUSES SPRING·BREAK 2000 Don't get tangled in a spiderweb campus is looking for dependable "THE MILLENIUM" over break. Miss you girls! love the bus help. Must be able to work Fri. DOMUS PROPERTIES HAVE A NEW DECADE ... NCE IN TRAV-Marys.
NOTICES TICKETS 
& Sat. evenings. Meals provided. AVAILABLE 5,6,7,8 & 10-BDRM EL.FREE TRIPS.FREE Apply within. HOUSES FOR THE MEALS!JAMAICA,CANCUN,FLORI BananaHead -I loves ya. -LP THE COPY SHOP '00-01 SCHOOL YEAR. ONLY 15 Wallted: Three USC GAs Call Tim DA.BARBADOS, BAHAMAS.SIGN LaFortune Student Center LEFT. CALL 634-4853 UP BY NOV. 5 FOR 2 FREE My head is going to explode. I can PHONE 631-COPY 274-1501 OR 234-2436, ASK FOR TRIPS AND FREE MEALS! not take the stress.
FOR RENT 
www.CopyShopND.com KRAMER FOR SHOWING. 1800-426-7710 Store Hours ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE WWW.SUNSPLASHTOURS.COM Jeanine and Sean. Mon-Thur: 7:30arn-Midnight HOME FOR Wanted 2 USC tickets Call Chuk Sittin' in a tree; Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm ND-SMC EVENTS. 4-6 student rental houses. Lots of 634-4786 For SALE 2 tixs all games 272-K-I-S-S-i-N-G ... Sat Noon-6:00pm VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. extras. Huge Party Room. 6306 Sun; Noon-Midnight 243-0658. Washer/Dryer, etc. Spring Break 2000 Free Trips & 
Dave 291-2209. USC Ticket Needed!!! Meals. HOMES CLOSE TO CAMPUS WANTED NOTRE DAME FOOT-I need a GA ticket for my gradfa-Jamaica,Cancun,Bahamas,BarbadLOST & FOUND http: 1/mmmrentals. homepage.com/ BALL TICKETS ther. Please call Dave at X 3636 os,Florida,Padre.Book now for Free 232-2595 271-1526 Meals & 2 Free Trips.Book before 
FOR SALE 
Set of keys lost outside NEED 2 TIX FOR USC. Dec. 17 for LOWER PRICES!! stadium Saturday. If found THAT PRETTY PLACE, Spring Break Specials!Bahamas CALL MARY 219-257-1141. 1 800-426-7710 please call Drew at 247-1293 Bed and Breakfast Inn has space Party Cruise 5 Days $2791 Includes www.sunsplashtours.com 
available for football/parent wknds. fv\salsl SELL & BUY GA FOOTBALL TICK· NEED 1 ouse TIX for family 5 Rooms with private baths, $80-Awesome ETS Will pay top dollar. Call Matt at Buongiorno, Principessa! $115, Middlebury, 30 miles from Beaches,N1ghtlife!Cancun & 277-6619 219 273-2802. 
WANTED 
campus. Toll Road Exit #107, 1-Jamaica 7 Nights From $399! Brooke and Sarah, keep HC Hall 
800-4 18-9487. Florida NEED 2 use TIX!! rocking. Browse icpt.com for Springbreak $129!springbreaktravel.com call Tim 634-0959 "2000". ALL destinations 1-800-678-6386 FOR SALE Julia. don't be scared. Chuk won't offered.Trip Participants,Student 5/6 BDRM HOMES."00·01YR 272-Elton John & hurt you when he drives you horn Orgs & Campus Sales Reps want­6551 FOR SALE BC College tix 
PERSONAL
ed.Fabulous parties.hotels & N.D. FOOTBALL TIX Best Prices I am so full of negative negativity. prices.Call Inter-Campus 800-327-CALL 271-9412 AM -232-2378 6013 PM • 288-2726 Gay, Lesbian and Bisexual Would that be positivity? 
68DRM$150 person.272-6306 FOR SALE students of ND/SMC meeting each 
N.D. FOOTBALL TIX Thurs. For info call: You got to accentuate the postive 
CALL271-9412 (877)631-SOUT The Early Childhood Development ND football tix for sale. eliminate the negative Center at _Notre Dame, locted at Sublet: Roomy one bedroom Phone Cards, 669 min/$20 AM • 232-2378 FAX IT FAST!!! 18680 Bulla Road.is looking for col­Campus View apartment: $3B5.00 243-9361 or 258-4805 PM -288-2726 Sending & Receiving Chas likes dude for dudes 
lege students to work part time or monthly. Call Stacy at Campus at full time during Fall break week, View or John Hill at 683-5699 Beautiful brass bed.queen size.with I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME THE COPY SHOP Givas Las Vegas 10/18-22/99. days; 616n82-3314. orthopedic mattress set and deluxe GAMES.2726551 LaFortune Student Center If you are interested in more infor­frame,New,_never used.still in plas-Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1 I have no idea what that previous mation.please contact Thayer tic.$235 219·862-2082 BUYING and SELLING ND FOOT-FAX IT FAST!!! classified means Kramer.Program Director.at 631-ENTIRE HOME FOR FOOTBALL BALL TICKETS. 3344 tor more information.A great WEEKENDS 2773097 GREAT PRICES. CALL 289-8048 three down. seven to go way to eam extra money while MAC 520 Powerbook-Y2K compli-CHILD CARE OPENINGS IN MY playing with and assisting young NICE FURNISHED HOMES FOR ant-$350. Stylewriter printer $75. FOR SALE HOME. Connolly's paper week from hell children. NOW OR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR Both seldom used. 287-7928 N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS NEAR ND. continues ... 
2773097 CALL 271-9412 233-2704. until break 
Wednesday, October 13, 1999 The Obser11er . SPORTS page 17 
AMERICAN LEAGUE CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES 
Yankees' O'Neill expects to return for Game I 
better knowing what it is. Zimmer, trainer Gene there." O'Neill was injured in the
Associated Press 
lfof'orn, it was like 'I don't want Monahan and team physician The Yankees can make roster final week of the season at to do too much. I might tear Dr. Stuart Hershon as the team changes until 10 a.m. Tampa when he ran into a low
NFW YOHK something.· It's going to be worked out for its opener Wednesday and Torre said fence in foul territory.
Paul O'N<dll's brokon rib has them. It is there when I wake against the Roston Red Sox. they would wait until the dead­He played the lirst two games
improved and he expects to be 
up in the morning; it is there "It felt pretty good," he said, line to make a decision. of the division series against
in tlw lineup Wedrrnsday night 
when I go to bed at night." "I had some batting practice, I "He said he felt pretty good." Texas. going 2-for-8. Torre satfor the start of tlrn Anrnrican O'Neill look about two dozen threw, I ran. If I don't feel I Torre said of O'Neill. "Probably him out for Game 3 at Texasl.cagwi championship series. 
swings in the batting cage can play and help my team as good as he did in the early and after the Yankees returned"It's bdter today than a few 
Tuesday before manager Joe win. I won't play. If I worry part of the Texas series. He home, he learned of the brokendays ago," tlrn Yankeos' right 
Torm, bench coach Don about it, I shouldn't be out gave himself a good workout." rib diagnosis Monday.
fielcllir said Tuesday. "I feel 

nike.com 

Have you turned your prison-like dorm room into a shrine to sports? Has anyone ever eaten it attempting a· skateboard trick named after you? Is your school mascot or your favorite player's number one of your 18 tattoos? Whatever it is, if it combines your personality and style with sports, we want to know about it. And you'll want to tell us about it if you're into free stuff. All you have to do to get In the game is e-mail us a photograph that shows off your individual sports style. Every day four people have a shot at winning a Nike bike messenger bag. If you've got one of the top five images of the week you'll win a Nike Triax 300 watch. And if you really kick ?#l, you could win a custom sports trip for two, to any event, any place. For more details and official contest rules, log on to nlke.com/fame15, 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, October 13, 1999 
taking it up the middle we saves to keep the squad in the should have been looking match. Irish goalkeeper Gerick
Soccer 

MIKE HARRIS/The Observer Freshman midfielder Alan Lyshawa dribbles away from an opponent in a recent game. 
Football 
continued from page 28 
"I think everyone of us, regardless of where we grew up, wherever we were at that time, has had some access or some chance to see a USC­Notre Dame game," Davie said, "It doesn't matter whether you were in Arizona, Florida or Indianapolis, you had access to that. I think that makes it unique." 
Through the years, the likes of O.J. Simpson, Marcus Allen, Mike Garrett, Anthony Davis and Frank Gifford have wreaked havoc on Irish defenses. 
There have been games that decided national champi­onships, games that live in the lore of Notre Dame history and others that were lops_ided. 
Older Notre Dame fans can vividly remember the Irish blanking the Trojans 51-0 en route to the 1966 national title or holding Simpson to a career-low 55 yards rushing in 1967. They recall being denied national titles by the Trojans in 1964 and 1970. 
When television played sec­ond fiddle to the radio and long before the current con­tract with NBC, Irish fans could always see their team battle with the Trojans. In fact, the first game ever televised coast-to-coast was Notre Dame's 19-12 victory over USC in 1951. 
The newer generation of Notre Dame Nation have had mixed emotions about their rivals from out west. From 1983-95, the Irish never lost to the Trojans, recording a 12-0­1 record in that span. The only blemish was a 17-17 tie in 1994. 
But in the last three years. it's been a different story. In Lou Holtz's last game as coach in 1996, six days after 
th11 hiring of Davie, the Irish suffered a 27-20 overtime defeat at the hands of the Trojans. Notre Dame led 14-6 with 11 minutes and 40 sec­onds remaining but two lost fumbles -one at the USC 1­yard line and another at the Notre Dame 12-yard line ­prematurely stalled offensive series. The Irish were still ahead 20-12 but Jim Sanson kicked the extra point wide to the left to give the Trojans hope. USC tied the game and went on to win 27-20 in over~ time. Instead of going to the Fiesta Bowl, the Irish season and Holtz's tenure had ended. 
"We had a lot riding on that football game," Davie, the defensive coordinator in '96, recalled, "It was hard, particu­larly on the defense because we had played really well in that game and then we ran out of gas at the end. That was a devastating loss." 
Two years ago, in the midst of a 2-4 start, the Irish hung with the Trojans until an Adam Abrams' field goal sealed the 20-17 USC victory. And then last year, with two backup quarterbacks who had little experience running the offense, the Irish saw their BCS chances fade away in a 10-0 loss. 
Regardless of their current records, the Notre Dame and USC players and coaching staffs continue to mark their calendars for their annual showdown. Though neither team is ranked, this year's match-up will still have signifi­cance for both squads. 
"This is a one-year, one-time event of people from all over the country," Davie said on Tuesday, "You think about the 
L.A. Coliseum and Notre Dame Stadium. You think about who's on those sidelines. There's some glitter with it, there's some glamour with it and there's been some big­time players." 
Please Recycle 
continued from page 28 
goals in less than a minute. 
Braun tallied the tying goal at the 15:36 mark unassistnd to even the score at 1-1. · Rodriguez scored the go­ahead goal just 59 seconds later on a play set up by Braun. 
The [rish clung to a 2-1 lead until the final seconds, before the Crusaders put the ball in the net to for the 2-2 tie. 
"We didn't pressure the ball at the end," Rosso said. "It was our fault that we didn't get out there fast enough to clear the ball. Instead of playing small ball we should have been look­ing for the clear and instead of . wide." 
The Irish dominated offen­
sively in the first half, out­
shooting the Crusaders 10-3, 
but let up in the second half, 
managing to put only five shots 
on goal. 
"After our 2-1 lead in the 
first half we should have been 
able to get one or two more 
goals," Braun said. "We should 
have been able to secure the 
win." 
Notre Dame failed to capital­
ize on any scoring opportuni­
ties in overtime and were able 
to come up with just three 
shots on goal. 
Crusader goalkeeper Ken 
Kirleis played a pivotal role for 
Valparaiso, coming up with 10 Short tallied three stops. 
Braun's goal marks his eighth of the season. 13raun leads the Irish in scoring as well as total points and has been a key player on the Irish front line in recent wins. The forward starter has tallied at least one goal or assist in each of Notre Dame's last five out­ings. 
Rodriguez's goal is his first of the season. 
Tuesday match with Valparaiso is the last non-con­ference game of the season for the Irish. With a 3-1-1 confer­ence record, he Irish are look­ing ahead to six Big East matches to round out the regu­lar season. 

HOMES FOR RENT 
-Domus Propeties has two, five, six,and nine bedroom student housing available 
-Student neighborhoods close to 
campus -Security systems provided -Well maintained homes -Maintenance staff on call 
Available for the 2000/200 I school year 
Contact Kramer (219) 274-150 I or (219) 234-2436 

Domino's Pizza 1627 Edison Road, South Bend, IN 46637 
271-0300 
STUDY BREAK SPECIAL! 
Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday Only 
Enjoy Your Break! Study Hard For Midterms. 
r--------------------,
I 2 Large Pizzas w / Cheese I 
I I 
I $899 I 
I I $1 Per Topping I I I expires 10/14/99 I
L ____________________J 
Wednesday, October 13, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
NFL 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Young out indefinetly for 49ers 
Paterno silences 
Associated Press 
SANTA CLARA, Calif. 
Steve Young's concussion is more serious than originally thought and as much as the San Francisco 49crs quarter­back wants to play, there's no telling when or if his doctors will let him. 
So far, they've been reluc­tant to clear him to play and coach Steve Mariucci said Monday that Young probably will miss his third straight game this week. 
"Evidently, thoy don't feel this is the appropriate time to let him start banging around,"Mariucci said. "I know we're all bning very con­snrvative and they are too lrncause of the f'rnquency of the concussions. They'rn tak­ing their time. They're trying to make .sure that when they say yes, it's a go." 
Mariucci reiterated that even if' Young eventually receives medical clearance, thn team may continue to hold him out for an indefinite peri­od just to make sure he's all right. 
Young made clear he's ~nx­ious to get back on the held but conceded hn's having difli­Clllty persuading his doctors. 
"I want to play,"he said. "I don't want to watch and I've got to get cleared. That's _a process that the doct.or 1s going to go through. Iles the 0110 that has to clear me and I've got to ligurn out how to do that. 
Young, who turned :{8 Monday. sustained his fourth concussion in three years when he was leveled Sept. 27 by blitzing Arizona cornerback Aeneas Williams. 
Though the 49ers initially described the concussion as mild, Young was knocked out for several seconds by the force of the blow. Concussions accompanied by unconscious­ness are almost always consid­ered severe. 
"The fact that he was knocked out may be a little different than what he's had in the past," Mariucci said. "We think he's going to play and hopefully he will soon, but until he's cleared, we 'II contin­ue to rest him." 
However, there are no plans for Young to be evaluated by his neurologist until Wednesday, making it high1y likely that Jeff Garcia will get the bulk of thn practice reps for Sunday's game against Carolina. 
Garcia believed Young would be back by now but that hasn't happened. 
"I think if it continues into this week, then it does become a situation where it is more of a long-term thing than what everybody assumed would be a one or two week situation," he said. "I think if it goes into this week, then I think we're looking at potentially a change in the future but it's .hard to say." 
Meanwhile, Young's agent, Leigh Steinberg, raised the possibility that Young may have been susceptible to a more serious concussion because of the pounding he took against New Orleans the week before the knockout blow in Arizona. 
In the Sept. 19 game against the Saints, Young endured a sustained pounding, absorbing 21 hits, including five sacks and a ferocious helmet-to-hel­met blow from Chris Hewitt. 
... 
0 0 
L ell 
w 
s 
c; 
h 
C> C> 
I 
s 
I I 
I Boston University I 
Duke ~iversity
I I Indiana Universities I 
Loyola Universities
I I New York University I 
Ohio State University
I I Penn state-Dickinson I 
Saint Louis University
I I Syracuse University I I 
Texas Wesleyan I Thomas M. Cooley
I I 
Univ. of Akron I univ. of CA-Berekely
I I 
Univ. of CA-Hastings I 
University of Chicago
I I 
Univer,;ity of Miami I 
University of Pittsburgh I I Univ. of Pennsylvania I 
univ. of Southern CA
I 
I Yale Law School 
L_ ___ 
I 
I Chicago-Kent (IIT) I 
I
Harvard Law School 
Lewis & Clark 
Michigan State University 
Nortl1eastern University 
Oklahoma City 
Pepperdine University 
St. Mary's University-TX 
Temple University 
Thomas Jefferson 
I Tulane Law School I 
I
Univ. of Buffalo 
I Univ. of CA-Davis I 
I
Univ. of CA-Los Angeles 
I Univ. of Connecticut 
I I
University of Kentucky I University of Texas-Austin 
I 
I
Valparaiszo University I I
Washington & Lee 
I 
Yeshiva University I 
_________________! 
"I do think think there's a cumulative effect with those 
PSU before OSU
games back-to-back," 
Steinberg said. "I think he got hit much harder against New Orleans and then the hit in Arizona, those things are causing him some problems. He's still feeling the effects." 
Last Wednesday, Young admitted he was still bothered by post-concussion symptoms such as headaches, grogginess and fatigue. 
Young's neurologist, Stanford's Dr. Gary Steinberg, who is not related to the agent, has made no recom­mendation yet on whether Young should retire. Concussions, especially if they're bunched together, can have long-term health reper­cussions, including premature senility and other brain dys­function. 
"Steve still hopefully can play. He's still got that com­petitive fire," Leigh Steinberg said. "But we're treating this very carefully. We'll just react to whatever the doctors say." 
Leigh Steinberg added that Young understands the seri­ousness of his medical situa­tion and is prepared to deal 
with whatever his neurologist 
He said his "It is a big week. But this
ultimately recommends. 
team is
"He's 38. He's a mature per­
swarmed 
son who's not as wild and 
with atten­
reckless as the Steve Young of 
tion-seekers
the early 1980s," Leigh 
-not just
Steinberg said. "He's taking 
reporters,
this very seriously and he·s 
but from fans
taking time to study all the 
and auto­
issues. 
g r a p h
"Yes, he does want to play 
hounds, as
football but he also under­
well.
stands he has a wonderful life 
"You can't
waiting for him after football. 
get away
So I would say he's being calm 
from it. It got
and reflective right now, and 
to the point
so, it's up to the doctors." 
where we've got to get some control over it. You guys 
said he was pleased with his team's performance. 
Or, probably closer to the point, he could be worried about another meeting with the No. 18 
Buckeyes, a rivalry that 
has turned spirited in the 
six years since Penn State 
joined the Big Ten. 
The Buckeyes are 4-2 
against the Lions since 
1993, beating them 28-9 
last year and embarrassing 
them 38-7 three years ago. 
In 1997, the No. 1 Lions 
came from behind to pull 
out an emotional 31-27 vic­
tory. 
The Buckeyes have lost two games already this sea­son, but Paterno thinks this could be the best team Penn State has played so far. The Lions, meanwhile, haven't been entirely convincing in going undefeated. 
They needed a blocked field goal with 4 seconds left to defeat Pittsburgh and a late miracle to overcome Miami. And they strug­
gled to put year. myselfand this a w a y 
Indiana
whole team, we 're 
and Iowa.
taking a different 
Paterno approach. Sometimes said he thinks
we put too much 
they've
emphasis on 
been worn this game.,, out. "I said, 'You guys
Derek Fox 
get caughl
Penn State safety 
up in your 
studies, get 
s o m e sleep.' I think we have been a tired football team. I said, 'Get some sleep, get away from people,"' he said. 
But Derek Fox, a Lions safety from Akron, Ohio, said they're treating it like any other week, while in previ­ous seasons, they've put Ohio State "up on a pedestal." 
"It is a big week. But this year, myself and this whole team, we're taking a differ­ent approach. Sometimes, we put too much emphasis on this game," Fox said. 
Buckeyes coach John Cooper, facing a third loss, is playing different mind games than Paterno. lie said Monday that in an 1iven match, Ohio State couldn't beat the Lions -sending his t1mm into a lather. 
"John's been in this busi­ness a long time," Paterno said. "I think .John's just try­ing to get an edge for his team. that's all." 

on't Miss It! 
October 14, 1999 11 a.m. -3 p.m. 1999 Midwest Association of Pre-Law Advisors (MAPLA) Caravan 
at 
The University of Notre Dame 
keep forgetting they're still college students. LaVar Arrington walks down the street and he's besieged by people." 
"You're the first people that would crucify them if they don't go to class or they flunk out of .school or some­thing happens to them. I've got to protect them," he said. "This is just a week I felt I had to get a grip on it." 
But the three players speaking for the team this week said doing interviews isn't a big deal, so there may be more to the ban than Paterno worrying about overwhelmed players. 
He could be upset with No. 2 Penn State's lackluster 31­
JACC-Concourse  
r : \  --------1 BELOW ARE THE NAMES OF A FEW OF THE I I100 LAW SCHOOLS SENDING REPRESENTATIVES I TO NOTRE DAME I  

Associated Press 
STATE COLLEGE, Pa. 
Penn State's players say 
their showdown with No. 18 
Ohio State is just one more 
game on the schedule. Coach 
J o e Paterno is treating it a little dif­ferent. 
For the first time in recent memory, 

t h e 
Paterno
Nittany Lions' coach of 50 years is barring most of his players from talking to reporters in the days before Saturday's game at Beaver Stadium. 
"I just think they need a little time to themselves," Paterno said Tues.day. "l think this thing has gotten a little bit ridiculous, the amount of time they have had to give uptoit." 
7 victory over lowa on Saturday, when the Lions (6­0, 2-0 Big Ten) needed a fourth-down stand to stave off a late rally from the 1-4 llawkeyes -even though he 

CANCUN & MAZATLAN $499, UP SKI -CRESTED BUTTE $329 
1-800-SURFS·UP
www.studentex ress.com 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, October 13, 1999 
MEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Keough looks to continue good play 
By RACHAEL PROTZMAN Spores Writer 
Coming off a stunning shut­out tie with Keenan on Sunday, Keough will look to the continue its defensive domination with a win over Morrissey tonight. 
The Kangaroos were able to keep Keenan from scoring, resulting in a 0-0 tie. 
"Clearly, our strength is defense. We arc the first team to shut-out Keenan in a few years," Keough captain Wade Laffey said. "We're obviously proud of that." 
Leading the Kangaroo defense is Kevin McAbee and Travis Alexander. who con­tributed key interceptions in the Keenan game. Linebacker Mike Perrone and corner Paul Didio add to the effective Keough defense. 
"Our offense hasn't been able to compliment our defense's hard play," Laffey said. "We're looking to improve that against Morrissey." 
With a record of 1-1-1, the Kangaroos are uncertain of playoff' action. 
"A win increases our chances of being in the play­offs and a loss doesn't help," Laf~ey said. "A win is criti­cal. 
Morrissey fell to 0-3 follow­ing a loss to Alumni on Oct. 3 and hopes to improve offen­sively as it looks for a win today. 
Alumni vs. O'Neill 
Alumni looks to remain undefeated as it faces O'Neill, which has yet to gain a win. 
The Dawgs, following a 14-0 victory over Stanford, are now 3-0. O'Neill stands at 0­3. 
"We're not going to be satis­fied unless we end the season with a win," Alumni captain Pat Paquette said. 
With the Dawg defense hav­ing yet to give up a point this year, that goal is very possi­ble. 
Freshman Jason Halverson added to both the offense and defense in Alumni's win over Stanford. 
. "Our goal was to get to the stadium this year and now it's very realistic," Paquette said. "We have a good shot at win­ning the whole thing. We could have the No. 1 seed. We are playing to win against O'Neill." 
"Our whole team has been playing well," O'Neill captain Drew Lais said. "We're just out there having fun." 
O'Neill looks to gain its first win, coming off a 15-0 loss to Dillon. 
"Alumni could be too confi­dent c"oming in," Lais said. "This could work to our advantage. We hope to get the surprise effect." · 
I Want to work for Sports? 1-4543 I 
,-

Pulliam Journalism Fellowships 
Graduating college seniors are invited to apply for the 27th annual Pulliam Journalism Fellowships. We will grant IO-week summer internships to 20 journalism or liberal arts majors in the August 1999-June 2000 graduating classes. 
Previous internship or part-time experience at a newspaper is desired. or other demonstration of writing and reporting ability. Those who go through the Fellowships often find new professional opportunities opening up at other newspapers during·and after the program. Wmners will receive a $5,500 stipend and will work at either The Indianapolis Star or The Arizona Republic. Opportunities for online training are available, along with reporting experience at our major metropolitan daily newspapers. 
Early-admissions application postmark deadline is Nov. 15, 1999. By Dec. 15, 1999, up to five early-admissions winners will be notified. Al! other entries must be postmarked by March I, 2000, and will be consid­ered with remaining early-admissions applicants. Successful applicants will be notified on or before April 1, 2000, and will be asked to respond immediately with a letter of intent, at which time one-third of the cash grant will be mailed to the Fellow. 
To request an application packet, visit our Web site, e-mail us or write: 

Well site; \\ wv. .,1.m1. v. s.i:11m/pjf t-mail: Jl.\llli.nn(a ,:.u11c\~s.l·um 
Russell B. Pulliam Pulliam Fellowships Director Indianapolis Newspapers P.O. Box 145 Indianapolis, IN 46206-0145 
Ill , ••, D1111111 c1 ¦ 1111r 12111111r1/U11rad11 D111 D1rl11 Fall lr1all 
Bring your computer to the OIT Solutions Center in the CCMB before leaving for break. The fixes can be done while you are gone! 
Computers purchased from the 0/T Solutions Center after January 1, 1997 are guaranteed to be Y2K compliant and will have their BIOS upgraded free ofcharge. 
Free copies of Norton 2000 testing software are still available at the OIT Solutions Center, Campus Computer Clusters, or from www.nd.edu/-y2k. 
Wednesday, October 13, 1999 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 

FORTUNE
10~~ ,. ~PANifJ 
Tl WDIII FOi 
CONSULTING• TAX• ASSURANCE 
Ell ERNST& YOUNG 
FROM THOUGHT TO FINISH.TM 
~ 199'9 Emsr & You NG LLP 
------~---.--.---­
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS-Wednesday, October 13, 1999 
-~ NFL 
Jacksonville defense fights for respect despite schedule 
--. 
Associated Press 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. 
The skeptics say the Jacksonville Jaguars haven't proved much on defense, stop­ping mediocre quarterbacks on struggling teams. 
The realists say that's all the Jaguars need to do the rest of the season, thanks to a cushy schedule with only one remain­ing opponent above .500. 
Five weeks into the season, the Jaguars are 4-1 with the league's top-ranked defense. Jacksonville has held opponents without a touchdown in three games. Only the undefeated St. Louis Rams have allowed fewer points, and they've played one less game. 
Still left on the schedule: two games against Cleveland (0-5), two against Cincinnati (1-4). two against Baltimore (2-3) and one each against Denver (1-4) and Atlanta U-41. Tennessee (4-1) is the only team left on the sched­ule with a winning record through five weeks. 
Indeed. the path to home-field 
advantage in the playoffs looks 
easy, although nobody in the 
Jaguars organization is relaxing. 
"You can't predict too much," 
said Michael Huyghue, the 
Jaguars' senior president of foot­ball operations. "Anyone who looked at this season at the beginning would be in dis~elief to see St. Louis in first place. We're not trying to be overly humble, but it is tough to vvin in the NFL And so far, every week, it's been ditlicult for us to win, too." 
Since its season-opening 41-3 rout over San Francisco, each of Jacksonville's games has been decided in the fourth quarter. 
That's thanks in large part to a defense that has shown it can take advantage of opportunities against the Kordell Stewarts and Rick Mirers of the world. In the 16-6 victory over the Jets on Monday night, the Jaguars allowed only 230 yards. 
The defense has also started to develop something of a swagger. a drastic turnaround for a unit ranked .in the bottom third of the league the last two years. 
"We can be the No. 1 defense 
in the league," safety Donovin 
Darius said. "That's our goal, 
and we feel we can get there." 
"They should not have had the 
field goals," said cornerback 
Aaron Beasley, who has gotten 
his season off to a Pro Bowl-cal­
iber start. 
Once again, the offense strug­
gled, settling for three field goals 
Men's Basketball Walk-on Tryouts Monday, Oct. 25: 7-9 p.m. in aux. gym Tuesday, Oct. 26: 6-8 p.m. in arena Wednesday, Oct. 27: 6-8 p.m. in arena Questions? Call 1-5359 
and just one touchdown from a unit with some of the most potent weapons in the league. 
For now, the pass-and-catch combination of Mark Brunell and Jimmv Smith has been over­taken by the punt-and-cover duo of Bryan Barker and Reggie Barlow. For the third time in two weeks, Barker angled a high punt to the sideline and Barlow raced downfield to down it inside the opponent's 5-yard line. 
Barker also had an 83-yard punt that might have been the play of the game in the yawner against the Jets. 
It certainly worked in the scheme devised by coach Tom Coughlin, who has chosen to win with field position, defense and a good kicking game. 
So far, the strategy is working. But as usual, nobody is looking too far down the road. 
"Tho fact is that, in most of the games we have left, we'll be competitive and in many, we'll be favored to win," Iluyghue said. "But we're not looking ahead. The reality is that Philadelphia shouldn't have beaten Dallas last week and they did. Upsets happen every week, and certainly we're susceptible to that." 
Clarity ('onsulting, Inc. 
Looking for a career in a small but nationally-recognized consulting firm 
Clarity Consulting, Inc. with offices in downtown Chicago, specializes in the design and implementation of leading-edge Windows-based client/serv­er informalion systems. Clarity will be discussing career opportunities 1n an on-campus presentation. 
Clarity is a young, talented, entrepreneurial company that has extensive experience in custom application development, strategic planning, technical design and project management within the Fortune 500 community. 
Clarity is a Microsoft Solution Provider Partner Clarity consultants have diverse educational and technical backgrounds, including Computer Science, Engineering, Business, and Liberal Arts. 
If you want an exciting career which offers continuous challenges and a great future, mark our presentation on your calendar. Visit www.claritycon.com for more information. 
Date: Wednesday, October 13th• Time: 7 pm -9 pm• Place: Morris Inn, Alumni Room Refreshments will be served 
~;11, 
IMicr..
foZilNI:
~NlUtTING 
Paf1ner, 
The Department of Romance Languages and Literatures and the Theodore M. Hesburgh Library Present the Inaugural Lecture in the O'Grady Latin American Literature Lecture Series: 
''Summa Mistraliana'' 
by Grfnor Rojo 
Uni versidad de Chile 
4:30 Thursday, October 14 Hesburgh Auditorium 
Hesburgh Center for International Studies Reception to Follow 
The lecture will be given in English. The series is generously funded by Robert and Beverly O'Grady. Assistance for the reception is provided by the Kellogg Institute for International Studies and the College of Arts and Letters. Professor Rojo, the author of Los Orf genes del teatro hispanoamericano contemporaneo ( 1972), Muerte y resurreccfon del teatro chileno: 1973-1983 ( 1985 ), Critica del exilio. Ensayos sobre literatura latinoamericana actual ( 1989), Poesia chilena del fin de la modemidad (1993) and Dfran que esta en la gloria ... (Mistral), will lecture on the work, persona and ideological aesthetics of the Nobel Prize-winning writer Gabriela Mistral. 
Wednesday, October 13, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
NBA legend Chamberlain found dead at 63 
more importantly for myself, four other times and were beat­
Associated Press 
someone who l'vq known for en in tho conference final six almost 40 vears," a teary-eyed times.
LOS ANGELES Jerry West: a former teammate Bill Russell and the BostonWilt Chambl'rlain, a center so and now the Lakers vice presi­Celtics almost always seemed tobig, agile and dominant that ~m dent, said at the Forum. be the nemesis of Chamberlain­forced basketball Lo change its Former Lakers star Magic led teams, beating them twice in 
rules and the only player to 
Johnson called Chamberlain one the championship series and five 
scorn J00 points in an !\BA 
of' the greatest sports heroes times in the conference finals.
ganrn, dind Tunsday at 6:~. 
ever. Three times, a series was decid­Chamberlain was found dead "Wilt was my idol, and defi­ed by a ·seventh game thatin his bnd at his Bol-Air home at nitely changed the game of' bas­Boston won by either one or twoabout 12:30 p.rn., police said. 
ketball," Johnson said. "As a points.
Them wern signs that he 
kid, J loved watching him play "Wilt Chamberlain had a great· might have had a heart attack, for Philadelphia." deal to do with the success of
authorities said. Chamberlain 
Chamberlain was such a force the I\JBA," said Red Auerbach,was hospitalized with an irregu­that the NBA changed some of coach of those great Celtics. "Hislar lrnartlH'at in 1992, and his its rulcs, including widening the dominance, power, demeanor agent, Sy Goldberg, said the IIall lane to try to keep him farther and the rivalry with Bill Russellof Farner was on medication. 
from the basket. says it all." 
Known as "Wilt tlw Stilt" and One of his most famous Long after his career ended,"Tlw Big Dippor," tho 7-foot-1 
records is the 100 points he Chamberlain made news by
Chamb1wlain starrnd in the NBA 
scored in the Philadelphia claiming in an autobiography
from 1959 through 1973, when · Warriors' 169-147 defeat of the that he had had sex with 20,000 he played for tho Philadelphia New York Knicks on March 2, women. _
(lator the San Francisco) 
1962, in Hershey, Pa. "The women who I have beenWarriors, 76nrs and Lakers. I le "I spent 12 years in his the most attracted to, the most
later stirred controversy with 
armpits, and I always carried in love with, J've pushed awayboasts of' his sexual exploits. 
that 1-00-point game on my the strongest," the lifelong bach­Chambo rlai11 srnrnd 31,419 shoulders," Darrall Imhoff, the elor said in a 1991 interview
points during his career, a 
former Knicks center, said with The Associated Press. 
rncord until Karnem Abdul­
Tuesdav. "There are about five women I.labbar bro.kn it in 1984. 
"Afte·r I got JllY third foul, I can think of l could have mar­Chamberlain. who never fouled said to one of the oflicials, Willy ried. I cared for them a lot, but out in 1,205 regular-season and Smith, 'Why don't you just give not enough to make a commit­playoff games, holds the record him 100 points and we'll all go ment."
f'or carnnr rebounding with 
home?' Well, we did." Before his death from AIDS in23,924. 
Chamberlain also holds the 1993, Arthur Ashe was critical
"Wilt was one of' the greatost single-game record for of sexually promiscuous athletes 
over. and we will never see 
rebounds, 55, against Boston in like Chamberlain, saying theanother one like him." Abdul­
1960. behavior reinforced racist
Jabbar said. 
Ile averaged 30.1 points a stereotypes.
Chamborlain, who began his game in his career, including a Ashe added that he didn'tprol'essional career with the record 50.4 in the 1961-62 sea­believe Chamberlain's claim,llarlem Clobetrotters in 1958, son with Philadelphia. He also concluding, "I felt more pitywas orw of only two men to win was one of the most versatile big than sorrow for Wilt as histhe MVP and rookie of' the year men ever, leading the league in macho accounting backfired on
awards in the same season 
assists with 702 in 1967-68. him in the form of a wave of(1959-60). He was also MVP in He led his team into the play­public criticism." 
1966 through 1968. He led the offs 13 times, winning two world Wilton Norman Chamberlain
NBA in scoring seven straight 
championships. The first came was born on Aug. 21, 1936, in seasons, 1960-66, and led the in 1966-67 with the Philadelphia Philadelphia. He didn't beginleague in rebounding 11 of his ?Gers, the second in 1971-72 playing basketball until he was14 soasons. 
with the Lakcrs, which won a in the seventh grade. He grew 4"We truly lost one of thP icons record 33 straight games. inches in three months when heof' prot'Pssional basketball and, His teams lost in the finals was 15, and was 6-11 when he 
www.SU::>erjobs.com 


entered Philadelphia's Overbrook High School. 
After leading Overbrook to three public school champi­onships and two all-city titles, Chamberlain became one of the most recruited players ever with over 200 colleges interested. 
He chose the University of Kansas and Hall of .Fame coach Phog Allen. In his first game against the Kansas varsity ­freshmen weren't allowed to compete against other teams then -he scored 50 points before a _packed Allen Fieldhouse crowd of more than 15.000. 
The next vear, Chamberlain scored sf points against Northwestern in his first game, a total he never surpassed in college, partly because of zone defenses designed to keep him from getting the ball. 
As a sophomore, he led the 
1957 .Jayhawks to the NCAA tournament finals, where Kansas lost to unbeaten North Carolina in triple overtime. 
Disgusted by being smothered· by the zone defenses, Chamberlain left Kansas after his junior year and joined the Globetrotters. 
Chamberlain, extremely agile for his size, ran cross-country in high school and was an out­standing high jumper and shot­putter at Kansas. 
He remained active after his NBA career and was considered an outstanding volleyball player. He also ran in the Honolulu marathon recently and compet­ed in a SO-mile race in Canada. 
"We've lost a giant of' a man in every sense of the word," NBA commissioner David Stern said. "The shadow of accomplishment he cast over our game is unlike­ly ever to be matched." 
Reach New Horizons • IIn the Interview-DYNAllitiNiERVJEWING \VORKSHOP Wcdncsdav, October 13, 1999 4:00 -5:30 p.m. RllOM 217 ­DEBARTOLO HALL GAU./ A CO.\fPETJ11J,'£ EDGE'• DEVELOP !A1PRESS11F INTERT'IEW/1\'Ci 1FCHNIQUES.'• Presl:nted by: Olivia Williams, Assistant Director The Career Ce111er All Collc:ges Welcurncf  

Wednesday, October 13, 1999
page 24 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Global resources. local presence. 
The fast tracl( 

To maintain the stature of Warburg Dillon Read as the leading global investment bank, we only hire the best. After completing a rigorous training program, you'll join a strict meritocracy where responsibility 
is given early on and success is 
rewarded with a fast-track 
career in the forefront of global investment banking. 
In order to help you plan your future, representatives from our Sales and Trading Department will soon be visiting the Notre Dame campus for a company presentation. 
Date: Wednesday, October 13th Time: 6:30 pm Location: Morris Inn 
Notre Dame Room 
Apply online at www.wdr.com 
* Warburg Dillon Read 
An investment bank of global intelligence 
Warburg Dillon Read is the brand name for the investment banking division of UBS AG and its investment banking subsidiaries worldwide. In the United States, Warburg Dillon Read LLC, a subsidiary of UBS AG, is a member of NYSE and SIPC. Warburg Dillon Read is an Equal Oppo,t.unity Employer. 
Wednesday, Ocrober 13, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
touclrns the ball, you get excit­his options coming out of that ed." backfield. Get all these things
Fox 
Power. Flexibility. together in a backfield that's 
Explosiveness. Good blocking. so young and you'll have Keith
continued from page 28 
Solid rel:eiving. Exdtement. Jackson going, "Whoa, Nellie." 
dous things. Ifin I gives you And, most obviously, good And I haven't even men­sonrn flexibility ... Ile's a pret­running. tioned that Driver, Howard ty good receivnr. blocks pretty Any coach aims for the last and Jones are the kick and good ... " (not to mention lead­qualifiration in his featured punt returners, respectively, ing the team in rushing), and, back. Get one or two of the for t.he Irish. Or that, due to of .Julius .Jones: "W!rnn he other qualities and he'II like his exceptional play, Driver 
STUDENT SAVINGS Certificate 
Please send me ESPN-The Magazine at the special student rate 
of 26 Issues for $13. (Wow, that's only 50 cents an Issue!) Name.__________________ 
Address _________________ 
City_________State ___ Zip___ 
ESPN The Magazine P.O. Box 37328 
S9JBMA
Boone, IA 50037-0328 
Ballroorr"l 
cc:::::.......
~G 


LaFortune Ballroom 
Wednesday, October 13 8:00 -10:00 p.m. 
Take a Study Break! Free Food and Prizes! 
Sponsored by Student Activities 
now lines up with every spe­cial teams unit. All this just a year after he won games by playing safety on defense. 
These four, along with quar­terback Jarious Jackson, whose phenomenal passing and rushing deserves a col­umn of its own, have placed the Irish 19th in the country in rushing yards per game at 201. 
Bufto stop at the rushing totals really misses the point. 
These guys are all over the field, making plays rushing the ball, catching the ball, block­ing, returning kicks and cover­ing kicks. Dividing time at a position among four guys is tough, but they all make impacts on the game whenev­er they're called to do so. 
Whether it's lloward kePp­ing a drive alive with a catch on a screen or Fisher bruising Oklahoma for 140 yards on the ground or Jones making like Superman and diving into the end zone from somewhere near Senior Bar, these four guys are striking fear into the hearts of defensive coor·dina­tors across the country. 
You know, there's one more old saying l'm going tu toss in here: "When it rains, it pours." 
(t doesn't look like South Bend 's forecast will be clear­ing up for a few years. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NFL 
Philadelphia signs receiver Van Dyke 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA 
The Philadelphia Eagles added experience to their receiving corps Tuesday, sign­ing Alex Van Dyke to a two­year contract. 
Van Dyke, 25, played three seasons with the New York Jets, where he had 25 catches for 211 yards and three touch­downs before being traded to Pittsburgh in March. 
He was released by the Steeler's during the offsnason. He has also returned 21 
kickoffs for 427 yards over his career. 
''I'm looking forward to con­tri bu iing in whatever way they want me to, whether it's on offense, special teams, whatever," said Van Dyke, who compiled 1,854 receiving yards while at the University of Nevada in 1995, an NCAA Division I-A season record. 
To make room for Van Dyke on ihc 53-man roster, ihe Eagles waived widnout Brian Finneran, who had two l:atch­es for 21 yards in limited action this season. 

world drink tomorrow? 
You can help make the choice! At ACNielsen BASES, the world leader in new product evaluation and sales forecasting, we provide state-of-the-art simulated test-marketing services to help clients decide which new consumer packaged goods to produce: how to improve ne". ?nd existing products, and how to market products for maximum results -but ,ts our people who determine how well we perform. If you are analytical, curious, independent, organized, flexible and team-oriented, we'd like to meet you. 
Information Session: 11 /17/99 Interviews: 11 /18/99 
We are seeking outstanding candidates to join us as: 
Marketing Research Analysts 
Westport, Connecticut 
You'll d_o it all: help with stu_dy design, run forecasting models, analyze and summarize results, _prepare d,ent reports and presentations and attend client meetings. This posrt,on can lead to even greater responsibility in client service/ analysis. A Bachelor's degree in majors such as Business, Marketing, a Liberal Arts field, or Social Sciences is required (3.0 minimum cumulatJve GPA) Demonstrated writing and analytical skills are essential. 
Please contact your Career Services Office for further information on our camp_us visit and interview sign-ups. If you are unable to meet with us during our v1s1t, please send your resume to: College Relations, ACNielsen BASES, 50 E. RiverCenter Blvd., Suite 1000, Covington, KY 41011, e-mail: hr@bases.com, 
Fax: (606) 655-6293. 
www.bases.com 
&cJSI~~,0~6~S 
Like Computers? Call Revers at 4-2991 
-----, 
I 
I 
I 
.. 
.... 
page 26 The Obseruer . SPORTS Wednesday, October 13, 1999 
NHL 
Bure picks up two points in Panthers victory 
A••ociated Press 
MONTREAL 
Pavel Bure had a goal and an assist as the unbeaten Florida Panthers beat the Montreal Canadiens 2-1 Tuesday night: 
Florida's Scott l\lellanby was carried off the ire on a stretcher after he slid hard into the boards and hit the back of his head at the end of the game. There was no imme­diate word on h.is condition. 
Bure scored his third goal of the season in the first period and got point No. 500 when he assisted on Lance Pitlick's sec­ond-period goal. Bure left the game midway through the third period after a fall in the Montreal zone and did not return. No details were imme­diately available on his condi­tion. 
The Panthers improved to 3­0-1, while Montreal fell to 1-4­
0. 
Dainius Zubrus scored his first goal of the season for the Canadiens. 
Bure, who missed most of last season when he tore knee ligaments after sitting out in a long contract dispute, has 16 goals and six assists in 15 games for the Panthers since he was traded to Florida by the Vancouver Canucks on Jan. 17. 
The opening goal was vin­tage Bure. After Zubrus let Brian Savage's pass slide back to the point, Bure lifted rookie francis Bouillon's stick to allow the puck to go down the ice. Bure swept in to pick off goalie Jeff Hackett's pass and shot into the open net for a 1­0 lead at 6:57 of the first peri­od. 
Pitlick took Hyan Johnson's pass on a two-on-one to score at the end of a Canadiens' power play at 5: 33 of the sec­ond periocl on a play started bv Bure. 
·zubrus backhanded the rebound of Saku Koivu's shot past Trevor Kidd at 13:12. 
Capitals 5, Flyers 4 
Peter Bondra scored his 14th career hat trick, including the tying and winning goals 58 seconds apart late in the third period, to give the Washington Capitals a victory over the winless Philadelphia Flyers. 
Bondra's slap shot from a tight angle in the left circle ,vent between goaltender John Vanbiesbrouck's legs to tie the game with 3:55 remaining. Then Bondra, after Andrei Nikolishin drew the defense­men. away on a 2-on-2 break, beat Vanbiesbrouck on the stick side, again from the left circle, to win the game with 
2:57 to play. 
Steve Konowalchuk and Richard Zednik also scored for the Capitals, who rallied in the third period for the second consecutive game. They over­came a two-goal deficit to tie Los Angeles on Saturday. 
Mark Recchi assisted on all 
NFL 
Chicago signs forIDer Dallas kicker Boniol 
Associated Press 
LAKE FOREST, Ill. 
Badly in need of a place­kicker, the Chicago Bears on Tuesday came to terms with former Dallas Cowboy Chris Boniol. 
The team said it planned to 
..... 
sign Boniol on Wednesday. 
Jeff Jaeger, the Bears' career leader in field goal per­centage (.759), will be placed on injured reserve or accept an injury settlement. the team said in a release. 
A hip injury sustained in training camp kept Jaeger sidelined until two games ago. He re-injured himself in Sunday's victory at Minnesota. 
Boniol kicked for both Philadelphia and Cleveland in training camp this summer. The last two seasons, he kicked for the Eagles, the Bears' opponent this Sunday. 
With Dallas, he hit 27 of 28 field goal attempts in 1995. In five years in the NFL, he has made 117 of his 145 field goal attempts (.807). 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
INTERl'llATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS 

FREMANTLE, AUSTRALIA 
"The Land Down Under" 
INFORMATION MEETING With Julliet Mayinja, Assistant Director Fr. Wilson Miscamble, C.S.C. Prof. John Halloran 
Wednesday October 13, 1999 102 DeBartolQ 4:45-5:45 P.M. 
APrLlCATIQN DEADLINK DKCF;MDER J, 1222 
four goals for the Flyers, who wasted a big offensive effort after scoring only once in their first three games. 
Eric Lindros gave Philadelphia a 4-3 lead in the second period with his first goal of the season and the team's third power-play score of the game. Prom the right circle, the Flyers captain put the puck just inside the near post as a 4-on-3 advantage ,vas expiring at 14:20. 
Simon Gagne scored twice in the first five minutes, and Valeri Zelepukin had a sec­ond-period, power-play goal for the Flyers. 
Eight minutes into the game, Philadelphia had outshot Washington 8-0. Then the Capitals got organized offen­sively and scored on their first two shots on goal. 
The first came when Dmitri Mironov kept alive a loose puck in front of the net, allow­ing Konowalchuk to score from point-blank range at 
7:23. Then Zednik one-timed a pass from Jan Bulis on a two­on-one break to tie the score at 10:07. 
Bondra gave the Caps a 3-2 lead at 15:37 of the first peri­od with his third goal of the season, a slap shot from the top of the left circle that Vanbiesbrouck misjudged. 
The Flyers were missing center Hod Brind'Amour. who is expected to miss eight weeks after undergoing surgery on his broken left foot Tuesday. Ilrind'Amour will wear a cast for four weeks. 
The Capitals, who were swept in all four games by the Flyers last season, played. without right wing Yogi Svejkovsky. who suffered a strained groin and is listed as day-to-day. 
The Williom and Katherine Devers Pro9ram in Dante Studies presents itsjourth annualfall lecture series: 
t::_:·.J 
DANTE & MODERN ITALIAN ftflj'.f!;IRY~2
.::.:::-::.::;· •,•:-·-:-·-·, 
.):: .:,,:t><F ..:+;::4;,:_t.. 
···.:=:.:.:.-::.· •::,·:•:•...:;:•::,.. ··=,:-:· .:::··;­
:::;::· _.-t.\\Jl::::=:=::::== -==:.: ==: -:=::::::=·==:==·=··:::iii:;r:::;::::::. ·.••.··.·_.•=.·_i~E~:· •={::::~:...._.::.~ ··=•=•·=•-·•·•· :...-::::::::.• 
. /.;:::::::f. ....
''tx:n~:::;~~:~Jt,l:!.,f!t~= 
::=?.:",__._:_·.::;: _{._:;::•::.:;.::?·
.•:·.i\Jit: 
Andrea Ci~-~~relli 
:ii!:~i:i:!i:'s:::,t.:L:. 1 d ----•-•·--uf' <,••.. ••••· ·•·-••••
•~-•-llh~~fa,,~ity 
fi'r_:!_!i_!:_I_;_,_;_~_._i_!:_}_,,
..·_::·.'--··.• 
fffiflj;:J,~'c~ 4:3 Opm 
.:;ff:.::•·.:::~:.•:•.:•·. 
Departme:;if~ollcctions, 102 Hcsburgh Library 
.... ·-:•:::;:::··.>.:·:·:<•>""•:•:•.·.. 
A receptlbii.::;~l;i!f,~0f ,•i,g.~---le5,fH{.~..;,....~l are welcome. 
'·~~~ 
For further information call (219) 631-5610 or visit the Devers Web site at http://www.n<l.edu/-<lcvers 

11r 
CIGNA 
A Bwint..SJ ,:l(Cal1ng. 
Your accomplishments in school have everything to do with talent and deter­mination. At CIGNA, we invite you to apply those same qualities at one of the top global employee benefi~s and financial services companies. 
We're looking for bright, career-minded undergrads and graduates from all major fields of concentration to enjoy ample challenges and rewards. We focus on developing our future leaders from the start with skills, support and challenging opportunities. So, you can explore various jobs, areas of interest, and make key contributions right away while charting your own career. 
Visit 11s 1111 th, W,b: www.clgna.com/warklng/(ollege 
There's more. We offer a variety of benefits and a strong work-life balance culture. That's µrobably why we con­tinue to earn high marks from some of America's "best places to work" surveys. 
Stop by our upcoming information session and learn more about CIGNA's "Business of Caring'' brand. 
Are You the One? 
Date:  October 13, 1999  
Time:  6:00 pm  -8:00 pm  
Place:.  Stadium Raom,  
University Club  

We're an equal opponunity employer, M/F, DN:~CIGNA" rnfN!'I to CIGNA Corporation and/or one or more of its subsiQia"ries Mos: employees are empll)yecJ l.Jy su~:i.:!::::ries o! C1G~~;. ,::;-.:,1p1>rat1on, which provide insurance and related products 

Wednesday, October 13, 1999 The Observer . TODAY page 27 
TOM KEELEY 
A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD JEFF BEAM
FOURTH AND INCHES 
":!: "1"RVI..'< l"\tN C,E "Tl-IE l.?>E.ST T\-IT:RE EVE1'. WA':. To f'l..1'.Y ii-II~ <,"'1-\E. 
l'M .Sc.RRY, ..;ol/NNY... /3l/T 
OV ~AVE WAl\fl,,;.."( "ro /-A.lie,\-\ IT WAS DALE. Ir WAS All-v'AYS fVN Wini -rl-l t.T ~ 1\\/\JDRY 
LJA LE...
\;il.';~t:T, JOl(.DJ\t,./ 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 12 Last word in a 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

Puzzle by Patrick Jordan 
30 Japanese noodle dish 32 lnsomniac's annoyance 33 Folk singer Mitchell 34 12-Down partner 35 Tops 37 Tear off with force 38 Talked, talked, talked 42 Collection plate amounts 43 Outward flow 44 Cheer with beer 
45 Bellybutton type 51 Al some prior 46 British bishop's 
point 
headdress 52 Filigree 47 Angry 53 Milan moola 49 Sixth-century 54-Manya 
date campaign tactic so Sound at Old 56 Hanes MacDonald's competitor 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 
1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50years: 1-888-7-ACAOSS. 
EUGENIA lAST
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sepl. 22): You DAY: Margaret Thatcher, Marie will be emotionally up and down. Try Osmond, Yves Montand, Kelly to do things that will enhance your Preston reputation. Offer, to help groups that 
Happy Birthday: Ready, set, go! deal with children. You can exhibit You'll be off to the races this year as your talent to those who have an long as you are crystal clear about interest. 00 your destination. The harder you LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): The work, the greater the gains. Emotion-changes that you're making to your al deception is likely to unfold. If you home will be better than you first don't let it interfere with your goals, thought possible. Entertaining in your you will prosper. You've got plenty to home will also prove to be successful. offer and lots to re,eive in return. Visit or talk to friends who have not Your numbers: 3, 11, 26, 33, been well. 0000 
40, 45 SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 211: Chil-
ARIES (March 21-April 19): dren may limit your freedom. Try to Socializing with colleagues will lead be sure you've got all the bases cov­to a better working environment. ered if you and your mate want to Someone you do business with will spend a night out on the town or go find his or her way into your heart. away for the weekend. 000 Rumors may be detrimental if you SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): aren't discreet. 00000 Get down to business. It's time to do 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): a little research. Look into all your Check out some unusual courses options. Communication is your best being offered. Don't let colleagues bet. Go to the source if you need to take credit for your work. Make · find something out. 000 arrangements to do something with CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): your lover. Unusual forms of enter· Travel and educational pursuits will tain.ment will be exciting. 000 ' be to your benefit. You can win 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Con-approval-of clientele through business centrate on your work. Problems at trips or long-distance conversations. home will leave you feeling empty. It's time to take action and move An older relative may be a burden. ahead. 000 Try to handle what you can, but if the AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): stress is too much, ask siblings for Investments will be better than you help. 000 first thought. You can clear up loose 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Visit ends concerning your personal life. friends or relatives if at all possible. Real estate moves will be in your best You can make special plans for a quiet interest. 0000 evening with the one you love. Pas-PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Love sion is strong, and you need the atten· is on your mind. Passionate inter­tion badly. 000 ludes will lead to a solid and commit-
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Sit down ted relationship. You may want to with a good friend and kick around talk about expanding your family. ideas you both have for taming extra Remember, actions speak louder than cash. You may start your own part-words. 00 time business. 00000 
Birthday Baby: You are a determined individual who will not take no for an answer. Your high aspirations will help you do great things for your fellow man. You are a helpful fnend and a loyal companion. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugemalast.com, astromate.com.) © 1999 l"ni,·ers.11 Press S)·11dict1t(' 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
0 Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name 
Address --------------------------­
City _______ State ____ Zip___-,.--__ 
Fox TROT 
iLE'T'S SEE ... I 
1 SW>ULD PRoV-8\.'l'I?uT l\-11S GL.Ac.;s Of WATE~ IN 1T\1E Souni·IEAST. 
i \ 
r 
€ 
FENC,·SHVIIN~ MY ROOM. IT'S °™E AN<.IENT Cli1NESE ART OF' AIZRANGIN6 ONE'S EN,MlON~ENT To M...)(IMIZE PoSIT•VE ENER6Y. I WANT To ur M'f OD()S oi: sv«EC.S 
WHEN I oPEN 1H1S IIIEW PAU:: o!= PoktMoN c.AIU>S.
,~ 
I'LL ADMIT CHANGING "TliE GRAIN oi:' M'Y C.Ali!PET 1'o 
FACE T\1E R1GHT WA'f WAS 
A PAIN, BuT 1F 1T'LL GET 
ME A Hol.o•Fo1L CHAR1ZARD 
CARI), 11-iE lliREE DAYS 1T 
Tooi.; W1LL BE Wo~Tl--1 IT. 
BILL AMEND  
SHouLD I Do Yo\i\JE GoT IT IN TI-IE 'l"ouR USUAL SouTHEAST "I 1',1NK I'M AS WELL? Go1NG To PulcE" F,._CE ON, I SEE. \  
"Serious" cartoons: Not very funny, but very, very difficult to draw. baam.1 @nd.edu  

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Unforeseen 
difficulty 5 Dwelling 10 Gauguin or 
Cezanne 14 Soybean dish 15 Like lymphatic 
tissue 16 "Giant" author 
Ferber 11Get 1aStart of a joke 20 Response to 
18-Across 22 Big name in 
computers 23 Bell and Barker 24 Less slovenly 2sSmoothm 
motion 28 Move down the computer screen 
WACS SM A AT O p A L T O R A H 
A D U E L P 
LIMA ARNIE 
STEM INTER 
31 Right on the 
map 32 Deli sausage 33 Short punch 36 With 49-and 
55-Across. response to 20-Across 
39 Miscalculate 40 Made invalid 41 Wife in 
"Finnegans 
Wake" 42 Serving dish 43 Gives off 44 Hot as a pistol, 
e.g. 47 "Big Blue" 48 Makes a 
cardigan, say 49 See 36-Across 55 See 36-Across 57 Seasick sailor's 
support 58 Yorkshire river 
ACTS p y R E 
...:..+:..:+=-#11111 28 Miss Hawkins of Dogpatch =1-c:-+=-1-:::-1 29 Half of a famous outlaw duo 
59 Gill of country 
music 60 Light brown 61 Sediment 
62 Protected by levees 63 Honeybunch 
DOWN 
1 Lose sleep over 
something 2 Ark architect 3 Retro hairdo 4 Barrel maker? 5 Egyptian 
crosses 6 Matter of 
contention 7 Unpleasant aura 8 Small freshwater 
fish 
9~-Grove Village,111. 1oLetter getter, 
maybe 11 Assume 
wrestling ma~h? 13Adbul-Jabbar, 1975-89 19 Kato of Simpson trial fame 21 Bit 24 One for whom all roads lead to roam 25 Honor with a party 
26 Actor Bert 
27 Conniver 

Legendary Center Dies 
Basketball hall ofJamer Wilt Chamberlain was found dead in his home Tuesday. The former Kansas Jayhawk
PORTS 
and NBA star was 63. 

page 28 
Irish backs lead offense 
There's an old saying out there that goes something like, "You never can get too much of a good thing." 
As far as the Notre Dame football team is 
Ted Fox 
con­cerned this year, Fox Sports ... that old Almo.~t saying would probably be modified to: "You can never get too many good tailbacks." 
At the beginning of any new foolball season, a coach will, of course, have hopes of a team that is solid in all facets of its game -whether he's looking at offense, defense or special teams. 
As long as I'm dropping old sayings, I'll add another one: "No man is an island," just as no part of team's game isiso­lated from another. On the offensive side of the ball, in order to have a good passing game, you usually need a solid running game to set up the pass. 
On the flip side of this coin, it usually takes a solid pass­ing game to open up the field for the run. These two ways of moving the ball flow together in some sort of cir­cular thingy that makes up the offense, and when one breaks down, the whole offensive arsenal tends to go with it. 
Anyway, the point (finally, you say) is that to establish this running game and there­fore a high-octane offense, any coach would be delighted to have one really solid back and a couple of capable guys he can drop back there with him. 
Well, it's Christmas morn­ing for Bob Davie and he must have done all the right things because Santa brought a lot more than the one solid tailback the coach wished for. 
Junior Tony Driver, sopho­mores Terrance Howard and Tony Fisher and freshman Julius Jones have all lined up as the featured back for the Irish this year. Other teams would be happy to have any of these backs as their only featured back. 
At his press conference Tuesday, Davie described each man in the following way, respectively: "He'll just flat run over you," "He's an explosive guy,'' "Tony Fisher's done some tremen­
see FOX/page 25 
page 23 

FOOTBALL 
Davie: Southern Cal rivalry is special 
By TIM CASEY Sporrs Writer 
Notre Dame fans can thank the game of golf for saving one of its most suc­cessful football r:oaches. 
After suffering a loss at USC in his coaching days, Ara Parseghian considered jumping out the window of his hotel in Los Angeles, according to Bob Davie. 
Parseghian reconsidered when he thought about the consequences. 
"When he [Parseghian] went back to the hotel after losing the USC game, he felt so bad that he contemplated jumping out the window on the 15th floor," Davie said at Tuesday's press conference, recalling a conversation he had with Parseghian, "He said he would have jumped but he didn't want to mess up his golf game." 
And you thought Notre Dame-USC was merely another football rivalry? 
"All of us have been involved in a lot big games," Davie said on Tuesday, "Certainlv everv week we play a big football game here. But l think this one is the biggest one I've been involved with in my coach­ing career." 
While coaching at Texas A&M, Pittsburgh, Tulane and Arizona prior to coming to Notre Dame, Davie was a part of sectional rivalries. Texas, Penn State, LSU and Arizona State, respectively, were all major games for Davie's previous teams. But because of its national scope, Davie believes that no rivalry compares to Notre Dame-USC. JOHN DAILY/The Observer 
Jay Johnson makes catches his first touchdown of the season against Arizona State. Johnson see FOOTBALL/page 18 and the rest of the seniors will look for their first win against Southern Cal on Saturday. 

MEN'S SOCCER 
Late Valpo goal breaks ND winning streak 
1997 season -to a close. 
By KERRY SMITH 
"We played well at times ­
Sports Writer 
there were some bright spots 
but also a lot of room for 
Freshmen Erich Braun and improvement," sophomore Paul Rodriguez combined for midfielder Matt Rosso said. two goals against Valparaiso "It's obviously a disappointingTuesday, but it was not tie, especially with four wins in enough for a win as the a row before this game." Crusaders battled the Irish to a The two squads played well 2-2 tic, bringing the team's into the second sudden death overall record to 7-4-2. overtime period before offi­
The tie brings a four-game cials halted the contest at the Irish winning streak -the 117 minute 31 second mark longest for the team since the because of darkness. 
the tie marks the first e·ver non-win for the Irish in the 27­game history of the series. 
Crusader forward Scott Daly came up big for Valparaiso, scoring both of his team's goals -the second coming with just 23 seconds left in regulation to tic the game. 
"Valpo played a good game," Rosso said. "We were expect­ing them to come at us hard and put some pressure on us and that's just what they did." 
Daly led the Crusader attack in the opening minutes of the first half, scoring less than six minutes into the game off a feed from J.J. Ruane. 
"We had a lot of opportuni­ties to score," Rosso said. "We dominated in the beginning but they took control on one transition and finished their play. That sort of deflated our game a bit." 
The Irish attack responded 10 minutes later, tallying two 
see SOCCER/page 18 
Golf vs. Villanova, Volleyball • Cross Country 
at Louisville Invitational, Sarurday, 7:30 p.m. vs. Albion College, at Central Collegiates, 
~ e 
Oct. 18-19, All Day Today, 7 p.m. Friday, 4 p.m. 
SPORTS •
ATA Golf vs. Calvin College, ar Providence, vs. USC,e at Defiance College, s~ Today, 4 p.m. .·~ Friday, 4:35 p.m. Saturday, I:30 p.m. Saturday, Noon
GLANCE • 


