
More criticism of Davie 
Movie reviews 
Sports columnist l:Jrian Chumey calls for the 
Scene's movie critics offer their views of 

Thursday
resignation qfhead football coach Bob Davie 
"Stigmate" and "Love Stinks." Jllso, check out 
in today's sports section. 
last week ·s box office figures. 
SEPTEMBER 16, 
page 26 
page 14-15 
1999 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXlll NO. 18 
FRESHMAN ELECTIONS 




Two tickets remain 
for Monday's run-off 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE Saint M;iry', F.di1or 
Tim 1il1·ctio11 isn'l over yet f'or frt>shman 1,andidatns vying for class ollkc>. 
Two tickPts will square off in a ru11-urr M o n d a y . SMC 
aftm· sPrt1r­ing the top freshmen JlPl'CP 11 tag1•s 
elections 
of VOtl'S Oll 
Wi•dnPsday . Run-off vote in mm of th11 between Pace­
most corn­
Jospeh,
p I' l i t i V I' frPshman Hackbush-Dixon 1d«>1·tio11s in 
. Monday, 7-9 
n•cpnt histo­
a.m., 11 a.m.­
ry. 
T h 1• 1 p.m., 5-7p.m. 
Slnphanil'
l'are-i\llison . Noble Family .JnsPpli tick-Dining Hall Pl will l'arn .I e 11 i Ilackbush and Carnli1w Dixon aflH tlw two tit:kets l'liminated 11i1w others. The Pacn-.los1)ph tickt)t St\CLIJ'l\d 23 perTm1t of' lhe vot11, leading the llackhush-Dixon lickPl who trailNl with 13 pPr­Cl'lll of th1• vol!'. Fifty-sev1111 pPrcent of tht\ 
Class of' 20(1:1 voted, which is ilTl unusually large turnout, according to elections r.ommis­simmr Chrissio Hnnner. 
"f:or a f'rnshrnau election, that's vt>ry impwssive," llimrmr said. . 
Part of tlrn large turnout may be due Lo innovativn campaign­ing tedrniquns such as cos­tunrns and t-shirts. 
"They did a ph1-momenal job or campaigning," Hemmr said. "It wasn't just my publicity. but their publicity as well. There were pnoplt1 actively cam­paigning by wearing t-shirts a11d passively campaigning through buttons as well." 
Tim voling percentag11 is expecl1HI to remain high on Monday as well. antl election o!Hcials are also Hxpncling an incnms(• in vot,irs. 
"Tlwrn's always a largnr per­ccintagri lill' a run-off," Hennor said. "Pnopln start getting seri­ous when it's down to two can­didalt•s. Also, voting on 11 tick­<1ts is ov11rwhelming. People are more intense and con­cnrned with who wins this 
nov.·." Freshman class board mem­bnrs wen• also (\lt\rfod Monday 
see RUN-OFF/page 4 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

MEETING TIME 





Grads create college Web page 
express tlwir opinions on erate revenue through advertis­

. Site features college campus issirns or college sports ing fees and commissions from 
sports news, student on tlrn nwssag1i board. textbook and ticket sales. "We don't ndit anything" The company shares owner­
message boards 
unless somHlmti's messagns got ship with Internet Services out of hand. said Ford. "We Management Group, which pro­want student input." vides accounting services for 

By ERIN LaRUFFA The site also offers important CampusMonster.com, and New, Writer 
news stories from campuses Jerome Bettis, a former Notre around thu country. A "Career Dame football player who now 

/\ ~roup of Nolw Dame grad­i\n,na" will soon provide infor­plays for Orn Pittsburgh uatt!S, joitwd by a Michigan mation about earner and Steelers. Stahi gracl1111t11, rncenlly crnat11d internship opportunities. Tht)re Notre Dumn alumni Tracy CampusMonsl11r.co111. a WPh is also a "Featured School oftlm Graham, Charles Stafford. silt: designed for college sports Month," which is currently lleggic Fleurima, Cliff Stroud, fans and stud,mts across tlrn Notrri Dame. Katya llernandez and Lee rnuntry. Opening soon, the "Textbook Walker also share part owner­
r\ privaw company locatnd i11 Swap" will allow students to ship in the company. Mishawaka, the site contains buy and sell used text books, The site plans to include a college sporls news. such as Ford said. The site will also add section dedicated to news for team sdrndules and rusters, the classifieds for students to soil women college students. Travel J\P/Top 25 poll, and articles dormitory necessities such as and entertainment am other about v,Lrious football pro­lofts. areas into which Ford says hrrams. CampusMonstcr.com has an C:ampusMonster.com will 
''!The idua fur Urn site! came arua for buying and selling expand. about about nine months ago," game tickets. Ford realizes the importance suid Hussiill ford. u vice presi­"We've had a terrific of student input in order to con­dnnt of CampusMonster.com response. People are really tinue providing the web site as and 1992 Michigan State interested in tickel.S," Ford said. a helpful resource. l!nivursity graduate. "No unii J\lthough its main focus is "We want student input," had a silt1 that focused on stu­sporting events, the company Ford said, "in order to make the dcnL,;." has had requests for concert site a more valuable resource to 
Stud1rnts aru also able to tickets. The company will gon-students." 

Koppel will speak in annual lecture series 
degrees. Koppel has anchored By BOB KERR "'Nightline" since its introduc­News Writer tion in 1980. 
According to American stud­
Tonight, the department of ies department chair Professor American studies and the pro­Hobert Schmuhl, tlrn "'lecture gram in Journalism, Ethics and series tries to bring people that Democracy uphold thn welcomes Ted standards that
"In Ted Koppel's case,
Koppel to the made Bed
he ·s known not only as an
Hesburgh Smith such a Library excellent journalist, but ter_rif!.c jour­Auditorium to nalist.
also as a great writer. " 
discuss con­"In Ted te mp or ar y Koppel's case, concerns in Robert Schmuhl he's known 
journalism. chair, American studies not only as an Koppel, the excellent jour­anchor and nalist, but managing editor of "Nightline," also as a great writer," said will deliver the Red Smith Schmuhl. Lecture in Journalism at 7:30 The lecture series was estab­
p.m. lished in 1983 to honor Walter 
Koppel joined ABC News in '"Red" Smith, a spurtswritor and 1963 at the age of 23, and is 1927 Notre Dame alumnus. now a member of the Smith won a Pulitzer Prize in Broadcasting Hall of Fame. 1976 for distinguished criti­During his 36 years with ABC, cism, and he was a columnist he has received 30 Emmy Awards and 17 honorary see KOPPEL/page 4 
" 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Walking in their footsteps 
Walking around the campus in the beauty of the early faU, I'm struck by how close l feel to my parents. · 
My dad was a Dorner and my mom was a Belle. And it seems to me that in the fall, I can almost 
see them on campus. l can see my dad playing pickup basketball on the Stepan Courts. I can see my mom in The Observer's office, argu­ing with other editors. I can see them hurrying to class across the quads in the Jato summer air. !fl could just turn quickly enough, I could catch a glimpse of my par­ents, 28 years younger. 
Maybe it's the nostalgia in the air. Notre Dame seethes nostalgia in the fall. with football and alumni and the smell of barbecue and burn­ing leaves. 
Maybe it's because I'm a 

Laura Petelle 
Assistant 
Managing 
Editor 
senior. and I'm full of nostalgia as well. Every time I do something, it's the last. It's my last tirs1 home football game. My last first Observer issue. My last move-in. 
And maybe it's because I'm finally starting to make life decisions like an adult. Until now, it's all been prescribed. I knew I was going to col­lege, I just didn't know where. I knew I was tak­ing classes, I just didn't know which ones. 
Now I'm making a completely free decision about what l'm going to be doing. My parents aren't paying, they aren't helping me decide, they aren't telling me what I need to do. As I fill out applications for grad and law school and I take the GREs and LSATs, I do so knowing that it's totally up to me what I do next. Maybe this is what makes me feel so close to my parents. 
Once upon a time, my parents were 21-year­old college students. Once upon a time, they were facing the same decisions I am. They were deciding where to go after graduation and what to do next. 
This makes me feel a little better about the fact that I don't have a clue where I'll be next year. If my parents survived the transition from college to adulthood, maybe I inherited that gene. Maybe I will eventually figure out what I want to do next. Maybe it'll even be before the deadline for making that decision. 
I'm relieved to know that my parents faced the same decision. That as they hurried to class in O'Shaughnessy, they were thinking the same thoughts I'm thinking now. That their heads were full of the same decisions. That my dad would be attempting to do homework and stop midsentence to stare off into space and contem­plate the future. That my mom would lie awake at night and try to plan it all out. 
A lot of things have changed since 1972, the year my parents graduated. Notre Dame went co-ed the next semester. Buildings have been built, endowments have ballooned, administra­tions have changed. 
But walking along the sun-lit quads, following my parents' footsteps, I know that the feeling of absolute freedom and utter terror I have when thinking about the future is not new. Walking down these same paths, my parents felt the same way. 
And that is profoundly comforting. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Obseruer. 


TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Joshua Bourgeois Mike Vanegas Maureen Smithe 
Graphics 
Tim Logan Mandi Powell 
Sports 
Production 
Brian Kessler Rachael Prod:z.man 


Viewpoint 
Lab Tech AJ Boyd Jeff Hsu 
The Observer (Usrs 599 2-4000) is published Monday ,hrough Friday txcept during exam and vacation period.. The Observer i• a member of rhc .-...o<:ia1cd Prc,s,. All rrproduccion rights arc reserved. 

The Observer . INSIDE Thursday, September 16, 1999 


THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Thursday  Friday  
. Open House for  . Pep Rally: Joyce Center  
Students of Color: Carer  Arena, 6:30 p.m.  
Center, 4:30-6:30 p.m.  . Entrapment: Cushing  
. Presentation for the  Auditorium, 8 p.m. &  
People of East Timor:  10:30 p.m.  
Center for Social  . Strange Days:  
Concerns. 7:30 p.m.  Annenberg Auditorium,  
7 p.m. & 9:45 p.rn.  


Saturday 
. Football: vs. Michigan State. WNDU-Ch. 16, 
1:30 p.m. 

. 
Mass: Stepan Center, 45 minutes after football game. 

. 
Entrapment: Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 10:30 p.m. 


Sunday 
. Spanish Mass: Keenan­Stanford Chapel. 
1:30 p.m. 
. Mass: Basilica, 8 a.m., 10 a.m. & 11 :45 a.m .. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports


OUTSIDE THE DOME 

Jewish students at Brown U. unsatisfied 
BROWN UNIVERSITY 
Some Jewish students at Brown find services for the High Holy Days, which include Rosh IIashanah, the Jewish new year, and. Yorn Kippur, the Jewish day of atonement, inade­quate for their religious needs. 
As a result, these students seek olher avenues for worship. either off campus at more traditional services. or at home where they can celebrate in more familiar surroundings. 
"There is a big difference between a student congregation and a syna­gogue," said Rabbi Alan Flam, exec­utive director of the Brown/RISO Hillel. 
The High Holy days are currently in midstream -Rosh Hashanah took place last weekend, and Yorn Kippur will begin at sundown on Sunday. 
Brown offers two sets of Jewish services to the approximately 700 to 

"There is a big difference between a student congregation and a synagogue. " 
Rabbi Alan Flam director of the Brown/RISO Hillel 
800 students who attend lligh Holy Dav services, Flam said. These Jews are part of the 20 percent of Brown's campus who affiliate themselves with Judaism, Flam said. 
Brown offers two sets of services, one for the Reform population, and another geared for Conservative Jews, Flam said. The Reform and Conservative movements comprise two main branches of the Jewish population, with Orthodoxy as the lhird. 
Although Brown does have weekly Orthodox services, Flam said, there are no Orthodox High Holy Day ser­vices due to the small number of Orthodox students. 
"I attend the Conservative services, but I have friends who are unsatis­fied with the Reform services," said sophomore Jennifer Mitnick. "They find that the services are not reli­gious enough and too Reform." 
"There are tunes that are different, but the basic service is adequate for my needs," she said. 
Some students said they simply feel more comfortable in familiar sur­roundings. 
"Judaism is very family-centered for me," said junior Elaine Farber. "If I have the opportunity to go home, I will -I am very close with my family." 
Princeton student may donate egg 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 
Approximately 40 Princeton students responded to a March advertisement by a family offering $50,000 to egg donors, and at least one is a finalist for the donation, according to the family's lawyer. The ad asked for donors matching the qualifications of an SAT score above 1400 and a height of at least 5­foot-10. In addition to The Daily Princetonian, cam­pus newspapers from Harvard, Yale and Stanford ran the ad. However, the number of applicants from Princeton exceeded the number of initial responses from all other schools. Of 10 finalists, "one woman from Princeton was on the final list, possibly two," said Darlene Pinkerton, the attorney for the family that placed the ad. University women responded at a higher rate than th_eir peers at other schools because they were "not as inundated with ads from other agencies," she said. Because egg donation had not been as heavilv advertised at Princeton, there was more initial interest, she speculated. "The response we got was incredible, far more than we ever hoped for." Pinkerton said. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather'"forecasl for daytime conditions and high temperatures 


Thursday ~ Friday r -i) 
~ .'
Saturday -~ 
,,.r-0).

Sunday 
~~r:,/ 


Mon(,tay /\~, / 
~ ;:-,. JV· _,.,.\":. 

~-~-~~~~ (f ~ ~ 
Snowors T-slOrms Rain Flurries Snow lea SIJflny Pt Cloudy Cloudy Ym .4ssx"1lled Prflff Gr1pl'JCS,vet 

Alfred U. study finds NCAA hazing 
ALFRED UNIVERSITY 

Alfred University made history on Monday, August 30, when the results of the National Initiation Rites and Athletics Survey were released. According to Alfred University President Edward Coll, the study is the first of its kind in the United States. With the full support of the NCAA, the survey was distributed to 10,000 student ath­letes and more than 4,000 coaches and administrators at NCAA schools throughout the United States. Approximately 23 percent of the students responded, said Norm Pollard, director of the counseling center. The results of the survey demonstrated that the problem of hazing in athletic teams is much larger than originally thought. The survey revealed that 80 percent of all col­lege athletes have been engaged in some form of hazing, while only 12 percent actually reported feeling hazed. Pollard said that the results of the survey were "quite remarkable," and that many at the university didn't know the severity and scope of the problem. The results indicate that one in five university athletes has performed some type of illegal activity, including harassment of others and vandalism. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 

The AccuWeather<' forecast for noon, Thursday, Sept. 16. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
C 1999 AtcUWHther, ~nc. COLO WARM STATIONARY 

Vfa Assttialed Prtl$!l  
Atlanta  74  62  Las Vagas  97  73  Phoenix  97  75  
Baltimore  74  S4  Memphis  80  62  Sacramento  61  48  
Boston  74  63  Milwaukee  65  51  St. Louis  71  58  
Chicago  68  48  New Yori<  70  49  Tampa  89  68  
Houston  88  67  Philadelphia  74  59  Wash DC  75  54  

Thursday, Septcm ber I6, 1999 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Lab hours change, BOG adds board 
Tim lab dons not dose for cleaning 'Tm really exdted," she said. "It

. Members also discuss 
at night and will remain op<rn 24 is really something I think thisfinancial aid, Walk for hours. campus needs." 
Life and Twilight Tailgate HepresentaLives from the Kathleen Zimmer, a llospicc Financial Aitl Oflicc were also pre­!louse rnpresentative discussed sent al Lhc meeting tu discuss the the Hospice Walk for Life. draf'ting of a nnw funding bill in "It's really rnwarding to work at 
Hy COURTNEY BOYLE Congress. the Hospice News Writer They encour­House because ag11d students to "I'm really exci-ted about we take care of Saint Mary's Board of contact tlwir the families after
/the new board.] It is 

(,ovornancn focusm.l on :rnvural hometown the patients die,
really something I think

topics and proj1•cts at Wedrwsday Congrcssmr.n too." Zimmer nighl's nwctin).!, including comput­and stat11 repre­this campus needs." said. tir lub hours. financial aid and son ta ti vos lo Final plans for adding a f'if'lh hoard lo BOG to nxprnss that cut­tonight's
Akmaral Omarova

promote awarn111•ss and student ting the !'P.dcral Twilight Tailgate
Saint Mary's student

diversity. lirrnnciul aid hud­were also dis-
BOC discussed computer lab gnt will affect. cussed. The hours at last wnf'k's 11wc!ing. not­Saini Mary's slu-event will be ing that tlw 24-lwur loung11 in the tlents. from 3 p.m. to 7 p.m. on the library is ch1s11d from 11:45 p.m. Akmaral Omarovu discussed the Cushwa Leighton Library green, until l a.111. f'or cluani11g. (istablishnrnnt of a lifth board for with fostivities including a picnic, According to T11ch11ology BOC lo promote awareness and music, an obstacle course and Co1111nissiu11nr Knlly Dugan, the student divorsity on Saint Mary's jousting. cmnpuWr lab hours havn chang,id. campus. 
WE'RE AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER WITH UNEQUALED OPPORTUNITIES FOR EMPLOYMENT. 
~ 
-·""" 
:.., ..
-
1·.. • 
-~•~,_.:'. ,. t. 
rj~~!~ ·\ 

If you're maJoring in rnmputer science, <lata processing, accounting. auditing, math or law, contact your Placement Director for more 111fon11ation, or write Lo: Assistalll Director, Corporate Human Resources, Three State Fann Plaza-Kl, Bloomington, Illinois 61791-0001. 
State Farm Insurance Companies , Home Offices: Rlmmington, Illinois• An Equal Opportunity Employer www.statefarm.com 
Haywood naD1ed Getty Fellow, receives grant 
By JESSICA DAUES 
News Writer 

Hobert Haywood, an assistant professor of art, art history and design at Notre Dame was named a 
J. Paul Getty Postdoctoral Fellow in the Iiistory of Art and the llumanties for the 1999-2000 academic year. 
The Getty Fellowship, which is one of the highest and most competetivc awards given to junior facul­ty, is an international competition whi.ch supports postdoctoral research. 
"Each fellow is awarded $35,000 to pursue his or her research project which, acording to the grant program, the Gctly believes will make a 'significant contribution to art history and the humanities,'" Haywood said. 
The Getty Fellowship will support the completion of llaywood's hook, "lntfirventions: /\rt. Happenings and Cultural Politics (l 958-1970)." The book focuses on newly discovnred writings by two artists. Allan Kaprow and Claes Oldenburg. 
"Both are among the most significant artists of the 1960s," said Haywood, "because tlrny rodefined the terms of art. Through my research and extcm­sive interviews with both artists. I have been al.ilc to aquire total access to their papers." 
"It was a slow and deliborate process of winning their confidence," he added. 
Haywood's research draws on· ovor 30 private and public archives from all over the world. In his book. he will analyze how avant-garde artists in the 1960s, specifically KaP.row and Oldnnburg, increasingly began to use non-conventional "can­vases," such as courtyards or swimming pools, lo create a form of abstract arl by incorporating pnr­f'ormers and other'structures inlo tho scene. 
Under lhe Fellowship, llaywood will also con­tribute lo the coming exhibition al Columbia University's Wallach Art Gallery. an exhibition said to dramatically change how avant-garde arl has been understood since World War II. 
Haywood is bnlievetl to be tlrn sole junior arl his­torian to receive all of the three major art history awards available to young scholars in the U.S. In addition to the Getty Fellowship, Haywood rnceivntl a fellowship at tho Centnr for Advanced Study in the Visual Arts at the National Gall(iry of' Art and a Smithsonian Fellowship at tho llirshhorn Museum and Scupture Garden. 
Haywood is organizing a symposium "Crtique of the Museum in Contemporary Art," which will focus on contmnporary artists who havn challnnged traditions and conventional artistic production and exhitbiton display. The symposium will takn placn Sept. 24, from 2 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. in Hoom IO I, OnBartolo Ilall. 
"Need insurance for your wheels?" 

Being in good hands is 
the only place to be:· 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 16, 1999 

Wallis: Peacemaking is about taking action 
By KRJSTEN ALLEN NewsWrirer 
Peacemaking. having more to do with action than just theory, means stepping into situations of conllict and trying to resolve the situation, said Jim Wallis, founding edi­tor of 
and answer­
"Peace requires the pur­
Sojourners ing then in a 
magazine. in suit oftruth, and that 
different wayhis Wechrnsday truth is not always easy instead of 
lecture cnti• acting like
toflnd."
tied "Can a the questions Chrisitan do 
do not exist." Enough to Jim Wallis " P e a c e Oppose Sojourners magazine editor requires the 
Genocide W h i I e Remaining Nonviolent?" 
Wallis discussed situations like Kosovo and tlrn NATO airstrikes. 
"It used to be that civilians were protected and soldiers died," he said. "Now it is com­pletely reversed." 
Wallis said that aerial troops are flying higher to avoid being shot down, but this means they are not as accurate when they drop bombs, occasionally hit­ting uninvolved areas. 
The need for some sort of "global policeman" is obvious but who and how is still unknown, he added. 
"It is my conviction that paci­fists fall into the temptation or not taking seriliusly the ques­tions that violnnce purports to 
Special to The Observer 
A 1957 Notrn Dame alumnus, Daniel Kelly, and his wife, Rosemary, wiil be the first recip­ients of the Notre Dame Alumni Association's Family Exemplar Award. The Kellys will be hon­ored at a dinner at the Morris Inn Friday and during half-time of the Notre Dame-Michigan State football game Saturday. 
The Family Exemplar Award is intended for individuals, cou­ples or families, at least one of whose members is a Notre Dame graduate, who have had an impact on society, the Church or the culture in the area of family values. 
The Kellys were selected as the inaugural recipients of the new award for founding Rose Hill Center, a long-term care facility in suburban Detroit for people with mental illnesses. They were motivated to start the center in 1992 after being unable to !ind care for their son, John, who was diagnosed in 1986 with paranoid schizophre­nia. 
Rose Hill emphasizes active troatmont and rehabilitation, rather than just maintenance'. for patients. Dun and Rosemary serve as chair and vice chair, respectively, of the c.;euter, which is stipported through donations from individuals, corporations and foundations. Rose Hill has helped morn than 260 people with serious mental illnesses achieve and maintain psychiatric stability, meaningful activity and a certain level of independ1rnt living through an aggressive pro­
gram of work and social interac­tion, behavioral therapy and answer," he said. 
"If nonviolence is going to have a persuasive power in the future of this nation's foreign policy or, morn importantly, the international community, it will come from taking the questions that violence answers in its way as seriously as those who chose 
that option 
pursuit of 
truth. and that truth is not always easy to llnd," he said. 
Wallis is currently involved in the Call to Renewal movement, a national federation of church­es and faith-based organiza­tions working to overcome poverty and revitalize American politics. 
His lecture was the first of the John Howard Yoder Dialogues on Nonviolence, Religion and Peace. The series will look at the strengths as well as the difficulties and weaknesses of nonviolence. 
It is sponsored by the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies to commemorate John Yoder, who founded the Kroc Institute and was a professor of theology at l\'otre Dame. 
Alumnus, wife receive Exemplar award 
proper medication. 
Monthly family support meet­ings help to educate family members about mental illness and its effect on family relation­ships. Fifty one patients receive ongoing residential treatment, and transitional living in on­campus townhouse apartments is available for 24 others. 
Koppel 
continued from page l 
for the Nf:lw York Times at tho time of his death in 1982. 
Schmuhl expects Koppel to address the recent developments in electronic journalism. 
"New information tech· nology raises questions that all of us need to con­l'ront," Schmuh! said. · 
The lecture is free and open to the public. 

Run-off 
continued from page 1 
night, electing I:~ positions from a field of 15 candidates. Megan Cavanaugh, Maria Conticelli, Torie Cox, Sarah DeRaedt, Andrea Fox, Karen Higley, Lauren Hofer, Becky Undenrnnn, Candi McEligott, Nicole Prezioso, Jenna Sousley, Emily Wick, and Brooke Wilkins were elected to positions on the board. 
Voting hours Monday will be from 7 a.m. -9 a.m, 11 a.m. · 1 p.m., and 5 p.m. • 7 p.m. outside the Nobl!l Family Dining I !all. 
Got news? Call 
631­5323. 


CJnd Product DfZVelopntent

=.:=.::::.:i:;~::::;.0!;:~112 PANTENE 
:.. '.Q~h"'e"IA ProvidE:d/C'"11ol ~)ts>.
:ft:':\

'' All CHEG, ME, CPEG o"d CS Major.-. e"co11ro9E:d to attend. 
It's Finally Here!!! 
Monday, Have fun while Sept. 20 you share 6-7pm your faith & 
Lafortune 

make new 
Ballroom 
friends. 
...and you' re 1nv1• ·1ed•. 
Iii/

Come learn all about Emmaus. 
(tMPUS

Enjoy an evening of FAITH, FRIENDSHIP & FUN. MINISTRY 




WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Fugitive drug prosecutor 
kills himself 
MEXICO CITY 

!lays lwf'orn lw was to be arraigned on U.S. rh1u·g1•s of laundPring $9.9 million i11 suspnct­nd drug payoffs. M1•xico's l'ormnr top drug prosecutor wa:,; found dead i11 his New Jersey apartment Wndrwsday of an apparent drug <1vnrdosc. llis lawynr said it was suicide. Mario Huiz Massicu, 48. had boon uudcr hous1• 1u-r1•st in N,iw ,forsey sincn I9CJ(i whi!ii battling 1\xtradition to Mnxico, whnrn hn was a1Tus11d or covt)ring up Lim I1JlJ4 murd1,r ol' his hrotlwr, ruling party leadPr .losu Francisco. lluiz M11ssi1:u also w·,ls charged in II011sto11 last month with laundPring millions while lw was assistant allornPy gcnl'ral. lit> was ln llavP IH•cn arraigrwd in llot1sto11 011 Friday. 
lusticl' Pcpart11w11t sp11k!'s1111m John llusscll said in W,lshin~ton that Hui,.. Massimt wits found by l'alisadl's Park, N..J., polict! in his apart11rn11t, with dcatli dui, to an app,,lrent ovnclos1• of' anlid1·11rcss1u1Ls. 
UNICEF: AIDS will create 13 million African orphans 
1.USAKA. Zambia 

AIils. nol war, has turned Africa in Lo tl "killing field" and will wipe out m10ugh adults to crPal1! I:~ million orphans in tlw next 18 111011lhs, tlw Unilml Nati()llS children's agoncy said Wndtwsday. Such cataclysmic statPments at tlrn 11th int,irnational AIDS in Africa con­forPricP wnn• aimml al prodding African gov­f\rrl llll'nls -which s1wnd more on ddnnsn tha11 011 lwalth -lo act agai11sl. tlw scourge of tlw continent. Afrit:a is home to two-thirds of tlm world's :H million IIIV-infPctml pnop!1'.. Last y,iar. AIDS killml 2 million Africans. out­stripping deaths from armnd conflicts on the c1mti11e11t I 0-1. said tlrn childrnn 's l"und, called UNICl•:i:. 111 15 years. AIDS has killnd 11 mil­lion Africans, ;norn than 80 percent of ltrn world's AIDS d11alhs. 
Russia will abandon Mir 
MOSCOW 

Thn Mir spacn stalion will be discarded next yPar as planrwd and Hussia will switch lo con­trilrntinv; to intnrnational projncts in space exploralion, a top spacn official said W1id1wsday. Bussia can no longer afford maintaining Mir. The space station's last f'ull­linw rrnw ld't in August. and the station will lw visiti•d only briclly hy another tnam next yPar in orc!Pr to prnpan• Urn 140-ton Mir for its li11al descm1t to Earth. Most or llrn station will burn up as it rPentPrs tlw atmosplrnrn, and som1• rPm1H111Ls will fall into thn l'acilic (klHlll. 
litiiidlilli@NQitll

Dow AMEx: 
797.-IN ./ONES -.J.oo 
Nasd:111:

-108.9 I 
60IU7 

u 
-6.6-1 NYSE 
615.IJ -l0.58 
s&r soo: Composite 
Volume:
1.317.97

10801.42 789,738,000
-18.32 
VOLUME LEADERS 

,"llt•u :i:1,111 ~ S::IIMl!ll I CU,11.QI UICI 
oucr.• co11• MlClOIOl'T fJffrt. cou  OftC'L Mtir1' Ul'l'C  -1, 05 p::i.. 'S1 -3 _ 2 8  ~a .1ns -2. ,,:i.s -:2.B1~~  ,:z.e:11 i2.61: !Jl,00  
PSt.L COHU'tllll  """"  -.1'  •• J7a5  4.6-69  
&-M&T Uk:  nn  •116.6-7  •J. scoo  f.!J.O  
c1•co •Y•"l'CM• BOHON ICl ¦wrrrn; QU lNHAIJIUN'i A1'•'T COlliP #OTOaOLA ,...  c,co... OIC T NO'r  -::1, 00 -:u. 54 ..-fj,4,Q -1.0'5  -1. 075 -1.n.as •J: .•Joa lJNCtl -fL!Jli1S  '70,SO 2"1,00 '-1~4-7 ,,.so ,H.,:il  

orld 
n 
Associated Pcess 
MYHTLE BEACII. S.C. 
The leading edge of 
Hurricane Floyd knocked 
oul power, f1ooded streets 
with drenching rain and 
spun off tornadoes 
Wednesday night as the 
Carolinas braced l'or a 
direct hit l'rom the storm. 
Its howling winds reduced 
to a still-dangerous 11.5 
mph, Floyd mo\(ed north 
toward the mostly evacuat­
ecl area between Myrtle 
Beach and Wilmington, 
N.C., after delivering only a 
glancing blow to Florida 
and Georgia earlier in the 
day. 
Altogether. authorities 
have urged morn than 2.6 
million people along the 
southern Atlantic coast to 
RUSSIA 

Defense chief warns of m·ore fighting 
clear out of Floyd's path, the biggest peacetime evac­uation in U.S. history. 
At 8 p.m. EDT, Floyd was 150 miles south-southwest of Wilmington. The storm's center was moving north at 17 mph and was expected to roll ashore before day­break Thursday. 
By nightfall Wednesday, hurricane-stnmgth gusts of 79 mph were buffeting Charleston, S.C., and more than 100,000 people in the area lost power. Several tornadoes struck near Wilmington, destroying one home and damaging seven. 
Earlier, in northern and central Florida, Floyd snapped power lines, smashed piers into drift­wood and knocked out elec­tricity to 300,000 people. About 350 miles off the coast, the Coast Guard rcs­cued eight people whose tugboat sank in 30-foot seas churned up by the hurri­cane. 

But Floyd made a north­ward turn that spared Florida and Georgia the cat­astrophic damage many had !'eared. NASA's Kennedy Space Center and its four shuttles were large­ly unscathed. 
The Carolinas, however, lay directly in the storm's path. 
"I know that Florida and Georgia at this point feel like they've dodged a real bullet." said North Carolina's public safety sec­retary, Richard Moore. "This thing is not going to miss us." 
Myrtle Beach, a usually bustling resort, was a virtu­
news agency reportnd. 

Adilgirey Magomcdtagirov, the Dagestani inWrior minis­ter, said Hussian security forces were "cleaning up" the last five villages in western Dagestan that they had reclaimed from rebels and had the few militants remaining in Uagestan surrounded. 
The militants are lighting for an indepnndeut Islamic state in southern Hussia. 
They had· been dug into the western villages since invading from neighboring Chechnya on Sept. 5. 
al ghost town as peopl,~ fled or stayed indoors, and high­ways wern jammed around Wilmington. In both Carolinas, many hurricane­hardened people who rode out earlier storms left this time. 
Terry II urley, checking into a Wilmington shelter with his wife and two chil­dren, said his family stayed home for Hurricanes Fran and Bertha in 1 <J96, but not for Floyd. 
"They talk likn this one is going to be pretty mean," he said. "It's got everybody shook up." 
Myrtle Beach authorities imposed a 3 p.111. curfew and turned off the water supply. The hospital sent iL,; patients inland but kept a doctor and thrne nurses on emergency duty. 
Hussian tfllflvision broad­casts from the villages shownd shatlered homes, shops and public buildings. some or thmn litternd with the dead from both siclr.s. 
In Moscow, meanwhile, nussian lawmakers urged President Boris Yeltsin to tighten border security. 
Some Hussian officials said the rebels in Dagnstan have been receiving help from fundamentalist groups abroad. A draft resolution adopted by the lower house of 11arliament called for sealing off for­eign supply routes. 
A,socia1cd Press 
1\1/\KIIACIIKALA 
Governnwnt forces elaimnd succnss against Islamic rebels in southern Bussia on Wednesday, but the defense minister warned that Hussia could soon face a new offensive from the breakaway region or Chechnya. 
Defense Minister Igor Sergeyev said that "several thou sand" Islamic mili­tants were grouped on Chechnya's border with Dagestan. where Russian 
troops have been battling rebels since early August. the lntcrfax news agency rcpnrtcd. 
The Russian military is "completely ready" for such an offensive, Sergeycv was quoted as saying. 
For now, Hussian forces have freed Dagestan of the mi Iitants, Scrgeyev told Prime Minister Vladimir Putin on Wednesday night. However, he said that Russian forces were con­tinuing to pursue the Islamic militants and destroy them. the lnterfax 


page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 16, 1999 
Program allows web-based classes 

Interested in writing 


Mix it up with 1200 others from the Class of2000 
TONIGHTand EVERY THURSDAYtor 



. Course Info provides access to classnotes, assignment boards 
By KAREN FINK 
News Wrirer 
Course Info 2.0, a program that allows Saint Mary's College to have web-based classes, uti­lizes technology to permit enrolled students and faculty to access classnotes and other course information from around the world. 
"Course Info makes it possi­ble to remove 
busy time from 
"The promise ofweb­esting and
class and allow 
based classes is excel­pertinent.
sacred time for 
The pro­
instruction," lent. It makes lea,rning 
gram offers
said Dan 
more interesting students the
Mandell, 
Information and pertinent." potential to 
make class
Technology fac­
more effec­
ulty support 
Bill Shannon 
tive and to
specialist. "The 
associate business professor make essen­
dis­
program tributes infor­mation and assignments quick­ly for students." 
Course Info contains a variety of helpful features, including assignment boards, group pro­jects, a discussion board for the continuation of class discus­sions and a virtual chat room for students to help one anoth­er. 
According to Mandell, the Course Info gateway page has received over 35,000 hits since the beginning of the school year. 
Associate professor of busi­ness administration and eco­
nomics Bill Shannon supports the use of web-based classes. 
"'They benefit the students as thev move on to the business wo;ld," said Shannon. 
In his principles of marketing class, Shannon's students work with Course Info frequently. During each class, two students will take notes and then post them on the web-site for other students to review. In addition, each student will interview a person in the professional world and write a memo to post on the web. 
"The promise of web-based classes is excellent. It makes 
learning 
more inter­
tial use of 
cla~s time," said Shannon. 
Julie Storme, associate pro­fessor of modern languages, also uses Course Info for her classes. The program provides more time for her students to write in class rather than go over work. 
"Course Info makes the work more integrated and shifts from teachers always providing information to students search­ing for the information. Plus, it makes students who are com­puter-reluctant use comput­ers," said Storme. 
One of Storme's l<rcnch Composition students, Carrie Ottsen. said Course Info is use­t'u I in deciding on a dass because it allows students to louk into lhe course and see if thev want to enroll i.n the course or drop it. 
Ottsen points out one disad­vantage with Course Info 2.0. 
"The program can be annoy­ing if the professor uses a dif­ferent system," said Ottsen .. She suggests that freshmen should take an orientation course on how to use both PCs and Macintosh computers with the system. 

Millennial/Fin de siecle series 
1. Opening Event Thursday, September 16, 1999, 7:00-11 :00 pm Annenberg Auditorium 
Snite Museum of Art Film Screening of Kathryn Bigelow's Strange Days 
7:00 snacks and beverages in Snite atrium 
7:30 Intro to film by Don Crafton (Chair, FTT) 7:40-1 OFilm: Strange Days 
10-11: Roundtable discussion and drinks in LOFT (3L4 O'Shaughnessy) Jessica Chalmers (FTT), Richard Pierce (HIS) and Matthias Scheutz (CSE) 
7HE Ei.'fr1 
-~... NIGH!! 


for Observer news? Come to our weekly meetings on Sundays at 5 p.m. in the basement of South Dining Hall. 
$1COVER 
(with college I.D., must be 21) 
SOUTH BEND'S BIGGEST PARTY 
ID] 

222 S. Michigan• South Bend• (219) 234-5200 www.ACEplaces.com/heartland Call the Heartland Concert & Event Line (219) 251-2568 · 

-------------------------, 
Thursday, September 16, 1999 --=============:::::T,:::::'he=O=b=s=er=ve=r=.=N==A=T==IO==N=A==L=N==E=W==S========================================p=ag=e=7
----_-_-_-_-_::-_:_-_-~-­


COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY'S
Study 

e:::: 

L+J 
......... 
~ 
Lµ 
c._, 

Explore our Columbia University offers environmental immersion programs at its beautiful Biosphere 2 Center campus in
Earth and its 

the Sonoran desert of Arizona. High school seniors and dynamic undergraduate students can enroll in the challenging Biosphere 2 curriculum to earn college course credits.
ecosystems! 
Columbia University UNDERGRADUATE 'PROGRAM Offerings: 

¦ 
EARTH SYSTEMS ¦ EARTH SEMESTER FIELD SCHOOL I & II 16 weeks: January-May 2000 Session I -· 6 weeks: June-July 2000 September-December 2000 Session II-4 weeks: July-August 2000 

¦ UNIVERSE SEMESTER 

¦ 
BIODIVERSITY INSTITUTE 16 weeks: September-December 2000 5 weeks: June-July 2000 .Summer 2000 program also being planned 


Internet commerce may be taxed 
AJSocia1~d l'rcss 
NEW YOHK 

Before a federal panel can dccidH whether Congrnss should permit statn sales taxes on Internet commorcc, it must dntcrminn whether there's any practical way lo do that. 
"We've got to figure out if theni is a workable solution." said Gov. Mikn Lnavilt. It-Utah. "We'rn not prnsupposing what should lw done." 
The Advisory Commission on EIHctronic Commerce, while sharply divided un the cyber­space tax qucslion. voted unanimously Wednesday to inviln submission or detailer! proposals on whether tho mul­tiph1 state systnrns can bn mod­ified to collect sales taxos from out-of-sLatll Internet, catalog or tl'lnphone saliis. 
The 19-momber IH.1.nnl ol' congressionally appointed business and government rnp­rose nlalives is to consider thc>s11 plans at its December meeting in San Francisco. Its l'inal rm:ommnndation on tax policy for the lntnnrnt is due to Congrr,ss by April. 
l.eavitt's proposal requirns that the tax plans focus on sim­p I ifyi ng Lim current system, imposing no new laxes, pro­lncling taxpayer privacy and acknowledging stales' rights, among othur concerns. 
"We have lo figure out if we can make sales taxes work for the 21st cenlury," LeaviLL said. 
State and local officials told the commission Wednesday that without sales tax collec­tions on Internet transactions. operating outside its bound­services ranging from schools aries unless the company has to tire prohiction wlll eventual­some physical presence in that ly suffer. state, such as a store or ware­
"Local government and state house. government cannot operate on Although that case involved an r,mpty lank," said Randy mail-order sales, it has been 
Johnson,  interpreted to  
Hcpublican chairman of'  "We ·ve got to figure out if  apply also to Internet  
the llnnnepin  there is a workable  transactions.  
County, Minn., Board. If Internet  solution. We're not presupposing what  Whether that decision should stand  
salns  reach  should be done."  is pcrhap5 the  
$100  billion  question fac­ 
by 2003, an estimated $4  Gov. Mike Leavitt, R-Utah  ing the com­mission and  

billion in sales tax would go uncoller.tecl because no system exists to do so. said Harley 
Duncan,  director  of  the  
Federation  of  Tax  
Administrators.  

Opponents, however, say a new tax would slow Internet comrncrcn. They say the eco­nomic boom has left the 50 states with a combined $36 bil­lion surplus in 1998. 
"It's nut a problem now and I don'! believe it's going to be a problem in the future," said Dean Andal. a commission member and Republican chair­man of.the Calil'ornia Board of Equalization. "lf you look at statn tax revenues now, it's boom time." 
Sales taxes are the single largest source of revenue for most states and local govern­ments, amounting to $147 bil­lion in 1997. But under a 1992 
U.S. Supreme Court decision known as Quill, a state cannot collect taxes from companies 
ultimately 
Congress. 
Abolishing the Quill stan­dards. say supporters. would protect state revenues and ensure that traditional "brick and mortar" merchants and Internet companies face the sam(i tax-compliance costs. It also would force creation of a simpler collection system ­perhaps even a single national tax rate, or at least one per state. 
Congress, however. has defeated multiple attempts to override the Quill ruling. Apart frum worries about the cost of taxing Internet sales, some say it would invade privacy as well. 
"It is simply too complex," said Jim Eads, a partner at the Ernst & Young accounting firm. 
The panel also voted Wednesday to support the Clinton administration's posi­tion that international trade tariffs should not be permitted on electronic transactions. 

Report exam.ines online stalking laws 
Associated Press 

SACRAMENTO, Calif. 
Federal and state laws should be strengthened to help curb the growing problem of online stalking, a U.S. Justice Department report recom­mends. 
Two-thirds of st~tes have no laws on the books that explicit­ly cover stalking on the Internet or through other elec­tronic communications means. the report found. And federal law ought to be amended to make it easier to track down "cyberstalkers," it said. 
"As more and more Americans are going online ­particularly our childrnn -it is critical that they are protAct­ed from online stalking," said Vice President Al Gore, who requested the report in February and was to release it iu California on Thursday. 
"Cyberspace should be a place for learning and explo­ration, not a place for fear," he said in remarks prepared for a meeting in San Diego with vic­tims of online stalking and their family members. 
The report surveyed steps that law enforcement, online industries, victims groups and others are taking to crack down on cyberstalking, and explored whether existing laws are adequate to combat a problem it contends is on the rise. 
Internet service providers, which link users to e-mail and the World Wide Web, roport a growing number of complaints about harassing and threaten­ing behavior onlino, it said. The head of the sex crimes unit in the Manhattan District Attorney's Office reported that about 20 pnrcent of the unit's cases involve cybnrstalking. 

ll cited several chilling examples. 
In one case, a Los Angeles security guard terrorized a woman who rejected his romantic advances by posting online messages that she fan­tasized about being raped, and listed her phone number and address. 
On at least six occasions, sometimes in the middle of the night, men knocked on her door saying they wanted to rape her. 
A San Diego man sent more than 100 e-mail messages to five female students at the University of' San Diego and the University of California, San Diego last year. They included death thrnats, graphic sexual descriptions and references to the women's daily activities, prosecutors said. 
Federal law enforcement officials have reported many cases in which pedophiles have made advances to children through online chat rooms and later made contact with the children, the report said. 
Technology allows some stalkers to harass victims anonymously, it said. 

page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, September 16, 1999 

.com .con1 .corn 
.COIT1 
.corn .com .com 
.con1 .. c.orn .corn 



.com • ..corn 
.corr, 
con1 .corn .corn ..com 
Why work for one .com, when you can work for hundreds? 

.com 




.com 


.corn .com .corn 
-.corn 
.corn 
.com 
.com  ,con1  
 .corn . .con1  
.com  .con1  .corn  .corn  .com  .GOITI  .com  .com  
.com  .corn  .com  ,com  ,COITl  ,com  
.corn  
 .corn  ,CO!TI  
.r0rn  .com  corn·  .com  con1  .con1  

 
 .corr,  


FORTUNE You haven't gotten this far by limiting
.corn 10G?°~'t>:~~ •• your possibilities. And if you want to ~NIH 
ro WORK FOR go even farther. consider the possibilities 


at Ernst & Young. You'll have access to some of the most sophisticated tools in the technology industry and work with some of the companies that help define it. Log on. www.ey.com 


.. ccr 1 



Thursday, September 16, 1999 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Eight dead in church shooting 

Associated Press 
FOHT WOHTH, Texas 

A man shouting obscenities und mocking religion walked into a church service for teen­agt!rs Wndnesday night, pulled a gun and opened fire, fatally shooting seven before he shot and killed himself in a church pew. 
"lln hits the door real hard to makn his presence known and he just imrnediati~ly started fir­ing," said Dax Hughes. the church's colleg11 minister. 
The man, using a largn-cal­ibnr handgun, fatally shot three adults and three teen-agers in th<i church, and wounded at least eight more before he killed himself. said Lieutenant David Ellis of the Fort Worth Police D{Jpartmenl. The uighth pnrson died in the hospital. 
Seven more wcru taken to the hospital with shooting injuries, found at the church. Ellis said. several in extremely critical Police feared the gunman may condition, Ellis said. have wired himself with explo­
Police said they did not have a sives, so the local bomb squad 
motive for the shoot• ing. The 
"He hits the door real 
m a n 
hard to make his
appeared to be was presence known and he 
in his 20s just immediately 
or 30s, 
started firing."
po I ice said, but they did Dax Hughes not know 
minister
his identi­ty. J u s t 
and the Federal Bureau of Alcohol. Tobacco and Firearms sent in a robot to search his body for explo­sives. 
Authorities have not been able to remove the other bodies from the church because of the possibility of bombs. 
About 150 

Handyman deemed hero in shootings 
the lobby with her children
Associat~d Press 

when the shooting began. Trinh's 72-year-old mother, 
ANAHEIM. Calif. 
Mot Trinh, had been treated
A hospital handyman who 
at West Anaheim Medical
held a set of doors closed 
Center in June
against a gunman was hailed 
for an undisclosed illness. 
by those he saved as a fallen 
She was taken to Anaheim
hero, one of three killed in a 
Memorial West Hospital early 
shooting spree at West 
Tuesday and died
Anaheim Medical Center. 

about five hours later. 
The shooting rampage 
After her death, police
began Tuesday morning 
Lieutenant Steven Walker
when, police say, 42-year-old 
said Trinh drove a few blocks
Dung Trinh walked into the 
to West Anaheim Medical
hospital and started firing. 
Center. opened fire and killed 
Authorities said Trinh was 
the three people.
apparently 
Neither 
angry at the 
police nor

hospital 'Tm here to say God hospital
over the 

bless the man that did officials
death of his 
would spec­

mother at save our lives for trying 
ulate why

another to shut the doors so it Trinh was
hospital 

wouldn't come out angry at the
earlier in 
hospital.

the day. to the lobby." 
Po Ii c e
Witnesses 
identified
said Ronald 

Debbie Cooper the other
Robertson, 
victims as

witness 
after the 7 p.m. shooting at Wedgwood Baptist Church, a pipe bomb exploded on a bal­cony inside the sanctuary, but police did not know of any injuries. 
A bomb squad was inspecting sevriral suspicious packages young people were inside the sanctuary after the annual "See You at the Pole" gathering at local schools. where students affirm their faith and concern for the problems of society by holding prayer time around their school's flagpole. 

9,000 held back due to test error 
Auociated rress 
NEW YORK 

Nearly 9,000 public school children in New York Citv were sent to summer schol;I this year or held back a grade because of a scoring error by a testing company. 
CTB/Mr.Graw-Hill. a Monterey, California-based company that has tested mil­linns of students across the nation in its 72 years, noti­fied the Board of Education ahoul the mistake this wnek. Ni1rn other school jurisdictions wern affocted as well, but the company rul'used lo name tlwm. 
Schools chancellor Hudy 
Crew called for an indepen­dent audit of the testing com­pany,. which received more than $2 million from the schonl board in 1998, and demanded company officials attend a board meeting Wednesday to explain how the error occurred. 
"I want to sincerely apolo­gize lo everyone affected," company president David Taggart told the board. 
Student test scores were incorrectly lowered because of a mathematical error, said CTB/McGraw-Hill spokesman Steven Weiss. He said scores wou Id rise "modestly upward" with the use of new calibrations. A total of 8,668 students who actually pass_ed the tests were marked as hav­ing failed. 
The mistake also lowered the overall evaluation of school performance. 
The explanation did little to mollify angry school officials, parents and student advocacy groups as the board scram­bled to identify the students. 
"I can't tell you how angry I am," board president William Thompson told Taggart. "Why would I use your company after this?" 
The tests, given last spring to 300,000 students in grades three, five, six and seven, weighed heavily in determin­ing that 35,000 students needed to attend summer school. 

51, tried to close the doors on the gunman, who had already shot two other employees and was heading toward the hospital's lobby where dozens of people were milling about. 
While shutting the doors, Rohertson was shot in the chest. Then, according to wit­nesses, a wounded Robertson jumped on the gunman, try­ing to hold him back, and was shot twice more. 
The gunman was finally disarmed by employees. 
''I'm here to say God bless the man that did save our lives for trying to shut the doors so it wouldn't come out to the lobby," said Debbie Cooper, who was in 
Marlene 

Mustaffa, 60, of Buena Park, a nurse's assistant, and Vincent Rosetti, 51, of Seal Beach, who ran the pharmacy. 
Robertson, who was direc­tor of environmental services and responsible for the hospi­tal's housekeeping duties, had been with the hospital 10 years. 
He was married and had three children. 
Hospital spokeswoman Debra Culver said crisis intervention counseling was being offered to both patients and hospital staffers. 
"They were all wonderful individuals," she said of those who died. "I knew them and I, too, am feeling the loss." 

Please recycle The Observer 
Celebrate the fall season with a change in dining. 
~s 
-------------3 20 
page 10 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, September 16, 1999 
Judge delays Branch Davidians wrongful death lawsuit 
Associated P rcss 
WACO, Texas 
A judge on Wednesday delayed the trial of a wrongful death lawsuit brought by sur­viving Branch Davidians against the government, saying more time is needed for feder­al officials to produce the evi­dence he demanded. 
U.S. District Judge Walter Smith. who has battled the Justice Department over the scope of his demand, acknowl­edged that the department intends to comply with his order to turn over documents and evidence related to the 1993 Waco siege and its fiery end. 
"However, the physical transfer of control of all of this evidence will take longer than originally anticipated by the 
court," Smith wrote. "Therefore, the current trial setting of October 18. 1999. will be impossible to main­tain." 
Smith has yet to set a new court date. He said the govern­ment's request for a fall 2000 date was "unrealistic" and he will not postpone the trial for a year. 
On Sept. 2. Smith ordered the government to surrender all evidence by October 1 or face a contempt of court citation. 
"We believe the judge appro­priately recognized that gath­ering all these materials would take longer than October 1," said Justice Department spokesman Myron Marlin. 
A lawyer for the plaintiffs, Jim Brannon of Houston, called Smith's decision "wonderful news." 
"That allows us more time to dig for the evidence we need," Brannon said. And, with con­gressional and independent inquiries under way in Washington, "we can possibly take advantage of some of that now." 
Smith's order comes a day af'ter the Justice Department announced it had removed from the case the entire feder­al prosecutor's office for West Texas. including the prosecu­tor who first raised concerns about a cover-up at Waco. The department said he and his colleagues are potential wit­nesses in the independent inquiry into the government siege. 
On February 28, 1993, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms agents raided the rural home of Branch Davidian leader David Koresh and his followers. Four agents 
Watchdog group finds contamination 
As.ociated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Federal reports collected by a watchdog group indicate a southern Ohio defense plant handled a more dangerous, undiluted type of plutonium­laced uranium than 1.he gov­ernment has previously acknowledgPd. 
Documents gathered by the Uranium Enrichment Project include an Energy Department report describing plutonium contamination at an unused building in the Portsmouth Gaseous Diffusion Plant com­plex at Piketon, Ohio. 
Another described spent nuclear fuel going directly from a federal storage facility in Idaho to the Portsmouth Plant. Spent nuclear fm"l would have a higher plutonium level than material that arrived at Piketon from its sister facility in Paducah, Kentucky, since some purification would have been done in Kentucky. 
Mary Byrd Davis, the Uranium Enrichment Project researcher who has been gath­ering data about the Piketon plant, said the reports were among stacks of unclassified material available for public inspection at DOE facilities. 
The documents' existence was first reported Wednesday by The Columbus Dispatch. 
The Energy Department was in the midst of a comprehen­sive study of how the nation's nuclear arsenal was handled during the Cold War years. One of that study's goals is to deter­rnine which plants handled spent nuclear fuel, in what quantities, and with what amount of plutonium contami­nation. 
Last month, the government said the Paducah plant handled about 100,000 tons of plutoni­um-laced uranium. 
A congressional hearing into the Paducah contamination and the safety of that plant's work­ers had been scheduled for Thursday, but the expectation of severe rains from Hurricane Floyd led House leaders to can­cel all legislative business until further notice. A Commerce Committee spokesman said the hearing had not been resched­uled. 
Ohio State Representative Ted Strickland said he had been hoping to use the hearing to question DOE officials about the Piketon plant in his district. 
CAR TROUBLE??? 
CALL 
PEPPERS IMPORTS 
287-4920 
Foreign and Domestic 
*ASE CERTIFIED *LOW TOWING RATES *FREE PICK UP AND 
DELIVERY 
located at: 774 Lincoln Way East South Bend 
"I think whatever we hear about Paducah could be rele­vant to Portsmouth because the problems i.vere similar in nature," he said. 
Strickland's questions arc tho same ones DOE is trying to answer nationwide: What material was there. is it still there, and if not, where did it go'? 
The Energy Department said it believes Piketon handled onlv small quantities of undiluted spent nuclear fuel. but at this point officials cannot say exact­ly what those quantities were, according to spokesman Jeff Sherwood. 
Paducah so far has been the focus of attention by both DOE and Congress. 

and six cult members died in a gun battle after the Davidians were tipped to the impending raid. Following a 51-day siege, Korcsh and nearly 80 others died after a fire consumed the compound. 
Surviving Davidians and the relatives of the dead later sued, challenging the govern­ment's conclusion that the cult members started the fire and that they shot first during the raid. The lawsuits were consol­idated into one case that was to open in Waco federal court next month. 
In recent weeks, the FBI has acknowledged for the first time that its agents used potentially incendiary devices at Waco. The move came after an inde­pendent filmmaker and others led their own inquiries into the devices. 
In delaying the case, Smith apparently took into account the far-reaching nature of his August 9 order demanding that all federal agencies turn over any Waco-related documents or items to his court. 

That order prompted a skir­mish with Justice officials, who contended Smith was overstep­ping his authority and that the request would "impose an unwarranted and substantial burden on the federal govern­ment." 
In Wednesday's order, Smith also warned the plaintiffs that although he is moving the evi­dence to a central location. they "will not be granted blan­ket access to these materials' without making proper discov­ery requests." 
Brannon said he has yet to gain access to evidence held by the Texas Rangers or items in possession of other agencies. 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE !JAMI·: INTEHNATIO~ -\I. ST! :in-l'IH)<;H,\M lN 
CAIRO, EGYPT 
INFOUM.·l T!Ol\ :\fl:fJJNCi 
With .Julliet ~l.l\injn. Asshlant Din·ctnr lnlrrrrntional S.tudy Programs Profess<n \"1ulumrct c:ad-El-llnh And RrlUrning St11ch.•,1ts 
Thunday September 16, 1999 4:45 l'i\1 205 llPBartolo 
¦¦¦ Notre Dame Center 
¦·••-for Ethics and Religious ¦ ¦ ¦ Values in Business 
Proudly Announces the 
The Cardinal O'Hara Lecture Series 
LYNN MARTIN: 

Former Secretary of Labor under George Bush TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 21 
SPENCER NUNLEY: ,cl Former Vice President and Ombudsperson, 'S l~t BAYER Corporation rl"flB TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 28 ete ttendll 
ELMER JOHNSON: 

President of the Aspen Institute TUESDAY, OCTOBER 5 
GEORGE fRANKUN: 
Vice President, Kellogg Company TUESDAY, OCTOBER 12 
JOANNE CIULLA: 

Family Chair of Leadership and Ethics, Jepson School of Leadership Studies, University of Richmond, Virginia TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 9 
to" 
de11ts
_st&I ,,,111t1 
-.st•ff 

ALL LECTURES AT 7:30 P.M. IN THE JORDAN AUDITORIUM OF COBA 


Thursday, September 16, 1999 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
p 

Power plant pollution 
s ecial Appearance 

prompts intervention 

Meet author 
Tom Coyne 
Thursday 
September 16th 
7:00 pm 
in the Bookstore 

Will be signing copies of his 
new short story included in 
"Virgin Fiction 2". 
Please join us for this event. 
HAMMES 
NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
phone: 6Jl-63lf, • www.ndboak1tart.com 
FRIDAY 5EPfEMBER :241H Af 5f.PA1'5 COUNfY PARK KONCERf5 FOR KID5 
WELCOMES 




....J 
w 
a: 
::) 
<t: 
AUTEN RD 
I 
Associated Press 
ALBANY, N.Y. 
New York's attorney general threatened Wednesday to sue coal-fired power plants in the Midwest and South if they don't stop spewing pollution that causes acid rain and smog in the Nort.hcasl. 
"Air pollution simply knows no boundaries," Eliot Spitzer said. 
The lawsuits would be the first by a state attorney gener­al against private companies in another state over pollution, Spitzer spokesman Darren Dopp said. 
Surrounded by images of belching smokestacks and acid-rain devastated forests, Spitzer said he would seek "enormous" damages from 17 plants in Indiana, Kentucky, Ohio, Virginia and West Virginia if they do not reach an agreement with the state in two months. 
He accused the plants of fail­ing to upgrade equipment that cleans smokestack emis"sions when they made other big investments in their facilities, a requirement under the fed­eral Clean Air Act. It is sup­posed that the plants rnfused to make adjustmPnts because of the expense. The plants pro­duco a third of' the emissions that come from their regions, he said. 

A spokesman for Anrnrican Electric Power Co. -which owns 11 of the 17 plants on Spitzer's list -said AEP hasn't expanded plant capacity so it hasn't been requirnd to make pollulion cquiprnont upgrades. 
"What AEP has done at our facilities meots the dnfinition of maintcnancP.," said AEP spokesman Pat Hemlepp. "We're required to provide a reliable source of electricity for customers." 
Other industry reprnsenta­tives said they were confident that they would prevail in court against any New York lawsuits. 
David Flannery, a spokesman for the Midwest. Ozone Group, a coalition of coal and power companies, said much of the pollution in the Northeast is generated there, not carried by wind. 

l­
a: 
0 

Experience dining in the true~·
z 

spirit of Notre Dame. . ·1 • S.
,-­
M ___ ND 
631-2020 


VIEWPOINT 
O
THE page 12 BSERVER Thursday, September 16, 1999 
THE OBSERVER 
P 0. Box Q. None· Dame. !N 46556 024 South Dining Hall. None Dome. IN 465:,6 EDITOR IN CHIEF Michelle Kwpa 
M~AGING EmTOR  BUSINESS MANAGF.R  
M. Shan11011 Ryan  Oavid Rogero  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  
Laura Pcrelle  

NEWS EDITOR: Tim Logan V1EWJ>0INT EDITOR: Colleen Caughell SPORfS EIJITOR: llrian Kessler Sr.ENE. EDITOR: Michael Vanegas ShiNT MARY'S EDITOR: Noreen Gillespi<: PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Datum 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Bryan Lutz 
AD DE.'iJGr-; MANAGER: Bret Hudar SYSTEMS ADMINlSTRhTOR: Michael Reven; WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kushro 
Com ROLLER: Timothy Lane GIL\l'HICS Eo1TOR: Joe Mueller 
CONTACT Us 
OFPICE MANAGER/GENERAL [NF0..............63 l-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 AIJVERTISINC.. .........................63 l-6900/8840 
obscrver@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN Cmn........................................ 631-4542 MANAGING EonoRIAssT. ME................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE.......................................631-5313 NEWS........................................................ 631-5323 observer.obsnews. I@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoim. l@nd.ed,, SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sporcs. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................,...............631-4 540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S..................... : ....................... 631-4324 
observer.smc.1@nd.edu PHOTO ........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visi, our Web si,e a, http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion colu~ns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associa,ed Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for
weather for up-ro-the 
minute forecasts 
weekly srudem reviews 
online features for spe­
advertise for policies 
and rates ofprim ads 
cial campus coverage 
about The Observer
archives co search for 
to meet d1e editors and 
articles published after 
sraff
August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is rl1e independem, daily newspaper published in prim and online by ,he S[udenrs ofrhe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saine Mary·s College. Editorial content is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither insrirution. ~cring as· pub­lisher ofThe Observer, the adminimarion of ,he University of Notre Dame du Lac prohibits the adver­tisement ofalcohol and The Observer's acceprance of advertisements from specified types ofgroups. 
The news is ,eponed as accurately and objecrively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief: Managing Editor, Assisr:int Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Queuiom regarding Ob,en,erpolicies should he direct­id to Editor i11 Chiej,'vfichef!t Krupa. 


You have to love what you know 
"If you want to know something, you have to love it" -one of the first things uttered from Prol'essor Andrew Weigert as I sat and decided whether or not I wanted to bother with trying to get into this "environment 
Angela
related Sociology course." As our Anderson learning communi­ty discussed this 
For a More
idea, it really 
Just and
began to resonate 
Humane World
with my experience 
here at Notre 
Dame and in my journey through life. "To know" and "to love," what incredible concepts with the ability to empower not only individ­
uals but also communities. "Could you 
know something and not love it, or per­haps love something without knowing it?" As these words echoed from 
Professor Weigert, I came to realize they cannot. Knowing and loving is a reciprocal process that challenges us every day in our journey for truth, jus­tice and a sense of being present in the world. None of my experiences.have proved this to me more than my service learning experiences through the Center for Social Concerns. Let me share. 
During my freshmen year, I was immersed in the migrant worker com­munity of Immokalee, Fla., through the Migrant Experiences Seminar, where I came to know and love a part of my family history and current reality of farm-workers in America. It was a journey where the knowledge ~ou obtain makes you aware of the injus­tices and stress experienced by a migrant worker. Through this experi­ence the love that grew was one not only for a community but the responsi­bility to take into consideration their hardship and question our actions as consumers, voters and Christians in the world. Tqe process of knowledge and love is not exactly warm and fuzzy. That is the awe of this process, because your emotions and mind are called to come to a recognition of your position and effect in regards to other commu­nities. The love is the compassion I dis­covered and the knowledge is the reali­ty of migrant farmworker enduring life ethic and challenges. 

This theme continues in my many journeys of service learning. The lead­ership and community organizing issues in the barrio of San Diego are nurtured by the process of knowing and loving. Communities need to work side by side, collectively and patiently, to defend and promote their communities that they love by sharing and taking in knowledge of the diverse and often dis­couraging barriers to be found in local government. By doing this, you begin the stage of building a community that fosters dialogue, cooperation and a commitment to endure in one another's struggles. The best example of this was when the council representative from the Barrio Logan district moved into the community to learn and explore ways to assist in reconstruction and progress. 
My encounter with the third world through the means of providing a tech­nical and educational service to Haitians presented this concept in a completely different way. Our work in Haiti shoved the reality of the wide gap of the conditions of our two countries and emphasized that service is not just a "handing out." Our efforts to provide safe and reliable water sources was part of a realization that the aid they have been given in the past has been a disservice. It was a case of caring and love without the knowledge and sensi­tivity to the Haitian social and cultural reality. That week. both the community from Notre Dame and the Haitians endured in a process of knowing and loving; in many instances, we met fail­ure. However, it was a step in a rela­tionship that can be nurtured between the "educated" students from Notre · Dame and the country of Haiti in years to come. 
Funded through a Kellogg Institute research grant, my recent work with small Christian communities (SCCs) in Bolivia really draws on the essence of these concepts of knowledge and love. It is best shown in the wiiy Henri. Nouwen illustrates gospel Luke 24, the road to Emmaus: the process of walk­ing, listening, communicating and final­ly communion with individuals and events you cncountfll' in life. SCCs live this everyday with one another and rec­ognize it is a cyclical process that spills knowledge and love not only of the scripture but also of their vocations to serve God in their everyday lives. 
Knowing and loving is a gift the Notre Dame community offers us in our four years here. There is a never-ceasing process to this process and it applies to everyone one.of us in any path we choose to take after we leave this com­munity. It is a call to community activists, bankers, academics, business professionals, clergy, lawyers, doctors, scientists ... the list goes on and on. I have been blessed to practice this con­cept through my many experiences and witness it through individuals at the CSC; faculty such as Dr. Silliman and Father Pelton and the names do not cease. Each has a passion for his work that unfolds knowledge and love. Professor Weigert introduced a con­sciousness that awareness enlightens our lives and helps us on our journey of embracing the agapic nature of our world and society. 
And, by the way, I am taking 
. Professor Weigert's course, and under­going the next process of discovering the reciprocal process of "to know" and "to love." 
For a More Just and Humane World is a bi-weekly column sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns. Comments and discussions are welcome at ND.ndcntrsc.1@nd.edu. Angela Anderson is a senior Government major with a Theology minor in the Public Service Concentration. She is past chairperson of the Experiential learning Council and was the winner of the.Indiana Campus Compact's Richard 
J. Wood Award for commitment to pub­lic service and leadership. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
DILBERT 

THERE'S NO WA.Y 
TO eiE 'oURE UNLE.55 YOU REMOVE. THE 5Hf..£.TROCI<. AND 
LOOK. 
____________.......-i.c.....-~'L--...i.;......;....;,,.;.;.... 

SCOTT ADAMS 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"To see some ofour be$l-educated boys spending the afternoon knocking each other down. while thousands cheer them on, hard­
. 

ly gives a picture of a peace-louing nation." 
Lyndon Baines Johnson President of the United States 


VIEWPOINT 

O
THE Thursd.1y, Seprernbcr 16, 1999 BSERVER page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Sprinkler excess makes sense only for mosquitos 

I lik11 wal1ir ll cools my body, looks cool in photographs. and makes a woman's T-shirt that much more phi11sing to look al. Watnr also keeps Urn grass gr<)!!ll, but rluring my short liuw hnrn at ND. it has also begged to rais1• llw question. dons il also kenp thn sidnwalks that ruddy shade of gray't 
Every 1•vm1ing, as the sun sets lhr anotlll'r night of rnst. the sprinklers turn on in a synchronous form that tho Nil marching baml would bn proud of, Powerful streams of' waler jllltison from the sprinkler below, crnating a picturPsquo scone' worthy of a Heinbrnndt, or a Chinese lire drill if you find any unlucky pnrson within ten l'net of a sprinkler, run­ning and ducking for cover. These spri11klers spray their watery goods for who-knows-how-long, drenching 1werything within its 360 degrnc radius. By llw time the sprinklers am finished Notre Dame looks morn lik11 Water World than an lnl1irnalionally recognizncl Catholic University with a football tnam that 1wNls lo huy 1ww watdws. 
Ttw point is that nvnryonc likes grnnn grass: .lust look at how many peoplP risked line and ostracizmrnmt to illegally water their lawns during tlw East Coast's worst draught in n1cordcd history. l!ownver, how much watPr is ~nough to use on 
Noble idea suffers lopsided logic 

This is in rnsponse to the report in yesturday's Observer on Victor DeNobles talk about the tobacco industry. and its effort to hide facts from tlrn public that would have alfocted the industry. Such revela­tions have been in the news for sometime, making the tobacco industry a pariah enterprise. 
Them arc also million dollar law suits aimed at the tobacco industry, which the tobacco industry has sheepishly agrrnid to settln. Whal IkNoble says may be true, and one is lnmpted to accept his portrayal of a lab with crazy, or in this caso, evil scientists working against humanity, but there is a tlip side to the whole issun. 
I may bn playing thn devils advo­caln Imm, but them am some points to be mude and raised in this regard: 
•Thn tobacco industry, likl' any otlwr husinnss, is them to makn money, of coursn, but not over peo­ple's lives. Their primary function is to be in businoss, allrar.l new cus­tomnrs, and light compntition. As part ()f I! & D, most industries am engaging in ~expnriments," or activi­lies that might be construed as being against public intornst. 
For quite some time, cigarette packs hnvn carried a stern warning about its injurious effects. 
It has not bnrm conclusively proved in all casHs that rusultant ilhwss and deaths were causl'Cl by tobacw. 
•Theni am nuuiy otlwr industries, 
grass before it becomes excessive? AftPr all. the soil can only absorb that much water before it becomes an overflowing sponge. The only things that soem to benefit from the over-and mis-use of' water are fomale mosquitoes. I can just imag­ine limy have with the hundreds of pools of still water to breed, who could possibly infect you with yellow fever (und we're not talking about "Asian Image") or the dreaded St. Louis Encephalitis of INTENSE PAIN. 
I'd probably have better luck find­ing out how much water is enough by asking the squirrels with those funky brn.,vn tails than any landscap­ing administrator. No one seems to know why the sprinklers arc as inef­ficient as they are. I guess we'll never know; the case of Notre llame's overactive sprinklers and their muddv brown sidewalk side­kicks will g;> down as one of the great mysteries in the annals of Time, along with "Who shot .I.R." and "how the Rock is able to lift his nyebrow so high." Oh well, I suppose I am content enough to know at least the mosquitoes are happy. 
David Woo Freshman Siegfried Hall September 15, 1999 
like liquor and gun, which are responsible for a great number of deaths and illnesses (there are 16,000 deaths by drunk driving every year!). It was after the recent spate of school killings that public and media attention has focussed on gun control in earnest, but the industry is adept at dodging the bul­let. 
Blaming the tobacco industry for such death and illnesses is like blaming the liquor industry for drunk driving deaths. But there are no warning labels on beer cans or bottles. Binge drinking has caused many deaths on campuses recently. Kids experiment with smoking as they do with many other things as part of adolescent bravado. Cigarette ads are as innocent -or as provocative -as ads for liquor. No one forces old bags to smoke them­selves to death. 
My point is. people who smoke and continue smoking, despite the warn­ing labnls and the vigorous anti­smoking campaign, have only them­selves to blame for illness or death. 
IF tobacco vigilantes pay a little more attention to the gun and liquor industry, many more lives could be saved. 
Norman Sattar Graduate student Government September I5, 1999 

Football more important than academics 
I am writing this letter in response to Kvie Smith's letter to the Observer in yes­terday's paper. The idea that Mr. Smith would like to get rid of the football team is one of the most unbelievable letters I have ever read in the Observer. Where is your sense of tradition, Mr. Smith? Where is your love for the school that has such a great relationsh.ip wilh its football team? Had it not been for football, there are many wonderful people and individuals who would have probably not gone to this school. Mr. Smith must be some sort of highly philosophical person and probably is backwards in many things he does. I am even willing to say he is probably from Kentucky and probably a Lyle Lovett 
~ 
. . . . 
. 
. ' . 

fan for that matter. Well, in closing, I am 
proud of our football team and even 
though they have not done that good this year, I am still going to support them and cheer for them like I have in the past. If 
Mr. Smith doesn't want to then he can just go and meditate under a tree or something and think about what this school and football team mean to him. 
Drew Brennan Senior Off campus September I 5, 1999 
EXTRA! EXTRA! 
ND FOOTBALL STAYS! RIDICULOUS OFF-CAMPUS SENIOR TRANSFERS TO "ELITE" IVY-LEAGUE SCHOOL. 
Removing the football program, and making all scholarships academic is the silliest idea I have ever heard. The last thing we need here are more super-intel­ligent people who don't know a lick about Notre Dame football and the traditions that surround it. Hey, wasn't Knute Rockne that professor who made the physics department so sloried and renowned around the country? And wasn't George Gipp a famous English major from ol' ND, who went on to become a Nobel Laureate? NO! Who comes here for physics or English, or an education in general'? NOT THIS GUY! If football wern a major, I'd graduate Summa Cum Laude (What is a Nobel Laureate anyway'!) 
Now correcting the problems on our football team is a separate task, but we can begin by forcing all those students who know nothing about Notre Dame football (and hence. know nothing about everything that is Notre Dame) to a differ­ent school that welcomes those who value their education. This is probably an unre­alistic goal, but something that is attain­able is for every student wishing to pur­chase football season tickets should be forced to take a test on the history of Notre Dame football; all those who pass get season football tickets, all those who fail get season science bowl tickets. 
Nnw I could have misread the article and our hero who seemed concerned about our educational ranking may very well have been making an attempt to be sarcastic. If this is the case, he should be shunned all the same, since the sarcastic effort was very, very poor. Whatever the case, Notre Dame football is not going anywhere ... ooh, except maybe out of the NCAA altogether. Yeah, how about that? 

All those people who love Notre Dame football more than a Notre Dame educa­tion (and possibly more than life itsell) should lobby to get 10 college teams (including powerhouses like Florida State, Penn State, Ohio State, Nebraska, etc.) to separate themselves from the educational realms of there school and from the NCAA entirely. We could form our own league, and just follow the teams around like "roadies." That way Wfl won't be subject to NCAA infractions, horrible Big-Ten 0111­ciating, or worst of all, education. Oh, how sweet it would be! 
But that's still a few years away ... back to reality. Rid the school of all those peo­ple who know nothing of Notre Dame football -they may know the square root of4761, but I bet they don't know who the four horsemen were. 
Thank you and good night! 
(Note: The grammar in this article may have been compromised for a lack of enthusiasm in education.) 
Chris Mudd Junior Dillon Hall September 15, 1999 

O
THE 

page 14 BSERVER Thur~day, September 16, 1999 
MOVIE REVIEW 

'Love Stinks' So does the movie 
By JOEY LENISKI Scene Movie Criric 
Watching a new release in an empty movie theater is an ominous sign that the film is an unmitigated disaster -it says that your $6 would have been bet­ter spent watching "Star Wars: Episode One" for the seventh time I.his summer. 
dresses like the King to please boy's wildest sexual fantasy. boy finds he can­not commit to an Elvis Impersonator and so on. The movie winds around this same basic tenant several times, each revolution gaining less steam but more viable lmmor. 
A perverse blend of r.omic mishap and sexual domination, "Love Slinks" fails on virtually every 


annoying performances, the actors' names themselves fail to scream "box­office phenomenon" -a sitcom regular, a lovv-budget movie queen, an MTV VJ. a supermodel with little prior acting experience and a few former Playmates for eye-candy alone. They could have stirred more audience enthusiasm from 
a. human corpse (given that the corpse was a male, of course). 
And much to the disappointment of the l1ocking pubescent male audience, the rather "top-heavy" investments that the producers cast as the female leads neither Jlaunt nor feign much convinc­ing sexuality. Most of it shakes out of' Tyra Banks' loose-fitting dress-top while she shimmies during the opening wedding celebration. 

"Love Stinks" begs the question: "Does love necessarily have to comple­ment sexual fulfillment?" According_ to the script the answer is no. but only if the plot joins a possessive harlot with a career bachelor, neither who havn any clue what actual love means. That is the extent to whkh this l'ilm presses your reasoning ability. 
Do not go to this movie for advice on love. Go to make some seriously chapped-lips with your date in the back row for the duration. Interestingly enough, the tagline for this movie reads, "Sometimes the best sex in the world ... just isn't worth it." Neither is this film. 
levP!. Thf' movie is 
An even more dismal ''Love Stinks" written a.nd directed scenario is watching a by Jeff Franklin, nf'w rnlease in a dark famed producer of theater with only a TGIF fare such as lone couple who, after "Full IIouse" and deliberation, chose "Hangin' With \1.r.
out offive shamrocks 
rather conspicuously to Cooper." 
sit way in the back Unfortunately for where tile theater Director: Jell Franklin Franklin, boob-tube managers could not triumph docs not nec­afford to put any lights. Starring: Bill Bellamy, French Pssarily translatn into 
It says that this Stewart, Bridgette Wilson and Tyra celluloid success. 
movie appeals only to Banks 
the rather pathetic couple who. desperate for variety in their relationship, ratio­
nalize that $12 is not too much to invest for an evening of sucking-face lo a soundtrack filled with mindless dialogue and horribh~ one-liners. 
The experience gained to write this review was the latter, and with every creaking armrest and slurping sound from the back of theater, movie critic hell approached faster and faster. 
Now that the mood has been estab­lished. "Love Stinks." 
"Love Stinks" is a story ripped straight from the script pages of an Aaron Spelling throw-avvay. 
Seth Winnick (French Steward) waits anxiously in tux and tails to marry heavenly Chelsea (Bridgette Wilson). but best-friend Larry (Bill Bellamy! drags him into a airplane bathroom to remind him how rocky the love-boat trip has been. The rest of the movie is told in l1ashback narrative, complete with a Bill Bellamy voice-over. which gives the movie some semblance of a plot to follow and hopefully resolve. 
The story is familiar: Boy meets girl. boy likes girl, girl turns psycho and 
Years of television 
training left its mark 
on the film. a point painfully obvious to the viewing audi­ence which came expecting m()re. 
The players never get the chance to move around or have fun in this fiction­al world. They remain blissfully con­fined in claustrophobia, framed like talking heads in painted boxes. 
The characters in the film meander hopelessly through a sitcom-style plot which Jerry, George, Elaine and Kramer probably would have under­mined in the span of 20 minutes. That would have at least been fun to watch. 
Instead we are force-fed overplayed drama. tricked into believing the gen­uineness of the main players, and bar­raged constantly with witless sarcasm and physical humor. None of it amounts to more than five minutes worth of entertainment from a "Seinfeld" episode. 
Given such a hapless predicament, it would seem natural to alleviate the actors from the blame for this film tragedy. That would be kind consider­ing the amount of damage poor acting reaps on the advertising campaign alone. Aside from their dismal and often 

===========--~..:.======================================================================================================= 
VIDEO PICK OF THE WEEK 

Slater screams loudly as teenage Howard Stern 
By CASEY McCLUSKEY Scene Movie Criric 
Every generation needs a voice -someone who is not afraid to say "Damn the man" and stand up for those who are afraid to stand up for themselves. 
In "Pump Up the Volume," the students at Hubert 
Humphrey High find their voice in Happy Harry Hard-On (Christian Slater). a radio pirate who
"Pump Up the 
says things that most stud0nts only
Volume" 
wish they had the guts to say. Harry throws the question
Director: Allan Moyle 
out to his listeners
Starring: Christian Slater, -How far will you 
Samantha Mathis and Ahmel Zappa go? At first, most of 
Barry's listeners see Harry as a young Howard Stern whose programs consist primarily of sex talk with little else. And although the majority of the programs deal with 
very controversial subject matter, there is always a mes­sage for the students. 
I larry sees how things are scrnwed up for the studt>nts and encourages them to stick \Vith .it and 5Uf\ive. Ile does not want the students to shut up and conform, like many adults and administrators do, but rather, he encourages students to be themselves and no matter how hard things get, stick with it and survive. 
As Harry's program becomes more and more popular, more and more students turn to Harry for guidance and help. Students send their deepest secrets and problems to the radio guru because unlike the guidance counselors at the school, Harry is not afraid to dive into certain taboos vvith both feet. 
He uncovers tho real problems that exist in the school because his dad is the school commissioner. Harry expos­es all the dirty secrets of the school that administrators love to cover up. and begins to enrage those who cannot control him. ­
When a student in the high school commits suicide, the adults of the community look for a scapegoat. They find no bfltt.er scapegoat tlrnn the student who is rocking the boat. 
Many adults folt that their community of Paradise Hills, Ariz., was perfect until Harry came along and stirrf'd up all oftheir problems. 
The students know that thAse problems were them and that they always have been. Harry simply took thorn out from under the covers. He encouraged people to admit to these problPms and try to fix them, rather than pretend they are not them and hope they will go away. 
The students hear his message and begin to take things into their own hands. They refuse to remain confmed to tl1eir liltle boxes a.nd b<.1gi.n to develop voices of I.heir own. 
''Pump Up thfl Volume" was mostly popular for its key phrases and amazing soundtrack. The music is not the same bubble gum soundtrack one would find on most 

· other teen movies. Like the film, the soundtrack has an edge. This is a movie to rent when feeling a little oppressed by those who are in control -when in need of inspiration to stand up to the man and question authority. It will empow­er anyone to stand up talk hard. ­


Thursday, September l6, 1999 ossiRvER page 15 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Religious terror bleeds into theaters 
ol' course. them was no such action in

By MIKE McMORROW 
tlw sccrrn. Doctors and frirnds arr 

Sernl" Mnvi,· Critic 
bewildered. and soon a miracle-investi­gator from tho Vatican (Gabriel Byrnol!;or anyont• who is wondering, a stig­
is called in to oxamino llrn possibility of mata is an intl'ns1'1y rcdigious 1\x1wri-a stigmata. 11m·.1i in whirh a pnrson 1111dnrg1ws the But thorn's a problnm. as he soon pain that Christ l'i-ll wlwn he WRS being rnalizrn; -slrn is a profosscd atheist. lorlurcd, 11aili·d lo thl' l'.ross and cruci­Acconling to tlw 111m, Catholic doc­li1•d. 
tri 1H1 insists that all stigmatas arf' i\ pPrson who is a stigmata can umlnr­­
"d1icply religious people." But the !-(O up to livH dil'l"lH"1•1it lcVl'ls of' sUgmata, (iabri1d Bvrnu character is not entirely 
which innnasP in intensity Pach tinw. salisfind, so Im stays a whilo to strn lw.;_, 
No onP has PV!'I' 
llui situation pans rPaclwd all fiv,1 lnvnls, out. Of course>, slrn acl'ording to thP IH'W "Stigmata" 
has another attack. Iii 111 "Stigmata." 
Thn plot is thick0r Tlw li1111 also i-qmrts than it s,•ems with stigmata as having tlw 
this crudr. summary.P,\IH'ri1•t1f'.l'S of' !)OSS('S­are issues
Ther,i
out uffive shwrimcb

Sillll rnixl'cl with till' with lost gospels, "rn,rnif'Pstations of' t hP 
corrupt. Ch urcli
Director: Rupert Wainwright

pains of Christ." authoriti11s, excom­"Stigmata" is 1111t Starring: Patricia Arquette, mu1Jicatnd priests PXal'I Iv a IPss1m in tlw­
and nwssPngnrs fromology _-whirh is all Lhat Gabriel Byrne, Jonathan Pryce and 

Cod. n•ally 111:Pds to h" said. Nia Long On the surface. a ll1•fi11itio11s and 
lot of' this is fun in an admissions asidP, "Stigmata" sti1rs admittmlly trashy sort of' way. l'alril'ia i\rqur.tt1• as a 23-y,)ar old lluwevcr, it is not entirely fair to l'ittshurgh hairdri•ss,•r who one day 
accusn the f'ilm of being completely i1111oc1mtly takns a hath and begins to as issues am
exploilivo, raised about u11d1irgo f!Xtraordinary convulsions. tlw possibility and nature of' miracles, Sim has thn sonsation and physical 
and they are treated slightly more t•vidPnn• of' lwing whippml and having 
thoughtfully than one might have 

had nails tlrillt•tl througb her wrists, but taken, the lilm should by no means be a religious-abrasive to no purpose. They
gum;snd from the trailers. Don't be mis-lesson in Catholic dogma, but that hav­have a nice connection that wisrly, ing br.en said, it provokes some thought thought just barely, stays platonic. concerning certain religious issues. A lot of' noise is going to lrn made 

Initially. the main problem with about the appropriateness of' such a film "Stigmata" seemed to be tone, but it is -Is it purr.ly anti-Catholic'! Or is it not entirelv accurate. Then~ are sensationalism us11d merely to get p1w­moments of quiet respect and charactr,r ple into theaters'? developnrnnt that come unexpected. Certainly it plays on anti-establish­
Certain scenes, however, including ment themes that have bnen around several of' the stigmata sequences, rely longnr tha11 the movie industry itself. far too heavily on visceral sensational­The idea of Vatican corruption is not ism. lo the point where the religious original. and tlrn movie plays 011 criti­feeling literally gets muddled in the cisms that have existnd for a long time. noise. These scenes would havn been It may have been more internsting to more effective with variation in the way sne the director and scrnr.nwriters try to they play out. say something slightly more original 
There is a lot of' nifty camera work and less antagonistic to the Church. and a lot of sound. but the sheer Movies, and stories in general, that amount gets to be overbearing and ulti­involve Home and the Vatican never mately sensational. The cliche "less is seem to get away from the deprnssing more'' is certainly appropriate here. but admittedly intriguing ideas of cor­
Ultimately, though, the extremely ruption p,~rvading the Vatican. A d1ipar­-­marginal success of' the !ilm is, like so turn would havn bnen rnl'rnshing. many movies, due to the performances. Being a good Notre Dame Catholic, it Gabriel Byrne has a nice blend of priest­is easy to say truthfully that "Stigmata" liness with humanity that creates for a is still fun and occasionally intr.resting. basically believable character. Patricia while certainly sensationalistic and Arquette does wonders with a character trashy. It is hard to admit not enjoying it that could have been portrayed as anti-a little.
Patricia Arquette is possessed by uncertain spirits in "Stigmata." 
Box OFFICE 
Patricia Arquette 
IO-I2 stars in "Stigmata" (reviewed above), this Movie Title Weekend Sales Total Sales weekend's top pick at the box office. 
1. Stigmata $ 18. 3 million $ 18.3 million
Taking in $18.3 mil­

2. The Sixth Sense $ 16. 5 million $ 197. 7 million 
lion, "Stigmata" edged "The Sixth 3. Stir of Echoes $ 5.8 million $ 5.8 million Sense" out of the top 
4. Runaway Bride $ 3.8 million $ 140.5 million 
spot which it has held 

5. Bowfinger $ 3.6 million $ 60.4 million
for the previous five weeks. 6. The 13th Warrior $-3.0 million $ 26.8 million 
.. 

Pholo courtesy ol MGM 7. The Thomas Crown $ 2.7 million $ 61.4 million Affair 
8. 
Mickey Blue Eyes $ 2.2 million $ 30.3 million 

9. 
Chill Factor $ 1.9 million $ 9.6 million 


10. The Blair Witch $ 1.6 million $ 136.3 million Project 
Source: Associated Press 





-------------~--~---------------------------------------------_,________________,,___ 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 16, 1999 
NFL 

Manning, Bledsoe's paths differ from college to pros 
Bledsoe, in his seventh season, good. He progressed very quick­down passes and consecutive after his junior year. Bledsoe,
Al.sociated Press 

is one of the NFL's best quarter­ly." games with at least one touch­who left Washington State after
FOXBORO, Mass. 

backs. Manning, in his second Manning's stock could down pass. his sophomore season, was one
Drew Bledsoe and Peyton 

season, may not need much increase even more if he can He started his second season of the people Manning talked to
Manning took different paths to 

more time to be just as good. lead the Indianapolis Colts to a impressively by throwing for before making his decision. 
become the top picks in NFL 

"He was definitely more suc­win on the road Sunday against 284 yards and two touchdowns "He was in an entirely differ­
drafts. Bledsoe spent two years 

cessful in his rookie season than Bledsoe and the New England in a 31-14 win over Buffalo last ent situation than I was in
in college, while Manning stayed 

I was. I think he had maybe the Patriots. Sunday. where he was coming back to a
the full four. 

best rookie season of any quar­Last season, Manning set NFL This would be Manning's third team that had a chance to win a
Both decisions appear to be 

te rb ac k ever," Bledsoe said rookie records for completions, season if he had decided to national championship," Bledsoe
the right ones. 

Wednesday. "Peyton lookes very attempts, passing yards, touch-leave Tennessee for the NFL said. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. a[ the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 ccn[s per character per <lay, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit a!l da.ssifieds fo[ coment without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

- FREE TRIPS AND CASH!!!  THAT PRETTY PLACE,  BUY A NEW PENTIUM 11 450  FOR SALE  Need tix for Navy. Buy/trade.  
SPRING BREAK 2000  Bed and Breakfast Inn has space  MHZ HP COMPUTER FOR A  N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS  Call 251 ·0001 -Andy.  
NOTICES  available for football/parent wknds.  GREAT PRICE CALL ERIC @  CALL 271-9412  
StudentCity.com is looking tor  5 Rooms with private baths, $80·  4-1882  
CAR WASH!!  Highly Motivated Students to pro­ $115, Middlebury, 30 miles from  NEED OKLAHOMA TICKETS!  Two MSU GA tix for sale. Call  
Sunday, Sept. 19th  mote Spring Break 2000!  campus. Toll Road Exit #107, 1­ CALL TIM, 634-0959  Tim at 4•4853.  
1 0am-3pm at the  Organize a small group and trav­ 800-418-9487.  
Alumni/Senior Club  el FREE!'Top campus  95 Ford Taurus GL loaded Nice  SPRING BREAK 2000  
Sponsored by Class of 2002  reps can earn a Free Trip & over  3-6 BDRM HOMES NEAR CAM·  car,exceilent condition  "THE MILLENIUM"  PERSONAL  
$10,000!Choose Cancun,  PUS. NOW OR 2000/2001.ROOMS  t09,000 highway milage  
LOST & FOUND  Jamaica or Nassau! Book Trips On-Line.  ALSO 272-6306  $4500 Tel 289-7770  Need tix tor Oklahoma, USC. Have 4 BC and 4 Navy to trade.  Gay, Lesbian and Bisexual students of ND/SMC meeting  
Log In and win FREE stuff.  LOADED  Call Michelle. 233-9037or 631­ each Thurs. For info call:  
FOUND: Large male Golden  Sign Up Now On Line!  6 Bedrm '00-01 yr.  4542.  (877)631-6OUT  
Labrador with red collar on campus  www.StudentCity.com or  273-0482 / 234-3831  ARA PARSEGHIAN CHARITY  
on 9/8/99.  800/293-1443  SALE & AUCTION  NEED -NAVY G.A. TICKETS  O'Neill 38 Joe -Thanks for  
Call 289-9967.  3 bdrm duplex, remodeled. 503  C. ZIMMERMAN  carrying me home on Saturday.  
EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNI- Eddy, one mile from campus.  Oct. 15 -9 am -9 pm  573-796-2943  
LOST­ TIES  Appliances, W/D. 273-8332.  Logan Center  CAR WASH!!  
10 minutes from campus  1235 N. Eddy  NEED 5 MICH. ST. TIX  Sunday, Sept. 19th  
ND WALLET & KEYS ON TUES­ KNOLLWOOD COUNTRY CLUB  House for rent. Five bedrooms,  Call 631-7745  Hiam-3pm at the  
DAY. 917. IF FOUND. PLEASE  Presently has the following  two bathrooms, beautiful condi·  Benelitting Ara's Foundation &  Alumni/Senior Club  
CALL ANALISSA  positions available.All positions  tion,$1500/mo.  The Logan Center.  NEED 2 CHICAGO BEARS TIX:  Sponsored by Class of 2002  
- 4-4096.  offer part-time/lull-time,AM­PM/Weekday &  Call Bill at 675-0776.  Call Lawrence for more info, raf­fle tickets, & list of autograph  October 3rd vs. New Orleans Saints. Email me at  
LOST  weekend shifts.  House for rent. 8 bedroo1TLS, two  guests.  DAVE.CARON@ BMC.COM  GRANDMOTHER WILL  
LOCKER ROOM ATTENDANTS­ bathrooms. completely renovated.  219-257-0039.  BABYSIT IN HER HOME.  
FOUND: WATERMAN BALL  M-F/4:45am-9:15am & Sat/5:45  Call Bill al 675-0776.  233-2704  
POINT PEN  am-12:15 pm & 11:45am to 6:15pm  I need a tandem bike. Please call  For Sale: 2GA tix: MState,  
BY SAINT MARY'S LAKE.  Sun/7c45am to 1:15pm and  soon.  Oklahoma 287-1449  
CALL LORA 631-6967  12:45pm to 6:15pm.  BED 'N BREAKFAST  I want to go for a ride.  
BABYSITTERS· Sat/3:45pm to  REGISTRY  Anyone out there up tor a spin?  
9:15pm Sun/10:45am to  219-291-7153  TICKETS  Need one Oklahoma Ticket.  On a tandem bike perhaps?  
WANTED  6:15pm.Must be 18 yrs. of age and  x4017-Chris  
CPR certified.  For rent-houses & apartments  I need 2-4 student or GA tix to  Tune in ... Thursday nights on  
STUDENT OPENINGS  HEALTH & FITNESS SPECIAL­ 299-4928.  Oct. 16 ND vs. USC game. Please  the WB -The World's Oldest  
5-30 hrs./week. Flex. around  IST-Must be PE (K-12),Recreation  call Autumn at 284-5024.  Need MSU tix  Freshman. Starring hot new actress  
classes. Scholarships avail.  or Exercise Science or related  AVAILABLE 2000-01  1 ·800-257-3244 ext2615 Ted  and quirky friend.  
www.workforstudents.com/IN  major.Jr or Sr level preferred.M­ 4-6 Student Rental. Large rooms,  WANTED NOTRE DAME FOOT­ 
282-2357  F/4:45am to 9:15am & 4:45pm to  reasonable, awesome bonus room!!  BALL TICKETS  They're always up to something  
10:15pm.Sat/5:45am to 12:15pm &  Details. Dave 291-2209.  271-1526  I need 2-4 ND vs. USC tickets!  goofy and wacky.  
Spring Break '00  11:45 am to 6:15pm.Sun/7:45am to  GA or student tickets. Please call  
Cancun.Mazatlan or Jamaica  1:15pm and 12:45pm to 6:15pm.  SELL & BUY GA FOOTBALL  Autumn at 284-5024.  Cool people call it WOF. Just a  
From $399  Competitive wages and a pleas­ FoRSALE  TICKETS  tip.  
Reps wanted! Sell 15 and travel  ant working  277-6619  I NEED 2 TIX FOR THIS WEEK­ 
freel LOWEST PRICES GUARAN­ environment.Applications may be  END AGAINST MICH. ST.  Sorry to all the random people on  
TEED!!!  obtained or resumes sent to  Spring Break Specials!Bahamas  WANTED­ PLEASE CALL 634-3080.  the quads we made fun of today.  
lnlo:Call 1-800-446-8355  Knollwood Country Club, 16633  Party Cruise 5 Days $279! Includes  ND football tix.  We're not really that mean.  
www.sunbreaks.com  Baywood Ln.,Granger,IN 46530 or  Meals!  AM -232-2378  FOR SALE ND FOOTBALL  
fax 219-271-4820.For directions or  Awesome  PM -288-2726  TICKETS. NAVY $55. ASU $65.  Ok, we are.  
DON'T WORK THIS SCHOOL  additional information.please call  Beaches,Nightlile!Cancun &  CALL 289-8048  
YEARI $1200 TO $2000 THIS  219-271-1541 ext. 3031. EOE  Jamaica 7 Nights From $399!  ND football tix for sale.  Call Tim tor tix. He'll love you.  
MONTH. Part time 4 to 6 hours per  Florida  AM • 232-2378  NEED 2 MSU TIX  See above ticket sales!  
week. Call 24 hrs  COACH:Need Jr. High boys soc­ $129!springbreaktravel.com  PM -288-2726  CALL DAN 634·0959  
(219) 239-6709  cer coach responsible,depend­ 1-800-678-6386  HAPPY BIRTHDAY, JOSHI  
able,student or grad to coach 7-8th  I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME  WANTED:MSU;USCTICKETS  
Help wanted at 4 Michiana loca­ grade soccer B-team.Soccer Sept­ NEW Prepaid Phone Cards!!!  GAMES.2726551  CALL:247-1659  Do you want to go to the backer,  
tions. Great pay, flex. hrs. No  Oct;for south side elementary  $20 ->669 minutes  backer? Do you?  
Sundays. Apply in person or send  school,located near Scottsdale Mall  Call 243-93€ 1 , ask for Rob  BUYING and SELLING N D  TAILGATER Pass wanted for  
resume to:  on Miami Street.Must be available  FOOTBALL TICKETS. GREAT  B1,C1, or Green Field. Willing to  backer, backer, backer, backer,  
FRULLATI CAFE/UP MALL  for practices Mon-Thurs from 2:20­ FOR SALE  PRICES. CALL 289-8048  pay$$$. call 251-0484  backer. backer.  
6501 N. GRAPE RD. #576  3:15.Game schedule varies with 5-6  N.D. FOOTBALL TIX  
MISHAWAKA, IN 46545  games beginning alter school at  CALL 271-9412  +++++++++++++++++++++++++  2 Mich.St. GA 's for sale. 257­ no more. This is too much.  
4:00,or 5pm.Paid position.Call 291·  ++++  4622 alter 7pm. Best offer.  
SPORTS CLUBS &. STUDENT  4200 to apply.  FOR SALE  N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS  PO-lobby, lobby, lobby  
GROUPS­ N.D. FOOTBALL TIX  BUY/SELL/TRADE  Have BC GA's call Kev '0644  
Earn $1000-2000 with easy CIS  SOCCER REFEREES-needed  CALL 271-9412  ALL GAMES  Hsu -sleepy on the couch.  
Fund event.No sales required. Fund  for south side elementary  ALL LOCATIONS  Selling two MICH ST GAs:  Rock-a-bye. baby.  
Rasier days are tilling up, so call  school,located near Scottsdale Mall  FREE TRIAL OF A BRAND NEW  GREAT PRICES  243-2770  
today Contact Joe @ 1-888-522·  on Miami Street.$20.00 per game to  TECHNOLOGY 30 MIN LONG DIS­ 271-9330  tim you go.  
4350.  qualified refs.Call 291 ·4200  TANCE CALLS FREE SEND SASE  l!NO STUDENT TICKETSII  
TO G MARKS PO BOX 920528  TICKETMART INC.  Need 2 USC GA's  nighty•nite.  
Large Physical Therapy Clinic  NEEDHAM.MA. 02492  www.ndtickets.com  will buy or Have 2 BC GA's to  
looking for part time employees to  One tandem bike. Also need a  +++++++++++++++++++++++++  tradeI!!  I'm Leavin' on a jet plane ...  
do follow up calls. Some filing &  riding partner. Call soon  Bike Huffy 24" 18 gear  +++++  please call 4-4523  
•  Inputting required. Flexible evening hours. Ask for Gerard Call now 233-5754  FOR RENT  only 6 mo. old $60 246-0719 after 7pm  BUYING GA FOOTBALL TICKETS  Not going to OK game? Need Student Sec GA  Hi Kelle!!!!  
LAKEFRDNT BY OWNER, 3  ALL HOME GAMES  247-1949  Don't know when I'll be back  
Loving ND-SMC couple wishes  ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRI•  bdrm. ranch, lg den, 2 car gar., full  277-1659  again!  
to adopt. Will provide a lifetime of  VATE HOME FOR  basement, 3 seas. porch, deck,  2 ND V. ASU tix 4 sale.  
laughter ,love.devotion and opportu­ ND-SMC EVENTS.  most ev. new, much more. 15 mi.  Selling to MSU GA's. Call Tim at  $150/best. Call before 9pm 287•  Good luck on your math test  
nities.  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  from campus.  4-4853  7167  Venessa. Hope you get enough  
800-484-4699 code 0019  243·0658.  616-663-6308.  sleep.  


Thursday, September 16, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Erstad sends Royals to fourth-straight loss 
Associated l'rcss 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. 

Darin Erstad honrnred in Urn ninth inning, leading Chuck Finlny and the Anaheim Angds ovnr t.lui hard-luck Kansas City Hoyals 1-0 Wed,rnsday night. 
For llw fourth straight ganw, tlrn Boyals lost in the last inning. 
Finl(iy 110-1 1) limited Kansas City lo two singl!\S l'or eight innings and strlll'.k out night. Troy l'nrdva! gavn up onn hit in the ninth !'or his :10th save. 
H1~linver Lance Carter (0-1) mad!i his m,~jor lnague debut iu tho ninth, rntiring Bon Molina hPforn giving up tho solo shot to Erstad. 
Kansas City startnr Blake Shdn matchncl Finley for eight innings, giving up six hits and striking out six. 
On Tunsday, tho Hoyals lost a doubhilwadnr to Anaheim, giv­ing up the go-ahead in the ninth inning in both ganH\S. On Monday, tlrn Hoyals lost in lO innings to Tnxas. 
The Angt\ls got a runnor in (1v11ry inning. but stranded 10 against :-itui11. IIP nscapnd from two-on, two-out jams in tlw sec­oml and nighth. 
Hoyals cnntnr fielder savod two runs in thri seventh. With two outs and a nmner on first. lfollran racnd back to the wall to catd1 Jim Edmonds' drivn. 
Tlw Boyals' best chance came in llrn fourth, but they ran tlwrmmlv11s out of a threat· 
Finl11y walked the bases load1id with orrn out. Bookie Mark Quinn, who had gottnn four straight hits, flied out to ldt and Bnltran was douhlnd off SllCOncl. 
Finley cruised through the lirsl thr111• innings, surrenchwing only a two-out single to Quinn in the second. After the shaky fourth. he settled in again, retir­ing the next seven before Mike Sweeney singlnd in the seventh. 
White Sox 3, Tigers 1 
James Baldwin and Keith Foulke combined on a three-hit­t11r to lnad the Chicago White Sox ovnr Urn Detroit Tigers. 
Baldwin 110-12) held the Tignrs hilless until lleivi Cruz singled with onr, out in the sixth inning. 
Baldwin allowed three hits in 7 2-:1 innings, and won for the sixtl1 time in seven docisions. I le struck oul six and did not walk a batter. rotiring 11 in a row in tlw early innings. 
Brian Simmons hit an !WI sin­glo for the Whitn Sox, who won l'or only tho fourth time in the last 20 games. 
Bidding for his first earner shutout. Baldwin gave up a two­out home run to Gabe Kapler in the eighth. Kapler's drive hit the top nf' the lef't•Cllntnr field wall and bounced over. 
Cruz followed wilh a single and Baldwin was lifted after throwing 11 (1 pitches. Foulke pitched I 1-3 innings for his nighth savn. 
Brian Moehler (9-15) gave up throe runs and 10 hits in snvr,n innings. 
Carlos Lee and Chris Singltiton each singled in the White Sox sr,cond. Paul Konerko hit a ground ball to first base­man Tony Clark, who threw to Cruz covering at second. 
But thn shortstop bobbled thn ball. and a run scored on Cruz's (!rror. Singleton scored on Simmons' single. 
Mikn Caruso's grounder drove in Korwrko in the fourth for a 3­0 l1~ad. 
Yankees 6, Blue Jays 4 
Bernie Williams hit a go­ahcad, two-run homer in the sixth inning as the New York Yankees rallied for the second straight night, beating the Toronto Blue Jays. 
The Yankees, who began the day with a 3 1/2 game lead over Boston in the AL East, won their second straight after losing four in a row. New York heads to C.leveland /'or a four-game series with tho AL Central-lead­ing Indians. 
Williams, who had one homer in 26 games before hitting a game-tying grand slam in the eighth inhing Tur,sday, broke a 4-4 tie in the sixth with his 24th horner. Williams' slam Tllf~sday helpnd the Yankees score nine runs in the final two innings to win 10-6. 
Andy Pettitte (13-11) allowed fom runs and eight hits in eight innings to improve to 3-0 against Toronto this season. Mariano Hivera pitched the ninth for his 41st save. 
Hivera walked Bush leading off the ninth, the second time in his last three games he walked his lirst batter. llivera had gone 81 appearances since July 9, 1998, without walking his first batter. 
Hivera hasn't allowed a run in his last 20 appr,arances, a span 01'221-3 innings. 
The Blue Jays took a 4-1 lead in the fourth on Carlos Delgado's 44th homer, .Josn Cruz's IlBI double and a two­run double by Homer Bush. 
The Yankees tied it in the fifth against Pat Hcntgen (10-11 l on Tino Martinez solo homer, his 25th, Hickey Ledee's HBI triple, and Joe Girardi's run-scoring single llllder the glove of short­stop Tony Batista. 
llentgen gave up six runs ­

1Joes your 
resume need some 
help? 
WSND -88.9 FM now has both paid and volunteer positions available in the following departn1ents: 
Announcing 
Business 
Promotions 
Students, faculty and staff are encouraged to apply 
Call Rick 4-1670 or Joe 1-4069 for more info. 

live earned -and seven hits in 5 2-3 innings. 
Tony Ferandez's throwing error in the first led to New York's first run. After Dernk Jeter reached second on the error, Paul O'Neill hit an RBI single. 
Devil Rays 8, Mariners 4 

Herbert Perry hit a tiebreak­ing solo home run in the sev­enth inning and the Tampa Bay Devil Hays snapped a live-game losing streak with an win over the Seattle Mariners. 
Perry has four homers in his last 13 games after being acti­vated from the 15-day disabled list. He added an HBI groundnut in the eighth. 
The Devil Hays, at 63-83, matched their victory total J'rorn last year's expansion season. 
Ken Griffey Jr. and Alex Rodriguez both made an error for the Mariners. The duo also went 0-for-8 with three strike­outs as Seattle lost for the eighth time in 10 games. 
Albie Lopez (3-2) worked a scoreless 1 1-3 innings. 
Frankie Rodriguez (2-4) allowed Perry's sixth homer and a run-scoring double by Terrell Lowery in the Slwenth. 
Seattle tied the game at 3-all and chased Wilson Alvarez dur­ing a two-run seventh inning. Jay Buhner led off the inning with a solo homer and David Bell added a two-out HBl dou­ble, 
Alvarez allowed two earned runs and seven hits in 6 2-3 innings. Mariners starter Ken Cloude gave up t.wo earned and six hits in 3 1-3 innings. 
Cloude replacPd Paul Abbott, who missed his scheduled start because of a groin injury. Seattle starters had pitched into the sixth inning in 15 consecu­tive starts. 
David Lamb, making just his third appearance since Aug. 13, had a run-scoring single in the fourth that put Tampa Bay 3-1. Another run scored in the sec­ond when Lamb hit into a dou­ble play with the bases loaded. 
Dave Martinez, who went 3­for-5, had RBI singles in the first and eighth innings to extend his career-high HBI total to 57, but has just 11 since July 4. 
Canseco stays in Tampa 
Associated Press 
ST. PETEHSBUHG, Fla. 

.lose Canseco will rnmain with the Tampa Bay Devil Hays rrnxt yoar, and resume his chase for 500 home runs. 
The Devil Bays on Wednesday picked up a $:3 million option on his con­tract for the 2000 season. 
"When I'm in lhn lineup 1 think the numbers speak for themselv1is," the 35-­year-uld slugg·er said beforo facing the Seattle Mariners at Tropicana Field. "llopef'ully I can stay healthy, hit 50 or 60 home runs and help the team win." 
Canseco was having one of his better seasons before he was sidelined for six weeks after back surgery to repair a herniated disc. 
lie was leading the AL with 31 homers and had been selected as the league's starting designat­ed hitter for the All-Star game when the injury knocked him out of the lineup from .July 10 to Aug. 20. 
Doctors originally pro­jected Cansr.co would not 
-

return before Sept. 1, bul his rehabilitaiion went bet­ter than expected. Devil Bays general manager Chuck LaMar citud the speedy recovery as one of' the factors in the decision to bring him back for 2000. 
"Jose has been every­thing we thought he would be and more. Before the back surger·y. he was headed for one of his best offensive seasons (Wer," LaMar said. 
"lie worked extrnmely hard to come back from the injury as quickly as he did, and in the process was a very positive influence on all or our players." 

Discover Financial Services, Inc. a business unit of Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co., operates all Discover Brands with more than 46 million cardmembers and the Discover"/Novus Network•. The network is the larges! independent credit card network in the United Stales with more than 3 million merchant and cash access locations. We are currenlly seeking individuals with experience in any of the following areas: 
COBOL ¦ CICS ¦ VSAM ¦ DB/2 ¦ JCL C ¦ C++ ¦ JAVA ¦ ORACLE • UNIX ASSEMBLER ¦ WINDOWS 95/NT ¦ OOP PU't ¦ DATA WAREHOUSING ¦ OV2 
Please join us at the: DISC.VER 
I 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE NAME 1oau on• ia;o uj
INDUSTRY DAY 
J 1, Mttl 

FITZPATRICI< HALL 
Wednesday, September ZZnd IO:00am-4:00pm 


We offer a wide array of workp!ace amenities including excellent salanes and benefits, 401 K. profit sharing, tuition reimbursement, fitness center and a casual dress environment. If unab,e to attend, please send your scanable resume to: 
Discover Financial Services, Inc. Human Resources, IT Recruiter 2500 Lake Cook Road • Riverwoods, IL 60015 Fax: (847) 405-1388 
Visit our Web Site al: 
www.novusnet.com 
EOE MIFION
!Will 
C o -·w 
. -----...... 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 16, 1999 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

Schott sells Reds to partners for $67 million 
Associated Press 
COOPERSTOWN, N.Y. 
Marge Schott's rocky 15­year reign as owner of the Cincinnati Reds ended Wednesdav when baseball approved the $67 million sale of the team to her limited partners. 
On a day of big change, own­ers also voted to merge the administrative operations of the American and National leagues, and put off the sales of tho Kansas City Royals and Oakland Athlelics, citing the uncertain futures of baseball's small-market teams. 
They unanimously approved

--
the sale of a controlling inter­est in the Reds from Schott, who repeatedly has infuriated baseball with inflammatory statements about minorities and women, to Carl Lindner, who owns the Great American Insurance Co. The deal, in which %.7 per­cent of the Reds' shares change hands, values the fran­ch isc at $181.8 million. George Strike and William Reik, two of the Reds' current limited partners, are helping fund Lindner's bid. Schott couldn't be reached for comment and Lindner, who attended the meeting, referred comment to John Allen, the team's managing executive, since Schott agreed in June 1996 to give up day-to-day control of the team. "It's the end of a historic chapter in our organization," Allen said. "It's the start of the next chapter." Owners also unanimously approved a resolution calling 
on their lawyers to redraft the Major League Agreement. which governs baseball, to merge the AL and NL in all areas but on the field, where the leagues and divisions will remain unchanged for now, 
NL president Len Coleman, concluding his job had become irrelevant, announced his res­ignation effective at the end of the World Series and will become a senior adviser to commissioner Bud Selig. 
''The role of league president has become like a Studebaker -a good ride while it lasted," Coleman said. 
AL president Gene Budig, who did not attend Selig's news conference. was offered the job of senior vice president under Selig in charge of f'du­cational and governm11nt affairs. There was no word if he would accept it. 
"Baseball took a very histori­cal step today that it had to do," Selig said. 
Since the NL began in 1876 and the AL in l 900, each league ran it:; own affairs. But the commissioner's office, founded in 1920, has taken an increasing active role, espe­cially since 1984, when Peter Ueberroth had the leagues move into the same building. Interleague play, which began in 1997, provided further impetus. 
Under the change, umpires, scheduling and player disci­pline will switch to the com­missioner's office, subject to collective bargaining with players and umpires. 
"Frankly, the system was an anachronism," Selig said. 
The owners voted 28-2 to table the $122.4 million sale of the A's to a group headed by 
The new young adult Hip-Hop "dan~etft' irover,Yqur oft-campus alternativefpr~ft1,111saJJ. entertaiqment. Great junk food, non:-a1c§hpl\9 ;';! beverages, frozen drinks, pool, darts anti ofni?0s games. 
Yes -You can party and have fun withoutbo6zef¥? Try it before you knock it. 
Open every Wednesday -Saturday from 6 until close. 
Hear the best in Hip-Hop, Retro, House, R&B.: · Line music, Old School, Disco, and Rock an Roll. 
.,.:.: ~-:~'.:".:J:·.: 
Learn the latest and hippest dance moves fr~m ,®i;;,,some of the hottest DJ's in the midwest,at;~~iid!y and Saturday night weekly danc~:~, 
}~:;;~"l'l mic on Wed. and Thursdays; Sh~ 
:>~~i/' . talent and bring a friend. ._. "'°'· }.'.9~()\<lngs available for bands, DJ'st'«<i' dancers and other entertainers. Call · 
~,., 
,more information: ,~, 
. «!;'.m 
f;ree-off mpusn,e ·­,,,~;r,;~~1il~~t1on$:" ·· 
¥t\.::~_:i,."~:.}\i:·.·~ 
Save Mart Foods chairman Bob Piccinini, and 29-1 to table the $ 7 5 million sale of the Royals to a group headed by Miles Prentice. 
Only Oakland and the Chicago Cubs voted _against the motion to table to the A's sale. The Hoyals were the only vote against tabling their deal. 
Picdnini's agreement to buy the team from Steve Schott and Ken Hofmann expires if it doesn't close by Monday, and his group seemed stunned. 
"As far as I'm concerned, we're out of it," Piccinini said. "Unless the present owners put an extension on it, we're dead meat." 
Prentice, a New York investor. agreed last Nov. 13 to buy the Royals for from a trust that acquired the fran­chise following the death of founder Ewing Kauffman in 1993_ Since spring, manage­ment officials have said they were concerned his bid had too many people and not enough money. 

"I was hopeful WA would be approved," Prentice said. "We were not rejected. They did not turn ns down. That's the important thing." 
Selig said no action would be taken on the A's and Royals until after the owners' eco­nomic study committee, appointed last January, makes it report. He said the sales weren't approved because he wasn't convinced the deals would ensure the survival of the franchises in t!rnir· cities for "a couple of generations." 
However, baseball's econom­ics are unlikely to change until after the 2001 season at the earliest, whPn the sport's labor agrecmenL with players probably will expire. The eco­nomic study committee does nut include the players' asso­ciation, which is expActed to reject its findings. 
The proposed sale of the Montreal Expos from Claude Brochu's group to a group headed by New York art deal­er Jeffrey Loria also wasn't 
~CIITIIEIIEAND HANG ON DOORKNOB 
I I I I I I 

considered. The team and the commissioner's office agreed Friday not to put it to a vote. 
Montreal's situation is tied to a new ballpark. Government officials have promised to back $67 million in bonds with $5.3 million in annual revenue from a tourism fund. but baseball says th,1 financing must be completed before it will approve a sale. 
"Everything has to be signed, sealed and delivered," Brochu said. 
While a group in northern Virginia has been interested in buying the Expos, Selig has said his lirst choice is to keep the team in Montreal. 
"This saga is looking like 'Gone with the Wind.· ex~ept we don't have Scarlett O'Hara or Rhett Butler to play in it," Selig said. 
Owners originally intended to meet for two days but cut it short, concerned about getting home with Hurricane Floyd heading north. 
I I 
'I I I I 

Dear _____ the grouch, 
There's something you should know. In the morning, you are unbelievably grumpy. And that's putting it very, very nicely. 
So, because I like you, may I suggest you start the day with a CROISSAN'WIClf' from BURGER KING: It's filled with mouthwatering sausage, egg and cheese. And that should make anyone less cranky. Even you. If it doesn't, then we're on to Plan B. And you don'twant to know Plan B. 
Sincerely, ______ 


THE DELICIOUS CROISSAN'WICH.e 
The Huddle -ufortune Student Cent..­
~ 
'(CS 

It just tastes better.· 
~------~-----------~------------------------------­
www.burgerking.com LIMITED TIME ONLY. PRICE AND PARTICIPATION MAY VARY DURING BREAKFAST HOURS ONLY. C1ffi81.RKRKNlCORPOOATlON IIUflGE1I KING lml'OAATOI LSM~LICENSEE Cf M ""IT JlJSTTASTESllfrTl:lr TRAWMll<N>J 1l'f llEGtSTl'REllllUAiER Klt«i. CIIQISSNlwr;H ~tl!MIW.lltS LIXiO TIWlO,Wll(S 
____ ,--_______________________ _ 


-I 
I 
I 
Thursday Septemher 16, I 999 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 
Calendar of Events 
Freshman Retreat #24 (Sept. 24-25) Sign Up 
Continuing until September 20, 103 Hesburgh library, 112 Badin Hall. Targeted Dorms: Badin, Keenan, Lewis, O'Neill Family, Pasquerilla East, St. Edward's, Morrissey, Walsh, and Zahm. 
Information Session for Holy Cross Mission In Coachella, California on January 3-10, 2000 
Thursday, September 16, 7:30-8:00 pm Coffee House-Center for Social Concerns 
RCIA-lnformatlon Session for Sponsors 
Sunday, September 19, 1:00pm Notre Dame Room-LaFortune 
Emmaus Kick-Off 
Monday, September 20, 6:00-7:30 pm LaFortune Ballroom 
Campus Blble Study 
Tuesday, September 21, 7:0Q pm Badin Hall Chapel 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer
j' 

Wednesday, September 22, '10:00 pm Walsh Hall Chapel 
Graduate Student Bible Study Group 
Wednesday, September 22, 8:00 pm Wilson Commons 
Twenty-fifth Sunday in Ordinary Time 
Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Basilica Saturday, September 18 Mass 
30 min. after the game Rev. Randall C. Rentner, C.S.C. 
Sunday, September 19 Mass 
8:00 a.m. 
Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C. 
10:00 a.m. Rev. E. William Beauchamp, C.S.C. 
11:45 a.m. Rev. Peter D. Rocca, C.S.C. 
Vespers 
Sunday, September 19 
7:15 p.m. Rev. Gary S. Chamberland, C.S.C. 
STEPAN CENTER 
Saturday, September 18 Mass 
45 min. after the game Rev. Thomas P. Doyle, C. s.C. 
Scripture Readings 
1st Reading Isaiah 55:6-9 2nd Reading Philippians 1:20-24, 27 Gospel Matthew 20:1-16 
LIFE'S TOO SHORT NOT TO 
Jim Lies, C.S.C. 

Our lives are filled with all kinds of opportunties, some that 
we're aware of and about which we make good decisions. There are 
other opportunities that get away from us because we either didn't have 
enough information to make a good decision or we weren't even aware 
of the pivotal nature of the moment when it arrived, and it passed us by. 
More than at any other time in our lives, these college years are filled • 
with opportunities to make choices and meet people that will deeply 
affect the persons that we will ultimately become. There is nothing sad­
der than to hear from a recent graduate: "If only I had..." This article is 
for you, that you might avoid the "If only"s beyond this place. 

I think that we can all agree that the most important thing about 
life is relationships, relationships with our families, our friends, and 
most importantly with our God. The best of them can overcome the 
dreariest weather, and the worst of them can dampen even the sunniest 
day. It occurs to me that, in many ways, we come to know ourselves a 
good deal better when we interact with others in our world, and we 
come to know God and the stirrings of the Spirit in our lives when we 
take the time to attempt to articulate how we've experienced God in the 
circumstances of our lives. But oddly enough, as true as that may be, we 
don't often take that time. How often do we stop to consider how God 
has been present to us in our day? And how might we better be about 
the business of that reflection? 
Many students within the Notre Dame community have 

expressed the need for a place where young women and men can come 
together to share their journey of faith, to gather socially, and to reflect 
on the things that matter in their lives. The Office of Campus Ministry 
has a program called "Emmaus" that attempts to facilitate just such 
gatherings. Emmaus is a program which intends to bring together stu­
dents who want to enter into dialogue with others about faith and rela­
tionships, about God and about life. Like the travelers on the road to 
Emmaus who recognized Jesus in the stranger, we want the same for 
you. We want all who would join us to know the same joy and hope 
that those original travelers experienced in meeting Jesus along the road. 
Our having been at Notre Dame won't mean much if we don't 
walk away from this place at the end of our tenure here with some sig­
nificant relationships. And we believe that none of those relationships 
will amount to much on the long term if they are not rooted in the one 
and essential relationship with Jesus Christ. It is that which we should 
be about in these days. The danger, especially among the upper class 
students, is that we assume that we've met everyone we're going to 
meet here; that somehow, all the friendships that will mean anything to 
us on the long term have already been formed. You need only ask 

someone who has spent a semester overseas to know that an experience 
like that can seriously shake up your friendships. And still further, there 
are countless Notre Dame graduates who met their spouses in their last 
semester here. But it means taking some chances, and it means making 
friendship a priority among those many things that compete for your 
time. 

Emmaus isn't the only way to get at this important task, but it is 
one of the ways. We would welcome any and all who are interested in 
gathering with others to share faith and Scripture to join Emmaus. 

There is an ongoing enrollment through the Badin Office of Campus 
Ministry, but the sooner you sign up, the sooner you'll be placed with 
five to seven others in a group. You also have the option of signing up 
as a group if you wish to deepen your relationships with already exist­
ing groups of friends, such as those with whom you spent time over­
seas, or those with whom you live in your section, etc. 

This is no small matter. Our very happiness in life is wrapped up 
in our efforts to deepen in faith and in relationships. I know what 

you're thinking... "Hey, that's something I could get into... but I'm too 'busy just now." The next logical question is to ask yourself: "When 
won't you be busy?" It would be a great shame if throughout our lives 
we were just too busy to be about that which could have made us most 
happy. Know that Campus Ministry wants to help in any way it can to 
get at the most important questions of life. Please contact our offices to 
find out more about all that we do. And if you're interested in joining 
an Emmaus group, there will be a Emmaus Kick-Off, on Monday, 

September 20, 1999, in the Lafortune Ballroom from 6-7p.m. It will be 
an evening gathering for all who have been or wish to be a part of 
Emmaus. 
... 
-
I¦
(Z\MPUSMINISTRY 

,­
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 16, 1999 
NFL 
Young blasts 'Niners 
for lack of emotion 
regular-season loss since 1980, 
Associated Press 
and he vowed to get better. 
But he also said the team SANTA CLARA. Calif. faces an uphill battle unless it Steve Young took his team to gets additional production task Wednesday. from newcomers. San 
The San Francisco 49ers Francisco's rookie crop has quarterback challenged team­been particularly disappoint­mates to play with more feel­ing. ing. And in a direct jab at non­The 49ers made defensive contributing rookies, Young tackle Reggie McGrew their said the club has to start get­first-round pick and defensive ting more help from its end Chike Okeafor was their younger players. next selection, in the third 
"We came off of the presea­round. General manager Bill son and I don't think we Walsh said he expected both to played with the passion we contribute this season. need to play with," Young said But McGrew and Okeafor Wednesday as the team began missed virtually all of training preparations to play New camp with injuries -Okeafor Orleans on Sunday. hurt his back playing basket­
"There's got to be a battle, a ball and McGrew had a knee passion for football." said condition -and have done Young, who struggled along next to nothing on the field. 
with the rest of the 49ers in a Indeed, San Francisco has season-opening 41-~ loss at hardly gotten any help from Jacksonville. the draft in the last three 
'Tm not sure whether it was years. Quarterback. Jim the lethargic start or the Druckenmiller. a first-round weather but the passion to pick in 1997. was a bust and 
play football week in, week out shipped off to Miami in a pre­needs to be with us throughout season trade and the jury is the season, starting Sunday. I out on cornerback R.W. look at that as a major factor." McQuarters. a first-rounder in 
Coach Steve Mariucci said he 1998 who has yet to crack the didn't agree with Young at all. starting lineup. 
"I didn't see it that way," "Right now, we can't have Mariucci said. "l thought we enough young impact players," were ready to play and I Young said. "We need young thought we were playing hard. players to make an impact. We weren't necessarily playing There's not a question about well. especially on offense, but that. The rest of us, we've 
we certainly were playing always been able to carry the hard. So I don't know what load and we'll continue to just he's talking about." carry it." 
Young acknowledged that he Young said it has been tough played as poorly as anyone in dealing with the lopsided loss Sunday's debacle at but that the team now had to Jacksonville, the 49ers' worst look forward to New Orleans. 
Bed 'N Breakfast Registry
* SOUTH BEND's PREMIER REGISTRY SINCE 1983 * 

... A Registry ofPrivate Homes Serving Parents and Friends ofNotre Dame I Saint M ary·s College on Special Events Weekends 
Try the OPTION 
Enjoy a "Home Away from Home" 
• 
Attractive and Approved Homes 

• 
South Bend Metropolitan Area 



• Committed Hosts -• Gracious llospitality 
Perfect for: 
GRADlJATION, FOOTBALL, JPW, FRESHMAN ORIE:\TATION, RElJNIONS 
Wilma L. Behnke (219) 291-7153 
Planning to Studv Abroad? 
sncuse has vour acket! 
ENGLAND *FRANCE 
HONGKONG * SPAIN 
ITALY * ZIMBABWE 
SYRACUSE 
STUDY ABROAD 

119 Buclld Ave/Boa D S7racuH, ll'Y 13~44 800 :.1135 347:.11 aualtroad@ayr.aclu bttp://aumwc111.a,-r,cd11/dlpa 

10 Things You Need To Know About EMMAUS Emmaus is ... 
I 0. the opportunity for students to gather in small faith sharing communities. 
9. meeting with friends on a weekly basis to share what is most important in our lives. 
8. ~ chance to take a more in depth look at Scripture, social justice issues and other faith based topics. 
7. connecting with other people from all over campus. 
6. open to students of all faith backgrounds. 
5. quality time between you and God. 

4. challenging and nurturing your own faith journey. 
3. prayer, community and friendship. 

2. one of the best things at Notre Dame. 
1. WAITING FOR YOU! 


EMMAUS 
liu,i\uM1i\Mi'lltffiifiMl'lkilti·H,,\olfii®N 
Please contact Tami Schmitz or Clare Sullivan at 631-5242 or stop by the Campus Ministry Office in Badin Hall with any questions. 
s ecial Appearance 
Meet author 
Father Edward 
Malloy, C.S.C. 
Friday 
Sept. 17th 
4:00 -6:00 pm 
in the Bookstore 



HAMMES 
will sign copies of his latest 
book, Monk's Reflections. 

NOTRE DAME 
Proceeds from this event will 

BOOKSTORE
benefit the Girls & Boys Club of 

IN THE ECK CENTER
St. Joseph County. 

pboat: 631-6316 • www.adboobtort.com 
Please Recycle 
The Observer 
Thursday, September 21, I999 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMNT page 21 
.. 

stuclent union 
HAPPENINii§ 
Every Thursday. a list of campus-wide events will appear in the Observer. This space is brought to you by the Student Union Executive Cabinet in an effort to keep ~ou in the know. Use this as your resource for all carnpus happenings. 
STUDENT UNION BOARD l'IIWW.nd.edul~sub 
Movie of the Week: Entrapment. 

9/16. Thursday. Cushing Auditorium. 1030PM. Admission: $2 at the door. 9/17. Friday. Cushing Auditorium. 0800PM & 1030PM. 9/18. Saturday. Cushing Auditorium. 0800PM & 1030PM. 
Acousticafe. 9/16. Thursday. Lafortune Huddle. 0900PM-1200AM. See www.nd.edu/-sub for this week's performers. 
CLA!!i!!i OF i!DOD 
Concession Stand. 9/18. Saturday. On the Quad. Before the game. 
CLA!i!i OF i!DDi! 
Car Wash. 

9/19. Sunday. Alumni Senior Club. 1 O00AM-0300PM. Donations will be accepted to support the Miranda Thomas Memorial Scholarship Fund. 
CAMPU!i WIDE 

Ted Koppel: "Red Smith Lecture in Journalism." 9/16. Thursday. Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 0800PM. Free & open to the public. Discussion period to follow. Trident Naval Society 24-Hour Run. 9/17. Friday. Throughout campus. 

-
-
-
r 

---------------·--­
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 16, 1999 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 

Cincinnati beats Chicago, stays within reach of N.Y. 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI 
Sammy Sosa remained stuck at 59 homers for the fifth straight game, but Greg Vaughn extend­ed his late-season home run tear as the Cincinnati Reds beat the Chicago Cubs 5-4 Wednesday night. 
The Reds remained 2 1/2 behind New York for the wild card after the Mets beat Colorado 10-5. Cincinnati opened the day four behind NL Central-leading Houston, which played Philadelphia in a later game. 
Sosa, trying to become the first player to reach 60 homers a sec­

-ond time, went 2-for-4 and got an intentional walk that was loudly booed by a small crowd on hand hoping to see history. Sosa, who hit 66 homers last season and fini•rhed second to Mark McGwire's 70, has not hit one in a span of 22 at-bats. H's his longest power slump since a five-game span from Aug. 5-8. While Sosa disappointed the crowd, Vaughn pleased it with an RBI single as part of a four­run first inning and a solo homer off Jon Lieber (8-10) that made it 5-2 in the fifth. Denny Neagle (7-5) won his fourth consecutive start, giving up two runs in six innings. Brett Tomko gave up Shane Andrews' solo homer, his first for the Cubs, that cut it to 5-3 in the eighth. -Danny Graves pitched the ninth for his 24th save. allowing an RBI single to Sosa. Vaughn has been a key figure in the Reds' late surge, hitting 10 homers in his last 46 at-bats while driving in 22 runs. He has 39 homers this, season, nine against Chicago. Earlier in the day, Marge Schott's rocky 15-year reign as owner of the Cincinnati Reds ended when baseball approved the $67 million sale of the team to her limited partners. The Reds strung together five consecutive hits in the first inning for a 4-0 lead. Vaughn singled home the first run, Eddie Taubensee had a two-run triple and Aaron Boone doubled. Glenallen Hill homered off Neagle leading off the fourth, leaving him 11-for-28 career against the left-hander with six homers. Sosa singled in the second, popped out in the fourth and was intentionally walked in the fifth, a move that was unpopular with the 21,794 fans and showed how much the Reds feared him. Mark Grace's sacrifice fly cut it to 4-2 and left Bo Porter on sec­.. ond \vith one out. Reds manager Jack McKeon chose to walk Sosa, which meant that Hill rep­resented the go-alrnad run when 
-
he came to bat with those impressive stats against Neagle. The left-hander prevented any second-guessing by pitching out of the threat. 
Cubs manager Jim Riggleman and hitting coach Jeff Pentland were ejected in the second inning by home plate umpire Brian Gorman, who ruled that Lieber went around for the strikeout that. ended the inning with the bases loaded. 
Mets 10, Rockies 5 
lJarryl Hamilton's run-scoring triple broke a tie game in the eighth inning 
as the New York Mets contin­ued their playofT push with a vic­tory over the Colorado Rockies. 
The Mets. who have won nine of their last 12 games, began the day two games behind the Atlanta Braves in the NL East and 2 1/2 games ahead of the Cincinnati Reds in the wild-card race. 
Hamilton, traded from Colorado to New York at the July 31 trading deadline, had been O­for-6 in the series before hitting a sinking line drive into right­center field off reliever Jerry Dipoto (4-5). . 
Right fielder Larry Walker's dive came up short, and the ball rolled 50 feet to the wall, allow­ing Robin Ventura to score easily from first. 
Hamilton, who added an RBI single in a· three-run ninth inning, scored on Benny Agbayani's sacrifice fly. 
Mets reliever John Franco gave up two singles and a walk to load the bases in the Colorado eighth, but Armando Benitez came in and retired Dante Bichette on an easy ground ball to short. Benitez finished for 'his 21st save. 
Agbayani hit a two-run homer -his first since June 25 -to give the Mets a 5-4 lead in the sixth, but the Rockies tied it in the seventh. 
Kurt Abbott led off the inning with a double that grazed the left-field foul line. Mets manager Bobby Valentine came out to argue after shortstop Rey Ordonez insisted there was no white paint on the ball. 
Replays showed that third­base umpire Tony Randazzo made the correct call, and the Rockies tied the game on Vinny Castilla's two-out single off Turk Wendell (5-4). 
New York starter Orel Hershiser gave up four runs and six hits in six innings. He strug­gled early, walking four, but worked out of a bases-loaded jam in the second and retired the final seven hitters he faced. 
Brewers 10, Cardinals 8 
Jose Valentin led off the 12th 
Campus View Apartments 
• 
Re1node-lecl Luxury Suites • •",u•nished, ConVNlient & Affot·cluble 

• 
Sttulent.. Lense ''fet"PlS 

• 
Walk to ND & Shoi~s 


Call for Details! 272-1441 www.rent.net/direct/campusview 
inning with a home run Wednesday night to help the Milwaukee Brewers beat the St. Louis Cardinals 10-8. 
Valentin, a late-inning replace­ment, hit his 10th homer of the season off Juan Acevedo (5-8). After a walk to Marquis Grissom, Mark Loretta doubled home another run. 
The teams combined to use 14 pitchers -seven each. The Cardinals usBd 22 players, the Brewers 20. 
Hookie Hector Ramirez (1-1} pitched three innings for his first career win. 
The Cardinals built 6-1 lead and still led 6-3 in the eighth, as starter Kent Bottenfield seemed headed for his 18th win. 
But the Brewers scored four in the eighth off Lance Painter. Alex Ochoa tripled and scored on a single by Brian Banks. Valentin singled and after a sacrifice bunt, Mark Loretta singled to tic the game. 
With two outs, Jeromy Burnitz walked. After the count went to 2-2 on Kevin Barker. Painter left with a cramp in his left calf. Barker grounded the first pitch from Heathcliff Slocumb for a tiebreaking single. 
The Cardinals tied it in their ninth on 3<n RBI single by Craig Paquette, who has 37 RBIs in 38 games since being traded to St. Louis from the New York Mets on July 31. 
Milwaukee retook the lead in the 10th when Marquis Grissom walked, was sacrificed to second, moved to third on a deep fly, and scored on a wild pitch from Ricky Bottalico. 
St. Louis tied it again on an RBI single by Alberto Castillo. 
The Cardinals scored three in the first, including solo homers by Edgar Renteria and Fernando Tatis, his 28th, off Bill Pulsipher. 

Eduardo Perez scornd the other run on a single, a wild pitch and error on the throw, and another wild pitch. 
Giants 4, Marlins 3 

Jeff Kent and J.T. Snow hit solo homers and Russ Ortiz got his 17th win as the San Francisco Giants, who have won 21 of 28, defeated the Florida Marlins. 
Kent led off the fourth with a homer and Snow homered lead­ing ofl' the sixth. Doug Mirabelli added an RBI single and Bill Mueller had a sacrifice fly for the Giants, who have won 11 of their last 13 home games. 
Ortiz (17-9) allowed three runs on five hits in seven innings. Robb Nen pitched the ninth for his 34th save in 43 opportunities this season. 
Cliff Fioyd hit a two-run homer in the fourth for the Marlins. who have lost eight straight road games. Ramon Castro added a solo homer in the seventh. 
Dennis Springer (5-15} allowed four runs on nine hits in six innings for the Marlins. He is tied for second in the majors in losses -only Steve Trachsel of the Chicago Cubs has more, with 17. 
Kent and Snow each hit his 20th homer. Along with Barry Bonds (31) and Ellis Burks (28), the Giants have four players with 20 homers in a season for the first time since Willie McCovey (39). Willie Mays (28), Bobby Bonds (22) and Dick Dietz (22) accomplished that feat in 1970. 
Phillies 8, Astros 6 
The Philadelphia Phillies stopped their 11-game losing streak and ended Houston's team-record 12-game winning string, beating the Astros on Doug Glanville's career-high five hits. 
The Astros had their lead in the NL Central cut to three games by Cincinnati, which beat Chicago 5-4. 
The Phillies won hours after announcing ace Curt Schilling would not pitch again this sea­son because of shoulder prob­lems. Philadelphia won for only the second time in 20 games. 
Glanville opened the 10th with a single off Doug Henry (2-3) and stole second. After a one-out walk to Bobby Abreu. Mike Licberthal hit an RBI double and Rico Brogna added an RBI sin­gle. 
The A'itros scored twice in the ninth off Wayne Gomes (5-5) to tie it at 6. 
Ken Caminiti had an infield single that shortstop Desi Relaford threw away for a run, and Houston loaded the bases with no outs. Paul Bako ground­ed into a double play, scoring a run that made it 6-all. 
Billy Brewer got two outs for . his first save since 1994 with Kansas City. 
Glanville homered, doubled and singled three times to finish 5-for-6. Pinch-hitter Alex Arias hit a tying triple in the eighth off reliever Jay Powell and Glanville and Lieberthal added run-scor­ing singles to make it 6-4. 

As you see it, is our two-party political system working? Want Reform? Work for Reform! Then vote for Reform! Reform Party seeking college volunteers, concerned voters, contributions. candidates, and the creation of an ND on-campus organization. Your participation & support is vital for Reform to occur. 
For details contact: N.W. Indiana Coordinator. 219-926-7576 State Party Chairman, 219-267·3434 or email:. verp@waveone.net 
•  
~­ 
~  0 ~  
0  0  

ND'S WEDNESDAY MGm HANG OUT 


Thursday, September 16, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Phillies' Schilling out for season 
Associated Pres~ 
IIOUSTON 

Philadelphia ace Curt Schilling. scratched l'rom his schedulnd start Monday. will not pitch tlw rest or the sna­son bm:auim of' shouldm· trou­bln. 
"lle's benn lmllling should(ir problmns all ynar and wn just dncidnd to shut him down for tlw s1\aso11," l'hillins spok(isman (;enc Dias said Wndnesday. 
Schilling declined comment bel'orn Wednesday's night gamn against Houston. Th11 Phillies had lost 11 straight games. 
Schilling (I 5-6) leads the team in victories, complete games (8) and strikeouts (152). lie pitched 180 1-3 innings this year. 
I!is 3.54 EHA is the eighth­bnst in the lnague. Ile is sec­ond in the NL in complete ganrns behind Arizona's Handy .Johnson (11). 
Schilling last pitchml Sep.t. 8 against Houston at Philadelphia, allowing four runs and five hits in 5 1-3 innings. lie was scheduled tu start against the Astros on Monday. 
Grilled Burgers. Brats, and Other Specialties Cold Beverages & Spirits 60" Screen TV's Fully Enclosed Tent 
ext to the N.D. Bookstore. 
219-631-2000 
NBA 

Bird to ~tep down after season 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 
l.arry Bird said Wednesday he plans to step down as coach of tho Indiana Pacers at the end of the 1999-2000 season when his 
three-year contract expires. 
"Do nxpect Larry to coach after next sea­son? No," 

club presi-Bird dent Donnie Walsh said of Bird's statement. adding that he hasn't sat down with Bird since last season to discuss his future plans. 
Speaking during a news con­ference to promote his book, "Bird Watching: On Playing and Coaching the Game I Love," Bird confirmed he had no plans to coach past the upcoming sea­son. 
"I said that to Donnie when I came in. Three years is enough for a coach in any one place. After the three years I told him I'd probably be done," Bird said in a satellite interview from Naples, Pia., with Indianapolis television station WTHR. 
"It's been a great experience for me. It's not something I dreamed of doing," said Bird, named NBA coach of the year in his rookie season on the Jndiana bench when the Pacers reached the seventh game of the Eastern Conference playoffs before los­ing to eventual champion Chicago. 

'e~ts is as.follows: 
try-National Catholic nships day Race-3:30pm 
omen's Race-4:15pm 
'en's Race-5:00pm 
Saturday Women's Volleyball vs. Miami(OH) @7:00pm 
The Pacers l'ollowod up bv winning the Central Division championship last year, but -were upset in the Eastern Conference finals by the New 
York Knicks. 
"It's been an unbelievable 
experience for me. Now it's time 
to move on," Bird said. 
"The b()ttom line is I'd like to 
see him continue with the fran­
chise in some way," Walsh said. 
"I'm extremely pleased with 
everything he's done as a coach 
and if ne doesn't want to coach, 
then I'd love to have him with us 
in another role. 
"Larry and I have to sit down 
and discuss his desires. We 
haven't had any recent conver­
sation about his future and I've 
told him that I'd like to have one 
when he gets back in town." 
Bird is staying in his Florida home during the offseason and couldn't be reached for com­ment. 
:r this weeks Notre 

All Creatures Need }
{ 

To Communicate. 

SOME JUST DO IT BETTER THAN OTHERS 
Want to do more than bring home the bacon? A career at Tellabs allows you to experience success on a global scale. As a leader in the telecommunications industry, we create the hardware and software that keeps local phone service, long distance, cable and the internet moving forward. So, join Tellabs today and start a future worth squealing about. See us at the: 
INDUSTRY DAY -flT.ZPATRICK HALL 
SEPTEMBER 22ND, 1999 
EOE· M/F/ON 
TELLABS. A NEW BREED OF CAREERS 
-
• 
Deloi 
compen$at 
origin, age; 


Thursday, September 16, l 999 
The Observn· . PAID ADVERTISEMENT
page 24 

THE BEST MINDS. THE BEST OPPORTUNITIES. 

"THE BEST WAY TO GET THE MOST OUT OF A STAFF IS TO GIVE PEOPLE FULL RESPONSIBILITY." 1 
---Peter Lynch Fidelity Investments 
Career Opportunities in Equity Research at Fidelity Management & Research Company. 
In the world of money and markets, Equity Research opportunities at Fidelity are among the most desirable anywhere. Why? Because no one gives first-year Associates the responsibility and independence to make significant investment deci­sions like we do. We seek people who are highly motivated, take initiative, and work well under pressure. And whether your background is in English, Engineering, or Business, an avid interest and intellectual curiosity about the stock market is what we look for in all candidates. While you will enjoy a high degree of autonomy; you won't have to go it alone. Many of the brightest minds and best resources in the industry are in place to support you, along with instant access to the most powerful research capabilities available. So before you make a decision on your investment career, invest some time with us. Hear how a career at Fidelity in Boston riyals anything you could ever find on Wall Street. We'll be coming to your campus soon. 
MAKE THE RIGHT INVESTMENT IN YOUR FUTURE. 

INFORMATION SESSION: Equity Research Associates Universit): of Notre Dame Tuesday, September 21st, 6:00 p.m. Center for Continuing Education, Room 100 
If you are unable to attend, please forward your resume via Career Services or e-mail it to suzanne.connelly@fmr.com. For more information, please visit our Web site at www.fidelity.com/campus. 
• 

Fidelity Investments is committed to creating a diversified environment and proud to be an equal opponunity employer. 
Fidslily A,n,,,,.,,,,,,,,.. 
WE HELP YOU INVEST RESPONSIBLY"' 1Beating the Street, Peter Lynch. Simon&: Schuster© 1993. 

-
.. 
I 
f [ 
I 
I ! 
Thursday, September IG, 1999 
Soccer 
continued from page 28 
box..Junior forward Monica (;onzalnz lwadPd till' ball toward tlw ,mt but Butlnr goal­kPPpnr Tricia CzPrniak stop1wd 
it. 
CzPrniak did not calrh thn hall. hownv11r, and l"roshman 111idl"inld1ir' Na11cy Mikanrnir clcarw<f up llw loos1i ball and shot tlw hall into tlw goal for lwr lirst caninr goal. 
With 2h: I I rnmaining in Llw first half. ConzalPz made) a 
great move on the Bulldog dnfonder in tlrn hox to pass the ball to senior forward Jenny I !ell. In a dnsporatn attompt to slop Ilof't from firing point blank on the Czerniak. the dnfonder l'oulnd Ileft. 
Conzalez took the ensuing prnrnlly kirk and beat Czerniak to her right for a 2-0 Irish lead. 
Frnshman Yarrnssa Pruzinsky narnnd the l'irst point of her career in Lim sncond half wlwn s)w fod SlrPiffer 40 yards from llw Bulldog goal. Streiffor lmat two Bulldog defnndnrs lrnf'oro !'iring a blistering shot past Czerniak from :rn yards. 
I 
Introducing ... -_,..'~
cS~s 

-------------63 i-2020 
The Observer . SPORTS 

Liz Zanoni saw action for the first time since 1997 after recovering from an Injury that sidelined her all of 1998. 
page 25 

NFL 
Browns to start 
Couch 

Associated Pr~•• 
BEHEJ\, Ohio 

The No. 1 wnaring No. 2 will start at quarter­back in Wenk 2 for thn new Clevnland Browns. 
Tim Couch. s11 liicted with tlw No. 1 overall pick in tlrn NFL dral't to be tho Browns' quartnr­back ol' the futun•, will replace Ty Dntnrnr as tlrn starter Sunday wlrnn Cloveland, coming off an embarrassing oprining loss to Pittsburgh. travnls to Nashville to play the Tennessee Titans. 
"1 didn't know when this would happen, if' it would be this year or not," Couch said Wednesday. 'Tm grateful for tlrn opportunity. llopcfully, I'll go out and do what I'm capable of' doing, go out there and put some points up on the board." 

--
.... .... 
r r 
Where it matters most. 
As one of the world's leading diversified technology companies, we're breaking new ground in everything from defense and commercial electronics. to aviation, to engineering and construction. As a Raytheon employee, you'll contribute to the development of exciting, revolutionary technology designed to make life better, easier, and safer throughout the world. Such as our STARS air traffic control system. And our award-winning NightSighrr"' technology. 
But it all starts with you. Your creativity. Your knowledge. And enthusiasm about the future. In return, we offer exceptional training and professional development opportunities. A supportive, 
down-to-earth  work  environment.  And  incredible  benefits  including  flexible  sche~ules  
designed to respect your quality of life.  .,.  
So you can still show off all those great qualities of yours outside of work, too.  

We have a lot to tell you about Raytheon and the exciting opportunities we have available. Plan on visiting our booth at your college career fair. If you are unable to attend the fair, please e-mail your resume to: resume@rayjobs.com (ASCII text only; no attachments), or mail to: Raytheon Company, Attn: National Staffing Data Center, P.O. Box 660246, MS-201, Dallas, TX 75266. U.S. citizenship may be required. We are an equal opportunity employer. 
Opportunities are available for exceptional students with the following majors: 

• Aeronautical Engineering  • Computer Science  • Management  
• Chemical Engineering  • Electrical Engineering  • Marketing/Communications  
• Civil Engineering and  • Finance/Accounting  • Math  
Construction Management  • Human Resources  • Mechanical Engineering  
• Computer Engineering  • Industrial and Labor Relations  • Physics  

Check out our Website at www.rayjobs.com/campus for further information including a calendar of recruiting events. At Raytheon, we strive to be the employer of choice for a diverse workforce by attracting, retaining, and recognizing the most talented. resourceful and creative people. 


Bringing technology to the edge 

Raytheon 
-




page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 16, 1999 
No Blore forgiveness for Davie 
We watched the Navy receiver scampering down 

). 
the sidelines. We watched

t 
Allen Rossum knock him out 
of bounds. We won, so we 
forgave 
him. Brian Churney 
We 
watched 
Jarious On the Hot 
limp off of Corner 
the field 
against 
LSU. ending his season. But 
we won. so we forgave him. 
We watched as they ran to the line wondering why the referees weren't stopping the clock during the Michigan game. Wf'. blamed the refer­ees and forgave them. 
We watched as the lr.ish tried to revolutionize football 

-
by playing with what seemed 
like two entire units at the 
end of the half against 
Purdue. 13ut we were going to 
win that game. So we forgave 
them. 
We waited for our inevitablf'. celebration as Notre Dame lined up to punch in tlrn winning score. We waited so long that the clock rained on our parade, running out and not allowing us to score that winning touchdown. 
This time is different. This time we're nut so willing to forgive. 
Three halves in a row, the Notre Dame football team has run out of time. Our coach has nearly kissed away four games in three years because of his lack of time manage­ment. This is simply not acceptable. 
The duties of a head coach during games on football Saturdays are many. I-le must motivate the team. He must make personnel decisions. lie must make the crucial deci­sions throughout the game ­calling time-outs. going for it on fourth down and manag­ing the clock. 
He should, if he's a good coach. also call the plays dur­ing the final minutes of a close game. Ile must coordi­nate his coaching staff, mak­ing sure his game plan is enacted. He must be able to talk intelligently and analyti­cally to the press after the game. Finally, he must per­form the intangibles, doing anything elirn that may come up to ensure a dignified victo­ry for his team. 
Routinely, Bob Davie fails one or more orthese require­ments. But last Saturday, he managed to !"ail at all of the above. 
Consider his personnel

• 
decisions. Why continue to Jet Jim Sanson kick when other kickers exist? Maybe giving another kicker a shot in the game might result in a pleas­ant surprise What's the worst they can do, miss a kick'? 
Consider his motivational techniques. Is it a coincidence that we've had a problem scoring in tho second half ever since he arrived'? We know how motivational he sounds during pep rallies. Should we expect any differ­ent in the locker room'' 
Consider his crucial deci­sions. A. lot has been made over his clock management. But Davie's worst decision of the game was to punt the ball away with three minutes left on fourth-and-five. We hadn't stopped Purdue in three plays all game. If it weren't for Joe Tiller trying tO out-bad-coach Davie, we never would have 
gotten the ball back. We never would have prac­ticed our fake audibles. 
Ever since he's come to Notre Dame, we've given Bob Davie every chance in the world to succeed. We've hailed him as the next great Notre Dame coach. 
We've done his silly "Go Irish" cheer. We've scape­goated others for mistakes he's made (Can you say Jim Coletto?). We've even used a salute that l.ou earned for Davie before he rightfully earned it, thus cheapening Lou's legacy. 
We've even rewarded him with a contract extension despite a questionable suc­cess record. 
The fact remains, though. that Davie has brought little good to the Notre Dame pro­gram. His failings span way beyond back-to-back. humili­ating losses to USC and 1\1ichigan State. 
Davie has embarrassed Notre Dame in a trial. He has spat upon Notre Dame history by questioning the mental stability of a legend of our . past. He has inadvertently attempted to ruin our pep rallies by eliminating guest speakers and giving the same speech every week. 
He's even showed little class on thn sideline, often tossing down his water bottle rather than simply handing it back to the hard-working trainers. 
BOOK SEARCH 
• 
Used, rare and out-of-print . books 

• 
Initial cost of $2.0<1 

• 
Nationafly -circulated ad 

• 
Success rate of 50% 

• 
Time Required: 2 months 


ERASMUS BOOKS 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 4661 7 
(219) 232-8444 
PART-TIME SALES ASSOCIATE 
Hammes Notre Dame 
Bookstore Follett Higher Education Group, the leader in higher education services, is currently seeking a Part-time Sales Associate for our Notre Dame Bookstore. 
We are looking for an experi­enced customer service orient­ed Sales Associate/Cashier to work days, nights, and week­ends. We offer $6.50 per hour. Only enthusiastic, friendly peo­ple need apply. 
To find out more about salaryand benefits, please apply in 
person to: The Hammes Notre 
Dame Bookstore, University of Notre Dame, Bookstore Building, in Notre Dame. Visit 
us on the web: 
We students deserve more from our head football coach. Our alumni and fans deserve more from our football coach. Most of all. our players, who work their rear ends off every day preparing for games only to have them thrown away by inept. r.oar.hing, deserve bet­ter from our football coach. 
So Coach Davie, if you do in fact believe this is the best student body in the country -as you say every pep rally -then choose one of the fol­lowing two options. 
Amend your ways and restore Notre Dame to its righlful place on top of the college football world. Or let the clock run out one more time. 
Only this time. let it run out on your career at Notre Oame. 
The views ofthis qolumn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


T 
• • • • •.,....
D M
afa 1n1ne ,ovs • • • • • 
Information Technologies, you work with some of the 
most powerful computer systems 
known to man. Advanced servers and. intranet applications. Innovative middleware and databases. Development tools that push the limits. 
And for those who prefer retro toys, we still have 
1,..w_w_w_.r_hc_g_.t_0_11 e_t_1.c_o_m_._E_o_E___. mainframes to keep you busy well beyond Y2K. 
VOLLEYBALL 

Saint Mary's falls to Lake Forest, 3-2 
By KATIE McVOY Spom Writer 

After a successful weekend at the Ohio Northern Tournament this weekend, the Belles volley­ball team dropped their game to Lake rarest College on Tuesday night, 3-2. 
Although they have a st.rong team, Saint Mary's inconsisten­cy Tuesday was the key element in the loss. 
"Consistency would be our No. 1 goal to work on," senior Agnes Bill said. "We have a good team, but we let down a few times, and that"s when they got ahead." 
Tbe Belles played hard thrnugh the fifth game. They led off thA evening strongly, beating Lake Forest 15-9 in the first game. Lake Forest bounced back to take momen­tum by winning the second game 15-2. Then Saint Mary's took the third game 15-8 to take a two games to one lead. Lake Forest tied the match in the fourth set with a 15-9 win to force a fifth and deciding game. 
Lake Forest pulled through in the fifth game, claiming victory with a 15-9 win. 
Bill led the team with 14 kills and 15 digs. Jolie LeBoau and Mary Hodovich led the defense with five blocks each . .Jayne Ozbolt and Angie M11yers played significant roles with 11 digs a piece and a total of six aces. 
The Belles will work on their consistency for the next game. They hope lo take the lead early and hold on to it. 
"We want to go three games instead of live," Bill said. 
toys. 
Web Desi,n Toys 
• • 
Stale ~arm Information Technolo,ies 
Interested in an IT career at State Farm' Visit us at www.statefarm.com/careers/. Please refer to job code TOYS/CS when e'mailing or faxing your resume. 

E-mail'. HRSf@STATEFARM.COM or FAX: 309-763-2831. 


St,te Farm Insurance Companies • Home Offices: Bloomington. Illinois An Equal Opportunity Employer 

r--------------~-----------..-----------·-------~------_,_____ _ 
Thursday, September l 6, 1999 The Observer . TODAY page 27 

EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD 
HOROSCOPE 

THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 1999 
ACROSS 34 A lot of a drill 64Big­sergeant's drill elephant 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22); Your 1 Elbowroom 35 Hoo-ha 65 Result of DAY: David Copperiield, Susan Rut­usual calm slate will b<• threatened 6 One of the 3 B's venting? tan, Lauren Bacall, Peter Falk, B.B. today. Trv nnt t() meddle in the affairs
36 Take a chance 

King, Richard Marx of those I ou love. You have pl,mty
1oKellogg Foods 66 Part of a spur 
on Happy Birthday: Your l<rwwlcdge of your own problems nght now,
brand 39 It may help you 67 Five-time 

and insight will benefit you this year and it's time you dealt with them 
14 Plant In Flanders Wimbledon
"catch up" You will be able to lead others into head-on. 00 fields 40 Fret champ the future with i·our creative LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oci. 22): Prob­.... 15 Double-reed 68 Session with an approach to all that you do. This is a lems with auth,irity figurPS c,,uld
41 Shade of blond 

woodwind M.D. year to push vourself to the limil in leave ,·ou in a peculiar situation. Us,•
42 Modern 

order to achieve the most. Fight for your creatil'e imagination t,, lifld
16 Prod 69 Nuts
summons 

your rights as well as for your posi· wars of making exlrn c,1sh. Yr,u
11 Mac maker 
44 Genetic letters tion. Your numbers: 3, 16, 24, 30, need to find a positive outll'l for your 18 Start of a quip 46 Quip, part 3 DOWN 42,46 energ,· 0000 20 1-95, e.g.: Abbr. 52 Boated, maybe ARIES (March 21-April 19): Get SCORPIO (Oct. 23·Nov. 21): You 
1 Side in the ready to socialize, but not with col­need to get nut and join groups that
21 Fritter away 53Chopdown 
Peloponnesian leagues or clients. Think twice before will bring vou in contact with inter­
23 Kind of down 54 Maiden name 
you decide to risk your position for esting people You are likely to build
War

24"0ne--preceder love. Delays will occur if you have to close n•lationships with individual,
2 Beer opener 

customer" ss Actress Gaynor travel today. Give yourself lots oi who believe in the same things as 1·ou 25 Actress Alicia 57 Matrix 3 Telethon, e.g. time.O0000 do.O00 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Get SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21):
26 Two-toned 59 How the Des 4 Pfc.'s boss 
out and shop for some new clothes. Don't push \'our luck with J'()Ur
horses Moines A. flows 5 Baloney 

Don't be afraid to change your look peers. If you need help, ask, but don't 28 Quip, part 2 60 End of the quip 6 Potted tree It's time to make physical changes expect miracles. You may be forced In 33 Sighs of distress 62 A lot 7 Help with the that will improve your appeal and put in some overtime in order to meet 
heist 

draw attention from individuals who your deadline and save your job. interest you. 000 000
8 Whitewashes 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20); Your CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-/an. 19>:ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 9 Giggling sound partner will overreact to just about Plan a tamily outing that will bring ~~~~--. 10 Prodding everything you do today. Stress w,11 y,,u all closer tL>gether. You can teach A L P S P E T S P A N E L 11 Spot overlooking Puzzle by Nancy Salomon result if you let things escalate to an y,11ing,t'"rs b)' re\'caling your own unbearable level. Honesty will be experiences from days gone b\'. You
M O A T I R A E A D O R E center court, say 38 Have a good 49 Powerful 56lnthatcase 
your best policy. 000 need 1,, avoid ,werspending. 000 
1-=--1~.:::+R:..:, N A U T S 12 way in day on the links combination 
58 Invitation letters CANCER (June 21-July 22): You AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 181: 13 Fungus 39 Can't wait to 50 Look for again will have problems with rP)atives or Spending L>n ~sdess pn,ducts will t,,, byproduct have 51 With vigor 61 Chicken --friends if you have told them too upsetting and limit you fin_ancially. king much about your personal problems You can pro~per, howevc•r, It you art.l
19 Brings up 40 Word with whip 55Ancient 

Try to be honest with yourself and willing to upgrade your li,·mg space =-i-'--'--1--"--l-'--'--I 22 Aardvark fare or rip kingdom east of 63Aock's-­by doing the work roursdt 0000 ­
deal with the situation as quick!\' as _---t--t--t--t--1 21 Passe 42 Kind of acid the Dead Sea Fighters possible 000 PISCES (Feb 19-March 20), Y(1U LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Do d little can bet that, r<'g,1rdless ol ll(lw yuu
29 "All systems go" 43 Snake charmee 

research. You may want to look at all appro,1ch an ,·nwt,onal situation. 
30 Guys 44 Mother of Hera 

your options regarding your career your partner \\'ill tdh• \'Clur words
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 

31 Wordsworth work 45 The Big Apple direction. You can make changes oul ot C()nle:d. Bt.1 prt:'ci~t' in \'our
are available by touch-tone phone: 

ii you're willing t,, makr., a mov,'. cnmmunktl!ion 00
-+-+--+--1 32 "Get going!" 47 Lounging 1-900-420-5656 (95i per minute). 
00000

~1--1-+-I+L-E A S T E C H O 36 Wet behind the around 
Annual subscriptions are available for the M A P L E A M I E R H E A ears 48 There may be a best of Sunday crosswords from the last Birthday Baby: You net'd to learn the value ,11 d dollar. Yliur g<'nl'rnsit\' 111,1y U P S E T P E E R S E A R 37 --Kabibble catch in it 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. be your downfall. Y(iur creative talent ml1St be allt"wd to devclc11• fully for \'(1U to reach the lewl of satisfaction \'OU desire. You know how lo attract ,1tte11t1on 
(Need ad\'1ce? Check out Eugenia's w,,b s1t,•s at astroadvice.com, • eugenialast.com, asfromale.com.) \\., 1~.JY Uniwr-..11 l'n'"' ~v11(hCa1ll'
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

----------------------------------------~--------------------------------­
FOURTH AND INCHES 
E)(i'I.MIJ 10 r-.E OIJE. 1-\0il,.E. .,11/\~ ~HII.T W~~e: t>,:,1N6 A,-Ht:: \/11)1:'.o i\~C.M>E.  '"r r\GUR1:,C> 1 THl!..i LIKE:· iUt Lc6cN0A'-v l'\E-N OF' Ol.c_ "! COU!-() Wt tJ f. Pf..1-z.E. l"OR M'i fAI~ M~lt)Eti il\'-O\J61-\ ""TE.S.1".S. 01" 5.~ll.L  
Fox TROT  (DILBERT HAs Movrn ro THE v1EwP01NT PAGEs.)  
Roe:.ER, YoUR CUP'S EMPT,. Tou FoRC:»oT To PuT coFFEE IN/T- HUHi> I ,,---:::  

TOM KEELEY JEFF BEAM
A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD 

iii€ sc.e;Nc ours,r;;,e Ye 01..-De: L.OC.Al.. TAVE:RN. 
BILL AMEND 
101J 1<10S SPo1L­NEED To SPoRT. GET REAOt 
FoR ScHooL
?J ANYWAY. Stlow·s OVER. 
.---u;
-::-; .... r-C 

Sometimes, they're just a dead giveaway. 
<ti 19!19 Blll Arne11u/01st by Urn~ersal Press Syndicate 'Ht. 
beam.1@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa• nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: p_o. Box Q • Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 

Name Address City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
. --. ----·-­


Belles fall Bye Bye Bird 
The Saint Mary's Pacers coach Larry Bird announces that this year 
volleyball team lost to Lake Forest last night. will be his last season 
in Indiana. 

page 26 page 23 
PORTS 

O
THE page 28 BSERVER Thursday, September I 6, 1999 
Source: Chappell attempted to sell tickets 
viously received free tickets Aug. 31 to report about the Bob Davie were not present, radio report.
. Quarterback 

from Chappell and other play­tickets. The source claimed to the source said. Notre Dame's sports infor­dismissed from ers. the source said. have met representatives from The source claimed to have mation department declined to The source also reported the athletic department the had no further contact with elaborate on the allegations. ·
team for alledgedly 

Chappell 
following day. the athletic department since "The University does notoffering free received "I thought he shouldn't be Sept. 7. comment on any disciplinarytickets for money gifts total­charging for the tickets," the At that meeting, representa­matters or anything involving ing $5,000 source said. "I thouglH the tives allegedly inquired about Eric Chappell," sports infor­from the only way to rectify the situa­gifts Chappell supposedly mation director John Heisler
By TIM CASEY 

graduate. tion was to go to the athletic received from the graduate. said.
Spom Writer 

The source department."' The source presented a list of Every uniformed player can claimed to At the meeting, the source gifts given to Chappell by the offer four guests free access to
Backup quarterback Eric 

have never denied giving gifts to Chappell graduate. each game. The players do not
Chappcll's recent dismissal 

g i v c n Chappell but mentioned that Chappell The source allegedly wit­actually receive tickets but list
from the football team was a 

Chappell tried lo sell them tickets. nessed the graduate give guests to be admitted without
punishment for attempting to 

gifts. Chappell's phone number Chappell some of 12 or 13 charge into the games. The
sell complimentary tickets and 

Davie announced Chappell"s allegedly appeared twice on gifts. The gifts were giv1m over guests must show identifica­
acceptiug gifts, an anonymous 

dismissal at Tuesday's press tho source's caller ID Sept. 6, one and a hall' years -the tion at the gate. The athletic 
source told The Observer 

conference and said it was an but the source claimed noL to most recent given this sum­department pays for the tick­
Wednesday night. 

"internal discipline matter." have returned the calls. There mer. the source said. ets.
Chappell reportedly offered 

Chappell, a third-string quar­has boen no attempted contact "He's clearly been using !the There is no team policy
two tickets for $50 each for 

terback for the Irish. repeated between Chappell and the graduate] to buy him gifts," about selling complimentary
the Sept. 4 '.'Jotre Dame­

Davie's comment Wednesday source since. the source said. the source said. tickets. Heisler said. but it is
Michigan game lo the source 

night. The source said to have met Chappell reportedly kept the an NCAA violation to sell
and a 1998 Notre Dame grad­

When asked about the alle-again with athletic department gifts in his Keough Hall dorm them.
uate. The two tickets were 

gations, Chappell said, representatives at the Main room. "I don't think there's a team 
never purchased from 

"They're false." Building on the night of Sept. The source said to have policy because it's an NCAA
Chappell by the source and the 

The source allegedly called 7. Athletic director Michael learned of Chappell's dismissal rule," Heisler said. "That
graduate. However. they pre­

the athletic department on \Vadsworth and head coach Wednesday morning from a would supercede anything." 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Grubb's three points lead Notre Dame past Butler, 5-0 
. Irish meet pregame goals in win over Vikings 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Associate Sports Edirnr 
The Butler Bulldogs blood­ied senior All-American Jen Grubb in the first halfof Notre Dame's 5-0 win last night. 
But Grubb got the last laugh when she scored her first goal of the season and added an assist in the second half. 
Grubb was forced to switch 

-
jerseys in the first half when blood from her lip got on her sleeve. Grubb switched from her customary :'lo. 6 lo Anne Makinen's No. 8. Makinen was not in uniform last night because she was playing with the Finnish national team. When Grubb put on Makinen's jersey, she not only took her number but also Makinen's goal-scoring touch. 
With the Irish leading 3-0, Grubb and Jen Streiffer lined up for a free kick from outside the penalty box. Strciffer faked a shot while Grubb fol­lowed closelv behind and tired a shot past the goalkeeper. 
Later in the second half. Grubb lofted a corner-kick high into the penaliy box. Senior Iris Lancaster redirect­
ed the ball with her head into the net for her first goal of 1999. The assist gave Grubb four points on the year. 
The near flawless perfor­mance by the Irish was exact­ly what the Irish were looking for heading into a tough two­game tournament in Texas. By the end of the game, most Irish starters were resting on the bench while their backups got experience. 
"We pnibably couldn't ask for better," head coach Randy Waldrum said. "You hope going into the game you can get your starters off because you are playing a lot of games in just a few days." 
The Irish set five goals going into the game and achieved all of them, according to Waldrum. 
The Irish wanted lo score five goals, win 80 percent of the head balls, score off two set plays, hold the Bulldogs to less than five shots and record a shutout. 
"We starting setting goals before every game and this was the first time we have met all of our goals," Grubb said. "That is a good sign heading into this weekend." 
The Irish opened the scoring when Kara Brown fired a cor­ner kick into the center of the 
see SOCCER/page 25 


-
vs. Michigan Sr. vs. Texas A&M Volleyball Saturday, l:;30 p.m. Houston, Texas vs. Manchester Col!ege 
SPORTS ~ e 
Friday, 4 p.m. Friday, 6:30 p.m. 
ATA

.. at Seton Hall Volleyball Soccer Friday, 3 p.m. vs. Miami (Ohio) s~
~ 
at Anderson College 
Saturday, 7 p.m. 
GLANCE • 
Saturday, I:30 p.m. 







