
a 
¦ Check out these profiles of the candidates 
¦ R.A.s comment on the roles and responsibilities
.... 
Tuesday

"" 
for Saint Mary's student body president and 
that come along with their challenging position.

. 
. 
I 
I 
vice president. 
FEBRUARY 2,

t 
.
. 
News•3 
Scene• 10-11 
1999

.... ..... 
-

The Independent Newspaper Servlng Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

VOL XXXII NO. 80 WWW. ND.EDU/~OBSERVER 
¦ CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 

Members vote not to support Big Ten campaign 

The Observer/Dave LaHe,st 

Members of the Campus Life Council voted in favor of a resolution opposing University membership in the Big Ten Monday. 
Debate team dominates tournament 
By LAURA UBERTI 
N,w, Writer 
Tim clPhatl' lPatll ·s f'irst­plac,~ overall f'inish at tlrn 1:rankly Speaking Delrnte Classic at Illinois's Collnge of llul'ag11 on .fan. 22 helped contribute to thn team's nationally rnspncted image, according to tt\am coach Christ (luck. 
In the s1\rni-linal round, lhey occupied Lim lop four individ­UILI !Imm spots, thus nnding tlw lournamPnl early, lluck said. 
"Thny call it closing out a lour11amrrnl," lw nxplninPd. "It is protocol !'or the same srhool not to comp1\te against itscl!'. Endin~ a tournament in this fashion is signil"lcant. It's a r1ia I ly g-r1\a t acco mpl is h­mnnl." 
"This Lournument wns all aboul (1stablishing ours1:lves in tlrn Midwost and preparing for nationals." said Dan l'eal!l, a junior Lcam nwmher. "We' malty wanted to makn a namn for ours1dvPs in the region. Thu dubate communi­ty knows wn are a force 11alionally." 
lluek d"srribed tlw victory as "one of' the linnst momnnts in Lhn I00-ycar hislory ol' the l>nbatn Tnam." 
see DEBATE/ page 4 
81 
Editor's Note: On Friday, Feb. 5, the Board ofTrustees will meet in London to discuss, among other issues, Notre Dame '.r position on joining the Big Ten and the possibility of adding the protection ofsex11,zl orimtation to the University's non-discrimination clause. Throughout the days le,1ding to that meeting, The Observer will take ti comprehemive 
look ,tt the history andpeople behi11d these twu issues as well as possible ramifications of decisions that the board might deliver. 
• 

Coaches debate conference pros and cons 
By M. SHANNON RYAN If the Board of' Trustees votes in favor of Saint Mary's Editor joining the Big Ten on Friday, Macleod, like many coaches, said he will have to 
AftPr committing ('our years to the Big ref'ocus his rC'cruiting strategies. East Conforence, men's basketball coach MacLcod may have to wonder what John Macl.eocl figures. why leave'? makes a prosp<lctive college basketball 
"It's a hard question to answer. We'rn in player opt for Notre Dame when he could 
a top-rated basketball conference. Heality says we're in the Big East right now. Do we like being in the Big East'? Yes," he said. "When we were looking for a conference the Big East lent its hand to us ... We're happy Lo be hnre." 
Coachns said that they wnre con­sulled about the possible move to tho Big Tun, !Jut most agrtm that the movn 
was drivun by football and consn­quently money. "f.ootball obviously pulls morn weight,'' vo llnybaII coach Dn bb io 
Brown said. "That's not a nngativn, but in tlrn dollar and cents of it all. that's how it is." 
"To be realistic, if it's bnst liir vollliyl.mll nnd not anyonn nlsn, it's not going to hap­p{1n. In the sam1; way. if' it's good l'or foot­hall and not anyonn nlso it wouldn't Imp­pen nitlrnr." 
Whun weighing I.ho prospects ol' leaving or staying in tlw Big East. many Irish coaches examine Lhe cffocts the move would have on recruiting. scheduling ancl llrn role of Notrn Damn's student-athletes. 

'J:')OTBALL OBVIOUSLY 
£ PULLS THE MOST WEIGHT. THAT'S NOT A NEGATIVE, BUT IN THE DOLLARS AND CENTS OF IT 

ALL, THAT'S HOW IT 1s.' 
By FINN PRESSLY News Writer 
The Campus Life Council added its name to the growing list of organizations opposing membership in the Conference on Institutional Cooperation (CIC), Monday whlln it approved a resolution that solidifies its stance against joining the Big Ten confer­ence. 
"li's been noLnd that this is one ol'the most important decisions Notre Dame will ever make !'or a while," said Tim FitzSimons. whose committee authored the resolution. 
lie also expressed the desire for Notre Dame to maintain its independent character. 
"We are ND ... It's because we're proud of it, and we're proud of our independence," said ritzSimons. "These large, secular state schools aren't the kind of schools that we want to bo compared lo." 
FitzSimons also stated the concern that an increased graduate program would have negative effects on the quality of undergrad­uate education. 
Ava Preacher, Assistant Dean of' Arts of Letters. did not forsee problems to that clI'ecL. howevor. 
"Somehow [people think that] if graduate programs arc giv(m more money. that will 
DECISIONS IN LONDON 

DMJJ)!E BIWWN The traveling schedule would \'OLLE'YIJALL COACH bncorne hnctic bncausc of thn doubln 
play at Big Ten Indiana powerhouses like IU or Purdue. 
"We should bo able to adjust without any problems. We've spnnt four years rncruiting in Uw Midwest, bul a lot in tlrn Big East. That's the minus," lw said. "We'll forns on sonwonc who maybe• has a background in Notre Dam11 tradition, fam­ily ties, closn f"ri11nds or coaches. If we go into the Big Ten ... w1~ would b<' closer to 

round-robin system of' thc Big Ten, causing stud1\nts to miss morn classes. "Studonts can only miss throe classes. In the double round-robin. there's no way they could miss just three classes. It's a real disnrlvantagn to the student-athlete," sho said. "The Big Ten has said that thny can't change that format to accommodate 
us." Men's soccer coach Mike Bcrticclli stat-
see BIG TEN/ page 6 

[our] recruiting [base]." 
Brown said the volleyball program may also experience some glitches in recruit­ing. 
"Since we recruit nationally, there's a good chance that we'll play near a play­er's home once during their career. That 
sometimes helps," she said. "One of the things we'd lose is the opportunity to play a national schedule." 
When assessing all tlrn benefits and sacrifices of the move, Brown said she would rather stay put. 
"From a pure volleyball stundpoint, I'd join th?. Big Ten. The real big plus is the Big Ten has the strongest volley­ball in the country," she said. "Just looking at what's host for the stuclent­athlPte, though. I think it's tlrn best to stay in the Big East." 
mean a loss for the undergraduate pro­grams. I'm not sure where that nquivalency comes from," she said. 
Preacher also warned the council that joining the CIC may not equate to an imme­diate boost in rnscarch classification. 
"It may not change us. Notre Dame will still be tho smallest institution in the Big Ten," she said. "It may head us down tlrn road to higher classilication, though." 
Bill Kirk, assistant vice-president for Rosidence Life, was not convinced that thn matter ol' joining tlw Big Ton was onn that should be dnbat11d by the CLC. 
"I just don't think that this is Lim right body to make this call," he said. "I don't think this emotional decision needs the sup­port of this council. The popular dncision is against joining. That statement has been made clearly by the students." 
Kennan I!all senator Matt Mamak defnnd­ed rnlevance of' the resolution on thn basis that the decision will aff'ncl the entire University. 
"I beliew this body is an appropriatll place to talk about this because it brings together three different groups of people [students. faculty, and rectors!." said Mamak. 
I le also stressed that tlrn emotional naturn 
see CLC / page 4 





page 2 
¦ INSIDE COLUMN 
A day for all 
There are many holidays that are blatantly discriminatory. yet we, as the skewed American public, close post oflices. roller rinks and live bait shops on nationally approved days 
mPant to make some group or another feel par­ticularly left out. You've got the obviously over­exploited Christian holi­davs like Christmas and Easter, and then a slew of holidays like Labor Day (what about the unem­

ployed'?) and the Fourth Heather MacKenzie 
of Julv (British citizens, 
As.sistanr Managing

anyone? What about 
Ediror their needs?) that suc­ceed in alienating one sect or another from this "land of the free" we all know and love. My favorite, of course, is the atrocious love­lest we know as Valentine's Dav. Who wins here except those cheeseballs \\'ho make out in front of the Lebanese spaghetti in the dining hall and the fat ladies at Hallmark who laugh as you scarf up their regurgitated red Christma.,;; decorations and leftover chocolate, marked up to prices higher than at the book­store especially for a holiday purposely created to make 93 percent of the population lonelier and fatter? Which brings me to Groundhog Day, the holi­day that all can enjoy, even ifyou are not from Punxsutawney. What's noi to love about a cute furry thing that pops his adorable noggin out of a grassy knoll and makes a prediction about the weather? Groundhog Day was originally conceived from the ancient creation story of the Delaware Indians, who believed that original people began life as animals and were born again to live life as men. The woodchuck, or groundhog, was thus considered the earliest of all creatures and the "grandfather of men." The traditions encased in this ancient lore alone should be reason enough to declare Groundhog Day sacred. It doesn't end there: While the Native Americans were revering the groundhog before there was a reason to celebrate Columbus Day, the Germans were celebrating a holiday called "Candlemas Day," in which Roman candles were lit (a direct connection to the Catholic Church, I might add) and if the sun appeared a hedgehog would cast a shadow and be scared back into his hole, predicting six more weeks of winter. If the historiography alone isn't enough to make Groundhog Day gain "holiday-for-gov­ernment-employees" status, there is also rea­son to make Groundhog Day a time to reflect on life gone by. In 1953, the city of Punxsutawney gave two relatives of the famous "Seer of Seers, Sage of Sages, Prognosticators of Prognosticators, and Weather Prophet Extraordinary" (that's what they call the groundhog) to the Los Angeles Griffith Park Zoo as a gesture of goodwill. As soon as the six­week-old baby groundhogs arrived, the evil California Department of Agriculture declared them "agricultural pests" and ordered them exterminated. They were shot with a rifle in cold blood soon after. The Punxsutawney Board of Directors has since banned all residents of California from joining the club, but the memory of this heinous act of violence against the groundhog remains. The two slaughtered furballs now rest in a spe­cial burial plot in the Groundhog Club Park, and each year the Groundhog Club remembers them with their thoughts and prayers. So if not to celebrate a joyous day full of fun, frolic and furry animals, remember the history, the passion and the myth behind this ancient holiday. And anything that relates to a Bill Murray movie has to be great. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
¦ Tomw·s STAFF  
News  Scene  
Anne Marie Matringly  Loubel Cruz  
Brad Unriedr  
Finn Pre.sly  Graphics  
Sports  Scott Hardy  
Brian Kessler  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Eddie Llull  Joe Srark  

Th, Obs,:rver (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Mondoy rhrough Friday exccpc during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is-a member of the Associated Press. All reprnducrion rjghrs ;a.re rc~ervcd. 
The Observer• INSIDE Tuesday, February 2, 1999 





utside the Dome 
Compiled from U.Wire reports 

Full frontal nudity on display at male dance revue 
IOWA CITY, Iowa 
Nudity in the Union Wheelroom on Jan. 30 during a male dance revue has sparked an investigation by UI officials. 
"Ladies' Nite: African-American All­Male Revue Dance Show," sponsored by the Black Entrepreneurial Association, featured five exotic male dancers from Chicago. According to an organizer and students who attended the event, several of the male dancors exposed themselves while on slage. 
Depending on the context of the event, the frontal nudity may have been in conflict with UI policy, said Steve Parrott, associate director of Universitv Relations. 
A repo;.t has been made to Student Services, Parrott said, and adminis­trators will now be gathering facts about the event to determine their next step. 
THE UNIVERSITY OF 

OWA 
The routine included stage strip­ping, and lap and tab.le dancing for tips. 
"They came out in clothes and went down to G-strings," said UI freshman Felicia Penza, who attended the show. "And then [the dancers] would whip it out for a couple of seconds." 
Organizer Derick Mitchell said he 
told the dancers that there were cer­
tain Iowa laws and campus rules that 
had to be followed during the event. 
Despite his warning, the dancers 
exposed themselves. 

'That right there suprised me a lit­tle myself," he said. "They were invit­ed here and I told them specifically what I wanted them to do, but they got a little bit out of control." 
Mitchell said the show drew a posi­tive response from the several hun­dred women who attended. But, now that the show is over, Mitchell said he expects negative feedback from Ul officials regarding the event. 
"They did some things that they shouldn't have, some things I wasn't expecting," he said. "I tried to keep it down as much as I could, but once they did it, what can you do?" 
Penza, who said she enjoyed the event, was surprised a show of this nature was held in a Ul building. 
"They would take the women up on stage, and [the women] were strad­dling them with their legs up in the air and ltho dancer's] face in their­crotch," she said. 
¦ BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY Olympics scandal involves schools 
PROVO, Utah 

BYU and two other Utah colleges were issued subpoenas Thursday by the U.S. Justice Department, which is investi­gating the Salt Lake Olympic Committee scandal. The Justice Department is requiring BYU, Utah Valley State College and the University of Utah to submit school records to aid in their investigation. "BYU has actually received two subpoenas. The first was received the middle of last week, and the second was late Wednesday," said Carri Jenkins, director of media communications for BYU. Jenkins said the Justice Department subpoena requested the transcripts of nine individuals. One name on the list is Suhel Attarabulsi, son of former International Olympic Committee member Bashir Attarabulsi of Libya. Attarabulsi, who attended the BYU English Language Center, received funds for tuition and expenses through a SLOC scholarship, Jenkins said. 
¦ COLUMBIA Uf\mtrnsnv Scientists claim truth to biblical flood 
NEW YORK, N.Y. 

Though the story of Noah's ark has long been consid­ered a biblical myth, two Columbia oceanographers have found evidence that a vast and deadly flood did occur around the same time the Bible indicates Noah's flood occurred. In their book, Noah's Flood: The New Scientific Discoveries About the Event That Changed History, Walter Pitman and William Ryan, senior scientists at the Lamont­Doherty Earth Observatory, attributed the biblical story to the Black Sea surge that occurred around 5600 B.C. The evidence for this book came from the scientists' 1993 expedition to the Black Sea with the Russian Academy of Sciences. Pitman and Ryan were invited on the expedition by Russian scientists with whom they had maintained con­tact even before the Iron Curtain fell. The trip was the first time the former Soviet shoreline was open to researchers from the West. 
¦ SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY Tennis players testify on harrassment 
NEW YORK, N.Y. 
Senior Dacia Kornechuk and 1998 graduate Kirsten Ericson were not the first to be sexually harassed by head tennis coach Jesse Dwire and mistreated by Syracuse University, according to the testimony of seven former SU tennis players. After learning of allegations of sexual harassment against Dwire and the university, former play­ers who played for SU more than 15 years ago came for­ward to detail stories of unwanted sexual massages, inap­propriate touching, and constant threats and intimidation. Kornechuk, Ericson and their parents filed a $762 million sexual harassment suit last year against SU, head tennis coach Jesse Dwire, Athletic Director Jake Crouthamel and other members of SU's athletic department. They main­tain that Dwire harassed them both verbally and physical­ly, created a hostile environment and threatened their scholarships and playing time. 
¦ UNIVERSITY Of WISCONSIN 
Laundromat and bar combo opens 
MADISON, Wis. 
The future of laundry has established itself in Madison. A new laundroplex/cybercafe will radically transform the way students traditionally view washing dirty socks and stained T-shirts in antiquated machines. Laundry 101, Madison's first laundromat, cafe and bar, opened its doors last Friday. "We've essentially waged war on laundromats," Zach Brandon, Vice President of Laundry 101, said. "We're rein­venting what laundry is for the college student." The idea for the laundroplex was based on their college experience, Brandon said. The store, painted in jarring neon colors, con­tains an eclectic mix of dozens of stainless steel laundry machines, bar stools and computer equipment. "We wanted to build a bright and fun atmosphere for students-we developed a place where students could do anything from getting a beer to doing a load of laundry," Brandon said. "This is definitely a place oriented towards college students." 
¦ Sourn Brno VVEATHER ¦ NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 

AccuWeather" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Thursday 
~ 138 291
~ 

Friday ~::(:12.i" :::~f 
~. ·i:1..\*::;h·\l~/'i ~!~~)1~)1:i~::~~::: . 

Satgrday ,.:c~,44 30 
(~\.r---;•,.,...._;"°'½~:,; ,. 
Q,Q,~4.8~ {) ~ 
u 
Showers T-storms Rain Fl~n-ies Ice Sunny Pf. Cloooy Cloudy
S~;; 
Vis Associated Press GraphicsNet 



Tuesday, February 2, I999 The Observer. SAINT MARY'S ELECTIONS page 3 

Midden/Little suggest study day, winter carnival 

Horvath/Guerreso aim to improve dining service 
By M. SHANNON RYAN 
Saim Mary·s Editor 
Instituting a study day during f'inals wnek. cniating a t(:dmology commissioner position and 1·.nhibrnling a wintnr rarnival top lhP list of campaign goals for student body pr1isiLknlial and vice presid,rntial nuulidall'S Nancy Midd('tl and An!{in 1.ittln ··w<' havn a V(iry packPd platform, but wn'w d111rn all thn rnsnarch," MidLhin said. "/\II goals arP v1iry attainabhi. Wn'r11 in this for all thn right masons." 
"I want to Pnsurn that iwnryonn wo'rn working with is having a good tinw. If' owryorH' can lcwl as good as I do lwhen I achiPvii a goal! ... I think wn'II bn vury SIICl'.t'SsfuI." 
EXPEHlt:N(:E 

Micldnn and Littlo, both juniors, have an nxtPnsivt• background in Student C.ov1irnmmll Association (SCA) and BXpPri­oncn working with nach other. During llmir sophomorn ynar, Mickhm snrved as class pwsidnnt with Littln as vice prnsi­dm1t. 
This year they work on Board of (;ovnrnancn (BOG) tog11tlrnr, Midden as the studnnl body vicu president and Little as the junior class prnsidm1t. They share the nxpnrinncr, of working as tutors in tho writing cm1tl•r as wl'IL 
As student body vice pnisidont, Midch•n's duties includn acting as coordi­nator of tlrn Stucl1111l i\cacl<m1ic Council (Si\C). Sim is an economics major from Springfinld. Ill., and has also served as a prPscnlPr at an Association of Collnge Unions lnlPrnational confornnco. 
Lillie, a doubl•i major in English and humanistic studi«is from Fort Wayne, Ind., is a l'rnsidcntiul Merit Scholar and has cixpiiricncn as a judicial board member. 
"Wn work vnry woll together," Middnn said. "WI' brainstorm and know who will LakP what din1rtinn with a project. I am good al chihigaling and i\ngie rnakrn; sure l'Vnrything gops in tlrn right dirnction. We'ni vPry opPn to each other's opinion." 

GOALS 

Study /Jay: Middcrn and Littln havo worked with tlw Saint Mary's rngistrar on a proposal to tlw Si\C for one study day during finals wooks. 
"We know it's a nend. We've heard what the students have !.o say," Midden said. "A'i SAC e.oordinator, I've do1111 research at other institutions and seen that it has worknd." 
The idea has previously mnt opposition, Midchm said. becauso proposals called for two day,; instmrcl of one. 
Because Saint Mary's and Notre Dame mirror each other's schedules, there is room t'or llrn study day, the candidates said. 
Littln mt\ntioned that some administa­tors have been hesitant about allowing study days because of thn way many per­ceive Notre Dame students misusing thn day without dass1is. 
"I really don't think it's a fair compari­son," Little said. "I think we would utilizn the day. It would lrn a good chance to open Madel1wa t'or study sessions and speaking to professors." 
Celebrate a winter carnival: Reinstating a winter festival would promote social opportunities on campus, Midden and Little said. The day would be a chance to relax and have fun in between Saint Mary's Pride Day in the fall and SMC Tosta! in the spring. 
Some tnntative activities include a snow­man -buiIding contest, freezing Lake Marion and ice skating on it and having a "day at the beach" in Hagaar. 
"Saint Mary's has very dedicated stu­dents. It's bard for them to sit back, relax and enjoy," Little said. "This would be an opportunity to do that and to bond." 
Alumnae workshop and menlor pro­gram: Midden and Little plan to "bring alumnae back to Saint Mary's to sham their advice, experiences and past times." 
The BOG alumnae commissioner would be in charge of instituting the alumnao workshop and discovering "great resources." She would locate interestPd alumnae by mailing letttH·s with proposals to as many alums as possible. Tim work­shops would consist of two or three morn­ing s!1ssions. lunch, a keynote speaker and thrnn or four more mnetings in the aflor­noon. 
Beginning with this year's graduating snniors and incoming freshmen, the mon­tor program would "providH a vital link l'or students and aide in the transition of' life after Saint Mary's as an alumna." The program would match freshmen to alum­nae who share similar career intPrnsts. It may also sponsor a weekend visit of alums and currnnt studonts. 
"Wc'\'e talked to a good deal of seniors, and tlwy senm very excitAd to come back and help," Little said. 
SMC !'ride Day: Under their leadership, the annual Oct. 6 Saint Mary's holiday would be improved by adding a pep rally. For chrouological reasons, Midden said this would probably be the lirst goal to materialize. 
"Tim pep rally would be for athletes bul also for all the accomplishments of Saint. Mary's studcn1.'i," Little said. "It's a way to horrnr our students whether they're ath­letes or in choir." 
Teclmofoyy Commissioner: With increas­ing technology advances on campus, the Middnn/Little ticket looks to add a teclmol­ogy commissionnr to the BOG. 
The position would potentially include the duti(is ol' designing webpages for SGA, which is currently a job of tho communi­cations commissimwr, and acting as a lia­sion lmtwnen the administration and the students. The commissioner would take initiativP in voicing connrns of the students in voice mail, rable, tdevision, computers and any other areas of technology. 
i\dditional goals include displaying 
archives on the lirst lloor of the library. "capturing the traditions of Saint Mary's" in a tinrn capsule to be reopened in 2050 and creating a one-crPdit course on "the real world." 
The course would teach the basic skills of resume and cover letter writing. It would also focus on networking and lind­ing jobs and internships. Still in the plan­ning stages. the class would meet twice a week for the first seven weeks of a semes­ter. 
Communication: The candidates assert that one of their main stnmgths is their dedication to open dialogue. 
"One of our main allribuLBs is our open­ness to ideas and suggestions," Midden said. "WB can be reached via e-mail, the parent newsletter and calendars. I also enjo~ it ~hen people come to our [IlOG) meetmgs. 
The bPst way to reach the students is through optimum utilization of SAC, Little said. 
"We really want to tap into SAC," she said. "It is helpful in braching the gaps and getting in touch with every single stu­dent." 
Tonight, calldidates for student body president and vice president will debate, field questions t11ld discuss t/,eir campaign goals in Hagaar Parlor at 7 p.m. Elections will take place 011 Thursday in the dining hall. 
K1iy goals 111' sturlPnl body prnsid(intial and vin! prnsidcntial randidatns .lanet llorvath und Cina (;up1-r1iso inrlude i111pr11\'ing dining hall snrvicns, linking campus organizations to studm1ts and pro­moting c:ullural awarPrwss through nduca­tion. 
"A lot ol' tlw tinw things arn said, but nothing is donn about it. I haw no doubt in my mind that wp'II follow throu~h." (;unrTPso said. "If wn'rp clt'C'[Pd wP'd rliv11 right in and tackli• thnsP issues. They're all foasiblii and WP can start 011 t.lwm right away," 


llorvath ancl c;unrreso, both juniors, have work11d togetlwr in thn Board of ( ;oVPrnancn moc;), although thny worn oflPn involwd in dilfornnt hrandll's. Thny viliw tlwir variud backgrounds as a strength in tlwir campaign, howevnr. 
"Wn conrn from dilforPnl involvnnwnts, so wn pull from diffnrent groups," (;u(11-rc•so said. "Wn've narh done our own thing hut wo'vn been in dosn contact with 
thous 
ha 
word: De du/~horr3883/ cmch other." What thny havn in common, Horvath said. is that "we both really l11v•i Saint Mary's and want to givP back lo it as ,mwh us wn've gottnn from it." Horvath, a business major with a con­cnntration in rnarknling from Nnw Carlisln. Ind., is currently thn coordinator of' Studnnt Al'tivit.ies Board (SAB). l.asl year, she servnd as the dections commissiorwr and registration chair of sophonwrn par­ents' wmiknnd. Horvath is a l'n•sichintial MNit Scholar with nxpnriencn as a fwsh­man class board n•pres(•ntative, an orien­tation counsnlor and a mnmbllr of the Play of lhn Mind committee. (;uerrnso, a mass t•ommm1kations major f'rom Livonia, Mich., is curnmtly serving as tlrn prcsid1int of thn Hesidence I!all Association. She was the McCandless l lall prnsidnnt and chairwoman last ynar and also served as an editor ol' Blw1 Mantnl. Guerrnso has also dedicated linrn to volun­teerism. GOALS Improving dining hall seniices: In an effort to climiniale what Horvath and Gucrrnso call "a major conc1irn of the slu­
dnnL'i," llwy would likP to design meal plan options l"rom which the students can choosn. Current.ly. the Saint Mary's meal plan. offon\d through ScdexoMarriotl, is automatically a part of the room and hoard l'Pes. 
Ilorvath and GuerTc!so plan on establish­ing a point system if students choose to tak11 advantagn ol' it. 
"Hight now some students only eat one meal a day in thr dining hall," Ilorvath said. Tlw point sysl11m would especially bennfil lhnse studm1t..,;, shn said. 
Their other goals concerning dining ser­vicns inc:lude incrnasing the variety and accnss to grab-and-go and increasing "much money" allotnrnnts to use in tho snack bar. 
"Wn'II still BANI to talk more to Marriott." Cunrreso said. "I think they'll be recnptivci hncause they want to please the students." 
Unk cw11pus organizations to sludenls: Distributing a handhook of campus clubs and organizations to students is a way llorvath and l;uorreso plan to increase participation and communication on cam­pus. 
/\long with this goal, they want to estab­lish a llow or communication by e-mail and Urn SG;\ wnbsitn wlrnrn studenL'i can "voice their concl'rns, offnr suggestions and ask qunsticms. We'rn approachable p,iople. We can bn callncl day or night or stopped on campus," llorvath said. "We're open to iduas. TPII us before we institute some­thing if'w(•'rc way oil' basn." 
l'ro111u/c cull.ural awareness through edw:atim1: IIorvath and Guorrnso said tlrny will strivn to create dnpartment courses with tlw nrrriculum committee that Pxam­inn various cultures and lil'nstvles. 
/\I though some similar ·classes are offerncl, tlw candidatns want to expand tlwsn c'.ours1is to include more depart­ments. 
"W(i'd like to see it go across more depnrt111m1ts," (;uerruso said. "\fore com­munications and business classes exploi:­
ing different cultures for instance. Some or tlrn classtis in these departments touch on the sul~jcct, but there isn't a spm'.Hic class like this." 
Crnalion of cultural coursns would lwlp with recruiting as well. Horvath said. "This would show that Saint Mary's is commit.­tnd to cultural diversity. It's not just somn­thing wn talk about; it's something we act on." 
E..1:panding career and coun:wling deoel­opmenl center: A program through tlw CCDC would be effoctive in lielping lirst year students adjust to college life and to be morn pronfl to take advantage or vari­ous opportunities, the candidates said. 
The program would also be available to upperclasswomnn. It would assist in class snlction, choosing majors and earner advic,i. 
A l"lrst-ynar COLT was previously insti­tuted on this topic, but making it a full­lfodged course was previously met by resistance l'rom somn faculty nwmbers. llorvath said. 
"They did not sec it as academic enm1gh," she said, noting that this course would be a major asset to tlw typical stu­dent. 
Guerrnso said it would be a chance for freshmnn to get acquaintod with thn Collnge. 
"You'd get to know the institution through Urn <:nurse," slrn said. "You wouldn't be intimidated to gt1l to know Saint Mary's and luarn about tlm Sisters !of the lloly Cross I. 
"Books arn a gn:at Looi for h\arning, but !in addition! we have such an excnllent source right hnrn on campus. Having the Sisters sp1mk to students one-on-one would have many benlib," llorvath said. 
Other goals indudn inte){rating wellness into the Saint Mary's culture, promoting pride in Saint Mary's and continuing tho goals of tho current student body president (Sarah Siefert) and vice prcsidnnt (Nancy Midden) concerning admissions and tech­nology. 
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, February 2, 1999 
Debate 
continued from page 1 
The four two-person teams compiled a collective 17-7 record, even after they each suffered first-round losses. The winning teams' members included Peate. sophomores Priscilla Clements and Kate II uctteman, and freshmen Joyce Bohnkn, Will McDonald, !\ilichelle Petersen, Hachel. Smith and 1\lark Styczynski. 
This outing is representative of the strong season the team has produced so far, accord­ing to Huck. 
"We're a young team, but we're doing vory well," he said. "Last semester we t-ook first place at a tournament at the Air I~orce Academy, too." 
The team is comprisPd of 12 
members,  with  only  three  
upperclassmen  and  nine  
freshmen.  

"We're going lo the Novice Natinnal Tournament. for freshmen and sophomores,'' said Huck. "There l expect us to finish in the top ten, if not the top five. Even winning the tournament isn't out of the question." 
When the team competes, it is not only against the host school. but also against all other attending teams. That number can range from four to 
50. The best teams now are Colorado State and Carroll College of Montana, according to Huck. 

"It's difficult to compare [our status to Colorado State or CarrollJ because, unless you go to tournaments with them, you don't know how you'll do," he said. Those teams compete mainly in the west, so Notre Dame may not meet them until nationals, he explained. 
Although Notre Dame is as big as some schools it com­petes against, students do not receive debate scholarships. Instead, the team is funded through the Student Affairs department. 
"We compete all the time. It's a little-known thing," said Huck. "We travel all around the country." 
Students typically prepare for tournaments by practicing twice a week in front of' their coach but must read on their own to keep up on current events, Huck explained. 
During tournaments, stu­
dents are put into two-person 
teams and are given a topic 
either to affirm or oppose, 
with only 15 minutes of' prepa­
ration. 
.Competition began with tour­
naments in August, and will 
conclude two weeks afLer 
spring break. The team will 
travel to St. Louis Feb, 12-14 
for a tournament at 
Washington University, then 
attend one at Willamette 
University in Salem. Oro. They 
will conclude the season with 
the national tournament in 
Point Loma, Calif., Huck said. 


Happy Groundhog Day! 

January 23  -4:00 PM  Deadline  -January 21  
February 6  -10:00 AM  Deadline  -February .4  
February 13 -2:00 PM  Deadline  -February 11  

Clinic held at Notre Dame Golf Course Register in Advance at RecSports $5.00 Charge Wear Layered Clothing and Warm Gloves 
Equipment Rental Available -$4.00 Charge 
R~~ 
Got the mid-semester orgo blues? 
Pray with us. 



lnte~~­
m:rfr!ht p1 ij.\_rer 
.. featuring the Celebration Choir. 
Wednesday Nights 
(Nv.1PUS 


-10:00 -10:30pm • Walsh Chapel 
MINISTRY 

CLC 
continued from page 1 
of the issue made it increasingly relevant to the cu:. 
"The Cniversity of Notre Dame is an emotional place; most students and alumni will tell you that. This is an emo­tional decision," said Mamak. "Changing the character of this University is not some­thing the students want to do." 
Keough Hall senator Brian O'Donoghue also supported the CLC's role in the Big Ten decision. 
"This is the time. This is the place. This is the decision ,., Let's do this. Let's pass this," O'Donoghue said. 
The resolution passed near­ly unanimously; Preacher was the only CLC member to vote against it and Kirk and stu­dent body president Peter Cesaro abstained. 




1-5323 
~ ---------WHY NOT..II 
Previous Job:
I I Hometown: 
I Resume Item: I I 
Financial Analyst Colville, WA ND Student Body President, 88-89 


"Don't tell me you can't.
I 
I ANSWER THE CALL--today!" 
I --Fr. Tom Doyle, C.S.C., ND '89, '97, Rector, Keough Hall I 

For more information on
I 
Holy Cross' one-year
I 
Candidate Program
I 
contact:
I 
Fr. Jim King, C.S.C. or
I 

Fr. Bill Wack, C.S.C.
I 

1-6385
I 
vocation. l@nd.edu
I 

I ¦ .. ---_.. FOLLOW HIM .... ? check out 1HE PLUNGE atwww.nd.edu/~vocation 
Celebrate President's Day 

Bring this ad in when you switch your direct deposit to Notre Dame Federal Credit Union and take a few portraits ofyour favorite presidents home.* 
Framing optional. 
rl!. NOTRE DAME 
~ FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
For People. Not For Profit. "Must be a full rime employee and direct deposit yournet pay, 
www.ndfcu.org 
(219) 239-6611 (800) 522-6611 
~ ~ 
Independent of the University 


Tuesday, h:-bruary 2, I999 COMPll.ED FROM Tm; OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
¦ WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Excavation begins on 
downtown ruins 

MIAMI 
A d(•wlopl'r agn•Pd to giv1• arch,wologists anoflH:r month tll complr:tn tlrnir nxcavatillll of a downtown siln tlwy lwli(Wll contains pre­historic ruins. In an agnH•nwni rnadrnrl Sunday, Michael Baunrn1111 promis(id to allow nrd11wologisl.s to contimw tlwir nxcavation without intl'rrPrPll<'.P through Fnb. 2(1. With lh1• n•1wi1•w. Baumann avnrtnd the possibili­ty 01' a legal fight Llrnt could hnv(• chilayflcl ronstrurlion of' a $100 million rnsidential­1·0111111Nrial com plt•x. During a roulino sur­v1•y of tlH' 2.2-acrn sitf' fast s11mnH!r, archae­ologists dis(·ov<>n•d a circle made up of clo1cns of holHs carvnd into stonn. Thn spot is hPliPv1•d to llavP hPP!l a sn1.tll!rntmt ol' the Tnq11Psta Indians, a group that disappParnd hundr!'ds of ynars ago. The circln, which is :rn !"P(•I in diamdPr. ronsisls of sto1w carv­ings and post lrnlns. Sonw of the formations l"(•s,•mblP tlw shap1\s or spa animals. 
Chinese arrest Catholic clergy 
BEUING 
l'oli('.P havn arrnst1\d two prinsts along with an unknown numbPr of other rnemlrnrs of China's undnrground Catholic church, a U.S.­hasnd group nqiortf•d Monday. Polic11 in norlhPrn ltPlwi provincP arrostnd tlw Hev. l'(\i .lunrhao and t!rn Hnv. Chnn llnkun on 
Ian. 2!i, tlw Cardinal Kung Foundation l'PporlNl. Tht' group providnd 110 other ddails, but said prinsts and s<iminarians Wf'n' possibly among t!w ot!wrs taknn into custody. Thri arrnsts arn t!rn latest. movns against Catholics worshiping outsidn China's statP-approvPd churd1. Wnrril'(I ahout chal­lPngris to its authority. tlw ruling Communist !'arty has targPlPd illngal rnligious gather­ings i11 ;i hrn,HI crnd:down 011 dissnnt. 
Journalist disappears in Cuba 
OSLO 
A NorwPgian photojournalist has ber.n l'('p111•tprf missing in Cuba after !'ailing to rl'turn to Oslo from a thrnn-wock trip to the island. Holl" M. !\aganrd, !i4. a photographer l'or Oslo's /\l"tP11poslPn 1wwspaper, was Ia.st '11\arc! l'rom on Jan. 7, shortly aft,ir he arriv1\d alorrn in l!avana for a study trip. Ile was LO lrnvP t"l'turrwd to Oslo on Friday, but his airli1w ticknts wnr(• not used. /\ftnnpostm1 said Mon<lay. I !is family reportmi him miss­ing this \,\'t'nkt•ncl. Norw11gian authorities am att1•mpting to tracP him through tlrn intnrna­lional pnliw organization lnlnrpol and diplo­mati1· d1an1wls. Two top edit()rs from i\f"ll'nposlf'II ldt for Cuba on Monday to join tlw snarch. Aagaard is a veteran photojour­nalist who has visit1id Cuba oflnn and pub­lislwd a hook about tlw country. 
-11.U 

VOLUME LEADERS 

( PMrANY ti{ kl U %(111\Nl,r :\ GAIN r111n· 
llU.l.t'tlMl'llllM. Llfll ,i.H.00 ,i.K_noon HI~ 00 I :l\1 O \Y,I ! M'-1 C \Cf,) +.U~ ...t ...47:t 11:\.0U JI! tlXI Ukll tll)l.PISI il 11\01! t 114,111 ~2.()!,fiJ 5.!'ih Mh ltP\Pl'I ( UR l' M\11 l lK .2.0,100 l72.'1~ t t l\tl'Ati c't l~!f•p 11 R <l'Cl -1 .\r1 ,0.74.\0 4b.88 I' fl~,,lll t,lUlllJ' Udll' ~ l.i.ll l tl.l'J!JU 62.H (ll~..\T I!< i)l.fi' ,nu 1 +-h.7~ + ~.741t0 Sell. 12 ll'illl'ORI' INH' -2.17 •.l.0~7~ 1.17.KK NtlklHt-. 1~11 t~C :-.11 -dl.t.1, -4(19, 74~0 1,\,62 !\JI I Wl>RI.P\ P.\A IM W( U\I +1.25 .+l.lil)OO Ii(!. 7-~ 


Con1posite Volume: ') 16.400,00 
ASSOCIATED PRESS lzzmline al Qassam. the Israeli charges and accused the 
Two of the men, Haed Attar and governmont or Prime Ministor 

ll/\F/\11 Osama Abu Taha, escaped from Ben_jamin Ndanyahu of snizing excuses 
/\ Palestinian security agent was Palestinian custody two months ago so it would not have to hand over 13 killnrl Monday in a shootout with three and arc also wanted by Israel, a porcont of thn Wost Bank. as promised fugitives from the Islamic militant Palestinian security onicial said on the in the Wye accord. Netanyahu sus­group llamas who had been under condition of anonymity. The third man pended the agrnnnrnnt last month, cit­policn surveillancn. was identified as Mohammed /\bu ing Palestinian violations. 
Tlw fugitives then sped away in a car Shamala. Earlier Monday, Ahmed Yassin, the and ran ovor an 8-year-otd girl who The slain agent was identified as spiritual loader of' llamas. said he was dind ol' lier injuries. said Brig. Mahmud Hifat Judah, 34. fasting l'or the day to press for the Asf'our, deputy dirnctor of the The confrontation camn at a time rnlnase of llamas dntainnes being held Palnstinian policn. when Israel renewed accusations that without chargns by the Palestinian 
The three wnrn arrnsted several llm Palestinian Authority was releasing Authority. hours later in the Shati rnfugcc camp llamas activists involved in tnrror Dozens of llamas activists held in in the northern Gaza Strip af'ler anoth­attacks from jail. jails in the West Bank towns or Nablus or gunbattln with sncurity forces. The Israel has said such rnlnases am a and .Joricho began a hunger strike nine second shootout left another violation of the Wye Hiver peacn agren­days ago. Palestinian girl injured. but not snri­m nn t in which the Palestinians Thn Palestinian Authority has carried ously. Asfour said. prnmised to do more to rnin in Islamic out repeated arrnst sweeps in response 
Palestinian police said the three were militants. to suicide bombings by llamas in nrnmbcrs or llamas' military wing, The Palestinian Authority has denied Israol. 




Lawyers apologize to Lewinsky 
ASSOCIATED PRESS 
WASIIJNGTON 

President Clinton's lawyers on Monday offered Monica Lewinsky un apolo­gy "on behalf of tho prcsi­de 11 t" for the difficulties tlrn impeachment. inv1ist!­gation has caused lrnr. they turned down the chance to ask any ques­tions during swum t,isti• mony forced by House prosecutors. 
The d,~position of' thH l'or­me r intPrn took µlace behind dosed doors in the Mayl'lownr ilolcl's presi· dential suito, but was videotrqwd for senators weighing the irnpnachmMt chargos. 
Hflp, Ed Bryant. H-Tenn., spont about four hours posing questions on behalf of the House prosncution team that fought to ptlr• suado the Senate to sum­mon Ms. Lewinsky. 
Hor tnstimony closoly tracked her flarlier account to a federal grand jury, according to sources familiar with thr. testimony who comment.cd only on condition of Mwnymit.y. Tho sources wore not asso­ciated with the !louse prosecutinn learn and worked outside thn White House. 
Bryant himself would not discuss tlw suhstance of the questioning, which lasted fur less than the 
eight hours set. aid~i by the Senate, but he said ho "felt ii was a productive ses­sion." 
Four senators sat in on the session as referees hut would give no details latl:'r hncause they arn bound by a Senat(' admonition not to discuss what they observed. The rest ol' tlrn Sona.to is expected to review the videotape as early as Tunsday as part. of the trial to rr.movc Clinton from office. 
Presidential f'riend Vernon Jordan will be questioned on Tuesday and White llousc aide Sidney Rlumonthal on Wednesday in dc>positions in a priva.to room at the Capitol. 
At one point in Monday's sossion, private presiden­tial attorney Nicole SPligman read a statonwnl that apologiznd to Ms. Lewinsky "on behalf of the prnsiclt>nt for all the trou­bln tlw investigation and irnpr.achnrnnt trial had caused her," one ol' the 
sourc<:1s snid. 
Seligman and thn two other Clinton attorneys who aHend11d the snssion posed no questions of the fornwr int(wn, according to sevural sourcHs. 
Tim prnsident's tnam had planned not to ask ques­tions if the lawyers felt the prusm:utors had brokM no no,v ground, said several Democratic sources. 

page 6 The Observer. CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, February 2, l 999 
Big Ten 
continued from page 1 
ed concern about student-ath­letes as well. 
"Many of the schools do not have the same academic stan­dards. Competing against these team will definitely affect the student-athlete," he said. 
The traveling schedule also does not appeaLto many coach­es. 
Like Brown, Berticelli said hfl would rather take a "plane to Pittsburgh than a bus to Bloomington." 
Macleod, however, does not see the traveling as a hin­drance. 
"The benefit [of joining] is obviously that we sit right in the middle of Big Ten country. The geography is a perfect fit," he said. "We could take five or six bus trips as opposed to plane trips. Travel-wise, it's a lot easi­er and a lot shorter." 
Changing conferences may not be drastic to the near­dynasties that women's teams like basketball. soccer and vol­leyball have built in the Big East, but it does pose a threat to the comfort level at which many of these teams compete. 
Volleyball and women's soc­cer have dominated as four­time Big East champs. 
Since joining the Big East in 1995-96, women's basketball made its first Final Four appearance and appeared at the semi-finals of the Big East tournament for three consecu­tive years. Currently, it is ranked sixth in the nation and, at 17-2. enjoying it's best start in school history. 
"It's going to be a tough tran­sition," said women's basketball coach Muffet McGraw. "We have to learn 11 brand new teams and try to get the same feel for them as we have for the teams in the Big East. We're very comfortable in the Big East." 
McGraw said that her team should fare well in the Big Ten, but would feel like it was a starting over .point. 
But some advantages for women's basketball, McGraw said, are bigger crowds and more money. 
"From top to bottom, the Big Ten puts more money into their sports," she said. "The Big Ten leads the nation in attendance." 
Many coaches, however, don't see the scales tipping in either direction. 
"I don't have a strong opinion on it either way. The Big East is a great conference for us. The competition in the Big East has a lot more top quality teams ... than the Big Ten," Berticelli said, noting that almost half of the teams in the Big East consis­tently land a spot in the top 25. 
"We're going from one good conference to another. From a men's soccer perspective. the trade-offs are pretty even. I don't think we have anything to gain by going into the Big Ten." 
One challenge Berticelli will face is making a schedule out­side of the conference. Currently, only six schools have men's soccer. With Michigan's recent vote for a program and Notre Dame's possible move. the number would be up to eight -still a small group. 
The men's soccer team is also 
at a disadvantage because it has 
fewer fully-funded scholarships 
to offer than most Big Ten 
schools. Berticelli has had to 
encounter this in the Big East as 
well. 
What can Berticelli do about 
the unequal funding? 
"Nothing. You can't combat it," he said. "You have to match financially if you want to com­p1ite at that level." 
At this point, hockey still isn't sure at what level it would com­pete if Notre Dame joined the Big Ten. 

There is no Big Ten hockey 
conference, but with  Notre  
Dame  joining  Ohio  State,  
Michigan,  Michigan  State,  

Minnesota and Wisconsin there would be six Division [ Big Ten schools with hockey -the num­ber needed for a hockey confer­ence. Michigan, Michigan State and Ohio State make up the Big Ten schools in the Central Collegiate Hockey Association with Notre Dame, while Minnesota and Wisconsin com­pete in the Western Collegiate Hockey Association. 
'Tm very happy in the CCHA," said Irish hockey coach Uave Poulin. "We'll just have to sit back and wait for an overall decision." 
The move may actually have a bigger impact on other schools' programs. Small powerhouses like Lake Superior State and Alaska Fairbanks will especially be affected by the decrease in competition if a Big Ten hockey conference is created. 
"We play a variety of scl;10ols; it's sort of a weird mix with lots of Division II powers," Poulin said. "Any of those schools are going to be concerned with a Big Ten league." 
Whether coaches are in favor of or opposed to joining the Big Ten, most agree that they will have to adapt. 
"They're not huge adjust­ments," Brown said. "We'll have to look at things a little differ­ently. We can't look at it like it's a huge obstacle or like we're 
s·--"":--l'................. ,..., ... _ ............i. ,, 
,SM(}•i'cele:brates··••··Biack,.··Histor
' m@r ' . . . \\:.c;,{[t· <0!!::Ww'· . <> ' '"'JM·· 0? . . . ·.. ,,,,y~ ... •·. .•·· . y 
M.onth wi uei~l.~~D~i¼;i~or~hops 
,.:;.'i:::=:H~t(,<A\::'''·'.'//-.... : · ".·<: 
o/in.f~membr~ 
> < ; ;~!f: ,;\\l)lsllj:ngtpJr,L ·.•.. M'~lcolJn'.){, the r,lerum o(
'prison, RQSa Parl{s and· Di·. 
~r,. ··.. .... .\i . , .·• . :
•·•· tr........·... ·.··.··. .·,. ho month; Sai
.ho§tipg,.<,yonts.. sµch as. \VOrk§ luncheons and lectures to Jff c}Jan~e 41(;pre$entquestio11.t;.•··a•ip Jh~t~till~xiS!pe
.. ..•.. ayer ser'yfce ·.· .· • l Ing,. f'.ebr9ar¥•
to ...·..··..·......·. ·.•. osa Parks' l:)i
•· · · ·.. $t\a¼!t,jll~igl}ligh 'prison.and·•
•. ' • ;, : '·,• =•~-' •v·• 

Want to write for News? Sundays, s p.m., SDH basement 
;,~u:::·~:::_:~---~_:,<•·., ..Aa..,.s;,;1:·..... , .. _-·/·· -_ ·;;: . _ _• 
.-....c;..,..,.;;;···""'·...,., 

,t9il ¼pµgo qn Tutisday, Feb. 9, atnoon. A ... presentatio'n ·will be shown and matters such ~ml id)'l),an:li<;s iR,Hajtiwillbe discussed. This ~ntJs being spf*nsored bf the Office of 
fylµ},th::ijtural Affairs and the Sisters of the Holy 
· rfu'Afi.Mti~h A,~ You Can" (vor~shop will be 
po11sor~ by StudentA~tivities .a.nd,the Office of. ultic~lµrral Affairs at noonon Friday, Feb.. J 2. ·. :t)):e Wed8i:rRoorµ. of theedinji'l.g.· hall; Btyarit· ~11!1 A:o~ flemSOl!. University will, diSC\lS~.Jbe 
nn:ation of coalitions and the strategies in assist~ .. pev~lOJ!JJ!.ytl,t,pf new. ones, Sm.iih wiltal~o 
awse¢ond workshop, "Black Student,<U'~~p.t ()fthe NCWMillenniumt a(5 p.l:ll,'fh(}. $~int Mary's 9ubhouse will li()ld a Black i~.tor;y;Month•WCltkshop entitled· "Building 
hqpd" <>nS~turday, Feb'. 20 from 9 a.m. tq 5 
. .. 

'fu~st;l;;ty, J;.eb,. 23;aa brown bag luncheon ·•· Cl held in tlfo Sµipleton Lounge from U:.30· ;\t;odi:30 p.Jn;.St11~ents can finish the week by·.
•tc.tiiqg/h.ef?.•~!e /Belovl3d .. Jn far.roll 
.(tor:~t.11:Uat?p.m,on Friday, PeK26. A panel · ~ (ollow.,tbe}tllin. Tl~is eventjs spon­He StiJ,deti'fA~tivities ,Board and the 
N¢fertitk , > . . .... J!l<J2e itifottr18:ti<)ll c9ntact1>1ari11 Oropeza 9f. ce of.Multicultural Affairs :at 284°4344 •or . .<1ft~..i:t~ 2!S1•4344.>·•··••·.··· .•...···•·· .. •.. ·.. ..··'Ak
ogatike contributed to this report. · 

In-Store pearanee and CD signing 
@dJ.rnCB~d}ny IE'Y@mflm~ IF©wLPrnfilIPy ~ 9 II[)[)[) a1l1 QQQ 


IC• SOFTWAR 





MEDI. 
SPRING BREAK '99 • PANAMA CITY BEACH, FLORIDA 
ltS all «ood! 
.:,· Sports ~ IHumata~ ~k­
,eac1i (icl. n 
And this Spring Break. _~ 
• 1 
it's all here... ~ 
FAM  114  
~  I I  I  I.Dcarcd next door to  '99 SPRING BREAK  
Spin.nakcr & l.aVcla, the Boardwalk Boch Rcinn is  s3PACKA9GE: •  
Spring Break Hcadqtwtcrs  
for Panama City Beach,  INO.UDES:  
Aorida And as host ro Sfs  Gulf front  
llcach Oub '99, ,ou'll be  accommodations  
imme11ed in dic·ccntcr of all the non stop party action!  FrN passes to Spinnalcer It LaVela  
So pany with diowands,  Ho,t to SP.Orts lilustra~~ Bead,Club '99  

Catch their show f ater at CJieartfand 
Concerned about world hunger? 
Pray with us. 


lnte~~­
m)ght Inii )j'er 
.. .featuring the Celebration Choir.
-
Wednesday Nights 
0MPU5 

MINISTRY 10:00 -10:30pm • Walsh Chapel 
Tuesday, February 2, 1999 The Observer• NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
...........--..----~-------------------------.------------·------·-·-----.­
Clinton proposes $1.7 trillion budget for next year 
AssociatcJ Press some of this overpayment "We have a rare opportunity Sept. 30. But thanks to the lion over 10 years -largely should go back tn the taxpay­that comes along once in a humming economy, he antici­to cut incom!l tax rates, WASIIINGTON ers." said House Speaker blue moon to any group of pates $77 billion more in fed­Clinton prefers aiming that 
Ushering in the 1ww millen­Dennis llasteri of Illinois. Americans," Clinton said as he eral revenue. allowing this money at Medicare, new nium with Urn promiso of lrngr. "Wf! don't want tu invent outlined his plan at the White year's expecttid $79 billion retirement investment J'pcJ11rnl surpluses. Pnisid1rnt programs to spend the surplus House. surplus to swell to $ 11 7 billion accounts and defense and Clinton propos,id on Monday a on," said Sfrnate Budget in 2000. domestic programs. $1.77 trillion 
~----~ Committee Chairman Pote If those numbers se~m sur­"In all my years in Congress, budget for Domenici, H-N.M. real, so did the juxtaposition I've never seen such a 
'IN ALL MY YEARS IN
th11 year Economists caution that a of the day's two chief events: kitchen-sink approach to gov­
CONGRESS, I'VE NEVER
2000 lhat deep, protracted recession As the president was releasing ernment," mockBd tax-cut would but­could erase thn projected SEEN SUCH A KITCHEN-SINK his budget, lawyers from his advocate Hep. Bill Archer, 11­tress Social black ink, which began Senate impeachment tria..l Tcxas, chairman of the llouse

APPROACH TO GOVERN·
Security and abruptly last year with a sur­were in a Mayflower Hotel Ways and Means Committee. bestow bil­plus of $<,9 billion. MENT.' room blpcks away, questioning Treasury Secretary Robert lions on But Clinton exulted that Monica Lewinsky about her Hubin shot back, saying that
Rl:.P. BILL ARCHER
Pvnrything after thrne clticades of' affair with Clinton. reducing the l'Hderal debt is "a 
R-TEX4S
l'rorn troops lo l11achcrs. unremitting dnficits. lhc The impeachment fallout far better use of the surplus 
H1qH1hlica11s who cnntrol mountains of money give could leave both sides eager to than consuming it now with a Congrpss imnwdialf1ly vowed Washington "a special obliga­The partisan positioning build records of legislative tax cut." to rPwork much of it. Staking tion" to address problems underlined how even in a time achievement, or it could make Hather than broadly trim­out this y£iar's political battl,i­gnawing at the country. He of budget plenty, the two par­them eager to draw political ming tax rates, Clinton pro­field, they insisteo that hun­would not only brace lhe gov­ties are largely continuing distinctions as the 2000 elec­posed $36.2 billion in narrow­drf!ds of billions of the $2.41 ern mc n t for the looming familiar appeals to their politi­tions approach. Initial signs ly targeted tax cuts over the trillion in surpluses Clinton rntirnment of 76 million baby cal bases. pointed to confrontation. next five years. They include envisions over the next decade boomnrs, but reduce the $5.6 IJemocrats are rallying Hnpublicans agreed with a new $1 .000 tax credit to should hn rnturnocl to trillion national debt built over behind Social Security and Clinton that most of the sur­help people afford long-term /\nwricans in tax-rate cuts, decades of federal borrowing expanded domestic spending, pluses should be set aside to care for elderly or disabled not used for 1ww spending. -and spend money for scores while Hcpublicans are raising trim the national debt and relatives, and a credit of up to 
"Basic fairness dictates that of othor purposes. their twin banners of tax cuts strengthen Social Security. But $500 for stay-at-home parents of babies under age 1.

But because budget rulos requiro many spending increases to be paid for, Clinton would also raise taxrs by $82 billion through 2004. 
The biggest chunk -$34.5 billion -would come from boosting thn current 24-cents­a-pack cigarette tax to 94 cnnls next year. That would include a new 55-cenl increase, and accelerate an already approved boost lhat hasn't yet taken effect. Congress showed little tastn for higher tobacco taxos last year. 
Clinton's budgot also assumes the fedora! govern­ment will pocket $18.9 billion through 2004 from legal set­tlements the 50 statns have reached with tho tobacco industry. But opposi­tion in Congress and from states makes the fate ot' that proposal questionable as well. 
Most of' the rest of' tlrn lax incrnasns would affect busi­nesses and investors -and have been rnjected bnforn by Congri~ss. 
. t__ rne Thin Rea line . 10 tOi~on RoaO ij:Jo ~M 
ToW~ne~Oa~ ·· Su~~ort Irisn :~;:I~ ~~KetOall 7:0o vs. ~.C. sO~ --~nucK t, cnees . ames, anO more ~:oo ~M Thur Alumni Senior Cl L e ~IZZO'.~ ~JO -0:JO Must LfriOar --Uu Class Dinner ue Cl 
Celebrate 99 Days Until Graduation 99¢ for each event (except b-ball) 





--~-------------------------------------' 


VIEWPOINT 
page 8 -------------------------Tuesday, February 2, 1999 
THE OBSERVER 
NoT!l.E IJAME Ol'FICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Norre Dame, IN 46556 (21 \I) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
l'DITOR•IN-CHTEF Hearhc-r Cock..s MANAGING EDITOR BUSYNESS MANAGCH Brian Rcinchall"'r Kyle Carlin 
AsslSTANT MANAGING EnnnR Hcttth~r MacKcnziit" 

Nrws EDITOR ...... . ... '\>lichd!c Krupa ADVEl!TIS!NG MA~AGER. ... Bryan Lrnz VIEWPOINT Et>rrOR ................. Eduardo Llull An DF.stCN MANAGrR .... ........ Uren 1-lud.1t SrORIS EDITOR ...................... Karhlccn Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGLR .••.•.•.•...••...•••. Michad Bruuillcc SClNl EDITORS•.•...............•.........Sarah Dylag CoNTROU.EII ...................................••Davc Rogpn 
Krisri Klirsch WF.B MMIMSTR,.TOR .............•...•.....Allison Kr1ll,1 SAINT MMv's EDITOR .......M. Shannon Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOK ...............................Pere Cildla PHOTO EDITOR ..........,•• , ..••...•.• Kevin Dalum 
Tht' Observer i.s the i1,JL·pendent 11c-.vsp;1.r,er publisht..'ll hy rhe students <,I the Univcmry of N1,m'. l)amc du (_jC ;ind .S:iinr M.i.f}.'s Coil~. Ir dt)~ noc nc:c:c:1.,:trily rdk·c:t th" policiL-s of Lhc ad.inimstr.ulon of c•dwr uHucuuon. Tht~ t1t~w~ j,. rtpom:d as .u:cur.accly and objt:"c(ivdy a~ pus.-;thk Um.1gnitd c:diwri,•ls. rt'pm,cnt rh~ opinion of the m.t1nrnr of ihe 
~£~~. 
EdilOr-if'laChier, Momaging Ecfaor. Asainani Miin.;,ging hliwr oinU di:p:mnu:nt L'ri.to1s. Coinmcn,Jrii.:11, lctkl'\ .111J column.~ presem rhc-v,cwaa of the :i.urhors. auJ nor uc11;;c~rily rhosc ofTl,c Obi.c,,..i:r. Vi.:wpoiur ~p.ic_.: h JVJ.ihble w .111 mcmbcTh of lhe Nucrc D.1.m.:/S.1in1 fvtiry·~ LOmmunuy a11d w aJI {QJtr.:.. The free cxpn.:.::.~km ofv.i.rymg npimun~ 
~~:~:;
,hrough kncr~+) encour;.ge<l. Contacting The Observer ·~~... 
Ediror-in.Cluef 631-4~42 llusiness Otrice 6}1-5.'113 -----~--.-• M•naging EJiror/A«i<tan< ME 6Jl-4~4l Advmi>1ng 6] l-69~~~s~o ':.-­Ncw,/Phmo (,.11-532.'l Sy,wm 6.) \-08.>9 Spom 6.>1-4543 Fa. 6.l l-C,?27 .~--<,,.· Scene/Sam, Ma.y·, 6Jl-454U Vicwpoim E-.\fail Vic:wpoint. I (!"2nJ.cdu D,y EdJtor/Viewpoim 631 ·5.103 Ad E-Mail ohst:rv!.:r@danvin.cc.n<l.cJu ·=" Office Managrr/Gcncral lnfomwion 631-7471 News E-Mail obscrv.:r, ub::.news. 10"-11 ~l.c:ll u 
maci;clly.con: ·~i 

¦ COLUMN 
Radicals Not the Hea .~: of 'Right to Life' 
In her Inside Column on Monday, Jan. 25, Laura Petelle addressed the issue of' abortion in light of the March for Life held in Washington, D.C., on Jan. 22. Afler cautioning March participants 
Right to Life 

against aligning themselves with radical activists who seek to end abortion by killing doctors and bombing abortion clin­ics, she om~red an insight to those who light for the pro-life cause. Claiming that protests and rosaries will not stop abor­tion, Petelle suggested that we instead examine the issues behind abortion. As a March participant, I would like to offer such an examination. 
The driving force behind abortion is our culture's prevailing, accepted attitude of '"Me first, then ask other questions." Because our society generally follows this selfish manner of handling our own prob­lems, this mentality often shapes our response to the woman facing a crisis pregnancy. We tell her that it is fine to ignore the child alive in her womb in order to protect her own interests. Planned Parenthood and other abortion providers tell her that her emotional and psychological needs will be better served by "terminating her pregnancy. " Not only does this argument support the aforementioned selfish attitude, it even proposes that the woman will benefit from such selfishness. 
Now, in order to overcome this mentali­ty, we need to reach out to the woman who hears one set of options and is pres­sured to exercise them swiftly without considering any others. We need to extend our arms lovingly to her and to her child, explaining that she carries within her a beautiful, uniqun, sacrnd !iii•. She needs to know that her emotional and physical needs can be rnel whilo still lov­ing and protecting this lifo, carrying luir child to term while others show lwr lovn and support. . 
This is not a new idna. as evorv dav hundreds of crisis pregnancy C('l;lt~rs throughout the country n),lCh out lo women. offering counseling. adoption sm·­vices, and financial support for wonwn who choose to keep tlwir childrnn. Tlw Women's Care CcntPr in South Bend is 1111 example of this loving work that no doubt saved the lives of alw111 Iii!' l'ad.s and dangr·rs ol'al)()rlion, a11d .~i\'i11;.; pn•s1~11latio11s pn,inoling absti­1ww1' s11 llwL tlws11 first tmi will nut h!i 1wr,·ss;11-y. 
:\llllrl ;, HI is so preva!Pnt and so (:0111111011 in 11pr s,,ci1•l.r fi1r one simpl1• mason: lfiat till' •,,111.,· srn:il1ly d()(is 1101 support pnig­rn111111111w11 t:1mugl1. Tlwl is why cv!'nls stw:1 as 1111• :-.larch liJr l.ii'l' arn lwlcl -to g;itli,\r SllJJporl for lhos1• 1Yo11w11 who am 111isl-·d 111 IJ!~litWt' that the 1111ly solution to tlwil' 1:r1111plin1Lcd situation is lo haVt! an aiJ11rlion. 011r• ol'thn main 1h,·11ws ol'tlH! 111.11·,•h I lsibl1\ on h11ndn\d:-, (11'sig11s rai·­
many children and the health of 
,THE DRIVING ro: er. BEHIND ABORTION Is
numerous young women. Ct1ntcrs 
OUR CULTURE'S PREVAILING, ACCEPTED 
such as tlmse provide educa­ATTITUDE OF "ME FU: ~T, THEN ASK OTHER 
tion that abortion clinics and the QUESTIONS."' government do not oITer, such as information concerning folal dcvelop­ment, the risks incurred from abortion, and abortion alternatives. 
When an emotionally distraught teenag­er enters an abortion dinic, no one tells her that an abortion may increase her risk for breast cancer and reduce her ability to have children later in lil"e. Thosr) at the clinic tell her that an abortion is a routine surgical procPdurn that will relieve her of the "whopper of' a mislako " at hand. They do not mcntion the incredible physical pain experienced or the possibility of hemorrhaging during I lw procedure. They do not cxµlain lhc suffor­ing that her child will endurn, as studios have shown that heart rates of' unborn children nearly doubln whnn harmful instruments invade the womb. Women do not hear any of this from abortion providers. 
To confront the root ()f the problem many of our mcmbors sprnul tilm• work­ing at crisis pregnancy centers to <'ncour­age life-giving options for prcgmml women, speaking to high school dassns ri1•d ily 11wn and women ,tlikn is that pro­lil'1·r., 11ill rnnlinuc to speuk 11ut until "No rnor•• cl1ildrnn die, and 1111 111ore womr)n IT).·· \>\11• 111a tTh in support ol' pregnant wrn11P11 ns much ,L'i for tlwir !:hildrnn. 
l'r:1yi11g lh1! rosary is also 111' great value. Orn• pra1·s l'ur tlw interccssit,11 or Mary, an t111111•.cl, 11,c11ago woman who surely l"at;cd u d;111111i11g prngnancy bearing ,Jesus Chri,t. Slit~ lovnd llw child within her wo111b f'ro111 the moment slw learrnxl of Ilis 1·011c.-pt.ion, accepting liH' immense rnsponsil>ilily ol' lrnaring 1.lll' Savior of Lhn \\'ur!d \\'ho would cventwtllv suffer more tliw, an>·rnw could possibly.imagine. Sim did ,-;o 1·.ourageously, and in the rosary we pr,1, tlrnl all women faced \\ith such clifli­nill pn•gm111cins may kno\\' the sanw sl.n:11glli and courage that slw did. 
Iii ligl11. ll!'all this, Pntnllc·s column was liigli!.v di,lw,1rlnning, and, indeed. olfon­sh·,· 111 !l111sll ol' us who att11mhid the l\l,11,·l11'1,r l.ifo. l'm·liaps slw ha.<; not read tlw <1u1111•nH1s statenH\nts mtd lettPrs to llw ,,dilor 11Titln11 hy campus pru-lifors in llw past. II" slw had, slw Wllttld rnalizn that w11 routinely, explicitly, and vehemently n•jpcl any form of violence as a tactic to stDp almrtiDn. Those who kill abortionists -and onn might add that they number only a fow -are in no way pro-life. To align Uw attendants of last week's March with a liiw murderous fanatics verges on tlw sland()rous, and certainly perpetuates llH• mythic stereotype that both hinders llw tnw pro-life movement and encour­ages llm few lunatics. The pro-life move­nwnt rncognizes the value the lives of abortionists as of all life and hopes for 
th('ir safoty even while working peacefully for changes in their hearts and minds. 
Yns, we will be careful to whom we lend our voh:ns, as we always have been. We would ask that you do the same. There arP morn ways than one of becoming, howtwclr unwittingly, a voice for the cul­turn of'dnatb. Let us all agree to speak only words of love. In order to end abor­tion, wn must overcome the sellish atti­tudes or society that allow for its prolifera­tion. We must understand, as the pro-life movenrnnt does, that killing doctors is gravely wrong and that their lives are sacrnd. We must educate young people about the value of human life, especially llrn val uc of the pre-born, by explaining the development of the unborn child to those f'acml with a difficult pregnancy. We must promote alternatives to abortion through adoption agencies that find loving homes for babies. Most importantly, we must love women, especially those in cri­sis pregnancies, by teaching them that they ean meet their own needs while still giving birth to their children. Babies are dying, and women are suffering. Both occur becaus11 we do not love either enough. 
John Unn is a member ofND/SMC Right lo Ufe. Calriana Wilkie also contributed lo this column. ND/SMC Right to Life sponsors lhis column which runs every other Tuesdac1. 
71w 11iews (;:rpressed in this column are llwse ofthe authors and not necessarily lhose rff11c Observer. 

• UlJOTE OF rm: DAY 
'only the wise possess 
ideas; the greater part of mankind is pos­sessed by them.' 
-Samuel Taylor Coleridge 
GARRY TRUDEAU

¦ DOONESBURY 




VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, February 2, 1999 -----------------
-----------------------page9 
¦ THE BELLE OF SAINT MARV'S
¦ CAPPY'S CORNER 
¦ COLUMN 
The Gender Line of 
du Lac 
What does N.D. 
/\ long Lime ago, I heard there was originally only nne du Lac on r.umpus. /\s the story goes, there was 
Really Stand for? 
Shopping
an Indiana law which mandated that a lake or a cer­
tain sizr. would havn to he opr.n to the public. Fr. Sorin 
Th11re are many great football traditions at Notro 
Tho f'undamnnl.al dilfornnco between men and womr.n has all1igndly lillnd in the middle of the lake, so our two 
Dame. There arc freshly painted gold lwl11H1ts, push­
nothing to do with gmrns, body parts, or seat up/seat clown smal!r.r Lac's, and thus, our campus, could bn kept 
ups in the student St\Ction allcr oven scon\ !Jund con­
issues. Tho gnndnr Iinn is drawn by thn magnetic strip of the private. 
c11rts bel'orn tlrn game, llm 1wradH i1110 Llw stndium, 
cn,dil card. For 1\xu111pltl, compare llw way in which an avPr­There is 
!!!!!~!!!!!!================== aorl. of' 
agn man and an avnrngn woman announce a shopping trip: apparent­
course. the 
FEMALE: I am ly no his­
grPat.nsl. 
going to the mall. torical 
light song 
MALE: <'?%@, I


Cappy 
Progressive 
in llw

accuracy have to go to the

Mary Beth
1:nu11t.rv.
lo this !&#$ing mall. 
llul myyarn. but Womon shop. 


Student Alliance


Gagnon 
f'avorit,)it docs Wn shop

tradition isseem likP 
Ellis 
ABOUND. It is an 
_________________ some­
_________________ h·ss appar­
ovnnt; it is a 

1int t.han
thing 
social activity. We clnvcr old Fr. Sorin might have done to preserve the 
most. Whnn I hnar the pttblic: a111J11111wN IH•gi11 Uw 
comparn prices, pristine bmtuty of our lak11s. Fr. Sorin (Nruninal 
words ol' I.ho Dndarat.ion ol' Iudept>11tl1•111·1 •. w.i t.nr 
look at and !'or things wn don't nencl. and gnrn~rally make a llehirminism = his name is pronm111c11d the sam!i as 
always fills my eyes. This is truly th,, grcat11st tradition 
clay out 111' asking tlw wonw11 who aro accompanying us if soarin', which impli11s high-flying) was a tremendous 
of all! For in this one act. Notrn Da111,· rrn1wvs lo all 
tlwy nially. truly think ii' lhn skirt appears to incrnasn squarevisionary. Ile would havri realizod that having Jed 
that ours is u cum pus of' f'rnmlotn, or li1itl1 a11d or 
h11tl arna. Mnn. 011 Uw otlrnr hand, vi<1w shopping as a mili­Klamp1itt and kinfolk riding ski-do's across the lake 
C>quality. These truths, '\Ne aro rnmir11!1•(l, an• S<1if'•cvi­
tu1·y mission. Shopping is an individual search-and dnstroy would b1i harmful to the ambience of' the University. 
dent ... that we are endow,icl wilh c,·1·tai11 inali,l1rnbln 
mission. You plan the raid, invadn, accomplish llw mission, I do havn a trun and personal story about our lakes. 
right..., and that all nwn aro 1:roatnd 1'qttal. 
thnn prnil ol'I' as l'asl. as lndmolog'ically and humanly possible. Since the statuln or limitations on stupidity has 
As this University 1111d(•rtakl's tlw tlil'fil:111! d1lcisio11 
So I ligurcd srnnd.hing was up when my boyfrinnd cal1,1d expired, I am Ihm to tell it now. The incident occm-rcd 
regarding non-discriinination, ii. is 111,11 sinr1ln' hopo 
11111 thiswcnkend and 111111111111cPd, unpromptml and apparimt­in 1%4, shortly aft1\r Fr. Sorin lilied in thii pond. 
t.hal the prirwiplm; of' equality pnrvml1• Ih1'SP discus­
ly without tlw involvomrnt of firnarms, that he was taking me /\t Lim urging of the Dean of Urn College of /\rt..., and 
sions. Tim rhetoric I havo nrwount.,wi,d .Jll(I ol,snrvcd 
~hopping. It didn't takn long t.o figurn out what. l.nttnrs. my roommatn and I spent the summer of '64 
continually misses tho point. This is 11ot u cltdiat<i 
--wn are going lo lind you a birthday prns1mt," Kevin said as in South Bell(!. One day, we went to St. Joseph's Lake 
about homosexualitv and its virLLJtlS ;ir1d \'it:(ls. Batlrnr. 
ill' C'in:!Pd llw parking lol in snarch of a spacn, inviting tlw for a swim. I usn tlrn word "swim" loosely, sincc swim­
this is u qtwstion or'Pq11ality. i\ll{I, 1:0111rar~· lo l.lin 
clrivnrs oJ' tlw othnr c:ars, lhrough tlin usn ol' animated hand ming is a skill I forgot to acquire, despite being raised 
argu11w11t most frr.quonl.ly raised, nqllality is not a 
gl'sturt'S, lo 1wrl'onn a physically impossihhi ad upon th,im­only a fow mihis from the Atlantic Ocean Hhat's thll 
"special" right. Equality is tho cun<·Ppl t.h:1 l .lt•sus 
sl'lvns. cold onn, out East). In my hometown of Gloucester, 
preadwd when ho (1spousnd "l11vP 1l1y 1wiglih11r as thy 
"Hul my birthday was thrnP wenks ago." Massachusr\tL.., (the oldest fishing village in America) I 
s,,Jl'." Tlw only "right" I.hat Pqualily IJ!'stm\s is the 
II,\ pull1·d me to llw l'nlrancP. "l lurry up h,if'orn next yPar's may hav1i b1•en tlm only pnrson who could not swim. 
right lo lw frne from discrimi1rntion 
r11111Ps around. I want a bn·ak of a minimum of Plnvnn I thought I was !he only pnrson in America who 
;\ "no" rnt.n this .wok on Lile 11011-disrri1ni11alio11 
1111111ths b111'11n• I haw lo do this again." could not swim, until I rnad about Martin Gurule 
clausP is t.anlamou11t lo a policy ol'i11,·quality. This 01w 
,\II by hilllsPII'. hP lt•d nm lo the thrnshold of'-this is true (Nominal I>1•t1•rminism = his last name sounds like the 
group-01w that is purpol'tl'dly .it 11dds \\'ilh Calholic 
-Hath 8, Body Works. "l'irk," lw said. 'Tit be at the arcadn. stuff lrn should have bem1 eating out of a bowl, while 
doctrine -is held out as a t.argPI 1'111' disrri111inatrn·y 
i\li,d nw tlwrtiin livP minutes." in the slam). tlw death row "escapee" from that East 
trnalnwnt. in omploynwnt.. 11dmissio11s and arr.nss to 
"You'n1 not c:oming in''" Texas prism1. Since Martin forgot to factor "unfamil­
campus activitirs. Ad out against this gn,11p, and no 
IIt! survnyncl tlu• moisl11riz1•rs and body cn•arns and exfoli­iarity with swimming" into his escape plan. I gunss I 
consm11mncn will bn l'ortllrnming. \\'Ital 1111 ,darn1i11g 
al.ing lotions lrnyond. "But this is a girl storn. See'?" lie point­am still ttm only non-swimmer in the Country. 
concPp[I /\ fow pnople hnrP at Not rt• Ila111,· i>l'iinv1l 
l'cl. "Wick,•r liaskPls . .'\JHI air l'rnslrnrrnr, for God's sake." Anyway. I accompanind my roommate, H. Duncan 
thoy havP (or slloulrl havlil lhn µowl'J' lo\\ itl1holcl l'rom 
.. Mow. You'n• lmtwc1'11 nw and tlin candles," I said, shoving McDonald (Nominal Determinism = Attorney), while 
a select rr'w the inalimrnble right or (•q1wli1y. 
him insick hn swam around. Dunc (Nominal Determinism = a life 
The hostility that pnrnmatns this iss111\ is tm-ribly clis­
"It snwlls in lwn•." lw said in a small voice. short on seriousncssl was a vr.ry good swimmer. hav­
c,mnirting, both spiritually and lng;tlly. Till' 1111hridbl 
I pirknd up a testl'r boUIP of' a new scent of body splash. ing bmm raisml in aquatic Flint, Michigan (this is a 
invectives, the pejorativn drnract1:rizalit111s Hild tho 
"\\'hal do vou think or this?" jokn -the only thing Flint is known for is boarded-up 
hateful rhetoric aimed al hornosPxu;1 Is (or any sup­
"Why is ·il purplt•?" lw said. Buick l'lant.'i). 
portm· of' non-discrimination) is rn11.it lidirnl to Uw 
I spritznd sonw on lllY arm, snilfod it. and trincl another on Tlmrc were only a few students swimming that 
Declaration oflndepondencn. This alliludu makes a 
tl1P otlwr hand. "Which do you like better?" I asked, holding afternoon. Dunc swam out to the furthest part or the 
mockery out of' our football trnclilion. 
out my wrists. swimming area. I was able to get out near him by 
When !Im non-dis,..-iminal.ion da11s1• gPts votnd 
IIP b,ml his hnacl towards my arms and pronounced both as walking along the large, algae-covernd, steam pipe. I 
down, as it. most likdy will, out.sid(•rs \\'ill know that 
s111nlli11g, quotn, "like ass." sat down on the algae to soak up a few rays (expres­
Notre Dame dons not adlmrn lo Llw pl'inripl1: of 
.. Did you lind nvPrything all right today'!" askod the cashier sion from the 6!l's). 
inaliPnable rights. Oulsid1irs will lnarn that lhn ba111wr 
aJ'tor I commutml his Stl11t,mc11. Did I mention algae? It's yucky. /\nd slippery. The 
hanging l'rom tho law sdrnol lihrary llwL reads "il'you 
"Y11s," said K,win. plac:ing a bottle of'Cucumber Mnlon nt1xt thing I know, I'm slipping olT the pipe, into mark­
want peace, work fi,r justico," docs 11!ll i11dudo juslicn 
slll)Wllr gnl and Country Apple shampoo on tlm counter. twain dPpth. I was unable to get back on tho huge 
for gays, lnsbians and hisPxuals. /\ml. oulsidPrs \\'ill 
"You know," sill' told him as she picked up tlrn show11r gel,pip,i becaus() it was covercd with algae. 
k11ow thal 1l10 C,int.nr !'or Civil and 1111111;111 lligllls, tlHl 
"this also rnnws in a sparkling body splash. And we'rn having I turnnd around and yell11d "Dunc!" as I dropped 
Center !'or Social Concerns a11d LhP l11stit11Ln l'or 
lwvP a thrnn-l'or-orw s1wrial today if you also purchase an down towards the bottom of the algaP-covered lake 
International Peace Studies ar<' fols,· ii:ons Sl'I forlh to 
n 1011 llloisturizer and f'our-ourn:n liquid body powder." boHom. I bobb1id up a second time and gurgled his 
promoln an aura of' t.olr.wa1H'.1! tlwl d111•s 110I. Lrnly nxist. 
1 lorriliPd. Kevin lookl'd l.o me for translation. nam11 again, while inhaling some a!gae-11avored, 
on this campus. 
"No thank you," I said. yucky water. 
In tho nml, the question is cqualil). Tlw qu,·stion is 
\VP passnd Victoria's Socrnt on thn way to the car. "I need roncl' heard that drowning persons pop up three 
wheth<'r r--;otrn Danw rwdly s1ancls '1,r UH•sn idP,ds o/' 
pantyhose," I announwcl, and kick<\cl him inside. timPs before sinking into Davey Jones' Locker. On my 
libnrty.just.icc1 and conccirr'1. I haw \\nl'kl·d as a11 all.nr­
IIll backed slowly away l'rom a display of' corsoL'i. "Why is it third time. I was able to get only my hand above the 
ncy for the foderal govenmw11t sccu1·i11g tlw c·ivil 
so rnd in lwrn?" waler. In a nanosecond or a glimpse, I saw that Dunc 
rights of prisoners and dna.th row ir1111all's. I l 1avn 
I was alniady in l.lw hosiPry section comparing body was lnisurnly swimming, not paying me any hm~d. I 
workmi t.irHl<issly to uns11rn that tl11! 11ws1 i>nsi1·. rights 
shapers lo thigh-highs. Kevin spent his time attnmpting to was soon to be dead. In algae. 
oftlrnsc peoplo arn prnsnrvnd and proti,clnd. It is not a 
n!main equidistant l'rom all racks of lingerie in the general Before I rcachml the Pearly Gates (or the other 
popular causP. Yet, when askncl IHI\\ I r;111 work to ll l'l!a. I could prarlic:ally !mar his train of' thought by the time I 
sncurn m1ualily fur t.lwsc pn11plc wh" l1;1v1· 1·ol1bl,d,plac11 ... where legions of Southern Cal football refer­
was rnady Lo chnr.k out: "Okay, so I'vn already bought her a ees can be found) I felt a forearm under my chin, 
raped and rnur<lernd, I respond t.11111 ii is my duty. It is 
hirthclay prcsnnt., so it would bn okay if Ijust sat her down drng){ing rne to safety, in the approved lifeguard man­
my duty as a Catholic. It is my duty ,1:, an allorncy. 
1111d went. 'I think we nnnrl to see other people.' No, I couldn't ner. H. Duncan McDonald never looked better. 
And, it is my duty us 1111 /\mi,rirnn c11m,11. 
do that. llow about, 'I nnrnl space.' Or -wait! 'It's not you, I told him that I didn't think he know I was in trou­
You sno, Llu1 justness or a socinty is 1101111nasur.-d by 
it's 11w!' Or... " bln. lie said "I heard you right away, but I figured you 
"'tho way that wo trnat those with wh11ill \\11 :igrnri. but 
IIP stood in line with IIIP as I whipp,~d out my pink charge wurnjoking around. I thought all guys rrom 
rnlher.' by how wn lrnat thos1! wil h 1\ '11111. w1• agrnn, 
rnnl. III\ n~mai1wd 011 my right, the farthest away l'rorn a Gloucester knew how to swim!" 
huL rather, by how we ln1ul ihosi, 1\I,{) i:l1,dli,11gn our 
('.arousol of' thong undnrwnar. And then -"Bras am on sale!" If any of you sham my lack of swimming ability and 
consdrnce, llngnrdloss of our c1111vi1·1 ions, 011r rnligion, 
I noticml happily, handing him my purchases as I disappeared 
our b!\licl's and our projudiccs, tli1-r,· :1m ('.t•1•1itin ·
would like to protect yourself from a watery grave, 
ill llw dirnclion of' tlw ]4B's. IIn stood thorn holding a pack­Coach Denny Stark would bo plP.ased lo teach you. 
irmlimw.ble J'ighl.s. 1:rnod01n l'nHn dis,·.rimi11Hl.ion is !HW 
ag,i of' black thigh-highs. a lloral pair of' Miracle Panties, and 
of thnm. I usk you, what do11s Nol 1·1! I>;i nw rP:1lly stand
Civn him a call at the Holt's Aquatic CPntnr (no algae). 
somo shimmering body lotion until shrieking frantically for I tis lessons could also prove Vlll'Y useful if' you find 
for'? 
nw as tlw rashior llnislwd with the shopper in front of' him. yfllirsclf on Death Bow in a Texas prison. 
I li11islwcl digging through the bras and reclaimod myMcq /'('f//'O,\'I! is an UM r:all(/ida/1· i11 1111' ,\'1,/r1· 
pantyhose. It. was the bnst birthday 1wor. Cappy Gagnon. '66, Coordinator <ifStadium 
Dame' law School Cent.er.for (,'Jui/ 0111/ l/11111w1 Jiiyht.s. Personnel (the Ushers) congratulates the student body 
Sh,• is rtlso a mem/mr 1fthe '/'1•xr1s ,"iiult• !iuf' r,ml a.fiir­
Mary /Jeth /J'lfis is ct. senior at Saint Mary's College who is 
mer Slqf.T ,1lwmey Jill' llw flt1il1!<l .•.;111I1-s I Ji.,tricl <.'u11rl.for the dignified manner (bereft ofoctopus) in which 
111qjuri119 in h'ny/ish wriliny and polilical science. She is cur­tht•y t:/Jnduclt!d therm,elves at the L.S.U. game, while 
Northl'm /Jistrict <d'Texas. 
1'<'11/ly co11sideri11y a proposal under which she wouldjoin the providing tlmnderow; support in the exciting victory. 
Tim l'rogressiue Stuclcnt 1\t/iwll'u s;1011srws .//is col­
!Jiy Ten, t!tcreby yai11i11g increased regional exposure, but los­Cappy's column usually appears every other Mor1day. 
wwz which nms 1:11ery olltcr 'fiH·.wlriy. 
i11y lier NIJC broadcm,liny contract in the process. lier column 'f'lw views expressed in this column are those ofthe 
1he ,,im11s e.tpmssetl i11 this m/1111111 w·,· //111. ·e of'tlw 
n111s etwry ot!ter Ttw.wlay. author and not necessarily those of11ie Observer. 
author and not necessarily lhosu <//"/'lie nhs1•,"1•er. 
'/'he views e.,pressed in this column are those ofthe author UII(/ not necessarily lhose ofThe Observer. 

l 111 

---------------Tuesday, February 2, 1999
OBSERVER 

Present and prospective resident 



By LOUBEL CRUZ 
Ass,stam Scene Editor 
Most people on campus understand the academic 
and social expectations that come with being a 
Notre Dame student -studying until dawn, serv­
ing on student government or playing a varsity 
sport, just to name a few. 
To those expectations add the pressure to coun­sel fellow residents and build a sense of peace, comfort and security in your dorm. Does it sound impossible to be that student? 
Resident Assistants have to meet all of these expectations and more in their duties. But each one has the desire to, in some way, make their dorm and the people living there better just because they were an R.A. 
"The role of the R.A. covers so many things," said Mike Ferguson, H.A. of Knott Hall. "It is being there for the freshman who is just not quite adjust­ing yet to being a leader in your section." 
'THE ROLE OF THE R.A. IS AS A MINISTER, 
ARBITRATOR, DISCIPLINARIAN AND FRIEND ••• BUT MOST IMPORTANT IS BEING AVAILABLE TO 
LISTEN AND MEET THE NEEDS OF YOUR OWN SEC­
TION.' 
DIANE SABOL 
RES!DENT ASSISTANT, BADIN HALL 
"You are always on duty in this respect, because your whole section looks at you as a role model," he added. 
Here at Notre Dame. residence hall living is one of the most important aspect of campus life. The dorm is not only the place where a student can go between classes or sleep, but it is also a second home to the student -the community where he/she spends most of his/her time. 
The resident assistant, then, plays a signit1cant 
role in maintaining the community within the 
dorm. He/she acts as a leader to all the students in 
the dorm and also as a mentor. There are current­
pus. 
"The role of the R.A. is as a minister, arbitrator, disciplinarian and friend -it is a multi-faceted job," said Diane Sabol, R.A. of Badin Hall. "But most important is being available to listen and meet the needs of your own section." 
To be an R.A .. a student must complete an appli­
cation from Student Affairs. This application 
includes a statement of philosophy and three let­
ters of recommendation. 
All R.A.s participate in pre-service training. hall staff orientation and in-service activities. It is also mandatory for all R.A.s to complete the American Red Cross or American Heart Association Standard. First Aid and CPR classes before the start of the new school year. Each H.A. receives free room and board from the university for their services. 
"l decided to apply to be an R.A. at the beginning 
of' last year because my last two R.A.'s were such a 
big influence to me and they made the position 
seem fun and they were great role models," said 
Ferguson. 
Rut one of the main, distinct responsibilities of a resident assistant is their requirement to enforce University policy. R.A.s accept that responsibility, but say that it certainly is one of the most difficu"lt parts of their job. 
"I think the hardest thing to deal with as R.A. are 
parties because of the rules broken. The people 
can be very rude and disrespectful," said 
Ferguson. 
Most R.A. 's are "on duty" twice a week, meaning 
they must stay in 11l1' dorlll. 111.ik1 11l,·111sl'IVPS available lo UH1 rosid<rnts o111d 1•11i111·1 <' il11tl1 durm and university r11!0s. i\l.111\ Ill' tll1·111 :1r,• ;ilso 011 duty during SYHs. formals and ollH'.1· d11rn1 artivi­ties. 
But, as an H.1\., the studonls 11P1•tl 11, lw pn1parnd to serve their dorms and tile 1•i,sid,•111.,. ,il a11y givl\11·time: whether it ho silting in Jill' •·111,·rg1•11c.,· mom after a flag football auid(•11t 111· s1.11\·i11g 11p until five in tlrn morning advising a 'inl'111h1•r Ill' lhl'ir dorm. · "The hardest aspoct or being an 11..\. is hala11ci11g time between br.ing on dut.1. st11cli,•s and 1•1l'ry­thing else," said Sabol. "Thl'1·,• ar,• ,1 lot 111' Ll1ings that come up on your schl\clul,· and .11J11 ll,11·11 to IH' flexible." But enforcing tlrn rulc'.S is 11111 ti!,• 011ly r11111·1•r11 for R.A.s. "Many people think tlH! ll .\.s ari, just ll1t!r1• !'or disciplinary reasons. but I illuk at it as nwrP 111' a counseling rolo," said 1:1\rguson. 'Tirsl u1J(I l'orc!­most, I believe that W<! must h1· f'ri1·1Hls .i11d lc!aders to the people in lhl' s,•ction." "The best part of' being an IL.\. is I.ii!' i11L!'rarLion with all the people in \lw durm a11d hl'ill)'; ab\P to help when llwy need Lu Lalk." said S,il-111. Many resident assistants t,•11d lll 1;1•111lop <"iosn relationships with tlw wom,•1i/11ll'11 , r th,•ir d1Jr111 through their counsc1li11g a11d adl'isi11g. "I love my section. Th1:y li11v11 IH\1·11 a l1kssing because of their enthusias111 and 11,<'ir c1l11sla11l happiness," said Ferguson. "I 1v,111id s,1.v 1 lrnve a good relationship with LhP gu_1·s ol' 111_1 cl1)J'lll. I havn Rnown many of them l"or y1\ars. Sil I 11111 the sanw old Mike to tlwm." This !"ri11nclly rP!ationship is 11s1H•1·i;1lly ll'lll' in smaller resid,,nce halls with limn p1Jpul,11i11ns. "l believe I have a clos,• rPlatio11,llip 11·it\1 tlH\ girls !in Badini becaus11 we arl' a srn,1 I d11r111 ,111d it. makes it easier to mePL and k11011 1wopl1•," said Sabol. Applications for rnsid 1\11 l a ssista11 ls l'o r 1lw I<J<JIJ­2000 academic year wen\ rlu11 this ,Jasl .January 
'BEING AN R.A. IS A CHA:\'CF TO INTERACT 
WJTH ALL THE RESIDENTS ( >F ':'HE DORM, 
TRYING TO BUILD ON THEIR RESIDEIV'E HALL 
EXPERIENCES, WHILE ALSO TRYIN(; ·1 , BUILD ON 

THE COMMUNITY ATMOSHPERE IN Tl 11: DOl{M.' 
\'r l1.\ (;Iii .'(,';ti\' 
RESIDENT A.1;s1sr,1tYr. 1 \1'!'1.1c:.u r. So111N Iftu 
and candidates are hoping l.11 l1!,Hl a1,d guidP I.heir dorms next year. "My dorm sl11•ltPrs rny l'ril'ncls. 111,v i:liap1d and myself coml'ortably," said Farluy I !all r1\sid11nl and 
R.A. applicanl Miclwlk Mn11d11zn. "I want to giV(! back to my dorm and 1rncour;1gc pa1~li1·ipatio11 and relationship-building in its rnsidont.s." 
"I am applying to lw an It.;\. b1!caus1! l fo11l thn position offers a uniqtw opportu11it.y l.11 l'ully partic­ipate in the dorm," said Surin llall r1:sicl!111t Kl\vin Grugan. "It is a cha11c1\ lo i11t.n1·a1:1 with all t.lw rPsi­dents of llrn dorm, trying Lu buiid un llwir r1isi­dence hall living cxpcrion1:11s. whil,: also trying to build on the community almosplinr1: in LIHi dorlll." 
Shaunti Althoff, all.A. appli,·.ant l'r11111 Walsh llall believes that one of tho rolns of" ,1 ro;;idl'11l assis­tant is to "steer residents lowanl a \wal1hy lifostyle within an academic onviro111111·11l." 
"The R.A. is ofton tho first 1.0 r1'.spond to a rosi­dent's needs whether m11dind. 1im11tional or spiri­tual," said Althoff. 
A number or resident assistant applicants are already very involved in their dorms -Althoff, (;rugan and Pasquerilla East resident Molly O'Hourke am their Hall Presidents, and Mendoza serves as Senator. They would like to carry on their service to the dorm as R.A. 
"I think I have tried to fully immerse myself in the dorm and its activities, which I believe is important for an !LA. to have such experiences," said Grugan. 
"I am one of' P.E.'s hall presidents this year and would like to continue my leadership role in the dorm," said O'Hourke. "I hope I will get the chance lo know some of the residents better and strength­on l"riendships that I alrnady have." 
Many of' the resident assistant candidates have wanted lo be an ILA. since their first year at Notre l)anrn. 
"!king an H.A. was something I have wanted to do since my freshman year," said O'Hourke. "I always thought iL was a great way to stay involved wilh tlw dorm." 
"I wanted to be an fl.A. since my first year," said Mondoza. "The rnle of H.A. fits my personality type -l'rinnd, advisor, resource and authority." 
Whether they are present or prospective resi­d(:11ts assistants, students agree that they can loam and teach through their experience as R.A. 
"I hopo that Lim residents in my hall will learn liow important community living is here at Notre IJamn," said O'Bourke. 
"I hopo that residents will learn to get involved in their interests and enjoy the friendships that are born here lat Notre Dame],'' said Mendoza. 
As an ILA. one also develops an appreciation for how a dorm runs smoothly as a hall and home. 
"I havo learirnd that it is not as easy as it looks," said Sabol. "I realize now how much of a role R.A.s play b(ihind the scenes to make the dorm a stronger community." 

p 
s 

Ol~SERVER ·-------------page 11 
¦ UNIVERSITY COUNSELING CENTER 



Racial Healing Begins With You 

Spcci,1I lu [ lie Ol,.,cr,ct 

"Why do llw~ ;ilw;iys sit 1.ogi•l.lrnr in I.he dining h1dl?" 
"It's a ll!w:k tlwn;.;, ~fill wouldn't understand." 
Com1ut•11! s;(id t•i .\frit·an-,\11111rk.an nmles on rnmpus ... "You must be a. football player." 
"Whv du vo,1 all\a ~s t.rv to t.ulk ,tml ad so Whit(!'!" 
"Ymi know, I n•al!y d1111't. sc11 you as Muxican-Amnrica.n." 
"I'm tin•d or ulwa.vs hon ring about racism." 
"I lavn I go\ a g11od racial ,joke 1hr you," 
Wii.lwttl 11 drn1ht, y1111'w oii.lwr 111t1d(i 11r ht\Hrd onn of those staL(~ments or been n.sklid 0110 of llm,;1\ 11u1:s1.it111s. Tim \'11rnmon thread li>r ull lho ahovn stuu';1rnmts and. questions is that all are basnl on limil1•d inli,rnrntio11 and sttln•otypical generalizations about race. IJnfortunately, it's thmm typt'S iii' g1,11l'ralizn1.ions about racn lhai lmui to radal slurs or jokes being made, racist literuturn b1!i11~ di,Hrilrnt,•d and physical confrontation.:; occurring hE>tween different racial groups. Ci\'1!11 lb:1t rnH• o!" 1lw traditions ut Notre Dame is that of providing a familial atmos­phorn for sl ud.-11ts, l".1rnhy 11nd st1\ll', it's time that we all tuke q,n active stance to ma.k(~ s,m, that all raf"ial g-roups 1111 1his l"ampus !'l'el indwlc,d in thl' Notre Da1no family. HMling and har­mony lmt\\oc:11 Uw rar,is lwgins with you, 
So you ;1sk. why slinuld I make a eon11nitment to be an ally fur racialharnmny? 
Wl11•11 y1111 IH•1·11111p w1 ally l'tn· rndal harmony, you hnvn tho opportunity to: gain grMter sf'lf:.awnn•11Pss; gai11 grnat<·r awarenoss of others; clnvclop new friendships; develop better i11lurp1•rso1Hd skills: lwrnnw lwttl•r abl!i lo challeng,1 sten'otypes and prejudices; promote mo1•p 1111il) IJPl.11H•11 r,wial grnups and bm:ouHi bet!Pr 11q11ipped to live in a multiculturnl world. In 01 lwr ,wrds, ~·Du ltavr' the opportunity to grow both emotionally and intollectually. Thmuglt Lliis grnwth, you comribute to the development of a society where all races are val• w,d and .ippn·t·ia!Pcl. 
Om, slt)p i11 huildi11g 1lw bridge toward mcial lmnnon,v and ttmring down the walls of l'acism is tluu ol' i11t1 ·1T,tdal rnmmu11ic.ation. While we all know that it is sometimes emotion• ally dillirnl! w1d l'isk, l11 sp1•,1k candidly. op,•nly and hunestly about mce, it is only through ll1is t:qw or di,ilog111• 1l\;1\ Wll nn, «bil, lo bnr.nm<' morn aw«rn, sm1sitlve imd knowl,)dgoc1.blo about <',wit 1111J1•r. U1nn LllaL lho topic: ol'raco can Im a sensitive and emotional area, it's important 111 hYt'P ,1 \'PW pointers in mind: 
• 
Do u.s1 · "'I" ..,1,;1 I.Pi m•11ls. 

• 
Do lis1,•11 with rPspcrt. 



• l>o r(•s!al1· \\'hat you've• 1l(•anl about a person's experience. 
• 
Do allow qw,stions. 110 mat.I.Pr how trivial llwy may soom to you. 

• 
Do ci111·11urngn 1'.!nl"ilication and olabora.lion by asking for tlxarnp!Hs. 


• Don't Iry to d1~b;1L1• 1ir downplay a person's exporim1c1). 
• Don't hlanin ll JH•rson f"or the sins of l.h1)ir racial group. Now !Ital you ltm1, sui1m p11i11Lors for communicating about racial issues. herH are some questions 111 ash: otlH•rs and yoursrlf'. With <'ach question. fill in the blank with a racial group. 
\-\'111•11 y, 1u lwar Ilw !Pnll ..., \\'hat thoughts or images regarding their behaviors. atti­t.1Hl1)s. rn11I lifrslyli·s ro1111) l.o mind? Wh,11. do you admiw or rPsp~\Ct about __-·_? What oxpe• rit-11l"l:S 1!:11" .rnu lwd that impn1·1 your prl'sent foelings toward __'? How have significant otllcws ill ,111ir Jjj;, ii illi1,•m:1id vour allitudes about ·. '! If vou haven't had much contact with ·. what prP, 1•11ts tlii~ fr11111 hap1wning'! Wllf'n you hav1-1 a racial prejudicial thought or hear a rnd,d pr(•_iudidal n•ll\,lrk, how do you handle it'! What lms been your experienc<~ witl1 rads111'! \Vhat 11ill vou do todnv t.o incrC'ase vow· racial awareness? 
Nm,1 ih:it y1111\1• 111;1d,:tlw <·0111mi\nwrll lu lwco;no ,tn a.lly for radal healing and harmony. 
lwn, an· s,,1rn· s11gg,.:-.tirn1s li1r incrt'.asing your racial awaronoss, sensitivity and knowhidg,i. •Ci,!dir,11\! :1 n1111li1·uh.\1l'al holiduv •Visit.in 1i11J11i1· ur1 galh•r.v 01· nn;sc-u111 
• 
Voli11111·,·r ,11 ;i s<'11rn,! or ,1gmu:y with u racially div(~rsn population 

• 
r\Uc•mi a drnrf"i1 ill" s_rnagogun that has a divnrso cong-regation 

• 
Visit vi >11r Ollii·,, 111" ?I lultit'ulturnl Student Affairs • f.p;:u·i"1 .:1 !(1n 1i~11 Lt11guagii 

• 
Jl1)ad ,1 IJoi,k l,_1· ,111 auth11r who is rndally dilforPnt from you 

• 
l11\°it1• :i l"ri,·nd 111 lu1wll who is rnrially diff('rent from you 


• 
Taki• a l'liil11ral diu•rsily rnurSl! 

• 
c;o to ,111 ('tlrnic r,•sl.aurnnf. 



• 
Watch a n1, ,1·i,· or play with racially diverso actresses/actors 

• 
l.isil'll 111 11111sic I>\· artists who am rucially dilfonmt fhim you 


• .loin ,1 club rn111111il.it•d io divm·silv isswis 
• 
Ilaw clial SPS'-ions !"IJIH'nrniug diversity issuns 

• 
Taki' ltll ildiVl' SlilllCI\ against prqjudice and racism 


I !1iali11g. liarn1011:,-and unil.y lidwmm nu:ial groupti occur as we interact more with and b'1t:ornn IJ, ,1 ll'r (>d1wn11•d nhout one anotlwr. lt's a <·auso !'or celebration when we aro willing to lake risks n'g;irdi11g t ,11r multirullHrul growth hy galninK more sensitivity, awareness and kw1\\ lt•dg,, ;1 lio111 : I11· his!orv. 1·,ilw•s, iixporiMcos imd Jifi:styles of different riicial groups. Challo11g1• \ om:wl\ LP unlo,·.k yonr tmdless 1:apa.dty ltu· racial aw..m,n,~ss. It's up to you tt) do y11ur parI i1 ,· crnati 11g a sorini.y where t.lwrn is ).,fft.mter understanding and awareness between di!fornnt r:Jl'i11I gr, ups. 
11· you ar1· i111.,•rr·--.t,·d in g-ai11i11g-1110m awarrnwss about rndal. issues in a confidential and SUflJH11'Liv1, ,:11111·01 nw111. tho University Counseling C1mtor is offering n "11a~e Relations: Wh11t 's \oi 1r \ il'11 ' .. gniup . .:\!so, oth1ir multicultural groups offered at the University Ctll111s!'li11.!,; ,:.. 111,•r i1H-l11d(' llw ''African-American Support Group" and "Prism: Support Group fo1· Cay. I.1,:-;bi;111. I: ls(:-;ual amt Qunstinning StudcnL'l." To find out more information about tliesP gro1:1 1s. 1·11111 wt till' Unin·rsity Counseling Center at 631-7336. 
....
71w i11ll'llt 1;{I/,i.: ,:(•ri1•s ffurticl,is is not lo proride t:oun.•wllng but to provide inJ'onnation ah(/11/ a n,riel!f ,{ ,,, 11/((/ heu/lh topi<:,;. To seek help with your individual concerns, please co11lw-J 1/i, · l.'iii1:1·r,i1_111:111wsl'/i11y <:enti;r at 6J1-7.'::J6 lo sched«le. an appointment, For more i11.fi11·11111/i,,1, ,111 r/r,. 1,,,1ic. uisil llw Se(/'f folp se<:lion ,four wi'l» p11ge al hllp:l/11•11•11.11(/,('c/1 /. 1r<·t.:. 
'l'l111 ni1•w.,· ,. 1·r1r1 •,;.•wd i11 /.hi.., urlicli-: art1 those oft.lw cwlhors. not neces..(;arily those ofthe ()/)i-;1'1'!1('/" 

Tuesday, February 2, 1999 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
A Formal Presentation Concerning the Non-Discrimination Clause 
Tuesdav, Februarv 2, 1:00 p.m., Washington Hall 
Featuring: 

Phil Donahue 
and other speakers. One Hour in Length. Listen to your conscience and your heart. Help influence the Board of Trustees Decision. 

Show your support for Equality within the Notre Dame Community. "For the times, they are a-changin'." 
Sponsored by: The Notre Dame College Democrats, PSA, AIDS Awareness, the Not So Royal Shakespeare Co. Advertisement paid for by: The Notre Dame College Democrats 
The Observer• SPORTS Tuesday, February 2, 1999 
Swint 
Michigan moot with three individual medley at tr.am sea­Michigan's Jenny Chrisman straight victories, starting son-bc st times. She also and Shannon Shakespnare with a season-best time in the placed second in the 500 dominated the meet, each Track ­
continued from page 20 
to tlw suuson. 
"I was pleased with how our girls swam," W1•athnrs said. "W<i ·ve had u rnally good year so 1':tr and wl''re looking for­ward lo an 1\xciling c:onclusion to tlrn year with Big East and NCAA Championships." 
T!w Irish, who had won scvP11 straight dual rnents prior to Saturday, opc11nd the 
400°yard nrndley relay. 
Frnshmun !leather Mattingly and sophomore Kristin Van Sau11 led tlrn Irish in scoring, both tallying two individual wins. Mattingly won both div­ing ,wonts against a surpris­ingly strong Michigan squad. She has won all but thrn11 div­ing events in dual-meet action. 
Van Saun won both the 1,000 f'ninstylf' and the 400 freestyle. 
i\lso scoring a nine-point win for the Irish was co-cap­tain Liz Barger. lier 2:03.35 in tlrn 200-yard bulterf'ly was over three seconds faster than her rrnarest compr.titor. 
Shannon Suddarth led tcam­m ates Allison Lloyd and Kathlnen Himkus into an Irish sweep of thn 200-yard brcast­strok e with a Loam season­best 2:20.26. 
winning three individual events. 
The Irish women now pre­pare !'or the Big East Championships to bn hold Feb. 25-27, and the NC/\A Championships which take placo on March 18-20. 
'Tm pleased with wlrnrn we arr.," Weathers said. "W11'rc going to have a big conclusion to the season, and we'rn rnally looking l'orward to that." 
¦ BASKETBALL 
Murphy, Riley earn Big East awards 
Freshman for­ward honored for sixth time 
Special to the Ohscrwr 
llnivnrsity of' Notre Damn frnshman Troy Murphy (Morristown, N..l.l was named tlw Big l·:ast Co11fi1rC'11cl' rookiC' ol' Lim wePk !'or Llw sixth time this seaso11 i<lr his pt!rfc,rmam:es 
in thn Irish ganH's owr Boslon CollHg1• and l'rovidnnce last 
Wl't\k. 
1lti rncorded doubln-doublcs in both or those gamns as Im scornd 17 points and 11 nibounds vs. Boston College last WNlrwsday and had 2(1 points and 12 rnbounds in lhe Irish win ovnr Providl!nf:e on Saturday. 
Murphy's six hon()rs are tied for second in confornnce history for the rookin or llrn week award, whilt• Allen Iverson of G1iorgntown holds the Big East record for being name rookie of lhe w1iek tlrn most timns with ni111• in 1994-95. Lawrence Mot1rn of Syacusc was also namNI rooki<' of' th1~ WPek six times in 1991-92. 
Murphy rnturned to the Notrn Damn linnup for the Boston College ganrn after missing the thrne previous contnsts due to a sprained ankle sulfornd in prac­tice on .Ian. 14. 
Murphy leads Notre Dame in scoring at 18.5 points por game and in rebounding at 9.2 per game. 
continued from page 20 
mancns from Dorn DeBartolo in the throwing 1wnnts and Natalin llallc1tt in the pole vault. DcBartolo sot II record in thn weight throw of' 54 l'ont, 8-3/4 indrns, on the way to a second place finish. 
"I surprisnd mysnlf," DnBartolo admitted. "/\II wnc1k I was having lousy practicns, then I l'.H. by two foot. It was a long limn coming; I had b11e11 stuck in a rut the last two or thrnn wnnks." 
Natalin llallett·s season knnps getting bnttnr as w,dl. ll11r marks havn improved from a "no height" perl'or­mancn at Purduo, to a 9-f'net, 6-1/4 inclrns mark in Mirhigan. llallntt cont.i111wd to improve this wneknnd with a 1().foot vault that claimnd third placn honors l'or tlrn f'rnshman. Whiln admitting her third placn finish lnf'l room l'or improvnmnnt. llall11tt. admitt11d f'nnling morn conf'idnnt in hnr first homci pnrformanc11. 
"It. was fun. Its nic1i to l111vl' vour l'rinnds out llwrn," IlalluU said. 
Hounding out the worncu's highlights was a gritty pnrfor­rn an ce by Patty Hil'-<', who clainrnd lirst-placn l'inishns in thn miln and :~.000-mnter racns. Conrwlly was proud of' tlw squad saying, "Our kids compnted really wnll; wn had a lot mor11 balancn than we expected." 
Connelly attributns thn womcrn's rnvcmgn victory ovnr IU to the balanced perl'or­mancn. 
"Wn scornd just about 1w1!ry­wlrnre -in tho jumps and dis­tance events. We got a lot morn points than wn expectnd across the board actually," Conrrnlly said. Connc~lly hopes that both thn mon's and women's squad will conlinu11 with tlrnir balancod pnrf'or­mance throughout tlrn week as they host Urn anticipatnd Meyo Invitational this w11ekm1d. 
The mewl is expected to be a thriller, as it will provide Fighting Irish athletes with their last opportunity to pcr­l'orm bnforn a homo crowd before tlrn Big East Championships in New York. 


Riley's 41 good enough to earn Player of Week 
Special to the Observer 
Sophomore contnr Buth Hiley (Macy, Ind.) was named the Big East Player or tho Week for tlw third time this season af'tnr averaging :rn.5 points, 10.0 rebounds and 4.0 blockod shots in Notre Dame's two wins last w1wk al Svracuse and Providence. 
·Against tlrn Friars in a 97­59 victory, Hiley scorncl a career-high and Notre Dame school-record 41 points as she connected on 18-ol'-22 field goals f'rom the [ield. 
The 18 field goals also set a new Irish single-game mark. She also recorded her eighth double-double of the season in grabbing 13 rebounds. 
Hiley's previous carnflr-best was 36 points which she set 
against  Providence  on  
January 10.  
In  the  94-61  win  at  
Syracuse,  she  netted  20  

points and grabbed sflven rebounds. Hiley shot 77.1 per­cent from the field in two games. 
Notre Dame has won eight straight and is off to its best start in school history with a 17-2 record. 
Currently, the Irish are sixth (tying an all-lime high) in this weflk's Associated Press ranking. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame oHice, 024 Somh Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be pre\1aid. 
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the rig 11 ro edit all classifieds for conrent without issuing refunds. 
SPRING BREAK 99!  ADOPT:Help us make our family  HOUSE OR ROOMS AVAIL  HAPPY GROUNDHOG DAYl!!ll!I  
Cancun ' Nassau • Jamaica NOTICES Travel Free and make lots of  complete.Let us give your newborn a loving.happy home and a wonder- FOR RENT  NOW .272-6551  I mean, ii is the greatest holiday  
Cashffop reps are offered on-site  ful future.  House for Rent.  EVER.  
Spring Break Bahamas Party staff jobs.All-Inclusive  Expenses paid.  HOUSE FOR RENT.  Two Blocks from campus.  
Cruise!SNights $279I1ncludes Deals.Special Discounts up to $100  Please call Lucille and Michael 1 ·  TWO BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS.  Available in June for Summer.  they have their own language.  
Meals & Free Parties!Awasome per person.Lowest price  600-466-9311  4-5 BR. Available June for  August for fall. Dishwasher,  
Beaches,Nightlife!Departs From Guaranteed.Call now for details!  Summer, August for Fall.  Washer/Dryer, lull basement, large  I'm not obsessive or anything.  
Florida!Cancun &Jamaica $3991 www,class(ravel.com  Need child care for my 6 year old  Dishwasher, Washer/Dryer, Full  backyard, and off street parking.  
springbreaktravel.com 800/838-6411  daughter 4PM-5:30PM Monday thru  Basement, Large Backyard and Off  MONITORED SECURITY SYSTEM  diane and amanda .... How bout that  
Thursday.  Street Parking. MONITORED  INCLUDED!! KITCHEN BEING  ritalin?  
1·800-678-6388 CRUISE SHIP EMPLOYMENT  Good pay.  SECURITY SYSTEM INCLUDED.  REMODELED THIS SPRING! CAIi  
Workers earn up to  Need car.  CAIi 289-4712.  289-4712  harry, here is your classified. Love,  
Spring Break Panama City $2,000+/month (wltips &bane•  Call Lisa 277-8564 alter 6PM.  heather  
$129!Boardwalk Room w/Kilchen fits).World Travel!Land-Tour Jobs up Next To Clubs!7 Parties-Free to $5,000-$7,000/summer.Ask us  VOLUNTEERS NEEDED  WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6 BEDROOM STARTING $165  FOR SALE  and nick ... when are we going to  
Drinks!Day1ona $149!South Beach howl  The Early Childhood Developmen,  MONTH/PERSON  spend that 20 dollars?  
$129/Cocoa Beach $149! 517-336-4235 Ext.C55842  Center,located at Saint Mary's  232-2595  NEW Rates Phone Cards  
springbreaktravet.com  College and the Universily of Notre  282 min.$20 call 256-4805  I'm waiting ...  
Piano Trumpet Sax Guitar & Bass  Dame,is looking for volunteers who  NICE HOMES FOR NEXT  
1-800-678•6386 Players tor Shenanigans Band-for ILOST & FOUND I3 big shows and optional spring break tour. Call Meg at 4-2573.  enjoy young children.If you would be interested in spending 2 hours a week reading children's books.building with blocks.and  SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND 8,6,4,3,BEDROOM 2773097 '99-'00 LOADED!6 Bedrm. $800  89 Ford Probe GT (made by Mazda) $1600, call 634 4303.  Apparently no one took interest in our paranormal society last week so we're gonna give it another try. II you are Interested call Mau or  - 
singing songs with children.  mo. 273-0482/234-3831  Need a valentine gilt? Awesome  Mall al 1832 or 1835. This is for  
LOST: SUMMER CAMP  hamster cage with bedding and  real.  
gold tennis bracelet, please call OPPORTUNITIES  please call Cindy Hestad at 284­ 5 or 6 Bed Rm Furnished House  food for sale. Call Monica and  
Ana Sosa @634·2819 Northern Minnesota coed children's  4693 (ECDE-SMC) or Thayer  333 N. Hill St. Sec Syst .. Wash/Dry  Emily @ 243-1828  has anyone seen Iha Goldbergs? I  
camp seeks enthusiastic and ded1­ Kramer at 631-3344  233-9947  hear Mr. and Mrs. are in town.  
cated counselors who enjoy work-WANTED ing with kids outdoors Instructors  (ECDC-ND).Please Join our Jun tilled clays.  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  TICKETS  Is anyone selling those ND T- 
needed in  219-291-7153  shirts? the king of schools ones? If  
SALES & MARKETING Archery,Biking,Boardsailing,Canoei  SPRING BREAK BEACHES  BOB DYLAN 1st. 5 ROWS  so give me a call at 2015.  
INTERNSHIPS ng,Crafls,Diving.Fishing,Lifeguards.  Daytona.Panama  3 BDRM. DUPLEX, REMODELED,  WWF. RINGSIDE 1st. 10 rows  
Universlly Directories oflers Sa11ing,Snorkeling,Sw1mming,Tenni  City .Padre, Miami ,Cancun.Jamaica,  501EDDY ST.  272-7233.  Photo Joe is so slowi  
pa1d.full-t1me summer sales and s,Trip Leaders  Bahamas.etc.Best  1 Ml. FROM CAMPUS.APPL!­ 
marketing internships.open to all Waterskiing.& Woodshop.Rep in  hotels.prices.parties  ANCES, W/D. f73·8332  somebody help me out here  
disciplines.Collage credit avail-LaFortune Student Center 2/8 at able Training program.Great table across from elevators from  Browse www.icpt.com.  5 & 6 BDRM HOMES. 19S9/2000 ,  PERSONAL  crazy, double monst for lunch?  
resume booster! 1 (800)743-5556 or 10-3 Contact Camp Foley al 218·  Reps earn cash.free !rips.Call Inter- SUMMER OR NOW.NEAR CAM- wake me up!  
www.universityd1rectori0s.com 543-6161 or  PUS.FURN.GILLIS PROPER·  Do you ever feel like the world is  
http://www.campfoley.com  Campus 800-327-6013  TIES.2726551  out to get you?  thats all folks  

~..:;_ge:l4:_·--~~·--_---_··~~~------~~~T-h.:..::..e=Ob:se:rv=-er--=·P~.::...:'.A=-=ID=--=-=A=--:..DVERTISEME~N-T-~ -----Tuesday, February 2, 1999 

+ Campus Ministry This Week + 
" 
-
.,., 







OFFICE OF 
CAMPUS MINISTRY 
103 Hesburgh Library: 631-7800 112 Badin Hall: 
631-5242 Basilica Offices: 631-8463 Web Page: http://www.nd.edu/ ~ministry 
Friday-Saturday, February 5-6, St. Joe Hall 
Senior Transition Retreat 
Co-sponsored with the Center for Social Concerns 
Friday-Saturday, February 5-6, Fatima Retreat Center 

Marriage Preparation Retreat 
Saturday1 February 6, Moreau Seminary 

RCIA Retreat 
Friday-Sunday, February 5-7, Pilsen (in Chicago) 
Encuentro Chicago Retreat 
Co-sponsored with the Center for Social Concerns 
Sunday, February 7, St. Joe Hall 

Freshman Team #21 Retreat 
Exposition of the Blessed Sacrament 
Monday, 11:30 pm until Tuesday, 10:00 pm, St. Paul's Chapel, Fisher Hall Fridays, 12:00 noon until 4:45 pm, Lady Chapel, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 

Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
Wednesdays, 10:00-10:30 pm, Walsh Hall A relaxed and informal night prayer led by students of various Christian faith traditions, with a candlelight atmosphere and fo­cus on the word, prayer and music. Music led by the Celebration Choir, rehearsals before the Prayer Service at 8:30 pm. All are welcome! 

University Village Volunteers 
Campus Ministry is looking for two students who are interested in doing some volunteer work at University Village, the Married Student Housing Complex on campus. Students are needed to volunteer in a "Parents' Time-Out" program that meets in the community center on Mondays from 9:00 a.m.-11:30 a.m. when the University is in session. This ministry would entail working vvith two mother's to plan activities for children ages 1-4 and to assist in general child supervision. Please call John or Sylvia Dillon at 631-5242 if interested. 
Tuesday, Fehruary 2, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 15 
¦ MEN'S TENNIS 
-

Irish lose heartbreaker to No. 7 Longhorns 
that the del'cat did not come 8-3 victory at No. 3 doubles, set­defeating soventh-rnnked Jack poise today; he played like a vet­
By NATHANIEL DeNJCOlA from a lack of hustle or intensi­ting up Brandon llawk and Nick Brasington in straight sets 6-2, eran," said Bayliss.
S1,orrs Wri1cr ty. Crowell's triumph over Hyan 6-4. Last Tuesday, Sachire Fittingly, the match between In what lrnl:oming an annual "I thought we put forth a great Sachire and Brian Patterson to defP.aled fourth-ranked Mark Notre Dame and Tf~xas (which effort," said head coach Bob clinch the doubles point. The Loughrin of Wisconsin on the Texas had won 4-3 for the last
affair, llrn 24th-ranknd Notre 
Bayliss. "We broke down a bit in tandem or Matt Horsley and way to Notre Dame's 5-2 victory. four years) came down to oneDamn rmm's hmnis team battfod 
tmrnciously against seventh­doubles, but Texas is a good Tmnt Miller fought hard for the "Hyan consistently was able to match between senior captain lrish, though they too fell to hold serve against one of the top Brian Patte·rson and 31st­
ranked TnXIL'>, only to fall 4-:1 in team and ~.hey exposed our Gwanael Gueit and Paul Martin, players in the nation," said ranked Brandon Hawk at No. 2
tlw last set or tlw last match. wPukncsscs. 
Dnspite the loss, the Irish, For Urn first time this season, 9-7. Bayliss. "He has been playing at singles. the lrish were swept in doubles, Trailing by on1i, heading into that level for us all year." The script was straight out of
which foll to 3-l on Um season, as the Longhorns cruised to an the singles matches, Notre Dame Exhibiting a never-say-die an old Hollywood Western N a
can takn solace from Urn fact 
Lessons That Will Last A Lifetirne. 
OFFICER TRAINING SCHOOL 
Put that college degree to use by enrolling into the Air Force Officer Training School. Upon successful completion of the Officer Training School, you will become a commissioned Air Force officer with earned respect and benefits like -great starting pay, medical and 
dental care. management and travel AIM HIGH opponunit1es. For more on how to qualify 
. and get your career soaring with the 
AIR
.=-'fme~ 
Air Force Officer Training School. call 1-800-423-USAF, or visit our website at www.airforce.com www.arrtorce.com 
Today, Tuesday, February 2, 1999 
quickly saw its deficit increase attitude, Casey Smith and duel between Hawk, the fresh­to 3-1, as Gueit defeated senior Andrew Laflin brought the Irish man young gun out of Texas, captain Andy Warford, 6-4, 6-2, back into· contention with and Patterson, the veteran and 83rd-ranked Martin straight-set victories, knotting defending his home turf. llawk downed Malt Daly, 6-3, 7-6 (7-the match at 3-3. Ever the hall­built an early lead for the 3). Martin saved two set points mark of hustle, Smith displayed Longhorns, taking the first set 7­against Daly before finishing the his determination in a series of 6 (9-7) in the tic-break. match in a 7-3 tie-break, a tlailing vollies, followed by the Patterson quickly answered theme that would become unfor­celebratory fist puinp signifying with a 6-1 victory to set up a cli­tunately common for the Irish. that a crucial point had been mactic third set showdown. 
"Matt battled the flntirc sec­won. In the end, it was a diving Hawk drew first blood by jump• ond set and came within six drop volley that gave Smith the ing out' to a 5-0 lead in lhe third inches of tying the match 1-1," edge 7-6 (7<1), 6-3 over Michael set, all but obliterating Notre Hayliss said. "I think he had Blue at No. 5 singles. Dame's hopes for victory. Martin breathing hard and "Today was an important Patterson refused to go down would have done well in a third match for Casey; he began to without a fight as he battled to set. bul you can't make excus­find an identity tu his game," win the next three games, flirt­es." said assistant coach Mike ing with the impossible conquest 
Notre Dame did earn an early Morgan. of coming back from a five-game point at No. 1 singles where Smith wasn't the only fresh­deficit. But reality finally set in Sacbire continued his tear man going through a maturing as Hawk held serve at 5-3 to win against top-10 players, this time process on Saturday, as Laflin the set and the match for Texas. provided a crucial victory over "We had the matchup we Jorge Haro at No. 6 singles. wanted out there," said Bayliss. With his undefeated streak on "Hawk is one of the more talent­the line, Laflin forced Ilaro to a ed players we've seen, but I second-set tie-break, where he have a lot of confindence in sealed the win on a powerful Brian. We need to work on tak­serve to Haro's backhand. ing advantage of the opportuni­

"Andrew demonstrated a lot of ties that arise." 
Zimbabwe • England • Italy Hong Kong • Spain • France 
• 
Wide-rangi.ng courses 

• 
lnternsltips & service-learning 

• 
Business programs in 3 countries 

• 
Organized study-travel 

• 
Grants, scholarships, loans 


• Placement in foreign universities 
Syracuse Univtrsity 119 Euclid Avenue Syracuse, NY 13244 800-235-3472 suabroad@syr.edu http://samweb.syr.edu/dipa 
-
For time and location of meeting, call: 1-8041 NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C Sr.Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C. 
AII Meetings are private and confidentiaI. 
~#7· WoWsN:'·S 94SUR4LL~ 
•osl'OM COi.i..WGW!· ~S~. k·l'O)t~ U~L.L..
. . . 
Wea. February 3ra@7p.m. Celebrate: ''National Girls and 
Women in Sports Day!!" 
JAM THE JOYCE '99 
Sat. February.6th @lp.m. Help break the Irish attendance record!!! 
-


Tuesday, February 2, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 17 
Please Recycle the Observer 
0 
Come Join the Tradition ,;'., Applications are now being accepted. fa ,1
~'im 

positions for the 1999-2000 academic sch· 
You may ph;k up applications at the (t Student Activities, 315 Lafortune 
eadline: February 2 
¦ WOMEN'S TENNIS 
No. w 16 Irish claim 

two dual meets 
By KEVIN THOMPSON 
Sf)dtrs·Wdter 
A week after losjng a close 5-4 match to Pnppnrdine, the 16th-ranked women's tennis tcum dominated 
Kansas State and Oklahoma 
in separate dual meots ovor the wMkend. 
On Saturday, the women wero out to prove that the Pepperdine loss was an al1tirril.tiori. They did so by coming out and dictating the flow of the match, losing only 10 games in No. l•5 
·singles. 
"Last week was a disap• pointment. It provided a spa.rk for us. We did not Want to lot up this timo out," commented senior Michelle Dasso. ranked 23rd nation~ 
.ally. 
Against PeppcrdiM, the doubles tandem of Dasso and Hall droppod a tough 9­8 (8~6) match. 
· Saturday, the duo out­play11d Kansas State's No. 1 doubles 
Eva Novotna and Martina Pospislova in an8-4 deci· sion, Da~so also picked up a firsfsingles Vfotory against P.ospislova, tbe 73rd ranked player in the coi.mtry.
R.ouncling out the Kansas State match was a victory by .Jlecky yarnum and Marisa 
Velasco hi No. 2 doubles. 
Sunday brought on the Sooners of Oklahoma, the 45th ranked team in the country. 
The Jr.ish were 3-0 all time against Oklahoma and looked to improve on the mark. The women stayed on task. swoeping the compBti­tion. 
Dasso, II all, Velasco. Varnum, Kelly Zalinski and Lindsay GrMn1 succeeder! 
in the singles categories. On the doubles side, Dasso and Hall (39th nationally) posted an upset of 21st ranked doubles team, Danielle Knipp and Viviana Mracnova, 8-4. 
The teams of Varnum and v,~!asco. and Nina Vaughn and Zalinski picked up dou• blcs matches. 
The weekend marked the homecoming of stmior cap• tain Jennifer Hall. The two• time all-American and Oklahoma City native racked up two slnglos victo• ries including a tight 7 -5. 7­6 tilt against OU's Mracnova Sunday. 
Next up for the women is the Ro lex National Tournament featuring Dasso in the 32-player singles draw. 
The women open the home season with a dual match against Ohio State at 6 p.m. 

-
'.._. 
.....,_ 
page 18 The Observer• SPORTS Tuesday, February 2, I999 
--Fencing 
continued from page 20 
25-7, and 24-8, respectively. The seventh-ranked Buckeyes of Ohio State, however. were to provide the toughest competi­tion for the Irish. 
Cleveland State and Illinois­Chicago provided tough warm­ups !'or the women's cpee team, before their showdown with Ohio State later in the after­noon. 
Senior epee captain Nicole Mustilli. whose 13-2 record on the day raised her season total to 35-8, was not surprised by the tough bouts that Cleveland State gave the Irish. 
"Cleveland State has had some pretty good epee fencers in the past," Mustilli said. "And I noticed that they had a new assistant coach who was pretty good. So I was wary of them, but once again, they are no match for us." 
The epee squad defeated Cleveland State, 12-4, and Illinois-Chicago, 11-5. 
Mustilli and junior all­American Magda Krol paced the Irish against the Buckeyes, posting 3-1 and 4-0 records, respectively. 
Krol went 13-2 on the day and improved her season record to 35-9. Krol now has 180 career wins in only her third season. 
In the ciosest match of the day, the epeeists defeated their Buckeye counterparts, 9-7. 
The most dramatic and con­troversial matchup of the day occurred on Lane 14 where the Irish foilists took on the Buckeyes in a match that fea­tured three all-Americans in 
.. 
Notre Dame's Sarah Walsh and Myriah Brown and Ohio State's Yelena Kalkina. The talents of senior Irish captain Nicole Paulina and Buckeye sopho­more Fane Groes assured that there would be no easy bouts for either side. 
Ohio State jumped out to an early 2-0 lead as Groes defeated Irish sophomore Aimee Kalogera, 5-0, and Kalkina defeated Brown, 5-4. 
Brown fell behind early 4-1 due to several debatable calls by the director. Brown, howev­er, overcame the bad calls to rally back and tie the bout at four touches a piece. 
Controversy would again reign on the final touch. It appeared that Brown had won the final touch, but the director called lhe point for Kalkina giv­ing her a 5-4 win. The last call initiated scores of protest from both Brown, Walsh and Irish fencing coach Yves Auriol. 
"It is difficult when you have two fencers who are evenly matched," Brown said. "You do things that the director doesn"t see and its hard. Not only are you competing with the other fencer, but also in a way with the director." 
Walsh, who also suffered from 
poor directing in her first bout. 
attributed the poor calls to inex­
perience on the part of the 
director. 
"I think that she was a little 
inexperienced, so that was frus­
trating," Walsh said. "Plus, 
watching Myriah"s bout with 
Kalkina, I saw how many mis­
takes she made. So I thought it 
would be good to get a new 
director." 
Irish protests eventually 
resulted in a new director being 
appointed to the match. 
The new director arrived just 
in time for Walsh's bout with 
Kalkina. 
In what turned out to be the 
best bout of the match, Kalkina 
and Walsh dueled back and 
forth with neither fencer able to 
seize momentum. Finally, with 
1:33 remaining in the bout, Walsh surprised Kalkina with an attack. Kalkina failed to parry and Walsh took a com­manding 4-3 lead. 
Kalkina rallied back to tie the bout at four touches with 23 seconds left, but with time run­ning out, Walsh ducked a Kalkina thrust and counterat­tar.ked to win, 5-4. 
Walsh's victory over Kalkina was made even more difficult by a leg injury which pained her for the entire day. Walsh, how­ever, overcame her injury and continued her undefeated sea­son, boosting her record to 27­0. 
After falling into an early hole, the Irish rebounded 


Summer Research -Internship Opportunity: 
The Environmental Research Institute, a joint activity of Notre Dame & 
Argonne National Laboratory (ANL), in collaboration with the Center for 
Environmental Science & Technology, will award up to two Summer 1999 
internships at ANL in Argonne, IL -with a follow-up campus research 
appointment in the Fall. 
Stipend, room & board are provided for the 10-week program. 
Applicants should have research interests in an environmentally-related 
discipline {any field of study} concerned with or likely to contribute to the 
understanding, assessment, or improvement of the environment. 
Applicants must be US citizens or permanent residents, enrolled at Notre 
Dame, have completed their Junior Year by May 1999, and be registered 
to return in the Fall of 1999. 
For more details and an application, contact: The center for Environmental Science & Technology 152A Fitzpatrick Hall, 631-8376 

APPLICATION DEADLINE: FEBRUARY 19, 1999 
strongly winning nine bouts in a row to win the match, 11-5. 
Brown registered a 12-1 record on the day and raised her season record to 31-8. Her 31 victories gave her 251 career wins, moving her into first place for foils wins and second place in overall wins. 
State raised the Irish record on the year to 10-2. More impor­tantly, the Irish recovered their confidence after a tough road trip last weekend. 
"I try to forget about the weekend before," Brown said. "But it is definitely a big boost to actually fence well and to have things clicking togt>ther." 

You can post a Or you ca.n postpicture of you a. p1ctu.re of youand some of and these kid:s your friends. from the li:brary. 

Tuesday, February 2, 1999 
The oh~l'.rver • TU DAY page 19 
LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD OF ND I >AN SLIJ,LJVAN 
YOUR HOROSCOPE 
EUGENIA U..ST 

-



Late 
Congratulations to the team of 
-
Night 
Olympics Keough / Cavanaugh / Regina Winners al late Ni~Ot rn~m~ics XIII! f~anK~ to all w~o ~artici~ataa, wa wern a. le to rni~e t ~11~~ for ~t. J . ~B~n L . Unt~ ~~ecial m~m~ics! 
FOXTROT 
C1MNAlnlnlWlll ~l.lmfflUIPrtns,,..dlt.lll 
HEY.' WHAT OOPS. SoRRY. ARE YOU I lH006HT DotNG?! I YOO WERE WAS IN'l'HE DONE. 
I
MIDDLE oF 
A GAME.' 
DILBERT 
WE DIDN'T INCLUDE ENGIN(EP.$ 1N Tl-IE PRODUCT PLANNING 
SE$$ION5 BECAUSE .. . 
UM ... BE.CAUSE. .. . 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 Water sources 32Assumed
1 "In" 5 Faint flicker 
33 1968 hit "Harper Valley-·
1oHits with a ray gun 34 Hangover? 14Author-­35 Roebuck's Neale Hurston partner 15 "Amazing" 36Mimic magician 
37 Ryan's "Love 
1s Together, Story· co-star 
musically 38 Observe Yorn 17 Protein Kippur
components 39 Speck of land in
19-Strip 
the sea 20 Paraphrased 40 Deserter
21 Latter-day Saint 42 Coat of many 
23 Nature goddess colors wearer 24 Fruit of the Loom 
43Coeurd'~-,
competitor Idaho
25 Openings 44 "Stand By Me" 
28 Information singer --King
accessed on a computer 45Beefed 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

-:-,,+:c:+N:+-A-o-i 12 "The Godfather" A I author 
C 13 Penn name 18 Filling stations? ~~~':-t:±:i-:-iiiiill"""l~.;;;+:::+.,c+::-+::-1 22 "Chestnuts roasting-­A T O -=-1-=-t-=-t~= A M E open fire" SOL E >--+----tc:c-t--::~ NM E 24Le--,France 0 M A R E A G E E O 25 Take an oath 

L L O 8 E G 5 
E D E r-1r-1-,--t-::-t,c-U T A H P O 5 A 8 A A R T L E D L E 
R G Y 
!>ONE?! CoOLDN'T "!'OU SEE I WA'l1 ;JUST A.8oUT To Do 
BAlTLE WITH THE RED oRB GllAROIAN?! I :fuST PAUSED 
IT So I COULD GET SoME MoRE SUGAR IN MY lllooOSTREAM.' 
I 
\3£CAU5£. WE. WER.E. ART \-II5TOR'< MA'J"ORS 
I.N COLLE.GE.. 
47 Xylophone-like instruments 51 Singer Falana 52 East African 
capital 54Takes 
advantage of 55 "Good Times" 
actress Esther 56 Stew ingredient 57 Deli jarful 58 Symbol of 
freshness 59 Art Deco artist 

DOWN 
1 Ivan the Terrible, e.g. 2 "Where the heart is" 3 Eye part 4 Biblical hymn s Without charge 6 Shoestrings 7 Writer Bagnold 
e Put a wing (on) 9 Slips up, as a dating service 1oCroatian capital 1t It might bob up in conversation 
tJow lUKE, I SeNSE ,HAT Yov HAVE SoM£ uNR€SoL l/£J; ,ssuE5 yovR FMHER.

THIS WAS Gol'NG To BE MY 10,000114 ATTEMPT.' 
I WAS f£EL1'NG EXTRA·LUCI('(~ 
I CAN'T BELIEVE -You RESET IT·' 
/ 
Puzzle by Adam Cohen 
26 Positive thinking proponent 21 American Dance Theater founder 28 Steak ­
29 Pricey 30 Our planet 32 Crystal rock 
35 Run of the mill 36 Come together 38 Pulitzer-winning 
writer James 39 Ancient part of Asia Minor 41 Rio Grande city 
WH0SA1D 
I llESET 
IT? 
I 
HOW SOON CAN YOU BUILD 11-\E CLOAK OF INVISIBILITY? 
LET 'THE MAN i4IN\<., CLOVER. 


42 It's across the 48 ·;93o·s Hudson from heavyweight New York champ Max 
44 Jumps (out) 49 Aid in crime 45 Dejected 
so Sushi bar drink 46 Sub-(secretly) 
53 -180 (turn 47 1551, in around, in monuments slang) 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
~ 
~s 

lliE.N WHERES WELL, LET'!, Sll... l\1E RED oRB lliE FIRST TtME 
GUAflDIAN? I SNEE1ED, I AAAA! You TH1Nk' 1 PuSHEI> GoT PAST H1M?.1 lH15 8uTTON... 
\4oW!'.1 How?., OR THIS ONE... WHAT'D You Do?.' 
\ 
,1r-=-+lo;;.;==}-..."-' 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Christie Brinkley, Farrah Faw­cett, Tommy Smothers, Dexter Man­ley, Graham Nash, Brent Spiner, Kim Zimmer 
Happy Birthday: Don't take on too much. Choose your priorities carefully It's better to do one job and du it well than to try to do more and not succeed. You need to gauge your­self carefully this year. If you do the best you can, you'll get back what you deserve. This will be a test of patience, determination and will· power this year. If you are successful, you will achieve the satisfaction you've been looking for. Your num· bers: 8, 13, 25, 38, 41, 49 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): So­cializing with co-workers will lead to a better rapport at work Someone you do business with will want to get to knoy,-you better. Rumors may be dam· aging if you aren't extremely discreet. 
000 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Get an early start and you'll be surprised how much you get done. You will get positive support from those who love you. Plan your day well and you'll have time to see a movie later on. 
00000 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): 
You've probably overloaded your plate. Personal moves, renovations or more people on your domestic scene c,in be expected. Stay calm and let these disruptions pass quietly. 00 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You can cha11ge your image by purthasing new outfits, changing your hairstyle or taking on a whole new look. n,is is a great day to start a new diet or get rid of that bad habit. 0000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 221: You can expect opposition to your actions. Stay away from people who like to 
Birthday Baby: You have a great imagination that will help you see far more than most throughout your life". Your love of home and family will be appreci­ated by those close to your heart. Your strength will help you through any diffi­culties that you encounter. You ha\'e what it takes to be great, 









¦ OF INTEREST 

Holy Cross Assocint<is -is holding a pair of infor­mation sossions nt tho Center for Social Concorns today at 4 p.m. and 6:30 p.m. Also, Sunday, February 
7. l-loly Cross Associates is sponsoring a Discernment Evening -a night of mass, dinner, and discussion about life as a lloly Cross Associate. For more infor­mation, call Jon at 1-5521. 
Phil Donahue and Bishop Gumbleton -A l'ormal discussion will be hold this evening at 7 p.m. in Washington llall concerning the revision of Notre Dame's non-discrimination. clause to indude sexu.nl orientation. Foaturcd speakers are Phil Donahue and Bishop Cumbloton of Detroit. 
Wanted: Reporters and photographers. Join The Observer staff. 
gossip. Problems with financial schemes will set you back and cause upset. Take one step at a time. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sert. 22): You will be up and down i you allow your mate to get away with emotion­al blackmail. Get all the facts before taking action. Activities involving children will be rewarding. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 221: Make those physical changes you've been tlunking about. Get involved in activ­ities that will bring you in contact with others. You need mental and physical stimulation. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 211: Par­ticipation in organizational functions will lead to romantic connections. Your persuasive determination will sway opposition that you might encounter. 0000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov, 22-Dec. 21): 
Your ability to be spontaneous and creative will enhance your reputation. Use your stamina and gusto to achieve your objectives and don't be afraid to ask for favors or more money.00 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Changes in your domestic scene may be a result of poor communication. You will find that your emotional state has left those you love wondering. 
00000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb, 181: You should be pursuing your hobbies. You can make home improvements quickly and cheaply if you do the work yourself. Get the rest of the fam­ily to pitch in. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 201: Prob· !ems with lovers will continue to mount if you have been avoiding the issues at hand or using emotional blackmail. Your lack of attention to your mate has contributed to your problems. 000 

.. 
-




¦ Notre Dame's ¦ Murphy, Riley earn women's tennis terun conference honors for was victorious over outstanding play over Kansas State and the past week. Oklahoma.


PORTS 
p.17 p.12 
page 20 oisiRvER Tuesday, February 2, 1999 
¦ FENCING 

Irish fencers sweep competition over weekend 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Sport. Writer 
The second-ranked men's team and the fourth-ranked women's team dominated the opposition in tho JACC field­house this weekend, as each team posted 5-0 records. 
The men's team downed Case Western Reserve 26-1, Purdue 23-4, Cleveland State 24-3, Illinois-Chicago 25-2 and Ohio State 20-7. 
The men's epee team, led by senior all-American Carl Jackson's undefeated, nine-win effort, blanked Cleveland State and Illinois-Chicago 9-0, bested Case Western 8-1 and overcame stronger competition from l'urdue and Ohio State to win 6­3 and 7-2, respectively. 
Jackson was not surprised by the lack of compntition that the epee team facpd this wnekend. 
•we knew that we bad already faced our toughest com­petition this year," Jackson said. "So this weekend we just tried to get hyped up to destmy anything we faced. It was also good that some of our non­starters got a chance to fence. They work hard and this is a chance for them to have some run." 

Freshman Brian Casas, whose 7-1 record over the weekend boosted his season rec()rd to 21­7 on the year, continued to be impressive in only his first colle­giate season. 
Casas' fast start, however, was not unexpected. 
"I knew Im was really good," Jackson said. "Seeing him fence gives me a lot of hope for the future after I leave. He will keep improving and be even stronger in the future." 
The men's foil team, behind a combined 24-5 record by senior captain Stephane Auriol, junior Charles Hayes and frnshman Steven Mautone, had no trouble with their weekend competition. The foilisls blanked Case Western and downed Purdue and Illinois-Chicago 8-1 and 8­
1. 

Cleveland State and Ohio 
State each proposed more l'or­midable challenges to the foil team, but the Irish defeated both teams by a 6-3 margin. 

The Irish sabre team contin­ued to leave no doubts that they were one of the best in the country, as they shut out Case Western Heserve, Purdue and Cleveland State. 
Illinois-Chicago and Ohio State wern also no match for the lrish sabremen, as they cruised to 8-1 and 7 -2 victories, respectively. 
The top three Irish sabrcmcn, l 998 sabre champion Luke Lavalle, freshmen Andre Crompton and Gabor Szelle, went undefeated in 23 bouts. LaValle's record now stands at 21-4, while Crompton has post­ed 27 wins with only three defeats. Szelle is now 27-1. 
Tile women's team also had a rnlatiwly easy weekend against Case Western, Purdue, Cleveland State and lllinois­Chicago, winning 31-1, 30-2, 
see FENCING/page 18 
¦ NOTRE DAME WOMEN'S SWIMMING 


Swimmers fall to Michigan 

By WES RICHARDSON Sporn Writer 

Depth is traditionally one of the greatest strengths of Notre Dame's swimming and diving leams. 
UnfortLrnately for the women's squad: it was not a strength they could rely un when swimming Michigan on Saturday. The No. 22 Irish fell to the No. 9 Wolverines, 162­136 in Ann Arbor. 
The women used lheir com­petitiveness at both the faster and slower ends of their ros­ter to defeat Michigan in January's Rainbow Invitational. and to place a close second to the Wolverines in December's Notre Dame Invitational, but dual meets are a different story according to coach Bailey Weathers. 

"It's a lot more difficult to usn our depth in a dual meet," he said. "If they know where to place their best swimmers, thev can outscore all of ours." 
Weathers noted that a first­place finish in any event earns nine points, and will outscorn second, third and fourth place combined. 
He explained that a team like Michigan, who will send a number of top qualifiers to the NCAA Championships in March, can rely on those fow to grab the individual wins that are so important for a team victory. 
Despite losing the last dual meet of the season, Weathers was not disappointed with the team's performance. The Irish ha,•e not been shaken from their vision of a cl1rnactic end 
see SWIM/page 12 

By BRIAN HOBBINS Sports Writer 
Notre Dame's men's and women's track team opened up their two-week homcstand witb a bang this weekend against Big Ten powerhouse Indiana llniversitv. 
On the men's ·side, junior Marshaun West continued to astound crowd and competi­tion alike, winning both the long jump and 200-meter dash. For the second time in as many weeks West regis­tered a jump of 25 feet or more. Additionally, West pro­vision ally qualified for the NCM tournament with a time or 21.17 seconds in the 200 meters, the second fastest indoor time in Notre Dame historv. 
Acc<impanying West with solid performances were pole vaulter Mike Brown, Tim Kober in the 800 meters and Phil Mishka in the 600 meter. Brown cleared a meet-record height of 16 feet. 6 inches in one of the most exciting per­formances of the night. 
Mishka also posted a meet­record time in the 600 meters, en route to a first place linish. 
Other highlights included Antonio Arce's mile victory and Tim Kober's meet record­breaking performance uf 
1:51.79 in the 800 meter run. Kober admitted that Ill pro­vided great competition, but revealed that the meet was really a gauge for the upcorn­
ing Big East tournament. 
"They showed us how much work we have IPft, how much we need to step it up," Kober stated. 
In the wake of the narrow 84-78 loss, Kober and the rest of his teammates look for­ward to another week of prac­tice and the second home meet in a series next week­end. 
"There will be a lot of good competition again. Each week is another step towards the Big East," Kober said. 
The women's team balanced the overall Irish results with an 82-78 victory. The victory was inspired by a tour-de· force performance from f'n~sh• man Liz Grow. Grow blew the door off of the competition on the way to a double record­breaking performance, Grow shattered the previous school 400-meter record by half a second at 54.89, while break­ing a meet record in the 200 meters at 24.21 seconds. 
Coach Tim Connelly admit­ted that Grow had little adjustment to make from high school to college, as her times were some of the premiere marks in high school track across the country. 
"She is running just about what she ran in high school," Connelly said. Freshmen con­tinue to Sflt the standard of excellence on the women's side with standout perfor­
see TRACK/ page 12 


vs. Bosron College vs. Michigan State Men's and Women'sWednesday, 7 p.m,


SPORTS 
Friday, 7p.m.

Tennis at Rolt:x National Indoors 
ATA 
Sainr Mary's Basketball 

at Seton Hall Thursday, all day 
vs. KalamazooSaturday, 12 p.m. 

Wednesday, 7:30 p.m. 
GLANCE 



