------------~­

¦ The GSU decided to postpone its vote on a resolution declaring its position in the Big 'lcn debate. 
News. 3 

THE 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 81 WWW. ND.EDU/-OBSERYER 
Joining 


81~~N 
CO~CE 
The Big Ten 
7 
¦ The Observer endorses Midden/Little in Saint 
l
Wednesday l 
Mary's student body election. 
FEBRUARY 3, 
Viewpoint• 7 
1999 


DECISIONS IN LONDON 
Editor's Note: On Fri., feb. 5, the Board ofTrustees will meet in London to discuss, tlmong other issues, 
Notre Dflt11e sposition 011 joining the Big Tm and the possibility offldding the protection ofse:rna/ ori­entation to the U11iversity '.r 11011-discrimim1ti1Jn clause. Throughout the days leading to that meeting, 
The Observer will take a comprehensive look at the history andpeople behind these two issues as well as po,sible r,m1ific,1tiow of decisions rhm rhe hoard might deliver. 



Donahue speaks at rally, supports clause change 
By DEREK BETCHER 
Assistant :\Jews Editor 
A divers1i group of students, faculty and alumni hnadlincd by 1957 gradu­ate Phil Donahue spok(l imploringly Tu1isday night in favor of revising Notre Dame's non-cliscrim ination clause to include sexual orientation. 
With the Board of Trustees sched­uled to consider the change for the first time Friday, the presentation 

took on added signif­icance. 
Calling the
• "Athletes offer 
University's current
differing views 
policy "medieval, 
on Big Ten 
anachronistic (and)membership" 
un-Christian," 
. p.4 
Donahue spoke 
about his time at 
Notrn Dame during 
the 195Os and paralleled some aspects ol' the civil rights movement to the cur­rent gay rights movement. I-le warned that tlrn all-white, unrepresentative _campus of his college years only prr.­parnd its students for a false world that mwer matnrialized. lfo later made his implication more speci!ic. 
Notre Dame has created an atmos­plrnre where homophobia is likAly to nourish, Donahue warned. lie asked that Notre Dame stand up to its hPr· 
itage and support tlw clause rev1s1011. claiming that potential lawsuits and other harmful conscqucmcns cited by critics aro "a myth." 
"Wn'rn not asking that this Univnrsity blow itsp]f' up, wB're not asking that it losfl its Catholic valuns and we're not asking it to rnlieve itsell' 
see RALLY / page 6 
Students fast in support of clause change 
By FINN PRESSLY 
News Writer 
As tho Board of Trustees decision regarding the addition of sexual ori­entation to the non-discrimination clause approaches, ov,w a hundred students will follow in the footstr.ps of other non-violm1t protesters by taking part in a three-day hungPr strike. 
"We're hoping to influence the 
see FAST/ page 4 
Candidates present their platforms, leadership styles 
By C<>I.LEEN McCARTHY 
S,1i111 !\l,1rv', Nt'ws Fdirnr 
Tlw two ti<"kHts running for Saint Mary's student body prc•sidnnt and vic11 prt>sidc•nt nlahoratnd on thnir plat­l'or111s. IPad<•rship styliis and why tlwir classmates 

should vote !'or tl1Pm during "Meet the Candidates" night on Tunsday. 
Janet llorvath and Gina Gunrrnso, whose platform includes improving dining hall servicns by increasing thn variety and accessibility of the grab-and-go service and a point system, nxplained how thoy docidr.d on their platform goals. 
".lust by asking students and serving on BOG and our resp,~ciivn boards, wn were abl11 to arrivn at. thes(l goals," said Ilorvath, u. prnsiclcntial can<liclatc. 
Making sum they could follow through on thr.ir goals was also a priority, said Guom•so. 
I lowev11r, tho Ilorvath/Guerrnso ticknt admittml dilli­culty in actually m1\11ting with dining hall nllicials to clis­russ their propos!'d id<~us. 
"It never work1\rl oul on Llwir !dining hall ol'ficialsl c1nd to nwnt with thnm so our bost bot was to Lalk to Dr. Ti111111 lvict' prnsidonl of stuclnnt affairs I," said CuniTl'so. "I lownwr, WI' havn smin tho dining hall take steps to gPt sludnut inpuL I think if intorcsl is shown and a formal proposal that this is what we want to Im changed, it could bo changed." 
Vice presidential candidate Angie Little said that although dining hall changes were not on their plat­form, she and her running male Nancy Midden had talked to Kevin Kirwan, director or dining services, as to whether changes would be possible in dining hall services. 
"Basically, Kevin Kirwan said it. would be counterpro-

The Oberver/Manue\a Hern•ndez 
Nancy Midden and Angie Little, whose platform includes a mentoring program and a study day during finals, said they would be approachable leaders. 
ductivc to put these dining hall irnprovenrnnts on our platform because they are already doing the maximum they can right now, but it takes time to facilitate changes," said Littlo. "WH folt they wnrn doing suffi­ciently what thny could." 
see DEBATE I page 6 
page 2 
¦ INSIDE COLUMN 


Embracing 
the "Winds of 

change 
It's funny how the weather affects our 
moods. wi1en the sun makes its rare appear­
ance. we rediscover our playfulness and enPr­
gy. When it snows, we often slip into our bun­
dle-up. deep-thought, cof­
fee-house mode. And 
when it rains, as it has 
been lately, we are just 
plain sad. 
A dear friend of mine 
withdrew from school a 
few clays ago and headfld 
west, following the sunset 
and all that thrills his Colleen Gaughen 
spirit. It is said that rain Associace Viewpoint 
washes away the past Editor 
with its cleansing renew­
al, but I hopn that it isn"t true. I want my friend 
to remember me. 
It's quite common, really, people drifting in 
and out of our lives. Sometimes they burst in 
on wild winds of change, and sometimes they 
float in on breezes so gentle we take for grant­
ed their quiet constancy. We come to college. 
Thev move in m~xt door. We have the same 
class together. They ask us out. We work the 
same shifts. There's something about the way 
they seem to understand. 
Then just as suddenly, or just as softly, they 
are gone. Vanished from our daily lives, leav­
ing only footprints in our memories. We go 
away to college. They move off-campus. We 
have opposite schedules. They change. We 
break up. They switch jobs. We get in a fight. 
They graduate. We change. They take off one 
day in a car with absolutely no plans except to 
find a sleeping bag in Chicago, drive to 
California, and hike to Montana in time for 
summer. 
Yet I wonder if it's more than mere circum­
stance that first draws people together and 
then drives them apart. Perhaps there's a high­
er design guiding the flow of people in and out 
of our lives. Perhaps others are given to us to 
fulfill a need, share a moment. or teach us a 
lesson we didn't even know we needed to 
learn. And once we've learned it, they are car­
ried by the wind to help someone else. Or per­
haps we are the ones swept away to help 
another, heal a hurt or unknowingly teach a 
lesson. 
Or maybe it's all one big game of chance. 
We just happen to be in the same place at the 
same time. There's no higher design, no deep­
er destiny, and no grandiose plan. Life is pure 
coincidence and no force is pushing or pulling 
any of us in a particular direction. We just are. 
Whatever you believe about destiny, divine 
intervention, or the utter lack of either, the fact 
remains that special people float in and out of 
our lives; sometimes we can do something 
about it, other times we just can't. Like rainy 
weather patterns, the winds of change come 
and go. I couldn't have stopped my friend, but I 
did make the most of my time with him. His 
last night here we watched the powerful film 
"The Shawshank Redemption," which beauti­
fully sums up my sentiments: 
"Those of us who knew him best talk about 
him often. l swear the stuff he pulled ... 
Sometimes it makes me sad, though, him being 
gone. I have to remind myself that smne birds 
are not meant to be caged ... their feathers are 
just too bright. And when they fly away, the 
part of you that knows it was a sin to lock them 
up does rejoice ... hut still ... the placfl you live 
in is that much more drab and empty that 
they're gone. I guess I just miss my friend." 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Obserller. 
¦ Tootw's STAFF 
News Scene 
Erica Thesing Emmett Malloy Mat>t>'Y Tinucci Graphics Laura Rompf Cristin Man,uy Sports Lab Tech Anchony Bianco 
Michelle Keefe Viewpoint 
Eddie I.lull 
The Ob,ervcr (LSJ>S 599 2·/4000) is published Monday through l'ridar except during c:xam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associated l'rt<>. All reproducuon rights are reserved. 
The Observer• INSIDE Wednesday, february 3, 1999 








utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Student sit-in achieves compromise as university signs code 
DURHAM, N.C. 
For members of Duke University's Students Against Sweatshops, the most important rhallenge ol' bring lorked in the Allen Building was trying to broad­cast news of their 31-hour sit-in to the outside world. But upon vacating thp, premises Saturday night, tliey faced an even larger task: spreading news of their achievement. 
Through press releases and personal contacts at universities across the country, ne·ws of the compromisP spread like wildfire. Accounts of tlrn protest ran in area papers and in Tho New York Tinws. 
By Monday morning, the scheduled deadline for siguing the Collegiate Licensing Company's anti-sweatshop code, almost anyone involved in the apparel licensing debate knew about the compromise eked out by SAS and Duke administrators. and most were intrigued. 

Under the agreement. Duke will sign the CLC Code of Conduct. By joining the rode, the 170 member schools would impose human rights standards on the licensed manufacturers producing goods bearing their logos. The licensees will be responsible for hiring monitoring agencies to check for com­plianr,e and report back to the CLC:. 
But this weekend's agreement insists on full disclosure: Companies must reveal their facl.ory arldresses to uni­versities, who can notify students, who in turn can inform independent human rights groups. If the CLC code does not achieve l'ull disclosurn within a y1rnr, then the University must leave tlw group. 
Even without considering the Duke agreement, administrators at most schools with vocal anti-sweatshop movements said they need more time to evaluate the code's strengths and weaknesses. 
The University of Wisconsin, Nllw York University and tlrn University of North C:arolina at Chapel Hill, for example, are each still considering whether to sign. 
"[The deadline] was certainly not foa­siblfl for NYU," said John Beckman, the school's director of public affairs. 
¦ UmvERSlTY Of MISSOURI-ST. loms Students protest discrimination clause 
ST. LOUIS, Mo. 
The Board of Curators voted Friday at UM-St. Louis to make executive order three into system policy, eliciting a protest from some students who said the order does not go far enough to protect against discrimination based on sexual orientation. "The policy [executive order three) was estab­lished to create a positive work environment and to enable all members of the University community to effectively per­form their work or to achieve their educational goals," said Manuel Pacheco, President of the UM system. "It was intend­ed to include all legal categories of nondiscrimination as well as other types of discrimination, including that based on sex­ual orientation." Pacheco said that a committee was put in place to study the issue of including sexual orientation into the anti-discrimination policy. Public hearings were held Nov. 13 at Columbia wherein faculty, staff, and students from all four campuses addressed the committee in person. 
¦ UNiVEHSITY OF TEXAS-AmrnN 
Gene may lead to improved treatment 
AUSTIN, Texas 
Scientists at the University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center in Houston have discovered a new gene which they say may lead to improved treatment for ovarian and breast cancers. In an article published in the February issue of Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, a team of scientists from MD Anderson announced the discovery of a gene called NOEY2 which affects the development of certain types of tumors. The gene can be called a "tumor suppres­sor gene," said Dr. Robert Bast, head of the division of medi­cine at MD Anderson, because it is active in normal breast and ovarian cells but not in cancerous ones. Hes.carchers said their findings are especially important because of the high occurrence of breast cancer among American women. According to the American Cancer Society, more than 40,000 women die annually from breast cancer in the United States. 

¦ MIAMI UNIVERSITY 'Real World' reaches college campuses 
OXFOHD, Ohio 
Feb. 1 marked the first day that the dorm lives of eight students, representing seven different New England uni­versities, were broadcast on WebDorm.com. The stu­dents each have a camera set up in their room that transfers their image and the image of the dorm room onto the Internet. The Website is contrasting the immensity of the World Wide Web with the microcosm of a college dorm room on a three inch by three inch screen (your computerl broadcasted 24 hours a day, seven days a week for the remainder of the semester. Window to the world? Perhaps. Window to the college world? Definitely. One student is known only as "CompNerd." llis alias is an effort to protect his identity. He sits at what is presumably his desk and talks on the phone while typing something into his computer. Ile laughs at the phone conversation. 

¦ OKLAHOMA STATE UNIVERSITY Oklahoma proposes legalizing tattooing 
STILLWATER, Okla. 
Oklahoma soon may join 47 states in legalizing tattoo­ing. A law proposed by Sen. Lewis Long, D-Glenpool, would make tattooing legal for the first time since 1965, when it was outlawed due to fears of transmitting hepati­tis. Sen. Long and others fear that the health risks of ille­gal tattoo parlors are far greater than in legalized parlors. "They're tattooing right now in garages and back rooms and places, so l decided what we needed to do was legal­ize it, inspect it," Long said in published reports. Health officials warn that contaminated nendles and tools can transmit infections, including the IIIV virus. But llca!th Department reports say the risks of tattooing are minimal if tubes and needles are properly stnrilized and the artist is careful. The "Tattoo Studio Licensing Act" would require needle-sterilization techniques with the use of germicidal soap and other sanitary steps. 

¦ Sourn BEND WEATHER ¦ NATIONAL VVEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
National weather 
AccuWeather®for~cast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Wednesday. Feb. 3 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
Wedne$day 
~ 1 Thursday O @3 Friday J O 42 ·· 35 Saturday ~'" 43;1i ,s,30 
© 1999 AccuWeathcr, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY
Sunday ,.. :';\~ 43'" 30 
.-'·\}"~,..~...........,,, '>,(., 
@""'b CJ . IT:J . . rm o J,J~ (i.i·~ 
High Low Showers Rain T•storms f=lurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 



4.9.~98-Q {) ~ s 
Austin 71 44 Fargo 30 26 Tampa 78 66 
Showers T-srorms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pf. Cloudy C/ou!ly 
Boston 44 39 Las Vegas 64 35 Topeka 49 31 
Via Ass.ociatso' Press GraphicsNel 
Wednesday, February 3, 1999 The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Barron speaks at Aquinas conference 
By EMILY McCORMICK 
NlfflS Wrircr 
lluman salvation is possi­blti hecause God is ungras­pable and unavoidable, said Further Hobf.lrt Barron. pro• fossor of philosophy and tlrnology at Munduline University. 
Barron, who spokll during tlrn S1:cond Annual Saint Thom us Aquinas Symposium at Saint Mary's 011 Saturday, explainod that the strangeness of God allows humans to be saved. 
"That God is able to bC'come a creature without ceasing to be God or com­promising tlrn intugrity of the crnatur<l he becomes is very strange ... this very strangenoss ol' God is salva," Barron said. "He saves us." 
Barron explained that Aquinas also taught this viow. 
"Thomas Aquinas saw in Josus Christ the 1ict of' humnn surrender in the presence of this ungras­pabln, unavoidable mystery ol' lov1-1," hP said. 
Although Aquinas used a lot of' philosophy in his writ­ing. Barron omphasized that philosophy does not provide salvation. 
"Philosophical heights built up by Aristotle, whether they are physics or metaphysics, they are won• derful, yes, they are great, yus, but thoy won't savn us because we are going to an end that is beyond whatever we can grasp and know and control," he said. "God reaching into our human conscience. bett1n, our human lives, and drawing ns np beyond oun,elves ­that is tho foundation or thti authentic theology that 
saves us." he said. 
Another important aspect of salvation was God be com• ing a preacher, Barron said. 
"Until God beciime a· preacher, we did not know the fullness and the intensi­ty of the goodness, justice :tnd the power or God" ho said. 
Barron explained that humans do not trust God fully. 
"The glory of God is that he wishes us to be fully alive," he said. "We try to grasp at the divinity, but when that fails we hide our­selves." 
Barron also explored Aquinas' Five Arguments for God's Existence, saying that Aquinas did not believe they were very important. Barron agreed with that idea. 
"Theso are ways or tnas­ing the fallen m'ind in the direction of the fullness of life, which is given through Jesus Christ,'' he said. 
Barron is the author "Thomas Aquinas: Spiritual Master" and "Now I See: A Theology of Transformatton." 
¦ GRADUATE STUDENT UNION 



Members delay resolution vote 
By BRAD UNTIEDT 
News Writer 
After much discussion. the Graduate Student Union decided Tuesday night to postpone their vote on a resolution that would declare their position on Notre )~ame's possible membership in the Big 
!en. Prior to tho decision, some members expressed a desire for an official position. 
"The GSU has heen left out, or just grouped with the faculty," said GSU presi­dnnt Marybeth Graham. "Wo have an opin­ion on this issue and want it to bo voiced." 
David Fowle, GSU vice president, outlined some advantages of Big Ten membership for graduate students. 
"Ono definite advantagn to joining !the Big Ten] would be for the library," he said. "It would surely benel'it from a Big Ten-type set up." 
Fowle also commentnd on a recent study that showed thf' advantages of large research universities for undergraduate students. Ile stated that the study shows students exposed to leading edge research programs have been more successful in the job market. 
"We want what is in everyone's best inter­est, even if this is exposing [undergradu­ates] to more research," he said. 
While the possibilities of expanded research were discussed, the members 
w11re quick to note that this will not necessarily be a rnsult of membership in the Big Ten. "We want to grow and continue to hnve a great university," said Fowle. 
The GSU also discussed involvement in a com­rnittcie t.o look at revising du Lac. Possible revi­sions include a bill of rights for students. which would include graduate students. 
"This would be a great opportunity for us to gtit spticif1c rights for graduatti students included in du Lac," Fowle said. "This could give us a chance to gain some of the rights that are afford­Pd to grad students at other schools." 
Graham also discussed thn advantages of' a bill of rights. 

The Observer/Edan Essex D_avid Fowle, vice president of the graduate student union, discussed the advantages of Big Ten membership for graduate students. 
''This bill of rights could lnad to hnlp for gradu­ate students that have had tcrribln advising experiences... land] this would providn a way out," Graham said. 
In other GSU news: 
-Graham discussed the lack of rnndia cowff­age of' the civil war in Sierra Leone. She instruct­ed GSU members to "bug The 0bserv!lr and bug the South Bend Tribune to sec why there hasn't been any more coverage on this issue." 
-Continuing efforts to improve computllr access for graduate students looks promising. The computer cluster in the University Village Community Center should be updated within a month. 

lllil 

page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, February 3, 1999 
Athletes offer differing views on Big Ten membership 
By MIKE CONNOLLY "We wouldn't have to travel ence for baseball. runner Tim Engelhardt said. said. "That is an important Spores Writer as far," cross country runner Conferences are also ranked "This year, the Big East was a selling point for recruits." Kelly Peterson said. "But we based on the strength of their little down a little bit, but his­Financial issues would also 
Although the effect of Big Ten don't. travel every weekend teams. torically it is a very good con• hurt Notre Dame recruiting in membership on the football now, so it wouldn't make that "The Big Ten is rated sixth in ference." the Big Ten. Many of the Big program usually dominates the big of a difference." conference rankings," Shilliday Many Notre Dame fans are East members are small, pri­athletic debate around Notre Despite the difficult distances said. "And the Big East is ninth concerned that recruiting vate schools with tuitions that Dame's campus, there are 17 and long travel times, some or tenth. The Big Ten is more would be hurt by Big Ten are relatively similar to Notre other Fighting Irish Learns that players sec trips to the east respected so it will be easier to membership. Ultimately, the Dame's. In tho Big Ten howev­would be affected by earn a bid if you don't win effects of recruiting would vary er, most conference affiliates the switch to the Big the conference tournament from sport to sport. are large, public schools with Ten Conference. ifwe are in the Big Ten." Peterson feels that Big Ten tuitions that are significantly 
Some teams, such as ,you LEARN so MUCH TRAVELING, Men's soccer, however, membership would not change less than Notre Dame. hockey, fencing and would be hurt by a switch Irish cross country recruiting. Sports that offer half scholar­
ESPECIALLY TO THE EAST COAST. 
lacrosse. participate to the Big Ten. Although "The schools we compete ships would be hurt by this in leagues separate WE GO TO WASHINGTON, D.C. WE GO Indiana won the national against !'or recruiting arenOt change. If a recruit is offered a from both the Big Ten TO NEW YORK CITY. WE GET TO SPEND A title this year, the Big East necessarily conference oppo­half scholarship to Notre has traditionallv been a nents," she said. "For cross Dame, Boston College, or 
antl the Big East. and DAY IN THOSE CITIES AND IT IS REALLY A
thus would be unaf-stronger soccer conference, country, we compete with Villanova, they will still end up fected by the change. GREAT EXPERIENCE.' with St. John's and other strong academic schools; paying about $12,000-$15,000 Neither the Big Ten Connecticut both qualifying teams like Stanford or a year. At a Big Ten school, nor the Big East have for the tournament last Wisconsin. Being a good acade­however, a half scholarship any of these sports as A1ATT JOHNSON year. mic school, we are going to will only force a recruit to pay part of its league line­NOTRE DAME SOCCER CAPTAIN "Joining the Big Ten compete with other good acad­about $5,000-$10,000 a year. up. would hurt competition," emic schools.'' "As far as recruiting goes," 
The hockey team Velho said. "The Big East is Regional ties will play an Johnson said, "It would be eas­would maintain Its membership coast as positive experiences known to be the better confer­important role in both baseball ier for a recruit to go to an in the Central Collegiate and enriching to their overall ence." and men's soccer recruiting. Ohio State or a Penn State Hockey Association, while the college experience. Johnson agreed: "I think that "A lot of the players we get whore the tuition is a lot less. lacrosse team would continue "It gets difficult because you the Big East The Big East is closer to us its partnership with the Great have to make up so much Conference is the as far as tuition goes. Western Lacrosse League. The work," Irish soccer captain better conference Hecruiting would be more
'JOINING THE BIG TEN WOULD HURT
fencing team would remain in Malt Johnson said. "But I feel for soccer. The difficult in the Big Ten." the Midwestern conference. that vou learn so much travel­Big Ten does have COMPETITION. THE BIG EAST IS Weighing all the factors Other teams, however, will ing, ~specially to the east coast. together, each player has
Indiana, but if you KNOWN TO BE THE BEITER CONFERENCE .•. 
be affected greatly by a confer­We go to Washington D.C. We look at the teams come to a separate opinion ence switch. Travel time, quali­go to New York City. We get to on a whole, the THERE IS JUST MORE DEMAND FOR COLLEGE regarding possible member­
ty of opposition and recruiting spend a day in those cities and Big East has bet-SOCCER ON THE EAST COAST THAN THE ship in the Big Ten. 
will all be altered if Notre it is really a great experience. ter soccer. Big "I would not be in favor of Dame joins the Big Ten. You do miss a class every once East teams such MIDWEST.' Notre Dame joining the Big The people who will bear the in a while, but that is out­as St. John's and Ten," Johnson said. brunt of this change will be the weighed by the positive experi­Rutgers usually "Myself and the other base­
GREG VELHO
players. Each team will face ences on road trips." finish up better." ball players have talked new challenges with Big Ten In terms of the strength of "There is just GOALTENDER FOR THE NOTRE DAME SOCCER TEAM about [the Big Ten]," affiliation. Irish athletic schedules, a more demand for Shilliday said. "I think that 
One major change that will switch to the Big Ten would be college soccer on the majority, if not all, are in result from Big Ten competi­extremely beneficial to sports the east coast than the are from the Midwest area," favor of the Big Ten.'' tion is travel. Currently, Notre where the Big East is thought Midwest," Velho said. Shilliday said. "It is more inter­"I would really like to stay in Dame is the westernmost mem­to be weaker than the Big Ten. Big Ten men's cross country esting for them to play schools the Big East," Peterson said. "I ber of the Big East. Necessary One sport that would receive was stronger than the Big East that they grew up around or like running against top com­road trips to the east coast a big boost from Big Ten mem­this year, but traditionally the that they grew up watching." petition like Villanova and require air travel and missed bership is baseball. Last year, conferences have been fairly Severing ties to the east coast Providence. It is exciting to classes for many student-ath­the Irish finished second in the close. will hurt men's soccer recruit­race against them." letes. Big East to Rutgers, but did not "The Big Ten is one of the ing, according to players. The athletes are speaking. 
"Travel would be one of the receive a bid to the NCAA tour-strongest cross country confer­"The Big East is the more Is the Board of Trustees !is­big advantages to us joining the nament. ences in the country," Irish respected conference," Velho toning? 
Big Ten." Irish pitcher Alex Shilliday said. "It's tough when we get back from these Big East trips on Sunday night at 
1:30. Eliminating all the air travel and changing to bus travel would be great." 
If the Irish were to join the Big Ten. travel distances would be greatly reduced. The fur­thest east the Irish would trav­el would be to State College, Penn. The furthest west that Notre Dame squads would ven­ture would be Minnesota. 
The shorter road trips would eliminate the need for air trav­el to most away games, but many players do not see this as advantageous. 
"A bus trip would take just as long as a plane ride," volleyball captain Lindsay Treadwell said. 
Greg Velho, goaltender for the men's soccer team, echoed Treadwell's sentiments. 
"The long plane ride to the east coast is worth it. f'd much prefer flying to the east coast than taking a six hour bus ride through the Midwest." 
Some sports would not be affected by changing travel conditions. 
Rutgers made it to the tour­nament because the champion of each league is granted an automatic bid. Other teams must be chosen "at-large" to receive bids. Manv factors are considered when "at-large" bids are distributed. The two most important factors are wins and losses, and the RPI rating, which is largely based on the strength of the team's schedule. 
"Playing in the Big Ten would help us qualify for the NCAAs," Shilliday said. "Notre Dame would be playing a tougher schedule and that would increase our RPI rating." 
The Big Ten placed four teams in the preseason ESPN/USA Today Baseball Weekly coaches poll while the Big East claimed only three ranked teams. Illinois, Minnesota, Ohio State and Michigan all represented the Big Ten while the Irish, Rutgers and St. John's made a showing for the Big East. 
The University of Miami has traditionally been a baseball powerhouse, but due to the rel­ative weakness of the Big East in baseball, the Hurricanes do not participate in the confer-

Tonight 
"Sweatshops Today and Catholic Social Teaching" 
Rev. James Joyce, S.J. 

Chairman, National Labor Committee New York Province of the Society of Jesus 
Wednesday, February 3, 1999 
8:00 p.m. Room 102-DeBartolo Hall 
Campus Information: 631-6934 
Sponsored by the Higgins Labor Research Center University of Notre Dame 

< 
,..... 
-v 

Wednesday, i:ehuary .'\, 1999 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERV!C'ES page 5 
¦ WOHlD NEWS BRIEFS 
Canadian groundhog 'Willie' dies before ceremony 
WIABTON, Ontario 
Tlw crow,! at r:111wd,1 's lop ( ;roundlwg Day l',•stival gol worsP llPWS T11nsday than a bad Wl'alhPr f'iir«•1·asl: Tlll'_v IPar111•d that star 
grnundlwg \Viarlun \VilliP liad died. Some 
rhildrnn .i111011g tlw 200 ppoplP lltlrst into l<'ars. Willie• dind of natural raus,•s Sunday night, hut his dPalll was not disrlosc>d until l11..stlay's 1·,•rp111011y. "We• didn't nwlly know what lo do,"said Sa111 Brouwer. Willie's carn­litkPr for lllf• past IO y1iars. "We were absol11IPIV dcwaslatl'd." Willin was lying in a pirw wf"hn for u puhlic vinwing Tunsday 11111r11i11g. llis paws Wf'rti crossnd, pnnnieis w,•rc• pla1'.f'd ovPr his "Y"lids and lw was rhllching a nu-rol. Br<lllWPr sald llw albino grou1Hlhog diPd al tlw agn oi' 22. much lo11g1•1· titan 111ost grnu11dl10gs in ilw wild su1·­viVP. 
America Online bans family for life 
Ol!Clli\HD l'i\HK. N.Y. 
vVhP11 a 10-y,•ar-old boy hrokP AmPrica ll11li111•s rull's, 1111' giant lntPrnf'l providPr c·anH· down hard. It banned him -and his family -f'or lift>. lll'rTick Wolbert and his famlly Wl'l"I' a bit surprised. "I n-rnailnd a kid," till' lirtl1-gradPr told The Buffalo News 011 Sunday, smiling and shrugging his shoul­d1·rs. "I salcl I was, lik!•, an AOL agent." AOL rPf'usPd to ri•1·onsic!Pr, said Derrick's ratlwr. 1>1•1111is. Tllf• morP lw thought about it. llw a11griPr Iii' got. "I lovv do I gPt bamwd for lil'P, too'!" 'v\'11lh1•rl ask1·d. Finally, aflPr Wollwrt ro111plairwd lo thP stall' attonwy gnrwral's olTlc•p and lhP NPws lwgan pursuing tlw storv. AOL rf'l1•11tc•cl a11d ridnstated 111(1 acc,;11111. "So1111•01w irnpnrsonating an Anwrira Onlilw Prnploynn is an absolute, vio­lation ol' our LPrms of' Sf'rvicn, wlwtlwr it's so!llf'Olll' 10 years old or 80 y1wrs old," said AOI. sp11kPsw1111m11 Trimy PrlmrosP. 
Man gives wife severed cat head as birthday present 
.JONESBOHO, Ark. 
;\ man got <,O days in jail for cutting the lwacl olT his cistrangPd wll"n's cal and using it lik11 a papNwnighL to hold down a thrPat­n11i11g noll' lo lrnr. Todd Anthony Loopcw. :{I, was snntm11·Pd 011 Friday f'or enmity lo ani­mals and lPr-rorislic lhrnatening. I In was also put on probation f"or a ynar and o,-d,•rf'cl lo pay $51 () in fines and court costs. Pam l.oopt•r, 23. rnported that some­one• hrokf' into lwr housP while shn was gorw Thursday and that slw found tlw cat's lwad in lwr vd1ldP, with a note that road ln part. ''I'm going Lo giw you a birthday lik,i you nPvnr will forget." Looper told police that hf' liacl ha<I 14 bnnrs in thrnr hours and did nol rPmnmlwr hurting the cat. but admitted th1i handwriting on Urn note looknd likti his. llis wife's blrthday was S1111day. 
¦6Eiiift&,wu.­
Dow 
AMEX: 
709.63
]ONES 
-,\.00 
Nasdaq;
9274.12 
246.l.42 
ij 
-'\C,.(,7 
NYSE: 
"594.10 
-.l.J6 
S&P 500: 
1261.99 

Composite
-I 105 
Volume: 
-71.58 916.400,00 
VOLUME LEADERS 
S'llMl'&ts~· I'll n·11 1111nl6~Si~ Sii61t:i rau·1: 
Ill I.L( t ll\.ll'll'I ! It  11111  +() '!,7  •tl1.(120ll  1(18,h7  
Cl\t tlSY\ll.M~ \.fl( jt{)\t)l'I ('fllll' 1·11Mlll (,1(()1!)'  C\j\\l~1;1 ., l l,I~ I'  -2.Z7 ,HJ7 .(), 71  -2.hlOII ,j ,II 7j +.J 1H.7~  112..{9 !r,7,b2 Sli.2~  
<lllAi 11 l lHU'  lHil I  ·IL'l.i  .o, il';U  \ti.Ii I  
l 0\.tl',\(' l '1\H'll lrtf \l.1 :-. Ill ,\11 Hl ,\lU 1~111 t.UIU'  ('1'0 1:,,.,;r< 11.t.()  ill.NO -~i> h.t -2.Jr-i  ~o Jl~ft -2.hlJOO •,l,2~5U  ~7.l~ 2.t)(, JJ,U,2  
II i Ii P,\IA t 'OIH'  Ai.II  -Hi Jt,  , I l >112l  2tUI  
-\\llttl\ i\tl'-/JJM  1.. iH  ·Ltlb75  [(i7.12  


ASSOCIATED PRESS 
C/\HACAS 
Sevnn years af'lnr trying to overthrow the govern­men l in a bloody coup attnmpt, former Lt. Col. Ilugo Chavez was sworn in as president Tuesday, and 11v1H1 managed to take a swipe at tlrn country's con­stitution while taking his oath. 
The crowd in Caracas's congressional hall erupted into cheers when Chavez. his rlght hand in the air and his left on the constitu­tion, broke with the tradi­tional pledge repeatod by 1wery president during 40 years or democracy. 
"I swear in t'ront of my people that over this dying constitution I will push for­ward thP democratic trans­formations that are nnces­sary so that the new repub­lic will havn an adequate Magna Carta for the times," he said. 
Chavez contends Venezunla's current consti­tution is a product of old­style patronage polltics and says a new one is needed to overhaul what he calls a corrupt political culture. 
During a two-hour inau­gural address, he said he would sign a presidnntial decree Tuesday setting up a referendum on whether Venezuelans want to form a Constituent Assembly to rewrite the constitution that, he said, will "bring legitimacy to our democra­cy." 
Ileads of statn and other dignitaries from 60 coun­tries attended the inaugu­ration, among them Cuban leader Fidel Castro, who met with Chavez into the wee hours of the morning. 
Also attending the cere­mony was Argentine President Carlos Menem, Peruvian leader Alberto Fujimori and the U.S. rep­resentative, Energy 
Secretary Bill Hichardson. 
Chavez's critics fear his call for a new constitution -and hls threats to dis­solve Congress -will only concentrate power in his hands. But the former army paratrooper insists he will bring "true democracy" to Venezuela. · 
The Chavez presidency signals a wholesale break with traditional politics in VenezuPla, whnre until now two parties -the center­left Democratic Action and center-right Copei -have alternated in power. 
"Our fathnrland is wounded in the heart. We are in a human tomb," Chavez said. lie denounced rising poverty and unem­ployment and promised to use the power of govern­ment to address people's needs instead of relying on the "invisible hand of the market." 
Chavez won a landslide victory on Dec. 6 by capital­izlng on V1rnnzuelans' angPr over corruption and declining living standards. Most of tlrn country's 23 million people live in pov11r­ty, even though Venezuela -a founding member of OPEC -has the largest oil reserves outside the Middle East. 
"My hope is the same as all Venezunlans -to put an end to corruption," said Huby Hodriguez, an activist from Chavez's leftist Flfth Hepublic Movement. 
Thousands of Chavez supporters, many wearing his trademark red beret, jammed the strnets outsidn Congress and mobbed him when he left Congress. 
Chavez opponents arc troubled by the militaristic imagery, including thn ubiquitous beret. The new president called for a big­ger roln f'or the army, which hn sald Tuesday should be used to build public works. 
Clinton's budget increases taxes 
AssoCIKfED PRESS pockets and not really accomplishing deduction without "meaningful 
a great deal,.,saicl. Bruce Josten, reform (by Congress) of the civil jus­
WASHINGTON executive vicf:l president for govern­tice system," the National Association 
The tobacco industry isn't the only ment a.ffatrs. at the·u.s, Chamber of of Manufacturers said. The manufac­target of President Clinton's budget Comm~rce. > : turers and other industries beliclVe proposals for business tax increases, ''Congressis notgoing to be duped. the civil litigation system, especially Corporate America and investors ... The likelihood of these passing Is for product liability cas,~s. l'avors pNi­would face more than 70 specific tax not high," he predicted. ple who sue over tht} companies sued. hikes and 16 loophole-closings in a Business groups expressed baffic­The change would bring the plan aimed at raising $82 billion over ment at Clinton proposing tax hikes at Treasury some $600 million over live five years. a time when the federal budget is years, the administrntion estimates. 
Wall Street, small businesses, man­expected to continue in surplus for The business groups applauded, on ufacturers. insurance companies and the next 25 years or so. the other hand, Clinton's proposal to other industry groups wore perturbed The groups are especially incensed extend the corporat.o tax credit f'or by the Clinton proposals as they about a proposaltotax companies on research and dovoloprnont. examined them Tuesd,~y. · the punitive damagPs they pay to peo­The White House, meanwhile, is 
Congress reJt~Ctt)d snrne of the ple who win civilstiits against them. particularly keen about its plans for same proposed tax increases last Under current law,, companies arn closing corporatti tax loopholns and year, and they could. run into trouble charged taxes on criminal fines they shelters. It wants, for example, to with lawmakers again. pay but dvil damages can be deduct• force companies to pay taxes on "for­
Clinton's plan is "kind ot' picking ed as a business expense. ward" sales or corporate stock in 
It would be unfair to eliminate that which a payment is deferred. 

page 6 Wednesday, February 3, 1999 
Debate 
continued from page 1 
Guerreso also said that if elected, she and Horvath hope to expand multicultural aware­ness by offering courses on dif­ferent cultures. 
"The English department offers courses on different cul­tures," said Guerreso. "We'd like tu see other academic departments do the same," Horvath added. "By expanding course o!Tcrings, we could show Saint Mary's College's commit­ment to diversity." 
Taking a closer look at their 
platform. Midden described 
how she and Little arrived at 
their goals. 
"We looked at concerns we 
had as students and took them 
to every administrator available 
from Kevin Kirwan in the din­
ing hall to Dr. Eldred." said 
Midden. 
A key part of the 
Midden/Little platform is the 
push for one study day prior to 
finals. 
"We've established a subcom­
mittee on SAC [student academ­
ic council] and formulated a 
proposal for one study clay. We 
have a tentative date set to 
make a proposal to the faculty 
assembly for one study day," 
said Midden. 
Working with faculty to open 
up Madeleva for study sessions 
is also part of their plan, said 
Little. 
Midden highlighted the idea 
of an alumnae mentoring pro­
gram. 
"What this program would be 
is focusing on pairing next 
Fast 
continued from page 1 
Board of Trustees and the administration," said Aaron Kreider. president of the Progressive Student Alliance. "We're also hoping to trans­form the campus climate so that it is more accepting of all people, regardless of sexual orientation." 
The strike begins today and will last until Friday. when the Board of Trustees will debate the change in the non-discrimi­nation clause. Kreider esti­mates that over one hundred students will participate in one form or another. 
"Most people are going to be drinking juice for the three days to keep their energy up," said Kreider. "There are a bunch of people who are only going to be drinking water ­obviously you can't go without water before you start dying. There are other people who have health problems ranging from diabetes to eating disor­ders .. . and they might just miss one meal a day or just fast from sunrise to sunset." 
Kreider and those participat­ing in the fast will meet in the dining hall to support each other. 
recycle~,,;, The Observer,, 
year's freshmen with this year's graduating sPniors who are in their academic field of interest," said Midden. "The alumnae could send care packages and the freshmen could call them with any questions they had." 
Ilnrvath had a simple expla­nation for why she and Guerreso are in the race for the presidential and vice presiden­tial positions. 
"One word sums it up: dedica­tion. We both love Saint Mary's and our number one goal is to give back as much as we can to Saint Mary's before we leave," said Horvath. 
The vision of their ticket is what makes them prime candi­datcs for th<l positions, said Midden. 
"We feel confident we can get all our goals accomplished," said Midden. 
Midden and Little both identi­fied their leadership styles as being approachable. 
"I think you have to be approachable so people feel comfortable coming to you with new ideas," said Midden. 
Little added that if she and 
Midden win, she sees Midden as 
being able to offer her guidance 
as SAC coordinator, the position 
Midden currently holds. 
"l encourage constructive criticism. J want to work with what she [MiddenJ has done and any constructive criticism she has, I'll take it," said Little. 
Guerreso said she feels confi­
dent Horvath would help her as 
SAC coordinator as well. 
"I know Janet would come to 
me and not only tell me what I 
could do better but also lead me 
in the right direction," said 
Guerreso. 
"We're going to be gathering in the dining hall for supper ­or "not supper" ... [to function} as a support group and to talk to people who are also involved. The other purpose is to be a public witness to the rest of campus," he explained. 
In addition to the fast, the PSA has planned what Kreider calls "a week of action," which includes Tuesday's speak-out in Washington Hall, as well as nightly films and prayer vigils. 
"Besides ... not eating, we're going to have several events during the fast -things that are related to the fast," he said. "[They areJ designed to educate people for some of the 
reasons  for  changing  the  
clause."  
Should  the  trustees  not  

approve the change, Kreider said their battle would not be over. 
"We're going to keep at it. We're going to keep at the issue," he said. 
Rally 
continued from page 1 
of its responsibility uvcr the conduct of its student body," Donahue said. 
Donahue also commended Notre Dame's student body president for choosing to attend and speak at Tuesday night's presentation. 
Peter Cesaro. student body president. was among the night's first speakers to voice his sentiments supporting clause revision. His ta1k traced the student senate's involve­ment with the issue and noted that the body cast 22 votes in favor of clause revision, a sig­nificant fact because the senate is one of the campus' most rep­resentative bodies. 
"I now pray and hope the University makes the right deci­sion for the students here," Cesaro concluded. 
Alyssa Hellrung, co-president of 0UTreach l\'D, the campus· unrecognized gay student group, delivered a strong call for clause revision. She moved the discussion to "real people issues" and said she was tired of talk about frivolous lawsuits, catechism and Notre Dame's perceived duties as a premier 
Summer away in DC! 
J''"• 

'. """·· .·, 
G,/4,, 
Spend your summer at the virtual pulse­point of world affairs -Washington, DC. World-renowned George Washington University offers you more than 700 courses -frorn the arts to math and computer science to human development -in the heart of official Washington. ¦ You can learn from recognized experts in ynur chosen field. Take in the museums, monuments and cultural attractions. Work out 011 miles of bike and Jogging trails. There's no place quite like Our Nation's Capital. ¦ Or, you can choose one of our study abroad programs and venture to fascinating foreign lands. 
¦ Join GW's world-class faculty and other adventurous students in an enriching exper­ience you'll never fm.-get. 
CALL 202.994.6360 FOR DETAILS. 
G cli.air 
eview, the \Journal of > . QC()Untiffg lt&~.earch, the tJ.ie faculty Af'..:Jovrnal of Ae<;ounting and ersi . d )kon(imics, and qther Je;3.ding an u'blications in,trn field. He ,. nt i\:;;,fe9~iyed a .unty'~p~itrwide
isln 
tively; ~rid 
• bachel9f''.$ 
l:thern JlUnois 
4. 
kets scholar, 
publi!ifrc.i,l
•.• ...·.... . ,, .,}\ 
religious institution. She told of her satisfaction that Notre Dame's highest policy-making body will soon consider the issue. 
"The dialogue that was just beginning when I got here has finally reached the Board of Trustees. It's come a long way." 
Hellrung.emphasized that the lack of openly homosexual adults on campus deprives the gay community of much-needed role models. She speculated that there are gays in Notre Dame's faculty that are afraid to come out. 
"Maybe their consciences tell them one thing while their employer tells them another," Hellrung said. 
In an act widely applauded by the audience, she called gay onlookers to join her on stage, stating "We are the faces behind non-discrimination." 
Associate professor of history Gail Bederman delivered a fac­ulty perspective to the evening. 
"I want to argue that the absence of a non-discrimina­tion clause hurts your educa­tion," she began. "Adding sexu­al orientation would help our academics more than joining the Big Ten." 
A pervasive atmosphere of fear stems from the University's reluctance to legally protect homosexuals from discrimina­
te,u:hing awarq at filorida 
•State in 1988 and twice was ;selected as the University's Accounting Professor of the Year. · 
KPMG provid!:)$ .a full range of assurance, tax and consult­
jng services. 
lion, Bederman explained. 
"This hurts our academic reputation," she said, referring to an image of intolerance and academic closed-mindedness. She also cited closed avenues of learning such as gay literature, and lamented that many stu­dents do not have the chance to meet and know homosexual classmates. 
Earlier in the evening, College Democrats vice presi­dent David Hartwig read a let­ter from a prominent gay alum­nus, filmmaker Don Roos. 
"Living in the closet back then was a necessity," Hoos wrote. "We could have used a non-discrimination clause back then and we need one now." 
Hartwig also read a letter from Father David Garrick, an openly homosexual priest and prol'essor who left Notre Dame's faculty last March cit­ing discrimination by the University. The letter praised students for spearheading the campus' ongoing clause revi­sion movement. 
More than 100 students attended the College Democrats-sponsored presenta­tion that College Democrat president Jay Smith said he hoped would further enlighten and inform people about the issue of sexual orientation dis­crimination on campus. 
VIEWPOINT 
Wl'dnesday, fdm1ary 3, l')99 os~ERVER --------------------------page 7 
THE OBSERVER 
Nonu DAM~ OHll I·: l'.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. IN 46'i5(, (219) 6.H-7471 SAINI M,\RY\ 01+1n: .lO'J I laggar, Nntr, Dame, IN 4(,'i56 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
FI>ITOH-IN-CIIIIJ' 
I kad,cr Cocb MANA<;L-...<; Fn1nrn Bt iSINflS MA NAG Lit 1\,1.111 ltc-i11d1Jlc-r Ky!. Carlin 
A~,,~1AN·r MANM:INC Ernn>R tlc,tthC'r M.u.:KC"nzic 
NI-W\ EUIIOH:. ..MiLhdli:-Krnf1,1 AnvFRTJ.\ING MANM,t-:R......................Brr.m Lutz V11.wrotN'f l'nrmu .... ......... EtlnarJ., Uull Au 1>,.,1GN MANA<;flt. ...................... llrc;t Hueh11 SroH I\ Et>1·roH ...K.11 l1lt.·c11 l.opC"'t. SvsrEMS MANtHa-:R ........ Michael Broui!le-t s, 1NI l'1>11'0H,.........................S.ual, P)•lag C<»NTROl.l.tR ..•.. .,, .............................l>.ivc Rogen> 
Kri.,u Klit.\dt Wt:11 AUMINISIKATO!l .......................Allisun Knlla SAINI' MA!!Y'\ l'DITOR .... M. Sk11111n11 Ryon GitAPIIJCS f.l>ITOR ............................. l'ete Cildla PIIOHI ErnmH ....................Krvin 1l:tl11m 
Ihe t )t\'4..'rvt'r" 1ht· 111dt'f't:mlc1u 11rw,1•,1pt•1 p11hl1J1t·d h)' 1hi: ,1ude1u~ o, th1: llnWt!1'11y of N11ul' n.uilt' du i.;ic Jntl "unu \~Jry\ ( ·ollt~t· ll (loei. nm lll't"'•lllly rdln..t 1ht· pnlillC!-of ~he." ;1dminis11.11ion oft·idu:r_1m,t11L1ti111~. '11,~ llt"W\ i, h'J~irh.,'tl ,!' ,tLLIU.udy ,uul oh1«·u\-'dV .t'I-pm'l-1hlt·, Um1~11nl 1,luon.11, u:prc,'M.:nt the opnuun nl ,ht· m.ljUrlt)' ul the hl1WM11•{ 'h,d. M.uu~in~ l·diwr, t\"i,1,1111 M,m,1~i11g hlnor md tkp;1rmwnt r1litor.\. _( '.onum·111.1rit'\, kttrn and u1hin1nll 1,ro,·11t du: \'!l'\\'\ nf du,: .1111liw ,. ,mJ not m·l't\\oirily thmt· ol l'lll' l llN.'l"\'L'l. V1..wpoini ·'fl.ILe b nv,ul,1hl,: m i!II mC'ml,i:·1, 11I 1hC" ~om· I),m,c/.'iJ1t11 M.ny', n1111nmni1y ,md rn .,II rc,\\ltn. The ln.'f c1'pr~,.in11 of v.1.rying opinion~ 
il111111W1 lrtll"J\ 1, l·mt1UJ..L~nl 
Con1aqi11g The~ 
l·.d11m-in-( 'h1rt (dl-4)42. Hmincs'i OH1cc.-(,.Jl-'i.>1.'l M.u1.1~111g Fd11u1/A,.,i,1.m1 Ml· fdl ./4141 ~dverrh.in~ (,j l-6900/R840 Nt'w,/Pho10 (dl*).l2.l Sv'item~ 6.il-88j9 \pnm 6.ll-4'>4.l !'.ix 6.\1-6')27 ,nncl-'11111 M.rv, C,11-'1540 Viewpui111 E-M.,il Vi<wpoim. l@nd.edu !1,1y FJ11or/Vie,~po11l! <dl-5.IO.~ Ad E-Mail ohscrver!!Vd.1rw111.cc.nd.edu l )ftitc M.111,1~nllic11cr.1I l11li1J111.11io11 (,,11-7471 New, E-M.il ub:,;crvcr.oh:.1icws. lC!.~n<l.edt1 
¦ EDITORIAL 
Midden/Little Set Standard 
Tlw stn•ngths of the candidates for student I lorvath and Guerreso strive to meet the stu• 
Lost data. The computer labs around cam­body president and vice president ensure that dents' needs and demands of the College. Their 
In our very computer-oriented pus are filled to overflowing at Saint Marv's will enter the new millnnnium in dedication is not in question, but rather the fea­
world, there is oftAn nothing worse times with studenL'i busily finishing safo hands. sibility of their ideas. 
than losing work on which hours class projects and papers. Do we The tickets of Janet Ilorvath/Gina Guerreso Horvath and Guerreso's platform lists major 
have been spent. We curse the really think about what we'rn doingand Nancy Midden/Angi11 Little have inspiring undertakings lik,~ designing a meal plan opUon 
thunderstorm that with all this infor­idnas, ronrnrn for the student'>, leadership, and and creating specific classes on multicultural­
cuts power for a mation we pride in Saint Mary's. llowever. Midden/Little ism. While these would benefit the college com­
split second, or the resnarch, rewrite
Julie A.
has tho oxlra spark and experience that The munity, opposition is inevitable. 
diskette that sud­and print out? ObsPrvcr bolicwcs will successfully usher Saint Horvath and Guerreso's primary goal of 
denly decides to I suppose what Mary's into its third century of educating improving dining hall services raises the most 
develop a bad sec­I'm saying is that
Ferraro 
women. concern. 
tor. Such incidents we nend to keepTheir ideas aro fe1Lc;ible; they huve done their The candidatos did not meet with dining hall 
only serve to con-our nyes open to homework. and they have concrete plans on managers before including this as a campaign 
firm that life is fleeting; nothing the wonders on all sides of us. how lo rnrl'y out their goals. Midden and Little goal. We think this is a short-sightedway to run 
lasts forever. Before too long, it may all be lost said they have spoken to everybody from man­a campaign and calls their planning into ques­
Every year or so, "upgraded" data. Then we may not be able to agers in the dining hall to Saint Mary's prcsi­tion. 
programs appear in stores, "new" remember the beauty of the tree on cfont Marilou Eldred in order to realize the fea­Horvath and Guerreso said they discussed 
and "improved" to make our lives the quad that was uprooted to make sibility of thoir idlHls. It shows in their platfonn. I.heir ideas with the vjce presidentfor student 
easier. We've just gotten used to room for new construction, or the Their research shows in ideas like instituting affairs, but we do notthink this is an adequate 
Windows 95, and here comes baseball game when a close friend a study day during finals week, celebrating a way ofassessing the probability of their plans. 
Windows 98. We are left wondering hit a home run to win it all. winter carnival, beginning an alumnae work­Midden and Little, however. did manage to 
if all the money spent is worth the All these moments run together to shop and mentor program and creating thP meet with managers to discuss improvements 
trouble of loading and reloading, make our lifo. It is a glorious thing. position oftcdrnology c()mmissioner. for the dining hall. Midden and Little said they 
debugging and reading user's man­When we go to our "final reward," Although ttwir cmnpaign highlights weighty were told this idea would be counterproductive 
uals. we won't really be judged on how issuos, ttu, candidnuis also focus on promoting to include on a platform. 
Personally, my home computer much we know. The importantfun and rolaxation. ideas like the winter carni­Because Saint Mary's dining services are con­
runs on DOS, with a menu program things will be how we used all the val and improvement of Saint Mary's Pride Day trolled by Sedexho Ma1Tiott, Horvath and 
designed more than ten years ago. I splendid resources God has provid­offor ways for studenL-; to gel the best out or Guerreso probably will rull lrito problems in like it that way. The computer does ed -nature, tcchnolohry, relation­their college years. trying to redesign part ofthe corporation's sys-· 
what I want it to do, so I don't need ships. To bn aware of each moment It is also important to note that Midden and tem. 
more. High tech is fine, but too now, to make the best use of each Little have the future of Saint Mary's in their In addition, the candidates seem vague on 
much technology can defeat the moment, will enable us to approachminds. (;oals like implementing a tochnoJogy achieving ways to keep student.,; socially 
purpose. the future with a more open mind. commissioner and creating the alumnae work­involved on campus and creating department 
For proof of this, look at the We will be bettnr able to handle the shop wnuld serve the College beyond their courses in multiculturalism. 
Amish (a drive southeast of campus good and the bad, and not worry y,.,nrs nt Saint Mary's. How,wer, one of Horvath and Guerreso's 
to Nappanee will provide such a half so much about what "mightMidclun and Little's expnrience speaks for strongest points is that they continually stressed 
first-hand experience). They have have been." iL-;elf. A<; student body vice president and coor­pro-01oting multiculturalism at SaintMary's, a 
no electricity in their homes. They The neat thing about "lost data" is dinator of'Student Academic Council, Midden point missing on Midden and Uttle's list. 
drive horse and buggies. They farm that it can be recreated. It is never has dmm an out-;tanding job accomplishing Creating a handbook of campus clubs and 
with horse-drawn plows. They have loo late lo bngin enjoying life. It is goals like instituting a major-of-the-week pro­organizations is an idea we hope whoever 
rejected technology on the premise never to late to repair a broken gram and working closely with tho admissions becomes president will adopt. The handbook 
that it pulls people away from God. friendship, correct a mistake. Ten oilier.. A'> junior class president, Little has would serve as an effective means of encourag­
They arc prayerful people who years from now, our hcarl'i will rest dnmonstrntPd her lC'adership abilities as well. ing students to learn about and become 
enjoy the simple things in life. easier bncause we took that first They also have a strong background with one involved in various activities. 
Should we not emulate thorn in step.anotlmr, having sorvod a.s sophomorn president We stress concern that neiU1er candidato 
this appreciation'? As we go about 
and class prrsident. focusf'd on all-inclusive groups like the Feminist 
our daily business, should we not Julie :1. Ferraro ·s colllmn runs 
i\pproachuhlfl, confident and enllmsiastic u.re Collective. 
"stop and smell tho roses?" The every other W<'dnesday. 
wordf; Midd(1n usNJ to doscribn horsolf' as a Although the choico wa..:; ditlicult. we arn con­
bells from Sacred Heart ring out the 11ie 11iews expressed in this col­
leader. WP agnm with lwr and think that tlrnsn fidrnt l\tidden and Little are the best leaders for 
quarter hour; do we hear the umn are those oftlw author and not 
qua!itif's descriht.• how Midd,m und Littlt> would Saint Mary's. Their ideas, planning and enthu­
chimes? The swans glide along the necessarily those qf11w Observer. 
work l.ognt.lrnr and snrvn t.lrn studPnt body. siasm deline the Saint Mary's woman. 
lake; do we noticn them'? 
¦ DOUN rS''!f.'V GARRY TRUDEAU
t. [l .••·' 
¦ 0UOTE OF THE DAY 
MY.ACCaJNr/5ACTIVfJANI? l<iiTHA~ OKAY/ I'M CFF/ I /MM£11/All3!)'Mt//(13 ,.,7JleM:19PAQ OP!i/v'el?, I!?£· A Slil<l!:G ~ 7ci/tlPR£-LOA[)NJ ~63 
rHeM/11?­
, , I ]hy? Because Stone
l'a!i/T 71?Af;l;!;, lf//1HMY6f?&A7lff5T/JK­..,IMAt&';tl!?Y Off/ MYl&lv ftJ!xJ/?8 !N 7Ho 71JCH ~... W40~. I /?£C//:li
ANl?HP!; 
Y Y Cold said so -and 
\ 
ti!?ANl?.1 ~ABReAKANP 60FOR a:Jfft:13, 
that's the bottom line.' 
-"Stone Cold" Steve Austin 

VIEWPOINT 
page 8 ~------------------------
----------------Wednesday, February 3, 1999 
¦ LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Students and Alumni Unite in 
Opposition to Big Ten 
(Editor's Nole: The Followin_g let­ter was rewritten by Brian Kennedy, ND '94, after he received ilfrom afellow alum. lie sent it to ten of his friends and within 24 hours he had received oiier 150 e­mails from across the nation. It has been reprinted here with the names ofthose that responded in support of his letter.) 
I am a 1994 graduate of the University and currently work for Ernst & Young in their full athletic conference. 
\By playing football in the Big Ten. Notre dame would be forsak­ing, to a large extent, its contacts close participation with its wide­spread alumni community. Those who live outside the Midwest states truly measure the opportunity to see our team play from lime to time in their own backyard. For our many alumni who do not pay close attention to academic devel­opments at the University. fighting 
Joanne Ryan '94, Dean Busack '97, Matt Griffin '98, Alexander Abraldes '90, Kim Schwaiger '97, Ryan Aylward '97, Mike Glasstetter '94, Christine M. Debevec '98, Rich Czuchlewski '98, Karen (Grondin) Maher '94, Matt Umscheid '93, Katie (Gorman) Duffy '95, Colleen Ryan '98, Joe Minadeo '91, Sean Hyer '94, Tracy (Valentine) Hyer '94, Chris Caracciolio '95, Sean Creedon '98, James Bicego '97, Edward Adams '98, Lisa Monaco '95, Dave Powell '95, Krista Zimmerman '97, 
Chicago. Through Sean LaSalle '97, Ted thP friendships fos­Miller '97, Barbara A. tered in my years at 'ONCE THE UNIVERSl'IY BECOMES INVOLVED Merriam '96, Christine Notre Dame and my Marsch '98, Timothy Fair
IN THE BIG TEN, A COMPLEX WEB OF
contact with col­'98, Erin Fair '99, Tim leagues and clients, I Kearney '98, Colin
ACADEMIC, FINACIAL AND ATHLETIC RELATION­
have had the plea­O'Reilly '98, Mary Jane sure of working and SHIPS MAY PREVENT IT FROM THEREAFTER MAIN-Kennedy, Dennis socializing with Kennedy, Troy Phillips
TAINING ITS DISTINCT MSSION IN THE FACE OF
many alumni of '97, Erin Schnicker '95, 
Notre Dame. As a 
SUCH CONFERENCE DEMANDS.'
result of the recent press coverage con­cerning the University's potential membership in the Big Ten. I am sending you the following letter to express the views of the undersigned. 
Membership in the Big Ten is a complicated issue, and is being dri­ven. from Notre Dame's perspec­tive, by the opportunity to partic­ipate in academic and research opportunities shared among mem­bers of that conference. We under­stand that the prospect of partic­ipating in this academic consor­tium has received a very favorable response from the faculty Senate and the Administration. We sup­port efforts to enhance our stature among the elite research universi­ties in the nation. However, we are opposed to the surrender of Notre Dame's independence as a condi­tion of joining such a consortium. 
A significant concern is that in losing its independent status, Notre Dame may fall under the jurisdic­tion of administering bodies of the Big Ten that are controlled by schools that have no interest in, and who have, on occasion been hostile to, the concept of Catholic education. We have concerns that the Big Ten might try to dictate "politically correct" policies to Notre Dame which are contrary to the policies of the University, or Catholic teaching. Once the University becomes involved in the Big Ten, a complex web of acade­mic, financial and athletic relation­ships may prevent it from there­after maintaining its distinct mis­sion in the face or such conference demands. Notre Dame is a great institution because it dared to be different despite the challenges of doing so. We would hate to see that difference compromised by submission to regulating public institutions that themselves answer to the whims of state legislatures. 
We are also concerned by the Big Ten's apparent insistence that there be a linkage between athletic and academic participation. i would expect the faculties of the Big Ten should favor Notre Dame's academic inr.lusion regardless of complete athletic participation. If not, that would indicate a lack of respect for Notre Dame research and scholarship, and the University would gain little by joining. If Big Ten school want an association with us for our academic preemi­nence, one would think that could be achieved without having to join Irish football provides a special link with the school. 
We are also concerned that if our team becomes obligated to play the likes of Indiana, Illinois and Minnesota every year, the program will sink into mediocrity. We can­not imagine that the team will have continuing success in recruit­ing players from such states as California, Texas and Florida if we play teams far from the players' homes before, at best, a regional audience. We fear for the televi­sion contract with NBC that funds minority scholarships, and we worry about whether we will ever get to see the team play again in Boston, Seattle, Arizona or else­where around the country. One hundred years of unique Notre Dame football tradition -playing any team. any Saturday. anywhere -will be irretrievably lost. And I understand the University would be required to spend significant monies upgrading various other athletic facilities -which is a pri­ority that will not be positive to many supporters. 
Truly, the alumni and other sup­porters I've talked with and the many young alumni that have signed this letter below view the issues much broader than just football, but of what Notre Dame as an institution has been, is, and wants to be. We hope that the University can form a first class academic and research consortium with Big Ten schools, or with other great institutions such as Duke, Stanford, Tulane and Georgetown, without sacrificing its unique char­acter and tradition and potential for leadership that -it inspired in us. 
Thank you for the opportunity to express this opinion on this impor­tant matter. 
Brian Kennedy '94 
Sean O'Reilly '94, Robert King '94, 
Mike McKay '91, Jonathan Steele '98, James O'Brien Waters '96, Meggan Newland '98, Erik Burns 
'98, Heathtr Wiley '95, Amanda 
Sabuco '98, Tracy Kennedy, Mike 
Mitchell '98, John J. Merriam '96, Michael Warbel (ND Law), Petra 
Farrell, Charles Farrell '98, Adin McCann '98, Jill Reinauer '98, Brian 
Schultz '98, Megan Simpson Fereday '98, Catherine Thomas '98, Brian Loftus '98, Mark Mikiciuk '97, 
Christopher Hupf, Kristi Busack Paolina '92, Joe Gavigan '94, Stephen Goldschmidt '96, Neil Zender '98, Mary McNutt '97, Benjamin Balk '95, Ryan McLean '98, Giovana Cataldo '97, Erin Clary '98, Joe Carroll '95, Andrew Seng '99, Joe Duffy '95, Dennis McVeigh '91, Nicole Bohn '96, Martin R. Phelan '95, Joseph E. Ryan '58, Katie Wheeler '98, Mike Pavis '95, Rocky Simmerano '95, Jon Norris '92, '94, Duane Cobenais '97, Mark Shander '94, '97, Rupert Aguila '97, Anthony Tedeschi '95, Brian Lorigan '93, Greg Piniak '95, Dan Delgado '97, Sara Thaler '98, Patrick Skidmore '95, Dan Farrell'95, Edward Quinn '94, Daniel T. McConnell '98, Jen Rubner '98, Jim Beranek '94, Chris Fereday '96, Kay Thiede '98, Cecilia Emery '96, Tara Healy '93, Paul Lopach '94, Danielle Busack '95, Katie Marchetti '94, Matt Casey '95, David Bucolo, Alyssa A Donnelly '97, John J. Jennings '95, Joe Nocera '97, Jennifer Ramirez '97, Christian Ramirez '96, Linda Raven '95, Linda Raven '95, Mark Engel '94, Daniel McVeigh '60, Amy C. Cashore '92, Francesca Rose Bianco '92, Patrick Gorman '00, Harry Zembillas '94, Eric Hintz '96, Meghan O'Brien '98, Marc Lafleur, David Lynkins '96, Christopher Millar '97, Mark Millar '89, Brian Condit '92, Daniel T. Sheridan '94, Richard Barfield '97, Douglas Wright '97, Dennis Ciancio '95, Bob O'Toole '98 Brent Tadsen '96, John L. Butler '96, Doug Ingram '91, Katy Hart '93, Mark Teaken '97, John Fultz, Kelly Cronin '98, Kevin Nelson '93, Deborah Jo Shulkowski '91, Ryan McLean, Brad Billick, Holly Michael '98, Jay Millar '93, Christopher Sforzo '94, Doug Lohse '98, '99, David Buckley '97, Elizabeth Ballegeer '97, Larry Barone '60, Adrienne Franco '98, 'O I, Patrick Gorman '97, Lisa Barry '98, Bob Fincutter '97, Robert Seaman '99, Spencer Stefko '99, Todd Mitchell '98, Joe Kv.utzen '98, Kathleen Jordan '98, David Eichstadt '98, Eileen Dunne '99, Elizabeth Lazarra, Michael Hicks, Matthew Pechman '96, Kevin Millar '90, Tim O'Malley '95, Anne Hudson '98, Tom Mullarkey '97, Matt Barone '96, Susan Lochner '93, Jonathan O'Reilly '96, Tim Morrison '91, Paul Raven '84, Matt Gunter '96, Eduardo Llull '99, Amee Appel, Dave Fantz '98, Phil Koserowski '96, Martin Thomas '68, Stephen Shulkowski '90, Brandon Williams '99 
We 
Hypocrites 


I have just come from the rally in Washington Hall addressing the need for an addition to the anti-discrimination clause. I heard a great deal of rhetoric, and unfortunately not very much coherence, not even from the respected adults invited to speak. I even heard lies, e.g. the one about Fr. Malloy's presentation to us Dillonites last week. It was staled during the rally that Fr. Malloy did not address the issue of the clause; that is not true. He explained exactly why he did not believe there should be a change. It is true that later on someone asked him a question to which there could not be a truth-reflecting answer, and so he refused to respond; he did however address his reasons for not supporting the clause change in some detail. I could go on to detail the problems I found with this rally, but then The Observer wouldn't print the letter because of length. 
My mission in this letter is not to trash the rally anyway. After ref1ecting upon what was presented in the rally, and more so how it was presented, I think it prudent to illustrate just how absurd we students are. I pick up the paper this morning to find headlines like "Thousands Flee Paramilitary Violence in East Timor," and "Dissidents Claim a Mortar Raid in Teheran," and numerous other stories illustrating great injustice occurring around the world. Meanwhile, on the campus of the premier Catholic university in America, we are whining about how there isn't legally binding protection for a very small group of people. Let us ask the orphaned children of Timor if they care about our feelings. Let us ask the people of Teheran whether they care about anti-discrimination clauses. My guess is that their answer will be no. We engage in a fight which is silly. If we are really so very concerned about liberty and justice for all then we would forget about our small problems under the Dome and agitate for real justice for those who don't have any -the vic­tims of' genocide, oppression, and real, deadly, and ever-present hate all over the world. Phil Donahue spoke or protesting war. He compared the cause of homosexuals on campus to the cause of' peace in Vietnam. That comparison is absurd. Let us agitate for real peace, real truth, real justice for those whom it really matters and forget our petty differences. Maybe then we'll have a chance at the Kingdom on earth in fulfill­ment. 
Nathaniel Hannan 
joint major in rheology and philosophy Freshman, Dillon Hall 

-·­
VIEWPOINT 
Wnlncsday, February 3, 1999 ------------------os~fRvER page 9 
¦ UCLA 
Ethnicity Doesn't Always Imply Allegiance 
(U-WIHlil LOS ANGELES, Calif. 
Evt)ry onco in while somo ignoramus leads mn lo look in tlm mirror and ponder the inevitnbifi questions evf'ry American person of color docs LhroughnuL their lives, "Do I look Amoricun'! Will I ev11r'? Or rl()es boing 1\mericnn require the rnrn commodity of blond hair and hlue Hyns'?'' 
l\s II d1ilct who grnw up watdiing re•runs of "ThC' Brady Bunch" and eating TV dinners. tluise quuslions newr seetn()d to cross mv star•spangh?d mind. I always considered· myself as i\merinm as i.tpplu pfo; as American 
11.s thC' dream boasted to children in far-away lands. Unfortunately, as I grew older I real­iz,,rJ that percnptions un) onn thing, and skin tonn 1tnothnr. 
It seems lhnl no matter how old I get. or how long I spond in this country, I am p•irp11t­ually r1~mindod of tlrn fact that I am an out­sider looking in. And sndly, despite all my nlforts. I will mwer hn what people allude to whr.n they spnuk of the "All American girl." Tak11, for <•xam1M. an oncounter I had while crawling alnng Lhl' 405 Frmiway en route to 1lw Hirport last week. As wn wnavud in and out of traffic. thC' middln-aged shuttle driver l'<•lt rnmpPll1•d to start small 
talk. On thn otlwr hand. I was content to rC'ad mv enthralling [f!Xthook in the  'IALWAVS CONSIDERED MYSELF AS AMERICAN  be. Take, for example, my friend, who was born in Poland and immigrated at  
climlv-lit cabin. lltit lwing tlw social but­t1•rlly that I nm, I f'dt oblig- AS APPLE PIE; AS AMERlCAN AS THE DREAM BOASTED TO  the age of six. The irony is that because she has blond hair and blue eycs no one  
1•d to t>llgagii in conversu­ CHILDREN IN FAR-AWAY  will ever ask her, "v\:11en~  
tion. l>id Im ask my ago or my major':' Did 1111 inquin· about mv f'ul.ur(I ran'l'r  LANDS. UNFORTUNATELY, AS I GREW OLDER I REALIZED  arn you from." On the other hand, Iwill constant• ly l'ace questions such as  
aspiratii;ns'! No, of 1·01irs1• lw didn't; s111:h n<•utrnl q11eri1•s w,•rn out of thn  THAT PERCEPTIONS ARE ONE THING, AND SKIN TONE  tlwso for the rnst of mv li['o -despite the !'act that I was horn here.  

qw•stion. PrPdictably, as so ANOTHER.' many bl'li.irn him, he inquired about my (•thnirity and thr~n 1.0 further m.:aspPrntc the situation he eomplinrnntcd nw on my English prolicicn­r·y. "You SJll'ak English so well. ilow long haw you b1!Pl1 lwrP'?" I resisted the urge to punch him, and r11spnndnd, "Sinco birth," and left it at that. 
It was the same foeling I get when people ask anotlwr orw of my l'avorite qm~stions. "Whnrn am ynu from'?" The simplo answor ­San ,,.rancisco -1rnvPr seems to suffice. Most nf'tlw timu tlw inquinir stares at me as if ellipsns lingnr in llio air, as if'they expect me to sit<' somr cxotic lornlc I was born in and dnscrihP my c.lnring voyagP to America. Ocrnsionally, rlwy'll compm1sate for my lark of' <hitail with, "No, I mmm where were you 1.mrn'?" or "No, I nuian wlwni are your par· ,inls from." 
Thn problnm with this query is that bnsides h1iing utt11rly offt•nsive, it 111icits a response morn 1:omplPx than superficially appart•nl. The• int.-rest ol' lhe spnaknr excn11ds mere g<•ogrnphy or culturnl euriosity. Depending on who asks thn question, it can be inlerpreted as either "Are you orw of us?'' or "Are you ono of them'?" It follows that the response to this question is actually a produnrn.tion of al!Pgiancn. 
My ethnicity has been a topir. of'interest evtir sincn I 1:an n•membcr. People are never quite ablo to pinpoint my origins. Most of the timti pooplC' comp1msatP for their conli.tsion by lumping me into one of various categories ­usu/lily dolining nw ns Mexican. 
ThLc; is not surprising. being that we live in a soci{,tv that revolves around the idea of lumping. W11 lump pHople into economic bracknts. WP lump pooplo according to reli­gion. W,i lump peopltl according to political atnliatiou. In fnct. wo all began lumping in high school wlwn wo first identilied the nerds, the cool kids and the robds. 
It almost seems logical to lump, being thal catogoriiing is bas,id on simplilic,~tion, and through categorization we bettnr understand the world around us. But the problem L'i that this phenomenon of lumping leads to sterno­typing and generalizations. Soon, distinctions are so vividly drawn that it becomes a matter of us versus them. 
Of evon moro immedi,tte concern is I.he fact that lumping robs tho individual of his or her identity. Taku, for example, when people ask mo, "Arn you Mexican?" l"'his infi.Jriates me for two reasons. First, I am Puerto Rican and Salvadoran, two 1;ultures completely differt1nt from the Mexican one. Toclassify me in a cat• egory which I do not belongto robs me of tny culture and identity. 
Furthermore, if people really must ask about my ethnidty, why can't they ask about it dirnctly without first ma.king assumptions. Not every person with brown skin is Mexican. Moreover. the funny thing is that these assumptions vary regionally. Here everyone thinks I'm Mexican. ·when I visited Florida everyone thought I was Cuban. lf I go to New York, maybe people will finally get it right. 
My second problem with Jumping peoplo into ethnic categories is that it only seems to happen to people of color. I don't go up to (Wtiry Caucasian I see ttnd say "Ar<l you IrL<1h," nnd ncith()r does anyone else. TM thought doesn't cross our minds. Every Cam.::asiau is American. Puriod. It Is, however, acc(',ptable to go up to every Latino and say, "Aro you Mexican'?" This serves as a constant reminder of' the double standard within society. 
ll also scrvr.s as a constant remindor that I will always be viewed as an out'>ider no mat­ter how American I may 
The epitome of this is the 
question, "What nationality 
are you'?" Nationality is 
synonymous with citizenship. 
My natinnality, therefore, is American and 
my ethnicity is Puerto Rican and Salvadoran. 
YPt people stare in awe if I respond 
"Amorir.an" to this question. Much like when 
asking ii' I'm Mexican robs me ofmy ethnic 
heritage, asking my nationality (and meaning 
ethnicity) robs me ol' my American identity. Is 
it that hard to believe that a person can dwoll 
within two cultures'? !\'loreover, is it truly a 
coincidimce that people use the terms ethnici­
ty and nationality interchangeably'? 
I rcmmnbnr when I was a child and race 
never senmed to matter. Children of all back­
grounds playnd together without need for 
interrogation. It was only as I "grew up" that 
race lwcame a defining characteristic of both 
sell' and olhers. Then people began asking me 
to choose -choose a language, choose a cul­
tuw, choose f'riends, choose your aJliance. I 
chosn both and that made me an outsider. 
Rut the truth is that I already was an out­
sider. 
Throughout my life people have referred to 
me as exotjc. This term, abridges the porcep­. tinn many fellow Americans have ofme. 
Exotic is defined by Webster's dictionary as 
"B1>longing by nature or origin to another 
part of the world: foreign; strangely different 
and fascinating." A rug or a bird is exotic, hut 
l'm a.bout as domestic as you can get. More 
importantly. I'm a person. When ptiople call 
me exotic it makes me feel like imported chat­
tul. 
No person should be made to reel that way. 1am not exotic. I am not a minority. I'm just ns American as any ofmy t'alr•halred coun• tcrparLo;;. Thoroin lies tho cause of racial con· llict in this countrv. 
Until poople begin to n•alit.e that skin tone does not necessit,ite allegiance or nationalil.y, thew, will ncvor be equality and wo wtH never supersede the racial inequities this country was founded upon. 
Alicia Hoca is a columnist/or the Dail!! /Jruin at the University ofCalifomia-1.os Angeles. This column originally ran in the Daily Bruin on Jan. 29 and ha.,; been reprint­ed here courtesy ofthe U-Wire. 
The l!iew.<; expressed iri this c:olumn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of1'he Observer. . 
¦ LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Ex Corde 
Ecclessiae: It's Time to Follow the Recipe 
Got a story to tell you. All about a friend of mine down North Carolina way. Well, my friend owned a McDonald's, just likc1 his father and his father before him, all the way back as far us one could tell. Now, back in those days, McDonald's didn't have writ.ten rngulations on how to make their burgers. You just kinda' knew how. The recipe was passed down from f'ather to son and you just followed right along. Grade A beef, tho best ingre­
c.lirrnts. ancl so on. takes to b,~ a Nobody needed writ­"Catholic" univnr­ten directions sity. I rncom­i\cause 1werybody meml that you knnw. And when niad l•:x you went to a Cordn McDonald's sometinw. rnslaurant. It's not a you wern IIPW sum Lo get a rPcipn. McDonald's It does burger. not 
Wnll, my 
giv1i friend was 
COil· 
a restless 
trol kind of' 
of the guy. So, 
uni­onn clay 
v11rsi­he fig-. 
ty to ured: 
tlrn "Why 
bish­don't I try 
op; it some or 
dons this Grade not B beef threat­instnad of on stu­the Grade A dnnts' l'vp always l'inancial used? It's a aid !sen whole lot Knnnoth D. clrnaper and WhitPlwad, most people say Catholic it's easier to chew Collngns and and swallow." So, he Funding started using the Grade (Ignatius Prnss 
B. And from most outside . 1988)(; it dons not 
appearances, it worked. Thn people who only occasionally ate at McDonald's never noticed the difference. And as for the fre­quent customers, the ones who really knew how a McDonald's burger should taste? Well, they complained at first, but after a while they got used to the taste, things quieted down nand busi­
ness went on as usual. 
A couple of years later, McDonald's headquarters found out what was happening. Somebody had switched to Grae.le B hlicf' and was selling it as a McDonald's burger! This could not he and action must be taken. Apparently, the unwritten recipe was no longer enough. So, McDonald's headquarters wrote down the recipe and sent it out to 
a.II the McDonald's restaurants everywhere. The recipe was the one that McDonald's had always followed; the only difference was that it was now in writing. The note accompanying the recipe was simple: Make your burgers with the official McDonald's recipe or stop calling yourselves a "McDonald's" restaurant. 
So my friend has a choice to 
make: follow tho recipe and rnmain a McDonald's restaurant or change the name of tho rnstau• rant. It's as simple as that. 
* * * * 
Docs this little story sound familiar" Well. my friend is Notrn Dame; McDonald's headquarters is the Catholic Church; and the "recip,~" is the papal docunrnnt Ex 
Corde Ecclessiae which lays 
out exactly what it 
threaten the rnligious fre<!· dom of non-Catholic studnnts; and it does not threaten tnrn academic frnedom or institutional autono­my. Everything it culls !'or was practiced consistently by all Catholic universities about 40 years ago. Tho only diffornnce is that Notre Dume (like so many others) changed the rncipn. Now the Catholic Church has put the recipe into writing. The choico is yours Notre Dame: Will wn follow Ex Corde Ecclessiae and bP Catholic or will we shorten our name to Notro Danw: A University'? 
I for ono can only pray that Notre Dame will wholeh11artedly repeat the words of' thnir own ratlrnr Bill Wack, who upon rnturning from St. Louis this 
weekend said: "In tlrn words of' the youth this week: 'J.l'.11, wo love you!' By the grace of' God, may we have tlw courage to put his teaching into practice." Amen. 
Will Esser 
Law School, Third Year January 31, 1999 

O
THE 
page lO Wednesday, February 3, 1999
BSERVER 


Silkk the Shocker 
Made Man 
Priority Records 
** ( out of five) 
Made /\Jan, the follow up to Silkk's sophomore album Charge It 2 /Jct r;ame, produces much of tho sanH' hip hop that has made ~laster P and '.\lo Limit Hcrorrls very profitable and pop­ular in today's hip hop industry. With this rnlease, however, one must ask oneself if No Limit Hecords is losi11g its originality and edgf' which made made it so popular just a ye,ar ago. Silkk the Shocker, :\faster P's baby brothl'r, takes gangsta rap to entertaining extremes at limns in Made Man, but hfl falls quite short in comparison to Charge It 2 Da Game. Made Man contains much of the same up-tmnpo vocals by Silkk sPt to thP background of No Limit Records' signature stripped-down beats, melodic hooks and ruffneck melodramatics. It also, as always,· contains a number of popular guest appearances of No Limit Tank members such as Master P, C-Murder, Mystikal, Mia X, Fiend and Sons of Funk. In comparison to previous releases, Charge It 2 Da Game and The Shocker, Made Man does not belong in the same league or on the same label as such greats as Ghetto Dope. This third album contains few highlights or original ideas not found on any other No Limit Records album released in the last five months. In the past year, No Limit Hecords, with ~astnr Pat the lrnlm, has managod to rnlnase well over a 150 compact discs. Made Man rehashes a numbrir of previous songs such as "IL Ain't ~ly Fault 2," but fails to add any cre­ativity or originality to ii. It is almost as if there\ wnrn no more stories of' drugs, guns, death or ghetto lifo to be retold; a possible problem f"or ttrn former New Orl<1ans stnwt hustler who grew up in Third Ward Calliope Projects in New OrlC\ans. 
Although the album is rather uninteresting, it does contain a highlight or two. One can be found in the song "Al I Because of You." The lyrics are unoriginal but what makes it 01w of the few highlights is the samplo of "Sukiyaki" in an old school heat box style. 
All in all, Master P might have to temporaily give up acting or spending as much time on the basketball court and come back to the stu­dio to produce quality records if No Limit Records wants to stay in business. 
Robert Calleros 
Ever since it was mercilessly wrestled away from its rightful Danish mothc.rl.and 
in 1658, Sweden's southernmost 
province of Scania has always bef'n a noteworthv standout. In recent vears, it has gained atte.ntion for registering the highest YES vote in tlrn 1994 Swedish national ref'enmdum on European Union (EU) membership and initiating construction of the soon to be completed bridge­Ii n k between itself and the Danish capital Copenhagen. But perhaps Scania is best known for being the place where Sweden's hottest band, The Cardigans, both record and mix their hit records. 
Ilaving luckily been able to escape many of the traditional ABBA legacy questions that burden many of their fellow Swedish musicians, The Cardigans' first album LIFE earned them a clever niche with happy, catchy, sing-along tracks. Their follow-up record, First Band on the Moon, which included the hit single "Lovefool," was recorded as quickly as possible to get something on MTV before the pleasant, but hopelessly tran­sient, memories of LIFE faded awav. While this was all politely entertaining, most of us were still waiting to see if a real band with any teeth would come out and show itself. 
With this latest release, Gran Turismo, the emergence of The Cardigans is complete. The video for the debut single "My Favourite Game" says it all. 
Leather-clad with tattoos, behind the wheel of a top-down convertible in the American West, lead vocalist Nina has gone from whimsical :'1/ordic lithe to Jim Morrison's female reincarna­tion. Once a gadfly dancing the night away on the floors of Milan's Atlantique, we can now easi­ly inrngine ht~r going up to her hotcil room to blast Tlie Doors' "L.A. Woman" instead. 
The first track, "Paralyzed," would make a great dniwn-out accompaniment to the opening credits of any James Bond movie. Seductive, tex­tured and engaging, this song alone shows how much this band has grown in the last year. 
"Erase/Hewintl" reverts right back to the band's Eurodisco roots, but songs like "Starter" and "Hanging Around" have the grit and techno­logically-generated angst to sound like they came out of U2's 1993 Zooropa recording sessions. 
Later tracks like "Marvel Hill" and "Nil" are pretty much clutter, but winners like "Do You Believe" and the above mentioned "My Favourite Game" put Gran Turismo over the top. 
Gran Turismo is not an easy record. It changes pace from one song to the next and is difficult to categorize. But stick with it and you'll be well satisfied. 
Sean King 

The Cardigans 
Gran Turismo 
Polygram Records 
*** (out of five) 


O
THE 
Wcdm:.sJay, February 3. 1999 BSERVER page 11 

alb11m reviews 
Yott lwar llw glass hr1!ak, tl11.i music hits and tlw crowd starts roaring. It's Sto1w Cole! SlPVP Austin. tlw h1•1•r drinking, sw,wring icon nl' t.lw WWF. ;\nd his 
oppo111·nl -llw Corporal,· Champion. the Bruhma Bull. tlw masll'r of tlw Corporaui Fyp!Jrnw and thl' Corporal.I' l<'.l11ow, Uw two Hnw WWI; cha111pio11 ol' tl11• World. Tlw !lock. It's ( ;angrPI and tlw Brood l\lllf!l'g"ing from Ow ring of l'irn and hn's got tlw mystnrious B('d Viscous l.iquid. Or ovn11 wors1i -lhn t1vil Minister or l)arkrH•ss himsc•lf'. Lim king of I.ho undo;i.d wrPsllPrs, tlw U11dcrlakcr . .lust when you think Pwr·vthing is going to lw okay hrnak it down and WP i't!l know that ra11 only nwan one thing ­Tripl,i 11. X-l'ac, Tiu• !load Dog a11d t.lw Badd ·Ass Billy (;un !hl'l!Pr known as D·X) lrnv1\ c·omc out to llw ring lo rais1· a little hell. Or pnrhaps you'n) 11101·1· or a lov«'r and not a fighter. That's okay too, ln•c·aus1• Pv1m tlw adult film star Val Vnnis rnakPs an ap)HWl'i!IH:n. Tu lop it all off. ovcry­orw's favflrilf• band of frnaks, oddities anrl whitn trash poster boys thnmsnlves. tho Insane Clown l'ossH, drop by as well. 
I'm gw!ssing that right about now you're doing orw of two things -wondering what I am talk· ing about or laughing out loud at your dining hall tablt•. hir those of you have no clue what I am talking ahout, it's lhn biggosl thing to hit record slon•s and the campus of Notrn Dame since the rrnw lh1v.-Matt.h1iws Album. That's righl. it's M-'IH.-the /'dusic Volume 3. 
Wrnst.ling's popularity is llw higlrnst it's been sir11·1· th1i glory days of Wrnstlemania 3, which saw llulk llogan and ,\ndrt! the Giant battle f"or tlu• W\\!F lwll in front of ov,ir 90,000 l'ans in the Sih:Prdm111•. Now, tlw WWF has decided to try to rnpilaliz,• on tlw wrnstling lh•nzy with Llw ti1ird installnH•nt ol' tlw WWI; !111•111«' songs. 11 ,rnsily bPats U1n lirsl tw, i11td has lwm1 sl<mdily moving upwards on thP llilll)()ard Music Chart's lop 2:,. 
Tlw CD it.sPlf is loadPd with tlrn Pnt.rancP rlwnH's 111' 14 of your f,tvorit1i WWF s111wrstars, irwl11di11g tlw llnd!·rtakPr. tlw Brood. l>-X, Kmi Shamrof'k and Val VPnis. 'With star powp1· such as this. 11'1\F th!' .\111:,ic Volume 3 wuld rt'ach popularily ll'VPls only dn•anwd of by any artist in 
lhc musil: industry today. IL could very wnll bt'<'.onin Notro Damo Dorm Party music. What lmttN way to party then Lo sit back ancJ rnlax to thn sounds or Stone Cold St,wc Austin, or Tho New Age Outlaws? II' you're a wrestling fan, then you will dntiniwly lik11 this en. 
/\s laughablP as this may SPnm lo somP I am goiug to give this album a rarn rating indend ­so rnrn in fact. t.hat only two other alb111ns havll nvnr altainnct this high of a rating from nw (Less Titan .lakn's f,osing Slr<~ak and NOFX's While '/'ra.,;h. Two 1/eehs, and a Hean). On a scaln of 1-!i this album reccivns a 6. Yes, it is that good. As an nxtra special bonus I hav(1 placnd MP3s of this album on my network spac,, lllHl!!r the nanrn i\1r. Soeko. su any curious pnophi can come by and hav,1 u little dose of WWF Altitude. I think that's about it -I've made a big nnough fool of myself lhis wm~k to last a long time IJut before I go, if vou'ro not down with WWF the Mw;ir Volume 3, ~veil then. I got two v.ords l'or ya -suck il. 
Brian Kornmann 
Nocturne Nightflight 
You can hear more from Scene reviewer Brian Kornmann on WSND 88.9 FM every Thursday from midnight until 2 a.m. 

Various Artists 
WWF the Music Volun1e 3 
Koch Records 
***** (out of five) 

When NWA rPleaspcf their landmark album Straight Dutta Compton it marked a major transitional moment in the evolution of the rap genre. Up to that point, rappers like LL Cool J, Hun DMC and the Sugar Hill Gang had focused mainly on controversy-free. fun rhyming. /\long with Public Enemy, NWA brought an edge to their music. The major attitudes of inner~city black youths were beginning to mani· fest themselves in the form of gangsta rap. Tracks became more political and expressed the rage, disenchantment and cynicism of the ghet· toes of East LA. When Straight Outta Compton was released, controversy surrounded this group of future superstars. Easy-E, Ice Cube, Dr. Dre, MC Ren and DJ Yella had achieved infamy and a notoriety that only occurs when a chord has been struck with society as a whole. On this new release, a 10th anniversary tribute to the group, rappers who filled NWA's shoes after they broke up perform rovers of the 12 tracks on tlrn original album. Beginning with the title track, tlw hard-core anger that pervades the group's music is evident. Their vir.w of life seems limited to machismo, violAnce, sex and money. The covAring artists havn changed tho songs, making them their own, but tho messagn of outright disdain for authority and for a society that has l<'f't thnm behind is clc1ar, allrnil softened. Tim now generation of rappers who have inherilHd tho business have so clearly been influ­encnd by NWA that tho covers seem very natur­al. Bone Thugs N' Harmony covor ilui first )c)Udly anli-police anthem or inner cilies, "!Expletive! Tha Police," prodncessor of Ice T's "Cop Killer." Snooµ ])ogg chimes in on "Gangsla Gangsta" and, altl10ugh ho cannot give Easy's spirited per• J'onnancc. his mellowed and cold-blooded iutnr­pretation is successful. 
P1uhaps the best track on the album is "Express Yourself," pnrfornrnd by Sillk (sic) Tlw Shocker. lts upbeat baseline and vocal incanta• tions along with its almost optimistic lyrics make it a glimmer of light in a pool of bloody despair. When one listens to these lyrics, a sense of anger comes through the music and entnrs the listennr. The heavy bass accompaniment dons morn to heighten the mood of ultimate aggression that is a huge part of these men's livns. 
Although the group brokn up not long affor its release, Straight Dutta Compton remains a cen­tral work in the history of the genre. a record that revolutionized the industry, for better or worse. Before listening to this, beware, for no NWA song is for the weak of heart nor innocent ears. The hard beats and vulgar raps belong not to a magical world of sunshine and smiles but to a darker side of' America where death and tragedy lurk at every turn. Tlrnsn are tough rap• pers in a tough world and they pay homag,~ to the legacy ol' NWA. with style. 
Tom Ogorzalek 
Nocturne Nightflight 
Listen to the Tuesday Night Schnocture to hear Fat Tommy 0 and the Kahuna explore the mysteries of life and the Postal Service on Tuesdays from mid· night until 2 a.m. on 88.9 FM. 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, February 3, 1999 
¦ NHL 
Colorado notches team-best ninth consecutive victory 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 
Milan Hejduk and Adam Deadmarsh scored third-period goals Tuesday as the Colorado Avalanche won a fran­chise record ninth consecutive game, defeating lhe Boston Bruins 3-2. 
Hejduk found the net from the right faceoff circle at 18:08 of the third peri­od. It was his sixth goal of the season and third game-winner this year. 
Deadmarsh t1icked in a rebound of a Chris Drury shot at 14:57 to tie the game at 2-2. He has six points in his last three games. 
Jason Allison scored two second­period goals for the Rruins, whose win­less streak was extended to six games. They are 0-5-1 in that stretch. 
The win broke a three-year losing streak for the Avalanche in Boston. Their last win came in the 1995-96 season. 
A!Uson got his first goal 11 seconds into the second period on a power play, tying the game 1-1. Of his 40 points this season, 18 of them have come on power plays. IL was his 10th goal this 
year. 
His second goal. giving Boston a 2-1 lead, came at 18:45 of the period when he took a pass across the crease from Steve Heinze and put the puck into the left corner. He bas nine multi-point games this season. 
Sandis Ozolinsh, playing in only his ninth game of the season after signing a multi-year contract on Jan. 5, gave the Avalanche a 1-0 lead when he scored his first goal of the season on a power play at 6: 14 of the first period. The Avalanche have eight power-play goals in their last 26 attempts. 
Bvron Dafoe stopped 19 of 22 Coliirado shots, including one by Shean 
""-s Donovan at 5:26 in the third period. Donovan broke in alone from the right side where Dafoe made a sprawling save in the crease. Patrick Hoy faced 25 Bruins shots. including 12 in the l'irst period, and stopped 21 of them. 
PENGUINS 5, SABRES 3 
Jaromir Jagr figured in all of 
¦ MEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Pittsburgh's scoring, setting up goals by Jan Hrdina and Kip Miller in a span of 1 :12 of the third period as the Penguins rallied to beat the Buffalo Sabres 5-3 Tuesday night. 
Jagr scored an empty-net goal with one second left and assisted on the four Pittsburgh goals against Buffalo goaltender Dominik Hasek -his Czech Olympic teammate a February ago ­for a five-point night. 
Jagr had a pair of four-point games to l~arn NHL player of' the week honors last week. 
The Penguins won their fourth in a row and became the first team this season to rally from a third-period deficit against Buffalo, which had been 19-0-0 when leading after two periods. 
Miller, who had played mostly on checking lines until being moved up to Jagr's line last week, had two goals and Kevin Hatcher also scored as the Penguins improved to 14-1-2 in their last 17 home games against Buffalo. 
Jason Woolley, Brian Holzinger and Miroslav Satan scored in a three-goal Buffalo third period that made it :,-2 against goaltender Poter Skudra, who also won his fourth in a row. 
But 1-lrdina tied it at 13:59 of the third with a power-play goal with Satan off for high-sticking. Miller then got his second of the game and eighth of the season at 15:11 as Jagr fought off two defenders in the left circle to thread the puck to Miller as he skated down the slot. 
Miller had a four-point game and Miller figured in three goals. 
Hasek, who beat Pittsburgh 3-0 in his last start against them last season, had shut out the Penguins for 100 minutes, 22 seconds until Miller scored 32 sec­onds into the game, putting in his own rebound off Jagr's setup. 
Hatcher made it 2-0 at 17:41 with the first or the Penguins' two power­play goals. 
Woolley, a rormer Penguins player, directed a shot from the left circle off the post and by Skudra on the power play at 29 seconds of the second peri­od. Holzinger scored off Darius Kasparaitis' giveaway at 9:12. 
Satan scored his 20th with four sec­onds left in the period after the Sabres' Derek Plante hooked Martin Straka in the neutral zone, allowing Michal Grosek to scoop up the puck and shoot it up ice. 
MAPLE LEAFS 3, LIGHTNfNG 0 
Bryan Berard and Sergei Berezin scored second-period power-play goals and Curtis Joseph stopped 23 shots Tuesday night as Toronto beat Tampa Bay 3-0. 
Berard broke a scoreless tie at 12:46 and Berezin made 2-0 at 17:54. Toronto has recorded two power-play goals in four of its past five games. 
Joseph preserved his 21st career shutout and second this season by stopping Rob Zamuner from point­blank range early in the third period. 
Todd Warriner added a third-period goal at 7:35 as the Maple Leafs moved into first place in the Northwest Division by one point over idle Ottawa. 
The Maple Leafs are 4 7-0-5 since the start of last season when leading after two periods. Toronto has beaten the Lightning six straight times and is 9-1 all-time at Tampa Bay. 
The Lightning, who have lost four straight games, have won just once (1­69-6} in the past 76 games when trail­ing after 40 minutes. , After Berezin's shot from the slot was blor.ked bv Jassen Cullimore, Berard picked up the loose puck in the left circle and scored his sixth goal. 
Berezin recorded his 17th goal from near the right post after a feed from behind the net by Igor Korolev, who finished with two assists. 
Stephane Richer's apparent goal during a 2-on-1 at 13:43 of the second period was disallowed after a video review determined the Tampa Bay shot hit the post and did not cross the goal line. 
Tampa Bay got off only one shot dur­ing 3:46 of consecutive power-play hockey in the first period. 
The Lightning were without five reg­ular defenseman -Cory Cross (hip flexor), Petr Svoboda (groin), Kjell Samuelsson (hamstring), Mike McBain (bruised foot} and Drew Bannister (wrist) -due to injuries. The six Tampa Bay defenseman who dressed entered with a combined 377 games of NHL experience. 
FLAMES 2, COYOTES 2 
Nikolai Khabibulin stopped 34 shots and shut out Calgary's high-scoring Theo Fleury, enabling the Phoenix Coyotes to come away with a 2-2 tie with the Flames on Tuesday night. 
-Fleury had nine points in his three previous games. He got none against the acrobatic Khabibulin, whose only mistake allowed the Flames to tie it on a goal by Jarome Iginla early in the third period. 
Andrei Nazarov had the other goal for the Flames, who escaped a last­place tie with idle Vancouver in the Northwest Division by picking up a point on the road. 
But the Coyotes extended their unbeaten streak against the Flames to five games (3-0-2) and held them scoreless in five power plays, extend­ing Calgary's streak to 25 advantages in which it has failed to score. 
Phoenix's Keith Tkachuk had a power-play goal and an assist, giving him five points in his last two games, and Travis llansen scored a goal for the Coyotes. 
Nazarov tied it at 1 in the first peri­od, and Iginla tied it again at 1:18 of the third. negating Hansen's first goal in a six-game NHL career 10: 19 into the first period. 
Hansen, recalled from Springfield of the AIIL on Thursday, poked a rebound of a shot by Tkachuk past Fred Brathwaite from the edge of the slot 
10:19 into the first period. 
The Coyotes haven't lost when lead­ing after two periods (17-0-7), but they couldn't stave off the young, aggressive Flames, who outshot them 29-15 after the first period while Brathwaite, their starter the last 10 games, made 15 of his 26 saves. 
fginla tind it with a slanting shot from just outside crease. 
Khabibulin dropped to all fours, bul lost control of the puck. and it slid just over the goal line. 
The Flames outshot the Coyotes 13-5 in the second period, but Khabibulin was solid, sprawling full-length to smother a shot by Ed Ward during a spell when Calgary took 11 consecutive shots before the Coyotes managed one at the other end. 
No. 8 State escapes Nittany Lions on last-second shot 
Associated Press 
STATE COLLEGE, Pa. 
Mateen Cleaves hit a leaning 10-footer over a defender with less than a second to play Tuesday night and No. 8 Michigan State escaped with a 70-68 victory over Penn State. 
Cleaves, who scored with .4 seconds left, had 14 points and five assists in the Spartans' eighth straight win. while Morris Peterson scored 13 of his 17 points in the second half. Michigan State (19-4, 8-1) remained in first place in the Big Ten. 
Calvin Booth had 18 points and eight rebounds, while Dan Earl added 12 points for Penn State (10-10, 2-8), which has lost seven of eight games -including four at home to ranked opponents by a total of 11 points. Penn State lost to No. 21 Indiana 98-95 in double overtime on Sunday. 
Trailing 68-65 with a minute left, the Spartans misfired on two 3-pointers, but Andre Hutson grabbed the rebound on the second shot and found Cleaves for a 3­pointer at the top of the circle to tie it. 
Booth missed a shot at the other end. With six seconds left, Cleaves dribbled in on Joe Crispin and hit the game-winner. 
Hutson had 14 points and nine rebounds and Antonio Smith grabbed 11 rebounds for the Spartans, who had 21 offensive rebounds,. 
Michigan State had trouble finding its mark in the second half, and Penn State took a 68-65 lead with 2:05 remaining on Titus Ivory's 3-pointer. 
Peterson helped the Spartans build a 57­50 lead midway through the second half. He took it to the hoop once, stole the ball for another basket and dunked twice after nifty passes from Cleaves. 
But Penn State went on a 7-0 run when Crispin stole the ball and took it in for a fastbreak layup and Earl hit a 25-foot 3­pointer to tie it. Two minutes later, Ivory made two free throws and Penn State led for the first time, 61-59 with 5:38 left. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid.
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
IILOST & FOUND I Players for Shenanigans Band-for Bahamas.etc.Best hamster cage with bedding and 3 big shows and optional spring hotels.prices.parties. 5 & 6 BDRM HOMES. 1999/2000, food for sale. Call Monica and 
NOTICES 
break tour Browse www.icpt.com SUMMER OR NOW.NEAR CAM-Emily @ 243-1828 Call Meg at 4-2573. Reps earn cash,free trips.Call Inter-PUS.FURN.GILLIS PROPER­
LOST: Campus B00-327-6013 TIES.2726551 Spring Break Bahamas Party gold tennis bracelet, please call ADOPT:Help us make our family TICKETS Cruise!5Nights $279! Includes Ana Sosa @634-2819 complete.Let us give your newborn HOUSE OR ROOMS AVAIL 
FOR RENT
Meals & Free Parties IAwesome a loving.happy home and a wonder-NOW 272-6551 BOB DYLAN 1st . 5 ROWS 
Beaches,N,ghtllle!Departs From ful future.Expenses paid. Please call 
WANTED
Florida!Cancun & Jamaica $3991 Lucille and Michael 1-800-468­
springbreaktravel.com 9311. 1-800-678-6386 SALES & MARKETING INTERNSHIPS VOLUNTEERS NEEDED University Directories offers The Early Childhood Development paid,full-time summer sales and Center.located at Saint Mary's 
WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6 BEDROOM STARTING $185 
MONTH/PERSON 232-2595 
Spring Break Panama City marketing internships.open to all College and the University of Notre 
$129!Boardwalk Room w/Kitchen disciplines.College credil avail-Dame.is looking tor volunteers who NICE HOMES FOR NEXT 
Next To Clubs!7 Parties-Free able. Training program.Great enjoy young children.If you would SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND ... Drinks!Daytona $149!South Beach resume booster! 1(800)743-5556 or be interested in spending 2 hours a 8.6.4.3,BEDROOM 2773097 
$129•Cocoa Beach $149! www.universitydirectories.com week reading children's FEAR catch the fever ...... springbreaktravel .com books,building with blocks,and '99-'00 LOADED!6 Bedrm. $800 
FORSALE
1-800-678-6386 singing songs with children.please mo. 273-04B2/234-3831 So you think you can take me do 
WWF. RINGSIDE 1st. 10 rows House for Rent. 272-7233. Two Blocks from campus. Available in June for Summer. 
PERSONAL
August for fall. Dishwasher. Washer/Dryer, full basement, large backyard, and off street parking. Yes, Mary Zakas does read the MONITORED SECURITY SYSTEM classifieds INCLUDED!! KITCHEN BEING 
REMODELED THIS SPRING! CAIi Big deal, so does half the school .. 2B9-4712 
CRUISE SHIP EMPLOYMENT Workers earn up to $2,000+/month (w/tips & bene-
GET THE HECK OUT OF HERE' fits).World Travel'Land-Tour jobs up Mexico,the Caribbean or Jamaica to $5,000-$7,000/surnmer.Ask us $250 r/t.Other worldwide destina-how! lions cheap.Book tickets on line 517-336-4235 Ext.C55B42 www.airtech.com or (212)219-7000. 
Piano Trumpet Sax Guitar & Bass call Cindy Hestad at 284-4693 (ECDE-SMC) or Thayer Kramer at 631-3344 (ECDC·ND).Please join our fun filled days. 
SPRING BREAK BEACHES Daytona,Panama City.Padre.Miami.Cancun,Jamaica, 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 
3 BDRM, DUPLEX, REMODELED, 501EDDY ST. 1 Ml. FROM CAMPUS APPL!­ANCES, W/D. 273-8332 
you? NEW Rates Phone Cards 282 min.$20 call 258-4805 Do you? 
89 Ford Probe GT (made by I didn't think so ...... Mazda) $1600, call 634 4303. 
Well, well, well .... 
Need a valentine gift? Awesome Are we in it yet? 
.-----------------------------------------------­
Wednesday, February .3, 1999 The Observer· SPORTS page 13 
¦ NFL 
Super Bowl loss gives Falcons chance to regroup 
A.~sociatet! i'ress Chris Bayrrn, running back Harold over a regular spot at outside line-The offensive line. led by Bob Green, tighl end Ed Smith, linebacker backer. while second-year player Henri Whitl'icld at lef't tackle and rookie /\Tl.ANT/\ Bnn Talley and offensive lineman Dave Crockett is the heir apparent to Jessie Ephraim Salaam on the right side, is a Now l'.omes I.Im tough part for tlw Widell. Tuggle at middle linebacker. young group with plenty of room to Atlanta Fakons. Bayrw, Green and Widell spent much Both Tuggle and Cornelius Bennett improve. Twenty-four-year-old O..J. 
St!t'P. it was quilt' an accnmplishmnnt of Llw season on thP inactive list. while are entering the final year of their con-Santiago needs to work on his rnceivi11g to makl1 llw Super Bowl !'or the first Smith and Talley had limited roles as tracts, and both will be 34 at the begin-skills, but seems set for a long. produc-Limn in 3:{ y<iars. Obviously, tlw "Dirty backups. ning of next. season. tive career at tight end. Bircls" wont a long way toward rostor­In 1999, I.he Falcons can expocl While the corners -Rradf'ord and Of' coursfl, the offense rnvolves around ing lhn city's passion f'nr pm l'oothall lrnighte1rnd tiXp(ictations, a tougher Booker on one side, Pro Bowler Ray All Pro running buck Jamal Anderson with thnir catchy nicknam,i anri funky sclrndulo and an alrnady long-in-ihe­Buchanan on the other -are still in and quart1-1rback Chris Chandler, a Pro dam:.(\ sl,1ps. loolh team that will be one year older. their 20s, how much longer can Eugene Bowler f'or the second year in a row. 
But tho thing lhal still eludos dii:,; Tim dofonse, in particular, is starting RolJinson (36 in May) and William White Depth at those positions will be a ma_jor l'ranchiSt! is l'OllSiSI.Pllt SIICf:l'SS. t.o lake on lhe look of the "Over ThP Hill (33 next month) keep producing at the for.us of the offseason. 
TIH~ Falcons have ncvnr Imel buck-to­Gang," with five starters who will be :!2 safely positions? Anderson set an NFL record wiLh 410 hack winning snasons, a poinl notnd years or older by the start. of next sea­Bobinson was a Pro Bowler and the carries this season, mainly becausn his quitn of'lon by rnach Dan lk1wcs evon son. Average age of the entire unit: 30. unquestioned leader of the secondary, top backup was rookie Kon Oxendine, a as Im wa.s guiding Atlanl.a to thH NFC A youth movement. is under way, cen­barking oul. orders on the field, reciting srwenth-round pick. Byron llanspard, championship. tering around the team's last two No. 1 Bible passages in the locker room. But who missed tho season with a knee 
"Wt\ havo an awful lot of things to be draft choices. his once-spotless reputation took a dev-injury, has barely started his rehabilita­proud of," Hmwos said, after an extraor­Cornerback Michael Booker, the top aslating blow when he was arrested on tion program. dinary sc!ason nmfod with a 34-19 loss choice in 1997, took on a larger role a charge of soliciting an undercover Chandler was hacked up by 45-year­to tlw D,invnr Broncos. "We've r,omn an when injuries plagued starter I1on11ie police officec for sex the night before old Steve DcBerg, so finding an experi­11w1'11I long ways. What we're trying to nradford. Linebacker Keith Hrooking, the Super Bowl. enced -but much younger -backup do now is right for home-f'iold advan­picked No. I last year. started slowly "I'm going to be a man about it," also will boa priority, Lago lWXl yPar." but gradually worked his way into a Robinson said of his off-the-liel<l scan-Rut those are quest.ions f'or the days 
No hiam has 1w1\r played the NFL title n•gular rule in passing situations. dal. "I'll let my lawyer handle it. but I and months to come. For now. the ganw on its hnnrn fip,lcl. Next year, tho "Ile needed early on to study films won't run from you, I won't try to evade Falcons want to rclh;h the moment a lit• Falcons havn a chanc(i to b<i tlrn first and anticipate. tak11 nottis and under­you. tie longer. wlwn I hn Supnr Bowl comPs l.o the stand," defensive coordinator Rich Age also is a concern at receiver. "[t's been a magical season, without a c;oorgia Donw. Brooks said. "I think he needs to apply Terance Mathis and Tony Martin were doubt," Tuggle said. "It was more than I 
Atlanta Look cani of its first pince of all tho tools he has. hecause he has the second-most productive duo in the expected. We worked hard this year Lo o/Tscason business Tuesday, making five unbelievable tools and is going to be a loaguo -combining for 2,317 yards -make true believers out of everybody. playors availahln to tho Cleveland great player." bul Mathis will be 32 in June and We did that." Browns for tlw t~xpansion draft: safety Brooking eventually figures to take Martin turns 34 early next season. Now, they've got. to do it again. 
'Sweetness' diagnosed with rare liver disease 
Associ;ited Press "Hight now, I'm still healthy. is 88 percent, and the long­related to alcohol. steroids, NCAA records at Jackson State 
even though I look like I've term survival rate is "very hepatitis or any kind or and was the Bears' first round 
H0SEM0NT. Ill. lost weight," Payton said at a promising." I-le said most peo­immunodeficiency disease, draft pick in 1975. lie led the 
NFL grna! Waltiir Payton is news conference today. ple can return to a normal, Lagattuta said. Bears to their only Super Bowl lwing treated for a rare liver The 44-ycar-old Hall of active life if they receive a Symptoms of PSC are appearance and victory follow­disnasn and will need a lrans­Famcr said he called the news transplant. fatigue, followed by yellow in ing the 1985 season, and plant. conference because of specu­Payton said the disease has the pigment of the eyes and retired two years later. 
Tho former Chicago Bears lation about his obvious weight brought him closer to his spiri­skin, he said. Payton was named to the star was diagnosed with pri­loss. lie appeared gaunt at his tual side and he broke down Lagatutta said the disease is Bears' board of directors in mary sdcirosing cholangitis, a son .Jarrett's news conference into tears as he asked fans to rare, affecting about three in 1997. disnasc in which thn bile ducts last wnck to announce he pray for him. 100,000 people, and is difficult After football, Payton has or tlw liver am blocked. would play football for the "To the people that really to diagnose. He initially dabbled in numerous business 
Dr. Josnph l.agattuta, his University of :vtiami. care about me, just continue thought Payton might have a ventures and auto racing. lie physician. s11id patients in Payton is being placed on a praying," he said. gall bladder problem when he is owner of Walter Payton Payton's condition survive an list to receive a transplant, The cause of primary scle­told him in October that he Houndhouse Complex in avcragtl of two yoars without a Lagattuta said. The one-year rosing cholangi1.is is not had been feeling ill for a cou­Aurora, west of Chicago, transplant. survival rate with a transplant known. However, it is not ple of months. The diagnosis which includes a pub and his 
The Department of English Presents The Ward-Phillips Lectures 
Margaref Anne Doody 
Professor of English and Comparative Literature Vanderbilt University 

A New ReadiV\9 of The ~oldev\ ,1-\ss" 
Thursday, February 4, 1999, 4: 15 pm, Hesburgh Center Auditorium 

Friday, February 5, 1999, 3:00 pm, Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
A Reception Will Follow in the Great Hall of the Hesburgh Center. ' 
Margaret Anne Doody received her PhD from Oxford University and has taught at Victoria University, University of California at Berkeley, Princeton University, and Vanderbilt University. She is the author of A Natural Passion: A Study of the Novels of Samuel Richardson, The Daring Muse: Augustan Poetry Reconsidered, Frances Burney: The Life in the Works and The True Story of the Novel, as well as numerous articles, poems, and two novels. 
For more information, contact the English Department at 219.631.7226. 
was confirmed within the last own hall of fame museum. two weeks. He's a minority owner of a 
Payton, nicknamed power equipment firm and an "Sweetness" during his playing Indy Cart-team -Payton­days, is the NFL's all-time Coyne Hacing; and is also a loading rusher. with 16.726 founding director of First yards. He was named to the Northwestern Bank in Pro Bowl nine times in his 13-Arlington Heights. year career, and was inducted The father of a teen-age son into the Pro Football Hall of and daughter, Payton is a Fame in 1993. Payton was cooking and movie buff and named to the NFL's 75th owns an extensive film library. Anniversary All-Time team in lie lives in South Barrington. a 1994. wealthy suburb northwest of 
Ile set numerous school and Chicago. 
1998-99 SEASO.N 
NOTRE DAME FILM, TELEVISION, ANO THEATRE PRESENTS 

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 7:30 PM RESERVED Tl ems $14 
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 11. 7:JO PM ]·]Q pu
SENIORS sn FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, • m ALL STUDENTS $11 SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 7:30 PM 
Hum AR[ A'IAII.A8LE AT LAFOR!lll[ S!ll!lEHT CENTER mm OFFICE. MAS!IRURD AND VISA ORDERS CALl 6]1-6128 
.... 
page 14 The Observer• SPORTS Wednesday, February 3, 1999 
r 
¦ MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Padres deal Vaughn to Reds for Sanders 
Associated Press 
SAN DlEGO 
San Diego's Greg Vaughn, who set a club record with 50 homers last year, was traded to the Cincinnati Heds today in a five-player deal that sent oft­injured Reggie Sanders to the Padres. 
San Diego also sent left-hand­ed pinch-hitter Mark Sweeney to the Reds, who also gave up infielder Damian Jackson and minor leaguer Josh Ilarris. 
The Padres have been look­ing to unload Vaughn, who will make $5.75 million in the final season of a three-vear contract. But they take on Sanders' $3.7 million ·salary, plus his history of injuries. 
Cincinnati general manager Jim Bowden said the Reds orig­inally wanted San Diego GM Kevin Towers to agree to pay more than $1 million of Vaughn's salary. 
"But whrn the clay was done. their need was to reduce pay­roll," Bowden said. "He told me we had the athlet<~s they want­ed." 
Cincinnati was 12th in the NL with 138 home runs last season and traded Bret Boone, its home run leader, to Atlanta after the season. 
Bowden said that if the Reds compete for a playoff spot and ticket sales increase, thev could afford Vaughn for an ·entire season. If they don't contend, Bowden said Vaughn could be traded in July. 
The trade of Vaughn contin­ues a financial makeover of the Padres, who claim that they've lost about $50 million since John Moores and Larrv Lucchino bought the team in December 1994. 
Although Towers said that money wasn't behind the trade, he noted that Vaughn will be a free agent after this season and could command a huge con­tract to stay beyond 1999. Sanders has an option for 2000 at $3.7 million. 
"The thing that's most appealing is we're able to con­trol Reggie for another year and Vaughn, we didn't know if we could," Towers said. "That salary fits in very well to the structure of all our other play­ers, so we can stay competitive­ly balanced throughout our 25 man roster." 
Since being swept by the New York Yankees in the World Series, the Padres had a new ballpark approved by the vot­ers, but also lost have lost ace Kevin Brown. center fielder Steve Finley, third baseman Ken Caminiti and have traded starter Joev Hamilton. 
The Padres had no chance of keeping Bro'vrn, who-signed a record $105 million, seven year deal with division rival Los Angeles. and offered far less than what Finley got from another division foe, Arizona. The Padres made only a token offer to Caminiti, who was bro­ken down physically by the time the Series ended and rejoined the Houston Asiros. 
After struggling in a platoon system with Rickey Henderson the last two months of 199& and most of 1997, Vaughn had a remarkable comeback in 1998. He became the 27th player in big league history to hit 50 homers and had a career-high 119 RBls, tied for the second most by a Padres player. 
Vaughn was traded the day before he and teammate Trevor Hoffman were to be honored as two of the four pro­fessional stars of the year as chosen by the San Diego Hall of Champions. Yankees left-han­der David Wells and Denver Broncos running back Terrell Davis are the other two hon­orees. 
In 1993, when the Padres' infamous fire sale was at its height, San Diego dealt Gary Sheffield to the Florida Marlins on the same day he was named to the San Diego's 25th anniversary team. 
The Padres are getting a player once considered to be a rising star in the Reds' system. Sanders, 31, had a break­through year in 1995, hitting .306 with a career-high 28 homers and 99 RBIs as he helped the Reds reach the play­offs. 
He hit only .138 in the post­season, striking out 19 times in 29 at-bats as the Reds made it to the league championship series before getting swept by Atlanta. 
Various injuries, including a bulging disc in his lower back, limited him to 81 games in 1996 and 86 in 1997. He appeared in 135 last season, hitting .268 with 14 homers and 59 RBrs. 
Jackson, 25, is a middle infielder with a lot of speed and a history of erratic hitting. He played in a career-best 13 games for the Reds at the end of last season, coming off a third consecutive season at Triple-A. He hit .261 for Indianapolis, striking out 125 times in 517 at-bats, with 25 steals. 
Harris, a 21-year-old right­hander, was 10-12 in 27 starts for Class A Burlington last year. 
Sweeney, 28, gives the Reds' bench more depth. He led the major leagues with 22 pinch hits in 1997 and ranks second in the National League with 34 pinch hits over the last two sea­sons. 


PF ~\\\fl.1° 
with r"\~~--o 
To buy one, see your donn representative. Long-sleeve $15 
Short-sleeve $10 

~#t WoWJEN:•s ••si<Eri4LL~ 
•osYoM COl...uGE· ,rs~ 
Wea. February 3ra@7p.m. Celebrate: ''National Girls and 
Women in Sports Day!!'' 
Sw·YO)I~ U4.L.L.­
JAM THE JOYCE '99 
Sat. February 6th @2p.m. Help break the Irish attendance record!!! 
,----------------------------~----~--~------------­
Wednesday, Fehrnary 3, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 15 

Iron 
continued from page 20 
to individuals based on tlrn porc11nLagn ur body wnight lif'Li•cl. Tho mnn's and womnn's tnam compditions will Pach consist of' l'ivn dorm r,·prPs1·11taLivl's, with prizes awardPfl to the nwn's tnam that l111asts tlrn h11st pnrco11t­ag1! of total body weight lil'tml and to tlw worlH!n's tnam that 
benches thn grnatnsl amount. rngardlnss of competitors' weight. 
Those interested in partic­ipating in this ynar's Irish Iron Classic can pick up entry forms al the Hockne Mnmorial Building or Holt's Sports Hecreation Centor. 
Hegistralion and w11igh-ins for main liftnrs am on Friday from 4-6 p.m. and Saturday from 1-5:30 p.m. in the Hocknc Locker Hoom. 
Female competitors can 
register before the competi­tion on Sunday. 
The cost is seven dollars for each individual male competi­tor, $15 for male dorm teams and $30 for female dorm teams. The Classic will begin at noon in tho Joy~e Center f'ieldhousn. 
"!L's going to be a really good time, " said organiz!\r Burt 13incnfold. "We've got a ILi. and an emcee. It's going to be! a lot of fun to come ou l and watch." 

tl«x>,el; 
and 
Jmr91 
' 





BIGGER DIRTIER BEATS, BDB 2 LEON RUSSELL 
Various Artists Face In The Crowd 

COLIN JAMES OUR FRIEND, MARTIN 
Colin James And The Little Big Band II Soundtrack 
M1rnr1~~YP0LAY® 
Your Entertainment Superstore 
For the store nearest you, call toll-free 1-888-606-3342 
Sale dGffls: January 31-Februory 13, 1999. Select rifles nat available on cm,ette. 
m;,ght ! p ii)Jer 
.. featuring the Celebration Choir. 
I¦ Wednesday Nights 
0/VlPUS
MNl5TRY 10:00 -18:30pm • Walsh Chapel 
Football: Class of 2003 
Verbal Commitments 
Brennan Curtin, 6-8, 298, OL, N. Palm Beach, FL Chris Yunt, 6-0, 190, H.B/DB, Morgantown, WV Jason Beckstrom; 5-11, 190, RB/JJB, Jenks, OK Jim Molinaro, 6-8, 245, DL, Bethlehem, PA Cedric Hilliard, 6-3, 295, DL, Arlington, TX Pat Ryan, 6-3, 215, LB/fE, Billi11g_s, MT Glenn Earl, 6-2, 1.80, WR/DB, Lisle, IL Joey Hildbold, 5-11. 170, KIP, Fairfax, VA Gerome Sapp, 6-1, 200, DB, Houston, TX Sean Milli_gan, 6-5, 285, OL, Norcross, GA Ryan Gilhs, 6-5, 315, OL, Hyattsvill(~. MD Justin Thomas, 6-3, 230, LB, Spencer, OK 
Nick Setta, 6-0 165, KIP RomeoviJle, IL Neal Ambron. 6-7, 270,:? ()L, Littleton, CO Gary Godsey, 6-8, 250, TE, T~mpa, FL ., 
Courtney Watson, 6-2, 195, RB, Sarasota, H, Jamaar Taylor, 6-1, 200, WR, Mission, TX Jeff Faine 6-4, 325, OL Sanford, FL Julius Jones, 6-0, 190, HB, Big Stone Gap, VA Darrell Campbell, 6-4, 255, DL,:fouth Holland, IL Albert Poree, 5-11, 185, DB, New Orleans, LA 
Recruits 
continued from page 20 
325) will automatically join the depth chart as a backup to John Merandi at center. Sean Milligan (6-5, 285) and Byan Gillis (6-5. 315) project as guards and Neal Ambron (fi-7, 
270) and Brennan Curtain (6-8, 
298) will provide depth at tack­le. 
The common denominator of this class is attitude. Coach Bob Davie wanted to recruit athletic offensive linemen with a mean streak. He round them with this class. Jeff Faine may be the only lineman to receive playing time in 1999, however. The Irish will be grooming him to replace Morandi in two years and any game experience will be invalu­able. "Coach Davie needed offensive linemen and he recruited the bnst group of line­men in the country. All are ath­1etic and all can move," remarked Frank. 
Davie will also be looking to sign not one but two kickers today in .Joey llildbold and Nick Setla. Setla is a placekicking specialist while llildbold is known l'or his high, hanging punts. 
"Nick Sdta has a leg to kick off. They arc looking for some­one who can put the ball in the endzonc, and Sella's got the leg. Ile could be the first freshman to see action." 
Although he will not announce until :1:00 p.m., many expHct highly touted quarter­back C.J. Leak to sign with Notre Dame. Ile is still consider­ing Syracuse, Tennessee, Michigan State, Penn State, and Kansas State, but Notre Dame has been the anointed leader for weeks. Leak is the only quarterback still considering the Irish. 
"So , like, what are you doing after 
.ir,n
d t•
gra ua 100•••• 
Pray with us. 
lnteffluMm 
I
I ¦ MEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
I 
I I Monmouth College ends longest Div. I losing streak 
page 16 The Observer. SPORTS Wednesday, February 3, 1999 
Associated Press 
When he arrived home an hour after Monmouth College ended the nation's longest Division I losing streak, coach Dave Calloway's telephone answering machine was blink­ing away with 16 messages, 
"I have call waiting on the answering machine, and as one person was leaving a message vou could hear it beep in," Calloway said Tuesday, a little more than 12 hours after his Hawks defeated Wagner 66-61 to end a 22-game skid. 
"People were just calling one after another. and when l got in this morning l had another eight or nine more here," the youngest coach in Oivision f basketball added. 
Most of the calls \Vere from friends. l'ellow coaches. alumni and family -the same people who had called before to tell Calloway to hang in them as tlw losses piled up through this sea­son's first l 9 games. 
"\:\'hat I'm fe,,ling is relief -it just hits you," Calloway said. "After that, you·re just happy for the kids because it could havf' bNrn very easy to park it in, csprcially the young guys. They could have said we'll do it next year. This has been a tough time, but we have contin­ued to work and we've been right there the last couple of games." 
As the final seconds ticked off 
Monday night, many in the 
crowd of 1,117 inched closer to 
the !1oor. At the final buzzer, 
they celebrated wildly, reminis­cent of three years ago when the Hawks beat Rider to win the Northeast Conference tourna­ment and their first NCAA Tournament berth. 
"The thing that clicked in me after we got the win is that it took me 20 games to get that feeling," said freshman Alpha Bangura, whose four free throws iced the victory, the Ha\vks' first since Feb. 16, 1998. 
If there was a disappointment on Tuesday, Calloway said, it was in not being able to get right back to work. Under NCAA rules, players have to have at least one day off a week, and the Hawks (1-19) were off with games on tap Thursday, Saturday and Monday. 
"These guys realize all that work paid off, so we have to keep working," said Cal11nrny, who now has a 4-29 record as a head coach. with three wins corning against Wagner. "It's not like now that we got a \\·in we can easP. up. Now they ha\'e seen it and got the taste in their mouths we have to continue to go from there and work." 
Calloway is used lo that. He has not stopped since taking over as head coach at the West Long Branch, N.J., school after Wayne Szoke resigned on Jan. 
I 7, 1998, after losing 13 of 14 games. 
The Hawks went 3-10 the rest 
of the season with Calloway as 
interim coach. He got the job 
outright after the season, but 
encountered more problems. 
In June, three players, includ­
ing two projected starters, were 

RECRUITING DATES: February 25 & 26, 1999 at Career and Placement Services. Open to all majors. SIGN UPS START FEBRUARY 1st. 
Worried about homelessness? 
Pray with us. 
lnteMffl1 ffllll 

...featuring the Celebration Choir.
-
Wednesday Nights 
0MPIJ5 
tv11Nl5TRY 10:00 -10:30pm • Walsh Chapel 
dropped from the team for vio­upperclassmen. cnt, but we hadn't been able to lating the university's code of "I haven't been paying atten­get the win. We just needed conduct. Another starter trans­tion to our losing streak or any­something to get us over. Last ferred before the season. leav­one else's," Calloway said. "I've night, when the adversity hit, ing a roster suddenly filled with been more concerned with our we stepped up and made the freshmen and inexperienced guys. I knew we had some ta!-plays." 

The Notre Dame Law School Natural Law Institute presents 
The Olin Distinguished Lecture Series 
"On the Novelties of an Old Constitution: Settled Principles and Unsettling Surprises" 
Upcoming Lectures: 
.Joseph Raz March 24 .John Keown 
April 13 
Hadley Arkes 
Edward Ney Professor of Jurisprudence and American 
Institutions at Amherst College 
Thursday, February 4, 1999 4 p.m. Notre Dame Law School 
Courtroom 
• ~ (") «j (") •
: "'l Ya{entine's 'Day .Jlc{s "'l : 
• :for on{y $20 you can te{(your sweetfieart fiow • : mucfi. you [ove fiim/fier witfi a syeciaC\ra[entine's : • Vay adin 'Ifie 06server. • 
• for ~ie,(Y",OWVv<Ut"IMUI ~): • 
.• ------------------.• 
: I L"ve 1J"v1, ?e111/ :!>v1e!! : 
.• ---.• 
:: • V\c\ulQ,\\e.le, • :: \\\f;.'e,, 
.• --.• 
• '.ftAJJ'11 VA-le.ntim.'s PMJf Li;,Ve, ?>111(~11 •
. ·--............................. . 
: '.Reserve your aasyace 6y :fe6ruary wtli, andyour Sweetheart : • .'A.dwiffve in Tlie Ovserver on j'evruary 12th . .Jt{[acfs (and • 
• rrwney) must ve turnedin 6y j'ebruary 11th at u:oo am • • Ca[{1-6900 or -visit us in the 6asement ofSouth Dining :J-{a{l • 
• 
Wednesday, February 3, 1999 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
¦ MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Braves' pitchers start workouts at 'Camp Leo' 

Associ:11cd Pre.s~ 
/\Tl.ANT/\ 
Tlw t\tl,wta Braves' pitcliing 
staff is gelling a head start. working out this week at "Camp 
With the start of spring train­Leo," the informal program run ing still morP than two w,wks by pitching coach Leo Mazzone. away, Braves pitchers began Helping former closer Mark 
Summer Research -Internship Opportunity: 
The Environmental Research Institute, a joint activity of Notre Dame & Argonne National Laboratory (ANL), in collaboration with the Center for Environmental Science & Technology, will award up to two Summer 1999 internships at ANL in Argonne, IL -with a follow-up campus research appointment in the Fall. 
Stipend, room & board are provided for the 10-week program. 
Applicants should hove research interests in an environmentally-related discipline (any field of study) concerned with or likely to contribute fo the understanding, assessment, or improvement of the environment. Applicants must be US citizens or permanent residents, enrolled af Notre Dame, have completed their Junior Year by May 1999, and be registered to return in the Fall of 1999. 
For more details and an application, contact: The center for Environmental Science & Technology 152A Fitzpatrick Hall, 631-8376 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: FEBRUARY 19, 1999 
0 
Come Join the Tradition Applications are now being accepted;forf positions for the 1999-2000 academic scb.: 
~ 
You may pick up applications.at\ . Office of Student Activities . 315 Lafortune 
Deadline: February 26,\ 
Wohlers relocate the strike zone and boosting rookie Bruce Chen's bid for the lil'th spot in the rotation arc Mazzone's top projects. Wohlers and Chen are due in later this week. 
Wohlers, who appeared in only 27 games with the Braves last season, converted his first seven save chances but strained a muscle and was clueless when he returned in May. 
lie wound up 0-1 with a HUS ERA. walking 39 in 20 1­3 innings and was sent down to Triple-A Richmond, where he was just as bad: 0-3 with a 
·•·· $igewal}{ to the all-stars' luxu­
riou$ hotel, White added an 

ite proclaims Pro ,;:·~:'~owl his last game 
,, .,.. , -, .,.. . ,. 

HONOLULU 
~ ~(),g~ Wbito walked off ,.the..,Pr~ctice field Tuesday, he en,phasi1;ed once again that ·,t~t: Pro Bvwl is his. t'Qotball 
..i fipal.e,· ' Butafe.w tnoments later, as M'n:u,1.(l~ bisway.along.the 
•· }'unless ... '' ofsorts. Asked ifhe was leaving the door cracked fol' the possibility ' qf.:r:i"tu.tning to playfor the ..·•[;lay Packers' new 
.bi$ palRay@9iies,·for Q:rt}.season, White 
'· 
"There~$'always a r:rar;k in ·my door when God talks," said W'hite, auordained minister. 
White, who retired last April only to change his mind 48 hours later, said he had made the decision to retire this time after much consideration and prµ;yer. 
But then Rhodes took the Pac:kers' job, causing White to ponder what it would be like to play for his former defen­
. sive coordinator at Green Bay. 
"I've already caret'ully con­sjdered everything. and l'm retiring," White said on thti Pro Bowl practice field adja­
. cent to the teams' hotel. "Ha.y 
20.23 ERA, 36 walks and 17 wild pitches in 12 1-3 innings. In latn August, he was plac1!d on the disabled list due to an "inability to pitch." 
The informal pitching pro­gram, which began in 1991 -Mazzone ·s first full season with the Braves -opened Monday with nine pitchers and catcher Javy Lopez. 
On Tuesday, 11 pitchers and Lopez were on hand. a group that included NJ. Cy Young Award winner Tom Glavine, 17-game winners John Smoltz and Kevin Millwood, and closer Kerry Ligtenberg. 
and I have talked, hut at this point, I have made up my 
mind," 
Whlle on the Groen Bay staff, Hhodes helped convince White to sign with the Packers as a. free agent in 1992. The arrival of the great defensive end proved the beginning of the team's return as an NFL power. 
Rhodes undoubtedly would like to lure White back for one more go-around, since White, although 37, still led the league with 16 sacks this sea• son a11d was named the NFL's defensive player of the year. 
White's agent, Jimmy Sexton, said recently he doesn't think White was going to change his mind about retiring this time, Hhodes or not. 
With or without him, White believes Rhodes is a good match for the Packers, who lost coach Mike Holmgren to Seattle after the season. 
White. who has b1Hrn a record 13-time Pro Bowl pick but missed two of the games with injuries, is scheduled to make his record 11th appear­ance in Sunday's all-star game ,tt Aloha Stadium. Bonnie Loll, Mike Singletary and Lawnmcn Taylor also played in 10 games. 
Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown Spain 
An actress receives an answering machine kiss­off from her lover and 
takes  off  on  a  search  
find  &  kill  him.  
mins.  

oaoaom ~-.
cusn1ng au 1tora1um . 
ee a m1ss1on 
International Student Affairs ~ 
www.nd.edu/-sub 
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, February 3, 1999 
those teams. "We had a few terri­"l don't think we were creative ble defense efforts earli­
W.Bball 
Women's Basketball Standings 
enough last time we playf'd '.:1:. this year," s~id IV111y. them," Ivey said. "We tried to go Smee then, we ve real­
continued from page 20 
(Conference & Overall) 
to Ruth every time and when ized that defense wins The Irish offense, led by Big they shut her down, no one games and we've made East player of' the week Ruth stepped up. We've had some that our goal." 
CONNECTICUT I I I .917 18 3 .857Riley, has been unstoppable in good practices, so l think we On Saturday, they 
RUTGERS 10 I .909 18 4 .818recent weeks, posting an aver­should do well." held Providence to just 
NOTRE DAME 9 2 .818 17 2 .895age margin of victory of 37.5 BC has been the biggest sur­23 percent shooting. 
BOSTON COLLEGE 9 3 .750 17 3 .850po.ints in the last four games. prise in the ronforence this sea­Notre Dame has out­
GEORGETOWN 6 6 .500 12 8 .600
Riley put up a school-record 41 son and has climbed to its high­rebounded its oppo­
MIAMI 5 6 .455 10 9 .526 points on 18-of-22 shooting in est ranking in school history. The nents by a 10. 7 margin. 
VfLLANOVA 5 6 .455 9 10 .474 Saturda\''s victory over Eagles, •.vinners of four straight, Riley leads the Rig East 
ST JOHNS 5 7 .417 lO 13 .435 Provide~cc. The sophomore, have clawed their way into con­in rebom1ding (9.2 per 
SYRACUSE 4 7 .364 8 11 .421 who is third in the Big East in tention in the Big East and now game) and blocks (3.68 WEST VIRGINIA 4 8 .333 9 11 .450 PITTSBURGH 3 8 .273 8 11 .421
scoring (17.8 points per game), is stand just one game back of the per game). 
SETON HALL 2 10 .167 5 15 250one of four Irish players averag­Irish in the conference standings. Junior guard Cal 
PROVIDENCE 2 10 .167 3 16 .158ing in double figures. Sheila Notre Dame defeated Seton Bouchard will miss McMillen (15.8 ppg), Danielle !Iall a.nd St. John's by an aver­tonight's game due tu a Green (16.1 ppgl and Ivey (13.1 age of 39.5 points. The Irish knee injury, so the Eagles will game. "We love playing at home." ppg) aro all part of a balanced have stepped up their defense in start three freshmen. BC will The Irish will look to use the Ivey said. "BC is a tough team to attack that fP.w teams have been recP,nt games, holding their last need a big game out of Alissa home court to their advantage. play, hut I think getting them on able to shutdown. Boston four opponents to 61 points or Murphy, who leads the Eagles in Notre Dame is 3-1 against our home court is a big advan­College, however, was one of less. scoring with 15.8 points per ranked opponents this season. tage." 

¦ WAv Our IN LEFT FIELD 
'Dirty Bird,' Elway, and other Super Bowl leftovers 
directions ran you out of town. If you By JOHN COPPOLELL'\ don't think he's bitter, you probably Spons Columnist enjoyed tht3 halftime show. Is Reeves bitter about the his team's .Jm;t in case you missed it, Super efTort? Probably, but he shouldn't be. Bowl XXXIII is over. The Falcons were doomed for two rea­
If you did miss it, you didn't miss sons: (1) their victory o,·er the much -except the commercials, Vikings and (2) the Denver which arc always grl"at. The Denver Broncos. The Falcons' victorv Broncos beat the Atlanta Falcons 34-over the Vikings two weeks ago 19 in a game that was much more lop­was the most draining game ­sided than the score indicates. The physically and emotionally -on "Dirty Bird" was killed and will proba­any team this year. They beat a bly turn up in one of those "meat" team that is so talented that it is entrees served at North Dining Hall. sick, in their dome, on an over-
Not only was the game relatively time field goal. A letdown like the boring beyond the first quarter, but it one witnessed on Sunday night is didn't answer any of the "important" expected after a big win -see questions surrounding the weekend. ND-BC, '93. Some of the important questions left Furthermore, the Broncos are unans,rnred at Super Bowl Media Day an extremely talented team. They include: have dominated games all year 
Will John Elway retire? I think he and could have very easily fin­should, and I think he will. Taking a ished the season undefeated. cue from Michael Jordan, Elway will Their team unity and experience, leave the game in a way that about which allowed them to come back 98% of today's pro athletes do not: on from a 10-point deficit against his own terms. However, let's not con­the New York Jets in the AFC fuse Jordan and Elway. One was a Championship, made them a lock man who changed his sport, led his to win. team to numerous championships, and The fact that Reeves took the gained the love and respect of millions Falcons to the Super Bowl should worldwide; the other was Elway. Yes, make him an easy choice for Elway is a good quarterback and has Coach of the Year. He and the had a good career, but the success of Falcons have no reason to be bit­the Denver Broncos is a function of ter. running back Terrell Davis, the What will happen to Eugene Broncos offensive line, a talented set Robinson? Atlanta Falcons safety of receiving corps, and their consistent Eugene Robinson was arrested defense. the day before the Super Bowl for 
The Broncos would have won the allegedly offering an undercover Super Bowl with any experienced officer $40 for oral sex. This quarterback at the helm (Bubby arrest, ironically, happened mere Brister, Elway's backup, was unde­hours after Robinson was hon­feated in the four games he started ored with the Bart Starr Award when Elway was injured). Yes, it was by the religious group Athletes in cute to see Elway finally win a Super Action to the person in the NFL Bowl last year. His return this year who displays "high moral charac­was news in some NFL circles ... in ter." This four-time NFL Man of Denver. the Year, awarded for his work 
Could the Broncos win it all next with the community of Seattle, year with him? Maybe. Could they win had just left his wife and his two it next year without him'? Less likely -children at the team hotel when unless they acquire an experienced he was caught on a busy down­quarterback not named Bubby Brister. town Miami boulevard. The man groomed to be the Broncos' Given his role in the communi­next franchise quarterback is Brian ty. legal action against Griese, who is only two years out of Robinson will amount to Michigan and has no pro experience. nothing more than a 
tionally. Case closed. eliminated from the playoffs a few Infidelity. money, selfishness, imma­weeks ago. 
turity, replacing an icon, stealing a superior's job, settling personal The views expressed in this column scores, and lots of trash-talking. I are those of the author and not rieces­thought the Dallas Cowboys were sarily those of ThP Observer. 
~ ---------WHY NOT..II 
Previous Job: Financial Analyst Hometown: Colville, WA Resume Item: ND Student Body President, 88-89 
"Don't tell me you can't. ANSWER THE CALL--today!" 
--Fr. Tom Doyle, C.S.C., ND '89, '97, Rector, Keough Hall 

For more information on Holy Cross' one-year Candidate Program contact: 
Fr. Jim King. C.S.C. or Fr. Bill Wack. C.S.C. 
1-6385 
vocation. l@nd.edu 
.. ---~ FOLLOW HIM .... ? 
check out 1HE PLUNGEatwww.nd.edu/~vcx:ation 
In the grand scheme of things, Elway's slap on the wrist. r--------------------------------------,
retirement will be a boon to Griese's Personal action, howev­development and, with a relatively er, is a completely dif­
<itutle~t A~ttvttte~ h«1~ immetltc1te ~pe~t~~ +~-'W"
young core of stars, the Broncos could ferent manner. be back in the Super Bowl very soon. Robinson will have to 
Is Dan Reeves bitter? Yes. Imagine answer not only to his beating a tP.am better than the family, friends, critics, Broncos -the Minnesota Vikings -and Shannon Sharpe, 
zi1--f;. L-eu~e Me~M:et"5 on their home soil. onlv ln lose to but also to his team-Denver in the Super B<>wl in Miami. mates. In addition to Imagine that the team you Jost to was embarrassing the orga­the same team that fired vou a few nization, Robinson was 
J..f~ur~: zelm -7elm years ago. Oh. yeah, tqen·imagine that burned on the game's that team's head coach was a former biggest play -an 80­assistant coach that vou hired. who yard TD pass to Rod 
<incfts: 1-z times 4~ee\l< went behind your back (while on your Smith. Nonetheless. the staff) and talked to tho owner about Falcons have not penal­how much better he could run the ized Robinson and team. Finally, imagine that the team's Beeves has maintained quartNback and the Super Bowl's that the team treat the MVP is the crybaby whose immaturity matter as a family issue and unwillingness to listen to your and love him uncondi­
-

Wednesday, f.ebruary 3, 1999 The Observer• TODAY page 19 
LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD OF ND DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 

RILL AMEND 
• 
BOBI FROM NOW ON, l WILL REFER TO l"\'fSELF IN THE THIRD 
PERSON. 




¦ Monmouth College ¦ Super Bowl sub­ends longest Div. I los­plots highlight other­ing streak in basketball wise disappointing at 22 games. game.
PORTS 
p.16 p. 18 
O 
THE 
page 20 -Wednesday, February 3, 1999
BSERVER 

F 2003 
Davie inks top class, achieves 'second season' success 
By ERIK KUSHTO 
Recruiting Corresponde111 
... Today marks the end of another season for Hob Uavie and his staff. No, nul football season, but recruiting st>ason. Student-athletes from all over the country will make their college choices official this afternoon as they sign their national letters-of-intPnt to play collegiate football. Today is the day Coach Davie and his staff lrn.ve worked tirelessly for since their season-ending lnss to Georgia TPch just four wePks ago. In that time they have lngg1~d thouscrnds of miles searching l'llr thosn special atlilntcs who are the right lit for \lotrn Danrn. And according to tlw ··rerruiting gurus" who keep track of the whims of these 18-year-old phcnoms, the Irish have hauled in a top live class. "This could be Bob Davie's best class," said MikP Frank of Irish Hcport. "Coach Davie got some big-name talent. The dif­f'PrPncc bPtwccn this ymtr and other years is that the coaching stall' was very focused and got everyone they wanted by Jan. 22." While some hav,~ Notre Dame's class of 2003 as high as No. 2 in the country. Frank suggests that there are other things to consider. "A lot of time pnoplri got excited by tlrn hype," said Frank. "The best way to determine if a class is great is to see how it fills nePds. With the possiblr. exception 
¦ WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
of the defensive line, I think Notre Dame lilled their needs extremely well." 
The jewel of this ynar's class may be safety Gerome Sapp from Houston. Tex. Sapp (6-0. 200, 4.5) has the size, speed and tenacity to make a major impact at the college level. As one college assistant said to the National Hecruiting Advisor, "There are a lot of players out there who have speed to play saf'ety for us. But there just aren't many guys who have the speed und who will rock the receivers when thev come across the middle. Not Gerome. Gerome has the speed, and boy does he know how to lower the boom." 
Sapp was named the SuperPn~p Southwr,stern defensive player of the year. the SuperPrep All-American 2nd best defensive back and 7th best player overall. lie was the 6th best player overall according to NRA and the Sporting l\ews and he was named a USA Today first team All-American. 
"Gerome is a guy you have to like," said Frank. "He is very physical and likes to hit. Those were the kinds of' things Coach Davie and defensive back roach Tom McMahon were looking !'or. Sapp will have lots of opportunities to play early." 
Thr, area where the Irish clearly stocked up was offensive line. As this year's highly regarded class graduates. another excel­lent class takes its place. Joff Faine (6-4. 
see RECRUITS/ page 15 
Eagles aim to halt ND's streak 
By BRIAN KESSLER Assistanr Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame women's bas­ketball team (17-2), which climbed to sixth in the AP poll this week, will be looking for a 
little revenge Wednesday when 
NOTRE 
DAME 
vs.~
BOSTON 
COLLEGE · 
they host No. 20 Boston College. 
"The last two times we have played them, we had a really bad game, so I definitely think we're looking for a little revenge," junior guard Nlelc Ivey said. "We have something to prove out thorn. Wr, rrned to play hard as a team and get the job done." 
Since that Dec. 30 loss to then unranked BC. the Irish have gone on a tear, winning eight straight and going undefoatrd in the month of January. Notre Dame now stands alone in third placo with a 9-2 ('onf'ernncn mark. 
see W. BBALL/ page 18 


¦ IRISH IRON CLASSIC 
Strongest Irish pulllp up for charity 
By KERRY SMITH 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame students, fac­
ulty and staff will have a 
chance to test their 
strength this Sunday while 
contributing to a good 
cause at the Irish Iron 
Classic, Notre Dame's 3rd 
annual bench press cham­
pionship. 
The event, sponsored by 
Dillon Hall, will give com ­· petitors the opportu.nity to claim the title of "strongest individual" or "strongest dorm" and raise money for the South Bend Center for 
the Homeless. 
Event coordinators are 
quick to stress that the 
Classic is less about 
strength and more about 
charity. 
"It's not so n1ur:h a weight 
lifting event as it is an 
event to help the communi­
ty."' said Dillon Hall coordi­
nator James Genauario. 
"When people hear about 
the cotnpetithm, they auto• . 
matically think· it's Just a 
bunch of strong guys lifting weights, but its much more than that." 
In the competition's first year, Genauario estimated that with 80 contestants, Dillon Hall broke even, but due to increased partlcipa­tion last year, the dorm was able to donate about $200 to the Center for the Homeless. This year orga­nizers hope to attract close to 200 participants and raise $500. 
"That's an optimistic esti­mate, hut that's what we're shooting for," said Genauario. 
The Irish Iron Classic is divided into tlm~e separate competitions: the men's individual. and the men's and women's team con­tests. 
The men's individual competition divides entrants into eight weight classes with prizes award­ed to the top three finishers in each division, as well as 
see IRON/page 15 
vs. Boston College Men's and Women's Men's Swimming 
Today, 7 p.m. ,••a·) at Rolex National Indoor ar Buffalo
SPORTS
~, 
l,:-,.:;::, 
Dallas, Texas Priday, 6 p.m. 
ATA 
Track and Field
at Seton Hall 
Michigan State 
Meyo Invitational
Saturday, 12 p.m. 
~ Friday, 7 p.m.
GLANCE 
Fri.-Sat. 








