
1 
I\ 
Everything After August 
No Survivors 
Counting Crows find similar angst in This 

Tuesday
Officials investigating the Egyptllir flight 993 
Desert Life, but deliver a strong followup to 
have told families not to hope for survivors from 
their first two albums. 
Monday's crash. 
NOVEMBER 2,
Scene . page 12 
World and Nation . page 5 
1999 

Tile Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIII NO. 43 HTTP://OBSERVER.N D.EDU 

Cardinal Arinze supports religious plurality 

. Health services offers flu shots Wednesday 
By JESSICA DAUES New, Wri,~r 
With winter weather just around tlw lrnnd, Nolrn Damn and Saint Mary's students are preparing for nwrn than just snowballs and hot chowlal(i. They um prPparing 1hr flu soason. 
University Ilnalth Servir.cs is ollcr­ing frnn flu shots from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m., today and W1idnesday at the IIHshurgh Library Concourse and in 108 LaFortuno. Vaccinations will also bn held from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m.. Thursday, Nov.4. al the llesbm·gh Library Concourse and the Mason s,~rvire Cent11r. 
Saint Mary's studunts may contact ll!!Ulth Services for information about Ihm flu shots at various !orations on campus. 
"The vaccine out now is very etlec­tive, and the more people that get the vaccimi the less the amount of' flu casns on campus," said Hila Rossigno, a nurse at the University Health Cent(ir. 
College students are more suscepti­ble to the flu and other viruses b(1cause of the sp{ind at which they spread in a dorm environment. 
"Kids here come from all over the country and all over thn world," Rossino said. "Many times, the nu may bfl more prevalent in some areas of the world than others, and as stu­dents travel for fall break or Christmas break, they travel to places that may or may not have the flu. They return and campus can be.come a breeding ground for the flu virus." 
Influenza js a highly contagious res-
see FLU/page 4 
. Papal prospect overcomes family beliefs for 
Catholic faith 
By ERIN PIROTEK 
News Writer 
111 19:{2, a boy was born in Onitslia, Nig~ria. to a family that observed traditional Af'rican animist beliefs. 
Today he is a Catholic car­din,tl, the president of' the Vatican Council for lnter­Hcligious Dialogue and con­sid ern d by some as the probable successor of Pope .John Paul II. 
Cardinal Francis Arinze will give a public lecture, "\1essage of the Gospel to a Heligiously Pluralistic World at the Threshold of the Third Millennium," at 8 p.m., tonight, in the McKenna llall Auditorium. 
Arinze was baptized Catholic at the age or 9 -to the disappointment of his parents -and entered the seminary at 13. He was ordained in 1958 and in 1965 became the bishop of 
Onitsha. At 32 he  was the  
youngest  bishop  in  the  
Catholic Church.  

Ile had a significant role in the mobilization of Nigerian clergy, religious and laity that aided evange­lization following Nigeria's civil war in the late 1960s. 
When Pope John Paul I! called him to Rome as a car­din al in April 1984, 65.5 
percent of those living in tho Onitsha Archdiocese were Catholic, compared to the Nigerian national average of 
11.2 percent, reported Our Sunday Visitor. 
Arinze, who recently was awarded the 1999 Interfaith Gold l'vfedallion by the International Council of Chrislians and Jews. is dedi­cated to pnimoting coopera­tion between different reli­gious groups. 
"Heligious plurality  is  a  
fact.  Many problems  and  
challenges  
do  not  

theology professor Lawrence Cunningham, not­ing that he is from Africa and has extensive experi­ence with the non-Christian world. The last African pope was Gelasius I, who served from 492 to 49<, A.D. 
Arinze 's q u al·i l'ications also include his Vatican experience and close rela­tionship to the pope. 
··r he guessing game is always a lot of fun, but it's not always a sum thing." cautioned Cunningham. 
Excellent 
qualifica­

respect tions and
"Religious plurality is a
religious the public's 
frontiers. fact. Many problems and approval by 
There is challenges do not respect no means no Catholic guarantee
religious frontiers." 
hurricane selection. or Baptist Sevr!ral drought. Cardinal Francis Arinze popns this There is 
president of Vatican Council for century ­
no Jewish .John XXIII,
lnter-Religous Dialogue
inf1ation or Mus Ii m unemploy­ment. There is no Buddhist drug addiction or Hindu AIDS," Arinze said, in the 1999 commencement address at Wake Forest University. 
Because of the fragile health of' the pope, possible successors have been an increasingly popular topic of discussion. Arinze and Cardinal Carlo Maria Martini, the archbishop of Milan, Italy, top the list of favorites. 
"[Arinze] would certainly be a symbol of' the univer­sality of the church," said .John Paul I 
and .John 
Paul II ­can be considered surpris­ing choices. 
Arinze's visit to Notre Dame is at the invitation of professor John Cavadini, chairman of the department or theology. Arinze will meet with Notre Dame pres­ident Father Edward Malloy as well as with faculty, stu­dents and Holy Cross com­munity members. Arinze will also celebrate Mass in South Bend and Fort Wayne, as well as meet Bishop John D'Arcy of the diocese of Fort Wayne­South Bend. 


Immersion teaches culture 
By NELLIE WILLIAMS 
News Writer 
Lingering in the shadows of extreme poverty and a widening gap between the rich and the poor, the chil­dren of Brazil dance. 
For six Saint Mary's stu­denL<; and Sister Llnda Kors, the dancing children were just one example of beauty in a culture that has become used to living in a shadow. The group had the opportu­nity to observe a school play in one of Brazil's poverty stricken barrios as a part of Saint Mary's inaugural immersion trip during October break. 
"It was somewhat shock­ing in a way to see the beau­tifuI dancers and then see how they live and how they 
want to get out of their pre­The group traveled to the sent situation," she said. states of Sao Pa:ulo and 
"I really enjoyed meeting the people and the fact that t h e y allowed us to go into their lives," said Jessica Delgado, a sophomore who went on the trip. "I enjoyed the kids. 

"Jt was somewhat shocking in a way to see the beautiful dancers and then see how they want to get out oftheir present situation ... 
Sister Linda Kors director Spes Unica Resource and Volunteer Center 
Parana, experi­encing poverty. interact­ing with t h e Sisters of the 11 o I y Cross. visiting schools, 
a n d 
experi­
encing a 
different 

They were very respectful." culture. 
Kors and the student rep­The group stayed with th1! resflntatives were the first Sisters or the Iloly Cross, vis­group to take an immersion ited a paper factory, shopped trip to Brazil, where partici­at a street market, and pants would study culture, economics. and lifestyles. 
see BRAZIL/page 4 



INSIDE COLUMN 
The power of 
•

an instant 

It was the Monday of fall break, and no one was around. 
I was enjoying the beauty of campus that we so often take for granted in the hustle and bus­tle of our schedules when it happened. The sun was shining through the 
canopy of changing leaves, creating beams of light across the paths around the lakes. The ducks and the geese and the swans were gliding gracefully across the surface of the waters, com­pleting the serenity of the scene. 
And l was having the Colleen most marvelous jog; the Gaughan weather was perfect, no other joggers crowded the 
Viewpoint

path and I didn't have to 
Editor

worry about getting my workout done in time for a meeting or to write a paper. Lost in the musical world of my walkman, 1 could not have been more content. All of a sud­den and without warning, my headphones go tlying, I hear the crack of the case shattering and the batteries spilling out while the world spins out of control. 
I am lying in the middle of the path around Saint Mary's Lake, twisted in a way that no body ever should be arranged -even in yoga ­with blood seeping into my clothes. A signifi­cant portion of the pebbles from the dirt path dig into the abrasions on my hands and knees, but the best part is the unbelievable pain shoot­ing through my left ankle. 
Now, I've sprained my ankle before. A bas­ketball. volleyball or track season during high school was never complete without suffering this familiar injury. But l could never stay off of it for long. l had to get back in the game. l had to get back in the race. Instead of taking the advice of the doctors, I would just tape it up tight and ignore the pain. 
I never took the time to let it heal properly, which resulted in an ankle so weak that trip­ping off of a curb confines me to my couch. But this last fall was the worst. While most of you were out having wild adventures during break -or at least got to get out of South Bend -I was stuck in my room with a bucket of ice and a pair of uncomfortable crutches as my only means of physical mobility. I had to cancel a much-anticipated trip to Chicago, and couldn't even make it to a computer cluster to check my e-mail. 
The one thing I could do during my confine­ment, though, was think. How is that so much can change in the blink of an eye? One minute I was having a perfectly lovely afternoon, and the next I'm sprawled out in agony and covered with blood. I had taken more than the beauty of campus for granted -I had completely failed to appreciate the gift of healthy legs and the abili­ty to use them. It was only when they were gone did I realize how much I depended on them. 
How many times do we experience this with people'? Too often we take for granted our blessings and never fully realize the value of the people in our lives until they are gone. How would you feel if you woke up and your friends weren't there to listen, to laugh, to comfort or to understand? Do they know how much they would be missed'! Maybe you should tell them. 
Because anything can happen in an instant. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Noreen Gillespie Emmett Malloy Laura Rompf Jennifer Zatorski Courrney Boyle 
Graphics Sports Katie Kennedv Molly McVoy Production 
Viewpoint Mike Connolly Mia Nussbaum Lab Tech 
Kevin Dalum 

Th• Observer (USPS )99 2-4000) is publish«! Monday through Friday exccpr during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights ar<e reserved. 
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Tuesday, November 2, I 999 
QUOTES OF THE WEEK  
"He knew so much about  "I can tell you today  "On the one side, I feel it's  
the game and really cared  that [the struggle]  necessary for learning. But on  
about the players who  is hopeful ...  the other side, l feel it's an  
playedfor him.  He was  unnecessary waste oflife. "  
a great man."  Joanna Deeter  
on recovering from  Junior Christina Pride  
Julie Radke on late SMC  eating disorders  on animal dissection  
basketball coach Marv Wood  

Compiled from U-Wire reports 

OUTSIDE THE DOME 


Colorado students' Halloween parties turn to riots 
BOULDER, Colo. "People need to vent. It's in its front window with a crutch. A section of University Hill "People need to vent," he said.
[the driver's fault] for

resembled a war zone early "It's (the driver's fault) for parking Sunday morning after a block party parking on the street." on the street.·• turned into a riot iate Saturday At 11 :50 p.m., Boulder Police night. Commander Joe Pelle requested
unidentified rioter

The riot began after multiple support from area police agencies, house parties on the block of 10th according to the city's news and Pleasant streets overflowed release. Approximately 50 officers onto sidewalks and the street. from the Boulder Police
and overturned two vans. One
According to a news release from Department, Boulder County
onlooker, CU sophomore Alexandra
the City of Boulder, Boulder police Sheriff's Office and Boulder
Perakis, said that a fight broke out
officers on routine patrol Emergency Squad responded.
after rioters overturned one of the
approached members of the Sigma When CU freshmen Matt Linton 
vans and stood on its side. 
Nu fraternity near the corner of and Joel Rinsky arrived at the
The van's owner quickly jumped
10th and Pleasant streets at about scene around 12:30 a.m., they
up on the car's side, trying to get
11 :30 p.m. and asked them to shut were warned by police to stay
people down, but his attempt was
down their party. away.
unsuccessful and he began punch­
However, as revellers -some The two said police told them
ing people out of frustration,
500, according to police -spilled that law officials had been autho­
according to Perakis. Minutes
onto the street, the mayhem began. rized to use any force necessary,
later, an unidentified man walked
Rioters dressed in Halloween cos­including tear gas and rubber bul­
up to the van and started bashing
tumes started at least two bonfires lets, to disperse the crowd. 
Court says student can sue U. Nebraska 
LINCOLN, Neb. 
The Nebraska Supreme Court ruled Friday that a student who fell from the third floor of a University of Nebraska-Lincoln fraternity house in 1993 can sue the university for negligence. Jeffrey K. Knoll fell from the Phi Gamma Delta Fraternity while trying to escape a "pledge sneak" hazing Nov. 3, 1993. "The university had a duty, a legal duty, to protect someone such as Mr. Knoll," said attorney Joseph McQuillan, who rep­resented Knoll in court. Friday's ruling reversed a dis­trict court ruling that said the university did not owe Knoll the duty of protecting him. As part of the hazing, members of the Phi Gamma Delta Fraternity kid­napped Knoll from the basement of Andrews Hall, tackled him and handcuffed him to a member of the fraternity before taking him back to the house, the court opinion said. Once inside, Knoll allegedly was handcuffed to a radiator and given 15 shots of brandy and whisky and three to six beers in a two-and-a-half hour period. Knoll allegedly became ill and was taken to a third-tloor bathroom where he was handcuffed to a toilet pipe. 
Five stabbed outside Syracuse bar 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. 
Three Syracuse University football players and two other men were stabbed early Sunday morning after being attacked by several men outside a bar on the city's west side, according to Syracuse police. David Byrd, 21, a starting cornerback for the Orangemen, sustained severe neck and shoulder wounds during a brawl involv­ing between 60 and 75 people outside Sadie's Place, 104 Seymour St., police said. The senior sociology major remained in critical condition at University Hospital, 750 
E. Adams St., early Monday morning, hospital officials said. Giovanni Deloatch, 20, a reserve defensive end, sustained cuts to his arm, head and back and Maynard "Duke" Pettijohn, a starting defensive end, sustained cuts to his head and ear, police said. Deloatch is in good condition at St. Joseph's Hospital, 301 Prospect Ave., while Pettijohn was treated and released, hospital offi­cials said. Police charged two Syracuse men on multiple felony charges in connection with the fight, with one or two more arrests likely Monday, Sgt. David Sackett said. Police are still unsure, despite interviewing dozens of witnesses and suspects, what caused the melee. 

LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather" forecast for noon, Tuesday, Nov. 2. 

Tuesday Wedne,sday cfQ 
! 

Thursday Friday 
Pl'tJ11•ure: 


G (SJ ~ EJ, [ill rn, O· ¾~& 
High Low Showers R111ln T...lorm1 Fluniea Snow Ice sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy

Sat~rday . A10i1 ® © 
vra A9soc,aredPnis11

{y,..-._r,,·· .. j/\'.,., 
Atlanta 64 32 Las Vegas 84 51 Portland 59 41 Balt,more 70 41 Louisville 55 27 Sacramento 79 44 Boston 68 51 Memphis 61 31 St. Louis 48 31 Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow lee Sunny Pf. Cloudy Cloudy Chicago 45 28 New York 70 50 Tampa 76 57 Via Associated Press GraphicsNet Houston n 36 Philadelphia 72 45 Wash DC 70 43 

Q,Q,~q~Q l) ~ c:3 

Tuesday, Novemher 2, 1999 The Obierver . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 




Driver arrested on alcohol charges 
Observer St,1ff Report 
Tlrn driver or tlrn car that rraslH'd into a roausidn pole nnar campus Sunday was arrnstnd af'tnr blood tests showed his blood alcohol level was approximatdy .14, accord­ing Lo SL. Josnph County policn. 
Tlw l(1gal limit !'or driving in tlrn state of Indiana is .IO. 
Salvador Vc•lasquez, 28, was clriving south on US :111:B past Llw Nolnl Dame Coif Course at approximawly 2:25 p.m. Sunday when his car turned off thn right sick or the road and crashed into a sign pole. VPlasquPz broke his leg in tho accident and was transported to MPmorial llospital for treat-
BURN, BABY, BURN. 
1ST ANNUAL CAMPUS WIDE 
BONFIRE 
TUESDAY, 11/02 8PM•10PM MUSIC BY JUSTIN DUNN 

www.nd.edu/-sub/
HOLY CROSS HILL BETWEEN THE LAKES 
ment. llis car, a 11)85 Mercury Grand Marquis, was damaged beyond repair. 
Otlic11rs al Lbc scene reported that Velasquez said he had fall­en aslc~ep behind the wheel. Tests taken at the hospital, however, showed that his alco­hol level, whlln mcrnsurcd by blood, was 0.176. That converts to 0.14 on the scale used by breathalyzus, according to Tom N\lwicki of the St. Joseph County Sherilrs Ollice. 
Oriving under the influence convictions carry penalties ranging from n 90-day driver's license suspension tu up to 60 days in jail for a first violation. Subsequent convictions carry significantly.higlrnr opnalties. 
r(;,_\..J-l1,tJ)...1\.G ,'V .. ­







Connor: Blood binds men 
By SAM DERHIMER 
News Writer 
Blood binds men more firmly than other union, ar.cording to Walker Connor of the Middlebury College political science department. 
Such sentiment, Connor argues, is the very reason underlying China's claim to a Taiwan that has exist­ed autonomously for years. It is why Indonesia refuses to acknowledge East Timor's indepen­dence. It is, in fact, the most prevalent cause of othnic conflict in the world today, he explained. 
Though Connor is quick to admit that other signiti­-cant factors do exist, the locus of his lecture was to establish the predomi­nance of "ethnonational­ism," or cultural national­ism. 
"The tremors that follow those fault lines," Connor said, "are potentially more cataclysmic." 
No bonds, Connor argued, are as fundamen­tal or as strong as those linking one man to another through culture. A sense of shared blood reaches farther and endures more than any political or business bond ever could. 
And so, conflicts like that seen between Kosovo and Yugoslavia continually pre­sent themselves. 
"Because these nations believe they have shared blood, they believe they belong together," Connor said. Ethnonationalism often binds people together so tight­ly, it becomes a difficult situa­tion when some members of a 
Judge bans use of gay panic defense 
Associated Press 
LARAMIE, Wyo. 

The judge in the Matthew Shepard murder case barred the man on trial Monday from using a "gay panic" defense. 
Lawyers for Aaron McKinney rested their case several hours later. 
District Judge Barton Voigt ruled that the strategy adopted by McKinney's lawyers inthe beating death of the gay college student is akin to temporary insanity or adiminished-capacity defense -both of which are prohibited under Wyoming law. 
"What the defendant is trying to do is to raise a mental status defense that is not recognized by Wyoming law, and of which there has been no notice and no opportunity for the court or opposing counsel to consider before trial," he said. "Even if relevant, the evidence will mis­lead and confuse the jury." 
McKinney, 22, could get the death penalty if convicted of murdering Shepard, who was lashed to a fence anu left to die on the prairie last yPar. 
A "gay panic" or "homosexual panic" defense is built on the theory that a person with latent gay tendencies will have an uncontrollable, violent reaction when propositioned group attempt to break away. 

Conflict between nations that lack such a cultural bond can also be traced lo the same concept of ethnonationalism. Connor, in fact, cited a lack of cultural allegiance as the pri­mary factor behind the vio­lence between nations. 
Only through, "a reeling of total divorce, of non-identity" Connor noted, do such violent and brutal attacks become capable. 
"The nature of the violence that comes with ethnic con­flict never fails to shock," he said. 
He calleu on the audience not to under-estimate the power of ethnonationalism. "We need lo learn to see things through Armenian, Hussian and German eyes," Connor said. 
The problem in understand­ing where ethnic conflict comes from is that we too often look simply for rational and factual explanations. Until we can learn to recog­nize that it is the "passions and perceptions of a culture" that dictate its behavior, we will continue to see violence, he said. 

by a homosexual. 
McKinney's lawyers have said McKinney flew into a drug-induced rage after a sex­ual advance by Shepard trig­gered memories of traumatic, youthful homosexual episodes. 
The defense called seven wit­nesses, including two men wh claimed Shepard made unwant­ed sexual advances toward them. Closing arguments are set for Tuesday. 
The attorneys on both sides are prohibited from commenting by a judge's gag order. 
Other lawyers noted that McKinney's attorneys still could argue that the crime happened in a moment of passion. 
"This was gravy or frosting, but it certainly wasn't the whole shooting match," said Carbon County prosecutor Tom Campbell "They must have known ahead of time that their odds for getting that into evi­dence were slim and I don't think good lawyers rely on evi­dence that is slim." 
Prosecutors said McKinney and Hussell Henderson, 22, posed as homosexuals, lured Shepard out of a bar, drove him to a remote fence and pistol­whipped him into a coma. Police said that robbery was the main motive but that Shepard may also have been singled out because he was gay. 


pagc4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, November 2, 1999 
Brazil 
continued from page 1 
toured schools. 
"It was learning as we went. The sis­ters in Brazil helped with our agenda. We were their guests," said junior Stephanie Rosenthal. 
Hut the learning did not come void of life lessons, sometimes which were hard io learn. 
One tour the group took to a low­income housing complex in San Paulo was a slartling realization of the poverty the country faces. A resident interviewed by the students told the group that tho housing was a former high rise building, and projects similar to it were being pro­posed for the nearer future, and asked for their support. 
Many students felt helpless aftf!r wit­nessing the living conditions. "When we had reflection time togeth­er, I told them that each person has to 
find their own little avenue," Kors said. 
Many students noted the humbleness and simplicity of life the Brazilians live with. "They are not materialistic. They are very humble and content with their lives," said Delgado. "That's how they live and that's life. That kind of peace and humbleness is very rare to find in the United States." 
The Sunday mass the group attended was lively and full of energy. "[t's always interesting to see how mum though the people have so little they celebrate. And loud, too," said Kors. 
Students sa·w the difference between Brazil and their own country. 
"It was a good chance to explore another culture and escape from our lit­tle, sheltered world," said Katie Claussen, a junior. 
"I describe my immersion as one of the toughest, yet best weeks of my life," said junior Jill Penske. ''I've never learned so much about myself. my own country, and another country's situation in such little time." 

Students who participated in Saint Mary's Brazilian immersion program toured some of Brazil's poorest regions. 


ATTEN.TION­
uNoERGRAouA1E 
AND GRADUATE 
STUDENTS 
WORLDWIDE 


·, CENTER.COM 
PURSUE JOB 
AND INTERNSHIP 
OPPORTUNITIES 

THAT SPAN 

THE GLOBE 

\~ampusCareerCenter.com
~~ The world's largest campus job fair 
'\. '~,... 



The Observer. 
It's where you get your news. 


D.C. students qualify for break 
depending on the difference The district's Democratic
. New bill allows 
bctweeninstatc and out-of­nonvoting delegate in
for in-state tuition 
statc tuition rates. Congress, Eleanor Holmes 
breaks It also offers grants of up Norton, saidthe bill is "of to $2,500 for D.C. students historic proportions" to O.C. attending private colleges in residents because it provides
Associated Press 
thedistrict or in the adjoin­public collegealternatives ing Maryland and Virginia "similar to those available to
WASHINGTON suburbs. other Americans as a matter
District of Columbia resi­
While students in the 50 of right."
dents would be able to 
states generally can choose Washington's mayor wouldattend state public colleges 
from a variety of public col­administer the program. Ifin Virginia and Maryland at leg eoptions, the only pub­the money is insufficient for
instate· tuition rates under 
licly funded institution of allrecipients, the mayorlegislation passed by the 
higher learning in would have the authority to
House and sent to the presi­
Washington is the University reduce proportionally the
dent Monday. 
of the District of Columbia. amounts scholarships carryThe White House supports The bill "will level the and to grant them based on
the legislation, which 
playing field for district high income and need.
passed by voice vote. 
school graduates," said Rep. The program would notThe $17 million bill would 
Tom Davis, R-Va., who alter admissions policies atgive qualified residents of introduced the legislation. any college or university.
the nation's capital access 
"It will give them the key to The bill also provides aid for
to public university grants 
higher education in this the University of the District
of up to $10,000 a year, 
region." of Columbia. 

Pulliam Journalism Fellowships 
Graduating college seniors are invited to apply for the 27th annual Pulliam 
Journalism Fellowships. We will grant 10-week summer internships to 20 
journalism or liberal arts majors in the August 1999-June 2000 graduating 
classes. 
Previous internship or part-time experience at a newspaper is desired. or other demonstration of writing and reporting ability. Those who go through the Fellowships often find new professional opportunities opening up at other newspapers during and after the program. Wmners will receive a $5,500 stipend and will work at either The Indianapolis Star or The Arizona Republic. Opportunities for online training are available, along with reporting experience at our major metropolitan daily newspapers. 
Early-admissions application postmark deadline is Nov. 15, 1999. By Dec. 15, 1999, up to five early-admissions winners will be notified. All other entries must be postmarked by March 1, 2000, and will be consid­ered with remaining early-admissions applicants. Successful applicants wilJ be notified on or before April I, 2000, and will be asked to respond immediately with a letter of intent, at which time one-third of the cash grant will be mailed to the Fellow. 
To request an application packet, visit our Web site, e-mail us or write: . . . Russell B. Pulliam 
. :-• 
Pulliam Fellowships Director 
. 
Indianapolis Newspapers 

. . ' 
~eb sir_c; WWW,sl..tr[KW~.l.:ll111/pjr. P.O. Box 145 1:-ru~ul: l'~Ui.tm(ci·,:ar,1c\~~-l'11m 
Indianapolis, IN 46206-0145 

Flu 
continued from page 1 
piratory infection caused by viruses spread from the nose and mouth or an infected person. Symptoms include fever, cough, chills, sore throat. headache and muscle aches. Symptoms can last from a few days to two weeks. 
This should not be confused with the gastrointestinal flu, Rossino explained, which the vac­cine does not prevent against. Its symptoms include nausea, vomit­ing and diarrhea. 
So, for all those needle-phobics on campus, is the shot worth it? 
"Very much so," assures Rossigno. "Most of the time the only side effect is soreness at the site and maybe a slight fever, hut that is ran~. You cannot get the flu from the vaccine because of the way it is manufactured with killed vi.ruses. There is nothing live that can transfer the flu." 
Students who are allergic to any component of the vaccine, those who have rece~ved any other vaccines during the lO days prior to being vaccinated for the flu, or those who are pregnant should consult a physician before receiving the vaccine. 
The vaccine is especially rec­ommended for people who are immuno-compromised, such as those v.1th HIV/AIDS, those treat­ed for long-time steroid use, and those who have cancer problems. "Anyone with long-term health problems should definitely receive the vaccine." said Rossigno. 

.\ 







orld 


Tuesday, November 2, 1999 COMPU.ED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Police discourage children from Sunday Mass with pope 
NEW DELIII. India 

l'olico advisml India's parnnLs Monday not. 
to bring small childn•n to tlw Mass that Pope• John Paul 11 will celchratn Sunday, since authorities havn ban1wd milk bottles, watr.r contaitwrs and handbags f'or security n•asons. Banning bot.tins al a Mass "might he a first," Father Dominic EmmanuBl, a church spolrnsman, said Monday. But with some llinrlt1s opposing tlw pope's visit -burning nffigi1is and staging protnsts at tlrn Vafo:an-· Embassy -police wnrn stPpping up StH·urity. 
Cyclone devastates India's notheastern coast 
B/\1.ESIIWi\H. India 

Bmlie•s hung f'rom tnins and lloatPcl through lloor!Pd villages on Monday annr 0110 or thn most powPrful cyclones ewer Lo strike India dPvastated its 11ortlwastnr11 coast. Military lwlirnplPrs finally arrivnd with so11111 aid, but thousands W!'rti fnared dnad and millions Wf'n' still (pl'[ hungry and honwl11ss. "This is tlw worst !looding in l00 ynars. I would say it is tlw worst in India's history," said Asim Kumar Vaishnav, chiol' adminislralor of Bahishwar. tlw state capital. Al'tnr thrnn days without fond. shellr.r or clmm drinking water, shell-shocked villagers in t!w flooded eastern stall' or Orissa looked up to thn sky Lo see heli­copters dropping packnts of' protnin-rich food. With roads into tll(' area flooded. the food could iu-rive no other way. rvtilitary boals also appearer! in Lhe Bay or lfongal to pvacuate thosP maroon!'d on housetops and hilltops. 
Despite violations, Ukraine's elections have accurate results 
KIEV. Ukraine 

/\!though Ukraine's presidential election was riddled with violations, Lhe outcome appears valid in pitting incumbcrnt President Leonid Kuchma against a Communist chal­lm1ger in a runoff, international observers said Monday. With 99.9 percent ol' Sunday's hallots counted, the rnformist Kuchma led with 3(J.5 percent nl' the vote, the Central Electoral Commission said. Communist Party chief Petro Symorrnnko was in second place with 22.2 percent. Because no candidate cap­turnd morn than half' Lim vote for a lirst-round victory. the top candidates will face a runo!T in about two weeks. The date of the runoff will be snt on Wednesday, said commission head Mykhailo Ryabcts. Most analysts predicted Kuchma would win the runo!T. 
t41rii:d1Jltttl1M(l.11U
Dow AMEX: 800.80 

JONES .. 17·25 Nasdaq:
+107.33 
2966.43 
•91.21 
NYSE: 
~ 
LJ 
625.47 
+7.32 
S&P 500: Composite 1362.93 
Volume:

10,729.33 
655,800,000
+91.21 

VOLUME LEADERS 

COMUJft T1c,:·u1. , ClWfCF I cwo, Pf'JCE 
JNTSJ. CORI' IHTC •? .:n +5. 2525 77 .,. NlCROPJOrr COIP +2.H +2.U!O 92. 5~ TYCO nc
INTL L'TD """ -9 .2) -f..0600 39,9' CISCO SY&IT&NS caco .,. 32 +3.0U!5 ,,.oo DELL CO.:Pln"l,Ji D&LL .,.:n . 1.6200 ,0.11 MCI WORLtlCON IN WC:OM +2.&:L +l.18'50 85, 01 AMERICA OIILI~ AOL +a.:n +3. 0000 1,l9. 50 C'ON:PAQ COICPUTP CPO +1.12 +0.:U75 19.06 CIT.IOI\OUP IMC C +O ,23 +0.1250 s,. 25 ALLID 1'tllP CO MCC +O.ll +O. o,oo 1e.o, 


Wreckage, signals found in ocean 
Associated Press 
NEWPOH'f. lU. 
Coast Guard search crews gave up hope Monday of finding anyone alive from Egypti\ir Flight 990 but found a large piece of wreckage and detected a signal believed to be from one of the pl1m_Q's "black boxes." 
· · can 
retrieve tlrn flight data 
recorder and cockpit voice 
rncorder from the Atlantic 
occ~an f1oor off Nantucket. 
the devices could provide 
vital clues for investiga­
tors who as yet have no 
explanation f'or the crash. 
.Jim llall. diairman of llw National Transportation Safety Board, cautioned that the investigation -already involving more than 500 µeople -could be long. And he said thehunt for Lhe black boxes would be diflicull. 
"Remember that we are dealing with water 250 feet deep, and recovering and locating small objects like recorders is a daunt­ing el'f'ort," he said at search headquarters in Newport. 

Because terrorism has not been ruled out, the FBI said it is sending bomb experts and other investigators to Newport. But authorities stressed pilots who had been train­marks that might indicate Searchers found what there was no evidence of ing in the United States, a fire or explosion, search Larrabee called a "signifi­foul play. Pentagon spokesman officials said. cant piece" of the aircraft, 
"Nothing has been ruled Kenneth Bacon said. The The Coast Guard, fear­large enough to require a in, nothing has been ruled passengers also included ing bad weather on crane. They also located a out," President Clinton 106 Americans, including Tuesday, stepped up its signal, most likely one of said in Oslo, Norway, 54 people bound for a search for debris and the plane's black boxes, where he was attending two-week trip to Egypt human remains. Officials while scouring the search 
Middle East peace talks. and the Nile. admitted a new phase of area south of Nantucket. 
The Cairo-bound Boeing The debris collected so the operation had begun. The Navy will use 767 was carrying 217 peo­far -some of it by stu­"It is in everyone's best underwater sonar equip­ple when it plunged into dent sailors from the U.S. interest to no longer ment to try to pinpoint the 
the Atlantic from 33,000 Merchant Marine expect we will find sur­wreckage and the black feet high early Sunday, a Academy includes vivors," said Coast Guard boxes. The USS Grapple, a half-hour after leaving shoes, purses and teddy Rear Adm. Richard M. sonar-equipped salvage New York's Kennedy bears. Larrabee. Larrabee, ship that helped retrieve Airport. The plane went "It basicallv looked like speaking 35 hours after wreckage from the 1996 down without a distress somebody had emptied the crash, said the deci­crash of TWA Flight 800 call or any other indica­their trash dumpster," sion was based partly on off Long Island and the tion of trouble from the said one of sailors, Chris the chilly water. The aver­1998 crash of Swissair pilots. Kincaid. age life expectancy in Flight 111 off Nova Scotia, 
Among the passengers None of the retrieved water of 58 degrees is live was expected to arrive were about 30 Egyptian debris has any burn to six hours. from Virginia on Tuesday. military officers, mostly 

PANAMA 

U.S. continues to withdraw from Panama 
Associated Press 
PANAMA CITY 
The United States wmpleted anoth­er phase of its military withdrawal from Panama on Monday, handing over an air force base that it had used in World War II and later to help refugees and fight drugs. 
Itoward Air Force Base, along with the neighboring Port Kobbe and the Farfan residential zone, were turned over to the Panamanian government as part of a treaty that will transfer all canal operations to the Central American country by the end of the year. When Panama assumes control of the canal on Dec. 31, all U.S. forces are to be gone. 

U.S. counter narcotics surveil­lance flights from the air hase were a kev element of American efforts to ctirb the flow of cocaine and heroin from South America. 
The handover of the base was the first such event attended by Panama's new president. Mireya Moscoso, who accepted two white keys from U.S. Ambassador Simon Ferro as a symbol of the transac­tion. 
"This significant event represents another link in the chain of activi­ties that guarantee our indepen­dence and total sovereignty," said Moscoso, who took office on Sept. 1. 
Howard Air Force Base, con­structed in 1928, sits on 5,290 acres of land that contains urban zones with hundreds of small build­ings valued at $3 l 5 million. 
In the 1940s and during World War II. the base's landing strip was used by U.S. bombers and combat planes. The base also served as an evacuation point for U.S. and Nicaraguan citizens fleeing Nicaragui,t after the Sandinistas overthrew the Somoza regime in 1979. 

.
I' 
. ' 

page 6 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, November 2, 1999 
MILLENNIAL SERIES 
DEPARTMENT OF THEOLOGY UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
HIS EMINENCE FRANCIS CARDINAL ARINZE 
PRESIDENT, PONTIFICAL COUNCIL ON INTER-RELIGIOUS DIALOGUE 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 1 5PM BASILICA OF THE SACRED HEART 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 2 8PM MCKENNA HALL AUDITORIUM 
PRESIDER AND HOMILIST, MASS FOR ALL SAINTS DAY 

PUBLIC LECTURE: 

"MESSAGE OF THE GOSPEL TO A RELIGIOUSLY PLURALISTIC WORLD AT THE THRESHOLD OF THE THIRD MILLENNIUM." RECEPTION TO FOLLOW 
ALL EVENTS ARE OPEN TO THE PUBLIC. THIS EVENT MADE POSSIBLE BY AGRANT FROM THE HENKELS LECTURE SERIES. 




Tuesday, November 2, 1999 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 





Disney proposes new theme park in Hong Kong 
park here under a deal that took Hong Kong's government Tung said he expects the Hong tastic Disney anchor here in
Asso<iated Press 
months to negotiate with llong leader, Chief Executive Tung Kong Disneyland park will Hong Kong." Kong officials who are looking Chce-hwa, formally announced attract 5 million visitors in its Shanghai, in mainland China,
HONG KONG 

for ways to boost the battered the deal that will give Disney its first year of operations, creating had said earlier it wanted aThe Walt Disney Co. said economy and lure more tourists third international theme park thousands of jobs and billions in Disney park, and Tight said thatTuesday il will huild a tl11rnrn 
in the futurn. location, after Paris and Tokyo. business for Hong Kong, which is might be possible at some point struggling to bounce back from a as Disney looks to expand in new 
15-month recession. markets. "This will mark a new era for "We don't look at this as llong Hong Kong," Tung said in an Kong versus Shanghai. Clearly announcement that reflected the there are opportunities for 
changing times in Hong Kong. both," he said. He appeared in Government Hong Kong leaders have hoped House, the formal mansion of a Disney park can improve the British colonial governors, sur­battered economy, first by creat­rounded by Mickey Mouse and ing construction jobs and later 
Study Abroad in Australia 

Study Australia offers flexible Winter, 

other Disney characters. by attracting more tourists. Hong Kong will put up $2.88 Economists agree Disney billion, Tung said. Disney will would boost the territory's finan­
Summer and Semester programs 

initially invest $320 million, cial outlook, although they say according to Disney vice presi­the hype has obscured the fact dent Steve Tight. that it would be f'ar from a cure­
Hong Kong will have a 57 per­all.
Variety of Academic Disciplines Available 

cent stake in the project; the size Hong Kong Financial Secretary of Disney's stake was not imme­Donald Tsang made headlines in diately confirmed although there March by confirming during his have been no previous indica­annual budget speech that talks tions of other parties being between Ilong Kong and Disney
Unique Rugby and Golf Programs 

involved. were getting serious -although Critics have wondemd if Hong the sides missed a July 1 dead­Kong might be making too many line amid disagreements over
combine Athletics, Academics and Travel 

concessions in financial order to lure arrange­
"It turns out to be a very
Disney, but ments and Tung promised strong and attractive had to keep a big boost to talking till
investment for both Hong 
the economy. the end of
Kong and Disney."
Tight, mean­October. while, said it Critics was not fair to Steve Tight have said compare the that after
Disney vice president
monetary any Disney value of the park is built, investments in most of the the new park because Disney is jobs will be low-skill, low-wage

For more information visit 

bringing its famous characters employment. and world-beating theme park Andy Xie, a I long Kong econo­

http://www.study-australia.com 

experience to the table. mist at Morgan Stanley Dean "We're bringing the best of the Witter, said Monday that con­best," Tight said. struction of a Disney park would The park will be a mix of East help Hong Kong, which has just and West, centered around a suffered an extended recession
STUI IDY 
AUISTIR.AIL~A 

traditional Magic Kingdom castle brought on by Asia's economic and featuring performances in crisis. Cantonese, the local Chinese The Disney park is expected to1200 Wales Ave. *Birmingham, AL 35213 *(205} 540-4792 *e-mail StudyWA@aol.com 
dialect; Mandarin, which is most add up to $800 million annually commonly spoken in mainland to the Hong Kong economy as it China; and English. is constructed over the next few 
But the formula will be similar years -increasing the territo­to those used in Disney parks ry's gross domestic product by elsewhere. about half a percentage point 
"It turns out to be a very and eventually creating thou­strong and attractive investment sands of jobs, he said. 




Domino's Pizza 

both for Hong Kong and Disney, "It's significant," Xie said, and we are very excited about though not enough in the short being able to take it forward," term to bring Hong Kong out of 
Tight said in a telephone inter­its deflationary spiral, in which view. "It provides us with a fan-prices have been falling. 
Delivery to 
NDISMC/HC 

271-0300 

"Soap Bubble Geometry" 
Thursday, November 4 
7:30 pm 138 DeBartolo 
Professor Frank Morgan, Williams College
EARLY WEEK SPECIAL! 

Soap Bubble Demonstrations and Explanations

Every' Monday, Tuesday, & Wednesday 
NO MATH BACKGROUND REQUIRED!! Everyone is welcome!! 

The weekend isn't too far away... 


r-------------------, 
I 2 Large Pizzas w/ Cheese I I $899 I 
I I

$1 Per Topping 
I I I Add Breadsticks for $1 I I Good every Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday I 
I Visa/Mastercard/Discover an Checks Welcome! I 


L-------------------~ 






page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, November 2, I 999 
This Week in Campus Ministry ~,l Now that you've made back up copies 
,,~J tU \.'-1 

of all your important computer files 
.Extended through November 3 I '-t ~ , (e.g. resum~). withdrawn all your 103 Hesburnh Library, 112 Bodin Holl • f,1' ~c~ cash from the bank (roughly $4.I3) and 
~ \ 1~. J

~ tucked it safely underneath your mattress, 
Freshman Retreat #25 (Nov. 5-6) Sign-Up ,,,.. ('ll• 1•-..t,•' t k d h b · 
~ J. soc e up on mate es, attenes, Torgeted Dorms: Alumni, Breen-Phillips, Dillon, Howard, '-~--\l '& 1._ .. dehydrated food and barrels of fresh Keough, Lyons, McGlinn, Posquerillo West, and Sorin J ..-.? ,·•';\~J..A \.. water, watched every last conceivable r'\t.\'-J AU-Century ListTV show, and finalized plans J J.. ,, .. , , foJ,,YA~f..J;'lt;W M.Ul~nium's Eve festivities (Dick Clark is sure to figure in somehow), CONSIDER YOURSELF Y2K­
.Tuesday, November 2. 7:00 pm 

READY! Congratulations! We're ready to take on the next 1000 years together! 
.Bodin Holl Chapel Campus Bible Study I)r are we? Is this what ushering a new millenium is supposed to be all about: panic, 
• commercialism, and a bigger-than-average New Year's party? Hopefully, not. Start by asking: why is the number 2000 significant anyway? Next year will mark the 2000th 
.Wednesday, November 3, 8:00 pm year since God became human in the person of Jesus Christ. It's that simple: without Jesus, there'd be no year 2000. In other words, we've been counting years ever since Jesus 
.Wilson Commons 

was born and next year will be the 2000th anniversary since God gave us the amazing gift 
Graduate Student Bible Study Group 

of his Son, Jesus Christ. Now THAT'S cause for celebration! Below is a list of simple suggestions to help get us all JUBILEE 2000 READY AT NOTRE DAME! 
.Wednesday, November 3, 10:00-10:30 pm 

0 Check out www.J2000usA.ORG and get the low-down on the international debt relief effort . .Walsh Hall Chapel 
0 Attend a Pax Christi or Amnesty International meeting on campus and see what these 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer groups are all about. A spirit-filled, studenl-led power half hour of prayer ond music 0 Have a "power down" day: keep your computer off, don't use a car.use less electricity, for sludenls of all Christion foith traditions. eat simple meals, and spend the day with people you've been meaning to catch up with. 
0 Write a letter or email to someone with whom you may need to reconcile some differences.
Friday-Saturday, November 5-6, St, !oe Hall 

0 Read Dead Man Walking during a break in the school year. Freshmen Reteat #25 
0 Email your congressional representative about the campaign for debt forgiveness and encourage them to support a bill. (Get in touch with your representatives at WWW.HOUSE.GOV or WWW.SENATE.GOV).
Friday-Sunday, November 5-7. Fatima Retreat Center 

0 Support local businesses rather than large chain stores. Notre Dame Encounter Reteat #58 
0 Keep the Sabbath in your own way. Take some time on 
,,?}iifttll ~ ·l m1i.½\}rM., Sunday for contemplation, journalling, or prayer. 0 Learn more about Catholic Social Teaching by
Saturday. November 6, Moreau Seminary 

visiting WWW.OSJSPM.ORO. 
RCIA Retreat a Read a newspaper often, paying special attention to international news. a Donate to Catholic Relief Services. To see which
Sunday, November 7, 4:00 p,m,, Sorin Hall Chapell 

countries aFe especially in need, visit CRS @ Rejoice/ Mass WWW.CATH0LlCRELlEF.ORG. Celebrant: Fr. Steve Gibson, CSC 0 Make a mini-pilgrimage to the grotto or a quiet place on campus. During the Jubilee Year we are called to make a personal
Rejoice/ Choir 

pilgrimage in a form that is best for us. 
0 Join an Emmaus group through Campus Ministry. Call 631-3016 for details. Monday, November 8 through Monday, November 29 0 Check out the Henri Nouwen library on the 2nd floor of the Center for Social Concerns. l 03 Hesbu~h library, l l 2 Badin Hall 0 Shop at the South Bend farmers' market on the comer of Eddy and Mishawaka Ave, if 
Freshman Retreat #26 (Dec. 3-4) Sign-Up you live off-campus and buy your own groceries, 0 Reflect on the Jubilee texts: Leviticus 25:8-12, Luke 4:16-30, and Isaiah 61.
Targeted Dorms: Carroll, Covonougb, Farley. Fisher, Knott, 0 Cook and share a meal with friends in your res hall kitchen, instead of going out to eat.
Pangborn, Siegfried, Stanford, and Welsh Family 0 Read the speeches of Martin Luther King. 
Mmm, Good...and Good for youl 

It's NOT too LateI Sign-upsforFreshmanRetreat#25 have 
• been extended through Wednesday, Nov. 3 
Run...don't walk ... Run to 103 Hesburgh Library or 112 Badin Hall to pick up your application for this weekend's retreat (Nov. 5-6). 
Targeted halls: Alumni, Breen-Phillips, Dillon, Howard, Keough, Lyons, McGlinn, Pasquerilla West, and Sorin 
, I 
I 

Tuesday, November 2, 1999 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 

White House supports Miranda rights 
Bush bruised diving 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON


to avoid truck 
A federal law that limits the Supreme Court's famous 

Associated Press 
AUSTIN.Texas 

Gov. George W. Bush. the 
Hnpublican prnsidnntial 
front-runner, s11stairrnrl 
minor 
injuries to his l'ighL Ing and hip Monday Wh!!ll h,i dived lo avoid a l r u c k 


Lr a i It~ r Bush t h a t 0 V (! r ­
turnnd 1war his jogging path. 
Bush was treatnd at the so\rie and lat1~r trav!\lcd to New llumpshirn f"or a schccl­111«,d campaign swing, said Linda Edwards, Bush's prnss sm:rntary. 
Bush said hn foll !inn. "If I nccd1\d to I could go out um! run tllrnc miles," Im said niter arriving at tlw Bm·lin Airport in Milan, N.11. 
Staff Sgt. Roscoo I luglmy, a 31J-ynar-old Toxas Dcpartnwnt of Public Safety agcml who was accompa­nying Bush on u bicycle. nicPivt>d bruises to his lef'l side, DPS spokeswoman Tela Mang1, said. lie was treatml al tlrn Brackenridge Hospital emergency room and rPIC'asnd about four hours later, said hospital spokes­woman Stephanie Elsea. 
Bush was running on the hikn-und-bikc trail around Town Lake downtown 
Government lawyers twice
good driving
"/ was at the end ofa

when the 
had won month-long delays in
record, the 

accident three-mile run when I 
having to file the document.
company said 

occ u rrnd 
The Supreme Court has not
heard the noise, looked in a written 

a b o u t 
said whether it will review a
statement.
back, and saw it start to

I 2 : 0 <> 
case in which a Maryland
W a s t e 

p . Ill . ' tip and my instincts 
man's bank-robbery convic­
Management 
tion raises an important ques­

according were to dit,e." spokes-
t () 
tion about the Miranda rul­
w o m a n 

Edwards 
ing's future vitality.
Cherie Rice 

and the George W. Bush, Jr. 
In its Miranda ruling, a
said the truck 


Austin presidential candidate 
Supreme Court far more lib­
"experienced

Police 
eral than it is today sought to
a shifting of 
remedy what it called the
wash1 mater­

Dqmrtmcnt. 
"inherently coercive" atmos­
ial" and that both companies

A truck pulling a dump­
phere of police interrogations
wern investigating. She said

ster-like trailer was traveling 
by imposing procedural pro­
they "regret this unfortu­

on the street that parallels 
tections.
nate incident and offer sin­

Urn jogging trni I when H 
The court said police must
cere apologies to the gover­

overturned. Debris -indud­
te)l suspects they have
nor and his security oflicer." 

ing chunks of concrete and 
Bush said the accident 

wood -were dumpnd acrnss 
wouldn't curb his jogging on 

tel!iphone from 
NHw llampshire. 
lie said he scraped his right Ing and hip when hn divnd bnhind a bridgn support, but was not strnck by dnbris l'rom the truck. 
"J'vu got a signil"­icallt strawherry," Bush said. 
Ile said he was pleased to learn that llughny was not seriously injured. 
'Tm very lucky and so is thn DPS agent. 1 was very concnrned about him," Hush said. 
A witness, Enwsl Bl'dfnrd. 50, a pip<dinc inspector for the city who was 
rights.These rights include a tf0You have the right to remain silent ... " 
lawyer's advice , . while answering 

. Police have issued warnings to criminals
questions any questoins, and being arrested since the Supreme court 1966 also the rightto ruling In Miranda vs. Arizona. the information that a lawyer will 
. Law enforcement authorities initially hated 
be appointed to 

m~ r~H~Q but eventually credited It with
represent them if 

"''Improving police efficiency.
they cannot afford to hire one or 

choose not to pay ,;1f Opposlthm never fully disappeared and for an attorney. man~ now argue that the Miranda rights have The ruling becc:,me an excuse to with hold vital evidence flowed from the 
from court. 
F i f t h Via A•~olaled p,.,. Amendment's guarantee that no one "shall bn com-
to prosecutors.
pelled in any criminal case to Worried that federal agents'be a witness against himself." 
errors might lead to truthful
But the court never explicitly confessions bning thrown outsaid its decision or the police of court. Congress sought to
warnings were required by overturn the Miranda ruling
the Fifth Amendment. 

in 1968 and passnd a law that
The Justice Department, 
said federal courts do not
while acknowledging that the 
have to dismiss confessions
warnings "are not themselves made without Miranda warn-
mandated by the fifth 
ings.
Amendment," said the But the law. known as
Miranda rules "have a consti­Section 3501. lay largnly dor­tutional foundation." 
mant for nearly :w years,
It added: "At this point in 
until a surprising federal
time, 33 years after Miranda 
appeals court ruling lust 
was decided and many years April.
after it has been absorbed 
The 4th U.S. Circuit Court, 
working nearby, said he didn't hoar any brakes squ!ial. just "a big, loud bang." 
Bodford said ho saw Bush in th.i clear but "the other guy was reaching his hand up out of the debris." 
Bush usnc.l lluglrny's cellu­lar tt'iephono to call DPS of'li­cials al the Governor's Mansion, and Lhey called 911, Edwards said. "The govnrnor stayed with Roscoe until hn was in thn amhu­lance," she said. 
Hughey is a nrnmber of Bush's security detail. 
Campaign spokeswoman Mindy Tucknr saict thcrtn~U"S no reason to suspect that the drivnr intended to hit the governor. 
"We'rn not clear what mado it lose control. but the truck was out of control," Edwards said. 
t\uslin police spokesman Kevin Buchman said the accident remained under investigation and that no charges had b(l(m filed as of Monday !wening. 
Because no one was killed, any ponalty would likely be nn rnon, than u couple of traffic Uckel'l, Buchman said. 
Police did not immediately release the truck driver's 
name. 
The truck was operated by Longhorn Disposal, a sub­sicl iary of Houston-base Waste Management. The dri­ver has worked !'or Waste Management for 13 years 
and has a 
Miranda decision and makes it easier to 
use crimi­nal sus­pects' con­fessions against them can­not lawful­ly be enforced, 

t h e Clinton Clinton adminis­t.ration argued Monday. In a written brief filed wilh the Supreme Court, Justice Department lawyers said the 1966 Miranda decision "is of constitutional dimension" and "cannot. hn supcrsrded mere­ly by legislation." The so-called Miranda warnings are familiar to gen­erati.ons of Americans who Viflwecl counlless arrests in movies and on TV: "You havn the right to remain silent. Anything you say may be used against you." Civil libertarians have hailed the warnings for pro­tecting individual rights, but some critics say the required police warnings exact a heavy toll, seriously harming public safety. Police have been giving the warnings before questioning criminal suspects ever since the 1966 ruling in Miranda vs. Arizona said they had to. In an unusual move, Attorney General Janet Reno joined other Justice Department officials in sign­ing Monday's brief. 

into police practices, judicial proce­d u r es 
"At this point in time ...
and the public many years after it has under­
been absorbed into police 
standing, 

practices, judicial procedures
t h e Miranda and the public 
decision understanding, the Miranda 
should 

decision should not be
not be 

o v e r -overruled. " 
ruled." Many 


statement by
a w 


The Justice Department
enforce­m e n t authorities initially hated the 
ruling in the case of a Maryland 
m a n 
accused in seven bunk robberies in Maryland a n d Virginia, said Charles Dickerson's incriminat­ing remarks to FBI agents should be admitted as 

1966 ruling but eventually credited it with improving police efficiency. Opposition never disappeared entirely, however. 
At issue in the case now before the justices is what should happen when police, intentionally or not, fail to give the warnings. Such fail­ures now routinely result in a valuable piece of' evidence ­a confession or some incrimi­nating statement -being lost trial evi"dence against him even though he may not have received a proper Miranda warning. 
The appeals court, by an 8­5 vote, ruled that Section 3501 means that failing to issue Miranda warnings no longer requires automatic exclusion of evidence in fed­eral prosecutions. Justice Department lawyers had not invoked the law in seeking to have Dickerson's conviction upheld. 
the jogging path. 
public streel'>. 

"I was at the end of' u 
"I intend to go jogging

thrmi-rnile run when I heard 
lagainl on the very same

the noise, lnoknd back, saw it spot," he said. 
start to tip and my instincts wcrn to dive," Bush said by 
HOMES FOR RENT 



ST(TJ)Y IN 

•Domus PropeHes has two, fhrc. 







OXFORD. 

sbc.,and nlne bedroom student 
Live with British 

housing avaJlable 

students in the very 

-Student neighborhoods dos~ to 

center as a Registered 
campus


Vis.ting Student of 

---Se<:urlty systems provided 

a medieval college 

-Well maintained homes

with university privileges. 

.Malntenance $faff on call 
Summer and graduate study 
Washington International Studies Council 
214 Massachusetts Avenue, N.E. 

Available for the 2000/200 I school year 
Washington, D.C. 20002 Phone Number: (202) 547-3275 Free Telephone: (800) 323-WISC 

BETTER HURRY!!! ONLY 5 HOUSES LEFT 
Facirnile: (202) 547-1470 E-mail: wisc@erols.com Contact Kramer (219)274-1501 or (219)234-2436 or {219)674-2572 www.studyabroad.com/wisc 
I I 



VIEWPOINT 
O
THE page 10 BSERVER Tuesday, November 2, 1999 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Nocr, Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining H.111. Norre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHl!'F 
Michelle The Punisher Krupa 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
M. P. L. J. Shannon Ryan  Cute Dav,d Rogern  
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR  
Laura Riggesr Red Perdle  

NEWS EDITOR: Tim The Big Hun Logan 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughen Si'ORTS EDITOR: Slow Boy Kessler SClNL EDITOR: Michael Yanega.s SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie 
PHOTO EDITOR: Goober l'ace Dalum 
ADVERTISING l\iANAGER: Bryan Lurz 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Bret Huelat S\'STEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Erik K11sht0 
CONTROLLER: Timothy Lane GRAf'HICS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INl'0..............631-7471 FAX........................................ ........... 631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
obse1ver@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF............................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AsST. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS 0FF1CE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT.. ...............................................631-5303 observer.viewpoim. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 
observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE......... .................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S .. .................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRAT0RS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visir our Web site ar http://obseroer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rates of print ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published afi:er 
to meet the edirors and 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prinr and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content is nm governed by policies of the administration ofeither insticmion. Acting as pub­lisher ofThe Observer, the administration of the University of Notre Dame du Lac prohibits the adver· tisement ofalcohol and The Observer's acceptance of advertisements from specified rypes ofgroups. 
The news is repor,ed as accurately and objec,ively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion .of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor. A.ssisranc Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and nm necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be direct­ed to Ediwr In ChiefM,chell,: Krupa. 


NEWS ANCHOR IN PODUNK, IL: Tonight we begin our crack coverage of the tri-cornfleld area with a report from our newest news correspondent, Jim Gray, who has just been mysteri­ously released from his NBC contract. Jim, what do you have for us this evening? 
JIM GRAY: Bob, I'm here at Don's Funeral Home and Vend-A-Bait, where the wake for Billy Joe Ray Lance Jackson is now underway. Jackson, beloved editor of Podunk's world-class news­paper, The Daily 

Mary Beth Ellis
Silo, died in his sleep on Saturday night. Standing 
Changes in
next to me and 
latitude,
looking just guilty 
Changes in
as sin, if you ask me, is Podunk's Attitude coroner, editorial cartoonist, game warden and Internet service provider, Larry Warrenson. Larry, tell me -what killed Billy Joe Ray Lance Jackson? 
LARRY: Well, it looked to me like natural causes, Jim. 
JIM GRAY: Really? Are you sure? 
LARRY: Pretty sure, Jim. 
JIM GRAY: Really REALLY sure? 
LARRY: But-
JIM GRAY: Because what we have here, Larry, is a guy who's perfectly healthy one day and suddenly suck­ing maggots the next. Did you ques­tion the livestock who last saw him alive? Did you immediately contact "20/20 Downtown" for a full and complete investigative piece on the matter? Did you notice if his Craftrnatic Adjustable Bed was fully reclined or merely in the Daybed position? I mean, there's just a lot of questions surrounding the death of Billy Joe Ray Lance, who was so obvi­ously cut down in the first bloom of his youth. 

LARRY: But he just turned 97. JIM GRAY: Well, you're just FULL of excuses, aren't you, Mr. Smartass? 
ANCHOR: Uh, Jim, why don't you move on to one of the other mourn­ers? 
JIM GRAY: Fine. Here's Billy Joe Ray Lance's widow, Clara Sue. Clara, that was a lovely memorial service for your husband of 68 years, was it not? 
CLARA: (crying) It surely was, Jim. The whole town turned out today. 
JIM GRAY: So. You must really be looking forward to the life insurance wad. The lonely nights on the farm are really kicking in, am I right? How much was the old fart worth, any­way? 
CLARA: (Runs away.) 

JIM GRAY: (Yelling after herl I'm referring to allegations that he violat­ed your farm's pet yak at regular intervals. How do you respond to that?... Damn it. Well, Clara's refusal to continue the interview is obviously a part of the Jackson family's contin­uing efforts to thwart the investiga­tive nature of this rapidly developing story, Bill. Let's see what other key players might have to say. (Makes way to casket.) Billy Joe Ray Lance, what sort of impact do you think your death will have on the Podunk com­
munity? 
BILLY JOE RAY LANCE: 

JIM GRAY: Isn't it true that you died under what some might call sus­picious circumstances? 
BILLY JOE RAY LANCE: 

JIM GRAY: You can take the Fifth all you want, Billy Joe. I've got just as much time as you do. 
ANCHOR: Jim, we need to take a break. 
JIM GRAY: Just a second, Bob. I have Jesus Christ standing by on a satellite hook up. Mr. Christ, you are Supreme Ruler of Heaven and Earth, are you not'? \ 
JESUS: It is you who has said it. 
JIM GRAY: Well, don't you agree that belief in a so-called "afterlife" is really just a manifestation of man's subconscious desire for immortality? I mean, Billy Joe here (smacks cas­ket) really isn't on some sort of sub­lime otherworldly plane, is he? He's just withered-up worm chow, am I right? 
JESUS: I am the way, the truth and the life. Whosoever believes in Me shall not perish. 
JIM GRAY: That's a pretty ambigu­ous answer there, Mr. Christ. And who the hell runs around using four­syllable words like "whosoever," any­way? Your statment is just a wee bit arrogant, don't you think? I mean, who died and made YOU God'? 
JESUS: Well, actually ­
JIM GRAY: You know, Mr. Christ, some say that you are your own worst enemy. Do you care to com­ment on that? 
JESUS: Amen, I say unto you ­
JIM GRAY: Oh, here he goes with the "Amens" and the "untos!" Listen, pal, don't try to double talk ME! The Fourth Estate won't stand for the dis­semination of false information! How does an obstruction of justice charge sound, buddy boy'? How do you respond to THAT? 
JESUS: You little snot. JIM GHAY: Thanks for agreeing to be interviewed, Mr. Christ. JESUS: Hey! March 4, 2019, punk! Obstruct THAT! JIM GRAY: Back to you, Bob. ANCHOH: Thank you, Jim. You're fired. JIM GRAY: What'? Is it me? WHAT? 
Mary Beth Ellis, SMC '99, is an MFA candidate at Bennington College. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. 

DILBERT 
I'VE BEEN ORDERED TO BUILD Pi. COl'-\PA.N'( CALL CENTER WITH 

INHUMANE WORK.ING 

SCOTT ADAMS 
E 
0 
BUT 1 DON'T FEEL
ci
.. u 
GUILT'< BECAU5E I'M
~ 
e 
ON L'<' ACTING UNDER
..
..,
• 
ORDERS.
= 
8
• 

AND MA'<BE 
E 

THE'( DID
0 
0 

SOMETHING
t: 
II> 
i £ TO DESERVE IT. 




QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"ff God is male, then the male is God. The divine patriarch castrates women as long as he is allowed to live on in the human imagination. " 
Mary Daly professor and author 
------------------~ 
I' 


VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, November 2, 1999 
Give Davie 
his due 

Thn head coach of Lim Notre Uame l'ooLball L<\alll is noL namnd Gerry Fausl. 
llis nanrn is Bob Davin. And he has donn a f'inn job. 
I wriLn Lhis in rnsponsn Lo the rather sPvnrP tongun-lashing that he has rncnivnd -undnsnrvnclly, I mighL add. Onn sLuclnnL sugg<istncl thaL we ought to kill Davip's dog in ordnr to get rid ol' him. It snPms that anytime that nvnry aspnct ol' th11 football is not pnrfect, Davin is lahnlncl tlw vnry pnrsonif'ica­tion of int:ompntnncn. And when tlrn t1\1Llll wins a game, Im is trPated with grudging courtesy. 
Tim truth of tlw mattnr is that Davin is a l'in11 coach. llis 1rnrl'orman1:1• has Sean Vinck lrn1n1 consistnnl. Tlrn tnam has madn 
stnady and nwasur-Nol Peace, But ahln progrnss. Tim rncord of tlw llze Sword past 2 1/2 years may not stwm to support this ronlPntion: Davie's cumu­lativn rncorcl stands at 21-12. Statistically spnaking, it is not spectac­ular. But looking at individual ganrns prov11s tlw point that Davin and his players havn treatnd us to compntitive, nxciting and ultimatPly succnssl'ul foot­ball sincn Stiptemlrnr 1997. During his l'irst snason, Davie was maligrwd for a 2-5 start. Ynt, tlrn detractors s1Him to l'orgnt a few perti­rwnt facts about that season. Davin inlwrited a team headnd by a snnior class that suff'nrnd from a d1iarth of' NFL picks. In spit<' or this lack of tal­nnt, Davi<' managnd to coach his tnam L11 a nnar upset or 11v1rntual national rhampion michigan, stunning defoats or 11 th-ranknd I.SU and 22nd ranked W1ist Virginia and a fivn-game winning strnak. lln also has the distinction or being tlrn first Irish coach to lead his team to a bowl game in his first sea­so11. In 191)8, Davin took a tnam that was plagund by low expectations and a p1ircniv11d lack of talent and lead it to a 9-:{ rncord, including an night-game winning strnak. Who can forget the stunning upsnt of' dnf'nnding national champion Michigan'! I still savor the satisfaction or Lim thrashing of' Stanford, occurring on the one-year anniv11rsary of their band's tastelnss insull or Notre Damn and Catholicism in gnnoral. Then there was the LSU ganw, whnre Notre Damo recovered from a 34-20 deficit to win 39-36, punctuatnd by Bobbi<i lloward's 89­yard intnrccption return for a TD. This y11ar, we can look to the amaz­ing conrn-from-b11hind victories over Oklahoma and USC, thn utter annihila­tion of A.SU and now Lim victory over Navy as 11xamples or progress. You might objoct to this. You may think that the failures or tho Davie reginrn outweigh Lim positives, point­ing to tlw 2-5 start in 1997 and the injuring or .Jarious .Jackson in '98, cou­p!l)d with the USC and Georgia Tech defeats. You may point to the consec­utive losses to Michigan, Purdue and Michigan State. And believe me, no onn was more disheartnned than I. Y11t, the point remains tlrn same: Davie, a tal1mted coach who continues to grow in his job. Both his talent for coaching and his toam's talent for playing are developing. .John Robinson, the former USC coach, said Bob Davie would win 100 games at Notre Dame. I think he's right on the money. 
Sean Charles Vinck is a junior. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not nec­cessarily those of The Observer. 
OTHE BSERVER page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Artists' work vandalized, stolen 
Last semester I organized an art exhibition at Heckers through the University club called the Arts Collective. The exhibition displayed the artwork of' Notre Dame and St. Mary's students and was intended to be the first of' many to be held at Heckers. Although the exhibition was a major success, a number or unfortunate inci­dents discouraged all involved. A few weeks al'ter the opening, someone knocked a painting off the wall and destroyed the frame. After I replaced the frmht) and rehung"t.he pmnting, it was stolen from Heckers. By the time the show was over, three additional thefts had occurred, onn piece of art was damaged and a frame destroyed. To datP, two of' the works have not been returned. In all cas11s, students in the Arts Collective had to spnnd a large amount of time searching f'or the lost works and taking care of' a variety of' papnrwork needed in such incidents. This was in the midst or their own busy schedules at the end of the year. We then had to apologize to and reimburse the artists, and this was both awkward and embarrassing for us. Most of all, we arn extremely disappointed to know that our f'ellow students would treat art 


in this horrendous manner. Such van­dalism can only be int()rpreted as a sign of' disrespect and as representing the lack of' understanding towards art by some members of our student body. 
The Arts Collective has decided to sponsor the second students' art exhi­bition at Heckers this year, and we invite you to both enjoy the show and to help us make it a success. Artists and art majors work hard and take pride in their work. Some students at Notre Dame seem to think that art is an easy field to major in, but in addi­tion to the long hours we spend in the studio, we have the same University requirements as anyone else here. Many of the pieces of art exhibited took months to complete, and most are the part of students' portfolios needed for graduation and lent to us for the show. We hope you will respect the work of your fellow students. 
Considering the value of' these art pieces, the Arts Collective will, from this semester forward, be forced to take legal actions against any person who vandalizes or steals work from Heckers. It would be unfortunate if we had to take such measures, but because of the incidents last spring, this has become a necessity. Any infor­mation about those pieces taken last spring would also be greatly appreciat­ed. We will not ask any questions. All we want is to have the said works returned to the artists. 

Members of the Arts Collective thank you for your support and for giving us the same respect every Notre Dame and St. Mary's student is entitled to. 
Jo Mikals-Adachi Secretary, Arcs Collective Junior BFA, Sorin Hall November I. 1999 

Campus Ministry pledges compassion, inclusion 
A miracle happ()ll()d today: I wtmt to Sunday Mass alone remember it 15 years ago, a heavy burden was lifted from for the first time in a dozen years. Actually, it was the first my heart. I wept, though I was no longer afraid! time I went anywhere alone in that length of time. I suffer There I stood: in a crowd of people, away from the safety from panic attacks with agoraphobia. These disorders are of home, and, in my life experience, "alone." But I no longer very crippling, as they often confine me to my home or even trembled. It might not b() much to you, but for me, it was a only my room, for days or weeks at a time. It is not much miracle. of a lif'e. ------The only reason I attempted to attend Mass today 
These attacks began when I was in my 20s, immediately after I "cameout" to my parents. The separation anxiety built up over the years was too much to bear. Messages from society, as well as from Notre Dame where I was an undergrad in the '80s, hammered into my psyche that I would lose my family, my friends, my job, my Church and perhaps my life if' it was ever discovered that I am gay. Surely my parents would put me out on the street. 
It happened to a friend of mine (also an Notre Dame student) the year before; she never returned to Notre Dame, and never went home again. 
These homophobic messages were stronger than I was, and I am still struggling with the fall­out today. My parents never threw me out. Still, the damage to my mental health was done. 
Today, my alma mater reached out to me as a gay person for the first time. It was Solidarity Sunday, an opportunity to preach tolerance and inclusiveness for gays, lesbians and bisexuals. I am a member of GALA-ND/SMC, and I never believed I would see such a day on campus ... but I did, and I saw it with my own two eyes. 
Gripping the steering wheel with all my strength, I drove to the Basilica and stood breathless in the crowd at the back of the church. I had not been to Mass in Sacred Heart since I graduated, although I live not far away. I never felt welcome here before. As the familiar "Glory to God in the highest and peace to his people on earth" was sung by the choir, just as I 

was because I felt Campus Ministry had sincerely reached out to welcome me -a gay person. I thank them for this. I thank the Lord for work­ing in mysterious ways within Sacred Heart to give me a new-found courage. And I thank 
all of you who support equal rights for gay and lesbian persons. "Come to me," lie says, and I now I know I can. 
I am a member of GA.IA in the hope that no one will suffer the pain of the past dozen years which I endure because of internal­
ized homophobia. A small gesture -a prayer card at a Mass -literally changed my constitution today. Thus, the significance of this gesture was profound. In stark contrast to the advertising ban, it was the first I have seen of any tangible spirit of' inclusion at Notre Dame. It resulted in the Spirit working within me, too; for my own paralysis is at times no less than that of the man whom Jesus told to get up and walk. 
The Mass today was the culmination of years of' give-and­take by the administration and the University's gay and les­bian children and friends. But oh, what a difference it made in my life! For the first time in years, I stood alone, but not afraid. 
Please Notre Dame, do more to welcome me and all gay and lesbian alumni/ae home! You cannot imagine how won­derful it feels ... 
Anonymous 
October 31, 1999 
I 'I 


C 
page 12 Tuesday, November 2, 1999 
ALBUM REVIEW 

Desperation and girls equal good Innsic for the Crows 

redemption. As strange as the title seems, the song is well-structured and puts an interesting spin on relationships. 
Of course, there are a couple excep­tions to the depressing song pattern of This Desert Life. The otherwise-gloomy CD starts with the catchy, upbeat rhythms of "Hanginaround," and finish­es with the delightful "St. Robinson and His Cadillac Dream." "Hanginaround" seems to be reminiscent of some late-era Beatles rock with the standard piano and booming electric guitar phrases. Duritz even seems to enjoy himself on the track. 
On "St. Robinson and His Cadillac Dream," a song about a man's bitter and often comical views on life, Duritz sings, "I might not be going to heaven/ I hope you go to hell," displaying the charac­ter's freewheeling nature. There is also a secret song on the album that does the best job of holding a steady groove. 
One other interesting part of This 
Desert Life is almost all of the tracks are piano-based. Guitars are used more on this record as musical ornamentation rather than strong anchors. This is not to say guitars are missing -that is not the case at all. It just seems as though the band does not have to rely as much on a steady riff to start every song. Strings are also successfully used on a few tracks, not getting in the way of the band. A flute even appears on "Colorblind." 
The Counting Crows has not changed much since its 1993 breakthrough, but the simple fact of the matter is there is not much changing they should do. Sure, the girls' names have changed a little bit, and the piano seems to be the instrument of choice nowadays, but the song remains the same: Adam Duritz is an unhappy man. Well, Jet the bad times roll with The Counting Crows. Everyone will learn a little about life and listen to some good music in the meantime. 
By GEOFfREY RAHIE Scene Music Critic 
Desperation and loss never had it so good. After breaking on to the air­waves in 1993 with its hit album August and Everything After. the Counting Crows has been busy changing the sound of misery. Instead of the hard­crunching guitars associated with the early '90s, the Counting Crows has woven a sound filled with dassic-rock guitars, keyboard backup and Adam Duritz's heartfelt vocals. The band's suc­cess spilled over to a sophomore studio album and a double live album released last year. Now the crew gets ready to roll again with its latest offering, This Desort Li!'e. Some critics characteriwd the Crows' second alllUm. Recovering ihe Satellites, as a different sound for the band, a departure from August. Well, they were lying. 

And if anyone says This Desert Life is a new sound for the Counting Crows, they are trying to be tricky as well. Aside from a fow minor details, This Desert Life is typical Counting Crows, and that's not a bad thing. 
A friend once said that she liked the Couuting Crows because the inspirations for the songs are "real." Sure, most of the songs aren't too uplifting and could be classified as plain depressing, but isn't that what sometimes life is all about? Much like the other Counting Crows albums, This Desert Life is domi­nated by feelings of loss, rejectinn and other glum thoughts. The bulk of the tracks is either slow ballads or mid­tempo pieces. Songs like "Amy Hit the Atmo:;phere" evoke memories of past Crows tunes with its somber mood and sad lyrics. 
There are two main themes running throughout the effort -Adam Duritz·s· complete lack of' self-confidence and sad girls with problems. Duritz seems to always find a way to cut himself down. On the epic "Mrs. Potter's Lullaby," he proclaims "l am an idiot" for allowing his life to succumb to chance. Maybe he is just an idiot for dumping Jennifer Aniston. "All My Friends" and "Colorblind" showcase his feelings of emptiness and pain that come along with the rock-star territory. 
Once again, girls find themselves immortalized through countless songs. Although there are only two songs with girls mentioned in the titles ("Mrs. Potter's Lullabye" and "Amy Hits the Atmosphere"), there is no shortage of female names mentioned on the disc. "Elizabeth" makes an appearance fresh off her headlining role in "Goodnight Elizabeth," found on Recovering the Satellites, and there is a "piece of Maria in every song I sing" according to Adam. 
On the strongest song on the album, "l Wish I was a Girl," Duritz explains how he pleads with a woman for faith and 

South Bend 
Cheap Trjck Elton John Cowboy Nou1h 
WHco 
LiYe Nustard Plus Ash Robyn Hitchcock 
Marcy Playground 
The Roots Save Ferris Primus Chrlis Cornell John Scofield 
Hearil•~tl
Jacc ·?;i,~1;e:c'./ 
S1epan 


Chicago 
Riviera. Riviera NeC:ro Ne1ro 
11e1:ro 
Double Dp.-r 
House of·'Blues 
Ne1ro Riviera Riviera Park West 
Coun••na Crows · Araat!'n~ ·· Clueensryche Riviera· 


"''!t.~ 

·•··.••ov.::.,;:a•·· Nov. •I 7 
'··NoY.'.2,-4 Nov. 5 Nov.5 Nov.9 
Nov. 10 ··Nov•.....•ili NoY.'li• Nov. 12 Nov. 18 
·Nov. 20 Nov. 2f Noy.; •1"1}•14 Nov •. 1:a·· 




Today 

... Eric: Cla~~'1',,~m·•·Yarcll'f~t'C,lsTo Bluesbrealler Countil.iij Crows • l'his Desert Life Foo R911ters-·There Is NoC:hins Leff To Lose Marcy Playaround -Shapeshifter Rase Aaains1 the Machine -Baffle of Los Anseles Ti~,,,~~.olds • "'ff~I .P..oJec1ion Roois • ·Roo'C:s Come AUve 

November9 
Fi~.n•i~pple ...\Yll~n 1he Pawn Pauli,~Cole· -•· 1 Believe In Love N.issy Ellio1t .. Ho1 Boyz NataHe Nerchan1 -l.iYe In Concer1 Sawaae Garden -Affirmaiion 
-Gre~es1 Hi1s

' .,,·~··,.,j~.;a,,1 -'' 
. ..,.Cl -{l11a•r . . .. 
'' 


OTHE Tuesday, November 2, 1999 BSERVER page 13 
CONCERT REVIEW 



The Promise Ring shines at emo extravaganza 
By JOHN HUSTON 
Scene Mu,ic Cri,ic 
Tim l'romisr. Hing is urguubly Urn higg,~st indir band at tho momrmt, with its ,ww album, Very Emorgoncy, gPlling wide media attnntion. It has lJ1i1\1t fpaturnd in Spin Magazirw and now thr. band has a new video playing on MTV's "! 20 Minutns." Put them on tour with Burning Airlines and you gnt a star-studded. big-time cnw extrava­ganz,L Fvn11 tlrn crowd was !111rd with stars: llob Nanna (Braid), Elizabeth Elmore (Sargn) and Hobert Lown (90 Day Mnnl. l'rnrnisn Bing singer/guitarist !htV<'Y von llolilnn could lw spotwd at tho goll' video ganw -lw wasn't vPry good at il. but al !Hast Im writns good songs. Tllfl opnning band Cnntro-matic, from ll1Hllon. T,•xas. didn't com,~ in costumn -unless being borlng is a costunrn. It is assunwd that Limy am always likt\ that. though, so it shouldn't count. Tim rndeeming quality for the band was tlrnir drumnrnr. who provid­1,d tlw only sense ol' stage, prescncri by thrashing around behind the drum kit. !In should 1·cally !'ind a decont band to play in. It was his intensity and skillful playing during tlw rnckin' scmgs lhal 111 ad e Cci n tro -ma tic to Ierab Ic. bu l unfortunately. nearly thre1! quarters ol' its sc,t was ultra-slow. Most times it was the fr()ntman singing solo. His vocals were: reminis­cent of Bruce Springsteen fused with Hoy Orbison. The band's most serious attempt at. originality was its fourth member, who alternated between key­board and violin, but it was to no avail. 
Centro-matic wouldn't have been too terribly bad if its lyrics weren't so stu­pid -they mentioned the word "heart" just a little too much. But that's emo, isn't it'! It's also fairly pre­tcntious. 
Burning Airlines, the new band of l'ormHr Jawbox frontman .I. Hobbins, qui<'kly took the stage to set things slra.ighL It played most of the songs off tlrn 1998 album, :Vlission:hnpossible!, as well as a handful of' now songs -all the while showing great nnthusiasm. 
Even a couple of tPchniral difficulties with Hobbins' liffcct pedals couldn't slop Burning Airlines from soaring high Sunday night. The wooden floor at the Empty Bottle was bouncing up and down in rhythm to every song under the feet of the packed crowd. 
The heavy, predominantly fast songs tore through the air with predsion and intensity, especially "Carnival" and "Crowned." Burning Airlines' use of math rock. or unusual tempo and time signature changes during a song, wBre well-received by the crowd, who were all seemingly familiar with the band's latest album. The new songs were even heavier than the older matf1rial, thus making its upcoming record look even 

ALBUM REVIEWS 
Medified 
Save ferris 

Seny Music 
** (out of five) 

By CHRISTOPHER SHIPLEY 
Scene Music Criric 
It must Im f,.-uslrating for pop ska bands to rncord new albums knowing almost every critic across llrn country believes lhal th.oir genrn is d,iad and buried in a shallow grav,i. TllrtH! years ago, pop ska was the toast of college campuses around the country. While Notn~ Dame's own Skalcoholiks were getting peo­pl,~ dancing on tlrn Fieldhouse Mall. bands llh The Mighty Mighty Bosslorws, lfoel Big Fish 
exception of "Let Me In," a slow love song where Powell's longing takes over from the group, the band strug­gles to create a sound which even attempts to be groundbreaking. 
After two years on the road with the Vans Warped Tour, the band, originally from Orange County, Ca., took a break in September 1998 to rncord most of the album, eventually finishing it last summer. The result is a tight-sounding record aboul dif­ficult relationships, which shows a mature aspect the band did not pos­sess on IL Means Everything. 
The flrsl single from Modil'ied, 
"Mistaken," is typical of 

a n d Sa v n Ft\ r r is w 11 re 
the kind of quality the sdling the national Iistener will find on the stag,i ablazn with tlwir disc. "So who are you / I l'i1ircn rww sound that thought I knew / I guess incorporat,id a long ( was mistakl'n," Powoil sincP l'orgott,~n instru­sings to t.bc explosive nrn11t in tho pop music guitars which push the sc:Pno, the trump1lt. song forward. 
Unforlunatnly, people "The Only Way To Be" bngan to rcalizl' some­takes a. stab at those 
thing-: il all sounded tlw sa 1111\. Tim r<i arn only so many arrangl'ml'nt.s a pop ska band can crnahi htd'orn the mus.ic lrncomns tired and worn-ot1L. Anyone familiar with lhc gnnn~ would rncognizc Savo h•rris' pop ska remake of tlw Doxys Midnight Bunner hit, "Conw On Eiln,~n" !'rom its first album. ll Mnans Everything. Tho song instant­ly lwcanw a parl of nvcryorw's mix liqrns and mp:{ playlists. 
Modif'icid, the sophonHH'P release from Savn Ferris, is l'un. The first Lrack. "Turn It Up," is fantastic dri­ving music with a quick tempo and S<\XY vocals J'rom lead singer Moniqun Powell. llownvcr, with the 
who would sell them­snlves out for stardom. using a beat and style that resemble Sublime and its other con temporaries. Modified is a solid batch of original music but never dares to enter new territory or take the band away from its pop ska lwritago. 
To the credit ol' the bands of the pop ska movement like Save Ferris. it was on to something. The trumpet and other brass instruments have since been used to reintroduce the American public to the sounds of the big band while opening the doors to Latin artists like Birky Martin and Enrique Iglesias. who have used brass in their music for years. 
more promising. 
The electric feeling of anticipalion in the air after Burning Airlines played its last song was thick. The Promise !ling eagerly started its set with the firsl two songs -"Happiness is All the Rage" and "Emergency! Emergency!" -from its new masterpiece album, Very Emergency. 
Besides playing nearly every song from the new album, the band threw at least one song from each of its six releases, spanning it~ 'entire four-year history. 
Songs such as "Tell Everyone We're Dead," from the 13oys + Girls EP, "\,Vhy IJid Evnr We Meet," from the spectacu­lar 1997 release Nothing Feels Good, and "A Picture Postcard," from the singles collection The Horse Latitudes, were mimed lyric-for-lyric by the exu­berant crowd. Every song saw bounc­ing, costumed bodies dancing around. 
J. Hobbins even joined the band on stage to do backup vocals and key­boards during a couple of songs. 
The band closed the set with "Things Just Getting Good," at the end of which Davey sang a line to each mem­ber. of lhe band. "Scott Shoenbeck, yes Scotl Schoenbeck, his head feels like a trainwreck lonight ... " 
The one-two punch of Burning Airlines and The Promise Ring defi­nitely had the force of a speeding loco­motive, and not even the weakness of Centro-matic could derail it. 


Burn TG Shine 
Ben Harper 

Virgin Rec~rds 
*** (out of five) 
By JOE LARSON 
Scene Music Critic 

Do you ever look through your CD collection and find absolutely nothing you want to hear? You know you like your CDs, but you just can't decide on which one to listen to. It seems like Ben Harper may have been having one of those days for the half­year it took him to record his new album. Burn To Shine. On one song Ben will be crooning along with acoustic guitar and .string arrange­ments, on the next he'll be straining to be heard over heavy guitar. 
Harper's soulful singing evokes images of Bob Marley and Cat Stevens, while his unique guitar-play­ing mixes the psychedelia of Hendrix with the power and riffs of Jimmy Page. Teamed with his backing band, The Innocent Criminals, who bring a thundering bass and percussion accompaniment, Harper's songs are completely unique, even when dipping into widely used genres of music. 
This album also contains some stir­ring string accompaniment and a fun '20s-era big band number called "Suzie Blue." The title track is a 
bluesy rocker that almost 
-

electric guitars. 
sounds like early Black And though his method Crowes. 
may be unpredictable, "Forgiven" begins with Harper weaves together a quiet acoustic riff that an incr(~dibly eclectic, 
turns into a blistering, 

tight album, which distorted rocker. "Alone" resembles its themes. It is a sad, acoustic song takes angst-ridden shots 
that predicts the topic of at old lovers and then 
loneliness for the entire quietly relents over its upcoming album. "Steal 
hasty accusations from the song before. 

Burn To Shine is Harper's fourth studio album. His previous albums contain much of the same elusiveness that his new offering displays, but they don't congeal as well. He gained attention for his acoustic laments about lost love and the harshness of the world on his first three albums, hut they were made up of only a few acoustic gems scatiered among elec­tric rockers. Though those albums are good, they lack the overall direction that Burn To Shine possesses. Each song, though different from the previ­ous, follows up perfectly, taking the listener on a wild ride through the 
My Kisses" is a funky song dominated by a bass groove that resembles Digital Underground's in the legendary "Humpty Dance." 
Ben Harper is a talented singer/songwriter who isn't afraid to do some different things with music. lie is inf'lucnced by virtually every type of music and mixes it all together to create incredibly unique and int,w­esting songs. 
If there were more artists as cre­ative as Harper, instead of boring groups like the Backstreet Boys and the Dave Matthews Band, maybe it wouldn't take so long to find some­thing to listen to while looking through your CD collection. 

'' 
'I 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, November 2, 1999 
NFL 
Holmgren wins in return to G.B. 
Associated Press 
GREEN BAY, Wis. 
During his seven years in Green Bay, Mike Holmgren helped make Brett Favre a superstar. In Holmgren 's first trip back, his Monday Seattle 
Night
defense 
Football
made Favre look less Seahawks 27 than ordi-
Packers 7 
nary. 
Led by Cortez Kennedy and Shawn Springs, Holmgren 's Seahawks forced seven turnovers, six by Favre, as they beat the Packers 27-7 Monday night. 
Jon Kitna chipped in with touchdown passes to Derrick Mayes and Shawn Dawkins. Ricky Walters ran for 125 yards in 30 carries, and Springs returned a blocked punt 61 yards for a touch• down. 
Green Bay, which lost for only the second time in 35 games at Lambeau Field, also contributed to its own demise with 10 penalties for 103 yards. That included two personal fouls on one play against offensive tackle Earl Dotson, who was so frustrat­ed trying to block Kennedy that he got thrown out of the game for shoving him twice. 
But the defense did the real work for Seattle (5-2). which has won five of its last six and moved into a tie with Kansas City for the lead in the AFC West. 
ln addition to his return of a kick blocked by Lamar King, Springs intercepted two passes, the first in his own end zone the play after teammate Charlie Rogers had fumbled a punt on his own 20 just five minutes into the game. Kennedy had three sacks and forced a fumble that stopped a Packers drive. 
ravre had an abysmal game. 
He finished 14-of-35 for 180 yards and threw four interceptions for just the sec­ond time in his career N the first came in 1994, w·hen Holmgren was still trying to transform him into an erratic prospect with a strong arm into the quarterback who became a three-time league MVP and led the Packers to a victory in the 1997 Super Bowl. 
That-translated into the fewest points the Packers (4­
3) have scored in a game since a 21-6 loss in Dallas in 1996. If that's any consola­tion, that was the season they won the Super Bowl. 
Holmgren's decision to decline a penalty that would have taken the Packers out of field goal range led to Seattle's first touchdown. So Ryan Longwell tried a 50­yarder, King blocked it and Springs took it back 61 yards for the game's first score. 
The Packers tied it five minutes into the second quarter when Favre hit Corey Bradford on a 10-yard slant. 
Seattle went ahead after an. exchange of fumbles typical of the game. 
One play after Tyrone Williams had grabbed a Reggie 13rown fumble for Green Bay, Bellamy wrested the ball from Dorsey Levens and Darrin Smith recovered. That set up a six-play, 52­yard drive capped by Kitna's 10-yard TD pass to former Par.ker Derrick Mayes, who on the previous plays had an 11-yard catch. 
Seattle made it 21-7 on the opening drive of the second half, going 73 yards in nine plays capped by a 2-yard TD pass from Kitna to Sean Dawkins. Watters had seven carries for 39 yards in the drive, which was helped by a 21-yarct pass interfernnce call against Green Bay's Williams. 
The Packers drove to the Seattle 7 late in the third quarter. 
But on third and goal, Kennedy sacked Favre, stripped him of the ball and Michael Sinclair picked it up and took it out to the 35 to end the threat. 
From then on, the Seattle defense just kept squeezing and the Packers kept giving up the ball. 

Titans 01aking na01e for the01selves 
Associated Press 

NASHVILLE. Tenn. 
Much of the country is still trying to figure out who the Tennessee Titans are. 
A quick answer: they're one of only four NFL teams at 6-1, and they int1rnd to make the Super Bowl. 
"We're going to take it one day at a time, and hopefully we'll be at our destination," said safety Blaine Bishop. "That's 242 miles up the road in Atlanta." 
A quick lesson in geography -Atlanta now is down the road from l\fusic City, home of the former Oilers since 1997, not up the interstate from Houston where the franchise failed to get past the AFC Championship game in its only two tries. 
The Titans do know one thing for sure after their 24-21 win Sunday over St. Louis knocked the Rams from the unbeaten ranks. 
lf they keep winning, they have as good a shot as anyone in the AFC to reach the Super Bowl. 
"We 're a good team now." said linebacker Barron Wortham. "We want to be one of the great teams." 
The Titans have plenty of room for improvement. Five of their six victories this season have been by a combined 11 points, and six games were decided in the final minutes. 
Their rushing game contin­ues to lag at the bottom of the NFL despite Pro Bowler Eddie George at running back, and they are giving up more yards 
(334.1) per game than they gain (325.7) on offense. 
They are winning, though, and that grabs attention in the NFL. 
"When you win, you get respect in this league," said cornerback Denard Walker. "That's how people start to know you." 
For people needing to update their information on thf) for­mer Oilers, here's some advice. Porget the jokes about empty sAats in Tennessee. 
The team that had the NFL's worst attendance the past two years had a franchise-record 66,415 in attendance Sunday. 
And, the remaining four games this season already are considcn>.d sellouts in the new Adelphia Coliseum, tho team's fourth stadium in four years. 
And while people might think the uniforms came from the defunct USFL, remember that the Titans like the jerseys with the Columbia blue stripe across the shoulders. 
"Our guys think that most people are still making fun of the uniforms around the coun­try," coach Jeff Fisher said Monday. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. co 3 p.m. ac che Nocre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m, All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right co edic , all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Loving ND-SMC couple wishes to  ND Students: Need a new car?  FOR SALE  Tutor needed for 8th and 10th  
NOTICES  adopt.Will provide a lifetime of laughter.love.devotion and opportu­nities.  Convince us (in 500 words or less) that you're the one who deserves ii. And we'll send you a brand new  FOR SALE  N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS CALL 271-9412  grade students for general help, room and board free. Non-smoking.  
THE COPY SHOP  800-484-4699 code 0019  Volkswagen Beetle!  ELTON JOHN TICKETS  Call Lawrence (616) 684-8877  
Lafortune Student Center  Check us out at WinnlngLetter.com  Spring Break Specials!Bahamas  272-7233 GOOD SEATS ......  
PHONE 631-COPY  To our 4am inquirer: all info kept in  Party Cruise 5 Days $2791 Includes  
www.CopyShopND.com  total confidence.Please call back  Meals!  NEED BCTIX.  Hey Brooke. Sorry you had such a  
Store Hours Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight  anytime.Our prayers are with you.  FOR RENT  Awesome Beaches,Nightlife!Cancun &  CALL MARY AT 219-257-1141.  bad time on Saturday night. Hope you are having a better week this  
Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm  EASY MONEY  Jamaica 7 Nights From $399!  week.  
Sat: Noon-6:00pm  Looking for BABYSITTER for twin  Florida  
Sun: Noon-Midnight  first graders. Every Monday and Tuesday, 3-5:15 pm. Must have  ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  $129!springbreaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386  PERSONAL  
....  WANT TO LEARN ABOUT THE LAW? ND Law School  car . Call 273-3083  ND-SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  FOR SALE  High-Speed Copies,  Beth, you were complaining that you are getting no love in the clas­ 
needs volunteers to be Jurors  243-0658.  N.D. FOOTBALL TIX  Color Copies, Binding,  sifieds any more. So here is some  
in mock trials on Dec. 4 & 5.  Free One Bedroom Apartment near  CALL 271-9412  Fax Service, R;,,sum;,,s,  Observer classified lovin'.  
Staff, faculty and students are  Campus  Business Cards, Laminating,  
welcome. Please call Gloria  FOR SALE  & a whole lot more  
Krull at 631-6860 to sign up.  A 1amily with three children seeks  THAT PRETTY PLACE,  N.D. FOOTBALL TIX  at  
fun.energetic student or graduate to  Bed and Breakfast Inn has space  CALL 271·9412  THE COPY SHOP  Hey Sarah, watch out for the cops  
live in charming apartment for  available for lootball/parent wknds.  LaFortune Student Center  the next time you are dancing  
LOST & FOUND  FREE in exchange for mutually agreeable babysitting responsibili·  5 Rooms with private baths, $80· $115, Middlebury, 30 miles from  Phone Cards 669min. $20 243-9361 or 258-4805  Phone 631-COPY Free Pick-Up & Delivery!  around with containers. Hope your Mck feels better  
- ties.Fax name.phone # and brief note describing experience and  campus. Toll Road Exit #107, 1­800·418-9487.  
Lost: earring, silver and amathyst,  interests to Walker at 233--2308.  SONY 6 DISC CD PLAYER  
sentimental value. Oct. 13 between  remote, tuner. works well  Spring Break 2000 Free Trips &  Julia I am glad you didn't crash my  
DeBartolo, stadium parking lot, and  asking $75 B/0 John •1684  Meals.  truck.  
Decio, 233-8672  WANTED: DRUMMER  HOUSES HOUSES HOUSES  Jamaica,Cancun,Bahamas,Barbad  
& BASSIST  os,Florida,Padre.Book now for Free  
DOMUS PROPERTIES HAVE  Meals & 2 Free Trips.Book before  
NOTRE DAME SHENANIGANS  AVAILABLE 5,6,7,8 & 10-BDRM  Dec. 17 tor LOWER PRICES!!  ORENCHUKI!!  
WANTED  SHOW CHOIR is looking for a  HOUSES FOR THE  TICKETS  1800-426-771 0  
drummer & bassist to perform for X·  '00-01 SCHOOL YEAR. ONLY 15  www.sunsplashtours.com  
mas concert.No experience nee- LEFT, CALL  
Now hiring tor evenings  cessary_Must attend 3 dates,  274-1501 OR 234-2436, ASK FOR  WANTED NOTRE DAME FOOT­ I like salsa. Salsa is good stuff.  
and weekends.  including evenings of Dec 6  KRAMER FOR SHOWING.  BALL TICKETS  
and7.Equipment can be  271-1526  Funky GOURDS  
MOLLY MCGUIRE'S COFFEE  provided.Wages negotiable.Call  
HOUSE  office @ 1-5896 or Bryan @4-3044.  SELL & BUY GA FOOTBALL TICK- Three for a dollar!!  Chas... well whats there really to  
287·6966 Karen  WALK TO SCHOOL http://mmmrentals.homepage.com  ETS 277-6619  Fun imaginative shapes ...  say about Chas. He plays the gui­tar.  
232-2595 or  
NOTRE DAME SHENANIGANS  mmm.rentals@aol.com  FOR SALE  
SHOW CHOIR is also DESPERAT·  BC & EL TON JOHN tix.  
""'ACT NOW!CALL FOR THE BEST SPRING BREAK PRICES!SOUTH PADRE.CAN­ LY seeking a male performer to complete its ensemble for X-mas concert.No experience necessary.6  Two roommates/ hot chicks wanted for 8 bedroom house next year. Call  Best Prices AM -232-2378 PM • 286-2726  STUDENT WORK Vector Marketing Corp. ls now fill­ing pit cust. sales & service posi- Hey spider woman. Do that thing with your arms if you are reading this.  
CUN,JAMAICA,BAHAMAS,ACA·  week commitment, wl 2nd semester  4511 for info. Dorks welcome!!  lions. Flex. around class.  
PULCO,FLORIDA & MARDI  membership opinial. Rehearsals  Transfers avail. over breaks.  
GRAS.REPS NEEDED, ..TRAVEL FREE.EARN $$$.DISCOUNTS FOR 6+. 800-838-8203 WWW .LE1SURETOURS.COM  occur Weds 9:30-11 PM & Suns 3­6PM.Must also commit to evenings of Dec 6 &. 7.A great way to meet girls.Call office @ 1-5896 or Bryan @4-3044.  4-6 studeflt rental houses. Lots of extras. Huge Party Room. Washer/Dryer, etc. Dave 291-2209.  ND Football till. BOUGHT & SOLD AM · 232-2378 PM -286-2726  $10.55 base-appt. Good resume exp. scholarships awarded, cond. apply. call men-wed 12:30-5:30pm 282-2357  2 a.m ... not too bad. word to yo mutter  

;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~~~~=::::::::;;;;;;;=====~=-----~---, 
l I 

Tuesday, November 2, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Cleveland hires Manuel as manager 

Associat~d Press 
CLEVEIJ\ND 

As a hilling instruclor, Charlie Manuel 111\lpNl the C:l<•vdand Indians score m1irc runs than any other l!lam iu llrn last half"­cent ury. 
Now tlw club wants him to be tho ma1rngnr who brings Clnvnlancl ils first World Serios litln sincH I1J48. 
T!w lndiuns birnd Manuel as llHHmgor on Tuosday, ending a soarch that took gmrnral manag­nr John llart outsid<• llw Cl1\veland organizatiou but wound up hack at tlrn Indians' dugoul. 
Mamwl has never managed in tho major leagwis l.Jut is 1t player favnritn in Clnvcland and has worked for LhP l1L..;t six y,~ars as tlw Indians hitting instructor. 
Under his guidance, the Cleveland lineup produced 1,009 runs last sl'ason, morf' Umn any t(\Ulll si11co the Boston llnd Sox scored 1,027 in 1950. 
Manuel's fornwr boss. Mike llargrovn, was l'irnd after th~ Indians collapsed in thn l'irst round of' the AL playoffs against Boston. Clnveland wnnt up 2-0 in the snriHs but lost the noxt thrmi ganrns. giving up 44 runs along tlw way. 
That loss was tho lalBst playoff frustration for a tnam that has won five straight i\L Central titlns a11d two league p1mnants but still hasn't won the World Smies. 
When I fart fired I largrove, he talked about finding a manager who could take tlw Indians to the next level -that elusive World Series title. Manuel made it dnar he knows what the goal is. 
"The only way we'rn going to get national rncognition, I know, is to win a World Series," Manud said. "Believe me. I'm starting to work for October. 1 want it to go down to the end of Ot:lol.Jcr." 
llart also promised to find a "new voice and new energy" in llw clubhouse and in the past two weeks Im interviewed for­mc r Cuus manager Jim Higglenrnn, former Toronto manager Cito Gaston and Yankoos hitting coach Chris Chambliss. 
But Hart said his familiarity and respect for Manuel out­weighed the crndentials of the other candidates, including (,aslon's World Series Litlos with the Blue .Jays. 
··1t's basml on the f'act that we know him -there arc no gray areas,'' Hart said. "CharliP.'s going to bring a new atmos­phnre and a now environment into tlw clubhouse with his day­tu-day rnlationships with the players." 
Mamrnl has great rapport with many of the Indians, who have rnlied on him for hitting advice. I le often has worked with play­Prs before games, tossing balls thev hit into a net. All the while he '1ias kept them loose with wisecracks in his West Virginian 
drawl. 
Before joining the Indians' staff in 1993, Manuel managed the club's Triplu-/\ affiliates in Colorado Springs and Charlotte. In '92, he led Colorado to the Pacific Coast League title and was honored as the league's manager ol' the year. 
The next year, he took Charlotte to an International League title and began forming a strong relationship with such young future stars as Manny Hamirez and Jim Thome. 
Thome skipped a hunting trip to sit in on the news conference announcing Manuel's promo­tion. 
"He's fun, he's electric and !m's knowledgeable," Thome said. "Charlie has a lot of energy and as a player you just love that. lie is a joy to be around." 
:vtanuel played 19 ynars in the minors. majors and in Japan. He spent three seasons with the Minnesota Twins (1969-71) and parts of two years (1974 and '75) with the Dodgers. Ile then went to Japan where he starred for the Yakult Swallows and Kintetsu Buffaloes from 1976-81. 
Ile hit 192 homers during his time in Japan, connecting for 48 in 1980. After hitting .324 with 37 homers and 97 HB!s in 1979, he was named MVP, the first A1mirican to receive the honor. 
BUAD 349: International May 23 -June 14, 2000 
INFORMATIONAL MERING 
for Saint Marv's and Notre Dame students 
November 3, 1999 Room 233 Madeleva Hall 4:00P.DI. 
contact: Susan Vance 219/284-4501svance@salntmarvs.edu 
The Depanmenl of Business 111m1n1suat1on and lconomics 

Cubs land Baylor for manager 
could have had a handshake
Associated Press 

deal" after their first inter­view, but he had to wait untilCHICAGO 
thn Braves were done withThe Milwaukee Brewers 
the postseason.
wanted him. The Anaheim 

The morning after the
Angels and the Cleveland Braves wore swept by the

Indians were interested, too. 

New York Yankoes, Baylor'sThe team IJon Baylor really 
first phone call was fromwanted to manage was the 
Lynch.
Chicago Cubs. 

"Andy and Ed were relent­
"There's not that many 

less in their persistence.... I
times you're going to have knew from that (morning

the chance to manage a f'ran­phone call) it was going to becbise with great tradition like a good working relationship if

thf' Chicago Cubs." Baylor 

we could just get the logistics
said Monday after he was 

worked out," Baylor said.
introduced as the Cubs' new Baylor's deal is said to be

managel'. "It grabbed me 

worth $5.2 million for fourright away because I really years.
never envi­

Baylor
sioned manag­, ., . l . (.)clJ , , 1:, ,., i'.I • ing this team. · 1'There's not that many inherits a 
team that
They're not times you're going to 

went fromthat many guys 
have a chance to manage the 1998
that they ask 

that." a franchise with great NL wild 
card to
The Atlanta tradition like the 

last in the
Braves hitting 

Chicago Cubs. " N L
coach roplaces 

Central.
Jim Riggleman, 

Despite a
who was fired Don Baylor 

$60 mil­last month. 
new Cubs manager 

lion pay-
Baylor is the Cubs' 46th manager and the first black to lead the team. 
Baylor, who managed Colorado from 1993-98 and led the Hockies to their only postseason berth, was men­tioned for virtually every opening in baseball. He also had an offer from the Milwaukee Brewers, but he was the Cubs' choice all along. 
Cubs Hall of Farner Billy Williams and Minnesota Twins third-base coach Ron Gardenhire also were inter­viewed by the Cubs. 
"We got some really glow­ing reports," said Cubs presi­dent Andy MacPhail, whose relationship with Baylor dates to the 1987 Minnesota Twins, who won the World Series with Baylor as a player and MacPhail as general manag­er. "The scouting reports we were getting were just out­standing." 
Baylor said he and general manager Ed Lynch "probably 

roll, the 
Cubs went 67-95 in 1999, third-worst in baseball ahead of only the Florida Marlins (64-98) and Minnesota Twins (63-97). 
And history isn't on Chicago's side, either. The Cubs haven't won a World Series since 1908 and have made the playoffs only three times since 1945, their last World Series appearance. 
Since 1945, the Cubs have had only 15 seasons at .500 or better. 
But Baylor said he thinks the Cubs can win. Though he hasn't been told what type of players the Cubs will go after, he's certain the team will be competitive. 
"Once you start talking about winning, guys start believing in what you want to do and make it happen," said Baylor, who wore the World Series championship and AL MVP rings he won as a play­er. 
"It's going to be a chal­lenge," he added. "There are Cubs fans all over the world. Just think if we ever won. I want to he a part of that.'' 
Baylor, 50, spent 19 years in the majors as a player, playing for six di f'f'ere nt teams. Ile was the AL MVP in 1979, hitting .296 with :Hi home runs for the California Angels. He also led the AL with 139 HBls and 120 runs that year. 
He made three straight trips to the World Series from 1986-88, winning the Fall Classic with thn Twins in 
1987. 
Baylor is one of 10 players to hit at least 250 home runs and steal 250 bases. lie also holds the major league rncord for being hit hy the most pitches (267). 
After stints as the hitting coach l'or the Milwaukee Brewers and St. Louis Cardinals, Baylor was hired as the first manager for thu expansion Rockies. The Rockies won 67 games in 1993 then tlrn most for a first-'year NL team. They earned the NL wild-card play­off berth in 1995, the quick­est any expansion team has made it to the postseason. 
The Rockies also had two batting champions (Andres Galarraga, 1993; Larry Walker, 1998) under Baylor. 
Baylor was fired after the Rockies went 77-85 in 1998, their first losing season in four years. He had a 440-469 record in his six seasons in Colorado. 
Baylor then went to the Braves, where he's credited with turning Chipper Jones into a near-certain MVP. Jones batted a career-high .319 and also had career highs in home runs (45), walks (126) and stolen bases (25). 
Baylor's hiring increases the number of minority man­agers. He joins Felipe Alou of the Montreal Expos, Dusty Baker of the San Francisco Giants and Jerry Manuel of the Chicago White Sox. 
Baseball has been criticized by some for not hiring more minority executives. 
Stoneman named new Angels GM 
Associated Press 

ANAHEIM, Calif. 
Former Montreal Expos executive Bill Stoneman knows he has a huge job ahead as the new general manager of the Anaheim Angels. 
'Tm excited about the chal­lenges that lie ahead," Stoneman said at a news con­ference today, one day after his hiring was announced. "I've come from an organization that, while it had certain limi­tations, also excelled in the development of individuals into quality major league players. 
"There is a lot of talent with­in this organization. We will strive to put last season behind us and combine our focus and efforts on becoming a perenni­ally contending club." 
Tony Tavarns, the president of the Disney subsidiary that runs the Angels, described 
.. 

Stoneman as capable and tal­ented. 
"Bill has some specific philosophies in terms of player development that proved suc­cessful with the Expos," Tavares said. 
Stoneman's l'irst order of business will be to hire a man­ager. 
The Angels have been with­out a manager since Terry Collins resigned Sept. 3 and bench coach JoP-Madelon took over on an interim basis. 
Bill Bavasi resigned as gener­al manager Oct. 1 al'ter holding the job for nearly six years. Two days later. tlrn team fin­ished a disappointing 70-92 season, last in the AL Wnst. 
Stoneman, most recnntly Montreal's vicn president of baseball operations, has worked primarily as the Expos' chief financial officer since 1983. 
'' 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, November 2, 1999 

INTERHALL FOOTBALL PLAYOFFS 
Badin's upset bid falls short 
By JASON 
KROMPINGER 
Spores Writer 
After eight minutes of play Sunday at McGlinn Field, it looked like Badin was poised to knock off Welsh and move on in the playoffs. 
But in the second half. Welsh brought out a potent aerial attack and put up 24 unanswered points, cruising to a 24-8 vic­tory. 
"We were able to recover from our first­half mental mistakes and make some key adjustments for the second half." said co­captain Katie Rak. "We played with a lot more confidence once we started moving the ball." 
At the start of the game. the Bullfrog's defense looked unstop­pable as they racked up five sacks on Welsh's first two pos­sessions. 
After Welsh punted following their first drive. Badin's offense 

... 
took all four downs to pick up a first and move to the Welsh 20­y a rd line. The very next play, Badin quar­terback Priscilla Clements unleashed a bomb which was caught in the back of the end zone for 

.. 

much time left"' Hak said. 
following a Badin punt, Welsh was promptly intercepted, and it seemed Badin was poised to retake control of' the game. But on the first play, Clements was picked off. Two plays later. Welsh stuck again, scoring on another bomb to Lett to take an 18-8 lead. They later tacked another touchdown in the game's closing sec­onds on a pass to Lichon. 
"Right now we have made a commitment to practice every day of the week," Rak said. "We know that [Breen­Phillips] is undefeated and to take them out would be huge." 


Badin 's first score. 
Badin's next score camfl after a Welsh player intercepted one of Clements' passes at her own 1-yard line. Following an incom­pletion, the Whirlwind tried a quarterback keeper to the outside which was stuffed in the end zone by Badin's swarming defense. The safety gave the Bullfrogs two points, the ball and the momentum they need­ed. 
But the pendulum started to swing the other way at the end of the first half when a Badin pass was picked off and returned to the Welsh 20. From there, Welsh took the ball downfield with a cou­ple of long connections 
~-o f\-Lyons 
to Vanessa Lichon and Sarah Lett. Lett scored on Welsh's third first down of the drive, and Welsh narrowed the gap to 8-6 as the half dosed. 
At the start of the second half, the teams traded punts. Welsh's next possession start­ed out with an incom­pletion and the sixth sack of the day for the Badin defense. On third down, Lett hauled in a long com­pletion for the first down. 
A rare end-around got Welsh its second touchdown on the next play, as it broke ahead 12-8. 
"At that point we just kind of looked at each other and said 'Let's go there isn't 

Call 4-4023 

By STEVE KEPPEL 
Sports Writer 

Howard looked like it might continue the weekend of upsets but it was unable to endure, dropping the game 19-7 to Pasquerilla East. 
The overmatched Ducks got an added spark to their offense with the return of injured quarterback, Jill Veselik. Although she played well, it did not prove to be enough as the Ducks battled the Pyros to a 19-7 defeat that dashed their hopes of an upset victory. 
On a weekend that was high­lighted by the spirited play of underdogs. this game at first seemed like an upset in the making. The Howard defense came out fired up as they forced the mighty PE offense to go three and out on the first possession of the game. 
"Our defense was focused on not letting [quarterback Elizabeth] Plummer run the ball," Coach Nate Medland said. 
On the next series, the Ducks offense drove down the field Jed by the running and passing of Veselik, who looked confi­dent iu her first appearance in three games. 
The drive was capped off with a 10-yard touchdown pass Plummer said. "We were never in this position before so we wanted to see how we would respond." 
Respond is exactly what they did. The next drive Plummer lead the Pyros straight down the field with her precision passing and some excellent catches by her receivers. The drive ended with Plummer tying the game on a third-and­goal touchdown pass to receiv­er Kerry Hanley. 
The Ducks momentum dwin­dled. 
The PE defense, not to be outdone by the offense, stepped it up and held the Ducks scoreless for the rest of the afternoon. 
The Howard defense also played well, holding Plummer's scrambling in check for most of the day until she broke up the middle for a 44-yard back­breaking score before the end of the half. 
With only a six-point lead, the heavily favored Pyros came out with a vengeance in the second half scoring on their first drive and putting the game out of reach, with the score 19-7. 
"The game was a lot closer than the score. they played us tough," Plummer said. 
"By focusing on not letting Plummer run, we ha<l to cover their receivers one on one with 

to wide receiver Julie our corners and their receivers 
Wernick. After the extra point, were just better," Howard Howard had a seven point coach Medland stated. lead. 
for a chance to win a 
Howard ended the year 3-4
$25 gift certificate to Meijer 

PE was trailing for the first but the team wonders how time all season and after being things would have differed if shut down in its first series on Veselik played all year. offense it was uncertain how "If she hadn't gotten hurt we 
they would react. 
probably would have won a "We dropped two or three few more gamfls and wouldn't
HELP THE RECYCLIN' !RISH SOLVE A MARKETING RESEARCH PROBLEM 

passes in the first series but we have ended up playing PE in arc a veteran team so it did not the first round," Medland make us too nervous," added . 
.. 
I I 
I' 

Tuesday, November 2, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
NFL leading rusher Payton dies at 45 frolll liver disease 


Monday, November 15 8pm Moreau Center/O'Laughlin Auditorium Saint Mary's College 
Tickets: $5 adults, $3 students and seniors On sale at the LaFortune and Saint Mary's Box Office 
Sponsored by the N anovic Institute for European Studies, University of Notre Dame 

have lost a great man."
Associated Press 

Payton drew immediate com­parisons to Gale Sayers, the Bears Hall of Famer who
CHICAGO 
retired in 1971. nut Payton
Aggressive and relentless on 
steadfastly rejected the com­
the field, playful and selfless off 
parison, saying 'Tm no Gale
!.L Walter P.~yton was, simply, 
Sayers."
Sweetness. 

In 1977, just his third year inPayton, the Nl-i'L's greatest the NFL, Payton won the lirst of
rusher, died Monday of' bilfi 
two MVP awards with the most
duct cancer that was discov­
productive season of his car,~er. 
ered earlier this year during his He rushed for 1,852 yards andtreatment for a rare liver dis­
14 touchdowns, both career
Pase. He was 45. 

highs. His 5.5 yards per carry
"He was the best football 
also was the best of his career.
player I've ever seen. And After carrying mediocre
probably one of the best people Chicago teams for most of hisI've ever met," said Mike Ditka, 
career, Payton saw the Bearswho coached Payton for six 
finally make it to the Super
years and one Super Bowl 
Bowl in 1985. Payton rushedchampionship for the Chicago for 1,551 yards and nine touch­Bears. 
downs as the Bears went 15-1
Payton rushed for 16,726 
in the regular season, and alsoyards in his 13-year career, one caught 49 passes for 483 yards
or sport's most awnsomc 
receiving and two TDs.
records. 

Chicago beat Nnw EnglandAnd Barrv Sanders ensured it 46-10 in the Super Bowl, butwould be· one of the most 
Payton didn't score in theenduring. retiring in July 
game.
despite being just 1,458 yards Payton was widely admiredshy of breaking the mark. 
by his teammates as much for"I want to set the record so his humor and kindnesses offhigh that the next person who 
the field as for his athletic
tries for it, it's going to bust his 
skills.
heart," Payton once said. 

"It was his duty to bring
Payton disclosed in Pebruary humor and light in any situa­that he was suffering from pri­
tion," Singletary said. "The 
mary sclerosing cholangitis and 
Bears had had some tough
needed a liver transplant. 

years, and Walter was alwaysHis physician, Dr. Greg Gores 
the guy who, no matter how
of the Mayo Clinic, said Payton 
tough il was, would alwayswas subsequently diagnosed 
make you feel great about play­with cancer of the bile duct, a ing the game and playing forvessel that carries digestive flu­
the Bears."
ids from the liver to the small When he disclosed his liverintestine. 
disease at an emotional news
"The malignancy was very conference in February, the
advanced and progressed very Hall of Farner looked gaunt andrapidly," Gores said at a news frail. a shadow of the man whoconference. Because the cancer 
gained more yards than any
had spread so rapidly outside running back in the history ofhis liver, a transplant "was no 
the NFL.
longer tenable," the doctor 
"Am I scared'! Hell yeah, I'msaid. 
scared. Wouldn't you be
Gores declined to say when scared?" he asked. "But it's notthe cancer was diagnosed. 
in my hands anymore. It's in"Walter was the kind of indi­
Cod's hands." 
vidual who refused to think, Payton made few public'Why me, why now?' lie just appearances after that and hiscontinued to look forward," 
son, Jarrett, who plays f'or thesaid Mike Singletary, his team­University of Miami, was calledmato from 1981-87 and a close home Wednesday night. 
friend. 

"Prom the day in FebruaryEven in his final days, 
when my dad told the world ofSingletary said Payton never his liver disease, the outpouring talked about dying. 
of love, support and prayers
"He had dealt with that, but 
from around the world
he didn't want to talk about astounded even him," Jarrett
that," he said. _.....
Payton said, holding back tearsPayton was widely celebrated 
as he read a statement at the
in Chfr:ago, the city's highest­
Bears' headquarters in Lake
profile athlete in the years after 
Forest, Ill.
Cubs' Hall of Farner Ernie 
Even as he was dying, Payton Banks retired and before Bulls' continued to play pranks on his
superstar Michael Jordan 
friends. Last week, he purposn­emerged. 
ly sent forrnnr Bears running"Walter was a Chicago icon 
back Matt Suhey to wronglong before I arrived there," 
addresses on a trip to
Jordan said in a statement. "Ile 
Singletary's house, and then 
was a great man off the lield, had him hide a hamburger and
and his on-the-field accom­
a malt in Singletary's garage.
plishments speak for them­
Payton retired atter the 1987selves. I spent a lot of time with season, and the Bears immedi­Walter, and I truly feel that we ately retired No. 34. 

TONIGHT! 
BIG EAST Championship Quarterfinal 

-
"W"omen'sSoccer 

vs. 
Miami 


7:30pm 
Free admission to first 300 students 
'I 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, November 2, 1999 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL PLAYOFFS 

No. 2 Siegfried, No. 4 Knott survive upset weekend 
nected with Smith on the out­By KERRY SMITH side to put the Ramblers in 
Sporr, Writer 
scoring position. 
"Our quarterback had an 
With two of the top four outstanding game," Rambler men's interhall teams out of captain Jamie Bordas said. "He contention. rights to play in the changed three or four plays championship game are up for very well that I had called. He grabs. showed a lot of composure and 
With the fall of top-seed maturity on the field and that Alumni and No. 3 Keenan, helped us win." Siegfried and Knotl at the sec­The Ramblers held on to the ond and fourth spots are the 7-0 lead until late in the sec­only two top teams to survive ond half when Pete Aguiar Sunday's semifinal action. kicked the ball through the 
The Siegfried Ramblers took uprights to increase the lead to the field against 10. the Kangaroos T h e
"Our quarterback had an
of Keough and Rambler 
emerged with a outstanding game. ... He defense, 
10-0 decision, showed a lot of whir.h,.,h,as while the given up
composure and maturity
Juggernauts of few points
on the .field and that
Knott kept their all season, heightened play helped us win." put on rolling, holding another top the Dillon Big perfor­
Jamie Bordas
Bed scoreless in mance. The a 10-0 game. Siegfried captain Kangaroos. 
The Ramblers held score­put points on less, were the board early in the game not able to execute their when sophomore quarterback offense successfully, as the Rob Plumby ran the ball into Ramblers shut down their run­the end zone on a 1-yard quar­ning game and stifled their terback sneak. aerial attack. 
Plumby and tailback Travis The Kangaroos' outside run­Smith combined to lead the ning game, which they relied Rambler scoring drive, result­on to move the ball for most of 
ing in a 7-0 edge. Smith ran the regular season failed to the ball efficiently against the produce yards against the Kangaroo defense, continually tough Rambler line, forcing the 

.... finding holes in their defensive Kangaroos into a throwing line formation. game. The key play in the drive "We were able to stop their found the Ramblers faced with outside running game," Bordas a third-and-long situation. said. "They usually like to run 
Plumby, who was four-for-five sweeps but our defense shut on passing in the game, con-them down. And when they were forced to throw we were able to put a lot of pressure on the quarterback and stop their offense in that way too." 
Siegfried will face sixth seed Sorin in the quarterfinal round next weekend on their quest for a championship ti.tie. 
Knott 10, Dillon O 
The Juggernauts attacked early to come up with a win over the Big Red of Dillon Hall. 
On their second possession of the afternoon, the Juggernauts drove the ball down the field using a combined offanse of passing and running, to score a touchdown and the extra point for a 7-0 lead. Juggernaut cap­tai'n a'nd quarterback Mario Suarez connected with Jonathan Smith in the end zone on a short pass for the score. 
•·we used a pretty diverse attack," said Suarez. "We had some trouble running outside, but we made some big passing plays to move the ball down the field and our interior run­ning worked well." 
The Juggernauts struck again with a minute remaining in the half. The Knott offense moved the ball down the field into scoring position before kicking a field goal for insur­ance points bringing the score to 10-0. 

"Our offense moved the ball Joey Gonzalez and Joe Mueller pretty well," said Suarez. "We kept the Big Red offense in kept the ball away from the check. other team and had good ball "Our defense was very 
control.': good.," Suarez said. "There 
Defensively, the Juggernauts was a lot of pressure on their did not allow the Big Red to offense by our defensive lines. gain many yards. Key plays by We didn't allow them to make many big plays." 

The win moves the Juggernauts into the quarterfi­nals against eighth-seed Fisher. Fisher earned its spot in second-round action by upsetting top-seed and previ­ously undefeated Alumni. '. 


e<jetabt
i¾lf 
~ 
-'Rice­
W\tll Siea.',oru119 
121 
~ 
General Mills 

CIIIPIIII 
Come and hear about career opportunities with our Promotion Marketing Group 
Tuesday, November 2, 7:00 p.m. Room 112, CCE 
Come join the Company of Champions! 

Tuesday, November 2, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
Fisher 8, Alumni 0 

On a day of playoff upsets none was bigger than the continued from page 24 eighth-seeded Fisher Green 
Wave's win over the top-seeded saw thnir season flash before Alumni Dawgs. tlwir Pyes as they got the ball Fisher's first drive turned out back for one last gasp posses­to be all it needed as it used a sion. touchdown and an ensuing two­
"Wn knew il wus a do-or-din point conversion to shock previ­situation, and wn just had to gnt ously unbeatcm Alumni, 8-0. it dorw," lk1mrloin said. Poised to show that it 
And gc\t it dorw tlwy did, turn­belonged on the same field as ing in a cornnhack drive that the top s1wd, the Green Wave would makn nvi,11 .John Elway came out with extra intensity. proud. Facod with a third down The Croon Wave used its dcH\P in his own territory, smash-mouth stvlc known as BmH\rl!'in eluded thn onslaught "Fishc~r Ball" to·score on the of KPnnan rnslwrs. bdbrn duck­previously unscorecl upon ing away and !waving the ball in Dawgs' defense. till' direction of his l'avoritn tar­A strong Fisher backlidd tan­gl'l CarnBy, who camn down dem of Zack All1in and Mike with tlw pass 1111 a play tlw cov­Waldo combined to run the ball nrml lhirty-livn yards. down the lfold. Waldo capped a 
Now with tlw hall on the drive that had featured the run Knnnan 20 with lnss than two with a four-yard touchdown. minutns rnrnaining, tlw Otters With Alumni already reeling, onc:P again found thnmsnlvos Fislrnr moved to scmd them into farPd with a third-down sce­a nosedive, faking an extra nario. Bmff'rlei11, while rolling to point before running the ball in his right, hit Canwy for 1(, yards for two to extend their lead to 011 a play worthy of an !•:SPY. eight. Carnny's catch, on what would The Dawgs nevor recovered. provn tlrn ganw's most impor­The Fislwr dc~f'ense did an good tanl play, was nothing short of' job in containing Alumni's star spp1·tacular. 11<' dovn to his ruslrnr Tom Dietrich, who right, snaring the ball just playnd well but never was 
hl'f'on• it hit tlw turf. allowed to make the big play. 
"WP ran a post llag play and Green Wave defnnsivc line­Carrwy said he'd be opon," man Mark AuP.rnick played bril­BPtrnrlein said of' llw catr.h. liantly in sacking Dawgs' quar­"(;r,•g just made a grnat play." terback Matt Anton-Giovanni 
Now with lnss than 30 seconds twice. to µlay, Beuorlein called on his Fisher's ability to establish linP to make one last stand. early momentum was the decid­
"I told them to step it up for ing factor. An inspired defense orrn morn play," the Otter's played its best ball of the sea­senior passer said. son, stymieing the Dawgsa 
Tim line opened up a massive attack time after time. lwln for its signal-caller, allow­"We knew if we could get one ing Bewfflein to sneak through [score!. we'd have a great on a draw play for what would chance,'' Waldo said. "Our Im the game's deciding scorn. del'Hnse is the best in the 
Gn·g Carney ended what little league." chance Keenan had of getting "I thought that if we could back in tlw game when Im score early, we could hold on to picked off a pass from Ke1ma11 win," agreed Fisher coach T.C. quarterback Billy Ellsworth. Kazmierczak. "Our line played 
great and wo ran the ball well." 

Interhall 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL PLAYOFFS 

BP rallies in second half for win 
The Wild Women stood con­ran the ball deep into Chaos
By RACHEL BIBER 

fused as the Babes celebrated territory. But an interception in 
Sports Writer 

six points. while Landaus' nags the end zone by Whitney lay at midfield. Tho ruling by Thompson on an attemptedIt might have taken a while the referees, however, con­pass from Lyons quarterbackfor the Breen-Phillips Babes to 
firmed that the flags were Katy Yanez dashed any hopes of get rolling, but their game heat­released because of a defensive a touchdown. The missed effort 
ed up in the second half en grab to the clothing, and the for six points proved key in route tu a 13-0 shutout over the touchrlown was awarded to the procuring a win for the Chaos. Wild Women of Walsh in 
Babes. The Babes converted "It really was a key play on Sunday·s f'irst-round playoff for an additional point when the goal line," Cavanaugh cap­matchup. Choi connected with Erin West tain Melissa Tacey said. 
No. I seed BP looked sluggish in the end zone, making the The game's only score came in the first half and could not 
score 7-0. in the second half al'ter an inter­piece together a productive BP struck again during its ception by Chaos defensive ol'fensivo drive. Walsh's next possession when Choi com­player Heather lloffman set the 
dcfonse, IPd by Shaunti Althoff pleted a touchdown pass to team up l'or a touchdown. 
and Hebecca Craig, was effec­West, increasing the Babes' Six points ensued when tive in extinguishing any olfon­lead to 13-0, and effectively Heimer connected with receiver s i ve spark that BP displayed, putting the game out of reach Katie Burdick in the end zone. 
keeping a normally potent BP. for l\iVal~h:l 1West attributed the The 6-0 lead was all tho Chaos offense quiet. second half revival of the Babes' needed in securing their first Babes' quarterback Jenny oflense to their coaches. playoff win. Choi could not connect with any "We had a slow start," West Tho ball was exchangedreceivers for the majority of the said. ''We picked it up in the between the offense of each first half and was limited to 
second half because of our team for the remainder of the gaining yards on the run. inspirational coaches." game, but neither side was able "We didn't have a terrible 
Katie Leicht eliminated any to put together any threat ol' first half'," BP coach Kevin chance of a Walsh comeback, scoring. The Lions could onlyShannon said. "But it wasn't with an interception after watch as the Chaos ran the good either." Walsh recovered the ball, and clock out in the linal minute of 
The second half did not look Schuler locked up the win when the game, and walked away dis­to hold much promise for the she picked the ball off for the appointed as their season came Babes when their first offensive second time of the day as the to a close. possession ended in a intercep­last seconds of the game ticked "We were very disappointed,"tion by the Wild Women away. captain Katy Yanez said. "I feel defense. But the ball was relin­The Wild Women were disap­like we played as well as could quished when BP's Jill Schuler pointed as their season game to be expected."intercepted a pass from Walsh's a close, but they put in a high Cavanaugh's defensive per­quarterback Malissa Beiting, class effort. Walsh's defense formance was critical in shut­finally awakening the Babes' was poised throughout the ting down Lyons offense and silenced offense. Schuler's game, and its offense was high­preventing any risk of a Lyons defensive heroics did not do lighted by quarterback Melissa score. The defensive line, led unnoticed by Babes' coach Beiting and receiver Kelly by Meghan Rhatigan and BrigidShannon. Perry. Walsh coach Steve Laird, put in a solid day's work 
"Jill Schuler had a great Dillenburger was satisfied with and were gratified by shutting game on defense," Shannon the play of his team, despite the out their opponent and allowingsaid. 
loss. for a Chaos win. Schuler's key interception not "Everyone is disappointed, "Defensively we played
only fired up the Babes, but it but I'm happy with the way they tremendous," Cavanaugh coach also led to their first score of played," Dillenburger said. "It Matt McCoyd said. "Our defen­the game. BP's ensuing drive 
was a close game, but we just sive line got a lot of pressure on 
featured a huge pass from Choi let it slip away." their quarterbacks." to receiver Kelly Landaus who The defensive effort of the ran the ball in for a touchdown. 
Chaos also stimulated the
Cavanaugh 6, Lyons 0 

o!Tense, causing a better second
Sunday's matchup between 
half performance
the Lions of Lyons Hall and the 
Being a favorite in the play­
Chaos of Cavanaugh was a
"There is a place set for you 

offs has been an unknown role
fierce battle, but the Chaos 
for the Babes in past years, but
snuck out alive, shutting out the 
they were able to f'ullill the role
Lions by a score of 6-0, and 
successfully after the defense
locking up a first round playoff
at this table. 

got the olTense lired up. 
win. 

"OffensivPly we looked timid
Lyons looked on its way to an 
in the first hall'," McCoyd said.
early score when Crissy Scotti 
"ln the second half we played
intercepted a pass from Chaos 
outstanding on both sides of the
quarterback Mandy Heimer and 
ball." 
... 


l-e~a-~(J,H, 
;?~S~
Welcome to the dialogue." 

s~ 
EXPLORING RELIGIOUS LIFE RETREAT 
r
NOVEMBER 12-14 

For information or to register, contact: Sundav, November 1 
S.Joann Plumpe, OP (517) 266-3533 
Adrian Dominican Sisters 

Fischer-O'hara Grace 
Adplumpe@aol.com Communitv Center 
Visit our website: www.dp.org/adrian 

\ 

t page 20 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, November 2, 1999 

Due to circumstances beyond our control, an incorrect recruitment advertisement appeared in the Notre Dame Observer on Wednesday, October 27th. We apologize for the inconvenience. All interested candidates are encouraged to visit our website to learn more about the great career opportunities currently available at Arthur Andersen. 

Right now, there has never been a better time to be part of Arthur Andersen. Creativity and innovation. Enduring personal and professional relationships. The freedom to build and grow. Credentials that are admired and so~~ght out worldwide. Commitment. And great rewards. 
Whether you're interested in Assurance and Business Advisory Services, Business Consulting, or Tax and Business Advisory Services, Arthur An de rs e n offers c o u n t Ies s o p p o rt u n ities for m a k in g o u r w o r Id a p a rt of yo urs. 
ARTHUR ANDERSEN 
Helping In Ways You Never Imagined 
For more information, visit www.arthurandersen.com 
Arthur Andersen LLP is an equal opportunity employer. 


Tuesday, November 2, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
W.Soccer 
continued from page 24 
Waldrum is nsp11r:ially r:on­cPrned with tho rncnnt sub-par pcrf'ormancns by his team lwca11s11 thoy mmind him of' the kV(\) of play the Irish shownd 011 a Texas road trip in Snpttimlwr wlwn th1iy barely b1Htt TPxas A&M and lost to Southern Methodist. 
"It was rnally similar to what happnrrnd to us down in Texas," Waldrum said. "We havn to rcassPss things to makP sure that we don't end up in that position again." 
If' thP Irish am going lo go fur in this year's postseason, they will havn to rHly on their talent­nd snnior playnrs to carry llwm. It was these play1ffs that combined to scon• three goals in the last 10 minutes of the Indiana game to save a Notre Dame victory. 
"Our seniors basically took things ovN at tlrn end when they had to and put things away," Waldrum said, "It's important to have playnrs with that kind of' leadership on the field and its important that tlwy continue it." 
.Jenny Streil'f'nr, Jenny Heft and .Jen Grubb oach scored for the Irish in a !'our-minute span against thP I loosinrs. 
Strciffor has brwn especially hot in recent weeks and is bat­tling to bncomn the second player in NCA;\ history to rm:ord 70 goals and 70 assists in a earner. 
"I think she have kind of l'ound h11r groove for scoring goals. Earlier in the season she was missing some opportuni­tins, "Waldn1rn said. "Now we have made a move to put her 
Got something news worthy? Tell the Observer. 
FIRST-VEAR STUDENTS 

-
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING 
NOVEMBER 4 • 4:00 to 6:30 p.m. 
--··-·-------=..........­
JOHN DAILY/The Observer 
Freshman Ashley Dryer will get her first taste of collegiate postseason play tonight when the Irish take on the 'Canes. 
up front rather than playing in dribble and I think now she is the midfield and I think she is starting to find her rhythm." so dangerous with the ball on Streiffer leads the Irish her foot. She is so individually against the Hurricanes at 7:30 at breaking down people on the tonight on Alumni Field. 

CROSS COUNTRY 
Belles fail to meet goals, finish 7th 
By MOLLY McVOY 
Assistant Sports Editor 

The wealher was beautiful. the excitement was there and the entire Saint Mary's cross wuntry team was healthy. 
The Belles were ready to move up in the standings in the MIAA league champi­onships on Saturday, but found a mediocre finish instead. 
"l think we were disappoint­ed in how we finished as a team." senior Melissa Miller said. "We ended up as a pack really well, so we were happy about that. But, as a pack, we 
I n mish "as up in front as we would have liked." 
Looking to improve on their eighth-place finish at the MIAA Jamboree in September, the Belles finished tied for seventh of nine teams competing in the championships. 
Saint Marv's tied with Defiance College this weekend, a team the Belles had defeated at the Yellow Jacket Invitational -their last con­ference matchup. This, cou­pled with the health of the entire team, gave the Belles high hopes for this weekend's meet. 
"It was good that we beat the one conference team that was [at the Yellow Jacket Invitational]," junior Genevieve Yavello said last week. "That points us in a good direction for the championships. We are really hoping to improve our finishes this weekend [at the championships!." 
Calvin College, however, won the meet and took five of the top six individual spots. Amy Mizzone, from Calvin College, won the meet with a time of 18 minutes, 15 seconds. She was named AII-MIAA first team along with five other Calvin runners. 
The only other school rnpre­sented in the first-team nomi­nations was Hope College, with senior Jenny Ernst being named. She finished third overall in the championships and was the only non-Calvin runner to finish in the top eight spots. 

-
.... 

llopc finished second in thn  
meet behind Calvin with Alma  
College and Kalamazoo Collnge  
coming in third and fourth.  
respectively.  
Yavello came in first for  
Saint Mary's on Saturday, lin­ 
ish ing 60th with a time of  
21 :29. /\l'ter the injury to  
sophomorn Melissa Goss,  
Yavello has been the top run­ 
ner for Saint Mary's.  
''We raced well," Yavello  
said, "but the scores don't  
show that."  
As was the case all season,  
the Belles continued in their  
pack-running style with their  ...  
top five runners finishing with­ 
in 45 seconds of one another.  
Their next goal is to move up  
the entire pack in the race.  
''The pack works together  
and each person looks at the  
person in front of them,"  
Yavello said. "Basically. we  
push each other. When you're  
together with your team, it so  
much easier to pass people.  
When you have a teammate  
running right with you, not  
only does she push you to  
move forward, she reminds  
you why you're racing."  
Overall, Saint Mary's cross  
country team would have liked  
to have finished higher on the  
season, but realize the Belles  
are still a team in the process  
of learning what it means to  
compete in collegiate cross  
country. They arc in their third  
year of existence and hope to  
improve as next season  
approaches.  
"We would have wanted to  
do better overall," Miller said.  
"But, I think everyone should  
be proud of this season. We're  
still a young team, and I think  
everyone should be proud that  
they stuck with it."  
The Belles deal with typical  
problems of a young team.  
They hope to work on recruit­ 
ing, retention and standings in  
the MIM next season.  
"We havnn't all talked about  
lour goals! as a team yet,"  
Miller said. "We, of course,  
want to increase our ranking  
in the MIM. Wo have a lot of'  
girls at tlrn beginning of the  
season. We need to work on  
keeping them."  - 

page 22  The Observer . SPORTS  Tuesday, November 2, 1999  
VOLLEYBALL  CLUB SPORTS  
ND picks up two Big East wins  Water polo wins  

By MATT OLIVA Spons Writer 
Another weekend brought two more conference victories for the Notre Dame volleyball women's team. 
Thr Irish used three games to defeat Boston College on Saturday and then survived a five-game match for a victory against Providence on Sunday. With the two victories, the Irish improve their conference record to a perfect 8-0, while improving to 14-6 overall. 
Christi Girton led the Irish on Saturday against the Eagles, as Notre Dame claimed the victory in three games with scores of 15-2, 15-8, 15-10. Girton totaled 16 kills in the match to lead her Irish teammates. Senior captain Mary Leffers and sophomore Kristi Kreher each contributed to the offense, adding another 13 kills betwenn them. 
The Irish were able to roll through Game 1, but found themselves down 5-8 to Boston College in Game 2. 
"We started out strong in the first game," stated Kreh er. "The only aspect that we struggled with was putting the team away." 
After battling back to even the score at 8, Irish sophomore Marcie Bomhack served five straight points for the Irish to bring the score to 13-8. Notre Dame was able to hold the Eagles scoreless the rest of the way and take Game 2, 15-8. The Irish then took Game 3 to win the match in straight games. 
Julia El-Hag's six kills led Boston College, but the Eagles were outhit 0.366 to 0.020 and outblocked 11-3 by the Irish. Defensively, the Irish were able to shut down the Eagles, leading to their 0.020 hitting average. Kreher and junior Jo Jameyson led the Irish on defense with eight digs apiece, while eight Irish players contributed to the team's blocks total. 
The match against Providence proved to be more difficult for the Irish. Notre Dame survived the five-game match for their eighth conference victory of the season, and in doing so claimed a place in the six-team Big East conference tournament set for 

... 
THE WOMEN'S RESOURCE CENTER 
(!)pen~ 
~Jw,,J q.ko.,,, ./!c;,~ 
'W~,/-1~3

... 
l-7p.•­
Refreshments will be served. Freet-shirts and mugs. Check out our numerous informational resources. 
"I myself have never been able to find out precisely what feminism is: I only know that people call me a feminist whenever I express sentiments that differentiate me from a doonnat ...• -Rebecca West 

Midwest Division 
victor over Penn State, in the first round of the 12 tnam nationals, this weekend. 
. 
The field hockey club, playing beforn a large contin­gr. nt of parents and fans, swept the University of Chicago off Stepan Field with a stunning 10-1 victory. Stephanie Frigon and Mike Lazinski each scored twice, while Laura Antkowiak, Liza Naticchia, JR Doria, Kyle Frigon, Lisa Mohrman and Kristen Sullivan all con­tributed to the balanced scor­ing attack. The Irish complet­ed the fall season 3 -1. 

. 
Missing four of six starters, the men's volleyball team opened the season with a disappointing 2-4 mark at the Michigan State Invitational. Starting three freshmen and two other first­


time  players,  the  team  
dropped matches to  MSU,  
Texas,  Marquette,  and  

Northern Illinois. The team defeated Calvin and Michigan. 
. The men's rowing club participated in the annual Head of the Elk in Elkhart. The strong field included Purdue, Michigan, Michigan State and many other top pro­grams. Best finishes for the Irish were fourth place in the lightweight fours, and fifth place in the open fours, with 26 teams competing. Other very respectable finishes included seventh and eigth place finishes in the open eights and novice eights, respectively. 


Special 10 The Observer 
Highlighting the wenkend's activities was the men's water polo dub winning its first ever Midwest Division Championship. The team qualified for the Nationals at the University of Arizona, in Tucson, another first for the Irish. 
The team opened with a 27­0 victory over Bowling Green, a shutout for reserve goalie John Sample. In the quarterfi­nals, Ohio University fell 16-4, and in the semifinals, the Irish defeated host Miami (Ohio) in a nailbiter. 
Tied 6-6 after regulation, and 7-7 after overtime, the Irish won in the last minute of sudden death, as Matt McNicholas found the back of the net. 
Starter Nick Malone tried to continue playing after slipping on the bulkhead at the start of the third quarter. After play­ing a couple minutes, he was removed from the game. It was later discovered he had a fractured rib and punctured lung. He is doing well and will be released from the hospital Wednesday. 
The finals saw Notre Dame defeat No. 1 seed Dayton, the reigning four-time champion, 8-0. In goal, Brendan Dougherty posted his sixth shutout of the season.
Nov. 19-21 in Pittsburgh. Big East team in l 999 to win a Leading scorer for the team inNotre Dame came back from a game against the Irish, got 26 

the tournament was
2-1 deficit to defeat the Friars kills from Annie Cella and 25 McNicholas with 17, while12-15, 15-10, 8-15, 15-8, 15-12. kills from Sarah Katinger. The Nick Malone and Brian HenchMary Leffers led the Irish in Friars fell to 13-lO overall and each tallied six goals.The teamtheir comeback win with a 5-3 in the Big East with the loss will face Richmond, a division

team-high 18 kills. Denise that snapped their seven-match 
Boylan (53 assists, 10 digs). win streak. 
Kristy Kreher (10 kills, 18 digs) 
and Christi Girton (15 kills, 14 
digs) contributed double-doubles 
to offset Providence's 85 team 
kills. "We realized that we had to start playing our game to win the match," said Kreher. "We didn't panic, going into the match. We knew their outside hitters get a lot of kills, so we knew we had to stop them and get a lot of digs." 
The Friars, who are the first 

Oelf~l"tltj Tiu fl_~t Pizza.I @3©Gl~ Q[b© ©0©©fh 71C!l©~(ilru~99  
Anytime Anytime12~ you call between you call between10 11~2 5:30 & 7:00, 10:30-12:59 9 9 the price of yourI 3 the price of your 8 2 large 1 large 1 topping 76 topping pizzas pizza is the time you call.is the time you call. * Plus tax* Plus tax  
Ir-------------,Lunch Special I I Small 1 Topping I ND store I 2 Cans of Coca-Cola product I Saint Mary's/ I $5.99 I271-1177 North Village MallL-------------.J 271-PAPA  

Tuesday, November 2, 1999 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
t\Lt.l(,t\1" \JO'c. 7.""E l<',.E'i' 7b 
I-IE.LLO, A"'6E~~ "™IS IS 

"'$\J(..C!!SSl=-UL INVr\"~noM 
jOE.. ~ GW$ ~JD ::r. 
',fOV1.,0 L\Kc. To L\>./Vli"I!

OF 1'\IE. Of'f'oS.\TE !iE)(. \S 
'(()1.1,KATE Al.It> E>WEtJ ,O

10 f,\~KE. 11 SY.ORT ~tJO 
W#,il-H I' l'-\OIJlE W\,-~ \)$

S~ET-~\...~ "TOO LO~ MlD 
i\,IJ:;Y'U.. -..iALIC; ML OVER Yov 
Fox TROT 
TOM KEELEY 
BILL AMEND 


JEFF BEAM

A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD 

So, Payne, we have this little team Scramble every few hundred years... 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32 Chemical suffix 1 Italian autos 33 Byway 6 Jack's 37 Sophisticated 
companion, in military plane rhyme 
38 Big expense for 10 Country newspapersbumpkin 
39 Pre-PC 14 Model Everhart counters 15 Conception 40 The two of them 16 Acidic! 
41 N.Y.C. line 17 Aun after a 
42 Stir comic? 
43 "Thriller'' 

19 Litigant 
singer's 20 Long, long time nickname 21 Small amount 45 "This means 22 Natural gas !" 
ingredient 46 Fixes, as a shoe 24 Impaled 49 Driveway 26 In a stall, as a endings 
horse 
53 Tennis star 27 Wide shoe Gibson specification 54 Saharalike 28 Kama 
55 Sight from 29 Maniacs Lucerne 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

56 Take a dogleg, e.g. 57 Hurt a politician's wife? 60 Paradise 61 _ Stanley Gardner 62 Nonnuclear family member 63 Wet, as morning grass 64 Any day now 65 "Beau 
DOWN 1 Confronts 2 _water(up 
the creek) 3 Guam's capital, old-style 4 "_ the season to be jolly" 5 Hothouse 
features 6 Islamic crusade 7 Alter_ (exact 
duplicate) 8 "My Name Is Asher • 9 Newborn's paraphernalia 10 Hurry an 
actress along? 11 Ordinary 12 Designer 
Geoffrey 13 Blew it 18 Canadian 
Indians 

l-;-lt-::-1-:-t-=t-=-player sit out .......,.__._...._R......_,S P E S E the game? 

Puzzle by Stephania Spadaccini 
26 Submerged 42 Hang around for 28 _ Domingo 44 Pub brew 29 Just great 46 Scored 30 Jima 47 Get away from 31 "Dig in!" 48 Throw here and 34 "Red" or "white" there 
tree 49 Verdant 35 Bandage brand 50 Stares 
51 Vote in 
52 Bender 
54 Folk singer 
Guthrie 58 Tijuana gold 59 Crusty one? 
36 Cacophony 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 38 licks off are available by touch-tone phone: 39 Presenter's 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
task Annual subscriptions are available for the 41 Deep freezes, best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 so to speak years: 1-888-7-ACAOSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 


L DE 
DLI 


Ef 

lnterhall Basketball 

(M&W) ....
® 
Grad/Fac/Staff
CoRec Broomball 

Basketball 
RecSports Office 
Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 
1·6100 • http://www.nd.edu/-recsport 
HOROSCOPE 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 1999 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: k.d. lang. Stefanie Powers, Burt Lancaster, Esther Valentine, Keith Emerson 
Happy Birthday: Thi, is a year of change, but before you stMI down that path you must first re-evaluate your past and make the rroper choic­es. You have a lot to otfer, and you must find out where you can do· the most good. Leadership is what you should be searching for. Once in a position to call the shots, vou will find it easy to accomplish. Your numbers: 5, 12, 17, 22, 27, 38 
ARIES (March 21-April 191: A good friend will be upset if you are insensiti\·e to his or her emotional problems. Take the time to help those in need. They're counting 011 you for good, sound advice. 00000 
TAURUS (April 20-M,,y 20): \\,u should take a close look at am· legal documents you haw. Cpdates that you thought were OK may turn out to be wrong. Check your bonds, secu­rities and insurance documents. 00 
GEMi:-,;( (May 21-]une 20): You don't ha,·ce a realistic view of vour personal situation right now. Take three steps back and take an honest look before vou decide to make changes that ,~·ill rock the bo,,t 1,•ith loved ones. 0000 
CANCER (June 21-/uly 22): You'll be confused regarding vour o\\'n beliefs because of the philosophies being pushed on vou by others. You're going through changes that \\'ill lead ,·ou in ne\\' directions. Pro­ceed with.caution. 00 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You \\'ill dazzle people you don't know that well. Your flamboyant. outgoing naturt' will draw attention at group functions. Your need to be in the lime­light will probably cause friction with beam. l@nd.edu 
EUGENIA LAST 

your mate. 000 . VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You'I be facing career changes. It is besl t, move with the times rather than pu · up a fuss. Your new job will give vo, more creati,·e freedom. Make alt,•, ations to your image. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Pull ou those projects that you left unfinislw, some time ago You will have the d,, sire and the fortitude to pick up wherv • you left off. Completing what you slarted will bring you satisfactio11 0000 
SCORl'IO (Oct. 23-Nov. 2ll Elders in your family may need ass,, lance. Don't let them put unreaso11 able den1~1nds on vou. Don't overrt•· act to criticism. Overspending 01· your home '"ill strain your budget 
00 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 211: It's best to put your time and effort­into contributing to organizations tl1c1: ,·ou feel are worthwhile. You wilt attract partners just br being yourself 
00000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 191 Don't take too much for granted at \\'Ork. Promises 1•ou make or receiw are not likely to pan out. Your domes­tic and professional responsibilitie, may conflict. Don't take on too much 
000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You need to get in,·ol,·ed in some creati,·,· work that will allo\\' you to expres; 1·our,elf. Talk to someone who ma, be able to heir, vou get started or gi\:~ you the information you requin• 
000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Th~ situation at home will be downright dismal. Don't let otht>rs cause friction bet\\'een ,•ou and ,·our mate. Stiel-. close and tr\' to a·\'oid those who \\'Ould love to see \'OU argue. 000 
Birthday Baby: You aren't one to sit around and \\'a1t. You're always on the go and eager to discol'er new things. You are out to sal'e the \\'Orld and benefit mankind. You will ne,·er back away from a responsibility, and you will inspire the different people you meet throughout your life. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com. 
..

eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) -(&' J999 Univer;;aJ Press S~·n1.i1..:i1te 


Leapin' Leffers 
Irish senior It1ary Leffers led the Notre Dame volleyball team to two Big East conference wins over the weekend. 
PORTS 
page 23 


O
THE 

page 24 BSERVER Tuesday, November 2, 1999 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL PLAYOFFS 

Upsets dominate first weekend of playoffs 
By KEV1N BERCHOU Sports Writer • 
The Sorin Otters had the right attitude heading into Sunday's playoff showdown with the two­

.... Lime defending league champion Keenan Knights. They knflw thAy could win. And that's exactly what they did, stunning the Knights in a 1 0-7 thriller and snapping their oppo­nents' 18-game unbeaten streak in the process. "We knew we could do it," said Sorin captain Fred Faber, who left the game early with an injury. "Our whole team stepped it up." While it was a team victorv for the Otters -one that ave~ged their defeat at tlrn hands of the Knights in last year's title tilt ­it was the passing tandem of quarterback Luke Beuerlein and wide-out Greg Carney that stole the show. The pair connected countless times as it exploited the chink it found in the Knights' defensive armor.
• The Otters came ou1 of the gates smoking, showing the Knights that a 19th-consecutive game without a loss would not come easily. BeuP-rlein connect­ed with Carney on pass plays covering a total of more than 50 yards on the game's first posses­sion. It took a tremendous effort from the Keenan defense to stop Beuerlein on a fourth-down quarterback draw just inches short of the goal line to keep the game scoreless. 
As the second quarter opened, the Knights were forced into a failed to hold on, squelching his didn't disappoint, drilling a 22-go 18 games without a loss. Now out. punting situation. In a gutsy team's momentum. yard field goal, the first points in on defense, Kevin Carney Kicker John Rossi's successful 
move, Keenan player and coach The Otters capitalized on allowed by the Knights' defense redeemed himself picking off extra point made the score 7-3. Dong Min called for' a fake. Min Keenan's miscue just plays later. all season long. Beuerlein and returning the ball With time running down in the himself then fired a perfect After relying on Greg Carney's After going into the half trail­to the Otter 20. Just six plays game's final quarter, the Otters 
strike in the direction of Knights' 

hands for much of the game, the ing by three, the Knights looked later, Carney gave his team the running back Kevin Carney who team turned to his leg and he to regain the form that saw them lead, scoring from four yards 
see INTERHALL/ page I 9 


WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Postseason begins tonight for No. 6 Notre DaITie, Miami 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Associate Sports Editor 
Tonight's Big East quarterfi­nal match up between the Big Mid-Atlantic Division champi­ons the J-i'ighting Irish and the No. 4 team from the Northeast Division the Hurricanes of Miami appears to be a mis­match. 
The Irish are one of the top teams in the country and most experts expect them to be deep into the NCAA tournament. The Hurricanes, on the other hand, are unranked and sur­
prised many people by secur­ing a bid in the Big East tour­nament in their first year of conference play. 
Big East
These factors Quarterfinals coupled 
No. 6 Notre Dame
with a 7-1 Irish victo-vs. ry just a 
Miami 
week ago 
Alumni Field
should point to 7:30 p.m. yet anoth­er Big East victory for the Irish. 
But Ir~h head coach Handy Waldrum is not taking a victory for granted. Despite defeating the Wisconsin Badgers 9-2 and the Indiana Hoosiers 4-1 in their last two games, the Irish gave up cheap goals in both games. Waldrum has stressed to his team the need to put mental mistakes behind them as the stakes get higher in the playoffs. 
"If we give away a silly goal early we are at a point in the season now where teams are not playing to develop," Waldrum said. "And if we get behind early, teams are going to pack it in front of the goal and make it very difficult to score. So we have to jump out and get on top of them early and put the game away early." 

The Irish jumped out and put the game away early in their last game with the Hurricanes by building a 4-0 halftime lead. Waldrum hopes that his team can get out to a similar lead tonight. 
The Irish are basically assured of a bid in the NCAA tournament no matter how they do in the Big East tourna­ment. But unless Notre Dame wins the tournament, it will probably not get one of the top four seeds, host NCAA tourna­ment games through the quar­terfinals. 
The Irish have to treat every game like it is a do-or-die situ­ation, according to Waldrum. 
"I think one of the things we have to do is to get the players to understand and realize that it is a one game situation and a playoff atmosphere," he said. "We can't make mistakes and have another day to play. I think we have tried to stress to them to finish out winning the rest of the this week so we can get a top seed." 
see W. SOCCER/page 21 

-
vs. Miami at Seton Hall, vs. Qatar, at Tennessee, Big East quanerfinals . 
Wednesday, 1 p.m. Friday, 7:30 p.m. Sacurday, 7:30 p.rn . 
SPORTS ~ 'i, t-
Today, 7:30 p.m. ATA Volleyball 

Volleyhall at Nebraska-Omaha, 
MIM Championships vs. Ohio All-Stars, ~ vs. Kalamazoo vs. Illinois Stare, ~ Friday, 8:05 p.m. Sunday, 7:30 p.m. 
GLANCE Wednesday, 8 p.m.
Today, 7 p.m. 
• 









