Erin Go Bragfi 
Phil speaks otAt 
Tuesday 
¦ Check out what's cool abour St. Patrick's 
¦ Phil Donahue addresses the Board of Trustees 
about the non-discrimination clause refusaL
Day and how ro cook authentic Irish food. 
MARCH 16, 
Scene• 12-13 
Viewpoint • 11 
1999 

THE 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 104 WWW. ND.EDU/~OBSERVER 
Student Activities cracks down ~n illegal postings 
By FINN PRESSLY StudPnl .'\!Tairs al'tPr a second viola­Thn PSA was also infornrnd that it Croups wishing to post information Assi,1.1nt N"w' Ediwr tion. was among three oilier groups 11ml. must first prnsont copiP.s of' their matn­For lhn l'SA. which has ol'tnn rclind wern suspended. though officials al rial to Studrnt Activities for approval. 
Th11 offit:(' ol' Student Activities on post1\rs and l'ly11rs l"or advnrtisr­Studl'nt Activities and the Club Thny ani issued a "pull date" stamp r<>rnntly prnhibill'd llll' l'rog-rnssivn rnunt. tlw suspnnsion will bu dil'licult to Coordination Council refusnd lo n•lnasr and are rnquirnd to sign a contract Sturll'nt. '\lliancP (I'S/\) from posting OVPrt:01111'. t h <~ stating that their group will abide by advPrtis111111•11ts 011 campus. raising "Basically, names ol' campus posting rules. q1wslions nho11I tlw Univf'rsity's policy wn can't.,..----------, the othor "Departmnnts both acad(rn1ic and on postPcl advPrtisl'mPnts. advPrtisP 
'O'SHAUGHNESSY [HALL] IS, organiza­administrativo arr not rnquirnd to have 
"Wn'rp suspPrHIPd lwcausn our any of our tions. a stamp," said Cassidy, adding that
IN MY EYES, ACTUALLY .
postPrs W!'l'I' posl('d ut plac1•s o(hp1• nvrn1 ts,'" Sil id .I () (l thny am also hound to the sanrn lhan Uni\Prsity-approvc<I bullf'!in Orr. ENHANCED ... BY THE ARRAY OF Cassidy. rnquirnnrnnts as student organizations. hoards," said I'S/\ nwmlrnr Maclolyn A r t I' r d ir 11 c I o r From tlrnre, it is llrn n'sponsibility of
POSTERS. ONE HAS THE SF.NSE OF 
Orr. "!\nyonn who walks through rn1·.1•iving its o r thn managers of' each building to O'Sh,ll.~gli1wssy can sen that that's ludi­suspension. INTELLECTUAL VIBRANCY.' Sludonl rnporl offnnders to Student Activities, crous. thn PS!\ Adivili<'S. Cassidy nxplairrnd. After their first vio­
"S11111P 1111·11ilH'rs ol' tl11• J'S!\ postBd quicklj said that 1 a tion. organizations are issued a Mll!/K ROUU:' l h " 
stuff on llll' lampposts oulsidP, which is app1•a IPd tlw warning, followed by a suspension ill1,gal," said Orr. "Af'tcr that, wn madn d1icisio11. !JHAN OF Col.l.EGH OF Am:~· AN/) lt:TT/:,'f/S I' C c p 11 I upon their second violation. it a poi11t tn only post postPrs wlwn; w crack­"Some student groups complain that ttwrn w1!rn otlrnr postPrs." appP,tlnd to down is enforcement is arbitrary. and, -yeah, it IJPspil11 tlwir pn~cautions. Liu, l'SA Studrnt Activitirs. and they said no." not llrn resull of new initiatives nor is,'' said Cassidy. "Enforcnment comris was sus1wnd1•d from posting advnrlise­Orr c1xplaincd. "The p1inplc you appeal targeted at specific organizations. out of whoevnr manages thn facility." nwnts through tlw nrHI of the smncstnr. to aro tlrn same people who am fight­"The process has been in placn !"or till' standard punish nwn t Inv ind by ing you, so it's a circuitous system." scvflrnl years," said Cassidy. see POSTERS / page 6 
¦ CONSTRUCTION BEAT 



Renovation closes Stepan courts 



By TIM LOGAN News Editor 
The installation of two water pipes under SL Josr.ph's Drive will close the Stepan basketball courts until early April, affcct­in g the opening rounds of Bookstore Basketball and clos­ing the street for several days. 
Construction, which began be!'orc spring break. is tenta­tively scheduled for completion April 9, according to James Lyphout, associate vice presi­dent for Business OpHrations. In thn meantime, the Stepan courts will be home to large piles of dirt displaced by the digging. Tim Bookstoro event begins April 4. 
"We'vn kind of planned around it," said Brendan Poe, Bookstore Basketball commis­sioner. "llopef'ully it'll be done !narly in the tournamontl, and we won't have to worry about 
The Observer/Joe Slark 
'WE HOPE THAT MOST, IF NOT ALL, OF BOOKSTORE 
BASKETBALL WILL BE HELD ON THAT SITE 

[STEPAN].' 
J!\AWS LYl'l/01'1' 
1\SSOU/1"/'1£ VICH f>l/l:'Sl!Jt'N1 FO!i BustNfSS O/'l:'/(A T!0NS 
it... Lyphout cxprnssnd hope that the annual Notre Dame sporting .tradition will not Im advflrs(dy affect11d by tlrn conslruc!ion. "We hope that most, ii' not all. of Bookstorn BasknUmll will be held on that site," Im said. While the digging should be done by April 9. sewral courts will nend to be rnsurl'acPd. The timing of that will dn1rn11cl on when the asphalt plant opens. The plant cannot opnn until tlrn weather warms up, which Lyphout said should happen in time for Bookstore. "I think we'll be able to get it closed up and ready," Im said. "We hope we can gl\l it open in time." Bookstorn ollicials will sclwd­ule games earlier in tlrn day and later ,tl night at otlwr sitl)s in 
order  to  accommodate !Im  
see STEPAN/ page 4  
I  
·.: ~ ..:,./.,...  

The Observer/Brandon Candura 
Alumni to elect new reps 
By ANNE MARJE MATTINGLY Associate News Editor 
The Notre Dame Alumni Association is urging seniors, third-year law students and graduitting graduate students to vote by Wednesday in its annual membership olections. according to Chuck Lennon, executive director of the Association. 
"Students are given this opportunity to take part in the election of individuals who will soon be their representatives on the alumni board," said Mary Pat Downing, editor of Alumni Publications, in a writ­ten statement to The Observer. "Six of the 18 regional seats and one of the three at-large seats are up for election to three-year terms. 
"The studtmts who rl:lceivod ballots are asked to vote for one candidate from each of the regions up for lelectionJ," she continul')d. "Alumni throughout th() country do th() same. rngardless· of which is their region of rnsidence. •· 
Lnunon explainocl thti advantages of thn election sys­
tem. 
"IWn invest] a lot of lime, effort and money to have n national eloctio11, Many a...<;sOr.i• ations have appointod rnotn• hers." he said. "Our University is 11. worldwide orgnnizntion. We rocruit young tnf!n and women on an international· basis and we would like to be 
~ee ALUMNI / page 4 



The Observer• INSIDE Tuesday, March 16, 1999 


utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Study shows daily drink does not cause breast cancer 
130STON 
Women who drink onn alcoholic bev,•rage a day are at no more risk for developing breast cttncor than non-drinkers, according lo a study conducted by researclrnrs at thn Boston University School nl' Medicine. 
The Jindings, published last month in the /\merican .Journal of' Epidemiology. contradict several past studies. many of which show that a woman's risk of breast cancer increases in accordance with lrnr level ol' alcohol consumption. 
Previous research indicated that women who drink can increase their chance of doveloping breast cancor by 20 to 30 percent. according to Dr. Yuqing Zhang, head researcher in the BU study. Tbe common idea is that alcohol increases levels of estro­gen, he said. 
Scientific evidence do--1s nnt. how­ever, clearly support this connection, 


"Blindly saying that any alcohol will increase vour risk l'or breast cancer is not ~veil established. It is still controversial," he said. 
Zhang and other scientists exam­ined data from 5,000 Framingham women, collected since 1948. The women drank an average of one drink per day, while subjects in many other studies consumed two drinks each day on average. Zhang said. 
Drinkers and non-drinkers in the 
BU study showed the same risk for developing breast cancer, he said. 
In addition to studying lighter drinkers. BU scientists used methods different from past researchers, according to Dr. Curtis Ellison, sr.nior author of the study, 
"Tbe way we collected data was particularly important to our study," Ellison said. · 
Many earliM studies were case­controllcd, meaning subjects who had already been diagnosed with cancer were asked to recall their drinking habits over the years, he said. 
This method leaves room for error, since women being questiorn:~d may not accurately remember their past behavior, Ellison said. 
The BC review, however, was a prospective study. Researchers gath­ered data on the women before they developed cancer, hn said. 
¦ Om:GON STATE Ui\m!ERSfTY 

Stadium name possibly up for sale 
CORVALLIS. Ore. 
, ls corporate sponsorship coming soon to a stadium near you? Maybe. maybe not. In the changing world of athlet­ics, many sports organizations and athletic programs are following an increasingly common trend: sell the naming rights of a sports venue to a corporate sponsor and reap financial benefits. "I think that marketing opportunities now days are an important part of college athletics," said Oregon State athletic director Mitch Barnhart. "What we've got at Oregon Stale is a financial situation that requires some unique approaches -unique approaches to how we solve them." And at other schools, that has involved naming rights. Arizona State, a fellow Pac-10 school. recently sold the naming rights for its University Activity Center to Wells Fargo bank. ASU received a $5 million gift from the bank last July. In exchange, the 25­year-old basketball venue became the Wells Fargo Arena. 
¦ UNIVERS!TY Of V\J!SCOl\lSIN~M!LWAUKEF. Students plan protests over investments 
\11LWAUKEE 

University of Wisconsin students arn planning protest 
demonstrations and other actions after the recent discov­
ery that the UW Trust Fund Portfolio holds investments in 
a US-based company with documented cases of human 
rights abuses. Student activists both at UWM and al UW­
Madison have targeted Board of Regents members who 
are ultimately responsible for approval nf investment poli­
cies. The California-based compa11y Unocal has been 
found to have used slave labor and has forced relocation 
of ethnic villagers along its oil pipeline in Burma, accord­
ing to a press release issued March 1 by UW Greens, an 
environmental watchdog group. the UW Alliance for 
Democracy. Earthrights International and the UW­
Madison chapter ol' the Free Burma Coalition. "(Unocal) is 
well knpwn for union busting and toxic dumping in 
California," said John Peck of the UW-Madison Greens. 
¦ fLOR!Ol\ STATE UNIVERSITY Regents vote against new med school 
TALIAHASSEE, Fla. 
Opting off the political merry-go-round, State University System chancellor /\dam Herb0rt showed his independence Friday, recommending existing medical schools be expanded before a new one is established at Florida State University. "While some might suggest that these recommended deci­sions will result in winners and losers, I would urge a much more sophisticated, less cynical pBrspective," Herbert said. "It is my sincere belief that ii' tlw Board of Regents adopt, and the Legislature and governor support this plan, every­one associated with or impacted by its implementation is a winner." The Board of Regents' approval of that recommen­dation brought to a halt the yearlong debate about the need for more doctors in Florida -at least for the Regents. I louse Speaker John Thrasher, R-Orange Park. led the push for a medical school at FSU and vowed Friday to ask legislators to set aside $60 million in tobacco settlement money. 
¦ iJNIVERSlTV OF CAUFOHNIA-BERKHEY Class teaches the art of turntablism 
BEHKELEY. Calif. 
It is Wednesday evening and the usually-hushed corri­
dors of Univarsity of California-Berkeley Barrows Hall are 
echoing tlrn sounds of break beats, bass lines and staccato 
scratches. The sounds emerge f'rom room 174 in a never­
before-seen fusion of hip-hop music. turntablism and 
good old academia: Music 98/198, "Introductory 
Turntablism," is the first legitimate academic course in 
the history of the United States that teaches the art and 
techniques of "turntablism." Taught and created by UC 
Berkeley juniors Michah ·Muraoka, an American Studies 
major. and political science major Hodney Sino-Cruz, 
"Introductory Turntablism" tnaches a group of approxi­
mately :10 students "how to actually spin records," a skill 
which Muraoka and Sino-Cruz say has never been done 
before on any university campus in the nation. "It's very 
progressivn and alternative," Muraoka says. 
¦ SOUTH BEND WEATHER ¦ NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 

AccuWcalbcr"'Jforecast for daytime conditions and high tcmpcrntur~~ 
H L 
Tuesday ~ 55 25 Wednesday~ 62 37 Thursday.~ 53 37 Friday ~ 49 33 Saturday ~ 50 33 

Vi.a As$()~1a,~d Pross 

Atlanta 65 35 Dallas 73 55 Madison 47 24 Baltimore 53 26 Des Moines 52 27 Miami 75 42 Boston 46 30 Hartford 44 29 New York 50 29
Q,Q,~9,Q.QtJ ~ d 
Chicago 54 28 Indianapolis 55 31 St. Louis 62 37 Showers T·storms Ram Flumes Snow Ice SI.Jfl/ly Pt. CJoudy Cloudy 
Cleveland 46 24 Louisville_ 63 37 Vermillion 52 30 
Via Associa1ad Press GraphicsNet 
page 3 

\ l'lll·sday, March 16, l999 The Observer• NEWS 
¦ :vlULTICUlTiJR': u!,1: 
BCAC to honor Peters' memory with artistic tribute 
Special w the Oh,avcr 
Thi• !!lark Ct1IL11ral Arts Council (IICACl will hn pn•­
•wnli11g a dramatil' podry i'P1tdi11g ol' original ponms and music cPlnbrating !lir• lifn of' part of the tribute lo l'cters. an t.lw latP 1:rski1w l'ntc1rs tonight. English professor who dioct a 
"Songs For My Mollrnr; And y<1ar ago. Webstor, a notod Otlwr Wonwn l.ikn [lnr." an sculptor and writ.nr. will also original po<im by Jak<1 hn giving his own personal WPbst<'r, will lw prc1s_n1_1t_('_.d_a_s_1_·1_1m_,_·11_·k_·s_._____ 
The IVillium unJ Kt1therine Devers Prowum in Duntc Studies 
in conjunction with the McJievul Institute 
presents: 
"The Language of Fraud in Lower·Hell" 
Giuseppe Mazzotta 
(Yale University) 
1999 William and Katherine Devers Visitii1g Pi;ofcssor of Dante Studies 
Tuesday, March 16 ~ 4:30pm 
Departn1ent of Special Collections I02 1--Icsburgh Library 
hel' and open to the public; foll9w,:<l by a rc;ception .tc)which all are wdcome. Thi~ k-Llur,· is thL· t\rst in J rnmpa<.:t seminar tilled "DantetVfoe-.,and th( Quest for Virtue." l'roti:ssor Mazzotta will prl'sent a Sl'C<>nd. public lvt;tnt~ (/11 March 2 5 at 7:30pm in 138 Ddt1rtolo I lall: "Dank lktw1c•ch I~onavcntun: and Aquinas." 
hir furtl1LT inltirmation contact thl' Devers Program in Dante Studies at (2 I 9) 631-5610. 
Bringing It All Together 
Come Join the Student Body Government '99-'00 
Applications are now available in the Student Government office for 1999-2000 Office of the President Team positions 
Applications are due Wednesday, March 17, 1999 by 5:00 p.m. in the Student Government office (203 Lafortune). 
A list of positions available is included with the application packet. 
Interviews will be Thursday, March 18, 1999 and Saturday,March 20, 1999. Please sign up for an interview when one picks up an application. 
Positions will be announced on Sunday, March 21, 1999 
The presnntalion will hcgin with mast.er of' c(1re111011ies Hodnny Cohon, dir1)ct.or of' Urban Programming and Outreach, giving liis pnrsonal rnf!ections lrnginning at 7 p.m. in Washington Ila!!. 
Spncial~----­tributns by fdlow assoc;'­ates, st u­dPnts and f'ri1)111ls will l'ollow, with readings ol' s11nrn of J>ntnrs' work,!\ photo monlagn of Peters will IJn prnsnntnd while Fath,ir Cluv Evans and the AARC i\lass Ciioir will pPr­rorm the rccnssional music, 'Tvn Got,\ T1istimonv." 
"We Give You Til;111ks" will be pcrf'ornrnd by So1111ds ol' Blacknnss during tlrn intermis­sion. 
Chandra .Johnson. assistant to the prnsident and the 


CTV(!nt's mistress of cflrnrnonics, along with Kimlrnrly Flint­llamilton, assistant drnll1 oft.Im Collegn of Arts and l.(1tters. will makn a spncial prnsenta­tion to April Langlny. an English graduate student, on behalf or thn family of Pctnrs. 
Following this will he the prnsm1tatio11 by Wnbst.er and a presentation ol' "llnyond The Vnil" by Daryl Colny and an original song by lyric.isl Diane Buchanan. 
Ceorgn Moss. spocial assis­tant to tlrn virn pnisident for Student. AITain;, will provid11 tlrn closing comments. Beth Clark, f'r1!shman BCAC mem­ber and Damcyo11 llarrison, senior BC!\C serrntary, will provide spocial acknowledge­nrnnts and announc1rnrn11ts. 
Following tlrn presentation, 
the BCAC: will be holding a 
rnception in tho Of'l'icn of 
Multicultural StudPnl Affairs 
until 11 p.m. on the sncond 
floor of LaFortunn Student 
Center. 

Boeing cuts thousands of jobs setting layoff record 
As;ociated Press 
Sl!ATTI.F 
Booing Co. said Monday it will bf1 abln to cut 6,700 morn jobs than expoctml, thanks to rndu1:ed ovnrtimn and ollrnr manufacturing dfil'.i111H'.ios in its comrnnrcial airpla1w divi­sion. 
Thn additional job ruts will nrnan that total job rPd t1t·Uons by tlrn end or Uw yPar will hn at thi· high 11ml or a rangP ol' 28,000 to :18,000 that the company announcnd 1•arlinr, Boning said. 
"They br,gan to makl' a turn 
in tlw fourth quartnr last ynar 
and havn continued l.o makn 
improvenrnnts in production," 
Boeing spokr,sman l'ntnr 
Conte said. "i\s you gc1t hnttnr, 
and more dl'iciPnt. you nond 
l11ss rrnoplo to do tlw job." 
While l.lll'rn will IH' layoffs, 
about hall' ol' tlrn job cuts will 
comn through allritio11. he 
said. 
Boning's profits and its stock 
price havn lrnen s11vnrcly 
depressed during most of the 
past two years, the rnsull of 

production line snarls, parts shortagns and latn aircraf't dnlivnrins. 
Tim trou bins began as Hoeing was cranking up asscnnbly lines to record pro­duction rat.ns, and asking worknrs lo pnrform vast amounts or overtime. 
Since then sales havn slack­Pncli dun partly to rncnssions in Asia and otlrnr markets and Bo,iing plans to rtHI uc11 its production rntes ovnr llw nexl t.wo years. 
It. announced late last y1iar it would reduce employment from ils mid-1998 pnak of 2:~8.400 down to bntween 185,000 to 195,000 by tlrn end 01'2000. 
The Puget Sound area. where the majority of Boning jetliners am assemhlnd. will bear the brunt of the layoffs. 
Machinists union ol'ficials say the nnw job cuts arn uncallnd for. Tim union, which represents Boeing production workers in Seattle and Wichita, Kan., negotiatos a new contract with Booing later this year. 
¦ CLARIFICATION 

The Observer reported in the Wednesday, March a edition that the Graduatn Stucl1ml. Union Council will hold a l'orum to discuss a resolution concorning tho Board of Trustoos dor.ision not to add sexual orientation to the University's non•discrimi­nation clause. The council did pass the resolution and has planrn,d tho forum just to discuss the matter. 




Alu01ni 
continued from page 1 
rPpn~sented in the same 
way." 
The ballots contain biogra­phies and statements from all candidates to help familiarize voters with graduates run­ning for board membership to encourage alumni to partic­ipate in the election, explained Downing. Despite these efforts, Lennon said that younger alums are less likely to vot(' than their older counterparts. 
"We'rn looking for a way to make it better. We've been tracking voters by class year for throe years," he said, explaining that the Association uses color-coded ballots as one way to gauge the number of' alumni in dif­ferent age groups who are voting. 
Lennon t!mphasized that graduates should vote because the elected represen­tatives determine the policies of the Associrrtion. 
"The alumni board [mem­bers arej lhe policy makers of the Association," he said, not­ing that the club coordinates alumni affairs in the areas of continuing rducation, com­munity service, alumni clubs, stude~t relations and admin­istration. 
Downing noted that University president Father Edward Mallov met with the board during each of its three annual gatherings last year to determine alumni opinions on a possible membership in the BigTrm. 
According to Lennon, voting is easy and quick. 
"It only takes seven check­marks and we pay the postage," he said. "There's no reason not to read it and vote." 
He also highlighted the duties of at-large board mem­bers, who must be young alumni. 
"[Their] job and responsi-


Stepan 
continued from page 1 
decreased number of courts. Poe expects that only two will be unusable and that the tournament will still run smoothly. 
This construction is part of a $28 million project to expand the volumi~ of chilled water available to operate air conditioning units around campus. The expansion comes as a result of recent campus construction. 
The new bookstore, the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center and other buildings have increas11d the demand for air conditioning across campus. Also, the Main Building will be air condi­tioned when it reopens this 
The.News 
Department is 
looki"'9 fo,... 
w•·iter-s. \!av\ 
coV.ld be:,fh:e 1"ext o.ddiH0h to this disfil"l­91.,\ished ·9 ~o/.:\p. Call 1-5323, 

bility .is to represent the views of the young alums," Lennon said, noting that the University considers those 'vvho have graduatnd within the past ten years as recent alumni. He explained that these graduates are repre­sented by at-large members rather than regional dele­gates because many arc not settled in onP area, but i.nstead are moving around and may attend law, graduate or medical schools. 
"We basically serve as a lia­so n between young alums and the Alumni /\ssodation and facilitate communication between alumni and their clubs," said Julie Epping, a 1993 alumna who is a cur­rent at-large member or the board. "We have our own committee; we sham ideas and come up with ways to involve young alums." 
Epping Gited tlrn commit­tee's work on creating a Web site for recent graduatns and efforts to encourage local alumni clubs to utilize 1~-mail to contact young alumni. 
Lennon said that eligible voters include students grad­uating in the year of' the elec­tion ,md all alumni who made financial donations to the University during the two cal­endar years prior to the el0,c­tion; this year's voters are those who gave during 1997, he explained, because records on 1998 donations are not yet available. Approximately 10 percent of the 50,000 eligible alumni vote each year. said Lennon. 
Elected memb1\rs serve for three years and may only serve one term. 
Epping believes that this year's graduates should be concerned about who is elect­ed to the at-large positions because of their emphasis on the needs of young alumni. 
"[Young alumni! should vote for the at-large members especially to get someone in there whom they think will represent their interests," she said. 
summer. 
Other parts of the project will include construction of two 24-thousand ton water chillers and added infrastruc­ture at the water cooling plant. The only other signifi­cant disruption will likely occur during construction of tlrn science teaching facility on Juniper Hoad. That will not occur for at least a year, however, Lyphout said. 
One of the two rww pipes being buried under St. Joseph's Drive will carry chilled water from the plant to campus, while thn other will carrv the used water back. • 

London $277 Amsterdam $3 51 Rome $374 Barcelona $402 
F:aru ani from lndl•rnpolh,uch wq b ¦ uul on• P.T purch11•.FtrH do not lnclud• to:u,wh!ch cu, tctal betwun Sl atid S80.lnt'I 5tuchnt ID m 'rt b• rc•ivlnd, Fuu .,. valhf for departure, !n April Ind u• 1ubje<t to ch11•ri.R.•1trlnlorll apply C:all lor 01.1r lcw domtnlc hr.a and ,a,., to 
o[l-,tr world wtd• dettl,u,Oo,u. Don't tor1et co order your l:un.llp:ua! 
litim@II Travel ,.._ 
(lF.E: Council on lntcrnation1I Educational Exch1ni, 
I -800-2Council 
-~:llw~~-f~UQJ\'-,tra~e.l ic~m,. 
LUMNI BOARD CANDIDATES BY REGION 

he following alumni are candidates in the upcoming Alumni Board election: 
Region 2 (CO, MT, NM, SD, UT, WY and Calgary, Alberta): Cecilia Serna '83 and John Studebaker '62 Reg~on 5 (IA, KS, MO, NE): Bernard Dierks '59 and Paul Drey '89, '92 JD Region 11 (ME, MA, NH, Northern CT, RI and VT):' Susan Burke '87 MBA and John Gleason III '65 Region 12 (DC, DE, Ea~tem PA, MD, VA): Dennis Dunleavy '79 and Sean O'Brien '86 Region 15 (GA, NC, SC): Peter Campbell '56 and Thomas Crozier Jr. '58 Region 17 (FL, Puerto Rico): William Ke!Jey Macke '70 and Carol Ann Breyer '68 MA 
Unconditional 




love. 

Fall in love with the delicious flame-broiled WHOPPER~ Right now, just 99¢. Come to think of it, there is one condition: You have to order it. 
(For a limited time. Price may vary at participating restaurants.) 
BURGER 

KING 

It just tastes better. 
The Huddle -LaFortune Student C~nter 
©1998 Burger King Corpora1ion. Burger King Corporation rs the exclusive licensee of the registered Whopper and Bun Halves logo trademarks. 
. 






·1111:sd:iy, March 16, 1999 
page 5 

Ballonists break distance 
record, continue journey 
CFNl•:V.I\ 

Tlw Swiss-I•:11gfo,h balloo11ists trying to cird1' tlw world no11st111l f)l'Okf' ,1\nwril·an millionairr SIP\'1' 1:oss1•tt's dista111•p l'Pt"rird Monday nml sp1•d arross Llw l'arilk toward ~l1•xico. tlll'ir ,·011trol l'PlllPr said. llPrtrand J>iccarcl or Switz(•r!and and Brian .lmws or 1•:ngland final­ly rc•ad11•d a jc•t stn'alll so11tlwast or Ilawaii af"tl'r a s1•P111i11gly PtHIIPss l'lont nhov1• the l'arilir a11d pirk1•d up .~(ll't'd loward ~lnxico, whic·h 1.lu•y hopP to rc-al'h Tu,•sda.y night. Tlw 1·p11[Pr's rompull'l"S showr,d t.hat. somPtimo Sunday c'vcining, t.lw lln•illinj.{ Orbiter :3 brokP t lw I :i,2<U-mil,• clist;1nc1i nicord clainwd by h1ss1•U hPl"orc-Ill' dilrlwd ,war i\ustralia last :\ug11st. Tlwir rPrnrd claim must still lw veri­t'iPd hv till' lntNnalionul FPdtiration or Avia1i,;11. By ,\1onday morning, l'icrard and J111ws lwd Irav1'11•d l<,,:i 1 I mill's sinrl' !Paving thl' Swiss 1\lps on l\larch I. acmrding to tlwir rn11!rol 1·1•11t1•r. It s;1icl ii' all goi,s wdl. t!H•y rnuld hP 11v1•r Maurita11ia 011 tlw WPst roast of ,\l'rirn by 1·riday. rnmplPting lhPir world rir­n,il. 
Chinese panda pair refuse to cooperate in zoo 
AFP Photo 

S/\N 1llEGO Ecuadorian soldiers stand by several taxis blocking one of the access roads leading to Quito, the Ecuadorian capital, on Monday. 
Slw's young and frisky. lln's micldln-aged Hundreds of thousands of taxi drivers paralyzed Ecuador's major cities in protest of a nearly 200 percent increase in fuel price. and IPthargic. So far, llwr1! has b111rn no love 1·1rn rwrtion. San DiPgo Zoo sciPnlisls havP 
Ecuador cab drivers protest price hike
bPl'll dPspPratidy trying to maln a giant 
panda r111rplP in captivity, but so l'ar tlw 
t\sSOCIATEll Pn ESS Thn nation's cmrency, the sucre, had lost one-quarlnr or itsfurry. blnrk-and-whitP cn!a!urns have do1w value in a week and the gov0rnmont has been forced lo tak1)
11othi11g hul gnt 011 1!acl1 otlwr's nerves. "For 
QUITO over seven of Ecuador's :{<J banks in recent months. The cur­this spc>c"il's, tlw out.look is gloomy," Don Angry taxi drivers blocked streets to protnsl gas price rency rallied Monday, rising lo <J,500 sucres against the dollarl.indburg, ltiader of thn zoo's giant panda increases. and thousands of" people lined up Monday in hopes -much stronger than tlrn 12.(i!iO sucrns it closed al IO days
t1H1m. said last W(H1k. On loan rrorn thnir 
or getting cash after banks reopened following a weoklong ago.
natiw China. 8-yt>ar-old Bai Yun and 20­
shutdown. The austerity measures deemed by Mahuad have doubledy,iar-olrl Slii Shi hav11 lwguilml lrnhaviorists Stone-throwing taxi drivers deckc-1d their cars with "for sale gasoline prices and partially frozen bank accounts for orrn
hoping-to matl! tlw endangnrnd animals 
due to hunger" signs and parked them across city streets, year. The president also proposml tax increasns, cuts to thesincf' tlwy jui1wd tlw zoo in SPptt\mlrnr 1996. 
intent on forcing President Jamil Mahuad to abandon austeri­bloated bureaucracy and faster privatization of" slatn nntcr­
M1•a11wliil1i. tlw panda population worldwidP 
ty measures annmmced last week to stave olT !inancial col­prises.
rontinu1•s to dwindle as dl'V1!lopnrnnl nats 
lapse. Prices have risen sharply in strnet market,; and supnrmar­
away at tlrnir barnhoo-lhirk habital. Still. 
DnfcnsP Minister Gen . .10s11 Gallardo said authorities would kets. The prices of many vegetables have doubled, and the
San lliPgo officials hold 011 l hope that Shi Shi use l'orce to clear the strnots if the laxi drivers did not with­cost of cooking oil and sugar has risen by about 40 p1m:ent.
will imprngnate Bai Yun naturally, saying 
draw. Police used tnar gas against one barricade near the Pownrful leftist-led unions, sludenL<; and Indian groups have tlw t:m1pJp's s1ixual malaisP may have bl'en 
government palace, but failed lo break it up. call,1d for street protests and bank occupations W('(Jnnsday lo 
ra11s1•tl by putting tlw pair togetlwr too soon 
Thn Ministry or Educalion dosed schools Monday and many force Mahuad to revoke tlrn austerity measurns.
in tlw past two mating St\asons. 
business opened late because workers bad Lo detour around Many residents say the measures am tough but necessary.
Scottish welcome Lewinsky thn taxi barricadc1s. "The measures are drastic, but they should have bnen clone 
"We can't live anymorn. Tim government wanl<; to kill us," years ago. The delay dun to weak governments has only madn 
CI.ASGOW taxi driver Francisco Delgado said. the sulTering worse," said Maria Alvarez, who sells video cas­
Monica l.1•winsky was grcctPd by a chem·­Government ol1icials met with leaders of the taxi protr,st but settes in a Quito street market. ing crowd Monday as hnr l CJ-stop British failed to defuse tlrnconfrontation, government spokesman Bankers said they fearnd the linanc.ial system might Im book tour rollnd into Scotland. North .Jaime Duran said. affected by the withdrawals by nervous account holders . c;Iasgow Collng11 studnnts Lisa llutchinson "It's been a hard strike by I.he taxi drivers, but wn're going "/\n incredible quantity of pnopl1) have already approached and /\1111P-Marie Mc<;roarty wnre among lo continue meeting with their leaders to reach a solution," the banks to consult about withdrawing money," Xavier thost> who li1wd up early lo gN copies of Durand told reporters. Abarca, a trader with /\BM /\mm, told Dow Jones Nnwswires. "Moni1·a's Story" sign1!d. Tlwy donned Mahuad, who look ollicc seven months ago, closed banks To protect the banks, Mahuad announced Thursday that all Clinton masks and waved cigars. "I think March 8 amid widr.spread withdrawals as invcstorn lost confi­dollar savings accounts and half of dollar checking accounl<; slw's nially cool. and wn know it's probably dence in Ecuador's shaky financial system. with morn than $500 would be froznn for a year. 
not wry original, hut we thought it would Ill' l'unny to do il," llutchinson said. 
¦ BELGIUM 

EU executive commission quits 
ASSOCIATE!> P!lESS in aid and other programs had cro­fraud inquiry. 
atod a climate in which tlrn EU Officials said no other details 
BRUSSELS executive could not remain in office. would bo announced until then. 
The entire European Union "It is better than to continue in The resignation of the entire EO 
Executive Commission resigned such uncr:wtainty." executive branch was the first in tlrn 
Tuesday after a panel of experts The commission is tho powerful history of tho 42-yoar-olcl European 
issued a scathing report on crony­EU's body that runs the day-to-day Union. 
ism and financial irregularities at affairs of the 15-nation trade group, The reslg1rntion of all 20 commis­
S&P 500: Composite the top of tlrn executive branch. drafts laws and enforces their sioners was sparked by a 140-page 
1307.26 Volume: "All the commissioners have implemer,tation. It also represents report by five independent experts
9958.77 
+ 12,67 892,259, I 20 

resigned. We will prepare ,\ state-, the EU in international trad~1 nego• that detailed cronyism and financial 
VOLUME LEADERS ment for io explain the roas<ms for tiaUons. irregularities at tho top of' tho EU 
our resignation," EV Agriculti.J.rc Shortly afterwards, European executive branch.
ceetltMX TJCPI \ CltMAI f &11191 11161 {)f«ACU: •.'Olli' ORCL .. 'j. 03 • 1.4311i 30,00 Commissioner Franz Fischler told Commission President .Jacques It citfld several for lax control over 
CllAN,'F.l..LOil X .'.01 AMl-"M •2. 6] " ltlSQ 4.S, ~6 
U'A.J( rrlM !NC tf'>,X ... " .. A.11100 21.52 reporters al'ter an omergency ses­Sant!Jr also announced the mass aid and other programs for which 
tJELl, COKPUTER DELL d,'lf1 • l .!tifiZ'i-41. 7S Rl'fF: Ain CUflJI" •~o +1LLi .. 4. os1, 24. 61 sion of the European C(immission. resignations. they are rosponsiblti, for putting
r·tiMP.\0 t'OHP.U1'F.R C'FQ ') 74 • i., 1 ]00 J l. JR AOL +',,"7')0
l'lHt~ flNl,JNE •6. l l lOZ.00 Fischler added a report. issued Santor planned to meet later friends and relatives on their payroll
M1CRU5UF1' CURI' H:SFT +}. ~, •'Jo .ti92S 165. t4R INTt:1, rORfl !N'l'C ·O. 31 .Q,3700 111. P.!I 
Monday, citing several of the 20 Tuesday with Jose-Maria Gil Robles, and pleading ignorance when asked
wnfft f.t,O CAft11'~ WC"I' 11\0 6S ,12.,ul§. 24 ,6Z 
European Commissioners for the president of the European why they did not act sooner to stop 
cronysim and financial irregularities Parliament. which instigated the waste and fraud. 


Posters 
continued from page 1 
Buildings such as COBA and OeBartolo are notoriouslv dif­ficult for groups to post infor­mation, according to Cassidy. ~fo explained that this stems from a lack of bulletin boards, the only legal place to post information. 
Other campus facilities, however. are less apt to report groups for illegal posting. 
"O'Shaughnessy [llallJ is, in my eyes. actually enhanced by the array of posters. One has the sense of intelledual vibrancy," said Mark Hoche, dean of the College of Arts and Letters. 
"I'm certainIv of favor of a campus with m~ltiple opportu­nities to advertise intellectual events. I find LaFortune to have insufficient space for that purpose. r find DeBartolo to be similarly lacking," said Roche. "I've made a request that DeBartolo have more bulletin boards, so that it looks more or a locus of intellectual learn­ing." 

"Several concerns have been voiced about DeBartolo," said student body president Peter Cesaro. "The Student S1rnat£1 addressed this issue back in the first semester. Students mrnd to have U1e opportunity to put up posters. Things like that catch your eye when vou're in the classroom build­
ings, We want to make sure 
students have the opportunity to advertise their functions." 
Following the Senate rcsolu­ti on, more bulletin boards were installed in DeBartolo, signaling a trend for future expansion of advertisement 
space, Cesaro explained. 
Gambler faces fine, 

prison for bribery 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX 
A gambler who put up sornP of the money and helped pay a basketball play­er in a point-shaving scheme pleaded guilty yesterday to a charge of conspiracy to com­mit sports bribery. prosecu­tors said. 
Vincent Basso of Buffalo Grove, Ill., will face a maxi­mum prison term of five years and a possible $250,000 fine when sen­tenced on May 24, the U.S. attorney for Arizona said. 
Jose de Jesus Rivera also said Basso, who was indicted in January on charges of sports bribery, interstate travel in aid of racketeering and money-laundering, agreed to forfeit $27,000 as proceeds from illegal activity. 
Basso admitted he worked with Joe Gagliano in Las Vegas to arrange that Stevin "lledake" Smith shave points as Arizona State played Southern California in Fohruary 1994, Rivera said. 
Outlining Basso's role [or the l"irst time. Rivera said 

Basso then helped bet $150,000 on the game, putting up $30,000 himself and agreeing to contribute $11,000 to help pay Smith. 
Basso did much the same
thing with about the same amounts of money for a March 1994 Arizona State game with Washington, but Smith didn't protect the point spread and the gamblers lost their $145,000. wager. Rivera 
said. 
Benny Silman, the alleged mastermind of the original scheme. is serving a 46­month sentence for getting Smith and ASU guard Isaac Burton to shave points in certain games so the team wouldn't beat the point spread. 
The other 1994 games in question were those with Oregon State on Jan. 27 and Oregon on Jan. 29 
Smith. Burton. Gagliano, a Phoenix investment adviser; Chicago trucking company executive Dominic Mangiameln and bis son, Joseph, and Anthony Joseph Frank am awaiting sentenc­
ing. 
Recycle The Observer. 
C 
c:n
·-(I) 
Cl) 


6Jhe~~9?rle;e
= 
ht
"CS 
C 

A.rt ~an4 Cntlclsm
m 
= 
I-

The Department of Art, Art History and Design 
0
.., 

is pleased to announce its annual competition 
{II 

for the Riley Prize in Art History & Criticism. Current Notre Dame undergraduate and 
·­
= 

graduate students are invited to submit essays 
... 

on any topic in the history ofart or art criticism
I-

for consideration in the competition. Essays
a: 

.. must deal with the visual arts. They may have 
.., 

been written in conjunction with a course taken 
I-

at the University, but need not have been. 
a: 
.... 
0 
.,_ 

Rules governing the competition are available 
in the Art Department Office. Two copies of 
C 
m 

the submission must be delivered to the Art 
e 
Department Office, 132 0'Shaughnessy Hall, 
... 

by 3:00 PM, Monday, March 29, to be eligible.
I-

Prizes up to $350 will be awarded. A student
n:, 

may only submit ONE entry. 
C. 
m 
Ct 
>, 
~ 
~ 
"' 
~ 
-~ 
;: 
~ 
• ~ 
-~ 
'< 
~ 
a:: 
1 
-'.: 
:lj 
~ ~ 
-~•
:
.,, 
1
• 
~ 
1: 
l 
1 ~ 
i:: 
"' 
°' 
~ 
"1 
..... 
LOS ANG 

With Demticrats firm!}' b~c'l-: in power in Culifornia., tgtf Democratic National Com·ention is returning fo[,o~ Angeles next year for thefirst time since John J:. Kei'}f'\~\iy was nominated tu 1960. , .,,, a 
Civic leaders and conven.Ut1n • 
booHers said. Mo ' · announce1nent also. wa that the nation's·secon'11 ~itY)iad tc~o).iMe,q\
,iD'Llch,pubUc;iz~d.prob such as recP.ssion./eartl tfootlsandradi'rltits. . 
..... Th¢ choke of Los,An over 12 other cities tha.r asked to submit propp§ii: 
:, :;:.-, '·" _: . ..,::--,:;·,,, ' . 
, ••1'heJ)ernocf11,Uc NatiohiL \ico£1. ent1on 2000, proposed 
•(lommittee shied away l'ro.m the.•·· ~p.atprivate donors pick up 
state in .recent years because it was led by Hepublicans, said former Colorado Gov. R6y · Romer, the chairman. He also cited ballot initiatives that rolled back affirmativ1i action programs and barred state a.id toimmigrants. 
Homer said the party was 
.rJ;i,idy to return to t.he stMe ll()W thatDomocratic Gov. Gray 
Qavis. Is in.. office, ·• and. ,2000• political convention w1U ·~ffiV(,r4ts control both hQ(l'l(:!$ )')e SP.tlsored by the private · \{p tho Lngislaturo and occuf)y · · ~octor with the cooperation of Jriost statewide elected offices.. < fhe public sector," Andrnw 
including Boston and Deny~t' · conv1!ntion bid worn also koy re.fleets California's import~li:c,f factors in the party's decision. · -with its 54 electoralvote~\· Tim Republican convention and generous campaign doriol's will bu in Philadelphia. . · -in choosing. tho noxt .Ptesifo...•.. ''California is the ideal place 
dent. . . .. . . ... ··•· <l. "CaliforniaisthebigAJJvf.fQf> 
i+ny nat;o,natcarnpaigtj,:} ·· 
SherryB?bitchJcffe, a · analy~t ,viJh the §lat,Grad1.w.te t:)'njvai,sity ;$: Politics and Economics. ''TheDemocratswill ¢ here Hke a vacuum deane 
' Jo(;l Andrew, head of the ONG's site-selection t.nam, saii;I California's diversity and .Los Angeles' unique public-private 
to sbowcas11 the positive mess s~ge and vision of the Democralic Party and our pres­ential nominee," AndreV11 ·d. "Calil'omia represents. t:M reat divnrsily ol'this country.»<Jlrn bid, which was Jnit qgether by an independent. host committeo dubbed LA 
much ofthe convention's $35.3 million cost, contrary to the usuaJpractice of'having the city back the deal. Although that element supposedly was a pointof contention between the two ~ides, Andrew praised the unique offer and touted it as a .'.'model for political conven­tioils.." 
''Unlike Republicans, the 
said,. "Not the other way
around." 

Republican National 
Committee spokesman Tim 
Fitzpatrick criticized Andrew's 
remarks, saying the 
Philadelphia convention was 
part of an "unprecedented, pri­
vately funded" package. 

Fitzpatrick also criticized the 
slte,.saying, "The Democrats can'tseem to get away from B11ddhist temples and the·• HolJyWood .elite," in an appar­ant reference to the Hacienda : Heights temple at the center of (uild·raising allegations against 
Vice President Al Gore. 

r,1.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::==::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::..::..:::::::::::::::=:::::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::_
____~ 
TAX ADVANTAGED SOLUTIONS FROM TIAA-CREF 

IF YOU THOUGHT COLLEGE WAS EXPENSIVE, TRY PUTTING YOURSELF THROUGH RETIREMENT. 
Think about supporting yourself for twenty-five, thirty years or longer in retirement. It might be the greatest financial test you'll ever face. Fortunately, you have two valuable assets in your favor. time and tax defertal. The key is to begin saving now. Delaying your decision for even a year or two can have a big impact on the amount of income you'll have when you retire. What's the simplest way to get started? Save in pretax dollars and make the most of tax deferral. There's simply no more painless or powerful way to build a comfortable and secure tomorrow. 
SRAs and IRAs makes it easy. 
SRAs -tax-deferred annuities from TIAA-CREF-and our range of IRAs offer smart and easy ways to build the extra income your pension and Social Security benefits may not cover. They're backed by the same exclusive investment choices, low expenses, and personal service that have made TIAA-CREF the retirement plan of choice among America's education and research communities. 
Call 1 800 8-42-2776 and find out for yourself how easy it is to put yourself through retirement when you have time and TIAA-CREF on your side. 
www.tiaa-cref.org 
ii Ensuring the future for those who shape it."" 
TIAA.CREF Jndit1td11al 11nJ !n.Jtilutit,n11/ &rviu,, Jnr., Ji..1trilmtt.1 CREF r1r1ij,ta1,,., and ,llte,v.,t., in tlu TIM Ru,/ E.ilalt Art'clunl, l.r .'1Ul/'t c.11mpklr ittforltUIIUln, inclurhn.,'1 charge,; and t.'--ptn.Jt.J, tali I 800 8"12.27JJ, e~t•f, 5509, ft,r th~ pM•p«fu,w. Rtad JJum c11rt/ul/y lujtJr~ y,,u im"L..11 t1r JmJ mt1111y. 12198 
Tuesday, March 16, 1999 The Observer• NATIONAL NEWS page 7 


CIA appoints retired admiral to lead spy investigation 
As.ociatcd Press appearnd aimed at adding an additional security changes been too loose, too long. and that is potentially a very seri­air of indepenuencn to an need to be made at the nation's it's too important," Shelby said. ous situation that has damagedW/\SIIINGTON inquiry buffcttccl by partisan weapons laboratories. Sen. Bob Kerrey. D-Neb., tho the security of the United The CIA named a retired politics. Republicans hnvn Committee chairman Richard committee's vice chairman, States ol' America consider­
admiral on Monday to rnview accused tho Clinton adminis­Shelby, H-/\la., said tho admin­cautioned that the espionage ably." 
its own damage assessment tration or acting too slowly istration should consider a case in question involved not Tenet said .Jeremiah will pro­inlo how much nuclear when the potential espionage moratorium on scientific an exchange of scientists but a vide an independent review of weapons ll\chnology, if' any, problem emerged. exchanges in which foreign sci­potential breach by a single the work being done now by a was lost to China through a Cl/\ Director George Tenet entists visit the national labo­employee. But he agreed that multiagcncy intelligence team. susp1\cl1\d spy working at tlrn briefed the Senato Intelligence ratories and U.S. scientists security at the labs must be It is tlrn s,1cond such assess­Los Alamos. N.M .. National Committee on tlw ongoing l'rom the labs go overseas. revamped. ment .lr.remiah has been asked Laboratory. inquiry, and afterward the top "This is perhaps just tlrn tip "It's obvious that consider­to do. Last year. a study hid by Thfl appointment ol' rntirod Hepublican and Dt\lllocrat on of an iceberg. We ,med security ably morn needs to be done," Jeremiah identified problems
Admiral David Jnrcmiah the comrnitte() agreed that at our national labs.... It has Kerrey said. "This is somnthing that contributed to the intelli­gence community's failure to adequately warn of nuclear testing by India. 

"Admiral Jnrnmiah is the perfect person to lead such a review," Tnnet said. "llis cre­dentials am impcccable and his credibility is unquestioned." 
Jernmiah's panel of outsidn experts will oxaminn work begun in mid-Fnbruary within the intnllig(1ncc community about wlrntlrnr a Taiwanoso­born sdentist who worked at the Energy Department's Los Alamos laboratory provided China with tnchnology that could be used in developing a multiwarhcad nuclear weapon. China has yet to field such a weapon, but a documont ohtaitrnd by U.S. intellignncn in 1995 indir.alnd that China had knowlcclgn of t11chnology simi­lar to tlrn W-88, a U.S. multi­warhead nuclear wnapon. 
A Taiwanesn-born comput(\r sci(~ntist. Wen llo Len, was fired l'rom his job at l.os Alamos a week ago amid suspi­cions I.hat Im lnakod secrets to thn Chinese in the 1980s. Lee has not been charghl with any crinrn, and Newsweek maga­zinn said tlrn FB! now bulioves it has virtually no chancr. of making a casn against him. 


How to order delivery using your 




fLEX POINfS! 

Mew~ 

'""'~"~"e." r------------,
1hic:\( c.,us~ 

I Two orders Mozzerella Bread Sticks
~lu.a 

1. Call 1-6902 $5.00 
I ~•a\ (Coupon Required) ~


between 6 pm and 1 am 
1 Use your Flex Points : for Delivery 6 pm -1 am 
2. Give us your order ~ • Tomassito•s Ii ($5.00 minimum) 

3. We will ~[Wi~ri your 
(~~-.99 2-Lite;c;;ief>r~ud --~ 
I with any Large 14" Pizza I 
L,.. h. 



FLEX account
.._\ &....... ,.j e.: c,"14. ~ 8a\ (Coupon Required) 't?J._, ~ ,c_O v<t,) 
1

,~!c."'-_,t,'a : Use your Flex Points 
""\.~' -r;...~ 

for Delivery 6 pm -1 am
4.WHEN DELIVERED, show 1 1 • Tomassito•s •
us your ID and sign the voucher L Call The Huddle at 1-6902 



Hardcover popularity threatens survival of paperbacks 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Could the taken-for-granted paperback mystery or romance book, bought cheap at a drug­store, pulled out on the train and stuck thoughtlessly in a coat pocket, he going the way of the vinyl LP? 
Sales of mass-market paper­backs -long a staple at news­stands, supermarkets and air­port shops -are sliding, under pressure from discount­ed hardcovers and the growing appeal of more literary, more expensive trade paperbacks usually sold in bookstores. 
As prices of the mass-market books have inched toward the $8 mark, sales slipped 7. 8 per­
cent  from  1996  to  1997,  
according  lo  a  report  by  
Veron is,  Suhler  and  

Associates, an investment bank specializing in media compa­nies. 
"The 35-cent paperback is now $7 .99 .... which is not that far away from what a trade paperback costs." said Richard Howorth, president of the American Booksellers Association. "Mass-markP.t publishers may be pricing themselves out of the market." 
Mass-market paperbacks, many of them popular fiction, romance and mystery titles, are smaller and lighter than trade paperbacks. 
Since Pocket Books sold the first modern mass-market books for a quarter just before World War II. compactness and affordability have been their primary appeal. 
"Take it on a plane, take it on a train, take it to the beach," said Jim Mi!liot, the business and news editor at Publishers Weekly. 
But for consumers slrnlling out more money than ever for the books, flimsy may no longer be an advantage. And with chain booksellers lrnavily discounting best-selling hard­covers, many readers may decide not to wait the year or so it takes for a book to come out in paperback. 
Some experts even suggest that aging baby boomers want books with larger typefaces. 
Adding to their troubles, mass-market paperbacks can't seem to get any respect in chain bookstores, which com­mand a major slice of the book market, several publishing analysts said. 
Unlike the smaller chain out­lets that were once common in shopping malls, superstores like Barnes & Noble and Borders Books & Music focus most of their promotional mus­cle on new titles, often letting backlist mass-market books fend for themselves, Milliot said. 
"Mass-market never gets any 

Gotn 


The Kellogg and Kroc Institutes 
Cosponsored with LMin American/North Amerirnn Church Concerns (LANACC) and tile Depart,nent ofTheology 
Annual Archbishop Romero Lecture 
Tuesday, March 16, 1999, at 4:00 p.m. Auditorium, Hesburgh Center for International Studies 
Speakers 

Margaret Swedish, Rdigious Task Force on Central America a.nd Mexico Msgr. Kenneth Velo, The Catholic Church Extension Society 
Seminar 

Romero/Bernardin-Modern Prophets 
Chairpers011 
Robert Pelton, csc, Department of Theology; LANACC Mm;ic coordinated by the Center for Pastoral Liturgy flashy treatment at the super­book sales in 1993, but fell to 
stores," he explained. "They'll 36 percent in 1997, according never even say, 'The new to the Book Industry Study [John] Grisham paperback is Group, a publishing trado in.' -You just have to go and association. 
find it" Even so, many publishers Mass-market paperbacks emphasized that mass-market accounted for 39 percent of all paperbacks wern still impor­
tanL 

"Despite some of the doom­sayers, hundreds of thousands of mass-market paperbacks arn sold in this country every day," said Stuart Applebaum, a spokesman for Random llouse Inc. 
~ ---------WHY NOT..II 
I 

Hometown: 

I 

Shoe Size: 

I 

Favorite Food: 

I 
Lynchburg, VA 15AA Post-Mass Shake 

: "Brother, it doesn't get any better than this. 
1 ANSWER THE CALL--today!" 
--Fr. Paul Doyle, C.S.C., ND '65, '75, Rector, Dillon Hall 

For more information on Holy Cross' one-year Candidate Program contact: 
Fr. Jim King, C.S.C. or Fr. Bill Wack, C.S.C. 
1-6385 

vocation. l@nd.edu 
~ ---_.. FOLLOW HIM .... ? 
check out THE PLUNGEatwww.nd.edu/ ~vocation 




Looking for a great job for your senior year? 
The Alumni-Senior Club is now accepting Bartender and D.J. applications. 

Applications Deadline : March 26 

Gary Schocker  
flutist  
Tuesday,  
March 16, 1999  
7:30 p.m.  
Moreau Center  
Little Theatre  
MgijfjQ  
.For ticket  / <;o~ lHE ARTS ~NOTREoAME, 1N  
information, contact  

Tuesday, March 16, 1999 The Observer• NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
--------------------------------------------------------=--=­

Whitewater lawyers want Hillary's testimony played 

Amidatcd Press 
1.ITTl.1•: HOCK, ;\rk. 

Ind n p n11 d n 11 I 1: o u n s n I KPrHwlh Starr's pros1w11t.ors said Monday th1•y hopn to play part ol' llill,1ry Bodham 
Clinton's vidnotapod t1isti111ony tnslimony that pros(1cutors to a grand jury at tlrn trial of' want to play "pnrhaps :rn min­lwr l'ornwr WhitPwatnr parl­ulns" ol' thn first lady's l<\Sli­nnr, Susan McDougal. mony, as early us Tuesday. 
Starr dnpuly W. llickman McDougal's lawy(•r, Mark Ewing said outside the court­Coragos, was nxpected Lo hous1\ at tlw 1\tHI of Monday's objnct at a hearing Tunsday 

Advisors from every Major, Concentration, Area Studies Program and 1nore (ALPP, Pre-La,v, Career & Placement....) ,viii be present to provide information and answer questions for students interested in the Arts & Letters curriculum 
morning lrnf'orn the trial rosumes. 
In a court filing prepared by prosecutors and obtained by T h e 
,--------, Associated Press, Starr's office sug­g e s t s Clinton's tes• timony makes it even more vital f'or .___.....__....._._,. McDougal t.o Clinton 
cooporatn with tlrn criminal investiga• tion. 
The pros,icutors' court papers say "the vidr.otapn will show that the first lady testi­fied that slw had no knowl­ndge or inf'ormalion about nither" a $27,600 loan rnad(i in Bill Clinton's name or a $5,081.82 check signnd by McDougal and used to pay off part of' the Clinton loan. The ;\I' obtai1wd the papnrs, which had not lrne n l'i !lid with thn court as of the closn of busi­ness Monday, from a person familiar with tlrn casn. 
The prosecutors say "tlrn vid1rntapc ... will tistablish ... the importa11c11 of' qtwslions posed to, and answered by, the f'irsl lady and prnparnd for" McDougal. 
The def'ens11 opnnnd the door f'or prosecutors Lo prnsent Clinton's tnstimony whnn Geragos questioned FBI a.gent Miko Patkus, who works for Starr's of11rn. 
Patkus said last Thursday 

Amtrak train derails 
Associated Press 
BOUHBONNAIS, Ill. 
An Amtrak train carrying between 200 and 400 passen­gers derailed after hitting a truck south of Chicago Monday night, officials said. 
A witness Lo the acddenl told WBBM-AM that she could see flames inside several of the pas8enger c,.tr8. Firefighters wnro on the scone. 
A nursing supervisor at 

St. Patrick's Day Dinner 
Corned Beef, Cabbage, Irish Soda Bread, Potatoes, Salad Bar, Cake, Coffee, or Tea Adults: $6.80, Children: $3.40, under 4 years: free, at the door: $7.35 and $3.70 
Entertainment, Raffles, and 50/50 Pleasejoin us! Call 232-3524 or 232-5839 for Tickets! 
the Saint Mary's College Box Office at (219)284-4626 
Hiverside Medical Center in nearby Kankaken said sovon vittim·s had burn brought to the hospital, including one per­son with an amputatod foot .and anotlwr with hoad injuries. 
The train, known as Citv of N11w Orloans, runs bntwc1cn Chir:ago and Nnw Orleans. It clerailed about 50 miles soulh of Chicago at about 9:40 p.!Tl. near Bourbonnais, n poliro dis• patcher said. 
that ho did not know if prosc­
cu tors had asked Clinton a 
s11rics or (JllllSlions abuut a 
$27,<i00 loan in the nanrn of 
Bill Clinton from tho Madison 
Guaranty Savings and Loan 
owrwd by. McDougal and lwr 
form!'r husband, James 
McDougal. 
Prosecutors allogn that tlw 

Clinton loan is co11rrnclod to a 
fraudulent s:rno,ooo loan 
madn lo McDougal in 1986. 
Shn is charged with contnmpl 
of court and obstruction ol'jus­
tic11. 
!:wing said proseculors want 

to "clnar up misirnpnissions" 
left last Thursday wlrnn Patkus 
tcslifincl that Im wasn't surP 
Clinton had IH•nn qucstiotrnd 
about lh1~ transactions. 
In particular, Ewing pointed 

to q1wstions put to the agent 
about how thn Clinton loan 
was paid off. 
Thn prosncutor's interest in showing Clinton's testimony f'rom April 25, ·1 CJ 1J8, arose at tlrn end of' the day's trial testi­mony, wlrnn prosecutor Julio Myers, with Patkus still on Urn witrwss stand, went through thn testimony thn agent had givnn last wonk. 
Then. l\lyors ref'errnd to Clinton's testimony and at that point Geragos asked for nwnt­ing with U.S. IJistl'ict .ludgn Gnorgp IIoward. 
Clinton gavn lhn vidnotapnd Wstimony at lhn White llousn and it was playml st1vrral days later to Llw WhitPwatnr grand jury in Littln Hock. 





VIEWPOINT 
page 10 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAMt OrncF., P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) .6J 1-7471 
1999-2000 GENERAL BOARD 
EorroR-IN-CHIEf 
Michelle Krupa 

MANAGING EDITOR. BUSINESS MA"IAGER 
M. Shannon Ryan Oave Rogcro 
Assl<TANT MANACINf. EulTOk L.rnrn Pete!le 

NEWS EDITOR ...............................Tlm Lo~m ADVl:.K'l'ISJNG MANAG~R.....••.••........•.••Bryan Lutz VtEWf>OINT EnrroR.............Coll<cn Caughcn All DESIGN MANAGER ............... K(,.·nne(h Ke,1r11,ev Sl'fJRTS EllrfOR . . ...Brion Kessler SYS'rfMS MANAGER.... . ..... Michael Rrvers SCENE EDITORS ... Mich,cl V,ne~as C.A1NT1lOU.F.R .•.• . ....•.. Timmbv L1.ne SAINT MARV'S EDITOR.... Colleen McCa,;hr GR\l'Hlrs F.OITOR......•................•.•Joe Mueller PHoro EmTOR ... Kevin Dalum Wro AOMJNISTRATOR.. .... ·•··••···A!lii-rn1 Krilb 
·n,c: Ob!>crvl'r h tht! in<lcp\.'mkn1 m,'\v~p:-rpcr pt1bli,;hrd l-tv the ~rudcnr, ,,ffhl..' l!niver::iry ~lNl11r,· l):1mc du 1~1c ;md Sain( \.1:iry',; Cnllq~e.. If dot<; nnt m.'C~;1rily rctlcn the pnlkk~ t)f the.· ,1dminim~1ri011 of eidit:r irn,rirndon. Th-.· nc.·w,-. i,;: rerr.1neJ :tS :tcet1r.ttdr and <1hjmwdy ..1~ pu:<i<1;ihlt. Un'iigned cJ.irnrh1b rt"rrt:~11t tl1e opinion or,lw n1:1iority nf rhi.· Editor-in-Chid~ Managing F.Ji1or. A~ist:un Managing f"Jitor :tn,i de-p,1mnt.'llf rdirol'\. c:mnm('.1muil...-.. lt:rrr-n :uui coltunn!I. prt"!ctn the view-; or1hc ,m1hor\ .ind no1 nras....1rilv tho:;l' ofThc: Oh!K'rvt•r. V~nvpnun ~1v.u;l' E:i av,1il.ihh: ,o ;111 mern~r~ uf,he-Nmrc Oame/S:um Marv's crnn111un1ry an.I to all muh:rs. ·1111.! fn.-e cxpn.·s.,iou ofvarying ,)pinions thruu~l1 lc.:ucn is enr;:(>Untgt.-d, 
Contacting The Observer 
Editor-in-Chief  6:11-4542  Office Manager/General l11forn1.1tion  6.'1-7471  
Managing Ediror/Assisranr ME  631-4541  flusinmOftice  6.~1-5.H.l  
New.  631-5.lB  l\dverrisin~  6.~1-6900/8840  
Viewpoint Spon..,  631-5.lO.l 6.'ll-45H  Sv<tcms r:ix  (,31-8839 631-6927  
Scent:  631-4 54 0  Ad E-Mail  observer("'dorwi11.cc.11d.,d11  
Saint Marv's  631-4:124  News E-Mail  ob,ervcr..obmcw,.l@nd.cdt1  
Photo/WC!-b Administrator  b31•8767  Viewpoint E-Maj!  Viewpoit1t.1l!llnd.edu  


¦ GA.PPv'·s GURNER 
Men's Fencing: Notre Dame's Most Winning Sport 

Some may think that football should lay claim to the title of Notrn Dame's most winning sport Wrong. Not even close. 
Notre Dame's most winning team once won 122 matches in a row. They have won more than 90 percent ol'their matches over the past 63 seasons. They have fin­ished in the Top 10 ol'the NCAA tourna­ment every single year since 1975. During the past 25 years, they have finished first, 
Cappy 


Gagnon 

second or third an amazing 17 times. They won national championships ln 1977. 1978, 1986 and 19tJ4. With a litlle luck. they will win their fifth national champi­onship this weekend. They have had 10 l\'ational Champions in individual 11vent.s. Notre Dame's most winning sport is mm1's fencing. 
Since 1947 lrish swordsmen havfi had only one losing season, a 7-8 record in 1962. Since 1973. th11 worst rilcord !'or any Notre Dame men's fnnring squad was the 29-3 mark of the 19% teamI Eleven times during the past 24 y0.ars. the Stabbing Irish have been undefoated. 
The sport of fencing was first seen on the campus in 1907 when Pedro de Landero enrolled in the class or 1911. De Landero practiced in the "Hee" room at Corby llaH with Jose Luis Reqw~na and Encarlos Duque. In 1910. de Landero and Duque gave fencing exhibitions in Washington Ila!! and at Saint Mary's, but nothing more came of' the sport at that time. 
Aftr!r graduation, dP. Landcml returrnld to his native Mexico to put his civil engi­neering degree to work. Ile continued his fencing studies, sµucializing in the saber, under top fencing mashirs around lhP world. De Landero returned to Notre Dame in 1926, as a professor of Spanish. Popular among his colleagues, the witty de Landero was elected president of the Faculty Club a few years later. 
I-le gave another Washington Hall fenc­ing exhibition in 1933. sparking some stu­dent interest. During the following year, do Landero judged a saber bout which fi.11­lowcd a meeting of the Notre Dame French Club. After the bout, de Landero himself fenced student Harold Mav and showed that he had not lost his touche (pun intended). Thus was born the Notre Dame Fencing Club. 
Aller compiling undefeated seasons in 1935 and 1936, de Landero saw his sport elevated to varsity status. During that. time, one of the bettm· tennis players on the campus was a tall. young, accounting stu­dent named Ned Joyce. Three decades later, the H1werend Edmund P. Jove:<\ as executive vice president, supervistid the building or Lim Athletic and Convocation Center. The ACCIJoyce CPnter has been Notre Dame's "home court" for fencing ever sincn. 
De Landero's teams won 75 pm·cent or their fencing matches. ordinarily good enough to ent<ir any school's coaching 
. pantheon. Not for Notre Dame !'encing. though. The next lencing coach was Walter Langford. also a Spanish profossor (and serious Chirago Cubs fan). Langford compiled a winning percentage in excess of 81 percent. Langford's men thrust and parried their way to eight Top 10 linishes in the NCM Tournament. Six of his bladesmen earned All-/\mcrican recogni­tion. After being named chair of the Modern and Classical Languages depart­ment. Langford turned over the team to Ilerb Melton. Melton had fenced saber for Langford in the early 40s. Ile returned to Notni Dame to attend Law School. During his four years as coach, Melton artually surpassed his mnntnr, leading the lr.ish to a winning percentage in cxcflss or 85 pm·­cent. I lis 1 %0 team finished 9-0 and gar­m~rnd sixth place in the NCAA tournamm1t. 
Melton left Notn~ Danrn in 1950 to prnc­ticn law in his native Paducah, Ky. Langford again took over the program. Twelve vcars latr.r, Mike DcCicco, assistant coach under Langford and star frmcer in all lhrco weapons, under Melton. became Notre Dame's fourth head fencing coach. DeCicco had returned to his alma mater to finish his doctorate and teach in the Engineering Department. 
Undaunted by the gaudy winning per­centages or his predecessors. D0.Cicco upped the ante by winning more than 93 percent of his matches 1680-45). l le also garnered five National Championships, coaclrnd eight individual NCM Champions, compil1~d a 122-match win­ning streak. tutored nearly 100 /\11­/\nwricans. amassed ·12 undefoated sea­sons. and earned four National Coach of thn YPar awards. DnCicm also coaclwd and assistr1d in numr\rous Olympic and 'vVorld Championship cvnnts. DnCicco has always lwnn a most b'l'acious pnrson. lfo was particularly helpful to a young, Pager­but-cltll'less, student assistant in Sports Information, assignee! lo cover thn fencing program in 1%4. 
Despit0. his accomplishments as a distin­guisbml engineering professor and fencing coac:h. DnCicco mav have mark an ever grnatPr impact in another capacity. In 19(i4. Father .Joyce askPd DeCicco to start an academic advising program for ath­letns. This program soon became the model for all NCAA colleg0.s. Dd:icco initi­atnd the tutoring, class monitoring and dr,gwn progress components of the pro­gram which arn still the bc)drock of the Academic Services for Student-1\thletr.s Program. DnCicco retired aft.er the 1995 season, turning the program over to his assistant. Yves Auriol. l\uriol had led tho wonrnn to a winning percnntage in oxcess of'95 pnrc1)11t b<ifore also taking ovm· llrn 1rn)n·s tl\am. 
Al'wr four years at llw helm. Auriol has won morn than 93 percont of his matches with tlw mm1's trmm and a comhi1wd rncord for the men's and women·steam greater than 94 percrn1t. Witb a couple morn SPasons liko this y<'ar's 22-1 rec:ord, /\uriol vvill continue the tradition of' men's coaches winning a greater percentage or their matches than their predecessors ­quite an accomplishment, when the bar wa.'i set so high in tlrn beginning! This weekend, tlrn Irish will be in W<fflham, Massachusctl'i on the campus of Brandnis University for llrn NCAA tournament. Men's and women's individual scores are combi1rnd for the NCM tournament. 
Notre Dam() has qualified the maximum of tPn foncers. According to Brian Bou lac, assistant athletic director with oversight of Hrn foncing program. the Irish will bi-a strong contender, along with Stanford. Princolnn. St. John's and Pennsylvania to challenge d1ifo11ding (and pernnnial) cham­pion Pcmn Stat!' r·or the NC/\/\ litlP. Penn State administnrml thn only Irish defoat this vcmr, 14-1 :{, Oil tlw first Wllflknnd or compPtition. Tlw Nittany Lions defoated thn Irish in the NCAA's last yrmr by the barest of margins (149-147). Tho Irish womrm f'nnced strong, outdistancing all tlw wonwn's wams. Notrn Dame lost because or a sub-par 1wrl'ormancn in nrnn 's l'oil. 
Tim Irish men will bci Ind hy defending National Champion and thr0.otinrn All­American, Luke LaValln (sabrnl. Luke may find his toughnst compntition (hun lPam­mat1\ Cabor SzPII<'. [l freshman from BudapPst. llungary. Szelle is ranknd No. l among sabreman in the Midwest. Thr\ womcm will be Ind by rnturning All­Americans Sara Walsh (first team all thren ynars. in foill: Myriah Brown (second lmun all lhrnn yciars in foil); Nicole Mustilli (first team in ep!le): and Magda Krol (second team in epne). Krol was 1997 national champion. 
This is tlm lirst limn tlm I\JCAA tuurna­nwnt h,L'i ber,n held at tlw Boston Cdtic:s baskPlball practicn l'acility since 1994, when thn Irish Swashburkl()rs won. 
Cappy Gagnon. '66, is the Coordinator}<Jr Stadium Personnel. 
'/1,e views expressed in this column are those cfthe author and nol net:es:mrify those nfTlw Observer. 
JU 7AJ(£ 7HAT A9ANAFRR­MA7!11e/ Vi/5 IGNOT/Mff 
IVl</NP/i:Cl­
~!ON,I-IO~Y/ 

GARRY TRUDEAU  
S/R,HAV8 I MfiN­Tl()',/f3f? I flAV8 A 8Af? fi3#/N<3 A­ /NCbG­5AN!l,Y HAJ1;:  

¦ (hWTE OF THE DAY 
, There is strong shadow where there is much light.' 
-Goethe 



VIEWPOINT 
'ltie~day, March I6, 1999 ------------------0B~£RVER ----------------------page 11 
¦ LETTER TO THE EDITOR
¦ LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Phil Donahue 
Responds to Board of Trustees 
Kindly nllow m,, a rninut1• of this busy day to urgo you to call 
upon your fellow trustl'cs to reverse tho decision to cxclL1de sex• 
ual uricntntio11 in Notre Dame's non-discrimination clause. To 
do sn would plncn Notre Dame squarnly in lim~ with t.lm FacuHy 
Senato. t!H~ AnL<IPmir Council. om· own studnnt body and other 
n·spcct1·d Cutholk Univrrsitics which have reached out to all 
thnir sludnllb, alumni and faculty. Those fine schools, including 
(;oorg1•town University, St. Louis University, University of San 
Frnndsco. Boston Collogc, DePaul University, Loyola University 
ol' Chicago, St. 'l'homm, University. Fordham Lnw School, St. 
lidwards University in Austin and otlrnrs. have ndoptod a pl()dg<' 
not to disrriminattJ against gay and losbian members of their 
UniV<'rsit.y family as well as those who seek omploymont. 
wlwtlwr for janilorial openings or prof'essurships. Th11y have 
,ln1w so without t:ontrovClrsy and with no ch11.ngo in tlrn 
Catholicitv of thPir schoob. · 
Mornovi•r, many of Olli" Notre D,tmo Trustt1es preside over lrnsinossfls that hnvo placfld in writing thoir corporatn promise not to discriminate' because of sexual orientation. Notre Dame should do no less. 
Whil11 it is certainly tnrn that no ono al Notre Damo harbors 
any ill will toward homosexual people, our University must take 
rospo11si1Jility for the environment which this action creates. If 
Notrn Damo rnfuses ,won to allow gay students lo nrnel, form a 
duh, or advertise in campus publications, why should anybody 
rospr.ct gay pt>oplo'? 
Pulling it i11 a more painl'ul way, Nlllrn Dame cannot mourn 
tlw death of Wyoming's Matthew Shephard (who was tind to a 
fpneti and bnatcn lo death because he was gay) and at thn same 
lime rPfuse ln grant gay Domers accP.ss to all the rights and 
privilegt1s of nrnmb11rship in our remarkable world-widP family. 
Notre Dame's bias treatment of gays unintentionally nourish­In a letter to the Editor titled "End Allirmatiw1 we really know how dose the 36th score is to thnes homophobi1t. makes it easier for Senator Trent Lott to Uken Action" on Feb. 18th. Loah Aslrn argues that 300th wlwn there are thousands of applicants?
gaym•ss to kleptomania, and opClllS the door to tho kind of hate Amnrica should do away with aflirmative action Aflirmative action was intended to lrnlp quali­crimes that are now on the increase: The body of a gay man because "it denies opportunities to thosr, in the fied minoritios. So, the question now becomeswas recently discovered atop a pile of burning tires in Alabama, 'majority'" and "it wrongfully suggnsts that how we deli no qualified. In tlrn case of a polic11St. I.ouis University, in writing, explains lts non-discrimination minorities arc unablo to succeed without outside oflicer or firefightnr, we noed to know whether orclausfl as a commitment that is mandated by our Christian val­assistance." not that pPrson can fulfill the dutios and obliga­ues and bl'liel's: Nowhere in the lotter docs Ms. Ashe mention tions of' tho position. Either you arn qualified to"St. Louis University prohibits discrimination based on race, why aflirmative action programs arc implnment­do the job or you·rn not. Oncn those qualifiedcolor, SPX, national origin, religion, ago. disability. or vMeran od or how they were intended to be used. Instead applicants are found, then further criteria shouldstatus. In addition, based on our Catholic values and tradition, shll cites personal examplos of how her father be considernd to distinguish them. If tho historywe urn commiltecl to protecting the dignity or each person and and uncle were not immndiatnly awardod jobs and the make-up of that force is mostly whit11thnret'orn extend Olli' non-discrimination policy to include sexual and offers an example of a hypothetical situation then, yos, a minority candidate should be moreorientation. All University policies, practices, and procedures in which sho says she would prefer to have the strongly considered. I don't know the racial histo­urn administernd in a manner consistent with our Catholic most physically imposing (best) cop come to her ry of the police and lirefighter forces in Buffalo,Jesuit idf'ntity." . 
aid during a mugging as reasons for ending a but I don't think I would be reaching if I said thatPloase join me and the thousands of other Irish faithful who program that attempts to give an opportunities to it is disproportionately white and male. Whenlong for our Alma Mater to go on record pledging never to sepa­groups of people who have historically been police shoot an unarmed black man 41 limns inrate anyone from our University family. To state the obvious, we dnnied these opportunities. NY and open lire on a teenage girl in California,arn all God's children, ontitlod to equal access to all the free­Aflirmativo action programs arc an outgrowth we dcfinitnly need to ensure that these policedoms and all the joys of full participation in the life of the and continuation of a national offort to ronrndy forces opnn up opportunities to minorities. WlrnnUniwrsity of Our Lady, Notre Dame. 
subjugation of racial and ethnic minoritins and of black motorists arn disproportionately stoppml women. For much of this century. and as late as and checkod on our highways, then them isPhil Donahue '57 the latn 1960s and early 1970s, I lispanic and something stcrnotypical about tho thinking and
March 12, 1999 

African Americans worn still segregated, for the policies of our current policn forces. When it most part, into low wagci jobs. Whole industries takos longer for police to respond to certain and categories of employment wcrn, in effect, all­neighborhoods .... white and all-male. In thousands of towns and I know Loah Ashr. from a freshman engineering cities police dnpartments and fire departments class for which I was a TA, and I rcrnemlrnr her 

Did Spring Break drain your bank account? Edit for Viewpoint and 
fill it up. 

remained all white and male. Thus, private and public institutions alike too often seemed imper­vious to the winds of change, remaining all-white or all-male long after court decisions or statutes l'ormally ended discrimination. 
As a result, both the courts and lfopublican and Democratic administrations turned to race-and gender-conscious rorncdies as a way to end entrenched discrimination. Remedios that were develupPd after w1riods of' experimentation had shown that other means too often failfld to cor­rect Urn problems. A quick reading of employ­ment statistics before allirmative actions will show the obvious discrimination. and even with affirmative action. minorities and women aro still grossly under-represented in many cmploymont cat11gories. Is Ms. Aslrn suggesting that wo go back to the hiring procndttrPs bof'ore af11rmative ~cl.ion or does she rnally bdieve that those dis­criminatory pract.icos no longer exists'? 
in tho exampln about lrnr f'atlrnr, Ms. Ashe said that in the mid-70s he was denied ,L position as a lirdighfor in Buffalo, NY. dospite scoring high on an merit-based, objective employment test. I le placocl :16th out of thousands of' applicants, but somP minority who had thn 300th best srore out. of thousands got the job. Now 300 out of 2000 is 15 pnrcent, and slrn said that there were thou­sands of' applicants which means the 300th­ranked person has an even better position. No. 300 is not better than tlrn 36th host scorP.. but do as being bright, energetic, prnpared and curious. Tho class was far more rewarding to have Leah 
in it. I am a black Anrnrican graduate student. and I don't doubt that I am here bncaus1i Notre Dame mad11 a conscious effort to admit a quali­fied black student into tlwir graduatP program. 
For this I am grateful. I am not concerned whether people think I was admitted solely on race or not, and I would much rather that pt!oplc worried about how I got in than deal with the frustration ol' not being admitt(ld to a place for which I am qualified. I'm not sure how many othnr minority TAs or professors that Ms. Aslrn has had (I do know that tlrnro was not ono black student out of the 50 in my classes). hut if Notrn Dame had adrnittod anothor whitr. graduate stu­dent in my place, tlwn them would lw no African /\nrnrican graduate stuclonls in the computer sci­ence dcpartm1mt horn, and I would have nevflr had tho pleasure ol' being Leah's TA. 
Hace should not bo the primary !'actor whon considering employnwnt or college admissions, but rather a considoration. just like tnst scorps and extra-curricular activitios. 
Jucain Butler 
Gr.tduare Swdcn1 March 4. 199<) 




Go Irish, Celebrate 
By JULIA GILLESPIE Parades also commemorate the greatness of Ireland did not accept him. Bishops con­A.sisranc Scene Editor St. Patrick in Ireland just as they do in demned him as an outsider and a f'ornigner, America. In fact, Irish-Americans mav have even though he embraced the Irish culture. The feast day of Saint Patrick is traditional­been the founders of this tradition ·in the St. Patrick struggled to gain an understand­ly associated wilh hope, joy and their off­United States. ing of the Irish language. Unfortunately for 
B

spring. Historically, "As the sturgeon or Some argue that the earliest St. Patrick's him, the Irish are often lauded for their liter­salmon swims exactly in midstream, so does Day in Ireland was over 150 years ago. Men ature and clever proverbs. Some Irish expres­St. Patrick's Day fall exactly in mid-spring." wore green, bore shamrocks and marched to sions have gained univorsal acceptance, such 
Though the holiday of St. Patrick's Day orig­the beat of a drum. The Irish-Catholic as, "The last straw broke the horse's back" inated as a feast day for the patron saint of Temperance Society was well represented at and "Be nic1~ to them on the way up -you Ireland, it has evolved into a holiday for peo­the earlier parades, but their presence faded might meet them all on the way down." Other ple of all religions and ethnic backgrounds to in later years. witty proverbs include, "Never let your right 
L

unite and celebrate as one. Today, families still march together with hand know what your left hand is doing" and 
Students at Notre Dame look forward to this their small children. They rnjoice in their land "A friend's eye is the best mirrc:ir." as an opportunity to share good limes with and the history of their people. Spme .families St. Patrick intensely st_udied the various eln­friends and classmates shortly after spring march with their family crest to display their ments or the Irish language and history for break. Campus clubs organize activities to pride. Politicians of different ethnic and rnli­the seven years that he spent as a slavo in commemorate this feast day, while other stu­gious backgrounds march in St. Patrick's Day Ireland. Fortunately, th!~ clergy eventually dents plan parties to share the spirit of the parades (think Boston) to gain civic recogni-acr,epted him. 
A

holiday. . tion. Since then, St. Patrick conlributed a great 
Many students drink green beverages in Other cities, such as Chicago, display their deal to the Irish l'olklore. He is especially recognition of St. Patrick. Fortunately, St. spirit on St. Patrick's Day by dying their remembered for his miracles. Legends say Patrick did not disapprove of drinking these rivers green. that he defeated witches and transformed beverages. Although he frowned on excess, he St. Patrick's Day also recognizes lhe their dwellings into monasteries like the Hock had a brewery in his own home. St. Bridget achievements of the man, St. Patrick. He of the Candle. Other stories say that Christ was also noted for the excellence of her bev­allegedly sent ,bis pastoral staff on a pilgrim­revealed llrn island o/' Purgatory to St. Patrick. 
R

erages. age from Germany to Rome. They stopped at St. Patrick also had an impact on the man­
Other traditions associated with St. Patrick a house on an island in the Tyrrhenian Sea ner in which the Irish people practiced include the wearing of green ribbons and during this journey where a married couple Roman Catholicism. He distinguislrnd it from shamrocks. with aged children and grand-children the Christianity that other groups observed 
St. Patrick's Day is observed quite different­resided. because of the cheerful nature of Celtic ly in Ireland than in America. The Irish Jesus supposedly blessed St. Patrick's fol­mythology and its dogmas. observe the holiday in such a way that all of lowers with His staff and graced them with There arc clearly several facets of Irish and the thurches fill to capacity. Voices echo the youthfulness. He then made them promise to Roman Catholic history that account for the countryside singing "Hail Glorious St. give the staff to St. Patrick when he stopped celebration of the feast day of St. Patrick. Patrick." by their residence in Rome. Please remember tomorrow -the importance 


The words include, "All praise to St. At age 60, St. Patrick received this staff and of this holiday comes not only from the rich Patrick/Who brought to our mountains/The the message to "go and preach in the land of heritage of a proud people, but also from the gift of God's faith,ffhe sweet light of his love!" the Gael." The staff is still preserved today. many other Americans of' different ethnic 
Irish families traditionally celebrate the hol­St. Patrick discusses the obstacles he con­backgrounds who simply decide to enjoy lhis 
E

iday with the man of the household blessing fronted with the Irish people in his day of fun and celebration regardless of' his wife and children while he makes the sign "Confessions." whether or not they are wearing green. of the cross with a charred stick. At first, the clergy and educated people of llappy St. Patrick's Day! 
y

¦ Scene Cooks AHul,iday CeleLrate St. Patric~'s 
Eat it! St. Pa . ' . ..· · . Day Tomorrow! ·mp.~t eat1:1IO st 
d~y:;wb~t"not·· 
ee· a

.;::;.;a..::;=-=a. 
,.---...,. ·:-.:.:))ffl}:.~-----.i,-··c<_-_

/i.i.:'..{i~.::.~_fr_;,-,.·:.(:·· 
:;1:s=~Wt~]jS:}\ft:., 

Al!}t\> -­
Ingredients: 
,2<:-sups ma.shed pbfatoes< 1/4 cup chopped fresh parsley 2cups finely ch~pped c~t>bag~i ·•·.. · · ....· > < 
l~l/2 cups finely chopped Cookeu corrii'iif5e'e~·•.·.·•· 2 cup shredded pasteurized process cheesefood 1/2 cup shredded carrot l/4tmp cnoppedmnion 1 teaspoon caraway seed (optional)
\< . 

Directions: 
Mix potatoes and parsley; spoon into two-quartcasserole lMix remaining Jngredieµts; SPQ9ll ove),':pot&l~.fllixtul'e ·.· .·. •..·· ...•.· II Bake at 35U*F for 35 to 40 niinutes or 1.iiitil flioroughlyheat­ed. 
I 
Microwave Directions: 
Mix potatoes and parsley; spoon into two-qua,rt mi~rowav-. able casserole Mix remaining ingredients; spoon over potatoes 


1 Microwave on HIGH 8 to12 minutes or until'thoroughly heated 

Let stand five minutes before serving, -Serves six. Enjoy! .I 
Recipe courtesy of Kraft 


..Sce11.ev 
Tuesday, March 16, 1999 ------------------Os~fRVER ---------------------page 13 

¦ 8~ene Through Our Eyes 
A KILLER GREEN 
By MICHAEL VANEGAS Scene Edit;<tr 

As al<id, St. Patrick's Pay was about one thing. and one thing alone. This one thing infiltrated evory facet of evl.lty March 17. Of course, this one thing is the color green. 
Symbolically, the color grnen is envy. I guess I always envied those people who (:ould gnt into tho holiday so much that.Christmas looked liko Arbor Day (I apolo­gize to'those Arbi,r Day fanatics). There were the cook• ies,. the leprechaun ouifits, ihe parties and the-sham­rocks. 
Okay, so maybe I didn't envy those people. Perhaps I almost despised them. Gome on! It's just a Utile spring­time holiday. Why should it be so meaningful? 
Wait. I know the answer. It's the whole pinching thing. When someone is caught not wearing anyLhing green, they ,m~ left unprotected to the great pinching punishment. To forget the green shirt on St. Patrick's Day is to ask for pain. But it's not just a physical pain. lt'~.eju:9t!qnalas well..• 
l rem.ember when I was in elementary school. It was a beautiful day, and my mum woke me up to get ready for school and cat breakfast. It seemed like an ordi­nary day. Unfortunately, I kept thinking it was an ordi­nary day. 
~o lWentto school--:-.with my black backpack, blue jeans, white basketballshoes, white socks, black hair, brown skin, brown eyes, clear fingernails. white undershirt and gray t-shirt. I walked around the play­ground with my usual dreary face, even though l thought it was going to be a pretty good day. 
But thin.gs seemed immediately different. The play• ground was nolhing but a sea of green little brats run­ning around. I thought I was lost in a big bucket of green stuff. I didn't know what kind of green stuff­just that itwas green and it was stuff. 
I was scared. I realized why that green stuff was there.1twas St. Patrick's Day. 
So all of my supposed friends attacked me. I was pinched all over. I was pinched in places where one would never want to be pinched. It hurt a lot. It hurt way too much. · It didn't really kill me, as the title to this column implies. But it did affec;t my outlook on life. No longer do I go outside of my room or house without green on my body. In case you were curious, I even got a tattoo of a shamrock in one of those places where I shouldn't have been pinched. Isn't that cool? 
So beware tomorrow. We are giving you warning now, so that you may not mako a grave mistake as you dress tomorrow. Remember the green. 
The 11iews expressed in Scene Through Our Hyes are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

t. Patrick!! 


.... . 

page 14 xThe Observer• SPORTS Thursday, February 18, 1999 
¦ TRACI< AND FIELD 

Indoor championships crown five Irish All-AIIlericans 
By KEVIN THOMPSON formidable performance Notre Dame boasts !'iv,, track and field All-Amr. ri cans. i he 
Last weekend when most CSTCA pres1rnts tlrn honor to students were soaking up the the top eight unit,1d States ciL­ravs in Cancun. the Notre izens in carh event. Dime men's and women's Seniors Mike Brown and 
track and field squads were Antonio Arce wcr,1 named All­bP,tring down for the 1999 Americans in the pole vault NCAA Indoor Championships and mile events respectfully. in Indianapolis. Ind. Ju n i ors Joan n a Dee t11 r, The women finished in 32nd Jennifer Engelhardt and 
place and the men in 33rd. ~larshaun Wcsl were rnrog­The Longhorns of Texas were nizcd for performances in the t!w toast of Indianapolis. plac­5.000 meters, high jump and ing first. long jump. 
As a result of last wPekPnd's BrQwn competed in his firs( 
Sports W ricer 
¦ NBA 

Rodman leaves Lakers 
-
for personal reasons 
Associa1e<l Press 

LOS ANGELES Dennis Rodman remained on an excused. paid leave of absence from the Los Ange!Ps l.ak('l'S on Moi1day. A source close to Rodman said Ill' \Yasn't surr. when 'the seven­time NBA rebounding champion \\'Ould r('[urn to thn l!mm. 
."I don't know. I ran't addrf'ss that." thr source, who spokn on the condition of anonymit;.. told T!w Associat('d Pn'ss on Monday night. "He has some personal things he needs to deal with. He's addressing his problems and looks fonrnrd to returning and con­tributing to the team." 
When asked about a report that Hodman was seen gambling in Las Vegas on Sunday night, the source would only say, "He spent some time out of town. He's back in the Los Angeles arna." 
The Lakers confirmed Sunday that Hodman missed practkn the day before, and didn't travel with the team to Sacramento for Sunday night's game against the Kings -the opener of a six-· game road trip in nine d_ays. 
!\1eanwhile. ESPN reported Rodman was spotted playing black­jack at Caesars Palace on Sunday night. 
Citing privacy regulations. Phil Cooper, vice president of public relations for Caesars Palace, said the hotel doesn't reveal cus­tomer names. 
Rodman wasn't registered at the hotel early Monday afternoon. However. when the woman answering the phone at the Las Vegas Hilton Hotel was asked if Rodman was registered them, she replied. "All I'm showing is the reservation was canceled." It's known that Rodman has been a guest previously at that hotel. 
"There is nothing new today." said Tom Savage. assistant director of public relations for the Lakers. "He's on an excused leave of absence and he's being paid. [The leave] is indefinite. Ile told us he had some personal, non-basketball issues he needed to handle." · 
Savage said Lakers executives Jerry West and Mitch Kupchak would not comment on the matter. The source said the Lakers have been "real supportive," and Rodman was "very happy" with the team. 
"His absence has nothing to do with what's going on with the Lakers," the source said. "There am a lot of different rumors about different problems he might be addressing. However. I think it could be hurtful to speculate on them. 
"It's important he addresses them privately. lle's trying to wrestle with them and go on. Dennis does love to entnrtain. But right now, he needs some privacy." 
Lakers coach Kurt Rambis said Rodman informed him he would return to the team at some point. Rodman continues to earn his $12,195 per-game salary. 
The Lakers, 9-0 when Rodman has played and 6-7 wben lrn hasn't, lost at Sacramento 105-101 to snap their rn-game win­ning streak. They return to action Tuesday night at Minnesota. 
Rodman joined the Lakers last month after some three weeks of uncertainty, and is averaging 10.3 rebounds per game. 
ever Indoor championships. Also. on the men's side, nationals to post a thirteenth The senior l'inished lied !'or sprin ling sensation West in the high jump with a mark sixth overall clearing a 17-foet scorncl high marks at the or 5-fcet 8-inchcs. In 1997. 10-inch bar. The jump made Championships. WPst, who Engelhardt, as a freshman. Brown the Noire Dame record had qualiliccl for both th1~ 200 plac,~d ninth with a jump of 5­holder in tho polo vault. mnlcrs and the long jump, rcct 8-inches to receive All­Rrown was bested by a first decickd to con1:pntratn on lllfl /\mcrican honors the rirst place vault by Texas' Jacob long jump. l11 a satisfying dis­time. Erin Aldrich of Texas Davis of 19 foet 2 1/4 inches. play, W11st lnapPd to a s1~venth won the event with a jump of 
Senior Antonio Arce was placn finish boosting Uw men's 6-rcct 3-inchcs. also making his Indoor standings. Five All-/\merica honorees Championship df'but in For Ow wom1~11. DcP!Pr put are the most from Notrn Dame Indianapolis. The cross-coun­on a spnclacular porf'orrnance since 1997. That year sevnn try star. posted a time of with a timo ol' 16:10.H> in the Irish indoor tracksters were 
4:13.32. good enough for sixth 5.000 metnrs. Slw now holds honored including /\lien place. Earlier in his heal, Arce the Notrf' Danw record. Hossum. Jason Hexing and this ran to a 4:04.14 finish. Engnlharrlt rnadP a return to year's standout Engelhardt. 
N~ts can Calipari after 3-17 start 
Associated Press energy ancl it just didn't work Marbury was expected to lift out." the sagging team. He made a 
John Calipari was lirerl today /\ protngti of' Boston Cnlt.ics strong dnbut Sunday with 21 as coach ol' the New Jersey coach Bick l'ilino. Calipari had po.ints and five assists. but it Nets, a onc<i-promising tnam hncn givnn powPr to change thn was not nearly enough. that quirkly became one of the Nets l"rom a laughingstock into "We should look in the mirror NBA's worst this seasou. a winnnr. and madn some and sen what we can do," 
Thi> Nets, who traded for star progress. But the Nds 111wnr Kittles said. "This is a new guard Stephon Marbury four rediscovered the chemistry that start." days ago, have lust sovon mado th<•m onn of' !Im most Newspapers reported Monday straight games to fall to 3-17. exciting young f Pa111s in tlrn tho !'1!1~ts wern courting l'orrmir Only the Los Angelos Clippers lcagun Inst snason. although Chicago Bulls coach Phil (1-19) have a worse record. injurins hurl this yoar. Jackson to coach the team. 
The dismissal had been Thn problnms began on opnn­Todd Musburger, Jackson's expected ever since Calipari ing night when point guard Sam agent, has said he did not know met with team owners Finn Cassell snvcrnly sprainml his ii' Jackson was leaning toward Wentworth and Lewis Katz on a11klc. !IP rniss1!d all but two rr.turning to coaching next sea­Sunday after a 102-76 loss in gam1is al'tnr that and llw Nt)ts' son, as he has said in the past. Miami. Calipari didn't accompa­offensP sputlnrcd with Eric or sooner. 
ny the team to Toronto but trav­Murdock and later Doug Calipari, who helped turn eled there separately Monday Overton at tlw point. /\II-Star Massachusetts into a national and met bricny with the play­cenltir .Jayson \.Villiams has power as a collPgc coach, was ers. played witl1 a broknn nosn and hired by the Nets on .June 7. 
"I haven't really dealt with a hand injury. 1996, taking over one of the what I feel," said Calipari. who New .lr)rs11y mad1i tlw playoffs league's worst teams. The Nets also was fired as team vice for the first linw sincl' 1994 last had gone 30-52 the previous president. "I wish I had the season. Although llw N1)ts were two seasons under Butch Beard. opportunity to finish the con­swept by title-bound Michael In two-plus seasons as Nets tract. Jordan and the Chicago Bulls. coach, Calipari had a record of 
"If you're with a good group they played well. 72-112. After a 26-56 record in of guys, it's the best thing in the 'Tm proud that this organiza­his first season, he guided the world. But if you're with a few tion is now thought or as a legit­Nets to a 43-39 record last year. that are bad, it can be misery," imatn organization tlmt il's very "If this is the worse thing to he added, without specifying clos<) to boing big-time." happen to me and my family in the "bad" players. Calipari said. "In two and hall' our lifetime, I have been a very 
Calipari. in his third season vears, look where it is. Four or very blessed man," Calipari with the Nets, had two years five years ago IHI one wanted to said. "I came in as a college and $6 million remaining on his stay lrnrc and no onn wanted to coach and was given authority 
five-year, $15 million contract. come here. to turn around an organization, He was offered a consulting job "Now you've) got an organiza­to build a team that we wanted with the team. tion that's primed and set to on the floor. In short order we 
The Nets also fired assistant have success. and ii' it's not with got to the playoffs and it looked coaches Johnny Davis, Kenny me, I'm okay with that. I don't like things were going to be Gattison and Jack Haley. own the tnam. I accopt that. But bright, we hit a big bump in the 
Nets assistant Don Casey will I think in tlw end we changed road and could not overcome it, take over as interim coach, with the losing culture." and I'm disappointed in that." his first game Tuesday night With .Jordan's rntirnnwnt. the A low point came in his first against the Raptors. fie was the Nets were soon as a potential year, when he was fined head coach of the Clippers dur­succ~ssor as Eastern $25,000 -the largest fine ever ing the 1988-89 season and has Conferencn champions. They levied against a coach by the spent the last three seasons as feaLured an up-tempo style league -for calling reporter Calipari's top assistant. anchored by Knith Van Ilorn. Dan Garcia or The Star-Ledger 
"It's tough," Casey said. "Cal Williams, sl1ooti11g guard Kerry of Newark a "Mexican idiot" brought me in from Boston, he Kittles and Cassell. who was during a heated argument after worked very hard with high traded in the Marbury deal. a practice. 
The Observer accepts classifiecls every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. a1 the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid.
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces, The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for contrnr withom issuing rdt111ds. 
ble,$8-$12/hr  yard. AC, stove, refrig, W/D, G/D &  $6 HAIRCUTS  
NOTICES  promotional experience helpful.Contact: Kevin Leavitt  NICE HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND  0/W. $995/mo. 683-5038 or 232­4527  TICKETS  Vito's Barbershop 1523 Lincolnway West  
1·877-2clixcom,e·mail to  8,6,4,3 BEDROOM 2773097  Closed Sun. and Wed.  
How Green is Green?  kleavitl@2clix.com.  New 3·4 bdrom home lor lease  NEED GRADUATION  Mon,Tues,Thurs,Fri 8-4  
BED 'N BREAKFAST  Fireplace, family room, 2-car  TICKETS  Sat. 8-3  
Work m Ireland on a Student Work Abroad Program and find out!  ILOST & FOUND I  REGISTRY 219-291-7153  garage, 2 full baths. All deluxe appls. A/C $1200'mo. 232-4527 or 683,5038,  Call Kelly @ 243-8932 I need graduation tickets!  COUNTDOWN TO THE " LEWIS CRUSH ••  
Call 1 ·888·Council and ask for Tom.  Lost 100 CDs that were in a black CaseLog,c carrying case. Lost in  House For Rent 4·5 Bedroom Close to Campus  .___F_O_R_S_AL_E_ ___JI  ICallK;;;;~:AL  25 DAYS will YOU be invited?  
WANTED  LaFortune the night of 2/26/99. Monetary reward being ottered if  Includes: Dishwasher, Washer/Dryer, Fridge, Stove.  NEW Rates Phone Cards  ·  "Yeah [married couples] can quilt ­what ever happened to good quality  
found.  No questions asked.  Remodeling Kitchen in spring.  282 min. $20 call 258-4805  When you need copies ...  qullting?"  
Babysitter needed in my home.  Please call Brian at 4-1126 wl any  RENT REDUCED!  We're OPEN 1!!  
Flexible day time hours. Call 243•  info.  Call 289·4712  Steel bookcase. 7 shelves.  Call  "Oooh ­ feel the leather."  
5540.  246-1668  THE COPY SHOP  
Part lime on-campus  FORRENt  SUMMER SUBLEASE 1 bdrm Campus Vi!)W apt  Lafortune Student Center 631-COPY  Hey Joe K!  
promotional position. www.2Clix com, a start up web-site  WALK TO SCHOOL  Call Carrie @ 273-2989  Beautiful brass bed.queen size.with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe  Mon.Thur: 7:30am-M,dnight  And hey to his buddy, Scott T.  
for college students needs 6 on­ 2·6BEDROOM  Tri-level 3 bdrm house, H/2 mi.  frame.New.never used.still in plas­ Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm  Laura's 21 ! Laura's 21 !  
campus promoters to spread !he word about our site. 10-15 hours a week, fie xi•  STARTING $185 MONTH/PERSON 232-2595  from campus across from park with 1·1/2 ba<hs, family room with fire• place, 2-car garage, lenced·in back  t,c.$235 219·862-2082  Sat: Noon-6:00pm Sun: Noon-Midnight  And we're gonna party like it's 1999.  

page 15 The Observer• SPORTS Tuesday, March 16, 1999 

Notre Dame laxerates Denver and Air Force 
By TIM CASEY 
SJK>II< W, ircr 
TIH' !lH'll's latTossti tPam had a succ1iss1'11I spring hrnak, as it won all thn•cl gimu•s in which it playPcl, to impl'ilVI' to :l-1 on lh(\ stiason. Tlw I1Hh-rankt'd Irish liwd trp w tlwir high nxpc>dir­tio11s in vidoric,s ov1•r l>llllVtir, Air Forc1i and Villanova. 
TIH' Irish f'acPd ran• back-to­
b1u·k gamPs two wcnkcncls ago Tlw 17 goals scornd was Urn at homn to bngin tlin brnak. Thoy highest total by an Irish tnam ftdl behind against Dnnvnr 2-0 si11c11 Il)IJ7 when the Irish scored within tlw lirsL four minut,•s of 20 against Ohio Stalo. Fridav's contest. but. came buck Tom Glal,.el spcarlrnadml the to po;t an 8-:i lnad at tho half. Irish allack with a caroer-high 
Al'lnr half'ti11w, tlw ddPnsn !iv,~ goals and two assists, while shinrnl and dominatnd the third Todd Ulrich scornd Lwo goals qwtr!iir, holtli11g lknvcr score­along with three assisLs. Ulrich's less !'or over 20 minutns. Thn twin brothnr David addPd a goal Irish scornd Sl'V!H1 unanswtired and four assisLs. (;fmlknnpnr Kirk goals to lwgin tlw half' and never Ilow<'II madn his s,•cond earner look,·d hack in thn 17-9 victory. start and played solid, nllDwing 
Judicial Council 
..... 

Applications Available For '99-'00 Positions 
Vice President of Advocacy AND Vice President of Elections 
Beginning March 4., 1999 Student Government Office Application~ Due March 17 Interviews Start March 16 
Questions? 
Call Kelly Folks, President or Nicola Bol:'da, Vice President of Elections at 631-4556 
brought to you l>y, ~JuJiciaf Council 
six goals to go with Sl'V!'ll saves. Dcfiinst) was tl11l 
nanw or llrn gamo 
!'or tlw Irish in Sunday's victory ovnr Air Force. Tlw Falcons scorod tlwir last goal of llrn ganw wiLh I:2<) 1·cmain­i11g in tlw first quarlnr in a 1(1-2 Irish wi11. c;latzcl and David Ulrich 
con li 11 1w d tlw ir strong play with thre11 goals and two goals, rosrwc­
livoly. Brad Ownn chippncl in with thron goals f'nr tho victors. For his stnllar wcnknnd p!lrformancc of eight goals and two assists. Glatztd was 
named co-player of the week in the GnHtt Wesllirn Lacrossn J.cmgue. 
Assistant coach Jim Finlay was plnasnd vvilh his tl'am's pPrf'or­
mnncn. 
"That was a groat wnokond. I don't think Air Forco was as strong as usual but I think that Denver is a better team than usual. They've got a new coach and som1' good players." h11 said. "Both of them w1irn grnat wins for us hncausn l thought wo got 
. bcttnr each game." · Arter an intnnsn w1wk of prac­tice. the t.narn headed to Pennsylvania this past Saturday to takn on Villanova. The Loams wnro s,iparatNI by a closn two­goal margin al 9-7 in the fourth quarter, before the Irish stormed alwad with thrt)o goals by Chris Dusscau, Glatztd and John Fandinu. As has bnon tho casP all spason, GntZ<•I lcd tlw Irish with a hat trick. Dussnau added lhrno goals, whilci David Ulrid1 had livn assists for thn sncond straight ganw. Ilowell made snvnn saves in the 14-IO virtorv. Dcspitn the victory, Finl~y thought his tP.am struggl,~d against the WildcaL.:;. "Wn l'elt as though wn didn't play as w11II as we thought we could have. Wn still came away with a win and wo'rn pretty happy about that," said Finlay. The snries of victorins over tlw brnak showod the lrish's rnlianco on their younger players to con­tribute early in tlrnir earners. Gatzel, the Ulrich twins, dr.fense­man Mike Adams and midfielder Steve Bishko form a strong nucleus ol' sophomores who will lead the Irish for the next three years. These livn playnrs com­bine with a solid freshman class lo make tlw future look bright for ND lacrosse. Finlay had nothing but praisn l'or his group of' youngnr players. 

"In nach garn11 they g,1t moni oxpnrinncn and thny'rn going to g1~t slrongnr nach lime they go nut." lw said. "We knnw last year when wn playnd a lot of' young guys that wn were building for tlw future and I think that's alrnady slarting to takn placn." 
Thn ro11d donsn't gnt any nasi­er for tlw Irish coming up, begin­ning with a gamo against top ranknd Loyola (Md.) on Saturday. Coming into the sea­son, ninn of thn I:-1 opponnnts on thn sclmdulc wnrP ranknd ahovn Notre Damn. According to Finlay, instead of bning scarnd of' tlrn sclwdulc, the Irish lrnvP jump1\d at llw challnnge to makP a nanw for tlwmsnlvns. 
"Tlrnt's 1rn1 sonrnlhing wp'rp afraid of. il's somnlhing w,i lick our chops at. !'.very ganw is an important ganw and we haw Lhn ability Lo knock somnbody off and t·limh in thn rankings," said Finlay. "Wn're going 0111\ game at a limn and trying to bn b1itlcr than tlrn last timn wn wnnl out." 
Loyola is coming off an imprns­siv1' 15-5 victory ovnr pnrnnnial powerhouso .Johns llopkins 
which calapultrnl lhnm to thn top of th<' national rankings. Saturday's match-up rnrwws a big rivalry and sorvos as a diancn lo show that tlw Irish am national rontm1dnrs. 
"It's always a great rivalry with Loyola. I think the guys ani fired up lo play tlrnrn and prove that Notrn Damn is a solid Division I program." said Finlay, "Wn've got a lot or young guys playing right now but also a lot or young guys who can get tlw job dorm. I'm sum tlwrn'II lw a grn.at c~:cl\vd tlwr<'. \\'p're vPry oxc1tnd. 

The Alumni Association is hiring people who would like to work from June 2 ,1999 thru June S, 1999 for Reunion '99 You'll have lots of fun while you earn extra spending money!!! Please Apply at Student Employment at 336 Grace Hall or the Alumni Association at 100 Eck Center 


-----· 

¦ WOMEt.J'S LACROSSE ¦ GOLF 
Lady laxers are victorious in VA 
By GENE BRTALIK who thoy wanted to play Spom Writer against, and some of those highly competitive teams w11rP By encouraging her team to choosing to play Notre Dame 
use fundamen­
in scrim­

tals, Coach mages. " T h (1
Tracy CoynP was able lo William and

'THE WILLIAM AND 
Mary tourna­
inspire thr. 

MARY TOURNAMENT 
monl helped 

lacrosse t<iam HELPED US FOCUS ON OUT us focus on our games 
women s 

to two come-GAMES AND PROVIDED A 
from -behind and provided victories over GOOD TUNE UP. IT AlSO a good tune up. It also
Boston College SHOWED THAT OTHER TEAMS and Hichmond. showed that The more ARE NO LONGER TAKING US other teams are starting
exciting game LIGHTLY. was the second 

to recognize one against the [us] and are Spiders of TRACY COYNE no Ion ge r Richmond in HRAD COACH taking us 
which the Irish 

l i g h t I y. " (2-0) needed Covne said. 
double overtime to pull out On Wednesday· the team the victory. The hmm jumped travels to Gannon looking to out to a :3-0 lead in the first celebrate St. Patrick's Day 
half but foll behind bv the with an Irish victory. score of 9-5 early in the·third quarter. 
The Irish respondod to tlrn 
adversity by slowing the game 
down and taking control. 
Lael O'Shaughnnssy's firth 
goal of the game and 10th of 
the season put Notre Dame in 
front by a score of 12-11 with 
less than 30 seconds to play. 
Coach CoynP stressed that the 
team had to win the draw, hut 
unfortunately Richmond won 
the draw. ran down the field 
and put it past Carrie 
Marshall to tie tlrn game and 
force overtimrL 
The teams traded goals in 
the first overtime period and 
moved on to the sudden death 
overtime. In the second over­
time, the Spiders controlled 
the draw and worked the ball 
around the offensivo area 
until pressure by Kerry 
Callahan forced u Hichmond 
player to make a bad pass 
that was pick-Pd up by Mogan 
Schmitt. 
Schmitt passed the ball to 
Marshall who startml the ball 
down the sidelines. A 
Courtney Calabrcso shot went 
wide but Callahan picked it 
up. As she was checked, she 
passed the ball to Alissa 
Moser who found the back of 
the net and gave the Irish 
their first overtimr, victory. 
Three days earlier the team 
traveled to Fairfax. Va., and 
played Boston College in the 
season opener. 
The Irish came out sluggish 
early into the game, falling 
behind by the score of 4-2. 
The Irish ralliml though and 
headed into halftime with 6-6 
tie. 
The second half was all­
Irish as tlrny outscored the 
Eagles 7-3. The key to tlrn 
second half was that the team 
settled into its game and con­
trolled the tempo. 
O'Shaughnossy led the Irish 
with five goals, her last one 
• putting the Irish up 10-7, while Callahan chipped in with two goals and l'ive assists. 
"This was a huge win for 
us," said Coyne "Once we got 
over our nervous tendencies 
we settled down and ·our 
defense came up big." 
According to Coyne, a main 
reason .for the team·s sul'.cess 
in its first two games was its 
participation in two preseason 
tournaments. 
In those tournaments, teams played highly competive mini­games. One of the perks of' the William and Mary tournament is that coaches could choose 

Golfers enjoy spring success 
Kent leads men, Cooper sets pace for women over break 
By GENE BRTALIK  last spring. Kent shot a 5·  Northorn Illinois Snowbird  
Sports Writer  under-67 the first day, the best  Intercollegiate last week. The  
round by an Irish golfer since  tnam rebounded !'mm a rough  
Whiln most stucknts relaxnd  1%3.  opening first day and rnovod up  
during spring brnak. members  While Kent led the way, his  two spots to finish in 13th place  
of' the Notre Damn mon's and  teammates supported him with  with a total of 657 -four  
women's goll' teams drove balls  their solid play. Co-captains  _strokes behind K1\nl Univiwsity.  
down the fairways in hopes of'  Brad Hardin and Todd Vernon  Junior Both Cooper matclrnd  
garnering sonw awards for the  shot matching 153's whiln  lwr socond best 36-hole score  
Irish.  Connell added a 157 and Stnve  with rounds of' 76 and 85 for a  
Last w<wkend, the mon's  Hatay contributed with rounds  total of' 1(1 I. She was follow11d  
team capturnd Pighth place  of77 and 81 for a 158.  by tna111matns Andrea Kloe  
with a S99 in tlrn·Goldcn Ocala  Kent's win at the Golrlen  l lhl). Mary Klein (165).  
Invitational. Tlw 18-team. 54­ Ocala marks his second evnnt  Dani11llc Villarosa (171) and  
hole event was rncluced to :36  win this school year; he tied for  Bocca Schloss (179).  
boles after Sundav's session  first at the Iowa Intercollegiate  The l<\am also had impressive  
was rained oul. N·otrn Damn  in the fall with a :1-over-216.  outings l'rom Brigid Fisher  
still w1\nt on to beat Rollins  lie joins with Pat Mohan and  ( 162), Shann Smith (1 ()5) and  
College by three strokes and  Chris Dayton as the only golfors  Kristin McMurtrie (167), who  
Ohio University by one stroke.  to finish first into two events  all participat11d in the tourna­ 
Leading the way l'or the Irish  during the same academic  ment. as individuals.  
was senior Willie Kent who  year.  Thc team appeared to still be  
shot a 6-under-138 to capture  While Kent and his team­ struggling al'ter their previous  
first place. Krnt's undor-par  mates tore up the course, their  effort at the Midwest Classic  
round was th<~ lirst for thP Irish  female counterparts were in  wlrnrn thny finished 12th out of  
since t1mmrnate Jeff Conncll's  Tampa for the 23-team  13 teams for day onn's play.  

Observer Sports: We want you for production 

Tuesday, March l 6, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 17 
¦ HOCKEY 
Notre Dame falls on home ice in CCHA quarterfinals 
l\y TED BASSANI 'iporrs Wrircr 
Throughout this past season, Notre Dame lrnck!iy had onn nrnin goaL To earn a home ice advantago for tlw lirsl round ol' tho CCI IA playoffs. 
To ad1ieVP that goal, Llw Irish 1wNlmt II win in I.ho rngular sna­son finale, as wPII as a Northern Michigan lie or loss. Notre Danrn's 4-2 win nv!:r the Miami Hcd llawks. cnuplocl with Norllmrn Michigan's 5-2 loss to Michigan, gavl" hoad coach lluve Poulin and his team Lim school's first honrn ice berth sine<' 1982. 
Following a !mason in which the u~am lost jusl once al home, it socmcd incvitabl<1 that the Irish would makn their f'irst aµpemanc(1 at the CCI I/\ smnili­nals in Joe Louis /\rnnu sine,\ 1982. All Notre Damn needed to advancn in tho playoffs was to win two out of thrnc games against l'il'th-socdnd Northern Michigan, a tmuu the Irish had not losl to sinc1• tlw Wildcats rejoined thr. CCI Ii\ in 1997. 
But Notre l)amn's playoff dreams went up in smoke as lho Wildcats managed t.o ovcrconrn a 1-0 scrios dclicil I.Jy taking t.lrn linal two games on .Joyce Centt)r ice. 
In the first gamti, Notro Dam11 came out flying oarly as sopl10­more Dan Carlson's firsl goal in 15 ganrns gavo his team an narly ltiarl. J\l'ter stealing thn puck al llw Notre Dame blue lim\, Carlson strnuked down the right. wing boards past an NMU dof'cnsenrnn and into Urn offcn­sivn zonn. Carlson beat Wildcat goaltomkr Dan Hagusott onn­otHinn by going livo-holo to give tht\ Irish tlrn lead just 1:19 into the con lost. 
/\l'ter Carlson's goal, Notre Damn kt!pl thu pnissure on. Following a turnover al center ii:o, Irish captain Brian Urick managnd lo split NMU's del'enso at tlrnir blue line and beat llagusnlt with a high backhan­dor to givo Notre Dame a 2-0 
S'" Annual Soulh Bend Center for M<dical Educlltion Mini-M«lical S..hool Series 
Time, 7,00-9:00 p.m. 
Pla«:141 DcBortolo Hall (west of stadium) University of NO!ro Dame 
Join us for 6 infonnative evening~ as loading doctors and university & medical school professors discuss !he hottest topics in medicine today. Free ofcharge and open to the general public. 
S.S.ion I  Child Abu~ Rick Hoover, M.D. Tuesday, March l 6, 1999  
Session 2  Spirituality In Medidi,e Daniel Sulmasy, O.F.M., M.D., Ph.D. Tuesday, March 23, 1999  
Session 3  Hypertension Kenneth Olson, Ph.D. & Linda Hochstetler, M.D. Tuesday, March 30, 1999  
Sessl011 4  Making Health Ca~ Better: Medical, Ethical, Legal and Policy Perspectives Gary Fromm. M.D., Kevin McDonnell, Ph.D., John Robinson, Ph.D., J.D., and Rohen Beyer, F.A.C.H.E. Tuesday, April 6, 1999  
Session 5  Filmess for the Ages Paul Macri, M.D. & David Yugo, M.S. Tuesday, April 13, 1999  
Session 6  Recent Advances In Dentistry David Harris, DDS, John Harrington, DMD, MSD., Ray Hazen, DDS, MSD, PC and Charles Hassel, DDS Tuesday, April 20. 1999  

To rcgister,call (219) 631-7177 For more infonnation, call 63 l-5574 
L____ __ --­
lin;l period lead. 
Eventually the Wildcats responded. NMU managnd to tin the score with a first-period goal by Brad Frattaroli and a shorthanded goal by Tyson Holly at the end of' the second pt~riod. 
Following a tnmm third peri­od, Notre Dame's loaders came through in tlrn dutch to pull out the win for the Irish. With just over two and a half' minutes to go in the game, Urick sent a pass to sophomore Chad Chipchaso for a quick one-timer from the left wing. When Chipchase's shot rebounded to the right, Bon Simon was there to score the game-winning goal. 
In the waning seconds, Irish goaltender Forrest Karr pre­served the win with an acrobat­ic pad save to rob NMU center Brad Fratlaroli of a potential tying goal. 
After the game one win, tho Irish stood just onn home win away from the CCII/\ semifinals, but the Irish came out with their worst effort on homo ice all season. 
"We wcr1\n 't very good tonight at all, in every single aspect or the game," Dave Poulin said about his team's 7-1 gamo two loss, the worst home loss of his four-year tenure as head coach. 
The game began on a sour note, as the Irish committed the lirst of many turnovers in the defensive zone. Just 13 seconds into the game, Wildcat sniper 
J.P. Vigier pounced on the loose puck in the right circle and beat Forrnst Karr with a high slap shot. 
Tho Irish ontered the second period down by two goals, but things looked as if' they might begin to turn around. Early in the second period, Notrn Dame forced a turnover in the of'fon­sivn zone, and Ben Simon con­ve rt<)d sophomore Jay Kopischkc's pass into a goal, cutting the deficit to one. 
The Irish controlled tlrn game for the next few minutes. but worn unabln lo tin the gamr, whon Brott llenning's shot banged of'I' thn post to ker,p Northnrn ahead by a goal. 
From that point on, tho gamn unraveled before Notre Dame's eyes. as Buddy Smith's power 
¦ SPORTS BRIEFS 

Attention Martial Artists: Thn ND Judo Club, Martial /\rts Institute, Men's and Women's Boxing Club and Tai ChVKung Fu Club are planning a martial arts exposition tentatively scheduled for April 10 or 1l. If you would like to represent a martial arts style that is not represented by any of the above clubs, please contact Too at 4-3066 or spidertno@yahoo.com as soon as possible. Organizers are also looking for practi­tioners of aikido. karato and wrestling. 
play goal midway through tho second period turned the tide. What ensued was a four-goal onslaught and an embarrassing 7-1 defoat, forcing a third and clllriding game. 
"We had poor dnfensive zone coverage tonight," said senior Benoit r.otnoir. "Nortlrnrn Michigan cycled well on us tonight and they made a lot of plays with guys getting second chancos in front of' the net that cost us the game." 
As nxpected, the game thrne showdown began with both teams playing intense hockey in the defensive zone, and the game went scoreless through the first period. 
Early in the third period. how­ever, Northern used their dis­tinct advantage in the faceoff drclo to their advantage to open the scoring. After senior Brad Frattaroli won a draw in the Notre Dame zon11, NMU defenseman Tyler Barabonoff got control of a rebound in tho slot. I le slid a pass to the right wing cirde, which left wing Tyson llolly converted into tlrn game's first goal. 
The game entered the final period tind at one after Benoit Cotnoir scored Notre Dame's first and only pownr play goal of the series on a slap shot from the point. 
Early on in the third, Sean Connolly and Brian Urick each scored goals to make the score 2-2 with 14:23 to go. 
Then, just as it had donn in the opening minutns of game two, a defensive zone mistake by the Irish would lead to the game's deciding goal. Notrn Dame's dofonse failed in an attempt to clnar the puck around thn boards. Wildr,at l'reshman Chad Thmrnr found the puck bohind the net. lie then slid a pass in front to dcfenseman Tyler Barabonoff for his first goal of the season, the one that most likely will end Notre Dame's season; while Notre Dame could still scorn an at-large b1Hth for tlrn NC/\/\ playol'l'.<i, it is very unlikely. 
On Friday night at .loo Louis Arena, Northern Michigan will !'ace top-snednd Michigan Statn and Michigan will play Ohio Stal!1. 


¦ SOFTBALL 
Irish jump to fast start in break tournaments 
By MATT OLIVA Spom \Y/rit~r 
The Notre Dame softball team has survived the tough­est stretch of their schedule. 
After thirteen games in 10 days, the Irish come home with their best start in the last few years and look to build on their spring break perfor­mances. 
"Overall I think WH had a good trip," said head coach Liz Miller. "We played some excel­lent teams. and our offense was vt>ry good. Jlefensively we had some breakdowns and let games get away from us. Now we can come back and work on correcting those mistakes." 
The Irish competed in two tournaments: The Hillenbrand Invitational held at the University of Arizona from
-March 5 to 7, and The National Invitational Softball Tournament in San Jose from the 12 to 14. At the Hillenbrand Invitational. Notre Dame placed fourth with a 2-4 record. Both victories came against the L!niversity of Kansas. The first meeting was a 4-1 victory which gave sophomore pitcher Jennifer Sharron her fourth win. The Irish and the Jayhawks went to ten innings in the sec­ond meeting. l~reshmen short­stop Melanie AlkirP hit two humeruns to give the Irish the 6-4 victory and Sharron 
picked up her second win of the day. 
They were unable, however, to defeat the host team. The Irish suffered two losses to second-ranked Arizona, including one in the semifi­nals. Their other two losses came at the hands of Tt'xas Tech and LSU on the tourney's first day. 
In San Jose. the Irish fared a Jillie better with an overall 3-3 record. After dropping their first two games against UC­Santa Barbara and California, the Irish defeated North Carolina 2-1 Friday night. 
On Saturday, Sharron and senior Angela Bessolo both fired complete-game one-hit­ters as the Irish defeated Northern Illinois 5-0 and North Carolina 2-0. Sharron struck-out a career high l :~ batters in her victory against the !Iuskics. 
The Irish dropped their con­sol ati on game against 20th ranked Nebraska 6-0. The loss, in which the Irish man­aged only six hits, moved their record to 12-10 on the season. It is their best start since thn 1996 team started 14-10. 
Manv mistakes were a rnsult of Notre Dame's inability to practice outside during February. Every team the Irish have faced have been practic­ing outside since the beginning of the season. 
Coach Miller attributes most the early season success to the 
teams pitf'.hing and hitting. While Miller feels tlrnt the team gave up too many walks in the tournaments, she points to the quality of the pitchers and deep staff to be strengths for the team. 
Offtrnsivclv, the Irish have already dou.bled their home­run total from a year ago. Alkire, senior captain Kris McCleary and sophomore Lizzy Lemire have begun strong offensively. Miller 
expects them to continue hit­ting the ball well. 
The Irish will play five regional games before they begin the Big East season with an April 3 home opener against Pittsburgh. 
Notre Dame Women's Softball 
C:

3/23 at Purdue "C 3/27 Toledo n 03/28 Bowling Green 
3

3/30 Butler -· :::,4/1 at Illinois-Chicago 4/3 Pittsburgh '° (I) 4/5 at Eastern Michigan n 
:::J"'

4/7 at Western Michigan n, 4/10 at Rutgers 0. 4/11 at Villanova -C 4/14 Indiana (I) 
Oh~rver Gr..ptuc..JS1.;u1t l-1:udy 




Oe/!u,e~11f Tk f!cf_et;t Pizza.I 
@3©G:l~ ij[})@ @ . ©®lh lJ(!]@~cflru~gg 

12 Anytime Anytime
1l 12 


I 
you call between you call between 

10 


10:30-12:595:30 & 7:00, 
~ 
9 

the price of yourthe price of your 
2 large 1 
large 1 topping 

topping pizzas 
6 pizza is the time you call.

is the time you call. 

* Plus tax* Plus tax 
r-------------,
Lunch Special
1 1 1 Small 1 Topping 1 
I 2 Cans of Coca-Cola product I Saint Mary's/
ND store 
I $5.99 I
L _____________.JNorth Village Mall
271-1177 271-PAPA 

Tuesday, March 16, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 19 
¦ BASEBALL 
¦ WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Irish capture 'classic' victory 
ND serves up set of 
By RILL HART 
A.,sod.icc Spom Fdiror 
Whiln most studnnts s1wnt tlrnir spring break gelling away from tlrn daily grind, membnrs of Llw Notni Damn baseball tnam usnd tlrn wmik lo participaln in tlw lil'th 111111ual Irish Basl'ball Classic, a cornnrstmw sllries of tlw S<fuad's sdwdull'. 
llnld in San Antonio. TPxas. thn tounrnnwnl gnv1~ the team a chance! to l10nn its skills bHf'orP Big East comp(!tition. Tho Irish put Uw ganws lo good wm, win­ning four straight and taking thn championship. 
While Irish bats wnnt 011 an off1\nsiv1) sun.:11, pitching gav11 the tc\lllll the dncisivn edgn throughout tlw wonk. 
In tlrn opm1ing 6-:~ victory ovnr l',•rm State on W,1d11csday. junior ldlhandcir Tim Kalita matclw<l a c:arm~r high wilh 10 strikmml-.; in l'ight innings. 
After both sides scornd two nms nach in Urn lirst, tlw Irish took an 1•arly lead al'tc'r a one­out hunl singl,• and stol,m IHISI' by !h\shman l'.t'lll(\l'linlder StPvn SLanl.-y. BookiH third basnman Andn•w BuslH1y f'ollow1'.rt with a walk whiln a singlo by ,\lnr l'oz<'I hroul{hl Slanhiy honw. 
NotrP l>anw put thc> gamn away on a thn•n-nm sixth, whirh inrluclPcl a two-run doublr hy junior ldllinldrr ,Ji;ff Frlknr and an oppositn-lil\ld sing!<• by first hasP111an l\latl Strirkroth. 
On Thursdav, Notr<1 llam11 fat·Pd Cniighlo;1, who def'Pat11d tlH• Irish 8-!i lo clai111 the 1'JIJ7 Classic. /\aron IIPilman put on a tr1•rn11nc!ous show, tossing 11 strik1·outs and posling tlw lirst complrtc garrw of his car'c<'r But it was the olfonsP that providnd tlw drama, rallyi11g for f'our runs in tlrn c•ighth and 01w in llw ninth to pick up the :i-4 victory. 

Stanlny startc1d Llw offons,i oncci again in tlw eighth with a bunt singln, f'ollowocl by a singlo by Bushey and an attmnptcd sacrifice bunt by Porznl down tlrn third-basn lino. Crnighton Int tlw ball rnll for a bases-loaded situation with 1rn nuts. 
.Junior shorlslop l>rant Ust thPn hit a doubl<' to ccmt,•r fkld to scorn two nms, l'ollowcid by two succnssiw sacrilico 11ins to tin thn gaml'. Tlw Irish won ii in tlw ninth on a single by l'orzd. 
Thank to llnilman·s perfor­mance in tho first game on Crnighlon, hn was named tour­nam1~nt MVP. Four otlwr play­ers, Stanley. Porznl. Bushey and Kalila, joined him 011 llrn 1:1­playm· all-lourn1mH•nt team. 
"I knew Creighton was a good tnam," llnilman said. "My mind­s,•t going into llw gamn was just 
1.o try to gd tlw t<)am to win and krnip thnm closn nnough to rally wlrnn llwy did." 
But thn Crnigliton win was not tlw only rally of I Im wenk. as Notrc' Damn pul!Pcl a (:011111-l'rom­lwliind vir.tory against St. Mary's (Tnxas) on hidav. 
The gam£i ~vas scornless through s1wPn wlwn tlw Irish scored thrn,i runs. Thn Hattlnrs liod tlie game with two runs in tlw sevnnlh and 011P in tlw 11ighlh. but righthandor Drnw Duff shut tlw visitors down lo earn tlw first win of his C'.arnnr. 
In Uw bollom of llw inning, junior rightfiPld11r .Jnff l'erconl.o drPw a leadoff walk in th,1 eighth. tlwn moved Lo second on a bunt by Stanley. Bushoy advanced llw runnnr with a 
wins over break 
grou11rlout and PorzPI drnw a walk before Ust dclivcrnd a hit into right linld. scoring Perconto. 
Thn win loci to a championship rematch Saturday against Croighton. who beat Penn Statn to adva11c11 t.o tlrn titln ganrn. Thn Hlw•jays ran out or gas, lwwev­nr. falling S-:{ to givo Lim Irish tlrn victory. 
Tlw hosts got all the offellS(·1 tlwv 1wndml in a three-run first i1111°i11g, l'ollownd by one run in tlrn sncond to put tlrn gam1i away. In tlrn second, f'roshrnan Paul O'Toolc hit a lcudofl' double to doPp cont11r licld which sopho­morn rightfinlc!Pr Ben Cooke fol­lmwcl by an atlnmptod sacrifice h11nt. Slltnloy then hit a ground­out to scorn the ovontual gamo­wirnwr. 
Crnighton nrndn things intcr­nsting with a one-out, bascs­lmulml situation in tlw top or tlw ni11th. l~ut tlw Blunjays wcm only t1bl<1 lo gd one run across bcli1rc junior righthandcr John Corbin ParnPd his s1w.ond savn ol' thn soaso11. 
With Uw tournament. the Irish raisn tlwir winning streak to livo ga11ws and improv,1 their rncord to <J-(1 on tlw season. Thn tnam will 1·P1um lo artion on Saturday wlu111 they travd to Morgantowi1 to start Urn Big East scmson with a lhrP1\-ganrn series against Wnst. Virginia. 
"Wc•'v1\ play11d sonrn pretty tough ganws against some pretty tough t.£•ams, but wo'vn managncl lo romp togtitlwr as a tnam and grow slrongnr. I think we're road:,•." IIPilman said. 
State only made it harder for us," said Louderback. "Soon, we'll have some more oppor­tunities to play outside, to prepare \IS for Miami." 
Miami is this year's site of' the Big East Championships. If Notre Dame hopes to com­pete with the lik(lS of Syracuse and Miami, the players will need to get used to the different conditions. 
''Our whoh1 team was down, and we just couldn't get in a groove. The combi­nation of thtl sun and wind made it hard for us to ad,iust. It was really disappointing going down there f'or a week and not getting a win, but we'll just come back stronger," said freshman standout Varnum, who was the recipient or a 6-1, 6-1 drubbing by ASU's Kelly Giardino. 
The Sun Devils won livB of six singles and swept the doubles for the win. Hall won at No. 2 singlos for the only point for the Irish. llall beat Karin Palme 6-2. 6-2 at No. 2 singles for her second win of the year over Palme after also beating her at the Riviera All-American Championships in the fall. 
Arizona State won f'our sin­gles matches in straight sets. including an exciting win for 64th-ranked ·Allison Bradshaw, a 6-4, 7-6 (4) win over 11th-ranked Michelle Dasso at No. l singles. 
The Sun Devils also won a three-set match at No. 3 sin­gles, with Katy Propstra pre­vailing over Marisa Velasco. Notro Damo held leads at both Nos. 1 and 2 doubles but let both slip away in 8-6 losses in addition to an 8-2 loss at No. :1 doublns. Arizona State improves to 5­4 following the win. 
Notre Dame finished the week off in style, though, coming back strong and dof'oating Kansas, 8 matches to I. 
The senior llall improved to 12-2 in dual matches with a 7-6 (4), 6-4 win over Brooke Chiller at No. 2 sin­gles. Dasso heat Kansas' 15th-ranked Kris Sell 6-3, 3­6, 6-4 at No. 1 singles. Velasco and Varnum won straight set matches at Nos. 3 and 4 singles for the Irish. 

Kelly Zalinski held  on  for  a  
6-3, 2-6, 7-5 win  at No.  5  
singles for tho Irish.  

Kansas' only point came when Lisa Mallaiah rallied t.o boat Kim Guy 4-6, 6-0, 7-5 at No. 6 singles. 
The sixth-ranked doubles team of Dasso and Hall boat 33rd ranked Sell and Mallaiah 8-3 at No. .I singles. The teams or Varnum and Velasco and Groen and Zalinski also won for Notre Dame. 
Next up for Not.rn Dame is the University of Iowa on Saturday at 11 a.m. The Hawkoyes como to South Bend playing well of late, corning ofT a big win over the Illini. Thn Irish will lHWd to be a.t their best in order to put another W in the win column. 
St. Patrick's DaY Party 



Wed., March 17 at Reeker's 8-10 pm 


Live Irish Music by Doc Brown 
Fr'ee Food! Ga..-.es anc1_ 

By WES JACOBS 
Sporn Wdter 
The Not.re Dame women's tonnis toam won two or thrMi lopsidocl dual meets over spring hreak, beating Wake Forest. 7-2 and Kansas 8-1. and losing to Arizona State 8-1. ln the process, tho Irish improved Llrnir overall record to ninn wins and five losses, and upped the team's national ranking from No. 16 
to No, 14. 
"We feel good about the wlrnk. We had some really good wins." said All­American sonior Jen Hall. "Beating Wake Forest was great, and so wa.s Kansas, nspccially sincn wo lost to them last year." 
Despite the uneven com­plexion of' the meets, a closer look would show that each of the three could have gone to eithor loam. 
Against No. 9 Wake Forest last Saturday, the score was th rne malchos to two in favor or the Irish with one singles match left. New to the rotation was Kim Guy at No. 6 singles, and sho had tho pressure of maintaining the Notrn Dame lead against Lna Miller before the doubles matches. After seeming poised to end the match, up f'ivo games to thren in the third and linal set, Guy near• ly gave Miller the opportuni­ty to tie everything up. Miller came back from 5-3 down, saved a match point at 5-4 and thrne more match points at 6-5 lrnforn Guy closod out tho match for a 4-2 Notre Dame lead. 
"Kim's match really gave us momentum. Things could have b<'en much different going into the doublos tied at thrne, instead of' being up 4­2," said Coach Jay Louderlmck. 
Following hc!r tonse win, the Irish fod off the energy and swept the doubles matchos, with Michelle Dasso and llall clinching the win with an 8-3 win over Janet Borgman and Mariel Vcrban at No. 1 doubles. Becky Varnum and Marisa Velasco tlwn rallied from 0-3 and 1-4 to bnal Maren Haus and Carolinn Ullring 8-5 at No. 2 doubles. KPlly Zalinski and Lindsey GrPnri f'inishnd off the No. 9 Demon Deacons, beating Jackie llouston and I.ea MillAr at No. :-l doubks. 
The last limn Notre Dame bPat a t1!am ranked higher than ninth camn in 1996 whon the Irish edged fifth­runked Ttixas 5-4. 
Following the improssive win, Notre IJa,mp traveled to sunny Arizona, where the team played in ils first nut­doors match of thn year. Thn Irish strugglnd all day against a strong Sun Devil tnam. Following the frustrat­ing 8-1 loss, players and coaches agrned that playing Arizona State indoors could havo been a different story. 
"Our first outdoor llHLlch is usually a tough onn. Playing as good a tna.m as Arizona 

Prizes! 

The Observer: 
Sponsored by the Student Activities Office 
Accept no imitations. 
+ Campus Ministry This Week + 








I 
I 
OFFICE OF 
CAMPUS MINISTRY 
103 Hesburgh Library: 631-7800 

_, 
112 Badin Hall: 
631-5242 
Basilica Offices: 
631-8463 
Web Page: 
http://www.nd.edu/-ministry 

Continuing through the week so March 15 103 Hesburgh Library, 112 Badin Hall, or see your rector 
Freshman Retreat #22 (March 26-27) Sign-Up 
Targeted Dorms: Alumni, Farley, Fisher, Howard, Keenan, Morrissey, O'Neill, Pasquerilla West, St. Edward's and Walsh 
Beginning Monday, March 15 103 Hesburgh Librar¼ 112 Badin Hall, or see your rector 
Freshman Retreat #23 (April 9-10) Sign-Up 
Targeted Dorms: Badin, Breen-Phillips, Keough, Knott, Lyons, Pasquerilla East, Stanford, and Welsh Family 
Tuesday, March 16, 7:00-8:30 pm, Badin Hall Chapel 
Campus Bible Study 
Friday-Saturday, March 19-20, Fatima Retreat Center 
Marriage Preparation Retreat 
Friday-Sunday, March 19-21, Sunset Lodge 
"El Retiro" Students Retreat 
Saturday, March 20, 10:30 am-5:30 pm, South Dining Hall 
No Greater Love 
A Notre Dame day of prayer, music, and renewal. A spirit-filled gathering for students led by Fr. Michael Baxter, C.S.C. and nationally-renowned musician Dan Consiglio. Students will also be able to choose from several breakout sessions led by dynamic speakers from around the Notre Dame community to learn more about different aspects of their faith. 
Sunday, March 21, St. Joe Hall 
Notre Dame Encounter Team Retreat #56 
Sunday, March 21, 10:30 am, St. Augustine's Church 
Rejoice! Black Catholic Mass 
l I 
Tuesday, March 16, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 21 
¦ FENCING 
10 Irish fencers qualify for championships 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
A,sociatc Sport~ Edimr 
In thn most pressure-pucked nwet to date. the Notre Dame fonccrs showed no signs of stress ns !lrny qualilkd the maximum IO fen en rs for tho NCAA Championships. 
Thn wonwn's team is rnpre­snnted hy familiar f'acns ·as all four qualifiers wern All-Anrnricans last ynar. 
"11 aving tho !'our of' us fonce again, knowing how we fence, is good f'or Urn tnarn," junior epneist Magda Krol said. "It will make up for some ol' the new­conrnrs on tho men's side. It is diflicull for newcomers to loarn tho systnm, so our expnrinncn should make up !'or that." 
Krol and Nicole Mustilli both contimwd tlrnir excellent seasons 

Junior epeeist Magda Krol (right) qualified for the NCAA Championships to be held in Waltham, Mass. 
rr;--· .....  Come see them on ca~pus at:  
~  Notre Dame  
~  OIT Solutions Center  
t  112 Computing Center Math Building 219.631.7477  

= 8:00 am-5:00 pm QJ Monday through Friday 
..d
..... 
QJ QJ rl;; 
"O 
= 
E ~ 
Q.-c 
Sa 
r;l"j 
r\u1hori1.~d lk,dk·r 

for the Irish as they linishml sec­oml and first respnr,tively on the weekrmd. 
Mustilli, the senior captain or the squad, led the tcmm in victo­ries with 73, coupled with only 11 losses. Iler .869 winning per­centage is fifth all-time for a sin­gle season. She finished her career with 230 career epee wins, good for that category's all-time second best. 
Recently, Mustilli captured first place at buth the Midwest Intercollegiate Conference Championships and tho NCAA Midwest Qualiliers. 
Krol, a junior, is making her third appearance at NCAAs. She earned second team All­American honors as a sopho­more following her freshman campaign in which she captured the epce individual champi­onship. Krol finishod second on the team in victories with 55 and currently stands in third placn in career epeo wins. 
Kiersten Ferguson made a strong showing finishing 11th. 
Myriah Brown and Sara Walsh both qualilied as foilists by post­ing lil'th and fourth place finishes respectively. Brown and Walsh have now qualified for four straight NCAAs and havo earnod All-American honors in three previous trips. 
Brown had 71 victoriPs 011 the year. Iler 291-carnor roil wins easily surpassod Mindi Kalogera's previous record of 248 to vault her into first place. 
Walsh's 45 wins and single defeat on tlrn year gave her a .978 winning perceptage. She raised her car<wr winning per­centage to .970, second ,di-lime. · 
Gina Couri and Nicole Paulina both closed ouL succesHl'ul earners 'with ninth and eighth place linishes respectively. 
Paulina captained tho 1991) foil team and linishecl the yrmr with 64 victoriris. Iler 216 career wins placed her lifth in foil wins. 
Senior captain Stephane Auriol and junior Charles llayes quali­fied for the men's foil team. Auriol has qualified for the past Lwo NCMs but has yet to earn 

All-American honors. Auriol's 44 wins on the year raised his earner record to 154­
53. lie linishos his Irish career tied for ninth on all-time wins list. 
I layes had his best weekend or the year, Mrning second place in tlrn foil championship but just missing the title in a loss to Wayne State's David I luynh in a fcncn-off. 
James Gaither continued to shock the fencing world as he capturnd his second first-plac,i finish in as many wnnks. Gaither and frnshman Brian Casas, who finished snconrl. will represent the Irish at the NCAAs. 
All-American np1rnist C..J. Jackson saw his excellent earner come to an mid as Ile finished fifth . .Jackson closes his carnnr with In wins, lif'th all-time. 
Luke l.aValle qualified to 

-
<lcfond hb 1998 sabre title by finishing rourth at the Midwest Regionals. IIn will face som11 of his stiffest competition rrom teammate (iabor Szr,lle, who lin­ished lirst at tho Hegionals. 
LaValln l'inished his Irish earner with 200 wins, sncond all­timc. Szello's 56 wins this season arc tlw fourth-most-ever bv an Irish sabnmmn. • 
The NCAA Championships will bo held this w1mkond at Brand1iis in Waltham, Mass. The Irish last won the championship in 1994 at Brandnis. 
The Irish am confidnnt that limy can re.turn to the top this year wilh a win over Ponn State. 
"We have improved since the last time we faced them," Krol said. "Wn have had tough dual meets and good competition that hav_e caused us to improve." 

Yum. 
-
Choose from Strawberry, Blueberry, Tangerine, Grape or Lime. PowerPC G3 processor, 6-gigabyte hard disk, 32 megabytes RAM, 56K modem. 
-
Your special student price $1,135 
..
© 1998 Apple Computer; Inc. All rights resen•ed. The Apple logo is a registered traderruirk and l'lfac is a trademark of 
Apple Complller, Inc. Power PC is a trademark ofIBM Corp. 

·--------------------------­
Coaches 
continued from page 1 
"I can't even think about that now," Majerus said. "If some­body asked me to pick between heavnn and hclL I'd choose heaven, but a job of'for is the last thing I'm thinking about." 
Majerus has close tics to the Midwest. Ile was born in Sheboygan, Wis., and coached al Marquette University and Ball State. Ile has averaged 26 wins per season over the last nine years. 
Other names on the list are top Duke assistant Quin Snyder. Florida coach Billv Donovan and Xavier coach Skip Prosser. 
Athletic director \1ichaeI Wadsworth hopes to find a coach within three weeks. 

-
"At -this time, I would hope to be able to name a successor at some point prior to the spring signing date {April 7]," Wadsworth said. "In the mean­
time, I do not expect to com­ment on any as1rnct of the hir­ing process until such time as we are prepared to announce a new head coach." 
Irish players are also eager to hear the news. 
"We're pretty anxious," junior Jimmy Dillon said. "I think whoever they bring in is going to be a good coach. The list that they've put out is a 

Who do vou want 10 see as the next men's baslletbaltcoach? Paxson? Maierus? Allord?·,calipari? Write to 
irr ii:, ·· ..,,,.:tr: 
the Observertand tell us. 
Foik Nominations Invited 
The Reverend Paul J. Foik Award Committee invites nominees for the award, which is given annually to a library faculty member who has contributed significantly to library service to the Notre Dame com­munity or to the library profession through personal scholarship or involvement in professional associa­tions, The award is named for the Holy Cross priest who served as director ofNotre Dame's library from 1912 to 1924 and was a leading figure in the library profession in the first quarter of the 20th century. It is among those announced at the President's faculty dinner in May. Previous winners have been Maureen Gleason, Deputy Director; Robert Havlik, Engineering Librarian emeritus; Joseph Huebner, Head of Collection Development emeritus; Rafael Tarrago, Latin American Studies Librarian; Janis Johnston, 
Associate Director, Law Library; Charlotte Ames, American Catholic Studies Librarian, Dwight King, Jr., Head of Research Department, Law Library, and Stephen Hayes, Business Services Librarian. 
All members of the University Libraries' and Law Library faculty with two or more years' service are eligible. Please send names of nominees, including a letter or other supporting documentation, to the Reverend Paul .I. Foik Award Committee, c/o Professor Harvey Bender, 239 Galvin Life Sciences, by March 26. 

____________________________,_____.:____ 
V<ery good list, I think whoevPr Tro,v Murphy, David Grnvt\s thoy bring in the succ11ss f'or and llarold Swanagan have him in tlw past will hopnf'ully loads or talent and Martin come here, llopel'ully he'll lngclsby has nxperinncn at adapt to us and w1•ll adapt to point guard. With tlw addition him and we can start winning ol' scoring swingman Matt some gamns." Carrnll. who has not wavered 
Prosser has won at least 20 in his d1!dsion to c:01111• to Notre gamc,s in his first f"ivc seasons Danw. and at Xavier and has accumulatNl p o s s i h I y a 118-57 nxord. nnollwr ccn­
Wl1en the '.\J(\W Jt\rscy Nets tcr. tliP new fired lrnad coach John Calipari. conch will another name flew into tlw have a f'ull _-,y growing ring of' rumored candi-cfock. dates. Calipari had quite a run H(1ga rd !Pss at UMass before being drawn tu ol' who will the NBA. After struggling with roam tlw . , · .:1-j_ 
Urn Nets, he may bn ready to .loyl'.(' C1)11tcr . · ·· · 
~~:~fI:fA!H)}}§~IE~ [;(I}:;\['.t~·:i;r1~1lt::i11:rf.·.• 
his couching career any where more than his alma matnr'? A[.t£~1· tl11·s se,·•s<>n's c,·,1cle1·<'.-ll,·t
. •. . run, Southwest Missouri Stat<\'s 
St Alf I "JI bbl I 
. eve · ore wt pro a y JC looking to take a dive into a 
b. 1
1ggcrµoo.Along with tho plethora nl' 
nam11s there aro also plenty of' 
t~~ri~i7.rnt~~-~~~~'.11~~:~-!)~~~:~ State, Vanderbilt, Baylor and 
Iowa will all be looking for nPw coaches next year. 
Regardless of' the new coach's name, he will discover that Macl.eod left the Irish r.upboard loaded. 
Geometry 101: Ratios 
7t=3 .141592 65 Double Slice Pizza=$1.99 
The ratio of the circumference of a Fazoil's pizza to its diameter is delicious. And getting one is as easy as pie. 
Just dine in, carry out or drive through for Double Slice or a whole pie. 

RealItalian. RealF;t.• 
52770 US Route 33N, 277-4008, South Bend 317 W. McKinley, 255-2551, Mishawaka 1248 Nappanee Street, 262-9873, Elkhart 

nnds · ', ,,;·~-,,.,,:~. ',. ,',~,·~•-• · 
.;.h,: time to .._'-•, ·-~-~-:~,/1f~_:·>· ~. · ,:·· ·· 
· k, · , ; ,;',-: :,,,,!,fi,' ·c,:,•: '.'.,-·,.:·, -· ' ' 
m.t 1 .i move , , .I·,.•-i~·-, ;,,,1.·., , 
is now A . _.: ·.+;•,·.:'h'.~i~f~,':·.,:. ,,., ', _ ­
. , r I 1.",",,,,(L'i''}111>.1''1 1;·,,~:,~··1 .:,.,1. ~.
µ1ov1 n, gooc ,. ,1.,,,,1.1--,'.,JJ·•~·\,,:, •,, t::,.,.,,,, , 1. , _1,,1 rnal"l1 rnuld ,;:~,)?f}';•;·,qt:1'\1, ,T-a'"Eortu•n."e f('ft'udent Center
k I · ' ~ ' . ,,~,, '•"'(I' 1":.L 0
ta <'L11sl!1am t,!,.{ -!1/:1 111,,1~}:i;Iif',"•''':,;,,:.•(,.1 , . 1 :i,,1,,.," "~•·,\ ,, to llw NCAA 1}1\:J ·r')W1;rtif-,tlt:'!l11,1,,;,,,')1.'·:·\: ':i• ,r:. :ir iP.ii 'f . ,
1
1

-~ 1 t... l1-a.','i1~·~ 1 •.,1111~·~.r1'· l'f'r , 1 1!~,1' 1~,I 't , ,
I o LI r ll illl11' 11 t i:,i•u il'l~,"l,1•t1,,:'i•, -'.iq,: ,,_,'l.i-,, !:; •, ', ~'.'· ,\, •I 1 '~:I , i · , , , , .
,'\; nlr.\r··tr; 1) 1 1•1 1) :t-itHll ~.-~-~ ~11 1 I .•~
~ Jl•l~t-l~"l.jl 1
~\~,, 'J\;-(~~ -(\l; (l\!, ;,f::j[H1\¥-J,,~:l~-~Q'j,(a~f)o is/iip all ))Olli' packages, 
• f:'!J•'li~<:! ~· ~• ;\ l ii.~~~ '-s~~ltl:r~t· ·. •,tl ~l~" lt' · · · · ., ~• 
s_Pason, \.\'Ith a 1·~il'. .,~r-_:\:i f•coii'veiiientfy.focated in the center ofcampus.
iittll' lul'k 1wxt s1•aso11. Tlrnn !'ans 
will lw talking 
about Notre Danw's run in 
·, , . •· • 
NEW HOURS!!!/!/!!! 
·Hours: M&W Noon -2p111; 
3pni-6pm T; Th lla111-6pm Fri 1' {{ .., Noon-6pm 
Sat Noon-3pn1 
C,ome visit uk and let us take .care ofall your shipping! 

1
,:.:f 
~;~~:ri~~~t•· 

-~------------------------
Lim NCAA Tournament, talking 
Thorn am plenty of options. about what kind ol' s<ied the Only time will t<•II ir Notre Irish will get in the !\CAA 
Dame makes the right one. TournamPnt instnatl or doing 
In the meantime the anticipa­tlrn math to find out if' tlw pos­
tion and those discussions will sibility of NIT t>ligibility. 
bo almost as fun as watchingNotrn Danw is on tlrn vnrgn of' the Swe11t 16. 
that. 

-'1• '1 • :fi'. :· • 11· 
,.
Room 023 


Tuesday, March I 6, 1999 The Observer• TODAY page 23 
SLURRED SPEECH DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 


CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22l: DAY: Joan Crawford, Chaka Khan, Changes in yuur position ilrt' Jpp,1r­Marty Allen, Moses Malone, Ric ~•11t, It is hl•t-t to move> with tlw tinw.., Ocasck, Amanda"!'lumnwr rallwr than putting up a luss. Your Happy Birthday: You will have new 10b will give you rnorc cn.>atf\ t' plenty of opportu1.1ities1 but )'OU must frec,;.>dom. Make alteri1t1ons to you, be able tri recognize th~rn if you anl unagc. 00 going to take advantage uf them. You LIBRA (Sepl. 23-0cl. 22): Visit must slow down in order to sec tlu.~ friends if you get llw i:hancl'. Know! whole picture. Your courage, coupled edge will b,· easily rdaincd. Sii;n "I' w,th your ability to take on a mulli­for lectures thJ( will not <1nly int,·r,•st tude of tasks. will lead you to the you but furtlwr y()ur car~er Jin....di\lll winner's circle. The podium is yours, JS well. Gel cn•alivt> with hohh1t.•.., so be prepared to step up to it. Your 00000 numbers: 8, 14, 22, 29, 35, 45 SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): \'"u ARIES (March 21-April 19): You may w;mt to makl• changf's to imair have an unreal assessment o( yuur anr(I policiei-nr otht'r pt.1 rson.1I docl1 surroundings. You need to talk to ments. You can make a litllt! cxtr,1 someone who can help you rerogntze money through investments. Limit,, the problems you face at home. You lions will be du<' to changes. 000 musl try to solve domestic disputes SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22•Oec. 2Jl: reasonably. 0000 Don't take chanrcs. You may risk tlw TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Your most important thing in your Iii,• emotions will be ull.'ltable due to triv­Your partner has just about had ial matters. Do not overreact to finan· enough and will be prepared to wall­cial situations you can do nothing if you don't slraightcn ou1 ynur about. Put your efforts into ways that affairs. 000 you can eam extra cash. 000 CAPRICORN (Dec, 22-Jan. 191: GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your You can present your ideas and c,­lover will be able to make you angry pecl to have them well-received Ill· with little effort, You must ignore the day, Your originality will be admm,d commenls and busy yourself with and supporl will be iorlhcoming activities that will relax you. Go for a Advancement is in the offing. 000 massage afler work. 000 AQUARIUS (Jan, 20-Feb, 18): Y<'II CANCER (June 21-July 22): Think will en1oy getting together with before you act. You have someone friends Don't be surprisl'd if a friend· around you who may not be telling ship turns into c1 serious connertin11 you the truth, Minor accidents will You should look intn educational ptu • occur if you are careless or preoccu­suits 1hat will further your position pied. Don'I get taken !or granted. 00000 000 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 201 LEO (July 23-Aug. 22), Try 10 Friends or children may cosl ro,, avoid gambling or taking unneces· dearly. Self-deception may be an issu, sary financial risks. Travel will be if you refuse to look at the whole /,i' exciling, but be prepared to spend lure on the home frnnt.. You wil [,, more th,,n you had planned. Career vulnerable and easily taken for gr,1111 moves will be positive. 0000 cd.00  
• OF INTEREST Trumpet and organ recital in the Basilica ­Guest r Vincent· DiMartino, trumpet, and Notre Dame faculty ,member Craig Cramer, organ, will present a concert March 18 at 8:30 p.m. In the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. The program includes works by Schmidt, Handel, Torelli, Nelhybel and Ravel. The concert is f'ree and open to the public. Please call 631-6201 for more infomation,  
THE SPORTS DEPARTMENT NEEDS PRODUCTION STAFF! GET PAID TO READ ABOUT IRISH SPORTS BEFORE ANYONE ELSE!  

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
Punte by Randall J. Hartman 

FOXTROT 
Wtto l<EEPS DR,&,W1N& 
THESE A.NiENNAE ON BEETLE BAILE'Y? 
\ ,----:::: 
r . 

DILBERT 
~-----------'------~'--....JIE.:IM.:......I.L.......L~-JJ,;,L-L;..;:...JL---IML..J.:%..~..,I..-....LL..........J:..:....~.1..1....r......~­


DoUBTLESS THE SAME PERSoN WHo'S 8EEN OAAWINC-, SHELLS ON WE KIDS IN "PEANUTS," 
I 
u ),, 


THE 
OA'< RI.FL£ 
AND LACES ON TI-IE B1RD tlll"SHoE.'' 

52 Golden Delicious and others 
54 1966 Simon and Garfunkel hit 
59 High school parking lot fixture 

61 Religious law 62 Soho socials 63 Responsibility 64 Blackjack 
phrase 65 Flubs 66 Sage 67 Run off 10 the 
chapel 
DOWN 
1 Exile site for 
Napoleon 2Christmas 3 Speake~ of 

Cooperstown 4 Cube inventor Rubik 5 Brief turndown to an invitation &Oklahoma 2sAl1mony Indian receivers 1 Newspaperman 29 Poison ivy woe 
Adolph 30 Courtroom B Stew morsel addressee, with g Highly regarded 
"your" ,oSkirt style 
33 "--to differ!" 

11 Frenzied: Var. 34 Lima's land 12 Mrs. Eisenhower 35Appear f3 Running on --36 Surmounting 19 Not straight 3B Medieval 21 Fire remnant 
weapon 24 Tackle box item 
39 Broadcasts 26 Mayberry jail 43 Diplomat's aide habitue 44 Corn, to 27 Actress Miles chickens 
BILL AMEND 
11-IE MAD 
UTERAL1ST STR1kES AGAIN. 
0 
SCOTT ADAMS 
/:i..T FlR'2>T, EVER'<O~E WI\NT£D TO '5Tt1ND NE.AR ML THEN 
THE ,\CCV5AT10N5 
~ 
~ 

54 Radio man Don 46Uncle-­
45 Run out 

55 Train track 47 Sew with loose 56 Word after catch stitches 
or hang 48 Certain berth 57 Free ticket 49 Weapon that's se Bouncing thrown 
baby's seat 53 More or--so Single: Prefix 
Answers to any three clues in this puzz.Ie are available by touch-tone phone: 
1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions ace available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
.... 
-

~ Christmas in April Benefit Run 
A ~t ~ ~~ ~.J\~ Pfu5 2. Mi\e Wa\k '0aturdai, Apri\ to, t1:00 AM '5tepan Center 
-r-'f,hh1t to a\\ 12-egif>trants 14gir,ter in Advan,e at ~'f,ports $1,.oo In Advarn:.e or $1.oo Dai of \2.ale °f)tudent and '5-taff Divi11ions 



A\\ -ProGeedr, to e,enefit ~~ iln ~\ 


Sponsored By 
1•r 
& 
~~ 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Begin, as school & St. Peter's Square figure 10Broadway "Auntie" 14 Peter of "Casablanca· 15 Cards up one's sleeve? 16 Muslim holy man 17 Anyoneol God's creatures 
1e Classic Bet1e Davis line from "Beyond the Forest· 
20 Second-place 
finishers 22 Cati forth 23 WNW's opposite 24 DiCaprio, to fans 
25 Lock opener 
2& Proceeding easily, at last 31 Dallas's locale 32 Metal to be refined 33Res-· loquitur 37 Tempers 38 Flogged 40 Underground vegetable 41 Miss America wears one 42 --de Janeiro 43 Word on mail from Spain 
44 Oscar-winning role for Tom Hanks 
47 Greyhound, e.g so Slalom curve s1 It's 
perpendicular to long. 


¦ The Irish qualified ¦ The softball team ¦ Men's lacrosse domi­10 fencers for the .scored a successful nated Air Force and NCAA Championships. spring break in two Denver. 
west coast tourna­ments.
PORTS 
p.21 pg. 18 pg. 15 
fHE 
page 24 ··-0 BSERVER Tuesday, March 16, 1999 
¦ WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
1999 is not 'Sweet': Irish fall to Tigers, 74­
ObserYcr Staff Reporr 
Tlw lurk of tlw Irish finally ran out. 
On a two-year strnak of making the Swent 16. the highest­ranknd Notre Dame t11am in school history was unable to match its bighest-evpr NCAA tournament finish -a Final Four appPar­anee in 1997. 
Monday night's 74-64 loss to the LSU Tigers in th<' tournament's second round cmded the Irish season. 
Notre Dame, 26-5 on llw season, has bef'n just 2-2 since losing starting poinl guard Nlele Ivey in the semilinals of' tile Big Easl tournament. Seeded fifth bv the NCAA committee. the Irish lost 
-
home-court advantagn in t.hn first two rounds, playing both NCAA tournament contests in Louisia11a. 
Coach Muffct McGraw's squ11d h11rnly advanced past tlrn first round with a 61-57 win over St 'vfary's (Calif), coming behind from a five-point deficit in the final two minutes. Often staling that this year's squad was her lrnst, McGraw was unable hold on tu a four-point lead at 15:28 in the second half' against the Tigers. 
The lrish opem~d the second half with a 10-0 run Lo take the 4~­38 li>ad. The Irish PxtendPd the lead to 59-51 minutns ltffi-1r on a near-perfect 85 µercent shooting during the run. 
Bul the Tigers stole Notre Danrn's come-from-behind storylinn this time around Latasha Dorsey sr.ornd nine points in the ganws' final six and a half minutes while April Brown and Katrina Hibbert both scored three-pointers to script a 15-2 run. 
Dorsey landed a career-best five treys in the game and totaled a game-high 24 points. Hibbert followed for the Tigers with 15, despite playing just 27 minutes. 
Ruth Riley led Notre Dame's effort with 20 points on 8-of-10 shooting from the field. Senior Danielle Green, who has one year of eligibility left on the collegiate level, scored 19. Team captain Sheila McMillen ended her Irish career with a nine-point effort. 
With a strong offense leading the way most of thB season, Notrn Dame committed 27 turnovers against LSU, far abovn its season average ofjust 19 a game. 
Shelia McMillian and the Fighting Irish were unable to overcome the LSU Tigers in second round. 

¦ Mrn's BASKETBALL 

Macleod 'resigns' after eight seasons 
By JOEYCAVATO JR. the NIT. to sen what happens." , 
Majerus heads list 
Senior Sporrs Writer Without a head coacb. llw currnnt Irish With three starters including the top two players lind themselves unsun• or tlw direc­scorers, Troy Murphy and David Graves, the 
ofpotential new 
Many Irish basketball fans have called for tion of' the program. Wadsworth did say that new coach will have plenty of talented play-this announcement for quite a while, but last he wanted to him a nnw coach bl)J'orn the ers Irish coaches Tuesday the rumors turned to reality. spring-recruiting signing dak of J\pril 7. "I think everything is in place for Notre 
Men's basketball head coach John "H's a stflp down bPcausl' wo're losing Dame to make a positive move," MacLeod 
By JOEY CAVATO JR. 

MacLeod resigned after eight seasons during coach," Dillon said. "Evnrybody's going to be said. "l appreciate the opportunity work here 
Senior Sports Writer which he posted a 106-124 record. at a standstill for a while tu sno who's going at Notre Dame and I wish the bnst for the 
"I feel like we were able to make major to come in and how tlmy'ro going to react to young men who arc part of the program." 
Now the fun begins.

contributions to the growth of Notre Dame the new coach. W<i're just waiting patiently 
Normally during late 
basketball," MacLeod said. ---------------------------------------, 
March Notre Dame fans are 
"John always has been an exem­forced tu talk about other 

plary representative of the 

COACH MACLEOD1S CAREER RECORD AT NOTRE DAME 
school's basketball teams. University," athletic director 
Now the hottest question
Michael Wadsworth said. "I appre­

around campus aside from 
ciate all that he and his staff have 

"How was your break?" is
'91-'92 18-15 '95-'96 9-18 
done for the program and I thanked "Who do you think it's goinghim for that." 

'92-'93 9-18 '96-'97 16-14 
to be?" 
Despite the seemingly annual. 

With John MacLeod's res­
end-of-the-season rumor mill that 

'93-'94 12-17 '97-'98 14-14 
ignation last Tuesday, new surrounded MacLeod's job stability, coaches' names have popped
'94-'95 15-12 '98-199 14-16
the players were still surprised up more than people with 

when MacLeod informed them of fresh suntans. 

-his resignation by telephone. 
Utah's Rick Majerus seems "I was pretty shocked," Jimmy 
to be the most popular
Dillon said. "It's been a rumor for 

total 106 wins -124 losses 
rumor. 
so long that none of us paid any 

WNDU-TV reported over 
attention to it l didn't think any-

the weekend that Majerusthing was going to happen. lie 
will bo in town this week to 
called and spoke to me. It came as discuss the employment pos­a pretty big surprise." 

sibility and that several 
Mad.cod's best season came dur­

weeks ago Majerus and
ing his first with the Irish, 199 l-92, Notrfl Dame officials had a Notre Oamc finished 18-15 and lost 

"get to know you session" the Na lion al lnvitalional 
ovnr thP phonci. 
Tournanrnnt championship game. 

Majerus was tight-lipped
In 1996-97. VlacLeod landed 

after his squad's loss to 
another stellar season when he won Miami of' Ohio on Sunday.

th1i Big East Coach of the Year. That year the Irish went 16-14 and 
The Observer/Joe Stark 
..ar-see COACHES/ page 22
advanced to the quarterfinals of John Macleod's parking space stands empty after he resigned following yet another losing season. 
BlucBrav National Classic at Montgomery, Ala. Fencing Women's Swimming
SPORTS 

Thursday-Sundar NCAA Championships NCAA Champion.ships 
....s 
at Waltham, Mass. at Athens, Ga. vs. Iowa Thursday-Sunday Thursday-Sunday Sawrday 11 a.m. 
I 
ATA 

l t 
l GLANCE 




