
Break a leg 
Jenny says ... 
Water Engine debuts on campus tonight at 7:30 
Check out Cowbo.lJ Mouth, sex drives and 

Wednesday
p.m. in Washington //all. Read Scene's preVlew 

hard-Core ·intellectuals' in today's 
for background before seeing the play. 
editorial section. 
NOVEMBER 17,
Scene . page 10-11 
Viewpoint . page 9 
1999 



--=~=============-~-=-=---=-===-=-====================================:=_:_:==============================-====== 
THE 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIII NO. 54  HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU  
PUSHING CORPORATE LIMITS  New software system  
aids in academic advising  


By LIZ ZANONI 
News Writer 
Notre Dame is finalizing now soft­ware that will enable faculty and stu­dents to have access to information on degree requirements for gradua­tion, said Charles Hurley, the University's assistant registrar. 
The new software is designed to make professors experts on the requirements within their depart­ments so they can better assist stu­dents with advice. This will be~ espe­cially useful for Notre Dame's diverse undergraduate program which often experiences quick changes and expansions in required classes, Hurley said. 
The Web version of the degree­audit program will enable students to have access to their personal aca­demic records. Students who are thinking about changes in their majors can compute which credits will count toward completing new requirements. 
"lt will be flexible enough for com­puting requirements as strict as in the College of Science and liberal enough for ones in the College of Arts and Letters," Hurley said. 
Faculty will be able to use Notre Dame's new degree-audit system to compute grade point averages and degree requirements "within split seconds," Hurley said. The pro­gram's ability to grab information and data off the mainframe will be five times faster than the current software. 
Professors can then use this infor­mation to advise students on regis­tering for courses. 
"The software will free up the advi­sor so that they can help students out not just with course requirements, but with information on overall edu-
BOG sponsors gift giving service project 
projnct. "It reaches out lo a By COURTNEY HOYLE largt'r rangn ol' children in the News Writer world, not just in Lhc United 
Sllttos," 
Mirar!1, 011 tlw ;\v('IHIP, also Pitsch learned ol' the projnct known as Op1~h1tion Christmas through Margo Kalksti1rn, who Child. is w1dl on its way to starwd Opnration Christmas !wiping 1111dPrprivih·gnd chil­Child in Grand llapids. She drPn in povnrty-strickl'll roun­lau1H·.l11•cl the project in her triPs. high srhool. 
Volu11 l1•Prs an• askt•d to l'ill a "I slart.Pcl it my senior y(·ar shol'hox with liygi1•np itnms, as a way to bring sPrvice into toys, sdwol supplins and $5 my Lown. I just wanted to bring l"ur shipping. Tlwso box1!S will thl' awarnuoss (of unclcrprivi­thnn l)p shippPcl Nov. J!J lo lPgt•d children I. This is a way countri1,s s11rh as Bosnia, for fJ(\opln nverywlrnrn to gd t\lhania. Kosovo, llonduras iuvolvccl and recognizing rrnecls allcl Nil"anq.;tw. throughout the world," saicl 
"Opf'rnlion Christmas Child Pitsch. rais,,s shcwboxns full of gifts l'iLsch also got Jacquo for 1·hilcln,11 of ollll'r countrills l.aulznnlwisor involvnd in this who un• 111•1,ding morn," said 
see GIFTS/page 4 Kimlwrly Pitsch, hoad of tlrn cation and lifo," Hurley said. 
Where computing gradn point averages, researching acadnmic his­tory and finding appropriatr, coursns can take up the majority of nrneting time with students, advisors will now have the f'rnedom to advise students on career possibilitins and graduate work. 
The current system requires stu­dents who want to receive reports charting their progress toward meet­ing degree requirements to go, in person. to the registrar's office and request the written report. Many uni­versities such as Notre Dame am abandoning these more outdatnd and inconvenient ways of finding and dis­tributing information, Hurley said. 
Ile said that creating the new pro­gram involved the partnership between Notre Dame and Software Hesearch Northwest (SHN), a soft­ware manufacturing company who has had a long history of working with Notre Dame software programs. The partnership between SHN and Notre Dame has created a way to reveal an abundance of d11tailnd information on a singln Wnh ·scrnnn without making tlrn program nxc1is­sively complicated. 
llurley pointed out that tlw rww software will still dmnand communi­cation with advisors and faculty about degrne-requirmnents. 
"The software is meant to lwlp with advising, not rnplacn it," hn said. The deans will make final deci­sion over who has fullillncl tlrn proper rcquirnments !"or graduation. 
"l\o computer program will tnll a dean what the curriculum is and who graduates," Hurley add11d. 
The "self serve" degree audit pro­gram is currently being t11sted by fac­ulty members and should be avail­able for student access through Irish Link sometime next year. 

Lightbulb causes fire in Lyons 
gated the scene and cleaned Lyons hall staff called Notre
By TIM LOGAN 
up. Damn Security/l'olicn and 
News Editor 

Hall staff discovered tho began 1ivacuating rcsiclnnts. 
blaze when tlrny noticed Othnr womnn f"ound out 
A small fire caused by a smoke in the hallway outside whnn they smellnd smok() or light bulb prompted an evac­the room. heard pno­uation of Lyons IIall Tuesday r i r e p 111 Pvacu­evening. alarms did "/ think it's ironic that ating. 
No one was hurl by the not go off M y
twice in the past week 
fire. It caused minimal dam­right Away, roo 111111 a t.11
we've had two.fires and
age. mostly to tho clothes in according walknd in the closet wlwn'. it started. to Lyons the alarm hasn ·1 and said 
The fire was rnporl<\d at rector 'ThPrP's
gone off"

7:35 p.m. af'Lnr sonrn Low11ls Sistl'r smokn, WI' in a first-floor room's closet Kath In 1, n havP to gPL caught fin• from the lwat of Bnatty, but Mary-Claire Jarvis out .... said a light bulb directly over­the srnokP sophomore junior l.iza hoad. It sprnad through tho was so Naticchia. clos!'t and may have caus11d heavy it was Sunday damage in the room above. obvious thern was a f"irn. mo,:ning thnrn was anollwr 
Firn pnrsonrwl arrived at "We went into the room small firn causncl by a light the scene within a few min­and you could taste iL," she bulb in Lyons. TlHi room utes and put nut llw names said. alarlll did not go off in that 
shortly thernafter. The hall Dorm officials pulled thn f"irn oithnr, according to was evacuated until 8:25 fire alarm when smoke 
p.m. whilr firnmnn invesli-detnctors did not sound. 
sec FIRE/page 4 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Wednesday, November 17, 1999 

INSIDE COLUMN 




Spring break scams 
It is that time of year when many students will return home to ask their parents a burning question: "Can you help me out with spring break?" 
When my roommates and I asked our parents this Brian Hobbins question last year, a resounding "no" echoed 
assistant 
across the Midwest. 

viewpoint
Salvation to our escapist 
editor

blues came in the form of an ad, hidden discreetly in The Observer. Student Express was promoting trips to exotic locales in Mexico at cut-rate prices including free trips for "campus repre­sentatives." It seemed too good to be true! 
And it was. 

The surprisingly low prices gave way to one of the biggest nickel-and-dime scams I have ever fallen into. Deposits, "meal plans" and "perk" packages put a slow suction on student bank accounts well before the ides of March began to blow. Number crunching let us figure out where that free trip was coming from: our own wallets. 
However, as the winter snow drifts piled, the thought of the beaches and open-air bars acted as a salve to our financial wounds. Finally, the big day arrived. Students poured into Chicago's O'Hare airport by the hundreds for our 2 a.m. check-in Sunday morning. 
A flight delay and a few hours later, there was another flight delay. Finally, we boarded our charter plane approximately 10 hours late. True, we would lose a whole day in Mexico, but at least we would be there in time to shower, change clothes and hit the bars, right? 
Student Express had other plans; they decid­ed to put the luggage for their trip to Jamaica on our plane to Mexico and vice versa. It was comically surreal to see my friends' luggage with Jamaica tags come in on the luggage rack. Surely Student Express would make everything alright by the time we would need our swim­suits for a Monday morning dip, right? 
Our luggage was delivered to us on Wednesday, and not a moment too soon. The swimsuits we had to buy at "el mercado" were not proportioned for gringos altos and the sea water was shrinking them. Additionally, the few threads we had were getting a little gamy after three nights partying. Aside from lost lug­gage, a lost day and an errant reservation at the hotel it would seem nothing else could go wrong, right? 
During our week stay in Cancun, the sinister Student Express never ceased to amaze me. Our meal plan provided us with $2 worth of food for, you guessed it $2. The open bar was a chaotic madhouse that yielded beer to the highest tipper. There was zero accountability anywhere in the organization and whenever a problem developed our fluent Mexican hosts quickly picked up the phrase, "no ingles." 
The stressful week came to an end back at the airport. We rolled in at 2 p.m. for our pre­flight check-in. A delay and a few hours later, their was another delay. Sanity in the hot air­port was limited. Rumors of a gate change and an overbooked plane gave way to a running of the bulls of sorts across the concourse. 111 Fighting, sweating and swearing will be my last memories of Mexico and Student Express. 
These memories I share with you not as a sob story, but as a warning. If a travel plan seems to good to be true, it probably is. My advice is pay the extra money and go the extra mile stateside to have a blast beachside. 
The views expressed in the lm,ide Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Josh Bourgeois Julia Gillespie Erica Thesing Graphics Mirabel Morey Amy Crownover 
Sports Production 
Mike Connolly Rachel Protzman Viewpoint Lab Tech Brian Hobbins Mary Leffers 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday ,h,ough Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of th~ Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
THIS WEEK IN SOUTH BEND  
Wednesday  Thursday  Friday  Saturday  
. Country dance lessons:  . Theatre: Meet Me in St.  . Comedy: The Amazing  . Arts and crafts show:  
North Liberty Community  Louis; Round Barn  Jonathan; The Funny  Cook Energy Information  
Building; 7 to 8 p.m.  Theatre; Nappanee; 2 & 8  Bone Club; 8 & 1CU5 p.m.  Center; 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.  
. Concert: Jim Gill; Main  p.m.  . Theatre: The Odd  . Thanksgiving stories and  
Library Auditorium; 6:30  . Museum: Nickol Fine  Couple; John Glenn High  crafts: Borders; 4230  
p.m.  Arts; 100 Center; 11 a.m.  school; 7:30 p.m.  Grape Road; 4:30 p.m.  
to 5 p.m.  

Compiled from U-Wire reports

OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Students protest governor's proposal 
GAINSVILLE, Fla. "We can't go down without a between now and Friday. First, SG A telephone conference with State and other student organizations will
fight, so to speak. This is the
University System Chancellor Adam mass e-mail a letter to more than Herbert on Monday failed to allay all point for us to show 1,000 students urging them to call or of student body president Brent ourselves. ,, fax members of the Board of Regents Gordon's concerns with Gov. Jeb with a request to table the measure Bush's One Florida Initiative. until student input can be heard. 
Jocelyn Moore
"This plan that he's proposing Moore encouraged students to for­should work, but it probably won't University of Florida ward the e-mail to everyone they work," Gordon said. "Even if it's the student body vice president know. best plan in the world, if students Second, Moore said students don't understand it, we're going to should call their local regent to fight it." Regents meet to vote on One Florida. oppose the plan. Finally, Moore said 
Students Monday night planned a The plan would bar race-and gen­two buses of students would travel to hastily organized campaign to do just der-based preferences in state uni­Jacksonville on Friday morning to that at a meeting of the SUS Board of versity admissions policies. protest at the University of North Regents in Jacksonville on Friday. "We can't go down without a fight, Florida board meeting. Also on Monday night, UF Student so to speak," student body vice presi­Moore said students riding the bus Government, the Hispanic Student dent Jocelyn Moore said. "This is the would spend Thursday night at the Association and the Black Student point for us to show ourselves." Institute of Hispanic Culture on Union were arranging a letter-writing Moore and others plan a three­University Avenue making signs and campaign and a trip to protest as the pronged attack on One Florida posters. 

Stanford fights illegal use of name 
STANFORD, Calif. 
In another example of the Internet's relentless abil­ity to revolutionize everything in its path, Stanford University officials are now fighting a difficult battle against increasing illegal uses of the Stanford name on the Web. While the law still protects trademark ownership in cyberspace, it is the ease of infringe­ment on the Internet that forces trademark owners to be more vigilant, University General Counsel Michael Roster said. "The speed with which abuses might occur on the Internet is pretty fast. You used to have to rent a room, hire a sign-painter. You wouldn't he up and running for at least 60 to 90 days," Roster said. Web sites using the Stanford name illegitimately, he said, can be built within hours. According to Roster, it's not only the ease and speed of infringement in the wired world that make trademark owners nervous, but the global nature of the Internet. "In the U.S. we can sort [trademark infringement] out pretty quickly," Roster said, but suddenly the University is looking at a global prob­lem. 

Champion will disclose factories 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 
Champion Products Inc., Harvard University's largest licensed apparel manufacturer, announced yesterday that it will comply with University demands to disclose all locations of its factories producing colle­giate clothing. The announcement marked an abrupt reversal for Champion, which for six months refused Harvard's request to release the names and locations of the company's overseas factories. "We thought [Champion] had to do it and they came around and saw things our way," said University attorney Allan Ryan Jr. The company pledged to release the sites by ear~y January 2000. The announcement came barely two weeks after a similar commitment by Gear for Sports, Harvard' s second largest licensee. Champion decided on a policy of full disclosure after student activists across the country accused the company of manufacturing clothing in sweatshop conditions, said Peggy Carter, a Champion spokesperson. "They made this an issue for our customers," Carter said. "We wanted to reassure them of our commitment to fair practices." 


LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather ® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

~ ~ 
1111999 AeeuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Pt.ssur~: 

® © GJ ~ [23. E:§l D. Q ~ ~
.

High Low Showers Rain T-atorms Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
'li1Assacialed f'ress 

Atlanta 60 36 Las Vegas 66 56 Portland 53 47 Baltimore 48 27 Memphis 63 39 Sacramento 59 46 Boston 44 27 Milwaukee 48 32 St Louis 56 37
~~ ~ & £:1 ~ ~ m c:£1 
,;:.. \,. ...~..~ ...... :. ·=·.,:::•.;::· -::..-::..-::. 
Chicago 49 31 New York 46 31 Tampa 76 51 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Houston 75 56 Philadelphia 48 27 Wash DC 49 30 
Via Aaocialed Prass GraphicsNet 

Wednesday, November 17, 1999 The Observer . LOCAL NEWS page 3 
SMC i01ple01ents new software 
By NICOLE HADDAD 
News Writer 
Imagine your lifo in mm pur­ple box in the bastHIHrnt of Ln Mans llall. 
That's wlwrn it will Im once Saint Mary's implements Banrwr 2000, a computer man­aging syst.mn that. contains all the administ.rativo information at Saint Mary's College. This includns student information, alumnao dnvPlopnwnt. financial aid and human rnsources. 
"We used to write our own systmn. using diffornnt software in nach department," said Joel CoopPr, dirnct.or of' Information Techrwlogy. "Tlw Banner sys­tem supports all of' the business functions for the Collogii." 
According to Lorraine Kitch rwr of' tlw rngist.rar's oflice, "Banner 2000 has rovolu­tioniznd administrative comput­ing at Saint Mary's. Tho prima­ry hPnelit. is combining the sep­arate dat.abasPs in t.lw differnnt. administrative arnas into ono integrated databas1\." 
Cooper said tlrn now systnm rnpn\snnts a shirt f'rom old met.hods of' organizing data. 
"Wo am moving from oldnr nrnt.hods lo a state-of'-t.lrn-art way of' oporating thn College, and that's prntty exciting." Coopm· said. "It isn't. just the it, it's many areas of the campus coopnrating to get this done. A very significant change. A state­of'-the-art information system built on top of a state-of-the-art network." 
Cooper explained that the College has been researching a rrnw information system ror some tinrn. 
"When I came three years ago, it was a good time to look at the commor­
to look at the way we do busi­ness," Cooper said. "Implementing this system is critical to Saint Mary's future success. Being able to adminis­. t.er the College in an efficicmt manner as well as improving business processes are all things that will help Saint Mary's bet.tor serve all her con­stituencies and will help Saint Mary's be a top-of-the-line insti­
tution." 
T h e 

cial infor­ "We are moving from older  company  
mation system. We spent.  methods to a state-of-the-art way ofoperating the College,  that. owns and sells Banner,  
two years  and that's pretty exciting."  ca 11 e cl  
looking at  SCT,  did  
st.at.e-of'­t.lrn art  Joel Cooper  more than simply sell  
col logo  director of Information Technology  the system  

and uni­vorsity systems," Cooper said. "Aft.or forming a committee with per­mission from the Administrative Council, we narrowed down our possibilities of what works and what. doesn't." 
Cooper said the College sought. a system that. would be morn efliciont. to serve the stu­dents, faculty and administra­tion. All arrows pointed toward an integrated representative computer system where data are only stored once. 
"This gives us tho opportunity 
lo the 
College. 
They formed a partnership, looking at the College as a potential recruiting site. Banner will also allow the College to provide Web access to the information through a secure Web browser. 
"I believe this bold move [to purchase Banner 2000] on the part of the College and the trustees will serve lo put Saint Mary's on the cutting edge in administrative computing, espe­cially when the Web products are in place," said Kitchner. 

Lecturer discusses sources of disputes 
By MIKE DELAROSA 
News Writer 

Cultural and civilizational differences will replace polit­ical and ideological ones as a source of conflict in the com­ing century, said Stephanie Lawson, a professor of international relations at the University of East Anglia. 
Lawson discussed the con­sequences of local culture compared to a more global culture Tuesday in her lec­ture "A New Age for World Politics?" 
"[In the future, the] princi­ple source of conflict will be cultural," Lawson said. She particularly emphasized the culture of the many Asian­Pacific countries under the influence of Western, democ­ratic culture. 
"Due to the fact that. democracy is generally based on ideas of the west. they do not translate well into Asian countries," Lawson said. She offered Taiwan, South Korea, the Philippines and Japan as countries who have adopted democracy despite their cul­tural and natural tendencies. 
Lawson also discussed the definition of culture and its varying subcategories, such 
as world culture and st.ate cult.urn. 
"Culture is sonrnt.hing loose," shn said. "It's about changn and if it's not moving it's <load." 
Aft.or defining culture, Lawson challenged tlrn morn specific nature of' the term. 
"Is there onn culture in a culture or multiple int.nrprn­t.ations?" she asked. "Is the idea of culture usod to exploit.? To what. oxtnnt. can a culture be claimed?" 
She also discussed moments in the course of the century that. have shapnd world politics, especially tlrn Cold War. 
1999 marks thn IO year anniversary of' tho fall of communism. With this land­mark came a certain amount of rnlioved tension within tlrn West, giving democracy a boost. world-wide. Democracy was once again celebrated with the coming of Operation Desert. Storm. "Hnmoval of' Iraq replaced euphoria from tho end of the cold war," Lawson said. 
Stephanie Lawson has written on the politics in the South Pacific region. lier research focuses on tlrn poli­tics of culture and democrati­zation in Southeast. Asia. 

Group questions Ind. teachers' credentials 
Associated Press 

INDIANAPOLIS 
A conservative Washing­ton group has given Indiana a failing grade for its efforts to boost. what the group calls quality teaching in public classrooms. 
The Thomas B. Fordham Foundation also says Indiana's teacher prepara­tion system is a disgrace, and lumped the state with those among the country's worst when it comes to fos­tering quality education. 
But the survey, tit.led, "The Quest for Better Teachers: Grading the States," grades the educa­tion systems based on the group's own particular ideas: that. parents should be allowed to choose the 
school their kids at.tend; that teachers and principals shouldn't. be awarded job security for reasons ot.lrnr than performance; that indi­vidual schools -and teach­ers -should be singled out. if' they don't. produc!r mea­surable results and that schools should Im abln lo hire well-educated people who may not. have tradition­al tnaching credentials. 
But. .t.hn news wasn't. all negative. 
I11diana received an ovnr­all "A" grade for account.­ability. Tim rnport. cit.ml the fact that schools are assigned ratings, the st.ale's ability lo close schools deemed to be failing. and the fact that officials offer recognition to top-perform­ing schools as masons for the top grade. 
.JDM Communications 
NEXr
iiir=iii" 
. ----­

!!!!!! !!=:!!!= AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE 
• 100% National Digital Wireless Network ' • Direct Connect * 
• No Roaming 
• Ask About Our No Long Distance* 

~) 

,, \.~ , • No Contracts 
,,, · · .. ··· ·· Call Today and Ask About Our: 250 Anytime Cellular Minutes w/ 1000 Free Weekend Minutes* 

For $40°0 per month 
219 237 1082 802 East LaSalle Ave., South Bend, IN 46617 
--(Just South of St. Joseph's Medical Center) 
10% Offof Equipment and/or Accessories w/This Ad 
(Valid thru 11-30-99) www.jdmcommunications.com "Bringing You Tomorrow's Wireless Technology Today" 


Communities of Faith Sharing and Scripture Study 
IT'S NOT TOO LATE!! EMMAUS FAITH-SHARING GROUPS ARE STILL BEING FORMED!!! 
Talce advantage of this opportunity to deepen your friendships or discover new ones while growing in your faith. Each Emmaus group consists of 6-8 members meeting weekly for about an hour to pray, discuss Scripture and faith-related issues while sharing the "ins and outs" of daily lives as ND students. Join indi­vidually, with a few friends or as an entire group. 
For more information contact Clare Sullivan at 1-3389 in the Badin Campus Ministry Office. 



The few. The proud. The Observer News Department. 1-5323. 
-.-.------­

page4 The Observer . NEWS Wednesday, November 17, 1999 


GOP and Clinton debate budget 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 

Republicans pressed the White House on Tuesdav to accept a small across-tho-· board cut in federal spending as the two sides edged to the brink of a near-$400 billion budget deal. 
President Clinton vetoed a 1 percent reduction in agency budgets two weeks ago, and DPmocrats have accused the GOP of pursuing mindless, excessive cuts ever since. Eager for political cover, Republican negotiators have offered a 0.42 percent reduc­tion, and !Iouse Speaker Dennis Hastert, R-lll., pur­sued such a cut in a telephone talk with Clinton, who is in Turkey. 
"I talked to the president last night, he didn't reject it," Hastert said. 

But Tuesday's bargaining session ended after White· House budget chief Jack Lew refused to accept an across­the-board cut, GOP negotia­tors said. 
Aides said a frustrated Hastert would try reaching Clinton once again, and votes on a compromise package were now not expected until Thursday. 

To keep agencies open while talks continue, Republicans planned Wednesday to push through the sixth short-term spending bill since the Oct. 1 start of fiscal 2000. This one would run through Nov. 24. 
Resorting to gimmickry, bargainers agreed to delay the scheduled Sept. 30, 2000, pay day for the military and some civilian federal workers to the next day -the first day of fiscal 2001. That plan, described by members of both began Oct. 1, have already parties speaking on condition become law. of anonymity, would save the The White House crowed government more than $3 bil­about winning money for hir• lion on its fiscal 2000 books, ing teachers, police officers, even though the same amount land purchases and United of money would be spent. Nations dues. as well as GOP 
The hunt for about $6.5 bil­retreats on provisions helping lion in fiscal 2000 savings the oil, mining and other loomed as the major remain­industries that Clinton consid­ing hurdle to a budget pack­ered anti-environmental. age that would all but finish 13ut at the Capitol, many Congress' work for the year. Democrats seemed under­
The savings  whelmed  
are· aimed at  as lawmak­ 
letting Republicans claim they honored  "I dnn 't think most memhers have figured out how they're going to  e r s returned to the Capitol en masse  
their pledge not to spend  vote on it. ,,  from a Veterans  
Social  Day break.  
Securit-y­ Dick Gephardt  "I  don't  
surpluses  - House Minority Leader  think most  

a contention rejected by Democrats and the Congressional Rudget Office. 
Another possible problem was a demand by Sen. Robert Byrd, D-W.Va., to let coal mines continue stripping mountaintops and dumping the waste into valleys and streams. 
The administration was threatening to veto such a measure on environmental grounds, but offered tempo­rary relief as a compromise. Byrd has proposed letting the practice continue for two years nationwide, according to documents obtained by The Associated Press, prompting protests from environmental groups. 
The emerging budget deal would combine five spending bills financing seven Cabinet departments, dozens of agen­cies and the budgets for the District of Columbia and for­eign aid. The other eight mea­sures for fiscal 2000, which 
members 
have fig­ured out how they're going to vote on it," House Minority Leader Dick Gephardt, D-Mo., said after a mecling of House Democrats. 
He cited "some real victo­ries," but said the year was ending with "a-mixed picture" because of no action on gun control, a minimum wage increase or enhanced rights for patients in managed care programs. 
House Republican leaders tried to rally their own mem­bers to support the package. They boasted about protect­ing Social Security. boosting defense spending, curtailing Clinton's spending requests, winning more flexibility for states using federal education funds, and administration concessions on abortion activ­ities overseas. 
"Our negotiators did as good a job as possible," said House Majority Whip Tom Delay, R-Texas. 



Gifts 
continued from page 1 

project. Lautzenheiser was so touched by the Operation Christmas Child video that she decided to bring this project to her church at home in Bluffton, Ind. 
"I really want to get involved in mission work and this is a start for me," Lautzenheiser said. 
While Lautzenheiser's 
Lautzenheiser said. 

Boxes need to be filled and dropped off in Haggar by Nov. 18 with the a propp,r,label. Labels can be picked up in Haggar also. 
A total of 71 boxes have been turned in, including 11 from Saint Mary's and 60 from Lautzenheiser's church. This event is also sponsored by Board of Governance. Pitsch commended the help and support of all Saint Mary's clubs. 
Pitsch said that the most 
church onlv had two 
"Some day I would like to
weeks to put these boxes be there when they [the together, the 
children] open th.e boxes." 
response was very good. Jacques Lautzenheiser 
"I wasn't student participant sure what to think. They were really excited 
rAwarding time for this project will he on Thursday when -the boxes arc all together. 
"Some day I would like to be there when they !the chil­
about it. If we would have had more time we would have got­ten more boxes. I was really happy with what we got for the short amount of time," dren! open the boxes. This [Operation Christmas Child] is a way I know they am gr,tting something for Christmas," said Lautzenheiser. 
gone off," said sophomore Mary-Claire Jarvis.
Fire 

Beatty said that University electricians would be check­
continued from page 1 
ing the fire alarms in the hall Beatty, although there was today. Each room has an not as much smoke as in alarm, and there are alarms Tuesday's fire. in the hallways. 
"I think it's ironic that twice in the past week we've had Christine Kraly contributed two fires and the alarm hasn't to /.his report. 
CLARIFICATION 
On Nov. 16, 1999, The Observer printed an article titled "Students for Clean Plates to protest" stating that Students for Clean Plates is a University group. Students for Clean Plates is not an official group. It is a coalition of students funded by the World Hunger Coalition, Students for Environmental Action and the Women's Running Club. 
SALON NOUVEAU PRESENTS Our new Campus Salon Lower Level LeMans-.Hall, Saint Mary's Open Tuesday-Friday 12:00 P.M. -8:00 PM. Saturday 10:00 A.M. -7:00 P.M. An Aveda Concept Salon 284-5363 Hair -Skin -Make-up -Nails -Waxing -Tanning The Observer. Come. See. Write the story. 1-5323.  Domino's Pizza Delivery to NDISMC/HC 271-0300 EARLY WEEK SPECIAL! Every Monday, Tuesday, & Wednesday The weekend isn't too far away ... r-------------------, I 2 Large Pizzas w/ Cheese I I $899 I I I$1 Per Topping I I I Add Breadsticks for $1 I I Good every Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday I I Visa/Mastercard/Discover and Checks Welcome! IL ___________________ J  


-. 







orld 
I ¦ 
Wednesday, November 17, 1999 COMPILED FHOM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page S 
------------===========================================================-=--=--=---=---= 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Baptists expel churches with homosexual leaders 
MACON. Ga. 
Gnurgia's Soutlwrn Baptists voteu ovcr­wlwlmingly TuPsday to Pxpel twn churches L11al IPL lwmosPxllals snrvn as leaders and allow1id a gay wndding. The oustnr ol' Oakhurst Baptist of llncatur and Virginia llighland Baplist ol' /\Llanla marked the lirsl tinw in the 177-ynar history of thn Gnorgia Baptist Convnnlion thal it has taken such ar.tio11. Tlw nmvnntion changed its constitu­tion lusl y1mr to cxcluck congregations that ''affirm, approvn or 1indorsP homosnxual lldiavior. It's a lwarLbrnaking thing to be put in a silunlion wlwrn vou have to rnakt) a dcci­si1m lik11 Lhis," said 'th(\ H<'V. Gerald Harris, prnsidmll of tlw (;m,rgia Baptist Convnmion. "WP just d1icidml to draw 1hP line." 
Taliban executes woman 
KABUL. /\fghanistan 
111 a stadium park!'d with thousands of onlook.-rs, a womiln drnsscd in an all-cnvclop­i11g hur<Ja was shol to d1iath Tu!'sday in the first puhlir 1•xnc11lion of a woman since /\fghanistan's Talihan rulnrs took control throe ynars ago. Thn woman, who was identified only as Zarnmm. a motlwr of sevlm childrnn, was convirtPd or b(•ating linr husband to death with a stPPI hamm1•r as he slepl. A Taliban soldier said ttw rPason for lhn slaying two years ago was a "family disputP." /\ young Taliban sol­di(\f, his head wrappPd in the traditional tur­ha11, stood behind her and took aim with his Kalashnikov rifle. Suddenly Zareena stood up and tried to llee, but was sloppnd by a police­woman, who l'orced hnr to sit down again. The soldier moved dosflt" and shot her three limes. Aft.Pr the killing. shouts of "God is grnat!" wore heard in the stadium, which was packPd with nrnn and women, many of whom had brought thnir children. 

Serb charged with killing Albanians 

BELGll!\DE, Yugoslavia 
A St!rbian prosecutor has charged a Kosovo Serb with killing three ethnic Albanians during thn NATO airstrikes, a 1wwspaper roported Tunsday. An estimated I0.000 Kosovar Albanians were killed by Serb paramilitary troops during President Slobodan Milosevic's security sweep, but Bohan Petkovic was the l'irst Serb lo be charged in any of tlrn deaths. Petkovic, 32, was charged with gunning down three ethnic Albanians near the central Kosovo town of Oralwvac on May 9, the independent Blic daily rnportcd. It said Petkovic was angered hy rnports that a Stirb soldier had been injured in clashes with ethnic Albanian n•bels lighting for indep(mdence for Kosovo, a southern province within the Yugoslav rnpublic of Serbia. 


lifli•iltliid&MNI 
AMF'.X:

Dow 
827.01 -3.65

JONES 
Nasd,H1:

+ 171 .58 
A 
3293.05 
+73.51 
NYSE 
6-17.62 , 10.31 
S&P 500: 

Composite
141!Ul8 
Volume: 
+-24.49


10,932.33 
18,798,':180,242 

VOLUME LEADERS 

CANPMJ TICMI, 't CDIPI •SHMQI IIICI CSNTU:U. '80J''f'liljAJ\ . lU.81 +3.8150 1.35
....

OLO&A.L C1':0HJWO =• .u.a +i.:UOO u.u 1tlCRoa0rr ccal' Nlr1' -2,U ..;a.u1~ 87 .oo IJ&LJ.. COkPUT.la DSLL -:..:u -0.UOO tO. 8l INT'IL C'OR.• ,,,,.c -i.'1!il -l.U75 1'. 06 ITAPI..S8 INC BPLB +u.n +:i.11::1, 2',,75 u.t•atT~I Kt.DN .....,,, +20. ,.1 ••• 50.!i~ .is ..t, 
QVl,.COMK QCQM -2. fiS -10.0000 361. 00 OUilfTtt•I'""1'UNB Q'!'IUI +f .16 •l.0000 'Jl .00 DJiltlY l<L!.7 .,.::u~ +0.81'15 2!.n 

Four other demonstra­"We want the youth to chanting, "Let the chil­Associate.! Press 
tors were arrested, stand still knowing that dren in, let the reverend 
Jackson's aides said. their parents and their out." 
DECATUR, Ill. Police would not say who ministers would cross the Jackson had spent 
Leading a made-for-TV they were and what line for them," Jackson Tuesday morning m demonstration that charges Jackson or the declared. "The parents closed-door talks with evoked the style of the others faced, and it was will fight for their chil­school officials but made civil rights movement, the unclear whether he would dren. And that is a good no headway. Rev. Jesse Jackson was post bail or remain in jail. and noble thing." An emergency school arrested Tuesday as he The arrests came nine Jackson inched toward board meeting was set for stepped onto the grounds days after Jackson's the school through a pha­Tuesday night, but school of a high school to protest arrival in Decatur brought lanx of reporters, photog­officials indicated they the expulsion of six stu­national attention to raphers and TV crews were unlikely to offer fur­dents for a brawl at a school officials' decision to holding boom micro­ther compromises. football game. expel the students for phones high overhead. The six students were 
Jackson was taken away their part in the Sept. 17 At one point, he asked expelled after in a brawl in handcuffs after leading fight. the media throng to move in the stands at a football a throng of ministers and Jackson had indicated out of the way so he could game. A seventh student other protesters to earlier he would try to approach the police line was threatened with Eisenhower High. He had bring the students back to and get arrested. expulsion but withdrew promised to force his own school, but the teenagers At thl\ l~w enforcement first. Three of the seven 
arrest to dramatize the did not approach the center where he was held, also face criminal students' cause. police line. about 75 people gathered, charges. 
Congress appropriates late U.N. dues 
that Congress appears 31 percent to 25 percent. billion -or 60 percent of
Associated Press 

ready to approve over Tim tentative accord also all the money owed to Urn three years to pay back depends on no increase in United Nations.
WASHINGTON dues. Another $250 million U.N. spending, and it relies She said U.S. payments

Despite conditions in a 

will come from appropria­on merit as the qualifica­would permit reimburse•
pending deal with 

tions for the Commerce, tion for securing a job at ment to countries that
Congress, the United States .Justice and State depart­the United Nations -not havo borne the cost of U.N.

will be able to pay $350 ments, said James Rubin, a family or other pers1mal peacekeeping, includingmillion in owed dues to the State Department spokes­connections. Britain and France, as wellUnited· NatiDns this year 

man. Catherine O'Neill, direc­as developing countries
and hold on to its seat in Except for the $100 mil­tor of the U.N. office in such as Fiji, Nepal and

the General Assembly, a lion, the deal tentatively Washington, said U.N. Bangladesh.

State Department worked out with congres­spending had not Hubin called the deal

spokesman said Tuesday. 

sional leaders contains increased in dollar terms that was worked out 
The U.N. charter calls for certain conditions. Among since 1994. Sunday as "tlrn best possi­

taking away the vote of 

them, an agreement by the O'Neill also said in a ble under t11rribln condi­
any country behind two 

United Nations to reduce statement Monday that the tions." 
years in its dues. 

the U.S. share of dues from United States owes the lie said a minority in
The $350 million will be 25 percent to 20 percent, United Nations $1.6 billion Congress had compelledraised by using $100 mil­and the U.S. share of -the Clinton administra­the administration to makelion from the $926 million peacekeeping costs from tion's estimate is under $1 a "false choice" 

---------------~-------­
--·-------------------....----------------­
page 6 The Observer . NEWS Wednesday, November 17, 1999 

TURKEY 
Rain, cold torment 
earthquake survivors 
Associated Press 
DUZCE 

Incessant rain swept through quakc-striken northwestern Turkey on Tuesday, adding new misery to people living without shelter in the freezing cold. 
The 7.2-magnitude quake hit friday, killing at least 549 people, toppling al least 300 buildings, and leaving thou­sands of people homeless. The earth shut­tered violent­
ly yet again 
"Once it [rain] gets in 
Tuesday seeped 
evening, your clothes, yolir bones, through the when an you never get it out." plastic, drip­
aftershock ping onto rocked the beds covered city of Bolu Nubiye Cakmak by several and the sur­homeless earthquake victim donated blan­
rounding area. Measuring 
4.8 in magni­tude. Tuesday night's temblor was the strongest of a dozen aftershocks during the day in the area. Bolu is 35 miles west of Kaynasli, the town hardest hit by Friday's earthquake. 
The latest aftershock col­lapsed some already damaged buildings in Bolu, but there were no reports of injuries. 
Policemen warned people through loudspeakers not to seek shelter in their damaged homes from the driving rain. 
About 5,000 residents blocked the main east-west highway to protest the government's relief efforts in the town. 
"Nobody cares about Bolu," said Sungur, who lost his house in Friday's quake. "We're living in makeshift tents covered with nylon sheets." 
President Clinton toured a temporary encampment on Tuesday to see firsthand how thousands of homeless survivors of a devastating earthquake in August are making do. About 17,000 people died in that quake. 
Clinton, who is in Turkey as part of a 10-day European tour, promised continued U.S. money and supplies for rebuilding. 
"We in the United States will do everything we can until your lives have returned to normal," Clinton said after a rain­drenched tour of the tent city of Dogukisla. 

fn Duzce, Nubiye Cakmak said the past four nights were so cold that she fell asleep with her teeth chattering. But the rain is even worse. 
"Once it gets in your clothes, your bones. you never get it out," said the 67-year-old, who lives with her brother and sis­ter-in-law under a nylon sheet propped up by planks of wood. nain 
''It's a 
l)f"' 

Wonderful Life'' 
Stage adaptation ofa classic holidayfavorite. 
kets. 
Throughout 
this hard-hit 

plains town, men shored up the sides of tents with grass and dirt, hoping to keep out the mud, while others huddled under balconies. 
Bedri Bilge, a doctor adminis­tering first aid in a garden crammed with some 50 families, said had already treated several flu cases. 
"Also, the quake may have broken parts of the sewage sys­tem, which could mix with rain­water and spread gastrointesti­nal diseases," said Bilge. Clean drinking and bathing water was crucial for the newly homeless, who are exposed to the ele­ments and temperatures that dip below freezing each evening. 
Men argued with volunteers at the crisis center, demanding that local authorities distribute government-issue canvas tents. 
Ebru Izgin, a volunteer, urged them to move into tent cities, saying the aftermath of the Aug. 17 quake taught authorities to organize people into encamp­ments. 
"If not, the people spread around, and we can't distribute aid," said lzgin. 
The catch: the assignment of the tents is up to the neighbor­hood mukhtar or leader. 


Officials delay crash investigation 
showed Batouty appa.-renUy· came in at some point, "said he wanted to fly" and his request was accepted. 
In Washington. Hall said fur­ther analysis of the cockpit voice recorder was needed on the meaning of the utterance. 
"As long as there are differ­ences in the interpretation ­
Associated Press 
NEWPORT, R.I. 
Officials prepared Tuesday to turn over the investigation of the crash of EgypWr Flight 990 to the fBI -indicating suspicions of a criminal act ­but delayed the move at Egypt's request. 

disengaged and the plane dived from 33,000 feet ­raised suspicions that Flight 990 was deliberately brought down. 
The words apparently came from someone in the co-pilot's seat. but not necessarily the co-pilot. 
A source close to the investi­
The development came amid gation told indications someone in the 
the AP that 
cockpit made a religious utter­Egyptian ance just before the jet went airline offi­into its fatal plunge -and that cials tenta­
a relief co-pilot may have tively identi­taken over before the crash, fied the pcr­The Associated Press learned. 
s on in the 
Jim Hall, chairman of the co-pilot's National Transportation Safety seat as the Board, said in Washington that relief co­additional Egyptian experts p i I o t . were joining the investigation. Gameel El "Given this further develop­Batouty, 59. ment, it is only prudent for the They identi­
'1t is only prudent for the NTSB to fully evaluate this information prior to any final decision on whether the ... investigation should transfer to the FBI. " 
Jim Hall NTSB chainnan 
and there are signifi­cant differ­ences in tho cultural interpreta­tions of 
S 0 m e 
expressions on the recorder ­I think it is unfair ... for us to char­acterize it," 

he said. 
Although the phrase heard on the recorder was charac­terized as a prayer, that doesn't necessarily mean it was related to the cause of the plunge. 
Arabic speakers commonly make references to God in everyday statements. 
National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) lo fully evaluate this information prior to any final decision on whether the responsibility for this investi­gation should transfer to the Federal Bureau of Investigation," Hall said. 
The timing of the prayer ­before the jet's autopilot was fied his voice after listening to the cockpit voice recorder at NTSB headquarters. 

Batouty was scheduled to take over much later in the flight from co-pilot Adel Anwar. Another source close to the invest,gation, also speaking on condition of anonymity, said the tape 


--..--..--------------------------------------------"­
Wednesday, November 17, 1999 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Fed raises interest rates by one quarter to 5.5 percent 
Associated Pr~ss  labor market,•· said Allen Sinai, chief economist at  direct loans to banks, by quarter point to 5 percent.  a  policy directive, which is intended to signal future  because of the view that the central bank did not want to  
WASIIINGTON Tlw Fndtiral Hcservc pushed borrowing costs higher for millions of i\mr.ricans for the third Limc this year on T1wsday. bflosting a key short­term interest rate by a quar­t11r-point to 5.5 pnrcmlt. Thn c1i11tral hank said its actions should "markedly diminish tho risk or inllation going forward," fanning hopes nn Wall Slniet thal there would hn no more rate inrrnasns for a while. l11vnstors sont stock pricns soaring on the news. But private nconomists warnod that the language in th•· F!'d's announcement cl1\arly l1•ft opnn tlrn possibility of l'urth11r incrnasns if the l!Conomy dons not slow to a morn sustainahl1i pace. "Tlw FPd contimms to be on inflation alnrt. driven by a strong IH'.Ol\omy and a tight  Prirnark Global Economics in New York. "The door is still open for more rate hikes, just not beforn early February." In a one-page announce­mont issued after its closed­door deliberations, the central hank said, "Although cost pr1>ssurcs appear generally contained, risks to sustainable growth persist." For that r1>ason. the central bank said it was boosting its federal funds rate, the interest that banks charge eachother on overnight loans. to 5.5 per­cent That action triggered announcements from commer­cial banks that they were increasing their prime lending rate, the benchmark for mil­lions of business and con­sumer loans. to 8.5 percent from 8.25 percent. The Ped also increased its largely symbolic discount rate, the intcrnst it charges to make  It marked the third time this interest rate moves, back to year the central bank has neutral. The directive had increased the federal funds been switched to a bias rate as it has tried tu engineer toward raising rates at the a soft landing, slowing the last meeting in October. · economy W a I I enough to Street keep infla­staged a'The Fed continues to be ontion pres­strong sures in inflation alert, driven by a rally on c h e c k strong economy and a tight the opti­while not m i S ti Clabor market." endanger­forecast of ing the 8 1 o w e r 1/2 -year Allen Sinai inflation economic pressureschief economistexpansi!ln, and thePrimark Global Economicsalready switch to a t h e neutral longest in peacetime history. bias. The Dow Jones ind us trial The Fed raised the funds average finished the day up rate tu 5 percent on June 30, 171.58 points at 10,923.33, its the first rate increase in two highest dose since Sept. 13. years, and boosted it by Private economists agreed another quarter-point on Aug. with Wall Street that the Fed 24. was sending a strong signal In its statement. Lhe centra.l that it is finished raising inter­bank said it was moving its est rates for this year. in part  boost rates at its Dec. 21 meeting because of a desire not to be changing policy so close to the Year 2000 com• puter date change. But analysts also said the central bank apparently was still worried that the economy was growing too rapidly. The Fed said the pool of available workers has dwin­dled as "the expansion of' activity continues in excess of the economy's growth poten­tial." Federal Hesnrvc Chairman Alan Greenspan has 1-lXprnssed worries for more than a year that continued tight labor markets will cvuntually trig­ger rising wage demands. especially if the recent spurt in productivity falters. So far, businesses have been able to cover higher labor costs through increases in productivity, morn output per hour of work.  


If our delicious, flame-broiled double cheeseburger were any bigger, we'd need to buy more ad space. 
Nothmg beats our big, juicy Double Cheeseburger. It's gotthe great taste offlame broiling and has 7Hf, more beef than McDonald's"' Cheeseburger. 
(Price and participation may vary.) 
The Hudclkt. Laf'ort11ne Stw.nr Center 
It just tastes better.
•
C 1998 Burger King Corpora!lon" Burger King Corporation is the exclusive llcllt'l1ea o1 the Bun Halves I~tmoom•r1<" McDonald's Is a Mgio!ared lradtlmartc ol !he McDonald's C@rporatlon. 
Nixon heirs demand millions 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 
Thousands of dollars for President Nixon's handwrit­ten self-critiques. Several hundred thousand fr.1r his "I have never been a quitter" resignation speech. Millions more for his secret tape recordings. Add it all up. lawyers representing the former president's estate told a court Tuesday, and it is worth $35.5 million plus millions more in compound­ed interest. 
Not so, the government said. The Nixon estate lawyers' estimated values of Nixon items are based on a "mythical, magical, makc­be li eve world of their dreams," Neil Koslowe, a Justice Department lawyer, told U.S. District 
"No, [Nixon/ would not tive at 
.J u cl g e J o h n have sold those noon 
lo mor­Garrett conversations, but he row." 
Penn. 
I) rafts

sure could have." 
Tuesday 
and tlrn 

was the 
actual finale of a R. Stan Mortenson copy of lengthy 
Nixon's estate lawyer t h e 
trial to determffie -­how much -if anything ­the government should pay Nixon's heirs for the more than 40 million pages of documents, 3,700 hours of tape recordings, photos and other items it confiscated when Nixon resigned. 
Former White House Counsel John Dean and Alexander Butterfield, the Nixon aide who spilled the beans about Nixon's secret tape-recording system, tes­tified at the trial, as did scores of historians and archivists. 
The estate says it wants $35.5 million, plus millions in interest. If the judge placed a $30 million value on the materials, for exam­ple, the total compensation. including interest, com­pounded annually, would be roughly $210 million. according to Nixon estate lawyer R. Stan Mortenson. 
Justice Department 
lawyers remain opposed to any compensation. But they say if something must Im paid. a fair value would be no more than $2.2 million. 
"The court should put an end to this attempt by the Nixon estate to obtain a windfall from the taxpay­ers," the government said in its post-trial brief. 
To underscore the materi­al's historical value, Mortenson replayed a video of Nixon making his resig­nation speech. The teary­eyed president's words to the nation on Aug. 8. 1974, broke the silence in tho courtroom: "I have never been a quitter. To leave office b!-lfore my term is complete is abhorrent to every instinct in my body.... Therefore I shall rnsign tlrn prnsiden­cy nffec­
speech in 

Nixon's hand as he announcnd his resignation would have sold for $200,000 to $300,000, according to appraisers hirnd by the nstate. 
"What does tlrn govern­ment say?" Mortenson asked. "The government says it's worth nothing ­zip, zero, nada, nothing." 
He recallml tnstimony by appraisers who valued Nixon's tapn recordings at $12 million and priced papers on which the presi­dent scribbled his personal goals at $20,000. Even tapos containing Nixon's 
· embarrassing ethnic slurs would have been valuable, he said. 
"No. he would not have sold those conversations, but he sure could have," Mortenson said. "There cer­tainly would have been a market for them. In fact, his enemies would have made up that market." 
VIEWPOINT 
OTHE page 8 BSERVER Wednesday, November 17, 1999 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. !lox Q. Notre Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Michelle Krupa 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
M. Shannor1 Ryan  David Rogcro  
Assr. MANAGING EDITOR  
l.nua Petdle  

NEWS EOJTOR: Tim Logan VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughen SroR1·s EDITOR: Brian Kessler 
SCENE EDITOR: Michael Vanegas SAJNT MARY'S EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie PHOTO E1>1TOR: KC\:in Dah,m 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Bryan Lurz 
AD DESIGN MANAc;ER: Bret Huelat SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kushto 
CONTROLLER: Timorhy Lane GRAPll!CS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX............................................................. 631-6927 ADVERTTSING...... ..........................631-6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF......................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/A.~ST. ME... .................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS.................................................... ......631-5323 
obseiver.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 
observer.viewpoim. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.spons. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4 540 observer .scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S.............................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB AoMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire at http:l!ohserver.nd,d.u for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/ music for

weather for up-to-the 
weekly student reviews

minute forecasts 
advertise for policies 
onlinc features for spe­

and rates of prim ads 
cial campus coverage 
about The Observer

archives ro search for 
articles published after 
to meet rhe editors and 
staff

August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe Universiry ofNotre Dame du Lac and Sainr Mary•s College. Edirorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofrhe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on concenr. 
The news is reported as accurately and objecrively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent che opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editots. Commenraries, letters and columns present rhe views ofthe authots and not necessarily rhose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lcttets is encouraged. Lettets to the Editor must be signed and must include contaa information. 
Qun,iom rrgarding Obs=rpolicies should ht dirrct­tdto Editor in ChiefMichelle Krupa. 

Inspiration is a rare and fleeting idea. 
One moment it seizes your brain and drives you to do so much more than you ever dreamed that you could do. The next moment it leaves you in an exhausted heap crumpled over the intended project with a furrowed brow and immense confusion. 
It is a frustration and a tease. We need it to make our lives complete. We rarely see it and yet it is all around us. 
The most inno­cent comment from a comrade can turn itself into an entirely different way of looking at a perplexing problem. An early morning nature walk can provide the isolation and clarity needed to break a block in your thinking. 
Imagine how many of the world's great technological advancements would come about without some blind­ing flash of inspiration somewhere along the line. Do you think that anyone writes music without inspiration? Where do you think Thomas Hobbes and John Locke's political theories came from? 
Inspiration for my column writing comes from political events, people that I admire or policies that I abhor. Inspiration for schoolwork, book writ­ing and everything else that I do during the day comes from the people closest to me and from my desire to make them proud ofme. 
Of course, inspiration can be more obvious to the musician or the writer. I remember when playing bass guitar for a couple of campus bands that some members would be struck by a sudden idea that would develop into a full origi­nal song. Some of the things that people say and do around me make their way into my stories and book. Sometimes those same people will say something that will spark an entire story on its own. 


Sometimes I will leave people and 10 minutes later be struck with a sudden fluidity of language and desire to tell their story. 
To me,.that is inspiration. It ebbs and it flows. When it is here, I am at my most productive. When it goes away, I never feel a more frustrating low. But it is what makes my life worth living. Now, between graduate school and fic­tion writing, I know that I will not be making a lot of money soon. But at least I am happy with my life and sure in which direction that I want it to go. 
Inspiration is not only limited to the creative arts. Every discipline has its unanswered questions. Every science and art has a limitless area that has yet to be explored. In mathematics, you may be interested in the theory of chaos. In biology, you may be interested in curative research. Economics and government have ever-evolving theories of modern money management. 
Every one of these fields, indeed in every field at the University, has its points of inspiration. You have an excellent opportunity to study absolute­ly any field that you wish at this great school and some of the best instructors to help you toward that inspiration. 
Almost all of the sophomores have already decided upon their major. A few of the freshman have as well. If you haven't, don't worry. Try as many different disciplines as you can until you get that driving, exciting feeling that is the adrenaline rush of inspira­tion. If you have chosen a major and don't ever feel that excitement and ·desire to do it, you can always change. I 
know very few people who stayed true 
to one course of studies for their entire 
undergraduate careers. I know even 
fewer people that knew at the age of 18 
what they would do for the rest of their 
lives. 
Many of you have already registered 
for classes. Most of you haven't. When 
looking through the DART book, if you 
have open space, try to find a least one 
class that inflames your mind with the 
desire to attend it. 
Overall, just try to find something 
that you cannot imagine doing without. 
You will feel the inspiration and desire 
to excel. It will give you the direction 
that you never had in life. If you want 
proof of that, look at the fact that I 
started out in Math 126 and with an 
idea that I might want to go into engi­
neering courses. Then I took a litera­
ture class my sophomore year. I then 
served as the news editor of The 
Observer on my way to trying to 
become an author. Now I am working 
on a Master's of Liberal Arts. and I 
don't think that I would have been 
happy as an engineer. 
Sure, inspiration will leave you dry at 
the most unusual times. But, as long as 
you stay around the people and places 
that you love and that stimulate you, it 
will be back. Then you can ride it until 
the next wave comes along. 
Matthew Loughran is a 1998 gradu­
ate ofNotre Dame and is currently 
working on a number ofwriting projects 
while a MALA candidate at Saint 
John's College in Annapolis. Md. 
The uiews expressed in this column 
are those ofthe author and not neces­
sarily those ofThe Observer. 
SCOTT ADAMS

DILBERT QUOTE OF THE DAY 

"Inspiration descends only in flashes, to clothe circumstances; it is not stored up in a barrel, like salt herrings, to be doled out." 
Patrick White author 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE WeJnesday, November 17, 1999 BSERVER page 9 
LETTERS.TO THE EDITOR 
Cowboy Mouth is washed up 
"Jenny says turn off the radio, Jenny says turn off the light." 
In less than 24 hours, Cowboy Mouth will rock Notrn Dame's Stllpan Center "to its l'o1111dations," according to the Student Union Board, l.1it the countdown begin! 
Mhir sceing the first postMs advertising th1\ much anticipatnd sequel to last year's Third Ey11 Blind and Evn 6 concerts, I spent a couple of hours struggling to find out just who exactly Cowboy Mouth is. 
/\bout 20 "I don't know's" prnceded the britif r.xplanation that they sang "that song." Which song? "ummm ... ya know, 'Jenny says blah blah blah blah, .hmny says blah blah blah .. "' That was all I needed to bring me back lo the summer of 1996, which led me l.o my next question: If these guys had one hit bnforn my junior year in high school, why arc tlrny headlining a concert at Nutrn Dame in lhn fall of 1999'' 
In lhn lwo weeks that have passed since thn11, l hnvCl benn unsuccnssful in my search to find a Notre Dame student who owns, or at loast will admit to owning, any "Cowboy Mouth" CD. Tlw only nxplanation I have bcon ahln to come up with as to why SUB went out of' thnir way to bring Cowboy Mouth to the students of Notre Dame is that an influential llHHnbt!r ol' the board must have a family mmnbrr in the band. 
Far from being an avid Third Eye Blind fan. I was abit• lo refrain from writing a similar ldtnr last year becausn I knew that al least a good portion of my follow students wnre exdWd to see llrn band. II' it is truly impossi-
God gave us a sex drive for a reason 
I would like to writn in rnsponsn to a letter to Lim flclitor in last wnek's Observer entitled "Follow your hnart. rnclaim your purity." 
111 it, tlw author wrote, "We don't 

always know what wn mean with uur hearts." !low can slw say that'! I am MADLY 
in love with my girl-/ f'ril'nd, and I would do i\NYTIIING for her. , 
Slw is thn high­light of' rny dis­mal l!XtSIPnr.,~ at this lrnrriblP university. ancl I.would dr1 anything lo mak1• lwr 
happy. I 
ran not 
l~Vt'll 
bngin to 
explain 
tlw depth 
of"my 
lov1• l"or 
lwr. WP 
an' 11ol 
"imma­
turn 
t1•cr111gers 
who just 
want a 
rPlationship 
l'or tlin sak11 
of a relation­ship." 
No 111w can d!ilimi "pure•" and "good;" tlwy an• both opnn lo i11t1•rprnlation. 0111• can go by what I.hr. Bibln says, but I do not fp1d that orw rnincls lo fol­low the path of 1.!111 good 1mok to ht• accepted by ( iod. 
ble to book a decent band that students are interested in seeing, I have another sugges­tion. It seems to me that if we arc going to be subjected to a struggling washed up one hit wonder, we should at least invite one that is more fun to pick on. I think my fellow stu­d1mtc; would enthusiastically join me in a trek out to Stepan Center to see Snow perform "Informer," Right Said Fred perform ''I'm Too Sexy" or maybe even some good old 80s hair metal bands perform those songs that sound all too familiar on the "Monster Ballads" commercial. 
Considering how rare it is that a rock band comes to play Notre Dame, it is truly unfortu­nate that this is the best that the Student Union Board can do. If my words here have failed in my goal to inspirn you to skip the Cowboy Mouth concert, keep in mind thcso three other reasons: 
1) Dawson's Creek is not a rerun that night. 
2) If Stepan Center is really "rocked to its foundations," it would be safer and more entertaining to kick back and watch that big ugly golf ball crumble from outside than from within. 
3) Though unconfirmed, certain sources claim to have evidence that Cowboy Mouth's music is written by 8-year olds in sweatshops in Honduras. 
Patrick McKeever 
Sophomore Morrissey Manor November 10, 1999 
stupid. until I met my girlfriend. I have been with her for a while now. She changed my mind on chastity, and as much as I would like 
sex, rfeel now that it is better to wait 
until marriage. However, I don't see why that entails no other sexual contact. We as human beings were made to interact in that manner. We were given a sex drive for a reason. I don't think God is cruel and would give us this urge simply as a test and never give us any viable 
option lo escape its influence. 
In clos­ing, I want to thank the author for her 
opinion. as well as for the possible 
loss of my 
girlfriend. She has become extremely upset of late ovm-this sort of issue. Long-distance rclationships arc hard enough. This has just thrown another wrunch in the gears. 
Braden McGrath 

Who is to say Llml two people in love Freshman should not fopl frnn to do what t.l1<1y want to Case W cstern Reserve nach othnr? Cleveland, Ohio I us11d lo foe) that virginity was something Novemher 14, 1999 



Core courses create 'intellectuals' 
Late in the summer of 1999, I drove to the post office in the after­noon to pick up the mail. That day yielded yet another lnttor from thti University, a sight I had become accustomed to. This time it was from the school ofArts and Letters, my highly respected college. Little did I know I had been waiting for this letter all my life, for it would truly mark a turning point. I got home thinking nothing of the lettm as I had received much of the same throughout the summer months. After an hour or two, I decided I should probably look at what I was going to throw away. I opened the letter and saw the Core. The previous spring I had DARTed into this class, as it was required by my college. All I had heard about it was that it was a Jot of reading and writing, and I (ig­ured I could deal with that. I just figured I.he material was whatever the particular teacher chose to teach. However, what this letter told me was beyond my wildest dreams. It had finally happcmid -I was to become an Intellectual. 
I think the rest of the Core students would support me in their extreme and unabashed excitement at learning about this news. When I was a little kid, my mom told me aboul. this elite group -the Intellectuals. She said few were chosen to evnn attempt this grand honor. First, they must go through approximately nine months of rigor­·obs testing organized by a committee of only the highest Intellectuals the actual testing conducted by their family and friends. The task of tlrn pre-Intellectual was a daunting one -they were to gather together articles, novels, memoirs, lectures, nude drawings, etr. and synthesize them into one. They were to figure out why the committee figured all these should be studied together. Furthermore, they were only given a few days for each source. 
This was vital, however, for to an intellectual the meaning of "Frankenstein" and "The Autobiography of Malcolm X" wern as clear as their relation to Drawing on the Right Side of the Brain was. The pre-lntellectual's progress was vigorously monitored by tlw instructors and reported regularly to the committee. There were weekly meetings, which often lasted hours due to the fact that instructors arc made to bow to the committne upon entrance. Also, every meeting a report would be made of an unenlightened infiltrator trying to end the age of' the Intellectual. These people were required to attend a Shakespearn at the Movies lecture and were always quiet thereafter. Only the strongest survived. 
I guaranteed my mom I'd be one of them. 
To be honest, I could barely contain my excitement tlrn lirst day of' class. I eagerly looked around the room at the other 15-17 faces in Urn discussion room. What an intimate and personal atmosphere, I thought to myself. This would prove great for intellectual discussion. I enjoyed just saying the word, even spelling il: I-N-T-E-L-L-E-C-T-U-A-1.. 
I dreamed Q~.t.~pJimir\.when I would be an Intellectual and people would be able to tell'sfmply from the way I talked. My mom sure would be proud. I would be able to relate any piece of popular culture to another with ease. Holden Caulfield would bn the literary soulmatc of Hestnr Prynne, Malcolm X would be the alter ego of lleinrich llimmlcr, and Victor Frankenstein would be a Christ figure. No one would lw able to stop me. As these things ran through my mind, I received the syllabus and was amazed. Everything was there. I could plan my whole semester of Core so as to get all my other work done to have plenty of' time to read the books, attond the lecturos, go to the scrmmings and attend a play. Jt was even better than I imaginer!. I could already liwl myself becoming enlighlenod. 
It is now November and, needless to say, Core has hmm an absolute treat. I don't know what my life would be without it. I never imagined I would be able to dig so deep into a book only rcading portions of' it. I have begun only reading portions of hooks in all my classns, and I find it a true art. My comprehension is through the roof', and I am pulling out ideas that arc over most of my tpachnr's heads -I guess thny'rn just not Intellectuals. i\s it is now, I think I've !men g1itt.ing good rnports to the committee, and I honestly feel that I am ready to move on to Urn second semester of the Corn program -thn last stop bnf'orn tlrn gold at lhc cnd of the rainbow. 
Only a few of those who go to Notrn Danrn, those studr.nts of' the Core program, truly experir.nce the luck of thn Irish and their rnward: bf)coming an lntelloctual. 
Dustin Park 
Sophomon· Morri'6cy M,tnor No~cmbet 16. I 'J99 



ceno 

O
THE page 10 BSERVER Wednesday, November 17, 1999 

By KRISTIN FITZPATRICK Scene Writer 
Would industry do anything to squash an invention that could potentially ruin it? This is just one of the themes proposed by David Mamet in his play "The Water Engine," presented by the film, television and 
theatre , ,.~J;'JT} 
The Water Engine  department this week.  
Set in the back­ 
. Where: Washington Hall . When: Tonight to Friday, 7:30 p.m.;  ground of the 1930's Chicago World's Fair and  
Saturday, 8 p.m.; Sunday, 2:30 p.m. . Tickets: $9, available at door or at  the celebration of "The Century of Progress," the  
LaForlurie box office  play presents the  
story of a young  
woman  named  

Lang, played by senior Erin Luttderbach, who invents an engine that uses water for .its fuel. The oil industry dis­covers this and attempt,c; to buy her plans for the engine. 
When Lang refuses, the industrialists show their determination to stop her by trashing her laboratory and destroying her prototype. She soon finds herself racing against businessmen. mobsters and lawyers in an attempt to save her invention and her life. As the story unfolds, she discovers she is not the only person in dan­ger. 
In an effort to keep her design, her life and her loved ones safe, she must find a way to beat the oil industry and to keep her love of invention alive. 
This production or "The Water Engine" is the director­ial debut of senior F'l1' major Elaine Bonifield. Bonifield was chosen by the theater committee to direct because of her excellence in several theater classes and because of the success of "Three Tall Women," a laboratory the­ater production last s1>.ason.. 
When the committee asked her to submit several titles of plays she wanted to direct, "The Water Engine" was at the top of her list. 
"I was really drawn to the themes presented by Mamet and the many different ways that this play can be presented," she said. 
The play encompasses many different elements from a traditional main stage production, each of which pre­sented a specific challenge for Bonifield. The cast is composed of 10 actors -five men and five women -who Bonifield nal Broadway production was run. She believes it allows the audience to use more of its imagination, but still retains enough action to hold its interest. 

Costumer Jane Paunicka shopped at Chicago's vintage clothing stores and borrowed from the University's Casady Costume collection for the simple. yet complete outfits that allow fast costume changes. The changes must also be done rather inconspicuously so that atten­tion is not taken away from the action onstage. Paunicka decided to dress most of the actors with a base costume that could 
thought provided a nice balance for "/ hope the audience walks have items added or subtracted to the show. However. the play uses suggest a change in character.
away from this with a sense
40 different characters, so each The lighting concept was actor must work to develop four or ofthe many themes that are designed by senior Patrick five distinct personalities on stage. presented in this show. Caraher, who does a brilliant job "I think that that was the most of changing the mood of the story
especially the theme that 'all 
challenging portion for the actors," from the darkness of the Chicago said Bonifield. "We stressed this a people are connected' ... " streets to the cheer of the World's lot in rehearsal. It's difficult Pair. Caraher has emerged as one enough to develop one character of the most experienced students
Elaine Bonifield 
for a show. It's even harder to in technical theater this season.
director, "The Water Engine"
come up with four." When on break from school, 
Another challenge for the set 
designer and the costumer was 
that all the costume changes take place on stage and 
that the actors seldom leave the stage. Kevin Drey~~r. 
who designed the set, had the challenge of making a 
nonspecific set that suggests a locale and also allows 
enough room for tho actors to be on stage during the 
entirety of the production. 
Dreyer also designed a set that would accommodate Bonilield's directing style for the play. Because the play was originally written as a radio show, Mamet gives .directors the freedom to play with this throughout the 
production. 
"In the director's notes, Mamet states that the show 
can be run as a radio show. a play or a combination of 
the two," said Bonifield. Bonifield chose the latter for the 
direction of her show, which was also the way the origi-

Caraher works at the 
Westhampton Beach Performing Art Center in New York. 
Overall, Ronifield is pleased with hor work. Although she has done some directing in the past, she has never done a complete production on her own. 
"I never realized how each little decision affects the whole show," said Bonifield. She is pleased by how smoothly the production went and how helpful everyone else was. She said she has surmounted the challenge presented before her and is eager to tackle more. 
Bonifield anticipates that this show will touch the audience in some way. "I hope that the audience walks away from this with a sense of the many themes that are presented in this show, especially the theme that 'all people are connected' which is stated in the play several times," added Bonifield. 
------------~-----------------­

O
THE Wcdncsday, November 17, 1999 BSERVER page 11 
TV ANALYSIS 
How will Mulder and Scully evolve? 
By MICHAEL VANEGAS 
Scrnr l'dirnr 
nw lllld. l n 111 a II y 111 i11 ds, t Im ,, n d is j us t around th,: corner. in tlw year 2000. In r11ality. tlrn nnd or humanity as most 1wop!P know it is not in the near ruturn. 
111 llollywoocl. though. tlw end is dif­1'1\r1·nt. It can Im wlinnovnr llollywood 1•xprutives want it to lm. 
/\ncl v,il.h tlw limited schizophrnnia thal is sun~ to be rampant comn Dec. JI. llollywood is laying 1:laim to all storins having to do with all things 1•s,· lrntological. 
Wit.h LIH• conl'lusion or lhl' snason Dlll'lli'I' of' "Th,• X-fi!Ps" airin!-{ this p11sl S1111day night, it is clnar that Mu!dPr and Srul!y will lw fighling tlw 111ill1·1111i11111 madness come New Y1•ar's. 
Or is it'! 
Tiu• mantra of "Tlw X-Files" has always hl'Pll, sincn its creation six yP.irs ago, to doubt what is lrnlinvcrl lo IH' Irt1P. "Trust 110 01111" was the molto by which Fox Muldtir (David llilt'hovuv) liviid lo mah Friuays and Sundays ·,rnjt•yub!P /'or millions of tnlo­vis i1111 wat.clwrs out. Lhtirn, so111c­wl11•rP. 
So dr>spitc· lhP heavy mythological buildup from tlw two-part prnmicrn, titlPcl "Tlw Sixth Extinction," in which llw PIHi or humanity was one<' again fun•slrndc,wod as a likely possibility for tlw si•riPs rlimax·. onfl must quns­lion llw valun of the teasing images pn•s1•11 lnd. 
Is this a slnp toward some kind of millc1111ial oxplosion'! Or is it thn first major hint that "The X-files" is in its final snason. which practically forces the show's creator, Chris Carter, to find some kind of' spectacularly satis­fying climax and resolution to put the show lo rnst for good. 
Besides this quandary Carter put vinwBrs in, there are several other c1unstions brought up by the informa­
a primitive African native and a In the second part of the premiere, saving humanity? But where are the
tion-packml season debut. 
Navajo elder, Albert Hosteen (seen in when all goes back to "normal," aliens? an episode last season). propelled Mulder tells Scully that despite all the
Is "The X-lilcs" a bedtime story an Scully into questioning her own mis­craziness that he's witnessed and Yeah, wher(l arc the aliens?
elder Dana Scully (Gillian Anderson) 
sion and role in the X-files. experienced, she is the one constant, The aliens were rampant in "The X­
is telling to her grandkids'! 
Together, the imaginations of his one true friend. Scully said to files" movie, and then the first half of'
Tlw enlirl' length nf thtJ series' run 
Mulder and Scully force viewers to Mulder, ditto. But then, there was a the season following the summer ofhas bt!<1n marked by the voicn-over 
wonder how much of the past six sharing of lips at least on Scully's 1998. Where did they go? Are they
work of' Scully, in a diary-like ques­
years has been "real" or simply imag­part. But the location on Mulder's simply in hibernation, waiting to
tioning of Urn events that go on in the ined. For the sake of this television face was cinematographically warped. strike humanity when it expects it thefictional sci-Ii world. 
season, it's best to believe only visual Did they kiss mouth to mouth? Or was least? Are they still running around in
Is this men\ omnisciencn taken by 
fuzziness me11ns something is not it mouth to eye? Arizona, reproducing inside the stom­tlw show's writnrs? Or is it a sign that real. But who knows in Mulder-Scully Wherever it is, one senses these two achs of human beings? Are they sub­in Urn end, Scully is tlrn only one left world? to be soul mates. Perhaps they will tly mating with humans, producing astanding'! Does Mulder eventually die 
never actually do the deed. But their super-race of humans that will live
lmcausc or the X-liles'? And if Scully is 
Is the cigarette-smoking man real­love is evident. and this episode only beyond the coming "extinction?"
tdling this story to her grandkids, are 
ly Mulder's father? made that clearer. Or did they just all become visions
they Mulder's grandkids as well? /\nd 
Or was that just a cheap, viewer­of spacecraft? This seems to be thewhat kind of grandmother would tell 
attracting allusion to the most famous Is Mulder the savior? most common image on "The X-files"
lwr grand kids stories about death, 
paternal revelation in sci-ri circles -All signs say yes. But it seems there this season. The final episode last sea­dnstruction u11d conspiracy'! 
Mr. Vader and his son. Luke? Note may be several "saviors" out there. son and the first this season were that this revelation came at a point in Until now, though, the Christ heavily into the codes found on vari­
!low do viewers know "The X-files" 
the episflde where Mulder was begin­imagery has been limited. But with ous spacecraft. Mulder's imagination
isn't going t,o end with Mulder or 
ning Lo enter his imagination phase. the vision of Mulder sprawled out on a included making a spacecraft out of
Scully waking up from a dream, 
But remember, cigarette-smoking lab table in a loincloth, with a crown sand with the boy he visits in his
thinking, "lley, that was W(lird"? 
man was al.so Agent Spenrler's dad. on his head, it is clear Mulder was dreams. But is it really a spacecraf'l''
If' anything, tlrn show's premiere 
Perhaps he is everyone's dad. Of intended as some kind of Christ fig­Or simply some kind of ancient piece
suggcstncl that the imagination works course. that would make Mulder and ure. of humanity that was simply rediscov­in 111yst1iriuus ways. Viowers W(ll'll 
Scully brother and sister, which would This, of course. makes one realize ered?
al,ln to pnak into the vast minrl of 
totally deflate the series into the Mulder will die for the X-files ­
Muldt:r, !naming lw visits a young boy maim of The !lardy lfoys or "Will and something already hinted at by lleally, there are too many questionsof'tpn in his dreams -perhaps him­Grace." But iL would answer the next Scully's voice-over. to ask after "The Sixth Extinction" s1•lf as a child. Tlw episod11 also took c1uesti()n ... ended. And though "The X-f'iles" has 
vitiwors 011 a trip into au altnrnato Can viewers count on human boen shrouded in mystery sincP its 
univ1•rsP in which M1dd1\r choosns Aru Mulder and Scully going to extinction within the show'! inception, hopcl'ully, in what stiems to
"crcalurn comforts" ovnr the X-filcs. 
hook up? As the episode's title suggests, some be the last season of th<~ series, there 
This trip was nntirely in Mulder's The show has been praised for its kind of extinction will occur. Past will be some more sweeps spoctacu­
llf'ad. 
lack of willingness to throw the main episodes, including the 1998 film, lars that will "shed light" on these For Srnlly, it was an episode ol' hal­characters into the love sack. Critics imply that aliens will destroy humani­mysteries. Until that happens, keepluci11ntions. as science would label 
have called Mulder and Scully the ty. So if it does happen. how are questioning the truth, trust no one 
tlwm, or spiritual visits, as a spiritual­soxiest couple never to have sex. Will Mulder and Scully involved"! Will they and wait for whatever end may be ist would. In tlrn tH1d, thnse visits from this go on much longer? stop it? Is this how Mulder will die, coming. 

.. a ca ~­
r 
I I 
page,12 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, November 17, 1999 
NBA 

Iverson's 35 lead ·sixers over hapless Wizards, 95-73 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Allen Iverson scored 39 points as the Philadelphia 76ers handed the Washington Wizards their seventh straight loss. 95-73 Tuesday night. 
The 76ers raced to a 21-3 lead and went on to win their third game in a row. 
The Wizards, who haven't won since opening night.. are off to their worst start in 33 years and their reserves outscored their ineffective starters for the third consecu­tive game. 
Washington missed its first 14 shots and had five turnovers before Rod Strickland made the team's first field goal, an 11-foot jumper with 1:58 left in the first quarter that closed the gapto21-5. 
Wizards coach Car Heard threatened wholesale changes in the starting lineup because the backups had outscored the starters two games in a row. Instead, he stuck with the usual starting five of Strickland, Juwan Howard, Mitch Richmond, Michael Smith and Isaac Austin, but all were on the bench seven min­utes into the game. 
Richmond, in particular, continued to struggle. He was 3-for-13 with eight points in 17 minutes. His backup, rook­ie Richard Hamilton, scored 17 points before fouling out with 5:36 remaining. Washington's reserves outscored the team's starters 39-34. 
The 76ers' biggest first-half lead was 31-10, but nine sec­ond-quarter points from Hamilton helped close the deficit to 47-35 at halftime. 

Iverson made 13 of 27 shots, including three straight jumpers in an 11-2 run after Washington closed to 49-42 in the third period. 
Billy Owens scored 18 points for the 76ers. 
Howard, who had 13 points, was the only starter in double figures for the Wizards, who shot 1O percent in the first quarter and 34 percent for the game. 
Raptors 89, Pistons 85 
Antonio Davis had 24 points and 15 rebounds and Charles Oakley hit two jumpers in the closing minutes as the Toronto Raptors beat the Detroit Pistons. 
After Oakley hit a 12-foot jumper to tie the game 85-85 with 1 ,30 remaining, Davis blocked a layup attempt by Jerome Williams, who scored a career-high 28 points for Detroit. 
Following a steal by Toronto's Doug Christie, Muggsy Bogues pushed the ball up court and passed to Oakley, who sank a 12-footer to give Toronto the lead. 
Jerry Stackhouse missed a jumper for Detroit before Bogues made two free throws to seal the victory. 
Stackhouse also scored 28 points for the Pistons, who lost to the Raptors by 17 points at home last week. 
With four guards and Davis on the floor in the second quarter, Davis scored 12 points as Toronto took a 3­point halftime lead. 
The Raptors led by eight points in the second quarter, but Oakley committed five 
turnovers, three of which led to dunks by Williams. · 
Trailblazers 101, Heat 96 
Rasheed Wallace scored 22 points and Portland ran off nine consecutive points down the stretch to beat the Miami Heat. 
The teams came into the game tied for the best record in the NBA at 6-1. The defeat snapped the Heat's five-game winning streak. 
Wallace's final basket start­ed the Trail Blazers' 9-0 run and put them ahead 88-87 ­the eighth and last lead change. Scottie Pippen made two free throws, them hit a 3· pointer to make the score 95­87 with 2 1/2 minutes io go. 
Miami was never closer than five points the rest of the way. 
Alonzo Mourning scored 23 points for the Heat, but they fell shy of 100 points for only the third time. Jamal Mashburn added 21 points, and Tim Hardaway had 17 points and 10 assists. 
Pippen had 20 points and 13 rebounds for the Blazers. who shot 51 percent. 
Their starting front line of Pippen, Wallace and Arvydas Sabonis was a combined l 9­for-31. 
Wallace beat P.J. Brown twice for acrobatic alley-oop dunks, including the game's first basket off the opening tip. 
Miami shot 63 percent to take a 45-37 lead. Portland then scored 12 points in a row, including back-to-back 3­pointers by Pippen, to go ahead 49-45. 
The Heat missed nine of 10 shots during one stretch, then warmed up again and took their first lead of the-second half, 79-77, on Voshon Lenard's 3-pointer. Conse­cutive 3-pointers by Dan Majerle put Miami ahead 85­82 with 7:27 to go. 

Bucks 101, Clippers 93 
Glenn Robinson scored 24 points and Sam Cassell had 20 points and nine assists as the Milwaukee Bucks beat the Los Angeles Clippers. 
The Bucks, who began the year with five of sev(\n games on the road, remained unbeat­en at home. Rav Allen added 19 points and six assists for Milwaukee as the Clippers, playing the second game of a five-game road trip, f6sl their fourth straight. 
Derek Anderson had 27 points for Los Angeles before getting hurt in a collision with Milwaukee's Oanny Manning early in ihe fourth quarter. After laying on the court for three minutes, Anderson was helped to the locker room and didn't return. 
Clippers coach Chris Ford returned to Milwaukee for the first time since being fired by the Bucks and replaced by George Karl last year. He was greeted with indifference from the Bradley Center crowd, which saw Karl return the Bucks to the playoffs last sea­son for the first time in seven years. 
The lead changed hands 25 times and neither team was ahead by more than six points until Cassell stole the ball from Eric Murdock and drove the length of the court for a layup that gave Milwaukee an so::-73 advantage rriom·ents after Anderson left. The bas­ket was part of a 12-2 run that put the Bucks up 86-75. 
Lamar Odom had 22 points and 10 rebounds for the Clippers, who were already without starting forward Maurice Taylor because of a sprained foot. Brian Skinner had 10 points and 17 rebounds for Los Angeles. 
Los Angeles pulled within 96-91 with 2:38 left, but Milwaukee took a six-point lead into the final minute. and the Clippers elected not to foul intentionally as the Bucks grabbed a pair of offonsive rebounds and eventually ran out the clock. 
Los Angeles was hurt by poor shooting. Starters Tyrone Nesby and Troy Hudson were a combined 6-for-26 from the floor, and Odom was 3-J'or-7 from the free-throw hne. 
Mavericks 114, Rockets 95 
Michael Finley scored 28 points and reserve Cedric Ceballos had 19 as the Dallas Mavericks stopped Houston's six-game winning streak at Reunion Arena. 
Dirk Nowitzki, the victim of a flagrant foul that touched off a mid-court shoving match in the second quarter, scored 16 points and Robert Pack had 12 points and 10 assists for the Mavericks. 
Rockets rookie point guard Steve Francis was ejected after he pulled down Nowitzki, who was attempting a layup, with 2:57 left in the first half and the Mavericks ahead 48­43. 
Nowitzki fell to the ground, scrambled to his feet and rnacted angrily. Both teams converged and began pushing and shoving, with Francis tak­ing a shove at Pack in the mid­dle of the tangle. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. ar rhe Notre Dame office, 024 Somh Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

gmbid.com is a pre IPO start-up  FOR SALE  SELL & BUY GA FOOTBALL TICK­ www.NOToday.com  
NOTICES  luxury auction web site, pioneered by Georges Marciano, the founder of Guess? Jeans. We are looking  N.D. FOOTBALL TIX CALL 271-9412  ETS 277-6519  PERSONAL  Babysitter needed for 4-year old, transportation required. Tues. &  
for a part time campus representa•  Phone Cards  669min. $20  FOR SALE  Thurs. 2:45-7:45 or  5:30-7:45 for  
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center PHONE 631-COPY www.CopyShopNO.com  live to join us in arranging local pro­motions, PR, giveaways, e-mail campaigns, sponsorships, etc. Must be interested in marketing, a self­starter, fun, and a team player.  243-9361 or 258-4805 SPRING BREAK 2000 PANAMA CITY BEACH FLORIDA FROM $149 PER PERSON SAND­ BC & Stanford tix. Best Prices AM -232-2378 PM -288-2726  Gay, Lesbian and Bisexual students of ND/SMC meeting each Thurs. For info call: (877)631-60UT  Spring semester. Experience with children preferred but not necessary_ Call Beth at 254-9060 or email at • BLP1975@aol.com.  
Store Hours  Please email resumes to: reps@gmbid.com  PIPER BEACON BEACH RESORT THE "FUN PLACE"!  ND Football tix BOUGHT & SOLD  Quality Copies, Quickly1  $100  REW AR 0  
Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm Sat: Noon-6:00pm  Free CD of cool indie music when you register at mybytes.com, the ultimate website tor your college  TIKI BEACH BAR ENTE~TAIN­MENT BY BOOGIE INCORPORAT­ED BIKINI CONTESTS MALE HARD BODY CONTESTS  AM · 232-2378 PM -288-2726 FOR SALE  We're open early, late, & weekends. T\-\s&Q,lj¥1fil10P LaFortune Student Center  5' by 20' MICHIGAN Banner miss­ing from NO vs UM game.Please Call 4-1854  
Sun: Noon-Midnight  needs.  3 POOLS LAZY RIVER RIDE  N.O. FOOTBALL TICKETS  Phone 631-COPY  HAPPY BIRTHDAY MARIA!  
--­ LOST &.FOUND  If you can bring package from Phila/S. Jersey to ND, call 272­2883  WATER SLIDE HUGER BEACHFRONT HOT TUB MINI GOLF GIFT SHOP SUITES UP TO 10 PEOPLE  CALL 271-9412 I need one BC ticket Call Holden  Quality Copies, Quickly!  Hope you have a great day-please don't study loo hard. Love,Your Boys in the  
LOST: CRUCIFIX WITH BROWN BEADS BEFORE BREAK. KEEP• SAKE. PLEASE CALL CAROL AT 631·  FOR RENT ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE  1-800-488-8828 WWW.SANDPIPERBEACON.COM SPRING BREAK 2000 Cancun, Mazatlan, Acapulco, Jamaica & S Padre  634-4788 BUYING AND SEL.:LING NOTRE DAME VS. BOSTON COLLEGE TICKETS. CALL 289-8048.  Spring Break 2000 Free Trips & Meals. Jamaica,Cancun,Bahamas,Barbad os,Florida,Padre.Book now for Free Meals & 2 Free Trips_Book before Dec. 17 lor LOWER PRICES!!  Manor 7-Man Shayna-i love you the best better than all the rest that i meet in the summer  
7484.  HOME FOR ND-SMC EVENTS.  Reliable TWA flights. Biggest  1800-426-7710  'Matthew  
LOST: Silver Charm Bracelet lost in middle of October High sentimental value. x3727 -Megs WANTED Free One Bedroom Apartment near  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 243-0658. WALK TO SCHOOL http://mmmrentals.homepage.com 232-2595 or mmm.rentals@aol.com FOR SALE Spring Break Specials'Bahamas  Parties&_ Best packages. Book by Dec. 1 & SAVE up to $200! 1.800.SURFS.UP www.studentexpress.com 87 VOLVO 740 GLE, CLEAN, GREAT CONDITION. Loaded, leather heated seats, air, new tires, etc. $3000. 219-234-9755 MINT! 46,000 MILES ..  4 BC Tickets Needed! Must be close to field. WIiiing lo pay big $. Call Brad @ 232-3464 Need as many BC tickets tor as close to face as possible for friends and family. Help me out. Cal! Brian at 634-3346 • 12 BC GA's. Must sell. Call Dennis  www.sunspfashtours.com STUDENT WORK Vector Marketing Corp. is now filling p/1 cust sales & sel'\/ice positions. Flex. around class. Transfers avail. over'breaks. $10.55 base-appt. Good resume exp. scholarships awarded, oond. apply. . call mon-wed 12:30-5:30pm 282-2357  pq­-cincy doesn't sound so good, eh? it'll be ok .·I think we should play Real World Chicag0 JD ... you suck odie ­thanks tor the book. I  
Campus  Party Cruise 5 Days $279! Includes Meals! Awesome  '92 WHITE SATURN 4 DOOR SEDAN.STICK.  1-914-654-9200:  believe in ND again. The ND of 1924.  
A family with three children seeks fun.energetic student or graduate to live in charming apartment for  Beaches,Nightlife!Cancun & Jamaica 7 Nights From $399! FLonda  $5.800 217-7185  2 B.C GA's FOR l;,ALE!! Call Kim @ 634-3534  Looking for a unique gift idea? How about a personalized color pie· ture calendar?  JD ... Veva thinks you suck, too.  
FREE in exchange for mutually  129!springbreaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386  TICKETS  Bring in 12 of your favorite pictures . e1nd we'll do the restl!!  Way to go Petro!'!!  
agreeable babysitting responsibili­ties.Fax name.phone# and brief· note describing experience and  FOR SALE N D FOOTBALL TIX  WANTED NOTRE DAME FOOT­BALL TICKETS  2 BC tix wanted. Prefer lo upgrade to GA. will pay for 11x &all fees, etc. B111247-1914  THE COPY SHOP Lafortune Student Center •  LL-how 'bout dem FCs? Love dem rolls, eh buddy?  
interests to Walker at 233-2308.  CALL271-9412  271-1526  www.thecommentator.com  Petro our broornball gods!!!  

--------------------------------------------,-------,-----,-.,----r-------.-~---c.. 
Wednesday, November 17, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
-y----,-,-----,-.-­
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Minnesota basketball faces trying times 
. Monson denies Przybilla transfer 
Associated Press 
MINNE/\POI.IS N1iw Min1rnsota haskntball c:nach Dan Monson says 7-f'oot­
sophomore cnnt1n· Jo(d l'rzybilla isn't considering a transfor to another school and will rnturn to practice Wednesday. 
Przyhilla is the Golden Gophers' 1.np returning scorer and tho nnly star in a program rockod by an academic fraud scandal I.hat led to coach Clem llaskins' rlcparluro last sum­
m1ir. 
Przybilla left Sunday's prac­tice early to attend to what Monson called "personal issues" and wasn't at Williams Arena on Monday night for the (;ophers' 84-69 exhibition vic­t,ory over Ural Great of Russia. 
His father, noug, said his son's absence concerned a family problem. Athletic direc­tor Mark Dienhart said he was told by Monson that Przybilla was worn out and had asked for a day off. 
That led to speculation that Przybilla was considering leav­ing the program, something Monson denied Tuesday. 
"I've got to rnspect Joel, and he's asked this to be a person­al issue," Monson said. "His situation is one that l respect and I hope that everybody else does. He's going to be at prac­tice tomorrow at 3:30, like every other kid now, and he's said that everything is resolved." 
A team spokesman said Przybilla would issue a state­ment before Wednesday's workout hut wouldn't address the matter until then. 
The Gophers open their sea­son Saturday against Texas­l\rlington. 
The university has banned the team from postseason play this season, but that doesn't include the Hig Ten tourna­ment. 
The NCAA is widely expected to add at least a year's proba­tion when it issues its findings. 

··································································•···· 
TODAY 
The Kellogg Institute presents: 
Democratic Jransition and Civil Society in Bangladesh: Musings ofal.Atin Americani,st on Asia • 
Raymond Offenheiser, President, OXFAM America 
4:l5p.m. Auditorium, Hesburgh.Center for International Studies 

....,.,.,,,,,,..,... TOMORROW 
.,Jlffe$.hterfor Sociar:@8ncems will sponsor:
lkF~CiJ.Xtam~ountry.
This year be amongfue one million.people who will help fight 
,,i-~ije~~9rt~~i'.;:,::l 
• Join ND students and faculty for asimple meal ofbeans and rice followed by apresentation by NDAlum Ray Offenheiser 
7:00 p.m. Admission is a$3 donation 
················•~···················································· 
• More academic scandals emerge 
Associated Press 

MINNEAPOLIS 
Recent interviews with several Minnesota men's basketball players have changed what investigators know about alleged miscon­duct. the Stai-Tribune reported Tuesday. 
Jason Stanford, Antoine Hroxsie and Miles Tarver were originally questioned before they and a fourth player were suspended from the Golden Gophers' opening game of the NCAA tournament in March in Seattle. The Gophers lost to Gonzaga. 
An unidentified source with direct knowledge or the questions that investiga­tors have been asking told the newspaper that some recent questions have focused on w)lether former coach Clem Haskins urged players not to tell "the whole truth" when they were first questioned eight months ago about alleged fraud. 
Haskins resigned under pressure in June and took a $1.5 million contract buyout in the face of the allega­tions. He denied knowing about any wrongdoing. A message left Tuesday at Haskins' home in Minnetonka wasn't returned. 
Minnesota president Mark Yudof said last Friday that a draft of the investiga­tive report, which he had read, could change because of "an important witness." He wouldn't elaborate except to say that the wit­ness was not Alonzo Newby, a former academic adviser for basketball play­ers who has been implicat­ed in the investigation but has refused to be inter­viewed. 
Broxsie is considered an important witness because he allegedly worked closely with Jan Gangelhoff, a for­mer office manager in the academic counseling unit. 
She has said she complet­ed about 400 pieces of course work for at least 20 players, including the four who were suspended, 
between 1993 and 1998. 
She has shown reporters 
about 30 papers with 
Broxsie's name on them. Gangelhoff continued to work with Broxsie even 
after Newby, who allegedly coordinated the work, was 
told she wasn't supposed to. 
... 

NCAA 
CBS, ABC 
vie for 
contract 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

After being left out of last week's NASCAH TV deal, CBS and Disney's ABC­ESPN are the front-runners for the NCAA men's basket­ball tournament. 
Formal presentations will be made Wednesday and 
-

Thursday at the NCAA's Indianapolis headquarters, and an announcement could come by the end of the week. The new deal is expected to be worth about $400 million a year. 
CBS, the incumbent, is in the fourth year of a seven­year. $1.73 billion contract that expires after 2002. 
However, the NCAA has elected to negotiate a new deal, which is to begin in 2003 and expected to include marketing rights. The marketing rights to the tournament are held by Host Communications, and CBS and Host are expected to present the NCAA with a combined offer. 
"The presentations will -­be on a broad range of top­ics. There is no timetable for when a decision will be made," NCAA spokesman Wally Renfro said. 
The NCAA ended CBS' exclusive negotiating period in August. The network has broadcast the event since 1982, when it acquired the tournament from NBC. It added the early rounds, which had been broadcast by ESPN, in 1990. 
"We remain interested and feel the college basket­ball fan would be best served with an ESPN-ABC package," ESPN spokesman Mike Soltys said Monday. 
ESPN has said the advan­tage of having Disney broadcast the tournament is that viewers could watch all the games nationally. 
CBS, which declined to comment, doesn't show all the games nationally in the early rounds, but it could team with a cable partner to do so. 
CBS' primary competition may be ABC-ESPN, but Fox and its cable partners, Fox. .,. ­Sports Net and FX, remain interested even after land­ing a share of the NASCAR package. NBC, which has the NBA, is not interested in the NCAA tournament. 
"The results or NASCAR makes CBS clearly the favorite to renew its rights," said former CBS sports president Neal Pilson, who runs a consult· ing firm. "They already have it and they lost NASCAR." 
One of Pilson's clients is the Swiss marketing firm. ISL, which has positioned itself with Fox in the bid­ding process, 
ISL vice president Jim Wheeler said in August that his company would be pre­pared to offer the NCAA $4 billion for 1O years to secure the rights for TV, the Internet. licensing. marketing and sponsorship. 

OOWBOYMQUTH 


Col,O\ll\~ Ol.\t of t-tew O\'leO\I\S wi.tlr. hits ':Jel\\\')' S°'ys" 0\1\.-A. ''\,\ow Do Yoi,. ,ell ~o~ol\e?", Cowboy 1-\ol..\rh c~s to ~o+ve 1)....""le ~ow-to"',,ht o"ly: 
pl""yi"'~ O\r $tepA" Ca~ Gd-yc,v.'f +k\:ek ...,+,-~~ "'Cl\¼-~~ $tO~i-/$12GA 
;­
.. 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, November 17, I 999 
NHL 

Pens beat Sabres, lose Jagr to injury 
Associared Press 
PITTSBURGH 
Jaromir Jagr's season-long scoring streak ended with a groin injury, but the P~ttsburgh Penguins got three qmck goals in the first period and made them hold up Tuesday night to beat Buffalo 3-2. 
Jagr, the NHL scoring leader with 33 points in 16 games, left with a strained groin just aftN the Penguins scored three goals in a span of 3:04 midway !o chase rookie goaltender Martm Biron. 
Jagr missed four games of the Penguins' first-round play_off upset of New Jersey last spnng with the same injury. His status for Thursday's game at Tampa Bay was not immediately known. 
Jagr's 2.2 points per game scoring pace is the highest over a sustained stretch since Wayne Gretzky averaged 2.3 over a 25­game span in 1990-91. He had at least one point in each of the Penguins' first 15 games and was on a Gretzky-like pace to score 180 points. . 
German Titov, Alexei Kovalev and Matthew Barnaby scored for the Penguins, who won their third in a row at home despite being shut out for the final 2 1/2 periods by Sabres backup goal­tender Dwayne Roloson. 
The Penguins have won three of four since a 2-7-3 start and are unbeaten in nine home games (7-0-2) against Buffalo since March 1996. 
Goaltender Jean-Sebastien Aubin stopped 19 of 21 shots as Buffalo lost its third in a row on a four-game road trip after win­ning four straight. 
Titov scored his fourth of the season at 10:12 of the first, pouncing on a loose puck in the lower slot and throwing it under Biron's glove. Kovalev scor_ed 
1:18 later, his seventh, on a mce sequence that saw Kip Miller backhand the puck to Robert Lang, who quickly snapped a pass to Kovalev, who one-timed it by Biron. 
Barnaby, who had only two goals in 41 games since being traded by Buffalo to Pittsburgh in March, got his first of the sea­son on a breakaway at 13:16. He held back at the blue line as Pittsburgh gained control, took Kovalev's breakout pass and slid the puck between Biron's pads. 
Coyotes 2, Flames 1 
Trevor Letowski ended Phoenix's power-play drought and Jeremy Roenick also scored as the Coyotes beat the Calgary Flames. 

Bob Essensa made 34 saves for the Coyotes to improve to 3­0-1 as Mikhail Shtalenkov's backup. Letowski's goal was the Coyotes' first in 17 chances with the man advantage. 
Roenick gave Phoenix a 2-0 lead 28 seconds i.nto thP. second period. Tommy Albelin scored a shorthanded goal with 5:54 left for the Flames, whose five victo­ries have all come in overtime. 
The Coyotes were last in the NIIL in power-play success at home, scoring on 10 percent of their opportunities. 
But the average went up late in the first period, when Flames goalie Frnd Brathwaite tried to clear the puck and flipped it over the glass, incurring a delay-of-game penalty with seven seconds left in a penalty on Calgary's Jarome lginla. 
Calgary was able to ~ill the first penalty, but Letowski m~de good during the seco~d, takmg a pass from Radoslav Suchy and firing a low shot through traffic with 1 :29 left in the period. 
Roenick opened the second with his eighth goal when a shot from the blue line by bounced out to him just outside the crease. Roenick easily put the puck behind Brathwaite into an empty net. 
Phoenix's Greg Adams had a goal disallowed later in the sec­ond period because he crashed into the net before the puck crossed the goal line. 
Albelin got to the rebound of a shot by Travis Brigley and fired a wrist shot from the circle that cost Essensa his first shutout in nearly three years. 
Canadians 4, Sharks 1 
Former Montreal captain Vincent Damphousse assisted on Owen Nolan's two goals as the San Jose Sharks beat the Canadiens. 
Damphousse, facing the Canadiens for the first time since-he was dealt to San Jose at the trading deadline last sea-. son, has six goals and 16 assists this season. 
Gary Suter and Alexander Korolyuk added goals, and Mike Vernon made 25 saves to help the Sharks end a four-game winless streak. Karl Dykhuis scored for Montreal. 
Nolan, who has 14 goals this season, gave San Jose a 2-1 lead with a power-play goal at 7:25 of the second period. He tapped Jeff Friesen's pass by goalie Jeff Hackett. 
Suter scored 11 :01 into the 
third, and Nolan made it 4-1 on 
a pass from Damphousse at 
14:47. 
NFL 

Cowher vents frustration 
Associatea Press 
PITTSBURGH 
Bill Cowher finally bared the emotion he has hidden all sea­son on Tuesday, saying he is frustrated with the uneven play of Kordell Stewart and lhe rest of the Pittsburgh Steelers. 
Until now, Cowher has been unusually calm and contem­plative during an up-and-down season. But he hinted he will make changes unless the Steelers (5-4) play more con­sistently. 
Cowher was spurred by a 16-15 loss to the expansion Cleveland Browns that he called "as frustrating and as disappointing as any since I've been the coach of this team." 
His remarks were echoed by team president Dan Rooney, who said last week's loss ranks either first or second among the worst in his nearly half-century with the team. The Browns were 1-8 and had lost 43-0 to the Steelers in September. 
"This team can play with anybody. But we haven't shown ability to do it for 60 minutes, and that's the hurdle we have to get over. A lot of it is up in the mind," Co~her said, pointing demonstratively to his head. 
Cowher, who in recent sea­sons has toned down the emo­tional sideline outbursts that once were his trademark, denied he has become soft on his players, especially Stewart, or more tolerant of mistakes and penalties. 

"I am who I am," Cowher said, his voice rising with nearly every word. "I haven't changed. My fire has never been greater. I don't think I've changed my approach for the game and my passion for the game. 
"When that day comes, it will be time for me to move on, and that time hasn't come." 
He paused for a moment, then interrupted the next question by asking, "ls that the me you're used to?" 
Last year, Cowher signed a $2 million a year contract extension that begins next year. Since then, the exten­sion, the Steelers missed the playoffs for the first time since his hiring in 1992, and they are threatening to sit them out again this season. 
Cowher admitted to being tougher on some players than others, but only because, he reasoned, a coach can't expect all players to have the same talent or emotional makeup. 
"Certainly to some extent, I have changed since l came here, and the scrutiny is such that you're darned if you do and darned if you don't," he said. "But I don't want the focus to be on me. At the same time, I haven't lost the ability to convey to the players how I feel, and they know that." 
Cowher blamed Sunday's defeat on the inconsistency that has dogged the Steelers 
all year, notably· an offense that has been held to three touchdowns in four home games. The starting offense hasn't had a sustained touch­down drive at home, scoring only on drivP.s of 11 and 8 yards that followed turnovers. 
Stewart, who hasn't thrown for more than 140 yards in a month, repeatedly underthrew his receivers or forced the ball into double coverage. His interception late in the fourth quarter led to a Browns touch­down and, ultimately, their game-winning field goal. 
Cowher has long been pro­tective of Stewart and his frag­ile ego, even when the quar­terback failed to throw a touchdown pass during the final month of last season. But Cowher was unusually critical Tuesday, saying the Steelers can't afford for Stewart to keep playing so erratically. 
"I am dissatisfi'cd with the consistency we're getting ... not just with him, but the othe;· players as well," Cowher said. "You can say, "Well, he's a young player with a new offense,' but I don't want to have excuses for failure. People don't want to hear it." 
As for possible lineup changes, Cowher said, "You have to continue to have faith in what we're doing, trust in it and apply hard work, and [make] the changes that need to be. At this point, I don't foresee any, but we'll continue to look at it from week to week." 

HOMES FOR RENT 


-Domus Properties has six, -seven, and eight bedroom houses available 
-Student neighborhoods close to campus 
-Security systems provided 
-Well maintained homes 
-Maintenance staff on call 
Available for the 2000/2001 school year BETTER HURRY!!! ONLY 4 HOUSES LEFT 
Contact Kramer (219)274-1501 or (219)234-2436 or (219)674-2572 


• NCAA 3rd Rotb'ld • 
#5 Notre Dame vs # 8 Stanford 
Friday, 7:30pm at Alumni Field 
WOMEN'S SOCCER
First 200 Students free admission 
CIIAMP ONSHIP 

Wcdne.sday, November 15, 1999 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
.CDP7 
.com .com .com .com .corn .com .com 
.corn .con1 .con, .corn 
• cnt·r1 com .com
. ..11,.,d 

.com .com .com .com .corn .com .com .corn .com 

.com .con1 .com com .com .com .com 
l l .com ·.corn .corn .con1 
.corn .corn .com 
Why work for one .com, when you can work for hundreds? 
.com .com .com 
.com 
.com .com .com .corn .com 
.corn .corn com .con1 .com .com .corn .com 
.com .corn ,com 
.com .corn 
.. corn corn 
,.c_om
.. 



, 
.com .com .com .corn .com .con1· .com .com .com 

.con1 .com .com· com .com .com .com .con1 .com .com ,corn 
.corn .co.m .com .com .com .com 
.con1 con1 .com .com .com 

.com .com .con1 ,com .corn corn .com .com .com 

FORTUNE You haven't gotten this far by limiting
.corn .corn 


100-..~~~~ •• your possibilities. And if you want to 
~IEI

TO WIRK flll go even farther, consider the possibilities at Ernst & Young. You'll have access to sorne of the most 

.com .con1 .com 
sophisticated tools in the technology industry and work with some of the companies 'that help define it. Log on. www.ey.com 

.com com 

-


..... 
I 

---. -­

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, November 17, 1999 

MIAA AWARDS 

Bill, Barger honored as first terun All-MIAA 
Special to The Ob•erver 
Agnes Bill, a senior captain for the Belles volleyball team, was named to the Michigan Intercollegiate Athletic Association's first team for the 1999 season, 
Bill was named All-MlAA for the 1998 vollevball season as well as being· named to the Association's first team and player of the week's honor roll for that season. 
Saint Marv's freshman Emilv Nyhill received an honorable mention in volleyball. 

-
Rhonda Volkers, l'rom Calvin College, was named most valu­able player for the 1999 volley­ball season. 
Saint Mary's junior Katy Barger pulled in first team hon­ors for the women's soccer team, and teammates Mary 

MAJOR LEAGUE-BASEBALL 
Martinez wins second Cy Young 
Associated Press 

-
NEW YORK 
Pedro Martinez pitched another shutout, winning the American League Cy Young Award in a unanimous vote. Now the question is whether he'll be elected Most Valuable Player, too. 
"It would mean a lot, proba­bly more than this Cy Young alone," Martinez said Tuesday after the Cy Young voting was announced. "I've already achieved that, so the MVP would be something different, especially to a pitcher." 
Martinez became only the fourth pitcher to win the AL Cy Young Award unanimously, and joined Gaylord Perry and Randy Johnson, who won his first NL Cy Young on Monday, as the only pitchers to win the honor in each league. 

-< 
Campe, Rachel Egger and Heather Murth received coach­es' honorable mentions. 
This is the first season that the Belles· soccer team has had a player named to the Michigan Intercollegiate Athletic Association's first team. Barger was a coaches' honorable men­tion nominee last season. 
Erin Killian. from Kalamazoo College was named most valu­able player for soccer in the 
MIM. 
Golfers Natalie Cook and Molly Lee recieved second team honors for the Belles. This is the first time in the golf team's history that players from Saint Mary's have received honors from the MIAA. Ellen Colcnbrander, from Hope College, was named golts most valuab.Ie player for the 1999 season. 
Martinez, 23-4 with a 2.07 ERA for the Boston Red Sox, 
•

received all 28 first-place votes for 140 points in balloting by the Baseball Writers' Association of America. 
Baltimore's Mike Mussina was next, getting 16 seconds and six thirds for 54 points, fol­lowed by New York Yankees reliever Mariano Rivera with 27 points, and Cleveland pitcher Bartolo Colon with 14. 
"I pretty much expected it," Martinez said, expressing a view held by virtually everyone in the sport. 
The only previous unanimous AL winners were Denny McLain (1968), Ron Guidry (1978) and Roger Clemens (1986 and 1998). 
Two years ago, Martinez won the NL Cy Young Award for Montreal and gave it to Hall of Farner Juan Marichal. Martinez is keeping this one, 
Football 
continued from page 20 
ed about playing. 
"After that game in Knoxville, the atmosphere in the stadium,• the caliber of that game. it being a night game-all those things [moti­vated us]," Davie added. "But for whatever reason we weren't quite as passionate in the Pittsburgh game." 
Davie could sense some­thing going amok in the week prior to the Pittsburgh game. At last Tuesday's practice and again on Thursday, Davie believed his players were not in their normal state. Even prior to the game, Davie felt a lack of passion from his team. 
"I think everyone in this program would say that you kind of see it [the lack of pas­s ion] coming," Oavie said. "And then not to be able to get it solved during the week [is frustrating]. 
"Not every week are you going to be at the same level," he added. "But for us. right now, we have to be at that level to win. That both­ers me. It bothers me that I felt like we had been making continual progress." 
Early in the season, the Irish lost two close road games at Michigan and at Purdue, then another a week later at home against Michigan State. But they showed resiliency in October, 
NEWS AMERICA MARKETING 
AN~C.uflr>OAATI<lNColdn!.:,.,,y 

Great Career 
Opportunities · 
in Sales and Marketing 
" 
::.l" I! . ······ ~..
(.·: :\·t~ uranus 
·. -:~-::-;_\:?.t-~
'"·?\ ~·~~··:<P::~-. ' .

.,t• "s.&~.. ·a,,., 'J/IP' Wednesday, November 17th
~~-)I' ~ ,/3:.,.._, 

6:30 p.m. -8:30 p.m. Notre Dame Room at The Morris Inn Room 
All Majors Welcome • 3.0 Minimum GPA Refreshments Will Be Served 
single... source tT1arke'tinVsi ~en,ice~~
. 
Please Recycle The Observer. 
J 
recording a perfect 4-0 record on the month to get their season back to a respectable 5-3 record. 
A week ago, at Tennessee, the Irish were matched up against a more talented team. In other words, an opponent that the Irish knew would be tough to beat. 
Then came Saturday against Pittsburgh. Granted, the Panthers were playing their final game at Pitt Stadium, so the emotions were on the side of the home team. Hut the Irish still felt they had they had enough firepower to combat the Panthers. They were wrong. 
"I thought we took a step back against Pittsburgh," Davie said. "Did we play hard enough to win? Probably. But not as passionate as we had to play in that environment to win. And that bothers me." 
More than a physical prob­lem, Davie believes the lack of passion emanates above the shoulders. 
"I think it !passion) is a mindset," Davie said. "That responsibility falls on all of us. But the bottom line is it falls on the players to be emotionally ready to play." 
"Was that [the lack of pas­sion] the main reason we didn't win?" he said. "I can't say that. But I think we could have won the game if we would have just been burning up. "Maybe like we were at the end of the USC game. I think the first step is to address it and I think we have." 
Instead of practicing on Monday night on the field, the Irish used the four-hour time block to watch both Pittsburgh and Boston College game footage, After the film session, they walked through thfi routine they had set up for Monday. 
Though his players' lack of' passion concerned Davie, he also believes some responsi­bility lies on the coaching staff. 
"The bottom line is your responsibility to have them ready to play and to get that llack of passion] solved," he said. "I don't think we did a good job of that. That is something we addressed Ion Monday]. You hate to learn a lesson the hard way but this football team did." 
In order to be eligible for bowl considerations, the Irish must win their final two games against Boston College and Stanford. 
Though the rncord may not be where he envisioned, Davie believes his team ·s attitude will prncipitatn a strong finish of the 1999 campaign. 
"Hight now the attitude of this football team is that they take it very seriously," he said. "Their µride is hurt; they're a little bit embar­rassed right now. But I think we'll respond favorably to it." 
"I think in the end, when all this is said and done, that we'll be better off maybe f'or having gone through this," Wednesday, November 17, 1999 


Fox 
continued from page 20 
trnnd that has clmerged among tlwm -especially tlrn hig four. 
Penn State started out by pumnrnling lhen top fivn Arizona on the way to compil-

On Wednesday, November 17 from 
2:30 to 3:30, Mr Bill Shore will 
give a presentation at the Hesburgh Center for International Studies Auditorium. Following this 
presentation, Mr. Shore will do a 
book signing for his latest book, 
The Cathedral Within. 

BILL SHORE Is the 
founder and executive 
director of Share Our 
Strength, a national 
nonprofit organization 
that has raised more 
than $82 million to sup­
port anti-hunger and 
antipoverty efforts 
worldwide since its 
founding in 1984 and 
has mobilized tens of 
thousands of individuals 
to contribute 1helr own 
talents to such efforts. 
ATTENTION STUDENTS: 
WHY SELL YOUR USED TEXTBOOKS BACK TO THE BOOKSTORE FOR LESS WHEN YOU CAN SELL THEM DIRECTLY TO ANOTHER STUDENT? CAMPUSMONSTER.COM ALLOWS STUDENTS TO SELL THEIR USED TEXTBOOKS TO OTHER STUDENTS. YOU WILL MAKE MORE MONEY AND YOUR FELLOW STUDENTS WILL SAVE MORE! IT'S THAT SIMPLE. 
LOG ON NOW AND LIST YOUR FALL SEMESTER TEXTBOOKS AND GET ENTERED FOR THE CHANCE TO WIN YOUR NEXT SEMESTERS BOOKS FOR FREE!!!! THAT'S RIGHT WE WILL HOLD A DRAWING ON DECEM­BER 30, 1999 TO FIND THE WINNER OF OUR" SEMESTER FOR FREE" CONTEST YOU WILL RECEIVE 1 ENTRY FOR EVERY BOOK YOU LIST. THE MORE BOOKS YOU LIST THE BETTER YOUR CHANCES OF WIN­NING. 
WHEN YOU'RE THERE, GET THE LATEST SCOOP ON WHAT'S HAPPEN­ING AT YOUR COLLEGE OR AT CAMPUSES AROUND THE COUNTRY. THERE'S ALSO A SECTION WITH UP TO DATE SCORES AND COLLEGE NEWS. 
FROM TEXTBOOK SWAPPING, COLLEGE APPAREL AND GAME TICKETS TO THE LATEST CAMPUS NEWS, IT'S ALL JUST A CLICK AWAY AT CAM­PUSMONSTER.COM 
11usmons1en.com 
"If we don't have it, you can't get it!" 
Wildcats, after that season opening loss to the Nittany Lions, really haven't been heard from since that sunny August afternoon. Their national title hopes have long since moved back to the bas­ketball program. 
Is playing in some early sea­son ''classic" what's causing these programs to lose, espe­cially in November?
No, and I think Davie spoke~ for all the coaches involved when he said: "Don't misintflr­pret -I'm not trying to make a safety net for us. We fully expect. to play our best gamfl of the season this Saturday." 
Obviously, there are many other factors involved in loss­es. 
It is intr.resting, though, to see the progression of these live teams particularly what has happened in the last two weeks. 
Four of them -Notre Dame, Miami, Ohio State and Arizona -no longer crack the top 25, 
page 17 

the first throe all dropping nut at some point in their last tw•1 games. Penn State has fallen · from No. 2 and prime natiornil title contender to No. 13 in 14 days. 
"I think it was, just in this IPittsburgh] football game, I sensed a little lack of passion by our team," Davin said. 
Tho coaches and players on all five of these toams would be the first ones to toll you that this is L111acc11ptable and how, in the words or Davin, "We certainly havo onough left Ito win games!." 
Still. that is an awful long limo to be here. 
I don't even want lo know how I'd feel waking up in my dorm room overy day since last year, no matlcr how many times thBy served N1iapolitan spaghetti in Urn dining hall. 
The views expressed in this column are those <ilht! author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
ing a 9-0 rncord and a No. 2 national ranking. 
The Nittany Lions arc now 9-2 after suffering two straight home losses to the Minnesota Gophers and the Michigan Wolverines, blowing leads in both games. 
Ohio State, om1 of Urn best learns in the country last year, has struggled since day one. 
The Observ;r . SPORTS 
The Buckeyes now stand at 6­5 -their most recent defeat coming al home to the lllinois Fighting Illini by 26 points. 
Miami has fallen victim to its grueling schedule, struggling along just above .500 and dropping from the top 25 this week after getting pounded by the llokics of Virginia Tech. 
The aforementioned Arizona 
CLUB SPORTS 

Ultimate club posts 5-2 record in Knoxville 
Special to The Observer 

The Notre Dame ultimate club posted a strong 5-2 record at the Tennessee Invitational in Knoxville, Tenn. 
In pool play. Nick Creten 's ihree high release forehand points led the club to a 13-6 victory over Emory. The sec­ond round was a highlight reel from start to finish as the Irish dropped an 11-10 gutwrencher to the Michigan Wolverines. 
The Irish rebounded with victories over Middle Tennessee State and Knoxville College. Scott Frymoyer paced the Irish, scoring at least four points in each game Saturday. 
In Sunday's quarterfinals, the Irish cruised past the Indiana Hoosiers, 13-5. In the semis, Notre Dame broke from a 10-10 tie with Georgia Tech, scoring three times to beat the Ycllowjackets 13-10. The championship was a rematch with Michigan. as the Wolverines again won a thriller 13-11. 
Diana Mastej's first place finish in Class 1 open fences at tlrn Saint Mary's of the Woods College Invitational was tho brightest of many line moments f'nr the equestrian club this weekend. Mastej's fifth place in open flat made her one of three riders tplace twice for the club. 
Meganne Hoffman captured third in intermediate 11at and 
fourth in novice fences, while Elaine Hernandez took third and sixth, respectively, in novice fences and novice flat. Other Irish to place in the top six in their competition included Jackie Nesson. sixth intermediate flat; Suzy Weber, fifth intermediate llal. Claire Peterson, fifth novice flat, and Laura Anderson, third advanced walk/troUcanter. 
Several members of the world tac kwando club per­formed wet! in the seventh universal tae kwando champi· onships, hosted in South Bend. Michael McCabn earned gold medals in both board breaking and forms to lead the Irish. 
Nicolo Smith and Andrew llellman also garnernd gold medals in forms, whiln Hellman also brought honrn the silver medal in board breaking. 
The sailing club participated in two evnnts this past week­end. Official results are not yet compiled f'rom the UC­Santa Barbara North-South lntPr-sectinnal whern the experienced sailors raced but the younger nwmbers compel• ed in the Buckeye Blowout at Ohio State. Thny gairrnd valu­able on-the-watnr racing ex pericnce as tlwy n nislwd 15th in Lhe regatta. In tlw A Division, the freshman tandem or skipper David Norton and crew Chip Kellnr posted the best Irish finish with a third place. 
.. 
... 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, November 17, 1999 
... 
8-ball 
continued from page 20 
just tmcler two minutes remain­ing. Troy l\1urphy Lhen made two free throws to give the Irish a four-point cusllion, but two turnovers in the fin al minute allowed Ohio State to pull even. 
Penn made two free throws and thcrn converted a three­point play after a Murphy foul to tie the game at 5 7 with 18.4 sec­onds remaining. The stage was set for Graves dramatic shot. 
The Irish were able to over­come their 23 turnovers and won, despite only four players scoring. 
Murphy finished with a game­high 21 points and 12 rebounds. lngclsby addtH.I 14 and Swanagan had six. 
Senior .Jimmy Dillon was held scoreless but played with poise, committing just four turnovers in 36 minutes. I-le had a game­high four steals. 
"I wanted to go with experi­ence and concentrate on ball handling," Doherty said to the AP. "That's why we went with Martin lngelsby and Jimmy Dillon (two point guards! on the floor together. I was concerned we had 14 turnovers in the first half." 
The Irish were 20-of-40 as a team and connected on 8-of-16 from downtown. Ohio State, however. struggled from the field, shooting just 22-of-66 and 5-of-23 from behind the arc. 
"We missed more shots than 
they took," Ohio State head 
coach Jim O'Brien told the AP. 
"That, plus their turnovers. indi­
cates that we should've won but 
they w,?re very efficient on 
offense. 
Penn led the Buckeyes with 15 
points and Redd added 11, 
despite 4-of-16 shooting. He also 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI 
In its first appearance as a No. 1 team, Cincinnati had problems playing up to its ranking. 
A day after it rose to the top of the poll, Cincinnati over­came slipshod defense and a second-half lapse to beat Athletes in Action 82-70 Tuesday night in its tinal exhi­bition. 
The Bearcats open their sea­son Saturday against Youngstown State. 
There's a lot to work on in the meantime. 
The game was tied at 64 with 5:57 left before the Bearcats inched away by going 8-of-12 from the free throw line over the next two minutes while tiring Alt\ failed to score. 
Kenyon Martin led Cincinnati with 23 points, Steve Logan added 16 points and Jermaine Tate had 13 rebounds as the J3earcats held a 49-38 advantage on the 

PRESEASON NIT 
Utes cruise past Wildcats, 76-43 

Observer Staff Report 
SALT LAKE CITY 
The swarming Utah defense was in midseason form and center Nate Althoff looked great for a guy who wasn't supposed to be available until after Thanksgiving. 
Althoff had 14 points and Jeff Johnsen added 10 Tuesday night and No. 16 Utah allowed six points through the first 1:1 minutes of the second half in a 76-43 vic­tory over Arkansas State in the first round of the Preseason 
NIT. 
Althoff, expected to be out until late this month with a back strain, scored Utah's first two baskets. The injury never bothered him, even when he wont down hard four minutos into the second half on an intentional foul. 
"Nate played pretty well," said Utah coach Hick Majerus, who didn't let Althoff speak with reporters afterward. "Ile was hurt. We weren't sand­bagging. I-le just knows his way around because he's been there for you." 
The Utes advanced to the second round and on Fridaymissed a wide open lay-up with State didn't have its best game, night will play the winner of under 30 seconds left. but those things are going to 
Wednesday night's game
"We just wanted to come out happen. We're lucky to be mov­
between Penn and No. 14 
and not worry about Ohio State, ing on in the NIT." 
Kentucky.
but worry about Notre Dame," The Irish advance to play 
The Indians started the 
Doherty said. "We wanted to Sienna Thursdav in the second 1999-00 season the same waycompete and play bard. I wasn't round. · they ended the last one: with a concerned with the outcome of Sienna defeated Davidson 89­lopsided loss to Utah. The Utes the game. I just wanted our guys 79. The game will be held in beat Arkansas State 80-58 in 
to play hard. Fortunately, Ohio the Joyce Center at 8 p.m. 
the first round of the NCAA tournament last March. Arkansas State point guard Chico Fletcher had four points. 

lirst round of' the Prnseason NIT. 
Gardner scored 1 O points in tlrn. first half' and linislrnd tlrn game with nine assists and thrnc steals. Arenas, who had narrowed his collego choicns to Kansas State and Arizona before deciding to come to Tucson, scored 12 points in the first half and finished with six assists and live steals. 
Arizona took control with a 22-0 run late in tho first hair and led by as many as 32 in Lhe second half to win ib :tfrd consflcutive honrn gam11 and goes for No. 34 against NPw Mexico State, which boat llof'stra 69-55, in the s1~corul round Friday night. 
All five startnrs scornd in double figures l'or Arizona. 
Loren Woods, a 7-foot-1 transfer rrom Wakn r:orcst. scored 15 points. Hichard Jefferson had 15 points and I 0 rebounds and Michael Wright had 11 points and IO boards. 
Galen Morrison and Cortl'z Groves each scored l 3 points for Kansas Statn, which com­mitted 24 turnovers against the quick Arizona defense, including a zone that has rarely been used by coach Lute Olson. 
Tony Kitt and Quentin Buchanan each added 11 points for KSU. 
Arizona built its biggBst lead at 69-37 on Gardner's layup with 11 :59 to play. Kansas State scored 11 straight points lo cut the lead to 70-50 with 
7:55 to play. An 11-4 Arizona spurt ended any rainl KSU comeback hopes. 
Sienna 89, Davidson 79 
Sienna blocked seven shots and shot 35 pPrcent from three point land Lo defnat Davidson in the first round or the preseason NIT and advance to play Notrn DamP in the second round. Dave Deeters led the Saints with 15 points while Corey Osinski and Isiah Stewart each scored 14. 
New Mexico 69, Hofstra 55 
New Mexico out scored 
Hofstra 35-27 in the second 
half to turn a six-point half'~ 
time lead into a 14-point rout 
as the Aggies advancml to tlw 
second round or Urn preason 
NIT with a victory over the 
Statesmen. 
Sophomorn Eric Channing 
led the Aggies with 26 points 
on 8 of 11 shooting. Last yPar, 
Channing averaged just 10.9 
points in his first year of colln­
giate play. 
The Associated Press con­tributed to this story. 

Second-round Preseason NIT tickets for Thursday's game against Sienna are now on 
. %'§ .. •... ...... '·• .. .: . • ,· .. .. 

sale at the JA:fC and.:::;fi'~~-:~ifling 11,,,s dgring·· lunch and dinner. Student:'tickets are $4... 
NCAA BASKETBALL EXHIBITIONS 
Bearcats defend No. 1 ranking 
breaking a string of 33 games scoring in double figures. 
"They took us out of every­thing we wanted to do," Fletcher said. "That's why they're one of the best teams in the country. If I got by one guy, there was another wait­ing for me." 
Jamie Rosser added 13 points to lead the Indians while C.J. Pepper had 11. 
"We came out and double­teamed the pick and then denied Fletcher after that," Johnsen said. "We wanted someone elsp, to try and beat us besides Fletcher and Rosser." 
Utah extended its homecourt boards. David Wood's long 3-pointer winning streak to 36 games, 
AIA combined two of its tied it 64-all with 5:57 left. the third-longest streak in the teams, a challenge that coach AIA missed a 3-pointer and a nation. '"Rh" Bob lluggins welcomed. He layup in the final 2 minutes, 
Arizona 88, Kansas State 69
wanted to see how bis unbal­wasting its final chance to 
Arizona's freshman back­
anced team -a deep and catch up. 
court of Jason Gardner andexperienced front line. three Gilbert Arenas scored 14freshmen in the backcourt ­
Connecticut 73, Down Under points apiece in their debut ashandled a heavy dose of pres­
the 10th-ranked Wildcats
Bandits 52

sure. 
routed Kansas State in the
Senior center Souleymane

Huggins crouched at court­
Wane had 12 of his career­

side, not moving or saying a high 16 points in the first half 
University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents to lead No. 8 Connecticut to a 
word, as he got the answer he 
feared in the lirst half. 
73-52 exhibition victory over

Cincinnati gave· AJA one 
'C!rbe ~otre 110ame <!Cborale & 
the Down Under Bandits. 

uncontested shot after another 
The defending nationalfrom the perimeter -stun­

<[ban1ber ®rcbestra
champions, who lost their reg­ning for a program that prides ular season opener as presea­

itself on in-your-face defense. 
Alexander Blachly, Director son No. 1 to Iowa last weekAIA fired away, going 10-for­and then bounced back with a43 on 3-point attempts. 
Byrd Wert
win over then-No. 10 Duke.

The Bearcats' defense 
Gibbons Schlitz Handel
scored the last 14 points of the

looked lethargic against a 
first half to take a 37 -20 lead. 

team playing its seventh game The game was preceded hy a
in nine days. 
8:00 p.m.
10-minute ceremony t.o unveilHuggins traded a black suit 

jacket for a sweater at half­UConn's NCAA championship Wednesday, November 17 banner at Gampel Pavilion. 
time a1Jd came out a lot more Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
After spotting the Bandits aanimated and vocal. Cincinnati 

3-0 lead. the Huskies took

was more energetic on defense 
.Free & open to the public.
leads of 11-3 and 22-9 overas well as it built a 15-point 

www.nd.edu/-music for more info
the first 10 minutes.

lead, but couldn't sustain it. 
r---------------------------~----------------­
Wednesday, November 17, 1999 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
TOM KEELEY JEFF BEAM
FOURTH AND INCHES A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD 
••so c.L..A.':>5-, WHAT HAVE WE LeA~NEo /---~-­
/t.1 NOTRE: t>AME:? ,u 
!!AC~ tiUMlt.l 
Selij<:. 1'G M 
AL WIS 
BILL AMEND

Fox TROT 
0 

I 1)01,fT UNDERSTAND 
j "1'00 TWo SEEMED To BE 
8ES10ES~ IF IT'S "IME 
WHli' 'YoUR 1 SAID 

WHY "Col)'RE So STRESSED 
1 GETIIN& f\LONC:I PREffi 
81G 01NNER THAT'S 
MoM IS L11CE 
WRoNG

ABouT 'Yoofl MOM CoM!N& 
f WELL TWE LAST TIME SHE 
80THER1NC, Yoo, 
Tl-IE BEST 

FoR 1'iANICS61VnllG. 
f WAS I-IERE. 
Yov CoULD Al.WAYS 
Coot,: E'-IER. AN5WER! 
LET H£R Do 11-iE
"' \ 
I

I 
ci~IN6.
I r ., 
't--~ 
-
beam, 1@nd.edu 

Visit The Observer on the web al http://observer.nd.edu/ 
HOROSCOPE 
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBEI{ 17, 1999 
CELEBRITlES BORN ON THIS DAY: Danny OeVito, Martin Scors­ese, Lauren Hutton, Tom Seaver 
ll.tppy Birthday: You will have to face the f,1cts this year. If something h,1sn't been workmg out in your life, it's time to make the necessary changes. The more you take control, th<' better you will do. You will learn a lot from the process of recognizing, de.ihng with, and moving on from the probl<?ms vou encounter. Your numbers: 4, 17, 20, 28, 32, 44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You need a change· -something adven­turous and exciting. Travel to exotic destinations may be the answer. Take a look at your budget and find a way to make your plans re,,lity. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You c<111 make financ,~l gains if vou t,1ke care of other people's assets or resi­dential changes, as long as you don' l overextend yourseli. 0000 
GEMINi (May 21-June 20): You'll 
L,,, upset if vou'n• ldt with !he 
brunt ot the chores. :-take sure you 
deleg,1te jobs to icln11ly memllers 
before th"}' h,we a ch,111ce to k•,we 
tlw prL•111ises. 00 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Work 
behind the scenes on projects that 
rcqutre detail or precision. Secret 
information will be eye-opening. 
Selt-impnl\'ell1ent projects will be 
successful arid raise your self-esteem. 
00000 . LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your mind will be on pleasure and entertain­ment. Don't forget about your part­ner. Your need to be in the limelight may cause friction with your loved one 1f you forget to include him or her i11 your lu11. 000 VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You'll lw tired of dealing with individuals 
EUGENIA LAST 
who don't ,,11\1 their weight. You are used to giving your all and will be read,· to blow up if rou Me forced lo tolerate \a1.~1• inconsiderate people 
000 
LI BRA !Sept. 23-Oct. 22): It )'<HI try to rush physical jobs, you mav injure )'Ot1rsell. Trv lo a1·01d getting into domestic squabbles. Make sure 
-

you ha,·en'I neglected any of ~'lHlr responsibilities betore you go out. 
000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Dun't ask tor favors. You are likelv to get a negati\'e response that 111 turn will create greater delays i11 )'ntlr venture. You need to set a tight bud­get in order to support \'t>ur own interests. 00000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dcc. 21): Your emotional slate \\·ill lw qu,•stionable. Don't take things the wrong \\'ii\' Your lt,n~h•ncy to bl' ovt'rindulgent .,nd sentimental \\'di ll'aw 1·,iu foding silk 00 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-J,tn. 19): Put in t•,tra lh1urs it ,·ou nn1,1 tu complete important bl1.,Jn1.•.,:;s de,1ls that h.1,·e to b1.. se,,·L~d llF' befor~
1 

ye.u-end. Your ded1cat1011 will be respected, and you w,11 be rewardL•d. 
0000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Fcb. 18): This is not the best dav to ask for favors or Joans. You wili haw to go over vour financial statements can•­fulh· and work out a budget you can livewithOOO 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20!: Prob­lems with family nwmbers will esc,1­late if vou refuse lo see other peo­ple's points of view. You must put your own beliefs and attitudes aside if you \\'ish to wor~ well with others. 
000 
Birthday Baby: You will be original in all that vou do. Your ability to tlunk ,·our way through anv process methodicalh· will help win the resp<'ct of those 1·ou meet throughout your life. You will achie1·e the satisfactton vou're look­ing for. · 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites al aslroadvice.com, 
eugenialast.com, aslromate.com.) 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
Hide-hair link 4 Letters in cyberspace 9 lnsured's contribution 14 Log cabin 
President 15 Comics orphan 16 Fred's dancing 
partner 17 Winter air 
quality 18 Fetch 19 Played over 20 Most Three 
Stooges films 23 Maneuver slowly 24 Overindulgent one 25 Rushed headlong 
28 Curl one's lip 30 Chekhov's first play 32 Ed Norton's 
field of work 37 Affirmative 38 Attorneys' filings 
40 Before now 42 NATO, for one 
43 Update, as a story 
45 Nobel Prize economist Lawrence 
49 Physicist Niels 
50 Vaudevillian Foy 55 "_hungry I could ... " 
56 Some Olympians 
59 Makeshift money 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
S P A S D A A K T A N K EBO N 0 P I E 
AV EC T E N S 
61 Pentagon bigwigs 62 "Vay, team!" 
63 "Common Sense" pamphleteer 

64 Ancient letters 65 ''That's 
amazing!" 66 Arctic floaters 67 Acid in proteins 68 Loop loopers 
DOWN 

1 Port on the Loire 2 Alec's "Star Wars" role 3 Lie at rest 4 Upper hand 5 Hit a low note? 6 White 7 In other words 8 Loose-limbed 
9 Detective novelist John Dickson 

1oOne-named folk singer 11 Public images 12 In the style of 13 Kyoto cash 21 Artful Dodger 22 (0,0) on a graph 26 Frontier judge Bean 27 Adam's madam 29 Fit for a king 
31 Legendary baseball exec Bill 


33 Back-pocket bulge 34 45 inches 35 Batter's stat. 36 Celestial altar 38 Lady-killer 39Justice Frankfurter 40 Wall St. figure 41 Prizm maker 44 Furrier's offering 46 Exit one's cocoon 47 Galilee's land 
48 Enjoys a bagel, 54 Buddy who maybe played Barnaby 51 Winger of the 57 King Kong's kin screen 
58 buco 
52 Pasta-maker's 59 Sunblock letters wheat 
60 Hall-of-Farner 53 Farsi speaker Hubbard 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

~----~------------------------------------------------------~------~-----­
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q I 
I
Notre Dame, IN 46556 • 
·I
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year D Enclosed is $45 for one semester ..... Name 
Address------------------­
City ________ State ____ Zip.______ 
---·------------------------..----------------------------------------, 

In other NIT action ... 
Sabres knock out Jagr

The Irish weren't the only college hasketball team in 
The Pittsburgh Penguins lost action last night. 
the NHL ·s leading scorer last Check out complete 
night in a 3-2 win over the coverage ofthe 
HuJJalo Sabres. Preseason NIT.
PORTS 
page 18 
page 14 
O
THE 

page 20 BSERVER Wednesday, November 17, l 999 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Graves' last-second shot upsets OSU 
-~­
By BRIAN KESSLER Sports Edir.or 
I lead coach Matt Doherty cel­ebrated his first victory in excit­ing fashion Tuesday night with a 59-57 upset victory over Ohio State (No. o ESPN/USA Today. No. 4 AP) in the first round of t h e Preseason 
NIT. 
With 10 seconds left. sopho­m o r e D a v i d Graves dribbled from the back court to the left wing, fumbled the ball and drained a 15-footer as time expired to seal the victory for the Irish and stun the 17,402 fans on hand at the Schottenstein Center in 

-


Columbus. Ohio. 
'Tm so happy. We drew it up that play where we fumbles the ball," Doherty said jokingly in a post-game intferview. "David made the shot just like I called it in the huddle." 
Graves, who finished with 18 points, didn't even see his game­winning shot go down. 
"I thought Coach would call a timeout. I thought we would try to get it inside, but Ohio State took that away," he told the Assoriatcd Press. 
"When they threw me the ball, I looked at !.he clock and there was no time to pass. They were giving me my left hand, so I used Harold [Swanagan] as a shield and shot it. I never saw it go in because I was falling to the floor. 
"It was a great feeling -3, 2, 1, then shoot it with 18,000 screaming fans and one of the best players in the country [Scoonie Penni on you," Graves continued. "You dream of some­thing like that when yolf're in your backyard, it's 10 at night and you're under the lights." 
Graves wound up Preseason under a pile 
NIT 
of his team­
Notre Dame 59
mates. 
"I didn't Ohio Stale 57 want to cele­brate on the court," Doherty said. referring to the dog pile that followed Graves' buzzer-beater. "I want­ed to wait until we got to the locker room, but they didn't lis­ten. l can't wait to get in there though and do some chest bumping." 
Notre Dame grabbed the momentum from the opening tip. leading for the first 16 min­utes of the contest. However, Ohio State guard Michael Redd scored four of his nine first-half points in the closing minutes of the half to give the Buckeyes a 27-24 lead at. the intermission. 

A 9-0 run by the Buckeyes midway through the second half gave Ohio State a 41-33 lead, but the Irish scratched and clawed their way back into the game. Graves' third three point­er of the night cut the Buckeye lead to 45-42 with seven min­utes left. 
Notre Dame then stepped up its defense holding the nation's best backcourt at bay. Hcdd and first team AP All-American Sroonie Penn werr, held to just seven points on 1-of-l 1 shooting in the final 20 minutes. 
"We didn't want Scoonie Penn beating us and I didn't want Michael Hedd beating us," Doherty told the AP. "We want­ed to put the focus defensively on them." 
The Irish eventually regained the lead with back-to-back three pointers by Martin Ingelsby with 
see B-BALL/page 18 
FOOTBALL 

Davie: Irish injured, mentally exhausted 
By TIM CASEY Sports Writer 
As the Pitt fans stormed the field. tore down a goal post and destroyed the Astroturf of their stadium on Saturday, Notre Dame could only be left to wonder where their season is headed. 
An inconsistent running game, a secondary that yield­ed 231 yards through the air on only 10 completions, an

-,._. 
offense that turned the ball over on three occasions and a rash of injuries all caused concern for the now 5-5 Irish 
But paramount among these concerns for head coach Bob Davie was a lack of passion and improvement by his team against Pittsburgh. 
"The thing I focus on every week is to show improvement as a football team," Davie said at Tuesday's press con­ference. "I think that's an important thing because that is something you can control. 
"But in the last two weeks, it's hard for me to say we've made improvement," Davie ad.ded. "If you look at the Tennr,ssee game, I thought that thPre wen' some positive things in that game. The big thing was that we were excit­
see FOOTBALL/page 16 


You'd be tired too 
I saw a guy out on South Quad spontaneously com­bust yesterday after study­ing for a calculus test for 10 straight hours. 
OK, maybe not, but after just three wceksrof being back from fall break, we're all ready for a nice four day weekend for Thanks­giving. Can you imagine what it would be like if we hadn't had a break since we got here at the end of August? 
I'm sure quite a few col­lege football players could give you an answr,r. 
The Notre Dame squad and a small group of others -Kansas, Arizona, Penn State, Ohio State and Miami are especially qualified to respond. These six teams started play at least a week before most other pro­grams. back during that first week when you still went to all your tutorials. 
You have to think that they're feeling the effects now, three months later, no matter how hard they come out and play. 
Take the Irish for starters. Not only did they start play against Kansas on Aug. 28 in the Eddie Hobinson Classic, they never went home for the summer. They were here practicing and conditioning the whole time. 
They really haven't gone home since everyone else came back, either. Oh sure, they got two days off during fall break, but I don't think I had woken up once by the time the team was back and practicing. 
In light or Saturday's dis­appointing 37-27 loss to Pittsburgh, which dropped the Irish to 5-5, Bob Davi!~ addressed this issue at his Tuesday press conforence, saying: "I think this football team's a little drained emo­tionally." 
He also pointed t.o !.hose otlrnr five teams that playnd the early games and the 


see FOX/pagcl 7 

NCAA Third Round • Women's Swimming 
vs. Roston College vs. Stanford at Minnesota Invitational Saturday, 2:30 p.m. 
SPORTS ~ {I
Friday, 7:30 p.m. Friday-Sunday

ATA •
NCAA Track and Field • Volleyball vs. Toledo Championships Big East Tournament Semifinals Saturday, 6 p.m. 
GLANCE 
Friday-Saturday Saturday, 12 p.m. 






