

Tragedy on the tracks 
Wednesday
¦ Scene counts down the top five Irish 

¦ Amtrak train derails outside Chicago, killing 14. 
bands that put the "rock" in shamrock. 
MARCH 17,
Scene• 12 

World & Nation • 5 
1999 
THE 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXXII NO.105 WWW. ND.EDU/~OBSERVER 
Performa calls for demolition, moves at Saint Mary's 
By COLLFEN McCARTHY "The first time I clrovP on lition, and I know this is always \fans into residence hall dorm they lnasl want to live in. S,1i111 Mary's Edi1or campus, I thought lloly Cross n difficult thing to consider," space," she said. It would not be appropriate to was the main campus building," Marrow said. · The dining hall would then be put money into something that 
Th(• 1'1•rfor111a Consulting sairl Marrow, explaining thr ''What wo'rp proposing Ibased turned into a conference arna. it will never be. so we would group pn!Sl'llll'd lo Sainl Mary's suggestion to move thn admin­on the historical use of' space] is The second scenario also pro­suggest building a now rnsi­studPnls. faculty and staff thrcm istration ol'lices. posed creating a visitors' center dence hall." possilill' s1·p11arios l"or campus Tim scenario includes turning at the campus' main entrance Other suggestions madn in improvcnwnts. all of which cost l laggar Collngc Ccntnr into a and moving administrative the second scenario wnrn reno­
'WEWOULD DEMOLISH
apprnxirnatPly $50 million. conl'erencn space and rnnovat­offices to Haggar Coll1igc vating and £1Xpnnding Angela "'l'hPS(' s<·1•narios an\ nol ing tlrn dining hall. Student REGINA. THE DORM Center. Athletic Facility and moving morn d!•lail('(I bPcaus!' it"s not l\ctivil.ins would he movNl from PNl"orma suggested meeting Student Activities into that
ROOM SPACES ARE SMALL,
snnli'thing WI' can clo at this its of'ficos in llaggar to the 'using Holy Cross Hall, currently building. Linw," said Carnlyn Marrow; a vacatPd administrative offices [AND] THERE IS LITTLE a rnsidence hall. to fill the need Making th1\ dining hall into a l'!~rforma rnpr(~scntaliV<\. "It's on thr. first floor of Lr. Mans. for more academic space. This campus/student c1rntcr and
SENSE OF COMMUNITY. ' 
110! PVnn somnlliing WP can do A new rnsidence hall featur­would in turn create a need for moving the dining f'acilitiP-s lo with mastnr planning, As tlrn ing independent style living, a new residP-ncc hall, said thn first floor of Hegina wern mastPr plan is nwntually imple­possibly in tlw form of apart­CAROLYN MArmow Marrow. suggestions of the third alterna­tll I'll l<'cl. 1·osls will lwcome ments., was also part of the sce­Rather than renovating the tive scenario.
PERPORMA REPRESRNTATIVE 
murh morn 1·'1-ar. as will loca­nario. Regina llall dormitory, Marrow "Helocating the dining hall to tions.·· "This scnnario invests in presented an alternative sug­the first floor of Hngina would 
Tlw first alt.-rnalivP prnsPnl­existing l'acilities the most," gestion. mean elimination of' thn Pd hy Marrow involvns moving said Marrow. "We would demolish Hegina," chapnl," said Marrow. "It's onn tlw administration ol'lices from Thn second scenario involves, to move the dining hall to said Marrow. "The dorm room of the least used and it would tlwir rurrnnt l01'.ation on tlw among other suggestions, where it once was, on the first spaces are small, there is little be relocated to somewhern els11 l"irst l"loor of l.c Mans llall to d1rn10lition. floor of Le Mans and convert sense of community, and stu­som<' portion or I loly Cross I I all. "This sclrnme involves demo-the rest of the first floor of Le dents routinely told us it is the see PERFORMA / page 4 

¦ FACULTY SENATE 


Speakers address Romero, Bernardin 
By ERICA THESING


Resolutions 
Associate News Editor 
Spnakers at Annual Archbishop Homero Lecture honored Oscar Homero and Joseph Bernardin as modern prophets Tunsday, highlight­ing tlrn manner in which they 
criticize WRC 


probation 
brought God's message to thnir peo­ple. 
Homcro, in addition to his prophet­Hy DEREK BETCHER ic role, was faithful to tlm institution­Seninr Staff Reporrr.r al Church, said Margaret Swedish, 
executive director of the Roligious 
Following months of study by its studf'nt Task Force on Central America and ,1ffairs committ1:e, the Faculty Senate passed Mexico. She explained that Romero thrnc resolutions at Tuosday night's meeting worked to bring that institution to rnsponding to the Women's Hesourcc Center the poor. probation issue. "This, after all, is what Jesus did 
The nH!Pling nlso saw progress in rnvising the and what he r.allcd his follownrs to ucadPmir honor code and implementing a new do," Swedish said. faculty alcohol policy. She emphasized that Romero was 
Tlw Women's Hesourco Center (WRC) was internstnd in changing the Church to given a two-year probation last May by the meet those needs. Of"fice of Student Activities, who claimed the "For him, the Church was a living, student group had reforrnd tLbortion services. breathing space in which tlrn build­Procedural uncnrtaintios and questions of aca­ing of tlrn reign of God was taking dmnic frnmlom triggered the Faculty Senate's placo," Swodish said. "The institution involvement almost immlldialely. was not to be static." 
Wodnnsdlly's resolutions marked tho culmi­Homero embraced the Church's nation of the student affairs committec·s social t1iachings and applied them lo nisnareh and deliberation on the issue and rep­the structurn ol' his archcliocesn, she resents proposals on how to address what the explained. majority or senators snc as a situation in nncd "Where else have we seen anything of repair. quiln like it'?" Swedish said. "The 
The tirst n•snlution concornod the specifics of Church and th<i gospel Wflre truly tho wnc·s probation, thf' sHr.ond raised quos• onn, and he did this as an archbishop I.ions about fairness in student disciplinary -as a momber of the Church hierar­henrings and the third qul'stionerl the general chy." rolalionship b11twMn acndemic life, residence This required a humility to listen to lifn, the provost and the Office of Student Lhe voices of' the ropressecl, she Affairs. explained, rnsulting in "a churrh 

First. lhe senate movod to criticize tho WRC liercely rnlcvant and alive. The Observer/ Ernesto Lacayo 
Father Robert Pellon introduces the speakers al Tuesday's lecture. which focused 
probation. "The Church served its people 

on the lives of Archbishop Oscar Romero and Joseph Cardinal Berardin.
"B1i it therefore rcsolvHd that the vice presi­whilo dr.noi.1cning sin and proclaim­dont for Student Affairs rescind the probabtion ing the good news to the poor," she lives and deaths, said Monsignor "Ile bl~came a holy man duringof tho WHC and replace tho conliscalod materi­said. "That, of course, is why he was 
Kenneth Velo, president of the those hours, encountering the Holy
als." read the final text of the first rrsolution, so loved and so hated. As with Jesus 

Catholic Church Extension Society One," Velo said. which passed with a 31-2-1 vote, of Nazareth, it was not a neutral and a close friend of Bernardin's. In his work with the American 
Thr. WRC's proi.>ationa.ry sl.ntus demands that word." Velo explained that Bernardin's bishops and his own Common thu group remove all materials from its files Although Romero and Bernardin prophetic life came from his relation­Ground project, Bernardin strove to nnd library thnt "is value-neutral on the issue, worked in different situations. they 
ship with the "Holy One" and shared bring together ideas from a variety of both understood the world they lived details from Bernardin's life, includ­people, Velo explained. in, understood the message of the ing the Cardinal's morning routine of
see SENATE / page 4 : 
gospel and showed this through their 

prayer. see ROMERO / page 4 



The Observer• INSIDE Wednesday, March 17, 1999 


utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

St. Patrick's Day returns to campus after five year hiatus 
page 2 
¦ INSIDE COLUMN 


Redneck Spring Break 
"What did you do over break''" You've probably heard this question from everyone who doesn't know you well enough to ask before you left for your spring break desti­nation. 
In the few short days since I returned to school, I've received many a blank stare and sarcastic retort follow­ing a description of my adventures. I did not go to a lropical paradise or some fantastic party Mike Rornanchek spot. I went to Texas. News Copy E<liror Far from South Padre Island, I spent my days sitting under a pecan tree calling turkeys. 

That's right, turkeys, The very bird Benjamin Franklin called the most majestic of all American birds and lobbied for fruit­lessly as our nation's symbol. 
I did not sit on a beach during the day and drink my mind into oblivion at night. I was up by 6 a.m. and in position to hear the majestic beasts leave their roosts beforo sunrise. 
If break had come a few weeks later, dur­ing the turkey hunting season, I may have wished to take a bird for the dinner table but that was not the case. 1went to the Texas Hill Country to take a break. To get away from the terrible pace that consumes our energy and time at school. 
I listened to the ghost-like calls of the toms (the full-grown male turkeys) and tried to match them with hen and gobbler calls. Wild turkeys do not gobble like their barnyard kin; they howl, yelp. hiss and bark not unlike the beasts that haunted many of our childhood forests. 
I hoped to catch the attention of just one gobbler so he would investigate the. stranger who was calling out to his hens. To see a massive Rio Grande tom in full strut is heart-stopping in woods that normally seem completely vacant. So I sat nearly motion­less for hours on end just to see a turkey. 
I realize why most Notre Dame students would not find this worthwhile for their spring breaks. Not many of us enjoy dress­ing from head to toe in camouflage while we lean against the hard trunk of a tree for hours just waiting to see a bird. But that is just what I needed. 
To relax, away from paved roads, city lights and loads of busy people. To listen to the wind blow through the trees, to watch the sun make its path across the sky and to breathe with the earth. It was everything I wanted in mv break. 
Don't get me wrong, I have nothing against living the party life while on break. Anyone who knows me will back me on that one. And maybe next spring break I'll be in Jamaica, partying with"everyone else. 
But this year the only partying I did was in my mind when I was blessed with the opportunity to see one of the shiest animals in our woodlands. 
So I don't have any amazing stories about wet t-shirt contests and I did not accom­plish any amazing feats like drinking 60 beers in 48 hours or taking 25 shots and waking up the next morning. But, if you care to know, I did see nearly 70 of the most majestic birds to grace our nation's forests and that made for an exciting spring break in my mind. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Obsemer. 
¦ Tootw's STAFF 
News Scene Finn Pressley Emmett Malloy Mike Romanchek 
Graphics 
Laura Rompf 
Mandi Powell 

Sports 
Lab Tech 
Anthony Bianco 
Jeff Hsu 
Viewpoint Mary Margaret Nussbaum 
Tiie Observer (USl'S 59? 2-4000) is published Monday 1hrough Friday <"xcc:pt during exam and v:ication pc-riock The Observer is a rm;_mbcr of ,he A,,oda«d Pr<S.>. All reproducrion righr, arc reserved. 


DAYTON, Ohio 
St. Patrick's Day is making its return to the University of Dayton campus tomorrow, and university officials are optimistic they won't see a return to the traditions that prompt­ed them to schedule the university's spring break to coincide with the holi­day for the last live years. 
"It was just a really ugly scene," William Schuerman, vice president of student development and d£'an of stu­dents. said of the SL. Patrick's cele­brations of the past 
Schuerman said the celebrations beginning in I.he late '80s and espe­cially in the early '90s were totally out of control. He said it was not uncommon to find furniture and dumpstPrs on fire, strncts blocked and large crowds confronting univer­sity and r.ity policfl. 
"For a period of about five to six years things were just escalating," 
¦ BOSTON UNlVERS!TV 
ease and usually occurs as a single, isolated event. 
¦ SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

Wedne~day Windy 52 :;:18 
i 
Thursday ~ 49 37 Friday , (f 29. 03,3 Saturday ~-51 -~33 
Sunday .,,_g&~:!i,§
f~5•..-:/ ,.,... 
"'-\J. 
~-~-~A~~ (f ~ ill 
Showers T-stom,s Ra111 F/'1mes Snow Ice · Sunny Pt. Cloudy CIOudy Via Associated Pres~ GraphicsNet 

I 
Schuerman said. "A certain segment of thr. population wanted UD to bP. known for that (the wild celebra­tions)." 
The 1992. celebrations were partic­ularly destructive. According to a March 20, 1992 !:liver News article, over 70 citations were issued to stu­dents during the celebrations. Couch and dumpster fires, and the destruc­tion of automobiles were common­place during Lhe near-riot celebra­tions. 
The situation was so bad at the 

¦ M!CH!Gi\N STATE UNIVERSITY 
away. "She never felt any pain," Wright said. 
¦ NATIONAL WEATHER 

The AccuWeather® forecast tor noon, Wednesday, March 17. 
60s 
60s 
50s 
70s 60s :s= 50s ~ ~<o 
10,~

200  305  40,  - v  aos  FRONTS:  
...,.......  .........  ~  
ID 1989 AccuWeather, Inc.  COLD  WARM  STATIONARY  
Prtuur,:® I['\!::I  .,..  f:'.".;7~  IT7~  ~ L,:.:_,I  r:7:7L:.""1  ~ ~  ~~{' ~,:_,.,.f .•~  ~ .. -..  
High  low  Showers  R•ln  T-•torm•  Flurrie,  $nolllf  Ice  Sunny  Pt. Cloudy  Cloudy  

time, that UD felt it necessary to have a policeman on every corner, Schuerman said. 
Schucirman said UD had receivfld a reputation as the place to be for St. Patrick's Day, many students from other universities were adding to the problems. 
In an attempt to flnd the revelries, the university began scheduling spring break to coincide with the holi­day in 1994. 
Schuerman said the events of this year will determin1~ wheth1w or not spring break is scheduled over St. Patrick's Day in the future. However, Schuerman said ho believed enough time had passed that there wouldn't be any major problems. 
Dan Molina, a graduate student at UD who arrived at UD in 1993, said he arrived just aftor the celebrations. but said he heard somo wild stories about them. 
Source guide manager faces allegations Landlord reviews student records 
BOSTON. Mass. EAST LANSING. Mich. 
Despite a request Monday night from the Student Lew Horn understands why his Norwood apartments Union president to relinquish his post. the Source Guide landlord asked him to release his campus court records project manager said he will not resign in the face of before he could sign a lease. "I guess they have to look out allegations he abused his power. Student Union for their property," he said. But the journalism sophomore President Lucas Caron delivered a letter to Guide Project said he was surprised to h~arn his landlord was the only Manager Lenny Carey yesterday asking him to resign by landlord who required the release of information, which this afternoon. The move was in response to complaints could prevent some MSU students with offenses on their lodged before Spring Break by several members of the campus judiciary records from getting an apartment when Source Guide staff and came the same day Carey fired they move off campus. Yet while Prime Housing Group the guide's editor-in-chief. In a written list of griev­omcials -who manage Norwood and several other area ances, staff members claimed Carey bought a laptop apartments -examine some students' campus judiciary computer when the committee couldn't afford it, offered records. few others can see such records. The Family to pay employees for time they didn't work, coerced a Educational Rights and Privacy Act, also known as I.he new employee to hand in homework for him, and Buckley Amendment, prevents the release of identifiable refused to acknowledge the Student Union's oversight of academic records by publir. universities without the con­the 'project. sent of the student involved, 
¦ UNIVERSITY Of PtNNSD'VANIA ¦ BmGHAM YOUNG Ut-.HVERSITY Student contracts deadly disease Freshman dies in skiing accident 
PHHADELPHIA PROVO, Utah 
A female University of Pennsylvania freshman fell ill with The Brigham Young University 11ag was at half-mast meningococcal meningitis during spring break while vaca­Monday in loving honor of Katie Bills, who passed away tioning in the Bahamas and is currently in stable condition at 9:15 a.m, Monday due to massive head trauma, at a New York hospital, according to Acting Director of according to LDS Hospital records. Bills, 18. a freshman Student Health Services Evelyn Wiener. Student Health offi­from Littleton. Colo .. majoring in communications was cials said it is unclear whether the student actually contract­skiing with friends in Brighton canyon Saturday ed the disease -which is potentially fatal and transmitted evening. Joseph Wright, 19, a freshman, from Anaheim, fairly easily from one person to another -in the Bahamas Calif., with an open major.was among the group. It was or on campus. However. Wiener stressed that "a single case her third time and she was really excited to go, Wright does not constitute an outbreak" -which is defined by said. Wright said that Bills was working to perfect her three or more cases in a three-month period -and is not turns when she gained too much speed and skied into grounds for campus-wide antibiotic treatment or vaccina­the boundary net on the side of the mountain. As Bills tion. Only those students who came into close contact with tumbled through the netting her skis popped off and she the infected student will need preventative treatment for the slid head first into a tree, knocking herself unconscious, disease. Meningococcal meningitis is a relatively rare dis­Wright said. She remained in that state until she passed 
Albuquerque 45  36  Helena  49  22  Phoenix  70  48  
Boston  47  35  Jackson  77  43  Richmond  68  39  
Chicago  52  39  Los Angeles 62  46  St. Louis  58  35  
Denver  51  35  Minneapolis 41  37  Tacoma  55  34  
Fairbanks  15  -4  New York  54  37  Tulsa  62  51  

WednnJay, Marc:h 17, 1999 The Observer. CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
¦ '"'OARD Of GOVERNANCE 

Four campus organizations receive grants for events 
Hy NOREEN GILLESPIE """t.ml Nt·ws F.ditnr 
Tilt' Board of (iov1•r1Hl.1ll'.(' votPd TuPsday night lo spPIJCI $8:i!i f'rom rn-sponsorship bucl­gds t.o assist l'our campus groups with individual Hl'r>ds. 
Tlw Chicana l.ill'raturn class, l'oliLiral SdP11n! Club, Stuc!PnL Nursing Association and Studnnl ;\cadPill i1· Co II nr iI wt~ rii a 11 clPan•d l'or portions of thl'ir fi111111ri;il proposals f'or ro-spon­sorsliip programs. 
Till' Chirnna !.itPrnlun• class rp1·1•iv1•d $2:iO 01· a 1·pq11i,sl.1!d $810 to altPtHI tlw "'Vni1'PS f'rom th,· Maq,tin: Flhnic: Wolllf'll Writ,•rs" 1·011f"Pr1•11cl' ill L1t1· Marl'!1 TIH' ro11l'Prcm·1· !'Patun•s IPrl11n•s giv,•n li.v Pllmil" wonwn aulliors and disn1ssion pa11Pls 011 1111• matPri:tl prr•sPnt,•d. 
"M1il1inllt11ralism is a hugP isSll(' 1111 f'illll!JUS at Saint 1\larv's." said <"lass ri•prPsf'nla­tiv1• Haf'IH•h· llrnlarl1•. "W1· ran hri11g hark \\'hat \\'1' 11•,u·n l'rom !his 1·oi11'1'1·l'11(·1• t() ramp11s. W<' 1·a11 itpply it. By stri•nglhPning 1111rsl'lvl's, \\'P ran slrf'nglhf'll oil11•rs." 
Th 1• fl1111 rd also ap1>rov1•d $250 dollars f(lr 1111• l'olilical Srif'Tll"I' Club to invill' two spPak1·rs to l'ampus. i11rl11ding Saint Mary's 11!1111111,w Barlmrn l'at.rirk O'Toolf', a lawynr l'or tlw :\nlt'rirnn Civil 1.ilwrtiPs Union. wh11 will visit dt1ring llw f'irsl m•Pk in April. 
Carolyn SartU'<'.ki, prPsidPnl ol' tlw 1'11litical Srif'llf"I' Club, l'XfWl'Ssf'd a m•1•d for funding to gPnNatl' i11t1•n•sl for tlw major a1111111g l'r1•sh11H•11 and sopho­morP;,. 
BPcat1se of' pmialtiPs issued lo the group at tho bnginning ol' llin ynar, llw club's BOC funding has b1\1!11 drastically reducnd. II ownv1\ r. Boa rd nwmIm rs argun<l that Urn club's signili­cant efforts throughout the year meriterl thf' proposal's approval. 
Tim Stud,inl Nursing Association {SNA) was also dnarncl l'or $380 lo rnvnr rngis­trat.io11 and transportation costs l'or the upcoming National Stud,•nt. Nursing Assor'ia1ion confon•nrn in l'illsburgh. Pa. 
Ciling naLional n•cognition f'or !Im Coll1)1,(P as a kny hf!IlOlit f'or passing tlw motion, Katn Moot arguml on l)('lialf' of' flw SN/\. 
"Any linw that Saint Mary's is rcc.ogniznd nalio11ally, it is important," l\1oot said. 
Siucll-11t body vice pn•sidnnl Nancy Middnn also r11q1wsted 1'1111ds for tlw Studnnt Acadnmic <:outlf'il (SAU lo co11lin111• "Major of' 1.lu• WPnk" projPc:ts and to print t.lw final Pdition 111' "Spotlight on Acadnmi(·s" f'or the rpmaind,•r ol' tlw a1'.adP111ic VPar. 
Tlw group's funds havn l;{ggNI dun Lo slow salt~s of' llw all-cam­pus photo tak,•n on Saint Mary's Pri<lf• Day, Midcl1•11 said. 
Tllf• rPquPsl was approvpd urHIPr tlw rondition that tlw SAC would rl'pay tlrn funds as saks improve. 
Stud,~nl body presid<111t Sarah Sil'ff'l"l also Pxprcssnd discon­lnnt at thf' lack of' stur!Pnt attm1­danr.f' al Tuesday's l'nrf'nrma nweting. wlwrP plans for tlw 1ww st11df'nl cPnler wern dis-1:11ss1id. 
"WP all ,mod to hav11 an inllu­P nrn 011 this project." Sicfnrt said. "Stuclf'nl porspectivn for this projoct is important." 
Hnnderings of' Porforrna's pro­posal will b11 available for view­ing in tlrn Le Mans lobby next month, and comment cards will be available for st.udnnt input. 
In other ROG news: 
• 
Women's Month events sponsorl'd by the SAC indude a Wompn's Choir concert on Thursday evnning and a service prnjP!'.l at St. MargarPt's llousn on Saturday morning. A dinrn~r to rncognize important wonrnn in thn Saint Mary's cnmmunity will b1: lwld on Sunday at !i p.m. in tlw dining hall. 

• 
St.udnnl.s should watch f'or "wish list" sign-ups on tlwir class hullntin boards. Studrn1ts will bn ahln to contri!Jutr ideas f'nr tlw wish list to bn prnsnntml to tlrn Board of' Trustn<1s. Tho Board rP<JW·Sl(•d the list af'ter its last rnmpus visit. 

• 
Studont Acliviti1is Board (SABI PVfrnls inclucll' showings of "What Dr11a111s May Cornn" Thursday. Friday and Saturday at l\lornau Auditorium. The board has also plm11wrl a classic film fostival !'or Junior Mom's WnekPnd featuring "An Affair to Hnmmnbnr," "Casablanca" and "Gonn With the Wind." Doorhangcrs with the rmnaining SAB ovcmts will bn distributnd in dorms this week. 

• 
Open housos for McCandless, Hegina, Le Mans and I loly Cross halls will bn held beforn room selection processes next week. Studnnl<; am nncour­aged lo tour the dorms to view pot1!ntial room choir.ns for Lim I CJlJCJ-2000 acadr.mic ynar and 


should watch f'or posted datns and limos around campus. 
• Campus Ministry will spon­sor a L(mt1rn reconciliation snr­vicc on March 24 in the Hegina chapel. Stations of the Cross will 
Above the rim 


Warmer temperatures brought future Bookstore Basketball cham­pions out onto the courts behind St. Edward's Hall yesterday. Temperatures approaching 60 degrees are predicted for today. 
hn offcrnd on March 18 and 2:i. 
• A Notrn Damn/Saint Mary's powder puff football ganrn is plannnd f'or March 2:i. at 3 p.m. Interested teams should watch for sign-up shoots on can1pus. 

The Alumni Association is hiring people who would like to work from June 2 ,1999 thru June 5, 1999 for Reunion '99 
You'll have lots of fun while you earn extra spending money!!! Please Apply at Student Employment at 336 Grace Hall or the Alumni Association at 100 Eck Center 


page4 The Observer. CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, March 17, 1999 


Romero 
continued from page 1 
"He was building consensus. He wanted people to be with him," Velo said. "He took criti­cism very deeply. He really wanted people to be on board with him." 
The most telling part of Bernadin's life was the way in which he handled the false allegations of sexual miscon­duct made against him by a former seminarian, Velo said. 
"And the Cardinal showed the stuff of which he was made, and it was good," Velo said. "Through it all, under fire, he who had been chosen to lead the Church of Chicago chose, defined, understood all that he said through words of forgiveness, through words of prayer. 
"He was confirmed then as the people's leader, perhaps 
Senate 
continued from page l 
of abortion," as well as that which "relates to the availibilty of abortion services." 
"This runs afoul of any acade­mic understanding of what a library is," said professor of phi­losophy Ed Manier. 
Perhaps more importantly. several questions were raised about whether any sort of pun­ishment was warranted. 
"Discipline turned on the notion of referral {for abortion) and we really feel that we have no evidence whatsoever that occurred," committee member Stuart Greene. associate profes­sor or English. told the senate. 
"No evidence justifies proba­tion," agreed assistant professor of civil engineering Jeremy Fein. "We're concerned about the WRC, but we're more concerned that this could happen at any time." 
The senate's second resolu­tion sought to avoid such a recurrem:e. and passed 31-2-1. It calls for significant clarifica­tion and revision within du Lac. Transparency and accountabili­ty are recommended as goals for Notre Dame's administrators to seek. 
"We have deep procedural concerns about student disci­pline," committee chairperson Ava Preacher said, summing up reaction to the larger issue fac­ing the senate. "(But) how du Lac gets rewritten remains a mystery." 
The third resolution tackled the most general concern of the issue: the relation between resi­dence life; student groups and academic Ii fo. Specifically the text of the resolution called for a clarification of the formal responsibilitins of the vice presi­dent for student affairs and the provost. 
The resolution passed 32-2 and questions the impact the WllC probation has on the University's academic mission of vigorous and responsible inquiry. These questions need to be resolved not behind the closed doors of the Office of Student Activities but in a forum that includes faculty, most sena• tors agreed. 
"One of my concerns is the suppression of knowledge," stressed Rich Williams, associ­ate professor of sociology. 
"The question of what is appropriate at a Catholic University is not for Student Activities to decide," Manier agreed. 
In other Faculty Senate news: 

• Stuart Greene, associate professor of English, reported to 
because he knew the Holy 

Audience members ques­"Currently about 80 percentOne." tioned the location of the secu­of our students live on campus,"


Performa 

Bernardin died Nov. 14, . rity building. she said. "We would hope more 1996, after a battle with can­continued from page 1 "The security building will not students might decide to stay cer. In the months preceding be located in its little hut," said on campus if we offered this his death, Bernardin wrote on campus." Marrow. "The little hut is gone. kind of housing rather than "The Gift of Peace," a reflection Turning Haggar College All I can tell you is that we moving off campus to apart­
on the last three years of his Center into a visitors' center don't think it should be where it ments. We'd like to see the per­life. and allowing the administration is located now." centage of students living on "His death wasn't a violent to remain in Le Mans Hall were After the presentation, campus at 90 percent plus." 
one like Archbishop Romero, other ideas offered. A new resi­College president Marilou Performa will return to tho although there was pain, there dence hall could be built on the Eldred addressed the need for Saint Mary's on April 15 for was fatigue. there was a cer­tennis courts next to Regina independent-style living on another campus-wide meeting
tain amount of anxiety. His Hall. campus. to discuss further plans.death was a peaceful one because he knew the Holy One," Velo said. "Ilis life and death was for us a gift of peace. This person knew the Holy One, the Lord Jesus." 
Velo explained that in this way, Bernardin was similar to 

tion Technologies
Romero. 
"They understood the mes­sage of the gospel and showed it through their living and their 



Student Employment
dying," he said. ''They were similar because they knew the Holy One, the Lord.Jesus." 


Summer 1999 
the committee on work to rewrite Notre Dame's academic honor code. An improved replacement is nearly ready to be forwarded for consideration to higher powers, Greene said. The revision is more responsive to the current academic climate at Notre Dame that involves cooperative work and persistent uncertainties about what consi­tutes plagerism. . 
• 
The senate unanimously passed a resolution regarding faculty alcohol usage. The administrative· committee assembled guideline regarding responsible alcohol use and will forward those to the Uniyeristy's Academic Council. Among the provisions are stipu­lations that faculty may con­sume alcohol with students in social settings provided the stu­dents are of legal age. 

• 
The academic affairs com­mittee updated the seante on its discussion of the role of tenure at Notre Dame. 


"Our consensus is that tenure at present is a viable institution­al force, not facing any erosion at present," reported committee chairman Greg Sterling, profes­sor of theology. 
The committee had been con­cerned about the increase in non-tenure tracked professional specialist faculty; whose num­bers have grown from 77 15 years ago to 182 last year, according to Sterling. The group concluded the growth of that segment of faculty does not appear to threaten the orthodox teaching and research faculty. 


1999/2000 Academic Year 
The OIT is accepting new applications for student employment for Summer 1999 and the 1999/2000 academic year for the following computer support areas: 
• Resident Computer Consultants (RCCs) 
Work up to 6 hours per week 

RCCs help students connect to the network from their dorm room and answer questions about network software. For more information regarding responsibilities, visit http://www.nd.edu/~rccs/RCC_Handbook_ 1998.html/ 
• Cluster Consultants 
Minimum of 8 hours per week 

Consultants answer questions regarding the hardware and software in the computer clusters. For additional information, visit http://www.nd.edu/~cluscons/ 
Your student online application may be submitted at: www.nd.edu/~ndoit/employ 
Today is Your 




(C)py SHOP 
LaFortune Student Center 
Lucky
Phone 631-COPV 
Complete 




Day'!.2-,;
Digital 
Document 

Services 
When it comes to being lucky, today's your day! We're the 

Desktop Publishing Services high-speed copy specialists you've been looking for ... the pot of gold
Resumes • Newletters • Flyers 

at the end ofyour rainbow ... the four-leaf clover 
Brochures • Business Cards Letterhead & Envelopes 

in your pocket! When it comes to copies, we're Invitations • Table Tents the best. Bring us your orders for copies and our Forms • Posters & More! professional staff will get them done quickly and 
accurately at a price you won't tum green over. 
Monday -Thursday: 7:30 am to Midnight Friday: 7:30 am to 7:00 pm Saturday: Noon to 6:00 pm • Sunday: Noon to Midnight Quality Copies, Quickly!'" 

Copyright 1999 • All Rights Reserved 


page 5 

¦ 
Family sues shelter over dog 
SOLITII HOYi\l.TON, Vt. 

N11t PVl'ry dng has its clay in 1:011rt. Billy is a11 p:,;1·1•ption. \!most t\\ o y.-ars ago. tl11• (;!'1'1111111 slll'pliPrcl hrok1· l11·r collar and rnn awav from h1•1· 111111w in tlw town of' Wolcott. .\ 11i'1111th lat1•r. anotlll'r L1111ily 11doptPd tl11• dog f'rn111 an aninlill slwll1•r. Now Billy's orig­innl m,11Prs --r1·prPsP11INI by tlw /\nwrican Ci\·il l.ilwrli1·s ll11io11 -art• lighting Llw shd­11'1' in Vf•r11111111's Supn•nw Criurt t.o gpf hPr hark. ,\nd so, ,m Tuc•sday. 11 day in whi<'h tlw slali·s l11glwst rourt lu•ard argu111<•.11ts in a 11111ltimillio11-doll.ir 11tilitv ralP ,·as.-. 1111• livf' justi1'1•s also list1•11Pcl to ·impassionr~d d1•bat11 (l\'('J' 1lu• ratP ol' lllP l>-yPar-old dog, Till' t:Olll'l 11111st d1·1·icl,· wliPIIH•r llillv will stav in lwr Ill'\\' hrnnl' or l'Pt urn to lw·r original· owrwrs, <:11:is11lv l.arnarp a11d Charlns Arnold, who trit•d ti, 1•pf·laim h1·r :;4 days af'll'r sh1· rn11 
awa~'­
Denmark arrests art thieves 
COl'l•:l'\IIACl!N, DPnmark 

l'oli1·1• lia,1• a1TPst1'd thn•p 1rn•11 in <·0111wc­li1111 wilh ilw thf-1'1 of' a llt>mhrandt painting a II cl a wfl r k hv < ; iova n n i B1• I I i n i from a l>anish 11111sf'li111. l'oli<'I' dl'l'linPd to say T111•sday whnt IH•r ! IH' paintings havP h1•1•11 1•p1·11v1•rPrl or to giv1• flthP1· dPtails of Uw rnsP. On J,111. 2X, lwo 1111•11 stoln !11•mbra11dt's "!'11rtrai! ol' a I.adv" and BPl!ini's "l'orl.rail. of a Y111111g :\la11" rr;,111 tl11· priva1P Nivaagaard C1Jll1•1·tiun 111t1Sl'!llll 1wrtl! of CopP11hagP11. 
l'hP paintings Wf'rl' not prot.ncl1•cl hy s1•11­sors. s11rvPillanrP vidl'os 111· alarms. l.ast monlh, th1• mus1·um issul'd a $:i0,000 n•1vanl oflp1· !'or inf'ormation about tlw tlwn. Thi• musf•um n1•ar lloPrsholm. 1:i mill's north of CopPnliagPn. l'oc·usPs on art ol' tlw l(,th ancl 17th 1·1•111uri1•s. 
Baptist president resigns after swindling conviction 
ST. l'ETEBSBLHC. Fla. 

Thi• Hi•v. llf'lll',V ).yolls, pn'sidPnl. of Olli' of 1111• nation's largPsl and most in1'111Pnt.ial hlal'i, dPnominations. sohh<•d and apologiwd as h1• r1•sig1H•d T11Psday. two Wl'l'ks al'tnr ht>ing 1·n11vid1•d ol' swindling morP llwn $4 million 'Tm just so sorry ahoul all <lf' lhis," lw said quil'lly al a 1wws 1·011f'PrPnc,• ouLsidP ltis BPt lwl l\1Pt ropolil an Ba pl isl Chu r<'h. wh1•n· lw 1old Llll' hoard of tlH' National llaptist C11m1•11tio11 llS:\ 111· his d1•cision. 'Tm lrnly rqw11tant ahoul it. I hat,• that I hurl. so many pPoplP," lw said. his v11irl' brnaking. Jlp \\'as s111T1H111d1•d hy ot l11~r ministl'rs, wh11 told him: "Yot1'n• 1101 11!0111'." "l appnwialn it." lw said as Ill' lwgan sobhing. Tlw lfov. E.V. llill, who will r11 n for prnsidPnl. whcm Llrn conwn­li1111 \ 1wxt 1•IPl'tio11s am linld in Snptcrnber, paUPd l.yo11s on tlw back and tole! him: "We 11r1• willi you. W1, l'orgavP any <)rrcirs yiiu havn 1111uh-. Wt> lovc, you." 

Composite 
Volume: 
892,259,120 

VOLUME LEADERS 

,~r.1eatn: IU;;t.EB .,ai;tt.At:iWE i Ct:liBtMiE !Bl~E 
DELL COMPUTER DELL -t1.44 -t-0.6300 44,38 EFAK.COM INC EFAX +17,36 +3,7550 is 38 COMPAQ COMPUTER CPO -tl.20 +1.0050 32.38 JNTEL CORP INTC t-2,0J t-2.3950 1210.27 AMER ONLINE AOL +2.28 +2.8800 104.88 ORACLE CORP ORCL -0,63 -0.1900 29.81 MICROSOFT CORP MSFT . 1.92 +3.1050 169.06 CADENCE OESIGN CDN •4,37 ·1.0600 23.19 CVBEAIAN OUTPUTS COOL ,..15,,57 +2 8800 21.38 CISCO SYSTEMS csco +0.95 +1.0-000 106.00 
¦ ltUNOIS 


AssoU,\TI I) l'HESS 
BOUHBONNAIS, Ill. 
ll1•sc11e crnws usnd cranes Tuesday to mov(1 manglnd. smoldering pieces ol' nrntal as tlwy s11arclwd f'or victims of the nation's worst train wreck since I <J93 -a finry collision with a truck loaded with steel bars. At least 14 peo­pIn wnrn killed and 119 injurnd. · 
Authorities said the truck driver, :i8-ycar-old .John Stob)s, was driving on a probationary licensn after rnndving thrnn spneding tickl'ls within a· vnar. !IP s11f'fPrPd only -minor injurins. 
As many as 21 (1 pnople wni·p aboard Amtrak's City of Nmv Orleans when it hit tlrn tractor-trailer at a rural crossing near a stl'el mill 50 miles south of Chicago on Monday night. Four to six pnople wnrn missing and feared dPad in the wrnckage. 
"W1· nned to make sure there arc no survivors and ii' that means taking the wreckage apart part by part, that's what we'll do," said Bourbonnais Fire Chief Mike Ilarshbarger. 
Tho collision Jnft the I.rain's two rnginos and leading cars scatterl'd like hurnrd and broken toys over a quarter-mile. Onn nngine punched through a 1:ar lwhind it, and lhe crash sparkPd a lirn that burnnd for morn than fivn hours. 
/\II of' thn dead were found in a d(iuble-deck slenping car that was three cars behind tlrn cnginns of tlrn 14-car train. Many pas­sengors wnrn snttling in for the night wlwn tlw train slamnrnd into tlrn truck shortly af'tnr 9:30 p.m. 
"All of' tlrn sudden 1wnry­thing just startnd crashing and catching on f'irn and people hollering and run­ning," said Blanche .Jonns, a passenger from Memphis, Tenn. 
"We couldn't got out. couldn't find a way out. That was the most dnvas­tating thing of all. By thn grace of Goel, I just wPnt down a stairway and found a way to get out and let everybody know how to gc•t out." 
Amtrak prnsicllmt Gnorgi1 Warrington visitncl tho scl'ne in tlrn afternoon, and in Washington. l'rnsidnnt Clinton offnrnd his "thoughts and prayPrs" lo Llw victims and pli•dgPd to do whatever Im could to lwlp thP111 and thPir f'ami­!i1)s. 

The crossing was prot111·t­ncl hy gatns and lights that appnar to have h1rnn func­tioning at the Lime of tlw crash, according lo David Farrell, a spokc\sman l'or tlrn !II in o is Comm n r c n Commission. 
Stokns, thn drivnr or tlw truck, said that lw didn't sPn tlrn train as lw apiiroadwd tlw tracks and that thn lights started flash­ing af'tc\r lw had startnd dri­ving across. acl'ording to Cy Gura, a sal'nty enginPnr with tlw National Transportation Saf'Pty Board. Stokns said lw saw tlw train coming and tri1•cl to get out or till' way. 
¦ ECUADOR 

Bus drivers join tax increase strike 
AsSOCIATl'IJ Prrnss armed with automatic weapons South American nation of 12 mill ion 
patrolled the streets of major cities people, was set off by last year's El 
QUITO on Tuesday. . Nino floods, which caused $2.fi bil­
Angry bus drivers joined striking Government representatives met lion in dnmngn, and low world priccis taxi drivers Tuesday, barricading with strike leaders and opposition for oil, Ecuador's main export. streets and bringing traffic to a politicians on Monday, but failed to To protect the banks from a run 011 standstm a.cross Ecuador in an effort fi11d a solution to the standoff. deposiL.-,, Mahuad ordered Ecuador's to force tho govr:rnmcmt to revoke a Spokesmon said they would continue banks shut last week and froze all gas price increase. meeting. dollar savings accounts. 
President Jamil Mahuad last week Many of the ret'onns -especially "Not only does this government. announce<l a harsh austerity pack­tax increases and laws to spoed up want to impovorish tho pooplo with age. proposing spending cuts, price privatizations -must be approved taxos and demoralize them with a hikes and tax increai;es he says a.re by Congress, where Mahuad's cen• savag(~ gasoline pi-ice increasn, but, noed(id to roscue this indobtod trist Popular Democracy Party lacks for the first timo in our history. it has Andean nation from its worst eco­a majority. Congress has 30 days to unconstitutionally seized their nomic crisis in decades. rule on the measures. money," Social Chris'tian Party 
Commuters waited fruille:.;sly at But hopes of passing the reforms leader ,Jairne Nnhot said. ''This WP bu<: stop<: Tuesday whilo others dimmed whon the powerful consorv­cannot allow." crossed barricades of yellow taxis. ative Social Christian Party, which Powerful leftist-led unions, stu­burning tires and club-wielding <lri­had supported Mahuad on past mea­dents and Jndian groups have vowod vm·s to get to their jobs. sures. nssailod the reforms as "inhu­to l'orcn Mahuad to back down on tho 
Tho government, empowered by a man" and vowed to block the tax reforms and have called for street 60-day state of emergency. says it increases. protnsts and bank occupations will clear tho barricades. Soldiers The economic crisis in Ecuador, a today. 

page 6 

The Observer• INTERNATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, March 17, 1999 
North Koreans grant access to suspected nuke site 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
In a major breakthrough, North 
Korea agreed Tuesday to let U.S. 
inspectors make several visits to a sus­
pected nuclear weapons site without 
charging Washington the $300 million 
it initially demanded for access. 
In return, the United States promised 
to lrnlp the famine-stricken communist 
nation increase potato yields. 
The dispute had threatened a 1994 
accord under which North Korea 
agreed to freeze what the United States 
believed was a developing nuclear 
weapons program, in exchange for 
energy supplies and help from the 
United States. South Korea and Japan. 
A joint statement issued after the lat­
est round of talks between U.S. 
Ambassador Charles Kartman and 
North Korean Vice Foreign Minister 
Kim Gye Gwan reaffirmed "Washington 
and ·Pyongyang's commitment to the 
1994 accord in its entirety." 
Since last August, the United States 
has been pressing for access to the 
Kumchang-ni underground site, 25 
miles northwest or Yongbyon, where 
U.S. officials believe North Korea may be dewiloping nuclear weapons in vio­lation of the 1994 accord. 
Kirn reiterated North Korea's claim 
that the site "has nothing to do with 
nuclear activities." He said, without 
elaborating, that it "is related to sensi­
tive national security purposes." 
Even though the United States refused tu pay the $300 million that North Korea demanded, Kim told reporters that his government was "very happy" with Tuesday's agrc<~­ment. 
Under its terms, North Korea will give the United States "satisfactory access" to Kumchang-ni, with an initial visit in May and additional visits "to remove U.S. concerns about ihe site's future use." 
Secretary of State Madeleine Albright said irr a statement that the U.S. team will have access to the entire site and follow-up visits can continµc "as long as our concerns about the site remain." 

The United States agreed in return to take a step "to improve political and economic relations between the two countries" by helping North Korea increast1 potato yields. 
Food shortages and l'amine-rclati~cl illnesses have killnd up to 2 million of North Kon!a's 23 million people during the past three years, according to U.S. congrnssional estimates. Two-thirds or all children under seven arc malnour­ished, and lack of rood has stuntr. d the growth of' millions more. 
Kartman said discussions on details of a pilot potato program will continue in the coming days and "we hope that it will lie imptementod very quickly." 
American officials noted that the 
------\Come for 
...dill~-""'--\ 
St. Pat's Day! 
:,Serving Bee 
&Cabbage, Also eS Serving 
----\\ 
Irish Coffee Drinks 
IOt~ S1111ih llt•.1111 ,\w1mt\ ll'or1u-r ol' Eddy &So. Ut•ntl Arn.) Smtih llmul, lmliirna lfifil7 (tl!ll287-li!ltifi 

\\\()\\~ \l}C 0\.\§~ 

United States gave 500,000 tons of food future concessions from the U.S.," he aid to North Korea last year through said in a statement. the U.N. World Food Program. 
Henry Sokolski, executive director of 
South Korea welcomed the develop­The Nonproliferation Policy Education ment and called on the North "to fully Center in Washington, said the 500,000 comply with the latest agreement," a tons of grain the United States is giving
Foreign Ministry statement said. 
North Korea will cost taxpayers $165 South Korean media, quoting uniden­million annually. 
tified Foreign Ministry sources, said Washington agreed as part of the deal to give North Korea another 600,000 tons of food and ease economic sanctions against the communist state. That report couldn't be immediately confirmed with U.S. officials. 
For the U.S. govern­ment, Kumchang-ni was a boulder in the middle of the road to improved relations with Pyongyang. 
A senior U.S. official, speaking on condition of anonymi.ty, said removing "the very substantial suspicion" about the site should have a salutary effect" on getting international funding for two nuclear power reactors for North Korea. as called for in the 1994 agreement. 
While Tuesday's agreement may resolve a major U.S. nuclear question, it will not diminish U.S. concern over a possible revival of North Korea's nuclear program. The United States al.so has expressed concern that North Korea may be producing biological and chemical weapons. 
House International Committee Chairman 
• Benjamin Gilman. R­N.Y., said he supported the agreement but was concerned that the precedent would encourage other rogue nations to charge the United States for "ensuring their r.omplj­anre with~ their international agree­ments." 
"This agrnemf'nt smacks of a food-for­acr.ess deal which cou Id lead to furth er provocative actions on the part of the North Koreans to extort 

CLASS OF 2000 * DINNER * 
to celebrate NCAA National· Championship Final 
at 

*******DAMON'S******* 
Monday, March 29th 
7:30 PM $5.00 per person 
+++++ Includes choice of... +++++ 
0 CHARGRILLED CHICKEN 
0 PRIME RIB *All with baked potato, salad,
come and drink 0 RIBS *Price includes tip and tax 
Tickets for dinner available at Lafortune beginning Thursday, March 1 8th 
(LIMITED TICKETS AVAILABLE) 

Room Contract Sign-ups: Thursday, March 18, 9 a.m.-5 p.m. and Saturday, March 20, noon -5 p.m. in the Catering office in the lower level of North Dining Hall 
Last day to sign housing contract is April 3 

He questioned what the United States will get from the deal, since North Korea is reportedly working on making weapons-usable uranium and has had almost a year to "clean out" Kumchang­ni. He also noted that the Defense Department has reportedly singled out 12 other sites it would like to visit. 
Wednesday, March 17, 1999 The Observer• NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
•

A !-'ftl~Ue io~ you didn't even kno'W 
.. d. 

you ma1ore··.. 1n. 
SCORE! Educational Centers give you the opportunity to contribute and learn in ways you never knew existed. 
We're doubling in size 
Join the  every year, which means  
SCOREI  we can guarantee you entrepreneurial  
team  challenges. At  
SCORE!, you will lead,  

manage, and market a growing business, and get the development opportunities you'll need to jump start your career. In as little as 2 to 3 years, you will be leading teams of 5 to 10 people while managing the financial performance of a half-million dollar business. We're looking for people with entrepreneurial spirit, proven leadership ability, and great communication skills. Join our Team. Drop off your resume at your career center nowl 
At tne Crossroads of 
education 
&:flusiness
•_, 
Exciting Career Opportunities af the Fastest-Growing Division of 

www.scoreiobs.com The Woshington Post Compony 
Judge hands down sentences for nine militia group leaders 
As.sociated Press 
BILLINGS, Mont. 

A federal judge slapped sti!T prison sentences on the leadors of the Montana Freemen on Tuesday as "a loud and clnar ffi()Ssago lo those who pass this hatred and ugliness around." 
freemen leader LeHoy Schweitzer drew 22 1/2 years, which his lawyer said amounted to a life sentence for the 61-year-old man. 
Other top figures among the anti-gowwnm1mt oxtremists were sen­tenced to as many as 15 years, but two women -wives of' Freemen -received sentences equal to thfl time they serv11d while awaiting trial. 
Schweitzer and six other defendants refused to enter the court­room, continuing to demonstrate their scorn for the government. They were able to watch the proceedings via TV from a holding coll after U.S. District Judge John Coughenour declined to have marshals bring them in by force,. 
Nine Freemen were convicted in two trials last year. They and their followers were accused of trying to undermine the nation's banking system by issuing thousands of bogus chocks totaling bil­lions of dollars. 
About two dozen members of the of the anti-government group, living on a farm on the plains of Montana, hold FBI agents at bay for 81 days in 1995 before surrendering without a shot being fired. 
Schweitzer was convicted of charges including conspiracy, bank fraud, threatening a federal judge, illegal possession of firearms and participating in t~e armed robbery of an /\BC crew covoring the Freemen. . 
The judge sentenr.ed Daniel Petersen Jr., probably the No. 2 man in thP-freeman hierarchy, to 15 years in prison and ordnrnd him t.o pay restitution of $39,845. 
Rodney Skurdal, 46; and John McGuire, 61, were also s1mtenced to 15 vears. 
Dale Jacobi, 57, a former Canadian police officer, received 13 years, nine months; Richard Clark, 12 years; ,and William Stanton, three years, four months. Agnes Stanton, William Stanton's wifo, and Cherlyn Petersen. Daniel Petersen's wifo, were released. 
In addition to maintaining they are not subject to l'oderal or stato laws, the Freemon also claimed that God intended whit,i people to rule the earth, that blacks are animals and Jews are descendants ol' Satan. 
· Coughenour referred to those beliefs by saying the sentences wern intended to "send a loud and clear rnossage to thoso who pass this hatred and ugliness around, and who encourage others to partic­ipate in these illegal schemes." 

C er, "" m c:a 'Cl C: ca ::,,... 0.., ""·­= .., I. cc .., -I. = .... 0 .., = Cl) E.., I. ca C. Cl) =  6Jhe ~~ 9?rtze tn ~ 4fistort and Crtttctsm The Department of Art, Art History and Design is pleased to announce its annual competition for the Riley Prize in Art History & Criticism. Current Notre Dame undergraduate and graduate students are invited to submit essays on any topic in the history of art or art criticism for consideration in the competition. Essays must deal with the visual arts. They may have . been written in conjunction with a course taken at the University, but need not have been. Rules governing the competition are available in the Art Department Office. Two copies of the submission must be delivered to the Art Department Office, 132 O'Shaughnessy Hall, by 3:00 PM, Monday, March 29, to be eligible . Prizes up to $350 wi11 be awarded. A student may only submit ONE entry.  

page 8 

The Observer• PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, March 1 7, I999 
------------------·-------­

Recharge your faith life after .spring Break! This Saturday! South Dining Hall • 10:30 am-5:30pm 
It's like a retreat, youth rally, and music fest all in one day! 
Joiri  v~  fov  d  dcJ1 of  
Pv-a~e,v-...  Be filled by the spirit in· _p J\1yer with studentsfrom all over camnus T .,,>i:\.,..:,-·.·-:~:~:iitft·<<'.'.  
Be moved by music & tuorship led.  
Fr. Cyp  sii~lio, OS  
wl special music  nn & Danie•  

Bech ,e rrle.
,Ze,ne,waI ... 

PLU~~ ~hoose from a variety of fait.·· ed by: 
Fr. Mark Poorma 
Jesus • Faith in Action • Pray ... · Vocations • Lent • Eucharist • ;fm 

,:;111,at::;::::~! 

··•••·····•••···•·•td 

~~li~tl.es•·: 
0MPUS_ 
f'v11Nl5TRY 
Sign Up Early to Reserve Your Spot! ; Email: ND.ministry.1@nd.edu or Call: 

Wednesday, March 17, 1999 The Observer. NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Group claims teaching programs need improvement 
Associated Press 
WASlllNCTON 

II' tlrn 11alion·s teaching f'orce is to g1it heltlff, coll!,grs 11<'1~d to improv11 Llw quality ol' the pro­grams that train them, says a task force of' collnge officials. 
The American Association ol' State Collnges and Universitios task force, which conducted a study of inacher-cducation pro­
grams, also plans a five-year study of college campuses that follow the group's recommen­dations to see whether 1.hev indeed produce better teachers·. One of the study's findings is 

ND-Colorprint 
The OIT is pleased to announce 
a new networked, full-color 
printing and copying service located in 114 CCMB. 
ND-CoJorprint offers: 
• 
full-color printing via the ND network 

• 
copying of full-color images 

• 
printing of Postscript and PDF files from disk (3-5" or Zip) 

• 
fast, low-cost service 

• 
24-hour turn-around for most jobs variety of paper sizes/weights 


ND-Colorprint also offers optional: 
• 
center folding, stapling (side or center), and/or collating 

• 
printing on both sides (duplexing) 


• enlargement and reduction (25%-400%) 

Payment can be made through your ND departmental account or by cash or check. Unfortunately, at this time we are unable to charge this service to student accounts. 
For pricing and more information about ND-Colorprtnt, visit our Web 
.¦ 
site at http://www.nd.edu/~ndolt/prlnters/colorxe.html 
.¦ 

Looking for a great job for your senior year? 
The Alumni-Senior Club is now accepting Bartender and D.J. applications. 

•
Apply today at the 
,. .<
Student Activities Office 
~ 
(31.5 LaFortune) 
0 
for the best job on campus!! 
Applications Deadline : March 26 

that teacher-education pro­grams havon't heon as well­financed as other academic programs. 
"It has been a cheap program on too many campuses for Loo long," said John Van de Wetering, vico president of tho college group. "There hasn't been the kind of investment to sustain the quality program we're talking about here." 

•Teachers 
bo thoroughly pm­pared in t.lrn subject rnatt<ir tlrny will teach. 

•Programs 
work to incrn,tsn their ethnic diversity. 

•Teachers 
be prnparcd to educate children from diverse culturns and adoquat11ly use classroom tnchnology. 


Othr,r on-campus academic 
programs can holp schools of 1iducation train lrntt.er teach­
The report Cll's, tho report suggests 'IT HAS BEEN A CHEAP rncomrnonds. /\ nationwidr history pro­
PROGRAM ON TOO
changes such gram. ror 
as morA MANY CAMPUSES FOR TOO nxampln, can a g gr c s s i v e LONG. ' offor thnsn recruitment ol' schools ideas top students, on preparing a incroasod pay .IO!!N VAN Dh' WETEJUNG wPll-rou11elod for professors VICE l'RFSJ/J!iNT OF A.Wi'RJ(.'AN social studios, 
anrl graduatPs 

AssOCJA'rJON ON .'-,'r11TE !\ll<l toadt(!r•and better education pro­
COI.LL'GHS AND UNI\ll:'/1Sl'IWS
coordination grams rrnnd 
with academic programs out­side schools of nducation. 
The task force, which includ­cJ coHHge and university prosi­dents and chancellors who sur­veyed studios of the nation's colleges, also recomnrnncl('d that; 
•Collngcs work with public schools to improve omployment conditions and establish prof'ns­sional development programs. 
hnllnr coopm·a-

Li on f'rom kinclPrgart.on-througll-12t.h­gradn schools, Uw rnport said. For nxample. srhool district~ should guard against having teachers instruct outside llwir suhje!'.t arnas. 
Tho task f'orcn also notnd that teacher pay is lower than many other profossions and that has hurt tho chancns of attracting and keeping good candidates. 
Lawmakers push for safe~ cigarettes 
A.isociated. Press 
WASHINGTON 
Democratic lawmakors have revived a 20-yoar cam­paign to develop a federal standard for a cigarette that is easily <Jxtinguished to lessen the chances it will start a fire. 
Previous efforts havo failed, blocked by opposition from the tobacco industry,
Jtep. Joe Moakley, D•Mass., a loader"" of the drive in Congress, said Tuesday hti hop~s the vocal support of' firefighters from across tho country will pel'$.uade 

moro mol'e -law-expandedmakers to 'THERE IS NOTHING 
tobacco and supp.rt the MORE TRAGIC THAN a smallt>r l~giSlatioh. · AN INNOCENT CHILD KILLED diamot.or. 
"There is About half n o t h i n g OR BURNED IN A HRE.' a dozen ciga­more tragic r o t t n s than an already on innocent RHP. JoE MOAKLET the market 
the commission, which sup­ports the bill. 
In 1996, cigarette-ignilnd residential firns caused l,140 deaths. 2,570 injuries and $326 million in property damage across tho country, according to safety commis­sion data. Every year, more than 80 children dio from residential fires involving cigarettes, Brown said. 
Fire-saf'e cigarettes, as they are called, would go out. by themselves instead of smoldering if dropped or lrft unattendod. Such cigarnttos may have filter tips, loss-
p O r O U S 
paprir, 
rhild killed 
or burned in 
a fire," said 
Moakley. 
He became involved with 
the problem after a careless­
lydiscarded cigarette caused 
a fir0 in 1979 that killed n 
familyof seven in Westwood. 
Ma·ss. 
Moakley's bill, which has 
-drawn mostly Domocratic support so far, would give the Consumer Product Safety Cotumi~sion 18 months to ,issµc .a fi1·c"safcty standard for cigarettes. Tobacco com­Pil-flieS: would Mvr3 a year to co1nply. 
Sen. Dir-k Durbin, D-lll., is 
ii'iiroducing tho bill In the 
Sonato. 
· Government scientists 
have said it is commercially 
nnd•technicnlly foasible to 
design cigarettes loss likely 
to start fires. 
''Wo can do the Joh," said 
Ann Brown, chairwoman of 

D-MASS. would meet 
such a stan­
d a r d . 

Moakley said. It would cost the govnrnment about $3 million to implement the new standard. 
Tho legislation is support­ed by numerous fire safoty 
groups, inclt1ding Urn National Fire Protnction Association, lnt11rnation al Association of Fire Chiefs and lntornational Association of Fire Fightnrs. 
"It would make our job easier." said Mike Mullnrrn, a 30-yoar Bost.on firefighter and vice president of the fi rn fighters association's New England branch. "A lot of the fires would ho cut out if this cigarette eamc onto Orn market." 
The bill's Hepublican co• sponsors includP Hep:,;. Connil-l l\fort~lla ol' Maryland and Shorwood Hoohlort of New York. 

VIEWPOINT 


Wednesday, March 17, 1999
page JO 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFHcF: P.O. Box Q, Nurre Dame. [N 46556 (219) 631-7471 
1999-2000 GENERAL BOARD 
ED!TOR-!N-CHl[f 
Mich elle Krup;t 
MANAGING EDITOR BuslNl'.SS MANAGER 1-.1. Shannon Ryan Dave: Rogcro 
AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR Laura Perelle 

NEIX'S EOITOR ...............................Tim Loi;a11 ADVERTISING MANAGER....................... Bryan Luu; YIEWP0l1'T EvrroR ............. Colleen Gaughen AD OF.SIGN MANAGER ...............Kenneth Kearney Srotus ED110IL ....................... Brian Kes.ler SYSTr.Ms MANAGFI\....................... Michael Revers ScfNF. EDITORS ..................Michael Vanegas CONTROLLER .................................. Tiruothy lane SAINT M,\ltv'S EOITOR .......Colleen McCarthy GRAPHICS EDITOR..............................joe Mueller PHOTO EDITOR ........................Kevin Dulnm WEB ADMINISTRATOR.............'.........Allison Krill, 
The Observer 1s che lndcpcn<lenc newspap~r publish,ed by the studcnrs of rhc Univc-rsi[y<if~oue Dame du La~ and Sa1r1r Mary's College. Ir docs not nece.sarily rdlcc[ rhe policies of the adminiitracmn ofelrhc:r institution, 'l'he news U. reported as accur:\tdy nnd objectively ru: pos.tibic. Unsigned cditorta!s represent the opinion of the majority 0 Frhe Ediror~in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assisrnnr Managing &!nor und deparrmcrn cd1ror.s. Canimcnr.aries, icrrers and rnhmms present the views ofrhe aurhors and nor necessarily those of The Observer, Viewpoint .~pace is available to ail m.emberi. of rhe Notre n.,_nic/S...im M:iry's wrnmunity anJ ro all re-adeti,. ·1 ·he free expression ofv:irying opinioh,s 1hm~h k"lkrs. 1~ enc our .agt:d 
Contacting The OLservcr 

Editor-m-Chief  631-4542  Otfice Manager/General Information  631-7471  
Managing Ediror/Assi~tanr ME  631-4541  Businm Office  631-5313  
News  631-5323  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
V1cwpo,nt  631-5303  Systems  631-8839  
Spom  631-4,4;,  Fax  631-6927  
S'-£ne  631-4540  Ad E.-Mai\  obscrvcr'@darwin.cc.nd.e-du  
Saint Mary·s  GJl-4324  News E-Mail  ob.~ervcr..obsnews. l@nd.edt1  
Photo/Web AdminiMrator  GJl-8,67  Viewpoint F-1vf ail  Viewpoint. l@n<l.edtt  



Mass, Mickey, XXX Bookstores and Touristos 
I've just returned from Orlando, Fla., which as we all 
know stands as the world's dream vacation site for one 
magical reason: adult bookstores. 
Three friends and I booked ourselves in a hotel that 
Ramada's homepage described as being located in the 
heart of Orlando's shopping district, and we, stupidly, 
did not instantly question what one might be shopping 
FOR. We had been encountering· billboards advertising 
a fine enterprise entitled "Fiona's Fantasy Wear" for 
miles, which we found hilarious, until we discovered 
that Fiona's Fantasy Wear was located approximately 
=============== eight feet 
away from 
our hotel's 
pool. 
Other con­
veniently 
located 
Mary Beth 
establish­
ments 
included: 

---------------"XXX Adult 
Factory Outlet." "The Boobie Bungalow" and "Miss ,. 
Elise's Club for Fine Gentlemen," You can just imagine 
the standards Miss Elise set for one to qualify as a Fine 
Gentleman. (For instance: You do not, necessarily, 
have to be a man.) 
Two blocks down from the Heart of Orlando's 

Shopping District, we happened upon exactly what you 
might expect: a Catholic Church. I had been appointed 
the Religious Coordinator of the group-largely 
because rwas the one who made the widely hailed dis­
covery that Catholics travelling on Fridays in Lent are 
excused from abstention and fasting -so, "Mandy's 
Thong Outlet" at my back, rpeered through the frosted 
doors of SL Monica's of the Water to see if it was 
acceptable for Sunday Mass. 
It wasn't. 
"There are no kneelers, the baptismal font looks like 

a Bot Springs Portable Spa, and I saw a sign-up sheet 
in the vestibule for something called Liturgical 
Movement and Dance Ministers," I reported. "And the 
closest thing I saw to a Papal flag was a folt banner 
that said 'Yahweh Rocks the House."' 
That left us with Sacred Heart Traditional Parish, 

which was seven blocks and 40 years in the other 
direction. This place·had kneelers, all right. It also had 
High Mass candles, a pack of nuns in full habit. and 
enough incense to choke the Pope. 
Ellis 
And chapel veils. 
I've often wondered how my generation, the first born into post-Vatican II world, would fare ifwe were ever shoved into the Church culture that raised our parents. We were brought up in an America were the Notre Dame bookstore sells watercolors of small chil­dren playing soccer with Jesus. (Go down there and look if you don't believe me.) What would a bunch of wimp 22-year-olds do if we had to walk a mile in non­patent leather shoes? 
I know precisely what we would do: We would put our chapel veils on backward. 
Chapel veils, for those of you who are fellow Spirit of Vatican II babies, are lace headpieces that women must wear inside a church if they have no other head covering. There was a basket of them at the church entrance, and we were looking at nothing but the lace­covered backs of female heads, so we numbly put two and two together and plopped them on. One of us tried to tie it under her chin, Grace Kelly kerchief-style; another (okay, me) got it tangled up in a necklace and spent the entire Mass dangling a charm shaped like a space shuttle from the side of her head. It took the vow-of-silence monk sitting behind us 10 minutes of Catholic charades to straighten us out. He was patient, however, probably because the second he saw us trooping through the door in our shower sandals he said to himself (silently),: "Oh. Jesus-playing­soccer Catholics." 
You truly do not know your friends until you have seen them in chapel veils. We looked like 5-year-olds playing wed­ding, and all of us insisted upon being the bride. "We are all going to hell," one said to me out of the side of her mouth as we perched, terrified, on a marble kneeler, the hems of our skirts, while well out of Fiona's Fantasy Wear range, stopping significantly short of our knees. 
My friend seated next tu her took in the Papal and American flags on the altar and, like all post-Vatican II Catholics, immediately associated large banners with long Mass length and started to panic. "Are you sure this is only going to take an hour?" she hissed. 

[ picked up a missal, curious as to what was sung here. Hmmm. Where were the hymns? I flipped far­ther. There were just ... words. Foreign words. Oh God! It was going to be in Latin! The whole thing! "How are we supposed to know when to hold hands during the Our Father?" another asked. 
I shook my head, one hand clamped over my chapel veil. "I don't think we have to worrv about that." 
The Mass was a large-scale, Cath.olic version of Simon Says. We were always at least two genuflections and one Deus behind everybody else. As watched the rest of the congregation head for the Communion rail, I sent a frantic "Don·t put your hands out! Don't put you hands out! We have to take the host on the tongue!" down the line. 
"What? Whv?" "We have to.go up to the altar and kneel at the 
Communion rail!" I hissed. "The WHAT?" "Just follow what the nuns arc doing!" We stumbled to the front of the church, attempting 
as we did so to simultaneously lower hemlines and raise necklines. The priest approached us, muttering Latin, heavy vestments glistening. 
"You," whispered the friend kneel­ing next to me, shoving her chapel veil out of her face, "are fired as the Religious Coordinator." 
Mary Reth Rllis, former Religious Coordinator for the Saint Mary's College Regina Hall Reunion Trip to Florida, wildly volunteeredfor, and, much to her delight, was chosen to be a part of, a production ofIndiana Jones' Epic Stunt Spectacular Show at MGM-Disney World because 1) she wished to fully integrate herselfin the spirit ofSpring Break and tu envelope her inner child in the magic ofDisney, and 2) the guy playing Indiana Jones was totally hot. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not nec­essarily those of The Obsemer. 
¦ Dnrmcsm.mv GARRY TRUDEAU 


'some of us are becom­
ing the men we want­ed to marry.' Gloria Steinem 
VIEWPOINT 

WcJnesd.iy,March 17. 1999 os~tRvER ------------------------page 11 
¦ COLUMN 
Aristotle, Marx, Liberation Theology False -We Need Ex Corde for Truth 
Only Truth rnn sd us frl'c. Suppose that in and sell), il is a socio-economic political sys-a co11nlry half of Um news writnrs, out of' tnm, Its .lnslls is a Messianic figure in tlrn malicn. 1wgligl'tH'I', or "comnwrcial spiril'' sense that its Che Guevara is a Mnssianic lig­wrotc• outright lim; in tlw 1wwspapers. urn. Loi. mn give you an example. In the .'it1pp11s1• that llll'r<' is no w11y of" telling Fdmrnry edition of a campus journal, an lwtwl'Pll rPal ,wws and made-up nnws. Now, article re-int<irproted the parable or lhe vine-in a wisl' division or labor. society has given yard 1iwnnr, Mt 20: 1-16). This is the one Lo !hf' nwdia Ow job of collecting and dis-wh,irn tlrn owrwr goos out at <lilfornnt tirrn~s wminaling g1!1ll'ral in!'ormat.ion ,tbout cur-of day lo hire workers, and at the end of the l'f!lll ,•vc•nts. In this imaginnry country, a day pays all of tlrnm the samn amount. The gn•at majority of th,• poprrlntion will .icccipt author of tho articlr. says that mw living in all llio:,,1! I ins ral.lwr than Lake tlw Lrouhln nl' the world ol' childhood would agree with finding out. l't!oplP will g,•nrrally ignorn llw none otht!r lhan SL John Chrysostom: you alarmists who point uut tlw truth: that thn don't nerd to be a Jnw, or a southern llll'<lia. in that 1·ou11trv. is 11 fraud. Europ1ian or a white lo sham in tlrn Kingdom 
In this soril'ly. Wf' 1;aV1! giv1\11 to the acad,i-of God. It doesn't matter il"you wnre baptized rui,1 1111· job ol' wllcding and disseminating ai birth or on your deathbed: if, by the end of inl'ormation m1 purtin,1111' suhjr.cts. I low can the day, you havn been a good and worthy a soplrnmorn. taking n dasH narnud after her sc•rvant, you will conrn into tho Father's n1ligi11n. taught hy a profossor l)(llding an Ilousn. I suppose lhis goes tu show how 1•1Htowcd chair, l1\II wlwt.hcr she is hcing told much wo need to be like childrrn. llw truth, llw whole, truth. and nothing but But the professor says that anyone who th1• truth, or just fashionable opinio11? Wo has aged and worked realizes the true 1:01111• to oilh!g1• pn\dsnly on thn assumption meaning of the story: No. it is not about your tlml we will bP tuught with impartiality. soul. it is a story of unemployment and the ohjl'l"livity, and honesty. If our profossors living wage. Although urwmployment is an lt!ach us nothing bul tlwir prnjudicr.s, what outrage and tlrn living wage a worthy idea, is llw good or 1'.0111ing lo coll11gn'! This is the author makns the same mistake that the 
. espiicially tnl<' if tlwy covtH" their prnjuclices disciples of Jesus made. They thought that with suhtlP argunwnts. masking whal tlrny Ile had comr. lo change socio-economic and rnally tc~ach. VNy chwcrly, limy liP. political reality. to overthrow the oppression 
This is wlial 1•:x Cordi! Eccksiiw goes of the Empire. lie had come to break the against. for il is tlw papal docunrnnt setting bondage of sin. I am being Pxtremely crude down what it is lo lw a !:!!!!!=============== hem {maybe loo crude), Cntholic· tmiv1irsily. Tlwsn but it is intentionally: 
who say it is about inqui-liberation theologians
G b • I 

sitional trials am giving arc much subtler than
a r1e 

too mud1 imporlancn lo thi·s. The liar who con­1·1irh1is from many cnn-vinced them is quite turi,•s ago. Tiu• clever. My point is that
Mart,·nez 

l11qt1isitio11, in tlw form if liberation theology that yot1 and I dn!ud, is needs to be taught. let it long dmuL Thi' fornwr be taught, for some of 1 !oly Of'lirn has no secu-what it says is true and lar pow1!r today. It cannot burn, it cannot good. But it cannot be prnsentcd as 100 per­exilt•. IL 1·.an mnrnly han: only those with cars cent Christian Gospel, for it is not. lo lwar will lislm1. hut those who don't care It is not against the teaching of lies that we won't pay alttmlion to tlrn Congregation for rally: it is against the teaching of lies as if llw Doctrine of tlrn Faith. they were truths. Throughout history, many 
Ex Corde Ecclcsiae is about honesty. such have tried to find truth and failed, in diITer­a lonely word in some academk circlns. Ex ent degrcns. because they were looking the Corde Ecdesiae. simply put, is about truth in wrong way. Examples are Aristotle and advm"tising. Catholicism in some Universities Marx. We need to know about them because born f'rorn llw heart of the Church is a bit of' often thr.y will tell us much that is true, even just a jacket: something we wear l'or 1wnry-if they made mistakes. But we do not need to nne lo smi. but nol something that we carry deceive ourselves about the nature of what insidn. We act and spnak within Cathnlic cul-they taught. We do not need to call it the turn. a culturn filled with words like "Our Truth, or teach it in way that will lead to l.ndy" and "Catholic," symbols like a cross confusion. That is what Ex Corde Ecclesiae is and priestly vostmcnts, smells like incense about. and sounds like bells. If this does not lead us We do not need to be taught lies. The Devil lo liv11 livns nf holiness and virtue, il is all for has enough opportunities to get us into sin naught. If our theology classes do not lead us for us to pay $25,000 for some extra oppor­to proclaim .Justic11 and Truth and Human tunities. You see, there will always be a door Dignity. wn have gained a diploma but lost open for sin: we do not need to open even om soul. If' WP call ourselves Catholics, or more doors. Freedom does not rnquire Christians, or even "just good people," but tr.aching lies in the College of Engineering: we live in vice, away from the Way of the why should anything but truth be taught in l.ord Jesus -as taught by our Mother thn the College of Arts and Letters? Clearly, Church -wn arn just wnaring a nirn jacket. Truth docs not need lies beside it to be .lust as you don't need lo go to Notrn Dame understood: lies are the absence of truth, to wrntr an ND jacket. I don't need to live like taking many forms and disguises. Let's a CaU101ic to talk likn one. uproot the lie, call it by name, and learn to 
Ex Corde Ecclesiae, some say, is a straight-avoid it. Truth alone will set us free. The jacket, limiting frnedom, while leaving the only thing that shackles the mind is a lie, the man within unchanged. If Ex Corde Ecclnsiao only slavery is choosing a partial good over was ahout speech rodes and banned books it the Greatest Good. Like the Cheshire Cat told would be true thal the Pope wants to dress Alice, knowing were you are bul not know­lleo1>lo up likn Catholics, tin thnir arms ing were you want to be is all but useless. around tlwir backs, and lheir souls bn Knowledge simply is not enough: you neod damnnd. Bul Fx Cordn Ecclesiae is about a way, a direction, an end. Accumulating !ming hmrnst. honest lo God and honest to facts will not make us freer or happier or one another. Ex Corde Ecclesiae is rr.ally better. In other words, freedom is a word about making somno,w who wears Um ND that makes no sense without Truth; lies, jack<•t hln1~d blue and gold. It is about mak-prejudice, envy, hypocrisy, in short, sin is ing the Catholicism ol' Catholic universitir.s what will make us slaves. somnthing that soaks the university, trans-University of' Notre Dame, listen well. He forms it, and r1witalizes it, evory day. Ex has set boforn you today life and death, the Cord,, EcdHsiao is a lirst step toward Lifo, blessing and thn curse, truth and lies. towards tnrn ll!stire, toward trur. Freedom. Choose well. and live. Choose poorly. and 
Cas1\ in point: what is wrong with Marxist perish. l.ilwralion Theology'! (Not to be confusod with simply Marxism). That it is not a theolo­Gabriel Xauier Martinez is a _qraduate stu­gy at all; ullimatnly, it is just a sociology. It is dent ofEconomics. sold to us with a deceptive label. Thr. The views expressed in this column are Christianity is proclaims is not a religion (as those ofthe author and not necessarily those in rl'ligarn, rn-connect to God. follow man, ofthe Observer. 
¦ LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

ND Cannot Afford to Ignore 'Dykes,' Hate and Fear on Campus 
I'm sick of being called a homosextrnl. I'm sick of b11ing callml a lesbian. I'm a dyke. You want a word to use -call nw who I am. Is that offon­SiVfl'? ls that going too far'? I don't think so. I am not just who I line! attractive, which is what most of tho accepted terminology hoing usml implies. A dyke is a person -tho word is big enough to embody an atti­tude. a perspective on the world. Which is what I am. what I have. And 1 think understanding that makes mo harder to ignore. Because, yes, I do want respect. And yes, I do want it now. This is my school too, and I'm sick ol' apologizing for being here. And this is my voice. And if pnopln won't listen when I speak, then I'll bn damned if I won't yell until some­thing does happen. 
Mr. Hobbins says in his letter which condemns the act ol' spray-painting thn sidewalk with a pro-gay rights messagn, that actions such as tlwse, "only affirm the very stereotypes that the supporters ol' gay and lesbian civil rights .are hoping to dispel." He says that, "in acting radically and criminally and immorally, these people can only hope to be classiffod as such." Well, I'm onr. of "those pr.ople" who supports gay rights. And to Mr. llobbins and all the rest of the Notrn Damn community, I can nnly say this: spray-painting is indeed an act of' vandalism and I am in no way try­ing to exculpate those individuals involved in it. But just as I don't judge all straight people hy those choice phrases that are omnipresent in tho bathrborns and on tho library carrels, neither can ANY entire community of people be judged hy the actions of' any individual. Whoever painwd cer­tainly had no authorizr.d warrant from all of us in the gay community to do so. 
That said, the atmospherr of hatrnd here (and if' you qunstion the verac­ity of such language, please contact mo or any other quenr hnre and I'll share some fun stories with you) has nothing to do with "radical" gay pro­paganda or stereotypes that spring from it. fl has to do with thn ability of students on this campus to continue to ignore what it HEALLY means to be gay. Being gay, being a dyke, is not all about debating word connota­tions in the Catechism. It is not about coming to a deep undnrstanding of du Lac. It is about doing an awful lot of normal things with the knowledge that half of campus thinks you are profoundly abnormal. It is frustrating as hell to think that people can walk by you and never know that you are ''one of them," but yet think that they have a position on the "issue." The issue being me. 
In the two years since I have come out, I have been forced lo stop seeing myself as an individual. I'm not just me any more. I am thn local reprn­sentative of queer nation. I'm the gay friend. I'm the lesbian down the hall. And that's the people who know. To everyone else who passes me on the quads, I'm just that same-old invisible problem. They have no idea that it is I who is being obsessively discussnd in campus media. That ral­lies are held about me. That Sean Vinck has likened me to every kind of perverted sicko that his thesaurus lists. Most people just wish I would go away. Live with that for a day. Or imagine it for a moment. You think I like reading all the rndundant, boring "gay discussions" that go on in the paper? You think I like being reminded of how dilforrnt I am from all of you God-fearing, respectable students'! 
Exactly what do you think a dyke is? I'm an English and anthropology major. I studied in Dublin last year. Ijust applied to do service witb the Jesuit Volunteer Corps next year. One day I want to get a masters in pub­lic health and get into policy making and advocacy. I only drink my coffee black. I'm from Baltimore and thus hate the Yankees. And yes, I like girls. But what does that mean to you? That I'm a bad Catholic because you are told to know me as and to call me a sinner'! All you folks out there that laughed at the cartoon in the paper where the guy reprinted a "lesbians make better lovers" sign and then thoughtfully provided hiH phone num­ber so that I could call him (I suppose for a more morally appropriate random hook-up) -playing on all the little heterosexual male fantasy material about lesbians -what you am laughing at is my life. That's the crap I have to deal with just because I say that I exist. And I'm supposPd to be pissed at folks who spray-paint a sidewalk because Tl IEY arr the ones who aren't respecting my fundamental human dignity'! Give me a break. 
I'm all for the PSA's and the College Deans' and the Faculty Senate's and OUTreach's efforts to work for change within the systNn -I'm involved in all of that myself. But nothing's happening. And nothing CAN or WILL happen in a system that starts from the premise that there is a fundamental inequality and diffc~rence bntwncn myself and my straight friends. I am not being given a voice that is big or loud enough to encom­pass all of me. And this campus desperately needs to hear what we have to say. So maybo some activism from outside tho system isn't so bad after all. Without Malcolm, would anyone haV£~ listmwd to Martin? Evnn if all I do is offend you, at least I won't be so easy to ignore. If the University only wants warm, fuzzy. docile, little queers to talk to, line. I just want us lo be heard-to have a bit of a position to negotiate from. And if' it takes people playing big, bad, scary dykes to make that happen, well, we're recruiting. 
Stephanie Snyder Senior, Pasqucrilla East March 16, I999 


Wednesday, March 17, 1999 
Erin Go Rock 

In hono·r of St. Patricl.'s Da.,,, "We al the Music Scene present the lop fi~e Irish Lands. 

House Of Pain 
(So they're not from Ireland, but they're the closest that Ireland will get to rap.) 


Wednesday, March 17, 1999 OBSERVER ----------------------page 13 


SOME OTHER QUICKIES 

Photo courtesy of Reprise Records 
Orgy 
Candyass 
Rcpt;sc Ilccords 
** (out of fh,c)

Tlwboys l'rom Korn finally gol Lirnd of writing songs and sc:rPaming tlwm out al the top of' tlwir lungs. they didn't rPally want to takn up a st11picl hobby likn stamp c11i1Pcti11g. righl'1 lnstnad, they startPd a rncord compa­ny. 111 conjunction with !lPprise Hn<'.orcls, Korn l'ound11rl U<•111P11tn•<' Hnronls and s!.nrkcl kicking out somn of thn lJl'st 1•lp1·1 rnnic music sirH:t' ... wPII si1wt• thPmsc1lv11s, Tht• firs! nllrnm from tlw first band on this fl('(lgling lalwl is "C:andyass" l'rom Orgy. Tlw ontirt• album was n1cordPd in a t·ahin 1111 lop of' a mountain rwar Tahm•, with I.ill' band nwm­lwr~ 11Parly going stir-rrazy from cabin fewer. \Nhile most rwo­plP wo11ld lu• quitP w1acdul and sPnrno atop a s1H>w-cap1wd pPak, tlw boys from Orgy W<'l'P going n11ts in llw <1nclos11d Pnvi­ro11111P11t. But instPad of trying to hack Pach otlwr to bits a la lad Nidwlson in "ThP Shining," thl' band fi.\d llinir aggressive 1•11wl ions and slight dPrang.. 1111111[ into tlw raw and Pdgy "C:andynss." Tlw album and tl11• hnnd haVI' found <\arlv succ:nss with tlm rr•IPasi• of' "l\lm• Monday" a c·liilling rnmakn ;11' tlw '80s song by N('\\' OrdPr. l i11f'orttm11Le1ly. Lhat lwp1w11s to lw l>y f'ar the hap­piPst 111111' of' !lw alb11m. Tlw rPst. of tlw songs t•itlwr 11xplorp tlll' darkPr sit!P lll' sPxtmlity ("Stitdms," "1.-Ptisha" ancl otlwrsl and c•xisLPn1·1• ("lliss1•ntio11") or simply lash out violPntly against P\'Prything f"rom sodf'ly ("Social l·:nemy"l to nx-girl­fri,·mls (pit'k any songl. :\t tinws, tl11• album gol's far lrnyond tlw r!'alm or crec1py into tht•_simply dis1urhing. llowr1wr, "Candyass." with !ht• Pxcep­lion oi' "Bltw Monday" and its St'rnnd singln "Stitchc~s." was rwv<'r intt•rulr•d f'llr a mainstrPam audiP11<:11. Just as il does for slH•1u· lwislPrlrwss, "C:andyass" puslws tlw <111vPlopn for t1!Pc­tronir 11111sir by bringing a i<w1·I of sophistication to tlrn sav­agl'l'y. Orgy takPs a litlll' bit off Llw i!h1ctronic edge liwy inlwr­itc•d l'rnrn Korn and attnmpl.s to srnoolh the nwlodics (il" Limy 1·1111 ill' c·alJPd lll<'imlil's) into a frightPning hilmd of raw nmo­ti1111. Tlw allium 's stn•ngths .an• its daring and innorntion in Picc­tronir music. and its n•nrnkf' ol'"Blt1t• Monday." Its \Vl'akrrnss is Iha! its vision o!' lili1 is so dark and brooding· that it will bothnr 1•vpry111w hut l\'larilvn Manson fans. Overall. fans of Korn and P!Pr·troni!' will lik1• this allrnm, hu! probably very l'cw otlwrs. 
•

~II 
re~ ¦ews 

written Ly Ric~ Sil-veslrini 

FUN LOVIN' CRIMIIU.LS 
100% Colombian 
Capitol Records 
"I 00% Colombian" is the lntnst installment f'rom a great hunch of musicians. The album has a little bit of' funk, some hlucs and a whole lot of' snul. "100%" pays tribute to Barry While and jams with B,B. King. This album is a gem you're not likcily to hnar nn any local radio sta1ion because of Urn group's pnnchanl for using those littl<i fnur-lctl1)r­worrls. Not only is this n wonclerf'ul survcy of' somo great blues. funk and soul, but it also makes great b,u'.kground music for any romantir, r.ncountm·. 
**** (out of fi\'c) 

Photo courtesy of Capitol Records 
VARIOUS ARTISTS 
Playing By Heart Sdtk. 
Capitol Records 
Them is a very eclectic mix hem. It's got a lilt.IP bit of 1werything, but not enough upon which to hlnw what little scratch you have left after Spring 8r<1ak. · 
*j (outoffi\'c) 
Akr years of struggling, numerous person­al changes and a numlmr of missed oppor­tunities. Dovetail .Joint is finally breaking Jut. Ilowfwer, its attnmpt not to stand out is what separates Dovetail Joint from the crowd. They stick to the simple and rnfreshing philosophy of putting musk first and leaving imaging to bands like Sugar Hay, The rr,sult of this philosophy is the hand's down-to-earth sound, which is a throwback to classic lwartfolt rock with a touch of' alternativn. Dovntail .Joint strug­

glnd for yoars on tlrn gru­c:an bc1 dnsrrilwd as con­eling-Chicago club srrnn sistcmt -tlw band sticks
B'ovetail Joint WPrP thnir only bn1aks Lo tlwir basic, quality being heartbrnaks as sound just on tlw alt1•nrn­potnntial rncord dPals 001 tiVP sidi> of' rork and foll through time after variPs tlw tmw a littlt• for time. Fronlman Charles individual songs, 
Columbia Records 

Gladf'nltt•r and rlnrmmnr "Lullaby" and "Afraid" Jon Dapii-r, tlw heart o[' *** (oot of five) sl.ow things down. 

"l:xrt• pt v\'h c> n Yo 11 •rt• Latp" skips along likn a third gradnr. but tlw rnsl of thn songs mostly s110111 to ovnrlap, IlowPVPI", tlrnr<' is mason "I .nvel on tlw I nsidn" rnc11ivl'd such a grPa t rnsponse in Chicago and is currnntly numhnr I 9 on Billboard's Modern l{ock chart. It's an original piP<'P of' song writing with a real honesty and c•motion behind both tlw lyrics and the music, Thn album's stnmgths are its fundamentally sound twws. smart lyrics and general listenabilily. Its weaknesses arc its slight rnpetition and lack of range, Ovt!rall this Joint is smokin', 
-
.. 
Dovetail since me,~Ling in llw sixlh gradn. watched as otlH\r musicians, frw,• tratcd by thn lack or succm,s. left the band. But tlrn two stu/k to their convictions ol' making good music and writing honnsl: songs. 
Success f'or Dovetail finally struck when thn band's lirst single "Lcv0I on th!i Inside" landnd on a local music sampler produced by the Chicago radio station Q101. Within onr wr,ck of the song's debut. it rockctncl lo number one on Ql01 's rnquesl list. With the release of their debut album. "001." tho Chicago quartet is looking to expand beyond 

Photo courtesy of Capitol Records 
VARIOUS ARTISTS 
Blast From The Past Sdtk. 
Capito] Records 
The movie stinks. So does the soundtrack. It dons rehash some classics like! H.E.M.'s "It's tlrn End of' the World As We Know It," so it just avoids tho drnaded wro shamrocks. 

playing by heart 

"'""j
ilUII lllil 
IIU fill.ii fiitlll 111'11(111 111 i:trl [l[Jt" Pllmn 
m, 
Ill ·•I Lti;I!! wn:11111 
Lut: 
111 I JI' IIM 
llin 
lil :\lltl 

Photo courtesy ol Capitol Records 
Chicago and thn midwesL "001" offers IO solid 
• tunes, including "Lnvnl." and rwarly every song l'Pa­turcs the band's tight rnnlodins and intl'lligc•nt lyrics. lleck, some of t.hnse lyrics arP so smart you'd think they canrn right out of a thnsaurus (n.g. inqwtus. resplendnnt. and clairvoyant?'??), Thn songs tlmm­selvcs rangn in topics from t>quality and d<1cnit in relationships ("Level on llrn lnsidp" and "So Graciously Said") to the 11xistP11cP of God ("Oh My God"). 
Musically. thn album 

page 14 The Observer• SPORTS Wednesday, March 17, 1999 
¦ NBA 
Sprewell chokes Clippers with season-high 31 points 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK 

Latn•ll SprPwPII scored 18 of his sea­son-high 31 poinls in the second quar­f Pr and till' \:t'\\' York Knirks scored thl' first I-! points of the game in a I L:1-S9 \'icitll'~' Tuesday night over the Los \nge\ps Clipµe1·s. 
It was the third victory in three nights for the Knicks, who became the fifth '.'JBA team to swet'p a back-to­back-to-back set this year. 
Allan Houston added 24 points and Lurry Johnson had 20 as the Knicks had three players reach 20 points for tlrn second night in a row. They are 3-0 since reports surfaced LhaL Jeff Van Gundy's job was in jeopardy. 
Lamond Murray and Maurice Taylor had 18 points apiece for the Clippers, who dropped to 1-20. 
New York wasted no time taking con­trol, making its first four shots from three-point range -two by Johnson and one each by Houston and Charlie Ward . .Johnson then scored inside to make it 14-0, and the lead increased to 19-2 a litLle more than five minutes into the game. 
The Clippers pulled to 31-21 by the end of the first, but Sprewell kept the Knicks comfortably ahead through the second quarter by scoring with ease against Los Angeles· disinterested defense. 
Sprewell had five free throws, a pair of layups, two mid-range jumpers, a 21-footer and a three-pointer in the second quarter, shooting 6-for-11 while playing the entire_ period as the featured player in the Knicks' offense. 
Sprewell, coming off a season-high 28-point performance against Milwaukee on Monday and a 16-point outing Sunday against Charlotte, fin­ished l 1-for-17 from the field and increased his scoring average from 
14.9 to 16.5. He has played in 10 of the Knicks' 23 games. 
"The more he plays, the better he'll be," Van Gundy said of Sprewell prior to the game. "But I don't think it will be a straight line up." 
Los Angeles had trouble getting its deficit below double digits the rest of the way. It was 59-42 at halftime, 81­70 entering the fourth and 105-79 by the time Van Gundy emptied his bench with 4:09 left. 
The Knicks shot a season-high 56 percent from the field and improved to 6-0 when shooting 50 percent or bet­ter. They are 4-0 when scoring 100 or more points. 
HEAT 94, WIZARDS 85 

Tim Hardaway had 24 points, includ­ing a Callaway jumper with 53.8 sec-ands left, and added nine assists as the Miami Heat beat the Washington Wizards 94-85 on Tuesday night for their fifth straight victory. 
Alonzo Mourning had 19 points and 14 rebounds as Miami won its 11th straight at home. The Heat also have won nine of their last 10 games.. P.J. Brown added 18 points in 26 minutes on 6-of-7 from the field. 
Mitch Richmond scornd 2l points, but made just 6-of-18, and Juwan Howard added 18 points and 15 rebounds for the Wizards. The HE>at hit a season-high 54 percent (32-of-59). 
Howard's eight straight points span­ning tho third and fourth quartPrs helped Washington cut a 65-45 deficit to 73-67. The Wizards close to 82-77 with 5:05 left after .Jeff Mcinnis hit a second straight foul-Jim~ jumper. 
Hardaway then made one of" two free throws and following a Wizards' miss, drove the lune for a floater to boost Miami's lead to 85-77 with 4:04 left. Richmond's three-pointer wilh 1:50 left ended a 3:15 scoring drought for Washington and cut Miami's lead to 88-80. 
Ben Wallace dunked to make it 88­82, but Hardaway delivered an off-bal­ance fallaway jumper for a 90-82 advantage with just under a minute left. 
llichmonrl scored nine points and Howard six as the Wizards closPd the third quarter with an 18-8 run trail 73-63 entering the fourth quarter. 
Miami led 49-38 at the half thanks to a late flurry of six points from Mourning and a three-pointer by Hardaway. Brown scored eight points in the first quarter and 12 by halftime on 5-of-5 shooting. 
LAKEilS 107, TIMBERWOLVES 101 
Glen Rice scored eight of his 22 points in the final five minutes and Shaquille O'Neal had 24 points as the Los Angeles Lakers defeated the Minnesota Timberwolves 107-101 on Tuesday night. 
The Lakers won for the 11th time in 12 games since Kurt Rambis replaced Del Harris as coach. But it was their first win under Rambis without Dennis Rodman, who missed his second straight game for personal reasons. 
The Timberwolves lost their third consecutive game and are 1-4 since trading Stephon Marbury to the New Jersey Nets. Also, Minnesota played without injured guards Anthony Peeler and Malik Sealy, leaving them with only three healthy guards. 
Joe Smith led Minnesota with 22 
points and Kevin Garnett added 21. All 
five Minnesota starters scored in dou­
ble figures. 
M_innesota led 95-92 on GarnPtt's first three-pointer of the season with 
3:57 to play. Hut Derck Harper and Hice hit consecutive three-pointers in the final three minutes tu give the Lakers a 98-95 lead. 
Terrell Brandon hit a 20-footer to bring Minnesota within one, but Kobe Bryant responded with a reverse layup and a three-pointer to put Los Angeles up 103-97. 
The game went back and forth in the second half after Minnesota led 54-47 al halftime. The Lakers passer! them at 64-62 on Rice's three-pointer with 6:10 to play, and neither team Jed by more than four points until the Lakers' lato run. 
Minnesota led 7 8-75 after three quarters on consecutive baskrts by Andrae Patterson, but was outscored 
i.n the fourth quarter !'or the eighth time in the last nine games. 
Los Angeles led 31-29 after the first quarter, but Minnesota's front line of Garnett, Smith and Dean Garrett scored 19 points on a 25-12 run that gave the Wolves a 54-43 lead. The Wolves held the Lakers to 16 points in the second quartflr; it was the fewest points Minnesota has given up in t~e second quarter this year. 
The Lakers used a 21-8 run to takfl a 64-62 lead on Rice's three-pointer. 
ROCKETS 101, TRAIL BLAZERS 93 
Scottie Pippen wanted more offense and he got it at a good time with 18 points and nine a_ssists as the Houston Rockets held off the Portland Trail Blazers' fourth quarter charge for a 101-93 victory Tuesday night. 
llakeem Olajuwon had 21 points and Charles Barkley added 15 points and seven assists for the Rockets, who almost blew a 19-point third-quarter lead. 
Pippen, who complained he has not been a part of' the offense, got his wishes answered in the first quarter when he scored six points and took four shots, one less than he had the entire game Sunday against Phoenix. 
For the game, he was 6-for-11 from the field, went 4-for-4 at lhe free throw line and got eight rebounds. 
The Rockets led at 80-61 with 1: 17 to go in the third quarter and by 91-76 with 5:59 to play. 
The Trail Blazers' full-court pressure defense helped them cut Houston's lead to five points two times, the last at 97-92 with 1: 19 to play on a basket by Rasheed Wallace. 
Portland went 11 minutes, until 6:50 of the fourth quarter, without a basket and was forced to rely on defense and free throws during that stretch. The Blazers hit 12-of-14. 

Aftnr fighting hard for a 54-51 half­time lead, the Rockets outscored the Trail Blazers 26-1 2 in the third quar­ter, capitalizing on technical fouls by Brian Grant, Wallace and coach Mike Dunleavy. Cuttino Mobley hit all thrne penalty shots. 
Damon Stoudamire led Portland with 17 points and Walt Williams had 15. 
SUNS 110, BUCKS 92 

The Phoenix Suns got 20 points from Cliff' Robinson anrl 19 from Tom Gugliotta in a 110-92 rout of the trade­depleted Milwaukfin Bucks on Tunsday night. 
The Rucks losl t!rnir fourth straight ganrn since trading away their best offorisivr playrr (Terrell Brandon) and hest defender (Tyronn llill) last week for Sam Cassell, who has bone chips in his right ankle and won't pl·ay for another week or two, and several oth­ers who eith<'r are hurt or aren't help­ing. 
With Vinny Uel Negro again trying to run tho offnnse at the point and nobody consistently setting pir.ks and doing the dirty work that llill usnd to, thr Bucks were quickly outclassod, falling behind 33-15 after one quarter and 63-36 after two. They got no ci()s­er than 16 in the second half'. 
Gugliotta's 4-of-4 shooting sparked a first-quartf~r mismatch in which the Suns outshot the Bucks 65 percent to 37 percent and outrebounded them 14­4, quickly quieting thC' crowd that half­filled the Bradley Center. 
The crowd, though, got nasty when the Bucks fell behind 50-24 with 5:41 left in the first half and boned them as tlrny left the court at halftime. 
It was the loudest jeers yet for the Bucks under first-year coach George Karl, who replaced Chris Ford and had the team 12-5 a week ago, primed to end their seven-year playoff drought. 
But neither Hill nor Brandon wanted to be here, so Karl gave his blessing to the trade that sent them both packing. 
"We didn't have the puzzle together with Tyrone and Terrell," Karl said before the game. "Now, we've got these other pieces and they're not even close" to playing together. 
Pieces is a good word for the Bucks right now, who have fallen apart with­out a true point guard, no rebounding and too much ad-libbing on offense. 
Ray Allen, who scored a season-high 29 against New York on Monday night, took just three shots in the first half and missed them all'. He finished with 10. 
Dell Curry led the Bucks with 18 points, followed by Tim Thomas, acquired from the Philadelphia 76ers last week, with 1 7. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid.
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe righr to edir all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Part time on-campus  Tri-level 3 bdrm house, 1-1/2 mi.  
NOTICES  promotional position. www.2Clix.com, a start up web-site  FOR RENT  from campus across from park with 1-1/2 baths, family room with fire­ TICKETS  "ATTENTION LESBIAN, GAY,  
for college students needs 6 on­ place, 2-car garage, fenced-in back  BISEXUAL AND QUESTIONING  
campus  yard. AC, stove, refrig, W/0, G/D &  NEED GRADUATION  STUDENTS •• Original student  
How Green is Green?  promoters to spread the word about  WALK TO SCHOOL  D/W. $995/mo. 683-5038 or 232­ TICKETS  group will hold IMPORTANT gener­ 
our site. 10-15 hours a week,flexi­ 2-6BEDROOM  4527  Call Kelly @ 243-8932  al meeting tomorrow 3/18. Call info  
Work in Ireland on a Student  ble,$8-$12/hr  STARTING $185  line for details 236-9661.  
Work Abroad Program and find out!  promotional experience  MONTH/PERSON  New 3-4 bdrom home for lease.  I need graduation tickets!  
helpful.Contact: Kevin Leavitl  232-2595  Fireplace, family room, 2-car  Cal! Kelly @243-8932  
Call 1-888-Council and ask for  1 ·877-2clixcom,e-mail to  garage, 2 full baths. All deluxe  Two more days to another fine  
Tom.  kleavitt@2c1ix.com.  appls. NC. $1200/mo. 232-4527 or 683-5038.  PERSONAL  Notre Dame weekend!  
j1osT & FOUND I SUMMER EMPLOYMENT: ART EDUCATION  NICE HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND 8,6,4,3,BEDROOM 2n3097  Staying for Summer? Clean. 2 bdrm Turtle Creek townhouse avail·  When you need copies ... We're OPEN!!'  Kelsey, there's the lady who stands there.  
ASSISTANT  able for sub-lease Please call  Power up, the decade is almost  
SNITE ART MUSEUM.Get  Colleen at 243-9232.  THE COPY SHOP  here.  
Lost:  1DO CDs that were in a black  teaching experience while  Lafortune Student Center  
CaseLogic carrying case. Lost in  making a difference in South  BED 'N BREAKFAST  516 BDRM HOMES. NEAR CAM­ 631-GOPY  Vote for Katie's installments, now  
La Fortune the night of 2/26/99.  Bend!Ass1st Education  REGISTRY  PUS. FURN. 272-6551  with wings.  
Monetary reward being offered if  Curator wrth summer youth  219-291-7153  Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight  
found.  No questions asked  art program focusing on  Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm  Need a lift? Wherever you're  
Please call Brian at 4·1126 w/ any info.  museum objects and art making.June 1-July 30, 15-20  House For Rent  FOR SALE  Sat: Noon-6:00pm Sun: Noon-Midnight  going, we have the answer you need. Call 4-5555 for details.  
hours per week.Fine Arts &educa­ 4-5 Bedroom  
tion ma1ors with exp  Close to Campus  NEW Rates Phone Cards  $6HAIRCUTS  The Observer has only the best of  
LOST: Gold Locket, Oval-if  teaching &/or workirig with  Includes: Dishwasher,  282 min. $20 call 258-4805  wises for all the athletes competing  
found: call Victoria, x4659  children preferred.INCLUDES  Washer/Dryer, Fridge, Stove.  Vito's Barbershop  tor the Irish in NAA Championships  
ROOM & BOARD June 20  Remodeling Kitchen in spring.  Steel bookcase. 7 shelves.  Cati  1523 Lincolnway West  this weekend, and the writers and  
July 30.  RENT REDUCED!  246-1668  Closed Sun. and Wed.  photo people covering them.  
WANTED  (6/20-7130,additional Work Study hours-if eligible-with  Call 289-4712  Beautiful brass bed,queen size.with  Mon,Tues,Thurs,Fri 8-4 Sat. 8-3  Win one for the Gipper.  
...  National Youth Sports  orthopedic mattress set and deluxe  Win one for yourselves, you  
Babysitter needed in my home.  Program,fortotal 40 hrs/wk if  SUMMER SUBLEASE  frame.New ,never used.st Ill in plas­ COUNTDOWN TO THE  deserve it.  
Flexible day time hours.Call 243­ desired)CALL ASAP for  1 bdrm Campus View apt  tic.$235  ,. LEWIS CRUSH ••  
5540.  application form 631-4435  Call Carrie @ 273-2989  219·862-2082  24 DAYS  Today, by the way, is St. Patrik's  
App. deadline April 6.  will YOU be invited?  Day.  

Wednesday, March 17, 1999 The Observer• PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 

-"" 
lit@ 


Student Snecial 

Order a large or medil-m pizza at our regular price, and get a second 
one-topping medium for only S4! 
273-9944 
: 7 Delivery or Carry-Out 


dN ANY SPA!
hDTEL Avoilahle to all students and Parents wit/, this coupon. .. {No ID Required) Exp. December 31, 1999 ® Valid Sunday • Thursday• not valid for Special Events 
L-----------------------J 

J.80 at Exit 17 • 52825 US 33N • South Btllld, IN • 271-9dOO I • Free Continental Breakfast 
• 
Free HBO, CNN, ESPN 

• 
Free local Call, Fax · 

• 
Kitchenettes .~()-\0,~~~""1, 1,1>'­


• .,.,,,~ 


272-9000 

page 16 The Observer. SPORTS Wednesday, March 17, 1999 
¦ NFL 
L.A. beats out Houston for league's 32nd team 
Associated Pres• 
PHOENIX 

Los Angeles rather than Houston will get the NFL's 32nd team, NFL owners decid­ed Tuesday. 
llowcver. the awarding of the franchise is contingent on Los Angeles getting a stadium. financing and community sup­port by Sept. 15. If not, Houston will get the team. 
That follows four years of 

• 
0)/lfoMcrts COLLEGE BASKETBALL 

UConn's long seasoµ certainly not sour 
lobbying by the two cities deserted by their respective teams during the franchise free agency boom of the mid­1990s. 
But il was hardly decisive. 
Most owners liked Houston's plan, which had a stadium and financing plus an owner, Bob McNair. who seemed accept­able to the league. 
Los Angeles, by contrast, has two competing groups, two stadium plans and less solid 



STORRS, Conn. 

It's been a long season for a team hobbled at times bv injuries and inexperience. · 
Coach Geno Auricmma's Connecticut Huskies may be coming of age just in time. 
The Huskies, top seed in the Mideast Regional. will settle in Cincinnati on Wednesday to pre­pare for Iowa State in the NCAA tournament round of 16. The team, ranked fourth in the nation. near!v didn't make it. Tlw lluskies survived a scare against Xavier on Sunday, S<'('tiring an 8(,-84 victory in the final sevPn seconds on two free throws by freshman Tamika Williams. 
Williams is one of two fresh­

man starters for Auriemma, 
who also goes with two sopho­
mores and a junior. Only senior 
Amy Duran has played in the 
Final Four, and so for most the 
tournament is new territory. He 
admits he has a lot to work 
with. 
"This team is more physically 

girted than any team we've ever 
had at their agp," Aurif'mma 
said af't,ff practice Tuesday. 
I le started the season with the 

nation's best recruiting class of 
forwards Williams, Swin Cash. 
Asjha Jones, and guards Sue 
Bird and Keirstcn Walters. 
Injuries, however. have whittled 
down the group. 
Bird was lost al midseaiwn 

with a torn knefl ligament, Cash 
missed several games with a 
stress fracture in her right leg 
and 011 Tuesday suffNed a mild 
concussion at practice. Walters 
started 14 games but has been Starters Jones and Williams are growing into a dominating pres­ence under Lhe boards, and Williams has had to work through back problems. 
Injuries weren't limited to the rookies. Junior guard Shea Ralph, who missed hr.r sopho­more season while rehabilitat­ing from a torn knee ligament, missed four games after she sprained the same knee. Duran broke her right hand and missed the final 10 games of the regular season. 
Auriemma said the challenge with a young team is turning a group of talented individuals into a team and getting them to believe il takes more than talent to win. 
"The frustration is getting them to listen. to pay attention," he said. 
The close call against Xavier 
got everyone's attention. 
··1t seems like when we've 
been in these situations before, 
we've kind of crumpled with 
flveryone kind of looking at each 
other," Ralph said. "We didn't 
do that this time." 
Williams said when she saw 
some of her teammates strug­
gling early in the game, "l knew 
I just had to step it up.'' 
There have been soine grow­
ing pains making the transition 
from high school, where 
Williams could usually breeze 
through the competition, to 
Connecticut's nationally ranked 
program. 
''You have to keep playing 
hard," she said. "If you cruise, 
you get exposfld hy players who 
may not have as much talent but 
are playing harder than you." 
financing. 
But in the end, it came down to the size of the television market -Los Angeles, with 
5.5 million TV homes. anrl Houston with 4 million. 
"Based on television con­tracts and similar factors, the league's first priority should be the re-establishment of a successful NFL franchise in the great Los Angeles market," the resolution said. 
Los Angeles was deserted by the Rams and the Hai<lers after the 1995 season, I.he Rams moving to St. Louis, the Raiders back to Oakland, from where they had moved in 1982. Houston lost tho Oilers to Tennessee after the 1996 season. 

"What's changed?" asked Al Davis, who has moved the Raiders north and south in California. "They couldn't get their act together in four years. Why should they be able lo do it in six months'?" 
In other action, the owners vokd to keep tho Thanksgiving Day games in Detroit and Dallas. turning down a motion by Kansas City and New Orleans to rotate tlrn ganrn. 
"The owners said we shouldn't tamper with a great tradition," said William Clay Ford .Jr. of the Lions, whosP team has hosted a gamn since 1934. 
Wednesday, March 17, 1999 The Observer• PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 

R~o/e>-ZZ4 
~~~-.-a--

StudentAward 
RecSports ''Champion Student Award" recipients are selected by the Office of Recreational Sports. Honorees are chosen for their involvement in RecSports, including excellence in sportsmanship, leadership and participation. 
She could not attend Student Activities Night, so her roommates, as a prank, signed her up for the Bowling Club. Three years later, Anne Deitch has distinguished herself with both her prowess on the lanes and her administrative work for the club. After serving as Secretary last year, Anne is now President. At the recent Ohio State Buckeye Classic, Anne averaged 209 for the tournament, with a 279 high game. After bowling on Notre Dame's first women1s team as a freshman, Anne has competed with the men the past two years. Next year she intend to head the women's team into competition. Balancing her bowling with her studies, Anne has a double major in Sociology and Anthropology. A native of Bloomington, MN, Anne currently resides in Cavanaugh Hall. 
Recipients receive <I:~ merchandise from the 
a•'I. 
VARSITY SHOP
-••. 
"Specializing in Authentic 
Notre Dame Sportswear" 
(Joyce Center) 
Rec:....,,,,,,,,---.---~~ 
www.nd.edu/-recsport 
~~-­
JI a,
VARSITY SHOP 
'l'I' 
"Specializing in Authentic Notre Dame Sportswear" 


Look for this award to appear in the Observer every other Wednesday. Students selected receive (I:~ 
l'T"t..~L.-:. ..._ • 'I. 
merchandise courtesy of \.&.--~..,,,.,--y-and the vTY with two locations in the Joyce Center. The vri?i; 
is open Monday-Saturday 9:00am to 5:00pm and Sunday 12:00pm to 4:00pm. (Phone: 631-8 560). 


page 18 
¦ MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Wood to miss season with elbow surgery 
Associated Press 
PEORIA. Ariz. Kerry Wood's 1999 season lasted all of 26 pitches. 
Baseball's brightest young pitcher. whose fastball dazzled fans during his rookie season. will undergo ligament replace­ment surgery on his right elbow within two weeks. Rehabilitation is expect.1d to take about one year. 
"Obviously it's a huge loss for us -the NL Rookie of the Year and a huge part of our rota­tion," Cubs general manager Ed Lynch said Wednesday after an MRI in Chicago revealed the injury. 
The 21-year-old right-hander has had a tender elbow since the Cubs drafted him out of high school in June 1995 and he missed all of last September while it was sore. 
Wood returned to throw five innings in the Cubs' final playoff game against Atlanta, then was hospitalized twice at the start of spring training because of an upper respiratory and gastroin­testinal illness. The latest injury occurred Saturday, on the first warmup pitch of the second inning of his 1999 debut against Anaheim. 
"We were very, very conserv­ativfl with Kerry," Lynch said. "Whether this was bound to happen, l can't answer." 
The Cubs clubhouse in Mesa was quiet after players learned the news on a cool and rainy morning. Wood not only is respected. he's one of the most well-liked players on the team. 
"Selfishly. he's so much fun to play behind, watching those ovorpowering fastballs." first baseman Mark Grace said. 
Wood intends to get a second opinion and allow swelling to subside before going ahead with surgery. Dr Lewis Yocum. the Anaheim Angels team physi­r.ian, or Dr. James Andrews most likely will perform a liga­ment replacement. a procedure considered radical when Dr. Prank Jobe used it to save Tommy John's career in 1974 but now is commonplace. 
"Thankfully we live in a day and age when they can put us 
NEED AJOB for the 1999-2000 academic year? 
Student Activities is now accepting applications for all areas: 
LaFortune Building Managers Stepan Center Managers Ballroom Monitors Office kisistants Set Up Crew Infomiation Desk Attendants Sound Technicians ND Express Shipping Attendants 

Applications available at 315 Lafortune. Deadline for applying is Thursday, April 1. For more information, call 631-7308. 
back together like an erector set," said Cubs pitcher Terry Mulholland, ensured a spot in the rotation because of the inJury. 
Wood, who struck out 20 against Houston on May 6, 1998. to lie Roger Clemens' record for a nine-inning game. was a big part of baseball's renaissance last season. He not only was a key to the Cubs' pen­nant hopes, but had become one of baseball's top attrac­tions. He was rewarded with a $690,000 salary -a record for a player with less than one year in the major leagues. 
Despite his promise, there was always the danger he would burn out too soon. such as Mark Fidrych and David Clyde. For now, the Cubs are pusitive Wood can rebound next year. 
"I feel for him," reliever Hod Beck said. "I think as a pitcher every one of us has laid in bed with an ache and a pain think­ing it's over." 
It was the latest blow to base­ball during a spring training that has seen Atlanta first base­man Andres Galarraga, New York Yankees manager Joe Torre and Florida infielder Mike Lowell diagnosed with cancer; Hall of Farner Joe DiMaggio die following lung cancer surgery; and Houston outfielder Moises Alou severely damage a knee. 
Galarraga and Alou are out for the season, and Torre is expected to miss 1-to-3 months. Lowell already has returned. 
"I think our players will take this as a challenge we will have to overcome, the same as Atlanta and Houston are doing," Cubs manager .Jim Riggleman said.. 
Following the retirement of Michael Jordan, Wood and Sammy Sosa were Chicago's biggest sports stars. It's hard to see the Cubs, the lovable losers who haven't won a pennant since 1945 and a World Series since 1908, getting back to the playoffs without Wood, even if Sosa has another 66-horner season. 
"We'll keep Sammy on the field -put a glass case around him," Beck said. 

The Observer• SPORTS Wednesday, March 17, 1999 
1999 ARTS & LETTERS DEPARTMENTAL FOLLOW-UP SESSIONS 
As a follow-up to the Majors & Programs Fair, the departments listed below are holding informational meetings for prospective majors. If you are thinking of majoring in one of these departments. please make every 
effort to attend. 
Thursday, March 18 
ENGLISH FILM, TELEVISION & THEATRE 
Monday, March 22 
CAPP ECONOMICS GOVERNMENT 
Tuesday, March 23 
PHIL/POLITICS/ECON (PPE) 
Wednesday, ~larch 24 
MEDIEVAL 


St. patrick's DaY 
~~. Party
Jf 
Wed., March 17 at Reeker's 8-10 pm 



Live Irish Music by Doc Brown 

:F..-ee Food! G-a..-.es an.c1_ Prizes! 
Sponsored by the Student Activities Office 

7-8:30 PM l 06 O'Shaugnessy 3-4PM 116 Washington Hall 
6-7PM 217 DeBartolo 6-7 PM 118 O'Shaughnessy 7-8 PM 126 DeBartolo 
7-8 PM l 18 O'Shaughnessy 
4-5 PM Allegro Cafe in Lafortune Center 
Wednesday, March 17, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 19 
¦ MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL ¦ COLLEGE BASEBALL 
Rockies, Bichette strike out andro Huskers strip Chicago 
Aswciated Press stance, too, but has since insisted any substance. ho quit taking it. "We advise against it as a med­
State with 50-3 victory
TUCSON. /\riz. Baseball has commissionl'd a ical team," Rockies head trainer 

/\sk thn Colorado Bockies' flarvard study to determine Tom Probst said Tuesday. "We're uwdical staff for il"i cipinion about whether androstencdion~ raises leery about any substance t.hat thll rnuscln-huilcling supplement testosterone levels. Further stud­hasn't had enough studies to imdrostencdionc, and Lhc answer ies might be necessary to deter­dctcnnine its long-term effects. is: Don't usn il. mine wheth0r andro helps build In 10 years we may find out that 
But tlrn Hockins' trainers arnn't muscle mass and whether it it's fine, or we may find out that snooping around lockers to /ind enhances performance. it's a cancer agent. But thero are out who is ingesting the contro­The substance is banned by the too many question marks right vcrsial substanr.11. Olympics, the NCAA, the NFL, now. 
Afl(lro bcwarne a hot topic last and tho men's and women's ten­"We're advising against it not snason wlwn Mark MrGwirc nis tours. BasPball, howevf'f, bC'cause WC' know so much about admittml using it during his 70-wants stronger proof before ii but because we don't know homer season. At lnast ono ai.,tr!ldng to a ban, and the play­anything about it We nrn:id solid Hockies playnr, Dante Bichc•tte, ers' association is philosophirally modical research on andro and acknowlcdgPd using llw sub-opposed lo random Lesting for creatine substances to determine if they have detrimental long­term effecl'l. But it's still a play­er's choice to take it or not take 
it... Asked how many Bockies play­ors are taking andro or crnatine, Probst .';aid, "To tell you thC' truth, I rnally have no idea. That's their business and I slay out of it. I don't walk around bning a detectivn to soc who's on it." 
Bichettc said he started taking anclro last. season but quit. "when all that nngativity came out with McGwire. H got a Int o(' bad pross, and I didn't want p,~ople to judge me by that. J\ndro is pro­ducPd in thP body naturally, so it's not a synthetic storoid. But a lot of people have taken it that way, like it is a steroid and is ille­gal. So I jusl decided not to do it." 
Another factor influenced Bichette to stop using andro. 
"To be honest, I don't think it helped me a bit," he said. "Creatine was the one that really worked l'or me. Rut I haven't taken ~mything, not even vita­mins, since last year." 
Bichctte defended McGwirc, saying, "It didn't help me that much, and I guarantee you Mark would say the same thing. fie was just trying it out because it was the lirst year it was avail­able. lfe's been hitting home runs forever." 
7t=3.14159265 
Double Slice Pizza=$1.99 
The ratio of the circumference of a Fazoil's pizza to its diameter is delicious. And getting one is as easy as pie. Just dine in, carry out or 


KRT 

Colorado slugger Dante Bichette, who has used the muscle-building supplement androstened,one, wltl follow suit with the Rockies' ban. 
Geometry 101: Ratios 
drive through for Double Slice or a whole pie. 

52770 US Roule 33N, 277-4!XJ8, South Bend 317 W. McKinley, 255-2551, Mishawaka 1248 Nappanee Street, 262-9873, Elkhart 
Associated Press 
It was a smashing fll'fort Tuesday for the Nebraska Cornhuskers, who set two NCAA scoring records and a record for total HBls in routing Chicago State 50-3 during the second game of' a doublehead­er. 
That's right. Fifty-to-three. 
"When people see it in the paper, they'll probably think it's a misprint," said Nebraska infielder Craig Moore. 
It was 23-0 after the third inning and 32-2 after tho fourth. The game, which had bef111 schedulHcl for nine innings, ended on the 12-run mercy rule after 6 1/2 innings. And this after tho IInskers won the seven-inning first ganrn 15-3. 
"You feel bad for the other team," Nebraska coach Dav,1 Van !lorn said. "You don't really know what to do. I mflan. you've got to send a guy up to Urn plate, and you can't really tell him to try· to make an out." 
The prnvious rocord for runs by a winning team was set by West Chester, Pa., which beat Philadelphia Textile 42-1 on 
April 7, 1994. • 
The lluskers (12-6) also established an NCAA rncord for winning margin -47 runs. Tho former record was shared by West Chester five years ago and Georgia Tech, which beat Earlham 41-0 on March 21. 1975. 
Nebraska's 48 HBls eclipsed the NCAA single-game record. West Chester had 37 RBIs in Lim 1994 game and Clemson also had 37 against North Carolina State on Apr.ii 6, 1979. 
Moore went 5-for-7 in the 

late game and his 10 HBls 
were a Nebraska school sin­
gle-game record. Ile said even 
from his Little League days, Im 
cou!dn't rcr.all a game so lop­
sided. 
"l'v1~ never, ever soon a 
sr.ore like this," Moore said. 
"I've never even drr111med 
about my team scoring this 
many runs. I didn't oven think 
we'd score 15 runs in the lirst 
gamr.." 
The lluskers pounded out their 50 nrns against f'ivn Chicago State pitchnrs. Nebraska's 35 hits wnre six short of the NCAA single-game record of' 41, sot by M1•111phis against Delta Statr1 on April 18, 1978. 
NonP of' Nebraska's innings set NCAA rncords f'or singln­inning scoring. The llusknrs had ninn runs in the first. IO in thn socond, four in thn third, nine in th11 fourth. I] in tlrn fif'th and f1vn in the sixth. 
Nebraska slugger Ken Harvey hit two homo runs in the first gamn and hit anotlrnr pair in the second. llis s1wen runs scorl'd in thn nightcap also set a single-game Nebraska record. 
"I kind of felt bad for them (Cougars) but within reason," Harvey said. "If I was on that tnam, I know how I would havn felt. But you'vn also got to remembnr wn havn a job to do, too." 
Tim lluskers were coming off a 10-day layoff. 
Chicago Stale (2-CJ), on tlrn other hand, played last wrrnk in a tournament at Miami, returned home over the w1iok­en d and flew Tunsday lo Omaha. The Cougars took tlrn l'ield shortly after their one­hour bus ricln to Linroln. 
Eight players hit ninn honw runs for Nebraska. But Van llorn said tlw llusknrs nnver stoic a bas,1 and ho d11nied trv­ing to run up the sr.orn. · 
"Wn had four f'r<'shmnn on the field at otrn linw," lrn said. "l startnd substituting in tlrn top of' thn third. I didn't start thnrn start,1rs hncausn I want­ed to give sonrn otlwr guys some work. 
"It's just that 1wnry limo we hit the ball, we found a hole and we hit a lot of tlrnm hard." Van llorn said. 

Northwestern University is lookmg for coll~gt: sophomores,juruors, and St"nao~ to work •• rnun,dors in the College ~reparaaun Prog_rJm, o1 summer program tor >eadcmically talented high school ~tudents, Coum.dors serve.-as writmg mstrucron, activity coordinator\ .:md residence hall advisor<. Applicants 111~,t be wailable to begm work on June 12, 1999. 
Qualified candidates should have: 
• 
a rec:ord ofacadcnuc :achicvc-ntent; 

• 
strong orJI ,mJ \\Titten communic;lt!on skills; 

• 
excellent imerper<onal skills (both an group and m onc..on-one s1tuanom.): 

• 
tutu:-mana~mcnt, leadership, and problem-,olving skiU.; and 

• 
a rangr of exrracurricular intttre~ts, 


Mim,rity applira,Hs arr 1•nfCllfrqerd w apply. 
Ifyou wdcom< the challenge of guiding high school students through a summer ofcollege learning •nd fun, pkase cont>cc 
u;, 
1-800-FINDS-NU e-mail cpp@nwu.edu 

Colombia 
:t([:\ 

,. -.t:;...::·;~~/..;>;/i-t/:~-);.=.••• :(1tiftit('.:fii.ffiii! ·~it..... 
We are accepting contributions for relief of the multitudes of earthquake victims. Items listed are desperately needed. 
*NO GLASS CONTAINERS CAN BE SHIPPED 
·:~:~~?'"" 

Non-perishable Food and Water 
l.l.~dpilcal wh~aldther c&lotbhinb.~rc:::.::wr•+t;;(:?.·:,,

Water-Drinking, distilled Water .ra{? • • u tsI c 1 ren a 1es ·w@l:
I .::t•··:·:······ 
Purifying Tablets Jl!i~isposable or cloth diapers ·· 
m~:~fi~:~(.. ·
Easy-open canned food 
;::~:::::::
Milk-powdered, UHT, canned Baby food and formula ,l':::::::::l~I;_::;:: Shelter/Equipment 
<@Ii· Flashlights with batteri. ···. •· .?tr p1tents, plastic sheet First Aid/Toiletries ;:~we;;: "••·•,c t & bl k t ....
;'.... ·.\ii· es an es> Anti-decongestants .<mt::r:• •. ••••+:it, ··•w:::rfowels 
~Yi:rr;~~~;;1~~& ,J~9n#~~; 
Disinfectants .,.·,,;f..,/ · · 
..... . Pots and pans ·• .·
i: :. 
Antibacterials & Anti-···· Portable stov .. :: Toiletries Detergents, Chl ,./t:_;:C;:;-::::1'1':I~,~~h Toothpaste & brush •· ...... 

Bug spray (malariaJ··· Powders, lotions, creams Cotton balls Baby powder Disposable syringes Face masks, goggles 
Donations of l\foney are Most Welcome 
Checks may be made out to the Center for Social Concerns­indicate Colombian Earthquake Relief-mailed or delivered to CSC, University of ND, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Last Day for Collection is Saturday, March 20, 1999 

Drop-off Sites can be found throughout campus in dorms, dining halls during dinner & supper, etc. 
THANK YOU! 

Wednesday, March 17, 1999 The Observer. SPORTS page 21 
¦ NFL 
DeBartolo banned another yea~ 
Assodaccd l're•s 
l'llOENIX 

Thn 491\rS losl co-owner 1-:ddio DoBartolo for at least another year and San Francisco's hold on llrn 2003 Su1mr Bowl also appPars to he slipping. 
D1d!nrlolo. who withdrew from activn ownership or the wam because or legal prob­lems. was fined $1 million and his banishment was nxlcnded through thn 199') season. 
Commissioner Paul Tagliabuu on Tu11sday citnd conducl dntrinrnnlal lo tlrn NFL in imposing the sanctions on l>eBartolo, who pledged lo ahidn by tlw leagun's aclions. 
Tho lcaguc's action leavos tlw 4<Jnrs umkr the control of' DnBartolo's sister. IJnnise 1)1\Bartolo York, and hor hus­band. John York. 
Tagliabun said DeBartolo could Im reinstated a year from now hut alsn coulrl bf' firrncl an additional $4 million line if' he violatr,s terms of his agn,1•11wnt with tlw lcagun. 
"Eddie's a friend of' mine," Dnuver Broncos ow1wr Palrick Bowlen said. 'Tm sorrv for his difficulties. I look forward to having him back us an owner in tlw ll\agtw." 
t\foanwhilc. with plans l'or tlw 4t)prs · new stadium stallml. tlw NFl. appearnd ready to tak,, tlw :w,n Supnr Bowl away f'rorn San Francisco. TagliabuP said tlw issue would lw La kPn up lalPr this week. 
;\ final decision hasn't bnnn madP. hut sourc1!S attending Llw NFI. owners mnetings said Ttwsday the lack of progress toward building a rnplacement for aging ]Com Park forced the lt\ill{IIP to look Plsewhnre to 
stage the championship game. Bowlen said San Prancisco's hold on the game was tenuous. 
"We want to play a Super Bowl thcro but we're not going to do it until we get a new sta­rlium," he said. 
San Diego and Phoenix wcrn among the cities mentioned as an alternate host for thr lcagun's marquee event should the NFL yank the game out of San Francisco. 
San Francisco's right to be host of the Super l3owl was contingent on construction of the stadium. Soaring cost esti­mates and months of tumult within the 49ers' inner circle left th11 project in limbo. 
York, a srnior vice presiclrnl of' the family-run Edward .J. DcBartolo Corp.. who also has joined tho 49ers' front office, said the team still hopes to build a stadium But he con­ceded tlrn project might not get on Lrack in time to rescue the Supnr Bowl for San Francisco. 
'Tvn been told if we pick it up we can still get ready, but you've got to rrcognize that this is going to be one of the more expensive, if not the most nxpensive, stadiums built," York said. "It is more important to make the right decisions and do the right thing for both the 49ers and the city than it is to start tomorrow. 
"I think the important thing is we'rn committed lo a stadi­um. but I can't put a timetable on H." 
It would be thP second time tho NFL took the Super Bowl away from San Francisco. The city was supposed to have the 1999 championship. but approval by l«rnguc owners was conting•inl upon an osti­mated $26 million in renova­tions to 3Com Park. 
Instead of pumping the ­money into upgrades, howev­er, the 49ers pushed for a new stadium, and in June 19fJ7 vot­ers approved a $525 million measure for a new stadium and shopping mall next to 3Com Park. 
With the imposition of formal sanctions, DeUarlolo was fur­1her isolated from the tealll he ran for 20 years. 
He withdrew as active owner in December 1997 after becoming entangled in a Louisiana gambling fraud case, and his attempts lo regain con­trol of the team have been rebuffed amid a growing rift with his sister. 
York said the two siblings ctt one time were close to an agreement that would have returnPd control of the team to DeBartolo, but that deal now appears dead. 
"Right now, D!mise has the reins and she's committed to keeping the team and running it," York said. "For the good of both parties. both Eddie and Denise need to have a resolu­tion, bncause their business interests are different and they go along different paths. So it's going to be best for the two of them to be separated, busi­ness-wise.'' 
DeBartolo pleaded guilty last October to failing to report a felony and was fined $2 million and placed on probation. DeBartolo also agrned to testi­f'y against his friend and f'or­mer Lnuisiania Gov. Edwin Edwards and others charged in an alleged inriucnce-ped­dling scheme involving the awarding of' a riverboat gam­bling license. 

Recycle The Observer. 

Student Government and Class of 2001 present: 

St. Patrick's Day Celebration '99 Free kareoke@ Stonehenge 1:30 -5:00 best performances win t-shirts! All dorms encouraged to send a group -Irish dancing in late afternoon 
Free giveaways on South Quad 12 -3 PM Shamrock stickers, buttons, tattoos, tye-dying, food, etc... in front of O'Shag 


Also, get your Irish Love Connection results for just 1$ 

¦ NCAA 

Court rules against 
test score requirement • 
PHILADELPIIlA 
The NCM has entered the "great unknown·• after a judge refused to grant it more time to devise freshman eligibility guidelines. 
NCM president Cedric W. Dempsey said the. organization ls. rtoWin awa.it~and-see mode after U.S. District Court Judge Ronald Buckwalter declined to issue a stay on Tuesday. A stay could have delayed enforce­ment of Buckwalter's court order striking down P~oposition J6, which mandat­ed that freshmen attain a mim­imum standardized test score to play in Dlvisi<m·I. 
The NCAA said that without more time to develop new requirements, there would bo chaos among the 302 Division I schools, which would suddenly be without a critical recruiting guideliM. 
"The NCAA's concern contin• ues to be the welfare and pro• tection of student-athletes and the effect this ruling has on the preparedness of freshmen for academics and athletics as they enter Division I institu­tions," Dempsey said. "With the court's denial of our request for a stay, our mem­bership is left with many unknowns about how to address eligibility standards." 
Dempsey also said the ruling could affect teams participat­ing in the current men's and women's basketball tourna­ments. The NCAA now plans to seek a stay from the 3rd Circuit of the U.S. Court of Appeals; it also plans to appeal the original ruling. 
In an eight-page opinion, Buckwalter wrote he did not believe the NCAA would suffer irreparable harm. 
"After almost 100 years of administering intercollegiate athletics, the establishment of' any prospective initial eligibili­ty rule and the policing of its own members is a task the 

NCAA is mt.ire than well­
equipped to handle," 
Buckwalter wrote. "By con­
trast, tht) munod plaintiffs and 
other simllarly situated stu­
dent-athletes would incur sub­
stantial Injury should a stay be 
issued." 
Lawyers for the four black 
athletes who filed the suit said 
the NCAA should ·-adopt a 
nondiscriminatory eligibility 
policy rather than fighting the 
court's decision. . "What the NCAA is doing is 
trying to protect. them from 
themselves," snid Andre 
Dennis, lead lawyer for the 
plaintiffs. "lt's time for the 
NCM to develop a nondiscrim­
inatory policy." 
The plaintiffs in the case 
have since graduated or are no 
longer freshmen in college. 
They claimed they were cloni«'d 
NCAA scholarships or sports 
eligibility because they did nol 
moot the minimum test score. 
Under Proposition 16, the 
association required freshmen 
athletes to have a high school 
diploma and a minimum 
grade-point average in 13 core 
academic courses with thH 
GPA contingent on an indexed. 
sliding scale with a student's 
score on eit.h,~r the Scholastic 
Assessment Test or American 
College Test. 
However, students scoring 
less than 820 on the SAT. or 
16 on the ACT, could not par­
ticipate, regardless of th,iir 
other acadtmiic crodentials. 
Buckwalter's ruling on 
Proposition 16 only struck 
down using sueh tests as mini­
mum requirements, but did 
not outlaw altogether the use 
of standardized tests. which 
many educators have long said 
arc racially and culturally dis­
criminatory. Its forerunnPr. 
Proposition 48, resulted from 
a tumultuous NCAA conven­
tion in '1 983 when a group of 
rnl'orm-mindecl school presi­
dcnts began pushing for 
toughened academic require­
ments. 
1 0 r-.: ­DUQUESNE DNIVERSirS, 
s s. i'o.n s 
Courses, Work~hops, Seminars, Study Abroad 
Transferable Credits 


Start Dates: May through July 
Register by fax, phone, mail or in person 
Call 1.800.283.3853 for our complete Summer 1999 Information/Application Package 

..,, 

PITTSBURGH, PA 15282 
www.duq.edu 
page 22 The Observer• SPORTS Wednesday, March I 7, I 999 

the most predictable, as No. 1 In the championship game, St. Auburn will face No. 4 Ohio John's will upset Duke. Duke
Final Four 

State and No. 2 Maryland will has only one loss this year and
Irish beat the 'Canes continued from page 24 play No. 3 SL .John's. This pre­that loss was to Cincinnati, who dictability, however. will end beat them because they play few games I guessed correctly. with the next two games. No. 4 dirty -er. hard-nosed -bas­No. 6 Plorida advanced to play Ohio State will upset No. 1 ketball. Tho Red Storm plays
in spring break play 
No. 10 Gonzaga -from a Auburn and No. 3 St. John's will this same brand of basketball 
Special to The Ob,erver 
The 26th-ranked Notre Dame men·s u~nnis team. playing in their first outdoor match of the year. won the doubles point and won four of the singles to beat 43rd-ranked Miami 5-2 in front of a boisterous Hurricane home rrowd. 
Freshman Javier Taborga played in his first career dual singles match and won 7-5, 6-4 over .Juel Berman at Nu. 6 sin­gl Ps. lie also ti>amecl with freshman Aaron Talarico to clinch the doubles point with an 8-6 win over Lieberman and Lindqvisl. 
Tim Irish improvo to l 0-4 with their sixth straight win. The l!urricanPs fall to 6-4. 
Junior All-An11•riran Hyun Sachirc, the second-ranked singles player in the country. beat Miami's Jamin Thompson (1-3, 6-3 at No. 1 singles and tPamPd with senior llrian Patterson to beat Tarik El 
Hockey 
continued from page 24 
man .John Schmidt as second­team all-CCHA selections. 
Notre Dame had two previ­ous seasons with three all-con­ference performers. Junior winger Eddie Bumbacco was named first team all-WCHA in 1972-73 while junior winger Ian Williams and junior defenseman Bill Nyrop were second team all-WCHA in '72­Bassouni and Halph I-lilt 8-2 at No. 1 doubles. Sophomore Matt Daly clinched the win for Notre Dame with a 6-4. 6-2 win over Mark Arrowsmith at No. 3 sin­gles. Senior Brian Patterson rallied to beat Johan Lindqvist 6-7 (8). 6-1, 6-1 at No. 2 sin­gles. 
Miami's Jose Lieberman and Arpad Odry won at Nos. 4 and 5 singles for the llurricanes' two point. The contest was a rematch of Urn last three Rig East championship title match­es. won by Miami in 1997 and 1998 and by Notn-1 Dame in 1996. 
The Irish played the match without the services of No. 4 singles player freshman Andrew Laflin. who sat out with an injury and has an 11-0 record in 1999. 
Notre Dame returns to the court on Thursday when the Irish complete at the Blue-Gray National Classic in l\tontgorncry, /\la. 
'73. r;our years later, sopho­more defenseman Jark Brownschidlo and senior cen­ter Bl'ian Walsh were named first team all-WCHA while junior goaltender John Peterson was named second team all-WCHA in '76-'77. 
Other previous Irish all-con­ference selections during the program's 19 years in the CCHA or WCI [A include junior winger Ray DeLorenzi {'73-'74, 2nd team WCI-IA) and Brownschidle ('75-'76, 1st team WCHA). 

Anyone interested id:wot~iQ,Q 
i Observer's Syste 'e~'arf should contact MH{e at 4--2276. 

·• 
..., 
bracket that I could not have predicted any worse. Iowa will challenge UConn. but the Huskies will hold ofT the Ilawkcycs. 
Florida-Gonzaga is a dilfir.ult pick, but Billy Donovan's squad's play is reminiscent of the Providence ii>am he pfayrd on for Hick Pitino in the late 1980s. Florida will give UConn a run f'or their monev, but the Huskies have two players -Rip Hamilton and KJialid el-Amin ­that can take over any game and will lead them to victory. 
The South bracket has been defeat Maryland in a great game. St. John's will then defeat Ohio State. 
In the Final Four, St. John's will upset UConn. The lluskies have a lot of talent, but St. John's has been playing better than anyone this side of Duke. St. John's plays better as the game goes on and appropriately enough, has been playing better as the season continues. Duke will get by Michigan State, but it will not be IJy the same dispro­portionatn amount that they will have defeat1:d Southwest Missouri State or Temple. 

and is the only team in the tour­nament capable of defeating the Blue Dovils. 
Duke defoatrd St. John's earli­er in the season al St. .John's. That loss was a close game and it forced Duke not only to play its best to survive, but also to rpspcct the Hed Storm. 
I believe that St. John's has less taltmt, less fame and less rrcdibility, but they have morn cohesion and heart. I like tlw Hnd Storm to blow tho Blue Devils away, but what do I know anyway? I had Stanford winning the tournament. 
Judicial Council 
Applications Available For '99-'00 Positions 
Vice President of Advocacy 
AND 

Vice President of Elections 
Beginning March 4, 1999 Student Government Office Applications Due March 17 Interviews Start March 16 
Questions? 

Call Kelly Folks, President or Nicole Borda1 Vice President of Elections at 631-4556 
brought 


~ ........A;~-y~~-·;~t;;~;t~d-i¦;; •••••••• ~ 
¦ ¦ • • 
• 

¦ ¦ representing campus • 
¦ 

¦ •• ¦ 
¦ ¦ ¦ 

¦ recreation users? • 
~ Now Forming . . . . . . . . . . 
¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ 
• 
¦ 
• 
•¦ 
•
•
•
• 
¦ 
• 
¦ 
• 

¦ • 
¦ • 
¦ Applications and additional information 
¦ •• 
• ¦ are available at the RecSports Office, •• • ¦• • Rolfs Sports Recreation Center . •• 
• 

• Application Deadline • April 1, 1999 
•¦ 

•• www.nd.edu/""recsport : 



Wc:dne~day, Mar-:h 17, 1999 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
SLURRED SPEECH DAN SULLIVAN 
IIArFY sr. "!~1Y15_ 'A :r f)otJ'I cA'Rl. ------=-----~ ---'PAY rf 15, i,F: v-JftasE 
!!E::1:E 


BILL AMEND

FOXTROT 
~ CLASS, ]UST oNE "t'E.&.R n, LlkE DANG. 1 CAN'T 8ELtE\IE "fou To PA'Y ATTENT10N To ME I :JuST WoRE 80R1NG / ON ST. PATRIC.K'S DAY. GREEN SOCkS. 

DILBERT 

I'M 'TP-.ANSFERRING 
'i'OU TO THE 5ALES 
LJ..:silllllil~--..Li.==L_J ~ ..............,.......____._....,.;a.;:,,.......iu 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 27 Small change for 
a Brit 1 Nabisco cracker 
32 Unimagined 5 Respond to 
35 Broadcast 

seeing red? 
studio sign 9 Central highway 36 Any hit by Elvis 14 Brainstorm 38 Hubbub 
39 Artificial locks 40 Summon the 15 Not taped 

16 Former 
elected? 11Summon 
42 Hit on theWarsaw knucklescitizens? 

43 Sorbonne 

19 Hint of color summer 
20 Opposite of 44 Bottle capacity masc. 
45 Common nest 21 F.B.t. workers locale 
47 Fine point them 49 Under pressure 23 The l's have 
24 Mileage testing 51 ~-Nile grp. 53 Opponent of D.D.E.
25 Undercover operation 54 Songstress Vikki 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
E N T E R ~~:..+;c.. A M E L O R R E ~.:.-1,=+;;;.. M A M B E I N M P 
A L 

11 Summon Michael Jordan and John Stockton? 

neck 0 V 9 To the point T E 10 The East 
12 Take-out words ~~~~N-1 13Wargod T E A .;:..i~~.;;.. T M E 1aOffice fastener 
E A R ..:.:..i...:...L:~ 0 P E 22 Gravy spot 
Make checks payable to: 
The Observer 
and mail to: 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
56 Dressed, so to speak 59Trendy 62 Talk a blue streak 64Summon actress Sharon? 66 --football (indoor sport) 67 Cartoonist Peter 
68 "A Clockwork Orange" hooligan 
69 Cattail's locale 70 Made a bubble, in away 11 Creme de la creme 
DOWN 
1 Jazz phrase 2 Goofing off 3 Broncos or 
Chargers 4 Veer suddenly 5 Campaign ad 
feature 6 Scrabble piece 7 Broiling locale 
aPains in the 
Puzzle by Nancy Salomon 
24 Prefix with 41 Was bedbound 57 Baseball's Yastrzemski
center 46 Snaky letter 2&Glaciers 58 German article 
48 Chefs' wear 27 Like illegally so Was almost out 59 Links target parked cars, of inventory so Washington bills sometimes 
52 Get-well site 61 Student's book 28 Get together 
54 Study late 63 "No dice" 29Summon a 
55Ambiance 65 Bill 
cable magnate? 30 Derby prospect 
31 French_ fashion Answers to any three clues in this puzzle magazines are available by touch-tone phone: 33 "Waste not. want 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
not," e.g. Annual subscriptions are available for the 34 Ran best of Sunday crosswords from the last 37 Malicious gossip 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 

Name ________________________ Address ___________________ City ________State ____ Zip______ 
YOUR HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Stl•ve McQuL•en, Kelly LeBrock, I, '> Macki,•, Patti Labelle, David ",11n1ki, L,•,• O,kar, Vine<' Jones, Rnlwrt Carradinl" 
Happy Birthday: Don'I be too hard ,u, yourself if )'OU have taken on tu,, much. ll,1ck up, sci yc>ur priorities straight, and ewrything will fall into place. You will have to no-evaluate your position and your desires. Make· sure your goals are realistic anJ you have made your plans carefully. If you an! too quick to make your move, you may tall short of your goals. Your numbers: 3, 5, 17, 26, 32, 49 
AR !ES (March 21-April 191: Get domestic responsibilities under con­trol before your mate decides to explod~. You may find yourself a little upset if you think you arc gl'tling the brunt of everyone's pmblems. 00 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Your ability to find solutions to problems will be admired and appreciated. You will meet exciting new lovers through work. Make sure they aren't involved with someone else. 0000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will blow situations out of proportion at work. This could <>asily reflect on your ability to move into more resronsible positions. You must con­tro your emotions if you wish to get ahc•aJ. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): It will be difficult to control your feelings when dl'aling with family member,. You will confuse them, making mat• ters worse. Try to think things through before taking action. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Problems may occur with your financial instilu• tion or a government agency. Don't sign important papers until later in the week. You will not get the response you want. 000 

Birthday Babv: You are a thinker, but you can be set in your ways: stubborn at times, but d<'votcd and reliable above all else. You dislike weakness. and you are adamant when it comes to reaching your goals. You have relentless courage and strong willpower.. . 
The Observer Sports Staff is hiring for paid positions. Call 1-4543 if interested. 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EUGENIA LAST 

VIRGO (Aug. 23,Sept. 221: Your greater intl•resl 111 children may lead you back to sch,,ol Pick up courses that will ~1,able you to wor~ with youngst<'fs Y,,u should loo!.. into starting your nwn da)'-carc ct.~nter. 
0000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Ther<· will bl' a lack of harmony in your homl' if you kt \'our partner walk all over )'U\I. Your iecling of being takL•n for a ride will grow, adding anxiety to an already frustrating situation 00 
SCORl'IO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): This will be a fabulous day if youflan your activities carefully. Spcn lhc day with your lover or your whole lamily. Do th1n~s thal will be not only entertaining. but informative as well. 
00000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 2U: Unexpected 1·isitors will be a wel• come sight. Spend time helping sume­one who can no longer manage a!on<'. Don't start new projects. It is best just to enjoy the company of others. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will be demanding today. Don't contuse or take your partner for granted. Make sure you keep your word regarding the tasks your lover has asked you to do. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Someone you work with will have difficulty doing the jub due to emo• tional instability. Come to the rescue and you will be rewarded. Your unselfish acts will bring populanty. 
000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You can work on those bad habits. It's time to gel started. You ran make impnwcmcnts and raise your self• esteem. Potential lovers will be inter­ested in you 1/ you are happy with yourself. 00000 
'1lt • 
-
-
1 
-I 
I 
E 
8 
0
.. 
@ 
E" 
j ., 
'O 
E 
0 
0 
t: 
a, 
.c 'C 
~ 
\ 
SCOTT ADAMS 
THEN l,J( CAN WOULDN'T IT ~E 
MAK( U5ELESS BETTER TO MA'KE PR.OOUCTS AND GOOD PRODUCTS? 
eL t-.1"'\E '<OU t'OR OUR LOW 5~l£5. 



¦ Courts ruled against 

¦ Dante Bichette and 
a minimum standard­

the Rockies put a ban 
ized test score for fresh­

on the muscle-building 
me"n student athletes. 

supplement androstcn­
PORTS 
dione. 
p.21 
p. 19 
THE 

Wednesday, March 17, 1999-----------------OBSERVER 


¦ HOCKEY 
Five players cap season with CCHA honors 
Special to The Observer 
Hw \otrr Dame hockey players have rPCl'i\ed \'otes for the all-Centrttl 
-
Collegiate Hockey Association team. 
Senior defenseman Benoit Cotnoir earned a spot on the six-player, first-team all-CCHA squad while junior center Ben 


Alternate captain Benoit Cotnoir led Notre Dame with a spot on the first-team all-CCHA squad. 
¦ WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
Gannon plays to hand Notre Dame first loss 
Observer Staff Report 
-
The Notre Dame women's lacrosse team travels·to Erie, Pa., today to take on Gannon University at Family First Sports Park. 
The Irish are off to a 2-0 
start this season after their most recent spring break 
win. 
Last Thursday, Notre Dame prevailed in a 14-13 overtime thriller over Richmond. Though sophomore Lael O'Shaughnessy led the scor­ing with five goals, freshman Alissa Moser lifted the Irish to victory when she scored in the second overtime period. Courtney CalabrPse added three goals and an assist, and the Irish combined for 39 shots for lhe game. 
Sophomore goalie Carrie Marshall made 11 saves in net for the Irish.
-O'Shaughnessy has been the key f'or Notre Dame's high-powered offense. She also had a five-goal perfor­mance in the 13-9 win over Boston College earlier this season. Senior captain Kerry 
Callahan had five assists in that game. 
Gannon will look to slow Notre Dame's quick attack. The Golden Knights are ranked No. 2 in the country by the IWLCA, representing Division II. Thev finished the 1998 season 13-2 and were ranked second in the nation for Division IJ: 
The 1998 ECAC champions return four All-Americans with Debra Wood, Stacey Reynolds, Sandy Covic and Kristen Hayhurst. 
Gannon was victorious over Longwood College 15-6, its only game this season. Heynolds led the way for Gannon with seven goals and one assist. 
Last year's attack player of the year, 'Noud had four goals and four assists while Covic scored twice. Jessica Lee and Molly Flynn each added a goal. 
Covic and Division I trans­fer Sara Brown led the way on defense for the Knights. Goalie Megan Hallock stopped six shots in the victo­ry. 

Simon is one of six players named to the second team all-CCHA. 
Irish senior right wing Brian Urick was among the vote-getters, earning honor­able mention all-CCHA. while senior left wing Aniket Dhadphale and senior goal­tender Forrest Karr received "special mention" all-CCHA honors. 
Five CCllA teams placed players on tho all-conference lirst or second team, led by three each from Michigan State, Ohio State and Bowling Green, plus two from Notre Uarne and one from Northern Michigan. Simon is on!) of nine players from tlrn all-CCHA first or second team who is eligible to return for the 1999-2000 season. 
Thirty-one players received votes for all­CCHA, with the most vote-getters coming from MSU (six) and Notre Dame (live), fol­lowed by four from OSU, three each From BG, NMU and Michigan, two each from Ferris State, f\1iami and Western Michigan, and one from Alaska Fairbanks. 
Cotnoir, who joined Michigan State junior Mike Weaver as the CCHA's first­team clefcnsemen, is the first Irish player to earn first team all-CCIIA honors during Notre Dame's eight combined seasons as a member of the CCHA (1981-83, 1992-pre­sent). He is Notre Dame's first all-confer­ence performer since senior forward Kirt Bjork earned second-team all-CCllA in 1982-83. 
Cotnoir is the first Notre Dame player to earn first-team all-conferencH honors since 1979-80, when senior right wing Greg Meredith was named first-team all­Western Collegiate Hockey Association. 
Simon and Cotnoir give the Notre Dame hockey program its first pair of all-confer­ence performers since 1981-82, when senior center and current Irish head coach Dave Poulin joined senior defcns!i­
see HOCKEY I page 22 

Date  Opponent.  
March 17  at Gannon  
March 23  at Syracuse  
March 26  OHIO STATE  
March 28  CONNECTICUT  
April  3  at Villanova  
April  5  at Pennsylvania  
April  9  DAVIDSON  
April  11  DENVER  
April  13  at Vanderbilt  
April  16  DUKE  
April  18  YALE  
April  23  at Harvard  
April  24  vs. Columbia  

Site 
Erie, Pa. Syracuse, N.Y. Moose Krause Stadium Moose krause Stadium Villanova,PA Philadelphia, Pa Mosse Krause Stadium Moose Krause Stadium Nas~ville, Tenn Mosse Krause Stadium Moose Krause Stadium Cambridge, Mass Cambridge, Mass 
¦ WAY Our IN LETT FtELD A second chance at the Final Four  
By JOHN COPPOLEUA Sports Columnist  
Can I start over'? My NCAA men's college basketball brackets aro so run-down and splattered with red that they look like a squirrel that didn't make it across Grape Road. I had Wisconsin, Miami (Florida), Washington, Arkansas and Oklahoma State in the Sweet 16, UCLA and Cincinnati in the Elite Eight. and ­this one really hurts ­Stanford winning the whole tourna­ment. What happened? March Madness: the most exciting tournament in any sport where any team can defeat any other on any given day. Yes, I lost a lot of money­er, credibility-with Stanford's loss, but part of me was rooting for Gonzaga. It's the same part of me that was ecstatic when Weber Stat() upended North Carolina, Miami (Ohio) shocked Utah and Southwest Missouri State beat both Wisconsin and Tennessee. However, a Cinderella team is only cute as long as it remains in the tournament, and sadly for most of the teams remaining, this promises to be only a fleeting moment. A couple of these teams have a chance to advance, but it will not be an easy road. The East bracket is where the most upsets have occurred as the teams remaining are No. 1 Duke and No. 12 Southwest Missouri State along with No. 6 Temple and No. 10 Purdue. At least at this point, Duke is unstoppable. It will defeat Southwest Missouri State before its takes out Temple, who will defeat Purdue. The Midwest bracket is close to being as surprising as the East. No. 1 Michigan State faces No. 13 Oklahoma and No. 3 Kentucky faces No. 10 Miami (Ohio). Michigan State should defeat Oklahoma with its depth and defense. Kentucky is too deep, even for talent like Wally Sczerbiak, and will defeat Miami (Ohio). • This vvill set up the bestgame ofthe Elite Eight as Michigan State will barely hold off Kentucky in a game that should go down to the wire. The. West bracket, wiµt the · exception of the Stanford · : debacle,•has been relatively predictable. No.) Connecticut. has cruised, and No. Sfowa defeated a pesky No. 4 1 Arkaµs3$ team,Jn one of the >see FINAL FOUR /page 22  

.. ' 
· 

at Gannon • Women's Swimming at Blue-Gray Classic 'Y Today,,3 p.m. NCM Championships Montgomery, Ala. 
SPORTS 

Thursday -Saturday Thursday -Sunday.
ATA 
'9 
Fencingat Loyola (Md.) vs. Iowa• NCAA Championships 

Saturday, noon Saturday, 11 a.m.
GLANCE Thursday• Sunday 

_J 



