Deatl. Sentence
BIG EA.IT CH4J4PIOMIHIP 
Friday 

¦ A jury sent white supremacist John William King to
¦ Senior Sheila McMillen will lead the Irish to 
FRIDAY 26,
death row Thursday.

the Big East tournament this 
weekend in New Jersey. See Insert 
World & Nation • 5 
1999 

THE 




The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 98 WWW. ND.EDU/-OBSERVER 

f( f 1.,.,, 1t. ,,,flli,,. ,,tl1t.>f 
1 Yearly operating budget exceeds $1 million a day 
By CHRISTINE KRALY Assistant News Ediror 
What could someone do with a million dollars a day? 
Most people vvould consider this scenario a dream, a fan­tasy only to toy with in one's mind. 
The UniVf~rsity. however, has to essentially answer this same Publisher's Clearing llouse-type question every year vdwn deciding on thei annual budget. It currently boasts a yearly op•~rating bud­
I 
gi~t in PXCCSS of $400 million. To thosP with jaw-dropping gapes. John Sejdinaj. director of FinancP and Budgeting, savs this Pxorbitanl amount is 
no.rmal. "[The budgot is.I always gonna go up bocause of nor­
mal growth fand because! the campus is expanding," SPjdinaj said. 
If money grows on trees ... -1 If morn•y did grow on trees. 

1 Notre Dame would be a veri-increased from the 1994 rate
L~:.b.':!:,rest .~:h ~ ranc_h_:__ 

reaching from alumni donations to tuition increases. It is probably no surprise to Notre Dame par­ents that the bulk of the budget comes from tuition. 
According to the University's annual bud­get report, revenue from the $19,800 undergradu­atP tuition provided 
51.2 percent of the total educational and general expenses of the University. 
Although tuition has 
o_f_$_1_5_._s_i_o_b_y_n_e_ar_l_y_$_4_._o_o_o_.-b-e_r_or_e_,._,__ --·,,_. 
¦ STUDENT UNION 

Student leaders emerge from election 
By TIM LOGAN 
Associarr Ne\\'\ Ediror 
Studr.nts elt'cted a now round of campus loaders Thursday in class and off-campus president primary elections that foaturnd six freshman class tickets. t,vo racps so close tlw votes had to be recounted and results that forced a rematch in elnction for off-campus senator. 
Final winners enwrgod from two ol' tlw fiv<' declions held Thursday -Class ot' 2001 officers and off­cam pus JH<' sid en ts . A r u n -off Monday lwtvveen the top two tickNs ,viii dPcidl) tlw remaining three races. Candidates must receive morn than half the votes cast in ord•1r to win outright. 
.John Micek topped the ticket that received 57.9 percent of the vote in the Class of 2001 race. In the two­tick1~t racti, lw defeated the group led by Todd Callais. Going into the night. MicPk \\·as unsur(~ of how the rnsults would wind up. 
"Nobody had any idea how it was going to turn out in the end," said president•elect John Micek. "We wen• biting our nails." 
Micek and his running mates ­vice-presidont Suzamrn Lohmeyer, secretary Hachl'I Gernerd and trea­surnr Ed Hyan -plan to focus on improving career and placement servicPs and internship opportuni­ties for juniors. 
In the otlH~r race decided 

Thursday, Dave Leeney and Hick Saxcn defeated Vinod and Biju Kurian for off-campus co-president. The Leeney/Saxen ticket received S3.2 percent of the vote, while Kurian/Kurian gained 40.3 percent. There wern onlv 231 votes cast in the election. · 
Teresa Hoover and Alicia Coronas led their tickets to Monday's run-off in a closely contested election for the Class of 2000 officers. Hoover and her running mates -Carrie lledin, Kelly Starman and Brian 
the rate of increase is actually decreasing. This year's hike decreased to 5.3 percent from 
5.5 percent from the year 

Approximately 
33.2 percent of the University's educational and general expens­es comes from revenue sources such as the din­ing halls, the Copy Shop and the bookstore. D a v i d Prentkowski, director of Food Services, says the dining halls are "ran some­what like inde­pendent busi­nesses." 
Pren tkowski even worries sometimes that the revenues 
won't provide 
enough funding for the year, especially when 
the dining halls perform ser­vices that are "not cost-efTec­tive," such as running Reckers 24 hours a day. 
--~·-r_o_u_r_]-g-o_a_l_[_fo_r_th_1_·s_y_e_a_r_] 

Borger -received 39.9 percent of the votes cast, while Coronas' ticket -herself, Walker Candelario, Richard Deferia and Nina Stephan -garnered 37.4 percent. Coronas said she was glad to be moving on and would not let up on the cam­paign trail. 
"\Ve're excited to be going into the run-off," she said. "We'll be working hard this weekend." 
Peter Rossman and his ticket will advance to the run-otT for the Class 
see ELECTION/ page 4 
was to break even," said Prentkowski. lie indicated that Food Services will most likely reach this goal. 
The final portion of the bud­get consists of various gifts and revenues from the University endowment. Last year marked a record high in annual gifts the University received, adding to the $1.8 billion endowment. 
Revenues generated from the endowment come from University investments in enterprises such as real estate, U.S. bonds and global equity. 
The endowment, which actually consists of more than 2,000 individual endowments, is especially important to Notre Dame because as a pri­vate school, it does not receive public funding from the state of Indiana. 
\Vhere has all the money 
gone'! 
Some students may be won-

s_e_e_B_,.,u_o_G_E...T_/_p...,ag_e_4_~ 

Stanford Hall selects new dorm mascot 
By FINN PRESSLY News Writer 

The residents of Stanford Hall voted to end their days as the Studs by officially renaming themselves the Stanford Griffins, in honor of campus legend Father Hobert Griffin. 
"He worked at the University for over 35 years and was asso­ciated with the hall for a long time," said Father Tom Gaughan, rector of Stanford 
Griffin was also a nationally syndicated \\Titer, whose column "Letters to a Lonely God" was pub­lished in several Catholic publications, in addition to its weekly spot in The Observor. 
Griffin was frequently accompaniod around campus by his cocker spaniel, Darby O'Gill. whose name was leant to a popular campus hang-out. 
"Darby O'Gill's was in the basement of LaFortune in the 60's and ?O's back when there was no 24-hour space on campus," said Gaughan. "He opened it from midnight to 5 on weeknights for folks to drop in and take a break or study." 
The new mascot was officially announced on Sunday night at a special mass. celebrated by University president Father Edward Malloy. The mass kicked off Stanford Sprit Week, which culmi­
see STANFORD I page 6 


page 2 The Observer• INSIDE Friday, February 26, 1999 
¦ INSIDE COLUMN 

What have you done for me lately? 
I'd like to address the University in the words of Janet Jackson: "What have you done for me lately'?" 
I love this school -its reputation, its spirit 
and its mission in mak­ 
ing me a better person.  Christine Kraly  
What I do not love, how- Assistant News Editor  
ever, is the school's need  

to pat the backs of visitors, while the studenl'i' backs are left untouched. 
There is no denying the beauty of the new Eck Center, and especially, the new Hammes bookstore. The brilliant brass fixtures and shiny wooden bookshelves give the store a touch of elegance. 
As you pass by the glass case full of Irish knickknacks, you walk into the apparel section, where the sweatshirts and hats are arranged with such fantastic pizzazz, you feel you 're in Bloomingdale's instead of a college bookstore. 
It's Barnes and Noble meets Foot Locker, with a touch of sophistication. 
I heard on a radio announcement that the new bookstore holds more than 75,000 general title books. While this is great for the campus tourist looking for a bestseller to read on the plane ride home, what does this do for the stu­dents? 
How many of us have the time to read all of our required materials, let alone one of the thousands of extra books the bookstore now has the space to sell? Where are OUR books? You guessed it -upstairs, out of the way for the more important customers -the football fans eager to find the perfect sweatshirt for game day. 
What have you done for me lately? 
I live on South Quad and loved that the book­store was near to me. It was never a hassle to buy books, Christmas gifts, or even visit my friend Gina who works in the class ring depart­ment. 
Going to the bookstore is now more of a has­sle than anything. Should l walk l O minutes for the one-minute job of dropping off film? 
And what about poor north quad residents? lt'hat have you done for them lately? The University has stripped us of the conve­
nience of the bookstore. It has pulled a rug out from under us, and we are left with nothing to do but literally, "go the extra mile" for books. cards and the occasional new T-shirt. 
I agree that the bookstore needed some sprucing up. It was in desperate need of a facelift. What it was not in need of was a loca­tion change. 
The bookstore served the students well when it was on South Quad. Though it was still a trek for student,;; on North Quad, it was much closer then than it is now. 
The new bookstore is not designed to serve the students. It caters to one group, and one group only: those who do not live on campus. 
On football weekends the crowds spilled onto the quad and the line for the bookstore seemed never-ending. Now what will happen when football frenzy begins and the crowds spill out onto the nearby street? How safe will that be? 
I love the beauty of the bookstore, but I hate the pretension under which the beauty was built. 
Fans and alum may "ooh" and "aah" over the place, spending a half hour looking for the new perfect Fighting Irish shirt and never have to give the store another thought. 
I can only ask, as my back goes un-patted: 
What have you done for me lately? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
¦ TODAY'S STAFF 

News Scene Erica Thesing Mark DeBoy Sarah Hiltz 
Graphics 
Kate Steer 

Joe Mueller 
Sports 

Production 
Mike Connolly 

Noah Amstadter 
Viewpoint 

Lab Tech 
Colleen Gaughen 

Kevin Dalum 
The Ob,er\'cr (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday .-xcepc during exam and vacarion period,. The Observer is a member of che A,sociated l're,s. All reproduccion right, are reserved. 




utside the DOme 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Affirmative action picketers seek 'complete equality' 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. and the University of Virginia. "We won't take resegregation, we 
Many student group leaders on cam­want quality education!'.. pus used the Day of Action as an 
Dozens of students chanted this slo­opportunity to speak about other ongo­gan as they marched across the Diag ing University and international issues, as part of yesterday's Student and including the Graduate Employees Youth National Day of Action in Organization negotiations, sweatshop defense of affirmative action rally. labor and the U.S. Government sanc­
"This is a real movement," said tions on Iraq. Rackham student Jessica Curtin, a GEO member Cedric DeLeon said one 
member of the Coalition to Defend Affirmative Action By Any Means Necessary. 
The rally was a way to support "complete equality and complete integration of society," said Curtin, a Michigan Student Assembly representative. 
She added that Day of Action participants fought for equality in areas including K-12 education, employment and housing. 
"That is our goal in defending affirmative action," she said. 
Curtin said about 20 other colleges and universities nationwide also participated in yesterday's Day of Action, including the University of California at Berkeley 
¦ UNIVERSfTY OF TEXAS Board to work on grades for athletes 
AUSTIN, Texas 

A Texas legislator is pushing for the creation of a state­wide minimum academic standard for student athletes to improve graduation rates. "We've got to do something to make sure these athletes have a fighting chance to gradu­ate," said Rep. Ron Wilson, D-Houston. Wilson filed a bill that calls for the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board to create the academic standards, which could include a minimum grade-point average. The board could also track the graduation rates of student athletes and use the information to assess the performance of each univer­sity. If the coordinating board finds a university is non­compliant with the standards, that school would be barred from using state funds or student fees to support athletic events until a compliance agreement can be reached with the board. If the university doesn't fix the problem within a year, it would be barred from participating in intercolle­giate athletics for two years. 
¦ BROWN UNIVERStTY 
Female rabbi credits Brown for career 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. 

When alumna Laura Geller was growing up in Brookline, Mass., she had no idea that she would make history as the first female rabbi selected to lead a major metropolitan syna­gogue. In fact, until 1972, there were no female rabbis at all. Since Geller became the fourth female rabbi in 1976, over 250 women have been ordained in the reform, reconstruc­tionist, and conservative movements of Judaism. Geller's experience as a religious studies concentrator at Brown led her to begin her current career path. "I credit Brown with setting me on the path that led to my eventually choosing to go into the rabbinate," she said. In her freshman year, Geller took a class on Christian Ethics. "It was an incredible class, and I loved it, and I loved [the teacher), and I took every class that he taught. Before I knew it, l was majoring in Christian Ethics, which is not exactly what I intended to major in when I came to college, but he and other professors opened me up to thinking about religion in ways that I never had before." 
¦ SOUT!i BEND WEATHER ¦ NATIONAL WEATHEB 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather@forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather<!l forecast for noon, Friday, Feb. 26. Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
H L 

Friday ~ 42 25 Saturday ~50 35 Sunday 42 35
~ 
FRONTS:

Monday ~ 35 26 
e e 

C 1999 AccuWeather, Inc. 
•• •-•
COLO WARM STATIONARY 
Prnsu,.;
Tuesday ~ i' 46 26 
®© . Dc:::J ... O· ~~# ~~~ 
High Low Showers Rain T-storma Flurries Snow Ice 
t.,,."1 ,. :..; 

¼a Assoc,ated Press 
Atlanta 65 Boston 36
4,Q,~9Q.Q O ~ ~ 
Cincinnati 45 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Detroit 39 
Via Assoc1a/Bd Press Grapt11csNe/ 
issue currently being debated in GEO 
contract negotiations is the hiring of "women and people of color" for at least two terms of teaching and improving training conditions for iriterna­tional graduate student instructors. 
"Don't believe for a second that this University is 100 percent pro-affirmative action," he said, urging partici­pants to support a possible GEO strike. "Honoring our picket lines means honoring women and people of color at the University ... defending our picket lines means defending affirmative action." 
Speakers at the rally included Detroit Cass Technical High School senior Agnes Aleobua, who plans on attend­ing the University in the fall. 
¦ UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA AT BERKELEY 
Suit claims inadequate help for deaf 
BERKELEY, Calif. 
UC Berkeley -the first campus in the nation to offer services to disabled students -discriminates against stu­dents who are hearing-impaired, according to students who yesterday filed a federal discrimination lawsuit against the University. Citing inadequate services for stu­dents with hearing disabilities, the Employment Law Center and Legal Aid Society of San Francisco along with a San Francisco law firm filed the class action lawsuit against the University on behalf of the three UC Berkeley students. The suit, which alleges UC Berkeley's failure to comply with regulations of the Americans with Disabilities Act, was presented at a San Francisco press conference yesterday. As the institution whose initiative to create a disabled service program in the 1960s led universities across the nation to do the same, UC Berkeley has failed to provide sufficient interpreter services rc;r hearing­impaired students, the plaintiffs alleged. 
¦ UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA 
Depressed man sues for discrimination 
MINNEAPOLIS 
Attorneys on both sides of what is believed to be Minnesota's first depression-related discrimination case brought forth arguments in the Minnesota State Court of Appeals Wednesday. In 1995, former University employee Robert Shaw sued the University for discrimination after being fired from his job as a Facilities Management pro­ject manager. He claimed he was discriminated against because of job-related depression; a jury awarded him more than $500,000 in compensatory damages in January 1998. But Hennepin County District Court judge Franklin Knoll overturned the case in the early summer of 1998, on the grounds that Shaw did not have the right to sue. During Wednesday morning's hearing, Judy Schermer, Shaw's attorney, appealed Knoll's assertion that because Shaw did not exhaust the proper internal grievance channels, he was never entitled to make the claim in court. 
43  Kansas City 54  45  Palm Beach 76  55  
28  Los Angeles 77  52  Phoenix  76  51  
25  Louisville  51  33  Seattle  52  40  
24  Milwaukee  42  26  Washington  46  29  


------------.--------..-----------------------­
-
Fridav, February 26, 1999 

, ' The Observer. CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Nussbaum explores need for Mendez takes over universal list of human rights law school center 
By DEREK BETCHER 
A~sistant News Editor 
Accnli-rating snx Pquality through the implemen­tation of a universal list of essm1tial human rights fornwd tlw rPnlPrpiPCP of' a lecture about wonwn and dm.,,dopnwnt given by Martha Nussbaum, a UnivPrsity of' Chicago profossor of law and ethics. 
Nussbaum·s Pxamination of women's issues 


focused on developing nations, especially India. ½''omen across the world desire economic self-suf­liciency, Nussbaum noted, but her talk largely addressed reform efforts in India because she recently participated in a U.N. research project there. 
The challenges Indian women face resemble those of women elsevvhere. 
"The body that labors is in essence the same body around the world," shP noted. "All workers are badly paid but women face special disadvan­tages." 
By working to improve education, employment opportunities, land rights and nutrition, govern­ments and volunteer organizations can make great progress towards ensuring progress on sex equality, Nussbaum said. 
"We need to be highly alert to the variations of need," she added. 
\iVhile exact circumstances vary, the issue does not, Nussbaum said. She emphasized the univcr­sal i ty of feminist issues and explained that because of these universal characteristics. disci­plines such as philosophy and political theory can supply common solutions to aid sex equality around the globe. They can also help dispel persis­tPnt criticisms against the international feminist movement, Nussbaum explained. 
IntPrnational fominists still encounter charges of westernizing when they try to export their ideas to the developing world. These charges arc "not fair at all," Nussbaum told her audience. Arguments raising questions of culture, diversity and pater­nalism all fail to counter the need for greater sex equality in the developing world, Nussbaum emphasized. 
Thursday's lecture was the fifth annual Theodore M. Hesburgh lecture on ethics and pub­lic policy. Nussbaum will present a second lecture today at 3 p.m. in the llesburgh Center on the top­ics of religion and sex equality. 
Nussbaum is a professor of law and ethics at the University of Chicago. She holds appointments in the school's law, philosophy. divinity and classics departments. She has authored several books on feminist issues. 
Special to The Observer 
Juan Mendez, executive director of the Inter­American Institute of Human Rights in San Jose. Costa Rica, has been appointed director of Notre Dame Law School's Center for Civil and Human Rights. 
Mendez. a native of Lomas de Zamora, Argentina, received his law degree from Stella Maris University in Mar del Plata in 1970 and for five years practiced labor law and defended political prisoners. 
During Argentina's military dictatorship, from 1976-83, he was twice imprisoned for his political and professional activities. He was adopted by Amnesty International as a "Prisoner of Conscience" in 1976. 
After his release, Mendez moved to the United States and soon acquired a reputa­tion as a leading international human rights lawyer, From 1982~88,.he directed the Washington, D.C., office of Americas \Vatch, a human rights organization principal­ly concerned with Latin America nations. 
He was executive director of Americas Watch from 1989~94, leaving that position to become general counselfor Human Rights Watch in New York from 1994-96. He has directed the Inter American Institute of Human Rights since then. 
Mendez has taught and lee* tured at the Aspen Institute, Georgetown University, Johns Hopkins University and Oxford. He also was a fellow of Notre Dame's Kellogg Institute for International Studies during the 1996 fall semester. 
He has written numerous articles on international human rights law for a wide variety of scholarly journals and several opinion pieces in the New York Times, the Los Angeles Times and the Miami Herald. 
The Notre Dame Law School's Center for Civil and Human Rights was founded in 1973. At first, the center's efforts concerned civil rights in the United States, largely because of the work of Father Theodore Hesburgh, then­president of Notre Dame and a member of the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights. 
In recent years, largely due to the efforts of Father William Lewers, its director from 1988 until his death in 1997, the center has become increasingly concerned with international human rights, undertaking such projects as study of the draft and military justice systems during. the Vietnam period; and develop­ing a computerized database of human rights violations by the for mer military regime in Chile. 


• Deloitte& the answer , s Touche 
0 
Deloitte & Touche is an equ<?I oppor~u!litY firm. Wde recruit!, e'!'ploty't~r~i~a·~r~~f~~!i~san3i:~b~rit:/1;~~~i~;:~rsdt!~::.ce,
rel':gion, creed, color, national ongrn, age, gen er, sexua or,en a 10 , , , ©1999 Deloitte & Touche LLP• 
..__.___, 



page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, February 26, 1999 
facilitate the school. said. Koepfle is quick to point ment." "I think· that does surprise out that preparing a budget is Rhea Gertken and Pat Foy
Budget Elections 
people," said Sejdinaj. "very labor-intensive" and that will continue their campaigns Those amazed at the staggcr­there are other facilities that continued from page 1 for off-campus senator over tlrn
continued from page 1 

ing numbers might ask, Who need funding. too. weekend, as neither was ablP 
Investment 
income 
1998 Revenues 

suffers cut-backs. "especially in the areas of travel,"
sources 
Tuition 

whfm it does not
and fees 

receive all its money. The administration 
Grants and 
takes measures 
contracts 
such as creating 
its own set of sta­
tionary so they 
Contributions 
do not have to spend any unnec­
Nrl gains on 

essary money.
inwstment 

The University. when denying the departments their requested budgets, usually responds "just that funding's not 
Graphic courtesy of the U~iversity of Notre Dame availabl c , " she 
STEPHEN JlJDE VANESSA JENNIFER TOM FRY LAW REDGRAVE EHLE WILKINSON 
"PLAYING THE LARGE DANDY/SH
WRITER' WITH OBVIOUS GUSTO, 
STEPHEN FRY LOOKS UNCANNILYUKE 
WIWE. MR. FRY'S WARMLY 
SYMPATHETIC PERFORMANCE FINDS 
THE GENTLENESS BENEATH THE WIT." 
-Janet Maslin, THE NEW YORK TIMES 
"A TOWERING ACHIEVEMENT! 
A DISTINGUISHED FILM OF RARE INTELLIGENCE-LITERATE AND MOVING!" 

-Rex Reed, NEW YORK OBSERVER 


"AN ELEGANT FILM!" 





ILDE 
A film by Brian Gilbert 
!RiWi!•!. lmffi =~..,._ ~2!:!L!!£J.P~ CLASSICS"' 
Cinema at the Snite Fri. & Sat. 7: 15 p.m. and 9:45 p.m. Presented by ND Film, Television, and Theatre www .nd.edu/~cothweb 

"You just have to be patient  of 2002 offices against Tim  to garner the required majority  
and wait for it," she said.  Lyden and his running mates.  of votes Thursday. Foy and  
It is unusual. according to  Rossman's ticket received 31 .2  Gertken, who  are  both  mem­ 
Sejdinaj, that the University  percent of the  vote,  while  bers of thP currPnl Student  
would witness any monetary  Lyden's garnered 21.7 percent.  Senate, wern tlw onlv two can­ 
surplus at the end of the year.  Lyden and his running mates  didates entc~ri·cl in 'thP  race.  
In the ram occasion that it does  made it into the run-off by the  vVhilc Gertken t•dgPd Foy 96 to  
happen, though, the leftover  narrow margin of six votes  93 in tho vote  totals, thorn  
money is added to  a  financial  over the ticket headed bv Tim  were  31  registPrPd voll~s  to  
aid endowment that has been  Jarotkie\.\1 icz. There \Vere six  abstain. As a  result, nnithnr  
receiving funds since 1990.  groups of' candidates vying to  candidate received a  majority.  
According to Sejdinaj, Notre  lead this year's freshman class,  and  a  run-off will be lwld to  
Dame students can witness the  doubling the number of candi­ determine a winrwr.  
influence of the University's  dates in any other class.  Hun-offs will be held Monday,  
budget whether listening to  a  ..A lot more freshmen tend to  with voting in residence halls  
lecture in class, or sitting on  run,"  said  Nicole  Borda,  from 11  a.m.  to 1 p.m. and 5  
freshly-cut lawn in the middle  Judicial Council vice president  p.m. to 7 p.m. Off-campus stu­ 
of the quad.  for elections. "It seems to be a  dents can votr, from 12 p.m. to  
"It's really like a  little city,"  good thing for them  to  get  4 p.m. in LaFortune Student  
said Sejdinaj.  involved in student govern- Center.  

ANNOUNCING THE 1999 ANNUAL AWARDS OF ALBERT RAVARINO ITALIAN STUDIES TRAVEL SCHOLARSHIP 
la 

Thanks to a generous gift from the Albert Ravarino family, the Italian Studies Program is pleased to announce the 1999 annual competition for travel in support of summer research and foreign stu,dy in Italy. Grants will be made in amounts not to exceed $3,500, and will not normally cover all expenses. Notre Dame graduate and undergraduate students who are planning to pursue research or a formal program of summer study in Italy are invited to apply. Students must have completed at least one year of Italian language. The course work will normally be in Italian; will involve the study of Italian language,literature, and culture; and must be applicable to a student's degree program at the University of Notre Dame. 
Recommended programs for foreign study include. but are not limited to: Loyola University in Rome, Boston University in Padua, UCLA in Pisa, Miami University in Urbino, Columbia University in Scandiano. Interested students are encouraged to consult the materials on Italian foreign study in the Department of Romance Languages, 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Students are invited to submit a letter which should include: 
1. 
an explanation ofhow the proposed research orforeign sllldy will enhance their degree program at Notre Dame 

2. 
a personal statement indicating their back.ground, interests, and long term goals 

3. 
a description ofthe research project ofthe program they intend to follow 

4. 
a budget indicating the costs involved 

5. 
the names oftwo references 


Application Deadline: Friday, March 5th, 1999 Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship Program in Italian Studies 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall University of Notre Dame 


ihe Wo11tl Convet11es at ~otte Dame 
fn a week of 

fashion, film, food, litcra111re, sports, talent 
----·----·-·--··-­
lntemational Student Affairs 204 LaFortune Center 

219-631-3824  
02125 Thurs.  DeBartolo Hall Rm 119  7:00pm  DOCUMENTARY ON ARAB CULTURE  
The Message  
02/23 Tues. 02/26 Fri.  Cushing Auditorium Montgomery Theater  7:00pm 2:00pm  ND UNITED MUSLIM ASSOCIATION BOOK SALE  
Ctr F.:,r Social Concerns  6:00pm  
02/26 Fri.  Montgomery Theater  3:00pm  LECTURE-Democracy and Human Rights  
in Islam-Dr. Assad Bussool  
02/26 Fri.  Ctr for Social Concerns  6:00pm  INTERNATIONAL FOOD BAZAAR  
02/27 Sat  LaFortune Ballroom  7:00pm  INTERNATIONAL FESTIVAL  
TALENT & FASHION SHOW·  

Sponsored by the Asian-International Society, Chinese Friendship Association, lndi~ ~~ciath>n of Notre Dame, International Student Organization, Muslim Students Association Notre Dame United Muslim Association, and the Office of International Student Affairs. ' dcring how much of this money they actually see. According fo Sejdinaj. they can see a lot of it. lie poinwd to services people may overlook, such. as the fire department and Notre Dame Security/Police. 
Much of the budget, not sur­prisingly, g<H~s to faculty salaries. The 1997 average salary for a full professor \\'as $90,300 a year. 
Financial aid, a godsend to those parnnts shelling out the tuition payments, receives a major portion of the budget as well. Notre Dame donated $43.6 million in scholarships and follovvships in 1998. 
Another large portion of the budget is distributed among University departments. such as the various academic colleges and Facilities Operations. 
Whether it's invested in sup­plies for the College of Engineering, or mulch for a new patch of grass outside the library. all the money goes to 
runs the show? \'\!ho is the man behind the curtain controlling the funding for the city we call Notre Dame? According to Scjdinaj, there is no one man. but many people pulling the strings of the money mari­onette. 
The officers of'the University decide every year what the bud­gc t should be used for and approximately how much it will cost. They send their proposal to the Board of Trustees who either approves it or denies it. The funding is then allocated to each of the individual depart­ments. 
The departments, however, do not alwiws receive all the money they o~iginally request. 
"The budget's always too small," said Mary Ellen Koepfle, director of Restricted Funds. Regarding the College of Arts and Letters, Koepfle says that this year's allocation is similar to last year's. 
Koepfle. though, knows that 
Arts and Letters 


·--~ ---~-----~-------------.-----~ ...
r 

COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
¦ WofRD Nrvvs BRIEFS 
Feminist professor causes trouble for men 
BOSTON 

A rad ka I fnm inist professor at Boston Collcg(' has been givPn an ultimatum from the school: admit men to her classes or stop lPaching. Theologian Mary Daly lets only women tak!' her courses. Daly, ,vhosc seven major books. including "Outercourse," have made her a pioneer in feminist circles, has said she ,-nrn't back clown. Opening her rlass('S to mPn would compromise her belief that womPn tend to dder to a man whemwm­one is in tlw room. she said. Daly took a IPav<' or absnncn from tlrn Jesuit college this st'mestPr ratlwr than bow to demands that she admit senior Duarw Naquin into her class in feminist ethics. Naquin. who claimed discrimination. has tlrn backing of the Cenh~r for Individual Hights, a conservative law firm in \Vashington vvhosc lmvsuit £mded afTirma­livc action at the University of Texas. 
HIV infects 3 million in 1998 
GENEVA 

Six young people am infected With the AIDS virus every minute, the United Nations said Thursday as it launched a ne\v cam­paign to slow the spread of the epidemic among youth. Nearly 600.000 children under 15 and 2.5 million people aged 15-24 caught tlw lluman Immunodeficiency Virus last year. it said. "Too many children are still bning deprived of AIDS information and skills because of fears by adults -including gov­Prnment authorities -that education will increase snxual activity when evidence shows the opposit<' is true," said Peter Piot, hllad of' UNAIDS. The UNAIDS campaign, called "List(rn, Learn. LivP," is aimml at increasing dialogun with the young about the risks of eatching thn disease. 
Man sues over misspelled tattoo 
HOSEVILLE. Mich. 

A man who usPd guesswork instead of a dictionary when getting a tattoo is now suing the tattoo parlor ovor the mistaken spelling of "villain." Lee \,Villiams was left with "vil­lian" on his right forearm, but he didn't noticP until a friend made f'un of him, according to tlw Circuit Court lawsuit filed Wednesday. Williams, 23, is seeking $25,000 in clamag,~s against Eternal Tattoos. To cover up tlrn mistake he had plastic surgery, which cost him $1,900 and lnf't a "scar as long as his forearm," said his lawyer, Paul Clark. v\'illiams, a student at Wayne State University and a former rvtarine, got the tat­too in 1<J<Jf,. Bel'ore tho procedure, workers at the parlor debated how to spell the word, Clark said. \Villiams wasn't sure. Pither. 

Dow 
AMEX: 693.47
]ONES 
-2.32 
Nasdaq:

9366.34 

2326.82 

Same:I 
• ) 2.56 
NYSE: 
587.43 
-4.1-1 
S&P 500: 1241.70 
Composite
•
+0.20 
Volume:
-33.33 782,000,000 
VOLUME LEADERS 

1 p\1n:sr rn t.rn •s,n1.i.:S!il' :i !i~l:S !!Bin 
llF I.I. ( 0~11'1 ·1 FR l'iTU. ( 0111'  llFI.I. l'iTC­ -I.HO •Z:"O'I  -1.~0rnl v!.62~0  81.'~ 127.""~  
'\0\TI I  l'i(  ",()\ I.  +i))C9  +Ui800  20.Kk  
·\ \fA/'.0'-.< 0\1 I "I;( <,~co,\,, rw, ,11< Ro,on crniP 11\IC ,of I\\ \Ill. l'-l  ~\ll.'\ c,co,1,n B\K,  +12.MJ -1.H +O,.tl -11.~7  +14.tlt.2:~ .1.43•~ ..U.h,!~O -~.HOO  125.00 qs.~11 1~350 ~U•  
~l'l'l.lrU \I\ I fRIAL  ~ \1-\"1  -6.:'-9  •..l.:_1;:tH~O  bJ.i~  
ORA!"U (OKI'  OR( L  •4.1~  •l.1312  ~S.011  
\1( I\\Oki.II< 0\1 I'\('  \\( 0\1  •l.J1  +l.~42~  M~.MK  


ASSOCIATED P1rnss ries. president, had been rejected by the 
ENUGU It was a wound that politicians for leading People's Democratic Party. 
Nigerian politics are split by hard the Alliance for Democracy were Instead, the party chose General ethnic differences and held together toiling to deepen before the presi­Olusegun Obasanjo, 61, a Yoruba by fragile alliances, short on ideolo­dential election. Feeding on the from the southwest who is popular gy and long on ambition. Days region's longtime sense of ethnically with Nigeria's third main ethnic before Nigerians vote on Saturday to motivated exclusion was their best, group, the Hausa-Fulani in the elect the man who will preside over and maybe only, chance to claim the north. Twenty years ago he became the country's first civilian govern­nation's highest political office. the country's first military leader to nrnnt in 16 years, deals are being Ensconced in a throne-like chair give up power voluntarily, winning cut. Maybe in no place is the maneu­at the Alliance for Democracy's respect here and abroad. vering going on more furiously than headquarters here, Arthur The Alliance for Democracy and here in southeastern Nigeria, which Nwankwo, the head of the party in another group, the All People's has become the battleground for the the southeastern states, received a Party, have joined forces by present­presidency. stream of reports that made him ing a common presidential candi­
Consider the suddenly shifting for­ebullient on Sunday, including one date, Olu Falae, 60, a former finance tunes of' the Alliance for Democracy, from a party agent from a neighbor­minister and a Yoruba from the one of the three parties in Nigeria, ing state. southwest. It is a union of' two par­Africa's most populous country. "The mood of the people is out­ti es that share almost nothing 
A big loser in earlier elections in rage, outright anger." the agent except a desire to win the presiden­the last two months, the party won said. cy -what Nwankwo described as most of Enugu State in legislative "So you are exploiting that one?" "an unholy alliance." races last Saturday. The rival. domi­Nwankwo said. "Very much." "It's a pragmatic alliance, not an nant party's choice of a presidential What Nwankwo and fellow mem­unholy alliance," corrected an offi­candidate from outside the region bers of the Ibo ethnic group here cial who said he was not Nwankwo's reopened an old wound in the coun­exploited was anger that one of' their political consultant but cheerfully try's complex history of ethnic rival-own, Alex Ekwueme, a former vice kept giving him advice. 
Man gets death in dragging case 
ASSOCIATED PRESS crimes since the civil gars in a V sign and said, ty. rights era -shocked the "Everything's OK." "I ,,:ouldn't expect for JASPER, Texas nation and horrified resi­On the courthouse him to say 'God bless the 
Smirking and cursing dents of Jasper, a timber lawn, women high-fived Byrd family,"' said Byrd's his victim's family as he town of 8,000 people each other and sister Mary Verrett. ''It was led away, white about 100 miles northeast exclaimed, "Justice is just sums up the total supremacist John William of Houston. served!" personality of this young King went to death row King becomes the first ·•For once, I'm proud to man. He has no remorse, Thursday for chaining a white sent to death row in be from Jasper. For once, even in the face of death.•• black man to a pickup Texas for killing a black justice has been served in Through his attorney, truck and dragging him to person since capital pun­Jasper," said Ethel Parks, King released a statement pieces. ishment resumed in the a black woman wearing a saying: "Though I remain 
Eleven white jurors and 1970s. Texas has execut­T-shirt with a picture of adamant about my inno­their elected black fore­ed only one white person Byrd beneath tho words, cence, it's been obvious man took less than three for killing a black -in "Love, Peace and from the beginning that hours to sentence King to 1854. Harmony." this community would get lethal injection rather Byrd·s relatives wiped Spectators taunted what they desire; so I'll than lifo in prison, taking their eyes after hearing King, yelling ''Bye! Bye, close with the words of about the same amount of the death sentence but King!" as he was led from Francis Yockey. "'The time they needed to con­declined judge Joe Bob the courthouse. promise of success is with vict him Tuesday of mur­Golden's offer to say When asked if he had the man ,vho is deter­dering James Byrd. something to King. anything to say to Byrd's mined to die proudly 
The savage killing -Ryrd's nephew Darrell family, King said "Yeah" when it is no longer pos• one of the grisliest racial Verrett held up his fin-and muttered an obsceni-siblc to live proudly."' 



The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS Friday, February 26, 1999 
studies• 1oaial tile • ¥~p~· The Women of Badin Hall invite you to exploration. Keeping Life in Balance Badin Hall Chapel 02/28 Sunday 9.·00pm f ,/lowed by Mass 10:00ptr, Presenter t·1ndPresider,· Fr. Stephen New.ton/ CSC .: ;oc, 1/ and refreshments at B.·40pm  an  

r'tftf} 
Stanford 
<::,:/:/:t-·:..-_}--,-.·· .-,.-. 

continued from page 1 

I 
/
,,,. //. : \,, 


\·,·t ; 
Student(Jqvtmment
V 


nates tonight with the first annual Stanford Dance-a­Thon. 

"The Dance-a-Thon is a ten­hour dance challenge. The



I Tl 

guys in Stanford are dancing for pledges. The campus is 


The death penalty: faith and human rights 


NII I 'I H __,,., 

invited at the cost of five dol­lars per person, and it's open to everyone," said Gaughan. 
The proceeds will benefit Stanford's Lenten Project, the Hogar San Jose orphanage in Talagante, Chile. 
Dancing gets underway at 9 
p.m. tonight in the Stepan Center with live bands playing until 1 a.m., followed by a disc jockey until 7 a.m. 
Wednesdays & Saturday~ 3:00-5:00 1:00-3:00 
Transportation leaves from Library Circle 
I 
i Corne play with the kids­
I 
I 
! 
ball, arts & crafts, etc.... 
I 
I , • ! 
i 
Call Nancy in SG office 1-7668 or Emily Schmitt 4-3475 
l . ; ·.,, .,.•.•< ·.
·-~----____ _
,___ 

page 7 
Friday, February 26, 1999 The Observer• NATIONAL NEWS 
GOP leaders seek budget unity 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
A year after Republican divi­sions led to an embarrassing stalemate, House and Senate GOP leaders told their budget committee chairmen Thursday to work together and quickly produce a fiscal 2000 spending plan. 
llouse sp~akcr Dennis II as t<~rt, H-111. , and Sen ate majority lnader Trent Lott, H­Miss., made the comments in a closnd-door meeting as Hepublicans from the two cham b,)rs began designing a budget they hope to push through Congress by April. The remarks were described by offi­cials who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
IJouse Budget Committee chairman John Kasich. R-Ohio, told reporters afterward there was a i:onscnsus to produce 10­yPar tax cuts totaling $800 bil­lion to $900 billion, far more than President Clinton wants. Participants said the numbers mean any tax cut would be phased in gradually, rather than beginning next year in full force, but they have not yet agreed when the tax cuts would begin. 
Kasich also said there was general agreement to set aside about $1.5 trillion for Social Security, roughly what Clinton wants to use to buttress the program for the baby boomers' retirements, which begin in a decade. 
But Senate Budget Committee chairman Pete Domenici, R­N.M., wants to set aside more than that, and that issue is unresolved, said one official. 
Participants also said the leaders have made no decisions on which taxes will be cut and whether spending limits enact­ed in the 1997 budget-balanc­ing deal with Clinton will be honored. 
The group plans to meet 
again next Tuesday. 
Republican leaders are intent on producing a budget to show the public that the GOP has moved past Clinton's impeach­ment trial. and to avoid giving Democrats fodder for their familiar accusation that the GOP is running a "do-nothing Congress." 
The budget is also important because it will be a road map for several high-profile mea­sures Republicans want to pro­duce this year. These include tax cuts, spending increases for defense and education, and possible overhauls of Social Security and Medicare. 
Last year, arguments between Republicans over tax cuts prevented Congress from producing a budget for the first time since the current budget process began in 1975. 
Also attending the session Thursday were House majority leader Dick Armey, R-Texas, and Domenici. 

Panel supports missile defense 
Associaced Press 
WASHINGTON 
A !louse committee over­wlwlmingly approved legislation Thursday that declared a nation­al goal to deploy a countrywide ddensn systnm against ballistic missilPs but did not set a timetable to do it. 
The llouse Armnd SHrvices Committee approvnd the mea­sure. introduced by Reps. Curt Weldon, H-Pa.. and John Spratt, D-S.C., by a 50-3 margin. 
Prnsident Clinton has included money in hi:,; fiscal 1999 budget for b;•ginning construction on such a svstem but has delayed until June 2000 a decision on whether to go ahead. 
"I am encouraged by the administration's announcmrn~nt that an additional $6.6 billion has been identified for a national missile defense that might be deployed. But I am concerned that the administration has not committed to deploying this sys­tem." Weldon said. 
Such a system, to protect against incoming nuclear mis­siles, has long been a favored project of congressional Republicans since then-President Reagan proposed a space-based shield against incoming missiles in the early 1980s. 
Last year's firing of a ballistic missile by North Korea, and reports of weapons programs in Iran and Iraq, has drawn Democratic support to the pro­gram as well. 
The committee vote "repre­sents an important step in the debate over defending the American people against the 
csc 
threat of ballistic missile attack," said the committee chairman, Floyd Spence, R-S.C. 
Spence said the vote's margin "reflects the committee's strong bipartisan belief that all Americans deserve to be protect­ed against the growing threat of ballistic missile attack." 
Voting against the measure were committee Democrats Wayne Evans of Illinois, Cynthia McKinney of Georgia and Tom Allen of Maine. 
The measure does not attempt to set a timetable or mandate the kind of missile defense system that should be built. 
The measure, which has 30 Republican and 28 Democratic sponsors, states simply "that it is the policy of the United States to deploy a national missile defense." 
C E N T E R F O R 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Come to hear the stories of 
Chicago Gang Members 
with Brother Bill Toomes 

-an open discussion-
Sunday, February 28, 1999 4 p.m. Center for Social Concerns 



Feds defend light truck crash test 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Last year when the federal government was looking for ways to make light trucks Jess dangerous to cars in crashes, automakers said officials should eliminate or alter a government crash test that was blocking design changes. 
On Thursday, the goverp· ment fought back, releasing a study that .,,. @;riif<iv~t> sa1'd ....·the 35 . . .. >. ·.
· .· .· · .............·:.::??;/ 
mlle';p~r:. ft· LJiit· "· , automakers . 
~ ~e~l' '.cr~f. .· ''I'::Ti::. ~1r~ inte~~~{. 

helped. . t() .·••:· "' .·. ·• . . . . , ed in looking
m.a.ke sportw:ENCEOF COMPATIBILITY. at how to utility veljJ-. . :~::wr;;',{\ make their des. pickup· ~, TERIWNCE CONNOLLY light trucks 
trucks and ,t •. '/ ...·•.•. ... . • less stiff. A other/ light DIRECTOR; GENERAL MOTORS major prob-
trueks> less "" 
deadly to · cars on the road. 
Officials at the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration ha,,ebeen con-corned at the growing number of car-passenger deaths in crashes betw~en light trucks and cars. Eightypertentofthe death~are-the .occupants in the cars. And light trucks· hold an ih<ieasJng J:I1arket"share1 now accountingJornearly half the new vehicles .sold in the 
Un·1··.te<1Stat~~ev.!..r.rrear.. 
I~igJft trti~ls.'$1: are more aggressive jn crashes becatISe they \\;eig~more, ride higher and have '?.tiff~,~ frame~ that tl'411sf~r morijs(Of.t.h~Ytrash 
push automakers into design­
ing cars that have reduced the 
probability of serious head 
injury in a 35 mph crash from 
40 percent to 10 percent. the 
study says. 
The paper will be delivered 
by government researchers at 
a conference in Detroit on 
Monday. 
Last year .at a vehicle com~ 
patibility summit between 
government officials and the 
· auto industry. .I:: domes·t·1c• 

',ertergy'to tli~C~tl)!t y~fti?le;;j '"·· ;;;,:,··~t.iffne~s·..·has·.not.~.'3creased····· 
·,.,:,:. The'NHTSAwsmdy?said Ugfit~'over the··last 15 years."· Flake 
SAFETY CENTER Iem, theysaid, was that 
the 35 mph crash test the government uses is so severe it requires 
light trucks to have stiffer 
structures in order to do well. 
The test is meant to provide information to consumers and automakers are not required to pass it as they are less severe tests. But it is like the governmenfs seal of approval and automakers fear if they abandoned it unilaterally, sales would suffer. 
Ford Motor Co. spokes­
,!!woman Jennifer Flake said the -automaker studied the same data as the safety agency and reached the oppo­s,ite c:onclusiop. < .·· . ·. .• .· : 

truck$....ar¢ Jesseaggtessive in crashes · with cars today because the stiffness of their front ends has decreased over the two decades the test has been in place. 
The crash test "may have influenced manufacturers to design less aggressive, and therefore, more compatible" light trucks, the study said. 
The government test, known as the New Car Assessment Program, crashes cars into a wall at 35 mph to rate the safety of vehicles for con­sumers. 
The test also has helped 
said. 
Terrence Connolly. director of General Motors' Safety Center, said automakers were now researching the issue of compatibility and wanted to work with the government in sharing data and ideas. 
"There's a lot more to be learned on the science of com­patability," Connolly said. 
llowever, engineers with the domestic automakers said theystill believe the crash test needs to be altered or elimi­nated to allow enough flexibil­ity for automakers to make 
design changes. 
• 


1rIRJE ID) ()~IBi1rM 

Now Leasing For Fall 1999 

• Conveniently located 4 Blocks from Campus Student Lease Available 
• 
or One Month free rent with a year lease 

• Large 2-Bedrooms for under $500.00!! "The Best Value In Off Campus Living" 
Professionally Managed by Real Estate Management Corp. 
234-9923 
• 
¦ 


page 8 The Observer. NATIONAL NEWS Friday, February 26, 1999 


Nixon tape tells of 1972 burglary at Chilean embassy 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
In the spring of 1972. a month before the Watergate break-in. the Chilean Embassy in Washington was surrepti­
tiously entered. A n e w I y released White House tape carries a tantalizing snippet ­President 

Nixon talk-Nixon 
ing about 
the break-in and telling his 
lawyer, "That thing was part 
of the burglars' plan, as a 
cover." 
The comment was included in 54 minutes of taped conver­sation from Nixon's secret tap­ing system that were released on Thursday at the National Archives. The conversations ­ranging from just a few sec­onds to several minutes long -had been withheld from earlier releases for national security reasons. 
The conversation occurred on May 16, 1973, the eve of Senate hearings on the Watergate affair. White !louse counsel John Dean was going to be a witness at the hearings and the president and his 
• lawyer, J. Fred Buzhardt, were in the Oval Office discussing what Dean might disclose. Nixon spoke of the break-in that had occurred at the Chilean Embassy one year ear­lier. On May 13, 1972, persons entered the embassy, riffled files and stole official docu­ments, books and radios. "But when we get down, for example, to the break-in, the Chilean embassy -that thing was part of the burglars' plan, as a cover. Those {expletive) are trying to have a cove.r ­or a CIA cover. I think Dean concocted that," Nixon said. Buzhardt agreed. "I think Dean concocted it." On Thursday, in a telephone interview, Dean disputed Nixon's supposition. "I didn't," Dean said. "They're full of baloney. But at that point they had me con­cocting everything back to original sin." 
Dean, who pleaded guilty in October 1973 to one count of conspiring to obstruct justice in tlw VVatPrgate scandal and served three months in jail, said he has never heard that the White House was behind the break-in at the embassy. 
Dean said he believes Nixon's talk of a "cover" is a reference to an attempt by lawyers for James McCord, one of the burglars arrested at the Watergate, to get his case dropped on grounds further investigation would reveal national security secrets. 
McCord, a former CIA agent and security chief for the Committee to Re-Elect the President, was trying to get the government to stop investigat­ing the Watergate break-in by saying the probe would lead to the revelation that there "had been some sort of surveillance of the Chilean embassy," Dean said. 
The embassy break-in occurred one day after Chile's socialist president, Salvador Allende, asked his country's legislature to nationalize the Chilean Telephone Co., which was largely owned by International Telephone and Telegraph Corp. ITT had opposed Allende's election in 1970. 
In other conversations: 
•Nixon 
talks in the Oval Office on July 2, 1971 with his ass istan t. Peter Flanigan, about giving ambassadorships to large contributors. They dis­cuss making one GOP donor ambassador to Belgium. "Understand, that's only if he gives a quarter-million," Nixon says. 

•Nixon 
talks in the Oval Office on July 1, 1971 with domestic adviser John Ehrlichman, aide Charles Colson and chief of staff H.H. Haldeman about the "Pentagon Papers" -a classified study of 


U.S. involvement in Vietnam prepared by the Defense Department and leaked to the press -and what they con­tained about the 1963 assassi­nation of South Vietnam's President Ngo Dinh Diem. 
Nixon blamed President 
Kennedy for Diem's death. 
"Kennedy decided to go for­ward and got us involved and it shows that Kennedy was the one who got us in the damn war," Nixon said. "We got the Kennedys in this thing now." 
As the tapes were opened to the public, the Nixon Library in Linda, Calif., provided -for the first time -released tran­scripts of the conversations on the released audio tapes. Nixon project at the archives. the Internet. Except under court order, Transcripts are hard to pre­


John Taylor, executive direc­the archives never makes tran­pare because of background tor, said the library provided scripts because there is no way noise, people talking at once, the transcripts and commen­to ensure the accuracy of the the difficulty of identifying tary so the public could read interpretation, says Karl voices and the quality of the them and compare them with Weissenbach, director of the recordings, he said. 
5th CITY WIDE CELEBRATION OF BLACK HISTORY MONTH 
JJfch. 25, 1999, @ 7:30 pm (Free Access) Hesburgh Library Lounge, University of Notre Dame 

By 

Dr. DUANE CADY 
Professor of Philosophy, Hamline University, Minnesota Author of:From Warism to Pac(ficism: A Moral Continuum, (Temple University. 1989) 


Jff£h. 27., 1999,@ 7:00 l}tu Main Auditorium, Kroc Institute ofInternational Peace Studies, Hesburgh International Center University ofNotre Dame 
66 ~P'ro1n the ,Cult of\.,1:olenrt' to ~on-'~/iolcnce. 0art,.e's \ 7it>vvs on '\'iolenre: .:\ Curious .A-.n1b:igu11y?" 
By 

Dr. RONALD E. SANTONI 
The Maria Theresa Barney Chair of Philosophy. Denison University, Ohio Author of Bad Faith, Good Faith and Atttltentici1v in Sartre 'J Early Philo.mph_,, (Temple University Press, 1995) 
DANCE PERFORMANCE 
By 

<Illtc Nubinn Qlultuntl ~auce 'c!rlpmtre of illlticaso 
.. & 
w"l1e ;§tcp Jthntciug <filub of tl1e Jilnibersitij of~otre J[lmne 
Tickets: General Admission: $5.00. Student:$ 3.00. Available at ND Information Desk (631-8128) 

I . 9 9 9 
Pullian1 Journalisn1 Fello\\'Ships 
Graduating college seniors arc invited to apply for the 26th annual Pulliam .Joun1alisn1 Fellowships. We \\1i1l grant I 0-week sutnrner intern­ships to ~0 journalis1n or lihcral m1s 111<-~jors in the August 1998-June I 999 graduatin!! classes. 
.... .... 

Previous inte111ship or pm1-ti1ne experience at a newspaper is desired. or other de1nonstration of writing and repOJ1ing ahility. Those who go through the Fe1lowships often find nc\v professional oppo11unitie:s open­ing up at other newspapers during and after the progran1. Winners will receive a $5.250 stipend and will work at either The Indianapolis Star and The Indianapolis Neivs or The Ari:onu Republic. ()pportunitics for online training are available, along with reporting experience at our nrnjor metropolitan daily newspapers. 
,.\l I L'ntric~ must he post1narked by March I. 1999. Successful appli­1..'.anh will he notified on or before April l and will be asked to respond imrni.:diately with a letter of intent. at which tin1e one-third of the cash "·!.!rant will he n1ailed to the Felio\\'. 
To request an application packet. visit our \\'l'h ,ilc. l' m~1il lh or write: 

Ru..,scll B. Pulliain 
Pulliam h:llowships Director The Indianapolis News Web site: www.stamews.com/pjf P.O. Box 145 E-mail: pulliam@starnc\\-s.com 
Indianapolis. IN 46206-0145 

Friday, February 26, 1999 page 9
The Observer. INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
¦ AUSTRIA 


Avalanche death toll rises to 33; 'miracle' child found 
How an avalanche kills 
Fatal avalanches have plagued parts of Europe in recent weeks as the region endures its snowiest winter in a half-century. A look at why slides are so deadly: 
Powder cloud: A wall of air saturated with snow blasts objects in its path with a strength up to three times greater than hurricane-force winds 
Suffocation 74% Track: The path of the sliding snow: the speed of an avalanche
Trauma··•J 
can reach 100 miles Runout zone: The bottom
24o/o,j 
per hour and carry of the slope where the mass along with it anything of snow and debris collects Hypothermia 2% that is on the which can bury objects with mountainside the strength of concrete 
AP Graphic 
Associated Press 
IANDECK 
The smile of a resuscitated four-year-old boy -given up for dead when rescuers found him under a massive snowslide -brought hope and joy to this snow-deluged valley Thursday, even as the death toll from two avalanches rose to 33. 
In the western Austrian vil­lage of Galtuer, where at least 28 people were killed, scores of rescuers used long metal probes to search for at least three people still believed buried beneath tons of snow. 
Videotapes brought back by rescue teams showed cars crushed by walls of snow or hurled like toys by the force of Tuesday's avalanche. The top floor of one house was missing, as if sliced off by a giant razor blade. 
Roads into the mountainous area remained blocked Thursday, but maintenance crews worked steadily, hoping to clear them by Friday after­noon. 

Dozens of helicopters ferried food and supplies into the stricken area, and brought out tourists. Choppers from the German army and police, Switzerland and U.S. army bases in Germany reinforced pilots from the Austrian army. 
The U.S. Blackhawks and other helicopters shuttling sur­vivors out to Landeck landed in a swirl of snow on a blocked-off autobahn outside of town. A string of buses there took vaca­tioners to an army camp where psychological counseling was available. From there, the trav­elers boarded trains for the final leg of the journey home. 
The four-year-old Austrian boy, whose name was not released, was dubbed "the mir­acle of Valzur" for surviving 100 minutes under the snow in the second of two deadly avalanches that killed dozens in western Austria. 
When rescuers found him late 


Wednesday, he was frozen and 
had no circulation. lie was 
rushed to nearby Galtuer. 
where doctors saved his life by 
slowly "warming him up" 
before sending him to a hospi­
tal in the town of Zams. 

"When he arrived at the hos­
pital he had a pacifier in his 
mouth, and he even smiled a 
little," Dr. Alo is Schranz told 
the Austria Press Agency. 

"The boy is well. lie eats nor­mally, he talks and plays," pediatrician Irene Walch told The Associated Press. She said he would remain under obser­vation. 
Meanwhile, authorities warned that the risk of more avalanches remained extremely high due to rising temperatures and fresh snow. Another slide hit Neustift in the Stubai Valley south of Innsbruck late Thursday, but initial reports said no one was missing. 
Another avalanche in Switzerland, set off artificially Thursday with explosives, injured at least one person. 
Among the 28 people con­firmed dead in the Galtuer snowslide were five Dutch ­two fathers and their children. Twenty-three people, eight of them injured, had been rescued from the village. The search continued Thursday, concen­trating on two ruined houses where 10 bodies, including sev­eral children, were pulled out of the deep snow, the Austria Press Agency reported. 
The other five confirmed dead were from the neighbor­ing village of Valzur. Three more bodies were uncovered there Thursday and at least two others were missing. 
Suffucation is the most likely cause of death in an avalanche, followed by being crushed by the weight of the snow . 
About 2,500 tourists were helicoptered out of Galtuer on Thursday and hundreds of oth­ers were flown from nearby vil­lages and hamlets. But about 1,000 remained in Galtuer. refusing to end their holidays. 
\\Teary survivors arriving in Munich, Germany, said they were glad to be back. 
Hans Weimann, 77, said the avalanche started with an incredible noise that "got loud­er and louder," before every­thing went white. 
The Galtuer avalanche is the worst to hit central Europe this winter, as the region endures its heaviest snowfall in 50 years. More than 70 people across Europe have died in avalanches this year. 
In Switzerland, the man· made avalanche that hit the southern ski resort of Luekerbad on Thursday sent one person to the hospital with a suspected heart attack. Several others were treated for shock. 
In the past few weeks. offi­cials have set off hundreds of controlled avalanches lo limit the potential for devastation. But there is currently so much snow that even deliberate explosions have become risky. 
ERASMUS 8(h1KS1 
•Used 
books bought and sold 

•25 
Categories of Books 

•25,000 
Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

•Out-of-Print 
search service: $2.00 

•Appraisals 
large and small 


Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 


u • ..... 
w ­


------------------Friday, February 26, 1999
page 10 

THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE D.,.~11 OH:rt:E: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 S:\l~T ~IARY':s OFHCE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Heather Cocks  
MANAGING ElllTOR Brian Rei nd1dler  BUSINE.'iS MANAGER Kyle Carlin  
AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR Hearher M.KKenii.- 

Nlws EDITOR .......................Mi<:hdle Krup,1 An\'f.RTISING MANAGfR ........................ Bryan Lutz V1Ewro1NT EDITOR .................. Eduardo Llull An DE.~IGN MANAGER ........................Brett Huelat SPORTS EDITOR ..................... Kathleen Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER .....................Michael Brouiller SCF.NF. ElllTORS............................Sarah Oyl.1g CONTROi.i.FR ..,. ............ ,.................... Dave Rogcro 
Kristi Klitsch Wl'll ADMINISTRATOR ..............,........Allison Krilla SAINT MARY'S EDITOR .......M. Shannon Ryan GRArHICS EDITOR ...............................Pete Cilella PHOTO EDITOR ........................ Kevin Dal um 
The l )h,crwr i., 1he indcpmdcm n=•ra~r published by ,he srudenr, of rhe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mar\'·, Colkgt. It docs not ncce.,,a,ily rdk-ct rhe policies ofthe administration ofmher institution. The n=s is rqxmc,.l a., accuratdy anJ ohjcc1ivdy '" po,sihle. Um,gnc.J «litnri.lls repr=nt the opinion of the majority ofche Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor. Assistant Managmg Ed1mr and department edimrs. Commcntari<"S, letters and columns pre><n! ,he vic-ws of rhc authors. and not necc-s.sarily rhose ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of,he Noire Damc/S;iint Mary's community and to all readers. The free exprc-ssion ofvarying opinions throu~h letter!'! i~ cncourageJ. 
Contacting The Observer Ediror-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5.31.) Managing Editor/Assiscanr ME 631-4541 Advenising 6.31-6900/8840 News/Photo 631 ·53B Systems 631-8839 Spores 631-4543 Fax 631-6927 Scene/S:iim Marv's 6.31-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoim. l@nd.edu Day Edicor/Vie,~point 631·5303 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu Otlice Manager/General I nfnrmadon 631-7471 News E-Mail observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 


¦ RIGHT OR WRONG? 

The Death Penalty is All Wrong for the U.S. 
Darryl Mease, a triple murderer, had been scheduled for execution by the state or Missouri on Jan. 27, the day Popo John Paul II celebrated Mass in the Trans \.Vorld Dome before 104,000 


Charles Rice 
persons. Mease's execution was post­poned because of the Pope's visit. After the Mass, the Pope walked over to Missouri Governor Mel Carnahan and said, "Have mercy on Mr. Mease." The Governor commuted Mease's sentence to lifo without parole. 
"I continue to support capital punish­ment." said Carnahan, "but after ... con­sideration of his direct and personal appeal and because of a deep ... respect for the Pontiff and all he represents, I decided ... to grant his request." While the Governor, a Baptist. responded to the Pope's appeal, polls show that Catholics and others in the United States reject, 2 to 1, the Pope's position on the death penalty. So is John Paul out of touch? Or is he on to something? Let's review some basics. 
The death penalty. legal in 38 states. is in trouble. One problmn is numerical. 3,549 inmates were on death row in the United States at the start of 1999, including 17 condemned under federal law. About 300 more are sentenced to death every year. In 1998, 68 persons were executed. To eliminate the backlog could require the execution of one per­son evnry day for about 60 years. 
A perennial problem. of possibly exe­cuting the innocent, was brought to the fore by the release this February of Anthony Porter from Illinois' demth row. 
Porter, who had come within two days of execution, was released when a Northwestern University journalism class investigated his case and obtained from another man a confession which exonerated Porter. 
A third problem is expense, The death penalty is three times more expensive than life imprisonment without parole. In North Carolina, each execution costs $2.16 million more; in Florida, $3.2 mil­lion more; in Texas, $2.3 million more. "Life without parole could save millions of dollars." wrote former Texas Attorney General Jim Mattox. "It's cheaper to lock'em up and throw away the key ... As violent crime continues to escalate, it's something to consider." 
\Vhile opinion polls generally show support for the death penalty, that sup­port has dropped to about 50 percent in some polls where the alternative pre­sented was guaranteed life without parole. Presumably that support would drop even lower if the alternative were, as some have proposed, "hard time" imprisonment for life under conditions more onerous than those imposed on other prisoners. 
The popularity of the death penalty reflects the cultural acceptance of the intentional infliction of death as a prob­lem-solving technique. Capital punish­ment is one manifestation of the "cul­ture of death," as are abortion and euthanasia. The victim in abortion and euthanasia, unlike the convicted crimi­nal. is innocent. But in all three cases. the ending of the life of a human being is the result of an essentially utilitarian calculation. 
At the Trans World Dome, however, John Paul said: "A sign of hope is the increasing recognition that the dignity of human life must never be taken away, even in the case of someone who has done great evil. Modern society has the means of protecting itself, without definitively denying criminals the chance to reform. r renew the appeal r made most recently at Christmas for a 
¦ D(HlNESBURY. 
'll!.AH,.7He/1&'sA 8/GU.N. £VENT 
7},(/9 Yr.AR-A 

FOi< A P.R. GJRO/<£; ~':''::t Ff.JU.PAY CFANTI­6055? PtJV!#<IYG>al<l§
CAtteJ? ·me'?
/ HOIUA80(JT A C0/1/CcRT?
\ consensus to end the death penalty which is both cruel and unnecessary." 

In Evangelium Vitae (EV), John Paul affirmed that the State, which derives its authority from God, has the right to impose the death penalty. But he restricted the permissible use of that penalty to "cases of absolute necessity ... when it would not be possible other­wise to defend society." This refers not to some generalized defense of society by imposing retribution or by deterring potential off enders. Rather it refers only to the protection of society from this com,icted criminal. 
The final text of the Catechism makes it explicit that a Catholic can no longer argue for the death penalty from an undifferentiated need "to protect": [T)he traditional teaching of the church does not exclude recourse to the death penal­ty, if this is the only possible way of effectively defending human lives against the unjust aggressor. If, howev­er, nonlethal means are sufficient to defend and protect people's safety from the aggressor, authority will limit itself to such means ... Today ... as a conse­quence of the possibilities which the state has for effectively preventing crime, by rendering one who has com­mitted an offense incapable of doing harm ... the cases in which the exocu­tion of the offender is an absolute necessity are very rare, if not practically nonexistent." (No. 226 7. Emphasis added.) 
A Catholic could still argue for the death penalty in exceptional cases, such as where a prisoner muroers a guard. Should you give him another life sen­tence? Or would it be consistent with his dignity to wall him up in a cell, with food and wastes passed through a slot and with no direct contact ever with any other human.tcing? Other cases could be argued, such as a rebellion or other disturbance in which the authorities would lack the ability to keep a murder­er securely imprisoned. Although the death penalty could be argued to be absolutely necessary in such cases, even there it is debatable. But the criterion is protection of society frc>m this criminal. 
Before EV, I and others supported the death penalty as a necessary way to restore the balance ofjustice and to promote respect for innocent life by inflicting a punishment for murder which was qualitatively different from the punishment for other crimes. But the Vicar of Christ has made these argu­ments obsolete, raising the discussion to a new level. He authoritatively chal­lenges the daim of the state to nssmne the jurisdiction or God over life and death. After discussing the death penal­ty. EV states. "If such great care must be taken to respect every life, even that of criminals and unjust aggressors. the commandment, "You shall not kill" has absolute value wlrnn it refers to the innocent person." (No. 57.) If we owe such respect to the life of the guilty, so much more, and absolutely so, with respect to the innocent. But this works the other way, too. If we could maintain the absolute inviolability of innocent life, we must begin by safeguarding even the life of the guilty from termina­tion except according to the very restrictive law or God. 
"God did not make death, and he does not delight in the death of the living." After Cain murdered Able, God "put a mark on Cain ... not to condemn him to the hatred of others, but to protect and defend him from those wishing to kill him ... Not el'en a murderer loses his personal dignity, and God himselJ' pledges to guarantee this ... God, who preferred the correction rather than the death of a sinner, did not desire that a homicide be punished by the exaction of another act of homicide." 0-:V No. 9) 
Professor Rice is on the Law School facully. llis column appears eL,ery other Friday. 
The Views expressed in this column are those ofthf! author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
UM... /1/HAT 
7H£Yfl7Cjl
A80/.JTOI.I< 
IN/PONAll;

~/<5'!' 
A IJlzK5
I 
tu.AG&~ 
SAY.1 
\ 
¦ fiUOTE OF THE DAY 
, Nietzsche is pietzsche.' 
-Club 23 men's bathroom wall 


Friday, February 26, 1999 
------~--------------------page 11 
¦ LETTER TO THE EDITOR . 


The Real Meaning ofBengal Bouts 
This is tlw story of just a rngular guy -not a boxer. :\:ot any morn. Last yi\ar I was Daniel "The Boxer Fornwrlv Known as" PrincP. This vcar I am Daniel "Tlw Fo;·nwr BoxPr Known as" Prlncn. It is a story about how murh sonwone can learn in four years. 
Likl' all ol' you who will lw graduating this year, I hav11 lnarned so much hen~ in my four years at Notro Dame. Academically, yns, but more im.portantly, I haV<\ learned much about life, society, and the world. The volunws of information I crammed into my head the night lwfore so many tests I will forget -I have already forgotten -but the experiences here I could nPV<'r forg<'t. Among thosn many experiences for me is boxing, which taught me more than I PV<'r thought it could. Boxing gave me an outlet, a f'ocus and organization, and it gave nw much nondod support. 
I lwgan my freshman year with the novicP program. but did not fight in the Bengal Bouts b(~cause my fath(~r didn't want m(~ to. lie didn't think it was a sal'n or good idea I had made the mis­take of' actually being honest with him. I should'vp just forged the dam insur­ancP form. The following summer. my family and I went through a scam when I had a tumor tlw size of a lemon rnmovnd from th1) bmw in my left arm. I still !war thP scars as a humbling remindPr of the surgnry and recovery I W<'nt through artnrwards. Becaus<~ of this I could not box my sophomore~ yPar. Finally for my junior year, my arm was recoverPd and I could box in tlw Bouts. I went into those bouts with a lot on my mind. 
On January 9, 1998. on thf) day my fatlwr was supposed to return to our honw in New York City, he awoke in our grandmother's house in Miami, Florida. when) we wnrn staying. IIn mvok<• l'rom pains in his chest. \1omPn\\'il1latt'1\-my grandmother woke mP up })f'caus<' som1~thing was wrong with my fatlrnr. I ran into my parents' bedroom and found my mother on tho pho1rn and my father lying motionless in his lwd, eyes 01wn. After performing CPH on my father I found out later that morning that my father had died or a heart attack. I do not tell you this to sadden you or for your pity. 
1tfdl you this because I honestly belitwc-boxing helpc•d nm. Gettipg pundwd in tlw fac1~ is not Pasy, it is <'Ven mon1 difficult to recover under 1·onti1H1Pd assault. But bning able to knep onP's composure• can usually get you out ol' that situation . .Just like they taught you ... over ... move ... jab ... straight punches ... don't get hit! 
\\'hnn I walked into my parents' bed­room I \Vas not nxpncting to have to give CPH to my father. that was harder than any punch I will c•vcr takn. But sonwhow I was able to keep my compo­sure and do what I had to. I'm not say­ing that boxing was tlw rPason I was able to knnp from going hysterical, but I bPlievn it had something to do with it. Soon aftPr, wlrnn tlrn 1998 Bengal Bouts began I had a lot of things on my mind. I threw myself into training for BPngals as soon as I returned to school. I didn't miss a single pra1:ticc last year. Psychiatrists may say I \Vas projecting, or channeling, or something like that, but I believe it helped mo considerably. I had a lot of things to think about. a lot of' anger to release. and emotions to get und<1r rnntrol. That's tlw thing very l'ew peoplP, including many boxers, realize: boxing is about control -not power. It's about controlling yourself. And that's what I needed -to get myself under control, but I found much more than I expect­Pd during training. I found a true friPnd in Kyle Smith. whom I spoke with often, and in Mike Homanclwk. who \Vas my tJppont!nt in the final rounds. but in whom I found someone who had gone through tlw same experim1ce I just had. Through Bengal Bouts I found a comradnrie I wus missing in rollege. a sense of belonging to a team, and organi­zation for mv lil'c. 
This ypar f had trained hard. and was very excited about returning to 8Pngal Bouts, only to be disap­pointed in the last week by a shoulder injury that would prPvPnt me from fighting in the Bouts. It wasn't an easy pill to swallow. I remember talking with Brian Caffney about it tlw day I officially had to stop practicing. Brian, who has won three times and knew the thrill I was so desperately seeking, simply and honestly told me, "It's not worth it." It was then that I had finally realized for my self after saying it W others so often that it reallv wasn't worth it. This is an admission of weakness c;n my part, of not fin­ishing something f had started. but also of Betting priorities in life. I realized boxing was not the most important thing in my life. l think back to my high school Senior Prom, Spring Break. moving off cam­pus, and so many other things I thought were the crux of the world at the time. I don't think I'm alone. It was the realization I had to grow up'-in fact that I 
r 


had grown up and just not realized it yet. Not light­ing this year was also one way for me thank my Dad for all he had done for me, if only I had realized it last year, I would have done the right thing then too. 
I am not saying boxing is the best thing anyone can do at Notre Dame or in life. but boxing has to be put in its proper perspective. It is not so big a part of my lifo, rflgardlcss of how many people watch me win in the finals, regardless of the letter jacket I can show off next year, or the overwhelming mass of girls who will swoon over me after I win. Boxing will consist of only 18 vveeks of my entire life: only 111000th of my life already and much less of my whole life. But maybe boxing helped me by getting me in shape. stopping me from drinking during the time I was training, teaching me discipline and control. and most importantly, evp,n if I wasn't conscious of it, my boxing was used as a means to help those in 
-' 
Bangladesh. And that's not so little. The effects of the schools built in Bangladesh will have positive effects -more so than cwnrything boxing may havo given me. Those effects will long outlive me. Isn't them a bit of justke, too, in suckering the money away from the rich and giving it to the poor? Both you and I are being used. Do you feel cheap or dirty? I feel good. 
My mother once asked me, "If you want to raise money for the missions, why doesn't the boxing team all pray the rosary together?" I simply told her, "Mom, no one's gonna pay money to watch us pray the rosary." But if you get a bunch of guys to go in a 
ring and beat each other up, then I'll 
give money to the poor. What does it 
say about you and I that such extremes 
are necessary to get money for the 
poor'? Can you honestly tell me that if 
whoever sold you the ticket had simply 
asked for $10 with nothing in return 
you would have given him the money? 
I'm pretty sure I wouldn't. 
I'm not going to tell you that my sole 
reason for joining the Notre Dame 
Bengal Bouts was for those poor in 
Bangladesh. That would be lying to 
you and to me. Honestly, I had never 
really thought about them, except 
when Tom Suddes or Fr. Bill Seetch 
would talk to us about their visits to 
Bangladesh and the amount of good 
our money was doing. And even then, I 
usually was just glad to be sitting and 
taking a breather, instead of doing 
pushups, sit-ups, or God forbid, arm 
circles! Why did I do Bengal Bouts? 
Why do most of the guys do Bengal 
Bouts? 
Boxing is something different, not everybody wants to do it, or can. It's something most of us have never done before or will ever do again. Yes. there is a lot of testosterone that pumps through us when we admit we arc box­ers, something not exactly lacking on this campus, but there is more than that. There is a personal challenge to see if one can really do it. Can you step in the ring and light against your opponept, knowing that you will get hit, knowing that you will get a bloody lip and probably a bloody nose? That you will probably see stars'? That you may lose in front of all your friends. half of South Bencl, and the reporters from The Observer. and that the next day's back cover may be an excellent photo of you receiving a strong right from your opponent? There is no such thing as an easy win. Every fight is a challenge -physically and mentally.You will see that most fights will be one by the ones who can main­tain control over themselves the best. Herein lies the challenge -control yourself while another is trying to make you lose control. 
Critics may say that we are hiding behind the excuse of the Bangladesh Missions to seem righteous. I think the critics, like all of us, boxers included. should feel ashamed that we do not give more time and money to help oth­ers, and this is one of the best ways to raise money for the poor. I ask that you do not waste your time criticizing those of us who. in our bullheaded, ignorant way, are helping others ­there are more important things to talk and write about. People should look upon the Bengal Bouts as an 
inspiration and question their own presence. ls this the way it should be to raise money for the poor? 
I write this centered around boxing because now I will never be able to think of these things without thinking of boxing. I cannot think of my father \Vith­out thinking of how I wanted to win last year and this year for him -and how that's not \vhat lw would have wanted. I cannot think of my humanity and not be reminded of the surgery on my arm and giving up this year's outs. I cannot organize my life and arrange my priorities without thinking of the poor in the world and how I need to do so much more than I am. 
Daniel Prince Senior, Off-Campus February 23, 1999 

.. 

..,-·-\ 41""'·"'<, 
.=. ~.,:.1);
""'ri:,1­

w E 
. 
D
·-, '. 
~.;..,, 

O 
THE d b
il page 12--~------------BSERVER ---------Fri ay, Fe ruary 26, 1998 
l 
f 
' I 
I 
I 
I 



Now Appearing at Reckers:
i 
i 



0 e 

I I a ' n 


1r0UIRJNAMlEN1r
O 
THE

Friday, February 26, 1999 BSERVER -----~----------a e I 
OR CAJPTA[N. 

U\ McMJllLlJE'N. ::BROK.JEN DRJDS AND 
JEJD [N THJE JL JFOUR~ SHJE JLJEAJDS 
lEAM·TO 

JE[G HTS [N 

MUFFIT MCGRAW IRISH INSIGHT COVERSTOllY 
P.AGE4
PAGEl PAGE3 

Friday, February 26, 1998
page 2 The Observer• IRISH INSIDER 
FOR THE LOVE 
HEAD COACH MUFFET MCGRAW 



OF THE G 

By JOEY CAVATO 
Associate Sports Editor 
It all began as a way to simply stay around something she loves. 
When she looks back at what she's built, Muffet McGraw sees one ofthe best college basketball programs in the coun­try. 
After graduation from Saint Joseph's University with a degree in sociology and leading the basketball team to a 59-12 mark over four years, the options were limited for a young female athlete with a passion for basketball. 
After a brief and successful stint as head coach at Archbishop Carroll High in Philadelphia, an opportunity appeared for Muffet McGraw. 
McGraw played point guard for the California Dreams, a team in the folded women's professional league. 
The league did not last long but her next step would lead to continued great­ness. 

She became an assistant at her alma mater, then earned her first collegiate head coaching assignment at Lehigh University before another opportunityi arose. This one was a golden opportuni­ty for both McGraw and the University of Notre Dame. May 18, 1987 was one of the most sig­nificant days in Notre Dame women's basketball history: It was the day then­athletic director Gene Corrigan hired McGraw. "If we searched for an entire year, I don't think we would fmd anyone better suited for our program," Corrigan said. Twelve years and 258 wins later Corrigan's words still ring true. "I was drawn to Notre Dame by pres­tige, tradition, the reputation of the school," McGraw said. "It has everything that I wanted in a job. It's a great school I. with a pretty small campus in a nice area I and I thought it would be easy to recruit." McGraw's list of accomplishments as head coach are long and distinguished. She has helped to decorate the Joyce Center with NCAA tournament banners, the most notable signifying the 1997 Final Four. Notre Dame's Cinderella run behind 2,000 point scorers Beth Morgan and Katryna Gaither shocked the women's college basketball world. "It gave us instant credibility," McGraw said. "It's kind of a milestone in a coach's life. It gave our whole program a stamp of respectability and credibility. It also gave all of our players that knowledge that yes, we can do it here." 
Perhaps more remarkable than the Final Four run was the program's ability to sustain its success in a trip to the Sweet 16 with a very young, but very tal­ented, squad. 
"I thought it was a greater accomplish­ment than going to the Final Four," McGraw said. "I think that when we went to the Final Four, people thought we were just Katryna Gaither and Beth Morgan and once they were gone we were done. It gave the whole program the sense that we're for real and we're going to be in the top 10 or certainly expect to be in the top 20 every year." 
"That reflects on what a great coach she is," senior captain Sheila McMillen said about last year's run in the NCAA Tournament. "Last year was suppose to be a down year because we were losing two great players. She can tell the per­sonality of the team and ho·..v to handle it and how to get the most out of it." 
"I couldn't believe how much that team grew some that year and how far we went," point guard Niele Ivey said. "She had a lot to do with that. Coach McGraw helped us realize the confidence that we needed for us to do what we had to do. I think we went so far because of the con­fidence she instilled in us." 
McGraw's success has come from more than just her skills with a clip­board. Her passion for the game and developing the coach-player relationship · help to make her program what it is. 
"You can tell that she loves coaching by how she is on the sidelines," McMillen said. "That carries over to the players on the floor." 
"I wanted to go to a program that reminded me of home and my family," Ivey said. "When I meet her, I felt like I was going to develop that kind of close relationship with her that I had with my previous coaches and my mom. She's a real personable coach; a very under­standing and caring coach. Regardless of athletics, it seems that she really cared about my success here as a person besides an athlete and that's what con­vinced me to come here." 
With success comes greater opportuni­ty. 
After Notre Dame's Final Four run in McGraw's 10th season she heard the opportunity knocking. 
South Carolina expressed interest in McGraw and she briefly entertained the idea with an interview. 
"I think after 10 years I kind of thought maybe I should go somewhere else, maybe it was time for a change, " 

i 
i 
i 
!I 

The Observer/Jeff Hsu Junior center Julie Henderson will see quality minutes off the bench for Muffet McGraw's squad. 

McGraw said. "It was a great year and it was a good time to move on because a lot of peo­ple were graduat­ing. I had things going on and I wanted to test the market and see what was out there." 
"I don't think I had any intention of taking it as far as it went," she continued. "I don't really know why I went on the interview. Ijust went to see what they had and to compare to what we had at Notre Dame. I real­ized the whole time while I was there I never wanted to go anywhere else. There's not another college town in the country that appeals to me because I think Notre Dame is the pin­nacle. I think it's the best job in America." 

McGraw's decision to stay at Notre Dame rein­forced her dedication to her the program and her players. 
The Irish just finished their best regular season ever and are eyeing their ·"··.·..
first Big East tournament f championship. 4 
"She puts so much time and energy into everything we do," Ivey said. "Everything we do is a reflection upon her and I think that's why she's a really good coach. She cares so much about us. She wants us to succeed so much and puts so much effort and energy to it. I think that's what makes her really special." 
That has made Notre Dame women's basketball really special too. 
1998-99 IRISH SCHEDULE/RESULTS 
NOVEMBER WED. 4 VISBY-SWEDEN WED. 11 ESTONIA SAT. 14 UCLA WED. 18 AT BUTLER SAT. 21 DUKE TUES. 24 ILLINOIS SAT. 2 FRANC I Sw··u,15;,~ 
JA 
SAT. 2 TUES. 2 SAT. 3 

FEBRUARY WED. 3 BOSTON COLLEGE SAT. 6 SETON HALL WED. 10 AT VILLANOVA SAT. 13 AT RUTGERS WED. 17 SYRACUSE SAT. 20 AT WEST VIRGINIA TUES. 23 MIAMI 
w, 111-82 
w, 88-37 w, 99-82 w, 71-60 
w, 84-57 w, 102-92 -43 
: ::~·,. ;-'.:-... 
'" 
99-60 
94-61 
97-56 
w, 74-59 w, 77-49 W, 74-52 L, 77-57 w, 82-60 w, 89-54 w, 89-62 


Friday, February 26, 1999 The Observer• IRISH INSIDER page 3 
¦ IRISH INSIGHT 
Irish search for first-ever Big East title 


By ANTHONY BIANCO 
Assistant Sports Editor 
The shot is open for the Irish to take, and landing it means more than winning another game. 
Actually, Notre Dame will need to win its next three games before it can score the biggest victory of the season. With coach Muffet McGraw at the helm, the Irish have been able to tear their way through the NCAA championships, including a run to the Final Four. But the team has yet to pick up a Big East tournament title. 
That third win has eluded the Irish in the past three sea­sons. And every time, the blow has come from Connecticut. 
In fact, the Irish have never defeated Connecticut, losing all nine meetings. On paper, McGraw's task this season seems all the more improba­ble with No. 7 Rutgers in the mix of teams with shots at the title. 
But basketball is played on the hardwood, and the Irish know that now's their chance to steal a piece of the show. 
The Big East has never been as open for any team to take as it is now. Connecticut's perch above the conference has eroded while a handful of teams have quickly built high­level programs. 
The Huskies 17-1 record this season was only good enough to tie them for first place as they shared the regu­
lar-season conference crown, 
the only time they have had to 
share the title since it began 
the streak in the 1993-94 sea­
son. 
That loss for the Huskies didn't come against No. 10 Notre Dame or Rutgers, but against Boston College. The Eagles (20-6, 12-6) have also done their best to make the top half of the conference a scramble for first. 
With such a talented pool at the top to assure Connecticut won't be able to cruise to another title, the Irish have their best-ever shot to play spoiler. 
"I think the Big East tourna­ment is really up for grabs," said Miami coach Ferne Labati after her team finished the regular season at Notre Dame Tuesday. "It's going to be a wild tournament." 
\Vild is exactly the setting the Irish need to pull off a magical run to the top. When even the seventh-seeded Hurricanes have hopes of making an effort for the championship, then a team like Notre Dame should be able to play like champions too. 
And they have, by rebound­ing after losses and persever­ing for conference contention. The key now is to rebound from the losses in head-to­head matchups with Connecticut and Rutgers. 
"So far I think we are living up to the expectations we had," said team captain Sheila McMillen. "Early on in the 
No. 1 Connecticut 
Starting the season on top of the polls and virtually untouched in the Big East, the Huskies had a rough sec­ond half for a team that only lost one game all last sea­son. After losses to Tennessee and Louisiana Tech., Boston College proved that it is not invincible in the BigEast. With five players earning double-digit points-per­game averages in the conference, and Paige Sauer, Svetlana Abrosimova. and Shea Ralph all earning con­ference player-of-the-week honors, Connecticut has the muscle to blast through the tournament. 
No. 2 Rutgers 
Tying Connecticut for the conference regular-season crown, Rutger's 17-1 mark not only landed it a No. 2 seed heading into the tournament, but also a ranking of seventh in the nation. The Scarlet Knights pose one of the strongest defenses in the nation. Leading the way will be Tammy Sutton-Brown in the paint and Shawnetta Stewart in the backcourt. Their defense can give them the springboard to bounce to the title. 
No. 3 Notre Dame 
Wielding one of the most varied offenses in the con­ference, the Irish have counted on a number of scorers to drop the ball this season. The biggest problem is the defense has failed in the three conference losses. Notre Dame will need to focus on the defense in order to handle teams like Connecticut, Rutgers and Boston College and have a shot at the championship. 
No. 4 Boston College 
The first team without a first round bye, the Eagleshave recorded their first-ever 20-win season. Alissa Murphy has been the team's most consistent, with 
15.8 points per game. With two wins against lower­ranked opponents in the first and quarterfinals,Boston College could find itself in the semis against Connecticut. 
season, we beat the teams we wanted to beat. but we've also lost a couple of games that we probably shouldn't have. I think the key thing from that is that we rebounded after those losses. Now it's time to turn our focus onto the tour­nament. This is like a second season for us." 
The Irish beat themselves in both of those losses by allow­ing the opposition to dictate the game's momemtum. 
"Run and gun" might be Connectitcut's style and a stiffling slow-paced game might be in Rutgers game plan, but neither can over­power McGraw's team when it sticks to its game. 

Though they continue to concentrate on the defense, the Irish have grabbed much attention for their attack. 
When on its game, it is basi­cally unstoppable. 
The threat can come from McMillen downtown as likely as 6-foot-4 center Ruth Riley from under the rim and every­thing in between. This team's depth is so great, that McGraw is certain a Big East run is only the beginning and 
likens it to the 1997 Final 
Four team: 
"I think they are two differ­ent teams," she said. "The Final Four team, I think you could shut us down by shut­ting down a couple of players, but this team you can't key on just one or two players, because the other three will step up. That's what makes us real tough to stop." 
When the shot is open for the taking, it's difficult to stop the scoreboard from lighting up. 


Notre Dame v. Boston College, Feb. 3, 1999 
page 4 The Observer• IRISH INSIDER Friday, February 26, 1999 

CAPTAIN SHEILA MCMILLEN ENJOYS A SENSATIONAL SENIOR SEASON 
By BRIAN KESSLER records and b'ecame the cess. The lone Irish captain is Assistant Sports Editor school's all-time leader for enjoying an outstanding three-pointers made (235). senior season and has provid­
Growing up on a farm in "It's quite an honor to be ed invaluable leadership for Rochester, Ind., few would mentioned with Morgan," said the young squad. have thought that Sheila McMillen. "I played under her "Sheila has had a tremen­McMillen would make her liv­for two years and she's a great dous season,.. head coach ing downtown. player, so it's definitely an Muffet McGraw said. "I think 
The senior captain, howev­honor. the biggest thing she's done er, has done just that. "Those records are some­for us this year is her leader­
McMillen already holds the thing I'll be able to enjoy ship and poise. She always single-season Irish record for when the season and my brings her game and comes three-pointers made {84) and career are over," McMillen out ready to play. We can has entered her name into the continued. "Right now, I'm count on her and we know Notre Dame record books for just focusing on our team's exactly what we are going to a second time this season. success." get out of her every single Most recently, she eclipsed McMillen has been an inte­night." another of Beth Morgan's gral part of the that team sue-In her senior campaign, 
McMillen is averaging 15.8 points per game, ranking her eighth in conference scoring. She has turned in a team-high 10 20-point performances and pulled down a career-high eight rebounds on three sepa­rate occasions. She is also third in the nation in three­point field goals per game. averaging 3.1 per contest. 
"I think she's improved a lot," said McGraw. "She's come up big in every game for us and she's played so well for us all season long. She's prob­ably been the mainstay on our down the conference's best earlier this season. "I went to 

team and definitely the person 

zone defenses. basketball camp here and I 
we can count on the most dur­
"People say I have a knuckle fell in love with the place."
ing the year." 

ball rotation, but I just focus Irish fans have also fallen in 
McGraw is not the only 

on the quick release and get­love with her and her pres~
coach to praise McMillen. 

ting the shot off," McMillen ence on the court will surely
Following the Irish's victory 

said. be missed next season. 
over the Hurricanes on 

She made that shot famous As for now, the senior is
Tuesday night, Miami head 

in the first round of last year's looking forward to a success­
coach Ferne Labati lauded the 

Big East championship when ful postseason. 
three-point specialist. 

she lit up St. John's for a tour­"I think I'm pretty loose
"I think McMillen is a great 

nament and school-record going in," McMillen said. 'Tm
player," Labati said. "She has 

eight three-pointers at the having a lot of fun and that's 
a really quick release, but the 

Louis Brown Athletic Center. the key I think now, especially 
greatest thing of all is that she 

'Tm looking forward to going into th NCAA tourna­
shoots so well off that pass 

playing there," said McMillen. ment, knowing that any game
and has a really pretty shot. 

"Shooters have their favorite could be my last. I'm going to
She's improved a lot and 

gyms and I'm not sure what it enjoy tournament time."
worked awfully hard. She was 

is about it, but I feel really Notre Dame's first-ever Big

a great player coming out of 

comfortable there." East championship would
high school, but I think she's 

McMiHen also felt comfort­make tournament time that
worked hard to improve the 

able in an Irish uniform. much more enjoyable for
quickness-of her shot and the 

"Being so close, I grew up McMillen, who was a member
confidence of her shot." 

with Notre Dame," said of the 1997 Final Four team. 
The Observer/Kevin .alum 
McMillen's distinct no-rota­

Guard Sheila McMillan has surpassed Beth Morgan and now holds the McMillen, who was named to The Irish will be tough to
tion shot has given opposing

Irish records for most single-seaon and career three-pointers. the Successful Farming All­stop if McMillen gets it going
coaches fits and even broken 

American basketball team from downtown. 


'., 
Piscataway, New Jersey 

The Observer/Kevin Datum 
The Irish bench will play a key role in the fate of the women in this year's Big East Tournament. Notre Dame's balaned attack and depth will give them an advantage heading into the postseason. 





w E 
certeN D 
O
THE

Friday, February 26, 1998 ---------------------page 13
BSERVER 

Versatile comic looks to make his mark on the entertainment world 
Special to The Observer . 

.J. Jamal is perhaps one of come­
dy's hardest working comedians, 
having conquered internationally 

the territories of television, film, con­certs, colleges and comedy clubs with his captivating style.With credits that include "Vibe-TV," "Keenan,' and "The Tonight Show," the comedian also served as host of his own show, the ACE nominated, "Comic Justice" which still airs on the Comedy Central net­work. Many remember·Jamal from his early days. as part of the comedic core of "[n Living Sing!,~." 
lie has worked in venues from Radio City Music Ilall to Caesar's Palace, and performed in concert with a bevy of top rncording artists. including Diana Hoss, Aretha Franklin, Cher and Kenny Loggins. llis enchanting G-rated pcr­sona has been captured on the screens of' "The Arsenio Hall Show," "Comic Strip Live." A&E's "An Evening at the Im prov." and "Def' Comedy Jam." He has also served as the host of "Comedy in t lw Caribbean." for th c Arts & Entcirtainment Network.
Th£{ Cheapest A1ovie Ever l'vfade, how­ever, is Jamal's greatest venture to datn. Adding filmmaker to his list of accomplishments_, A.J. recently vvrapped up production on the movie, a vehicle which he dirPcts, produces and stars in. A laboryf lo':<~. laughs and not dollars, The Clwapest i\4ovie Ever /Hade is a madcap whirlwind adventure. It s ta rs fi Im v (! te r a n Ar t Ev a n s ( /Ji e /lard). Garrett Morris ("Saturday Night Live"), and Tiny "Zeus" Lester (Fifth Flenwn/l. 
A former IBM computer engineer, Jamal's analytical aproach and percep­tive range is brilliantly parlayed into a comic vision that evokes laughter the 

Aft e r 
moment he touches the stage. He pos­sesses a theatrical gif't and versatility that is evidenced in his every move, whether he is impersonating a wide range of characters or simply recalling 

Be n g a Bou t s 
some hilarious facet of human nature. 
Jamal has consistently demonstrated that he is more than simply a funny­man of comedy. As the host of "Comic Justice," Jamal broke comedic ground, I presenting us with images that ran the 



Catch A.I.
gamut of enterainment to information. A fun paced, urban showcase, "Comic I 
1 

l Jam·al
Justice" spotlighted ethnic humor while 1
incorporating stand-up and sketch comedv. as well as celebritv interviews. Arseni'o Hall, Reverend Jesse Jackson and Sinbad are only a sample of the 'I personalities who have been inter-
I 
vi~~fif'lz/~;:~:~:/t;;o:~i;~erMade, 


perform1•n· I 11·ve1.l
Jamal once again presents us the opportunity to glimpse his comedic genius at its best. The movie details the trials of a young filmmaker, Sherlock 
(Jamal), and how he is involves the 

I R k ,
help of his homies to produce his 

a ec er s
screenplay, entitled, "The Final Exit ­008," the story of the first black James 

l
Bond. The lively spoof incorporates 

I 
I
action. thrills and suspense. Jamal is on a career path that is con­I tinually expanding. And as• long as ,. ·-.1J. 
·T 0 n I g h t a t 1
comedy continues to be one of Americas favorite pasttimcs, A.J. Jamal I I I I will rnmain in the forefront. A prolific I 
I I
talent, he is fast on his way to becom­m I d n I g h t ing a comedy legend. I
Il I 
1 
> 

I I 1 I I I I I I I 
L 

I 
\ . ... 
. t :#"'~..,.~~­
' -,,_ •..:, -~& 

I 
I 
I I 
I 
• I 
c.. I 
I 
I 

I
The Observer/Michelle Keefe 

Tonight Reeker's will play host to comedian A.J. Jamal, who has appeared on The Tonight Show, The Arsenic Hall Show, Def Comedy Jam and has hosted his own program. Jamal is I now wrapping up production of The Cheapest Movie Ever Made. Catch his act after the Bengal Bouts Finals. 
2...p.....!ag:'....e_I_4______________________T_h_e_0_b_s_er_v_e_r•_SP=-=O=-::...::..::RT::.....:S=-----,.....-::__-_:_-::__-::__-_-::__-::__-_-_-_-_-::__-::__-::__-_-::__-:._-:._-::__-_-::__-::__-_-_-_-:._-:._F_r__id~a-y__'-:...F_e~b-r_L_1_a~r-y__ 2 __ 6-:...,-::__l_9~9~9 
¦ NHL 

Straka Czechs Avalanche 
Associated Press 
DENVEH 
7\1artin Straka redeemed hirn­sPlf aftPr missing a wide-oppn net less than two minutes earli­Pr, scoring the go-ahead goal with just 2:56 remaining as the Pittsburgh Penguins rallied for a 3-2 victory over the Colorado Avalanclrn. 
Straka tallied his 12th goal in the third period this season when he took a pass in the slot from Alexei Kovalev and one­timed the puck past goaltender Craig Billington. 
Straka had a chance to give the Penguins the lead with 4 1/2 minutes remaining, but deflect­ed the puck wide after receiving a perfect feed from Kovalev in front. 
The loss extended Colorado's winless strnak to seven games 10-3-4) and snapped a string in which the Avalanche had played a franchise-record four straight ties. Jaromir Jagr, the NHL's leading scorer, snapped out of a mini-slump, scoring his 28th goal just 62 seconds into the third period to pull the Penguins into a 2-2 tie. 
Jagr, who has 88 points, had not scored in his previous four games, managing just one assist with a plus-minus rating of minus-3 in the last three con­tests. 
No. 1 goalie Patrick Roy 
missed his second straight game 
with a groin injury for Colorado, 
which missed a chance to tie 
Detroit for the No. 2 seed in the 
Western Conference. 
The Avalanche grabbed a 2-1 
lead on second-period goals by 
Joe Sakic and Milan Hejduk. 
Alexei Morozov tallied in the 
first stanza for the Penguins. 
Boston 3. New Jersey 3 
Cameron Mann again showed 
his flair for the dramatic 
Thursday night as his third­
period goal lifted the Boston 
Bruins to a 3-3 tie with the New 
Jersey Devils. 
All of Mann's four goals, 
scored in the last three games, 
have been instrumental in 
Bruins wins or ties. Thursday 
he found the net on a shot from the point with 1:41 to go. . 
Jason Arnott got t\vo goals in the third period for the Devils.. Ilis first came at 2:15 when he poked in a loose puck that was lying in the crease. It gave the Devils a 2-1 lead. 
Arnott followed that with his 15th goal of the season after taking a pass across the crease from Petr Sykora. The goal put the Devils on top 3-2. 
Hay Bourque had tied the game 2-2 with his sixth goal of the season and second in the last three games. Bourque's shot from right of the net deflected off the skate of Ken Daneyko into the goal. 
Byron Dafoe (18-19-8) stopped 36 shots. but Boston is winless (0-7-3) in the last 10 matches against New Jersey. 
The Devils lead the NHL with 19 wins on the road. They are 6-1-1 in their last eight road games. 
Brian Rolston's 18th goal, on a shot from the point, gave the Devils a 1-0 lead in the first period. 
Jason Allison tied it with his 17th goal midway in the second period. 
Toronto 4. New York Islanders 1 
Glenn Ifoaly turned aside 27 shots and four players scored as the Toronto Maple Leafs beat the New York Islanders 4-1 on Thursday night. 
Mats Sundin, Sergei Berezin, Tomas Kaberle and Tie Domi scored for Toronto, which sur­passed last year's overall point total. The Leafs have 71 points after 58 games; they managed only 69 points last season. 
New York's only goal was by Ted Donato. Tommy Salo stopped 18 shots in New York's second straight loss after a four-game unbeaten streak (2­0-2). 
The matchup marked the 
return of former Islanders 
defenseman Bryan Berard in his 
first game against his ex-team­
mates since being traded for 
goalie Felix Potvin on Jan. 9. 
Potvin reinjured his groin dur­ing practice on Wednesday and is out 4-6 weeks. Berard was held scoreless. 
Toronto scored twice in the last half-minute of the opening period. 
Sundin finished off a rush with Steve Sullivan by tapping Sullivan·s cross-ice pass past Salo with 26.4 seconds left in the period. Salo then misplayed Berezin's left side slap shot as it squirted between his pads with 
8.9 seconds remaining. 
New York got on the board with just its fourth power-play goal in the last 51 attempts. Donato sent a slap shot from the point through a bunch of bodies and past Healy at 5:29.. 
The Maple Leafs got that right back when Kaberle picked up the puck after his initial shot was blocked and sent a screened shot between Salo's pads. Dami scored at 15:28 when he came out of the penal­ty box and got a breakaway pass from Mike Johnson. Domi's in-close backhander rolled over Salo's pad and in. 

Healy, a former Islander, was sharp when he had to be, par­ticularly against star forward Zigmund Palffy. Healy turned aside at least four good scoring chances by Palffy. 
Ottawa 3, Canadiens 1 

Andreas Johansson scored twice as the Ottawa Senators moved to the top or the Eastern Conference with a 3-1 win over the Montreal Canadiens on Thursday night. 
Johansson broke a 13-game scoring slump with his 18th and 19th goals as Ottawa (33-17-8) moved one point ahead of the idle Philadelphia Flyers for top spot in the East and second place overall in the NHL. 
But Johansson hobbled off the 
ice with an apparent left knee 
injury with less than 30 seconds 
to play in the game. 

Alexei Yashin added a goal in the third period. 
Ottawa set a franchise record 
with its 19th home victory of the 
season, surpassing tlrn 18 of last 
season. The Senators are 
unbm1ten in five games. 
¦ NHL 

Hasek eager to dominate again 
Associated Press 
BUFFALO, N.Y. 
Even machines break down, and Buffalo Sabres· goalie Dominik Ha.'iek proved it when he injured his groin in a loss to Toronto last week. 
"I always want to be on the ice, but I cannot be on the ice if I am not healthy or my groin is not good enough," said Hasek, who could be back practicing with the team today after missing three games. "I have to be careful." 
Hasek has been so good for so long the Sabres sometimes take the two-time NHL Most Valuable Player for granted. 
"Sometimes we get used to him making great saves," defenseman Darryl Sh3;nnon said. "But we don't have .it in our heads that we don't have to play well because he's not back there." 
With just a few exceptions this season, Hasek has been his usual dependable self. That means he also occasion­ally has been brilliant. 
"He usually doesn't give up more than two goals,'' Sabres coach Lindy Ruff said. "In the beginning of the season when we really didn't play well as a team, he fiHed the holes in a couple of games where we gave up 20 to 30 scoring chances." 
Ruff said Hasek might play at Edmonton on Friday. At that point..the goalie could be suffering more from h9rf!dom than anything. ' 
''I don't think he ever admits he needs a rest," Ruff said. "That's the kind of thing where I have to start stepping in and just give him a rest even when he doesn't want it." Which is never. 
"He likes to play, he likes to work," Ruff said. "With today's schedule, it's the mental part of the game that wears a player down most." 

Until sidelined by injury, Hasek had started all but three of the Sabres' 55 games and faced 1,553 shots, second most in the league. 
Dwayne Roloson had made only three starts when Hasek was injured. He stopped :lO shots in a 4~2 victory over San Jose and made 34 saves in a 4~4 tie with defending league champion Detroit on Sunday; 
Hasek, who led the league in save percentage each of the past five seasons and won the Hart Trophy the past two seasons as the NHL's most valuable player, has raised a lofty standard. 
"He's the best goalie in the world right now and I'll just learn whatever I can from him and hope that things work out." Roloson said. 
Roloson knows he's no Hasek. But at times this sea­son, even Hasek hasn't been himself. 
Hasek was starting to show signs of wear after playing his sharpest hockey at the beginning of the season. The NHL named him its player or the month for December, when he had a 1.45 goals­against average and four shutouts. 
But New Jersey chased Hasek early in the second period of a 7-4 victory on Dec. 28. The Devils scored goals on their first three shots and four goals on six shots, . . .. .. , , . , 
After losing an overtime game to Anaheim two nights later, Hasek gavt) up seven· goals on 31 shots in a 7-2 loss to Anaheim on New Year's Day. Roloson got his first two starts soon after. 
As Buffalo struggled earlier this month. Hasek criticized the team for what he identi­fied as a lack of effort. He didn't name any names, but his te(fmmates got the point. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds musr be prepaid. .
Classifieds 

I 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, _including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe nghc to cdH all classifieds for conrent without issuing retunds. 
Counselors, Waterfront, Instructors MONTH/PERSON Receiving: 631-FAX1 THE FLORIDA EVANS 
Call 234-6445. 

NOTICES for Nature/Arts & 232-2595 SHOWBAND AND REVUE Crafls/Recreation/Canoeing/Kayaki When you need copies ... ALI SABA'S TAHINI ng,Nurses.Therapists,Fo~d We're OPEN!!! THE BUTTERFLY EFFECT 
~S-pr-in_g_B-re_a_k_Pa_n_a_m_a_C-ity___ 
I WANTED 

Service.and Auxiliary.Must be BED 'N BREAKFAST JOSIE VODICKA $129!Boardwalk Room w/Kitchen . enthusiastic.responsible.and love REGISTRY THE COPY SHOP Next To Clubs!? Parties!Daytona CRUISE SHIP EMPLOYMENT children.June 13 through August 8. 219-291-7153 LaFortune Student Center And more, for $5 at the big art $149!South Beach $129!Cocoa Workers earn up to Salary.room & board.and 631-COPY building party at RILEY. This Beach $149' $2,000+imonth (w/tips & bene-experience of lifetime provided.Call FLORIDA SPRING BREAK Saturday. springbreaktravel.com fits).World Travel!Land-Tour jobs up or wnte for application and informa­Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight 1-800-678-6386 to $5,000-$7,000/summer.Ask us tion. Bay Health Camp, SANDPIPER-BEACON BEACH Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm 
how! 310 W. Washington.Suite RESORT PANAMA CITY BEACH Sat: Noon-6:00pm Oh, I've wasted my life. GET THE HECK OUT OF HERE! 517-336-4235 Ext.C55842 300,Marquette,MI 49855, FLORIDA FROM S159 PER PER· Sun: Noon-Midnight Mexico.the Caribbean or Jamaica (906)228-5770,e-mail SON " Die, henrieta, die. S250 r/t.Other worldwide destina­SUMMER CAMP JOBS BayCliffHC@aol.com 3 POOLS 1 INDOOR POOULAZY tions cheap.Book tickets on line LAND/WATER SPORTS RIVER RIDE HUGE BEACHSIDE •• ATTENTION LESBIAN, GAY, I beat Heather Cocks! I beat www.airtech.com or (212)219-7000. ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS/ Accounting Students1 Earn cash HOTTUB SUITES UP TO 10 PEO­BISEXUAL AND QUESTIONING Heather Cocks! 
LAKE PLACID and a free CPA exam review PLE FREE INFO 1-800-488-8828 STUDENTS •• Original student How Green is Green? VISIT US www.raquettelake.com course.Be a campus rep for WWW.SANDPIPERBEACON.COM group will hold support meeting Now I am an OFFICIAL member oi 
1-800-786-8373 CPAexcel,the course that makes TONIGHT. Call info line for details ed board!!!! Work in Ireland on a Student passing the exam easier. 2 Bdrm. Apt. at College Park avail· 236-9661. Work Abroad Program and find out! Visit www.cpaexcel.com or call toll­able to sublease for summer ses­Wanted: 1 date for the Cavanaugh 
BOYS & GIRLS CLUB NEEDS free 888-884-5669. sion. Call 4-3620. UMPHREY'S McGEE offers its sin­Snowball. Call 1-888-Council and ask for VOLUNTEER B-BALL cere apologies to those who were Tom. COACHES! HELP WANTED: planning on attending tonight's Knute Rockne. All American 
Season runs 3-99 to 5-7-99 RETAIL SALES 3 BDRM. DUPLEX, show at SENIOR BAR. As you CANCUN. BAHAMAS Call 232-2048 for more info New store in U.P. Mall REMODELED. 501 EDDY ST. might guess with the above pref­Tim Logan, watch your mouth. PANAMA CITY 1 Full,2 Part-time needed 1 Ml. FROM CAMPUS.APPL!· ace, what we're trying to say is that Get FREE PARTIES with USA PERFECT JOB FOR Flexible hours.good pay ANCES. W/D. the gig has been cancelled. By the time you read this, I'll be m Spring Break! STUDENT SPOUSE/S.O. Call now (419)233-1325 273-8332. L.A. Call 1-888-777-4642 to book ND Prof &'his professional W~1ile we have little compensation your trip today! wile seek childcare provider to offer, please forgive us as our Turner-Drive By-Show your pie-Feel in their house for 2 preschool Highly responsible.creative student sponsor backed out-we had no good-Love Givas and Hoser 
FOR SALE 
children. Hours, transp., needed to care for 2 year old girl in control. Thanks for your under­benefits & wages negotiable Notre Dame 89mazda rx7 $5300 mustsell standing. God bless. Good Luck Jen 
(approx. 30 hrs/wk). If professor"s h0me.Flex1bte like new. 2888701 

interested, please call hours.Transportation required.Call Mike its time to leave, wake up!-MK Lost: Spiderman Folder and assign­631-7345. 287-7483 NEW Rates Phone Cards ment notebook. If found please call But aquaman. you can not marry a No one understands what Jose and 0992. SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: woman without gills, Alicia are talking about, ignore them 
Make a difference in the life of a Your from two different 
ILOST & FOUND I 

.___F_O_R_RE_N_T_........l 1~2 m;;;;'~~:L
Beanie Baby-Found Feb. 15th child!Summer therapy camp for WOOOORRRLLDDSS! Next week we see Steve and Janet 
between South Dining Hall and the handicapped children.Located on WALK TO SCHOOL . move in with one another. Also, K of C. (It looks new so I'm assum­shore of Lake Superior near Big 2-6 BEDROOM Fax it fast at THE COPY SHOP in Don't miss Dylan and Kelly get it on. Donna ing that it's someone's V-day gift.) Bay,MLPositons available for STARTING $185 LaFortune. FAX Sending and and David??? Tune in and see 
Friday, February 26, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 15 
¦ MEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL 


Lewis leads Gophers to victory 
Ifyou are a strong leader who believes in experiential learning .... 
Apply to be an ELC Officer 

Applications 
CENTER FOR 
SOC 1· AL

at the CSC 
CONCERNS 

MAKE HEAlTHY CHOICES 
You don·t have to be drunk to be Impaired. 11 vou are driving. there Is onlv one choice... 
NO AlCOHOl AT All. 
Never ride with a driver who has been drinkinu...lind a sale wav home. 
For information, contact Alcohol & Drug Education 311 LaFortune phone 631-7970 e-mail ND.aldrug.1@nd.edu 
The Gophers finished 6-2 at home in the conference, but they are just 1-6 on the road with Saturday's regular-season finale at Northwestern coming up. 
Purdue (19-10, 7-8) trailed only 31-29 at the half, but shot 5-for-20 in the second half. The Boilermakers also committed 10 of their 18 turnovers in the sec­ond half while the Gophers turned the ball over just four times after the break and 10 times for the night. 
Jaraan Cornell led the Boilermakers with 16 points and Brian Cardinal added 10. Purdue finishes the regular sea­son at home Sunday against conference champion Michigan State. 
It was just the third win for Minnesota in the last 13 games against Purdue. Gophers coach Clem Haskins improved to 7-20 against Purdue's Gene Keady, his former mentor at \Vestern Kentucky. 
The game was tied 39-39 when Cardinal scored on a tip-in with 12:28 left, but the Boilermakers missed five of their next 12 shol<; as Minnesota used an 16-5 run to open a 55­44 lead with 4:41 left. 
Two freshmen, Joel Przybilla and walk-on Dusty Hychart, sparked the Gophers' run. 
Przybilla started the run with a jumper. and he later scored on an alley-oop pass from Hychart and fed Lewis for a 3-pointer. Rychart capped the run with a steal and a baseline jumper to make it 50-42. 
Greg McQuay scored for Purdue to make it 50-44, but Lewis answered with a 3-pointer and a jumper. The 3-pointer came after Hychart knocked a 
rebound out to Lewis, and the jumper came off a pass from Przybilla to give the Gophers their biggest lead of the night to that point. 

¦ MAJOR LEAGUE 8ASEBAU 


Recovering Strawberry may extend spring stay 
Associated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. 

Darryl Strawberry's come­back from cancer may take a little bit longer. 
..It would not surprise me at all that by the time we' re ready to leave, he would not be physically ready," Ncw York Yankees manager Joe Torre said Thursday. "I could be wrong, but again. if he needs another week or what­ever it is, that's the most important thing to make sure he gets ready." 
Strawberry, one of four left­field candidates, underwent colon cancer surgery last October. He had a second procedure in January to remove scar tissue and will undergo chemotherapy once a week through at leastAprlL 
Also of concern is Strawberry's previously injured left knee, which has slowed him the past several years. 
The two recent surgeries prevented Strawberry from his offseason running pro­gram. affecting his overall conditioning program. 
"I want to be ready by open­ing day. We•n see how things work out." Strawberry said. ''If they work out fine, if they don't, fine. That's the way I look at it." 
Both Torre and Strawberry agree that the most important thing is avoiding any setbacks. 
'Tm getting there. That's the key -I'm not going back­wards," Strawberry said. "I think that's the whole key 
Joe's lookingfor. ••. 
Strawberry. who plans on beginning a light running pro­gram next week, will not play in the early exhibition games. Torre also indicated Strawberry may not make an outfield appearance until late in spring training. 
"I'm not concerned about his playing the outfield until he's ready to physically. It may turn out to the last two or three games of spring train­ing. if then," Torre said. "He feels better today than he has the last couple days in the fatigue area." 
The Yankees went through a 
'I'MGETIING THERE. THATS THE KEY -I'M NOT GOING BACKWARDS.' 
DARRYL STRAWBERRY 
YANKEES OUTFIELDER 
second day of live batting practice Thursday. 
Among pitchers throwing were Mariano Rivera, Jeff Nelson. Darren Holmes and Mike Stanton, None reported any problems after their 10­minute sessions. 
Andy Pettitte will likely throw batting practice on Saturday. The left-hander 
· experienced throwing elbow tenderness following a. bullpen session Monday. "I hadn't thrown off the mound. My elbow was just a little tender[afterwards] and I just wanted to make sure," Pettitte said. "Everything is all 
right.., 
After not working out Wednesday, Pettitte took part in long toss drills Thursday. 

Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS 

Minnesota continued its Jekyll­and-Hydc season Thursday night. rebounding from Tuesday's poor perf'ormance at PurduP for a r.rucial 62-48 vir.to­ry over tlw Boilermakers INo. 22 ESPN/l.iSJ\ Today, No. 23 AP). 
Big Ten sroring lnadiff Quincy Lewis had 27 points to lt><td the Golden Goph('rs INo. 25 ESPN/USA Today. Un ran kcd APL who badlv needed the victo­ry to keep their NCAA tourna­ment hopr.s alive after dropping four of their previous five games. 
That included Tuesday's 54-42 loss at Purdue in a makeup of a game postponed by bad weather last month. The Gophers (16-9. 7-8 Big Ten) committed a sea­son-high 25 turnovers in that loss, and also set season lows for points and field goals. 
Lewis also had a season-low 13 points in that game. but he matched that bv halftime Thursdav. After sh;)()ting 5-for­12 at Pu~d ue. Lewis was 1O-fcir­19 and added 10 rebounds in the last home Big Ten game of his career. 
Kevin Clark, another of Minnesota's four seniors, scored 16 points. 
Business Majors: 

Internships available to work with 
ACCr•M 

a micro-lending organization assisting people with no credit history to obtain loans and build their businesses. 
This is a 10-12 week program during the summer, offering: 
* 
up to $2,500.00 tuition scholarship (with housing provided) 

* 
3 academic credits -(elective) 



Available in 6 cities: Albuquerque, Chicago, El Paso, New York City, San Antonio, and San Diego 
• • Applications available at the Center for Social Concerns -due February 26th 
Interviews: March 2nd at the CSC with a representative from ACCION 


The Observer• SPORTS Friday, February 26, 1999 
cency on the part of Notre Dame. The chance for revenge, 


Fencing 
however. will keep the Irish focused.
continued from page 24 
..I think it is lucky that we did 
42. Jarkson's 173 career Ppee lose those two meets," Mustilli wins place him second in said. "Now we are out for career epeP wins in Notre revenge. It has been easy in the Dame history. past to just sit back, but I think 
The men's sabre and foil that this year we will definitely team should have no trouble step it up because of the 
l' t ..
with any of the competition this revenge 1ac or. weekend. The team competitions will 
Charles IJayes rejoins the foil be held on Saturday. The team this weekend after miss­drama, however, does not end ing last week's competition on Saturdav. The individual while attending Junior Parents' competitio~ on Sunday Weekend. Fn•shman Steven inr.ludes not only more revenge 
Mautone who leads the team in match-ups. but also the added 
vidories after picking up 16 excitement of teammates fac­
\Vins last weekend and captain ing teammates. 
Stcpharn~ Auriol who won the The women·s foil competition 1998 Midwest foil title will sho.uld provide some of the 
combine to form a lethal ombi­most excitement of the week­
nation. end. Walsh will compete with 

r 
The sabre team \Viii be with­two-time Ohio State All­
I 
out the services of freshman American Yelena Kalkina for Andre Crompton again this the Midwest foil title. The two weekend. Crompton will be have met twice this season competing at a Junior World with \Valsh winning the first \ 
Cup circuit in Montreal. He has meeting and Kalkina taking the 
a chance to make the World second. Championship team and needs Walsh will also receive stiff to do well at this meet to pick competition from her team­
up points. mates. Paulina and Brown. 
\Vhile Crompton is an Another battle of teammates extremely talented fencer, the to watch on the women's side tremendous talent and depth of is the clash between all­the sabre squad should be able American epeeists Mustilli and to overcome his absence. All-Krol. 
American captain Luke "It is a pretty neat opportuni­LaValle, senior Stephen ty because Magda and I don't 

Junior Dominic Guarnaschelli {right) and the epee squad will seek revenge against Lawrence University at
Mc()uadr and freshman Gabor get to fencf' each other a lot," 

the Midwest Championships this weekend at the Joyce Center. 
Szelle are all capable of defeat­Mustilli said. "The individuals ing anyone in thP Midwest. give me an opportunity to face teammates. as he looks to for the senior captain. and talented nPw cornPrs. 
"On the men's side I don't see Magda and other top fencers." defend his 1998 Midwest foil The epee and sabre competi­Casas should provide a tough anyone who can challenge Auriol will also be facing title. Hayes and Mautone will tions will both feature battles match !'or Jackson and Szellc~ Notre Dame," Auriol said. tough competition from his both provide stiff competition between seasoned veterans \Viii push LaValle to t\h,~ limit. 
Both the men's and women's team will be looking to pick up their eighth-straight Midwest team championship. 

The consistent success of the Irish fencing program in the \ I Midwest might lead to compla-
SUMMER JOBS 
FOR THE 
ENVIRONMENT 
82500-$4000/Summer
Campaign lo save Wilderness, Endangered Species,
and to reduce toxic pollution. Make a Difference! Offices i1 o,er 35 states Campaign To Save the Environment 
1-800-75-EARTH 
CINf· MAl{K IHF ,\f l?FS 

I  "Castle Point Select" Designed for the ultimate comfort at a surprisingly Low Monthly Rate-Just Compare! Unfurnished or Furnished Spectacular Furnishings available! DOLLAR RENOVATION IARGE One Bedrooms (737 sq. ft.), Starting at $457 lARGE Two Bedrooms (1025 sq. ft.), Starting at $559 lARGER Apartments Also Available Included with Rentals ­Free Full Privilege Membership to the Castle Point Health and Racquet Club including the New Fitness Center *Outdoor Pool *Beach Volleyball *Sauna & Whirlpool *3 Racquetball Courts *Indoor/Outdoor Lighted Tennis Courts Hurry in for a tour of tl,e most popular apartments wl,i/e they last Castle Point ApartmentsCleveland & Ironwood Roads 272-8110 www.castle•point.com Monday-Saturday 8am • 6pm Sunday 12pm -5pm  


All Show, Before 6 PM $4.00 54.00 C'h1ldren/Seniors $6.50 Adult · Stereo Surround Sound in all Theatres 
Sm.m. R 
1:20, 2:05, 4:15, 5:00, 7:00. 7:45, 9:45, 10:30 
200 Cigarettes R 
2:15, 5;10, 7:40, 10:10 
Message In A Bottle PG-13 
1:15, 2:10, 4:05, 5:05, 7:10, 8:15, 9:55 
Life Is Beautiful PG-13 
1:30, 4:35, 7:35, 10:15 
October Sky PG-13 
2:00, 4:40, 7:25, 9:50 
Patch Adams PG-13 
1:35, 4:10, 7:20, 10:00 
Payback R 
1 :45, 4:20, 7:05, 9:40 
Prince of Egypt PG 
2:20, 4:50 
Saving Private Ryan R 
1 :40, 5: 15, 9:20 
Shakespeare in Love R 
1 :50. 4:30, 7:55, 10:35 
Rushmore A 
1 :55, 4:25, 7:30, 10:20 
The Faculty R 
7:25, 9:50 
The Other Sisler PG13 
1 :25, 4:20, 7:15, 10:05 rOOAYS Wt£$ ()Nlf FOUR n:.r 1t:v.l.N(E r.mr s.im aJ.MOtUP M:CfSS.!U . NO PASS£$ • NO S\iPWll~t~ 


zal.@@N/'J@Nh dlalt 
VARSITY SHOP \:2f;J t::2J;) VARSITY SHOP 
'l'I' 'l'I' 




Men's Basketball 
vs. 
/ 

Boston College l 

Sun. Feb. 28 @ 12:00pm
I ' ,'la It JI '­
'· VARSITY SHOP VARSITY SHOP 
'l'I' @®@®@ 'l'I' 


Friday, February 26, 1999 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 


Men 
continued from page 24 
on getting their point guard Martin lngelsby healthy and on the Eagles who knocked off 


LaFortune Ballroom 
Wednesday March 3rd 

" 
•~\ 


I oj 
,· Call Nancy 1-7668 for details!
.1, I 
Notre Dame, 78-67, in Chestnut Hill, Mass. 
"We want to get out revenge against Boston College," Murphy said. 
Ingelsby sat out the first game of his career Wednesday night due to a sprained ankle. 
,./ \\ 

'\ 
/ 
I '· 
\\, 
_.-_ 
-~'-\ 
.-= / 
// 
/ 
/ 
Student JJernment 
·•. / 
He is listed as questionable for Sunday's game. 
In his place Jimmy Dillon and Rainey will try to fill the void of Notre Dame's most solid ball handler, as the Irish gear up for the Big East Tournament. 
"We're using it as prepera­

tion for the tournament," Murphy said. "I don't think we've won a game in the Big East Tournament so far, but I think we're right on the verge of breaking in and making a run." 
If the Irish hope to make the NIT they'll have t'l beat Boston College and win at least two games in the tournament which would include knocking off either Connecticut or Miami. The Irish beat Miami in Miami ear1ier this season, but the Hurricanes have been on a tear recently and the Huskies are still in the top five. 
"We were looking forward to get.ting into a post-season tour­nament," Murphy said. "We had some troubles with injuries and we didn't play as well as we would have liked down the stretch, but we still have a chance going into tho Big East Touranment if we win 
Pasque>"illa East ML,\sical Compal'\}! 
pf"eSehtS 
!!!!11111!!!!111 llllllllllllllfilll'!!!!'IP"' 
A MUSICAL BASED UPON THE GOSPEL ACCORDING TO ST. MATTHEW 

Th1-0·sday1 F.,.ida¥, aV\d Satu. ...day Febl'4tA.al"}_' .25,26,27 at 7~3:P pm WashiV\9toff\ +-lall Ti;x $6 at LaFodu.ff\e J1,1fo Desk 


" 
a couple games there and beat Boston College we should be on the verge of getting into the NIT." 
Even if the Irish do not get a NIT bid they will look back on this season as one of growth, instead of one of dissapont­ment. 
"We are a real young team and there are going to be ups and downs because we are so young," Murphy said. "We will win some big games like we have and we'll lose some games that we should win, but we're learning and we'll use this as a springboard for next year." 
"It's been a learning process," he continued. "It's the first time we've been on these road trips and play in these different arenas. Now that we've got a full year under our belts we'll be that much more ready to play next year." 


page 18 The Observer• SPORTS Friday, February 26, 1999 
¦ TRACK AND FIELD 


' f 
t 
Tracksters close honie indoor season this weekend 
I 
I 
\ ) By MATT OLIVA 

Sports Wricer 
The Notre Dame track and field team will look to add to its NCAA Indoor Track Championship qualifiers this weekend, as they host the Alex \V il s o n I n v ita ti o n a I a t th e Loftus Center. 
The invitational is the last meet for the Irish before next weekend's NCA.\'s at the RCA Dorne in Indianapolis. 
The men's team qualified three members last weekend at the Big East Indoor Championships. The team placed second in the confer­ence. 
All-Big East junior Marshaun West qualified in the 200 meters and the long jump. His time of 21.42 in the 200 meters took first place, four-tenths of a second ahead of his nearest competitor. 
Senior Mike Brown qualified in the pole vault by placing first in the event with a mark of 16-2. His victory tied a team record of three consecutive Big East individual indoor championships in a single event. Former Irish All­American Jason Hexing accomplished the same feat in the 5,000 meters from 1996­98. 
Sophomore Ryan Shay also qualified with a second place 

' I 
time of 14: 18.70 in the 5,000

\ . 
meters.l The Alex Wilson Invitational,
I 
..... 

named for the former Notre { Dame coach, will give Brown 
: l 
ti 
~l)r Uiniberliit!' of ~otrr :mame 1i!lepartment of Jllu11ic pre11en111 a 
/'I, 
<!bamber ;ff-l1lusic (!Concert

)',
/, 
featuring jfarnlt~ ~embers 
<tl:arolpn ,ialummer, biolin, & Jsaren 1iuranskas, reno 


witb ®uest artists 31obn Tiruce !)eb. clarinet, & ~nbrea ~wan, piano 
and Shay an opportunity to improve on their marks. Brown. who won his event at last year's invitational, looks to repeat as champion. Sophomore Terry Wray also will attempt to repeat his first place finish in the 500 meters. 
The invite is crucial for other team members looking to secure a bid in the champi­onships. Antonio Arce might have the best chance in doing so. The senior could lock up a spot with a fast time in the mile. 
The women's team placed third at the Big East Championships, a tremendous improvement over last year's 10th-place finish. 
"Track is arguably the Big East's best sport," head coach Joe Piane said. "Last year two out of the top three women's teams in the nation were from the Big East. To make that kind of improvement is quite an accomplishment." 
Helping the Irish to this accomplishment were all­American JoAnna Deeter and junior Jennifer Engelhardt. 
Deeter placed first in the 5,000 meters with a time of 
16:22.64. She just missed another victory, taking second in the 3,000 meters at 9:32.48, 1 7 hundredths of a second behind Providence's Sarah Dupree. She has qualified for the NCAA's in both events. 
Engelhardt placed second in the high jump for the third­straight year. Iler jump of 5­10 tied her career best for 


indoor competition, and quali­finish in the 400 meters from concludes. fied her to compete next last year's Alex Wilson The ninth annual invitation­weekend in Indianapolis. Invitational. All three of the al begins tonight at 6 p.m. and 
Senior Nadia Schmiedt will women look to have a big continues on Saturday at 11 be defending her first-place weekend, as the indoor season a.m. 
Wolfie's Pasta, Sandwiches, Service! More! Location: -in the Campus Shoppes -1835 South Bend Ave. -Between Ironwood and Edison Hours: -Sunday to Thursday 11am to 1 am -Friday and Saturday 11 am to 3 am FREE DELIVERY 243-9911 ($5 Minimum-Um~ed Delivery Area• Drivers Carry Less Than $20) ,---------T---------,1 Lenten Special!!! 1 Large Pasta 1 I One free cheese with each I Special! I I sandwich purchase! I I I Available Cheeses: : $ 1 . 00 off any I I Provolone, Cheddar, Swiss, I Large Pasta I American and Mozzarella I I I ILLimit 2 per order Expires 4/4/99 1 Limit 2 per order Expires 4/4/99 I---------L---------J  
X X V I I I BOOKSTORE XXVIII IS COMING SOON! REGULAR SIGNawUPS IN LAFORTUNE Mon. March 1st-Fri. March 5th $1 0 Registration Fee 705 Teams in the Guinness record. Let's set our own in '99.  

Francesco's is looking for Servers!! Mon. -Sat. Shifts Available Apply in Person 
SPECIALIZING IN ITALiAN CUISINE 

I ,. 
Southern Italian Cooking at Its Finest 

I 
Prepared by Francesco and Family

l 
J 
An Authentic Taste of Italy

j, 
I, 
Most Romantic Place in South Bend and Mishawaka 
Hours:

·l: 
121.3 Lincolnway West

I ;-~ 

Mon.-Thurs 4:00-10:00 p.m.
/, 
I 
Fri.&Sat. 4:00-11:00p.m. Mishuwaka 

,. 
Sun. Closed (Fm11c1•s,·o inu dufII t ,\'I).fiJr .'W Y''" ,-.. )

I 

Friday, February 26, 1999 

The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
Chorney 
continued from page 24 
dominance at home. 
In the last eight years, Gonzaga has piled up a cB-8 record at home, including a perfect 10-0 this year. Its average margin or victory at home this season was an astounding 31. 9 points. 
Gonzaga. as evidenced bv its success. is one or the m~>st feared places to play in all or college basketball. You haven't heard of them becausP of this fear. They are so f'Pan~d that most larg•~ con­fon,ncP tPams won't play them at honw. They simply rPl'usp to. 
Why is a school that fow people havP heard or and eVfrn fewer would put in the same sentenn1 as "premier home court basketball team" so good at home? The secret of their success lies in the fact that at every home basketball game, Gonzaga students bm:omn fanatics. 
Tlrnir small arena or 4, I 00 becomes what they affection­ately <·all "The Kennel"(Their mascot is tlrn BulldogL The volume of "The Kennel" rPaches irn-rPdibly high levels -lcvPls that recent Joycn Center attendees only hear when the leprechaun is pass­ing out free shirts. Just as the occasionally high volume at Notre Dame home football games helps our football team, it turns into a distinct home court advantage for Gonzaga. The advantage then translates into success at home. 
Gonzaga's home winning 
WHY WOULD A RECRUIT THAT COMFS TO VISIT NOTRE DAME FOR A BAS­KETBALL GAME WANT TO PLAY HERE, IN FRONT OF 20 SCREAMING FANS AND 8,000 SILENT FILM STARS. 
tradition brings to light impor­tant lessons that most Notre Dame students should learn. Your team doesn't always win, you can still root for a losing team and sometimes. just sometimes, the level of crowd noise can affect the outcome of a game. 
Perhaps one or the reasons that we cannot elevate our men's basketball program to the level of other national Universities is our own fault. rather than the guys who don the uniforms or coach 
A peaceful vacation on the charming Scouish island of Iona sounds idvllic to sometime sleuth Dorothy Manin. But Dorothy soon finds that whil~ Iona is charming. her vacation won't be peaceful. Thrown in with a bickering American church tour, she tries to keep her distance. 
But she can't stay away from murder. 
..•
llarp,r 

-
MacLeod's. 
What's home court advan­
tage if the opposing fans are 
as loud as the home fans? The 
lack of noise affects recruiting 
as well. Why would a recruit 
that comes to visit Notre Dame 
for a basketball game want to 
play here, in front of 20 
screaming fans and 8,000 
silent film stars? It certainly 
doesn't inspire me. 
Perhaps if we showed up for 
a losing team, we could turn it 
into a winning team. People 
would come to see a winning 
team, more people translates 
into more wins and the circle 
goes round again. 
Despite the fact that most of 
the season is finished. I tell 
you don't dispair Domers. 
There is hope. There's a 
chance to redeem yourselves. 
Notre Dame men's basketball 
completes its season on 
Sunday at noon. 
Many of the aforementioned 20 fans of Notre Dame basket­ball are seniors, not all, but many. After this season then, the group will become even smaller. The game this Sunday then offers the perfect oppor­tunity for the rest of the stu­dent body to accept the torch that these fans pass on. 
Rather than sleep until noon and study the rest of the day. come out to the Joyce Center and if nothing else, show these fans that you appreciate them. Give them the gratitude that they were previously lacking. They're supporting your school and thev deserve it. Let them have their front row seats again, but let them know that you're right behind them. 
Maybe if we're lucky. the 20 will turn to 40, to 80, even to 
100. This Sunday offers the perfect opportunity to begin a tradition at Notre Dame, or rather. resurrect a tradition. 
We too. can be like Gonzaga. We can dominate at home just as we did in the past. Who knows, mavbe with a little bit of noise, tl{c team may just win and you may have some fun. 

¦ MEN'S LACROSSE 
Irish open season at Nittany Lions 
By BRIAN KESSLER 
Assistant Spores Editor 
After a disappointing 5-7 record last year, the 22nd­ranked Notre Dame men's lacrosse team will look to kick off the 1999 campaign on a positive note when they face­off against 16th-ranked Penn State on Sunday at State College. 
"Last year was definitely disappointing for us," said goalie Kirk Howell. "I think we had high expectations going in and took for granted that we were going to be good. This year we've had a great preseason and every­one's working hard, so it's totally different from last year. \.Ye're ready to go." 
The Irish have played the Nittany Lions in three of their last four season openers. Notre Dame is 13-5 in open­ers and 3-2 all-time against Penn State. 
Last year, Notre Dame failed to make the NCAA tour­. nament for the first time in seven seasons. In addition, the Irish lose three key play­. ers from last year's squad. Three-time honorable men­tion all-American Jimmy Keenan, three•time all­. American and 1998 Great Western Lacrosse League player of the year Todd Rassas and four.,.year starter Al~x C:ade w~~e au lost to
graduation. . . . . . . "It's going to be tough with­out them; they were all great players," Howell said. "Rassas was one of the best defenders in the country and Keenan was someone we counted on for offense, so now we're con­centrating on team defense and have changed our offense a little.,. The Irish do. however, return six starters. Preseason all-American candidate Chris 
te Th 
Dusseau heads a solid attack unit. The senior co-captain has been the leading goal scorer for the Irish each of the past three seasons, and stands seventh in career goals scored (82) at Notre Dame. 
Sophomore Dave Ulrich will also supply some firepower for the attack unit. 
As a freshman, he was sec­ond on the team in scoring. He netted 16 goals ,and dished off 18 assists. 
Senior Ned Webster also returns at attack. after miss­ing the 1998 season with a knee injury. Webster had 13 goals and 18 assists in 1997. 
The midfield unit lost two starters, but two seniors are returning on defense. Co-cap­tain David Biddison started 12 games for the Irish, while Laurence Galli made nine starts. 
Howell will get the nod in goal for Notre Daine. Neither he nor backup Pat Darcy have seen extended playing time in their first two seasons. 
'Tm really excited after sit­ting on the bench for two years," said Howell. "Cade was a great goalie and I learned a lot from him, but I'm ready to play," 
Penn State finished 6-6 last season, but are led by a tal­ented group of seniors. Captain John Chescavage Jed the Nittany Lions with 80 points lastgeai;on, as he scored 29 goals and recorded 10 assists. Chris Killoren. PSU's second-leading scorer last season, was lost to gradu­ation, but has joined the Nittany Lions coaching staff. 
Senior midfielders Todd Kaiser and Chris Schiller will fill the void left by Killoren and pick up where they left off last season. Kaiser had 12 
·goals and a team-high 17 assists, while Schiller added 14 goals and 10 assists. 

IC'/1. K t es FREE REFtLL
eraso 5 ea r On Popcorn & Soft Drinks! ft Movie with Magic •visrt our website at www.kerasotes.com
~-----·.a'«·--.,...._ ·­

SHOWPLACE 16 •299-6063 TOWN &COUNTRY• 299--6063 
All Stadium Seating• All Orgital Sound 2340 N. Hickory Rd. • Mishawaka
$4 00 •All Shows ~fore 6 pm ,r-., l.

W. of Main St. oo Chippewa• South Bend 
• • Students • Seniors ,/ C\

Ad1ranc11 Ticket Sakl-1 Availltbl~ r/$4 00 •Afl Showa Bflfore 6 pm ~/ 5­
StarTrek: Insurrection PG • • Students •Seniors 
(2:00] 4:30, 7.30, 9:45 8rrm R 
A Simple Plan R 

[1:10J4:10, 7:10, 10:05 

(1 :30] 4: 15, 7:00, 9:40 TheOUwSlslel' DIGITAL PG-13 
[100] 4:00, 7:00, 10:00 
My Favorite Martian DIGITAL PG 
[11 :45, 2:00] 4:20, 6:45. 9:00 
Rushmore R 
[12:15, 2:40j 5:15, 7:30, 9:50 
200 Cigarettes R 
[12:00, 2:20)5:00. 7:20. 9:40 
The Faculty R 
[12:30. 3:00] 5:30, 8:00, 10:35 
'!

Message In a Bottle DIGITAL PG·1l S1.50 All Evening Shows ';1 6., 
[10:50, 1:40] 4:40. 7:45, 10-.25 
Blast From 1h11 Past DIGITAL PG-13 
In Dreams R 

[11:50.23'.l]S:10, 7:40.10:10 
[2:20] 4:50, 7:30, 9:5()

Payback DIGITAL R Pleasantville PG-13 
'i 1 

[12:20. 2:50] 5:20, 8:10. 10:40 
She's All Thal DIGITAL PG-13 [1:15)4:20. 7:10, 9:45 
[11:10, 1:50j4:15,6:50,9.20 Mighty Joe Young PG October Sky DIGITAL PG [1 :20]. 4:00, 6:50, 9:15 [11:20, 1:45]4:3'.l. 7:15,9:45 The Watertx>y PG-13 
OfflceSpac:e DIGITAL R [2:00] 4:40 7:20 9:30 
[1240,3:10]5:3'.l,8:05, 10:15 
Rugrats G 

Jawbn!lal(er DIGITAL R 
[2:10] 4:3, 6:45, 9:10 

[12'.50, 3:15) 5:40. 8:15. 10-20 
Enemy of the State R 

SavlngPrivaleRya, DIGITAL R 
[1:30]4:15, 7:00. 9:40

[1210]4:25,8:15 
R Times in [brackets] indicate Saturday and

Shakespeere In Love DIGITAL 
[11:15. 2:10] 4:50, 7flJ, 10:3'.l Suooay MatineeS only PachAdams DIGITAL PG-13 

ALL STADIUM SEATING • ALL OtGITAL SOUND 

SHOWPLACE 16 
Just West of Main Street on Chi ewa -St~dents ~~d S~nio~~ s4Jjo A~----i~;­

) 
,, 
\ 
page 20 The Observer• SPORTS Friday, February 26, 1999 
¦ HOCKEY 

Irish prepare for weekend of Wildcat hunting 


standings, that the winner of The only prior meeting this
By TED BASSANI times this season, this precise the last nine games, the SP.cond
this weekend's series will go on season betwr,en Northern and 
Sporrs \X'rirer unit has combined to form line has combined to scon~ only
to host a first-round series. Notre Dame took place in 
arguably the league's biggest two goals and seven points.
Assuming these two teams fin­Marquette, Mich .. five weeks
Nov, that it's the penultimate olTensive threat. With so much prnssure bPing
ish fourth and fifth, this week­ago. After taking a 3-1 lead
weekend of the regular season, Smith. Vigier and Trudeau put on the team's top scornrs,
end's series will determine midway through the third peri­
Wf' can officially label this are tht'-top three scorers on the the third line of' Chad
which team will have to make· od, Notre Dame squandered the
weekend's games as crunch NMU squad, with a total of 40 Chipchase. Brett Ilenning and 
an extra nine-hour bus trip to lead with less than five minutes
tinw. goals and 56 assists betW{~cn Hyan Dolder may need to 1111 the
begin the CCHA playoffs. to play. Team captain Lee Huff
With just four games to go them. Smith alone has con­void. Over the last four games.
Irish head coach Dave Poulin and Fred Mattersdorfer each
before the CCI IA playoffs start, tributed 29 assists to lead the this unit has creatP.d the most
said it is not a stretch to c~all scored within a span of 37 sec­
Notre Dame is in fifth place in conference. chances. but has not bPen ablP
Friday night the most important onds to force the 3-3 tie.

the CCHA. They trail fourth­More importantly for the to cash in on them. But. says
game of the year. Every team that plays
place Northern Mkhigan by just Irish. who have struggled of late sophomore Chad Chipchase,
"Especially winding down the Northern Michigan has the
onP point for the final home ice killing penalties. the line forms perhaps tlwy \viii bP thP ones to
stretch with a chance to go up same game plan coming in ­

spot. The two games this week­a lethal power play combination pull th,1 team out of its slump.
on a team that we're competing stop the Wildcats' top scoring
end feature battlf,s between the as well. Vigier is tied for second "If we scon•. that will allow
against specifically for home line of J.P. Vigier, Buddy Smith
Irish and the Wildcats. in the CCI IA with 10 power play the first two lines to rPlax a lit­
ice, there's no question [it's the and Hoger Trudeau. Although
It is quite likely, given how goals on the year. tle. knowing that tlrn third and
biggest game of the year]," he head coach Hick Comelv has
each team currently sits in the In their current four-game fourth lines can contribute."
said. mixed and matched his li~es at 
slide, Notre Dame has only Chipchase said. 

managed two goals. and has \Vhennv<'r a team goes into a 
gone scoreless in its last 25 s Iu mp . a m aj or p rob Ir m 
power play opportunities. b1~conws losing conf'idrncf'. As 
Earlier in the year. the Irish recently as two v\'Prks ago, th.-~ 
power play enjoyed much SUC'­Irish wPrn tlw top scoring tPam 
cess. Lately, howevt>r, opp<>Sing in thr CCI IA. but pPrhaps that 
tt>ams seem to know what to s\vagger has lPf't tlwm of latP. 
expect from the power play unit "Goal scoring is a conlidPncP 
and have shut it down. thing." Poulin said. "Score goals 
"As you go on in the year, you and it's contagious; it rubs off. have to learn to adjust," Poulin Somebody has to put onl' in said. "Early on, the power play early." was clicking along at 25 per­In ordnr to bnat th<' Wildcats cent. But it has snagged, so this weekend. th<~ Irish will we've changed it up, changed need to get back to the basics the formation a little bit. that made them a top-10 tP.am changed up the personnel a for 17-straight weeks this sna­bit." so11. These include scoring on 
• 
In the last four games, the the power play. killing penal­
. 

team's top scorers simply have ties, gaining speed wide 
not been scoring. The top five through center ic(~ and even 
scorers on the team have all more subtle things like making 
gone scoreless over the last two better line changes. which has weeks. In addition, the team's hurt them on recent occasions. second line, which consists of "The main thing," as Dan Carlson, David Inman and Chipchase put it, "will be to gt'l Joe Dusbabek, has also gone back to what we do well. what through a recent dry spell. Over our strengths are." 
The Observer/Kevin 0alum 
Irish left wing Aniket Dhadphale skates past a Michigan State defender in last Friday's game at the Joyce 
Center. Dhadphale and his teammates face two crucial contests versus Northern Michigan this weekend. 

.. " :J ;~  ~ ~,,,...,  
lj  
....,,,  
) I  



''A CLASSIC ''THE BEST 
OF STARTLING COMEDY
ORIGINALITY," ~~ :~ Of 19981" 
hi• kh1n, IIU&.W STDttE .-/ 9-'D-.lffll 



Friday, February 26, 1999
. , 

The Observer• SPORTS page 21 
¦ SWIMMING 

Women take early lead, men still afloat at Big East 
By WES RICHARDSON Sports \'v'riter 
UNIONDALE, N.Y. 

Tlw l\otrP Dame wonwn's swim t1~arn took an C'arly lead, while the men arc currently in third place after the first of three days at the Big East swimming champi­onships. 
v\'ith 148 points. tlw men are just nine points shy of second place Syracuse and 24 points ahead of Hutgers. Pittsburgh is in command with 244 points. 
Even though the exact womens' team scores were not available because of a dispute about a div­ing seore. it is clear that the Irish am well on their way to vvinning the meet for the third consecutive year. 
The highlight of' the night was provided by sophomore Carrie Nixon. Iler 22.77 in the prelimi­naries of the :>0-yard freestyle earned a school and Big Eas-t record. as well as an automatic NCAA Championship bid. She. proceeded to drop that time to 22.62, en route to a victory in the finals. · 
"It was a pretty incredible swim," women's head coach 
the 200 individual medley. Liz Scott Zumbach contributed 17 old school record, set by Jim Although the women appear toBailey Weathers said, "I knew she Barger, Shannon Suddarth, points by scoring second in the Birmingham in 1990. be dominating the meet, theycould go that fast, and to have her Allison Lloyd and Tiffany O'Brien. 200 individual medley. His "This is the fastest first day know that the meet is not overdo it here is pretty critical to us." 
combined to score 54 points in 1:50.68 beat an eight-year-old since we've been coming to the yet, and are not assuming that
Nixon was followed by team­

the championship final heat. school record set by Ed Big East Championships," men's they will win.
mates Brooke Davey in fifth 
Suddarth and O'Brien tied for Broderick. coach Tim Welsh said. "We were "It's not in the bag yet.
place, Laura Sheppard in seventh third place at 2:05.61. The men have struggled pretty confident that we would Villanova has their best team
and Maureen Hillenmeyer in 
Kristen Van Saun and Tara through the sprints all season, sprint better here than we had ever, so it's not going to be a walk14th. 
Higgs qualified second and third but were very competitive in the been doing all year, but we would in the park to beat them. We haveThe women also won both the during the preliminaries of the 50 freestyle last night. Ray not have predicted this." to stay competitive with them,"
200 frnestyle and 400 medley 500 freestyle, then held their Fitzpatrick finished second at The men's team score was hurt Weathers said, noting the Irish
relays. Both relays broke Big East ..
spots during the finals. Both 20.73, followed by Vince Kuna's by the lack of a diver, but helped score is behind where it was afterand school records with times of earned NCAA Championship con-seventh place time of 21.13. by ty1ng Pittsburgh for second the first day of competition at last1 :32. 96 and 3:43.17, respectively. 
sideration times. Fitzpatrick's time broke another place in the 400 medley relay. year's championships.
The Irish dominatnd the final of 



LAST CHANCE TO REGISTER IS TODAY! 
All Special Interest & Social/Service Clubs must register today between 1 :00 p.m.-7 :00 p.m. 

Club 

Coordination 
Council 
Graduate Club registration will be held in March after Spring Break. 
. ANY QUESTIONS? STOP BY THE CRC TODAY OR CALL 631-4075 . 
-· 
-
-
.. 
' 
page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, February 26, 1999 

¦ BASEBALL 
Sluggers take field in New Orleans 
By BILL HART Assistanr Sports Editor 
\Vith snow still covering the campus, it's hard for someone to even think about playing baseball. 
This weekend. however, the Notre Dame baseball squad will return to the dia­mond when they head southward to the 1999 New Orleans Classic. The Irish return to action after open­ing the year with a four-game series in Miami last weekend. 
''As far as competition goes, they're going to be tough," sophomore pitcher Aaron Heilman said about the upcoming opponents. "We're going to treat them with the respect they deserve though, and go out there to win." · 
On Friday evening. the Irish will open the tourna~ ment when they face the Missouri Tigers. The Tigers finished last season with an 36-18 overall record and an 12-2 mark ifi the Big 12, good enough for fifth place in the conference. 
Mizzou has gotten off to a Slow start this season. Having been swept by con­ference rival Texas in three games, two of which were called off early by the 12­run rule, the Tigers will be looking to get back on track this weekend. 
The only bright spot in the Tiger lineup was infielder Jon \'Villiams, who went 5­for-10 on the week with three doubles, three runs and two RBI. 
On Saturday afternoon. 
Notre Dame will play tour­
nament host New Orleans. 
The Privateers were picked 
to finish fourth in the Sun 
Belt this year, and currently 
they hold a 3--3 record in 
non-conference play. The 
team wHI look to maintain 
the same pace they _had last 
season, when they finished 
fifth in the conference with a 
29-29 record. The Irish 
hope to continue past suc­
cess against the Privateers. 
Two years ago, they com­
pleted.a three-game sweep 
of the Privateers. 
Notre Dame will finish the 
weekend's action on Sunday 

with a matinee against Southern Illinois. The Salukis enter the weekend with a 2-1 record. After los­ing their home opener to Stetson, 8-7, the Salukis ral­lied with 10-7 and 14-6 wins to claim the series, 
"The competition in New Orleans will be challenging," SIUC head coach Dan Callahan said about the upcoming weekend. "We know UNO always has a fine program, and Missouri and Notre Dame are loaded. Missouri is 0-3, but the Tigers are coming. off action at the University of Texas ­perhaps the top team in the country right now. Missouri won 36 games last season. and Notre· Dame nabbed 41, so we know the competition will be tremendous." · · 
The Irish struggled offen­sively last weekend. They opened with an 8-4 victory over James Madison, before losing three straight. 
All three defeats last weekend came at the hands of Florida International. who extended tbeir record to 12­
o. the<best start in the team's history. After the game. Irish hea:d eoaeh Paul Mainieri bad· high praise for the FIU squad. 
"We tan into a buzz-saw. 
there.·• _he $aJd. "This is 
probably<FIU~s most out~ 
standing team Jn its. history. · 
They have a very solid team 
and their starting rotation 
completely handcuffed our 
hitters.,. 
In the final game of the series, the home team retired the first 11 Irish bat~ tcrs, before senior catcher Jeff Wagner reached on an infield single. Wagner stole second and took third on a throwing error. but the next batter bounced out to the pitcher to close out the inning. 
As it turned out. it would 
be a.s close as· the visitors 
would get to S(}oring a ·run. · 
They had just four hits and 
five walks over the course of 
the game. . 
Despite falling to 1-3 on 
the season and· 1osing their 
opening momentum, the 
team still feels confident 
about their chances this 
weekend. 
''Last week was pretty unfortunate," Heilman said. "We had some things g() wrong, but we've come out with a positive attitude. We've practiced all week long, and have pretty much put it all behind us." 
¦ MEN'S TENNIS 

Broncos visit the Eck Pavilion 



J' 
r-----------------, r----------------,
: 10 tanning : : 1 month : : I sessions : I l of unlimited tanning : : I s:Jo : I : I s3s l I 
L-----------------~ L----------------J 
NEW! 
University Commons Southland Plaza Grape & McKinley 
by UP Mall at Ireland & Ironwood near KMart 
272-7653 291-2000 256-9656 

By NATHANIEL DeNICOLA 
Sports \X'ritcr 

This Friday, the Notre Dame men's tennis team hosts the Boise State Broncos at the Eck Tennis Pavilion at 3 p.m. 
The match is the last of three this week for the 24th-ranked Irish. Notre Dame lost to Iowa on Wednesday and plays Ohio State on Saturday. By shuting down the Hawkcvcs, 7-0, the Irish compiled their second shutout of' the season and pushed their sea­son mark to 5-4. 
Last Saturday, the team enjoyed their first shutout, as they blanked 37th-rankcd Northwestern, 7-0. They then fell to 23rd-ranked Minnesota on Sunday. Several notable changes occurred in the lineup in the vic­tory over Iowa. Andrew Laflin moved ·up the singles ladder from No. 6 to No. 4. Laflin, who boasts an undefeated record at No. 6 singles, continued his impressive freshman season by downing Pctar Mandie in straight sets, 6-4, 6-2. 
Senior captain Andy Warford assumed the No. 6 slot, whf~re he got the best of Jason Dunn in a seesaw match, 6-0, 4-6, 6-1. Thn doubles lineup also experiencr-d some reshullling at Nos. 2 and 3 due to a relapse of Matt Horsely's \Vrist injury. 
Warford joined Trent MillPr to 1111 the vacancy at No. 2, while the freshman tandem of Javier Taborga and Aaron Talarico excelled in their dual-match debut, beating Ben Bamsey/J.R. Chidley 8-3 at No. 3 doubles. 
The Trish will take their new and improved lineup against a 3­5 Boise State team. Last year. the Broncos defeated Notre 

Dame two times in as many weeks. llistorically, the Irish hold a 2-2 record versus the Broncos. 
Despite losing to Cl<Hnson, SMU and Minnesota, Boise State has yet to lose a doubles point, an ominous stat considering that this cllusivc point has been the deciding factor in several of th<' Irish's 4-3 losses. · 
In tlrn latt11st ITJ\ rankings on Feb. 16, all-American Hyan Sachirn improved from tlrn No. 3 spot to No. 2, marking the high­est ranking held by an Irish sin­gles player since l <J92 when David DiLucia finished tlw sea­son at No. 1. Th,~ rise from No. 3 to No. 2 d~rivos from his success at the Holf'x National 
. lntcrcoll-egiate Indoor Championships singles consola­tion and his 9-2 dual-match record. 
John M. Marshall's, Inc. 
Established 1965 

Diamonds Engagement Rings & Wedding Bands l 8karat Yellow Gold & Platinum. 
-

Thinking of purchasing a diamond? Choose ~isely with information in our complimentarybook, Diamonds Magnified, 186 pages, 2nd edition, hardbound. 
John M. Marshall 
Jeweler/ Gemologist / Mineralogist 



INTERNATIONAL FESTIVAL 
Join us for a night of song, dance and music. 
Celebrate diversity as the WORLD CONVERGES at NITTRE DAME 
LaFortune Ballroom Saturday, February 27 7pm 
Buy your tickets now­$2 at the LaFortune Info Desk 
Brought to you by: Office of International Student Affairs International Student Organization 





Friday, February 26, 1999 page 23 
The Observer• TODAY 
SLURRED SPEECH 



AJ/b JE5VS RcSVRR£cT€'b LAZARVS FROM -r,t£ DEAD ... 
FOXTROT 
I LoVE MY 
AQUARIUM, 
Mo'l\-lER! I'M HAPPY THANK YOU! To HEAR '\II,.,, 11-lAT. 
I 
DILBERT 
IT'S ESPECIALLY N1CE To HAVE 
WttEN I'M 0011-.6 MY HoMEWc:>Rk. 
\ \.[, 
s BECAUSE 1T KEEPS You CoM·i ~"f? BECAUSE ll-lE SouNOSi AND Col~ ARE CAL.MING?'
iBECAUSE lliE Mo'iEMENTS oF 5 'THE f ISH TAl<E YOUR 8RA1N ~ IN1b A HEIGHTENED STATE
iof 1MA61NtTI\IE 1l-11NK1N&? 
;  ~~  
Q  :':_. ~  /;./  
\,~J 

J+--+-+--~.~ 



•.··.. ·.·.·. '.ir:J~egr .'a voice rec . 
· 
A Chamber Music Concert with faculty members 
Carolyn Plummer (violin) and Karen Buranskas (ceJlo) 
and gu.Bst artists John Bruce Yeh (clarinet} and 
Andrea Swan (piano) will be held Sunday. Feb. 28. at 
2 p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium. The program 
includes Messiaen's "Quartet for the End of Time"and 
Brahms' Clarinet Trio in A Minor(.Op. 114. Tickets for 
the concert are available at the La.Fortune Box Office 
and are$3 for students, $6 for senior citizens, $8 for · 
NO/SMC· employees with ID. and $10 general admi§': · 
sion, 
Wanted: 
Strip cartoonists and one--panel cartoonists. 
)!19t;~!IEREST •


.·····No ... senior te~jti;'Je~i;;M1Clo1tinger1w~u · present•·•.:!:? ·...•Voice r,cita\ to~orrp~iait.~~~(M>n Filt<4 p.mnJP.. the )
~li!i~,:~tif,t~itPl~t~i~;~~ 
DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
LtLttUUHt-.~ UUKN ON THlS DAY: Michael Bolton, Tony Randall, Johnny Cash, Victor Hugo, Fats Domino, Jackie Gleason, Godfrey Cambridge, Mitch Ryder 
Happy Birthday: Uncertainties will surround you if you aren't pre­cise in your communications. Tell it like it is this year. You need to get straight answers, and you must get promises in writing. Doq.'t be led astray by silver-tongued talkers. It is up to you to make your own deci­sions and to follow your own dreams. If you are too willing to give of your­self to others, you will fall short of your own expectations. Your num­bers: 3, 11, 17, 25, 31, 39 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Get your domestic chores out of the way. 
BILL AMEND 
You will not be in the mood to deal with the emotional drama that your
BECAUSE AFTER WATQf1NG 
mate intends to dump on you. Try to 
FISH FoR AN tk>OR, 
stay calm and refuse to be provoked. 
00
EVEN GEOMETRY I'M 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You
SEEMS E'X<tT1NG. Al.WAYS
"
\ 
tickets still on sale for 
newt gingrich 
at the lafortune box office 

... 
students: $6 lecture is tuesday, april 13 
date. Make arrangements to make 
payments that won't break your bud­
get. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You should get out and do things that will bring you satisfaction and enhance your reputation. Problems involving children may throw you for a loop. Try to deal with these dilemmas calm­ly. 0000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You won't have much patience with oth­ers. Your inability to live with dishar­mony may be the reason for your decision to move on or make the changes necessary in your life. 00 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You have an excellent memory when it comes to dealing with those who are being~evasive. You can back opponents into a corner, but expect opposition and be prepared to debate. 
00000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): 
Sudden reversals of fortune will occur if you have been delving into risky financial ventures. You may want to leave your credit cards at home and leave your cash in the bank. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Expect to have disagreements with your partner if financial abuse has left you in a tight spot. You may have to put limitations on others' spending habits, which won't sit well with them.000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18); 
Colleagues may cause a problem for you at work. Be careful not to let them be privy to your personal involvement or your thoughts about co-workers. Gossip will backfire. 
000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Oill­dren will need your help today. Don't hesitate to offer assistance at the school if your children are involved in an important project. You can get into shape if you work out regularly. 
00000 

... 
.. 
-
... 50, 
TtNA, "<OU 
SHOULONT HA.VE. ... 
) 
E 
0 
0 ~ 
.. 
@) 
.. ~ 
,:;,.. 
~ 
<.J 
"' 
E 
0 
u 
t:: 
G) 
.c 
'O 
~ 
;: 
_ 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Some caste 
members 5 Take down -­9 Art drawing 
14 Reason for an NC-17 rating 15 It may be braided 
16 "Mourning Becomes Electra" brother and namesakes 
11 Movie princess 18 Peter, but not the saint 20 Francis, but not the saint 22 Floor-making 
factory 23 "I'll second that" 24 "Gunsmoke" 
shower 
--------------• 
27 Unproductive 29 Big bill 31 Loose 33 Garth Brooks, 
notably 34 Christopher. but 
not the saint 39 1925 trial name 40 Low grade 41 Take out for the 
shelves, say 42 One way to stop 48 Smallest Can. 
province 49 Unfortunate 52 Bryan, for one 53 Stephen, but not 
the saint 57 John, but not the 
saint 59Vivacity 60 How doughnuts 
are prepared 
61 Provide for free, informally 62 Baseball's 
Brogna 63 Not say directly 64Cap site 
&s Vessel with a load 
DOWN 
1 Metal tips 2 Sartre classic 3 Not quite a run 4 Attesting official 5 Popular 
houseplant &Clip 7 Admittance aGlittery stone 9 Chesterfield, for 
one 1o The Phantom of 
the Ooem 
Submit three to five examples of your work to Michelle Krupa at The Observer in the basement of SDH. 
Gl.ADTo HELP. 
I 
can have a great time and meet romantic individuals if you get together with friends. You have been depressed, and it is time to turn things around. Put on your favorite outfit and get out. 0000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You may be too emotional about occur­rences at work. Try to keep your nose out of other people's business. Your own job will be questionable if you don't focus on doing the best you can. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will be hard to get along with today. 


performing at reckers friday midnite at reckers ~ 
black 
showing at cushing auditorium 8 and 11 : 1 5 PM 8 and 11 :15 PM 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE i1 Wreath feature 12 Like Bach's 
---r-.---r--, 
Sonata No. 3 for violin 13 Pale blond 
~=....a..,;...... 
19 Some Monopoly -+--+--+---+--i purchases: 
....::..f~....:-..:..;.+;;;;;.. Abbr. 
21 "... --shall
--------1 25 Bingo call 
die" (1967 lyric)  
..;...;.+.;;;.+;;.+-;..+--i  26 Sunday spiel:  
Abbr.  
__........,_.  30 And never  
~=.,;;;;;...,;...,.  32 Marked, as a  
ballot  

Puule by David J. Kahn 
33 Device for recording speech 
34 Bad marks 35 "Lost in Space" 
family name 36 U.S.N. rank 37 Witch's work 38 Bill Gates, e.g.: 
Abbr. 39 Banquet 43 Curved figure 44 Stuntmen 45 Emphatic, in a 
wav 
a.J.• 

ja~~tian Q) 

46 Rainier locale  54 Ear-related  
47 Up to this time,  55 Repellent  
once  5& "--here"  
49 Twinkling of an  57 Conrad title  
eye  character  
so Smart one  58 Prefix with  
51 Popular mustard  vocal  

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 
1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 vears: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 


. 

¦ Yankees' outfielder ¦ The Irish swimming Darryl Strawberry may teams are competing not return as soon as this weekend at the Big expected from colon East Championships. cancer. 
p.15 p.21 
THE 

page 24 0 BSERVER ------------------Friday, February 26, 1999 




¦ MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Cagers look to finish strong 
By JWCAVATO 
Associate Sports Editor 
Although chances for the post-season appear slim, the Notre Dame men's basketball team will look to send its seniors off on a high note this Sunday when the Boston College Eagles come to town. 
Antoni Wyche, Phil Hickey. Paul Hainev and Dennis Carroll \Yill 111ake their final apperan<'es this weekend as the 14-16 Irish look to rebound from a 20-point loss to St. John's and prepare for the Big East Tournament. 
"vVe're looking to finish up our season strong at home," freshman Troy Murphy said. "It's senior day so it will be an emotional game for Tone and Phil and all the seniors." 
Aside from all the emotion of senior day, the Irish are still playing for positioning in the Big East Tournament. · 
Tim Irish could finish any­where from seven to 10 in the seedings for the tournament. They are in a traffic jam in the middle of the pack with Providence, Seton Hall and Georgetown. The seven and 10 seeds will play each other next Wednesday, with the winner playing the second seed the next day. 
The eighth and ninth seeds will also play each other \/Vedensday at Madison SquareGarden and the winner of that game \Vill take on the top seed. 
The top two se<\ds will be Connecticut and Miami, but 
• the order may be reversed. The Irish are concentrated 
see MEN/ page 17 
¦ FENCING 
Irish host Midwest Championships 
By MIKE CONNOLLY epee captain Nicole Mustilli toughest trios of foil fencers in Sports Writer said. "I think that this is a the Midwest. chance to prove that our full "Ohio State and 
In the words of all-American team, with Magda back. that Northwestern have decent epeeist C.J. Jackson, "It's pay­we can take Northwestern, no teams,!' head coach Yves back time." problem. And Ohio State. we Auriol said. "But this coming 
Notre Dame hosts the beat them at home last time so weekend we will have a full Midwest Championships this we are going to do it again this team so we should be ok." weekend and the Irish are time." The men's epee team will looking to redeem themselves While the women's foil team also be looking to avenge a for past defeats at the hands of managed to go undefeated in past defeat when they match Midwest foes. the Midwest on the season, up with Lawrence University. 
The women take on Midwest they too have revenge on their Last weekend when the two opponents Northwestern and minds this weekend. squads clashed, Lawrence Ohio State, both of whom "The women's foil lost [the emerged with a 5-4 victory. defeated the Irish earlier this Midwest title I last year to Ohio "We found out that Lawrence season. The return of all­State," captain Nicole Paulina has a very good epee squad," 

:r Americans Magda Krol and said. "It is kind of revenge time Auriol said. Sara Walsh and junior Aimee for us. We want it back this Jackson and freshman stand­Kalogera should propel the year." out Brian Casas will look to Irish to victories over both the Walsh returns to the foil lead the Irish to victory this Buckeyes and the Wildcats. squad after missing last week­weekend. Casas leads the "I think that we took those end.. due to illness. She will squad in victories with 44. two losses to Ohio State and combine with three-time all­while Jackson is second with Northwestern that we didn't American Myriah Brown and / expect to take," all-American Paulina to form one of the see FENCING/ page 16 

¦ ON THE HOT CORNER 

Dedicated fans bask 
in basketball glory 
By BRIAN CHURNEY 
Sporrs Columnist 
What were you doing on Sunday when Paul Hainey made his third and fourth points of the season? How about on Wednesday, Feb. 10 when Georgetown broke a Big East record for steals in a game? 
And where were you when the Irish men's basketball team played what could have been their best basketball game of the season, blowing out a Providence College team that has beaten Purdue, Syracuse and Villanova (all probable tournament teams)? 
The answer to these ques­tions for approximately 20 dedicated Notre Dame basket­ball fans {yes, there is such a thing) is that they were in the front row of the Joyce Center watching the games, where they've been for every game and scrimmage for the past two years. 
What makes them unique though. is where they were before the game. Ever since Notre Dame basketball switched from assigned seat­ing to "first come, first serve," these fans have located them­selves in the front row of each and every basketball game. To get these coveted scats, the "left" and the "right," as they have named themselves, have sat outside the opening gates for as much as an hour and a half in advance. 
Their names will not be seen in the program this year, but they are as important as any other part of the team. They are the true f'ans ­fanatics, if you will -unfazed by mediocre records or sloppy play. Their loyalty is neither based on the final score nor the magnitude of the game. There are no small games for fanatics. 
Moreover, every part of the game is important, from the opening tip to the final buzzer. If they let down their guard for a second, they risk losing the mental edge that they strive for. This job is hard work. They are reward­ed with few wins, little grati­tude and. with the exception of a rare television appear­ance, little tangible rewards. 
And yet, they sit and wait hours before a game for these precious seats. Despite what appears to be another losing season, they sit and wait. 
While the actions of these 20 fans are admirable ­questionably sane, but nonetheless admirable ­Notre Dame basketball isn't blessed with many other fanatics. 
A few crazy fans is not quite enough to strike fear in the 

ey,~s of opposing teams. We, as Notre Danrn students, often complain or make jest at our less-than-powerful men's bas­ketball team. 
Why can't they win'? Wouldn't it be fun if we did win? 
Believe it or not, there was a time in Notre Dame basket­ball when we did win. There was a time when the Joyce Center was thought of as a place where opponents did not want to play. There was a time when the students came. Them was a time when the students cheered. 
Why should I cheer for a team that turns the ball over at record-breaking rates, doesn't have a flashy all­American that plays above the rim, and sometimes appears to give games away'? 
Well, let mo tell you a little story about a school in the Pacific Northwest. and then ask me again. Located in Spokane, Wash., Gonzaga University is a Division I school with an enrollment of about 5,000. It competes in the less-than-nationally renown West Coast Conference. 
Without the name recogni­tion of a Notre Dame. the weather of' UCLA, the basket­ball tradition of North Carolina or the academic rep­utation of Duke, Gonzaga has little to offer premium basket­ball recruits. In fact, other than John Stockton (class of 84}. who grew up in Spokane. Gonzaga hasn't been able to recruit professional level tal­ent. 
Since 1988, Notre Dame has sent four players to the NBA {David Rivers, Monty Williams, LaPhonso Ellis and Pat Garrity), while Gonzaga hasn't sent a player. Logic dictates then, that Gonzaga should not be able to compete at the national levol. 
They recruit dec<rnt players, not top-10 classes, but not incredibly weak classes. They are your typical small confer­ence college basketball team -"an automatic bid" team, if you will. 
Followers of college basket­ball though, know that Gonzaga is more than just another small conference bas­ketball team. At one point this year, Gonzaga broke into tlrn rankings for the first time in its basketball history. 
While for a small confcrcncti team a ranking is its most sig­nificant basketball accom­plishment, Gonzaga boasts another. One of the most sig­nificant reasons Gonzaga is able and has been able to achieve success against big­ger, better teams is its near 
see CHURNEY/ page 19 
Men's and Women's 

at Big East Basketball 
vs. Boise State, 
Swimming

Championships Today, 3 p.m.
SPORTS 

at Big East Championships, 
Sunday 
Today -Saturday
ATA 
Softball 
vs. Boston College 

at Tennessee Tournament, 
vs. Northern Michigan,
Sunday, 12 p.m. 
Today-Sunday Today, 7 p.m. 
GLANCE 


uSTRONG BODIES FIGHT, THAT WEAK BODIES MAY BE NOURISHED." 




s.  135 LB. . . l,"~,. '. . .  145 LB. '.····..,J < • ., VS  
OVERBECK MACMAHON PICKS OVERBECK OUT FOR KATHLEEN LOPEZ THE FINALS While each of the boxers fought just onceALLISON after advancing with first round byes,KRILLA Overbeck will not be available for tonight's finals. A previously scheduled medical school interview in Kansas City will keep the KERRY SMITH Keenan Hall senior from a match up with the Morrissey freshman. KEVIN THOMPSON  MADDEN SEERVELD Seerveld, a runner-up to JeremyPICKS Leatherby in the 130-pound division last KATHLEEN year, is hungry for a title in his final Bengal LOPEZ Bouts. The top-seeded Seerveld also holds a dis­Seerveld tinct height and reach advantage overALLISON Madden. KRILLA But don't underestimate the underdog Seerveld who has burned several worthy opponents in the first two rounds. Look for a dog fight KERRY SMITH between two seniors with nothing to lose.Seerveld Each of these are guys is hungry for brag­KEVIN ging rights and the championship title and tonight is their last chance. THOMPSON -Allison Krilla Madden  MAGUIRE This is just PICKS matchups. Th KATHLEEN friends will . LOPEZ more. No. l-s4 the title that 1Will lost an epic baALLISON This time,KRILLA finds himself 1 Will Will brings a while Magui1KERRY SMITH approach.Will Both boxers KEVIN similar body ~ to a test of emTHOMPSON Will  
163 LB.  165 LB.  
r .. .__···.•· _ ...l"""'~-1•.•.···.. '·rl·'•  / --·~~: <?'--·:.::  __,  
.· ~ <vs. .l r  vs.  vs  
VO ' -~-in KIRLEY LADUKE Last year, Mike "Lockdown" LaDuke sur­PICKS prised his critics when he dominated his KATHLEEN finals match. He got in a full fight in the LOPEZ opening round but did not see any action in the semifinals.LaDuke Kirley enters the finals after two intenseALLISON brawls. He will have to dominate early in KRILLA order to stay in the match. Don't underesti­LaDuke mate the power of determination. Kirley is a first-time finalist as a senior, so this is theKERRY SMITH time for him to rally. LaDuke LaDuke is out to prove that he is no fluke. KEVIN The senior looks stronger than ever and will be tough to dethrone. THOMPSON -Kathleen Lopez LaDuke  Sean "The Erie Kid" Nowak has provenPICKS that he can brawl if he has to or if he canKATHLEEN be more controlled. He can blow-for-blow LOPEZ with anyone. He packs a powerful punch and will be a formidable opponent for theNowak second-seeded Travis Alexander. ALLISON Watch for Alexander to rely on his rightKRILLA which has got him this far. This fight Alexander could come down to endurance as both of these fighters endured some tough fights. KERRY SMITH This one should go three rounds withAlexander both exchanging serious combinations. KEVIN This is the first finals' appearance for both so watch for an intense battle.THOMPSON -Kathleen Lopez Nowak  BIOLCHINI The fight bPICKS Prissy Pants" KATHLEEN Destroyer" Pm Top-seeded ] LOPEZ trol and tecluBiolchini decision wins.ALLISON will keep Penn KRILLA Penn, the N Biolchini punch. He too to the semifina KERRY SMITH Look for thisBiolchini the night. Biol KEVIN experience an1 essary for a wiTHOMPSON Penn  
180 LB. ~ ~ vs.  185 LB. ,..... ~ vs. "-···;,.  190 LB. ~-i··,_',;­'~1 ·•. ~­'''-.:­vs  
l I CHEN KENT Second-seeded Paul "You BetterPICKS Recognize, Chump!" Chen will be a formida­KATHLEEN ble stop on senior underdog Willie Kent's LOPEZ quest for the title. Although he does not have a powerfulChen punch, Chen's controlled and patient attack ALLISON assures that his punches hit the mark. KRILLA Kent's similar build and fighting style may Kem make for an interesting fight, but might not be enough for Kent to pull off his thirdKERRY SMITH upset.Chen If Chen can control the center of the ringKEVIN as he has in his last two fights. he will be almost impossible to stop. THOMPSON -Kerry Smith Chen  ROMANCHEK GAFFNEY A Classic, a duel between a ruggedPICKS brawler and a master executer. KATHLEEN Two good friends and Bengal Bout cap­LOPEZ tains, Brian "The Nutty Irishman" Gaffney and Mike "El Pescador" Romanchek haveGaffney not met in the ring for two years. GaffneyALLISON got the best of Romanchek back then. KRILLA Romanchek has not lost in over two years Romanchek but Gaffney has never tasted defeat. The patient Romanchek must avoid turn­KERRY SMITH ing this fight into a slugfest and playingGaffney right into Gaffney's hands. KEVIN Gaffney is shooting for a perfect Bengal career and his fourth straight titleTHOMPSON -Kevin Thompson Romanchek  BUTZ Both fighPICKS Wednesday niJ KATHLEEN Dave "Bell-' LOPEZ stand in there wallop as well.Butz Mike "It hmALLISON Velten, in his KRILLA bruiser. He tb is relentless 01Butz his power andKERRY SMITH Both have J Butz Velten to com KEVIN for the quick , wear him doWJTHOMPSON Velten  

. t' ...••...•... 
, . 1. .. 
. ,• ' ' • • • • ' ' • 'I' 
·' 
, .... , ... , , , ' . I • 


1. 

vs. 
[RE 
WILL 
This is just one of the premiere captains' matchups. The battle between captains and friends will come down to who wants it more. No. 1-seeded Will is primed to capture the title that eluded him last year when he lost an epic battle to senior Lucas Molina. 
This time, the second•seeded Maguire finds himself fighting the friend he respects. Will brings a controlled, technical approach while Maguire takes a more aggressive approach. 
Both boxers display solid techniques and 
similar body types. This one will come down 
to a test of emotions. 
-Allison Krilla 

• 

vs. 
-IINI 
PENN 
The fight between juniors Tom "Polly Prissy Pants" Biolchini and Don "Juan The Destroyer" Penn should be an even bout. 
Top-seeded Biolchini has shown good con­trol and technique in his two unanimous-decision wins. His quick in-and-out routine will keep Penn on his toes. 
Penn, the No. 2 seed, packs a powerful 
punch. He took only 48 seconds to advance 
to the semifinals with a knock-out victory. 
Look for this fight to be one of the best of the night. Biolchini and Penn both have the experience and determination that are nee­essary for a win 
-Kerry Smith 

• 

VELTEN 

Both fighters proved themselves Wednesday night. 
Dave "Bell-Vegas" Butz showed he can stand in there, take his hits and dish out a wallop as well. 
Mike "It hurts more than it feels good" Velten, in his 1999 debut, showed he is a bruiser. He throws hard combinations and is relentless on the attack. Velten must use his power and speed to wear down Butz. 
Both have proven stamina, but expect Velten to come out swinging early, looking for the quick victory. If not, Butz will try to wear him down in a three-round slugfest. 
-Kevin Thompson 
150 LB. 

170 LB. 
" 

vs. 

HAMMES KERRIGAN 
MELLIN 
PICKS 
KATHLEEN LOPEZ Hernandez ALLISON KRILLA Hernandez KERRY SMITH Mellin KEVIN THOMPSON Hernandez 
PICKS 
KATHLEEN LOPEZ Kerrigan ALLISON KRILLA Kerrigan KERRY SMITH Kerrigan KEVIN THOMPSON Kerrigan 
Junior Mike "Honey" Hammes could have his hands full with senior favorite Alex "The Corn Cob Kid" Kerrigan. 
Hammes earned an impressive unanimous upset in the quarterfinals but has not seen any ring action since. 
Kerrigan, with a big height and reach advantage, has put on two solid perfor­mances and is riding on two unanimous decisions. He will be tough to beat in the finals. 
Hammes will have to be aggressive from the start if he wants to upset Kerrigan for the title. 
-Kerry Smith 

s. 
KENT 
PICKS 
KATHLEEN LOPEZ Ryan ALLISON KRILLA Ryan KERRY SMITH Kem KEVIN THOMPSON Ryan 
HERNANDEZ 
Who could ask for a more even fight than this one? Junior captain J.R. Mellin has the experience but so does freshman Edward Hernandez. The freshman sensation packs a powerful punch which often times leaves his opponents stunned. 
Mellin can boast nothing less as both his quarterfinal and semifinal matches have been called early. Each have the footwork and the skills, so this could be one of the best fights of the night. 
Hernandez gets a slight advantage with his ability to box both ways, leaving many questioning how to prepare. 
-Kathleen Lopez 
RYAN 
Alex Kent can knock you out early but still have enough left in the tank to do the same in the third. Endurance has been key to his success thus far. 
Pete "Beat the Rap" Ryan, with only one Bengal appearance under his belt, is still relatively unknown. which could work to his advantage. He possesses quick legs which he must utilize to avoid a brawl with power­ful Kent. 
Ryan must endure an early barrage from Kent and pace himself. If he follows these rules, expect this one to go down to the wire. 
-Kevin Thompson 
I . ',
.<~-• '.. 

155 LB; 
vs. 
.i 
~ 

MURPHY CRONLEY 

PICKS 
KATHLEEN LOPEZ Murphy ALLISON KRILLA Murphy KERRY SMITH Murphy KEVIN THOMPSON Cronley 

175 LB. 
Dave "The Rock" Murphy is definitely rested but the question might be is he too rested. He saw a quick minute of action in the quarterfinals and has been quiet ever since. Tom "Boos" Cronley could enter the finals somewhat tired after a split decision in the semifinals 
It could come down to determination because both are seniors with this being each of their last chance to win the big one. Cronley has the height and reach advantage but Murphy packs a powerful punch. This bout should be a duel to the end with the most determined being victorious. 
-Kathleen Lopez 
vs. 

PFEIFFER SANDIFUR 


PICKS 
KATHLEEN LOPEZ Sandifur ALLISON KRILLA Pfeiffer KERRY SMITH Sandifur KEVIN THOMPSON Sandifur 

Sophomore Steve "The Angry Pirate" Sandifur will be a tough challenge for Trent "Kid Kokomo" Sandifur. 
Pfeiffer, with a height and reach advan­tage in his corner, has two unanimous victo­ries behind him and has showed impressive control along with a powerful punch 
Sandifur could spell trouble for the sec­ond-seeded Pfeiffer if he remains aggres­sive. 
Attacking early. Sandifur handily disposed of the No. 1 seed in a well-fought semifinal outing and could provide a third upset in the finals. 
-Kerry Smith 

HEAVYWEIGHT 
~ 
vs. 
GREG SALVINO YATAROLA 


-
PICKS 
KATHLEEN LOPEZ Salvino ALLISON KRILLA Salvino KERRY SMITH Salvino KEVIN THOMPSON Salvino 
David v. Goliath. Balboa v. Creed. 

John "The Pitbull" Salvino bulldozed through the competition in his first two con­tests and many pick him to cruise to his first Bengal Bouts title. 
But not so fast. As Salvino dominated his competitors this week, Greg ..Rain Man" Yatarola proved he is a legitimate con­tender. His short, compact stance has con­fused taller opponents, but this time he faces a fighter who can match his size and speed. 
If Yatarola avoids a brawl. he can make it 
.-vi) 
three rounds with a chance to win. 
-Kevin Thompson 

page 4 The Observer• BENGAL BOUTS Friday, February 26, 1999 

-



Gaffney may enter record books with fourth straight title 
By TIM CASEY 
Sports Writer 
Entering into the final match of his Bengal Bouts career, senior captain Brian "The Nutty Irishmen" Gaffney has proven that he is no fluke. 
With his unanimous decision victory Wednesday over Ben "Buster" Johnson in front of a large crowd at the Joyce Athletic Convocation Center, the Oakton, Va., native now has a chance to achieve what only a handful of fighters has: four straight titles. 
You could say that Gaffney burst onto the Bengal Bouts scene, surpris­ing many his freshman year. 
In his first match, the referee stopped the contest, not because of a daze ·in Gaffney's eyes but because he drilled Mike Shinners. The fight was called 1:26 minutes into the second round. 
After his semifinal match, people truly began to take notice. 
Gaffney registered one of the largest upsets of that year's tournament, stunning both the crowd and captain Mike Debiasi. 
His controversial split-decision vic­tory over the 6-foot-2 DeBiasi began the legend of this aggressive three­time champion. 
Gaffney went on to record another split-decision victory over Dan Cunningham to capture his first Bengal Bout crown in the 185-pound division. 
Gaffney returned his sophomore year to defend his title, but this time in the 180-pound category. 
In the finals, he met Debiasi. a familiar face, who was now a senior captain looking for revenge. Gaffney was not to be denied, however, recording a dominating performance. 
The defending champion floored Debiasi, knocking him down four times before ending the fight 35 sec­onds into the second round. 
Gaffney aided Debiasi exiting the ring, showing indeed he was a true champion. 
The two-time champ's hard work and dedication paid off last year when he was one of six fighters named cap­tain. 
Along with the title and his rising reputation came enormous pressure to succeed. Gaffney was not shaken. 
In the 175-pound finals, Gaffney once again proved his grit and deter­mination, defeating Chris Dobranski in 
three rounds  to  capture  a  third  
straight title.  
While he did  earn his third title,  

Gaffney endured one of the closest fights of career. 
In Wednesday's fight, Gaffney again felt the pressure of keeping his unbeaten streak alive. 
..There was tremendous pressure," Gaffney said. "Every fight, there's more pressure. It's good though; you feel alive. You're doing something special." 
Gaffney's opponent in the final fight of his career will be close friend and returning champion in the 180-pound division, junior Mike "Guns Don't Kill People, I Kill People" Romanchek. 
Romanchek, renamed "El Pescador," won a controversial split decision vic­tory over Dan Prince in last year's final and recorded a unanimous deci­sion Wednesday over Corey ''I'll Make Your Face Look Like Mine" Clay. 
Gaffney has great respect for his opponent. 
"Mike and I are not only training partners but we are extremely close friends," said Gaffney. "It'll be a com­petitive battle." 
The friends are no strangers in the ring either. 
In 1997's 180-pound semifinals, Gaffney defeated the freshman Romanchek, his last loss in Bengal Bouts competition. Since then, the competitors have trained together extensively, but have not sparred. 
Romanchek is excited for the final and sees this fight as the culmination of a great rivalry. 
"It's going to be a lot of fun. It's something we've both been looking forward to for a long time," said the junior captain and Colorado native. "We have a golden bond out there. It really pulls us together. I think it's the best possible thing that could have happened.'' 
Perhaps the best thing that could happen to this dedicated captain is a fourth straight championship and a place in the record books. 

By BRIAN REINTHALER 
Managing Editor 

Seven fights into his Notre Dame box­ing career, junior captain Tommy Will was perfect. 
In retrospect, he was too perfect. 
After winning Bengal Bouts champi­onships in his freshman and sophomore years, Will advanced to the finals in 1998 for a shot at a third consecutive title. It wasn't meant to be. 
"The big difference between (the first two years] and going into last year was [that] your expectations of how good you should be have raised so much," Will said of his streak-breaking loss to Lucas Molina, who Will had defeated in the 1997 finals, in last year's 135-pound championship. "It's just because of the fact that I had won twice and you feel like maybe you have to win again." 
Will may indeed win again. The senior captain and president of the boxing club is the favorite in this year's 145-pound division. 
He has advanced as expected through the quarter-and semifinal rounds. After disposing of Zach Fulton Monday, Will went to work on Jim Shacklett on Wednesday. Will used his strong hooks to overpower both, winning unanimous decisions. He is set to face Mike Maguire in the highly anticipated finals match. 
Will knew he had found his niche the first day he spent at the boxing room in the bowels of the Joyce Center. "My R.A.· in my section convinced me to do it," Will recalled. "And so I went, and after the first day, I loved it." 
In 1996, Will stormed onto the Bengal Bouts scene with impressive victories in his first round and semifinal matches. 
A-, he faced off in the finals with fel­low freshman Michael Mccurdy, there was already a buzz about the winner going undefeated for four years. The pressure was on, but that did not con­cern Will. 
"You've got like no expectations of yourself," Will said of his first-year title run. "Every fight you win, you're like, 'I didn't know I could do that, wow!' So you can't go wrong. If you lost you prob­ably would have been like, OWell, I guess I lost. Maybe I wasn't better than that guy.' It's a win-win situation." 
On a night he said he will never for­
... 

get, Will won a unanimous decision over McCurdy. 
Will's pride and dedication proved valuable during the following year's Bouts. After a tough first-round match, Will defeated junior Sean Sharpe in a high-tempo, pressure-packed battle. 
"That was the only time I walked down the stairs after the fight and my legs were like wobbling," Will said. "I really spent myself." 
Will went on to claim his second straight Bengal Bouts title, improving his overall record to 6-0 by defeating Lucas Molina in a thrilling, but contro­versial finals match. Molina, a flamboy­ant fighter in the ring, disagreed with the judges' decision. 
"[Will's] eyes were swollen, and just looking at him, I knew I had won the fight," Molina insisted after the match. 
It was more than Will's impressive stiff jab that earned him the split-deci­sion victory. Molina's flashy in-the-ring routine intimidated most opponents, but Will was unfazed. 
"He's sayin' a prayer in his corner, then he gets all hyped up, doin' all this crazy stuff," Will said of Molina's fancy footwork and showmanship. ''I'm like, 'that doesn't mean a thing when it comes down to boxing.' 
Will studied in London the following fall and missed the novice workouts for the 1998 season. Will knew Molina would seek redemption and he found himself, for once, at a psychological dis­advantage. 
"You hate it so much right when it happens," said Will of his loss to Molina, "but then you look back on it and you realize that sometimes that's the best thing that could have happened to you at that point in your life. I think it helps you grow and makes you realize your weaknesses." 
With his final fight on Friday, Will intends to keep the 1999 Bengal Bouts championship in perspective. 
"It's my last chance to do this ever in my life," Will said. "So I just want to make every second of it awesome. You just want to leave knowing that no mat­ter what, you gave it 110 percent. You didn't leave anything in the ring. And then if [another championship] comes along with that, that makes it maybe complete, or perfect." 











