
¦ New one-cent postal increases create ¦ An era in American sports will likely end today, 
Wednesday

a rush for stamps. when Michael Jordan is expected to officially announce his retirement. 
JANUARY 13, World & Nation • 5 
Sports• Back Page 
1999 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 65 
¦ SECURITY BEAT 

Winter weather keeps Security on toes 
l\y MICHELLE KRUPA 
N~w, Editor 

Over 40 inclws of snow and sub-wro L1!111pcraturns postl(l tho biggest 1mibh1ms for Nolrn llanw Sncurily/Polico during Urn Univm·sity's wint,•r vacation. 
"Tlw hrnak was pretty uneventful." the dt•pnrlmPnl's assistant director Chuck llurlt1y said. "Thnrn was so much cnld and snow lhal most pnoplu didn't HVCH1 VPnturn out." 
Sinrn students lwgan returning Lo South Bt•1ul on Sunday. snow-covnred automohil!•s anti unstartable car battPr­ius hav<i kept oflicflrs busy hdping on­campus ri-siclenls. 
"We can jump-start your car. We can provide dilforent numlmrs to help you if that doesn't work," llurley said. "Rarely do wn comp across la car] that can't be jump-started." 
Studirnts can acquire shovels t.o unearth cars buried in snow from the Security building near the D6 parking lot. Hurley also noted that Security can contact the Grounds department to aid any student having difficulties clearing his or her vohicle. 
!\lost streets just outside campus boundarins have been designated as sec­ondary priorities for snow clearing, according to Stacy Kirkendoll, South Rend Streets and Sanitation dispatcher. 
"The first priority is the main drags, which we did (Monday night!. We're working on tho secondary streets (Tuesday morning!," Kirkendoll said. 

The Observer/Kevin Dalum 

Three weeks of snowfall piled atop automobiles has confronted many students return­ing from winter break. Students may borrow shovels at the Security Building, and Notre Dame Security/Police will help students jump start vehicles and can aid with 
snow removal. Assistance is available at 631-5555. 
¦ STUDENT GOVERNMENT 

"WB're mostly doing the secondaries at night." 
City plows and salt trucks have encountered difficultiAs when servicing residential areas where cars are parklld on streets, according to' Kirkendoll. Any vehicle impeding the plowing of streets or violating signs denoting city snow ordinances will be ticketed. 
"Tim plows will go down the streets even with cars there, and then once the cars are moved. they'll plow again," he said. 
Off-campus students should not expect complimentary help from Notre Dame Security/Police, since their residences fall outside the dApartment's boundaries. Tho South Bend Police Department does not offer any services for jump-starting, towing, snow removal in private areas or 
'WECAN JUMP START YOUR 
CAR. WE CAN PROVIDE DIF­
FERENT NUMBERS TO HELP YOU IF 
THAT DOESN'T WORK. RARELY DO 
WE COME ACROSS [A CAR] THAT 
CANNOT BE JUMP-STARTED.' 
CiIUCK HURLEY ASSISTANT D!RRCTOR ND SECURITYIPouCE 
de-icing of' frozen locks. 
Turtle Creek Apartments, like most other local apartment complexes, pro­vides parking lot plowing for its resi­dents, but cannot offer other services likll towing or lock de-icing for liability reasons. About 10 parking spots have benn covered by plowed snow in the Turtle Creek lot, according to manager Both Hoffman. 
"Parking spaces are being lost, but we Just can't afford to ship lthn snow] off the 
see SNOW/ page 4 

WWW. N D.EDU/-OBSERVER 
Former prof readies for campaign 
The Associated l're5s 
WASHINCTON 

Bill Bradley, a visiting profossor of public affairs at Notre Damu last semester, has of'f'lcially thrown his hat into the ring for 
the 2000 presi· dential race. 
Just a month after forming a prtisidential exploratory committee, Bradley, a for­mer New J1irsey 


senator, official-Bradley ly stepped into the race for the White Hous() today by filing a statement of can­didacy with the Federal Election 
Commission. 
Tho Bill Bradley Presidential 

Exploratory Committee will trans­
form into the Bill Bradley for 
President Campaign, and Bradley 
joins vice president Al Gore in tho 
race for the Democratic nomina­
tion. 
For now, it's a two-person licld. 
Two other prospective candi­

dates on the Democratic sidtl, s1rn­
ator Bob Kerrcy of Nebraska and 
senator Paul Wellstone of' 
Minnesota, have decided not to 
run. 
House minority leader Hichard 

Gephardt, D-Mo., has not decided 
wlrnther to run imd may choostl to 
romain in the House in hopes of 
becoming speaker should 
Dflmocrats take back the majority 
in 2000. ~ In forming his exploratory com­
mittee Dec. 4, Bradley left littlo 
doubt he would run. Tho former 
see CANDIDATE I page 4 


Online book sales offer students an alternative 
By ANNE MARIE 
MATTINGLY 
A\\j~w11 Newi Fdiror 
Stud1•11ls may IH' able lo savn 1110111'y and avoid l1assl1• during this SPll1Pstcr's book purchasing s,\ason by using a nnw or11i1w hook salP ITf\ilL('(I by student gowrm111•nl. 
"You posl what you wanl to 1-mll fon tlw siti•I," said stud,ml lincly vim prnsidenl J\ndnia Sclak. Thn scrvic11 was first mad,• availabll' twrorn Christmas and will be lwavily publiciznd this week and rrnxt, iu:cording to Sduk. 
StudN1Ls can much tlrn sitn via tlw student guvl'runrnnt homepage at www. nd .l'<lu\-studcnls. 
"I sec it as a grnat way for students to save monoy on both unds," said student body prnsillent. Pntnr Cl'saro in a press rcln,se. "Those selling hooks ran got more money for tho books than tlw bookstoni would offur. At thu samo time, stlldPnl.s huyin!{ books onlirrn can !ind them for substantially (PSS than tlw bookstori\ would try to sdl thmn.'' 

Sophomorn stucl1!11t govern­mnn t W!'bmastnr .Joe Sheplwrd was responsible for snt.ting up the site\, 
"If' stud1•11ts could sell to 1mch other, it could save a lot nf' people a lot of momiy," he said. 
"To me ltlle bookstore] is the pm·foct example of monop­
oIy. We have to buy from them," Shepherd continued. "Thorn's no other choice for students. They just don't have 
any options, and thore's no compPtition." 
Though the program is availablP this scnrnstnr. the final product is far from what clcsigrrnrs had onvisioned. Shnphnrd and othors involved in tho project had hoped to allow stud,rnts to search by subjnct and professor. but computers capable of running HH• original. morn cnmplkatfld program dosigned by senior Jen Kaminski were unavail­able. 
Instead, the software is cur­rently running from Shophnrd's personal comput­er, and he reports that the bookstore's potential functions -including lists of the required texts for each class 
see BOOKS/ page 4 


page 2 
¦ INSIDE COLUMN 

And the Next President is ... 
Hegardless of whether or not Clinton is boot1)d 
out of the Oral. er, uh, Oval Otlice it appears that 
our next president will be Al Gore. I am not trying 
to pose as some neu-Nostradamus, I do have my 
roasoning for this. Let me explain. 
Throughout our history the American electorate 
has tended to choose a president that reflects the 
mood of the nation. Aft<'r the Revolutionary War 

and the Civil War America 
faced an uncertain future. 
The people railed upon 

Washington and Grant, their 
heroes from these wars, to 
lead them once again. 
As the nation moved 

toward grass-roots democ­
racy and the empower­

ment of the common man, Eddie Llull 
the people turned to Viewpoint Editor 
Andrew Jackson. Jackson 
was not regarded as a man qualified enough to 
fill the position of his high-profile predecessors, 
but that's what the people wanted -a common 
man. 

l low about President Eisenhower? Ike played 
golf during his two terms and the American peo­
ple could not have been happier. All Americans 
wanted after WW!l was to settle down and have 
babies. They didn't need a lot of hype from 
Washington -and they knew they wouldn't get it 
from Ike. 

The euphoria created by I.he steady fifties gave 
the American people a feeling of promise for the 
future. We needed a young, vibrant president to 
lead us into the new frontier. We chose John F. 
Kennedy. But the sixties would prove to be much 
different than the fifties. As Vietnam, sex, drugs 
and Rock 'n Roll rocked the nation, the presiden­
tial situation spun out of control. Kennedy was 
shot, Johnson declined to run again, Nixon ... well 
you get the picture. 

Trying to find some sense of normalcy and 
integrity as a nation after a crazy spell that lasted 
well into the Ford Administration, we elected a 
born-again Christian, peanut farmer in '76. But 
then we decided Carter was too boring, so we 
turned to the glow of Hollywood and the business­
minded Reagan for eight years. 
I could go on, but at this point you're probably 
wondering where Gore fits into the picture. Let us 
turn, therefore, once again to President Grant. 
Grant's Administration was plagued by scandal. 
Whether or not he was to blame, the American 
people needed separation from the stormy seas 
that were rocking Washington at the time. They 
no longer wanted a national hero, or a dynamic 
personality. The next two decades, or so, follow­
ing Grant gave us dull presidents -men most 
history students have a hard time remembering. 
Enter Al Gore. 

In light of Clinton's never-ending list of scan­
dals, Gore has found a degree of separation -for 
the most part. Despite the on-going soap opera in 
D.C., Clinton remains relatively popular with the 
American people which also bodes well for the 
vice president. But the nation is growing tired of 
the rotten stench that is wafting out of the 
nation's capital. It has become hard to distinguish 
between our newspapers and tabloids. It's time 
for a tranquil, non-confrontational presidency. In 
other words, we need a boring leader. Who better 
than Al Gore. 

The other possible candidates that are slowly 
emerging are far too dynamic. Sorry Sen. 
Bradley, maybe if you hadn't been an NBA star. 
For those hoping for another Bush to lead them, 
well then maybe its time to pick up and move to 
Texas. The thought of having a president where 
the life of every inmate in the country is at danger 
is far too invigorating. 

No, history speaks for itself. So, sit back, relax 
and prepare to catch a few Zs as we venture 
onward into the new millennium with Mr. Gore. 
The views expressed in the inside Column are those of lhe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
¦ Too,w's STAFF 

News Scene 
Derek Betcher Emmett Malloy Maggy Tinucci Jen Zatorski Laura Rompf Graphics Sports Scott Hardy 
Kathleen Lopez Lab Tech Viewpoint Liz Lang Eddie Llull 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday througl1 f'riday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of che A.'i:-,odatcd Press. All reproduction rights :J.rc rcsavc:--d 
The Observer• INSIDE Wednesday, January 13, 1999 




utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Secret Service investigates Ohio University student 
¦ UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA-IRVINE FDA approves lyme disease vaccine 
IRVINE, Calif. 
Infecting approximately 10,000 Americans every year, lyme disease may soon be eradicated with the creation of the nation's first vaccine by a UCI researcher. The vaccine was approved for immediate release by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) on Dec. 21, 1998. "The action by the FDA is an important milestone in the prevention of lyme disease," said Eddie Gray, vice president and director of LYMErix, which is the company reproducing the vaccine. Lyme disease is currently the nation's most prevalent tick­borne illness. Realizing that this disease needs to be quickly controlled because it affects so many Americans, Dr. Alan Barbour's work has recently led him to uncover a solution. Barbour's development for this vaccine began with the isolation of the bacterium that causes the disease in 1981 while he worked in a National Institute for Health laboratory. 
¦ UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN Police withold warrants in brawl 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. 
Warrants have not yet been requested for Michigan football players allegedly involved in a light outside the Sigma Chi fraternity house early Friday morning. Michigan football players Jason Brooks, Ray Jackson and William Peterson were seen by a witness and Sigma Chi members involved in the incident that occurred outside the fraternity house. Since the case is still under investiga­tion by the Ann Arbor Police Department, it is not known when or even if warrants will be requested by the police. "That all depends on when charges are filed" by the fra­ternity members, AAPD Sgt. Michael Logghe said Monday. A fraternity representative, who asked not to be identified, said several reports were filed with the AAPD. "It's now in the hands of the legal system," he said. Washtenaw County Prosecutor Joseph Burke confirmed that warrant requests had not yet been filed with his office Monday. 
¦ Sourn BEND WEATHER ¦ NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, Jan. 13. 
Wedn~sday 
cr1t1t 


Thur~day Friday Saturday 
FRONTS: 
.................... ~

' C 1999 AccuWeether, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY

Sunday 
, '!' .. •.-.... ,,,, • .,_ ...J 
~5'"\\ "'V ,. 


High Low Showers Rain T~11torm11 Flurries Snow Ice 
Atlanta 61 46 Des Moines 10 4 Omaha 16 3 Baltimore 49 38 Fargo 1 -15 St. Paul 6 -11

~;;}Q,r~JA:f.18~ tt ~ u 

Boston 38 32 Kansas City 16 10 Seattle 51 42 
Showers T-storms Rain Flumes Snow /co Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 

Chicago 20 12 New York 45 35 Washington 50 40 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNel 

¦ UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA-Los ANGELES 
Boron proven to destroy cancer cells 
LOS ANGELES, Calif. 

After years of research, UCLA scientists have discovered a compound, boron-to, which selectively and efficiently destroys cancer cells. UCLA chemist Frederick Hawthorne's discovery "could lead to a radical form of cancer treatment that selectively kills cancer rather than good cells," said William Pardridge, a professor of medi­cine at UCLA. In the 1960s, researchers began to examine the use of boron to eliminate cancer cells. Since then, boron has proven an effective adversary against cancer in clinical trials, said Hawthorne. Boron neutron capture therapy is a practical treatment because unlike traditional methods, such as chemotherapy and radiation, it does not endanger healthy cells. "Boron is like a land mine, in place to destroy, but inert," said Hawthorne. When a neu­tron beam reacts with boron, nuclear fission occurs, split­ting boron into highly charged destructive ions. 
¦ PENNSYLVANIA STATE UNIVERSITY Low loan default rate aids students 
STATE COLLEGE, Penn. 

The Pennsylvania Higher Education Assistance Agency (PHEAA) recently recorded the lowest loan default rate of the 44 major student loan guarantors. The rate of 1.96 percent is a positive for both students and other taxpay­ers. The low rate means that 260,000 student borrowers who might normally default on their loans were able to make payments. It also makes borrowing money easier for all students. "Fewer defaults make the risk lower, so (interest) rates are more reasonable," said Keith New, PHEAA spokesperson. When a student defaults, New said, federal tax dollars are used to pay off the loan. By keeping the rate of default low, PHEAA saved taxpayers $774 mil­lion last year. PHEAA is the government agency responsi­ble for providing financial aid to students. Should a bor­rower be unable to make payments on a private loan, PHEAA will reimburse the lender. 
''One of the businesses had spotted one of the counterfeit bills being issued and gave a description [of Swieton]." 
"A uniformed officer located him then," APD Investigator Jeff' Gura said. 
Through communication with other Uptown businesses, Taco Bell general manager Carmaletha Byrd said her store received word to watch for counterfeit money being passed. 
Two more counterfeit incidents occurred in Athens last week, but nei­ther have been traced to Swieton. Hocking Valley Bank reported coun­terfeit $20 bills were received in a deposit on Jan. 6 and another coun­tm'foit $20 bill was received at Red Wagon early last week. 
Swieton's alleged actions during the Taco Bell transaction lead workers to be suspicions of his money, said Byrd. 
"He was obviously nervous and 
ATHENS, Ohio 
After a search of his Wilson.Hall room turned up more than $5,000 worth of fake $20 bills, an Ohio University freshman is being investi, gated by the U.S. Secret Service for allegedly making and passing coun­terfeit money. 
John Swieton, 19, was charged Jan. 7 with carrying a false or altered identification and forgery, according to Athens County Municipal Court records. 
The case was brought before Athens Municipal Court Judge Doug Bennett Jan. 8 and then was dis­missed when the state showed inter­est in it. 
The state no longer has jurisdiction and Swieton now could be charged on the federal level, Bennett said. 
The Secret Service is investigating the incident but cannot discuss it because il is active, Shawn Young. a Secret Service spokeswoman, said yesterday from Washington, U.C. 

Last week Athens Police Depa.rtment oflicers investigated com­plaints filed by the Hocking Valley Bank, 23 S. Court St., Taco Bell, 41 S. Court St., and Red Wagon, a vendor on E. Union Street. 
On Jan. 6, Swieton, of Clarendon Hills. Ill., allegedly passed one coun­terfeit $20 bill at Red Wagon, accord­ing to an APD report. The next day he allegedly paid for food at Taco Bell with another counterfeit $20 bill. 


Wednesday, January 13, 1999 The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Participant testimony praises Urban Plunge 
By ALISON HEINZ House working with two l'a.mi­are for men only and often counselors. frozen beards and red hands, N~w~ Writt·r lios living there. and was allow families rooming priority "Tho homeless people were sleeping bags on their backs, impressPd with tlrn diversity of over single women. very nice to us. lt seems that but they look you in the oyo 
Whilo many Notrn Dame stu­circumstances she encoun­"Nobody wants to be home­they loved having someone to and wish you a good morning. dPnts spent their winter ski­tered. She was shocked to less. It's hard. These people talk to and som1-l0ne who They smilA and they say ing, eating, working, and learn that both parnnts of one are normal, some have just wanted to hoar their stories. 'Ploaso· and 'Thank you.· They shoµpiug, 260 sludHnts partic­l'amily lrnld college degrees. had very bad luck," Gu.rza They were so u.ppreciative," have nothing but l didn't hAar ipated in Urban l'ltmgn, a 48-Another rnsidont at tlrn house said. she said. them complaining." hour nxpnriPncn in which stu­was a flood victim Ford's reaction Before taking the plunge. dnnts livti 1rnd work amoug tho who was having a was similar. eai;h student is given a course honwlnss at a vari!\ty of agt•n­hard time getting back "Even though I had packet to read about welfare,
'THESE PEOPLE COME IN WITH FROZEN

ci1is, cnutnrs, rhurclws, and on his feet. a pretty good idea of single mothers, and other 
BEARDS AND RED HANDS, SLEEPING

slwitMS. , Late.r pa_rts of what I was going issues ol' homelessness. Upon This program has grown in (,arza s service con­BAGS ON THEIR BACKS, BUT THEY LOOK YOU into, I was the comp!CTtion of the 48 popularity at tlrn University sisted of waking up al impressed by how hours, each student writes a
IN THE EYE AND WISH YOU A GOOD MORNING,

and is now a tradition. with dawn, dressing in sinr.ern these people 6-page paper and attends a morn than :HJ00 studnnts hav­donatf)d clothes f'rom THEY SMILE AND THEY SAY 'PLEASE' AND are. Thny really couple of follow-up meetings. ing µarticipatntl to dat,1. th(1 slrnl tor aml head-'THANK YOU.,,, want to work. One When asked if they would Although thn original Urban ing downtown lo find guy was there recommend Urban Plunge, the Plunge program bngan in a meal from a soup Lrz DDNNEU-FINK because he was no participants answered with a 
Chicago ;m years ai,;o, it is now kitchen. After oaling UH!JAN PJ,UNGH PARTICIPANT longer able to work strong affirmative response. availablP at 70 sit(!S in :iO lunch nnder a bridge>. as a chef after ,he Ford thinks that his experi­citi11s. "Garza and another was hiL by a bus and ence will have a long-term 
Mor<• important lo tho par­V(rjuntecr l'rom tlrn suffered brain dam­effect on his life, shaping his ticipants than the orrn crndit slrnftc)r lookPtl for a place to Sophomorns Jill Boroneic age. ft can happen to anyone." decisions in a number ol' ways; tlwy l!arn by rompltiting all shower and stay for the night. and Scott Ford speut their 48 Liz Donnell-Pink, sopho­he plans on rnturning as a vol­llrhan l'lung1: is lhP insight Finding food was nol a difli­hours in thfl Urhan PlungR morA, who participated in unteer this summnr. i.1\!'y g,tin through tlw hands­cu lty f'nr her, but very few program at the Crossroads Urban Plunge at The Catholic Students interested in par­on 1ix1wric11c1•. plai.:ns would let single women Emergency Cimtcr in Detroit. Worker House in Detroit, says ticipating in fuluro Urban 
Sophomore \1onil·a Carza stay, said Garza. The majority At Crossroads. Boronoic sal in that the poople she worked Plunge programs can find spnnl two clays al th1i .San o/' llrn homeless are rniddle­on inteniews between the with inspired her. information at Lim Cm1Uir for i\ n ton io Catho Ii(: Workc r ugnd men and many sheltors homeless and the center's "These people come in with Social Concerns. 
Is your friend's birthday 
Ameal so good,it already comes with seconds. 

Try our tasty Two-Fors. 
2burgers. 2small fries. Just $2.22. 
(Pnce and participation may vary.) 
The Huddle • Wortune Student Center 
~ 
BURGER 
KING 
It just tastes better. 



Ballet 
•
Beginner and Advanced classes 

•Students 
are instructed according to their level 

•
The fun way to stay healthy and fit 


Classes Meet:  
Beginner  Sundays  l :00-2:30pm  
Thursdays  6:30-7:45pm  
Advanced  Sundays  2:30-4:00pm  
Thursdays  7:45-9:00pm  
Pointe  Sundays  4:00-4:45pm  

All classes will meet at the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 
Information Meeting Sunday, January 17 1:30pm-RSRC Activity Room 2 
O 1998 'Burger King Corpora11on. Burger King Corporn11on 1s !ho nxclusIve llconsoo ot the registered Bun Halves logo trademark, 

Register ill advance at RecSports Registration Jee is $35./J0, Pointe class is only $5.00 Sign ups begin Monday, January 18, 8:00am Class begins Sunday, January 24 Space is limited 

page4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, January 13, 1999 
transition, all of the work we immediately available for com­had done was lost. If we're going ment.
Books Candidate Snow 
to put effort into developing pro­Bradley, 55, has carried the 
continued from page 1 
and the option of online pur­chasing -greatly exceed the student government site's capa­bilities. To further develop the program's capabilities, Shepherd says that more help is needed. 
"We have no help. I think we can go somewhere with this later, [but] I don't havP. the com­puter knowledge to set up some­thing this huge," he said, 
"We tried to do a lot more," he continued. "(Larry! Rapagnani (Assistant Provost for Information Technologies) told us he'd help us, but. it didn't come through," said Shepherd, who claimed that Rapagnani mentioned hiring a professional web developM to work on the project. 
But Rapagnani faults the stu­dents for the lack of Office of Information Technologies (OIT) support this year, stating that he asked students for a plan to ensure that the program would not be abandoned bv future stu­dent government administra­tions after the University had invested lhe money. Rapagnani said that had students provided such a plan, OIT would have bncn receptivn and willing to do what it could to help but that after making the request stu­dents did not contact him again. 
"We have historically expend­ed money to help students do things on the web," he said. "The problem is that there's no continuity with [student govern­ment] officers." 
Rapagnani explained that an book sale was established three years ago, but that due to a lack of communication between administrations, students contin­ued to see him year after year to establish a system already in existence. Finally, when the stu­dent government web page was redesigned, the pre-existing pro­gram was deleted. 
"When [student] governments grams, there has to be a com­mitment to carrying these things over," he said. 'Tm not willing to spend resources to develop the same thing again." 
"ff there's no methodology to carry this on, what happens to it? It dies," he continued. "The whole concept of underground book-selling is a very valuable idea. One would hope that stu-­dent government would sec this as a value-added service and continue to support it." 
continued from page l 
New York Knicks basketball star and three-term senator has already made fund-raising trips to California and else­where and has assembled a campaign staff. 
A press release from his campaign said Bradley plans a formal public announcement of his candidacy by early spring. He had no public schedule today and was -not 
Help save a tree. Please recycle The Observer. 

January 23  -4:00 PM  Deadline  -January 21  
February 6  -10:00 AM  Deadline  -February 4  
February 13 -2:00 PM  Deadline  -February l 1  

Clinic held at Notre Dame Golf Course Register in Advance at RecSports $5.00 Charge Wear Layered Clothing and Warm Gloves 
Equipment Rental Available -$4.00 Charge 

,Z?ec:-~ 

presidential aspirati,;rns of his supporters since his college days as a star basketball play­er and student at Princeton University. He was a two-time All-American player for the Tigers and won a gold medal with the 1968 Olympic basket­ball team. 
Supporters hoped Bradley would run in 1988 and again in 1992, but ho demurred until now to make his move for the America's highest office. 
fitne~~ ~chedule 
I  12:15-12:45  
2  12: 15-12:45  
3  3:15-4:15  
4  4:20-5:20  
5  5:30-6:30  
6  4:25-5:25  
7  5:30-6:45  
8  12:00-1 :00  
9  I: I0-1:30  
10  3:00-4:00  
11  4:15-5:00  
12  5: I0-5:30  
13  4: 10-5:25  
14  5:25-6: 10  
15  7 :20-8 :'.Warn  
16  4:00-4:45  
17  4:55-5: 15  
18  5:25-6: JO  
19  5:00-6: 15  

continued from page l 
property anywhere," she said. "This is just sort of an act of God, and we'll have to deal with it." 
Off-campus students with car problems should contact a pri­vate service station. Prices for towing range from $35 to $45, and jump-starts can run from $25 to $45, according to repre­sentatives from three South Bend service stations. 

~ 
RSRC Activity Room I Step I M/F Cardio Box W Step I M/W/F Step II M/W/F AeroStep M/W/F Cardio Combo T/Th Step II n' Sculpt T/Th Step II Sa All Abs Sa Cardio Choice Su Stt:p II Su All Abs Su 
RSRC Activity Room 2 Cardio Sculpt M/W Lo Impact M/W Cardio Choice T/Th Step I T/Th All Abs T/Th Flex & Tone T/Th Dbl Stepn'Sculpt Su 

ROCKNE CLASSES {Room 30I l  
20  6:35-7:20am  Step II  M/W/F  
21  4:30-5:30  Hi Intensity  M/W  
22  12: 15-12:45  Flex & Tone  T/Th  
23  5:30-6:30  Step II  T/Th  

~pring 
1999 
$22 $12 $35 $35 $35 $22 $30 $12 $10 $12 $12 $10 
$30 
$22 
$15(until 3/4) $25 $15 $22 $15 
$35 $22 $22 $27 

AQUATIC CLASSES (Rolfs AquatlC Center) 24 12: 15-12:45 Aquacise M/W/F $22 25 6:45-7:45pm Aquacise T/Th $22 
Registration begins Thursday, January 14, 7:30am, RSRC. Classes are open to NDstudents, staff, faculty and their spouses. Registration continues throughout the semester. Schedule is subject to change. Minimum of 12 class regisrants. Any ?s, call 1-6100. 
I I I I 
I 
i i 

MEET WITH ERNST & YOUNG ON CAMPUS 

University 
of Notre Dame 

MANAGEMENT CONSULTING OPPORTUNITIES 
They're in touch, in transit and in demand ... on-site, on-line and on-the-move ... improving businesses, e~vrsioning future technologies and driving change ... thinking outside the box, designing solutions and deliv­ering value to customers. 
They're Ernst &Young management consultants, and they're going places -making a global impact in one of the most dynamic fields of tne 90's and beyond. 
As an Ernst & Young management consultant, you'll help companies from Fortune 1,000 giants to Silicon Valley sta_rt-ups explore new strategies, methods, markets and technologies -long before others are even aware theyexist. 
Of equal importance, while you're learning and achieving, we'll put all the strength of our industry-leading c;>rganizati~):l behind yo~r own career development. With 13,000 consultants delivering ideas and solutions rrom 89 offices worldwide, we provide an unparalleled world of resources and the opportunity to grow and learn with a proven leader in today's business. 
Please forward your resume to: EY Careers, Dept. 10296, 113 Terrace Hall Avenue, Burlington, MA 01803; Fax Toll Free to Dept. 10~96: 1-877-4EY-JOBS; or E-mail: dept.10296@eycarecrs.com. Please be sure to indicate the department number on your cover letter and resume for routing purposes. Please visit our web site at: 
http://www.ey.com. No phone calls please. 

al ERNST&YOUNG LLP 
Ernst & Young LLP, an·equal 1.)/lflll'rlunity emJ)lnyCT, values the diversity of our work fi,rce and the kuo«•hlae of our /).:ople. 

Wednesday, January 13, 1999 
¦ Wouo Nr W~'. Brmi s 
Alcoholic treats scare parents 
C/\NBEHIV\, J\ustralia 

J\11 J\ustralian company's brainstorm ­sidling ir.1• pop,. with ,L kick of alcohol -is g-dting a fr11sty n·i:Pption fr11m parnnts and govornmPnt. ol'lidals who f'nar that kids will gnl. llrnir hands 011 tlu• pownt pops. Noxt 111011111. tlw Mdh11urnn-lias1·d l.iquor Pops rnmpany plans lo <lPhut tlw l'rnwn snacks larr•d with six-pc-r1'.trnt alcohol in l1avors such a.~ l'llia, nwlo11, pi1wappl1, anti ornngi,. Tlw an101mt of alrohol in tlw irt! pops is highm­lh11n J\11slralia's full-strtingth bnPrs, which typit·.illy lw\·t• an ail'.olwl 1'.011tnnl of h11twn1~11 l'our and l'ivP pPrt·tint. Cnraldi,w Burkfl. a spokPswo111an for th1· Vidorian h~dnration of Stat1· Sl'iiool !'an•nis Clulis. said childn·n will i11Pvifahly g11t hold of' t.hn 11nw product. "I think it's jt1sl an absolut.11 ploy for underagP akol1ol t·o11su111plio11," sh(' Silid. llealth MinistPr Midtaf'I \\'ooldridgt• urgPd fl](' com­pany 111 n·1'.011sidPr tlw plan. "Fntidng young p1•op!P, Ps1wcially pr1•-tPPns, with a confoc­t io11Pry typP produ1:l whi!-.h is lact\d wilh ali'Olwl is 1111co11s<·ionablP," Wooldridgn said. 
'Oprah' hero shot in robbery 
Mll,WJ\UKEE 

J\ WP11agt•r who was cl'lPbratml as a hem> 011 "ThP Oprah Winf'rny Show" lhrnc years ago was shot to doath in what relatives lwli<wc• was an atttimpt to rob a drug house. Lal'aydli, Clark, 17, was slain Sunday night. J\nollwr teen-ager was wounded. Police are invnstigaling. but Clark's mother, Lorraine /\IIPn, said, "lie didn't agrne with people doing drugs .... I think he was going to take lhoir morniy." She added. "We lost control." Wlwn he was 14, Clark saw a boy being kid­nappPd and chased Urn car. lie wrote down its license plate number, the house it stopped al. descriptions of' llw man and the boy, and wm1t to police, thwarting the abduction. l'olicn gave him ·,rn award. Winfrey slrnw­castid him. Of1icnrs wantod him to join their ranks. but lw said Im planned on becoming an ard1itnct. 
Quayle criticizes Clinton 
WASHINGTON 

l•ornwr vim presidr-nl Dan Quayle, a likely <;op pn•sidPntial candidate, said today that national security should be a major issue in llw 2000 campaign and ol'fnrcd a critical asst!SsmPnt of' l'r,isidenl Bill Clinton's foreign policy. "No prnsidcmtial candidatn should be 1.aknn snriously unlnss lw or she un<lnrstands ll11• importance ol' fornign polky," Quayln (old thn <·onsPrvativ,~ Ilnritagn Foundation. 11,i rPf11snd to critiqun potential rivals, but said in an intPrvi.-w af'tnrward when asked ahoul TPxas (;ov. Gnorgc W. Bush's l'ornign polky abilities. "Clcmrly experience helps. I don't ,wnd 011-tlw-job training." Quayle said tlw Clinton administration "fritt1wed away" oppo1·tunitit•s lcf't by his boss. former l'ri,sid1•11t (;norgn Bush. 




··um n;a 
Dow 
AMEX: 
699.65

JONES 
1:~7.67 Nasdaq:

9474.68 2320.75 
-<,i.84 

D 
NYSE: 594.59 .•).45 S&P 500: l2J9.51 
Composite
-24.)7 
Volume: 

-145.21 8.178,000 
VOLUME LEADERS 

nndP4.NY ll( KEH 'Kt("UANOF IUMN PRIC'F 
WAI 11>11:>.l.11 ll Ill.> +701, -,.2jlJl)0 .l7.rnKl At-.11.IUC A llNl.lKI ,\t.>1. ,(1 K'I -11.1750 IS;U,250 I rlll,IH.)UI' ( l.111! l.,"iilOO s1,.2~m1 ('.{'~l',\l2 n,1 -l h2 -17:>fKI 4<,.6250 1;11/FSII ,; ,J,,4J14 +2.i.\?~ S5.rnKMI Al~d(Pk!' I I '7 1.2:',()() K.J..0000 11/,1\1. MANIIAI IAN CMlf. .,21):,i ,2.25fKI 'i.J,(){)tkJ Ml l\f.\\UN C'OHJ' ~WK ,/..1.l •U 12~ K4.0R7~ IUCINI I.U ·•U7 ·4.1U7~ 1(11{,0000 MAI If.I. MAl . j lJ) +OAJ75 23.IZSO 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
¦ :'UGOSlAVIA 


AsSOCIATED PRESS 
BARE, Yugoslavia 
In an abandoned schoolhouse in the 
northern mountains of Kosovo, 
patched with plastic sheeting and heat­
ed by a wood-burning stove, Yugoslav 
officer Dragan Jugovic crushes out a 
cigarette and stares at the wall. 
"We are waiting for things to hap­pen," Jugovic tells visitors. "We know · nothing." 
Since last Friday, Jugovic and seven 
of his men have been hidden in Bare, 
less than 25 miles north of Pristina, 
Kosovo's capital. They are captives of 
llrn rnbel Kosovo Liberalion Army ­
and the focus of the latest tlashpoint in 
the separatist province. 
The KlA is demanding that some of 
its members held by Yugoslav forces 
be released in exchangr, for the sol­
diers -something lhe army is reluc­
Lant to do. International mediators said 
Tunsday they have negotiated the sol­
<lier's release, which could come as early as Wednesday. 
All eight captives appeared in good condition to an Associated Press Reporter and Associated Press Television News -the only foreign media allowed to visit them. Boredom and fear seemed the biggest immediate enemies -when not smoking, the hostages kneaded their hands, or cracked their knuckles. 
But mostly, they waited. 
Seated on a raised platform piled with mattresses and blankets that serves as a bed, Jugovic and a soldier from his unit, Nikola Cvijovic, said they were being well-treated. 
"The gentlemen from the KLA ... treat us right," said Cvijovic in broken English, his voice shaking -either from the excitement of seeing people from the outside or because of the menacing presence of armed guards in the room. "Everything is OK." 
Jugovic said the KLA stopped their patrol after they unknowingly strayed into rebel-held territory. The eight were under orders to locale and deliv­er supplies to a Yugoslav military vehi­cle that had flipped over. 

"We expected to find the vehicle, but didn't," said Jugovic. The KLA found them instead. 
"The KIA stopped us and disarmed us," Jugovic continued. 
"Then they brought us here. Since we have been here they have behaved very, very correctly," he said. "We get food, cigarettes, everything we need." 
Prompted by a KL/\ commander in the room, who stood guard with six of his own men, Jugovic explained they had been allowed to listen lo a report from state-run Yugoslav rndio, that said the rebels had ambushed their patrol. "That is not lnm," Jugovic said. 
"If we had wanted to fire on them, we would have done it," said the KIA commander, who rofused to bti identi­fied. 
One-cent stamp causes commotion 
ASSOCIATED PRESS sold 40.000 of the 1-cent ·· (JS; 'Posfal Service has wit• first in four years, mny stamps on Saturday. On"•J:1,essed ·spot shortages in have caught some poopl~1 WASHINGTON Monday, he picked up /SQID{}.. pl<1,Ces, . off guard, even though the Customers across thf' another 40,000 'from his .... l•we wantpeople to btiy first 33-cent stamps went country are jamming post local distribution center.,< al many H~ent stamps as on sale Inst week. H's the offices clamoring for them, By Monday aftnrno(in,, it.,,, thr,y ne.Qd," said Roy Botts, Chinese Now Year stamp sometimes demanding needed to replenish a~ai11..•.. Postal Servipe spokesman. commemornting the year thousands at a time. "We didn't realize how" But "th.,,re's no need to of the hare. In addition, And they are only worth quickly. they would go out." , stf!ckpiie l-cent stamps. millions of undenomilltlted a penny . Cashon said, . They'U always be there.'' ''If' rate stamps aro avail­
On Sunday, the postal Cashen is surprised at The Postal Service Is able at post offices to cover rate of a basic first-class. bow lnng peopte are willing.,, r~upplyjng 1-cent stamps the 33-cent rat~i. letter increased from 32 _to wait just to. pick. up some .. t9 those officcs that are But at the Grand Shelby cents to 33 cents, making 1~cimt stnmps. One· cus.... ' nmning low, Betts said. Post Office in Detroit, the 1-cent stamps a hot ticket tomer even came. in and WHb 2.5 billion 1~cent buzz among customers was at local post offices. µought 10,000 of the pm;1I1y stamps printed just for tho . all about the 1•cont stamp. 
"1'hP lines are out the stamps, probably imtlcipat-rri.te increase. there are ~They need to hoard door," sa.ld Danny Cushen, ing a shortage, hes1tid, · plenty to go around, he them," said George Kujan, station managor at the Oak. A1.1d many buying .o.n said, . . . manager for customer st:ir• Lawn Post Office in Dallas behalf of their busjnesses ''.lt_'s no.t a question of vice. "It's a very good pos• on Tuesday, "It's very, very huve picked up sheets and> supply," .Betts said. sibility they think (the strange.'' $he~t~,. ot; the ;.St~inp;SA;; ;Jh~re's.,ampltt~upply," .stamps) won't be there 
Ca.shen said his office D~man.djs _so bigh,.~atJhe...., Jh~ bite' ini:rease, t.he next week." 
. . ... 

page 6 The Observer• NEWS Wednesday, January 13, 1999 
Midden: Four candidates remain for SMC VP spot 
By M. SHANNON RYAN 
Sainr Mary's Editor 
The pool of candidates for Lhe position of Saint Mary's vice president and dean of fac­ulty has been narrowed down to four, according to student body vice president Nancy Midden at Tuesday night's Board of Governance meeting. 
Candidates' names have not been released. The final four were chosen after a search r,ommittee of eight faculty members and Midden inter­viewed candidates during Christmas break. 
"It's still an ongoing 
¦ WASHING··
Cl·i• 
process," Midden said. "It's been very exciting and very tough. They are all very quali­fied candidates." 
During the next two weeks, various BOG members and other students will meet and interview the fourj)Ossible replacements.-The students will complete evaluation forms with their opinions. 
"Every opinion carries equal weight," Midden said. 
Georgeanna Rosenbush, director of Student Activities, who also encouraged any stu­dents interested in meeLing and interviewing the candi­dates should contact her. 
The search committee was formed at th(' h<'ginning of the year to replace Dorothy Feigl, who has been dean of the College for 13 years and previ­ously a professor of chemistry. 
In other BOG news: 
• Rosenbush announced that Saint Mary's will host 28 col­leges and universities during the annual Play of the Mind conference, marking the high­est attendance for the confer­cnce. SixLecn uf the schools are co-educational institu­tions, while the remaining i2 are women's colleges. 
Rosenbush said that hosts are still needed for Play of the 
President Clinton µiaile<;i a che~l(for$650,00Q to Paula Jones on:'fiue~daY-to' se'ttle bet sexual· harassment.aJlegatmns:-t.ftfoiall}'ending thec.setb sational legal battle th.at cast his presidency into crisis. 
In the week his Senate impeachment trialwas to resume, the pr~id~t.prew a,boW.$375,000 from his and Hillary Rodham Clinton's personal funds. and got.the'resfofSthe(~ettlem.ent. about $475,000, from inJ'ris\l.ra:11,ce,.i:roljcy,.a White House official told The Associated Press. 
~This ends it. 'I'h~ph~c~.js Fedi Bill M.cMUlan,· one"igf'.Jq,oes official, who spoke o.n con · 
The official Ji 
rawn · .offitfi~ C'Hnt6n?;bl 
valuodin .theitfi.nanmak · between $1 million and about $J, ofthe morie}l,vas drawn from his 
·fund, which raises money from ptwit.e to defray his legal,hills, tlle o{fici.,_l s~d7, Still unclear is how much money f chetk will make it into Jones' bank ace · the settlement was reached ill N-0vemb . still faced ai.i outstandipif cla1m hY,. Cammarata and GilbertlJaVis, the twowho quH her case Jastye~f-artrt··•· $800,000lien against any set'l!m~ef in 
•· ·coll~ctlegal fee:;.> >i ... > .. >; ./ 8i 
.. '"I ~drin'tthi.nk it's been'dedcl$d.yet·Jones.·.will r.eceive, .said h.~ft'tjen ·· ~\lS,?,n Garpen~rMcMflle.p. + ·· ·· 

Mind, which runs from Jan. 21 to Jan. 24. The theme this year is "Global Citizenship and Intellectual Life." Instead of the traditional keynote speak­er, the conference will open with a "multi-media conglom­eration reader's theatre" which highlights "the influ­ences of other cultures," Hosenbush said. 
• The elections committee is preparing for the upcoming student body and class elec­tions. Bridget Heffernan, elec­tions commissioner, announced that informational sessions will be held at 9 p.m. on .Ian. 20 and 21 in the Hagaar Game Boom. 

Students will have an oppor­tunity to meet the class repre­sentativc candidates on Feb. 22 before the Feb. 25 elec­tions. 
A "meet-the-candidate night" will also take place Jan. 20 and 21 for student body candidates before students cast their votes on Feb. 4. 

Modern Dance 
The 20th dentury,danceform that rebelled against ballet. A barefoot expressioiii$tlt; ehergetic study ofmomentum, space, range ofmotion and creativity. 
Classes meet: Saturdays 11 :00am-12:30pm Tuesdays 6:30-7:45pm Activity Room 2-Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 
Information Meeting: Sunday, January 17, 2:30pm Activity Room 2-Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 
Register in Advance at RecSports-$35.00 Fee Sign-Ups begin Monday, January 18, 8:00am CLASSES BEGIN~ SATURDAY, JANUARY 23 No Experience Necessary. Space is limited. 
ATH• ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING• MECHANICAL ENGINEERING• BUSINESS ANALYSI 
When something is too extreme for words, it's to the Nth degree. And that's the level of technology you'll experience at Raytheon. 
Raytheon has formed a new technological superpower-Raytheon Systems Company, composed of four major technological giants, Raytheon Electronic Systems, Raytheon E-Systems, Raytheon Tl Systems and Hughes Aircraft. The new Raytheon Systems Company is driving technology to the limit. And we're looking for engineers who want to push the envelope. Break new ground. Make their mark. 
At Raytheon, you'll take technology-and your career-to the highest possible level. You'll take it to the Nth. 
We hove a lot lo tell you about the new Raytheon Systems Company and the exciting opportunities we have available. Plan on visiting our booth at your college career fair. If you are unable to attend the Fair then check out our website at www.rayjobs.com and please send your resume to, Raytheon Resume Processing Center, P.O. Box 660246, MS-201, Dallas, TX 75266. 
Internet: www.rayjabs.com • E-mail: resume@rayjobs.com 
U.S. citizenship may be required. We are an e9ual opportunity employer. 

Raytheon 

M • •
Careers F o r The I I I e n n I u m 
ASSURANCE FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT KWASHA TAX& AND BUSINESS ADVISORY CONSULTING HR LEGAL ADVISORY SERVICES SERVICES SERVICES SOLUTIONS SERVICES 
PricewaterhouseCoopers is an Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity Employer. 
www.pwcglobal.com [:~f 
/JR!ClWA1i:RHOUsf[aJPERS I 

·@ 1999 PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. PricewaterhouseCoopers refers to the U.S. firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers LL P and other members of the worldwide PricewaterhouseCoopers organization. 

VIEWPOINT 

THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINI MARY•s OFFICE: 309 1-!aggar, Nocre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EnIT0ll-lN-CHIEI' Heather Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Brian Reinthaler Kyle Carlin 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR Hc:1ther MacKenzie 
N,ws EDITOR ........................Michelle Krup• AnVERTJSINC MANAGER.. ,...•.•.•.............Rryan Lun. VJEWr0INT EDITOR ..... .......... Eduardo Llull AD DESIGN MANAGER ........................1\rerr Hueb1 SrORTS EDITOII......................Karhleen Lope, SYSTEMS MANAGER .....................Michael Brnuiller SCENE EDJTORS............................Sarah Oylag CoNTROLLER .........•...•..•••••.....•••••.•.••.Davc Rogero Kristi Klitsch \X1E8 ADMINISTRATOR ..................Jcnnifer-Brc:;.Jow SAINT MARY'S EDITOR ......M. Shannon Ryan GRAPHICS E0ITOR ............................... Peie Cildla 
PHOTO EDITUJt .......................Kevin Dalum 
rhc Ub:icrvc-r is che mdependcnc newspaper publi~hcd by the s[udems oftht.: Universiry of None Dame du Lac and 
Saint Mary's College. Ir does nm necessarily re fleer rhe policies of the administration of either institution. The news is 
rcporied a.~ .:1a::uratdy and objccrivdy as possible. UnsigncJ editorials represent rhe opinion of rhe majoriry of chc 
Ediror~in-Chief, Managing Editor, A~sistanr Manll;J:!:ing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and 
columns prcscm the views of the authors, and not m.:cess.--irily those ofThe Observer. Vicwpoim space i~ avaiL1ble to J.11 
members ofthe Norre Oame/Saint Mary's communiLy and to all rcadel'l>. The free expression of\'arying opinions 
through letters iii encouraged. 
Contacting The Observer 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Assistant ME 631-4541 Adv~rtising 631-6900/8840 Ncws/Phoro 631-5323 Sysrems 631-8839 Spom 631-4543 f-ax 631-6927 Scenc/S.1inr Mary·s 631-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. l€1nd.edu Day Edi1or/Vicwpoin1 631-5303 Ad E-Mail ohserver@darwin.cc.nd.edu Off.cc ~1anagcr/Gcneral Information 631-?•Pl N<ws E-Mail observer.obsnew,. l@nd.edu 
¦ lll<E ARROWS lN THE HAND OF AWARRIOR 
Newsflash 
INTERNATIONAL CITY (Scienlific Press) 
A dramatic breakthrough in science was announced yesterday in the Auditorium of the Central University. Two new species of near-human 
Gabriel Martinez 
beings were discovered: the Homo Nescius and the Homo Osseus. 
As the glaciers of the Ice Age that put an end tu the Quaternary Age recede, scientists find more and more vestiges of what life was like eons ago. Dr. Francine Mullen, the leader of the discovering team revealed yesterday that she and her colleagues had been able to find. not far north of the Tropic of Cancer. a frozen city, where an unbelievably large amount of informa­tion was collected and examined. Digging through solid ice (much like Pompeii was dug out of lava), the sci­entists discovered an entire civiliza­tion, complete with two previously unknown species, very close to the present-day Homo Animus. A genera­tion's worth of research was upennd up to the world at CU today. The two species appear to have developed from the Homo Sapiens. II. Nescius's defin­ing characteristic is the large orifice in the top of his head, directly communi­cating tlw universe with his brains, and the surprising lack of bones. The nameNescius was given by the team's paleontopsychologist and paleontosoci­ologist, because the H. Nescius tried to be, above all. civil or nice (Nescius: Latin for foolish, ignorant). 
Dr. Michael Newhouse, the paleon­topsychologist, has determined that through the cranial orifice came out virtue and truth, in a supposed effort to absorb everyone else's "virtues" and "truths." ParacloxicaJly, the H. Nescius was remarkably intolerant toward tra­ditional morality and timeless truth. Moreover, the o·ral sections of the brain were remarkably diminished, and the II. Nescius was incapable of uttering the words "truth," "virginity," "sin," or they were unintclligib!P. The II. Osseus showed a surprising lack of 11exibility, privileging adherence to, and debate over minute details of the letter or the Law. especially in matters of liturgy and art. In doing so, he ignored the harder parts where the practice of the 
Law cannot be written down but must 
be learned in the living of it. Just as 
the H. Nescius worshiped civility, the 
II. Osseus worshiped intransigence: 

"Hell," bickering and among their senseless­others. ness, and now Those they are per­words fectly preserved were not for our muse­nice. ums. Let's not Lance repeat their Chu, the mistakes. The paleon­proud people tosociol­who were our ogist, anc<1stors notes thought they that it were great was this because they moral thought they poverty could think. and that so they called 
ruined themselves the IL Homo Sapiens. 
Nr,scius's We are Homo society. Animus. for we Just like have been made his phys-
in the image 
ical and likeness of body, H. God. 

Nescius's worldview was spinelnss (it lacked cojones, as a noted Nescius journalist of the time proclaimed with pride). 
The other specirs, the Homo Osseus, is also remarkable in its anatomy. He had nu join ls. The skeletal structure of the H. Osseus was a solid bonr from head to toe. But the excess of calcium also reduced his vocal abilities, and the words "compassion," and "toler­ance" were unpronounceable: more, both are useful traits, but by making them central the species wrote their own death certificates. The H. Osseus did work, but his anatomy dictated his occupation: human hammers, sledge­hammers, ice picks (very useful in the advanced stages of the Glacial Period), etc. The H. Osseus often perceived that he should be a sledgehammer in moral matters as well, and he hit the gelati­nous H. Nescius every so often, to his great pleasure and in reaction to NAscius's selective intolerance. 
Dr. Chu notes that although the lack of nexibility of' the II. Osseus made him socially sub-optimal, "he actually believed in something, while H. Nescius did not. This alone would have made this curious specimen's society more long-lasting, since it worked bet­ter -well, l(,ss badly." When the Ice Age overtook these species, it put an 
end to their 
Gabriel Martinez is a Graduate Student in Economics. llis column runs every other Wednesday. In case some­body did not get it, the; newsflash is fictitious. But it reflects another kind of reality. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not rzeces­sarily those of The Observer. 
¦ 0.tWTE OF THE DAY 
, Not only is a college 
diploma the key to 
unlocking the sweetest 
fruits of a free society, it 
also confers on you the uni­
versal distinction of adult­
hood: debt.' 
-Vice President Al Gore 
¦ DOONEsmmv GARRY TRUDEAU 

~~ 


ll has been reported in the press for Lim lasl fow years that crime is down by so many ptircnntagn points in tho Llnitml Statns. L1\t us take a closer look at this phcnonwnon that has plagued our society for tho last few d(icades. 
If so, why am wn building more jails, prisons and delnnlion homes !"or trou­bled youth. Why nrnrn police -even in school corridors'' We are virtual prison­ers in our homes and dare not venture aflnr dark bm:ause of the risk !'actor 
home and in the family. We have no time for our children. We have no time for each other. There is no time to enjoy each other. Love lives in homes, and the lack of love causes so much suf­fering and unhappiness in the world today." 
Sen. Dan Coates (l\ep./ln.), remarks: "Broken homes lead to broken lives and broken lives lead to lives of crime." Our overcrowded jails, prisons and deten­tion homes for youth is proof of that. 

I______ 
_ 
-

VIEW_POINT 

_________________________ page 9 
Wednesday, January 13, I999 ----------------­
¦ LETTER TO THE EDITOR ¦ WHAr'S HAPPENING ELSEWHERE ..• 
. 7 
Crime is the Problem, Activism is the Answer 

involved. The number of car jackings is on the incrnasn. Tlrn incrnascd nurnlrnr ol' assaults against women and childrPn, both mental and physical in their h()nrns. At 78, I was a victim. No wit­rwsses. No crime. No statistic. Wn am all vulnerable 1w matter our agH or condition. 
Or, thn hundreds of harassing, obscnnti or threatening phone calls that ani made Pach day al'ross tho UnilPd States, and sonw mav niwnr be rnporl1id, a~d arn rnt'errnd to as vic­timless crimes! Can thnrn be such a thing'? 
As an aside, wn am instructed by a brochure p11blishnd by Tim Bnll 'f<'l<'pho1w Co.. which can lw obtained upon rnquest, that in thn nv1•nt ol' any type of thrPal, surh as harassing c,tlls, obscnnP or thrnalnning phonn calls, threats lo 
'ITHINK THE WORLD IS 
UPSIDE DOWN. IT IS SUFFERING SO MUCH BECAUSE THERE IS SO LIT­TLE LOVE IN THE HOME AND IN THE FAMILY LIFE. WE HAVE NO TIME FOR 
OUR CHILDREN. WE HAVE 
NO TIME FOR EACH OTHER. THERE IS NO TIME TO ENJOY EACH OTHER. LOVE LIVES IN 
HOMES, AND THE LACK OF LOVE CAUSES SO 
MUCH SUFFERING AND UNHAPPINESS IN THE WORLD TODAY.' 
-Mother Teresa 
We can join orga­nized groups such as walks against crime, injustice and for racial peace. Support CRIME STOPPERS. Call 288­STOP. It works, and 911 in case of necessi­ty. Join Christmas in June, rebuilding homes in deteriorating neighborhoods. Clean up the environment 
and beautify America. 
Praise and thanks­giving to the many Fraternal, Civic and other groups that are walking lhe highways and byways of America picking up trash, putting it in plastic bags by the side of the road for the highway depart­ment to take to the dumps in their trucks. So, pitch in. 
Don't forget to vote and write lntters to tllP f'ditor' public om-cm · 1s anc1synct·1catc<l writflt's expressing your opinions for this 

01w's lifo or pr·op!H'lY, lmmh thrnuts, threats to inl1icl harm or injury, threats of' kidnapping or any type ol' thrnal. we am advisnrl hy tlrn brochuro lo hang up IMMEDIATELY, and note tho limn a11d the dato and call the pulice IMMEDI­ATELY and follow llwir instructions. 
What can WI\, tlrn ordinary citizen, do iu rnducing crime'? First and l'ornmost family life in Anwrican sori<'LY must lrn rl\juvnnated with new lifo and meaning. It is of utmost importance that uhscntce l'ath<•rs rPtlll'll to tlrnir God-given rnsponsibilities in tho homn. 
Motlwr Tnresa of Calc11llu (rnccntly dcc1\ascd l. l'oumlrnss of Lim Missionurins of Charity, obs«irVllS Urn modnm family, "l think thn world is upside clown. ·1t is suffering so much becausn thnrn is so little love in thn 
or that issue. 
Work closely with men or women in law enl"orcement and men and women of tho cloth. Attend the church of your choicu and work with your Pastors for them is LIFE IN TIIE SPIRIT. 
Let us all work together in our cru­sade against crime and the battle can be won ii' we do so. Wu will pray l'or all conccrncd besf'cching Divinf' Providence to assist us in our efforts fur the common good of our people and country. 
Brother Edward V. Courtney, C.S.C. 
Columba Hall December 22, l 998 

Dry Versus Wet Campus not as Important as Education 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. 
Throughout the country many uni­versities have been faced with tragic situations affecting the lives uf stu­dents and the community. Many of' these tragedies have been a result of alcohol or other drug IAOOI use. When do we react? How do wc react and who is responsible? 
These are the questions that are being debated throughout tho univer­sity and community. The most rccent debate at the University of Louisville is: "Should the University go dry?" 
First and foremost, the University or any seg­ment act­ing alone will never solve the problem. Everyone shares some sort of respon­sibility. If the University made the decision to go dry without also 
creating a com­prehensive program, we will all lose. # We need a system of • referrals for all violations of the AOD policy similar to the state DUI law. For the individual this allows a professional assessment of their AOO use and for the University it provides a system of fairness. We need everyone to support the programs that are already in place at the University. Also, the faculty and staff need to be educated regarding AOD prevention. Hut most of all each individual has a responsibility in this dilemma Alcohol and drug addiction is a lifestyle-related health issue. How much and how often we choose lo drink are critical to our future health. 

--~-~ 
People with a family history of dia­betes adjust their behaviors to reduce the risk. Even people without a family history of diabetes realize certain actions contribute to the dovelopment of the disease. 
With the disease of addiction few peoplc realizB Urn risk associated with certain choices. Fifty percent of college binge drinkers will eventually develop an addiction. Educational programs 
are available that could help students makn the btist choices for their cir­
cumstances. Awareness pro­grams and "just say no" mes­sages arc lim­
ited approaches for preven­
tion. 
As University of Louisville alumni, we 
would have greatly ben­efited from 
educational efforts. Other alumni lost to tragedy may have benefited from referral pro­

grams. Our vote as alumni is not for or 1 • against a dry campus but to 
implore everyone to get involved in AOD prevention in a meaningful way. 
Carl Boes and /lick McFadden are alumni ofthe University ofLouisville. Their letter, which originally ran in the The Louisville Cardinal on Jan. 12, has f,een reprinted here courtesy of the U-Wire. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe authors and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

The end of the millenium got you down? Speak up! 
Obse er.Viewpoint .l@nd.edu 



Cake 

Prolonging The Magic 
Capricorn Records 
**** (out of five) 
Cake's latest release, Prolonging the Magic, continues along the same road as their previous releases. It's silliness gone haywire. put to that rock/country melody (with horns) that Cake is famous for. As always, lead singer John McCrea lends his stylis­tic "oh yea, all right" to the end of his verses (now accompanied by the occasional "oh no"). Cake began in 1994 with "Motorcade of Generosity", and the single "Rock'n Holl Lifestyle," which mocked the life of concert-goers world-wide. In 1996, Cake made it big with "The Distance," and, perhaps their most popular song so far, a cover of "I Will Survive," both from Fashion Nugget. Now in 1998, they've kept their style (all the way down to the album cover). and kept it all simple. Prolonging the Magic has its own immediate smash hit in "Never There," a McCrea lost-love ballad, "Never There" features a telephone intro­duction and a funky background beat which make it one of the more experimental songs on the album. "Never There" has once again jump­started the band into mainstream radio, and held Prolonging the Magic as MTV's 120 Minutes Album of the Week for the last month. As a whole, Prolonging the Magic is less melod­ically complex than "Never There." "Satan Is My Motor" exemplifies the Cake style (both in melody and lyrics) and has a seriousness under­lying McCrea's wit. "Mexico" follows along the same lyric path, with McCrea contrasting "I had a match, but she had a lighter" and "You say you want me, but I have my doubts." This mixture of the inane and serious flows throughout Cake's third album. In "Guitar," McCrea explains "the way you treat me like the only / slightly brings me down a lot." "Sheep Co To Heaven" manages to take it to even another level. Its lyrics express a depressed state ("I'm not going to smile today/ I'm not gonna laugh"), while the refrain is ulti­mately silly ("sheep go to heaven / goats go to hell"), creating the perfect Cake contrast. 

Prolonging the Magic also includes a few Cake­style absurd songs. "When You Sleep" analyzes where it is "your fingers go," when you fall asleep. "Let Me Go" is a love song gone crazy. where the woman involved explains "let me go, and I will want you more." 
But, let's not forget Cake's serious side. In songs like "Where Would I lfo?" and "Alpha Beta Parking Lot," McCrea attempts a serious, sad­dened tone, but only manages "as serious as Cake can get." Still. these songs shine in McCrea's "failure." 
Prolonging the Magic is Cake as Cake's always been: simplistic, silly and downright good. 
Tim Donohue 
Eleven songs, forty-one minutes. Pre-release word regard­ing this album spun Its release as the biggest thing since The Beatles' Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band. I never cared for "Sgt. Pepper", so I hoped that this might be what the other wasn't. The first single, "Somethin' Hot" gave me my first disappointment. Singer/scribe Greg Dulli's lyrics on this album's opening track establish an insulting tonewhich is felt throughout the entire album. The primary focus of the album seems to be Oulli's insa­tiable sexual desires and the might of his prowess. If one thing can drag down an album, it is lyrics so self-involved tthat they cause the listener mental and physical illness. Additionally, Dulli's narrative style is neither interesting nor original. The Afghan Whigs might be a much better if they were to dump Dulli in pursuit of a less irritating lyricist. The album's music has a nice thick quality that holds solid throughout. The best music can be found on "66", "Citi Soleil", "Neglekted" and "The Vampire Lanois." Exactly what the connection between this album and its patron year is remains to be seen. It certainly fails to form a musical or lyrical connection to my ears. As far as the link to Sgt. Pepper is concerned, I have failed to find anything in this album either rev­olutionary or more than vaguely interesting. Those looking for a good dose of self loathing will do better to stay with l\ick Cave. 
Stuart Smith 





:Vedne:.Jay, January 13, 1999 OBSERVER page 11 


et(6um review 
. ... . !Q .· .·. ·.•·· 
11,1tWIICWT~ MtGHl'Y· 

Bossf'o~ES 

Photo couriesy of Polugram Records 

Mighty Mighty Bosstones 
Live From The Far East 
J>olygra111 Records 
** (out of five) 

UPCOMING SHOWS 
CHICAGO INDIAN.APOLIS 
Black Sabbath  Jan. 19  
Pantera  
Vanilla Ice  Jan. 28  
10,000 Maniacs  Jan. 29  
Enrique Iglesias  Feb. 5  

The Cardigans Lauryn Hill Everdear Rolling Stones Goo Goo Dolls 
Feb. 13 
Gonorally speaking, when one thinks of ska music, the Mighty Mighty Bosstones almost always come to mind. Along with the Toasters and Let's Go Bowling, thn Mighty Mighty Bosstones were one of the first Ameri~an ska bands to make it big following the ska explosion in Britain. The Bosstoncs, Boston Natives. formed the band some 13 years ago and the rest is history. After some five albums, three EPs, countless compilation appnarances and years of non-stop touring, the Bosstones have become one of the most recognized and popular ska bands around. Their ska-core sounds-traditional horns with a heavy rock' n roll to punk sound has redefined ska music and inlluenced many of today's punk and ska greats. Bands like Mustard Plug, H20, the Voodoo Glow Skulls and MU-3:-HJ all list the Bosstones as a primary musical influence. With the huge success of their album Lets Face It, many c,xpectod the Bosstones· follow-up album to be more of the same. For their eighth album, however, the Bosstones did not record a bunch of new studio tracks. Instead, live from the Middle East is a collection of 22 live songs recorded by the Bosstones over a live day stay at the Middle East nightclub in Boston last Christmas. The album itself contains hits from all the Bosstones albums, including "Let's Face It" as well as great songs from the Bosstones older albums liko "Moro Noise," ''Other Disturbances" and "Devil's Night Out.'' Highlights of this album include a cover of' the classic Angry Somoan song "Light's Out" as well as other Boss tones classics such as "!lope I never Lose My Wallet," "Dr. D" and "Devil's Night Out." The album also has newer Bosstones hits like "Someday I Suppose" and "The Impression That I Get." 

Despit!1 all the good things about this album, I think that it's only average when compared to the other Bosstones albums-and below average when compared to other live recordings such as NOFX's I Heard They Suck Live, "The Urgc's rat /Jal)ies In the Mix and Let's Go Bowling's 18 lanes. Besides that, the album doesn't capture the live sound of the Bosstones very well and all the songs have been edited to make the CD kiddy friendly. If you want to 
hear the Bosstones live. then you would bn bet­ter of going to a Bosstones concert than buying this CD. I'm still a fan of the Bosstonos, but think a would-be listener would be better off buying a few of the older Bosstones albums then buying this album. 
Brian Kornmann 

Par the best in s a and punk, tune into 
88.9 WSND FM every 
Thursday night from 12-2. 
Lenny Kravitz Mar. Murat Theatre
Rosemont Horizon New Radicals Ala1ti$ Morissette , Mar.11 Market Sq. Arena
House of Blues 
,,

Celine Dion .Mar. 31 Market Sq. Arena
House of Blues· 
Rosemont Horizon 

OHIO-MICHIGAN
Metro 
Feb. 20-21 Chicago Theatre 
Bob Dyan 
Ekoostik Hookah
Feb. 27 Aragon Theatre 
BB King
Mar. 26 United Center 
Vanilla Ice 
10,000 Maniacs 
Afghan Whigs
SoutL Bend 
Semisonic 

Bob Dylan Feb. 14 JACC 
Semisonic Brian Setzer Orchestra 
John Scofield Quartet Black Crowes

*Tickets On Sale Saturday, Jan. 16, 1OAM* 
Johnnvlang

Rod Stewart April 14 JACC 
Sebadoh 
Jan. 1S Jan. 15 Jan.17 Jan. 23 Jan. 28 Feb. 9 Feb. 9 Feb. 10 
Feb. 18 
Feb. 21 Mar. 1 Mar. 4 

Y.A. Arena (Grand Rapids, Ml) Magic Bag.(Ferndale, Ml) 
.. 

Fox Theatre (Detroit, Ml) Harpos (Detroit, Ml) Citi Theatre (Toledo, OH} Bogarts (Cincinnati, OH) Odeon (Cleveland, OH) Mekka (Columbus, OH) Ark (Ann Arbor, Ml) Taft Theatre (Cincinnati, OH) 
....... 

State Theatre {Kalama100, IN) Bogarts (Ciudnnati, OH) 
,. 
Wednesday, January 13, 1999 The Observer. GATOR BOWL 
Jackets stun Irish comeback 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ 
Sporn, Ediro, 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. 
Donning green jerseys and recalling glories of the past, Notre Dame emerged for the game ready to reclaim its place in the top ranks. 
Coach George O'Leary and Co. had another idea. O'Leary, 1998 Atlantic Coast Conference Coach of the Year. commanded his team to a 5-28 win. haulting a Notre Dame comeback. 
"Anytime you win a bowl game. you go into the offseason on a positive note," O'Leary said. 
O'Leary ended his season with a 10-2 record and estab­lishing Georgia Tech as a rep­utable program. The Yellow Jackets jumped out to an early lead when quarterback Joe Hamilton pitched to tailback Joe Burns who then completed a 5-yard touchdown toss back io the quarterback. The play marked the first completion for Burns and the first reception for Hamilton. 
0etermirn~d to quarterback his 10th win of the seaon, Jarious Jackson marched his team down to the nine-yard line on his second offensive series since coming back from his knee injury. Then Autry Denson worked his magic and got the Irish on the board, mak­ing the score tied at seven a piece. The drive was highlight­ed by the 33-yard Bobby Brown reception, marking Jackson's longest pass of the game. 
''I thought it was a game where you waited for good things to happen," Georgia Tech's 0'Learv said. 
O'Leary didn't have to wait too long for more good to come his team's way. In the second quarter, Georgia Tech built a two touchdown lead off a nine­yard Hamilton pass to an open Mike Sheridan. The previous drive was capped by a two-yard Phillip Rodgers run. 
''At some point, we had to stop them and we never did," Irish head coach Bob Davie said. 
By half, the Georgia Tech attack amassed 250 yards on 40 carries. Notre Dame gained 129 yards on 28 carries. Overall, Davie evaluated the lrish's performance as poor. Determined not to go down in front of the Gator Bowl's largest crowd, Davie rallied his troops and mounted a second half comeback. 
Jackson and Denson teamed up to be a dangerous force for the Irish. as they led the team on the next two drives. Denson made deep cuts into the Jacket's defense as he ran for 54 yards in the sequence and scored the touchdown igniting the comeback. 
On the ensuing kickoff, Tony Driver recovered Georgia Tech's fumble on the Jackets' 26-yard line. The ground attack appeared more intense for the Irish in the third quarter behind the leadership of 0enson and Jackson. Jackson finished the all-rushing sequence with a 2-yard run fo another six points. Jim Sanson's puin t after attempt was blocked leaving Georgia Tech ahead by one. 
This was the closest Notre Dame would come to dismiss­ing Georgia Tech. Yellow Jacket Dez White's 44-yard touchdown reception killed any Notre Dame momentum left at the end of the third quarter. As he boosted the team to a 28-20 lead. 
Notre Dame attempted to rally off the Denson touchdown and two-point conversion early in the fourth quarter which tied the score. 
As if the first touchdown wasn't enough, Georgia Tech's White scampered into the end zone in the fourth quarter on a 55-yard reception, sealing his team's win with his second big play. 
The Irish ended their season 
with a 9-3 record, which is the 
best since under the leadership 
of Holtz in 1993. Notre Dame 
finished No. 22 in the AP poll. 





• 
Photos by John Daily and Kevin Datum 
NOTRE DAME 28 
GEORGIA TECH 
35 

ALLTEL STADIUM JANUARY 1, 1998 
The charge is 3 cencs per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
WANTED  ing address to jobs@glcpark.com for an application. Check out our web site at  WALK TO SCHOOL  PERSONAL  We missed you more than any clas­sified could express.  Raindrops keep falling on my head. Photo Joe  
Which would you choose?A morn- www.glcpark.com to learn about the  2-6 BEDROOM  Rumor has it that there are Kessler  
~­ ing commute filled with heavy traffic or a thrilling ride down a white waler rapids.Hassling with an overcrowd­ed beach at a local lake or hiking  opportunity of a lifetime. FOR RENT  STARTING $165 MONTH/PERSON 232-2595  WELCOME BACK! Happy Birthday to the Mac Daddy!  calendars available for sale. Get them while their hot. That's Hsu. no! Tsu.  He is corning No he isn't  
with wildlife?Summer with the same old crowd or meeting your new best friend?Life is full of choices.Let us ofler you ours. St. Mary's Lodge and Resort,Glacier's finest is now hiring for the 1999 summer season.Call  HOUSE FOR RENT. TWO BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. 4-5 BR. Available June tor Summer, August for Fall Dishwasher. Washer/Dryer, Full Basement, Large Backyard and Off Street Parking. MONITORED  FOR SALE Beautiful brass bed,queen size,with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe frame New.never used.still in plas­tic.$225  You are getting oldl Wet bleu cheeseburgers on a ripe salty sunset. I like the smell of a treezerburn in aisle nine of Meier  It is all your fault. None of your pie-lures were in focus. Frosty and his evil sidekick Got to love the beach.  He was too lazy to walk over here He may no longer be my favorite That is too be determined You better shape up buddy! I!!  
(800)368-3689 to schedule an inter­view or e-mail your name and mail·  SECURITY SYSTEM INCLUDED. CAii 289•4712.  219-862-4043  This is a big shout out to my favorite Photo Joe. Welcome back!  Here is to Australian love.  

page 13 The Observer• GATOR BOWL Wednesday, January 13, 1998 
¦ IRISH INSIGHT 
Seniors end collegiate careers -without a bo-wl -win 
l~y JOEY CAVATO A,,nciate Spom blirnr 
Tlw 111110tio11 in Alllnl Stadium ran as high as the m11olio11 in a sn:rw from Ilavs ol' Our Livt)S. 
Om• onlv ,w;ids lo tak,, n l1mk at th<> batlln in tilt' trf'llchns a11rl a sruflll' lwlWP!'ll Notn• lla11w sl'nior l.uk!• l'l'litgoul and T1,cli's Natn Stimson af'tnr lhn :J:,-21< (;"orgia Tneh victory in Lill' Cat1ir Bowl 
l'Ptitgout had jusl wilrwssPd giddy ·rt,r.11 plnynrs dump watnr 011 thnir hoad 1·oad1; sonrnlhi11g l'l'ligo11L wislrnd lw was doing with his dassmutt,s to cddmttn tlw rC'lurn ol' Noll"l\ l>anw f'ool­llllll 
lnsll•acl of' giving Irish lwad coal'lt Boh Davi!' a shuw1•r. l11·till{11tll gav1• Stimson o,w. 
"I go up Lo shakP orw 111' tlwir lwmls. I said, ·c;ood gilmi,,'" Sli111so11 told l111· TimPs-Union. "II" has a 11wuthful of wat,,r and 111• spits in my l'acP. That's llH' kind of pl1tyPrs tlwy arc." 
TPa111111at<·s and coarhns rPslrainPcf Sli111s1111 whilti ht' gaVP Notn• Danw playPrs a dil"­fpro11t kind ol' grl'ding with his li11gi•r. 
"llt> was doing son11• dirty stuff," !'Pt ilgout told llw South B1•111l Triliunt>. "I I<' ripp<id tn)' lwl111d off unc•p; spit in my fa1·n 11ho11l four linws. lw'd try to takP my IH'lnwt off and pokt> nw in tlw 1•y<'. If lu•s that kind or a playc•r and lhP way lw tri,~s lo play, that's his dPal." 
UnrorlunatPly <'llWtion got tlw lwsl ol' l'Ptilgoul and hP madn that styli• his ciiml. 
"'foah I spit in his l"ac(' ,tiler llw ganw," l'dilgoul said. 'Tm not going to sit tlwrc and takn that from him, not aftPr !ming spit in tltl' f'acP four or fivn Limos during llw gamP." 
l'Ptigoul wasn't tltl' only 01w who saw Stimson's handy work. Tlw officials llaggpcl Stimson with a personal foul al'tcr he atlPmptnd a I lulk I logan move .Jarious .Jackson allor thn play. 
B11t Petitgoul's antics gave Stimson sorm, ammunition to lirn at rnport1irs. 
"It's tho clrnapHst offnnsive Jinn we'vn pl11y11d all ynar," SLi mson sai<l. "I haL1i Notre Dume morn lhan I 1lid before. They think thny'rn so m11ch bnt­lPI' than nvnrylJody elsn. In the ACC Florida Slaln and Virginia arc buth bdtcr than Notre Damn," 
This coming from a player whose school band plars thP. lat­est J'rom .lock Hock and who play tlrn BudwPisnr song al tlw 1111d of llm third <JUartN. 
But Stimson did 11Lt<1r some words of truth that no Irish plnynr cottl<l say. wt>ll at lnasL not yN. 
"This symboli:.ws tlw rcsur-rec­tion or tlw c;«)orgiu Tech pro­gram," Stimson said. 
Tlw frustration of not lrning abl11 to say thos,~ words in rnfer­eric1, to Notrn Dame football probably addt•d to l'otitgout's 
l'llH>tions. 
Toch rack(icl up a 10-2 record and named u spot in thn top ten for tlw first time sincP 1990 whPn they split Lh!\ National Championship with Washington. 
Nolrn 1Ja11w linislwcl <J-:~ and with a fourth straight howl loss. 
1Javi1) bcliov«1s Im has righted tlrn ship and has thn program !wading in th1• right dirnction. 
But there is much work lo be done. 
One word was spoken in posl­ganw talks with the nrndia more than any otlrnr phrnsn, except mayh11 for Dez While. Thal word was "foundation." 
"This is not the time to philos­ophize," Davi«i said in the post­ganw prnss conference. 'Tm not going to stand them and make 1)v1wyo1m l,H;I good because we lost lhe gamn." 
"But I wanted our seniors lo know thoy am part of this foun­dation that I really feel like we have right now and that better things urn ahead." lw r.ontin­ued. "Even though they aren't gc,ing to bo hem. they are a part of it. Wn cam1• down here with our heads high and we're going to !nave with our heads high. In the big picture we'vn made a lot llf progress hut it slings right now." 
After the showers soaked in, Autry Donson anti Mikn Rosenthal wr.re able to fook past not winning an bowl game in their earners to Davie's "Big Pir.ture." 
"We did a lot ol' positivn things," said Dnnson who fin­ished his brilliant r.arncr with a typical Denson clay: 130 yards and three touchdowns. "The biggest thing we can take rrom this is the youngnr players have a lot lo build on." 
"!L's kind of a bilt,:rswcct feel­ing for us," Hos1rntlml said. "Wo rt'alize tbat wn havn hr.lp<.'d the youngnr guys and have he!pnd the program get back to where it should lrn. but wo also we wanted to Im a part or that and w0, can't.'' 
Densnn and Hosenthal's best playing days arr probably still alrnad ol' them in thn NFL as they will go on to bigger and better things. Ilopcfully so will tho Notni Dame football team as this year's leadership gave the team a sense of what a 10-win s1mson requires. 
Denson spoke of sacrifice, commitment. and dedication to the weight room while Hosenthal discussed everyday effort and developing together­ness. 
"I think (tho program) is in good hands with Urn coaches, tlrn guys that are coming back," Hosenthal said of the future. "They arc guys that know how 


Seniors 
continued from page I 
tlH• dass or I1) 1JCJ strugglnd to finish its ,. ,11'" Pr w i Ih a ha II g. CPo r g ia T 1w h appPan•d intl'nt on lilling its program to IIPW lu•ights at llw PXpPnsP or tlw Irish. and mairngPrl to spoil .larious Jackson's 1·1111wlwck. Whili• split PtHI Malcolm .lohn~on p1·hoc•d tlw st•nlinwnts ol' manv ol' his t.-ammalt•s, LPlling a group o·r rqiort«•rs. "al Notn• l)anw Uwrn arP no moral victoriPs," tlw dav·s frustrations 1ivPrshadowPd som!'· lllltstanding 1·arPPr-P11ding pt•rformancPs. 
Sim·,· SP! ting foot on campus in llw fall or I<J 1J:i. Autry 1l,•nso11 may havn ('O!lll' tilt' l'art!wst or 1111y play<-r. 1ll'gi11ni11g his <·ari•,•r 011 spp1•ial lPams and as a corrwrbark, lknson mov1,d to t!J,. offp11siw si<lt• of tlw ball, and 1wvnr look1·cl ha,·k. Thi' sdrnol's all-tinw lt•ad­ing rush1•r addPd I:m yards lo his total with a sln111g 1wrforma11n· i11 the Gator llowl. Whc•n .la1·kson struggli,d to find ltis rhythm. lk11:11J11 wa:; tlwrn. 
A11cl paving llw \.\'llY for tltn r1•cord­Sl'tti11g rnshing attack was a m,unr1rnl h 01TP11sivt' li1w l1•d by ,;nnior captain and all-i\111l'rira11 Mik,• Hos1·nthal. Tlw lio11ll'grnwn product logg,•cl morP mi11­ut1•s tha11 any non-starting li1wman in his first. yP11r. :rnd ronlinuPd to improvo, solidif.vi11g a !inn that lwl<l its own 1w1,n in rl,•fpat.. 
lld<•nsivP!y, tll!' Irish struggkcl to ro11tai11 1111• YPllow .lack1its, but s1•11iors Kory Minor. BolihiP l!ownrd and limmy l-'rid11y wouldn't go down without a right. 
Minnr, l hP I1J94 USA Today I)pfpnsivP in sacks. 
l'layPr or tlw Ynar, showed an 1loward and Friday lrarned the tricks a captain slot during the 1998 season. Tho Gator Bowl loss may have b1H\II 1111n;utrhPd ronsisti•ncy throughout his ol' the tradn from the likns of' BPrt RNry Other sPninrs like Bobby Brown, another disappointmnnt l'or tho class or f'uur-yPar rarnnr. /\s a l'rc,shman outsid1• and Kinnon Tatum, before mu.king llrnir Ilunler Smith and Benny Guilbeaux will 1CJ<JCJ, but like those groen jcrspys, lin!d1a1:k1•r. Minor startnd 11 or 12 own marks as blue-collnr lineback11rs. be difficult to replace bccauso of their they'll never shy away from the big ganrns, and !i11ish1\d snco11d on tIm tram The undrrsizcd Howard translated his positive attitudes and willingness to game. 

to work. know how to win and on," Denson said. "Whal we did know how to get things done. this rear is we laid the founda­They've had a taste of what a tion for the younger players to .Ian. 1 bowl means, and they build upon." know they want to be back and We'll have to wait until to get bigger and better things." Scplembnr lo see ii' they can 
"With this bowl game and this take advantage of that founda­season we gave the younger tion. classmen something to build 
efforts into production that earned him pcrsevern in light of advorsity. 
-


-

We're looking for thinkers. Not just their diplomas. 
It's all about makin,g an impact. If interested in interviewing for full-time or summer internship positions please submit a resume, personal data sheet, and transcript to Career and Placement on Monday, January 18 and Tuesday, January 19. 
You know you're more than a piece of paper. You're bursting with ideas and insights that can change the world of business. And at Andersen Consulting, we want them. 
As a leading global management and technology consulting organization, we bring our insights and ideas to world­

...­
01998 Andcr,~n Consulting. All rights reserved. An equal opportunity employer. 
class clients to help them achieve profound change. After all, it takes powerful ideas to align strategy with people, process and technology. 
We'll provide first-rate training and guidance, and expose you to a variety of projects and industries. All of which builds a solid foundation for your future . 

Take this opportunity to talk to us about yourself, and most importantly, your ideas. 
Visit our Web site at www.ac.com 

Andersen Consulting 
page 15 
The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, January 13, 1999 
AP that .Jordan summoned 

added a nearly unstoppable at u news conference as the stars, but somewhere beyond
teammates Scottie Pippen and fadcmway jump shot to his arse­team·s vice president for bas­tho NBA today them will beHon Ilarper to his home to dis­nal. and after a rigorous ketball operations. But Floyd, a some players to come who will continued from page1 cuss the team's future. woight-training and condition­longtime favorite of Krause, be grnat pluyHrs."Jordan retired from the Bulls ing program. he came back the was widely thought to be the 
Jordan 
Whether there will be anotheranything els!' is spoculation." the lirst lime in October 1993, next season bP.tter than ever. coach-in-waiting, and his hiring with Jordan's worldwide And Llrnre's been a consider­saying he accomplishod every­The Bulls then set off on 
may have further aggravated appeal, though. remains to he 
ubln amount or that ever since thing he wanted to in basketball another three-peat that ended Jordan's relationship with the seen. After Magic .Johnson and .Jordan hit the final, thrilling and planned to devote morn last June in Utah with Jordan team. 
Bird helped lift pro basketball's

shot in (;ame 6 of the NBA time lo his family. Instead, he stealing the ball and making the For whatever reason, his 
profile in the early 1980s,

Finals in Utah to lock up the spent 1994 playing minor game-clinching shot in the final decision to retire leaves the .Jordan took it to the next level
Bulls' sixth championship of the league baseball for the Double­seconds -one of the most NBA in the lurch. Coming off a almost single-handedly.docade. That speculation inten­A Birmingham Barons, a farm memorable 
divisive labor lie also took the game itself
silind last week, when the NBA team uf the Chicago White Sox. sequences of his fight that left 
above the rim, inspiring the

players and owners reached a The budding outlield prospect mrmorahle 
fans more generation of players who fol­
Sllttl!!fficnt lo 1H1d the six-month lcf't baseball in the spring of career. 'IF HE'S FlNISHED, WE'RE 
apathetic lowed him to devise more and
lockout. 1995, rather than get caught up It was precise­THE ONES WHO ARE AT than angry, more spectacular moves. 
.Jordan turns 36 nexl month. in another labor squabble ly the lack of off­Jordan was Every night of the NBA season
A LOSS, THE FANS WHO

Tho live-time lnague MVP led ·between owners and players, season work this the one yielded a bonanza of highlight­
Lim NBA in scoring 10 ti1m1s and and returned to the game he past summer 
ENJOYED HIM AND THE drawing reel clips nnd when they wore
avt,ragnd 31.:> points per gamn, loved. that made many 
PlAYERS WHO PLAYED WITH card that packaged on sports programs,
best in league history. While his skills were still con­of .Jordan's 
could have the league's popularity soared
With NB.A players preparing siderable, Jordan quickly teammates HIM AND AGAINST HIM.' helped the along with the players.l'or an abbreviatecl season to learned he could no longer doubt he would 
league Jordan also pulled players
begin Feb. 5, Jordan was dominate the game the way he return. 
regain its salaries into the stratosphere as nxpnctud to announce his plans once did. The Bulls were · "He prepares JERRY COi.ANGELO popularity. 
well. He mado more than $30

before training camps opened knocked out of the postseason as well as any­SUNS OWNJ:..1? He refused million in each of thn last twoMonday. fin had been in the in the Eastern Conference semi­body but from to be labeled 
seasons and players like

Bahamas on vacation. but finals by Orlando. all I hear, he's 
the league's Shaquille O'Nflal and Kevin 
rntunrnd lo Chicago earlier this But Lhen, just as he had in been playing golf and going to caretaker, but when he came 
Garnett rode his coattails to 

week. /\1101.lwr sour<'.<\, who also every previous offseason. the Bahamas," teammate Steve back the first time, Jordan said secure $100 million deals. 
rcqunstcd anonymity, told the Jordan went back to work. lie Kerr said recently. "Unless he's it was partly because he wanted Last June, Fortunn magazineworking out in a hidden gym to teach some of the younger totaled what it called "The somewhere down in the players how to comport them­Jordan Effect," putting his Bahamas, I don't think he's selves -both on the court and impact on the economy, since
http://www.aup.edu/html/summer.html I 
rually preparing lo play." off. 
r 20th anni11ersary in pr011iding ·ty summer education. 
rench Immersion rt History ing for Film. Filmmaking 
, 75007 Paris, France Fax (33/1) 40 62 07 1 7 
'"'l\111...~2) 983-1414 

joining the NBA in 1984, at $10 Jordan had always vowed to ulf he's finished, we're the billion. It calculated he sold an leave the game on top. and in ones who are at a loss, the fans extra $165 million in tickets for 
private moments, he would con­who enjoyed him and the play­the league, and deliv1irnd an fide that watching Wi!Jie Mays ers who played with him and 
extra $366 million in revenue, stagger under fly balls long against him," Suns owner Jerry mostly in added TV money and after his skills faded was a pow­
Colangelo said. the sale of merchandise such us erful lesson. "I do believe the game is very jerseys, hats and posters.
There were several other fac­resilient. Having been in the Nike, among the most promi­tors that may have weighed on league for 32 years, I've seen us nent of the dozen or so compa­his decision. Jordan feuded with at different cycles, up and nies who hired him as an 
genural manager Jerry Krause down. I've seen a concern about endorser, has sold more than for years and, at the end of the who is going to replace stars at 
$2.6 billion in .Jordan-related 

last season, when Phil Jackson that time. Thank goodness products.said he wouldn't return, Jordan there have been new players to At the start of his career, the said he wouldn't play for anoth-take the places of the great 
Bulls averaged only 6,:j65 fans er coach. · 

stars of the past." per game. In his third season,
During the summer, the Bulls But, Colangelo added, the team b(lgan a string of sell­hired former Iowa State coach "Recognize that he is by himself outs that reached 542 consecu­Tim Floyd and introduced him when you talk about great tive games. 
-

Wednesday, January 13, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 16 
-¦ HOCKEY 
Irish stun top-ranked Sioux, climb to fouth in CCHA 
By TED BASSANI 
SporisWmer 
After 1998 ended on a down note with four straight confer­ence losses, the Notre Dame hor.key team began the new year looking to get back on track. The only problem was, it had the daunting task of having to righi the ship in the worst possible place. The Irish were in North Dakota against the tOi)-ranked flighting Sioux. 
Furthermore. they would have to take on North Dakota minus dcfcnseman Ryan Clark and left wing Dan Carlson. Clark's sea­son ended prematurely on Dec. 23 when he underwent surgery to repair a dislocated shoulder; Carlson missed the series in North Dakota to play with the United States Junior National team. 
Jn the first game against North Dakota. Notre Dame's first con­test in nearly a month, the team came out flat. As a result, the flighting Sioux pui ihe gamP away early with three goals in the game's first 1.:41. Notre Dame outshot 44-16 by the end of the 8-1 thrashing. 
Following the first game, the previously ninth-ranked Irish found themselves in the after­math of their fifth straight loss. 
"We were down 3-0 a minute and forty seconds into the game," head coach Dave Poulin said. "We saw things we hadn't seen in two years 'The question we all asked each other after the game was, 'Was it an aberration or wasn't it?'" 
"He [Coach Poulin) wanted some answers," senior captain Brian Urick said. "He thought we were intimidated by their num­ber one ranking. They came out flying and we were caught standing around watching them." 
Following the team's worst loss since January 1996, they had something to prove to them­selves and to the nation. 
The second game against North Dakota started out much like the first. At the 3:58 mark, the Fighting Sioux jumped out to a 1-0 lead after a power play goal by Jay Panzer, one of two power play goals on the night for North Dakota. As Brian Urick put it, the Irish were able to "weather the storm" as they entered the second period only down by one goal. 
The second period started off right, as Urick managed to tie the game. Later in the second period, John Dwyer, David Inman and Chad Chipchase each netted goals within a span of 
3:15 to give the Irish a surprising three goal lead. 
The Fighting Sioux scored a 
goal late in the second period 
and another one late in the third 
period. They never managed to 
tie the score, thanks to the bril­
liant play of the Irish defense 
and goaltender Forrest Karr, 
who finished the night with 35 
saves on 38 shots. 
"Their forwards had greal speed going wide and our defcnsemen played their angles well," said Urick. "florrest made · some great saves and he covered 
up the rebounds." 
The win in North Dakota 
stands as the biggest win in the 
history of the Notre Dame hock­
ey program. as it was the first 
time the Irish ever defeated a 
No. 1 team. 
Following a short week of 
practice, the Irish resumed their 
conference schedule by finishing 
up a seven-game road swing in 
Howling Green last Friday night. 
Urick and his teammates under­
stood the importance of the four 
conference points up for grabs 
last weekend. 
"Coming into the weekend, 
both games were ·must-win· 
games," said Urick. "We had lost 
four straight in the league and 
we needed to get bm:k on a roll. 
We came in thinking that any­
thing less than four points would 
not be good enough." 
As Carlson returned to· the 
lineup, he made his presence felt 
early on as he set up sophomore 
Ryan Dolder's first period goal to 
give the Irish the early lead. 
After Bowling Green tied the 
game on the power play, senior 
defenseman Benoit Cl.itnoir 
scored what turned out to be the 
game-winner on the power play 
at the 10:43 mark of the second 
period. 
Cotnoir also added an empty­
netter to ice the game as the 
Irish cruised to a 4-1 road victo­
ry. 
On Saturday night, Notre 
Dame played the Red Hawks of 
Miami (OH). With their 2-0 win, 
the Irish managed to remain 
unbeaten at home, with a record 
of 6-0-1. The Irish clearly domi­
nated the play through the first 
two periods, but the game went 
scoreless into the second period 
despite Notre Dame's 29-11 shot 
advantage. Captain Urick's 
power play goal at 3:40 of the 
third period broke the scoreless 
tie, and junior Ben Simon's goal 
with just under four minutes to 
play iced the win. 
The four conference points 
earned last weekend vaulted 
Notre Dame back into fourth 
place in the CCHA. If the Irish 
finish in the top four by season's 
end, they will earn home ice for 
the best-of-three first round 
series in the CCHA playoffs. 
~ 
INFORMATION MEETING 
~ 
Sunday, January 17 
= Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 
~ .------2_:_oo_p_m_~_A_c_t1_·v_ity_R_o_o_m_2_.-----. 
Q Classes Meet 
Saturdays~ 12:30-2:00pm Tuesdays~ 7:45-9:00pm 

Rolfs Sports Recreation Center-Activity Room 2 
Register in advance at RecSports Class fee is $35.00 
Sign-Ups begin Monday, January 18, 8:00am Classes begin Saturday, January 23 Space is limited 


The Observer/Bret Hogan 

Notre Dame iced fourth place in the CCHA with its first win over a top-ranked team, North Dakota. 

GET MONEY FROM YOUR UNCLE INSTEAD. 
Your Uncle Sam. Every fees. They even pay a flat rate year Army ROTC awards for textbooks and supplies. scholarships to hundreds of You can also receive an allow-talented students. If you anceofupto$1500eachschool qualify, these merit-based LfADERS1i1p year the scholarship is in scholarships can help you ~ effect. Find out today if paytuition andeducational .._~~"" you qualify. 


ARMY ROTC 
THE SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE 
For details, visit Room 217 Pasquerilla Center or call 631-6265 
.. 
7  I I  
page 17 The Observer• SPORTS Wedndesday, January 13, 1998 ---------­---------~  I I I I  
¦ MEN'S BASKETBALL  - 
Macleod and Co. endure up and down month  
Ma.cLnod bm:ame head coach. llnfortunat.ely, Murphy had Antoni Wyche hit two clutch another classic upset?Fresh1nan Murphy The Irish whippedCcntral one of his worst games of the free throws in the final minute They started off focused and  
Michigan at home, beat year against Syracuse on Dec. and led the Irish in scoring ready. Tho UConn full-court earns Big East Providence on the road, and 29 and the Notre Dame win with 18 points. Sophomore press was being broken easily  
easily handled Eastern streak came to an end in a guard Martin lngelsby added and the Irish hung with therookie ofthe week Kentucky, Stetson, and St. hard-fought battle 75-63. The Hi points by shooting 5-5 from Huskies until just before half­ 
Francis (N. Y.) at the JACC Orangemen hrld Murphy to the field, including 4-4 from time. Trailing by 14 but notBy ALAN WASIELEWSKI during break. just five points, but fellow three point range. out of the game, the last 2.7 Sports Writer Freshman Troy Murphy freshman David Graves picked While Graves and Murphy seconds sunk the hopes of the  
established himself as one of up some ol' the scoring punch continue fo impress, seniors Irish. It shouldn't come as a sur­the best playnrs in the Big with 15 points. Antoni Wyche and Phil Hickey Notre Dame held the ball on prisP that the Notre Dame East during the win streak. The win streak was over but will determine just how good their own endline and basketbnll team has had nn up llis 30-point performance in tlrn Irish would continue their this team can br, in 1999. attempted a full-court pass.and down month. his first Big East road game at solid play for at least one When Wyche and Hickey give The ball sailed out of bounds Tiu~ John MacLPod era has Providence tied a conference more gamo. Pittsburgh came solid performances, the Irish and UConn was given tho ball been f'illf~d with such moments record by /\lion Iverson in to visit on .January 5th and do well. Hickey has shown under their own baskel. in tho last fow years. The Irish 1994. Murphy broke another Notre Dame dominated them flashes of being able to score Wyche was whistled for a now trnler the portion of the record by scoring 30 against 87-64. It was one or the inside and is crucial to the holding call on All-American srhedule that will determine Pittsburgh, becoming the firsf biggest Irish victories since defense by handling the big Richard Hamilton who was whetlwr thny can continue the freshman in Big East history they joined the conference and men in the conference sched­awarded two shots because solid play limy have shown at to score 30 points in two the immediate future looked ule. Wyche has put together the Irish had committed ten times or hcgin the familiar games during a freshman sea­bright with beatable Villanova some brilliant drives to the fouls. Notre Dame assistant chant of "wait till next year." son. The impressive resume next on the schedule. The hoop, but continues to take ill­coach Fran McCaffery was After the encouraging over­doesn't slop there. Murphy match-up seemed to favor advised shots at the wrong assessed a technical foul for time loss to Indiana on Dec. 1, has been named Big East Notre Dame, but the let-downs times in a game. arguing the call on Wycho.Notrc l>a mo put tognther the rookie of the week five times that have plagued the Irish Last night, the Irish sought Hamilton longnst winning streak since since the season began. teams of thclast few years to build on their success in stroked all four free throws  
struck yet again. Miami as they took on No. 1 and to throw salt in tho  
Villanova blew Notre Dame Connecticut. It was the second wound, Kahild El-/\min drillNI  
off the JACC floor with a 93­time this season that Notre a three pointer at the buzznr  
62 thrashing. Notre Dame was Dame has faced a top-ranked to put the II uskics up 21  
facing surging Miami (FL) and opponent. Duke beat Notre points.  
the number one ranked Dame 111-82 in the Great Notre Dame was out of it  
ContrncticuL lluskitls on the Alaska Shootout on Nov. 26. aftnr half-tinrn. UConn would  
road af't<,r the worst loss of the Notre Dame once had a proud eventually build tho lead up to  
season. track record against number 34 points while the Irish foll  
True to form, the Irish one squads. The Irish have apart. Hickey, Murphy, and  
bounced back after the· beaten the top-ranked team in Graves all drew early fourth  
Villanova loss to beat Miami the Associated Press poll on fouls and had to sit and watch  
71-68 and hand the nine occasions, two times most of the second half. Tim  
Hurricanes their first home more than any o·ther school. offensive power gone, Notrn  
loss of' the season. Senior Could Notre Dame pull off Dame co.uldn't stand up to tlrn  
Huskies running gamn.  
UConn eventually won  
101-70.  
It was obviously a bitHave something to say? much to expect tho Irish  
to play with UCon11. but  
tho Irish have f'lashedUse Observer classifieds. the ability to be 01111 ol'  
the second-tier teams in  
the Big East.  
They are now 9-8  
overall with a 3-3  
record in the confer­ 
ence and an upcomingSPRING BREAK '99 • PANAMA CITY BEACH, FLORIDA opportunity to perform  
their signature bounce­back in a grudge match at Villanova onltS all good! Saturday. · Sports  
~ Illustrated ~ol.u­. r,eac• Cia11L.' l1l1 Save theAnd this Spring Break, 1nli! Earth.fl,. ~. itS ~~~~e... ~ Reduce.Spinnaker & LaVela, the saPACKAGE: Boardwalk Beach Resort is 9• Spring Break Headquarters Reuse and  
for Panama City Beach, INCLUDES: Florida And as host to Si's recycleGulf frontBeach Club '99, you'll be accommodations immersed in the center ofall Free passes to Thethe non stop party action! Spinnal<er & LaVela  
So party with thousands, Host to Seorts Illustrated Beachbut sleep with the best! Observer. Club '99  
www.sunchase.com  
First 350 Students FREE 


...

U,HOCKEYllt 
~s. Alaska-Fairbanks 
Fri. Jan. 15 & Sat. Jan. 16 7:00pm 

Wednesday, January 13, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 18 
_______:____:___________________________ ------------------------------­
-¦ WOMEN'S BASKETBALL Irish enter rest of the season with new resolutions 
By ANTHONY BIANCO AssisLam Spom Editor 
Despite faltering in the Big East throughout December, the Irish came into 1999 with a new set of resolutions. 
Coach Muffet McGraw's squad turned a l-2 start in the Big East with losses to Connecticut and Boston College and needed a last-second shot by Danielle Green to down Villanova 63-62 for their univ win -into a three-game win streak to slide them up to fourth-place in the conference standings. 
·"The sign of a good team is how they respond to a !oss," 
said McGraw after the 93-61 win at Georgetown on Jan. 2. "J 
think we responded today." The Irish responded to the 78-65 upset at Boston Qn Dec. 30 with a bang against the lloyas, ush­ering a return to the dominant game they began the season with. Team captain Sheila 
, McMillcn started things right for the Irish. A 6-of-8 performance from 3-point range helped her pickup 22 points as the Irish led from start to a 93-61 finish. Green and McMillen combined a game later on Jan. 7 against West Virginia in one of the high­est scoring offenses Notre Dame has ever played. Green led with a career-high 28 with McMillcn 


The Observer/Liz Lang 
Sophomore Kelly Siemon and the rest of the squad will have a break before taking on conference opponent, Pittsburgh. 
right behind with 26 as the 111 
points the team scored was just two points short of setting a 
school record for points in a game. A bigger, faster, more domi­
nant Irish squad not only out­played Georgetown but also its last two opponents at home, with sophomore Ruth Riley leading the way and earning honors for it. The 6-foot-5 cen­ter's performance against West Virginia and Providence, gave lrnr this week's Big East player of the week honors. After start­ing the new year with just 13 points against Georgetown, the sophomore raised her game in the last two, averaging 29.5 points and 10 rebounds. 
Riley's biggest cut of the spot­light came last Sunday against a Providence team playing with­out their leading scorer, 6-foot-5 
Dani Trippany, who has missed 
most of this season with a stress fracture. Without their leading scorer, the Friars lacked the power to stop Hiley, who amassed a career-high 36 points en route to her seventh double,­double of the season along with the 13 boards she pulh!d in. 
"With the size advantage." said Riley after her career 
game. "My teammates were 
looking for me more and they gave it to me more the whole game." 
The stretch began on Dec. 12 with the Irish counting on another player to step up and literally put the game in the bas­ket. Green's shot with just 15.7 seconds on the clock allowed the Irish to slip past the Wildcats in a game that Villanova succeed­ed in slowing down the quick­paced Irish attack, Despite that, Green finished with 18 points and McMillen added another 12 to the Irish cause. 
Coming off of the Connecticut game played just days before in which both teams relied on a 


The Observer/Liz Lang 

Notre Dame head coach Muffet McGraw remains optimistic about her 
team's ability especially after the win against the Hoyas. 
fast-paced sprint up and down before ending 1998 without a the court to win, the Wildcats ring at Boston. After the Eagles caught Notre Dame off guard came out to a 9-2 start, they with its gameplan. "With never looked back, leading by as Connecticut, we expected a fast­much as 16 in the second half. paced game, and against With the week off until their Villanova, we knew they wanted next game, a conference to slow down the game a lot," matchup at Pittsburgh this said McMillen. "It's kind of hard Saturday, the Irish are looking to get our game going because themselves over to continue the we like the fast-paced game." new-year momentum. The Irish 
McGraw's team succeeded in will concentrate on improving handling its next two opponents their defense as they begin a on the road, South Florida (83-stretch of four road games in 
63) and Michigan State (75-64) their next five. 


.. 
...__ 


page 19 The Observer· TODAY Wednesday, January 13, 1999 
LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZA.RD OF ND DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON nus DAY: Robert Stack, Penelope' Ann Miller, Julia Louis-Dreyfus, Richard Moll, Brandon Tartikoff, Gianni Mor· biddli, R,,n Goulart 
Dan Sullian's comic strip will 
Happy Birthday: You'll have no trouble sticking to }'Our commitments this year. Added discipline will enable you lo follow the long road
resume on Thursday, Jan. 14 
leading to well-deserved success. Don't hesitate to ask for favors or to lei others do lhings for you if they offer. 
You will gain momentum if you ke€p following your beliefs and ideas. The harder you push, the greater your gains will be. Your numbers ],
BILL AMEND 
9, 19, 28, 37, 44 ARIES (March 21-April 19): This 

FOXTROT 
Ci 199!18111 An11nd/D1i! by un,~¥UI Prt&t Synou::ale 
will be a good time to get ahead Use
FoRiHE
I'VE CoME UP WITH A
WHAT 
yuur creative talent tu help you 
"JA'SoN'ZoNBAYHoo.''
NAME FoR MY 1NTERNET 
YES.' YES.' 
progress Travel will be successful if
FOR? 
CoMPANY, AND I WANT 
To BotJNCE IT oFF SoME· oNE To GAUGE WALL STREET'S Lll<ELY REACT10N. 

WALL'<, WE'RE \J£NTURt. ~  I  OON'T OWN  A  
CA~1T~LI~T5. WE WAN1 @ TO I.N\JE5T IN 'l'OUP.. j  WE.l:.i-l:>A5EO ~USINE55. I'I'\ 'JU51  
WEB-BA~ED BU~!NE.55. §  A.N ENG,INEER W'tT\-1  
A. COOL PON'(TA1l.  

DILBERT 
111--+c-+c--+=1--t-t--1=1~ 111iite'::+:-+-=-t=a1-:-1 12 Tropical flier -..:.:.;.+~::+:c+:-t 13 Embellished 14 It may be hard to trade 21 Skunk A P I E C E -V-t-E+-R+O.,,-+N-+E,,-t-cS::-1-:E::-1 23 Maintain M A P L E S P R O P E R T Y 24 Sally 

WHAT'S iliE 
NAME;, 

I~:::=================~ E r--:..-:.-=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--:..-, 
49 Luxury home features so Some 
supplements 53 Royal rival 54 "Volpone" 
penner 55 Relative of 
perlite 58 Picks 59 Glittery trim 60 Mother of mercy 61 Risk 
DOWN 

Wanted: Reporters
1 Francesco del 
Giocondo's wife 
2Not sympathetic 

and photographers.
3 Organize rigidly 4"--Eyes" (1969 hit) sOutside of 

Join The Observer 
France? 
aCalendar abbr. 1 Nafta ratifier &Mild 9 Ring combatant 
to Farm team 

t Film Festival tickets are on e Information Desk. Tickets are are allowed to purchase six tick­al shows at the Snite are January t 7:30 and 9:45 p.m. An extra eduled for January 25 at 7:30 
43Jim Palmer was 12 Archeologist's one handle 

staff. 
44 Bearing 53 Chichi--, Japan
45 Future year 
49 Seville or De Ville 56 Coal container 
51 Molders 57 Not up 
Answers to any three clues in th is puzzle . are available by touch-tone phone: 
1-900-420-5656 (7~ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the 
best of Sunday crosswords from the last 
50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
In ,inswer for your actions. 00000 
VIRGO (Aug, 23-Sepl. 22}: You can catch up if you do a little extra running around. Organize carefully to gel the most done. Find solutions to the problems thal may be troubling youngsters or elders in your family. 
00 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Don't do things lhat arcn'I aboveboard. Authority figutl's will bl' sure tn catch on. Make sure that all your docu­ments are in order. If you trav<'I, expt>cl to expt>rience delays, 0000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You will have a tendency to overspend today. Don't lend money or posses­sions to others. Don't take nn olher people's responsibilities or make pmm,ses you can't possibly keep. 
000 
SAGrnARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You will be upset about emolional or private affairs. Don't be too willing to confide in co-workers. 'tour reputa­tion may be at stake. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Get peace of mind by contacting the individual who has b<'en upsetting you. Your professional efficiency will suffN if you don't sort out your per­sonal life. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will be in an awkward position if you have allowed your boss to blame you for mistakes, Don't back down because the pressure is too gtl'at. You need to stick up for your rights. 
0000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Rela­tives and children will cost you dear­ly 1i you give into their demands. Don't trust others with your posses­sions. It will be best to pass on lavish forms of entl'rtainment. 00 
.,,, 
The Observer 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year  
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester  

Name ---------------------------­
Address --------------------------­
City ________State ____Zip______ 
HE'S REACHING 
FoR HIS 
WALLET.' 
I 
SCOTT ADAMS 
~ THAT'5 GOOD 
E.NOUGH FOR 
U5. 

Puzzle by Daniel R. Stark 
27 Punc. mark 28 On terra firma 29 Semblance 34Fade away 35 Mittimus or 
mandamus 38 Bruise 
discoloration 37 Step up 38Syllogist 40 One of a series 42Simple 
propulsion unit 
you mix business with pleasure. Pre­sent vour ideas with con(id~ncc.
00000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Reli­able individuals will recognize those younger and older today You will be tempted to spend on useless items m overpriced entertainment Don't lend or borrow. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Love is mounhng, infatuations are confus­ing you, and problems picking the right person are evident. Take three steps back and look at the attributes both potential mates offer. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Get involved in family projects. You will be appreciated for your efforts. Some­one may be jealous of your talents. Try to be supportive of others. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): It will be best to work out of your home today Catch up on those domestic chores you have been ignoring. Be prepared 
I • 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Jolly 11 Affected 15 Not very 
important u1Brogue 11 Wole Soyinka, 
for one 1a Dissatisfied customer's 
demand 111 Not right 20Mocking 22 Whitewash 
ingredient 23 Belt 21 Subject of one 
of Plutarch's "Lives• 21 Hard water 
21 Henry ll's house 30 --Felipe 31 Settled, in a way 32 Modern name 
of Tyre 33 Made lit 35 Trace 39--out(do 
nothing) 40Passion 
personified 41 Exercise 42 Edward 
Gibbon's subject 46 Gold Seal co. 
47 Classic documenta~ "Man of-­
48Tiny bit 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
MONOPOLY GILDED 
ORATORIO OLEARY 
SETTLING MOTILE 
TOO 1111111-c.+:::4=­RELY 
0 B 
H 

¦ UConn trounces ¦ Hockey downs Irish in runaway win. Fighting Sioux and climbs to fourth in the 
p. 17 CCHA. p.16
PORTS 
O 
THE 

Page 20 Wednesday, January 13, 1999
BSERVER 


¦ NBA 
SAY IT AIN'T SO.• • • 
His Airness expected to announce retirement today 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 
For six months, Michael Jordan teased, taunted 
and tantalized a nation awaiting his answer. At last. he apprars to have one. The greatest player in NBA history and the 
most popular athlete since Muhammad Ali is expected to announce his retirrmrnt Wednesday, a source with close ties to the NBA told The Associated Press on Monday night. The Bulls scheduled a news conference for noon EST Wednesday, 
If so, it would be the second time in five years that Jordan has walked away from the game. 
"J knew Michael wasn't coming back," Bulls free agent Dickey Simpkins said today at the team's training site in Deerfield. "He dropped hints last season and last summer that this would probably be his last go-around. 
"Ending on top was how he wants to do it and that's about the best way you can do it." 
Just as with Jordan's first retirenrnnt, a number of factors -his age, a picture-perfect ending to last season, a fractured beginning for this one ­appear to have influenced his decision. And just like last time, Jordan could change his mind and return at some point. · 
"We look forward to seeing him sometime in late March when he makes his return again in

.. 
Market Square Arena," Pacers coach Larry Bird said. 
Rut for now. he is expected to once again leave the game that bears his indelible mark, leave it when he's at Lhe Lop, the way he said he would. 
"This is a man who truly, as far as I'm con­cerned, is the modern day Babe Ruth," former NBA great and current Lakers vice president Jerry West said recently. 
Jordan did not return a message left on his phone, and Bulls owner Jerry Heinsdorf, reached at his Arizona home. said: "I don't have any reac­tion. I don't have any comments." 
Buzz Peterson, the Appalachian State basket­ball coach who was Jordan's teammate and col­lege roommate at North Carolina. said he believes .Jordan made up his mind a long time ago. 
"I called him this morning and asked him, 'What's going on? I've got 25 pink slip phone messages here in front ofme," Peterson said. "He just laughed and said everything's coming out now, and everything's being said. I can't confirm what he's going to say tomorrow but he feels like he's making the right decision for himself and his family." 
Asked about Jordan's retirement, Bulls spokesman Tim Hallam said, "At this particular time, 1can't comment." 
Jordan's retirement also was reported by The New York Times, USA Today and The Denver Post. 

His agent, David Falk, said that until Jordan "announces whether he is retiring or returning, AFP 
Michael Jordan is expected to announce his retirement today in a Bulls press conference at noon.
see JORDAN/ page 15 
¦ FOOTBALL 

Tech. takes away tenth win aspirations 
Seniors press for the 
green jerseys in last 
appearance for Irish 
By ALLISON KRILLA 
Associate Sports Editor 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. They were the talk of' Alltel Stadium on New Year's Day. 
With one of the most competitive bowl game match-ups moments away and the hometown Jaguars practicing just outside the stadium, Notre Dame's green jerseys were the predominant topic of' conversation. 
But as Bob Davie stressed, wearing the green jerseys was not some prnmeditated ploy to give the Irish a psychological edge over the Yellow .Jackets. 
A group of seniors, players who watched 
the Fighting Irish play for a national title 
from their living rooms in 1988, and saw the

• green jerseys in the 1995 Fiesta Bowl, requested the change. These seniors saw Jan.1 as one of' the biggest games of' their careers -an opportunity to win the elusive 10th game of the season. Before seeking to live dreams of NFL glory, or taking on corporate Anwrica, or continuing their education, tho class of' 1991) had one final hurrah Nthe Gator Bowl. It snerned like yc~sterday that thP curnmt seniors played in their first bowl game 011 Jan. 1, 1996. The Orange Bowl loss to Florida Stale ended their first collc!ge foot­ball season at 9-3. But the highly touted recruiting class held tlrn future of the Not.re Dame program in their able hands. 
Fast forward to Jacksonville. Fla., where 
see GAME/ page 13 


..,,. 
SPORTS 
ATA 
GLANCE 
' I 
at Villanova Saturday, I p.m. 
at Pittsburgh Saturday, 1 p.m. 
Men's Swimming at Michigan State Friday, 7 p.m. 
vs. Alaska-Fairbanks Friday, 7 p.m. 
Women's Swimming at Illinois Friday, 6 p.m. 





