---,-,-:•·-,.,-.-----------------------··-­
Listen up 
Carnegie or bust 
Tuesday
Check our reviews ofnew work from the Foo Saint Mary's women's choir will be traveling to 
Fighters, Incubus and David Bowie. 
Carnegie Hal/for a pe1formance later this month.
Scene . page 12-13 
NOVEMBER 16, 
News . page 3 
1999 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIII NO. 53 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
THE Music MAKER 

EDEN ESSEX/The Observer 
Conducted by Charles Ansbacher, the Sarajevo Philharmonic Orchestra performed pieces by Eric Breton, Asim Horozic and Anton Dvorak at Saint Mary's last night. The event was sponsored by the Nanovlc Institute for European Studies. 
---~---------=--=--====-===================-------------------------------­

Faculty discuss gradutate research funding 
By MAUREEN SMITHE 
Assisr.1nr New~ Ediror 
B11rausn Notrn Danw rnject­ncl a proposal to join tho Big 10 last February, tho Far.ully S,inatt• Forum on Academic I.if() established a series of panel discussions to address tlrn issuo of rnsearch funding al Notro Dame. The snries, which b1>gan five years ago to discuss matters uf public con­rnrn, "provides a flexible for­mat. f'or discussion," according Lo thnology prol"ossor and Farully Snnal11 r.hair J1ian Portf\r. 
Thu discussions 1wolved in nisponse to Notro D-arnc's small sum of nx.tcrnal rosearch funds. Two years ago. Notre Damo's outside grants totaled $30.2 million. In comparison. pn,ir institu­tions such us Princeton, Northw1)stern and Cornell drow in grants totaling $57 million lo $189 miilion. As a rn~ult, snvnral !'acuity mnm­hnrs l'ormnd various commit­tnos which outlined sevoral kny recommr.ncialions, apirnaling to the University's administration. 
"Th11 report was gnncrated by an exr.ellfmt committHt) ... h1rnvily intcrnsted in University attitudes towards rnscarch." said Frank Castellino. clean of the College of Science. 
Anthony llydnr, vicn presi­dent of Uw Graduate School. blames Notre Dame's faculty for low exttirnal 
Caslellino outlined three steps that should yield increased research funding. flrst, his committee suggested that "thP overall attitude rof the University] must evolve." he said. "We essentially oper­ate ai, a nine-month 
grants. Last undergradu­
"Centers and institutes 
year 62 per­ate driven 
are the way to
cent of university ­oxternal significantly increase we should grants were operate as a
research funding." 
generatnd 12-month by just 40 graduate faculty Frank Castellino driven uni­
members. dean, College of Science versity." 
"Six pnr­cent of foe­ulty wern responsible for almost two-thirds of the awards dollars the University received. The key to generat­ing more external funds lies in making more faculty responsible for generating part of the support for their scholarship," he said. 
The panel presented recom­rn end ations for program improvement and stressed the need for increased research funrls. 
"Wo have a goal in which programs will exist for the good of the University. We are more program driven than fund driven," Castellino said. 
To improve 
the overall rnsearch climate on campus, Castellino said that attractive fellowships are needed to attract graduate students. 
"We must provide to these students competitive salaries ... and increased funding," he said. In addition, his commit­tee suggested changes such as affordable family medical insurance and affordable day care for graduate students' children. 
Secondly, Castellino said that changes to University infrastructure would increase research funds. "We must make Notre Dame as attrac­tive as possible for recrui.t­

ment," he said. For example, commitment to capitalization of new faculty and better and more sufficient of'fice spaces are needed. 
"To increase research fund­ing we need to hire the best and the brightest -and not overload them," he said. "We must institute programs ... that arc necessary for research and scholarship." 
Hyder's committee made a similar recommendation. 
"The University should pro­vide the infrastructure funds, but the faculty should seek the funding," Hyder said. 
Finally. Castellino suggested the establishment of institutes and centers on campus that will heavily rely on research faculty. "Centers and insti­tutes are the way to signifi­cantly increase research funding," he sai.d. 
.Julia Doulhwaite. associate dean of the College of Arts and Letters, discussod the need for institute implemen­tation as well -a suggestion that she considers to be a new and ongoing initiative at Notre Dame that will foster grantship. Douthwaite noted that in Arts and Letters an institute has _already been 
see RESEARCH/page 4 
Students for Clean Plates to protest 
By JACKIE OSTROWSKI 
News Writer 
In an effort to create stu­dent awareness about thn amount of wasted food at Notre Damn and throughout the world, a group called Students for Clean Platns will be sponsoring a dining hall protest on Thursday. 
Students for Clean Plates will distribute flyers in the dining halls during the week to coincide with the National Student Campaign Against !lunger and llonrnlessness Weck. 
The group will host a mnal• time demonstration to show the student body how much food tlrny waste daily. Students will be asked to scrape their uneatnn food into a trash dumpster to remind them that overy itnrn they leave on their tray will be thrown away. 
"The dining halls are set up in a way that makes it very easy to waste food without thinking," said Henn Mulligan, who coordinated the wcek's events with Humin Skibba. She noted that studnnts could use their oxpnrinnce at tlrn Notrn Dame demonstration to relato to tho situation in tho rest of the world. 
Just as Notre Damu stu­dents leave edible. untouclwd food on their trays, many well-fed Americans, used to an abunda11cfl of evcrything, do the same. 
"H's important to start at home," said Mulligan. "It is very obvious that WB can do something to makc a differ­ence by not wasting food." 
This project is the first major undertaking for the Students for Clean Plates. The group began in September as a combination of two other student groups 
Students for Environmental Action and the World !lunger Coalition ­and has since become its own organization. To recruit memlrnrs, Mulligan and Skibba also contacted all presidents of campus clubs that might be interr:sted in such a cause. 
Though Students For Clean Plates is a rnlativ11ly young organi1.ation, Mulligau said its current campaign against food wasting s1mds a power­ful message rnminding stu­dents of the less fortunate world outside Notre Damn. 
"No food should go to wast11 when people arc hungry," she said. 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Tuesday, November 16, 1999 

• 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Bone thugs and basketball 

Thugs. That's the only word that can relate what the men's basketball team looks like in its new uniforms. Thugs. 
Maybe you haven't seen these hideous new threads that the team is sporting this year, so let me describe them to you. Basically, take a T-shirt, cut the sleeves off and you've got what the new uniforms look like. A lot of teams are wearing this style of uniform and all the teams that wear them are a bunch of thugs. The team that immediately springs to my mind when I see these uniforms is Cincinnati. 
Now. don't get me wrong, Cincinnati is a great basket­ball factory. Unfortunately, it's a horrible bas­ketball school. Since Bob Huggins became head coach 10 years ago, not a single scholarship player on the men's basketball team has grad­uated. None. 247 wins ... no diplomas 
And you thought the Tennessee football team was dumb. The Volunteers have nothing on the Bearcats (what is a Bearcat anyways?). Why do we want anything related to Cincinnati on our basketball team? (Although the No. 1 ranking in the AP poll that the Bearcats now hold would be nice.) 
So it all comes back to the uniforms. Why do we want to look like a bunch of thugs? Coach Matt Doherty has said that he believes that Notre Dame can achieve the same kind of suc­cess on the basketball court that Duke and Stanford enjoy. Neither Duke nor Stanford dress like a bunch of street punks. Doherty comes from great basketball traditions like Kansas and North Carolina where tradition reigns and basketball success follows. You won't see the Javhawks or the Tarheels wear­ing hideous thug uniforms. 
Back in the '70s, when Notre Dame basket­ball was a contender every year with top play­ers like Austin Carr, the Irish wore the stan­dard, traditional basketball uniforms. Aren't those the <slays that everyone wants the Irish to return to? This team has uniforms that resem­ble those glory days of Irish hoops. On the cover of the media guide the Irish players wear these uniforms. Knowing that Notre Dame has good-looking uniforms like these -or even the uniforms of last year that seemed fine to me ­why are the Irish wearing those thug uni­forms? 
Do the Irish really want to emulate the Bearcats? Do they want to play like a bunch of arrogant, underachievers that spend so much time strutting and congratulating themselves that they let a West Virginia player hit a three­pointer in their face to win the game like the Bearcats did in the NCM tournament two years ago? I hope not. 
Some might say that I am overreacting to something stupid that has nothing to do with the outcome of a basketball game. But the way you dress and the way you carry yourself says a lot about the kind of person you are. If the Irish want to look like a bunch of thugs, then eventually they will start acting like a bunch of thugs and then Notre Dame will end up with a basketball program like Cincinnati. ls a trip to March Madness really worth sacrificing. our integrity? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Maureen Smithe Emmett Malloy Laura Rompf Jenn Zatorski Courtney Boyle 
Graphics Sports Mandi Powell Kathleen O'Brien 
Production Viewpoint Brian Kessler -­Lila Haughey Lab Tech 
Jeff Hsu 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) i, published Monday through Friday except during exam :md va:carion period.s. The Observer is a: member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
QUOTES OF THE WEEK  
"This isn't a newspaper  "Think ofit as  "We must establish and  
thatjust goes to  "I've faced a lot of  Germany's Woodstock if  continue a structured  
[Malloy]. This is a newspaper for us. "  ignorance here. " Ayana Fakhir  you will, except with deep significance. "  substantive, respective and ongoing dialogue between university pres­ 
Chlsle Veliky Farley senator on the definition of  Muslim student on practicing her faith at Notre Dame  Burkard Prause Ph.D. candidate in physics  idents and bishops. " John D'Arcy  
editorial independence  on the fall of the Berlin Wall  Bishop  
on Ex Corde Ecclesiae  

Compiled from U-Wire reports
OUTSIDE THE DOME 

Harvard's early applicant pool increases 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. "They see the statistics that other non-exclusive early action Once they get to campus, Harvard schools.
Harvard has a freshman class
students may not often hand their But high school counselors said the
of1,600 and over 1,000 are
work in early, but a record number of change has affected the applicant Harvard applicants are trying to get a dmitted early action. They numbers of other early action ahead of the game. schools, such as Brown and
do the math."
Harvard received 6,042 early action Georgetown, more than Harvard's. applications by the November 1 dead­Instead, according to Stephen line, 31.8 percent more than last Stephen Singer Singer. director of college counseling year. The numbers reflect especially counseling director at Horace Mann School at the Horace Mann School in New large increases in the number of York City, many students are apply­
women applicants, up 34.6 percent -financial aid William Fitzsimmons. "I ing early because they say they though women still make up slightly think the word is getting out." believe it will give them a better less than half the pool. Applic;ants ritzsimmons noted that a recent chance at being admitted. from the Midwest increased by 43 survey estimated the student to guid­"I think the increase in applications percent from last year. ance counselor ratio in four of the to Harvard is a result of what the kids Although the final numbers are not nation's 10 largest cities at 740:1. are seeing in the mass media about yet tallied, Harvard admissions offi­Some additional students may have how much of the class is filled before cials say there is greater diversity applied early due to Harvard's the regular admissions take place," among the applicants. change to a non-exclusive early Singer said. "They see the statistics "Already we have significantly more action program. The new policy that Harvard has a freshman class of minority students in our pool this means that students may simultane­1,600 and over 1,000 are admitted year," said dean of admissions and ously apply early to Harvard and early action. They do the math." 
Cal students pull anti-Stanford pranks 
BERKELEY, Calif. 
With six days to go before the 102nd Big Game, a group of University of California-Berkeley students staged a plethora of anti-Stanford pranks over the weekend, The Daily Californian reported. A group of students calling themselves the "Californians" trav­elled to Palo Alto Friday night and changed five high­way signs reading Stanford University to "Stanfurd University," according to a member of the group who spoke on condition of anonymity. "We corrected the spelling," the source said. "We did a spell check." The weekend's activities culminated before dawn Sunday morning, when the group of approximately 15 stu­dents drove to South San Francisco and vandalized a sign which reads "South San Francisco -The Industrial City," the source said. The sign had been previously altered by Stanford fans, who had colored the "S" and the "U" red. The group returned the "S" and "U" to white letters and then painted the "C," "A" and "L" blue. The painting was interrupted by the arrival of the police, the source said. "We ran from the police," he said. "We got out of there really quickly." 

Florida students oppose Bush's plan 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. 
Although approval of Gov. Jeb Bush's anti• Affirmative Action One Florida plan seems likely by the Board of Regents this week, Student Government officials are encouraging students to oppose the policy. University of Florida student body vice president Jocelyn Moore said One Florida would create "ghetto schools" where minorities from under-performing schools would be sent because they could not meet admissions requirements to schools like University of Florida. "We have certain differences in our [K-12] school system, which, under this plan, aren't going to be remedied," Moore said. She said Friday she was still "reeling" from the reality of Bush's plan, which she said could cause an immediate decline in minority admissions. "It really scares me," Moore said. "I don't know where we're going to go from this." Moore encouraged students to call and e-mail the Board of Regents before its meetings Thursday and Friday. Still, she said while a response by students opposing One Florida would be ideal, she does not expect it to help prevent the Regents from accepting the plan. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 


The AccuWeather" forecast for noon, Tuesday, Nov. 16. 
~ 


O 1999 AccuWeather, Inc. coio WARM STATIONARY 
----­

Prn:.JJrt: 
® © 5z] ITil Em ~ E;l 0 ~; ~~
.
High Low Showers Rain T-storm:-Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt Cloudy Cloudy 
vmA~'6dPmf!!.S 
Atlanta 63 38 Las Vegas 77 52 Portland 56 44 Baltimore 46 27 Memphis 68 48 Sacramento 64 45 Boston 40 28 Milwaukee 43 31 St. Louis 62 39 S~~:,,;,; f.;t~~ Rain ~~;;i~~ _ -,c~ -Sunny Pt. ~loudy Clo~dy Chicago 48 28 New Yolk 42 30 Tampa 77 51 Via A6SDciated Pre~ GraprucsNBl Houston 78 52 Philadelphia 42 28 Wash DC 48 31 


Tuesday, November 16, 1999 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Junior's stock.pick scores high 
SMC choir to perform 
single... source 

Do you like to write? 
tT1arketin,g ser\•ices 


Would you like to write for us? Call 1-5323. 
By KATIE NAGENGAST 
New\ Writer 
Novnr undPrnstimatn Urn lurk of' the Irish. 
John Lavan, a junior finance major, enwrgod victorious from tht! Wall Str1mt Journal's latost stock picking contost aftor choosing his stock randomly l'rom tlw Nasdaq Stock Market tables. 
llis tnchniquo l'or choosing Llw successful stock was simply to rnn his lin­
gor down thn was up like
"~{ I was a professional

table until he 100 percent
investor. I would never

got lo the llltter and I had no "E." Lavan's enter one ofthese idea," con-luck then led 1' es s e d
[contests}, because you

him to Elbit Lavan.
can't win."

I.lei., an lsradi "Luckily it maker of elnc-just hovered lro nic and tlrnrn for Urn
John Lavan 

imaging sys­next few
junior

tnms Lhal rose 
morn than 110 
pnrcnnt during the contest, 
which ran from May to October 
29. 
"I didn't really resoarch !Elhitl." Lavan said. "I had 1rnv1ir hoard of it and I have novnr lrnarcl ol' it since in the news or anything." 
Originally Lavan was up against morn than 800 other Wall Strnet Journal rnaclrws who entered the contest via e­mail just as he had. However, in April, Lavan's entry was one of' !'our drawn at random to repre­sent tlw amatnur Header's Portfolio. The contest also chartnd the rnsults of four pro­fossional investors' choices as 
~NEWS AMERICA W MARKETING 
A N'f"e (:U.l'OUffllN (".oMN:-.'\· 
Great Career l;l. 
Special to The Observer
Opportunities '~\ 
A Notre Same Law School professor generally favors the 
legislation to overhaul bank­ing laws that was signed Nov. 12 by President Clinton, but he has concerns about several issues. 
"Financial services modern­ization is long overdue and it's to everyone's benefit that that president has signed the legislation." says Vincent 
in Sales and Marketing 
··A 

Rougeau, associate professor of law and associate dean.
~~ ·b···•·•··•··•···.·......••••\;J·····"'· q31-1,.,. 

"Nevertheless, 1 think there
~:~::,:_ ran us 

is a tendency to trivialize thn
'·;.<\{I.'• 

concerns that motivated
•;ii/-· Wednesday, November 17th Congress to separate banking, insurance and securities
6:30 p.m. -8:30 p.m. activities in the first place, namely the fear of unduly
Notre Dame Room at 

concentrated economic power. There is plenty of evi­
The Morris Inn Room 

dence to suggest that wealth is becoming increasingly con­
All Majors Welcome • 3.0 Minimum GPA centrated in this country, and Refreshments Will Be Served 
tlrn Professional Portfolio. and chosA four Nasdaq stocks ran­domly to represent the Dartboard Portfolio. 
"It was weird because I didn't fWen realize I had been picked as a finalist until about six wee ks aftflr the contest had started. My aunt sent mn a copy of the original article I was in," Lavan said. Healizing he had been named as a finalist prompted Lavan to check the progress of his random selec­tion. 
"[Elbitl 
months." 
Lavan's hovering stock lead the Header's Portfolio to a 24 per­cent averagn gain. trouncing Urn 1.5 percent gain chartnd by the Professional Portfolio. The Dartboard Portfolio's earnings also beat the Professional Portfolio with l .8 percent profit, again showing the random nature of tho stock market. according to analysts. 
"It' I was a professional investor, I would never enter one of these [contests], because you can't win. And you're sup­pos11d to, but I wouldn't be too happy to have a lucky college kid beat me," said Lavan. 
In fact, Lavan hopes to one 

concentrates wealth 
day join thn ranks of the profes­

at Carnegie Hall
sional investors, despite their 

Prof: new banking bill 
huge financial services con­glomerates may exacerbate this trend." 
Rougeau cautioned that there also arc important issues that remain concerning the Community Reinvestment Act (CHA). 
"Although a compromise on CRA has been reaclrnd that will allow the modernization legislation to move forward, I think we can expnct to see continued debate on the issue of how the financial services industry should deal with underserved communities," he said. 
"Smaller banks, in particu­lar, still have major problems with CRA," he continued. "My own view is that the CR/\ is quite important, but it must be revised to deal with tlrn new realities in the linancial services markr.tplace. I don't think the passage of the financial modernization hill ends debate on the CHA." 
The performance will include works from Hayden and Williams from different selections in the Magnificat text, a pirce commissioned for the college Sesquicentennial in 1994 by Libby Larsen, and Brahms' Ave Maria and Opus 12. 
The New England Symphonic Ensemble will provide musical accompani­ment. The voice ensemble will have eight hours or rehearsal time together before the performance, but only one hour with the orchestra. 
Although she will be miss­ing her last Notre Dame home football gamn as a stu­dent, senior Kathy Stninlaje is very excited about the per­formance. 
"It's an awesome opportu­nity. A lot or people have families coming, so that makes it even morn special," Strinlaje said. 
"This is unreal in some ways," said Mary Dini, a Notre Dame grad student who graduated from Saint Mary's two years ago with a music minor. "It's been exciting especially when you tell people about it. One of the pieces we're performing [Canticle of Mary] was com­missioned in 1994. 1 was in the choir when we first pre­miered the piece. lt's great that more people will be able to hear it." 
recent rand()m defeat. "I was just reading the Wall Street Journal before class one day !last spring] and I thought it would be fun [to enter this con­test I." Lavan said. "I never thought I would win, I just sent it in to see what would happen." 
"I did it because I'm interest­ed in investments. That's what I'm lhinking about doing for a career. I did an internship last summer, but it was with more of an accounting firm. This summer I'm looking for invest­ment banking, or an investment firm, so this should help," Lavan continued. 
Unfortunately for Lavan, his stock ea_rnin¥,s .w~r~,.ip.~rg,IY ... hypothetical because en'iermg the contest did not actually require purchasing stock he chose. In addition, Lavan did not receive any prizes fur his victory beyond bragging rights and some positive press. "It's still pretty exciting. People my relatives work with 
mention it to them. Plus, the Wall Street Journal called my professors, though most of them 
read it anyway. Some of them even cut out the article and handed it to me, and I talked to them about it," said Lavan. 
Despite his nrwf'ound fame, Lavan is reluctant to offer any words of wisdom. 
"There's not much I can say, I didn't really do anything," he explained. "Everyone is expect­ing me to have some investment philosophy, but I'm just lucky, 1 guess." 

. Group to sing with SMC alumnae and Penn High 
By NELLIE WILLIAMS 
News Writer 

Saint Mary's students and alumhae will perform this weekend at the same place Rachmaninov sang and Tchikovsky conducted. 
On Sunday, Nov. 21 at 2 p.m., the Saint Mary's Women's Choir along with Penn High School Women's 
''""Chorale, will perform a con­cert in Carnegie Hall. Saint Mary's and Penn High School are meeting up with 65 other singers in New York, making the total number of perform­ers 170. The students will leave Thursday and arrivn back next Monday. "I think we're ready," said Nancy Menk. chair of the music department and the leader of the Saint Mary's Women's choir. "lt's just a matter of getting together with all the other perform­ers." 
In addition to the students, 40 Saint Mary's alumnae will be coming from around the country to join the singers. 
"[The alumnae] add matu­rity of voices," said Menk. "They all sang consistently in their four years here. They have strong voices." 


'• page 4 The Observer . LOCAL NEWS Tuesday, November 16, 1999 
Douthwaite said that "the administration should create 

Convicted nurse gets life in-prison 
an environmen·t in which

Research 
continued from page 1 
established. 
"The Institute for Scholarship in Liberal Arts offers internal grants and· helps faculty locate external grants." she said. 
In the past eight years, the College of Arts and Letl.ers has seen a significant increase in external awards. In l 992, the college rnc:cived $1,191,336 in awards for the enlire year. However, in the first months of the 1999 academic year, the college has already generated· $1,700,288. Douthwai.te is "very pleased" with the trend. 
Douthwaite's c-ommittcc outlined the importance for both internal and external grants within the Institute. 
"Tbis year, ISLA has raised the ante. This insti­tute now requires all faculty that acquire internal sup­port to apply for external grants," she said. 
Her committee also sug­gested new programs that will unite different colleges, including course develop­ment awards for first year student classes and learning communities for upperclass­men students. Douthwaite said that two different courses from two different colleges can come together for the benefit of both the professors and the students. 
Continuing her support of interdisciplinary converging, faculty members meet oth­ers from different colleges." Already implemented. regu­lar faculty teas host infor­mal gatherings with speak­ers from different colleges. "(The tea] gets people tngel.her for interdiscipli­nary talk," she said. 
Gerald Iafrate, assi.stant dean of the College of Engineering, discussed simi­1ar tactics. "It would be great if we had a single building for research so our faculty could mix and dis­cuss research over lunch," Iafrate said. 
His committee suggested more c-ollcctive thinking as a means to increasing research funding, including social space for all faculty. Citing historic space con­straints anct seperations on campus, Iafrate said that "you have to face I.he reality that what.ever centers we form will be distributed ­thcv would be virtual cen­t.en; for the short term." 
The task force is aware that "funding is a very risky process," said Iafrate. "If it doesn't crystallize, you've still gotten the benefit of facultv working together, and you go form there." 
Hovvever, the impetus for change lies in the adminis­tration of the University. Castellini said that change will be expensive, but well worth the cost. 
"How can one teach at the frontier, if one is not famil­iar with it?" he said. 

Engine failure blamed for Purdue plane crash-
Associated Press 
L'\FAYETTE, Ind. 

A National Transportation Safety Board report blames an "inadvertent" engine stall and instructor error for a 1997 plane crash that killed two Purdue University students and their instructor. 
The undated report, released after a two-year investigation and obtained by the Journal and Courier, contained no surprises, said Michael Kroes, head of Purdue's aviation technology department. 
He said investigators told him in early 1998 that human error was the probable cause. The plane disintegrated and burned, and there was no flight recorder or survivors, so "there is proba­bly a lot we will never know," Kroes said. 
Based on the wreckage, main­tenance records and four eye­witness accounts of the crash, mechanical failure was "pretty much ruled out" from the start, said David Bowling, NTSB regioual safety investigator. 
Instructor Jemmy Sanborn, 24, was killed along with stu­dents Julie Swengel and Anthony Kinkade, both 21. Their plane crashed during an exer­cise in which one engine on a two-engine plane is idled by the instruclor, simulating an engine failurn. 
In the test, the student had to determine which engine had been shut dow11. then figure out what to do to restore power. An altitude of. at least 400 feet was required. 
The NTSB concluded that Sanborn idled the plane at too low of an altitude and the air-
Associated Press 
BRAZIL, Ind. 
Jior nearly a month, former 
nurse Orville Lynn Majors has 
awaited hi.s fate in a jail cell 
across from the street from the 
courthouse where a jury con­
victed him in the murders of six 
patients. 
Today, on his mother's birth­
day, Majors is expected to 
become the most prolific con­
victed killer in Indiana's prison 
system. 
Even Majors' attorneys expect 
Special Judge Ernest Yelton to 
give the former nurse the maxi­
mum possible sentence ---: :~60 
vears in prison. 
• Majors, 38, was convicted Oct. 17 afte&..a six-week trial of giv­ing lethal injections to six patients at a west-central Indiana hospital. He maintains his innocence and his lawyers are appealing. 
But Majors, with six murdM convictions to his name, will · soon hold a notorious place in 
the state's prison system. Two men serving time in Indiana for five murder convic­tions each are serving triple­digit sentences, said Pam Pattison, a spokeswoman for the Department of Correction. 

"He has the most," Pattison said of Majors. 
Prosecutors opted not to make a formal sentencing recommen­dation in Majors' case, dropping an earlier request for life in prison without parole. 
''I've always felt sentencing is the judge's decision,'' deputy prosecutor Nina Alexander said. 
Yelton must sentence Maj.ors under the law in place when the killings occurred in the mid­1990s at the Vermillion County Hospital. That means he could get between 30 and 60 years for Aach murder conviction. 
The judge also has to decide if Majors should serve I.he sen­tences concurrently or consecu­tively, which means one after another. The latter choice could net a maximum prison term of 360 vears. 
Indiana State Police investiga­tors suggest Majors gave lethal injections to dozens of patients at the hospital, pointing to two 
craft pitched to the right at 100­150 feet, nosed down and crashed. 
Sanborn also failed to reset part of the plane's tail section, 
· its "elevator trim", before take­off, which could have helped pull the plane's nose down, the NTSB report concluded. The victims' families received undisclosed settlements from Purdue's insurance carrier, agreeing not to sue even if Purdue was found negligent. In the aftermath of the September 1997 crash, Purdue changed several procedures to increase safety. Among the changes: only senior-level instructors are now used in mul­tiengine courses and the mini­mum altitude for the exercise is now 500 feet. Purdue also has purchased a $200,000 flight simulator that gives students experience with twin-engine conditions before they go aloft. 

University of Notre Dame International . Study Program 
in 

1.~-~.­
·, · 
..:-;, 
711­
,, . ;:-.,' , 

..::~j~ ~{:~-~..>·,.~ .-· ·-,_.-, _;' 
INNSBRUCK, AUSTRIA 2000 -2001 ACADEMIC YEAR APPLICATION DEADLINE: 12/1/99 
For information on the program or the application process 
Attend the Informational 
Meeting with Innsbruck 
Returnees and Campus 
Co-ordinator, Hannelore Weber 
Tuesday, November 16, 1999 
4:30 PM, in Room 206 DeBartolo 
OOWBOYMOUTH 
'~e ~~ .-ssttVe skow!'' 
ColMil\B ol.\t o.P "lew ov-le"'-lo\S wit~ l,.i+-s 1Je\.\111y '5c:'\yS11 "'"'~ ''How 'Do 'fov. Tell 'So""'eoi,..e?", Cowboy l-'101At~ co""'es to "lotv-e D"'""'e .Pov-Ol\e 1o1ie,~t Ol\ly: 
statistical studies that were never prnsented at trial. 
Police say a nursing supervi­sor's study showed Majors was present at 130 of 147 deaths in the ICU from March 1993 to March 1995, when the hospital fired him. A more scientific study, ordered by the police, found Majors was on duty for 63 of 67 deaths in the last six months of 1994. 
But Vermillion County prose­cutors pressed charges in the seven cases they were certain they could prove in court. 
And jurors ended up being convinced of just six murders. After four full days of delibera­tions, the jury could nol. decide whether Majors was guilty of murdering patient Cecil Ivan Smith. 
Immediately after the sentenc­ing hearing, Pattison said offi­cers will take Majors to Plainfield facility where DOC doctors evaluate new inmates' mental conditions before they are shippAd to state prisons. 
After that, Majors would serve his term in one of threfl maxi­mum security prisons. 
~'S~ 
t-tOVe~OeY 17 
"'t Step"'"' Ce\.\tev­

tic\::ets "'v"'il.,..ble ci.t \.O\Fov-t1Al\e llo\.Pa Des\:: OY C.:>\ll ,11-8' 128' $IO sti...Aelo\t/ $12. GA 



'. 
orld 
I ¦ 

Tuesday, November lG, 1999 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Salt threatens famed Indian temple 
KON/\HK, India 

/\ 700-yPar-old f.t>mpli• lhal survivNI last 111onth's supnrcyr.lorw in southnastnrn India is tlllW Lhrt•al('lll'd by corrosivn sails in floodwa­tPrs, orlkials said Monclav. Tlw famed llindu Sun TP111pl1• was not directly damagPd by the cyc:lonc. But tlw thick forests planted by India's kings to protPct it worn destroyed. !Paving it 11xposl'd to salt-lrnaring winds from tliP oc«-,u1. TlH• forests arc also l1ooded, and at onP point during tlw storm thn templo was u11d1•r 5 r«•l't of watnr. "Tlw f'or1ist cover around IIH• tPmplt• has bnPn totally dnstroyml ltv tit,• cvc-lorw," said LS. Hao, llw archanolog­i,:al olTfcial in drnrgP of Lim tnrnplc. "Salty winds will now hil tltP tmnpln dirnrtly. If it rnnt i1111\'s !'or a long pnriod. it will dP!initnly ('llllSP harm to llw porous ston1\," hn said in an intPrVi(!W. Iron bmuns supporting tho strur.• tun• ('.ould gnl rorrodPd, ho said. Engineering t''<pt>rts plan to ins1wcl tlw structurn soon. Workt>rs haVf' since dl'an>d the debris from 1.lw kmplP rnmplcx -a lJ.N. World llnritagc 
Bradley suggests defense spending cuts 
DES MOINES. Iowa 

Hill Bradlny col11\ctcd barking Monday from a lilwral peace group and suggested that it may lrn limn for ruts in defense spending. lfradh!y has said lw would hold the line on ddcnsc spending, which earned him an PtHlors«mwnl from Star.PAC, or Stop the Arms l!an• l'olitical Action Committee, an Iowa grn11p f'ormed in 1980 to push for rnduced dl'!'Pnsc s1w11ding. In a statement announcing Llw group's support !'or his Democratic presi­d1!nlial campaign, Bradlny suggested he would go f11rtlwr than simply holding the line. "It is also tinw to rnvinw. on a bipartisan basis, the !'actors that nemllessly raise the costs of our armPd f'orc:es. induding the Departmont of I>d,•nsP's rnsourc:P rnanagrnnent," he said. 
Yosemite bear attacks down 54 percent 
YOSFMITE N/\TIONAL P/\HK. Calif. 

lnf'idPnls h1itwee11 lwars and humans at Yos1•mil1\ National Park dropped 54 p1ircent last spring and sumnwr after a yearlong blitz that includPd Pverything from educational vidpos to !war -proof lockers. "It was a r,•sowHlir~g success," said Kendall Thompson, a l'ark S1\rvic11 rangnr. Thn strategy was sim­ph\ said Hob«>rt I!ansen, executive director of lhP Yos«'mitP Fund, a nonprofit organization that gavP $ I .!I million to help bankroll the park's !war-control program. "Instead of' try­ing lo cllangn tlrn bear behavior," hn said, "W11 rhangPd humans' behavior." 
likti•iftlMl&iMmfl
Dow AMEx: 
830.66 JONES 7·59
t­
~as,laq: 
3219.54 -1.61

I -, NYSE
• 
637.31 
+0.64 

S&P 500: Composite 1402.20 
Volume:

10,760.75 
18,798,980,242
-0.80 
VOLUME LEADERS 

£91,PMX 1':lCUI \ c...a, I CU¥91 PIICI 
CCNTUIUI. SOF't'WA.J. CIITR •114..81 .]. 97§0 "1. :ilS QLOU,.L CROll!NO OBU +11.U +4.3100 t.2, 81 •tCftOIOrT COI\I -2.'5 -a.u1s 87 .oo OCLL CONPUTIUI "'" -l. 25
O&LL -o. 9600 f.0.81 :rarrsr. COltP ZN'l'C -2. 7!1 -:il.1275 14.06 fl!'rAILrl IN<' SPL9 . 12.IJ •l. 9125 H.75 
>..KJtltITM.DS. HLD!N ...TD +JO. 52 ., . '5025 26.4.f. QULCOIDI INC QCON -2. fi5 ~ 10.0000 3'8.00 0UUl'l'YLH 'T'1lAtl!r .... 16 +1. 0000 2:l.00
ll"""

OIIN&Y WALT +l.:U-+0.8175 25.&a 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
TURKEY 


than the regional center. lapsed on us," said !lacer learned that her sister,
Associated Press 

Duzce, 10 miles to the Zengin, 33, who spent brother-in-law and two 
west. In some neighbor­much of the day Sunday young neplrnws had per­AYNASLI 
hoods, not a single home staring blankly at the ished downstairs. The wailing of distraught 
or shop remains standing. wooded hills past tho "God took everything,"survivors and the plaintive Roadside shops where edge of town. "I picked up she moaned. "We have chanting of verses from the vendors used to sell the my children, lay with nothing lnft. What will we 
Koran fil!Pd the chilly air as 

town's popular ceramic them on the floor, and do when wintnr comes?" residents of this devastated bowls were shaken to told them, 'We're dying Friday's quake was the town buried 60 of their bits, looking much as the now.' But we were next to worst in nnrthwostern 
dead on Sunday. 

bowls themselves would the sofa, and that saved Turkey since tlrn major one Hopes of fin.ding more look after falling from a us because the concrete on Aug. l 7 that killed more people alive under the rub­
shelf. Glass and rubble didn't fall on our heads." than 20,000 people in the ble of Friday's earthquake 
covered many streets. Zengin said that after region.faded, but the officially 
Light poles were strewn she crawled to safety, she Aid workers from nearlyannounced death toll of 374 
about like toothpicks. The heard cries from her a dozen countries pouredseemed sure to rise. 
walls of a large mosque mother, who was trapped into the afflicted area on Families sobbed and peo­
had collapsed, leaving the in another part of their Sunday. A Frnnch team ple sought to console one 
intact dome resting eerily house. With the help of searched for survivors another as they sat before on the ground. neighbors, she frantically hnre in Kaynasli. Israeli the ruins of homes where 
Near the mosque, peo­clawed through the rub­doctors and Anrnricans they said rnlalivns still lay ple sat numb with shock ble until her mother was with search dogs arrived in entombml. 
as they tried to confront free. Duzce, along with teams This town of 15,000 may 
the scope of the disaster. Her joy, however, was from Hussia, Algeria, Italy,have benn even harder hit "The two top floors col-short-lived. She soon Gnrmany and Greece. 
U.N. worries over U.S. debt deal 
secured. percent to 20 pnrcent; and that its 
Associated Press 

The administration and Congress share of peacekeeping opnrations be UNITED NATIONS reached the deal Sunday night after reduced from 31 percent to 25 pnrc,ml. 
U.N. ambassadors on Monday wel­Clinton yielded on conservatives' "That has-still got to go through the comed the tentative deal for the demands for limits on some U.S.­U.N. membership and there would be Unitnd States to pay the United subsidized abortion activities over­some resistanceto that package as it Nations nearly $1 billion in back seas. In exchange, $926 million stands," said British Ambassador dues, but complained it wasn't would be provided to pay the U.S. Jeremy Greenstock. "We'll have to talk enough and that the agn-,ement con­dues. about that whnn it becomes a real pos­tained troublesome conditions. The spokesman for Secretary­sibility." 
Canadian Ambassador Hobert General Kofi Annan said he But Hep. Ben Gilman, H-New York, Fowler said his government had wouldn't comment until the legisla­visiting thP UnitPd Nations with a con­"severe problems" with the deal tion is signed. but did express con­gressional delegation, indicated the because it didn't pay all the U.S. cern about conditions for payment demand for a reduced bill and othnr arrears, which the United Nations and when the money would actual­calls for U.N. reform wouldn't hold up says have reached $1.6 billion . ly be received. payment ofthr. $926 million. 
Nevertheless, "if this means at the "I'm not sure even that we can "I think the deal will be to move for­very least that in the immediate term say for sure that the Article 19 ward on the payment and then still that the U.S. dmis not lose its vote in threat -the loss of vote threat -remind tho U.N. thorn are some condi­the General Assembly, it's good is no longer with us," spokesman tions that we'd like to sne up the road," news," Fowler said. Fred Eckhard said. "It very much said Gilman, chairman of the llouse 
The United States, the biggest depends on the schedule for paying International Relations Committne. debtor to the United Nations, but alsq out this money and how much they U.S. Ambassador Hichard I lolbrookn the country billed the most, must pay try to get us." acknowledged that the deal came with $350 million by Doc. 31 to koep its The legislation calls for the U.S. "strings attached," but said it was the seat in the U.N. General Assembly. Its share of the regular U.N. budget to only way to get the United Nations the vote in the Security Council is be reduced from the present 25 money it was owed. 
'I 

page 6 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, November 16, 1999 
Friends testify for 

Gore grilled on Microsoft ruling 

man in dragging case 
Associated l'ress 
JASPER, Texas 

Rlack friends testified Monday on behalf of a white man accused of dragging a black man to de>ath bchiml a pickup truck, saying they believe he's not a racist. 
Joseph Glnnn, Larry Don Buford and Ann-Marie Norman all testified they have no reason to believe former movie theater manag­er Shawn Allen Berry is a bigot. 
"Shawn had black friends," Buford said. "Sometimes if a [black customer] at the the­ater didn't have enough for a ticket, he'd give them money out of his pocket or give them a ticket." 
Glenn, who once worked with Berry at a tire store, said he had never heard Berrv make racist statements and that Berry was close to a black man who now is deceased. Berry cried at the man's funeral. Glenn said. 
The three were among more than a dozen witnesses who told jurors they had never known Berry to be a racist. Some also testified that Berrv disliked ron­frontations ·and backed down from fights. 
Berry is· Pxpectcd to testify Tuesday, his attorney said. 
Berry's brother, Louis Berry, said they were not raised to hate blacks or any­one else. 
"I know people would AXpPct me to say that because he's my brother, but it's the truth," he said. 
Prosecutors in the capital murder case have not tried to prove that Berry, 24, har­bored racial prejudices. They charge that he participated in the June 7, 1998, dragging death of James Byrd, making him as culpable as his two former roommates. 
John William King, 25, and Lawrence Russell Brewer, 
32. already have been con­victed and sentenced to death. King and Brewer were portrayed at their trials as avowed white supremacists covered in racist tattoos. 
Berry could join them on death row if jurors decide he was more than the fright­ened bystander he claims to have been. 

Leader urges Clinton to focus on campaign 
Associated Press 
ALBANY, N.Y. 

The head of New York's Democratic Party suggested Monday that Hillary Hodham 
Clinton "give up her day job" and concen­
t  r  a  t  e  
more  on  
h  e  r  

Senate 


c a m -Clinton paign. Judith Hope, the state Dem-ocratic chairwoman, was reacting to the political fallout from Clinton's trip to the Middle East, in which the first lady only belatedly responded to charges against Israel by the wife of Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat. Hope said Monday that "there is an increasing awareness that there is an incompatibility" between being first lady and running a Senate campaign. "Of course, you can't just quit that job" as first lady, "but somehow, some kind of mechanism needs to be found to enable her to be a candidate," Hope said. "Maybe she needs to put a cot in that house in Chappaqua and move in there," the party leader said, adding with a laugh, "She may have to give her all for New York. We're a demanding group." Last week, Clinton sat silently as Soha Arafat accused Israeli forces of using "poison gas ... which has led to an increase of cancer cases among 
Palestinian women and chil­dren." The first lady subsequent­ly embraced Arafat. 
A full day later, and after New York Mayor Rudolph Giuliani criticized Clinton for allowing the remarks to go unchallenged, the first lady said comments such as those made by Arafat could hurt the peace process. 
In New York City, where the Jewish vote is a linchpin in a tight race, Clinton's tightrope in the Middle East could work in favor of Giuliani, her likely opponent in the New York Senate race. 
Twelve percent of New York's voters are Jewish. 
;\ Quinnipiac poll Aarlier this month indicated the mayor and the first lady are in a statistical dead heat when it comes to the .Jewish voters. with 46 percent of them backing her and 43 percent Giuliani. 
Referring to the chal­lenges that Clinton faces in trying to be both candidate and first lady, Hope said, "Maybe she has to give up her day job."' 
Howard Wolfson, a spokesman for Clinton's campaign, responded: "She is making the transition from full-time first lady to Senate candidate and I expect that next,year, she will devote the vast major­ity of her time, resources and energy to running for Senate." 
Clinton isn't expected to formally declare her candi­dacy until January or early February. Giuliani has also not yet formally declared his candidacv, but has also been raisin·g money and campaigning for months. 
Associated Press 
REDMOND, Wash. 
Vice PrnsidP.nt Al Gore faced tough questioning Monday from Microsofl Corp. managers, many of 
w h o m recalled the Justire Depart­ment's cel­ebration after a federal judge 

declared Gorn the com­puter soft­ware company a monopoly. 
Gore himself raised the antitrust issue, although he did not comment on the Justice Depa'.rt'ment lawsuit against Microsoft or the Nov. 5 decision by U.S. District Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson that Microsoft , had unfairly stifled competition. 
Although the audience of about 300 mid-and upper-level managers mostly cheered Gore's early comments in sup­port of gun control laws, abor­tion rights and a national hate crimes law, the atmosphere turned chilly when the topic turned to antitrust 
l\Iicrosoft Chairman Bill Gates. who had spoken the night before at the Comdex computer and software con­vention in Las Vegas, was not present. 
"I was pretty upset and angry when J read about what thev said about this company," one manager told the vice president, cover it. who is campaigning against for­Gore told the employees that mer Sen. Bill Bradley to "I respect your feelings." But he become the Democratic Party's also said antitrust laws must be candidatf' for president next enforced when competition is year. unfairly stifled. 

Gore said it is not "a wild, "The marketplace ought to crazy notion that the antitrust accommodate a chance to com­laws would apply to the soft­pete," he said. "When domi­ware industry." He stressed, nance in one area is used to however, that he was not prevent competition in another spPcifically referring to area, that's wrong." Microsoft and its market Gore later told reporters that power. the Justice Department's deci­
Microsoft dominates the mar­sion to go after Microsoft was ket for personal computer oper­made without any consultation ating systems with its vVindows with the White llouse. The software. department operates indepen­
Within hours after the judge's dently in such cases, he said, decision, Attorney General adding, "That has been a tradi­Janet Reno and Justice tion of Democratic and Department antitrust attorney Republican administrations and Joel Klein hailed the ruling as a is written into law." 
victory  for  Gore  was  
consumers.  introduced  
"I am deeply  "The marketplace ought  by  Jeff  
conflicted to see an admin­istration hav­ing a favor­ tu accommodate a chance to complete."  Raikes, Microsrift's group vice president for  
able reaction" to the judge's ruling, one of  Al Gore Vice President  worldwide sales and .support, and  
Gore's ques­ a  member of'  
tioners said.  Gore's  

''The problem is I want to vote national finance committee. for you, but I feel deeply con­While on the Microsoft cam­flicted." pus, Gore also toured the com­
Gore asked how many other pany's online political maga­employees had similar ques­zine, Slate, where his daughter tions, and a majority of the Karcnna once worked. hands shot up. He also visited a senior citi­
"Boy. am I glad l opened this zens' center and was to head­to the press," Gore said, refer­line a fund-raiser Monday night ring to his threat to cancel the at the Newcastle Golf Club. appearance after Microsoft ini­founded by former Microsoft tially refused to let reporters executive Scott Oki. 



Domino's Pizza Delivery to NDISMCIHC 271-0300 
EARLY WEEK SPECIA.L! 
Every Monday, Tuesday, & Wednesday 
The weekend isn't too far away... 
r-------------------,
I 2 Large Pizzas w/ Cheese I I $899 I 
I I 
I $1 Per Topping I 
I Add Breadsticks for $1 I I Good every Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday I I Visa/Mastercard/Discover and Checks Welcome! I
L ___________________ J 
I•• 
Tuesday, November 16, 1999 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Birmingham. teachers strike Church leaders defend, 
support college mandates 
Sykes conceded the work stop­students and about 4,300 

Assoriatc<l Press 
BIHMINCilIAM. Ala. 

llundrnds of teach!lrs, bus drivers and lunchroom work­nrs went on strikc Monday, prnt,isting a $30,000 raise for the city school supnrintnndcnt at a timn or meager pay inrrnas11s for other school sys­tem mn ployees. 
Some or the system's 75 schools w11re virtually empty as teachers pickntcd the school bonrd officfL Administrators and substitutn teachers lilied wlwrn thny could, but many parnnts knpt their children homn from school. 
"Wn have spoknn, and 110 one 
has listened," Alabama 
Education Association leader 
Paul llubbert told a meeling of 
about 500 educators. "Today is 
the first limn we have been lis­
tt11wd to." 
Trmdrnrs in Birmingham lack collrwtive bargaining rights and do not have a contract. lluhbert said there is nothing in statn law that says if teach­ers can strike. But a 1958 advi­sory opinion from the state attornuy general said teachers cannot logally strike and that school boards may file suit to forc<1 striknrs back to work. 
Birmingham Education 
i\ssociation Prnsidenl Gwen 
page was probably illegal. employees, and Hubbert esti­
"We don't have a logal right mated as many as 70 percent to strike, and we could face of school employees were strik­some problems because of it," ing. said Ms. Sykes, assistant prin­City schools spokeswoman 
cipal  at  a  Michael le  
m i d d I e school. "But  "We have spoken and no  Chapman said the  
we am will­ing to go through that."  one listened. Today is the first time we have been listened to."  actual num­ber was lower, but she offered  
The strike  no  firm  
followed a "sick-out"  Paul Hubbert  count. Student  
Friday by about 600 of  Alabama Education Association leader  attendance could not be  

the system's 2,100 teach­ers after the school board gave Superintendent Johnny Brown a 20 percent raise in salary and expenses from $151,000 to $181,000 annually. Some of Brown's top aides also recently received raises of as much as $20,000. 
In contrast, teachers and other employees received rais­es of only 1 percent to 1.5 per­cent. 
Brown, who has been super­intendent since January 1998, said he would donate about $17,000 of his salary to student scholarships and asked school employees to return to work. 
The system has some 39,000 
counted 
until larnr in 
the day, she said. 
Slywanda Jackson took her 5-year-old daughter Khadijh home after learning few work­ers at her elementary school cafeteria had showed up. 
"Her teacher's in there, but they said they're not having any lunch," she said. "There aren't hardly any kids in there." 
Alabama's last major teacher strike was in 1979, when Walker County educators were off the job a month to protest the firing of 42 teachers in a cost-cutting move. A judge ordered the strikers back to work. 


Brad Metz, C.S.C. • Irish Guard 1992-95 
Ordination Date: April 6, 2002 
Can you make this team? 

.\.'~SWER * 
THECAU W Fr. Jim King, C.S.C. Fr. Bill Wack. C.S.f.. 

www.nd.edu/-vocation 


Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
The Roman Catholic bishop who heads a committee on rules to tighten control uf church-related colleges defended 
the pro­posals Monday amid sig­nals that 
o t h e r bishops want to avoid a 

decision.  John Paul II  
_The col­ 
lege  rules,  written  in  

response to directives from Pope John Paul II and the Vatican, are scheduled for a vote Wednesday at a meeting of the U.S. bishops. 
The most contentious rule would require any theologian wanting to teach at a Catholic campus first to receive a "mandate" from the local bishop. 
Leaders of many of the 235 
U.S. Catholic colleges and universities, which enroll 670,000 students, have long lobbied against such rules to prevent what they see as unwarranted threats to aca­demi.c freedom and institu­tional autonomy. 
During a question period, Bishop Raymond Lucker of New Ulm, Minn., signaled that some bishops will bring a motion Wednesday to delay action to allow further dis­cussion with educators. The bishops also could amend the text. 
'Phe hierarchy is expected to examine the situation dur­ing a closed-door session Tuesday afternoon. 
The papal nuncio to the United States, Archbishop Gabriel Montalvo, may have had the college dispute in mind during his Monday talk 
The O'Brien-Smith 
to the hierarchy. Every activ­ity in a local diocese "must refer to the bishop of that diocese," he stated. "One cannot imagine a situation in which the magisterium [teaching autl1orityl of the bishop is considered an illicit or inappropriate interfer­ence." 
The chairman of the com­mittee that drafted the col­lege rules, Bishop .John Leibrecht of' Springfield, Mo., told the bishops the current text has "more flexibility" than a version proposed a year ago. 
He noted that the rule requiring a majority of' teachers and trustees to be committed Catholics has the added phrase "to the extent possible." "We all know our institutions have many very loyal people on the faculties and boards who arc people of other faiths, but they sup­port the mission of the Catholic institutions," Leibrecht said. 
He said similar hedging language has been inserted to meet educators' "justifi­able concerns" about possi­ble conflict with federal and state laws. 
The proposal requires approval by two-thirds of' active bishops; retirees do not vote. If endorsed, it would go for final approval to the Vatican, which rejuct­ed a looser policy that the American bishops over­whelmingly approved in 1996. 
The rewrite from Leibrecht's panel gives no ground on the mandate for theology teachers, but the current version specifies that a theologian who is granted a mandate can take it with him if he moves to a school in a different diocese. Leibrecht said the bishop of the new diocese would retain the right to review or cancel the mandate. 
Visiting Scholars Program Presents: 

Hedge Funds: Omniscient or Just Plain Wrong 
3:30 p.m., Wednesday, November 17 Jordan Auditorium 
College of Business University of Notre Dame 
FREE AND OPEN TO THE PUBLIC 
Stephen J. 8'otlll 
David S. Loeb Professo, i/llww» 
Leonard N. Stern SchQCl:,of llullnell"' New York University 
631.3277 or www.nd.edu/~cba

Come to Me all you who labor and are heavily burdened, And I will give you rest ... 


I make a holy hour each day fii, =~ in the presence ofJesus in :.~l the Blessed Sacrament. All 
I 
';j 
my sisters ofthe 11 
j:J:,
Missionaries ofCharity make a daily holy hour as well, because we find that through our daily holy hour our love for Jesus becomes more intimate, our love for each other more under­standing, and our love for the poor more compassion­
,,
t
a e... 

Sponsored by Notre Dame Right to Life 

Jesus is here with us in the Eucharist to give us answers-answers that will lead us to truth, happiness and peace. In this culture of death, it is easy for people to become weary and indifferent to God and His gift of life. People often fall short of their obligation to care for and nurture the spiritual and physical lives of themselves and others. Eucharistic Adoration gives a person the opportunity to nurture his own spiritual life, as well as the spiritual lives of others (through prayer for them.) Prayer also protects the physical lives of those endangered by abortion, euthanasia and other forms of violence. This is because, it is only through the grace which comes from prayer that other's hearts can be changed from seeking death to loving life. Christ gives us the strength to press on in our battle for life. In order to be Christ-like in our service to preserve life, we must be filled with His life through prayer. To be Christian, we must follow Christ. If He is not the source of all we do, it is worth nothing. We ask you to join us in prayer for life ... 
What is Eucharistic Adoration? 
God is present to us in many ways in our world, but He is especially present to us in the Eucharist. As Roman Catholics, we believe that Jesus Christ, who lived 2000 years ago, is truly present in the Eucharist. In Eucharistic Adoration, the Host is placed in a monstrance, in order for us to be able to come and pray. Jesus is always hidden in the tabernacle, but in adoration he is exposed so that we can come and kneel before Him, face to face, and speak with our God. When Jesus is exposed like this, He can never be left alone. Thus, people sign up to be responsi­ble to some and pray with Him for a certain amount of time (usually I hour) every week. 
Why should I go? 

If Jesus were to come to the JACC, would you come and stand in line for ours just to talk to Him for a minute? Even if you weren't Christian, wouldn't you be at least interested in this God so may people talk about? Well, Jesus is truly, physi­cally present here on campus-in the Eucharist. IN ADORATION YOU HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY TO GO AND SPEAK WITH YOUR GOD FACE TO FACE. You confide in Him, plead with Him, question Him. And if you sit quietly enough, he will inspire you with answers. 
What do I do when I am there? 
When you enter the chapel, you should genuflect as a sign of reverence to Jesus. It is common practice during Adoration to genuflect on two knees, instead of just one (like you do whenever you enter a chapel.) You can stand, sit, or kneel-whatever position you pray best in. And then you pray. There are many ways to pray: you can do spiritual reading; you can pray a rosary; you can sit in silence; you can even just talk to Jesus-like you would to a friend. The most important thing is that you love Him and allow Him to love and strengthen you. 
What does the Church think? 
"Exposition of the Blessed Sacrament, whether in a pyx or a monstrance, is a recognition of the wondrous Presence of Christ in the sacrament and stimulates us to unite ourselves to Him in a spiritual communion. It is, accordingly, eminently in harmony with the worship which we owe Him in spirit and truth ... " 
-Post-Conciliar (Vatican II) Document, S.C.O. W. 
AMDG .JMJ 

EUCHARISTIC ADORATION ON CAMPUS: 
Friday: Lady Chapel in the Basilica: 12:00pm (following 11 :30 Mass) -5:00pm with a Rosary beginning at 4: 15. (Ends with Benediction at 4:45) Monday beginning at 11 :30pm (following 11 :OOpm Mass) through Tuesday at IO:OOpm (Ending with Benediction at 9:45-I 0:00) In Fisher Hall Chapel. 
. I•
---------------------~---------------------------------,--~-·•----.··-:_ ·-----------"""'Will­
Tuesday, November I6, 1999 The Ob,erver . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
CHINA 
China could enter WTO with new trade agreement 
foundly important step" in other.key trading partnnrs, thn relations between Washington European Union f'ornmost and Beijing and a boon for the among them. Terms of the U.S. global economy. China's admis­deal will not apply until China sion to the WTO has IHHm a gets WTO nrnmbnrship. major foreign policy and eco­However. a WTO ol'l'ir.ial in nomic goal of the Clinton Geneva said China is unliknly administration. to join bnf'ore its 13:i current 
"In opening the. economy of members meet in Soattl<i on 
China,  the  Nov.  :rn  lo  
agreement will create  "11iis is a major step  try to launch now trad,i  
unprccedm1t­od opportuni­ties for  .toward China's long­standing efforts to  lilrnralization mcasurns. U N  
American  resume its rightjitl role in  Sccrntary­ 
farmers. workflrs and companies to  the multilateral trading system .... "  Grnrnral Kof'i Annan. who is visiting  
compete suc­ Bnijing. said  
cessfu Ily  in  Kofi Annan  in  a  stat!\•  
China's mar­ket. while  U.N. secretary-general  mnnt reloased in  
bringing  Now  York  
incr,iased  today that lw  

prosperity to the fHH1ple of hopes the agrcnnrnnl will pavn China," the president said. the way for China's quick nnlry 
"This is a profound and his­into the WTO. toric moment in U.S.-China "This is a major ship toward relations," Barshefsky said. thr culmination of' China's 
China's Shi called it a "win­long-standing efforts lo rnsunrn win" deal that was "mul.ually its rightful role in tlw rnullilal­satisfactory !'or both coun• eral trading system, and Lo t.hP tries." achievenrnnt of universality of 
"We arc looking forward to the system itself," llw statn­the day of becoming a full nrnnt said. member of the WTO, within the The U.S. Embassy said China year," Shi said. will eliminate export subsidiPs, 
The deal sent stock prices in double the number of' f'ornign Hong Kong soaring lo their films it allows in each year to highest level in more than two 20 and allow Anwrican firms to years. It also brought congrat­finance car purchases. With ulations from neighbors like the deal, China will also put Japan and South Korea as well into effect an April agrPnn11mt as the Geneva-based WTO. that will slash tariffs on agri­
"I have said many times that cultural goods and provide we arc not a world trade orga­largnr import quotas for whnat, nizati on until China has corn. ricn and cotton. joined." said WTO Dimetor­It was unclear wlrntlrnr tlrn General Mike Moore. agrnenrnnl wenl beyond ron­
To get into the WTO, China cossions Preminr Zhu Hongji still needs lo negotiate sepa­made in April and that Clinton rate access agreements with . rejected. 
Associo1e<l Pres~ 
BEIJING 

i\l'tor B y1•1trs ol' litf'ul talks and six days of grueling bar­gui n ing, Chinnsc and U.S. nPgol.iators signnd a brnak­through agnwnwnt today that would n•movP Irad<\ harriers and r!,•an; the biggest hurdlo to China's l'ntry into llw World Trad,• Organization. 
Tlw agreonwnt obligalns China to rnt tariffs an avnragr nf' 23 pnr,·Pnt and promises greater access to the relatively closed Chinese market for U.S. banks, insurers. telPcommuni­cations firms and llollvwood film exporters. according to a statement released by tlrn U.S. Embassy. 

None of the terms will take effoct until China gains entry to thr WTO and most would be phasnd in over five years or lnngr.r. 
U.S. Trado Heprnsrntative Charlen n Barslwf'sky ancl China's l'nrnign lrade minister, Shi (juangshcng, signed tho 
-Demus Properties has six, seven, and eight bedroom houses available 
-Student neighborhoods close to 
campus -Security systems provided -Well maintained homes -Maintenance staff on call 
agreement. They then shook hands and were joined in a champagne toast by President Clinton's special economics adviser, Gene Sperling, and Long Yongiu. China's lead WTO negotiator. 
Barshefsky thon went to the Communist Party lnadersbip compound and met Chinese President Jiang Zcmin. 
"Where there's a will. there's a way," Jiang told Barslrnl'sky after the signing. 
In Ankara. Turkey, Clinton said the agreement was "a pro-

HOMES FOR RENT 
Available for the 2000/2001 school year BETTER HURRY!!! ONLY 4 HOUSES LEFT . 
Contact Kramer (219)274-1501 or (219)234-2436 or (219)674-2572 
!lNhen traveling home for ThanksgMng break, Inormally:
I 

ride with a friend of a friend and listen to 8 hrs. of Glam Metal. 
-----. ___----------­
call a cab and tick my parents off. 


i --~::,: 

·-------------------. 


.. 

------. -­
w W W . C O I 1 __!9 g etr a Ve In e t W O r k : C:O l!r-_:,;~~:~-:~:cc==-_;~~~~~;;,,,,::~::=:~:::~~~::::::-·::::~:: ' 



New  [\I::.) Forv..-ard  t) Dt>lete  
Hey:  
Goto www .collegetn.we1network .com. SNL in N'lC, 8 AB'l ! Register your name on th€'ir site and we coIJld win and live it up in N ­Y ­C : RT phnl? tickr;>ts, ph.:1t hotel room, txts to SNL LIVE! LIVE I LIVE! Yeer;>hhha.a\y'WWW ...  
L.:1ter (oh ye.ah, fr;>E?d motorhe.;id)  ~ current proje(  

No purchase necessary, void where prohibited. Contest begins 10/15/99 and ends 11/30/99. Contest open lo U.S. residents age 18 and over. Further restrictions, entry form and complete rules available al www.collegetravelnetwork.com. 
•I. 

VIEWPOINT 
page 10 OBSERVER Tuesday, November 16, 1999 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Bos Q. Norrc Dame. IN 46556 024 Somh Dining Hall, Noc" Dame. !N 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Michelle Krupa 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
M. Shannon Ryan  David Rogero  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  
Laura Petelle .  

NEWS EDITOR: Tim Logan 

VIEWPOINT EmToR: Cnlleen Gaughen 
SPORTS EDITOR: Brian Ke:.sler 
SCENE EDITOR: Michael Vanegas SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Noreen Gillespi~ 
PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Dalum 

ADVERTISING MANAGER; Bryan Lurz 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Bret Huelar 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kushro 
CoNTROLLER: Timothy Lane 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 
CONTACT Us 
01'1'1CE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FA:x............................................................. 631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEl........................................631-4542 MANAGING EmToRIAssT. ME...................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWs..........................................................631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edt1 SroRTS........................................................631-4543 observer.spons. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO.......................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visir our Web site at http:llobserver.ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news. sports, tearures and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associared Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 

minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 

advertise for policies 
online features for spe­

and rates of print ads 
cial campus coverage 

archives to search for 
about The Observer 

articles published after 
to meet the editors and 

August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
. The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofrhe adminisrrarion ofeither­insritution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse adverrisemerus based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Ediror. Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, lerrers and columns presenr the viev-·s of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be direct­ed to Editor in Chiif,\!ichel!e Krupa. 

As of late, the Church has been tweak­ing every word of every song, reading, and prayer to stream through the Mass in an effort to pro­mote sensitivity and Mary Beth Ellis a general sense of inclusiveness. And, 
Changes in
it's about time! 
latitudes,
Before the Second 
changes in
Vatican Council. 
attitudes
one simply could not worship as a Catholic without the Church constantly getting in the way. 
Fortunately, now that aloof Communion rails and garish tabernacles no longer mar our view of the person sitting across the aisle from us, we may truly concentrate upon the real focus of the liturgy: Ourselves_ It is only fitting, then. that our language should reflect ourselves as non-specifically as possible, so as to avoid offending any entity on Earth, including inert gases, Teenie Beanie Babies, and certain rare species of grubs. 
Unfortunately, we continue to cling to some of the oppressive language of the pre-enlightened Church. Take, for instance, this shockingly insensitive verse of the archaic "O Little Town of Bethlehem:" 
For Christ is born ofMary 
And gathered all abol'e, 
While mortals sleep, the angels keep 
Their watch ofwondering love. 
0 morning stars together 
Proclaim the holy birth 
And praising sing to God the King 
And peace to men on earth. 
.I have never been so insultetl in m~ ,,, entire life. My God, the title alone is sim­ply horrendous. Referring to Bethlehem as "little" is unnecessarily pejorative and may lead to low self-esteem among current Bethlehem inhabitants, who, due to the cruel capitalistic oppression of the West, cannot afford to live any­where larger. Furthermore, the use of the word "town" foists an Occidental term upon an Eastern cultural subset. We might try a more sensitive form of expression, such as "microculture" or "unit of population." And why single out Bethlehem? We must avoid references to oft-mentioned locales entirely; in this manner, less popular areas, such as Miami, are spared the vicious sting of a musical non-mention. 

I was also made vomitously ill by the song's reference to the Virgin Mary. What about the non-virgins in our con­gregation? Who's speaking up for Ally McBeal, for Warren Beatty, for the entire guest list of the "Ricki Lake Show"? Are these brethren and sisteren to be made to suffer by this implied comparison? I should think not. I hardly need to point out that the verse's explicit mention of "Christ" is clearly meant to alienate the entire Semitic population. Why must Catholics be constantly fling­ing the whole Jesus issue in everyone's face? 
This entire lyric is meant to be sung in that most oppressive and vile of all lan­guages: English. The verse could be vastly improved by substituting certain lines with various phrases of the lan­guage of another culture -such as Sesotho, dominant tongue of the Kingdom of Lesotho. For instance, we might replace "O morning stars togeth­er/Proclaim the holy birth" with the . vastly more ljTical "Batekamore e kae." ("Where is the toilet?") 
The worst sins committed by "O Little Town of Bethlehem," however, lie not in what it mentions, but what it does not. Several voiceless minorities are coldly ignored. Sadly lacking is any recognition whatsoever of hermaphrodites who lack dental insurance, producers of refriger­ator magnets, homeless Wookiees, or the 197 6 Croatian Olympic ice dancing team. Oh cruel, cruel Church! What, indeed, would Jesus do? 
Moreover, the lyrics as they stand sim­ply do not invite the congregation to become involved with the liturgy. They do not inspire prayer-twirling or the for­mation of a liturgical mosh pit; nor does a traditional organ accompaniment pro­vide for the participation of such kinder. gentler instruments as the zither or slide whistle. With the implementation of the simple changes suggested here, howev­er, perhaps it may be salvaged to pro­vide background music for a "Congregational Blessing of One Another Ritual" as a pre-consecration exit theme in the Mass for RCIA candi­dates, to be followed by !'ans of Garth Brooks, to be followed by people who insist that the new millennium does not begin until 2001, to be followed by everyone who bet on the Braves in Game 2 of the World Series, until, ideal­ly, the only person left in the church is the priest. 
Taking all sensitivities and community outreach aspects into consideration, the lvric is now "UNIT OF POPULATION:" 
• And as we People ofGarth go forth I'm OK, you "re OK Batekamore e kae? lfwe work together, we just might find out. Jump up and down, and move it all around We raise our hands in blessing for all homeless Wookiees For. we're number one! We're number one! And, peace to the producers ofrefrig­
erator magnets. 
Much, much better. Just be sure to change the lyrics and melody every two weeks. lest -God forbid -the congre­gation gets bored. 
Mary Beth Ellis is a 1999 Graduate of Saint Mary's College. Her column appears every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and nol neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
SCOTT ADAMS

DILBERT 


THE NORMAL SOMETIMES THE RE OR.GA.NI -PEOPLE CAN'T SEE UNASSIGNED HAVE ON PLAN, I ME OR HEf:i..R ME. UNFINISHED BU5I­ST IN ORG-LIM . 
NESS. I CAN SEE THEM. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"If you have knowledge let others light their candles at it." 
Margaret Fuller author 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

Tuesday, November I 6, 1999 BSERVER page 11 
WRC opposes 
the CathOlic 
m1ss1on 

Unli,rtunatt,ly. the issue ol'the Women's Resource Center aguin confronls the University. 
Again, we find the slwlvns of the center litten1d with matnrial from radical l'i-minist organizations such as NOW lwralding support for legaliz.ed abortion, the EH/\ and a smatt!lring of other left-wing causes. The Cnnter has hmm rnprimund("d in the past for having mawrial from local abortion clin­ics ,ixplaining the prices and Sean Vinck dntails of a variety of abortion prorndures. They w,irn suppos,id to remove the olff'nding "value­
Not peace, but 

neutral" material on lhe subject 
the sword 

of abortion. Ynt, tho NOW pam­
phlots rPmain. 
I am inclined lo think that no 
onn assodatnd with tlrn WHC is malicious; quite thfl 
contrary, I am sure that they approach their work at 
tl11i cm1tPr with good intnntions. But on Llrn issue of 
abortion. Tl IEY AHE WHONG. It is an affront to the 
Catholicity of tlw University that pamphlnts from 
NOW, or any other viciously pro-abortion organiza­
tion. should Im plac(id on the shelves of a Hesource 
CcntPr that has thn recognition of the University. and 
tlin tacit lngitimacy that that recognition entails. 
Whal should a young woman (or young man) think ii' Im or she should rntrir into this University recog­nized enclavll in LaFortu,w and !ind advertisements from NOW advocating abortion, and ntlrnr causes that ,u·ri dncidmlly hostil!i to Catholicism? Does the Univmsity approve of such matnrial'? Dons the Uniwrsity fol'! that such advertisements am beneli­cial to tlw spiritual growth of' its stude1nt body? 
Consider a pamphlet entitled "Together we can CII/\N(;1,: TIIE WOHLD." NOW writes, "We organizfl record-breaking crowds !'or protests on issues such as violence and abortion righL-;." They add. "We're putting the squeeze on hatmnonger Hush Limbaugh by targeting advertisers and convincing the Florida Citrus Commission to cancel his one million dollar contract. 'We organize, organize, organize to light the right wing."' NOW continues by quoting Roman Catholic pro-abortion former Sen. Carol Moseley­Braun. "Your !NOW'sl early endorsement and money wm·e key to my decision to run. Your continued finan­cial support and campaign expertise were a strong foundation f'or my campaign." 
r'rr!tty incendiary stuff for a group (the WRC) that dnlines itsf'lf as a "welcoming environment with books. p11ople, and information directed towards wonwn and all they rmcompass; we embrace a diver­sity of races, classes. agns. political bnliefs [emphasis mind. lifoslylos, and physical abilitie1s" (A Pastiche of 1'11rsp1•ctivPs, Women's Resource Center Newslettnr, Nov1imbn, '1J7). This is a farce; the WHC exists as a clearinghouse for lert wing, sometimes pro-abortion propaganda. with only token rnfcrenccs to positions or lwlinfs on the opposite end of the spnctrum. Atta1'.ks rm tlw "right-wing," on so-called "hatomon­grn·s." couplml with glowing references to ethically­challenged pro-abortion Catholic politicians likt~ Mosnlny-Braun is not a constructive way to encourage grnatr•r rnspm:t for lhn inherent dignity ofwomen. Tim WHC will no doubt point to the fact that they havr: nrnterial f'rom the great pro-life group The Wonwn's Care Center. lndend. this is laudable. Yet, il is oll'Pnsivn that material from pro-life and pro-abor­tion orv;anizations should b(1 plar:nd on the samfl 1wdnstal in a 1'.1mt,•r nxisting at a Catholic UniVlirsity, with tlw nxplidt rncognition of tlrn administration of that Catholic University. 
Tlll'r1:forn, I ask that the University exercise its pas­toral 1·nspo11sibility by inwstigating the WRC. Upon finding tlw olfonding matorial, they ought to rt~rnove it and discipline tlw centor in some way. The proba­tion mid r!'primand givnn them two yflars ago has not succt~Pdl'd in rmnoving Urn pro-abortion bias latent in Llw mat1H·ial within th11 WIU:. A ucw. constructive arrangt!l!Wnt must br• mude. The University should, aflcr placing sanctions and reasonable limitations on thn scopn 11f'tlrn information available in I.he WHC, l'liallPngi• tlw c1•ntpr's dirnctors to participatl' moro l'ully in Lill' Catholic mission of the Univorsity of' Notre Dami', by prPar.hing a rww ethic of dignity and rPspt•rt !'or human life. 
SNm Vind is aj,mior PL'i major. lib; column runs I•I•,•r.11 other Tuesday. '/"he 11iews e:rpr<~ssed in lhis column are those ofthe author and not nec<':,;sari!y those ofThe Ohsertmr 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Worst restroom on campus? 
Kudos to Andrew McDowell for his recent study of bathrooms on campus ("The Royal and Not-So-Royal Flush," Scene Nov. 121. However, in spite of his fine research, Andrew Sfll!IDS to have overlooked what we are sure is the worst men's restroom at Notre Dame. Anyone who has evflr visited the Law School and used the men's room in the basement (or even walked past it) will attest to the fact that it truly is the worst facili­ty under the shadow of the Dome. 
This bathroom just reeks; there is no other way to say it. It smells like a diaper full of boiled meat. Or the septic tank of' a slaughterhouse. T~ point is, yau don't even have to be in the bathroom to experience its, ah, unique bouquet; the foul odors creep into the hallway and gag everyone that passes by. Even stu­dents spending time in the activities office across the hall have sometimes had to flee the noxious fumes. 
Worse, this bathroom in unbearably hot. Although no one can determine the source of this outrageous heal, one law professor speculated that it may be situ­ated on top of Hell's primary exhaust system. The heat intensifies the malodorous air to produce a fetid stench so vile you can almost see it. This "restroom" is certainly not for resting. I think Lazarus coming out or the tomb moved with less alacrity than men bolting 

out ofthatjohn. 
Inequitably, the corresponding women's rest room in the law school is much more pleasant. Though we lack any first-hand knowledg11 of the conditions (wn swear). it is our understanding that the ladies' "lounge" comes complete with carpeting and a couch. In fact, we've heard that the women's bathroom is so cozy and comfortable that some of our female compa­triots have been found napping in there. 
We realize that disgusting bathroom conditions, while certainly something everyone can rnlate to, are no joking matter. We simply think that the horrors suffered by both the male law students using the base­ment bathroom and those unfortunate enough just to pass by it need to be brought to the attention of' the campus at large. We understand that the graduat11 students in general are largely ignored by Tim Observer, but some excretory offenses are so severe that they should not go without mention in your pages. 
Robb Kestner David Petron 3tJ anJ 2n,I y~ar Ltw November 12, 1999 

Protesting the School of Americas 
If Notre Dame's graduates included notorious dicta­tors Manuel Noriega and Omar Torrijos of Panama, Leopoldo Galtieri and Roberto Viola ofArgentina, Juan Velasco /\Ivar ado of Peru, Guillermo Rodriguez of Ecuador, and llugo Banzer Suarez of Bolivia, wouldn't US citizens be more than a little concerned about the ideas and values being instilled at Notre Dame? If Notre Dame's graduates were responsible for the assassina­tion of six Jesuit priests in El Salvador, the assassination ofArchbishop Oscar Romero, the torture and murder of 
U.N. workers in Chile, the La Cantuta massacre in Peru, the Uraba massacre in Columbia, and the deaths of 900 civilians in the El Mozote massacre, wouldn't U.S. citizens be indignant and adamant that Notre Dame be shut down immediately? Fortunately, Notre Dame is not responsible for graduating such dictators, nor those accountable for such atrocities, but the U.S. Army's "School of the Americas" (SOA) is. 
The School of the Americas -perhaps more aptly named the "School of' Assassins" -is a U.S. Army training school at Fort Benning, Georgia. SOA trains Latin American soldiers in counter-insurgency and infantry tac­tics. military intelligence, and anti-nar­cotics and commando operations; the School has graduated almost 60,000 soldiers since ils inception in 1946. However, beneath SOA's guise as a noble institution for lighting the drug trade and preserving democracy is evi­dence of the U.S. Army's accountability for training terrorists. According to am m New York Times report, Spanish-lan­guage training manuals used at SOA until 1991 "rncommend interrogation tech­niques such as torture, execution, black­mail, and arresting the relatives of those being questioned." 
In response to the outcry after the Times' report, SOA "updated" its training manuals to include human rights courses (according to Colonel Glenn R. Weidner, the school's commandant). Col. Weidner claims that SOA has never trained anyone to commit crimes or take political power and that "no otlrnr U.S. service school provides as intensive a pro­gram of human rights instruction injts curriculum." In fact. SOA requirns a scant eight hours of human rights training, and only one of 42 courses -"Democratic Sustainment" -in the 1996 course catalogue focuses on human rights and democracy issues. It should also bA noted that in 199i, according Lo SOA's own records, onlv ·13 students look this course, compared with the hundreds who took courses in commando operations. 
Col. Weidner and others, like the former US ambas­sador to Panama. Ambler Moss, frequently defend SOA and accuse its "liberal" opponents of unduly harsh criti­cism just because the School has graduated a few bad apples. Moss considers criticizing SOA similar to "vilify­ing Harvard because of il-; alumnus Ted Kaczynski, alias 'the Unabomber. "' This argument would hold if only a handful ofSOA's graduates had violated tho Universal Declaration on Human HighL-;, but consider the sheer number and percentage of SO/\ graduates cited for human rights abuses against non-combatant civilians; "two of three officers cited in the assassination or Archbishop Romero; three of live cited in the rapi-and murder of four US churchwomen; ten of twelve cited for the El Mozote massacre; and over 100 of 246 cited for atrocities in Columbia. Furthermorn, the full scop11 of atrocities committed by SOA graduates will likely never be known because members of Latin American mili­taries are generally above the law. It is rare that crimes by members of these militaries are investigated and 

rarer still when the names of' those suspected am released" -this according to the human rights group "SOA Watch" whose founder, Maryknoll priest Father Hoy Bourgeois, spoke at Notre Dame earlier this year. Many other priests support Bourgeois ­hundreds, including 135 U.S. Catholic 
bishops and Cardinal Francis George, have signed a declaration recommend­ing the permanent closure of the 
School of the Americas. 
This weekend marks the tenth anniversarv of the assassination of six Jesuit prie;ts, their housekeeper, and her daughter in El Salvador: 19 of the 26 Salvadoran army ollicers cited by a U.N. Truth Commission for this act were trained at -where else? -t.he 
School of the Americas. Over 10,000 
people, including Pax Christi-Notrn Dame, am expected to be at a memori­al service and protest on thfl grounds of 
Fort Benning this weekend. The service will culminate in a silent funeral proces­sion led by mourners carrying eight coffins that bear the names of the two women and six Je1suits who wnre slain. Thousands of prote1sters carrying wooden crosses and grave markers will follow Lim 
coffins across the federal property Jinn at the Fort Benning main gate to the vigil sitn on the base; them, mourners int1md to delivr.r tlrn roflins and crossns to SOA headquarters. about thrnc miles inside Fort Benning. 
Pax Christi-Notre Damo has chartnred a bus that snats over 50 people, and we expect all tlw seats will bn filled; however. therr. are still sr.veral seats r('lllaining. II' any students, faculty or staff are interested in accompanying us to Georgia this wceke1nd -you will not miss any classes, and the cost or the trip is minimal -please come to an informational meeting on Tuesday night at 9 
p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. Your civil disob1\­dience at this peaceful protest \\ill lrnlp r11inforce Pax Christi-Notre Dame's commitmnnt to non-violent social change and give a voice to those who wcro silcncnd by assassins. 
Kyle Smith Senior, ofr:cdmpus November 15, 1')99 


ALBUM REVIEW 
Foo Fighters' new album smells like ... Nirvana 
By EMMETT MALLOY 

A,sisranr Scene Ediror 
Much credit needs to be given to Dave Groh!. With the weight of being the drummer for the most influ­ential band of this dC'cade on his shoul­ders, Groh! left bis Nirvana past and forged ahead with The foo Vighters. Hefusing to be a "replacement" for his forme,r band, (irohl created his own sound, a fusion of punk and rock, bal-· ancing on a thin line between utter chaos and boppy bubblegum pop. While There Is Nothing Left To Lose is defi­nitely the Foo Fighters' best album to date, one has to wonder whether Kurt Cobain's ghost is inhabiting Grohl's hodv. 


From the start, There Is Nothing Left To Lose absolutely screams "NIR­VANA!" With a gritty guitar riff, a catchy basslinc and pounding drums, the album opener "Stacked Actors" could very much have bet>n an In Utero outtake. Groh! even tosses out the nice guy-hush vocals in favor of a very Cobain-ish snarl. 
Not that there's anything wrong with the Nirvana resemblance -it actually gives the album much more "punch" in terms of its intensity and raw energy. fleing the band's most cohesive effort yet, The Foo Pighters' sound is not as saturated with pop melodies .as its pre­vious albums were. 
However, the band still focuses its songwritin,g on a soft-loud arrange­ment, evident in "Headwires," a terrific, ebb-and-flow rocker that grabs the lis­tener's attention and never lets go. Even a little Ted Nugent-inspired riff roars through "Gimme Stitches," with Groh) adding a little attitude. The clos­est thing that the album has to pop is the Beatles-esque "Next Year," with a baseline so poppy that one would swear that Paul McCartney himself was mak­ing a cameo. 
Like the band's previous releases, Grohl taps into his deepest emotions, 
UPCOMING CONCERTS 

COWBOY NOUTH S-tepan Nov. 17· -hosted by SUB 

Pnmus Pennyw•se Chris Cornell Danzia ..... 
Ge1: Up Kid£-< .. 
John Scofjeld Countina Crows Clueensryche areas Allmah Stina 
Stereolab DaysofcheNew. 
Cheap Trick Local H Neil Diamond 

'.ciUvte •··· ,.a:;'• 
·House of Blues ·Nov. 19 Riv•era llov. 10 House ol Blues •.)Nov. I I 
.•·· '"11tNe,ro'r*n":•,i" ..•··.•.•···•·>,:a8 .,1.·•,;t )•...,· 
Park West ·. Nov. I I Araaon Nov. 21-24 R•••era •••· 16 
·· ><Hous••JB1ues:,:,,11ec.,·1;,5: ··· Ch~caao Thea&re Dec. 1.;;4 Metro. . Dec. 6•7. llouse ~, .Bllll!S ....· . Dec. ,9 
Park •Wes1: 
Ne•ro .Dec. I 7 . t,n•1ed C•n-cer Jl:tec. ••••·.7 


resulting in the album's two best tracks On There Is Nothing Left to Los<1: -"Learn To Flv" and "Aurora." As the Dave Grohl rellects upon his past as a first single, "Learn To Fly" explores means of inspiration rather than imitat­Grohl's spiritual side, as the frontman ing it. The song texturP and lyrical pleads, 'Tm looking to the sky to save arrangement rnsonates that or Nirvana, me/I'm looking for a sign of tife." but with this album, Groh! should final­
For a punk-rock band, The Foo ly be regarded as the incredibly 'talPnt­Fighters arc light-years ahead of its ed f'rontman of The Foo Fighters, not as peers, at least lyrically. On the lirst lis­the drummer from "that band." With ten, "Aurora" is thought to be about the There Is Nothing Left To Lose, the band Aurora Borealis, although upon further pays tribute to Grohl's roots whiln at reflection, the song slowly evolves into a the same time building upon the sound love song, with Groh! exposing his that made the previous albums so suc­thoughts for all the world to hear. cessful. 

Today 

An•.DiFra11co -To the Teeih Dr. Dre -Chronic 100 I ~Non .lethn.-Chanbus1:ers Go PoptHiss-151:hAnniwersary Star Profile Norn -Issues Marily.n Nanson-Lase.Tour On Eanh

·!•,~-•J,!t!1' ': ,~,c1a.-,, 101:h Century 
. ".' 9 · arltijey Spears · Star Proflile 

Beek .. IINlnite vu11:ures ·•••..••·l!l•r,sseffe -Alanis Unplu99ed 
· ·· ·Nolx -Decnne 
Ora-, -Sti1ches 
Pbfs-, !1•~1t1on comes Aliwe 
, ..... Efe BHncl .. Blue 
.Violent Femmes -Yiwa Wisconsin 
COWBOY MOUTH 
TOMORROW NIGHT AT STEPAN TICKETS ARE STILL AVAILABLE!!! 
• . I ' 

O
THE 

Tuesday, November 16, l999 BSERVER page 13 
=================================================================================--------------­
ALBUM REVIEW 
Incubus goes from H.S. to the Family Values tour 
By BRIAN KORNMANN S,,ne Mu.,k Criric 
Usually, sucr.Pss does nol come quit:kly in lhn music industry. Most bands struggln underground for yrntrs lrnl'oni thev finally got lhnir big lmmk. HEM. 1.nss Than Jake. Nirvana and Fae,~ to F1tc1• nm pnrfoct 
nxamplns. on Enjoy i'or Llw band Incubus with
Incubus 

Incubus, suc­the hr.avv­t'l'i-is camr• in a mctal industr(al dif'l'rirPlll way. sound found in 1:iw high school S.C.I.E.N.C.E., f'rif' IHIS ro rm1HI making il by th1• Calabasas. far tho band's Cillif. hand in best r1~leasn. I1) ') I . an d Iikn M a k c 
many young Yourself opens bands. start1\d with the hard­playing mainly hitting song small dubs and "Privilege," birthday par­which sounds tins. Tl11• hand's similar to populariLy gn•w Korn's "Got the quickly. du,• to Life." The its great livn album only gets show and bnttcr from uniqun sound. there. 
In 1<J 1H,. only Scratching and two years out of mixing by DJ high school and Kihnore is foa­with two El's 
ture d, most undnr its bnll. cffoctively in th t• band was lhn four-minute
**** (out of five)

signPd to Sony's 


Immortal !\!'cords {Korn, tlw L:rgt!). Incubus put togdlrnr a "hest or· n,llnction from its two EPs llnd rnleast-d tlw album Enjoy Incubus in January t<JCJ7. 
1)1\spil,• hPing an 11xcellent album. !:njoy !nculnts did not sell well and was ignurNl b-y radio stations. But tlrn hand kept busy writing and rl'cording songs for its l'irst full­l1rng1h r1•1·ord. S.C.I.E.N.C.E .. for Immortal Hecords, which was rnlnasecl in Octolrnr ICJCJ7. It met tlrn same fatp as its previous release, lwwever, and thc band was once again passNI ovHr i11 records stores and on radio. 'll. 
Things began lo change ror the band oncH tlw Family Values tour kicked off in latP 1<J<J7. Incubus was Uw opening band for a leg or tour that foatured Korn, lr.c Culw and !.imp Bizkit. As thn lour Wl)nt on, Incubus bnga11 drawing rave reviews and by tlw end of the lour the song "N1!W Ski 11" s tartod making the rounds on college radio stations across the United Statns. In addition lo this. Incubus had sold 200,000 copies of its old albums and devcl­opnd a large fun base. 
The band took a break ti-om touring in 1<J98 to begin work on its third major release, Make Yourself. The album perfoctly combines the funky electronic sound featured 
epic "Battlestar 
Scralatchtica." 
In addition to hard rock and techno. Incubus gets a little funky on the album. The songs "Consequence," "The Warmth" and "Pardon Mc" sound like some of lnr.ubus' early funk songs sur.h has "llilikus" and "Azwethinkweiz." 
The song layout on Make Yourself is a big rr.ason why the album is so good. There are no blocks of songs that sound alike. Instead, Incubus mixes the genres of hard rock, t11chno and funk evenly throughout the album. making it a very fun record to listen to and showing how much the band has improved in such a short period of time. 
Make Yourself will appeal to fans of Korn and Limp Bizkit the most, but it is such a good album that most everyone will also /ind it very enjoy­able. 
Feedback welcome at Kornmann.l@nd.edu 
ALBUM REVIEW 

Jam band's new album is "wu"-nderful 

By ANDREW JONES Scene Music Critic 

Only three years ago, a band playing in a tiny Minneapolis bar started to attract crowds that filled every inch of the bar. Live recordings of its zany performances began to r.irculate. and the word spread. Today. that band, The Rig Wu, has one of the most unique sounds in a large under­ground scene of jam music. After graduat­ing !"rom its weekly perfor­mances at the s m a I I Minneapolis bar, within the last three years, The Big Wu has gone on to play the most honor­able festivals and venues of the jam scene. Elaborating on musical influences like The Allman Brotlrnrs, Phish and the Grateful Dead, the songs on Tracking Buffalo Through the Bathtub represent a tease of the endless possibilities for the band's compositions during a live perfor­mance. While the album only contains a portion of The Big Wu's repertoire, it clearly showcases the basis of the band's incredible talent and unique sound. Fun is a good way to best describe that unique sound. The album begins with "Silcanturnitova," a hilarious song about flipping burgers. Two gui­tarists provide various instrumental parts to every song, especially in "Silcanturnitova." Chris Castino, lead guitarist for The Big Wu, fuels the band's Grateful Dead sound with a dis­tinct guitar tone almost exactly like Jerry Garcia's. The Big Wu's extraordinary bassist, Andy Miller, and percussionist Terry VanDeWalker fortify most of the tracks. Miller and VanDeWalker spice up the band's sound with their funk-oriented techniques. Songs like "Kangaroo" display the band's ability to sustain a funk sound while singing tight harmonics about a kangaroo that "means more to me than just anotlrnr wannab11 wallaby." 
Tracking Buffalo Through the Bathtub exemplifies the Wu's talent for writing catchy lyrics that add to tlrn 
e!Ter.t of its posi­tive grooves. Yet. when the band slows its tempo, the inso­lencn of its lyrics becomes highly evident. 
The middle of the album lags with slow songs like "Puerto Hico," and is draggnd down by lyrics that am simply annoying aftnr a while. "Punrto Rico" is proba­bly thn most annoying song with thn worst lyrics, ynt all of the slow songs rednem -their quality with lengthy and beautifully melodic instru­mental sections, as evident in "Take thn World by Storm." 

Tracking Buffalo Through thn Bathtub ends with the band's brilliant original, "Hed Sky," a lengthy song that entails all of the band's tal11nts. "Red Sky" consists of a funk groovn that gels with articulate guitar phras­ing, keyboard fills and lovable lyrics. 
Under the track list a sentencn states: "All songs written (and re-writ­ten every show) by THE BIG WU." This album doesn't deserve five stars because it isn't the band's best work. Bands such as The Big Wu am fighting an audiophile-dominatnd culture that only knows music as it lays on album tracks -a culture that only wants to hear songs in performance exactly how they are on a compact disc. The Big Wu's best renditions of these songs occur on a stage, which is the true testing ground of great musicians. 
Feedback is welcome at Jones.146@nd.edu 
Bowie's new album keeps listeners up for 'hours' 
l\y JAMES SCHUYLER Sc-e1w Music Criric 
Think of llw most inl1uential artist of mudnrn rock 'n' roll still actively pro­
ducing musir. 
Most pPopln would lw strntdwd to think ol' David Bowie. Although probably one ol' 1.lw most t·.omplntn artists.of rnc()rrl, David llowip's accumplishnwnts sct'm sonrn­linws lo slip by tlw waysidn whn11 it rnmPs to rod ·11· roll legends lik1~ Eric c:lapton. 
l\owiP rcccrntly r<'lnaiwd his 23rd album. It is ac1ually a two-fold project, ac:rnrding to llowi1·. mc,wL lo lw both ,Ill album for his gc,wration !although not necessarily for him) and a soundtrack for Bowie is mur.h more successful in this an upcoming video game that he stars in. point of his career than many artists, ''Omikron: The Nomad Soul." such as Eric Clapton, mainly because he 
"Hours ... " rep-knows .what he is resl'nts a r!~lurn to 
best at: music that some of the sounds sometimes causes of his earlier work. a severe deprns­Tim album on a sion. But this is a whol.e has a very good thing. melodic and This album is sombor tone, simi­more of a return to lar to much of his songwriting-orient­Parlier work, such e d music. rather as Hunky Dory. than the beat-t\ssureclly, it is based work of his mcmnt for the gnnnration that listened to releases in the 'IJOs, even it will probably his earliHr music or, al !fiasl. those who not live up to his more legendary records lovi• the music from that era. such as Ziggy Stardust. 
It does show. however, that thos11 who built the current foundations of music am still capable of being influential to younger artists. Probably tlrn best thing that can b11 said about llours is that its songwriting shinns and the music does not take a back seat, complnnwnting tlw lyrics almost perfectly at timns. 
This album represents tlw passage or time. It not only works track hy track. hut also as a whole, as an album should. Too often, albums are basnd on 0110 or two good songs. padded by (iller. BowiP has always been musically in11uential. but hopefully other artists will lwgin to understand that an album should lw viewed as wholn complott~ work. likt' I lours. 
'. 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, November 16, 1999 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Johnson wins NL Cy Young to match his AL award 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Randy Johnson got a lot more support from Cy Young voters than he did from the Arizona Diamondbacks. 
Looking past a won-lost record that-wasn't nearly as good as Mike Hampton's, baseball writers made the Big Unit only the second pitcher to win a Cy Young Award in each loaguo, giv­ing his a large victory Monday in voting for the National League prize. 
''I'd like to think this aw·ard isn't solely based on wins and losses," said Johnson, 17-9 with a 2.48 ERA. 
"There was a lot more to the season I had than wins and losses. Quite honestly, I feel still this was the best year I had in my career." 
He received 20 first-place votes, 11 seconds and one third for 134 points in bal­loting by the Baseball Writers· Association of America. 
Hampton, who went 22-4 for Houston and led the NL in wins, was second with 11 first-place votes, 17 sec­onds and four thirds for 110 points. 
Atlanta's Kevin Millwood was third with one first, four seconds and 18 thirds for 36 points. 
"l don't think the voters could have gone wrong picking either of the three," Johnson said. 
Looking past his record, Johnson was dominating. The 6-foot-10 left-hander led the major leagues with 
12 complete games and 364 strikeouts in 271 2-3 innings. 
He was 19 short of the strikeout record set by Nolan Ryan in 1973, wind­ing up with the fourth-high­est single-season total, and struck out 10 or more 23 times, matching the record Ryan set with the California Angels in 1973. 
"The one thing that was the least in his control was the wins and losses," Diamondbacks manager Buck Showalter said. "Scoring runs and catching the baseball. that's the thing he couldn't control. Thank goodness people realized that." 
Arizona scored just 11 runs in his nine losses. and he left four games with leads the bullpen failed to hold. 
From June 25-July 10, Johnson had a stretch of four starts in which his team was shut out. 
He allowed just six runs during that stretch, but Arizona got only six hits ­the Diamondbacks were no­hit by the Cardinals' Jose Jimenez, one-hit by Cincinnati, two-hit by St. Louis and three-hit by Oakland. 
"I didn't dwell on it," Johnson said. "I never com­plained about anything because I realized it was part of the game and some­ti mes whatever goes around comes around." 
Johnson had a 1.41 ERA in those games, but his record dropped from 9-3 to 9-7. 
"Sometimes I've pitched 

CLASSIFIEDS 
extremely well and the opposing pitcher has pitched that mur,h better," Johnson said. "I have respectable numbers out­side the won-loss record. 
"Unfortunately, people look at the won-lost record and evaluate the year or your career on that, and it's not really fair some­times." 
Johnson, 36, joined Gaylord Perry as the only pitchers to win Cy Youngs in each league. 
The Big Unit won the AL Cy Young with Seattle in 1995; Perry won with Cleveland in 1972 and with San Diego in 1971t 
"To win this award in both leagues is quite an accomplishment," Johnson said. ''I'm going out on a limb but I'm assuming Pedro Martinez will win tomorrow. It will be myself and Pedro and Gaylord Perry. That's great compa­ny." 
Martinez, who won it for Montreal in 1997, went 23­4 with a 2.07 ERA for the Boston Red Sox this year. 
Johnson, who earned a $250,000 bonus for win­ning the award, became only the second pitcher since 1991 to break the hold by Atlanta's Greg Maddux, Tom Glavine and John Smoltz. 
After winning for Chicago in 1992, Maddux won the next three for the Braves; Glavine won in 1991 and 1998, and Smoltz won in 1996. 
Hampton earned a $50,000 bonus for finishing second. 


The Observer accepts classifieds eveiy business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. Tlie charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. Tlie Observer reserves the tight ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Free CD of cool indie music when  SPRING BREAK 2000  FOR SALE  Spring Break 2000  Free Trips &  CK, sports has more fun  
NOTICES  you register at mybytes.com, the ultimate website for your college needs.  PANAMA CITY BEACH FLORIDA FROM $149 PER PERSON SAND­ BC & Stanford tix. Best Prices AM • 232-2378  Meals. Jamaica,Cancun,Bahamas,Barbad os,Florida,Padre.Book now for Free  And we get to go on trips.  
PIPER BEACON BEACH RESORT  .  PM · 288-2726  Meals & 2 Free Trips.Book before  How's the surfing in New York?  
THE COPY SHOP  If you can bring pacl<age from  THE "FUN PLACE"!  Dec. 17 for LOWER PRICES!!  
Lafortune Student Center  Phila/S. Jersey to ND, call 272·  TIKI BEACH BAR ENTERTAIN•  ND Football tix  1800-426-7710  Feel better, Nikki B  
PHONE 631-COPY  2883  MENT BY BOOGIE INCORPO­ BOUGHT & SOLD  www.sunsplashtours.com  
www.CopyShopND.com  RATED BIKINI CONTESTS MALE  AM -232-2378  Whal hapJilened to the summer  
Store Hours  HARD BODY CONTESTS  PM · 288-2726  weather?II  
Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnighl Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm  FOR RENT  3 POOLS LAZV RIVER RIDE WATER SLIDE  FOR SALE  looking for a unique gift idea? How about a personalized color pic­ Mall, how was your anniversary  
Sat: Noon-6:00pm  HUGER BEACHFRONT HOT TUB  N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS  ture calendar?  dinner?  
Sun: Noon-Midnight  ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE  MINI GOLF GIFT SHOP SUITES  CALL 271-9412  Bring in 12 of your favorite pictures  
HOME FOR  UP TO 10 PEOPLE  and we'll do the rest!!!  Kessler, I don'! work for Sports.  
...  LOST & FOUND  ND-SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 243-0658.  1-800-488-8828 WWW.SANDPIPERBEACON.COM SPRING BREAK 2000  BUYING~~OTRE DAME v? y,7)LLEGE TICKETS. CALt 289-8048.  THE COPY SHOP laFortune Student Center  Quit ho-ing me out to your depart·· ment. Laura's life sucks and she quits.  
LOST: CRUCIFIX WITH BROWN  WALK TO SCHOOL  Cancun, Mazatlan, Acapulco,  www.thecommentator.com  Life, that is.  
BEADS BEFORE BREAK.  KEEP·  http://mmmrentals.homepage.com  Jamaica & S. Padre  4 BC Tickets Needed!  
SAKE. PLEASE CALL CAROL AT 631­ 232-2595 or mmm.renta!s@aol.com  Reliable TWA flights.Biggest Parties & Best packages.  Must be close to field. Willing to pay big $.  www.NDToday.com  If she quit the O she wouldn't get tree classifieds.  
7484.  Book by Dec. 1 & SAVE up to  Call Brad @ 232-3464  Babysitter needed for 4-year old,  
$200!  transportation required. Tues. &  Go TEAM 395!  
WANTED Free Ona Bedroom Apartment near Campus A family with three children seeks fun.energetic student or graduate to live in charming apartment for FREE in exchange for mutually agreeable babysitting responsibili­ties.Fax name.phone # and brief  FOR SALE Spring Break Specials!Bahamas Party Cruise 5 Days $2791 Includes Meals! Awesome Beaches,Nightlife!Cancun & Jamaica 7 Nights From $399! Florida $1291springbreak!ravel.com  1.800 SURFS.UP www.studentexpress.com TICKETS Desperately NEED 2 BC TICKETS S!udenVGA  Need as many BC tickets for as close to face as possible for friends and family. Help me out. Cail Brian at 634-3346 12 BC G/1.'s. Must sell. Call Dennis 1-914-654-9200. 2 B.C. GA's FOR SALE!! Call Kim @ 634-3534  Thurs. 2:45-7'.45 or 5:30-7:45 for Spring semester. Experience with children preferred but not necessary. Call Beth at 254-9060 or email at BLP1975@aol.com. $100 REWARD 5' by 20' MIQHIGAN Banner miss• ing from ND vs UM game.Please Call 4-1854  Fluffy is proud. Joy to the fishies in the deep blue sea .... If f burst into tears in the meeting tomorrow, it is totally no! my !ault. !blame society. M'Shan, how are those bananas?  
note describing experience and interests to Walker at 233-2308.  1-800-678-6386  Call 284-4419...........................  A porpoise is an animal, BK. She  Why am I flypaper for freaks? Why?  
gmbid.com is a pre IPO start-up luxury auction web site, pioneered  FOR SALE N.D. FOOTBALL TIX  NEED BC 2 TICKETS  PERSONAL  can't serve 2 animals tor your department.  Photo guys are the best.  
by Georges Marciano, the founder ot Guess? Jeans. We are looking  CALL 271-9412  Calf Chu k. 4-4785  FAX IT FAST!!!  That must be one •••••.,. desperate Hindu.  Sorry to keep you up late, Hsu  
for a part time campus representa­tive to join us in arranging local pro­motions, PR. giveaways, e-mail  FOR SALE  WANTED NOTRE DAME FOOT­BALL TICKETS  Sending & Receiving at THE COPY SHOP  Hey EL, how are the FC's? ...................... BK, JS, JD, MC  Hi, Erin, I hope you're having a good day.  
campaigns, sponsorships, etc. Must be interested in marketing, a self­starter, fun, and a team player. Please email resumes to:  N.D. FOOTBALL TIX CALL 271-9412 Phone Cards 669min. $20  271-1526 SELL & BUY GA FOOTBALL TICK· ETS  Lafortune Student Center Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1 FAX IT FAST!!'  Hey sports, stay away from all our cute newsies!  JC says no to the modesty pants. Sometimes you feel like a nut.  
reps@gmbid.com  243-9361 or 258-4805  277-6619  Hey l, S and J •· I'm coming home!  Sometimes you don't.  


page 16 
TRACK AND FIELD 
Johnson tests positive for banned substance 
TORONTO 
Ben Johnson has tested pos­itive again, but the sprinter's agent. who paid for the latest test, said the former world record-holder was the taking the banned substance for medical reasons. 
Morris Chrobotek, the agent for the sprinter who was banned from competition for life in 1993 after a second positive drug test, confirmed Monday that Johnson tested positive for a banned diuretic in October. 
Chrobotek, who paid for the test in question, said the result was leaked before the Canadian Centre for Ethics in Sports had concluded that it constituted a doping infrac­tion. 
"It is devastating to him, as it was to me," Chrobotek said of Johnson's reaction to the test. 
Chrobotek said he was con­fident the test result would be cleared up and called for the person who leaked the report to be prosecuted. 
Victor Lachance, CEO of the Canadian Centre for Ethics in Sports, said he could not com­ment directly on the case. 
"All I can tell you is we can't confirm or deny any particular report concerning Mr. Johnson or any other ath­lete," he said from Ottawa. "I can tell you that when a dop­ing infraction has been deter­mined by the CCES ... we do inform the sport and it is then a matter of public record. 
"Mr. Chrobotek is Mr. Johnson·s agent and if he is telling you those facts, then he must he speaking based on information he has and con­siders to be reliable." 
That probably means that both parts of .Johnson's urine sample have yet to be tested. 
When the A sample tests positive, the CCES informs the athlete and his or her sports foderation. But a positive test is not made public until the B sample is tested. 
Diuretics are banned because they can mask per­formance-enhancing drugs. 
"Ilow can you cheat when you're not even allowed to 
according to Chrobotek who equated the feeling to that of a kidney stone. 
"He was in excruciating pain," he said. 
Asked why Johnson, given his doping test history, would take pills from a foreign phar­macist, the agent said he sim­ply needed pain relief. 
"I would have cut mv arm off just to save myself from that pain," he said. 
Chrobotek said the pills in question were obtained 18 months ago in Los Angeles where Johnson was doing an ESPN interview. The sprinter went to a pharmacist -"you know how expensive it is to go to a doctor in the States, especially in LA" -and was given pills to take care of the pain. 
Johnson, who turns 38 on Dec. 30, took more of the pills about a year ago when he felt the same pain. A drug test in June was negative, Chrobotek said. 
He took another of the pills three weeks before the Oct. 7 test. 
Chrobotek said he initially dismissed a phone message from Athletics Canada that 
. Johnson had tested positive as a crank call until he received a subsequent fax on Oct. 26 from the Canadian Centre for Ethics in Sports confirming the matter. "The information leaked out of somewhere," he said. "CCES advised this was kept confidential, that this finding does not yet constitute a dop­ing infraction." Chrobotek said that follow­ing the positive October test, Johnson got a doctor's pre­scription for the same med­ication to prove it was a legiti­mate treatment for the pain in question. Johnson, who had his 100­meter world record and gold medal stripped at the Seoul Olympics in 1988, continues to train despite the fact his appeal to return to competi­tion was rejected by the world governing body of track earli­er this year. This summer he announced plans for an anti­drug foundation. 

Tuesday, November 16, 1999
The Observer . SPORTS 
TENNIS 

Irish ink top-20 recruit Haddock 
Special to The Observer 
Luis, Haddock, ranked 20th by the United States Tennis Association among 18-and­under boys, bas signed a national letter of intent to attend Notre Dame, men's ten­nis head coach Bob Bayliss announced Monday. The Puerto Hico native also was ranked third in the country last year in doubles. 
"We are very excited to have a player of Luis' proven ability to join our squad," said Bayliss. "Ho is an aggressive 

"He is an aggressive all­court player with tremen­dous speed and big weapons in his forehand and serve.,, 
Bob Bayliss men's tennis coach 
all-court player with tremen­dous speed and big weapons in his forehand and serve. In addition to being a top 20 sin­gles player last year, Luis' number three double.s rank­ing shows that he can be an asset there as well." 
Haddock looks to become the second men's tennis monogram winner to come to Notrn Dame from Puerto Hico. 
· Pedro Rossell, the current governor of Puerto Rico, played for the Irish from 1963-66, captaining the '66 team that finished 15-0. Haddock is a senior at Colt-gfo Catlico Notre Dame, where he is ranked first in his class with a 4:0 cumulative grade­point average. 
Exploring Attitudes About Appearance and Eating Habits 
University Counseling Center 
631-7336 Room 300 Tuesdays, 4:00-5:00 p.m. 
Drop-In/Discussion Series 
Attend One Or All Of The Following Sessions (No Sign-Up Needed) 
Session I: 
Private Body Talk: Enhancing Body Image November 16 
Session II·: 
"I don't have an eating disorder ...yet!" Feeling Trapped When You Compare Yourself To Others November 23 
Session Ill: 
Living In A World Where Being A "Plus Size" Is A Minus: Strategies For Self-Acceptance November 30 


THE CITY OF LIGHT 
Come to an informational meeting presented by the co-directors of 
CUPA 
(Center for University Programs Abroad) who have come -directly from Paris to speak to you. 
4:00 p.m. Tuesday, Nov. 16th Room 143 DeBartolo 
WWW ..'' 



Countdown to 
J2K@ND: 

45 days 
2 ob~ 
0 I 12 Badin Hall 631-5242 G103 Hes&urgh library 631-7800 faemail ministry.J@nd.edu @w!-'b www.nd.edu7~ministry 
This Week in Campus Ministry 
Monday. November 8 throu~h Monday. November 29 l03 Hesburgh library. 112 Badin Hall Freshman Retreat #26 (Dec. 3-4} Sign-Up 
Targeted Dorms: Carroll. Cavanaugh, Farley. Fisher., ,Knoll, ,. 
Pangborn, Siegfried, Stanford. and Welsh Family 
Tuesday. November 16, 7:00 pm Badin Holl Chapel Campus Bible Study 
Wednesday. November 17. 8:00 pm Wilson Commons Graduate Student Bible Study Group 
Wedne5day, November 17. 10:00-10:30 pm Walsh Hall Chapel Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
A spirit-filled, student-led power half hour of prayer and music for students of all Christian faith tradilions. 
Monday, November 22. 7:00-8:30 pm Earth Science Building, Room 102 Basilica Community Choir Rehearsal 
Good Stuff to Know 
IT'S NOT TOO LATE!!! 
EMMAUS FAITH-SHARING GROUPS ARE STILL BEING FORMED!!! 

Communities of faith Sharing and Scripture Study 
• Take this opportunity to deepen your friendships or make new ones while growing in your faith. 
• Each Emmaus group consists of 6-8 members meeting weekly for about an hour to pray, discuss Scripture and 
faith-related issues while sharing the "ins and outs" of daily lives as ND students. 
• Join individually, with friends or as an entire group. 
For more information contact: Clare Sullivan at 1-3389 in the Badin Campus Ministry Office. 

o celebrate the Year 2000 as the Great Jubilee has concrete nomic plight of the poor of the world. In his apostolic letter 
nte, he urges people "to raise their voice on behalf of all the poor of posing the Jubilee as an appropriate time to give thmlght, among other thi9.gs,. to· r,t:;du£i,lg substantially, if not canceling outright, the international debt which serioq~y fh\-ealJns the future of many nations." (n.51) 
What effects does a heavy debt burden have on the people of the 
poorest nations? Here are some examples: 
• 
In 1996 the government of Mozambique spent twice as much money "ser­vicing" --that is, making timely interest and principal payments --its interna­tional debt as it spend on health and education. Yet one out of four children in Mozambique dies before reaching the age of five due to infectious disease (which are preventable in the US). 

• 
In Ethiopia, debt payments are four time public spending on health, while over 100,000 children die every year frrom easily preventable and treatable diarrhea. • 

• 
In 1996 Uganda spent only three dollars per person on health care while spending seventeen doJlars per person on repaying its debt. Yet one of every five Ugandan children dies from a preventable disease before reaching the age of five. 


Compiled from Jubilee 2()()()/USA 
What are pol/tlcal leaders saying about debt re/let? 
' ' Simply put, unsustainable debt is helping to keep too many poor countries and poor people in poverty. That is clearly why the Pope a11d so 111a11y other world leaders from all walks oflife have asked 11s all to do more to reduce the debt ofthe poorest nations as a gift to the new millennium ­-not just to them, but to all the rest ofus, as well. ' ' 
-President Cli11to11, in a speech amwu11ci11g his administration :r 
committme11t to /00% debt relief for the world's poorest nations 
How can I find out more about the Jubilee mwement for debt relief? 
•Checkout 
www.J2000usa.org or www.nccbuscc.org/sdwp/index.htm. 

• 
Write your local Congressperson to support HRI095. 

• 
Call the debt relief task force at 1-7949 for campus-related events. 


More Good Stuff to Know 
y1ro1u1i:'"' WORtrl[,i, llJ!flitJlt!~.ff,,g.t 'W~!tn.il.t 'llh1'tiRH.. 1flOi~tMl,, Vt?t:U\UI.. l)JfORIDt~ "trf@lf:UH:. WOIIIH" W~tfirtti~ 1WORH.. WOllfi·it, '\ill·OIRDi. ~~\1tlfUl(11 lffORK"' WOIPH~.. woiu,i., 'WtHIUliK.. W~'RH.. lfif(J!Rlt(,. Wlt!ffiM.. W@f!H~, "11@ffltH.. '~!ltCHlJ~I.. 11Wt. RH,. W<~RH.. WORlif:"' 1\H~Rmi.,, Vl~)ifiK.. ~f@RH,. PRAY. ,i,w·oRH:,. 1Wt3. HH,. W1;tH!fH~t~ W'!IRH. v11rnn1<1< l1if@Rift,. ·w~HH~ '\l~f-i{~I!}\!~. ~~f()!:iitllit.. 1qJ'ORlt't, lN'Off'Urt. lff~H'f!ffg~ lrttf{@lffiUfl~,i 1111lf'1~H.H.. WORK. WitHmH:t, WOOH.. WOIHI.,, lMt~f'Ult:.. 1~W'4.'HIH,. Yl1rlt1HH:,. '\NOIP.t.H,. WOHH.. ¥iffJBfiH.. w1n·..'; IEMI.~.-• . ,. ~[l!~~Rffll.. lMORH.. \i~fOR.·;,,.. -~Hii.
t1 1 · ·!lli.IlllU I , WHAT STANDS OUT AT
1 " 

..~ m:· ····· ··p,;p,;~~-THE END OFYOUR DAY1 
W1~~·i I d )-~~11.:..li" 'W@Rl·fl.. ~\fOiftH. WOllU}E. ·v.uc RH. WORH.. WO. K~ 1WORm1t.. Vf@Rlli.. \VOR,H. WORH. VIORm«. 
EVERY WEDNESDAY. I OPN. WALSH HALL CHAPEL. 
.. 
" 
....... 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS 
WOMEN'S SWIMMING 

Wolllen's team laps competition 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE Saine Mary's Edicor 
Powering their way to an unbeaten record so far this sea­son. the Irish women swimmers and divers improved to 6-0 with three dual meet wins this weekend. 
Beating Women's Miami of Ohio 
Swimming

223-77. the w o m e n Notre Dame 223 secured two 
Miami (OH) 77 

additional victories by Notre Dame 242 defeating 
Kenyon 58

Kenyon 242­58 a nd Notre Dame 198 
Pittsburgh 198-102. win-Pittsburgh 102 ning 12 of the 16 events. While the scores posted 
improved the team's record, the meet was good. but not great according to Irish head 
coach Bailey Weathers. 
"It's a hard thing when you swim three different teams," Weathers said. "You go in wor­rying about all three, and you have to put your best lineup forward. The lineup we swam this weekend was the best one we could put together swim­ming three teams." 
Distance events proved to be the high point of the meet, with junior Kristen Van Saun com­ing away with double wins for the Irish. Completing the 1650 freestyle in 16 minutes, 47.91 seconds, Van Saun returned in the 500 with a first place finish 
and a season-best time of 4:57.70. 
Irish butterfliers dominated the waters Saturday, with the women capturing first, second and third place finishes in the 200 butterfly against all three teams. Led by senior Alison Newell's first place finish in 
2:04.79. freshman Amy Derger claimed second in 2:05.08. Senior Elizabeth Barger com­pleted the trio's effort, captur­ing third in 2:07.93. 
Sprint freestylers also turned in solid performances, with junior Carrie Nixon and sopho­more Brooke Davey teaming up for a one-two finish in the 50 freestyle. Nixon's first place fin­ish posted at 23.50, followed by Davey in 24.47. Nixon finishe.l off the sprints with another first place finish in the 100 freestyle in 51.48. 
Single event wins came from the 400 medley relay team of sophomore Kelly Hecking, sophomore Alison Lloyd, Barger and Nixon, freshman Lindsay Moorhead in the 200 freestyle, Hecking in the 100 backstroke, and senior Shannon Suddarth in the 200 breast stroke. The 400 freestyle relay team of Moorhead, Davey, Nixon and junior Brenda Reilly finished the day with a final win. 
The divers came up short of a win, but they found solid per­formances in sophomore Heather Mattingly's second place finishes on the one-meter and three-meter boards, and senior Rhiana Saunders fourth 
1999-2000 Season 
Notre Dame Film, Television, and Theatre Presents 

... 
,, 
=:=\;:JJr~}~:.
:-.;:::::::?::::;:;~::: 
Tickets are avaiit@il:1.aFortun~ St~d~;tc~~t~/ricket Office. Mastercard and \i~~rs call 631-8128 Visit our website :J11ttffe\\www.nd.edu\--eothweb 
place finishes in the one-meter and three-meter events. Senior Gina Ketlehohn wrapped up with fifth place finishes on each board. 
Heading into this weekend's Minnesota Invitational, the women look to incorporate speed to strengthen solid per­formances, said Weathers. 
"We're faster than we've been all season, but we still need to get better speed-wise," Weathers said. "We still have to continue to build speed. We've done quality work, and have a good training base. We've done the right things in the weight room. The last thing we've got to do is incorporate that speed." 
But as far as lineups go, the women look at one of the more solid squads in recent history. 
"This is one of the more bal­anced teams that we've had," Weathers said. "We've got solid athletes in every event. It will be interesting to see where we are as the season goes on." 

Tuesday, November 16, 1999 
MEN'S SWIMMING 
Notre Dame falls to 0-3 with loss to Pittsburgh 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE Saint Mary's Editor 
The men's swimming and diving team didn't have much more luck than the football team did in warding off the Pittsburgh Panthers. 
Securing wins in only three of 16 events Saturday, the Irish men's record fell to 0-3 with the loss to Pittsburgh, leaving the team still searching for a victory early in the season. Pittsburgh. the defending Big East champion, is undefeated thus far this season. 
"If you saw the football game, yuu saw the swim meet," said head coach Tim Welsh. "We've been improving, but we were flatter against Pittsburgh." 
The Irish did pick up some individual highlights, with solid individual performances from several competitors. 
Senior captain Ray Fitzpatrick posted one of three wins for the Irish, securing a first place finish in the 200-yard freestyle. Posting a time of 1 minute, 42.04 seconds, Fitzpatrick's time was the best time by an. Irish swimmer this season. 
Notre Dame's second win came from junior Ryan Verlin in the 200 butterfly, who secured another win with his finish of 1:53.26. Edging Pittsburgh competitor Adrian Figueroa by two tenths of a sec­ond, Verlin posted another sea­son individual best and team best for the year in the 200 but­terfly. 
Divers also posted points for the Irish, with senior Herb Huesman and freshman Andy Maggio securing a one-two fin­ish off the one-meter board. 
Huesman finished with a score of 182.55, followed by Maggio's 178.40. 

"The divers are clearly one of our strengths," said Welsh. 
. "Compared with this time last year, we didn't have any divers. Now we have four." 
The Irish squad's depth pro­vided for some second, third, and fourth place finishes, bring­ing in the bulk of the points for the team. 
Distance swimmers were another point of strength, with sophomore Jonathan Pierce pulling in a second place finish in the 1000 freestyle in 9:35.94. Elliot Drury followed in fourth with a time of 9:46. 17. Pierce also claimed third in the 500 freestyle in 4;42.82. 
Second place finishes came from sophomore David Horak in the 100 backstroke (52.89), junior Brian Skorney in the 200 backstroke (1:58.93), junior Dan Szilier in the 200 breas­troke (2:07.74), Verlin in the 100 butterfly (52.22), Maggio in three-meter diving (172.50) and the 400 freestyle relay team of Fitzpatrick, sophomore Mike Koss, Hrak and junior James Scott-Browne. 
But while the men still search for a victory, morale on the team is high, Welsh said. 
"We're hungry for a win," he said. "But nobody is dragging their fingers on the ground in self-pity." 
The Irish host Western Ontario this Friday at Rolfs Aquatic Center, hoping to gar­ner their first win of the season. 
"It's been a hard series of three meets," Welsh said. "Although the record says loss­loss-loss, we've been getting progressively faster. We should see winning ways-on Friday." 
Oetu-el"i1rj Tk &f~t Pizza.I v.v .1-1, @J©Gl~ ~[})© © . ®©[rr 7](!]©0cflru~gg  
12 Anytime Anytime you call between you call between 10:30-12:595:30 & 7:00,9 j 9 the price of yourthe price of your 2 large 1 large 1 topping . topping pizzas 6pizza is the time you call.is the time you call. * Plus tax* Plus tax  
r--------------,Lunch Special1 1 I Small 1 Topping I ND store I 2 Cans of Coca-Cola product I Saint Mary's/ I $5 99 I •L ______ ..:,. ______ .J North Village Mall271-1177 271-PAPA  

I I 

Tuesday, November 16, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
NFL 
Dallas moves into first place tie vvith unlikely heros 
have long defined the Dallas 

Associated Press 
Cnwboys. Yol it was a pack of' blue-col-ll!VINC., Texas 
1a r players, many of them

Clitz, imago and supnrstars 
backups, who pulled the team into a first-place tie in the NFC East. 
Some of the game balls from Sunday's 27-13 victory over Green Bay went to Jason 

Social Concerns Seminar: Theo 366 
tl-11
C[NTER FOR

Spring 2000 SOCIAL CONCERNS 

•>  A two-week service-learning opportunity in Mexico: May 17 ­3t, 2000  
.  Students earn one credit (Fall 2000)  
•>  In Mexico, students experience and reflect upon-·the econo~c~ political, and social realities ofLatin America  
•>  Students chosen to participate in the Mexico Seminar meet weekly during the Spring Semester to plan, organize and fundraise for the trip  
->  Knowledge ofSpanish is helpful. but not required  
->  Open to Notre Dame and St. Mary's juniors, sophomores, and freshmen  
->  The Seminar fee is $500 ($100 deposit with remainder due in April)  
INFORMATIONAL MEETING Monday, November 15, 1999 4:30 p.m. Center for Social Concerns  
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE AT THE CSC  
APPLICATIONS DUE NOVEMBER 22 (preferred) or November 30 (last day) With $100 Deposit Deposit returned if application is not accepted  
For more information contact Ben Peters, 631-5370 or 631-5293 Joe Lake, 634-4917 Marina Ziolkowski, 634-2532  


SUB'S Sophomore Literary Festival presents-

Garrett, Robert Chancey and Jason Tucker. 
You may not have heard of them, but you're probably familiar with the guys they . replaced: Troy Aikman, Emmitt Smith and Michael Irvin. 
Add in big plays by Flozell Adams and George Teague and take out All-Pros Deion Sanders and Larry Allen, both injured during the game, and it's understandable why coach Chan Gailey and owner Jerry Jones were more excited than usual about this victory, 
"We've got a bunch or fight­ers," Gailey said Monday. "That can carry you a long 
way."  ·  
Dallas (5-4)  may have  to  
keep lighting.  

Allen, widely hailed as one of the NFL's best blockers, has a sprained right knee and will be out several weeks. 
Aikman is expected to miss at least Sunday's game at Arizona as he recovers from concussions in consecutive weeks. Irvin appears less and less likely to ever return from a spinal cord injury. 
Sanders was in and out most of the game with groin and hamstring problems, but he's expected to play against the Cardinals. Smith could play, too, if he can find a way to safely pad his broken right hand. 
But even when those former Pro Bowl selections were healthy, the Cowboys were struggling..They had lost four of five and fell to third in the NFC East. 
There was much speculation that a loss to the Packers ­combined with the mental blow of being without Aikman, Smith and Irvin for the first time in a decade -would doom the rest of Dallas' sea­son. 
Fired up by the first-ever pregame pep talk from owner Jones, Garrett led the Cowboys to a touchdown on their first possession. They went into halftime up 10-3, 
Chancey, a running back who had be1)11 inactive sine() being signed Oct. 5, became the featured runner after starter Chris Warren lost his second fumbln early in the third quarter, 
Ilo ran 14 times for 57 yards, both morn than hn ever had with San Diego or Chicago. 
"It's the chance of a lifotim0. because I'm a guy who's novnr been to college," said 
Chancey, who instead played minor league baseball. "Each year, I'm just trying to gnt in the game more and more so people can know that I can play. I just thank God l got another chance." 
Tucker caught one pass for 11 yards, but his biggest con­tri bu ti on was replacing Sanders on punt returns. The former NFL Europe player had a 41-yard punt return and he took two kickom, J9 yards. 
Adams, an offensive line­man, earned his gold star by stretching his 6-foot-7 frame to block a 44-yard field goal try by Ryan Longwell as the third quarter ended, preserv­ing a 17-3 lead. 
Then Teague wrapped it up by short-circuiting a potential game-tying drive with an interception that he returned 95 yards for a touchdown, ensuring that Dallas -which has blown leads of 17, 14 and 10 points -wouldn't make the same mistake a fourth time. 
With Washington and the New York Giants losing Sunday, Dallas moved into a three-way tie atop the division. The Cowboys, who have beat­en the Redskins twice and lost to the Giants, play New York in the season finale. 
"We play this game on sheer he.art, sheer guts, sheer emo­tion," Smith said. "And let me tell you, when you can play like this and pull out a victory like this, there ain't no tnlling what you can do the rest of' the season." 
~ 

Announcing the 5th Annual Keough Summer Internships In Ireland 

All Notre Dame JUNIORS with a demonstrated interest in Irish Studies/Ireland are encouraged to apply. 
Applications available in the Keough Institute for Irish Studies 1146 Flanner Hall 
Applications due by Friday, 17 December 1999 
Don't forget to recycle me. 
.... 
• 
I' 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, November 16, 1999 
CROSS COUNTRY 
Irish -women receive at-large bid to NCAA Champs 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Assi>tanc Spores Editor 
The Irish women's cross coun­try team received the best sur­prise possible yesterday -an at­large bid to the NCAA Championships on Nov. 22. 
The lrbh finished fourth in the district meet Saturday. The top two teams from each of nine dis­tricts across the nation receive automatic bids, and the Irish were one of 13 teams to receive an at-large bid. 
"We had beaten three teams that were automatic qualifiers ­Florida, Brown and Missouri, and then a bunrh of teams that were at-large considerations," women's head coach Tim Connelly said. "Once Michigan got in, we were the next team in." 
Following Saturday's race, the team was not optimistic about its chances for a berth at nationals. Notre Dame's chances of run­ning at nationals hinged upon third-place finisher Michigan, a team which had not run well during much of the season, receiving a spot. 
"It's a very unexpected ending, but a great ending," said senior Patty Rice. "Last year we were in the same position. We were fourth at the district meet hoping for an at-large bid and it didn't happen. We didn't want to be on that emotional roller coaster again. It's just nice to know that hard work does pay off." 
This is only the second time a 

Notre Dame women's cross 
country team has qualified for the NCAA meet, the first since 1993. 
"We're thrilled," head Notre Dame cross country and track coach Joe Piane sail "The ladies have worked very, very hard 
·since day one. They've had some difficult things to overcome this season. They're making a step up towards national respectabili­ty." 
Even more impressively, the team made nationals this year despite a number of roadblocks which stood in Hs way. Freshman Jennifer Handley ran at districts although recovering from a sore back. senior captain Erin Luby raced despite being sick, and Rice ran after twisting her ankle in the warm-up. The Irish also competed without senior All-Arrrnrican JoAnna Deeter, who is no longer running for the team. 
"This is going to be a great experience," Connelly said. "A lot of these kids have been aiming for this for four years. All the things that had to happen hap­pened. The thing that we've got to do is run a lot more consis­tently and intelligently than we did the other day." 
The Irish used a senior-dorni­
nated lineup in qualifying for 
nationals, with Allison Klemmer, 
Nicole LaSelle, Luby and Rice all 
in their final season. 
Senior Allison Klemmer had 
already received an automatic 
bid to race at nationals as an 
individual. She placed sixth at 
districts, and is aiming to be an 
All-American. 

... 
JOHN DAILY/The Observer 

Allison Klemmer races at the Notre Dame Invitational earlier this season. Klemmer finished sixth at Districts. 
"We've been hoping to qualify LaSelle, Luby and Rice in the every year, and fourth time's a race will be juniors Chrissy charm for us seniors. I guess," Kuenster and Erin Olson. Klemmer said. The NCAA Championships will 
Joining Klemmer, Handley, be held Monday in Bloomington, Ind. The No. 8 Irish men's cross country team received an auto­matic bid to race at nationals after finishing second in the dis­trict meet. 
'Bring your culture to the corporation" 
)\Ian_ goberto J06 
-Nation's leading speaker on cultural diversity and change management. -Conducted national educational and motivational workshops. -Come hear his secrets of success not found in any business class or business literature!! 

TODAY, November 16, LaFortune Ballroom@ 7:00 p.m. Co-sponsored by: CoBA Diversity Program and OMSA 
ATTENTION STUDENTS: 
WHY SELL YOUR USED TEXTBOOKS BACK TO THE BOOKSTORE FOR LESS WHEN YOU CAN SELL THEM DIRECTLY TO ANOTHER STUDENT? CAMPUSMONSTER.COM ALLOWS STUDENTS TO SELL THEIR USED TEXTBOOKS TO OTHER STUDENTS. YOU WILL MAKE MORE MONEY AND YOUR FELLOW STUDENTS WILL SAVE MORE! IT'S THAT SIMPLE. 
LOG ON NOW AND LIST YOUR FALL SEMESTER TEXTBOOKS AND GET ENTERED FOR THE CHANCE TO WIN YOUR NEXT SEMESTERS BOOKS FOR FREE!!!! THAT'S RIGHT WE WILL HOLD A DRAWING ON DECEM­BER 30, 1999 TO FIND THE WINNER OF OUR" SEMESTER FOR FREE" CONTEST. YOO'W'rLL RECEIVE 1 ENTRY FOR EVERY BOOK YOU LIST. THE MORE BOOKS YOU LIST THE BETTER YOUR CHANCES OF WIN­NING. 
WHEN YOU'RE THERE, GET THE LATEST SCOOP ON WHAT'S HAPPEN­ING AT YOUR COLLEGE OR AT CAMPUSES AROUND THE COUNTRY. THERE'S ALSO A SECTION WITH UP TO DATE SCORES AND COLLEGE NEWS. 
FROM TEXTBOOK SWAPPING, COLLEGE APPAREL AND GAME TICKETS TO THE LATEST CAMPUS NEWS, IT'S ALL JUST A CLICK AWAY AT CAM­PUSMONSTER.COM 


PUSfflODSTDA.CDm 
"If we don't have it, you can't get it!" 

• 
University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
UI:be 1F!otre 11Ban1e QI:borale & QCbamber ®rtbestra 
Alexander Blachly, Director 


. Byrd Wert Gibbons Schiltz Handel 
8:00p.m. Wednesda)INovember 17 Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Free & open to the public. www.nd.edu/ ~music for more info 
' \. 

Tuesday, November 16, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
---------===-­
Women 
continued from page 24 
hnforP i11r.rnasing tlw !(~ad to 40-24 at the half'. 
Two quif•k stnals and baskets by senior guards Ni1\IP lvt'Y and Dani11lln Greon in Lho fin,l 1'1\W minutns ol' tho sncond half propnlled lh1• lrish to a 20-point lP;id imrly on. 
lvPy LalliPd 15 points and !'our steals on the g1111w, prnving Lhal hnr prnscncn on lhe courl is k1•y for Irish sncn•ss. 
"Wn'n• i~ young lc,uu, csp1icially when Ninl11's 1101 on tlrn court," said Mcl;rnw. "Tht'J'<' arP still a lot of things we m•nd to work 1111." 
HIS Malhas and tlw Irish tradnd hasknts for 111urh of tile n1st of tlrn sncond half as the Irish hdd Uw louring leam f'rom Sweden off l'or tl11• rPmaindl'I" of 1h11 game. 
"II was a good ganw for u:,," said McGraw. "W1• had a 1·lrn11c1• lo learn some things." 
Th" ganw ngainsl FOS Mall,as was the last (•xhihilion ganw for tlll' Irish bcf'ore they op1•11 up tlrn regular snason at Toledo on Saturday. 
l.ooki11g ahoad to Saturday's match-up, MrCraw is anticipating a good opening gamn. 
"It should be a gn\al match-up," said Mr(;raw. "Thcv bnat tlw Ohio All-Stars bad -and ll!PrP's a tc•am that WC played too. Th,•y w1·n· hPating us at one point. but lol(•do l\l'Vl!r trui!Pd tlwm. s11 it should Im good." . 
Tlw Irish an• looking l'or sophomorn for­ward l•:ril'ka llarwy to play a higgcr rolP on tlw squarl in llw upcoming snason. 
"W11 th ink silt' can be dominant," said Mr<;raw. "ShP has gn•at work ethic -she wants lo play lwt.tnr. Sht\ has great versatility and is going to lw our dcf'cnsivc stopper. We likP to havt! lwr on tlit• lloor -she docs so many things at both 1mds o/' Urn court." 
ll,1111•y is also looking forward to tho possi­hility ol' making a biggPr impact this season. 
"I 1hi11k I ran rnntributP a lot to the team." said lla1wy. "lhPl'I' an• a lot ol' good players lhat will h11p1·f'ully stPp up this sPuson. I need to work on a lot of things -!{Ptting comfort­ahll' al tlH' lhrPt' spot and ,·omin!{ in at tlrn four spot -hut I 1hink I can contribute." 
Coming u!T thP lwnch. Ilarwy knocked in 10 points for t.111' Irish. 
With two Pxhihilion outings behind them to v.ork out lllf' kinks, tlw Irish am snl to start t!w n•gular season and improve on their cur­rc\nt prc-si•ason eighth-plac11 ranking, begin­ning with Tol!•do. 


Wednesday, November 17 from 2:30 to 3 30 at the Hesburgh Center for International Studies Auditorium 
Bill Shore, Author of The Cathedral Within will be signing his book on 


CROSS COUNTRY 
Belles place 28th at Regional Champs 
the season with her second best By MOLLY McVOY time. Assistant Sports Editor "Melissa Goss has been injury-ridden all season, and The last race has been run. she finally came out and ran The Belles cross-country her second best time," Barstis team finished its season at the said. 'That was great." Regional Championships at Amy Mizzone from Calvin Ohio Northern University on won the race individually, fin­Saturday. Saint Mary's finished ishing with a time of 17:42. 28th of 35 teams represented The next finishers were from Ohio, Michigan and Jennifer Ernst of Hope College Indiana. and Laura Sholts of Kenyon "It was a kind of up and down College. meet," head coach Dave Barstis Saint Mary's is ready for next said. "Some runners did well, season and pleased with the ·some did as expected, some teamwork they developed over didn't have such a good race." the course of this season. Calvin College, who won the "Overall, I'm pleased," MIM championships, won the Barstis said. "It was a good meet Saturday. Baldwin year." Wallace College came in sec­Goss agrees and saw ond, and D,rnison University improvement during the year. finished third. "Each meet, I think everyone Melissa Goss finished first for improved," she said. "It didn't Saint Mary's, coming in 166th show in the last meet. hut with a time of 21 minutes, 7 everyone had a really good atti­seconds. Goss was followed by tude about il." Melissa Miller, with a 21:13 and The Belles will hn losing 
•
Krista Ilildebrand, with a time seniors Miller and Bridget of 21:52. llefTcrnan next year. 
"I think we worked well as a Junior Genevieve Yavcllo team," Goss said. "I mean, we explained that it will be a big didn't have our best race. but loss. but one she hopes they everyone worked well togeth­can fill. er." "Hopefully, we will have peo­
Goss has been troubled with ple who will step up," she said. injury all season and Barstis "It's going to be hard because was pleased that she finished they are all leaders." 

. ; ' 
t •. 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, November 16, 1999 


,r's AW1LO WEEK WIIH SUB! 
J\JSf rorc> SfAfc>f[fc>S... 


Tonight 
SLF Coffeehouse 
8pm-10pm Lafortune 
. , 
Wednesday 

Cowboy Mouth concert 
" 
8pm at Stepan Center $10 for students $12 general admission 
tickets at LaFortune Info Desk 
• 

Also visit www.nd.edu/~sub 
Men 
continued from page 24 
from a defensive and leadership standpoint," Doherty said. "I madA Troy a captain this year and I expect him to lead and take care of other people." 
Small forward David Graves was second on the team in scoring last sea­son averaging 12.3 points per game. Center Harold Swanagan emerged late in the season as a force, scoring in double figures in eight games. 
Freshman Matt Carroll will makA his first career start at shooting guard. Carroll played a key role in Notre Dame's 84-79 exhibition over the International Select All­Stars. He had 20 points on 7-of-10 shooting. Freshman forward Jere Macura added 13 points and eight boards while junior guard Martin Ingelsby chipped in with 10. 
The Irish dropped their second exhibition contest to Marathon, 105-81. 
Murphy had 28 points and 15 rebounds but it was not enough to over­come the 39 points and 13 assists turned in by Marathon's Darnell Hoskins. 
Doherty was not pleased with his team's defensive effort. 
"I was very disappoint­ed and embarrassed with our defense," Doherty said. "] want to apologize to everyone that was at that game. That's not what we want to put on the floor and we hope everyono will give us another chance." 
Ohio StatA was 2-0 in preseason play with wins over One World All-Stars and Marathon. 
Senior George Reese led the Buckeyes during the exhibition season with 32 points (16.0 ppg) aftnr a 21-point effort against Marathon. Penn averaged 
15.5 points and 3.5 assists. Redd and sopho­more Boban Savovic Ind the team with 4.0 assists per game. 
The Buckeyes went 14-1 in their inaugural season at Value City Arena. Tonight's game is a sell­out and will be televised on ESPN2. 
"It's exciting for our 
·players, but none those 19,000 people will be on the court blocking a shot or taking a shot," Doherty said. "The court is the same length as it is in the Joyce Center, so hopefully the noise will help us. It's exciting to have a chance to take the crowd out of the game." 
Notre Dame posted a 14-16 record last season and a 8-10 mark in Big East play, while Ohio State finished 27-6. 
The Buckeyes lead the all-time series 6-4, but the two teams have not met since the 1973-74 season. 
The winner of tonight's game will play the winner of the Davidson-at-Siena game. 


Tuesday, November 16, 1999 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
TOM KEELEY 

A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD JEFF BEAM
FOURTH AND INCHES 
\Ji\-lOE\JEe:'.!> \0(::/>i IT \,J~!:, To Pvr VIC..TORII\ ~1:lREr OIRl:CTLY f'.C..Ro~s. FRoM THE AG:!V~R.ltJ~ HM. Ml/ urMoST Rr~PE"LI AlvD ~OMIRAT1otv 
BILL AMEND

Fox TROT 
C 1999 8111 Am11nd/0Ist by Unlve1sal Prnss Syndlcale 
If !T'S Too !loTRESSfUL FoR

J>.NDY, YOUR Mon-tEll'S 
"R>V COULD HAVE
You To HAVE HER HERE,

oNLY c.oM1NG FoR 'THANICS· 
TR1EO To 
beam.1@nd.edu 



EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 28 Western timber 63 Peru's capital 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS have trouble handling the confusion 
1 Special home tree 64 Singer Vikki 
DAY: Burgess Meredith, Zina Garri­around you at home. Your temper
installations 32 See 16-Across 65 The Little 
son Jackson, Lisa Bonet, Martha will exllode if you don't have a 5 After dusk 35 Actress Taylor Mermaid Plimpton, George Kaufman physica outlet for your anger. Dif­9 Boot out of 'The Nanny" 66 _plaisir Happy Birthday: Be prepared to ficulties with money will prevail. 
stand your ground. If someone tries 000
14 Aquarium 38 German "a" 67 Sandwich 
to block what you're trying to LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You'll 
cookie

15 Black 39 Broadway show accomplish, you will have to do find yourself attached to the phone. 16 With 32-Across, about a 68 Fine's partner whatever is nece!iSal'}' to take control. Communications will take up most Follow your own dreams and don't of your time. Be careful: You are like­
Best Picture "chewsy" 69 Teller's stack 
feel obligated to be the driving force ly to be misinterpreted if you are the
nominee of cowgirl? 
70 5-Down loaves 

to help someone else get ahead. It's least bit evasive when discussing
1979 43 Bowl over 
time to put yourself first. Your mun­others. 00000 17 Young Ron 44 Aroma DOWN bers: 5, 13, 21, 34, 41, 46 SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21):Howard role ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your Don't be coerced into contributing to 
45 Look in (on)

18 Strauss & 1 Vermont ski quick wit will win you points. Voice something you think is a waste of
46 "Nonsense!" resort

Co. your opinion, but refrain from being time. Learn to say no, or you'll find 49 Mix up 2 Mill output pushy or you'll have opposition. yourself paying for a medley of
19 Negative sort of 
Physical activity will be most re­unnecessary things. 00 
person 51 1996 Leonardo 3 Licoricelike 
warding. You should consider taking SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec.
DiCaprio role flavor

20 Broadway show a vacation. 0000 21): Don't lend money to a friend. about a gang 54 Social class 4 Drawing TAURUS (April 20-May 20): The You will lose the cash and the war at Macy's? 5 Supermarket legal matters or personal papers you connection when he or she can't pay
58 Broadway show 

want to tie up by the end of the year you back. Offer suggestions as to
23 Standing about an old section 
will cause frustration. Be satisfied how your friend can earn the money24 Puppeteer Chinese gent? 6 Under the that you started the ball rolling early instead. 0000 
Lewis 61 "The Wreck of covers enough to follow through with your CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 25 Angel's topper the Mary_" 7 Gads about plans.CO Don't get involved in secret affairs GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Take just because you are feeling neglect­
8 Jewish turnover 

a short pleasure trif or attend clubs ed in your personal life. You need to ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 9 "One more or events that wil help you meet clear up the relationship you're in time!" new friends or lovers. You may need before you start another one. 000 S POT to re-evaluate your motives. You've AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18):
10 One who 

ALOE been going in the same direction for Don't let emotional upset force you
"borrows" a car 

Beethoven's the Continent too long now. 00000 into the poorhouse. You may want to
M I K 11 Marine eagle 33 Voling "no" 
Sonata No. 26 CANCER (June 21-July 22): Get spend in order to lifl your spi,;its,
58 Central

34 Plenty, · informally 53 Martini staple 59 "You said it!" after work. You not only will height­will only contribute to your worry. 
12 Roman 901 together with colleagues socially but, unfortunately, being extravagant 
13 Tic-_-toe 

36 Yadda-yadda­55 Ala King 60 PC alternatives en friendships, but will gain support 00021 Gaze from those who may be able to fur­PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You
yadda ... 61 Pop

56 DEF, on a 37 Peepers phone 62 Pitcher's stat. LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You'll be romantic life has been going no­
22 Street material ther your interests. 000 may feel emotionally upset if your 
26 Journey part 

40 Like some night in the mood to do things with where. Take time to reassess yourself27 Teller's stack vision friends. Organize a competitive and and prepare to make the necessary 29 Pudding Answers to any three clues in this puzzle challenging indoor sports event. Be changes. You need to check out new
41 Can. province

ingredients are available by touch-tone phone: sure not to leave anyone out. 000 philosophies. 000 42 New York city 
1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You'll30 to one's 47 Godforsaken
ears ~subscriptions are available for the 

Birthday Baby. You were born with a vision, and you'll do whatever you
48 Comic Philips 

31 Big name in fine best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 can to reach your goals. Others may find it difficult to understand your relent­wines 50 Resentment years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. less drive, but for you tasks will become effortless. Rewards will be yours. (Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at utroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) C1999 Univer,al Press Syndicate 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
R~3/er~ .footba\\ lhampionf)hip Wnda~ 
• 
~ November 2-1, 1111 () 
Women's IH Men's IH 

• Cham · · -11 :00 Championship -12:30 
Wel~h family ~orin v~.
v~. Pa~querilla ta~t Knott 







Lapping the field 
Junior Kristen Van Saun 
took home two victories for the Irish. while helping 
Notre Dame to a J·o record
PORTS 

this weekend. 
page 18 
O
THE 

page 24 BSERVER Tuesday, November 16, 1999 
VOLLEYBALL 
Irish claim Big East title with dramatic victory 
the Irish. She finished with a By MATT OLIVA match-high 18 kills on .469 hit­Spurts \Vriter ting and added 10 blocks. 
Outside hitters Christi Girton 

The Irish came back from and Marcie Bomhack also con­two games down to tributed to the Irish offense. Georgetown to claim the Big Girton had 16 kills and East regular season title on Bomhack had 11 as the Irish 
Sunday. finished with 54 kills for the
• 
With a perfect 11-0 confer­match. ence record, Emily Shiebout led the Irish Notre Dame on defense with 13 digs and
Volleyball

claims the junior captain Denise Boylan title for the Results finished with 4 7 assists. four th time Notre Dame 3 "Georgetown played great and took us out of our rhythm
in the last Georgetown2
five years. early," head coach Debbie Rrown said. "I think we
The win NotreDame3 
gives the regained some of our compo­Irish 08_6} Villanova 0 sure in game two and played the top seed strong in games three and at the Big East tournament this four. Game five just was a bat­weekend. where they will face tle all the way." the winner of Saturday's The loss drops Georgetown's Rutgers-Connecticut match. record to 25-4 overall and 9-2 
The Hoyas took a command­in the Big East. ing lead, winning the first Outside hitter Kiran Gill, who game 15-1 and the second had 15 kills and seven aces, game 15-11. and Lauren Warner, who con­
The Irish came back to win tributed 10 kills, 11 digs and the next two games, 15-7 and five aces both led the Hovas in 1.5-6. hitting .381 and .500 the match. · respectively to tie the match at Before the Irish had a chance two games apiece. to defeat Georgetown for the 
In the fifth game, conference title, they had to Georgetown had a 14-13 lead defeat Villanova on Saturday. but failed to put the Irish away. Notre Dame left no doubt that hitting percentage. The Irish As a team, the Irish finished her Big East leading block total The Irish were able to tie the Sunday's matchup would be were never behind in the first with 60 kills and outdug the with seven blocks. match at 14, and then take a for the title by easily knocking two games, winning by the Wildcats by a 46-24 margin. "All of us were really aiming 15-14 lead. After Georgetown off the Wildcats in three scores of 15-4 and 15-6. After Sophomore Marcie Bomhack for the Big East title, especially tied the game once more, games. falling behind 2-0 in the third tallied 14 kills in 21 attempts, since we lost it last year," Notre Dame scored two unan­Girton led the Irish with a game the Irish pull away with hitting .619 on the day. Junior Brown said. "The team has swered points for the 17-15 double-double, 16 kills and 11 a 15-6 win. The loss dropped setter Denise Boylan dished shown tremendous character game and 3-2 match victory. digs, as the Irish finished the the Wildcats conference record out 35 assists for the Irish and in getting where we are 
Mary Leffers led the way for match with a season high .510 to 0-10. senior Mary Leffers added to today." 

WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Ratay leads women to victory 
center Ruth Riley, who sus­is very much in control on the

By KERRY SMITH 
tained an injury to her right court. We plan on getting the 

Assistant Sports Editor 
ankle in practice, the Irish ball to her a lot this season." still managed to dominate on The freshman guard already

E0S Malbas may have put the floor. shows hints of the playingthe first points on the board, "It was a good opportunity style of past Irish player and byt Notre Dame had the last for us to play without Ruth," three-point record holder laugh Monday night as the said head coach Muffet Sheila McMillen, as she Irish won McGraw. "It was a real posi­knocked in five shots from their sec­
tive for us -we were able to behind the three point line;.,., 
o n d get some different looks." Steady pressure from the straight The Preseason All-Big East Irish defense forced E0S exhibition First Team selection's playing Malbas into several turnovers. game 76-status is "probable for The Irish capitalized on 
51. Saturday," according numerous opportunities, scor­
E O S 

McGraw. ing 26 points on possessionsMalbas Ratay showed she was at after turnovers. started off home on the court ln only her "We're doing a little more strong with Ratay second collegiate contest, with the full court press," said a quick leading the Irish with 25 McGraw. "It's better at times steal and lay-up in the open­points and putting in a perfect -not there yet, but getting
• ing seconds of the game. but eight-for-eight performance there." Irish guard Alicia Ratay came 
from the foul line. The Irish took control of the 
riglit back down the court and "Alicia already has made a game early on, going on a 12· knocked in a three-pointer as big impact," said McGraw. 0 run to lead E0S Malbas 12­the Irish took the lead and "She's doing what we would 2 in the opening minutes 
never looked back. expect from an upperclass­Playing without the aid of man. She has great poise and see WOMEN/page 22 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish take on Buckeyes in Preseason NIT 
best back court in the countryBy BRIAN KESSLER 
in junior Michael Hedd and Spores Editor 
senior Scoonie Penn. Penn 
was named to the Associated 
The Matt Doherty era offi­Press Preseason First Team cially begins tonight when All-America team. Notre Dame and Ohio State "Penn and Redd are proba­square off in the first round of bly the best guard combina­the preseason NIT in tion in the nation," Doherty Columbus, Ohio. said. "But their whole team is 
The Buckeves are ranked athletic. They get the ball up No. 4 in the country and are the court quickly and coach fresh off last year's Final Four Jim O'Brien has them playing appearance. well together." 
"Right now, I wih we were The Irish are led by their opening against a Division II sensational sophomore class school," first-year head coach in the frontcourt. Troy 
Matt Doherty said jokingly. Murphy, last season's Big East "But it's exciting to play team rookie of the year, averaged of their caliber on ESPN with 19.2 points per game and 9.9 all hype. I think we'll be up for rebounds per contest. 
the challenge and compete "Troy's doing very well, but and after that let the chips fall I expect a lot more out of him where they may." 
Ohio State has arguably the 
see MENS/page 21 
• 
at Toledo . NCAA Third Round vs. Boston College Saturday, 6 p.m. vs. Stanford Saturday, 2:30 p.m. 
tti..

SPORTS • ·•
Friday, 7:30 p.m. 

ATA • •
at Ohio Stare Volleyball Women's Swimming Today, 8:30 p.m. Big Eai;r Tomament Semifinals at Minnesota Invitational 
Saturday, 12 p.m. Friday-Sunday
GLANCE 



