
-• --&Qi q 
Log on to lyrics 
Campus break-ins 
lWFI went offthe air last year and onto the 
Notre Dame Secutiry/Police and rectors offer 

Tuesday
WelJ. Scene details the process.from radio 
ad1Jice to students in wake ofrecent residence 
waves to mouse clicks. 
hall thefts. 
OCTOBERS, 
Scene . pages 14-15 
News . page 3 
1999 

VOL XXXIII NO. 29 
Union works on report to Trustees 
By ALISON HEINZ New, Wri1e1 
In ils fall 1991) rnporl. lhc Sludcnt Union poses SHVflral questions to t.lw Board of' Trusti•ns. 
Whal Lill' Union n~ally v.mnts to know is "i\rn WP truly l'oslering our Catholic ( :haractcw'?" 
"With tlrn approach of tho 21st century and tlrn upcoming Jubilee, WP figun•d it was Limn to rlosely analyz1i Nolrf' Danw's Catholic diaract<•r," said junior Brian Smith, llw coordinator of' tlw rnport. "Aftnr all, WP hop«' it is our Catholic char­actPr Lhat distinguishes us f'rom MIT, llarvarcl. Yale and other schools." 
The rnporl rommitltHi bngan its n•snarrh last April and worked throughout tlrn sumnwr conducting inlcrvilnvs and surveys among Not r c\ ll a m P • s a nldP m ic wo r I d , Campus Ministry and Congrngation of thP Iloly Cross. 
In aclditinn, surveys were con­ductnd am1mg stuchmls to gain their pPrspcctivP on the University's Catholit'. rharactPr. 
"Notrn Dame has done a good job of fostnring Catholic character," Smith said. "But tlrnre's always arnas to Im improved." 
Tht! c11rnmitte1i's report analyzes nearly every aspti<·.t of' lifo at !'Jotre llanw induding the hiring of pro­fossors, llw duties of resident advi­sors, classroom ar.tivities. service and counsrling. 
Two areas till! Student Union adclrnss,is in its rnporl include the marriage preparation and enrich­mnnl program and llrn adequacy of programs and support groups for 
see REPORT/page 4 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


In the shadow of th.e stadium 
The Snite Museum, which offers numerous resources to students and professors, is a hidden jewel on campus 
By ERIN LaRUFFA 
News Wrirer 
It is not easv to sit in the shadows of the Notre Dam'e Stadium. 
But that is exactly where the Snite Museum is. right across the street from a place renowned for its dch history and tradition. Its hidden location may be why many students are not aware of all that the Snitc has to offer. 
"We have this treasure, this jewel," said Gina Costa, the museum's market­ing an~ ,public aff'ai~.s specialist. "Be awa1•e, 1t son campus. 
The Snite. like any typical art museum, has both a permanent collection and rotating exhibitions. The current exhibi­tion features the Taos Artists of the American Southwest. An upcoming exhibit will display photographs of vic­tims of the Khmer Houge regime in Cambodia. 
The permanent collection includes· works by Rembrandt, among others. According to Loving, the museum's strengths arc in pre-Columbian art, 15th through 19th century drawings, 19th century photography. and 19th century paintings. 
Despite the many strengths of the museum's collection, some people would like to see the Snitc improve. 
"It has amazing strengths in some areas, but hopefully it will continue to evolve," said Charles Hosonburg, a Notre Dame art professor. 
"Them certainly are university muse­ums that have better collections in 20th century art," said Robert Haywood. pro­fossor of 20th century art and art histo­ry. "But that [period] has not been their focus .... Every museum has its strcngths." 
Loving said that the museum is devel­
see SNITE/page 4 


By TIM LOGAN News Editor  Th11 activist encouraged stu­dents to stay vocal on the issue and continue to push for reform  but questioned the long-term feasibility of University-spon­sored inspections.  
in labor standards.  "I would think that in tho long  
For 20 years, Michael Posner  "There is so much to be done  term it is not. the business of a  
has battled for human rights  h11re and it's not going to happen  university to be monitoring fac­ 
around the world. He brought that fight to Notre  unless people raise their voices and keep fighting," he said.  tory conditions," he said. "I just don't think it can be sustained."  
Dame Monday to Lalk about  Student protests nationwide  lie suggested that schools con•  
enforcement of fair labor prac­ against sweatshops have pres­ tilme to look at crndible sweat­ 
tices in apparel manufacturing. "There are, daily, tens of thou­ sured many universities to take leadership roles on fair labor.  -shop monitoring coalitions and to raise issues such as living  
sands of abuses or.curring in  Notre Dame created a  Task  wages and factory disclosure.  
workplace settings around the world," said Posner, executive  Force on Anti-Sweatshop Initiatives in March and the  Posn11r stressed enforcement of existing legislation as the most  
director  of  the  Lawyers  University has also hired  an  important step governments and  
Commission on Human Rights.  independent consulting firm.  non-governmental organizations  
He detailed the attempts of  PricewaterhouseCoopers, to  (NGOs)  can  take  to  combat  
activists to fight sweatshop labor  inspect factories where Notre  human rights' abuses.  
and of the recently-created Fair  Dame licensed apparel is manu­ "We have to move beyond sim­ 
Labor i\ssociation (FLA), which SHANNON BENNETTrfne Observer  factured.  ply denouncing what's wrong,"  
brings together labor and indus­Michael Posner, executive director of the Lawyers Commission  Posner  applauded  the  
try lo address the issue.on Human Rights, described the battle against sweatshops.  University's stance on the issue  see RIGHTS/page 4  

SWEATSHOPS 

SlVeatshop activist tells students to push for reform 
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Tuesday, October 5, 1999 
INSIDE COLUMN 
What really matters 
Since high school, I've gotten about six hours of sleep a night. 
Some nights I get more, some nights I get less, but six is a pretty fair average. I'm on the go 18 hours a day. I'm on constant dead­line. I don't really know what to do with myself when I run out of things on my "to do" list -not that that's happened in a long time. 
I always thought that stopping and smelling the roses was for people with free time. I even once said, "I don't need to sleep. That's what you do once you're dead." 

But recently I was forced to take some time out and slow down: I caught mononucleosis, and I'm now in the long process of battling my way back. 
I'm not entirely sure where I got it, but it hit me pretty hard, keeping me out of a full week of classes and forcing me to spend five days as an inpatient in the infirmary. 
The week before I got sick, I had been entertaining the thought:. "If I died now.I would have so much less homework." (You know you've thought it.) In the infirmary, my classwork was going undone. I was getting unheli1wably behind and I felt awful, but it occurred to me that that wasn't important. I was thinking how lucky I was. 
What's important is that I have friends who stopped by and visited me every day, co­workers who covered my shifts and brought me Observers, classmates who copied their notes for me, professors who were extremely understanding and accommodating, a rector who came by to make sure I was all right, a mother who took a day off and drove two hours to visit me. family who called me every day and worried about me, and nurses and doctors who took wonderful care of me. Now that rm home, I have sectionmatcs who stop by every time they're going 1.o Meijer to ask if I'm out of anything, neighbors who turn down their music so I can take naps and classmates who ask how I'm feeling every day. 
I may be two weeks behind .in class. my GPA may not be the greatest in the world. my monetary situation may be less-than-stellar, and I may never understand Athanasius. 
But when it comes to what matters. I have 
an embarrassment of riches. 

I'd like to say that this was a life-changing epiphany for me, but I know that just as soon as I'm able I'll be back on my 18-hour days, pushing too hard and taking tpo little time out. We all like to complain about our lives, and we often have good reason. We push our­selves to our mental and physical limits. We don't get enough sleep, we don't eat right, and we don't take enough time for ourselves. 
But I had a moment to reflect on my life and the wonderful people in it, and I like what I see. 
Take a moment. breathe and reflect on 
your life; I'm sure you'll feel the same. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Laura Petelle 
Assistant Managing Editor 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Erica Thesing Emmett Malloy 
Laura Rompf Jennifer Zatorski Courtney Boyle Graphics 
Sports Mandi Powell Mike Connolly Production 
Viewpoint Rachael Protzman Lila Haughey Lab Tech 
Mary Leffers 
The Observer (USPS 59? 2-4000) i, published Monday through Friday cxccpr during exam and vacnion periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All rcproducrion righrs arc r<scrvcd. 
QUOTES OF THE WEEK 
''Little did I know then "We need to rediscover that this darkness the non-violent that surrounded me characteristic of would surround me Christianity. " for six years. " 
Frank Cordaro Zev Kedem activist for peace Holocaust survivor 
''It's about every stage oflife and the fact that there are so many ways to support every stage on a daily basis. " 
John Linn co-president, ND/SMC Right to Life 
"ft is an unintended blessing, perhaps, that women were not ordained." 
Sister Regina Coll professional specialist, theology 
Compiled from U-Wire reports

OUTSIDE THE DOME 
College students protest during talk show taping 
NEW YORK 
Fifteen Columbia students braved cold winds and rain early Thursday morning to protest sweatshop labor in Central America at a tap­ing of Live with Regis and Kathie Lee. 
The students held signs and marched in a circle outside the waiting area at the hour-long protest outside WABC-TV studios in midtown Manhattan. A window separated the protesters from audience members who took notice of the picketing. Several students from New York University also par­ticipated in the protest, which was organized by Columbia Students Agai,nst Sweatshops (CSAS). 
Kathie Lee Gifford, the target of the protest, was singled out because her Wal-Mart clothing line was publicized for using sweatshop 
"When you 're ta,king on a company as large as Wal-Mart ... the only weapon you have is public demonstration." 
David Susman Columbia sophomore 
labor to manufacture its goods. 
Last week, CSAS held a panel featuring two Salvadoran workers who detailed the poor working con­ditions i.n one of the factories that produce Gifford's clothing line. 
The protestors cited an agree­ment, allegedly signed by Gifford. stating that she would open facto­ries producing her clothing line to independent inspectors and pay workers a living wage, 
Gifford has been a target of the movement due to the fact that she, unlike Michael Jordan and other celebrities whose products have been linked to sweatshop labor, responds to protests, protest par­ticipants said. 
"She makes herself an easy tar­get with how she makes Ithe sweatshop issue] out as a personal attack on her," said Daniel Hennefeld, a non-student who joined the protest. 
When asked whether the protest would make a difference. sopho­more David Susman said, "When you're taking on a company as large as Wal-Mart, pretty much the only weapon you have is public demonstration." 
"As long as we plant a seed of doubt in their minds. it's absolutely worth it," Susman added, 
Harvard/Radcliffe merger complete 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 
Radcliffe College and Harvard University officially merged al. one minute after midnight Friday morning. As most of the campus went to bed, Radcliffe College quietly became the Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study. A few Radcliffe stalwarts converged outside Fay House to mark the historic change. Beneath the small apple tree that guards Radcliffe Yard -a traditional symbol of the college -a group of Radcliffe officials gathered at 12:01 a.m. to toast the end of the 120-year­old institution's independence from Harvard and the birth of the Institute. "Radcliffe has been around for 120 years," said Keene Metzger '67, the Institute's dean of administration and finance. "She deserves that we be here to see the light go from her. At the same time, we should see the first breath go into the lungs of the Radcliffe Institute." As a stereo played music from the Harvard Glee Club, the group -which included Bunting Fellowship Program Director Rita Nakashima Brock ­raised glasses of champagne at the precise moment of transition. Metzger rang an antique schoolhouse bell that belonged to his grandfather. 


LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather"forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

~~,,¢7).&~~ ~ ~ ~ 
,,_,,,~...~ :._._:. <.;.:,f_:• ---:::•:::::::,:.. ···'-"·····"··· Showers T-storms Rain Au"ies Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Clour1y Via ~i.atedPress GraphicsNet 
Louisville students protest racial issues 
LOUlSVlLLE, Ky. 
Last Friday nearly 250 black University of I,ouisville students held what they called the first of many protests against the administration and faculty. The students. most dressed in black, gathered within the rotunda of Grawmeyer Hall outside President John Shumaker's office, Protesters said they staged the sit-in for a variety of reasons, not just as a reaction to the Aug. 25 incident in which Secret Service agents stormed into a meeting of Porter Scholars and mistakenly arrested a scholarship student. Students have demanded an apology from University police and the Secret Service over the inci­dent. The Secret Service said it has reviewed the incident and says no wrongdoing took place. Halph Fitzpatrick, assistant to the president for minority affairs, said the University did send a letter to Porter Scholars apologiz­ing for the event, but that it was mistakenly sent only to freshmen scholars. The letter was sent two days after the arrest. "We're protesting against the general disre­spect of black students at the University of Louisville," said Jamila Waddell, Junior Pan African Studies major. "We're fighting for change -we want respect." 


NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeathel® forecast for noon, Tuesday, Oct 5. 
so./!?' ............-.a...&. ....-..... 

01999 AccuWeather, Inc. cow WARM STAT/ONA.RY Pr,,..ure: 
® © . 1'.2JDQE1J~ .~lflD 
High Low Sl'lowers Rain T-•totm ¦ FlurrlH Snow Ice Sunny PL Cloudy Cloudy 
VIII A!lsoci11tsd Press;  
Atlanta  74  52  Las Vegas  72  42  Portland  64  50  
Baltimore  65  42  Lexington  64  44  Sacramento  76  53  
Bostc,n  56  44  Memphis  72  49  St. Louis  72  55  
Chicago  66  44  New Yori<  62  48  Tampa  86  70  
Grand Rapids  57  41  Philadelphia  64  44  Wash DC  66  46  

Tuesday, Ocrobcr 5, 1999 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



SMC honors athletes at Pride_Week pep rally 
By KAREN FlNK 
News Writer 
Thn Saint Mary's l'ridn Wenk 1,(•l!dnatio11 began last nigllt with a JWJJ rally in tho Nobln Family Dining llall. 
On b(dtalf' of' tlw athlntic dnpartnwnt and studnnt gov­Prnmnnt association. all fall athlntns rncPivml blun carna­tions in rncognition of thnir dnd­il'.ation. 
I.ynn Kad1111arik, Saint Mary's 11nw athlolic din•ctor, opc1rnd t.llf' 1\Vl'ning with a l'cw words to tlw studPnt lmdy, including this yr-ar·s motto: "Saint Mary's pri1hi is on tho riSI\." 
"Thi• 1wp rnlly is a grnat and fantastic idna. This is how we nnnd to gain and spread sup­port. It goos along with the changing Saint Mary's," slrn continuod. 
l•:-ad1 mnm ber of tho volloy­ball. swimming, soccer. golf and cross country t1•ams was intro­duced and team picturns wern taken while students cheered. 
hir snnior Michelle Samrota, captain or the swim team, Saint Mary's pride is definitely on the rise. 
"Spirit has· changed dramati­cally, ospccially in the past two years. Freshman year. we were lucky ii' a few spectators showed," she said. "Now, cama­raderie among tlrn athh~tes is strong and is filtering into 'tho studnnt body. Plus, besides stu­dent government. other clubs and halls are supporting the 
teams." · 
Snnior Hachcl Egger, co-cap• tain of tlw soccer team, agrees that spirit is incnmsing. 
"Wc'vn always b1. 1in support­ive, but now w11'ni more out­spoken, especially with our new athletic director," Egger said. "Our first home gamr, this year had tho greatest turnout ever." 
The rally concluded with stu­drmts lilling the dining hall with loud echoing cheers. 



SECURITY 
Security, rectors advise students to be careful, lock doors 
did not force entry, suggesting responded quickly to the In addition to keeping dorm are attempting to prevent By HELENA RAYAM that criminals arc finding stu­crimes, enabling campus secu­rooms locked, Rakow advocates. future break-ins by spreading News Writer dents' possessions accessible rity tu takc action. A problem using detex for entry into the the word about following stan­
due to unlocked doors. still remains -students arc not residence halls. Detex is a secu­dard safety measures. Seetch 
H1icent rnsid1mce hall brnak­"Kids are propping doors practicing preventative safety rity feature used primarily in recommends that students be ins al1•rti1d both security and open,'' said Father William measures. female residence halls and the more conscious of dishonest stucl,rnts that campus sal'ety Seetch, rector of Morrissey. Campus security and rectors newer male criminals and precautions arn br,ing neglect­"Tlrny want to make it easy on want students to see that they residence advises against !'d. themselves." . are limiting their safety by halls, such as "Theft is a crime of underestimat­
"Thell is our biggest crime In one of the Morrissey keeping doors unlocked and Keough and ing the poten­
opportunity and there 
on campus," said director of break-ins, a student was sleep­proppcd, Hspecially during thH O'Neill. tial for theft to 
are less students around 
Notre Damn Sncurity/Police !lex ing when someone opened the day when most students are By enforc­occur. Hakow. · unlockod door of the room. The classes. ing the use of in the day because of "People are Both Morrissey and Walsh student woke before the tres­"Theft is a crime of opportu­pr,rsonal very comfort­
classes." 

Ilalls havP had incidents with passer was able to steal any­nity and there are less students access num­able here and lrnspassors this semestnr. Both thing. around in the day because of bers and IDs, very trusting," cases involvNI offenders who Hakow said that poople have classes," Rakow said. detex controls Rex Rakow he said. "I· 
which people director of Security don't think our can freely students have enter the lots of street dorm. smarts. I think our women and Detox was originally put in men are some of the finest and the female dorms for extra pro­they thin_k everybody else is the tection after. the arrival of same way, and that is not
We're Giving Away 
women on campus in 1972. always the case." Security plans to eventually After the incident at Walsh, install the detex into all of the rector Sister Patricia Thomas dorms, but the process will be sent out reminders to alert stu­gradual because of the high dents of the need to keep doors




All the Answers. 
cost. locked. Plans are still being dis­Morrissey and Walsh rectors cussed to tighten security. 

1999-2000 Season 
Notre Dame Film,Television, and Theatre Presents 

Hedda Gabler 
by

Have questions about a career in financial services? Find o~t how you can grow with ABN AMRO and LaSalle Bank. 

He11rik Ibsen
... 

Getting answers to your career questions shouldn't be a struggle. So, we're giving away the answers to today's most challenging career questions: Is the financial services industry right for you? How did we get to be the 6th largest bank in the world and.the leading middle market bank in the midwest? Whal career tracks do we offer? You bring the questions. We'll supply the answers. 
Directed by Siiri Scott
Informational Presentation 
Wednesday, October 6 7:30 p.rn.
October 5, 1999, 6:00 p.m. 
Thursday, October 7 7:30 p.m. Center for Continuing Education -Room 100 
Friday, October 8 7:30 p.m. Saturday, October 9 7:30 p.m. Sunday October I 0 2:30 p.rn.
Interviews -November 9, 1999 & February 18, 2000 
Playing at Washington Hall 

Reserved seats $9 Seniors $8
LaSalle 
All Students $6
Tl IE BANK THAT WORKS· 
Memborof the ABN AMRO GRqi 
Tickets are available a! Lafortune Student Center Ticket Office. www.abnamrocareer.com 


L:~d=i•-•=
call 631-8128 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, October 5, 1999 
Snite 
continued from page I 

oping its 20th century art col­lection. 
"In terms of' collection, we're in the top six or seven in the country !among univer­sity museums]." Costa said. 
In addition to the collection, some Snite staff members also feel lhal the museum is hindered by lack of space. The museum could use more space in order to increase its education ccrnter, storage areas and display gallery, Loving said. 
"We have more in the vaults than on the walls," Costa said. "We need a new wing." 
However, there· are no immediate plans to expand the Snite, said Carol Mooney, vice prcsdient and associate provost of the University. 
The museum also has out-


Rights 
continued from page 1 
he said. "We have to do some­thing about it." 
What exactly will be done has not yet been decided, Posner said, but whatever the involved groups agree upon to combat sweatshop labor must contain a system for punishing violations. The agree­
FLA board

ment should · "You have to take some 
which
also create 

risks to set up any 
includes six 

framework accountability and to get industry rep­resentatives 
an extensive 

for monitor­something worthwhile.,, 
and six labor ing factories where viola­

representa­Michael Posner tives -for
tions may be 

occurring executive director, Lawyers being too close.ly tied
and the Commission on Human Rights 
more facto­ries investi­gated, he said, the better. 
"I think the problem's pretty pervasive and needs to be dealt with in a more systemat­ic manner." he said. 
The involvement of local organizations in the countries where sweatshop labor is prevalent -primarily in Southeast Asia, Africa and Latin America -is essential for success as well, he said. Local agencies provide per­spective and information that larger foreign or international groups such as the FLA do not have. 
"The more information that is out there, the more we know what's going on. the more local actors are involved, the more we are heading in the right direction," he said. Furthermore, the biggest problem is the lack of enforce­ment of local laws, and region­al groups can work with larger agencies, both governmental reach programs with local schools and with local com­munity organizations. There are programs for disadvan­taged children, and 10,000 local school students visit the museum annually. 

"Our outreach programs are some of the best in the country," said Costa. 
The museum is open to stu­dents and the general. public. Some professors, especially in the areas of historv and art, take their classes to the museum for curriculum­based tours. The museum also .hosts movies and lec­tures. 
"ft's the stndents' mus1mm. We are here for you," Costa said. 
The Snitc is open every day except Monday. Admission is freo and tour guides arc available. Costa encourages all students to use the muse­um. 
''Arts can uplift and enrich one's life," she said. 
and non-governmental, on 
that. 
As an FLA board member, Posner has been directly involvP-d in the negotiations for the monitoring and enforce­ment system of the largest fair labor group formed to date. He said he is fighting for a structure that includes a moni­toring system and a process by which labor abuses can and will be remedied across the board. However, some have 
criticized the 
to apparel 

manufactur­ing. 
Posner contended that it is better for anti-sweatshop activists to debate with indus­try than to leave the FLA in protest. Discussion is a better method of affecting change than simple denunciation, he said.. 
"There is a risk of being used by lcompaniesl," Posner said, alluding to the public relations boost some apparel manufacturers have gained from joining the FLA. "You have to take some risks to set up any accountability and to get something worthwhile." 
Posner's lecture "Public Disclosure of Workplace Sites" was sponsored by the University Task Force on Anti­Sweatshop Initiatives, the Program in Catholic Social Tradition, the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies and the Department of Theology. 
AUDITIONS 


ND Opera 
Thurs, Oct 7 3:30-5:30 pm Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art 
Please bring one aria or song (from memory) and music for the pianist. An accompanist will be provided. 
Roles open for Spring Semester ND Opera Production. 
(Production TBA) 
Call 1-6201 for more information. 
AUDITIONS 


Architecture gives sense of space 
• Doordan: Campus designs speak to community experiences 
By NICOLE HADDAD News Writer 
Through the concepts of space and peace, the architec­ture of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame give each campus its own distinct sense of communi­ty and place, said Dennis Doordan, an architectural his­torian and professor at Notre Dame. 
He discussed architecture's role in how people identify with past experiences. 
"[It is al rich wonderful con­cept that can be explored in many ways," he said. 
Dourdan defined experience as "doing something together" -whether it be living and din­ing together or relaxing and playing. "Experience shapes and is shaped hy"the place in which il occurs," he said. "The 

Report 
continued from page 1 
the homosexual community. 
The report states, "We feel that this is a group [the homo­sexual community! that requires love and support with­in the Notre Dame community and for this reason we would ask that Campus Ministry invite an organization called Courage to campus." 
place plays a critical role in finding identity." 
"If community is experience, then experience unfolds some­wb ere in some setting," he said. According to Doordan, experience unfolds at a critical point. Place is "a way of divid­ing space, it is not uniform but 
Elements of place include walls or boundaries, a thresh• old. pathways, nodes and images. While walls define a placo as "concrete and bound­ed," he said a threshold is th<, beginning of a place where the "journey is finished." 
It is not formal but must be 

highly differ­entiated." 
"Experience shapes and
Doordan 
defined space is shaped by the place in 
through vari­which it occurs. The place ous slidAs of 
plays a critical role in 
photographs 
he had taken, finding identity ... For example, at Monument 
Dennis Doordan
Valley space is 

architectural historian
defined by solid objects, he said. Whereas at Echo experience. 
identifiable, according to Doordan. 
Pathways are places that cultivate habits, he said, and while maps arc abstract and about cartography rather than 

Canyon, "space is something around a perimeter that defines edges." 
Egyptian and Greek architec­ture are two forms exhibiting th~i relationship between man and Jund -the relationship betwe1m the natural state and how humans transform it, he said. 
Courage was founded several years ago by Catholic priests and presents participants with teachings of the Church while, "ministering to them through group support and loving care-, bringing them into the Catholic community." 
"The largest recommendation that can be made is that addi­tional resources be continually added to Campus Ministry whenever possible," the com­mittee's report concluded. 
"This report only scratches 

~ 0 0 0 
PulliamJournalism Fellowships 
"Community is experience as diversity within unity," he said. 
Th.e concept of place nur­tures a sense of identity and supports rituals of' community, hH said. 
The Notre Dame campus is community and it is a "beauti­ful and meaningful place to take care of," Doordan said. 
the surface and one thing we did conclude was that there needs to be much more com­prehensive study of Notre Dame's Catholic character as we approach the Jubilee," Smith said. 
The Student Union will pre­sent its report to the Board of Trustees when the Board meets on campus Oct. 14. 
"We look forward to meeting with the Board and we wel­come any comments regarding our report," Smith said. 
Graduating college seniors are invited to apply for the 27th annual Pulliam 
Journalism Fellowships. We will grant 10-week summer internships to 20 
journalism or liberal arts majors in the August 1999-June 2000 graduating 
classes. 

Previous internship or part-time experience at a newspaper is desired, or other demonstration of writing and reporting ability. Those who go through the Fellowships often find new professional opportunities opening up at other newspapers during and after the program. Wmners will receive a $5,500 stipend and will work at either The Indianapolis Star or The Arizona Republic. Opportunities for online training are available, along with reporting experience at our major metropolitan daily newspapers. 
Early-admissions application postmark deadline is Nov. 15, 1999. By Dec. 15, 1999, up to five early-admissions winners will be notified. All other entries must be postmarked by March I, 2000, and will be consid­ered with remaining earJy-admissions applicants. Successful applicants will be notified on or before April 1, 2000, and will be asked to respond immediately with a letter of intent, at which time one-third of the cash grant will be mailed to the Fellow. 
To request an application packet, visit our Web site, e-mail us or write: 

Russell B. Pulliam 
Pulliam Fellowships Director 
Indianapolis Newspapers 
Web ~,tc: ,,.. ww.~1,,rn, ws.com/pjr P.O. Box 145 
E-mail: pull1am(d ,·.11111.'\\ ,.com 

Indianapolis, IN 46206-0145 
---~----------------­

WWW WWW 







orld 
Tuesday, October 5, 1999 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
HIV prevention funds established for prisons 
ATLANTA 
Sewn states will rcr·niv1\ a total of $7 mil­
lion in grnnts to help dcv(\lop ll!V prcvnntion 
programs i11 prisons. tlw Ctmters for Discas1i 
Control and Prnvenl.ion armouncl'CI Monday. 
1:,u:h slall\ will rnccivc bnlwcon $900,000 and 
$1.1 million. A study rnluasnd by tho CDC in 
August found that tlrnn~ an~ 8,900 inmatl~s 
nationwide with /\IDS and l.mtween 35,000 
and 47.000 with tlrn virus that causes it -a 
raw fivn times higher than tho national avor­
ugn. "Prisons and _jails provide a. critical 
opporlunity to provicfp lifosaving HIV prcvf'n• 
lion scrvicos to a population that might othnr­
wis.-IH' misspd," said Dr. ll1llnne Gavle, direc­
tor of tlw CDC's National CPnter for ·111v. STD. 
and TB Prevention. Thr\ CDC said inmatP-s 
typically arnri'l infocterl whiln incarcerated, 
1ml that only 10 pr.rcPnt ol' stat,, and federal 
pri!->oll syswms and only :i 1rnrce11t of city and 
county jail,; hav" IIIV prr.V(\nlion programs. 
Four prison guards allegedly set up prisoner rape 
IIANFOHD, Calif. 
Four guards at orw of tho nation's touglrnst prisons WPnt on trial prison-coll rapn to pun­ish an inrnatP. The allq{ed incident took plare at tlrn notorious Corcoran State Prison, \-\ lwrn t!ight otlHff officers am accused of set­ting up gladiator-styll1 battles among inmates !"or the guards' entertainment. They will be tried. "No onn is above the law," prosecutor Vl'rt1011 Pierson told the jury as the four guards sal nxpressionless. The guards are accus1HI of putting Eddie Dillard, a 118­pound first-time offender, in the cell of Wayne forome Robertson, a 6-foot-3, 230­pound sexual predator known as the "Booty Bandit." to punish Dillard for kicking a fomaln guard. 
Quake shakes central Peru without injuries, damage 
LIMA, Peru 
A modl'ralP t\arthquakt\ shook central Peru narly Monday, alarming rnsidents. There wore 1111 rnports of injuries or damage. The 5.5­magnitudn quakn struck at 8:57 a.m. local time, rrnar tho jungle city or Oxapampa, 155 miles northNtSt of Lima. Tremors measuring 3 to 4 wPrn felt from the sparsely populated jungln city lo Cerro De Pasco. an Andean highland city, 110 miles northeast of the capi­tal. Pnru, lm:att\d on thn seismic "Ring or Fire" strntching along the Pacif'ic rim. plans a nationwide ,•arthquakn drill un Oct. 11 to pre­pan! tho country if a larger tremor hits. 
l.ii•WEW&;w;,n

Dow AMEx: 
789.83 }ONES "3·30 Nasdaq:
-128.23 
V 
2795.97 +5'l.12 
NYSE 
600.59 
+8.1 l 
S&P 500: Composite 1304.60 
Volume:
10,401.23 
18,930,616,956
+21.79 

VOLUME LEADERS 
CQIIHIIX :i::xa:1.s :!ii Cll:11111 I Cllllill 211a: 
KA'M'&L  NAT  -2-9 ,IO  -&. 9950  11. 98  
.tln'SL COH NOVa•L AT6T D&l.l, CONPUT&lt QWl:a1'  I ..C IIOVL T 0&1,1, ow•~  t2.?S _., .2.1 ....1t7 ..-1.n +i.f..1  . 2,0625 -1. J41!5 •21. 0000 •0.7U8 . .l,tUO  77 .00 17.lf. o.75 tl.~U Jl.f!it  
NCI Ntc11oaor'l' SIPltllff PQVJrw TI\A'/EL  WCON NSFT '"" ....,,.  •l.59 .. ,.1u!i ... s.,. t-J7 .,:i  •l. l20G .2.,st• +.J. JOQQ . 15. 69~0  71.fi4 9l,5fii 60.JQ JC. 31  

COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
RUSSIA 

AFP Photo 

Russian soldiers sit on top of their armored personal carriers, while a column of Russian troops takes its posi­tion in the breakaway republic of Chechnya. Russian tanks pounded Chechen positions near the western villageof Bamut early October 3 as federal forces continued to carve out a security zone In Chechnya. 

Troops bomb Chechen villages 
•Associated Press 
DARGO 
It was lunchtime on a 
clear sunny day Sunday 
and the Russian artillery, 
positioned on the steep 
mountains to the east, was 
in action, pounding this 
village in southeastern 
Chechnya with several vol­
leys of heavy missiles. 
The rumble of the rock­
ets sounded across the val­
ley, followed bJ another 
ripple on impact, which 
sent up thick clusters of 
white smoke and, later, the 
frenzied crying of women 
U.N. allows Iraq to export more oil 
after the body of one young For weeks now, vil­man was brought in from lagers like these have the field. come under attack from 
"They Russian are bomb­plan and
"What can you feel? 
ing us missiles. because Where ever you look they The vil­we arc lage lies
are bombing, whether
Chechens," in the
there are women,
Mago med territory 
Sharipov, children or fighters." of a the local notori­doctor, 0 U S
Doctor Magomed Sharlpov
said sor­Chechen row fu It y. r e be I "What can you feel? commander.Shami! Wherever you look they Basayev, who has led are bombing, whether recent attacks in Russia, there are women, children and is known to have or fighters." sought refuge here 
falls from previous six­month periods. 
Because of low oil prices and production limits, Iraq fell more than $3 bi.Ilion short of the ceiling last year. 
U.S. officials stressed that the Dutch resolution was a technical maneu­ver that didn't constitute any lifting of the export limit or easing of sanc­tions. 
By making up for oil export shortfalls from last year, the council is merely allowing Iraqis to have the food and medi­cine they were autho­rized to get but couldn't 
before, among the steep valleys and escarpments. 
Russian officials have hinted that they intend to continue the assaults, and even send ground troops, until they can cre­ate a buffer along the border with their south­ern republic, Dagestan, to protect it from Basayev and his militants, who want to set up an inde­pendent Islamic state. 
Yet the missile strikes in Dargo and nearby Benoy, at least on Sunday, appeared to have caught only villagers and their farmhouses. 
because of low oilprices, Deputy U.S. Ambassador Nancy Soderberg said. 
''The resolution dues not alter the overall structure of the oil-for­food program, but will help redress the shortfall brought about by the lower world oil prices." she said in a statement. · 
U.N. weapons inspec­tors withdrew from Iraq in December. before the United States and 
Britain launched airstrikes to punish Baghdad for failing to divulge all information about its banned weapons programs. 

Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS 
While still deadlocked on an overall new policy for Iraq, tho Security Council on Monday authorized Baghdad to temporarily export more oil. 
The council unanimous­ly adopted a draft resolu­tion that slightly adjusts the U.N. oil-for-food pro­gram, which lets Iraq export $5.26 billion in oil over six months to buy foodand mcdiri11~ for its people suffer;ug under 
sanctions. The U.N. sanc­tions were imposed after Iraq's 1990 invasion of Kuwait. 
Iraq is expected to reach the $5.26 billion ceiling between Oct. 8 and 12 -more than a month before the six­month period expires Nov. 20. Without Security Council action, Iraq would not legally be able to keep exporting oil. 
The new resolution, introduced by the Netherlands, would allow Iraq to keep exporting oil beyond the $5.26 biUion limit through Nov. 20 to make up for export short­
------------~---­

page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, October 5, 1999 

Holocaust survivor calls for education, understanding 
''If you only examine the offi­She expressed concer.n about Holocaust to prevent it. "The older they were, theBy ERIN PIROUTEK 
cial documents of the Holocaust recent division based on reli­.. We are all the children of more they were connected to News Writer 
... It includes nothing about the gion and culture. "We are mov­God. We are all human beings. the past on an emotional level. human elements," she said. ing now in a We must take They were not faithful to the Yaffa Eliach emphasized the Eliach expressed concern direction care of each events as they were," said role of education in preventing about Holocaust education in away from the "We are all children of other," said Eliach. "You must research a recurrence of the horrors of the United States. melting pot," God. We are all human Eliach. negative elements as well N not the Holocaust during her lec­uWhen I was a student. it was said Eliach. Eliach also for hate ... in order to prevent
beings. We must take
ture Monday entitled "Crossing never mentioned in my classes "You would discussed the hate." 
the Bridge between the 20th whatsoever," said Eliach, who be surprised care ofeach other. " quality of Eliach has written extensivelyand 21st Century." Eliach, a added that she had outstanding by the hate Holocaust about the Holocaust, includingHolocaust survivor, also professors. that exists," research and the books "There Once Was a
Yaffa Eliach

focused on the need for accu­..1 am very concerned about it she said, cit­documenta­World: a 900-year Chronicle of
Holocaust survivor
rate documentation of the because many of the ideas did ing the tion. She the Shtetl of Eishyshok" and humanity -the rich and varied cross the Atlantic to the United Internet, her emphasized "Hasidic Tales of tho Jives -destroyed by the States," said Eliach. "My con­experience in the need for Holocaust." Holocaust. • · cern was since we're a country elementarv classrooms in New research to be free from any Eliach's lecture was spon­
~If it happened in the past, it of immigrants ... what will be York City and the recent shoot­outside political pressure, citing sored by the Notre Dame can happen in the future," said our relation to each other in ing at a Jewish community cen­the possible conflict between Holocaust Project and the Eliach, a professor of history time of trouble?" Eliach said ter in California. political importance and histor­Erasmus Institute. She will and literature at Brooklyn greater understanding between Eliach recently visited ical accuracy. deliver a second lecture College. ethnic groups is important. Kosovo, which she considers an Additionally. Eliach has con­Wednesday at 8 p.m. at the 
"The focus should not be on "[The Holocaust] did not hap­example of how education cerns about the prejudices of Center for Continu.inghate ... the focus should be to pen in a primitive place, it hap­failed. It did not compare to the individual researchers and pro­Education entitled "Hcstoring a document the Holocaust from a pened in the heart of a civilized Holocaust, she said, but we did fessors who have personal Vanished Past: There Once Was humanistic point of view," said society," she said. not learn the lessons from the experiences with the Holocaust. a World." Eliach. 


ISRAEL 


Palestine, Israel agree on terms of safe route 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM 
Prime Minister Ehud Barak and Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat agreed on terms for the first-ever safe route between the West Bank and Gaza Strip on Monday. 
Arafat deared the way for the agreement early Tuesday, said an Arafat 
...
aide, who 
''The purpose ofa safe 
both sides
spoke on con ­
passage is to make life were aware of
dition of the sensitivi­
anonymity. easier for Palestinians." 
ties and con­
Chief Israeli cerns."
negotiator 
Rashid Abu Shbak The final
Shlomo Ben­Ami said Palestinian security official sticking point 
B a r a k approved the plan Monday evening. 
The route will provide Arafat with one of the key underpin­nings of the state he has sought for so long, and is the most sub­stantive result of the newly revived peace process. 
Ben-Ami, who is also Public Securitv Minister. said the agreem.trnt brought a "new atmosphere" lo the talks, which were revived last month. 
"We need to look at it as rep­resentative of a new phase of negotiations." Ben-Ami told The Associated Press. 
The Gaza Strip, on the Mediterranean coast, and the landlocked West Bank are about 24 miles apart and separated by Israeli land. The "safe passage" agreement would allow Palestinians to use Israeli high­ways along a fixed route between the territories. 
The issue of opening the route has been an emotional one for both sides. 
For Palestinians, the route is an essential link between the two territories under their con­trol. 
"The purpose of safe passage is to make life easier for Palestinians," said Hashid Abu Shbak, a Palestinian security official in the Gaza Strip. 
Some Israelis, however, have protested that opening a route is an invitation to terror attacks. 
of good intentions. They predict­ed that the passage would open within two days. It was sup­posed to open last week under the latest Israeli-Palestinian peace deal. 
"Our negotiations were con­ducted in a very positive, busi­nesslike atmosphere," Saeb Erekat, ·the top Palestinian negotiator said. "Roth sides 
exerted maxi­
mum effort 
had been over 
which side would dole out permits to travel the route. 
Ultimately the two sides decid­ed that Palestinians would apply to a Palestinian office for mag­netic entry cards, and the appli­cations would then be turned over to Israeli officials for a security checks. After approval, tho traveler wnuld pick up the card from a joint Israeli­Palestinian office, Erekat said 
The passage would nperate at least ten hours a day, seven days a week, Erekat said, and travelers would he Pxpected to make the 28-mile trip within two hours. 
B!m-J\mi said the new agree­ment addressed Israel's con­cerns about security. 
"A safe passage must ho safe not just for Palestinians, but also for Israelis," he said. "It's important to preserve the absolute and uncompromising sovereignty of Israel." 
Barak said in a Knesset speech on Monday that he saw safe passage on Israeli high­ways as a temporary agree­ment, ultimately to be replaced by building a separate, elevated highway. 
Negotiators also resolved the prickly issue over whether Israel could arrest Palestinians on the road, said Palestinian security chief Mohammed Dahlan, a member of the negoti­
AT TIAA-CREF, WW EXPENSES ARE A lllGH PRIORITY. 
All financial companies charge operating fees and expenses ­some more than others. Of course, the lower the expenses you pay, the better. That way, more ofyour money goes where it should -toward building a comfortable future. 
As the largest retirement system in the world,1 we have among the lowest expenses in the insurance and mutual fund industries.2 
In fact, TIAA-CREF's 0.35% average fund expenses are a fraction of the expense charges of comparable funds.3 It's one reason why Morningstar says,
.. 

"TIAA-CREF sets the standard in the 
ii Ensuring the future for those who shape it."" 
financial services industry." 
A focus on your future Of course, expenses are only one factor to consider when you make an invest­ment decision. Morningstar also noted our commitment to "consumer education, service" and "solid investment perfor­mance." Because that can make a differ­ence in the long run, too. 
At TIAA-CREF, we believe people would like to spend more in retirement, not on their retirement company. Today, over two million people count on that approach to help them build financial security. So can you. 
To find out more -give us a call or visit our website 
I 800 842-2776 www.tiaa-cref.org 

1 Based ol'I. $250 billion in assets under management. 2 Standard d p,,,_'f':, !11.mra111·~ RntlJ19 A11n/y.,i.,, /999; and Lipper Analytical Service:,, Inc., /,ipf'('r•Diri:d,1r.,' A11n(vti,·o.l Data 1999 (quarterly). :7>,1f,,miJ1g,,ta.r Variabk JJmwitU.,//,ife, 6/30/1999. Of the 6,332 variable annuities tracked by Morningstar, the average fund had total fees combining annual expenses of0.84% plus an iosura11i:e expense of 1.26%. TIAA-CREF expenses are subjei:t lo change and are nut guaranteed for the future. Past performance i!!o no guarantee of future rci.ults. TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services distributes CREF certificates and interests in the TIAA Real fatale Account. For more complete information, including charges and expenses, call 
l 800 842-2776, extension 5509, for prospectuses. Read them carefully before you invest or send money. 
8199 

ating team. 
Palestinians said that the 
"Israel has given assurances
agreement over the route ­
got news? 1-5323. 
that safe passage will not
delayed for four years by previ­
become a trap for Palestinians,"
ous governments -was a sign 
he said. 

Tuesday, October 5, l 999 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 

Flu hits U.S. early, health officials recommend flu shots 
csc 
C E N T E R F O R 


SOCIAL CONCERNS 


Urban Plunge is a 48-hour experiential learning course set in urban communities, where students visit with individuals, agencies and parishes that are striving to meet the many needs of the socially and economically disenfranchised. 
Information Sessions at the
;> 

II Center for Social Concerns: 
Tue_sday, October 5 at 7:30 P.M. or Wednesday, October 27 at 9:00 P.M. 
Questions? Call lay Caponigro at the CSC 
631-5293 


ing people to get vaccinated Control and Prevention in ed, with the viruses 1wentually Associated Press 
against thti disease, the sixth­Atlanta nstimates that as mush making their way south to the lnading cause of death in the as 20 percent of the population western United States and even­
HOSTON 
United States. gets the flu every season. tually the East Coast, said Dr.
Tlw f'lu suason appears to 
"Hcm!'mber when you get Approximately 20,000 Steven Mostow, associate dean
have arrived early this ynar, 
your shots, just think to yoursell' Americans die from llu compli­of the University of Colorado 
courtesy ol' an inf1u1-mza strain 
afterwards, it's just one shot for cations each year. Medical School and an influenza 
that ri:achnd tlrn continental 
man. one giant leap for public Flu viruses follow well-worn expert.
United Statlis by hopping a ride health," Massachusetts Public paths, starting in Asia and head­"They (flu viruses] follow a on Alaskan cruisn ships. 
Ilealth Commissioner Howard ing east, health officials say. very prescribed pattern,"Public hnalth officials from Koh said Monday. Alaska i.s usually the first place Mostow said. "This is early. YouColorado to Massachusetts have The U.S. Centers for Disease in the United States to be affect-can predict by the week over akirknd off campaigns Pncourag-

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
30-year period." 
Colorado moved up its flu vac­cine campaigns by two weeks this year, Mostow said. lie expects t.he flu will show up four weeks early, hitting Colorado this month and reaching the East Coast by Thanksgiving. 
Several cases have been reported in the continental United States, including four in Colorado linked to Alaska cruise ship outbreaks, he said. 
"The way the boats are set up -eating in large groups, tour­ing in large groups -facilitated the threat of the virus," Mostow said. 
States have become creative with their flu vaccination cam­paigns. 
In Massachusetts, Koh distrib­uted T-shirts. Colorado gives flu shots in grocery stores and at football games. In Fort Edward, N.Y., health oflicials have set up a drive-through shot clinir.. 
In Atlantic City, N..J., elderly gamblers got flu shots Monday at Baily's Park Place ballroom while slot machines jangled in the next room. Nurses said the shot could causP soreness in thdr arms. 
Leader/Manager. 
Full-time college students or graduates. $31 K starting salary. Summer interns available. 
U.S.M.C. Officer Programs. 
Contact Lt. Simek at 
765-743-8359. 

page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, October 5, 1999 



Countdown to 

J2K@ND: 
87 days 

This Week in Campus Ministry 
Continuing through November 1 l 03 Hesburgh Library. 112 Badin Hall 
Freshman Retreat #25 (Nov. 5-6) Sign-Up 
T orgeted Dorms: Alumni, Breen-Phillips, Dillon, Howard, Keough, Lyons, McGlinn, Posquerillo West, and Sorin 
Monday-Friday, October 4-8 103 Hesburgh Library 
Notre Dame Encounter Retreat #58 (Nov. 5-7) Sign-Up 
Tuesday, October 5, 7:00 pm Badin Hal! Chapel 
Campus Bible Study 
Tuesday, October 5, 7:00-8:30 pm Siegfried Hall Chapel Confirmation Program ­Meeting for Candidates and Sponsors 
Wednesday, October 6. 8:00 pm Wilson Commons 
Graduate Student Bible Study Group 
Wednesday, October 6, l 0:00-10:30 pm Walsh Hall Chapel 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
A spirit-filled, student-led power half hour of prayer and music for students of all Christian faith traditions. 
Wednesday, October 6, 8:00 pm 
A Faith Communi1y of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual Students and Their Friends sponsored by Campus Ministry 
Fr. Nicholas Ayo, c.s.c. will present reflections and lead discussion on The Lord's Prayer. Please contact Tami Schmitz at 631-3016 or Tom Doyle, c.s.c. 
at 631-3391 for information on meeting place. 
Monday, October 11. 6:00-8:00 pm Walsh Hall Chapel 
Emmaus Leadership Training 
Contact Clore Sullivan at 631-5242 with any questions. 
about God. out Jesui:;:::;:.~.~.:......::::;~~=\;-~~ 
et's begin by defining several terms. Millennium, most simply, means a period of 1,000 years. As we begin a new millennium, Pope John -Paul II invites a new evangelization or a renewed effort to im the Gospel in such a way as to transform modern society and culture. Millenarianism 1,000 year reign of Christ mentioned in the Book of Revelation (20:6) as a period of earthly 
s en the just shall rule the earth. This literal interpretation of Revelation has been universally repudiated by the Catholic tradition, but it continues to be held by adherents of the Adventist tradition and some Christian traditions. 
Father Raymond E. Brown, S.S., a renowned Catholic scripture scholar, sheds some light on how we are to read and understand the Book of Revelation. Brown considers Revelation (also called Apoca-h lypse) to be the most difficult New Testament W. .a, t does the biblical book from a reader's viewpoint. Here's what he has to say. 
"f do not find it terribly difficult from a Bible' s Book of scholars viewpoint because the scholar tends to have read books of this same type -Jewish 

Revelation tell us
apocalypses filled with vivid imagery symbolic of good and evil. Therefore, the scholar is alerted not to take the imagery of the Apoca­
about tt,a coming
lypse literally, but to read it as Jews familiar with this type of literature would have read it when it was written. Even though we use the of the Millennium? term "apocalyptic" today for ominous and ex­travagant events, the literary genre ofapocalypse in the biblical style is not a familiar form of contempo­rary writing. Therefore the current reader rends to pick up a book like Revelation and to take literally various numerical schemata and predictions ofan end at hand. This produces enormous confusion ... 
We need not suppose the author had or was given by God knowledge of the distant future. Therefore, useless are all speculations about how long the earth is to last, or how long it will be before Christ comes back, or when the end of the world will come -speculations based on the Book <d'Revelation ... Never1he­less, these speculations have haunted people fur 2,000 years. as in the cour.~e oftime various individuals have jumped up with the Book of Revelation in their hand and announced that they now understand the numerical message and the end ofrime is at hand. Thus far all such i11terpretation1· have been wrong: the world is still here. 
The basic message ofthe Apocalypse is one oflwpe in a time ofpersecution. Using symbolic language, such as that of great beasts, dragons, .floods, fire, etc., the author describes his time as one r?f' severe affliction and sufferi11g produced by evil. Amidst this, he wishes to reassure the readers that God has control ofall things, thus hi.t imagery ofa heavenly book in which all things are written down, or r~fa period oftime in which the various activities that happen have a set limit, or ofangels that can overcome the.forces <>{ evil, or even of' good beasts that can overcome the bad D h f · th beasts. He is saying to the persecuted and siiffering group0 YOU aVe a al that they are not to despair; for God will bring all this to an 
end and be victorious. " 
question you've 
The Book of Revelation does indeed have something to saybeen wanting to to us as Catholic Christians. It is not the end of anything, but a chance to make a new beginning. [tis not a time of despair,ask? Ask us @ but a time of great hope and trust in the goodness of God and the power of God's love in and for all people. We celebrate
ministry. l@nd.edu or 
the year 2000 as a Year of Jubilee. and we are challenged to let this spirit ofjoy and hope that springs from the knowledge 
drop it off at 112 Badin 
that God does triumph permeate our lives and our world. 
Good Stuff to Do 
Sign-up NOW for the 
November 5-7 Notre Dame Encounter Retreat 
A weekend retreat experience guided by students,faculty and staff 
Sign-up deadline: Before 4:00 pm, October 8 Pick up applications @ 103 Hesburgh Library • Call 1-7800 for more info 
Drop by the O'Hara Lounge at Lafortune (next to the Info Desk) 








Have you hugged a Campus Minister today? 
Meet the Campus Ministry staff Share your thoughts, ask questions, eat M&Ms Monday-Friday, 12 noon -2:00 pm 
page 9 

The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS
Tuesday, October 5, 1999 

BIOSPHERE 2: SEMESTER "ABROAD" Fall 2000 & Spring 2001 
Informational Meeting: 
Thursday, October 7th 
4:45 pm, 126 DeBartolo 
Learn ahout the newest ND Semester "ab. d"
, . . • 10a program: E,trt.h Studies semester at Biosphere 2 i·n O 1 A .
.-t· ~ . · . rac e, nzona
( 1
o l:I eel m partnership with Colu, ta U . . Unlik
' mh. mvers1ty) other program offered to ND students!! . e any 

Aiutiltjfor 100% eauquu Participai:wlt/ 
Private school donors to get tax breaks 
schools. A $200 tax credil is \ssociated Press available for public school extracurricular activity fees 
WASJJINGTON 

covering items such as band The Supreme Court on uniforms, athletic gear and lab­\1.onday let Arizona give tax 
oratory equipment.breaks to people who donate The state Supreme Court said money for scholarships at reli­the school tuition tax credit "is gious and other private schools. one of an extensive assortment 
The court, without comment of tax-saving mechanisms avail­turned away appeals that said able as part of a genuine sys­the state's program of providing tem of tax laws" and thereforn up to $500 in tax credits for is far different than direct st.ate such charitable giving violates financial aid to religious
the constitutionally required 
schools. 
separation of church and state. The state court's dissenters 
Monday's action is not a said the fednral and Arizona precedent-setting decision. The constitutions "forbid using the justices merely refused to powor of the government to review an Arizona Supi·eme provide the type of support
Court ruling that, by a 3-2 vote, encompassed by Arizona's had upheld the tuition tax-cred­
statute." it program. In Lhe appoals acted on 
.. But ~upporters of providing Monday. the program's chal­hnancial help such as tuition lengers called it "a thinly dis­vouchers or tax breaks for fam­guised use of the tax code as a ilies whose children attend reli­~mans of transferring public
gious and other private schools funds lo the coffors of private ­likely will see the action as a mostly sBctariun -schools." 
major boost for similar efforts They said the Arizona in other states. Department of Hnvenue esti­Last November, Urn justices mates the tax-credit programleft intact a Wisconsin program could provide private schools providing vouchers good for up wi_th $75 million a year. They to $5,000 a year per child for s,ud nearly hair the st.ates am students of poor families who considering providing similar 
attend private schools in public iinancial support for reli­
Milwaukee. Because most of gious and other private schools. those schools are religious, the The appeals were supported program had been subjected to 
by tlrn National School Boards a church-state challenge. ~ssociation, which argund in a In Arizona, a 1997 law enact­lrwnd-of-tlw-court brief that ed by the state Legislature the Arizona program "is a wink 
allows taxpayers to take a dol­and a nod lo thP-very dear and lar-for-dollar write-off, up to explicit prohibition against reli­$500, for donations to private gious school linancial support." 
You-a,re,, i,wirul to aJ:tend, ~ 
1999 Notre, 'D~ 
unaet:l W'!f KidvOff wed,,,,udAy, October 6 Irul-v Courtyard a.t ~ Morru I1t1v 
7:00 4'H<. 12:15[>'-Uf/. 4:30p,.lfl,I. 
Parking will be available in either the Bookstore lot or the Visitor's lot south of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
Foo~ Door Prize£ and Furv 
Be sure to watch for results on campus-wide participation totals and weekly drawing winners on the official Notre Dame United Way web site at 
www.nd.edu/-uway. 

Tuesday, October 5, 1999

page 10 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 



Going up. 
As you begin your ascent to the top, remember, it's what you learn along the way that counts. At Ernst & Young, you can have endless learning opportunities working with leading companies in leading industries. So when you get to your destination, you'll belong there. Ride with us. www.ey.com 
FORTUNE 
U)~~~ •• 
~MIES 
TD WORK FDR 


© 1999 ERNST & YOUNG LLP 
-WWW 

-, 
Tuesday, October 5, 1999 
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 
page 11 


Abu-Jamal loses Supreme Court appeal 

Associated Press 
Pl IILADELPHIA 
Mumia Abu-Jamal, Lhc former Black l'antlrnr and radio jour­nalist s11ntenc11d to death for killing a poliw officer, lost a Suprome Court appeal Monday. 
Without commenting, llrn court rnf'usml to rnviP.w 
executed soon. He still can chal­lenge his state court conviction in federal courts, a process that someday could lead back to the Supreme Court. 
Abu-Jamal's attorney, Leonard Weinglass, said he would appeal to U.S. District Court. 
"It is not a setback, but it is a missed opportunity," Weinglass 
said. "The 
court could 
Abu-Jamal's 
'The court could have have ended the arguments case quickly.
ended the case quickly.
that he was 
Now we will 
donied a fair Now we will have to go have to go the trial in tho 
the long route. " long route." 
1981 killing of 
T h e Philadelphia Pennsylvaniapolico officer Leonard Weinglass Supreme Court 
Daniel Abu-Jamal's attorney upheld Abu­
Faulk1rnr. 
A b u · .Jamal's jailhouse writings about the justice system has attracted worldwide attention. Thousands ol' supporters have staged dmnonstrations in Philadelphia to demand a new trial. 
"While I am distrnssed at the thought that 18 years have pasiwrl since that night I will never forget, I am pleased that yut another hurdle has been cleared on the path toward _jus­tico." l\faurnnn Faulkner, widow of llrn slain officer, said in a statnnmnt. 
<;ov. Tom Bidge will sign a rww exnrution warrant for Abu­Jamal wilhin 30 days, following state policy in capital cases. spokesman Tim Hnevos said. 
Abu-.famal is not liknly to be Jamal's convic­
tion and death 
sentence, saying lt found no 
merit in various arguments his 
lawyers raised. 
Abu-Jamal was convicted of shooting Faulkner to death after the police officer stopped Abu­Jamal's brother for driving the wrong way down a city street. Abu-Jamal, found wounded at the scene, maintained his inno­cence and contended he was framed. 
The appeal raised three _legal arguments, none focusing on Abu-Jamal's claim of innocence. But his lawyers did tell the jus­tices about "an array of evidence powerfully supporting his .long­s tanding insistence that he is victim of a monumental injus­tice." 
House GOPs propose spending cuts 
. Republicans seek "The beauty of it is it reaf­cutting popular programs for alternative income firms our commitment to pro­children, the elderly and oth­
tect Social Security more and ers.
tax credit plan 
control spending, and it does Last week, Republicans pro­------------so in a fair and evenhanded 
Associated Press 
WASI-IINGTON 
Across-the-board cuts in all 
spending bills emerged 
Monday as a favorite way to 
save money. as House 
Republicans searched for 
ways to replace their earlier 
proposal to slow income sup­
port payments to the working 
poor. 
Pollowing a closed-door 
meeting of House 
Republicans, lawmakers said 
that while not explicitly call­
ing the payment slowdown 
dead, House Speaker Dennis 
Hastert, a Republican from 
Ill., and other GOP leaders 
had implied they needed to 
find an another source of sav­
ings. 
Republican leaders began searching for an alternative last week after the plan to slow earned income tax cred­it payments for low-income families drew criticism from Texas Gov. George W. Bush, the front-running GOP presi­dential contender, and contin­ued opposition from Senate Republicans. 
At Monday's meeting, House Budget Committee Chairman John Kasich, a Republican from Ohio told party meme­bers they could replace the $8. 7 billion in savings the tax credit slowdown would have produced by cutting tbe 13 annual spending bills by that amount of money. 
posed that the 20 million peo­way," said Rep. John Porter, a ple receiving the earned Republican from Ill. income tax credit get their Kasich's proposal includes money in 12 monthly checks, 
applying the cuts to defense rather the current lump sum spending -something not all most receive in the spring.Republicans like. The leaders That would have allowed 
made no final decisions, aides lawmakers to take credit for said. 
saving $8. 7 billion in fiscal 

The spending bills control 2000, which began Friday, more than $550 billion. It because with the delays, that would take a 2.7 percent cut amount of money would have to produce $8. 7 billion in sav­been paid after Oct. 1, 2000 
ings this year, since some of -in fiscal 2001. the savings would not take Republicans want to save effect until later years, law­the money so they can claim makers and 
they are aides quot­paying for

"The beauty ofit is
ed Kasich 
the spending 

as saying. it reaffirms our 
bills without 
T h e 

commitment to protect eating in the 
across-the­
Social

Social Security more and
bo ard cut Security sur­
idea is also control spending." 
plus -a popular Rep. John Porter pledge that a m o n g 
Illinois Republican has become 
Senate 
Republicans. 
Supporters say it would allow Republicans to argue that the reductions are preferable to using Social Security surpluses, and to President Clinton's proposal for paying for extra spending: raising the federal tax on cig­arettes. 
But since across-the-board reductions, by definition, would affect many programs, other Republicans say it would be easy for Clinton to portray them as recklessly 
a  central  
G  O  P  
promise this year.  

Even with the $8. 7 billion cut, the House remained $1.2 billion short of savings. said one Republican aide, speak­ing on condition of anonymity. 
And Senate Budget Committee Chairman Pete Domenici, a Republican from N.M., has told fellow Republican senators that they still need to find about $4 bil­lion in savings for that cham­ber's spending bills to avoid draining Social Security sur­pluses, said another GOP aide. 

COLLEGE OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CARDINAL O'HARA LECTURE SERIES ON BUSINESS ETHICS ELMER JOHNSON PRESIDENT OF THE ASPEN INSTITUTE FORMER EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT OF GENERAL MOTORS /~.·_·~.;;:I,, ' " ' ,___,./ .· ·. -~ . Integrating Faith and Life -~·~-· TUESDAY, OCTOBER 5 AT 7:30 PM JORDAN AUDITORIUM, COLLEGE OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION SPONSORED BY: f\otre Dame Center for Ethics and ReligiousValues in Business  










VIEWPOINT 
page 12 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Norr< Dame. IN 4(,'.>56 024 Sourh Dining Hall. Norre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Michelle Krupa 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
M.. Shannon Ryan  David Rogero  
AssT, MAN.\GING EDITOR  
Laura Perelle  

Nr:ws EDITOR: Tim Logan V1£Wl'Olr..T EDITOR: Colb,n Gaughen SPORTS EDITOR: Rrian Kessler 
SCENE EDITOR: 'Aichael \'anegas SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie PHnTo Emron: Kevin Dalum 
ADVERTISING M\NAGEfu Bryan Lutz 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Bret Huelat SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers WfR ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kushto 
CONTROLI.ER: Timothy Lane GRAPHICS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGERIG£N£RAJ.. INFO..............G31-747 I PAX... . ............................. 631-6927 
AoVEllT!SING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................ 631-4542 MANAGING EmToR/AssT. ME.................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OmcE........................................631-5313 NEWS.......................................................... 631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT....................•............................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sporrs. I@nd.edu SCENE.............. ,........................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAJNT MARY'S...........................................63 I -4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .................631-88.19 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for
weather for up-to-the 
min u ce forecasts 
weddy student reviews 
online fi:atures for spe­
advertise for policies 
and rates of prim acls 
cial cam pus coverage 
about The Observer
archives to search for 
articles published after 
to meet the editors and 
staff
Augusc 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the srudenrs ofthe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. Acting as pub­lisher of The Observer, the administration of the University of Notre Dame du Lac prohibits the adver­tisement ofalcohol and The Observer's acceptance of advertisements from specified types ofgroups. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edirorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encomaged. 
Question, rtgardinx Observer polines should be direct­ed to Fditor in ChiefMichelle Krupa. 
Ossl:RVER Tuesday, October 5, 1999 

This Sunday marked the beginning of Respect Lite Week, the time of year in which the Church calls us to pay special attention to promoting the sanctity of all human life from conception to natural death. Within the scope of the pro-lifo 
John Linn
movement, our focus often falls on these two events: the very beginning 
Right to Life 
of life and its devel­opment during pregnancy, and the final rite of passage in the last hours before death. No one will deny that these are extremely important events in the course of life. However, thev account for such a short time in the grind scheme. There are so many other opportunities to uphold and celebrate the beauty of life through the simple daily process of inter­acting with others, treating the least of Christ's brothers as we would treat Him. 
One such group of people, often con­sidered out of the loop, out of touch and, for all practical purposes, useless, has a face we see every day, whether at Notre Dame or at home: the elderly. It's so easy to treat senior citizens as fading lights of life ready to burn out, to see them as a group of people whose quality of life is on the decline and whose value to us is diminishing. Sure, we briskly say hello, offer a smile, perhaps to make ourselves feel charitable under the assumption that our insignificant gesture brings a remarkable amount ofjoy to the person. Let's get real. Whether we talk to a 10­year-old child or a 70-year-old lady, the amount of real attention paid to the per­son is what really matters, and that kid or that elderly person is as aware as any of this. The cordial phrases and courte­ous greetings are nice in the sense of acknowledging a person's physical pres­ence, but what real meaning does it have? How do they bear witness to that person's individuality, his uniqueness of character? 
They don't, really. Nevertheless, what's the use in identifying our shortcomings if we fail to correct them at the next chance? The opportunities abound to show true interest and respect for elderly life. Many of us have grandparents living today, people to whom we undoubtedly owe a great deal of gratitude that cannot really be repaid. Bui beyond what they've done for us in the past, beyond their nurturing role in our parents' lives and in our lives, they still are alive and c;;till want to share that gift with us. Grandparents sit with outstretched arms. offering unconditional love, a bent car and a story to tell. That story is one of experience and wisdom, two invaluable commodities that we as 20-somethings cannot possess. Our only sources of these are the older people we know. Little pieces of how life really works and how people act -these are so characteristic of a conversation with someone who has been in our position before and so important in decision making dilemmas we all face. 
For those of you lucky enough to have your grandparents, tap into this incredi­ble resource right at your fingertips. Call your grandma tomorrow, play cards or pool with your grandpa over fall break and talk with them. People who care so much about you not only love to share their stories with you, they also appreci­ate hearing about your daily journeys. 
Grandparents are a smooth case -it's fun to sit and talk with them, and it's easy to love them. There are also elderly people living around us -neighbors, daily communicants and employees at local businesses -who are just as important and deserving of our attention. People who ask for help carrying their groceries and who become ecstatic at the prospect of the ensuing 15-minute visit, a chance to bring out some snacks and have a pleasant conversation with a young and vibrant individual. Those who have belonged to a parish for as long as they can remember are thrilled to see the new blood that will keep the place going, the youth that can contribute the energy they once did. 
Next time you go home, take some of these ideas with you. Remember the point of Respect Life Week, and the greatest direction our lives can take: to witness the beauty of life at any stage, especially the last 10 years of it, and to share in its wealth of knowledge, feelings and emotions. 
But we don't need to wait until we go home. Here at Notre Dame, a place where the population is predominantly young adult, elderly people walk in our midst and contribute to the daily mission of the University. Think of all the Holy Cross priests sprnad throughout r.ampus, their lifetime dedication to Christ and to I!is ministry and the talents they share with the communitv here. Their homi­lies, sacraments arid classes allow us to share in the lives of a very special, invaluable group of people. 
Think of the people who staff the din­ing halls -many of them elderly, all with unique characteristics and qualities unknown to most of us. If vou have the chance to go to the dining.hall at a non­peak time, stop and talk for a few min­utes with those who swipe your ID card. Let them tell you what they think of our football team, of our campus develop­ments, of the way things used to be here. Talk with the lady at grab 'n' go about the grandchildren for whom she's col­lecting juice box decal stickers and ask to see their pictures. Spend a few minutes each day -actual quality time -with the seniors that work here on campus. The elderly here and at home are not simply a group of society that can be classified as one-dimensional, as one to be forgotten after five seconds of imper­sonal exchange. They are a functioning, integral part of humanity that will always be with us, ready to offer counsel, support and their own histories. 
Often, we who are pro-life become so involved in the more dramatic scenarios we address (troubled pregnancy, the very end of life, death row) that we skip past such a real and important segment: the time in between, filled with so much valuable life to recognize, appreciate and embrace. ln this Respect Life Week and beyond, let's remember those daily examples of unique lives that we can honor and share with others, especially the elderly in our presence. One day, we too will be part of the senior generation in society. Will we want to be the lamp hidden under a basket or the one placed on a stand giving light to those around us? 
John Linn is co-president ofNotre Dame Right to Life. This column appears every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
DILBERT 
I  HEAR YOU'RE  HE I$  
BEING  REPLACED  S0-00  
BY  A  LOW-PA.ID  CUTE!  
EMBRYO.  MAY  1  
$£.£. IT?  

SCOTT ADAMS  
I'M TEACH­ING HIM TO DP.INK COFFEE.  IT /"\U5T BE.. I OR.INK SIX 0UAP-T5 A Dfl..~. AND LOOK AT  

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Show me a good and gracious loser and I'll show you a failure." 
Knute Rockne 

, 
VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, October 5, 1999 OBSERVER page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Students strongly support military ethics 
Military influence 
Soldiers did it all for you 
Yestnrday was the first nations whkh, of course, 
I went offto war, a young man You say I did it for the rush, for hell that we had gone through
time I have ever felt rom­involves violence. A world 
with high ideals, all the sheer joy, You never even considered that
pdled lO writo Tho in which violence dues not 
I went off to war, still knowing You claim I saw my rifle as some we'd done it all for you. 
Obscrv,1r, and it happened occur would be wonderful. 
how the support of a nation feels. kind of toy. Many years have gone by and
after reading about u lec­And, don't get me WTOng, 
1didn't really want to go, it You will never know the horrors many wars have been fought,
turti givon by Fathe1· Frank we should never stop slriv­
wasn't my life plan. then, of all the pain, And it was for you each and
Cordaro featured on the ing for pP.acc, however. vio­
Rut my country called me -they Blood pouring from men I knew every victory that we sought.
front page of' the Sept. 30 lence is u cruel reality of 
nnedfld everv man. -blood, pouring like rain. It was for you that I left home, 
issue of The Observ<1r. I our world, it always has 
Now I took my responsibility Violence was not a game as we left my comfortable life.
rt'alize that Father Cordaro bePn. This means·that we 
seriously and so I went. trudged through the forest day It was for you that I hugged
is probably a much more have the military to protect 
My time fighting war was some after day. goodbye tlrn kids and kissed my
knowledgeahln and cxperi­us. I do not resent Father 
of the worst I've ever spent. I wasn't in love with war when wife.
encod person than I. but, it Cordaro's pacifism, but I do 
Yet vou now we were told to save a bullet for And now you want to disclaim
donsn't snem that he knows resent others that 

claim: so many ourselves, and to pray. my work and all I've done?
about t!Hi military he think the military 
years later, that I didn't think it was very fun After all, you think I did it just for
prnachos againsl. is evil. I especially 
I must have when Sam took one in the gut, fun.
My fatlrnr was in the Air resent such 
loved it. We hid for three days and he You say I worship weapons, that
Fore<'. and I practically thoughts when 
That I must died in a godforsaken hut. I adort:i their power. 
grow up on the military the people 
havA loved the It wasn't my idea•of a joke when If only you had lived a day of
basP miar mv housfl. Mv expressing them 
violence, I became a prisoner of war, war, just one hour.
family would visit tho Air have had little or 
watching men The things I saw there shook me Then you would understand how 
Force Acmfomy in Colorado no contact with 
get hit. to my very core necessary is the job I do. 
Springs. where I would see the military. 
You, who And as I sat there in solitary, my How it is I did what I did all of 
military planes, training These kind of 
have never heart turned somewhat hard you.
grounds and airshows. anti-military snn­
truly known As Jremembered the smell of Yet you want to discard my
From all this, did I ever get liments have led• 
war, who ran smoke as others burned their card. memorials, to forget what has
the idea that violenc<l was to the downsizing 
when it was And now you look back and criti­transpired.
to be admirml, or that I of our country's 
time to go. cize never truly realizing what is And you would have all those 
was "culturnd in a culture military over the 
How can you true. people who fight for you now be 
of violence')" NO! From all past few years. I 
preach about How I managed and how I suf­fired.
of my nxposurn to the mili­have witnessed 
things of which fered -I did it all for you. All those people who study and
tary. I was never taught to the closure of two 
you really do I did it so that you could choose train so that if ever needed they
like violence nor was I military bases in 
not know? the religion you wanted to be, are ready
desensitizml lo it. In fact, I my city. Has this 
We all want I did it so that all the concentra­To go out and defend you with a
have only good memorios elimination of the 
peace, to be tion camp prisoners could be free. will that is steady. 
of' my experiences. I believe military ptesence 
able to sleep You know, a lot ofus left so No one really likes to kill, and no 
that the military does teach led to a less vio­
peacefully in much at home -our jobs, our one wants to fight.
its members honor and lent culture for 
bed, friends, our wives. But we do what we do so that
respect, lwo things that me? Well obvi­
But you Yet so many of us will never you can sleep secure at night.
sucm to bn grnatly lacking ously not. since I 
wouldn't go -return, so many gave you their It's ironic you know; we light so 
in our society as a whole live 20 minutes 
you sent anoth­lives. that you can say the things you 
today. And the military has away from 
er man in your They did it bravely, with all the say,
held its people to high stan­Littleton, 
stead. courage that could be had, We fight so that you can speak
dards. Most military fami­Colorado. 
And he was And now you call them psychotic, your mind in your own way.
lies I know have not The military 
somebody's now you claim them mad. Protecting your way of life, insur­
undergone divorce or other has done much good for 
brother, somebody's son, They gave all they had in your ing that you are safe
problems (I rnalize this is our country, and it has the 
And you killed him, just as sure defense, to protect the life you You will never know the pain you 
not always the easel. Also, 1 potential to do even more. 
as you fired the gun. know. inflict, how your words chafe.
havn S(~en the immense People such as Father 
But I fought on, what else could We gave all we had to secure you War was never easy, and I wish 
good the military docs. It Cordaro, who are so quick 
a soldier do? a victory, to defeat the foe. that you only knew
has provided jobs, health­to blast the military, ought 
And you know something? I did And now you look back at our When I lost my life in war, I lost 
care and security to pnople to try and realize this. 
it all for you. efforts with disdain, as if it were a it just for you. 
who may not have had any 
I did it for your way oflife, so sham,
of these without it. Sarah Kaczka 
that you could live free. When I finally got home, I sadly Katie McCalden
YPs, the main purposn of Sophomore, Welsh Hall 
I did it for all those chi~dren -realized that no one gave a damn. Freshman, McGlinn Hall
the military is to be pre­October I. I 9?9 
. all those families yet to be. Society no longer recognized the October I. I999
pared lo fight against other 
Hypocrite administrators lie again 
I lave you heard'' The administration !ins, and lies big lime. And yes, about important issues; Sweatshops, gays ... all thn oldios but goodies ... And they're a bunch of' hypocrites (did I mention they lie?). 
"!low so't" you 
Jay Johnson
may ask. Well, I'll 
toll you, and, if a/ler rnading this r:olumn 
Progressive
you're not comp!etii­
Student
ly convinced that I'm 
Alliance
right, I'll rl'f'und y'c,ur 
Lime. (Smrw condi­
tions may apply. See mn for details.) 
First, let's discuss the lying part. IJo you rnrall tho tinw wlum Father Malloy led us all to biilieve that th,~ "sexual orientation clause" issue would be decided by the Board nfTrusttiHs at its Februarv meet­ing'! In fact, they had dRcided months earlier that thoy would continue the, "Ug­think-gay-people-bad. real-bad" policy. Now that was classic! It's not just lying, it's Notre Dame lying! Ahhhhh, memories ... those wPn' good times gentle reader, good times. 
And the hypocrisy of it all is almost. t.oo much to bear. I'm not a theologian, liko Pat Buchanan m· Scan Vinck, but, as I recall, there was a guy who lived a long 
time ago who said wild and wacky things 
like, "luve everyone," and general hippy­
type stuff like that. l think (but don't quote me on this) his name was Jesus. Thus, the fact that His so-called followers 
in the Administration are so committed to discriminating against gays, falls, Jfeel, just a tad short of Jesus' J{ame plan for 
humanity (not to mention the fact that 
this whole fiasco is very bad news for 
Notre Dame's academic reputation). 
Ooh, oo! What about this who!P issue of Notre Dame employing slave labor con­centration camps. Now there's a doozey­doubl!1 whammy, because, once again, not ouly are they lying, but being total hypocrites as well. Again. let's deal with the lying part first. 
The administration claims that it cares about the conditions under which ND merchandisn is made. However, those on the battle front of this issue do not believe that concrete measures have been taken to ensure the dignity of exploited work­ers. Not one truly significant step. 
The Administration claims that it's "looking into'' this issue. Yeah, in the same way that a crack addict "looks into" quitting. These people are so addicted to the big bucks they can't pull themselves 
away from the "competitive advantage" 
that only slave labor provides (God bless capitalism)! 
Which brings me to the hypocrite part. Malloy pretends to be a priest ... but of what church, I don't know. The Catholic Church (maybe you've heard of' it) man­dates a living wage for all people as a basic moral principlA. 
I'm sorry, but making 15 cents an hour doesn't exactly fall under the category of, "adequate compensation." I guess Malloy thinks to himself, "Hey, it's just Jesus who thinks all of this justice stuff is so impor­tant. I pull rank here! I'm in charge of ND, and Jesus was just a carpenter/ Savior of all Humankind." 
Bottom line: I feel that the University doesn't want to find out the specifics of where and how all the Notre Dame apparel is made. Why? Because they know we "radicals" will check up on the deaJ to make sure the administration's own "beliefs" are being enforced [insert biting sarcasm here]. 
I guess the Administration would just like us students to trust them to do the right thing, uh huh. 
We students have an obligation NOT to believe the Administration. They are the "man" and we students are the "masses." That's the way it works; that's the tradi­tion in the American college system. It's fiat out un-American to trust them. I hope you're not un-American. 
In conclusion, it is apparent, lo many members of the Notre Dame community, that the most important concerns of' the Administration am maximizing income and avoiding anything that might tarnish Notre Dame's reputation. 
I think it's pretty clear why full disclo­sure of factory conditions, wages and locations would serve neither of those concerns. 
ND: Slave labor and gay-bashing. May God forgive us all. 
Jay Johnson is a graduate student in the Government and International Studies department, and is a member of the Progressive Student Alliance. lie hopes that your life was changed b.lJ reading this column and that you willjoin PSA. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those <lThe Observer. 


C 
O
THE 
page 14 BSERVER Tuesday, October 5, I 999 
By BRIAN McLAUGHLIN 
Scene W rirer 
Everyone probably has noticed a number of flyers posted at various spots around campus advertising the campus radio station WVFI. And everyune 
who's paid att!'ntion to the posters has probably also noticed that no AM or FM numbers are listed on the fly­ers. So what's the deal'? Doesn't every ordinary radio station broadcast over one of th1'so two hands? W<'ll that's just the thing: \WFI is no ordinary radio station. 
Thfl seeds for innovation within the totally student-run radio station were planted last semester when ,wrr was more or less a typical radio channel. Back then, WVFI broadcast over the AM band using an outdatl'd transmitter system. But the executive ollicers in charge or WVFI at the time noticed that the station suffered from very poor ratings and rould not figure out why. 
Sure enough, an inspection of campus radio devices in the middle of the spring semester revealed that many residence hall transmitters were broken -about five buildings were actually capable of receiving the station. Technicians said that tlrn transmitters could be fixed, but at a price that was considered too large for what was agreeably "technology of the past." 
But if \WFI were to leave AM. the obvious destination would be the FM band. But it is well-known that there are no spots available on the FM band in this area. So where would they go? 
The solution came in the form of the Internet. 
_ Working from the end of the 1999 spring semester through the following summer, WVFI created its own Web site and invested in Intnrnet teclmology, in order to become one of the onlv radio stations broadcast com­pletely over the Interm:L That means no more fiddling with annoying knobs to get reception that is never quite right -just type in wujLnd.edu into the location bar on your computer and the automatic, crystal clear recep­tion of the on-campus station will sound. To broadcast over the internet, WVFI uses live real audio feeds that are best received by downloading BealPlayer G2. (A link for RcalPlayer is located at the station's Web site.) Whilli rec:nrded songs in real audio format are known for low-quality sound, WVFI's live foeds are of surprisingly optimum quality, comparable to that of MP3s. In fact. \,\lVFI sounds just like a normal radio station -vvithout the static. The use of tho lntPrnet has proven beneficial, in that it makes WVFr capablfl of being heard worldwide. This especially comes in handy during its live broadcasts of Notre Dame football games. "The football broadcasts are probably the biggest thing we have going right now," said program director Mary Devona. "They have proven extremely success­ful." This is no wonder when factoring in that WVFI is the 
New Features of WVFI 
. An extensive Web site with information about upcom­
ing on-campus events, a catalog of all the music available 
at the station, information on local bands, a chat 
room and general information on the station itself. 
. 
Live Real Audio feeds via the Internet 

. 
Two specially shows every day, each catering to a specific gene 

. 
Exclusive broadcasting rig~ls to Notre Dame football 

. 
Complele renovation of the studio lacililies 

. 
An expanded music rotation 

. 
Plans to connect the DJs to AOL Instant Messenger so 


online listeners from all over can send in requests 
General Information 
. 
Location: La Fortune Student Center, 2nd Floor 

. 
Web Site: wvfi.nd.edu, tor live broadcast with Real 


Player G2 
. Requests: 631-6400 
. 
Hours of Operation: 10:45 a.m. to 2 p.m., Mon.-Sun. 

. 
Specialty Shows: 5 p.m. to 10 p.m., Mon.•Sun. 

. 
Basic Pop Rock: 10 p.m. to 1:45 a.m., Mon.-Sun. 



(Left) DJ Nicole Detorie of Pasquerilla East cues the next selection during her broadcast on Monday night, 7:30 • WVFI station manager and as a DJ. {Bottom Right) DJs and fans can enjoy the comforts of WVFl's listener lounge, 
only radio station with exclusive broadcasting rights for Notre Dame football. 
Normally, v\'VFI has enough live feeds to accommo­date everyone on campus, but only 99 off-campus listen­ers. However. for the football games, the station has a deal with ESPN to increase availability. Basically, WVFI sends ESPN a sing!"' link which it then multiplies infi­nitely. For the game against Purdue, off-campus listen­ers signing on to hear the game reached a total of 1,200. ESPN has said that 200 listeners is considered a lot. 
Sports Director C.J. Murray says that in the future, he is planning to broadcast Notre Dame basketball and hockey as well-as the bookstore sports competitions. 
Station manager John Forgash is especially excited about the station's new format. He said that the first part of this year will be focused on "raising general awareness of the station and getting students interested in listening." Getting students interested in what they were broadcasting was the main. concern of the second part of WVPJ's makeover, which affected the structure of the station itself rather than simply its method of broadcasting. 
Over the summer, the studio was totally restructured and a number of changes were made to WVFI's pro­gramming in general. Forgash said that the internal changes in the station were intended to "increase the professionalism of the station in order to ensure quality programming, and make WVF! more responsive to lis­tener demand." 
Music director Joe Bonavita said that one of the more effective changes regarding WVFI's general format was that the DJs now have more freedom in organizing their programs than they have had in the past. Sports direc­tor C.J. Murray expounded on this when he said that "the separation between the executive board and the DJs hard!~ ~fists this year, and the station is much more democratic. 
This change is reflected in the specialty shows that run from 5 p.m. to 10 p.m., Monday through Friday. Two shows run every day with each catering to a differ­ent, but specific genre. So if your tastes lean toward hardcore-punk, or even bluegrass. WVFI has a show created especially to satisfy those tastes. 
Throughout the rest of its broadcast time (10 a.m. to 
1:45 p.m., seven days a week), the station acts as basic popular rock radio station. But even in this area WVFI has expanded its horizons, which was facilitated by the fact that they have much more direct contact with record labels and can more easily receive large varieties of new music. As a result, WVFI has nearly quadrupled its music rotation. Also, the DJs have attempted to make the programming much more amusing, and they are always welcoming listeners to call in requests or just call in for the heck of it. 
The news department of the station is headed by Teresa Hoover. who urges any students interested in newscasting to come by the office. It is located on the second floor of Lafortune by the north stair. 
Being an online, interactive radio station on the Internet, WVPI's Web site is obviously a huge part of the 
... 
C 

'fi1esd:1y, October 5, 1999 
page 15 
•
tton WVFI SCHEDULE 
WVFI emerges this fall
' 

MARY CALASH/The Observer 
to 10 p.m. (Top Right) Keenan Hall's Bob Forgash serves as hich is furnished with thousands of CDs and vinyl records. 
staLion itsdf. Till' design and maintenance of the Web site falls 1111dPr tlw rnsponsibility of the Internet productions director Brian SnyclPr. Tlw station's Web sit<1 is incredibly extensive, with a dPpartrn«111t which informs students of' upcoming on-campus events, a catalog of all thP music available at the station, information on local bands, a chat room, a list of available campus jobs, a calendar of upcoming nmccrts in the arna, general information on the sta­tion its1·lf and Uw station's current top :-m list. WVFI also runs cnn­tnsti-; off thP sitn, and offors a survey so that listeners can give the stalion tlwir criliqtws and olfor suggest.ions. 
Tlw coming ynar will provn t.o lw a busy <me for WVFI, as they haVP many ideas plannP.d to hP-lp promote the station. They hope to hold spncial broadcasts from places around campus, including the golf cuurs(\ whnrn tlwy hiipo to host a tournamenl. Also, the station may sponsor on-campus pnl'orrnanr.ns by local bands. 
As part of t.lw n•1Hwatio11, WVFI has invested in computer hard­wan' as a means of bning on the cutting edge of radio technology. By having compuwrs in tlrn DJ booth, SnydHr hopes to connect tlwm to !\01. Instant Mesimnger, so that (mline listeners from literlly all over lhe world can easily send in rcqucsl'i. 
/\lso, tl111 staff is attempting to have campus computer clusters Pquippml with lwadphones so that people can listen lo WVFI while working. Finally, the contnsts have been promised to get bigger, Pv1•11tually allowing the station to give away television sets and other luxurious prizes. 
If WVFl's promotional campaign succeeds in increasing the size of its audience, these goals and others no doubt will be accom­plished. Yet. as Forgash said. "The main goal for this year is to focus on the listener and make sure that both the staff and the lis­tener have u great time." 
noon•3 p,in, 3:00-5 p.m. 5:00-7:30 p,rn. 7:30-10 p.m. 10 p.m.-midnight midnight-1:45 a.m. 
10 a.m.-noon noon-l:30 p.m. l:30·3 p.m. 3:00-5 p.m. 5:00-7::~o p.m. 7:30-10 p.m. lQp.m.-midnight midnight-1:45 a.m. 
10 a.m.-noon noon-1 :30.p.m. 1:30-3 p.m. 3:00-5 p.m. 5:00-7:30 p.m. 7:30-10 p.m. lOp.m.-midnight midnight-1 :45 a.m. 
noon-1 :30 p.m. 1:30-3 p.m. 3:00-5 p.m. 5:00-7:30 p.m. 7:30-10 p.m. 10 p.m.-midnight. midnight-1:45 a.m. 
10 a.m.•noon noon-1:30 p.m. 1:30-3 p.m. 
3:06-5 p.m 
5:00-7:30 p.m. 7:30-10 p.m. lOp.m.-midnight midnight-1:45 a.m. 
10 a.m.~noon noons1;30 p.m. J:30-3p.m; 
·3)00~5 p,th.'.' 5:00-7:3Op.m. . 7:30-lOJ),'llf, lOP;M.-1:45 a.m. 
noon-7:30 p.m, 
7:.~()-10.p,$. 
ibp.m;•midnight 
~idn{ght:4t!J5 
. ·.::;_,):f,'".: ,, :,•·ffe.i: ,, 

SUnd.ay 

Nick Wymbs & Jeremy Renteria Coley Lechner & Dave Wilson Pat Suth & John Barnes Joanne Davidson Prank Nash. Jeff Galagher & Jay Smith Jake Teske & Charles Cullen with Angry Al 
1"onday 
Chris Shipley 
Miko Marchand 
Mike Meszaros 
Duke Morris 
Bob Forgash 
Nicole Detorie 

Brian Travers, Paul Stinson & Kevin Bruce 
Mike Dillon & Mike Gonzalez 
Tuesday 

Claire Pistey Jon Alvarez ll2:20 Start) Dave Garland Jim Fitzgerald & Becky Weisenberger Karen Gard John Forgash 
C.J. Murray Ben Alke 

Wednesday 
Kevin Dalum & Dominic Guarnaschnlli 
Chris Kusek 

Tom Dolphin & Darren Madden 
Rob Glynn & Brent Stiefel 
Brian McCabe & Ernie Mancing 
Patrick McKeever 

Dominic Biscuso & Todd Boylan 
Thursday 
William Lewis 

Jon Alvarez (12:20 start) 
Steve Martin 
Ted Fox 
Joe Bonavita 
DJ Joker 
Mike Folopoulos 
Daniel Saracino 
friday 

Dan Garllud . Danny Goodwin ­Dan Fei.ghery (Spider) Dallas Howard, Jenn Gurley & Casey Connelly Adam Koch & Ben Beshalske ~hap.non Grady Automatic Pilot Dance Grooves ­

6oturdriy 
FOOTBALL 

-
Da,yj;l; 8.i:tlczyk &. Dave Bahr 
. Autotna.tie Pilot Dance Grooves MeU$sa Geppert and Stephen Robey 
. . ~ ' . 



¦------....-.-..•­
.,.­

OTHE 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Nine Inch Nails continue 'downward spiral' with Fragile 
with 11 great 
other people rebellious side in production. "We're In By TODD CALLAIS songs and 12 from falling This Together" is an incredible track Scene l\fosic Critic songs hovering apart. with great guitar changes and a cool 
between OK and The second piano ending that demonstratesTrent Reznor, the front-runner and bad. song, "The Day Reznor's diversity and skill. Track six is 
arguably only real member of the Disc one, enti­the World Went the title song. "Fragile," and a great group Nine Inch Nails. is a very talent­tled "Left," is the Awav," will be choice for the album. The song is a bit ed and disturbed individual. better of the two. the band's first slower but seems to set the theme for 
He was trained in classical piano and It starts the single off the the album with lyrics like "I Won't Let learned a great deal of other musical album off beauti­album. It's aver­You Fall Apart." instruments, besides picking up musi­fully with the age but nearly After a good start. the album heads cal production training before releasing song "Somewhat the best song on downward. Of the 15 remaining songs, Pretty Hate \fachine in 1989. The 1992 Damaged," which Fragile. only five are memorable, the best being EP Broken and 1994's The Downward is the epitome of The album then "No You Don't," which is possibly the Spiral gave the band critical acclaim Nine Inch Nails. switches gears best of the album. and a widespread audience. The theme is and brings out The second CD, "Right," was proba­
Reznor is a genius who incorporates quickly estab­highly entertain­bly unnecessary, but is not totally the styles of techno, industrial, blues, lished that ing instrumental unworthy. Actually. it is great study metal. classical and occasionally, rap Fragile is about a transitions music because it is primarily instru­into his music. Nine Inch Nails' new man with serious between songs mental. Notr.: It's not bad. Quite the double album, FragilB, delves further problems that make it contrary. It just doesn't jump out and into mulli-genre tixperimentation. guessing by the stand out as a get you like previous Nir)(l Inch Nails 
01' the five Nine Inch Nails albums. lyrics the main greatly written music. The album as a whole, howfwer, Fragile is the worst.. However. it's still a problem is addic­and produced is very well written and deserves play pretty good buy. One problem with tion -because album. in any stereo. double CDs is there is never a use for the songs are The fourth Fragile is not Nine Inch Nails' best them. What would have been an amaz­about failure, song, "The work, but it is good nonetheless. Give it ing single CD with 11 or 12 cool songs unreached goals Wretched," rep­a try, because it deserves some atten­turned out to be a decent double album and preventing resents Reznor's tion. 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Guster's unique talent found on third release 
a theremin and 
ing in terms of apart" in "So Long" that Guster seems By LISA BRUNO innovative use of the lyrics. This to realize a more serious side to its Scene Music Critic everyday objects is not to say music. This is the type of CD that 
like a typewriter. that Guster has causes listeners to drive somewhere,Run -don't walk -to the nearest The drums offer turned into a anywhere, just to be able to throw it music store and purchase Guster's a driving and con­somber, Cure­in and have a listen. latest offering, Lost and Gone Forever. fident backdrop to like band by Songs like "What You Wish For" and 
The third album from the the creative and any means. It "Fa Fa" are difficult to get out of one's Massachusetts-based acoustic rock 'n' strong lyrics that continues to mind and may cause spontaneous roll band is its best yet. Lost and Gone set Lost and Gone maintain its humming for no apparent reason Forever is a bolder and more reveal­Forever apart somewhat light­other than that they arc just really ing glimpse of this unique and talent­from Gust.er's hearted style catchy and good. ed band. But it is difficult to draw other releases. with tracks like Asid'e from the innovative instru­comparisons to Guster's other music, This is not to dis­"All The Way ments and addictive lyrics, Guster's because after each listen, something count Parachute Up To Heaven," personality is icing on the cake. It is a new is heard. and Goldfly, featuring band who is on the cusp of becoming 
Guster's first album Parachute, though. It just whistling and well-known, yet it maintains a realis­released in 1994, was full of distinct seems that with hand-clapping tic perspective by doing things like .. songs. Goldfly was released in 1998 this album, from special­having a yard sale at the group's and, making a trend out of its variety, Guster is taking guest Guster Boston apartment during the summer offered distinctive music from the first itself a little more contest win­of 1999. Guster creates hope for a bet­album. seriously, but def­ners. ter musical tomorrow that exists with­
This third release continues to initelv not too But it is with out a troop of fashion stylists or chore­demonstrate Custer's strong and seriously. the lyrics like ographers. steady growth as a great band. In Lost The CD, as the "Yes I heard As mentioned earlier, this CD may and Gone Forever, Guster continues to title indicates, is a what you had to prove difficult to find, but it can be distinguish itself musically with its use bit more reflective say and that's ordered from their Web site at of various percussion, instruments like and seems reveal-when it fell www.guster.com. 

Clit~.zen H•na ,,;;,,.: '.. l'.I,•~•'!~~.. ..,
,. ,::::

Loc,lttH5 :t~[t:, jµiit!t~y·, 'ti.i:~~~-,t: t..............·•:,•11 Elton John Joyce Cent .:;' 11 
-

.. 
1 
..• 5 

TL1esday, October 5, 1999 The Observa . SPORTS page 17 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Leiter's two-hitter sends Reds home, Mets to playoffs 
CINCINNATI 
One!' th,iy linally tigurnd out how lo hold a lead over thn llPds. llw :'IIPW York Mnts put thPmsPIVPS in tlw posts1i11son for Liu• firsL time si1wP 1'JK8. 
Al l.<iit.-r pitdwcl II two-hittnr and l;dg-ardo Alfonzo l10mnn1d 011 tl11• sixth pilrh as tlw Mets hPld firm Monday night. beating Cinrinnati :i-0 in a onp-ganrn playolT for ll11• NL wild-card spot. 
BilsPhall's final poslsPaso11 spot 1·.anw down lo a 01111-gam«\ playoff for t lw sPc«md sl.raight war lwcausP tlw MPts rouldn·1 imt away thn HPds. losing s1\vcn in a row al'tt>r upP11i11g a four­gamP !Pad on S,qiL I<). 
Th,• MPLs now travel lo Arizona to opc·n tlw htist-of-5 l'irsl round TLwsd11y night against Dia 111ondbal'ks acn Handy Johnson. Tl11• wi11 meant New· Vork managnr Bobby Vatnntine 's first trip to tile pluy­
olTs, and put the Mnts and Yankt•Ps in LIH! poslseason Logl'lhcr for llw first 1irrn• -Lim Yankc\1is takn on Texas in the AL 
Tlw M11ts' victory also settl11d tlrn otlwr NI. series. It will be llouston at /\Llanta in Game I T1wsday night 
Ldl1\r (l :-1-121. who mulml the Mets' horrilic slump just in tinw hy hrH1ting Atlanta last W1!d1wsday, made sure their load ov11r tlw H11ds would never ht\ jnoparclizml. 
In his most illlJ)()rtant start sim:e Game 7 of tlm 1q97 World Series for Florida, the left-han­der pitched his first complete game of the year. He did not allow a runner past first base until l'okP,y Heesc~ doubled to slar-t the~ ninth. Jeffrey Ilammonds singled in the sec­ond for thn HPcls' othnr hit. 
Lnit11r struck out snvon. walked four and rntired B con­s nc u tivn batl(lrs during one stretch, giving tho Hods no opP.ning for another magical comeback. 
Cincinnati's altmnµt to nicknl­and-dinw its way into the play­offs with Lim big-budget teams foll 11al in front of Urn Rods' sec­und-biggPst r,rowd of tlw soa­son. Thn Heels were shut out for only tlw third timn this snason and the first time since April 30. 
The $J:i million Reds won 96 games -their hnst total since the Big Heel Mad1inc was rolling in the mid-'?Os -hut couldn't gnl that one linal win. 
lustnad of Ohio fans dreaming about an 1-71 S!H'ies with Clcvr.land, the New Yorkers can go hack to speculating about that Subway Series with the Yankees. 
Given a second chance to make the playoffs, the Mets showed up loose and relaxed and quickly muted the capacity cniwd of' 54,621. The cheers turnnd into gasps when Hickey 1lenderson led off the game with a sharp single to left and Alfonzo followed with a long drive to center on Steve Parris' sixth pitch. 

Jeffrey Hammonds turned. franchise's first playoff berth headed towards the warning · since 1988 was back in their track and appeared to have a control. chance for the catch, but the The crowd was buzzing again ball sliced through the damp, in the third when manager Jack raw air and slammed off the soft McKeon made an uncharacteris­gray background beyond the tically hasty pitching change. wall for Alfonzo's 27th homer. The Mets loaded the bases with 
The Mets jumped and pumped two outs on Alfonzo's walk, their fists as they headed for the John Olerud's soft double to dugout railing as Alfonzo round­right and an intentional walk to ed the bases, sensing that the Mike Piazza. 
Parris (11-4) flinched in disap­pointment and dropped his head when pitching coach Don Gullett came out to make a change, calling on left-hander Denny Neagle to make only his second relief appearance since 1993. 
Neagle. who threw 100 pitch­es Friday in a loss at Milwaukee, walked Robin Ventura on a full­count pitch to make the move backfire. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m, to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds musr be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
LOST & FOUND  WANTED: 1 or 2 Jr. or Senior classwomen to host 2 highschool senior girls wanling to  TUTORS needed tor college & high school students in Algebra & Intermediate Algebra. Also need tutors for general help/review in  ENTIRE HOME FOR FOOTBALL WEEKENDS 2773097 NICE FURNISHED HOMES FOR  SELL & BUY GA FOOTBALL TICK· ETS 277-6619  Will trade 2 ASU or Navy or BC GA's for 2 USC. Will sell Tenn/ASU/Navy/BC tix. 607-336-7218  
FOUND:  see Notre Dame, hoping to  Eng.,Sociology, Psychology. Call  NOW OR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR  FOR SALE  
CHANGE PURSE ON SMC CAM­ attend.Time starts wilh lunch at  Linda at 272-8235 or emaiHwaelch·  2773097  ASU tix.  2 STUD. TICKET BKLTS 4 SALE.  
PUS ON MONDAY, 10/4. CALL 631-5873 TO IDENTIFY.  University Club Friday October 15 at noon, with a post-pep rally dinner  li@datacruz.com  6BDRM$150 person.272-6306  BEST$$ AM -232-2378  CALL X3941 OR X1208  
WANTED  at Carriage House.Includes all day "tailgate" Saturday in Joyce South & any incidental expenses.Other plans welcomed.Contact 219-287­ FOR RENT ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE  FOR SALE  PM · 288-2726 ND football tix for sale. AM -232-2378  2 ARIZONA GA'S FOR SALE. CALL KRISTEN @ 4 13-567 -084 1 .  
1405. leave message.  HOME FOR  Spring Break Specials!Bahamas  PM -288-2726  2 ASU GA for sale, face value. 716­ 
STUDENT OPENINGS  ND-SMC EVENTS.  Party Cruise 5 Days $279! Includes  667-6665.  
5-30 hrs.tweak. Flex. around  Browse icpt.com for Springbreak  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  Meals1  I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME  
classes.  "2000". ALL destinations  243-0658.  Awesome  GAMES.2726551  
Scholarships avail. www.workforstudents.com/lN  offered.Trip Participants.Student Orgs & Campus Sales Reps want­ HOMES CLOSE TO CAMPUS  Beaches,Nightlife!Cancun & Jamaica 7 Nights From $399!  BUYING and SELLING ND FOOT­ PERSONAL  
282-2357  ed.Fabulous parties.hotels &  http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/  Florida  BALL TICKETS.  
prices.Call Inter-Campus 800-327­ 232-2595  $129!springbreaktravel.com  GREAT PRICES. CALL 289-8048  FAX IT FAST!!!  
Spring Break '00  6013  1 ·800-678-6386  Sending & Receiving  
Cancun.Mazatlan or Jamaica  THAT PRETTY PLACE,  FOR SALE  at  
From $399  REFEREES  Bed and Breakfast Inn has space  FOR SALE  N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS  THE COPY SHOP  
Reps wanted! Sell 15 and travel  available for footbalVparent wknds.  N.D. FOOTBALL TIX  CALL271-9412  LaFortune Student Center  
free!  REFEREES NEEDED FOR BAS­ 5 Rooms with private baths, $80­ CALL 271-9412  Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1  
LOWEST PRICES GUARAN­ KETBALL & !NLINE HOCKEY.  $115, Middlebury, 30 miles from  SPRING BREAK 2000  FAX IT FAST!!!  
TEED!!! lnfo:Call 1-800-446-8355  THIS IS A TREMENDOUS OPPORTUNITY TO EARN GOOD  campus. Toll Road Exit #107, 1­800-418-9487.  FOR SALE N.D. FOOTBALL TIX  "THE MILLENrUM" A NEW DECADE ... NCE IN TRAV­ ..  
www.sunbreaks.com  MONEY, MEET NEW PEOPLE, &  CALL 271-9412  EL.FREE TRIPS.FREE  
HAVE FUN'  EXPERIENCE HELP­ LOADED  MEALS!JAMAICA,CANCUN,FLORI  AUSTRALIA!  
DON"T WORK THIS SCHOOL YEAR! $1200 T0'$2000 THIS  FUL. BUT WE WILL TRAIN EVERYBODY. CONTACT THE  6 Bedrm '00-01 yr. 273-0482 I 234-3831  Phone Cards, 669 min/$20 2 43-9361 or 258-4805  DA,BARBAOOS,BAHAMAS.SIGN UP BY NOV. 5 FOR 2 FREE TRIPS  SUMMER /WINTERIINTER­SHIPS/SEMESTER PROGRAMS  
MONTH.  Part time 4 to 6 hours per  RECSPORTS OFFICE-BRAN•  ANO FREE MEALS!  www.study-australia.com  
week. Call 24 hrs  DON LEIMBACH OR JEFF WALK­ Beautiful Home. 5 bedrooms, two  Beautiful brass bed.queen size.with  1800-426-7710  Contact chris@study-australia.com  
(219) 239-6709 SPORTS CLUBS & STUDENT  ER@ 631-6100, OR STOP BY THE OFFICE IN THE ROLFS SPORTS RECREATION CENTER  bathrooms Brand new stove, refrig· erator, dishwasher, washer and dryer. Alarm. Attached garage.  orthopedic mattress set and deluxe frame.New.never used.still in plas• tic.$235 219-862-2082  WWW.SUNSPLASHTOURS.COM WANTEO:USCTIX  Hi Sean. I forgot to warn you aboul this one.  
GROUPS­ TODAY.  REFEREE MEETINGS  Fenced yard. Immaculate condition.  247-1659  
Earn $1000-2000 with easy CIS Fund event.No sales required.Fund Rasier days are tilling up, so call  WILL TAKE PLACE IN THE ROLFS SPORTS REC. CENTER MEET­ING ROOM ON WED. 10/6 AT 6PM  675.0776 8 bedroom house. 2 baths.  MAC 520 Powerbook-Y2K cornpli· ant-$350. Stylewriter printer $75. Both seldom used 287-7928  ND MOM NEEDS 11 ARIZ. STATE GA'S. PLEASE CALL  It's live! It's rock & roll! Come see  
today.Contact Joe @ 1-888-522­ FOR HOCKEY AND AT 7PM FOR  Completely renovated  ND Ave.  1-800-447-1200, THEN  
4350.  BASKETBALL.  675.0776  Computer parts.  PRESS 2-2242. CALL WILL BE  Art  
Computer service.  RETURNED ASAP.  
Loving ND-SMC couple wishes to  5/6 BDRM HOMES."00-01YR 272­ Fast, friendly, cheap.  &  
adopt, Will provide a lifetime of  Free One Bedroom Apartment in  6551  220-7633 220-7734.  Need sets of two or four tickets for  
laughter,love,devotion and opportu• nilles 800·484-4699 code 0019  Historic Home 1.5 miles from Campus. A family with three children seeks  BED AND BREAKFAST Your "home away from home" for  www.247solution.com 85 OLDS CUTLASS GOOD LOCAL  Navy or USC games. Call Brian at 634-3346.  the Artichokes This Friday, 10pm  - 
TO OUR 4 AM INQUIRER. ALL INFO KEPT IN TOTAL CONFI·  tun.energetic.outstanding student or graduate to live in charming aparlment for FREE in exchange  football and other ND events.Private home 5 min. from campus.Queen & twin beds.private  TRANSPORTATION $750 OBO 675-9735  FOR SALE: ASU TIX. 271-9331  at Heartland Kate, how's the TB? We haven't  
DENCE. PLEASE CALL BACK ANYTIME. OUR PRAYERS ARE WITH YOU.  for mutually agreed upon babysit­ting responsibilities that include some  baths,& extras. Call 219-272-9471,  TICKETS  NEED FOOTBALL TIX FOR ARI­ZONA GAME  heard about thal lately. Mary and Lester Jenkins .. 4-eva!  
evenings,overnights,as well as trav·  Sublet: Roomy one bedroom  CALL JACK AT  
Nude Male models needed lor stu•  el Send cover lelter,resume and ref­ Campus View apartment $385.00  WANTED NOTRE DAME FOOT­ 219-257-1141  Join the 227 fan club, MWF watch  
dent Art film Mere: 247-1810  erences to Nanny Search,P.O,Box 652.Notre Dame.IN 46556  monthly. Call Stacy at Campus View or John Hill at 683-5699 days; 616/782-3314  BALL TICKETS 271-1526  For SALE 2 tixs all games 272­6306  BET trom 7-9 p.m. Lots of laughs and good friends. Come to Reckers.  

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, October 5, 1999 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Chicago fires Riggeleman after five seasons 
Associated Pre« 
CHICAGO 
Jim Riggleman stood in street clothes, .sipping a soda at the far end of the Chicago Cubs' club­house Monday, calmly answer­ing questions and accepting responsibility for a season that cost him his job. 
Riggleman's five-year run as manager ended Monday. He was fired, one dav after the encl of a horrendous season that saw the Cubs go from 90 wins and the playoffs to 95 losses and last place. 
The disaster was certainly not all Riggleman's doing. 
But he made no excuses. he pointed no fingers, he displayed no bitterness shortly after gen­eral manager Ed Lynch gave him the news. 
"It comes down to you got to win ballgames and we didn't win enough," Riggleman said. 
"l got nobody to blame. I think everybody has to be account­able. I'm accountable and this is lhe result of wins and losses." 
Not even Sammy Sosa's 63 homers could save the Cubs, who finished 67-95, the second worst record in the National League and the team's worst since 1980, not counting the strike years of 1981 and 1994. 
Riggleman had a 374-419 record with the Cubs, including two 90-game losers and one 90­game winner in the last three seasons. 
"We didn't get it done," Riggleman said. "I guarantee you there were a lot of people around baseball who probably said, 'How in the hell has that guy k,ept ~s_J.ob as many games ashes lost' 
Riggleman, who managed two seasons in San Diego before coming to Chicago, couldn't stop a slide that began in early June when the Cubs were nine games over .500 and in second place in the NL Central. Chicago won only 26 of 77 games after the All-Star break. 
There were injuries, then· was bad pitching, there were poor performances all around for a team that began the sea­son with a $60 million payroll. 
"We underachieved as a team. The numbers don't lie," said Lynch, who decided to fire Riggleman about a week ago. 
'Tm not going to point fingers at Jim Riggleman. Sometimes it is necessary to change the per­ception or attitude or the direc­tion of the club down in the clubhouse. And that's what I'm trying to do," Lynch added. 
"I deserve a lot of the blamp, for what has happened here, and I accept that." 
The Cubs offered Riggleman the chance to work in their minor league operations. He said he would consider it but hopes to manage again. 
"I'd love to manage," he said. "If a good opportunity comes up, I would jump at it. I had a good opportunity here, and it didn't work out." 
First baseman Mark Grace came to Wrigley Field on Monday to say goodbye to 
Riggleman. 
"It's not his fault or the staffs. It's the guy:; between the lines, from Sammy to myself to the 25th guy,'' Grace said. "We failed him." 
The team also fired four coaches and said Hall of Famer and ex-Cub Billy Williams, the bench coach with Riggleman, will be interviewed for the man­ager's job. 
Chicago's starting rotation that was a big part of the suc­cess a year ago fell apart in 1999, starting in spring training when Rookie of the Year Kerry Wood blew out his elbow. StevP Trachsel, a 15-game winner, became an 18-game loser in 1999; and staff ace Kevin Tapani, who won 19 games a year ago, was hit by injuries, finishing the season on the dis­abled list \\ith a 6-12 record. 
And veteran players who helped the Cubs to the playoffs in 1998 couldn't match their performances of a season ago ­namely Lance Johnson, Mickey Morandini and Gary Gaetti. For the second straight season, Jeff Blauser was a non-factor. 
Riggleman said he contributed to personnel decisions and accepted his role in bringing back the veterans who faded. 
"I probably did evaluating with my heart rather than my brain over last winter," Riggleman said. 
"We knew everybody wasn't going to come back and have a big year. but we didn't know which ones weren't, so we pret­ty much brought them all back. 
... It just wasn't there anymore." 
Also fired were pitching coach Marty DeMerritt, third base coach Tom Gamboa and first base coach Dan Radison, although the Cubs said they would be considered for posi­tions after a new manager is hired. Bullpen coach Dave Bialas also was firnd but will be offered another position. Hitting coach Jeff Pentland will be retained. 
Counting Joe Altobelli, who managed one game, the 46­year-old Riggleman was the Cubs' sixth manager in the 1990s. 

Professor YAFFA ELIACH 
Distinguished author of "Tales of the Holocaust" and ''There Once Was A World" 

Sponsored by the Notre Dame Holocaust Project with support from the Kurt and Tessye Simon Fund for Jewish Studies 
MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER 

Tuesday, October 5, 1999 
7:00 PM University of Notre Dame Lower Level, Continuing Education 
Meet Representatives from: 
• 
Investment Banking 

• 
Private Wealth Management 


-
www.msdw.com/campus/recruiting 
Morgan Stanley Dean Witter is an Equal Opportunity Employer 
Tuesday, October 5, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
M. Soccer 
continued from page 28 
thn only rnpPat goal-scorer for tlH1 squad lliis season. 
Senior forward !\ndrnw Aris has contimwd to bn a pivotal player 011 tlw Irish front lino this snason. Utilizing his playmaking caµahilities, he leads the team with four assists. 
"On olfonsP, our game is really starling lo click." Maio said. "Thn dl'l"nnse has bmin playing wtill as a ttHtm all yt\ar and now it lwlps that overything is work­ing for us on lhf' liPld " 
Tlw int-rr•asod potPncy of' the Irish atta<'.k has taknn some prPssm·p off Notn\ I)amn's bar.k­lidd. 
"Any linw you oµnn up the spr<iad you lakt~ snrnn of the prnssun· off." Maio said. "It makes it Mtsi1ff for both the dnfnnsn and tlw olfonsn -both sidtis work to l11:Iµ each otlu,r." 
lUPUI comns to Notrn Damn boasting a 6-:~-1 rncord against tho t<ntghnst schedule in the 
NFL 
team's history. In only their sec­ond year as a Division I team in tlrn Mid-Continent conference, thP Jaguars have alrnady bested their 1998 record of 4-13-0. 
Leading the pack for the Jaguars is junior Thins Hermann al the forward position. Ilcrmann led the squad last sea­son with a team-high seven goals and continues to be a dom­inating force on offense this vear. Considered as one of the top forwards in tlrn league by IUPLII head coach Steve Franklin, llermann will try to take a dominating role on the riHld against the Irish.In the backfield, tho Jaguar defense is round"d out by sophomorn goal­keep1ir Armando l;cmia. 
Femia has allowBd seven goals oV<!r ·10 games and has come up big wiLh four shutout victories. Billed as one of the top keepers in Urn confernncn and possibly the nation by Franklin, Femia has shown he is capable of read­ing th(\ opponent's attack well. 
The Irish will have to be in top form to mntinue putting the hall in the net against the Jaguars. 

Bronco's Davis to miss season 
Turnovers lead to 
A.ssociaced Press 
DENVER 
Tcrrnll Davis. the NFL's MVP last ynar, will miss the rest of the season bncause of a knee injury, a devastating blow to a championship team already re1\ling from four straight loss­es. 
Tlw f)(,11vc1r Broncos' running hack tori' ligaments and carti­lage in his right knee while making a tack(<1 Sunday during Llw !irsl quart(1r of a 21-13 loss to llw New York Jnts. 
"I lalkPd to him and he's in as goocl as spirits as Im could 
possibly be in," coach Mike Shanahan said today. «l-lc's working through it right now." 
Davis is expected to be out four to six months and make a full recovery. 
"Hight now, with the ACL and the advancements they've made in technology, you never know for sure," Shanahan said. 
The coach said Derck Lovilln will start in place of Davis. This is the third season he has backed up Davis. 
Shanahan, whose winless ttiam is clearly diminished by the retirement of John Elway, will also review his quarter-

e Find Out What's ••• a Master's Degree in HeaJth Care Management. 

October 26, 1999 4:30-5:15 pm, Presentation in the 
• Nieuwland Science Hall 
Room 118 
5:15 -6:30 pm, Reception in the Nieuwland Science Hall 
Room 118 
You'll learn why a masters degree in health care management is a great thing to get, and why Rush University is a great place to get it. 
For more inform;:ition call 1-888-352-RUSH. 
~~ HEALTH SYSTEMS 
~ MANAGEMENT 
RUSH UNIVERSITI' CHICAGO 
backs. Brian Griese, who replaced Bubby Brister during preseason, threw three inter­
Buffalo win, 23-18 
ceptions Sunday. Brister entered late in the fourth quarter and threw two inter­
Associated Press 

ceptions. Davis, who led the NFL in 
MIAMI 
The Buffalo Bills' def'cnse yards, has been off to a slow 
rushing last season with 2,008 
did all the stomping Monday start. lie was hurt during an 
night against the Miami interception return by Jets 
Dolphins. safety Victor Green. 
Buffalo harried Dan Broncos offensive tackle Matt 
Marino into three turnovers Lepsis made a diving tackle to 
and scored on Gabe cut down Green at the sideline, 
Northern's 59-yard fumble but Lepsis also caught Davis, 
return to beat Miami 23-18. trailing the play slightly, on his 
The victory avenged the right knee. Bills' 24-17 loss at Miami in 
last season's playoffs. After that game, Dolphins coach Jimmy Johnson celebrated in the locker room by stomp­ing on a box of Flutie Flakes. 
Linebacker John Holecek
Help bring 
led the defensive charge by the Bills (3-1), while the loss by the Dolphins (2-1) left the NFL with three undefeated teams. The Bills had lost five 
theworld 
together 
consecutive games in Miami. After Buffalo took a 23-12 lead on Steve Christie's third
Hostan 
field goal with 6:56 left. Miami's Brock Marion
exchange 
returned the ensuing kickoff 93 yards to the 4. O.J.
student. 
McDuffie then caught a 9­yard touchdown pass from 
e 
~ Marino, the first touchdown allowed by the Bills' defense in 13 quarters. . . The Dolphins got the ball 
back with 2:59 to go, but 
Ombracing I.be season, 
. 
~,,.· . ·-· 
.,,.,,,.\/I·, 
,: ~ 
Marino threw four consecu­tive incompletions from the Miami 43. He finished 22­for-44 for 251 yards with two interceptions and two sacks, his first of the year. 
Doug Flutie went 12-for­25 for 186 yards and added 29 yards rushing. 
The teams traded field goals before the Bills' defense broke a 6-6 tie late in the first half. 
Holecek came through free on a blitz and blindsided Marino to jar the ball loose. Northern scooped it up, escaped the grasp of Miami's Cecil Collins and then ran untouched 59 yards for a touchdown. 
Holecek returned an inter­ception of Marino 35 yards to set up Christie's final field goal, a 31-yarder. He also hit from 26 and 52 yards. 
The Dolphins closed to 13­12 early in the fourth quar­ter, but Buffalo responded with an 80-yard touchdown drove. Flutie hit Eric Moulds for 40 yards, then hit him again for the 6-yard score and a 20-12 lead. 
The Dolphins' first score came after Flutie fumbled a snap and Miami's Shawn Wooden recovered at the 
-
Buffalo 41. Four plays later, Olindo Mare kicked a 30­yard field goal. 

while indulging in the festivity of the harvest. Sorin's introduces dining in the true spirit of Notre Dame. "'-1, Presenting menus that compliment the fall season '\ with the finest foods it has to offer. Be our guest ./{;t Sorin's and celebrate a change in dining. \Visit us within The Morris Inn. 
-

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, October 5, 1999 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Lyons routs Welsh 20-6 to clinch playoff berth 
By STEVE DILLENBURGER 
Spons Writer Lyons comP.back effort on 
gear as it scored 20 points in the second half on its way to victory. Megan Chandler opened the Lyons' scoring fol­lowing a Lisa Thomas run that PE in their season finale on Tuesday. Welsh takes its 2-2 record to face Lewis in a must win game far both teams. 
The Pyros would add another touchdown in the second half, and the Wild Women were not able to respond. PE's defense kept up its pressure and the again. The Chicks went into halftime leading 6-0. 
Then in the second half the Weasel defense took the job of scoring upon themselves. 

Sunday gave it a 20-6 victor} put the Lyons within two yards offense was able to move the Karen Goodwin intercepted a
Pasquerilla East 20, Walsh 0 
over Welsh and -more impor­of the end zone. Thomas would ball as they improved to 4-0 on Chick pass and returned it to
Pasquerilla East crushed 
tantly ~ a return to the play­follow with the one-point con­the season. the 15-yard line. PW's Kori
another upset bid as it cruised 
offs. version to put Lyons ahead for The Wild Women fell to 1-3 Yelle tied up the game with a
past Walsh 20-0 on Sunday.
On their opening drive of the good. and desperately need a win touchdown, which set up a crit­
The Pyro offense and defense
first half the Lions found them­A few minutes later, Chandler against the Purple Weasels of ical conversion play.
were simply too much for the
selves facing a fourth-and-one caught another touchdown pass PW to make the playoffs. It appeared that PW was
Wild Women. 
at midfield. Lyons attempted to to extend the Lions' lead. Then going to take the lead when a
The PE defense intercepted 
pass for the first down but it as time was winding down, Weasel ended up in the end
Walsh on its first drive at the Lewis 7, Pasquerilla West 6 
was intercepted by Welsh's Katie Yanez took a pitch 20 zone only to have it called back
10-yard line and three plays After Lewis jumped out to a 
Vanessa Lichin and returned vards !'or the third Lvons touch-because of an illegal procedure
later PE was in the end zone. 6-0 lead, PW stormed back for
40 yards for the game's first down of Lhe half. • penalty.
On the ensuing Walsh drive, a 7-6 victory and renewed its 
score. "We've been looking for this Then Lewis followed suit with
the wild women were forced to playoff hopes. 
Welsh preserved its 6-0 lead all season, but right now we a pass interference to set up a
punt and a few plays later Pyro Lewis" Virginia Brisley ran 
for the rest of the first half but have to get ready for PE," third attempt. The third chance
quartuback Elizabeth for a touchdown to put Lewis
the second halt' would be a Chandler said about her feel­ended with Amanda Gallen
Plummer delivered a bullet to up early as il looked like PW's
much different story. ings on making the playoffs. scoring the critical point to give
put PE up 14-0. offense was going to struggle
The Lyons olTense kicked into The Lions play the Pyros of PW the 7-6 win. 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Yankees try to live up to 1998 standards in 1999 playoffs 
and went on to sweep the World Hangers, New York's first-round two teams before dropping three straight playoff games against
Associated Press 
Series. Come Tuesday night, opponent for the second straight of the last five this year. To Texas since losing the opener of when the Yankees open their year, is that they aren't intimi­advance beyond the first round their series in 19%.
NEW YORK division series with the Texas dated anymore by New York. for the first time in club history, "It's important for us not to
Not matching last year's 
Rangers, that all changes. "The Yankees had a sense of the Rangers need to win three of get caught up in the past fewrecord-setting team in the regu­"There were times this vear invincibility last year," Todd the next five as well. series or the last three or fourlar season was expected for the when we let down a bit," David Zeile said. "They were the best Last year they couldn't do years," manager Johnny OatesNew York Yankees. Not doing it Cone said. "This is lhe time we team in the history of the game. that. They brought one of the. said. "We're trying to talk aboutin the postseason is a totally dif­have to step it up. The fact is, They are still a good club, but best offenses in the game to the our guys focusing on the oppor­ferent matter. 
we did rise to the occasion when we are confident playing against playoffs, and ended up scoring tunity as opposed to the obsta­
The Yankees spent the last 
we had to. Hopefully. that bodes them." just one run and hitting .141 in cle. Sometimes you start lookingseven months avoiding compar­well for the playoffs." The Yankees had won 27 of 35 the three-game sweep. at the obstacle and it becomesisons to the 1998 squad that What bodes well for the Texas overall meetings between the Overall, New York has won six too big to overcome." 
won an AL-record 114 games 
er 6
-
good ree food es LaFortune 
fee 
-
be there!
www.nd.edu/"'Sub 


Tuesday, October 5, 1999 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 

• 
Assurance 
Tax 
Consulting 

Choosing the right career option can have you 
going around in circles. Give your career the 
right spin. At KPMG, you'll find opportunity for 
growth and recognition. 

For more information, check out: 
www.kpmgcampus.com 
Career choices got you spinning? 

It's time for clarity."' 
-

©1999 by KPMG LLP, the U.S. member firm of KPMG International. We are an equal opportunity employer m/1/d/v. 
-

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, October 5, 1999 
• 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
DePaul's second-half TD leads Phoxes over Finest, 7-0 
By JASON KROMPINGER Sporn Writer 
Utilizing a big play on offense nnd some very tenacious defense, Pangborn pulled out a 7-0 vit.:tory over Farley on a rainy Sunday on McGlinn fields. 
The Pangborn defense made its presence l'elt from the first series of the game. Following a first down picked up by the flnest on their first play from scrimmage, the Phoxes sacked Farley quarterback Meghan Sheehan on the next two plays and pick her o!T on third down. 
Pangborn quarterback and captain Jill DePaul, however, fared no better on her opening possession. Two short comple­tions went for minimal gain, and an incompletion on fourth down turned the ball back over to Parley. · 
The teams traded possession the rmtire first half, with Farlev punting two more times and Pangborn turning the ball over on downs twice due to some timely tackles by Farley captain Jen Ross. 
"Our defense stuck it out, as usual," DePaul said. 
DePaul showed off some speed and scored the only points of the game on Pangborn's first play from scrimmage of the second half. On a quarterback draw, DePaul appeared not to be keyed by any Farley linebacker and sprinted unt01,1.ched 80 yards for a touchdown. 
The Phoxes' defense held tough the rest of the game and Pangborn had its first victory. Farley's record fell to 1-4. 
BP 13, Cavanaugh 6 
In a battle between two red­hot teams, Breen Philips pulled off a stellar victory to boost its record to 4-0 and all but assure itself a playoff spot, as Breen­Phillips defeated Cavanaugh 13­6. 
Some picture-perfect passing by Chaos quarterback :vtapdy Reimer on her opening drive of the game made it appear that Cavanaugh would have an easy day on offanse. With passes to the receiver rotation of Meg Myers and Melissa Marcotte, Reimer drove through the BP defense without a dropped ball. 
The Chaos scored quickly and went up 6-0 before quarterback Jenny Choy and the Babes offense had stepped on to the field. 
The Babes would strike back on their first possession, but not with the same grace as the Chaos. After Choy drove the team down to Cavanaugh's 30, the defense was hampered by a couple of interference penalties, bringing the bait down to the five. 
From there, Choy hit receiver Erin West for a touchdown. The Babes converted the point after touchdown, and led 7-6 at the half. 
Cavanaugh's offense would never regain the poise it showed on its opening possession. The increased slickness of the field due to the rain caused more dropped passes and broken plays. Breen Philips was able to take advantage of Cavanaugh's miscues and scored in the third quarter on a pass from Choy to receiver Karen Swanson. 
Two late game comeback attempts by Cavanaugh were killed by interceptions. · 
Badin 6, Howard 2 
By 5 p.m. Sunday, the rain was coming down in buckets on the Notre Dame campus. ~ 
By 6 p.m., the Badin Frogs had stunned the Howard Ducks by pulling off a messy 6-2 victory and handing them their first loss ofthe season. 

Badin concentrated on its run­ning game early on -unusual in a flag-football league -and emerged with limited success. Neither team seemed to really be able to get any solid earth under its feet, and a decent run bv Badin was usually followed with a stuff by the Howard defense. 
After a scoreless first half, which can be attributed more to the driving rain than anything else, Badin struck early in the fourth quarter on a quick pass over the middle that went 55 yards for a score. 
The real controversy of the game came on the conversion attempt by Badin. On the attempt, a Howard player picked off the Badin pass and began to scamper toward the end zone. 
The referees blew the whistle shortly after the ball was inter­cepted, as they were unaware that a conversion can be returned by the opposing team for two points should the oppos­ing team reach the end zone. 
Despite the whistle, the 
Howard player returned the ball the distance, thinking that she had two points for her team. An argument erupted, but the refer­ees continued the game with the score 6-0 Badin. 
Later in the fourth, a RecSports official explained the rule to the official and in a bizarre call, the referee awarded the Ducks two points despite ini­tially having blown the play dead. 
Despite the controversial offici­ating, Badin hung on for the vic­tory. 


Tuesday, Ocroher 5, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
W.Soccer 
continued from page 28 
With rncr:nt wins coming against lossur opponnnts, Waldnun anlicipaWs a challeng­ing test for his squad. 
"I think it will bP a VPry diffi­cu It ganrn." Waldrum said. 
region. A win would have con­siderable implications on NCM tournament seedings at seasons' end. An Irish win or loss today could potentially mean a couple of spots difference in the end of the year seeding brackets. 
"That docs make it more important," Waldrum said. "You always want to get a jump on teams from your own part uf the 
London Program? 
Remember you can apply via the WWW See our Web application at http://www.nd.edu/-londonpr 
country." 
The surging Irish offensive attack will be led by senior for­ward Jenny Heft. whose five goals this past weekend left her just five tallies short of Monica Gerardo's school record of 73 career goals. 
Captain .Jen Grubb, the defending Big East Defensive Player of the Week, will anchor the midfield along with Anne Makinen who recently returned to the squad after concluding her involvement with the Finnish national team. 
The Irish know that to effec­tively handle the Wolverines, they will need to continue to spread the scoring around, in an effort to prevent the Wolverine defense from keying in 011 one or two players. The recent strong play of Meotis Erikson should allow for Notre Dame to do just that. Erikson regained her scoring touch over the weekend to give the Irish yet another offensive threat. 
"It's definitely key that we get everyone involved and move the ball around," Grubb said. "We all have to be ready to play and come out hard." 
Notre Dame's offensive arse­nal will be complemented by the "Tlwy [Michigan! are very good up front. They're quick and tal­ented and they rnaUy possess the ball well. We've seen a lot of them on video and they're a strong team." 
play of All-American goalkeeper  ....  
LaKeysia Beene, who is pre­ 
pared for a busy afternoon after  
seeing relatively lit1.le action in  
the team's last two dominating  
performances.  
The Wolverines onter today's  
action sporting an 8-2-1 record,  
and are coming off an easy 4-1  
win over conference rival the  
Purdue Boilermakers,  
Michigan's offensive attack will  
be sparked by freshmen for­ 
ward Abby Crumpton, who  
leads the team with six goals.  
Like the Irish, the Wolverines  
boast a strong net minder in  
Carissa Stewart, who started  
each of her team's outings and  
has already posted four  
shutouts.  
With the Irish women playing  
their third game in a matter of  
five days, one would think that  
fatigue might be a factor, but  
Coach Waldrum says that's not  
tho case.  
"I don't really think fatigue  - 
will be an issue," he said. "We  
were able to get most of our  
players some rest this past  
weekend, and I think Michigan  
is in the same situation we are  
Ihaving played three games in  
five days]. I t~.ink it's a fairly  
even match up.  


Adding significance to today's showdown -the third uf a four­game home stand -is the fact that Mir:higan and Notre Dame lie in the sanrn geographic 

Considering the 
CLUB SPORTS 

Equestrian rides to victory at Taylor U. 
first in both shows in the

Special to The Observer 
Advanced Walk/Trot/Canter class.
The Equestrian Club finished 
In her first show Laura
its first two regular shows of the Anderson took home a third and season at Taylor University of a first place finish in Beginningthe season with a reserve high Walk/froVCanter while Dianapoint finish on Saturday and a Mestej followed up a second
high point finish on Sunday. 
place finish on Saturday with aJulie Kremer finished first in first place finish on Sunday in
both days in the Walk/Trot 
the Open Flat competition. 
class. Betsy Kahl also finished 
r.. 
w 
.,..-.1 
I r·:1 ' 
-


I( 
' 
k,~, 
i'·'
•:'r
I''
'', I,,'.. 
,, 
1-,:t 
I rt
I 
:i:-4 
~., 1 -1.l
~ 

-
Buy a Coca-Cola8 classic from any specially marked on-campus vending machine and you could win a commemorative Coca-Cola® classic/NFL T-Shirt*. 
-

•specially marl<ed packaging available in specially marked vending machines until 11/30/99 or while supplies last. No purchase necessary. Requests for free 
game piece must be received by 12/28/99. see Bpecialiy marl<ed vending maehlnes for details or call 1•800-785-2653. 019811 Thll coc.ai..c;a. Oomo,arry. ~0oca-0o1a~ and tNi Aed Olak Icon are~traaemarM Of Th-.,. CQCII-Qola company. 
• 

page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, October 5, ] 999 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Whirlwind, Chicks fight for playoff berths tonight 
motivated," Hak said. PW defeated Lewis 7 -6 Sunday on defense. the conversion to go up by one. By STEVE KEPPEL to gain its first win. The victory The Purple Weasels were "This is a must win game and 
Sports Wrirer 
When Welsh (2-2) takes on Lewis tonight the Whirlwind could be fighting for a playoff berth. 
Going into Sunday's game against Lyons, Welsh was 2-l and could wrap up a playoff spot. It appeared that Welsh would easily clinch a postseason berth when it quickly scored the lirst points of the game off an interception returned for a touchdown. But after that open­ing score, everything seemed to go downhill. 
"We didn't play any where near our potential," captain
·­
Katie Rak said 
The offense gave up four turnovers and the defense gave up 20 points in the second half. The collapse could be attributed to a lack of practicing. 
"We didn't practice at all between the last two games," Rak sa.id. 
When they lake on Lewis, Welsh plans on being more pre­pared. 
"We had practice on Monday and I think we'll be a little more 
Pasquerilla East vs. Lyons 
An undefeated PE will face off against Lyons tonight in the last game of the regular season for both teams. 
The two-time defending cham­p.ion Pyros come into the game undefeated and are led by fifth­year senior quarterback Elizabeth Plummer. 
PE is coming otT a 20-0 victory over Walsh and is not looking past Lyons this week. 
"We still have things to work on and are still looking to improve," captain Anna Benjamin said. 
The defense of the Pyros is also looking strong as of late. Against Walsh they were led by Donata Perillo's two intercep­tions and did not yeild a first down. 
Lyons is also coming off an impressive victory, lieating Welsh 20-6. 
Walsh vs. Pasquerilla West 
PW (1-2-1) is looking desper­ately for a playoff birth. They can accomplish this goal by beating Walsh tonight. 
GOLF 
Ratay paces Irish 
in Intercollegiate 
round but slipped to fourth in Special to The Observer 
the afternoon while the Irish used a 294 to remain in second,
Irish sophomore Steve Ratay 
just one stroke behind 
holds a two-stroke lead on the Louisville. 
field while Notre Dame is one shot out of first place, following two rounds of action Monday at the annual Legends of Indiana lntercollegiate. 
Ratay was tied for fourth in the 80-player field after carding a one-under 71 in the morning round before posting a 70 in the afternoon for a 141 total and a two-shot lead. 
Notre Dame claimed second place in Monday's 16-team field after the morning round, with a 296 in the play-five, count-four format. Ohio University held a four-shot lead after the opening 
r-----------------------, 

I ,,.,,, 
NOTRE DAME : ! SUPEII DISCOUNT: : 
-: 8 920 OFF: 
: 0N ANY SPA!;
I l.4111 aTEl Arailable to afl students and Parents with this coupon. I I _.,._______.,. (No ID Required) I 
: 'I.\' ® Valid S1nd"y -T/Jur,d1y • Ht r1/id for Sp«ial Ere11ts: 
L _____ !_O~t!_:i'.!.7.:_ !3'3_5_!!!._3'!_: H~ ~•~I~•_:_7::_9:!!°J
.. 
• Free Continental Breakfast 0~ 1,', 
• Free HBO, CNN, ESPN -,..~~~'80~ 

• Free local Call, Fax_ 0te, ~'l!-~ 
• Kitchenettes ~-<\\i ,C-'=' 
'\),1, 
~'b-(; 
Must present coupon 
prior to check-in
-
272-9000 
was highlighted by the play of down 6-0 the whole game. Then we need to make the playoffs," quarterback Andi Will and by with about five minutes left they captain Kori Yelle said. "If we Karen Goodman's interception scored a touchdown and made loose we're done." 


ANSWER ~ THECALL "!:,/ 

Fr. Bill Wack, C.S.C. 

www.nd.edu/-vocation 
Oetv-el"i1'! Tk M!f__t Pizza.I (B©tfl\l ~lb© @ . ©@~ iJ(!]@~c!ltfl~H9  
12 Anytime Anytime you call between you call between 5:30 & 7:00, 10:30-12:599 9the price of your the price of yourI large 1 topping 2 large 1 6 topping pizzas pizza is the time you call.is the time you call. * Plus tax* Plus tax  
r---­Lunch Speciai' ­--, 1 Small 1 Topping : ND store I 2 Cans of Coca-Cola product I Saint Mary's/ I $5 99 IL ______ .:_ ______ .J North Village Mall271-1:1.77 271-PAPA  

Tuesday, October 5, 1999 
SOCCER 
SMC picks up 7th win over Goshen 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
Sports Writn 
111 pouring rain and 48 dogrno lorn pcratures, tl1c Saint Marv's soccer t!'am dl'fnatcd c;c"rnhen College 3-0 011 the road Sunday. 
"It was rna!ly 1-iasty," head coach .Jason ~lilligan said. 
Snnior captain Katy Barger was pl1'asnd with Saint Mary's p1irl'ormanrn against Goshen. 
"Tlwy WPl"I' a d1icc11t team, but WE' dominatod tlw whole gamn," Harger said. 
Tlw Bcll,•s evenly spread lirnir 17 shots among the two halvns -nino in tlw l1rst half'. ,trHI 1iight in thP sncond. Barger 11:d her !oam wilh snv1111 shots. 
Bargnr also rnntributecl the l'irst goal, with an assist from frnshnrnn Shawna .lianonni. 
"W<! had good passos and we w1ire ablfl lo finish and scnre," Bargnr said. "Thiugs went really well for us." 
Sophomore Tia Kappahahn scornd llrn second goal. on an assist by Barger. 
.. , just thought we played rPally well," Kappahahn said. 
Barg<1r n!monled her leam's victory wilh a s1H:oml goal ­tlw tPam's third. She lrnaded it in af'lPr rnc1~iving a pass al'ross l-lw goal from Kappahahn. 
"IL was onn or the mnst bc)autit'ul plays," Kappahahn said of Bargnr's ]wader. "It was our goal of thr. year." 
All of tho goals were scored . in tlw first half of the game. .Ii an non i, II <1atlw r Muth. Laura l'aul<m. Liz Coley, Cara 
Dunbar. Katie II eek and Adrian Kirby also had scoring chances for the Belles. 
The Belles are now 7-1-1 for the season, and 1-1 in MIA/\ conference play. 
"Everv team that wp,'ve played, except Kalamazoo, has played a defensive game," Milligan said. 
Kalamazoo College's women's soccer team is the dnfending champions in the conference. 
"Once we get up against teams that come out and attack us, that will open up a lot of space Ifor us to score1," '.\1.illigan said. . 
Goalie Brie Gershick made two savt>s in the game. Goshen College only had six shots on goal. 
"\Ve have an awesnme defensive leam tbis vear " G1\rshick said. "They'r~ mak­ing my job oxtremoly oasy." 
With such a solid defense, the BPlles are now working hard in practices to sharpen their offensive skills. 
"We've been focusing on defense and position," Milligan said. "Now we are focusing on shooting. It takes time tn develop. Once we've estab­lish~? it, it won't be a prob­lem. 
Saint Mary's next game is at home on Wednesday at 4 p.m. against Albion College. 
"Albion is a conference game," l\1illigan said. "They will be a pretty good game." 
He was also optimistic about. the rest of the season. 
"We've got lots ot· good games coming up," Milligan said. "I know we're ready." 
The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Knights continue winning \Vays 
By KEVIN BERCHOU 
Sports Writ~r 
The Keenan Knights had little trouble extending their winning streak to 17 games Sunday, as thny jumped all over the O'Neill Angry Mob early and proceeded to cruise to a 13-0 victory. 
The Knights came out gun­ning, wasting no time in taking an early lead. Br:ginning the game with the ball on its own :15, Keenan moved to strike immediately. Frnshman signal­caller Billy Ellsworth hit play­er/coach Dong Min on pass play that covered 40 yards. Ellsworth was given ample time by his strong offensive front to heave the ball in the direction of Min, who made lhe sliding grab at O'Neill's 15. · 
"That play gave us cnnfidence early," Ellsworth said. "It was part or our game plan to come out and go after them early." 
.lust four plays later, tailback Nick Costanzo capped the game's opening drive with a four-vasd touchdown run. Kickei· John Rossi successfully converted the extra point to stake the Knights to a 7-0 lead. 
O'l\'eill's offense struggled on a cold, rainy afternoon. The young Angry Mob players had a great deal of trouble moving the fontball all game long. A wet football made for a difficult exchange for the center and the quarterback, as the Angry Mob quarterback fumbled six times but recovered five. 
After the Keenan defense stepped up to squelch an O'Neill fourth down effort, the offense moved to extend the lead. Costanzo was once again called upon, and he responded emphatically, taking a handoff and running ofT right tackle on a 25-yard touchdown scamper as the second quarter came to a close. 

"The right side of the line played well all day," Costanzo said. "Brent Morlock and Eric Gobo gave me huge holes to run thrnugh on both touchdowns." 
The second half was, for the most part, uneventful, as the Keenan defense was able to effectively shut dovvn the O'Neill attack in recording its third shutout in as many games this season. Captain Herb Giorgio led the defensive charge, apply­ing consistent pressure in the backfield. 
Though Keenan can take heart in the fact that it extended its win streak with a shutout, it will not rank this game as one of their best. The Knights com­mitted far too many silly penal­ties, with the only real Angry Mob drive being fueled by 60 yards of Knights' penalties. 
Keenan knnws that to contin­ue its streak it must eliminate the mental errors. 
"We definitely have some things to work on," said Ellsworth. 
Alumni 20, Morissey O 
The Alumni Dawgs mnved to 2-0 on the season as they blanked Morissey Manor. The outcome was never in doubt as the Dawgs controlled all facets of the game from the start. 
Alumni, after seeing its defense effectively shut dnwn the Manor attack for the entire first quarter, finally converted one of many opportunities as the second stanza got under way. Snnior tailback Tom Dietrich took the handoff 22 yards off left tackle to give his team a 6-0 lead. A successful conversion made the score 7-0.. 
A stifling "Doggie D" made life miserable for Manor quarter­back Dan Sullivan. After being sacked four times and inter­cepted twice, there's little doubt Sullivan's mood was as foul as the cold weather. 
Taking that 7-0 lead into half­time, Dawgs' coach senior Mike Aubry was able to make some adjustments that would prove to pay off handsomely. On their first possession of the second half, the Dawgs went for the jugular. 
It was again Dietrich who tnok a pitch, this time off the right side, and ran 60 yards for a touchdown. 
"We made some adjustments at the half," Dietrich said. "We saw that the pitch to the right side might work. IFullback I Bailey Siegfried made a great block on that play." 
The Dawgs then capped a dominating effort, as sopho­more quarterback Matt Anton Giovanni scored on a keeper from four yards out. 
"I though we played well," Aubry said. "Our offensive line and defense both played extremely well. We're happy with this one." 
Dillon 7, Stanford 0 
In a hard-fought battle of 1-1 teams, the Dillon Big Red out­lasted the Stanford Griffins in a game played in miserable wet conditions. 
The Dillon nffcnse tallied the game's only score in the first half on a long pass play as sophomore quarterback Colin Conway found wideout Rob Redenour. 
"It was a play-action pass," Dillon captain Jason Visner said. "Conway made a great pass and Redenour just out ran everyone." 
Stanford's best chance to tie things up came after the Grillin defense made a huge stop forc­ing a Big Red punt. Talented junior Cory Hartman lieldfld the punt and bolted up the sideline. 
It looked as if Hartman was 
-
about to break a huge gain when he was suddenly blasted by a Big Red defender. Hartman fumbled the ball and was knocked unconscious, in a play that swung the game's momen­tum. 
The Griffin players were obvi­ously concerned for their l'allen teammatfl, while Dillon, for all intents and purposes, wrapped up its second win. 
Even in defeat Stanfnrd cap­tain John Dickas thought his tnam played well. 
"OuF defense played great. They kept us in the game," Dickas said. 
Visner was pleased with his team's effort. 
"We played real well," Visner said. "Our line controlled the game." 
...
With the win, the Big Red is 
one the fast rack to the playoffs. while the Griffins will be left scrambling to get in. 



Tuesday, October 5, 1999

page 26 The Observer . SPORTS 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Otters drop first game of the season to Juggernaughts 

... 
-
By RACHEL BIBER Sports Writer 
During an afternoon dominat­ed by rainy weather, the Sorin Ott<~rs' finely-tuned offensive machine. led by quarterback Luke Beuerlein, began to show signs of rust, as the Knott Hall Juggernaughts ran away with a 14-7 victory. 
The rain was a nuisance for the Sorin offense. wreaking havoc on its normally strong passing game. The beating the Otters took from the Juggernaughts also did not allow them to repeat their past suc­cessful performances, causing them to fall to 2-1. 
"We couldn't throw well." Sorin captain Fred Faber said. "And they beat up our line." 
For the first time this season. the Otter offense was overshad­owed by the play of their oppo­nent. as quarterback Mario Suarez and company led the Juggernaughts to victory, improving their record to 2-1. Suarez. captain of the Juggernaughts, was very impressed with his team's per­formance. 
"Our offonse and defensive line 
dominated the field." Suarez 
said. 
Knott Hall put points on the board first by a second quarter touchdown set up by an inter­ception by Terry McElroy. A Suarez pass into the hands of receiver Looe Baker in the end zone gave the Juggernaughts six points, and runningback Pat Virtue added an extra two on a successful two-point conversion. 
The Juggernaughts doubled 
their lead in the third quarter 
due to another touchdown pass 
from Suarez to Baker. The pass 
ended a solid drive featuring 
consistent passing from Suarez 
and dominating running from 
Virtue. 
The Otters struck back in the 
fourth quarter when Faber ran 
for a touchdown, but failed to 
mount a successful comeback 
when a fourth down pass from 

CANCUN &MAZATLAN $499 & UI' SKI· CRESTED BUTTE $329 
1·SOO·SURFS·UP
www.studentex ress.com 
Beuerlein on their next posses­sion was batted down in the end zone. 
Even though Sorin suffered its first loss, Faber was pleased with his team's performance, bul sees room for improvement with his team's strength. 
"It was the best game we played all year." raher said. "But they beat up our line. That's all we are going to do m1xt week -is beat each other up and get a little stronger." 
Fisher 14, Zahm 0 
Luckily for Fisher, Steve Doherty l;ad the game of his life. 
Without Doherty's stellar per­formance, Fisher's 14-0 defeat of Zahm would have been impossible. 
Doherty was in the spotlight the entire game, making critical plays on offense and on defense to help the Green Wave improve their record to 2-0-1. 
''He played a great game," Fisher captain Dean Korolis said. "lie came ready to play." 
After Zahm took possession of the ball on its 1-yard line in the first quarter, Fisher sacked quarterback Dan Burke in the end zone to take a 2-0 lead on a safetv. 
Doherty then began to heat up 
on a frigid, rainy day, leading· 
Fisher to its win. A second 
quarter interception by Doherty 
sparked the Green Wave's next 
scoring drive, and his diving 
catch from freshman quarter­
back Rick Ysasi put the team in 
and excellent position to score. 
Six Fisher points were then 
insured by a Doherty touchdown reception. which was marred by an excessive celebration penalty. 

Doherty attributed his success to the dominating play. of' the Fisher offensive line, giving them all lhc credit. 
"Our offensive line played real­ly well," Doherty said. "It was the first time our quarterback had time to throw." 
Fisher's second touchdown was again provided by DqJ1erty, but this time a 40-yard touch­down pass lhnn Ysasi led to the score. 
Zahm failed to piece together a productive offensive drive for the second straight week in a row, suffering another shutout and causing its record to fall to 0-3. 
Siegfried 24, St. Ed's 12 
Siegfried's offonse surged dur­ing its matchup against St. Ed's on Sunday, rolling to a 24-12 victory and an a record of 2-0-1, while St. Ed's dropped to 0-3. 
The Ramblers finally succeed­ed in pulling all their strengths together on offense, defense and special teams, and displayed an all-around solid performance. 
"Today we put it all together," Rambler coach Jamie Bordas said. 
A quick score by St. Ed's in the first quarter motivated Siegfried to get its offense fired up. 
Rambler quarterback Tim 
Greene's pass to Nick Sciola 
from the 1 fi-yard line was inter­
cepted by Sciola and returned all 
the way for the score, frustrating 
the Rambler sideline and caus­
ing them to quickly strike back. 
"On defense we were disap­
pointed by the quick score," 
Bordas said. 

Siegfried's next possession resu.lted in a score when the offensive line created huge holes for runningback Travis Smith who took the ball all the way from midfield in for a touch­down. Kicker Peter Aguiar then connected on the extra point, putting the Ramblers on top 7-6. 
As the seconds ticked away in the first half, Aguiar put the Ramblers further ahead by sending a 47-yard field goal straight through the uprights. Aguiar had a perfect day, mak­ing three of three extra points and the long range field goal. 
The Ramblers started right where they left off in the opening of the second half when a strong 

!~ 


15 Michig&"'1 4:00prn 
offensive driv11 ended in a rush­
ing toucht.l.uwn for runuingback 
Smilh. 
"Travis Smith did a great job 
running the ball today." Bordas 
said. 
Siegfried's offensive torrent 
continued in the fourth quartP.r 
when quarterback Hoh Plumby 
connected with wide open fresh­
man T.J. Fontana in the end 
zone for the touchdown. 
Siegfried was at last able to 
see all its potential put into 
action as they reeled off 24 
points -eight times as many 
points as they had scored all 
season. 
"It was good to get some 
points on the board," Smith said. 
"It made the work pay off." 
Management Consultants 


Fox TROT  
Fox, I'M GUESS1N& Tl-tAT's '!'OU Mt&HT Oo ok'. 1HE PoSI· AS A DEFENSIVE TtoN I 8ACI<'. PRAcT1cEO ALL SUMMER' .  I CAN Do THE "OEtoN SANOERS Ht&H STEP~... \  

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 35 Dosage unit 66 Stumbles 36 Caribbean 67 Query before 
1 Ayatollahs' music _"Here goes!" 
predecessors 
39 Ovine utterance 6 Gunslinger's 
40 A major, maybe 
command DOWN
41 Hydrocarbon1o"Oh, my!" suffix 1 "Out!"
14 Hooded snake 42 Paris recreation 2 Balderdash 15 Othello's false area 3 Strong of body friend 44 Lucy's partner and mind 16 ''I'm --you!" 45 Part 3 of the quip 4 Charlemagne's17 Start of a quip so Entanglement realm: Abbr. 
51 Encumbranc.es
20 Summer shirt, 5 Early Greek lyric informally 52 One who grins poet
and bears it 
21 Mallards' homes 6 1934 quintuplet 55 Greek S 
22 Metric volume 7 Forcefully stuff. 
568iol.,e.g.
23 Place for a 45 as a throat 
59 End of the quip 
24 Clinch, as a deal aTurkish generals 
62 Novelist Waugh 2s Part 2 of the quip 9 Took the trophy 
63 Tallow source 32 Son of Venus 10 Chm beard 
64 Words before 33 Stiff denial sight and mind 11 --and tor all 
34 Old polit. cause 65 Entanglement 12 Move 13 Place for a run 
---------------• 18 Warner Bros. ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE creation .....,.....,.....,.....,--, 19 Resort island off L E S S /1 R T S C A V E R Naples A L O T M E A T O L I V E 23 Word in a price M A L I P U A E S O N I A 24 Whit 

2s"The Terminator" woman 
2&Yemeni's ~µ-iRF-1....:....i...,~.:..;.+-=+--f"-'-"':+=+:-+-=-1 neighbor 
i--:-i-=i-=t-= iir":'+~~iillliiit=t=t-:':-i-::::-1-=1 21 E-mail need 2a-Play--with (damage) 29Belgian composer A B I D E E R A S S I R E Guillaume L O V E D S I N E E L S E 30 Newspapers, L E E R Y K E D S A Y A N with "the" 
1uesday, October 5, 1999 The Observer . TODAY page 27 
TOM KEELEY JEFF BEAM
FOURTH AND INCHES A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD 
l"CK hT 'Tl-½\ 'S ,oTAl.L.\' Cf=,\..1U101JS 1-\1:: DOESt,,i'-r MOVE 
J:.T M.l\\(.E.S f-4.E WoNOER. oovR PR HE Doc..S t-fT BWJ K (+Ow T\\E .S.Gl\J1R¥ZEL 
. . . 
BILLAMEND 
I ALWA"fS ntE"MERToN :11-IE "DALE CARTER GUESS HAl'll<S 
FAST-To-GLIDE MoVE~•• WRoN<:,_ CHICKEN 1>AN,E0 
; 
0 
38 Canine cry ss Disparagement 61 "So --me!" 43 Thickness 44 Radio staff, for 
short Answers to any three clues in thi_s puzzle 46On/off--are available by touch-tone phone: 47 Tourist 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
attractions Annual subscriptions are available for the 48 Prefix with best of Sunday crosswords from the last spherical 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

56--good example 57 Oaf 58 Conjectural 60 Ethnic suffix 


After 3,000 consecutive 10 swipes without a retry, it became known simply as "The Streak." 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Steve Miller, Clive Barker, Diane Cilento, Philip Berrigan, Don­ald Pleasence, Mario Lemieux, Glynis Johns 
Happy Birthday: You will be in a good position this year to accomplish your goals. Your ability to please oth­ers will aid you in getting all the help you require in return. Use your strong willpower to force issues that you truly believe in, and you will feel the satisfaction that vou strive so hard to attain. Your numbers: 7, 12, 25, 28, 36, 44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You need to concentrate on your career objectives. Look for a rromotion or a new position that wil lead to finan. cial gains. You must be cautious: Competitive peers may try to make you look bad. 00000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You'll be eager to act upon a decision you just made. Try to slow down so that you can be sure you're doing the right thing. Lately your vision has been clouded. 00 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Emo­tional attachment to someone you work with may cause friction with your boss. Don't push your attitudes and opinions on peers. It is best to keep your thoughts to yourself. 
0000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You'll be in the mood for love. Plan some­thing special for you and your lover. Your dedication to helping everyone else has caused your partner to feel a little neglected. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will have an unrealistic view of your per­sonal situation. Listen to your partner and you'll discover legitimate com­plaints. You can't fix problems unless 
.... 

Birthday Baby: You are focused on self-interests and will excel in areas that you feel drawn to. You must learn to expand your horizons and constantly push yourself to take on new challenges. The more you do, the more satisfac­tion you'll achieve. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
© 1999 Universal Press Syndicate ... 
. 
beam.1@nd.edu 
EUGENIA LAST 
you understand them. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You can accomplish much if you work on your personal projects. Satisfaction will result if you get a positive response from your family. Don't be afraid to ask for help or suggestions from others. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): You need to double-check your bank book. You may have spent more than 
•
you thought recently. Problems with minor health will cause delays in your plans. 0000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): If you're willing to cut loose, you'll find yourself in the midst of an exciting adventure. You can mix business with pleasure if you travel or confront large groups. Take control and you'll achieve. 00 
SAGITfARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Sudden changes regarding your earn­ings can be expected. Don't be too eager to make a big move. Travel will be nonproductive. Empty promises are evident. 00000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
You need to get out with friends, but you must be careful not to overextend yourself. Don't join clubs that you can't afford because someone you like has become a member. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Problems on the home front will be cleared up quickly if you delegate chores fairly. The alterations being made will be beneficial to everyone involved. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You can enjoy the company of others and come in contact with a ideal mate if you get out and mingle. You must be careful not to hesitate. Act on your first instincts for best results. 000 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

' 
Intramural Deadlines 
Thursday, October 7, 1999 
~ 

.. 

INTERHALL VOLLEYBAL~•­
Badminton Singles
(M&W) Ji ~-
RetSports Office 
. ~
Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 
1-6100 • hnp://www.nd.edu/~recsport 
w -• w. 

Race for the postseason 
The women's interhall season is winding down as the team's make their final bids for the postseason. See how your dorm did in complete
PORTS 
Observer coverage. 
page 24, 22, 20 

O
THE page 28 BSERVER 


VOLLEYBALL 
Notre Dame opens conference with two victories 
By MATT OLIVA Spom Writer 
The Notre Dame volleyball tAam opened its conference season this past weekend with
... 
two convincing victories. On Fridav, the Irish (8-:{, 2­
0) defeated West Virginia in three games, 15-7, 15-6, 15-9, before knocking off Pittsburgh 15-5, 15-6. 15-6 on Sunday. 
In the Hig East opener, the Irish outplayed the Mountaineers (8-10, 0-1) in all areas of the game. Mary Leffers finished with a match­high 18 kills and a .567 hitting percentage, while teammates Kristy Krcher and Christy Girton each contributed 11 kills. Denise Boylan finished the match with 35 assists, one more than the entire West Virginia team totaled. 
Defensively the Irish were also impressive. holding the Mountaineers to a .098 hitting percentage. Notre Dame also totaled 49 digs. led by Marcie Bomhack's match-high 16, and out-blocked West Virginia 
11-1. 
"Going into this weekend, we noticed that we were at the bottom of the Big East statis­tics in digs per game," Irish head coach Debbie Brown said. "We concentrated on improving this aspect of our game and that was our key to play good defense." 
Against the Panthers {6-6, 0­
2) on Sunday, the Irish were just as impressive. They won the first two games without ever trailing. 
In the third game. the Irish trailed 5-1, but regrouped after a time-out to tie the game at 5. They surrendered only one more point to the Panthers on their wav to a 15­6 victory and win match 3-0. 
"Pittsburgh was without one of their top players," Brown said. "We did not know what changes they would make, so we wern looking to control the match by blocking well and playing good defense." 
Kreher. Girton and Leffers all finished in double figures in kills, leading the Irish to a team .330 hitting percentage. Defensively. Notre Dame had another strong game. The Irish finished with 47 digs compared to 27 by Pittsburgh. 
Bomhack and Keara Coughlin each totaled 10 digs for match highs. The Irish also out-blocked their opponent in this match 11-7. 
"These games were good for us," Brown said. "Looking back, West Virginia beat us in three games and we had a tough five-game match with Pittsburgh. So it was revenge to beat West Virginia and a big step for our team to con­trol both teams, because we expected both teams to be strong." 
The next match for Notre Dame is against Michigan. The Irish will host the Wolverines tonight at 7 p.m. at the Joyce Center. 
They will continue their Big East conference schedule this weekend on the road against Rutgers and Seton Hall. 

SOCCER 
Michigan, IUPUI visit Alumni Field for doubleheader 

. Women face first ranked opponent in three weeks 
By KEVIN BERCHOU
... 
Sports Writer 
The sixth-ranked women's soccer team enters today's match with the 15th-ranked Michigan Wolverines playing arguably its best ball of the sea­son. 
The Irish women have won four games in a row by a com­"I was really pleased with the much sterner test as today's bined tally of 22-2. way we played," head coach matchup with the Wolverines 
They were at their best this l1andy Waldrum said. "We were constitutes their first game past weekend as they trounced extremely organized on defense, against a ranked opponent since the Georgetown Boyas. 10-0. and offensively w;; were able to last month's upset loss to SMU. 
and the Villanova Wildcats, 4-0, score some goals. to improve to 8-2 on the season. The Irish are prepared for a 
see W.SOCCER/pag;e 23 
games and as long as we can

. Men look to 
keep the ball rolling we shouldstretch winning continue playing this way." Dominating control of the
streak to three 
game and scoring a combined 

seven goals in the last two con­By KERRY SMITH tests, the Irish offense has Sports Writer finally come alive. The Irish 
managed to score only five 

The Irish men's soccer team goals in their first eight out­is looking to capture its third ings, but in the last week they straight win tonight when it increased the tally to 12 goals hosts the IUPUI Jaguars. in 10 games. 
The Irish enter the matchup Freshman forward Erich riding a short but encouraging Braun emerged as a power­two game winning streak. house on attack, netting five 
"We're starting to get our goals on the season -morn confidence back," junior than any other Irish player. defender Stephen Maio said. Braun, who scored both goals "We feel like we've come in Notre Dame's Big East win 
together and played well as a over Syracuse on Saturday, is team in the last couple of 
see M.SOCCER/pagc 19 

vs. Michigan Golf vs. Albion College Cross Counrry Today, 4 p.m. at Kalamazoo College Wednesday, 4 p.m. Benedictine Univ. Invite
SPORTS ~ e s':i e 
Today, 7:30 p.m. Friday, 3:30 p.m. 
ATA 
vs. IUPUI Volleyball vs. Michigan vs. Arizona State ~ Today, 7:30 p.m. vs. Michigan . ~ Thursday, 7:05 p.m . Saturday, 1 :30 p.m. 
GLANCE • ~ ,.Today 7:30 p.m. 


