
Trouble in Kosovo 

Thursday 
¦ NATO launches air strikes against Yugoslavia, 
¦ Read about the 65 voices of Notre Dame's 
MARCH 25, 
drawing criticism in Russia 

Liturgical Choir. 
and protests in rhe U.S. News• 5,8,9 
Scene• 11 -12 
1999 
THE 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 111 WWW. N D.EDU/~OBSERVER 


Forum focuses on undergrad research 
struct an inquiry-based first year f'or students. 
"We're not doing a rnally good job of' that in the busi­ness lschooll right now," said Thomas Frccka, profossor of' accountancy, who said that the department needs to make progress in building tho first-ynar foundation: 
Some progress has been made, he said, through the dovolopment of' an eight course core program focus­ing both on individual cases of' companies and group work with a major omphasis on communication skills. 
Tim goal. added Frccka, is to mak(\ students critical t.hink<~rs and to integrate general prlucation into one's major f'iold of study. In his case, ho will show how accounting is incorporated with business and society. 
Tho report also targets problems with large lecture classes in which students don't gnt the attention they nned and therefore feel dis­1rngag1id from class, said Dennis Jacobs, associatn pro­f'Hssor of' chc1i1istry and bio­chumistry. Jacobs ·dcvcilopud a small chumistry course with added mandatory tutori­al sessions to focus more on individual student needs. 
"Tho Boyer report calls us all [to makel more [rigorous 
sec FORUM / page 4 

New allegations arise in Dunbar investigation 
By BRIAN KESSLER Spores E<lirnr 
!lead football coach Bob Davin will answnr questions about what ho or tho Univ1irsity knows about rormnr football boosl!\r Kim Dunbar, whose namo has rnsurl'acnd with a.llegalions that shn providnd gif'ls, trips and money to formnr Notrn Danw wido rncnivnr Dnrrick Mayes. at a 2 p.n1. prnss c:onl'nrencn today. 
ESP'.\J rnportPdly obtainPd mat.Prial that confirms Dunbar and Mayes flew to I.as V1!gas together on .Juno :rn. l1J9!i. just eight days af'tPr Dunbar lwcanw an official Notre Damn booster. Tho hotnl hill and an airlirw ticktits, which inclucln Mayns' nanw, w1•rp paid for with Dunbar's crndit card. 
This report comes loss than a yeur af'lnr Mayos. in a sworn affidavit, rlnnind having any contact with Dunbar after .July IIJCJ4. Mayes, who is curn1ntly a member of' tlw Green Bay Packers and played for Nol.rn Damn from JCJ<J2-CJ5, also dl'ni11d receiving any gifts from Dunbar. 
Dunbar, on the other hand, insists that slw gave Mayes plane tickets to Minrwapolis. a viclno camera l'or his 21st birthday, a chauf­f'ournd limousine trip to a Valenti,w's Day dinner in Kalamazoo, a wnnkond trip to Chicago and accommodations al tlw Chicago llilton llotel, clothes, sowral pairs of sl1011s and numerous mnals. Sim also rlairns that she paid a car repair bill for Mayes and gave him small amounts of' cash on several occa­sions. 
A N o tre D a nm s p o k n sw o m a n s a id Wednesday that llw University and its attor­neys are not aware of' thn information 
see DUNBAR/ page 4 


By CHRISTINE KRALY Assistanr News Editor 
Many faculty members do not think undnrgraduatc stu­dents can handle research work. according lo Daniel Myers. assistant profossor of sociology, at a Faculty ScnatP f'orum addrnssing undergrad­uate mlucation Wednesday night. 
"This is complotnly and uttnrly I inconsistm1tl with my oxpnri<'nco," added Myers, who !wads up a tlm\P credit­hour research t.uam which includes 12 undergraduates studying tlw sociological fac­tors of rioting. "It's important to havn a real combination of' rnsearch work and academic [nducalion I." 
The f'orum. Heinventing Und1irgra cl II ate Education. was inspired by the current report from Tho Boyer Commission on Educating Undnrgraduatns in the Hesearrh Univnrsity. Myers, along with five other University pro1'11ssors, dis­cussed individual collego improvPrn1mts in undergrad­uate research programs. 
Assistant. professor Felicitas Munzel from the Program of Liberal Studies served as tho forum chair and highlighted some points from tlrn Boynr report, including tlrn recommenda­tion that univnrsities con­

¦ ~TUOENT SENATE 


Members consider sweatshops, parietals change 
By FINN PRESSLY 
J\ssisranr N,·w, Fdiror 
Noln\ llamn's 1ww policy to monitor clothing lic1•11s1H\S l'or sweatshop violations came under l'ritirism hy podium spnaknr t\arnn Krnidnr of the l'rogrnssivP St.udenl t\lliance at Wednesday's Stucknt ScrrntP nwct.ing. 
"Tlw probl1•m is that the University of' Notre Danw ckarlv wants lo lw a leader in this issuo, hut tlwy lia'wn't taknn the steps to become a lPa<ler," said KrPidnr. "Thnrn's been no 1mforcn­rnn11t. limy haV!'n'l b,•Pn checking 011 thcs11 f'acto­rins." 
l'ar'l ol' llw problPrn stems from the control the co111pani1\s have ovnr which factories aro selcctnd for inspn!'lion. acrording to Krcidnr. In addition. tlw 1:air Labor t\grnPnwnt does not rnquirn cor­porations to publish ti!(' addrnsscs of tlrn f'acto­rics. 
"Without disdosurn of' thn location or tlw f'acto­rics, NCOs [non-gowrmrnmtal organizations! and rPligious groups cannot send people to monitor thosci l'actorim;," lw said. 
Krnidor also stn•ssed the importance of' guaran­lneing labornrs a "living wage," enough to pro­vide food, slrnlt11r and clothing. In most countries, Urn living wagn is often significantly higher than the local minimum wage. 
"Them is potential for Notre Dame to become a leader in this issue," he said. 
Fislrnr snnator Philip Dillmar, howevnr, con­tended that Urn Univnrsity has already taken sig­nificant stnps towards eliminating sweatshop labor. rdcrring to a rncnnt University alliliution with PriccWaterhouseCoopors, which will also conduct factory invnstigations. 
"We can check on any factory that we question within four days," Dittmar said. "I think Notre Damn is doing iis much as they can." 
I le also rnforred to thn new task forc11 f'ormnd by the Univnrsity. "The task force will explore possible ways we can do bettor," lw said. 
In othor sonat(l nnws: 
• Mmnlmrs approvml thren rnsolutions regard­ing the parintals survny distributnd earli11r in the senwster. Pasquerilla Wost senator Susan Gloss. who prcsnntncl the rosults of the survey. said that she and her committee weni surprised by tlrn results. 
"It was a lot more balanced than we thought," she said. 
From tho results of' the survey and from cont'er­encos with campus administrators, the committee has temporarily abandoned its fight to universally extend parietals. 
see SENATE / page 6 


page 2 
¦ INSIOf: COLUMN 


Malloy let 
one get aw-ay 
What do Andre Agassi and Notre Dame 
have in common? Each believes "Image is Everything." University president Father Edward Malloy 
will never admit that he rejected Rick 
Majerus as the new  
men's basketball coach,  Mike Connolly  
but that won't stop it  Associate Spam Editor  
from being true.  

Malloy rejected \1ajcrus for something that he wrote in a book. Majerus said that he would find it hypocritical ifhe disciplines an athlete from academic fraud since he com­mitted academic fraud while a student at Marquette. 
Big deal. 
Don't you think your parents sometimes find themselves being hypocritical for disci­plining their children for actions that they committed while growing up? 
This doesn't mean that your parents can't or won't discipline you. I1.jus1. means that they may foe! hypocritical. The same situa­tion exists with Majerus. 
Look at the larger picture. 
llis athletes graduate. They stay four years and they get their degrees. When was the last time your heard about a Utah player getting into trouble? 
Even supposedly marginal students like Andre Miller become solid students by the time they leave Utah. Majerus has never had trouble with his student-athletes. 
But of course, Malloy didn't look at the big picture. He didn't sit down and talk with Majerus in an interview to get to know him. He didn't ask Majerus about his athlete's aca­demic history or what he does to make sure his players go to class. 
No. He read a passage from a section of Majerus' book and deemed him unfit to coach at Notre Dame. 
Michael Wadsworth interviewed Majerus and got to know him. He learned that Majerus is a quality individual who would be a perfect fit under the Dome. 
But for Malloy, because Majerus speaks his mind and does things his own way. he was rejected. 
Majerus may be a big fat slob. I won't argue about that. He isn't concerned with his appearance or how others perceive him. He just wins basketball games and makes sure his players stay eligible and out of trouble. 
What more can you ask from a Notre Dame coach? 
Malloy seems to think that the image and perception that all is right is more important than the actual quality of an individual. 
Well, I've got news for Monk: Notre Dame is not perfect. Never has been, never will be. Who is one of the most famous people ever to attend Notre Dame? 
George Gipp: a man who spent most of his time in a bar playing pool, far from any class­room. 
Why did the Gipper die? 
Because he was out at a bar past curfew, got locked out of his dorm and caught pneu­monia from sleeping outside. Not exactly the Notre Dame spirit that Monk seems to require of a basketball coach. 
It seems that that the only one who could live up to the moral standards that Monk has put forth for a basketball coach would be Jesus himself. 
But wait, the cleansing of' the temple when he dumped over tables and whipped mer­chauts would probably render Jesus unlit. Character is nothinr; here. 
Image is Everything. 
ThP 11iews exprPsspcJ in the Inside Column are rho.<w of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

News Scene Tun Logan Ju11a Gillespie Matrhew Smith Graphics Kate Steer 
Chrissy Manary 
Sports 
Production 
Mike Connolly 
Kerry Smith Viewpoint Lab Tech 
A.J. Boyd Job Tmner 
Th, Ob«rvcr (lJSPS 599 2-4000) i, publi,hcd Monday rhrough Friday cxcrpr during ('xam :i.nd vacarion periods. The Observer is a member of the A'i.~ociarcd Prc,s. All reproduction righrs are re-served. 


The Observer• INSIDE Thursday, March 25, 1999 


utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Man banned from all U.S. colleges after UConn solicitations 
STORRS. Conn. 
A convicted sex offender who solicited female students on campus was banned from all college campus­es in tlrn United States, a Superior Courtjudge ruled on Tuesday. 
John Urban, 38. of Billerica, Mass., is free after posting $150,000 bail. 
Under the conditions of the bail, Urban was ordered to stay away from all female college undergraduates. 
"The bond conditions are our efforts to assure the citizenry of UConn that they are safe, and that Urban is not a threat to them," said defense lawyer James Sulick. 
Urban was arrested March 9 on weapons charges after a sock filled with rocks, a brown lockblade knife, handcuffs with a chain, rope and two wndoms were found in his vehicle. 
On March 18, Urban was charged by UConn police with three counts of stalking and two counts of disorderly 
¦ Sourn Brno WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather00 forecast for daytime conditions and high temperature:,, 
L  
Thursday  (f 41  25  
Friday Saturday  ~ 47 (f 60  25 35  
Sunday Monday(5'"""~··.. •··., _/··  ~63 /t_J) 63 r'  40 45  

4_Q_~p~rQ ~ ~ u 
Showers T•storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via As.socialad Press Graphicsfval 

conduct after he appeared at the police station to pick up his impound­ed vehicle. 
According to police. 57 female stu­dents have come forward to say that Urban asked them to baby-sit his chil­dren or watch his dogs. Some of the women said they accepted rides from Urban. 
Police Chief Robnrt Hudd said he is grateful for the decision. On multiple occasions police asked the prosecut­ing attorney and bail commissioner for Urban to be banned from UConn, Budd said. 
¦ NAT!O!\lt\l. WEArnER 
The AccuWeather" forecast for noon, Thursday, March 25. 
FRONTS: 
-.--T' -----.............
C 1999 Acc:uWeathar, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
@"'"'© . CJ D . CT] . r.) -~ 
~H_lg_h_L_o_w _S_ho_w•_rs_R_al_n _T-s_1o_rm_•_Flu_rr_l•• __sn_ow__,c•__su_n~ Pt. Cloudy 
Vta AssactaledPre$S 
Atlanta  65  49  lndianapohs  44  28  New Orleans 72  
Buffalo  34  27  Jacksonville 8 t  63  New York  48  
Burlington  33  26  Los Angeles 57  54  Orlando  87  
Dallas  65  55  Miami  83  70  Seattle  52  
Hartford  48  32  Minneapolis 44  17  Washington  53  


"l think that the ban is a good thing." said Kathleen HolgArson. director of the \Vomen's Center. "It is an important recognition that it was not only our campus he was a threat -to, but other campuses as well." 
Liz Erhardt. USG presid1rnt. was also pleased with the judge's ruling, saying that it will give other universi­ties an immediate reason to arrest Urban if he is found on their campus. 
Marisa Nadolny, an eighth-semester English/anthropolgy major, said she was uncertain of how effective the ban would be. She said Urban may try to alter his identity should he ever try to come back to UConn. 
Urban was convicted in 1982 of raping a child. stalking and kidnap­ping. Ile was sentenced to life in Bridgewater State Hospital. a psychi­atric institution in Massachusetts, but was relased after he plnad guilty to several incidents. 
WI~"' 
Cloudy 
60 
41 63 41 
48 
¦ INO!Al\lA UNIVERS!TV Dean looks into football team brawl 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 
Dean of students Richard McKaig announced Tuesday he will be leading an Indiana University investigation of Monday night's fight between members of the football team and of Phi Beta Sigma fraternity. "We'll be inter­viewing as many students as we can that may have famil­iarity with the incident or any other individuals that come forward," McKaig said. Three students were taken to Bloomington Hospital after the fight. Senior football cor­nerback Curtis Randle El is in stable condition and under­went an exploratory laparotomy Monday night after being stabbed twice in the abdomen. Senior fraternity member Ramone Demming and sophomore football player Kyle Moffatt were treated and released Monday night, a Bloomington Hospital patient care director said. The light. which was reported to police at about 9:30 p.m.. was one of multiple incidents that day between the groups. 
¦ UMVERS!TY Of WiSCONS!N Administration fights ROTC policy 
MADISON, Wisc. 
In a meeting Tuesday, UW-Madison administrators and the Associated Students of Madison's Equal Rights Initiative agreed to fight against an alleged ROTC anti-gay discrimination policy. The ERi released a report earlier this month that detailed an ROTC policy prohibiting ROTC students from "engaging in homosexual acts." It also sug­gested ways to ensure that gay students receive scholar­ship money and leadership training similar to what the ROTC provides. Provost John Wiley said he was impressed with how much work went into the report. lie said he called a meeting between UW-Madison administrators and the ERi to discuss its suggestions. "The meeting was really to congratulate them on a good job and say that we agree with them and want to work with them," he said. Wiley said the University will try to create a program that would teach the same leadership skills as the ROTC. 
¦ MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY Cards deliver sobering message 

EAST LANSING, Mich. 
Greeting card companies may soon have some competi­tion from a small organization planning to send birthday greetings to every Michigan State University student turn­ing 21. But they aren't ordinary cards. Following the cover's normal birthday greeting, the inside mads, "Be responsible about drinking ... We want you to turn 22." The program stems from Be Responsible About Drinking (BRAD), an organization founded six weeks ago by the parents and friends of Bradley McCue, an MSU junior who died of alcohol poisoning after celebrating his 21st birth­day by drinking 24 shots in two hours. Cindy McCue, Bradley's mother. said the idea behind BRAD is not to dis­courage young people from celebrating on their birthday, but to give them information on the cons1\quences of' drinking too much in a short amount of time. "We'rn not saying don't have a good time," she said. 
¦ lJMvrnsrrv OF Amzor-JA Professor captures textbook theif 

TUCSON, Ariz. 
A UA chemistry professor yesterday chased a suspccWd 
thief through university buildings and help1\d detain the 
man until police could arrest him for reportndly stealing a 
textbook. Michael Brown, 50, said Im pursued a man lw 
allegedly found searching his desk in a chemistry building, 
because of a hunch and "a lot of built up resentment 
toward thieves." Police arrested Anh Tuan llaynh, 26, on 
suspicion of theft after they found a textbook belonging to 
the chemistry professor inside his bag, police reports stat­
ed. Brown left his ol'lice unlocked and went to chnck the 
mail at 12:15 p.m, and returned to find llaynh "standing 
over his desk shuflling through books," reports statml. "I 
saw this person in the hall," said Brown, a UA professor 
for 12 years. "He was well-dressed and nice looking. lie 
didn't look like a normal UA student." Brown said llaynh 
fit the physical description of' an alleged theif'. 


page 3 

Ayacht for the price of a dinghy. 

Now you can get it all without paying for it all. Because the PowerBook® G3 is more affordable than ever (see below). Awesome Pentium-crushing power.* Massive 14.l" screen. Endless adaptibility. All of which can helpyou work faster and more efficiently. Leaving you more time to stop and smell the ocean breeze. Come in and test the waters. 
PowerBook® G3 prices have been slashed up to $700 with prices starting at $1799.00 Available Now. 
Call now for Apple's special ND student offers! OIT Solutions Center Room 112 Computing/Math Bldg Phone: (219) 631-7477 (1 for sales) 

Apple Education Store: · www.apple.com/education/store Au1horized 
1.800 7805009 Value Added Reseller 

01991,Appf 1.:i.~1t't, Inc. AM ri,:htitc."Sc.rn-d. Aprtfc, 1h-e Afrpk li.1111, ;md ~"''<~rO,nk m:: !'31:lem~nt'itli.Appk O:impwcr, Inc, n!l-,'l\lcred il rhc U.S.A. and other 0.)Ulllriti;. 'l\.'ff. •nt.iftCC i'f1n~~n h1c.al un ll\11intut lnit..~tf fl':tl. 
~ ---------WHY NOT..II 
I Hometown: Lynchburg, VA I 
Shoe Size: 15AA 

I 
Favorite Food: Post-Mass Shake

I I 
1 "BrotheL it doesn't get any better than this. 
1 
I I I I I I 
' 
I I I 
¦ 
~ 
ANSWER THE CALL--today!" 
--Fr. Paul Doyle, C.S.C., ND '65, '75, Rector, Dillon Hall 

For more information on Holy Cross' one-year Candidate Program contact: 
Fr. Jim King. C.S.C. or Fr. Bill Wack. C.S.C. 
1-6385 
vocation. l@nd.edu 
---_.. FOLLOW HIM .... ? 

checkout THE PLUNGEatwww.ndeciu/~vccation 
• MULTICULTURAL BEAT 

Visitation weekend will focus on minorities at ND 
Range of events intends to increase minority enrollment 
By MAUREEN SMITHE News Writer 
Minority students that will be admitted to Notre Dume for t.he 1999·2000 acadern• ic year will visit campus this woekond for thn annual Spring Visitation Weekend. 
Organized by the Office of Undergraduate Admissions, this all­expenscs·paid weekend aims tu "let these students know that we am inhiri>sted in diversity," said Chri8ty Fleming, multicul· tural recruitment coordinator for tho Admissions departmPnt. "Tho Office is 
committed to making Notrn Dame morA eth· nically divorsc." 
"As we read the l'ilos, we invite all those whose applica· tions look liko thny will. 
bt\ acceptml," FIPming
nolcd. "Tl1cy don't know until they arrivn lwrn that we arc going to ocficially admit them. 
Currently, Notre Dame is soverely lack· ing in diversity, according to Fleming. 
,Jo ME, IT 1s INEXCUSABLE 
TO HAVE A NATIONAL UNI­VERSJTY WITH SUCH AN ETHNl-CALLY UNDIVERSE CAMPUS.' 
C!i/US'/T Ft.i:,WIN<; 
Ml!/.T/Cl !/. TUl?Al. 1//:'C'l/l!ITMHNT 
COORf)Jl\lATOR, ADMISSIONS DEPT. 
. 
"To ·me, it is in.excusable to have a national university with such an ethnically undiverse campus," she said. 
Although the student body is made up or only thrne percent African Americans. seven porccnt Latinos, four percent Asians and less than one percent Native Americans, Fleming noted that "we have gone up in the number of ethnic studonts admitted." 
Office of Multicultural Student Affairs aids the Office of Undergraduate Admissions with planning for the four•day weekend. · 


"We work with ethnic organi,.alions on their programs (ill' thi8 wcnkm1d. Tho stu· dents hore for th,~ woeknnd can obsorvn all the cultural things to do hcrn on earn· pus." said Iris Outlaw, dirnctor of Multicultural Student Affairs. 
Events like Latin Exprnssions, thn Black Cultural Arts Festival fashion show and a Native American pow·wow are typical of th11 Spring Visitation Weekend, according to Outlaw. 
"A lot of students don't consider Notn1 Damn. It is a diancn for them to snn th11ir presence here," Outlaw said. 
· Som(] spnculate that there is an undmly­ing tone of bias involved with tlrn week­
end. 

"I can dnfinitely sne how som11 studnnts who WPrn here for the wrmknnd arn sur­prised at the lack of' divnrsity !wni wlwn they arrive in the fall, .. said rmshman Denise Fraga, who participated in tlrn 
wnnknncl last spring. "But no one hid any· thing from us. Wn wnre made awarn of tlrn facts." 
Outlaw noted that efforts arn madn to makn potential stu· dents aware of the low minority p1wcnnt­
agi1s in nnrollmnnt. 

"Timm is a work· shop with a stud1rnt pannl," slw. said. ".Just 
studnnts orrn on one to sharri thn ins and 
outs, thn ups and downs of what is hap­pening hem on campus with rngard to diversity." 
Fleming takes a similar approach. 

"We do toll thnm that it will be vnry like· ly that, ror nxample, they mayb1\ the only African American in a calculus class," shn said. 
Fleming added that with all the excite· rnent and involvement of the multicultural organizations during this weekend, sonrn potential students forget that not every weekend is as culturally cnlebratl\d as Spring Visitation. 
In •a stol'y in Tuesday's Observer, director of Public Helations and Information Dennis Moote was qµdted as saying that Notre Dame had made a countnr-offor to former professor.of Medieval Studies Mark Jordan. . 
While a counter-offer was prepared, it was never tendered to Jordan because he s1:1.idtha(c~~»'?Ult[l9n]y $tay at Notre Dame if the University reconsidered its decision not to' add sexual orientation to the non-discrimination clause, which Moore stated the University will not do. 


page 4 The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 25, 1999 
Foruill 
continued from page 1 
changf'sl," .Jacobs said. 
The course, Chemistry 113/114, helped raise grades and lower the drop rate of "at­risk" students. those who scored below 630 on their math SAT. 
"It's important that when you do innovation, you measure it." he said. noting that he and his colleagues are continuing their rcsflarch in developing courses that will more readily incorpo­ratfl "pedagogical innovations." 
Representatives from the College of Arts and Letters also expressed interest in imple­menting Boyer recommenda­tions. 
"f would like to see faculty creativity unleashed in the Core Course," said Steve hedrnan. director of the Arts and Letters Corn Course. 
Core. a required course for all sophomore Arts and Letters majors, emphasizes inquiry­based learning hy having stu­dents lead discussion sessions, said Fredman, who says that he wants to "integrate Core into the intellcciual life of our students." 
According to Fredman, Core "is taught primarily by adjuncts," and 50 percent of the Arts and Letters courses have been cut, mostly due to the demand of Arts and Letters pro­fessors to emphasize some of their time on research. 
Fredman, who said that "the reward structure for professors has been relegated to the bot­tom of the heap," wants to inte­grate more faculty into teaching Core. 
Core program coordinators are looking to make changes in its curriculum. They are consid­ering a series of experimental 
models of new course offerings 
and the possibility of offering an 
alumni course in the summer 
for alumni to return to campus 
and "tune back into" the intel­
lectual advantages of Core. 
The College of Engineering 
was also represented at the 
forum by John Uhran, professor 
of computer science and electri­
cal engineering. 
''We have berm making 
changes in our College of 
Engineering," he said, including 
hiring a new dean. 
The college intends to revise the first year curriculum for engineering intents and plans to develop a learning center for engineering students to get help with their workloads. 
The engineering department wants to revamp the paradigm of education from teaching to learning, Frcdman said, by mak­ing students understand what they arc learning rather than just feeding them information. 
Much of the forum discussion centered on the recent emphasis on undergraduate research development and the need to maintain and enhance even more graduate research. 
"It's the best [thing] I've done (since beginning my career in educ.1tion]," said Myers of his research team, adding that keeping students interested in their studies and research is key to educating them. 
His course incorporates about eight hours per week of student research, such as cataloguing and labeling thousands of news­paper clippings and interview transcripts. Two students from the course have gone onto to fol­low-up research projects and Myers says he comes across people "begging to be on the team." 
"[The results] exceeded my wildest hopes," and the student response is "stellar." 

Tiw.e [s Running out to rent one of our spacfous two-bedroow. Townhow.es for the 99-00 School 1:1ear' AppltJ Today. get ass[gned tow.arrow! 
Turtle Creek Apartments·272-8124 
Passion (Palm) Sunday 
March 28, 1999 

f'·}~ 
" 
We will celebrate with one AU-School Mass at 1:30 p.m. Church of Our Lady of Loretto 
Bring your donations for St. Margaret's I-louse. 
NO MASSES WILL BE CELEBRATED IN THE RESIDENCE HALLS 
-r!t­
SAINT 
MARY'S 
COLLEGE 
~ 
0n'IO.OFQ.Nt\A\0CfnQl~~llMG\'11~"6 
,...0-..""'-~5l:m 


Dunbar 
continued from page l 
uncovered by ESPN, but are working with the NCAA to turn over other pertinent information. The NCAA is investigating Dunbar's rela­tionship with Notre Dame players during the 1994 sea­son. 
Included in that investiga­tion is an allegation that Dunbar made a $5,000 pay­ment to former Irish corner­back and current Philadelphia Eagle Bobby Taylor. 
Taylor denied taking money from Dunbar, but she testified that she gave him the money to repay an agent from whom 
he allegedly accepted money, 
Dunbar is currently serving 
a four-year prison term in 
Indiana for embezzling more 
than $1 million from her for­
mer employer, Dominiack 
Mechanical Inc,, of South 
Bend. 
This case has been under investigation by the NCAA since March 6, 1998, when Notre Dame informed the group that Dunbar, a member nf the Quarterback Club, had .given gifts to seven former football players between 1993 
and 1998. 
Notre Damfl's internal inves­
tigation showed that the play­
ers violated no NCAA rules, 
but the group, which oversees 
collegiate athletics, is looking 
into the matter independently. 

Please recycle The Observer. 


Tllere's 11111 TIIDI II Enterl 
Registration & Fees due: Tuesday, April 13 
Captian 's meeting: Wed, April 14, Montgomery Rm. LaFortune 
Race: Sat. April 17, 

1:00 p.m. at St. Mary's Lake 
Regatta Website:http://www.nd.edu/~ fisher/regatta/ 

ponsors: Coca Cola • A.P Image Team, Inc. • Notre Dame Alumni Association Pa a John's Pizza • Subway Sandwiches and Salads • Macri's Deli 

• ¦
• • ¦ 
¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ 

¦ representing campus ¦ 
¦ ¦ 
¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ 

¦ recreation users? ¦ 
¦ ¦ 

~ Now Forming . . . . . . . • • • ¦ ¦ 
¦ 
¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ •¦ 
¦ 
•¦ •
• 
¦ ¦ 


¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ •¦ 
¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ 

¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ 
¦ Applications and additional information ¦ 
¦ ¦ ¦ ¦
• are available at the RecSports Office, 

¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ 
¦ Rolfs Sports Recreation Center. ¦ ¦ For more info. call 1-5100 ¦ 
¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ 
¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦• ¦ Application Deadline • April 1, 1999 ¦ 
¦ ¦ 
¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ 
¦ www.nd.. edu/""'recsport • 
¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦ 

! l111rsday, March 2':i, 1999 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
Representatives question Pentagon over anthrax 

WASIIINCTON l'Pnlagon oflicials c·a1111• undcff sharp quns­1io11i11g WPd1wsday about plans to inoculate 
2.4 million 11w111IH•rs of tlw arnwd forc1~s against. 111111lrax. "Why this \'a{:cirrn'!" Hep. Cllrisloplwr Shays. H-Cu11n., askPd at a lwar­ill!,\ or tlw I lo11s1• Covcr111H1•nl Uef'orrn's sulJ­rn111111illl'P on national :-;1•rurity. Up to 200 s1•rvic<' nwmlH'rs havP n•ru~wd lo takn the vrn·c·i1w Tlw l'Pntagon has said that 220,000 haVt' bf'f'll varduatPd. "Anthrax is t.ho prima­1·y hiolo~iral warl'an• lhrPaL racnl by U.S. l'orrns." Sw• llailcly, assistanrP d<,fonsn secre­tary f'ur lu•altli affairs. told Uw pa1wl. Slw said tlw illllhrnx vard,w ,•,as ll'Stf'd by llw l•'ood and llrug 1\dmi11bl.ratio11 all(l !'ound safo, a dPlN111i1wtior1 ronlirnwd hy an ind(\p(•mh•nt l'l'\"if'\\'. "Tlwn• havP IWl'll 110 long-tPrm siclP PIT1·1·1s rPporlt>d with thn 1:D,\-lic,\llSl'd anthrax vmTi1w." which has bl't•n in Usl' si11r,1 
I1170, slw said 
Police: Mom took son on robbery 
MIAMI BE/\U I. Fla 

\ 11111tlwr was d1argPd with child abusP ,1f1Pr allt•g<'dly bringing lwr 2-yPar-llld boy al1111g \\ IH•11 sh1• lirokP into a housP. 
lal'qtt.ilina \larti1w1 and a1111l111•r suspP<'I. Os n1 r A r III a ll do :\ Iv a r a do . w I' r P a Iso d1arg1•d \\ith burglary for allPg1•dly sL1•al­i11g doti'IIS of CDs. poli1·1• said. l.orrai1JP Bigll'r discoVl'l'Pd a ransarkt>d lwdrnom T11Psciay and 1·a1111· fa1·1• lll fan~ with thn l11•Pi11g irnrglars. poliu• said. Slw d,•scrilwd IIH•Jll to policP. and lht•y W!'T!' a1T1>stnd Pight !ilorks away. Tlw boy was tunwd ov,•r lo tlw stall'. 
School officials: Boy can 
wear gown to prom 
Pll-:HSON. Flu 

Sl'hool ollk.ials n•vPrsl'd tlwir cil'dsion and will allow a lf'l'IHtgc• boy lo altPIHl his high sdw11I pnim in drag. Charil's Bini plans to \\'Par a n•d. llonr-lPngth l'Vt•ning gown. rnd ;.ati11 shrn•s. glovPs and matching rhinnstonn jPWl'iry to S;llurd,Ly's prom. Last wn1\k, l'rinripal l'l'!Pr Oatman told tlw 18-yt•ar-old Taylor lligh School Sl'nior ho would lw n-fusl'<l Pnlrann• to Lill' prom ii' he showPd up in drag. Dalman backt•d down af'tnr confor­ring wilh St1JH'ri11te11dP11l Bill llall and school dislrirl aUonu•ys. as WPII as wviPwing news 

Citizens protest NATO bombing 
/\ssoci.\TJJ1 P1rnss 
Serbs living in lhP United States wort~ outraged Wednnsday that Ni\TO has dirccl11d ils military might against their l10m<:land. whil11 sonw Albanians in this ,·mmtry w,~n• hop1:ful that I.lie bombing of Yugoslavia would lnad to p1iacn. 
"Alba II ian -/\m Bri cans, regardloss of the.ir religious persuasion. an: very much grinvnd by tho humanitarian horror that has occurmd in Kosovo and also by the rncalciira11cf' of the govf'rn­nwnt in lklgradn to nngoli­at,•," said Arthur Liolin, tho V{'ry rev1:r1)11d chancullor ;\lhanian Orthodox i\rchclioc<is<~ in Amnrica. 
Liolin. whose church is basPd in Boston. hoped the bombing would "not only oncouragn but compnl the B('lgrnd1i parlies to stop the massacn:s and the killing." 
But c;eorg Nikolic, prnsi­dent of the Serbian National Congrnss, was outraged at tlw attack. llis Chicago­basPd !'.ongress is an umhn•lla organization for Sl'rhian groups worldwido. 
"We liopP that wlwn this bombing stops, sonwbody will raise tlwir voico and stop this," said Nikolic from Chicago, whore tlw Serb community numbers more than 200,000. "It is totally wrong. This should not be happt!ning. It ncnds to be sloppPd imrncdiatflly." 
The NATO bombings began shortly al'lrir 8 p.m. (2 p.rn. EST). Thn attack was llrn lirst against a sovereign country in NATO's 50-year history. 
In metropolitan Detroit, home lo about 40,000 ethnic Albanians, there was worry. 
"I pray to God that limy do it fast and they don't kill too many people," said Imam Vehvi Ismaili, spiritual leader at the Islamic Center in Harper Woods and an ethnic Albanian. 


Miko Tomich of Dotroil, who is Serbian. said he feared the fighting would be drawn oul. 
"I don't likn it. People will gnl killed. I don't bclievn even President Clinton undnrstands the situation," Tomich said. 
Slavko Panovic. president of the Serbian National Defense Council in Chicago. said he was "sh(l(:ked" at the actions of llm United States. 
"It's a shame. I nevnr thought I would sne the day that my beloved country of America would bomb such a small countrv like Serbia," he said. • 
"It's a tragedy. A modern tragPdy." 
In Ohio, Agim AJrami Bajrami said NATO should havn taken action earlier. 
"I think NATO is right to bomb Urn SPrbian military l'on:e," said Baj ram i. an Albanian. "Tlwy should have attacknd Parlier. It would havn saved more rwoplo's livns." 
Bajrami nmigratccl from Albania to Clevoland eight months ago, joining about 2,000 Albanian emigrns in the city. llis mollwr, two brothers and a sister livo in Albania. 
¦ THAILAND 



Nation starts AlDS vaccine trial 
A'iSOClATED PRESS 
BANGKOK 
The first large-scale trial of an AIDS vaccine in a developing country began Wodnesday with six former drug adctkts showing up for the shots at a Thal medical center. 
The AIDSVAX vaccine being tested is produced by VaxGen Inc., a California-based company. Last June, the company started the world's first trial of the vaccine in the United States with a planned 5,000 volun­teers. 
Although about 30 possible AIDS vncclnes .tre being developed, AIDSVAX is the only product that has roached so-called Phase Three test­ing, which involves large-scnle tests on humans. 
''We hope it will be a success because we have already passed the first and second phases." said Dr. Kajit Chupanya, the Thai projoct direclor. 
Such experiments involve injecting the potential vaccine in pe.ople, such as intravenous drug users, who are likely to get the AIDS virus and then seeing whether they get it. 
Some 2,500 volunteers will be needed for the Thai experiment, all of whom will rece1ve education nnd counsoling to try to roduce tho levels of infection. . 
About 5 percent of the group would normally become infected with HIV, or human immunodeficiency virus, every year. The first results are expected in about 30 mooths. 
Half the volunteers will t'eceivo the vaccine, while the other half will be given a. pln.cebo. ThEI test will cost up to $9 milliou, with most of Lhe money coming from Va.xGen. Inc. The volun­teers, who will get a series of seven injections. are paid a token fee for expenses. 
"I'm happy to be able to do this and to make somo contribution to soci­ety," said a volunteer who asked that his name not be used. 
The vMclne being tested in 
Thailand is different from the prod­uct used in the United States. to match the different strains of HIV that exist in Thailand. 
ln the Unitod States. 53 clinics. uni­versities and medical centers are testing the vaccine. including sites in Baltimoro, Chicago, D,rnvcr, Los Angeles, New York, Philadelphia. St. Louis and San Francisco. About 1,500 people have sig,rnd up a,'.ross tho nation and VaxGnn is hoping for 5,000 by summer. 
Thailand ha.s been rnvag•1d by AIDS. in largo part because of its freewheeling sex industry. 
A spoknsman for a hospice outside Bangkok that houses suvllrnl hundred people who carry Urn IIIV vims said interest there was keen. 
"Patients lrnre follow rwws of tlrn vaccine trial." said Chalermpol Polmuk. 'They want to know tho lat­est developments. and how it might help them. Wn all hopo that somnday we will have a t:nedicine thal will pre­vent the spread of HIV.'' 

page6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 25, 1999 
Senate 
continued from page 6 
"Instead. we decided to focus our energy on some­thing that we had the most s11ppnrt for." slrn said. 
The first resolution was a request that the Office uf Student Affairs ro-rvaluate the punishmnnts l'or first time parietal violation, which stu­d c nts rnportcd WPre too severe. Gloss was quick to warn, however, that her com­rnittc11 was opposed to using fines as a means of punish­ment and supported using community scrYice hours instead. 
"We don't want to sec lines inflicted for violations," she said. 
Oihcr senators agreed. "I don't see fines as a true prnalty," said Dillon senator 
Jason Linster, "because it hurts some people more than others." 
The seconcl resolution focused on extending pari­etals during breaks and Junior Parents' Weekend. 
Keough Hall senator Brian 0'Donoghue predicted diffi­culties in the implementation of' the resolution, howi,ver. 
"The rectors are going to say that it's going 1.0 be dif'l'i­cu It to staff the halls over breaks," he said. Part of the reason that parietals are pushed back during breaks, he said. was to relieve the pressure of those hall staff members that stay during those weeks. 
The last resolution dealing with parietals was one that sought ear.lier hours on tlrn mornings of home football games. 
All three resolutions were unanimously approved. 
Opinion of Parietal Punishments 
*Based on Student Senate Survey 3/99 




,:-•-. 
. . \. t •.•. . •.
.\.... ' .. , ,, . .. .'' ' ' 
~ " .,,. \ ..,_ "i -, i ,' ,: . i < ., ''. ; "iJ •' : 

Can 
Presenters: 
C.1c,1 S.:hdc/ 1;\JD '83). Comrnunity Organidn!! Ai/iscin ,\..(,tnni (~D '95} •---Latl::io Cornrnunil:y CJiris Nand (\'D '88) -Ecl11cati,m 


SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Hey, I think I've seen that before 



A great-tasting deal that's easy to get hooked on. 
The delicious BK BIG FISH, Value Meal. A crispy fish filet copped with fresh lettuce and tangy tartar sauce plus medium fries and medium drink. 
$3.59 
The Muddle -Lafortune Student Center 
BURGER 
ICING 
It just tastes• better. 

©1998 Burger King Corporation. Burger King Corporation 1s the exclusive licensee of the registered BK BIG FISH and Bun Halves logo trademarks. 
I 
page 7

Ilinrsday, March 25, 19')9 The Ohserver • CAMPUS NEWS 


Students to visit Belize, Guatemala in summer 
By KYLE ANDRFWS Nnvs W111<·1 
Mayan ard1a(•11log-y. frnpind rai111'orc·sts. spot!rd PaglP rays :1 nd II harriPr l'l'PI'. 
For stwlP11ls Pllrolkd i11 lhP NPol.ropinil Natural I listory. 1h1•s1• an• things thr•_y'II PXJll'f'i­('fH"P this summi•r. 
111 illl allPlllpt to givc stud1111ls 1111iq111• hands-on hiology nxpn­ri1•rn·1•. Lill' llt1i\'l'rsily is offc•ri11g a 1wt-so-lypiral rlass in tl!'otropind n;1t11ral history wil.h lrips lo a11dr•11I Maya11 sitPs, tropirnl rai11f'or1•sls and a harri­
PI" l'Pl'f 
liwry su11111wr. slud1•11ts l'rom Notrl' Danw and Saint Marv's takP an adv1•11turi• as th.cy PXplon• !Ill' lrnpical prnsyst,ims ol' Hnliz1• and Cuati•nHda. St.1HIPnls in this tl1rn1H'.rt>dit rlass lnarn ol' ro111mo11 and 1•rnfangPn•d indigi•no11s spP1'i1is l'irslhand hy visiting s11l<•ct 11ati1111nl parks and r1•s1•rv1's. 
Tl11• p(·ologkal rPsourn•s of 
lkli;,,p and Cuatomala couplml wi1 h tho rogion:a;' nxtnnsiv11 Mayan culturP provide an in­cli'plh biologii:1tl opportunily, said William Ilamlntt, assodat1\ prol'nssor of' biology and the courso's instructor. 
"It's a one,, in a lil'ntimn opportunity that combines rain­fornst biology, Mayan culture and mari1w biology," said ll11111lelt. 
The cottrSP begins with a wl'r~l-.. of prPparatory work at Notr1• Dam,, after which slu­dnnts nrnhark 011 tho fidd por­1.io11 ol' the trip. Tlw lirst half ol' llw fi1•ld ,~xploration conc1in­tratPs 011 1ropkal t1•rrestrial consnrvation biology and Mayan archaoology, whiln tlrn snrond half' l'ocusns on tropical marine consnrvation biology. 
Thfl studPnts begin in Belize with llrn lrnlp of bilingual natur­al history guidos. Tlw main top­ics of study include th1\ savan­na, mountain pi,w ridge and lropical rainforest 
This. along with the variPty of 

Photo courtesy of William Hamlett 
Participants in last summer's Neotropical Natural History class take a breather during a hike through Central American rainforest. Students enrolled in the class study tropical ecosystems and ancient civilizations. 



hahitats available and extensive Mayan ruins, makes Relize the perfect location to study tropi­cal ecosystems and ancient civi­lizalions, according to llamletl. 
During their stay in Belize, students visit a community baboon sanctuary. the Belize Zoo, ancient caves, deep blue pools fed by underground springs in the rainforest and tho Mavan ruins of Caracol and Xunantunich. 
Students then travel to Tikal, Guatemala, home to a restored ancient Mayan cernmonial site dating to approximately 700 
A.D. Included in the ruins arc plazas, an acropolis, pyra­mids, temples and a museum. The ruins are surrounded by rainforcst. llamlett said. 
Afler the students return to their home base in Flores, Guatemala, they conclude the first half of the trip by traviil­ing by boat up the Pasion Hiver to the Mayan site of Ccibal. 
The slutifmts begin the tropi­cal marine conservation biolo­gy half of the program with a return to Belize City. They then travel by boat to Caye Caulker, ·a converted fishing village. where they swim with and feed spotted eagle rays. Atlantic stingrays and nurse sharks. 
The remainder of the course is taught at Ambergris Caye, a large island along the western hemisphere's largest barrier reef and the location of Ho! Chan Marine Reserve, the newest addition to the Carribean's growing treasury of marine natural parks. The students stay at a in the town of San Pedro. 
During this facet ol' the pro­gram. students sample tlrn immense marine biology by snorkeling in turtle grass and manatee grass beds. visiting the mangroves and exploring the world's s<1co1HI largest coral reef. 
Anyone with SCUBA ~t:ertifi­cation will have tho opportuni­ly to dive. 
"It's full contact biology with safety in mind," said Hamlett. 
This is the third year the course has been ofl'ernd at. Notre 0ame, although llaml(Jtl has taught the coursfl at other schools. 
"The single most important thing that students gain is an understanding that the majori­ty of the world doesn't live liko we do," said Hamlett. "The personal social impact is what they come away with." 

TH C No•--,·-m·~--.··e·..:-'-o·----j~!f{~lfiu··. ocN····J·'.~\.ic.ntJC·R··N··MCNT
C /+\JTlil::2i1u -----I: ·.. ·. ::~t}VV;,,a:, .. ·... ·. . a: . 





page 8 The Observer• INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, March 25, 1999 
¦ YUGOSLAVIA 


NATO forces attack cities throughout country 
Associated Press 
BELGHADE 
Wave after wave of NATO war­planes and missiles struck Yugoslavia on Wedrn~sday, pum­meling army barracks, power plants and air defense batteries in an effort to force the country's defiant leader to cease his onslaught against Kosovo Albanians. 
The NATO attack came after months of diplomacy failed to end a year of fighting between Yuguslav forces and ethnic Albanian separatists that has killed more than 2,000 people and left over 400,000 homeless 

THE CUSHWA CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF AMERICAN CATHOLICISM 
~ 
"Recovering the Waterfront: The Hidden History of aFilm Classic" 
Friday. March 26. I 999 
7:30 pm 
McKenna Hall Auditorium Center for Continuing Education 
wilt go se 
in Kosovo, a Yugoslav province. 
"We act to prevent a wider war," President Clinton said in an Oval Oflice address six hours after the attack began. "By act­ing now, we are upholding our values, protecting our interests and advancing the cause of peace." 
Yugoslavia declared a state of war shortly after the first attacks, stepping up the mobi­lization of troops. Lt. Gen. Nebojsa Pavkovic, commander of Yugoslav troops in Kosovo, said 40 targets were hit in the first waves, but he claimed that dam­age was "minimal." 
A pre-dawn siren Thursday in Belgrade apparently signaled the end of the latest alert and, apparently, the first night of bombing. 
Explosions resounded in Kosovo's capital of Pristina start­ing at 7:55 p.m. (1:55 p.m. EST), and the city of 280,000 was plunged into darkness when the electricity failed. The official Tanjug news agency reported four heavy blasts in the city, including three from the area 

of Slatina airport. 
flames consuming wreck­
'By ATTACKING NOW,

More than a age and casting an orange
WE ARE UPHOLDING

dozen explosions glow in the sky. were heard around OUR VALUES, PROTECTING In Belgrade, many mili-Belgrade, the tary-age men left their
OUR INTERESTS AND

Yugoslav capital. homes, spending the night including some near ADVANCING THE CAUSE OF with friends to avoid the Batajnica military draft.
PEACE,'

airport and one "This is serious, but I 
near a power plant. 
Four missiles struck a military aircraft plant at Pancevo, six miles north of Belgrade, destroying several small aircraft. 
In neighboring Montenegro, which with Serbia forms Yugoslavia, an army military barracks in Oanilovgrad was in flames after being hit. One sol­dier was reported killed and three others wounded, officials said. Serbian TV said several civilians were wounded in attacks throughout the country. 
Montenegro's pro-Western leader, Milo Djukanovic, blamed Yugoslav President Slobodon Milosevic for the attacks, calling them "the tragic consequences of an irrational policy of confronta­tion with the entire world." 
The central Serbian town of Kragujevac, a major military-industrial center, was plunged into darkness early Thursday morning after one heavy explo­sion was heard, the private news agency Beta reported. 
Reporters were not immediate­ly able to get to the targets to examine the effects of the strikes. 
The center of Belgrade was quiet and unhit, and state-media 

station, and beyond it 
don't want to be killed BILL CUNTON without knowing why," PRESIDENT said Filp Pavicevic, 30, as 
reported early Thursday that the air alert had been called off. 
But at least four more cruise missiles were later fired from two U.S. ships in the Adriatic: Sea, the first from the vessels since the attack began six hours earlier. 
NATO bombing targets were spread throughout the country. In Kosovo, the targets appeared to be at least 15 miles from Pristina, in areas where it is dan­gerous to travel at night. 
During the bombardment, about 30 foreign journalists on the roof of the Hyatt Hotel in Belgrade were detained by police. All but one were later released. CNN said those detained included four of its pro­ducers and photographers. A Washington Post reporter was also arrested early Thursday in his hotel room, and a hotel clerk told the newspaper that police said the journalist would be expelled from the country. 

Explosions also were heard in the area of Novi Sad in northern Serbia, northwest of Belgrade. Television footage from the town showed debris on a road outside a damaged police 
he packed his bag to take refuge in another apart­ment. 
Scores of cruise missiles and one-ton bombs wern fired at Yugoslav targets. Dozens of war­planes were used, including six 
U.S. 8-52 bombors and two B-2 stealth bombers. 
"We are attacking the military infrastructure that President Milosevic and his forces are using to repress and kill innocent people," U.S. Secretary of Defense William Cohen said in Washington. "NATO forces are not attacking tho ponple of Yugoslavia." · 
A U.S. defense official, speak­ing on condition of anonymity, also said at least two Yugoslav MiG fighters were shot down by NATO warplanes. 
Thursday, March ZS, 1999 
____ ----~_____T_h_e_o_h_se_rv_er_•_I_N_T_E_R_N_A_T_I_O_N_A_L_N_E_W---'-'S:_____r~---_-_-_-_-_-_-:_-_-:_-_-_-_--:._-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_---!..r-=ag-=-e.:::::9 

¦ RUSSIA 
Yeltsin quits NATO partnership 
MOSCOW 

lloris 'frltsi.11 llllikd Bussia out of its partnership wifh NATO 011 W1•d111•sday and warnnd of possihlP furt.lH•i: slPps to prol<'st LIH' airstrikl\s agains1 Yugosiavi.i -al lacks that lw 1·all€'cl do\iply lrouhling. 
If 11H' rn11i'lil'l grows. l{ussiu rPstirves tlw righl lo lak" "ad1•q11alP 1111,asurns, including ol' a military 1:harn1·1.-r, lo i•nsun• its own and g1•1rnral 1-:uropPan sp1•111·ily," YPltsin said al'fpr airstrik1:s hPgan. 
llis slatl'llll'lll did not f'lahornl1i. 
"llussia is d1wply upsnt. hy NATO's military act.ion a!-{ainst sov11r<'ign Yugoslavia, wliirh is 1111tl1i11g morl' than o))Pll aggn•ssion." 'frltsin said. 
.\lwut I 'iO Hussians prol1•sl­
ing lllf' ai.rstrikPs galhl'n·d al Yugoslav President tlt1· ll.S. 1-:inhassv in Moscow Slobodan Milosevic. lat.1• \v,,<1111\sdav, Hussia has given no 


shoII ti 11 g a 11 li -/\ mPr iI' a 11 s Ii,• gn11s and tlirowing 1~ggs. 
N,,TO au.arks hPgan a fnw hours al'IPr YP!t.sin spokP with I' r l's id I' 11 I Cl iII Io II l'o r rn or P tl11111 half an hour hy phonP. urging him 1101 t11 lak,· Liu\ "tl'Hgi1· sti•p" of hornhing. 
Y,1 11~i11 ,d,;o callPd ,.or an imnwdiat(' s1ission of llw 
11.N. S,·rnrilv Coun("il. 
llussia haft,.cl military co,1p(\rali1111 with NATO and pull!'d out of 1!11• al!i,1111•p's l'ar11wrship !'or l'('ur1•, a program dPsignPd to pronwl1\ military and politfral 1·001wration lH'tWcPn tlw W1•st and fornwr Smit-! hl,w counlrins. 
l·oll11wi11g a lll«'Pling \vith Nt\TO Srn:rntary-Gnnnrul .lavit>r Solana latn WPclrwsday, Hussia's ambassador lo NATO, S1•rgPi Kislyak, said rwgoliations on op1m­ing Ni\TO military missions in Bussia had been post­po II !'!I. 
Y1•1lsi11. whn has lwPn ailing, was at tlw Krnmlin 011 \'\',,cJnPsdav !'or tlw first limn in rwarlv a lll!llllh. Ill' ;1rdc-rl'd llll' meal! ol' Bussia's chid' rnili­lary 1·nv11y to N/\TO, l.t. (;Pl!. Viktor Zavarzin, and thB rlosur.-of l!ussia's offices at Nt\TO headquarters in B1•lgium. 
Hussia has velwnwnlly opposnd tlrn usn ol' force against its ally Yugoslavia for a military crackdown on Pthnk Albanians in the province of Kosovo. 
Tlw Hussian leadPr said it was "incomprehensible" that N/\TO would carry out an attack without receiv­ing authorization from llrn U.N. Security Council. 
In Washington, lkfenso Secretary William Cohen said lln hopnd Moscow's opposition to the 11.ltar:k.'> wouldn't impair U.S.-Hussian tins. 
"We will continun to work with the Hussians on thos(\ .tl'(ias of mutual interests, whatever differences w,• havn," Cohen said. 
Meanwhile, Yugoslavia's ambassador to Hussia, Borislav Milosevic, claimP.d his country was ready to rnsume pcmct\ talks with U.S. special envoy Hichard llolbrooke. 
Yugoslavia wants to "pr,acol'ully solvP. the problems and continue ta Iks o n l h 11 p oIi tic a I agrel~ment." said Milosevic, thn brother of 
sign  it  wants  to  get  
involved  111 ilitarily  in  
Yugoslavia.  although  
Roms Ym.7'.~'JN  Russia's foreign minister  
RUSSIA,\' Plil:SmHNT  hintncl that Moscow maypush for the lif'ting of the  
internalional  arms  

!lllllmrgo against the country. 
Hussia might OV<!n consider withdrawing from the arms nmhargo unila.tl!rally, Foreign Minister Igor Ivanov said. 
Communist loador Gennady Zyuganov, whoso party. clominal!is Hussia's parliament, said Hussia should withdraw from tlrn embargo now and provide arms to Yugoslavia. 
lln also told lho lntorfax news agency that Russia should slep up its nuclear missile programs. Despite Russia's opposition to NATO strikes, its options appear limited. 
Hussia is desperately seeking new loans from the lnttirnational Monetarv Fund to revive an economy that's been in dee"p recession. 
Prime Minister Yevgeny Primakov's primary aim on a trip to Washington this week was to secure -the loans. But Primakov ordered his plane to turn around over the Atlantic Ocean on Tuesday night when it became clear that pP-ace talks in Yugoslavia had failed. 
At a news conference Wednesday, Cohen said he hoped Primakov would reschedule his visit. 
¦ UNITED KINGDOM 

Pinochet denied 
llllfilUDity 
Associat~d Press 
LONDON 
lu a precedent-setting ruling cheered by both his detractors and his supporters, Britain's highest court on Wednesday denied Gen. Augusto Pinochet immunity from arrest, but threw out almost all the charges lovolod against him. 
The former Chilean dictator now faces only tht·i:w of 32 counts for crimes alJP-gedly committed during his 1973-90 reglrntl: torture, conspiracy to torture and conspiracy to murder. 
In a 6-1 dP-dsion, the House of Lords dismissed the remaining 29 counls in a Spanish warrant seek• ing his extradition, saying he could not lrn held accountable for acts of torture committed before 1988, when Brituin signed a law making it an toternntional crime. 
Pinochet, 83, must remain in Britai.n under police guard while Spain seeks his extradition on the remaining counts. But the court said Home Secretary Jack Straw should reconsider whether to allow the extradition prol'ess to go for­ward in light ol' thn grMtly rnduced cas1i. 
"Tho basis of this case has now changed and now there is really not much left.'' said Louise Dolahunty, an f)Xtrndition expert with tho London law firm of Potors and Peters. which is not connect­ed with the case. 
In Chile, a close associate of Pinochet. retired Gen. Luis Cortos. said the l'ormer dictator "is very happy because this ruling has made justice." 
After speaking with Pinochet by phone, Cortes said, "He now has no doubts whatsoever that he will come back home." 
Chile's president, whose government had protest­ed the arrest, also praised the decision. 
The ruling mark1~d the first time a national court has denied immunity to a foreign head of state accused of an intPrnational crime. 
Legal experts said it should put }mads of state on notice that they could be at risk when they leave power -and when they leave their own countries. 
Pinochet was arrested in London Oct. 16 on a Spanish warrant. 

Name Brand Items from: Champion~ adidas ,-._; JanSport ,-._; Gear for Sports,-._; MV Jackets/Sweatshirts/T-Shirts/Polos/Shorts 









Located In The Old Hammes Bookstore Building March 25th-27th Thursday/Friday 9am-6pm Saturday 9am -5pm For Information Call 631-6316 









VIEWPOINT 

-----------------Thursday, March 25, 1999
page 10 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME 0F!'ICE: l'.0. Box Q, J\iotre Dame, [N 46556 (219) 631-7471 


1999-2000 GENERAL BOARD 
EmTOR-IN-CHIEF Michdle Krupa MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
M. Shannon Ryan Dave-Rogero 
AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR Laura Petdlc 
NEWS EDITOR .............................. Tim Logan ADVERTISING MANAGER.....................Bryan Lutz VIEWPOINT EDITOR............Colleen Gaughcn Ao DESIGN MANAGER ...............Kenneth Kearney SroRTS EDITOR ..........................Brian ~s.:iler SYSTEMS MANAGER........................Michacl Revers SCENE EDITOR...................... Michad Vaneg,s CoNTROI.I.ER..................................Timochy Lane SAINT MA.RY'S EDITOK.......Coll«"n McCarthy GRAPHICS EOITOR..............................Joc Mueller PHOTO EDll'OR ......................Kevin Dalum WEB ADMINISTRATOR.......................Erik Kushto 
The Ob.o;;erver i:; chc indepc-ndem nt"WSpaper rublished by the srudenrs of rhc Univcnity ofNotre Dame du Lac a11d Sai 111 M;iry's Collrge. Ir Joe5 nor ncccss.irily rctJcct the policie:s of rhc a<lminisirarion oftither insnruri<m. The news i.r; reported a.r; accumdy .mJ objcctivdy .ii. possible. Uhsigned editorials repre~c-nt the opimon ofthe majomy of the 
Edi1or-in-Chicf, Managing Editor. Assii.ranr M,uuging Ediror ,.md <lepanm.:m cdiro~. Commcnrarie.,;, lc:rter~ ,md column!> present the view!> of rh( ,uuhor~ and not neces.r;arily those ofTht.: Obsct"ler. Vit!Wp<,inr. \-1'.LCe is .ivailahlc co al! 
membct~ of du, Notre D,11ne/S,1int M,try's comnumity anJ to all readers. The free t.'Xpres.-.ion ofvarying opiniom 
through lerrers ii; encouraged. 
Contacting The Observer 
Editor•in-Chief 631-4542 Office Manager/General Jnform.rion 631-7471 Managing Editor/Assistant ME 631-4541 Business Office 631-5313 News 631-5323 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Vicwpoim 631-H<l3 Systems/Web Admini<traror 631-8839 Spo1ts 631-4543 Fax 631-6927 Scene 631-4540 Ad E-Mail observer@d,rwin.cc.nd.edu Sa0inr Mary's 631-4324 New, E-Mail observer.obsncws.l@nd.edu Phoro · 631-8767 Viewpoint E-Mail oLscrvc.:r.virwpoint.l@nd.edu 

¦ LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Stone Cold Attitude at The Rock Needs To Go 
I am very reluctant to make this com­pardon the sarcasm: I do understand college. Why don't you figure it out?" My woman's constantly poor attitude plaint as 1do not normally complain her reaction to a degree because I did friends and I did not know how to react toward my and other students' sHeming about poor service, but this poor service force her to take time out of her "sitting to this, so we stood in front of her look-incompetence with the computer login has occurred on several occasions, each and watching television" time. ing baffled. Once again she rudely told system and the various hours of opera­time with no apology or polite instruc­The second occasion was March 14. I us, "Because of your spring break, we tion of the facilities. tion on correct procedure. remembered that the pool did not open don't have lifeguards tonight." This is only a suggestion, and perhaps 
My complaint regards a particular until 9 p.m. and thought of the wrath I do not live far from the Rockne this has already been attempted. but 
woman who watches the front desk and that would befall me if I for-___________ M.emorial, so I did not why doesn't she enter our destinations supervises the computer login system at got this fact. mind being and needed equipment into the comput­the Rockne Memorial. I do not· know her 
turned er? This way, slrn can avoid our annoy­name. She is not a student but an older _-:-1[rvA~ ing difficulties with the system in addi­woman. I do not demand "service with a tion to screening our attempts to swim smile," or 1wen "service with happi­in unguarded wat,\rs. Those arc 
~ 
ness," but I do expect at the very ~~ only two of many unpleasant least a cordial demeanor _..............~ Pxperiences that I and many when visiting the facility. ~ of my frinnds have had. 
My specific complaints ~-. When relaying this have to do with her most recent exp1m­handling or two situa­'--"' cnc1! Lo one of my 
tions during which I -~ f'ri(111ds, l~e did 11ot 
was not aware of -,_---·_./ know of whom I the pool's hours of ~.,,,. ~ was spnaking operation. I __) ~ ·1111111!!!~~~ wh<rn I ickntifiPd remember two \~ ~ lwr as only,."tlw spPci!ic occasions. -----~\\ ~ woman b<'h111d 
The first was tlw dPsk." !IP
1

several weeks ago. did, howevPr, 
I had just begun 
know her wlwn I swimming regularly r __,,.--told him about lwr in the evening and ~ rud('ness. 'I his 
decided one day to ~ complaint is noL 
swim at about 8:15 p.m. ,/meant to sound like 
By the time of this visit, I '·whining. and I assure 
l~ 
J 

had learned that it is not to • yo~ that thcsc chargns am my advantage to engage this · not without grounds.//
woman in conversation because I do not exaggerate whnn I she would most likely have given a say that I have never had a pleasant rude reply to my "Hello," or "How am expr,rience with this woman. She scnms 
you?'' The pool does not open until 9 to believe that evervone should know 
p.rn. I now know because this woman exactly how to use the computer login
Because ~ >-;,;.y aud. 
very rudely gestured in the direction of this occurred so ------~=---=-----'· having to walk system, know the opening and closing the pool schedules at the end of the recently, I remember the exact back to my dorm. I realize and take schedules of all of the fu1:ilitics and on counter and snapped (again rudely), exchange. I arrived just before 9 p.m., responsibility for my oversight in the top of all of this, never make a mistake. "Maybe you should try reading it some­swiped my ID card and entered "swim-pool's hours. And I understand that the time." ming pool" and "towel" on the comput-Rockne Memorial t;annot allow me to Kent Nelson 
I do not know what my expectations er screen, to which this woman replied, swim without a lifeguard on duty for lia-Fre,hm,111 
for that encounter would have been, but "The i1ool's not open tonight." bility reasons. Also, despite my disap-Dillon Hall 
her response seemod to me somewhat I was not aware of any special spring-pointment that I could not swim that March l 5, 1999 
uncalled-for since I had made the fatal break hours. so I asked, "Why not?" She day, I knew l could swim the next and 
mistake of coming to the Rockne without sighed deeply and rolled her eyes before probably most nights after that. 
exact pool opening times in mind. Please challenging me with,"Well, you go to I do not understand, however, this 
GARRY TRUDEAU
¦ DOONESBURY 
I JUSTIAJ4N7l;t7 alfY'W

/JliAN&I/.AN'3"? IT'5/IOTt-lK£
'll}!<N(W/UfA~ >WlHINK?
60TAM/N­
Ir£TAt/JT
7 GOIN3QVt<JITl-{ IT~ 7He 
Of'Re6PECT,
THl3HIR5. {,(JJ,(y '~!LA~ 
/317H&..
AR£ FAaJLTY NO~ 
\
(JeJNG7REATW RJJ/liS.,.ti!<& !ief?F,? I 
\ 
¦ 0.UOTE Of THE DAY 
, people see God every­day; they just don't recognize Him.' 
-Pearl Bailey 




VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, March 25, 1999 ------------------
---------------------------page 11 
¦ LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Morrissey Rector Pays Student Apathy Traps Tribute to Macleod Irish Basketball Morale 
Blif'or,i 11ssig11111Pnt to Notrn Damo, I was l'or1unatl' 1•11ough to spnnd 12 ynars Lnadiing high school and some vears in administrntfon as dopart­i1H•11I !'liairman and assistant princi­pal. I did a grnal dPal of lnaching and af'lf'r grnduaL«' work and train­ing, a:.~i~L,·d l'Pllow t1•a<·lwrs in tlwir PITorts to impart know!Pcl!;H to stu­cfpnts. I lrn\·1• bc•l'n in many class­rooms. :-.PPB 111a11y toadw,:s in action llll(I know good 1,:al'11ing wlwn I Mlt1 iL 
Coar.hi11g an athlPlir tna111 dons not rlilfrr rmwh f'rom lnarhing in a class­room. Tl10ugh Llrn spaco may be dil'­h•rt•nt. all tlrn Hssnnlial elpnwnts or instruction apply. I havn had tlw privilog(• or attending many uthldic prartin•s lmrn al Notre Damn. bnlh m,1k a11rl fl'mak. and haw sewn our ,:oaduis ill artion. I havP also u<Wll 011 tlw lwnch as chaplain and hav•i St't•11 11mnv ol' our coadws direct ll'ams 1luri11g games and lllltke arljusLnwnts during linw-outs and lwtw1•1•n 1}('riods. On tlw wholl•, the IPvl'I of i11stnwlio11 that our student­alhllltl•s n•ceiv11 is of a high quality. Norw. hmvPvPr, con11• closP lo hning tlli, tPadwr that John MacLnod is. 
.lnhn Marl.nnd was always prn­pan•d as a IPadrnr, always pffnctivt• as a rommunicator, always patient and always positive as n coach. tic ,·an•d for his playt•rs. his assistant l'oadws. 11w11agurs and trai1wrs and IIJosP who workl'cl in llw ollicP. /\II had tlw opporlllnity to IParn l'n,m a rnastl'r tmwhcr and a man who is 

+ 

ltw ,•pitonw of a dass act as a human IJPing.
Ir I wl'n' a parPnl, I would seek out a college or university that employed m<'n and women like John MacLeod and make it a priority to send my son or daughtl'!' tlwrn. It rnrnains to be seen if an increase in possible basketball wins o!Tsl'LS our currm1t real loss. 
Rev. William D. Seetch, C.S.C., '74 and '78 Rector, Morrissey Manor March 2 1 , 1999 

I have attended most of' tho Notrn Dame men's basketball ganrns since tho Joyce Ccntcr was built. so I think I have a prntty good fop\ for what is wrong with the program. It nnnds more than a new coach. .lohn Macl,eod has taken far too much of' the blame. ND ncods a st.udnnt body that will support both llw nrnn's arid wonrnn's l!\ams -win or losl'. In this respect, the studnnb an\ a patht\tic group that doesn't deserve a winrwr! 
It appearn<l that most students either could not pull themselves out of' lrnd or stop playing with their computers long enough to walk across tlrn street l'or a Sunday aftnr­110011 gamn on Snnior Day to chmir for their fellow stud<!nts against Boston College. That's r<1ally sad! The place should havt\ hmm packml. but the students must havn he1~11 "too busy" to show propor support for thn players thny livn and attend class with. 
No wondnr the coaches have had trouble recruiting morn good play­ers. They want to play for a school where the students attend games and show some enthusiasm rngarrl­less of the final score. I wonder if any students have ever thought that some decent support might havn resulted in a fnw moni wins and per­haps an National Invitational Tournament bid this ynar. My gw\ss is that they don't care! 
On Senior Night for tlrn excellent women's team, Urn band and cheer­leaders far out-numhnred tho stu­
dents. Muffet McGraw must wonder what they want. A Top 10 finish with a 26-5 record deserves much better support from a student body than this. The Purdue women's games (just 90 miles away) are usually close to sellouts, yet Muffet has to beg students to attend games that her girls seldom lose. No one could blame her if she went to a school where students appreciate good basketball. The new men's coach had better be a genius because he will be coming to a school where the students cannot handle losses. He will be shocked when only 200 or so show up after his team's first loss. 
Bob Corson Leesburg, Ind. M;irch 22, 1999 


Just Because It's 'Legal' Doesn't Mean It's 'Right' 
i\s Catrimrn WilkiP's twil acrnmplicn in trying to "bring down llw Wonwn's lfosourre Cenlpr" /which is rwws lo 11sl. I fo<il lhe rnwd to rnspond to both Ms. Anwrosa's and profossor Manier's objections to Catriona's 1·11lum11 of March 24. Although I found nach rPsponsP intnrc!sting, they fail to rnrngnizn certain cru­cial asp,,cts of tlw isstw. 
i\pparnntly, Ms. /\mnrnsa's grnatnsl criticism of Catriona's ldtrir is that shn likons thu WHC referring wmncn for aborlion to thn Of'tir.e of Drug and Alcohol 1•:ducation dirnrting students to drug dni1lnrs. As Ms. Amorosa aslutnly points out, "That would bn endorsing an 11.LECAL action. Wn all know, however, that abnr­tioII is legal." 
Ms. i\morosa's dbtinction is valid. It implies, howev­nr, that tlw trun test or wlwtlrnr soniething is right or wrong is wlwtlwr or not it is legal. That is ,tn extrnmc­ly dangerous assumption. .lust as wti ,ill know Uwl abortion is legal now, we all know that slavery was ll'gal Parly in our nation's history. Most of us would bn 11lt1•rly outraged if' Wfl wPrn discover that lhn Univtirsity of' Nolrn Danw had at one point. ownerl a large planta­tion that ulilil.t\d slavr, labor. Would Ms. /\morosa lhen rnndonn thnir at:tions simply because slavory was legal al. tlw limn'! I didn't think so. So why am you using that arguuwnt lO dcfond the abortion roforrals at the WIH:'? 
U111'orl1111ately. Llw comparison between slavery and abortion is II vnry apl ono. In tho past, somnono was not a pnrson lwcausn llrny had dark skin. Now they arn not people l.i1inwsc they arc not old onough. 
Ms. /\rnorosa also uses the WHC probation to claim that W!\ an\ forcNI to "chcr,k our legal rights at the door" wlwn wn nntl'r this University. Correct me if I'm wrong, hut not giving someone the right to refer wonwn for abortion docs not conslitute depriving wonwn of' thn right to an abortion! hll'tlrnrmorn, Urn Univcirsity has <Wery right to say what goes on in n cen­Wr that it owns and l'unds. In America, we have the legal right to an abortion (wlrnther Catriona, I, or the Catholic Church likes it or not). I cannot deny that. But can you deny that, as a private institution, the University has the right to say that it won't let its money and property bn used to direct women to abor­tion services? The University is not taking away a woman's right to an abortion. It is only practicing its legal right to dctermine what goes on in a private insti­tution. There is a crucial distinction between women having a right to abortion and a private institution (with an inherent and foundational ideological objec­tion to abortion) being obligated to actively participate in helping women procure abortions. In the U.S., we also have a right to bear arms, but no one would sug­gest that the University of Notre Dame is acting unfair­ly if it doesn't actively help oach of its students pur­chase a gun. 
i\s for her comment that Uw WHC provides "solidari­ty and support" for women, well, all I can say is that when I went in thern I was only given names and addresses of abortion clinics (and that hardly qualifies as solidarity and support). I went in, askPd a few ques­tions, got a few addresses and then I walked out. If they truly cared about my health, you'd think that they'd at least offer information on what abortion actu­ally does to a woman's body and the (possibly fatal) physiral risks ol' having orni. I fail to sefl how that is reaching out to me in my time ofncr,d. ObYiously, all they wp,re interested in was getting me to the abortion clinic. They evnn provided Catriona with directions to one. 
Professor Manier points out that neithflr Catriona nor myself "allege or offer evidence suggesting the Wile proactively recommended or counseled abortion as the solution to their 'problems."' Allow me to translate that for everyone: the women at the WHC did NOT say "I think you should get an abortion" or "Why don't we talk about this." Professor Manier is right. What they DID do, however, is assume that we were pregnant and tell us exactly where to get an abortion. They even wrote down two addresses for me and offnred to call a clinic. They offered to take Catriona's phone numlwr and have a clinic call her. It would take either a ridicu­lous strntch of the imagination or somn acrobatic semantics to say that is not a rnforral. 
Apparently profnssor Manier fnels that Studont Activities is not the group to d11cide wlrnthnr or not the actions of a student group arc appropriate of' a Catholic university. Bather, "the identity or any University, including any Catholic univnrsity, should be established by statutes requiring !'acuity participation in such decision." In other words, as a mmnbPr of thn Faculty Senate, he wants dncisions about students' activities to be made by thn faculty, not Stucl1mt Activities. It seems to me that this is not a matter of' academics at all. 
Allow me to offer a possible third party f'or determin­ing wheUH\r or not the WHC's actions WPrc appropriatn in light of Notre Dame's Catholic identity: tlrn Catechism of' thtl Catholic Church. Surnly, that may l:w considered a fairly definitive source on what the Church leaches. Allow me also to citn the Catechism to elucidate the Church's teaching on abortion: "God. the Lord of' life, has entrusted to mnn thn noble mission of safeguarding life, and men must carry it out in a man­ner worthy of' themselves. Lifo must bn protected with the utmost cam from the moment of conception: abor­tion and infanticide are abominable crimes"(2271). 
By removing "information or refcronce !read: rnl'Pr­ral] on how to obtain an abortion," NoLrn Dame answered God's call t.o truly respect and protect /\LL human life, both in theory and in practice, 
Christine Gabany Senior Pangborn Hall March 24, 1999 



-------------------March 25, 1999
Voices of angels spring a L 
By PETER RICHARDSON Scene Wrircr 
Chances arc you'll bear them at least once while you're at Notrt> Dame. 
Maybe walking µust the old Earl.h Sciences build­ing Tuesday night. you heard their sonorous melodins flowing through tho air. If you go to tlrn Basilica of the Sacred Heart on Sundays, you're bound to hear onP of their stirring n~nditions. And if you just participated in Junior Paronts' Weekend, Uwn you h<lard this group of 65 undergraduates and graduatPs perform. 
ThHy arc the Notre Dame l.iturgiral Choir. First forn11'.d in ·197:~. tlw choir is one of the most visibl,~ musical groups at the University. Bcsidos serving at Llw 10 a.m. Solemn Mass at Urn basilica on Sundays, tlw l'hoir performs Ht weddings, Sunday Vespers, dndicatiDns. ordinations. Advent lessons and carols, Junior ParPnts' Weekend and tlw University BaccalaureatP Muss. 
The choir also travels both domestically and abroad. ln 1995. tlrnv took their first international trip. visiting \!!ilan. l{onrn, Florence and Assisi and singing the high Latin Mass at St. Peter's Basilica. This May. tlrn choir will return to Europe, perform­ing in Paris at tlw Notre Danrn Cathedral, Chartres, Hnims and at Li•Mans. France. the home of the Congregation of' tlw Iloly Cross. 
Thinking of' Angels 

WIJPn Sarah Murray, president and four-year nwmhcr of tlrn Liturgical Choir, thinks about the inlltwnce the choir has on people, stories can't help but spring to mind. 
Murray recounti>d tfw story of' some inner-city youth who listened to the Liturgical Choir's CD along vvith those of Billy Joel and some other popular artists. The students were asked to dose their eyes. music to a larger audience. from Westminster Choir College. She WPnt on to tlw listen to the music and then sham what it was they "We create a prayerful mood f'or them," said Eastman School of Music: in Hoclrnster. N.Y., for her thought or when they heard the music. Murray Murray. graduatn and doctoral studiPs. Walton lrnld tlw posi­recalls wistfully that. after the children had listened Creating this mood for as broad an audience as tion of assistant director or tlw rhoir !'or six yPars to th11 choir, thn first word out of their mouth was possible is one of the foremost missions of the choir. before taking the position slrn now holds. "angels." Through travel, the choir meets their broader mis­Walton sees the choir's mission as orw that is pro­
With the success of the CD's Gregorian chants and sion to bring their music and its message to the foundly Christian, both in the nxperiencn of tlw choir the Liturgical Choir's own three releases, it is appar­community outside Notre Dame. members and the experience of' the audiPnce mem­ent that lyrics don't always matter. Wlrnn the music The significant effect the music of the choir has on bers. sung is in Latin, listfrners and singers alike are its listeners is found in numerous stories the mem­"Morn than a choral experience. I think it's a faith called to appreciate the music in different ways. bers have of audience members approaching the experience !'or the members," said Walton. 
"It's broadened my mind and my Pxperience of' choir after performances. For Murray, this experi­For the audiences who hear the choir perform. music," said Murray. ence became most personal when her father both in the basilica and while the group is abroad. 
Whatever the listeners get out of the music, many approached her after one of' the choir's Easter Walton holds similar sentiments. memlrnrs find tlw choir to be a profoundly Christian Masses. "Anybody who heard the choir sing would have no group. Catriona Wilkie, a senior in the choir. "My father isn't a very spiritual man in the sense doubt as to whern the faith lies," said Walton. explained the choir's mission. that he's not very emotional," she said. "But after "Music takes people to a different apprnciation of 
"llt isl to creatt1 an atmosphere of beauty in which the Mass he walked up to me and said, 'Sarah. that the liturgy." people can worship," she said. was the most incredible experience of my life."' Part of this different apprnciation is found in tlw 
But she added that the group is still one of wide variety of music the choir performs. Walton "Christian prayer and friendship," a sentiment she Liturgical Leadership plans the choir's repertoire on a four-ynar rotation said is held by many members. It is because of this Despite the key role she plays in the choir, director so that members are always given an opportunity to group's religious focus, she added. that many of the Gail Walton prefers to give her praise to the choir perform and arc consistently challenged by music members chose it over other singing groups. members. they probably never have heard or sung. In addition 
Although the music sung by the group is of a pro­"If I left tomorrow, that choir would go on," said to the more classical music of composers like Mozart f'oundly Christian nature, Murray finds that its reli­Walton. and Beethoven, the choir also performs chant. gious appnal of'ten transc!mds questions of religious A doctor of organ performance, Walton got her polyphony, baroque and traditional African music. background, which allows the group to bring their undergraduate degree, also in organ performance, Choir members are encouraged to bring in music 


. 
J 

l'hursday, March 25, I999 ---------------------page 13
OBSERVER 



urgical Choir 
l'ro111 11iorP modPrn ,·rnnposnrs. ;\t tlw mid ol' it 1111. Walton says shn wants lwr mnrn­lwrs lo be· abl1• to say tlwy'VP sung "nvPry­thi11g." 
Wallon snPs lwr mission with tlw l'hoir 11w1nlH'rs as a 1·onli1111ation ol' tlw lilwral. ~piritual uml i11l!'il<'1·t11al Pdtll'ation Uwy l'l't'l'iVP al Nolrt• Dmrn•. 
"I II I is prPparing Nolrl' llarnl' sl11dPnls for adult <:hrislianily," shl' addr'd. 
But llPr l'avorit,, part ol' thl' rhoir will always lit> tlH' liturgy. Shi' spokn or tlw gr1•al1'sl r1'ward sh1• r1'1·PiVPS f'r11111 tlw choir. 
"I II i~I lll'ing alil<' to sing tlw grPalnst l'l1url'l1 nn1si(' ••v1•r wrilll'!l, in thP hasilica, with pt'opli; who l!Plil'VI'." 
S1•a of' Light 

l·or llll'llllll'rs of llw 1.iturgiral Choir. tlH• rlHtlH'P lo join a group 111' 11:i Sl'rious singprs is 111'11'11 l'l11111gh 11111tivalion to gPt tlwm to join, Tlll' 1'1111ir is also a l'losP group. 
"Choir has h1•r11m1• 111v f'amilv," said 1\lurrav. · · 
,.\l1111g with !hi' l'a1·t 11ml tilt' rhoir parti<:­ipal1•~ ill SIIJIII' 111' 1111• 11111jor l'Vl'lltS 1111 ('.1Llll­p11s. i11d11di11g !hi' 11p1·111ni11g Mass at th,· I·. d. C,. 111 "r. th,. i1u·" n ti vP for s Pr io II s sillg'l'l'S is strn11g. 
But thl'll lhl'l't's tli1• lill1P issuP. Choir 1111•111lwrs pr:1f'f.ii'1• thn•" linws a WPl'k. on T11Psday and Thursday 1•vP11i11gs l'rorn <, lo 7:4'.i p.111.. and again 1111 Sunday mornings 1'1'11111 al X a.Ill. lllllil !\lass at 10. 
Th1•y· ar<' 1•xp1•1·t1•d t11 hP WPll-rPstPd 1•\·1•rv S1111clav 111orni11g and should thnv si11g· a psal,;1 at !\lass 011 Sunday. ar;, PXpl'1'll'd to alll'tHI mi11i-voi1·1' IPssons at CrnwlPy llall. 
(:h11ir IIIPIIIIH•rs alsll ri•gularly pr>rf'orm at high prolill', high-prPssun• 1•vpnts. t\ncl lhn 11at11n• of thl' 11111sil' till' group sings is lnss 1ha11 forgiving Ill thosl' llll'IIIIH'rs whosr> sl11dil's or otlwr tinll' rnnstrnints k1'np them l'rnm prad.il'i111-; as 11wl'l1 as tlwy should. So what. 1•xa1·1ly. clol's 111akP it all ~11rthwhi]p? 
.l1•r.-111y Ba11Pr, a rri,shman rhoir 1111'111· h1•r. sh,;rf's lhl' sa111I' s1•nti11w11t lwld by 111a11y olhl'r 111P1J1b1•rs of llw group. IIP 11rigi11ally joi&wd hl'raUSI' ol' thP l'hanl'P to si11g ill 1111' hasilira. But walking into prar­tit'P latl' 11111· night. hi' hl'ard thl' \'hoir singing from 0111sidt• tlw lol't whl'n' tlwy Jll'ill'lin•. 
"K1rnwi11g that WI' ht>l1wd SP! that mood." said Ba11Pr, "11wd1· il all worth it." 
M1•rnh1•rs s1wak 111' lh1• rhoir in lPrms of fa111ily. f'l•llow worshippPrs. lil'Plong l'riP1Hls and part11,•rs. TIii' rlwir prnvidl's Llw group o1 rha111•p lo slrn rl'. t·l'll'lira!P and dP<•1w11 1lwir l'aith in a wav !ha! c-01111•s naturally t11 tl11•sf' skillPd singp;·s. · 
"Wo'rn all them l'or tlrn samn rnason," said Wilkie. 
It is this "spirit of' f'nllowship" that linds its lirst spark in oarly-morning practices and thon grows profoundly through the sy1rnrgy or hard work, musical harmony and ultimatnly a sharnd l'aith nxp11rience that. s1wms to most unito this group. The low number or mPmlwrs who quit the group attnst.s to the bond. 

The Observer/ Joe Stark 
Walton plucks the piano and directs the choir 
during an evening rehearsal. 
And tlinrn is always Mass in thn basilica. ;\w1, and wonder crnep into Murray's voice as slw rncalls sitting up i11 thn balcony of llrn basilica during Easter Mass. Tho cav­nrnous building was pitch-black oxcopt for a small point of light. moving slowly from tlw main doors. Thn light was a candle, jusl lit from the Easler candle outside and carriPd by tlw prinsl to tlw f'irsl row of p1·ws. It moved gently from the priest tu tlrn first J)lffson on the aisle. where its 11anw was divided as it lit the candle held by thn snatnd worshippers. 
t\11 tlw worshippers in the church had such candlos and thn light quickly spread from that single point. until it illuminated llll' oncP-dark basilica. Tim sight from the pnws is amazing. But from whore Sarah Murray stood, with the other nrnmlrnrs of' tlw Liturgical Choir. owrlooking this "sea of light," was brnathlakinf.\. 


The Observer/Joe Stark Members of the Liturgical Choir prepare for the climax of the Easter season which will busy the choir for the next three weeks. ' 
¦ UNIVERSITY COUNSELING CENTER 
BilBS atS11ringP 
Sri:cial to The Observer 

The bathroomfloor is cold as you hug tho porcelain bowl. retching while the room spins. "Never again,'' you pledge. "will I drink that much," A f'P.w weeks later you find yourself' on your knees again making promises, "I fo1,I so awful, please make it stop." 
Your tongue tastes like dried cotton and your head throbs while you try to remember last night. As your stomach turns you remember fragments of a dark room and a casual acquaintance who now sooms too familiar. Fearful images intrude as you worry about STDs, pregnancy and defini­tions of rape. But you're not really sure. You promise lots of things includ­ing, "Nover again will I drink so mu,:h." 
It looks like yesterday's news. Some student somewher11 is dead. Too mu1,;h akohol, too quickly. Len alone lo sleep it off. But tlu• name in today's paper is difl'oront than tho one in yesterday's, is diffomnt than tho on(, in tomorrow's. Broken body found with l1igh BAC (blood-alcohol level), Did he/she jump or fall? Student dead in an alcohol-related car accidPnt. Oid you know her? Did you know him? Again and again. SonuMherP for some­body it's too late to say hnovor again.'' 
As many of you prepare to enjoy the rites of spring -weekm1d parties, special celebrations, road trips or Just some down-time In South Bend, what types of things do you consider to keep your own relationship with alcohol, free from continued rngret? Designated driver? Not geltinK sepa­rated from friends when drinking? Knowing exacLly what is in your drink'? Planning ahead to Umit your tonsumption? Spacing your drinks with non­alcoholic boverages?· 
For many of you, answering affirmatively to the above will hdp reduce the likelihood or hungovf\rS or more serious regrets. But is I.hat all you should bo concerned about'? Unfortunately it's not that simpln. At loast 10 percent of students at Notre Dame who use alcohol have serious abuse problems. No alcohol use would be best for them. Another 40 pen:1:•nt would greatly benefit. if they reduced their currnnt consumption from binge levels down to moderate or light levels defined as hc>twmm one to three drinks depending on gender and body weight. !Binge drinking is deiint~d as four or monl drinks in a row during a t.vo woek period for males and three drinks for females.I 
Of coursP, if you're under-age you know the law. Your chances of bning arrestiid for underage consumption and fake Ins has increasPd significant­ly. A'lk some of the students_ arrested in tho past year at local bars. And recently the new county prosecutor has targeted drunken drivers. A word to the wise -ii' it looks like you're impaired and your Bt\C is .08 or higlwr, expect to be arrestod. 
B?yond the throat of alcohol-related death through alcohol poisoning or accidents; beyond the threat of rape, unwanted sex and assault; beyond the threat of arrest; there are still a great many rMsons f'or oxamining one's alcohol use and its impact. It's not surprising that personal rnlation­~hips suffer when alcohol is abused, hut the campus community also suf­~ors, A nat.lonal study conducted at universities across the county, includ­mg Notre Dame, revealed that campuses with high binge alcohol use also had far more cases of vandalism and violence. StudEmts at these campus­es, including ours, complained of study and sleep being int.errnpt1~d by other student<., who were drunk. Residence halls often smelled of vomit. Other students complained of insults and threats thev had to endurn from intoxicated classmates. Academic success appears to suffer as well. Students who binge drink are more likely to haw lower grades. 
What does all of the above mean for you'? Consider these questions: If you use alcohol. is it at responsible levels or do you binge drink'? ls alcuhol a part of your celebrations or at the center of your Cfllebrations? Can you control your drinking and consistently avoid alcohol-related problems'! Are you able to enjoy the pleasant feeling that moderate alcohol use pro­vl~es witho_ut gt~ing o~erboard? Too often college students erroneously tlunk that 1f a httle bit fools good, a lot will fool groat. Unfortunately, excess akohol drowns what could have been a mild buzz and instead over­loads the body with toxins. Excess use is also more likely to promote repeated excess which, if unchecknd, will ultimately lead to serious med­ical, psychological, academic, career, legal and spiritual problems. 
If you are not sure if your use is problematic or if you decided to limit your alcohol uso but have been unable to do so cc.msistMtly, we at the University Counseling Center (631-73361 can help you objectively and con­fidentially evaluate your alcohol use. Another helpful resource is the Oflice of Alcohol and Drug Education (631-7970). ff you'ro not n1ady to r:onrn in, you can call to talk to a counselor. You can also visit our Counseling Center's Web site and take some preliminary alcohol abuse sereening tests. 
If you don't drink or nevnr abuse, alcohol, you should rnuliw you're not alone. Although many students who seldom use alcohol report feeling iso­lated on weekends, you should know that one-fourth of the studmll bodv sharn your vnluAs. Also morn than a third of studnnts who rPgularly us;1 afootrnl consume it at low to moderoto levels. You can also Im prnactivf' regarding your values. Support alcohol-free events at Not.re Damn. Encourage your friends to participate in rA.crentional m:tiviti11s in whirh alcohol is not tho focus. Learn helpful ways to confront your friends who abuse alcoh?I. If alcohol abuse by others is regularly robbing you of sleep and s~udy ~1me, let your rnctor know. It's your right. Your Notre Dame nxporienco 1s too valuable to b<> wasted by those too intoxicated to earn. 
.Tlw_ intent ofthis series ofarticles is not to prol'ide munseling hut to pro­vide mformatwn about a tJariety of mental health topics. To seek help pfoase contact the Vuiversit!I Counseling Center at 631-7336. For more informal.ion on this topic. 1Jisit the Self Help section of our WefJ sit(' at http://www.nd.edu/-ucc. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those oft.he author a11d not those ofthe Observer. 
... 

..... 
-
page 14 The Observer• SPORTS Thursday, March 25, 1999 
Invitational. However, next up year and we feel we have a on Notre Dame's horizon is a strong enough team." ¦ OLYMPICS
Crew 
set of' Midwest meets which But strength is only as should gi.ve them a feel !'or the important as the team\; tfopth,
continued from page 24 
end-of-season Midwest and the Irish have a gn'aL deal 



ily-mpic Commitee 
been nothing less than serious Championships in May. with which to go downstream. business, fox said. In preparation for the Each of their teams has quick­"This is a good opportunity regional competition, the Irish ly adjusted to the varsity-sport 

,;;:Omotes reforms
to sl'e when>. we match up," will set their boats in level. The charge has been led said Fox on the team's spring Michigan State's water this by a group of coxswains call­break meet against Duke, Saturday to race the Spartans ing the shots for the Irish, 

$137 million in new sponsors' Hochf'ster. Templf' and and Creighton University. Jada Benn and Claire Bula 
money to meet budget targets, Wisconsin. State. which inaugurated their on the eight boats and Erin 
SYDNEY, Australia told a meeting of existing spon­The experience of racing varsity program only a year Kicrnicki on the lightweight . The Sydney Olympics organiz­sors on Wednesday they were against a predominately before the Irish, will face an boat have been what Fox calls 
ing committee [SOCOG] took out right to be concerned about the Eastern field will give tbe Irish able Irish team. the team's "strategists and 
paid advtirtisements in controversies. He said that an edge in their first-ever Big "We fepl reaLly strong this motivators." 
Australian newspapers although no sponsor had yet East competition on April 25. weekend, "said Fox. "Vlichigan "We really look to them for 
Thursday to promote walked away from the Sydney at the Gnorgetown State only went varsity last big leadership roles," she said. 
International Olympic games.. the contr'.JVfl:,SY "doesn't Committee rfforms. make life any oaswr. 
Committee chief executive The advertisem@ts, reported­Sandy Hollway said the adver­ly costing $25,000. display an ti'!etnentswere aimed to counter open lotter listing roforms 
bad publicity surrounding the adopted by the IOC at a meeting Olympic movement in thu wake in Lausanne. Switzerland, this of the bribm-y scandal and gift­month. giving allegations against These include oxpolling mmn­Australian IOC member Phil bers found guilty of corruption. Coles. changing the selection process 
Hollway said he hoped the of host cities, an oxamit1ation of 
investigation into whether Coles tile structure of the lOC and the accepted jewelry from a person establishment of an Ethics associated with the unsuccessful Commission. big by Nhens, Greect~, for the Hollway said news coverage of H19J> games would be ended the IOC meeting had been overly quickly, negative and the advort.isemen1s 
';I;ike every strand of the con­were a way of putting out "some 
troversies affecting the of the more positive messages." Olympics, Iwould like to see this "The IOC is now, thankfully,on€J out of the way," Hollway on a path to reform," Hollway told Australian Broadcasting says in the letter, "If the stepsCorp. radio. taken by the IOC last week are 
Unlike SOCOG president followed through -and every 
Michael Knight Hollway has friend of the Olympics must declitJ.ed to call for Coles' resig­hope and urge that they are ­nation from the committee's thl,; could be a watershed for tho 
The Observer/Jeff Hsu 

board. . 
better in the international
Notre Dame travels to Michigan this weekend to take on Michigan State and Creighton University. The 

flotlway, who needs to find Olympic movement." 
newly-formed varsity squad hopes to earn confidence and experience before the Georgetown Invitational. 


¦ COLLEGE SWIMMING 



Stanford looks to defend NCAA championship 
Associated Press "This year we have the sophomore Michael Gilliam. Championships as we have heat of tlrn 200 free relay up youngest team I've had in the who finished sixth in the 100 over the last six years and we there [the opening event]. it INDIANAPOLIS 11 years l 've been at backstroke as a freshman. got third," Schubert said. gets a little bit toughnr. It is a 
Although defending champi­Tennessee," said Volunteers "We lost a lot of senior lead­"We've got good sophomores great opportunity to find out on Stanford is favored in a bid coach John Trembley. who ership." said Gilliam, who this and freshmen, particularly who your fighters are.." for its ninth NCAA men's lost nine seniors from the year joined his father and sophomore sprinters ... who The Cardinal have dominat­swimming and diving champi­team that placed fourth last brother in the list of have given us the best relay ed the sport this decade with onship this week, the outcome year. Southeastern Conference teams we've had in five or six four championships since is expected to be a lot closer Trembley anticipates a close swimmers who have won years." 1992, than last year. · battle among the five schools. championships in the back­Texas will also depend heav­Stanford's bid will be led by 
Stanford won last year's "It's safe to say that any one stroke for Tennessee. ily on underclassmen. senior Tate Blahnik, who championship with 599 points of the teams here could win USC coach Mark Schubert is "We're probably the edged world champion Lenny to second-place Auburn's 394 the championship," Trembley hoping the Trojans start com­youngest team I've ever had, Kruzelburg of USC for the 200 1/2. said in reference to the five peting here with momentum perhaps one of the most tal­backstroke championship last 
Texas and Auburn head the who attended the pre-meet from the Pac-10 ented," said Texas coach year. Other defnnding champi­list of top contenders in the news conference Wednesday. Championships, which Eddie Reese, who has won six ons competing include three-day competition that The Volunteers will depend Stanford won for the 18th con­NCAA titles and finished in the Arizona's Hyk Neethling. who begins Thursday at the on a team dominated by secutive year. The Cardinal top five 19 consecutive years. claimed the 200. 500 and Indiana University underclassmen as they seek a finished less than eight points "This meet puts a different 1,650 f'reest.vlo ev!rnts last Natatorium. Southern Cal and fourth consecutive finish in ahead of archrival California. slant on things," Reese said. year, and 1i1orida State's Tennessee are also among the top five. "Our team probably swam "When you walk out on that Brendon Dedekind in the 50
-Stanford's major challengers. The group is topped by as well at the Pac-10 deck ... and they get that first free. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid.
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
SUMMER EMPLOYMENT: American Flyer Model Trains -STAYING IN SOUTH BEND FOR New Notebook Computer CD COUNTDOWN: ART EDUCATION turn your attic train set into$$ THE SUMMER??? 200MHz,32MB 2 weeks 
ILOST & FOUND I 

ASSISTANT call Dave at 273-9015 Lovely five-bedroom, single family 2.1 GB for sale. THE FLORIDA EVANS SNITE ART MUSEUM. house available for sub-lease. Hurry up. SHOWBAND AND REVUE's Lost: 100 CDs that were in a black Get teaching experience while About a mile from campus. Denis 634-4551 17songcd
FOR RENT 

CaseLogic carrying case. making a difference in South Safe neighborhood. Clean. Two See Florida Evans this Friday Lost in LaFortune the night of Bend/Assist Education Curator with window air-conditioners. Washer at 18195 Bulla Road 2/26/99. summer youth art program focusing WALK TO SCHOOL and dryer, stove, refrige. Call 634-TICKETS Monetary reward being offered if on museum objects and art 2-6 BEDROOM 0562 for info. Glad you had fun found. making.June 1-July 30, 15-20 hours STARTING $185 MONTH/PER-I need graduation tickets! love you. No questions asked. per week.Fine Arts &education SON 232-2595 Second floor apt. available for sum-Call Kelly -Mike Please call Brian majors with exp teaching &/or work-mer at College Park. 2 bed/ 2 bath, @243-8932 at 4-1126 ing with children preferred BED 'N BREAKFAST washer/dryer, NC. Call 271-8966 •• ATTENTION LESBIAN, GAY, w/ any info. INCLUDES ROOM & BOARD June REGISTRY BISEXUAL AND QUESTIONING
PERSONAL
20 July 30. (6/20-7/30,additional 219-291-7153 2 Bdrm Apt at College Park to sub-STUDENTS •• LOST GLASSES WorkStudy hours-if eligible-with lease for summer session. 4-3620. Original student group will hold Grey Frames National Youth Sports Program.for House For Rent Casino Night ... support meeting TONIGHT. Hard. Leather Case total 40 hrs/wk it desired) 831-4435 4-5 Bedroom SUMMER SUBLEASE Have you been invited? Call info line for details If Found App. deadline April 6 Close to Campus Upper COLLEGE PARK You know, we won't invite just 236-9661. Call Rebecca x 1464 Includes: Dishwasher, 2 Bdrm, NC, wash/dryer ANYONE... 
Freshman taking gen chem looking WasheriDryer, Fridge, Stove. alsoFURNITURE in great cond. Dad. for a roomate !or the summer ses-Remodeling Kitchen in spring. couches, tables, beds When you need copies ... 64, 64, 64, 64, 641!!11!!11 mimi
WANTED 

sion. Call at Peter4-0992 RENT REDUCED! Call 273-2917 We're OPEN!!I 
Call 269-4712 THE COPY SHOP Congratulations to the Kennedy SUMMER CAMP JOBS Molly McGuire's Coffee House LaFortune Student Center familyt
FOR SALE
LAND/WATER •a great place to workl" immediate-Tri-level 3 bdrm house 631-COPY SPORTS summer help needed. 1-1/2 mi, from campus across from Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight Hi Erin are you reading this? ADIRONDACK park with 1-1/2 baths NEW Rates Phone Cards Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm 
MOUNTAINS/ Mystery Shoppers Wanted family room with fireplace 282 min. $20 call 258-4805 Sat: Noon-6:00pm Unfortunately faces and feet don't 
LAKE PLACID You dine.We pay. 2 years prof es-2-car garage, fenced-in back yard. Sun: Noon-Midnight lit welt into dresses VISIT US sional bar/dining experience AC. stove, refrig, W/D, GID & ON/. Beautiful brass bed www.raquettelake.com required.Why not enjoy a meal out $995/mo. 
queen size COUNTDOWN TO THE You should have been here when l -800-786-8373 on us?Call PDB Management 683-5038 or 232-4527 with orthopedic mattress set and •· LEWIS CRUSH •• the clerk was here ~· Company1 -888-656-7999, deluxe frame. 16 DAYS Babysitter needed 
5/6 BDRM HOMES, New.never used will YOU be invited? JUSTIN DUNN WILL BE PER-
in my home. SALES PERSON NEEDED LOCAL NEAR CAMPUS. still in plastic. FORMING THIS SATURDAY Flexible day time hours. GOLF SHOP. 282-3727 ASK FOR FURN. $235 NEED 2 graduation tix AT BARNES AND NOBLE Call 243-5540. DICK WALKER. 
272-6551 219-862-2082 Call John @271-8531 FROM 8-10 PM 
Thursday, Mardi 25, 1999 The Observer• PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
student union 


HAPPENINii§ 


STUDENT UNION BOARD 
Movie: You've Got Mail. 3/25. Thursday. Cushing Auditorium. 3/26. Friday. Cushing Auditorium. 3/27. Saturday. Cushing Auditorium. 
Acousticafe. 3/25. Thursday. Lafortune Huddle. 
Torn Deluca, Hypnotist. 3/25. Thursday. Stepan Center. 
HPC (HALL PRESIDENT§' COUNCIL} 
Breen-Phillips TV Week. 3/25-3/26. Thursday & Friday. Breen-Phillips Hall. 
Cavanaugh Daddy/Daughter Weekend & Dance. 
3/27-3/28. Saturday & Sunday. 

McGlinn Casino Night. 3/26. Friday. 
McGlinn Rock-n-Jock Tournament. 3/28 Sunday. 
Morrissey Music Fest. 3/27. Saturday. 
Formals. 3/27. Saturday. 
SYRs. 3/27. Saturday. 3/27. Saturday. 3/27. Saturday. 
Saferide. 631-9888. 3/25. Thursday. 3/26. Friday. 3/27. Saturday. 
Academic Pride Week. 3/25. Thursday. 
3/29. Monday. 
3/30. Tuesday. 
Cavanaugh Hall. 
McGlinn Hall. 
McGlinn Hall. 
Morrissey Manor. 
Breen-Phillips Hall. 
Howard Hall. Pasquerilla West. Morrissey Manor. 
Where the Action Is. Where the Action Is. Where the Action Is. 
Hospitality Room of SDH. 
Hospitality Room of SDH. 
Hospitality Room of SDH. 

Ml§CELLANEOU!i/CAMPU!i-WIDE 
Palm Sunday. 3/28. Sunday. 
Kellogg Institute: Sergio Aguayo: "Democratization in Mexico". 3/30. Tuesday. C103 Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
1030PM. Tickets: $2. 0800PM & 1030PM. 0800PM & 1030PM. 
0700PM. Admission: $2 at the door. 
0900PM-11 0OPM. Tickets: $3. 
1 00OPM-0200AM. 1 000PM-0300AM. 1 000PM-0300AM. 

121 0PM-011 0PM. Art, Art History & Design, Film, Television & Theatre, Music. 1230PM-0130PM. English, Sociology, Medieval Studies, Romance Languages, Literature. 121 OPM-011 0PM. Philosophy, Theology, Classics, PLS. 
0415PM. 

Kellogg Institute (co-sponsored with LAASP): Sergio Aguayo: "Mexico and the Colossus to the North". 3/31. Wednesday. Cl 03 Hesburgh Center 0700PM. for International Studies. 
••• 
+
••• 0
• 

Can be used with invisible tape as tattoos. [Submissions for next week's tattoos can be sent via campus mail to SUB, 201 LaFortune] 

Thursday, March 25, 1999 



The Observer• SPORTS 
KRT Photo 
University of Utah head basketball coach Rick Majerus withdrew his name from consideration for Irish head basketball coach after University officials expressed concern about his character. 
purchase a house if he took the comment as to whether he rec­job because of the symbolic ommended hiring Majerus to

Majerus 
importance that the University Malloy and Beauchamp. placed on a permanent place of Despite the comments in
continued from page 24 
dwelling. :viajerus' book, no accusations run his athletic programs with According to the source, of academic impropriety by little administrative interfer­
Wadsworth was so impressed basketball players have been ence. by Majerus that he recom­reported at the University of According to the Tribune 
mended hiring him to Malloy Utah. article, Wadsworth reassured and Beauchamp at a Tuesday Majerus is also active with Majerus that his lifestyle would 
meeting. The athletic depart­many charities including not be a major concern of ment would not confirm such a Coaches vs. Cancer. Royalties Notre Dame, while the source meeting. from his book go to fighting 
claimed that Majerus agreed to 
Wadsworth's office had no breast cancer. 

.Have something to say? Use Observer Classifieds. 

Insight 
continued from page 24 
to coach, just not lwrn? His dt1cision l.o takn the South Carolina job backs this up. Something happn1wd lrnhind the st·erws when Lou dPC'.idPd 
to go, and we might never know tlrn wholn story. 
The next mistake was the Davie hiring. Davi1~ is not a had coach, but thcv left him in charge of forming his own new coaching staff. somnthing he was obviously not ready to do. Davie couldn't handle the dismissal or Joe MoorP, a coach who had sPrved thn University f'or many years. and tlrn administration found themselves in court ovnr the issue. l:iavie made a mistake by commenting that .Joe Moore was too old, but tho administration never saw fit tu publicly dnnounce that action. 
Another blunder was madP with thn firing ol' John Macl.Pud. It is obvious now that would he not haw decid­ed to resign, MacLcod would have beon fired. What the administration won't tnll any­one is that MacLeod was not supposed to leave so soon. 
The nnw recruits were sup­posed to be signed on April 7, then MacLeod was going to bo talked lo. Somehow an Asbury Park, N . .J., newspaper got hold of the storv and forced Wadsworth to make an unscheduled trip back from Florida, talk to MacLeod and call a 9 p·.m. press conference Lo a111wu11cc Llw coaching 
chango. 
Is it just a <'oincidP!ll'.P that assistant athlctii· din•r.tor Bubba Cunningham was in tlw N1\W krs1iy an•a at the same time Llw story brokP'! 
Orw would supposP lw must lrnvl\ lalk<·d to Llw wrong p<~O­ph\, who brokn tlrn story lwforn NotrP DanH' was pr1•­µarnd to deal with it. 
Now thcrP is the poor lrnn­dling of tho MajPrus intnrvinw proc1iss. When is sonwonc going Lo lw lwld rnsponsiblP for Lim embarrassing Prrors tlw adminhitralion knnps mak­ing in ils hiring/11ri11g prar.­tin~s? 
It has lwnn llintml that Notre Danrn ½ants a big-nanw roach to add sonw rpcognilion to tlw bask!'tball program, but no big-name coach is going to put up with nxtensiv1i back­ground rlw!'.ks dosigrwd to find a 11aw in his diaract(•r. 
Maj1\rus was intornslml in Notrn Danw. JI(\ was a ni<"P tit in thn program. IIP was pn'­parnd to hrnak his tradition of hotPl-living Lo symboliz1· his eommitnwnt lt> tlw job. IIn was t!w 1wrso11ality tlw pro­gram rwmlnd to takn a step up in tlw Plitn of tlw Big liast. 
Notre Danw is now loft to convince sonworw that the head basknttrnll coaching vacancy is a good opportunity. not a chancn to havn your character attacknd in· tlH' pub­lic nyn. 
The oiews expressed in this column are those of the aulhor and not necessarily those c~/' The Obseri,er. 

Thursday, March 25, 1999 The Observer. PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
Freshman Retreat #23 (April 9-10)Sign-up 
Continuing week of March 22, 103 Hesbugh Library, 112 Badin Hall,or see your hall rector 
Sign-up for "What's the Future of this Relationship?" Sunday, April 11 
Beginning Monday, March 22, 112 Badin Hall. An opportunity to explore issues and questions facing couples in significant relationships. 
Freshman Retreat #22 
Friday-Saturday, March 26-27 St. Joe Hall 
Notre Dame Encounter Retreat #56 
Friday-Sunday, March 26-28 Fatima Retreat Center 
Palm Sunday 
Sunday, March 28 Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
5:00 pm Vigil Mass 
10:00 am Mass with procession outside 12 noon Mass with procession outside 
Confirmation Program-The Chrism Mass 
Tuesday, March 30, 7:30 pm St. Matthew's Chapel 
Campus Wide Candlelight Stations of the Cross 
Tuesday of Holy Week, March 30 Procession begins at the Grotto at 7 
p.m. 
Opportunity for Confession to follow at approximately 9:30 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
PALM SUNDAY 
Weekend Presiders at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart Saturday, May 2 Mass 
5:00 p.m. Rev. Peter D. Rocca, C.S.C. 
Sunday, May 3 Mass 
10:00 a.m. Rev. E. William Beauchamp, C.S.C. 
11:45 a.m. Rev. David J. Scheidler, C.S.C. 
Sunday Vespers 
7:15 p.m. Rev. Peter D. Rocca, C.S.C. · 
Scripture Readings This Coming Sunday 
1st Reading Isaiah 50: 4-7 2nd Reading Philippians 2: 6-11 Gospel Matthew 21: 1-11 
WHAT'S THE FUTURE OF THIS RELATIONSHIP? Chris Etzel & Jim Lies, C.S.C. 
They were both seniors. They had dated for almost two years. Graduationwas looming in their future. They both were interviewing for jobs. They felt that this relationship was special; they were serious about each other. But they just weren't sure what the next step was. Should they look for jobs in the same city or should they test the relationship with some distance? Should they get engaged now or should they work for a year or two first and establish some career goals? 
They came into the Campus Ministry Office hoping for some information. Perhaps we had a compatibility test they might take to see if they were truly meant for each other. Did we have any articles they might read? Did we have any advice on what they should do? 
This was a new twist. Though we had offered programs for engaged cou­ples for many years, we had not really thought about this category of cou­ple; what should we call them? "Serious but not yet committed?" "Pre­engaged?" 
We were greatly impressed that a couple would so seriously question their future as to come to our office for advice. Yet a program for the engaged would not be appropriate for this couple. They were still exploring their relationship -the decision was not yet made; and the decision might eventually be to not continue the relationship. What could we do for couples like these? 
After much discussion we focused on some of the issues and questions facing couples in significant relationships: 
-how can we determine if we're really ready for marriage? 
-should we try to find jobs or graduate schools that are 
in the same city? 

-how will a long distance relationship affect us? 
-how can you express your true feelings without pressuring 
for commitment? 

-how will the demands of career/graduate school affect 
our relationship? 

-how might differences in our families of origin affect 
our relationship? 
-how can we communicate better? 

After identifying the issues we put together a program and called it "What's the Future of this Relationship?" It includes some presentations on the stages of relationships and decision-making. While we were able to avoid "compatibility tests", we did include a marriage expectations quiz. There is time for answering questions and a lot of time for discussing answers with your partner. There is a discussion period for questions. There is a folder of articles for additional information and reflection. 
What most couples seemed to enjoy about the program was the time and the opportunity to discuss their relationship, especially areas or topics they hadn't considered before. 
If you are in a significant relationship and are asking the kinds of ques­tions listed above perhaps you'd like to attend the program this semester. 
"What's the Future of this Relationship?" will take place Sunday, April 11, from 1:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. Pre-registration is required. Registrntion papers can be obtained in both Campus Ministry Offices (Library Concourse and Badin Hall). Registration deadline is Thursdc1y, April 8. The program is limited to 25 couples. There is no cost for the program. If you have any questions, please call Chris Etzel, Sylvia or John Dillon at 
l¦I
631-5242. 
(l\MPUSMINISTRY 

page 18 The Observer• SPORTS Thursday, March 25, \lJ:)'.)
~==================================;--~----=-----=----=---------­
¦ FIGURE SKATING 
Kwan skates to 


first in qualifiers 
Associ:u:ed Press 
HELSINKI, Finland Sleeping late didn't mean slacking off for Michelle 
Kwan. 
She stayed in bed until almost the last minute Wednesday, then handily won her qualifying round al. the world championships with a solid and graceful program. 
In the pairs final, Russians Yelena Berezhnaya and Anton Sikhuralidze lost their grace for a moment when she fell, but the couple went on to retain their title. 
Kwan came down with a cold whlle flying to Finland. She was sluggish and needed antibiotics, making it hard to get out of bed. 
"I've been sleeping ...all morning,'' she said, adding she got up 1 hour, 20 minutes before she had to take the ice. 
She did only a triple-double combination and cut a triple lutz to a double. She decided at the last minute on the dou­ble lutz because she was a bit tired. 
"I think I could have been a little tougher out there," she said. 
Maria Butyrskaya ofUus~i11;, regarde<¼ as Kwan's.clQsest challe'nger for the title; proved she was tough. She took a hard fall early in the program and stumbled on the next couple of jumps. But she recovered strongly and ended up first despite a welJ-execut­ed turn from Tatiana Malinirta of Uzbekistan. 
Ma.linina hit her jumps more reliably than Butyrskaya, but her use of exaggerated, cartoonish arm positions brings her unenthu­siastic scores from some judges. 
The qualification round counts for 20 percent of the final score, meaning Kwan and Butyrskaya go into Friday's ~hott program even­ly match~¢. 
Berezhnaya and Sikharulidze retained their title despite Berezhnaya·s fall coming out ofa double ax~l. 
·· "I Jus!.• iAade a mistake on it. 1'1\ere . a, Jot of pres­sure ha · are.the 
worl4 .... i.e~J''
Berez .. . .. ,..•.....;\w··· In·.· ~fl¢ ...... d.•... Pla9e•·· were. 
Chin11;)ShenX11e and.Zhao Hongbo;'Tlte:y•.ear.ned· the· loudest ov;a~~n with a comhi­nation of strength and panache that included a dra­matic delayed triple twist. But the straight 5.9s the 
Russians got for presentation pushed them above the Chinese: . 
''lt ,Wairtn.1 be~..ti~e..·.e•ver 
sl(a :.wti are a 
bit 1.1tn:!t vvln 
t . . ... ' . > . •.· •.
1t \Va$' ~¥ Iif~t pll.lrs medal in tne·\~orld~ fqr ·Chijla, .and alsofor Poland,.whose Dorota Zagorska and. Marius Siudek took the bronze. 
W%#z£%zz%z£'z.w.z-z.z-~z~~%%%~%%~
I 8p1.,i~CJ 8pe-~ial I 
i r---------------------, ~ 
I
; Your choice of offers: I *$3 off Full Set (Reg. $28) 
1. *Free French Manicure w/New Set ~ $
i ,*. 2 off Fill (Reg $18) 
~ Free Bottle ofPolish justfor a try! ij Appointment/walk-in welcome
I I
I L.~~. 1~--m;,,~l],30/9iil;nl],-r;r,;--.J I
I ~r~r='
I 
-.-.--=, 
~ 
I~ j 
~~aaI~wa~ 
University Center Plaza 
6502 N. Grape Rd. Mishawaka. IN 46545 
271-0503 
I
; 
I 
,
11: 
I
I 
i
! 
ketween Best Buy and Service Merchandise
i !
across from Vniven;ity Park Mall 

l~~?~l&~~~~:~;~~~=~::=~-~ 

I
I 
II ~ 
I 

¦ NATIONAL COLLEGIATE ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION 
Wisconsion placed on probation 
Associated Press 
MADISON, Wis. 
Wisconsin was placed on two years' probation today for what the NCAA described as wide­spread, unauthorized spending of booster club money. 
"The pfmalties are quite light for a major violation," said David Swank, chairman of the NCAA's Division I Committee on Infractions. "The university did not properly oversee what its booster clubs were doing." 
He said the probation amounts to an "embarrass­ment" for the university. The school's teams wore spared penalties concerning postsea­son tournaments, television appearances and scholarship allotments. 
The university must: -conduct an internal audit, focusing on fund raising. -develop a program on com­pliance of NCM rules. -file annual compliance reports. 
-require the athletic direc­tor to attend an NCM compli­ance seminar. 
"It is a lenient penalty, I will grant you," Swank said. "You have to give the univnrsity credit for what it did. Tlrny caught the violations." 

Chancellor David Ward said he was "gratified that the NCAA found that virtually all 

the expenditures we rnported would be consid11rPd "proppr" had the requisite prior written approval been ohtaincd, that no competitive advantage was gained and that none of the funds accrued to the benefit of enrolled student-athlctPs." 
Wisconsin reported tho infractions to the NCAA in April 1998. 
An internal audit turned up hundreds of cases of unautho­rized spending ol' booster club money on allowable items. Payments wero made for such things as moving expenses, travel and business expenses and tickets to events. 
The audit show<id that 77 staff members, including ath­letic direct.or l'llt BichtPr, n)ceived rPimburs1mwnts l'rom booster accounts. 
Such paynwnts must rnct\iVI' prior approval from tlw dwn­cellor's office, something that was either not dont\ or not done in timely fashion. 
Hichter rnccivtid a writtnn reprimand l'rom tlw char11·.nllor. 
Auditors said otlrnr paymonts wen~ improperly funnnlnd from the Mendota Gridiron Club to assistant football coachns. 
Four months al'ter bonusPs for those coaches wnrn dcnit!d bv \Visconsin officials in D~cembcr 1996, the coachns were paid "appearanc<i foes" by the booster group for identi­cal amounts. 
NCAA rules forbid any out­side sourcn from paying or supplementing any athl<'tic departm11nt staff mPmlwr's salary. 
"Had the coachrn-; and ath lot­ic director asked f'or pnrmis­sion, most of thesn expendi­tures would have b1ien approved by tho university and would have bPen completely legal." Swank said. 





CLASS OF 2000 
* DINNER * 
to celebrate NCAA National Championship Final 
at 
*******DAMON'S******* 
Monday, March 29th 7: 30 PM $5.00 per person +++++ Includes choice of... +++++ 0 CHARGRILLED CHICKEN 
0 PRIME RIB 0 RIBS 
*All come with baked potato, salad, and drink 
*Price includes tip and tax 
Tickets for dinner available at Lafortune beginning Thursday, March 18th 
JI:&. 
VARSITY SHOP VARSITY SHOP

-••. Softball ,.•••. 
vs. Toledo Saturday, March27@ 1pm 
vs. Bo1¥ling Green Sunday,March28@ 12pm All Students get in FREE!!!! 

(LIMITED TICKETS AVAILABLE) 

Women's Lacrosse 
vs. Ohio State 
Friday, March 26 @ 4 pm 

vs. Connecticut 
Sunday, March 28 @ 2 pm 

Thursday, March 25, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 19 
-··---~------------------------------------------------------=---­
all participants. Refreshments will be servod. For ters and placllkickers who are interested in kicking
¦ SPORTS BRIEFS 
more information, contact the RecSports office at for the Irish during spring practice which gets 
6:31-6100. underway this Sa.tUl·day, March 27. Any student 
Wenkund Hacquethall Tournament -Sign up Christmas in April BenefH Run wUI. he lrnld on interested in trying out should contact Bob Chmiel, now at HncSports for tho Weekend Racquetball Saturday, April 10, at 11 a.m. All arc welcome to coordinator of Football Operations, at 631-5858. Tournanu•nt to be held on Friday and Saturday, meet at Stepan Center for a 5K or 10K run or 2-mile Kayaking -Register at HecSports for four pool April C) and l 0. Students should bring their own walk. T-shirts will go to all finishers. Cost is $6 in sessions and a one-day excursion. Classes will be racquet anrl brst ganw to Urn Joyce Center Courts. advance or $7 the day of the race. Register at held April 12, 15, 19, 22, at Holfs Aquatic C<mtflr M<~n•s and women's divisions are available. Cost is RecSports. All proceeds to benefit Christmas in from 7-10 p.m. Class size is limited. Cost is $15.. 
$8. The registration deadline is Wednesday, April 7. April. Registration begins March 30 at 8 a.m. Call thP Bulls will hn providfid and H,hirts will h~ given to Tho Notre Du.mt~ football team is lookhig for.pun-RecSports office M 631-6100 for more information. 
Widen your horizons beyond the limits of individual disci­plines through a cross-disciplinary perspective. 
Choose a European Area Studies Concentration.* 
History 495 (87) 345 382 
325 
Government 321 343 347 
Economics 306-1 405-01 
Theology 469 
English 
472Z 
German and Russian Languages and Literature 
455-01  German Drama: 1750 to the Present (Hagens) {in German]  
492-01  Schopenhauer (Hosle)  
Philosophy  
303-01  19th and 20th Century Philosophy (Ameriks)  

Romance Languages and Literatures 
409-01 Literature and Opera (MacKenzie) 
411-01 Cinema e letteratura (Ryan) 
499-01 Senior Seminar: Women Writers in Contemporary 
Spain (Jerez-Farran) (with instructor's permission.) 

If you need to do some catching up or want to get a jump on fall, summer classes at Holy Cross College may be just the ticket. Choose one or both sessions, each offering a wide variety of quality general education courses. And pay our summer tuition rate of just $170 per credit hour. 
Take advantage of exceptionally small classes, a dedicated and caring faculty, and our convenient location just to the west of the University of Notre Dame campus. Credit earned is transferable. And on-campus student housing is available. 
You'll enjoy summer activities even more, knowing that you're also getting ahead in your studies. Write or call Holy Cross College today. Applications for Summer Sessions I and I!, as well as for 
the 1999 Fall Semester, are now being accepted. 
Session I-Moy I7 to June 24 Session II -June 28 to August 5 
Problems in European History since 1949 (Wegs) Europe from French Revolution to WWI (Kselman) Eastern Europe Since 1945 (Crago) Enlightenment Europe (Sullivan) 
Regionalism in IR (Vayrynen) European Politics (Gould) Nuts and Bolts of Russian Politics (Merritt) 
History of Economic Modern Thought (Mirowski) Topics in Labor (Ghilarducci) 
After the Abyss: Christian and Jewish Theology after the Holocaust (Signer) 
Senior Seminar: The Avant Garde (K. Ziarek} (with instructor's permission) 

P.O. Box 308 • Notre Dame, IN 46556 
(219) 239-8400, ext. 22 • Fax (219) 233-7427 
e-mail: vduke@hcc-nd.edu 
¦ MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
1 

Baerga gets back to basics in minor league 
Associated Press 

SARASOTA, Fla. 
For a guy starting over at the bottom, Carlos Baorga was in a great mood. 
The second baseman was smiling and unfailingly upbeat Wednesday morning when he showed up at the Cincinnati Reds training com­plex to try to resurrect his fading career. 
lie took batting practice, fielded grounders and even signed some autographs for a handful of fans who n~nrnm­bercd his glory days in Cleveland -three All-Star games, one World Series, seemingly unlimited potential. 
Three years after the Indians gave up on him and traded him to the New York Mets, the 30-year-old Baerga is barely hanging on. 
The St. Louis Cardinals waived him last Wr)dnesday rather than keep him on the opening day roster at $1.25 million. 
011 Tuesday, he accepted a nonguaranteed minor-league contract with the H.eds, who consider him a low-risk recla­mation project. 
For the first time since 1990, Baerga is out of the big leagues. 
"It's a little bit tough, when 
ROLY CROSS 
*COLLEGE 
Office of Admissions 
you're used to being in tlrn big leagues," Baerga said. 
"But you have to realize that sometimes you have to start again. Sometinws you have to do what you did before to get bark on tral'k. 
If I have to go that way, I'm going to do it." 
lie has no choice. Ile will start the season at Triple-/\ Indianapolis knowing that nothing is guaranteed. 
"He's not going to be blork­ing the way of a prospect at Triple-A," general managi;r Jim Bowden said. "If at som,i point we get him into shape, he might help tlw major league· club.' If not, he also may be a play1ir we could trade down the road for a younger player." 
His shape is the big thing. 
The Heds have assigned one of their trainers to help Baerga get in shape. Conditioning coordinator Lance Sewell set up a pro­gram to help Baerga lose weight and get stronger. 
Baerga has thick thighs and an ample midsection, but doesn't understand tlrn con• cerns about his condition. 
"Tim overweight stuff ­I've been like that all my career," Baerga said. 
"I'm a guy who alvvays co11ws to spring training lih that and I lose wPight. So I don't worry about that. I know I'm going to I)(' rt'ady wlwn I n«•nd to h<' rnady ­my bat and my l<'gs." 
II 11 wasn't anywh nrP 11 nar rfrndy Pnough for thP Cardinals, who watclwd him go 2-for-I:i in six gunws and cut him loosn. 
By dumping him last Wt'dnnsday, St. l.ouis owPd him only :rn days· pay, or $l(i:1,3<J4. 
llis production has <krli,wd s i11 c n I <J 'J :i . p ro mp t i11 g t h<~ Indians and MPls to d<'ridl' tlwy could do lwlt<'r. 
W h 1n1 t lw Carcl i 11 a Is s a w him in spring training, tlwy dccidt'd lw wasn't worth till' ITI<HH\y. 
"I go to spring training and play !six] ganws and they just d()cid<' they're going to IPt 1111' go. That was kind ol' surpris­ing," Baerga said. 'Tvn nnvnr bnnn in this situation hnforP." 
BOOK SEARCH 
• 
Used, rare and out-of-print : books 

• 
Initial cost of $Z.od 

• 
Nationally • circulated ad 

• 
Success rate of 50% 

• 
Time Required: 2 months 


ERASMUS BOOKS 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 
L •I 


;:p::a_g=-e::_2_0::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::....-__·l_h_c:_O_b_s_er_v..c.er_•_S.::;_P_O=----.:.R.:..:T=-S=--_______________T_._h~u~rs.::_da::_;_Y:__,.:...:M..:.:a:.:..rc=h~25::_,,_:l:..::9..::.9.::..9 
¦ WOMEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL 

-. ,. 


Final Four heads to former ABL arena 
Associated Pre,s 
SAN JOSE, Calif. 
It all seemed so perfect ­the Women's Final Four com­ing to an area wild about women's hoops and proud to host the American Basketball League's headquarters. 
Fans were relishing a dream Final Four matchup: local favorite Stanford, cap­ping a decade of success, against three-time defending champion Tennessee. 
But this weekend may turn out to be more notable for who's missing than who's at the Final FoUl'. 
Although San Jose remains excited about hosting the games and about the $32 mil­lion economic impact the Final Four is expected to have on the city, reality turned out to be a lot differ­ent than the expectations of last autumn. 
The ABL folded a few days before Christmas. Fans still grieve the loss of a league they thought represented the growing opportunities for women athletes. 
The nearest women's pro team now is in Sacramento, about two hours away, where the Monarchs are preparing for their third season in the 
WNBA. 
Stanford had a disappoint­ing season that ended in the first round of the NCAA tour­
nament, and Tonnessee lost 
69~63 in the regional finals to Duke to miss out on another trip to the Final Four. 
Duke coach Gail Goestenkors kn6ws her Blue Devils stunned many fans who had expected to see Chamique Holdsclaw and her Tennessee teammates vying for another champJonship. . 
"This was a big win for us, but I don't think it was as big as everyone else thinks that it is across the nation, because we did believe. we could win,"Goestenkor~ ~aid. 
Duke, struggling to get fan support on a campus infatu­ated with its men's basketball team's run to the Final Four, wiHJace Georgfa hi the. first semifinal glj';D;l(f •· Friday evening. The nightcap will be Louisiana Tt:<ch against Purdue. 
Purdue and Duke each made a WestCoast trip earli­er this season,atid both left dismayed. 
Duke lost its season opener 104-74 to Connecticut in the Four in the FaH tournament, an event held adhe San Jose AreM, to kick offthe buildup to the Final Four. 
"That was our worst game of the season," Goestenkors said. "I told the team, 'Now we know how bad we can be. Let'sfind out how good we can be.'" 
Purdue traveled west for its third game of the season, a 73-72 defeat at Stanford that remains the Boilermakers· onljr loss of the year. 


Fine Art Workshops May 17-29, 1999 

3 credit courses In ceramics, fibers (smc-core credit), painting & sculpture 
sponsored by Department of Art, Saint Mary's College 
call 234-4655/284-4631 
REGISTER TODAY! 
¦ WOMEN'S TENNIS 


Notre Dame mauls Michigan 
Special to the Observer 
The 13th-ranked Notre Dame women's tennis team dropped just one set in six singles match­es and swept the doubles for a 9­0 win over Michigan on Wednesday at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
The win marks Notre Dame's 15th straight over Midwest regional opponents, a streak dat­ing back tu 1997. The Irish now have beaten Michigan five con­secutive times and for the eighth time in the last nine meetings. 
Irish senior Marisa Velasco rallied from 1-4 and 3-5 deficits in the first set to beat Szandra Fuzesi 7-6 (4), 6-1 at No. 3 sin­gles to clinch the win. 
Notre Dame improves to 11-5 with the win while Michigan falls to 3-8 with their fifth-consecu­tive loss. The Irish return to court when they travel to 12th­ranked Tennessee on Saturday, Marrh 27, at 12 p.m. 
Junior Kelly Zalinski and freshman Lindsey Green put Notro Dame ahead 2-0 with two quick wins. Zalinski beat Jennifer Vaughn 6-3, 6-1 at No. 5 singles, while Green beat Alison Sinclair 6-2, 6-2 at No. 6 singles. 
Irish sophomore and eighth­ranked :vlichelle Dasso held on for a 6-2. 6-4 win over 97th­ranked Danielle Lund at No. I singles. Dasso led 5-0 in the scc­oncl set but Lund, who won the Intercollegiate Tennis A-;sociation Midwest Hegion sin­gles tftle at Notre Dame in November, rallied and served at 4-5 before Dasso broke serve f'or tlw win. 
Senior Jennifer llall, ranked 61 st. fought off a tough second set to beat Brooke Hart 6-1. 7-(1 (7-5) at No. 2 singlPs. 
After Velasco clinched the win 
for the Irish, 56th-ranked Irish 
freshman Becky Varnum rallied 
for a 3-6, 6-3, 6-4 win over 


Jennifer Boylan to complde the singles sweep. Varnum held off 15-40 in each of her final two service games to close out the match. 
In doubles, the eighth-ranked Irish team of II all-and Dasso 
Class of 1999 
Only 



Thursdays 

Left Until You Put on Your Cap and Gown. 
99¢(over
-
with college I. D. ' 
must be 21 

2 2 2 S. Michigan 
South Bend• (219) 234-5200 
Coll the Heartland Concert & Event Line (219) 251-2568 www.ACEplaces.com/heartland 
beat 24th-rankml I!art and Lund 8-3 at No. l doublns. Kim Guv and Sarah Scaringe won lh;i final f'our ganws to complete Uw win with an 8-3 victorv over Fuzesi and Sinclair at No."3 dou­bles. 


GET IN THE 






THICK 
OF IT. 


Conveniently located in the heart of downtown South Bend, Old Chicago Steakhouse has the hottest grill in cown. 
·.. Wedti~Sdays 

All-Jou.;Can-Eat Crab Legs 
. $15.95 

222 S. MICIIIGAN•SOUTII Bl•:NJJ'l21<J) 2.14-5200 


Thmsday, l'vbrch 25. 1999.__________________..!T:..'..h~e:....:0~bs::,:·e::..rv:..::e~r_•....:::S:::P:__O::=....:_R~T:....::S::'...__-.::========================================P~ag=-e=--2::::;I 
Baseball 
continued from page 24 
1ix1u·.1iy z1•ro votPS. Oh. and did I 
mention that the pitching rota­tion for Llw Colorado H1wkiPs is as in1Tl'dibll' as that of' thl' 
mighty Atlanta Brav,is. 
WP haVI' yPt to sne a nasty, l)('IWh r.t..aring brawl. an umpirn makP a had call, any playnrs hump. kirk dirt on, or spit 1111 lhost• umpiros for mak­ing that rail or anyo1w tossnd out of a gamt' !'or throwing spit­balls, 11si11g too much pirm tar or t'.or·king his 1ml. 
It's hasnhall at. its purist state, not ri<ldll\rl with tll!' prohlnms that sPem to infost th11 game. Yns, OwrP's hopP !'or 1wl'ryonn. 
TIH' ilwquality in l!•am wnalth has not brnrn conSl'(fUPntinl yet. No 0111• has had a had s1'aso11 vf'l and no 0111• is undN .S00. Not orw Pl11J)ty sPat has s1•,•n a ganw and 1111 01w has had a Bp;1niP Baby day ... yPl. 
W,· lmvpn'l s1•Pt1 tlw Marlins, l!xpos or l'irnt,)S throw away anotlwr spason hy trading any­onn who shows a glimnwr of pot.mllial and 1wrhaps most importantly, WP haVPn't had lo listPn to .Joi' Morgan ovnr-ana­lvw i\NYTI IINC1 
· This wc,-•k1\ml. llw only thing c·1•1·tain is uru-nrtainty. For this 
¦ MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
mason, I rPl'use tu "makP my picks" or discount anyone bnforn tlmy·ve discountfld them­selvns. As an avid Pirates fan, I rnl'use to writ(' off anv team, any player or any possibilities. Furtlwrmore, I refuse to do 11m same for your tnam. For to rob sonwonc of this weekend of' hope would be equivalent of ripping away thn hopeless opti­mism that makes this country grnat. 
I lowPver, some pnoplc must huvn prndictions. So it is with full nirtainty I pres1mt to you I 0 predictions that will undoubtrid­ly conrn tnm. Hem's my top tnn list or what you 're guarnntnml not lo snn in basnlmll this year. 
I01 The Expos leading Uw lnaguo in attnndance or payroll -It's just not gonna happnn. 
<J) ..Now batting for thr San l>iego Padrtis: Garth Brooks." ­Ilis next hit should be filled with that familiar twang, and l don't mean the sound coming off or tlrn bat. 
XI A C'O!t1n111 from this jour­nalist about the sucrnss of the Yankncs -Unlnss of' course they flop, I think tlrnre are r.nough of' those. 
7) David Wnlls leaving thn Blu<' .lavs lo vie l'or tho Mr. Univcrsn title -That light blue is much morn llattering to his figure, though. 
(>) Mo Vaughn is riddlml with applause upon his return to Boston. -But they left on such good terms!! 
5) Kerry Wood winning the Cy Young -The Cubs' luck just keeps getting better. 
4) Moises J\lou stealing a base -So that's why they tell you to wear the safoty clip on tread­
mills"! 
3) T-shirts titled "Infield of Drnams" in the Pittsburgh · Pirate dugout -Pat Meares, Ed Sprague and Mike Benjamin ... hmm, instead of unproved rook­ies, tho Piratns move on to vet­erans that have proven they're bad. 
2) Albert Belle edges out. Wil Cordero for any humanitarian awards. -Pretty sal'e bet 
1} .Joe Dimaggio throwing out the first pitch at Yankee stadi­um -.Joltin' Jon has left and gone away ... and baseball is left to mourn the passing of a lngend. 
Predictions or not, opnning Llay's 011 ib way. Let the excite­ment, the drama and the disap­pointment begin. I invite you to enjoy this week and hold un to the hope as long as you can. After all, soon enough, reality must take over. 
The views expressed in this column are those oflite author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Mets send Nomo to Norfolk 
1:01rr lJ\Ul>l•:Hl>J\I.E. 1:1a 
· Tht! NPw York MPts gavn up on right-handPr I lideo Nomo by out.righting tlw rn11•-linw snnsa­! ion to TriplP-A Norfolk 011 \V1)d11Psday night. 
Nomo has 72 hours lo dPcidP whPthi•r to a1·cppt ttw assign­111,•nl or dPdarc• l'rc•p agPncy. 
"!L's a cli!Ticult d1•cisio11 hPn11tsl' it involvPs a play,•r or his staltm' and giVPn what lw's dor11• in his ,·an•Pr." l\.lPts gn1wr­al 111,magp1• SlPVP Phillips said. "llut l'vp got to rnakl' a judgnwnt in what I can do to have us win as many games as we can, and this starts the process." 
Nomo, 30, starred in .Japan lwf'orn joining the Los /\ngelns Dodg1•rs in 1995. Ile won 45 gamns in Los Angnles, but strug­glcd last season and was tradcd to Uw Mnts in .lune. Ile Wt\nt 4-5 \Vith a 4.82 EHJ\ in 17 games with Nl'w York and was ilmffec­tivc this spring. going 0-2 with a 
7.62 EHA in four appearances. 
Nomo made his much-publi­ciznd lfobut in May 1995 and immndiatl'ly proved Im could pilch well in any country. Jin won the NL rookie of the year award, led the league with 236 strikeouts and limited opposing halters to a .182 batting aver­age. 
In 1996 Nomo pitched a no­hitter Sept. 17 against Colorado and went 16-11 with a 3.19 EHA. lie finished second in the !Pague by holding the opposition to a .2 l 6 batting average. 
In 1997 he recorded 233 strikeouts. But he appearnd to lose his touch last season. going 2-7 with the Dodgers beforn bning dnalt to New York in a four-player deal. 




6.9%APR 
On balance transfers Transfer those hi~h-balancc credit cards to your Notre Dame Federal Credit lJnion VISA or MasterCard and save. www.ndfcu.org 
(219) 239-6611 or (800) 522-6611

'/}J ~~~!~~1~&~~~ 
'Th" ,J1c,i;1I r.JIL' apphe, ror the i'Jrs( (l lllllnlh, nn balance lr.msfors only. Rall: w,_11 then rc,crl had 10 14.9~"... It doc, 1101 mdu,k ,'xi,tmg balance, on any Notn: l>Jmc ~cdcrnl ( ·n.·1..ht t 1nu111 Ma,tcrl \m.i or VIS/\. Promol1011 1i .1!11.i J:immry k. lhrol1gh March JI. l'-199. 

\ 

¦ MEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
MSU already looks ahead to next season 
Associated Press 

LANSING, Mich. Michigan State is hoping to 
beat Duke and then eilher 
Connecticut or Ohio State for 
the NCAA basketball champi­
onship, . 

But even if top-ranked Duke 
sends the Spartans packing 
Saturday night. Michigan 
State fans can take heart. 
With only three players grad­
uating and some hot new 
prnspects headed for campus, 
another NCAA run next year 
looks likely. 

"A lot depends on who 
leaV(~S from this team," said 
Bob Gibbons, who ranks col­
lege recruits at All Star 
Sports Publications in Lenoir, 
N.C. "But from a talent stand­
point, they could be even 
stronger next Ji)a.r than this 
year." 

Assistant athletic director 
John Parina said hfi's upbeat 
about next year's team, even 
as he's hoping this year's 
team wins the national title. 
"The future does look pretty 
bright," he said. "With the 
number of key players com­
ing back and the incoming 
cJass rated in the top 10. it 
appears things will be good." 
Seniors Antonio Smith, · 
Jason Ktehi and Thomas · Kelley are the only three players who definitely won't 
be returning. 

Junior Mateen Cleaves, the 
team's first-team All 
American, has not decided 
whether to return for his 
senior year or go to the pros. 
But even Cleaves' defection 
would be partly offset by the 
strength of new recruits, 
Gibbons said, 

He points to newcomers 
such. as Jason Richardson, a 
6-foot-6 forward at Saginaw 
Arthur Hill who receivf3d the 
Mr. Basketball award Monday 
and will join the Spartans 
next season. Last fall, 
Gibbons ranked Richardson 
eighth among recruits nation­
allv. 

Another new force next fall will be Mike Chappell, a 6-9 forward from Southfield Lathrup High who transferred to Michigan State last sum ­mer after playing for Duke 
two years. He'll still have two years of eligibility loft. 
Also on the team next year will be freshmen Jason Andreas, a 6-10 center from Sugar Crenk, Ohio, and Adam Wolfe, a 6-8 forward from Westnrville South High School in Ohio. Redshirt David Thomas, a 6-7 swingman, will pl(iy as a junior ntixt yerir. 
And the Spartans will still have 3-point whiz A . .J. Granger, bench star Morris Peterson and starters Andre Hutson and Charlin Bell on the roster. 
Even if the Spartans don't win any morn games in the NCAA tournament, making it to the Final Four will help coach Tom Izzo and his staff recruit more top prospects, Gibbons said. 
"You can't put a market value on how that means in exposure and with future recruits. Evory kid in Michigan has now got to be dreaming of being a Spartan," he said. 
Michigan State is in the same position Michigan was in the early 1990s, when the Fab Five had every high school basketball player mim­icking their baggy shorts and longing to wear maize and blun, Gibbons said. 
"Michigan State was really unable to break through" in recruiting those years, hn said. "Michigan had such a stranglehold on the top prospects in your state. It was a great imbalance there." 
All that has changed. The Wolverines finished 12-19, missing a postseason bnrth for the first time since 1983. 
And lzzo's years of recruit­ing in Michigan's shadow are over, at least for now. 
"H's noteworthy that the Spartans arc now the domi­nant recruiting school in Michigan," Gibbons said. 
That could help them in future years pull in Marcus Taylor of Waverly lligh School near Lansing, now ranked among thf' top juniors in the country. Or young up­and-comers such as Hobert Whaley of Benton Harbor and Kelvin Torbert of Flint Northwestern, he said. 

MASTER 
YOUR CAREER 
DESTINY!
-

-; · -COME TO THE SELF-ASSESSMENT WORKSHOPI 
Emu:.p.a.rt_.notks.hop_.=..AJ.te.11.d.aMi-.l.lL.lllLiut.rnngl)'.J:n.rou.ragi:d Limited space -Sign up i11 advance at Career and Placement Savices (1-5200) 
When: Thursday, March 18, 4:00-5:15 p.rn. 
Where: DeBartolo Hall -Room 213 
When: Thursday, March 25, 4:00 -5:15 p.m. Wednesday, March 31, 4:00 -5: IS p.m. Thursday, April 8, 4:00-5:15 p.m. Where: DeBartolo Hall -Room 1 16 
Presented by Olivia Williams, Assistant Director Career and Placement Services 

page 22 The Observer• SPORTS Thursday, March 25, 1999
.E....:!~------------------------=-=:.::.=.....:=-=~..;_:__::_:=----=._-----'----------------­
¦ MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

¦ WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Bell is No. 2 man for D-backs 
Associated Press wilh a lhren-run homo run and snason. 
scored four runs in a 14-6 victo­lie wound up hitting .251, his PEORIA, Ariz. ry over the Anaheim Angels. On scco11d-lowcst averagn in a The number two looms big for Wednesday, he was 2-for-4, decade. While he had 20 hom11 .lay Bell this spring. He's getting including a double, with thren runs, one short of' his earner morn and more comfortable at · RBIs, in a 7-6, 12-inning loss to bnst, and a earner-high 81 second base, and he's firmly San Diego. lie also turnf\d a slick walks, his career-high 129 
entrenched as the Nu. 2 hitter in double play on a ground ball to strikeouts and 19 errors got the Arizona Diamondbacks' bat-third baseman Matt Williams. In more attention. ting order. 16 games, he's hitting .385 in 44 BPI! was moved around in tlw 
So far. the results for the 33-at-bats with nine strikeouts and batting order last year, rnding year-old infielder have been ter-a team-high 13 walks. up morn often oithcr hitting ritk. "Basically, the key to spring sixth or second. Now he's cnr­
"Jay's -had a grnat training is building an approach tain to bo thn No. 2 hitt1H·. tlw spring,"manager Ruck and staying with it as much as same spot he had in most of' his Showalter said. "lle's come in you can, finding something that oightseasons with Pittsburgh. physically probably in as good a wurks,"Bell said. "Last year was "One of tlw things wn talknd shape as he's ever been in his not a good one for Bell. He about over the offseason was career. He's had as many at-signed a live-year, $:H million whether I was going to hit two bats as anybody, probably by contract that was widely viewed or six,"Bell said. "Buck's pretty design, to get him as comfort-as too generous, and the spot­comfortabln with nm hitting two. able as possible at second base." light was squarely on him and I'm comf'ortable hitting 
On Tuesday, Bell went 3-for-3 through Arizona's expansion two." 

NOTRE DAME GOLF COURSE 
Open daily 7-5 Rockne Memorial 
Season Pass now available SJ.25.00 
Valid on 9 hole course only Student daily 9 hole rate $5 Add'I 9 $3 Student Club Rental $5 Call 631-6425 t"or Tee Times 



DON'T LEAVE YOUR SCHEDULE UP THE CREEK IN FALL 1999! 
Registration ends 
TOMORROW for French and Spanish placement exams. Call ~ 1-6887 and follow the recorded instructions. You MUST register in advance, so be sure to call before 5 p.m. on March 26th. Questions? Contact the Department of Romance Languages at 1-6886 or stop by the department office, 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall . 
... 
Special to the Observer 
Notre Dame senior guard Sheila McMillen, who finished he career as the all-time lead­ing three-point shooter in Irish women's, basketball his­tory, will compete in the State Farm Women's Three-Point Shooting Championship at the Ice Palace in Tampa, Fla., today. 
The competition will air 
tape-delayed on ESPN at 9:30 p.m. 
McMillen is one of seven players slated to compete in the event. Among the other participants will be Amy Duran of Connecticut, Jessica Gaspar of North Carolina, Rene Hanebutt of Texas Tech, Amy Green of Clemson, Aubrey Eblin of Old Dominion and Kelly Long of Western Michigan. 
Announcing the 4th Annual Keough Summer Internships In 


Ireland 
The Internships will include: 
* 
Eight to ten weeks internship 

* 
Round trip airfare 

* 
Room and Board 

* 
Stipend 


All Notre Dame JUNIORS with a demonstrated interest in Irish studies are encouraged to apply. 
If interested, please pic.k up an application from the 
Keough Institute for Irish Studies 1146 Flanner Hall 
Applications are due by Friday, March 26, 1999. 

.Ii 
Thursday, March 25, 1999 The Observer• TODAY page 23 SLURRED SPEECI I DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
-

FOXTROT 
"81G THING'S ARE

"PREPARE To 8E SoWLU) oVER.'' 
COMING Yo\JR WA'r." 

DILBERT
.,..--============::::-7 ~--_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_---~ 
n E ~ 
M~ ~$T~OLOGER TOLO 8 
WHAT~! TI-IA.i'S THt.
i

ME TO APPROVE YOUR @ 
CORP-ECT DECISION. 
~

PROJ'E.CT PLAN 
WHAT'S GOING ON
~ 

t,..':) 15. ~ 
HEI\E.? 
:;: 

CROSSWORD 
35 Teems 64 Clarinet part 

ACROSS 
36 Cookie in 65 Future fern 1 Engrossed 
stacking 66 Dolly and others s Pooch originally 
contests from Wales 
37 Physics Nobelist 10 "J'accuse" 
DOWN

Isidor penner 
38 One Knight 1 Fred's portrayer 14 Limerick land 

39 Hand {out) on "Sanford" 15 To -­
40Constant 2 Broadcast(perfectly) 41 Attack 3 Spot broadcast,16 Nephew of Abel 43 See 31-Across often 17 Handle many 44 Prepare a Time 4 Halfhearteddeer carelessly? 

Inc. magazine? s Telephones20Agnes and 47 Foot. in zoology 6 Missouri Indian Cec1IB. 

48 Appointed relative 21 Go ballis!ic 

52 "-f1deles .. " 7 Tracks in mud 22 Blockheads 56 Nacre sources 8 M1racle--­23 Garfield's owner 

(plant food 24 Cnt1c1ze singer 
59 Transfer hay? 
brand)
61 Prefix with knock

Johnny? 
9 A/fluxesor lock31 With 43-Across. 

10 Olympian ruler 62 Be superior use bubble 11 In the past 

63 Cooer 12 Mischievous Norse god 

gum? 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 13 Entouragepart:
Abbr. 1alnan unbalanced way 19 Beethoven's birthplace 23 Noted athletic 
retiree of 1999 25 Pole images 26 Caused by 21 Musical wrap-up 28 In line 29 Ward of TV's 

5 B y T -=4~:..+-c-L C beds ARE .=+=+-~ NIA 31 Songwriter NET ~~'-'--NTER Jacques E P S 30 ~!i!~~:~·some 


32 Stromboli output 33 Mind 
34 Lush, perhaps 
41 Works as a longshoreman 42 Having some merit 45 Words before speed or snuff 46 Korea Bay feeder 49 Parisian daily, 
with "Le·· 
The Observer 

Publisbed Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Community. 
.loin the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
BILL AMEND 
PAIGE NEVER SHOULD HA'JE ToLD ME SHE ALWAYS READS 
HER HoRoScoPE. 
I 
SCOTT ADAMS 
I'-\'( i\-\£.0R'<' IS TI-H\i 1-\IS IGNORANCE CLOUOEO HIS POOR J'UOGME.NT. 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Ali MacGraw, Debbie Reynolds, A, ,nette O'Toolc, Phillip Schofield 
Happy Birthday: You can flaunt what l'ou'vc been trying to accom­plish t 1is year. Your ability to express yourself and your ideas to others will enable you to gel whatever help is re,1uired. Change will be a major part of your life as you prepare for the new millennium. If your attitude is positive, you will make headway when it comes lo obtaining your ob1ectivcs. Your numbers: 7, 13, 27, 31, 38, 40 
ARIES {March 21-April 19): Emo­tional upset will cause temper tantrums. Try to curb your reactions to situations regarding home and family. Busy yourselt with projects that require little interaction with oth­ers. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): It is best to get involved in activities that will get you out of the house. Roman­tic connections can be made if you approach someone you're interested in. It's time to say what you think. 
000 

GEMINI (May 21-Junc 20): Diffi­culties with children will surface if you break a promise. Rest and relax­ation will be required if you've been trying to do too much. Stomach prob­lems due to poor diet or stress can be expected. 00000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You need to be disciplined and focused if you don't want your negative emo­tional side to take over and ruin your day. Spend time making improve­ments to yourself. You'll be happy youdid.OO 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your out­going personality will help inspire confidence in others. Get involved in events that require physical en­durance. Your need to be in the limt'­light will bring oul tht' sh,>wman i11 
you.0000 
VIRGO {Aug. 23-Sept. 22); New friendships can be established if you participate in social activities or worthwhile functions. Your ability to deal with groups won't go unnoticed. 
000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Some· one you live with will be totally unpredictable. Avoid involvemenl with overindulgent individuals. Prob­lems with your house must b,• taken care of immediately. 000 
SCORPIO {Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Your keen memory will help you outsmart any opponent who tries to pull a fost one on you. Set the stage for your next big change. It's lime for you to spruce up your image 000 
SAGITTARIUS {Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You'll make money if you're willing to put your cash on the line. A worth­while investment may not b~ what your mate has in mind. Use your own cash and you won't have a problem. 0000 
CAPRICORN {Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
Make special plans for ycu and the one you love. Romance will lead to a passionate and fulfilling night. You can stabilize your relationship and make future plal\6. 00 
AQUARlUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't let your work interfere with your responsibilities to the ones you love. If you made a promise to do things with family, you mustn't renege. Your work will still be there when you get back. 00000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March ZOl: Potential lovers will show interest in you if you are happy and/osith·e about yourself. You nee to get involved in organizations that will allow you to grow. 000 
Birthday Baby: You have a strong intuition and lots of creative talent that must be nurtured and developed. You have your own way of doing things. Although others may not have the same vision as you, you must follow tfiat small voice within you. 
• OF. INTEREST 
Disability Awareness Week-Lori Miller '97 will dis­cuss her experiences as a blind woman in the athletic and academic worlds after leaving Notre Dame tonight at 7 p.m. in the Office for Students with Disabilities, Call Scott Howland at 631-7157 for more information. 
The Millvale Franciscans recruiter, Sr. Donna Steplmn~on, wlll be in the library concourse from 1-4 
p.m. today and will host an information session at the CSC tonight at 5:30 p.m. This is a 1-2 year program in Pittsburgh and surrounding areas. Volunteers are placed in a variety of positions depending on their skills. In the past, placements have included educa­tion, health care and social services, 
> • New Yo:rk Teacher Service Program-Sr. Deanna Sabetta will he at the CSC from 10 a.m to 5 p,m. today to talk to students who are interested in this teaching program. Volunteers teach in high schools principally in inner city areas of Manhattan and the Bronx. 
From Service to Justice: Careers in Social Change­No.tre Dame graduates Cece Schickel, Chris and Allison Nanni will join Judith .Johns for a panel discus­sion on careers in social change at 7 p,m, tonight in the CSC. A reception will follow. 
THE OBSERVER IS CURRENTLY ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FORA ONE-PANEL CARTOONIST. 
The Observer 
P.O. BoxQ 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
50 Set up financially 51 Search (into) 52 Yon 53 Completed 54 Art Deco designer 
55 Winter fender­bender cause 56 With a bow, to Stern 57 Boxer Max 58 Gets the picture 60 Food pkg. abbr. 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 {95.i per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are avaiIable for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years. 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 

D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name ________________________ 
Address ___________________ 
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
•­
.. 

• 
r 
WalloPin!? the Wolverines 
¦ Michelle Dasso and the Irish women's tennis team
-
dropped only one set in nine matches to defeat Michigan 9-0.






PORTS 
O 
THE

page24 ·---------BSERVER Thursday, March 25, I999 

¦ MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Source: University officers reject Majerus 
•· 
look al it, I have to conclude it'sMalloy, Beauchamp not a good lit, and I'm going to stay at Utah."
allegedly turn down 
According tu the Tribune. Mallov and Heauchamp
Wadsworth '.s No. 1 
allegidly rejected Majeruscoaching candidate based on his personal lire and 
comments he made in his By MIKE CONNOLLY recent book, "My Life on a Associ3te SJ")rts Editor Napkin."' 
Rick Majrrus planned to accept Notre Dame's mrn·s baskPtball head coaching position until hn learn.-<l that University µresident Father Edward Malloy and executive vice president Father William Beauchamp expressed conc.erns about his character. a source closP tu the 
UnivNsity of Utah coach told the Chicago Triburrn \'Vedncsday. 
'Tm kind or sad," Majerus said. "Through the nuwlings we had, I thought thr.rp was mutual interest. But tlw more I 
Malloy's and Beauchamp's officns would not comment on 
¦ IRISH INSIGHT 
the administrators' opinions of Majerus' drn.ractnr 

Hiring, firing policies are 
At't«~r hearing of Malloy and Beauchamp's alleged decision, 

embarrassment to University
Majerus told Andy Kat:,, of 

when you thought the University hitirarchy couldn't 
'THROUGH THE MEETINGS WE HAD, I also noted that athletic 
director Michael

THOUGHT THERE WAS MUTUAL 
scrnw up anothr,r assign­
Wadsworth and

INTEREST. BUT THE MORE' I LOOK AT IT, I ment. they did just that.
Majerus met on three 
It sc11rns that Hick Majerus

HAVE TO CONCLUDE IT'S NOT A GOOD FIT occasions -most 
isn't good 1mough to coach at
recently 011 Sunday in
AND I'M GOING TO STAY AT UTAH.' 

Notre Damn. Wait, maybe his ESPN.corn that he bad with­
By ALAN WASIELEWSKI
drawn his name from consider­
Sports Writer 
ation as the next Irish head coach. 
They've done it again ..lust
The Tribune article 
Nl'.'w Y1irk. . 

not bei11g a good enough p«ir­
The athletic depart-
son is a more accurate

RICK MAJERUS ment would not con­
ass1~ss1rnrnt. 

UNIVERSITY OF UTAH BASKETBALL CoArn firm any meeting 
In the book. Majerus wrote that lw would consider it hypo­critical to discipline an athlete for academic fraud since he often cheated while lw was a student at Marquettn Univ<'rsity in Milwaukee, Wis. 
Representatives from 
¦ ON THE Hor CORNER 

Baseball's back and all is well for now 
By BRIAN CHORNEY 
S rt Writ r 
Can you smell it in the air? 
No, not the ethanol -beyond that. 
It's the glorious smell ofopportunHy; It's a smelJthat conies around only once a year and ·with the small excepti<m of one year, its been here every year since World Warn. 
It's a smell that sports fans love. It's a smell that transcends generations. race barriers and gender lines. It perseveres through political scandals, NATO bombs and presidential cam­paign declarations. 
It's smell defines this weekend astho greatest weekend in all 
ofsports. No, not because of the Final Four, not because the NBA season is winding down and not because three-quarters of the NHL is on the brink of qualifying for the playoffs. 
This week, in my humble opinion, is the bestweek in sports because baseball ison its way. What's even greatft about this week is the hope that every baseball fan can have it di:eam tn 
hold on to. · 
One-hundred sixty three. That number symbolizes this hope, these dreams. ft's a number that means equality. For that num­ber is the magic number of every major league team. 
Whether you're a fan of the Yankees, Braves, Dodgers, Cubs, Pirates. Expos or even Marlins, you're as near 163 as anyone else. 
You're tho same distance away from clinching your division, whether you spend 85 million dollars or 12 million dollars; Whether you finished last year with a record 114 wins or fin­ished last year with 108 losses; vVhether your season finished in late October or late September, you're on equal ground. 
Every team is hi first place. Everyone controls their own.des• tiny. No one's on a losing streak, a slump or a road trip. Indeed, everyone is happy, 
The same parity goes for players. 
After all. Mark McGwire has as many home runs as Ryan McGuire; Grog Maddox has same ERA as Jaime Navarro; Kevin Orie is batting as well as Tony Gwynn. What's more, Mark Wohlers hm:: yet towalk a brttter,)i)Se Ol'fnrrrta.ri. hasy(lt to r,otri~ mit an error and Albert Belle has y~tto lose his tel)'.lper ... , Well, · we can't have everything can we'? .· · 
Ken Griffey Jr. leads Juan Samuel int.he All Star voting by 
see BASEBALL / page 21 
Long ago, MajPrus clrnatnd
between Wadsworth 
a little bit and admitted in
and Majerus, 
his np,w book, "My Lifo on a
Majerus originally expressed 
Napkin," that Im would havP
conc,!rn that University leader­
trouble punishing a student
ship would not accept his casu­
for cheating. lie said lw
al, indeprndent lifestyle. 
would l'e!d like a hypocrite.
Majerus is a bachelor who livr.s 
This was one of' tlw r<!asons
in hotels and has traditionally 
Father Edward Malloy and 
see MAJERUS/ page 16 
Father William lfoauchamp allegedly docidPd that Urn wasn't fit to coach at Notre Dame. 
This decision f'ollow11d ath­letic director Mike Wadworth's allegPd r!ndorse­mcnt of' Majerus as IH\W Irish coach. It sncms our athletic dirnctor has a clifTnrl'nt SPt of' criterion to r.hoosl' a new coach than our Univr\rsity prcsiden t and vin~ µrnsid«-nt. 
What was supposed to bt\ a smooth sdPction process has turn«>d into anotlwr contro­VPrsv. It should come as no surp.ris«-. This administration brcl'ds controvcrsv. 
First th1•y bu ngli,d tlw Lou lloltz dismissal. Isn't il obvi­ous now that Lou still want«-d 
see INSIGHT I page H, 
¦ WOMEN'S CREW 


The Observer/Jett Hsu 
In its inaugural varsity season, the women's crew team hopes to remain competitive in the talented Big East. The Big East season begins on April 25 at the Georgetown Invitational. 

Irish row into East Lansing 
By ANTHONY BIANCO Associate Spans Editor 
For a group just get.ting its feet wet. l\'otre Dame's crew team looks like a squad of seasoned boating veterans. 
Named the 26th varsity and 13th women's sport on cam­pus last fall, the Irish are far from having just left the dorks. 
The team was christened as a varsity sport last October at the Head of the Bock Regatta, during which the Open Eight teams finished sixth, 12th and 
16th in a field of 24 while the Open Four team finished third and the Lightweight Eight fin­ished in first. 
With the inaugural regatta, the Indiana Indoor Championships, and most recently the Thomas White Hegatta under their belts the Irish seem comfortable com­peting at the varsity level. 
"We've had more time on the water this year [because of our varsity statusl,"said team captain Katie Fox of' the team's successtis. "We've also had more one-on-one strength and conditioning, and our coaches haV!~ been able to pay more attention to the team." 

Having compettid in two out­door races against many other 11stablishcd varsity teams has also given Fox and her tnam an added sensn of confidence. Both the October meet and the Thomas White Hngatta over spring break wern infor­m al meets officiated by the participating schools' coaches rather than NCAA officials. For a team new to thn l'iolcl. these in f'o rm al meets hav11 
see CREW / page 14 

• 
y 
Track and Field at Purdue Invitational 
Baseball vs. Ohio State 
at Villanova Friday, 4 p.m. 


SPORTS 

Saturday, noon Friday-Saturday 
ATA 

Softball vs. Hobart Track and Field vs. Toledo Saturday, 2 p.m. ar Huntington College 
...... 
~ 

Saturday, 1 p.m. ~ Saturday, 11 a.m.
GLANCE 



