Diamond Diplomacy
8ff\.,o-le-'te-t6 """ 1 v-«-t-e-1 e-6 
Monday

¦ The Cuban national baseball team hosted the the new movie '200 Cigarettes.' 
¦ See what che Scene critics had to say about Baltimore Orioles in the first major league game there in 40 years. MARCH 29, 
Scene• 10 
Sports• 14 
1999 


THE 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 113 
Kosovo CR1s1s 
NATO broadens airstrikes 

A,.,ociatctl Press 
WASIIINGTON 
T.lw AmPrican and allitH.! air armada liroadPllPd its attacks 011 Yugoslavia nn Sunday lo larg11t SPrb military forces in Kosovo. raising t.lw risk to NATO pilots but also holding tlw promisP of 
• "NATO calls 
111 o ni C' ITti r li vn st r ikc s Serb assault
agains1 Snrb ground 
'genocide'."
lrnops. PrtisiclPnt Clinton 
p.5

said "tlw continued bru­tality and rnprnssion of tlw S1il'b forms furtlwr undt•rscorcs tlw rrn()d liir NATO lo pnrsPvnn•." 
Tiu• PP11tago11 announc1Hl that morn /\nwrican warpla1ws, including B-52 long­rangP bomlrnrs, would b<' addPd Lo tlw near­ly 200 nlrt\arly pnrticipating in Opera1ion AlliPd 1:orr<·. Spokesman Ken Bacon said i>P(WPPn six and 12 planes would go, and Britain anno111H'.<•d it was sending 12 morn lighl<•rs and light bomlrnrs. 
J\s a liflh straight night of NATO bombing got 1111dor way, including cruiso missiln strikos by B-;,2 bomlrnrs, Lim P1mtagon and NATO w1H"11 orticiallv mum on what brought down an Air Forcn· F-I17 t\ stealth lightcr­ho m linr 1war llw Yugoslav capital on Sat.urday. A senior dnfonsn onicial, howcvnr. said llwrn ar<' strong indications it was hit l>y a s11rl"acn-lo-air missile, possibly tho 
see BOMBINGS I pagl' 4 
Escalation in Yugoslavia . ' 
NATO broadaned its attack.& on \'u90stav1a en Sunday, lhe fftt:h day ol alrstrlkes. the Unit~d SlE1le11 and Btitaio M~ pledged mom ~.fP-'11fles._~_look_ 1_1_,camage •ue,sment lo tt,t~: 
HUNG:4:RY 

TA~GETS Hli So,,,bor 
' Hit n prnvio.1i;d11)'$ 
l<ui,1 


11 M1J.mry compounds
CJ'ICA1'iA 

Nov1S11d .• Weapons tac1llt1es 
..J-9udjanovcl : 
F·1l7Asleal1hhghle! ~ 

Alll'Jgedl·t shol down I .......... AllkOVICil Katarevo 
B111a1n1ca ..., () 

• • Pencevo 50km 
WWW. ND.EDU/-OBSERVER 
¦ NEWS ANAJYSIS 

Professor: Airstrikes increase involve01ent 
By TIM LOGAN News Editor 

While the NATO airstrikes on Serb military targets in Kosovo reached their fifth day Sunday, the likelihood of an extended air campaign, and possibly even ground involve­ment, is growing, according to Gilburt Loescher, professor of government and internationa.l relations. 
The Pentagon's announce­ment Sunday that it would send more American war­planes to the Balkans escalat­ed U.S. involvement in the cri­sis and only fed talk of a pro­tracted bombing campaign with the potential use of ground forces. Regardless of the outcome of the bombing, there is a significant chance that NATO troops will be sent. in on the ground. 
"It could be the beginning of a long-standing NATO involve­ment in Kosovo," Loeschet· said Friday. "Even if bombing is· flffective and Milosevic does 
capitulato, what will he nned­ed is a greater presencn to makn surn Lhat. it doesn't flare up again." 
That grnater presence nxist.s in the form of" 12,000 NATO soldiors gathered in nnighbor­ing Macedonia. Despitfl prns­sure f'rom a number of sides, 
U.S. officials have stated that they do not plan lo use ground forces to stop the Serb ofl'nn­sivc. 
These NATO peaceke(1pers in Macodonia would liknly bn the first group to enforco a cease-fire if the Yugoslav army halts its ol'l'cnsive in Kosovo and the bombing cam­paign is stopped. 
This forcn would likely not solve the problems on its own, however, said Loescher, who pointed to the extendnd involvemont of United Nations peacekeepers in Bosnia. 
"fl will require a protractnd NATO force in place ovor a 
see KOSOVO I page 4 


Hesburgh: Peacemaking On the catwalk is most 'holy' vocation 
By TIM LOGAN 
New, 1'.tliw1 
StudPnts <:an work fi1r pnace and juslkP al many l<'YPls, said Fatlrnr ThPodoro llesburgh, president m1rnrit11s of tlrn Llniwrsity. Saturday in thn knynoLP 
r----,..."'l!!"'c"""l"l addrnss l"or this wpekend 's 1wac11 studios confer­m1r.1\. 
lleshurgh dis­cussnd tlw devel­
opnwn I. of the concPntralion in µnacn studies at Hesburgh 
Notrn Darn11 and urgt:d stud1111ts to do whal they can 
l.O work for peace. 
"No matter what your age, no maltnr whcre you am. you can put in a word for justice," he said. "By pulling in that word l"or justice, you're a 1wacmnaker." 
I lnsburgh enrouraged sludm1ts to g<it involvnd and to work for pnace and justini i11 Lheir lives and in the world around them. 
"01' all the various things you mighl do in lifn, ptHlC!J -peace­making, peacekeeping -has got to Im Urn most exalted and most holy," twsaid. 
Tho conference, commemorating thu 15th anniversary of the under­graduate Peace Studies Concentration. was student-run and foaturml presentations from a num­bnr of students on pnace and justice issuns. 
It was undergraduates who first approached Hesburgh about start­ing a nonviolence curriculum at Notrn Dame when he was president or the University during the Vietnam War, he said. A group of student leadr.rs asked him about beginning classes on peace and, with some timely funding from Gulf Oil Corp., course offerings were soon initiated. At the time, few uni­versities taught about peace issues, and the idea was a somewhat new one. 
"Twenty years Ibefore Vietnam]. no one would've thought of a course in nonviolence," he said. 
Further donations from philan­thropist Joan Kroc, established the Joan 8. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies as a permanent fixture at Notre Dame and paid for construction of the llesburgh Center for International Studies. In 198:1-84, tho undergrad­uatn concentration in peace studies began. 
Now the peace studies concentra­tion is one of the largest and most 
see HESBURGH / page 4 



.--=.z WWW 
page 2 
¦ INSIOE COLUMN 


Uninvited Guests 
To the group of' men who seem to believe, bv virtue of tlrn fact that they held Casino N·ight tickets, they had the right to enter my room, lock out my roomm,ttes and mysnlf, 
fill the air with smoke,-';".::==~==::­
spread ashes and cig­a retto butts on the windowsills and in glasses and cans and to leavn with our larg­r.r-than-lif!. cardboard cutout of the Pillsbury Dough Hoy: Who do you think you arc'? 

Mem be rs of the Anne Marie Mattingly 
McGlinn flail com-Associote News Editor 
m unity invested 
countless hours to provide you with a good 
time. Our commissioners and other volun­
teers worked for months tQ,organize tickets, 
advertising. deafors, card tables, t-shirts 
and decorations. Our rector, assistant rec­
tor and resident assistants all remained on 
duty throughout the event to protect your 
safety and well being, Our residents emp­
tied their rooms and their wallets so that 
you could attend parties and enjoy your­
selves. Our housekeepers came to work 
early Saturday morning to ·clean up the 
messes you lf'fl behind. 
Apparently, all of that. wasn't good 
enough. 
I was one of the lucky ones. One good 
friend stopped by and realized that our 
door was locked. Knowing that my room­
mates and I would not refuse to let her in, 
she found an R.A. to throw you out. A sec­
ond person, who recognized that you were 
making your exit with Mr. Pillsbury, chased 
you down the hall and recovered what you 
had attempted to steal. 
But other McGlinn residents whose 
friends and neighbors were not so close by 
were also locked out of their rooms, had 
their living spaces vandalized and property 
destroyed, and were robbed of jackets, wal­
lets and keys. 
Perhaps, in some way or another, this is 
mv fault. 
After all, I'm the one who decided that 
carrying around keys was too much trouble 
and left the door unlocked. I'm the one who 
visited friends in other areas of the building 
for more than 15 minutes at a time. And 
I'm the one who didn't store every last item 
I own in someone else's room. I might be 
naive, but I really did expect the Notre 
Dame and Saint Mary's community to show 
a little more maturity. 
According to the well-known poem "All I 
Heally Need to Know I Learned in 
Kindergarten," some of life's earliest 
lessons are supposed to be "Clean up your 
own mess" and "Don't take things that 
aren't yours." 
Perhaps you didn't attend kindergarten. 
Maybe you were too busy digging through 
the schoolbox of the kid sitting next to you 
to listen to what the teacher was saying. It's 
even possible that you were there and that 
you did hear it, but you just decided that 
the basic rules of respecting others and 
showing common courtesy that govern the 
actions of the rest of us don't apply to you. 
1 don't know how you've made it this far 
through life living the way that you do, but 
it's time to grow up. 
After all, you're not in kindergarten any­
more. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
¦ TOOA'(S STAFF  
News  Scene  
Finn Pressly  Julie Hamilton  
Brad Untiedc  Mike Vanegas  
Erica Thesing  Graphics  
Sports  Scotr Hardy  
Bill Han  Production  
Viewpoint  Kathleen Lopez  
Colleen Gaughen  Lab Tech  
Mary Leffers  

l'h, Ohservor (USPS 599 Z-4000) 1, published Monday through Friday r:x.cepc during exam .and vacation periods. The Obii-crvcr is ii mcmbtr of rhc-A.-.sodart>J Pre:,;Ji. All reproducti~n rights 1re reserved. 
The Observer• INSIDE Monday, March 29, 1999 





utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Tennis coach settles harrassment lawsuit with former players 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. 
Syracuse University and head tennis coach .Jessie Dwirn settled out of court with two former tennis players Thursday evening, ending a $762 mil­lion sexual harassment lawsuit and morn than two years of controversy, allogaiions and debate. 
SU and Dwire settled with senior Dacia Kornechuk, 1998 graduate Kirsten Ericson and lheir parents, who liled the suit lasL spring. Jury selection fur the trial was set to begin Monday in Now York's Southern District Federal Courthouse. 
Kevin Morrow, SU spokesperson, said late Thursday night the university 
· will issue an official statement to the Board of Trustees announcing the set­tlement. Terms of the settlement will be undisclosed, he said. "Dacia Kornechuk and Kirsten Ericson and their rnspective parents have entered into a mutually accept­


Kornechuk and Ericson alleged in the suit that Dwire harassed them verbally and physically, gave thf'm unwanted massages, had inappropriate sexual discussions with team members and threatened their scholarships and play­ing time. 
The two women filP-d a complaint in the university's judicial system in the spring of 1997. SU appointed a panel that heard the case and found Dwire guilty on two counts of verbal harass­ment. The first count was for giving what has beP-n called the "GAP speech" lo the team -where Dwire told players they shop at Gap because "Girls Arc Pathetic," The second involved a con­versation wi.th Ericson about oral sex. The panel found him innocent of threatening scholarships and playing time and forcing massages on playnrs. 
SU suspended Dwire, who began his tenure as head tennis coach in 1978, for thrcti months without pay during the summer of 'I 997. lie still serves as the tennis coach. 
William Dealy, attorney f'or the for­mer players, told The Daily Orango in the fall that the women filed suit against the school because the univer­sity conducted a "sham" sexual harass­ment hearing by refusing to hear the testimony of former players who came forward saying Dwire had also harassed them. 

¦ UNIVEflSITV Of SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA ¦ UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA 
Lucas gift leads to new film studio Investigators suspend frat 
LOS ANGELES 
A new digital studio will be built at University of Southern California courtesy of a $1. 5 million donation from director George Lucas, the USC School of Cinema-Television announced. The new studio will be named after the late Japanese filmmaker Akira Kurosawa and will be an addition to the Robert Zemeckis Center for Digital Arts, which is set to be completed in 2001. "With this gift, George Lucas con­tinues to demonstrate his heartfelt support of young film­making. talent at USC," said Elizabeth Daley, dean of the School of Cinema-Television. "It's especially gratifying to see his name paired with Robert Zemeckis in this gift to the new Center for Digital Arts. Both of them are masters of experi­mentation, and both are genuinely invested in helping the next generation continue to push the envelope. The state-of-the-art digital studio will feature the latest in digital filmmaking." 
¦ DUKE UNIVERSITY Alumni, fans head to Final Four sites 
DURHAM, N.C. It's a weekend that is likely the biggest in the entire histo­
. ry of Duke athleti~s. It's also one the university won't stand by and watch idly. The women are headed for San Jose, the men for St. Petersburg. Charters full of alumni and fans are headed to both destinations. Others will be waiting at the Final Four sites to greet both teams. The benefits for the two programs are obviolJS, from publicity to recruiting. But how do the rest of the athletic department and the university as a whole fit in? Does all of the attention filter down, and how much of a difference does it really make? Certainly there is increased visibility and positive energy. "I have talked to so many people, received so many messages and e-mails from alumni and friends who are euphoric about this historic moment, and determined to do everything they can to cheer the teams on from every part of the world," said president Nan Keohane. 
PIIILADELPIIIA 

While the investigations into alcohol and risk manage­ment policy are still ongoing, both the University and the Phi Gamma Delta national fraternity temporarily suspend­ed Penn's FIJI chapter. FIJI national Executive Director Bill Martin performed a day-long investigation on campus Tuesday into possible violations of the fraternity's alcohol and risk management policies surrounding the death of 26-year-old Penn alumnus and Phi Gamma Delta brother Michael Tobin. Martin's probe determined FIJI violated risk management policy stating that FIJI chapters are not to purchase and/or provide alcohol to anyone and that if a chapter wants to hold an event, participants must bring their own alcohol or hold the event at a third-party loca­tion. While suspended, FIJI cannot hold any chapter activ­ities until the national five-member board of conduct reaches a final disciplinary decision. 
¦ UN1vrnsnv OF Sourn fLORmA 
President says NCAA undergoing change 
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. 

Contrary to popular belief, the sky is not falling in Overland Park, Kan., home of the national headquarters for the NCAA. But in his annual media address Thursday at Tropicana Field, NCAA president Cedric Dempsey acknowledged that the organization has been through trying times as of late. From a major -gambling scandal at Northwestern last summer, to the recent court decision rendering previous standards for fresh­man eligibility null and void, Dempsey said the year has been "truly an eventful one" for the NCM. "The main qu·estion that's been presented to me recently is, 'Do you feel the NCAA is under siege'?"' Dempsey-said. "But I don't believe that at all. It feels like we are in the midst of significant social, economic and cultural changes that are taking place. I also feel the association is undergo­ing a transformation at this point." 
¦ SOUTH BENO WEATHER ¦ NATIONAL WEATHER 
S Day South Bend Forecast 
Acc-uWeather@.) forecasl for <layrime condi[ions and high temperatures 
,,.,,,,,£.,,.,M,m,.m ................ , 
r-....,... H L 
I 
Monday ~60 32 Tuesday l) 60 35 Wednesday~ 69 46 Thur~day wrNDr 70 52 
COI..O WARM STAT/DNARY 


Fri~f_,-,/'~-65. 52 


High Low Showers Rain T•storm• Flurt1ea Snow tee SonAy Pt. Cloudy C:loUdy 
Via As-soclatlfd Pren 

e 199fl AccuWeather, Inc. 
Atlanta 70 48 Des Moines 62 35 Miami 79 66 Baltimore 67 38 Denver 65 24 New Orleans 71 58
4,Q,~q6}. Q ¢-~ Ll Chicago 62 33 Houston 71 60 New York 62 42 Columbus 61 39 Los Angeles 73 53 Phoenix 88 58
Sh(M'a,s T-storms Rain Flu"ies Snow Ice Suntly Pt. Cloudy CIOudy 
Dallas 66 52 Louisville 68 39 Vermillion 60 25 
VI! Associated Pre~s Orar,hicsNer 

Monday, Mardi 29, 1999 The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Architecture marks 100th anniversary 
Sp~cial to The Ob,erver 
In c11lebrntion of its i:cnten­nial. Notrn Damo's School of Art·hitncture presented an alumni conl'l'rnnce "Huilding Community; A Contury in tho School of Arrhitet.:ture" Saturday. 
Thn 'ovonl spotlightnd rnccrnt additions to Notre Dame's eampus archHncturt~ and olfornd rnlleciions on Llw sclwol by past chairs, faculty and alumni. 
Nolri1 Dm1lt! oll'Hrs the onlv fully ar,cr11dit0,d curriculum in classicl\l arrhitccture in the 
U.S. and hm, btien culh,d «t.he /\thens or tho 1rnw movn­1111rnt" by lhe New York Tinws. 
Thn conferc,n,:c hogan with a discussion in the Eck CPnl1!r of the school's accom­plish men ls und Lhn o!Ticinl rclonsn of tho br,ok "100 YPnrs of ArC'hitecture at Nntrn Darnu: A llistory ol' lhe School of Arrhilf'cturn. 1898­1998,'' edited by Jane Devine, 
Three former architecture chnirs, Frank Montana, Hobert Amico and Thomas Gordon Smith, otTtlred rellec­tlons during tho aftornoon sossion in Bond Hull, tho school's home on campus. Tho a.rtcrnoon also featured trilmtus to Alice Wesoloski. secretltl'V for the architecture school ·ror 40 years. who returod in June, and Don Sporleder, professor of archi­tocturn, who will retire in 
May, 
An open house in Bond !fall f'ollowed in the eveuii1g. The building was rmrnmf1d in honor of the benefactor of tho newly renovated and enlarged building, William Bond, Jr., a Notre Damo 
alumnus. 
The celobra.tion concluded with an auction of watHrcol• ors and drawings by Frank Montana, which benefitted tho Frank Montana Horne Sr.hola1·ship Fund. 
¦ MumCUlTURAL BEAT 


Dance, song highlight evening 
By ALLISON JAY Hrown 'n' Proud, a Latino organization of' 4-to News Writer 22-year-olds who sing and dance, kicknd oil' thn evening with their spirited swing dancing. 
From Orn lively dancing of Brown 'n' Proud to "Thny practic11 with thoir wholo !wart and Urn songs of Magdalena Zepeda, Lalin souls, and it's a grnat opportunity for t.hcrn to Exprnssions 199') proved Lobo a success. come to Notre Dame. Ttrny really lov(1 it," said 
Members of the Notre Dame community gallwrnd last Friday night at StPpan Cnntnr tn nxpo9i­tmco poetry. music and dancing, rnprnsentating many aroas of tho llispaniccommunity. 
"I think we had a wondorf'ul turnout and that it was u sue­ccss," said sophomore Marisa 
Marquez, prcsidcnt of La Alianza. "It was nncouraging to ser, that thcrn was widespread represcn­talion o!' thu different cornmuni­tins on campus." 
Public relations commissimwr Anna Lisa Vargis had equally positive comments regarding the evnnt. 
Vargis. 

The audinnco also had tlrn opportunity to h<\ar Mariachi ND 'IT WAS ENCOURAGING TO pnrf'orm '-'Viva Mexico," and view 
SEE THAT THERE WAS the First Class St1!ppnrs ol' ND. "Tlw Latino community is WIDESPREAD REPRESENTA-growing and so is tho quality of' TION OF THE DIFFERENT Latin Exprnssions," said COMMUNITIES ON CAMPUS.' lleribcrto Bodrigwiz, socrntary ol' Lu Alianza. 
"I think what was most impor-MARISA MARQUEZ tant about the night was that people on.r·oycd tho acts and 
PHESI/J/J'NT OF LA AUANZA 
walked away with a new sonso ol' unclr,rstanding ol' tlw Latino ·•' culturn," said Marquez. ,,.,; ''' · ,;:,iJ Tho profits f'rom thn 10th annual Latin Expressions will lrnnef'it tho sur­
"WhilP it was a struggle getting ii together. rounding South Bend community, and a scholar­tlwre was a big turnout. I think everyone really ship will be given to a dnserving South BPnd enjoyed the acts." she said. "It felt good to see senior who plans to attend Notrn Dame or Saint Brown 'n' Proud up them. It was tlrnir time to Mary's. shimi." 
Kish: Rockne left coaching legacy 
ERIN PIROUTEK News Writer 
The Few The Proud The Observer 

Enlist Today Call Tim at 1-5323 
No ollci matches Knute Hockne's legacy us a coa.ch­makcr, said Bernie Kish, direc­tor of the College Football Hall of Fame. speaking at the 68th annual Hockne Mass and Breakfast. 
llis speech emphasized Hocknc's relationship with his players and the instrumental role Rockne played in trans­forming players into skilled coaches. 
"Hocknc truly was close to his boys," said Kish. before rnading selections of letters Hockne had written in 1924 to the Four llorsemen, the famous Notre Dame backf'icld combination of Harry Stuhldreher, Jim Crowley, Don Miller and Elmer Layden. 

Hockne attempted to find positions for all playnrs with a. desire to coach. Colleges and high schools across the nation 
recruited his play­ers as coaches, Kish said. 
The prevailing opinion was that to succeed, a col­lege football team 
needed a couple or former Notre Dame players Oil the coaching staff, said Kish. Although the Four Horsemen arc 
'IT DIDN'T MATIER WHO YOU WERE; [ROCKNE] GAVE YOU THE RESPECT YOU DESERVED., 
P11IL Stcuso SPEAKl:'R 

famous for thHir skills on the field, all four pur­sued successful couching careers. 
In 1CJ:30, 90 of' Hockne's l'or­mnr players were coaching. with 32 as head coachns at major universities, according to Kish. 
"Hockne's disciples did very, 
very well." said Kish. Ninn mnn who playnd or coached with Hockne have lrn1m ind uctecl into the College Football I I all of Fame as coaches. 
Notre Damn snnior Phil Sicuso, a walk-on f'ootball play­er. delivered opnning remarks. 
"It didn't 
matter 
who you w e r e ; IHocknnl gave you thn rospect 
y O LI 
dcserv1id." Sicuso said. 
Hockne understood that Notrn 
D a m e could not be grnat without all the pt'opln whose namns you'll never mad in tho ncwspapm, Sicuso said. 
Tho hrnakf'ast was prncndnd by Mass at Dillon I lall chapnl. with Fatlrnr Paul Doyle prnsid­in g. Tho Notrn Damn Glee Club provided music. 


Clarity Consulting, Inc. 

Looking for acareer in asmall but nationally-recognized consulting-firm? 
Clarity Consulting, Inc., with offices in downtown Chicago, specializes in the design ond implementation of leading-edge Windows-based client/server information systems. Clarity will be discussing career opportunities in an on-campus presentation. 
• 
Clarity is ayoung, talented, entrepreneurial company that hos extensive experience in custom application development, strategic planning, technical design and project management within the Fortune 500 community. 

• 
Clarity is oMicrosoft Solution Provider Partner. 

• 
Clarity consultants have diverse educational and technical backgrounds, including Computer Science, Engineering, Business, and Libero! Arts. 


If you want an exciting career which offers continuous challenges and agreat future, mark our presentation on your calendar. Visit www.claritycon.com for more information. 
DATE: Tuesday, March 30th 
TIME: 7:00PM -9:00PM 
PlACE: University Club, Main lounge 
•Refreshments will be serve1J 

~/IT¥ 

~ 

~~ I U l TING 
.,n,tncr · ---·· ...-.. ---­


Fine Art Workshops May 17-29, 1999 

3 credit courses In ceramics, fibers (smc-core credit), painting & sculpture 
sponsored by Department of Art, Saint Mary's College call 284-4655/284-4631 
REGISTER TODAY! 
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Monday, March 29, 1999 
-
of monumental injustice and you do something to balance




Hesburgh 
that, you're working for justice 
continued from page 1 and peace," he said. "God 
knows you'vc got a lot of injus­active such programs in the · tice in this world." University, and Hesburgh The conference, which was eucouraged its studenl'i to take held Friday and Saturday in the advantage of their opportunities Hesburgh Center for to combat oppression and International Studies, was spon­inequality. sored by the Kroc Institute and 
"If you're working in a place the College of Arts and Lfltters. 
..... ;;,..., . . 
-~~~~:pJ:;~lti~ 
a ~1~opo~attast ,1eru"

the .5lst D.S.. state ---atebt)qd setbac~)n:-__ · 
ll3!~1v~1!t"~;t 
. strolig ib<:nlt let~ al funds annually and has a SJ?.'.djl$h~spealtjn~ is!amf. some trappings of indepen­it.~ltf~ -~~l!W.!3¥wY staff},< dtmce.Jjke its _own Olympic
:tll~A,t,nn;m~ ltl3/!1&hticansk'' team•. Manv fear•statehoud 
•iaUyr:fe;~t a PrterttYRicati would nieatl nofonly federal w-0i.lld -.send mainly _ taxes but imposed English as 
· Hemocrat~ 7'"" two Senators well. -qp: e;ncrpgrceseptll/ Stat~hood supp9rters say .::.: ,t .itolHi!.h · Puerto Ricans are_second-class iar,th't}Senate ha'l sched-U.S. citizens, unahln to vote for 
heii:l~g;ai_ for ri,1ay 6 to the president and Congress¥;,t.pe, .r,~sult 9~i thatca.Q_,sendthe1t1to war. ~-'bbrlQf~nt te'f~r'i!J'' -RO$$~llt1's New rrngressive 
* il?rJsidentClintoH"'w Party has argued that the favora..hle lett-er United States is a "nation of Q Nt(Mr:clarify:h natiori$'' :and it Sp4nish-speak­
, 'f.il:S~fos. t;@;:•ing stat1iwould not he>SO has bee'ri a U.S: unusual. t~ftitory~~Inco th~ United Last year the Hou_se passed. 
,;~,~tes_ -­-- •--it fl'~m ..~pain•-_by a singlevoto, abili allowmg sp~,fi>a fuer~~;Rico statehood refer­.. <.·>endurri. The bill died in the  
Ricans 61:'e the  Senate, Rossello held a vote  
_____ _ _O'.S  . _____  .. atr ement_ anywai -­but lhe gamble -­~~fil:y,.did1i'tJ1ay.off._ StaJehood ,drew , , ,n(Si'.1; 46 pery:~nt of the' vote cotn • , -. ,receives. --­pared '1-vith 52 percent for  

thati,$10 billion in feder-"none of the above.' 
Kosovo 
continued from page 1 
long period of time," Loescher said. "It"s likely to be akin to the situation in Bosnia where troops am in already." 
Nor will bombing, or military force in general, provide the answer to the problems of Kosovo, according to Loescher. 
"It's important to recognize that this !bombing campaign I has a short-term utility," lie said. "What will be needed will be a political solution to the conflict." 
Still, bombing was the right thing to do as a first slep to stop the Serb advance, 



Bombings 
continued from page l 
Soviet-made SA-3 air defense missile. 
The official, spuaking on con­dition of anonymity, said there was no reported mechanical prohlem but an explosion was heard. NATO officials, without referring to the F-117A, said SA-3 missiles were fired Saturday. 
At the White House, Clinton met with his top national securi­ty aides and said he had talked with leaders of several NATO allies, including British Prime I\Iinister Tony Blair and French Premier Jacques Chirac. 
"All of them share our deter­mination to respond strongly to Mr. Milosevic's continuing cam­paign of inhumane violence against the Kosovar Albanian people," Clinton told reporters. "That is what we intend to do." Clinton said he strongly sup­ported NATO's decision to step up its air campaign in Kosovo. 
Without specifically mention­ing Saturday's loss of an F­117A. Clinton said he had warned from the start of "real risks" in NATO's confrontation in the sky over Yugoslavia. "But Loescher said. 
"Given the circumstances, airstrikes are about the only instrument feasible to try and deter the Serbs from continued attacks," he said. 
In the days since the bomb­ing campaign began, there have been reports of mas­sacres of ethnic Albanians in Kosovo, increased violence against Kosovo Liberation Army positions and attacks on Albanian leaders in Pristina. 
Pu'l"ttrnr, thousands of ethnic Albanians are said to be flee­ing Kosovo in fear of Serb vio­lrmce. 
Material from CNN and the New York Times was used in this report. 
the continued brutality and repression of the Serb forces further underscores the need for NATO to persevere," he said. 
As he stepped away from the podium, Clinton was asked whether the NATO bombings were a driving force behind the escalating atrocities in Kosovo. "Absolutely not," Clinton replied. 
The F-117A pilot, whose identity was not made public, 
was reported in "good shape" at Aviano Air Base in Italy after a daring rescue and recovery operation. 
Cohen, speaking on the Sunday TV talk shows, said the loss of the F-117A -one of the ­most sophisticated and secretive aircraft in the U.S, arsenal ­would not affect NATO's air campaign against the Serbian 

smaller 1980s-vintage F-117A government as the attacks fighter-bomber,
:~~~~;;;;;:;:;;~;;;~; r -A~~-y-.~~-i~t;;;;t~d-;;;........~ 
not only those dealing with command-and-control struc­
tures, ammunition -dumps, but
also start to go after the forces in the field as such," Cohen s~d. 
At NATO headquarters in Brussels, Belgium, British Aii:­Commodore David Wilby told 
L~~':ij 

.-'" • ,,. r,,,. 

Appalachia Seniinar 
..;~-­
~ 
,... 

NEED: LEADERS FOR APPALACHIA_ SEMINAR 
TASI<FORCE 
The Appalachia Seminar is currently seeking m,,mbers to joio the Appalachid Task Force for the 1999-200(1 school rear. TI1is b a lwo semester commitment. The Task Force consists of eight undergraduate students who form• leauersh,p team respon­sil>le for plannmg, implementing, and creating new opportunities w1thm the Appala chia Scmin~r-The Task Force is dedicated to expcnential learning as a means to en­hance hjghcr educati,,11 \Ve are in n~d of intcrestccl, enthusiastic, and committed 
persons to join us. 
If you have participated in the Appalachia Seminar, pleaSt' consider npplying to the Appalachia Task force. 
Al'PL!CATIONS: 
'.pplications ar,• due-Thursdav, Af>ril 1, 1999 
For further lnformatiort: 
Tom Kilroy, Student Co-rl,air, 271-1901 S:irah Kola~:t. Stude111 Co-cti::ur. 4·2.89Z Rathe! Tom:,;~ Morgau, Seminar ()irci.:tc,r. 1·529J 

reporters, ~we are now just beginning to transition" from focusing air attacks mainly in Yugoslavia's air defense net­work to targeting the Serb tanks and troops that are continuing to pound the Kosovar Albanians, 
The NATO airstrikes were launched last week after Serbs refused to enter into a peace agreement with the majority ethnic Albanians in Kosovo, the 
largest Serb province. Serbia is the main republic in Yugoslavia. U,S. and NATO officials pro­vided a few details of Saturday's air attacks, which included a further use of the Air Force's B­2 Spirit bomber, a stealth air­craft built with radar-evading technologies that are a leap ahead of those employed by the 

Work approx. 10 hrs. a week 
Must have knowledge of Macs & related Mac programs 
Prefer Sophomores 
\II\ ¦ l 

Please apply in person by 16 April 1999 in the Reilly Center, 346 O'Shag 

'11'Dp '11'D c-enti•ng c• nmpUS
:• I ~ I e,.;:, U • 
• t • ? 
: 

recrea ton users• ~ Now Forming . . . . . . . . . . • ~ 
••••• ••••• ••••• •••• • •• •• ••••••••••••• Applications and additional information 

are available at the RecSports Office, Rolfs Sports Recreation Center. For more info. call 1-5100 
Application Deadline • April 1, 1999 
:• www.nd.edu/f'lrecsport 

Monday, March 29, 1999 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
¦ v;,_ · NEWS BRIHS 
Experts take steps to avoid computer bug 
l'ITTSBUHGII 

Lo111p11t1·r PXfll'rts lwpn a W1!nknnd of warnings will prPVPll1 wc,rkPrs n•turni11g to tllPir ol'lin• INlllinals Monday l'rorn spn•ad­ing a IIPW virus that launrlH•s documPnls i11l11 ryllf'rspal'I! and dogs n-rnail s11rvcrs. SPVl!l'al h11siru1ss1!S ,md govnr11mm1Ls arountl tlw world havP rontadPd Carrwgit! Mt>llon Uniwrsi1y's ComJHtl1•r l•:nwq~Pn1·y H11sponse TP11111 !'or lwlp with tlw virus. said CEHT 11w11ag1•r KathPri1w l;itlwn. Slw said thny should ro11sidt>r iL a pol1rntial St'curity hrPitl'h Cl·'.HT first 1.-arnPcl of lh!! virus 1:riday art1Tllllo11 and its lll!'Illlwrs worknd thrnugh !.lw night to a11alyzp it, l;itlw11 said. ShP said Ifl(' 1'1111 rnad1 of' thP virus 11rnv IJf'rom,· r!Pm M1111day wlwn millions ol' pco·­plc• sil down 11t thPir compulPr wrminals for I111' lirsl tit111• silH't' Ml'lissa nmPrg<~d. 
U.S. allows Israel to stay in West Bank 
.J EH US/\1.EM 

111 a sharp diangP of mnphasis. a U.S. ofli­rial said today Lhat lsraol docs not have to rnsumP troop withdrawals in llrn Wnst Bank until tlw l'al1\stinians mnl!t their commit­111Pnts under the Wyn agreement. U.S. 1-: 111 bassy spok11sm an Larry Schwartz strPss1id that llw United States still expects lsnwl to act on other aspects of the U.S.-bro­hrPd Wyn BivPr accords. Until recnntly. Washington had blanrncl lsran! for the r.ur­rnnt deadlock in the pnacfl procnss, saying tlw l'al1!slinians havn gone a long way towards l'ulf'illing tlrnir obligations. Prime Ministrn· BP11jamin Netanyahu haltnd imple­111Pntalion ul' the accord in Dm:ember, accus­ing tlw l'alnstinians of !'ailing to contain anti­lsnwl viohmrn. 
Church asks Cuba to spare bomber 
SAN SALV /\DOR, El Salvador 

Tim Homan Catholic Church in El Salvador !ms ask,•d Cuba lo suspnnd thn death penalty ordPrnd against a Salvaduran man convicted of bombing tourist spots on tlw communist island. San Salvador's archbishop, Fernando Sal!l1z l.acalln. told rnporlers Sunday that he had s,rnt a lntlc1r to Cuban President Fidel Caslro last w,wk asking that the man's life be sparnd. Tlw church has not rnceived any rnspnnse, Sa!'nz said. Ernesto Cruz Leon, 27, was w11vict1id of terrorism last week and sen­ll~nnid to drntlh for a string of 1997 bombings in hntl'ls and a restaurant, which killed an Italian tourist and wounded 11 pimple. A ver­
dir l  is  JH'nding  in  tlrn  casu  of' another  
Salvadoran  man.  Otto  Hnrrn  Hodrigunz  
l.l1ir.-11a. 40.  


S&I' 500: Composite 1282.80 Volume:

9822.24 
-7.19 707,290,000 

VOLUME LEADERS 

SFIPMY !IOU ) CIMAI I SMIAI 11:JSI m:1,1. • uMi'!l'Tl-:A LlEl,I, ' .::4~o 37.se
.. 

Mft·P••: •1 f i'IJ;tf' ~SF''i' 1.0t -t,1q1; tiEl,1:2 ra:xn1. I !•MM >,. NX'l'L +lJ, Rfi •4.lH!> J7,Rf1 MIJ.'.S< 1 1W!, [f'I'" AOL ·,£4 •.8100 12!:l.61J f!-11'1::l. , 111<1• 1111'1'<." l..06 l. ~:•1'1', 116, 69 1JUAJ..C.'\1MM lNf' Q(:011 +l3, Jl !ll.1~5'J 111.''H, /\MAZi :-.i r·11M /1.Ml.N Rl'SO 139.0f o~Ac:·:.~ _,.,~I' !lfRC'I, t). '" 04 +0,fll25' i'J,!;i,O WM:tNf If l.~t-:AP.R1' WLA J. . .lR l.65Jfl. 67,69 ,,J.li'AiJ l"pf-!l•UTt.r l'PQ ',, 2500 lt .l5 
¦ YUGOSLAVIA 


AssocrATED PRESS 

BELGRADE 
Ordering up more firepower, NATO raced against time today to smash Serb military units and head off what it called "genocide" against Kosovo Albanians. 
Thousands of ethnic Albanian refugees. accusing Serbs of systematic brutality, 11ed into neighboring Albania and Macedonia. Officials in both countries pleaded for interna­tional help to prevent a humanitarian crisis, and Albania called for NATO ground troops to enter Kosovo -some­thing Ni\TO says it has no plans to do. 
Violence in Kosovo has escalated sharply since foreign observers left the province and NATO began its airstrikes against Yugoslavia, which is dominated by Serbs. NATO spokesman Jamie Shea said in Brussels that the airstrikes were no excuse for Serbs to slaughter Kosovo Albanians. 
"Genocide is starting," German Defense Minister Rudolf Scharping said in a television interview with station ZDF. 
For its part, Yugoslavia's government-controlled news media said Sunday that Serb security forces and civilians were under attack by Kosovo Albanians. 
Bratislava Morina, Serbia's commissioner for refugees, denied Serbs were behind the exodus and said ethnic Albanians were leaving because of the NATO attacks. Ethnic Albanians far outnumber Serbs in Kosovo, a province in Serbia, Yugoslavia's dominant republic. 
"There is no humanitarian catastrophe in Kosovo what­soever," she said on state-run Serbian television. "Those manipulations with the number of refugees, carried out by foreign agencies and media, are used to intensify (NATO) attacks on Yugoslavia." 
NATO promised to broaden attacks on Serb ground forces in Kosovo, despite the downing of a U.S. stealth bomber Saturday night. 
The fifth straight night of airstrikes began late Sunday, with about 50 warplanes taking off from the NATO air base in Aviano, Italy. The Pentagon said the attacking planes included six of the F-117A warplanes. 
The strikes would also include cruise missiles fired from 8-52 bombers, U.S. officials said. 
The Tanjug state news agency reported seven missiles hit Sunday night near Pristina, close enough to break win­dows at the central hotel that houses the Serbian Media Center. It also said two explosions shook the northern town ofSombor. 
"We have to recognize that we are now on the brink of a major humanitarian disaster ... the likes of which we have not seen in Europe since the closing clays of World War II," said NATO spokesman Jamie Shea. 
Shea said more than 500,000 ethnic Albanians, a quar­ter of the population of Kosovo, had been driven from their homes, 50,000 of them in just the past few days. 
"It seems as if [Yugoslav President Slobodanl Milosevic is trying to create a new situation on the ground, in his view irreversible," Shea said. 
¦ NORTHERN IRELAND 

Mitchell says IRA, others must disarm 
ASSOCIATED PRESS 
BELFAST, Northern Ireland 
The Irish Republican Army and other outlawed groups must disarm as pnrt of Northern Ireland's peace accord, said the former U.S. senator who lod negotiations on Sunday. The issue threatens to unravel the agree• 
ruent. 
George Mitchell said the accord achieved last April on Good Friday had been kept deliberately vague on this and othor points, otherwise key parties would have refused to accept it. 
''The agrnemeut reprosentod the most that could be achieved at that time," Mitchell fold British Broadcasting Corp. h)lovision. 
He said that if tho accord had been "more precise in any one of literally dozens of respects," either ol' the two key parties -the JHA's allies in Sinn Fein or the Ulster Unionists, who rep­resent much of Northern Ireland's British Protestant majority -would have rejected it. 

The cornerstone of the agreoment, a Protestant-Catholic government for Northern freland,.~a~ been.delayedf9r tnonths. ~nd·t:,supppS(id to. be formed by Good FridaythiSweek. 
Ulster Unionist leader David Trimble, elected to lead the govern· ment, says Sinn Fein cannot take part unless the IHA starts to disarm beforehand. a condition only hinted at in the agreement, which specifies that the .IRA should complete disarm• ingby May 2000. ·.• . 
:S\nh Pein say,s itrn'usl :receive two positions hi a 12-member govern­ment regardless of the IRA's appar­ent determination to retain its weapons, 
British Prime Minister Tony Blair and Irish Prime Minister Berti(:\ Ahern are to fly to Belfast on Monday to attempt to reconcile the Ulster Unionist and Sinn Fein-lHA readings of the agreement. 
Mitchell -who in April 1998 directed negotiations alongside Ahern and Blair -played down tht} suggostion that he should return, too. 
"If there was some way that it was absolutely essenthtl that I could play some role, obviously I would novflr say no," he said. 
Although he didn't know when the IRA and ot.her outlawed groups would start disarming, Mitchell said, "it must occur. That's nn essential olement in this agrf.lfltnent'' 
Several pro-British paramilitary groups are also supposed to disarm by May 2000. and only one has begun to do so. 

page6 
The Observer• INTERNATIONAL NEWS Monday, March 29, 1999 
¦ PARAGUAY 
quake hits 

Cubas resigns over turmoil 
Associated Press shouted from the steps of the "We aro indignant. This 
H-i1t1.alayan foothills
downtown cathedral where a president is shameful1" said ASUNCION round-the-clock vigil was l,'rancisco Schmeda, cloaked 

describ"d as powerful enough President Raul Cubas being held. in the red, white and blue 
to be "severe and damaging." resigned Sunday. ending llundreds of people joined Paraguayan nag as he joined 
NUWDELIII It lasted close to 40 seconds. nearly a week of political tur­demonstrators for a Palm the throng at tlrn peaceful 
A sever() •,e.trthqtiake struck The epicenter was in a moil that tested the South Sunday Mass in memory of rally. 
in. India's Himttla.yan foothills remote area of the Kumaon American nation's 10-year­four men killed in rioting Cubas won onu of 
early)fomJay, 51p~kiug.a, broad. hills in the state of Uttar old democracv. earlv Saturdav that invo.lved Paraguay's cleaner elections 
swathe ofnorthern Indi<J,, offi­Pradesh, about 75 miles east of' Cubas said ·he lamented thP supporters and critics of with more than 50 percent of 
cfalsMid,·· the city of Dchra Dun and 185 fighting in the streets that Ind Cubas, as well as riot police. the vote last May. 
Th~.·.STAR'te1¢visi0li•lletwork miles from New Delhi. tu thr start or his impnach• As th0 names of tho. victims Sincn tlmn, public dissatis• 
report~d atl1a.§t ~i.nA··people The quake was felt in major mcnt trial last week on were read during the service, faction over his rule has ccn· 
wete.J<illed,).tfltl Qlo figure wu,s n1wth(,rn cities of Varanasi, charges of abuse or pow11r. people applauded anct a tered on his inabilitv to fulfill 
likely to rlso a.s reports comoin Kanpur and Chandigarh. Ifo also askrd for thn f'orgiW\· priest declared, "The blood promises to end cnd.emic cor­
from temt)t¢ ytil~ges. About 25 minutes after the ness of all Paraguayans who spilled hore cries out for jus­ruptio11. ease unemployment 
lndia:s 1>ei.sq1glogical depari­quake, a series of af'torshocks voted for him. tice!" and solve thfl country's eco­
mentmeasured·ths quake at a rumbled across the northern Later. before a packed Many said they wore angry. nomic problems. 
Iniigriitt1de ttf6.8, which it landscape. chamber of legislators at Urn congressional building. Senate leader Luis Gonzalez ·:1,
Macchi was sworn in as 
·J!tb· 1• -tl41 u PrograminScience. 
346 O'Shaughnessy
Paraguay's new prnsident. ·'" ..,.._____11111111_____ Technolugy, anu Values Univer:,:.ity ot Nt)tre Dnme -----------•"The Paraguayan people 
(219) 631-5015 Notre Dmne, IN 46556 
have triumphed," Gonzalez proclaimed, after donning the red, white and blue presiden­
TIDRTYIMPORTANT QUESTIONS ABOUT SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY,AND VALUES
tial sash. "The violence has ended 
I. ls there really such a thing as te...:hnological progress or is it just a nic.:e name fof 16. How is :,.cientific resL!:arch fundeJ in Uiffcrcm cuuutrie~"! Who shoukl tlcc:idc wh;Uevcr happens? research priorities'.'
and so has the fear and per­
secution." said Macchi. who 
2. How can we be sure what scienti!lttS say is true"! ls there a sure way to prove 17. Are the minute entities hypnthcsi.r.eU by physicists reul or are they ~imply the statements of s,cience'! cnnsu"\lcts that ·•sa-ve the phenomena.'' or fit the observatiun:f!
had pushed for Cubas' ouster. 
3. Does computerization pose auy serious moral problems·! 18. Docs observatiun dcpcnti on theon-·:
"Let this be clear that impunity has ended." 
-4. Hl1w have Ehe technotngir..:a! developments ot' modem society affected social f 9. Is ~c.:ienee vafue-neufr0,1f"! s.tnacture'?
Afterward. one of the shoot­

20. Is technology vulue•nautral? 
5. How tlo our definitions of what is sick and whut is nonnul retlect social

ing victims from last week's 
conventions·., 21. Do non-humans have righl[s~ \\.'hat rights'.'
violence was carried over the 
ti. How far has the course of western science been &he amassing of facts; how far 22. How Jo medkal systems and healing professions t..liffer in various cultures
heads of legislators amid 
has it been a change in ways of viewing the world'! aroumJ the world·! 
resounding cheers. 
7 _ Are there right answers in technotogic.aJ controversies"! 23. Can human behavior (and humanness) be 1·educed to biochen1ical ur genetical 
explanations"!
An hour before Gonzalez 

8. Are underdeveloped countries destined to follow the snme steps of industrial
Macchi was sworn in, Cubas 
development that have been followed by the U.S. and Western Eun>pe'! 24. Why diJ religious people become upset with the: findings of Galileo .and 
Darwin'!
stood at the government 
9. How are changes in technology reflected in novels. poems. and the visual arts'?
·palace and announced his 
25. Can there be more than one satisfactory explanation for any given set of 
10. How do patient's conceptions of illness tlH'fer from doctor's C'.mcept;ons. of observations.?
was stepping down. 
disease'! 

26. ls mathematics the language of science·! fs it the only language of science'! Is J L Do machines serve us or do we serve machines"! it the language of all science'?
"I have just finished sign· 

ing my resignation," he said, 
12. How did industrialization change the way ordinary people lived and worked? 27. Does the vast flood of technical publications, and 1he accompanying special­
flanked by his wife and with a 
ization it demands, pose a problem? 
13. How are we to respond to the possibility of human clont:ng·!

dozen aides standing behind 
28. In technological comroversies. is it possible lO separate moral issues from
him. 
J4_ What sons of elhicaJ problems will ND graduates likely encounter as they enter scientifically sotuble technical issues'! technologically-intensive careers·!
Cubas also called on the 

29. How do we solve the questions of distributive justice that arise with new 
15. Are science and Christianity antithetical. unconnected, or co-evolved and co­technologies? evolving'!
governing Colorado Party to 
maintain unity and said he 
30. Can a technological society be a democratic society'! 
regretted "unfounded attacks 
against me and my family." 
EXPLORE THESE QUESTIONS BY BECOMING AN STV CONCENTRATE. 
Cubas, who took office in 

FOR INFORMATION INQUIRE AT 346 o~sHAUGHNESSY OR AT www.nd.edu/-reilly/.
August, was accused by law­makers of fostering a climate of violence that culminated in the assassination Tuesday of Vice President Luis Argana. 
There were no suspects in the slaying, which prompted allegations of plotting from across Paraguay's polilical spectrum and accelerated attempts to impP-ach Cubas. 
Cubas' resignation capped a nearly week!ong crisis that plunged Paraguay into politi­cal turmoil. severely testing its Oedgling democracy. 
More lhan 50.000 people crowded the square in front or the congressional building to celebrate Cubas· rnsigna­tion, waving Paraguayan nags and setting fireworks burst· ing in the nighttinw sky. 
Cars jammed the streets, honking horns, while peoplii wept, cheered and hugged each other. Firefighters poured streams of water over the sweaty, ,ioyuus crowds. 
Gonzalez Macchi said that after being sworn in he would return former general Lino Oviedo to prison. 
Gonzalez Macchi had accused Cubas of illegally freeing Oviedo, the reputed strongman behind Cubas' short-lived presidency. The ex-general had been serving a 10-ycar sentence for 
And on-campus student housing is available.
attempting to oust then­
President Juan Carlos 

You'll enjoy summer activities even more, knowing that you're also getting ahead in your studies. *HOLY
Wasmosy in 1996. 

Write or call Holy Cross College today. Applications for Summer Sessions I and 11, as well as for CROSS
Earlier Sunday, hundreds of 
the 1999 Fall Semester, are now being accepted. 
troops with rifles withdrew 
COLLEGE 
from outside parliament, 
leaving uniformed police in 

Session I -May I 7 to June 2 4 Office ofAdmissions 
P.O. Box 308 • Notre Dame, IN 46556
their place to guard the broad 
Session II -June 28 to August 5 
(219) 239-8400. ext. 22 • Fax (219) 233-7 .27
plaza, the focal point of vio­
e-mail: vduke@hcc-nd.edu 
lent clashes. 
"Cubas resign!·· people 


Monday, March 29, 1999 The Observer. NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
---•-·----­

Military prepares for possible search and rescue missions 
WASIIINGTON 

Military scarr.h and rnscuc 1111ils. lik1\ t.lm onn that saved an 1; -117 stnaltli l'ightor pilot doWlll\d in Yugoslavia, are trained Lo drop into any rough 
environmont  - ocean,  moun­ 
tain, dnsort or jungle  - and in  
complr.tc secrer.y.  

"Our mission is to get in and get out without ever seeing the eunmy," said Master Sgt. Brian Stephens, director of training for military "pararnscuers" at Kirtland Air Force Base in New Mexico. "We've got pistols and ril1es, but hopefully wo never have to USP them." 
Hurlburt Field, Fla., head­

Ti111e is running ou, secure housins for,S_ week, May 8 •: 
Lase day 10 sian co} is April i 
To si9n up for Senior co111e 10 1he ca1erin9r\ located lower lewe North Dinina H,a 
EL VIA CRUCIS 
(The Way of the Cross) 
IN CHICAGO'S PILSEN NEIGHBORHOOD 
"The heart of Chicago's Latino Community" 
GOOD FRIDAY, APRIL 2 
Join Campus Ministry and the Center for Social Concerns as we celebrate with over 2000 faithful the traditional Latino reenactment of our Lord's Passion and Death In the streets of Pilsen, followed by reflection and a slmple lunch. 
Please sign up at the Library Campus Ministry office by Wednesday, March 31. · Seats are limited! 


Cost Is $5 (Includes transportation and slmple lunch) 
-

CENT.ER F'OR 
0MPUS

SOCIAL 
CONCERNS 
MINISTRY 

quarters of the Air Force Special Pave Low gunners wnrn wound­Operations Command, provides ed. helicopter crews that 11y risky Thn Air Force's Pave Lows and rescue missions in peacetime smaller Mll-hOG Pave llawk and war. The base sent an addi­helicopters am nquippod with tion al 150 personnel to special navigation gear. radar European bases last week to and other electronics to help operate as search and rescue them slip behind orrnmy !inns units for thn ongoing NATO without bning dntectnd. They 
airstrikcs  often lly at trrni•  
against the Serb military, "It gets a lit­ 'OUR MISSION IS TO  t.op lnvol under the COV()I' or darkness.  
tle tricky when  GET IN AND GET OUT  Bnsidns sfiarch  
you're in a combat silua- WITHOUT EVER SEEING THE  and tlrnir  rescue, missions  
tion,"  Joan  ENEMY.'  also  includn  
Prichard,  a  ins(l rti ng  and  
spokeswoman  withdrawing  
at  Hurlburt,  MIIS11iH SG'1'. BRIAN Sn-P!IHNS  special  /'orcns  
said Sunday.  /JIRECTOR OF TIV\INING  troops  for  

"Yon're insert­ing people into hostile territory." 
As a fifth straight night of NATO bombing got under way Sunday, the Pentagon and NATO were officially mum on what brought down the Air Force F­117A stealth fighter-bomber near the Yugoslav capital of Belgrade on Saturday. A senior defense official, however, said there are strong indications it was hit by a surface-to-air mis­sile. 
NATO and Pfintagon officials also refused to reveal details about the six-hour nighttime rescue or the name of the American pilot, although he was reported in good condition. 
Pilot search and rescue mis­sions often involve several branches of the military working in concert. Air Force or Marine helicopters could go in for tho pilot pickup, for example, but only after fighter jets ensured the skies were safe from enemy aircraft. 
Meanwhile, a sort of radio silence is maintained by. Pentagon and NATO comman­ders, who fear public conlirma· tion of a shootdown or crash of a pilot could endanger his life. 
His discovery becomes a race against the clock and the enemy. 
"We don't want to jeopardize that operation or any futurn operation by talking about how we do it," said Air Force Lt. Col. Jay DeFrank, a spokesman for the Air Force. 
A typical rescue by crews from Hurlburt could involve MH-53J Pave Low helicopters, which in September 1995 flew into Serb­held Bosnia to rescue a pair of French fliers. The choppers came under heavy llre and two 

hnhind-nnomy­
lincs maneuvers. 
Tim Air Force has both typos of' helicopters at Brindisi, Italy, the main staging point for search and rosctm missions ovnr Yugoslavia. The choppnrs am flown by crews from bases in Britain and Japan in addition to Hurlburt's 16th Special Operations Wing. 
In one of tlrn most dramatic 
U.S. military rescues in thn region, Marino Corps lwlicoptnrs picked up Air Force pilot Scott ()'Grady after his F-16 Fighting Falcon was shot down in 11)95 by a Snrb anti·aircraf't missiln during the Bosnian War. 
O'Grady, then 29, had hidden in a pine forest for six days, hoarding precious radio battnr· ies so he could omit a weak "Brasher 52" call sign to his res­cuers. fin drank rain watnr and resorted to eating ants and grass, lessons lnarned during survival training that all pilots must go through. Ile said Im had paid "special attention" and it paid off. 
In ()'Grady's casn, his radio signal was picked up just afttlr 2 
a.m. by a pilot from his own squadron, who like him, had been 11ying a U.N. monitoring mission. Ile was picknd up about four hours later after an AWACS surveillanct, plane pinpointed his location. 
A pair of Marino Corps Cll-53 "Sea Stallion" assault lrnlicopters flew to him with some 40 air­craft in support. One helicoptnr landed and 20 Marines jumpnd out to secure the arna. 
O'Grady camn running out of the forest, wearing a !light jack­et and hnlmet and carrying his pistol. 'Tm OK. Get me out of hem," he said. 

Ordination: 
What Would it Mean for Women. 
Join us /or a conversation about ordination Ii-om a woman;;. perspective. Guests include: Jr. Frances 0-'Connor, CS.C .Or. Beth Newman., andorda,'nedwomen from the area. 
Tuesday, March 30th at 7pm Stapleton Lounge, SMC 
Sponsored by Peacemakers 
VIEWPOINT 
page 8 os~fRvER -----------------Monday, March 29, 1999 
' 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, II\ 46556 (219) 631-7471 


1999-2000 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Michelle Krup, MANAGING EmTOR Busl~ESS MANAGER 
M. Shannon Ry,rn Dave Rogcro 
AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
Laur., Perelle 

NEWS EorfOR ............................... Tim Logan ADVERTISING MANAGER.......................Bryan Lutz VJFWPOINi EDlTOR .............CoUeen Gaughen AD DESIGN 1v1.A.r.;AGEP: ............... Kcnncrh Kc:1.rney SPORTS EDITOR ....................... Brian Ke~sler SYSTEMS MANAGER...................Michael Revers SCENE EDITOR..... .... Michncl Vanegas CONTROLLER..... . ........ Timothy l.ane SAINT MAltv's EDITOR .......Collecn McCarthy GRArH1c:s EorroR .............................. Joc :vlucllcr Pl!OTO EDITOR ...Kevin Dalum \VEB ADMINISTRAl'0R.......................Erik Ku.,hto 

The Oh.\..:rvcr i~ chc inJ..:pc11d~nr nl·wsp•tpcr pt1blish(:d by the .~mlk11ts of !he L'.11iven11y of >lntre [hnw ,lu L.1, .mt.1 Saim M,uy's College. It doe!l not nece.,~,irily rdlect the policies o(the adminismition of either insdnuion. Th,· new., is rerorr,-J ,l\ ;1ccuratefy ,rnd ohiecrivcly as pussibk. Umig11L-d cditori,il1 rcpn:sem rile opinion dthe rnajocit~· of the Editor-in•Ch1ef, Managing f.dicor, Assistant Managing Editor a11d department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns pre.sent ihe vinvs of rhe ;Hnhor!'. .md noi nca,sarily those ofThe Obr.erver. Vi<.-wpo11u sp.1cc is .1\':1ibhlc to all members of che Notre D.1rne/Saint M,1ry's community ;md co ;:ii] readers. The frc-e expression of varying opinions through km:n 1s encouraged 
Contacting The ObserYer 

Ediroc-in-Chief  63 I -4542  Office Manager/General Information  631-7471  
Managing E(iitor/Assiscant ME  6.l 1-454 I  Business Office  631-531.l  
News  631-5323  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
Viewpoint  6.) J.5303  Sy:-,tems/Wc:b .,\dministrator  631-88.19  
Sports Scene  631-4543 6, 1-4540  fax Ad E-Mail  631-6927 observer0ldarwin.cc.nd.ed11  
Saint Mary's  631-4324  News E-Mail  observcr.obsnews.l@nd.edu  
Photo  631-8707  Viewpoinr E-Mail  obscr,,..t!r.viewp~)inc. l@nd.cJu  


A Breen-Phillips Legend is Remembered 
"I really enjoyed the girls" were the first words from Betty Reeder when l asked for impressions from her 27 years as a hall monitor. "I hated to retire," was the next thing she said. 
After 131 years as an all-male bastion (although women had been in the sum­mer programs and grad school for a long time), Notre Dame went co-ed in 1972. One of the many logistical chal­lenges of co-education was developing a residential life for the women students. Badin and Walsh were selected as the first two women's dorms. Security direc­tor Art Pears was given the task of pro­viding a late-night security presence. 
At that time, Betty Reeder was a stay­at-home mom who had raised three children with her husband Max, a leg­endary South Bend police officer. After their kids went away to college, Max suggested that Betty might want to look for a job at '.\Jotre Dame. When her hus­band later opined that security work might be too tough, Betty became deter­mined to "accept the challenge." Chief Pears warned her that she would be away f'rom her husband at night. Betty jokingly replied "That's good, we won't be able to fight." 
Betty was hired as the first hall moni­tor and assigned to Badin. Her rector was Kathleen Cekanski. Betty immedi­ately fell in love with her job. She liked being around the girls, as combination security officer and den mother. Betty's sister, Bernice Ricker, came to work soon after, beginning as a relief moni­tor. Still working for NDSP. Bernice praised her sister for her dedication. 
After a vear in Badin, Cekanski moved to Breen-Phillips to re-gender that dorm. (Each year, I wonder who's living in room 128 Breen Phillips. where I spent my freshman year.) Cekanski received permission to bring Betty along with her. After graduating from law school, Kathy (now Cekanski-FarrandJ went on to an impressive legal career, including service as City Council Attorney. Both women stay in touch and still speak fondly of their pairing. dents presented Betty with a corsage 
Betty can't remember many problem and plaque. Dorm president Jane times in the dorms. She said that boys Barber called Betty a "legend in the would occasionally dawdle too long after hall." parietal hours, but would usually leave In Betty's 1984 personnel evaluation, 
· without incident when she would gently Sister Nadine wrote, "I can't praise 
speak to them. Betty enough for her constant support." 
Betty recalled two potentially serious On another evaluation, a rector wrote, incidents. In one, a fire erupted from a "Don't take her away from me or I'll high intensity. light. Betty sensed the quit!" Other quotes included smoke. searched out the ~----:.... "incredibly friendly" and origin and alerted the "some of the women 
Notre Dame Fire Department before anv residents • became aware. 
On another ­occa­sion. Betty / dis­cov­

/ use her as a coun­selor." Although many differ­~ .....--~::---~ • ent rectors 131? evaluated :B~:S Bettychai~ over the 
«> .......____ • 


years, their \ praise 
\ was uni­ver­
ered a  1--~---r-..-11-.._-,.-_......1__-r-_~  sally  
man  posi­ 
who  tive.  
had  In  
broken  1994  
into the  _ ~  __).'  she  

basement '\i__..__i'-,r,a~rr:iil!~~~--.---,::1flAJ4 ~received a 
laundry room and was hiding in a clos­et. When she cha!­lenged him (using only her wits, with no weapons or communication equipment) the man refused to respond. Betty called the lone student out of the laundry room, being careful not to panic her, and asked her to call security. Following that incident, the hall monitors were provid­cd walkie talkies. 
An Observer article of Marr:h 10, 1981, featured a photo of Betty with a story about her eight years of service to BP. Betty was the featurc~d guest at the hall brunch, which commemorated 10 years of co-education at l\D. Dorm resi-

I perfect evaluation, with the quotes "goes beyond the call of duty" and "keep her in BP," followed 
by nine exclamation points. More years than not, Betty had perfect atten­dance. 
Despite performing the same job for 27 years, Betty never seemed to lose her freshness and enthusiasm for the work and for the women in her dorm. She has often babysat over the years for formPr hall residents returning to campus with their children. She is proud to be remembered in cards and letters from "my girls." 
Betty said she hated to retire and would not have done so except for the health problems suffered by her hus­band of more than 50 years. Betty stays home to take care of Max, who was the senior member of the South Bend Police Department with 43 years of service, when heart problems forced him off the job. 
Last year, the women of Breen-Phillips Hall created a plaque in Betty's honor, which is mounted just inside the door near the desk she occupied for more than 25 years. The inscription reads "This will always be Betty's Chair, in gratitude to Betty Reeder, Security Monitor for 25 vears of faithful, dedicat­ed, and loving service to Breen-Phillips Hall." At Christmastime, rector Becca Davidson presented Betty with a replica plaque for her home. 
BP•s assistant rector, Heather McShain, may have the best perspective on Betty. Prior to her two years as AR, Heather was a four-year resident of the hall. Heather calls Betty "an amazing person." Heather is certain Betty "has no idea the impact she has had on thc1 lives of the girls." According to McShain, "Betty knew every girl's name and what was going on in thc~ir lives, including which girls had to be awakened in the morning so they would not miss nxams." 
Heather relates that even the first year students who never met Betty still refer to the hall monitor's chair as "Betty's Chair." 
Betty and Max Reeder are an uplifting example of ordinary people who made extraordinary efforts to better the lives of others. 
Cappy Gagnon, '66, is coordinator of stadium personnel and supervises the work ofstudent employees in the Security/Police Department. llis appears euery other Monday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
MAN, l</HATA B.R,I r:oN'r~ lll/?J.IXT.1 ISN'TIT 8./J., I'M AN'Yl!JN£-H/iRl;.Yfl.
50NtiR­
AMAZIN6 aRltTA 1PIIWT70.MA!<e PIINN/,'1/G :r'A50N lr1.XIS / A~IMPR£SSICJN. CANPO?' AT'THe~/J/3I T,4K£N!£R!aB-Y.'
,= I 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
Rel.AX, IT,!;..:xJ5TA RXJJB4U_ 8ANQUl;T. t.oa<, THERES SOM:G/hSFfia?A17Ht3 
"Jl:.4M-~j,ii/
I 

, Happy is he to whom, 
in the maturer season of life, there remains one tried and constant friend.' 
-Anna Lititia Barbauld 

1""_1i..""'_____..""'_____,_..,..,.iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiill_____lliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii_..--iiii_~------•iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiijiiiiiiiiii•~-------•-.iai-iiiP~-;;.w.=.-._..__, :::;;;;;~.;;--;;;=::;;;;;;;...~.._---.. 
VIEWPOINT 

_________________________ page 9
Monday, March 29, 1999 
¦ LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
We Are Pax Christi Notre Dame 
Tomorrow, llw Sllllions of' Llw Cross will bn walked on this 
ram pus. This rilllal is cnnlral to ( :liris!.ian tradition and still a 
pow,.rful n•mindf'r of' Lill' violPnn: inlli1:Wd 011 .hisus and on his 
hody today. . 
Wt! rnllncl on what it nrnnns that Lhis man, who is tlw vnry Iii'«' or Cod. is mm:knd, Lorlurod and nxnculnd. We rnmember lhal lw rPfusnd Lo nrnPt tlw violencn or his altacknrs with vio­ln11rn or his own. lndoPd. tlw rncl<imption won by Christ came through sulforing, not through punishing. It came through the Cross. not through llw sword. It came through turning Lhe otlwr ,·lwck, nol an oyn for an oy1.). Such a way or life scHms foolish, PVCII dangnrous. Bui. Lim Stations of' tho Cross them­s1-lv1!s nm1ind us how d1u1g,~ro11s disdplnship really is. 
\Vlwn tlw NolrP Dame campus walks with .lesus tomorrow. WI' can ask oursl'lvns a few {flluslions. Do wn take up the Cross, PVPn in II world that so ofwn says to put up our guard, or our gun, or our missih!'? Do we pul our Catholic education at the s11rvicn ol' Christ's mission, r.vnn in a culturn Lhat counsels stratPgic sdf-inlnrr.st? Do wn turn Lim olher cheek in daily life as a morn rourag(•ous. morn rnsponsive, and more practical approach than rntaliation'! Each question is really the same: do WP ignorp thn uncomfortable toachings of Christ and soo in him only what we want, or do WP Lakn the nonviolent Jesus snrious­ly ancl shap(1 our liws by his'! 
WP lwliPVP thill tlw call to shape our lives as followers of Christ can bring joy, lifo and passion. /\nd that is why wn have l'('SlartPd al Not1'P Dame an organization thal is rich in Catholic tradition am! was oncf\ a vital part of this campus. That organi­zation is Pax Christi, and wr. am working to resurrect it at Notn· llamP. Wt• i11vit«1 you Lo bn parl of this dforl tomorrow, hnfon· tlw campus Stations of th(i Cross. Wn will 1rnH1l al 4:15 
p.111. in tlw C11nh!I' l'or Social Concerns and will Im joined by a spncial p11rso11, a piorn111r or Pax Christi in Urn church. Ilis name is Tom Cornnll, and lw has worhd for 40 ynars in the Catholic WorkPI' movPmPnl. I le was a friend of' Dorothy Day, 1iml has sp1mt his lifo working for tho poor and for pnace. We invite you to come !war him, hear about us. and stav for dimrnr. You should lw s!wing so1111i purple signs advo,:tising this evenl. 
Pax Cllrisli is a group !'or thosn who ta.kn their faith seriously, wlto takl' fll'ilCt' seriously. In !'act, tlw Catholic pPuce tradition is sonwlhing of' a 1wgfoclt1d gi•m these days. Some may be aware that tlw Parly church rnvPrnd nonviol,mt rnsistancn to evil over arnwd struggh). Som11 may nvnn know of heroes, such as Archbishop Oscar Honmro of El Salvador, who gave thn mar­tyrs' offering of peace: Lhnir own blood. Bul many may not know Lim strong terms on which church teaching endorses pPacn. To bn sure, the church has a just war tradition, yet it also holds as orthodox a total commitm(mt to nonviolence. 1.-urt.lwr. just war tnaching has long since been run amok by the 11wtlwcls ancl fll(HHtcns of' modern war machitrns. Now more than PVN. f'ollowtH"S of Jesus arc called to be people of peace. 
/\nd so Pax Christi is a group lhal offers cxciling ways to cre­aliv11Jy pursue no11viole11ce. Wn talk togntlmr, we pray together, WI! witnnss togetlrnr. Wn push ourselves to achieve the inner discipline thal ran hit the pnacn ol' Christ sustain us in our per­sonal liv«is. Wn roach oul to others in works of mercy-hnlping to fPt!cl, clothe and comfort thn poor-as a way to seek peace. We join with Pax Christi USA Lo challenge tlrn policies or a nation that mistak!!s violtmce and threats of it as peace. This logic of tl)tTor is senn in Lhc N/\TO attacks in Urn Kosovo conflict, whern weapons of' chiath (such as B-2 bombers at $2 billion apiecn) onlv nntr«•nch division and bring suffering. /\nd Pax Christi Notn• Danw asks sonw important questions of tho university and ils l!OH: program. Is Notrn Dami~ l'ollowing Jnsus, who asks us lo takP up tlw Cross; or 0IJr country, which asks us to take up the sword'! Furtlrnr, aw any studnnts led to HOTC be1·.ausn u11ivorsity rnsolll'('HS -despite a two hilliun dollar total nndownwnl -do not olfor adequate financial aid? 
Tomorrow. whnn the Stations of Lhe Cross wind through cam­pus, considPI' the Jesus who conquered violence and dnalh with 1rnacn and life. /\ml wn invitn you, hef'orn that sacred ritual, to consid(\r us, Pax Christi. Come lmtrn about us, eat with us, hear from Tom Cornell wilh us. Together, we can face the challenge -tlrn hold and daring challenge -that comes to us as follow­('l"S in the way of Christ. 
Liz Moriarty Brendan Egan Rachel Soltis Michael Griffin Sheila McCarthy , Megan Sheehan Erin Rockenhaus 
A.J. Boyd 
Daniella Zsupan Fr. Michael Baxter, C.S.C. 
March 29, 1999 
¦ LETTER TO THE EDITOR 


Unjust Termination of Architecture Professor Devalues Quality ofRome Program and Violates Notre Dame Family 
I am writing Lo express my dismay with the recent termination of professor Jeffrey Blanchard's employment and the circumstances associated with the rnstructuring of the Home Program. 
To my knowledge, Lhere have been three rea­sons cited l'or professor Blanchard's dismissal: 1) Im has been derelict in his responsibilities to Notni Dame; 2) an excessive studen1/teacher ralio exists at the Home program that the School of Architecture can no longer afford to maintain; and 3) professor Blanchard's tnaching methods are inconsistnnt with the new academic and cur­ricular goals of the program. In the following paragraphs, I will put forth my concerns for each one of these items, as well as explain why I am so disturbed by the manner in which this action was taknn and the conditions surrounding the restructuring of the Rome Program. 
The suggestion that professor Blanchard has been derelict in his duties is simply offensive. His guidance of and dedication to the Home Studios Program throughout his 21-ycar earner have been essential to the program's success. In addi­tion to his administrative assistance in Rome, his leadership of the many field trips taken through­out the year is vital to their success. Professor Blanchard possesses a knowledge of Italian social mechanics that, I dare say, goes beyond that of many native Italians. This gift allows him to open to his students unique experiences and insights that am simply not available to anyone rise. 
Bnyond professor Blanchard's extraordinary administrative and cultural skills, he is clearly one of Lhe foremost authorities on Italian archi­tncture and urbanism in the world. In addition to his considerable knowledge of these subjects, profossor Blanchard has an ability to relate to students and to make his subjects come alive like no othnr teacher under whom I have studied. During my year in Home, all three of the guest design professors attended professor Blanchard's classns on a regular basis, not as colleagues, but as students. This last point leads to my next concern. 
To replace professor Blanchard with visiting professors who know relatively little about Rome and Italy and who usually do not even speak Italian is irresponsible. Without even a returning director (I am aware of professor Stamper's return to the U.S.), this action has, in the period of a few months, cut more than 30 years of roots thal the Home Program has established in Italy and loft it with no ability to regain a foothold. While I am aware of the efforts currently under­way to redirect the curriculum, I am certain that Lhis action can be exercised in a far less destruc­tive way. Professor Blanchard's classes are so valuable to imparting architectural knowledge that I am sure there is a way his history classes could bn integrated into the design and theory classes -they already link history, design, theo­ry, politics and culture. 
Along with deconstructing one of the finest study-abroad programs at Notrn Dame. and in fact the international architectural community, the restructuring of the Homn Program will nndangcr thn academic accroditation ol' thn School or Architncture. Five years ago, during thn periodical accrnditation rnviow of th(1 School. while I was in Rome. the Home Program was rngardcd as tlw fhrnst portion of a quality archi­tectural education. The most rncent accredita­tion review, just three weeks bnli>re profossor Blanchard was terminattid, solicited similarly positive rnsponsns. To fire professor Blanchard at this point is akin to an NFL football team fir­ing their coach just after winning the Supnr Bowl. 
At a university that boasts a billion-dollar endowment, a multi-million-dollar lnlevision contract and a tuition approaching $20,000 a year, budget problems simply cannot be a ma­son for staff cuts. If there is indend a budget con­cern, the amount allocated Lo the School must be roviewed and the spending policins must be invnstigated. The quality or the School of Architecture, or any academic institution, will not be improved (or oven maintainnd) by lower­ing the number of educators pnr students, and it will certainly never achieve any level of great­ness by firing its linest professors. 
Pnrhaps the mosl disturbing charactnristic of these events is the manner in which they wnre executed. It has comn to my attention thal sever­al of thn faculty members were made awarn of professor Blanchard's termination ancl tlrn rnstructuring of the Home Program by students after a public announcenwnl had been made. llow, in a reputable acadmnic institution, can decisions be made regarding the cujrricula with­out nven the awarennss of the tenured faculty'? 
The quintessential characteristic of Notre Dame is the Notrn Darno family. This conc(ipt embodins openness, caring. trust and civility between its members, even in the face of ideo­logical differences. Tho recent evnnts orchestrat­ed by the administration at the School of Architecture have entirely disavownd the Notre Dame family, and in fact, seem to lrn an exlircisn in McCarthyism -distressnd, animosity and secrecy. 
I will end this letter with a dirnct plea to Dr. Westfall: 
Dr. Westfall. plnase reconsider your termina­tion ol' prof"essor .Jnffrey Blanchard's contract and the manner in which you are onacting changes in the School of Architecture. If" you find yourself unable to act in a constructive, respon­sible manner -in a manner that is consif.Lenl with thn values held by the Notre Dame family and all its memb(irs -please step down as chairman of tho School of Arr.hitncture. 
Ted Musielewicz 
Notre Dame School ofArchirccrnrc CLm of 19% Mar~h 26, I 999 

~r~--0----·-----=~----~--.--~-----------~-~-w-w____ 
O
THE 

page 10 ----------------------BSERVER ----------------Monday, March 29, 1999 
Se ne 
'200 Cigarettes' too many 
"200 Cigarettes" 
Director: Risa Bramon Garcia Starring Ben Affleck, Casey Affleck, Christina Ricci, David Chapelle, Martha 
Plimpton and Janeane Garofalo 

(Out of five shamrocks) By CASEY McCLUSKEY 
Scene Movie Critic 
IL's New Year's Eve in New York City in 1981. "Do you know where your date is?" 
This is the question that director Risa Bramon Garcia attempts to answer in her fllm, "200 Cigarettes." Garcia ·s camera follows different groups of 20-somethings as they deal with their own relationships or lack thereof, and their own individual neu­rosis that seem especially heightem;d on New Year's Eve. 
Monica, played by Martha Plimpton ("The Goonies," "Parenthood," "Beautiful Girls"), is throwing a New Year's Eve party and is sure that no one will show up except her old boyfriends with their new girlfriends. While she waits around all· night, her guests pass time in bars because it is too early to show up to the party. 
Kevin, played by Paul Rudd ("Clueless" and "Object of My Affection!'), is being dragged to the party by his best friend Lucy, played by Courtney Love ("Tapeheads" and "The People vs. Larry Flint"). She wants to show him a good time because he 
(Out offive shamrocks) 
By V. VAN BUREN GILES 
Scene Movie Critic 
"8mm" is the most recent project from "Hatman and Hobin" director .Joni Schumachf!I'. 
Nicolas Cage ("Leaving Las Vegas," "Moonstruck," "Raising Arizona") plays Tom Welles, a highly-educated private investigator whose most com­mon assignment is snapping pictures of influential men cheating on their wives. He leads a bland, run-of-the­mill life in Harrisburg, Pa., with his wife. Catherine Keener ("Your Friends and Neighbors") and his little girl Cindy, to whom he refers as Cinderella. 
Everything seems to be kosher for the Welles family until the day when Tom gets a call from a wealthy old widow whose husband recently passed away. It seems she opened up her spouse's ultra-secret. private vault to discover its contents, which included a reel of eight millimeter "snuff" film of a teenage girl being 
broke up with his girl­friend the day before. Lucy attempts lo cheer Kevin up, but he does not understand why New YAar's is such a big deal. 
Val, played by Christina Ricci ("The Addams Family," "The Opposile of Se.x"), is a high schnol girl who desperately wants to be older than she is. She tricks her t\iend Stephie, played by Gaby Hoffman (" Field of Dreams" "Now and 
Then'') into coming into the big, bad city for New Year's Eve. Armed with fake I.D.s and attitudes, the girls 

Christina Ricci plays Val, a high schooler who 

decide to search for Monica's p11rty (who hap­pens to be Val's cousin). They don't have the party's address and figure they will be able to walk around New York and find it. 
Jack, played by Jay Mohr (''Jerry Maguire"), has prob­le ms of his own when his one night-stand, Cindy (Kate Hudson), turns out to be a disaster waiting to happen. In one night she believes she has fallen in love with him, even though not one thing has gone right since the two of them have been together. 
Garcia assembled an amazing cast and intriguing 
plot idea, but failed to 
use this ensemble to 
its fullest capabilities. 
Jumping on the Photo courtesy of Pam mount Pictures bandwagon of setting a Martha Plimpton stars as Monica in "200 Cigarettes,'' movie in the 1980s, 
yet another movie set in the 1980s. 

Garcia does not use this aspect of the plot well. The movie goes over the top with the punk motif and forgets that disco was dead by this timo. 
Their are points of amusement with the 1980s, such as two women being totally turned off by the cute bartender (Ben Affleck) when they find out he is not an artist but a law student -which is too yuppie for them to deal with. These moments of 1980s amusement are too few and far between to justify another movie set during this time period. 
Casey Afneck finally got a part in a movie that was more sub­stantial than his brother Ben's part, unfortunately, neither of the 
wants in on the action of New Years Eve, in "200 

Affiecks are portrayt!d to the best 
Cigarettes." 
brutally murdered with"8mm" a knife in s & m fash­ion. 
lt is now Welles' job
Director: Joei Schumacker 
to find out who the girl was and to tell the old widow whether or no!. 
Starring: Nicholas Cage, Joaquin Phoenix, 
Peter Stormare and Catherine Keener 

the footage contains a girl actually being slaughtered, or if the movie is a bogus Hollywood reenact­ment of a slaying. 
Cage is hot on the case and in no time at all, he has found out the girl's identity, met 
her boyfriend's father, the boyfriend and the her alcoholic mother. He also finds her private diary, which Axplains why she decid­ed to run off to California: to become a bright, shining star. 
Once in Los Angeles, Welles meets an adult bookstore clerk and wannabe rock-and-roller named Max, played by Joaquin Phoenix ("To Die For," "Return to Paradise," "Inventing the Abbots"). The two make an unusual team, with Cage sporting the black clothes, dark sunglasses and rough, muffled voice, while his coun­terpart is a younger version, with blue spiked hair, tattoos and bizarre piercings. 
The case leads the two through thP. bowels of t.he L.A. sex industry in search of the extremely secretive makers of "snuff movies." Welles gets his big break when he finds a hard­core porn producer played by James Gandolfini ("True Romance," "The Juror," "A Civil Action"), who leads Cage directly to the actual director of the film, a seedy New Yorker played of their abilities. Onn can S()e a glim­m1ir of Casey's acting abilitins bfigin to shine through, but hn was not given enough or a movie to really shine. 
Christina Ricci and Gaby lloffman are amusing as two high school girls hell-bent on hAing cool and finding Uw action, but this is nothing new for llicci, who often plays the roln of some­one who wants despcratnly to be se<rn as bad. Her performance was prcl.ty stale, but Gaby lloffrnan came through. 
To sec a movie that morn accurately depicts tlrn l980s, borrow "Tlw Wedding Singer" from thP room rwxt door. To sec a movie with a great cast of upcoming actors usnd to their potential, look elsewhere. Do not wastP time or money on "200 Cigarctt<~s." Disappointment will be the only result. 

Cage fades into dark in '8mm' 
by Peter Stormare ("Fargo," "The Lost World: Jurassic Park," "Armageddon"). The director is quite unpleasant with his inch-long finger­nails, Gothic style wardrobe and the massive henchman who wears an s & m ~tyle ri:as~, and who is known only as MachmP. 

In true Joel Schumacher form, the film is terribly drawn out and tries to teach the audience something that they do not want to know. The romance between Welles and his wife is weak at best, mainly because of an ultimatum that is only halnrnartedly enforced. Cage tries to play a tough guy while still riding on the coattails of "Kiss of Death," "The Rock" and "Con Air," but it goes nowhere fast. 
James Gandolfini steals the show with his gritty portrayal or an abusive, low-life, smut-peddling producer who 
fears neither Welles, nor the moral effects of his grotesque business. 
The film was originally slapped with an NC-17 rating, which is understand­ab Ie given the material and the nature of the film. With som11 car<'ful editing, Schumacher was abhl to trim some shots of cxtremP snx and vio­
lence to get a run­ning time of a IP.ngthy 123 min­utes. Both the MPAA l'ating board and Columbia Pictures were much happier with th«i H-rating. as NC-17 seems to brand a curse or low box-oflice numbers. 
The film is inter­esting at times as it asks some difficult questions concern­ing runaway chil­dren and their par­en ts' true ideas about suitable revenge. The ending is somewhat anti-di­m actic. (The audi­ence knows the end­
ing 20 minutes into the picturn.) We know the bad guys die much-dcservPd deaths, the good guys will triumph and one person who we think is a good guy turns out to bo batting for the other side. 
.Joel Schumacher's 1992 dark drama, "Falling Down," starring Michael Douglas, was truly enjoyabl,1. But his first dramatic attempt after the last two fading "Batman" movies was a fledgling attempt at proving that rich and prosperous people can be wrong. 

~~-___,..,......________________________ 
'I 
S€ene 
O
THf

Monday, March 29, 1999 -------------------BSERVER ---------------------page 11 
¦ EASTER SUGGESTIONS ..• 
¦ CHART-TOPPERS 

Check out Scene's Easter guide to aging movies: 
Messag~ in a Bottle 
/\ roma11Lic drama starring K1win Costnnr and Hobin Wrigbt-1'111111, "Message" prns(•nts a tragic scnnario of a man (Costner) who can never rnally lt•t go of losing his first love. Whnn Wright-l'cnn finds a mossage that Costner wrote to that lost love. slw makes finding the author of the messag11 a top priority. Nol !'or nvery­onn. "Mossage .. can be a little sappy. Fnr those hopelnss romantics out there, it's a good pick. 

Photo courtesy of Warner Bro1hers Kevin Costner and Robin Wright-Penn star in "Message in a Bottle" 
Analyze This ~/1 .,) 
"/\nalvzn This" is a mob comedy starring Hobert Dn Niro and Billy Crystal. Though a box-office success, ttw film's attempt to capitalize on a comic De Niro !naves mur:h to be dcsirrHI. /\s a spool' un mob f'i!ms, many of which De Niro starred in, "Analyze" pretty much never gels monwnlllm going, and thus gives no 
mason for analysis. 
Cnwl Intentions 
A remake of "Dangerous Liaisons," "Crud lnt1intio11s'' rollows two tnenagn stl\p-siblings as they attempt to ruin llw lives of' two sPemingly innocnnt dassmalns in a naughty ganrn of sexu­al mischlHf'. Hyan Phillipp and Sarah Midwlle (;pJ!ar star as the stnp-sib­lings who rnakP a bet abC1ut Phillipe's capabilities of seducing HeesP Witherspoon and Selma Blair. The plot thickf!llS when true feelings enlnr lllfi picturn. \1ildly succnssful at the hox-officr1, "lntnntinns" might take a fpw days lo settle. 
For anyone who has watched any bit of talk TV in the last throe months. the star of "Lil'll is Beautiful" cleiirly is now a household name. Hoberto Benigni wrote, dirncled and starred in this light-hearted llolocaust film. made in Italy. Afler winning Oscars for Best Actor and Best Poreign-Language film, "Life is Beautiful" truly has made its mark on hoth the 1998 and 1999 film indus­try. Showing the triumph of the human will so cleverly, "Life" is a must-see. 

It kicked you-know-what at the Oscars, winning Gwyneth Paltrow and Judi Dench acting awards, as well as the most-coveted Hest Picturn award. With four other Oscars to shelve this year, "Shakespeare in Love" certainly deserved all of its recognition. Following a young William Shakespeare through a bout with writnr's block, the !'ilm showcas­es Paltrow as the solution to any man's problems. Another must-sec. 
Payback 
Mel Gibson stars in this dark film with revenge in its mind. Directed by Rrian Helgeland. the film fails to deliver as Ilelgcland's other works did ("L.A. Confidential," "Bulworth,"). Though a very good­looking film, "Payback" does not suc­ceed in dealing with revenge or even Urn underworld in which this revenge takes place. Gibson's voice-overs only serve unfortunately to dissect the film further, giving the audience nothing to enjoy. 


Movie Title Gross Sales 
1. Forces of Nature $ 9.6 million 2. EDtv $ 9.0 million 3. Analyze This $ 8.8 million 4. The Mod Squad $ 6.1 million 5. Doug's First Movie $ 4.4 million 6. Shakespeare in Love $ 4.4 million .7. True Crime $ 3.3 million 
8. 
Life is Beautiful $ 3.2 million 

9. 
Baby Geniuses $ 2.7 million 

10. 
Cruel Intentions $ 2.4 million 


Source: Associated Press 

Movie Title 
1. There's Something About 
Mary 
2. 
Ronin 


3. 
Snake Eyes 

4. 
Rush Hour 

5. 
Antz 


6. 
The Truman Show 

7. 
Practical Magic 

8. 
Rounders 

9. 
Ever After 

10. 
What Dreams May Come 


Source: Billboard Online 
-
1ngSoon 
The Matrix, starring Keanu Reeves The Out-of-Towners, starring Goldie Hawn and Steve Martin 
Go, starring Katie Holms and William Fichtner Never Been Kissed, starring Drew Barrymore and David Arquette 
,. 
a :ws a 
I. 
page 12 The Ohserver • SPORTS Monday, March 29, 1999 
¦ NBA 
Mullin leads Pacers past Celtics, 101-95 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 
Chris Mullin scored all 16 of his points in the lhird quarter as the Indiana Pacers remained perfect in coach Larry Bird's era against his old team. heat­ing the Hoston Celtics 101-93 Sunday. 
The Pacers, 5-1 in their last six games, improved to 6-0 against Boston in Bird's second season. 
t\lurk .Jackson had 15 points, Heggie :Vliller 14 and Jalen Rose 13 nff the bench for the Pacers. 
Hnn Mercer led Boston with 24 points, while Antoine Walker had 20 points and 11 rebounds. 
Indiana scored the game's first eight points and never trailed in raising its record to a franchise-best 20-8 at this stage of the season. 
The Celtics, 2-11 in their last 13 games, had two chances to tie the score in the second half. but missed 3-point attempts. 
The Pacers. who led 51-42 at the half, extended their lead to 72-60 on a Mullin layup before Boston scored 12 of the next 15 points. 
When the Celtics had their first chance to tie, Walker missed a 3-pninter from the right corner. 
Mullin then sandwiched two jumpers around a basket by Walker, giving Indiana a 79-74 lead after three periods. 
Trailing 81-78 early in the fourth quarter, Boston had a chance to tie again, but Paul Pierce missed a 3-pointer from the left corner. 
Boston closed to 86-84 ori Mercer's turnaround with just over six minutes left before the Pacers took charge by scoring 10 of the next 12 points. 
Bird. who played from 1979­92 with the Celtics during his Hall of Fame career, received a standing ovation when he emerged from the tunnel lead­ing to the floor before the game. 
Pistons 104, Supersonics 87 
Lindsey Hunter scored 20 
-points, and Jerry Stackhouse 
and Bison Dele added 18 each 
to lead the surging Detroit 
Pistons to a 104-87 victory 
Sunday over the Seattle 
Supersonics. 
Detroit led by as many as 27 
points in winning for the fifth 
time in six games overall and 
10th in 12 at home. The Sonics, 
starting a live-game road trip, 
fell to 3-9 on the road by losing 
to the Pistons for only the 
fourth time in their last 13 
meetings. 
The game started at 9:35 
a.m. Seattle time, and the Sonics were sluggish. They trailed 28-8 in the first 10 min­utes. 
Hunter had 13 points in the 
opening quarter as Detroit 
went up 30-16, and the Pistons 
kept it up in the second. They 
outscored the Sonics 28-22 for 
a 58-38 halftime lead, with 
Stackhouse getting nine of his 
16 first-half points in the peri­
od. 
Detlef Schrempf opened the 
third period with consecutive 
3-pointers for Seattle, but Dele 
stepped up for Detroit. He 
scored 12 points in the period, 
allowing the Pistons to lead by 
as many by 25. 
Schrempf and Jelani McCoy led Seattle with 12 points each. 
Raptors 91, Bulls 78 
Rookie Vince Carter had 22 
points and six blocked shots as 
the Toronto Raptors beat the 
Chicago Bulls 91-7°8 Sunday, 
extending their franchise­
record home winning streak to 
six games. 
, The Bulls, who were without 
leading scorer Toni Kukoc, 
sidelined with a back strain, 
lost their fourth straight. 
Doug Christie had 20 points 
for Toronto, winner of eight of 
its last 10 games. Charles 
Oakley had 13 rebounds. 
Brent Barry led Chicago with 
17 points. Mark Bryant had 13. 
The victory moved the 
Raptors, who led by as many as 
19 points, to .500 (14-14), the 
latest in the season they've 
ever been at that level.. Last 
season after 28 games, they 
were 4-24. 
¦ NHL 

Amonte leads Chicago to win 
Associated Press 

CIIICAGO 
Tony Amonte scored three goals, including his 40th, to power the Chicago Blackhawks to a 3-1 victory over the St. Louis Blues Sunday. 
It was Amonte's second hat trick of the season and sixth of his career. It also marked the second time he has scored at least 40 goals in a season. 
Amonte scored two goals in the first periorl to give the Blackhawks an early 2-0 lead. Then he scored the clincher with a power-play goal in Lhc second after the Blues had made it a one-goal game. 
The Blues outshot Chicago 36-16. 
Chicago took a 1-0 lead 53 seconds into the game when Amonte scored on a rebound for his 500th 1\HL point. Amonte made it 2-0 wilh u slap shot from the left circle. 
Amonte appeared to have another goal at 10:58 of the first when his shot between the circles sailed into the net, but the goal was disallowed because Dean McAmmmond was in the goal crease. 
With the Blues holding a two-man advantage, they trimmed Chicago's lead to 2-1 at 7:24 of the second when Pierre Turgeon scored his 20th from about 20 feet out. 
Amante then scored his third of the day with a backhander at 11 :02 for his 40th goal. 
The win gave Chicago a 2-4­0 record against St. Louis this season. 
Avalanche 7, Kings 2 

Patrick Rov tied Hall of Farner Glenn ·Hall for fourth place on the all-time regular­season winning list with his 407th, making 26 saves as the Colorado Avalanche beat the Los Angeles Kings 7-2 Sunday. 
Only Terry Sawchuk (447), Jacques Plante (434) and Tony Esposito (423) have more reg­ular-season wins than Plante and Roy (407-240-94). The win was Roy's 506th overall com­bining regular season and playoff wins, one more than Plante. 

....... 
AFP Photo 

Pierre Turgeon scored the only goal for the St. Louis Blues in their 3­
1 loss to the Chicago Blackhawks. 
Theo Fleury had a hat trick and an assist for the Avalanche, who are 5-3-2 in their last 10 home games. It was the third hat trick of the season and 14th of his career for Fleury, who has points in all six games (7 goals, 6 assists) since coming to Colorado in a Feb. 28 trade with Calgary. 
Joe Sakic had a goal and two assists and Milan Hejduk four assists for the Avalanche. 
Kings starting goalie Jamie Storr lasted only 5:09 into the game before being pulled for Stephane Fiset. Russ Courtnall and Jan Laperriere had unas­sisted goals for the Kings, who lost their third straight. 
Colorado scored 34 seconds into the game when Fleury sent a one-timer under the stick of Storr after receiving a cross-ice pass from Sakic. Oeadmarsh picked up a loose puck in the slot and sent a wrist shot between the pads of Storr at 5:09. 
Fiset replaced Storr and escaped further damage in the period, but not in the second period when the Avalanche extended their lead to 5-1. Fleury and Sakic worked a give-and-go from the neutral zone with Fleury putting the return pass into the net at 3:01 for his 36th. 
Lemieux scored 23 seconds later on a rebound. Courtnall cashed in on Roy's turnover at 
5:46 for Los Angeles, but Sakic matched it with his 37th at 11:20. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. ~t the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3p.m. All claS.'ilfieds musr be p'.q,a,d. .
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the nght to ed1t all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
ILOST & FOUND I  SUMMER EMPLOYMENT: ART EDUCATION ASSISTANT  House For Rent 4-5 Bedroom Close to Campus  SUMMER SUBLEASE Upper COLLEGE PARK 2 Bdrm, A/C, wash/dryer  COUNTDOWN TO THE •• LEWIS CRUSH •• 12 DAYS  You know those "Roberto Benigni speaks Italian: Shouldn't you?" signs?  
SNITE ART MUSEUM.Get  Includes: Dishwasher,  also  will YOU be invited?  Well, they're just not as lunny when  
Lost:  100 CDs that were in a black  teaching experience while  Washer/Dryer, Fridge, Stove.  FURNITURE in great cond.  the Latin department tries to do  
CaseLogic carrying case.  Lost in  making a difference in South  Remodeling Kitchen in spring.  couches, tables, beds  Beth,  them.  
Lafortune the night of 2/26199.  Bend' Assist Education  RENT REDUCEOI  Call 273-2917  Sorry I didn't really like your movie,  
Monetary reward being offered if  Curator with summer youth  Call 289-4712  but at least the rest of the weekend  "Ho there!"  
found. No questions asked Please call Brian at 4-1126 w/ any  art program focusing on museum objects and art  Tri-level 3 bdrm house, 1-1/2 mi.  FOR SALE  was nice. Mike  "You can keep your 'ho there."' --The Princess Bride  
info.  making.June 1-July 30, 15-20  from campus across from park with  
LOST GLASSES  hours per week.Fine Arts &educa­.. tion majors with exp  1 • 1 /2 baths, family room with fire­place, 2-car garage, fenced-in back  NEW Rates Phone Cards 282 min. $20 call 258-4805  Erin, Here is another stinkin classified.  The desk phantom rides again'  
Grey Frames  leaching &/or working with  yard. AC. stove, refrig, WID, G/D &  Mike  Brendan O'C: You will pay for that  
Hard. Leather Case II Found, Call Rebecca x1464  children preferred. INCLUDES ROOM & BOARD June 20  DfW. $995/mo. 683-5038 or 232· 4527  TICKETS  NEED 2 gradution tix  CD  Oh, yes._you will pay dearly.  
July 30.  Call John @271-8531  No fantasy league mistakes for this  
.  WANTED  (6/20-7/30,additional Work Study hours-if eligible-with  516 BDRM HOMES NEAR CAM· PUS. FURN. 272•6551  I need graduation tickets• Call Kelly @243-8932  Finn, Noreen ­ week.  
National Youth Sports  Yes, I'm vertical, no thanks to either  COUNTDOWN TO THE  
Freshman laking gen chem looking  Program.for total 40 hrs/wk if  2 bfks. from campus. 4·5 bdrm  In DIRE need of graduation tickets  of you.  •• RAMBLER SCRAMBLER ••  
for a roomate for the summer ses­ desired)CALL ASAP for  home. fireplace. 1O' ceilings  PLEASE call John @217-8531  12 DAYS  
sion. Call Peter at 4-0992 if interest- application form 631-4435  $650/mo. available now.  WHY do I only get the weird ones?  will YOU be invited?  
ed.  App. deadline Aprll 6  Call Jason @289-4365  PERSONAL  WHY? WHY? WHY?  The end.  
Mystery ShOppers Wanted You dine.We pay.  FOR RENT  STAYING IN SOUTH BEND FOR THE SUMMER???  Fax it fast at THE COPY SHOP in  Scott T. in Dillon -­Another classified for you. Do you  No...this is the end.  
2 years professional bar/dining  Lovely five-bedroom, single family  LaFortune.  FAX Sending and  feel cool?  
experience required.Why not enJoy  house available tor sub-lease.  Receiving :  631-FAX1  She was the prospective and she  
a meal out on us?Call PDB  WALK TO SCHOOL  About a mile from campus.  Burt·­ provided some entertainment.  
Management Company  2·6 BEDROOM  Safe neighborhood. Clean. Two  When you need copies ..  I was helping out a friend when I  
1-888-656-7999.  STARTING $185  window air-conditioners.  We're OPEN!!!  saw you at Meijer. Really.  So little time to enjoy the beauties  
MONTH/PERSON  Washer and dryer. stove, retrige.  THE COPY SHOP  of life in a toga.  
SEASONAL SALES PERSON  232-2595  Call 634-0562 for info.  LaFortune Student Center  Joe K. •­ 
...  NEEDED IN LOCAL GOLF PRO SHOP  631-COPY Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight  I forgot your fourth roommate's name or I'd send him a classified  I have to buy pegs for the Light· Bright.  
CALL 282-3727 AND ASK FOR  BED 'N BREAKFAST  2 Bdrm Apt at College Park to sub- Fri:  7:30am-7:00pm  too.  
DICK WALKER  REGISTRY  lease tor summer session.  Call 4·  Sat Noon-6:00pm  THIS IS THE END!  
219-291-7153  3620.  Sun: Noon-Midnight  Buongiorno, Principessa1  


-------------~..----------......-------......---------------------------------...----, 
Monday, Mardi 29, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 13 
¦ PROFESSIONAL GOLF ASSOCIATION ,. 
Duval sinks clutch putt to claim Players Championship 

NEEDAJOB for the 1999=2000--academic year? 
Student Activities is now accepting applications for all areas: 
LaFortune Building Managers Stepan Center Managers Ballroom Monitors Office A)sistants Set Up Crew fnformation Desk Attendants Sound Technicians ND Express Shipping Attendants 

Applications available at 315 Lafortune. Deadline for applying is Thursday, April 1. For more information, call 631-7308. 
Cheers greeted him at  nasty rough of a U.S. Open and  The ball descendnd from a  
every turn. and while  supersonic greens like Augusta  brilliant blue sky into (, fer.t  
be left the galleries  National, even though they put  and he made the birdie. J\ chip  
llcdding their breath at  additional water on them  to within a foot on tho 18th snt  
times, he pulled  overnight.  off Urn celd1ration.  
through !'or the biggest  What Duval may have lacked  Duval won $900,000. which  
win of his career.  in emotion was made up for  pushes his season earnings to  
''I've got to thank you  with three shots that shook the  just morn than $2.1 million.  
all." Duval said lo the  Stadium Course.  That's about $;,00,000 shy of'  
crowd. "I don't know if  lie was tied for the lnad at  what hn won all of last year.  
I could have done it  two-under and facing the  It also completNl a hat trick  
without you. I felt the  prospect of his fourth bogey of  of the PGA Tour's thrne most  
vibes. and it was a  the front nine wtrnn he holed a  elitn events -llH\ winnors­ 
wonderful day."  bunker shot to take the lead  only Mercndes Championship,  
Woods, who could  fur good.  the Tour Championship for the  
have kept his No. 1  Three holes later. Im  top 30 money-winnors, and  
ranking by finishing  knocked in a 15-f'oot putt Crom  The Players Championship,  
sixth. made a bogey on  off the green to get to 1·our­ traditionally the best field on  
the last hole l'or a 75 to  under. When Scott llqch failed  tour.  
finish at threeover 291.  to save par up ahead on the  This year's' field was the  
tied for 10th. He had  13th, Duval had a three-stroke  third-strongest in golf' this  
been No. 1 for 65  lead.  decade, and it seenrnd only lit­ 
weeks, including the  That proved to be important,  . ting that a new No. I would  
last 41 in a row.  because not even Duval was  emerge from Urn pack.  


The Observer sports
Got 

department is currently
lime'l 

looking for sports production
Need 

assistants. It is a paid position. money'l If interested please call 1-4543. 
Robertq Benigni speaks Italian. 

2701 ROIT 101 01 2702 RO!T 101 02 2703 ROIT 101 03 3412 ROIT 101 04 4936 ROIT 101 05 
5296 ROIT 201 01 5297 ROIT 201 02 5298 ROIT 201 03 
2952 ROIT 111 F 01 1359 ROIT 111 F 02 5295 ROIT 112F 01 
4937 ROIT 240 01 3545 ROIT 345 01 4939 ROIT 411 01 3654 ROIT 421 01 
3246 ROIT 501 01 4390 ROIT 546 01 5246 ROIT 581 01 4403 ROIT 583 01 
Shouldn't you? 
Register now for fall 
For more information on course offerings call 631-6781 
Beginning Italian I  3.0  
Beginning Italian I  3.0  
Beginning Italian 1  3.0  
Beginning Italian I  3.0  
Beginning Italian I  3.0  

Comprehensive 2nd yr 3.0 Comprehensive 2nd yr 3.0 Comprehensive 2nd yr 3.0 
Intensive Beginning I 5.0 Intensive Beginning I 5.0 Intensive Beginning II 5.0 
OK Computer Italian 3.0 Intro Med & Ren Lit 3.0 Cinema e Letteratura 3.0 Dante I 3.0 
Ital Lang Acq Methods 1.5 Venetian & N. Ital. Art 3.0 Gramsci: Cult Pol Crit 3.0 Courts Renaiss Italy 3.0 
View 
Irish way 
(219)272-1441 


mall chanue . '•\ ·• ·•·... ,, 
·.. ownhemasAvl:llltttor · 
.•vear, As low as 2 .08 

.:per personl IPPIV bldaVI 
11:ecreek Apartments
212~8124 
-
¦ 
MWF MWF MWF MWF MWF 
MWF MWF MWF 
MWF MWF MWF 
TH TH MW TH 
F 
TH 
w 
M 09:35-10:25 10:40-11 :30 10:40-11 :30 11 :45-12:35 12:50-01 :40 
09:35-10:25 10:40-11 :30 11 :45-12:35 
09 :35-1 0:25 10:40-11 :30 12:50-01 :40 
11:00-12:15 09:30-10:45 11 :45-01 :00 02:00-03:15 
02:-03:15 09:30-10:45 06:30-09:00 02:00-04:00 TH 09:30-10:45 TH 11:00-12:15 TH 12:30-01 :45 
T  09:30-10:20  
H  11 :00-11 :50  
H  11 :00-11 :50  
H  11 :00-11 :50  
H  12:30-01 :20  

(Cachey, T.) (Moevs, C.) (Ryan, C.) (Cachey, T.) 
(Ryan, C.) (Coleman, R.) (Buttigieg, J.) (Rosenberg, C.) 

As.mcioted Pre.. 
PONTE Vl-:DHA HEACII, Fla. 
David Duval beat the best lidd under llw touglrnst condi­tions with a clutch shot Sunday in Tlw Players Cbampiunship. Now, not Pvcn 11w world rank­ing ,,an dispu tn tlu1 f'act that golf lias a nnw No. I. 
With rnmarkable cool that has bncom 1• his trad1\m ark. Duval hirdind llin treaclrnrous 17th island hole lo securo a lWfl-slrr1k1\ virtory over Scott 1;11111p and l"inally cnabl,, him lo Wppl11 Ti){IH' Wonds in lhr. world rnnkings. 
Duval closed with a 1 -ovnr 73 to !'inish at 285. Urn highest winning score in the Players sincn it moved to the TPC al Sawgrass in 1982. Gump hit in tho water and took double bogey on tho par-3 17th. but birdied the 18th to finish at 287. 
Nick Price was third at 288. Fred Coupltis had the best round of' tho day, a four-under h8 that he finished bcf'orn Duval even rcmched tho second green. 
That shot Couples from a tie for 40th into a tie !'or fourth with Ila! Sutton at 289. 
Duval's victory came just two hours after his father Bob won the Emerald Coast Classic on the Senior Tour. making them the l'irsi father-son combina­tion to win tour-sanctioned nvents on the same day. 
"This means the world to me," Duval said. "It has turned into a dream year already, and it's only March." 
The victory only confirmed Duval as the world's best play­er, and what a place for the coronation. 
Duval grew up near the TPC at Sawgrass, even played as a marker when he was 18. 

"To win a big one like this, he deserves to be No. 1 in the world," Woods said. 
Duval becomes just the third player to ascend to No. 1 with­out having won a major. Ian Woosnam and Fred Couples were both No. l right bef'ore they won the Masters. 
"Why don't you give him the green jacket," a fan cried out during the trnphy prnsentation on the 18th green. 
Duval's 10th victory in his last 33 tournaments did not come easily. nor was it expect­ed. The Stadium Course was set up like a major, with Urn 
immune from dropping shots on a course that play(~d :L4 strokes over par. And it loom<id nven larger wlrnn Gump birdied the 18th to got to one-under. 
Duval missod tho green at No. 14 and had to make a (,­foofor to save bogey. 
On tho next hole, he f"ailMI to save par from a bunknr. llis lead was down lo onn stroke wlrnn he stepped to the 17th, the hole that drowns so many hopes. 
With a wedge in his hand and ice in his v•~ins, Duval was impervious to the prnssuro. 


page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, March 29, 1999 
¦ MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Castro and Cuba welcome back America's pastime 
Associated Press three years ago. 
Major league teams once vis­
HAVANA ited Cuba regularly, but this 

When the sharp grounder was Lhe first game since the was scooped up at second, Los Angeles Dodgers and Cuba's president and No. 1 Baltimore Orioles played on 
baseball fan; Fidel Castro, March 21. 1959, about 2 1/2 shrugged his broad shoulders, months after Castro's revolu­made an "oh well" gesture tion ousted dictator Fulgencio with his hands and turned to Batista on New Year's Day. leave. This exhibition -agreed 
Game over. upon after the Clinton admin­

The Cubans didn't beat the istration decided in January to Baltimore Orioles. but they ease the four-decade-old U.S. sure came close, proving they have some of the best baseball 
'IREALLY WISH THIS

players in the world. 
WILL NOT BE THE LAST

Harold Baines. only 6 days old when major league teams GAME WHEN MAJOR LEAGUE last played in Cuba, singled in 
TEAMS WILL PLAY CUBAN

the tiebreaking run in the 11th inning Sunday, giving the NATIONAL TEAMS.' 
Baltimore Orioles a 3-2 victory over a Cuban all-star team. 
OMAR LINARES
Thr, 50,000 specially select­

ed fans in Estadio CUBA 's THIRD BASEMAN Latinamericano left disap­pointed. Still, the Cubans put trade embargo against Cuba ­on quite a show. ended the seemingly indefinite 
Jose Contreras allowed two baseball disassociation hits over eight shutout innings between two countries that and struck out 10, tlrn most consider the game its national sparkling of several Cuban pastime. 
players who showed they "For many years we've been could play at a major league trying to have this match," level. Cuba third baseman Omar 
Baltimorn took a 2-0 lead on Linares said before the game. Charles Johnson's two-run "f really wish this will not be homer. but Roberquis Videaux the last game when majorhit an RB[ single in the sev­league teams will play Cuban 
enth and Omar Linares, Cuba's national teams. I hope these most renowned player, singled games will turn into a regular in the tying run in the eighth. event." 
The Orioles. who have a pro­There will be a rematch in jectPd payroll in excess of $80 _ Baltimore on May 3, and per­million payroll, would have haps the Cubans will fare bet­been embarrassed if they had ter with the addition of players 
lost to a team of amateurs who who missed this exhibition earn an average of $10 a because of their involvement month. in the country's playoffs. 
Castro watched l'rom the This time, however, the first row behind the plate, sit­Cuban amateurs barely came ting between baseball commis­up short when Baines' two­sioner Bud Selig and Orioles single single off Pedro Lazo owner Peter Angelos, who first scored Will Clark, who dou­broached the idea of the game bled with one out. 
WARNING: When surfing the web 


was given the quick hook after hitting Brady Anderson with a pitch to open the third. 
WEEKEND 

The crowd was well-behaved by Cuban standards, in part 
RACQUETBALL

because they were all invited by Castro's government. There 

.was no alcohol sold, no drums 
TOURNAMENT 

or bells and few incidents in the stands. 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY

But they made plenty of noise in the seventh inning, 
APRIL 9 & APRIL 10

when Videaux hit an RBI sin­gle to make it 2-1. The crowd 
JOYCE CENTER

got even louder in the eighth when Linares singled in the 
Men's & Women's Divisions 
tying run. The game was held in the 
T-Shirts to all Participants refurbished Estadio Latinamericano, which, like 
Bring Your Own Racquet 

Camden Yards, offers a 
Balls Will be Provided

panoramic view of the ctty beyond the outfield bleachers. 
Refreshments Will be Served 
Some fans beat the invitation­only requirement by watching 
Register in Advance at .z;?,e.,,_o/-7 z::-.=. 
the game from a couple of 
Deadline: Wednesday, April 7

aging apartment buildings behind left field. 
$8.00 Fee 

11WHAT1S THE FUTURE 
Jesse Orosco then preserved the lead in the bottom half after allowing Loidel Chapelli's one-out single. 
Second baseman Jesse Garcia made a pair of sparkling plays, first snaring a hard grounder by Videaux and retiring the lead runner at sec­ond by inchP.s, th1rn stopping Juan Manrique's hard shot and throwing to first for the final out. · 
Cuba threatened in the first but was thwarted by Baltimore's defense. Luis Ulacia was thrown out by right fielder Albert Belle trying to stretch a single and Jose Estrado was cut down at the plate trying to score on an infield grounder. 
Baltimore went up 2-0 in the second when B.J. Surhoff got a leadoff single and Johnson drove a pitch from Jose Ibar over the left-field wall. !bar, who went 18-2 this season, 
AFP Photo 

Cuban president Fidel Castro talks to Orioles owner Peter Angelos during Baltimore's 3-2 win over the Cuban national team. 
for New York apartments, 


OF THIS RELATIONSHIP?11 
at Tribeca Pointe, you may actually get wet. 


SUNDAY, APRIL 11 1 :00 -5:00 PM 
A workshop for couples in a serious relationship who want to explore choices and decisions for the future including the possibility of marriage 
TOPICS TO BE PRESENTED: -Stages of relationship -Steps in making healthy decisions -Long-distance relationships 
PRE-REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED BY THURSDAY, APRIL 8 
Applications are available at either Campus Ministry Office: Badin Hall or Library Concourse 
-. 
Questions? Call 631-5242 Ask for Chris: John or Sylvia 
Monday, March 29, 1999 The Observer• PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
Abortion, euthanasia and capital 
punishment demean the lives of 
countless inciividuals in our society. 
Gather with us in Eucharistic 
Adoration to pray for an end 
to the culture of death. 



"J 111alle a holy hour each day in the presence of Jesus in the Blessed Sacrament. All my sisters of the Missionaries of Charity mahe a daily Italy lwur as well, because we find tliat tlzrougfi our daily lwly llrur our love for Jesus becomes 111ore intimate, 011r love for each other more wulerscandinz, and our love for Llze poor more 
CO/ll{HlSSionale ... If 
-Mother Teresa 
Sp011~oml hy Nolrr D,1111c Ri1:h1 10 Life AMIJC • /Ml 

Jesus is here with us in the Eucharist lo giv~ us answers-answers 
tl1at will lead us to truth, happiness and peace. In this culture of 
death, it is easy for people to become weary and indifferent to God and His gift of life. People often fall short of their obligation to care 
for and nurture the spiritual and physical lives of themselves and oth­ers. Eud1aristic Adoration gives a person the opportunity to nurture 
his own spiritual life, as well as the spiritual lives of others 
( through prayer for them.) Prayer also protects the physical 
lives of those endangered by abortion, euthanasia and 
other forms of violence. lt is orily through the grace which 
comes-from prayer that others' hearts can be changed from seeking death to loving life. Christ gives us the strength to press on in our battle for life. In order to be Christ-like in our service to preserve life, we must be filled with His life through prayer. 
We ask you to join us in prayer for life at Eucharistic Adoration. 
What is Eucharistic Adoration? 
G~'Jd is present to us in many ways in our world, but He is especially present to us in the Eucharist As Roman Catholics. we believe that Jesus Christ. who lived :woo years ago, is truly present in the Eucharist. In Eucharistic. Adoration, the Iiost is placed in a monstrance, in order for us to be able to come anJ pray. Jesus is always hidden in the tabernacle, but in adoration Ile is exposed so that we can come and knc:el before l lim, face to face, and speak with God. When lesus is exposed like this, lie ca11 never be left alone. lhus, people sign up to be responsible tu come anJ pray with Him for a certain amOLmt of time (usually 1/i-l hour) eveiy week 
Why should I go? 
lf Jesus were lo come to the JACC, wouldn't you come and stand in line for hours just to talk to Hi111 for a minute? Even if you weren't Christian, wou!Jn't you be at least interested in this God so many people talk about? Well, Jesus is truly present here on campus-in the Eucharist. IN ADORATION YOU HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY TO GO AND SPEAK WITH GOD FACE TO FACE. You can confide in Him, plead with llim, question Hirn. And if you sit quietly enough, He will inspire you with answers. 
What do I do when I am there? 
When you enter the chapel, you should genuflect as a sign of reverence to Jesus. It is common practice <luring Adoration to genuflect on two knees, instead of just one (like you do whenever you enter a chapel.) You can stand, sit, or kneel-whatever helps you pray. An<l then you pray. There are many ways to pray: you can do spiritual reading; you can pray a rosary; you can sit in silence; you can even just talk to Jesus­like you would to a friend. The most 1mµortanl 1hing is that you love I lim and allow 
1-1 im to love and strengthen you. 
What does the Church think? 
"faposition of llie Blessed Sai;rnmem, whether in a pyx or a monstrance, is a recognition of the wondrous Presence of Christ in tile sacramem anti siimu!ates us lo unite ourselves lO Him in a5pirilual comm1111io11. It is, accordi11gly, emi11ent1r i11 harmony with the worship wllic/i we owe Him in spirit and truth ... " 
-1'0.~1-Conciliar (VJtican II) Documcn1, S.C.D.W. 
EUCHAl{ISTIC ADORATION ON CAMPUS: 
FRIDAY: Lady Chapel in the Basilica: 12:00pm (following 11:30am Mass) -5:00pm with a Rosary beginning at 4:15pm. (Ends with Benediction at 4:45pm) 
MONDAY beginning at 11:30pm (following 11:00pm Mass) through TUESDAY at 10:00pm (Ending witli Benediction at 9:45-W:OOpm) In Fisher Hall Chapel. 
-

Lax 
continued from page 20 
found Glatzel open for a goal to knot the game at one. 
The Statesmen regained the lead on a goal by Spencer Niebuhr. 
Bishko tied the game at two on a blistering shot from 10 feet out, making a nice move against the Hobart to get himself a wide open shot. 
Todd Ulrich got his first of three assists on the afternoon as Glatzel gave the Irish their first lead of the game at 3°2. 
Notre Dame and Hobart each got two goals apiece in the sec­ond quarter. Irish goals by Brad Owen and David Ulrich kept the lead at one as the home team entered the break leading 5-4. 
The Hobart pressure defense gave the Notre Dame offense trouble in the first half. Preventing the Irish from con­trolling the ball, the Statesmen were able to gain longer offen­sive possessions for themselves. The Irish adjusted, however, and got better looks on offense later in the game. 
"We don't practice against a pressure defense so it takes a little getting used to," Dusseau said. "We started ofT in a frenzy but then we settled down. We just tried to get some long pos­sessions which was the key to the game." 
The Irish defense played solid all afternoon but its play in the second half was especially strong. Allowing only two goals off of set-plays, the Statesmen were forced to rely on lucky bounces and rebounds to score in the second half. 
"[Hobart] got a couple of goals early on," said head coach Kevin Corrigan, who earned his 100th career victorv on Saturday, "But from that point on [the dcl'ensR) played great." 
rollowing Dusseau's offensive explosion, Todd Ulrich and Niebuhr traded goals to make the score 8-5 in favor of the Irish. 
Jared Beebee then scored late in the third quarter and the again early in the fourth to bring the Statesmen within one, 8-7. 
The scored remain 8-7 for nearly 10 minutes until Irish freshman John Flandina scored his third goal of the year in a man-advantage situation. 
Flandina scooped up a rebound and flipped it past Prosser. Flandina's goal was the only man-advantage goal in four chances for the Irish. Notre Dame is now 8-27 with a man­advantage. This is an area where the Irish are looking to improve, according to Corrigan. 
"Our man-up is struggling right now," Corrigan said. "The biggest reason we are struggling right now is that we have three sophomores and a freshman on our man-up. We just need to develop. That's one of the areas we can really improve in. If we do that we will become an even harder team to heat." 
The Irish victory over a peren­nially strong Hobart team com­bined with a close loss to No. 1 ranked Loyola last week have been critical to team confidence following a disappointing early season loss to Penn State. 
"We have bounced back from the Penn State loss and are con­tinuing to play better each game," Corrigan said. "The rankings and the tournament will take care of themselves if you take care of your business. Right now our business has been 'Let's get better every time we go out there.' We are doing that now, so I am pleased." 

The Observer • SPORTS Monday, March 29, 1999 
¦ Mrn's COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Calhoun'.s dreams come true 
As•ociared Press 

ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. 
Thirteen years ago. a man named Jim -Calhoun showed up at Connecticut and promised to build a national college basket­ball power. 
His New England accent was thick, his speech confident, his smile engaging. His love of coaching, set aflame by the compassion his high school coach showed at the bedside of Calhoun's dying rather. burns brightPr than ever. 
Calhoun, whose name symbol­izes UConn's rise to elite status -in the company of North Carolina, Kentucky, Kansas and. yes. Dukfl -is one step away from his ultimate goal. 
The Jream is still alive. The 5h-ycar-old Calhoun goes !'or his first national championship Monday night when the Huskies play Duke. 
"My obligation was to come to Connecticut in l 986 and do the bost I possibly could,'' said Calhoun, who coached Northeastern t'or 14 years before taking over the Huskies. "We think we've done almost the best we possibly can. The best would be winning the national championship." 
When Calhoun arrived, UConn's basketball program was entirely a regional phenom­enon. The Huskies were happy to beat Holy Cross or Lehigh. 
Many of his current players were in junior high when UConn had its breakthrough season in 1989-90, going 31-6 and making the NCM tourna­ment for the first time since 1979. Back then, the Huskies weren't mentioned in the same breath with the giants of the sport. 
"When I was first coming in, it was UNLV, Duke and those guys," Jake Voskuhl said. "I guess UNLV hasn't carried over as much with Jerry Tarkanian leaving and all tlrn stuff happr~n­ing there. You still have your teams. Duke and North Carolina. Those have been the teams that, year in i.llld year out. have always drme well. i\nd Kansas." 
And UConn. 
For Calhoun's Huskies, noth­ing less than a national title will do. He is a victim of his own success, a man f'xpected to erase all the terrible memories of NCAA 1ournamont misfor­tune. 
"We've had terrific kids who've played for us," said 
'EVER SINCE I'VE BEEN 
HERE, HE HAS HAD 
HlS EYF.5 ON THE ANAL 
FOUR AND POSSIBLY THE 
NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP.' 
KHAL!D EL-AMIN 
UCUNN POINT GUARD 
Calhoun, f'ond of recalling play­ers likfl Hay Allen and Donycll '.\1arshall, who toiled without the reward of a Final Four. 
"Not one of those kids ever let me down, frustrated me. Thev brought me a great deal of hap­piness, and our program, our state and university a great deal of success. We were criticized for mere excellence." 
Calhoun built some great teams in the '90s, dominating the Big East even more than Georgetown did a decade ago. UConn has won a record six straight Big East regular season titles and three conference tour­nament championships in four years. 
But the Huskies fell one game short of the Final Four in 1990, 1995 and 1998, losing to Duke on Christian Laettner's buzzer­bnator at the Meadowlands tho first timl'. 
"Evrr since I've bPPn lrnrc, lw has had his eves on the Final Four and possibly tlw national championship," point guard Khalid El-Amin said. "Last yPar wn fell a gamo short of' the Final Four, and this year (Wer sinc:o Aug. 19 he's been pushing us and motivating us l'.VPry prac­til:n to get better at sonrnthing. 
"Now that wn'rp lwrn, wP'rn going to try to makn tlw most of' it." 
As he stands on tlw prPcipir<' of' the tnw grnat,wss lw SP(!ks, Calhoun snnms lik«' a man who was always _dnstirwd to coach. Not so. 
"I play!~d baskPtball in c:ollPg!\ and thought I was a much bet­tf.H' player than what I was." said Calhoun, who grnw up in thn Boston area. "I didn't ever think I was going to coach. The moment I walked into a gym I was 22 years old and put a whistle on my neck -I saw I could combine things I loved. I could compet11 and I could giw something to tho kids." 
Calhoun·s coach at Braintnw (Mass.) lligh School, Fred Herget, taught him that roaches don't always have to be heart­less intimidators. 
"When my dad died when I was 15, the only person sitting in my home that day, looking after my family, was my high school coach," Calhoun said. 
I le has carried a small photo of his first granddaughter in his breast pocket throughout the NCM tournament. 
Mental snapshots of what the national championship game would be like have Bickered in his mind for years. 
"Anybody who wants to step into the arena, you can win and you can lose," Calhoun said. "I think we have chosen to trv for excellence. In this case, ec~tasy is what we're lookinl! for." 

The Saint lv1ary's/Notre Dmne Ad Club 
presents: 
"The 1998 Chicago Ad Woman of the Year" 

Andrea Murphy 
President, Grant/Jacoby, Inc. for a discussion on 
"Murphy's Laws ofAdvertising" Haggar College Center (Parlor) Monday, March 29, 1999 7:00 p.m. 

AMCRIC~N .\OV[Fl''flSING FE.Df~P,t,TION 
Tlill l.JHI/Ylffil-~~l;;;,.,,S1NC. 

Monday, March 29, 1999 The Observer •SPORTS page 17 
¦ WOMEN'S CREW 
Irish earn two first-place f~nishes 
By KERRY SM 1TH 
Spom Wrir,·r 
The Notrn Dame wonrnn's crnw toam rownd its way to a strong linish Saturday in a tri-nrnPt wilh Michigan State and Creighton Univnrsity at Lakn Ovid, Mich. 
In just thoir second outdoor 1111Hit of the spring season. lh~ Irish capturnd two lirst-placn lin­islws and earrwd sncond plac<i in threw otlwr racns, proving t.huy can compoto with nationally­ranked t1\ams. 
"Thorn WOl'I\ a lot of obvious imprnvmnnnts ovnr our previous racPs," said sPnior rownr Emily Minor. "Wn've gotten a lot stronger and have improwid our tnchnique." 
Thn lightwnight oight and novice night boats lt)d Lh<i Irish, ridging out competing boats from Michigan Slat11 and Crnighton to l\arn Lim top spot in nach rue,,. 
Tim lightweight night boat, with row1irs Lnzlin l'otlnr. MinPr. Cathnri II!\ 11 ammn 1, Patricia Oallny, Sarah Nnlson. Angela Chaput, Barb Arloth, Kalio Miller and coxswain Erin Kiernicki defeated a competitive Crnighton squad with a time of 7:30.91. Creighton's boat, which was ranked 12th nationally, finished in 7:42.59. 
"We worked really well togeth­er as a tnam," ,mid Miner. "We knew wn could win, but we were surprised by how much we won by." 
In the novice competition, Notre Dame's novice eight boat of Michelin Olsgard, Courtney Mercer. Katherine Burnett, Kelly Cooney, Amy Braun. Erin Dowd, Katin Bosson, Megan Feely and coxswain Kim Benard, earned a first-place finish with a timn of 7:15.70, narrowly defeating the second-place boat from Michigan State. 
"We had been training for the meet ail 'week sfi we were mental­ly ready," said Dowd. "We were rnally pumped up for the race and just pulled our hardest." 
Notre Dame's second novice eight boat with rowers Stephanie Morris, Mimi Raloigh, Ceci Levello, Katie Lewis, Heat.her 

Shannon, Annie Sutera, Theresa Ferry, Leah Ashe and coxswain Chana .Jayme came in third with a time of 7::{0.98 over Creighton's fourth-place squad. 
Michigan State dominated the rest of the races, capturing six first-place finishes. 
Ranked 13th in the nation, its varsity eight boat finished in 6:51.70, solidly dnfnating Notre Dame's squad or Beth Cushing, Betsy Storey, Elizabeth Nerney, Katrina Ten Eyck, Quinn Vandenberg. Katie Fox, Allison Bartsch, C:hristine Nardi and coxswain .Jade Ben. The Irish earned second place over Creighton, finishing with a time of 7:21.40. 
Michigan State's second varsity eight boat heat the Irish with a time of 7 minutes. Notrn Dame rowed to serond in 7:33.25. 
In the varsity four competitions, both Michigan State squads earned top spots, while the Irish earned two second-place finishes. 
Tho women's crow team will be back in action on April 10th at Purdue University. 
~CUT HERE AND HANG ON DOORKNOB ___ -,-----____________________ _ 
....---.1.-......... 
..., ..... 
.,, ,.. 
, ' '
. 
. I ' ' ' . . I \ . 
. I I . 
. I . l 
I I I I
. . 
I I
. . 
\.. , 'I 
' .
,.. ,., 
,.. _,
..........___.., ___...­
Dear _____ the grouch, 
There's something you should know. In the morning, you are unbelievably grumpy. And that's putting it very, very nicely. 
So, because I like you, ma;y I suggest you start the da;y with a CROISSAN'WICH" from BURGER KING: It's filled with mouthwatering sausage, egg and cheese. And that should make anyone lesscrankl(. Even you. If it doesn't, then we're on to Plan B. And you don't want to know Plan B. 
Sincerely, ______ 

THE DELICIOUS CROISSAN'WICH."  
RIGHT NOW JUST 99¢.  
The Huddle - Lllfortune Student Center  
I  
I  
BURGER KING  I I I I  
I  
I  
It just tastes better.·  I I I  

I 
·--------------------------------------------------· 
www.burgerking.com LIMITED TIME ONLY. PRICE ANO PARTICIPATION MAY VARY DURING BREAKFAST HOURS ONLY. 

Softball 
continued from page 20 
didn't have a hit, and there were two outs with the bases loaded. She really came through for us." 
Moschel (3-0) made her first start in the second game for the Irish and went four innings for the win. Alkirn was able to close out the victory and pick up the save. 
The Irish scored tw1J runs in the bottom of the second inning with a pair of RBI singles. Bowling Grer-n answered back in the top or the third with one run. Both pitchers held the other team scoreless until the end, but not with uut a scare from the visitors. 
The .Falcons led of tho top of tho seventh with two sin­gles. Both runners advanced to second and third on a. ground out. Alkire then 
intentionally walked Angie Domschot to load the bases 

-
with one out. She was ubhi to preserve the win for Lim Irish by striking out the next two batters to end the game. 
"Mnl is a real competitor," stated Miller. "lier attitude is what we want on the mound in that type of situa­tion." 
Thn Irish wnre not able to match their offensive per­formance from Saturday, but made up f'or it with quality pitching and sound defense. 
"Our defense and pitching was strong today," said Miller. "Offensively we wrmi behind in the count a lot, and Lhoy had us guessing at the plate. We were able to get the hits when we neednd them and I was very pleasnd with our tough defonso at the end or the game." 
The next game f'or the Irish is Tuesday at home at 4 p.m. against Butlnr. 

Bookstore Basketball 
1. Primetime 
2. Keyplay.com CD 3. Malicious Prosecution !II 4. En Fuego iill 5. Whoameye!
I-6. The Chosen I 7. Watch Out For The Hook,-s. Majesties 
.....9 . Don't Feel Bad, 
Everybody Can't Win •-10. Coco-Butter ~ 11. Show Me The Money -12. Still Crackers
=13.Thugs
14.Chanel 
0 15. Burn 'N Shoot I-16. Nylon Strokers ..,=17.Nelson's 18.WHAT 
E 
CD 19. Mue-Tang Clan 20.E. G. 0. 
21. Makalani's Soldiers 
22. WAXC 23. Minor's Magnums 
= 
24. Moneyballs ._ 25. Slow Your Roll=26. Chastity Belt O 27. Punching Clown 
I-28. Nunc Dimittis 
29. 
Jumbalaya 

30. 
Grundle 

31. 
Mourning Wood 

32. 
Instructional Video 


The Observer/Scott Hardy 

Conc:ratnlations Queen ofCancun! AGNES KISSA DOZEN STRONG!! 

019811 lll,l1GER Kll«l COIU'OAATION. BURGER ~ING CORPORATION IS TH' 00.USNE LICENSEE OF THE "ITJUST TASTES BETTER" TRADEMAAK AND 11-IE REGISTERED BURGER KING, CROISSANWICH Al«J IIUN fW.VES LOGO THAOfMARKS. -:---------------J 

r page 18 
I I 
i -Baseball 
continued from page 20 
this \.VePkend." said Cooke. 'Tm just lucky I got u chance to pluy and Ijust tried to make the most or it. I've been in this kind of sit­uation before and didn't step up. but I finally 'did this weekend when the team nncdcd it most." 
Wildcats' lel"Ly Aaron Krawiec (3-l l pitrherl the losing effort. allowing Lhc four runs on seven hits and six walks. The nightcap loss was credit0rl to righty Brian Buckingham (2-2), who allowed five earned runs anrl nine hits brforc being pulled in the fourth inning. 
Four Irish players each col­lected two hits -Paul O'Toole, Ust. Strickrnth and Perconte. Ust hit his 40th-carp11r home run in the first inning with Al,. c Porwl on bast>. 
Villanova took the lead in thr inning's bottom half with three runs before the Irish put them away for good in the third. O'Tuole drove in Pcrconte in the third and then doublt>d in the fourth for another RBI. 
Kalita had a safe cushion from that point on, his team leading (,-3 when he went to work in the bottom of the fourth. Notrn Damr. added· two more two-run innings in the fifth and sixth before the Wildcats shellPd Kalita in the eighth. 
A fielding error by Ust setup designated hitter Nick Piantek's 
three-run home  run  for his  
fourth  of the  year,  ending  
Kalita's night.  

Kalila (3-1) allowed eight runs, though only three earned, in the game while matching his career­high 10 strikeout.<; in seven and two-thirds innings. Freshman righty Drew Duff closed the game for the Irish, posting his second save of the season. 
Cavey added to the proven lethal rotation of Heilman and Kalita in Sunday's first game against Hutgers. Playing the Scarlet Knights for the first time since losing to them 12-0 in last year's Big East championship, the Irish would have a full plate challenging them early in the 
¦ SPORTS BRIEFS 
Weekend Racquetball Tournament !.... Sign up NOW at HecSports for the weekend racquetball tournament to be held on April 9 and 10. Cost is $8,00. Deadline for sign-ups is 

.. 
.,,.,, 
season. 
'The game Srott threw today was a tough game," said O'Connor. ''lie was tough, and he rose up to the occasion today and threw the best game of his career." 
His best game was also effi­cient one. throwing only 74 pitches in seven innings. A con­sistent and low fastball gained him two strikeouts and 10 groundouts in a game where he faced just 22 batters. 
Ust went 3-for-4 in the game, including a home run to lead off the seven-run eight inning. llis fifth round-tripjilCf in as many games, List is just two behind all-time leader and current cap­tain Jeff Wagner with -1-1 in his carper. 
Rutgers' starter Jeff Pierce (1­31 only allowed a run apiece in the first and second innings on [l.Bls by Ust and Perr.ante. After Cavey al.lowed a run in the but­tom of the third. thP lrish exploded for seven runs in tlw top of the sixth. 
After Ust's home nm to start the scoring, the rest of the runs were scornd with two outs. A fielding error at second on Stanley's at bat scored two runs while another at the shortstop position scored another two on O'Toole's a.t bat. Porzel scored another two on his second home run of the season, giving tbe Irish a 9-1 lead. 
Pcrconte's single in the sev­enth drove in Matt l\ussbaum foF the final run. 
Shiliday did not have the same luck on the mound that the Irish held all weekend, losing the nightcap 17-1 after allowing five runs in the first. Picking up the loss after pitching just 2-plus innings. Shilliday drops to 1-2 on the season. 
Chris McKeon had similar luck in relief, getting punched with eight runs in three innings of work. The Irish used a total of six relievers in the game. 
Rutgers needed just one pitch­er to earn them the win, as Jim Wilson pitclrnd a complete-game five hitter. The only Irish run came in the fourth as O'Toole's lea.doff triple allowed Porzel to score. 
Pro-Life Stations of the Cross Around the Lakes 

uoin us /t11 lhis candlelig/11 prayer se,uice as sludenls lead re/tecii()ns ()n life issues 
Meet at the Grotto 

TODAY 8pm 
Note: Postponed ifraining. Call 1-9006 for details. 
Apri and 
all will 

The Observer. SPORTS Monday, March 29, 1999 
¦ WOMEN'S LACROSSE 

Irish split two over weekend 
By GENE BRTALIK 
Sports Wricer 

The Notre Dame women's lacrossP team came into this weekend's action looking to come awav with two wins. but were happy Sunday to split thC' games with a dominating per­formance ovPr Connecticut at home, 
"We are very haµpy to get back on track. Today our gamP plan worked, we made better passes. and played tough defense," said coach C:ovnc on the Connecticut win. • 
Sunday's game spemed it would be another struggle for the Irish. as tho Huskies jumped to an early 1-0 lead. 
Al'tt>r Connecticut scored its third goal. it would be the last timP Carrie Marshall !et in another goal for another 35 minutes. Bv that time. Notrn Damr had scored 13 straight. 
Aftt>r the Irish t.ied the game at thrrt•. thev tookPd to their leading score;· sophomore Lael o·shaughnessy to lead the onslaught. O'Shaughnessy scored three of' the next four goals, then assisted on a fifth goal to build tho Irish to an 8-3 lead. 
O'Shaughnessy finished the day with six goals and three assists matching Connecticut's six goals. 
As the teams headed into half time the game seemed nearly finished as the Irish maintained an 11-3 lead, scoring two goals in the last 24 seconds of Urn half. 
In the second half. the Irish 
came oul right where they left 
off. as sophomore Kathryn 
Perrella scored two of her four 
goals in the first five minutes. 

After O'Shaughnessy scored 
the 13th goal of the run and 
her fifth of the game, 
Connecticut used two goals 
NEOTROPICAL NATURAL HISTORY 
Biology 294, 3 credits, Summer Session 
University of Notre Dame 
Course Dates, May 19 -June 16, 1999 
Spend two weeks in the field in Belize and Guatemala, Central America. 
Participants will have the opportunity to acquire knowledge ofthe neotropics, and visit national parks and reserves, caves, virgin rainforest, Mayan ruins, and the second largest coral reef in 
the world. 

~ 
~ {) :•~;~ l~>"· -.~,.j~:· 
To register, contact: Dr. William C. Hamlett B-10 Haggar Hall, UND 631-7194, hamlett.l@nd.edu 
i.____________........__a_va_il;.;.ab-'le_a_t·www.nd,edu/--sbcmc/summer course.html 
from Megan Cam µlrnll and another from Heather Levins to pull within nine or the Irish. 
The Irish took action al'tnr a timeout and held the Huskicis scoreless during the next 14 minutes. to record the 18-6 win. 
The Irish used the victory to stay above tllf~ .500 mark ·and end a two-game slide as u result from Friday's 15-12 loss to rival Ohio State. 
For lhn first lime in four games the Irish were without something they had relied on: O'Shaughnessy's scoring. 
'WHEN WE FOCUS ON 
THE GAME WE ARE 
A REALLY GOOD TEAM.' 
TRACrCOYNE 

WOMEN'S LACROSSE COACH 
She had been scoring at a clip ol' five goals a gamP, but against the Buckeyes she didn't evnn manage a shot and it. sPemed to throw off tlw offense. 
"We have many attackers who are all strong, but we were struggling to find the open player because of their aggressive defense," said Coyne. 
"On Friday we were rushed to get into our game and were never able to figure out what to do, but yesterday we pulled the ball out and looked for the open person," O'Shaughnessy said. 
The Irish and the Buckeves trade goals in the early going Friday, until Ohio State scored two straight goals to take a 6-4 lead at the half. 
The second half saw the Irish 

Iopics covered include: 
1. 
Tropical ecosystems 

2. 
How a ra.inforest functions 3, Tropical plants 


4. 
Rainforest fauna 

5. 
Tropical savannas 

6. 
Mayan civilization 


7, Maya today in relation to ecosystem management 
8. 
Coastal ecosystems: mangroves, seagrass, and coral reef 

9. 
Marine fauna and flora 

10. 
Neotropical resource management 

11. 
Ecotourism 



Total cost ofthe course is $3600, which includes tuition, all meals, lodging, transportation, entrance fees, etc., while in the field. ,,. A non-refundable deposit of $1000 is required by March 30, 1999. Field itinerary and photographs from previous excursions 
come within one goal of' the lead s1weral times. but tlrny were never able to lie up the game. Erin Anderson later scorncl two goals to put Ohio State up by l'our goals hut KMry Callahan answnrnd back with two of her own. 
As tlrn Irish foll momPntum lwginning to swing toward them. the rcfornns changed the outcome. It had seemed that a !'lag had hnnn thrown 011 tlrn Irish. but lite reforn11s had failed to notice the flag until af'tcr Marshall had cleared tlw ball resulting in discussion among the officials. After a short talk thn officials handnd the ball over lo tlw Buckeyns, taking away Notre Dam1•'s momentum and possibly a win. Kyliir,. Heade snaled tlrn ganrn with a goal 34 seconds left in the contest. 
"We were kind ol' disappoint­ed with the result dun to our rivalry with Ohio State. Thny out hustled us and scorned lo want it more." said Coyne. 
Whiln Urn gamn was a disap­po in tm en t for tlrn tnam and saw an end come lo O'Shaughnessy's strnak. 01w was kept alivn this wnnkend as Callahan upped hPr scoring streak to 20 games, dating back to last season. 
Callahan has now scornd in 27 of 28 games throughout her career. 
Another plus for the Irish was the large crowds that wcrn on hand for both ganrns. Tlrnre were times where the players could not hear C:oyne's instruc­tions from the sidelines. 
All in all, the weekend was a success for the team as it taught them many valuable lessons to use over the 1wxt nine games. 
"When we are focused on the game we are a really good team," Coyne said. 

t 

Monday, March 29, 1999 The Observer• TODAY page 19 
SLURRED SPEECH OAN SULLIVAN HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 

FOXTROT l'M off To 
8AIY•S•T. 
\ 
HA'\/£ FUN. SA'T H1To 
lc.AH6£TA MAi 01:lEll. 
WOit>IN FoR ME. 
£D6EIIIIS£. 
! 
~ 

DILBERT 
... I'M GOING INFRA.fl.ED !="ROM THE K£.'<B0ti>.RO TO MY "LINUX" BOX. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 Bid 
1 Ped1cur1sts work 34 Falsehoods on them 35 Lawyers' org. 36 Select a winner 
5 Ship's front ina9 Old Venetian sweepstakes
magistrates 37 Base before 
14 Cutlass or 98, for home
short 39 Person whose 
t 5 Architect name beginsSaarinen "Mc-," often 16 Give the slip 40 Moines 17 Sarcastic remark 41 Elvis's middle 19 Neighbor of nameNigeria 42 "Land ----!"
20 New Year"s ---­43 Word between 
21 Mystique ready and go22 Devastated 44 Hike 23 Backslide, 47 Pickup, e.g 
medically 49 Stockpiled
25 lmag1nat1on S3 Equality
26 Ouest1onna11e response 55 Epithet 28 Soak (up) 56 Actor Wallach 
E " 
1 J"05T 5ENT A 
FLAl"'\lN(; £.-1"'\All TO B!ll G,f),1E5 1 
5A"t'ING, 
RULE$! II 
57 Precise 58 Title character in 
1970's cult films 60 Corner 61 Skin softener 62 End in -­63 Propositioned 64 Civil wrong 65 Mount Olympus 
dwellers 
DOWN 
1 Radio station facility 2 Martini item 3 Ford llop 4 Opposite NNW s Leaf through 6 Brought up 7 Killer whale a Moo googai pan pan 9 Exposes, as a false claim 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10 Kind of acid 

11 Grain holder on a farm 12 Chanteuse Adams 13 Dispatch 18 Prank 22 Competed at Daytona 24 Not many 25 Blond 21 Go on and off, as a light 
29 Hand-held musical instrument 
30 Butter ser11ings 
The Observer 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
.Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
BILL AMEND 
I SM> ''BLu~·s "THEPHoN 
I'LL BE CluEt;;! MATI: ' HoME Ar ··slut's DIRTY. 
:30. __CLU£S~' 
Scorr ADAMS 
LAUNCH THE 
COl"\PEilTlONKEE.PE.R 
"LlNU~ 

31 "'What are the ?" 
32 Gratis 33 Accelerated 
path to success 37"Dick-" 38 Leave at a 
pawnshop 39-Fifth 
Avenue 41 Bordered on 42Creepy 45 Whiteness 46 Lucky charm 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Tatum O'Neal, Ike Turner, Bryilll Adams, Sam Shepard 
Happy Birthday: You'll have the energy to accomplish all that you set out to do this year. You need to focus on what you do best and refuse to let anyone stand in your way or lead you astray. The more time and effort you put into doing your own thin~ the more successful you'll be. Don t feel guilty if you have to say no to some­one askinr; for your assistance. Your numb<!rs: 3, 12, 21, 30, 39, 48 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Sud­den trips are evident. Be intent on learning through !he experiences you encounter. Your ability to deal with people will enhance your reputation and your quick wit will win atlies. 
000 
TAURUS' (April 20-May 20): You can make professional changes today. Talk to those most likely to aid you in your direction. Creative endeavors will pay off and show your talents. An ability to work witli your hilllds will be recogniu,d. 000 
GEMINI (May 21•June 20): You will be indecisive regarding your romantic partner. Too many choices will confuse you. Social activities will be beneficial. You will shine in the eyes of others. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Secret lovers will provide you with excite­ment; however, the end result may be to your disadvantage. Use yom excel­lent memory ilfld your skill with words to steer dear of conflicts. 0000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your abili­ty to correspond eloquently will bring popularity. Pleasure trips prove to be not only exciting but fruitful in terms of the new friends you'll meet. Take time to help relatives in need. 00 
VIRGO (Aug. 23•Sept. 22): You will have excellent ideas for ways of furthering your career or making money through fn.'<'-lance or starting your own business. Don't let your emotions affect yo1.1r productivity. 
00000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You can make major financial gains through your career choices today. You'll be able to deal with other prople's prob­lems. Don't let limitations set by oth­ers hold you back. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Sud­den changes regarding your financial position are possible. You can make residential moves or alterations to your living quarters, Friends will pro­vide mental stimulation. 000 
SAGITfARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): 
You will be quick with words today. Your ability to be convincing may keep you out of hot water, Do not take unnecessary risks if you are working with power tools or machinery. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
You will have new ideas for ways of making extra cash. Business ventures 
· will i'rove to be advantageous. Take the time to explain what you want done to those who work under you. 00000 AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Travel should b<' on r,our agenda.. Cultural knowledge will \,(' acquired and friendships with foreigners will develop. Your own self-awareness will open new avenues of thought. 
00 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): If you get advice quickly you will avoid some of the problems that can occur. Don't allow others to play on your 
sympathy. Act swiftly and secretively 
for best results. 0000 

The Observer is currently seeking a one--panel cartoon1s• t. This is a paid pos1t1on. Please call 1--4542 for 
more information. 
... 
48 Nouveau ~-53 Ex-Secretary Federico
50 Old defense pact 54 Alhes' foe 51 Spanish hero 
55 Farm building 
played on film by Charlton 
58 Stand at the Heston 
plate 
52 Dutch sights 59 Binge 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95c per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7·ACROSS. 

Make checks payable to: and mail to:  The Observer P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN  46556  1t  
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year  
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester  ,,,  
Name _______________________  
Address ____________________ City _______State ____ Zip______  ...  

1.,.._____...._-------·-------------•-.•---w-r--~---------•-----c--..www------------;---------------119_..___________ 

Who are tl.e contenders? 
¦ The votes are in and Primetime sits atop this year's Bookstore Basketball rankings. 
-
p. 14
PORTS 
O 
THE 
BSERVER 


¦ BASEBALL 
Irish stay atop Big East standings with big wins 
By ANTHONY BIANCO Associace Spam Ediror 
Slated tu finish this season on top or the Rig East confornnce. the Irish are making good on the promises from the 1,tart behind strong showings from its starting rotation. 
Sophomore righthander Aaron Heilman and junior lefty Tim Kalita throw back-to-back for th<' second-straight wee,kend to sweep Villanova on Saturday, 4­0 and 10-8. while junior righty Scott Cav('y pitched a two-hitter Sunday to beat Rutgers 10-1. 
The Irish lost the second game against the Scarlet Knights, 17­
1. in a game in which senior captain Alex Shilliday returned to the staring lineup after miss­ing most of March with a shoul­der injury. 
Despite the loss of Shilliday, Notre Damp, built an 11-game winning streak through Sunday's first game behind excellent pitching from Heilman and Kalila. 
"Aaron and Tim have been outstanding throughout their careers." said assistant coach and pitching coordinator Brian O'Connor. "I expected nothing less in the past few weeks." 
Heilman {4-1) has been near perfect during the stretch with a 3-0 record behind a 1.57 ERA. 
¦ MEN'S LACROSSE 
Saturday against the Wildcats. he threw all seven innings for the Irish for the complete game shutout. He fanned eight batters and allowed five hits in Saturday's 95-pitch outing. 
With no runs to 1<:ecp ahead nf, the Irish lineup went to work to scon" the contP.st's only runs. Shortstop Brant Ust sent Steve Stanley home in the first inning after hilting into a sure double­play ball that second baseman Matt Longo dropped on the flick­er to second. 
Sophomore Ben Cooke added two in the second inning on a bases-loaded single to right-cen­ter field. Cooke added his third RBI of the game in the fourth on a hit-and-run single that drove in '\fatt Strir.kroth. 
Cooke took advantage of an injury-spotted Irish lineup to get a starting spot this weekend in his most productive outings. 
Picking up three RBIs in the first game, the sophomore right­fielder also drilled a two-out drive to centerfield that was mis­played in the first game against Rutgers in the second inning. That set up the RBI situation for Jeff Perconte, who drove in Cooke for the second Irish run of that game. 
"We had a lot of injuries to fill 
see BASEBALL/ page 18 


The Observer/Michelle Keefe 

The Notre Dame baseball team swept Big East rival Villanova over the weekend, solidifying their grip on the top spot in the conference standings. 
¦ SOFTBALL 
Dusseau leads ND past Hobart 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Associate Sports Editor 
After a back-and-forth first half. where the Irish battled to a 5-4 lead, two quick second-half goals by Irish co-captain Chris Dusseau put the game out of reach as the Notre Dame men's lacrosse team defeated the Hobart Statesmen, 10-8. 
Dusseau benefited from smooth passing by teammates 
-
Tom Glatzel and David Ulrich. Dusseau's first goal of the game came 17 seconds into the second half. Excellent ball movement by the attack unit resulted in 
·ousseau breaking free and receiving a well-timed pass from Glatzel. 
Dusseau's second goal came less than two minutes later. Ulrich found Dusseau cutting sharply across the crease and the senior co-captain flipped the shot past Hobart goalie Greg Prosser. 
Ulrich's assist gave him 18 on the year and increased his team-leading point total to 26 on the vear. 
"David Ulrich and Tom Glatzel played awesome today," Dussoau said. "Those guys were getting free and getting me some open looks so I ended up putt,~ng a few in the back of the net. 
ln addition to Dusscau, Steve" Bishko, Todd Ulrich and Glatzel all had two goals. 

Todd Ulrich, David's twin brother, led the team in points on the day with five. 
The first half saw Hobart con­trol the ball for most of the half', giving the Irish very few good looks on the offensive end. The Statesmen jumped out to an early 1-0 lead off of a goal by Chuck Wilbur. 

The Irish, however, struck back to tie the game a mere eight seconds later. David Ulrich 
see LAX/ page 1 6 
Notre Dame remains undefeated at home 
By MATT OLIVA 
Sporrs Writer 
The Notre Dame women's softball team won four games this weekend, improving its record to 17-11 on the year and 4-0 at home. 
The Irish used a well-bal­anced attack to defeat Toledo twice on Saturday and Bowling Green twice on Sunday. 
On Saturday, the Irish used 20 hits to shut out Toledo in both games. They won the first game 9-0, as Mel Alkire picked up her third victory. Amy Laboe also hit her third home run of the year in the first game. 
In the second game, the Irish defeated the Rockets 10­0. 
Freshman pitcher Michelle Moschel picked up her first collegiate win after finishing the last three .innings in relief ot' Angela Bessolo. Kristy Kassotis was credited with the loss for Toledo. 
Laboe led the Irish hitting attack with five RBIs on the day. Lizzy Lemire and .Jarrah Myers each had three RBIs apiece. 
"Our bats were tearing it 
up," said head coach Liz Miller. "Everyone was hitting the ball hard and that was the key for us." 
On Sunday, the Irish defeat­ed Bowling Green in two games that came down to the last inning. They were able to knock off the Falcons in the first game 4-3. Moschcl picked up her second victory after relieving starter Bessolo in the seventh inning. 
Bowling Green took an early 2-0 lead in the top of the sec­ond on a pair of HBI singles. Angie Grimmer gave the Irish the lead, when she hit a two­out, bases loaded double into leftfield, scoring three runs. The Falcons came back to tie up the game at 3-3 in the top of the seventh. 
Then Laboe hit a leadoff double in the bottom of the seventh and moved to third on a wild pitch. One batter later, Lemire stepped to the plate and hit a sacrifice fly to left field that was deep enough to score Laboe from third and wrap up the victory for the Irish. 
"Grimmer was the hero of the day," said Miller. "She 
see SOFTBALL/ page I7 
at Purdue, 

vs. Butler,
flf' 
April 5, 2 p.m. '·,::;::)
SPORTS 

Tomorrow, 3 p.m . Men's Baseball
~ 
vs. Wisconsin-Milwaukee,
ATA 
Tomorrow, 5 p.m. 

-
vs. Illinois, 

~ 
at Miami, Wednesday, 3:30 p.m. Friday, 7 p.m. 
~ •
GLANCE 







