
Smells like dorm spirit 
Do or die 
Alumni and Badin halls are 
Men ·s soccer squares offtoday at Seton Hall in 
Wednesday
profiled in the first ofa series examining dorm 
a must-win game to qualify for the Big East 
loyalty and allegience. 
tournament. 
NOVEMBER 3,
Scene . page 12-13 
Sports . page 19 
1999 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIII NO. 44 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


District attorney: Police justified in shooting DuBose 
KPating was also cleared of' wrongdo­Those documirnts show that the 
Associated Press 
ing when he l'atally shol a drunken shooting stemmed from a call of a bur­man who ruslrnd at him waving four glary by a San Diego resident who told
SAN DIEGO 

knives, said Gayle Falkenthal, a authorities he found DuBose sleeping
Two officnrs who fatally shot former 
spokeswoman l'or the district attorney. in his house. When officers arrived,
pro football playBr Dnnwtrius DuBmm 
San Diego police chief David DuBose initially complied with ques­
during a confrontation were legally 
Bejarano agreed with the district attor­tions but began to walk away when
j11slificd bncaus,i 

ney's lindings. they tried tu place handcuffs on him,
tlwy l"Part'rl Urn ath­
"I believe that the district ailornev's Officer Keating told investigators. 
1nl.P was going to 
rindings am correct, and that the ohi­After Wills sprayed DuBose with
attack tlwm, thll 
ccrs involved in the shooting were jus­Mace, the situation quickly escalated.
district attornny 
tified in thf'ir actions," Bejarano said. DuBose ran awav from the officers as
said Mondav. 
DuBose's relatives, who have filed a they tried to hi°ndcuff him. Keating
"Tlw iif'f'ici•rs 
wrongful death lawsuit in federal coun jumped on his back, but was thrown
rPally did11'l have a against the two officers, wcrnn't sur­off.
rhnict!," said 
prised with the findings. The officers chased DuBose, corner­
District Attorrwy 
"They were disappointed, but not ing him outside a corner store on
Paul Plingst. "TIH1y DuBose 
shocked," family attorney Brian Mission Boulevard, a busy street a
had to shoot." 
Watkins said. block off the ocean.
DullosP, 28, a l'or-
The shooting prompted a series of "This guy was really big. And the 
nwr play1ir for Tampa Bay Buccaneers 
protests and accusations of racial bias officers weren't small either, but they
and Notrn Danw. was advancing on Lim 
against the police department because were definitely losing," witness Henry
officPrs with a martial arls weapons 
OuBose was black and the two officers Parra, a San Francisco police depart­
when tlwy shot him 12 times, Chief 
are white. ment lieutenant, told police. 
David lhijarano said in a statoment. 
Pfingst posted on the Internet 368 Officers said DuBose charged at them
Officnrs Timothy Keating and nobert 
pages of documents, including witness after he took away their nunchukas, a
Wills. who havn bnPn on desk duty 
statements and testimony from the two martial arts weapon of two hard plas­
sinrn tlw .I uly 24 shooting, will not face 

police officers. 

criminal ('.harges. Two y,rnrs ago, 
Arinze: Spread Gospel message 
By ERIN PIROUTEK 
News Wrircr 
Tlw Gnspnl is a message tho wlwh! world badly ,weds, said Cardinal Franch; Arinze, in his ltidurti, "Message or tlw Gospel to a Hdigiously Pluralistic World at the Thrnshold of' the Third Milln1111ium." 
"Two-thirds of humanity do nut know Christ. or do not hdievn iu him -or at least not ynt," said Arinze, noting the Church's call to nvangelization. 
The fundamnntal message or .lnsus Christ applies lo a plural­istically rnligious world, accord­ing to the cardinal. 
Many nou-Christian religions, such as .Judaism. Buddhism. llinduism and traditional or tribal bdiels am ways of life that havn guided humans for cen­turies. 
"The Church believes the Cospnl's plan of' salvation includns not only Christians but .lows. Muslims, Hindus and ollwr believer,; as well," Arinzo said. 
lln nmphasizl'd that sprPading tlw Cospel message does uot indud<! imposing bdief' in Jesus Christ on anyone. 
No one shou Id use force on matt.ers of consciencn, said Arinze, however. without Jesus Christ. human history remains fundamentally unexplained. 
Thn cuntral message of the Gosp,il of' .Jesus Christ deals with Lim vertical dimension of man's relation to God. 
"When people accept thBy must bt1 God-oriented," he sa.id. 
see CARDINAL/page 4 

see DUBOSE/page 4 

Sullivan to receive Notre Dame Award 
on a basketball and football
By KYLE ANDREWS 

scholarship. After he lost the 
:--Jews Writer 

scholarship because of a foot 
injury, he worked his way
A earn pus ceremony today through school, graduating in will honor Reverend Leon 
1943. Sullivan with the 1999 Notre 
Later, he moved to New York, Dame Award for international 
and served as assistant minis­
humanitarian service. Pastor 

ter in the Abysinnian Baptistemeritus of the Zion Baptist Church while attending Union Church in Philadelphia, 
Theological Seminary. While Sullivan is honored for his lead­receiving a master's degreeership in civil rights. f r o m Sullivan has been active in 
c o I u m b i a Past 
civil rights movements in both 

University, Winners
New York and Philadelphia, he participat­organizing boycotts, programs ed in the civil . Jimmy & 
and writing codes of conduct 

rights move-Rosalynn Carter
for U.S. businesses. His involve­

ment starting ment in South Africa's anti­in the city. . Mother apartheid struggle led him to 
He left New Theresa 
write the Sullivan Principles in 

York to . Jean Vanier
1977, which for 10 years 

become pas-served as a code of conduct for 
tor of . Helen Suzman 
U.S. companies that did busi­

P h i Ia d e I -. John Hume 
ness in South Africa. phia's Zion "I.eon Sullivan's struggle B a P t i s t . Cardinal against racial prejudice and 
Church in Vinko Puljic
economic injustice has been 1950. There lifelong, exemplary and inspir­he became ing," said University president an intogralPather Edward Mallov in a 
figure in the civil rights move­statement announcin·g the 
m en t, organizing boycottsaward. "In honoring his life against discriminating compa­and work, we hope to recommit nies and starting the ourselves to the same struggle." Opportunities Industrialization 
Presently, Sullivan is presi­Centers, a training programdent of 'the International that has now grown interna­Foundation for Education and tionally. In 1971, Sullivan Self-Help, a group that aims to 
became the first African encourage democracy and American to join the General bring skilled workers to devel­Motors board. oping countries. The award will be given at 
Born Oct. 16, 1922, in West 7:30 p.m. tonight in the Jordan Virginia, Sullivan went to West Aurlitorium of the College of Virginia State College in 1931) Business Administration. 

...r---------------------­
~ 
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Wednesday, November 3, 1999 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Club Car tragedy 

Braving the biting coid last night ou my way home from a class-required movie, I was joined by another girl from my dorm. I was immediately surprised that she was actually walking with me because for the past several weeks she has had her own gulf cart to take her from one campus spot to the next. As she struggled with her crutches I asked her what had happened to the racy Club Car she used to drive. 
"It was stolen," she replied, rather matter-of­factly. 


Maureen

Never before had I been subjected to the secret Smithe underworld of golf' cart theft on the Notre Dame campus, and my response Copy Editor was utter disbelief. Why would someone steal a golf cart from a disabled per­son? In my mind, it was worse than taking candy from a baby. Here is this perfectly sweet girl who happened to hurt her leg dur­ing dorm football practice. After surgery and physical therapy, she really depended on the cart to take her around campus. I failed to find the thrill in stealing something that was so necessary. 
When I asked her why the Office of Students With Disabilities did not grant her another Club Car, I was stunned yet again with her answer. 
"Well, it had been stolen already once before, and I felt bad asking for another one, so I just decided to stick with my crutches," she pronounced. 
Stolen once before??? Now my mind was really racing. The fact that her cart had been stolen twice meant that there was a real mar­ket on campus for these stolen rides. How could these thieves who are so severely lack­ing in morals have such a wide knowledge of golf cart mechanics? As I tried to figure out the logistics of the whole operation, my dorm­mate cut in again. 
"I guess they thought it was a football play­er's cart," she suggested. 
Yet another shock to my brain. First of all, I never even knew that football players had the luxury of golf carts, and secondly, why would someone want to steal a cart from one of Notre Dame's finest?? These thieves have mysterious motivations. 

My confusion reached its limit. I didn't think anyone ever stole much from students here. Last year my bracelet and ring were taken from a locker in Rolfs. and supposedly an occasional hike is swiped from the racks, but the thought of students stealing golf carts seemed ridiculous. Where on this campus could you possibly park a stolen golf cart? There aren't many of them around, and those that I see are always triple chained. I can't think of any place on campus that could safe­ly conceal an assailant's newly confiscated toy. 
So, at this moment I am still confused, my dormmate still struggles with her crutches and some merciless thief still zips across campus on his stolen wheels. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of11ie Observer. 


TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Bill Uniowski Julie Gillespie Maureen Smithe Graphics Marr Bunda Arny Crownover 
Sports Production 
Brian Kessler 
Rachael Protzman Viewpoint Lab Tech Brian Hobbins Betsy Storey 

TI,c Obs.:mr (USPS 599 2-4000) i.s publi,hcd Monday chrough Friday excepr during e"'1m and vac,uon period.<. The Obse.nter is a member of rhe Associated Prc,s, All reproduction rights ar, r"'crved. 
THIS WEEK IN SOUTH BEND 
Wednesday  Thursday  
. Country Partner Dance  . Salsa Dance Lessons:  
lessons: North Liberty  Club Landing; 8:30 to 9 p.m.  
Community Buj]ding;  . Planet Patrol:  
North Liberty, 8 to 9 p.m.  Planetarium and Space  
. Symphony: Valparaiso  Museum; Mishawaka,  
University; Valparaiso,  6:30 p.m.  
7:30 p.m.  
OUTSIDE THE DOME  

Harvard apparel maker to name plant locations 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 
Harvard University's second­largest licensed apparel manufactur­er has announced that it will be the first company to comply with the university's new full disclosure poli­cy. 
Last spring, in response to student demands that Harvard cease doing business with manufacturers that use sweatshops, university officials announced their intention to requirn all manufacturers to reveal which factories they use for apparel. 
Some members of Harvard's Progressive Student Labor Movement (PSLM) organized a group called Students Against Sweatshops (SAS), which tapped into a national movement last year to force univer­sities to remove their business from sweatshops. 
Last Wednesday, Gear for Sports, 
College group sues Web bookst?re 
DURHAM, N.C. 

The National Association of College Stores alleges that Varsitybooks.com has been misleading students about potential online savings. In the midst of its ini­tial public stock offering, the nation's first online text­book retailer is now fighting to make sure its stock does not flatline when it hits the market. In a suit filed at 10 a.m. Monday by the National Association of College Stores, Inc., Varsitybooks.com has been accused of making false and-misleading advertising claims about its discounts and on-campus stores' pricing schemes. NACS, an organization of 3,000 col­
• lege bookstores, including Duke University Stores and The Book Exchange in Durham, is seeking an injunc­tion against the site for its insistence that it offers texts at 40 percent below the "suggested price." NACS officials say this price standard does not exist in the college textbook market and that the Web site's prices only rarely beat on-campus stores by 40 percent. "We want them to stop making claims about a suggested price," said Cynthia D'Angelo, senior associate execu­tive director of NACS. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Wednesday Thursday 
Fridal[ 
f 

Saturday -Sunday
·­

~,~,~~~~ ~ 
Showe£s T-stOfms Rain Flum/iS Snow Ice Sunny Via ASS()(;ia,ed Prt!sS Graphblret 
'The event is important because they 're starting a movement and signaling to others that this is the way things are moving"' 
Nitzan Shoshan PSLM member 

Harvard's second largest licensed apparel manufacturer, announced that it will release its factory loca­tions out of a concern for human rights. 
According to a press release from Gear for Sports, the company will disclose a full list of factories it uses to manufacture collegiate clothingon Jan. 10, 2000. 
Gear for Sports' director of global human rights compliance John 
~ ~ 
Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 

Brown prof discusses teaching style 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. 

As every student knows, professors play critical roles in determining students' course experiences. With its reputation as an innovative university, Brown has its own collection of professors with ingenious teaching styles. "When you analyze a joke, it stops being funny," said professor of classics David Konstan, who is teaching "Ancient Comedy and Its Influence" this semester. The course includes course packets that incorporate screenplays of sitcoms such as "Friends" and "Seinfeld." "He jumps around on the stage," said freshman Ben Asriel. "He really brings the comedy part into life." Asriel said he believes that when pro­fessors compare the material to topics that students are more familiar with, students are able to relate more to the course itself. According to Konstan, come­dy gives him additional room. "Yeah, I tell jokes in class. I can't help it, they occur to me," Konstan said. "What's a joke, really? It's a way of seeing how things mesh, when you least expect them to," he said. "Jokes are tinv revelations about the connections between things.'; 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, Nov. 3. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

Atlanta  56  36  Las Vegas  81  51  Portland  58  40  
Baltimore  50  27  Memphis  64  40  Sacramento  71  51  
Boston  65  47  Milwaukee  44  33  St. Louis  71  58  
Chicago  46  29  New Yon<  57  54  Tampa  57  40  
Houston  66  47  Philadelphia  55  29  Wash DC  52  47  

Friday 
. Quilt Exhibit: Lakeland Art Associaiton; Warsaw. 
11 :30 a.m. to 4:30 p.rn. 
. AFine Sampling: South Bend Regional Museum of Art; 5 to 7 p.m. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Joerger said the company needs time to create a workable database to track which factory manufactures which universities' apparel. 
PSLM lauded the move, while pointing out that it is only the first step. 
"Disclosure is the first and easiest step," said PSLM member senior Nitzan Shoshan. "Contractors are beginning to realize that disclosure is inevitable." 
He added that Gear for Sports' dis­closure could prompt other manu­facturers to disclose their factory locations. 
"The event is important because they're starting a movement and sig­naling to others that this is the way things are moving," Shoshan said. 
University attorney Allan Ryan Jr. said this step is largely a result of the SAS movement. 
Saturday 
. Women's Alliance Conference: Century Center; 8 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. 
. Hong's USA Taekwondo Universal Championship: 
Century Center Convention Hall 8; 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. 

1 l
Wednesday, November 3, 1999 7he Observer . LOCAL NEWS page 3 
l 

Incumbents reign in area mayoral elections 
Jop KPrnan received in win­By JACK COLWELL 
ning four years ago and the South llcnd Tribune 
76.5 pt1rce11t Kernan amassed 
in I 991. 
SOUTII BEND But Kernau. the former 

Mayor Stuplwn Luocke won Oemocralic mayor who now is big Ttrnsday, staving of'f ttw lieutenant governor, • ran l'irsl serious llcpuhlican chal­against hapless Republican lnngn to Democratic control of challPngers who had scant tlw mayor's of'fic<! in a dozon runding and little support. 
years. even from their own party. lln t·.a!lml I.Im victory "a posi­Luccke's victory ranks at tivP rPport card" !'or tlw city, l11ast as impressive because he as w1dl as for himself. facBd in Bradley a challenger 
1.w•rkn said his capturo of' who wagod a vigorous cam­(18 1rnrccnt ol' tlrn vote is an pai.gn anti had morr. funding i11dicalio11 that South B1111tl and party support. 
rPsid1HllS agro(' with his posi­The mayor said be thought livc view or wbcrn Lb11 city is he hall gained momentum as hnadcd, not lhn dismal por­the campaign headed toward trayal of city conditions prn­tlrn finish, ln part dun to get­s1in tnd by H11publica11 chal­ling out his own "positiv<1" lnngt'r Stcvf'n Bradlny. message and also bneaus,~ 
"I truly was ups1!t at tho way Bradley's contentions began to :\~r. ,_Bradlny ~orlrayntl thu wear thin and i>n rejected, ntv. Lunckn s111cl. EarliHr. the rnavor said, hn 
llut he notPd that Bradley was conn\rned bt1~:ause it had always had b1i1in friendly per­seemed that "fiverything that sonally aftnr thnir frnqunnt could go wrong did go wrong." disagrn1HnP11ts at joint appear­lie referred in particular to 
ances. something no amount of' cam­Bradlny was gracious in con­paign planning could have Cllssion. evnr envisioned in advance ­
"I think it's good for South the .lune auto accident in Bnnd to han~ had a real race which the police chief ran into this yPar," Bradley said. 11.e a parked car after drinking. 
said lw had brought uµ issues Although he immediately tlw citv rweded to debate. removed the chief from the top The ·mayor rncBiwid word of police post, Luecke said the 
his viclorv at his home. sur­prosecutor's long investigation rou11d1!d l;y family rrnirnb,~rs. of tlrn incident kept him from Totals directly from µoiling taking f'inal action and plarns rnnfirmPd llw big win enabled Bradley to hammer for tlrn mayor within a few away at thn situation. 
LOCAL MAYORAL 

¦¦F 9 I II '. "l!IWIUl:tf»·
RESULTS 
•-•• ;· IIWC#ili#IS-: 
WIIMA 1Ull!Wlml171ifill 

South Bend: Mishawaka: 
, h.,fi 

Elkhart: Goshen: 
,I 

KEY: bold -incumbent, -republican, -democrat 
AMY CROWNOVER/The Observer 

minultis al'll\r Lim µoils closod. Luecke agreed that Bradley 
bration at the MH Falcon Club, member and before that with administration as he plans for 
Tlw 68 (Hll'C(1nt showing was was hand1id an opportunity ­
the mayor told his supporters citizen involvement. a his first full four-year term. 
arhiPv11d wlth a votnr turnout fair game -and took full 
that he was particularly happy "This is a community that is But he said he will seek ideas 
slightly highnr than recorded advantagn of it. 
with the way South Bend resi­alive and well with citirnn on new approaches, with "a 
four years ago. But appointment of new 
dents have been "grabbing involvement," Luecke said. brand new start for us."
l'nrcnntages much smallnr ChiHf Larry Bennett µroved 
hold of their neighborhoods." "And that is what we are 
than Lwii:kf' achilwPtl arn ort popular and seems to havn put 
Luecke has benn stressing going to ride into the next cen­
tPrmf'd landslid11s. the police leadership issun to 
neighborhoods since before tury." This story was reprinted
Tlrn pnrcentagn still was 
rest. Luecke said. the neighborhood issue was The mayor said he planned with the permission of the 
lwlow tlw rncord 82.2 percnnt 
At a joyous Democratic cele-cool. doing so as a City Council no immediate changes in his South Bend Tribune. 
THE WOMEN'S RESOURCE CENTER 
(!)pen J/oa4e, 
~Ju,,,d d/Joo;,, .Pa~ 
'W~,N~3 f-7p.m, 
Refreshments will be served. Free t-shirts and mugs. Check out our numerous informational resources. 
•1 myself have never been able to find out precisely what feminis'." is: 
I only know that people call me a feminist whenever I express sentiments that differentiate me from a doormat .. ." -Rebecca West 



Visit the 
Writing 
Center 
The Notre Dame Writing Center 

is dedicated to helping all students improve their writing. Writing tutors h~lp student~'with writin!l projects at any stage during the writing process. From unde_rstand1ng the assignment, to organizing materials, to critiquing that "final' draft, we are here to guide you through the process. 
In helping you improve your papers, we will read your paper with you, talk about your ideas, and otter informed comments. We're available to help no matter "'fhat ~tage of the proc~ss you are at. whether selecting a topic, shaping your argument, work111g with sources, figunng out your audience. or revising your paper. 
Because our goal is to help you learn how to improve your own writing~ we do not proof!ead,edit, or fix your grammar. But we will help teach you how to do these things, and work with you on any other concerns you may have. We do not evaluate, grade, or take the place of regular coursework. We are a resource for helping you to express your ideas more clearly and effectively. 
Locations Times 
Alumni Hall Sun-Thurs 7-10 p.rh. Knott Hall Sun-Thurs 7-10 p,m. Center for Social Mon, Weds, Thurs 
Concerns 7-10 p.m. DeBartolo BO 12 Mon-Thurs 1-4 p.m. 
(basement) 
Visit us on the web at: http://www.nd.edu/~writing 


Visit us before you get overwhelmed! 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, November 3, 1999 
Cardinal 
continued from page 1 

"Then we have the fundamental orientation religion should give." 
The horizontal dimension of religion relates to relationships with.one's neighbor. 
"Christ's injunction of brother­ly love is unmistakable," said Arinze. 
The Christian who neglects his duties to his neighbor jeopar­dizes his salvation. he said. 
"If the 

whole world 
"Forgiveness and are meant for

decided to 
reconciliation are signs all," he said. 

follow the 
However,

golden rule ofspiritual strength, not 
despite the

for two 
weakness." necessity for

weeks, the 
inter-religious

world would 
dialogue, the

be a small Cardinal Francis Arinze 
paradise ... the people who sell keys would be out of business," noted Arinze with a smile. 
Two world wars, the l lolocaust. terrorism and ethnic cleansing arc indications that humanity must find an accept­able way of ironing out differ­ences. 
"Forgiveness and reconcilia­tion are signs of spiritual strength, not weakness." said Arinze, noting the Christian doc­trine of repaying evil with good. 
"Inter-religious cooperation is best undertaken when it focuses on specific projects," said Arinze, citing respect for the dignity of human life as one example. 
"The Church does not seek to impose this belief !against abor­tion, infanticide, and euthana­sia] on others, but to share it and seek agreement," said 
DuBose 
continued from page 1 
tic sticks joined by a short chain of rope. 
"He was rolling them in his hands like he was going to come and do damage to us, like he was going to hurt us with those nunchakus," Keating told homicide investigators. " ... I yelled at him 'drop the sticks!' He toDk another step and I began firing at him." 
An autopsy report showed 
Arinze. 
"Human life is sacred from its beginning -it involves the cre­ative action of God and is in a special relationship with God," he said. 
Additionally, the Gospel of Jesus Christ shows great Jove for the poor and the downtroddPn. from which is a key issue for all religions. 
The Church has sought to cul­tivute solidarity -the basic unity of the human race, accord­ing to ArinZP. 
"Solidar.ity teaches the rich 
that the goods 
of this world 
cardinal cau­tioned that it is not without 

risk. -­
Relativism -the belief that one religion is good as another -is one of the greatest dan­gers. The Church rejects rela­tivism, he said, because it may lead to the implicit dPnial of objective truth. 
"Jesus Christ is the Way. the Truth, and thP Life," empha­sized Arinze. 
Syncretism -the desire to form one religion out of many ­is another concern. 
"Such a religion of compro­mises is a religion of nobody and cannot be a good guide to any­body," Arinze said. 
Arinze's lecture was spon­sored by the theology depart­ment with support from the Henkels lecture series. 
Laura Petelle contributed to this report. 
that DuBose had traces of the drug Ecstasy, cocaine and alco­hol in his blood at the time. 
The shooting will now be reviewed by the Police Department's internal affairs unit and San Diego's Citizen Review Board on Police Practices, Bejarano said. 
DuBose, a native of Seattle, was a linebacker for ~otre Dame. After graduating, he was drafted in 1993 by the Buccaneers and played four seasons. His football career ended in 1997 and he took up beach volleyball. 



GSU seeks more placeinent help 
By CHRISTINE KRALY Associate News Editor 
Graduate Student Union {CSU) members discussed the need for more help in career placement and diversity pro­grams in their meeting Tuesday night. 
GSU president Maria Canalus told union members of a meet: ing she had with Russell Kitchner, associate director of Graduate Career Services, regarding the need for gradu­ate interest in t;areer and placPm<mt service programs. 
"[The career and placement group provides] services to help graduate students get jobs," said Jacob Heidenreich, GSU vice president. Heidenreich will sit on an ad hoc committee established to help promote graduate cooperation and interest in career and place­ment services. 
"We're looking for a little ere-a.tivity as well." Heidenreich added, asking members for vol­unteers for the committee. 
Buman Diversity Committee chair Paige Dow told members of plans to celebrate diversity with programs such as the upcoming Martin Luther King Week and Christmas in April. 
Member Beth Caniglia sug­gested that diversity services be centered morP on campus rather than on help services like Christmas in April, which is an otT-campus service program. She highlighted a human and gender diversity conference she lwlped organized a few years ago. 
Canalas also updated mem­bers on the student advantage card, which offers college stu­dents discounts on services from stores and restaurants. The card, Canalas said, is "somewhat of a privacy issue" since the organization's con­tract requests student home and campus addresses. 
Canalas said James Powell, associate dean for the graduate school, now has the contract under consideration. 
Caniglia, the GSU's Kaneb Center representative, remind­ed union members of the ser­vices the Center provides for grad students. She reminded members to use the Center's library, which holds approxi­mately 2,000 volumes and highlighted an interest in devel­oping some sort of training pro­gram on campus for graduate students who want to go on to teach, 
The members voted to pass amendments to the GSU consti­tution. These included an offi­cial acknowledgement of the union's University Village's non-voting representative. 
The members also voted to appoint a systems administra­tor for the GSU office. The administrator would oversee and maintain the technological procPsses within the office. 

Psych society honors SMC prof 
By KATIE MILLER 
News Writer 
The National Honor Society in psychology honored Rebecca Stoddart, professor of psychology at Saint Mary's, as president of Psi Chi, the world's largest national honor society. 
Stoddart said that Saint Mary's will benefit from hav­ing the president of Psi Chi on staff. "I know I've brought more visibility to the depart­ment, and more students and faculty are participating," she said. 

"Our mission is to encour­age ex<.;ellence in psy<.;hology. Psi Chi has so much to offer students," Stoddart said. "Fifteen students will be inducted into Psi Chi on Friday." 
Affiliated with the American Psychology Association and a member of the Association of College Honor Societies, Psi Chi rec­ognizes member's achieve­ments and offers long-term rewards. Members of Psi Chi receive publishing opportuni­ties, participate in summer internships and projects at their schools as well as other colleges and unive·rsities, and present research projects. 
Stoddart was inducted into Psi Chi as a student at Pennsylvania State where she received her bachelor's degree in psychology. She then went on to receive a master's degree and a doc­torate from Southern Illinois University. Since 1979, Stoddart has been a profes­sor at Saint Mary's where she has earned the Maria Pieta Teaching Award, Lilly Faculty Open Friendship, SIS­T AR Award and many research and teaching grants. 



Call 4-4023 for a chance to win a $25 gift certificate to Meijer 
HELP THE RECYCLIN' !RISH SOLVE A MARKETING RESEARCH PROBLEM 

--7 
l 
I 
l

orld 
I 
Wednesday, November .1, 1999 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Police arrest activists to protect pope's visit 
NEW DEi.Iii, India 

l'olic1i Oil Tutlsday arrnsleu ninP llinuu activists to avoid any trouble during Popp John Paul [J's visil lhis wnok, United News of' India nows agnncy said. The group bolong1, to Shiv Sena. an ally of' govnrning Hindu nation­aJi!.;t Bharnliyu .lauata Party. UNI said the mil­itants wcr(i arrested on brnach or tlrn pnace rlmrgns. Among tlwm was .lai Bhagwan Cool, tho Now Dolhi statfl .loader ol' Shiv Sena. They would be rdeasml aftnr the pope's visit. The pope is visiling N('W Drlhi Friday through Monday Lo formally close the Asian Synod of Bishops and rPlnase a documnnl on ttrn status and future of' Llw church. llti will also meet with political and rnligious loaders and to cul­t'liratt' Mass. 
Gillete releases revolutionary 
hair-removal cream 
Nl!WYOHK 

Tlrny pluck, thny bleach, Lh<'y twcwzn. Tlwy USP hot wax, derlric 1·u1TPnt and las1irs. Some nv,in shav11 daily. /\ml still thn hair com11s lla!'k. About onP in six t\111nrican women has 1'11011gli facial hair that tlwy rnmove it at least Ollf'P a wPek. Now, GilleL!li C:o., tlw world's lligg1isl mauufaf'lun•r ol' razors, anrl pharma­!'.l'Utiral makl'r Bristol-MyPrs Squibb Co. have d1:wlopPd tlw l'irst prnscripLion cream that slops tlw growth of f'acial hair in women. Tile drug rnuld win Food and Drug Administration approval as narly as nnxl ynar. Vaniqa (pro­nount·Pd van-ih-KAII) is applied to the face likP a moisturizt\r twice a day. It works by lllol'king tlw nnzym11 that makos hair grow. It 111usl lw wwd rogularly or hair growth will rnsunw. StudiPs show it lwlps most women and !ms no major sid,i pffnrts. 
Air Transport Association seeks pet air travel rights 
WASIIINGTON 

Dngs, t'als and 0Lh1T pnts that fly in airplane cargo arPas dPsl'rVI' slrongnr protections againsl rough handling, tempnralure nxtn~nws and oxygen cl11plntion, some law­makm·s and nnimal advocattis sav. The airlinl' industry says proposed rww pr;>lnctions am u1111ncPssarv and burdPnsomn. Michanl Was!'om, dir;1ctor ol' gov1\r11m,rnt affairs for tlw Air Transport Association. predictPd that somP airli1ws would "simply stnp accepting livl' animals" ratlwr than increase training of lmggagi• ha111lll'rs, adjusl climate control on airpla1ws and l'acn grnaLPr legal liability in cas11sonwlhing gons wrong. 
¦tmf.Mlift&JW1& .--
AMEx:

Dow 
804.52 -0.45

JONES 
Nasdaq:

10,581.80 2%R.08 
+IJ.98 

JJ 
NYSE: 
618.46 -J.26 

S&P S0O: Com1msi1c 
Volume:
1347.74

-66.70 -6.38 18,794,163,611 VOLUME LEADERS 
CC2MPANY IH'kElt ''11 Sl!,\N\et I PAIN nus·r 
TYCO INTI.!. Ill ·1·v, · +ill..Sal -.-.1.7475 39.;ii llfl 1.<:0Ml'Lf I I I\ l>J.U. +I.UN +O.HOO .J. I 9 M!{"l!OSi)l"r(·rrnii M'-;J"I" +0.20 -ttUHSO 92.:i.lt SUN MlCllU\VSH.M SUNW •ll,ZA -U.Z-175 IOJ.69 lll{t\U.lCUlll' OKCl. -1-.i.51 +LK12:) .'l:too INTI!. COHI' INTC + J.1)7 + 1.5000 77 ~o NfXTEI. COM"1-A NXTI +!UlH t0.067.5 MJ.Ktt i'.i.'rrit:l)S\'STf:MS ,:st.."l) +OJh, +0.62.:liO 1.U,O C(JM!'ALJ.Ct>t,..tf'l11'Ul t'J'<l .J.1)4 .0,3750 19.00 IJSLNt:r IN( t>Sl.N ,1,,(1'U6 +6.J 725 I 5.~l) 
COMPILED FH0M THE OHSEHVER WIRE SERVICES page S 

AFP Photo 

A "disgruntled" employee opened fire in the Xerox office where he works tuesday, killing seven co-workers. At press time, copier repairman Byran Uese~i, a Xerox veteran is suspected of the shooting. Shown above Is the scene at the office shortly after the shooting. 
Suspect found in Xerox shooting 
As,odated Press 

IIONOLULU 
In the latest outburst of workplace violence, a Xerox copier repairman­shot and killed seven co­workers in his of'ficn build­ing Tuesday morning, authorities said. 
lie surrendered after a five-hour arnrnd standoff with police. Police believe Byran Ucsugi, a 15-year Xerox employee, shot seven fellow copier tcchni­cians at about 8 a.m. 11 
p.m. EST] before l1ecing in a company van with a gun. 
U.S. develops atrocity-avoidance plan 
As,ociated Press 

WASlllNGTON 
The U.S. government and others want to figure out where the next atrocities might happen in the world -then try to head them off. 
Two high-level offidals from the State Department, Harold llongju Koh and David Scheffer briefed reportors Tuesday on lhe idea of set­
t.i ng up an intiirnational system to prevent genocide, mass killings and other atrocities that keep repeating themsdves around the world. 
"I think what everybody.is saying is that we are sir.k of dealing with this", Koh, assistant secretary of state for democracy, human rights and labor, also said in a separate interview. 
lie eventually stotiped several miles away in a leafy, residential neighbor­hood. Police cordoned off the neighborhood and began negotiating with him about two hours later. 
Some live hours after the shooting hogan, Uesugi emerged f'rom the van, walked to the back of' the vehicle with his hands raised and then fell down on the ground. I Iis brother had helped in the negotia­tions. 
SWAT teams r.aced toward him with autbmai,­ic weapons drawn. No shots were heard and no 
"The good news is that this is a very important starting point." 
Koh said the starting point was a two-day State Department confer­ence last week of diplomats, human rights workers and academics from 10 nations and the Vatican. 
They talked about, though P.stab­lisheo no policies on, ways to identify signs of pending mass violence, ways of stopping it, and ways to help rebuild tattered nations after a slaughter. . "We don't have all the answers on how to stop this madness," Scheffer, ambassador at large' for war crimes issues, said in an interview. 
But he said more sharing of reli­able information between govern­ments is a must. So is making sure the information is presented quickly 
injuries were reported. 

"It appears as though it was a disgruntled employ­ee who snapped," Mayor Jeremy Ilarris said. Police would not comment on a motive though. 
Uesugi, 40, was being booked for investigation of first-degree murder, which carries a mandatory penalty of' life without parole. 
The gunfire erupted in an industrial section of Honolulu, far from the Waikiki tourist district. 
Five victims were found dead in a conl'erence room and two other bodies were 
and persuasively to thosn who will make the decisions on whether to get involved. 
And it will all cost money that the world must agreo to spond. 
!lolly Burkhalter of the Boston­based monitoring group Physicians for Human Rights disagreed, saying the problem is not lack of informa­tion but lack of will by governments to act. 
"Intelligence gathering !agencies), human rights monitors and the embassies are alert to the trouble ­this has been chcwod to doath," shr. said in an intcrviow. 
"The question that interests me is, What are you going to do about it?" 
"I think they're basically very timid about intervention, particularly when it's in Africa," she said. 
found noarby. 
All had been shot with a 9 mm handgun, authori­ties said. 
Police found 20 9 mm shell casings at the scene. At Unsugi's home, thoy found 11 handguns, 5 rifles and two shotguns. 
The victims -111al11 Xerox employees -were shot on the sncond floor of' the two-story building, authorities said. They ranged in agn from 33 to 58. 
"It's a shock for all of us. We have such a safe com­munity with almost no vio­lent crime,"llarris said. 

Page 6 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, November 3, 1999 
Fire destroys small Montana Main Street 
Associated Press 
OUTLOOK, Mont. 

Colleen Smith stood at the remains of the town posi office, a smoldering, rubble­filled pit. Across the way sat the smoky ruins of the general store, now a nearly empty lot. Facing it was another empty space where the 
''ft was just a wall of the town's

Cenex gas station used fl.ames coming. It went 43 students to be. will attend
through town in a matter 

" 0 u r classes in Main Street ofminutes." Flaxville, 26 is kind of miles away, go n e , " until the.
Robert Beckers 

Smith said Outlook
local farmer

Monday. surveying the smoking ruins of businesses in 1.his tiny northeast ~ontana farm town. 
As manager for more than 100 of the area's post offices, she managed to save the mail from a wind-driven fire that swept through Sunday night. loading it into her pickup truck and driving off before the flames arrived. 
The fire, fueled by 76 mph winds, burned nearly 18 square miles of prairie. It also roared through Outlook. dri­ving out some 200 people. No deaths or serious injuries were reported. 
"It was just a ,val! of flames coming," said Robert Beckers, who farms north of town. "It went through town in a mat­ter of minutes." 
Apparently started by a passing freight train, the fire destroyed up to 24 homes, four grain elevators and parts of several farmsteads as well as the downtown businesses. 
Spared were two churches and the town bar, The Hub. The lone school in town sur­vived, although flames came within a few feet. 
"Five of us were trapped," said Leann llippley. 18. a senior who was helping pre­pare for a children's Halloween party. 
"One of the women came and told us we had to get into the basement, the fire was coming," she said. "A fire­fighter came and got us out. The fire was all around us." 
School 
officials say 
school can 
be cleaned 
of soot dam­age. 
Local firefighters joined by crews from seven nearbv towns and Minton·, Saskatchewan, kept the fire away from 25 houses, said Mark Gruener, a state disas­ter spokesman. 
In Overlook, rubble formed a 20-foot-high heap of debris by the railroad track beside a burned train engine. Thick smoke still poured from deep within the locomotive, and flames licked across the sur­face. 
Carl Tange was trying to plow firebreaks when the flames overtook him. They swept by with such speed that he was spared injury. Even the tractor wasn't damaged. 
"I'd say in seconds, it moved a quarter of a mile," he said. "The flames were just shoot­ing. 
It was throwing balls of fire and cinders at least a quarter of a mile ahead. They'd hit and explode." 
Smith pointed to a black­ened, 1,500-pound steel safe being hauled out of the post • office ashes. 

World Bank head criticizes Congress 
The Department of Music presents 

The N,otre Dame Symphony Orchestra 
..... Thursday, November 4, 1999, 8P.M. ·" , Washington Hall free Admission 

Ce.lebrate 
Summer 2000 Abroc.d! 
Europe • Asia • Africa Australia • South America 
SYRAOUSS UNIVERSITY Division of International Program.s Abroad Summer Programs 119 Euclid Avenue Syracuse, NY 13244-4170 
(800) 251-9674 DIPAsum@summail.syr.edu http://sumweb.syr.edu/dipa/summer 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

World Bank President James Wolfensohn denounced Congress Tuesday for slashing spending on foreign opera­tions. calling the move a "dis­grace" that could endanger lending to many poor nations. 
Wolfensohn said Congress has cut the proposed U.S. contribution to the World Bank's low interest lending program to $620 million from the $800 million originally requested by the Clinton administration. 
"It would be just devastat­ing devastating to American leadership and dev­astating to people in develop­ment," if the full amount is not provided, Wolfensohn told reporters after a speech to the Centt>r for Strategic and International Studies. 
Wolfensohn joined U.S. Secretary of State Madeleine Albright and U.S. Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers, who recently protested Congress' action on foreign operations spending. But it was unusual for the head of an international orga­nization to criticize the legis­lature of a memher nation. Wolfonsohn is an Australian­born American, 
The World Bank has bud­geted $6 billion a year over the next throe years to be provided to tho In tcrnational Development Association, the bank's window for developing countries to receive loans at advantageous terms. 
However, Wolfensohn said the Congress' decision to cut the U.S contribution to IDA may encourage other donor nations to reduce their contri­butions, endangering the entire program. 
"The U.S. spends less than one-tenth of one percent of our gross domestic product on foreign assistance, and in the current state of legislation that is proposed in the House, tho minimum amount -$800 million -that had been promised for IDA is on the books now a $620 million," the World Bank chief said in his speech. 
"It is a disgrace," he said. 
La.st month Congress cut the Clinton administration's for­eigu operations spending request, which includes the World Bank allocation. to $12.7 billion. and President Clinton vetoed the bill. The administration now must negotiate with Congress on the spending request. 
Wolfcnsohn said that the current push to bring mean­ingful debt relief to poor countries must be linked with continuing development lend­ing to be effective. 
He said U.S. congressional resistance to providing the funtls to support such efforts seems based on the misunder­standing -as reflected in some surveys -that the United States already allo­cates 10 percent to 15 per­cent of gross domestic prod­uct to foreign assistance pro­grams, when the figure is actually below 0.1 percent. 
As a sham of GDP, Sweden and Denmark provide 10 times /ts much foreign aid as the Unitod States, the World 13ank president added. 

Brad Metz, C.S.C. • Irish Guard 1992-95 Ordination Date: April 6, 2002 
Can you make this team? 

ANSWER ~ THECALL W Jt'r. Jim King, C.S.C. Fr. Bill Wack, C.S.C. 


www.nd.edu/-vocation 
Wednesday, November 3, I 999 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Tobacco companies begin defense in court 
whether to award punitive

Associated Pres< 
damages to all 500,000 sick smokNs.
l\llAMI 
On Monday. Stanley

'Jow it's Big Tobacco's turn. 
Hosenblalt, attorney for the

l.awytlrs for tlrn industry 
smokr.rs. said the tobacco com­

wern sclwdulnd to give opening 
panies lied and mishid the pub­

slatPments today in a land­
1i c for yuars by glamorizing

mark lawsuit that thcv l'mtr 
smoking and downplaying its

could rripplo tlw nation's ciga­
dangers,

r!'ltP muknrs. 
IIn used

l.awvnrs 
Ms. Farnan
"Every day, every week,

from l'hilip 
and Amodeo

Morris Inc., pt{/f. pu.[f. pu}J ... the 
to show how

IU. Heynolds 
cigarettes caused her tho cigarette

Tohacc'.o Co., 
companies'
lung damage. " 

Lorillard 
actions led Lo 

Tohacco Co., 
their addic­Brown & Stanley Rosenblatt tions and ill­Williamsun 
attorney nesses. Ms. 

Tobacco 
Farnan is a 

Corp. and 
44-year-olrl

Liggett Group Inc. werP 
nurse and mother of three 

t'X(H'C:Lnd lo tell Circuit Court rrom Inglis. Amodeo is a 
60­

jurors why thnir clients should 
yrmr-old Orlando clock maker. 

1111t IH' forrml Lo pay <lamagns 
They bccamn addicted to cig­

to two crnccir-strirknn Florida 
arettes as children and became 

smuk11rs. 
ill al'tPr developing an addiction l'rndictions of potential dam­
with encouragement f'rom ciga­

agns havp benn as l1igh as 
rette makers, Rosenblatt said. $'.WO billion. 
"What caused Mary rarnan's Tho two smokers. Mary lung cancer?" Hoscnblatt Farnan and !;rank Amodeo. 
askr-d. "Every day, every week, am being used Lo represent an 
puff, puff, puff ... the cigarettesnslimatPcl :i00,000 ill Florida 
caused lrnr lung damage."smokers who am part of the Also Monday, a lawyer tried dass-action suit. to convince the Florida 
Tim same six-mcimber jury Supreme Court to reinstate a rul,id in July that cigarnttes $750,000 judgment for a for­arP a "defective product" that mer smoker against Brown & causns cancer and other dis­Williamson. eases, and that the tobacco When a jury handed down companins had engaged in the award for Grady Carter in "extreme and outrageous con­August 1996, it was just the duct" in selling and marketing second time in 40 years of anti­their product. smoking litigation that a ciga­The jurors must now put a rette-maker was ordered to price tag on Ms. Farnan's and pay damages. But the 1st Arnodeo's actual damages. If District Court of Appeal tlw jurors award the pair dam­reversed the award almost two ag1!S, they will th(m considnr years later. 
IN Chicago: January 11-16, 2000 
TOPICS INCLUDE: 

. Violence Prevention . Adequate and long-term Housing policies . Justice in the Workplace . Education strategies for the inner city . Fund-raising for Non-profits 

Application Deadline: 5:00pm, November 8, 1999 
Come to the CSC for Application & Learning Agreement. Questions? Call Jay Caponigro at 631-5293. 
Saudis support trial for bin Laden 

Sultan said his view is that weapons and the means to
. U.S., U.N. 
for bin Laden to remain in deliver them. we think thatadvocate limited Afghanistan "is not in the this is a matter of impor­interest of Afghanistan." tance," Cohen said.
sanctions against 
A spokesman for Cohen also denied any dif­
Afghanistan 
Afghanistan's ruling Taliban, ference in U.S. and Saudi Tayyab Aga, said earlier views on Iraq. Tuesday that bin Laden likely Sultan said the kingdom has 
Associated Press wiJI remain in that country 
"great affection and care" for after the United States reject­
the Iraqi people and totallyWASIIINCTON ed an offor to have him leave 
opposes "any action that will Saudi Arabia's defense min­or to have his fate decided by 
destabilize and dismantle 
ister supported demands that an Islamic court in Iraq as a nation'" 
former Saudi businessman Afghanistan. 
"Our difference is with the 
Osama bin Laden be turned At the State Department, regime in lraq, and that 
over to howevnr, an ollicial said the starts and ends at their fullill­
stand trial United States considers the 
men t totally and fully of
for terror­impasse over the demand for 
United Nations resolutions,ism and bin Laden to be brought to which they havo not done,"
said it is justice lo be between Lhe 
Im said.
not in Taliban and the United 
Cohen cnclorsi~cl that view.
Afghanis­Nations. 'rhe demand is 
"W1i also share concern about
tan's intnr­spelled out in the U.N. 
the suffering of the Iraqi peo­
est to keep Security 
ple," he said.

shielding Council res­
"But we alsohim. o I u ti on "In view ofthe fact that 

understand

Prince approved many countries are 
that SaddamSultan bin Abdul Aziz said unanimously 

developing chemical and Hussein is
bin Laden, who has been two weeks 
the ont1 per­

stripped of his Saudi citizen­ago. biological weapons and 
son who is

ship, is considernd a traitor to The offi-the means to deliver 
inllieting thathis country and to Islam. cial. who 

them, we think that is a suffering by
"If' the 'h11iban hands him spoke on over to face justice, whether condition he matter ofimportance." hoarding 
millions of

in the United States or any­not to be dollars worthwhere else, we believe then idcn tificd, 
Willlam Cohen 
of medicine, Defense Secretary supplies,justice should take its way," said the 
said Sultan, speaking in United Arabic at a news conference States is clothing, with Defense Secretary willing to resume discussions, other types William Cohen. not negotiations, with the of humanitarian assistance 
The United States, now Taliban on how the Security that should be going to the backed by a U.N. resolution Council resolution can be people of Iraq." advocating limited sanctions implemented. On the investigation into the 
against Afghanistan, is Cohen did not mention bin June 1996 Khobar Towers demanding that bin Laden be Laden as a subject of talks bombing in Saudi Arabia, surrendered to the United with the Saudi defense minis­which killed 19 American ser­States or another country to ter but said they focused on vice members, Sultan said his stand trail on charges that he cooperative initiatives to pre­government is in no hurry to masterminded the August vent and defend against wrap up the investigation or 1998 bombings of U.S. weapons of mass destruction. prosecution. "It's vitally embassies in Kenya and "In view of the fact that important that people are Tanzania that killed 224 peo­many countries are develop­innocent until proven guilty," 
ple. 

till
Cl!NTIER FOQ 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
ing chemical and biological he said. 
'Phantom' threats worry high school 
"Why he was doing this,
Associated Press 

what his motivations were are still part of the investigation,"SAMMAMISH, Wash. 
Duval said. "That's still a little
Classes were canceled murky as to what he was
Monday at a high school after 
accomplishing, other than
threats were made in an 
whether he thought he was
Internet chat room to kill 
being runny and playing aeveryone in tho school. The 
practical joke."
threats were reportedly made 
Four police officers were
by an Arizona college student. 
being assigned to the school
The threats were violent 
in addition to thn usual school ., enough and specific enough security ollicers when classes
to be taken seriously, Lake 
resume Tuesday. A statement
Washington School District issued by the school district
spokesman Richard Duval 
Monday said teachers wouldsaid. King County Sheriff's 
meet before classes to discussdetectives were investigating. 
the threats.
School officials in this 
Teachers had known aboutSeattle suburb learned of the the chat room on the Internet.
threats over the weekend. 
and had been monitoring it
Parents who attended a 
f'or several clays, Duval said. 
Monday night meeting at the 
Then on Friday night. he
school were told the suspect 
said, someone logged on as
is an 18-year-old freshman at 
"Phantom" and said they
Arizona State University in 
would kill everyone in the
Tempe. Ariz.. KING-TV of school on Monday. SomeoneSeattle reported. 
referred to Mondav as
A friend in the youth's dorm "doomsday." · is dating an Eastlake gradu­
Chat rooms operate as aate whose brother still 
sort of text teleconference,altends the high school. The where a number of partici­brother reportedly told his 
pants can send computu
sister he was being criticized messages seen instantly by all 
in the chat room and she 
logged in to the room.
passed along thn Internet 
Participants routinely send
address to her ASU friend. 

messages under nicknames.
''Phantom" was tracked by The chat room at issue wassherifrs department comput­on the unofficial "Eaztlake"

er experts. He was being 
Web site, school officials said. 
questioned, parents were The site was shut down

told. The youth was not iden­Monday.

tified. 

page 8 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, November 3, 1999 
Sonar detects 990's crucial black boxes 
Associated Press 
NEWPORT, R.I. 

Relatives sobbed, screamed and fainted Tuesdav as crash investigators warned them there was little hope of find­ing intact bodies in the debris of EgyptAir Flight 990. 
"Everybody was screaming and crying, because they weren't expecting to hear something like that," said George Arian, of Jersey City, 
N e w 
Jersey, who Graham said a second signal was detected Tuesday by the sonar-equipped U.S. Navy vessel Mohawk, shortly before it was ordered to port because of bad weather. 
Graham said the signals came from a field of debris located by sonar on the ocean floor about 60 miles south of Nantucket. 
The chief crash investiga­tor, Greg Phillips, said it was still not known whether large sections of the plane would be found on the seabed. 
Once the 
storm ends, 

has been the retrieval
"I came here hoping I'd

helping vic­effort will 
tims' fami­get my sister out ofthe led by the 
lies at a water. I'd like to take her u s s Newport Grapple, a
back home and bury her

hotel. salvage ship A positive body back in Egypt." that arrived s i g n in Newport emerged on Tuesday
Sayed Gahr

for investi­with 30
brother of EgyptAir Flight 990

gators try­divers 
ing to crash victim aboard. The 
determine w h a t caused the crash, as officials said signals from both of the 
plane's "black boxes" were detected by a sonar-equipped Navy ship. 
Most search vessels were ordered back to shore Tuesday evening as a storm arrived, though one Coast Guard ship was expected to try to ride out the storm at the crash site. When good weather returns, perhaps not until Thursday, the Navy's top priority will be to retrieve the cockpit voice recorder and flight data recorder, which could help explain the cause of the crash. 
All 217 people aboard the Cairo-bound flight were killed when the Boeing 767 plummeted mysteriously into the sea a half-hour after leaving New York early Sunday morning. 
By Tuesday afternoon, more than 150 relatives had arrived in Newport, where the search for wreckage and human remains was being coordinated. About 70 of the relatives flew in from Egypt, accompanied by 39 Egyptian aviation and government offi­cials. 
"I wish it had been me who had been sacrificed," EgyptAir chairman Mohammed Fahim Rayan said before boarding the t1ight from Cairo. 
Emotions were intense when crash investigators advised the relatives not to expect the recovery of intact bodies. 
"Everybody here from the Egyptian families expected to see his loved one, his broth­er, his sister, as a body that they could identify easily," Arian said. "The news was a shock to all of them." 
This makes it impossible l'or families to follow tradi­tional Islamic rites, which call for a ritual washing and shrouding of the body and a quick burial, usually within two days. 
Arian said one relative was 
taken awav in an ambulance 
after the briefing, which was 
closed to reporters. 
The first apparent signal from one of the plane's two black boxes was detected by the Coast Guard on Monday. 
Navy Captain James 
Grapple will 
dock for at least a day and a half to load additional supplies, then head to the crash site, said Navy spokesman David Sanders. 
The investigation is looking into all possibilities: human error, mechanical failure and sabotage. About 600 FBI agents have joined in the investigation. 
Egyptian officials confirmfld Tuesday that 33 Egyptian military officers, including two brigadier generals, were on the plane, returning home after undergoing training in the United States. The offi­cers' ranks had been kept off the passenger list for security reasons. Egyptian military officials have been key tar­gets of attacks by Islamic fundamentalists. 
Outside the Newport hotel where the relatives are stay­ing, a tearful Sayed Gahr of Los Angeles held a photo of his 54-vear-old sister, Fatima, as she turned to wave before boarding the doomed plane in Los Angeles. 
"I came here hoping I'd get my sister out of the water. I'd like to take her back home and I'd like to bury her body back in Egypt," he said, sob­bing. 
~""-­Student Travel from A to z 

London  184  
Paris  208  
Barcelona  244  
Amsterdam  226  

From Indianapolis~
e-ach way based on a rt 
purchase. Fares do not 
include taxes, are 
valid for departures ~ 
in November and are 
subject to change. 
Restrictions apply. 
1-800-2COUNCIL 
www.counciltravel.com 

Clinton eyes immigration changes 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

With more than 100,000 immigrants facing possible deportation, President Clinton and his allies on Capitol Hill hope to change a policy that bars courts from deciding the aliens· residency. 
Bills are Naturalization Service inter­preted restrictions in the measure, however, as barring anyone who had received wel­fare or other public benefits. 
Courts later held that the INS erred in its interpreta­tion, but the window of opportunity ha closed for thousands of amnesty appli­cants. The INS' position in effect was that even though 
the delay was 
languish caused by the
'This is an issue that 

ing in agency's Congress affects all immigrants -error, the to reverse applicants
Polish, Ukrainians, Irish 

a 1996 were out of 
-from all over the world" 

rule that luck. courts can-A class-
not consid­ Luis Gutierrez  action  suit  
er appeals of immi­ lllinios Representative  was filed behalf  on of  
grants who  80,000 people  
say  that  whose immi­ 

bureaucratic mix-ups cost gration status was in jeop­them their rights to work and ardy, but before the litigation live in America. could be resolved, Congress 
"If you are talking about divested the courts ofjurisdic­basic fairness, this is some­tion in 1996. thing I think deserves a look," Members of the said Senator Harry Reid. Congressional Hispanic 
A key House Republican Caucus brought the problem indicated, however, that to Clinton's attention at a chances are slim for pushing White House meeting this through a change this year. month. Speaking through a In 1996, "we simply passed spokesman, Representative a law that said you can't go to Lamar Smith, chairman of the court and appeal the deci­House Judiciary immigration sion," Illinois Representative subcommittee, noted that "the Luis Gutierrez said. "The subcommittee has not consid­president understood that is ered that legislation this fundamentally unfair." year." An INS official said the 
In 1986, President Ronald agency wants to help the Reagan signed into law a aliens find a permanent measure gtranting amnesty to answer about their immigra­most illegal immigrants who tion status but can do nothing had worked and lived in the without instruction.s from United States for several Congress. years. The Immigration and The INS estimates about 80,000 people are caught in the immigration limbo, a sta­tistic drawn from the number of people who joined the class-action suit. No one is keeping specific records, but the White House estimates 200,000 are affected, the cau­cus as many as 400,000. 

Most are Mexicans, but Gutierrez said, "This is an issue that impacts all immi­grants -Polish, Ukrainians, Irish -from all over the 
world  who  went  to  take  
advantage  of  the  1986  
amnesty law."  

"The caucus believes they should be given ... their day in court and let a judge decide," he said. 
The lawmakers want to update what is known as immigration's "registry date," the yardstick by which amnesty claims are mea­sured. The date has not been updated since 1973. 
Legislation would move it to 1984, effectively grandfa­thering in immigrants left in the lurch by the 1996 law. 
Reid was drawn to the issue by Hispanics in his district who were sold false residency documents. Victims of the scheme accosted him at a community center. 
"It was one of the most illu­minating gatherings I have ever been involved in," he said. 
"They were there to µlead with us." 
Reid said many of his con­stituents had worked for years in the same jobs and had families in Nevada when they found themselves with­out legal standing to remain in the United States. 

Graduating college seniors are invited to apply for the 27th annual Pulliam Journalism Fellowships. We will grant 10-week summer internships to 20 journalism or liberal arts majors in the August 1999-June 2000 graduating 
classes. 
Previous internship or part-time experience at a newspaper is desired. or other demonstration of writing and reporting ability. Those who go through the Fellowships often find new professional opportunities opening up at other newspapers during and after the program. Wrnners will receive a $5,500 stipend and will work at either The Indianapolis Star or The Arizona Republic. Opportunities for online training are available, along with reporting experience 
at our major metropolitan daily newspapers. 
Early-admissions application postmark deadline is Nov. 15, 1999. By Dec. 15, 1999, up to five early-admissions winners will be notified. Al! other entries must be postmarked by March 1, 2000, and will be consid­ered with remaining early-admissions applicants. Successful applicants will be notified on or before April l, 2000, and will be asked to respond immediately with a letter of intent, at which time one-third of the cash grant will be mailed to the Fellow. 

To request an application packet, visit our Web site, e-mail us or write: 
-Russell B. Pulliam
!l,'~ 

Pulliam Fellowships Director Indianapolis Newspapers \Y~b ~i,c: \., ~-\i.•.si~tri1.~;s..:om/pjr P.O. Box 145 E-mail: ~.ulJiam(iL ·,:~1111c'" ~-com' 
Indianapolis, IN 46206-0145 

ver 
-----~--­

Wednesday, November 3, 1999 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
CUBA 
Dissidents use summit for attention 
dent nows agency Habana 

Associated f'res:,; 
Press. "We really regret this attack. The language was very11/\Vt\NA aggressive."

FidPI Castro launcll!'d a rare The dissidents have made notohwiscd attack on the commu­secret of tlwir plans to use thenist island's dissidP.nts tiarly gathering to draw attention to
today, mocking tlrnm and 
tlrnir complaints -among

accusing thmn of taking advan­tlrnm that the communist gov­
tagn of' thll upcoming lbnro­
Hrnment. does not allow free­Amr.rican summit lo carry tlwir 

dom of t. xpression, assembly

"counterrnvolutionary" nrns­
and movement. 

sagn LO fornign lcadnrs. 
Tlwy have grown bolder as

IIn namr.cl many of the dissi­
the summit approaches. evendP nts during 

gathering withtlw broadcast. 

foreign jour­

IIP said one "lie /Castro/ is accusing 
nalists in a

h a cl us oftrying to destroy 
restaurant

approachtid 
the Ibero-American patio· during

e m b a s s i l1 s 
last week's

hPrP about summit." 
visit here by

nrnnling with 
Illinois Gov.

11:uders during 
Jorge Olivera Castillo George Ryan.

thn Nov. I !i-
Habana Press Cuba\; largely

16 gatlrnring of heads of state f'rom Spain, Portugal and Latin !\nrnrica. 
"Tlrny wern planning a paral­111! summit," Castro said angri­ly. 
.lnrg11 Olivera Castillo, an indnpm1d1mt journalist who was among tho many dissidents named by thn Cuban leader, denied Castro's accusation. 
"lip is accusing us of' trying to destroy tlw llrnro-t\merican summit," Olivera Castillo said. "This is ahsolutdy raise." 
Listing pPople by nanw pub­lir ly "has nnver happened bPl'orn," said Olivera Castillo, who works with the indepen­
timid oppo­
nents most ofwn meet with reporters only indoors. 
It was not immediately clear if Castro planned any action against the dissidents before the summit. Cuba's human rights record remains a shadow over the gathering. which Cuba hopes will help improve rela­tions with Spanish-and Portuguese-speaking nations. 
Some countries attending the summit, notably Spain, have pushed for freeing four interna­tional Iv known Cuban dissi­dents, "sentenced earlier this year to prison terms ranging from 4 1/2 to six years. 

During the broadcast today, Castro discussed the four, read­ing portions of their documents calling on Miami exiles to encourage relatives on the island to undertake civil disobe­dience. 
"These are political prison­ers?" he asked. 
King Juan Carlos I and Spanish Prime Minister Jose Maria Aznar have said they will attend the summit. But at least fiv1~ heads of state have said they will not attend, despite vigorous efforts by Cuba's Foreign Ministry. 
Costa Rican President Miguel Angel Rodriguez says he will not be there because Castro did not guarantee him the right to mHet with dissidents. Nicaraguan President Arnoldo Aleman says he won't go because of political differences with Castro, and El Salvador's president, Francisco Flores, says he will not come because his country and Cuba have no diplomatic relations. 
Th(! other two no-shows ­Chilean President Eduardo Frei and outgoing Argentine President Carlos Menem -are not coming to protest Spain's attempt to extradite former Chilean military leader Gen. Augusto Pinochet from Britain for trial on torture charges. 
During the televised appear­ance today, Castro focused much time on a highly publi­cized 40-day liquid fast by dis­sidents earlier this year. 
NORTHERN IRELAND 

Trimble's trip leaves process hanging 
Associated Press 

BELFAST 
Talks on salvaging Northern Ireland's peace accord contin­ued today, but Ulster Unionist leader David Trimble's depar­ture for a trip to the United States reduced hopes of' a con­clusion this week. 
Trimble's party represents much of the province's British Protestant population, and he is central to resolving the dis­pute that has blocked the for­mation of a new government for Northern Ireland. 11 'friml.:lle','who shared the 1998 Nobel Peace Prize with Catholic politician John Hume, was scheduled to speak at Ball State University on Wednesday. He was to visit the Indianapolis Humanities Council on Thursday, then brief the White House's deputy national security advis­er, Jim Steinberg, in Washington on Friday. 
George Mitchell, the former 
U.S. 
Senate majority leader and Clinton's choice four years ago to lead American diplomacy in Northern Ireland, has been overseeing negotiations in Belfast for the past two months. His spokesman rejected local reports that Mitchell had urged Trimble to cancel his 

U.S. 
appointments. 



Mitchell has been trying to resolve the impasse between the Ulster Unionists and Sinn Fein, the Irish Republican Army-linked party with sub­stantial Catholic support. 
Trimble has refused to accept Sinn Fein's right to hold office in a new Protestant-Catholic govern­ment for Northern Ireland ­the central proposal within the Good Friday accord of 1998 -until the IRA promis­es. or actually begins, to dis­arm, 
Trimble's office said he would keP,p in touch with his senior negotiator, Reg Empey. 
The two sides have said almost nothing about th1dr talks in recent weeks after Mitchell told them that public arguments would only harm their efforts. 
Meanwhile, police in Belfast and Glasgow, Scotland, arrest­ed two men today on suspi­cion of trying to kill a high­prolile IRA informer. 
Martin McGartland was shot six times in June at his horn!) in northeast England, whenr he had been living under & police-provided alias fur sev­eral years. McGartland accused the IHA of seeking revenge for his role as a paid police informer. 
Police declined to say whether the two men arrested had any IRA connections. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS 109 HURLEY BUILDING Notre Dame, Indl3na 46556 T: 631-5882 Fu: 631-5711 
-

1'lb • .. '
ir ---~.,. 
-~~ 
ANGERS, FRANCE 
INFORMATION MEETING 
With Cannen Nanni, Assistant Director 
Thursday, November 4, 1999 
4:45 PM South Dining Hall-Hospitality Room 
Appetizers will be served 
Returning students will be on hand to ·answer questions 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 
page 10 BSERVER Wednesday, November 3, l 999 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame. IN 46'.>56 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Michelle Krupa 

MANAGING EorroR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
M. Shannon R)'an  David Rogero  
As:iT. MANAGING EDITOR  
Laura Pecclk  

NEWS EDITOR: Tim Logan VIEWl'OINT FDITOR: Colleen Gaughen SrORTS EDITOR: Brian Kessler 

SCENE EDITOR: Michael Vanegas SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Oalum 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Bryan Lutz 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Bret Huebc SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers WEB AoMINISTI\ATOR: Erik Kushto 
CONTROLLER: Timothy Lane GRAPHICS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 

CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GF.NF.IL\L INFO .. ...........631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 AoVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
ohserver@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHJEF........................................631·4542 MANAGING fDITOR/AssT. ME........ ..........631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-53 !3 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWiiolNT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinr. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY's.............................................631-4324 
obs~rver.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO.......................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS ................631-8839 
THE OBSER\IER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site ar http://observer. nd edu for daily updares ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news 
· from ,he Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for 

weather for up-to-rhe 
minu,e forecas,s 
weekly student reviews 
online features for spe­

advertise for policies 
cial campus coverage 

and rares of prim ads 
about The Observer 

archives to search for 
to meet the editors and 

articles published after 
staff

August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is che independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by che scudems of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. Acting as pub­lisher ofThe Observer. the administration of rhe University of Notre Dame du Lac prohibirs rhe adver­ri'semenr ofalcohol and The Observer's acceptance of advertisements from specified types of groups. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi,orials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Ediror in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Edicor and department editors. Commentaries, le,rers and columns present che views of rhe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint .pace is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions ,hrough letters is encouraged. 
Quertiom regarding Obrerver policies rhould be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefMichelle Kn.pa. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

University censorship hits WVFI 
I remember being in kindergarten, I think it was the second day. A bunchof the guys were doing typical guy-kinder­garten things, playing war with the multi-colored intergalactic star ships we had each crafted out of these near­LEGO's that my kindergarten had. It was all kinds of fun, zooming and crashing the ships all over the area rug that had been designated as the inter­galactic battle ground. We looked for­ward to a whole year of fun with multi colored near-LEGO wars. 
Until that one kid came over and ended our war. Not in a playful kinder­garten way, he didn't defeat all the other ships in some all out plastk dog fight. No, this little kindergarten scoundrel decided he was going to start snatching ships out of other people's hands. throwing blocks all over the room and causing a big commotion. We all gave him the condescending kinder­garten equivalent of, "Hey pal, why you gotta be like that?" but it was to no avail. Before too long our teacher spot­ted the commotion, came over and ended our war. There was no inquiry into what had happened, no negotia-• tions, no Martian prison camps built out of Lincoln Logs or real LEGO's. Just the last intergalactic skirmish of the entire year. All because of that one guy and his bad attitude. 
Most people can probably relate to this story: Everyone has experienced the burning anger that all us blood­thirsty kindergartners tasted when tha­tone kid ruined all the fun. Everyone has had to live through the illogical and irrefutable punishment dolled out by parents, teachers, school bus drivers and other adults who decided the best means of solving a problem was to autocratically, and without explanation, destroy the fun and good times for everyone rather than target the real troublemaker. Being a kid is all about dealing with situations like that. Luckily, going off to college means leav­ing all of that behind. 
At most colleges maybe. 
The vast majority of people on this campus are unaware of our college radio station WVFI. True, college radio everywhere isn't a tenth of what it was when four guys named REM were ere-• ating it twenty years ago in Georgia. Still, this year the hotly wired Notre Dame information infrastructure took a big step in bringing back college radio. The station, formerly broadcasting on 660 AM, switched to an Internet format so that everyone in the world could potentially listen to the station. Beyond even the football broadcasts of Saturday afternoon, the station was able to send the shows of aspiring col­lege DJ's to campuses and computers all over the world. All until some kindergartners started throwing the blocks. 
Allegedly in response to the childish and inappropriate actions of a few no talent mavericks who thought they would pose as Howard Stern, the University decided to fire wall the web site. In layman's terms, they made it so the site could be broadcast ONLY to people on the Notre Dame server, meaning, on campus. In a heartbeat, the work and plans of all the stu­dentswho designed and constructed the new format went out the window. The story circulating says that some kids decided to swear on the air and the uni­versity decided to take down the entire network. The individuals were not sin­gled out or removed. the entire station was punished swiftly. decisively and without reproach. That seems fair and logical. right? Right. About as logical as the guys in my kindergarten class try­ing to have new dog fights with make believe starships. 
There is no disputing that Notre Dame is geographically self contained. Why it must be so stubborn in the effort to remain an intellectual Biodome, however, is beyond my comprehension. There are brilliant people on this cam­pus, and there seems no legitimate rea­son that their talents not be used when such a medium exists for such. Periodically exchange some of the stag­nant regurgitated philosophies and per-· spectives for the fresh air of the (don't all scream at once) outside world. There are always going to be a few morons who swear on the radio, and when they do, 1 say deal with them and be on your way. Hegulate individuals, don't punish the masses. But most importantly, deal with the issue and plainly justify your actions to those who are concerned. In this case, that means not just the people who work on this station, but the entire student body, whether they listen to the radio­Internet or not. Don't sweep the issue under the rug like some bad advertise­ment that you don't want anyone to see. All I really needed to know about illogi­cal punishment I learned in kinder­garten; I didn't think I'd have to revisit the horrors fifteen years later at col­lege. Please, don't let the sour behavior of a few bad apples ruin a boy's great plans and big dreams for his well craft­ed, multi colored, intergalacticstarship. And if you run into that kid from my kindergarten class, ask him why he's gotta' be like that. 
Paul Camarata Sophomore Dillon Hall 
October 31, l 999 

DILBERT 
DESIGNING A CALL CENTER.
f---_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_:_-_-_:_:_-_-_:_-_-_:_-_-_::;--t 
-
GIVE THE EMPLOYEES 
SIX MINUTES OF BATHROOM BREAKS PER SHIFT. 
E 
~ 
0. 
® 
m 
E 
,,m 
I m 
SCOTT ADAMS 

TIN'< CUBICLES ... AND  HOW'S  I'M STILL  
WE'LL MONITOR CALLS  THE  COLLECTING  
AND HAVE INCOMPAT­ PROJECT  THE ABUSER  
IBLE  OBJECTIVES,  GOING?  REQUIRE­ 
SUCH AS SPEED  AND  MENTS.  

CUSTOMER $ER.VICE. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'"Sweetness.' There may not have been a better nickname for a player." 

Jim Harbaugh former Chicago Bears football player 
I, 
' 

VIEWPOINT . 
O
THF 
Wednesday, November 3, l 999 BSERVER page 11 
It's our duty to donate organs 
This week. as many of' you am probably aware. lhll Chicago Bear:-. lo:-.l one ol' their legends: Walter l'a.yton. tlrn NFL's all-time leading rushor died at tlrn ag(' of' 45. 
While the cancer that killed Payton had sprnad too far to be C'.Urnd by a liver transplant, he still taped a Public Service !\nnounccment urging for organ donors. I saw a picture capnired rrom the commercial (on Urn Washington Post Wnb site www.washingtonpost .com). There was the man whom I used to watch as he l.irustwd off Dextnr Manley and the rest or thr. Washington Hodskins defensive line with just a 11ip of his head and a couplc of extra steps. You could sec in his eyes that it was him, only chemotherapy and tlw t(irrible corrosivP effort of' cancer had whittled away the broad shoulders and the strong arms. 
Pavton nccrlnd a liv1~r transplant earlier in the ycar:bul he waitl'd in vain. Then, when no other option presented itself, lw waited. pursued as much trnatment as possible and weathered the storm as lrnst he could. 
Did he really have to die so soon? Could some­thing have bmm done about it? Was it possible that in those months that he was waiting, someone with a pPrfoctly healthy liver and of the same blood type had dind with the organ that could have given him the gill of a few more years'' Yes it's possible. 
I IHWPr chncknd thn box on mv driver's license calling for organ donation until·, got to college. 
My freshman year, my father went into the hospi­tal complaining of chost pains and shortness of breath. lie was diagnosed with UIP. an immune dis­nas1~ that uses th11 whitn blood cells to slowly turn the lungs into scar tissue. It had been working on him for 20 years and finally had done enough destructive work to eliminate the usefulness of one lung and severely impair that of the other. 
Through shenr determination and a rigorous trnatment schcduln of' chemotherapy, immune-sup­pressing steroids and physical therapy, he was able to hold the diseasn at bay for 30 months. Meanwhile he was waiting on lists at four different hospitals for a lung transplant that might have given him an extra fow years of his lifo. 
Then, in January 1997. live months before I was supposed to graduate from his alma mater, he finally got his lung transplant. But by then, his strnngth and will had faded to the point that the transplant didn't take. A wPek later he died. 
Since then I have gone to the Motor Vehicle Administration of' Maryland and had my status changed to that of an organ donor. 1am on file with the bone marrow transplant people as a possible donor. I have given blood. 
I am not writing this so that you can feel sorry for me or think what a great person I am. I don't really cam what you think or me. But I am begging you: Hegistnr to be an organ donor. donate blood when the Bloodmobile comes around, give what you can to thn National Cancer Snciety or other organiza­tions that are racing to !ind cures to the horrifying diseases that plague our world. 
Hemember that no doctor will use your organs to give life to another unless you give permission. I know that you realize that you will not need the organs after you die and it is hard to think that you nrn~d to immediatllly du something like this. But, however of a morbid thought it is, you never know thn time or place that God will call you on. You can­not afford put off something that is so important to so many people. Hegistcring now will guarantee that you will continue to do unto others even after you am gone. You nned to insure now that when you die. this corporeal form will give someone else a chance. 
Matthew foughran is a 199R graduate ofNotre !Jame and an MAIA candidate al St. John's College in Annapolis. Md. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neccessarily those of The Observer. 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Where was Malloy during Mass? 
His Eminence, Cardinal Arinze blessed the University of Notre Dame by his offering of the Mass in our glorious basilica Monday night. 
llowever, something -or someone, rather -was missing. Where was Father [Edward) Malloy? As president of Notre Dame and himself a brother priest of Cardinal Arinze, I can think of no person that would have greater reason to have been pre­sent at tho Mass. What a poor effort on Father Malloy's part to duly welcome and honor this cardi­nal prince of the Church ~o which Notre Dame owes its existence. 
Maybe there was another conllict. But I can think of nothing more important than to honor Cardinal Arinze by being present at the Mass he offered as a special blessing to this University. 
But even if there were some noblP cause for Malloy's absence, why too were Father Beauchamp and Father Hesburgh not present? Zero for three is a poor effort no matter what the excuse. 
Jacob T. Rodenbiker Freshman Keenan Hall 

Are we really recycling at ND? 
Recycling to treat or process (usPd or waste mate­school that instead ofjust admitting no attempt at rials) so as to make suitable for reuse. cooperating with environmentally concerned groups, Despite the high academic and moral the University continues with this ridicu­
standards at this university, Notre Dame cannot seem to grasp Webster's simple definition. 
The most blatant and deceiving example of this can be found at Reckers. where bins are separat­ed according to their recyclable material. Where do the separate bins for paper, glass and plastic all go? They all go into thP dump­ster behind South Dining Hall. 
It is more expensive to recycle, which explains why Notre Dame only pretends to. appeasing the handful of environ­mentally conscious stu­dents and faculty mem­bers. 
It figures that the tight-fisted people in charge of the University budget would place a higher value on image than on true environmental concern. It is an insult to the intelligence level of every student at this 
lous facade. The blame does not lie on the Reeker's managers. As stu­dent employees for two years, we have the utmost respect for these hardworking people. This prac­tice stems from the University's ignorant and stingy policies. Heckers remains the most popular 
social spot on campus. We are sure that it engenders 
more than enough rev­enue to recy­
cle its waste. It is time the University be held accountable for its actions. 
Missy Gorris Gina Moody Rebecca Trujillo 
Juniors Pasquerilla East October 3 I, I999 

Do not celebrate sinful tendencies 
Julie Fahey's recent letter to The Observer-Oct. 28 bringing "clarification" to Mary Crawford on the Church's position on homosexuality succeeded in muddying the waters still further. Apparently Fahey needs as much "clarification" as Crawford does. 
Fahey is absolutely right in saying that having a homosexual tendency is not immoral in itself. I missed lhe logic, however, when she jumps to the conclusion that "encouraging those who are homo­sexual to be "loud and proud" cannot be considered immoral." 
Hold on just a minute. All of us are born with a general tendency toward sin. And in addition, that tendency may express itself in particular ways in particular people: some of us may be weak toward alcohol, others toward theft, others toward lying, some toward heterosexual lust, others toward homo­sexual desires. The fact that we have these weak­nesses may be due to factors beyond our control like genetics or our childhood environment. It doesn't follow, however, that since these weaknesses aren't our fault, that we should be proud of them. 
Should all Christian kleptomaniacs band together and proclaim their pride in having a disordered desire to steal? Should all Christians of alcoholic parents be "loud and proud" that they have an inherited tendency toward the abuse of alcohol? Why should homosexuality be singled out as the one tendency toward sinful acts which we should cele­brate? 
We don't celebrate our tendencies toward sin. Instead, we struggle against them, and by growing in our relationship with God, receiving the grace of the Word and Sacraments, seeking support and fellow­ship, and sometimes getting the help of trained pro­fessionals, we hope to attain healing and wholeness to reach a state where our desires are for the right things. And even if we don't reach that state in this life, we don't stop struggling for it. 
Personally, I'm f'ar from reaching that state, and am in the need of the prayers of all who read this for the healing of my own disordered soul. The Church's teaching walks a tightrope between condemning homosexuals for having a tendency they may not have chosen. and simply saying that there is nothing disordered about homosexuality. The debate on campus, I think, is about how to walk this tightrope, and neither degrade homosexuals nor "normalize" homosexuality into nothing more than a legitimate alternative lifestyle. 
John S. Bergsma Graduate Srudent, Theology October 31, 1999 
-------,---------­

O
THE page 12 BSERVER Wedneday, November 3, 1999 

Alumni's notorious spirit thrives today 
b'ditor's note: Scene will feature the dorms of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's throughout the fall and spring semes­ten;. Anyone interested in writing a fea­ture of a dorm should e-mail Scene at Scene@nd.edu. 
By BRIDGET MAHONEY Scene Wricer 
OK, for all the full-bred Domen; out them, it's trivia time: Who was the Notre Dame mascot for 35 years beforp the Leprechaun got the job in 1965" 
The correct answer is the Irish terrier. and he currently lives iu the Dawghouse -of Alumni llall. that is. Does that make it the best dorm on campus, the center of thP universe? Of course, the Dawgs will holler until the day co-ed dorms come to Notre Dame. Although their fierce rival. Dillon Hall, as well as most dorms, probably beg to differ, it's worth a look at what makes Alumni Hall the dorm it is today. 
At the end of Notre Dame Avenue stands Alumni Hall and the Law School. two four-story towers marking the entrance to the university. In a collegiate Gothic architectural style, gargoyles and reliefs of Irish terriers, Knute Rockne, Joe College, Madonna and Child, St. Bonaventure and St. Thomas adorn the outer walls of Alumni. Some believe a ghost inhabits the gargoyle tower. 
The year 1931 marks the birth of both Alumni and Dillon. thus sparking a com­petitive rivalry. Naturally, pranks have 
SCENE ASKS 
been a popular tactic on both sides. In one instance, a couple of Dawgs unrav­eled a hose in the halls of Dillon and sprayed its residents. Sign-stealing has also been a common prank. 
"We've had a lol of dorm spirit in the past years," said Matt Griffith, Alumni Hall co-president. "But lhe rivalries haven't bePn as competitive lately. and we're hoping to bring that back this year." Griflith said this will be done pos­sibly by reviving Urn Alumni-Dillon Olympics. 
Alumni's competitive spirit does not stop there, though. as the crowded tro­phy case indicates a rncent tradition of success in interhall sports. The dorm boasts winning the championship in hockey and soccer last year, basketball the past two years (after 45 years with­out the title) and the Fisher Hall Regatta the past three. 
The Dawgs especially pride themselves on their fraternal atmosphere, and a banner bearing their Greek letters ­delta, omega. gamma -is brought out for special occasions. "The best thing is how much it's like a fraternity," said Don Pierce. Alumni's other co-president. "It's a really great group of guys. The older guys took care of me when I was a fresh­man and so on." 
The upperclassmen emphasize fresh­man orientation and strive to make their new arrivals feel at home. Although the freshmen live together on the first and second floors and consequently get to know each other well, that does not stop 
What's the defining aspect of Alumni Hall? 

"It's the center of the universe. " 
Justin Heberle junior, Alumni Hall 

"Ladies love us." 
Clifford Jefferson sophomore, Alumni Hall 



them from befriending upperclassmen. In addition. Alumni's rector, rather George Hozum. receives picturns of the incoming freshmen over the summer and learns their names and faces so he can greet them personally upon arrival. 
"He's a big pa.rt of the ha.II. Anyone who lives in Alumni knows about Father George." Pierce added. "lle's been thern sincA 1978." 
Like Notre Dame in general, a strong sense of tradition characterizes this his­toric dorm. Hesidents may not have air conditioning and the spacious luxuries of newer dorms. but Pierce explained, "there's something to tradition ... I had an older guy come by and knock on the door to see his old room to show his kid around." 
The chapel is another aspect of the hall's history as most of the stained glass windows were donated by past classes, intending to immortalize their time as Alumni Dawgs. Although modern changes have been made along the way. their spirit remains. 
At Sunday night Mass, that spirit per­sists as "the world's most dangerous Mass choir and band" provides the music. Almost an orchestra, instruments range from guitars to a flute to an Egyptian drum, and two pews of singers enliven the Mass. 
The last Mass of the year, dedicated to the graduating seniors, is especially unforgettable because Father George roasts the seniors in his homily. Over the years, he collects little. humorous ­sometimes embarrassing -stories to share with the students. 
"There was one who dated three 

women for the Wake and got away with it until the roast," Father George added with a laugh. 
Of course. no one can ignore Alumni's most widely known tradition, the Wake. though it's "shrouded in mystery." Started in 1981, thr, custom parodies an Irish wake as students, wearing only boxers and tics, process across campus carrying a used steel casket and singing loudly, often through the South Bend ele­ments of rain and snow. 
The Wake Dance elaborates on this them<~ as each section wakes a different dead person and decorates appropriat(i­ly. Such celebrated figures of past Wakes include Bridget Maguire's, Chris Farley and Bernie from "Weekend at Bernir,'s." At the stroke of midnight. all the Dawgs and their dates gather down in the stuffy basement for the casket, containing Father George, to be brought in. 
"The first time I went in." said Father George, "I was a little queasy. I was shut in and there are no latches inside. 
"It's comfortable. however. It's got a nice little mattress and pillow," he added upon reflection. 
Alumni men also enjoy strutting their stuff across campus by continuing the informal tradition of the "Bun Hun." For those trapped in the library during finals week, they are subject to the sight of masked Dawgs taking a break from all the studying and stress by streaking. Warning: witnesses see a completely dif­ferent side ofAlumni Hall. 
It's nothing too bad, though. Just proof of their laid-back nature. According to Pierce, "The guys in Alumni are good guys. All-around, they like to have fun and are good students." 


----7 
-
s 

--~---­
•I 


O
THE 
Wedneday, November 3, 1999 BSERYER page 13 
SCENE ASKS 
What's the defining aspect of Badin Hall? 

"/ really like Badin because it's very easy to get to know everyone since it :s· so small" 
... 
Megan Fischer junior, Badin Hall 


... 

Marie Walsh and Shannon Stanley freshmen, junior, Badin Hall 
Smallish Badin shines big-time in '99 
l:'ditor"s note: Scene will .fea/ure the The women of Badin Hall often feel books and overpriced Notre Dame the wooden paneling. What these peo­c!urms of Notre /)cune and Sainf this particular irritation. Bocause of merchandise increased, it was decided ple don't know is that just last month. Mary ·s throuylwut lhe fall and spring its small size and peculiar position that the bookstore be moved out of' the nir.e sink in room 218 fell out of senws/.ers. l\11_11rme interested in wril­facing a large r,onstruction pit rather Badin and into the bog. And so it was. the wall. Another sink der.ided to inf/ a feature of a dorm should e-mail than a quad like all the other dorms, From 1967 on, Badinites took il purge itself of its contents, and those Scene at .'i"renr•@nd.edu. Badin is frequently ovr.rlooked. upon themselves to entertain those of sinks from floors above it, all over 
Those who are unaware of Badin, coming and going from the bookstore an unsuspecting tooth-brusher. and even some who are aware of ti• by taking advantage of their presti­Despito all of this and more, the
By MOLLY McSI-IANE 
dorm, am also oblivious to its rich his­gious balcony. They would hire bands Badin Bullfrogs remain in high spirits
Stern: Wri tcr 
tory. Badin was one of the first rcsi­to play there as they danced on the and continue to be proud of where d1111ce halls, dating back to 1897. The roof. On football weekends, a banner they livo. During freshmen orientation, 
Wh1•n !ll'Oj)IP think or "coilPge lil'll,"' initial use of' Badin llall was not to would be hung reading "BADIN BIDS:" the first-year women of Badin could Owy think of' movitis. "Animal House" house Notre Dame students, but to and then an ill-wish for that week's be seen marching around campus and "Tim ltnvP11g1! ol' llw Nerds" all teach and house young men training opponent, such as "BUHY THE B0IL­cheering for their hall just like any too oftp11 snrvn as a dnlinition of what to be blacksmiths, carpenters, brick­ERMAKEHS." dorm with sinks that slay in the wall. rnl11•~n is supposnd lo l.H1 likn. Thal is layors, tailors and farmers. The popularity of Badin increased. Signs above freshmen rooms 244 why sonw p1ioplP are so surprised to Now how many other halls can brag Slips that had to be filled out whenev­and 243 proudly read "Born to be lnarn that a largt! university like Notre that their building used lo be a school er a studont was planning on staying Badin," and a popular motto among Damn has no sororities or fraternities. for manual labor? Not many, and out for the night began to consistently the 130 or so Bullfrogs is "good things Tlwy cannot imagiiw a 1'.ollnge without that's for darn sure. read "Badin Hat!" in the space provid­come in small packages." initiations and CnH1k lettnrs on evnry-It wasn't until 1918 that "St. ed for destination. Badin was known, This year, Badin's hall staff consists 01w ·s shirts. Joseph's School" becamn a residence officially, as "where it's at. where it's of rnctor Nancy Cook, assistant rector 
Bui Notn! Dame makes up for this hall and had its name changod to at." Thore were two turntables and a Gail Navarro and resident assistants s1~rious dPl'icieucy wilh its rnsidoncn honor Fathc1r Stephen Badin, who pro­microphone, or so the stories say. Katy Fallon, Cheryl Asci and Loubol ­halls. Studnnls here will, in most vided the land for the University and And then. in 1972, there was a dras­Cruz. The dorm presidents are casns. liVll in Lim sanrn dorm as long as built the original log cabin. tic change. Badin and Walsh Halls Theresa Bresnahan, Priscilla Clements lh1iy arP on campus, unlik11 most For Urn next 52 years, Badin Hall Wt!re ofl'ernd up as sacrifice to the and Zesha Holyfield. Hall council srliools ,vlwrn 1Htcll hall is dnsignatod was homo to young men attending the incoming Saint Mary's women. It was meets every Tuesday night to work on for slucl,mls of a particular y1H,r. This University. These men gave Badin its a sad, sad day for many Badinites. A making Badin an even better place to charal:tl!l'islic of Notro Damn housing history. Its traditions. Tho littlo quirks wreath was hung on the front door in live, and just bnfore fall break, tlwre -along wil11 tlw 11vcw-p·opular singln that 111akn what would otherwise be a mourning, and a letter was written to was an exciting decision to get an ice smc living arrnllg'!!IIWIILS -1111tkes tlw hl<'ak old building a home. Of coursn. The 0bs,•rvcr expressing their disap­machine in the laundry room. dorms lwn• 011 campus much likt: liv­all of these special memories had been pointment and sadness. But what was It also seems that Badin is on the ing-in a frutnrnity or sorority. Thero long forgottnn. That is. until now. done was done, and tho Badinitos verge of a comeback. Tim flag f'ootball arn traditions and songs and ovPn Surprisingly enough, Badin llall moved on. team made it to the playoffs for the sonw initiations that give !lar.h hall a used to be a happening spot back in On Feb. 14, 1972, a new tradition first timn in as long as anyone can snns1! of brotlwrhood or sisterhood. !Im dav. Even beforn the old book­was started for the new residents of remember with a 2-2-2 rncord. Sncond 
This is why studPnts horP at Notrn storo's ·demolition, tho large space of Badin Ilall: complaining and moaning. floor HA Katy Fallon lead the non-foot­llanw ll'-1Hl to I}(' quitn parlial to thoir open grass in front uf' the dorm got its An article was printed in The Observer ball players in starting the first-ever dorm. Tht•y dPl'Pnd it. Tlrny love it. name -"Badin Bog" -from the by a Saint Mary's student explaining Badin Hall cher.rloading squad for the Tlwy dwor for it at pnp rnllics. Upon always-efficient draining system here why Badin was a "pit." Apparently, big game last Sunday against Welsh. .. nwNing f<'llow stu<lunts, tlrn common at Notre Dame and its effm:ts on the the termites were a problem with the Their complicated stunts wern said prnliminary question is "Wlwrn do you linld during thn rainy months. Thi! bog new inhabitants, and the rooms wern to haVl~ been so good, that there is talk live'?" And t.lrn answN givon will usu­was used /'or many intramural sport cramped compared to the spacious liv­of some "reorganization" of the ally lead to c•p r Iuin prcco 11t:e pt ions competitions, including "bog ball," as ing at Saint Mary's. Fighting Irish football cheerleaders for and/or qtrnstions about that particular well as cvnryday holly-gaggling and Complications such as these ended the Boston College gamo. hall. Sonrntimcis. howovnr, after high jinks. up simply adding to the spirit of living Little by little, Badin is making its answl'ring this qtH•stion, a student is During this time, the first f'loor of' in Badin Hall, and they still do today. way into the spotlight. Soon there will asked, "Wlwrc is that'?" When this Badin was used for many different When oulsiders visit Badin, they com­be no more uncertainties as to where happnns. IH\ or she lnnds to gnt a little purpos1~s. including th~1 barber shop mr.n t on its nicr., old architecture. exar.tly Badin Hall is. It will simply be l'rustralod. and the bookstore. But as the need for They like the look of the old sinks and known as "where it's at." 
'• 

r 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, November 3, 1999 
-
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Griffey Jr. turns down Mariners' offer; asks to be traded 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE 

Ken Griffey Jr., wanting to play closer to his home in Florida. rejected Seattle's eight­year contract offer and the Mariners said thev will trv to trade the 10-timo All-Star. · 
Seattle presented Griffey a new contract proposal on July 17 -a deal thought to be worth $135 million, which would have made Griffey the highest-paid player in baseball. 
"This has been an extremely difficult decision for me,'' Griffey said in a joint statement he released with the team. "Mariners fans throughout the Pacific Northwest have been very loyal and devoted to me. I will truly miss them." 
Griffey hit 48 homers this year after hitting 56 in consecutive seasons. The center fielder, who turns 30 later this month. has 398 career homers and is thought to have the best chance among current players of breaking Hank Aaron's record of 755. 
"The Mariners agrfled to Ken's request and will seek to trade him during the current offseason," the joint statement said. 
Griffey, who has veto power over any deal because he is a 10-year veteran who has played five years with his current team, and his agent, Brian Goldberg, met Monday in Orlando, Fla., 
.. with Mariners chairman Howard Lincoln. president Chuck Armstrong and new gen­eral manager Pat Gillick. Lincoln told a news confer­ence that Griffey "has clearly been agonizing over this deci­sion for some time," and that it was "a difficult loss" for the team. He praised Griffey, however, for wanting to spend more time with his two young children. 
"This is not a decision I can quarrel with or argue with, it's only a decision that I can respect," Lincoln said. 
"lt strictly has to do with fami­ly, time and geography," Goldberg said. 
Gillick, hired last week to replace the retiring Woody Woodward. said the Mariners hope to get the most value they can for Griffey. He has no timetable and hopes to get "four players of quallty." 
"I think our goal is to obtain players that we think can help us in 2000, but I think we have to look a little bit further ahead than 2000," said Gillick, former general manager in Toronto and Baltimore. "In a package for Kenny, I think you'll be look­ing for a mix of players who can help you for the moment and in the future." 
Gillick said he expected a backlash by Mariners' fans. 
"No matter who you get, the fans and the media are not going to think you got equal value," he said, adding, "We're not going to move him unless we think we get value." 
Goldberg did not say where Griffey prefers tu play and did not completely rule out Griffey returning to play for Seattle, saying, "You never know." 
"The Mariners have done everything humanly possible to keep Ken Griffey Jr. a Seattle Mariner," Lincoln said. "While we are disappointed, we deeply respect Ken's decision to put his family ahead of everything else." 
Griffey and Seattle's other star, shortstop Alex Rodriguez, are eligible for free agency after next season. 
"We are leaving it up to them to explore what they need to," Goldberg said from his Cincinnati office. "We're confi­dent this is going to work out for everybody." 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit
CLASSIFIEDS 
• all classifieds for content without issuing refunds . 
Loving ND-SMC couple wishes to  ND Students: Need a new car?  ND Football tix  Funky GOURDS  
adopt.Will provide a lifetime of  Convince us (in 500 words or less)  BOUGHT & SOLD  
NOTICES  laughter,Iove,devotion and opportu­nities.  that you're the one who deserves it, And we'll send you a brand new  FOR SALE  AM -232-2378 PM -288-2726  Three for a dollar!!  
800-484-4699 code 0019  Volkswagon Beetle!  Fun imaginative shapes  
THE COPY SHOP  Check us out at Winningletter.com  Spring Break Specials!Bahamas  FOR SALE  
La Fortune Student Center  To our 4am inquirer: all info kept in  
 Party Cruise 5 Days $279! Includes  N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS  Agnes Bill rocks the v-ball courts!  
PHONE 631-COPY  total confidence.Please call back  Meals!  CALL 271-9412  Yeah, Go BELLES1!!  
www.CopyShopND.com  anytime.Our prayers are with you.  FOR RENT  Awesome  
Store Hours  Beaches,Nightlife!Cancun &  WANTED: 4 Tenn. Tix  Ms. Wade ­WOO HAA! That was  
Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight  Free One Bedroom Apartment near  Jamaica 7 Nights From $399!  312-951-5008  just for you. ·  
Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm  Campus  ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE  Florida I II  
Sat: Noon-6:00pm  A family with three children seeks  HOME FOR  $129!springbreaktravel .com  ELTON JOHN TICKETS  ND boys: Looking to improve your  
Sun: Noon-Midnight  fun,energetic student or graduate to  ND-SMC EVENTS.  1-800-678-6386  272-7233 GOOD SEATS.  cuddling skills? call Kelle or Kristin  
live in charming apartment for  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  at 4-2353  
WANT TO LEARN ABOUT  FREE in exchange for mutually  243-0658.  FOR SALE  I need one BC ticket  interviews will follow  
THE LAW? ND Law School  agreeable babysitting responsibili- N.D. FOOTBALL TIX  Call Holden  
needs volunteers to be jurors  ties.Fax name.phone # and brief  THAT PRETTY PLACE,  CALL271-9412  634-4788  Hey Tara. you are the greatest  
in mock trials on Dec. 4 & 5.  note describing experience and  Bed and Breakfast Inn has space  roommate ever!!  
Staff, faculty and students are  interests to Walker at 233-2308.  available for football/parent wknds.  FOR SALE  NEED BC TIX.  
welcome. Please call Gloria  5 Rooms with private baths, $80­ N.D. FOOTBALL TIX  CALL MARY AT  Good luck on your exams, Lauren!  
Krull at 631-6860 to sign up.  WANTED: DRUMMER  $115, Middlebury, 30 miles from  CALL 271-9412  219-257-1141.  
& BASSIST  campus. Toll Road Exit #107, 1­ Hi Kate and Keara and Bo!  
800-418-9487  . Phone Cards 669min. $20  
..  LOST & FOUND  NOTRE DAME SHENANIGANS SHOW CHOIR is looking for a drummer & bassist to pertorm for X·  HOUSES HOUSES HOUSES DOMUS PROPERTIES HAVE  243-9361 or 258-4805 SONY 6 DISC CD PLAYER  PERSONAL  John WASTE OF SPACE Daily John I GET DOMINATED BY MATT  
mas concert.No experience necces- AVAILABLE 5,6,7,8 & 10-BORM  remote, tuner, works well  Gay, Lesbian and Bisexual  CASHORE ON A REGULAR  
Lost: earring, sliver and amathyst,  sary.Must attend 3 dates, including  HOUSES FOR THE  asking $75 B/0 John "1684  students of ND/SMC meeting each  BASIS Daily  
sentimental value. Oct. 13 between  evenings of Dec 6 and7.Equipment  '00-01 SCHOOL YEAR. ONLY 15  Thurs. For info call:  
DeBartolo. stadium parking lot. and  can be provided.Wages nego- LEFT. CALL  (877)631-60UT  John HSU'S BETTER HALF Daily  
Decio, 233-8672  liable.Call office @1-5896 or Bryan @4-3044.  274-1501 OR 234-2436, ASK FOR KRAMER FOR SHOWING.  TICKETS  FAX IT FAST!!!  John I SHOULD SHOWER Daily  
WANTED  NOTRE DAME SHENANIGANS  WALK TO SCHOOL  WANTED NOTRE DAME FOOT- Sending & Receiving at THE COPY SHOP  John NO RESPONSIBILITY Daily  
SHOW CHOIR is also DESPERAT- http://mmmrentals.homepage.com  BALL TICKETS  LaFortune Student Center  
 
l Y seeking a male performer to  232-2595 or  271-1526  Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1  John THE MORON Daily  
••• ACT NOW!CALL FOR THE  complete its ensemble for X-mas  mmm.rentals@aol.com  FAX IT FAST!!!  
BEST SPRING BREAK  concert.No experience necessary.6  SELL & BUY GA FOOTBALL TICK- John I LIKE MY PANTS AROUND  
PRICES!SOUTH PADRE.CAN­ week commitment,wl 2nd semester  Two roommates/ hot chicks wanted  ETS  Spring Break 2000 Free Trips &  MY ANKLES Daily  
CUN,JAMAICA,BAHAMAS,ACA­ membership op,nial.Rehearsals  for 8 bedroom house next year. Call  277-6619  Meals.  
PULCO,FLORIOA & MARDI  occur Weds 9:30-11 PM & Suns 3·  4511 for info. Dorks welcome!!  Jamalca.Cancun,Bahamas,Barbad  John MY JOKES SUCK Daily  
GRAS.REPS NEEDED...TRAVEL  6PM.Musl also commit to evenings  FOR SALE  os,Florida,Padre.Book now for Free  
FREE,EARN $$$.DISCOUNTS  of Dec 6 & 7 .A great way to meet  4-6 student rental houses. Lots of  BC & ELTON JOHN tix.  Meals & 2 Free Trips.Book before  John I WANT NOOKIE WITH  
FOR 6+.  girls.Call office @ 1-5896 or Bryan  extras. Huge Party Room.  Best Prices  Dec. 17 for LOWER PRICES!!  NUTTY THE SQUIRREL Daily  
800-638-8203  @4-3044.  Washer/Dryer, etc.  AM • 232·2378  1800-426-7710  
WWW.LEISURETOURS.COM  Dave 291-2209.  PM · 288-2726  www.sunsplashtours.com  John NOW I AM PUNISHED Daily  


I I 
I 
I 


Wednesday, November 3, 1999 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15
.;;;;;_~~~~=======:===========~===================================-=---===============-==:..::.,_ --=:..-_ ---­
The University of Notre Dame 
cordially invites you to attend a special evening celebrating the life and ministry of 
Reverend Leon Sullivan 
1999 Notre Dame Award Rec-ipient 
7:30 p.m. 

Prayer service and award ceremony 
Jordan Auditorium College of Business Administration Reception to follow in the foyer of the auditorium 
Rev. Sullivan will sign copies of his new book, "Moving Mountains," from 1-2 p.m. today at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 


.. 
Rev. Leon Sullivan 
civil rights leader and 
pastor emeritus of 
Zion Baptist Church, 
Philadelphia 
"Leon Sullivan's struggle against racial prejudice and economic injustice has been lifelong, exemplary and inspiring. In honoring his life and work, we hope to recommit ourselves to the same struggle. " 
-Father Malloy 

Wednesday, November 3, 1999

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Redmond: You can't trust women 
source.

. Sun Devil player Redmond has filed for 
wed ASU employee divorce and has told investiga­tors he believes Arthur was
to keep eligibility 
trying to take financial advan­tage of him by inducing him to Associated Press 
marry her. According to the university's
TEMPE, Ariz. 
report to the NCM, Redmond J.R. Redmond isn't talking 
used Arthur's cellular tele­

about the details of his mar­phone, and later she told him riage to a part-time employee that the only way he could of the Arizona State athletic avoid losing his eligibility to department or his subsequent play football would be to marrypunishment by the NCAA. 
her.
But the Sun Devils' star tail­
She told investigators she back said he "learned some 

had cleaned Redmond's apart­valuable lessons." 

ment and filled his refrigerator 
"One, nothing is for free. 
with food while he was away at Two, you can't trust women," training camp. Arthur, a full­Redrnond said after his team's time student at Arizona State,practice Tuesday. 

resigned from her athletic 
Redmond spoke to reporters department job last Friday. 

for the first time since the The couple married at a bizarre tale surfaced last 
Mesa wedding chapel on Aug.Friday. 25. He filed for divorce on Oct. 
The NCAA suspended him 
22.

from last Saturday's game at Redmond told universitv 
Oregon and ordered him to 
investigators that he believed repay $418 in cellular phone 

Arthur was trying to gain

bills and $173 for a Las Vegas 
access to some of his future 

trip he took with his new wife. 
earnings, which could be con­lie also must do 20 hours of siderable because he is a topcommunity service. The money NFL prospect.

is to go to charity. 
Arthur and her lawyer dis­
"You always feel bad missing pute Redmond's version. 

a game," Redmond said. "But I 
She told The Arizona 

paid the price, and it's over." 
Republic that the relationshipThe penalties stemmed from was based on "genuine love." 

the NCAA's finding that the Arthur, 31, said Redmond 
.. help Redmond received from had a key to her house, came Francine Arthur amounted to there often and became close 
benefits from an improper 
to her two children. 



Domino's Pizza Delivery to NDISMCIHC 
271-0300 
EARLY WEEK SPECIAL! 
Every Monday, Tuesday, & Wednesday 
The weekend isn't too far away... 
.-------------------,
I 2 Large Pizzas w/ Cheese I I $899 I 
I I
$1 Per Topping 
I I I Add Breadsticks for $1 I I Good every Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday I 
I Visa/Mastercard/Discover and Checks Welcome! I 
L-------------------J 
Please recycle The Observer. 
Notre Dame Right to Life Presents: 
Dawn Kober, Abortion Survivor 
"The day I attended a pro-choice rally was the day my parents told me they tried to abort me." 
Wednesday, November 3, 1999 at 8:00 p.m. Center for Social Concerns Classroom 
All are welcomed to attend and hear this remarkable story! 

Wednesd:iy, November 3, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 


MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Gonzalez traded to Detroit 
Smith, celebrating his wedding 

Associated Press 
anniversary in Maui, said: "II" you're going to deal with pre­AHLINGTON. Texas mier players, there's always a

Two-timn AL MVP .Juan 
chance they'll walk. But you

Gonzalez was tradml f'rom the have lo dare to b,, good.
Texas Hangers to the Detroit 
"It's very difficult lo entice a

Tig,~rs in a nino-playur deal 
f'rce agent to come to a city thatTut!s-day. 

hasn't won recently," he said. 

c;oing wilh Gon-zalez to "Most players have to experi­l)ptroit were ence Detroit topitcher Danny 
see good it is to

Pat-terson and "It's very difficult lo 
play here." 

catchllr Grngg entice a free agent to Gonzalez, aZaun. 
come to a city that two-time All-Star 

The Han-gers outfielder, hit
rn-mivl'd pitchers hmm 't won recently. " 
.326 with 39 

Justin Thompson. 
home runs andAlan Webb and 

Randy Smith 128 RBIs this

Francisco 
year. He led the
Detroit general

Cordero. outlielcl­
Rangers to the

,ir Gab,i Kapler, manager 
catcher Bill llasclman and iII f'ield11 r Fra II k Catalanotto. 
The Tigers get "a franchise player and future Hall or Farner" in Gonzalez. Detroit g<moral manager Handy Smith said. "Wc'vc been working the last coupl1! ol' ye~~rs lo acquire a marqune playnr. 
"I guess it hcatcd up over the last couphi of' days," Texas gen­1iral manager Doug Melvin said. "Wt! had talked about it at lm1gth. Handy Smith has beon on vacation in Hawaii, so it was a long-distance call trying to get tlm deal done." 
Conzall,z, who turned 30 on Oct. 16, was the Al. MVP in 1996 and l9fJ8. Tlrn Tigers have until Saturday to exercise a $7.5 mil­lion option on him !'or next year. and tlw sirlns spoke shortly af'tnr llw trade was made. 
Gonzalez is eligible for free agency allor tlH' 2()00 season. 
"We just wPren't prnpared to ... go into rwxt season with that over our lwads," Melvin said ol' (;onzalcz's Ihm agency. 
• 
0 0 
• 

TIIIJRSDAY MGllf so's MGHI. 
AL West titles in 
1996, 1998 and 
1999, yet all three seasons ended in disap­pointment as each time they were eliminated in the first round of the playoffs by the eventual World Series champion New York Yankees. 
Detroit Wfnt 69-92 last season and finislied third in the AL Central, 27 1/2 games behind Cleveland in their final season at Tiger Stadium. 
The Tigers hope for a fresh start next season when they move into new Comerica Park under newly hired manager Phil Garner. 
"Over the last few years, we have worked hard to develop a farm system with a high talent level and strong depth," Smith said, without which "we could not have made today's deal." 
Melvin said Thompson is high­ly regarded, although the left­hander underwent arthroscopic surgery on his pitching shoulder Aug. 2(>. At the time he was put on the disabled list, then manag­er Larry Parrish said Thompson was "mentally beat up." 

"Whenever there's surgery, there's a certain amount of risk involved," Melvin said. "He was pitching hurt, and that was affecting his last few perfor­mances." 
Thompson, 26, was 9-11 with a 5.11 ERA. He was an All-Star during his first full season in 1997, but has been slowed by injuries. 
In 11 seasons with Texas, Gonzalez batted .294 with 340 home runs and 1,075 RBIs. 
Gonzalez played in 49 games combined for the Rangers in 1989 and 1990 before spending his first full season in the majors in 1991. 
He batted .314 with 47 home runs and 144 RBIs in 1996 as Texas won its first division title, and batted .318 with 45 homers and 157 RBIs in 1998. 
The Puerto Rican native put up more big numbers last sea­son, but his production was somewhat overshadowed by his refusal to play in the All-Star Game and the strong offensive production f'rom teammates Rafael Palmeiro and Ivan Hodriguez. 
Gonzalez and the hard-hitting Rangers also were criticized after getting swept by the Yankees in the opening round. Texas has scored a total of only two runs in their last 60 post­season innings. and lost nine in a row to New York. 
G·onzalez was considered a lock to be one of the reserves chosen for July's All-Star game in Boston, but he told reporters that he would not play in the classic unless he was voted in as a starter by the fans. Melvin and Rangers manager Johnny Oates said they disagreed with Gonzalez's decision, but never criticized him publicly. 
Late Payton served as example to all 
I cried. 
When Walter Payton retired as the leading rusher in NFL history back in 1987, when I was still fresh off my eighth birthday, I just start­ed crying. 
My favorite player­the man I tried to be like when I was run­ning around in those neighbor­hood backyards playing two-on­two football with my friends ­was gone. Before I wanted to be like Mike, I wanted to be like Walter. 
Monday, after a fight with bile duct cancer, Payton died at the young age of 45. 
Becauso of my young age, my memories of my favorite player aren't many and the ones I do have aren't crystal­clear photographs imprinted in my mind forever. 
I remember an NFL Films video I had with a segment on JOP (jumping over the pile), a form of a touchdown plunge that Walter pioneered for goal line situations. Here, instead of' pounding hard, he took the ball from the quarterback and dove head first at what seemed to be about 10 feet above the pile of' linemen and linebackers into the serenity of the waiting end zone. 
I remember the Chicago Bears on the original Tecmo Bowl for Nintendo and how much you had to respect its running game because a com­puter representation of num­ber 34 would make you pay if you didn't. 
I remember asking my mom to save a Wheaties box with a painting of Walter on it that came out just a few years ago. I couldn't put my finger on his stats and didn't have replays of his great runs on repeat on the highlight reel ofmy mind. 
I did know, however, he was a pretty special person, one whom I felt I had a special relationship with eveff if I had never met him or couldn't remember a lot about what he did. 
The one specific instance I do remember is that last play he ever ran, fighting and strug­gling so hard not to go down that he ended up under the H.edskins' bench as the linal whistle blew. 
My tears started to llow as I stood in the warmth of our laundry room on a cold winter 


Ted Fox 
Fox Sports ... Almost 
, 

day, asking my mom as she 
moved clothes from the washer 
to the dryer, why Walter 
wasn't going to play anymore. 
After she responded, I went outside to play football. What else would I have dome? My face was still wet and my con­science guilty for going out to do something that was sup­posed to be fun on such a sad day. I was mourning the loss of my favorite football player. 
Today, the world and espe­cially his family mourn the loss of a great man. 
At his press conference on Tuesday, Bob Davie told of how last December he made a recruiting visit to the Payton family to talk to Jarrett Payton. ­now a player for the University of Miami. about coming to Notre Dame. 
Davie said Payton didn't want his son to be a running back because. "I don't think he wanted the comparisons made between .Jarrett and Walter. 
".Just to be in his home and see how much he cared about that son and that daughter was really impressive to me," Davie said. 
Here was one of the greatest players in all of football histo­ry, someone with enough knowledge of the game to be coaching somewhere himself, and, in Davie's words, "[He) was just a dad. I was just impressed with the type of father he was." 
..

When Walter retired, I was too young to really understand what a great person he was or how much he cared for people. I cried anyway. 
Even now, I still don't know a whole lot about him as a per­son or even remember how he racked up those 16,726 yards rushing. 
I can't fully comprehend the reason why my eyes lit up a couple of Christmases after he retired when I received a Walter Payton football under the tree or the reason I've saved the ball even though it got punctured in one of our neighborhood battles. 
Even with scattered memo­ries and a limited access to "Walter Payton, the man," I still feel I and all of us, no mat­ter how unfamiliar we are with him, lost a great deal on Monday. 
Special people have a way of conveying the magnitude of who they are, what they stand for, and they make others around them feel special by just being themselves. 
Thank you, Walter, for giving all of' us that very special gift. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
'I 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, November 3, 1999 
VOLLEYBALL 
Belles advance with quarterfinal win over Hornets 
The Belles came out and 

By MOLLY McVOY 
scored first in the second 

Assistant Sports Editor 
game and took a 3-0 lead, but Kalamazoo came back and Persistence was the word of took control. Saint Mary's the day for the Saint Mary's gave up numerous points volleyball team. because of fundanwntal mis­
After defeating Kalamazoo takes. Double hits and lifting College Tuesday, the Belles calls haunted the Belles. The n o w Hornets stepped up play in move on MIAA this game and won, 15-9. to Hope "In the second game, we
Quarterfinals

College were a little frustratrd with
Game 1

in their our passing," Ozbolt said. drive to Belles 15, Hornets 7 Saint Mary's completely win the turned it around in Game 3.
Game2 

-
MIAA Again. the Belles came out champi­Hornets 15, Belles 9 and scored first, taking a com­onships. manding 7 -0 lead. Kalamazoo
Game 3 
T h e came back and scored their
Belles 15, Hornets 1

Hornets only point of the game, but did not Game 4 Saint Mary's regained posses­let the sion of the ball and finished
Belles 15, Hornets 11

Belles off the game, winning 15-1. wiu easi-"Instead of focusing on indi­ly, hut viduals. we played as a team," Saint Mary's proved to be the Shields said. "That was the stronger team. difference from the second 
"Everyone pulled together as game." a team," head coach Randa The fourth game proved to Shields said. "They played be a test for the Belles' deter­well as a unit." mination. With the score tied 
The Belles defeated the at four each, there were eight Hornets in four games, 15-7, possession changes before 9-15, 15-1, 15-11. Agnes Bill either team scored again. led the Belles with 18 kills, The Belles scored and 
and Emily Nihill led with 12 brought the score to 6-4 in digs. Jayne Ozbolt and Ann favor of Saint Mary's. There Bill both had two aces each. were seven more possession 
Saint Mary's came out and changes before the Belles dominated in the first game, scored again. At one point, it consistently leading by seven was 14-9 Saint Mary's and it
.. points or more. The Bill sisters appeared the Belles had it led tlie Belles in both serving wrapped up. Kalamazoo and hitting in Game 1. brought it as close as 14-11 Kalamazoo looked confused before Saint Mary's won the from the start, and the Belles game. had control of both the ball Saint Mary's moves on to and the pace of the game. play Hope College, ranked first 
"When we played in the MIAA. If they win this [Kalamazoo] three weeks ago, game, they will go on to play we played decent, but we for the championship. weren't working as a team," "Going into Friday, we have senior middle hitter Ozbolt to focus on them being any said. "But today, we came out other team, not Hope," Shields good in the first game and said. "We have to play our worked as a team." game against them." 
'f 

NELLIE WILLIAMS/The Observer Jayne Ozbolt (left) lofts the ball over the hands of Kalamazoo's Jodi Pung (4) and Lisa Harron (11.) in the Belles' win over the Hornets Tuesday. · 

GOT A WORD FOR OUR TASTY NEW CHICKEN CLUB SANDWICH' 
(RAVEABLE. 
(Jr's NOT A REAL WORD, BUT WE LIKE IT.) 

THE TASTY CHICKEN CLUB IS HERE TO STAY. 
One bite of the delicious Chicken Club, and you'll always crave the flavor ol its all-white-meat chicken topped with crispy bacon, tresh lettuce and tomato and mayonnaise. And that's no prot,lem. because now this ultra-satisfying sandwich is here to stay at BURGER KING" So come on 1n and indulge your craving 

The Hl.ddle · LaFortune Student Center 
IT JUST TASTES BtTTER: 
www burgerk1ng corn
PARTICIPATION MAY VARY 
Please recycle The Observer 
GOVERNMENT MAJORS 
Bring your resume to the 
SPRING INTERNSHIP INFORMATION MEETING 
Monday, November 8 
4:30 -5:30 p. m. Flanner Hall, Room G20 
and 
• 
meet representatives from local agencies, 

• 
talk to a Career Counselor, 

• 
~ for a spring internship. 


Application Deadline is November 30. 
All majors are welcome. 
Questions? Internship Coordinator 631-8248 gointern. l@nd.edu 
This meeting is co-sponsored by the Department ofGovernment and rhe Career Center. 

Wednesday, November 3, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
MEN's SOCCER 
Showdown with Pirates has postseason implications 

Notre Dame travels to Seton Hall for a conference matchup with the Pirates. The Irish can secure a berth in the Big East tournament with a win. 
AT TIAA-CREF, LOW EXPENSES ARE A IDGH PRIORITY. 
All financial companies charge operating fees and expenses ­some more than others. Of course, the lower the expenses you pay, the better. That way, more ofyour money goes where it should -toward building a comfortable future. 
As the largest retirement system in the world, 1 we have among the lowest expenses in the insurance and mutual f'und industries.2 
In fact, TIAA-CREF's 0.35% average fund expenses are a fraction of the expense charges of comparable funds.3 It's one reason why Morningstar says, "TIAA-CREF sets the standard in the 
ii Ensuring the future for those who shape it.™ 
financial services industry." 
A focus on your future Of course, expenses are only one factor to consider when you malie an invest­ment decision. Morningstar also noted our commitment to "consumer education, service" and "solid investment perfor­mance." Because that can make a differ­ence in the long run, too. 
At TI:J\A..CREF, we believe people would lil.e to spend more in retirement, not on their retirement company. Today, over two million people count on that approach to help them build financial security. So can you. 
To find out more -give us a call or visit our website 
I 800 842-2776 www.tiaa-cref.org 
l lbsi.•J un S2M billion in ~w11 umfor m,magcmcnt. 1 ,\)a,,Jn,.J ~,• P.111r:, /11,mm'1a Rnlii1,I/ A111di1i,. 1999,· and J.ippcr Analytical Servkc!I, Im:., fi'pptr•fliri•,'f1'll.1 '1foa(vlf~.JI D,1fa 1999 (quancrly). $il/,,mU1_11,l/ar Vnrinh/111Jm11itit,J/Jf(, W30/19'JlJ. Of the ti,3.12 variable anm1irics 1r,1l'ked by Moming::;tar, th<' average fund had tu1al fcM. combining J.nnual e:-tpcn~ ol' 0.8.% plu-. an in~urann' t'XPl'llM.' of 1.16%. TIAA-CREF rx1w-nscs arc !tubjcd lo c!Mnsc mul arc uni gt1,u'anh!.,J for Lhc fu1ure. Pasl pc1fon11ancc h no gllaranl!:l' of fu1u~ results, Tlt\A-CRgF lnJiviJu,.I ;uni lm,1i1u1iu11,J St-rviet!I Ji'-1rihu1e~ CREF ccrtili~'ale!!. ,md in1ere111r. in lhl' TIAA Rl•al !;:.,;tale Al'nltlnt. l•"or more rnmJlictc informalion, including charge~ and c,c_pense~. call I NOO X42.171b. l'11crniion S.r,ott, for prO!!pel·luscs. Read 1hrm l'arcfully bcl'nn• _\'UU invelil or ,cnJ money. 
8"1) 
By KERRY SMITH 
Sports Writer 
The playoffs are beginning 
early for the Notre Dame 
men's soccer team this year. 
And with one regular season game left on the schedule, the Irish can't afford to Regular lose. 
Season
The Irish 
Finale
take the field against Rig Notre Dame East rival 
at Seton Hall
Seton Mall today, as the Carroll Field two teams 
Today, 1 p.m.
compete for the final spot in the Big East tournament. The Irish must earn a win or tie to con­tinue their season. If they lose the season is over. 
With their future uncertain, the Irish realize the impor­tance that rests on the match­up with the Piratt's. 
"We have to focus," said head coach Mike Berticelli earlier in the week. "Seton Hall will be our biggest game of the season." 
Today's game will solidify the final spot in the tourna­ment seedings. 
With only eight spots in the tournament, the Irish are just beyond the boundaries of postseason play at the ninth spot. With a win over the Pirates, the Irish would jump to the seventh spot and the Providence Friars would fall to eighth place. 
If Notre Dame comes away with a tie, the Irish and the Friars would tie for the eighth spot on points. Because the Irish downed the Friars 4-0 earlier in the regular season the tournament spot would be awarded to Notre Dame. 
A Pirate victory would auto­matically eliminate the Irish from a tournament berth. 
The Irish face a big chal­lenge as they go up against the Pirates. Boasting one of the best attack players the Big East has to offer in forward Peter Scavo, the Irish defense will be put to the test. 
"Seton Hall has the leading 

scorer in the conference," said 
Berticclli. "And offensively, 
they are potentially a very 
explosive team." 
The Irish have focused on 
tightening up their defense in 
practice this week in anticipa­
tion of a steady Pirate attack. 
Berticelli stressed that in 
order to win the Irish defense 
must be at a point where it 
allows no goals to be scored 
by an opponent. 
The Pirates started out the 
'99 campaign on a strong 
note, winning eight of their 
first nine contests and tallying 
31 goals in the process. But as 
October arrived, a different 
team emerged from the Seton 
Hall benches. The Pirates 
have lost six of their last eight 
outings, managing to rack up 
only seven goals. 
The Irish also have endured a season of ups and downs. With inexperience as their biggest weakness, the Irish fought their way through a tough beginning stretch. 
Even though Notre Dame outplayed and pounded away at the goal in each of their games, the forward line couldn't produce. 
Scoring only five goals in their first eight games -a record low for any Irish men's soccer squad in the school's history -the Irish found themselves with a 3-4-1 record and in the midst of a three-game losing streak. 
The Irish began to find holes in the goal, and with the help of' leading scorer Erich Braun, went on a winning streak that peaked at four, increasing the team's record to 7-4-1. 
Now, trying to free them­selves from a four-game slump, the Irish stand at 8-7-2 in regular season action. 
Road trips have not been kind to Notre Dame this sea­son. The squad has managed to come away with an away­game victory only once this season, while dropping five games and tying their oppo­nents twice. 
A win over Seton Hall today would put Notre Dame's over­all record at 9-7-2 and earn them their fourth-straight Big East tournament spot. 
ND Fans!!! 
WHILE IN TOWN FOR THE 
ND/Prrr GAME, 
VISIT 
Mullaney's Harp and Fiddle 
The Best in Irish Entertainment and Food! 
•Open before and after the game 
•Located at the corner of Penn and 29th in the Strip District 
•Only aten minute ride from Pitt Stadium 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, November 3, 1999 
Shay 
continued from page 24 
Notre Dame in track that year due to injury, and returned par­ticularly strongly since his sophomore campaign. Last year in cross country, Shay consis­tently finished first for the Irish. 
lie was the lone Irish runner to qualify for the NCAA cross country championships, based on his 10th-place finish at dis­tricts. He won the Wolf and Kettle Invitational and the Notre Dame Invitational, as well as placing sixth in the Hig East Championships. 
During the 1999 track season, Shay competed at an even high­er level of intensity than he had previously. Although his special­ty is long distances like the SK or lOK, Shay won the Big East 

.. Indoor Championships in the 3,000 meters in a time of 8:20.38. In the outdoor season, he received all-Big East honors in the 5,000 meters and 10,000 meters, where he finished third and second, respectively. He also qualified for the NCAA.s in the l0,000 meters based on bis time of 29:01.59 at the Stanford Invitational. In the nati!rnal 
{ 
meet, Shay placed seventh over­all in the 10,000 meter run, high enough to win All-American recognition. 
Leading the pack 

Coming into Notre Dame, Shay wasn't used to having to cotne from behind. As a high school harrier in Michigan, Shay b1c1canrn the first boy ever to capLurc four state titles, only losing one cross country meet during his entire high school career. 
"He's really become a very patient runner," Piano said, "Where his first couple of years he was very impatient and had to lead a race every step of the way." 
In track, Shay was a three­time champion in the 1,600 and 3,200 meter runs, also earning one state title in the 800-meter run. 
His athletic success carried over onto the national level. Outside of Michigan, Shay won several AAU titles, was the 1995 USA Track and Field 3,000 meter champion and 1996 USATF 5.000 meter champion and placed fourth at the junior national in the 5,000 meter run in 1997. 
"I came from a very large family with four brothers and three sisters," Shay said. "Just being in a family that big, I was always competitive. You've got to be sure of yourself in any­thing you do when you're in that kind of environment." 
All in the family 
Ilunning is something of a requirement for being in tho Shay family. Shay's dad was his cross country and track coach at Central Lake High School in Central Lake, Mich., where he still coaches. Five of Shay's sib­lings ran at the college level, and the remaining two are in eighth and ninth grades. 
Nathan Shay, Ryan's younger brother, is a freshman at Notre Dame, and a member of tho Notre Dame cross country and track learns. Ryan's older broth­er Casey is also currently train­ing with the Irish. Casey gradu­ated from Lubbock Christian, where he was the 1996 NAIA steeplechase champion and a nine-time All-American. Ho hopes to qualify for the 2000 Olympic Trials in the steeple­chase. 
Ryan also has his sights set on the 2000 Olympics. 
"That's one of the major goals by the end of the track season ­to hit the qualifying time that will get me into the Olympic Trials," Shay said. ''I'm pretty sure I can hit that. Hight now we're just focused on cross country." 
The Irish, currently ranked eighth in the nation, will be seeking an automatic berth at nationals with a high finish at districts Nov. 13. Fifth-year run­ner Ryan Maxwell said Shay plays an important role for the Irish. 
"He's a great leader for the team," Maxwell said. "lie sets a good example for the rest of the team with his work ethic. I think it's pretty important that he does well because it really sets the tone for the rest of the team and gives us someone to key off of." 
II' anyone can lead the Irish to victory, it is Shay. Among his accomplishments this season arc a fourth-place finish at the Pre-National meet and a Big East crown, where he ran the third-fastest time ever on the course. His victory in the adi­das/Notre Dame Invitational also branded him as the first Notre Dame runner to win that race in more than 30 years. 

HOMES FOR RENT -Dom us Properties has two, five, six, and nine bedroom student housing available -Student neighborhoods close to , campus -Security systems provided -Well maintained homes -Maintenance staff on call  
Available for the 20001200 I school year BETTER HURRY!!! ONLY S HOUSES LEFT Contact Kramer (219)274-1501 or (219)234-2436 or (219)674-2572  
Information Session Wednesday, November 3rd, 1999 6:00-8:00 pm •Center· for Continuing Education McKenna Hall FOOD• FUN• FACTS Headquartered in Peoria, Illinois, Caterpillar Inc. is the world's largest manu­facturer of construction and mining equipment, natural gas engines and industrial gas turbines, and a leading global supplier of diesel engines. We are a Fortune 50 industrial company with more than $18 billion in assets. Representatives from Caterpillar will be on hand at the Information Session to explain how you fit into the Caterpillar organization. Caterpillar will be inter­viewing on campus students~who have a minimum of 2.80 GPA and who are now U.S. citizens, permanent residents, refugees or asylees. Chemical Engineers at Caterpillar: Initially work in design, process engineering, planning, research and development, and pro­duction of rubber components, hose, plastics, static and dynamic seals, rubber compounding technologies, paint and coatings, process oils and lubricants, and environmental engineering. Electrical and Computer Science Engineers at Caterpillar: Initially work in research, design, and development of controls for equipment and engines including embedded system software, microprocessor applications, electrohydraulics, sensor technology, and control system hardware and software. Caterpillar uses control technology to maintain its glohal leadership position. Positions also exist in Information Services. Mechanical Engineers at Caterpillar: lnitially work in design, analysis, test, simulation, research and concurrent product and process design. Most opportunities arc in drive trains, power systems, and clcctrohydraulics. Mechanical engineers also hold position in Facilities Engineering, Operations, and Marketing. Visit our website at www.CAT.com. CATERPILLAR® An equal opportunity/affirmative action employer. Come join the winning team!  



WeJnesday, November 3, 1999 
The Observer . SPORTS 
, , I ' 
page 21 

FOOTBALL 
Irish prepare for hostile crowd awaiting in Tennessee 

JEFF HSUrTne Observer 
Head coach Bob Davie argues with an official during Saturday's game against Navy. Davie held his weekly press conference Tuesday, expressing concern about crowd noise at Tennessee. 
ATTENTION STUDENTS: 

WHY SELL YOUR USED TEXTBOOKS BACK TO THE BOOKSTORE FOR 
LESS WHEN YOU CAN SELL THEM DIRECTLY TO ANOTHER STUDENT? CAMPUSMONSTER.COM ALLOWS STUDENTS TO SELL THEIR USED TEXTBOOKS TO OTHER STUDENTS. YOU WILL MAKE MORE MONEY AND YOUR FELLOW STUDENTS WILL SAVE MORE! IT'S THAT SIMPLE. 
LOG ON NOW AND LIST YOUR FALL SEMESTER TEXTBOOKS AND GET ENTERED FOR THE CHANCE TO WIN YOUR NEXT SEMESTERS BOOKS FOR FREE!!!! THAT'S RIGHT. WE WILL HOLD A DRAWING ON DECEM­BER 30, 1999 TO FIND THE WINNER OF OUR" SEMESTER FOR FREE" 
--....... 

CONTEST. YOU WILL RECEIVE 1 ENTRY FOR EVERY BOOK YOU LIST. THE MORE BOOKS YOU LIST THE BETTER YOUR CHANCES OF WIN­NING. 
WHEN YOU'RE THERE, GET THE LATEST SCOOP ON WHAT'S HAPPEN­ING AT YOUR COLLEGE OR AT CAMPUSES AROUND THE COUNTRY. THERE'S ALSO A SECTION WITH UP TO DATE SCORES AND COLLEGE NEWS. 
FROM TEXTBOOK SWAPPING, COLLEGE APPAREL AND GAME TICKETS TO THE LATEST CAMPUS NEWS, IT'S ALL JUST A CLICK AWAY AT CAM­PUSMONSTER.COM 

PUSfflODSTDA.GOffl 
"If we don't have it, you can't get it!" 
By TIM CASEY 
Sports Writer 
Venture out to Cartier Field 
on an afternoon in the fall and 
the sounds of colliding shoulder 
pads, screaming coaches and 
chattering players resonatr, 
through the crisp autumn air. 
But this week, in preparation for the 107,000 scn~aming Tennessee fans in Neyland Stadium, Bob Davie and staff decided to add some extra noise to the mix. 
Echoing throughout Cartier Field and inside at the Loftus Sports Center are speakers installed to simulate crowd noise. The added noise caught the team's attention, particular­ly tlrn coaches. 
"We have got this crowd noise thing. It is the most irritating thing you have ever heard in your life," Davie said al Tuesday's press conference. "It sounds like some kind of cult type thing, where they arc chanting something, so we just try to make it as irritating as we can and those coaches hate me for doing it." 
''You can get it so loud that from you to I, we couldn't com­municate," Davie added. "We are going to make it as loud as we can. What happens is we disrupt that campus a little bit sometimes. We get some of' those professors that hear that thing in the background." 
Maybe professors won't mind the added disruption if the Irish are victorious on Saturday. 
Facing the defending national champions featuring an offense led by quarterback Tee Martin and tailback Jamal Lewis and a defense ranking sixth in the nation in total defense (yielding 
279.3 yards per game), the Irish are in for a tough encounter. Mix in a raucous crowd and there's no wonder why Davie is concerned. 
Davie compares the crowd at Tennessee with a familiar foe from the Southeastern confer­ence, 
"It is that LSU-type atmos­phere only with 107,000 people instead of 80,000," Davie said. "Everyone is wearing orange and it is a place where the crowd takes great pride in being a factor in the game. Everyone that I have talked to that have played down there, particularly in a night game, say the people come to life at night." 
A key area of concern for a visiting team in Neyland Stadium is communication. In such a hostile environment sim­ple communication like a snap count can be misconstrued. 
"The advantage goes to the home team, particularly in a stadium like that where the 

Saint Mary's College Apowerful drama based on the actual Vietn8[n War experiences of six American women. 
Thursday -Saturday November 11 -13 at8 p.m. 
Sunday, November 14 at2:30 p.m. Little Theatre 
Box Office at 
284-4626 


crowd is a factor every time the ball is snapped," Davie said. "ll limits what you can do on the line of scrimmage and it a takes away the advantage the offen­sive line has. You end up doing some silent count, things like that, and the advantage goes to the defense without any doubt." 
In addition, the crowd noise can impact the Irish when the Volunteers make u key rlefon­sivc play. After boing flagged for 13 penalties last week against Navy, the Irish can not alford to repeat their mistakes. 
"The big thing for us offen­sively is what do we do after a bad play?" Davie said. "What is that next play wn call'! If we do have a negative play, what can .... we do the next timo to just got ourselves back on rhythm somewhat'!" 
Besides disrupting the flow of the offense, tho crowd noise also has an affect on special teams, an area where thH Irish have benn struggling. In last week's game against Navy, two kicks were blockr,d. 
With a freshman punter (Joey Hildbold). a freshman punt returner (Julius Jones). a sophomore kicker (David Miller) and first year startr,rs at holder (James Caputo) and long snap­per (Gerald Morgan), the special teams unit will have to play beyond their years in order to combat the Volunteers. 
"We are young in those sp!l­cial teams areas and that is a concern," Davie said. 
Though they face a Tennesse!l team that has won 20 home games in a row, Notre Dame has reason to be excited. 
A four-game winning streak has turned around a once dis·­mal 1-3 start. Their three loss!ls against three top 25 teams have been decided in the closing min­utes of the game. A once inex­perienced team has had the opportunity to play eight games against one of the toughest schedules in the country. 
But the Irish also know what the Vols have accomplished in the past few years. In addition to winning the national champi­onship last year, Tennessee also won back-to-back SEC titles. 
"There is a line of respect there as all of us have for their players and the way they coach and the way they have won and the type of environment they create in that stadium, there is respect," Davie said. "They are going to make plays. They are going to disrupt you. The crowd is going to be on top of you. You have got to be able to come back and respond. 
"But it is also a trcm1mdous opportunity," Davie said. "Our ­players aren't going to be bash­ful. If anything, it (the crowd) is going to make them excited to play." 
page 22 
I '' 
I 

-·· 
The Observer . SPORTS 
Wednesday, November 3, 1999 
Irish 
continued from page 24 
We wernn't keeping the ball. We weren't putting things away. We knew what we had to do." 
Streiffer broke the Irish scoring drought in the 57th minute 
,/ when she blasted a hard shot over the head of Hurricane goalkeeper Lovelace Elizaheth Swinson. 
Jen Grubb passed the ball forward to Meotis Erikson who lofted the ball high across the goal to Stroiffer. Streiffer's hard redirection was her 15th goal of the year aud 66th of her career. 
After Streil'fer's goal the Irish continued their onslaught of shots but could not beat Swinson. For the game, the Irish fired 43 shots on net and Swinson made 17 saves -a new Miami record. 
Waldrum was displeased with the effectiveness of his Irish offense but refused to blame the playing conditions. 
"The bounce and the skip 
was a lit bit off but I think the 
field held up pretty well," he 
said. "To get 40 shots on goal 
and only score five, I think 
overall we played pretty well 
but up front I didn't think we 
were very sharp." 
The Irish finally started putting the ball in the back of the net with some consistency in the closing 20 minutes of the game. -Irish senior Jenny Heft scored her 77th career goal in the 74th minute to put the Irish up ·3-0. Makinen fired a shot toward the net that deflected off a Miami defender and rolled in front of the net. Heft followed the shot and got behind the defense to beat 

Swinson from point blank range. 
Freshman Ali Lovelace scored the fourth goal of the game less than one minute latAr. Brown and Streiffer assisted on Lovelace's first career goal. Streiffer fed LoveJar,e at the top of the box where the freshman turned on her defender and beat Swinson. 
"I am glad it finally came," Lovelace said about her first collegiate goal. "I have been waiting for awhile." 
While Lovelacc·s first goal did not come until the 19th game of the year, she wasted no time picking up her second as she scored less than 12 minutes later. 
Lovelace workf'd a give-and­go with senior Iris Lancaster just over midfield. After taking the pass from Lovelace, Lancaster fed her streaking down the middle of the field for an easy goal to close out the scoring. 
Lovelace's goals Wf're a fit­ting reward for the hard work and improvement she has shown this year, according to Waldrum. 
"J think she responded very well for us," Waldrum said. "It's good for her to do it at this time because she has spent some time out there and couldn't quite find it, couldn't quite find it. Then to come in here and score two in a play­off game, that was great. Hopefully confidence-wise it will help her. She has really been improving every game that we have put her in." 
Lovelace will get a chance to show more improvement this weekend when the Irish travel to Piscataway, N.J., for the semifinals of the Big East championships against Seton Hall. 
The Pirates advanced to the 
semifinals with a 6-2 over the 
Orangemen of Syracuse last 
night. 

The other semifinal will fea­
ture the Connecticut Huskies 
against the Boston College 
Eagles. 
LET IT ALL HANG OUT ON YOUR 21ST BIRTHDAY JAMIE SABLICH! 


-
HAPPY BELATED BIRTHDAY! LOVE, JEN AND CHRIS 


Senior Jenny Streiffer dribbles away from a Miami defender in Tuesday's 5-0 victory over the Hurricanes at Alumni Field. Streiffer had a goal and an assist in the victory. 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 

We a,,,,e ~~ l)t <flJ,.,., ~ tfw 2,013 ~ tl1w;t, fu:we ~~ tfw ~ 20 ~ Svw~uA ½ ~ ~ l,01-~Wei Cc~ ~ ~ ftlwwl-\,i A#C~1", 
(~~1", ~ Nl)v~ 4 @ 6 PH at tJ{,e 
Men's Bas.etlaafl 
Friday Noy. SIL 7:30pm 
... 
Women's Baskedsmll 

Sunda-,, No~. 7tL 9JOOpan Te OLio J\11-Stars 
~ t,c1-~Wei Cc~ 
Y.ON.f&IIY.I: WoDlen's Volleyball 
7:00pnt 
vs. ILLINOIS STATE 

'I 

Wednesday, November 3, 1999 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
CMJ1T l?.ELIE:.Vf; '<OV 1.-\,.T 1\IEM CllllO~'E 'Ti4E, 1-\01/11: 
C:l"\ON, j'Oi;:,t),'~. <:.1as icl ANO (;,\Jo{~ 1.1Ke.So~EOF 2 -WE S.t.kE. MoVIE.5
, 
Fox TROT 
EVER S.r..EN 11.S~,.._~f'E IN Loi/El!." 
ER. SEf:I.J 11 itlE 
BR.10E:2'." ,-,.e:, (')~ 1't+E Mol/1 
SoOJA HEAR 1 l<NoW. ASoUT 6~EG CAN,ou AND MICHELLE B~ Hool(1N& UP?.' IT?.' 
\ 
l'i'W\\'.tCJ.\IW!.COrn 

TOM KEELEY 
BILL AMEND 
HMM'PH. ii-IE 'ME ToTALLY 
NERVE oF ll-lAT WERE LIBAARtAN To AVERAG1N<:, 
l<ICI< US OUT! A WK•SPER.' 
A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD JEFF BEAM 
,)-I -. 
I 

I~ 
I 
-· 

A bad sign from your weatherman. 
beam 1@nd.edu 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 28 "Hollywood 
1 Pay to play Squares" square
5 Somersault 30 Inc., abroad9 Pigeon dish 31 Front wheel 14 Basic bingo alignment foritem cars15 Badgered 33 Champs' cry 16 Perfume 35 Nontheoretical
quantity 
athlete? 17 Some Feds 
40 Out group 18 Furry "Star 
41 W.W. II menace 

Wars" creature 
43 Former White 19 About House daughter 20 Where 46 Gal of song 
legislators pass 47 Nation since 
the time? 
1948: Abbr. 23 Idiosyncratic 
49 U.S. 1, e.g. 24 Electrifying 50 Boys in the speech 'hood 25 Last word in a 52 Rough house threat 
54 Sweeping shot 26 William Tail's 
55 What an artist canton 
needs for a self­27 Early PM. portrait? 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

58 Cagney portrayal in "Yankee Doodle Dandy" 
59 North Carolina college 
60 New York's most populous upstate county 
61 time or another 62 Province north of Mont. 63 Rooters 64 Member of a loyal order 65 Poses 66 Box-spring support 
DOWN 1 Pantomimes 2 Attempt to 
impress, as in conversation 3 More into fads 4 Best or Ferber 5 Unhampered by 6 Revealing, as a dress 34 San Francisco's 7 Graven images Hill 8 Sri Lankan 
36 Part of a refrain, export maybe 
9 Punch 37 ''The mother of10 Paper quantity corruption":11 Spread open 
Montaigne12 Waylay 
38 Two-striper
13 Broadcast 39 Olympic skater 
21 Rapt states 
Witt
22 Teem (with) 
29 Fellow panelist 42 Stretched to the limit
32 Knighted actor McKellen 43 1978'.laot=.B.I. 
33 Loos investigation 

Interpol agent code 
45 "Anyone 53 Dwight's home?" opponent 47 Deepest 56 Spoon-playing site
48 Unpleasant fusses 57 Makers of calls 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95t per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
HOROSCOPE 
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1999 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Roseanne Barr, Lulu, Charles Bronson, Adam Ant 
Happy Birthday: This is vour year to shine. Get out and follow vour dreams. It's high time you put ·vour ideas into motion. The more vou can do this year, the better. You'll have an ,nteresting way of viewing thrngs, and that will bring interest from peo­ple who can help you get ahead. Don't hold back because you are shy; just go for it. Your numbers: 13, 24, 28, 34, 36, 44 

ARIES (March 21-ApriI 19): Catch up on overdue correspondence, but be sure to be honest and direct with others if you want good ad\'ice in return. Make sure vou aren't lil'ing in a dream world. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Yclll 
mustn't overspend on large-scale pro­
jects that have only a slim chance of 
making back your mane)· Think 
twice before you support an idea that 
belongs to someone else. 00000 

GEMINI (May 21-June 201: It will 
be hard to control vour emotions. Trv 
to get in\'olved in ·worthwhile causes 
that will take your mind off your own 
dilemmas. Your emotional confusion 
will upset your partner. 00 

CANCER (June 21-July 221: You 
will have a problem with colleagues if 
\'OU get involved in gossip. Don't 
waste too much time worrying about 
those you work with. Concentrate on 
1•our after-work activities with 
friends. 0000 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Children 
\\'ill play a major role in vour life. 
Your involvement with the arts or 
entertainment will boost your morale, 
but it may also make your mate 
jealous. 000 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 
EUGENIA LAST 

Opportunities to make changes in your home will be to your advantage. Think before you act when disputing with children or family. They may not be as eager as you are lo make alterations. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Do not meddle in the personal affairs of friends or family. You should be working on yourself and your own problems for the time being Accept the changes going on around you. 
000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't let anyone talk you out of your money. You mustn't spend on enter­tainment, gambling or children. This is the time to save for a rainy day. 
0000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): 
Your lover may not understand your 
actions. Spell out your intentions 
clearly if you want to avoid discord 
This is not tlw time to ruffle feathers. 
lle honest but d1plomat1c 00 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
Problems wilh authority figures will 
cause upset. Don't take any chances if 
\'Ou are traveling or dealing with 
iarge institutions. Your boss will 
overreact ,f you try to discuss your 
thoughts. 00000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You 
can expand your circle of friends if 
you take part in a fund-raising event 
that you believe in. Keep your eyes 
open. Someone special could waltz 
mto your life 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
Changes at home will be hectic. Be .. 
careful how )'OU handle the ones you 
il\'e with. Thev mav be a little fraz­
zled toda\'. Don't let your sensitive, 
emotional side take over and cause 
friction 00 
Birthday Baby: You have a broad vis10n of life and the world. You know instinctively what others want and how to help them get it. Loyal, dedicated and patient, you're a generous i11di1·idual who will always give to those in 
need. (Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, 
eugenialaslcom, astromate.com.) 
It Jm Uni\'crsal Press S\'ndicale 

The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year D Enclosed is $45 for one semester ... 
Name ----------------------------­
Address------------------­
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 



Moving On 
The Belles advanced to the semifinals ofthe MIAA Tournament with a win over Kalamazoo College. 
PORTS 
page 18 

page 24 OBSERVER Wednesday, November 3, 1999 
CROSS COUNTRY 
Big East champ Shay sets sights on NCAA title 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Junior cross country runner Hyan Shay's full potential as a runner is yet tu be determined. but nothing short of an army
-will stop him from being confi­dent about his future. An NCAA title is not out of the question, based on his perfor­mance to date. nor is a future appearance in the Olympics. "l think that would be a legiti­mate question to ask after the NCAAs," said head Notre Dame cross country coach Joe Piane about Shay's potential. "lie's had a marvelous year, but I think for him the benchmark this yea.r is how well he does at the NCMs." Shay finished among the top six in every race this season, bringing home the title in all but one meet, the NCAA Pre­Nationals. He paved the way for Notre Dame's rise from unranked to No. 8 in the nation­al standings by being the first Irish finisher in each of his meets. Yet he has his eyes on a larger goal -a national cross country championship. "I have to have the race of my life," Shay said, in order to win the title. "Steve Fein of Oregon is being favored by some to cap­ture the NCAA championship. Shay finished just six seconds behind Fein at Pre-Nationals on an 8K course. and was closing in on Fein toward the end of the race. The N'CM championships will be a lOK course. "Over 10K, I think those guys are going to get tired, and I'm going to still be feeling good," Shay said. "It matches up pretty close. It's not going to be an easy race. I've got to keep in my head that I can win. I've got to have that mindset. At the worst, I should be in the top 10." Shay has been a lethal weapon for the Irish in cross 
country and track throughout his career. H.is freshman year he won his first two collegiate cross country meets, then went on to finish among the top three Notre Dame runners the rest of the season. 
"I didn't realize he was going to be that good that quick," Piane said. "He's totally focused. He lives with blinders on. Nothing's going to interfere with his desire to be an outstanding runner." 
International man of running 
That year Shay represented the United States at the World ,Junior Cross Country Championships in Morocco, where he placed 20th out of 200 competitors. His finish was the best by an American since 1992. It helped lead the U.S. to sev­enth place as a team. its highest placing since 1988. 
"It gave me a taste of interna­tional competition and it built my confidence," Shay said. "Whenever Ineed to think about a good race, I can always think back to the World Junior Championships." 
Shay got more than a sample of running at an elite level. He also experienced a very differ­ent lifestyle than that of most Americans. 
"I learned as much as you can in seven days about the cul­ture," Shay said. "The first night I was there, at four or five in the morning, a siren went off. It sounded like an air raid, but it was the [mosques) calling the people to pray. It was total cul­ture shock." 
Children also approached him following his race, wanting to trade some of their possessions for his cross country uniform, because it had USA written on it. 
Shay did not compete for 
see SHAY/page 20 


WOMEN'S SOCCER 
.... 
Irish shut out Hurricanes, advance to semifinals 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Associate Sports Editor 
In biting wind and svvirling snow, the No. 6 Notre Dame women's soccer team made the Miami Hurricanes feel very unwelcome on Alumni field as the Irish advanced to the semifinals of the Big East tour­nament with a 5-0 win last night. 
Junior midfield Anne Makinen scored the Big East game win­
Quarterfinal 
ner for the 
Notre Dame 5
Irish in the 13th minute. MiamiO The All-American from Helsinki, Finland, headed a corner kick from senior defender Kara Brown into the 

upper left corner of the net. The goal was Makinen's 12th of the year. 
Makinen's goal would be the only score of first half as the Irish entered halftime with just a 1-0 lead. Despite out shooting the Hurricanes 18-4, the Irish could not find 
the back of the net. H~rnd coach Randy Waldrum 
was not pleased with his team's first half play. 
"I just got into them," Waldrum described his half­time speech. "I was tired of us coming out in games like this and playing flat. I thought we were setting ourselves up fur another game like an Indiana or a Wisconsin where we out shoot team and they only get three or four chances and they 
score one. I thought we were setting ourselves up for that again." 
The team sharnd Waldrurn's assessment of the first half play, according to All­American Jenny Streiffer. 
"We knew we were doing bad," she said. "We could see what we were doing wrong. 
see IRISH/page 22 

_,. 
at Seton Hall, vs. Qatar, at Tennessee, ~ Today, l p.m. Friday, 7:30 p.rn. l..:fl. Saturday, 7:30 p.m. 
SMC Volleyball
SPORTS 
MIAA semifinals 

ATA ., ttJ 
at Calvin College 

Volleyball ar Nebraska-Omaha, vs. Ohio All-Stars, vs. Illinois State, Friday, 8:05 p.m. Friday, 5:30 p.m. 
Sunday, 7:30 p.m. Today, 8 p.m. --~
GLANCE 










