Play Ball! 
Name that tune 

Wednesday

¦ Ger the scoop on four new albums from The
¦ The Lacrosse team comes from behind to 
Rentals, Freddy Jones Band, Paul Westerberg and
defc.tt Butler. 8-7. 
MARCH 31,
Wilco.

Sports• 22 
Scene• 12-13 
1999 


THE 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 115 WWW. N D.EDU/~OBSERVER 

Performa responds to student questions ¦ NEwsANALvs,s_ 
ByCOII.EFN McCARTHY 
llH• !'Prf'urma rons11ll.i11g ~rllllp f'it-ldc·d studP11ts' ques­tions ri·ganling Pxpa11sio11 illtd rPnllvatilltl niast<'r plans for Sai11l :vtary·s rn111pus T1wsday al a f'llrlllll hosll•d by l.indn Ti111m. vi('(• pr1·sid;•11L for StudP11t i\lTairs nt 1111• Coll1~gc. 
"This rPally is a prrn·Pss that d1•v1·l11ps ovl'r a long pPriod ol' lit111•." said Timm "i\s a rnm­p11s. lht• prorPss is almost as 
imporlant .is  !111•  1•1HI  prncl­ 
ul't."  
1'1•rf'or11w  prPsnntPd  l.hrl'P  

s1·1•11arios to llw Coll1igp 1·0111­lllllllily al II lllt>l'li11g in ~larrh. Tl11• rn11s11lling group is st\f'k­ing sludPnt 1'1•Pdhark on tlw plans. which ar1• display1•d in 1lw 1 . .-Mans llall lobby. to dPVl'lop l'urllwr s1·1•11arios that wilt f>p prPse>nlt>d to thn Colll'gt• c·ommunity on April 
I:i and subSP(JIIPntly to tlw Board ol' Trust1•1•s. 
'"lhosP scPnarios· an• not llllltually 1•xrl11sivl'. T1•!1 l'Prl'orma what you likl' and what vou don't likt\," Timm ..aid. "You all know what your 1wecls arP. 1-'1·11111 a vision p11inl. n1111t• ol' you \\'ill PXtwril'IH'I' most of tlwsn changns and that is Lhl' hard parl. 
"\,Vp lll'Pci you to usl' sonw vision in tPr111s of your PXpl'l'il'IH'I' as a stud.-nt a11d as what you want t,'.1 sPe whPn v1111 rPtur11 as an alumna. 
• In j11.,1 m1in• lhan a Wl'Pk, llH•rp have> lwPn mor,. than I00 writttm rl•sp1i11sl's submilll'cl rt•garding tlw 

The Observer/Liz Lang Linda Timm, vice president for Student Affairs at Saint Mary's, helped answer students' ques­tions about the changes that will be made by Performa Tuesday. 
·.·.· . 

scnnarios. said Timm. The deadline to submit f'twdback is April 8. 
Timm ackrrnwlndgncl that all of tlrn plans would require som1~ land acqui­sition. 
"The Sistnrs of' the lloly Cross havn also just completed a master plan so wn 1rn11d to work with tlwm on land acquisition," said Timm. ''Both enti­ties know that for the Collnge to be able to grow there n1rnds to be land acquisition. Thny wanlecl lo havn somn id1m of what we wcro going to usn it for." 
Timm also rnspondnd lo student 
.·.. . . . . 
qur.stions rngarding the proposal in one of the scenarios to build a resi­dence hall with more independent­style living. This could include apart­mimts or town house-like structures. 
"It's not like setting Turtle Creek on that part ol' campus at the bend in Made!cva Drive," said Timm. "We will have to go back to the students to hear what the students' ideas of inde­pendent-style living is." 
Stuclnnts questioned wlrnre the money for implementing the master 
see PERFORMA / page 6 
Econ prof: High market volume causes concer11 
By CHRISTOPHER SHIPLEY 
Ne\v.'i \Xlriter 

After l'lirting with Ihn I0,000-point hur­dln for nnarly two Wl'nks. thn Dow .lo1ws industrial average historically brok!' thP mark at 10.006. 78 \1onday, bringing cheers from the marknt lloor but raising conc1H·ns that tlrn grPHl.t\st bull markPt since thn 1920s may lw top big l'or its britclrns. 
The marknt answt•rPd spPculation that it would not stay alJ11vn I0.000 points Tuesday wlrnn it fell CJ:L!i2 points to ()C)l :{,26. 
Still. the new rnileslono has ldt many economists confused about tlrn next step. 
"The Dow is an absurd number that doesn't mnan anything." said Teresa Ghilarducci, associate professor of' nco­nomics at Notre Ihrn)n. "Any profossiona! that is watching ltlrn markntl, or taking it seriously, doesn't look at the Dow." 
The Dow Jones industrial avPragP is an independent nconomic indiralor of 30 stocks. Analysts am critical of' tlw av!'r­age, however, for not including important stocks like Microsoft. 
Since August ICJ82, the stock market has increased f'rom $1 .4 trillion to $ I 1.9 tril­lion, and the average now stands :mo pN­cent abov11 its Octob!'r 1<J<JO lt•vel. 
Optimists see the growth as an indicator of a healthy Cl:onomy and PXpPcl tlw bull 
see DOW I page (1. 
Roemer focuses on funding, quality of education programs 
By ANNE MARIE MATTINGLY 
A\~od.m: New, f·.d1tur 





ND names task force members 
By BRAD UNTIEDT elect. tion to Pricowaterhouso-Coopers as News Writtr Other members agreed, saying part of the monitoring that will br that a.n exact' determination will be going on,'' said Conklin. "But we 
In response to recent concerns very difficuIt. havr. not n1t1de a cnrnmit.mnnt to over Notre Dame's possible involve­"In studying the living wage issue, put them up on a bulletin board in ment with sweatshop labor, the it should follow the basic economic Nieuwland Hall." 0tllce of the Prosident of the The idtin of' public disclo­University has formed a task sure could also load to safo­force of' f'acultv members, ty concerns, Conklin added. administrators. students and "This also involves a safe­
'OUR PROBLEM IS: 
representatives from outskk ty issun becausn publicly
WHAT IS A LIVING 
eorporations to investigate disclosing this information throe topics surrounding WAGE? How L'i THIS could lead to unrelat.nd sweatshop issues. inspnctors showing up, and
DEFINED? THAT MUST
"Thti task force will studv problnms could arise." he issues such ns collcctivo ba1:-ANSWERED.' said. 
, gaining. living wages and di&­Murphy also said that the closurn of sites and make rec­Murphy issuo of snfoty will play a omnrnndatlons to the prnsi-M1c111 Ml!IU'lff big part in the study of pub­dcnt of the Uuiversi.ty," said ST/JlJEr'l'T JJOD'r' l'liES!Dl:'NT-Bf,l;'(:T licly disclosing (II(' manu­William lloyP, task forcP facturing sites. chairman. "Facult\l, students "The idea of having con­and apparel ropr'osontativos aro rights as provided by the Calholic cerned citizens showing up at man­involved in ihe task l'orce to have a social leaching, although this is ufacturing sitos wtlf'n work is going community-wide effort in studying broad,'' said Todd Whitmore, asso­on crcatlls safety problems, .. tlrnse issuos." ciate professor of theology. Murphy said. "Tlrny probably 
The first issue, the concept of a Tho second bsuc. th(' disclosure wouldn'1 know wlrnt swoatshop living \vage, is one that membi•rs of apparel manufacturing sitns to conditions am -I wouldn't know said will bo diJ\kult to deal with and the public, has recently led to exactly." will roquirc much study. unre:;t on other campu:;es including Conklin also commented on Lim 
"Our problem is: What is a living DukP Univorsitv, Princeton topic of coll!'ctivo bargaining. wage? How is this defirwd? Th,1t University and the University of "Collective bargaining -·or the must be answerod," said Micah Wisconsin-Madison. China Issue -is tho samo thing Murphy. siud;mt body president-"Wo have disclosed this inforrna­

see SHOPS/ page 8 

Mon• funds art• lll'Pdl'd to maximize thP hPrrnfits of Ptftwational programs for young rhildren, but quality rnnlrnls 11111st lw i111pl,•11w11tl'd to Pns111•p that monny is s1H•11l Pffl'ctiv1•ly, said lndinna HPprnsPntativP Tim 
Hol·11wr Ttwsday, 
HoPmtir, who fou111lPd tlw ChihlrPn's Working c;roup in t<J1JI. r,u·usPd 011 tlw I Iliad St.art progra111 to illt1strat" his point. 
"ITlu•n•'sl nol ,n10ugh mo1wy," lw said. "IOnlyl 40 pPtTonl Lo 011n-third t11' :{-and 4-yPar-olds wh11 qualify an• 


--'»-l'lll'Olirnl." Roemer Bo1•111l'r also said that. ii is not t•nmrgli simply to pour mor1• moiwy into PXist.ing programs. 
"I lwliPvn in ,u·rnuntahility for education dollars." said l!oP1111•r, who sils !lll llu• I luusi· Con1111ittl'P 011 EducaLion ;111d tlu• Workf'nn·1•. "WP 11111st work at llw nuts and holts IPVl'i to Pllsuri· that progrmns am m-romplishing lwhal Wi\ Sl\l 11111 to do1.·· 
"Yt111 lia,1• suclt 11111•v,•11 pr•rfor111a11cn in lhn lload Sl.arl. programs," lw ronti1111t•d, 1111ti11g that programs lin has visitPd ra11gP f'ro111 somn that lw lorms "great" Lu 111.lwrs that an• in 11ss1•nc1· hahysitling sorvir'.t1S. "If' W<\ m·1\ g-oi11g-to arg-w• for I !Pad Start li,r 1wcry 3-and 4­
sec ROFMER / page 4· 

--------------~-----­
Wednesday, March 31, 1999
page 2 The Observer• INSIDE 
¦ INSIDE COLUMN 


Easter is a tin1e for thanks 
• 
One of tlw greatnst lessons in life that I have been taught I learned from my dad in thfl eighth grade. You see, my dad was our junior high volunteer football coach for 20­
some years and was  
looking forward to  Patrick Peters  
coaching me in my  A,lverrising Executive  
final year before high  

school. Then, in mid-August, shortly after 
practice had begun, my father was diagnosed 
with prostate rancer and was told that he 
would miss the rest of the season in order to 
recover from the surgery that would save his 
life. He and I wer0. VNY disappointed and 
upset at the fact that we wouldn't be sharing 
this last year of junior high football together. 
My dad had his surgery, which wont well, although it left him unable to work for about six weeks and with some discomfort. For the first few weeks, he moped around the house a bit in constant bitterness at his predica­ment. He was angry at the world. Why him? Why now? 
Then one dav, he realized that he was indeed a very lucky man. Our principal that year, Sister Dolores, has also been diagnosed with cancer -although hers was a recur­rence of' a brain tumor that would ultimately end her life in her early 40s. Our high school football coach was also sitting out that season -he was a very sick man and would also lose his life within the ensuing months. My dad had been praying for himself and for his own recovery when he realized that there were others that needed his prayers much more. lie began to pray for those two every day, and amazingly, he began to recover ­much more quickly than anyone had ever hoped. 
This story was told by my father later that year at the fall sports banquet where he was keynote speaker. With tears in his eyes, he reminded us to avoid being caught up in our0 selves and to devote our energy to helping others. 
There are countless stories of people acting the same way, forsaking their own misfor­tune in lil'e 'and trying to help others who are · even more disadvantaged. This lesson is taught to us again this weekend as we remember Jesus Christ, who died on a cross for us. Suff Pring one of the most hideous ways to die, even in His death He proclaimed for others by saying: "Father, forgive them for they do not know what they are doing." 
It is always easy to complain -to make our hardships seem unbearable. We can always find ways to improve our school and our nation. It is good to point out Haws in them in order to make them better. Always remember. however, that there are a lot of prople out there who have it a lot worse than we do. We attend the best university in the world and live in the best country in the world. Let us each take this Easter holiday as an opportunity to thank God for His countless gifts that have brought us to this wonderful place, We should always remember those less fortunate and do our best to help them discover all the good that life has to offer. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are lhose of the author ancl not necessarily those of71ze Obsemer. 
¦ TooAv's STAFF 
News Scene Chrisline Kraly Mike Vanegas Christopher Shipley Graphics Laura Rompf 
Mandi Powell Sports Lab Tech Anthony Bianco 
Liz Lang 

Viewpoint 
Mary Margaret Nussbaum 
The Observer (USrS '.>99 2-4000) is published Mond•y rhrough Friday cxc-epr during ex:1m and \tacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction righrs are reserved. 







utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Massive house fire claims lives of student and roommate 

LANSING, Mich. 

A Michigan State student and his housemate died Sunday night after their Lansing home was destroyed in a fire. 
Michael Chaprnka. a telecommuni­cation sophomore, and Michael Schwartz, a Lansing resident, were trapped in an upstairs room and could not escape the fire at their home on tho cast side of Lansing. 
Chaprnka's father, Bob, said his son was humorous and loved life. Michael Chaprnka also had a passion for music, his father said. 
"I le was gniat at expressing himself both verbally and through writing," he said. "His real love was playing the bass guitar. Ho had a lot of fun at it." 
An investigation is still underway, according to Lansing Township fire officials. An autopsy report will be available Tuesday. Chaprnka and Schwartz, who played the tenor saxo­phone, were part of a three-member band called the Schumakers. The trio developed their own sound, dubbing it "jazz.funk-rock," Bob Chaprnka said. The band played at several local art festivals and at restaurants including the Small Planet Food and Spirits, 
The third member ol' the band, 20­year-old David Silver. escaped the fire, but could not be rear.bed for comment Monday. 
Andy Bledsoe. a senior at East Lansing High School and friends of both victims, said he remembers the two as a couple of "jokcstcrs" who always had fun no matter what they did. 
"[Schwartz) always made me laugh," Bledsoe said. "He always trnated me nice since the day l mnt him." 
When Lansing Township firefighters arrived at the house at 11:42 p.m., flames already had spread to a neigh­boring house, said Lansing Township fire Chief William Oaklny. The fire caused $40,000 in damages to each home, Oakley said. Neither will be replacnd, he said, 
"There was fire just coming out of everything," Oakley said. ''There was just too much heat coming out of the house so we had to fight the firn from the outside." 
Guy Bricker, a Lansing resident who lives nearby and witnessed the fire, said he heard a small explosion and saw flames shooting :io feet to 40 foet in the air from the house. 
¦ UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA Students demand 'voice' during rally 
PHIL~DELPHIA 
Undergraduate assembly chairperson Bill Conway accused University of Pennsylvania administrators of ignor­ing students' concerns and of "turning a deaf ear" to their "collective voices" during a press conference Monday held to announce Tuesday's student rally. Around 30 Penn stu­dents and several local media outlets attended Monday's press conference in front of the Fisher Fine Arts Library, at which Conway, a Wharton junior, delivered a brief speech criticizing the administration for taking action last week without !irst considering student input. But during his speech, Conway did not specifically mention alcohol or the dry issue even once, emphasizing instead that Tuesday's rally scheduled for 3 p.m. on College Green is about addressing the need for student involvement in University decision-making. Students have expressed anger because alcohol has been taken away from campus parties, 
¦ PmNCETON UN!VERSlTY Committee prohibits Nude Olympics 
PRINCETON, N.J. 
The Committee on the Nude Olympics submitted recom­mendations to President Shapiro Monday afternoon that include plans for apprehending runners and for creating an "extraordinary" disciplinary process to enforce the event's prohibition, according to a draft of the report. "The com­mittee recommends to the President and the Board of Trustees adoption of a policy banning the nude olympics," says the version of the report that circulated among com­mittee members fqr final approval late last week. The draft calls for a one-year suspension from the University for "any activity that is deemed an attempt to perpetuate the nude olympics" or "behavior that in the past had been associated with the nude olympics." Dean of Student Life Janina Montero said the committee attempted to make descrip­tions of the ban flexible to end the olympics, no matter what form the event may take. 
¦ STANFORD UNIVERSITY TV station airs pornography 
STANFORD, Calif. 
It was after 2 a,m, on March 12, the Friday of Dead Week, 
when viewers of the student-run SCBN channel found 
something entirely new playing on Stanford TV: pornogra­
phy. According to SCBN station manager Katie Tipson, a 
sophomore, SCBN probably will not repeat such screenings 
in the future, "Pornogrpahy was not appropriate, and we're 
not going to do it again," she said, At an hour when SCBN 
was accepting requests for screenings, some students called 
in and requested pornographic movies, Tipson explained 
that SCBN runs shows based on student requests, and 
"when some students rnquestod pornography." the station 
obliged. "We are a student station, and a lot of what we 
show is by student requesL That was our justification," 
Tipson said. She also explained that, owing to the nature of 
the film, she decided to screen the pornographic film late at 
night when fewer viewers could be <1xpected. 
¦ tm1vrnsnv OF WiSCONS!N-MAmSON . Fees case goes to Supreme Court 
MADISON, Wisc. After threr years of trials and appeals, a lawsuit brought by three UW-Madison law students will be heard by the 
U.S. Supreme Court Tlw high court announced 'Vlonday it will hear the appeal of the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals decision concerning the Southworth v, Grebe seg­
. regated fees case, Tlw case, which was filed in 1996, chal­lenges the use of student fees to fond student organiza­tions. On April 2, 1996, the students' case won in US District Court The Board of Regents appealed that deci­sion to the federal circuit court. In October, the appeals court once again upheld the decision. Wisconsin Attorney General James Doyle filed a petition with the high court Jan. 25, on behalf of the University of Wisconsin Board of Hegents. According to Jim Haney, a spokesperson for Doyle, the Supreme Court's decision to !mar the case is indicative of their interest in the issue, 
¦ SOUTH Bam WEATHER ¦ i\iATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend.Forecast , AccuWemher®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
H L 

Wednesday 
~y 68 47 Thursd;ay ~69 51' 
··::1'·:··
•97;·,,.··.•···
..'."

Friday J ~6~ 4
•: < 
·. ·.4·,.,.· .•.•.·•·.. ··.•.;
:..•.~...·.··


Saturd,ay ~. 61 ?I._ 
••:\ ..i"l!,i. 

Sunday ,, r~ 56 ,4'Q::·,
-~s./':~........ '···.,/ ..\!,. . \. -----,,. -~,--;.~ 

~~.i'.() £'.'.:1~&1 i) ~ ~ 
,,,, ...~...~ ......... :.:.:,;.: --­
Showers T-starms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny pt Cloudy Cloudy 
Viii A<:<~tv•!i,,1/,:,<rl P=<:<t n,-,1nhir~NP.t 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, March 31, Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 30s Os FRONTS: <0 1999 AccuWeather, Inc. ........... ----­.....-&.­COLD WARM STATIONARY  
Pmuure: ® © H}gh \..ow Shower• Rain T-storms Flurrie1 Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy  
Atlanta 55 49 Columbus 70 41 Los Angeles 66 50 8a1t1more 74 38 Dallas 74 52 Miami BO 69 Baton Rouge 75 57 Den'ler 71 44 New York 72 46 Boston 65 42 Honolulu 80 70 ~hoem:ic 84 60 Chicago 68 52 lndia,napolls 68 44 St. Louis 73 54  


Wednesday, March 31, 1999 The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



Cornell: Bombing not the way to promote peace 
By ERICA TI IESING 
Associ,1tc News Fditor 
l hc Anm r i ca n r o Ie iII llrn ru1-rp11L Kosovo bombing cam­paign is nol an ol'foclivc nwthod l'or prndur.ing pP1lCP in Llw Balkans. said Tom Cornoll in a Tunsday discussion on wag-ing war and making pPacn. 
Cornell. a peace activist and long-lillll' 11w1nlwr or the Ca tho Iit: Wo rko r movunHlll l. said t.hal t!wrn arc certain i11slanr1!S calling for invoca­tion or tlw jusl war tlwory but this is not onn ol' thorn. 
"\\'n CllllllCll SH\'(l SOll1!1t.hing hy d cs t. ro yin g it," lw said . "This wnv is nxhauswd. II' war 1·vnr had ·11,giti111acy, that ll'git­i!llH!'.Y is go1w in modprn rir­c11111stancns." 
C:orntdl t'.XJJrnssed concPrll wilh llH' plight of' llw Kosovar 1woplt1 and said lhal somn­tlling should Jw done to holp thPm. ll1i addnd that waging war, how1•vcH, is not the 
illlSWnr. 
"/\II lwarl <·;in do is bt1ltrnss arbitrary privilngo which is 
buttressed by illegitimate forms of national stal.eism," he said. 
Bncauso or Russia's histori­cal involvoment in lhe Balkans. any pcac<· solution must include Hussian involvo­
mcn t. Cornell explained. 
"Hussia has got to be involved in the solu­tion in the Balkans," lrn said. "To think oth­erwise is ahsoluto insanit,;'." 
Cornrdl also ques­tioned tlrn role or the ncnc on a Catholic campus such as :--Jotrn 
Dame. 

lie did not condo11111 the prnsnnce ol' the HOTC program and said that tho military can have a lngitimate role. Jin urged I.he 
audience, however, to exam­in<\ what role the program plays on campus. 
"If the military were doing what Urn Vatican Council doc­11111 P n l said thev should be doing, I wouldn't have a beef'," 

MASTER 
YOUR CAREER 
DESTINY! 

·,;. COME TO THE SELF-ASSESSMENT WORKSHOP! 
Eilur patl..1\'orkshop~en.danre to an is strongly encQU.rag_ed Limited space -Sign up in advance at Career and Placement Services (1-5200) 
When: Thursday, March 18, 4:00-5:15 p.m. 
Where: DeBartolo Hall -Room 213 
When: Thursday, March 25, 4:00 -5:15 p.m. Wednesday, March 31, 4:00 -5: 15 p.m. Thursday, April 8, 4:00 -5: I 5 p.m. Where: DeBartolo Hall -Room 116 
Presented by Olivia Williams, Assistant Director 
Ca.-ccr and Placement Services 



(C)py SHOP 
LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 
Complete 


Digital 
Document Services 


Desktop Publishing Services 
Resumes• Newletters • Flyers 
Brochures• Business Cards 
Letterhead & Envelopes 
Invitations• Table Tents 
Forms • Posters & More' 

Monday -Thursday: 7:30 am to Midnight Friday: 7:30 am to 7:00 pm Saturday: Noon to 6:00 pm • Sunday: Noon to Midnight 
he said. "But they're not." 
Cornell also touched on issues closer to home for Notre Dame students, includ­ing the cost of a Notre Dame <~ducat.ion and the recent anti­sweatshop activity. 

'WECANNOT SAVE 
SOMETHING BY DESTROYING IT. THIS WAY IS EXHAUSTED. IF WAR EVER HAD LEGITIMACY, THAT LEGITIMACY IS GONE IN MODERN CIRCUMSTANCES.' 
means telling your creditors to suck an egg." 
He spoke against a culture that encourages material wealth and shared his own experiences with voluntary poverty. Cornell explained that 

Tot.t CORNELL 
PRACR ACI1VIST 
Cornell. who explained that his own college education in 1952 cost $400 per year, said that the debt burden Notre Dame students race is ''terri­ble." lie encouraged students to avoid the corporate race for a large paycheck and urgcu · them to "break out" of the sys­tem. 
"You get out of school anti how du you pay these debts? You have to got onto that treadmill," he said. ''I'll pray for you. but what a burden ... If you can break out in some way, break out -even if it 
each person must determine what pos­sessions are neces­sary, including expensive houses, cars and even tennis shoes. 
"My grandl'ather didn't believe a toothbrush was nec­essary," Cornell said. "lie never had onP." 
With experience in tlrn labor movomHn t and boycotting cam­paigns. Cornell also discussed the sweat­
shop protests on col­lege campuses. 

Cornell. who was wearing a Notre Oamo sweatshirt given to him as a gift on Monday. expressed concern upon learn­ing from an audience member that Notre Dame may have involvement in sweatshop labor. 
"Somn things simply shouldn't bo done," he said, rnferring to this use of sweat­shop labor. "It's just scan­dalous. With all this luxury here -and it's nice, and I don't mean to bad-mouth it ­at this level, we ought to be looking to rnduce rather than to increas,i." 
Cornnll sail.I that. hn worknd 70 hours a week at a factory at the age of 17 and knew the demoralizing nlfocts of that environment. 
"If' this shirt came from tlrn labor of' some woman chainod to a machine just south of' the bordnr, then I don't. want it," he said, pointing to his swnat­shirt. 
Tho problnms associatod with sweatshop labor will only con­li nu o as the world movos increasingly toward globaliza­tion, Im added. 
"Globalization will procnod on the 111w-liboral modol and unjust. immoral. exploitive neo­n o m i c r o I ation s h ip s w i11 Im solidified," lw said. "Nations as well as certain populations will be marginulized and oxploitod unless Christian pnople ... make it. ot.herwiso." 
Ile said that Christians must extract themselves l'rom unjust situations and work to bring about tho touchings ol' t.lw Gospel. 
"Labor is not a commodity," Cornell said. "The Church has been saying this f'or I00 ynars." 
Cornnll spoke y11sterday al the request of Fathnr Michanl Baxtnr, assistant professor or theology, who is helping to restart tlrn Notrn Damn chapt1ir of Pax Christi. Cornell has served as the national secre­tary of the Catholic l'eacn Fellowship since 1965. 


Pax Christi resumes activities 
By ERIN PIROUTEK News Writer 
Notre Dame needs a voice for peace on campus, said freshman Brendan Egan, a member or Notre Dame's Pax Christi chapter, which will resume its activities after being dormant for about a vear. · "Pax Christi is an interna­tional organization formed under Catholic auspices to advance the cause of peace and pnacemaking throughout the world," said assistant pro­fessor or theology Father Michaol Baxter. 
"Them was at one time a very activt\ Pax Christi chap-

Today is Your 

Lucky 

When it comes to being lucky, today's your day! We're the high-speed copy specialists you've heen looking for ... Lhe pOL of gold 
ter," said mernbnr Mike Griffin, a candidate at the Moreau Seminary. "A group of us has tried to work this year to expand it and make it active this year. We've already expe­rinnccd a lot of growth." 
"I believe my faith in Catholicism teaches that non­violence is a way or life, and that we should follow Jesus' teaching to turn tho other cheek," said Egan. "Wn hope to be an educator on campus about pacifism and Christianity." 
The presence of the ROTC program on campus is a cru­cial issue for the group. HOT(: is a visible and direct way in which Notre Dame participatns 

at the end of your rainbow ... the four-leaf clover in your pocket! When it comes to copies, we're the best. Bring us your orders for copies and our professional staff will get them done quickly and accurately at a price you won't turn green over. 


Quality Copies, Quickly!'" Copyright 1999 • All Rights Reserved 
in waging war, said Baxter. 
"We believe that them is a fundamental tension bntween the religious character of Notre Dame and its training young people in organiznd vio­lence," said Crif'fin. "Church teaching calls into question the validity of modern warl'arn, ynt HOTC provides a thorough training in that." 
The group is also co11cornnd with the use ol' military forcn in Kosovo. 
"It's surprising that morP Catholics do not nxpross dis­satis f'ac tio n with military action in Kosovo," said Grif'lin. "The popn has nxprnssnd his own sadness that. violencn has been usnd to snnk peacn by N/\TO. Viol<incn is only going to entrnnch division furtlwr." 
Pax Christi holds wnekly prayer vigils on Fridays at llrn Storrnhengo fountain on thn Fieldhousn Mall for causes such as the death penalty and violence in Iraq and tlrn for­mer Yugoslavia. 
Tuesday tlrn group spon­sored a talk by peace activist Tom Cornell, a co-worknr of Dorothy Day and an editor of The Catholic Worknr nnwspa­per. In t.hn futurn, Pax Christi plans to initiat.n nducational and snrvicn activitins that pro­motn peaco, Baxtnr said. 
Got News? 1-5323 

J 

page 4 The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, March 31, 1999 
Roeiner 
continued from page 1 
year-old ... I want them educat­ing these kids." 
The lack of quality in some programs is, in part. directly due to inadequate funding because low salaries make recruiting good teachers tough, according to Roemer. 
"I cannot tell you how ashamed I am of what we pay lleact Start teachers," he said, noting that the average pay in the South Bend area is between $11,000 and $12,000 per year. "Can you believe we pay zookeepers more to take care of our animals than we pay our Head Start teachers?" 
Roemer noted that ensuring that money is well spent includes determining whether a program is effective at any given time and also adjust­ing the pro­gram as tho 

improved
needs of 'c.AN YOU BELIEVE WE

children performanceschange. PAY ZOOKEEPERS under the system 
"How do MORE TO TAKE CARE OF OUR will be rewarded we craft with additional 
ANIMALS THAN WE PAY OUR flexibility.
these pro­

grams to HEAD START TEACHERS?' All in all. meet needs Roemer said that for the next education has 10 to 15 TTM ROEMER become a priority years?" he RbPRBSENTA11\tE, in the mind of the 
asked. 

INDIANA Tll/RD DISTRICT nation. 
He noted that since Head Start was founded in 1965 the number of family breakups and homes without a stay-at­home parent has increased. Roemer said that, therefore, an increased focus on parental involvement and teaching of par­enting skills are needed. 
Roemer also addressed the value of early education pro­grams, saying that when estimat­ing the amount of prison space needed in the future, the govern­ment builds a cell for every sec­ond-grader not expected to grad­uate from high school. 
"We can either spend $3,000 to $4,000 per child and insist on hold and creative ideas for early education or we can spend $32,000 to incarcarate that child a little bit later." he said. 
"Do we simply say, 'We're not going to tackle these programs. We're going to rapidly and speedily build prisons'?" 

Hoerner also said that the Education Flexibility Bill, which he co-authored with Delaware Representative Michael Castle and which has the support of all 50 governors and the President, will help improve education hy providing more decision-making power to individual schools. The bill has passed both houses of Congress. and Hoerner expects it to be signed into law by April. 
Meanwhile, the idea behind the measure is currently being tested in pilot programs in 12 states. 
"We're trying to provide more educational flexibility to school districts," he said, noting that addilional freedom will be grant­ed in the areas of the curriculum, school policies and the determi­nation of who will teach what subjects. "We want them doing new things in public education. We don't want staff members fil. ing paperwork all the time." 
Roemer said 
that those schools 
whoso students 
show 
"[There's] a very 
interesting conflu­ence of opinion," he said. "People really truly believethat public education needs to be reformed." 
Other proposals to accomplish such reforms, according to Roemer. include charter schools and alternate route certification. Charter schools are founded by parents and community leaders who determine school policies. but are accountable to the state for student performance. 
Alternate route certification provides a means for profession­als to become certified teachers without returning to school and is designed to encourage people in second and third careers to become educators, Roemer said. 
Other possibilities include increased parental involvement and discipline and after-school programs to provide a safe envi­ronment for children, according to Hoerner. 
NEED AJOB for the 1999-2000 academic year? 
Student Activities is now accepting applications for all areas: 
LaFortune Building Managers Stepan Center Managers Ballroom Monitors Office Assistants Set Up Crew Infonnation Desk Attendants Sound Technicians ND Express Shipping Attendants 
Applications avaiJable at 315 Lafortune. Deadline for applying is Thursday, April 1. For more infonnation, call 631-7308. 
He noted that the idea of self­promotion -allowing children to move to the next grade level to avoid the damage caused to their self-esteem by holding them back -is ultimately detrimental. He also said that additional resources should be invested to help such children instead of allo¼ing them to move on when they have not lParned the skills required in earlier grades. 
Roemer holds a degree in polit­ical science from the University of California at. San Diego and a master's and Ph.D. in interna­tional alfiars from Notre Dame. He was first elected t.o the U.S. Congress in 1990 and represents the third dislrict of Indiana, which includes St. Joseph. LaPorte and Elkhart Com1ties in addition to port.ions ofStarke and Kosciusko Counties. 

How does $7.50 an hour sound? 
Ad designers needed for 








OBSERVER 
Call Ken at 
4-2067 

Italian dist.es, plus all you can eat sno'Wcrab legs, roast beef, shrimp, salmon, and so mucl. more. 



Brunel. I.ours: 10::JO a.m.-4:00 p.m. 
Dinner I.ours: 4:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m. 
~ ---------WHY NOT..II 
I 

Hometown: South Bend, Indiana 
I 

Favorite Sandwich: Hoosier Hot Brown 
I Nickname: Spaz
I I 

1"I joined Holy Cross when I was 18. Why wait? 
1 ANSWER THE CALL--today!" 
I --Fr. Bill Wack, C.S.C_, ND '89, '93, Associate Vocation Director I For more information on
I I 
Holy Cross' one-year I Candidate Program contact:
I I Fr. Jim King. C.S.C. or I Fr. Bill Wack. C.S.C. 1-6385
I vocation. l@nd.edu
I 
I 

.. • ---_.. FOLLOW HIM .... ? 
checkout 1HEPLUNGEatwww.nd.edu/~vocation 

Wcdne~day, Man.:h .) I, 1999 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 

Transit officials allow conductors to say 'please' 
NEWYOHK 

\Jpw Y11rk's suliwav t'.<ltJCluctors will ho .illow!'d l.o k1•Pp sHying U11• magi,· word. Tlw dty tra11sit agPncy dncidnd lu<•sday that it. do1·sn't Like to11 long, afLl'r all, to say "pl1•;isp" lwfon• asking ridPrs to "stand dPar of lhP dosing doors." Earlit•r this wtwk, thn 11g1•11L·y said rond uct()rs l'ould l11dp s1wPd tr:t i11 ,;prvi1·1•. and saV<' livP s1>1·onds flt Pv1•.rv stop. by dropping tlw W<lrd "pl1~asP." But thii idPa did11·1 sit w1·ll with ridNs aud corn­1111111·1· 11dv111·al1•s who i11sistl'd thnr11 is alw,ivs 1•111111J.{h l.i11H• to b" polill'. Transit ol'fi­rial, Wl'rt' l'tHTPd Lo quirkly admit that tlw id1•a was sillv. "\Vp an· still going Lo 1·om11 up with a wav to mak1• tlw <1111101111cn11wnts 111111'1' r1111ri~P hut williout making thn111 IPss p<llitt•," trnnsil spok,•s1111111 :\I O'lntry said. 
Painting slasher pleads guilty 
i\MSTl•:lm/\M, Nntlwrlands A man plNLd<·cl guilly Tuesday to slashing a painting of' An1<•rica11 abstract nxprns­sio11isl l3arnf'lt Nm\'!111111 in l91J7, but said hn was 1J1P11lally unlil at tlw tirnn. "1!1) said 1111 sufTNs rrn111 s1·hizophrPnia and was psychot­i1·," said .fan :\forlon, a spokcisman for tlrn Amsll'l'darn District Court. "H is now up to !Iii' lhrP1, judges to c!Pc:idc how rnsponsiblo he· is for his actions." Till' dtif'nndan t, (;Pntrd .van BladPrtHl. was charg,\d with laking a swit.l'hhlad!' knil'<' lo ttw painting "Callrndra" in A111st1•rdam's Stmlcdijk Museum, slicing tlw canvas s,weral limos. I\ verdict is due 
within two WPnks. Morn lha11 11 years ago, 
Van BladPn•n was f'ound guilty or carving. 
Malaysian authorities kill pigs to prevent virus spread 
KUAl.i\ LUMPUH. Malaysia 

\.1alaysia will dc•strny 13 million pigs lo 
lwlp curh a mystnrious pig-borne virus that 
has dainwd 71 livns. llw dnputy prim<' minis­
ll'r said T11l'sday. i\ulhorilit\S arn struggling 
to idPnliry an outhn•ak of' viral nn<'nphalilis 
Iha! has strickPn its pig-farming industry 
si111·1· (ktol)l'r hut has r1·1·p11t.Jy triggnrml a 
11:ilional lwnllh scarP. Tlw latnst. livi1 victims 
-all pig 1·ar111!'l's -dic•d Monday. Tlw gov­
n11111c·11t had initially said Llrnt about :l:i0.000 
pigs wot1ld Ill' slaughtPri•d in llw worst-hit 
stall's of NPg<'ri SPtnhila11 and l'ernk. But 
llc•ptily l'ri11tl' i\linislt'r Alidttllah Ahmad 
Badawi said Tut'sday tlial an addilional 
'J:i0,000 pigs, from odwr villagPs in Nngnri 
SPrnhilan. would havP to lin slaughtnrPd to 
p1·PvP11L tlw virus frnm sp1·Pading, Llw nation­
al llPrnama rwws agmwy rPpnrtPd. 

131.t.60 
Com1>osite
-1.10 
Volume: 

93.52 798,800,000 
VOLUME LEADERS 

11i~Jnt.1r 11no11 I S II ~::U1I 5 li~lt!il 1·n1n 
Ml< 110\UIT n.)!ti' M.\11 ~0.t.i2:SO 10.t,K 9.i.00 \~Cfll Cl~ll'Jl Alli +12 t;()ft{l +lJ, 4.~ IH.HH llUI.UJMl'l!llH Ill.I.I. II.HZ~ -t!.12 J9 t-lli 1 l1Ml',\lJ!'(lMl'l1U.lt Cl'Q O.IW-IUO +Z.9K ;12.44 < i\n1 ('UMi'lllTH csr n • ill.1{Kl ~,O.'i j()IJ,94 11Li\\il1U\1 IU !I l'I.AI t-U.IJ.-P~ +.tlJO l5.(Kl i'kl< 1IIN!.<'OM l'c.t.N tS.J,()(1()0 . .Hl.2.5 fNOO ,,.\,,t,\b lN.{"()\-1 l.'J( AM/"J +If. l){)~(I ... JO.CJ:' \()4.64 1'111111' MOR~IC ( MO -.l.<.i7.I -R.•!!> .17.7:, fl'IITI I. Cllkl' l~i'(' •.IJ025 ,,{Kl IZl.56 
¦ YUGOSLAVIA 

AFP Pholo 

Kosovar refugees arrive at the Albanian border crossing of Marina, a few kilometers away from Kukes. In Kukes, a small 
town near the border. there is chaos as refugees pour in by the thousands to escape repression by Serbian forces in 
Kosovo, while NATO airstrikes continue on Yugoslavia. 



Refugees begin to receive aid efforts 
AsSOCI/\TEll P1rnss Nearly 90,000 have fled the saying the existing one for donated $800,000 Lo tlw province since NATO $64 million was no longnr international Heel Cross. GENEVA airstrikes began last enough. The Danish government lntrwnational relief agen­Wednesday. Agencies including the released more than $1 mil­cies and governments "We are seeing a very UNHCH, World Food lion for Danish charities in began rushing tents, blan­serious refugee crisis, Program and U.N. the area, and the kets, food, and medicine which is worsening by thf) Children's Fund mobilized Norwegian government Tuesday to tens of thou­hour," UNHCR spokesman emergency teams and sup­granted $2. 7 million. sands of ethnic Albanian Kris Janowski said. "People plies to help the govern-Sweden's International refugees flooding out of are arriving exhausted, ments of Albania, Development Agency Kosovo. traumatized and terror­Macedonia and announced a contribution 
A transport plane sup­ized." Montenegro, where the of $300,000 in cooperation plied by the British govern­The airstrikes have failed refugees were fleeing. with the Swedish Hed nmnl was on its way to the to deter Milosevic's forces In Brussels, the European Cross. Albanian capital, Tirana, from carrying out what Union released $10.7 mil­Italy -which fnars many British and U.N. officials appears lo be a systematic lion. EU humanitarian ref'ugees may lwad in its said. The Unitnd States offensive against Kosovo's affairs chief Emma Bonino direction -was working donated $8.5 million to the ethnic Albanian majority. was to travel to the region with tlw Albanian gowrn­
U.N. lligh Commissioner for Hnports of mass killings Wednesday to meet with nrnnt to provide shnltnr f'or Hef'ugeHs lo buy morn sup­and forced removals cannot local authorities and aid 20,000 rtd'ugnns. plies. be verified, however, workers. Switzerland, also host to a 
Some 570,000 refugees. because international. mon­"The worst scenarios wn large ethnic Albanian popu­about a quartc'r ol' tlrn pop­itors have left the province. had imaginncl am currnntly lation, snnt tlw lwad of its u Ial ion, have lrnnn dis­U.N. rnliel' officials unfolding," said EU cataslroplw rnlinf' organiza­placPd from tlwir homes in planned lo meet Thursday spokesman Pietro Petrucci. tion to Albania. Tlw Swiss Kosovo sinl'P fighting began to draw up a new intPrna­Besides providing the plan1wd to dnliwr tnnts ror mort! than a year ago. tional appeal for Kosovo, transport plann, Britain !i,000 pnop!P. 


Virus benefits software companies 
ASSOCIATED l'llESS 
SAN JOSU, Calif. 
Amivirus software companies will rrap big benefits from thninsidious Melissa computer bug that is roam­ing across the virtual world, mutat­ing as it goes, analysts said Tuesday. 
·•A major outbreak of any virus, especially when it receives extensive coverage liki-i Moli.'>sa,. is going to be good for the antivirus business," ­said International .. Pata Corp. _. rPsoarcher Chris Christianson. 
The new computer virlls spread· quickly across the internet over the .. wookund, paralyzing corporate_()~ mail systems by getting into users' e-mail address books and sending infectedmessage& to everyon~Jn them. 
"Certainly this gets most business­es. out of the complacency they may have fallen into with _regards to any virus and raises public awareness of the need. for antivirus software," said Kevin Haus<~. nnother JDC ami­lyst. 
Antivirus software -known in the industty as .a "vaccine" ­detects .the pre1:terwe of a .computer virus in a system l:iy che.cking. for unusual attempts. to access di.sk are~$ and. s:ystem t'ilt;ls.. It also snare.hes for ~pecffic.. viruses. Most computers usedjl'i businesses and homes are equipped with the soft• ware. .·., _ ·> >'·· ...-. 
Since Meltssa ii{ a ne'\-\; virus, it slipped past1.ristalled antMrUs soft· ware. p.¢velop.~ri>.had to t1.1sh to u11ctate their Pfodllcts aml get them 
By Tuesday, va(lations w~re p6p~ · Oilt to the• public:'orice.. the virus ping up inpetsol.)al <,:Q~puters. 

Antivirus software sales reached $1.3 billion last year, according to JDC. up from $915 million in 1997 and $4:10 million in 19%. 
An a.ritivirus system for a personal C~lmputer typically costs around $50. Cqrpornte systems can cost about $15 per machine, amounting to thousands of dollars 1'01· compa­nies with lots of computers. Updates generally cost about $:1 per seat. although most Melissa patches are being otl'ered for t'rM. 
Gartner Group research analyst Arabella Hallawell said a virus like Melissa pushes technical advances at the antivirus companies as well as spurring sales. 
"The onus is on the vendors now to liguro out ways to rnact quickly to viruses like Melissa -alert cus­tomers and update and distribute the fix,'.' she said. 
. _
_____________,______..,_____________ 
Wednesday, March 31, 1999 
page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 

Dow 
continued from page 1 
market to continue to expand. despite warnings from 
experts. 
When the market closed in New York on Monday, the his­toric day was celebrated with ch e e rs fro m th e fl oor as traders threw paper into the air and New York mayor Rudolph Giuliani passed out hats that read...Dow 10,000." 
However, somP analysts 
aren't celebraliug the mar­
ket's historic five-I'igure mark 
and believe that over-specula­
tion and unnecessary risk-tak­
ing could lead to a market 
slowdown and even a panic. 
.. {The market} could keep 
raising if it was fueled by 
profitability and produt:tivity, 
hut the stock prices are going 
up much faster amidst major 
market speculation," 
Ghilarducci said. -Ghilarducci, who is an 
appointed member of the 
Fedend Pension Benefits 
Guarantee Board and the 
Indiana Public Employees 
Retirement Fund. said that 
most analysts use the 
Standard & Poor's 500 index 
as a rnore useful indicator of 
financial stability. 
The S & P 500 is a list of 500 
stocks that are weighted and 
then averaged to give a better 
indication of the strength of 
the economy, said Ghilarducci. 

The Dow, rather, measures experts' beliefs that the econ­omy will remain healthy and stock prices will stay high. 
"It's easy to say that it won't keep going up," she said, "but how long before it crashes ­no one knows." 
Economists predict a 10 per­cent crash in the bull market in the near future as compa­nies continue to give dividends to stockholder-s to keep stock prices high. This will create a shortage in im•estrnent money, leading to a slowdown and cooling-off period for what has been a red hot market since September of last year. Ghi.larducci said. 
Conliuuing global economic 
crises that shattered the 
economics of Japan, Malaysia, 
Thailand and Russia last year 
also concern experts. 

The Federal Reserve was 
forced to step in last year on 
tho Long Term Capita.I hedge 
fund, whir,h speculated iri. sev­
eral Southeast Asian markets 
and went under when their 
economies floundered. 

"Most analysts. including the 
Federal Reserve, now believe 
the stock market r-un-up is 
fueled on speculation and 
should be curved before some­
thing like what happened in 
Thailand, which affected 
Russia as well, could happen 
again," Ghilardurci explained. 
"Most professionals believe . 
that the stock market is dan­
gerous, especially now," she 
said. 

develop a capital campaign," said Timm. "This involves
Perforina 
working with those who have been friends and benefactors
continued from page 1 
of the College who are willing plan would come. and want to assist the College. "Typically, you have to "Many of the friends and 
benefactors of tho College realize that times are chang­ing and needs arc changing and we need to be able to respond to those needs on behalf of students and facul­ty," she said. 



XXV I I 
Mandatory Captain's Meeting Today 
5:30pm 101 Debartolo 

' 


Plan Ahead. Get Your Senior Portraits taken Now! Pay only $5 + tax. 
If you aren't satisfied, you can have it retaken in the fall for only $5 more! If you wait until fall, you will pay $10 for only one sitting. No retakes. 

Sign-up or Walk-in 
108 LaFortune April 5th thru April 16th 9:00 AM to 5:00 PM 

LAUREN IS THE ONLY COMPANY THAT CAN BE USED FOR SENIOR PORTRAITS 
-----------~----------------------------~~-~-------------------­
Wednesday, March 31, 1999 · The Observer • NEWS page 7 
¦ SECURITY BEAT 
ND police depart01ent auctions abadoned bikes, police cruiser 
By MIKE ROMANCHEK 
New; Writer 
Bikes, watches. calculators and a retired squad car IJrought hidders t:o Str,pan Center Tw•sday night l'or tlw smni-nm1unl Notre Darrw SN·uri ty /\1wtion. 
Tlw 19<)(, 1:ord Crown Victoria, complete with a law tinl'orcemrml packagH and rt police intPrceptor V-8 ong"inn, brought in tlrn highest hid of tlw nvening. 
South ll1ind rnsident Hon Dole bought the V(lhicl11 f11r $b.OOO. Tho Crown Victoria is tlrn fifth 1:ar Jw has purchased from Notre Dame Stlcurily a11dinns. . 
"Thn poli1·n parkagn is hard to boat, espec1~l­ly lwre from Notre Dame whern tlrny're not m llllY high speml chases,'' said Dole. ' , 
WhilP lhn Ford earrwd thti highest bill, most hitldN!-i attendnd thr auction for the bikes, \'Vatclws and j11welry. 
Last night's alll'.tion providNl sludents and ar(la rnsidcnts a chanco, to hid on 29 biktis, a murh lower number of bikes compared to past auctions. 
"This ynar w1•'v1! t.akon n difforont approath. 
W(1've brought In just the rldeabhi (bikes}." said Hex Rakow, director of Notre Da.mo Security/Police.-"In the years past we've had a lot of"Junk." 
Two hikes brought in bids of $85, but most bikes sold between $45 and $70. 
South Bend rnsident Josh Keultjes, 12. and his younger brother Shane, found a Bully dirt hike at the auction that met their standards. 
''I'm very happy with it and I got a watch too, and Shann got a Gameboy/ said the elder Keultjes. 
The bikes sold at the auction are unclaimed or ab,wdorwd bikl"ls from campus. 
Security is required by law to hold all items for 90 days before they can be given away or auctioned. 
All bikes so!d at the auction are rogistcred for free hy Security. 
Some students found the atmosphere and compntition of bidding very nntortaining while others did not. 
"I don't understand," said Keenan Hall junior. "Some peoplo think thoy'vc won a prize. But really they have to pay for it. They don't get it for free. n 



The Office of Multicultural 

Student Affairs has openings for energetic Student Interns. Must enjoy interaction with students, faculty and administrators. Computer knowledge and reliability are essential !! 
APPLICATIONS ARE AVAILABLE AT: 

The Office of Multicultural Student Affairs 210 Lafortune Student Center ij DEADLINE FOR APPLICATIONS: APRIL 7, 1999 
j. 

Clinton rejects Serbs' suggested peace plan 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 
Slobodan Milosevic could lose international recognition !'or his territorial claim on Kosovo if' th,, Serbs don't stop killing Lim region's nth-r,-:.,.,,,.,.,..,,...=:-,------:-7 
11 i C Albanians, President Clinton said Tuesday. Jin rejected a formula for 
peace olfored 


by th o Clinton 
iugoslav 
prnsident. 
"II' them was cvnr any doubt about what is af stake in Kosovo. Mr. Milosevic is certainly erasing it by his actions." Clinton said. "They an~ the culmination or more than a dccarlc of using eth­nic and religious hatrnd as a jus­tification for uprooting and mur­dering completely innocent. peaceful civilians to pave Mr. Milosevic's path to absolute power." , 
The president urged the allies to remain steadfast in their opposition to Milosevic on Day 7 of NATO's air campaign against the Serbs whil(i the administra• lion promised neighboring nations rinancial aid for Ow refugees streaming across their borders and support against Serb throats. 
"There have to be some limits bcvond which we collcctivelv do not wish to see our countr)', go and our world go," Clinton said in a keynote address Tuesday night to I.he Electronic Industries Alliance. 
While technology opens tlw door for new opportunity, il also can aid those who would destroy peace, he said. 
"When married together with the most primitive hatreds. like those we see manifest in Kosovo today, the advent of technology and decentralized decision rnak• ing and access to information can be a very potent but destruc­tive force," Clinton said. 
Some success was reported in diminishing Serb air defenses and strikes against troops sta­tioned just outside Kosovo. But a Pentagon spokesman cautioned against expecting a quick "knockout punch," and tlrn mili­tary rcl'usnd to dntail the damagli ~ATO has inflicted on the Serbs. 
U.S. policy has opposod i11dn­pPndence moves in Kosovo and supportlid Serbia's claim to tlw provinrn. During pnac<! talks this month in Hambouillnt, Francn, Lim Clinton administration ~up­ported autonomy -hut 110I indepm1dencn -for tlrn majority othnic /\llrnnians in Kosovo. Milosevic rnjncted that plan. 

Administration of'licials insist­ml that thorn had bl1!m no policy change. but during a Stat<' Dcpartmnnt ccrnmony honoring formnr Socrntary of Statn Warrnn Christoplwr. Clinton sig­nalnd that Lim St>rbs' artions in Kosovo carriPd a Jlricn: the loss or int<'rnatio1rnl support for Milosnvir's claim on the rngion. 
"Today lw f'arns lhn mounting eost of' his co11linund aggres­sion," Clinton said. "For a sus­tained period, wo will see that his military will bn snriously diminished. key military infra­strueturn destroyed, the prospcel for inlflrnational support for Serbia's claim to Kosovo incnms­ingly jeopardized." 
To the 18 otlrnr NATO coun­tries, with whose\ hmdlirs lrn has been in frnquPnt contact. !w · said: "Wn must remain stPady and clntnrminml with tlw will to see this through." 
Senato Armed Sorvicns 

Committee Chairman .John 
Warrn~r. H-Va., said atlt•r 1.1 brief~ ing by Joint Chiefs of' Stall' offi­cials that it· was "clnar that wii should stay the co1irsl' as planned." 
"Tim stakes, particularly for the Unitl'd Statns, an• V!'ry high hem. It's nol just tho crndibility of NATO, it's the crndihility ol' the Unitod States in ol.hnr v11ry troubled arnas of tho world ­whetlrnr it is North Korr.a, or Iraq or lhe liko," he said. 
The prnsident was briel'ncl on Miloscvic's proposal to r1:turn lo the 1rngotiating table onco NATO halted the bombing by Gerinan Chancc. llor Gerhard Schroeder, who met with Hussian Prime Minister Yevgeny Primakov on Primakov's return from Belgrade. Clinton dismissed the terms as "unacceptable." 

McGlinn Hall . 
Would like to thank the foll~wing busmesses furtherrgen&oustlonanonstowards Casino Night, beld on March 26, 1999: 
"Borden:,
•Hammes Book6ton:: 
~lontlie'6 Cookies 
•Unlver6ity Park Cinema Wefit 
"Lide;
•Camelot 
Mue;ic 


•f.armle May
•Papt1 
Vind&· 

•sARG 
•oon Pablo's 
"The Alumni A660Ciation .,,
•s,uak 'n Sr.a~ 
•untven,ity Htllr Styti&t6 :·11 
•Outl:>ack Steakhouse 
"1he Hut.idle Mart 
"Ryan's ~akG 
"Mdjer
-TGI Friaay'e; 
"Rec~r& 
"lri6h Gard~n6 
"'Nomen'e; Ba&ketball 
•ND Football Office 

*And to ~II thooo who attendee.ii 
Thank "Wu Ut 


continued from page l 
that the federal government is facing," Conklin said. "Because China has certain governmental policies that go against the grain, do we accept this or isolat{1 them because of it? 
"A lot of goods at many colleges are manufactured in China, so this is a big issue. This is a complex issue that the federal government has to deal with every day," he said. 
Aaron Kreider, president of the Progressive Student Alliance, expressed concern that only two students are on the task force. 
"Choosing two representatives from student government wasn't the worst thing, but I am not sure that either have done much work on the issue," said Kreider. "It would be a good idea to have some activists on the committee." 
Kreider also questioned the qualification of the commit­toe members in general. 
"Putting u bunch ol' upper-middle-class students and administrators from Notre Dame on the committee -they will have a lot of book smarts -but they have probably never seen this going on, which will not lead to a very bal­anced committee," he said. 
Marybeth Graham, Graduate Student Union president and task force member, said that the task force will work well as long as the represnntatives work with other stu­dents. 
"Morn people isn't always better. The studnnt rnps 
[should be] informed of the students' and organizations' 
concerns," Graham said. "My role will be to know what 
grad students think. and [Micah] will hopPfully do the same 
with the undergraduates." 
Murphy said that if the students and organizations work 
togetlrnr, the reprnse11tation will not be a problem. 
"I don't know the reasons or the r.rit1~rion [for member 
selection]. I'm not going to question that," Murphy said. "J 
will represent the students. I have already gotten together 
with concerned students to share resources and hope to 
work hand in hand with them." 
Murphy also added his optimism about the task force and 
what it will be able to accomplish. 
"I think that everyone at Notre Dame agrees and can get 
behind this 100 percent," he said. 
· The task force consists of: Hoye, James Lyphout, associ­
ate vice president for business operations; Melissa Conboy, 
associate athletic director; Richard Conklin, vice president 
for University relations; Cathleen Kaveny, associate profes­
sor of law; Whitmore; Thomas Swartz, professor of eco­
nomics; James Paladino, associate director of the Center 
for Social Concerns; Lee Tavis, professor of finance; 
Murphy; Graham; Steve Jesseph, executive director of the 
Global Workplace Values & Safety for the Sara Lee 
Corporation; Susheela Jayapal, general counsel of Adidas 
America, James Baumann, presiden.t of ih-6 .U-i.gh~ 
Education Group of Follett; and Dennis Moore, director of 
Notre Dame Public Relations and Information. 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

The danger from the fast-moving e-mail virus known as Melissa has appeared to ebb as several diluted versions appeared on the Internet. 
Researchers cautioned, however. that a thrnat still remains. 
"There are malicious virus writ­ers out there. hut they're not using these techniques,;, said Dan Schrader, director of producl mar­keting for Trnnd Micro Inc., an antivirus company in Cupertino, Calif. "They will.'' 
Melissa showed up Friday and spread rapidly around the world on Monday like a malicious chain letter, causing affocted comput<\rs Lo fire off dozens or infected mcs­sag£'S to friends and colleagues and swamping e-mail systems. 
While there have been no reports o!' permanent damage f'rom Melissa, it di5ruptcd the operations of thousands of companies and government agencies whose employees were temporarily unable to communicate by e-mail. 

The virus arrives to its victims disguised as an e-mail from a friend, with a note in the subject line saying that an important docu­ment is attached. 
The attachment is a Microsoft Word document that lists Internet pornography sites. Once the user opens the attachment, the virus digs into the user's address book and sends infected documents to the first 50 addresses. 
One of the variations that appeared Tuesday -carrying the name Melissa.A -leaves the sub­ject line blank, a change that cuu l'oil electronic filters that are designed lo detect and delete the original message, Schrader said. 
Another variant, "Papa," appeared Monday afternoon. rt attaches a Microsoft Excel spread­sheet document which, when opened, sen-ds out 60 e-mails. llowever, Papa has bugs that sometimes prevent it from work­ing. 
"From our analysis we don't feel 
it's anywhern near the threat that 
Melissa is," said Steve Trilling, a director of research at Symantec, a maker of virus detection software. 
A third virus, called "Mad Cow Joke" has also appeared, Schrader said. and works like Melissa, send­ing itself to 20 people in the vic­tim's e-mail address book. 
The danger of all the variants is that virus writers will find them on Lhe Internet, correct the bugs and distribute them l'urther. 
Separately, an executive with a Cambridge, Mass.-based software company said he had found clues linking the virus to a still-unidenti­fied writer using tho computer handle "VicodinES." 
Hichard Smith, president of Pbar Lap Software. which makes oper­ating systems and software tools. said he thinks the author distrib­uted it using an account stolen from America Online 15 months ago. 
A month ago Smith revealed that the popular Microsoft Office soft­ware applications place a Si1cret serial number in documents that can be used to identify a particular computer user. 



Politician fined for book sales 
Associated l'ress 
SINGAPORE 

An opposition politician pushing for greater free­doms in tightly controlled Singapore was convicted Wednesday of selling his book on dissidents without a license. 
Chee Soon Juan, 36, head of the Singapore Democratic Party, paid a fine of $350 and charged that authorities discriminated against him. 
The trial that began on Tuesday was Chee's latest run-in with authorities in this city-state. He as been imprisoned twice in the past six weeks for giving political speeches without a police permit. He says regulations stifle Singapore's constitutional guaran­tees of free speech, association and assembly. 
The latest charges stemmed from attempts to sell his book about Asian dissidents, "To Be Free," in the 
71,e-cla-66~ ~it/4, 

06-6e--t--v-e--t.-ct~66i/ie-d6. 


TiUA.e fs R.w111f11g ouf fo renf 011e of our spa.cfous fwo-bedroow TownhoJMes for the 99-00 School fdeo.rf 4pply Today. get ass[gned. tow.orrow! 

Turtle Creek Apartments

212-8124 

Raffles Place business district Dec. 22 without a pub­lic health permit. 
Chee, who defended himself, admitted in Magistrate's Court that he had not sought the license. but claimed discrimination. 
In final arguments Wednesday, he said he had sold two earlier books in public without incideut. 
"One can only assume that it is this present book, 'To Be Free,' that has somehow made the ruling regime a little bit more irate than the first two books," said Chee. 
"Doesn't it show you, your honor, that this sum­mons ... is politically motivated?" said Chee. "It is an inescapable fact that this system has discriminated against me." 
The judge found Chee guilty of selling the book without a license and gave him a choice of the fine or three days in prison. 
EARN S8/BR AND FREE 





ROOM AND BOARD! 

------------....­
Wec.lncsday, March 31, l 999 The Observer• NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
FBI delves into sex torture case 

1-:1.t:PI I/\NT IHITTli, N.M 
!lowns ol' !·Bl ag'PlllS, indud­
i11g psy!'l10logil'ul ''prof'ilnrs" 
sppi•ializing in macabrP rrimi•s, c:onvnrgnd 011 a Lrailnr 
lwrrw l1H'sday in an apparPnt 
111 urd,. r in v o st igatio11 th at 
IH•gan with  a  cast• ol' Sl!Xlllll  
torllll"P.  
TIH·  ras1·  lieg.i 11  to  unfold  

wlwn 11 woman ,~sca1wd from tlw hDnH' Wf'aring only a pacl­lod;1•d 11wtal l'1tl111r atlarlwd lo a l'hain. Slw said slw hacl bPPl1 kid1wppPd and tortured by David Hay and Cindy llnndy. 
:'\notl11•r woman lhPn canw li,rward and said she, loo. had l11•1·n l.orturntl and pros1w11tors !'il,•d 1'11arg1•s n-lating to tlw snrond victim Ttwsday. 
l11v1•stigato1·s have lw,~n sParrhing llw dusty hall'-acrn lot arourHI Hay's clouhlt•-widfl traill'r honw l'or scvPral clavs. 
lhi,y havl' ,·xpandcd tticir SPHTTli for vi,:tims or witrwss­!'S i11to Arizona, Tnxas and M1!xico and urg,id anyonn ols1\ who PscapNI till' rouplt>'s lor­tun! to ,·0111c forward. 
Slat<• l'uhli1: Safnty S1•1Tl'Lary Da1-r1•11 WhilP said i11vosligalors hav«' collnctod 111or1• lhan I.000 pipc1•s of evi­dc111T, am pursuing mon• than !0 0 I1\ ads "l II rough out the 1·n1111try" and havP brought in tlH1•p FBI "profilnrs," tho hl'l1avioral s1wdalists dopictnd in "Th,, Si11•11cP ol' llw Lambs." 
"This is a vnry dark, v1iry disl11rhi11g rasp !'or 1w<'ryo1H\ involvPd," WhitP said. "Wo twlinv,• this rnsn involv,~s morn victims. and w,• won't rule oul lhP possibility this case i11volves bomicick." 
Ile said hn roared divulging loo many dntails lrncauso it would involve "descriptions so vile" nlh11r victims might not 
C(ltnn !'orward. 
··wo believe tho nightmare is bohind bars," Wliit(i said. 
Hay, !ii), is r.harged with kid­napping and crimi11al sexual pnnntration. llendy, ~9. is ('barged with kidnapping and accnssory to criminal siixual lll'llClration. 
Both are charged with con­spiracy and assault. Tim 25 counts also indudo chargns of' aggravated batt<'ry. criminal s11x11al contact and additional counts of criminal snxual ()('ll­11tratio11 and conspiracy. 
'THIS IS A VERY DARK, 
VERY DISTURBING CASE 

FOR EVERYONE INVOLVED.' 

Dt1m1FN WmTF 
STATh P/JHUC S11FETY SECJ/1:TAR'r 
i\llrnrl Costales. Hay's attor­rmy, said his clim1l is innocnnt. 
"I do not lrnlitwH any of il is l'oundncl on anything more than rumors. sensationalism," he said. 
The woman who escaped wmlring Urn collar told author­ities she met Hay and Hendy in :\lbuquorqun, wht!ro Hay showed her a badge and told her she was under arrest for prostitulion_ Sim said she was s,ixually tortured and shocked with nlnctricity over three days at their home near the lake 

before escaping March 22. 
An acquaintance of Ilondy's, John Branaugh, said Tuesday !.hat llendy told him Hay had killed four t.o six other victims, mutilated tlH! bodies and dumped them in Elephant Bulle Lake, I50 miles south of Albuquerque, She said othnr bodi11s worn buried in the desort, Branaugh said. 
The couplr. kept torture devices in a wood and glass case they called "the toy box." Branaugh said. He says he didn't believe llondy was telling the truth at first. since she made the remarks whiln "in a drunknn stupor." 
lie says Ire went to police 
after he saw a report on Urn 
casn on le le vision. 
Hendy said she participated 
in the tortures for the "adrnn­
alin rush," Branaugh said. 
David Kitdwn, FBI agent in 
charge for New Mexico, said 
Hay hasn't provided much 
information. But White said 
Hendy "has been a bit more 
cooperative." lie would not 
elabnrate. 
Investigators have strung 
blue tarps across the rear of the Hay and Hendy home and set up picnic tables behind the tarps to process evidence. 
The fenced-off property includes a carport with a four­wheel-drive vehicle, a couple of storage sheds and two boats. 
Font-high metal stakes with red and green flags dotted the yard where FBI agents cata­logued evidence Tuesday. Bone l'ragments found on the scene earlier in the search turned out to be from animals, not humans, police said. 


Man faces Illurder charges for killing girlfriend, friends 
Associated Presa 
ABILENE, Texas 

A 19-year-o]d man was charged Tuesday with killing his 
girlfriend and throe of her friends -possibly hocauso slw 
refused to help him conceal a crime. 
Authorities were hunting for Arthur Goodman and his 16­
yeM~old broth1w, who may have been with him whnn the 
shootings occurred Monduy afternoon. An apartment handy­
man who might have been trying to help the women wus shot 
In the abdomen and critically wounded. 
Goodman's girlfriend, Sandy Witt, 20, lived in a duplox in a 
high-crime area of this west Texas city, which is homn to 
three Chrlstia,n universititlS and m1 Air F<m:n base. Tlw city 
had six homicides in all of l998. 
Detective Jay Hatcher said family and friends gave police 
two versions of a. possible motive. 
In one, Witt wouldn't supply an alibi to police !'or an undis­
closed crime in which Goodman is a suspect. In the other, 
Witt was planning to give police incriminating information 
about Goodman. 

Witt's friends -Naomi Martinez, 23; Erica Arispe, 21; and 
Penny Estrada, 21 -''just happened to be in the wrong 
pla,~~ at the wrong time," Hatcht1r said. 
"Apparently Goodman wedged himself botwocn the women 
and the door and, as they tried to escape, he shot them one 
aftor another," Hatcher said. 

Police believe handyman Larry Hammond was shot in the 
stomach as he ran to help the women. 
Officers also suspect Goodnrnn in the Sunday night shoot­
ing of a 16-yoar-old boy who survived. Police wouldn·t say if .-thatwas_ the crime to which a possible motive might be linked. Hatcher said the motive in that shooting was reveng<' 
for an aitack on Goodman's 16-year-old brother. 
Estrada's mother, Juanita Valdez, joined dozens of people 
who visited Witt's duplex Tuesday to pray, leave flowers or 
poetry and light candles in memory of the four slain womun. 
"Theywere like sisters they wore so close," slrn said. "They 
all loved each other so much, I can't believe this happened." 
IW~i+e fo~ v\S. Call 1-5323./ 
~Vee \\\V•ellcc(OJJ.rn1e \')...v1i1t]h jjo>y t]h<e if<ollll<o>v-.vtimtg 1nnueJ.ntlb><e1r§ odf t]h1ce N<O>tt1rce ]D>c-at][)nt(e ifcallnrniilly lllnttt(Ol tlh<e (Ccatt1ht<O>lli<c (C]hurll§tttaurn <C(Q>Jnnunrn1uc1rniitty!! 
lt1Hr1E ]E1LJE<c1r 
& their sponsors 
KEITH ANDERSON 
Jason Braun 
DEANETTE lBlRITrlNG 
Jared Knudson 
N ICHOLEEN DElPERSIS 
Amanda Dovidio 
DON DILLON 
Tracy Van Meter 
DUSTIN !FERRELL 
Rachael Sederberg 
BRET HENDRICKSON 
Robert Barnidge 
JOHN HOLMES 
S11e Holmes 
SHANDELL HUNTER 
Samuel Vasquez 
MATT KLEIN 
Julie Klein 
ELIZABETH KOPP 
Crystal Ann McMillan 
WENDI MANUEL 
Clijf Manuel 
MARK OVERDEVEST 
Bridget McCarthy 
JON-MICHAEL WHEAT 
Andrea Herek 
YUMIK0 °YAO 
Bill Keen 
Speciall Thank§ 
to the RCIA team for their support of these men and women throughout their journeys to becoming Catholic . 
Mandy Dillon  Kevin Monahan  jenny Robinson  
Cheryl Healy  Elizabeth Moriarty Tracy Van Meter  
Brian Herlocker  Cort Peters  Tami Schmitz  
Renee La Reau  Sam Peters  Frank .Santoni  
Dawn Lardner  Fr. Peter Rocca, CS, C  

These men and 

lL]H[]E <CANJD)nJD)A1rJE§ 
women will 
& their sponsors 
RYAN 
lBlLACKSTONE-GARDNER
receive the 
Mike Cassidy 
lLETITIA BOWEN 
Sacrament of 
Chandra Johnson 
MATT JB\RADLEY 
Neil Bratney
Initiation or be 
CLIFFORD CAMAMILE 
AnthonyJohn Sieh 
DEREK CHALFANT

received into Full 
Brian Reinhart 
ANN DAVID 
Walter Kasinskas
Communion at 
CHRISTOPHER EMMERT 
Katie Pytlak 
llAIN GOULD
the Easter Vigil 
Charlie Rice 
STACY KtNG 
at 9:00 p.m. 
Pat Peters 
SHANE LUZADDER 
Je/JJones
Saturday in the 
JllUE MAURA 
Heidi Bradley 
MATT MISCHKE
Basilica ofthe 
Heather Mischke 
]P,ATRICK MURPHY 
Joe Big,gr
Sacred Heart. 

SH.\ZZIE NASEEM 
Leah Himmelberg 

TERRI O'REILLY 
Colleen Knight 
LISA ]PELLEGRINO 
Anthony Bianco 
]B\RETT lPERKINS 
Andrew Gawrych 
J!osH PINI 
Nathaniel Hannan 
JB',RJAN ROBINETTE 
Sean Farnan 
SUNNY SJRRIANNA 
Sara Campney 
RUTH TONER 
Chris Toner 
ADAM TURNER 
Alicia Givas 
GORDON WALKER 
Rachel Willcox 
SCOTT WARNOCK 
Kevin McG/onc 
ELIZABETH WJLSCHKE 
Sarah Gadawski 
LUSIENA WONG 
Jackie Woo 
!BENJAMIN ZoLADZ 
Mary Cihak 
.. 
0MPU5 
tv11NISTRY 





VIEWPOINT 
page 10-------------------------oss~RVER Wednesay, March 31, 1 999 
THE OBSERVER 

NOTRE DA\IE 0FrTCE: P.O. Box Q, :--Jotre Dame, IN 46556(219) 631-7471 
1999-2000 GENERAL BOARD 
EonoR-IN-CHIH 
Michdle Krup11 
MANAGl>IC EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
M. Shannon Ryan D::ive Rogero 
As.<ISTANl MANAGING EormR Laura Pcno,Ue 

NEWS EDITOR ...............................Tun Logan AoVE!tTISING MANAC.Ell...•...•...•..•••.•••,.Bryan Lmz VIEWPOINT EDITOR .............Collecn Gaugl10n AD OFSIGN MANAGER ...............Kenneth Kearncy SPORT~ EDITOR... . ............ Rri:111 Ke-11;sl("T SYSTEMS l\1ANAGFR............... Michael Revers SCENE EnlTOR.... ..... Michael V,ncg:,s CoNTROl.tER.. . ........Timorhy Lone SAINT MARY'S EmroR ..... Colleen McCnrthy GRAPHICS EDITOR..............................Jne Mu.lier P1-t0To ErnroR ,....,,... ,.. ,.,.......Kevin Dulurn \X'EB Anf\.1tMSTRA"I-OR ....................Erik Kmluo 
111e ( )h~crvcr is (he imL:pu1denl n1..w~paper puhlish1...J b!' 1hc stud,i,_·11(\ of thr University of Notre D.1111c <lu Lac a11d S.1int 1'..fary•~ Co1!1..-gl·. It ,d,l1..'S not l\l'CCS.\.uily rdlrct rh~ policic.~ d the ;1Jmini,trJtio11 C1f citlt<·t i1istiturion. The ne,\!:, is r,.:porm:! J~ at:.<.:ur:1h.•lr a11J <lhj<·ctivdy oh pm,.,ihk-Uiisigncd nliwri:1!~ rcpn..'ki'II rhc 1lpini.on of,he majority of the Lhrnr..i11..Chi'-J M,in;tging Etfic.nr. A.,si,;t;\JH '-1,m,1,gin_s F.dit.or :mJ dc1~;1rtml.'nt cdiron:. Commenc~rit'>, letters ::111d \:'nh1mns pr1..'l>l'nt rill' VIC.'\YS (lhlw :iuth(1TS ;md !HlT lll'C(,...,;'.arily th()',l' nf·rn... Ohst·rv,·r. Viewpoint '>P:lCt• is ~1v:ti!:.1blc co ;lll mi:mbC"r\ <if the Nurre D.1mc/S.1im M,iry·s wmmuniry .ind ro ,11! r-t":\dl'rs. Tht' free cxprc~~ion of v;1rying opiniom throu~h lcn-tr,, i;; t•nnmr.1~~-J. 
Contacting The Obsenrcr 

Edimr-in-Chicf  631-4542  Oftice Mans_gcr/GenerJI Information  631-7471  
?v1anatoing Editm/A.~si,-,rant ~E  631-4541  Bu,ins» Oflicc  631-5313  
New:,,  631-532.l  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
Viewpoint  631-5303  SysrenH/\Xieb Administrato1  G31 ~8839  
Sports Scene  631-454.l (dl-4540  fax Ad E-Mail  631-6927 observer@darwin.re.nd edu  
Saine Mary',;  631-4324  News F.-!\.1ail  observer.ohsnews.1@nd.edt1  
Photo  631-R767  Viewpoint E-Mail  observer viewpoinr. !@nd.edu  


¦ Lcnrn TG THE tO!TOH 

Majerus Would Pack the JACC 

look to tlw future. l began telling myself that any coach was good at this point. This notion changed wlwn I heard that Hick Majerus was Notre Dame's lN1ding candidatr. to fill the void left by MacLeod. I thought it was a rumor holding no water, but then heard it was legitimate. Hoy was I thrilled! 1began just imagining the portly Majerus running up and down the Notre Dame sideline in his renowned sweater, rant­ing and raving, sweating and cursing, pouring his guts out l'or the team and school. 
The saga to win over Mc~jerus ran for a few days and, aftnr rejecting San Diego State's head coaching job, said hP. would eittwr choose Notre Dame or rcilurn to Utah. Again. I was getting my hopes up. Then. Rick '.Vlajc•rus told l\'otrP Dame thanks, but no thanks. I hon­estly was a hit disappointnd. but happy that wn gave it our linst shot. 

ted to cheating. Malloy and Beauchamp, I bet if you could get an honest answer from everybody at this school, whether professor, student, or coach, everybody would admit to cheating at one time or another. 
Wh,m hearing about our interest in Majerus. I was looking forward to buying season tickets, as were many of my friends. He would have lilied the seats and put a winner on the court -there is no doubt in my mind. The man was willing to make a l'nw compromises likll buying a house instead of living out of a suitcase as lrn does at Ctah. As for trying to make Majerus wear a suit and tic, that's absolutely ludicrous. That's like trying to make 11ennis Rodman keep his natural hair color, tone dow11 his voracious playing stylP, and \War khaki pants with a golf' shirt. Dennis llodm,rn just wouldn't be the same, as Majerus wouldn't havn either. If I wnrc Majerus, I would have donn Urn same thing. Who wants to live their lil'e under the vigilant eyes of undeserving people? I know I don't and neither did Majerus. 
A widely accepted truth at Notre Dame is that there is really nothing to do after football season is over. Students are begging for an excuse to leave their dorm rooms for some entr.rtainment. Instead of making this dream a reality, we'll have to suffer for a few more years and make the same mistake when this coach fails. Notre Dame has a special reputation of being a high caliber academic, spiritual, and athletic institu­tion. Why is it then that we always have to setlle for second or third tier basketball coaches? I'm sick and tired of this premise just because Notre Dame has an image to uphold. This image makes us look snooty and aloof f'rom the public because we can't hire a guy who speaks the truth. I'm also sick and tired of seeing Notre Dame always settle for a coach. We lost Majerus and Alfonl, and apparently can't hire Calipari because of his faulty image. 
The simple fact is lhat Notre Dame students love sports and even more love a winner. With Majerus, the JACC would be filled every night knowing there would be some form of competition on the floor. Instead we have to settle for a subpar team (therc's that word "set­tle" again -I hate il) who busts their hump to reach the .500 barrier and prays for an invitation to the lowly NIT, but of course has a proper coach. I think I speak for the entire student body when I say I'd rather have a team in the running for the NCA\ tournament champi­onship game and have a coach with a minor blemish (if that's what you consider it). I'm sick of rooting l'or other teams during March; I want to root for Notre Damn. 
Just go through the motions, Wadsworth, because apparently your job is nrnaningless. Thanks l'or the\ effort, but it was out of your hands. 01w suggestion Father Malloy -please let Wadsworth do his job and you concentrate on yours. I!e's doing just line. One morn suggestion -if no one is good enough to takP tilP Notre Dame head baskntball coaching job, why don't you do it yoursell'! You am apparently the only perfort one in this hnctic world. Father, rPmemlrnr -"forgivn and forgel." 
Adam Tracey Soph., !v1orrisscy Manor March 2'i, 191/'l 
¦ 0GUNES8Ull'f 
H(J(,QSkJet3T.I 
'rVl?Att­YQ'.IY& R/ii4l.· fUap;­t-Y~AU ~5IX''.1
1 
MY MOVIE:'5 7 l 

GARRY TRUDEAU  
MYFAVCJf<tUSl<lffl?£''CHJG­ALJJ6 •AN/? "l'OMPON PAM''.! ANllIMA B/6FAN Of YWR AJU!:.­~5CEN/3/N '8fi&R 8!A!iJUS'.I '-._  H~Y,7VAKIPIJUTAUI IN Jo,wA,ITU/A5[)//) IA/A~ ti/<£ A 'JRIP 7DUNBlff70N CHICA90/MY /3lOI.J!:ie. 1,,.--· ~~I t  
,Iii  

¦ UtHlTE Of THE OtW 
'There's not an American solution to every foreign problem.' 
-President John F. Kennedy 



VIEWPOINT 
Wnlrn:sday, March 31, l 999 
---------------------------page 11 
¦ LIKE ARROWS IN THE HANO OF A WARRIOR ¦ PROGRESSIVE STUDENT ALUANCE 

God Became Man 
Last w1•,•k. WP rdPhrutccl 1>1w ol' my favorite days. It was the 1·omn11Hnoratio11 of tlw clay that my 1rnmnsake. Urn archangnl Cahri<'l, was sPnt on a Vl\ry spl'rial mission. IIn was told to go to a r:1•rtai11 W(lf1Jl1fl, ill a ct)rtain housn, in a c1•rtai11 Lown, in a certain 1·01111try. in a }iartirnlar point in t.inrn. I lis mission was to trll her 1hnl llw vr•ry Son or thH Cr<'ntor ol' tlw UnivHrso dnsirnd to havc !wr as a mollwr. I don't know if' this se11tm1c1i sounds trite in its l'ami!i11rity or if if shorks you. The litct .ls that (;od, in an lmprrs­sivl' show ul' I lis power and Ilis majPsty, d10s1\ 
lo !l!'l'OllH' a man ­
Gabr·1el

limill'd, small. c111rl v11l-. IH'f'illJll­'J'his 111a11 was born in 
a wry sp,•rilk plat'.(', al 

Mart·1nez 

a linw wlwn nobody was paying a!IP11tion. 11,• grnw as any otlwr 
C'11ild, but hn was a very s1wrilic child. IIP WPlll to school, wlrnre with llis sup(irb intelli­gP11c<' Ill' grasped what ,vas lming taught. lie worked a very spe­rilk tradP, unckr tll!' rnw who fulfiller! the rol(i of' father for llim. 
IIP l<'arrwd tlw l'al"ts of lil'n l'rom llis mother: That nnw cloth sowt>cl to 111m1d an old garmnnl will tnar and will make the tfmr PVl'll wmsl'. II,\ partiPd. I le laugh<'d. Ihi rriml. lie was at the dNLllllicd of' tlui man IIn looked up to tho most, I lis l'alhnr on Parth. 
FvPnlually. IIP walkPcl thn roads of the land that had nourished I li111. and IIP did wlrnt I In could do lrnst: tlw will of Llw one who had s1•11t llim. 
I might Sl'Plll to havn takrn s1wcia! pains to b11 politically inc_or­n•rl. That is a by product of my point. God lmcamn man. lie did not lwconw a g1•1wrk human being. [In did not just take flc~sh: lie took a VPry sppc·ilir llPsh, a n•rtain DNA. emit•. llis nycs had this , ('())or. llis hair was partl'd in that way, llis hands held the tools ol I!is lnHIP in lhal otlwr ,vay, and, yes. orrn of I !is ehrornosorncs was a Y-rhro111oso11w. 
l ltaV!' vc•rv lilll<• dou!it that Iii> must have lrnen (anct still is) striking_ Ill 1(,ok at. Al'lt•r all. I le rnceivnd I lis humanity from a pnr­l'nl IJC'auly. (;iris musl havti l'alhin likt\ llies around llirn. This guy. !<'lldf•r an<I forn!l'ul. n•sponsihle and funny, bright ct!l(1 good-look­ing. must havP IH•m1 01w l'l\ally good f'rinnd and could havn rnadn a w11ndPrl'ul hushand and l'athnr. Why llin past tcnsn'? lie is my bnst friPnd. II<· is thn Spoust' ol' tlrn Church. 
Simply pt1I: .lns11s, tlw Son of 1;od, tlw littirnal W<:rd 1Jngottn1~ by lht' 1:allwr l1t•forc• I inw lwgan, lwcamn a man. Not .1ust a generic pPrsmi, hut a vt>ry spncilic man. But choosin~ specificity..lie 1•xc-l11d1•d all ol' us, all ol' thos,~ who arp not Illrn. By choosmg to haw. say, !an skin and black nyes. Ile ex,:ludnd brov.·n-nyed pno­plP likt• 11w and fair-skirnwd prn1plP like sw<wt Theresa. By choos­ing lo bi• horn .lt•wish, a sophist can say that IIn excludml those born l!oma11. l!y d10osi11g lo lw born mal11, a sophist can say that IIP nxdud<•tl tlwsn horn fomalt!. 
llul !I(• did not PxdudP. Ile rhos!' lo bncome orw of' us: a spncific pNso11. with s111\dlk rharactcristics. Thal soumlml like foolish­n1>ss to llw (;n•Pk, and it sounds like pr<'judicP to tlw Modnrn. But Lil(' fart is Lhal PVPry <HIP of' us, you and me and the guy sitting rwxt lo you. am vnry s1wcilic-.. I lmvn black hair. She has blun nyes. 11<• has largP fl'cl. Sim has rnd lips. 1111 plays soccer and reads /.ola. Slw majors in physics and listnns to Vivaldi. Wn am spncific. So is IIP. 
This vPry spt•rific-man, who was also God, chose one day to do so11wthi11g (mlirPly out of Uw ordinary. lie d1os11 to die. lln chose lo kl llimsc·ll' lw killnd. But contrary Lo so many othnrs who hate tlwir liv,is, IIP lov1id I lis life-. 1111 prefom•d to din than to kt us ­you and 11w and tlrn girl standing lwforn you -dh Wn, all ol' us -.IPW anti c;rn,liln -at orw Limn or anotlwr took a lash and srnurgcd llim. You pil'kt~d out the thorns. I hammernd thnm into llis h,•,ul You pushed llim. I spat u-pon llim. You held Ilis hand whilt• I drove a nail through it. Tognthnr, wo scornod llirn and waldmd llim cliP. 
Tlw last thing Ihi did bnl'ore I lo was carrind into tlrn tomb was to siled w11t1•r and blood out of the wound on I lis side, tlm last of many wounds. /\.rtnr a life or constant virtue. of pcrfoct devotion to llis 111'utl1or, t.o llis frionds, to those who Wtffll sick and weary -a life• of'ministrv and irnrvko -lhi chosu to givt\ us evnn morn. We struck llim, a·nd Ile bltissml us. W(l pierced llis side, and I le gave us fountains of' gram and peace -the sacraments. 
Corl, millPnnia ago, knockt~d on the door of' I.ho f'airnst virgin of' thPlll all and took your nat,urn lo make you f'rne. This very specific 111a11 dit!d so that II is 1•xecutinncrs might live. /\nd them. lie rose. 
c;ahrfo/ Xct11ier /1,Jartinez uiritl'.S t!/lery other Wednesday. 
'/'hi' I/tell'!/ l'xpressf'd in this column are those ofthe aullwr and fl()/ TWCf'S.rnrily llwse ,f·nie Obserl'er. 
Will ND Lead or Follow in Sweatshop Activism? 
This month, Notre Damn has announced several initialivos designed to ensure LhaL prod­ucts bearing our name am not made in sweatshops. While it is great that the /\clministration is addressing this issue, I believe that so far they have: l'ailnd to makn sufficient progress and that thnir currnnt approach is severely !lawed. 
The vast majorily of stuclnnts, faculty, and administrators will agree that we do not want to contract with sweatshops. So at lirst glance, it might appear 
that wo could all agrno on =============::=== exact violations am nver 
the most orfoctive way of eliminating sweatshops and 
simply procoed to implemnn­tation. llowevnr sinco the definition of "sweatshop" is openly debated, both the 
rules that we will insist that companies follow and the pace of their implementation are up for grabs. Our cur­rent code of conduct lets 14­year-old kids work for 60 hours a week, seven days a week, for minimum wage (which can be v,ery low in tho Third World). Is this a sweatshop'? 
1was pleased to learn that the act ministration has formed a Laskfor.ce on sweatshops including administrators, f'acul­
ty and studnnts. I'res1'dent Malloy sent out invitations for people to join the corn-mitten. I did not rnccivc an invitation so I applied on my own initiative. You see I think that someone who has a bachelor's in eco­nomics, has studicdone ycar at the graduate level, has spent hours of his own time rnsnarching the isstw, is an activn member in the Unitnd StudPnts Against SwHatshops and a known radical supportr:r of human rights should be on Urn committee! If the adminis-I.ration wants to cmsure that Notro Dame enacts the strictest anti-sweatshop policy possible, it should invitn the most outspoken human rights advocatns who will ensure that no stone is lef't unturned, that no compromised agreement that will let swnatshops slip-by is reachod. It should includn members of the PSA Many 
other schools have two or more student activists on their com­mittec. My application was 
· ted.reJeC , 
Beyond my disappointment at the exclusion of studm1t activists from the tu.skforce, I am concornnd about the critical issmis that the University has nut addressed, First, wn have not made any move to require a living wage. We fail to ensure that the average working family making Notre Dame apparel lives abovfl tho poverty line. Some say that agreeing to a Iiv­ing wage is "too risky," since the sizo of wage increase is rif•batabln. I believn that Catholic social teaching makes it imperative that we swiftly implemcnt a living wage and that the "risk" of adding a cou­pie dimes or quarters to the cost of a Notre Dame shirt or hat is well worth it. 
Ilow can our Code orConduct (rules that are designed to ensure that our goods aron't business with I.he r.ornpany tlwy produced in swnatshops) bn am monitoring! A.IHI if' that. enforced il'we rel'usc~ t.o ndnase isn't c111ough, this limit cun bc the location of our l'actories'? waivml. Under tho FL/\., as !'Pw The Unlversity of' Michigan as 5 percent of' facilitins will lw requires that all new contracts inspected each year. Facility agree to publidy disclos1i all Urn locations are to he kept s11crnt, factory locations. Other schools and if a corporation is found such as Madison, Georgetown, guilty of' violations they arP first Duke and Princnton have given limn to "makn-up," failing agreed to implement public dis-which they can b11 removed closure within a year, Notre from the agreement Of for sonw Dame has not taken this simple strange mason the industry step. What good is "instant roprnscmtatives agree to response" monitoring (as rnmove them I -though thnrn referred to in the University's is no requirement that their 
.A. --::::::::: gate forming a partrwrship 
rnleased.
Aaron 
Now I'm not a legal (1Xp!)l't -and quitn possibly madc1 a mistake in rny analysis. So
K ¦ d 
read the FL!\ !'or yourst\ll' 



reI er 
and see if you find any cor­
porate loopholns (soc the 
Web sit,i listed below for a 
link). But I lmt I'm close. We've also dccidnd it'd bt> 

3/1/99 press release) if human good to hire a multi-national 
rights organizations cannot tell accounting firm, Prkc­
us about abuses since we don't Waterhouse Coopnr. to do a lit-
tea anyone where our factories tie indepnndnnt monitoring. If 
are? we want the strictest enforcn-Two weeks ago, Notre Dame mcnt p(;ssible, !hn tough moni­and 16 other schools joined thn toring that we need lo rmsurn Fair Labor Association (FLA). •that corporations don't hicln The J<L/\. is a monitoring sys-swnatshops from us (likn a tern, initially negotiated by a recent case of a Nikn facility in 
Vintnam where the shoddy

J work of tho accounting firm that found no abusns was exposed by an NCO that showed tlw sw,mtshop that the factory really was), then why not hire organi­zations that consist of nxpnrienc11d mmnbnrs who've dnvotnd tlrnir livPs to human rights and jus­ticn? 
Why not him pnopln who will go thn nxtra miln to onsurn that swnatshops disappnar? 
The administration should takn a prophotic stand in favor of living wages. Start implc\nWnling l'u[I disclosuni NOW. 

\)~ Include studtmt activists on tlrn taskforce, and invcsl.i­
with other universities (like 

Harvardl to dnsign a truly consortium of industry and e!Tnctive and truly indnpem!Pnt non-governmental organiza-monitoring systnm !'roe of' cor­tic.ins (NGOs), brought tognther poratn prnssurn run by tlw by the federal govnrnrnent. non-governnrnntal organiza-However, when the /\.FL-CIO lions whose goal is to promotn and UNITE saw what the others universal human rights. had agreed to behind their If you want to discuss what backs, they withdrew from the Notre Dame should he doing to agreement. The FLA is wnak. end sweatshops, then attend It's governing body would have the Teach-In from 4-7p.m. this six industry representatives Wednesday in l!rn Cushing (and six NCOs plus only onn Auditorium in Fitzpatrick. Wn university) which could easily will have a video, six spnak1irs block any change to the agree-and lots of discussion. ment or expulsion of a corpora-For more information s1w: Lion having sweatshops (sincc hllp:llwww.nd.ed11J-psalsweal. both actions require a two-html thirds vote). The FLA allows corporations to recommend a Aaron has 110 idea wherP tlw list of their factories that should anonymous Newsweek quote be investigatt1d for abuses. Fox camt1 from. hut would lik,· lo in the hen cage'! Tim FLA give a big shout-out lo newly allows for a complrt,i r:xclusion foundfriends (they call llwm­of up to 15 percent of a compa-selves reporters) at the NY ny's production from any moni-Times and US/\ TodaJJ j11sl in toring (if they are used in an case it was them. Thanks.for on/off basis}, along with any calling before we eoen put 0111 facilities in which its stake is our press releases. le.ss than 50 percent. The so-The views expressed in this called "independent monitors" column are those <f the author may in fact do up to the lesser and rw~ecessarily those of of 25 percent or $100,000 of ·The Observer. 

page 12---------------------------OTHE --------------Wednesday, March 31, 1999
BSERVER 



Paul Westerberg 

Suicane Gratification 
Capitol Records 
**** (out of five) 

Since the alternative movement in the early '90s, there have been very few straight-ahead rock albums released, and even fewer artists producing these albums. If a musician wasn't a rock musician before Pearl Jam and Nirvana, becoming one wasn't likely. New artists had to have something unique about them, something alternative. Paul Westerb<wg began his solo career right in the middle of the alternative movement. He was lumped into the category of alternative music, even though his music had always been simple, guitar-based rock. Actually, Westerberg was prob­ably more alternative in the '80s when he played in The Replar.ements. the Minneapolis-based punk-rock band. When The Heplacements broke up in 1991, after a decade of albums and tours, Westnrborg b(1gan working on solo material and contributed two songs for the mostly alternative ''Singles" sound­track. One of those songs is "Dyslexic Heart," probably Westerberg's most popular song. In 1993, he re!Pased his first full-length solo alhum, "14 Songs." The album reinforced Westerberg's reputation for craftily written, clever songs. "Suicaine Gratification" is Paul Westerberg's third album. It's definitelv another clever, solid rock album. He mixes quiet, reflective acoustic tunes with guitar-driven, straight-ahead rockers. Whether acoustic or electric, all of Westerberg's songs expand on the subtleties and quirks of rela­tionships and love. But what sets Westerberg apart from other artists that explore love is his always alternative views or thoughts about the subject. He finds a slightly different view that make his lyrics more interesting than in other love songs. 
Westerberg's guitar µlaying also sets him apart. His chord progressions am never spectacular, but always solid and always driving. Because of his background in punk and harder rock bands, his lead parts am always jagged and noticeablo. 
In the album's first single, "Looking Out Forever," Westerberg uses his formula of driving chords. loads and lyrics leading into his softer, catchier chorus, and makes this the best song on of "Suicarrn Gratification." Othor notable songs am "Whatever Makes You llappy" and "It's A Wonderful Lie." 
"Suicanc Gratification" is better than Westerberg's previous albums because it is a deeper and more reflective album. On tlrn album. he sounds more influenced by Minnesota logcnd Bob Dylan than Minnesota rocker Bob Mould. Wcsterborg proves that he is a singer/songwritnr in his prime. lie is no longer a young, na·ive talent, but he also isn't old and out-of-touch with listen­ers. 
Westflrberg is an artist that has made his own way to stardom in the music business by staying true to himselr and by consistently writing good songs. llis career proves that even though the music industry does have its fads, the best artists can still make their music. If they're good enough, they will be heard. And, if the consumer is open­minded enough to listen and ignorn what is thought to be cool, they will b() the ones to berncilit from truly talented musicians. 


Joe Larson 

The Freddy Jones Band has not released an album since their 1997 release, "Lucid." This year. the Chicago-based band put forth its fifth product through the Capricorn Record label titled "A Mile High Live." The album is almost exactly as the title would indicate -all live songs. though they are taken from a sampling of shows on the band's 1998 tour from Chicago to the Rocky Mountains. The album is the Freddy Jones Band's first entirely live album -its self-titled album featured a fow iive tracks -and it does its best to capture the most recent form of the band 's)ive sound. For a band that made its mark and recieved much notoriety for its live sound, the mood of this live album attempt seems unusually low-energy. Perhaps the Freddy Jones Band's years of exten­sive touring have worn on them. though it appears that their music has taken a turn for the lack­adaisical. "A Mile High Live" is dominated by tracks from previous albums. and displays the way that the songs have evolved. There is no doubt that the music being made on this album sounds great, it just sounds as though the tempo and intensity of the performance have been turned down. For those who have listened to much of Freddy Jones' previous music, this album may not elicit the same sort of jams they once did. What then does this album have to offer'' It still offers the lucid. catchy and pleasing lyrics and echoing guitar riffs that gave the Freddy Jones Band its fame. As the emergence of spring approaches, this album seems fitting as the type of disc one might listen to on a beautiful sunny day as he or she drives down the road in a convertible. Freddy Jones has always been and still is that type of band. It is good to know at least that much has been maintained in their sound. 

Overall, it seems all of the same elements of the old Freddy Jones Band are there, simply without the same level of intensity that could be found at their shows of three or four years ago. While most live albums are released as an attempt to capture some of the ·featured band's best songs; some of their most exciting moments on stage should come with strong improvisational displays. This album falls short of the mark on both of these things. 
All in all, "A Mile lligh Live" is a good live album, but knowing what the Freddy Jones Band can do leaves a seasoned fan yearning for more of the intensity of previous live performances. 

Dave Clark 
Photo courtesy of Capricorn Records 



Freddy Jones Band 
A Mile High Live 
Capricorn Records 
*** 1/2 (out of five) 
· , _ . .•,:·j/'-~iQ;-:::;~f ::i_;<.:;.: :.::· I 
"· . 

Lauryn Hill Ap,1111· ·ChicagOJheatre en:Folds Fivi May 3 Park West 
Elliott Smith · May 5 H~use of Blues Sparklehors Ma•· ..1<'~~ R· · N· ·h. Cl b 
.. ·...Y.;ssp.;• .• 1v1era .a,a ..... t.. u 
Sebadoh· ey:fR~J::···· •···•···1,osemontHorizon Better Tha1r Ezra May 1i: Riviera Night Club 








The Miseducation of Geoffrey Rahie 
---, 
Wilco The Rentals -
Summerteeth Seven More Minutes 
Warner Bros. Warner Bros. 
** (out of fiyc) *** 1/2 (out of five) 
For "Sunmwrll'(~lh," the boys from Wilro drnpped the alt-country Herc's something completely different and pretty good. The Hentals thing that was l!\l't ov1ir from l'rontman Jeff Tweedy's days with the have one of the most unique and original sounds out there. They have band Uncle Tupelo. lnstnad they use organ, piano and keyboards a strange but effective affinity for the Moog -think low-tech synthe­in soft. soothing meloclins tn crnatc a mellow pop sound. The sizer -and a happy pop sound that's really catchy. Front man and album nftm1 rnlies on tlrn lrnavily ptmsive lyrics that have charac­principle songwriter for The Rentals is former Weezcr bass player Malt tPriz11d Lim band in tho past. Fans or Wilen should add this one to Sharp, so The Rentals arc not just a bunch of unknowns. .The album tlwir nlllm:lion. but Um n•st should prohably pass. also features a number of guest stars such as Damon Albarn from Blur. 
The bottom line is that this is just a quality album. Where else can you 
hear a Moog these days? 

Rick Silvestrini 
Ah1 It's IHH'II nboul a ynar and a half sinc1i I lirst wrotn a music review for T!w Obs1\rVN's music Seen<' section. Them have been some good timc>s and IIH!n: hav,~ lrn1m som1! bad times. One of my shining moments was getting u. random n-mail from a girl saying my writing was comparnbln to a Holling 
S10111• r1•viPW (whir-11 might hn a vPry had thing). J\nothor bright spot occ111•rpcl whon I was vnhally aln1sPd by a guy who took ol'fonsc lo my 311 "Live" rnvinw. l'vn been srol<IPd hy my l'riPrHls for writing sarcastic rnviews on Pstablislrnd artists such as Illlolit· and thP lllow!isl1. I lmvn consist<111tly given out the lowest ratings of any Music S!'l'III! l'l'Vi!'Wl'I'. 
B111 thnH1gh all tlw bantPr, all t!w stupid cut.(•sy storins in my rnviews, some bands 
,.,,.,,..,....,.,.........,....,,,.,.,,.....,,.....m have ll'll a mark on my life. I now share with you my awards for Lhn "{;coif Hallin Fiscal Ynar" -tho period 1Jntw1wn April l <J98 and A1>ril 1999. 

Best Live Album: Ono of the biggest to come along was tlw l'Parl Jam "Live On Two l.(\gs" rnlease. llnwev1•r, I think that this was a mcdiocrn nffort. PJ's acoustic guitars sound likn crap live, and the song sulection was qunstion­able. My award goes to "l.ive Across a Wirn" by the Counting Crows. /\dam Duritz gets a liltlc annoying, bul tlw 1ww arrangomcnts un the acoustic disc art-l refresh­
ing. Best Hap Album: I do not list1•11 lo a lot ol'rnp musk. Most ol'tlw "gangsta rap" stuff is poi11tl1•ss. Bui I do lik<i "llnllo Nasty" by the Bcastie Boys. Tiu• B-Boys know how to have fun without guns. 
Besl Album by a One-llit Wonder: llave you heard "Maylw You'v!' IJn1111 Brainwashed Too" by the Nnw J!adicals'l ChatH'.()S are you havn heard ltw song "You Gd What You Civc•." lladio slalions ruined llrn song with 
oVPrplay, and tlH' Nnw Hadirals will vanish into oblivion. It's too had. 
Bigg1•st Wi111wr: Along with 20 billion other collP-ge kids. I'm a big !'an of the Dave '.'vlatthews Band, along with 20 billion otllf'r collng1• kids. Not only did they open up at number one with "Rnforn TlwsP CrowdPd Striiets." but Davn also look time to go on an acoustic tour and n-l1!asn a1101lwr live CD. "l.iVP at Luther Collnge!" The constant talk about DMB even annoys thn lwll out of mn. but you can't stop them, you can only hope to contain 


them. 
Most Overrated Album: H.E.M.'s "Up." A r.ouple good songs on this one, but there w1~re also a couple good songs on "New Adventures in Iii-Fi" and on "Monstnr... ThPy haven't had a good album since "Automatic For tho People." 
Best Band Live in Concert: Somn pnoph\ will ncwr gd it. Phish is the most important band of this d!\cado, and will be going strong into Urn llllW millenium. It's too bad some of you naysayPrs won't give lhcsc\ guys a chance ­you am missing out. 
Worst Album: Sadly this goes to "Give Yourself a Iland" by tho Crash Test Dummies. This just came out last week, but I can assure you that it is a huge pile of fecal matter. I really l.iko the Dummies. but they really screwed up with this one. Rapping by a stuffy Canadian singer Just doesn't 

cut it. 
My Favorite Album: I Jumped on this bandwagon over Christmas Break -
, "Tin Cans and Car Tires" by moo. -yos, it is spPl!ed "moe." with a period at tho end. Expert musicianship. funky lyrics and grnat songwriting skills all appear on this album. I recommend this album to anybody that loves great music. 

Geoffrey Rahie 
The views expressed in this quasi-review/quasi-column are those <l the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 



UPCOMING SHOWS IN INDIANAPOLIS 
Johnny Lang April 2 Murat Theatre Ben Folds Five May3 Park West Faith Hill April 14 Murat Theatre Ani Difranco May3 Murat Theatre Sponge April 19 Patio Lounge Rusted Root May6 Murat Theatre Better Than Ezra April 21 Fountain Sq. Theatre Soul Coughing May 11 Vogue Theatre Marilyn Manson April 22 Market Sq·. ,Arena Natalie Merchant May 19 Market Sq. Arena 
r 
page 14 The Observer• SPORTS Wednesday, March 31, 1999 
¦ NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE 
Carolina twice battles from behind to tie Philadelphia 
Associated Press just that when he scored 57 sec­Calgary moved one point Fleury hit the left post on a shot period. 
onds into the second period. The ahead of the Edmonton Oilers, 7-in the final minute of the second. The Coyotes scored on Llrnir PHIU\DELPHIA veteran dcfcnscman found the 4 losers to Phoenix. The Flames Colorado looked lackadaisical first three shots. 
Martin Gelinas scored at 11 :05 net from the left circle after tak­and Oilers face each other thrm1 early, falling behind 2-0 on Heichel scored the first two of the third period to help ing a cross-ice pass from timos in the season's final eight Calgary goals by Valeri Bure and goals of the ganrn. Thon Doan Carolina twice battle back from Brind'Amour. games. Jason Wiemer 2:03 apart mid­scored at 8:26 of the first, result­two-goal deficits and tie Sheppard brought Carolina Fleury, who spent 11 seasons way through the first period. ing in Oil,~rs goalic Tommy Salo Philadelphia 3-3 Tut>sday night. within 2-1 at 17:32 of the second in Calgary before being traded Wiemer later left the gamu with being pulled in favor of Bob 
Gelinas, streaking in from the period when he slipped in a Feb. 28, continued his torrid an injured left wrist. Essensa. blue line. took a pass from for­backhander after taking a pass scoring with Colorado. lie has Fleury got the Avalanche with­Heiclwl has six goals and thrnP mer Flyer Andrei Kovalenko and from behind the net from Ron eight goals and seven assists in in a goal as he skated down the assists in fiv1) games with Uw fired through a semen to spoil a Francis. seven games with the Avalanche. left side, took a pass from Coyotes since being ar.quirnd in a memorable night by PhiladPlphia Rrind'Amour's shot from the Fleury nnarly scored tho game­Peter Forsberg and flipped a March 20 tradP with llw NPW goaltender Hon llextall, who tied slot made it 3-l Philadelphia winner with 2:03 remaining in backhand shot over Wregget's York lslandPrs. a club record with two assists. with 31 seconds left in tho peri­overtime as he skated down the right shoulder with 36 seconds 
Ray Sheppard and Marek od. Carolina's Malik made it 3-2 right side, split two defenders left in the period. SENATOHS 6. PENGUINS 4 t\lalik also scored for the when his slap shot from the left and slapped a shot from a bad Southeast Division-leading circle caught Hextall out of posi­angle. but Ken WreggPt made a COYOTES 7. OILEHS 4 Sarni Salo scored thnio goals Hurricanes. who have won only tion at 3:00 of the third period. smothering save. for his first career hat trirk as one of their last six (1-3-2). The Hurricanes, who have the Wregget finished with 21 saves Robert Reichel had two goals the Ottawa Senators ovnrcame a 
Philadelphia is 3-1-1 in its last NHL's pour.1st power play, con­and Patrick Roy stopped 31 shots and an assist and Keith Tkaclntk three-goal deficit and won their five games. verted one of four attempts with for the Avalanche, who extended notched· four assists as the first game in Pittsburgh with a (1­
Hod Brind'Amour had a goal the man advantage. their home unbeaten streak .to Phoenix Coyotes equalled a fran­4 decision Tuesday night. and an assist and Mikael The Flyers were without cap­six games (5-0-1). chise record with six first-period The Senators had been 0-1 :1-:1 Henberg and Steve Duchesne tain Eric Lindros, who was serv­Roy made a glove save on a goals in a 7-4 win over the at thn Civic Arena since joining also had goals for the Flyers, ing the second of a two-game shot by Andrew Cassels with Edmonton Oilers on Tuesday the NIii, i11 1992. Tlrny arn who did all their scorin9; on the suspension for high-slicking Petr three seconds left in overtime. night. unbeaten in their last live road power play. Nedved of the New York Kangers and Aaron Miller tackled The Oilers missed a charm, to ganrns (4-0-1 ). 
Renbt>rg put the flyers a.head last Saturday. Calgary's Reno Corbet in the move ahead of the Calgary The Ponguins lost 'a substantial at 2:24 of the first period when Carolina left wing Paul crnase tu prevent any rnbound Flames for the eighth and final lead for the second consocutivP he ripped a slap shot from just Hanlrnim appeared in his 700th chance. · playoff spot in the Wostern game. Tlrny lod :~-1 al Buffalo I I inside the blue line past Carolina career NHL game. Jarome Iginla nearly scored off Conference. Tho Flames tied the minutes into the third pnriod on goaltender Trevor Kidd, who Philadelphia finished the sea­the ensuing faceoff, but Roy Colorado Avalanche 3-3 Tues<lay Sunday and lost 4-3 in ovortim,1. failt>d for the seventh straight son unbeaten against Carolina kicked the shot away as the horn night. giving them 68 points. one Magnus Arvedson scornd twic,i start (0-4-3) to win his 100th (2-0-2). sounded. ahead of Edmonton. Both teams for Ottawa. both on brnakaways. NHL game. Trailing 2-1 entering the sec­have eight games remaining in The first goal, his third short­
Hextall picked up an assist on AVALANCHE3,FLA..\1ES3 ond period, the Avalanche tied the regular season. handed score of the season, the play and added the other on the game on Sandis Ozolinsh's The line of Tkachuk, Shane broke a 3-3 tie at 18:08 of' tlrn Brind'Amour's goal to tie the Theo Fleury, facing Calgary for power-play goal at 8:31 and Doan and Jeremy Roenick com­second period and capped a Philadelphia record set by Mark the first time since being traded went ahead on Shjon Podein's bined for eight points in the first stretch offour goals in 12: 14 Laforest on Dec.4.1988 against to Colorado; had a goal and an breakaway 3:40 later. period and 10 points overall. Arvedson got control of' tlw NP-w Jersev. assist against his. former team as It was Podein's first goal since Doan finished with a goal and puck and powenid his way past 
The NHL record for assists by the Avalanche and Flames Nov. 11, when he was still with two assists while Roenick had Martin Straka. Goalie Peter a goaltender in one game is played to a 3-3 tie Tuesday the Philadelphia Flyers. one goal and two assists. Oleg Skudra committed too early and three, set by Calgary's Jeff Reese night. Calgary countered at 15:23 Tverdovsky, Rick Tocchet and Arvedson lif'ted the shot ov11r against San Jose on Feb. 10, Derek :'\tlorris had the game­when Derek Morris slapped in a Keith Carney also scored for the him. Ile scored again at 14:10, 1993. tying goal for the Flames, who rebound on a power play. The Coyotes. his 20th. That provided a two­
Duchesne, who was obtained ended a two-game losing streak Flames, who missed several Mike Grier had two goals and goal lead for Ottawa that was from the Los Angeles Kings on and gained a valuable point in chances on flurries in front of the Ryan Smyth and Doug Weight needed when Brad Werenka March 23 to add some punch to their bid for the eighth playoff net, were fortunate to still be tied also scored fur the Oilers, who score<l for Pittsburgh just 34 sec­Philadelphia's power play. did spot in the Western Conference. heading to the third period as trailed 5-0 after 15:46 of the first onds later. 
Wal-Mart heirs to buy Nuggets and Avalanche 
Associated Pre5s sources. has been rumored for about a year. majority interei;t in Beacon 
The group seeking the teams is Last week, KMGH-TV said Ascent Communications. a movie productionDENVER headed by Bill Laurie, a former bas­executives were. discussing a possible unit, in January. It also owns a 57 
A tentative deal has been reached ketball player for Memphis State; He sale with Wal~Mart officials. Lyons percent stake in On Command, a hotel to sell the Denver Nuggets, the and his wife.-Na11¢y Walton, OYvil called that Jeport inaccurate. and video-oncdemand service. Colorado Avalanche and the Pepsi Crown Center F~tms in Columbia/ Wal-Mart execq denied cornorate The company reported a net loss of' Center to a group headed by aman ·Mo., which raises qt.tarter horses· and involvement in' talks. $45.8 million, or $1.54 a share, in whose wife i,s heir to the Wal-Mart Appaloosas. · "Itwouldn't surprise me and the 1998, compared with a net loss of Corp. ·fortune, a newspaper reported Walton's late father, James L other large shareholders that some­$43.4 million,, or $1.47 a share in Tuesday. "Bud" Walton, and his brother, Sam, thing would happen as soon as tech­1997. 
The teams and the $170 million co-founded the Wal-Mart chain. nically possible," said Jeff Berg, pres­Ascent's foray into professional arena. which is under construction; Charlie Lyons, Ascent's chief execu­ident of Matador Capital Management sports began in the early 1990s when, are owned by a subsidiary of Ascent tive officer,. dedined comment Corp.• which.• owns 6 percent of as COMSAT Video Enterprises, it Entertainment Group and worth at through_ a spokesman on Ttresday-, spent $17 million for a majority inter­
·Ascent.. . ·•· <.i
least $400 million,· the Denver Post Laurie.also.declined comment. The Denvertbii:sed Ascent, spun off est in the Nuggets. In 1995. it paid said, quoting unidentified NBA ·· The possible sale of the two teams .by Comsat Corp, in mid-1997. sold its $65 million for the Avalanche. 
2 Bdrm Apt at College Park to sub­In DIRE need of graduation tickets SUMMER CAMP JOBS lease tor summer session. Call 4-PLEASE call John @271-8531 English Classes at the South Bend 
lLOST & FOUNDI FOR RENT 
LAND/WATER SPORTS 3620. English Institute. English taught as 
ADfRONDACK MOUNTAINS/ a Second Language. Located two Lost: 100 CDs that were in a black LAKE PLACID BED 'N BREAKFAST 5/6 BDRM HOMES. NEAR CAM­PERSONAL blocks west of IUSB. CaseLogic carrying case. Lost in VISIT US www.raquettelake.com REGISTRY PUS. FURN. 272-6551 • 9 LEVELs intensive training LaFortune the night of 2/26/99. 1·800· 786-8373 219-291-7153 Fax it fast at THE COPY SHOP in • NEW SESSION every 4 wks. Monetary reward being of!ered 1f LaFortune. FAX Sending and ·PRIVATE TUTORING avail. found. No questions asked. House For Rent SUMMER SUBLEASE Receiving: 631-FAX1 Phone 219-287-3622. 
Please call Brian at 4-1126 wl any 4-5 Bedroom Upper COLLEGE PARK info. SUMMER EMPLOYMENT· Close to Campus 2 Bdrm, A/C, wash/dryer When you need copies . Beth,.. ART EDUCATION Includes: Dishwasher, also We're OPEN!!! Two days till relaxationEE ASSISTANT Washer/Dryer, Fridge, Stove, FURNITURE in great cond. 
WANTED 

SNITE ART MUSEUM.Get Remodeling Kitchen mspring. couches, tables, beds THE COPY SHOP Forming Recording Arts Club teaching experience while RENT REDUCED! Call 273-2917 LaFortune Student Center Info Mtg making a difference in South Call 289-4712 631-COPY Tonight 6pm 115 Crowley 
SEASONAL SALES PERSON BendlAssist Education 

FOR SALE
NEEDED Curator with summer youth Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight Volk, 
IN LOCAL GOLF PRO SHOP. art program focusing on Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm Where are you? I miss you up CALL 282-3727 AND ASK FOR museum objects and art 2 blks. from campus. 4-5 bdrm NEW Rates Phone Cards Sat: Noon-6:00pm there. DICK WALKER. making.June 1-July 30, 15-20 home. fireplace. 10' ceilings 282 min. $20 call 258-4805 Sun: Noon-Midnight 
hours per week. Fine Arts &educa­$650/mo. available now. Cocks.. we've got all sorts of tion majors with exp Cail Jason @289-4365 GUITAR-Fender Electric/Acoustic, COUNTDOWN TO THE secrets to divulge. hehehe Hotel Help Wanted teaching &/or working with cut-away body, 1 yr old. $350 or •• LEWIS CRUSH " krup children preferred.INCLUDES STAYING IN SOUTH BEND FOR 8/0. Includes case and stand. 10 DAYS Holiday Inn/Univ. Area needs full & ROOM & BOARD June 20 THE SUMMER??? Call Greg at 271-0138 will YOU be invited? Classifieds are the best things 
part time help for Rest. & Bar July 30. Lovely five-bedroom, single family going if you have something to say. Server,Bartender,N1ght Auditor,PM (6120-7/30,additional Work house available for sub-lease. NEED 2 graduation tix Van Driver.Desk Clerk.Banquet Study hours-if eligible-with About a mile from campus. 
Call John @271-8531 The Observer wishes coach Capt. & National Youth Sports Safe neighborhood. Clean. Two TICKETS 
Doherty the best of luck. Please, Servers.Outstanding Program,for total 40 hrs/wk if window air-conditioners. 
McGirls, take us somewhere next year benefits.including room discounts desired)CALL ASAP for Washer and dryer, stove, refrige. I need graduation tickllts! If the classified doesn't apply to Anywhere. Apply at 515 D1xieway North. application form 631-4435 Call 634-0562 for info. Call Kelly @243-8932 you, then don't whine about it! 
App. deadline April 6. 
ZahmBoys 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid.
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Wcdm:sd:ly, M.m:h .31, 1999 The Observer •PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
page 15 

Bringing It All Together for 1999-2000 
Dear Student Body: 

On behalf of the undergraduate student body, we would like to extend our deepest appreciation for the service of Peter Cesaro, Andrea Selak, and Oeanette Weiss to the Notre Dame community. Their dedication as Student Body President, Student Body Vice President, and Chief of Staff, respectively, has established a new barometer for future administrations to measure themselves against. 
Students' interests were placed first in their administration as they expanded SafeRide to Thursday nights, coordinated Academic Pride Luncheons with faculty members, set up an Executive Cabinet contingency fund for co-sponsorship projects, and in their Fall 1998 Board of Trustees' Report pushed for augmentation of services offered in the First Year of Studies-writing center and tutoring. 
Tomorrow marks the commencement of the Murphy/Palumbo administration. Throughout these past six weeks of transition, we have gained a tremendous amount of knowledge from our predecessors, infonnation that we will utilize to implement our vision for the student body. We begin our term with experience, energy, vision, and commitment. These tools will aid us in the days and months ahead as we begin our service to the best student body in the nation. 
For the coming year, our focus will be on improving the online bookstore and placing the Rider-Driver program on the Student 
.-iGovemment webpage. We will attempt to establish mentoring programs. We will work diligently to extend flex points to vending machines, washers and dryers, as well as all the restaurants and foodservice outlets on campus. We will continue successful programs such as Irish Elves, Reuse-a-Shoe Drive, and Project Warmth. 
These are just some of the many ideas that we will be working on in the next year. Yet, we can only bring it all together, with your participation. Please, if you ever have an idea or concern that you feel should be addressed, do not hesitate to stop by 203 Lafortune or give us a call at 631-7668. 
Micah 0. Murphy Michael J. Palumbo Student Body President Student Body Vice President 
1999-2000 Office of the President Team Positions 
Chief of Staff: Matthew Mamak. Student Union Secretary: Luciana Reali Controller: Chris Conway Academic Delegate: Andrea Selak. Assistant Chief of Staff: Hunt Hanover and Laura Januzik 
Department of Administrative Relations Executive Coordinator: Dan Peate Board of Trustees Report Chair: Brian Smith and John Osburn Dulac Revisions Chair: Tony Diebold Administrative Relations Committee: Joe Shepherd, Stephen Baranowski, Stasia Longon, Monica Hlavac, Maggie Wood, and Tim Jarotkiewicz 
Department of Gender Relations Executive Coordinators: Kathryn Koch and Tim Hagerty Gender Relations Committee: Anna Benjamin and Amanda Dovidio 
Department of Multicultural Relations Executive Coordinator: Michael Fierro Multicultural Relations Committee: Stephany Foster 
Department of Public Relations Executive Coordinator: Jay M. Smith External Relations Chair: Rhea Gertken Saint Mary's College Relations Chair: Julie Schade Archives: Amanda Dovido 
Department of Student Services Executive Coordinator: Kathleen McCann Athletics Chair: Patrick O'Shaughnessy Computing Chair: Dominic Angiollo Social Concerns Chair: Christine Hughes Student Concerns Chair: Megan Welsh Student Services Committee: Andrew Mclellan, Chris Jackson, and Ryan Olander 
Student Union Calendar Keeper: Nora Jones 
Bringing It All Together for 1999-2000 
-
.... 
r 
page 16 The Observer• SPORTS Wednesday, March 3I, I 999 
¦ MEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL 


Huskies complete Final Four run with return to UConn 



CBS tourney ratings fall despite Duke-UConn final 
-
Assoi:iareJ l'ress 
STORRS, Conn. Oh, what a ride for Jim Calhoun and tlw lluskiPs. 
A bus carrying Calhoun and his national champions traveled the 35 miles from the airport to campus Tuesday, but It took them through the hPart and hearts of Conncrticut. 
Motorists pulled off along the high­wav. Families. jumping and waving. ran· f'rom llrnir homPs. 
"The journey back home was incred­ible." said Calhoun. 
And once inside Gampcl Pavilion, the learn was embraced by a standing­room-only crowd of more than 10,000 !'ans. 
Calhoun reflected on the journey he began 13 years ago to build the No. 1 team. A big bump in the road was the 1990 heartbreaking loss lo Duke. A buzzer-beater by Christian Laettner kPpt the Huskies from the Final Four. 
"We rE>turned to Storrs to mend our broken heart," said Calhoun. "Yesterdav. we kicked some but.t and broke some hearts." 
Connecticut upset Duke 77-74 in the championship game Monday night in St. Petiwshurg, Fla., surprising many who felt the Blue Devils were all but unb1eatable. 
The victory was the first for the men's team in school history and the first for a New England team since lluly Cross won the tournament in 1947. The UConn women brought home the national title in 1995 with a 35-0 season. 
The team and coaches sat on a raised platform in front of the student section, the same section Calhoun has saluted each time he has walked off after a game. 
"We couldn't wait to come back home to you and bring back the national championship back," Calhoun told the crowd. 
Fans rocked. rapped and waved signs throughout the rally. At one point, thousands began chanting, "?ne more year!" -directed at scoring 


THE LANGUAGE OF BRAZIL, LATIN AMERICA'S 
LARGEST AND MOST POPULOUS COUNTRY, A LAND OF RICH LITERATURE, FASCINATING MUSIC, NATURAL BEAUTY AND INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES 
Learn fast: In~e'1.Si\·e course Fultill the language requirement in 2 semesters 
Contact: Department of Romance Languages 

leader Richard Hamiltou, the Final Four MVP. 
Hamilton f1irtcd with leaving before his junior year for the NBA. Speculation on whether he or sopho­more guard Khalid El-Amin will return for another vear has height­ened during the Huskies' successful run. 
Calhoun said neither one has approached him yet on the subject. 
"It's not my job to convince them to stay. It never has and never will," he said. "These are young people going throi_~gh the process. It is their deci­sion. 
But Tuesday was not about saying goodbye to anyone. It was Thanksgiving in Conneclicut and rec­ognizing the top team in the land. 
"You stood by us. You believed," senior point guard Ricky Moore said. "We didn't !el vou down." 
Earlier, al ·Bradley Internaiional Airport, about 2.000 fans cheered and screamed as the players mingled in the crowd. Leigh Anne Crocco of West llaven jumped frantically up and down as her hero, Jake Voskuhl, gave her a high-five. 
Tho 11-year-old was breathless for a moment before announcing, "Jake touched my hand!" 
Hundreds of fans smged forward seeking hugs and autographs. "Yes! Yes!" shouted Ralph Rousa of Waterbury, who managed to get Hamilton's autograph for his 6-year­old son, Nicholas, and El-Amin's auto­graph for his 3-year-old son, Michael. 
At the dose of the pep rally, the team walked off the podium and shook hands with some of the fans and pro­ceeded in a slow victory lap around the 11oor. 
"When it was all said and done, Duke had a magnificent season -up to a point," said Calhoun. "The great thing about our sport is you settle things on the court. This was supposed to be the year of the Blue Devils." 
According to one of the scores of signs and banners held up in Gampel, "1999 was the Year of the Dog." 

NEW YORK 
Even a thrilling national champi• onship game could not prevent TV ratings from falling to an all-time low for CBS. 
Connecticut's 1,1:i)Set of Duke on Monday night ph~t~da .17.•2 national rating and. a 27,~har~, the Iowest 
. sin_ce CBS began trilevislng the event in1982. 
The 1999 tournament as a whole had a 6.8/15 share; down 7 percent from last year's 7.;-s/17. The previ• ous mark of futJHty was a 7 .2 in 1997, the year Arizona defeated Kentucky in.thetide.game. 
This ye<1.r'.s qlj,a,irl,plons.hip game 
•.was do\-V~ S p.e •. ·•• Q:'1} Jast se.a• . 
·soti's K(lnttiC°k · l'i firial; whir,h had a 17.8 ;rat1ll$\&nd 28 share. It was the lowest•ra.ted NCAA champi­onship game since the 1972 UCLA­Florid a State final, which was played in the afternoon. 
"The games weren't as close as they had been lastyear,H said CBS spokeswom.1111:. · .... ie. Ann Wade, 
··."You're.. always< ... _g 'tH~appoint1;1d 
··even when· H's .. hJgh number because you'd 1ike;to sec it higher. This is one of .o.u.r favorite events and this doesn't do anything to alter our affection for it." Only 14 of the 63 games were decided by five p.ints or under, just one went into ov~rtime and 1 7 werf:l blowo.uts. of WpoJ;tlts or_·moxe. Last year's tournam; .. act 20 games with.in five poi Jive in overtime and 11 deie.rminfld by 20 points or more. "When you h~ve close games through the wholeJournament, peo­ple startto cat1:;Jr on, make an investment · ,-and ..·,.:,-<·-· end up with";.. < us on 
.. ',, ,·_, -· • 
Monday ni.ght," addtld Wado. "l think that hurt us a little bit." 
Ratings for most of the West Coast cities fell because there were no representativns from the region, unlike last year when both Stanford and Utah made the Final Four. The championship game dropped 28 percent. in Los Angeles and 13 per­(\tintin San Francisco. 
For the women's championship game between Purdue and Duke. ESPN set a record with the biggest rating in the network's four-yoar history of broadcasting the event. 
It broke the 4.0 mark set in 1997 between Tennessee and Old DOI):linion. 
The game posted a 4.3 cable rat­id!'l'.Jn ESPN's universe of 75.8 mil­lion homes, an increase of 16 per­cent from last year's Tennessee­Louisiana Tech title game that had a 3.7. 
Overall tournament ratings were also up this year for the women. Games on ESPN rose 24 percent and ESPN2 had a 8 percent increase, c:ohlpared with last season. 
'.'Women's basketball is expanding ~n depth and gaining viewers on a seasonal basis," said Len Deluca, ESPN vice president of program­ming development. "Are we sur­prised even without Tennessee and UConn that we continue to grow? No, because we are college basket­ball's best platform for promotion and growth, whether it be women's or men's." 
The rating is the percentage of TV households in the nation tuned to a program, and each network point represents 994,000 homes. The share is the percentage tuned to a program among those televisions on at,th.e time. 


Join the action. Write for sports. Call 1-4543. 

w

w 
Wednesday, March 3 l, l 999 The Observer• SPORTS page 17 

Recruits 
continued from page 24 
hn said. "I think you havn to go af'tnr players that fit your proti111, and thal's the thing that 11xcitns nm about Notre Dame. Thtl Note D:rnw proliln is diffnrnnt than a lot of other placPs. You am going to go into the homes of sonw rnally great kids. It's my philosophy that if you )tnt one groat player each year, you am going lo havn a groat team." 
FormPr rrish coach John MacLr1od rPcPivnd r.ommitmnnts from Mike Monsnrnz and Malt Carroll. hut Dolrnrty has yet to sJH'ak wilh tlwm. In an intervi1iw yosterday,. Carroll said lw was not sun\ if ho was still going to attt•ml :"lloln' llanw. 
1l111 ltw rlnvnr l>oht•rty has IHwn abln to r1'arh 0111 to pnll'ntial rnrruits and tlwir fa111­ilins -so1111qi11ws in t!Xtraordirrnrily unco11­\'l\1Jlional ways. 
Arrnrding to nvPntual Kansas signon T.J. Pugh, l>ohPrly sPnl him a singlt• match and a notti which rt•,td, "Wt! think you and KU are 
¦ MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
a perfect match." 
Doherty also sent Pugh an air sickness bag inscribed, "We'll be sick if you don't pick Kansas." 
Pugh's mother Jan said, "I absolutely fell in love with Matt Doherty. He sent the funni­est recruiting letters. I thought that was so ingenious." 
Kansas standout Haef LaFrentz told USA Today, "Matt Doherty really has got a good sense of humor. lie drew this flip-through eartnon called Jayhawk Slammer, special for me. It's a player jumping over a bunch of people and jamming the ball. It was crazy." 
Doherty is now ready to ink his first recruiting class as the head coach of Urn Pighting Irish. 
"I am excited about walking in to a gym with Notre Dame on my chest," Doherty said. "I am nxcitml about walking into somc­orrn 's home saying, 'My name is Matt Doughty, lwad coach, University of Notre Dame.' That gives me goose bumps. With that I will work as hard as I have ever worknd to bring a winning basketball pro­gram to Notre Dame." 

Players rate best and worst umpires of major leagues 
NEWYOHK 

Tim McClelland and Jerry Crawford are baseball's top umpiros, and Kon Kaisor and Charlie Williams arc the worst, according to 1t survey by the players' association. 
Players ratf•d umpires on physical condi­tion. physical nncl mental toughness, accu­racy of calls on the basns, accuracy of calls at tlw plate. consistency, temperament, rospcr.t for playors and overall capacity. 
McClelland topped the AL ratings, fol­lowed by Jim Joyce, Hichie Garcia, John lllrschbeck, Mike Heilly and Drow Cobh~. Kaiser was 32nd and last, with Durwood Merrill 31st. Ted Hendry 30th. Joe Brinkman 29th, Dalfl Ford 28th and Drew Coblu 27th. 
Cruwford, head of thf' umpires' union. was I.ops in thti NL, followed by Ed Rapuano, Ed Montague, Randy March, Frank Pu·lli and Jeff' Kellogg. Charlie Williams was 36th and last, with Eric Gregg 35th. Joe West 34th, Bruce Froemming 33rd and Harry Wendelstedt 32nd. 
West and Froemming are among the most conl'rontutional umpires. West was last in tho NL in both tho respect for play­ers and temperament categories and Froemming was next to last in both. 
"I give no credence whatsoever to those ratings," umpires' union. head Hichie Phillips said. "I think they're patently absurd. I've even beon told that some play­ers had their kids fill them out'.' 
13ascball officials said they thought play· ers penalized confrontational umpires in their ranking. 
~The survey was a players' association initiative, and the players are certainly entitlod to their opinion," NL l,)resident Len Coleman said. "I will point out that umpire popularity was n factor. and thq skills and qualities of many fino umpires were distort­od." 
Commissioner Bud Selig declined com­ment. 

helping plan senior w~el{? Pick up an application outside room 216 LaFortune Return by April 9th 
Brought to you by the Class of2000 Council 


Baseball 
continued from page 24 
innings, while John Corbin record­ed the victory for the Irish by get­ting the linal five outs. 
"Mike Naumann didn't have his bust outing but ho hung in there in his three innings, then Mike Carlin came ln and did a great job," Mainieri said. "After five innings, we were right whore we needed to be to have a chance to win the game. We were fortunate tn rally and win the game." 
/\II-American shortstop Brant Ust again showed why )m's 0110 of' the nation's most feared hitters with his 13th home run or the s1iason which holplld kick-start tho Irish rally. Ust's home run in the bottom ol' the eighth moved him clostir lo tho career and single season rocord f'or home runs; Im 1rnnds one more home run to tie injurnd senior Jllff Wagner's career bost of 43 homers. 
After the Irish rnlired the Panthers in the top of the ninth, Pnrconte 1ml off thf~ Irish hall' of' the inning with a opposite field single to left lield. 
Center11older Steve Stanlny limn hit a grounder to Tylke at s1~cond, who botched the play, wh-ich advance Perconte. Catcher Paul O'Toole plated Percontn to tie the game at 6-6 with one out in the bottom of the ninth. 
Following O'Toole's Hl31 single, the Panthers switched pitchers to no avail. The next battnr, Porzel, singled off of freshman righthander Matt Friesleben. Ust then walked for the 17th time this season on four pitches to load tho bases with still only one out. 
Matt Nussbaum played the hero for tho Irish with a ground ball to Sadowski, which was misplayed and scored O'Toolo for the improb­able victory. 
Wisconsin-Milwaukee came into the game with a 6-13 rncord on tlrn season, but Mainieri was aware that their record proved no indica­tion of their talent levol. All 20 of their games have been o,r the road, and they had been playing well as of late with four straight victories. 
"I expected a tough ball game. Wisconsin-Milwaukee, despite hav­ing a losing record, have played very good teams. Tlrny had not played this previous wer.kend, so they were pitching Uwir number one starter against us. I was con­cerned about tho beginning portion of the game." Mainieri said. 
Mainieri said he thinks his team is on truck for a possible post sea­son bid and believes the mix of v1it­erans and newcomers has bti11n a major factor in his tnam 's perfor­mance. 
"Wlwn you look at our tnam, we have some rnally outstunding VPt­nran leadership in peopl1• like Brant Ust, Alec Por:1.1•l, .li\lT 1-'Plkl'r, Ben Cooke and Jeff Pnrconte. Tlwn w1i'v11 got some very maturn f'rnsh­man in Stev11 Stanloy and l'aul O'Tool1\ and also Andrew Buslwy when lwall!1y," the fiflli-yrmr lwad coach said. "It's a real good mix of' vctnran loarlership with tho young playPrs. I think wn'w got kids that httvc ttn awful lot of pridn in tJwm­snlves and their t1ia111." 
The Irish bngin a homnstand this wrwkend against Big l!ast rivals I' rovi cl encc and Con r1<•c lieut. Tlrny'll rnntinut1 by playing 2:{ ol' their next 25 ganrns at Eck !inlet. 
The team is currently firsl in the Big East and plans 011 widoning its margin in the two doublPlrnaders on Thursday and Saturday. 
Mainieri plans to send his top f'our starters 11> tho mound this weekend, with /\aron Ileilman and Tim Kalita going against l'rovidnnce and Scott Cavey and Alex Shilliday pitching against the lluski1\s. 
''I'm glad th at tho nnx t f'ou r weekends in the Big East confer­ence arc played in our home ball­park. We !'eel very comfortable playing and arc very confident in ourselves," Maininri said. 
"We just want to go out tl11\rr. on Thursday. take it onn game at a time and play us hard as we can," he said. "It's a good opportunity for us to put somo spacn betwoen us and the other !11ams in the confor­unce." 

STUDENT WANTED 
Work approx. 10 hrs. a week 
Must have knowledge of Macs & related Mac programs 

Prefer Sophomores 

Please apply in person by 16 April 1999 
in the Reilly Center, 346 O'Shag 
CASTING & ANGLING 
CLINIC Three Sessions 6:00-7: 15 PM Open to ND Students & Employees $8.00 Class Fee 
CLASS DATES 
APRIL 6 APRIL 13 APRIL 20 


Classes Held in the Joyce Center & Campus Lakes Equipment Provided but Bring Own if Possible Register in Advance at RecSports 
-
..... 
-.._..,..,.. ­
18 The Observer• SPORTS Wednesday, March 31, 1999
_rP::ag~e=·=======================;:::::=====:;:;;:::;::;:;::;::=7-____::..::.::..._.:::_=-=-=.:....:....::;:....__....::::....:c___:_-=--:.___:_______________

-
D h t 
¦ MEN'S BASKETBALL 






Doherty nantes Wojcik as assistant 
Special lo The Observer 
Doug Wojcik, assistant. basketball coach a.t the Naval Academy for the la.st nine years. has joined Matt Doherty's Notre Dame bas­ketball coaching staff as an assistant coach. 
A formt'r basketball play­er and captain at Navy, Wojcik coordinated recruit• ing for Navy and for head coach Don DeVoe. 
He also worked with thfl ~lids' perimeter and post players, including Hassan Booker. a two-lime all-con­ference selection who won the '98 Chip Hilton Awa.rd pres1rnted by the Basketball Hall of Fame to a player who demonstrates personal character both on and off the court. 
A 1987 graduate of the Naval Academy. Wojcik served as captain for the !'vfiddies as a senior in 1986­
87. He helped Navy partic­ipate in the NCAA tourna­ment for three straight years. including a 1986 East Regional final appearance against eventual Final Four runner-up Duke. He then served as an assistant coach on Navy teams that played in the NCAA tournament in 1994, 1997 and 1998. He has played a partin every conference title won by Navy and in six of th~ 11 NCAA bids received in Academy history. 

Tho Whoeling, W.Va., native.· still. hold8 NavyrecordsJor most assis\~.in a< 
game (14), season (251) and career f714), setting the single-,season,Jn ark as a 
junior. He started 'every game at point guard for three seasons. helping .Navy to a 26-6 rncotd as a sopho~ more followed by marks of 30-5 and 26-6 his final· two soasons. 
Teammate Day id Robinson turned over his 1986 Coloni.i:l Atpletic Association MVP award to Wojcik, citing his unselfish play a,,nd, leadership qmi.li~ ties. 
After graduating from Navy, Wojcik served as a. temporary duty ensign in the basketball office before attending Surface Warfare Officer Sthool ln Newp6rt, 
R.I. He was assigned t9 the USS W.B. Sims out of JacksonVJllti, Phi;, wMre he'' served as first lieJJtilirn:nt and boilers officer for two years. 
His brother David is an assistant basketball coach at Loyola CoUeg~ under his high school assistant coach Dino Gaudio. Doug's high school head coach was cur• rent Xavier head coachSkip Prosser. 
Wojcik. is married Jq the former .Lael Honse, a 1990 Naval Academy graduate who earned letters in bas­ketball and tratrt.\ 
0 er y 
continued from page 24 

ing his stay and compiled an overall 202-42 L8281 record. 
As a player at the University of North Carolina, 

Photo courtesy of Kansas Sports Info Serving under head coach Roy Williams (left) at Kansas, Matt Doherty has developed into one of the most promising college coaches, according to Basketball News. 
Doherty played alongside Michael Jordan and James Worthv on the 1982 National Championship te:im. Ile helped Carolina to a 14­0 Atlantic Coast Conference record, making it the sixth team in lhe ACC to do so. while becoming only the second player in ACC history to accumu­late 1,000 points, 400 rnbounds and 400 assists in a career. 
Doherty later sorvod as an assistant at Davirlson College for thrrw years hcl'orn moving on to Kansas. 
The September 1998 issuo of Basketball News ratod Doherty as tlrn college bask<~tball assistant coach with thl1 brightest future. 
Wrote Dick Vitafo in USA Today, "IIPy, wlwn you talk about tho second lieutenants who arc ready lo makti llrn jump to beconrn head coa('hns, I hope atbleii<: dirl'ctors in sParrh of 1ww lcmrlPrs take a deep look at i\1att Dolrnrty. a workaholic: assistant at Kansas. 
"Thl'rn arc> many assistants waiting for llw phon,P call from il gutsy AD. lJ. la Bob Frederick at Kansas. I le had the guts and f'ortituch~ to hire' an unknown assistant by the namP of Hoy Williams. (!V<rn thought Im had a stack of rnsumns f'rom proven !wad coaclws. But FrPdPrid did his research. and today, as Uwy say, lhe rc~.st is histo­rv," Vitale wrote. 
· Notrn Damn mad<' a fiw-ynar commitnwnt to Doherty in hopes that he will 111ak(1 history under the Dome and bn ablP to turnaround an Irish program that enjoyed just threP winning sr.asons undPr .John MacLnod's eight-yHar U~nurc'. 
"I am extrnnwly happy and excitod for Malt Doherty and his family to ham this opportunity al Notre Dame," said Kansas head coach Hoy Williams. "H(' will do an outstanding job tlwrn. Malt was a grnal reprcsmll.ativn of our basketball program and our univnrsity as a whole. lie will do a magnificent job at Notre Dame, and this day will bn rnmcmbercd as a special ono for Notrn Dame basketball." 
Doherty wouldn't giv1~ a timetable for success but has expressed his dPdication to winning. 
"We will play hard, wn will play tognthcr and we will be unself'ish. That is really all I rnn promise you," said Dolrnrty. "Wn will put a trnm on the court that, in mv estimation, will have tlw best chance of winnin·g a baskPtball game and have a winning season. 
'Tm not going to make any guarantnns. but I want to be in position to be one of' those 10 to 20 teams that if things go right. you can win a National Championship," Doherty continued. "I think that's what l\otrc Dame should have." 



-
. 
Don't like sweatshops? 


. 
Don't know about sweatshops? 

. 
Want to know how N.D. supports sweatshops? 

. 
Want to know how N.D. is trying to stop·sweatshop labor? 

. 
Want to know why the stuff in the bookstore is so expensive? 

. 
Want free pizza? 



If you answered YES to any of these questions, learn more: 






TODAY 


4-Jpm 
CUSHING AUDITORIUM 
Featured Contributors Will Include: 
Fr. Patrick Sullivan, Sociology -Patricia Davis, Government 
-Dan Lane, Community Organizer -Fr. Oliver Williams, Center for Businet;s Ethics --Bill Hoye. University Counsel and Spokesman on Licensing and Sweatshop lssues 
Sponsored by: Amnesty International, ND College Democrats. Progressive Studcm Alliance 
E 

C H 
I 



Wednesd;ty, March 31, 1999 The Observer· SPORTS page 19 
¦ WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Fighting Illini look to spoil Irish streak on ND court 

By WES JACOBS Spurrs Wrircr 
/\l'ler splitting two away matches ovor thfl weekend against Tennessee and Kentucky, the Notre Dame women's tennis team will host the Fighting Illini today at 3 
p.m. at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
The No. 13 Irish will put their l 5-game winning streak against Midwest n·gional oppo­nents when they hope to look to dispose of lllinoi8. 
"They've been up and down this vcar. They b,rnt. Northw~stcrn earlier this year, who we struggled with," head coach Jay Loudnrback said. "They could be very good: we just don't know." 
Tlrn Irish may lind an advan­tage in that Illinois has not played a match since bel'urn their spring break two wcrks ago. 
"Wo've really been playing a lot lately -wn'ro tournament tough. I lhink that we'll be sharper than them," sopho­morn l\lichelle Dasso said. 

THE PERFECT COUPLE. NOW JUST $1.99. 
Right now, America's F.M.»itc Bt.uwr.thc WHOPPER~and amediumorderofthe KING OF FRIES'" ,u-e unly $1. 'N. Hurry in, because although they're perfect together, this deal won't last a lifetime. 
The Huddle -Lafortune Student Center 
BURGER 


KING 
It just tastes better.·· 

FOR A LIMITED TIME ONLY. PRICE AND PARTICIPATION MAY VARY 
C19Q9 BURGER KING CORPORATION THE BURGER KING CORPORATION IS THE EXCLUSIVE LICENSEE OF THE KING OF FRIES ANO "IT JUST TASTES BETTER" TRADEMARKS AND THE REGISTERED WHOPPER AND BUN HALVES LOGO TRADEMARKS 
www.burgerk1ng.com 
"Right now we're feeling a lot 
better because we're playing 
outside. We just need to stay 
rested." 
Leading the way for the Irish 
will be No. 61 singlos player Jnnnifor llall. With one morn win, she will gain sole posses­sion or the Notrn Dame record f'or care(1r singl~s wins. Currently, she stands at 107­56, which matches the win total of Mary Colligan, who ,played !'or Notre Dame from 
1982 to 1986. 
Hall became the first Irish 
player to reach 100 wins unrkr 
Louderback on Feb. 1CJ, wlwn 
she beat UCLA's /\nnica 
Cooper 7-5, 6-3. Hall likPly will 
be matched up against Illinois 
junior Stacy Shapiro at the :-Jo. 
2 singles spot. 
"Jen dennitoly deserves this. 
She's the hardest worker on 
the team, and a great ~:aptain. 
She's one of the main reasons 
for how well we've done this 
year," Dasso said. "I just can't 
say enough good things about 
her. This is just another grnat 
thing that she's accomplished." 
Right behind Hall is 
IJasso, ranked a career-best No. 8 nationally in singles. Dasso has been tough to beat. in dual singles matches this year, com­piling a 14-4 mark in 1999 at No. 1. She will 
face  Illinois'  No ..  I  
Simone Kung, a sopho­ 
more.  

At No. 3, Marisa Velasco will be matched up against tough sophomore Karla Rosenburg. Velasco is 
coming off a succossf"ul wnok­
end, where shn was one of only 
two Irish players to win both 
singlns rnatclws. 
Hounding out tlrn singles 
linnup l'or Notre Dame will lw 
Bncky Varnum, Kelly Zalinski 
and Kim Guy. 
/\t doubles, the No. 8 tnam ol' 
Hall and Dasso will look to 
continue to move up in thn 
rankings. Thoy recently 
improved upon tlrnir No. 10 
ranking. Varnum and Volasco 
arc slawd for No. 2 doublos, 
and Lindsey Groen and 
Zalinski will Im in tlw No. 3 
slot. With ead1 match playnd, 
the Irish mov<i closer to Miami, 
tlrn sight of' tlrn Big Hast cham­
pionships. Currontly standing 
with a rncord of' 12 and f>, the 
Irish am looking to gain tlw 
top send for thn tournanwnt. 
The closnst com pnti lion is 
Miami. ranknd 25th, and 
Boston C:ollngn, ranked ()7th. 
"Tim big thing right now is 
the transition from indoors t.o 
outdoors. If we can g,it out­
doors this week, it will make a 
big dilTerence," Louderback 
said. 
Loudiirback is plnasod to 
admit that today's match is 
scheduled for outsidn, Notre 
Dame's lirst out:;ide home dual 
mcet'of 1999. 
Another factor f'or the Irish 
to deal with is Illinois' nnw 
coach. Coming from No. 1 
Florida, he has brought a win­
ning mentality to Illinois. 

"He's dorm a good job. ·They'vn had some good wins, 
and I'm sure they'll play hard 
against us," Louderback said. 
"It snnms that everybody wants 
to play their best against us." 
1801 Irish Way (219)272-1441 


NEED: LEADERS FOR 
APPALACHIA SEMINAR 
TASI<FORCE 
The Appalachia Seminar is currently seeking nwn1b~rs lo join lhc_App.1\achia Task 
Poree for the J999-2001l school rrar. This is,, two semester comm1tnwnt. Inc fask 
Force consists of eight undergraduate studC"nts who form a k•,:l~crsh'.p l_ean\ r1.•spcm­sible for planning, implcmcmting, and cr1Jilting nc\'\' 11pportu111t.1cs w1thin tlw App,1la· chin Seminar. The Task Fori:c is dedicated. le~ l'Xpt!ril'ntial lcarnmg .is i1 merH,s ~n l'n· 
h~nct.., highC'r cducntio11 \Ve nre in 1wed of interestl!rl, l'nthusiM,Lic, nnd comnuth."d 
persons lo join us. 

If you have participated in the Appalachia Scmi1rnr. please con~idcr applying to the Appalachia Task l'on·e. 
Al'PLICATtONS: 

\pplicahons ar,• du,· lhur~tinv, A1nil 1, J99q 
For further information: 

Tnm Kilrov, Studem Co-rhnir. Z?l-1901 
Snrah Koh;'"· StuJc111 Co-chair. 4-~892 
R:i-·hel Tomas Morg1111. S~mi11ar Dirwor. 1-5~9) 
. . .. 

. . . .. . . . ... . . . . .. ... . . .. . . .. . . . ...
~ 

-
-
• 
page 20 The Observer •PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, March 3 I, 1999 
I -• I ­
I I I I 

7:2e-:­

Recipients receive CJ:~ 



R~:::-yaP" IZ4 ­
www.nd.edu/-recsport 
Upcoming Events & Deadlines 

Christmas in A ril Benefit Run Saturda A ril 1 0 -11 :OOam SK, tOK or 2 -Mile Walk Prizes to top finisher in each division. T-Shirts to all finishers. 
Fee is $6 in advance or $7 day-of. Register in advance at RecSports. Deadline for advance registration is Friday, April 9, 5:00pm Al! proceeds to benefit: Christmas in April. 
Look for this award to appear in the Observer every other Wednesday. Students selected receive CJ:~ 
l'T'-L..-~.1.-'... .... .... 
-
merchandise courtesy of \,,,&.,, .. -n,--y-and the v;ir•• with two locations in the Joyce Center. The Vil•O· 
is open Monday-Saturday 9:00am to 5:00pm and Sunday 12:00pm to 4:00pm. (Phone: 631-8560) . 
.. 

Wednesday, March 31, 1999 The Observer. SPORTS page 21 
¦ SOFTBALL 
Irish curb Bulldogs to extend win streak to seven 
By MATT OLIVA held the Irish lO no runs and only t.hrei1 Spores Writer hits before surrendering the home run to McCJHary. 
The lri.sh swept a two-game series In the second game, Moschcl (4-0) againsl Butler Wednesday aflernoon to earned the complete gamo victory whiln remain undefeated at home (6-0) and 19-shutting out tlrn Bulldogs. 11 overall. The Irish scor<'d quickly when .!Pnnifer 
The performances oJ' senior captain Kris Kriech led-off the first inning with a sin­McCleary and freshman pitchc>r Michelle gle. and movnd to snr,ond on Arny Laboe's Moschel led the Irish to their 2-1 and 2-0 sacrifice bunt. Kriech took third on a wild victories. pitch and was then singlnd homo by short­
In the l'irst game, McCleary hit the stop Melanie Alkire. game-winning two-run home run in the In the third inning, McCleary singled to bottom of the sixth inning. driving in Amy center with two outs. Lizzy Lemire fol­Laboe, to give the Irish a 2-1 lead. lowed with a double -hei· seventh of the 
The Bulldogs attempted a comeback in year -to move McCleary to third. She the top of the seventh inning with runners tl.rnn scored on a wild pitch by Butlnr at second and third bases and with two pitcher Katie Finley. The run gavn the outs. Pitcher Angela Bcssolo (6-4) got Irish a 2-0 lead and that was all that Irish Butler's Shelli EHiot to pop out to third to pitcher Michelle Moschel would 1rned. end the game and earn the Irish victory. Thn freshman right-handor held Butler 
Mr.Cleary was making her first appear­to five hits on tlrn day, with fivfl strikoouts ance in the lineup after missing the last and no walks. Tho shutout improvnd hnr six games due to mononucleosis. earned run average to 1.80 for the season, 
She started the game as the designated second on the team lrnhind Jnnnit'er hitter and was 0-2 on the day before hit­Sharron's 1.73 EH/\. ting the two-out home run. It was her The Irish will travel to play No. 15 team-leading third of the year and ninth Illinois-Chicago Thursday al'ternoon and 10th RBIs. bc~fore opening t.he Big East season 
Butler's losing pitcher Stephanie Burlein against Pittsburgh on Saturday. 
¦ WAY OUT IN LEFT FIELD 


Reinstatement of Proposition 16 ensures fair competition 
Ronald Buckwalter that prospedivP students. School. accumulating many aca­allowed 92 p(m~ent of white ath­By JOHN COPPOLELLA Proposition 16 had an "unjusti­Implemented in 1995 as a demic, athletic and extracurric­letes to participate. Spons Columnist fied disparate impact on stricter version of Proposition ular accolades. This discrimination extends to African-Americans." 48, it governs the NCAA's initial However. their SAT scores did low-income studcmts. In July 
Ycswrday, a thrne-judgc panel The rationale behind eligibility requirements for stu­not meet the minimum 820, and 1995, the U.S. Department of ol' llw U.S. Court of Appeals for Proposition 16, according to the dent-athletes at more than 300 they automatically became ineli­Education's National Center for thn ]rd Cirniit grant11d the NCAA, is that chaos would result Division I colleges. High school gible for participation in inter­Education Statistics found that NCAA a ruling that rninstatcd if each of its Division I schools graduates may be denied partic­collegiate competitions and ath­Proposition 48's test score cut­Proposition I(1. at lca<;t t1m1-was able to create its own rules ipation in intercollegiate compe­letic scholarships. In the words off would deny eligibility to more porarily. regarding admissions and eligi­tition and athletic scholarships if ol' Cureton, "The NCM's than one-third of lower-income 
THIRTY IMPORTANT QUESTIONS ABOUT SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY,AND VALUES 
Proposition 16's bias against ­
African Americans, low-income 

I. Is there really su,ch a. thing as technological progress. or is it just a nice name for 16, How is scientific re:-;earch funded in different countries·! Who should <la.:ide 
whatever happens'! researx:h priorities·! 
students and women is unac­

2. llow l.'an we be sure what scientists say is true'.' Is there i.l sure way rn pmve 17. Are the minute entilies hypothesized by physicists real or are they simply 
ceptable; this mandate must be 

1he s.tutcrnents of sciem..·e'! construct-. that ··suvc the phenomena," or fit the observations? 
eliminated. 

3. Do~s cm11pured1:ati{)n pose uny serious mural problems'! l 8. Does observation depend on theory'! 
If this mandate is eliminated, 
it will make it increasingly morn

-J. How "w"e the ret:hnnJoi:in1' developments of mmf~nl socjery ;.1t'fected .'>odaf 19. Js sl"ience v-ah1e-neurrnl'! 
.slruciure·! 
diflicult for schools like Notre

20. ls technology value-neutrul'! 
5. How do our cJef1nilim1s of whul is !-lick a11d whal is normal renect sod~ll 
Dame, which rarely accepts 

l' un vent i,ms'! 21. Do 11011-humuns have righls'? What rights'! 
Proposition 16 (or 48) students, 

f,, ilow far has 1he c~Hll"\e of Wl'St~rn s.cience heen the umas;sin.g of hlC"ts; how far 22. How do m1.'llical systems and hen1ing prnfes!'ions ttiffer in variou" cultures 
.......
to compete for stud1mt-athletes. 

has it been u chnn{!e in wnyl'l of viewing the world".' around the world'.' 
Yes, it would allow schools to 

7. A.1·e there r1ch1 anfi.wer.s in le,ch:nolngicnl controversies·! 23. Cnn hum~m behavior (and humanness) be reduced to biocht:micul or geneticnl e;\.planatwns·t 
make their own rules based on 

.H. Arc unJcn..li:vc:ll1pcd ~ounuies JcstlncJ Ill fo1Iow the sami! steps of industrial 
athletic eligibility, and those 

lli:velop111ent !hut huve he:en folh.1we<l by 1be U.S. and Western Eu1·ope'! 2..t, V/hy c.Jic.l rdigious peo1Jle bel,':ome upset with the findings nf Galileo and Darwin'! 
rules may vary significantly in 

'I. llnw ..tre t:hnngec,;, in reehnolngy rf'l1el:'ted Jn novel~. poems.. nml the visunl o.11c.:;'? 2.S, C,m there be more rhnn (}ne satisfactory explanadon for any given set of 
places liko Nolrn Dame and Ohio 

10 t-h1w Uo patitmt·s concepticm~ of ilJm:ss differ trnm dl)ctor's cl',ncepttons of observt1tions"! 
State. This is a small price to

lhse.isc·! '26. Is 1nathemutks the l.mgua~e of .sdencc·~ b it rhe only lan~uage of science·] ls 
pay, however, for the opportuni­

11. Dn mui.:hines \l!!r\lt us or tin we serve machine.... ·! it the language of all science'! 
ty to participate in an environ­

-
12. U11w tlid indus1rh.1Hzution change the way onlinary people lived and worked'! 27. Duel'i rhe vntil flood nf technical publications. and lhe accompanying spccial­
ment whnrc sturfonls arn trnat.ed 
iiation it demands, pose a pnibJem'! 
1.3. Ilow ~m, we lO ie!<tpomJ tu the poss1hility of human doning? 
fairly and people who have 

28. In tcchnulog:iull cuntnn:ersics. is it po:;sible tu :-.eparatc nuH'al issues from 
earnnd Urn right t.o compde ­

14. Whal s.tlits t•f t11,kal 1>rohlems \I.ill ND gc1duate-s likely e1Kounter as they enter scientifically soluble te-chnil:al issues? 
1t~ehnt11ugical1)J-inte-n...ive carc.'"ers"! 
like Cureton and Shaw -arn

29. How do we snlve the 4uestions of distributive justice that arise with new I!\'., Are scicn,,;e uml Christi.ani1y amilhctkal, unc,onn~ted, l)f co~evolvcd and 1.:o­tec:hnoh~gies'! 
allowed to do so. 
evnlvi111f! 

..
30 Can a le'l.:h1wlogical sodety be a democratic sodety·J 
The views in this column are 

EXPLORE THESE QUESTIONS BY BECOMING AN STV CONCENTRATE. 
those of the author and rwl nec­
essarily those oj"The Observer.

FOR INFORMATION INQUIRE AT 346 O'SHAUGHNESSY OR AT www.nd.edu/~reilly/. 

Thn dncisirni l'ollowed a March bility based on the grade point 8 ruling by U.S. Distrir,t Judge averages and tests scores of 
they fail to meet its require­reliance on the SAT is hurting student-athletes -despite their ments -a 2.0 GPA in 13 "core" hundreds -if not thousands -success in the classroom and in courses and an SAT of 1010. of student-athletes like me who the face of adversity. For higher­Studenl'i with lower test scores have worked hard in school." income students, the figure was need higher GPAs and vice­Indeed, Cureton is correct. A just oml-tenth. versa, and SAT scores cannot 1984 NCAA Technical Report This discrimination extends fall below 820. concluded that, had Proposition even further to women. Data 
However, since its implemen­48 been in effect in 1977, more from a 1994 Division I partial­tation in 1995, this rule has than half of all African­qualifier report shows that more rightfully come under fire. American student-athletes who than 70 percent of women failed 
The best illustration of its graduated or were enrolled in to achieve full-qualifier status problems is Cureton v. NCAA, college in 1983 would not have be1:ause of the tnst portion of tlw the case ruled upon by been granted full eligibility. rule, whereas just over 50 per­Buckwalter. This case involved These harrowing statistics cent of men wero eliminatnd by Tai Kwan Cureton, a freshman prove that Proposition 16 is dis­their scores. at Wheaton College and Leatrice r,riminatory. The same survey. Perhaps the ultimate irony is Shaw. a Miami University fresh­taken in 1986 and including the fact that wcmks aftnr man. white student-athletes, produced Proposition 48 was passml. 
Both Cureton and Shaw lost similar results. According to the Gregory Anrig, then-president of recruiting opportunities and report, had Proposition 48 been the Educational Testing Service, Division I eligibility solely in effect in 1984 and 1985 (it maker of the SAT, exprnssed because of their test scores. took effect in 1986), it would "serious concerns" about this Cureton and Shaw both finished have denied full eligibility to 4 7 rule and warned that "the use of in the top 10 percent of their percent of African-Americans a fixed cut-off score" would neg­class at Simon Gratz High who went on to graduate but atively impact African-American 
student-athletes. 
The NCM's repeated rejection 
of the advice of its own 
346 O'Shaughnessy 
researchers, independent 

University of Notre Dame -----------• 
researchers and the makers of
Notre Dame. IN 46556 
the SAT has ballled critics and left student-athletes like Cureton with no recourse but to file suit. 


Qy1cK(:AB 
233-6000 

-ND to Michiana Regional Airport: One Person $8 More than 1, $5 each 
-ND to Entertainment Area: One Person $5 More than 1, $2 each 
-Waiting Time 10-15 minutes. 
Hi\PP\' Ei\STERl 
"RIDE SAFE, SAVE MONEY!!!" 


r--------,
:$2.00 OFF 
I 
EACH TRIP 
I 

I QUICKCAB I 

233-6000
I I I I I I





L--------.J 
Program in Science. 

-----------• Tochrn,logy. and Values (2 I 9) 631-50 I 5 
Wednesday, March 31, 1999
--------------------------------------~------­
¦ Mm's LACROSSE 
Out-played Irish come from behind to defeat Butler 8-7 
...... 
-
-
By MIKE CONNOLLY Associace Sport, Ediwr 
On a sunny day, the mr,n's lacrosse team won by playing ugly. 
The Butler Bulldogs out­shot, out-hustled and general­ly out-played the Irish for most of the game. Notre Dame managed to scratch out an 8-7 victory, however, thanks to Lhrce unanswered fourth­quartrr goals, thr last and gamP winner by sophomore David Ulrich. 
"It was a dog fight today," Irish co-captain David Biddison said. "It came down to which team wanted it more. \\°(' didn't bring our best game today but Wfl ground it out and canrn away with av.in." 
In two prnvious Great Western J.arrosse League games, Notrt) Dame dr:featecl Dt'nver 17-9 and Air Fore,~ 16­
2. Early in Tunsday's gamn. it appeared as though the Irish would cruis<' lO another easy league win. 
Chris Dusseau, who was 
named Great Western 
L,lcrnsse League Player of the 
Week for his two goals against 
Hobart lasl Saturday, and 
Brad Owen each scored early 
goals to push the Irish out to 
2-0 first-quarter lead. 
The Butler offense, which 
came into the contest averag­
ing 15 goals per game, would 
not be shutout for long, how­
ever, as they struck back 
quickly for a transition g()al 
and cut the deficit to one. 
The Irish responded with 
two more goals of their own. 
Todd Ulrich got his ninth goal 
of the year off of a pass from 
fellow sophomore Tom Glatzel. 
The Irish pushed their lead to 
three on Owen's second goal 
of'the game. 
Butler used its quick strike offp,nse again to answer the 

¦ SPORTS BRIEFS 
Weekend Racquetball Tournrunent -Sign up now at RecSports for the week­end racquetball tournament to be held on April 9 and 10. Bring your own racquet and 
your best game to the Joyce Center Courts. Men's and women's divisions, Cost is $8. Deadline for sign-ups is April 7. Balls will be provid­ed and T-shirts will he given to all participants. Refreshments will be served. For more informa­tion. contact the RecSports office at 631-6100. 
Casting and Angling ­Clinic will be offered on April 6, 13 and 20 (Tuesdays), 6-7:15 p.m. in the Joyce Center a.nd Campus Lakes. $8 class foe. Hegister in advance at RecSports. Join Dan Bucha. certified American Casting Association instructor, for three evenings of bait-cast­ing, Hy-casting, spinning and fishing. Equipment will be provided but bring your own if possible. Contact RecSports at 631-6100 for more information. 
Kayaking -Register at HecSports for four pool ses~ sions and a one-day excur­sion. Classes will be held April 12, 15, 19 and 22 at H.olfs Aquatic Center, 7~10 
p.m. Class size ls lim.lted and cost is $15. If you have any more questions, please ,call the RecSports office at 631" 6100. 

Irish goals. Chris Vosburgh tired a hard shot from 15 feet out that beat Irish goaltender Kirk llowell to the near post. Doug Paterson scored four seconds later to close the gap to one once again. 
At the 6:02 mark of the first half. Curt Buss tied the game on an unassisted goal. 
Despite the tie score, the Irish were out-played by the Bulldogs in the first hair. Butler managed to control the ball and forced the Irish to play defense most of tho hall'. 
"Our defense had to play most of the game," assistant coach Kevin Anderson said, "Butler controlled the ball most ol' the game. Kirk llowell played unbelievably in the 
cage today. They held  us  in  
tlw  game  and  gave  us  a  
chance to win."  

By limiting the transition opportunities and forcing the Bulldogs to work from set plays, thP Irish shut down one of the bfist offensr,s in the country. The Bulldogs' seven goals was their second-lowest total of the season. Only sp,c­ond-ranked Duke held the Bulldogs Lo fewer points. 
"Thry are a great unsettled team, pushing the ball up and down the field," Anderson said. "So we felt that by taking their transition game away from them we could play six­on -six and do some good things." 
Butler's leading scorer, Cory Kahoun, was held scoreless on the afternoon. With their lead­ing scorer shutdown, the other Bulldogs failed to step up their offensive play 
"He's their best player by far," Biddision said. "So we were looking to him every time he got the ball. We were doing quick slides and every­thing we could to get the ball out of his hands." 

Tl1e Observer/Jeff Hsu 
Bringing his season total to nine goals, midfielder Todd Ulrich scored during the second quarter of Monday's 
contest against Butler. The Irish beat the Bulldogs 8-7. 
In the second half, Irish mantling 7-5 lead with only six sophomore Steve Bishko minutes left in the game. regained the lead for the Irish. Tom Glatzel finally broke the Bishko found the back of the scoring drought with 6:23 left net thanks to an excellent pass in the game. Glatzel's goal by senior Ned Webster. seemed to inspire the defense 
Bishko's goal would be the as they stepped up their play last for the Irish for over 20 and forced the Butler offense minutes as Notre Dame to turn the ball over. entered a scoring drought. Biddison was especially 
"We probably played the dominant down the stretch worst we've ever played," forcing two turnovers by him­Dusseau said. "We didn't have self. any rhythm on offense today." Bishko got his second goal of 
While the Irish offense sput­the game at the four-minute 
tered, the Bulldogs' caught mark to tie the game at seven. fire. Butler reeled of three The Irish won the ensuing straight goals and took a com-face off and patiently worked their offense to earn a good shot. Finally, David Ulrich broke free and blasted the ball past Marc Ferrando for the game winner. 
Butler fought back and made the last 50 seconds interesting for Irish fans. The Bulldogs managed to fire three good shots at llowell. The Irish goaltender stood his ground, however, and turned each shot harmlessly aside. 
"That's why the game is so much fun," llowell said. "You get the chance to make that save and turn tho game around." 

If you need to do some catching up or want to get a jump on fall, summer classes at Holy Cross College may b~ just the ticket. Choose one or both sessions, each offering a wide variety of quality general education courses. And pay our summer tuition rate of just $170 per credit hour. 
Take advantage of exceptionally small classes, a dedicated and caring faculty, and our convenient location just to the west of the University of Notre Dame campus, Credit earned is transferable. And on-campus student housing is available. 
You_'ll enjoy summer activities even more, knowing that you're also getting ahead in your studies. Write or call Holy Cross College today. Applications for Summer Sessions I and II, as well as for the 1999 Fall Semester, are now being accepted. 
Session I -May 17 to June 24 
*ROLY CROSS COLLEGE 
Office ofAdmissions 

P.O. Box 308 • Notre Dame, IN 46556Session II -June 28 to August 5 (219) 239-8400,ext. 22 • Fax (219) 233-7427 
e-mail: vduke@hcc-nd.edu 




Wednesday, March 31, 1999 The Observer• TODAY page 23 
SLURRED SPF.ECH DAN SULLIVAN HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
li.'I . HovJ 
~ ,ALL ·r,Jt 

, '\_,, "'-. YOU 601 
0,~ 
/
' ' , I 
I / /// 

rOXTROT BILL AMEND 1<.&.'!'1£, I'M SoRRY, [ I-IAV€ AN t0£~. lET''i O!t:, S-.1) •DEA. LET'S 
"'llWE'S "Tl-llS t'iN'T IIIMAT I BvT Y~ MOiliER oflEI\I UP 1M1S 816 To'Y R£At> SoM£ oF '!OUR 
C.WES"! 'll-l!NI( IT IS ON T'WE SAi[> No TV. CHEST of 'rOUl1S AND BooKi INSTEAO. 
··e1.ue·s APPLE l\J1CE Lfl8El, IS IT?' 'r-.._
TAk! "lbUIOl•ND ~) 

\ " \(,~_,)
off TMAT ~w. 1,_.,_~ ­
' 

DILBERT SconA~MS 
r-:::========::=:::-,E r-::::::_:--------­
_D_O_G_\3_£._Rl"_'$_T_(_C_l-\_5_U_P_PO_R:_:T___, ] 
R.ENT A V~N ANO ~ 
CAN

0 
~ 
... NOW

FILL IT WITH 5T0LEN @ 
WE.
u

YOU'LL NEE.0 TO DO 
~ 

A.I I"\ T 1-\E.
.. 

DYNI\MlT\:.. PA.R.K ~ 
TALK? 
u,

A HARD ~EBOOT 

A.T THE VA.N . 

CROSSWORO 
ACROSS 28 Yankee legend 60 Sports figure .Rizzuto 62 After-lunch
1 Mayberry loper 
31 Pub. workers sandwich s C sharp 
32 Collar stain 63 Just kidding 10Sound 
33 Butts of Jokes around astonished 
36 Middle of the 64 Clears 14 Job for a body prayer 
65 Easter 

shop 
41 Suffer sans air preparation 15 Baghdad native conditioning 
66 Quits 16 "Takin' --the 
42 -Honor 

67 Not JUSt a tnp Streets" (Doob1e 43 Sch. for across town Brothers hit) ministers 11 Newswoman 
46 Fateful day Klensch 47 Davis of 
DOWN 
Hollywood18 Kind of calendar 1 Words of praise 48 Hunger (for) 19 Enthusiasm 2 Fib

50 . -minerale 

20 Beginning of a 3 Mouthing off 
52Agonyprayer 4 Night light 53 End of the 23 Author Bennett 

prayer 5 Totally uncool 24 Popeye's Olive 
58 Clunker 6 Bell or whistle 25 Schlemiel 
59 Language of 380 7 Pool 26 Walrus hunter million demarcation 8 Marine shade 9 Q followers? ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10 ThingamaJig 11 Loose Puzzle by Nancy Solomon and Harvey Estes 

12 Slew a vampire. perhaps 35 Eye sore 49 Martian explorer, 55 Clue e.g.
13 Raft steerers 37 Knicks center 
56 Dopewho was the 1986 Rookie of 

21 Part of an E-mail so Come out in the 
address long run 57 Ain't correct? 
the Year 22 1990's sitcom 51 Actor Claude 

23 Injure 38 Deep trouble 61 Condescending 39 Mechanize 54 "What's--?" cluck
27 Bad reviews 28 Ship refueling 

40 It has a bark but places 
no bite Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
43$, #,%or &
29 Water (down) are available by touch-tone phone: V --t-+--+-R O A D 30 Composer 44 Pooh's grumpy 


A  A L  W O R R Y  Stravinsky  pal  
L  L  I A  A L E T A  33 Scurried  45 Maniacs  
ST  E L S  Y EM EN  34Preflxwithphoto •47 Clear tables  



The Observer 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name ______________________ Address ___________________ City ________ State ____Zip______ 
"Mexico and the Colossus to the North" will be the ·topic of a seminar presonted by Sergio Aguayo of El Colegio de Mexico today at the Hesburgh Center for International Studies in room C-103 at 7 p.m. ND Grad student Lana Wc~vor, trombone, presents a solo recital this evening at 7:30 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Graduate student Tatiana Mester and alumna Sheree Wesenberg will accompany on tho piano..The ND Brasss Quintet will also perform. The program includes selections by Telemann, Bernstein, Ferdinand David, John Cheetham nnd William Goldstein. Tho recital is free and open to the public. Please call 1-6201 for more information. Wanted: Reporters and photographers. Join The Observer staff.  ...  
The Observer P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556  •  

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS VIRGO (Aug. 23•Sept. 22): You DAY: Grace Kelly, Nadia Comanen, can make financial gains through Neil Young, Tonya Harding pruperty invcstmcnls, insur,inre pnf,. 
Happy Birthday: Keep in mind ru.as. an inheritance or somL' winnings. that you don't have to take drastic Make favorable changes in your meas·ures this year in order to makl" L1ornestic scene, but make sure that your point. Br direct and blunt about you have everyone's approv,11 000 1hr way you feel, and you will fmd 11 l.lBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Pleasure much easi~r to g<.'t on with the impor• trips or short jaunts to visit frll.·nds or tant things in life. You are clt'Vc.>r relatives will he successful. Take h('{'d enou~h to know that compromise or the advice given. Your mood will may be nt~(~ssary in order to rt~ach bt• romantic and your partnl.'r will be your aspirations. Your numbers: 7, l01 receptive. 000 19, 28, 37, 4(, SCORPIO (Ori. 23-Nov. 21}: Pul 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Sud• your greatest cl/arts into your profes­den romantic encounters will sci your sional endeavors. Social events will head spinning. Don't jump too quick• promote new romantic ties. Your ly. Your energetic persona will cnabll• investments must be conservative you to be the center of attention at Think twice before you sign. 0000 social i;atherings. 000 SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Take Your spontaneity will cause others to advantage of the opportunities that gravitate toward you. You will b<, in present themselves. You will be in a for adventure and social e\'ents will better position If you discuss your provide you with the ncCl'ssary objeclivcs with authority fii;urcs. CXCllCmcnl. 00 Direct your energy wisely. 00000 CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): . GEMINI (May 21·Junc 20): Gel­Sudden good fortune can be yours if ting together with family and friends you takl• a chance. Deal with govern­wifl be conducive to meeting nl•w ment agencies or any red t,1pe that romantic partners. You will be in 1h,• you may have hanging o\'er your mood for lovL· and your outgoing head. Bt• secretive about your person• nalure will open doors tha1 lead In ,11 life 00000 nC'W avenues, 00 , AQUARIUS (Jan. 20•Feb. 18): 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You PIC!asure trips and social actwity will will have an abundance of energy. be cntertainin~. Satisfy you~ passion~ Immerse yourself in work-related ah.• mood The contributions you pro1ects where vou will receive lh<• make to organizations will enhance biggest payback. You can gain popu• your repulalion 000 larity with both your superiors and PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your your co-workers. 0000 hi~h energy will enable you to accom• 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Put vour phsh more than your colleagues. You 
-
energy into self-improvement can gel respect from superiors if you 
programs, Competitive games will present your unique approach lo 
be your forte. You can easily im­your Wtirk. You can work well with 
press others with your generous ,,thcrs. 000 
nature. Tri!vCI will promote romantic 
ronnections. 000 

Birthday Baby: You arc constantly ballling with yourself. Should I or shouldn't P, and so on. You must tum your inward battle out and realize that to make a decision is always better then to sil idle while others make decisions tor you. If you want somethm~ you must learn to ~o after it. 
• ¦ ·OF INTEREST
i 


HARDBALL 
_..,.. 
¦ Softball stretches streak to seven games after taking two against Butler. 












PORTS 
p.21 
O 
THE 

Queens ofthe Cou11 
¦ The No. 13 Irish will put a I5-gamc Midwest regional opponent streak on the line 
against Illinios today. 
p. 19 
¦ MEN'S BASKETBALL 

ND names Doherty 16th head coach 
University chooses Kansas assistant to revive hoop team 
By BRIAN KESSLER Sporrs Editor 
As University of Kansas assistant coach Matt Doherty was lcavini the

-
Final Four in Tampa, rla.. Monday, h<' jokingly asked Notre Dame offi­f'.ials, "Do I gPt on a plane for South BPnd or go home to Kansas City''" After a brief silence, athletic • "Doug Wojcik di rector Mik n named asoiscanr W a d s w o r t h coach" replied, "Well, nm p. LS you get on a plane to South Bend." Tuesday morning, Doherty board­ed a plane to South Bend and was introduced as Notre Dame's 16th head basketball coach at a 4 p.m. press conference in the Monogram Boom of the Joyce Center. "Sounds prntty good to me," said an emotional Doherty after the announcement. "This is a very proud moment in my life. Everything Notre Dame stands for and represents how l try to live my life. ''I've been very fortunate to be involved with several champi­onships, but this ranks right up there. if not the highest profession­al accomplishment of my career," he said. Wadsworth noted his depart­ment's hopes in hiring Doherty. "We were looking for a coach that is going to be able to bring this program to the point whern it will be competing in the Final Four." Wadsworth said. "Wn wanted someone that knows how to win and whose whole experience will demonstrate that experience. ·\1att's experience was just that" Doherty has shown that he knows how to build a championship-cal­iber team. At Kansas, he helped the Jayhawks to the NCAA Tournament during each of his seven seasons, pushing them to a Final Four berth in 1993. Kansas won five Big Eight/Big 12 Conference titles dur­

see DOHERTY/ page 18 
¦ BASEBAtl 




Doherty will build program with recuiting 
By BRIAN KESSLER Sports Ediror 
Notrn Dame head coach Matt Doherty might have a few things to learn about Notrn Dame, but when it comes to recruiting, he's a sea­soned vetoran. 
As a University of' Kansas assis­tant, Doherty played a key rol(i in signing nine McDonald's high schoo I Al I-Aim~ ricans. inc: Iucl ing standouts .larque Vaughn, Had LaFrentz and Paul Pinrcn. 
"Ono of' the things that we know in the success of any program is the ahility to rocruit." athletic director Mike Wadsworth said. "One of the things we hnard con­sistently about Matt Doherty is what an outstanding recruiter he is. And of' course the success lw enjoyed on the staff at Kansas is a perfoct illustration or that." 
lln plans to continue that sucrnss and ]urn top-notch recruits to South Bend. 
"It is the my job now to convince young men throughout the country and throughout the world that it is a great decision to play basketball and attend the University of Notre Dame," said Doherty, who coordi­nated the scouting and recruiting at Kansas. 
Critics of the Notrn Dame baskPt­ball program have consistently pointed to Notre Danrn's high aca­demic standards as a problem. for recruiting. Doherty hopes to use Notre Dame's strong reputation to his advantage. 
"l don't look at :--Jotro Dame's academic prowess as being diffi­cult," Doherty said. "I look at that as being different in a positive way. Look at what Stanford has done in the PAC I 0. I am excited about going into a kid's home who is a great studnnt-athlete, and recruiting them to Notrn Dame." 
Doherty, howcv1ir, did strnss the need of finding playPrs that will fit the Notre Dame mold. 
"We don't go al'tm every player," 
see RECRUITS / page I 7 


ND starts homestand with ninth-inning rally to win 7-6 
ByTIMCASEY 
Spons W rirer 
The Irish baseball toarn continued its winning ways yesterday, rallying for a come-from-behind 7-6 victory over Wisconsin-Mihvaukee at Eck Stadium. 

• With the victory, their 12th in 13 games, the Irish now stu.nd at 16-7 on the srason. Wisconsin-Milwaukee wasted no time putting runs on the board, with a first-inning solo home run to left field by second baseman Steve Tylke. 
The Irish countered with two runs of their own in the bottom half or the inning. Alec Porzel knocked in Paul ()'Toole with an RBI double and Jeff Felker's RB.I double to right field plated Matt Nussbaum to put the Irish up 2-1 after the first frame. 


The Panthers burst out to a 4-2 lead after three innings behind the timely hitting of Mike Oiler and Steve Johnson. Johnson's sacriflce lly plat­ed Tood Ludwig in ttrn second, while Oiler's single in the. third scornd Tylke and Chad Sadowski. 
After tying the ga.1110 at 4-4 in tlrn fourtl1 inning behind RBl's by Jeff Pnrconte and Ben Cooke, the teams were knotted at that score until the seventh inning. Sadowski again came up big, this time with a solo hom1i run, to give the Pantlrnrs a ;i-4 lead. Th,~ Panthers strntclrnd tlrn !Pad to 6-4 with an RBI singl11 by Darin !laugom which scorncl OilN. 

Despite being behind by a couple of runs, h(\ad coach Paul Maini1~ri was pleased with his team's play and pitching. Miko Naumann started the game ror· the Irish and allowed four runs on six hits and thr1\n walks before being rnlieved by Mi.ke Carlin, who pitchnd "two shutout innings. 
Dniw l>ufT canw intn tlw game in the sixth, giving up two runs in two 
see BASEBALL/ page 17 
• 
Baseball
at Purdue, at Hofstra,

~·) vs. Providence (DH),


SPORTS 
t..::::,,J April 5, 2 p.m. Saturday, I :30 p.m. 
M;> 
Thursday, noon 

... ..... ATA 
Softball 
vs. Illinois, at Miami,

Yi}· wp E!J 
vs. Hope College,
'·,:-.::) Today, 3:30 p.m. Friday, 7 p.m. 


GLANCE 
Today, 5 p.rn. 



