Teens tune in 
Arocky rebellion 
Scene looks at lhe WB network's success 
Palestinian citizens fight back with stones and 

Wednesday 
among teenagers with popular shows like 
slingshots in protest ofthe killing of 
"Pe/icily" and "BujJy the Vampire Slayer." 
a street vendor. 
OCTOBER 27, 
Scene . page 14-15 
WorldNation . page 5 
1999 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXXIII N0.39 
GETTING CAUGHT IN THE '0' ZONE 
KEVIN DALUM/The Observer 
Graduate student John Hooker puts the ·finishing touches on his sculputre "O" made of steel and concrete in front of Riley Hall. Hooker noted that the resemblence to a powdered donut is valid, although the sculpture is of nothing in particular. 
<;atH KPPp.-r," 



Smith: 'Operation Gate Keeper' responsible for deaths 
said Smith.

. Immigrants turn dcr," Instead, 
migrants trying to illegallyto more dangerous enter the U.S. must attempt to 
U.S. entry routes cross through deep canyons, mountains, deserts or a treach­erous irrigation canal. 
By ERIN LaRUFFA ;\s a msult, Smith said, the 
Nl'W:'> Wricl'r number of immigrant deaths has increased in the past five years -especially deaths from
Tlw UnitNl Stal(!S is abusing hypothermia, dPhydration and
its right to control its borders. 
drowning. Sincn 191)4, 450

said Claudia Smith. a lawyer migrants have
with Liu• d i e d
(:alil'ornia Approximately
Hural l.egal "As we sit here, there are 
I00 have died
Assistancn 

probably immigrants in 
already this

1: o u 11 dat ion . in a lecturt\ great trouble. " vear. 
• "The deaths

T11Psday. Smith spok(i typically hap­
Claudia Smith 
a u t pen onfl at a.h o California Rural Legal Assistance time," and
"Operation Foundation thus attract 
a program that tlw U.S. BordPr Patrol implemented in !IJ94 along tlw U.S.-Moxico l,onlnr 1war Baja California. 
Tlw aim or Gate Kenpt>r is not to deter atlcmpts at illegal immigration, Smith said. The purposP or the program is to divert pott•ntial i!IPgal immi­grants away from typical bor­d(•r-crossing locali11ns to more danw•rous arnas. 
"The 1rnw stralcigy limpln­uwnh\d through 0pcralion Gate KPPpnrl was lo ... snal part of thn lrnrdor and prr.vt'nt onlry llwrn. but nol llw nntirn bor­
little attr.ntion in the U.S., Smith said. 
"They are mainly men in tht,ir tw1rntios." she said. "They're not exactly weaklings." 
Smith also said that planning documents for 0pHration Gato Keeper acknowledged that lhe number of accidents and fatali­ties among migra11ts would increase under tho new policy. 
"Bodies are found on a regu­lar basis," said Smith. "The deaths wnm anticipated." 
The United Nations is cur­rently questioning Operation Gato Keepor as a human rights violalio11. The l11tcramerican Commission on Human Rights also has a case before it rngarding the operation. 

The Border Patrol has now reinstated its Desert Rescue Team, which was disbanded so that lhe officers could be used · !'or Gate Keepcr. 
"lTlrn Border Patrol! was lit­flra l ly shamed into starting Operation Life Saver," Smith said of the rescue team's new effort to save migrants. 
"The deaths are going to keep multiplying," said Smith. "No amount of search and rescue is ~oing to..makc that big of a dif­ference. 
Operation Gate Keeper began al a lime when the budgets of other government agencies were being reduced. However, the number of Border Patrol officers along the Mexican bor­der increased. 
Smith said that the Operation had political motives. The Clinton administration created the policy to gain support from (alifornians in the 1996 presi­dcnlial election, 
Despite its $1 billion price tug, Smith said that Gate Keeper has not been successful in preventing illegal immigrants l'rom entering the U.S. It is pos­sible that more illegal immi­grants are nnw able to enter Lhli country since they now turn to profossional smuggling oper­
see BORDER/page 4 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


Landscaper recovering after near arm loss 
By TIM LOGAN News Editor 
Jane Nielson, a groundskeeper for the department of Landscape Services, nearly lost her right arm while working Oct. 15. 
Part of Nielson's arm was severed when it got caught in a leaf-blower while she was working that morning. Twelve days later, her reattached right arm is healing. 
Neither Nielson nor her family members could be reached for comment. William Thistlethwaite, superintendent of Landscape Services and Nielson's supervi­sor, said she was scheduled for release from St. Vincent's l-lospital in Indianapolis Tuesday. She is expected to return to the hospital for further treatment. 
Details of the accident are still unclear, University officials said, partly because Nielson does not remember exactly what occurred. Thistlethwaite said officials have not had a chance to fully discuss the acci­dent with Nielson. 
Campus security was summoned shortly after the 9:30 a.m. accident and responded quickly, said Phil Johnson, assistant dircc­
see ACCIDENT/page 4 


Claudia Smith, a lawyer with the California Rural Legal Assistance Foundation, discussed the detrimental effects of "Operation Gate Keeper" on Tuesday afternoon at the Hesburgh Center auditorium. 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Wednesday, October 27, 1999 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Complicit to their evil 
Yesterday I was walking across the quad, enjoying the beautiful day. There were students lying on the quad, despite the cold, soaking in the autumn sun. Sun becomes rare in the South Bend winter, and we all like to take advantage of 
it while it lasts. 

Now imagine you've been told that you can never again feel the sun on your skin. 
Now imagine that the rea­son for this restriction is your lack of a Y-chromo­some. Imagine there are no courts for you to voice a complaint. Imagine that you 


are under the complete con­Laura Petelle 
trol of the male members of your family. 
Assistant

Welcome to Afghanistan 
Managing
under the Taliban. 
Editor

Monday, Madeline Albright asked the Taliban to expel Osama bin Laden -the suspected terrorist believed to be behind the bombings of the U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania. In exchange, the U.S. would offer Afghanistan the chance for "normal relations" with the U.S. 
That is completely unacceptable. 
The situation in Afghanistan has been called "gender apartheid." Under the guise of "restor­ing the purity of Islam," the Taliban has required women to wear a burqua -a large garment that covers the entire body -with only a small mesh for the eyes to peer out. No skin may be visible. The windows in women's houses must be paint­ed black. 
They never see the sun. 
Girls are no longer educated and women no longer work. Nail polish, jewelry, plucked eye­brows, short hair, colorful clothes, sheer stock­ing, white shoes, high heels and public laughter have been banned for women. The Taliban for­bids women to go outside except for an "essen­tial, government-sanctioned" purpose, and then in the company of a male relative. Women have been killed for venturing out alone, even when covered by the burqua. They are not tried and executed -they are shot on the spot by mem­bers of the military or "morality police" who are allowed to enforce Taliban rule as they see fit. 
Public flogging, beatings, the cutting off of-fin­gers or hands, stoning and execution are com­mon penalties for breaking the myriad laws of the Taliban. 
Male doctors are not allowed to treat women, and very few female doctors can practice any longer. Women are suffering from severe osteo­porosis because their skin is never exposed to the sun. Suicide is more and more frequent. Visiting doctors have called these women the "living dead." Physicians for Human Rights reports that 97 percent of Afghan women exhibit signs of major depression. 
And now the U.S., under pressure from corpo­rations that want Afghani oil or access to Afghani markets, wants to normalize relations with Afghanistan. I have even heard a Notre Dame student say, "Yes, they're repressive, but it's a better system than we have here [in the U.S.] because it's God-centered." 
The Taliban is not God-centered. It's hate­centered, oppression-centered, brutality-cen­tered. If the United States normalizes relations with Afghanistan, it will be a defeat for human rights and morality on an unprecedented scale. It will make us complicit in their crimes against humanity. 
And it will doom Afghani women to never see­ing the sun again. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Bill Uniowski Julia Gillespie Kare Steer Graphics Kyle Andrews Amy Crownover 
Sports Production 
Bnan Kessler Rachael Protzman 
Viewpoint Lab Tech Brian Hobbins Betsy Storey 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday exc~pr during exam a.nd vacation periods. The Observer ii a member of rhe Associ:ned rrcss. All reproduction rights: arc reserved 
THIS WEEK IN SOUTH BEND 
Student auctions registration time 
CHAMPAIGN, Ill. 
When you register this semester might depend on how much you are willing to spend if University of Illinois student Nick Smith has his way. Smith, senior in engineering, placed his registration time for the spring semester, Nov. 1 at 8:30 a.m., on the virtual auction block found at "www.illiniauction.com" last week. Smith might be the first student to put his class registration time up for auction. The winner of the auction will be able to choose their classes under Smith's user ID. Smith will then drop the classes as the bidder adds them to their schedule when it is the winner's turn to register, This will allow the student to sign up for his ideal schedule or register for classes that fill fast. Smith plans to register for his own classes on the day of the auction winner's registration time. Because he is part of the Campus Honors Program, Smith has always had access to early class registration times. "I'm not worried about registering for my own classes. Because of the program l am in, the classes I need are not usually in high demand and do not fill up quickly," Smith said. 


LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 

AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Today  Thursday  Friday  Saturday  
. Haunted House:  . Haunted House:  . Film: "King of Masks,"  . Oktoberfest: 2651  
Scottsdale Mall, South  Scottsdale Mall, South  Vickers Theater, Three  Pipestone Rd, Benton  
Bend, 5:30 -8:30 p.m.  Bend, 5:30 -8:30 p.m.  Oaks, 6:30 -9 p.m. EDT  Harbor, 6 p.m. EDT  
. Halloween Costume  . lecture: "American  . Cafe Music: Josie  . Flea Market: Pierre  
Sale: Twin City Playhouse.  Impressionists," Kras! Art  Vodicka, Barnes and  Moran Mall, Elkhart, 12 ·_  
St. Joseph, 7 -9 p.m. EDT  Center. SL Joseph, 7 - Noble, Mishawaka. 8 p.m.  5 p.m.  
9 p.m. EDT  

Compiled from U-Wire reports

OUTSIDE THE DOME 

Duke starts academic integrity evaluation 
Wednesday 
Thurs~ay Friday,! Saturday ~ 

If:> 1999 AecuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
,,.,,.u,..~ 
® © D (SJ CTI] w. ES] Em 
() (r_. -iii,
High Low Shower• Rain T-atorms Flurries Snow lco Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy
Sun(fay 

V/IJ JUSoc!8/Bl'1 Press ,~.) -'v ­
Atlanta 77 49 Las Vegas 81 54 Portland 54 42 Baltimore 61 44 Memphis 78 54 Sacramento 70 52 Boston 54 42 Milwaukee 63 45 St. Louis 74 57 s~',; T-~t'ar',;,s Ratn ~,~;;~~ ~~~--;; -Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Chicago 64 46 New York 57 51 Tampa 83 58 Via As~ted Press GrephicsNer 
~~~~~~(f ~~ 
Houston 83 58 Philadelphia 61 46 Wash DC 60 48 
DURHAM, N.C. 
Under the direction of the Center for Academic Integrity, Duke Universitv and 11 other schools are participating in a survey-based pro­ject that will evaluate academic integrity at campuses across the country. At Duke, a campus steering committee will use the data to ignite further discussio.::1 of academic dis­honesty. 
The Academic Integrity Institutional Assessment and Action Guide began Friday, as e-mail sur­veys were sent to 100 sophomores, 200 juniors and 100 seniors at each school. These surveys ask students about the prevalence and methods of cheating they have encountered.. 
-After the student portion of the project is complete, another set of surveys will be provided to 200 fac­ulty members and 25 administrators at each university. 

"It's both quest.ions about behavior and attitude," said Elizabeth Kiss, director of the Kenan Ethics Program and co-chair of the campus steering committee for the project. 
"Participation in this project will serve as a focal point for campus­wide discussion on all of the issues related to academic integrity and will enable us to work toward a bal­anced, equitable, understood sys­tem," said Sue Wasiolek, assistant vice president for student affairs and the administrative coordinator of the project. 
In two similar surveys earlier this decade, the university -which implemented the undergraduate Honor Code in 1993 -fell between schools with an honor code and those without, said Trinity junior Matthew Baugh, co-chair of the committee and chair of the Honor Council. 
"I suspect that Uukc will once again fall firmly in the middle, con­firming the notion that, though Duke may be a school with an honor code, it is still not an 'honor code school,"' he said. 
Although Kiss said she has no expectations for what the surveys will show, data indicates that cheat­ing is not as prevalent at schools with strong, visi~le honor codes. 

Students concerned about alcohol 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. 
A recent Cycles survey indicates that a main concern of Brown University students is alcohol abuse by fel­low students, which raises questions about the actual extent of underage alcohol consumption and its harm­ful effects. While many underage students find it easy to buy alcohol, gain access to local bars and clubs, or drink at on-campus parties, the university maintains its approach of enforcing the legal drinking age and promoting safety on campus. "I do not sense that underage drinking at Brown has changed much over time," said Associate Dean for Chemical Dependency Bruce Donovan. He recalled his experience as a stu­dent at Brown in the 1950s and said, "it doesn't seem much different now," except that "other drugs are now far more accessible." According to Donovan, "the most startling change is that now people are starting to drink at a younger age." Donovan works with stu­dents at Brown who suffer from alcohol addiction and other drug problems. Some of the students he sees recover from their addktion before reaching the legal drinking age, he said. 
Wednesday, October 27, 1999 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Delaney: Apocalypse intriguing because of 'millennial year' 
By MAUREEN SMITHE News Writer 
Pnrcnptions of the ,md ol' tlii.1 world. scinncn, history and art clcpcrncl on thn dnfinition used for apocalypsn, according to Notre Dame philosophy profos­sor Neal Delaney. 
Dnlanev said that Im finds thn topic of' ·apocalypse intriguing because "ii is tlin millennial 
V(~ar.H 
· IIP said that llw phrast! "nnd 111' tlw world" is particularly untinwly for this N1~w Y1•ar's. "Wlwn poop!<\ usn this phrasn, thev use tho word '!rnd' d!•s<:riptiv!dy." he said. "Tlw wholn eosmos is coming to a grinding-llalt, but Lim timo franw is not a thrnat to us right now." 
Christianity dPscrib1•s thn apocalypsP a·s an t>nd to our curr1int physical world in favor ol' a diffpn•nl sort of' continuing ordPr. IH! said. and "with rngards lo tlw 11Pxl prPdiction. 01w has to adopt a bPlief'-f'orm­ing strnkgy.·• 
Dnlanny said that the l'irst stratPgy is similar to gambling, suggosling lhal prnvious apoc­alyptic prndictions havn lrnnn wrong until now. "so we should take the next one seriously." 
llis stratngy. however, is one of' pessimistic induction. "We l11.1.v11 lw{:n and will be wrong about these predictions," he said. 
In conjunction with the end of thn world, Delancv also said that tlrnoriPs arise ·regarding science. "There was a time when those who should know thought that the ond of scicncn was now. with ·now· referring lo th!' 18th century," Im said. "This gross error of judgement did not undermine the picture of sciPncn as coming lo an end ,.. it's just that the end is not so c!Parlv in view." 
Delaney predictHd that some­<lav scinnco will como to an ,.nJ. 
"ft is r1\asonab)c to bclivc that it will cunrn to an end -in the considNahln future," lw said. 
Delaney's definition of tho end of history "states that them is such a dcvoloprncnt ow\r tin1P and that it has come to an end in liberal democracy. This Llrnsis refers lo human history." 
Ile said that the demise of major dictatorships gave rnbirth to tho idea of the end of history, and that the thesis "is 
believable only to the degree that the overall ideology is believable." 
Delancy also said that the end of art is the most defined. "It's nut about end in the sense of terminance -it's a much more nuanced thesis about the history of art," he said. 
Starting in the 16th century wilh Michelangelo's accom­plishments, art was declared to have reached its zenith. The thesis was obviously prema­ture, Delaney said. Art has evolved to different levels, he said, including contemporary modernist forms, which explore a range of philosophi­cal possib\Iities. 
"The modernist art projects ... create art for the purpose of understanding what art is," he said. "Art has become philo­sophical." 
Delaney said there is no deli­nito kind of thing that art is, and that what we have been left with "is a kif)d of radical pluralism." 
"The end of art is that there is no grand narrative unifying all artists," ho said. 
The lecture was sponsored by the Snite Museum in collabora­tion with the College of Arts and Letters. 


Education, understanding increase breast cancer survival 
. Nurses share prevention methods for early detection 
By ALISA SCHMITT 
News Wrir,r 
Womnn have a greatnr rhant'I' of' brPasL cancer sur­viva! through education and understanding ol' the disease, according to two nurses from the \fomnrial Hegional Breast Carn Center in South Bend. 
Kelly Mailloux and Lynn Sobecki, who both have been working with oncology patients for 15 years, conduct­nd a panel discussion at Saint Mary's last night concerning brnast cancPr and methods of prevention. 
"It's sad that with all of the information out there, patients in the later stages, still hesi­tate to come in nut of fear," Sobecki said. "Lately young women. 30 to 40 years old, have been coming in with can­cer that has already spread." 
The center sees approxi­mately 1,000 patients a month and offers services such as 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS IN 




MEXICO 
2000-2001 
Students at any level ofSpanish -Beginning to Advanced -from AL, BA, SCI, and ENG are invited. Studio Art courses also available 
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1999 
4:45 PM 
HOSPITALITY ROOM, SOUTH DINING HALL ( enter through Reckers) 

MEXICAN APPETIZERS 
Application Deadline for Fall 2000, A Y 2000­2001 is December 1, 1999 
screening and diagnostic girls as young as 13 begin mammograms, breast exams monthly exams. and self-exam education, sec­"The exam isn't to lind can­ond-opinion service and psy­cer, its purpose is knowing chological counseling. what feels normal." she said. 
"One of the major miscon­"Women need to understand 
ceptions that still exists is that if it doesn't run in the family, that there is no risk," Mailloux said. 
Mailloux and Sobecki agree that early educa­tion and detection are key allies in 

"It's sad that with all of the information out there, patients in the later stages still hesitate to come in out offear. " 
Lynn Sobecki Memorial Regional Breast Care Center 
that they arc looking for changes when they conduct their exams, not cancer." 
Mailloux and Sobecki agree that women who find irregu­1 a r it i es should have no fear 
fighting the disease. 
"It is interesting to see that people are educating the younger women," Sobecki said. "It is nice to know that young people are concerned with healthy habits." 
Mammo-grams are an effcc­tive way to detect tumors, however, they are only given to women under 35 if a health problem occurs. The best methods of prevention for young women, Mailloux and Sobecki said, are monthly breast self-exams, and yearly exams done by a doctor. 
Sobecki recommends that 


CANCUN & MAZATLAN $499 & UP SKI •CRESTED BUTTE $329 

1-800-SURFS-UP
www.swdentexJress.com 

because 80 percent of lumps are not cancerous. The breast exams are important in find­ing abnormalities early. 
In most cases, if found in early stages, women can be cleared of the cancer, even in older women. 
The nurses stressed the importance of contacting someone if women find any­thing irregular. 
"Go to health services or call your physician and ask ques­tions," Mailloux said. 
They also encouraged people to eat healthfully and exer­cise. 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, October 27, 1999 


CONFLICT AND VIOLENCE 


Accident 
cont_inued from page 1 
tor of Notre Dame Security/Police. Nielson was treated at the scene. The South Bend Police Department then took Nielson by ambulance to Memorial Hospital. 
She was later flown to St. Vincent's Hospital, where she has been since. Doctors there reattached the arm. 
Nielson was using a Toro 345 combination mower/leaf-blow­er to clear leaves near Saint Mary's Lake, said Michael McCauslin, assistant director of Risk Management and Safety. 


Border 
continued from page 1 
ations. 
Nevertheless, people continue to die while making their way to the U.S. 
"As we sit here, there are probably migrants who are in great trouble," Smith said. 
She is also concerned with the methods used to detain 

The machines are ridden and commonly used around campus for landscaping.. 
There have been no signifi­cant injuries involving these mowers in recent memory, said McCauslin. The department of Landscape Services trains its staff in the operation and func­tion of the machines, he said. 
Nielson has worked as a landscaper for the University on and off for the last three vears, Thistlethwaite said. She is currently a full-time employ­ee, and her supervisor hopes she will return to the job after her arm heals. 
. "She is great," he said. 'Tm hoping she'll be back after this." 
and transport migrants who have been apprehended in the 
U.S. Many are held without food and water for long peri­ods of time. Some are even bound together with mana­cles. 
The Kellogg Institute for International Studies and the Department of Sociology cosponsored Smith's lecture, "Immigration and Human Rights: The U.S. 'Operation Gate Keeper."' 

Panel shares eating disorder advice 
cupation with food, diet and
By KA TE STEER 
weight, Deeter said that her 
News Writer 

situation began in high school with a dedication to exercise About 30 students sat capti­
and a strong competitive spir­vated Ttwsday night as a fel­
it. low student shared the story "For me it was more of an of her life-threatening experi­issue with running: run five ence with eating disorders. miles, run six miles, run JoAnna Deeter, a Notre Dame 
seven miles. It was consum­senior, spoke during a panel ing," she said. discussion on the issue in 
Support systems are essen­Pangborn 
tial in the Hall. 
recoveryEaling dis­"The most successful process,orders have 
treatment involves the Deeter said, 
been the but there is

help ofphysicians,

focus of also a: need recent stu­therapists, nutritionists· for self­dent-written recognition
and family"
letters in The 

of the prob­Observer 
lem. and criticism Saira John 
"It was of the University Counseling Center great lo administra­
have a team 
tiou's Jack of of support,initiative in 
but I had to 
addressing the issue. 
want to do it myself." The event began with video 
Saira John of the Universitytestimony of several individ­Counseling Center also par­ual experiences with either 
ticipated in the discussion to anorexia or bulimia. The provide a counselor's point of 
video included a listing of view on the subject.signs and symptoms of both are
John said that there 
disorders. Deeter then spoke many theories on the devel­about her experiences. 
opment or eating disorders, 
"My story isn't one you 
The most prevalent points to 
haven't heard before," she 
issues of positive reinforce­began. 
ment for weight loss, familyDeeter said that Notre dynamics and "societal pres­Dame especially fosters a sures to uphold an unreason­
competitive, involved charac­
able standard of beauty." ter that is conducive to eating 
"Only 5 percent of the pop­disorder development. ulation of women fit the Problems often begin with model type presented to soci­students who are over­ety," she said, citing Barbie 
involved and too busy to take 
as an example. John said that care of themselves. 
there are similar unattain­While the majority of peo­able images for men, who ple with eating disorders 
constitute about 10 percent of experience a growing preoc­
reported eating disordered 
individuals. 

John said that a multi­modal approach to treatment often works best. 
"About 80 percent of indi­viduals get better with treat­ment. The most succAssful treatment involves the help of physicians, therapists, nutri­tionists and family," she said. "In the Body Facts 
most s1were . 5 percent of cases, those 
the population of

in which the individual's women Iii the life is in 
model type pre­
danger, a 
sented to soci­

hospital stay is part of ety, the treat­
. 80 percent of

ment." IJ e c t e r , infividuals with 
w h O s e an eating disor­r e co v cryin v O Ive d a der get better 
month-long with treatment. stay in a 
. 10 percent of
hospital, 

agreed, say-reported eating ing that sta-disorders tistics and pictures can involve men. 
be helpful in confronting someone who exhibits the signs of an eating disorder, especially anorexia. Reassuring the individual that recovm·y and improve­ment are possible is key, she said. 
"I can tell you today that [the struggle] is hopeful," Deeter said. 
The discussion was the result of a group project for Carol Williams's abnormal psychology class requiring a mental health public educa­tion campaign. 
Make it a great weekendI Don't miss ... 
Friday, 
October 29 at 8pm O'Laughlin Auditorium 
IMtiifiDc;_~ THE ARTS 
~NOTRE DA.ME, IN 
For li~ket info~mation c~ntact 219/28 4 4 6 2 6 
the Soml Mary sBox Office at .. 






orld 


Wi:Jnesday, October 27, 1999 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Russian troops penetrate Chechnya 
GROZNY 
t•:xploding artillery shdls rattled windows and sprnad foar in the Chechen capital Tunsday, as tho lwavinst fighting in wenks brought Hussian tanks and soldiers near Uw city limits. Clwrlir.11 Jighlcrs battled the Hussians within two miles of' Grozny's north­nn \\\lgt\, while morn fighting ragod to the ,iast of t.lw city. Thorn were unconfirmed rPports that nliln Bussian reconnaissaucP troops had cnt,mid Crozny. Hussian jP.ts and arlillnry nlsnwlrnr11 bombardntl al. least seven towns and snttlnnwnt.s across Clrnchnyn on Ttwsday, olfo·crs on both sidns said. lip to 200 Hussian tanks and snll'-propnlled artillery pir\,·ns !Pd tlw fiprc1,sL assaults in Lh<' Tcrnk Hidgn aroa, tlw strategic !wights northwest or Crozny's airport. said (;cm. M11m1tdi Sairla.ynv. a top Clwdwn military of1icial. 
Surgeon talks on phone during operation 
. IIONC KONG 
1\ patin11t says his doctor talked on a mobile t1d1·phonP during an operation, officials said Tu1•sday. ThP patinnt. Chung Chi-f.lrnung, i'lainwd his doctor. who was not idnntifind. had chatt1·d on thP pho1rn during surg-cry, according to a spokesman ror Urn govcrn­nwnl-run Ilospital Authority, which is investi­gating. l.oc,tl nwdia accounts added more dl'tails: The doctor allegedly was using a hands-f'rPt! mobiln phone snt and was talking to his car salesman. "I was surprised lwcausc tl11• conVt!rsatio11 had 11uthi11g to do with my medical condition. Tlw convnrsation was about buying a car and how much the car cost," Chung told TVB Pearl television. llaymond Chow. tlw llospilal Authority spoknsmaii. said Tuesday that disciplinary action would lw takcn if' the allegations are trllt'. 
Politician wants to fix language 
SINGAPORE 
Singaporn's local brand of English mixed with Malay and Chincsn idioms has got to go, tlw dty-stat11's most influential politician says. And such complaints am not taken lightly in this closf'ly run Snutlrnast Asian nation when tlwy comn from Senior Minister Lee Kuan YPw, who was prime minister !'or 31 years. I.Pt\ has stirred things up by calling the national dialect ol' "Singlish" a handicap that is stil'ling 1.lw rountry's economic d1weltJp­1JH•11t. Ile lambasted TV comedies f'or popular­izing Singlish. saying that wrongly leads Singapornans to bnlieve they don't need to s1wak proper English. Singlish consists of dippnd srn1lc11ccs like "you cat yourself, we Pat oursp[f'," which nwans "you cat by your­stdf and w1i'II do tlw same." The ever-present word "!ah" 1mds many sentences. 
Composite 
Volurnc:


10,302.13 
1,061,286,740 
VOLUME LEADERS 

CPtli'ANY  TIPllll  CMN'91':'  $ CHNNli  l'BICI  
IN'l'l:L CORE'  Un'C  +O. J7  +0.9100  71. 44  
M!CROSOr'P COII.P  MStl't  -o. 06  -0.05"1'5  9l, 38  
LUCSNT 't'&CM INC  LU  . 4., 90  +;:z.9-,5,0  61.'75  
COMl'NJ COMf'l!TI.R  CFO  -t5. 6l  tl.Oi.l.5  lO .OCl  
CYTlQJtOUP me  C  +l. 8-d  . 0.!!1775  U.6'  
CI BCO IYST&NS  csco  . l.13  +0.7500  IS'7.~5  
Dl:LL COMl'OTJ::1'  DI.Lt.  1-0. 95  --.O.J?l.:5  J9 •.56  
AC'XIOM' CORP  ~CXM  -14. ;i5  -'7.81JS  15 .oo  
PHILIP MOil.RIB C WAL-HA.AT STOii.ES  MO...,  +O.,H, -ii. 80  +0.0600 -J.b81:5  35 -~15 53.25  


S&P 500: 
1281.91 
-11.72 
ISRAEL 


by Jews as the burial place of the not intervene. 
Associated Press 

biblical matriarch. One of the stone-throwers said he 
BETHLEHEM The Israeli soldier who fired the was angry about Monday's shooting 
Hundreds of Palestinians hurled fatal shots said the vendor tried to as well as restrictions on Palestinian stones at Israeli troops on Tuesday, stab him. But Palestinian officials movement in and out of Bethlehem. the day after an Israeli soldier killed said Abu Hilail was shot without "We are protesting to let the world a Palestinian souvenir vendor outside provocation. know that we are still under occupa­a Jewish shrine. The Israeli army denied a tion and there is no peace," said 
Israeli troops fired rubber-coated Palestinian allegation that soldiers Khaled Azza, a 19-yoar-old student steel pellets at the crowd. Ten prevented a Palestinian ambulance at Bethlehem University. Palestinians were injured, two of from reaching Abu Hilail in time for British Foreign Secretary Robin them seriously, paramedics said. One the crew to treat him. Cook canceled a visit to Bethlehem on soldier was hit in the eye by a rock. Palestinian merchants closed their Tuesday. 
In widespread rioting Monday, 15 shops Tuesday, and hundreds of There has been concern in Palestinians and two Israelis were Palestinians marched to Rachel's Bethlehem, where the Bible says injured. Tomb. Protesters, some masked, Jesus was born, that ongoing vio­
The clashes were triggered by the threw rocks and empty bottles and lence could hurt tho millennium death of Mousa Abu Ililail, who had fired slingshots at Israeli soldiers tourist season. Bethlehem has been been selling postcards and souvenirs guarding the site. preparing for the influx of millions of near Rachel's Tomb, a site revered Palestinian police arrived but did visitors, starting around Christmas. 
CHINA 

Police arrest protesting sect members 
A i':ew York-based China's communist leaders meditate," she said. Associated Press 
spokeswoman for the group view as dangerous cults. Falun Gong adherents 
r.laimed that police have The national legislature is wen~ taken away aftfir simi-
BEIJING arrested about 1,000 mem­reviewing the law this week 1ar acts at Tiananmnn 
Chinese police detained bors over the last few davs, at the Great Hall of the Squarn on Monday. A Web dozens of' Falun Gong spiri­a r<'port that could not bo Prwple beside Tiananrncn site run by the group said tual movement members independently verified. Square. police bnat and detained a on Tuesday, pulling them On Tuesday, police took Police in street clothes dozen followers who into polico vans after they at least 36 people from the distinguished the Falun unfurled a Falun Gong ban­staged a second day or civil square, often in batches of Gong adherents rrom ner. disobedience in Tinnanmm1 six or morn. They induded Chinese tourists in thn vast Hachlin said two mem­Square to protest a govern­middle-aged or older square by quietly asking bers jurnp1)d to their deaths ment ban on their group. women and a middle-aged people if' they came to from a train af'ter being 
The \ow-key protnst, man who was forced into a protest. Those who detainod in Boijing and tor­which participants knew van along with seven answered "yes" wern quick­tured. Ono was still hand­assured their arrests, womon and teen-ag-ers. ly detained. cufli:id, Hachlin said. showed that the By gathering in clumps Gail Rachlin, the New Without dirnctly address­Communist government's amid the throngs or tourists York-based spokeswoman ing the allegations of' mis­three-month crackdown on Tiananmon Square, the for Falun Gong, said the treatment and mass arrnsts, and its campaign of vilifica­protesters hoped to high­protesters "just want to Chinese Fornign Ministry tion against Falun Gong light their disapproval of a have the government spokeswoman Zhang Oiyw~ leaders has yet to eradicate proposed law against Falun understaad them." defended tho crackdown on the popular movement. Gong and other groups "All they want to do is Falun Gong as lawl'ul. 
-·­

page 6 The Observer . ELECTION NEWS Wednesday, October 27, 1999 
Ventura undecided 
on run for presidency 
Associated Press 
ST. PAUL, Minn. 

Reform Party Gov. Jesse Ventura says he would consider a presidential run next year if Minnesotans mobilize behind him. 
The goVf~rnor made the com­ment Tuesday in an interview with Harvard Current maga­zine. Ventura has previously said he did not want the job of president, would not run and planned to fulfill his commit­ment to serve a four-year gubernatorial term begun in 1999. 
"If l turn around and run for president then I lied to all the people of Minnesota," he said. "So unless you can get Minnesotans to say, 'Go ahead, Governor Ventura, run for pres­id~:11.· we give you our backing 
An interviewer asked whether Venl.ura would run if Minnesotans mobilized fully behind him. 
"I'd consider it, but then again I got to want the job and I'd have to consider it with my family and I don't know if my family would want me to do that." 
He continued, "If you can mobilize Minnesota to do it, then, you know, there we are." 
The magazine interviewer asked, "What do you mean, 'There we are'?" 
Ventµra responded, "That would open the door for the possibility of it But by no means am I telling you I would do it." 
The interviewer asked, "But there is a possibility, a hope?" 
Ventura, "Yeah." 
The governor's spokesman John Wodele was traveling with Ventura, but refused to com­ment on the contents of the interview or hand the phone to Ventura, who was sitting next to him. 
"I don't see any reason for me or any one else to expand on what he said," Wodele said. "What he said is what he said." 
In a separate interview Tuesday with WCC0 Radio, Ventura sent a different signal about the presidential contest. 
'Tm the natural candidate to do it, but l don't want to do it. You gotta want the job. I don't want the job; it's that simple. I do not want the job," Ventura said. 
Minnesota Planning Agency director Dean Burkley, who recruited Ventura to run for governor, said Ventura's com­ments to the Harvard Current ran counter to any discussions he had with him. 
"In all of our discussions, he has always expressed the clear­cut desire not to get involved in the presidential race. I haven't heard anything different," Barkley said. "He's clearly told me that he's not interested in running." 
Bradley leads Gore in NH poll 
Associated Press 

CONCORD, N.H. 
Bill Bradley has a narrow lead over Al Gore in New Hampshire and fares better in a hypo­
thetical match up with GOP front-run­n e r George W. Bush than the vice president 


would in Bradley the state, says a poll released today. 
Among the 455 Democratic voters surveyed, Bradley had an apparent lead of 4 7 per­cent to Gore's 39 percent in the Quinnipiac College Poll. 
Among the 459 Republican voters surveyed, 41 percent favornd Rush to 28 percent for Arizona Sen. John McCain. Ten percent were for Steve Forbes. No other candidate was higher than 5 percent. 
New Hampshire holds the nation's first presidential primary Feb. 1. Several re.cent polls have shown Gore and Bradley in a statis­tic al dead heat, and one other gave Bradley a narrow lead. 
Gore and Dradlev face each other Wednesday night in a forum in Hanover, the first nationally televisfld meeting of the two Democratic candidates. 
A Boston Globe poll of Nflw Hampshire voters released over the weekend showfld Bradley and Gore in a statis­tical dead heat, with 45 per­cent for Bradley and 42 per­cent for Gore. 
Bradley continued to draw stronger support from inde­pendents than Gore. 
The poll for The Boston Globe by KRC Comm uni­cations Research was con­ducted Oct. 1 7-19 and has an error margin of plus or mi.nus 5 percentage points. 
The sample was made up of 303 Democrats and 97 independents who said they would probably vote in the Democratic primary. 
In the Quinnipiac poll, Bradley and Bush would tie at 42 percent apiece in the state if they faced each other in a presidential election now. But the Texas governor would beat Vice Prnsidcnt Gore 49 percent to 36 per­cent 
The Quinnipiac telephone poll of "1,254 registered vot­ers was conducted Oct. 19 through Sunday. 
The overall poll had a margin or error of plus or minus 3 percentage points and plus or minus 5 percent­age points for the party matchups. 


c::: 
&...µ 
z:t-­
&...µ 
~ 

Explore our Columbia University offers environmental immersion programs at its beautiful Biosphere 2 Center campus in
Earth and its 
the Sonoran desert of Arizona. Undergraduate students 
dynamic can enroll in the challenging Biosphere 2 curriculum to earn college course credits.
ecosystems! 
Columbia University UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAM Offerings: 
¦ 
EARTH SYSTEMS ¦ EARTH SEMESTER FIELD SCHOOL I & II 16 weeks: January-May 2000 Session I -6 weeks: June-July 2000 September-December 2000 Session II -4 weeks: July-August 2000 

¦ UNIVERSE SEMESTER 

¦ 
BIODIVERSITY INSTITUTE 16 weeks: September-December 2000 5 weeks: June-July 2000 Summer 2000 program also being planned 



Wednesday, October 27, 1999 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Taiwan security act 
www.superjobs.com 
incites China debate 

Associated P re,s 

WASHINGTON 
A House committee moved Tuesday to expand U.S.­Taiwan security ties and s_end a clear message to Chma that the United States would respond to aggression against Taiwan. The Clinton administration said thi> mea­sure could worsen tensions across the Taiwan Strait. 
The "Taiwan Security Enhancement Act," approved 32-6 by the International Relations Committee, would increase training operations and exchanges between the two militarics and establish lines of communications during crises. It also states that it is in America's national inter­est to make c!1rnr that the United States will support Taiwan from outside coer­cion and force. 
The legislation was modi­fied considerably from the original bill by Rep. Tom DeLay, R-Tcxas, which would have authorized the sale of specific weapons to Taiwan. . 
But the Clinton adminis­tration still criticized the measure. 
"These types of changes can be particularly destabi­lizing given the current envi­ronment," Assistant Secretary of State Stanley Roth told reporters, saying it could ultimately undermine Taiwan's security. 
Several Hepublicans who worked to modify the origi­nal bill, Asia subcommittee chairman Doug Bereuter, H­Neb., and Matt Salmon, R­Ariz., also cautioned against upsetting the delicate U.S. ­China-Taiwan balance. "We should not und1uesti111ate the sensitivity of U.S.-China relations when it comes to Taiwan," Bereuter said. 
The legislation is an out­growth of Chinesr. hostility toward democratic changos in Taiwan, a strong anti­China drift in Congress and Republican criticisms that the administration has sacri­ficed Taiwan's internsts to maintain stable n~lations with Beijing. 
"Wo are troubled by the Clinton administration's handling of Taiwan policy," said Committee Chairman Ben Gilman, R-N.Y., citing its unwillingness to sell Taiwan some defensive weapons systems and talk of a "strategic partnership" with Beijing. 
But in a sometimes rau­cous debate, Democrats on both sides of the measure defended the administra­tion's Taiwan policy, includ­ing the decision to send U.S. aircraft carriers into the region after China in 1996 test-fired missiles in tlrn Taiwan Strait. 



Microsoft Company Presentation 
Thursday, October 28th, 7:00 p.m. Greenfield's Cafe 
WIN a FREE palm-size PC running Windows CE! Bring your resume. 
Microsoft· 
www.microsoft.com/college/ www.microsoft.com/college 
page 8 The Observer . NEWS Wednesday, October 27, 1999 
Drug offenders no longer eligible for student loans 
their convictions overturned. saying they were current users that is a reason to say no," Colleges won't have to police
Associated Press 
Students must report any of an illPgal drug, meaning Frank said Monday. "This kind their students. Instead, stu­drug convictions on forms for they had used the drug in the of blanket ban is a mistake." dents will be asked to rnportWASHINGTON federal financial aid, including month before th0-y were sur­Students for S<msibl0-Urug their own criminal records onStudP,nts C'.onvictcd of drug Pell grants and student loans. veyed. Policy, which aid forms sub­offenses will be barred from Some student groups complain D. Jean Veta, the Education opposes the ject to reviewreceiving federal college tuition that the new rules are counter­Department's deputy general Jaw, plans to "Obviously ifsomeone is by federal offi­aid for onr productive. · counsel.had no estimate fur meet in cials, Students 
year from Student drug use a drug dealer or a
"It's kind of bachvard to deal how many students the regula­Washington must com­
date of con-
according to with a drug policy by denying tions could affect, but added: for a confor­serious user. that is a plete forms in
viction and. 
people an education," said "If we find out a student has enc e on that reason to say no. This each year of
in some recent surveys: 
Jamie Pucschel, a 1998 college lied, we not only requirn anrl othPr eligibility with 
cases, per­kind ofblanket ban is a
. 33.5 percent 

graduate who is now legislative repayment of any aid received, issues next other self­
rn an c n t 1~· mistake."
director of the Washington­but the student would Le at month. reported
under rules of college stu­
based U.S. Student Association. risk for prosecution for lying Cnder the informationlaking effect dents used Justice Department officials to the federal government. regulations, such as
Rep. Barney Frank 
next summer. 
drugs in 1995 say there's no database desig­"We are ve.ry concerned which were income and
The regula­D-Mass.
nating stud,~nt drug offenses, about students being truthful released last acad1!mic sta­
tions are . 16.10118-to 
but a statement rnleased bv about all aspects of the finan­Friday, a first tus, Veta said. 
based oII a 25-year-ollls are 
Sen. Judd Gregg, R-N.H., cites cial aid application," Veta said. possession Convictions
law enacted 
a University of Michigan study Rep. Barney Frank, D-Mass., convit·tion will block aid for a occurring after students applylast year to current drug that said 33.5 percent of col­vvho imsuccessfully sought to year, while a sales convirtion for aid but before July 1, whenreduce waste users lege students had used illegal limit the student loan legisla­will bar aid for two years. the rules take effect, mayin the student drugs in 1995. tion, said such provisions could Students convicted of possess­result in tlrn loss of eligibility. 
loan system. They do not apply A recent nationwidr survrv unfairly affoct young people ing drngs for a sncond time will For exampJP,, a first drug-pos­to juvenile records, and some indicated that drug use among who were not serious drug Jose aid for two years; a third session conviction Feb. 1 would students will be able to rrtain young adults ages 18 to 25 has users, time, permanently. A student make a student ineligible foreligibility by completing drug risPn in the last five years, with "Obviously if someone is a convicted twice of selling drugs air! from July 1, 2000, until
rehabilitation or by having 
16.1 percent, or 4. 5 million, drug dealer·or a serious user, will lose aid permanently. Peb. 1. 2001, 
UNITED KINGDOM 
House of Lords votes to end heredity rule 
MILLIONS OF 
governing party timeservers 
Associated Press 
THE BEST MINDS IN
and cronies of the prime min­ister.
LONDON 

The hereditary peers whoMembers of the House of 
win a temporary reprieve are
Lords voted late Tuesday to 
AMERICA HAVE ALREADY
being selected by ballotsend the right of hereditary 
among their fellow aristocrats,
peers to sit and vote in Final results will beBritain's upper chamber of 
announced Nov. 5. 
CHOSEN ·fflE BEST
Parliament. 
The bill ends the 800-year
The bill was approved by the right of hereditary peers to be

body 221-81 shortly before 
lav,;makers. Thev retain theirmidnight after hours of emo­
titles and 

RETIREMENT SYSTEM:
tional debate. It estates,
marked one of 
''.A long chapter of At one point
the final stages 
history is being closed during the
of Prime 
debate

Minister Tony tonight ... 
Tuesdav, a 

TIAA-CREF.
Blair's efforts to 
duke's· son 

remove heredi­
Lord Strathelyde jumped on the
tary peers from 
speaker's his­

Conservative Party leader
the chamber. 
toric seat in the "A long chap­

hen it comes to planning a manage the largest stock account in the
House•of Lords ter of history is 

W
declaring 

comfortable future, America's world (based on assets under management).
being closed 
"treason."
tonight," said Lord 
best and brightest turn to the expert: Today, TIAA-CREF can help you
"Behind this bill for Lords'
Strathclyde, an opposition 
TIAA-CREF. With over $250 billion in achieve even more ofyour financial goals.
reform lies a hidden agendaConservative Party leader in 
which is treason," the Earl of 
assets under management, we're the With TIAA-CREF you 'II find the
Lords who urged members to Burford said before leaping onabstain from voting. 
world's largest retirement system, the flexibility and choice you need, backed by
the Woolsack, a square seat of
Britain's opposition stuffed wool that has been 

nation's leader in customer satisfaction," a proven history of performance,
Conservative Party, which reserved for speakers since 
and the overwhelming choice of people remarkably low expenses, and peerless
most of the bluebloods in the the 14th century.
chamber support, debated 
in education, research, and related fields. commitment to personal service.
Deputy Speaker Lord Boston, 
until the last minute about who was perched on the
their lordships having to vote Woolsack, ducked out of the 
Expertise You Can
themselves out of existence. 
way as ushers grabbed and
But if they had rejected the 

Count On Find Out for Yourself
ousted the 34-year-old earl,
bill, Blair could have present­
heir to the 14th Duke of St. 
For over 80 years, TIAA-CREF has intro­To learn more about the world's premier
ed it again in the Labor-domi­Albans.
nated House of Commons in 
duced intelligent solutions to America's retirement organization, talk to one of our
Burford was in the chamberthe new parliamentary session 
exercising the right of the 
long-term planning needs. We pioneered the retirement planning experts, or better still,
starting Nov. 17. The Lords 
eldest sons of peers to sit on
cannot twice reject a bill 
portable pension, invented the variable speak to one ofyour colleagues. Find out
the steps of Queen Elizabethpassed by the Commons. 
annuity, and popularized the very concept why, when it comes to planning for tomor­
II's throne, but not take partLords leader Baroness Jay in proceedings. 
of stock investing for retirement. In fact, we row, great minds think alike.
said it was "lime to say thank But the earl -whose family
you and gnodbyc" to the 
motto is ''A pledge of betterhereditary peers, times" -sprang up from thc·
The Blair government has 

To find out more -give us
steps, complaining volubly
not decided on the composi­a call or visit our websitethat the bill removed "inalien­tion of a new House of Lords, able rights granted to my fam­which is expected to be partly 
I 800 842-2776
ily by King Charles II in 1684." 
ii En.fflrlng the future
appointed and partly elected. 
"Indeed the very existence of Critics charge that the new 
for those who shape it."" www.tiaa-cref.org
the monarchy is threatened,"chamber will be a gathering of he said. 
Got news? Call 1-5323 
0DALllAR. Inc., /99i JJ,,.f,"nt'J L://ltri'b111t°qn Rr\.·tllm,y &ring.,, Past puform..u1cr is. no guar,rnh:c offutu~ re~ults.. TIAA-CREF fnJiv'klual anJ Institutional Services, Inc. distribute• CREl" ct"rtitica.tcs and interests in the TIAA Real Estate Account. Teachen Per.a.on.al lnvurors ~Mees, Int.:. dl$tributci the TTAA-CRl~F' Mutual Funds. flol' more l·ompJete information, including l'har-ges anl! expense~. pluM" call for prospe<-·tuses. R"acJ rhem u.-rfully ~f~rt you invHt or a~nJ mcmey. To r-equeat pr'08pe('tu:tts, caU ! 800 842~2733, e~t. £>509. investments in aecuririH such as mutual funds an<l variable annuitiu .1.re !lubject to certain r~s~s induding the po.S$lhlt loss of principal. a,qq 
Wednesday, October 27, 1999 
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 
page9 

High Court reviews electric chair 
Associated Press 
TALI.AIIASSEE, Fla. 

The U.S. Supreme Court 
agreed Tuesday to consider the 
constitutionality of electrocu­
tion for tho lirst timn in more 
than a ccn Lury, haltin!{ the use 
of' Florida's P)nctric chair. 
The dnrision grn11Ls an oµm1­PllflPd rnµrinvn Lo a man sdwd­ulnd f'or nx(iculio11 Wc'chrnsc!ay morning und anotlwr that had b,H'll st:IH'clulnd lo lw Ploctro­n1tPd 'l\wsday. 
Tim high rourt's decision cunw rwnrly four months al'ter a bloody nxPcution -the third botdwd 1')1\ctnwulinn in Florida this dP<'adc•. In J!)lJ0 and 1')97, llanws Pruptnd l'rom tlw lrnad­pincp worn hy thP l'.0Jl(ll'm1wd kilhT. 
1\Lt.or11,\ys l'ur dnath row i11111atf's hi1vn l.riticl unsuccoss­l'ully i11 statc-n,urts to pr11v1• that dPaLl1 i11 tlw l'!c·,·tri,· chair violatr-s tlw ban on crupl and unusual pu11ish111P11l. 
Florida is onn of only four 
slat.-s in the nation that rnquire 
execution by electrocution. The 
only lime the U.S. Supreme 
Court has considered whether 
electrocution can be used as a 
method of execution was in 
1890, when New York became 
Lhn first state to approve use or 
an electric chair. 
Tim U.S. Supreme Court deci­sion came less than an hour aftnr lhc Florida Supreme Cuur'L granted Anthony Bryan a two-day stay lo pursun fodNal appnals. Bryan was scheduled to gu lo the· electric chair at 7 a.in. Wcd1wsday for llrn 1983 murdnr of a Mississippi wateh­
man. 

Bryan's stale lawyer. Andrew Thomas, called ttie d1)cision "mommHmtal." 
CO\ . .Jpb Bush wa.s surprisNI and disappoinlnd. 
"Prom ollr persp11ctivn, it's u11f'nrl111lal1• lll(' family nwm­bnrs ol' llw victims haw to wait f'or justicn," spoknsman Cory 
Hated by Liberals 
Denounced by 
Conservatives 
Feared by 
Moderates 

Tilley said, adding that Bush 
still has confidence the chair 
will operate properly. 
The last man to die in 
Florida' s electric chair was 
Allen Lee "Tiny" Davis, whose 
execution in July for the 1982 
murders of a pregnant 
Jacksonville woman and her 
two young daughters led to a 
legal challenge o·r electrocution. 
lie suffernd a nosebleed just before the current was applied, causing blood to drip from his face mask and onto his chest as lw was electrocuted. Davis may also have be<m partially suffo­cated before he was electrocut­ed because of the placmnrmt of a leather moulhpince across his 
face. 
Bryan. 40. is condemnPd for the 198:1 murdnr of George Wilson, a 60-year-old watch­man who was abductPcl in Pascagoula, Miss.. and killod in a remote area in the wostnrn Florida Panhandlt1 county of 
Santa Hosa. 
Court upholds late­terID abortion laws 
Associated Press 

CHICAGO 
In a victory for anti-abor­
tion forces. a sharply divided 
federal appeals court on 
Tuesday upheld laws banning 
rertain lalfi-term abortions in 
Illinois and Wisconsin. 

"We conclude that both 
laws can be applied in a con­
stitutional manner," Judge 
Frank Easterbrook wrote in 
the majority opinion as tlrn 
7th U.S. Circuit Court of 
Appeals split 5-4 over the 
issue. 

The decision reversed a 
[ederal judge's ruling that the 
Illinois law was unconstitu­
tional as well as 11 temporary 
order f'rum an appeals panel 
that had blocked enforce­
ment of' the Wisconsin law. 
The court did say there was a possibility lhat bans on what critics describe as "par­tial-birth abortions" could unfairly be applied to prohib­it other types of' abortions but said lower courts should act to prevent that. 
The Center for Reproduclivr, Law and Policy says 30 states have passed similar laws banning the pro­cedure, and 20 have been barred by courts from enforcing them or at least sharply restricted. 
Last month, the 8th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in St. 
Louis struck down bans on 
the procedure in Nebraska, 
Arkansas and Iowa, calling 
them unconstitutional. 
Abortion rights attorneys 
said they were deeply disap­
pointed by Tuesday's ruling 
and indicated tlrny probably 
would appeal to tho U.S. 
Supreme Court. 

"This decision creates a 
constitutional crisis which 
will probably go to the 
Supreme Court because it 
flies in the face of" the high 
court's previous decisions, 
said .larwt Benshoof, prnsi­
dont or the Nnw York-baSl)d 
Centnr for lleproduclive Law 
and Policy 

Shn called it a "radi!'.al 
decision" that puts "st.atri 
interest in thn f'utus above 
women's lwalth." 

Susan Armacost. a lobbyist 
for Wisconsin Hight to Lif'o, 
said llrn dHcision shoots down 
argumonts that the state's 
law was vague and would 
apply to ollwr types of ahor­
lion. · 

"It is a huge victory for tho babins of' Wisconsin that would be facing this lwinous 
procndurn if it had not b1wn upheld," she said. 
The procedure in qunstion is known medically as a "dilation and extraction." It involves rnducing tho size of the fetus' skull as part of the process or removing it. 
0PRING 0REAKS 
And yet, more than 40 years 
after its publication, Atlas 
Shrugged continues to sell 
more than 100,000 copies 
each year. 
In a Library of Congress survey, Atlas Shrugged was named second only to the Bible as the book that has been most influential m people's lives. 
Why? 
Be prepared to check every premise at the root of your convictions. Atlas Shrugged is a mystery story, not about the murder of a man's body, but about the murder-and rebirth-of man's spirit. The novel dramatizes a philosophical revolution in the form ofan action thriller. Impossible? Start checking your premises. 
Discover the radical ideas ofAyn Rand, one ofthe most provocative writers of the 20th century. Visit your local bookstore or go to: 
http:l/www.aynrand.org/books 
Learn more about Ayn Rand, her philosophy, and the Ayn Rand Institute at: 
http://www.aynrand.org 
Already read Atlas Shrugged? 
Ir you think you might be interested in participating in a campus Objectivist club, contact campus club advisor Stewart Margolis, at stewartm@aynrand.org, or at 1-800·365-6552, ext. 210. 
LASVEGAS
.•....•...•.•...........•........ 
DESTIN
.•...•......••.•....•..• INFORMATION & RESERVATIONS 
1-800-SUNCHASE 19'f www.sunchase.com e¦ 
~-~_----­
! p•"ID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, October 27, I 999 
f Jp~ag~e~l~O=================================~Th~e:::':O~b~se=rv~er=.=.n==================================================: 
' 

Going up~ 
As you begin your ascent to the top, remember, it's what you learn along the way that counts. At Ernst & Young, you can have endless learning opportunities working with leading companies in leading industries. So when you get to your destination, you'll belong there. Ride with us. www.ey.com 
@ 1999 ERNST & YOUNG llP 

FORTUNE
1or.·~ ·• 
~'1iPANIEI 
TD WURi FOR 

Wednesday, October 27, 1999 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 11 


Interested in gaining experience in: -Project management -Leadership -Financial responsibility -The largest student run fundraiser ($200,000) 
Then, APPLY for the SHIRT PROJECT COORDINATOR 
Submit cover letter and resume to the Office of Student Activities, 3rd floor of LaFortune 
Deadline: Friday, October 29, by 5p.m. 
Questions? Call James Jesse @ 1-4557 
__ ---­
NY homeless to work for shelter 
Associated Press 
NEWYOHK 
Homeless people looking for a place to sleep in New York City shelters will have to work for it 
under a new policy beginning this winter -a move C O n ­demned Tuesday as "a throw­

back to the Giuliani days of Dickens." 
New York is believed to be the only major U.S. city to impose a work-for-shelter requirement. 
The city already requires welfare recipients to work to get their benefits. On Tuesday, Republican Mayor Rudolph Giuliani said city will extend the policy in about 60 days to the 4,600 families and 7,000 single adults staying in city-run shelters. 
New York operates the largest, most comprehensive shelter svstern in the nation for a homeless population it esti· mates at 23,000. In other parts of the country, shelters are often run and financed by pri­vate charities -some of which require people to seek work. 
The mayor's plan stunned advocates for the homeless. "This could literally put bun-


COME JOIN US FOR FREE DINNER AND DISCUSSION When: Wednesday, November 3, 1999 at 5:30 PM Where: Center for Social Concerns 
R.S.V.P. 1-6841
Sponsored by: OMSA 
l 


_ 

Already, many homeless par­ents clean parks or do other jobs in exchange for welfare benefits while their children are in shelter day caf(, centers. 
~..._ 
Student Travel from A to Z 


London 184 Paris 208 Barcelona 244 Amsterdam 226 
From Indianapolis l
each way based on a rt 
purchase. Fares do not 

include taxes, are ~ 
valid for departures 
in November and are 
subject lo change. 
ResIrie tions apply. 

1-800-2COUNCIL 
www.counciltravel.com 

dreds, if not thousands of' pco• pie on the streets," said Patrick Markee, a policy adviser for New York City's Coalition for the Homeless. 
City Council Speaker Poter Vallone, a Democrat, said Giuliani's move was "a throw­back to the days of Dickens. We cannot tolerate this morally or Legally." Vallone acknowl­edged, however, that the City Council has little power to stop the policy. 
The city's new requirements are supported by 1997 state regulations aimed al moving the homeless to work and ulti­mately to self-sufficiency. Last February, an appeals court ruled against the objections of advocates. 
Giuliani, who laughed when told that Vallone compared his policy to something out ol' Charles Dickens' novels. defended his plan. 
"The apostles of dependency want to bring us back to where we had 1.1 million people on welfare and a city where dependency was the rule, working the exception," he said. "I think this is the highest form of compassion and love ­to heir, people to help them­selves. 
Giuliani has made welfare reform a centerpiece of his administration. The work-for­a-bed rule is similar to require­ments city welfare offices have used since 1995 to move more than 400,000 people off publir. assistance. 

VIEWPOINT 
O
HIE 

page 12 BSERVER Wednesday, October 27, 1999 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notr• Dame, IN 4G556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame. IN 4655'6 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Michelle Krupa 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
M. Shannon Ryan  David Rogero  
i\ssT. MANAGING EDITOR  
Laura Pe1elle  

NEWS EDITOR: Tim Logan VIEWPOINT EDITOR: C::ollcen Gaughen SPORTS EDITOR: Brian Kessler 

SCENE EDITOR: Michael Vanegas SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie PHOTO EDITOR: Ke"in Dolum 
ADVERTISING MANAGE!l: Bryan Lutz 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Bret Huelar S'1/STEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers Wm ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kushro 
CONTRotLER: Timothy Lane GRAPHICS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 

CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFO......... .....GJ 1-7471 FAX................................. ............................631-6927 ADVERTISING................................63 l-6900/8840 
observcr@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF.......................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AsST. ME.................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICL ......................................631-5313 NEWS........ ..........:.............................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT ........................................ 631-5303 observer. viewpoinc J@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu SCE.NE......................................................... 631-4540 observer.scene. I@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S .............................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu 
PHOT0.................................. -.................... 631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB AnMINISTRATORS................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sporrs, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-ro-the 
movies/music for 

weekly student reviews 
minute forecasts 
online features for spe­
advertise for policies 
and rates of print ads 
cial campus coverage 

archives to search for 
about The Observer 

to meet the editors and
articles published alter 
August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. Acting as pub­lisher ofThe Observer, the administration of the University of Notre Dame du Lac prohibits the adver­tisement of alcohol and The Observer's acceptance of adverrisements from specified types ofgroups. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent 1he opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing,Ediror, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, leners and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through lecrers is ­encouraged. 
Qumion, regarding Observer policies shoukl be direa­edto Editor fo ChiefMichell,, Krupa. 
DILBERT 
ALICE. I NEED A CAR.EE.Fl-THAT HA.$ J'OB 5ECURITY 

Y2K forces us to face the rising sun 
"The problem of the twentieth century is the problem of the color line -the relation of the darker to the lighter races of men in Asia and Africa, in America and the islands of the sea." -W.E.B. DuBois, The Souls of Black Folk, 1903. 
W.E.B. DuBois' prophetic statement aptly captures the essence of our century, as if he'd had the benefit of 20/20 hindsight. In a sense. he did. No doubt, he reflected upon the previous era in order to predict the upcoming one. Often, historically. the writing is on the wall, even though we may not want to read it. 
Clearly, our inability to lnok across color lines into the eyes of friends have created many of our 20th century problems. Arguably, the same holds true for the lat-Mel Tardy ter half of this millennium, ever since _______ Columbus got lost in 1492 and "discov­ered" so-called "Indians." Perhaps the Life at ND genius of DuBois' statement arises from his ability to simply look at history and the world around him and recognize that the dawn of a new century in and of itself wasn't enough to "iix" prevalent race rrlation problems. 
Now we. like Dubob, have the privilege to witness the birth of a new century and, moreover, a new millennium. We sit poised to turn the page on our Y2K calendar books. Yet, turning that page at the stroke of midnight is not like waving a magic wand to find ­POOF -all our problems are gone. 
Malcolm X often pointed out that "those who don't know their history ;::===~ 
are doomed to repeat it." · child, patching up the conilil:ts of our feuding relatives. Yet, we still battle the infighting of our own demons inside. That is our unique history, 
Odd it is that we so quickly claim inherent superiority to those who came before us (by virtue of time. we say.) Better diets. superior technology, ergo: better us?! Yet, at the same time. we rationalize immorality by saying "get with it, it's the '70s! ... the '80s1 ... the '90s," as if growing more immoral by decades is a pre-destined Christian fate, We worship the vain beauty of our young adults, yet disdain the wisdom of our elders. Is this evolu­tion? No. Maybe it's reality, though ... you know, that writing on the wall we don't want to read? Ahh, the good ol' days, eh mate! 
My first day at 21 felt no different than my last day at 20. Really, how much distinction then can come bPtween 1999 and Y2K'? Yes, a new day brings the enthusiasm of new expecta­tions, but WHY will we be better in the, er, 2000s ... simply because it follows the 1900s? 
The danger of the dawn is the amnesia it spawns. We admire the ready rays of sun and conclude that our day can be run sans guard. "Captain, no need for sentries, no need for walls! It's tomorrow, after all!" We forget that the lion is only yonder, or that the wolf too has had time to rest from the run. So much for the sun. Don't drop the sword! We must still march on. 
Sure, it will seem odd fighting for civil and human rights in a new millennium. But.just as in DuBois' day. the writing is indePd on the wall and we must rnsist the temptation to whisk it under a rug. The light did not end with Dr. King. Every day of this "final year," African American males have been stopped by police for "lookjng suspicious," drugs and AIDS have ravaged our neighborhoods. even while many African Americans (DuBois' so-called 
No doubt. once we reach Y2K, -¦¦¦-:--'=-==---==:::!II. "talented tenth") still do not know why they any year that began with a digit are in school, nor who died to pave the other than the number two will be way for it! considered ancient history. Even _________ While we rejoice in the promise of a new 
the youngest of us will soon be !!!!~~~~~~~~ millennium, what credible programs are in shocked by exclamations like: "You place to make the year 2016 any different were born in the 1900s!? Dang, than 17 years ago when I started at Notre you're old!" We'll immediately start to Dame? The writing on the wall tells me that, wax on about the good old days. There in the year 2016, most Americans will still fear will be a tendency to leave anything !!!!1!!111::!Jlillll...lll•••~r Black males; police will have sophisticated patrol reflective of the 20th century in the 20th ......... AJi •~ cars, but still stop people on the basis of race; the century. That may be our temptation regarding -~:lJ(I~~~ race card will be played in elections; glass ceilings will 
race relations as well, but we cannot simply sweep our sordid racial past under a carpet as if it didn't happen. 
Like cosmic relay runners, the Y2Kers will look to us for the 20th century baton. What will we pass on to them'! What kind of time portals will we be? Will we be imperfect windows to the past for those to come? Perhaps it depends on how honest we want to be. 
For example, what are the good ol' days? 1901. when George White. a Negro, was in Congress. or the 28 years it would take to get the next one in? The Harlem Renaissance of the 1920s or, that same period, when 60-80 "recorded" lynchings occurred per year? The generation that cheered Brown vs. Topeka Board of Education, or the next one that jeered the unchecked growth of gangs and drugs in the still-segregated schools of its chi!­dren? The days of African Americans at prestigious universities like Notre Dame or those when they were dragged to death from pick-up trucks while the beneficiaries of "blue-blood" affir­mative action systematically kept African Americans from board rooms, coaching ranks and TV sit-corns? · 
How honest, indeed. · 
Without knowing the stony road trod by my forefathers, I wouldn't fully appreciate the oppressed: African American, Jew, Pole, Irish, Italian, Native American or Chinese. I am a free, educated, African American male, a homeowner, with two cars and a garage, during a period of relative peace and economic prosperity. I am the dream of generations who died without ever seeing me. Yet, am I worthy of that dream if I forget their struggles? Foggy window that I am, what ifmy children, through me, cannot see history! Then, Dr. King ... whose dream am I? 
We are the only superpower with great diversity. Surely, it isn't coincidence that a nation of diversity values a United Nations, with its peace-keeping response to world conflicts. After all, nowadays, where on earth could a conflict erupt with­out somehow touching brethren in America? We arc the middle 
TEACH ME TO BE 
AN ENGINEER. . I DON'T CARE IF IT TAKE$ All DAY. 

SCOTT ADAMS 
BUT DON'T TELL 
ANYONE i THEY'LL 
ALL TR'( TO GET IN ON THIS SCAM. 
still exist and, sadly, Notre Dame will still be 3 percent African American (or lower, if we lose affirmative action). 
Hope is important, but the hope of the present is brought more from a growing economy than anything else. Come a downturn, and we're back to finger-pointing. Vigilance, discus­sion and education are important, to eradicate ignorance and truly change attitudes. However, fair laws with teeth are every bit as important! A better tomorrow won't evolve without better steps today. Ifwe can feel good about anything at the close of this century, let it be because we know better where we are and where we need to go. 
Nearly a century ago, in 1900. James Weldon Johnson and James Rosamond Johnson composed the song, "Lift Every Voice And Sing," now often referred to as the "Black National Anthem." Approaching 2000, we, too, are -as the lyrics say ­"full of the faith that the dark past has taught us." Yes, and there is even "hope that the present has brought us." However, "facing the rising sun of our new day begun," let us not walk blindly into the light of ignorance. 
Rest assured, the problem of the 21st century will, again. be the color line. DuBois' words still ring as sharply as any bugle reveille. This time, let the generations heed his message. So, let us march on with our ark before us, filled with wisdom gleaned from the wall writings of our elders and ancestors. Let us bring history's mistake-filled baton to our children, and grandchil­dren. and great-grandchildren. Most importantly, let's use our collective pasts to teach our younger generations how and why to look across the color line ... into the eyes of friendship. Then, and only then, will true victory be won, for all. 
March on! 

Mel Tardy '86, ·90, is arz academic advisor fur the First Year ofStudies. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"/ am the inferior ofany man whose rights I trample under foot. Men are not superior by reason ofthe accidents ofrace or color. They are .~uperior who have the best heart ­the best brain." 
Robert Green Ingersoll 
Author 


VIEWPOINT 
O
THE Wednesday, Octoher 27, 1999 BSERVER page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
University short-changes Saint Mary's Maynooth Program 
I haw karned that Notrn Dame stud<mls on scholarship may no longer use their scholar­ship moiwy lo pay l'or their year abroad at Urn National Lniversily of' lreland-Maynoolh. TIH\ apparent. 1·naso11'? Saint Mary's runs tlrn Maynooth program. am! Notrr. Dame has ii own program i11 lrPland -at University College Dublin and Trinity College Dublin. 
I ahlwr Sttl'h a dHcision. Saint Mary's Collego students and its Maynooth program coordina­tor havn. for somP two decadns. openml llwir arms to dozHns of' Notre Dame students·. Now it appt\ars ll1al Notro Dame has returned Lhe al'foclion -with a slap. 
Of cours,1. sonw Notrn Damo pnncil pusher will argue that transferring scholarship money to Saint Mary's ch)('sn't makn sense wlwn Notro Dame now has its own program in Ireland.. Sun-it cloHs, ii' llw stmlt,nts want to study in a big city and not pass up thn chance to spend a full Y"llr in a program that could transform thnir lives. 
Paul McGinn 

hmnder, Notre Dame Cluh of Ireland 
Ocwber 16, 1999 

--------•-=-========================================== 
Library gets skimped 
.Just imagirw how grnally all of Notrn Danw would benefit if the Univnrsity invested as 111ud1 in the rmwvatio11 of the library as in the renovation of the main building. Instead the library has bmm allotted a paltry $8 million. This seems particularly incongruous from a uni­versity that in rm:1,nt ynars has bmm striving so hard to become one of tlrn top research insti­tutions iu Uw wuntry. All ol' the groat univnrsitim, have outstanding libraries. Notre Dame IWP<ls to invnst in onP loo. 
Elizabeth Van Jacob 
Adjunct Reference Librarian 
Hc,burgh Library 
October 19, 1999 

"Grab and Go" is 
lunchroom larceny 

Snwral times a wnek, I find myself in a bind. Either I have no time to eat lunch because my hladrnrs assign/force me to do far too much homfiwork to even think about piddling around in the fivn-star eatery that I call South Dining llall, or my class schedule, due to my crappy IJJ\HT limo, does not permit me to beat the 2 p.m. gate closing at the mess hall. 
So, tn compnnsat,i for my inability lo enjoy a line lukewarm meal oil the first t1oor of the Silt I, I (clreadfullyl walk down the steps to the so-called "Grab & Go" center located in the musty hascmenl. You know what, I don't think that I can even bring myself to refer to that systc-m as simply,"Crab & Go;" instead, a more litting name may be "Walk-in, Pick-up bag, U.se elaboraln mathnmatical equations to figure out just what combinations of stale & day­old goodies can lw liigally taken, Get strip-searched. Got yelled at for having 3 milks and too many ketchup packnts ,". GO." I l'eel cheated and violated nvery single time I !eave that cor­rupt arna locatml in llrn bowels of the SDI!. 
II' I wern Lo get my card swiped upstairs, I would have the right to eat as much greasy, rnheatPd food as I want ... no limits ... as l()ng as I dou't tako more than one item out the door, lm,t I get held at gunpoint to "give up the second cookie." Why punish me for my crap­py schedule or !Jusy day? Why if I go downstairs tu that level of Dante's Inferno do I have to g,it a fingnr choppnd off for each item uver tivo that I place in my bag? l am a growing boy. I twee! more than onn sandwich sometimes to satisfy my hunger. I don't know how many tinws l'vp lward, "You can't take a sala<l and a sandwich." Give me a break, let me try to 1!at hnalthy ... don't pl'rsecute me for actually trying to salvage a well-rounded meal. 
IJon't gd nw wrong. I'm not lobbying for a "Grab & Go" that will b1! a chaotic mess where all the schoolchildren are given lunch sacks and allowed lo just go to town. I'm simply sug­gnsting to modify that extremely difficult to follow scientific m(Hhod that. decides the.fate of all "Grab & Goers" out there. l mean, yogurt is not worth 2 items. We pay $27,000 a year to go llf'n:i, and tlrnsc people are trying to tell me thut if l get 1 yogurt, I only get 3 other items. Civn mn a break. Let's up Lhc stakes to 7 items por person ... that will allow for: 2 milks (or puny juicn boxes) p<\r person, 2 sandwiches (or sandwich and salad), one salty treat, one. swcHI. tn,at and one pince of fruit. !low hard is that? This method will also leave room for mrrncting errors in choosing a turkey sandwich that is too slimy to eat, or a banana that is battnred and bruised beyond rncognition ... with more items, we'd have back-ups allowing us to still somewhat relieve our hunger. So please, please nice "Grab & Go" ladies, punish not if wn havo too many items, rather ask if wn have enough. 
Chris Mudd Junior Dillon Hall October 29, I 999 

Be thankful for opportunity for education 

College was always the next step for me. Ever since rwas little I knew rwould go. It was essential. It was expncted. It was normal. I had no choice. Now, don't get me wrong, rnever did not want to go to college. It was just a concept I grew up with, like Catholicism, or knowing that I would always be the youngest child in my family. ! simply accepted it. 
So it began at Saint Mary's College in Notre Dame, Ind. Freshmen year, okay. My room­mate became one of my best friends. Nothing too eventful that year. Sophomore year. Cool. I developed my core group of girl­friends. Nothing out of the ordi­nary. Made some guy friends too. Alright. Junior year, not bad. llad my first single room in college and it was the best academic year of my life. But other then that things were pretty quiet. ThBse were the important issues in my life. These were stages and at the time, cru­cial. Yeah, I took some pretty cool classes at Notre Dame. And Saint Mary's being ranked number one for so long was pretty terrific. But, honestly, I didn't really care. I was in school, like every other normal American kid. 
Wrong. We are not normal. We are not the majority. We are not the general public and we are most certainly not average. Wo am here because of talent. The talent that some institution of higher learning wants to use. It is an exchange. The school uses us for whatever we brihg to the table and we use the school for a future job that pays well and are hopefully happy in. When was tho last time you told someone you appreciated it? When was the last time you really did appreciate it? 
Less than a quarter ofAmerica's population is college educated. Less than a quarter! In this coun­try. AmMica! tand of the free. home of the brave. 
The brave father, with his elo­quent voice and elegant style, who used his retirement money to send 
..,. .. 
_ 
---­
• 

his daughter out cast to a nation­ally ranked number one college. The brave mother, with hor mas­ters degree, who washed black­boards to pay for part of her own elementary school education. The brave grandmother, who's face lights up the entire church when someone asks her for the 100th time what colleges her two grand­babies attend. The war veteran grandfather who always says "you can become rich and limn you can lose everything, but no one can take away your degree." 
·We have become so used to com­plaining about what we do not have and have bncome so immune to people telling us how lucky we are. Them is a reason why God put each and every one of us lrnre. There is a reason why we were accepted into Saint Mary's College and the young woman down the street was IH)t. There is a reason why Notre Dame's application process is so extensive. Because not just anybody can be a Domer. Not jusl anybody can bo a SMCer. You are not just anybody. You just got lucky. 
For a moment, put aside the complaints. Put aside all of Urn frustrations. Put aside all the "crap" that you have to deal with daily and l.hi11k about the one per­son who would do anything to b,1 where we ,1ro today. Think about Lhe person who do1~s not have a meal plan or docs not even know whero his next meal is coming from. Think about the person who probably deserved lo be here more than anybody, but just couldn't make it work. Think about the person who never set foot in a col­lege classroom. Think about how easy that person could have been you and how easy you could have been them. 
Kimmi Martin 
Senior 

LcMans Hall Ocotber 19, 1999 

O
THf 

page 14 BSERVER Wednesday, October 27, 1999 

The cast of "Felicity" is now in its second season, having established itself as one the WB's most popular young person's drama. 
TV ANALYSIS 
Teense 
• With returning shows like "Dawson's Creek" and "Felicity," and new shows "Roswell" and "Popular," teens continue to love the WB 
By TRICIA McHALE Scene Television Writer 
The dominant trend in television today is the development of programs that are geared toward younger viewers. This movement has been going for several years, with each sea­son having to deal with this target audience de-aging. 
It was not very long ago when sitcoms and dramas were family-centered and similarly written for mature audiences. Then, the main characters in newer television shows became simply newlyweds, married without children, as in "Mad About You." The next logical step after this phenomenon faded was to write singles-centered programming like "Friends." 
While this final phase is still prevalent, another trend is taking off. More and more dramas and sitcoms are being written for and about teenagers. And while the other networks were busy ripping off "Friends," the fledgling WB network, when it was com­ing into existence a few years ago, latched onto the concept of targeting the young and generally forgotten audience. 
This season the network continues this tra­dition, while also recognizing the importance of the 20-something demographic, by main­taining old programming and introducing new shows that are written for adolescents. From previous years, various popular sit­coms and dramas are returning. , 
"Dawson's Creek" enters its third season. These New England kids are getting older and wiser, since, after all, they are juniors now. This year, the usual crew consisting of a reconciled Dawson and Joey, Pacey and Jen, join last year's recruits, Andi and Jack, and try to survive high school. This is actual­ly quite a feat, considering that Capeside High is probably the most exhaustingly eventful secondary institution in the history of television, with the possible exception of West Beverly, the "90210" kids' alma mater. 
In an attempt to capitalize on the proven success of "Dawson's Creek," the WB net­work is introducing another high school drama that follows the same general formula of teen angst. "Popular" is about two rivals who are thrown together because their 
NIELSEN RATINGS 

Photo courtesy of NBC "ER" came in at the No. 1 spot in the Nielsens, followed by Major League Baseball, "Frasier" and "Friends." 


TV Show 

1. 
ER 

2. 
NBC Baseball Playoff, Game 6: NY Mets at Atlanta 

3. 
Frasier 


3. Friends 
3. NBC World Series, Game 2: NY Yankees at Atlanta 
6. 
NBC World Series, Game 1: NY Yankees at Atlanta 

7. 
Touched by an Angel 

8. 
CBS Sunday Movie: The Soul Collector 

9. 
Stark Raving Mad 10. 60 Minutes 

10. 
NFL Monday Night Football: Dallas at NY Giants 


d of Oct. I 8-24 
Rating  # of homes  
20.1  20.3 million  
15.4  15. 5 million  
15.0  15.1 million  
15.0  15.1 million  
15.0  15.1 million  
14.2  14.3 million  
13. 1  13.2 million  
12.4  12. 5 million  
12. 3  12.4 million  
12. 1  12.2 million  
12. 1  12.2 million  


T E N 
Wednesday, October 27, 1999 page 15
O
THE 
BSERVER 

brace WB's offer 
n•spPctiv1• siugle-parcnts are seeing car,11 otll!'r. Ther<'f'or1', the popular Brooke is l'ilrl'.l'd lo spnak with inwllectual underdog Sam -what a chon•. 
"F1'1icily," perhaps because she is on a 1ww night. also rnturns with a new haircut and a 1ww outlook on life. Using I.he insight slw gai,rnd during freshman year, Felicity is now displ'nsing advice through her HJ\ rlul.i11s. Shn is moving on with hnr life, drop­ping lwr prn-11wd major tn cnncentrate on art. Sim is also looking for love, now thal sltn has lwgun to smooth things over with Noni, who no longur dntests her, and bas officially mov,id avvay from Ben, though the lwo wcrn YPry on-again-off-again in the first two Ppisodns of tlw snnson. , 
ThP 11Plwork is also milking its "Buffy thl' Va m p i r " S I a y t\ r " a u d iP n c e by c r c a ti II g "/\ngnl." t.h,· spin-off about the new lifo of Buffy's v11mpin1-lovnr. /\11g11i moves to Los ,\11gnl11s, wlwrn ho fights demons. Ile is aidi>d hy C:ord11lia, thn l'ormer Sunnydale rns­id<' ll L who is now trying to make it in llollywood as a1i actress, and now l'ricrnd, !Joyln. his liaison with tlrn supnrnatural. 
BPca11S1! th1! show is dev11loped by the samP produc,·rs as "Buffy," il has Lim sanrn fot>I of f'ant1tsy and humor as dons its pnid.i­

t'.PSsor. 
Photo courtesy of the WB
SpPaking of whir.h, Buffy, now sans tlrn 
James Van Der Beek stars as mature teen
lovP of' lwr li!'P and l111r l'or1rn1r si<lnkick, con-
Dawson Leary on "Dawson's Creek." 
1intws to l'ight nvil in Sunnydale and attends coll1•gp nearhy so slw can stay near tlrn hell­moutl1 and save• the world whiln trying to ing that the central characters do have maintain a dnc:c•nt Gl'J\. about eight or nine years or experience on 
On Wt•drwsdays, thn WB offers a look at the "Creek" kids. sl'icn1cP lktion from a tne1rngnr's pnrspe·ctive The most generally-targeted new show to with "Hoswc!]l." Max, his sister and a friend comn from the network is "Safe Harbor." It art• orpha1H'd aliPns, strand11d on narth since follows in the footsteps of "7th Ileaven," and lht· inl'amous 1947 Boswell crash of a space­other familv dramas. ;\ widowed father of ship. IJ1dng an Pxtrn-Lerrestrial ran Im hard three, his ~other and a runaway teen all 1•11011gh, but tlws1i kids also have to deal with live together on beachfront property in suspicious citiz1ms, and Max, in particular, Florida. This is basically as far as the con­must dPal with his ill-fated attraction lo cept goes, leaving the writing to include var­ParI h girl Liz. ious general topics for however long this 
Tht• prnviously m1•11tiorn'd shows are def'i­show lasts. nil.nly, though not exclusively, geared toward From the looks of it, the \'VB plans to IPP11ag1!rs. llowPv,1r. th<1 network d(ws also monopolize the teenage viewing audience pay liomagl' tn tl11! post-collegci-agPd single for the time being. Though, for their sake, 
pnrson in ".lark and Jill." this latest trend better not die quickly. If 
This hour-long drama is about two young that is the case, that leaves the network with p,:opl1• trying to mabi it in i\Jew York City as an entire lineup of moot programming. tlwy lry lo juggll' t"art!1·rs and rnlationships. However, considering the presence and Tl11• show is a littl<• morn mature than the inflll(mcc of' teenage television viewers, that 
"Dawson's CrnPk"-typn program, consider-will not like happen any time soon. 

AP ENTERTAINMENT BRIEFS 

Photo courtesy of 20th Century Fox 
Brad Pitt, star of "Fight Club" is the subject of some contro­versial photos taken by Rolling Stone. 
Rolling Stone sweats over Pitt's drag pie 
LOS ANGELES 
Rolling Stone is suing a news syndication agency for disseminat­ing photos of Brad Pitt in a drnss from the magazine's October mli­tion. 
The magazine filed suit last week in U.S. District Court accusing the agency of' infringing on the copyright of photographer Mark Seliger and the magazine's publisher. 
The magazine gave the agency limited permission to "use the images of' Brad Pitt accompanying the feature article ... so long as .,; they are used within the context of the magazine," according to the lawsuit. 
"They've cropped out all of the references to !lolling Stone and the photographer," Kelli Sager, Rolling Stone's attorney, said Monday. 
Mike Parker, co-director of Headline News lA and a defendant in the lawsuit, denied that his organization misrepresented itself and said the company has told its sub-agents to stop selling the materi­al. 
Pitt, who posed for the humorous shots in dresses to accompany a profile entitled "The Unbearable Bradness of Being," is not named as a plaintiff 
Dr. Death's seed failed in procreation 
LONDON 
Results of a paternity test reveal professional wrestler Steve Williams -aka "Dr. Death" -is not the father of' a child he has been ordered to support by a federal court. 
DNA results of the paternity test released Monday state there's a "O percent" probability that that Williams fathered a child in Oklahoma. The child is now living with its mother in California. 
Williams, who has lived in Benton, La., since 1982, denied father­ing the child. Nevertheless, a grand jury in Sacramento, Calif.. charged him with a felony non-support. 
He was facing up to two years in prison, a $250,000 line and pay­ment of support owed. 
Oprah runs to raise funds 
MILWAUKEE Wearing No. 974, Oprah Winfrey was the center of' attention at a fund-raising run for breast cancer research. "I try to pick the flattest places to run," joked Winfrey, who cov­ered the 3.1 mile course Sunday in about 35 minutes. 'Tm out of shape, so it felt hard," she said. "But you l'eel so good when it's over." 
Winfrey, a former Milwaukee resident, tried to redirect some of' the attention onto women who wore µink hats that indicatml they arc breast cancer survivors. 
Winfrey cited the en.so of Judy Pickot.t of Milwaukmi, a survivor of breast cancer who has accomplished a goal of' making il t.o all 98 of the Races for the Cure that have been held around Urn nation. 
Leo buys Hollywood Hills house 
NEW YOHK 
The star of "The Beach" is heading for tho hills. 
Leonardo DiCaprio spent $3 million on a 5,000-square-foot house in the llollywood Hills, the Los Angeles Times reportnd Sunday, cit­ing sources it didn't identify. The gated, contemporary-style homn has three bodrooms, three fireplaces, four bathrooms, a pool and a spa. DiCaprio's latest movie, about backpackers in Thailand. is due out later this year. 
r 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, October 27, l 999 
WORLD SERIES 
Braves on verge of elimination after blowing lead 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Everything was going accord­ing to plan for the Atlanta Braves to make this a competi­tive World Series. 
Suddenly, it all fell apart. 
Now, the Braves find them.­selves all but buried in a 3-0 hole, as the New York Yankees rallied from a 5-1 deficit to beat Atlanta 6-5 on Chad Curtis' 10th-inning homer Tuesday night. 
One more loss, and the Braves get to spend another offseason trying to figure out how they came up short once again in the 
fragile health. The left-hander was supposed to start Game 1, but wound up watching from bed with a debilitating case of stomach flu. 
The bug knocked seven pounds off Glavine's slender frame, and he was still a few pounds short of his normal weight when he walked to the mound three days later than expected. At least some of the color had returned to his face, a ghastly shade of pale just a day earlier. 
Earlier in the day. Cox exprnssed confidence that Gia vine. could come through with seven solid innings. The left-hander did, walking to the 
postseason, a dugout at that
"This is a tough loss. We
decade of 
prescribed

excellence were going to get back in 
moment with a impaired by this thing." 5-3 lead. 
only one 
UnfortunatelyWorld Series for the Braves,
Bobby Cox
title. 
Cox sent 

"This· is a Braves manager 
Glavine back to 


tu ugh loss,"' 
manager 
Bobby Cox said. "We wei:._e 
going to gel back in this thing." 
Most of the night, the Braves were following the perfect script to put a roadblock in front of tho Yankees' seemingly unstoppable run to another championship. 
After a lost weekend at Turner Field, in which Atlanta managed only seven hits and three runs in two dreary losses, the Braves spent their off day 
-,., taking some extra batting prac­tice at Yankee Stadium. It paid off. Every starter had at least one hit, including three straight doubles by Bret Boone, who just happened to be one of three plaJers benched for Game 2 in a futile attempt to jumpstart the offense. The Braves were patient ­often working the count to three balls -and made a cun­centrated effort to hit to the opposite field. By the fourth inning, they had knocked out New York starter Andy Pettitte. At the end, they had five runs and 14 hits. Tom Glavine. meanwhile, produced an effort belying his 
CLASSIFIEDS 
SPECIAL 
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center PHONE 631-COPY 
www.CopyShopND.com Store Hours Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm Sat: Noon-6:00pm Sun: Noon-Midnight 
LOST & FOUND 
Found on Howard Street, 1-2 years ago, 1 damaged grey slide carousel with religious arVsites slides from Europe/Israel,+ personal pictures. 
Contact me at 284-5552. 
WANTED 
Browse icpt.com for Springbreak "2000". ALL destinations offered. Trip Participants.Student Orgs & Campus Sales Reps wanted Fabulous parties.hotels & prices. 
Call Inter-Campus 800-327-6013 
the mound for 

the eighth. Two batters later, the two-run cush­ion was gone, wiped out by Joe Girardi's single and Chuck Knoblauch's two-run homer that barely cleared the wall and deflected off the glove of leaping right-fielder Brian Jordan. 
Considering Glavine's fragile health and Tino Martinez's solo homer in the seventh, the deci­sion by Cox was surprising to say the least. 
In the end, it probably cost the Braves any chance to rally in this Series. 
Two innings later, Curtis put the Braves out of their misery with his second homer of the game, a mammoth shot into the Atlanta bullpen on the third pitch from reliever Mike Remlinger. 
Curtis was carried off on the shoulders of his teammates, while the Braves trudged off the field with Frank Sinatra's rendition of "New York, New York" and chants of "Sweep! Sweep! Sweep!" ringing in their ears. 
This wasn't part of the plan. 
...ACT NOW!CALL FOR THE BEST SPRING BREAK 
PRICES!SOUTH PADRE.CAN-FOR RENT 
CUN,JAMAICA,BAHAMAS,ACA­PULCO,FLORIDA & MARDI ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE GRAS.REPS NEEDED ... TRAVEL HOME FOR FREE.EARN $$$.DISCOUNTS ND-SMC EVENTS. FOR6+. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS 800-838-8203 243-0658. WWW.LEISURETOURS.COM 
THAT PRETTY PLACE, FREE TRIPS AND CASH!I! Bed and Breakfast Inn has space SPRING BREAK 2000 available for footbalVparent wknds. 
5 Rooms with private baths, $80­StudentCity.com is looking for $115, Middlebury, 30 miles from Highly Motivated Students to pro-campus. Toll Road Exit #107, 1­mote Spring Break 2000! 800-418-9487. Organize a small group and travel FREE!!Top campus NICE FURNISHED HOMES FOR reps can earn a Free Trip & over NOW OR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR $1 D,000!Choose Cancun, 2773097 STUDENTS WANTED! Alum owned 2 sty. 5bdrm 2bath new car­pet, kit. appl., security, furnace, roof. Huge yd., 1 blk. N. of club 23. $1125/ inc. utilities. -also 4/5 bdrm 2 blks from campus $800. for more info call 289-4365. 
FOR SALE 

Spring Break Specials!Bahamas Party Cruise 5 Days $279! Includes Meals! Awesome Beaches,Nightlife!Cancun & Jamaica 7 Nights From $399! Florida $129!springbreaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 
Jamaica or Nassau! Book Trips On-Line. HOUSES HOUSES HOUSES FOR SALE Log In and win FREE stuff. N.D. FOOTBALL TIX Sign Up Now On Line! DOMUS PROPERTIES HAVE CALL 271-9412 www.StudentCity.com or AVAILABLE 5,6,7,8 & 10-BDRM 800/293-1443 HOUSES FOR THE FOR SALE 
'00-01 SCHOOL YEAR.ONLY 15 N.D. FOOTBALL TIX Loving ND-SMC couple wishes to LEFT. CALL CALL 271-9412 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All clmifieds must be prepaid. The charge is.~ cents per character per day, including all space,. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
SELL & BUY GA FOOTBALL TICK- High-Speed Copies,  
ETS  Color Copies, Binding,  
277-6619  Fax Service, R?csum?cs,  
Business Cards, Laminating,  
FOR SALE  & a whole lot more  
Navy & BC tix  Best Prices  at  
AM -232-2378  THE COPY SHOP  
PM -288-2726  LaFortune Student Center  
Phone 631-COPY  
ND football tix for sale.  Free Pick-Up & Delivery!  
AM • 232-2378  

PM • 288·2726 

Spring Break 2000 Free Trips & BUYING and SELLING N D FOOT-Meals. BALL TICKETS. Jamaica,Cancun,Bahamas,Barbad GREAT PRICES. CALL 289-8048 os,Florida.Padre.Book now for Free 
Meals & 2 Free Trips.Book before FOR SALE Dec. 17 for LOWER PRICES!! N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS 1800-426-771 0 CALL 271-9412 www.sunsplashtours.com 
WANTED: 4 Tenn. Tix hey er, 312-951-5008 whats going on kiddo? 
i miss you 

Tenn/BC/Pitt tix 6073367218 lalalaLALALA 
ND student needs Navy tickets for friends! Please call Vince 243-9361 Funky GOURDS 
adopt.Will provide a lifetime of 274-1501 OR 234-2436, ASK FOR laughter,love,devotion and opportu-KRAMER FOR SHOWING. Three for a dollar!! nities. Fun imaginative shapes ....... 
TICKETS PERSONAL
800-484-4699 code 0019 4-6 student rental houses. Lots of Vegas 4-eva!!!! 
To our 4am inquirer: all info kept in extras. Huge Party Room. WANTED NOTRE DAME FOOT-Gay, Lesbian and Bisexual 
total confidence Please call back Washer/Dryer, etc. BALL TICKETS students of ND/SMC meeting each 
anytime.Our prayers are with you. Thurs. For info call: are you still reading this? 
Dave 291-2209. call 271-1526 (877)631 ·6OUT well stop' 
Wednesday, October 27, 1999 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
page 17 


Generating sparks isn't always easy in consulting. But while other firms lean on jaded, static ways of thinking, Arthur Andersen Business Consulting has assumed the role of industry dynamo. Working with us, you'll create you own buzz, assisting clients in making wise decisions across an entire spectrum of business opportunity. 
Arthur Andersen Business Consulting helps people tackle the most complex business and financial issues on a regular basis. And when you're here, you'll earn your place among the elite. In today's business world, there are more reasons than ever to join Arthur Andersen. 
ARTHUR ANDERSEN 
Business Consulting 
Thursday, October 28th, 7:00p.m. Business Consulting Information Session IR/PS Gardner Room (next to the IR/PS Auditorium) 
For more information, visit www.arthurandersen.com Arthur Andersen LLP is an equal opportunity employer. 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, October 27, 1999 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Selig: Rose won't be back in baseball 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

The fans have spoken. and Bud Selig says it makes no difference: Pete Hose isn't coming back to baseball, not as lung as he's commission­er. 
Selig was in the stands Sunday night and heard the 55-second ovation for the banned career hits leader, the longest ovation for any of the 30 members of the All­Century team. 
"That certainly can't int1u­c ncc your decision,'' Selig said Tuesday night before Game 3 of the World Series. "In life, you have to do what you think is right -as Bart did, as other commissioners did .... You can't be gov­erned by what you think 'X' number of people feel." 
Following an investigation of Rose's gambling 10 years ago, the Cincinnati Reds manager agreed to a lifetime ban from baseball. 
Rose applied for reinstate­ment in September 1997, but Selig has not yet made a for­mal ruling. 
Still, Selig hasn't hidden his feelings on the matter, saying he's seen no new evi­dence. 
"The Bart Giamatti deci­sion was very clear and very lucid on all points." Selig said. ''I've made my feelings well known over the past year." 
As long as Rose remains on the permanently banned list, he is ineligible for the Hall of Fame ballot. 
Selig said he sees no rea­son for a compromise deci­sion in w'hich Rose could enter the Hall but still remain banned from base­ball. 
"These kind of situations in life really don't call for a middle grounds decision," Selig said. 
Selig said he didn't second­guess himself for inviting Hose to participate in tho ceremony with the other 17 living members of the team, but he didn't want to get into the debate on Jim Gray's controversial interview with Rose on NBC after the cere­mony. 
"We're always better off when the focus· of the game is on the field, not on us,» Selig said. "But no one ever said life is simple, and this proves that." 
"After viewing the video­tape, I can understand the reaction of many baseball fans," Gray said before NBC's telecast of Game 3 of the World Series on Tuesday night. "I thought that it was important to ask Pete Rose if this was the right moment for him to make an apology. 
"If in doing so, the inter­view went on too long and took out some of the joy of the occasion, then I want to say to baseball fans every­where that I'm very sorry about this." 
Please recycle The Observer 

FALL tlHt[il 113 

W A i H I N i 1 8 J M I l L 
VOLLEYBALL 
Belles post 3-2 mark over break 
By KATIE McVOY 
Sports Writer 
The Saint l\1ary's volleyball team increased its record to 14­11 and 3-3 in the MIAA confer­ence last week. 
The Belles faced Kalamazoo College, Beloit College, and played in the Carthage College Tournament, finishing with a record of 3-2 for the week. 
Saint Mary's dropped the match to Kalamazoo College 3-1 _ 
"The game against Kalamazoo was an important one;" senior Agnes Bill said. "It was a con­ference game that would help determine whethAr WA wArn in third of fourth place in the con­ference." 
The Belles are currently in fourth place in the MlAA follow­ing the close match with Kalamazoo. 
"Even though we lost. all the games wern VAry close," Bill said. 
After five days off, Saint Mary's returned to the court ready to play, defeating Beloit College 3-0. 
"After coming back from fall break we played pretty well," Bill said. "It was a good game for us to get used to playing togeth­er again." 
The big news for the Belles came during the tournament at Carthage College. Freshman Emily Nihill was named out­standing player by the coaches of all six teams participating in the tournament. She led the Belles defensively with 39 digs. 
Saint Mary's dropped its first match of the tournament to Carthage, but came back to beat Mt. Mary and Concordia in the "We showed that we could following games. In order to win stay focused and that will help those games, however, the us in the conference tourna­Belles had to adjust their playing ment," Suzanne Martin added. style. Bill led the offense with 46 

"The teams weren't very kills. Jayne Ozbolt and Jolie 
strong," Bill said. "It was a big LeBeau assisted Nihill on adjustment for us. The other defense with 14 and 13 blocks, teams had a lot of tip and roll respectively. 
shots and we had to work as a The Belles play their last regu­team in order to adjust to that 1ar season game tonight at style of playing." Defiance College at 6:30 p.m. 
----------------------------------, 
The Nanovic Institute for European Studies University ofNotre Dame 
presents two lectures by 
William Pfaff 
Paris, France 
Monday, November 1 4:30pm 129 DeBartolo Hall "Globalization, Nationalism and the Nation State" 
Wednesday, November 3 7pm Hesburgh Library Auditorium ''European-American Relations in the Post Cold War Era" 
William Pfaff, the internationally renowned journalist, is the author or coauthor of six books, including the Wrath of Nations: Civilization and the Furies of Nationalism and Barbarian Sentiments. Barbarian Sentiments, was a National Book Award nominee in 1989 and won the City of Geneva's prestigious Prix Jean-Jacques Rousseau. He writes a political column for The International Herald Tribune in Paris, where he lives,· which is syndicated by the 
I 

1 I Los Angeles Times. His "Reflections" on politics and history frequently I appeared in The New Yorker between 1971 and 1992.
I I 

1 I 
I 

I I 
I

I I 
I I 
I I I
I

L----------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
-------------------~ ·­
page 19
Wednesday, Ocrober 27, 1999 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Ree.< yvz~ ­
<£~~-.-.. StudentAward 
RecSports 11 Champion Student Award" recipients are selected by the Office of Recreational Sports. Honorees are chosen for their involvement in RecSports, including excellence in sportsmanship, leadership and participation. 

Bridget Purdue is a first year Arts & Letters major from Lexington, Kentucky. Bridget is involved in a variety of fitness activities including the Knockout Workout, AeroStep and Yoga. She uses fitness as a tool to stay fit as well as manage the stress of college life. Bridget's regular participation in fitness 
-and physical activity has led to interest in becoming a fitness instructor and will participate in the RecSports Fitness Instructor Training Course. Purdue is also a member of the Howard IH volleyball team and regularly practices her climbing skills at the Rockne climbing wall. 
Recipients receiv·e <£-~ merchandise from the 
A& 
VARSITY SHOP 
... 
"Specializing in Authentic Notre Dame Sportswear" 
(Joyce Center) 
~e:­
/<_ee,...._~
...... "t>"' z 
www.nd.edu/--recsport 

alt It. 
VARSITY SHOP 
'I•' 

"Specializing in Authentic Notre Dame Sportswear" 

Look for this award to appear in the Observer every other Wednesday. Students selected receive (£,~ ,.....1.--.-......L_.:. ..It. ..&_ 
merchandise courtesy of \..&.--r---n,...-1---·~ and the v;ar.-with two locations in the Joyce Center. The V·T·O· is open Monday-Saturday 9:00am to 5:00pm and Sunday 12:00pm to 4:00pm. (Phone: 631-8560). 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, October 27, 1999 
PGA 

Investigators seek answers in Stewart plane crash 
Associated Press 

MINA, S.D. 
Investigators began gathering the remains of golfer Payne Stewart and five others from the area around a 10-foot-dcep crater in a soggy pasture Tuesday, hoping to determine whether a sudden loss in cabin pressure doomed their Learjet. 
Dressed in heavy overalls against a cold wind, members of the National Transportation Safety Board spent all day at the South Dakota crash site, picking through the wreckage not onlv for the victims but for identifiable pieces of the shat­tcrnd aircr'af't. 
lnvestigalors caulioned that there will be no quick explana­tion for why no one was con­scious at the controls for four hours Monday, when the jet flew 1,400 miles across the country before running out of fuel and slamming nose-first into the ground. 
The plane had no flight data recorder that ('ould yield infor­mation on the aircraft and its performance. 
It had a cockpit voice recorder, but it consisted of a 30-minute loop that usually records over itself. And Stewart and the others on the plane presumably were already unconscious or dead by the last half-hour of the flight. The cockpit recorder had not been found as of Tuesday night. 
Most or the plane's debris is embedded in mud and soil with­in a 10-foot-deep, 30-foot-wide 
Tour championship cancels Friday play 
Associated Press 

HOUSTON 
Whv even bother? 

The Tour Championship is supposed to be a fantastic fin­ish to the PGA Tour season. It almost always decides the money leader, 
stopped to watch aplayer of the year, "As far as golf is 
highlight reel of 
and winner of the concerned, it real­Stewart that wasVardon Trophy for 
ly takes a seat on shown on the
the lowest scoring Jumbotron. 

average. the back burner. " 
"I haven't really
David Duval once 

thought about thereferred to it as a 
Phil Mickelson tournament this 
party. The perks for the top 30 on

-the money list include the chance to win $900,000 with a small field to beat. There is no suspense this year. Tiger Woods is a lock to win every award that matters. There is no celebration at Champions Golf Club, not wilhout the man whom Tum Kite referrf'd to as the "life of the party." For one day this week. there will be no Tour Championship. The PGA Tour derided to cancel competition on Friday because of tho memorial service in Orlando, Fla., for Pavne Stewart, the 
U.S. Open cl~ampion who was among those killed in a freak plane crash Monday. 
Perhaps there should be no Tour Championship at all. The way 22 players carried on like zombies, perhaps the tour should just divvy up the $5 million and call it a week. 
Flowers were placed in the parking spot with Stewart's name on it. Tour officials are making black ribbons for everyone to wear. 
Phil Mickelson was on the driving range late Tuesday afternoon when he 
week," Mickelson 
said. Until Monday, 
he was pointing toward the Tour Championship as one of two last chances to keep alive his streak of winning at least once on tour every year since 1993. 
"As far as gulf is concerned, it reallv takes a seat on the bar.k burner." 
David Duval won the Tour Championship at Champions two years ago. What would another victory mean this week? 
"I don't know," he said. "l really don·t know. The feel­ings will probably not be as great as they might have bePn." 
He may find out. 

The Tour Championship will start with 27 holes on Thursday, the first time a score over 100 could be enough to lead after the first "round." 
crater. said Bob Francis, vice chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board. 
"It looks like the aircraft was pretty much vertical when it hit the ground," he said. "The ground is soft, and it went in fairly deep. It's going to be a challenge, with the wreckage and sorting out whal's there." 
Investigators searched around the edge of the crater on Tuesday and plan to search inside it on Wednesdav. 
They were sending tissue samples from the victims tu a medical examiner's lab to test for sucb substances as carbon monoxide. 
But Brad Randall, a state medical examiner, said toxicol­ogy tests may be worthless in attempting to verify one possi­ble theory for the accident ­that the victims suffered oxygen deprivation bl1cause of a sud­den decompression of the air­craft. 
Planes that l1y above 12,000 feet are pressurized because the air does not contain enough oxygen fur people to breathe comfortably. If a plane loses pressure at high altitude, those aboard cnuld slowly lose con­sciousness or, if an aircraft broke a door or window seal, perish in seconds from lack of oxygen. 
If a plane loses cabin pres­sure, pilots arc supposed to put on oxygen masks and quickly descend to 12,000 feet or lower. There was no evidence suggest­ing the pilots of Stewart's jet made any effort to do so, but Francis declined to speculate what that could mean. Orlando, Fla. Fighter pilots who 
On Monday, air traffic con­chased after the plane were trollers were unable to raise unable to see into the Learjet anyone aboard the plane by because its windows were frost­radio soon after it took off from ed over, indicating the tempera-

Today! Don"t miss it! Fieldhouse Mall.. 4 -6pm 
e
rain: LaFortune Ballroom.. 5 · 7pm www.nd.edu/-sub 
Travel to exotic, distant lands; meet interesting, unusualpeople ... 
And love them. 
Catholic Worker Urban Plunge 
January 2.·8, 2.000 
J 

St,end S davt at a Catholic Worker Houte of Hospita(itv ar,,:J fir,r,J out what i+ l\,eans to Hve +he gost,e(s. 
Sites include Des Moines, Detroit, Phoenix, Los Angeles, Washington DC, and Houston. Applications, available in the Center for Social Concerns, are due by October 29th• 
ture inside was well below freezing. 
Francis confirmed that the crew of one of the fighter jets made a videotape of the Learjet. 
-
( 
Wednesday, October 27, l 999 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 . 
Fox 
continued from page 28 
llm Trojans· faco for th11 
third quartnr in a row. 
The min saw what the wind was doing and real­izl'd it was good, so it just started to nmpty itst>II' over llw stadium. seC'mingly. as .laekson later notPd, every limn USC had thn ball. 
Trnjan quartnrback Miki' Van Haaphorsl came into tlin third quarter rnnlizing that his offnnsn basically had done whatnvnr it want,•d against the Notni Dame dnl'!lrnrn in Lho first hall'. 
1.Nl by Hon lsnwl's pm·­fnctly-tinwd blitz anrl f'orcPd f'u111bl1\ Ull(I Dnke 
(~001wr·s intPn'. . •p1ion, thn 
Irish d1!1'1•ns1i rPalizccl that 110 onn was going to 
rnmomlrnr what happnn('(I 
lmck in tlw first hall' 
With a fourth quarl!\r driv<i stalll'd at Ih<' Trojan 15-yurd lint>, tit,, <:rowel got restlPss as tlw Irish kicking unil came 011 to tlw linkl -a group Notrn l)anw foithf'ul havn r.ome 
to doubt dun to past pcr­l'ormancos. 
Aft<H" all. sophomore kicker David Miller, mak­ing his lirst start, had alroady missed his lirst carnnr litdd goal att1impl earli<)I' that day wlmn the W(iallwr still rnsnmblod a Southern California ul'tor­noo11. 
Thal appanmtly didn't matter as tlw ball llew througli the uprights and slarnnrnd into the nnt with 
8:07 to go in Lim fourth. 
As the rain continued to drive down. Jackson told his rccnivcrs that they didn't need lo worry about him getting the ball there. It would get thero: they just had to catch it. 
That's when tight end .Jabari llolloway decided to throw out what every­one knows about big tight ends and make a fully­ext"ndP.d lingP.r tip grab with wet hands to sustain the game-winning drive. 
And when Jackson took off on a second-down scramhli• from the USC 18. seeing all his rccoivers covered, wove his way inside the !;-yard line. and then had the ball knocked loosn at the USC goal line, the Trojans, and just about everyone watching or listening, tlrnught they had done it to the Irish again. 
1lnlloway and Jackson 
didn't. tl1<,ugh. 
The fif'Lh-ycar snuior quarterback said he didn't know how the ball got knockt1d !nose, onlv that. at the bottom of tl1at piln, whilfl the USC alumni started lo say their "I told 
you so's" and Urn Men of 
Troy started to celebrate, he watched the ball pass from his hands into those of his trusted junior tight end. 
Ile knnw all along. They all knew all along. 
Maybe you still can see Touchdown Jesus from that end zone after all. 
The views in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

KEVIN DALUM/The Observer Notre Dame tight end Dan O'Leary looks upfield after making a catch In Notre Dame's 25-24 win over Southern California on Oct. 16. 

~til,! Dot sure6r... ib~o, eome to ,D 

;:, 

It>te>m~t;i(')D ~~~~ie>t>l 
-at the Center for Social Concerns-
Wednesday, October 27, 
9:00 PM 
Questions? Call Jay Caponigro, 631-5293. 


Wednesday, October 27, 1999
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS 
WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
Belles place third at Yellow Jacket Invite 
By MOLLY MCVOY Assiscanr Srorrs Editor 
Saint Mary's ran its way to a third-place finish at the Yellow Jacket Invitational at Defiance College last Saturday. 
"It was a great team race," head coach Dave Barstis said. "It was a difficult, billy course but thev ran extrnmelv well as 
a pack.;, · The most important outcome of the meet may not be Saint Mary's third-place finish, but the fact that it placed higher than Defiance College. Defiance is a member of the MIAA and this is thu first time Saint Mary's has defeated a ('onference team this season. .. ,twas good that we beat the one conference team that 
was there," junior Genevieve Yavello said. "That points us in a good direction for the 
championships." 
Spring Arbor College won the meet, with Mississippi College coming in second place, ahead of Saint Mary's. 
"That was the toughest 
course we've run," Yavello­
said. "We also had some 
injuries. So, under the circum­
stances, we ran very well." 

Yavello was the Belles' top finisher, coming in 14th place with a time of 21 minutes. 45 seconds. Krista Hildebrand and Melissa Miller finished in 15th and 16Lh behind Yavello with times of :.:!1 :54 and 22:08 respectively. The Belles now look to their last race of Lhe season. the MIAA champi­onships on Oct. 30. 
This will be the first time all of Saint Mary's runners will have the opportunity to i:un together this season against conference teams. At least one of their top runners has been injured or absent at the previ­ous conference meets the Belles have run in. 
Barstis is excited about the prospect of seeing all of his team run together at the championships·. 
"Everyone appears healthy so it looks like we can finally run the top 7 in the same race," he said. 
Last season, Saint Mary's finished fifth in the champi­onships. The Belles are look­ing to improve on their con­ference standing this season as they head into this week­end. 
"We are really hoping to 
improve on our finishes this 
weekend," Yavello said. 
STUDENT SAVINGS Certificate 
Please send me ESPN The Magazine at the special student rate 
of 26 issues for $13. (Wow, that's only 50 cents an issue!) 
Name_________________ 
Address ________________ 
City________State ___Zip,___ 
ESPN The Magazine P.O. Box 37328 
S9JBMA
Boone, IA 50037-0328 
• 

0 0 

WEDNESDAY NIGHT HALLOWEEN PARTY 
Prizes Specials Giue-Aways All Night Long 

< 7 
' 
.
I 
Wednesday, October 27, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 .I 
l 
l I
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Miami's Kelly may be sidelined for West Virginia game 
Associa1cd Press 
C0H/\L GABI.ES. Fla. 

Miami quarterback Kenny Kelly, who lcid the 2:lrd-ranknd llurricaniis to 31 second-half points and a dramatic, come-from-behind victory over Boston College last weekend, might be sidelined for Saturday's game againsl West Virginia. 
Kelly had a hard cast placed on bis sprained left ankle Sunday and is not expected to practice until later this week. 
"It'll be an ongoing thing through the course of the week," Hurricanes coach Butch 0avis said Tuesday. "He's sore and he's tender. He's probably 

0 
w 
z 
0 
.,..1­
t:, 



KRUDER & DORFMEISTIR Peace Orchestra 

' We also buy and 
sell used CDs. 
We pay cash. 
See manager or 
MEDlhPLAV® 
associate in the music deportment for details. " 
Your Entertainment Superstore 
For the store nearest you, call toll-free 1-888-60-MEDIA. Now online at www.MediaPlay.com ca'S:::8.'e~~~t~ 
Sole end, November 6, 1999. Product selec~on and pricing mny vary online. 81-87.tS-109 
going to be very limited, partic­ularly during the early part of the week, and then we'll make some kind of assessment later em in the week as he starts to move around." 
Kelly said the cast, which he anticipated having removed Wednesday, was only precau­tionary and he definitely will play. 
"It's just a little sprain and I should be all right for this weekend," Kelly said. "I am playing. It's not that serious where I can't play. The doctors just want to be safo." 
Kelly, a sophomore from Tampa, is coming off the best two games of his career. He was 27-of-41 for 370 yards and three touchdowns in a loss to top-ranked Florida State on Oct. 9. 
Then he was 20-ot'-36 for 218 yards and three TDs against the Eagles. lie led the Hurricanes (3-3) to three touchdowns in a span of about 13 minutes en route to the biggest comeback in school history. 

Kelly sprained his ankle on the second play of the game­winning drive, when Boston College's Chris Hovan sacked him. 
"My ankle got caught in the turf and one of' tho d-linomen kind of twisted my ankle up under the pile," Kelly said. "I think it was purposely, but that's part of football. I'm pret­ty sure our defensive linemen do that too. 
"It was a lot of pain. but I was going to do whatever it took to win that game. Even if I would have broken my ankle, I wouldn't have came out. We needed that game." 
If Kelly does not play against the Mountaineers, Davis said freshman Ken Dorsey would start. Dorsey has played in just one game, mop-up duty in Miami's 57-3 rout of Florida i\&M, and was 4-of-12 for 44 yards with a touchdown. 
NFL 

Young appears headed for injured reserve list 
ical opm10n has been reaf­
Associated Press " 
firmed in consultations with other specialists.
SANTA CLARA, Calif. 

Young continues to speak
Steve Young appears headed 

with some of his contempo­
for the injured reserve list 

raries who were forced out ofbecause of persistent post-con­the game by repeated concu,s­cussion symptoms, a move that sions, including
would finish his Al Toon and 

season and could 

'Tm determined Merrill !loge.
signal the end of his 

He's also gath­
career. he not risk 
ering more 
No formal deci­anything more 
medical advice
sion has been made 

this year. " and may see 
yet, but the agent another special­

for the San ist this week but 

Francisco 49ers Leigh Steinberg 
Mariucci and 
quarterback said 

Young's agent general manag­
Tuesday he doesn't intend to let Young play again this year and apparently the team and Young's doctors feel the same way. 
'Tm determined he not risk anything more this year," Leigh Steinberg said in an interview with San Francisco's KCBS radio. "He's probably going to end up on injured reserve. This is a football injury. He was hurt on the field and that's where those players go. 
"But the news is not encour­aging. It's not real cheery. Obviously, to show symptoms this many weeks later is not a positive sign." 
Young, :38, is expected to dis­cuss his condition and status with the team on Wednesday in a meeting with the media. It's his first such meeting in two weeks since word surfaced that his primary neurologist, Dr. Gary Steinberg, who is unrelated to thr, agent, had made a long-term recommen­dation about whether Young should play again. 
"I think he'll be able to clear some things up. be a little more definitive," coach Steve Mariucci said. "ls anything drastic going to happen? No." 
While Dr. Steinberg's opinion hasn't been disclosed, Young has conceded the report was "discouraging" and his agnnt has said that the initial med-

er Bill Walsh 
have botb said 
that they would 
give greatest weight to Dr. Steinberg's conclusions and they are in no hurry to see Young back on the field. 
The concern with Young is he could be at risk for perma­nent brain damage from another concussion. 
Mariucci said Monday that the team, which has a bye this week, hopes to resolve Young's status in the next week or two and said injured reserve was a possibility. It would allow Young an extended period away from football while not totally shutting tlw door on his eventual return. 
Though Young has not rnceived nwdical clearance to play and has no real hope of getting it any time soon. he remains optimistic that his concussion symptoms will eventually clnar, lnaving at least a possibility he could return next season. 
Leigh Steinberg said there would Im no decision or announcement on the possibili­ty of Young's n~tirement until after the season but added that Young also will abide by the final medical consensus. 
"Nothing is going to happen in the way of retirement this season," Leigh Steinberg said. "lie will come to the right deci­sion but this will take a little time." 
r 
! 
page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, October 27, 1999 
... 
Series 
continued from page 28 
against John Smoltz. 
No team in baseball history has overcome an 0-3 deficit in postseason play. The Yankees are trying to win their third World 
"It would have been York's first home
Series in four 
run of the Series,

years, a streak nice to have won 
a solo shot with

that began when 
tonight. It would two outs in the
they beat 
have gotten us going fifth. Martinn
Atlanta in 1996. 
made it 5-3 with

Mariano real good. This was a 
a solo drive in the

Ri\•era, Mr. 
big one to lose." seventh, and
Automatic in 
Glavine dropped

Octobflr, pitched 
his head in dis­

two innings for Bobby Cox 
gust.

the victory. He Atlanta manager 
Joe Girardi

has not allowed a run in his last 41 2/3 innings, and has a postseason streak of 24 1/3 scoreless innings. 
While the Braves lost their seventh straight Series game, the Yankees moved within one victory of tying the longest win­ning streak ever. The record was set by their Murderers' Row teams or 1927, 1928 and 1932. 
Up until the Yankees turned from singles hitters into the Bronx Bombers, the Braves were in control. 
"It would have been nice to have won tonight," Cox said. "It would have gotten us going real good. This was a big one to lose tonight." 
Glavine. scratched from his Game 1 start because of tlrn !lu, fortified himself with a plate of ravioli and pitched like a two­time Cy Young Award winner. And Atlanta looked every bit like the team that led the majors
" 
with 103 wins. 
Bret Boone hit three doubles in the first four innings against Andy Pettitte and and every Braves batter had a hit by the fiftq. By then, it was 5-1 and the sellout crowd of 56,794 was boo­ing the home team. 
Boone could been seen hud­dling in the dugout with batting coach Don Baylor, checking out what appeared to be hitting charts. During Monday's work­out. Baylor held an extended session of batting practice and stressed patience at the plate and emphasized hitting to the opposite field. 
It all worked in the early going for a team that hit .121 in the first two games. 
Then, though. the Yankees flexed their muscles. 
Curtis hit the 11th game-end­ing homer in the Series history, and fifth in extra innings. It also was the Yankees' second such shot in this postseason -Bernie Williams did it to Boston in Game 1 of the AL Championship Series. 
The Series win was the 11th in a row for manager Joe Torre, breaking the record set by Joe McCarthy of the Yankees. 
New York won in its 200th World Series game -the Yankees are 120-79-1 overall, with the St. Louis Cardinals' total of 96 games ranking sec­
ond. 
Curtis hit New 
opened the eighth 

with a single and Knoblauch followed with a high drive to right field . .Jordan jumped at the wall and the ball bounced out of his glove and into the stands for a tying·horne run. 
"I knew I hit it pretty good, "Curtis said. "Jordan, who's a great outfielder. jumped and I prayed, 'Come on.' l got a brnak." 
Last October, Knoblauch struck for a tying, three-run homer in the seventh inning of Game 1 against San Diego's Donne Wall. 
"We got beat with a pop to right field."Cox said. 
Knoblauch's homer brought John Rocker running from the bullpen. and Derek Jeter promptly singled. Paul O'Neill tried to sacrifice, but popped it up and then commilted a more costly mistake. 
With O'Neill standing al the plate and shaking his head in anger, the Braves let the ball drop and turned a double play. 
Boone became the first player to hit three doubles in a Series game since Junior Gilliam for 
· Brooklyn in 1953. Frank lsbell hit a record four for the Chicago White Sox in 1906. Gerald Williams led off the game by reaching out and _flar­ing a single to right field and Boone also went the opposite way, doubling off the wall in right. Chipper Jones. followed with a grounder that third baseman Scott Brosius bobbled, giving him no chance at the plate and leaving him only with a play at first as Williams scored. The Yankees needed just live pitches to tie it. Knoblauch opened with a liner that popped loose from Jordan's outstretched glove for a two-base error. He moved up on Jeter's fly ball and scored on O'Neill's single. While Glavine settled down quickly, Pettitte never got into a groove. 
THE CUSHWACENTER 
FOR THE STUDY OF AMERICAN CATHOLICISM 
drL
7JF 


"The Possibilities lor a 

WORLD SERIES 
Curtis leads Yanks to victory 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

As the ball sailed into the Atlanta Braves' hullpPn, Chad Curtis pumped bolh fists into the air. And then he did it again. 
Then came a high-five from coach Jose Cardenal at first base, and another from Willie Randolph at third. 
Ile was flying around the bases, taking the jog of his life. 
"It was special," Curtis said Tuesday night after his 10th­inning home run off Mike Remlinger gave the Yankees a 6-5 win and a 3-0 World Series lead. "I don't think -in fact, I know -I've never hit a walk­off home run. I've heard people talk about tingling. I've never felt that before -the electrici­ty running through my legs." 
.Last October, he sat and stewed during the ,Series against San Diego, never set­ting foot on the field during any game. 
"It was very frustrating," 
Curtis said Tuesday. "I played r------------------------­

152 games. that's 152 out of 162." While the Yankees celebrat­ed their sweep, he hurt. 
"I felt morn like I was con­gra tu latin g my teammates than celebrating with them," he said. 
Then he sat again for Game 1 against Atlanta. 
And Game 2. 

But there he was Tuesday night, hitting the first World Series walk-off homer since Toronto's Joe Carter took Mitch Williams deep in Game 6 in 1993 to win the Series. 
And what about that fifth­inning homer off Tom Glavine, comeback? That was an old memory by now. 
"I hadn't expected this kind of production," Yankees man­ager Joe Torre said. 
All the other Yankees are well-known: Jeter and Williams, Knoblauch and O'Neill, Martinez and Brosius, Davis and Girardi. 
But Curtis? 

He was supposed to lose his job to Darryl Strawberry. 
Or to Shane Spencer. 
Or to Ricky Ledee. 

Or to Tony Tarasco. 
But when it was time to lead 
off the 10th inning, Curtis was there. 
"It's always somebody you don't expect," Braves manager Bobby Cox said. 
Cox had remembered watch­ing Curtis before the game. 
"I was really amazed." Cox said, "when he stood by the other players. how short he is." 
Now Curtis, all 5-foot-10 of him, is standing tall. 
No matter what else hap­pens, he has that moment, a replay that will be shown over and over in Yankee Stadium. 
"I hit it for my !,'Tandma," he said, still on the fi<~ld with the game-winning ball, "but I got to give it to my 2-month-old son." 
Remlinger had just come in. and throughout the ballpark, thern was the foeling the win was there for the taking. John Rock.er had pitched his two innings, and the rest of the Braves' bullpen scares mainly their own fans. · 
Curtis fouled off the first pitch, then took a ball. 
And then came the drive. 
Left fielder Gerald Williams knew after two steps. 
"I have a tendency in these situations to try and hit a home run," Curtis said. "So, I went up there and tried to hit a liner up the middle, and I hit a homer." 
Funny how that happens. 
Wednesday, October 27, 1999 
HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY CARMEN! 
Love, 

Mom& Dad 
the one that made it 5-2 and 
started the Yankees on their------------------------..J 
Visit the Writing 

Afraid you'll go Center blank? 
The Notre Dame Writing Center 
is dedicated to helping all students improve their writing. Writing tutors h~lp student~With writing projects at any sta9.e during the writing process. From unde_rstand1ng the assignment, to organizing materials, to critiquing that "final" draft, we are here to guide you through the process. 
In helping you improve your papers, we will read your paper with you, talk about your ideas, and offer informed comments. We're available to help no matt.er what stage of the process you are at, whether selecting a topic, shaping your argument, working with sources, figunng out 
your audience, or revising your paper. 
Because our goal is to help you le~.rn how to improve your own writing: we do not proof_read, edit, or fix your grammar. But we will help teach you how to do these things, and work with you on any other concerns you may have. We do not evaluate, grade, or take the place of regular coursework. We are a resource for helping you to express your ideas more clearly and 
effectively. 

Locations Times 
Alumni Hall Sun-Thurs 7-IO p.m. Knott Hall 
Sun-Thurs 7-I0p.m. 

Center for Social Mon, Weds, Thurs Concerns 7-10 p.m. DeBartolo BO 12 Mon-Thurs 1-4 p.m. (basement) 
Visit us on the web at: http://www.nd.edu/~writing Visit us before you get overwhelmed! 


Wednesday, October 27, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Irish look to extend win streak against Big Ten 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Assndace Spores Fdirnr 
/\l'!Pr cupping off a pnrfecl Big l·:ast :-wason with a 7-1 vic­tory ovHr Miami on Sunday, the NolrP Dame• wonwn's socc1!r ltiam Lrm,,~Is to Big T1111 country 
t.o lakP on thP Hudg<1rs of Wisronsin torlay at fi p m. 
Notrc\ Damn has a :n game winning-streak against the Big Tnn dating llack to a I1)89 loss to Michigan Slaln 011 Supt. 22. Tlw Irish havn also tak~ll nirw slraiglit l'rom thci BadgNs since tlrny lost in 1<J81J lil opnn thu I 0-ganw SPrif'S bntWl'Pn Lfw 1wo schools. 
Tlw Irish an• IPd by a trio of rc\rord ,wtlinv; play1irs in Jenny 'itrPif'for, fonny lln!'I. and Anne 
\faki1wn. 
Strr· i f'/'c r lH·c,LrIH' just tlw fourth playc\r in NCAA history to n•,·ord 60 goals and Ml assists in a can•(ir with a hat trick against tlrn 11 urricantis. StrPiff,ir's f,2 goals and 65 assists giVI' her 189 points for hP r c a n• n r . _j us t on n po in t lwhin<l Monica Gt!rardo for the all-ti11J1• Irish points leader. IldL's hat trick 1.-d lo hnr being IHLl!H'd llig !last offnnsive play­Pr ofthn W!\f'k. 
llf'ft scornd hi)r 74th career g-oal on Friday to surpass C1•rarclo as tlw all-timn lnading goal srorPr in Irish histury. IIPf't also snt the rncord for goals in a season I <JIJ8 with tlw 28. 
Makirwn has scon•d a point in 11 straight games for the Irish. Makinen tied the Irish record for consocutive games with a point with a point against Miami. With a point against Wisconsin, Makinen would surpass teammates Strniffer, Mnotis Erikson and former Irish All-American llolly Manthei for tho Irish record. 
Thc Irish will need all their record setters to perform well against a strong Badger dcl'ensn led by freshman goal­kenper Kelly Conway. Conway has made nine saves in thl' last two games -both tough 1-0 losses fur Wisconsin. Conway has compilod a 0. 77 goals against average in her first col­lt,gi,itc season, 
The Irish have a top goal­kooper of their own in senior LaK1>ysia Hccnn. Beene is a pr1!scH1s011 All-American and has been named a finalist for the Missouri Athletic Club play­or uf the vcar award. Beene has com piled a 1.15 goals against averngc and a .722 save percentage so far in 1999. 
Bmrne has a solid defense in l'ront of' her as well. Senior dcfondcr was named Big East de!'nnsive player of the week f'or her play against the lluskies and the Hurricanes last weekend. 
Senior All-American and pre­season Big East defensive play­er of Lim year Jen Grubb, junior captain Kelly Lindsey and f'rnshman Vanessa Pruzinsky < round out tlrn back line for the Irish. 

s 

Multi Topping Pizza $7.77 Single Topping Pizza $6.97 Cheese Pizza $5.97 
Plain Breadsticks $2.37 l/2 Order $1.27 
:Mozzarella Brcadsticks $3.27 1/2 Order Sl.77 
Mozzarella Brcadsticks with I Topping $3.77 1/2 Order $1.97 
COMBO l, Pizza., Mozzarella Brcadsticks, and a 2 Liter Bottle of Col{e $10.77 
COMBO 2, 2 Pizzas, Mozza1rella llreadsticli.s., 
FO 

and a 2 Liter Hottle of (~oke $17.77 


-r 
r t 
page 26 The Obsm1er . SPORTS Wednesday, October 27, 1999 
TRIATHLON 
Worcester, Mass. 
grade. She earned her eligibility 
... 

ATTENTION 
UNDERGRADUATE AND GRADUATE 
STUDENTS 
WORLDWIDE 

ENTER.COM 
PURSUE JOB 

AND INTERNSHIP 
OPPORTUNITIES 
THAT SPAN THE GLOBE 

. 
'i mpusCareerCenter.com 
~-. The world~ largest campus job fair 

i'Jc;tllin'4 l>t'.,1ts uur hit!,,_iuicy Douhk: Chccsl'!1ur~cr. It's got the ~re;1t ti~t,' ot flaml' hr01l111g ;rnJ ha,-7_;;L\, 1m ,re beef than /\kl )(ln;dd':< C'.hcc·•d)urgcr 


;the.rtt/ltm$ re~i;;ing .uote ••· . . other t,:ams receiving votes: 
~OTRE. DM!E 199, Stanford 67, Utah ~g;: Utah 79, Oklahoma 68, Mississippi 65, Sna!;llie".s1; Minnesota 47, Arkansas 25;'( Arkansas 59, Minnestoa 21, Maryland 19, Ullnots 10, Clemson 3, Louisiana Tech. 3, NOTRE DAME 18, Virginia 14, Kentucky 7, Miirylatid3, A1r Force 2, Oregon 2, Colorado St. 3, Rice 2, Air Force 1, Arizona Washingii.in 1 1, Boston College 1, Clemson 1, Oregon 1, 
Western Mieh 1 

Davie 
ESPN~~S.;;Today Poll 
continued from page 28 
Of Oklahoma's first three wins of the season, only Louisville (5-3) has a winning record. In their first game of the season, Oklahoma beat Division 1-AA Indiana State. Indiana State is currently 2-5 in the Gatewav conference. Baylor, who Oklahom·a beat 41-10 for their· second win sits at 1-6 going into Saturday's game at Kansas State. 
'Tm not picking on Oklahoma," Davie said. "lam just using them as an example. We all know this system is not infallible." 
The Irish faithful can sympathize with Davie. Through the years, the Irish have seen first-hand the contradiction of the polls. 
The most noticeable discrepancy occurred at the end of the 1993 season. An 11-1 Notre Dame team was denied a national championship by Florida State. The 12-1 Seminoles had lost 31-24 to Lhe Irish in the "Game of the Centurv" on Nov. 
13. The Irish lost to Boston College a week later but rebounded with a 24-21 victory over Texas A&M in the Cotton Bowl. 
• In the meantime, top-ranked Florida State beat second-ranked NPbraska on a last second field goal. But less than two months after losing to Notre Dame, Bobby Rowden's team was awarded the national title. 
Four years earlier, in 1989, Miami 111-l on tho season) won the national title over Notre Dame (12-1) based on the Hurricanes 27-10 defeat of the Irish earli­er in the season. 
Though he bas never been denied a national title by the polls, Oavie still believes that the rankings, particularly the ESPN/USA Today coaches poll, are far from perfect. 
"Obviously the coaches are tough on us," Davie said. "We are usually down there on the coaches poll." 
Each week the coaches get a chance to vote in the ESPN/USA Today poll. Though they may never see the teams that they arc ranking play, they still have a major say in determining the eventual national champion_ 
Davie believes that because of the coaches' r.ommitment to their own teams. their pvaluation of other teams is flawed. 
"Let's face it, on Saturday night [when they vote for the poll], coaches at best will just get the score of the games [of other teamsJ," Davie said. "And so much is just based on won-loss records and who wrm and who lost. It is tough enough to evalu­ate your own team -how good you are :_ without trying to evaluate someone else's team. It's a tough process." 
In order to move up in the polls. Davie has a simple plan for the rest" of the sea­son: Win every game. 
"[t will all equal out at the end," Davie said. "If you play well and win, you will end up climbing your way back up. The reality is when you lose games early, you arc fighting an uphill fight lo gel back in it. I still think we have a chance of climb­ing up [the polls]." 
<3 4 s 
6 
7 
B 
9 
10 
11 
12 
.fa 
'.14. 
15 16 17 
18 
19 20 21 22 23 24 25 
..• ···•·· ~,nn$~at,J1.&) . ·· Vlrpi?I~ te~h;{~ .· Tenn.esi.ee :.;;> · 
Florida .i.ih,W;.-,. 
Kansas State Georgia Tech 
Mississippi St 
Nebraska Georgia Wisconsin 
Texai 
.Marii~au 
Michigan BYU Alabama East Carolina TexasA&M So Mississippi fllichigan St. Ohio SI. 

Purdue Miami (Fla.) Syracuse Stanford 
record· 
8-0 
B•O 6-0 
5•1 6-1 7-0 5-1 7-0 6-1 6-1 6-2 6-2 7-0 
5-2 
6-1 5-2 6-1 
5-2 
5-2 6·2 5-3 5-3 3.3 5-2 5-2 

If our delicious, flame-broiled
Hildebrandt qualifies 
double cheeseburger were any bigger, we'd need to buy more ad space.
for World Grunes 
for the World's competition by
Special to The Observer 
placing in the top 12 at the National Olympic Distance
Gretchen Hildebrandt, sports Championshipsinformation director for Saint 


in St. Joseph,Mary's College, has qualified for 
Mo.

the World Games to be held in 
Hildebrandt
Perth, Australia in April 2000. 
recently joined While in Australia, she will be 
the athletic
competing in the Triathlon World 
staff at Saint
Championships where she must Mary's after a
complete a course which position as
includes swimming 1.5K, cycling 
women's and
40K and running l OK. 
Hildebrandt men's assis-
Hildbrandt is a graduate of 

tant swim
Bucknell University in coach at the
Lewisburg, Pa., and has been a College of the Holy Cross incompetitive swimmer since third 
Wednesday, October 27, 1999 The Observer . TODAY page 27 
TOM KEELEY
FOURTH AND INCHES 
ERJL;roE ~ "l-'LL SE ~E.O71::> R.~ '(OVf.. O\J!,J'(-fAGI:. 
~ \\IIPl'Y / _../ 
BILL AMEND
Fox TROT 
WHERE'S JASoN?  HE AND MAA<vS Rot>E l\.lE1R 811<ES OVER To THE GRoCERY STORE.  THEIR Btl<ES?'! \  SoMElrllNG wRoN(, Wlli·l ll-lAT? " ~ \  HOW CAN TliEY I DIDN'T BRtN& GRoCERtES SAY HOME TI-IAT WA'f r 'THE"( I WERE &UY1NG ANYTr11NC.  OK, !T LookS L•l<E CAN 'tt)I..I MRS. OEFALCo'S BEltEVE L0At>1N6 up ON SOME !<IDS MINI SNICKERS ACTUALLY ANO SMART1ES. TRtck-oR• TREAT AT  
I  I  .  --.r»-&,.......r.,,r;,.  DoM?  
~==  

A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD JEFF BEAM 
.•• THAT'' LL 
01...LAR NINE:fy fA$1::. 

Though popular, the "Peter Warrick Sale" at the bookstore wasn't very profitable. 
beam.1@nd.edu 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS  36  The Donald's  
,  False "handle"  first ex  
6  Tag along  37  Engine sounds  
10  Window­ 40  Middle of the  
14  Freetown  question  
currency unit  41  Splits apart  
15 1& 11 1s 1& 20  Western Samoa's capital Go in the water just a little way _ good faith Carry on Confess openly Start of a  42 43 45 46 48 s1  Square (with) Doctrines Top off Odd-shaped figure Sports surprises Rarer than rare  
question  s2  Nouveau  
23  Found a new  54  End of the  
tenant for  question  
24  "What's more  (Rearrange the  
circled letters  
25  Arid expanse  for the answer)  
26  Wood furniture  e1  N.Y.S.E.  
worker  competitor  
32  Bio bit  &2  Seaside bird  
33  "Animal House"  63  Alamogordo's  
house  county  

ANSW
ER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE B A s s E A T E --+--.--1---1 
o R A w S A 


64 In the 50's or 60's, say 65 "I did it!" 68 Unearthly e1 Hoover hookup 68 Charon's river es "Oui" and "sr 
DOWN 
1 What there oughta be 2 Poland's 
Walesa 3 Scintilla 4 "Peer Gynt" 
dancer 5 Fax originator & diem 1 Eyeball benders e Tiny car 
e  Bothers  
incessantly  
10  Graceful pool  
entrance  
11  Moneyed one  
12  Meaning of wavy lines, in  
the comics  Puzzle by Thomas W. Schier  
13  Seats with  :io  ''This  
kneelers  foolishness  
must  once!"  
31  Coarse tools  
22 21 25  Studio sign ~~~ay's patronSee-through  34  Completely botch  
26 21  wrap Suffix on bygone nightclub names "Sunset Boulevard" Tony winner George  35 38 39 44  Fool Differential gear's spot George of "Just Shoot Me" So great  
26  Florist's cutting  47  Wise kids?  
29  "Eraserhead"  49  "Rats!"  
star Jack  so  Soft seat  

52  Lecherous  57  Part of Q.E.D.  
53  Mountaineer's  sa  Half a matched  
tool  set  
54  Dash gauge  se  Put-in-Bay's  
ss  Melville novel  lake  
se  Boardroom  60  Fictitious  
V.I.P.'s  Richard et al.  

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS 
DAY: Fred DeCordova, Dylan Thomas, Peter Firth, Jayne Kennedy, Simon LeBon, Lee Greenwood, John Geese 
Happy Birthday: You'll have what it takes to move into position this year. Your sincere approach to every­thing you do will lead you into part­nerships that are in your best interest. Your decisive action will bring you respect, admiration and the kind of support you need. Give yourself a pat on the back; you deserve it. Your numbers: 3, 15, 20, 29, 35, 44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You willbe in the mood to make improve­ments in your environment. Take a look at your facilities at home and fig­ure out ways to make things better. Get the whole family to pitch in and help.0000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 
Doing things with large groups will lead to romantic adventures. You will find yourself in a passionate relation­ship if you aren't afraid to follow through on your suggestions. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You can make love or war with your mate today. Your flirtatious ways will cause arguments. Concentrate on the one you love, and passion will take over. 
000 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Get out and do things with friends. Be receptive to the advances being made and you'll find yourself in a new love relationship. Creative endeavors will be fruitful and satisfying. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): The demands being made upon you may be too great. You may need to make some concessions in order to meet the responsibilities that you've taken on. You need an outlet for your frustration. 
0000 

EUGENIA LAST 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Socill 
event& will lead to romantic CONll!C­
tions. Don't i?IDP too quicklJC; take your time. If they're really interested, i:hey won't rush you. You can build a solid and loving union if you start with friendship. 00 . 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Co­workers may not be looking out for your best interests. Be aware that someone you work with is trying to take the credit for your hard work. Don't be ta.ken for granted or taken advantage of. 00000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You need to make some new friends. Relationships will be yours if you try your hand at unusual forms of enter­tainment. Your intensity will attract others. 000 
SAGfITARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Difficulties with family members will leave you feeling helpless. You must put your mind on your work. You can accomplish the most if you use your ability to work alongside others. 
000 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
Listen to those offering sound advice regard.in.It your present emotional sit­uation. You may find that career changes are being forced on you. Acceptance will be the key. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Watch your spending habits. You will be in a position to teach what you've learned to others. Your ability to com­municate will help you as long as you control your temper. 0000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You may be questioning your philosophy. Talk to those you respect and do some research on your own that will pro­vide you with a variety of options. Tunes are changing and so are you. 
00 

Birthday Baby: You won't leave any stone unturned. Throughout your life you will research well and have plenty to offer. Your organizational skills and ability to make plans with ease will be a welcome asset to have as you climb the ladder to success. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, aslromate.com.) 101999 Univorsal Press Syndicate 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/
. 

----------------------------------------------------------------~--------­
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name _______________________ 
Address ___________________ City ________ State ____ Zip______ 


Dominance 
Jenny Streiffer and the rest ofthe women's soccer team take on Wisconsin tonight. The Irish will look to make it 38 straight wins over Big 
PORTS 
Ten opponents. 
page 25 
O
THE 

page 28 BSERVER 

FOOTBALL 

Davie baffled by Notre Dame rank in polls 
By TIM CASEY Spom Writer 
Notre Dame can look at its 34-30 victory over Oklahoma on Oct. 2 as the turning point of the season. 
In that game, the Irish came back from a 30-14 deficit with 10 minutes left in the third quarter. A despondent running game was re-established. After committing 14 turnovers in the first four games, the offense responded with an error-free game. 
WORLD SERIES 

Jenious Jackson had the game of his career, throwing for 276 yards and rushing for 107 more on the ground. 
Since that game, the Irish have gone on to record two vic­tories in a row for the first time all year. They stand at 4-3 on the season, with all three games that they lost not being decided until the final drive of the game. The.re's a new sense of confidence among players, coaches and fans. 
But glancing at this week's Associated Press and ESPN/USA Today coaches polls shows Oklahoma rated ahead of Notre Dame. After beating then-10th ranked Texas A&M a week ago, the Sooners vaulted to 24th in the Associated Press poll and 26th in the ESPN/USA Today poll. The Irish are 26th in the Associated Press poll and 32nd in the coaches poll. 
Bob Davie is having trouble comprehending the intricacies of the weekly polls. 
"It shakes you up a little bit when you see someone rated ahead of you that you beat and you are not sure they played quite as tough a schedule," Davie said at Tuesday's press conference. "The way the strength of schedule is comput­ed, it's supposed to be simply on how many wins and losses your opponent has and their opponent has. I don't think that is accurate." 
So far this season, Notre Dame's three losses have come against top 25 teams. When they faced Oklahoma, the Sooners were ranked in both polls. Arizona State and USC are perennial national power­houses. 
sec DAVIE/page 26 
Curtis powers Yankees to 6-5 victory 
.. 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
One to go. 
Chad Curtis hit his second home run leading off the 10th inning and the New York Yankees beat the Atlanta Braves 6-5 Tuesday night to move with­in one victory of another World Series sweep. 
Just when everything seemed to be going Atlanta's way in Game 3, the Yankees still found a way to win. 
Curtis homered in the fifth to begin their comeback from a 5-1 deficit. and homers off Tom Glavine by Tino Martinez and Chuck Knoblauch, the latter off right fielder Brian Jordan's glove in the eighth, tied it. 
Then in the 10th. Curtis sent a 1-1 pitch from Mike Remlinger far over the left-field fence for the Yankees' 11th straight World Series victory. It was the first game-ending homer in the Series since Joe Carter's Game 6 shot won it all for Toronto in 1993. 
"I have a tendency when I get up there in that situation, 1 try to hit a home run," Curtis said. "So I went up there and tried to hit it up the middle and I hit a home run." 
Curtis made his first ever start in the Series and ended up as the hero. 
"Always som?body you don't expect," Atlanla manager Bobby Cox said. "You never know where it's going to come from." 

.... Hoger Clemens, who joined the Yankees this spring in hopes of' winning his tirst World Series ring, gets a chance to close it out in Game 4 Wednesday night 
see SERIES/page 25 


AFP photo 

Yankees' outfielder Chad Curtis is mobbed by his teammates after hitting the game winning home run in the bottom of the 10th of last night's World Series game with Atlanta. The game winner was Curtis' second homer of the game. 
Tradition 
alive in Irish win 
Rivalry. Tradition. The luck of the Irish. Memories of why Notre Dame football is what it is. These wcro all present and accounted for 
on Oct.  
16 when  
the use  Ted Fox  
Trojans  
rolled  
into  Fox Sports ...  
town for  Almost  
their  
71st  

game against the Irish, in a series dating back to 1926. 
Outlined against a blue and sunny October sky, USC built a 21-3 halftime lead, well on their way to their fourth-straight win against the Irish. 
Outlined against a blue­gray October sky, heavy with rain and wind, a half meant for Notre Dame foot­ball, the Irish stormed back and took control, scoring 22 unanswered points on the way to a 25-24 win. 
USC marked this year's game by reminding us that it was the 25th anniversary of its 24-point come-from­behind win against the Irish in '74, a game the Trojans ended up winning 55-24. 
The Blue and Gold instead chose to mark this year's game with a 21­point come-from-behind victory that didn't happen when disco and polyester were still popular. 
By the half', USC was banging on the door of' his­tory, trying to become just the fifth team since 1908 to take four-straight games from Notre Dame. 
As history reached to let them in, Jarious Jackson told him to wait a few hours while he and his teammates went out and played another half of foot­ball. 
History couldn't find USC once the half was over. 
The Irish were driving but still trailed 24-10 at the end of' the third quarter, a quarter where they had the gusting wind at tlwir back. The fourth quarter was going to be USC's turn to seize this advantage from the home team. 
The wind wasn't too happy with this plan, so at the start of the fourth, it decided to turn and blow in 
see FOX/page 21 
•!' 
vs. Navy, vs. Miami vs. Georgetown, Saturday, 1 :30 p.m. 
(I ~. Thursday, 7:05 p.m . ~ Friday, 7:30 p.m. Saint Mary's Cross Country 
SPORTS 

MIM Championships,Cross Country 
at Kalamazoo College ATA Big East Championships, Saine Mary's Volleyball E!I
at Wisconsin, Saturday, 11 a.m. 

at Defiance
Today, 7:30 p.m. at New York Friday, 10 a.m. Today, 6:30 p.m. 
~ E!I
GLANCE • 





