
¦ Critics review "At First Sight" and "Varsity 
¦ Denver Broncos beat Atlanta Falcolns 34-19 to 
Monday
win Superbowl XXXI 11.
Blues." 
FEBRUARY 1, 
Scene• 10-11 
Sports• 13 1999 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Afa,y 's 
VOL XXXII NO. 79 WWW. ND.EDU/-OBSERVER 

Faculty forum shows division on Big Ten 
By TIM LOGAN Associate N,·w, Editor 
Discord and disugreemont characlnriwd Friday's Faculty Smrnte forum on the Big Ten. at which a wid(! rangP of pannlists nnd audinnce nwmbnrs weighed Lhn nwrits of' Notre Dame's polPnlial alliance with the athlot­ic confnrnnce and its academic arm, the C.ommittcre on Institutional Coopnrnlion. 
Whiln thn panelisL'i touched on a variety ol' issues, the propo­rwnL'i of th() alliance listnd poten­tial academic benefits, whilB lhosn in opposition 
· "We can only gain by being asso­ciatod with these programs." /\ number of the nation's top graduate programs are members of thn CIC and many benefits of CIC membership lie in the oppor­tunities for graduate studies and research, according to propo­nents. It is suggtisted that these• potential improvements could help to recruit better faculty, as well. 
"It would immediately improve our profile among graduate and research institutions," said Tony llyder. associate vice president for Graduate Studies. "But it 
largHly spoke of Notre Danie's institutional 

'WE 
CAN ONLY GAIN
idm1tity as an indepen­dent. national. under­
BY BEING ASSOC!­
graduatci-focusml uni­
ATED WITH THESE PRO­
versity. "In tnrms of acadmn­

GRAMS.' 

ic quality, the CIC is unqualif'indly better than the Big East MARK Room 
INotrn Dame's currnnt DEANOFTIIECOLI.EGBOFARTSANDLETTERS 
By CHRISTINE KRALY Assi.s1an1 News Editor 
Qut>stions concnrning thn Big 'l'Pn will Im answnnHI and the fate or Notrn Dame's inclepnndence will b<) rlccidPd when the Board or Trustens meets in London this Friday. Even when questions are answPnHI. though, many students 
coulrl bn lnf't wondnring how this will af'foct tlrnm acade­mically. 
Mnmlrnrship in the Big Ten would allow Notre llamH mnmbership in thn Conl'm·cncn on Institutional Coopnration ICICI. which incluclns I I 13ig Ten univer­si li ns, as wed! as thn University of Chicago and tlrn Univnrsity of' Illinois at Chicago. The CIC offers a numbnr of academic oppor­
tunities which many of' the faculty lind appealing. 
"For academic reasons, I don't think it lmnrnbershipl would hurt Notre Dame," said J\va Preacher, assistant dean of' the College of /\rts and L(1lters. Preacher noted that the library rnsources, espe­cially, would bfl a great bnnclit to ly, it would come bac:k to our l'a.c­ulty." 
However, this focus Oil gradu­ate studios and rnsnar('h has 
some people conccriwd that Notrn Dame's und(\r­graduate program may suffer if the Univnrsity joins tlw CIC and faculty b()come more involved ill 
research. 
"We want to mak(\ sum that the undc\rgrad ua tn program remains strong," said Elizabeth Toonrnv. president of the i\lum;1i Association. She indicaU\d 
athletic conforencel." ~ said Mark Hoche, dean "I can tell you lhat the of tho Collego of Arts and Letters. wouldn't be a quick rix; ultimate-undergraduate student body is 
the University. 

Notre Damn is currently con­nnclecl through thn electronic library catalogue UNL0C. which allows students to acctiss volumes f"rom Hesburgh Library, as well as from Saint Mary's, Bethel Colkgc and Holy Cross College. Through membership in the CIC, this elec­tronic system could be greatly 
that alumni who had contacted lwr 
were strongly opposed to Big Ten m1m1b1irship. 
Another group whid1 has voiced nearlv ovPr­whelming disapp;·oval of the move is th(: 111Hler­graduate student body. which was rcprusnntnd on the panel by studc11t body presidtinL 1'(•L1ir Cesaru. 

DECISIONS IN LONDON 

Editor's Note: On Fri., Feb. 5. the Board of Trustees will meet in London to discuss, among other issues, Notre Dames position on joining the Big Tm and the possibility a/adding the protection of sexual orientation to the University's non-discrimi11t1tio11 cl,1ttse. Throughout the days leading to that meeting, The Ob.,trver will rake a comprehensive look at the history andpeople bel;ind time two tlillfJ as well tlJ possible ramifimtiom of decisions that the bo,zrd might deliver. 
Academics could fuel Big Ten fire 



'J:\)R ACADEMIC REASONS, 
£ I DON'T THINK IT [ MEM­BERSHIP] WOULD HURT NOTRE DAME.' 
AvAPRD\C!IER ASSISTANT DEAN-CVLLHGE OF Am:<, ANIJ LEITERS 
enhanced. 

/\s reported in the Faculty Senate's Fall 1998 report, mem­bership in the CIC would makn it possible f"or us to immediately access the electronic catalogues of' the institutions in the CIC. 
The Univerisity presently has access to the libraries of the CIC 
against ,ioi11i11g tlw Big Ten," he said, pointing lo the nature of Notrn Dame as a Loaching insti­tutim1. "Tlw opportunity to inter­
'ICAN TELL YOU THAT 
expressed 1;oncern that THE UNDERGRADUATE 
the Sonate, which voted 25-4 in December to 
STUDENT BODY IS AGAINST 
support negotiations .JOINING THE BIG TEN.' with the CIC, did not 
act with faculty members is an essential part or Urn Notre Dame cxpn1·ience. This experience is wha1 gives Notrn Damn its nali<rnal rnputation." 
l'vlichael Detlefsen, chair of the Fa!'.ully Sonate, oxprnssod hope that this inlorp1irsonal co111­mu11calion would not he changod by CIC mombnrship. lie proposed requiring all !'acuity to teach unclmgraduates anrl pointed to a rnccnt Faculty SClnatc rnsolution had been consulted, we 
would have found a consensus that the notion of Notre Dame joining the Big Ten is a bad idoa whose time has nnt yet come," said Waitnr Nicgorski, profossor of liberal studies and government. 
While debate focused on the academic and identity issues at stake, there was also discussion ol" athletics and finances, and how both would be impacted by Big Ten mnmbership. 
see SENATE I page 4 
institutions. !Jut obtaining books ol'Lnn takns w1iuks. Mcmllcrship in tlrn CIC would i:ut that ti111<) to days. whil'h would b<) 1·sp1\<:ially beneficial J'or graduate studnnts, who lend l11 utiliz1\ this option more tha11 u11dorg1·,1duatcs. 
Students lllay qunslion lhis advantage ii' lhny don't (\Vl!II know other lil.Jrarins· volumes are avail­
alJln lo tlwm. For those stu­dents who don't !'incl books from otlwr schools, this may not sc1·111 likn mud1 of' positivn force ill joi11ing the llig T1•11. 
"/\s s111dnnls, w1• don't valuo goll.i11g a book l'ast!\J' if' by Joining Llw Big T1\n wn can"t 1.iilk 111 our lP!'her 
ahoul it." said f'rl'shman Mic:hanl 11 a 11 no 11, who (JXJ)rt'SS()d concern rngarcl­ing how an nxpandcd grad­

uate program would al'f'ncl the quality of' u1Hlnrgrnduatc (iduca­lion. 
According to !he 1:aculty Snnatc's rnporL, Llrn CIC 1:11rrnnlly prodt1C(\S I:,-20 pnrco11t of all Ph.D.s in tlw Unil1'.cl Stal<'s. This, 
Sl'C BIG TEN / page 4 

that added l 50 new !'acuity nrnmbers as evidence of his group's commitment to teaching. While Detlefsen spoke on bClhalf' of' the Faculty 
SClnate, a number of professors present 
make enough of an 
effort to determine fac­
ulty opinion on the mat-
PETER CESARO ter. STIJ!Jl'l\lT HODY PRESIDENT "I think if our faculty 
Black history month valuable to University 
By MAUREEN SMITHE News Writer 
In 1929 -the ynar or Martin Luther King's birth -Carter Woodson, the son of former slavCls, roaliznd that American high schools were com­pletdy neglecting to teach the history ol' blacks. 
Discouragnd ·ynt deter­minml, Woodson worked J'or rncognition or Al'rican­/\rnnricans· contributions to tho national culture. Thn fruit of his ef"l'orts can be Sl'l'll today as Black Ilistory Month kicks off once again. 
"It's a chance to get to 


know black history," sopho-Iris Outlaw mor11 Znsha Ilolylfold said. "The history books don't havn us in them, and we wnrc a part of building this country." 
Notrn Dame will celebrate throughout the next l<)Ur wcwks with programs and displays through­out the campus. Iris Outlaw, director of the 0flicn of" Multicultural Studrrnt Affairs, stressed hm dopartnwnl's role in planning the events. 
"The 0l"lice or Multicultural Student Affairs nor­mally has donn tho majority of programming dur­ing Black llistory Month," Outlaw said. "Certain circumstances -racial incidents on campus ­l'orced llrn University to b1\ more sensitive. The school is trying to make the campus more encom­passing in celebration through displays through­out thn campus." One such display at tho Ilesburgh Library recognizes blacks in the clergy. 
Many people, including Outlaw, feel that one month is not adequate time to celebrate African­/\mnrican contributions. 
see HISTORY/ page 4 
... 

page 2 
¦ INSIDE .COLUMN 
Don't blatne the rich 
I have to admit that the ideological debate surrounding the rich and poor, specifically regarding Catholic teaching. interests me tremendously. 
Although nol lhe most 
Dustin Ferrell 

prominent debate on campus at the moment, Assistant Viewpoinr Editor lhe rich/poor question has inspired ev!'rything from heated class­room debates to 50-part columns here at Notre Dame. I'd rather not focus on the futile, anti-capitalist arguments pushed by some students and faculty. Instead I want to address the hatred of the upper class voiced almost universally by the "have-nots," of which I am a member economically if not ide­ologically. I hear all sorts of attacks on the wealthy, most revolving around "they stole it"or "they inherited it," neither of which con­stitute a majority of rich persons in the United States. Many people feel the need to blame poverty on the fact that the rich won't give their 
money away. Some even utilize religion and Catholic doctrine to demonize the rich. refer­ring to their "deep moral and spiritual peril." 
Not so fast, folks! I'm well aware of a moral obligation to help the needy, but I know of no Catholic teaching damning rich people simply for their wealth. There has never been any­thing inherently evil with earning money if done so ethically. 
I can't imagine what will happen when I make that fateful journey to chat with St. Peter: "Well Ferrell, judging by your adjusted gross income for the past 40 years, it says here you qualify for the Fifth Circle of Hell." Is that after you weigh in the good things, like the unifying themes of my columns? 
Hopefully I've illustrated a point that most people already comprehend -it's okay to have money. It's fine to worship in the Basilica with all of those golden statues and beautiful stained glass windows. Yes, you can even eat three meals a day. guilt-free. Why? Because you do have a moral obligation to help those in need, but not to suffer merely because someone suffers elsewhere. 
Your suffering will not decrease anyone else's problems, but only appease your con­science. This is a trademark of "progres­sives": "Look, I'm helping, don't I feel better! What have YOO done?" Then these same folks chastise my cronies and myself for a lack of compassion, and wonder why no one 
takes them seriously. 

If you still feel guilty. do something about it. 
Co on a summer service project. Work at the 
Center for the Homeless, something I enjoyed 
doing last year. But do not at any time criti­
cize or blame those who are better off as if 
they're responsible for the lot of everyone 
else. 

It takes guts to admit the causes of poverty 
do not all lie in the hands of the "well off," 
and to offer concrete solutions. These chari­
table endeavors are necessary, but offer only 
temporary help. as people on both sides real­
ize. And who offers more permanent solu­
tions through job creation? You guessed it. 
So if it makes things easier for you, consid­
er "the rich" some sort of enemy. But while 
you're serving mankind by telling us what 
doom awaits the rich, remember a few other 
Catholic teachings as well. Is your service just 
appeasing your conscience and adding to 
your resume, or do you do it for the ideal 
reasons? 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are lhose uf the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Dustin Ferrell can be reached at: Jerrell.J@nd.edu 
¦ TOOAY'S STAFF 
News  Scene  
Christine Kraly  Mike Vanega.s  
finn Pressly  Graphics  
Josh Bourgeois  Scott Hardy  
Sports  Production  
Kari Miller  Kathleen Lopez  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Mary Margaret Nussbaun,  Meg Kroener  

The Observer (USPS 59'> 2-4000) is published Moncl,y through hiday ex,;;cpf during exam and vaca.rion periods. The Observer is .1. m~mber of the As~oc1ared Press. AH rcproductjo11 rights a.re re:i.crved. 
I  
I  ,  •  •.  
~  .  .  ' .  '  
l_ ­ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - . .  - - .  '_ - - _' ­ - - . .  


--·-~-------••­The Observer• INSIDE Monday, February 1, 1999 





utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire repons 

Administrators defend affirmative action in admissions 
NEW YOHK. N.Y 
One day after the Center for Individual nights (CIHI launched its nationwide campaign against the use of affirmative action in college admis­sions procedures, Columbia officials defended the school's admissions poli­cies as not only legal, bul essential to the creation of a diverse student body. 
"Columbia has had an affirmative action program for more than 30 years, and it has been extremnly suc­cessful in attracting to Columbia gifted students from all racial and ethnir. backgrounds," University President George Hupp said in a statement released by his office. 
But former Dean of Students Roger Lehecka was reluctant to characterize Columbia's admissions policies as a form of affirmative action, a phrase which refers to a government program established in tho 1970s requiring col­leges and other institutions to see that 
¦ SOUTHERN h.UNO!S UNIVERSITY 





Q,¢Q,~9.GQ(f ~ a Chicago 40 35 New Orleans 67 47 Pittsburgh 45 25 
Showers T-storms Rain Flu"ies Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy
Snow 

Dallas 67 35 New York 45 21 Seattle 43 34 
Vi,1 Assoc,aft?d Press GraphicsNM 
admissions policins and possibly file a lawsuit against the school. 
The law in question was established by a 1978 Supreme Court decision which found the use of racial quotas in the admissions process to be illegal. According to the decision. known as Bakke, race can be used as one of sev­eral criteria in admissions. 
Provost .Jonathan Cole asserted that no school. to his knowledge, breaks the law as established in Bakke. 
"I certainly don't think that we do that," Cole said. 
Lehccka affirmed Colo's sentiment, stating, "I certainly don't believe that," in ref'crence to the CIR's accusations against schools nationwide. 
Columbia has never faced a lawsuit related to the admissions process, Cole said, and the University is legally oblig­ated to file affirmative action reports annually, and has been very careful in its adherence to l'ederal and state laws. 

Politicians criticize tuition waivers  Legislators debate student government  
CARBONDALE, Ill.  GAINESVILLE, Fla.  
A 94-ycar-old tradition of state legislators awarding  For the first time in history. Florida's public university  
tuition waivers has drawn concern from some Illinois  student governments could be recognized as a legal  
politicians who fear a Jong-standing pattern of abuse with­ entity. And if a proposed bill passes through the  
in the system has rendered the program in dire need of  Legislature, that legal status would make it impossible  
reform. The system has been widely criticized since a  for university presidents to abolish them. The draft bill,  
Chicago Tribune report appeared earlier in January that  introduced last week by Kevin Mayeux, Florida Student  
embarrassed several state legislators. The Tribune inves­ Association director, proposes adding a statement to the  
tigation documented numerous politicians who have used  Florida statute that each student government is orga­ 
their tuition waiver privilege to award scholarships at  nized by and accountable to students. The proposal, to  
public universities to the offspring of friends, colleagues  be considered first by the House Colleges and  
and campaign contributors. The legislative scholarship  Universities Committee chaired by Casey, also states  
program, started in 1905, allows the l 77 members of the  each student government will have a president and leg­ 
General Assembly to waive tuition costs at Illinois' public  islative branch responsible for its own rules and repre­ 
universities for up to eight students at a time. The waivers  sentatives, Mayeux said. "Basically, the bill puts in  
can be distributed regardless of a recipient's financial  statute guarantees that are already in place at UF,"  
need or academic prowess.  Mayeux said. "It will apply to all universities in Florida."  
• UI\W/ERS!TY Of ARIZONA  ¦ GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY  
Governor examines racial tension  Protests fail to impede labor code  
TUCSON. Ariz.  WASHINGTON  
Attorneys for Gov. Jane Dee Hull yesterday reviewed a  Georgetown University will most likely sign on to a contro­ 
complaint of possible race and gender discrimination filed  versial code of conduct designed to improve working condi­ 
by the Africana Studies' core faculty members and the  tions in the factories that make collegiate apparel, Dean of  
program's former director. Francie Noyes, Hull's press  Students James A. Donahue said Thursday. The decision  
secretary, said that the governor's office recently received  would go against the expressed wishes of GUSA, the  
a letter alleging there is a "hostile" racial environment at  Graduate Students Association and the Georgetown  
the University of Arizona. State lawyers are waiting for  Solidarity Committee (GSC}, which has scheduled a rally in  
more information until they react to the situation, she  protest of the code at 1 p.m. today in Red Square. The code.  
said. The Jetter, signed by four UA faculty members, states  the product of a task force set up by the Atlanta-based  
that racism is "so endemic to the University of Arizona  Collegiate Licensing Company (CLC), was.written in response  
that something desperately needs to be done here to dis­ to a growing movement among students and human rights  
pel the hostility to African-American women and other  activists seeking to end sweatshop labor practices. The CLC  
people of color." Mikelle Omari, a OA arts professor and  acts as a go-between for 160 colleges and universities,  
former Africana Studies program director, and three  including Georgetown, and the manufacturers who produce  
Africana Studies professors asked for outside assistance to  their apparel. Georgetown was among the fifteen schools  
remove the department's acting director, Julian Kunnie.  represented on the task force that drafted the code.  

they searched affirmatively for a broad range of candidates in admissions and hiring procedures. 
Lehecka said Columbia admissions oflicers have been using such search­ing policies since the mid-60s, in search for "good students who will provide them with a diverse class." 
CIR is accusing "nearly every elite college in Amflrica" of violating nondis­crimination laws in a tl1e full-page advertisement that encouraged stu­dents to order a free handbook that explains how to investigate a school's 
¦ UNIVERSITY OF ftiJR!DA 
¦ SOUTH BENO WEATHER ¦-NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather"forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Monday, Feb. 1. lines separate high tern zones for the day. 

20s , ¾,H •·· . -=------,--s;:;;,r::;ll\.,.~ 40s -­

Mond~y ~ 40 33:! 
! 

Tuesday ~ 43 34 
... '''.. . . . 
. ·;;;;


we·dnesdaywrNDY 4}w 33 \ 038 28

Thur$day 
,; 
:<> 
Prt!sure:
Friday . ,:;)-48 30 
,.r 

® © m . . . m tx-1 o ¼1i1,., ~mf,
~,.)'. \J ..~·,...,,.,/ ~..i'' 

High Low Showen Rain T-11torm• Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 

Monday, February 1, 1999 

The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Legendary tales survive time to teach age-old lessons 
RUTH SNELL began with a psychic's predic­News Writer tion of a mass murder on a col­lege campus, involves a serial Most students know the "five killer dressed in a Littl1~ Bo 
minulP rule." If' a profossor is not in class by five minutes aflnr llrn class' starting tinrn, 1ivnryone can leavn. 
Whiln sonrn may call it com­mon s11 nsn. tlwsn u II writlen standards and laws -nspncial­ly at the 11nivm-sity lnvnl -con­

sti tu tP urban l11gonds. With thnir univm-sal draw. Urn mys­Pocp IIallowcen costume. liquP uf tlwir urigins and thnir In Urn Saint Mary's version, all-Pncompassing lnssons, tho psychic predictnd tho mur­11rban lngends bond gro11ps derer would attack a womnn's wit.h I.ales of wondnr and woe. Midwnstnrn college that had a 
/\crnrding to .John Shinnnrs. building shaped likn an "II," associatn profossor and ch,lir of possibly with tunnels. However, llw llumanislir Studi11s dnpart­thn 1!1gond was false, and m11nl al Saint Mary's, urban Shinrrnrs said that the story had 1!1gnnds an• nspm:ially prnvalent lrnnn "circulating since the on coll1ig-e campus1is. 1'J60s, and is refreshed as audi­
"Tlwsc lal1\s l<'ml to addn\ss e 1H:(;s get a hold of' [the problnms or modern living," d1\tails!." ShinnPrs said. "Tlwy arc nsp1•­Another false legend 
dally fouml 011 collegP campus-descrilrns thrnP 11s hm:aus11 lots of young pnophi girls playing rrorn dilTPrPnt placns are with a Ouija adjusting lo lining away rrom hoard in honw and living in a community Hegina llall. or rnlativ11 strang11rs. Tim talns 01111 of whom is am told to caution and ontnr­possnssed by tain." tlrn d n vi I. 
According to Shinrwrs, some 
Shinrrnrs said 
drnrnctnristics are round in all he heard the urban lcg!1nds. Tlwy senm to samn rumor, nmw from a rnliabln source, or 
which tinds tlwrn is a traceable chain of with the girl·s relation. Ther11 is an elemont of' llxcorcism. 25 horror or humor or years ago when bizarreness. /\nd always. thorn hn was in col­is an important mnssago or loge in moral. l.ouisiana. 
reputation as one of tlw uldesl halls on campus adds fuel Lo lhc fire of the circulating lngm1ds. 
"Our room was haunLed," said Tiffany Maynrhornr. a freshman who lived in tlw snc­ond annex of LeMans earlinr this year. "Stuff foll off tlw walls the first night we wnrn I lwrn, and we hoard chains jingling in the night. We'd IPavn t.lu1 donr locked and we'd conw back a11d it'd be unlock1)d." 
During oriPntalion wnnkt>rul, Mayerhol'er also !ward ii story that during prn-yon r room checks, tlw rnsid1)11l advisor in the second annox was un:ihl!i to unlock any of' tlw doors. (Wnn with the master key. Only al'tPr slrn went to get assistarH·P did the doors opnn. 
THE HAl'ID WB/\TI I ()I, RUMOHS 
Pnrpetuatnd mu,·.h like 
'IHEARD THAT IN QUEENS 
COURT [A LEMANS SEC­TION] SOME GIRL HAD A BABY AND KILLED IT AND PUT IT IN A DUMPSTER, AND 
SOMETIMES YOU CAN STILL HEAR IT CRYING AT NIGHT.' 
Sl!ANNO.'V O'DONNELL McCANDLESS RESmENT 
rumors. urban lq{eruls ,1r11 a form or l'olk tale and arn moan t Lo pass Oil SOnH' sort or i m po r tan t message to thn COlllllllillity, Shinnors said. 
"I lward lhal in Quiwns Court I a LnMans soc­
Lion I sonw girl had a baby and kill11d (t 
and put it in a dumpster, and 
Christa lfoidbrcder. the direc­sometimes you can still h11ar it 
LEGENDS ... SAINT M/\HY'S tor of' McCandless llall, has crying at night," said Shannon 
STYLE heard that the ghost of an old O'Oonrrnll, a McCandloss fresh-
maintenance worker who wears man. Tlw most famous Saint Marv's overalls haunts the tunnels of One true legend, according lo lngmul. which Shinners s,iid l.eMans llall. LeMans llall's Shinners, involves a st.11dont 

solvint-; two unsolvable math nqualions on accident. 
"Dantzig. a graduate student at UC-Berkley, saw two math equations on the board in an empty classroom, and thinking limy wcrn his assignments, W!)nt homo and solved previ­ously unsolvnd problems," Shinnnrs said. 
The use of e-mail has assisted thP rapid spread or legends, espuci11lly on college campuses. 
"I think tho lntnrnet is the great backyard fence for 
spreading urban legends," Shinners said. "It has all the advantagos of quick communi­cations with a large group ol' strangers. And bncause it's in print, it looks like it's trwi." 
/\t Urn samn time, some Web silns, including The San Fernando Valley Folklorn Socinty's Urban Legends Bef'erenc1i Pages at www.snopos.cmn. list and rank IPg1mds according to their valid­ity, and providn information on somn legend sourcns. 


Row, row, row your boat ... 
The Observer/Rob Exconde 

The 13th annual Late Night Olympics rocked the Rolfs Aquatic Center Friday with kayaking and innertube water polo. The compe­tition sponsored 20 events. including broomball and indoor soccer held at the Joyce Center and Rolfs RecSports Center. Proceeds were donated to Special Olympics. 
TAKE RISKS IN LIFE. 
(not in credit cards) 
Introducing the American 
~..,E:f!~.!! ~r~~J.~r.'! f~~~~~!,~~
live for toaay. Build for tomorrow. 
The American Express Credit Card for Students is a resource you can depend on. With benefits like big air­fare savings, free credit information, and no annual fee, it'll help you get the most from your student years -and help you build a solid financial foundation for the future. 
-•Cards 

· I 
I 
__ #­

page 4 The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS Monday, February I , I999 


Senate History 

"It's a way to improve our not plan to stray from under­graduate programs," said grad teaching.
Big Ten 

An I hony llyder, associate vice Other programs offered 
continued from page l pr1:sident of the graduate through the CIC could enhance sd1uol. "But it's not the only initiative in deciding to join. way. The University and the Efforts such as the Alliance for
and the fact thut tile 

UnivPrsity alono will decide Success [AFSJ, which pro­
University falls behind CIC 

what research takes place on motes advancement in minori­
members in gradual<) pro­our campus. No affiliation will ty graduate attendance, and
grams has becurnn a major 

di<:Lat<i that to us," the Traveling Scholar
concern in thP dncision to Though joining the CIC Program, which allows doctor­
become a Big Ten membPr. Memborshiµ in tho CIC 

seems a good prospect for al students from CIC schools to would also boost N11trr1 graduate studonts, many do course work abroad, add to und<•rgruduates are worried the appeal of CIC membership.
Dame's rcputalion us a gradu­

,ilrnut how it will alTect them.
ate and resBarch univnrsil.y Academic pros and cons 
,\n:ording to Uw report sfmt aside, much concern has been
through a comwction with 111;1 raised over the Catholic
Association of A11rnricm1 
identity of' the University.
Universities IAAUI and a 
"I don't think we'rehigher rank in Lhn 

'ITHINK WE [CAN] DO OUR GRADUATE going to lose our Catholic
Carnegie Classif'ication 
character," said

System. STUDENTS A SERVICE IN GETTING 
Preacher.
Notre Dame currn11lly 


POSTGRADUATE JOBS BY JOINING COR·
boasts an H2 classifica­As the only m11mber of tion rngarding resna1·ch SORTIA LIKE THE CIC.' the CIC with a Catholic affiliation, questions have
abilities and is not a member of the !\!\U J\11 

been raised whether the CIC institutions, how<'vnr, 
. MWIIAHL DETLEFSEN University would lose its aro AAU members witli FACULff SENATE C/11\lli religious identity. The CIC bases its mem­
R1 status. Joining LIH• Big bership on the autonomy
Ten would give tlw University immediate 
or each institution, which many of faculty members
exposure to thPso high-hope would help main­

r an king qualifications and oul by the Student Senate, tain the independent and reli­
could very well prnpnl it to an 

th<•rn am also roal negatives gious character of the
R1 position_ 

l'or undergraduates if Notre Univnrsity.
"I think we lean! do our graduatfl students a sorvic<) in Dam,1 moves blindly towards "I don't think Notre Dame is 
b1ii11µ; a research university. ever going to lose its indepen­getting postgradunl<1 jobs by 
"They {undergraduates] dent character," added
joining cosortia lib! tltn CIC," 

won· t be academically Preacher. "We define our own
said Michael Detlel'snn. rhair harmed," said Prnacher, who character within the confines
of the Faculty Senate. -· 

1·mphasized the fact that of our institution."
Not cvcrvone. how<W<H, 

though they will be able to
shares the s;une zest f'or grad­

s1rn11d more time and energy Tim Logan contributed to
uate improvement through the 

rnsParching, the faculty does this story. 
CIC as Detlefsen. 




Have ne-ws? Call The Observer at 1-5323 or stop by the baseinent of SDH. 


The African American Study Program The Center for Social Concerns & Biko-Stewart proudly pt·esenl 
BLACI( HISTORY MONTH FILM SERIES 
1. 
Wednesday, February 3, 1999/ 7:00 PM/ 141 Debartolo NELSON MANDELA: THE MAN, by Tony Cimher/ 1994 Nelson Mandela, easily the most recognizable Black man in the world, dramatically rose to power over a government that imprisoned him for over a ,p1arter of a century. His relentless quest for freedom and peace opposed the turbulent Apartheid government of South Africa: a country marred hy political arrest, violence, and racial turmoil. This in-depth and moving film details the remarkahle life of Nelson Mandela with footage that had never before been seen in the United States. Nelson Mandela fulfills a dream for post Aparthei,l South Africa and gives hope to sup­pressed peoples everywhere. 

2. 
Wednesday, Fehruar.y 10, 199W 7:00 PM/ 141 Debartolo ASHAKARA, by Gerard Louvin?Togo, Switzerland, and France/ 1991/ 90 min. Set in Togo, West Africa, Ashakara is a modern African tale. An African doctor finds a cure to a deadly virus and decides to mass produce the drug at low cost in Africa. However, a pharmaceu­tical multi-national does not want the doctor to succeed and sends an agent to Africa first to buy the drug, then to destroy it... Mixing action, suspense, good humor, and a lucid depiction of the contemporary African continent, Ashakara entertains and educates 11s all at once. 


3. Wednesday, February 17, 1999/ 7:00 PM/ 141 Debartolo 
REH/ND THESE WAUS: M1tmia Alm-Jamal & the Long Struggle for Freedom, by Jules Buerjes & Heike Kleffner/ 1996/ 70 miu. On August 17, 1995, Mnmia Abu-Jamal, journalist and former Black Panther Party Member was sd1ed11led to lie executed and his case -he is one of the 3,000 death row inmates in the US -has raised international attention and protest. The execution warrant was stayer!; however, Governor Ridge of Pennsylvania immediately announced his plan to sign a new death warrant as scHm as legally possible. This film documents Mnmia-Alm-Jamal's long strnggle for a m~w trial. It explores Lhe history of his trial and subsequent hearings an,l meti1,ulously tells the sto1·y of this famous case through interviews with Ahn-Jamal himself, the attorneys, family members and oth­ers involve1l in the story of one of the US' most controversial political prisoners. 
2. Wednesday, Febl'uary 24, 1999/ 7:00 PM/ 141 Dehartolo FARA W! MOTHER OF THE DUNES, 1Jy Abdoul<tlye Ascofarel Mali/ 1997/ 90 min. Zamiatou is the mother of two quarrelsome hoys and a deprt\sscd teenag1• girl. She is also the wife of a man arrcskd for political reasons who returns from prison 1rn~ntally and physically tlei:;troy,~cl. Sh,, struggles hard to survive in a poor and desolatt~ area. She is ready to face any­thing to keep the family alive except prnstituting her h,,autiful ,laughter. [ler determination will take her far from her family. 
continued from page I 
Using official figures, finance professor Richard Sheehan, a specialist in sports linances, said that Notre Dame's athletic pro­grams would most likely lose more than $4.5 million each year by joining the Big Ten. 
"If vou look at the numbers, it's mJt a good deal from an ath­lelic perspective," he said, 
The Athletic Department con­tinued its silence on the issue, 
'WEHAV[ APPROACHED THIS 
AS A LEARNING EXPERI­
ENCE.' 
TOM KEU,Y 
ASSOC/ATE DIRECTOR OF 
ATHLETICS 
although Tom Kelly, associate director of Athletics did sit on the panel. He said his depart­ment was prepared for either option and had looked at the researching process as a good opportunity. 
'"We have approached this as a learning experience," he said. "We've put together information on where we're going." 
Two members of the Board of Trustees listened in on the forum. Provost Nathan Hatch attended the discussion while Trustee Robert Conway had a special telephone hookup 1.o his home in London in order to hear the debate. One of the panelists, Elizabeth Toomey, sits on the Board as president of the Alumni Association. She indicat­ed that she will vote against join­ing the Big Ten because of strong alumni opposition to the move. 
continued from page 1 
"Unfortunately, this is the only time that people of African descent get any kind of publication," Outlaw said. "I am more about including this spirit throughout the entire year. It is appropriate that we do lift up all year." 
Black History Month was officially organized in 1976. Its roots go back to 1929, when Woodson created "Negro History Week" to cel­ebrate black heritage. The week of Feb. 19 was chosen, since the birthdays of Abraham Lincoln· and Frederick Douglass, leaders in the fight for emancipation, both fall during that time. 
People expressed concern that one week was not suffi­cient to observe all of the contributions blacks have made in America's history. As a result, the entfre month of February was designated as "Black History Month" in 1976_ 

r 20th anniversary in prouidi.ng 

·iy summer edaccarion. 
rench Immersion 
History . g for Film. Filmmaking tural Excursions 
75007 Paris, France 
Fax (33/1) 40 62 07 17 
Z) 983-1414 
PICK ONE OR MORE 
January 23 -4:00 PM Deadline -January 2·1 February 6 -10:00 AM Deadline -February _4 February 13 -2:00 PM Deadline -February 11 
Clinic held at Notre Dame Golf Course Register in Advance at RecSports $5.00 Charge Wear Layered Clothing and Warm Gloves 
Equipment Rental Available -$4.00 Charge 





R-=-~ 


Monday, February I, 1999 
¦ WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Conservative Party suspends Spencer for behavior 

I.ONDON 

Thi' opposition Consc~rvative Party on Sunday suspended a 1':ttropean Parliament lawrnaknr who was f'i,wd by customs !'or bringing marijuana and homosexual pornog­raphy into Britain. Tom Spencer, 50, a mcm­hP r of tlw Consurvalivc group in the l•:uropna11 Union's parliament, based in Strasbourg, France, paid $900 lo customs in an out-of-court sntlh!nHint after pornograph­k vitkos, magazinns and a small amount of marijuana wnro found in his hrinfease during a roulinn chc\ck at London's lleathrow /\irporl. Such sotllmncnts am usually confi­dnntial and mean individuals do not have lo ap1war in court. llowevcr, news of the line was h!aknd lo newspapers at the weekend. SpP1wcn-said he would not stand for rn-elec­tion to the European l'arliament in June, adding that he would understand if llrn Tories decided to drop him. "I am gay, I have always been gay." Spencer told reporters, standing alongside his wifo. Elizabeth. out­side tlrnir home in Churl. Surrey. 
Scientists link origin of AIDS with chimps 
CHICAGO 

Where did the /\IDS virus come from? Sdnnlists believe they have solved this linger­ing myst11ry. Thn answer: chimps. In a pre­s1rntation Sunday, researche1·s from the University of Alabama at Birmingham said thoy havn convincing proof that the virus has spn~ad on at least throe separate occasions from chimpanznes to people in Africa. One of llrnsn cross-species transmissions was the start of the epidemic that now infects about :15 million peopln worldwide. Chimps, which have probably carried the virus for hundreds ol' thousands of years, apparently do not get sick from it. Figuring out why could be impor­tant. 
Bauer announces bid for 200CT 
WASHINGTON 

C:011sMvative activist Gary Bauer, saying he has a vision for the wuntry that will excite thn Anwrican people. announced Sunday his intc~ntion to run for the Hepublican nomina­tion for prnsident. Bauer, 52, admitted that "a lot of /\mericans probably don't know me yc•t" hut said lw l1as tlw conservative creden­tials and money-raising skills necessary for a viable candidacy. Bauer. interviewed on NBC's "Mctit tlw Prnss," said he will l'ilc 
papr.rs Monday with llrn Federal Election C:nmmission on forming a presidential !\Xploratory commilt1•.n. 'Tm anxious and 011th11siastic about getting into this debate ancl seeing if' we can chwate H. ser, if we can put some real issuos on the table for the American pnopln," hn said. 
Market Watch: 1/29 

Dow 
AMEX: 714.86

]ONES Up:
+0.?3 IJ21
Nasdaq: 2505.89 
+28.55 
IR 
NYSE:

9n3 
Down:
600.44 
1.2-37
+'i.04 S&l' 500: 1279.64 
Composite 
t 14.27 

Volume: +77.50 852,000,000 
VOLUME LEADERS 

1.iJMl'At::U 1u ,rs '!it l'IIAt:Hjr i Sit.Its l1Blrl 1»1.11 l.OMl'lt'Jl:lt llfl.l. th 17 +tHl 2~ 1rnu10 l'ltll'll·!it)tl' INt l'Sll -1 I 7I ·l 6275 19.Hl \11( HO~Ol I CORI' MSFI +(),~7 +!,{Jt)(J() 175.(){) 1·l'itOW~n.M:-i C!iCO tl.47 +2.t:'!M.50 IIU6 \I ltV11:r. l:tll\l' IN sav dl..1-1 ·2.0600 15.94 l'i.lMl'l\l2 l:i.lMl'l!IT.11. l:l'(l t0.79 -tlU725 47.~b INIH CONI' INTI: -,.2_14 •.1.7.125 l•W.'N MIJ.JI.R1ll1:HM,INJ Ml.l!N •ll.llH ..\,()(,()() IH. 1N AMUt ~ li'~l.lNt. J\OL +0,bK +I.IH25 175.bZ APl1I.H I> MATHHAL AMAT +7. 10 ~4.1900 bJ.19 

COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES 
ASSOCIATED PRESS 
PRISTJNA 
Only days before Kosovo Albanians were expected to talk peace with the Serbs, U.S. and British envoys were shuttling between hotel rooms. explaining conference plans to rival ethnic Albanians who wouldn't even sit together. 
Beyond that common goal of inde­pendence for their Kosovo homeland, ethnic Albanian leaders are divided by deep personal and philosophical differences, petty rivalries and a desire for power. .. 
The success of the international Kosovo peace conference, which the United States and five major European powers have called for Saturday, may depend largr,ly on whether these groups can speak with a single voice in negotiations with the Serbs. 
NATO has authnriv~d Secretary­General Javier Solana to launch mili­tary action in Yugoslavia if the diplo­matic initiative fails. 
"There is considerable pressure now for them to unite, and it's not only corning from the international community but from inside the Albanian community as well," Veton Surroi, an influential ethnic Albanian journalist, told The Associated Press. 
Independence from the Yugoslav republic of Serbia is a goal agreed on by most Kosovo Albanians, who form 90 percent of the province's 2 million people. 
Mahmut Bakali. the former Communist Party president in Kosovo, says international pressure will probably lead the rivals to over­come their differences. 
"There is no difference in the goal of independence," he said. "These rivalries are irrational." 
Still animosities are strong and have sometimes exploded into blood­shed. 
In September, moderate politician Sabri Hamiti was critically wounded in an unsolved ambush after expressing readiness to negotiate only self-ruin -the goal of the talks 
page 5 

in Rambouillet, France. 
The key ethnic Albanian players are: Ibrahim Rugova, the twice­elected "president" of a Kosovo gov­ernment that the Serbs have never recognized; and the Kosovo Liberation Army, which has rebounded from battlefield defeats last summer. 
Although independence remains his goal. B.ugova has accepted a plan for an "interim solution" to grant Kosovo sweeping autonomy for three years. 
After that, Serbs and ethnic Alba11ic111s could reconsider full inde­pendence. But Albanian state televi­sion quoted senior KLA official Jakup Krasniqi as saying "negotiations organized in a rush do not guarantne success for the solving of the Kosovo problem." 
Krasniqi, who met last week with 
U.S. envoy Christopher Hill, was quoted by the rebel news agency Kosova Press as saying the guerrillas "remain open to negotiations with relevant international actors." 
¦ .UNITED ARAB EMlr-tATES 

Iran celebrates Khollleini's anniversary 
Ac:;soCJATED PRESS  The moment that Khomeini's plane  Khatami.  
touched down  -9:33 a.m,  -will be  Despite state efforts to burnish  
DUBAI  rriarked Monday. with the ringing of  Khomeini's image with television  
As if reciting a fairy tale, tbe host of' a children's TV program narrates a brief account of Iran's 1979 Islamic  ... schoolb_ells,und tra:in~ and ships will . blow their :whjstles,.~,helicopter will shower flowers on histotnb.  shows, many in Iran know that his revolution shattered mnny Hv<1s. More than lO,OUO trnnlans were  
revolution, which overthrew a king,  The stern Shiite Muslim cleric ral­ executed in waves of revolutionary  
stunned the United States and rum­ lied the nation to overthrow the U.S.­ terror unleashed by Khomeini. More  
bled through the entire Muslim world.  supported shah, defied the United States by holding 52 American diplo­ than a half'-rnillion Iranians, mostly professionals and the rich, left. the  
He points to a  nwerent portrait (>f  mats hostage for more than  a year  country to live abroad.  
the late Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini and holds up a long•nosed puppet of Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, who  Md threatened to export his revolu­tion around tho world.. Later, in February 1989, Khomeini  And about a million people were killed .in tho 1980-88 war with Iraq, which created two million refugees in  
was toppled by tho man Iranians call  shocked the world when he accusfld  Iran alone. Disabled  war veterans  
"imam," or saint.  British writer Salman Rushdie of  still beg in the strMl<s.  
"This, children. was the good imam  insulting Islam in his novel. "Satanic  In the run-up to Monday's anniver­ 
who rid Iran of the evil shah," he says. As the anniversary approaches of Khomeini's n~turn from exile in France 20 years ago, state~run televi­ Verses," and called on Muslims to kill hlrn. Rushdie was forced into hiding. Khomeini died onJune :{, 1989, and the Islamic rep-µl)ltc that he left behind is nowin the grips of a power  sary, state television has broadcast at least a dozon times a day the footage of Khomeini climbing down the stairs of an Air France jumbo jet. a French steward holding his hand.  
sion has been full of programs to  struggle. Hard-liners want to corttin­ What those heavily edited images  
keep Khomeini's memory alive ..... especially among Iranians bom since 1979. ·  ue to rule in his uncompromising St:Yle and moderates are loyal to the. reformist president, Mohammad  don't show is what Khomeini told a reporter on the plane who asked how he felt about returning home,  

page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT . Monday, February 1, 1999 

GENERAL MEETING 
_ today 
9:30 pm 

notre dame room lnd floor lafortune 
. ...... . ---­
·. ,,,._ . .: -'t~'ir::· , .:~_': ~
:~.• ·_.
. . ..~. : _-;~~r
.•~-:· . 

'' ' 

' , t I \ , I . I , f ~ , I 1 1 , I , . , I 
' 

Monday, February 1, I')99 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
¦ JORDAN 
King chooses son as heir to throne 
Associate,! Press 
AMMAN 
King Hussein's deparlure to thr, United Statr,s last wook to ln•at a relapsn of cancer endod a stunning w1,ok of' power stn1gglns and purgt1s that forov• nr chnngml thf' royal family. 
Al times, not evon tlrn king's dos1~sl advisr•rs knew his choice for an heir -and many sus­lWl'tl•d it might bn hi,s 11i.yenr• old son. llnmz!'h, 1:onsidHred his favorilP, palacr. sources said on condition of' anonymity. Throughout. the king was in and out or thn hospital, twice after falling in his bathroom, ttwv said. 
·{1111 sources provil!Pd this account: Word of the clrnnge c·ame a dav afLPr llussoin's rnturn, on )an. 20. when the king hintod to CNN that, aftor :14 yPars grooming his brother f'or ttw throne, he might choose a 1rnw sur.cnssor. Tho noxt day, Princ1i II assan contacted the king's otnce, inquiring about his status. lie roceiv"d no /lllSWfll". 
Tho response was to r.omo .Jan. 22. whm the king sent two senior 11idBs -his inl11lligence chin!" and army r,hiel' of staff ­to flassan's home to tell him thal lw was no longer crown princu. The two nrnn were among a group that Hussein had accusHd Hassan of trying to purgo while ho was sick. 
IIassan tried to call the king, but lrn had returned to a mili· tary hospital to roceivc transfu· sions. Upon his release Friday evening, the king saw Hassan at his home in Amman's out­skirts. 
On Jan. 23. the king informed his sonior aithis of' his dodslon that Hassan would not be his successor. but stopped short of naming an heir. 
That decision was taken the next day, when the king met Abdullah, his oldest son and a major gonernl in tho army. 
Later that night, the king foll in his bathroom, hitting his head -thn first in a series of' mishaps -and had to return to the hospital. I le fell again in his bathroom Monday and cut his thigh, just hours after signing the decree to appoint Abdullah as lrnir lo the Hashemite throne. 
Ue was a.gain taken to the hospital with a high !'ever, and his doctors decidod he had to return to the Unitod Statos. 
lie was released about mid· night, convening his security and military aides. tho primo minister and his brother, Prince Mohammed, to give them instructions whilci he was gone. Hassan arrived three hours late. Once there. he turned over the medal of crownship to Abdullah in the presence of the king. 
The next day, the king. weak and !lushed, loft for the airport. where he swore in Abdullah and then departed. 
Associated Press 
CAMP I.E.JEUNE, N.C. 
A flawed map that l'ailod to show ski gondola towers stretching 500 l'cct above an alpine valley may be the c1mtral issue at tho court-martial or a Marine pilot charged with killing 20 people when his plane's wing severocl a gondola cabin. 
Capt. Hiclmrd Ashby's defense team says Im never would have flown his EA·6B Prowler jet into the valley nnar Cavah1se, Italy, if he had known about the ski lift. But his map didn't show the cable system, built in 1%6. 
"Air crews rely on maps given to tlrnm by the United Slates lo plan their mission," said Prank Spimrnr. a civilian lawyer hired to assist Ashby's military attor• neys. 
"When vou have an uncharted ohstructi;m that goos 500 feet above ground level smack in the middln of an approvnd low•alti· tude rouln, how could you expect them to know that it exists'?" 
Prosecution lawyers acknowl• edge Ashby's map did not show tho Mount Curmis ski lift but say the omission docs not bear on lhn fact that Ashby was ..llathat· ting," flying too low and Loo fast. Ashbv denies it. 
Att;>rneys plan to qunstion the 15 military jurors Thursday and Friday in a squat brick building on this sprawling Marine Corps base. Opening statenrnnts are planned Feb. 8. 
The tragedy itself', in which a giant cable car plummeted more than 350 feet, tossing dismcm­borud bodies onto blood•stained snow. will be fresh in many 

Indicted pilots blame faulty map 
minds when the court·martial bngins. A memorial service is planned in Italy on Wndnesday, the first anniversary. 
Ashby, 31, of Mission Viejo, Calif., faces a possible 200•yoar sentence if convictnd of 20 invol· untary manslaughtnr counts. Ile also is charged with destroying government and private propnr­ty and dernliction or duty. 
Tho jet's navigator, Capt. Josnph Schweitzer. 31, or Westbury, N.Y., l'acns court· martial Fnb, 22 on 20 counts each of involuntary manslaugh• tcr and negligent homicide. Charges worn dismissed last year against two other crew members who wern seated in tlrn mar and had obstructed views of the plane's path. 
Besidns the bat! map, Ashliy's lawyers plan to show the pilot may have sur,cumhcd to an opli· cal illusion that tricked him into thinking he was 11ying higher than he was. A crash investiga• tor said he expnrinnced the same illusion in a simulator: When lrn "llew" out of the nar• row valley into the wider area where the lift was. he said grount! appearnd ~ incorrectly -to be falling away. 
Another issue will be wlwthnr the jet's radali -radar altinrn­trr -prop11rly signalnd wlwn­ever tho jot droppod lrnlow 1,000 f'eet, its prescribed mini­mum altitude. The cables wen1 370 feet above the ground where the wing hit tl111111. 
Spinner said the radalt checked out on the ground, and a crnw member said lw lward it before the accident. The altime­ter·s tone had sounded fre­quenlly during the ridge.hop• ping llighl, Spinner said. and the pilot may have not noticed it after awhiln. 
Spinner, a f'ornrnr Air Force prosncul.or who as a civilian reprosPntnd Air Forcn I.t. Knlly Flinn in her adultery case. said tlrn case would rely hnavily on expert testimony, Each sid11 plans lo pro<lucc eight lo 10 experts. 
While tile personal stakes am grnat l'or J\slihy, foreign rnla· tions aw at slake for tlrn Unitml Slates. 
Last yoar, wlwn the Italian government threatened U.S. landing privilngos at tho Aviano air basn, l'rnsident Clinton assured tho Italians justice would be snrvml. 
Giusepp,i l'nntrnlli. spokesman for a Cavalnse rt\Sidnnts associa• tion, accusod tile Unitnd Stal!\s of trying lo minimizn tho acci• dent. Last wnok. hn said tho trial should have bcnn held in Italy. 
"Tlw fact that tlrn two bark· soat crewnwn havn lw11n clnarnd of charg11s t11lls you a lot about tlw way tlrn U.S. is han­dling thn c11so," l'ontrnlli said. "If I said I'm conlident about tlw outconrn of' tho trial, it would Im a lin." 
During tlrn trial, jurors will bP taken 60 mil1is to the Cherry Point Mari1rn Corps /\ir Station. That's honw basn l'or tho Prowlnr, which is desigrw<l to fly at 20,000 foot and usn its radar to find nrrnmy planns and mis­siles and warn fightPrs and homlwrs. Tlwrf' jurors will observe a l'rowl11r in tho air and sit in anotlwr's cockpit. 
lfolatives of the five Belgian victims plan to att1md the trial. at the Mari1w Corps' invitation, said tlrnir lawyer, Turrenen Armstrong. 


be concerned about a change in the non-discrimination clause? 
Fi,duutd"'iugth, WEEK OF ACTION Feb. 1-5 
...... 

NOTE: All films will be shown at 9:00pm in Montgomery Theater (in Lafortune). 
. 
Mond.ay: Wear shoes and rainbows to show your support for the clause. Free rainbow snowcones in LaFortune from 11-2pm. 

. 
Tuesday: 7:00pm in Washington Hall, presentations by Phil Donahue, Pete Cesaro and others concerning the revision of the non-discrimination clause. Films: Love, Valour, Compassion & South Park. 

. 
Wednesday: Fast begins at sunrise. Pick up a copy of the WOA newsletter. Films: Longtime Companion & South Park. 

. 
Thursday: Fast continues. 8:30-9:00pm Vigil at the Grotto. Films: Priscilla Queen of the Desert & South Park. 

. 
Friday: Fast ends at midnight. Go see The Opposite ofSex by N .D.' s own Don Roos at the 


Snite. All sponsored events are absolutely FREE!!! 
.Co•sponsored by PSA & College Democrats 

VIEWPOINT 
page 8-------------------------os~ERVER -------------------Monday, February 1, 1999 
THE OBSERVER 
Norn1,. 0/\Mh Oma: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, [N 46556 (219) 6.'\1-7471 SAINT M,ud.1 OFF!Cf: 309 Haggar, Norre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5.365 
l 998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EotTOR-JN-CmEF 
Heather Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Brian Reinrhalcr Kyle Carlin 
AsSISTANT MANAGING EUITOR Heather MacKcnzje 
NEWs Emma... ............... Michelle Krupa AnYfRTISING MANAGER........................ Brya11 Lmz V1tWJ'OJNT EfllmH .. ........Eduardo Llull An DL<IGN MANAGER. ................. Bn:tr Huehu SPORl"S fDITOR. .. ...•.•... Kathleen Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER..... .........Michael Brouiller SCENE EDITORS.. ... . .. ............... Sarah Dyhg CONTROU.ER .. ... .. . ................... Dave RC1gcro 
Kri:,ci Klitsch Wee ADMINISTRATOR ......................Allison Krilla S.AINT M:un's EnnoR .......M. Sh.mnon Ryun GllAl'HICS EDITOR ...............................Pore Cilella l'HoTo EmroR ........................ Kevin Dalurn 
-~·he Observer is lhe inJ.:pi::n<lenr ncw.c;pap~r pub!isha.-<l by the studt:nt:,, ofthe University ofNotri: Dame Ju l.aL anJ SJ.inr f..-1.lry's College:. II Jm.~ noL nccc~ari!y rdkct Lhc.: polidc.s ufthe .ldmini.m.ui<rn ofri1.ht:r iruthutjon. Th~ rn."'Ns. is r.:porrc.-J .1~_ .K:<.::U£Jrdy a.m.l 1,bji:o:ivdy .i~ pussihlc, Uru!gncJ cJic0ri.ils n,;pn:.s<:m 1hc .;Jpinicm (lfrlie majority of tli.:' [duur-in-Chid~ M,maging b.lirnr, 1U,_.,isram Mornaging EJitnr and Jep.1mnc:n[ t:d1tor.,. Commcnt,Mic~, letter~ and <.:olurnrn prcscm rht· viiew!> of the ,1uthors, ,mJ not nl!ccssarily those ,)fTh.c Olm:rvn. Vit..,vp()in, !ipace is ;1vai!.1ble to all niembl'r:o: llf" che Notre Damc-/Saim \fory's communiry and to al! n·.lder.'i. The free r:xpr~,ion ofvarying npinioiis rhrougl, letter.~ il> enrnuragrd. 
Contacting The Observer Edirnr-in-Chief 631-4542 Businc.,s Office 631-5313 Manai;ing Edi,orl Alsimnt ME 631-4541 Adveni,ing 631-6900/8840 News/Phom 631-5323 Systems G31-883? Sport, 631-4543 Fax 631-6927 Sccrn:·/Saint Mary's 6.31-4540 Viewpoini: E-M.1.l! Viewpoint. l@nd.edu Dov Ediror/Viewpoinr 631-5303 Ad F,.M,il ob,;erver@darwin.cc.nd.ed11 Office Manager/Generol lnformanon 631-7 471 News £.Mail obc;erver.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
¦ LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
The Answer, My Friend 
On the eve of the Board of Trustees implore you, the student body, to show meeting in London this week, an opportu­your support for your fellow students, fac­nity has presented itself to us, the mem­ulty, staff, and most importantly, yoursell' bers of the student body. Tomorrow by attending the discussion tomorrow evening at 7:00 p.m. at Washington Hall a evening. 
presentation will be made advocating,--------::;;:-------------~ 
the addition of homosexuals to the  
non-discrimination clause of this  
University. As many of us are aware,  
much debate has transpired over the  
past few months concerning this  
issue. I would like to take a moment  
to reflect on the ramifications of the  
impending decision.  
Few issues have polarized the  
Notre Dame community as this one.  
On either side of the debate, feelings  
about this subject have taken on an  
enormous portion of the ensuing dis­ 
cussion. Yet. as each side has taken  
shots at the other, the true meaning  
of the amended non-discrimination  
clause has somehow gotten lost. At  
the heart of the issue, more than any  
legal or ethical argument, is simply  
the acceptance by this institution of  
those in the minority. As each day  
passes without a binding non-dis­ 
crimination clause, this University  
fails to be the best that it can be. For this  Whether you support amending the non­ 
reason, the Notre Dame College Democrats  discrimination clause or not, I petition you  
and othfw groups have attempted to  to come and listen to those who will speak.  
heighten the awareness of this failing and  Regardless of the outcome of the vote by  
find a solution.  the Board of Trustees this week. I thank  
Hence, I ask you, the student body of  everyone who has supported acceptance in  
this institution, to listen to your con­ any capacity on this campus. Becausn or  
science, your heart, and your God when  you, in tho immortal words of Bob Dvlan  
you consider the question before the Board  "The times, they are a changin."' · ·  
of Trustees and before us. It is time for  Sincerely,  
Notre Dame to take the lead among places  
of higher education in this country by  Jay M. Smith  
accepting the non-discrimination clause,  Presirlent of Lh,1 Notre Oame College Demorrals  
anything less should be unacceptable to all  January 30. l 999  
members of this University. Therefore, I  




Classic Architecture 
is Hip, Keenan Not 
i\s a11 ,1 rr.hilecturn sludent at the University of Notre Dame, the "Athens ol' tlw 1ww Classicism Movement," I take offense at the description in the "Koenan Tribu1w" of" the new bookstore as looking like a church. The Keenan Hevi<iw is using the power of humor to re-ascribe oppressive atti­ludns towards traditional architecture. Clearly the people whom put togetlwr the revi<1w havo bnen infiltrated with modernist architects. What rnally irks nm is that no traditionalist architects were consulted for the pi()C(!. 
Perhaps a nice op-ed 011 the values of traditional architecture, issues of tnctonics, and tlwories of' Vitruvius and Alberti could have been included. Thal surnly would have been a highly intriguing article and a service to the NoLrn Dame <:0111111unily. Some may say that I am taking the review Loo seriously, but rnully if j}()Oplc continue to go to the review even though it makns fun or tra!litional buildings then more buildings like Debartolo will lJ!• built on this campus. It is a sad day in America when anyone can take llw above seriously. It is an indictment of our country that today in i\nwrica we have become collective whiners. Today in America you must foar huning any p<irsons fodings for fear of reprisal. My ancestors came to lhis country from. Ireland, Cnrmany, and Slovakia. They came to this coun­try al a tinw wlwn stores posted signs for jobs that read "No Irish need apply." Thos1) Wl\re times when true oppression ran rampant throughout this cnunlry. I ask you to think of just how these and other immigrant pop­ulations rost~ to promint•nc<) in this country. "The Fighting Irish" which was 011t:o a slur is 111,w a symbol or our strength, our "Red Badge of Courage." What allm,Pd thorn to succond was not complaining, but rather their work ethic. It dish1\arl1~ns nw that our society has fallen l'rom the work ethic of my ancestors l.o onn or litigious whining. Today people construct issues for the sake of lwing heard. Take f'or example the aide to the Mayor of \Vashington. D.C.. who usnd the word "niggardly" to describe a fund that Im ad111.inist1\l'S. This word is in no way associated with the slur that it may sound hko. llmvtwer because some people mistakenly felt that it was a slur this man lost. his job. What has our country come to'? Must we censor every wore! that so111Po1w may take ol'f'ensn to'? Statements by people like Ms. Curlis in this 1:riday's Obsnrver fuel the downfall or American society from a l'rnn country lo 01m ol' sell'-c11nsor and political correctness. 
Michael Patrick Sullivan 
Fifth-Year Architecture Student January 29, 1999 
¦ Doot.JESf.HJRY GARRY TRUDEAU 



VIEWPOINT 
Monday, February l, 1999-------------------OB~ERVER ------------------------page9 
¦ LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Women Engineers Forgotten, Again 
Tlw Tcclmical lkview, tho University of' Notro Dame's Engineering magazine, is puhlishml four timns each ymir and is i-;1mt lo students in the Collegn of Engineering. Whnn my copy nf' the Technical llnview (the Space Edition 1998, Volume 52, No. 2) found its way to my mailbox this past week, I began to leaf through iL<; pages as I nor­nmlly do. Unfortunately, I became offended, both by what I saw, and by what I did not s1rn. 
On pagn 45 of tlrn magazine, there is an advortiS<)ment for the Technical Review. "We'rn Looking for a FPw Good Men" th,i ad said -a few good men to be a part of tho grPal tradition of' tho UniVtirsity or Notrn Dame. Tho phrase, ''a few good men" is a common onu, it is nvm1 tlrn title~ of' a wondnrful movie, but in its contnxt, the Tnchnical HnviPw use or this phraso fails to rocognize the prcsencn of women cngi­
rwnrs. It appPars to mn that the Technical Beviuw (an official publication of the Univf'rsity of' Notrn l),urn~. as statnd on page :1) clearly is looki.ng for a few good men. While there arr. two wom1•11 listed on the magazine's staff. the Space Edition 1998 includes no articles writtnn by women. There are six men profiled in the magazine, no women. It is nnt my int<mt to deny that men such as /\Ian Sheperd have had a great impact on tlw Unitml States and the world. But what about Sally Ride, the first American 


woman in i-;pace? Or Lt. Col. Eileen Collins, the lirst woman Shuttle Commander? Or Nancy Homan. the first female to hold an executive position at NASA? All t1'r,se women have inllt1enced the U. S. space program, and yet there is no mention of them. 
Onn woman, Shimnon Lucid. was mentioned briefly in the magazine. listed merely as onn of the "American astronauts who served a tour on Mir" (p. 25). The article fails to mention her many con'tributions to the space program and to the internation­al r.ommunity. Not only did Shannon Lucid spend a record 188 days in space. Dr. Lucid hai-; llown on live space missions and is the recipient of one of Russia's highest civilian awards, the Order of Friendship medal. 
Another woman was mentioned in the magazine as well, her name appeared in one ol' the photo captions -Elena Maroka, a NASA employee. The only other woman mentioned by nmrni in tlrn entirn magazine is ,hmnifer Aniston. lier name is not olfored as that of' a woman who is to be respected, but rather as ?.art of a slew of dis­paraging r.omm<mti-; madri in I.he Comedy Relief. Mr. Barry makes various references to pornography (typir.ally seen as degrading to women) in his article. And the "high tnd1 information" he spnaks of involves, really. really dirty pictures of Jennifer Aniston (p. 45). 

Unfortunately. rncognilion of' women engineers is not a failure of only the Technical llnvinw. In my four years at this university {all of which have been spent in pursuit of a hachnlor's dngrne in civil engineering). I have not had a single female instrur.tor in any course nxcnpt literature and theology. Of all the guest spnakers I have listened to in my dassns, I havu heard but ontl fomalc's voice. /\nd from Ms. Anne Ellis, a struc­tural 1111gi1rn11r with the Portland Cemont Association, I received a great deal o[ nncDuragnmont as a woman in a predominately malc-dominalNI field. 
Twicn the Ttichnicul lleview makes refornnce to the future of engineering and tech­nology. "Thn 1wxt g<'trnralion nf' scim1tists, nnginecrs, entrPprennurs, and rxplorers" is mm1ti111wd on pagn 2<J. Tlw uext generation dons not consist only of men, but of "a fow good wonwn as well." By failing to recognize tho presence of women, neither the Tnchnical lfovinw nor the University of N11trn Dame, is doing their Job to inspire the ongimHH"S and explornrs of tho futurn. It is a hopti that tr~clmological advances such as tho spacn station will snrvn to "inspire children to want to learn more about sci­nncn and t~vnnlually purstw carri<!rs in scinnco and engineering" Ip. 24). But it must b1i rnnwmhnrncl that "childrtin" is a t.m·m inclusivn of both you11g women and young mnn. Them an~ wo1mm in the C.olhign of Engineering at this univPrsity. I am one of' tlwm. and I am looking forward to my career as a civil engineer. 
Gina Morton '99 310 Walsh llall gmorton@darwin .helios. nd .edu January 29, 1999 
.' 
¦ .JmtNS HoPl(1NS UNIVERSITY 

Right to Age Rites 
(U-WlllE) BALTIMOHE, Md. -In four days I am going to be 21 yeari-; old. 
Everyone mak~s such a hig deal when I tell them. and they all want to know how I am going to celebrate this grnat milestone in my life. What they rna!ly moan to say is "Where are you going to try your first drink?" Aft11r all, nvoryonc has to have at least a Jit­tlo something 011 their 21st birthday. right'? But I don't drink and have no plans to do so. So what then, if any, is the significance of this birthday I am about to have? 
If you ask people who arc not mem­bers of the Hopkins drinking team, you gnt various answers. Somo say that it's just a number, whereas oth­ers soc it as independence and the entrance into adulthood. 
But is 21 actually tho signifier of adulthood? At 18 yPars of ago your.an join the military, vote, sign any legal document, buy cigarettes and porno, and be tried as an adult. At 21 you ran also purchase alcohol and gam­ble, but you still can't rent a car until you are 24. So when dc, yc,u bBcome a f'ull-llcdged adult? 
Most (mrlier civilizations and many tribal nations have rite of passage rnremonies which provide a clear line lmtwncn childhood and adulthood. 
/\!though they vary in their ar:tual rituals, they all consist of' three parts. Sr\paration, transition, and incorpora­tion. The child must be separated from the family and go through some sort of ritual, sometimes hunting or survival in the wilderness for males and suclusion during the first men­strual period for females, in which they are considered to have earned their manhood or womanhood. Upon completion, they are incorporated into llw adult society and no longer lookPcl upon as children. Most will marry and begin to have children shortly after their rite of passage. 
Modern culture is quite a bit differ­ent. Many religions have. spiritual ritfls of' passage: Jewish children have their Bar/Bat Mitzvah at 13 years of age; CaLholics are confirmed at 12 years old; Islamic children arc expect­ed to begin praying between 7 and 10 years old; and Hindu boys of the Brahmin Cast go through a Sacred Thread ceremony shortly before pub1wty in which they are given a sacred thread to wear around their bodim, and the responsibility to per­form prayers and rituals every morn­ing. /\ spiritual maturation marker docs nol equal or create a social rite ol' passage, and a fourteen year old in theHn cultures is still considered loss than a l'ull-lledged adult-an adoles­cent. 
Tim end of adolescence and the beginning of adulthood is greatly inllucmcml by a culturally set time clock which P.stablishos the appropri­ate liming for particular life events. This sor.ial clock varins between dif­f'nrent cultures, but of'ten highlights 1ivo11ts such as marriage and child­birth. 

Psychologically, adulthood has of'ten been measured by tlrn mastery of Erickson's ldnntity vH. Hole Confusion Stage or the entrance into Postformal thought, but today in most cultures there is no definite lifo event which signifies adulthood. 
Now as the "Educated Class" we find ourselves with even more ambi­guity. Whereas you may be able to find a few over-r.onlident students who consider themselves full adults, most of us arc stuck in this thing called Extended Adoloscence. Sort of a new term in psychosocial studies, extended adolescence is this period where we aro quasi-independent, relying on our parents or sponsors !'or financial stability, but making many of our own life choices. Fifty years ago, most women ages 20-24 were married with at least one child. Now many are choosing to extend their education and fall bt1hind on the social dock. 
As a result, we have begun to create our own rites of passage. As staled earlier, a ritB of passage must have separation, transition, and inr.orpora­tion. Most students have separation. Unless you commute, you have left your home and gone off on your own. It is at the transition stage that we have ber.onrn stuck. Some peopln still believe in the sanctity of marriage and have kept that as the point when they know they will be an adult. 
Others have decided that when they bocome financially independent or reach a certain level of education, they will be an adult. Still others felt they were an adult the second thoir parents drove away on move-in day. This month's Glamour Magazine ran the results of a poll where they asked women when they knew they were an adult. Buying furniture full-price and promotions in their careers were highest on the list. 
Insecure adulti-; who creatP their own rite of passage often begin to wonder if they passed the right test. Men whose marriages failed, or women who reach 30 years of' age and have never been married often challenge their own adulthood won­dering, "Why can't I grow up'?" 
Whatever self-mado rite of passage is chosen, it must be accomplished for the individual to truly feel like an adult. Everyone has an intrinsic need to pass a "test" and prove their adult­hood so that they will be accepted by themselves and others as a bona fide adult. The coveted acceptm~cP as a real adult is the third step of the rito of passage, incorporation. 
Brooke /lard/son is a columnist for the Johns llopkins News-Letter at Johns /Jopkins University. This col­umn originally appeared January 29. 1999 and has been reprinted here courtesy ofthe U-Wire. 
The views P:rpressed in this column are those ofthe author an not rwces­sarily those ofThe Ohser//er. 
'The wise learn many things from their enemies.' -Aristophanes 
Observer. Viewpoint. l@nd.edu 

... 

page 10--------------------------------------------Monday, February 1, 1999 
Much to be desired 'At First Sight' 
'Varsity Blues' can't fake the funk 
caring he is, and she 
begins to look at him in a new way. Suddenly, he undf>f­
"At First Sig ht" 
Director: Irwin Winkler 
stands her and views her like no other person ever
Starring: Mira Sorvino, Val Ki.lmer, 
has -without physically
Nathan Lane, Kelly McGillis and 
seeing her. Through
Steven Web-er 
'·>·) ?'F''. 
~'f.1 ;;'t.,J ''J 
(Out offive shamrocks) By JENELLE WILLIAMS 
Scene ~1ovie Critic 
Sitting in front of a computer screen, fingers poised awaiting divine inspira­tion. it is often difficult to formulate concrete opinions on that which com­pels no serious passion; lhat which docs not elicit significant emotion. This is perhaps the best way to describ" "At f.irst Sighl." It is a movie unlike the tear-jerking, gut-wnmching, love story the commercials strive so hard to por­tray. 
Amv (Mira Sorvino) is a New York architect burnt out by the fast-paced city-life swirling around her. The per­fect solution to her problem, according to her overly concerned coworkers and friends, is a vacation to a spa out in the sticks. Although skeptical. she con­cedes, heading off for a few peaceful and uneventful days. 
Enter Val Kilmer as Virgil, the blind massage therapist whose deep tissue jobs are a little too deep and personal for the emotionally volatile Amy. After carrying the weight of the world around on her shoulders, she lies on the table and breaks down. When Virgil is there to comfort her, she realizes just how some kind of mystical magnetism, they develop a relationship, illogical to everyone in the outside world, including Virgil's overprotective sister, Jenny (Kelly Mc<;itlis) and Amy's ex-husband. 
They continue to spend every possible minute together until one day, after only a short period together, Amy discovers the possibility that Virgil could regain his sight by moans of surgery. However, wken Virgil goes through with the procedure and moves in with Amy. things are not exactly how 

Photo courtesy ol MGM 
Val Kilmer (as Virgil) tries to exemplify what love 'at first sight' really is. 


they expected. As both of them adapt to the n('w lifestyle, life becomes diffi­cult. and their relationship is put to the test. 

The bottom line -this movie is horribly pre­dictable. Bul of course. that is only one of the essential "chick !'lick" ingr<'di('nts presenl. The plot closely fol­lnws the "love" story formu­la, complet(' with stcrnotyp­ical gender roles. She is overworked and under­lovcd. At the brink of a ner­Photo courtesy of MGM vous breakdown, she is suf­Val Kilmer (left) and Mira SoNino (right) star in the 
fering from the frenzied city inspired-from-true-life love story, "At First Sight." 

life she can't seem to leave. And he is going to show her the light. Because, of course, he is likr~ no other man alive -sensitive, observant and friendly; a regular 'saint' with Ice Man good looks. Ob yeah, .:tnd he can give a great massage. And she is the one for him beeause she smells like "coffee cake" and has a deep, seductive voice. 
As a drama. this movie harbors on the border of SOJTI(' serious issues, but unfortunately it chops them up into digestible fragments so as to not disturb the love story: Besides the topics related to blindness -living with a handicap, being accepted by society, etc. -the plot attempts to transform interperson­al dilemmas into something philosophi­cal and profound. This is primarily done in the moments of intense {relatively speaking) emotion between the two given characters. It takes the shape of a misplaced comment, which only serves to harshly disrupt the flow of natural conversation. 
There is one exception. An underlying message that could have been more developed was the concept of comfort zones. Everyone attempts to live in a zone of stability where all is safe, com­fortablc and predictable. And perhaps some people are conlenl existing in this manner. 
But do these people ever really live'! Only when people step outside of their own little worlds, taking a chance to view things from a new perspective, can they fully appreciate life. Only thon are they capable of personal growth, happi­ness and love. While this lheme came up at random moments, it was not ade­quately developed. 
Within one film lies the possibility for two. Potential for an endearing love story and a compelling drama exists in "At First Sight." But these two conflict­ing stories undercut one another leav­ing only a forced melodrama. It is not a movie which provokes thought or stirs emotions, but it is solid entertainment. It is not a bad movie, but it just is not particularly creative. Based on a true story, it is more plausible than, l'or example, "Sleepless In Seattle." Indeed, it follows the love story outline to the letter. So, in that capacity, perhaps it has succeeded. For that reason, though, perhaps it is worth seeing -ii' only once. 
the glorification of the football team. Kilmer is searching for his elusive 23rd district champi­
'"Varsity Blues" 
Director: Brian Robbins 
onship and disregards the grades, health and
Starring: James Van Der Beek, Jon Voight, 
maturation of his play­
Paul Walker, Ron Lester and 
ers for the sake of win­
Scott Caan 

(Out offive shamrocks) 
By JEFFREY Q. IRISH 
Scene Movie Critic 
"Football is religion" is a witticism often uttered on fall Saturdays in South Bend, but it is the true belief of almost all residents of the small hick town of West Canaan, Texas. And West Canaan just happens to be the 

setting for "Varsity Blues," a stereotypical high school movie about the overemphasis put on sports in many communities across t\merica. 
As the seemingly infi­nite commercials· have hinted. "Varsity Blues" is a corporate motion picture (Coca-Cola and Budweiser plugs included) by MTV Productions. The film is void of both originality and reality, though it does produce some likeable characters. 
Veteran Jon Voightplays Coach Kilmer who Photocou~esyolParamount is the deviant behind Van Der Beek loves the ladies in 'Varsity Blues." 
ning. The entire town buys into Coach Kilmer's beliefs except for his backup quarter­back Mox. Mox, played by James Van Der Beek, ("Dawson's Creek) is more interested in 
achieving an Ivy League scholarship. He dislikes football so much that he reads Kurt Vonnegut during his initial few games as a back­up. 
Then as suspected, the star quarter­back is injured in a game, and Mox has to step up to lead the team to victory. Mox also has to learn to deal with some 


of the "extras" that come along with the position of starting quar­terback. 
These "extras" include dating the most attractive cheerleader, not paying for beer and having com­plete control over the football team, both on and off the field. 
Mox is a man of character though, and tries his best to stay away from the delinquent temptations in 
Photo courtesy of Paramount
which many of his Jon Voight (right) confronts quarterback James Van Der Beek in the 

teammates 

inconsistent 'Varsity Blues." 
indulge. Among these delinquents is Tweeder (Scott Caan). who is the wide recci\'er, party animal and fan favorite. Tweedor is immature and witty, and he epitomizes frat boy come­dy. This includes the scene in which Tweeder drunkenly steals a police car at a party, immediately in front of the sheriffs eyes, for the purpose of pick­ing up nude sophomore girls. 
There is a gratuitous amount of nudi­ty throughout th.i film and it is the most obvious reason for the ll-rating. ln onfl memorable scene, the team vis­its a nearby strip club in which the orca-fa.t lineman Billy Bob (Hou Lest<'r) dances wiih Lhe higli school's sex edu­cation tnacher. 
Billy Bob is another main character that provides frat boyish comedy, only he is not nearly as funny as Tweeder. Hackneyed comedy and flatulence jokes are attributes that follow Billy Bob and most of Brian Robbins' other films ("Good Burger"). 
Hobbins' directing tried to do too 

much with a poor script and the film 
simply did not come together. He 
unsuccessfully sought to portray a 
movie about sports, religion, tyranny, 
racism and other woes of a small town. And while Van Der Beek's movie star career is pi:obably over just as quickly as it started, Voight and otlwr act.ors ·gave solid performances that just 
couldn't make a poorly writtPn and 
poorly directnd corporate motion pie­
Lure interesting. 
Overall "Varsity Blues" is humorous 

and entertaining at many parts, but it 
never lives up to its hype or even to 
other high school films such as "Dazed 
and Confused" and the recent "Can't 
Hardly Wait." If you are crazy about 
football or love stereotypical high 
school films them this movie is for you. 
Otherwise a rerun of "Friends" is 
equally entertaining. 
'I 
I• 



-----------------------page 11 
¦ VIDEO PICK OF THE WEEI< 

"Fear and Loathing Las Vegas" 
Director: Terry Gilliam 
Starring: Johnny Depp, Benicio Del Tarro, Tobey Maguire and Mark Harmon 

By CHRISTIAN A. PIERCE 
Scene Movie Critic 
!Jo you find yourself wandering dow11 tho vidno rental aisles looking for sonrnlhing different, only to find rnpoliLivn llollywood garbagn? D<rns it sn1Hn likn Uin plot is always the same nnd only tlw fa.ens changn? 
Woll, tlrn idea or watching another M1•g Hyan-Tn111 Ilanks romantic com­Pdy makt•s Ill«' want to vomit. As I st:lcclcd a f'ilm to rnvicw, I was dctnr­mi11ed Lo !'ind a pioneor, an innovator who like mysritr was tired ol' Llw samo old crap. 
I'm not usually one to be sucked in by crnalivc cover design, but "Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas" made a staLomonL. The cover alone said that this was a film which would push the Pnv1dopP, Laking llrn medium of' film LCI a nnw maim. "Fear and Loathing in Las Yogas" is the nowost project by dirnctor Torry (iilliam, creator of' sucli brilliant work as "Brazil" and "Timn Bandits." 
Typically, his films are labeled as ahsurdist, using ridiculous situations as a m1mns or commenting on 1jresenl day socioty. This strategy of rilm­111aking rnjects many of' tlrn conven­ti 011s of llollywood by oliminaling prndicLahln plots. Therefore, I chose this film with the hope that Gilliam understood my frustration with rncont releases. 
"Foar and Loathing" is based on a notorious autobiographical novel written by llunter S. Thompson in I ')71. In thn '70s, Thompson worknd l'or Sports Jlluslraled and covered such !\V<rnts as a famous moto-cross in Las Vngas. The novnl discusses his VtH1l11rn to Vegas with a rented con­vnrlibl1\ his typewriter and a suitcase f'illod with drugs. 
Well. hoy, it was the '70s right? liv11rylrncly did a littlo drugs. 
Knowing this going in, I expected a road film on the lines of' "Easv Hider," bllt I was seriously lmdnrns·timating the trippy writing of Thompson and 

Photo courlesy of Universal Pictmes 

Johnny Depp plays typewriter-holding 
Raoul Drake in "Fear and Loathing." 
the creative genius of Gilliam. Thompson wrot,i in a style which he coi1wd "~onzo journalism," a form in which lw ru.nts and rav,is on a partic­ular topic. This drug-induced verbal tirade structurns tho f'ilm as wn fol­
low Thompson on his bender. 
The film stars Johnny Depp as Baoul Duke, the character based on Thompson. With his "lawyer," Dr. Gonzo, played by Beniciu Del Toro (based ou Thompson's friend, Oscar Zeta Acosta) Haoul journeys to Vegas lo cover the moto-cross. The duo dri­V<lS from Los Angeles only stopping to l'ill the car with gas and fill tlrnm­selvcs with ha.llucinogcnic drugs. 
The loose narrativc follows Duke and Dr. Gonzo as they persist in trashing every hotel room and casino they f:ntcr while in Vegas. Their 
Photo courtesy of Universal Pictures 
Johnny Depp stars in "Fear and Loathing 
in Las Vegas." 
aclion seem completely ludicrous and Depp's voice-over does little to ratio­nalize their, physical state. Moods swing from those of joy to depression, to psychotic thoughts of murder. We watch as they eat enormous meals, only to see them vomit minutes later. 
At limes the viewer also sees the world through the eyes of the charac­ter's hallucinations. .To reveal any of the details of these acid trips is to do the film injustice. The transitions Gilliam makes as a director are shocking, entertaining and disgusting at the same time. Oukc's trip is painful to watch as one wonders how much or this really happened to Thompson. 
Now in no way docs this film glorify drug use! Gilliam uses Thompson as an example of a 'life wasted with drugs, as the character rarely remembers what he did over the course of an entire week. For me it is this effect which makes the film worth sm:ing -the state of shock that leaves this viewer feeling dirty after watching the film. A viewing of' this film is disturbing. It is one or the only films to actually make me f'eel sick. Not physically sick, but outraged that someonn could actually waste away their life like this. 
I recommend the film not for some sadistic reason. but due to the ctfoct mentioned above. Johnny Depp is pricoless as Duke and numerous cameos nm made by a ratlwr curious range of talent (Tobey Maguire, Mark llarmon, Cameron Diaz, Lyle Lovett, Flea, Gary Busey and Christina Ricci). So if you are sick and tired or the same old films, rent "Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas" and experi­ence Hunter S, Thompson's messed­up rnality. 
¦ CHART-TOPPERS 
High school rules at 
this weekend's box 
office, as newcomer 
"She's All That" 
pulls in at the num­
ber one spot with 
$16.8 million. This 
follows two straight 
weeks with "Varsity 
Blues'' at the helm. 
"Varsity" came in at 
number three with 
$6,2 million. 


Movie Title 
1. 
She's All That 

2. 
Patch Adams 

3. 
Varsity Blues 

4. 
A Civil Action 

5. 
Shakespeare in Love 

6. 
The Thin Red Line 

7. 
Stepmom 

8. 
The Prince of Egypt 

9. 
You've Got Mail 

10. 
At First Sight 



3. 
Six Days, Seven Nights 

4. 
The Negotiator 

5. 
Out of Sight 

6. 
The Truman Show 

7. 
The Mask of Zorro 


8. 
How Stella Got Her Groove Back 

9. 
Armageddon 

10. 
Disturbing Behavior 



Source: Billboard Online 

Gross Sales 
$ 16.8 million $ 6.8 million $ 6.2 million $ 4.8 million $ 4.0 million $ 3.8 million $ 3.7 million $ 3.0 million $ 3.0 million $ 2.8 million 

on 
Q tlh~ate~ W\~art to" 
February 5 

Payback, starring Mel Gibson and Maria Bello Rushmore, starring Bill Murray 
February 12 

Simply Irresistible., starring Sarah Michelle Gellar Blast from the Past, starring Brendan Fraser and Alicia Silverstone Message in a Bottle, starring Kevin Costner and Robin Wright­Penn My Favorite Martian, starring Christopher Lloyd and Jeff Daniels 

--·-.......---···­

page 12 The Observer• SPORTS Monday, February 1, 1999 
¦ NFL

-
Elway leaves retirement question unanswered 
Associated Press thrusting both boosts skyward 
with a huge smile on his face. 
MIAMI "I would love John to come 
For John Elway, the hest back next season," Denver limes have been the recent coach Mike Shanahan said. ones, consecutive Super Bowl When he ran a lap around victories to perhaps close out a Mile High Stadium after the Hall of Fame career. Broncos won the AFC champi­
Elway added another excla­onship two weeks ago, somfl mation point Sunday, joining considered it a farewell to the Bart Starr, Bob Griese, Terry home fans. Not even Elway is Bradshaw, Joe Montana and sure, though. Troy Aikman as the only quar­"I thought about it last year," terbacks to win consecutive he said before the game. "It Super Bowls. At age 38, he is would always be nice to go out also the oldcsl io do it. on top and be· able to walk 
That makes the future ques­away from this game winning tionable. the Super Bowl. 
There was speculation a year He put it aside, though. ago that Elway would retire "1 think the thrill of winning after winning the Super Bowl, the game is really hard to walk but he instead chose to defend away from," he said. "I have to the title. And he did it brilliant­cross that bridge." ly, passing for 336 yards and This year's championship tying the record for the second might have been more difficult longest TD in Super Bowl histo­to achieve than last year's was ry. an 80-yard hookup with Rod for Elway. There was the sum­Smith. as Denver beat Atlanta mertime illness of his wife. 34-19. Janet, who underwent colon 
KRTPhOto 

Super Bowl MVP John Elway evades a tackler in Sunday's win over the Atlanta Falcons, 34-19.
Not bad for an old guy. surgery. Then there were nag­That's why it's hard to come ging injuries that cost him four 

touchdowns. And he capped it players physically even tually be a family decision. 
to grips with Elway possibly games at a time when he said. 

all off by beating his longtime run out of gas. I don't think you "We'll sit down and talkleaving the NFL. He·s simply "I don't have that many games coach. Dan Reeves. with whom ever want to stop playing, and I about it." he said. "If you runtoo good to stop playing foot­left." And finally, there was the he harl a messy feud and split think that's the biggest thing. I out of mental desire before you
ball. week-by-week pressure of 

six years ago. don't want to leave too early. run out of physical attributes,"I don't know, this definitely Denver's 13-game. winning The health of his wife was an and I don't want to leave too then it makes it a little easier." 
puts a chink in it," he said of streak, a run at the second per­overriding issue in Elway's late. either." Neither quality was missinghis plans to retire.If this was fect season in NFL history. 

decision to return this season. That hardly sounded like a Sunday, and that's why thehis last game, it was memo­Still he reached significant "She wanted me to play anoth­man who had made up his Broncos have another Superrable. He walked off the field plateaus during the season ­er year and I think, deep down, mind. Bowl trophy.
with less than a minute left, over 50,000 yards and 300 I did, too," he said. "All football Elway said retirement would 




Deliver Broncos, the first cha.rnphi~~~ip g~i~>in fine,.said police spokesman Angel Calzadilla. 
Atlanta's 33-year history. . . . >;. ·· · · · · On .satllX4ay,I11orI1inS~J.wl;!J~ was .b,pp.o.rn<LwitI:iMIAMI "I hive Etigene>unco.nditio:tiaJly,'' said fl the. Bart.Starr Award by th(:} religious group Athlet(:}sEugene. Robinson is one ofthe NFL's m9st respepted ing poolside during a pregame TV sho ..·.••.·.. • s. . in Action, Balloting is conducted among NFL players
I .. . ...·.. ... . . .. . 

payers. . . .. . .. .. . .. ... ... . I'm conceu1ed; and as far as the leagueJs;fonc to selectthe person who displays "high moral charac-
His bubbly, infectious leader~hip ,vas .a major rea* he can play.'' . • < .• · .•• -for." son the Atlanta Falconsfeaehed their first Super Robinson warmed upas normaLbefo~fthe game, . ''Unfortunately, even as Christians, we do things Bowl. His strong religiousbeliefs, ttsuaUy espoused in · stopping to shake hands with head lines:rna.nSap.ford wrong," Reeves said. "We're all sinners." sermonlike fashion; seemed to ma.ke him arole model Rivers. · · Defensive tackle Shane Dronett said the Falcons in this era of misbehaving athletes. . ·. .· . , Robinson's father, Samuel, said the defensive back remained intent on concentrating on the game. 
But Saturday night, less than 24 hours before the needed to play to help him work throughJI~trou.bh~s. Dronett said, 'Tm sure he's innocent. He was proba-Super Bowl, the Pro Bowl safety was arrested {)fl a "There's a lesson here somewhere,'' be, said in the bly in the wrong place at the wrong time." downtown Miami stteet, charged with soliciting an hotel lobby before the game. .· •..·..·. .·· ··.··· ..· .·. . . ...·.· ·· "He didn't say anything about what happened, and I undercover police officerfor oral sex; · · "While conducting an undercover pr~§titutlQn ~ting, didn't ask him," the father said. "But you could see he 
"I don't believ~it, .•anybody but Eugene," line­defendant drove up ... and off~req the;JJftl.c~r $:W for was crushed. I've never seen my son with that look of backer Henri Crockett saidSunday in the lobby of his (oral sex)," the pQUce report said.. < < •> ·...•• concern and disappointment in his entire life." team's hotel. "I knowwhatkind•of persop he is. There The misdemeanor charge carries 1l. J)Jil,,i;Jm~ s~n· "Youcan't put Eugene Robinson aside, but we've has to be something more to it." .. tence of60 days in jail, but tUOSLfirst;:ti · ·· ffe)jijers gotto do the best we can," Reeves said. "We've done a 
Despite lhe arrest, .Falcons coach Dan Reeves · are offered some combination of com·· ·§etvic:e, good job dealing with distractions this year." 
allowed Robinson to start Sund_ay night against the attending a courseionthe dangers ofs&J. on. and a 
The Observer accepcs classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. co 3 p.m. ac che Nocre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid.
Classifieds 

The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
University Directories offers  ADOPT:Help us make our family  631-3344  3 BDRM, DUPLEX, REMODELED,  B,  
NOTICES  paid,full-time summer sales and marketing internships,open to all  complete.Let us give your newborn a loving,happy home and a wonder­ (ECDC-ND).Please join our fun filled days.  501EDDY ST. 1 Ml. FROM CAMPUS.APPL!­ I love your top. ·M  
disciplines.College credit avail­ ful future·.Expenses paid.Please call  ANCES, W/D. 273·8332  
able.Training program.Great  Lucille and Michael 1 ·800-468­ I love being in charge!  
Spring Break Bahamas Party Cruise!5Nights $279!Includes  resume booster! 1 (800)743-5556 or www.universitydirectories.com  9311.  FOR RENT  Frosty and his evil sidekick.  
Meals & Free Parties'Awesome  5 &6 BDRM HOMES. 1999/2000,  
Beaches,Nightlife!Departs From  SUMMER OR NOW.NEAR CAM­ 
Florida!Cancun & Jamaica $399!  Looking tor a Female Student  HOUSE FOR RENT.  PUS.FURN.GILLIS PROPER·  
springbreaKtravel.com  SPRING BREAK 99!  to assist the Clay High School  TWO BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS  TIES.2726551  Kids­ 
1-800-678-6386  Cancun • Nassau • Jamaica  Girl's Track Team, daily M-F,  4-5 BR. Available June tor  Get excited, he will be here on  
Spring Break Panama City  Travel Free and make lots of Cash!Top reps are offered on-site staff 1obs.All-lnclusive Deals.Special Discounts up to $100  3:00p.m.-5:30p.m. Please contact Head Coach Hamilton at 271-1345, or 235-5858ext. 2565 asap.  Summer, August for Fall. Dishwasher, Washer/Dryer, Full Basement, Large Backyard and Off Street Parking. MONITORED  FOR SALE  ] Sunday. I know that is a lot to han­die. One of us were so over­whelmed that they could not go out on Saturday night.  
$129!8oardwalk Room w/Kitchen  per person.Lowest price  SECURITY SYSTEM INCLUDED.  NEW Rates Phone Cards  
.r  Next To Clubs'7 Parties-Free  Guaranteed.Call now for details!  CAii 289-4712 .  282 min.$20 call 258-4805  
Orinks!Daytona $149ISouth Beach  www.classtravel.com  
$129!Cocoa Beach $149' springbreaktravel. com 1-800-678-6386  800/838-6411  Need child care for my 8 year old daughter 4PM-5:30PM Monday thru Thursday.Good pay.Need car.Call  WALK TO SCHOOL  89 Ford Probe GT (made by Mazda) $1600, call 634 4303.  The babe from Australia might be packing his bags as we speak.  

 Lisa 277-8564 after 6PM  2·6 BEDROOM  Next time tell me that we are going  
.,  ·j1osT&FOUNoj  CRUISE SHIP EMPLOYMENT Workers earn up to $2,000+/month (w/tips & bene· l1ts)World Travel!Land-Tour Jobs up  VOLUNTEERS NEEDED  STARTING $185 MONTH/PERSON 232-2595  TICKETS  to Australia. Sorry about the wrong number.  
LOST:  to $5,000-$7,000/summer.Ask us how!  The Early Childhood Development Center.located at Saint Mary's  BOB DYLAN 1st . 5 ROWS WWF. RINGSIDE 1st. 10 rows  Beware of next door neighbors.  
gold tennis bracelet, please call  517-336-4235 Ext.C55842  College and the University of Notre  ·gg.·oo LOADEDt6 Bedrm. $800  272-7233.  To be honest the whole Valentine's  
Ana Sosa @634-2819  Dame,is looking for volunteers who  mo. 273-0482/234-3831  Day fundraiser really scares me.  
enjoy young children.If you would  
.,  WANTED  Piano Trumpet Sax Guitar & Bass~ Players tor Shenanigans Band-for 3 big shows and optional spring  be interested in spending 2 hours a week reading children's books.building with blocks.and  BED 'N BREAKFAST  PERSONAL  Did he call That's all she wrote.  
break tour.  singing songs with children.please  REGISTRY  Rock the vote!  
SALES & MARKETING  Calf Meg at 4-2573  call Cindy Hestad al 284-4693  219-291-7153  Elections next week ....  
INTERNSHIPS  (ECDE-SMC) or Thayer Kramer at  

• I 
• ...,.......... 

Monday, February l, 1999 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
¦ NFL 
Broncos capture second Super Bowl Championship 
------.--­
<Stut.le~t A~ttv,t,e~ h4~ immedi4te ~pe~,~~ f ier ... 
zi1-frli L.-~u~e M~V'tit~rei J..leu'W"~: z4m -74m <itufts: 1-Z times~ -.Veal< 

-
L--------------------~----------~------J 


Associated Press 
MIAMI What a perfect way for John Elway to say goodbye. 
Tho man who spent his first 14 NFL seasons without a Super Bowl ring got his second straight Sunday, wnaving his magic for what could he the final time and gaining revenge on former coach and aclv1mm.rv Dan Heevos and his upstart J\tlimta Falcons. 
The final score was 34-1CJ ovnr an Atlanta team that was its own worst enemy as the 38-ycar-old Elway. who was the unanimous choice l'or MVP. completed 18 of 29 passes for 336 yards and one touchdown and ran 3 yards for another score. 
The total yardage was third best in Super Howl history. 
ln addition to the ·ralcons, who did everything they could to self­destr uct on offense, Elway's accomplices were; 
-Darrien Gordon, who int,ir­cepted two passes that set up lwo scores and set a Super Bowl rncord with 108 yards in inter­ception rolurns. 
-Fullback Howard Griffith, who had two 1-yard TD runs. 
-Torrell Davis, the league MVP, who carried 25 times for 102 yards for his seventh consoc­u tive postseason 100-yard game, an NFL record set by John Higgins. 
-Wide receiver Rod Smith, who caught live passes for 152 yards and an 80-yard touch­down. 
Despite the absence of tight end Shannon Sharpe, who injured a knee in the first quar­ter, Smith and the other Denver receivers consistently burned Eugene Robinson. the Atlanta safety who was arrested Saturday night on charges of soliciting sex from an undercov,w police ollicer. 

J\11 that helped Dnnver bocomn the first team to win two straight Super Bowls since Dallas did in 1993 and 1994 and the first AFC team to win two straight. sinco Pittsburgh won in 1979 and 1980. 
But for all the Broncos did, the game turned on what thn Falcons didn't do -getting only six points on their first six forays into Denver territory. Their lirst TD came on rookie Tim Dwight's 94-yard kickoff return with 11 minutes left in the game. 
On the others, Jamal Anderson was dumped for a 2-yard loss on fourth and 1 from the Broncos 26, Morten Andersen missed a 28-yard field goal. and Chris Chandler thrrw an intnrcnption to Gordon. 
In all, Chandler threw throe interceptions, two picked off by Gordon, who also had two in thn APC championship game. 
The game turned on one of those failures with five minutes left in the second quarter. 
Atlanta moved to the Denver 8, but couldn't convert on third and goal. Then Andersen, one of only two kickers with more than 400 career field goals, missed a 26­yard attempt. 
On the next play, Smith raced by Honnie Bradford and Robinson and caught the ball in stride for an 80-yard score that made it 17-6. 
The Atlanta loss was the fourth defeat for Reeves as a Super Bowl coach, the first three with Denver in 1987, 1988 and 1990. 


academy award nominee 


The Thief Russia 
Six year-old Sanya 
monopolizes the 
affections of his 
beautiful, widowed 
mother until she 
is seduced by a 
charismatic con-man 
sporting a Stalin 
0800om ~-t .
ousn1ng au I ora1um . 
ree a m1ss1on 
International Student Affairs ~ 

www.nd.edu/-sub
L-------------------­

r --------------------------­
In each of those games, he said, his teams played nowhere near their potential. 
That certainly was tnw Sunday with thn Falcons, who won the AFC Wnst with a 14-2 record af'tnr going 3-13 two years ago, the ynar beforn Hneves took over. 
But evon if Denver's offnnsn hadn't spff'-destructed, the Falcons would havn had prob­lems bncause tlrn dnf'ensn just couldn't stop Elway. Denver srnrml on six of its first 10 pos­st1ssions and was stoppcid twicci b1icausc Jason Elam missnd fidd goals. 
Elway was intnrcnpted on thn other possession and thn Broncos puntnd just once during that pnriod. 
Dwight returned tlw opening ki('kol'f' to his own 37 and tlw Falcons went 48 yards in I 0 plays to set up Andnrsen's :J2­yard (fold that gavn t.hnm a :J-0 lead. They got as fur as the 8, but Bill Romanowski sacknd Chandler on third down. 
The Broncos responded with an 80-yard, 10-play drive cappnd by Griffith's 1-yard dive for a touchdown. The key play was a 41-yard Elway pass to Smith on third and 7 from the Denver 35. 
On the Broncos' next posses­sion, a pass deflected off Sharpe's hands to Bradford, giv­ing the Falcons a first down at the Denver :15. But the Falcons came up short on third and 1, and then lost two yards going f'or it on fourth down when Keith Traylor stopped Anderson trying to run wide right. 
From there, the Broncos drove 63 yards in 11 plays to set up a 26-yard field goal by Elam that gave them a 10-3 lead 5:43 into the second quarter. 
Once again the Falcons thrnat­e ned and didn't score when Andersen missed a 26-yard lield goal wide right. 
That was a killer. 

On the rrnxt play, Smith caught Elway's pass for the 80-yard touchdown. 
Once again, Atlanta moved well -down to the Denvor 11 ­but it couldn't get the ball in tho encl zone and had to settle for Andersen's 28-yard finlcl goal that made it 17-6 at the half. 
On its first possession of the second half. Dnnver thrnatenml yet again. But a holding penalty by Duane Carswell, who replaced Sharpe, pushed tho Broncos back and Elam missncl a 38-yard field goal attempt. 
-----------, 

Monday, February l, 1999 

WOMEN'S BASKETBALL SCHEDULE 

FEBRUARY 3 -VS. BOSTON COLLEGE 
FEBRUARY 6 -VS. SETON HALL 
FEBRUARY 13 -AT RUTGERS 
FEBRUARY 17 -VS. SYRACUSE 
FEBRUARY 20 -AT WEST VIRGINIA 
FEBRUARY 23 -VS MIAMI 
The Friars came up with sim­ilar luck on offense, shooting a
Irish 

dismal 29 percent from the continued from page 20 floor, as only starting guard
Chrissy Vozab and Kerri 
The Friars' defense was Sullivan off the bench scored in unable to keep pace with Notre double digits, 11 and ten points Dame's offense, allowing Hiley respectively. to score 2& in the first half The win caps an undefeated alone and finish with 41 after January for tho Irish, who checking out of the game with started the new year 1-2 in the 
9:15 remaining in the second. Big East and exit 1998 with a Sheila McMillen and Danielle 9-2 mark that has them in posi­Green balanced out the attack, tion to move past conference scoring 14 and 13 points in the leaders Connecticut and contest. The Friar defense was Rutgers for the number-one once again unable to hold in spot. The Irish have not let an check Notre Dame's double-opponent shoot better the 45 sided scoring machine. percent from the floor since 
"[Hiley] is so strong and sup-their last loss, which came on plements that with her great Dec. 30 at Boston College. soft touch," Friars coach Jim The Eagles, who look to share Jabir said. "We couldn't move third place in the conference her and we couldn't double-with the Irish, will come to the down quick enough. She is a .Joyce Center on Wednesday for 
The Observel/Jeff Hsu fundamentally tough athlete to their second season showdown. Sophomore Ruth Riley scored 41 points Saturday versus Provider1ce break1ng the Notre Dame mark. defend . .,_,._, ....,,: """""' . -----~,....~ ' 
.. 
COUNTDOWN FOR '99 HEY SENIORS: CELEBRATE 99 DAYS UNTIL GRADUATION~ 
MONDAY TUESDAY 
(yes, tonight) The Thin Red Line BW-3 Movies 14 All _You cane"at wings Edison Road 5:30 -7:00 PM 8:30 PM 
THURSDAY FRIDAY
WEDNESDAY supp_ort t~p ranked Chuck E. Cheese Alumni-Senior Club Irish Women sBasketball 822 W. McKinley Class Dinner 
Handouts at garne Pizza, tokens, and more 4:30 -6:30 PM 7;30 PM vs. -S.C. 8:00 PM MUST BE 21 
THIS WEEK~ Friday marks 99 days.until we are Notre Dame Alumni. 
99¢ for each event (except b-ball game) 



page 16 -i-c-The Observer• SPORTS Monday, February 1, 1999 
"You have different chemistry side for the rest of the game, Friars never got within striking 26 minutes of play. Wyche and with different players on the was a fact that was not lost on distance again. Graves had nine points each to
B-Ball 

floor that click," MacLeod said Hickey. "We had a good effort today round out the top scorers. 
about the run. "When you "When Providence made that against a great team," Por the Friars, who fell to 6-5
continued from page 20 

[have the players] clicking, you little run, we stepped it up," he MacLeod remarked. "I liked the in the conference and 13-8 Murphy proved to be too much leave them alone. Jimmy Dillon remarked, "which is something way we bounced back after we overall, Connelly and Thomas for the visitors to stop. Murphy had some nice looks and really that we've been working on all didn't play well against Boston led an otherwise balanced hit a turn-around jumper on made things happen on that week in practice. We didn't College the other night. When scoring effort with 15 and 14 the next possession, followed run." yield, and that was pretty you play that bad against a points, respectively. Connelly by a two-handed dunk by While the Irish ended the team, you should get peppered went 5-of-10 from three points Hickey that gave the home first half in complete control, and we did. But we came back range, but his offense wasn't team some breathing room. the Friars tried to change the today and got a total team enough to carry the team near 
"I think that we complement momentum from the opening effort." the end. 
'WEHAD A GREAT

each other well," Hickey said possession. By pushing up their The Irish were led by "We got inside, but just about Murphy's presence. tempo and turning up their EFFORT AGAINST A Murphy, who was back in the couldn't hit the shots," Welsh "When Troy is hot they get the aggressiveness, the visitors lineup at the Joyce Center for said after the game. "Notre
GREAT TEAM.' 

ball to him. and I screen, and quickly chipped away at the the first time after suffering a Dame has good basket protec­when he gets double-teamed, lead the Irish built up After a sprain left ankle during prac­tors. Thoy did a fantastic job on I'm open, so it's a complemen­Murphy slam dunk from JOHN MACLEOD tice several weeks ago. The for­us." tary role and it works both Wyche, the Friars went on a ward had 26 points and 12 With the win, Notre Dame
NOTRE DAM£ BASKETBALL COACH 

ways." I 0-0 run, ending with a leaning rebounds on the day to go moves up to 11-11 overall and 
When the duo of senior and jumper that cut the lead to one along with five blocked shots 5-6 in the Big East. freshman were tightly covered point with 14:21 remaining. that stifled the Friar offense. After a few days of rest, the by the tenacious Providence But. after holding with the important." "He's a tough matchup," team travels eastward for a defense. players like freshman Irish for a few minutes, the vis­In the waning minutes of the Welsh said about the freshman. chance of another series David Graves stepped up, itors finally began to lost their second half, the Friars tried to "He put inside pressure on us. I sweep, this time against Seton knocking two straight jumpers steam. A tip-in from freshman find one more rally left inside said he was one of' the best Hall. to push the lead back up to six Harold Swanagan from Dillon of them, but came up empty. A freshmen in the country the "This victory was the result points. hegan a n-o run for the home Connolly three-pointer with first time we played them. of a lot of hard work," Hickey 
Another Priar run brought team over the next four min­7:16 remaining cut tho lead to Murphy was able to pass said. "It's good to get back on the lead to within three, but the utes, culminating in a two­fourteen, but the duo of Hickey through our double-team really track, but we need to keep on Irish scored the final six points handed slam by Hickey off a and Murphy used thei.r size well today." playing like this." of the half to accomplish some­no-look pass from Dillon which advantage to score the next six Hickey turned in another fine The tip-off between the Irish thing they haven't done since put the final nail in the coffin. points and force Providence performance with 15 points and the Pirates is set for December 29: carry a lead into The run, which kept the bal­coach Tim Welsh to use anoth­and eight boards, while Saturday. 12:00 p.m. EST. the locker room at halftime. ance of power on Notre Dame's er timeout. A(ter that point, the lngelsby chipped in with 10 in 
¦ WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Saint Mary's falls short against Olivet, 67-57 
By MOLLY MCVOY on Saturday, scoring 21 points points for the Belles. theirs. minute to play. Spores Writer for the Belles, 15 of which Saint Mary's was by no Although the Belles could They seemed to simply out­came from three-point field means outmatched by Olivet, stop Olivet, it seemed they maneuver the young Belles and 
What may have been one of goals. When asked what was which may have been the most could not capitalize on their helped Olivet pull out a close the Belles' best defensive the difference, Olivet's defense frustrating part. They went strong defensive play and open game. efforts of the year fell just short and luck stood out. into halftime down by eight but a big lead. St. Mary's had a 54-"We're still making too many Saturday, as Olivet defeated St. "I had my c.areer high; I just were never behind by that 52 lead with two minutes to mistakes," said Norman. "We Mary's 67-57. got lucky," Norman said. "My much again, until the last play, but their youth hurt them just have a lot of freshman. It's 
"It was anybody's game to shots were dropping and they minute. They came out in the again. always a challenge." win," sophomore guard Julie played zone defense which left second half and showed Olivet "It's frustrating," said head The Belles look to turn the Norman said. "It was a tough me open at the three point what they could do when coach Dave Roeder. "We last part of their season around loss, but we've got to just line." everyone worked together. played well enough to win. We with a big home game against bounce back." As is typical for the freshman Their full court press defense don't have a lot of upperclass­Kalamazoo on Wednesday. 
Norman had a career game leader, center Kelly Jones definitely worked and help the men and, as a result, we're This will be one of their last 
backed Norman up with 15 Belles stop Olivet. They tied the going to make mental mis­home conference games of the game at 51 points with four takes." season, and Saint Mary's hopes minutes left to play, and it Olivet's experienced guards to make it a good one. looked like the momentum was took control with less than a 
JlashingtonSemester 
-
l)rJ19Yam 


. Work in an internship 
. Study Public Affairs 
. Fulfill Fine Arts Requirement 
Come to the informational meeting Tuesday, February 2nd 

6:30 p.m. 114 O'Shaughnessy 
Prof. Peri Arnold, Director 346 O'Shaughnessy Peri.E.Arnold. l@nd.edu 
This program is open to students from ALL Colleges 
Love, Your SMC's, ND's, CV 1866 & the 9al6 in Europe! 
I I I; 




Monday, february I, 1999 
The Observer• SPORTS 


HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES 
HCA is a year-long lay volunteer program in six cities across the United States. Now in our 22nd year, and with 37 recent college grads, HCA is looking for adventurous souls for our '99/'00 program year. 
Question and Answer Sessions At The Center for Social Concerns 
Tuesday, February 2 4:00 p.m. OR 6:30 p.m. Wednesday, February 10 4:00 p.m. OR 6:30 p.m. 
Sessions last about an hour, but you are free to come and go as your schedule dictates. 
Promoting growth in: Placements at: 
Phoenix. AZ
Service 
Hayward (Bay Area), CA Simple Lifestyle Colorado Springs. CO Brockton (Boston area), MA
Spirituality 
Portland, OR Community Living Wilkes-Barre, PA Others as we grow! 

Discernment Evenings (Simulating the HC Associate Comm11nity Experience) 
Sunday. February 7 OR Sunday. February 21 
Dorothy Day Catholic Worker House 502 N. Notre Dame Avenues(@ NE Corner of Cedar and ND Ave) 5:00 p.m. Mass 
6:00-8:00 p.m. Dinner and discussions RSVP to 219-631-5521, nd. hcassoc. l@nd.edu 
Rides available (with advance notice) from Notre Dame or St. Mary's Campus 

For more information, contact: Holy Cross Associates PO Box 668, Notre Dame IN 46556 Ph: 219-631-5521 Fax:219-631-6813 E-mail: nd.hcassoc.1@nd.edu http://www.nd.edu:80/' hcassoc/ 
Hockey 
continued from page 20 
Slll'h t,·11tatiVf'.lll'SS would cost tlwm 
lat1•r on. 
With tl11• LPams skating four-on-lin1r, sDphomfll'(' l!yan DoldPr workl•d t11 get a loos!' pu"k along tlw hoards, fighting off two Michigan drncknrs in tho procPss SirH:(' 1with1•r l\lichiga11 playl!r manag.-d Lo Jinish his rhlick on Dolder, liya11 wns 11bl1• to pass tl11• puck to a wid,· opPII Bl'rlOil Cotnoir, who mad 1111· play and look tlH• puck in tlw slot 011('1\ again. Blackburn wus bPal1in liigli hy Colnoir's wrist shot. and tlw Irish had a 2-0 lirst 1wriod IP,HI 
111 tlw f'irst 1)('riod alone, llw Irish wi!n• twi<:r\ Oil the· shorl 1\lld of' live-on­lhrPP skating situations. ypt Mir,higan did not Sl'.orP on PitlHlr <>J>portunity. For till' ){lllllP, NolrP Damn killl\d off all Piglit Mid1iga11 1H1w,·r play oppflrtuni­lil's, 111aki11g till' pn11alty-killi11g unit 28 for its last 2cJ. 
Trailing liy two in tho second pnriod. llH· Wolvnrirws IH•gan to pick up their ga11H•. Michigan's transition game kil'k,·cl i1110 high gPar, catching Noln• lla11w's clnfrnse on a l'nw occasions with long passPs lhrough c1mtnr icn. llowi,vp1•, Pvnn with all th1· odd-ma11 ruslws Mirhigan hnd in the s<iconcl pNiocl tlwy still 1int<•rNI Lim third peri­od down hy th<• sanw 2-0 scorn. 
111 l111• third pciriocl. Michigan finally cnslu•d i11 011 onn of' those opportuni­ti,is. Fr<",hmar1 Sl'nsation Mik<i Comrie rPn•ivNI a long pass at till' bhw !inn and was abh• to gpt around the Notrn llaml' dlll'nns1\, as thP tnams wnrn again skating l'our-on-l'our. Comrin tlwn ])('at hirrnst Karr through his lngs wilh a shot along tlw ice for his team­(llading fnurtn1inth g()al of tlw year. 
Thal play s1•1•rnPd lo turn the ticlP in Mirhigan's favor. Moments after Michigan got on thn board, a slap shot frnm /\11cly .Jurkowski caromed off both posts and managnd lo stay out of tlw Michigan rwl kP<iping Notrn Uamn's lead at one goal. 
Artor Comric's goal, Michigan look 
the game to t.h11 Irish as Notre Dame 
startnd to play a bit mom conservative­
ly. As a result. Michigan was aLle to 
k,wp tlw puck in tlw olfonsivc zone for 
long poriods of time which led to 
numerous scoring opportunilins. 
On rnrn ol' thosn long shifts, after Ben 
Simon lost his stick in the defensive 
zone. Michigan capitalized in front of 
tin• n ct. With out a stkk. Simon 
attempt{J(I lo kir.k the puck towards 
goalle11der Forrnst Karr so tlrn play 
could stop. The puck squirted through 
the pile of' players, and Michigan s1rnior 
Bobby Ilaycs tucked it home to tic the 
game at two, 
Fv<m with the hug,, momt•ntum shift. 
Coach Poulin rnmainnd confident. 
"It never cvcn crossed my mind that WP wcrnn't going to win the game. We OC\edcd a big goal from a big player," 
Im said. 
With b:27 remaining in thn contest tho Irish went on thn power play and th11 big player ·stepped forward. Senior Anikct Dhaclphale, who leads the team in power play goals, came through with the biggest one oJ' his career with just : l:i n~maining on the penalty. Soplwrnore Dan Carlson took a slap shot from the point. and BlackLurn allownd tho rPbouncl to get away l'rom him as Im had donn throughout the gamn. Dhaclphale, as he always senms lo be, was in llrn right place al the right timn to slide the rebound past Blackburn for what turned out to be the ganw-winning goal as the Joyce Center erupted. 
For the night, Notre Dame's three goals wore sr,ored by points leader Simon and co-captains Cotnoir and Dhadphaln. Sonior Forrest Karr sparkl11d in thn net with 26 saves, l'rus­traling Michigan's power play by not allowing rcbounds. It was all in the line of duty as Dhadphalc said afterwards. 
"We needed to step up, this was a key game. We're the leaders of this team. We had to come through and lur,kily we did," Dhadphale said. 

. . . . The Observer/Liz Lang 
Junior Joe Dusbabek added to his two previous assists versus Michigan this season with his assist on Ben Simon's game-opening goal. 

u w •• • r -= u a sas @ cuts t a u a a sac • as a a an ea a 0 A && USC 
The Observer• SPORTS Monday, February 1, 1999 
¦ MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Strategy changes equal success 
·-· w 
... 

By AI.AN WASIELEWSKI 
Sports Writer 
There is a line in the current Notre Dame men's basketball media guide that reveals just how different the 1998-99 team really is: "Irish coach John MacLeod promised his teams would play man to man defense once he took over in '91-'92, he has delivered on that promise and Macleod has no plans to change that philosophy." 
Add one amendment to the last statement: May switch to zone to knock off Big East rivals. In an example just how difficult it is to understand MacLeod's team, he has aban­doned his traditional defensive playbook and created a new one. It worked like a charm against Providence -an 81-62 triumph against one of the bet­ter teams in the Big East. 
The Notre Dame team that beat Providence was a new one. A team this focused, motivated, and dominating has not been seen at all this season. Shots were being blocked, no-look passes were executed to perfec­tl on, and the bench provided the spark MacLeod has been looking for all year. The team effort that was promised .in the Seton Hall and Hutgers games, then lost against Boston College last Wednesday, reappeared in spectacular fashion. 

When asked if he knows what to expect from his team game to game, Macleod indicated that he is as bil.ffled as the rest of us. 
"Tuesday we went to Boston to practice before the game and had one of the best work-outs of the season. Wednesday, Boston College took us to the cleaners. Last (Friday) night, I have to be honest, was what I would call a so-so practice, then we came out and played the best game of the season. It's what young kids do. and we have a lot of young players but they are a greal group of kids." 
The defensive change in phi­losophy isn't the only alteration in the Irish program. The infu­sion of the young talent from freshmen Troy Murphy, David Graves, and Harold Swanagan along with sophomore Martin Ingelsby promises to give the Irish a nucleus to he reckoned with in the coming years. As the season progresses, MacLeod is looking to this young talent more and more. 
lngelsby was the man who led the late charge back to lead Rutgers two weeks ago before the Irish fell to a last second shot. Graves and Swanagan arc both dealing with frnshmen growing pains, but still con­tribute heavy minutes and key points when the game is on the line. 

Murphy's stat line from the Providence game tells its own story: 26 points, 12 rebounds, two assists, f'ive blocks, and three steil.ls. The departure of All-American Pat Garrity left a huge hole in the Irish roster that Murphy has stepped into and let the country know that for the next three years the Irish power forward position will dominate. 
The challenge that MacLcod faces is if he can mold this team into a consistent winner. The changes, adjustments, and per­sonnel decisions MacLeod makes in the next few weeks will determine the outcome of this tumultous season. 


51:SAME 5EED~ER6CiNCMICALLYEN6i!N!:'ERl:D ---­INCREA$!: PAI..M ANONEVER TO ?PILL OP-G!:.T l,;lf5SY FINGER TRACTION 25WCE50FCHEE~ --~ 5ECURE.LY ANCHOl'­TWIN PICt<LE$ fLAMl:•eROILED PATT"IE!:> ~ P->ALANCED -='HOC/<-~l'!-P'TlON UNIV0e:~AL CU~E FIT':> .J,i,JY HAND '"'IZE LOWE"~ P->UN CU9'HION$ AND Ci<!AD!-E~ PRE"CIOI» Cf>.PGO "I <S~AM<;; l<loTCHUP ~<:i/11'.AM~ MU~TA"D '-----­r,,10UTHI\IATERit-lGTA">TE STA!?>ll..lZE 1-1O1'.l'ZONTAL l:.NCOURA61;'::> ~E:F~IFT<;; CAl'E:.P'UL HANOI.ING THE FIRST BURGER ENGJNEERED WITH TAKE-OUT IN MiND.  
-THE DOUBL.E CHf:ESEe>URGER. ONL.Y 'i~(f FOf< A LI MI TE D 1I M e. DRAWING NO. JOB NO. C:,C:,01 {PRICE AND PARTICIPATION MAY VARY.) DATE I/C,C::, The Huddle -LaFOltune Student center SCALE FULL 0 1900 BWtGU. IWll6 C01t,OAATION. CIUlt/JER K.ING co1r:rou.noN 15 THE e'.XCLU61~ UC!N5EE'. OF iHf "TT JUST TASTES &ETTE~• ITAPt.MAltk ANP THE REGISTERED •HAVE IT YOUR W>.Y" ANP BU~ HAlVE5 lOGO TRAOEMAICl('S.1DRAWNBY l\f'l"  ~ BURGER KING e When You •HAVE ITVO!ll WAY9"' ~ IfdllSTTASTES IETU'.~,.,  


Monday, february I, 1999 The Observer• TODAY page 19 
LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD OF ND 

FOXTROT 
tT 8oGE,LES ltiE  IT'S TH1S  EVERY TtME I TRY To kill  
MINO HoW MVCl-f  ~E ()ARr-(  HIM, HE SC!JUAStlES ME  
TtME You'VE SPENT  LEVEL! I  FASTER Tl-iAN You CAN  
PIAY•NC":I THAT v1oeo GAME.  CAN'l GET PAST THE  BLtNI( 1 1T·s IMPoss1BLE , I'VE BEEN AT TH1S foR  
1 \IQ  RED oRB  A Mo'NTH New.'  
GUARDIAN!  \  
DILBERT  

DO '<OU THlNK I 
HAVE TOO MUCH FALSE HUMtLIT'{? 
E 
' t::
.8 
'c 


.........L--.-'-IL.--J-...L.-,.--Jl~i.c.l-~i:::::::.:..~~ 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE J A M E r--ir-:E:-r:G:-r:A,.,-N.,., 
630n 
64 Penny purchase, years ago 
66 Fish entree 67 Treasure store 68 "This round's 
--!" 69 Bridge whiz 
Sharif 70 Gung-ho 11 Poverty 
DOWN 
1 Flower part 2 Be wild about 3 "Beau.--• 4 Shenanigan 5 Paper towel unit &"Going--, 
going ..." 1 Meadow 8 Slow, in music 9 Opposite of 
youth 
10 Penny purchase. years 
ago t Catchall abbr. 12 Kotter of "Welcome Back, Kotter" 13 Certain herring 18 Pain 
TR"< GOIN~ A WEEK WITHOUT U5ING ANY FALSE \-\IJMlLIT'<, 50 
I CAN SEE Tl-IE 
OIFFE.RENCE. 
C 199119111 AIMr10IU1sl by UnNlrul Pren Synclicat~ 
I SWEAR,lti•S 
GAME 15 
DEF'ECTf'IE. 
! 
.. 
G 
u 
;, 
r
... 
<II 

Puzzle by Fred Plscop 
30 Wildebeests 
31 Thanksgiving side dish 32 Almanac tidbit 
33 Money in Milano 34 Fusses 35 Penny purchase. 
years ago 37 Model train layout, often 41 Not present: Abbr. 44 Gosh-avrful 
48 Pinpoint so Realtor's unit 
52 Quotable 59 Elementary catcher Yogi particle 54 Access the Net &O"Damn 55 Cockamamie 
Yankees" vamp 56--fatale &1 Cro-Magnon's home
57 No longer a slave 62 Frankfurt's river .,,,. 
58 El--, Tex. 65 Machine tooth 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95~ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50years; 1-888-7-ACROSS . 

Saferide now expanded t<J -rhursd,l~{!S!! 
l'hursdays  10:00 Pl\1-2:00 J~~v1  
Fridays  10:00 PM-3 :00 .Aivl  
Saturdays  1o:oo Prvt--3:00 J\.~v1  

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will be in the mood to get busy a,nd get 
WAKE. UP I '<OU PIECE 
OF t='ETIO CARP I A.ND 

active. Competitive sports will be most exhilarating. You must watch
EXPERIENCE. ii-IE 'JO'< 

your pocketbook. You can have a 
OF K1'lOWrNG r:;::;;:;;:;.,::;::;::=;;..;~!I OOGBER.T !! 

Wanted: Reporters and photographers. Join The Observer staff. 
.,. . 
DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Lisa Marie Presley, Jessica Savitch, Princess Stephanie, Terry Jones, Garrett Morris, Jayj Jacobs, Clark Gable, Sherilyn Fenn, Andy Mill, Sherman, Hemsley 
Happy Birthday: Today is the beginning of a new cycle for you. Put the past behind you and get prepared to make a difference. You are ready to make the necessary changes that in turn will make you happy. Time's a'wasting; make your move. There has never been a better time than now to take control and move into fast for· ward. Believe in yourself and so will everyone else. Your numbers: 2, 7, 9, 15, 27, 39
BILL AMEND 

ARIES (March 21-April 19): Trav­el and social events will be satisfying. You find that disruptions will make
TI-11S~TliE I'M SERloUS. 

you change course or lead you in a
SoY W•Tl-f 18 I'U GIVE 

direction you least expect. Be adven­OOZING BLtSTE~S IT TWO 
turous and go with the flow. 00000 ON HIS lttUM8S. llioUSANI) 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You can tum things around if you do a lit­
I MoRETR1ES, 

tle soul-searching. A visit lo the gym
,,~ 
THEN I'M 

will give you an outlet for your frus­
~UITTtNG. 

trations and promote new romantic encounters. 00
I GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't be too quick to agree to pending set­tlements. You need to look at the sih.t­ation objectively. Ask a good friend for advice. Make purchases for your home that will bring comfort. 0000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You can make your mate happy if you give your undivided attention. You don't have to spend money or exag­
SCOTT ADAMS 

gerate the way you feel. Just spend quality time together. 000 
~time without being extravagant. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Put 
your efforts into self-improvement 
projects. Consider a new hairstyle or 
anything that will enhance your 
appearance. Ignore critical comments 
made by others. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Emo· tional upset will surface if you have been involved in secret activity. You will have to dig deep to find out the facts. Someone close to you knows more than they are letting on. 0000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov, 21): lf you can get away, you will find the trip most relaxing. You need to get some peace and quiet, rejuvenate and think about your future plans. It's time to let go of the past. 00 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You can put your cash on the table if you are sure tha( you are going to reap the benefits. You must put your ideas into play Someone you know is interested enough to help. 00000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Make up with old friends or lovers. Don't hesitate to let someone know how you feel and what your inten­tions are. Reading will bring valuablr information. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't shy away from secret financial dealings. You may have to spend some time checking over the personal papers of a loved one. Try to offer reassurance that everything is fine. 
000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-Much 20): Pas· sion is a must, Your partner will be most accommodating if you send out the right signals. Make a solid com­mitment if you feel the urge. Your partner will be affectionate if you're attentive. 000 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Long story 5 Rich kid in 
"Nancy" 10 Panhandles 14 Shancri-la 15 Hoopster 
Shaquille 16 One of the Four Corners states 11 Penny purchase, years ago 19 "Ali --and the 
Forty Thieves" 20 "A" or "an" 21 Incomprehensi­
ble, as a message 23 Parasite 24 Business bigwig 25 Miss Kett of old comics 
2elivel1ness 32 Custard dessert 
36 "Horrors'" 38 Rocket stage 
39 Gofer 
40 Jelly fruit 
42 E pluribus ­
43 Throng 
45 Seize with a toothpick 46 Forest growth 
47 Mortarboard attachment 49Actress Lanchester 51 Grand jury's activity 53 Pueblo site 58 Jack of ''City Slickers" et One making a medical mquiry 




¦ Broncos capture ¦ Men's basketball second consecutive coach John MacLeod's Super Bowl title. recent choices have 
produced success. 
p.13
PORTS 
p.18 


Oo
THE 
¦ HOCKEY 
Irish knock off Wolverines, 3-2 
By TED BASSANI 
Spons Writer 
On Saturday night. the most anticipated game of the season for Notre Dame lived up to its billing. 
An enthusiastic sellout crowd, in addition to a large number of professional scouts, was on hand to vrntch one of the best college hockey games of the year. Furthermore, the crowd itself played a role in the outconw. Thf' f'lertriritv in lhe air for the game against arrhrirnl '.\liehigan helped carry thf' Irish to an exciting 3­2 win. keeping them in fourth place in the CCI IA standings. 
Jason Gola and the rest of the Irish Goon Squad helped pump up the crowd. and their efforts caught the attention of Notre Dame's players and coaches alike. 
"This is what I envisioned when I came to Notre Dame," Irish head coach Dave Poulin said afterwards. "The whole evening was great: the atmos­phere, the game, the spirit, the enthusiasm, the crowd. That's terrific college hockey." 
"The start of the game was awesome," said junior Ben Simon. "It's never been that loud before...In the third peri­od, I think !the noise] really picked us up." 
In the early going, Notre Dame took advantage of some tired Michigan skaters by using their great team spend. On Friday night, Michigan played an exhausting road game against their biggest rim!, the Michigan State Spartans. Therefore, playing another road game against a team who are undefeated on home ice and were fully rested, proved a tough task for the Wolverines. 
Before the game was two minutes old, Notre Dame's team speed drew first blood as center Ben Simon scored his thirteenth goal of the year. Simon snapped a wrist shot high and to the stick side, and the puck went into the goal just under the crossbar for a quick 1-0 leacl. 
"We have a lot of speed on our team and we like to go wide on teams," Simon said of his goal. "Our game plan was to hit them early and with the game before, it took its toll on them for the weekend." 
Junior defenseman Andy Jurkowski earned his first point of the season with his assist on Simon's goal. 
In the first period, both teams played with reckless abandon in the offensive zone with a ferocious forecheck. In their defensive zone, however. Michigan seemed a bit tenta­tive and let the Irish dictate the flow of play in their zone. 
see HOCKEY/ page 17 


The Observer/Liz Lang 
Senior Aniket Dhadphale scored the game-winning goal in Saturday's upset of Michigan, 3-2. 
¦ MEN'S BASKETBALL 

ND's stability key in victory 
By BILL HART higher when Jamel Thomas hit a three-pointer Assistant Sports Editor to give the Friars a 15-8. But with the same gritty determination they 
There have been many words used to describe have used all season, the Irish came back. A the men's basketball team this season, but "con-three-pointer by guard Martin lngelsby started sistency" has not been one of them. Notre Dame on a 14-0 run over the next 3:39 to 
While it is common for a team With sometimes take a commanding seven point lead. En route to as many as three starting freshmen to struggle a 26-17 lead, a three-pointer from Wyche with with lack of experience, vari-12:22 remaining in the first ous obstacles have tried to brought the Irish their first slow down whatever momen-, ITS GOOD TO GET BACK lead change of the game, putting tum the team has created. them up 16-15. As it turned out, Having used four different ON TRACK BUT WE it would be the only lead changn starting lineups in the last five NEED TO KEEP PLAYING LIKE of the game. games, the Irish were looking THIS.' "For every game, the team is for some stability to carry going to have some jitters," them through the rest of the junior Jimmy Dillon said. "Once 
season. PHIL.HICKEY they missed a couple of shots, This weekend, they just may and we made a few, we were have found it.. NOTRE DAME BASKETBALL PLAYER definitely more comf'ortable. All 
Bouncing back from a loss it takes is one shot to get a team earlier to Boston College, the going." Irish completed their first sweep of a Big East Just as quickly as the Irish pulled up, however, opponent this season. soundly defeating the the Friars attempted to strike back. After Troy Providence Friars 81-62 Saturday afternoon at Murphy's tip-in pushed the lead to nine points, the Joyce Center. shooting guard Sean Connolly hit a three-pointer 
Early on, the Friars attempted to take the to make it a two possession game. crowd out of the game. Using an aggressive That lead quickly dwindled again as a steal defense and relying on perimeter shooting, the and another long-range shot from Connolly visitors scored the first five ,points of the game made it a 26-23 game. and forced Irish coach John Macleod to take a llowever, the Irish pair of Phil Hickey and twenty-second timeout. That lead grew even 
see B-BALL/ page 16 
¦ WOMEN'S BASKElBALL 
Riley sets recotH 
again,st ·tlJ.e Rtiats·.· 
By ANTHONY BIANCO .. , >i ;i,t: ·thatl"ecor.:l;'':cr!lµ-eysaid. "My Assistan~ Sports Editor •. .•..... . ...... ... . < stster V!'.a;§J:1-,tJfJe,,g.rme. th~ 

.... 
night \(;r,it.h~i:l S~OJ:r~ .~o.,.
Two· times they tried a.rid When, she tol<I me tiboutit, 4 
i;ivi~~~:: c~~ra~!~81rom ... ~:~;ri~1i~?!t~in~~~~!ege. 
two meetings with t~e Jrfi.,li }'~e jl pot.nJi, 
broke 

I.his ·season unable to contain .. 6~foot-5 center Ruth Riley: · Saturday night the.. Fda.rs. ..... 
did even Jess tha.n that, a.llowM fogRtley unchecked free-reign on the· hardwood/The sophomore center·shot·lS­for-22 from the Jl0.9r. and chipped in another.: flvo points from the charity line to tally a school-record 4 l points in Notre Dame's g7_59 win against Providence. 

> 
Riley stole the lrislr record from another center, :Katryha Riley's previ•.. ·.. 
high·of!'36; w .·•... ciurle back alth:e ~oilc:e·ceµter<on .:Jaq, 10~ llil1$.y ~mld tbfl a4vJtntage ir1...·b0Jh.·.·...·~eetings. vvifh Providence·s Dani Trippany missingallbutonega!Jlethis s~asqn. ~ith a stres5,.(r4cture, Th~ ~~fpok§)[>I?,h.9{ll9r~ wafreplaced ,iil fh(f lineup S'a.tutday , with· • 6•foot~2 
· MohlkaRoberts, · ~rm ~Uff\ having.:th'.'At fi.rS:t. game ~:gaJn$t ffrovidenceJ, -gave;'.h'dt.·~·~t6t6fcQritidE1t1c~. 
Gaither, The .. 1997 graduate n ,for,tanight;¼Jris.h. head,coach• set the previous markwith.41) ...tvfuff!;t~~Qrn;y §?:i1• {';[ QQJ,1;l points and 17 fielcf goafa'.in a ·t~in1'.tljeyh'lld.~nyo11~who.·. 
contest against Ohio could st()p l,lor.•· , .·. ·· University in 1996. . .. .• :¥; 
"It.'s a great l:wnvrA;o .have.,. ''fi·•· 's~·JR.JSl'-Ifpagctl4 
vs. Boston College 

Men's and Women's 
Wednesday, 7 p.m.
SPORTS 
Tennis 
vs. Michigan Start: 

ac Rolex National Indoors
ATA 
Friday, 7p.m.
at Seton Hall 

Thursday, all day 
Saturday, 12 p.m. 
GLANCE 






