¦ Critics review "Patch Adams," "Waking 
¦ Disaster shook the city ofAbidjan, where rebel 
Monday
Ned Devine," and highlight the upcoming 
leader Foday Sankoh's death sentence instigated waves 
Golden Glohe nominees. 
of anarchy and destruction. 
JANUARY 18, 
Scene• 12-13 
World & Nation • 5 
1999 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

-.:,~~A< 
i< 

, Vision 
As the legacy of his civil rights crusade passes from one generation to the next, Notre Dame students gather this week to celebrate the dreams and the realities of one 
of history's greatest leaders. 
;' This year, the University celebrates the 70th anniversary of Dr. Marlin 
Luther King's birth with "The Norm of Greatness: Daring to Seek Urn Trnth,"" a presentation aimed alt applying Dr. King's message to the prnsent. "What we're doing is challenging people. because we all know what Dr. King 
stood for," said Iris Outlaw, director of' Multicultural Student Affairs. "but unfortu­nately, for your Ithe students'] generation. that is all history." 
"We, the older generation, have lived through the March on Washington," said Outlaw. "We have actually seen and heard Dr. King's speeches. A lot of people just know 'I Have a Dream.' We're challenging students to see how we can move from 
what he started back in the '60s and make some difference in our lives." The bill creating a national holiday to observe King's birthday was sigrrnd in 1983, and first nationally observed in 1986. Notre Dame began organized observance of the holiday in 1992. 
That first year, the holiday was marked with a prayer service, which f'eaturnd tlrn Voices of Paith choir, as well as student recitations of King's speeclws. Whil11 this first service was presented from a uniquely African-American perspcctiv<~. tlrn scopti of tlw 
holiday has sincn grown to incorporat.n all ethnic backgnnmds. "Dr. King was del'initely a hero in human history," said assistant din!ctor of Campus Ministry Priscilla Wong. "And he was an Af'rican-Arrn~rican. so it's appropriate to celebrate with I.hat focus on his lrnrit.agn." "The subsequent year, we still wanted to put that rnsp!ict in the cPlehra­
Uon, but we also wanted to ho morn inclusivn: for all pnopl11 and not. just f'or minoritins," said Wong, who has worknd closely with Multicultural Student Affairs in planning Martin Luther King Day nvnnts in llw past. 
"That's tlrn community that Dr. King wantnd lo build." Today's celebration of Martin Luther King Day at Notr,1 Damn 1·11prn­sents the fruition of' that ideal. "What we have done is marn it an inclusive statnmnnt, lrnrausP Martin Luther King wasn't about Al'rican-A,rniricans," said Outlaw. "111• 

was  indeed about all disenfranchisPd groups,  rngardless ol' tlwir  
color."  
-Finn Pressly  
70 Years in the Making  

Though King's life met a violent end, his legacy of peace and justice continues .lt Notre Dame and throughout the world even today. For additional coverage of' the civil rights' leader's life and enduring impact on society, see page 7. 

Division III Belles show 'the love of the spore 
By M. SHANNON RYAN S.1im M.m.-s Edirnr 
.lini Cook notkns one glaring dilTPrnnrn lwtw(wn tlw wo11w11 slw c11ad11·s at Division Ill Saint Mary's and lwr-wll' as a Division I acarf ,.rn ir all-Anwrican at \,\'pst Virginia Univ!~rsity: tlll' wonwn slw trains low tlw sport. 
Playing without aLlllPliC' srhol­11 rsh ips and _juggling multipln PXtra-rurrinilar adivitiPs, !wavy a1·,11IP111ir workloads and jobs, llu• typical BPlln plays llw ganw for lhP slw11r !'lljoynwnl of com­pPlition. 
"Tlw woml'n I'm coa1'11ing, I rnn s••n that they lovl' it. I didn't lov1• ii ,rnymorl' /in collngi~l." said Cook, also Saint Mary's assistant clirnctor ol' athletics and recre­ation. "It was likn my job. I got paid Iwith an athletic scholar­shipI to do it. Nobody's forcing tlwm to walk through that door for pra!'!.icP." 
Saint Mary's has lwld fast to tlw Division Ill philosophy whom studPnt-a!hlotps' priorili<1s are nxpPctnd to nist in the classroom first and 011 tho courts spcond. In fart. what altract!'d many of Saint Mary's I00-plus studnnt­athlntns lo tho school was not the draw of athl1\tics, but the promisn of a valuable nducation. 
"I lookod at schools for their acadnmics." said .Johna lndriolo, a junior nclucalion major and a loll finlder on the softball team. "I liked that at Saint Mary's the focus was bning a student first and an athlPte second. I also 


··~ ../:", 
~ fu1da¥ Feature 

k1rnw Lhat at a smaller school, prol'Pssors would be more understanding of' my sclrndule." 
Although playing without an athletic scholarship has its sharn of drawbacks, lndriolo has found enjoyment in offoring her talents wilhout a price. 
"Not being on scholarship takes tho pressure olT. It makes it morn fun; it's not lik11 a job," she said. 
Agnes Bill, a captain on thn volleyball squad, opted for a blue and whitn uniform dnspitc tanta­lizing rnr.ruits from Divisinn I Ohio University and Division II Oakland University in Michigan. 
"Besid11s being incriidibly ath­letically demanding, I'd lm trav­nling a lot, and I wouldn't b<' in tlw classrooms enough," Bill said. "Hight now, I get a lot of playing time and I likn what I do." 
lndriolo also noted tlm oppor­tunity for playing time that slw might not havP rociiivPd at a largPr institution. 
"I just dncidnd lo try out frnsh• man ynar ... and I got tlw oppor­tunity to play," slw said. "I just wish all lhn peopln who wnrn good at sports ... would try oul." 
Many lirst ynar studm1ls, how­ev1.1r, rannot hanclln tlm rigorous demands of' bPing a Saini Mary's athlntP. 
"Freshmen am ovnrwlwlnrnd," said .Ian Travis, clirnclor of' ath­lotics and r<'ITPal.ion. "I don't think anyorw coming in 1·.an hav1\ a trun undnrstanding of what academics an• at Saint Mary's." 
see ATHLETES I page 4 


page 2 
¦ INSIDE COLUMN 

National 
Holiday??? 
Todav  is  Martin  Tim Logan  
Luther King Day.  Associate News Edi tor  
Yes, that's right, it's  

Martin Luther King Day, not just the first Monday of classes or the third Monday of January, but the Monday that our nation remembers the most respected champion of equality and justice it has ever had. More than just a civil rights leader, King was a voice for the ideals that America was founded on, and a voice that must never be forgotten. 
Why then, does Notre Dame not remember Dr. King? Why does this University not pay homage to King's memory and message by canceling classes and hosting forums and lec­tures dedicated to passing his creed down to a new generation'' 
Why is this just another Monday? 
The given answer, of course, is thal Notre Dame does not celebratf' any national holi­days. On this campus, you wouldn't know it was Columbus Day, Veteran's Day or President's Day beyond the Notre Dame bub­ble unless you were trying to reach a University staffor {except for teaching faculty, most of them get the day o!D. However, for any institution ·or learning, and especially for one like Notre Dame, King's birthday is more important than those other holidays. It is more important because of what King stood for. 
This University prides itself on providing "an education in values," and the values that it teaches are those of peace, dignity and respect -the same values so cherished by King. Notre Dame also prides itself on its con­cern for social justice. King was perhaps the foremost champion of that social justice to ever call himself an American citizen. 
Shouldn't Notre Dame take advantage of this opportunity to foster a spirit of social jus­tice in King's name, or does the University feel that it is doing enough already? 
This is not simply about getting a day off. While the occasional long weekend would be nice, there seems to no longer be any great significance behind most of the national holi­days that fall during the school year. Columbus is widely regarded as a genocidal imperialist, why should we celebrate him? In our current political climate, President's Day will probably only spawn more tasteless cigar jokes. If not celebrating these days means we get a week oIT in October, that's fine with me. But Martin Luther King Day is different. 
The problems which King addressed are still present in our society. Racial inequality and economic injustice are still taking their toll in the U.S., and violence is still not the answer. 
Closer to home, the problems which King addressed are still present on this campus. Notre Dame has consistently been listed among the worst universities in the nation when it comes to race relations, and the situa­tion doesn't appear to be getting much better. 
Fortunately, there are people here under the Dome working to change that. Last spring, there was a rally to commemorate King's death and celebrate his message, diversity and prejudice reduction workshops are becoming more common on this campus, and there will be several events this week dedicat­ed to King's memory. While this may be progress, it is far from enough. If anything, it repnisents a start from which to build better race relations at Notre Dame, and honoring King's creed with a day of true recognition would be an exceJlept h11iloing block. 
!~~P~Y ~~;li.rt!ii I...uther King Day. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
¦ TODAY'S STAFF 

News Scene 
Chrntine Kraly Mike Vanegas Finn Pressly Graphics John Bourgeois Scott Hardy 
Sports Joe Mueller 
Kacie Miller Production Viewpoint Kachleen Lopez Eddie Llull Lab Tech 
Joe Stark 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-40001 is published Monday rhrough Fridav cxccpr during exam and va.c~tion periods. The Observer is a member of rhc Associa[ed Prc.'>s. All r~prod ucrion rights .are re!>erved, 
The Observer• INSIDE Monday, January 18, 1999 


utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Religious group wins battle over mass mail delivery 
HANOVER,N.ll. 
the book. In what appears to he the conclusion 

. Two additional paragraphs were to more than a month of controversy, 
added to the original letter from last the Campus Crusade for Christ yester­
DARTMOUTH 

term detailing the reasons for the day distributed free copies of the C.S. 
mailing delay, including the controver­Lewis book "tvfere Christianity" to all 
sy. members of the freshman class. 

"After a long and very thoughtful Members of the Class of 2002 
consideration of all the issues involved received the books in their Hinman 
CoLLEGE 

we believe that ultimately it is best for Boxes more than a month aftf'r they 
you to decide what to do with th1~ mail were originally scheduled to receive straints prior to the winter interim. you receive," the letter states. 
them. Near the Ilinman Boxes, two recla­
The CCC ultimately decided to send "Mere Christianity," which is an auto­

Dean of the Tucker Foundation Scott mation boxes were set up by the CCC Brown temporarily stopped the books' biographical account of Lewis' conver­f'or students to deposit their books if 
distribution in early December sion to belief in Jesus, to all freshmen they did not wish to accept them. at a special meeting of the group's
because of concerns from campus reli­Brown said he found out about the gious leaders that the book might membership last week, CCC Director decision to mail the books yesterdayChris West said. 
offend certain students and that the and that it did not wncern him. mailing violated their voluntary agrne­lncludnd with thf' books were lettf'rs "I was glad they did it," Brown said. ment not to solicit students. from the organization describing the "I was concerned they would feel over­
book, its author and what the group

After a meeting of all the religious ly constrained by the circumstances in leaders, Brown decided to allow the December and I wanted them to feel
sees as thr importance of the novel and learning about Jesus Christ. The

CCC to mail the book, but the group they could mail it out and was glad 
did not do so because of time con-letter also encourages studenls to read they did." 
¦ UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA Researchers develop AIDS treatment 
TUCSON, Ariz. 
A new AIDS treatment developed by two University of Arizona researchers that would bolster the health of patients suffering from the immuno-deficiency disease is on its way to the market. Researchers Ronald Watson and John Marchalonis are awaiting for formal issuance of a patent on an immune-boosting receptor peptide therapy approved earlier this year. After further tests by the drug company Allergene and FDA approval, the treatment could be available in three to four years, Watson said. While con­ventional treatments aim to kill HIV, the two researchers have discovered a peptide which strengthens the body's immune system before patients plunge into full-blown AIDS, said Watson, an Arizona Prevention Center research profes­sor. "The idea is, if your treating to kill the virus then you might do something to benefit the immune system at the same time," Watson said. 
¦ UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA 
Student diversity on the rise 
TUSCALOOSA, Ala. 
In spite of the racial conflict that has scarred the repu­tation of the University in the past, the University is now a national leader for enrollment a·nd graduation of African-American students. The University has been on a plateau since the mid-70s regarding enrollment of African-Americans, said E. Culpepper Clark, dean of the College of Communication and Information Sciences and author of The Schoolhouse Door: Segregation's Last Stand at the University of Alabama. "The attempt to enroll more black students was rapidly underway in 1966, and a major effort was made that year," Clark: said. "The most dramatic change in the number of African-American students occurred principally in the '70s." According to Clark, African-Americans now com­prise about 13 percent of the student population at the University. 
¦ UNIVERSITY OF MlfJNESOTA 

University offers testing alternative 
MINNEAPOLIS, Minn. 
HIV testing for college students is often a scary, emo­tional and even embarrassing experience. Beginning in 1990, Boynton Health Service began offering confidential testing to make the experience easier on students. Students make between 30 to 40 appointments at Boynton Health Service weekly to receive either HIV testing or results; many of them wouldn't get tested without the con­fidential option. The testing is called confidential because after the results are in, there is no evidence on the patient's record that the test took place. The test is so con­fidential that only number labels are used on blood sam­ples and appointments are written in as a simple "nurse visit." Dave Golden, director of public health, marketing and program development at Boynton, said 356 people came to Boynton for confidential testing in 1998. Only one of these tested positive. 
¦ UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN Fraternity members maintain innocence 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. 
Lawyers for 10 Phi Delta Theta fraternity members aigned 
yesterday for alcohol-related misdemeanors argued outside 
the courtroom that their clients' actions at an Oct. 15 party 
have no relationship with Courtney Cantor's death -the first 
public comments from the side of the defendants. "I think 
that there's a very good possibility they may be held as 
scapegoats or examples," said Royal Oak attorney Al Addis, 
who represents a majority of the fraternity members. "I find 
that very unfair to them." The 10 defendants stood mute on 
the charges and pleaded not guilty at the Washtenaw County 
Courthouse yesterday morning. Earlier, the students, along 
with attorneys, family members and other fraternity broth­
ers, solemnly filed into Ann Arbor City Hall just aft.er 8:30 
a.m. "They surrendered with their attorneys," MPD Lt. Jim Tieman said. "They were olTicially arrested, booked and · taken to the courthouse." 
¦ Smrrn BEND WEATHER ·¦ Ntmot.JAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather® foreca.st for daytime conditions and high tem~eratures 
_/..~... 
~.........,,· 
Monday Tues<I?y Wedn~sday~ 4(i .34i( 

Thur;,.·...1ay •· .. ·. 2··. . .'.·=.. ·,
~ ~.r· ~ ' •, ..:J..< 

Preuure: 

® © EJ D CJ D [2] EJ O ~~· ii@,¥!,; 
High Low Showere Rain T~atorms Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt Cloudy Cloudy 
Atlanta 60 48 Denver 58 28 New York 50 40 Baltimore 53 41 Honolulu 81 69 Palm Beach so 64

@,9,~q@Qt)~dfl 

Boston 48 34 Houston 73 47 Pittsburgh 46 37 
Showers T-storms Rain Aum·es Snow ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 

Chicago 36 29 Los Angeles 64 52 Seattle 48 42 
Via Ass,oc,ated Press Graphics/llet 


30• 
0 1999 AccuWeather, Inc. 

Monday, January 18, 1999 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

New art exhibits take a peak at early Western culture 
By VAN GILES 
News Writer 
A celebration of the American landscape arrived this past Friday at tho Snitn via two new exhibits. Mapping the West: Nineteenth Century American Landscapes is a collection of 77 rare photographs taken between 1865 and 1882. The museum's second exhibit, Fritz Kaeser: A 


Life in Photography. is a collection of the Tuscon photog­rapher's 50-year career. 
T h c 
Mapping the West exhibit pre­sents tlrn work or 
four pioneerphotograp lrnrs. Carleton Watkins, Alexander Gardner, Timothy 
O'Sullivan and John I filler who 

captured raw American images Patrons view the new art exhibits displayed in the Snite Museum. The shows include photographs of early by trekking across westnrn terri­American Western civilization. Pictures of animal skulls, mountains and earfy Native Americans are just a tories. 
few of the pieces that will be on display until March 14. 
Center for Social Concerns University of Notre Dame 

MIGRANT EXPERIENCE SEMINAR 
During Spring Break 1999, the Center for Social Concerns will offer an unique experiential learning opportunity. Students will travel to lmmokalee, Florida to work with migrant farm workers and agencies that serve them. The seminar offers: • 
-:-An experiential, student-directed, alternative break opportunity (March 6-14, 1999) 
-One credit in Theology 
-An opportunity to work in the fields with migrant workers, to assist those agencies that serve them, and to examine related issues 
Information Meetmg (optional): 
Monday, January 18th at 7:00 PM at the CSC 


App!ic11till1u1 nre nvailL'lble at the Center 
Applications due: Thursday, January 28th with $50 deposit 
For more information: Arnold Lacayo, 634-1712 
Shaunti Althoff, 634-2685 
Dr. Jay Brandenberger, 631-5293 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE Student Activities Board (SAB) Spring 1999 Eventg 
Jumm 

11 "R.ounder',' Ufl'oU Auditorium 8 pm 
16 Hotel Pr2t1 (bond> Daltoway's 9-11 pm 
14 Open Mic Night Oallo..,,,y'• 

20 Op<n Mk Night 
OalloW2y's 8-10 pm 
8-10 pm 
22 SMCTostal
Edm!m 
Llbrvy Gr«r, 
12 pm-12 amJ Think F»t 
(Game show) 

Noble Dining Hall IWLn $200 cuhl 11 ,,0-1 :)0 pm 
2! Frederick Wlntcn, hypnott,t 
DalloW11y's 
8 pm 

26 'B<lo~d' (pand docuulon to follow movie/ urroll Auditorium 7 pm 
Mmh 
3 Open Mic Night Oalloway', 8-10 pm 
19 'You've Got Mail" Carroll Auditorium 8 pm 
20 'You've Got Mail" Carroll Auditorium 8 pm 

24 Frances Dilorinzo, comedicnnr" t.,Mms Lobby 8 pm 
27 Jwuor Mom', Weck,nd/Qas,,cs Wcck.:nd 
•An Affair to ~member" 'unblanca· 
Curoll Auditonum 7 pm and 9 pm 
28 "Gon, With the Wind' Carroll Audito,ium 7 pm -~ 

we can only sen thrnugh
'THIS IS A UNIQUE 

llol lywood 's
OPPORTUNITY FOR 

mcrnat.ions. THE UNIVERSITY COMMUNITY O'Sullivan, who was a
TO SEE RARE AND NEVER 

Civil War pho­BEFORE EXHIBITED PHOTOG· tographer, RAPHY.' took pho­tographs of Pueblo vii-GINA COS'/'/o. lagers and SN!TE MusHUM CU!il\TO!l N a t i v n 
"Fritz Kaeser: A Life in Photography" is being held in conjunction with the book of the same name by the Snite's cura­
Please; 
tor of photography, Stephen Moriarty. The exhibit is an array
·RecvcleJiThe of images, such as "The San .J.i1!%i-··:: :······' :,:,:,·i,()) 
Xavier Moonrise," including sea shells, buffalo skulls, 
Guatemalan pilgrims, cacti and reflected clouds. Watkins' depictions of the 


Observer. 

West, which in rnccnt ylmrs have b(!(m rncognizcd by a new gener­ation of collectors, portray rivers, canyons and tall granite mountains in the American tun­dra. 
Gardner captured imagos of Native Americans with images of Native J\moricans work has a sepia-tone hun that character­izes early photography. llis imagPs of Indians arn rPminis­cent of' an era long gorw lha1 
J\meric:an 
tribes that occupied the land bnl'orn America's westorn states were established. 
Hillor's work is known f'or his images of the stnrn faces ol' tho early Pueblo Indians along the Hio Grande Valley. 
"This is a unique opportunity for the university community to see rare and never before exhib­ited photography," said museum curator Gina Costa . 
The Kaeser show c.loses March 14 while the Mapping the West exhibit will close in mid­February. 
We'll Pay You to 
MEET YOUR NEW PERSONAL BANKER 
1st Source is your source for Internet banking! 
Now your account information is just a dick away with 1st Source Direct on the Internet! 
Access information on: 
• 
balances 

• 
interest rates 

• 
payments and transactions 


You can also: 
• 
transfer funds 

• 
pay bills 

• 
and much more. 


The future offinancial services is here now, and with 1st Source you can bank on it! Visit our web site today at www.1stsource.com and check out 1st Source Bank's full range ofproducts and services. 
Join us for an Internet demonstration at the 1st Source ATM in the lower level of the Hesburgh Library on: 
January 19th and 20th any time between 11 :00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. 
We'll give you abuck just for stopping by to see for yourself how secure, simple and quick Internet banking is. We'll give you three months of 1st Source Direct Internet service FREE. 
www.1stsource.com 
•sou•ce®


liiiiBank 
iow~srikr® 
MEMBER FDIC · 

page 4 
T_h~JJn 
Dam.ehhs 

Aniie.~iir 
of Notre .. 
fessor Johri 
establish 

·ship.•iri·
,1n·ettioey:· 
-
Filling the empty seats 
Bill can clearly remember the quiet, empty stands in Angela Athletic Facility during her first match as a freshman. Through three years of playing, she said, not much has changed. 
"It was a shock for me," she said. "Only a few people _were there. I could actually count the people in the stands. In high school, it was so different." 
Lack of publicity and busy schedules seem to be the popu­lar answers as to why there is such low turnouts at Belles' events. 
"I think there is a lack of sup­port for athletics in general." Indriolo said. "Sometimes I walk into the dining hall and I see someone in their uniform. but I didn't know they had even had a gp.me." 
This year, different clubs have sponsored events like barbecues and free give-aways at events_ to attempt to draw out the stu­_dents. There have been improve­men ts at some events, most notably at soccer games, where these marketing techniques were used, Travis said. 
Athletes and directors said 
that being a women's college 
also influences fan turn out. 
At many schools, Travis said, it is common for male athletes to attend the women's games and 

Monday, Janwiry 18, 1999 
vice versa, thus creating a larger fan base. 
"The number one thing in high school was football players going to the volleyball game," Bill said. 
Bill also said that by not hav­ing the "popular" sports like football and men's basketball, Saint Mary's is not always thought of as an athletic school. 
With the implementation of an athletic advisory, athletes are trying to set an example by attending each other's games. 
"It's not the only thing," Bill said, "but if fans were watching nie play, I could play harder. It's definitely a motivator." 
Despite the often empty seats and some slumping records, the Belles are striving to improve. Even if the championships don't come immediately and fans don't pack the bleachers, the reason the athletes are playing won't change, Travis said. 
"A Division III athlete is very special." she said. "They have to learn to juggle academics, ath­letics, a social life and ... still learn the true meaning of team play. They have to balance all facets of life. 
"They're not performing for a spectator. Naturally, it's neat to look in the stands and see people cheering for you. [But] the stu­dent-athlete is participating for the love of the sport." 

Athletes 
continued from page 1 
To ease the tension, the athlet­ic department is developing a mentoring program to help retain athletes. Upperclasswomen would be paired with first year students to advise them on time manage­ment and to encourage them to stick with the sport. 
Building a winning program 

Playing at the Division III level is not the easy ride, some might think it is, Bill said. 
"I don't think other people always know [how much time · athletes pui inJ," Bill said, noting 
5:30 a.m. practices. " My room­mates can't believe how much rm gone." 
The level of competition rose last vear when Saint Marv's joinid the Michig.an Intercollegiate Athletic Association. Now teams are involved in conferece and post­season play. 
"Even though there's no schol­arship and it's Division Ill, it's still a highly competitive pro­gram," Travis said. The confer­ence "is an asset to the student­ath Ie te for many reasons. 
There's closure in the season, easier to earn national awards and become an all-American." 
However. Saint Mary's athletic program still has long strides to take before it is competing at a winning level. 
Currently the program is suf­fering -basketball, soccer, soft­ball and volleyball all finished with losing records in their most recent seasons. In the midst of their seasons. the basketball team is now 3-10 and the S\-vim team, who loses significant points due to having no divers, won their first mcel SaLurday. 
"The Saint Mary's program is not at the level we hope it will be in the next couple years," Travis said. 
Besides fine-tuning themselves as MIAA conference members, Saint Mary's athletes must also adjust to a high turnover rate with coaches. 
"I've had five or six coaches in three years," Indriolo said. ''I've had to learn to bunt three times. Each new coach has different ways of coaching. With consis­tent coaching, we could build up a program that's out of this world." 
Travis attributed much of the problem to coaches leaving because most are hired only on a part-time basis. This also inter­rupts the recruiting process. 
"It's difficult to continue 
recruiting with the turnover. You lose your continuity. If a coach resigns, recruiting stops," sho said. 
"Many who are working part­time are also working another job. The time demand is extn~mely ditlicult to handle." 
Cook said she noticed many positive changes when she took on a full-time position in August. 
"My relationship with my ath­
'THE WOMEN I'M COACHING, ] CAN SEE THAT THEY LOVE IT. I DIDN'T LOVE IT ANYMORE [IN COL­
LEGE].' 
JTNl COOK SMC BASKETBAU, COACH 
letes improved," she said. "It's more hands-on and I can be here at all different times. I didn't feel like part of the school last year [as a part-time employ­ee]. This year, when I call recruits I can talk to them about Saint Mary's and be very proud to be a coach here. It's a whole 
180." 

@CID ~CIDffllmTIBJilN@} @IIJFJFim~N~ THE SUMMER IS YOUR CHANCE TO SHINE. ~ Summer Service Projects 1999 *8 weeks of service learning** Information Meeting**: *$1700 tuition scholarship January 19th (Tuesday) c EN r ER F o R *Valuable alumni contacts · SOCIAL *3 credits Theology, with possible cross-lists Center for Social Concerns coNCERNs *Over 200 sites across the U.S.and abroad  

ABIDJAN  
Claiming that his forces have left the  
capital of Sierra Leone an ungovernable  
wasteland, a rebel commander vowed  
Sunday to let anarchy reign in the war­ 
ravaged city until his jailed leader is  
released.  
Both the rebels and the government of  
!'resident Ahmed Tejan Kabbah claim to  
have the upper hand in a month-long  
surge in fighting that has caused a  
humanitarian emergency and unknown  
number of casualties in one of the  
world's poorest nations.  
Hebel leader Foday Sankoh, who was  
sentenced to death late last year for  
treason and mass murder, has been held  
in a secret location since the rebels  
launched attacks last month on  
Freetown, the capital of this f'ormer  ;,,,  
British colony.  
"We have made Freetown i:µigovern­ 
able," said Sam Bockarie of the  
Hevolutionary United Front rebel move­ 
ment. "We can do that until Kabbah  
steps down or they release Sankoh."  
Buckarie spoke by telephone from an  
undisclosed location in Sierra Leone.  
The ,fighting in Freetown follows  
months of savage attacks by the rebels,  
who have reportedly killed, raped and  
mutilated thousands of unarmed vil­ 
lagers in a campaign aimed at widening  
their influence through terror.  
The insurgents are pitted against gov­ 
ernment forces and a Nigerian-led West  
Al'rican force known by its acronym,  
ECOMOG.  
Parts of the capital have been set afire,  
and thousands or people face starvation,  
relief groups say.  
But Bockarie still vowed to stand by a  AFP Photo  
seven-day ceasefire set to begin Monday  A young Kamajor, a traditional hunter who is siding with the West African peace­ 
evening.  keeping force ECOMOG, displays his machine gun. Fighting between the West  
"Our guns will go silent for a week. If  African force and rebels for control has claimed more than 2,000 lives.  
the Nigerians do not try to do anything,  
they will stay silent for a week," he said.  have moved a naval frigate into  sation "absolute rubbish."  
Bockarie's vow still gave his forces  international waters off the coast,  "All that has happened is that  
plenty of room to resume firing. lie said  of shelling rebel positions.  HMS Norfolk has arrived in  
that any ECOMOG activity -even a  "Their shells have landed on our  internatlonal waters off Sierra  
night by a single Nigerian jet -would  soil," he said.  Leone, and has sent a reconnais­ 
cause the shooting to start anew.  "We will attack their embassy.  sance party in a helicopter to  
"We will not sit down and look at  It's going to be burned down,"  assess the situation from the air,"  
them shooting at us," he said.  warned Bockarie.  she said.  
Officials from ECOMOG and the Sierra  A British Ministry of Defense  A Foreign Ministry spokesman  
Lconean government could not be  spokeswoman in London, speaking  said the ship was in the area to  
reached for comment.  on customary condition of  help with deliveries of humanitari­ 
Bockarie also accused the British. who  anonymity, called the shelling accu­ an aid.  



Monday, January 18, 1999 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page S 
¦ WORLD NEWS BRIEFS Hostilities continue in Kosovo 
B.ACAK. Yugoslavia 
Fighting nruptnd Sunday near a Kosovo village whcro 45 ethnic Albanians wore massacrod narlinr, forcing mourners to halt funeral s(lrvicns for the slain and join intnrnational monitors in necing to safe­ty. Snrb f'orcm; in southern Kosovo scaled off other villages in tlrn area later Sunday. Peace vcrilfors from the Organization for Sncurity and Coop1m1tion in Europe reported housns burning in villages wnst of Hacak, 15 · milns south of thn provincial capital. l'ristina. Arter an mnnrgrncy srssion, NATO announc1>,d Sunday it was sending its two top ge1wrals to B1ilgradn to impress upon Yugoslav authorilins tlrn gravity of Lhn siLua­lion af'ter tlw killing of the nthnic Albanians, whose mutilated bodies wnre discovered Saturday in a gully. NATO ambassadors or the I<> allianc11 members had met al head­quarlnrs in Brussels, Belgium, to decide on a rnspomw to tlrn killings. Tho threat of NATO airstrik1is, hanging over the heads of Serb authorities since October. remains an option. 
Drugs lead to American arrest 
MEXICO CITY 
M1ixica11 poliet! have arrested an American man who was caught allegedly carrying 3 1/2 pounds of heroin in his backpack at the Cancun IntPrnational Airport. Federal police said Dick Wightman was carrying two pass­ports, 01m issued in New York and the other in Bogota, Colombia, when he was arrested Saturday. Wightman had arrived in Cancun on a flight from San Jose, Costa Hica.' lnspertors l'ound thn drugs hidden in cloth­ing in his backpark, tlrn l'Pdcral attorney gerrnral's office said in a statement. The office said U.S. consular authoritfos had bmrn advised of tlw arrest. Wightman's agr, .' anti hometown were not available. 
German company recalls 
glucose medicine 

BHUSSELS, Belgium 
A (;nrman pharmaceutical company has rncalled thousands of vials labeled glucosn al'ter tw() prmnaturn babies died when given injections from the containers, which turned out to hold potassium chloride. The compa­ny, B. Braun Melsungen AG. "acknowledged with constornation" tlw babies' deaths. say­ing in a statement that 135,000 vials of the 5 pnrcenl glucose were distributed in Septmnbnr I997. But Philippe Verschuren, tlw company's reprnsentative in Belgium, dnnind that Braun erronnously mislabeled the vials, saying something could have hap­pnnnd after they left the factory. "In normal 
circumstancns somnthing like this cannot happen. Thn production process is loo auto­matml for that. It's nearly incomprehensi­ble," Vnrschure11 said. 
Market ITT1tch: Ill 5 

Dow 
AMEX: 709.29

}ONES Up:
+11.13 
NasdalJ:

9340.55 820 
2348.20 


+71.38 
NYSE: 
Dom1:
593.39 
185K
+12.32 
S&P500: 1243.26 
Composite
+31.07 
Volume: 

+219.62 934,000,000 VOLUME LEADERS 
('01\-11''4.N\' fl('Kl-'.H '\. <..'IIAN(a: $GAIN l'HICt,: 
UATA IIMOAl>C:AS'r l11.,\'flN11,\I Tl•:nt  l>H(T l'L\T  ·-"l,26 -lH,4.\  -9.4.n, -5.. \125  21.7~ 13.37~  
l~tA<aNON INl" t;OI.Ht:N UOOKS •.,\\t  J.\ION (;Jfft:  +201.61 ·12.70  +.\.'14.,.,2 •0.1500  5.8-1.\7~ l.71K75  
t'IS("f) SYSTt:MS  C"Sl"O  . ,,.!II  -t5••\IJ!C  l0l.t\H75  
IN.TEl.('OKI' C'l-:Nll,\NI n>tw \11('HOS0t-7· l'OHP Ut:1.1, t·t1.\IPt''U:H  INH' t·n .-.1s1--r 1>t:u.  -t-1.11 o.41 ..!Ii.ft.I +1.n  -+-l.f.250 +l.2500 -. 8,0CHMI ... 1..,750  135 • .\75 ?ft.75 149,75 79.fHI  
rnu:Rutll' INC  C  -+i.J5  -t0.6875­ 5-1.~ftl!li  

¦ IVORY COAST 



Rebels fight for leader's freedom 
AssocJATED P1rnss 
¦ UNITED KINGDOM 

Pinochet's appeal causes· protests 
ASSOCIATED PRESS  Pin<:ichefwas attested  :tthe appeal is  being  Pinochet,  who  was  
LONDON llt1ndreds Qf prptesters demanding the extradi~ tion or Gen. Augusto Pinochet m.arched past the Houses of Parliament on Sunday, the day before Britain's highest cour.t rehears the former  Oct. 16 under a Spanish warrent s~:aking Ji~ extr~dltio1r >to f~ce charges of genocide, tor~ · ture and murder dating from ·11.js· .197:,:3~90. regf:ine. He Is under police· guard In a rnntnd house west of Londoil. . BaltaSat Garzon, the  heard again because Lord Justice Hoffmann, one of ,ihti Ill.\'!/ lords who tna.de · t.he original ruling, failed· to disclose his ties with A:mn~sw Intergational,. a key player in ihe lorig campaign to have the 83­year-old general charged. If the House of Lords  recovering from back surgery in a London hos­pital when he was arrest­ed, is not permitted to leave his rented house. On Sunday, he was quoted as telling a British newspaper, "I am resigned to my fate even  
Chilean dictator's appeal  Spanish judge who issued  upholds the Nov. 25 High  if that means dying here.  
for immunity from prose­cution, More than 500 protest­ers, mainly Chileans and many. of whom had trav, eled from across Europe for the demonstration, marched to Trafalgar Square for a rally:' · ···  the warrant, was due to attend the newhearirig at the House of Lords, whose five-judge tribunal last month iµvalidateci its own. ruling that Pinochet does not qualify for immuµity as a former head Qfstate. , iw;v  Court decision that quashed . Pinochet's armst, the general will be free to go home. The b,earing is expected to last into the middle ot' the week, and the Law Lords have the option of reserv­u,1gj.udgment.  This is part of my sacri­fice to the Fatherland." "f (W1 answerablt} to only two people -God and the Chileans ­and 1 can stand honorably ln front of both," The Sunday Telegraph quoted him as snying.  

page 6 

The Observer. INTERNATIONAL NEWS Monday, January 18, 1999 
whichJraq had. invaded in 
. 1990. 

...... .... sfilareh .was· the sec­ovvn;, • do\.\' 7 ond 'demonstration the govern­
"J,,q,n.g . live"" ment organized this weekend. rl:tq~~~rcbe~ \.on. S~,turday, 6,000. people ,. ~¥~:tq''P.tiientl;fma,ri::hed.throngh. Baghdad to 
. . a quarters Sunday •· mark the st.art of the Gulf War govertjmen.t-orga,nized · and to protest an American pro• str ·· P18:t~I11g th~.w posaI that would ease M,N. ...· . h(!l:,st~rt of:th~£ sanction,s against Iraq bµrnot 
.,....ersi ......... tfWar. end them, as Iraq has domand­S)>croe burned flags of' th~ ed. United States, Brit;ain and ...•. The sanctions, imposed afterr•~.~ PR~t~:r.$;!i]lrttq's iJ).YaSioJl. o(Kuwait; ban 
n,wnarrng a the sate of orl and ban other with,'~qruea Lewinsky's· financial transactions. They on ' ·· have severely damaged Iraq's tiOfl•Mgai) the ec.qnorny1tnd h,;i.y(J made ithard l??'W;t,of()rceC for.its .22 million people to earn 
ot\;lmquishKuwait, a living, 
¦ SWITZERLAND 


U.S. ends talks with N. Korea 
Associated Press 
GENEVA 
With no immediate break­
through in sight. the United 
States adjourned talks 
Sunday on gaining access to 
what it believes is an under­
ground site North Korea is 
using to develop nuclear 
weapons. 
U.S. Ambassador Charles Kartman and North Korean Deputy Foreign Minister Kim Gye Gwan will meet again next weekend after a round of' more general peace talks during the week. U.S. and North Korean diplomats said. 
The wider talks. which start Tuesday, involve North and South Korea, along with the Vnitfld States and China. Thfl four sides launched the talks 13 months ago in an effort to replace the 1953 Korean War armistice with a permanent peace treaty. Until now, par­ticipants have made only slow headway on procedural issues. 
Progress on the nucl_ear issue was expected to set the tone for the week's four-party talks. 
Washington has so far rejected North Korean demands for $300 million in compensation to inspect the Kumchangni underground site, which was revealed last summer in satellite photos. Pyongyang says it needs the money because it won't be able to use the facility after outsiders have seen it, but denies it uses the site for nuclear weapons. 
Detection of the site has renewed fears about the nuclear ambitions of the North's reclusive Communist 

government and inflamed 
tensions on the divided 
Korean peninsula. 
The North Korean and 
American diplomats, who 
refused to give their names. 
gave no details about the 
'IDON'T KNOW WHETHER 
WE WILL MANAGE TO OVECOME OUR DIFFER­
ENCES.' 
KIM G>:E Ga-AN 
NORTJ-I KOREAN DEPUTY FOHEIGN MINISTER 

adjourned round of weekend talks. 
North Korea's deputy for­eign minister told journalists earlier that the two sides were "stuck" in the opening sessions Saturday. 
"I don't know whether we 
will manage to overcome our 
diffenmces." Kim said before 
Sunday's meeting at North 
Korea's lakeside diplomatic 
mission. 
Kartman left the meeting without comment. "I will do my best," was all he said beforehand. 
Two previous rounds of U.S.-Norlh Korean talks in Washington and New York failed lo make any progress. 
Dispute over the under­ground site has compounded the tensions raised when North Korea fired a rocket over Japan at the end of August. The United States believes North Kornn launched a ballistic missile, and it is now working with Japan to develop a new mis­sile-defense system. 
Congrnss has pressured the Clinton administration to cut financial aid for a nuclear energy project agreed upon in 1994 if' North Korea doesn't accept an inspection at 
Kumchangni. 



DNESDAY NIGHT OUT 

JOIN US AND ENJOY 



SABOR LATINO 
LAFORTUNE BALL ROOM 9 P.M. TILL MIDNIGHT JANUARY 20, 1999 
--_,.___ 

I I 
Monday, January 18, I999 The Observer• MARTIN LUTHER KlNG DAY 
Hesburgh: King's legacy survives 
By DAN CICHALSKI 

In Ow hallway rwar his library offini hangs a hlad-and-white photograph of Univnrsity prnsidonL 1•1111n-iL11s ThPodorc llesburgh. 
Martin LuUwr 
r-----..._..,..,r""'I King. Jr., and otlwrs holding 
hands in a dr­
rle al a march and prayc\r St\r­vicP in Chirago. 
l I 1\ sh II r g h · s work in tlw i.-._.• civil rights Hesburgh ,•ffort. and as a I !i-:iwar rnPm lwr of tlw six-nwm­lrn r U.S. Commission 011 Civil !lights brought him tog11llwr with llw nation's g11vc\rnmP11t and dvil rights 1.-:ult'l's, induding King. 
With llw thirhi1\nlh anniversary of r-.tarlin l.ullwr King Day and all tllnt has IJllSS«'d sirn:1• lkshurgh 's days on 11w rnm111issio11 and King-'s dnal Ii on April 4, 19(,8. tlwrn an\ f'i>w who d1•11y that ltwrP is still room for imprnv1•111(•!1L 
Ilcishurgh has s1mn light for civil rights progrPss si111•p lw lirsl Look his (llilfl\ 1111 tlw commission in I11;,7 
"Wlwn I startnd in ':i7, thnrn w1•n, (1 million blacks who couldn't volP, who couldn't rPgister to volP," llnsburgh said. "So if' you can't rngislPr to votn. you can't be on a jury. You'rn nobody if you can't votn. That is something that has complnt,dy changed and I think we've lkkml that onn. 
"I think alt of what they call 'apartheid' is pretty well wip,id nut. I've got to say that all or this hap­pmwd -opening up jobs, opening up voling, opnning up schooling, 01wning up cmploynrnnt -all or that happened because or allirma­tiv1i action. 
"Not only did you have lo let pno­p\c in, hut you had to go out and look for pnopln lo try to till it up. The organization of' affirmative action was cm1tral to all that hap­p1:ning. Wcmwn probably got much morn advancmnent in all of those sanrn areas out of thn i\frican­1\nwricans than did blacks and Hispanics, but it lwlp1\d everybody." 
Tlw prngn!SS that has been mado at Nntrn Dame and ouL-;ide the earn­pus since King died may be evaluat­ml on dilfornnt levels, depending on whom you ask. There will always be somn p1ioplv who foel more should h,i done. 
"I think it's never quite where you want it to get," llesburgh said. "It's somnthing that you have to knep working 011. But again, you've got to rmnmnber wn startNI from ground 
Ihavc a dream that 
one day this nation 
will rise up and live 

out the true meaning of its 
creed: "We hold these truths to he self'-evidcnl: that all men arn creatod equal." I havH a dream that onn day on the red hills of Georgia the sons of for­mnr slavos and the sons of' f'or­mor slavcownors will be able to sit down together at a table of' brotherhood ... I have a drnam that my four childrnn will orw day liw in a nation whorci tlrny will not be judged by tho color of their skin but by t.lw content of their character. I have a dream today. 

King's widow works for world peace 
The Associated Press 
ATLANTA 

On the eve of thn Martin Luther King Jr. holiday, the widow of thti slain civil rights leader gathered with others Sunday to discuss how world kaders ean promote rocon­ciliation from South Africa to Cuba to lrnq. 
"l th.ink that when you look at. conflict anywhere in tho world ... and you bt;il it down, it's all about the same thing. It's all about ditrer~ cnco," said Nohel Pflace Prizo win· ncH John llume of Northern Trnlmnl. "Th<l answer to differt'nce is lo rnspHct it, not Lo fight it.'' 
Hume, former U.S. A.mbassador to the Onited Nations Andrew Young, IHHtd of tho Truth and Hoconciliation Commission in South Africa Desmond Tutu and King's widow. Coretta, tried t.o get that mcssago across during a dis­cus.;ion that often included the themes espoused by King. 
"Marlin Luther King was a great oxample for peoplo in Northern lrelund," Hume said. "He was seeking oquality, not victory for any one section." 
zero, so from that standpoint there's hmm an enormous change." Though progress has been made, lfosburgh believes more can be 
'WE'VE INHERITED A VERY BAD LEGACY SINCE THE DAYS OF SLAVERY. AND IT'S NOT 
EASY TO TURN THAT AROUND, 
BECAUSE COLOR SHOULD BE 
IRRELEVANT.' 
FATHER HESBURGII 

PREV/JENT EMEIUTl!S OF NOTRE DAME 
done. 
"I think Martin Luther was an honest man, and he'd have to say we have made more progress in the last 20 years than we did in the 200 beforn," llesburgh said. "But do we have a long W<J.Y to go yet? Of course. The real problem is not just laws. We've got the laws. It's people in their hearts. 
"This isn't something that you can 
The peace he strove f'or has not hoen won, Mrs. King said at l.ho meeting of Gh>bal (:ircle, a gnmp founded 25 years ago to discuss world issues. 
"l had hoped that we would be a. lot further in building bridges ... thi!'I close tn the turn of the centu• ry," she said. "There is still too much demonilin.g of enemies as is 
-~wident in the United Stat1>s' rela• · tionship with Cuba and Ira.q." Tutu said lhe world can learn from South Africa's eMmplo, in. · which tho country turoed what 
could have been a pofontial blood bath into a scene in which people were hugging inst.cad fighting at the encl ofapartheid. 
"South Africa has given this unbelievablo hope of saying it is possible,·· he said. "J\nd it is not . just possible. i.t l$ going to happen.'' . 
Tutu said openness was neces­sary, including a full disclosure of the past. 
"It is a history that all of us have· to accept," he said. "And by doing that we close the chapter. not to forgt~t. but to remember we don't repeat what happened." 
just pass along. H's something you 
have to work at all the time. It's not autoll1"'4tic. We've inherited a very bad legacy since the days or slavery. And it's not easy to turn that around, because color should be· 
irrelevant." 
Even after King's death, the civil rights leader had an impact on llesburgh's life. 
"On the first anniversary of !King's! death, rwas invited down to Martin's church ... to give the talk, the sermon down there," llesburgh said. "And Daddy King, his father, said, 'Do you want to wear Martin's robe?' And I said, 'Sure.' 
"It was a Baptist church. Then he leaned over to me and he said, 'You're not only the first Catholic priest who ever preached in this church, you're the first white man who ever preached in this church.' i\nd l said, 'OK, Daddy, then you come up and preach in our church.' And he did." 
Colleen McCarthy contributed to this editing version of a story that was published in The Observer on Fri., Feb. 20, 1998. 

Reflections on King 
''··.11.... HINl\,,T.,.•HE IMPORTANCE IS IN REGARDS TO THE FACT THAT WE AS A PEO­~µ:~DA FOCUS ON SOCIAL JUSTICE, SO THERE IS EQUALITY FOR EVERY· ONE/AND THAT EVERYONE HAS THE EQUAL OPPORTUNITY TO Llffi, LIVERY AND THE PURSUIT OF HAPPINESS.' 
IRIS OUTLAW 
DIRECTORY OF MULTfCULTURAL STUDENT AFFAIRS 

, MARTIN LurHER KING wAS ONE OF THE CREA TEST LEADERS oF ALL TIME. I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT FOR EVERYONE TO CELEBRATE THE ADVANCEMENTS HE CAUSED IN CIVIL RIGHTS.' 
PETER CESARO STUDENT !JODY PRE(,/DENT 

, JDEHNITELY THINK THAT n's A CELEBRATION OF DIVERSITY AND A TIME FOR US TO REFLECT NOT ONLY ON THE IMPORTANCE OF THE UNIQUE ASPECTS OF EACH OF OUR LIVES, BUT Al.SO THE IMPORTANCE OF LEARNING 
ABOUI' DIFFERENT CULTURES AND ETHNICITIES.' 
ANDl/lf'A SE!.AK STll!JFNT RODY V!CB f'RESI!JFNT 

,T"E STUDENT BODY OF NO'rRE DAME NEEDS TO ENCOURAGE MULTICUL­TURALISM AND DIVERSITY ON A BASIC GRASSROOTS LEVEL Of PARTICIPA· TION. IT JS ONLY THROUGH THIS ACTION THAT OUR COMMUNITY WILL BECOME WELCOMING 1'0 ALL PEOPLE, REGARDLESS Of ETHNICITY.' .... , •.. ; 
BmAN iJ'DoNhGiIUE 
Kmur:ll lfth Si!NATO!I 

page 7 






MLKJR. 

TIMELINE 
1929 *January 15. Michael Luther King Jr. born in Atlanta, GA. 
1948 *King graduates from Morehouse College. 
1951 *King graduates from Morehouse College. 
1953 *June 18. King marries Coretta Scott in Marion, AL. 
1955 *King finishes his Ph.D. in systematic theology. · 

~ *King is named the first president of the SCLC. 
1958 *King's first book published, Stride Toward Freedom. 
1959 *King visits India, supports Ghandi's passive resistace. 1962 *King meets with President John F. Kennedy. 

~ *King arrested for demonstrating in · Birmingham. *King writes, "Letter From Birmingham. Jail" *King delivers 11Ihave adream" speech. 1964 *King's book published: Why We Can't Wait. 
*King visits with Pope John Paul VI. *December I0. King wins Nobel Peace Prize. 1965 *King meets with President Lyndon B. Johnson. 

~ *April 4. King is assassinated by James Earl Ray. 

~ *January 20. The frrst national celebration of King's birthday as a holiday 
The Ohserver/.Joe Mueller 


page 8 The Observer• INTERNATIONAL NEWS Monday, January 18, 1999 
¦ Soun-i AFRICA 

Racial issues expected to dominate national elections 
The NEW LIBRARY WEB 



IS HERE! 
,:.~ri17!;;.~= 
,~~~>l....., ­
·•~...---•r._ -_.... 
.... .....,_.";
-._.
._,,,,.)._;_
~·"', ,....._ 

Try it out at <http://www.nd.edu/-ndlibs/>. 
Associated Press 
CAPE TOWN 
From "lily white" sports 
teams to affirmative action in 
the workplace, a series of politi­
c a I spats has many South 
Africans convinced race is mov­
ing up the political agenda. 
President Nelson Mandela's 
five-year term ias coming to an 
end and his likely successor, 
Thabo Mbeki, is expected to 
break away from the conciliato­
ry approach to race that 
Mandela has followed since the 
1994 election that ended white 
rule. 
One of the constant themes of 
Mbcki's speeches last year was 
that South Africa is still "two 
nations" -one rich and white, 
the other black and poor. 
Senior officials of the govern­
ing African National Congress deny they arc practicing racial politics heading into elections expected to be called between April and June. They say they want to balance the wrongs of 

the past by redistributing resources from those who pros­pered under apartheid to those who suffered. 
However, political analysts expect race to be a major issue in the upcoming campaign. 
"The ANC will attack the posi­tion of white privilege and many whites will experience that as racism. The reconciliation peri­od is over," said Stampie Terreblanche, a political analyst 
at Stellenbosh University. Last year saw Parliament pass tough new legislation forc­ing companies to employ more non-whites, and Mbeki has vowed to speed up delivery of basic services to millions of 
PICK ONE OR MORE 
Clinic held at Notre Dame Golf Course Register in Advance at RecSports $5.00 Charge Wear Layered Clothing and Warm Gloves 
Equipment Rental Available -$4.00 Charge 
R~~ 
poor blacks by taxing well-off 
_ whites. In sports, the ANC has promised to draw up laws pro­moting nonwhite players on 
national teams. 
Even Mandela has toughened his approach. In recent com­ments, he labeled mainly white oppositio·n parties as "Mickey Mouse" groups opposed to radi­cal change. 
Terreblanche described being present at a December meeting between Mandela and white business leaders at which the elderly leader lambasted his audience. 

Ii"s===-=-=-=--=--=-=--=-======="""'aa=i=-==.-.......====---==~ 
SUMMER SERVICE PROJECT 
~!?©~~©~~©) ~i?: 
NATIONAL YOUTH SPORTS PROGRAM 
WANTED: STUDENT TEAM LEADERS 
aPPUCaTIONS aVOILQBLE OT THE CSC CQll FOR itlt.etview B31-BBI4 

"They were highly critical of the ANC and Mandela was taken aback," Terreblanche said. "He was then rather sharp. Ho told them in no uncertain terms that the time of white privilege was over." 
Opposition politicians, whose parties attract few black votes, accuse the ANC of bringing racial issues back into politics. 
Douglas Gibson, a senior law­maker from the small, liberal Democratic Party, said the ANC is too quick to play the race card in an attempt to drum up support with blacks, 
"The ANC has re-racialized South Africa," he said. "If you criticize a minister for incompe­tence or for a mistake, they will simply say it is because you am white and defending past privi­lege." 

Jan Momberg, one of the ANC's top parliamentary lead­ers, gets angry when anyone suggests his party has adopted racial politics. 
As a white Afrikaner who supported the ruling National Party for 30 years during the apartheid era, he says He has never come across racism in his new party, which he joined in 1992. 
Monday, January 18, 1999 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 
Sponsored by Campus Ministry, OMSA, Student Affairs, Student Activities, AAA, AAS-'., NSBE, VSA, the NAACP, KSA, FASO, SUB, LBBS, HBSA, MAES/SHPE, Voices of Faith, 
Nucstra Vw., MPMS, HPC, African and African American Studies, and Student Activities @ SMC 
The Norm of Greatness: Daring to Seek the Truth 
" ... until justice flows down like waters, and righteousness like a mighty stream." A Celebration in Honor of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. 
Monday, January 18th 
THE NORM OF GREATNESS 
A Theatrical Portrayal ofDr. King with excerpts from some ofhis famous speeches 
7:00 P.M. Lafortune Ballroom 



Wednesday, January 20th 
A BIBLICAL PESPECTIVE 
A Prayer Service in honor ofDr. King 
8:00 P.M. Keenan-Stanford Chapel 
.. 

Thursday, January 21st 
A CELEBRATION OF CULTURES ON CAMPUS 
A dialogue with underrepresented students on their Notre Dame experience 
6:00 PM. Lafortune Ballroo1n 
*Sponsored hy Student Government and Student Senate 






VIEWPOINT 
page 10------------------------OB~ERVER -------------------Monday, January 18, 1999 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SA!NT MARy's OrFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
·1993_99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR•IN-CHIF.F Heather Cock> MANAGING EOITOR BUSINESS MAAAGER Brian Rcinthaler Kyle Carlin 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR Heather MacKenzie 

NEWS EDITOR ...........Michelle Krnpa AnVERTISING MANAGER................... Bryan Lutz VIEWl'OINT EDITOR ................Eduardo Llull Ao DESIGN MANAGER ....................... Brett Hudac SroRTS EDITOII ...... . ...... Karhlccn Lopez SY.ll"EM5 MANAGER ...............Michad llmuillec SnNE EnrroRs............................Sarah Dylag CONTROLI.ER .....................................Dave Rogcro 
Kristi KlJcsch Wrn ADMINISTRATOR.... . ........ Alli,on hrilia SAJNT MARY'S EDITOR ....... M. Shannon Ryan GRAl'HICS EDITOR ........,,,....................Pete Cilella PHOTO ErnTOR ........................ Kevm D:tlum 
fhe Observer is th.: ind(pendcnr new3papt:r publi_.,hed by rhc J,Wdcms of rhe Ur1ivcrslt)' ofNocrc D..une du Lac and Saim Mary's College. Ir docs noc necnsarily rd]ttt chi: policies of ch(' adminismnion ofeither institution. The ne¥1s is reponcd as ;.u:ura,dy anJ objcLdvdy .i.s po....-.ible. Unsigned cditoriah reprnc:m du:-opimon of rhe majoritt oftht F.dJCor-in~Chict: ManJging Edimr. Assisranr Managing Ediror and dt'partmcnc editors, Comment.aric~, lenc:rs and 1..nlumns pr.::.cnt the view> of the: amhors, .u1d nm ncc1::.:;.i.rily those of The Observer. Vi,.wpomt sp,.1.1..i: is aYailablc: to .1!1 mcmhtr~ of ,he Notre Danu:/Sainr Mary's c.ommuniry and to all reader~. The free expresrnm of varying opinlom: 
WHAT I'M SAYlN?! 
OOLE.T:SEP 
FIND US g:-JMF::. CHICKS!! 
through lctu:r.s is rncouragc:d, 

Contacting The Observer 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 llu,iness Office Managing Editor/Assistanr ME 631-4541 Advmising News/Phoro 631-5313 Systems Sports 631-4543 Fax Scene/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Viewpoim E-Mail Day Editor/Viewpoint 631-530~ Ad E-Mail Office Manager/General Information 631-747! New, E-Mail 631-5313 
63 l -690018840 631-8839 631-6927 
Viewpoim. J@nd.edu observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu ubserver.obsnews. l@nd.edu 

¦ On, MARTIN Lumm KING, JR. 
Norm of Greatness Daring to Seek the Truth 
On the side of the llesburgh Library at Notre Dame is a beautiful mural cel­ebrating Christ The Teacher. On either side of the image of Christ are depicted 
Rev. Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C. 

famous scholars and teachers in the 
history of the Christian community. 
They were chosen for their representa­
tive role as examples of a deep 
Christian commitment to the pursuit of 
truth, which in faith is seen as connect­
ed to the search for the living God. 
There is no better way to understand 
why Notre Dame was established a 
Catholic university in the first place. At 
the Notre Dame Law School, Thomas 
Moore is depicted in several places · because he has become a prime exam­
ple of a person of integrity who is so 
committed to the truth that he is willing 
to die for it. Thomas Moore was a pro­
fessional person of great intelligence 
and governmental responsibility who 
defied the King for reasons of con­
science. 
In the same way that saintly men and 

women of the past model the fullness of 
Christian living, so in the academy and 
in public life we seek to be inspired by 
comparable examples of heroic com­
mitment to the truth. In my own per­
sonal life I was led to a greater con­
sciousness of the need for dramatic 
social change by the preaching, teach­
ing and example of Dr. Martin Luther 
King, Jr. He was a riveting speaker and 
a thoughtful advocate of racial justice and social healing. He trod hostile the spirit of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., streets and engaged in prophetic con­we must prepare the next generation of versation with those who opposed what leaders for a society that struggles with he stood for. Nevertheless, he was ulti-notions of integrity, honesty and honor. 
mately vindicated by the power for At a time of national disenchantment 
good by his tragic death and by the with the highest levels of government 
general consensus in retrospect that we need to avoid any semblance of 
he was one of the great figures of the despair or cynicism. We need to be 
people of hope and possibility who 
20th Century. 
We today seek, 
against the forces of 
division and violence, to 
achieve a higher-level of 
social harmony and 

community inclusion. We recognize in our world too numerous examples of civil discord, racial polarization and 
religious misunderstand­ing. It is only when each of us has the courage to 
expand our horizon of understanding, to seek to learn from those dif­ferent from ourselves and to engage in collec­tive action of ameliora­tion that we will see the fruit of truth which is mutual understanding. 
BUT, Wt;Y! m~ PEOPL~ STILL LOY~ US, MY tvtAN! WI; STILL GoT IT-~ON 
· 
'WE AT NOTRE DAME NEED TO RECOMMIT OURSELVES TO THE NOBLE ENTERPRISE OF TRUTH-SEEK­ING AND MORAL PURPOSE. 
IN THE SPIRIT OF DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR., WE MUST PREPARE THE NEXT 
GENERATION OF LEADERS FOR A SOCIETY THAT STRUG­GLES WITH NOTIONS OF INTEGRITY, HONEST AND 
HONOR.' 
want to make a difference with our lives. We 
need to utilize our God-given talents of intellect, com ­passion and memory to reestablish a higher level of expectation for leadership in all walks oflife. Knowing in our inner most being that we are all fallible and capa­ble of sin, we must also be open to forgiveness freely and openly 

A college education is a privileged time for students to grow in their self knowledge, in their responsibility for their O\.vn education and in their embrace oflifetime habits of service. The genuine pursuit of truth requires discipline and hard work. Yet there is no more rewarding engagement of the self. It has been my experience that genuine truth seekers are also motivat­ed to make a difference through the actions they engage in and the policies that they advocate. 
We at Notre Dame need to recommit ourselves to the noble enterprise of truth-seeking and moral purpose. In rendered and received. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. died in service of a worthy cause. Many other human beings in the course of our collective history have displayed a similar level of courage. May our commitment to the truth never dim and may we be guided by our well formed consciences to do the right thing for the right reason. 
Fr. Malloy's column is the first in a series dedicated to the memory ofDr. Marlin Luther King, Jr. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
macnelly,com 
lilr.[1:rr-ERTO THE EDITOR, 

el Alliance with iU-S. Heading for 


bori)ping provided emotional comfort to the peo­pl¢ ofIsrael, her national security and America's was not strengthened but made more fragile.America's national security is now threil.tened because Iraq's ally, Russia and the !f?Y~tllinghody, the Duma, has postponed the ~011~i~~;ation ofratifying the START II treaty 
· · whichwould have reduced.the number of 
ea.pons targeted atthe United States. 
,.Jt)$noted thattheVirginMary in her PtOP etltcounsels issued at Fatima, Portugal• madeit very clear that Russia will be God's insfr:ttnient of corroction ifmankind does not prafthe ~aily Rosary, repent and end meaning­
Joseph~ Vallely, M.A. 
. Wa~hingron Green, Ct. January6, 1999 
ha 

Disaster 

isnotathreat to the nationalsecurity of tes,. lritqis not1tthretttt.o the Moslem es.Jraq is only
on6J ofIsraeL for 
oh¢¢ agaltl. pas~edout gas 
U:S'.Ied Qpe:tatipll Desert Fox. l~tlJraq first atta.ckedisraEil during the offhe gr(;)at Old Testamentpropheth. UcArchbishop Fulton J.Sheen taught 
ylo.nian Iraq was employed by God as ·•• .. ent of correction" againstrebellious · · ··· ·· sbipinglsra.eL\V}whad decided 
e V9'it~ Egypt• rath«w 
· ed pllilish­
{.ity;.Beca.us hardness abylonian Iraq. attacked and Israel taking a remnant mto captivity.
Mra.ry Israel continues to be "stilf­and has developed another alliance, With the U.S., rathel'Jhan repenting. As 
Israel continues-to stubbornly believe ls no rleed to repent .ofsins such. as 
~ibQtnbirtg ofnon-retaliatory Iraq will stalmost a billion dollars.While the 
¦ DOONESBURY  
ANYTJ-1/NG ~5/R.t.fl~~ /;t9e, STAl<TfN6'JH;; /?ff.AN 9POTOll3'CIS CAMP8liU? 70NIGHT. 1 \  FOf?FAJ(571fRM PAP#<'?. aJpU !¥Cfl5Cl<ING HM/1 PRIV!S!i CAMF'lJ3·/AJ/ll£.  
r-~  

GARRY TRUDEAU 
67H/5R£AUY/leC£!3­§ARY,aAN? I MeAN, 
HOW!JIG A PROel.eM a:J{J/.,[J ONt!N& fAPB< fj/JY/NG /?bl/UY 8t3 ,? 
\ 
¦ 0.UOTE OF THE DAV 

,Jt takes two to speak the truth -one to speak and another to hear.' 
-Henry David Thoreau 





VIEWPOINT 
Monday, January 18, 1999------------------
------------------------page 11 

¦ CAPPV'S CORNER 
Giving Thanks at 
Notre Dame 
Hccr.ntly, a copy of The Scholastic madn iLs way lo my oflicfl. I was ustoundnd to sP.c a column, calhid "The (;ipper" (it should be called "The Griµnr"). I wondurcd why someone with such obvious disdain !'or Notre Dame comlescnnds lo reside hem rather than transforring to that Utopian paradise against which he nwasurns my favorite school. 
This column is an attempt at an anti-
Cappy Gagnon 

dote to "Tim (;yppnr", because I am thankful every day, for thn many rca­snns why Notrn Dam11 mnans so much 
to mr.. 
My l'irst visit to thn campus was dur­ing tlw Fourth of' July wmikend of 1961 (not a misprint, actually the second y(1ar of tlw K(rnrrndy Administration). 
My family and I Wl'rr. dinner eaeh night. I 
grndPd at Main Circln typed all my home­hy Bill r>.foeknr. a work on the office 
'IFEEL SADNESS FOR THE 
NEGATIVIST WHO BLATH­
soplwrnon• l'rom I.us Smith Corona*. (*Son AngPIPs who was con­ERS JN THE SCHOLASTIC; typoyvriter in thn dic­dul'ting thn ntrnpus tionary. Ask your
SORRY THAT HE HAS NOT 
Lours. Bill was a track grnndparnnts about athlPte and dwer­TAKEN AWAY THE SAME those pre-spell check lP,.ulnr. 1!(1 had tlw days, when the car­
GOOD FEELINGS I HAVE. 
good looks and deep riage return would tan that we from tlw PERHAPS IF HE WOULD QUIT ding when it was time East Coast always WHINING AND OPEN HIS to advance the associat!'CI with "surfor paper).
HEART, HE WOULD ENJOY
Jon's" from L.A. I will always A momtmt after my THE PLACE MORE.' remember Mrs. 
first glimpse of the · I>onw. which was !wing gild('(( while I was visiting. I said to mv mother. "This is wlrnrc I am going to school." If she was aghast at thoughts about where we wern going to cornn up with Lim money. she did nut lot 011. AftPr l saw the Main Quad, the old, ivy-r.overcd brick buildings, the Dome. Church and Grotto, etc.. the olht-r colleges we had visited f'acled from view (1 hopo Princeton has gotten ovnr the disappointmen.t). 
Mom recently reminded me that the Stadium Tumml gate was open when we walknd by, so we wandered in. Sim said I hugged the goal post in the North End Zonn. After wn finished a short Lour of Urn campus (pre­llesburgh Library. pm-Joyce Center, pm-Mod Quad. nte.}. Dad suggested we try to !ind some Admissions informa­tion. Although Mom pointed out that it was a holiday weekend, we walked over lo lhc Muin Building anyway. "Lnl's ask tlrn garc!lmnr," said Dad, pointing to a 60ish man. in black pants and white tnn-shirt. who was tending the tulips. "Tlw (iarderJl'r" sairl hi' could gtit us a brochurn, and led us insidP llw building. ln u fow minutes, W(\ wern talking with Fr. Moran. Dirnctor of Admissions (and parHinrn tulip garrlPncrl. 
Snnwhow or other, I slipp(~d through Lill' 1td111issions proc<iss and nnrollerl with llH' Class of J')6(,_ Fi!HllH'.OS ancl poor study habits engagt>d in a two• yt>ar ('onspirrwy to d1irail my Notre Danw advcnL11rn, hut, mirabill' diclu!. I ourrwrl H 13./\. (with not too many Bs and As involwd in tlw aehinvnm.Pntl. 
lhrPP y«'ars al'tt'r my t:arnpus uxcur­sion with Bill 1\fo(•k!ir. I was ,·mirlueting tlw u1111pus lours al. ilw Cird1•. Nirn: y1•ars aftPr my intcrviPw with Fr. l\1oran, I was inkni,,wing stwlents, as /\ssistaut. Dirc•1'.Lor ol' /\<lmissio11s. 
Thirty-five years af'ter sneaking onto hallowed Stadium turf, I was in charge of Crowd Management in the Stadium (although I can position myself any­where in the Stadium during football games, including in n nice booth in the Press Box, I stand a few feet from the goal posL I once hugged). 
During those student days when I worried if I could afford tu stay in school, there were always Notre Dame anguls to rescue me. Fr. McDonough put me in charge of pizza sales in Morissey Hall; Fr. Brocstl hired mo as the Dillon Hall secretary; and Charlie Callahan hirr.d me to write press releases for the Sports Publicity Department. 
For my Senior Year. a Notre Dame alumnus hired me as the Night Manager of a Roseland Motel (I doubt if he got too many other applicants, sinco I took down the 3x5 card job announcement he posted on the bul­letin board in the Dome). This was a great job. I was paid $1.10 an hour and lived in a motel room, with maid service, for $7 per week. I could watch TV while l worked, enabling me to see the very first episodn of "Days of our 1.iv11s." Tim owner's wife brought me 
Sullivan from the 

Huddle. She once saw me counting my pennies* (*A copper coin once actually used for purchasing items). From then on, if I appeared short of funds while purchasing a grilled cheese sandwich (when I was short of funds, l could afford to pur­chase only a grilled cheese sandwich), sil{) would break a cookie and offer it to me. She explained that she was not permitted to sell broken cookies. l never eat an oatmeal raisin cookie without thinking of her. 
Professor Ron Weber, who has for­gotten to age over the past 36 years, gave me excellent guidance and writ­ing instruction in the Communication Arts Department (formerly called .Journalism and now called American Studies. but still the best department in the whole University). If you get a chance to take a class from Hon Weber, you will never regret it. 
While my memories about the Notre Dame family date back to when Elvis was King, I observe many similar sto­ries today. Notre Damn is a special place for me. For that. I give thanks. I feel sadness for the anonymous nega­tivist who blathers in The Scholastic; sorry that he has not taken away tilt: sanrn good foclings I have. Perhaps if he would quit whining and open his heart, he would enjoy the placo morn. 
Capp!f Gagnon. '66. supcrl'ises 45 out.standing Notre fJame 
Securiry/Pofice student u•orkers, non<' ofu•lwm mope and whine. or name therm;el1ies q{ler Notre !Jallwfootba/1 heroes. Cappy's column appears eprry other Monday. 
Tiu• r•fotfls expressed in this column are those of the aullwr and not neces­sar;/y t.ho:w of The Ohsenwr. 
¦ CLEMSON UNIVERSITY 

Alcohol Policy Unlikely to Curb Drinking 
CLEMSON. S.C. (U-Wire) 
As usual. this past December the United States Postal Service was bogged down with the yearly influx of Christmas tidings. Along with this year's gifts and Christmas cards were thousands of alcohol policy state­ments mailed courtesy of Clemson to the parent or guardian of every stu­dent. The official parcel contained a shocking expose on the horrors of binge drinking accompanied by Clemson's new seven point plan to curb alcohol abuse 
on the campus. it actually goos A study conduct­through with I.his. A
,Qne sure fire way
ed by the Harvard quick call to the stu­School of Public to solve the dent records office Health found alco­will verify that tho
problem from a public
hol abuse to be a University will not 

problem on most relations standpoint release student university campus­records to anyone, not
would be to have the 
es, and this even parents or
drinking age lowered
promptr.d school guardians, without a 
officials to address to 18.' Clemson's alc6hol policy. The study concluded that a shocking 59.3 per­cent of Clemson's students actually drank to get drunk and even worse, 
43.8 percent of those surveyed reported being drunk three or more times during the pre'Ceding month. Though Clemson perhaps needs to address the issue or alcohol abuse, the current poli­cy will likely prove to be fruit­less and some of its points are definitely sus­pect. 
Students can already see one benefit of this program, though it may not neces­sarilv be a deter­rent 0 from drink­ing. Last semes­ter our recre­ation center, Fike, was in des­perate need of funds. This semester, how­ever, their woes have been cured thanks to our new alcohol poli­cy. Fike is now open until mid­night everyday of the week! This is great for peo­pie who have busy schedules, but is it really going to keep 
.i,/"' ' 
people out or the 
~1~
bars on Friday 
and Saturday night'? 
Plus, if people stay up latf~ on Thursday nights working out, arc they really going to want to get up for all of those extra Friday classes? Another provision in the seven point plan calls for an increased number of classes on Friday. 
The new plan also promises an incrcasn in the numbnr of alcohol­free rosidenco halls. Certainly par­ents entertaining the prospect ol' sending their child to Clemson would like tho sound of this. but all stud on ts know I.hat alcohol-free is said with quotations when referring to rosidcn­tial hall life. All anyono has to do is take a walk through Johnstono or Byrnes, two notnworthy "alcohol frne" residence halls, on a Friday or Saturday night to discover a new meaning for alcohol l'rne. Perhaps 

before increasing the amount of dry housing, the University should focus on adopting policies that actually work in these mostly freshmen build­ings. 
The most suspect aspect of the µoli• cy claims that a student's parents will be notified upon any second alco­hol violation if the student is under the age of 21. Perhaps a student might deserve this sort of a punish­ment if caught a second lime, but Clemson is definitoly standing on 
shaky legal ground if 

legal subpoena or tll{) consent of' the stu­dent. Legally, they 
can not release anything that is not considered public information. Public information includes things like your address or maybe a phonn number. but not your acadnmic or disciplirrn rocords. Notification of one's parnnts for such an ol'fonse is a violation of 
• one's constitu­
tional right to privacy, and it should not be 
tolerated. 

When it comes down to it, the University's nlTorts appear more like a public rnlations campaign than a sound plan of action. Somn 
K aspects of the 

current plan  
are definitnly  
beneficial to  
students while  
some are not,  
but the policy  
overall will not  
likely find suc­ 
cess. Perhaps  
the new task  
force of faculty  
and students  
ushnrnd in by  
the alcohol pol­ 
icy will be able  
to makn long­ 
lasting recom­ 
mendations  
that will actual­ 
. --·  .  .  .:/  ly work. Even with all of this attnn­ 

tion, real results wilr not be seen until them is a substantial change in the attitude that students take toward alcohol. 
Unf"ortunately, this is not tho kind of thing that moro ruins will solve. One sure fire way to solve the prob­lem from a public rnlations stand­point would bH to hav(i the drinking age lownred to 18. 
Voice your opinion! Agree with what wn say? Disagrnn? Lei us know by e-mailing lctters@Liger.domson.ndu ! 
This slr~/J editorial originally ran on Jan. 15 in the Cfemson Tigur. It has been reprinted here courtesy of lhe U-I-Vire. 
The vfou,s e,xpressed in this ('()/umn are those of the author and not nec­essarily those ,fThe Ohser/Jer. 


O
THE 
BSERVER 





'Waking Ned' is 'Devine' Irish Film 
'Patch' defies critics and wins audiences 
answer. 
The Lotto Commission 
announced that some­
one in this little village 

"Waking Ned Devine" 
Director: Kirk Jones 
had won, and won big. No one knows who

Starring: Ian Bannen, David Kelly, 
holds the winning tick­

Fionnula Flanagan, Susan 
et, and whether or not 
this person will share

Lynch and James Nesbitt 
i!tlli.·.•·0 ..··· ... ,i~'.•..·.)····· .·.J/!!,
··.'.t,,.• .......)..•·.·..--.··
q'..t <~{:J. •'·•s.i1 

(Out offive shamrocks) 
By CHRISTIAN A. PIERCE Scene Movie Critic 

Did you ever wonder what you would do if you won the lottery? Well, if you're an old Irish fisherman named Ned Devine, you die before collecting the prize money. 
Just imagine the irony of watching the announcement of the numbers, holding the ticket in your hand and the excitement of realizing you won, only to die seconds later. Talk about highs and lows -this poor guy 

finally discovers financial happi­tions. Afraid they might go to ness, but has no time to enjoy it. jail for fraud, Jackie and 
With Ned dead, the big ques­Michael reveal their plans to the tion seems to be -what will village. The townspeople agree happen to the money? With no to go along with the scheme, family the money will go with one major exception -the unclaimed, simply added to the local witch Lizzy Quinn. next week's prize. This creates This puts a slight wrench in a rather unique obstacle as the works, but makes for some 
Neel's friends and neighbors rather amusing scones. could really use a portion of that "Waking Ned Devine" thus money. So how will the little becomes a comedy of errors due town of Tullymore, Ireland to Jackie and Michael underesti• awake Ned in order to collect mating their fellow citizens of the millions? That is the ques­Tullymore. The story unfolds as
Photo courtesy of Fox Searchlight

tion the new film, "Waking Ned the community unites forces and
"Waking Ned Devine" stars David Kelly (center left) and
Devine" by Kirk Jones, will try to through it all, learns just a little
Ian Bannen (center right) as pursuers of a Lotto fortune. 
so many people in this 
world suffer from -lone­
liness, boredom, fear ­
can't be cured with a 


"Patch Adams" 
Director: Tom Shadyac 
pill," and that humor rea1ly is the best medi­

Starring: Robin Wiiiiams, Monica Potter, 
cine. So, currently in his

Philip Seymour Hoffman, Peter 
mid-30's, Patch decides to 
become a physician. 
Medical school, of course, seemingly poses an obstacle. But not for Patch. With the excite­

Coyote and Harve PresneU 

(Out of five shamrocks) By JENELLE WILLIAMS 
Scene Movie Critic 

"Follow your heart." "Pursue your dreams." "Do not give up." The war cries of parents and high school counselors, they are pieces of advice so often ignored, feared or simply misunderstood. 
It is advice forced into cliches by "inspirational" films -movies designed to liven spirits and generate a sense of hope. But few in the genre offer the essential ingredient successfully, the aspect most cherished in any Robin Williams film -humor. 
"Patch Adams," a delicate balance of melodrama, inspiration and humor, is the true story of a man who dared to accomplish his dreams by ignoring the beaten path and going his own way. 
The narrative begins as a nearly suici­dal Hunter Adams (Williams) checks himself into a mental institution. Here he encounters the stereotypical conglomer­ation of comical peers -a roommate who sees invisible squirrels, a man who· is comatose, yet still attends group thera­py and a once brilliant mathematician who no longer lives in reality. In these surroundings, Hunter, nicknamed Patch, finds his calling. He realizes that "what the money. 
Jackie O'Shea ([an Bannen) and Michael O'Sullivan (David Kelly). a dynamic old duo, take up the mis­sion of finding this win­
ner. These partners in crime hope to shower the winners with gifts hoping to see a portion of the money in return. These two men scour the countryside looking for the winner as they buy rounds of beer for men in the pub and bake pies for lonely widows, none of whom are the winner. Eventually, they decide to throw a chicken dinner for the rngu­lar lotto players. In wining and din­ing the regulars they notice one has not arrived, Ned Devine. Jackie decides to bring a meal to the old 
ment and vigor of a per­son working towards a specific goal, and the sta­mina of the medical stu­dents half his age, he conquers any fear of rejection or expulsion. At this point, as the plot thickens, the comedy becomes more frequent (and a little crude). With the aid of a goofy and lovable sidekick (Daniel London), and a beautiful ice princess, a feminist gone astray (Monica Potter), Patch forms a gross anatomy subculture, threatening his education and making an enemy of the inhumanly cold dean, by ignoring any and all 

upon, and .is threatened by both the school and bankruptcy, due to insuffi­cienffunds. No worry, for Patch is persis­tent. Time and time again, when it seems as if all is lost and unretrievahle, he finds a way to overcome even the largest of obstacles, usually with a smile. · 
Yes, Hobin Williams has played similar roles before. But this is the kind of per­formance that audiences cherish. Who else could play the guy who rails against authority and fights the status quo with laughter as his weapon? For those who have been longing for another film like "Good Morning, Vietnam" or KDead Poet's Society," this is it. But this role is also unique, in that it is strikingly similar 
Photo courtesy of Universal Pictures 
to the life of Williams himself. As a stu­
Robin Williams stars in "Patch Adams." 
dent at Julliard, he took several acting 

fisherman, only to find the poor soul about lifo, death and the almighty dead in his favorite armchair with dollar (or in this case, pound). the winning ticket in hand. "Waking Ne<l Devine" is a jewel of 
The village of Tullymore is a strug­the Emerald Isle, especially for the. gling community with citizens who members of the Fighting lrish com­merely hope to hold on to the little munity. This f'ilrn. like many Irish fortune thev have. Tho town defi­films before it, displays the financial nitely couli use this money.
With Ned being the giving,---------------~ type, there is no doubt he would have shared his seven million pounds with his neighbors. Therefore Jackie and Michael undertake the Lask of collecting the money . by waking Ned Devine. Actually it is not as grue­some as it might sound and definitely not as stupid as "Weekend at Bernie's." This is a sophisticated comedy about deceiving the big city just long enough for this 

Photo courtesy of Fox Searchlight
small town to collect. 

David Kelly (left) and Ian Bannen star in "Waking Ned 
Jackie contrives a scheme Devine." to cheat the Lotto Commission and share the millions with the town. Michael will pretend to he Ned, but the rest of the town must recognize him as such when the 
Lotto representative asks ques­
restrictions. Namely, he steals a 
white coat and violates the cardinal rule of the school, that only third year students are allowed to visit patients. Adams begins to routinely sneak into the hospital, dis­guised as an upperclass­man, so that he can be closer to the patients. By entertaining children diagnosed with cancer and other serious illness­
es, Williams is allowed the 

freedom to do what he does best, stand-up come­dy. He parades around dressed like a clown, tells Photo courtesy of Universal Pictures 
one-liners and uses pup­Robin Williams (left) stars with Monica Potter in the hit holiday 
pets to get a smile. 
comedy, "Patch Adams." 


When these antics are repeatedly scorned by the dean and seemingly the entire medical profossion, Patch realizes vet another dream. to build the Gesundheit Institute, a free clinic where illness is combated with humanism. But even this idea is frowned 

struggles of a small community 
through the art of humor. 

Enjoy watching the scenic land­scape, the many pints of Guiness and the Irish sense of comedy. As a for­eign film, American viewers will probably not rncognize any of the cast members, but these are all established professionals in Europe. David Kelly as Michael is clearly a talent to respect and deserving of recognition for this role. Director Kirk Jones also may receive notice for constructing a superb piece that should be a film to watch around the Oscars. This film will make you f'eel -like a million dollars as you contem­plate how you would react to winning the lottery. So go see this film and share in the winnings because this film has glaring Oscar winning poten­
tial. 

classes where improvisation is taught as an essential. When Williams would take the stage, he would leave his fellow stu­dents rolling in the aisles. But he, much like Patr,h Adams, was scorned by his professors because he refused to follow the norm. They often told him that what he was doing was stand-up comedy, NOT acting. So, in many ways, this role seems to he tailor made. 
This film, half comedy and half roman­tic-tragedy, is nothing short of fabulous. Tho actors personify their roles, making them all the more realistic and endear­ing. For those who enjoyed the off-thP­w all, somewhat crude comedy of "Theri~•s Something About Mary," this film embodies a similar sense of humor. But for some odd reason, most film crit­ics have shamelessly bashed this movifl. Do not be deterred by lheir opinions. 
A quick note for those cynical critics ­a film must be worth seeing if the audi­ence applauds while the credits are rolling. 



Monday, January 18, 1999 -----------------'---OTHE -------:------------------page 13
BSERVER 

¦ VIDEO PICK OF THE WEEK ¦ CHART~ TOPPERS 
By JULIE HAMILTON 
Srn1~ Movi~ ()irk 

Ilave you cvor wondcrnd what would happen if you had caughl Lhc train you missnd? I low dif'fcrenl would your life bP'? Would it remain Lhr same, or could such a small, trivial cvenl change the courso of vour life forever'! 
In the ~:harming romantic-comedy. "Sliding Doors". we arn shown two differ­Ml paths that a young Kritish woman's fifo could take as a rnsult of simply miss­ing or catching a subway train. In a split scicond, lwr life bncomm; two separate stories that are both intrii-,ruing and entcir­taining. 
t\s l1111 film hngins, Helen, playnd hy (;wy1rnth Paltrow, rushes to the Public Hclations firm whnrn she works. When slw arriv,is, shn is fired for a combination ol' factors, and she leavns for llrn suhwav station to 
r<•t11r11 ho11tP.· The story successful. The other splits as slw misscis and story begins to evoke catclws llf'r train at thn sympathy because we sanrn Linw. know about Jerry's 

Sud1 a quick and u11im-deceit. 
.. ,, portant 1w1•n t begins to Catching the train was slrnpti llnl1rn's tifn into the best thing to happen tlws1: two storins that both to Helen because she pivot at thn train station. realized she had to Wlwn she catches the depend on herself with­train, I!Hien rnturns to her out help from anyone, and her boyfriend Jerry's especially Jerry. She homl' to find him wilh begins seeing James, who anotlwr woman. When is a positive influence on she misses the train. slrn her, and she even starts also misses Jerry's mis­her own Public Relations
Pholo courtesy of Miramax 
lrnss. who leaves bdore firm.
Gwyneth Paltrow stars in 
I h1 lcn comes home. "Sliding Doors." 
In both stories there is nvidence that llelen is a strong, indepen­dent woman who knows how to get her fotlt back on the grnund, despite the fact that she has lost her job. All the while, tho major scenes in the movie revolve around a pair of sliding doors that I lelen tiithcr enters or exits. You must look 
cardully for this symbolism ­
¦ THE AWARDS CIRCUIT 
Here's a look at the nominees for the 1999 Golden Globe Awards 
FILM: 
Bost Mot.ion Picture (Drama) 
Hliwbeth Gods and Monsters Saving Private llyan 
711e llorse Whisperer The Truman Show 
Best Motion Pkturn (ConwdJ orMusir..aJI 
!Julll'orth 
PatchAdrims 
Shakt!speare in Lor,e 
Still Crazy J11e Mask ofZorro Thrre 's Something About 
Mary 
Best Actrc,ss iComedy or Music.a.I) 
Cameron Diaz, There's Something About Ma.ry 
ChrL~tina Ricci, The Opposite 
oj'Sex 

it is easy 
Gwyneth.Paltrow; ·...·>.B~lJ)j:recto.l'.··•····ii•··.\·•·• ;p ,BestActl'.ess{Cmnedy) Shakespeare irt Love. ... . , : 'JobtiMagcl~p{,S:'1q~~s,pca,,;{Unc ·••·· ....··• (;:aµsta I-1ocl<hax-tlAlly Mc8eal. Jane Hprrocks. Little:Voice , · ·· •· ·· ,Lo1;Je · ..·· •.·· ..• •.· ...·.• ... ·... > ·.··. .·. · .. ·· · ·.. > qtristina Appl~gate, Je.siie 
1

Meg Ryan, You've GotM<!il ·· ·.. ·>Peter Weir.;.'l'he Tritman 1 Jtnna Elftnan, Dharma. and . . /'.'$/JozV ,.... ' . ' •. ;>: . ; . ; :; idrig.· . . · ............ · ...... · .. ·. Best Actress (Drama) •. ·< llobert.~~.cif()t-tl,;'.lpt?H~i:s~,,· · um San Giacomo. Jitst 
Cate Blanchett, Eliza.beth •; Wll~perer . · ( . 
Emily WatsQfr,Hilary ttnJf 
Jackie
Fernanda Montenegro. Central Station · · · Meryl Streep,One·True 1'/1,ing Susan Sai-ini~oll; ~5't(!ptnom: 
Rest Actor 0)rama) Ian McKclleh, Gods a.iiµ.Monsters 
Jim Cnrroy, The TrumaiJ 
Tom Hiwks. Saving Private 
Shou,  ·  ,  
Nick Noire, AJJliction  
Stephen Fry, WUd'e  . .  ...  , ,  

Ryan 
BestActor · (Comedy or MU$icn,Jl , 
Antonio Banderas,. The.Mask,. ofZorr~ , . ..· . . . , , . . , , ;, 
John lravolt.a, Prrmqrff Cu.tors,. 
Midmol Caine, l:ittleVotc~ , · i' :,,,.J,l<tirl·ROssellPell S:(l() v;1•v~n ll)TBC. • . · ..· . .. . . . ..· 
Robin Willip_ms: Pqt~A . ;.. '•! ,,,, • 'tb~h~ne' . .. 'ii .,, ,.:; r iµ6rdWqrmation,. yisit 
. . . . . . . go\(l(lng\~s;()rg, . .

Warren Seatty,, IJ!'lwort · 
•'·.<' .. , •-,.,,. ·:...-''/ ·• ·,•;,i\,;.·:,:o/'...>.: ... ·. ··< ..,..,i, •. ,. ·. ,.•• 
to miss during each story as we watch I lolen 's grace several difUcult situations. 
The story where Holen catches the train is focused around the happenstance encount'er with a sweet and humorous man, James. After engaging in a short conversation on "the tube," Helen goes home, finds Jerry with Lydia (Jeanne Tripplehorn), walks out and ends up at a har where she coincidentally runs into James again. 
WhAn l lclcn misses the train, we watch as her boyfriend Jerry lies to her abot1t his affair while Helen dutifully works sev­eral part-time jobs. She suspects that something could be wrong with their relationship, and even questions Jerry. lfo denies it, of course. 
The story line that follows the Helen that caught the train makes the viewer cheer ( lelen on for her strength and abili­
ty to pick up the pieces of 
her broken life and be 
Even though both of the 
stories are separate, toward the end of the film they begin to intersect, showing how some events can change the course of your life, but some­times, things will happen regardless of what steps are taken beforehand. 
This film does an-excellent job of showing how when things in life are meant to'be, they will eventually be. 
Sb~kliarI<.app' ..· . rSteYl:in ·SpJet.,
:rri1:ate8p~rt, ·; . 
·'ELEVJSICJN;i, 
.· .·: BO$t .· t. . . ·.. ·' 
~· . . . . 'Fqlicity ·••· 
,,Law&Or 
TM Pr®f,i Th6XJFile
:·.· _·.-.,_ -~=· ,, :~ : 
· Be$t1V 
A.ttyiJ.¢11{at
•Dharma and ; .:'.frqstet > . 
.JustSlioo 
'piri°Crt]}
:-' ',-; ·: ~-;. 
. Gplia,n Apgets't>Q,, ,The'X-FUe~ ''.The (lo~den Cildbes will air 
..-Julianna Mar}Wlies.ER iie,~i'S~nd~y}'Ja.nuary 24, at 


Movie Title 
1. 
Varsity Blues 

2. 
A Civil Action 

3. 
The Thin Red Line 

4. 
Patch Adams 


5. At First Sight 
6. 
Stepmom 

7. 
You've Got Mail a.· The Prince of Egypt 

8. 
Virus 


10. Shakespeare in Love 
10. In Dreams 
Source: Associated Press 
.·. , , , . JN[iJ. · . e·• . · 
....·. et~ :< .. . fa.~. JQcssic.a Parker. Sex . , Sauirt"f! }{J~~the City-· 
....... · ( .: 1· L;;..; ·· .. . '' · i BestActor (Drama)
11 
· ,AnthonyHdwarqs,BR ... ' '• ~~.vid P\lt'h.9,'.Jl}<"TM X·Filf:lit 
. :,Oylan .M~Permott, Thfl ··l>ractire' · • 
.• ''{itµthySni11:$,i\1l''.PD!Jlue . ~ce Henrik$e11; Millenium 
'<' ::' . l3est A<;tor (Comedy} 
, Ge-orge. Segal, J-w:;t Shoot Me , J()hn Llthg9w, 3rd· Rock from 
tkeSun '.KflseyGl'ammer, Fras_ier .~1kha.olJ.Fox,Spi.n City ·Thomas Gibson, Dharma and 
qre,g 

"Armageddon" was the top grossing film of 1998 released during the year. Of course, as if anyone could forget, "Titanic," which opened in 1997, was the biggest winner in years, becoming the top money-maker of al! time. 
Gross Sales 
$ 147.9 million $ 144.2 million $ 140.5 million $ 136. 3 million $ 136.1 milliGn $ 134. l million 



ff~,c.e 
Gross Sales 
$ 14. 3 million $ 10.9 million $ 10. 5 million $ 10.2 million $ 7.7 million $ 6. 3 million $ 5.9 million $ 5.0 million $ 5.0 million $ 4.0 million $ 4.0 million 
Do you like 

to watch movies? 
WHO DOESN'T? 
Quench your thirst for films by becoming a Scene Movie Critic! 
Call 1-4540 or 4-3271 if you are interested in writing for Scene. 
.. 
.­
,. . 
.. .. 
1
. Titanic* 

2. 
Armageddon 

3. 
Saving Private Ryan 

4. 
There's Something About Mary 

5. 
The Waterboy 

6. 
Dr. Dolittle 

7. 
Deep Impact 

8. 
Godzilla 

9. 
Rush Hour 

10. 
Good Will Hunting* 


Source: Variety 
*1998 figures only; opened in 1997 


Monday, January 18, 1999
The Observer· SPORTS 


¦ WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Knights knock off Badgers 
Associated Press 
Shawnetta Stewart scored 20 points, and No. 15 Rutgers used full-court pressure to defeat Wisconsin 78-62 on Sunday. 
The Scarlet Knights (15-3) led 42-30 at halftime and stayed in control in the second half, fighting off rallies by the Badgers. 
After a jumper by Stewart extended the lead to 19 points, the Badgers (8-9) cut it to 71-60 on a Jessie Stomski basket with 2:19 left. 
Tomora Young sank a 3-pointer to help Rutgers put the game out of reach. 
Young added 17 points and Tammy Sutton-Brown had 14 for Rutgers. 
Stomski, who battled foul trou­ble in the second half. led Wisconsin with 1 9 points. 
Rutgers pulled ahead 16-12 in the first half and then turned on its pressure defense, forcing turnovers on the next five Wisconsin possessions on the way to a 25-14 lead. 
NOHTHWESTERN 48 OH.IO STATE 41 
Leslie Schock scored 16 points and grabbed 10 rebounds as Northwestern upset No. 19 Ohio State 48-41 Sunday. 
Ohio State (12-4, 5-1 Big Ten) and the Wildcats (8-8, 2-4) were tied at 22 at halftime, but Northwestern went ahead for good 25-24 on Schock's 3-pointer early in the second half' and stretched the margin to 40-33. 

--The Buckeyes got within 43-41 on Larecha Jones' layup with 2:22 remaining but they couldn't score the rest of the way. The Wildcats made 5-of-6 free throws in the last 49 seconds. 
Marrita Porter's 14 points, six rebounds and two steals topped Ohio State. The Buckeyes made only 29 percent {18-of-62) of their field goals, including only 1-of-16 from 3-point range, 
ALABAMA 75 
MISSI~SIPPI STATE 59 
Latriosh Jones scored 20 points and didn't miss a shot to lead No. 19 Alabama to a 7 5-59 victory over Mississippi State on Sunday. 
The Crimson Tide (12-5, 2-3 SEC) won their 26th consecutive game in the series, which dates back to the 1976-77 season. The last Mississippi State victory was on Jan. 14, 1981, a 76-69 win in Tuscaloosa. 
Alabama jumped out to an early 10-0 lead in the first five minutes. 

Mississippi State (10-6, 2-4) could not cut the advantage to less than six points the rest of the way. Alabama led 37-28 at the half. 
Dominique Canty scored 14 points and LaToya Caudle added 10 for the Crimson Tide. Jones was 7-of-7 from the field and 6-of­6 from the free throw line. 
Alabama shot 54 percent from the field and held Mississippi State to 39 percent shooting. 
The Lady Bulldogs, led by Jennifer rambrough's 21 points and l O rebounds, went 1-of-19 from the 3-point line. 
TENNESSEE 98 KENTUCKY60 

Chamique lloldsclaw overcame 
a slow start to score 32 points. 
and No. 1 Tennessee recovered 
from -a subpar first-half perfor­
mance to beat Kentucky 98-60 
Sunday. 
The Lady Vols (15-1, 5-0 
Southeastern Conference), who 
celebrated coach Pat Sumrnitt's 
25th year of coaching in a half­
time ceremony, outscored 
Kentucky 59-28 in the second half 
to win handily. Kentucky (11-6, 2­
4) trailed by just seven points at halftime. 
Holdsclaw scored just four 
points in the first 12 minutes of 
the game, but finished the first 
half' with 19. She and Kellie Jolly 
keyed a 17 -6 run to open the sec­
ond half. 
Holdsclaw's two free throws 
with 14:08 left gave Tennessee a 
62-42 lead. Another Tennessee 
spurt, this time led by Semeka 
Randall, gave the Lady Vols a 78­
49 lead. 
Kentucky, which_ got 22 points 
from Tiffany Wait, scored just ·seven points in the final six min­utes as Tennessee built the lead to as many as 30 points. 
The Lady Vols started fast, tak­.ing a 14-7 lead in the opening 
minutes. Randall led the early 
charge, converting two 3-point 
plays and a short jumper in the 
lane. 
But Kentuckv, behind the scor­
ing of Wait an"d Laura Meadows, 
rallied to within 20-19 with 8:41 
remaining. The Lady Wildcats· 
later took the lead at 22-21 on 
Wait's 3-pointer with 6:57 left. 
Tennessee played better defense 
down the stretch in the first half. 
Kentucky was held to seven points 
in the final five minutes, and 
Holdsclaw scored 14 of the last 15 
Tennessee points to help the Lady 
Vols to a39-32 halftime lead. 
Randall added 19 points and Kristen Clement 13 for Tennessee. Holdsclaw also.had nine rebounds 
and four assists. Jaye Barnes added 19 points for Kentucky. 
PENN STATE 74 
MICHIGAN 66 
Clara Carter scored 16 points as 
No. 20 Penn State held off a late 
Mirhigan rally for a 74-66 victory 
on Sunday. 
Carter also pulled down 10 rebounds for the Nittany Lions ·02-4, 4-2 Big Ten), which led 40­
31 at halrtime. 
The Wolverines cut the .deficit to 
70-66 with 3:33 left in the game, 
but were held scoreless the rest of 
the game. 
Michigan (9-6, 1-4 Big Ten) lost 
it-, fifth straight contest. 
Shawnta Vanzant scored 15 
points for Penn State, while Helen 
Darling added 11. 
Alayne Ingram led the 
Wolverillf's with 16 points while 
Anne Thorius had 15 and Alison 
Miller had 12. 
Michigan outrebounded PPnn 
State 45-42, but the Nittany Lions 
hit nine 3-pointers. to the 
Wolverines' two. 
DUKE 67 
NORTH CAROLINA 62 
Nicole Erickson scored 17 
points, and 12th-ranked Duke 
won its 10th straight game, beat­
ing poor-shooting North Carolina 
State 67-62 Sunday. 
Michele VanGorp and Krista 
Gingrich added 12 points each, 
and Hilary Howard had 10 for the 
Blue Devils (15-4, 7-0 Atlantic 
Coast Conference). 
Tyaesha Lewis scored 21 points 
for N.C. State (9-7, 3-4 ACC). 
Summer Erb, the ACC's top scorer 
and rebounder coming into the 
game, was held to 11 points -12 
below her average -and eight 
rebounds by a Duke defense that 
limited N.C. State to 25-of-59 
shooting. 
Erickson was 6-of-11 shooting, 
including 3-of-11 on 3-pointers as 
Duke went 24-of-57 overall. 
Duke took a 35-34 lead into the 
break after a first half with eight 
lead changes and six ties. 
Lewis had 12 first-half points 
with two 3-pointers, the last com­
ing with 3:56 left for a 34-25 N.C. 
State lead. But the Wolfpack then 
went O-for-5 with two turnovers, 
allowing Duke to score 10 straight 
points. 
Howard capped the run with a 
layup off a steal by VanGorp to 
give Duke its halftime lead. 
The Blue Devils went in front for 
good on two free throws by 
VanGorp with 9:02 to play. 


+\:\, R.i,cago and ,,h'i~ilmit1ix end even 
. CHICAGO Brown's first NHL goal With 9:58 lifted the Chica.go Blackhawks to 
9yotesynSunday night. .· .. ltl•plti')'Cl' trade.with Montreal n't conia.ected in 37 previous 
le11s and Blackhawks. ~.P.. i.i bidby Phoenix go,i.It(lnder earl'l'llls second shutout of the season 
gainsf his old teammates. Waite spent nine.years as a pro in the Blackhawks' 
Daniel ijl'iere, who scored a second-peri­
,. g9al. wai, the only Phoenix. shooter to 
heat . ..>• .· ..•... ks goaltender Jocelyn Thibault. Fortliljgatne', Chicago outshot Phoenix 22-21. Thr Coyotes are 2-l~l in their la.st four games follow­
ing f~ follp•game winless streak. 'rbe B}ackn;twks are 1-5-3 in their last nine. , PhOenf.i\ea.ptain Ke.ith Tkachuk returned to the 
. Coyqtes•:liQqup after mi?sing eight games with a broken rib. Phonctlix's lea.ding scorer, Jeremy Roenick, suffered an eye',f't].jµ;ty;.Sunday when he was high-sticked by Chlcig u,g Gilmour late in the scoreless first peri­od ....no ii:l not return and was set to be re-exam­ilttdE piatisi)n Monday. 
Jpe. sc9dng with a power-play goal at 
· d period: He whipped a high shot past Stoufslde the crease after Mike tM puck to him from a scramble of 
at 10:02 of the third period on the .ac. .. ·•• ... ·,.·.• T6th shot of the game. After cruising upihe Sl.the connected on a backhand denection from the edge of tpe crease, Brown was set up by Mike Maneluk. With 1:30 left in overtime, Thibault made a sprawling save on a point-blank shot by Stapleton, who cut alone across.the crease. 
Oilers 4 
Red Wings 1 

The Edmonton Oilers celebrated center Doug Weight's return to the ice with a 4-1 win over the defending Stan1ey ~up champion Detroit Red Wings on Sunday night. .•.....•·. . 
Weighfllad .missed 34 games since undergoing arthro­scopic sufg~r;y for a torn medial collateral ligament. in 
[)e ~Ilfy.'.91.a.p Jon1 Poti had assists on the third and 
h~ 'f,ighf  eeNov. 3. He was injured Oct.  28 against  
,  ·  (Zapitals.  
~-Oy~.J)evereaux, Ryan Smyth and Pat  
·  .. fonthe Oilers. Steve Yzerman had  
..  trOit..  
'ngal3:27.()fthe second when ettoit defenseman and past~.yerp11µx put the Oilers ahead 2• 1 at iifOsgo9d up closl:l, Smyth backhanded ound at 13:21 and Falloon also scored  
ate  d,  

f&ufth go~ls by Smyth and Falloon, . W~iglitt(J()k .a··regular •shift on a line with Smyth and rightwiµjfl3J11Guerin. Weight also played on the power 
play. < •···... ··.. . . 

Oilers goalie Bob Essensa improved his record to 3-0-2 i11 hii,<siJ1;th ~trl'iight appearance. Osgopd :",Va!i [~placed by Norm Maracle for the third periodi:aftetst<>pping 20 of24 shots. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. .
Classifieds The charge is 3 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the nght to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
www.urnversitydirectones.com STARTING $185 $350 080 x3533 MONTH/PERSON It was a run by fruiting.
NOTICES 
232-2595 hello keough boys. Coach's 

• 
SPRING BREAK 99! For sale: Digitech RP-20 Corby's sr barE and all we have lo It appears as if her skate got Spnng Break Bahamas Party Cancun • Nassau • Jamaica guitar floor pre-amp/effects proces­show for Il was a closed sign, misty caught in his lederhosen. Cruise!5Nights $279! Includes Travel Free and make lots of NICE HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL sor. Ex. condition, only 1 year old. windows and a student union rave. Meals & Free PartieslAwesome Cash!Top reps am offered on-site YEAR NORTH OF ND 8,6.4,3.BED­$350 o.b.o. Call Brendan at 287-Stark is back and in full effect. Beaches.NightlifelDeparts From staff jobs.All-Inclusive ROOM 2773097 9910 Florida!Cancun & Jamaica Deals.Special Discounts up to $100 good thing you have darts, james. We are still sweating in the base­$399Ispring breaktravel. com per person.Lowest price 3BEDROOM HOME IN ROSELMJD LAPTOP PC ment ol South Dining Hall 
1-800-678-6386 Guaranteed.Call now for details' AVAILABLE NOW 2773097 P-133w/MMX 
www .class travel. com otlice 97. Windows95 I blame everything on the interna­JORGE Spring Break Panama City 800/838-6411 HOUSE FOR RENT 32MB RAM. ~arrying Case lional echo. Jamaican me sweat! $129IBoardwalk Room w/Kitchen 5 bedrooms, 2 baths. dishwasher. And Much More! Next To Clubs I? Parties-Free washer/dryer. safe neighborhood Call Patrick@ 634-1236 Leave it to her to sleep on the ToepickI Orinks IDaytona $149!South Beach FOR RENT close to campus, alarm system. couch at a pany. $129ICocoa Beach $149Ispring­central air. large living area, fenced Please stay alive. breaktravel.com HOUSE FOR RENT yard. wood floors. one large orien­The whole time he was out of town. 1-800-678-6386 TWO BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS tal rug. $1100/mo. PERSONAL Yo quiero Taco Bell. 
4-5 BR Available June for Taebo that early is insane. Summer. August for Fall. Hsu is in charge and sometimes [ WANTED Dishwasher. Washer/Dryer. Full congratutatIons dianeI I knew /OU Hippie love is a great thing. that scares me but what are we to Basement. Large Backyard and FOR SALE would get a great part! do. SALES & MARKETING Off Street Parking MONITORED • Love, heather Next time I am in the dorm, Hsu's 
INTERNSHIPS SECURITY SYSTEM INCLUDED. Beautiful brass bed.queen size.with room will IJe the first stop. I have faith University Directories offers CAIi 289-4712. orthopedic mattress set and deluxe pa1d.full-t1me summer sales and frame.N.ew never used.still In plas0 I Ove never lia,J so much fun play­To answer Joe's question: He is a Forget Valium and go on a protein marketing internships.open to all tic.$225 ing trivial pursuitE. ftnd brent and I complete player. diet disciplines.College credit avail­219-862-4043 did NOT get all the easy questions, able Training program Great WALK TO SCHOOL even if they were about girl scout Once I am gone you will be left to resume booster' 1(800)743-5556 or 2-6 BEDROOM Computer 486 33MHz cookies. figure it out on your own. 
Monday, January 18, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 15
~----------------­

¦ MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Loss of Murphy impacts Irish strength 
Spcdal 10 The Observer 58 in n Big l•:ast game mako a f-ield goal until Phil shoulder led him to shoot 1-11 Saturday. llickcy's layup with 13:05 left from the field. Pl IILJ\DELl'I IIA Thn Wildcats were 8 of 12 in in the lirst half. John Celestand had 16 points 
llownrd Brown scor11d 19 the first six minutes of thf' llarold Swanagan had a sea­ror the Wildcats (B-5, 4-4). poinLs as Villanova. which gain. while lhe Irish were son-high 22 poinls for the Irish who defeated Notre Dame by a startnd t.lrn ganrn with an 18-0 scorniP.ss in their first ·12 pos­19-9, :J-4), which shot just 34 93-62 score on Jan. 7. Malik nzn, dt11'rn1tr.d Notr<i D:tmr 85-snssio ns. The Irish did not percent and WPre 2 of 14 from Allen had 14 points and a 
the three-point line. Notre career-high eight blocked shots Dame also comitted 21 for Villanova. turnovers. The Wildcats led 43-27 at 


The lrii.;h played without two halftime following a 55 percent key playPrs, freshmen Troy shooting performance. A 22-7 Murphy and David Graves .. run at the start of' the sncond Murphy suffered an ankle half capped by a 3-point shot injury at Thursday night's by Brian Lynch gave Villanova practice and is expectod to be a 65-34 advantage, and the out for two to rive weeks. IC'ad readrnd 79-47 with four Graves was injured on minutes to play. Thursday night as wnll, and Thf: victory gave Villanova an while the freshman did play 11-1.0 edge in the all-limr, some on Saturday. a sprained series. 

WantA Challenge?
) 
OFFICER TRAINING SCHOOL 
Start your career off on the right foot by enrolling in the Air Force Officer Training School. There you will become a commissioned officer in just 12 weeks. From the start you'll enJoy great pay, complete medical and dental care, 30 days of vacation each year, 
plus the opportunity to travel and 
AIM HIGH 
see the world. To discover how high -AIR-..llii......... a career in the Air Force can take -RJRCE~ _you, call 1-800-423-USAF. or visit 
our website at www.airforce.com
www.airforce.com 

Crew 
continued from page 24 

Charles Hegalta. As the coxswain in the spring of 1998, his varsity four boat look first at the Clnmson Sprints Hegatta, linishnd third at the Merrill Lynch/Big Ten Hega.tta and was fourth at the Midwest Springs Regatta. 
"I am V<'ry IJltcHLscd lo havn Kevin join our staff," Stone said. "Ilis prior oxpcrionce as a lightweight rower and coxswain will be a great asset lo those an~as of' our pro­
gram." 
The Sports Department is currently hiring for Production Assistants and Sports Writers for the spring term. Please call 1-4543 for more information. 

c~~~riiTi1iiiion SPRING MANDATORY CLUB MEETINGS 
Coundl 


All clubs receiving funding through the club Coordination Council must attend their respective mandatory club meeting. The agenda will include a discussion On the allocation & registration processes, explanation of University policies, and the elections for CCC division representatives. 
ACADEMIC Monday, 1/18/99 9:00 pm ETHNIC Tuesday, 1 /19/99 7:00 pm SERVICE/SOCIAL ACTION Tuesday, 1/19/99 8:30 pm ATHLETIC Wednesday, 1/20/99 7:30 pm 
SPECIAL INTEREST Wednesday, 1/20/99 9:00 pm ­
ALL MEETINGS HELD IN THE 

MONTGOMERY THEATER 

*If you are unable to attend your respective division meeting, you will be permitted to attend another division's meeting; however, your club will forfeit its voting rights for the CCC division representative elections. 
Faliure to attend one of the club meetings could result in a reduction in student activitiy fee allocation. 
• 
Any questions, contact Ryan Willerton (willerton. 1@nd.edu) or Ryan Harding (harding.3@nd.edu) 
Monday, January 18, 1999
The Observer• SPORTS
page 16 
¦ NFL 





Injury-plagued Chandler finds championship at last 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS 
So many times during his injury-plagued career, Chris Chandler found himself crum­pled on the turf. 
But the Atlanta Falcons quar­terback was standing tall and proud Sunday. After 11 years and six teams, he's going to the 
Super Bowl 
"l had to overcome a lot and l never gave up. despite some poor years." Chandier said after guiding the Falcons w a 30-27 overtime victory over the Minnesota Vikings. "Now, I find myself in a good situation and 
it's very rewarding." 
The 33-year-olu Chandler 
bounced from Indianapolis to 
Tampa Bay to Phoenix to Los Angeles to Houston -never staying anywhere for more than a couple of years -before the falcons arquired him before the 1997 season for a couple of low­
round draft picks. 
E,en roach Dan Reeves has admitted that he didn't know how good a quarterbark he was getting. and how could he? Chandler rarely managed to play a full season because of injuries, earning the nickname "Chris Chandelier." 


On Sunday, they should have called him John Elway. Chandler directed an eight-play, 71-yard drive that tied the game at 27 with 49 seconds remain­ing. He completed four of six passes for 56 yards and also had a 9-yard run that left him briefly hobbled with a shin injury. 
"It wasn't anything major." said Chandler, who shook off the p,1in and his pa.st. Three plays later, he thrnw a 16-vard touch­down pass to Terance Mathis for the lying touchdown. 
fn overtime. Chandler and the 

Palcons put together another 
memorable drive after taking 
over at the Atlanta 9, moving 70 
yards in 10 plays to set up 
Morten Andersen's game-win­ning, :18-ya.rd field goal. Chandler completed all three of his passes. accounting for 47 yards, and had another big run for 6 yards. 
"It was very special the way we won that football game," said Chandler, who has been named to the Pro Bowl twice since com­ing to Atlanta. "You look back at the way our season went and this game symbolizes our sea­son. We had to overcome.a lot of things to win." 
With Jamal Anderson held to 
67 yards on 23 carries, it fell to 
Chandler to bail out the Falcons 
from a 20-7 deficit. He complet­
ed 27 of 43 passes for :HO 
yards, including three touch-

Ci.) 
INFORMATION MEETING
c.)
C Sunday, January r7 Rolfs Sports Recreation Center ,111111 2:00pm~Activity Room 2 •w,-------­
Classes Meet 
Saturdays.,_ 12:30-2:00µm 

= 
Tue::.days ~7:45-9:0opm 


Rolls Sports Recreation Center-Acti_vity Room 2 
Register m adv::mce at RecSports Classfee is $35.00 
Sign-Ups begin Monday, January 18, 8:00am Classes begin Saturday, January 23 S1Jace is limited 


THE 
down passes. 
"What we do running the ball is important," Chandler said. "but it can't be done without our passing game. We've proven all season long that we can throw the ball, we can make some big plays. We did that today." 
Reeves, who coached Elway in Denver. said few quarterbacks could have duplicated Chandler's performance against the Vikings. 
"I told him after we went down there and tied the score, that tanks right up there with any of the big-time quarter­backs," the coach said. "He's done it with the pressure on him, made some big-time throws. did it after being hurt from the scramble. hung in there." 

Before the season. the Falcons signed Chandler to a four-year. $25 million contract extension that would keep him in Atlanta through 2002. 
Keenan Hall proudly announces ti.at tl.e ~3rd 
jAnnuol Keenan ilooefl'I 
will Le l.eld al 7:30 pm on January ~8, ~9, and 30 in Saint Mary's O'Laughlin J\.uditorium. 
Wednesday, January 20, at 


1:30 pm at the O'Laughlin Auditorium ticket window 
Friday, January 22, at 2:00 pm at Gate 3 of the Joyce 
Center 

Keenan Review t-shirts will also be on sale at these times for $10. 








is accepting applications for: 
1999-2000 


Editor-in-Chief 

Any undergraduate or graduate student at the University of Notre Dame or Saint
-
Mary's College is encouraged to apply. The editor-in-chief is entirely responsible for the operation ofThe Observer. Applicants should have a strong interest in journalism and pos­sess solid management, public relations, and communications skills. Previous newspaper experience and a background in writing and editing, while helpful, are not required. 
Applicants should submit a resume andfive-page statement to Heather Cocks by 5 p. m. Monday, January 25. For additional information about the position or application process, contact 
... 
Heather Cocks at 631-4542, or stop by the office downstairs in South Dining Hall. 


Monday, January 18, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 17 
¦ BOXING 
Tyson rallies with knockout victory 

IAS VEGAS 

Onr. punch silencr.d Francois Bothll. It did not silence Miki~ Tyson's critics. 
Unlil Im knocknd out his taunting opponent with a counter right to the head in the fifth round, Tyson was head<1d for his third straight loss, onr. that would have wrecked his cariwr. 
!In lost all of thl' first four rounds on llrn cards of two judges and won only one round 011 Uw third judge's card. 
"I didn't prove anything," Tyson said. ''I'm just trying. I've 
got a long way to go. We're Showtime and with tho MGM puncher. At the moment, Tyson
~~~==~~===~===~=~=~~=~==~~ does not need to l'acB 
a power puncher. Tyson, who will be 33 on June :rn. now must turn his attention to out-of-the-ring


ROLFS SPORTS RECREATION CENTER 
problems.

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME On Feb. 5, he faces sentcnc­ltolfs Sports Recreation Center ing in Maryland on a no-contest 
pica on two misdemeanor

Drop-In Recreation Schedule 
assault charges. One man accused Tyson of punching him and another accused or kicking

Vollcyhall Sundays 12:00-2:00 
him in the groin after a traflic 

In-Line Hockey Sundays 8:30-10:30 accident involving his wife, Floor Hockey Mondays 8:30-10:30 Monica. Tyson has setlled with 
both men out of' court.

Indoor Soccer Tuesdays 8:30-10:30 
After the sentencing, Indiana Volleyball Wednesdays 7:00-10:00 authorities will consider whether Tyson violated his
Lacrosse Thursdays 8:30-10:30 
parole !lnd what action, if any. Badminton Fridays 7:00-10:00 thcy will take. Tyson served three years in an Indiana
Badminton Saturdays 9:00-11:00 
prison on a rape conviction. His probation is to end in March. 

Come by ~o self or Bring a Fr1·endf Those closely involved with 
ur , · Tyson's career seem confident All times are PM. Schedule is in effect only when classes he will not be sent back to prison. 
are in session. r h t·
1~~~~§~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:_._'.'l~'y:_:s_'.,'.o~n_:w_:a~n~t:_s_:t~o~ig~.~t~1~iu::_r'.__:r~in~g. i e gra e my arm. e 
-
THElOTH ANNUAL 
NOTRE DAME 
STUDENT 



FESTIVAL 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:30 & 9:45PM 
JANUARY 22&23 
$3 ADMISSION SNITE MUSEUM OF ART 
SPECIAL ENCORE SHOWING MONDAY JAN.25 7:30 PM 
PRESENTED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF FILM, TELEVISION, AND THEATRE www.nd.edu/ ~cothweb 

working on it." 
While Tyson hasn't lost his punching power, many in box­ing contend his performance Saturday night underscored the opinion that he has fallen a long way from his pedestal as "the baddest man on the plan­et." and it is too late lo climb back. 
Tl! be back in the gym in two wneks, .. said Tyson, whose flawed but spPctacular victory in tho MGM Grand Garden was his first fight since he bit Evandor llolyfield's cars June 28, 1997. 
Plans call for Tyson, who has multiple-bout deals with Grand. to light again April 24. 
Asked if his next opponent would bf) Axel Schulz. of Germany, who was at ringside Saturday night. Tyson said. "I don't know. I guess, I'll fight anybody." 
Schulz. who lost title-bout decisions to George Foreman and to Botha, is onfl of the names on a list of prospective opponents. 
Jay Larkin. in charge of box­ing for Showtime, had said the quality of Tyson's performance against Botha would detnrmimi the quality of his next oppo­ncnt. 
Schulz. like Botha, is not a big 

---------. Tuesdays and Thursdays 6­

• All r·i1sht, this is my 
last idea .. 
There's these tWO girls. ...and it's their first communion. ...well anyway, a horror film!" 
times this year, and Larkin would like to see that fourth fight be a third match with Holyfield, who stopped Tyson in the 11th round Nov. 9, 1996, then won the Bite Fight. 
The Tyson who beat Botha wasn't as good as the Tyson who lost the two Holyfield fights. 
Tommy Brooks, Tys'on's now trainer, had Tyson working on basics in preparation for Botha. But Saturday night, Tyson didn't punch to the body, hardly ever jabbed and loaded up on his punches in quest of a knockout. 
Asked if he knew he was behind on points, Tyson said. "J wasn't worried ab1iut that." 
Brooks said Sunday, "He said, 'I got him in my sights coach. just give me time."' 
Tyson should have been wor­ried. Many of his power punch-cs were wild, and he was get­ting popped by right hands. 
Age and two long periods of inactivity have robbed Tyson of m-uch of the quic,kness that made him the worl.d's most feared fighter from 1986 to 1990. That quickness enabled Tyson lo overcome the fact that he is a small heavyweight. He is listed at 5-foot-11 1-2 but is closer to 5-9 1-2. 
One important thing gone f'rom Tyson's arsenal is intimi­dation. Botha showed no fear of Iron Mike. 
At the end of the first round the two men, who were in a clincli at the bell, began a hit­
ting-and-shoving match that brought a dozen security and corner men scrambling into the 
k bb d h 
¦ SPORTS BRIEFS 

JAZZ DANCE -Classes will meet Saturdays from 12:30-2 
p.m. and Tuesdays from 7:45• 9 p.m. Cost is $35. For addi­tional information, please con­tact RecSports at 1 ·6'HJO. 
SWING DANCE -All levels are welcome for this semester long course that 1rniets on Wednesdays from 6:30-8 p.m. in HSRC Activ.ity Hoom 2, To find out more. plt~as,~ att,~nd the infonnation meeting being held at 6:30 p.m. on WedMsda,y in the RSRC. Cost for thc class is $20 and space is limited to the first 25 females and 25 rhales that r1)gisl1)r. If you have an.y ques­tions, please contact HecSports at 1-6100. 
MODERN DANCE -This class will be tailored for a range of abilitit~s. Semester long course that will meet Saturday 11 a.m.-12::{0 p.m. and 'fU(~sday 6:30-7:45 p.m. Cost for the class is $35. For more information, please con­tact RecSpurts at 1·6100. 
BEGINNER BALLET -No experience 1rncess11,ry for this introduction to ballet. Class meets Sunday 1-2:30 p.m. and Thursday 6:30-7:45 p.m. in HSHC Activity Hoom 2. Cost for the class is $35. 
ADVANCED BALLET ­This semester long course meet<; on Sunday 2:30-4 p.in. and Thursday 7:45-9 p.m. Cost for the class is $ 35. Pointe will be offered on Sundays 4-4:45 p,m. Cost for Pointe is only $5. 
SHORIN-RYU KARATE_ 
This semester-long course meets in Rockne 219 on 
7:30 p.m. starting on Jan. 28. There will be a demonstration on Tuesday, Jan. 26 in Rockne 219 at 6:30 p.m. Cost is $18 for the semester. You must register at RecSports. For more information, please con­tact HecSports at 1-6100. 
CROSS-COUNTRY SKI CLINICS -Put all this snow to good use! Pick one or more of the following clinics to attend.Jan. 23 at 4 p.m., Feb. 6 at 10 a.m.. or Feb. 13 at 2 
p.m. Come sp1rnd a Saturday on the snow covered Notre Dame Golf Course! Please reg­ister in advance at HocSporL'>. Cost L'> only $5. 
SClJBA -This certification class begins Sunday, .Jan. 24 and continues for seven Sundays from 3:30-7:30 p.m. Classes include classroom and pool sessions. 
DOWN HILL SKI TRIP -HecSports will be sponsoring a DownHill Ski Trip to Swiss Valley on Friday. Jan. 22. Cost is $19 for lift ticket and trans­port only. 
f 
... 
.. 
... 
page 18 The Observer• SPORTS 
¦ Fox SPoRrs...ALMOST 

A word of thanks to His Airness 
-
By TED FOX 
Spores Writer 
I still remember that day back in October of 1993. I was 14 and in the first half of my eighth grade year. Basketball was a big part of my life. Watching my favorite team, the Chicago Bulls, led by my favorite player, Michael Jordan, was a big part of this basketball life. 
And then it ended. 
Just like that, the man whose likeness covered every square inch of wall space in my room. the guy whose moves l tried to duplicate (with minimal suc­cess) on my driveway hoop, decided to retire wiLh three straight NBA titles and seven straight scoring titles in the bag. 
I was stunned. 
At school the next morning, people laughed and made light of the whole thing. They all knew how big of a fan I was and remembered how much pain the unsloppa-Bulls had inflicted on their favorite teams. To them, it was a big joke. 
I was still stunned. 
A year and a half later, my parents and I were driving to Florida for spring break. Now approaching the end of my freshman year, I paid tribute to the retired Jordan by wearing his number, 23, for my high school. He was still my favorite player, but I had no hopes of seeing him play basketball. 
But thenJ was stunned again. 
While driving along in Northern Florida, the news came across the radio. 
Michael Jordan had announced his return to the NBA with the simple statement: 'Tm back." 
Now I was ecstatic. 
The return wasn't a total fairy tale. The Bulls didn't win the NBA title that year. The man who had always been characterized by near-flawless performances seemed to be making more errors than in the past. But flashes of his bril­liance still lit up the faces of basketball fans everywhere. 
While we were on our trip, I saw him beat the Atlanta Hawks on a turnaround jump­shot from the top of the key as the clock expired. 
The next week one of my friends called to say Jordan was on a scoring spree against the Knicks at Madison Square Garden in the first half. I couldn't watch the game myself -we didn't have cable TV ­but I awoke the next morning 
Tue 

to hear he finished the game with 55 points, the highest sin­gle game total in the league for the whole season. 
This from a man who, two weeks earlier, wasn't even playing in the league. 
The Bulls as I used to know them were back, and the whole NBA took notice. 
So did my friends back home. 
For the next three years, Michael and the Bulls torment­ed the rest of the league as 
. they had in the past, oply this time a lot more VCRs rolled every time MJ took the floor because no one knew when he would be gone for good. Every game played was special. The inevitable exit came this week. This time, l wasn't stunned. Most people expected him to call it quits with the labor strike and the firing of Bulls head coach Phil Jackson. But that wasn't the reason I wasn't shocked. By coming back in 1995, Michael gave me and everyone else a chance to watch him play the game he made into an art form one last time. He gave every Bulls fan three last "In 
gaitist ballet. A barefoot spa_ce, range ofmotion 

Activity Room 2-Rolfs Sports 
Information Meeting: Sunday, January 17, 2:30pm t\c.:t1v1ty Room 2-Rolfs Spmls Rccrcat,on Center 
Register in Advance at RecSports-$35.00 Fee Sign-Ups begin Monday, January 18, 8:06am CLASSES BEGIN -SATURDAY, JANUARY 23 No Experience Necessary. Space is limited. 

your faces" to combat the slings of all our friends. He gave me time to tape his games so one day I can sit my kids down and not have to tell them about the greatest player of all time, but show them. Most of all he gave us three more years of unforgettable memories that 
will provide a lifetime of 
dreams. 
So, from one basketball play­er to another, thanks Michael. For everything. 

Monday, January 18, 1999 
¦ NBA 


Kerr nears deal with San Antonio 
Associated Press 

CHICAGO 
Three-point specialist and free agent St,we Kerr, a key mem­ber of three straight Ch.icago Bulls championship teams, is near a deal with the San Antonio Spurs, his agp,nt says. 
"We haven't agreed to anything," Mark Bartlestein said Sunday. "Nothing is done as of yet. We're close, but there are somr. things wn're trying to finalize. 
"The Spurs are a team we're interested in. We're working hard and somAthing could happen." 
Several teams have shown intnrest in Kerr. a 10-year veteran who is one orthe most proficient 3-point shooters in NBA histo­ry. 
"I wouldn't say the other teams were out of the loop,"Bartlestein said. "We're just seeing if we can l'inalize a deal with the Spurs." 

We offer awide array of workplace amenities including excellent salaries and benefits, 401 K, protit sharing, tuition reimbursement, fitness center and acasual dress environment. If unable to attend, please send your scanable resume to: 
Discover Financial Services, Inc. 
Human Resources, IT Recruiter 2500 Lake Cook Road • Riverwoods, IL 60015
i~I Fax: (847) 405-1388 

~  Visit our Web Site at:  
~  www.novusnet.com  
EOE M/F/DN  

'99 LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS TEAMS  
NIGHT  rnllon • Walsn famil~  
OLYMPICS  

Friday, January 29, 1999 • 7:00 PM -4:00 AM • Joyce Center &RSRC • 631-6100 All LNO Medals Were Donated by the Notre Dame Alumni Association All T-Shirts Were Donated by <£~ 

Monday, January 18, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 19 
¦ NFL 

'Comeback kid' leads Broncos to fifth AFC title 
A~soci,tted Press 
IJENVEH 

.John Elway's Mik I ligh sPndofl' Pnd,icl with anotlrnr trip to thn Sup1ir Bowl. an emotional victory la() and pl1\as l'rorn his foithl'ul fans for "Otw Mon' Y~ar." 
With T1irrnll Davis on Flwav·s sidt), tltn I >mwPr l'ans just might )WI tlwir wish. 
Tlrny got a fifth AFC drnmpi­onsh ip out of th1• !•:lway-lnd Brrnwos as Davis, tlw NFL Most Valuabln l'layl'r., ruslrnd lilr I(17 yards and a touchdown in a 2:1­10 vidory Sunday owr the mis­lak1•-pro1w N1iw York .l(•Ls. 
l•:lway also had a touchdown pas.~ in wlmt probably was his linal lionw ~anm -lw is nxp1H,t­1·cl Lo r(itirP al'L1•r tlw Sup<'r Bowl 011 Jan. ;i I in Miami. 
'·t 1·a11't tt>II you that yt>t." l•:lway said o/' a rntir1~nwnt an no ll!Jr PllW 11 l "Wt>· re j us l going to go bark and win llrn rwxl ont'. 1·111 jusl thrillPd to cl1\ath to lw going bac·k." 
Wh n11 Llwy gf'L Ihen\, Lhe Brnm:os. who PtHlnd a l :-l-ynar AH: slide in last y1•ar's title l,(lllllP, will rind tlw Atlanta Falrons. Fornwr coach Dan 
H11eves -who onc(~ foudnd with Elway and Denver cour.h Mike Shanahan -will b<' awaiting them. 
Tho way Elway cnlP.brntncl his vktorv surP looknd as if lw were biddi11g l'arew(~I! to the Milo I ligh Stadium fans, who have loved him throughout a 1{I-year car1wr. 
The :~8-year-old quarLPrback, ran a vidory lap, holdingup the AFC drnrnpionship trophy to thn f'ans, who wnrc also chanting "Ono Mon~ Year." 
If Elway rrnPds some convinc­ing. having Davis b1\hind him might do tlw trick. 
Davis was LhP main weapon ror Denver. which owrcame 40 minutes ol' inPptitude with the kind or ef1iciency and spark LhaL idnntil'ios thn clr1fnnding NF!. champions. 
''Tlw team camn Lngllthor and made up our minds Lo do tlw things wc'e bl'cn doing all yr.ar." suid Davis. thn fourth player tn rush for 2,000 yards in a soason wh@ lw gained 2.008 in l998. 
The Broncos' winnlng method hardly was in keeping with their dominant, high-scoring image. Tlmy botrlrnd Lhcir way to a 10-0 
Happy 


Birthday 






,.,,_,. J 
love, 


The Hammondtree fam and Your Roman fiirh 
dnficit and seemed to forget about Davis, their only effective offensive performer early on. 
But they didn't forget they are champions. 
•·we had Lhc strength and the ability lo come back," Shannon Sharpe said. "We knew that." 
On thr. first play following Curtis Martin·s 1-vard TD run after Blake Spem:e blocked a punt. Elway found Ed McCaffrey wide open for 47 yards. That got the usually loud crowd back into the ~anrn and, two plays lat,1r, it was fullback Howard Griffith bulling his way in on an 11-yard rt'lciiption. 
Jason Elam, who would make Held goals of' 44 and 48 ya.rds in the third quarlor to give Dcnvr.r the lead, then blooped a kickoff into a 2:i mph wind that carried just past the second wave of JcL'i. The ball ricochnlnd back toward Denver territory and was grabb11d by Keith Burns. 
By t.lrnn, Nfiw York was waver­ing. . 
"It was the combination of turning Lh,, hall over thr<le times across midfield which limited our scoring opportunities," said Bill Parcnlls, who added he will be back as coach next season. "Then we had special tr.ams mis­takes as well."' 
The .fots won their last seven gamr,s with a big-play a.twck and stingy defonsn, but they had nei­ther in the second half. They turned the ball over six times in the game. 
Davis broke it open with a 31­ya rd TD run just 18 seconds from the ,md ol' the Broncos' 20­point third quarter. 
Arter Darrien Gordon's :36­yard punt runback, Davis sped through n. gaping, hole int() the end zcinn. r.nding New York's remarkable run from 1-15 two years ago to a step from its first Supnr Bowl since 1969. 
In winning their 19th straight at home. the Broncos set up a 


GET MONEY FROM YOUR UNCLE INSTEAD. 
Your Uncle Sam. Every fees. They even pay a flat rate year Army ROTC awards for textbooks and supplies. scholarships to hundreds of You can also receive an allow-talented students. If you anceofupto$1500eachschool 
qualify, these merit-based  ~1:ADERSH11>  year the scholarship is in  
scholarships can help you  effect.  Find out today if  
paytuitionandeducational  ....,,..~,  you qualify.  

ARMY ROTC 
THE SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE 
For details, visit Room 217 Pasqueri1la Center or call 
631-6265 


.. 
-
,,. 
... 


page 20 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, January 18, 1999 
Abortion, euthanasia and capital 
punishment demean the lives of 
countless individuals in our society. Gather with us in Eucharistic 
Adoration to pray: for an end 
... 
to the culture of death. 


,~Qr 

"I make a holy hour ealfi day in the presence 
of Jesus in the Blessed Sacrament. All my 
sisters of the Missionaries of Charity make a daily 
holy hour as well, because we find that through
--«:·. 
our daily holy hour oyr lovefor Jesus becomes 
more intimate, our ldvefor each other more 
understanding, and oftr love'for the poor more 
compassionate... " :::·: 
-Mother Teresa 

.. 

-Sponsored by Notre Dame Right to Life AMDG • IMI 

Jesus is here with us in the Eucharist to give us answers-answers 
that will lead us to truth, happiness and peace. In this culture of death, it is easy for people to become weary and indifferent to God and His gift of life. People often fall short of their obligation to care for and nurture the spiritual and physical lives of themselves and oth­ers. Eucharistic Adoration gives a person the opportunity to nurture 
his own spiritual life, as well as the spiritual lives of others 
( through prayer for them.) Prayer also protects the physical 
lives of those endangered by abortion, euthanasia and 
other forms of violence. It is only through the grace which 
comes from prayer that others' hearts can be changed from seeking death to loving life: Christ gives us the strength to press on in our battle for life. In order to be Christ-like in our service to preserve life, we must be filled with His life through prayer. 
We ask you to join us in prayer for life at Eucharistic Adoration . 
What is Eucharistic Adoration? 
God is present to us in many ways in our world, but He is especially present to us in the Eucharist. As Roman Catholics, we believe that Jesus Christ, who lived 2000 years ago, is truly present in the Eucharist. In Eucharistic Adoration, the Host is placed in a monstrance, in order for us to be able to come and pray. Jesus is always hidden in the tabernacle, but in adoration He is exposed so that we can come and kneel before Him, face to face, and speak with God. When Jesus is exposed like this, He can never be left alone. Thus, people sign up to be responsible to come and pray with Him for a certain amount of time ( usually 1/ 2-1 hour) every week. 
Why should I go? 
If Jesus were to come to the JACC, wouldn't you come and stand in line for hours just to talk to Him for a minute? Even if you weren't Christian, wouldn't you be at least interested in this God so many people talk about? Well, Jesus is truly present here on campus-in the Eucharist. IN ADORATION YOU HAVE THE OPPORTUNI1Y TO GO AND SPEAK WITH GOD FACE TO FACE. You can confide in Him, plead with Him, question Him. And if you sit quietly enough, He will inspire you with answers. 
What do I do when I am there? 
When you enter the chapel, you should genuflect as a sign of reverence to Jesus. It is 
common practice during Adoration to genuflect on two knees, instead of just one 
(like you do whenever you enter a chapel.) You can stand, sit, or kneel-whatever 
helps you pray. And then you pray. There are many ways to pray: you can do spiritual 
reading; you can pray a rosary; you can sit in silence; you can even just talk to Jesus­
like you would to a friend. The most important thing is that you love Him and allow 
Him to love and strengthen you. 
What does the Church think? 
"Exposition of the Blessed Sacrament, whether in a pyx or a monstrance, is a recognition of the wondrous Presence of Christ (n the sacrament and stimulates us to unite ourselves to Him in a spiritual communion. It is, accordingly, eminently in harmony with the worship which we owe Him in spirit and truth ... " 
-Post-Conciliar (Vatican II) Document, S.C.D.W. 
EUCHARISTIC ADORATION ON CAMPUS: 

FRIDAY: Blessed Mother Chapel in the Basilica: 12:00pm (following 11:30am Mass) -5:00pm with a Rosary beginning at 4:15pm. (Ends with Benediction at 4:45pm) 
MONDAY beginning at 11 :30pm (following 11 :OOpm Mass) through TUESDAY at 10:00pm (Ending with Benediction at 9:45-10:00pm) In Fisher Hall Chapel. 
-. 
• iv1onday, January I 8, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 21 
¦ NFL 
Andersen's heroics end Minnesota's season, 30-27 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS 

For nenrly 42 minutes Sunday, tlrn Atlanta Falcons did thc unexper.ted: They shut down tht1 Minnesota Vikings. 
Hanclv Moss, Hand all Cunnin.gham, Cris Carter, Hubert Smith & Co. managed only sev(~n points after halftime -remarkable for an ol'f'emrn that scored an NFL-rocord 556 points during the regular sea­son. 
"!\t half'linrn, we knew we 
could play with them," line­backer .JP.ssin Tugglfl said after the Falcons advanced to the Super Bowl for Urn first time 
'LI 'Hl 27 t' . l 
Interested In 0Ing esearc a a World-class Research Institute? 
Undergraduate Summer Internships 
The Environmental Research Institute, a joint activity of Notre Dame & Argonne National Laboratory (ANL), in collaboration with the Center for Environmental Science and Technology, will award up to two Summer 1999 internships at ANL in Argonne, IL with a follow-up campus research appointment in the Fall. S.tipend, room & board are provided for the 10-week 
program. 
-

Student applicants should have research interests in an environmental/y-refated discipline (any field of study) concerned with or likely to contribute t.o the understanding, assessment, or improvement of the environment. Applicants must be US citizens or permanent residents, enrolled at Notre Dame, have completed their Junior Year by May 1999, and be registered to return in the Fall of 1999. 
For more details, contact the Center for Environmental Science and Technology: 152A Fitzpatrick. Hall, 631-8376. Applicants will be required to complete an application. 
Deadline is February 19, 1999 
over the Vikings. "Arter the first half, we said, 'OK guys, they throw their best shot at us and \ve're only down by six (20­
14)."' 

"Nobody believed in us," end Lester Archambeau added. "Everybody was saying we're second-rate. I don't know what they were thinking." 
The Vikings scored on their first four possession against the Falcons, whn fell behind 20-7 when Carv Anderson kkked a 35-yard rield goal late in the lirst half. 
Minnesota, showing no respect for a del'Pnse that ranked fourth in the NFL and went for more points. That was 
h . . t
• 
Cunningham dropped back to pass, but defensive end Chuck Smith batted the ball out of his hand and Travis Hall recov­Ned. On the next play. Chris 
ChandlH  threw  a  14-yard  
touchdown pass  tu  Terancc  
Mathis.  

"A lot of guys stepped up and made some plays," Tuggle said. "That's how it's been all vear long, Not just me or any either individual. It's been a different guy each and every week mak­ing big plays." 
"We've been headhunters. We've been running to the foot­ball, creating havoc all year long. We didn't fall apart. We stayed together and went out there and executed and won the game," 
In the second half, Atlanta cornerbacks Hay Buchanan and Michael Booker got more physi­cal against Moss, who set an NFL rookie record with 1 7 touchdown receptions. They jammed the 6-foot-4 receiver at the line, preventing him l'rom getting loose l'or those long catches that were the trade­mark of his spectacular season. 
Moss had five receptions for 71 yards in the first two quar­ters. lie managed only one catch for 4 yards the rest of' the way. 
"We played more aggressivr­ly," said Booker, a second-year player who was starting because of an injury to Honnie 

Saint M:ary's College Notre Dam.e 
26TH ANNUAL 
LONDON SUMMER 
PROGRAM 
MAY 19TH -JUNE 18TH, 1999 
~~~ 

ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING 6:30-8:30 p.m., Tuesday, January 19 Carroll Auditorium, Saint Mary's College 
Courses offered in History, Education, Biology, Philosophy and International Business. 
For further information contact: 
Professor Tom 1•arisi

Professor David Stefancic 37 Madeleva Hall, Room 152
54 Madeleva Hall, Room 347 Saint Mary's College
Saint Mary's College Notre Dame, Indiana 46556
Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 284-4529 
(2 l 9) 284-4462 tparisi@saintmarys.edu
dstefanc(a)saintmarys.edu 

Fax: London Summer Program (219) 284-4716 
Bradford. "It was very• impor­tant for me to get my hands on Moss. I thought I did a fine job gettingmy hands on him so he was not able to r.atch that deep ball like he had been doing. I felt if I could do that, we could win the game.'' 
Cunningham praised the Falcons secondary for mixing its coverages after halftime, taking Moss totally out of the game and forcing Minnesota to look to lesser-known rccclvers such as Andrew Glover, Matthew Hatchette and Greg DeLong. 
"They did an excellent job," said Cunningham, who was 29­
of-48 for 266 yards. "Their scheme was sound and good. We were able to move the ball and put 27 points on the board, but in the end they were the ones who won the game." 
Added Moss, "The thing I'm disappointed about right now is the lead we had and with the explosive offense we have, we couldn't make it happen." 
The Atlanta defense .came up with one huge play after anoth­er, allowing only a 5-yard 

touchdown pass from Cunningham to IIatchette early in the fourth quarter. 
Even when the Vikings won tlrn coin toss to begin ovBrtime, the Falcons didn't waver. They stopped Minnesota. on tw() dri­ves, the most heart-stopping moment coming when Cunningham went deep for Moss but safety Eugene Hobinson got the bnst of a jump ball and knocked the pass away. 
"I think it was just a little bit more desire, morn than any­thing," linebacker.CorneIi us Bennett said. "This is a special football team, special guys doing special things when it counts." 
The Falcons offense, which put the defnnse in bad position with two f'irst-half fumbles, 
-
appreciated thP-effort on the other side of the line. 
"They have a lot of pride other thern," center l{obbie Tobeck said. "I knew they wore going to stnp up and make plays whnn limy neednd to make plays." 

AFP Atlanta placekicker Morton Andersen crushed the Minnesota Vikings' Super Bowl hopes with his last minute field goal. 
... 


Join the Notre Dame Junior Achievement ! 
Sign Up to Teach Children in South Bend Elementary Schools 
You can decide When and Where You Wantto Volunteer-Tim.es are Flexible 
Brief Organizational Meeting 
7:30 pm *Tuesday,January 19th Sorin Room in LaFortune 
Call Kim Smith @ 4~2978 with questions or if ou are unable to attend the mmetin . 
WANT TO MAKE A DIFFERENCE IN THE LIFE OF A CHILD THfS SUMMER? 
COME FOR A JOB INTERVIEW TO WORK AT: 
C_.SWIINEY 
A RESIDENTIAL SPORTS CAMP IN NORTH TEXAS FOR CHILDREN WITH DIABETES 

INTERVIEWS FRIDAY. JANUARY 22nd FROM ,;ooAM to 5:00 PM IN THE LaFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
Camp Sweeney is an equal opportunif> empk,yer 

Spring Break Seminars 
March 7-13, 1999 ExperimentaV Sevice Learning 
Center for Social Concerns 

Undergrads: 
DON'T MlSS THIS OPPORTUNfTY! 
BIOSPHERE 2 : SEMESTER 'ABROAD' 
Slots still available for FALL 1999 AND SPRING 2000 
... 
Open to all majors Interested students should pick up an application or calf: 
152A FITZPATRICK HALL, x1-8376 or check this website http://www.bio2.edu 
APPALACHIA SEMINAR 
-Work and learn at one of 15 sites in the Appalachian region 

-An ND tradition of service-learning ~ ,/',,. L'ARCHE COMMUNITY SEMINAR ~ ~ L -Live for a week in community with persons with~n 
dissabilities --~ -Read the work of Jean Vanier 
MIGRANT EXPERIENCES.SEMINAR 
-}Vork in the fields with migrant workers -Assist agencies that serve migrants -Live with migrant families 
WASHINGTON SEMINAR 
Theme: Violence and Nonviolence in American Life -Direct contact with political, agency, and Church leaders in 
'
1 

Washington, D.C . CIVIL & ffiJMAN RIGHTS SEMINAR -Travel to key civil rights sites in the South (e.g., the King Center, the Nat. Civil Rights Inst.) -Learn from leaders who were instrumental in civil rights legisla tion and development -A new and unique opportunity. 
page 22 
Hockey 
continued from page 24 

killing unit, which entered the weekend sporling the lo\\est efficiency in the CCI-IA. With three of lhe team's best penalty killers out of the lineup, head coach Dave Poulin was forced to use more players than usual Lo kill penalties. 
"This was certainly the most guys I've used killing penallies Lh is year, because Simon is certainly onP. of' our lop penalty killers." Poulin sa.id. "13ut if I need other guys, it will be up-tempo and short shifts." 
On the night thn Irish killed off all five UAF power plays by playing with a morr aggres­sive style. For tho weekend, the unit was t>ight for eight, which represt•nted the most satisfying part of thr series swePp 
"That's what WP kllyed on all Wilek because that's what v.n nncded," sophomore left wing Chad Chipchase said. "We knrw coming into tho weekend we had the worst penalty killing in the conference." 
Sophomore l!'!'t wing Dan Carlson also stressed the importance of the penalty killers in terms of the team's overall success.
-
"We've worked a lot hardrr at lpenalty­killingl, so we·re getting better at it." said Carlson. "We have to get better at it if we want to do well this vear." In Saturday's game. the Irish welcomed back Ben Simon, but were forced to say good­bye to senior Aniket Dhadphale, who was ejected six-and-a-half minutes into the game for checking from behind. While the penalty was out of character for Dhadphale, it cer­tainly drew the attention of the head coach. 
The Observer. SPORTS 
"It was a bit of retaliation on his part because he was hit from behind earlier," Poulin said. "It was a moment of frustration, but you just don't hit a guy from behind." 
In a strange turn of events, however, the Na.nooks continued their sloppy and undisci­plined play by taking back-to-back penalties to actually put Notre name on the power play during Dhadphale's five minute major. With a four-on-three skating advantage, Ben Simon pounred on a rebound of Joe Dusbabek's shot to give the Irish a l-0 lead. 
Less than a minute and a half later, with th~ Irish now down a man once again. Brett llenning capitalized on yet another sloppy pass up the middle by the UAF defense. Following the steal. flenning came in with team captain Brian Urick twii-on-one. llenning smoothly slid a backhand pass to Urick. which Urick converted into the first shorth,tnded goal of his illustrious career, going top shelf on UAF goaltrmder Ian Perkins. 
Thr, team's high-paced gamr continurd, with sophomore Chad Chipchasc emerging as the offensive star in the second period by scoring twirn. On both goals, Chipchasc capi­talized on great passes from teammates, one from Ben Simon and one from Dan Carlson. 
A storyline that continues to emerge this season is the team's success and confidence on home ice, as the series sweep bolstered thedr home record to 8-0-1 of). the year. Clearly the turnaround has much to do with coaching, as junior .Joe Dusbabek will attest. 
''If you take care of your home ice and win half of your games on the road, you're going 

to be in great shape," Dusbabek said. "Coach ~-----------------------__J [Poulin] has been telling us that ever since he's been here." 
The Observer/Joe Stark Ben Simon_ (8) return~d Saturday after a one-game suspension and led the team to their second victory over Alaska-Fairbanks. 

All seminars offer one academic credit (various departments) 


CENTER FOR
Applications Available Now at the CSC 

SOCIAL
Applications Due: Jan. 28, 1999 

CONCERNS 
Also: Deadline extended for the Mexico Seminar 



Monday, January I 8, 1999 The Observer• TODAY page 23 
LOOKING THROUGH THE WJZARD OF ND DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
FOXTROT BILL AMEND 
OH, Sffo<>T. MY

HA.' I GuESS HoT (Ho(oLA'ft THERE'S oNE Fli:oZE AGA1N. PERI< To Mot'l'S / k:EEPtlll6 1HE l"'llJ 
THER!vroSTAT \_ ' So LOW. <~ 

DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS 
1-.::::===============::7 E ,---:=====================----, 
I  U5ED COMPANY  ~  A.PPARE.NTL"<  MY LOW  ~  
RESOURCE':) TO BUILD M'Y OWN INTERNET COl"\\'I\N'\'  ® ~i t;  ;roe 5A.il5fA.C.1ION BFI-.ED D!SLOY~LT'< 1 Wl--llC\1  { ~Ji  5At;OTA.G£ CA.NT !:>E. FAR r,...wA.Y.  

CROSSWORD  
ACROSS  31 JF.K's  se Inventive  
1 Fearless 4 Nicholas I or II  predecessor 34 "Cheesy" Italian city  thought 59 "Remember the  
9 Sears rival  35 Germany's~. ­ 60 ·  --mutual  
14 The Buckeye  Valley  (form of betting)  
State  36 Not written  61 Shooting  
15Queen of Olympus  37 Storyteller's embellishment  matches? s2 Razor sharpener  
161960's enemy  40 Win's opposite  63 Pitcher  
capital 17 "­Like It Hot"  41 SIiiy syllables 42 Hopping mad  64 Reply to "Are you hurt?"  
18 Completely bollix  43 "Aye. aye!" 44Giveup  DOWN  
19 Positive pole 20 "Bleak House" writer 2aC.I.A. predecessor 24 Lend a hand 25 Stick on  45 Gets around 46 Halloween greeting 47151 ona monument 48 Young ones 56 Use, as a chaise  1 49-Down variety 2Cryof anticipation 3 Peru's capital 4 Not the retiring type s Beat hard  
29 More than once  longue  6 Children's Dr.  
around the track  57 Author Haley  7 Mojave•like  
8 Punjabi princess  
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  9 Military uniform 10 Like ahorse or  Puzzle by Elizabeth C. Gorski  
LOBSTER AVOCADO P E N A T E  FLACCID ROULADE T E S  lion 11 Soon, to a poet 12 Serling and Stewart 13 Gift from Monica to Bill 21 Nearby 22 Bay of Naples isle  29 Wood-shaping tool 30 Sounds of delight 31 Great fear 32 "The Divine Comedy" poet 33Nobody­business 35 Breeder  45 Magical dnnk 46 Stomach soother 47 Dear, in Dijon 48 Delta deposit 49 Fall fruit so Stare  s1 Cat's scratcher 52 Green fruit 53 Mild cheese 54 In legend, he fiddled in a fire 55 Neighbor of Alta. 56--Vegas  

t-:-1-:-:-t::-::'t'::-r.:."I 25 With suitability 

~! G?Jmbo
---~~:--1 ~~ 

~e'::G3 :;~!!iiY Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
ingredient

locale are available by touch-tone phone: 
38 Classic theater 

C R L E 27 Rapunzel 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
H A V  feature  39 Kind of duty  
A G E N D  ---+-+-+--+-~-+--i 28 Rock concert  44 like arcade  
M E D I A  necessities  games  
The Observer  

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name _______________________ Address ____________________ City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
MONUA"\', JANUAHY 18, 19')9 

CELERRITIES BORN ON nus problt•m, 000 DAY: Cary Grant, Kevin Costner, VIR(;Q (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): E.pcctMark Messier; Danny Kaye, Christian fireworks on the homl'.' front if you
F,ttipaldi haven't been completely honest with 

Happy Birthday: Your carefree your mate. Some family members 
approach to life will attract unusual will be unpn>dictabil'. Listen lo th<'ir 
people. You can expand your circle of problems and try to resolve matt<'rs 
friends and try your hand at a host of 000 

entertaining activities. Follow your LIRRA (Sept. 23-Ort. 22): Prob­
desires, and you'll be sure 10 f'njoy lems with gas, oil or water in your 
what the year ahead has to offer You home an• likely. You must use caution must learn to go with tht> flow and if you plan to work with el<'ctrical take things as they come. The more 
tools. Avoid abusive treatment by
adaptable you become, the bett,•r the ste,mng ckar of those looking for ,,n 
chance that you'll find sucet!ss ,,Jong argument. 00000 

the way. Your numbers: 2, 12, 22, 27, SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Your 
40,46 romantic attractions may be one­

ARIES (March 21-April 19): Don't sided. Try not tu be too forceful wh,•n 
hold a grudge because of joint finan­dealing with oth,,rs. Do not over­
cial ventures lhat just didn't pan nut. indulge or spend too much. Take care 
Yuu can stabiliz<, your perronal life if 

ot any mmur health problems quickly. you talk to your mate about the prob­00 lems that exist. 0000 
SAGfITARIUS (Nov. 22-Der. 21):
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You You will have to watch your p's and will be praLsed 1f you have been pur­q's today. II will be ever so easy to suing your goals wholeheartedly. 1ry up:iet your lowr. Confrontations will 
not to get annoyed with your mate. end up in \utbursts of tempPr. R,• Problems due to misunderstandings careful as misunderstandings an> like­are bkely. Don't ove~act. 00 ly 0000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): can attract a new mate with your Money-making ventures will pay off innate ability to charm with intelli­ii y0u follow the proper channels. gence and humor. Don't hold back; let You can get help from prominent
others know exactly what you trunk. ind1v1duals ii you present your int,•n· 
Your ideas are sound, and you will be tion.s properly. Favors will be granh.'d. able to get backing from someone 000 who bdieves in you. 00000 AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18); 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Visit . Self-improvemt!nl prujects will bt• friends who share the same interesls. successful. It is time to rcvamp yourChanges in your home will delight image. Go through your closet and the· whole family. Get your personal see what you can get rid of. A shop·things m order. Get rid of things that ping spree will help round out your are no longer of use. 000 wardrobe. 000 LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your PISCES ffrb. 19-March 20): Don't domestic scene may be a little uneasy. get too sentimental about the prob­You need to talk things over with lems you're experiencing with dnse 
your mate or confide in a close fril!nds You arc overrea~ling. Ynu can friend who will give you insight and tum things around if you're willing to good advice. Jealousy wilf cause compromise. 000 
·¦ OF INTEREST
~-'. ,. ~ 

Rodeo club meeting at 7 p.m, in Montgomery Theater.in LaFortuno today. . 
Summer Internship Pair will he sponsored by Career & Placement Services on Thursday from 1-4:30 p.m, in the Sports Heritage Hall on the second level of tho Joyce Center. Those interested should bring their resume•. Many companies will i.utervies interested can• didat~s the following day. 
The sports department is currently taking applications for the position of Production Assistants. Call 1~4:543 for more information. 
The Observer 
P.O. BoxQ Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Annual subscriptions are available tor the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 



¦ Tyson rallies to ¦ Atlanta Falcons · defeat Botha but has 
advance with overtime yet to win over the field goal to first Super fans. Bowl appearance. 

PORTS 
p.17 p.21 
BSERVER 

¦ HocKEV 
Irish climb to third in CCHA with weekend victories 
-
-
... 
,.I. 

The Observer/Jeff Hsu 

Team captain Brian Urick scored his first shorthanded goal in Saturday's win over Alaska-Fairbanks. 
¦ WOMEN'S BASKETBALL
¦ WOMEN'S CREW 
By TED BASSANI usually ccnt11rs the team's Sports Writer third line. Moving from a 
The eighth-ranklld Notre Damr hockey team managed to remain unbeaten on home ic1~ with a convincing two-game sweep of Alaska-Fairbanks over the weekend, which vault­ed them back into third place in the CCIIA standings, one point ahead of both Ferris State and Ohio State. 
In the series, Notre Dame continued the trend from last year's season series by out­shooting the Nanooks 78-44 en route to two blowout wins. The Irish scored two goals in each of the six periods, giving them wins by a score of 6-2 and 6-1. 
Late Friday afternoon, Notre Dame received word from the CCIIA office that junior center Ben Simon was to be suspend­ed for one game following a stick foul which occurred in a game on November 21 against Michigan. Entering the week­end, Simon was the team's leading scorer on the season. The Irish were also missing Tyson Fraser and Ryan Clark on defense. Fraser's injury is minor, while Clark will miss the remainder of the season. 
Filling in for Ben Simon on Notre Dame's top line would be freshman Brett Henning, who chnrking line to a line with Brian Urick and Dan Carlson was a cbal!Pnge Henning was ready and eager to take on. 

"I practiced all wflek with tlw line, and I felt good," Henning said. "They're great players; I just tried to work with them and play up to their potential." 
Henning filled in wel I for Simon, registering an assist as well as a power play goal. 
On Friday night. the Nanooks jumped out to a quick lead when Dwayne Zingor·s shot from the slot was deflected home by sophomore winger Pat llallett. After that point. however, Notre Dame seemed to find their legs with great team speed through the n11u­tral zo11e. 
Midway through the first period. Notre Dame tied the score on the power play as Aniket Dhadphale scored one of his signature goals, camping out in front of the net to bang home a rebound. Dhadphale would later score on a four-on­four situation near the end of the second period, a goal which seemingly put the game out of' reach at 4-1. 
The story of the night, how­ever, was the team's penalty-
see HOCKEY/ page 22 
Luecke named coach 

S~cial to The Obsener 
South Bend native Kevin Luecke has been named assistant women's rowing coach at the University of Notre Dame. He joins Kerry O'Keefe, a.former assistant at Ohio State and Yale, on head coach Martin Stone's sta!T. 
Rowing,. a longtime club sport at the University; begarivarsity competition this faH as Notre Dan:rn''s 26th varsitysport and l~tp.offering for female student~ athletes. 
Luecke, a 1998 graduate of Northwestern Unlverslty with 11. B.A. in -political sci• ence and American history, was a four-year member of the srhool's crew team. For four yeal;S, he was a me'.iri~ ber of the lightweight eight and four boats and compet­ed in such events as the Midwest Sprints Regatta, th.e Merrill Lynch/Big Ten Regatta and the head of the Charles Regatta. As the 
see-CREW/ page 15 

Ninth-ranked Irish dismiss Panthers 
By BRIAN KESSLER 
Assistant $ports Editor 
After being limited to just four minutes of play in the first half of Saturday's Big East contest with Pittsburgh, sophomore center Ruth Riley stayed out of foul trouble and scored 15 points in the second half as ninth-ranked Notre Dame (13-2) rolled to victory, 81-72. 
"It was just frustrating to sit there and not be able to do anything about it," said Hiley who finished with 18 points and eight rebounds. 
With Hiley on the bench, Pittsburgh center Nickeia Morris con­trolled the first half, scoring 14 points on 6-of-9 shooting. Morris also pulled down nine rebounds and helped her team to a 29-23 lead with just under six minutes remaining in the first 
"Morris had a great first half," said Notre Dame head coach Muffet McGraw, who's team closed the half on a 7-1 run and clung to a 31-30 halftime lead, "That's how they stayed in the game. She was outstanding." 
"I kept wishing I could go out there and give it a shot and stop )ler.'' said Riley. 
She would get he1' wish. 
Riley's defense, which held Morris to just six points and one · board in the second half, and Sheila McMillen's scoring were the perfect combination to lift the Irish to their fifth conference victo­ry. McMillen scored 14 in the second half and finished with a game-high 21 points. The senior captain was 4-of-7 from three­point land and drained 7-of-8 free throws. The Irish connected on 20 of their 24 shots from the charity stripe. 
Danielle Green added 15 points, while Niele Ivev finished with 16 · points, six assists and 5 rebounds. Notre Dam·e out-rebounded Pittsburgh 44-33 on the afternoon. 
The loss drops Pittsburgh to 7 -8 on the season and just 2-5 in the Big East. ­'Tm so proud of my girls," Pitt coach Traci Waites said. "I think they played the ninth-ranked team well enough to win. But when 
you pfay a ranked team. that comes with something extra. Notre Dame was able to pull away ever-y time we thought we wern com­ing back." 
Monique Toney had 15 poinl"l for the Panthers. while LaTonya 

The Observer/Jeff Hsu 
Niele Ivey contributed 16 points along with six assists and five rebounds in Notre Dame's victory over Pittsburgh, 
Burton finished with a doublP.-double (10 points, 10 assists). Kortni Webb addrd 11 points. 
Next up for the Irish is a road game with Seton llall on Wednesday. McGraw's squad will be looking !'or tlwir fifth-straight conference win. · 
ar Seton Hall at Northern Michigan 

,. 
Wednesday, 7:30 p.m. Friday, 7 p.m.
SPORTS 

Women's Swimming at Michigan
ATA 

vs. Seton Hal! Men's Swimming January 30, 4 p.m. Tuesday, 7:30 p.m. at Western Omario 
GLANCE 
Saturday 





