
Are you ready for some football? 
Fall into the new season 
HiMls Stanford and Keenan head ofj'.','unday 
Friday
Scene previews the new Fall television line-up, 
afternoon. Sporls takes a Loqk at 
including shows like Felicity, Friends and ER. 
each team's chance8. 
page 12-13 
SEPTEMBER 24, 
page 22 
1999 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXX:111 NO. 23 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Patents 'mark' University image 

KEVIN OALUMffhe Observer photo illustration University logos are strictly monitored by the General Counsel. The Counsel regulates use of Notre Dame's signature logos in merchandising purposes, such as the hats pictured above. 
University grants use ofthe Notre Dame logo through 
selective process 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE Saint Mary's Editor 
Notre Dame's attempt to preserve its image sends a message to potential offenders: Hands off. 
Regulating legal use of its logos doesn't just make the University look good; it also protects its exclu­sive rights to Notre Dame images. 
The University has about two dozen trade­mark rights on symbols, including the interlocking 'ND,' the leprechaun mas­cot, the University seal. 
Protect-ing trademarks is a responsibility that must be enforced vigor­ously, said Bill Hoye, assistant vice president' for the General Counsel's office. 
"If the trademarks are not vigorously enforced, they can slip into the pub­lic domain and we can Jose our rights to them," Hoye said. 
Notre Dame trademarks are most widely used on apparel, which pushes the University to enforce trademark rights in national and international settings. 
"It's a global business, especially in app-arel," Hoye said. "We are taking giant steps to register these trademarks around the world." 
Watchdogs 

Walt Disney and Coca­Cola are famous for enforcing their trademark rights. and Notre Dame doesn't want to be differ­ent, Hoye said. 
Notre Dame investigates any suspicious use of trademarked images. The University receives direct reports to the General Counsel and reports from other universities and organizations looking out for their own rights. 
While the University will not disclose the revenue generated from trade­marks, said Carol Kaescbier, vice president of the General Counsel's office. 
Kaesebier said money earned from trademarks is put toward financial aid. 
One reason Notre Dame enforces trademarks is to prevent outside compa­nies from making a profit with an unauthorized Notre Dame image. 
"There is value f'or pirates who infringe the marks," lloye said. "Also, when you have companies like adidas and Champion who pay royalties to use the trademarks and hear that there arc other com­p an ie s doing the same thing without paying that royalty, they are upset." 
Another motivation is keeping the University's 
see PATENTS/page 4 

Martial arts injury claims officer's life 
By TIM LOGAN 
New> hli,,,, 
South B(ind Polic1• Cpl. Randy Moon• dil'd WBd1wsday, losinK his slrugglt• Lo n•cov,,r l'ro111 a brokt!n neck sulT1·rt'.d in an acddnnl ScpL. (i. 
Moor1• dind at. Saini. .lmwph's Hegio11al :\fodical Cn11Lt'.r, wlwre Im had IJn,•n sinl'<' !'ailing whil(i prarti1·itlg f'lips in :1 l\fr.;lrnwaka martial iHls studio. l It> was :-n. 
Tl11~ ol'l'inir is survivPd by Lwo daugliti·rs. agns (, and K, and his wifo. 1\111v, who is !'our months 
prngrrn11!. Till' .inidnnl l1cqip1•11t'd whil(i Moor,•, ;i hrnwn lwll with four 
tial arts t.wo w,wks ugo. lie was olT duly whnn the accident occu1Ted. 
Tim ol'f'icnr was paralyzed from tlw mid-clrnsl down and had trou­
bln breathing .in l"ll<'.ent days. He 
was on a v1mtilalor in tlrn hospi­tal's Intensive Carn Unit. but was able\ to talk with visitors. including his wifo, family and many police oiTinm;. 
Doctors pPrfornwd a two-hour oporation on Moore in order to r1diovn pressurP 011 his spinal t:or<l. I In had also rl't:(~ntly bogun taking t.hn exp(\l'inwntal drug, Syg<111, to (1asc tlw paralysis. 
Moore was a 1nombor of' tho Bicycln Patrol and tho Special VV1•apo11s and Ta('.lics Tnam 
had served with the St. Joseph County Police Department for approximately two years before that. 
"He was an outstanding police offic<~r." said Capt. Gary Horvath. police department spokesman. "He knew what he had to do and went out and did it." 
Visitation will be from 2 p.m. to 8 p.111. Sunday at Kaniewski Funeral llome, 3545 N. Bendix IJrivo in South Bond. 
The funeral will be 11 a.m. Monday at First Presbyterian Church, 333 West Colfax Avenue in South Bernd. 
The burial location has not yet been decided. Donations can be mado to the 


years 1•,1wric11c1'.. !'ell on liis ht'.ad (SWAT) ol' Llw Sout.h lknd Police. Moore ramily through any First The flag outside the South Bend Police Department or slwuldt•r whil«• prarli1·i11g 111ar-!le joi,wd tlin !'ore<• in 1992, and Source Bank in the area. flies at half-staff, honoring Randy Moore. 
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Friday, September 24, 1999 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Quiz Me 
Earlier this week, I conceived an idea for today's Inside Column. Actually, a couple of my friends th()ught of it and had asked me to post it up in here. Now this may seem a bit silly, 
C.R. "Teo"
and it is silly. but please 
Teodoro
take this seriously, OK? 
The following is a Cosmo-style quiz that was designed by three beauti­
Illustrations 
ful ladies to determine if 
editor 
you are the right kind of guy whom they would like to go out with. Please keep in mind that this _test is designed by my female friends, not me. Please check off all the traits that apply to you and add up the total points for each trait to find your final score. The result of your score is displayed below. 
. 
Has a great sense of humor (3 pts) 

. 
Low-key and flflxibl!> (3 pts) 

. 
Devoir,d ( 3 ptsl 

. 
Kind-hearted (:1 pts) 

. 
Clean (2 pts) 

. 
Not vain (2 pts) 

. 
No tragic flaws whatsoever, such as anything that could abruptly end a relationship (3 pts) 

. 
Must 11ut care loo much about money/ be generous (2 pts) 

. 
Spontaneous and creative (2 pts} 

. 
No Mono-brow (1 pt) 

. 
No back hair (2 pts) 

. 
Nice shoulders (2 pts) 

. 
Must have a relatively bigger waist than nm (2 pts) 

. 
Tallei· lhan me (2 pts) 

. 
Doesn't get gross food at the dining halls {1 pt) 

. 
No domers / doesn't wear too much ND clothing ( 2 pts) 

. 
Able to· start a conversation/ must have something to report on the phone (2 pts) 

. 
No business majors/ sellouts (2 pts) 

. 
Would not "hook up" on the side (3 pts) 

. 
Willing to like my friends / my friends 


must love you (3 pts) 
. 
Loves animals (2 pts) 

. 
Willing to accompany me anywhere (1 pt) 

. 
Domesticated (2 pts) 

. 
Intelligent (3 pts) 

. 
Willing to lishrn to all my music (1 pt) 

. 
Does not care about boob size (3 pts} 


If your score is 40-60 points, then you qual­ify most of the requirements to go out with the young beautiful women who developed this test. Please send your results and name to me and I will forward the results to the judges/ladies who will then decide whom they will go out with. 
This is no joke. If you do make the cut, then you will be given the opportunity to go out with the judges. Since there are three judges, we prefer that a group of three friends send in applications at <rne lime. All inquiries and results can be sent to spiderteo@yahoo.com. 
This quiz has been designed by anonymous individuals who are simply looking for the right guy, or have fun trying. Teo does not accept any responsibility of any consequences that would occur from taking this quiz. However, knowing the beautiful ladies in question, the risk is well worth it. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


TODAY'S STAFF 

News Scene 
Christine Kraly Mike Vanegas Matthew Smith Graphics Kyle Andrews Joe Mueller 
Spons Production 
Noah Amstadter 
Rachel Protzmen Viewpoint Lab Tech Colleen Gaughan Angela Campos 
The Observer (GSrS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday ncepr during t>:X;tn1 :rnd v1.c:1tion period.~. The Observer is a member ofrhe Associated Pre~:!,. All reproduction rights are reserved 

Hesburgh busted Friday, Sept. 27, 1974  Huddle's prices lower in survey Tuesday.Sept. 24, 1974  
When University president Father Theodore Hesburgh parked his unassuming Muslang in front of the adminis­tration building steps, he wasn't aware the watchful eyes of the security department_ rest for no one. A ticket was issued for illegal parking and was placed under his windshield wiper.  Contrary to rumors, the increased prkes on cookies and crackers at the Huddle are keeping up with local and national rate hikes. Raising prices was necessary for the Huddle to stay competitive. Fig Newton packs now cost 83 cents. Chips Ahoy bags ring in at $1.07 and Triscuts have risen to 73 cents a box.  

OUTSIDE THE DOME Compiled from U.Wire reports 
College begins for IS-year-old Baylor student 
"It's been a goal ofmine entering college presents a number WACO, Texas of changes in life, Akuly said he feels
because one ofmy biggest
Haseeb Akuly, 15, is the youngest his adjustment to college life isn't student at Baylor. priorities is serving and significantly different from anyone The Arlington freshman graduated pleasing God, and this is a else's. from the Texas Christian Academv in "It feels weird sometimes, but it's
way I could enjoy doing that. " 
just three years. Akuly said school not hard to get along with people in 
officials at his high school were the my classes," he said. "Most people 
first to rec\)mmend graduating early. Haseeb Akuly don't know my age and I don't usual­
The young freshman also skipped ly tell people unless they ask." 

15-year-old college student 
_the sixth grade and began grammar Akuly said adjusting to college life 
school at an "1mrly age.n has been only as difficult as leaving 
Although Akuly had given a lot of behind his classmates from high 
attention to completing his pre-colle­pre-med reputation, and I was look­school. Akuly had friends both in the 
giate career quicker than most do, ing to stay in state," he said. junior class he entered high school 
he said he is anxious to begin achiev­Studying to achieve his goal of with and the senior class he graduat­
ing some of his goals at the collegiate becoming a doctor is extremely ed with last spring. 
level; important to Akuly. During his high school years, Akuly 
Entering the medical field has been "It's been a goal of mine because participated in the science fair, and 
a long-time goal for Akuly, and he one of my biggest priorities is serving was a member of the National Honor 
said Baylor's reputation helped make and pleasing God, and this is a way I Society and played a variety of defen­
his decision to come here easy. could enjoy doing that," he said. sive positions for his high school's 
"I heard that it [Baylor) had a good While many students may find that football team. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
Sunny Pt. Cloudy Clo~dy

Vi.i A5soc"11'8rl P'rMJS 

Atlanta 80 52 Fredonia 67 54 Pittsburgh 69 52 Boston 76 58 Kansas City 81 56 San Antonio 90 55 Buffalo 65 54 Los Angeles 79 63 San Francisco 76 58 Chicago 66 50 New Orleans 83 56 Seattle 62 49 Dallas 89 62 New York 78 60 Washington 80 56 

THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME, SAINT MARY'S HISTORY 
Underground burglars are caught 
LAS CRUCES, N.M. 
Five men are still awaiting trial after allegedly bur­glarizing several New Mexico State University build­ings by way of an underground tunnel system on cam­pus. Former NMSU student David Burgess, 18, along with Las Cruces residents Rick Sarracino, 21; Joseph Washburn, 19; and Peter Gonzalez, 20·, have been charged with several counts of burglary, said Lt. Dominic King of the NMSU Police Department. They were arrested on March 27 by NMSU police and are suspected of stealing several computers, televisions and other electronic items from dorms, baseball fields, and the sports complex, King said. The suspects allegedly entered the buildings through a system of underground tunnels. According to King, the suspects broke into the tunnels on several different occasions. The tunnels run about two and a half miles under­ground and connect several of the buildings on cam­pus. They were built about 40 years ago and are used for delivering thermal utilities such as high pressure steam and boilled water, said Ben Woods, vice presi­dent for facilities. 


Rankings affect Cornel enrollment 
ITHACA, N.Y. 
U.S. News & World Report College rankings do sig­nificantly affect the number and quality of applications for the next year's freshman class, according to a Corne! University professor. "Although people used to discount [the rankings], enough students and parents focus on them that when rankings go up, good things happen for the school and vice versa," said ILR prof. Robert Ehrenberg, coauthor of a new report titled, "The Impact of U.S. News & World Report college. rankings on admissions outcomes and pricing policies at selective private institutions." He said that although 80 percent of college applicants go to their local uni­versities and colleges, "it's in the top 50, where col­leges are ranked [ordinally] where people are neurotic about it. It's that population of high achievement kids to whom this data matters significantly," Ehrenberg continued. The study was the first of its kind to pro­vide "empirical analysis of the impact of these rank­ings on applications, admissions, and enrollment deci-• sions, as well as on institutions' pricing policies," according to its abstract. 
~ 
COLD 

Friday, September 24, 1999 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 




SOA hits moral nerve of campus Pax Christi 
By MATT BUNDA 
Nt'Ws Writer 
Emotions tend to flare 011 

both sides o!' any ddrntn, and 
tlw cas1i ol' lhH eonlrovnrsial 
School of' i\nwrirns (SO/\) is no 
execplillll. 
Brendan li1-;a11, a m<rn1b11r or 

Nolrn llanw's l'ax Christi slll­
dBnl organization, virul,!ntly 
calls !'or Lim sd10ol lo b(~ -closed. 
"If tlw Auwricall public knnw 
tlw truth about this school. 
llwy would lw horrilicd," Egun 
said. 
But 1.:gan's calls w1int unan­

SWPrnd narliPr this v1.1H!k when 
C1111grPss vol1\d· lo continue 
funding SOA al its current 
lnvnl dospill' a llm.1s1! 11rnjori­
ty's volf\ to n•durP llw sf'hool's 
budgd by $2 million. 
SO/\. a military in Fort 
Bc\nning. Ga .. trains young 
Latin American men -often 
soldiers in their home coun­
tries -in tlw ways of dt>moc­racy. However, in the last 20 years, many of the school's graduates have been implicat­ed in murder, dictatorship and nppn1ssion. Father Roy Bourgeois said in a recent lec­tun:i al Notre Dame. 
HPccnt reports of the school's aclivitins rr,veal counter-insurgerH:y training and Pducation in torturp tac­tics, Bourgeois said. lnvm,tigation of graduates has exposed their participation i11 acts or genocide and other atl'Ocities. 
Soldiers took these methods of' guerilla warfarn back lo Lalin Amorican dictatorial rngimes, Bourg1:ois said. Manu,-!I Noriega, former drug­run n nr and dictator of' Panama. graduated from tlw school. 
SOA admits to having taught counter-insurgency tactics in tho past. but assumes no rn!>ponsibility for the action!> of its students after graduation, Bourgeois said. 

nd.edu/ ~ethics 

Spencer Nunley Former Vice President Bayer Corp. 
speaking Tuesday, September 28 
7:30 PM Jordan Auditorium Coba 
HPC 

Friday, Sept. 24 

Location 
Putt-putt & Games Stude's Lounge Papa Vino's Cushing Auditorium Movies 14 

Saturday, Sept. 25 
Location 
Yesterday's Papa Vino's Cushing Auditorium Movies 14 

Sunday, Sept. 26 
Location 
Papa Vino's 
Event 
Putt-putt Dinner Dinner SUB Movie-Entrapment Movie 

Event 
Dinner Dinner SUB Movie-Entrapment Movie 


Event 
Dinner 

"ff the American public knew the truth about this school, they would be horrified. ,.. 
Brendan Egan Pax Christi member 

After this week's Senate vot,~. SO/\ opponents criticized the government's support of what they perceive as a dan­gerous institution. Some are pleased, however, that the issUfl was presented on Capitol llill and do not see the contin­uation of.SOA funding as a largo setback. 
"/\ vote passed at all is a vic­tory," said Sheila McCarthy, a member oJ' Pax Christi. 
Opponents of the school said they believe the Amuican public will not stand for bla­tant human-rights violations if awa•·<Hrnss continues to rise. 
"We are not going away, 

We're going to keep coming back to Washington and to the main gate of Fort Benning in greater and greater numbers every year until that school is shut down," Bourgeois said. 
Supporters of closing SOA continue to question why the school remains open if infor­mation about the its terrorist lessons are public. 
One factor is the United States government, which admits there have been some questionable training practices in the past, but holds to the Cold War concept of spreading democracy throughout the world, Bourgeois explained. 
The military contends that it is training soldiers to spread democracy through peaceful means in their home countries, thus increasing wealth and prosperity and bettering the lives of the citizens of the country, he said. 
Egan says the school remains open for three prima­ry reasons. One of the most important reasons is military pride. 
"The military does not want to he told what to do, ever," he said. 
Another reason is that the school keeps the United States· hand in Latin American gov­ernment and rule. and, gradu­ates of Urn school act as pup­pets for th11 U.S., protecting 
U.S. economic and governmen­tal interests, Egan said. 
Finally, graduates of the school provide an influx of monev i·nto the United States by purchasing arms from U.S, weapons contractors, and spending thoir own money in the U.S. -money they gain through dictatorial rule of their home countries and drug running. Egan explained. 
Opposing and denouncing these claim are groups like SOA Watch, founded by Bourgeois. Notre Dame's Pax Christi group is organizing a trip to the annual protest at Fort Benning in November. 


Mahowald: 'Philosophy changes us' 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
News Writer 
Philosophy is a part of every­one's life. said Dr. Mary Mahowald, a medical ethicist arrd obstetrics and gynecology professor at the University of Chicago, in her lecture Thursday. 
Mahowald's speech, "Women in the Philosophical Landscape," highlighted the presence of phi­losophy in today's society, espe­cially regarding women's roles. 
"I am a feminist and an egali~ tarian," she said. "Justice is a basic Pthical principle, and gen­


Fun-For-Free Week 
Special 
1 free round/couple 1 free appetizer or dessert/couple 1 free appetizer or dessert/couple $2 admission $4 movies all night 

Special 
1 free dessert/couple 1 free appetizer or dessert/couple $2 admission $4 movies all night 

Special 
1 free appetizer or dessert/couple 

"Philosophy changes us and it changes the world." 
Dr. Mary Mahowald medical ethicist, professor 
der justice is a subset of jus­tice." 
Philosophy is meant to be provocative and thought-evok­ing, she said. 
"Philosophical questions are intended to be disturbing," she explained. "They are not intend­ed to make people happy. It is precisely those kinds of ques­tions I need to raise and ask." 
The key to understanding phi­losophy. she said. is in under­standing its language. "Ordinary words really do have a lot of dif­ferent me·anings to different people. To avoid misunder­
standings, ask, 'What did you mean by that?'" 
Mahowald said the impor­tance of philosophy arc its effects on communication. "The two essential tasks of philoso­phy are to clarify concepts and analyze arguments. 
"Aristotle defined philosophy as the study of all things in and to their final end," she said. "Philosophy changes us and it changes the world." 
Mahowald graduated from Saint Francis College in Brooklyn, N.Y., and got her Ph.D. at Marquette University. lier book, "Genes, Women, Equality," is due out next week. 
The lecture was held in Haggar College Center at Saint Mary's and was part of a series begun last ynar and designed to present women from a wide range of' backgrounds in philos­ophy. 


ATTENTION! 
HOUSEKEEPING.& CUSTODIAi.PERSONNEL 
FEMCO}ll~i~td1¦111~1~~:BER 30 

RSVP @/f;.800-678-2362 by September 23 

The committee then evalu­a les t.he application and


Patents 
continued trurn page I 
image preserved as one that is respcctablti and µortraycd in positivu terms. 
A easl' surfacnd last w_inler involving a young womari who included Llw Notre Danw logo among nmh, pictures on her Web site. 
"Lucki," tlw 1rnmt\ used by the woman who claimPd to be a Notre Dame student, was issued n ..c(rnse and desist" letter al't.nr thn General Counsel learnpd of the Web sitf'. The (:ounsel stat1~d last December that the letter "infonrn, 1ltiim that we know they'n' using 011 r Iracltrniark and lurckrsl them to 

"Ifyou don't protect them lead tlrn ou­
rem o ,. P 1 h P trademark." /lraclemarksJ. you can c ump us 
reports of

The logo lose your rights. " 
infringement.
was promptly 
Because a

r e ni o v (' d Carol Kaesebier large portion
from Uw site. 
of student

.. T h C vice president, 
infrin gemPnt
Unive1·sitv 

General Counsel office 
doesn't wa1i't anything embarrassing or disgraceful to tlrn l'niversity," Kansebior said. 
After Uw letter is issued. the~ General Counsel decides if legal action will ensue Lased on the violator's response and nature of the infringement. 
"Federal and state law gives us the right to file suit and collect trip!P damages includ­ing our attoriwy fews. and the cost lo incur tlw case," HoyP, said. 
Stopping trademark infringPnwnt is not. however, done to makt' a financial prof­it, General Counsnl officials said. 
"Our goal is to get them to stop, n(it collect money from them ... KaPscibiPr said. 

Stamp of Approval 
Recogni1.ing Notrn Damt! apparcil isn't a di!Tindt task, thanks Lo a unique symbol that t'.!Parly distinguishes legal appan•I from llw rest. 
A uniquu hang tag featuring the GoldPn Donw which certi­fies all IPgal Notrn Dame apparel s!'rvus-as. the stamp of approval for manufacturers who havP p1•rmission to US£\ the logo. 
Not many pot1rntial manu­facturnrs and outside groups easily attain permission. 
"We only grant a limited numb1ir of' lice11s1os," KaesnbiPr said. Part of' that may be du1! to tlrn largn num­bers of applications that the trademark and licensing com­m i 1 t (' n receives. 

"We try not lo penalize a that Notre
"WP grant 
Danrn's main

a very small group based on the poor 
goal is to
n u n; b (' r . 

decision ofone or two 
protnct the
maybP 01w Dr 

people." Uni Vf! rsi ty ·s
two of thos1• 
rights to its
requPSlS, 
imagP.
KaPsPbi1·r 


Joe Cassidy 
.. F 1• d 1• r a!
said. .., TIH· 

director of student activities 
laws and
trad 1' 111 arks and lin,nsing committ,·c•I ment a.lmost monthly." 
Mat1ul'actur1'rs a11<l outside groups mus! submil all appli­cation tu t!w !icPnsing depart­ment d<'lailing what tho prod­uct is. wlwrP it is manuf"ac:­tured. ,~xJH'!'ll!d product rnv­enucs. rnarkPling Lfichniques and storns in which it will be\ sold. 
The application is then returned with samples of other products lhll company has manuf"a(·.turnd. bel'ore it is presentud lo tho tradHmark and lioinsing committee. 
determines if' tlw use is legiti­mate, Kuescbier said. 
"The additional thing we'll ask as we go forward is where [the product] is manufac­tured," she said. 
Details com.:erning manufac­l u ring is a crucial part of dHtermining legitimacy, because Nolre Dame has cum­m ittod to becoming a leader in stopping sweatshop manu­facturing of University aµpar­el. 
While only two requests are grant.ed per month, it is far easier for students to a.ttain permission than outside ven­dors, Kaesebier said. 
Although student pnrmis­sion is easier to attain, stu­
dent viola­
tions also 
violations are 
reported dur­
ing f'ootball season. t.he University obtuins a temporary restraining ordN !'or th11 season. IL gives University Security t.he authority to seize unlicensed products sold on f'oolball weekends. 
The seized products are sent to a shredding machine on campus and turned into rags. 
The practice is also frequent among visitors attempting to make a personal profit off the trad1fo1arks. Student offend­ers ani reported to .student activitil~S and residence life. 
ffWhen we see them being sold, we investigate," Kaesebier said. University students are allowed lo sell individual products in dorms, but elsnwhere it is considered illegal. 

Student violations are han­dled on a case-to-casci basis, said .Ion Cassidy, direc:tor of studPn! activities. 
"Whnn a group is rnported, the lirst thing we look at is i1' it was a mistake or intention­al." he said ...We try not to penalize a group based on the poor decision of one or two people." 

Holding on 
failure> to protect Notre DamP,'s rights could mean los­ing them. 
lloyi~ cited a Univnrsity of Wisconsin case wlrnre the institution failed to protect its logos and lost exclusive rights 
tu them. 
lloyP added 
statn laws 
arc sr:l 11p to 

give the tradomark holder (11(' legal rights to protnl"t thPSP marks," lrn said. "Our primary rnas·on !"or protncti ng tradt,: marks is so that WP do not lose tlwso rights." 
KaesPbier agreed. 

"[We hold an<l µrosc:cute lhn tradt. marks] to protect our image. our rights to our trademarks." she said. "If you don't protect them. you can lose your rights." 


got news? 1-5323. 

All are invited to attend!! 
When: Friday, September 24, 1999 Where: 2nd Floor of Lafortune 
\ 
....._ 
Time: Noon -1:30 pm 
-
~ The ceremony begins at noon with an official ribbon cutting and blessing. 
Sponsored by the Office of Multicultural Student Affairs and the Office of International Student Affairs 




orld 
I ¦ 

Friday, September 24, 1999 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES. page 5 
AFP Photo Protestors rally against Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic in Belgrade on Sept. 23. The meeting was organized by the opposition coalition Alliance for Change. 
Serbs urged to protest Milosevic 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Blind man commits robbery 
MUSKEGON, Mich. 

/\ blind man is a1'.cuse<l of' rohbing two stores whi!A carrying his whilA cane. Leon 1:rigshy Martin; :-3:-1. of Muskngon lfoights, was arraigrwd WNlnnsday on an armed robbery chargtL l'olicn said they lrnlievc the susµecl had two an:ornplices when robbing the Hons,•vclt Park ltilc•-Aid store Tuesday and the Mnij1,r stun, in Norton Shorns on Wednesday. The holdups got a $20 bill from the drugstore and $:120 from Meijcr. µolii:e said. When arrnstod, Martin admitl.lH.I lw had been smok­ing crack that night with a man and a woman and told policn lw had bBt:n forced to commit tb11 rnbbnries. Investigators said they do not b1•1inv,, lw was f'orl'.ed to commit tlw rob­lrnrins. sinc1• lw was alotrn sevnral limns <lur­ing tlw tlwfls and rnuld have asked for 111\lp. 
Transplants help 
muscle diseases 
BOSTON 

Bo1w marrow transplants could rnstore strnngth to patiPnts with muscular dystrophy ancl o!hnr muscl11-wasting dislrnses. ros,iarrlwrs said. U,1snarclrnrs at Childnrn's llospital who infused muscular dystrophy­weakenpd mice with bonP murrow cells taken from !wa!thy mice found that the cells gerrnr­atPd healthy muscle t:Plls. Those healthy cells tlwn travelod through tlw blood stream and to somP PXlt•nl restornd tlw mic<>'s ravaged skeletal muscles, according to lead n1searchers Hichard Mulligan and Louis Kunkel of Children's llospital and Harvard Medical Sr.hool. The findings are important becausn adults may haw a reservoir of these cells in their bodies that have the potential to gi11rnrat11 ollwr types of cells, said Emanuela Gussoni, a biologist in Kunkel's lab and lead author of' tlw paper in Thursday's issue of' the journal Naturn. 
Russian explosives are a hoax 
MOSCOW 

The cliscovory of' what looked like powerful explosiv<!S set to blow up a 12-story apart­rnnnt building in westPrn Hussia prompted a frantic 1wacuation of' rosid1rnts today. but sncurity officials said later the set-up may have bncm a prank. Hussia has becm tc1rrifind hy a snriPs or apartment building bombings that lrnvP killed some :100 people in Moscow and two other Hussian citi11s this month. The blasts havn been blamed on Islamic militants from breakaway Chechnya, who have twice invaded the rrnighboring rngion of Dagestan in southern Hussia since the beginning of August. In the wake of the bombings, most H11ssians have bmm watchful for any unusual activity, and authorities have urged people to report any unattended bags or other suspi­cious objects. 

Composite
1280.41 
Volume:
-30. IO


10,318.59 87-1,006, 165 
VOLUME LEADERS 

CCIPWI rxczu 1i CHAfflil $ CONQI PJUCI 
IN'HL C'Ol':P !N'l'C -6. ,2 -5.:3U5 3g. 791 DILt. CotlPUTID OE.LL -6 ,65 -3.Qli:.115 lfi.256 NlCflOOJ"T coa, NUT -~ .01 -4..871:i 15.48' J.f'?I[ A.ID COU RAC -14 .29 -2 ,0000 21.Cl04 AMPJ:CA OIU,.lN& AOL -} .85 -3 ,SOCIO 43,619' GL.OIIA.L CRO?tiO GB.L.X +l.81 HLtiSSQ l.i .016 CISCO BYBT'SM csco -3. 97 -2 .e?tJO 19.361 TAHOO UK' YHOO -l ,~O _,. 7500 a.,u CYB&ll:OOLD COLD •ll ,33 -+l..0000 l.t.8:12 AMAZON . CO)t"'"lNC ,.,.,. -5.H -3 .7500 U,4;18 
YUGOSLAVIA 


Associated Press 

BELGRADE 
Opposition leaders on Thursday urged more peo­ple to join street protests demanding the ouster of President Slobodan Milosevic after the relatively poor turnout throughout Serbia raised doubts about the effectiveness of their strategy. 
As thousands marched for the third consecutive day, a prominent opposition leader warned that failure by peaceful demonstrators to force the Yugoslav leader from office would perpetu­ate his rule. 
"If we don't succeed the worst will happen ­Milosevic will rule for decades more," said Zoran Djindjic, whose Democratic Party is a member of the opposition coalition Alliance 
Council calls nations to fight terrorism 
for Change spearheading rallies against Milosevic. 
"Belgraders yet have to realize that Milosevic's regime took away our free­dom, our future -if that is not reason enough to prevail on the streets, what is?" Djindjic asked as he addressed a crowd of up to 2,000 assembled on a down­town square. 
"We have onlv two-or three months left. ·1 am caU­ing on those who still don't see what is going on to rise," Djindjic said. 
Afterward, the crowd grew to 5,000 as people marched through the down­to½11 area, booing, whistling and chanting "Go, Slobo, Go" and "Thieves, thieves, resign." Traffic police scrambled to clear cars ahead of the marchers. 
Earlier, Vladan Batie, another opposition leader, said that despite the low turnout -the first day of protests had drawn only 10,000 to 15,000 of Belgrade's two million popu­lace -the opposition was pleased with the popular response and expected the demonstrations to grow in coming days. 
Similar rallies are being held daily since Tuesday in some 20 other cities and towns in Serbia. On Thursday, about 5,000 opposition supporters turned up in Nis and Novi Sad respectively, Serbia's second and third largest cities. 
State-run media were quick to dismiss the rallies as a "total debacle." 
"It was evident today in Belgrade that the Alliance for Change, regardless of the enormous support from their Western sponsors, can­not woo residents of Serbia to [support] their treacher­
international law, including respect for human rights," the statement said. 
The ministers said nations "nee·d to oppose conces­sions to terrorist demands and to deny hostage-takers any benefit from their acts." 
They also agreed that those providing safe-haven to terrorists should be held accountable for their violent actions. 
Of the five permanent members of the Council. the United States and Russia have both experienced recent acts ofterrorism. 
A series of bomb blasts blamed on Islamic sepa­
ous policies," a commentary carried by the state-run Tanjug news agency read. "Djindjic and his followers are desperate for a formula to attract more protesters." 
The state media accused the protesters of violence, saying the marchers had damaged two vehicles in the traffic confusion they caused. Independent reporters saw the cars had actually charged at the com­ing demonstrators. 
As if dispAlling doubts on whether the movement can succeed and clutching the opposition's pamphlet "Change," 25-year-old Belgrade student Ceca Ilic said she gives the protests at least two to three months to topple the regime. 
''I'll be here every day." said Milan Aksic, 65, a marching prisoner. "/\ per­son without faith has no 
· future." 
ratists have killed over 300 people in Russia in recP.nt weeks. 
Last year's bombings of 
U.S. embassies in Tanzania and Kenya killed 259 peo­ple. The United States has demanded that the alleged mastermind of the attack, Osama bin Laden, he hand­ed over by Afghanistan, where he is currently believed to bP. sheltered. 
The Security Council min­isters also expressed the hope that a draft convention on the suppression of nuclear terrorism could be completed before the end of the year. 
Associated Press 

UNITED NATIONS 
Responding lo a spate of bombings in Russia and increasing terrorism around the world, the five permanent members of the 
U.N. Security Council called Thursday fo-r greater global cooperation lo stern the vio­lent attacks. 
The veto-wielding council members -t.he United States, Britain, France, Hussia and China -also urged nations not tn give in to tho demands of kidnap­pen;. 
"We consider it vital to strnngthen, under the aus­pices of the United Nations, international cooperation to fight terrorism in all its forms," the foreign minis­ters said in a statement released Thursday after a 
luncheon  with  U.N.  
Secretary-GenP.ral  Kofi  
Annan.  

The live ministers strong­ly rejected attempts by any nation to go outside the legal framework in lighting terrorism. 
International cooperation "must be firmly based on the principles of the U.N. Charter and norms of 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
GETTING DOWN TO BUSINESS 

BETSY STOREY(rhe Observer 
Business representatives speak at "Measuring and Managing Ethical Risk: How Investing In Ethics Adds Value," a business conference taking pla~e today from 9 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. in McKenna Hall. 
Lanzalaco: Death penalty is wrong 
By NELLIE WILLIAMS 
News Wrm·r 
Capital punishment fails to understand the humanity of people it affects, said Father Joe Lan1.alaco. a death row chaplain for the state prison in Michigan City in his lecture Thursdav. 
"The ;ll'ath penalty brings out th(' worst in human beings." said Lanzalaco, a Vietnam vPteran has been a priest for I 2 years. 
"[I'm] not someone who read a book once and said the death penalty was wrong," Lanzalaco said, strc•ssing that he has experienc<'d violence and knows what it can do to peo­ple. 
"We sonwtimes have a need to lash out or get some kind of revengt•. and maybe some­times WP don't have the nerve to do il. so we pay someone else to do it (the death penal­ty]." 

r------------,
I SAVE $1.00 I I ON ANY LARGE FRUIT I I SMOOTHIE! I 
¾l'<r",

I ,..~~r, ,.. ~ I I ~~~ -~



l --~­
, "A HEALTHY MEAL IN 
I ITSELF" 
l p 
I CAMPUS SHOPPES : 1837 SO. BEND AVE. (JUST EAST OF NO)
L~~P,2~~~R_5~1~~==J 
"The death penalty brings out the worst in human beings.,, 
Father Joe Lanzalaco death row chaplain 
The section designated as death row is chiling. Lanzalaco said. 
"!The men are! just waiting for their sentence; to be acquilted or put to death," he said. 
"I see a human face on men I know that got executed ... until you know what you're doing, that these men have lives and souls, vou can't make a deci­sion on' the death penalty." 
Lanzalaco also discussed the growth of church sP-rvices at his ward. 
When he first went to the Michigan City prison as a chaplain, only eight or 10 men from ·the group of 1,700 inmates celebrated Mass. Over time, though, the group grew to 70. 

Lanzalaco said that society shouldn't identify a person by the worst thing he or she has done. Inmates are human beings, he said, and though they may have done a terrible thing, "not one of their deaths have brought their victims back lo life." 
Instead, their executions have only helped the state to create the same kind of crimi­nal behavior. 
"I think kiUing anybody is wrong," he said. "II] take my message from Christ -Love your neighbor as yourself." 
He also noted racial implica­tions behind the death penalty. Since 1966, six men have been executed in Indiana, three white and three African American. 
The difference, however. is that all the white men pulled their appeals and wanted to be executed. The black men were fighting their appeals when they were executed. 

HAIR MODELS NEEDED 
For Monday's Training Program by Licensed Professionals Call for Information 289-5080 

Making a d1f'f'erence has always· been a matter ofJ1pplying yourself. Here's whe:re to apply. 
PEACE 


CORPS 
The toughest job 
you'll ever lov.e. 


How :t:a.r ar, you willillg to go to >na.ke a di:fforenco? 
UNIVERSln OF NOTRE DAME Information MeetingSunday, 5eptember 26, 4:00 -6:00 p.m.LaFortune Hall, Montgomery Theater 
Interviews 
Monday, September 27 • Tuesday, September 28 
8:30 a.m. -5:00 p.m., Career Services, Flanner Hall 
Contact us at www.peacecorps.gov or 1-800-424-85'80. 
Friday, September 24, 1999 

CORRECTION 

A review of "For Love of the Game" in Thursday's Observer was attributed to Mike McMorrow. It should have been attrib­uted to Jillian DePaul. 
The Observer regrets the error. 

Turtle Creek 

Parking By Permit Only 
Friday 4:00 p.m. to Sunday 6:00 p.m. 
Towing By Mark's Towing 1505 W. Sample 
South Bend, IN 4661 ~ 

¦ 



Tell us how you feel. Use Observer Viewpoint. 


______ ....,._____________ ------...---___,,._.......--...-..-----~­
Friday. s~•prr.:mber 24, 1999 The Observe~ . GOVERNMENT NEWS page 7 
--==-=-========= 


Moynihan supports Bradley in presidential race 
Associa1cJ l'rcss 
NliW YOHK 

Nnw York's most prominent Dcmrn:rut. Son. !),mini l'atrick Moynihan. 1•1Hlors1'.d Bill 
Hrad!Pv l'or pr n s iii,. 11 L Thursdav. sayi11g Vi;'.,· Pn1sidP11t Al c;orP "can't IJ,, 
electnd." 
ThP 72­


y c a r -0 1d Bradley senator. 
know11 for his quirky i11Lcll1•1'.tL1al style. quotPd v)'Poclrow Wilson as 
saying tlrn presidency required AL Gore's campaign head­candidates "from among wise quarters. communications and prudent athletes, a small director Kiki Moore suggested class." Moynihan's imprimatur would Bradley was a Rhodes schol­make little difference: 'Tm 
ar and aplayer on l\-vo NBA sure President Bob Kerrey championship tnams with the appreciated [Moynihan'sl sup­New York Knicks. port in 1992." 
''I've srn:n this purlicular ath­But opinions varied. low, wis1i and prudent. work in "At this point in time, it thti U.S. Senate for 1 S years," makes a difference because Moynihan said. "lie is a man Moynihan is a venerated figure with heart and courage and within the Democratic Party," stamina." said Democratic consultant 
t\sknd why he wasn't sup­George Arzt. "But over the long porting tho vicn presid!•nt. the term, it usuallv doesn't trans­lkmocratil: l'ronl-runner, late into votes.,; Moynihan replied: ''Nothing is "An endorsement from 
tlrn matter with Gore, but he Moynihan in this state has got can't he t!lm:ted." lo be a great day for the 
STUDENT SAVINGS Certificate 
Please send me ESPN The Magazine at the special student rate of 26 Issues for $13. (Wow, that's only 50 cents an issue!) Name __________________ Address _________________ 
City_________State ___ Zip,___ 
ESPN The Magazine P.O. Box 37328 

S9JBMA
Boone, IA 50037-0328 

Bradley campaign," said The state's other senator, Robert McClure, senior associ­Democrat Charles Schumer, ate dean of Syracuse has not made a formal University's Maxwell School of endorsement. Citizenship and Public Affairs. National polls show Gore "Bradley is pitching himself as leads Bradley, but recent sur­exactly the kind of intellectual, veys in New Hampshire and moderate progressive that New York have shown a tight Senator Moynihan has always race between the two been seen as." Democrats. 
Comptroller Carl McCall, a New York is one of 14 states Gore backor, said the endorse­to pick presidential nominees ment "makes a good story on March 7. today. In terms of impact over "We have to win this prima­the long run, ry on March it means very 7," Moynihan 
little." "He is a man with heart said. "We'll Bradley and courage and be proud of 
acknowledged ourselves for
stamina."
his difficult having been course. here early. "I know we Daniel Patrick Moynihan We can do it." are up against Moynihan
New York senator, D. 
a party estab­lishment that has a .lot of entrenched power," he said. "But this will ultimate­ly be decided by the people themselves." 
Moynihan is the third senator to endorse 13radley, joining Paul Wellstone of Minnesota and Bob Kerrey of Nebraska. Bradley served three terms as a New .Jersey senator, working with Moynihan -who was first elected in 1976 -on the Senate Finance Committee. 
Gore has been endorsed by more than 100 members of Congress, including 10 of the 19 Democrats from New York. 
Ail Shows Before 6 PM $4.00 
$4,00 S1udent,JC'h1Jdren/Senioc-; $~.50 A<lull 
S!ereo Surround Sound in all Theatres 
American Pie R 
12:55 3:10 5:25 7:40 10:05 Bowlinger PG-13 12:55 3:15 5:35 7:55 10:10 
Double Jeopardy R 1:05 4:10 7:15 9:45 2:10 5:00 8:00 10:30 
Deep Blue Sea R 7:05 9'.40 
For Love of the Game PG 13 12:50 3:50 7:00 9:55 ss 1 :35 4:35 7:40 10:35 ss 
In Too Deep R 2:00 4:30 Jakob the Liar PG-13 
1 :40 4 :20 7:00 9:50 
Star Wars Eps 1 PG 1:30 4'.15 7:00 9:50 
Stigmata R 1 :10 3:35 7:05 9:35 ss 2:05 4:45 7:45 10:15 ss 
Stir of Echoes R 12:45 3:00 5:15 7:35 10:10 The 13th Warrior R 12:50 3:05 5:30 7:50 10:15 The Haunting PG-13 
1:00 4'.00 7:10 10:00 

fODA!S TIM!; ONI.V fCJA CA1 All'.ANU !!Cm I.I.ill ~~OIW ACmSIBtl . tlO PIIS!b . NO SIM.?iAl'lRS 
also backed 
first lady Hillary Rodlrnm Clinton, a Gore supporter, to replace him as senator when he rctirns at the end of 2000. 
Asked about the conflict of supporting f\trs. Clinton but not Gore, Moynihan said simply: "I think she can be !l!ectt1d sena­tor." 
Mrs. Clinton would not com­ment on whetlrnr Moynihan's endorsement of Bradley was awkward for her, saying only that she strongly supports Gore but is grateful for Moynihan 's backing for her own aspira­tions. 

Mrs. Sandra· Tito & the late Dr. 
William A Tito (Riversid~, II.) 
announce the engagement of 
their daughter, Michelle Bar­
bara Tito, to Robert John 
Kuehn Ill, son of Col (ret.) & 
Mrs Robert J. Kuehn, Jr. ( Huntsville, Ala.). Michelle is a biology Phd. candidate at the University of Notre Dame, where she also had her under­grad experience. John, the future groom, graduated magna cum laude from his Notre Dame undergrad studies and is now completing his fast year at Notre Dame's School of Law. A late Sept 2000 wedding day is set They plan to remain in South Bend close to Notre Dame where Michelle will complete her Phd. and John will practice law 
with Barnes & Thornburg, a locally prestigious firm. They will _be marrred m Sacred Heart Basilica on Notre Dame's 
campus 


--------------------------------......------~--~-~----..._.----, 
page 8 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Friday, September 24, 1999 

Task force will probe 
Justice Department 
many questions which are left

Associated l'rcss 
unanswered," Specter, said. "Things just aren't right,"WASHINGTON agreed Grassley. 
Senat<' lfopublicans on Specter said that at the

Thursday created a task force 
request of former Sen. John

to investigate how President Danforth he will hold off for Clinton's Justice Department 30 days before talking to wit­
handled inquiries into the nesses of the government'sWaco standoff, campaign 
siege of the Branch Davidian

finance 
compound.

abuses and 
R e n o

nuclear (\spi­"There are a great, great 
n a m c d onage. 

A many questions which Danforth to head an

Demorrat are left unanswered." 
independent

scoffnd. 
investigation

questioning 
Arlen Specter of the gov­

t h (~ 
senator, Pa. ernment's ­

Republicans' use of forcemotives and 
during thesaying he 1993 stand­

wouldn't participate. 
off in Waco. The siege ended
SenatP Majority Leader 
in a fire and the deaths of

Trent Loll said the task force about 80 Davidians.
would by ('.haired by Sen. 
In a letter to the Judiciary

Arlen Spnctor. fl-Pa., and Committee last week,
would fol'us on "what in the 
Danforth complained thatworld is happening at the 

Specter's investigators alroady Justicn Department'? Why is had interviewed witnesses. 

there no justice at tlrn Juslice Department"" 
Lott said the five-member task forcP would be bipartisan with two more Republicans and two DPrnocrats in addition to Spectn. Hut only one other Republican member, Sen. Charles r;rassley of Iowa. was present ,1t, '['hursday's announcP111ent and no Democrats attPnded. 
"This is a Republican task 

force. No l)pmocrats have 
been involved," said Sen. 
Patrick Leahy of Vermont, the 
senior Democrat on the 
Judiciary Committee. "I don't 
intend · to be part of a 
Republil'an-organized, parti­
san investigation." 
Spector already has moved 

forward 1111 his probe. He con­
firmed h,~ had talked with 
Charles LaBella about leading 
the pa1101·s investigati~n. 
LaBella is a former Justice 
Departnwnt prosecutor ~ho 
publicly disagreed w1t,h 
Attorney Gmrnral Janet Reno s 
decision to not have an out­
side. indl1pendent counsel 
investigat11 fund-raising abus­
es by tlw Clinton-Gore cam­
paign in tlic 1996 election. 
"TherP are a great. great 
"Consider this an open invitation to discuss your insurance needs in my new office." 
Being in good hands is the only place to be:" 





George C. Scott dies at 7 I 
"He made every actor that cemented his reputation
Associated Press 
as a Hollywood outsider. 

proud to say they were in 
He had been nominated for

LOS ANGELES 
the same profession." "Anatomy of a Murder" in
George C. Scott, the forbid­
1959 and said nothing about

ding-looking, gravel-voiced 
it. But then he tried to decline

actor who turned in an Oscar-. Jack Lemmon 
the nomination for "The

winning performance as the actor 
Hustler" in 1962, calling the

profane and patriotic Gen. 
Academy Awards a meaning­

George S. Patton, and then 
Jack Lemmon. 
less popularity contest. 

declined the honor, has died at 
Scott dismissed moviemaking 
When he was nominated for
71. 

as tedious and said he only 
"Patton," he again tried to

Scott died Wednesday of a 
made films for the money. "I 
drop out, dismissing the

ruptured abdominal aortic 
have to work in the theater to 
awards as a "meat parade."

aneurysm at his home 40 miles 
stay sane," he once said. "You 
"Oh my God!" Oscar presen­

northwest of Los Angeles. 
can attack the stage fresh 
ter Goldie Hawn exclaimed

With his imperious presence, 
every night." 
that night. "The winner is

curled lip, animated eyebrows 
lie made his Broadway 
George C. Scott!" As the film

and the broken-nose profile of 
debut in "Comes a Day" in 
collected seven Academy

a Roman consul, Scott seemed 
1958, quickly earning his first 
Awards, Scott spent the

born to play the role of the leg­
of four Tony nominations. The 
evening watching hockey.

endary World War II general 
others were for "The 
Despite his very public snub,

in "Patton" in 1970. 
Andersonville Trial" in 1959, 
Scott was nominated the fol­

But his memorable roles also 
"Uncle Vanya" in 1974 and 
lowing year for "The Hospital"

included Gen. Buck Turgidson, 
"Death of a Salesman" in 
He didn't win.

the fatuous blowhard in 
1975. 
In private life, Scott was a

Stanley Kubrick's "Dr. 
He also won three Emmys ­
bellicose drinker whose nose

Strangelove"; and the dedicat­
the most recent last year as a 
was broken five times in four

ed doctor surrounded by 
supporting actor in a remake 
barroom brawls and one mug­

incompetence in "The 
of "12 Angry Men" -and was 
ging. He was married five

Hospital." · 
nominated for four Oscars. 
times -twice to the same

"He made every actor proud 
It was the award he wouldn't 
woman, actress Colleen

• to say that they were in the 
accept, the Oscar for "Patton," 
Dewhurst.

same profession," said actor 
......... 
Friday, September 24, 1999 The Ob.erver . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
FRA/i K 
Forum honors Wall, dedicates Dlelllorial 
LLOYD 
light, originally was less than 
Associated Press 
a mile from "Checkpoint


\JRIGMT 
Charlie," the famous crossingARLINGTON, Va.

® 
between East and West Berlin.

The Freedom Forum marked It was one of 300 guard tow­
the coming 10th anniversary 
ers standing along the Wall. 

of the fall of the Berlin Wall by "To really understand whatdedicating a 32-foot-wide sec­
AtiD COLLE.AGUEJ 
was going on in Germany, it istion of it, along with an origi­

important to know that the

nal guard tower. outside its wall ... was a painful daily
1/iDIAttA \JORKJ 

journalism museum Thursday. 
reality for the people of Berlin


The section outside the and Germany as a whole,"
Newseum is the largest on dis­
said German Ambassador

play outside Germany, said 
Jurgen Chrobog. The exhibit


E.XMIP->IT 
the Freedom Forum. 
"can only give At the cere­
an idea of 
mony. former 

"To really understand how oppres­
Secretary of 
sive and dis­

State James what was going on in 
turbing this
B a k e r 

Germany, it is important division was." 
remembered

tiO\J OPtti thru OCTOP->tR 24 
to know that the wall ... The exhibi­
rushing from tion will be 

a luncheon was a painful daily 
part of
with then­

reality for the people of Freedom
Phi Ii pp i ne 

Berlin and Germany Park outside
President

John G. P.:>lank Center for The Art~ 
the Newseum, 

Corazon as a whole." 
along with
312 E.ast 8thJtreet 
Aquino on 
items such asNov. 9, 1989.
Michigan City, Indiana 

Jurgen Chrobog the jail door
after he 
of' the cell

Gennan Ambassador
heard the 
where Martin
borders 
Luther King
between East 
Jr. was held

and West Germany had been in custody in 1963 and a repli­
FOR THE FIRST TIME EVER the Indiana works of 
opened. 
ca of the Goddess of

"By the time I arrived at the
famed architect Frank Lloyd Wright and his 
Democracy, made by plasterWhite House to discuss our and paper by the students on

colleagues are showcased at an important exhibit. 
response with President Bush, 
the Tiananmen Square in

CNN was already broadcasting Beijing during the democracythose unforgettable images of movement in 1989. 
young Germans literally chip­
The Newseum will hold aping away at the Wall," he


FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL: 
series of programs and exhibi­said. 
tions about the fall of BerlinThe watchtower in the exhi­


877-FLW-1999 
Wall.

bition, topped by a searching 
Produced in cooperation with the Tourism Development Division, Indiana Department of Commerce. 
The Keough Institute for Irish Studies Would like to invite everyone to attend a lecture... . 





Brian Dooley 
"BLACK & GREEN: CIVIL RIGHTS IN IRELAND AND AMERICA" 
Monday, September 27, 1999 
4:00 p.m. 118 DeBartolo Hall 
Brian Dooley has been Director of Communications for Ralph Nader's consumer organization Public Citizen since 1996. Before that, he was Head of Press at Amnesty International in London, where he worked for five years. At Amnesty, he ran the organization's media program and helped open Amnesty's first office in Northern Ireland. He has also worked as a foreign correspondent for the BBC in West Africa, and is author of Robert Kennedy: The Final Years (Edinburgh University Press 1995; St. Martin's Press, New York 1996) and Black and Green: The Fight for Civil Rights in Northern Ireland and Black America (Pluto, London & Chicago 1998). He writes regularly for the American, Irish and British press on American and Irish political issues. 
,.............9!1»------------IICP-1_$----•--..,.--......-•----•--.... .....__................ ......... .....-"lL____,..•-••-•----•w---,-•usus••--------•-~-•.-•--....,.
. 

I 
,f I 
f 
I 
t 

VIEWPOINT 

page 10 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. flox Q. Norre Dame. IN 46556 024 Souch Diniot, Hall. Nam Dom,. !N 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Michelle Krupa 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUS!NLSS MANAGER  
M. Shannon Ryan  David Rogero  
AssT. MAMGING EUITOR  
L:iu ra Perelle  

Niows EDITOR: Tim Logan VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughen SPORTS EDITOR: Brian Kessler 
SU:Nf EmTOR: Michael Vanega~ SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Dalum 
AoVER'f!SING MANAGfk: Bryan Luu 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: flret Huelat SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers WEil ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kushto 
CONTROLLER: Timothy Lane GRAPHICS Eunmc Joe Mueller 
CoNTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0"... " .......631 •747 I FAx............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................63 l-6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EonoR/Assr. ME............. ······631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE.......................................631-5313 NEWS........./...............................................63 l-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.. ...............................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinr. l@nd.edu SroRrs ........................................................ 631-4 543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEil ADMINISTRATORS .................63 l ·8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire at http://obseroer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from rhe Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up•m-the 
movies/music for 
weekly student reviews 
minute forecasts 
online reatures for spe­
advertise for policies 
and rates ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives ro search for 
about The Obsetver 
articles published after 
ro meet the editors and 
staff
August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial comenr is nor governed by policies of the administration of either insrirution. Acting as pub-­Ii.sher ofThe Observer, the administration ofthe Universiry ofNoue Dame du Lac prohibirs rhe adver­tisement ofalcohol and The Observer's acceptance of advertisements from specified types ofgroups. 
The news is reporred as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represenr the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief; Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and nut necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint sp-ace is available to all readm. The free expressiot1 ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Questions rrgarding Obm-wr polid,s should be di"ct• ,d to Editor in ChiefMic/Nlk Krupa, 

DILBERT 

THE WAVY PATTEP..N 
ON THE CARPET IS MAKING ME DIZZ'<. 
Friday, September 24, 1999 



+
' 
America's strength is in its diversity 
St. Matthew's Cathedral, the seat of the Archbishop of Washington, is my neighborhood church where I serve as a lector twice a month. Last Sunday, as I sat next to my fellow lector after communion, I could not help but think how we are the epitome of the odd couple. I am what television commentator John McLaughlin chides as a "Cafeteria Catholic," often ignoring Church dogma in favor of selective bits and pieces of my faith. My partner, on the other hand, accepts every Church teaching and is a conserva­tive political activist who has appeared on ABC's nationally broadcasted pro­gram "Politically Incorrect." 
Our director of lectors scheduled us together this year because we "bal­ance each other out" and "cannot intimidate each other." I often wonder if that assignment was in part political expediency or a comment on our behaviors while in church. I arrive at the cathedral in a jovial mood and crack jokes before Mass with the priests and other servers. In contrast, she isolates herself in a corner of the sacristy reading scripture and meditat­ing. 
While both of us are perfectionists who strive to perform flawlessly dur­ing Mass, she becomes disturbed over small issues, like a server diverting from the prescribed procession route. At times I leave church upset and frus­trated because my partner tries to force me to carry a song booklet dur­ing the procession or scolds me for not appreciating the readings as much as she does. I, in turn, frustrate her with my attitude and frequent response cit• ing my "Cafeteria Catholic" leanings. 

Our relationship and interaction, strained as it is at times, helps me appreciate diversity in our society. The intense frustration I feel after many Masses tempers my tendency towards intolerance. For a split second last Sunday during Mass, my mind raced in an attempt to logically translate these inconsistencies. Rather than analyze my dilemma, I drifted to Notre Dame. 
Thirty years ago when I was a fresh­man. Richard Nixon was president and only a handful of students were con­servative Republicans. Most students were opposed to the Vietnam war. A majority of students were Democrats. While the Notre Dame student body was predominately Catholic, politically it was more diverse than it is today. The Supreme Court's decision in Roe 
v. Wade would for a time push many Notre Dame Catholics to the conserva­tive side of the political spectrum. That is, until the birth of us "Cafeteria Catholics." 
I agree with former New York Governor Mario Cuomo's position on abortion. Elected Catholic officials should decide the abortion issue using their own consciences. If they want to represent their constituencies which may have a majority of citizens who support abortion, they should be free from Church interference to influence their consciences ... unless the Vatican is the political district being represent­ed. 
To me, the Church abdicated its abil­ity to lobby within the political system almost two decades ago when the pope decreed that none of the religious in the Church could hold public office. That internal policy decision made the Church dependent upon its lay follow­ers who are elected to public office. That decision also single-handedly decreased the Church's political influ­ence, politically split its members and led to the evolution of the so-called "Cafeteria Catholics." 
1 oppose school prayer and school vouchers, which absolutely infuriates my lector partner. As a product of the public school system, I attended sec­ond grade the year before the Supreme Court banned prayer in school. My Protestant teacher forced the entire class to recite the Lord's Prayer using "debts" and "debtors" instead of my Catholic faith's "tres­pass" arid "trespasses," which for this seven-year-old was almost devastat­ing. I would tightly close my eyes and attempt to tune out the words by repeatedly whispering "trespasses, trespasses·." 
As a result of experiencing that forced recitation for an entire year, I emphatically support the separation of church and state. In my opinion, as a formerly oppressed youth, I believe in absolute freedom of religion -regard­less of the weirdest of beliefs. More importantly, I believe that no public funds should be used to further any religious education. 
Granted, diversity within a religion is a bit more complex of an issue than diversity within a society. Permitting a "live and let live" philosophy in society is strictly a tolerance issue. Ignoring certain teachings, such as birth control or the interpretations of a religious hierarchy, becomes an issue of heresy in an atmosphere of right and wrong. Given the Catholic Church's history that includes the crusades and corrupt popes, maybe debate within our faith is better than blind acceptance. I will have to pose that question to my lector partner next Sunday and see which one of us is frustrated after Mass. 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame '73, is currently serving in President Clinton's administration as a congres­sional and public affairs director and worked at the U.S. House of Representatives for 17 years. His col­umn appears every other Friday, and his Internet address is Hottline@aol.com. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
SCOTT ADJ\JviS 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
I'D BETTER GO I'LL BE BACK HOME AND SLEEP TOMORROW UNLE5~ IT Off. ~LL THE 5LE.£P 
MAl<.Eo ME GROGQ,Y. 
"It's impossible to study on an empty stomach. " 
Garfield 
comic strip 
. ..a•-W w 

7 
'. 
I 


VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 
Friday, September 24, 1999 BSERVER page 11 
The Drive for Secular Prestige 
Suppose an aggrnssive lawyer uncovtwcd a d(\SCPndant or Clashmore Mike. Years ago. Miko, an Irish terrinr, was the masrol or tlw Notre l>anH' fonlball team. llis rep!accnwnl by a series ol' capPring lnp­rndmuns was unfair. Miko was tn•alPd lik(• a dog, But lw rnuld do nothing about it. Tlw last Mike has long sine•· gone to tlw big stadium in llw sky. But now his IH'irs may b(l a!Jhi to Sll<!k rndrnss. ThPy can rlaim that \'likn was u p!!rson and that he was illt!gally lirt~d lwcausc of' ;;pcci(:sism B discrimi­nation against persons or otlrnr spnrins, as racism is discrimina­tion against persons or otlH\r rucns. They could liml suµport for that viow at Ilarvard. l'rinc1\Lon and other "grout" univnrsities. 
Ilarvard. Ccorgetnwn and Northwestern Univnrsity law schools are offering cuurs11s on animal rights this fall. Adjunct profes­sor Stevnn Wise. who will teach the llarvard course. has comparnd the "legal thinghood or chimpanzoes" lo "the abomi­nation or human slavrn-y." Citing "scientific (Wid('nce or the trun nature of such nonhu­man animals as chimpanzelis," Wise argtws that "il is arbitrary and a breach of tlw l'undanwntal prindpln or (!quality to dPny lchirnpam.nesl tlwsP rights nwrPly b(!causn tlwy am not human beings." 
Princeton is !'urtlHir ahead. The nnw DeCamp l'rofossor or Bionthics at tlrn Univ1!rsity C:entPr for lluman ValuPs is l'etPr SingPr. tlw ,\ustralian critic of "speciesism" and fatlwr of tlrn animal rights movnnrnnl. SingN thinks that any "rational and sdr-conscious being" is a person. In his vinw chimpanzees are per­sons. as am apns. whalos. dolphins. dogs, cats. pigs. smds and bnars. Some human beings, how<wnr, including "nnwborn infants and sonw m1mtul defoclives." are not persons. "So it s111ims," concludes Singer. "that killing. say. a chimpanzee, is worsn than the killing of' a gravely defec­tivn human who is not a pnrson." Singer thinks that chickens might be persons. in which casn tlw grnat<1st mass murderer in history was not Adolf' lliller but Colonel Sanders. "Six million 1woplP died in con­cn1Jlralion camps," said Ingrid Newkirk of l'eopln for thn Ethical Trnatmnnt or Animals in I (J8h. "but six billion broiler chkkP11s will diP this ynar in slaughter­housns." In his book, Practical Ethics, which he assigns for his Princnton course. Singer said. "Killing a disablr,d infant is not morally equivalent to killing a person. Vnry ofton il is not wrong at all. When the death of a disabl11d infant will leitd to the birth of another infant with better prosp1icts or a happy life, the total amount of happiness will be greater if the disabled infant is killed. The loss of happy life for the first infant is outweighed by the gain of a happinr life l"qr the second." Singer is foaturnd at a prnstigious S(ipt. 25 confer­mien at tho Association ol' lhe Bar of the City of New York on "The Legal Status of Non-1 luman Animals." 
Acrorrling lo Catholic teaching, man has a s1'_1'ious duty to God, but not to llw ani­mals, to make a right use of animals with­out b('ing nut>l or inllicting needlnss pain. The move lo colll"t:r legal rights on animals llwmsnlvPs, hownver. is based on a deuial of' th!' spcrial naturn of th1• human pm-son. SingPr suys that "w11 cun no longer base our «•thics 011 tlw idea that human bnings am a special l'orm or creation. madB in th<' image or c;od, singled out l'rom all other animals, nnd alone possessing an immor­tal soul." Ile treats "nthies us cntirnly indn1wmln11t ol' rnligion." Tlw secularist and rnlativist prPmis1!s on which he opnr­at(!S and whicli h(: carries Lo their logical conclusion, havn dncisivnly inllucnccd Anwrkan :u·admnics and jurisprudenrn for most of this cnnlllry. Thal culture has lost sight. of the human person as a unique creation of body and spirit in the image and likeness of' God. "[W]hen the sense of' God is lost." said John Paul II. "there is also a t(indcncy to lose the sense of man, 


of his dignity and his life.'' Singnr is the 
poster boy of that pagan culture of d!mth. 
The intclloctuul and moral bankruptcy 
implicit in the advocacy of animal rights 
ought to cause our leadors to ponder t.lie 
wisdom or using those "great" secular 
u11ivorsitics as models for Notre Dame. 
Tlrn traditional mission of Notre Damn 
was primarily undergraduat11 educalion 
in the Catholic tradition, with graduate· 
studies and research playing an impor­
tant but complementary role. In 1978, 
however. Notre name began to rleGne 
itself as a "research univorsitv." Tho 
objective was admission to the club of the 
monied and prestigious univflrsities. 
"We think wc'ni capable of operating in 
thn same world as the Ivys, Stanford, 
Vanderbilt, Duke, Southern Cal and Northwestern," said Notre Dame's presi­dent. Father Malloy, at the I99:~ meeting 
of the trustees at the Ritz-Carlton Hotel in Manalapan, Fla. 
I do not intend to minimize the impor­tance of research, especially in the sci­ences. And our leaders act entirely in what tlrny sec as the best interest of Notre Dame. But what results from their effort lo, pardon the expression, "ape" the Ivy League, is the devaluation of undergradu­ate education and the imposition of uncon­scionable loan burdens on non-wealthy students tg finance the drive for research prestige. In 1978-79, ·Notre Dame tuition.­room and board totaled $5,180. Adjusted for the Consumer Price Index, that total for 1999-2000would be $13,650. In 1999­2000, the figure increased 5.4 7 percent over the previous year, almost double the inflation ratn, for a total of$27,600, more than twice. in real money, what students paid in I978-79. In terms of teaching and of variety and accessibility of courses, no one can reasonably claim that the quality of undergraduate education at Notre Dame is more than twice what it was two decades ago. Notre Dame makes a com­mendable e!Tort to provide financial aid. As estimated for 1999-2000, 2,500 stu­dents will receive Universitv aid, with the average aid at $9,200. red~cing their average bill to $18,400. But for non­wealthy students, the primary form or financial aid remains the student loan. 
The drive for secular pi'estige has affect­nd 1\lotre Dame in various ways. The endowment has taken on a life of its own, with only marginal impact on student costs. And subject lo release of this year's figure, 1986-87 was the last year in which a majority of newly hired faculty was Catholic. The campus, like the "great" uni­versities, is now crowded with monuments to the ability of our striving leaders lo raise and spend money. The renovated Main Building is one example. Another is the upscale new bookstore, which remains open for 11 hours on Sunday in testimony to the relative emphasis placed on the maximization or profit and the observance of the Lord's Day. In these and other ways, Notre Dame is paying a price for its drive to be counttid among the "great" uniwffsi­li.es. 
These comments aro prompted by con­versations with law students whose career and family oplions are constricted by loans in the $100-150,000 range. It is no consolation that this burden results from · Urn efl'urt ur our leaders, perhaps in a working out of the old Catholic inferiority complex, to emufate institutions where it is seriously in question whether there is an ii1trinsic diffen~nce b!itween a chicken and a philosophy professor. Clashmore Mike, who did not go to any of those places, knew the differnnce. 
Professor nice is on tllf' law school facul­ty. !lis column appears el!er.lJ other Friday. 
The riews expr<'ssed in this column are those q{ lhe author and not necessarily 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

The dysfunctional Notre Dame Family 
As I read Thursday's Observer, I could not holp noticing two pieces that exemplify the craziness and hypocrisy of' some of tlw people at this University. On page one there was an update on the current GALNObserver controversy and how the response from the president was unsatisfactory (what a surpriseI and pathetic (another stunner!. 
Th~m. on page 19, wu have Campus Considerations asking the quBstion "What arc we building here?" and inspiring students to become involved in 
a. service project over fall break to help some poor peoplfl in Appalachia fix up their houses and schools and other nice things, sort of a little contribu­tion towards the salvalion of the world. What a contrast between the two stories, and all taking place within thfl same "Notro Dame Family." What indeed arc we building here? 
Ilow can we inspire students LO do the little stuff when the University as a whole is failing so miserably with this issue? Gay, straight, black, white, we arc all children of God and we should embrace our brothers and sisters, all or them. Come on people, do you honestly think that if Jesus were walking around today he would approve of such conrluct? 
Herc is my plug for a fall break service project. Start voicing some disap­proval for the way the University is treating GALA, get mad about this. 
THIS is social injustice. Contact the group and find out how you can assist them in thPir current dispute. And Monk, hem is your fall service project: Please allow The Observer to print the GALA mission statement -you know, that inflammatory propaganda that will probably, upon reading. make us all have to go to confession. Yeah, right. Until we get past this abominable behavior towards GALA, we are nothing more than a dysfunc­tional family. And all you folks going to Appalachia, good for you! Don't, however, pat yourselves too hard on the back. Your work is not yet over. 
Julie Wilberding, Ph.D Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry September 23, 1999 

A few suggestions for an alumnus 
I would like to respond to the letter printed in Viewpoint on Wednesday, written by our "expert college campus and student body critic" alumnus, Mark Ellsworth. There are a few things I want him to know. 
He complain that our sidewalks overwhelm him. I want to tell him about the city streets that run through almost all of the college campuses I visited back in my home state. 
He thinks the location of the bookstore is too distant for geographic singu­larity. I want to tell him about the bookstores of some schools that were built in different zip codes. The University is building too much, too fast, right big guy? I want to tell him about other universities that ran out of space decades ago but don't have the funds to construct any new buildings anyway. 
Can't find his way around campus because he can't see the Dome? I want to tell him that some universities have buildings so high his upturned nose would bleed! 
The student body shouldn't care or feel powerfully about OUH team'! I want to tell him about other schools' student bodies. Specifically the ones that have "lightened up" so much, they MIGHT show up at halftime for their games. 
And according to him, we allow any high school graduate with shoulder pads to play on our squad. Well, I want to remind him of a former lfoisman candidate who was, once upon a time. supposed to play for our team. But we didn't allow him to. If he's having trouble remembering this individual, he should ask that "buddy" of his. The two of them might have hung out together in their well utilized spare time and talked about our school's stan­dards. 
I want to tell you about a gentleman who lives upstairs from me. The one who excels at computer engineering, manners, common courtesy and play­ing tight end on weekends during the fall. All with more pride than you should ever have. (Note: I live ON campus.} 
Gee, Mark. Your buddy was just "doing what regular adults do across the United States." Shame on law-abiding Bill Kirk! I want to remind you, although it might be fun for you and/or your hippie friends, sm9king pot is still illegal in the United States -unless, of course, a doctor has prnscribnd it to you for your inability to see. These are just a few of the things I want to tell you. 
Despite my criticism. I urge you to come back for a visit -MANY years from now. Oh, and Mr. Ellsworth? Please don't stay around here for any more extra days. Instead, be sure you stay home an extra day to pull your head out of the clouds before you come back. · 
Ryan LaMonica Junior Dillon llall September 22, 1999 
FP41l!"Ji 


r\J".HE 
page 12 v~SERVER Friday, September 24, 1999 
Fall TV is chip off 
By TRICIA McHALE Scene Writer 
T 
elevision is about money. All major networks have an agenda. used to enti.ce viewers by whatever means necessary, so that they can be exposed to eight to 20 minutes of commercials during which they are persuaded to buy a variety of prod­ucl5. 
It is particularly important to note this fact because it is the money of the youth of America that these manufactur­ers want. The 18-to 49-year old demographic is the most influential in the marketplacP. Because of this. networks stick to what works, what has made them money in the past. They will not make sudden changes to the lineups. 
TI1is season is no exception, for this is the year of spin­offs and rip-offs. If one night the question arises. "I think I've seen this one." know there are no real mistakes being made by you, the viewer. 
The popularity of such shows as ''Felicity," "Dawson's Creek" and "Party of Five" among younger audiences has helped spawn an entire lineup of teen angst dramas. Similarly, "Ally McBeal" -inspired programs, complete with voice-overs and various imagined scenarios, have been reproduced. the only difference being the names and nwnber of characters. 
If a new television show premiering this fall does not fit into one of these classifications, then it is less of a testa­ment to the integrity of the creator than it is to the poor taste of network executives for adding it to the schedule. These category-less shows are generic sitcoms or family dramas with very little substance which most likely will not reach mid-season. The following is a breakdown of these at times monotonous, though partially entertaining shows. 
Sunday 
New Programs: Fresh from his multiple-Emmy wins, David Kelley has developed a new crinle-comedy hour entitled "Snoops" (ABC). The show follows a group of women who take an unconventional approach to private investigation in a '90s update of "Charlie's Angels." 
Opposite the show is the new romantic drama "Jack and Jill" on the WB network. Two 20-somethings struggle to find themselves and each other in this fatalistic tale set in · New York City. The young cast includes Sinlon Rex, the former M1V VJ making a transition into acting as he plays a neighborhood bartender and friend. 
In another new drama set in New York, NBC makes an attempt to capitalize on the success of"ER" by introducing "The Third Watch" by the same producers. The new drama follows the lives of paramedics, firefighters and police officers and their civil service on the streets of the Big Apple. 

Returning Programs: Fox's Sunday-night lineup will not change this fall due to the success they have had with it in the past. The three animated series "King of the Hill," "The Simpsons" and "Futurama" will precede the popular science fiction drama "The X-Files." However, the sci-ti drama will not premiere until Nov. 7, after the World Series. 
This has been Fox's tactic for the last several seasons, and it has proven successful with mor-e and more loyal viewers returning later in the season. This year's season opener will continue with the apparent discovery of an alien spaceship in Africa by Agent Scully and the mysteri­ous menial illness of Agent Mulder that befell him late last year. 
The WB hopes to create a powerhouse on Sunday nights by situating "Felicity" right before the new "Jack and Jill." The season opener will answer the question. "Who did Felicity choose, Ben or Noel?" 
"The Practice" will also return to ABC, putting two David Kelley dramas -the other being "Snoops" -back to back. 
Monday 

New Programs: Among the new programming offered Monday are several spin-offs of already popular shows that have established a solid audience. Networks want to extend their viewership by removing the popular char­acters and giving them shows of their own. 
"Law and Order: Special Victims Unit" (NBC) will deal with the more brutal cases of its predecessor. "The Parkers" (WB) will focus on Moesha's (of "Moesha") eccentric friend and her mother as thev simul­taneously enroll in college, while "Time of Your Life" (Fox) will find Jennifer Love Hewitt in New York searching for her biologi­cal father after her split from the Salingers of "Party of Five." 
Other shows making an appearance Monday are a "7th Heaven" -type family drama entitled "Safe Harbor" (WB) and "Grownups" (UPN), a sitcom whose only "appealing" factor is the intrigue of seeing a grown-up Jaleel White (Urkel of "Family Matters") act in a normal role with normal fitting clothes. 
"Ladies Man" (CBS) debuts as a weak­premised comedy about a man who lives with an extended family of females. "Family Law" (CBS), a legal drama about a divorcee who attempts to reclaim her practice from her ex-husband and ex-part­ner, will also premiere Monday. 
Returning Programs: Once again, many of the same faces, however made-over they may be, will return. Among them, "Suddenly Susan" (NBC) with Brooke Shields and an entirely new premise and "Veronica's Ooset" (NBC) with a blond Kirstie Alley. "Ally McBeal" will also return to Fox as she struggles with her inner demons and short skirts. 
Tuesday 

New Programs: A random array of programming will call Tuesday home, for the time being anyway. "Once and Again" (ABC), a series about single parents who meet, fall in love and pursue a relationship despite interference from friends and family, will premiere. "Shasta McNasty" (UPN) is a 
Photo courtesy of the WB 
Katie Holmes, who plays Joey in "Dawson's Creek," returns to the WB on Wednesday nights. 


A!,HE 
Friday, September 24, 1999 vt>SERVER page 13 
ast season's block 

nuw buddy comudy set in Venice Beach, while "The Strip" (UPN), another cop-turned-security-consultant show, will follow the adventures of one man in Las Vegas as he works for a casino owner. 
"Judging Amy" (CBS) is a drama about a single career­mom who mow~s back in with her family in New England. Thnir dysfunction and her new job will be lhe focus of the plot. Sound familiar? Think "Providence," but three days earlier. "The Mike O'Malley Show" (NBC) will also pre­miere Tuesday evening, exploring the misadventures of a man shaken by the marriage of his best friend and the. return of an ex-girlfriend. 
Finally. ''Angel" (WB). the popular character from "Buffy. the Vampire Slayer," will move to L.A., along with another ex-cast member, Cordelia, now a struggling 
actress, to fight evil in the backstreets of 

Returning Programs: A dozen sitcoms and dramas will be returning for the popular night of programming. Among them are "Just Shoot Me," "Spin City," "3rd Rock from the Sun" and "Buffy," sans Angel and Cordelia, as explained above. "Party of Five" also moves to Tuesday. 
Wednesday 

New Programs: lt has been described as 'The X-Files" meets "My So-Called Lifo." "Roswell" (WB) will add the ever-popular teen angst component to the science fiction genre to create something completely original. In the first episode, Max, along with his sister and friend, are discov­ered to be orphaned aliens from the alleged 1947 Roswell crash. His new friend Liz, as well as the rest of the towns­folk, become suspicious as various oddities begin to unfold. Other dramas airing on Wednesday are "The West Wing" (NBC). about a noble president and his equally dedicated staff, and "Get Real" 01ox) an hour-long comedy-drama taking the old timeslot and basic concept of "Party of Five," but funnier and with 
Returning Programs: Returning series include "The Drew Carey Show" (ABC). "Beverly Hills, 90210" (Fox), "Law and Order" (NBC) and "Dawson's Creek" (WB). In the lat­ter, the kids continue to struggle with "typi­
cal problems facing typical teens." 
Thursday 
New Programs: In an attempt to steal away the rapidly diminishing audience of Must-See T.V., rival networks are introducing some unconventional J programs to their lineups. "Action" (Fox). the most unique new show of the season, follows a cut-throat movie producer and cynically examines the poli­tics of Hollywood. The raw style of the series has already raised some controversy 
and may backfire on the network if the public cannot relate to the satirical look at the entertainment industry. 
"WWF Smackdown!" on UPN will explore the vicious rivalries of the World Wrestling Federation on network televi­sion. · 
"Manchester Prep" (Fox), "Wasteland" (ABC) and "Popular" (WB), all of which are centered around a group of young acquaintances, are three more attempts to lure audiences away from the tradi­tional Thursday-night staple, "Friends." 
However, NBC, in a relatively futile effort to restore power to its lineup, is adding another sitcom, "Stark Raving Mad," between "Frasier" and "ER." The show stars Neil Patrick Harris of "Doogie Howser, M.D." fame as the P.ditor of an eccentric horror-writer. 
Returning Programs: These include the usual suspects: "Friends," "Jesse," "Frasier" and "ER," on NBC, and "Chicago Hope" on CBS. In the season opener of "Friends," the cliff-hanger that ended with the Monica/Chandler and Rachel/Ross weddings will suppos­edly be resolved. 
Friday 

New Programs: This is the second most dillicult night to program, after Saturday, because traditionally it is not a popular night to watr.h television. However, the networks are attempting it regardless. 
"Now and Again," (CBS) about the mind of a family man being relocated into the bio-engineered body of a would­be superhero, is another science fiction-inspired show that will most likely find its audience among the those who take the time to comprehend its involved concept. 
The same can be said for "Harsh Realm" (Fox). from the creator of "The X-Files," a series about a young soldier who is trapped in a virtual reality game during an experi­mental trial. 
Two other shows, "Mission Hill," (WB) another look at young friends but this time with animation, and "Love and Money" (CBS), about a socialite who falls for a blue-collar superintendent, will air Friday night. "Odd Man Out" is the latest addition to ABC's TGIF arsenal, though surprisingly it does not star the Olsen twins. On NBC, "Cold Feet" deals with three couples at various stages of a relationship, while "The Badlands" (Fox) follows a 19-year old cop who faces the harshness of reality on the streets of Philadelphia. 
Returning Programs: The rest of Friday evening is filled with various sitcoms, specials and newsmagazines like "20/20" (ABC) and "Dateline" (NBC). which tend to get the highest overall ratings. 
Saturday 

New Programs: It is practically suicide to program any­thing on a Saturday night. Only NBC feels confident enough about "Freaks and Geeks," a comedy-drama about the outcasts in a 1980 Michigan high school, to premiere it here. 
Returning Programs: Saturday night is the one night of the week where the programming is geared toward older audiences with shows like "Early Edition," "Walker, Texas Ranger" (both on CBS) and "Profiler" (NBC), all of which beat last year's odds and made it back for another season. The return of these programs demonstrates that ultimate­ly, it is up to you, the viewer, to determine which of this year's hopefuls will be back in the fall of 2000. 
. ... 
_,.,,. 
Photo courtesy of Fox 

"The Simpsons" returns to Fox with its season premiere this Sunday. 
B s 
page 14 Friday, September 24, 1999

BOOK REVIEW 

Fantasy creates child cult phenomenon 
By LAURA PETELLE A•sisranr Managin11, Editor 
Do you remember the first book that ~nade you believe in ~01;ie­thing that you knew co_uldn't be true! D? you remember _leelmg the backs of closets. hopmg that maybe, Just maybe, you d find Narnia this time? Do you remember lying awake on dark and stormy nights, just certain that Mrs. Whatsit was lurking outside? Do yo~1. remember looking at rabbit holes. wondering what would happen ,I you fell down them'' Well, get ready to be convinced that there's a platform 9 3/4 at King's Cross station in London; Welcome to the wonderful world of llarrv Potter. Who is Harrv Potter? You'd havo to live in bubble to have missed this one. He's been on the cover of Time, he's holding three spots on the New York Times bestseller list and he's one of the most-talked about men in the country righl now. Well, who is Harry Potter? Harry Potter is your ordinary 13-year­old, except he's a third-year student at the Hogwart's School of Wizardry. He's the main l:haracter in the best-selling ~ooks by .I .K. Rowling, books which are written for young adult aud1Mces. the 9­to 12-year-old range, 
But these aren't easy"Harry Potter and the reads. At 300-plus pages each, they'rePrisoner of Azkaban" hefty books. The lan­guage doesn't talk down. They're written in the best traditions of children's fantastical lit­erature, like C.S. 

out offive shamrocks 
Lewis's Chronicles of Narnia, Lewis Carroll's "Alice in Wonderland"
Author: J.K. Bowling 
and Madeline L'Engle's 
. "A Wrinkle in Time." Rowling's books follow the same idea -an absolutely ordinary child is suddenly whisked away into a magical world where adventure abounds. 
Harry Potter is an orphan who is forced by his Muggle (non-magi­cal) uncle and aunt, Vernon and Petunia Oursley, to sleep in a cup­board under the staircase. Little does Harry know that his parents were not actuallv killed in a car accidtmt and that the lightening-bolt shaped scar on his forehead was not from that same accident -in actuality, Harry's wizard parents were killed by Lord Voldemort, an evil wizard so powerful he's called "He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named" because wizards fear to speak his name. After killing Harry's par­ents, Voldemort turned on Harry but was unable to kill him. The dis­tinctive scar is a result of that confrontation, where somehow baby ,Harrv broke Voldemort's power, sending him into hiding. 
Ha~ry wakes up on his 11th birthday to find a delivery from a magical owl. Before he knows it, Harry is whisked off to Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and \-Vizardry, where he is something of a celebrity pupil. having defeated Lord Voldemort while just a baby. The only way to get to Hogwarts is to board a train at the invisible platform 9 3/4 at King's Cross station in London. At Hogwarts, Harry enters a whole new world where he needs a wand for class and takes classes such as "Potions" with the odious Professor Snape and "Defense Against the Dark Arts," where no professor lasts more than a year. 
Harry is sorted by the Sorting Hat into Gryffindor, a dorm whose resident ghost is Nearly-Headless Nick. Harry learns to play quid-Harrv is secretly learning to cast a patronus to protect himself from the dementors,ditch, a sport which involves seven wizards mounted on flying brooms and four balls and flagrid, the kindly groundskeeper who befriended Harry, is trying to save a hip­of varying sizes, Quidditch is to Hogwarts what football _is to Notre Dame, a~d pogriff from death. Also, Ron's pet rat, Scabbers, is looking less and less healthy, aHarry's talent at the position of seeker earns him a certam amount of respect m fact which Ron blames on Hermoine and her new cat.

Hogwarts. 

Harry. Ron and Hermoine decide to take on Sirius Black themsel~es: when s~d.den­
In the latest installment in the series, "Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban," ly everything they thought they knew is ripped out from under thmr feet, an_d 1t s up
Harry is about to begin his third year at Hogwarts with his good friends Ron 
to llarry and Hermoine (Ron having been knocked out cold} to save two mnocentWeasley, the sixth of seven wizard children in a poor. family, and Hermione Granger, 
lives.
the brilliant, Muggle-born know-it-all. 

Sound complicated? It is. But it's also engrossing. 
This year, I!arry, Ron and Hermoine get to start taking elective subjects like Howling's own story is passing into legend. She was divorced, unemployed and li_v­Divination, Arithmancy and Muggle Studies, in addition to the ongoing core classes ing on public assistance in Edinburgh with her infant daughter when s~1e be~an wn~:like Potions and Defense Against the Dark Arts. · ing "Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone" -the first book m th~ senes ~. 111 a ~aleBut Harry's year gets off to an inauspicious start. Ile spends summer? _at home during her daughter's naps. She received a grant from the Scottish Arts Council towith the Oursleys, and at the end of the summer, Aunt Marge comes to v1s1t. H~r:y finish the book, then sold it to Bloomsbury in the U.K. and Scholastic Books in thepromises Uncle Vernon that he'll behave (tho Dursleys refuse to allow any magic 1_n U.S. "Sorcerer's stone" has since won a few awards and the book rights have beentheir house), but when Marge begins to attack Harry's dead parents, Harry loses his sold in 11 countries.
tl'mper and casts a swelling spell. then runs away from the Dursleys. . . 
The books themselves fly off the shelves. "Azkaban" was released at J:45 p.m. inTerrified that he's going to be expelled for breakmg the Decree for the Restnct1011 the U.K. because of fears that students would skip school to get the book. In less thanof Underage Wizardry (especially after that flying car incident of the previous year), two weeks after its July 8 release in Britain, "Azkaban" went through IO printingsHarry is rescued from the streets of Little Winging by the Knight flus, emergency and sold 270,000 copies. 
transport for stranded w.itches and wizards. . . 
In the U.S., many fans went to amazon.co.uk and paid the overseas shipping rateWhen Cornelius Fudge. the Minister of Magic, finally catches up with Harry m to get the book before its U.S. release date of Sept. 8. The next book will be releasedDiagon Alley (a magical street in London), he doesn't expel Harry but_ rather ~e~ms in 13ritain and the U.S. simultaneously, in part because Scholasti.c lost sales toglad to see him. As llarry later finds out, Sirius. Black, a harde~ed wizard cru:iunal Bloomsburv when U.S. customers resorted to the Internet to buy the book early. 
and minion ol' Lord Voldemort. had escaped from Azkaban fortress, the wizard ll' you haven't read a Harry Potter book yet, you're not just missing 1!ut on a gr_eatprison, and is after llarry, llarry is hurried off to Hogwarts and the watchful eye of read but a cultural phMomenon. This reviewer must confess that she nppcd the firstthe headmaster, Professor Albus Dumbledore. Black is so dangerous that llogwarts . 
two out of her 10-ycar-old brother's hands and read them both in one sittin~. andis being guarded by dementors, the legendary guardians ofAzkaban, who aro a dan­that she went out and bought the third one on its release date, then stayed up far too ger not only to Black but to the students at IIogwarts as wel). . .. 
late reading it and was tired and cranky in class the next day. She must also confessAs the story goes on and becomes more complex. Harry discovers that 1t was Smus that she almost cried at the ending of' the third one because it was so nice for Harry.
Black. his father's btlst friend, who betrayed his pa.rents to Voldemort. Meanwhile, And if you're still not a convert, listen to Michael, the aforementioned 10-year-oldGryffindor is desperate to win the quidditch cup from Slytherin (another dorml, brother of this reviewer: "Harry Potter is awesome." 

,... .-::,0 

Friday, September 24, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Belle's homer leads Orioles in split with A's 
Associated rrcss 
BALTIMOHE 

Albr,rt Belle hit four doubles and Derrick May hornernd in a fivH-run founh inning as the Baltimori• Oriolns bnat the Oakland Athletics 12-4 Thursduy night lo gain a split or tlwir doublolwad!'r. 
In tlw O(H!ncr, Miguel Tcja<lu hit tlrn last of Oakland's four honw runs, a litibreaking shot in the dghth inning, and tlw A's endod tlw Orioles' t :{-ganrn winning slrnak with a 9-6 victo­ry. 
Mall Stain, and Bandy V1dard1: lionHT1·d in tlw nigh l­eap for thi• A's, who nrnvucl within 4 tr~ games of Boston in tlw AL wild-rard racti. Toronto bnat tlm HPd Sox 7-5. 
Stairs, B1•n Gripvc and MikP Mad'arlann homered i11 thn op<mN for Oakland. 
T.J. Mathews 19-4) worked I ;u:{ innings for Oakland and Jason lsringhausim got thrnn outs for his s1w1111Lh save. 
Oakland's BrnU Luxlon, recalltid l"rom TriplP-A Vuncouv1ir bnf"ore llrn game, allowml tlmic 11ar1wd runs and seven hits in 4 2/3 innings. 
Baltimurn starter Sidney Ponson gavo up six runs on 10 hits in 4 2/3 innings. 
Blue Jays 7, Red Sox 5 
Tony Batista hit a two-run double in the ninth inning as the Torun to Blue Jays rallied from a one-run deficit lo beat the Boston Hed Sox. 
Nomar Garciaparra hit a two­run homor, tlrnn outran a dou­ble-play relay lo drive in anoth­r-ir run in the sev1mth inning and give Boston a 6-5 lead. 
BuL l{od Beck (0-1 l came on to star1 Urn ninth for the Heel Sox and gav1! up two singles bnforn Batista doubled to right­cP 11 te r, scoring llonrnr Bush and Willie Gro,me. 
llriai1 McHae addncl an HHl groundout to mako it 7-5 and make a win11er of David Wells 
115-10). 
The !led Sox took a 4-2 lead with a p,air of two-run homers in the l'ourth. Jason Varitek led off with a single to tic it before Carciaparra homered, then Mike Stanley singlnd and scored 011 Butch lluskey's homer. 
Tigers 7, Indians 5 
Tony Clark and Juan Encarnacion each bad two HBls to help the Detroit Tigers beat Cleveland and earn a split of their four-game series with the Indians. 

Roberto Alomar, Travis Fryman, Wil Cordero and Jim Thome homered for the Indians. 
Charles Nagy (17-10), seeking a earner-best 18th win, gave up six runs on l O hits with four walks and four strikeouts in five-plus innings. It was Nagy's first loss in five decisions. 
Blair (3-111. making his sixth start. gave up four runs on four hits with four walks and six striknouts in 6 1-3 innings to win his second game this month. 
Todd Jones allowed Thome's 33rd homer leading off the ninth, but got the final three outs to earn his 26th save in 31 opportunities. 
The Indians, who clinched the AL Central title on Sept. 8, jumped on Blair for two runs in he first as Kenny Lofton started the game with. a double and scored on Alomar's 24th homer, a shot into the second deck in left. 
Fryman, who hadn't homered since June 1, made it 3-0 with a two-out solo shot in the second. 
Detroit closed to 3-1 in the third when Clark singled home Deivi Cruz, who had doubled, It was the Tigers' first earned run since Monday. 
The Tigers took a 5-3 lead with a four-run fifth. Brad Ausmus doubled and scored on Clark's RBI single, After a two­out walk to .Damion Easley. Encarnacion hit a two-run dou­ble and Gabe Kapler's RBI sin­gle scored Encarnacion. 
Cruz doubled again in the sixth and scored on Luis Pol.onia's doubl.e for a 6-3 lead, and David Hiske relieved Nagy. 
Cordero cut it to 6-4 with his ninth homer leading off the sev­enth. 
Hut Kamera Bartee hit a pinch-hit triple in the eighth and scored oo Polonia's sacri­fice tly to make it 7-4. 
Yankees 5, White Sox 2 
Roger Clemens won consecu­tive starts for the first time in nearly three months and Tino Martinez hit a two-run homer as the Now York Yankees clinched no worse than a tie for 
a  playoff berth with  a  win  
Thursday  night  over  the  
Chicago White Sox.  

The Yankees, who have won eight of nine since a four-game losing streak, need one more win or an Oakland loss to make 

the postseason for the fifth straight year. 
Mariano Rivera pitched the ninth for his 43rd save in 47 chances, Rivera has not allowed a run in his last 24 appearances (25 2-3 innings) and has con­verted 20 straight save oppor­tunities. 
The Yankees jumped out to a 4-0 lead against Jim Parque (9­14), who lost his eighth straight decision. Parquc allowed four runs and seven hits in five innings and hasn't won in 13 starts since July 7 against Kansas City. 
Jeter doubled with one out in the first and scored on Williams' single, Paul O'Neill added an HBI single in the sec­ond and Martinez hit his 26th homer in the third. 
The White Sox scored two in the fifth on RBr singles by Rrian Simmons and Greg Norton to make. it 4-2. With runners on second and third and one out, Clemens came back to strike out Ray Durham and Darrin Jackson. 
Scott Brosius, starting for the first time since leaving the Yankees on Sept. 13 for his father's funeral, went 2-for-3 with an HBI single in the sev­enth. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES SKYDIVE!! Try the ULTIMATE RUSH Training sludents to, over 30 years 1 hour North of South Bend Call tor class times GAEAT LAKES SKYDIVERS 1-800-351-6617 THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center PHONE 631-COPY www.CopyShopND.com Store Hours Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midmght Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm Sat: Noon-6:00pm Sun: Noon-Midnight  FREE TRIPS AND CASH!!' SPRING BREAK 2000StudentCity.com is looking for Highly Motivated Students to pro­mote Spring Break 2000! Organize a small group and travel FREE!!Top campus reps can eam a Free Trip & over $10.000!Choose Cancun, Jamaica or Nassau! Book Trips On-Line. Log In and win FREE stuff. Sign Up Now On Line! www.StudentCity.com or 800/293-1443 Love animals? Landlord won't let you have a pet? Get your animal fix by volunteering at Pet Refuge. The refuge is looking for volunteers to help feed and care for dogs and cats. Call 256-0886 for more information.  3-bdrm duplex, remodeled, 503 Eddy, 1 mi. from campus. Appliances, W/D. 273-8332. 5 bedroom house prime locatfon 105 Marquette Ave Available now 232-6964 FOR SALE Spring Break Specials!Bahamas Party Cruise 5 Days $279! Includes Meals!Awesome Beaches,Nighllife!Cancun & Jamaica 7 Nights From $399! Florida $129!springbreaktravel.com 1·800-678-6386 FOR SALE N.O. FOOTBALL TIX CALL 271-9412  I need tickets for USC or Arizona State. Call Joel @ 4-3246. WANTED NOTRE DAME FOOT­BALL TICKETS 271-1526 SELL & BUY GA FOOTBALL TICK­ETS 277-6619 WANTED· ND football tix. AM -232-2378 PM -288-2726 ND football tix for sale. AM • 232·2378 PM -288-2726 I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME GAMES.2726551 BUYING and SELLING N D FOOT·  WANTED! 2 pairs of lix and Joyce/Stadium parking pass for . ASU. Call Alex Boyle@ 800·221· 7676 M-F 9-5 NEED 8 OKLAHOMA TIX sets of 4 or more wanted TOP$Paid Colin x1627 Need 4 Okla GAs Eric 243-334 7 Need Oklahoma and ASU GAs. Call Michelle: 631-4542 or 233­9037. FOR SALE ND FOOTBALL TICK­ETS. Navy $55 each, ASU $65 each, BCU $60each.Call 289-8048. PERSONAL  HAPPY 21ST KELLEY OLIVATO E formerly Mary, Heather, and other false names! Have a blast. Love, Rockin' Sorority. Hippity-hop, hippity-hop. I'm off to campus media! Hey Jennie, Thanks for being my Omamma.O I know you hate it when I call you that. I promise to stop. OK, mamma? Oops. Old habits are hard to break. Hi, my name is Daisy and I look sweet upon a seat of a bicycle built for two. How bout it? I don't care if it's not a stylish mar­riage. Who needs a carraige these days, anyway? Just me, you and the tandem.  
WANTED STUDENT OPENINGS 5·30 hrs./week. Flex. around classes. Scholarships avail. www.workforstudents.com/IN 282-2357 Sprmg Break '00 Cancun.Mazatlan or Jamaica From $399 Reps wanted' Sell 15 and travel free! LOWEST PRICES GUARAN­TEED!!! lnfo:Call 1-800·446·8355 www.sunbreaks.com DON'T WORK THIS SCHOOL YEAR! $1200 TO $2000 THIS MONTH Part time 4 to 6 hours per week Call 24 hrs (219) 239·6709 Help wanted at 4 Michiana loca• lions. Great pay, flex. hrs No Sundays. Apply in parson or send resume to: FRULLA Tl CAFE/UP MALL 6501 N. GRAPE RD. #576 MISHAWAKA, IN 46545 SPORTS CLUBS & STUDENT GROUPS-Earn $1000-2000 with easy CIS Fund eventNo sales required.Fund Rasier days are lilling up, so call today.Contac1 Joe @ 1-888-522­4350. Loving ND-SMC couple wishes to adopt. Will provide a lifetime of laughter,love,devotion and opportu­nities. 800-484-4699 code 0019  2 Babysitters (preferably friends) for evening of Oct 8 and during day of Oct.9 (during ASU game) for 3 year old and 9 mo. old. Must have some expenence and be energetic. Good pay Call Linda at 937-294-4857. HEAVENLY HAM Immediate Openings for Energetic Individuals. Store Work Hours: M-F 7:30 to 5:30 Sat: 8:00 to 2:30 No Sundays Will schedule work around class­es.Apply at 2307 Edison. 288-4267 FOR RENT ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE HOME FOR ND-SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS 243-0658. HOMES CI.OSE TO CAMPUS http://mmmrenlals.homepage.com/ 232-2595 THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths. $80· $115. Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road Exit #107, 1­800-418-9487. LOADED 6 Bedrm '00-01 yr 273-0482 I 234-3831 BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153  FOR SALE N.O. FOOTBALL TIX CALL 271-9412 LAKEFRONT BY OWNER. 3 bdrm. ranch, lg den, 2 car gar., full base• ment. 3 seas. porch, deck. most ev. new, much more. 15 mi. from cam­pus. 616-663·6308. Phone Cards, 669 min/$20 243-9361 or 258-4805 MAC 520 LAPTOP Y2K COMP. SELDOM USED $375. APPLE STYLE· WAITER PRINTER $75. 287-7928 Ordinary looking sunglasses with unique feature: Built in, undetectable, "REAR VIEW MIRRORS"! View everything behind you without anyone knowing you can.Bicyclist.Beach Combers.Kool Dudes.send: $11.75 To: J.R.T. P.O. Box 1066 Laurel, MD 20725 PRO-SPORT 5 POSITION SLANT BENCH Like New $30.00 Call Craig@ 246-1410 TICKETS Wanted: 2 ND vs. USC GA tix. Call Autumn @ 284-5024.  BALL TICKETS. GREAT PRICES. CALL 289-8048 +++++++++++++++++++++++++++ N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS BUY/SELUTRADE ALL GAMES ALL LOCATIONS GREAT PRICES 271-9330 !!NO STUDENT TICKETS!! TICKETMART INC. www.ndtickets.com +++++++++++++++++++++++++++ FOR SALE N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS CALL 271-9412 SPRING BREAK 2000 "THE MILLENIUM" BIG IRISH CATHOLIC FAMILYINEEO 16 G.A. TIX FOR USC GAMEICALL DAVE @ 773­281-7690 OR 610-971·2295 WITH ANY TIXTHANKS. WANTED:USCTIX 247-1659 Need tix for Navy. Buy/trade. Call 251-0001 · Andy. NEED: Oklahoma tickets for family. x2795-John Need 3 use tickets Please call Tom 634-1440 Need 1 Oklahoma & 1 Navy GA. Call 4·2535 NEED TWO GA TIX TO BC GAME FOR PARENTS CALL KATIE AT 4­1422  GRANDMOTHER WILL BABYSIT IN HER HOME. 233-2704 Struggling with self­esteem?Frustrated with the oppo­site sex?Can'I understand your roommates?Having trouble relax­ing?Embarrassed about your family and their behavior?Feeling alone as a graduate student and wishing you had more support?IF ANY OF THESE QUESTIONS RING A BELL WITHYOU­CONSIDER JOINING A GROUP!The University Counseling Center is currently screening indi· viduals with a variety of interperson­al concerns to join small,confidien­tial groups as a way to learn about themselves and support others.Please call us at 631-7336 to get more information. Quality Copies, Qulcklyl We're open early, late, & weekends. THE COPY SHOP Lafortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY Quality Copies, Quickly! SOPHOMORE CLASS MASS AND DINNER!! Sunday, Sept. 26th Mass at 4:30pm at the Grotto (Rain Location: Lewis Hall Chapel) Dinner 5:30pm-7:30pm in LaFOl1une Ballroom Dinner is $2 and includes Subway, Soda, and more!!  Budget wants pepper so he can get fat and run like someone from the Monty pythons movies. If he gets too fat to run. he can always hop on a tandem or start screaming Bloody Maryl There, I just incorporated every joke from this year, Mama! If only I had thought of something clever to say about Gootblatt. Shucks! Ali ­I miss Jersey! I feel like I'm as far from my homel and as Calif. Rie: sorry, I scared you on the phone! This is a shout out to The .Observer's homegirll None other than Laura P-telle. We miss you! Your photo behind me is just not the same. Maybe because you usually aren't posing In such a way white reading pages. So, Christine: If Brad Pitt walked In right now .. yes or no? Who are we kidding? YES! Becky, have fun tonight... prepare for the TOGA!!! Kelly, your present is in the mail, bet you'll never guess what it is? somebody's a tease. huh? Ladles of 243, I miss you guys, love christine. Dylan's back in college. Now doesn't it feel great to be spending your days doing the same as the  ... ....  
great Dylan McKay. Peace Oul.  


page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, September 24, 1999 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL 

Lewis, Walsh to fight for first victory in 1999 
By STEVE DILLENBURGER 
Spores Writer 
Lewis and Walsh will battle and try to correct first game sputters al 1 p.m. Sunday at McGlinn Field. 
The two returning playoff teams ended last year's regu­lar season with a combined record of 9-3; this year they are both winless. 
Lewis was shutout by PE in ils first game, 18-0, losing in every way possible: offensive­ly, defensively and on special teams. 
This game, however, Lewis will face a less challenging Walsh team which lost its opener in a heart-breaker to Lyons. Both the Chick and 
Happy 21st Birthday Tll, our "Rudy." Keep living your dreams!!! 
Love, Mom, Dad, K., Grandma and Grandpa 

Wild Women offenses hope to which limited Lewis to only the Blue League. the Lions on offense, whiln a improve on disappointing one first down. Their defense stingy defense should prove to shutouts. will also be tested by the be just as great a challenge to
Lyons vs. Pasquerllla West
Because this game's winner offense, which features quar­the Weasels as the Welsh
When Lvons and PW face off
will be back in the playoff terback PE's Elizabeth defense.
at 2 p.m: Sunday, it will be a
hunt, these two teams should Plummer. The Purple Weasels, who
match-up of teams with
step up their play for this PE has gone 18-1 in their went 6-0 during the regular
reversed fortunes from last
important match-up. last 19 games and are the season last year, found their
year.

front runners to take home opener to be a rude awaken­
The Lions had a disappoint­
their third-consecutive cham­ing to the '99 season as they
Pasquerilla East vs. Welsh ing season last year in which
pionship. Welsh's opening win were beat 16-0 by Welsh
The Pyros and the Whirlwind they fell one game short of
against PW will concern the Family.
meet in the early game at making the playoffs. However,
Pyros, and their offense with Andi Will, PW's quarterback,
noon on Sunday. This will be a they quickly put the memories
quarterback Stef Eden should will try to bring together the
very intriguing game because of last year behind them, beat­
give the outstanding Pyro Weasel offense, as PW's
both teams opened with ing Walsh to start their sea­
defense some troubles. defense will need to tighten up
impressive shutout victories. son.
The winner of this game will if they hope to stop .the
The Pyros crushed Lewis 18-Katie Yanez and a very tal­
put itself in the driver's seat of Whirlwind.
0 and Welsh shocked PW, 16-ented wide receiving core lead 
0. This game will show whether the Welsh team is for real. The Whirlwind will facA============~==========================u an imposing Pyro defens 
G} 
10U-'ll!OOS1NG 
[ff()ATIJNITY 
ille 

,. 
l-Prein Chair 

----------...--~---------...----------------­
Friday, September 24, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
azLearning.com 
online learning solutions f·rnm a to z1"" 


Study in your donn via the 
Web. Teacher assisted 
classes utiHzing real test 
questions. 

Get Ready for the GMAT or LSAT !!! 
• 
Onhne dasses tH~gin in Octolmr 

• 
Rnroll at www.az1earning.com 

• 
Bn your competitive best!!! 


http://www.azlcarning.com/irish.html 
email: info@.az1ca rning.com 

By STEVE DILLENBURGER 
Sports Writer 

The Breen-Phillips Babes showed Badin why they are the favorites to win the Gold Division. 
BP's dynamic offense and solid defense boggled Badin in a lopsided 18-0 BP victory. 
The Babes got on thfl board early as Karen Swanson ran one into the end zone in the opening minutes of the game. 
Later in the first half, senior quarterback Jenny Choi scorched the Badin defense b~ hiUing wide receiver Erin West down the sideline for thfl game's second score. This touchdown closed out the first half and took the Babes into halftime with a 12-0 lead. 
Badin ·s offense began the sec• ond half and drov11 down the field to pull within one touch­down. 
Choi ended this scoring drought by calling her own number as she scored on a keeper in the game's last 
nee Pa 

ALL AGES WELCOME!! 
Alumni-Senior Club 

Saturday, September 25, 1999 
9:00 p.m. to 1 :00 a.m. 
Free Drinks! 
Free Wings and More! 
Brought to you by the Student Activities Office. 

Breen-Phillips shuts out Badin 
minute. "The offense finally· picked up," West said after the game. The Babe Express moves to 2­0 as Badin falls to 0-1. 
Cavanaugh vs. Pangborn 
The Cavanaugh Chaos offense overpowered the Pangborn Phoxes in the first half, but it was the Chaos' second-half defense that earned them a 13­7 win. 
After the teams went score­less for the first part the first half, the action picked up. After a great play action fake by Cavanaugh's Mandy Reimer, the quarterback looked up and saw Megan Myers streaking down the sideline at least 20 yards away from any Phox. Myers caught a nice pass from Reimer and put six on the board. 
"This is the first time playing flag football," Myers said, "and Mandy's throw was perfect." 
Melissa Marchotte added the conversion to make the game 7 ­0. 
The game then got even wilder. Pangborn had the ball deep in their own territory whenthe Chaos defense inter­cepted. Pangborn followed with a pick off only to see Cavanaugh intercept anothor pass. 
Reimer hit Katie Burdick for the second Chaos score to put Cavanaugh up 13-0. 

Pangborn's offense came to life in the second half. On its first possession Tia Vonil caught a screen pass and took it 50 yards into the end zone. 
Casey McCluskey tacked on the conversion, bringing Pangborn within six, 13-7. 
Farley vs. McGlinn 
The late game of Wednesday night went down to the wire as Farley came away with a 7-0 victory. 
The game was decided with five minutes left as Farley put together a drive to win the game. 
The defenses dominated and ­the teams were unable to break the goal line. The half included an intflrception by Shamrock Lori Mergler. 
Farley took possession with less than 10 minutes to play and marched down the field. With five minutes left, it went up 7-0. 
McGlinn started a drive to attempt to tie the game and when it picked up a critical fourth down and five a win seemed possible. 
Four straight ineompl11te passes, however, gave the ball and the game to Farley. 
"We played awesome," Farley's Elizabeth Brown said. 

Happy 21st Birthday, Kelly Folks! 
We love you! Mom, Dad, Shannon, Jenny and Bobby 
-
... 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, September 24, 1999 
Soccer 
continued from page 24 
come up with five goals -a record low for any team in Irish men's soccer history. Erich Braun, who scored the game­winner against Boston College and the goal in the loss tu Connecticut, has been the only repeat scorer for the Irish all season. 
"The team's a little too excit­ed," said forward Rafael Garcia. "It's just a matter of time before we explode. We definitely have some scorers on the team. Once we explode and start getting some more goals, we'll stay on top." 
weekend will be against nation­ally ranked San Diego. 
Holding the 16th spot in the countrv, the Toreros have had a stellar· season to date. With a 6­0-0 record, they've breezed through the first half of this sea­son's schedule. 
The Irish will need to get past a stingy Torero backfield anchored by sophomore defend­er Eric Van Demen. While Notre Dame. has outshot its opponents in a.JI but two games this season, the squad will need to capitalize on every opportunity to come out on top against the Toreros. 
"Getting into an offensive rhythm takes time," said fresh­man midfielder Paul Rodriguez. "As an offensive player, all you 
can do is keep 
Staying on top "The team ·s a little too plugging way and being per­
this weekend is excited. lt'sjust a matter 
sistent in the
important. Head 
oftime before we attack-and
coach Mike

-
Berticelli, in his explode. We definately then things will begin to
10th season with have some scorers happen."
the Irish, is just 
on this team." On offense,
one win away Torero play­from reaching 
makers senior
100 wins. A vk­Rafael Garcia 
B r i a n
torv·this week­
Irish forward 
end would· make him the second coach in Irish men's soccer history to accom­plish the foat. 
To put Berticelli over the cen­tury mark. the lrish will have to post wins against Saint Mary's and San Diego. Saint Mary's, a West Coast Conference team, has struggled this season. At 1­6-0, the Gaels have had trouble both offensively and defensively. 
Opponents have scored multi­ple goals against the Gaels while holding the offense scoreless. 
The Irish and the Gaels have taken the field against each other only one other time, and the Irish came out on last year with a 1-0 win in California. 
The real test for the Irish this 
Tuesday, September 28 
7:30 p.m. 
For ticket information contact the Saint Mary's Box Office 
284-4626 



-
... 
O'Connor and sophomore Mike Piserchio 
lead the San Diego squad up front and could pose a big threat Lo Irish goalkeeper Gerick Short. 
Even with two losses this sea­son. Short has held his own against opponents. Tending goal for all 587 minutes of play this year, Short has recorded three shutouts and amassed 21 saves and a .840 save percentage. His play in goal has been critical for many close Irish wins this sea­
son.  
This  is  the  first  meeting  
between  the  Irish  and  the  
Toreros.  

The Saint Mary's tournament marks the last road trip for the Irish until mid-October. 


VOLLEYBALL 
Leffers ready to hit West Coast 
By MATT OLIVA 
Sports Writer 
On a two-stop Lrip west this weekend, the Notre Dame women's volleyball team will attempt to carry last week­end's successful match-up with Miami (Ohio) and improve on its 5-2 record. 
Tonight, Notre Dame will play Wyoming before moving on to Colorado State for a Saturday night match. The two matches will be the final preparation for Notre Dame before its Big East season opener against West Virginia on Oct. 1. 
The Wyoming Cowgirls (5-6) return more han half of their starters from a team that went 16-14 in 1998. They are led by junior middle blocker Melody Friehauf, who is averaging 
3.77 kills per game as well as a team best .397 hitting aver­age. 
Colorado State is currently ranked 17th in the nation, pro­viding a test for the Irish. The 
Rams are off to a perfect start 
with a 10-0 record, led by out­
side hitter Catie Vagneur, who 
is averaging 3.91 kills and 
more than two digs per game. 
The Rarns also have two other 
players with more than three 
kills per game. 

"We are going to see stronger teams this weekend," said Irish junior outside hitter Christi Girton. "We have to keep building on our perfor­.mance against from this past 
weekend." 

The Irish have been getting 
quality performances from all 
members of their team. V\lhile 
Notre Dame is still stressing a 
team effort, sever al players 
have made major individual 
contributions so far. 
Senior captain Mary Leffers 
is ranked second nationally in 
blocks per game. Her 1.90 
mark has helped Notre Dame 
to its 18th-place rank in team 
blocking statistics with 3.1 
blocks per game. Leffers was 
first in the Big East in blocks 
and hitting percentage (.360) 
in overall games when the Big East released its conference statistics Monday. 
Kristy Kreher also was ranked fourth in hitting per­centage, with a .336 average, and 10th in kills, with 3.42 per game. Malinda Goralski ranked fifth in both hitting percentage {.324) and blocks per game {1.05), while junior captain Denise Boylan was third in assists, averaging 
11.76 per game. 
The Irish will look for these players to continue to con­tribute as they prepare for their upcoming conference schedule. 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
U,ed books houghl and sold 

• 
25 Calegories of Books 

• 
25.000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Prine search service: 


$'."!.00 
• Appnusals large and ,mall 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 

If our delicious, flame-broiled double cheeseburger were any bigger, we'd need to buy more ad space. 

N!1tt1tng t"lC,tts our h1g.,1uicy Douhk ( :hL'l.'Sl+,urgcr. It's got the ~re;H Cbtc otfhmc broiling and ha~ 75 ()111w >1\' heel" than ivk l )011:,kl\ C~lwcseriu1l;\'I'. 
,1Pr,ce and p,,rt1c1pal10,1 ,,,,,;vary) 
Ttle HOO(:lle Lafortune S1we·,1 C!itt~ter 

It just tastes better. 

'I •1' 
Friday, September 24, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 
ND to take on Big East rivals 
Ob,c•rvcr St,1IT Report 
Allnr a w1wk sp1!11l rofm:us~ ing and regrouping aJ'tl'r its loss to Soullwrn Mdhodisl Univ1irsily on Sunday, llrn Notrn Dalli<' wornnn's so1'.cPr l!lam Lrav1•ls lo Now JnrS!\); Lo tak11 011 Hig l•:asl rivals Snton Ila!! and l{utgnrs. 
l.asl ypar, Solon lfall doalt Notn• Da11w its SP('ond confor­flllC:1) loss and lirsl loss lo an unrank,•d 11•n111 sincP 1990, wlwn tlw l'iratPs toppnd tlrn Irish :~-2 in overlinw. l>c.spiL1) last vnar's loss, Notre Damn still lnads thn all-tinw snriPs · with Solon I !all. :~-1. 
Snton llall is IN! by 01w ol' Lim most dang1•rous 01Tc11siv1• play­ers in llw rnuntry in sunior for­ward KPlly Smith. Smith is tl1P. pm.season Big East ol'fonsive playnr of Llw ynar. Slw INI thn NCAA in scoring in 1998 wit.h two g-oals 1wr ganw and 4.29 points per gumn. Smith scornd tlrn first goal i11 Pi rates 1998 victory. 
S,mior l'orward .1,~1111y llefl providl'd llw Irish scDring in I998's loss to the llall. llnl't scorPd both Irish goals. She added 2h more goals in I'J'J8 UJ set an Irish record for goals in a soason. llnr 28 goals gave lrnr <,O goals in lrnr curnnr. She has addNl two morn goals in 
Leader/Manager. 
Full-time college students or graduates. $31 K starting salary. Summer interns available. 
U.S.M.C. Officer Programs. 
Contact Lt. Simek at 
765-743-8359. 
~ (J 

19'J9 and is closing in on Monica Gerado's earner record for goals al 78. 
On Sunday, thn Irish will meet the Scarlet Knights of Hutgcrs. Notre Dame defeated Hutgers 3-0 last year. Paced by Lindsey Jones' first career goal in the first minute of action. the Irish jumpml out to an early 1­_o lead and never looked back en route to a 3-0 win. The Irish 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL 

also got goals from Meolis Erikson and Jenny Strcilfor. 
Rutgers is led by goalkeeper Angel Hadaway who loads the Big East with a .45 goals against average. She has been instrumental in the Scarlet Knights 4-1 record. On offense, Rutgers is led by Shannon Nagle and Alyssa Radu. Each has scored three goals in the Knights' first five games. 
Young, defensive teams to gain experience 
will face off at 4 p.m. Sunday. By STEVE KEPPEL McGlinn (0-1-1) comes off a Sports Writer heartbreaking 7-0 loss to 
Farley and a tie with Pangborn Two young, defensive teams last week. On the upside, their 

(J (J 

PulliamJournalism Fellowships 
Graduating college seniors are invited to apply for the 27th annual Pulliam 
Journalism Fellowships. We will grant 10-week summer internships to 20 
journalism or liberal arts majors in the August 1999-June 2000 graduating 
classes. 
Previous internship or part-time experience at a newspaper is desired, or other demonstration of writing and reporting ability. Those who go through the Fellowships often find new professional opportunities opening up at other newspapers during and after the program. Winners will receive a $5,500 stipend and will work at either The Indianapolis Star or The Arizona Republic. Opportunities for online training are available, along with reporting experience at our major metropolitan daily newspapers. 
Early-admissions application postmark deadline is Nov. 15, 1999. By Dec. 15, 1999, up to five early-admissions winners will be notified. All other entries must be postmarked by March 1, 2000, and will be consid­ered with remaining early-admissions applicants. Successful applicants will be notified on or before April 1, 2000, and will be asked to respond immediately with a letter of intent, at which time one-third of the cash grant will be mailed to the Fellow. 
To request an application packet, visit our Web site, e-mail us or write: 
Football 
continued from page 24 
ran out in the third quarter. 
As the final quarter opened, the Irish finally got on the board. Pilnev hit Frank Gaul for an 11-y.ard gain to the Buckeye 1-yard line. Steve Miller plunged across the goal line on the next play for the touchdown. 
The Irish missed the extra point, however, and still trailed the Buckcves B-6. 
The [rish still trailed by seven when the got the ball at their own 20-vard line with less than three minutes remaining in tho game. Pilney quickly led the Irish into Buckeye territory with his slashing running style and into striking distance of the Ohio State end zone. 
From the :B-yurd line, Pilney dropped back to pass. He found Layden open in the end zone for a touchdown as the Buckeye lead fell to just one. The Irish once again missed the extra point, and it seemed as though the Buckeyes would escape with a 13-12 lead. 
With 81,000 fans screaming. Layden called for an o.nside kic'k. Ohio State, however, recovered and it appeared that victory was in had. With less than a minute left, the Buckeyes only had to refrain from fumbling to win the game. 
With odds heavily stacked in the Buckeyes' favor, Pilney struck again. On first down, he hit Buckeye tailback Dick Beltz and forced him to cough up the football. Henry Pojman recov­ered for the Irish and tho stage was set for a dramatic conclu­sion. 

Pilney broke fnrn for 30 yards on fir.st down and got Notre Dame down to the OSU 19-yard line before he was forced out of bounds. That 30­yard scamper would be Pilney's last play of the day, however, as he tore cartilage in his knee and had to be carried from the field. 
With Pilney on the sidelines, Irish All-American Bill Shakespeare took over passing duties for the Irish. 
Shakespeare's first pass was nearly a tragedy. Beltz stepped in front of the pass and nearly made up for his earlif'r fumble by killing the Irish drive with an interception. Beltz, howev­er, could not hang on and the ball fell to the turf. 
On second down, Shakespeare dropped back to pass again. Shakespeare spot­ted Wayne Miller open in the end zone for the winning touchdown. The ensuing extra­point was again missed ·but vic­tory was already in hand, 18­
12. 
The Irish followed their emo­tiona I victory over the Buckeyes with a 14-7 loss to tho Wildcats of Northwestern the following Saturday. thus ending any hope for a national title. 
When sportswriters voted on the best game of the first 50 years of the 20th century, how­ever, the 1935 battle between the Irish and the Buckeyes was the overwhelming winner. 
defense has only given up one touchdown. but their offense has failed to put any points on the board. 
Badin (0-1) comes off a tough 18-point loss against undefeated Breen-Phillips. 
"We need to work on defense." Badin quaterback Prissy Clements said. "We have a lot of' young people." 
Despite the inexperience, Clements has faith the team will be competitive, especially offen­sively. 
"We completed more passes against BP than we did all last year," said Clements. "(McGlinn isl going to be good and our offense is going to have to step up." 
Cavanaugh vs. Farley 
The 5 p.m. game Sunday should be a hard fought battle 

between Cavanaugh and Farley. 
Cavanaugh, a playoff team last season, comes off a disap­pointing opening-day loss to Howard. Farley has evened out its record, posting 1-1 after a loss to BP and a 7-0 win over McGlinn. 
Farley's stifling defense has only given up one touchdown in two games and seems confident about the latest victory. 
The Farely defense held McGlinn to no first downs for muc;h of the game. 
"Our defense is a cohesive unit and as long as the defense does well, we'll be in good shape," said defensive lineman Jennifer Ross. 
On offense. Farley wide recievers Lindsey Kosinski and Mia Banas should make things happen. They both had solid games last week. 
Planning to Studv Abroad? 
svracuse has vour ticket! 
SEE DR. ALEX MEDINA ON 
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27 FROM 
4 -5:30 PM IN ROOM 204, 
DEBARTOLO HALL. WE CAN 
HELP YOU WITH YOUR PLANS TO 
STUDY ABROAD. 

S Y RA C U S E tf"i#i1 
STUDY ABROAD \-t.l~~J' '"') """'"" 
119 Euclid Ave/Box D Syracuae, NY 13:144 800 235 3472 auabroad@ayr.eduhttp://aumweb.syr.edu/dipa 

W,•h ~i,c: 1,·1, 11 ,lal'lll'I' ,.cPmlpjl 1:-111ail: pullwm(a ,1arne11,.ct1111 
Russell B. Pulliam Pulliam Fellowships Dir~ctor Indianapolis Newspapers P.O. Box 145 Indianapolis, IN 46206-0145 
... 
page 20 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September 24, 1999 

• 
Beginning in September, UNO.com will o.ffer a subscription service called the Irish Insider. 
The Insider will feature: 
• 
Bi-Weekly Bob Davie Column 

• 
Game Analysis 

• 
Player Diaries 

• 
Previews 


• 
Video Playbook from the Coach's Edge 

• 
Exclusive Irish Features 



Also included in the Insider Package: 
• 
Weekly Ticket Giveaways for Football and Men's Basketball. Games 

• 
Big East Tournament Ticket Giveaways 

• 
Bowl Game Ticket Giveaways 

• 
Discounts and Coupons for the Notre Dame Online Store 


Become an Irish Insider!! 
Sign up to become an Irish Insider and receive a Notre Dame t-shirt! The first 500 subscribers will receive a Notre Dame football yearbook! 
.. 


Friday, September 24, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Juggernaughts prepare to contend with evil forces 
Univcr•ity of Notre Dame Department of Mu•ic p e e 

-..J.i;r .. 
---w'l/·'
,.,,. 
expand our fast growing market. 
PRODUCT SAMPLERS 

10-15 Hours per week (Weekend hours required) $10 per hour PLUS commissions! If you enjoy meeting people -want to gain selling experience -want to learn more about the explosive telecommunications business AND want a FREE PCS Digital Phone, then 
0MNIP0INT wants to speak with you! 
For immediate consideration, fax, e-mail or call today! Fax: 317-347-7024. E-mail: bhatcher@omnipoint-pcs.com Ph: 317-347-7100. An EOE, we screen candidates for a drug-free work environment. 
~OMNIPOINT· 
WHERE PROMISING FUTURES ARE TAKING SHAPE. 
www.omnipoint.com 



Cmbracing I.he season, 
. while indulging in the festivity of the harvest. '~ SoI_ins introduces dining in the true spirit of Notre Dame. ' , Presenting menus that compliment the fall season ., ) ,with the finest foods it has to offer. Be our guest Ital Sorins and celebrate a change in dining. 
{,­
~isit us within The Morris Inn. 
YOU 
JUST FOUND A DIAMOND IN A MOUNTAIN 
OF ROCKS. 
Looking for a fun and rewarding PART-TIME job? 
Omnipoint has the perfect position for you! A leader in the wire­less industry, we are currently seeking part-time employees to help us 

records and are looking to put one in the win column. 
"I expect a good game," noted Zahm captain Mike Garko. "They have a good defense." 
After a week of practice, the Zahmbies will not alter their approach for Sunday's game, Garko explained. 
However, it seems last week's defeat has taken a toll on Knott. 
'"We only had five guys at our last practice," said Suarez, "And we're struggling to recoup." 
Suarnz sefls the "Red Swarm" defense as a definite threat, and is ready for the fierceness the dorm displays every year. 
"Zahm is usually good, but we're looking to solidify our defonse and move the ball con­sistently on offense," he said. 
Siegfried vs. Fisher 
The Hamblers of Siegfried hope to l'eed off their emolional high from last Sunday's 3-0 dnl'eat over rival Knott llall to securn a second win over 1-0 Fisher. 
"The win got our team up," said Siegfried quarterback Rob Plumby. "The attiludc of our team is high." 
Plumby noted that his o!Tense could have contributed more in the battle against Knott, but is confident his team -offense and defense -will produce on Sunday. 
"Knott was a big game," said Plumby, "and it was a hard-hit­ting game." 
The Ramblers scoped out Fisher's play during last week's match-ups, and plans to adjust accordingly. 
"We look to change up our defense to adjust to Pisher's tendencies," noted Plumby. "We adjusted our offense." 
Fishers captain Dean Korolis is confident the Green Wave will imitate last week's winning play. 
"Our focus is to manage Jong consistent offensive drives, and play good defense again," he said. However, Korolis said he hopes to see his team unveil some surprises on Sunday and "show new looks" to secure a win and remain undefeated. 
'They should be a good team, and we'll see how it goes on Sunday," Korolis said. 
Sorin vs. St. Ed's 
Sorin's Screaming Otters ho(Je to support another offensive show starring Greg "Hollywood" Carney and quarterback Luke Beuerlein this Sunday as they face off against 0-1 St. Edward's Hall. 


"We are staying with what we did last week,'' said Sorin cap­tain Fred Faber. 
However, the team still seems to be celebrating last week's victory over Zahm, evidenced by low practice attendance. 
"This week of practice has been terrible," noted Faber. "We've had less than half of the team for practices." 
"This wnek's practice has been intense,'' said captain Nick Sciola, "and we'rn trying to stay focused." 
Sciola hopes to erase the curse of bad showings in second games that has plagued his team in recent years. "We are usually I.Jacl arter the first or secnnd game," said Sciola. "We am keeping our mindset." 
"We'll try lo run the ball," Faber said. "Bunning defense is something we want to prove." 
After a poor offensive show in last week's loss, Sciola knows his team has to improve in order to lock up a win. 
"We need more production from the offense since we haven't scored yet," said Sciola. "We need tu start right away against Sorin." 
St. Ed's spirits are high despite a disheartening first­game Joss, and they expect to stand as a threat to Sorin. 
"Our morale.is high," Sciola said, "and people are expncting victory." 
By RACHEL BIBER Sports Writer 
The Juggernaughls of Knott llall will lry lo ccmtend with evil l'orcus of Zahm in Llrnir match­up Sunday. 
"Zahm is known for their evil tendencies," said Mario Suarez, captain and quart,~rbaek of the Juggernaughts, "and they defi­nitely show it on the football field." 
Both teams head into this weekend's game with 0-1 


page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, September 24, 1999 
... INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Keenan, Stanf9rd prepare for neighborhood rivalry 


By KEVIN BERCHOU 
Spom Writer 
Interhall football will become "innerhall" football on Sunday. 
Stanford and Keenan play­ers, residents of the same building, will square off for neighborhood bragging rights at 3 p.m.• 
Both teams enter Week 2 riding high, as each was able to knock off its respective opening opponent by identical 14-0 scores. 
Keenan bested a very game Morissey Manor squad on the strength of a rock solid defense. led by senior star Doug Kraft who contributed two sacks and added a clutch fumble recovery that led to the winning score. 
The Knights, however, are 
by no means one-dimensional. 
They sport an opportune 
offense that is quick to capital­
ize off opponent's miscues. 
Freshman quarterback Billy 
Ellsworth overcame a shaky 
first half in last Sundav's 
opener, throwing a fourth­
and-goal touchdown pass to 
senior wideout J .J. Frigge late 
in the fourth quarter to secure 
victory. 
The passing attack is com­
plemented by the sterling abil-
VOLLEYBALL 

Bill leads Belles to victory 
By KATIE MCVOY 
Sports Writer 
The Belles' volleyball team defeated Olivet Wednesday. 3-, 1. 
Saint Mary's took the first game. 15 -11. That win gave them momentum f'or the rest of the match. 
Although they dropped the second game, the Belles kept control. 
"Overall, things went well," head coach Randa Shields said. "Although there were moments 
ATTENTION 
UNDERGRADUATE AND GRADUATE 
STUDENTS 
WORLDWIDE 
PURSUE JOB 
AND INTERNSHIP 
OPPORTUNITIES 
THAT SPAN THE GLOBE

-
.. 

ities of bruising tailback Nick Costanzo whose I 3-yard scamper ended up being all that was necessary to best Morissey. 
"Last week was a great con­fidence builder," said Keenan captain Herb Giorgio. "We're still a long way from where we need to be, but we're getting there.'" 
Stanford comes into this week's showdown having shut down a formidable Keough team 14-0. 
Like their opponents this week. the Griffins boast a dominant defense anchored bv a strong front three. · 
Captain John Dickas. along with fellow defensive linemen Dave Hunt and Shamus Rohn lead a defense that limited Keough to just twelve yards of first half offense. 
"Our 'D' is awesome," said 
Dickas. "We just keep attack­
ing." 
Stanford's potent offensive 
attack rounds out a solid 
team. 
Boasting an all-star back­
field consisting of fullback J.C. 
Perez and tailbacks Chris Heid 
and Curt Roberts, the Griffins 
showcase an I-formation and 
will aim to wear down the 
defense with repeated rush 
attempts. 
Adding fuel to the fire is the fact that ~eenan enters Week 2 action on an impressive 15­game winning streak, and is the two-time defending cham­pion of interhall football. 

The Knights are pressured to extend their mark, while the Griffins thirst to begin a streak. 
"Keenan is the team to beat," said Stanford captain Dickas. 
"We wern impressed with their passing attat:k, but with our defense I think we're defi­nitely capable of ending this winning streak." 
Both tea·ms are approaching the contest as if their seasons hang in the balance. 
"This is the big one," said Giorgio. "We were probably lucky to beat them last year, and this time we want to play a better game." 
"We take the Keenan game 
seriously no matter what," 
noted Dickas. 
"It's one of the biggest rival­
ries on campus, and that 
streak of theirs definitely 
motivates us." 
All signs point to this being 
an extremely hard-fought, 
close game. With both teams 
featuring dominant defensive 
units, an early score might be 
all that's needed to claim an 
entire year's worth of brag­
ging rights. 

JEFF HSU/The Observer A Stanford running back lunges for a few extra yards in a recent game. Stanford faces rival Keenan Sunday afternoon. 

3 & 6 MILE RUNS, 2 MILE WALK~ AND ~.' 
PANCAKE BREAKFAST ~ 

SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 25 . _ 11:00-STEPAN CENTER T-SHIRTS TO ALL FINISHERS REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS $6.00 IN ADVANCE AND $7.00 DAY OF RACE 
DEADLINE FOR ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS 9/24/99 AT 5:00PM 
STUDENT AND STAFF DIVISIONS 
when we lost some of our focus, we still played well enough to win." 
Saint Mary's took the third game. 15-4, and the fourth game, 15-9. 
Leading the offense was Agnes Bill with 20 kills and 15 digs for the night. Helping Bill were Emily Nihill with 14 kills, Angie Meyer with 14 digs, Victoria Butcko with 2 aces and 
. Suzanne Martin with 46 assists. Jayne Ozbolt and Jolie ,LeBeau led the defense with 8 and 5 blocks, respectively. Saint Mary's is now 1-0 in 

conference play and 6-5 overall for the season. 
The Belles play a double­header, facing Alma College and Adrian College at home Saturday, starting at 1 p.m. 
Friday, September 24, 1999 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
-

FOURTH AND INCHES 
\IE;LL, LIWlE.S., AR'E. '\OV 'ti..E,\tl{ R~r..W?, 'fov c,oVs ARE 601tvG "TO <::,o Ei,T' io IAKE. us ovr ,o DI~ Ne.In 
Fox TROT 
TOM KEELEY 
BlLLAMEND 

.. 
JEFF BEAM

A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD 

~ 

"THESE THtN6S ARE MY 
MoRE FUN THAN TURN! I THOU61iT. I 

HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS 
DAY: Ben Vereen, David Lee Roth, 
Tanya Tucker, Richard Jaeckel 

Happy Birthday: You'll be ready to take on the world, but before you do, think twice. You'll be tempted to overreach your bounds this year, and if you do you'll fall short of your goals. Don't let others lead you astray. You can't do everything for everyone else. This is a year to put your efforts into your own projects. Don't feel guilty; just do what's best for you. Your.numbers: 9, 18, 27, 36, 45, 47 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your enthusiasm will be your savior. Keep busy and you will spare yourself unnecessary confrontations. Co­workers may try to put words in your mouth. Control your temper and spare your reputation. 0000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Be precise in your communications. Do not overload your plate. Your reputa­tion will suffer if you don't live up to the commitments you have agreed to. 
000 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You can spend money on yourself, but don't throw cash away on a risky investment. Doing things with chil­dren will be most rewarding. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): It's time to set a strict budget and stick to it. Personal financial problems may lead to losses if you haven't made arrangements to cut your overhead. Self-deception must be avoided. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You can ask for favors. Be your charming self and you'll be surprised how many love interests you will entice. The limelight will be yours if you want it. 
0000 
EUGENIA LAST 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Your options are expanding. Go after the career that appeals to you the most, not the one that pays the most. You need to !ike what vou do in order to be happy 00 · 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Work on making yourself the best you can be. Watch your health. You will get run down if you have taken on too much or overindulged yourself. Changes in your home may not be to your liking. 
00000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Look into ways of making life a little si!n­pler for your older family members. You can take care of matters pertain­ing to your home with ease today. 
000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Do the best job possible and you will find that the problems will dissipate. Don't let emotions interfere with your work performance. Quitting will not be the answer. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You should try to get out to the the­ater. You need a break and so does your emotional partner. Look into vacation spots that you'd both enjoy 
000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Real estate deals can be quite prof­itable. Don't hesitate to make changes to your home. New products or appli­ances will help in more ways than you can imagine. 00000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Sign up for or start new courses today. You need a little stimulation. Look to what unique or creative subjects are being offered. You will develop new and lasting friendships through your studies. 00 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Popular fund-raising event 
10 High-powered language? 15 W.W. II British fighter plane 16 Jazz composer Guaraldi 17 Renounces 18 Actress Susan 19 One using a cat-a' -nine-tails 20 Subs 22 Tasseled cap 23 Mellow-toned 2sCity­26 Reduces gradually 
28 "Uh-uh" 31 Shares 35 Bristle: Prefix 36 Big bill 38 Extremists 40Percy--, 
inventor of the microwave oven 42 No less than 43 ---shanter 45 Scratched (out) 46 Cath. or Hind., e.g. 47 Financial 49 Miss 51 Shoe sound 53 E.R. technique 56 Less forgiving 59Rogue 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

61 Skilled force 62 Self-reliant 64"Doe,--..." 
(song lyric) 65 Deferral 66 Versifiers 67 Stay home, 
maybe 
DOWN 
1 Refuse 2 Declining 
currency 3 Ball's partner 4 Scandinavian 
god of fertility 5 Clemson athlete 6 Most alarming 7 It's sometimes 
passed &What afoul might result in 9 
_ Bank 
10 Fade away Puzzle by Rich Norris 

11 Watches 32 River to the 52 Small amount 12 Like some 
Ubangi 

53 Small part gasolines 33 Lot to ask 
54 Small wound 13 Garbage pail, 
34 Pavement 
maybe 

cautiori 55 Uncertain t4 Frame insert 
37 Ship's hdg. 56 Sore point? 21 Fruit drink 
39 Kind of club 

57 "Hooray for me!" sa 1957 Lancaster role 60 Fish also called "blue jack" 63 Maria lead-in 
24 Tops 41 Agile equine Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 27 Cheerless are available by touch-tone phone: 29 To --(exactly) 44 Increase 

1-900-420-5656 (951t per minute). 48 Sheraton Hotels 
30 Large number Annual subscriptions are available for the 
owner 

best of Sunday crosswords from the last magnate 50 Stuck 50 years: 1-888-7-ACAOSS. 
31 Industry 

Birthday Baby: You are a proud little tyke and an extremely sensitive individual. You pick up on what others are thinking and you instinctively know how others feel about you. You must learn to look out ior vourself at an early age in order to avoid the disappointrnent that can result when you depend on others. 
(Need advice' Visit Eugenia on the Web at www.astroadvice.com or www.eugenialast.com.) 
If' 11191" Univt•rs"l l'rcss 5,·ndicatL' 
-

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
----------~--~------------------------------~-------------~--------------­
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses, Please complete the accom_pa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name ______________________ Address ___________________ 
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 


Heading East 

After a week ofrefocusing, the Irish women ·s soccer team travels to the E'ast Coast this weekend to take on Big East rivals Seton Hall and Rutgers.
PORTS 

page 19 

page 24 OBSERVER 
Friday, September 24, 1999 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Notre Dame looks to kick road woes in California 
By KERRY SMITH Spores Writer 
Road trips are tough for any team, but espe­cially when i-t faces adversity along the way. 
Such is the case for the Notre Dame men's soccer team, which begins its weekend at the Saint Mary's Tournamf'nt today against host Saint Mary's (Calif.) and finishes up against San Diego on Sunday. 
The Irish's two g::unt>s this weekt,nrl will dose 

-
out a four-game away series that so far has not gone along with Irish plans. 
Notre Dame traveled east last woekrmd for two important games against Big East rivals Seton Hall and Connecticut. but poor weather conditions forced the cancellation of the Seton Hall game. 
They wen' able to match up with the Huskies. but couldn't come away with a win, as the Huskies handed them a 2-l overtime loss. 
"Away games add some extra stress to play­ing," said midlielder Alan Lyskawa. "You're away from a familiar environm1rnt and you have to play under different conditions and in a completely different setting." 
The Irish look to regroup and put on a strong performance in California this weekend. Increased potency on offense will be critical for the squad if Notre Dame plans to walk away with a pair of wins. 
With a 3-2-1 record, the Irish have struggled trying to put the ball in the net. The team has been concentrating on its attack in practice, hoping to scorn more goals when it counts. 
"Not scoring many goals has a lot to do with young players who aren't as composed around the net as others might be," said Lyskawa. "Getting everyone involved in the game is a big step and hopefully the goals will start to come. 
"One reason [for not scoring many goals] is that at the beginning of the season we focused a lot on defense in practice. ~ow the coaches have shifted gears a little -we've been concen­trating on making scoring opportunities and finishing our plays," Lyskawa said. 
In six games. Notre Dame has only managed 
see SOCCER/page 18 
FOOTBALL HISTORY 

1935 Irish spoil season for famed Buckeyes 
top-ranked Ohio State. ed and converted into a touch­of the first quarter led to or elegance, but it did its job as
Editor's note: Notre Dame's 

They left with one of the most down. It was difficult to get a another Buckeye touchdown. a different Irish squad emerged
journey lo achieve designation 

dramatic victories in Notre running play started against Stanley Pincura intercepted a from the locker room.
as the 20th century's greatest 

Dame history. the hard-charging Ohio State pass near midfield and sparked The third quarter did not see
college football team is 

The Buckeyes rode on an line. It was even hard to get a the Ohio State scoring drive. Notre Dame put a touchdown
marked by 10 milestones, one 

offense that featured nearly punt away." The Buckeyes utilized a lateral on the board, but the irish
each decade since 1990. The 

300 different plays from seven Ohio State looked exactly like attack to move to the Irish 15 offense moved the ball better
-
Observer examines these 
formations into the showdown a top-ranked undefeated squad in six plays. Joe Williams then and the defense held the
moments in a 10-part series 

that appear on Fridays. with the Irish. Many sports­in the first half as they com­broke through the Irish line Buckeye attack in check. The writers had already penciled in pletely dominated Notre Dame. and stretched the Buckeye lead second half also saw Irish half­Ohio State as their choice for The scoring began early in the to 13. The extra point was no back Andy Pilney take over the 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 

the 1935 national champion first quarter for the Buckeyes. good and Ohio State led 13-0 game.
i\.,,sociare Spom EJiwr 

and gavt> Notre Dame little Frank Antenucci stepped in heading into halftime. After Noire Dame pinned chance of winning on the road. front of Irish halfback Mike There was no "Win One For Ohio State deep within its own
Four years after Knute 

The first half seemed to fulfill Layden's pass and then later­The Gipper" talk at halftime or .territory, the Buckeyes wereRockne's death and more than 
to the exp<~ctations. alled the ball to Arthur any great strategy changes. forced to punt. The punt was 
a decade after the Four 

"I had never seen a Nolre Boucher. Boucher returned the Layden merely encouraged his short, however, and PilneyHorsemen galloped down the 
Dame offense so completely ball 70 vards for an earlv first­team to "win this half for them­returned the kick to thegridiron. former Horseman and 
stopped,'' writer Francis quarter' touchdown anct" a 7-0 selves." Layden's halftime Buckeye 12-yard line as time
head coach Elmer Layden led 

Wallace said. "When the Irish Buckeye lead. speech may not go down with
his 5-0 Irish squad into 

passed, the ball was intercept-An Irish turnover at the close any of Rockne's for its poetry
Buckeye Stadium to take on ' see FOOTBALUpage 19 

vs. Oklahoma ac St. Mary's Tournament e Saint Mary's Volleyball 
Moraga, California Friday-Sunday Saturday, 1 p.rn. 
ii-SPORTS • October 2, 1 :30 p.m. ~ vs. Alma College 
ATA •
at Seton Hall Volleyball Saint Mary's Golf -~ Today, I p.m. at Wyoming at Hope College
e

-GLANCE 
Today, 7 p.m. Sunday, 1 p.m. 





