

Merry Christmas! 
Appeal Denied 
The Observer stafl' u1ould like to wish everyone 

Wednesday
D. fl. Fleenor's request for a slay ofexecution 
a wonderful holida!J season. The next issue will 
was denied by a federal judge. . 
he Wednesday. Jan. 18, 2000. 
DECEMBER 8,
News . page 10 
1999 
----·------·-----·-----­

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIII NO. 64 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


Jubilee 2000 offers giving and forgiving 
. Catholic Church sets example of forgiveness for world powers 
Hy TOM ENRIGHT 
News Writ" 
Whilt> tliP 1rnw mill11n11i11m may lincl many pt•oplt~ prepared f'or lhc worst. a numbl\r of devoted students and fai:ully 011 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campusPs will mark Lh1• c;n•al .Jubil1ie with celebration and rt!r.ondlialion. 
Tlw .luhillin t'.oncnpt dates back lo llw 1lc,ys of thn Old Tnstamnnt, wlrnn PVPry !iO yPars was callml a Jubilee Yc-ar. Undor this tradition, crops, 
"'""" not harvnstud for the nntir~ yPar. rh•bts Wl!rl' l'orgiv1rn and slaves and prisoners wnre rnlnased . .lubil1ic CP!«ihrntions also indudcd a l'r-ast and propnrty returns to previ­
ous owrwrs. 
Tho Catholic. Church revived .luhilnc cnlcbrations in 1:\00. The upcoming c;nmt Jubilee year in par­ticular will rnl'lcct many of the same idr!as practicl'd by the Ilnhr,•ws of tlw Old Tuslanwnt. 
/\crording to Frank Santoni, coor­dinator or special projects for Campus Ministry. the year 2000 .Jubilee will focus on !"our main themes: lotting the land lie !'allow, answnring tlrn call to forgiveness, holding a grnat Eucharistic !'east aud 11roclaiming liberty and fnw­dom. 
l'rnsid11nt Bill Clinton announced that thti United States will forgive all d,!ht ownd by 3(> of the world's 
sec CHURCH/page 4 


KATIE MILLER/The Observer 

"Some people feel part of the power of the labyrinth Is that It contains energies from the past and the present, propelling 
us Into the future," said Sister Marilyn Zugish of Saint Mary's rock garden. 
. Saint Mary's gives millennium gift to South Bend community 
By KATIE MILLER 
News Writer 

The ringing of wind chimes echoes through the trees bordering the labyrinth built by the Sisters of the Holy Cross in a quiet place next to Dalloway's. 
This new addition to the Saint Mary's campus offers 
students and members of tho South Bend community a place of so_litude and reflec­tion as the new millennium approaches. 
Releasing, illumination and union are the three steps to walking a labyrinth accord­ing to a sign near the entrance. Built as a celebra­tion for the Jubilee 2000, the labyrinth consists of white stepping stones in the shape of the "seven-circuit labyrinth" and surrounded by darker rocks. 
"There's lots of symbolism to the seven [in the labyrinth]." said Sister 
Marilyn Zugish. "There's seven energy centers in the body and seven spheres in the universe according to the ancients." 
''Some people feel part of the power of the labyrinth is that it contains energies from the past and the pre­sent, propelling us into the future." 
The "seven-circuit labyrinth" is the most com­mon and ancient of labyrinth patterns. Unlike a maze, there are no dead ends in a labyrinth, allowing the user to think with an intuitive mind rather than the think­
ing mind -allowing time for reflection. 
"When you are walking into the center of the labyrinth, you might ·be thinking, 'What do I need to let go of?' And then you let go of it [in the center of the labyrinth I and see if them arc any new foelings. And when you walk out. it's kind of like getting committed to doing what you need to do," said Zugish. 
When used as a spiritual tool, the labyrinth can open users to healing and growth, 
see LABYRINTH/page 4 


FACULTY SENATE 
Members support Ob~erver, affirmative action policy 

By JOSHUA BOURGEOIS Assistant N cws Editor 
The Faculty Senate passed resolutions dealing with The Observer advertising poli­cy and affirmative action in faculty hiring at its Wednesday meeting. 
The Executive Commiltce proposed a re8­olution in support of The Observer's editori­al board in its decision to publish the ad submitted by OUTreach ND rn t.he Nov. 19 edition. 
The resolution commended The Observer for prinling the OUTreach ND ad which "fits the editorial policy of The Observer," and it expressed the senate's "complete solidarity with the relevant policy and action of the editorial board of The Observer." 
After debate on wording of the resolution, the resolution passed 31 votes in favor and one vote against. 
The second resolution proposed by the Executive Committee called for an affirma­tive action plan in hiring to increase diversi­ty at the University. 
The resolution asked "tlrn administration to develop [an affirmative action in faculty hiring] plan ... if one doos not already exist: to publish the new or existing plan in the Notre Dame report." 
Ava Preacher clarified the meaning of llw resolution, referring lo the Accr11ditalion Report that the Commission on Institutions or Higher Education of the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools wrote when they evnluatnd the University in 1994. 
In the evaluation, the group rnportecl a need f'or the University to develop an affir­mative action plan to show tlwir commit­ment to increasing diversity. 
According to tho report, "The University should develop and implemnnt a plan for filling the projected new 150 faculty posi­tions that is sensitive and responsive to eth­nicity and gender concerns. Tho absence of such a plan or an allirmalive action ollic11 questions the seriousness of the [University's] commitment to incrnasing fac­ulty diversity." 
The Faculty Senate passed the resolution by a 29-to-three vote. 
page2 The Observer . INSIDE Wednesday, December 8, 1999 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Choose wisely 
Life is full of choices. More than just a clever catch phrase for beer posters and T-shirts, the motto makes a lot of sense. 
Whether it's deciding to wear plaid or stripes, shower or not shower, we make important deci­
sions every day. While some decisions have bigger impli­cations than others (every­one knows one must choose carefully in the dining hall), these choices affect our lives on both a daily and long­term basis. 
Take, for example, one's choice to not do one's home­work: short-term effects include relaxation. napping, possibly even a seeing a movie or two; long-term effect<; include guilt, home­work build-up and lowered grades. Did this student choose wisely? Who knows? 

Christine Kraly 
associate news editor 
Choices in one's life are made solely on one's innermost desires and feelings. Whether moved by want or even guilt, life's d~cisions represent a person's whole character. In that respect, how can any choice be wrong? 
I've questioned my choices a lot this semester. From first applying to study in Washington, D.C., next semestt?r. to writing an antagonistic column criticizing the University. my decisions have often bAen based upon passion and emotion, not rea­son. 
Never once. though, have I regretted anything I've done. Because of my actions, I will spend a full semester in one of the most (if not the most) influential cities in the world, and I've met some of the most helpful people at the University. 
Everything hasn't gone smoothly. though. Every move in life has repercussions, and I will have to face mine for choosing to study in 
Washington next semester. I won't see my friends now abroad for another semester. rcan't celebrate with my parents and my friends' par­ents at Junior Parents' Weekend (an event I'd been looking forward to for a long time). And I'll have to give up a work position next year that I've lusted after for months. 
I can't count how many times I've asked myself, Idiot, why are you going away? 
There's so much I'll be missing and so much I had planned for next year that will inevitably fall through. Life truly is full of hard choices. I had never really believed in the motto until now. 
The difference between choosing wisely and not is in what you use to make your decision. 
My roommate has recently encountered a moral dilemma: relax and let loose after a very long, very strenuous semester. or protest the death penalty .. 
Her heart and mind are at odds, each one fighting its respective cause. 
"J should go," she says, noting how much she is against capital punishment. "But I do want to go out." Her heart jumps into the debate. "What should I do?" she asks me, an anxious look of confusion on her face. 
My response to these problems is always the same: do what you want to do, not what you feel you have to do. 
Life is entirely too short to dissect every move, every word, every thought. What will we have left? 
What will mv roommate do? Her head and heart are still ~t war. What I tell her is to not live in regret. It is the worst sin one can commit. 
So choose wisely. Let your mind rest and your heart take over. It's the best decision you'll ever make. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News Scene Kate Steer Mike Vanegas Erin Piroutek 
• Graphics Tim Logan 
Amy Crownover 
Sports 

Production Mike Connolly 
Rachael Protzman Kevin Berchou 
Lab Tech 

Viewpoint 

Betsy Storey Brian Hobbins 
Th, Obscrv,,r (USPS 599 2-4000) is pttbli,hcd Mond,y ,hrough Frid:,y excepr during ex,m and vac:uion prriods. n,, Observer is a member of 1he }\ssoci,m:d. Press. AJI reproduction righrs"are reserved. 


THIS WEEK IN SOUTH BEND 
Wednesday  Thursday  
. Musical: "Joseph and  . Ari Exhibit: "Bygones;"  
the Amazing Technicolor  images and photographs  
Dreamcoat;" Ramada  by Ryan Flatau; Monroe  
Wagon Wheel Theater;  Museum; 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.  
8 p.m.  . Concert: Grace  
Community Wind  
Ensemble; Rodeheaver  
Auditorium; 7:30 p.m.  

Friday 
. 
Play: "Miracle on 34th Street;" Osceola Players; Battell Community Center; 8 p.m. 

. 
Exhibit: "International Trees;" Northern Indiana Center for History; 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. 


Saturday 
. Christmas Open House: 
Farmer's Market. 7 a.m. to 3 p.m. 
. Play: ''Cinderella;" Footlight Players; Footlight Theater; 8 p.m. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports

OUTSIDE THE DOME 
MIT questions use of dorm funds for strippers 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 

Should residents of a dormitory be forced to fund activities to which they might ob,ject? 
Reflecting national discussion over funding in American universities, residents of East Campus raised this question following a stripper party held in Talbot Lounge in November. 
Under East Campus' social pro­gram, each of the dorm's ten floors is asked to host a party in Talbot LoungA during the term. Each iloor receives funds collected from East Campus's mandatory house tax. 
Funds are allocated by the East Campus house government. East Campus's Second West floor took its turn hosting on Friday, Nov. 
19. Members of Second West, con­tinuing a hall tradition, decided to rent strippers for the party. Benjamin O'Connor; former chair­man of Second West, stated that, although support for the party was not unanimous, "it was a foregone conclusion that [the stripper partyJ was going to happen." 

A total of four female strippers were present at the party. 
Segments of the audience were uncomfortable with the intensity of the strippers' performance. "[The strippers] were a little more hard­core than I expected," said Kristin Raven, a Second West-resident. 
Other party attendees who doclined to be named said that the show was more intense than in prior years. 
Defenders of the party stated that every hall at East Campus has the right to use its apportioned money in the way it chooses. Jennifer Frank, president or East Campus and the Dormitory Council, argued that the advantage of East Campus's social program is that each hall has autonomy to decide what type of party it will hold, exposing the entire dormitory to the diversity of its residents. 
Mary Ann Rasku objected to hav­. ing a portion of her house tax fund the strippers. 
"I don't think stripping should be outlawed. I just think.[Second West] should go off-campus and use their own money," said Rasku. 
U of Montana buildings inaccessible 
MISSOULA, Mont. 
Disabled students still can't get into some University of Montana buildings despite a federal law passed a decade ago requiring all university classes and programs to be accessible to all registered students. UM's transition to compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act suf­fered a major setback when funding was cut out of UM's budget last spring, leaving the university with no way to correct the accessibility problems for two years, said Jim Marks, Disability Services for Students director. The ADA, passed in 1990, requires that all public institutions and businesses make their programs and services acces­sible to disabled people. The university asked for $2 mil­lion to fund accessibility projects, but the money was cut by the Legislature, Marks said. Marks estimated that making the entire campus accessible would cost $6-7 million. "UM and the Montana University System did the right thing asking for money and the government and the Legislature turned their backs on it," Marks said. "We funded the highest priorities that we could with what we had," said Erik Burke, governor's policy adviser on education and labor. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeather"'forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

~,r0)_--"® d ~ ~ (f ~ u 
.......... , ....~....~ :._._:. +.-;::·.;::• -::..-::..--:.. 
Showera T-storms Rain Flum•s Snow /co Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy Via AssocialfKi Press GraphicsN.t 
Michigan pledge injured by BB gun 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. 
A first-year student and Alpha Epsilon Pi pledge is awaiting surgery after another fraternity member allegedly shot him in the groin with a BB gun Monday morning. The University of Michigan placed the local chapter on immediate suspension to investigate what university officials are calling a "possible hazing" inci­dent. The 19-vear-old student, whose name has not been released. ·is in fair condition at University Hospitals and is scheduled to undergo surgery today. The accident was an apparent pledge activity gone awry. A person at the fraternity called the Ann Arbor Police Department at about 12:30 a.m. to report the incident. Shortly after, the student was transported to the hospital by fraternity members, said AAPD Sergeant Michael Logghe, who is investigating the case. "Evidently they were taking a Crossman pump-type BB gun and shooting it at the groin area" of pledges," Logghe said. According to Logghe the shooter claimed he had checked the gun and found it to be empty. The gun had been fired at six other pledges before the student was shot. "There was evi­dently a BB lodged somewhere in the gun," Logghe said. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 

......... .........
C 1909 Aecuweather, lnc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
i'NHUl'f: 
® © D ~' 


High Low Showera Rain T-atonna Flurrle• Snow lco Suni,y Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via Aa•ocU1.rl/lld f'r11s.s 

Wednesday, December 8, 1999 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Students bring art to local elementary school students 

ERIN LARUFFA/The Observer 
A Notre Dame student gets creative with a St. Adalbert student. A Notre Dame art class visits the school weekly to share knowledge with first through eigth graders. 
WOOL SUITS 


$249.00 
www.droeges.com LaPorte, IN 
219-362-3615 

$ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 
:  SUMMER RESEARCH GRANTS  
$  for Undergraduates  
$  and  
$  SEED MONEY GRANTS  
$  ,,  for Graduate Students  
$  

$ $ $ $ $ $ 

$ $ $ $  Several grants are awarded each year by the Kellogg Institute for up to $3,000  
$ $  Don't.1niss this opportunityto do research abroad!  
$  
$  For program descriptions and forms visit  
$ $  vvww.nd.cdn/~kellogg/ or 216 llesburgh Center  
$ $  Undergraduates: Vi:)r further info contact Prof. Michael Francis at l-5203  
$  or 200 Security Bldg.  

: 
$ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 
$ $ 
$ $ 
$ $ $ 
$ 
$ $ $ 
$ $ 

$ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 
By ERIN LARUFFA 
News Writer 

On Wednesday afternoon, tho halls of the ·st. Adalbort Catholic grade school in South Bend will become an art gallery. 
A display will feature pieces the school's students created with help from Notre Dame art theory and design students this semes­ter. The undergrads, taught by professor Catherine Poole, worked every Friday afternoon with first through eighth graders 
"You see kids who never get the opportunity to have art ... It gives them another opportunity to express themselves," said junior Tom Hall, one of Poole's students. ''I love it." 
The class taught a sim­pler version of what they learned in class. 
"When Imy students] know they're going to be teaching, it 
changes 

"You see kids who never 
socks to
their whole 

get the opportunity to still lil'e
approach 

drawings
to learn­have art ... It gives them 
and self­
ing," Poole 

another opportunity to 
portraits.
said. 

express themselves. " The chil­
The pro­

dren also
ject began 

created
a f t e r Catherine Poole 
ornaments
Catholic 

professor
Charities call'ed the Center for Social Concerns looking for an art teacher for St. Adalbert. The CSC contacted Poole, who par­ticipated in service-learn­ing in the past. 
"The youngsters eat it up," said Sister Dian Majsterek, principal of the school. "It provides a won­derful kind of chaos and confusion." 
She added that her school's students bennfit from contact with college­age role models. 
"They're fun," third-grad­er Sairah Bottom said. "They teach us a lot of things we didn't know about in art." 
The college students also enjoyed volunteering. 
"It's a nice change from just being in a class," said sophomore El isaheth Parker. 
The snrvice <lxperience was so popular that it attractnd volunteers from outside the class. 
"I love it. When I first heard about it, 1 was really intrigued," said Anrlrea Rossignn, a Notre Dame senior who is not in the art class but wanted to volun­teer. "It really makes !the children's] w1rnk." 
Tho Notre Dame students create their own projects to do with the children. Projects ranged from tin-dyed shirts and wind­
f o r 
Christmas trees at Frank's Nursery on Grape Hoad. 
Although last week was the final session for the current design class, stu­dents taking the course next semester will also teach at St. Adalbert. 
Participation in the ser­vice-learning project con­stitutes one-third of each college student's grade, said Poole. 
SUB movies to change location in January 
Observer Staff Report 

Movies sponsored by Student Union Board will be shown in 101 DeBartolo rather than in Cushing Auditorium beginning next semester, said Joe Schellinger, director of Academic Space Management. 
The movie venue will relo­cate, because of Cushing ren­ovation. The auditorium will be turned into a multi-disci­plinary learning center for the College of Engineering, 
S~~elli~ger sai~l. We re excited because DeBartolo 101 is a very nice room," Scbellinger said, not­ing that the room's stadium seating will make viewing easier for moviegoers. The first showing in DeBartolo is at 10:30 p.m. on Thursday, Jan. 20. 
"OH HEY, BAILEY" 

"HAPPY BIRTHDAY, DONKEY" 
page 4 The Observe" . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, December 8, 1999 
SUB: Small turnout exemplifies problem of student apathy 

Church 
continued from page l 
poorest countries, Santoni said. The announcement came in part from pressure by churches, international organizations and a call by Pope John Il for internation­al debt relief. 
"Restoring justice and par­ticipating in acts of forgive­ness are key Jubilee themes," said Keith Egan, professor of theology at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. "The pope has called upon wealthy nations to for­give the crushing interna­tional debts that plague many third world countries." 
Egan noted that John Paul II wrote an apostolic letter, "On the Coming of the Third Millennium," which theology faculty and students have studied in preparation for the new year, Egan said. 
"Jesus has come to bring good news to the poor, release to captives, sight to the blind [and] freedom to the oppressed," said Egan. 
Notre Dame began on­campus activities in prepa­ration for the Great Jubilee last spring. A special Holy Year Door was designated at the Basilica. The door, at a side, front entrance of the Basilica, is locked and will not be opened until a special ceremony on Christmas Eve. 
The door stands as a sym­bol of Christ, who is the por­tal to eternal life, said Father Peter Rocca, rector of Sacred Heart Basilica, Those celebrating the Great Jubilee, he said, should use their experience in conjunc­tion with prayer, confession, celebration of the Eucharist and works of charity. 
At Saint Mary's, the main door at Le Mans Hall, which also acts as a Holy Year Door, has remained 
"The year 2000 is not just another year on the calen­dar like any other," Santoni said. "It's a special chance to re-energize our faith lives and celebrate the love God has for each of us through existing relationships ... and through new ones with those in need." 
Santoni said prayer ser­vices, rallies and social action campaigns will occur through out the spring and fall semesters of 2000. 
"[The) .Jubilee is about ... 
restoring 
your view to 

sealed "Restoring justice and a final end," 
since last said Pax
participating in acts of
fall. Saint Christi mem­
Mary's forgiveness are key ber and president Jubilee themes." Notre Dame Marilou student Eldred Sheila 
Keith Egan

believes McCarthy, S a i n t theology professor who empha­
Mary's students are called to become Jubilee women and has promoted the notion since her arrival at the College more than two years ago. 
Campus groups including ND Right to Life, Global Health Initiative and Pax Christi have worked with Campus Ministry and the Center for Social Concerns to plan various events leading up to and during the Jubilee year. 
sized the role 

of the Jubilee in restoring relation­ships and overcoming apa­thy toward problems that face humanity. 
More details about the Great Jubilee and how the Catholic Church is celebrat­ing it can be found at www.nccbuscc.org/jubilee , which provides online infor­m a ti on from the National Conference of Catholic Bishops and the United States Catholic Conference. 
By ERICA THESING Associate News Writer 

In a sparsely attended open forum last night, Student Union Board members spoke on the challenges of getting campus participation in tlrnir 11vents. 
The forum, which SUB intend­ed as a dialogue about pro­gramming concerns, drew little participation from students. 
"This is exactly the type of apathy we come up against all the time. We try to do things for the students and only a few show up," said Ross Kerr, SUB manager. 
The few students who did attend were generally support­ive of SUB's efforts to plan cam­pus events. They praised SUB and blamed low attendance on their apathetic classmates. 
Sophomore Julie Perla said the apathy stems from a lack of diversity. She noted that Notre Dame students seem hesitant to try new things. 
"I really think it's a problem with the student body." she said. "There's definitely a lack of open-mindedness on this campus." 
The programmers seemed frustrated that their efforts go 
unnoticed by the majority of 
their peers. As Kerr explained, 
the board exists to provide an 
education outside the class­
room. He said that Cowboy 
Mouth, whose concert generat­
ed little interest at Notre Dame, 
played for a sell-out crowd at 
Princeton University the f'ollow­
ing night. 

"ft doesn't make any sense," 
said Kerr, who has been 
involved with SUB fur four 
years. 

He said the apathy is nothing 
new. "It goes in waves, but it's a 
general apathy," ho said. 
"We're doing everything we can 
to combat it." 

Ho was not surprised by the 
small attendance Tuesday 
night. 

"It was an opportunity for the 
student body to come and let us 
know what they think," Kerr 
said. "By them not doing that, 
that says a lot to me." 

Kerr and Clare Pistey, direc­
tor of programming for SUB, urged students to contact them via phone or e-mail with sug­gestions for increasing partk­. ipation. Meanwhile. they plan to continue with their program­
ming efforts. 

"We'll go with what we do 
best," Kerr said. 

Security will store bikes, valuables for students 
Observer Scaff Report 
Notre Dame Security/Police is offering free storage to off-campus students over Christmas break. 
Students can bring items such as televisions, laptop computers and VCRs to the Campus Security building from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. on Thursday and Friday. Valuables will be stored in a locked and alarmed room during the break. 
Local police departments also offer a Vacation Home Watch ser­vice. Officers make periodic checks of houses for signs of foul play. 
Labyrinth 
continued from page 1 
according to the Sisters of the Holy Cross. 
The Sisters of the Holy Cross encourage labyrinth visitors to choose a personal style to explore the labyrinth. 
"Some people skip, run, move very slowly and others listen to music," said Zugish. 
The labyrinth was finished July 
If their house will be completely unoccupied during the break, off­campus students can call the department with jurisdiction in their area. South Bend, St. Joseph and Mishawaka Police all offer this service. 
All students also can store their bicycles with Campus Security dur­ing the break. Bikes can be deposited at Gate D of Notre Dame Stadium on from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. Thursday and Friday. 
Students can reclaim their bikes any time, either at the end of break or when the weather warms up. 
1, and since its completion it has been in constant use for those seeking reflection in nature. By next week, finger labyrinths for those incapable of walking the labyrinth will be ready for use at the site of the labyrinth. 
The Holy Cross sisters have been continually improving the area around the labyrinth. 
"We're hoping to plant more flowering trees to make this a spot of beauty," said Zugish. "It's our millennium gift to the people of Sou.th Bend." 


Wcdneday, December 8, 1999 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Sistine Chapel renovations near completion 
VATICAN CITY 
TliP Vu f i1·il 11 coIII plHtcs its two-d rica de n•sloration ol' the Sisti1w Chapnl 011 Saturday with llrn dndication or ,rnwly bright l'rtiscoes rrnaHid by !lol.licdli and his JHH•rs mnni than liw t·P11lurins ago. Pop!~ John Paul II will pre­si<IP ov1ir llw :wrvin• C!!IDhrating the rnstora­tir111 of' Lill' f'rnscoPs, SCPtrns from tlw lives nf' .fpsm, a11<! Mos1•s that lino tlrn c.lmpiil wa.!ls bPllf'ath tlw bPt.t1~r-know11 frnscoes by Midic•langPlo ovcrlwad. In a prnvicw tour ol' tltf' d1111rnl last Wl'nk, it was apparent that rkaning nnd piltclring hav1• giv«'n tire wall frpscot'S Llw dPplh. rnlor and c!Ptail of tlrn car­liPr-ri•storc•d MkhPh111gpl1,s. 
Germany re-elects Schroeder 
BEHUN 
Ch;in('f'l!ur (;Prllard Sl'lmwdnr rallind his gowrning Social llt-morrals lwhind his roursn of cautious modPrnization Tuesday. winning n·-Plnetion as tlwir IPadcr in an unexpnctnclly strong votr-of' r·onlicknc:P al a party conven­lion. Visibly rdi1•vtid, Schro1•der dedarnd "the start of a rNtl upswing for our party" after struggling i'or months to convince thn Social l>Pmm-rats and mud1 of thn nalion of the nend for trimming GPrmany's cushy welfarn state. Th1! thren-day ronvcnlion that openrd T1wsday is (iesigned to point Cermany's oldest party toward thn nmv mill1\n11ium and help lift Schro1\dcr·s popularity out of a rncent slump. Hurrning unopposPd, Schroeclnr won 86 per­t'Pllt of t!w vott•s from 500 (!Plngatns -a vast i111prov1•11wnt ovt\r 7(, percent he polled whnn hn was elPrtPd chairman in April. J\lwad of t!i .' vol1•, lw plnadml for unily in a 1 l/2-hour ronv1mlio11 speech. 
Japan seeks death penalty for sarin bombers 
TOKYO 
l'ros1ic11lors sought the death penalty on Tt11!sday for two doomsday cull loaders Ut'.<'USl'd of spraying norvn gas in a deadly attark on Tokyo's subways, an official said. Toni Toyoda, :{I, and Kenichi Iiirose, 35, are on trial along with !\um Shinri Kyo guru Simko /\sahara and other cult membors in tho 11)!)5 rush-hour assault on a subway station in Tokyo's govnrnment district. The sarin attack kill1irl 12 people and sickened thousands. Prosecutors sought life imprisonment for the cult's driver in the attack, Shigeo Sugimoto, 40, said a spokesman for the Tokyo District Court who only gave only his surname, Kashima. National broadcaster NHK reported that prosncutors said Toyoda and Hirose desurved death because they participated dirn!'.tly, while Sugimoto had a lesser role. 
ltfhiidliitt¥MtM
Dow AMEx: 
830,02 ./ONES 1 0·2 :'>iiasd1111:
-1 I 8.36 
3586.92 · 40.91 

u NYSE 
635.08 -6.58 
S&P 500: 


Composite

1409_ I 7 Volume:11,106.65 -14.17 1,321,993,770 
VOLUME LEADERS 

GONIANX IICJtll ) SHMBI i fHltwl PlUCI 
rAHOO INC YHOO +.ll.il t6i1.1-B7, JU.DO vux !II<" vxsr -.CO.'H -3e' .12'50 52.00 NICi!OSOl"r COIIU' K8rT •l,•'37$ 93.00 
--. ,-5

Ol~L COMPU'l'liA OJ:LL -tl.'1 ,..i,. 6300 f5. 38 CIICO IVSTJ:N'R ('!ICO .J-3. 31 ..,3. 2.500 101.50 AT tlOIIII: co~, ATIIII -SI.U -&.:5000 .u.,o CtutA COH· Cl<N . :iJ.611 •ll.075 60.0, tN'TltL Cb*I' , ...c -.U -.u,o .,., .19 NCl WOll-1.l)COtt >ICON -.''1 -.5515 71.]8 
<;YQIJU• INC "' craoi .,,.,,, +!. 7500 18.00 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES 
Associated Press 

PASADENA, Calif. 
NASA abandoned any real hope Tuesday for the miss­ing-in-action Mars Polar Lander and promised to investigate every aspect of the failed mission and delay ruture expeditions to the Red Planet if necessary. 
The last, best chance to make radio contact with the spacecraft yielded only silence early Tuesday. A somber Richard Cook, the spacecraft's operations man­ager at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory, said the flight team had "played its last ace." 
NASA said it will under­take a complete review of its ambitious Mars program, which has now lost three 
RUSSIA 

Grozny residents hide from soldiers 
spacecraft since 1993 -two of them in back-to-back fail­ures over the past three months. 
"Clearly something is wrong, and we have to understand it," NASA Administrator Dan Goldin said. "It is conceivable that we will completely change our approach." 
Critics have accused the space agency of trying to do too much with too little money with its "foster, bet­ter, cheaper" approacb to spaceflight, in which small­er, less expensive probes are launched more often than in the past. 
NASA officials agreed Tuesday that goals may be too high, but they stopped short of saying they would seek more funding. 
"The thing we will not do is use this as an excuse to have a raid on the federal government," Goldin said. 
Mars Polar Lander was on a mission to study tho atmosphere and search for water. which could help sci­entists determine whether life ever existed on Mars. But NASA hasn't heard from the spacecraft since it attempted to land on Hed Planet on Friday. 
Over four days and six opportunities to make con­tact, NASA methodically eliminated possibilities that would explain the lander's silence, including a mis­pointed antenna or a com­puter reset. 
Among other possibilities: It crashed, burned up in the atmosphere, or was doomed by landing in a bad spot on the Martian soil. 
President Clinton and other leaders were "promptfld by kind intentions." 
Moscow announced Monday that it would opon a safe corridor for civilians to flee Grozny, but jets bombed the city Tuesday, making it dangerous Lo move. There was no confir­mation whether a safe cor­ridor existed. 
Associated Press Television footage showed a trickle of' people -mostly women, mostly on fool ­leaving the city. Russian riot troops checked docu­ment,c; and frisked the men. 
orldNation 
page 5 

Efforts to reach it will con­tinue for about two weeks, but no answnr is expecte1d. 
I\ Ni\SJ\ failure review board will be asked to explore whether e111)ugh was known about the land­ing site, if the spacecraft was adequately designed and whether NJ\SJ\ had enough money to achieve il'i goals. 
The investigation could delay the next mission to Mars, which is now sched­uled for 2001. 
Mars Surveyor 2001, con­sisting of an orbiter and lan­der, is similar to the Polar Lander and the also-lost Mars Climate Orbiter. 
"Everything is on the table,.and we're not going to just go rushing olT, build a spacecraft just to meet an arbitrary deadline," Goldin told The Associated Press. 
A hunched woman carried a bundled child on her back. 
Clinton, Furopnan Union fornign ministers and thn United Nat.ions refugBc agency criticized thn Hussian plans f'or Grozny, saying they would seriously taint Russia's irnag11 abroad and risk civilian lives. 
"Hussia will pay a heavy price for those actions, with each passing day, sinking more deeply into a morass that will intensify extrem­ism and diminish its own standing in the world," Clinton said Monday. 
Associated Press 

AC! IKOI-MAHTAN 
I liding in basements, ter­rilind n~sidents of Grozny on Tuesday remained mostly unaware of Hussia's ultima­tum to flee or risk being killed by a massive atlack on. the Chechen capital this weekend. 
Many civilians in Grozny have been too scared to venture outside amid the current relentless Russian bombing, so many have not seen the leaflets dropped-by Russian planes Monday car• rying the lhreat of the air and artillery assault set to begin Saturday. Strong winds also reportedly whisked many uf the leaflets away. 
While word of tho ultima­tum reached world capitals and provoked outrage in the West, Grozny's resi­dents have no access to news coverage about the threat, as the shelling has wiped out television and radio transmitters. 
Hussian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin bl'.ushed off the foreign criticism, saying calls for restraint by 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, December 8, 1999 
Notre Dan1e recognized for service in Templeton guide 
. Exclusive list commends the University's service commitment 
By KA TE NAGENGAST 
News Writer 
On the 10th anniversary of "The Templeton Guide: Colleges that Encourage Character Development," the foundation has again recog­nized Notre Dame, this time with five citations for excel­lence. 
Overall institutional distinc­tion, presidential leadership. the Academic Code of Honor, the Alliance for Catholic Education {ACE) and the Center for Social Concerns (CSC) were all mentioned for programming excellence. 
"We arc quite pleased about this continuing distinction for the University," said University spokesman Dennis Brown. "We think it says a lot about what the University tries to do, that is, provide the student body Notre Dame's work in this area with an education that is based is most impressive ... a model in large part on issues of char­for colleges and universities acter and goes beyond the nationwide," Schwartz contin­books." ued. 
Notre Dame's mission aligns In fact, Notre Dame was one 
well with that  of  only  20  
of the Templeton Foundation.  "The Templeton Award elevates our program as  universities to be honored both institu­ 
Arthur Schwartz, director of  a model program across the country. "  tionally on the Templeton Honor Roll  
Character  and  for  the  
Development  Stuart Green  quality of its  
Programs  at  English professor  presidential  

the founda• t i o n . explained, "With the Templeton Guide, we hope to help prospective college students and their parents who want to know what colleges are doing to promote the core values of honesty, self-control, respect and service to the less fortu­nate. The Templeton Guide identifies colleges that encour­age students to understand the importance of civic responsibil­ity, which will help them suc­ceed in college and beyond. 
"[Father Edward Malloy] and 

SECURITY BEAT 
Minor in possession/consumption 
Friday, Dec. 3 
11 :30 p.m. Security issued a University citation to a Pasquerilla West resident for minor in consumption of alcohol. 
Saturday, Dec. 4 
4:04-a.m. Security issued a University citation to a Keenan Hall resident for minor in possession of alcohol. 
6:28 a.m. Two Stanford Hall residents were issued University citations for minor in possession ofalcohol. 
Theft 
Friday. Dec. 3 
5:20 p.m. An off-campus student reported his car stereo stolen from his locked vehicle while it was parked in the COl parking lot. 
Saturday, Dec. 4 
10:45 a.m. A visitor reported the theft of her purse from the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
11 :34 p.m. A University employee reported the theft of his wallet. The case is being investigated further. 
Injuries 
Sunday. Dec. 5 
3:00 a.m. Security transported a Farley Hall resident to the University Health Center for treatment of a laceration. 
4:48 p.m. A Lewis Hall resident was transported to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of a knee injury. 
CORRECTION 
In Tuesday's issue, the vigil before the execution was said to be Thursday, midnight to 1 a.m. The actual date and time for this event is Wednesday, 11 p.m. to 12 a.m. 
University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
George Frideric Handel's 
~ESSIAH 
University of Notre Dame Chorale & Chamber Orchestra 
8:00 p.m. 
Thursday, December 9, 1999 Friday, December 10, 1999 
Washington Hall 
Open to the public. Admission: $6 Reserved Seats; $3 Students & Seniors Tickets available at LaFortune Box Office, 631-8128. 
leadership, a new criterion on this year's evaluation. 
Malloy was recognized t'or his continued dedication to teach­ing throughout his presidency and for his campus-wide pres­ence as a resident of Sorin Hall and as a celebrant at not only Basilica Masses but at dorm Masses as well. Malloy's national leadership was also noted by his work to combat substance abuse and promote service learning. 
Representatives of the three honored programs -CSC, ACE and the Academic Code of Honor -were also pleased to be acclaimed by the founda­tion. 
The Templeton Guide called the CSC "a living model of Gospel values and Catholic social teachings through educa­tion P:xperiences." 
Jim Paladino, associate direc­tor of CSC credited the students for the honor. "We arc obvious­ly very pleased to be acknowl­edged. This award affirms the fact that the students here at Notre Dame take an exception­al look at poverty and injustice. They don't just consider chari­table giving, but they really try to make and impact and change systems." 
Cited under the category of faculty and curriculum initia­tives in the guide, ACE was praised as an innovative teacher-training program that is "shaping talented new lead­ers for the future of education." John Staud, director of ACE, said, "We are thrilled to be honored in such distinguished company. I think that just to be recognized nationally like this may help our recruiting, [because] now we are on the radar screen as a recognized name. This can only help as we continue to try to make a national impact." 
The Academic Honor Code program has already felt that impact. . 
"This is a special honor because the Templeton Award elevates our program as a model program across the country," explained Stuart Green, associate professor of English and a member of the Honor Code roster. 
"I think it's this kind of noto­riety that has led to a number of different institutions contact­ing us about our Honor Code program. It's a good affirma­tion of what we arc trying to do here." 
In addition to these individual citations, Notre Dame's First Year of Studies, Campus Ministry, Alcohol and Drug Education Office, Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business and Erasmus Institute were featured on the Templeton Honor Roll. 
CHILDREN'S CHRISfMAS PARfY 
Friday, December 10 
7pm 

LaFortune BaHroorn 
All University affiliated families are invited to this special children's event to include: 
Dave Rudolf's Children's Concert 


Refreshments & Door Prizes with speclal guest... 
5ANfAf 

5pon.sored by Graduate .Student Union, .Stlident Activities and ffie Huddle. 


Wednesday, December 8, 1999 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
-~=============================================================================== 
Little Bit of SILICON VALLEY Right Here in The Town baffled by 
were wound­Deania Pruitt ed. though 
~ MARKETING www.informit.com classmate of Seth Trickey aware of any 
Maybe one doy we will sell cors, food and everything else you need. But right now, it's great ~~Is on 1exfbo~ks every day. You can sove up to 40%, ond you'U get.your books in 1to 3days. Not that you would, but don't sweat using ocredit card. VorsityBooks.com is 100% guaronteed secure. Try so~ng thct about onew SUV. 
SAVE UP TO 40% ON TEXTBOOKS. 
InformlT (www.inlormil.com1 is fast bacoming the ultimalt Online communit1 delivering valuable information. t&chnolo~y. comma,ca. rehmce, trainins and opinion lo IT proftss1on1l1 around th• world. To continue our m11s1on ol excellence. we are surchrng for amg1lic. internet savvy cand1dal11 tor ontr,-lenl positions in the following areas: 
.-PROGRAMMER ANALYST .-PROJECT MANAGER ~ DEVELOPMENT ~ HUMAN RESOURCES 



none of their injuries was considernd life-threatening. A fifth student was grazed by a bullet that ric­ocheted, police Chief Hicbard Slader said. 
"He was always nice to every­body. He was real popular. You would never have known him to do anything like this." said Deania Pruitt; an eighth-grade cheerleader. 
Authorities and the boy's lawyer have refused to release his name because of his age and because charges have not been filed. but schoolmates who wit­nessed the shooting identified the boy as Seth Trickey. 
"He was a 'no sir, yes sir' kid," said Tina Mayo, who lives across the street with her 13­year-old son, Michael. 

At these IC:­~we d;;.>:csi 
't 

school shooting
HEARTLAND 
sation and benefits package including medical/dental/vision insurance. pinned him
Gibson Middle "He was always nice to 
40Ukl plan and advaneement opporlunitius. Join us by submitting your School with against a
everybody. He was real
the gun his wall. and had
resum1 vii email In 1o~sll!info1mil.c001 or seno you1 resume lo: lnlo1mlT 
father had popular. You would never more ammu­
(EG-071. P.O. BOX 800!5, IHDIAHAPOUS. IH 48280-00IS. 
bought a fow have known him to do nition avail­years ago al a able. 
IT all begins with diversify: an Equal Opportunity Employer anything like this." 
Wal-Mart. Authorities Four students said thny weren't 
"We played football. Nintendo and hide and seek," Michael Mayo said of Seth's birthday party Friday night. 
Most young witnesses said the boy didn't say anything during tho shooting. But Justin Barnes told Tulsa TV station KOTV that the boy started yelling: 'Tm crazy. I'm crazy." Sheriff's Lt. Tim Brown said, "To our knowl­edge the boy never said a word." 
Police Chief Hichard Slader said the boy fired at least 15 times outside thr, school bofore a science teacher 
previous 
trouble 
involving the teen, who attended church reg­ularly. He didn't leave any notes, and his parents ha.vc rnfused to let him talk with police. Because of' his age, police need permission to qLws­tion Seth. Officers searched his home and several school lock­ers. 
Shaila Benjamin said she rode the school bus with the boy. "lie lived in a very nice, very pretty home. Lots of people liked him," she said. 
Prosecution as a juvenile could lead to a sentence as harsh as inr.arceration until age 21 or as lenient as being returned to the custody of his parents with instructions to undergo treatment. 
,, 
J:/W~ 

In return for your l11chnical mindpow,r. we of/11 ai;omp11titive compen· 
Associated Press 
FORT Gil3SON, u°kla. 

A day after witnesses said a 13-year-old shot four school­mates. friends and neighbors in this small rural town were baf­fled as to why a popular, church-going, honor-roll stu­dent would do such a thing. 
He liked video games, touch football and his mom's cookies. He had a birthday parly every year. 
And yet, on Monday, the sev­enth-grader allegedly opened fire outside the Fort 

page 8 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, December 8, 1999 

@@oron(!)@ •

TOMORROW! 
Mm~ ~~ N• 
LIVE IN CONCERT 
With college ID, must be 21 
Some tickets will be available at the door. 
NEW! A Lighter, More Diverse Menu: 
Our famous steaks plus more sandwiches,
CALL THE HERATLRND 
salads and pastas. Not only for special occasions. 
CONCERT RND EVENT LINE 219. 251. 2568 
222 S. Mic'1igan • South Bend • 219.234.5200
222 S. Michigan• South Bend• (219) 234-5200 
next door to Heartland
www.ACEplaces.com/heartland 

Seattle police chief resigns 
. Harshly criticized leader resigns after WTO protests 
Associated Prc55 
SEATTLE 

Seattle's police chief announced his resignation Tuesday, becoming the first political casualtv of the violent protests that disrupted the World Trade Organization con­ference. 
Police Chief Norm Stamper had been harshly criticized by civic leaders, police officers and others for his handling of the demonstrations last week that cost downtown merchants nearly $20 million in lost sales and propPrty damage. The protests got so out of hand that thfl National Guard was called in and a curfew was imposed. 
Stamper. 54, said he had planned to announce his 
retirement in "He has not been in touch 
Stamper and

January but 
with the rank-and-file." Seattle's
did so now in 
1,200 uni­

hopes of 
formed offi­

removing Mike Edwards 
cers h1Lvc

polilics from police union president 
often been 

the examina­
strained dur­

tion of what 
ing his nearly

went wrong. 
six-year

Mayor Paul Schell has also 
tenure. 
come under lir"c. But at a news 
"He has not been in touch 
conference with Stamper at his 
with the rank-and-file," police
side, he repeated that he will 
union president Mike Edwards 
not resign. 
said. "His style is to not have a 
Stamper said he will cooper­
hands-on approach. and I think 
ate in any investigation of the 
that has been a mistake." 
police department's role in 
Edwards said police officers 
dealing with the demonstra­
lacked crowd-control equip­
tions. However, he declined to 
ment such as smoke grenades 
answer several questions ~nd tear gas last week, and Tuesday about the rioting. found themselves on the streets He did say some accounts for days with little food or rest. putting blame on him were Police critics have also said inaccurate. "I don't accept the that fp,ar gas and rubber bullets label of either victim or mar­were fired indiscriminately and tyr." he said. that innocent workers, shop-
The mayor pers and resi• praised dents were Stamper for "/ don't accept the label swept up in his "sense of the arrests of
ofeither victim 
duty and more than 
sense of or martyr." 500 people responsibili­Nov. 30 and ty," and said Dec. 1.
Norm Stamper 
he had tried No serious
Seattle police chief
to talk injuries, but 
Stamper out of leaving when he was told of the chief's decision Sunday. 
Stamper's resignation. which takes effect in March, also fol­lows nearly nine months of tur­moil over the integrity of the police internal investigations section. Helations betw11en 
downtown 
merchants 
have reported mote than $2 million in proper­ty damage and $17 mill.ion in lost sales. · 
However, the police also had many supporters. 
. Bubert Locke. a criminal jus­tice expert at the Universitv of Washington, said police "had an impossible situation tu begin with" during the WTO meelin". "The judgment or most people is that the police maintained, with some exceptions, a fairly professional stance." he said. 
City Councilman Richard Conlin said ho was on the streets last week and found that officers were acting responsibly. Conlin praised Stamper as a community-ori­ented chief who had improved relations with minorities. 
Staniper also revealed in his letter of resignation to the mayor that because of the dis­order, President Clinton nearlv canceled his visit after months of calling the conference vital to 
U.S free-trade interests. 

,.,.,: ,,...: 
ls there a special someone in your life? 
Someone you want to impress? 
If there is, send them a special holiday reminder ofyour love. 
Send a (ANPY-6RM\ 
a decorated candy cane for only 5 0 cents. That is a small price to pay for undying devotion. 
Buv these festive treats at south dining hall entrance 
today from 5:30.-8:30 
p. p, 
Merry Christmas. 


Wednesday, December 8, 1999 The Observer . NEWS page 9 
Please recycle The Observer. Auction house sells 
25 Picasso paintings 
The Observer Ad Department would like to invite anyone who has dropped off birth­day ad pictures to please pick them up from. our office at B024 South Dining 
Hall. 
. Pieces belonged to late fashion mogul Versace 
By CAROLINE BYRNE 
Associated Press 
LONDON 

In an unusual auction, 25 Pablo Picasso works owned by murdered fashion designer Gianni Versace were sold off Tuesday at a standing-room­only sale. 
P a b I o 
"The market is very 
Picasso's Newman, "Young Girl strong and people are Sotheby's with a Boat," 
prepared to pay top senior director 
featuring his and specialist
prices for highly 
eldest daugh­in impression­ter Maya collectable work." ist and mod-holding a Prnist. art. model boat, For collec·
Helena Newmann
sold for $5.98 tors, the million. The Sotheby's auction house Versace auc­
ed at the height of the French improssionist's career -sur­passed the individual Picasso works in price. It fntched $29 million, also paid by an anony­mous tnlephone bidd(1r. 
The high pricn tags came on the heels of Sotheby's impres­sionist and modnrnist art sale in New York in November, which took in $242.6 million dollars over two days. 
"The market is very strong and people arc prepared to pay top pricns for highly r.ollectahle work," said llclena 
1938 oil painting. bought by an anonymous tele­phone bidder, was the highlight of Sotheby's auction of draw­ings and oils by the Spanish artist. 
Art lovers from around the world were lured to Sotheby's by the Picasso sale and a fol­low-up auction of impressionist paintings featuring Paul Cezanne's "Bouilloire et fruits," stolen in the United States in 1978 and recovered this year. 
The Cezanne still life -a pewter pitcher and fruit paint­
tion had the dual appNLI of buying a Picasso work I.hat was owned by a famous collector and design1ir, Newman said. 
Versace was killed in 1997 at his Mnditerrannan-style palazzo in Miami Beach. lie was shot twice in the head by suspected serial killer Andrew Cunanan, who latnr committed suicide. 
The designer's art collection included live oils and 20 draw­ings from 1902 to the 1960s. His family sold the Picassos to trim an enormous estate, fami­ly spokesman Lou Colasuonno said. 
Class of 2000. 
¦ ¦ 
COME CELEBRATE rrHE END OF THE SEMESTER AND CONGRATULATE THE DECEMBER GRADUATES 
FREE PIZZA!!! 
Senior Class Dinner at Alumni Senior Club! 5-7 PM on Wednesday, December 8 Then head over to the JACC to cheer for Men's hoops!!! * Donations will be accepted for the Adoption Network* 

Must be 21 to attend 
page 10 The Observer . NEWS Wednesday, December 8, 1999 
Judge denies stay of execution for death-row inmate 
. Fleenor faces Indiana electric chair tonight 
By MATT SLAGLE AssoLiated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 

A federal judge Tuesday rejected a bid to prevent the execution of condemned killer 
D.H. Fleenor. saying he is sane enough to die on schedule. 
U.S. District Judge David Hamilton said in his ruling he lacked jurisdiction to decide the appeal lawyers from the Midwest Center for Justice filed without Fleenor's consent. 
The petition asked Hamilton to stay the execution, appoint a psychiatrist to examine fleenor and hold a hearing to deter­mine whether he's mentally competent. The lawyers also asked to bo granted next-friend status, which would allow them to appeal Fleenor's senfonce on 
By A~JETT A McQUEEN 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Teen-agers who drink or use drugs are much more likely than others to be sexually active, starting sexual inter­course as early as middle school and with a greater like­lihood of multiple partners, a research group said Tuesday. 
With condom use among teens be,ing erratic at best, there is a fear that the combi­nation of substance abuse and sex could increase the 12 mil­lion new annual cases of sexu­ally transmitted disease. 
"In America, drinking and drug abuse are bundled with high-risk sex," said Susan Foster, who directed the report "Dangerous Liaisons: Substance Abuse and Sex" for the Center on Addiction and Substance Abuse at Columbia University. "Yet despite the high coincidence of substance abuse and sexual activity, remarkably few public or pri­vate prevention, treatment and counseling programs deal with this connection." 
In its report, gleaned from a variety of data on 34,000 teen­agers in grades 7-12, the research center admits it's not sure what comes first -the drinking and drug-taking or the promiscuity. In its analy­sis, the group factored oµt other reasons -such as socioe­conomic status or race -that are associated with either drinking or having sex but not necessarilv both and could have made the connection look weaker or stronger than it actually is. 
Rut the report suggests there could be some lessons from adults: adult heavy drinkers ­defined as about seven drinks a day over two weeks -are five times more likely than those who don't drink at all to have at least 10 sexual partners a year. 
Ben Smilowitz. a University of Connecticut freshman who often finds little social life on campus beyond drinking par­ties, said his peers are not only turning to drink because of his behalf. "We will continue to appeal 
But Hamilton said the lawyers his right to an independent psy­had not provided sufficient chologist at an evidentiary hear­proof of Fleenor's insanity to ing in federal court," said Carol justify a new look at the issue. Heise, a lawyer at the center. 
"Under  the  "Let's get to  
law, Fleenor is presumed  "We will continue to  the bottom of it. We're not  
sane. and there is no professional opinion to the  appeal his right to an independent psychologist at an evidentiary hearing  asking to pro­long this thing forever. We're asking that no  
contrary.  A  in federal court. "  one should be  
substantial  executed with­ 
volume of communica­ Carol Heiss  out resolving these issues."  
tions between  MidW,est Center for Justice  Barring  a  

Fleenor and the prison staff shows that Fleenor knows he is about to be executed and why," the judge wrote. 
ThP Indiana Supreme Court rejected a similar petition Mondav. 
Lawyers from the center said they will appeal Hamilton's rul­ing to the 7th Circuit Court of Appeals in Chicago on Wednesday. 
Study links teen sex with substance abuse 

stress, they also are imitating adults. 
"People see drinkir:ig as way of relaxing because that's what adults do," the 18-year-old said. "You go to a football game or hockey and see adults get­ting trashed." 
lie says more kids are drink­ing and therefore engaging in riskier behavior all around. · 
The report said drug-using teens are five times as likely to .have sex than nonusers, and three times as likely to have it with four or more partners, according to the two-year analvsis of data. 
A generation ago, the report said, fewer teens were having sex. In 1970, 5 percent of 15­year-old girls had sex; in 1972, 20 percent of 15-year-old boys said they had sex. In 1997, 45 percent of boys and 38 percent of girls said they have had intercourse .in their teen years. 
Joseph Califano, the research center's chairman, and a for­mer secretarv of health, educa­tion and "welfare unrlu President Carter, says the report shows parents must realize that today's teens more than ever are forced to make decisions about drinking, illegal drugs and sex as early as mid­dle school. 
stay from a 
federal court, only Gov. Frank O'Rannon ran stop Fleenor's scheduled execu­tion early Thursday morning at the Indiana State Prison in Michigan City. . 
"If the federal courts won't do it, by God, the governor ought to do it," said Heise. The governor refused to comment on the rul­ing until Wednesday, said spokeswoman Cheryl Heed. 
Several members of the clergy, including Pope John Paul II, have asked him to commute Fleenor's sentence to life in prison without parole. 
Bishop Dale Melczek of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Gary said the pontiff appealed to O'Bannon by letter, as he did in 1997 when he asked the gover­nor to grant clemency to Gary Burris. O'Rannon denied the request, and Burris was exe­cuted for the shooting death of an Indianapolis cab driver in 1980. 
Melczek said he didn't know whether O'I3annon would be more receptive in this case. 
"T believe we've put forth a very compelling reason and would pray that the governor would be moved to do so," Melczek said. "Beside prayer, I cannot think of anything else [we can do]." 
Phil Bremen, O'Bannon's press secretary, said the office has received a letter from the pope's Washington, D.C., repre­sentative, Archbishop Gabriel Montalvo. He also said the gov­ernor was still reviewing the case and had not decided whether to intervene or issue a statement on the matter. 
"As a matter of principle, he [the governor] will not wait until the last moment," Bremen said. 
Fleenor is scheduled to die for the 1982 shooting deaths of his parents-in-law, Bill and Nylaw Harlow, in Madison. 
Under state law, he is allowed to select 10 witnesses for his execution, but he has decided not to allow anyone to view his death, prison spokesman Barry Nothstine said. 
lie also hasn't ordered a last meal, which is usually served the night bel'orc an execution. and has not requested the pres­en co of family members or friends Thursday, which the state allows. 
"He's just not cooperating," Nothstine said. 

-,
ATTENTION STUDENTS: I 
WHY SELL YOUR USED TEXTBOOKS BACK TO THE BOOKSTORE FOR 
LESS WHEN YOU CAN SELL THEM DIRECTLY TO ANOTHER STUDENT? 
CAMPUSMONSTER.COM ALLOWS STUDENTS TO SELL THEIR USED 
TEXTBOOKS TO OTHER STUDENTS. YOU WILL MAKE MORE MONEY 
AND YOUR FELLOW STUDENTS WILL SAVE MORE! IT'S THAT SIMPLE. 
LOG ON NOW AND LIST YOUR FALL SEMESTER TEXTBOOKS AND GET 
ENTERED FOR THE CHANCE TO WIN YOUR NEXT SEMESTERS BOOKS 
FOR FREE!!!! THAT'S RIGHT. WE WILL HOLD A DRAWING ON DECEM­BER 30, 1999 TO FIND THE WINNER OF OUR" SEMESTER FOR FREE" CONTEST. YOU WILL RECEIVE 1 ENTRY FOR EVERY BOOK YOU LIST. 
THE MORE BOOKS YOU LIST THE BETTER YOUR CHANCES OF 
WINNING. 

WHEN YOU'RE THERE, GET THE LATEST SCOOP ON WHAT'S HAPPEN­
ING AT YOUR COLLEGE OR AT CAMPUSES AROUND THE COUNTRY. THERE'S ALSO A SECTION WITH UP TO DATE SCORES AND COLLEGE NEWS. 
FROM TEXTBOOK SWAPPING, COLLEGE APPAREL AND GAME TICKETS TO THE LATEST CAMPUS NEWS, IT'S ALL JUST A CLICK AWAY AT CAMPUSMONSTER.COM 
PUSfflODSTDA.COffl 
"'If we don't have it, you can't get it!" 
Want to know what's going on before anyone else does? Write for The Observer. Call Tim at 1-5323 


Wednesday, December 8, 1999 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 
Army private admits to murder charge 
. Prosecutor argues anti-gay motive in slaying 
Assod~ceJ Press 
FORT CAMPBELL. Ky. 

An Army private accused of bludgeoning a fellow soldier to death with a baseball bat went on trial Tuesday, with military prosecutors saying for the first time that the victim was killed bor.ausc he was thought to be gay. 
Pvt. Calvin Glover. 18, of Sulphur, Okla .. is r.hargcd with prnmeditatcd murder in the slaying of Pfc. Barry Winchell, 21, in July. 
Hnforc llw start of the court­martial. Glover admilted tii a lesser chargc of unpremeditated murdnr in hopes of rnceiving a lightnr sentence. But proser.utor Capt. (iregg Fnglcr pressed on with the court-martial, seeking to prove the 11111m snrious drnrgu. 
Engler said he would show prnmeditation by intrnducing nvidencu Lhat Glover hatns gays 
Experi ·ng wi aker? 
If you are a Freshman, Sophomore or Junior with Mac skills and want to work for a few hours a week call Brett Huelat at 246-1488 or stop by the Observer office in the basement of the South Dining Hall. You will not find a better job on campus! Great Pay!! Very Flexible! !f 
and suspected that Winchell was a cot. homosexual. Glover said that he had been 
"The overall feelings of hatred drinking before the attack and toward these classes or groups that another intoxicated soldier, shows the motive," the prosecu­Spec. Justin Fisher, encouraged tor said in describing racial, eth­him to use the bat to avenge a nic and anti-gay comments punch Winchell gave Glover attributed to Glover. during a party. 
Premeditated and unpremedi­"I wasn't really mad at him, tated murder carry the same sir. It was just a mistake, sir. I maximum sentence: life in was really drunk," Glover told prison without parole, plus a lhejudge. 
dishonorable  C  a  p  t  .  
discharge. Glover sobbed while  "/ wasn't really mad at him, sir. It was just  Th.omas Moshang, a -member of  
recalling the killing to the judge, Col.  a mistake, sir. I was really drunk. "  Glover's defense learn, said Fisher  
Gary llolland.  wanted  
He said he did  Calvin Glover  Winchell dead  
not know why he hit Winchell  private  but Glover merely want­ 
"at least two  ed  to  hurt  

or three times" with a bat dur­Winchell. ing the July 5 attack in their For monlhs, gay-rights advo­Fort Campbt>ll barracks. cates said anti-homosexual sen­
In his opening statement, timent at least contributed to Engler said Winchell actually the killing. but the military received up to live blows, whkh would not comment on that. camr. with such force that blood Winchell, who was from spattnrnd on the ceiling and on a. Kansas City, Mo., was perceived wall 15 feet away. The first as gay by some soldiers in his strike came as Winchell slept on unil, and friends said he had 

motio resume 
$$$$$ 
Work for the Observer Ad Design Department 

recently visited a gay bar in Nashville. 
Rhonda White, co-chair­woman of Lesbian & Gay Coalition for Justice in Nashville, was an observer at the court­martial. She said other gay­rights groups are al.so watching the case closely. 
"We want our citizens, gay and straight, to feel safe with members of the military coming into our community," she said. 
Fisher, 25, of Lincoln, Neb., who was Winchell's roommate, will be court-martialed at Fort Campbell on Monday, In addi­tion to allegedly goading Glover into attacking Winchell, Fisher is accused of lying lo Army investigators. 
Winchell, Glover and Fisher all served in the 502nd Infantry Hegiment's 2nd Battalion at fort Campbell, which straddles the Kentucky-Tennessee state line about 50 miles from Nashville. 
Winchell's mother and stepfa­ther, Pat and Wally Kutteles, issued a statement Tuesday regarding the "thousands of messages of support" they had received from soldiers and civil­ians. 
page 11 
Mich. man 
indicted 

on murder 
Assodaced Press 

AUSTIN, Texas 
An ex-convict in custody in Detroit was indicted Tuesday on charges that he conspired to kidnap Madalyn Murray O'Hair. the atheist leader who has been missing since 1995. 
A federal grand jury accused Gary Karr, 51, of conspiring with others to plot and carry out the kid­nappings and extortion of O'Hair, her son Jon Garth Murray and adopted daugh­ter Robin Murray O'Hair. Authorities have said the three were killed, but their bodies have not been found. 
Karr and others allegedly stoic more than $500,000 in money, gold coins, vehicles, watches and other jewelry from the O'Ilairs. The indictment docs not identify the other suspects. 
"Today's indictment is not the final chapter in this investigation," said Bill Blagg, U.S. attorney for western Texas. "We are continuing our thorough effort to make sure that jus­tice is served in this mat­ter." 
O'Hair is best known for a case that led to a 1963 Supreme Court decision that, along with a decision the previous year, struck down organized prayer in public schools as unconsti­tutional. 
O'llair and her two adult children vanished from San Antonio along with $500,000 in gold coins. Authorities questioned wlrnther they were victims of foul play or merely ran off with the money from their organization, United Secularists of America. 
Others suggested O'llair, who was 77 and ailing, had gone off to die quietly so Christians wouldn't pray over her. 
More than three dozen FBI agents -using dogs, a backhoe and a helicopter with night-vision equipment -spent several days last April searching a 5,000­acre ranch about l 20 miles west of San Antonio. But their bodies have not been found. 
In May, authorities said for tho first time that O'Hair and her children were killed, and that the crime was orchestrated by her former office manager, David R. Waters. in a plot to steal $600,000. 
Waters, who was convict­ed of murder in Illinois in 1965, and Karr were once cellmates. Karr served more than 20 years after a 1974 crime spree that included rape, kidnapping and armed robbery. 
Waters, 52. has been con­victed of skimming $54,000 from O'Hair's organizations and pleaded guilty to weapons charges after authorities found 119 rounds of ammunition in his Austin apartment in March. Ile is serving 60 years in prison. His attorney has said that prosecutors were wrongly trying to link Waters to the O'Jlair case. 



Wednesday, December 8, 1999
page 12 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
VIETNAM 
Flood death count rises to 114 
By Sunday, more than 5,000 -each with enough rice, Associated Press soldiers had been dispatched drinking water and noodles to to help relief efforts. · feed a family for a week. TAM KY "Without. their swift Carrying his 4-year-old son 
Thousands of soldiers and response, we could have suf­on his shoulders, Bui. Thi Hoa, relief workers flew over and fll red bigger," said Le Tri 27, was stoic about the flood­boated through Vietnam's Tap, the governor of Quang ing that destroyed his newly 
flood-ravaged central Nam province. Tap said replanted rice field. 
provinces on Tuesday, deliv­150,000 people in his "Ev~ry year the floods ering emergency supplies to province come. What can we do?" he some of the 1 alone still said. "We have no choice but 
million 'peo­n e e d e d to bear it."
"Without /the military's] 
ple who have emergency On Tuesday, floodwaters lost their swift response, we food but that had begun receding and the homes. could have suffered Tuesday's downpour had stopped in Torrential reopening of most places, but rain was still
bigger."
rains trig­Highway fo.l!ing in Quang Ngai. gered by a One, the Vo Cuu of Quang Ngai's cold spell Le Tri Tap country's provincial flood and storm have dumped governor of Quang Nam main artery, control bureau said 250,000 more than six would ease people in his province were in feet of water deliveries. need of emergency food. in some areas since Despite the rain, military The National Committee for Thursday, t1o(?ding hundreds helicopters were able to Flood and Storm Control said of thousands of homes. resume relief flights to Quang Tuesday that 5,395 houses 
At least 114 people have Ngai province Tuesday after­were destroyed and 397,232 died. noon, said Col. h o m e s The central provinces, home Vu Quoc Bao, were sub­to 7.5 million people, had only chief of the air "Every year the floods merged or 
damaged in
just begun recovering from force division come. What can we do? devastating floods last month. in Danang. the latest
We have no choice but to 
flooding.
The area include some of Other relief Vietnam's most well-known agencies also bear it." No out­
breaks of
destinations. from the white were at work. 
disease
sands of China Beach to the Racing along 
Bui Thi Hoa 
have been
ancient port city of Hoi An. Thu Hong 
Vietnamese farmer 
rescue River in a reported so
Vietnam's forces responded rapidly to the lat­speedboat far. 
T h e
est disaster. learning new Tuesday, Phan 
United States was dispatching
lessons from the November Tan Cat of the Danang Red 
Cross led 10 volunteers to seven medical specialists to
floods, which claimed nearly areas of Quang Nam isolated work with the International
600 lives. 
by high water. Red Cross and local experts toWithin 48 hours of the rain­
prevent any outbreaks, the
fall Thursday, military heli­Villagers in Duy Xuyen dis­
trict waded out in knee-deep U.S .. embassy said Tuesday.
copters were making airdrops 
of food to flood-stricken levels to collect the packages The team was to arrive handed out by relief workers Wednesday.
areas. 
IRAN 

U.S. trade sanctions hamper Y2K efforts 
Associated Press 

TEHRAN 
The U.S. trade sanctions against Iran are hampering the country's efforts to prepare for the millennium computer bug, Iran's top Y2K official said Tuesday, but he added that he did not foresee any major disruption. 
"Some [government] organi­zations told us they were try­ing to buy some U.S. equip­ment and parts, but they did not succeed hecause of the sanctions," said Mohammad 
Sepehri-Rad,  head  of  the  
Supreme  Council  for  
Information Technology.  

"They asked us to help them through international organi­zations, and we tried, but to no avail," Sepehri-Rad said at a Tehran news conference, with­out saying which organizations had been contacted. 
One of the companies that asked for help, he said, was the Arak oil refinery, a large facility in Iran's central Markazi province. It was the only oil facility that faced potential problems because nearly all of its equipment was 
U.S. made, Sepehri-Rad said. 
New Y2K compliant equip­ment was being installed at the refinery, he said, adding that he did not know if the new equipment was American­made, 
Most of Iran's technology 
was bought from the United States before the 1979 Islamic revolution. Iran, however, has been unable to get U.S. help to modify computer controlled systems for the millennium bug because of the trade embargo, which wus put in place following the 1979 takeover of' the U.S. Embassy in Tehran by revolutionary militants. 
Last week, Sepehri-Rad had warned his countrymen they could face breakdowns in the oil, electricity, communica­tions, transport and health sectors because of YZK. 
But Tuesday he modified that prognosis, telling reporters "no problem is expected in any Iranian orga­nization" because emergency plans had been put into place, and because all workers wern trained to perform computer tasks manually. 
"We do not expect any prob­
lem in oil exports, refineries 
and any kind of' oil and gas 
industries," Sepehri-Rad said. 
International Monitoring, a 
technology consulting group 
based in Britain, has ranked 
Iran as "moderately prepared" 
for the millennium bug. 
The bug is expected to hit 
mostly older computer systems 
and programs that recognize 
only the last two digits of a 
year. Such systems won't be 
able to distinguish the year 
2000 from 1900, leading to 
possible malfunctions. 
Not looking forward to finals? THEN COME JOIN US FOR THE 'CHRISTMAS AROUND THE WORLD STUDY BREAK' 7-9PM on Thursday, December 9 in the LaFortune Ballroom Gingerbread Cookies, Holiday Cookies, Christmas Cake, and Punch We will also have Christmas Carols and Christmas Movies Sponsored by: Student Government  


Wednesday, December 8, 1999 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 13 
. 
EAST TIMOR 

Timorese try to erase 
Indonesian influence 

Associated Press 

DILi 
Determined to erase symbols of decades of iron-fisted occu­pation, East Timor's leaders on Tuesday renamed Uili's main thoroughfare, which us,~d to honor the deceased wife of Indonesia's former dictator Suharto. 
Ilm Tien Suharto Road is now Rua dos Martirns da Patria. the street of martyrs of the home­land. The change came on the anniversary of Indonesia's 1975 invasion, which ushered in a quarter-century of brutal mili­tary occupation and resulted in Lhe deaths of tens of thousands of people. 
Nobel laureates Jose Ramos Horta and Bishop Carlos Belo, who jointly won the t 996 Peace Prize for their efforts to liberate the province, officiated at the simple ribbon-cutting ceremo­ny. 
It marked the start of a cam­paign to wipe out public refer­ences to Indonesian rule. Other street names will be changed, along with those of public buildings and utilities, officials said. 
In their first public appear­ance together since collecting the Peace Prize, Ilorta and Belo paid homage to those who had died during Indonesian rule. 
Suharto ordered his army to invade the former Portuguese colony after the failurn of sue­cessive attempts to covertly destabilize its new government. 
Some 2,000 East Timorese died in tho f'irst weeks of the occupation. which mnt with stiff resistance from a hastily assem­bled defensn force consisting of former colonial soldiers and armed citi:wns. 
Eventually, more than t 00,000 East Tirnorese died ­mostly of disease and fuminn ­as the Indomisian army mount­ed successivn scorclrnd-11arth campaigns aimed at rooting out the defenders. 
The Unitnd Nations never rnc­ognized Indonesia's annexation of East Timor. Aft1ir Suharto's fall in t 998, the Indon,~siun gov­crn men t agreed to a U.N.­superviscd referendum on Urn provincn's future. 
The people of East Timor voted ov<~rwhnlmingly for inde­pendence on Aug. 30. This was followtid by a rampage by Indoncsian troops and thnir militia proxies that destroyed much of the rngion. 
The violence ended with the arrival of an international peacekeeping force on Sept. 20. The province is now adminis­tered by tho United Nations, in preparation for full indnpen­dence within two to throe years. 
lbu Tien Suharto died of a heart attack in t 99(1. ·Suharto, now 78 and ailing, quit oflice in May 1998, ending 32 years in power. lie is being investigated on corruption allegations. 
The Development Phone Center gratefully acknowledges those who have supported its student NOTRE DAME ANNUAL caller incentive program. F U N 0 p~~ Beacon Bowl Office Max Bob Evans Restaurant Outback Steakhouse Bruno's Pizza North Papa John's Pizza College Football Hall of Fame Pizza Hut Francesco's Restaurant Pro-Form Bike Shop Fun Tan Inc. Shear Phazes Gap Software City Granger Tap & Grill, Inc. Sunny's Korean Garden Patio J.C. Penney Styling Salon Tippecanoe Place Macris Deli The Varsity Shop Hair Designers Marco's Pizza Wendy's of South Bend, Inc. Mazatlan Mexican Restaurant Wings Etc. Restaurant & Pub Michiana Paintball  

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE page 14 BSERVER Wednesday, December 8, 1999 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. !lox Q, Notre D•me, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Nocre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEI' Michelle Krupa 

MANAGING EDITOR  Bum,ESS MANAGEll  
M. Shannon Ryan  David Rogero  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  
Laura Petdle  

Ni,.ws EDITOR: Tim Logan VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughen SPORTS EDITOR: Brian Kes.ler 
SCENE EDITOR: Michael Vanegas SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Dalu111 
ADVERTISING M!\NAGEII: Rryan Lutz 
Ao OF.SIGN MANAGER: Bret Huelat SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kushto 
CON1ROLLER: Timothy Lane GRAl'HICS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING ..................................631-6900/8840 
obsctver@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF.......................................631-4542 MANAGING EDJTOR/AssT. ME.................... 631-454! BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS.... .....................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 

VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinr. l@nd.edu SroRTS........................................................631-4543 
observec.sports. l@nd.edu ScENE.........................................................631-4 540 observer.seene. I @nd. ed u SAINT MAAv's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEil ADMINISTRAT0RS.................631-8839 
THE 0SSER\IER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://obseroer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 

minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 

advertise for policies 
online features for spe­

and rates of prim ads 
cial campus coverage 

archives to search for 
about The Observer 

articles published after 
to meet the editors and 
staff

August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saine Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edimrials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Edicor and department editors. Commen~ries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
QueJtiom regttrding Observer policies should he direct­ed ro Ediw,-!n ChiefMichelle Krupa. 

The holidays are upon us. Hanukkah began on Saturday. Christmas is less than three weeks away. Kwanzaa fol­lows immediately afterward. 
Because of this, I have made a list of what I think people relating to Notre Dame need and what anyone close to these people might give them in this season of over­wrought commer­cialism. 
First on the list is the senior class. I think that they deserve a beer. ------­They have put up 
Random
with the overbear­

Thoughts
ing administration, self-absorbed pro­fessors and the mas­sive amounts of schoolwork for 28 of the last 40 months of their lives. Enjoy your last five months of collegiate life. Now, mind you, I said a beer. Be careful that you don't mess up your exams and your classes next semester to the point that you must return next school year in the cold, hard light of day and face the same people that you blew off in the previous semester. 
Second on the list is every other stu­dent. You get a pair of horse blinders to be worn during study days so that you cannot see the good time that the seniors are having. You have more time to recover from a bad set of exams, but slacking off is like eating potato chips: you don't even notice that you are doing it until you have demolished three bags and feel absolutely ill. 

Third on my list is self-·proclaimed "Coach D" and our revitalized basketball team. Matt Doherty, you gets a videotape of your win over Ohio State. For a brief moment. you brought Notre Dame bas­ketball back to where it was in the early Digger Phelps era. We know that you are capable of playing up to the level of your opponents. The question is, will you let your last four losses against good teams effect the way that you handle what should be a relatively easy non­conference schedule? 
Fourth on the list the other Coach . whose name begfos with a D. Sorry, but . you get another head coaching job 
somewhere else, maybe at Akron. There was recently a quote from Ara Parseghian in a Notre Dame football weekly that told of his 14 years of head-coaching experience prior to assuming the refos at Notre Dame. He said that he "needed every minute of it." The last completely inexperienced coach that we had was Gerry Faust. He went 7 -4 with Tim Brown, Allen Pinkett and Steve Beuerlein. I wonder if you had that kind of talent, that you might have done bet­ter. Coach, you didn't have the experi­ence to take such a visible position. Sorry. 
That brings me to the fifth recipient on my gift list: Athletic Director Mike Wadsworth. 1think that I would like to get you a metal plate to weld to your mouth. Between refusing to go to a lower-tier bowl years ago, annoying the Bowl alliance with unreasonable demands and making unacceptable excuses for this year's team, every time that you are quoted in the media you make the school look bad. I have heard 
of your comments during the Boston 
College game that indicated that we 
might turn down a bowl game that 
someone might pity us and throw our 
way. That, coupled with the cop-out 
excuse after the loss to Stanford that 
rightfully brought out the worst in a 
Chicago Sun-Times columnist serve to 
only further the public impression of 
Notre Dame as a bunch of elitist jerks. 
The sixth day of Christmas brings me 
to Father Malloy and the rest of the 
intolerencia. Unlike the underclassman's 
blinders, you need one of those laser­
corrective eye surgery appointments so 
that you might see more clearly that giv­
ing someone the right to present their 
views in an independent publication will 
not bring about massive homosexual 
orgies on the quads. It will also not bring 
about the end of Notre Dame's Catholic 
character to engage in discussion with 
people who do not agree with you. 
Finally, for myself I think that I will 
buy one of those "Ocean Sounds" relax­
ation tapes that I see advertised on late­
night television. After having read over · the last few entries onto my list, I think 
that I need it. · 
Well, that's it. Happy Holidays. Try 
not to stress too hard on exams and be 
safe until you return in January. 
Matthew Loughran is a MALA candi­
date at St. John's College in Annapolis. 
Md, who has not yet done any Christmas 
shopping and wonders if he will actually 
get around to it this year. 
The views expressed in this column 
are those ofthe author and rwl necces­
sarily those ofThe Observer. 
SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 
r::::================~7_2 r-::=====::::----:.-:..-:.:.:..:..-_-_-_-,-,
WEBMISTRESS MING 
1: ~ 
-

HOW DO 

r-::===========::::::----1!.· NORMALL'( I'D -u: ARE YOU 
SUGGEST DINOSAUR GETTING 
YOU SPELL
OUR WEB SITE 
1 PICTURES BUT t THIS 
"=4F%~!"?
NEEDS SOME 
1 THEY'RE TOO BIG j DOWN,
DANCING 
i -MING? 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The 'silly question· is the first intimation of some totally new development:· 
Alfred North Whitehead philosopher 

VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, De<.:cmber 8, 1999 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Scout teaID salute 
I'd lik1i lo takH this opportunity to say gom.l-by1• to som,i of my ti1am­mal1•s. I am only ujunior but I foe! as though I have lost somfl of my brst f'rirnds. Last wcPk marked the PIHi of l.lw l lJ'J') foothall s1iuslm u.nd 1111 1•11d 111" a :i-] ycur· rnn by 15 indi­viduals whll gavn up tlwir Lime and sarrilicf'd their hodil's for a, mon• oll,·11 than not. thankh•ssjnb. I am saying good-by,• lo sonw of' the most dntnmitwd individuals rmrol!Pd at Notn• Danrn, whom wry fow 1woplc k1111w. They never got the glory. Th1\y 1Hw1•r g11t the intPrvkws. Thny nnwr got tlw scholarships. I Iowever. what thesn uwn. und I stn•ss nrnn. gained was an cxperi1~ncn and an emotional Pducation that will lwlp thrm for !hP rPst of tlmir livm,. I am saying good-hy1i !11 tlw walk-on Class of 19'J'J. 
v\'ithin this artir.lo, I send oul som11 fH•rsonal nwssages t11 my t1iamm11tos lhat co11tai11 a fow insick jokns. If you don't undcr­sla11d, I encouragr you to read on. I ,rncouragp, you more to ask any one of thes1• simiors as they arc great storir.s. (It would be aclvantag,ious for me to mm1tio11 now that I am writing a book chronicling the t•xperi1l11ces of a walk-011. I won't giw anything away now, but it is a must-wad and a guanmwPd hrst sellt'r. l'uhlishPrs. fod f'rnti to con­
tact nm!) 
In my formal good-byes. I'd just likn Lo l1•t my teammates know that tlrny an• my hrotlwrs. It would be hard not to b()conw so dosn to indi­viduals whom I spnnt Urn majority of my days with, bier.ding, sweating and sacrilicing. Although not pic­turt•d in tl111 Mt)dia Guid11 and always last in the pro1-,rram, tlrny w1m1 all invaluable to the team and will be missr.rl. Cood-by11 to: , 
Anthony Brnnnon: i\lways one play from !ming in the "show." Goud luck if you're back for a lifth. 
.lames Caputo: You were a true walk-on hero! "Look out for that wind." 
Brendan rarrnll: \-\'hat's the countdown at now bodybuilder'! The potonlial leader of the walkout. 
l'.ric Glass: Sorry you couldn't be there in the end. You never received the propnr sm1d off for your effort. At least I will say, "Thank ynu, you did great, you'll be missnd." 
Mike Grady: "How you doing Chris ... I mean Mike ... or is it Chris'> ... um mm ... What y11ar arc you Chr ._. Mi ... buddy?" It's a good thing you chose a red shirt freshman year. 
l>an Kerry: You wcrn around long PnrlLigh to sen what it truly means to be a Notre Dame walk­on. 
Chris Leck: Kenny, my b11st friend, I'll miss you most of' all. llemcmber that time when a cer­tain coach thought that you were ;. trninPr'! Ila ... that was funny! 
Brendan O'Connor: Professor, 1w1m with the scholarship you rnmainrd "onn uf us." Now, how ab11ut 011n morn wmlge stup for old linw's sake'' 
Joe HocondPz: i\.lthough you \'\ill be hack for a fifth, I utwavs wanted to sen "Girls' l.ucrosslitut;)" in print. 
Mark HulP: "lfo ready to go in, IH't l'itt.shurgh is out of tho question c1111sitliiring Clnvela11d is closr-r tu St1tnfor<! nnd all!" Wanna play ha.111-,'lmm'? D ~ I S _ (l l!NT: It's 11 vowP.I.) 
John Schinglcr: You had the best season of' your career in 1999. 
nave Shenk: While you may be crazy, you always gave 100 percent 
every µlay. t-lVfffY day. Mike Tribfl: Long live tht> yellow jcrsoy! 
-Noah Vanllook-Drucker: Monday: "Noah. you've got to start coming 1.o meetings! Srriously. you'rn going to play this week." Thursday: ''N_?ah, go with thn scnu ts today. _ 
.Jonathan I lehert: "Damn it lleb1!rt! You arc the only player who is going to leave Notre Dame wurso than whP11 he came lrnre1" You are a walk-on god. You arr liv­ini tlrn walk-on dream. Nobody trind hardor and nobodv worked harder than you. P.S. I still think that .foe "punked" you on that date with a certain female athlete. 
l•or all of you who do not know, Jonathan I lebt!rt was planning on coming bu.ck for a fifth year ucxt year. However. just recently he had an MHI and learned that he could no longer play. I!'you see him, thank him for his efforts. If evAry­onc playod like him, Notre Dame would be a different team. 
With all of this said, I would like to address the senior walk-ons as a whole. I know what it means to bf' a walk-on but I don't think that the average student or fan truly under­stands or appreciates all of the sac­rifices that vou have had to make in your years herfl. We are not Rudy nor do we want to be. When everyorni was going out, you were studying. 18 tTedits, HOTC, or premed and 6 hours budgeted for football make for a long day. Thank Gud for group meetings and pre­sentations. 
Tim locker room will be empty without you. It is both joyous and saddening. No morn scout meet­ings. No more walks-of-shame. No morn ydlow jerseys. No more spe­cial teams (this is a good thing). No more inside drill. No more camps. No morn "young guys." No more Micky. No more being asked for tickels. No more conditioning, No more issue gear, a.k.a. proof. No more periods. No more cards. No more pranks. No more gold hel­mets. No more pep rallies. No more boing mistaken for managers. No mom laughing. No more crying. No more drncring. No more concus­sions. No more third team. No more tunnel. No more baud. No more yelling for the old alumni to stop sitting on their hands and cheer. 
It is time to enjoy. It is time to be a fan. Go out on Fridays (not like you didn't before). Tailgate on Saturday. Hellect on your years. Tho Dome will shine brighter when viewed in your rearview mirror. Relive the chills down your back when you walked out the tunnel for the first time. Did I say tailgate? Cheer for the walk-ons as they walk from North Dining Hall ..-to the Basilica on Saturday. Wear your plaid Notr~ Dame pants. Storm the fir.Id. Attend pep rallies. It's time tn cherish the memories. · You have all heard over and over how lucky you arc to bo on the team, but I say to you, tho Notre Dame football team was lucky to have had you. There is nothing you will nxperience for the rest of your life that will be harder than this. You made it! You never let "it" beat you. You've mceived your letter and jackerthat was deserved the first week of your first season. It is time for me to say good-bye and thank you. It is period 24 for the last time. 
Jascint Vukelich 
Junior 
Off-Campus 
December 6, I999 

okstRVER page 15 
Martinez responds to letters 
First, I apologize to I.he woman who was raped, to all raped women (The Observer, let­ter to th1~ editor, 12/3/99). You are not respon­sible for the brutality o!'rapist beasts. Hape, I 
think, is _about pow~r and Gabriel not sex: 1t maUers httlo 
Martinez

what a woman does, the rapist wants to anirm his 
like Arrows

nil sense of self-worth. Second. I value wom1m 
in the Hands 

immensely. That is why I ofa Warrior exposed myself to vilifica­tion, because I am sick and tired of the men who do not care for women's dignity (or their own) and try to seduce womfln lo whom thfly are not married. Women, if you wish, throw stones at me. But. please, know that you are worth dying for. 
Third, I know that women do not always dress with a man in mind. That is precisely my point: men do care about how you dress. and that affects you. When you show much of your body, the natural male reaction is to focus on your body. Even if you do not intend it, you make men interested in a part of you, not all of'you. Maybe you feel comfortable in short skirts and tight tops. I don't know. But I value you enough to tell you: "Know your effect on men_" 
Fourth, the man who seduces you is to blame for his seduction. But before you cast the first stone, think about whnther you (unin­t,-mtionally) are st.tggPsting something to the man. 
Fifth, women nelld to demand rPspect, not prove that they deserve it. They worn born deserving respect.. Make sun~ that mt!ll know that, by the way you dross and act. 
Sixth, my poor offonded co-males. There am three types of men: "the pigs. the good guys, and the guys in bet.ween." I am one of the guys in betw11cn. I have somA sell'-control, but not !mough. I want to liv" a good life, a holy lif'e. I know what it is lil...1. ,, f'11el seducod by a tight dress. You arc not. ~oin~ to fool me, 1)r the women that read thi-;. inl.o thinking that you are not. 
Seventh, I apologiw for the use of the term "damaged goods." It was an insensitive term. Moreover, I did not want to classify women into one group or another. Ijust wanted to tell you how men do look at you. 
Gabriel Marlinez is an economics graduate student. 
The uiews expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Foster parenting fosters love 
My mom is a sucker for babies. But after four babies of her own, she and my dad decid­ed they were through, and set to work raising my brothers and me. 
Then when my youngest brother Patrick was three, she got restless. When she saw an ad asking for foster parents, she knew that was what she wanted to do. After a year of training, interviewing, and licensing, we were a registered Catholic Charities emergency foster family, specializ­i[Jg, at my mother's request, in newborn to three-year-olds. 
Some of the children who come to us stay for a couple of weeks. some for a couple of months. As an emer­gency foster family, they aren't supposed to stay more than three months, but my mom always says that she isn't going to make a child leave unless the agency has a good home for him or her. So my three biological brothers and-I all adjusted to having new brothers and sisters in the house all the time. 
This unusual family structure naturally pre­sented some problems. One day my mom got a phone call from the distraught mother of one of Patrick's second grade classmates. When the classmate had told Patrick that there was a new baby in his family, Patrick asked if he knew how long the baby was going to be staying, so the kid had gone home in tears wanting to know why the baby was leav­ing. My mom, laughing so hard she was cry­ing, had to explain to Patrick that most fami­lies have permanent, keeper babies, and not temporary ones like our family. 
We all had to adjust to having our foster sib­lings come and go quickly, and sometimes with very little warning. One day, for exam­ple, when I was in eighth grade, I went to school in the morning with four brothers and when I got home I had three brothers and two sisters. We also got used to having babies around all the time-it didn't take long for the social workers to realize that my mom wel­comed infants and hard-to-place newborns and once they figured it out they really took advantage of it. 
I actually think that every family with teenagers should also have an infant around. When my brothers and I were growing up, we knew how to feed and diaper and care for any baby, even difficult-to-handle crack babies or hyperactive toddlers. We all know what the rooting reflex is (it's the reflex that makes a newborn turn its head when you touch its cheek) and the word "fontaneJle" is common-place in our house (it's the medical term for 

the soft spot on a baby's head -courtesy of 
my mom, a former pediatric nurse). Wn not 
only know what cradle cap is, wn know how 
to help cure it. We learned what a pain in the 
butt infants are. It's not hard to take care of' 
them, but it is boring and certainly tiring. I don't think anything would motivate more 
teenagers to hold off on having babies than spending two days with a newborn. 
Some 30 childrnn later. Derwin is our cur­rent baby; he is almost 18 months old and has been around since St. Patrick's Day. Amazing little child. He's adorable, of course, and very smart. It's a riot to watch him learn to talk. Hight now Derwin has three words: Mom, Uck, which means "duck" or "truck." depend­ing on the context, and Sha, which means everything else. Sha can mean "recycling truck" (which he loves), "airplane" or "give me a cookie." We're working on increasing his vocabulary bit by bit. He loves to read. Ile will drag his well-worn board books to you and maneuver himself into your lap and demand that you read. Sometimes he reads along: "Sha sha sha uck! Uck! Sha sha... " 
Derwin is a very friendly and outgoing little boy. Last year my mom and Derwin came up to help me move out of the dorm, and Derwin ran around my section, making friends. Following the quiet strains of music from one room way down tho hall, Derwin toddled down and wandered in the open door. Tim occupants found him dancing in their com­mon room. He also attached himself to Derek. one of our Lyons football coaches, who is sort of a macho guy, not easily intimidated. Derwin looked straight up and made it clear that he wanted Derek to pick him up. Derek turned white, but picked him up and uttered some seriously immortal words: "Hey, kid." This baby may have terrified him, but he was at least willing to pretend he was at ease for the sake of his girlfriend, who was standing right there watching. 
I have learned a lot from Derwin and all the other kids who have passed through my fami­ly. Babies are amazingly complicated crea­tures and watching them grow from new­borns into actual little children with personal­ities is incredible. I also realize how lucky I am to know that next year I will be spending Christmas with the same people I spent this Christmas with. Love and stability do wonders for any child. 
And to answer the question that everyone always asks: Of course we get attached to them. But as my mom says, if you don't got attached to them, then you aren't loving them, and then you're missing the point. 
Kate Rowland is a senior from Lyons I/all. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neccessarily those of The Observer. 
M 
c~ne E 
page 16 oss~RVER Wednesday, December 8, 1999 

I 



Holiday Movie Alert 
Scene looks at the final movies ofthe 
millennium in its holiday movie preview 
prison film ("'Tho Shawshank mancc bv Caine. llallstrom has a
Bv MATT NANIA 
Redemption"), and Tom Hanks way with hcart-tuggcrs (see
S~ene Movie Critic 
is, well, Tom Hanks. Though "What's Eating Gilbert Grape?"), death-row movies are not neces­and "Rules" just might make 
The holiday movie season sarily the rage at the holidays, Maguire a star if the movie is always brings out the best and .the combination should add up marketed right by Miramax . brightest of Hollywood filmmak­to success at the box office and (opens Friday) ing. And although this year has Oscar nominations in everyone's already seen somP noteworthy stockings. (opens Friday) 
Cradle Will Rock 

films -"Eyes Wide Shut," 
The Players: Starring Susan
"American Beauty," "Fight 
Deuce Bigalow: Male Gigolo Sarandon, John Cusack, Hill
Club," "Being John Malkovich," The Players: Rob Schneider Murray and Emily Watson;"Dogma," "The Insider". "Toy The Plot: Schneider co-wrote directed by Tim RobbinsStory 2" -many of the season's this tale of an aquarium cleaner The Plot: "Cradle" is ba..'ied on
upcoming films (with a few 
who, while fish-sitting for a suc­the true events surrounding theexceptions) are sure to be on cessful gigolo; answers his busi­controversial 1937 musical 
Jim Carrey stars as late comedian Andy Kaufman in the biopic, "Ma
some year-end best films lists. 
ness phone and decides to take drama about a greedy industrial­
This time of year also witness­cuckoo's Nest," "Amadeus"), the film looks to be a top draw at the boxl 
some of the business. ist taken down by an ordinaryes some high box-office figures, The Buzz: "Deuce" is man.
thanks to the millions of family Anna and the King Maguire, Skeet Ulrich and Jewel; 
Schneider's bid to become a The Buzz: Returning behind
gatherings that end at the near­The Players: Starring Jodie directed by Ang Len 
marquee name and break out of the camera for the first time
est Multiplex. Foster and Chow Yun Fat; direct-The Plot: Along the
his smarmy supporting roles. since 1995 's "Dead Man
But considering the sleuth of ed by Andy Tennant Kansas/Missouri horder early
And although screwball come­Walking," Robbins is set with a
studio releases coming out The Plot: An old-fashioned his-during the Civil War in 1861,
dies such as "Ace Ventura" and holiday opening that may deliver 
between now and the end of the torical romance based on the gangs ofbushwhar,kers engage in
"Billy Madison" have led to his most powerful film yet. Plus,
year, no particular movie looks true story of the 19th century bloody guerrilla warfare. "Devil"
breakout careers, Schneider just the terrific ensemble cast seems
to dominate at the box ofTice. So British governess whose story is tells the story of a 16-year-old
does not have the comedic talent like it will provide the movie with 
here's a guide to help you decide told in "The King and I." boy (Maguire) who becomes part
to sustain an entire film, despite some added weight. (opens
which films will get your hard­The Buzz: Hong Kong action of this bloody chapter of
Adam Sandler's role as executive Friday)
earned Christmas money. star Chow Yun-Fat gets to show American history. 
producer. From the looks of it, Western audiences he can do The Buzz: The success of'Schneider will end up sleeping Bicentennial Man more than just shoot, and Jodie "Saving Private Ryan" has madeThe Green Mile with the fishes. (opens Friday) The Players: Starring Robin Foster gets to stretch with a peri-it clear to Hollywood that audi­
The Players: Starring Tom 
Williams; directed by Chris od film. a British accent and a ences are interested is seeingHanks, Gary Sinise and Michael The Cider House Rules Columbus love story. Director Andy Tennant realistic portrayals of the horrors
Duncan; riirected by Frank 
The Players: Starring Tobey The Plot: An adaptation of proved he could give a pleasing, of war. Not counting "Glory,"Darabont Maguire, Charlize Theron, Isaac Asimov's story about a modern spin to the past with the most Civil War movies of the last
The Plot: Based on the 
Michael Caine and Paul Rudd; robot so intrigued by humans Cinderella update "Ever After," 20 years have not been trer:nen­Stephen King serial novel, Hanks directed by Lasse Hallstrom that it attempts to become one however, "Anna" looks more like dously successful, but an advan­plays a depression era death­The Plot: Based on John over a 200-year span. a big-screen epic of old than did tages of "Ride With the Devil" arerow prison guard assigned to Irving's novel, "Rules" tells the The Buzz: Though it is likely to that feminist fairy tale. Fox tar-its young cast, a very talentedwatch over John Coffey story of a young orphan be considered sappy and senti­gets the whole family with this director ("The Ice Stonr") and its (Duncan}, an enormous black (Maguire) raised by a kindly mental by the chronically nihilis­one, but it will have to do battle unique look at a segment of the man convicted of murdering two abortionist (Caine) in World War tic, this second teaming of direc­with "Bicentennial Man" and Civil War not known by mostyoung white girls. 
II-era New England. tor Columbus and star Williams "The Green Mile." (opens Dec. Americans. (now open in limited
The Buzz: Early audience 
The Buzz·: This old-fashioned, (the first was "Mrs. Doubtfire") 1.7) release)
response to this film has been sprawling saga is expected to seems like it should hit the rightoverwhelming. But that's not so pack emotional heft and feature notes with audiences. (opens
surprising -director Darabont Ride With the Devil End of the Affair
a marvelous supporting perfor-Dec. 17)
has already done a sensitive The Players: Starring Tobey The Players: Ralph Fiennes, 



Photo courtesy ol Twentieth Century Fox Photo courtesy of Paramount Ptetur~ and Mir-amax 
Jodie Foster as Anna in "Anna and the King." 
Matt Damon and Gwyneth Paltrow star in "The Talented Mr. Ripley." Tom Hanks and Michael Duncan {r 
~ 
M 
cene E 
O
THE 
Wednesday, December 8, 1999 BSERVER page 17 
Photo courtesy ol Universal Pictures 
on the Moon." Directed by Milos Forman ("One Flew Over the Ice and at Oscar time. 
.Juliamrn Moore and StPphen llcm: classic E.B. White story of a dirnctPd by NPil Jordan mouse raisml as a human boy. 
Tlw Plot: During World War II, The Buzz: A number of studios a marrind woman (Moow) cheats have shown that family films like on her husband (H1•a) with a "Babe" and "Free Willy" have the handsonw novelist (FiPnnes). But potnntial to make loads of money. wlwn lmr lover is injured during Using cutting edge technology to lh<' London Blitz, she makes a tell this charming tale could [lad with c;od that if he should result in a big box olTice -not to liw. slw'II promisP to end their mention fun -movie. And affair. although last year's "Babe: Pig in 
Tlw l!u:u: This film appears to the City" didn't win the attention b<\ low 011 evPryone's radar of audiences. this little story of a dlispitP tlw fact that it's basml on mouse with a heart just might. a novel hy famous 1-:nglish writer (opens Dec. 24) Graham Cn~rnw, rcgardnd as one of Llw <'.<•ntury's best scribes. 
Any Given Sunday
Sounds classy, hut given Jordan's 
The Players: Starring Al
t\lTatir. work (last year he gave us Pacino, Cameron Diaz, Dennisboth tlrn brilliant "The Butcher Quaid, Jamie Foxx, LL Cool J andBoy" and tho awful "In Dreams"}, James Woods; directed by Oliverit's a toss-up. (now open in limit­Stone
ed reltllL'>e I 
The Plot: A brash young quar­terback (Foxx) is hankering to Stuart Little steal the starting gig away from Th(\ Players: Starring Michael the aging qua'rterback (Quaid). .I. Fox as the voice of Stuart Little, The owner (Diaz) of the fictitious Geena Davis and Jonathan Miami Sharks sides with Beamen, l.ipnkki forcing coach Tony D'Amato The Plot: /\n adaptation of the (Pacino), whose life is already in 
shambles. to make sonrn tough cter.isions. 
The Buzz; Forget ".JFK" -this is the NFL, and Stone tries to cap­ture rwery last little gritty bit of it. As one might nxpect, Stono depir.ts the league as corrupt, rife witl1 racism. drug use and other professional sporting debauch­ery. The most obvious element that sets it apart is Urn sheer overwhelming intensity of the cast's star power. Stone has put together a fantastic ensemble. but that doesn't mean people will take an intr.rcst. After all, folks can watch football on well, any given Sunrlay. (opens D,w. 22) 
Girl, Interrupted 
The Players: Starring Winona Ryder, Angelina Jolie, Whoopi Goldberg and Vanessa Redgrave; dimctHd by James Mangold 
The Plot:· "Girl" is based on Susanna Kaysen 's 1993 memoir about her two-year stay in a mental institution, which started i11 1967, when she was 17. 
The Buzz: Af'tN being named executive producer by the brass at Sony, Ryder spent ynars trying to find the right director. llow she settled on James Mangold, whose police drama, "CopLand," wasn't oxactly female friendly, is a mys­tery. Still, the devoted actress -:­who has said the film is not a fomale "One Flew Over Cuckoo's Nest" -and Mangold secm to have found common ground with the material. 
Plus, tlrn cast includes proven vets like Hedgravc and the promising new blood of Jolie f"The Bone Collector"). Female moviegoers will. more than likely, be the dominant audience for this lilm. (opens Dec. 22) 
Snow Falling on Cedars 
The Players: Starring Ethan Hawke and Youki Kudoh: direct­ed by Scott Ilicks 
The Plot: Hawke plays a jour­nalist covering the trial of a Japanese American man accused of killing a Caucasian fisherman near the fictional Northwest island of San Piedro. Hawke's relationship with the accused's wife is depicted in flashbacks, along with the internment of the island's Japanese American citi­zens during World War II. 
The Buzz: Scott Hicks follows his Oscar-winning "Shine" with an adaptation of David Guterson's best-selling mystery­romance-historical-courtroom drama. "Cedars" is much antici­pated thanks to readers' passion for the book and because of Hicks' role as director. The film has the ingredients for a moving drama, but early reaction from the Toronto Film Festival has been mixed. (opens Dec. 22) 
Man on the Moon 
The Playors: Starring Jim Carmy; directed by Milos Forman 
The Plot: A biographical look at the late comic, Andy Kaufman (Carrny), who is considered one of the most innovative, eccentric and enigmatic performers of all time 
The Buzz: Who's the man in ''Man on the Moon"? Norn~ other than ccccntrir, spastic '90s comic Jim Carrny, who proved his dra­matic chops in last year's "Tho Truman Show." l\nd with the great Milos Forman ("One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest," "Amadeus") dit'ecting, "Moon" has Academy Award potential and ambition. Audience reaction to the film will likely mirror reac­tion to the original Kaufman him­self. including everything from confused silonco to hearty laughs. Plus, ,Jim Carrey never hurts at the box office, and his extraonii­nary µerformance is said to be the best mason to see Urn film. (opens Dec. 22) 
The Talented Mr. Ripley 
The Players: Starring Matt Damon, Gwyneth Paltrow, Jude Law and Cate BlanchHtt; directed by Anthony Mingholla 
The Plot: A young, ambitious American named Ripley (Damon) develops a malicious taste for the privileged lifostylo as well as a dangerous fixation on friend Rickie Greiinlcaf (Law). 
The Buzz: Just about three years later, Minghella follows his award-winning "English Patient" with thre11 past Oscar favorites: Damon, Paltrow and Blanchett. The film is reportedly more oxis­tential drama than suspenseful nail-biter, but with Minghella, one can count on a postcard­pretty film. And although a pic­turesque but low-key psychologi­cal drama isn't exactly holiday fare, any movie witl1 so much tal­ent should not be missed. (opens Dec. 24) 
Galaxy Quest 
The Players: Starring Tim Allen, Sigourney Weaver and Alan Rickman; directed by Dean Parisot 
The Plot: Galaxy Quest is the title of a fictional TV show that airs for just three seasons but becomes a national obsession. It turns out that the series has extra-terrestrial fans who don't realize it's just a show, and they need the cast's help. 
The Buzz: "Quest" sounds like "Three Amigos" set in space. If "Quest" can do for science fiction what "Amigos" did for Westerns, the audience is in for a hilarious time. And although Allen has had his share of misses, the former Home Improvement mainstay struck holiday box office gold with 1994's "The Santa Clauso." (open!!' Dec. 25) 
Magnolia The Playtlrs: Starring William 
II. 
Macy, Philip Seymour Hoffman . .Julianne Moore, John 

C. 
Heilly and Tom Cruise: direct­ed by Paul Thomas Anderson 


The Plot: The film's Web sill' simply states that "this is a story about family relationships and bonds that havo bPnn broken and neod to be mended i11 one day." 
The Buzz: Even armed with only the fogginst idoa of what t.his film is about, anyone who saw "Boogie Nights," Anderson's criti­cally lauded 1997 paean to the '70s porn industry, knows that he is more than capabl11 of' w1mvi11g involved, r.haractnr-driven story lines. Anderson's rnliance ,in a consistnnt core of jounwyman actors makos his st>emingly out­of-lr-,ft-ficld casting of megastar Tom CruisP -who plays, of all things, a sleazy late-night infomercial sex advice guru -all the more intriguing. Surprisingly, out of the entire top-notch cast, Cruise has been the onn to emerge with Oscar buzz. (opens Dec. 25) 
Next Friday 
The Players: Ice Cube; directed 
by Steve Carr (dehut) 
The Plot: This movin is the 
sequel to the popular 1<JCJ!'i urban 
comedy, "Friday." Following the 
events ·or the first film by just two 
weeks, Craig (Ice Cube) moves in 
with his r.ousin and unr.le, whilo 
the town bully is still after him for 
knocking him out in the first film. 
The Buzz: Chris TuckP-r, who 
was the best thing about th1i orig­
inal. will not reprisn his role this 
time around. However, after see­
ing the trailer, expect lots of 
laughs. (opens Dec. 24) 
The Hurricane 
The Players: Starring Denzel 
Washington; directed by Norman 
Jewison 
The Plot: "Hurricane" tells the 
true story of middleweight boxing 
champion Rubin "Hurricane" 
Carter, who was falsely convicted 
of the 1966 murder of three 
white men in a New Jersey tav­
ern. 
The Buzz: Buzz is extremely high on this film and with good reason: Norman Jewison has a strong track recor,J with compa­rable subject matter ("A Soldier's Story," "In the Heat of the Night"), and Washington's smol­dering and solemn performance · looks brilliant. With a strong lead and director, this appears to be a film to keep an eye as the Oscar season approaches. (opens Dec. 
29) 



... 
Photo courtesy of Touchslone Pictures 

Rob Schnieder stars In "Deuce Blgalow: Male Gigolo." 
Wednesday, December 8, 1999 . The DbJerver . SPORTS page 18 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL NFL 

Associated Press 
SEATTLE 


The Seattle Mariners signed free agent first baseman John Olerud to a three-year contract todav. 
Terms of the deal were not disclosed. though the Mariners were believed to have offered a $21 million, three-year deal last month. 
"We are very happy that we were able to bring John back home to the city of Seattle and the Pacific Northwest," said Pat Gillick, Mariners vice pres­ident and general manager of baseball operations. 
Olerud, 30, played in 162 of 163 games for the New York Mets this year and batted .298 with 19 home runs and 96 RBIs. He finished fourth in the NL with 125 walks and fifth with .427 on base percentage. 
The Mets were bidding to keep Olerud, but the lure of returning home was apparent­ly too much to overcome. 
A graduate of Interlake High School in suburban Bellevue and Washington State University, Olerud was the NCAA Player of the Year for 1987-1988 after setting school single-season records in six offensive categories. He was picked by Toronto in the third round of the 1989 June draft. 
Olerud was an AL All-Star in 1993 and won World Series championships with the Bltie Jays in 1992 and 1993. 
Happy Holiday from The Observer Staff! 
Panther's Carruth faces new charge 
Am>ciated Press 

CHARLOTTE. N.C. 
Carolina Panthers wide receiver Rae Carrulh turned himself in to police Tuesday after being indicted on a new charge in the shooting of his pregnant girlfriend, then went free on bond again. 
Carruth already was charged with conspiracy to commit first-degree murder, attempted murder and shooting into an occupied vehicle in the Nov. 16 shoot­ing of Cherica Adams. On Monday, authorities added a count of assault with a deadly weapon with intent to kill. 
Carruth posted $3 million bail Monday, but had to return to court Tuesday for a hearing on the new charge. Superior Court Judge John Gardner set an unsecured bond of $300,000, which meant Carruth only had to sign a piece of paper promising to appear and did not have to provide any more money. 
"He's already on the way home," said his attorney, George Laughrun. 
Three other men also have been indicted on the same four charges as Carruth, and they remain in jail on $1.5 million bond each. 
Carruth had been jailed since his Nov. 25 arrest. 
Adams, who was shot four times, remains in critical condition. 
"Her condition hasn't 
improved appreciably," White said. "She's had good and bad days, but we're hopeful of an eventual recovery." 
The condition of lrnr pre­mature baby, named Chancellor Lee· Adams, has improved. The baby was move.d out of the neonatal intensive care nursery, said Scolt White, spokesrn.an for Carolinas Medical Center. 
Carruth was placed on a leave of absence without pay by tlie Panthers last week, and the NFL has changed his status from active to a classification called "exempt -commissioner's permis­sion." Once a player is put in that classification, he must stay there for the remainder of the season, team and league officials said. 
The terms of his release call for Carruth to remain in Mecklenburg County but stay away from the victim. her family and Carolinas Medical Center, where Adams is being treated. If Adams dies, Carruth's bond would automatically he revoked. 
Prosecutors allege that Carruth, 25, a wide receiver the Panthers selected in the first round of the 1997 draft, was the instigator of the attack on Adams. She was shot from a passing vehicle as she drove through a Charlotte neighborhood. 
The other defendants are Stanley Abraham Jr., 19, Michael Kennedy, 24, and William Watkins, 44, all from Charlotte. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 \ .m. at che Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
LOST  Looking for 1 more roommate to  SPRING BREAK 2000  Looking for a unique gift idea?  And just in case people were feel- 
TURNER  move into beautiful off-campus  How about a personalized color pie­ ing left out...  
NOTICES  IN BLITZ  house in Riverside historic district.  PANAMA CITY BEACH FLORIDA  lure calendar?  
TO CHUK  Male or female (currently 2 male, 1  FROM $149 PER PERSON SAND•  Bring in 12 of your favorite pictures  Givas Las Vegas  
41-40  female living there) who wants a  PIPER BEACON BEACH RESORT  and we' II do the rest!!!  
THE COPY SHOP  clean, safe house and likes good  THE "FUN PLACE"!  THE COPY SHOP  West Virginia Gang Beth  
Lafortune Student Center  music. N-Sync fans need not reply.  TIKI BEACH BAR ENTERTAIN•  Lafortune Student Center  
PHONE 631-COPY \YWW.CopyShopND.com  WANTED  280.00/month plus utilities. Call 288-4517.  MENT BY BOOGIE INCORPORAT­ED BIKINI CONTESTS MALE  www.thecommentator.com  And Missy the coolest Lewis chick in the world  
Store Hours  HARD BODY CONTESTS  
Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight  Free CD of cool indie music when  WALK TO SCHOOL  3 POOLS LAZY RIVER RIDE  www.NDToday.com  Chuk... DB bathroom ....  
Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm  you register at mybytes.com, the  http://mmmrentals.homepage.com  WATER SLIDE  
Sat: Noon-6:00pm  uttimate website for your college  232-2595 or  HUGER BEACHFRONT HOT TUB  TODAY IS THE LAST ISSUE OF  Pete ... watch the QB post  
Sun: Noon-Midnight  needs.  mmm.rentals@aol.com  MINI GOLF GIFT SHOP SUITES  THE OBSERVER.  
UP TO 10 PEOPLE  The first issue next semester is  Are you a lonely ND boy looking for  
TODAY IS THE LAST ISSUE OF  EXCELLENT compensation for  3 bdrm. duplex, one mile from cam­ 1-800-488-8828  Wednesday, Jan. 19.  someone to cuddle with this holiday  
THE OBSERVER. WE'LL BE BACK  marketing college products at BEST  pus. Appliances, W/0.  WWW.SANDPIPERBEACON.COM  Good luck with finals and have a  season? Hurry now and call Kelle  
ON MONDAY.  prices.Go NOW to:  503 Eddy St.  safe break. See you in 2000!  or Kristin at 4-2353 for your chance  
..  JAN. 17 AND THE FIRST ISSUE Will BE ON WEDNESDAY. JAN. 19. HAPPY HOLIDAYS AND GOOD  http://www.akademos.com/campus­rep....................•........  273-8332 6 BEDRM. '00·'01 $1200/mo. 273-0482  SPRING BREAK 2000 Cancun, Mazatlan, Acapulco, Jamaica and S.Padre. Reliable TWA flights. Biggest Parties & Best  MERRY CHRISTMAS TO ALL AND TO ALL A GOODNIGHT!! Got Money?  to learn the fine art of cuddling. Lui you!  
LUCK WITH FINALS.  Sony Playstation to give as a  Packages. Book by Dec.1 & SAVE  http://expage.com/page/ajnmoney  
Christmas gift. Looking for a good  room for rent  up to $200' 1-800-Surfs-Up  you can't actually stop Burris, you  
FREE Money  deal.  call for info  www.studentexpress.com  Chuk 41, Turn er 40  can only hope he doesn't hurt you  
http://expage.com/page/ajnrnoney  Call Chas  256-6929  too much  
LOST & FOUND  4-2666 ...............,.................... EARN $$$s FOR EVERY HOUR  4-6 bedroom houses include laun­dry, appliances .5 minutes from campus..very nice .. Dave 291·  1988 Honda CRX 104K, 4 Speed, Runs Well, $750 288-3408 92 Ford Tempo. 4-dr., auto, loaded,  Since Brooke and Julia are going away to Italy next semester. Today's classifieds will have to count extra to tide them over until  Christine, Erica and Finn, Hey dudes, thanks for everything this semester. I owe you all big  
YOU SPEND SURFING THE  2209  120k mi., runs wall, $1350/best.  the tall.  time.  I think I'd be dead if it weren't  
LOST: Silver Charm Bracelet  INTERNET.FOR DETAILS SEND  232-5609.  for you. Hope y'all have fun partying  
lost in middle of October  E-MAIL TO  Brooke... good luck Sunday Night  in world capitals, we'll be partying  
High sentimental value. x3727-Megs  WORLDWEB1 @GO.COM  FOR SALE  Sleeper sofa,$150. Sofa,$50  Break a leg  for you here In SDH, but News won't be the same without you  
STUDENT NEEDED M-F, SPRING  Stuffed chair,$25  Julia... Orange Juice is good  around. Take care.  
LOST:  SEMESTER, TO PICKUP/DROP  Spring Break Specials1Bahamas  Will deliver. 282-2228.  You guys rock.  
DARK BLUE COLUMBIA WINTER  OFF TWO STUDENTS AFTER  Pacty Cruise 5 Days $279! I  Brooke.. I am not gross. I just say  Tim  
COAT WITH BLACK ACROSS  SCHOOL. $20-40.M'K.  ncludes Meals!  whats on my mind  
THE SHOULDERS &BLACK FLEECE ZIP-OUT LINING. LOST  CALL AVA 1-8637 OR preach­er.1@nd.edu  Awesome Beaches,NightlifetCancun &  PERSONAL  Julia... It was your dream  To the entire staff of The Observer, You are amazing. You are talented  
AT SENIOR BAR ON NOV. 20  Jamaica 7 Nights From $3991  and dedicated. You do far more  
AFTER  FAX IT FAST!!!  Brooke... do your paper  than what's expected and work for  
ND-BC GAME. $$REWARD$$, CALL PAT AT  FOR RENT  Florida $129!springbreaktravel.com  Sending & Receiving at  Julia... are you going to run around  way less than what you deserve. Thank you for accepting the  
1-312-245-4294.  THE COPY SHOP  in Rome?  responsibility of a 33-year tradition  
LOST-Pair of glasses in red lens crafters  ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE HOME FOR ND-SMC EVENTS.  1-800-678-6386 Phone Cards 669min. $20  Lafortune Student Center Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1 FAX IT FAST!!!  Brooke... don't go to the Olive Garden in Rome  and for raising the bar yet again. And thank you for making this base­men! the funniest, craziest, luckiest  
case. Plz call Chris@634·1091 if round.  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 243•0658.  243-9361 or 258-4805  Julia... love those V-shapes  place on campus. Michelle  

Wednesday, December 8, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page l 9 
.. 
NFL 
No break for Vermeil, playoff-bound St. Louis 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS 

TIH\ tnar ducts w11rc dry for Dick Vnrnwil the day artor the St. Louis Hams hncanrn the first lnam to clinrh an NFI. playnff bnrth. · 
The coaching staff was tc,o 
busy on Monday evaluating game film and beginning prr.parations !'or the next game ut New Orleans to remain giddy about the team's first NFC West title since 1985. 
'TvH said live times, wouldn't it he great to have a three-day break to just relax and enjoy what you've boon able to accomplish?" Vermcil said. "But that's not the NFL. You don't get any time to rejoice and you don't get any time to recover when you lose one that you thought you shouldn't have lost." 
Of course, it's a lot easier returning Lo the rouline when the rewards are theni. The 

Stylish, 
yetprovocative
•
music. 

MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Pirates ink four minor leaguers 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH 

Outfielder Adam Hyzdu, who had 24 homers and 78 RBIs in 96 games last season for Double-A Altoona, was one of four minor league free agents signed Tuesday by the Pittsburgh Pirates. 
Hyzdu began the season with Boston's Triple-A Pawtucket farm club, batting .229 with one homer and six RBIs in 12 games. After signing a minor­1eague contract with Pittsburgh, Hyzdu, 28, spent most of the season at Altoona before finishing at Triple-A Nashville, hitting .250 with five homers and 13 HHls in 14 games. 
l lyzdu was the San Francisco Giants' lirst-round draft pick in 1990. 
The Pirates also signed infielder Jason Wood, right­hander Jose Lopez, outfielder Daren llooper and sold the contract of right-handed reliev­er Greg Hansell to the IIanshin Tigers of the Japanese League. 
Wood hit .159 with one homer and eight HBis in 27 games with Detroit before spending most of the season in the minors. He also played for Oakland in 1998. 
llansell was 1-:~ with a 3.89 EHA in 33 games with Pittsburgh. 
J NOW AVAILABLE! 
~RINGOVTVOVRJOY! 
-CD and cassette recordings by 
h1 

The University of Notre Dame Handbell Choir And Instrumentalists 
Th.is_reoording features 14 Notre Dame undergraduates 
playing four octaves of handbells with instrumental 
additio~ o_f violins, ce~,.flute, ~'oboe, and percussion. 
The music includes vanalions on favorite hymn tunes new 
arrangements of favorite classical melodies, Irish melodies, peals, and more! Makes the perfect Christmas gift! 
Available at the Hammes Bookstore and the Informatio:1 
Desk at La.Fortune Student Center. 
NOWAVAILABLE! 
C 

Visit our Jam Central Department. 
Gui!ors, omp~, drumsets, sheet music ond more 

MEDIN7PLAY" 
Your Entertainment Superstore 
Rams (10-2} have more victo­ries this season than in the first two years of Vermeil's coaching comeback combined. 
"It's back to work, but it's back to work with a little more of a smile, a little more pep to our step," tight end Holand Williams said. "Obviously, we achieved one of our goals and that foels great, but our team is so strong and we have so much going for us to just sc~ttle for going to the playoffs." 
Vermeil, perhaps the NFL's most emotional coach, burst into tears at least four times after Sunday's 34-21 victory at Carolina. Then he broke out the champagne on the flight home, capped by a welcome­home celebration with about 500 fans at the airport. 
"We want to take Georgia to Georgia," Vermeil said, refer­ring to Hams owner Georgia Frontiere and the Super Bowl site in Atlanta, Ga. 
Then he regained control. 
The next objective for the !lams is stH.:uring home-field advantage throughout the play­offs. They've got a two-game lead on the NFC field with four games to play aft.er Sunday's 34-21 victory at Carolina. 
"That's very important," cor­nerback Dexter McCleon said. "You don't want to go to Detroit or Minnesota or Green Ray or somewhere likt~ that having to win." 
The Rams could c.linch a first-round bye, which would be their first break sincn Wock 2 ol' thA season, as soon as this week. They need only a victory 
at New Orleans (2-10) and  a  
Washington loss to Ari:,.ona.  
St.  Louis has  never  had  a  

home playoff game. In 28 sea­sons bnfor1i moving to )>hoenix in 1988, the Cardinals played in only thrcfl playoff games ­all losses and all on tho road. So thern's still plnnty ol' tar­gets. 
The Rams, 200-1 longshots to make the Super Bowl in the preseason, have come a vnry long way in a short time. Tlwy were 22-42 their lirst four sea­sons after moving to St. Louis from Anaheim, Calif'., and entered the season as the losingest team of the decade. 
For the store nearest you, call toll-free 1-888-60-MEDIA. Now online at www.MediaPlay.com Cas•:::8!.tc:"~~~ 
Sale end, Decemb&r 18, 19'19. Product selection and pricing may '/Ory 011lino. 885792 
page 20 Wednesday, December 8, 1999
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 



Wednesday, December 8, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 


Castl~'Poiot 
Apartments 
Cleveland and Ironwood Roads/18011 Cleveland Road/ South Bend, Indiana 46637/ (219)272-8110 
New Castle Point Select Units Available for 
i'  1't­ Next Semester  
J"'\1/  ~ :  
*Within minutes of campus*  

• 
Renovated, spacious one and two bedroom apartments, some with lofts 

• 
Includes membership in the new Castle Point Racquet Club and Fitness Center 


NCAA FOOTBALL 
Finalists await 
Lombardi Award 
A.,sociated Press 
IIOUSTON 

Dnf'ensive end Corny Moore of 
Virginia Tnch and nose guard 
Corny Simon of Florida State 
1u·c computing to be No. I in 
nwni ways than one. 
On Wednesday night, t.hcy'll join linnbackcr LaVar Arrington aud defensive end Co11rtrwy Brown of Penn State as !'inalisls f'or the 30th 
Lombardi /\ward as the 
nation's top colll'giatc lineman. 
On Jan. 4, Moore and Simon 
lllPPI in Orn Sugar Bowl to bat­
tle for tlrn nationalclrnmpi­
onship. 
"W1i'vo talkPd about it some 
lwL i!.'s not Corny vs. Corey. It's 
Florida State vs. Virginia 
Tnch," Moorn said. "We don't 
havo to block (Hi.ch other or 
anything. I jt1st think thorn's a 
lot of' rnspnct both ways."' 
Mooni won tho Mike Fox­
Bronco Nagurski Trophy on 
~londay night as the nation's 
top dnfonsive player. Ilo sel a 
Big Hasl rncord with 17 sacks 
lhis s1•aso11 and Ind a defense 
that ranke1d in the top 10 
nationally in 1wery category. 
";\ lot of' schools rncruited me 
out of' high sdwol, but a lot of 
them said I was too small to 
compnlP in Division!-/\," Moore 
saifl. ''I've been blessed to have 
th1• opportunity Lo have an 
~ippor.~unity to play !'or Virginia 
Ieel1. 
Simon anchored Florida 
State's defense. He set a Seminoles record with 19 tack­les for losses, includiug four sacks. Ile dellcctcrl three pass­es and had an interception. Simon thinks lhe Hokies and Seminoles are ready to put on a good show. 
"We know that we're going to be playing against each other, but il's not an individual thing," Simon said. "I think both sides have a lot of confidence.'' 
With Arrington and Brown, Penn State became the first school in 20 years to have two Lombardi Award finalists the same year. The Nittany Lions also accomplished the feat in 1978 with Matt \1illen and win­ner Bruce Clark. Brown led the Big 10 with 11 1/2 sacks and 21 tackles for losses. lie is Penn State's career loader with 31 sacks. Arrington was second to Brown this season with 15 tackles for losses and seven sacks. 
"I'm very proud to be a final­ist, win or lose," Arrington said. "To be in the group with­these guys is a reward." 
It's been a disappointing sP.a­son for the Nittanv Lions and Texas A&M. Penn State's foe in the Alamo Bowl on Dec. 28. Both teams started the season expecting to compete for the national championship. "I see it as trying to salvage our season, it's been a rough three weeks," Arrington said. 
"We 're really going to try to win this game.'' 
Catch the Irish in action during the holiday break. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students can attend the holiday break basketball games free of charge. Show your ID at the ticket windows and receive free admission. 

Dec. 22, 1999 Dec. 28, 1999 Dec. 31, 1999 Jan.2,2000 
IDAY 

.Form ormat:ton, stop by or call the ticket office at 631-73 
!_,VJ~¥41,t~i~ 
IIG I 
vs. VMI 
vs. Rider 
vs. Elon 
vs. St. Peter's 

vs. Loyola Marymount 
7:30pm 7:30pm 12:00pm 4:00pm 


page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, December 8, 1999 

NCAA BASKETBALL 
Michigan State rolls over Kansas 
Associau,d Press 
·cmCAGO 

Miss Mateen? You bet Michigan State does. Not that the fourth-ranked Spartans cttn't win without their star point guard Mateen Cleaves. 
They did it for the seventh time Tuesday night. beating fifth-ranked Kansas 66-54 in the Great Eight behind the play of Charlie Bell and Morris Peterson. 
One sign at the United Center put it this way: "The Spartans are so hot. they can go Cleaveless." 
But with Cleaves limping on a broken foot and wearing a big sweater on the Michigan State bench. the Spartans struggled handling the ball against second-half pressure as Kansas used a J9-2 run to cut a 23-point deficit to six. 
Then the rally fell short as State (7-1) regrouped behind Peterson. Kansas· first loss this season after six straight wins also marked the first time this season the Jayhawks had played a ranked oppo­nent. 
Bell. doing most of the ball handling in Cleaves' absence, scored 21 points. Peterson shot poorly (3-of-14) but fin­ished with 10 points and 1 O rebounds. And A.J. Granger had 13 for State. 
Kenny Gregory scored 14 points and Luke Axtell 12 for Kansas (6-1). 
State won the Big Ten tour­nament on the same floor nine months ago and the Spartans played like they were right at home during the entire first half and the first six minutes of the second. 
The Spartans were rolling 51-28 and on the way to an easy victory when the Jayhawks finally got loose. They ran off 13 straight p"oints, a run featuring Drew Gooden's slam and Nick Bradford's steal and layup. 
State went six minutes with no points before Jason Richardson hit a jumper to end the drought and give the Spartans a 53-41 lead with 
8:18 to go. 
But Kansas wasn't through. Gregory went high for back­to-back dunks after steals as the Jayhawks turned up the defensive ·pressure and ran off six more points. cutting the lead to 53-47 with just under seven minutes to go. 
Then Peterson showed his leadership. He dropped in two free throws, fed Bell for a lay­in on the break and then made a one-on-one move from the key and drove for a basket to put the Spartans back up by 12. 
Bell was too quick for the Jayhawks to contain in the first half. 
His 13 points on 6-for-8 shooting, Michigan State's sticky defense that limited Kansas to just eight points in the first 10 minutes and three 3-pointers by Granger helped the Spartans to a 39-23 half­time lead. 
Kansas was making its fifth straight Great Eight appear­ance and for the second straight season. the Jayhawks struggled at the United Center. Last year they were routed 63-45 by Kentucky. 
No. 6 Connecticut 78, No. 2 Arizona 69 
Khalid El-Amin and Albert Mouring, the elder of the game's starting backcourts, led No. 6 Connecticut to a vic­tory over No. 2 Arizona in the Great Eight. 
The juniors. two years older than Arizona's starting tan­dem of freshman guards, didn't have very impressive shooting games but came up big enough to lead the defend­ing national champions to their sixth straight win since a season-opening loss to Iowa. 
El-Amin finished with 23 points on 9-of-24 shooting, but was 4-for-8 from 3-point range -mostly against Arizona's 2-3 zone -and helped keep the Huskies in front for the game's final 30 minutes. 
Mouring, who has struggled this season as he tries to replace Big East player of the year Richard Hamilton as the shooting guard, finished with nine points, but five came at the start of an 11-0 run that gave the Huskies a 73-61 lead with 1:11 to play. 
Gilbert Arenas. one of the Wildcats' freshman guards, had 18 points, while Loren Woods added 16 and Michael Wright had 14. Wright had 10 rebounds and Woods had nine. 
Jason Gardner, Arizona's other starting guard, finished with nine points on 2-of-9 shooting. 
The loss was the first of the season for Arizona (6-1). which is in the middle of a three-game stretch against Top Ten teams as it beat then­No. 9 Texas last Saturday and plays host to No. 4 Michigan State on Saturday. 
Connecticut led 3.7-30 at 

halftime and Arizona made 
several runs, getting as close 
as 56-54 on a dunk by Richard 
Jefferson with 8:00 left. 
Tony Robertson added 15 

points for the Huskies, while 
Kevin Freeman had 10. · 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Burns leaves Arkansas for Tulsa 
Associated Press 

_ TULSA, Okla. 
Arkansas defensive coordi­nator Keith Burns is the next head football coach at the University of Tulsa. 
"They have offered me the job, and I'm going to take it," Burns told the Morning News of Northwest Arkansas today. 
· A university source, speak­ing on condition of anonymi­ty, confirmed the hiring to The Associated Press. 
The Tulsa World, the Arkansas Democrat-Gazette at Little Rock and Morning News reported that Burns will begin his new duties at Tulsa immediately. The uni­versity called an afternoon news conference to announce Burns as its choice. 
Arkansas Coach Houston Nutt says Louis Campbell, the director of football opera­tions, will join the Razorbacks' coaching staff in place of Burns at the Cotton Bowl on Jan. 1. 
Burns said he will miss his association with Nutt. "I hate leaving Houston 
because he's not only a great coach, but one of my best friends," Burns told the Springdale paper. "He has been great to me and my family. And my biggest regret is not having time to tell the players. As soon as I get back, I want to meet with them." 
Tulsa fired longtime head coach Dave Rader on Oct. 25 in the midst of his eighth con­secutive losing season. Tulsa finished 2-9, with defensive coordinator Pat Henderson serving as interim coach. 
JUniorsl 
Ifyou have not yet received an application to 
Junior Pare.Dts' Weeke1.1dl 
in the mail at your home address by now, you need to pick up an application ASAP! 
Applications are available in the Mezzanine level ofLafortune, 
at the ]PW office. **The sooner your application is received, the better your seating, so get yours in soon. 
www.nd.edu/~jpw 

''I can't believe 
it's finals 
already.'' 
versity.com 
lecture notes online study groups kno1Nledge center fail-me-not reminder service 
Wednesday, December 8, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
NBA 
League will not probe allegations 
Associ.ired Press NEW YOHK Tim revelation that allegr.d mobstnrs gave NBA players f'rt•n alcohol and strippPrs won't prompt tlrn lnaguc to open an 
inv!'stiga­1.inn into llw rnatwr. 
T h c• league said Ttwsday it. had not sl.arlt~d any !'ormal 


invt•stign-Rodman tion into tlH• NBi\ playors linknd to tlw casP of Lhe Atlanta strip rlulJ tho Gold <:!111,, whosP nwncr hns bN~n indiclt~d Oil rur.ki,1.tit~ring and prostitulion d1arg"s. 
Tlw Nt•w Yo,·k Daily NPws r,•ponnd thut l'atrick f>.,ving, LhurlPs Oak li~v ii nd llnn nis Hod man WP l't' "-· t·o Ill pn cl" for thousands of' dollars worth of t•n!nrt1tin1111•11l lllHl dd11ks al the 
duh. 
Thc• 11nwsµapnr q11otnd unidentified federal sources and investigative records as saying that during live nights in April 19()8, "Patrick Ewing and friends'' ran up a hill of $2,233, including a $991 tab in a single night at the dub. 
Oakley, who left the New Y()fk Knie ks in Juno 1998 and now plays f'or Toronto, was "comped" for $1,313 and $66.5 on two nights in Juno 1997, whiln Hodman paid $411, $516, $78(i, $895, $926, and $946 in so-called "funny money" called Gold Bucks during visits from 1995-98, the newspaper said. 
No athletes wpn• named in the indictment and none faces allegations or wrongdoing. NBA spokesman Brian McIntyre said the !{~ague was continuing to monitor developments. 
"WP have not started any investigation," McIntyre said. 
NBA players am occasionally advisnd by the league's security ollicP to stay away from certain (\Stablishm11nis when~ criminal activity is suspected, and the standard player contract for­bids l,Jchavior that is "material­ly prejudicial or detrimental" to the league. 
Rodman•s· agent, Steve Chasman, said the league office had not contacted him or his client regarding the strip club indictment. Calls to agents for Ewing and Oakley were not returned. 
Steven Kaplan. owner of the Gold Club, aud 14 other defen­dants were indicted Nov. 4 on charges including prostitution, racketeering, money-launder­ing, loan-sharking and credit­card fraud. They have pleaded innocent. 
Th~ government contends the Gold Club was a virtual brothel that corrupted police. provided dancers as prostitutes for regu­lar clients and skimmed mil­lions from the cash flow to buy prolflction from the New York­based Gamb.ino organized crime family. 
The indictment s~ys that in /\pril lJr May 1997, Kaplan and UH' other defendants. transport.­e d female dancers from the Gold Club to I.he Francis Marion Hotel in Charleston, S.C. 

NHL 
Lemieux, Devils burn Penguins 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J, 

Claude Lmni_imx set up goals by John Madden and Handy McKay to lead the New Jersey Devils to a 2-1 victory over Pittsburgh on Tuesday night, sending the Penguins to thflir third straight loss. 
Martin Brodeur made 24 saves in winning an entertain­ing goaltending battle with Jean-Sebastien Aubin, who made 39 stops in filling in for the suspended Tom Barrasso. 
Brodeur lost his shutout on a power-play goal by .Jan !Irdina, his first of the season. But he preserved the win in the closing seconds, stopping a German Titov shot from tho left circle. 
Madden, who was kept out of the lineup the last four games, gave the Devils the lnad at 2:55 of the second period, jusl sec­onds after being stopped on a breakaway. 
Scott Stevens kept the puck in the Penguins zone and fed Lemieux for a shot in the cir­cle. Aubin made the save, but Madden got the rebound and backhanded it into the net. 
One of the reasons Madden was able to do that was Pittsburgh defenseman Hans Jonsson had left the ice to get a new stick. 
Brodeur was at his best late in the second period maintain­ing the lead. He first made a sliding pad save on Martin Straka right in front and then stopped Jaromir Jagr on a semi breakaway. 
Capitals 4, Islanders 2 
James Black's go-ahead goal early in the third period led Washington a victory over tho Islanders, and kept the Capitals unbeaten against New York in 13 games. 
Tho winning goal came on a play started by Capitals defenseman Ken Klee, who lift­ed the puck through the neu­tral zone to Jeff Halpern just ahead of the blue line. Halpern knocked the puck down with a glove, but was taken out of the play by two Islanders defend­ers. 
Black, the trailer, got to the loose puck between the circles and beat Roberto Luongo at 
2:15. Two or Black's four goals this season have come against the Islanders. 
The Islanders failed to con­vert a power-play chance after falling behind and pulled Luongo with 34 seconds left in the game. Richard Zcdnik scored an empty-net goal with 15 seconds remaining. 
Sergei Gonchar and SUwe Konowalchuk also scored for the Capitals, who are 12-0-1 in their last 13 against the Islanders. Adam Oates had three assists. 
Washington is 6-1-3 in its 

· last 10 home games and has not lost consecutive games since dropping the final two games of a West Coast trip late last month. Mariusz Czerkawski and Jamie Heward scored for New York, which has dropped three straight and five of six. The Islanders fell to 1-7 against Southeast Division tlmms. 
Gonchar, who failed to score in his first 26 games this sea­son after a career-best 21 goals a year ago, put the Capitals ahead midway through the first period. Prom the right point, Gonchar one· timed Oates' cross-ice foed at 10:44. 
The Islanders tied it 1-1 on Czerkawski's 10th goal 6:05 into the second peri.od. Mats Lindgren dug the puck out of the left corner and passed to Czerkawski, who beat Olaf Kolzig to the glow1 side with a rising wrist shot. 
Konowa.lchuk and Heward thnn swappnd goals 20 seconds apart to make it 2-2. 
Canadlens 3, Flames 3 

Martin Hucinsky scornd twice in the second period as the Montroal Canadi,ms skated Lo tt tin with the Calgary Flanws. 
Tho tic snapped a throo­gamo losing streak for the injury-riddled Canadiens. while the Flames concludnd a six-game road trip on which they went 2-2-1-l. 
Oerek Morris and Cory Stillman scorncl on Calgary's lirst two shots on Jnfl' I lackett and Valeri Bure madn it 3-1 after Montreal's Dainius Zubrus scored early in the sec­ond period. 
Rucinsky's 11th and 12th goals of the season sent the teams into the third pnriod tied at 3-3. 

Montreal got three of' its 10 injured regulars hack. Dcfenscman Patrice Brisebois and loft-winger Benoit Brunet, both returning l'rom back injuries, saw tlrnir first action of the season while center Sergei Zholtok returned wear­ing a face mask to protect a bruisnd cheek. 
Brisebois had a pair of assists while Zholtok helped set up Zubrus's goal. 
Grant Fuhr rnplaced Frnd Brathwaite in t.lw Calgary goal for his first start in 11 games. 
The Flames outshot Montreal 32-20 before un a1111oun(:ed crowd of 19,106. 
Hurricanes 4, Blues 2 

Jeff O'Neill scored twico and added an assist, and Arlurs Irbe made 28 saves as the Carolina Hurricanes (mdod the St. Louis Blues' sev(rn-ganrn home unbeaten streak with a win. 
Sin.cc losing its first two home games, St. Louis com­piled a 10-1-2 record at Kiel Center, with the only loss com­ing against dofonding Stanley Cup champion Dallas on Nov. 9. 
The Blues lost for only the third time in 13 games (8-3-2). 

Hon Francis had tw,i assists for Carnlina, giving him 1,05() for his carcor. IIr is now onn assist away from tying Mark Messier for fourth place on tlw NJ IL career list. 
O'Neill broke u 2-2 tie whnn he scored l'rom right in f'ronl. with 48 seconds remaining in the second period. Snan Hill started the play with a shot from the right point that Turek stopped. Francis' rebound attempt was also turned away, but the puck came to I !ill who tappnd it in. 
Bill had a goal and two assists for Carolina. Fellow defenseman Paul Coffey scored the other Carolina goal. Carolina, which only had 15 goals from defonsemnn last season, has I :1 goals in 28 games this season from tho defense corps. 

page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, December 8, 1999 
Ex-Illini Wallace dies 
Assodated Press 
URBANA, Ill. 

Stan Wallace, ,vho helped Illinois to victory in the 1952 Rose Bowl and went on to play for the Chicago Bears, has died f'olluwing heart surgery. 
Wallace. h8, died Mondav at an Urbana hospital. · 
A native of Hillsboro, Wallace rPturned a pass inter­ception 56 yards to set up Illinois· go-ahead touchdown in a 40-7 victory over Stanford in the Rose Bowl. 
He played defonsive back for the BeArs from 1954-58, then spent three seasons with the Toronto Argonauts of the Canadian Football League. 
Wallace entered private business in Champaign­Urbana after his football career. 
He is survived hv a widow and two children". Funeral arrangements are pending. 
Please Recycle The Observer. 

Have a safe and happy holiday. Good luck with exams. 


@ 
n d 

Student Y2K Year End Checklist 
Students! Before you leave for Christmas break, please complete these steps to protect your work and personal items from the Millennium Bug: 
• 
Beware of the many Y2K viruses surfacing! Verify that your virus protection software is in place and updated 

• 
Back up your critical computer files (Zip drives available at the Solutions Center) 


• Unplug all electrical items, including: -Computers and printers -Desk lamps -Televisions, VCRs, stereos, clock/radios -Refrigerator (defrost first) 
• 
Turn off all lights 

• 
Close and lock windows to prevent pipes from freezing 

• 
Leave the heat on and set it to "Low" or 65° 

• 
Most importantly, travel safely and have a blessed holiday season! 


For more information about Notre Dame's Y2K project, see www.nd.edu/ ~y2k. For post-Y2K updates, check the Web site or call our hotline at (219) 631-3000. 
Wednesday, December 8, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
NFL 
King rules over Tampa Bay offense in first pro start 

arrived at training camp, Monday night when he threw impressing teammates with his two touchdown passes in maturity, confidence and per­Tampa Bay's 24-17 victory over 
TAMPA formance. King got a struggling the Minnesota Vikings. 
No 0110 on the Tampa Bay offense into the end zone in "He controlled the game, Huccaneers s<rnnrnd surprised each ol' his four preseason which is what you have to do by llw poiso Shaun King show,•d appearances. when you're playing that posi­in his Ii rst NFL start. I le did it. in his wgular-season tion," coach Tony Dungy said 
The 22-yci1r-old rookie has debut after Trent Dilfer broke Tuesday. "And Lhat's nol easy to h1\Pll a ln11der sincf1 th<1 day he his collarbone. and again do as a rookie. He made a few 
••SOPHOMORE ENGINEERS•• 
ARE YOU INTERESTED IN AN EXTRA YEAR AT NOTRE DAME TO STUDY THE HUMANITIES? INVESTIGATE THE JOJNT ARTS AND LETTERS/ENGrNEERING COLLEGE REILLY SCHOLARS PROGRAM. THIS OFFERS FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE TO ENGINEERING STU~ 
DENTS TO ALLOW THEM TO PURSUE A FIFTH YEAR OF WORK 
LEADING TO A DEGREE IN ARTS AND LETTERS IN ADDITION TO THE ENGINEERING DEGREE. THOSE INTERESTED SHOULD REQUEST 
AN APPOINTMENT BY CONTACTING MRS. MILEWSKI AT 1-5015, 346 O'SHAUGHNESSY HALL. MORE INFORMATION MAY BE OBTAINED FROM THE SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY AND VALUES PRO­GRAM WEBSJTE AT WWW.ND.EDU/~STV. 
mistakes.... I'm sure he will do better next week. But he played well and gave his team conf idence, and that's a big thing." 
Although the former Tulane star only threw for 93 yards. the Bucs didn't streamline the game plan to try to minimize his mis­takes. 
The Bucs have posted !'our of the five lowest passing days in the NFt this season, yet are 4-0 in tlrn those games. 
So, when Dungy stressed last week that King didn't have to have a big night statistically to give the Bucs a chance against the high-scoring Vikings, he wasn't blowing smoke. 
"We have the kind of defense that it's not going to take a whole lot week in and week out to win ball games," King said. "So if we go out and execute, and I don't make a crucial mis­take. I think I can take us real far." 
Dilfor will be sidelined for at least the remainder of the regu­lar season, however that doesn't necessarily m can Urn starting job is King's to keep as the Bucs go down the strntr.h. 
Monday night's victory was the fifth straight for Tampa Bay (8-4), tying a franchise record. and the Bucs are tied for the lead in the NFC Central with the Detroit Loins. 
The teams meet Sunday at 
Haymond James Stadium. King, who completed 11 of 19 passes and was intercepted once, ensured another start byplaying well against the Vikings. 
But Dungy doesn't want to push him along too quickly, and said he has not ruled the possi­bility that career backup Eric Zeier could take over the No. 1 job when his sore ribs aro healthy. 
"I think as Eric gets back clos­er to 100 percent, we'll have to evaluate things. You know, because Shaun is still a rookie. And we'll have to look and s1~e what gives us the best chance to win," the coach said. "But right now, Shaun's the guy who's practiced !'or lhe last month and a half, and I think that's the way to go." 
King received calls Tuesday from friends and other players around the J,,aguc, congratulat­ing him on the victory. 
Among the well-wishers were follow rookie quarterbacks Donovan McNabb and Daunte Culpepper, who was on the Vikings sideline. 
"That's what you cxpncl. Tho NFL is kind of like a family, and you root for other players. Evnn when you'rn playing against them. you root for them. You just hope they don't make enough plays to beat you." 
King threw a 29-yard TD pass to Jacquez (;reen, lofting a per­fect spiral to back of the end zone whnre Urn recnivnr madn the catch with a dnfo 11 cl 11 r draped 011 his back. 
Tim rookie's cool lrnhavior was !!Specially ovidnnt on a game-clinching, 1-yard scoring pass to Dave Moore. 
lie faked a handoff to Mike Alstott after the Vikings stopped the Bucs fullback short of the goal line on the two prnvious plays. 

Fiesta de Nuestra Senora de Guadalupe 
Mass on the Feast of Our Lady of Guadalupe 
Friday, December IO, 1999 5:05pm Liturgy Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Rev. Virgilio Elizondo, Presider and Homilist Sacred Music of the Coro Primavera de Nuestra Senora and the Notre Dame Folk Choir 
All are welcome to attend! 


.. 
11 A reenactment of Mary and Joseph's search for shelter for the birth of Christ the child." 
Come celebrate Mexican culture and tradition while traveling to various dorms. 
Wednesday, December 8, 1999 at 7:30 p.m. 
The celebration will commence at Hesburgh Library followed by a procession and reenactment through North Quad. 
c:!W®'u"J' ~0[3@[;11;1013® [ii&IIl 11 IJ11 
@&WIJ.\G:l&M@OO ©'il'• @1@9~ ~IX!~ (P£©@l!D[jrmJ[!,,11/}.\ ~~'il' ffi(U[j@GaQ(;)IXl01111.0rP~ 
C'! 13131,;!J £I,;!]~~ 'il'&~@®m@ 
WHERE TRADITIONAL MEXICAN T~TS WILL BE SERVED 
, 
Sponsored by Campus Ministry and OMSA 

0MPU5 
MINISTRY 
page 26 
The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, December 8, 1999 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
73 players declared free agents 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK 

John Olerud left the New York Mets for Seattle as the first key free-agent d~adline of the offseason approached Tuesday night, and teams cut off negotiations with 7 3 of their former players. 
The World Series champion New York Yankees said good­bye to catcher Joe Girardi and infielder Luis Sojo, Anaheim let go of left-hander Chuck Finley and Cincinnati said so long to outfielder Greg Vaughn and pitchers Steve Avery and Mark Wohlers. 
Meanwhile. 22 players wern offered arbitration, a group that included outfielder Wil Cordero and left-hander Chris Haney (Cleveland) and three players who left the NL cham­pion Atlanta Braves to become free agents: shortstop Jose Hernandez, right-hander Rudy Seanez and outfielder Gerald Williams. 
Players offered arbitration may accept the offers through Dec. 19 and negotiate with their former teams through Jan. 8. 
Players not offered arbitra­tion can't re-sign with their former teams until Mav 1. Also, teams can sign these players without losing ama­teur draft picks as compensa­tion. 
Among those were right­handers Andy Benes, John Burkett, Orel Hershiser and Bobby Witt; catcher Benito Santiago; infielders Jeff Blauser. Tony Fernandez, Mickey Morandini and Ed Sprague; outfielder Paul Sorrento; and designated hit­ter Harold Baines. 
Right-hander Jeff Brantley, facing the midnight deadline, re-signed with Philadelphia, agreeing to a $250,000, one­year contract that gives him the chance to earn an addi­tional $2.5 million in roster and performance bonuses. 
Shortstop Rey Sanchez agreed to a $4.6 million, two­
... year contract with Kansas City, and Texas signed two players just before the dead­line. left-hander Mike Munoz ($850,000) and second base­man Luis Alicea ($750,000). 
Atlanta agreed to a minor league deal with outfielde_r Brian Hunter. who would get a $350,000, one-year contract 
..,. if he makes the team. Cleveland agreed to a minor league deal with left-hander 
Mark Langston, who would 
get a $300,000, one-year con­
tract if he's added to the 
major league roster. 

Others offered arbihation 
were first baseman Jeff 
Coninf' and left-hander Arthur 
Rhodes (Baltimore); right­
hander Omar Olivares 
(Oakland}; left-hander Norm 
Charlton (Tampa Bay); right­
hander Aaron Sele and third 
baseman Todd Zeile (Texas); 
left-hander Graeme Lloyd and 
first baseman David Segui 
(Toronto); right-hander Steve 
Trachsel (Chicago Cubs); 
right-hander Juan Guzman 
(Cincinnati); outfielder 
Shawon Dunston and left-han­
der Kenny Rogers (Mets); 
third baseman Dale Sveum 
(Pittsburgh): and outfielder 
Thomas Howard and left-han­
der Darren Oliver (St. Louis). 

Rogers' agent, Scott Boras, 
disputed the Mets' right 'to 
offer arbitration to his client. 

"We have a clause in his 
contract that says that if his 
option wasn't exercised, 
which it wasn't, beca.use we 
had it removed, they can't 
offer arbitration," Boras said. 

The Mets also offered arbi­
tration to Olerud in case 
there's a problem with his 
Seattle deal. 

Olerud, one of the top play­ers in a weak free-agent class, opted to return to his home­town, agreeing to a $20 mil­lion. three-year contract with the Mariners. 
"This was a real difficult decision for me," Olerud said. "There were times where I was leaning toward the Mets. definitefy. I came close, but never to the point where I said 'Let's go for it.'" 
The first baseman, coming off an $8 million, two-year deal, said the Mets made a "very comparable" offer. The contract with Seattle calls for salaries of $6.35 million in 2000, $6. 7 million in 2001 and $6.95 million in 2002. 
"I think if it was any other team other than the Mets, it would have been a real easy decision," Olerud said. 
With the Mariners, Olerud will be able to commute to Safeco Field for home games. He has a wife and 15-month­old son living in Seattle and will be able to play in front of his parents. He also has grandparents on both sides of the family in Seattle 
"We couldn't match that," Mets general manager Steve Phillips said. "It really boiled down to what city he wanted to play in." 

Mer1's ·-----•-:: ;: 
, ,@:;!.:O,
T -,, 
ti 

NCAA BASKETBALL 
Boilermakers defeat Redbirds 
Associated Press 

NORMAL, Ill. 
Jaraan CorneU and Maynard Lewis scored 19 points apiece to lead five Boilermakers in double fig­ures Tuesday night as No. 25 Purdue beat Illinois Stah~ 86­75. 
Purdue (4-2) was clinging to a 50-49 lead with just over 13 minutes to play when the BoilermakMs went on a 13-3 run over the next three min­utes that put the game away. Cornell hit two jumpers dur­ing the run, while Lewis knocked down one of his three 3-pointers. 
Illinois State (2-4) never got closer than nine points after that. 
Both teams were hot from the outside throughout the contest. Purdue was 10-of-17 from beyond the 3-point line, while the Redbirds went 7 -of­
14. Lewis, who came off the bench to score his career-
high 19, was perfect in three 
attempts from long range. 
Brian Cardinal scored 14 
points for the Boilermakers, 
while Carson Cunningham 
added 13 and Mike Robinson 
10. Purdue shot55 percent from the field fur the game. 
Illinois State's Tarise Bryson kept the Redbirds in the game by hitting all five of his 3-point attempts on his way Lo a team-high 22 points. 
L. Dee Murdock contributed 15 points and 10 rebounds for ISU. P.J. Smith had 14 points and Shawn Jeppson 13. 
No. 23 Kentucky 86, 
NC-Asheville 41 

Desmond Allison scored 15 points as No. 23 Kentucky broke its longest losing streak in nearly a decade with a win over North Carolina­Asheville. 
After successive losses to Arizona, Dayton and Indiana, a Rupp Arena date with the winless Bulldogs (0-8) was 
precisely what Kentucky (4-3) 
needed to get back on track. 
The win stopped the Wildcats' worst slide sinr,c they dropped five straight in December and January of 1989-90. when Hick Pitino was in his first season as coach and the team was on NCAA probation. 
The Wildcats, anemic of'fon­sively for much of the season, shot 45.6 percent from the field and scored a season­high 84 points. 
The defense, a source of concern f'or coach Tubby Smith after Indiana shot 54.7 percent from the floor in Saturday's 83-75 loss, tight­ened, limiting the Bulldogs to just 36.1 percent shooting (15 of 44) and forcing 29 turnovers which led to 37 Kentucky points. 
One day after Smith sai<l he was thinking about benching Allison, following a scoreless performance against Indiana, he responded with his best performance of the season. 

NEEDS COMMISSIONERS! 
Pick up your applications outside #315 LaFortune from November 29th -December 8th 
LAST DAY FOR SIGN-UPS IS TOMORROW! 
Questions? Call 1-6028 or e-mail us at BKSTR.l@nd.edu 
This Fri relay 
ts
vs. ·"'··"' 
:):lr1\,:;r

7:00pm Jo\t .. _ , ldhouse 
First 375<'Stude· 
Continental 
Express 


.. ---~--------------­
Wednesday, December 8, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 27 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Dayne wins AP Player of the Year 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Hon I>ayrrn had his masons f'or staying at Wisr.onsin instead of' running off early to the NFL. 
1111 wanted to spend another yuar with his 2-ycar-old daugh­tnr, .Jada, and his girlfriend, Alia Lllster. lie wanted to earn a dllgrn11 in /\fro-American studies. And he wanted to brnak tlrn NCAA major college career rushing rncord. 
Onn thousand eight hundred thirty-four yards latnr -and much closer to a diploma ­l>ayrw accomplished everything lw set out to do in his senior season. 
On Tuosday, he won The Associatnd l'rnss' College Player of' tho Year Award in balloting by AP member news­papnrs, TV and radio stations. 
Dayne rncllived 43 of' the 82 votos in the Al' balloting. lie bnat Virginia Tech rndshirt f'rnshman quarterback Michael Vick, who had 14 votes. Purdue quarterback Drnw Brnes was third with six votns. 
"Although my name is on the award, I share it with my line­men and fullback -they do all the hard work and I just run," Dayne, of Berlin, N.J., said. "Winning this player of the year award is nice because it is picked by the people who watch the game closely." 
Hecently, Dayne won player of the year awards from the Walter Camp Foundation and The Sporting News. Ile is the favorite to win the lleisman Trophy on Saturday night. 
Dayne broke Hicky Williams' 1-year-old Division I rushing record in his final game at Camp Randall Stadium. The Badgers' 5-foot-10, 254-pound tailback ran for 216 yards in a 41-3 rout of Iowa last month to boost his career total to 6,397 yards, breaking Williams' mark of 6,279 yards. 
Dayne led No. 4 Wisconsin (9­
2) to its first outright Big Ten Conference title since 1962 and a second straight trip to the Hose Bowl. He carried 303 times for 1,834 yards -a 6.1­yard average -and scored 19 touchdowns. 
This season he ranked second nationally in rushing at 166.7 yards a game. He was fourth in scoring (10.4 points) and ninth in all-purpose yardage (167.6). He also ran for 200 or more yards four times. 
The numbers are even more impressive considering he sat out the second halves of blowout wins over Murray State, Ball State and Indiana. In an easy victory over Michigan State, Dayne ran for 214 yards but carried only once in the fourth quarter. The Spartans came into the game with the No. 1 rushing defense. 
"This award is a great tribute for Ron, the ultimate team play­er, to realize this individual acclaim as the nation's top player," Badgers coach Barry Alvarez said. "He has epito­mized our program with his no­nonsense, blue collar approach." 
After his record-setting game Nov. 13, there was a ceremony to acknowledge the Badgers' second straight trip to the Rose Bowl. There was also a surprise for Dayne. 
If our delicious, flame-broiled double cheeseburger were any bigger, we'd need to buy more ad space. 
Noth.mg beats our big, juicy Double Cheeseburger. It's got the great taste of flame broiling and has 75% more beef than McDonald's~ Cheeseburger. 
(Price and participation may vary.) 
The Huddle • Lafortune Student Center 
.. 
It just tastes better. 
C1998 Burger King Corporation. Burger King Corporation is the exclusive licensee of the Bun Halves logo trademark. McDonald's is a reglslen,d trademark of Ille McDonald's Corporation. 
NBA 
Carter leads Raptors over Cavaliers 
Associated Press 
TORONTO 
Vince Carter scored 15 of 

his 32 points in the decisive 
third quarter as the Toronto 
Raptors beat the Cleveland 
Cavaliers 101-98 Tuesday 
night. 
Carter, coming off a 

career-high 39 points 
against San Antonio on 
Sunday, missed 9 of 14 shots 
in the first half as the 
Raptors fell behind by 11 
points. But he found the 
range in the third quarter, 
hitting 6 of 8 shots as the 
Haptors outscored the 
Cavaliers 31-13 to take con­
trol. 
Carter hit a 3-pointer with 

2:04 left in the third to give Toronto a 64-63 lead and then added a short turn­around jumper. 
Following a technical foul on Carter with 39.6 seconds left, Brevin Knight made three straight free throws to cut Toronto's lead to 98-95. But the Raptors held on for their third straight victory. 
Dee Brown scored 14 points of his season-high 17 points for Toronto in the first half. He was 5-of-10 from 3­point range. 
Knicks 89, Warriors 83 
Without a kind gesture for 
P.J. Carlesimo or a harsh word for any hecklers, Latrell Sprewell did enough damage in one half to keep John Starks from feeling at home in his return to Madison Square Garden. 
Sprewell abused Starks when they were matched head-to-head and scored all 21 of his points in the first half as the New York Knicks defeated Golden State to send the Warriors to their 10th straight loss. 
It was the second meeting of the season between Sprewell and the coach he once choked, and it was a different atmosphere from the night two weeks ago in Oakland when Sprewell spurned Carlesimo's attempt at a pregame handshake and engaged in a vulgar dialogue with hecklers. 
Most of the hype, instead, surrounded Starks' return to the arena where he played for eight seasons. 
Starks, the first player introduced prior to the game, blew kisses to the crowd as they gave him a 10­second standing ovation. But that warm moment was one of the few ones for Starks, 
Happy 21st 

BILL HENNESSEY! 
(on the 29th) 
~<We~/M,«4­··· ad-/M, etad. L~. ?ltoM.PeW'Ud. 
7~'96 
~•99 
who missed his first four 
shots and his final five and 
was helpless early on when 
he had to defend Sprewell ­
the player he, Chris Mills and 
Terry Cummings were trad­
ed for on Jan. 21. 
Pacers 83, Spurs 77 
Heggie Miller scored 23 

points as the Indiana Pacers 
defeated the San Antonio 
Spurs. 
The loss was the third 

straight for the defending 
NBA champions, all on the ..... 
road. Indiana, which was 
held for eight minutes in the 
second half without a field 
goal, posted its fourth con­
secutive victory despite 
shooting only 36 percent 
from the field. 
Miller, who was 5-for-9 

from 3-point range, hit a 3­
poin ter with 1-:26 left that 
gave the Pacers a 81-77 lead 
with 1 :26 left. After Duncan 
missed a jumper and Indiana 
got the rebound, Miller 
assisted on a Rik Smits bas­
ket that gave Indiana an 83­
75 lead. 
Smits finished with 18 

points and Al llarrington 
contributed 13 points to the 
victory. Johnson was the 
only other Spur in double fig­
ures with 15 points as David 
Hobinson scored just six 
points on 3-of-12 shooting 
from the field. 
Pistons 116, Bucks 112 
Grant Hill scored 31 points and the Detroit Pistons over­cam e a 16-point halftime deficit with a 70-point sec­ond half to beat the Milwaukee Bucks 116-112 Tuesday night. 
Hill, averaging 32.5 points in his last four games, added 12 assists as the Pistons won for only the second time in their last six games. 
Jerry Stackhouse added 26 points, including four points in the final 37 seconds, as the Pistons snapped the Bucks' two-game winning streak. 
Grizzlies 104, Mavericks 95 
Shareef J\bdur-Hahim had 26 points and 15 rebounds, and Brent Price hit two 3­pointers down the stretch as Vancouver snapped an 1 I ­game losing streak with a victory over i>allas. 
Michael Dickerson added 21 points and Othella llarrington had 1<> to help Vancouver get its f'irst road win of the season af'tcr open­ing with seven straight defeats away from home. 


NCAA FOOTBALL 
Big 12 places six schools in post-seaon bowls 
By JOSHUA CAMENZIND 
U-Wire 
LINCOLN. Neb. 

The Big 12 Conference will !ind itself bowling six times over in the 1999-2000 college foot­ball bowl season. 
Oklahoma, Kansas State, Nebraska. Colorado, Texas and Texas A&M all will try and bet­ter the 3-4 record compiled by Big 12 teams in bowls last post­season. Texas Tech was the only Big 12 bowl-eligible team that did not get invited to a bowl. 
Oklahoma (7-4) will face Mississippi (7•4) in the Independence Howl on Dec. 31 al 7:30 p.m. The bid marks the first bowl for the Sooners since 1994. 
OU Coach Bob Stoops said he is pleased with leading his team 
t.o a bowl in his first. year as a head coach. 
"We realize that being in a bowl is an aw4rd for having a solid year," Stoops said "I am appreciative of our seniors and the leadership on our team in our first year here." 
Ole Miss running back Deuce McAllister is looking forward to playing the Sooners. 
"They have great tradition at Oklahoma," McAllister said. "You usually think of the wish­bone offense with them, but they have a great quarterback, and they really like to air it out. 
"Their coach [Stoops] knows a l()t about defense and has done a great job out there. It is going to be a great challenge for our offense against their defense." 
Kansas State (10-1) will play Washington (7-4) in the Holiday Bowl on Dec. 29 at 7 p.m. after being snubbed by the Cotton Bowl. 
Wildcat Coach Bill Snyder said his team is looking forward to 
emotionally for this football 
team. 
"We were not well enough prepared to win the Alamo Bowl. It was an emotional and mental thing because there was so much residue left from the Big 12 Championship game." 
Texas (9-4) will meet Arkansas (7-4) in the Cotton Bowl. The game, in Dallas, will be played at 10 a.m. on Jan. l. 
Thfl Longhorns and the Razorbacks will renew a border rivalry that climaxed 30 years ago in the "(~ame of the Century," won by Texas 15-14. UT went on to win the national title. 
Arkansas won the last matchup in l 991 14-B. but the rivalry ended when UT left the Southwest Conference. The rivalry will be renewed again in 2003 when Arkansas travels to Austin. 
Texas Coach Mack Brown said his team will have no problem building emotion for the game. 
"When you arc coaching at the University of Texas, you nflrd to win your bowl games," Brown said. "There is not a game that is not important to you. We would like to be a top 10 team. 
"Arkansas has beaten Tennessee and Mississippi State. They have had some big wins this year, so it will be a hard game for us. To play the emo­tional game against Texas A&M, and then the game against Nebraska and this will be an emotional game because it is a renewed series with Arkansas." 
Texas A&M (8-3) will face Penn State (9-3) on Dec. 28 in the Alamo Bowl al 6:30 p.m. Both teams are ranked No. 13 in one of the two major polls, the Aggies in The Associated Press Poll and PSU in the Coaches 
Poll. . 

CU assistant coach Tom Cable said the fourth-quarter finish against Nebraska will help the Buffs' confidence. 
"The kids really stayed togeth­er and found out a lot about themselves," Cable said. "If we just keep pressing and pressing against a great team like Nebraska, we can ge.t going and be very good offensively. It will definitely be a springboard for us." 
Nebraska (11-1) will face Tennessee (9-2) in the Fiesta Bowl on Jan. 2 at 7 p.m. NU will represent the Big 12 as tpe only team in the BCS quartet of bowl games. 
Tennessee lost to Arkansas and Alabama by a combined six points and, just like the Huskers, could be looking at a national title shot if not for a late loss. 
Nebraska Head Coach Frank Solich said the bowl might be the best of any bowl played this season, but his team is hurting after the Big 12 Championship game against Texas. 
Heading into the game, the Huskers face many injuries coming off the 13ig 12 Championship win. Solich said his team is in bad shape at this point. 
playing an improved Washington team. led by former Colorado Coach Rick Neuheisel. 
"We have looked at Washington," Snyder said. "I see a team that has made vast improvement throughout the course of the season. That is what you would expect with a new staff and players becoming accustomed to each other." 
Snyder's team is a big favorite (11 points) against the Huskies, ..... just as they were against Purdue 
last year in the Alamo Bowl. 
Purdue beat KSU 3 7-34, but Snyder said he does not see sim­ilarities in the two games. 
"Last year's ball game is just different from this," Snyder said. "It is a ball game we need to prepare well for. Last year was a little different scenario because we were coming off a loss to Texas A&M. That was a tremendously punishing loss 

The bowl will pit two teams with national title hopes that fell apart quickly after good starts. PSU has lost three straight games after beginning the sea­
.son 9-0. A&M started a downslide Oct. 2, losing to Texas Tech, and followed with pound­in gs by Oklahoma and Nebraska. 
But the Aggies beat their rival. Texas, 20-16 after tragedy struck campus, and that emo­tion may carry over in a game with the Nittany Lions . 
Colorado (6-5) will be in Tucson on Dec. 31 to face Boston College (8-3) at 12:30 
p.m. in the Insight.com Bowl. The Buffaloes have struggled with inconsistency all year, los­ing to . Colorado State, Washington, Texas Tech, Kansas State and Nebraska. But they have looked good in other games and at times against the Wildcats and Huskers. 


FRIENDS OF RESIDENCE LIFE JOIN US FORA FINALS WEEK STUDY BREAK ! ! 
On December 16, 1999 from 10:00 a.m. -4:00 p.m. , the staff ofthe Office ofResidence Life invites you, all students, Rectors, Assistant Rectors, RAs and staff, to drop by our office (306 Main Building). Join us in closing another semester. Take time out ofyour busy finals week schedule to stop by for a chat, snack food arid beverages! 
We wish you the best ofHolidays ! 
Jeff Shoup 


Lori Maurer Mike Sacco 
Jeanne Johnson 
Lola Vrabel 


Wednesday, December 8, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 29 
... 
foel loo pumped up himself. /\lso. we have to gnt the
Fox 
squirrel from the Boston College gamo a bag of nuts or
continued from page 32 
som~thing. Not only did Im not 
t.lmy cil'SfffVf!d a lmw•r snason than tllf'y ){of. and tlwy d1~s1:n1~ f\lljoy Lhis feast of pep­peroni hn,adsticks in thn Laforturw lfuddlP. 
I am sorry. though. guys. I 
nm'! invit<1 your coach. 
Individual invitations and comnwrnlations am also 1•xtc\n<IPd to llrn following 1wo­pk: Troy :'v1urphy, mnn's has­kethall, f'l,r spoaking up and saying what wri all nlways wm1I to sav abotJl refs: .Jarious 
lurks1111, r(mtball, for lnadnr­ship ancl iiwrmlible d!'dkalion; 
Hui.Ii Hiloy, womc-11's lmsknl­ball. l'or 1tomirmli11g l{anrns and 1•ar11ing Bii-: East Pluynr of tlw WHnk honors; and Miko Brown. Noire' llanw l1•p­rcchatm. f'or pumpin~ people 
up wtwn hn probably didn't l"roak out in front of 80,000 
pcoplo, h11 tinally managed to 
score. I guess our squirrels 
rnally ani arrogant -or at 
least prnlty confident. 
Well. lhal about wraps up tho gtwst list for my holiday µ;atlwring. I hop,i thorn are f\1wugh BK Big Fishes and hot chncolat(JS to go around. Nothing krt to do now hut sit down and enjoy this l'easL of !lex points. 
Oh. and don't mind that banging al the window -il's. jnst Bob Davin. 
Like I suid before, I can'tjusL Int evnrybody in. 
The 1Jiew~ expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily ihose of The Ob,,;erver. 
VISUALIZE 
YOUR FUTURE AS A 
CHIROPRACTIC PHYSICIAN 
LOGAN OFFERS: 
• 
Prominent, outstanding faculty. 

• 
A strong tradition of academic excellence and student success. 

• 
Modern state-of-the-art facilities. Financial aid to approximately 90% of our students. 

• 
Hands-on clinical experiences. Logan also offers a B.S. in Human Biology and an Accelerated Science 


Program (ASP). 
Prepare for an exciting career in health care. 
~

IlDGAN 
COlt(GE s Of t Ct,ilOflA(hc VI;/ 
1-800-533-9210 
http://www.logan.edu 

1851 Schoettfer Rd. • Chesterfield, MO 630I 7 
Phone: (31-4) ll7-2l00 • FAX: (314) 207-2425 loganadm@logan.edu An Equal Opportunity lnnitutian ofHigher Education 
!Recycle The Observer.I 
8-Ball 
continued from page 32 
enco to create winning opportunities for their teams. 
Hiley is averaging l 8 .4 points per game and is especially effective in the team's last outing against Liberty, whon she regis­tered a season-high 32 points. These scoring fig­ures arc more impressive considering llrnt, because of foul trouble, the first­team ;\II-American has only averaged 20.8 minutes p1ir gamn. 
Hiley's list ofimpressive figurns goes on: shfl is shooting with almost 7 4 percent accuracy and has not missed a free throw yet. 
Hor scoring counterpart on Purdue's roster is equal­ly talented. Douglas is aver­aging 22 points per game and is as stingy on defense as she is potent on ofTense. She averagAs about two steals and five defensive rebounds per game. 
Riley nnd Douglas are not tho only two players with potential to tight up the court tonight. Notre Dame's Alicia Ratay has proven in just five colle­giate regular-season out­ings that she is a force. The team's leading scorer. Ratay has hit double digits in each game except one this season. The threat of hor deadly three-pointer will keep the Purdue defense tight. 
Mackey Arena, consid­ered one of the most intimi­dating courts for oppo­nents. will present a tough Boilermaker roster. Notre Dame will need tough play from Riley, Ratay and the rest of the Irish lineup from the outset to come out on top. 
0 N S 
• ~~oot I '.. . . :.~.., logy 
• ~~P _. lbf,tlna Cutture 
• ~-ummer lnttlil.e !!r.,~~ ·VJtlhlF-1111dln 
• Tllt:•lmmlgrant ~''!'· .Summedooo Study Abr~i}'t-. ' t. •.. • ·. ... 
. • ,.,,;,,,.::,,, . II. 
• CGllfral Euntr,eafl IDllhap,t ""' Clldl-~bUc and Slovakfcr 
• lnsld~ Frenei Tbeatre In'f,t'.1mop \ 
• 
Modell Of Educallanal DelWtry In Spallf 

• 
PllleoanlllroHfeltlCCII Field ScftOOI In Cblnt . 

• 
'hl,uy-1 the U.&,rCUltural Foundation of 21~,Century Eduoiinon and Re1onn In a 91°"1 Context · \ 1 . 

• 
WJIIIGm Moir,, I tllt. Engl11h Alfl & Crafts IQMltnd 

• 
Women'I oev--.at In Nepal, . . · " , 


Summer, Sp~.,:1Ji:'.Jmd lnle·-~•ogfJ)ms
Summer Session Dat!IS: "1iy' 23 to June· 30 and J111y1 ro Augllll 1 o 
!. ':t-'!--..•~... :·.. '-~-:. ·: ; • •, 
website: m.su~metgwu.edu emah: sun1pn,gs@gwu.edu ·,.. ' ·< CALL: (202) 994i1310 · ' . .. ' .•: ·, . . ;/: ' ··: 


MIKE HARRISrThe Observer 

Alicia Ratay drives against Butler on Wednesciay. Ratay was 
named Big East rookie of the week for her play in Notre Dame wins over North Carolina, Liberty and Butler. 
Readings leaves Sydney committee 
Associated Press 
SYDNEY, Australia 

Paul Reading, responsible for the Sydney Olympics ticketing­controversy, left the organizing committee SOCOG. 
A spokesman for SOCOG would not say Wednesday if Beading was fired or quit. Reading bore most of the public criticism after he put aside hun­dreds of thousands of prime tickets for sale in premium packages at up to three times face value. 
The SOCOG board, led by chief executive Sandy llollway and president Michael Knight, said they had not been informed of Reading's move, which was made to help bridge a budget shortfall. · 
The premium packages meant the tickets were not available in a public ticket ballot as promised by SOCOG. 
Reading's position with SOCOG was downgraded last month aftnr a review slammed the ticketing process. lie was stripped of responsibility for ticketing and finance, leaving him in charge of the marketing and hospitality pro){rams. 
Reading was appointed SOCOG 's general manager, commercial and marketing, in August l'ollowing Urn resigna­tion of marketing boss John Moore. IOC president .Juan ... Antonio Samaranch spoke Tuesday with Michael Knight anddownplayed the ticket con­troversy. 
"It was a problem, but I think now it is solved," Samaranch said at an IOC conferonco in Lausanne. 
G) AR-~~ 
..... ~
.

j 
December 9, 1999 
·Cl) Thursday 
7-9pm 

Joyce Center Ice Rink 
C: 
CD Bring your Student ID for 
0. 
FREE ADMISSION ANO SKATE RENTAL Hot Chocolate and 
0 
cookies will be provided For more information, 
please call RecSports at 1-6100 
~ 



page 30 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, December 8, 1999 
HOCKEY 

Men's B-Ball 
continued from page 32
Minutemen visit Irish 
the match-up and the rest of thP upcoming gamPs. "We have a hell of a stretch
for two-ga111e series 
. 
By BILL HART Associarc Sports Editor 

While the academic semes­ter is drawing to a close, the Notre Dame hockey tPam still has a little bit of cleaning up to do before exams. 
On Friday and Saturday. the Irish take on the University of Massachusetts Minutemen in a two-game serirs at the Joyce Center. 
The series marks the start of a month-long, six-game, non­conference schedule for the Irish. Apart from a pair .of
. games against Michigan State last weekend, NotrA Dame has not played a CCHA game in 55 days, something that's bePn frustrating for a few members of the Irish squad. "Yes, [it's difficult]." fresh­man center Connor Dunlop said about the non-conference stretch. "But at the same time, we realize that we've had a limited amount of playing time. We realize that the those CCHA games at the second half of the season are going to be crucial." 
The Minutemen sport a 3-7­2 record and a two-game los­ing streak after being swept at the hands of rival Boston University last weekend. In the final of the series against the 10th-ranked Terriers, Minuteman Jedd Crumb tied the game at three at six min­utes, 23 seconds into the third period. UMass held out until 
17 .4 seconds remained in overtime, when BU scored on a scramble in front of the crease. 
The defeat keeps the Minutemen winless in the Hockey East, despite a career­high 30 saves from starting goaltender Mike Johnson. The team is 0-6-1 in conference play. 
Notre Dame and UMass have met only twice on the ice. During the 1994-1995 season, the teams held a two-game series at Amherst. The Irish won the first game, 6-3, before losing an overtime game, 4-3. 
Notre Dame currently is tied for ninth place in the CCHA 
PUT YOUR SPANISH TO WORK! 
La Casa de Amistad, a non-profit Latino organization is looking for individuals to fill: 
Full time position, runs adult education and other community programs. Must be 100% fluent in English and Spanish 
,, 

Part time positions, bilingual a plus. Great opportunity to practice Spanish. 
Please send your resumes to: 
Eric Hernandez, 746 S. Meade St. South Bend, IN 46619 
(219) 233-2234 
Still, some sources in the lineup are providing the team with a needed boost. Dunlop is currently tied for third on the team in scoring with eight points and four goals, while senior left wing Andy Jurkowski has eight points in his last 11 games, already sur­passing his career season high. 
Sophomore center David Inman, after a 10-goal, 10­assist season last year, has seven goals this season. 
"I think we're on the right track," Dunlop said. "Our con­fidence is high after the tough weekend. I think the season's turning around." 
See you in Y2K 
The Observer won't publish again in 1999. 

,.. 

JEFF HSUrrhe Observer Senior point guard Jimmy Dillon drives agains the Commodores, Saturday in an overtime loss. The Irish look to snap their four­game losing streak tonight against the Crusaders. 
less than 20 points just one time so far this season. 
Tonight's game marks the 39th meeting between the two teams. The Irish lead the series 35-3 and hold a 27-2 record against the Crusaders at home. The teams last met on Nov. 27, 1994. 
In that game, the Irish post­ed a season-opening 77-69 win. 
with Bowling Green. The 
CCHA standings, however, are 
very tight with just six points 
separating Notre Dame and 
third-place Michigan. 

"It's be en kind of a weird 
season," Dunlop said about 
the standings. "A lot of the 
lower teams arc winning some 
games they're not supposed 
to. But its just shows how 
competitive the league is this _season." 
Strong goaltending from an 
unlikely source -freshman 
Tony Zasowski -has allowed 
Notre Dame to come back 
from a 0-4-0 start in the 
CCIIA. The first freshman to 
start since Matt Eisler in 1994, 
Zasowski has already notched 
two solo shutouts -the sec­
ond Irish goalie to do so in the 
same season -as well as con­
ference rookie of the week 
honors. 

"He's been real strong for 
us," Dunlop said about 
Zasowski's play. "He's made 
some key plays, big saves and 
just come through for us when 
we needed it, like in that win 
against Michigan State." 

Following the graduation of 
three top scorers from last 
season, the greatest struggles 
for the Irish have been on 
offense. The team has allowed 
an average 2.6 goals per 
game, slightly lower than last 
year's average. Their total 36 
goals (2.3 per game), however, 
falls behind last year's pace of 
58 goals at the 16-game mark 
in 1998-1999. 

coming up," Doherty said. "Valpo is going to be very good. That was a stupid game for me to schedule because they are northern Indiana and they're going to be fired up." 
The Crusaders now stand at 2-4 on the sPason and fell to Minnesota 57-44 in their last outing. The Gophers built a 12-point lead at 43-29 with 9 minutes, 36 seconds to play before Valparaiso scored 10 straight points to climb with­in 43-39 at 5:40. 
Then the Gophers, who missed eight consecutive free throws. had a 9-2 spurt for a 52-44 lead and finished the game sinking 6 of 8 foul shots. Valpo shot just 29 per­cent as a team. 
The Crusaders, the presea­son favorite to win the Mid­Continent Conference, are led by Ivan Vujic. The 6-foot-11 center is averaging 13.7 points per game and 7.5 rebounds per contest. Vujic, however, got in foul trouble against Minnesota and fin­ished with just eight points. 
Notre Dame sophomore center Harold Swanagan has yet to regain his form from last season and will have his hands full with Vujic. Troy Murphy the other hand, should present a challenge for the Crusaders. Murphy has six double-doubles on the seaso.n and has been held to 
Many Notre Dame Students choose not to drink. For those who do drink, males average 1 time a week and females 2 times a month. 
*Based on randomly sampled self-report in Spring 1999, average frequency for on-campus ND undergraduates.~.\__ :,,_ ,.. ,., .~(_--· 
Am~ssage from PlllABS & Alcohol and Drug Educatio 
... 


Wednesday, Decnnbcr 8, 1999 The Observer . TODAY page 31 

EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 40 Victorian 70 Entreat 
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1999 
1 States 41 See 22-Down 71 Goes on TV CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS pos1t1on. 00000 6 Lawyers make it 43 Eng. defender 72 " Fell Out of DAY: Kim Basmger, Sinead O'Con­VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Plea­Heaven" (1936 nor, Gregg Allman, Flip Wilson. sure trips will result in new low rela­
10 Quarrei 44 Sicilian spouter 
hit) Ma•imilian Schell tionships. You can make lucrat11·e
14 Kosher 46 Oil city of west 
Happy Birthday: Your motto will mwstments if you are willing to put15 Last word in the Texas DOWN be think big or go home this year. \'Our cash on the line Much kno,d· New Testament 47"_my You ma1· be tempted to take on too edge can be obtained if you're will· 
16 Olio brother's 1 Totality much, leaving yourself in a position mg to list,:,n. 00 keeper?" 2 Neck design that could compromise your work. LIB RA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): You
17 See 22-Down 
Keep in mind that it isn't h(1W much should consider making changes to
48 Florida's Miami­3 It may be
19 Old Phillips 66 ­
1·ou Jo. it's how well you do it vour living quarters. Get the whole 
_ County coddled

rival 
Sound finanoal advice will be neces­tamily to pitch in and help. You can 20 All over the SO Swimming pool 4 Hastily puts sary 1f )'OU don't want to lose pick up some valuable knowledge 1f counter, say site, sometimes together ground Your numbers 6, 17, 25, 32, ,·.ou listl"'n to those with expene,11:e 
21 Sacred place 
52 See 22-Down 5 aerobics 39, 44 0000 ARIES (March 21-April 19): SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 211: Con· 
22 Elizabethan 57 Salon job 6 Monte 
Opportunities for advancement will tribute your time, not your cash, to 
pronoun 58 Search blindly 7 Valuable violin 
develop through hard work or col­a worthwhile cause. You will n,,t
8 Jiffy

25 See 22-Down 59 Cleo of jazz leagues who believe tn your abilities. do well with inl'estments or pur­28 Chips in 61 "_ il the 9 From Okla. City Present Vllllf ideas or consider get­chases. Lock your mone,· up in a to Tulsa ting mto your own small business in safe place. This is not the time to be
30 Sphere truth!" 
1oFinish, of a sort the new year 00000 extravagant 000
62 See 22-Down31 "Norma 

TAURUS (April 20-:\.iay 201: SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 32 Meathead's 67 Dirty Don't underestimate one of your 21): Tie up loose ends at work even ,i
11 Ziti or orzo 
12 Examine
lather-in-law 68 "Bye!" competitors. You will have to do it does mean missing your lunch or 36 Like a very rare 69 Ruth's mother­13 Thunderous some technological researrh ii you staying ,1 little late. It is best tc, stick one? don't want to fall beh111d in your to yourself and avoid confrontations
day in hell in-law 
18 Chip's partner field. It's hme to do a little personal or d~bates of any krnd l\'lth your 21 Simian 
,1pdate as well. 000 loved ones. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 191:
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
22 Word that 
partner won·t be happy if you're too You can make changes that willprecedes six Puzzle by Chris Sallade busy to help out around the house. enhance your personality as well ,,s
other answers 
You should find ways to increase the )'Our appearJnce. Don't let others
38 Not so 55 Villainous 62 Big TV maker
in this puzzle value of vour prernises or consider bully you into agreeing with them <'r
believable Shakespearean 
63 Sequel's sequel 
23 The Tin the fh)Ssibility of making a residen­backing one of their ideas. 000
roles
Woodsman's 39 See 22-Down 64 Camp sight ti.il mol'e 000 AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 181: quest 42 Hit hard 56 Spasm CANCER (June 21-July 22): Investments will not be as solid as
65 Actress 

Shoppi11g ,hould be on your agend.i. they appear. You must read the fme
24 City on the 45 With skill 58 Exhibit shock Thurman 
It's tinw vou made an effort to change pnnt before you decide to go ahead
Allegheny River 
49 Sampras 60 Ship of 66 What to call a 1·our look Pass10nate encounters can and sign your life away. Unusual cir­...
26 Manicurists' 
specialty Columbus baronet be made ii you get out with friends cumstances w,11 anse, causmg hnan­
jobs 

000 CJal concerns. 0000
51 Met production 

27 Walnuts and LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't tell PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20), You 
responsibilities?

others Answers to any three clues in this puzzle others what you have discovered. mustn't let your mate get you gomg. 52 Rap sheet It 1s bt>st to hold your cards close Yllu are likely to argue ,1bout even·­
29 Dated are available by touch-tone phone: 
to your chest if you want to get to thing. Changes in your home \\'ill be
33 Island Red listing 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
the bottorn of the situation Your una\'oidable. Acceptance will t,e
53 Aegean region 

E A T -:-:-t-=+.,,.+,-,-+-,e+-,,.-c 34 Gives up Annual subscriptions are available for the d1scrt't1L111 will !t,ad to ,, better necessary 00 L E T I D L E U 35 Part of a giggle 54 Opposite of best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 E R E P S S T I 37 Speak radial years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. Birthday Baby: You haw ,1 way with words that will make your requests 
h.,rd t,, turn down. You have> a strong will and the type of person,1hty th,,t mntcs popul,mty. You're entertaining, gilled .111d always on the go. (Need ,Hi\'lce7 Check out Eui;enia's Web sites at astro.,dvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com ) 
• 1~.-./'J I mH·r-,.11 i•n...._.. '-,u1dilolh'

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
-------------~-----------~-----------~-----------------------------------­
FOURTH AND INCHES 
Fox TROT 
WHAT ARE 
YOU C:HECktNG, TO DotN&? SEE IF oUR I iFIW1T 
IS Y2k

A 
COMPLIANT. 
I'M CHANGING ITS Bu1LT­l~ Cl,OCIC' To READ !ANUARY 1, 2000. IF IT OoESN'T WORI<', WE'LL HAVE TO &ET A WHOLE NEW MACHINE. KEEP 
YoUR FIN6ERS C:RoSSED. 
~ 

TOM KEELEY 
A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD JEFF BEAM 
BILL AMEND 
0 19151 8111 ~ ~ ~-"""' ity,r,dt;ttt
www.!oxtrotcom 

IT'S NOT NO, IT IS. 
COM• AAAA! I'M
DRAT. 

PLIANT? ENTER1N6 TliE LOUSY 
Ft6UR£S. 

NE,C.T M1LLENNIUM PIECE WITH A COM• oF 3'UNk'. PUTER THAT WON'T PLAY "H,t.LF-1.1FE°'! 

beam.1@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vita] source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
t 
Name _____________________ 
Address __________________ 
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 


PORTS 
Sleeping in Seattle 

Former Mets first baseman John Olerud packed his bags for Seattle Tuesday as he signed a three-year deal with the Mariners. 

page 32 
Invitations for a 
celebration 
A while ago, Mitch Albom, a spo.rts writer for the DAtroit free Press, started a thing he called "The Huddle." It is an exclusive society, and he invites or bans members of the sporting commu­nity based on their behavior inside and out­side of their sports. 
In honor of this tradition, I'd like to take a crack at forming my own "Lafortune Iluddle," a group whose members could all sit down to a nice hot bowl of Huddle 
-
Mart chili or a Whopper value meal from Burger King and enjoy a pre-holiday feast. 
So here we go: Whose get­ting invited into the LaFortune Huddle? 
First of all, let's get thP. women's soccer team in here. That's a no brainer. When you make it to the national championship game, that pretty much guarantees your spot. When you heat previously unbeaten and No. 1-ranked Santa Clara in the national semifinals -aveng­ing a 4-2 regular season loss -I'm throwing apple pies in with the Whoppers. 
Next, I have to invite in the men's basketball team and coach Matt Doherty. You 
... guys may be in a slump right now, but you're headed back to the top -where Irish bas­ketball belongs. 
Of course, I have to ask the ­women's basketball team to join me in front of that big screen TV, too. They already have Irish baskP.tball at the top -currently holding a 4-1 record and a Wachovia Women's Invitational Tournament title. On the way to that championship, the women disposed of then-No. 9 North Carolina -lighting the Tar Heels up for 99 points. 
If you read my column last week, you know I think a lot of the Notre Dame football team, so they're definitely invited. I won't go into the details all over again, but 

see FOX/page 29 

,. 
O
THE 

BSERVER Wednesday, December 8, 1999 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

ND aiills to end four-gam.e skid against Valpo 
By BRIAN KESSLER Sports Editor 
Christmas is coming and the Notre Dame basketball team aims to give first-year head coach Matt Doherty an earlv holiday gift -a win. 
Doherty and the Irish haven't tasted victory since Nov. 21 -a span that has seen Notre Dame drop four straight contests. Despite his team's struggles, Doherty is still upbeat because, though 

. his team has put forth great effort, his players aren't sat­isfied with moral victories. Last Saturday, the Commodores invaded the .Joyce Center and a contro­versial charging call against Troy Murphy late in the game allowed them to escape with an 87-85 victory. "The be-st thing is: our kids hurt,tt Doherty said following Saturday's 87-85 loss to Vanderbilt. "There are tears in there and that's great. I'm more excited about this team than our game against Ohio State." Notre Dame hosts Valparaiso at 7:30 tonight at the Joyce Center with hopes of ending their four-game skid. "We've got a lot of golf left," Doherty said. "We've only played a couple holes. I have to grade the effort and not so much the results. It's like in practice; l grade the shot we get and not whether it goes in or not. I think we're making progress." The Irish come off back-to­back overtime losses to No. 15 Indiana and undefeated Vanderbilt. Valpo has been slow getting out of the box. Doherty, how­ever, is still concerned about 
see MEN'S B-BALL/page 30 

WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish prepare for rematch with Boilermakers 
ment will 
By KERRY SMITH 

flood the Assistant Sports Editor 
court. Last year, the When a team plans from the Irish fell to start to make a run for the t h e i r national championship, every intrastate opponent poses a threat. rival as the But some are bigger than oth­Boliermak­

ers. ers went on Riley 
When the lrish travel to West to win the Lafayette, Ind., today to take on national title. the Boilermakers of' Purdue. The Irish will also face the memories of last year's tourna-challenge of beating the Boilermakers on their home to avenge their loss to the floor -a feat no team in the lust Boilermakers in the regional 20 games has been able to semifinals of last year's NCAA accomplish. tournament. 
But this is not last year, and When the two teams step on these are not last year's teams. -the court. all eyes will be focused Coming into the game. the Irish on the teams' lead(lrs -Irish are ranked seventh. The center Ruth Hiley and Boilermakers have fallen tu No. Boilermaker forwurcl/guarcl 
20. Katie Douglas. Both players have 
Purdue. at 4-1 on the season, anchored their teams this season comes off a loss to second­and lend the necessary experi­ranked Tennessee. The Irish, with a matching 4-1 record aim 
see 8-BALL/page 29 
vs. Valparaiso at Purdue Men's Swimming vs. Massachusetts Today, 7:30 p.m. Today, 7:30 p.m. at LSU Friday, 7:05 p.m. 
SPORTS 
ATA 

Today, All Day
GLANCE 










