
a z a a a a
~----,--~·-----w-----."W"_____...,____...,... 
On his own 
Earthquake 
John Popper's ha.rmonica takes on new 

Tuesday

At least 637 are dead and nearly 3,000 injured 
dimensions as he sets out with his first solo 
after an earthquake with a magnitude of7. 6 
album. Check out Scene to see how he.flies. 
shook Taiwan early Tuesday. 
SEPTEMBER 21, 
page 12 

page 5 
1999 
THE 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIII NO. 21 

FOOTBALL ON THE QUAD 

JOB TURNEMhe Observer Students took advantage of the last days of summer with some afternoon football on South Quad. Autumn begins Thursday. 
SMC awards four business majors 
award. Achievement Award. 
By KAREN FINK 
Ninmeier, a junior, Selected by faculty as "most New, \X/1it,·1· 
recnived Kl'MG's Principles likely to succeed" in public of Accounting Award. accounting, Epping received Various accounting f'irms Bridget Anderson, a 1980 a $500 award. honornd llo!Jvn NiPm«'inr. Saint Mary's alumna, award­"I was shocked to rr.ceive 
Krist.Pl\ i:ppiJig'. CIH•ndong nd thn $1,000 prizP. the award and honored that Liu and "! was the prof'essors thought so I a y m 1• very sur­highly of me," said Epping, YodPr, four "f was very surprised lo prised to who interned f'or Ernst & S a i II t n•cnivn the Young last summer and
receiue lhe award and I

Marv's award and plans to work for tho firm 
am lhank/id to all (f Ow

Coll;~g" I am thank­:1Jtcr graduation. a{TOUilting f)ro/(1 ssors 1l'lw nominated ful to all of Liu, a senior, reccivcd the lli:t,j ti I'S. f'o I' tlrn profos-McGladrny & Pullen aradPmic me. sors whu lntPrmncliatn Accounting 
f'.'\('4' l!PtlC(' n om in a ti; d Award for $500. in thnir Robyn Niemeier 111 (\ "I was honored to rnCfiivP 
l'.:tl'PPI' ffoid accounting major Niomnier rncognition from tho college Oil Sqi!. 12 said. "I and the company," Liu said. in Sl.aplnlon gtwss it "I appreciated the surprise l.oungP. g<ws to show that although it and being able to share it 
Fal'ulty lllPllllrnrs dntnr­do11sn 't sHem like it al timPs, with familv and friends." mi1wd ttw win1wrs bas1;d on all of' thn hard \,\'ork does pay Yoder r-ereived tho $500 llll' higlwst cumulalivP grad!' off." Crowe Chizek Income Tax point awrai.w in tlH\ courses Epping, a senior. won Award. She was unavailable 
(:orrPspo11Cli11g to each Ernst & Youn!{s Outstanding for comment. 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Former labor secretary to lecture tonight 
Cardinal O'llara lecture series,
By JESSICA DAUES 
named in honor of Cardinal News Wriccr 
O'llara, founder of Notre Dame's Collcgn of Business J\dminis'tration 
Lynn Martin, Presidont George and the University's 12th presi­Bush·s secretary of Labor, wi II dent. open t.he 1999 Cardinal O'Hara Martin servml as U.S. rnprosPn­lecture series a.t Notre Dame at tativ o for the 1(ith Dist r i cl of 
7:30 p.m. today 
Illinois in th1\ U.S. llousc of in Jordan Hnprnsentatives from 1981 -1Jl. Audiwrium. While in Congress, Martin was 
Martin's lec­vice chair of the influential llouse t u r P Hules Committoo. Sho was tlrn "Managing a first woman cl1~ctcd to a leadnr­New American ship position on Capitol II ill. Workforce," From 1991-93, Martin served as will "focus on secretary of labor under President the new factors Bush and is now the chair of
Martin 

managers have Deloitte and Touclrn's Council on to take into the Advanc1~ment of Women, "a account as we move into the 21st group that explores how to help century, such as what it means to women break out of the 'glass bring more ceiling'-that is, women and break into tho top
"The theme ofthe series is 
diversity into the ranks of busi­work force and to bring an ethical nPss," Williams 
what kind of dimension to management said. education and Martin has also
... Martin will be focusing 
training pro­been a frcqur.nt 
grams we should on respecting the human on
guest 

have to prepare dignity ofworkers" "Nightline," people <:Jf today's "Good Morning workplace," said America," "This
Father Oliver Williams 
Father Oliver WPek with David WilJiams, acade-academic director Brinkley," CNN's 
. mic director for "Crossfire" and the Center For "The Larry King Ethics and Religious Values in Show." 
Business. The University's Center for 
"The theme of the series is to Ethics and Heligious Values in bring an ethical dimension to Business is sponsoring the lecture. management," Williams said. Founded in 1978, the center 
"Lynn Martin will be focusing on augments Notre Dame's business respecting the human dignity of ethics curriculum, rated one of the workers." best in American higher educa­
Martin's lecture begins the tion. 

Pace-Joseph ticket wins freshlllan office 
received 35 pnrccnt of the
By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
total votes,
News Writer 
"We were disappointed," Jlackbush said. "But it was a 
Stephanie Pace and Alison really good election, and it 

Joseph collected 65 percent of was worth it. W!' really got to 
the total votes Monday to 
know people."
become the 
Thirty­

Class of 2003 
thren percnnt

"I was expecting a
president 
of' the f'rnsh­

and vice greater turnout ... we 
man class 

president. 
had to move inside chose not to 
Although 
vote, and 2

because ofthe weather. " 
voter turnout 
percnnt of was lower 

the class f'or­

than expect­
Crissie Renner m a I I y
ed Monday, 
abstainPd

elections commissioner
67 percent of 
from casting

the class cast 
a voto. Tlw 

hallots. 
numbers surprised elections 
"We're very honored," Paco commissioner Crissie H1rn1rnr. 

said. 
"I was expecting a grnat<'r
The second ticket, Jeni Hackbush and Caroline Dixon. 
see ELECTION/page 4 

-
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Tuesday, September 21, 1999 
INSIDE COLUMN QUOTES OF THE WEEK 

Enjoying the Ride 
I fought authority Friday, and authority won. 
The scene was University Park MaU. Myself and three friends escaped campus to take part in that rare opportunity to get off campus and join the wonderful world of retail and free enterprise. 
After shopping, we made our way toward the doors nearest the food court. I noticed something I hadn't when we first got to the maU -a miniature merry-go­round with three horses. 
Seeing it made 10 years of my life vanish. I was back in my childhood, right there. next to the cheesy bathtub display at the U. P. ma.11. Only a quarter to ride'' There was no way I was passing this up. 
I desperately searched my pockets for the change to make this early childhood relic come to life. I could see the excitement in my friends' eyes when I finally found a quarter. They knew they were in for a good time. 
I dropped the quarter into the slot and away we went. Three of us, almost uncomfortably crouched in the amusement ride, giggled ner­vously as each of us secretly felt stupid for riding the brightly colored miniature horses. But deep down inside, we knew we needed this. We need­ed a release -a return to the innocence we'd been missing for years. 
As the merry-go-round slowed down and our heads came down from the clouds, one of my friends felt a tap on her shoulder. 
ln walked "the law." 
"Do y'all want your ticket together?" a strong, arrogant voice asked behind us. "You guys know you're too old to be on that thing." 
And there it was -proof that mall cops truly have nothing to do. Did this guy, reminiscent of a body-building, bitter ,academy reject, really have nothing better to do than destroy the youthful spirit of three carousel-riders and their friend, who gleefully looked on? Was he really going to give us a ticket for lawfully paying for a quick ride down memory lane? 
Those damn college kids, with their radical tricks, he must've thought. Who do they think they are on that merry-go-round? What kind of statement are they making? I better stop this tomfoolery at once. 
It's a good thing he was worrying about four fun-loving college students and not, God forbid, shoplifters. 
We left the mall that day with many questions. The incident left us spinning -what was our role in society, as students and young adults? Were we really too old to be young? Were our tax dollars paying this guy to trail innocent mall­goers obviously committing no crimes? 
As short and as seemingly unimportant the ride was, it was the greatest thing we did that day. 
We fought authority and, now that I think of it, we won. 
We showed those fat cats in blue that fun has no age limit. We showed Father Tµne that he has nothing on us. We showed ourselves that we can go back -back to a time when we had no wor­ries, no bad grades, no internship letters. We tri­umphed that day in not only exercising our rights as quarter-paying, adventure-seeking individu­als, but also in enjoying life. We didn't want to draw attention to ourselves, or test the laws of 
U. P. Land to see just how far crazy college kids 
could go. We just wanted to ride. And we did. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News  Scene  
Joshua Bourgeois  Emmett Malloy  
Maureen Smithe  Jennifer Zatorski  
Finn Pressley  Graphics  
Sports  Mandi Powell  
Molly McVoy  Production  
Viewpoint  Mike Connolly  
Lila Haughey  Lab Tech  
Mary Leffers  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) i• published Monday ,hrough Friday except during exam a.nd vacation periods. The-Observer is a member of rhc A,soc1a,ed Press. All reproduction righi, are rcsc:IV<:d. 
"Until we make minorities comfortable here we will never have a diverse campus, and the athlete stereotype will continue.,, 
Chris Clement sophomore 

"/nformation does not always lead to knowledge and knowledge is rarely enough to produce wisdom." 
Ted Koppel 
'Nightline' anchor 
"By joining heads and hearts and working on behalf of working families we can create a future that's worthy ofour children." 
AI Gore 


presidential candidate 
"/ think a U.N presence is a good idea and it's likely to be needed there [East Tzmor] for some time to come." 
Robert Johansen government professor 
Compiled from U-Wire reports
OUTSIDE THE DOME 



Father files suit against University of Michigan 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. at Markley hall, as well as all our
"The univerity is sympathetic
George Cantor is suing the residence halls, are safe and did University of Michigan for negli­to the griefofthe Cantor not contribute to Ms. Cantor's gence in the death of his daughter family and friends." death," she said. Courtney Cantor, who suffered The Cantors are seeking an fatal injuries after falling from her unspecified amount of money
Julie Peterson

sixth-floor Mary Markley Residence above $10,000, said Susan Lister, Hall window last October. university spokesperson lawyer for the family. 
In a complaint filed Aug. 9, "That's an issue for the jury," George Cantor alleges that the uni­Lister said. "It's often the subject of 
cally on the case, but did say the
versity "failed to use due care and expert testimony."
lawsuit resulted from an eight­
caution in providing and maintain­An issue that may arise during a 
month investigation undertaken by
ing a reasonably safe and fit build­trial between the Cantor family and 
the family.
ing for students." the university is whether drugs and 
University spokesperson Julie
At issue is the question of who is alcohol contributed to Cantor's fall. 
Peterson denied that the university
to blame for the first-year student's Prior to her death, Cantor was 
was responsible for Cantor's death
death October 16. seen drinking at a party at the Phi 
in any way. 
The Cantor family says the univer­Delta Theta fraternity house. 
"The university is sympathetic to
sity is guilty of having faulty win­The Washtenaw County Medical 
the grief of the Cantor family and
dows, which open too wide, at Examiner's autopsy revealed that 
friends," Peterson said.
Markley and led to Courtney Cantor's blood alcohol level was 
"But we strongly believe that the
Cantor's death. George Cantor's 0.059, below the 0.1 legal limit for 
residence hall rooms and windows
lawyers refused to comment specifi-intoxication. 
Jewish freshmen balance college life 
EVANSTON. Ill. 
Jewish students arriving at Northwestern University last weekend had a busy New Student Week ahead of them. With Rosh Hashana falling on dorm move-in day and Yom Kippur coming on their last weekend before classes, some students felt overwhelmed while others enjoyed celebrating with a new Jewish community. Rabbi Michael Balinsky, director of NU's Hillel Cultural Life, said the holidays created more conflict than usual with the NU calendar this fall. Although some upperclassmen stayed home and Yorn Kippur fell on a busy weekend, attendance at most New Student Week events has been regular, with many incoming students and parents on campus, he said. "It's not your ideal vision of New Student Week, but it happens and we're managing," Balinsky said. The two Jewish· holidays often fall during New Student Week, but the university had few options to avoid a schedul­ing confict, said university chaplain Timothy Stevens. "The schedule was designed with an attempt to make sure there were no required activities during Rosh Hashana or Yorn Kippur," Stevens said. 
Floods threaten Princeton water supply 
PRINCETON, N.J. 

The Elizabethtown Water Company reported Sunday that normal service would not be restored until Wednesday at the earliest, meaning that students will be asked to go several more days without showers, laundry or drinkable water from taps. The company was forced to close its primary facility, after floodwa­ters from Tropical Storm Floyd put the plant under several feet of water. As of Sunday afternoon, no uni­versity students had been treated for consuming cont­aminated water at the McCosh Infirmary, according to Director of Health Services Dr. Pamela Bowen. Nevertheless, Bowen said there is the possibility of water contamination by e. coli or cryptosporidium. Meanwhile, university officials scrambled to decrease the campus' water usage. During the weekend, three campus-wide e-mails were sent asking that students reduce water consumption significantly. Bowen announced Sunday morning that the shortage was "urgent" and asked students to refrain from washing dishes and clothes. In addition, she advised students not to shower and to flush toilets less frequently. 

LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 

AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather<" forecast for noon, Tuesday, Sept. 21. Lines separate high temperature zones for the day 

O 1999 AccuWeather, •nc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
~IIUI'#: 

® © . t2:J fTil m3 ~ . -0 ~ ffl: 
High Low &how•r• Rain T-a1orms FIUtri•• Snow le• Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via ~r:-t,11 Prus 

Atlanta 77 56 Las Vegas 92 68 Phoenix 94 76 Baltimore 68 54 Memphis 74 52 Sacramento 71 55 Boston 65 59 Milwaukee 69 54 St. Louis 67 50 Chicago 62 43 New York 70 49 Tampa 88 71 Houston 88 60 Philadelphia 74 59 Wash DC 78 62 




Tuesday, September 21, 1999 The Observer . NEWS page 3 


Earthquake lab sends engineering project to Capitol Hill 
The display will be part of a The event, sponsored by The 
Special tu The Observer 

day-long summit highlighting Science Coalition, will take place recent advances in earthquake from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. in the 
Hescurch conducted in the 

technology made by federally Hart Senate Office 1:hlilding and
University's. Earthquake supported research projects at will include a luncheon and 

Fnginnering Laboratory will be America's colleges and universi­meetings with members ofdisplaynd Wedrwsday on Capitol ties. Congress.

llill. 

Be a Part of 
ND.OnTap.com 
Guaranteed to give you 
Fame 
(bleary eyes) 
Hot Dates 
(carpal tunnel) 

New Media Know-how 
(brain freeze) BORING people need not apply. EVERYONE ELSE, contact: 
nd@iturf.com 
This is an unofficial site not affiliated with the school. It is maintained by and for you, the students. 
Oetu-el"I.,,, Tk&1!!! Rzza.l G3@Gl1J ~[b© © . ©©~ lJ(!)©8cflGl~ijij  
Anytime Anytime12-~ you call between you call between 211 10 ~I . 5:30 & 7:00, 10:30-12:59 9 the price of your the price of your 2 large 1large 1 topping 6 topping pizzaspizza is the time you call.is the time you call. * Plus tax* Plus tax  
r--------------,Lunch Special I1 1 Small 1 Topping 1 ND store I 2 Cans of Coe.Cola product I Saint Mary's/ I· $5.99 North Village Mall 271-1177 L-----------------'I 271-PAPA  

Notre Dame is one of eight universities selected to provide demonstrations of the latest fed­erally funded science and engi­neering discoveries. 
Billie Spencer, professor of civil engineering and geological sciences, Michael Sain, profes­sor of electrical engineering, and other researchers in Notre Dame's Earthquake Engineering Lab developed a new system to protect buildings, offshore rigs, towers, roads, bridges, pipelines and other structurns from earth­quakes as well as from wind, waves, lightning and terrorist acts. 
. Florida resident first to receive life term under law 
Associated Press 
HAVANA 
A Cuban-born U.S. resident was sentenced to life imprison­ment for alien smuggling and a second got 30 years after a trial that showed the dangers some Cuban immigrants will risk to improve their work sit­uation or be with their fami­lies. 
The sentence, handed down on Friday, was not made pub­lic until court documents in the case were made available to journalists on Monday. 
Joel Dorta Garcia, 27. a resi­dent of Key West, Fla., became the first person to be sen­tenced to life for alien smug­gling under a new toughening of Cuba's penal code. 
David Garcia Capote, 32, who emigrated illegally to Miami earlier this year, was sentenced to 30 years. Pedro Cordova, an unemployed 29­year-old living in Mariel, out­side Havana, got 15 years. 
The men were arrested on July 3 after the 32-foot out­board boat they were piloting at a high rate of speed in tumultuous seas off the coast of Mariel flipped over, and a 45-year-old attorney aboard was drowned. 
Aboard the boat were 14 
CUBA 








Two Illen sentenced for alien sinuggling 

Discover Financial Services, Inc. a business unit of Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co., operates all Discover Brands with more than 46 million cardmembers and the Discover"/Novus Network•. The network is the largest independent credit card network in the United States with more than 3 million merchant and cash access locations. We are currently seeking individuals with experience in any of the following areas: 
COBOL • CICS • VSAM • DB/Z • JCL C • C++ • JAVA • ORACLE • UNIX ASSEMBLER • WINDOWS 95/NT • OOP PU1 ¦ DATA WAREHOUSING • OS/Z 
salaries and benefits, 401 K, profit sharing, tu~ion reimbursement, fitness center and a casual dress environment. If unab,e to attend, please send your scanable resume to: 
Discover Financial Services, Inc. Human Resources, IT Recruiter 2500 Lake Cook Road • Riverwoods, IL 60015 Fax: (847) 405-1388 
people, including live children. Authorities say the vessfd was only strong enough to carry six to eight people. 
Court documents paint a dramatic picture of the trip and the men's reasons for undertaking it. 
The boat set sail in the mid­dle of an electrical storm, amid choppy waves, frighten­ing the passengers. Some asked that the boat return to land, "but their pleas were not attended," according to docu­ments from the Popular Provincial Tribunal of Havana. 
The boat sped up when Dorta Garcia, the captain of the craft, noticed the Cuban Coast Guard was nearby. The craft flipped over, tossing everyone into the waves. 
The three men later arrested in the case joined Cuban guardsmen in rescuing pas­sengers from the rough seas. One passenger, attorney Sergio Maurilio Martinez, died. 
Martinez'  wife  and  two  
young daughters  were  also  
aboard.  Dorta  Garcia  and  
Garcia  Capote  were  also  

ordered to pay a small food allowance to the family every month to feed Claudia, 8, and Roxana, 13. 
Dorta Garcia had hoped to use the money earned from the voyage to buy a truck. Garcia Capote's primary moti­vation was to pick up his wife and 5-year-old son, left behind when he set sail for Florida several months before. 

Visit our Web Site at: 

www.novusnet.com 
EOE M/FiON




l•UII 


page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, September 21, 1999 
The new freshman class board held its first meeting
Election 
after the elections Monday night. Joseph and Pace were
continued from page 1 
already busy making plans for turnout," Henner-said. "We the year. had to move inside because of "W~ want to meet with our 
the weather." board and talk to our class before we make any deci-
SMC Freshman Class PresidentNice-President Election Results 
.ff'ni 
Abstained Hackhush/ 
2% Caroline Dixon 35% 

Stephanie Pac~e/Alison Joseph 63% 
MANDI POWELi/The Obsar,,er 

Justafraction ofwhat ffl! ~oo 
sports can help keep society mshape. 
J.l's.iOeasyrnhtlpyoor  -,­ fivch.ouriOf volurnoo-time  
oornmWUl.y, when you think  per week the.standard or  
aOOutit. Millionsofp,NJptcha\'e G•  U  gi\. nginA.menca. Cid.involvcd""ithihe 

l'Ve.1'1le. c.aus,syou careabou1 

hetp<dmJd<cfiV<pcrcenl or i.llClfinc:omcs.ilnrJ 11·bul......,~1..uu,..t111r and.give fac. 
lNOt'JIOUALGIVINGiVOLUNTEEftlNGCAMPAIC.N 
NEWS?APER AO NO IGV-19-1.f'9l-'!COL. 
--------------------------, 
HAIR MODELS NEEDED 
For Monday's Training Program by Licensed Professionals Call for Information 289-5080 
Connecting with our community 
n 
through lire 
Neighborhood 
Roots Program 

Join us for an interactive introduction to the city so you can learn the immense value of our local community on 
SEPTEMBER 25, 1999 
Tickets sold for $3 in the dining halls on Tuesday (9/21) and Thursday (9/23) 
First Year Students only 

Limited to first 60 sign-ups! Call the CSC at 1-5393 for more info 
sions," Joseph said. dent of her school's chapter of Pace and Joseph, both Holy National Honor Society and 
Got

Cross Hall residents from captain of her tennis team. Youngstown, Ohio. said their Joseph was student council involvements in high school secretary at her school for 
News?
pepared them for their new four years, secretary of positions. National Honor Society and a Pace was student council youth leadership member. 
631-5323
president for two years, presi-
Attention All Engineers: Your Best Opportunity Of The Millennium To Start Planning For Your Future Is Here! 




INDUSTRY DAY 
1999 

RECEPTION AND BANQUET  CAREER FAIR  
September 21, 6:30 PM  September 22, 10 AM  -4 PM  
Monogram Room in tire JA CC  Fitzpatrick Hall ofEngineering  

Representatives from over 60 companies will be here to answer your questions and to discuss your opportunities for permanent employment and summer internships. 
Don't miss this excellent opportunity to make your job search easier. Participate in Industry Day 1999! 

Companies who will be attending: Abbott Laboratories • Arthur Andersen LLP • Air Products and Chemicals Inc. • American Management Systems • Andersen Consulting • AT&T • Bayer Corporation • C-bridge Internet Solutions, Inc. • Caterpillar Inc. • Chicago Transit Authority • Chicago Board of Trade • Clant) Consulting • Colkgehire.com • Compaq • CSC • Crowe, Chizek, & Company LLP • Daimler Chrysler • Deloittt Consulting • Delphi Automotive Systems • Discover Financial Services • Eaton Corp.• EDS• Ernst & Young• Fermi National Accelerator Lab• Ford• General Electric 
• 
1-larza Engineering •. [ lewlett-Packard • Illinois Department of Transportation • International Paper • IBM • KW1 Salmon Associates • Lockheed Martin Corporation • Lord Corporation • Logikos • Lucent Corporation • Merck Co, Inc. • Meritor Automotive • Microsoft Corporation • Motorola• National Starch and Chemical Company· Norfolk Southern Corporation· PcopleSofl 

• 
Proctor & Gamble • Radian International • Raytheon Systems Company • Rohm and Ilaas Company• Scitor Corporation • Schneider Corporation • Sprint· State Fann Insurance • Sunoco 

• 
Summit Group/CIBER Enterprise Application Solutions• Technology Services Group· Tellabs 

• 
Texas Instruments • Turner Construction Company • United States Air Force • US Marine Corps• Waterstone Consulting• Xerox• Yazaki Norlh America, Inc 


Sponsored by the Joint Engineering Council and the Society of Women Engineers 
Check out more about the Sacrament of 

Cottfirn1atiott 

.I 
Arc l-f O« .!-. b.!-.ptizetl Catholic who Ht!-.S tt~cr bcett Cottfinttctl? . 

.,,• 
Arc l-jOU wott'tlcritt5 wl1cthcr l-jOU ttcctl to be COttfitmctl to set marricb itt the Catholic Cl1«rch? 
·.; 

W o«lt, l-jO« like to prepare for Co11finttati0tt with other Notre Dame stubrnts who .!-.re bcbicatctl to 5rowitt5 itt their f.!-.ith? 
For more information about the Confirmation program, come to our first meeting at: 
Sicsfricb d1apd on TMcsba\1. Sept. 21st at 7:00 pm 
Please contact Fr, John Conley, CSC or Clare Sullivan at 631-3389 or stop by the Badin Campus Ministry office with any questions. 

I¦
(DMPU) 
MINISTR> 







orl 
I m 
' 

Tuesday, Sepcember 21, 1999 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
---·--========================-.:::::.=======================-==================================================-~~:~~~~~~~~~~~­
AFP Photo Residents of Taipei survey the wreckage of the 12 story Sungshan Hotel that collapsed during Monday's earthquake. The quake measured 7.6 on the Richter scale and caused widespread damage throughout the capital city. 
Pre-dawn earthquake kills 637 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 

Trial against Scientologists begins in France 
MAHSl•:ILI.E 
Tlw 1:onlrnv<•rsial lri,li of' sev<'II nwmlwrs of tlu• C:hurrli or Sci1·11tology b1:ga11 Monday in suullwrn Fra111·p, bul was immPdiatdy boggnd down lly a srandal ovnr missing Pvid(1nrn. Tlw IH•atl of tlw Scinnlologists' international wing laslwd out in a st.atPm1•11t, saying tw would complain lo human rights organizations that Fran!:1• was throawning llw right of nwmbfirs or minority rnligions to a fair trial. The sPven Srinnlologisls arl~ cltargod with l"raud in a cus!' dating back to 1990 that has l'ocusnd al!Pntion 011 thn group. which is trying to win rerngnilion as n legitimate rdigion in Europe. Tlw SdP11tologists' d!if'pnsf' demanded Monday that L111· lrial lw postponed hel:aus1~ of llie ''drt•adf'lil f'.limatn" l:rpatnd after documPnts rPlating to tlw ntsP disappParPd from the 11.larsnill!• court. 
Islamic head scarf sparks controversy in Turkey 
ANK/\HA 
/\ lawmakPr who raust'd a stir by wearing an Islamic lwad scarf to Parliament lost an apfH!al Monday ol' the government's docision to strip her of Turkish citiz(mship. The gov­ernnwnl maintains that lawmaker Mervc Kavakci lmcame a U.S. citizen on March 5 without getting permission from Turkey, as rnquired by law. She was elected to Parliamnnl a month later, then stripped of her Turkish citizenship in May after the head scarf controversy. In upholding the govern­ment's decision, the appeals court rejected Kavakci's contention that other Turks obtained f"ornign citizenship without permis­sion. Prnvious "bad procedures cannot be an example," it said, according to the Anatolia news agency. Kavakci is expected to lose her seat in Parliament as a result of the decision. 
South Africa charges 115 spies with murder 
CAPE TOWN 
A total of 115 spies and other intelligence agency workers have been charged with mur­der, smuggling or other oITenses since 1995, an official told Parliament on Monday. Hecent investigations included two cases of platinum smuggling and two cases of illegal dealing in gold, said Intelligence Minister Joe Nhlanhla. Nhlanhla was responding to a question from the opposition Democratic Party about the two agencies under his control -the National Intelligence Agency, which works at home, and the South African Secret Service, its for­eign arm. Two agents were found guilty of murder and 10 had been charged with mur­der or attempted murder in the past five years, Nhlanhla said in a statement. 
likbiWWit•@Ml1fJI
Dow AMEx: 
792.85 
]ONES ·1·59 
Nasdaq:
+20.27 
lJ 
2886. I 5 • 16.53 
NYSI-: 

612.10 -LOO 

S&P 500: Co11111osite 1335.53 
Volume:
10,823.90 

861,900,000
+0.11 


VOLUME LEADERS 

C:PMPUO: TlC:lSU \ CU-NAE I CBMQI rara 
NICIWBOFT CORP MBrT •l .1.6 +1.12.:is 97. 56 MLt, ONJ!O'l'Jr~ Dllt.L . 0.01 +D. 0050 '6.88 >.DUCA ONLJNS AOL -), 71 -.S.1900 92 .st SU'lf H'IROSll"STEMS StlNW ,t(i.fl i-5'. 61::il.S 9'.Sf creco !YS'l'CKS CSC'O -0. ,, -0. ,100 73.U OJU.CLI: COltP OftCL .. 3,5,9 +1. 5575 15.12 MC I WORLOCOtl lN WCOM +3.ll +l. 6250 81..50 IV'l'RL L'OJII' IN'l"C -o .,, -0. 5650 8•. 06 JUUOHT/Tlll~ tUTS . 12.1)6 1'3.2500 30.:u t>JlUCKASURO.CQM l'PiO +56.H +13.6300 39.J& 
TAIWAN 



CUBA 


American gets 30 years for smuggling 
Television showed doc­tors treating victims wrapped in bandages or quilts as they were rushed to hospitals. 
Four-story residential buildings in Taichung had collapsed. Water poured from ruptured mains and distraught residents squat­ted with their heads in their hands as rescuers helped apparently unhurt survivors from the buildings. 
President Lee Teng-hui flew by helicopter to Taichung to direct rescue work while Vice President Lien Chan went to Nantou. 
The Interior Ministry's disaster management cen­ter reported 637 people 
piloting at a high rate of speed in tumultuous seas off 'the coast of Mariel flipped over, and a 45-year­old attorney aboard was drowned. 
Aboard the boat were 14 people, including five chil­dren. Authorities say the vessel was only strong enough to carry six to eight people. 
Court documents paint a dramatic picture of the trip and the men's reasons for undertaking it. 
The boat set sail jn the middle of an electrical storm, amid choppy waves, killed and some 3,000 injured. Many people were believed still trapped in the rubble. 
In Taipei. the island nation's capital, the quake wrecked the 78-room Sungshan Hotel, collapsing the bottom stories and set­ting the badly damaged top listing to one side. 
Fire crews turned hoses on the wreckage as smoke poured from fires raging in several destroyed rooms. Sixty people were still feared trapped in the build­ing, with 49 people already evacuated and sent to the hospital and another 11 people evacuated unin­jured. 
frightening the passengers. Some asked that the boat return to land, "but their pleas were not attended." according to documents from the Popular Provincial Tribunal of I Iavana. 
The boat sped up when Dorta Garcia, the captain of the crafl, noticed the Cuban Coast Guard was nearby. The craft flipped over, toss­ing everyone into the waves. 
The three men later arrested in the case joined Cuban guardsmen in rescu­ing passengers from the rough seas. 
As.ociatcd Press 
TAIPEI 

Taiwan's strongest quake in decades jolted the island early Tuesday. killing at least 637 people, wrecking a 12-story hotel in Taipei and destroying hundreds of homes islandwide, the gov­ernment said. Nearly 3,000 people were injured. 
The quake had a prelimi­nary magnitude of 7 .6 and was centered 90 miles south-southwest of Taipei, the U.S. Geological Survey's National Earthquake Information Center said. It also issued warnings of pos­sible tsunamis, or huge waves that sometimes fol­low earthquakes. 
The temblor was about the same strength as the devastating one that struck Turkey on Aug. 17, killing more than 15,000 people. 
Most of the victims were found in Taichung and nearby Nantou, located near the epicenter. Several roads were buckled and traffic was disrupted, isolat­ing many remote towns. 
Hospitals in towns and cities in central Taiwan were packed with injured people, and television sta­tions urged doctors, nurses and others with medical training to join in the res­cue work. 
Associated Press 
HJ\VANA 

A Cuban-born U.S. resi­dent was sentenced to life imprisonment for alien smuggling and a second got 30 years aftPr a trial that showed the dangers some Cuban immigrants will risk to improve their work situa­tion or be with their fami­lies. 
The sentence, handed down on Friday, was not made public until court doc­uments in the case were made available to journal­ists on Monday. 
Joel Dorta Garcia, 27, a resident of Key West, Fla., became the firsl person to be sentenced to life for alien smuggling under a new toughening of Cuba's penal code. 
David Garcia Capote, 32, who emigrated illegally to Miami earlier this year, was senlenced to 30 years. Pedro Cordova, an unem­ployed 29-year-old living in Mariel, outside Havana, got 15 years. 
The men were arrested on July 3 after the 32-foot outboard boat they were 
-

page 6 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Tucsday, September 21, 1999 
---~ ---­

Buchanan downplays Nazi threat to U.S. 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
Pat Buchanan, pondering a move to the Reform Party as a presidential candidate, has again raised controversy by maintaining that Nazi Germany presented "no physi­cal threat to the United States of America" after 1940. 
Developer Donald Trump, also pondering a bid for the Reform nomination, criticized Buchanan Sunday for primary reasons for the Allied entry into the war -a French and British promise to save Poland from Nazi destruction -was not realistic. 

"I don't know how the West could have saved Poland when il was wedged Letweeu Stalin and Hitler," Buchanan said in an interview today. "~o Allied guarantee could have saved Poland and none did. 
"By 1939, it was virtually impossible to save Poland but the democracies of Western Europe and the Jewish 
population

"/ implore people, please 
statements in or Western 

his book read the book and 
Europeabout thf" do not rely on might have
United States b e e n

misrepresentations and 
and the war. 
saved."

"Buchanan falsehoods about it." 
Buchanan
denigrates the 
said the memory of 

Pat Buchanan United 
t h O S C 
States was


potential Reform party
Americans 
right to fight

who gave presidential candidate 
their lives in the Second World War in the effort to stop Hiller," Trump said in the statement. "I am proud of the role that the United States played in d(,fnating the Third Reich." 
Buchanan was asked on the CBS Show "Face The Nation" Sundav about statements in his ne~' foreign policy book, "A Ifopub!ic !\int An Empire," about Hitler's intentions in World War II and his ability to directlv thrnaten the United States {vith attack. 
Buchanan said in the book_ that the United Statns was not under a direct threat from Nazi Germany following the Battle of Britain in 1940. 
"After the (British) Royal Air Force won the Battle of Britain. the German invasion threat was history," Buchanan wrote. 
Buchanan said one of the 

Making a difference has always been a matter of applying yourself. Here's wh~:re to apply. 
World War II after Germany declared war. 
"Of course, we should have fought because Germany declarnd war," Buchanan said, adding that the guarantee of Polish safety given by France and Great Britain helped lead to the destruction of' much of Western Europe and to the Jews of Western Europe. 
Buchanan said that people need to read the book for themselves beforr. creating an opinion based on what they have beard. 
"I implore people, please read the book and do not rely on misrPpresentations and falsP.hoods about it," Im said. 
"Mr. Trump's views reflect an almost paralyzing igno­rance of the history of World War II." Bucha~an said. "Hitler declared war on the United States, we did not declare war on him." 

Cruise ship fire strands 1,700 
Associated Press 
TAMPA 
A cruise ship left adrift not far from Tropical Storm Harvey got one engine started Monday and headed further out into the Gulf of Mexico to escape the strengthening storm. 
Seas around Carnival Cruise Line's Tropicale swelled up to 12 feet as the vessel, carrying 1,700 passengers and crew, moved away from the storm's projected path. 
"Basically we are going to do a big loop in the Gulf and turn around, with a very safe dis­tance between us and Harvey, and follow tho storm back in to Tampa," said Carnival spokesman Tim Gallagher said. 
Gallagher said the Tropicale will rendezvous with a tug boat Tuesday, and the tug will escort the ship into port in case the engine fails again. 
Harvey, which was about 180 miles west-southwest of St. Petersburg late Monday after­noon, was expected to makP. landfall in the Tampa Hay area midday Tuesday. Coast Guard officials planned to close the Port of Tampa Monday night. 
The Tropicale had been scheduled to return to Tampa on Monday morning after a four-day cruise through Key West and Cozumel, Mexico. But both the 670-foot vessel's engines were damaged in a fire that broke out in the engine room Sunday night, leaving it adrift about 100 miles south­west of Tampa, Gallagher said. 
Crews managnd t.o restart the starboard motor Monday after­noon. Originally, a tug boat was expected to meet up with tlrn ship and tow it to Key West. 
"If they were under their own power they could break through thcsP. waves with no problem. otherwise they arr. at. the mercy of the seas," Coast Guard spokesman Jeff Murphy said. "They could be rocking and rolling a bit with each swell." 
The cruise ship was carrying 1,096 passrmgcrs and 605 crew members, still had air condi­tioning, working toilets and electricity for guest rooms. 
As of Monday evening, Harvey was moving at about 7 mph with tropical storm force winds of at least :i9 mph. 


Uranium workers detail safety flaws 
Associate<\ Press 
PADUCAH, Ky. 

Workers at a federal urani­um processing plant wiped "green salt" off lunch tables, finding out later that the sub­stance was actually a radioac­tive byproduct, current and former employees testified at a hearing Monday. 
"Time after time, we were put at risk, lied to and made to feel that we were safe," Phillip Foley, a 24-year worker at the Paducah Gaseous Diffusion Plant, told a subcommittee of the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Hesources. 
Foley testified during the first of several planned con­gressional hearings into the operation of the plant. 
For years, employees have 
complained about an increased number of cancers they believe are linked to radiation expo­sure while working with immi­um they did not know was laced with plutonium. The exposure occurred over more than two decades beginning in the 1950s. 
The Department ol' Energy owns the plant, which uses a process called gaseous diffu­sion to enrich uranium for use as fuel in nuclear rr.actors. The agency is investigating why the workers-were exposnd and whether contractors who oper­ated the plant covered it up. 
Foley said when he first started working at the plant as a laborer, he would disposfi of contaminated barrels by toss­ing them into ponds that are scattered thro·ughout the 3,600-acre plant site. 
He also testified that retirnes often told him of wiping "gre1\n salt" off the lunch tables in two buildings. The substance actu­ally was depleted uranium hexafluoride, a radioactive byproduct of the enrichment process. 
"I think probably the most overpowering fepling my l'nllow workers and retirees sham is uncertainty and apprPhnnsion about how thny might be affected by chemical and radi­ation exposurns at tlw plant," said Foley. "I hear stories and fears about evnrything from cataracts to cancnrs to !wart disease and emphysnma." 
Chris Naas, a 25-year employee, said he lrnlieves the plant has been a saf'e work place for six or sevnn ynars. Prior to that. however, is a dif­ferent story. 









r-----~----------------------------·-~---­
Tuesday, September 21, 1999 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
TAIWAN 

Nationalists debate candidate's eligibility 
Associated Press 
TAIPEI 
A popular candidate in Taiwan's presidential race should be kicked oul of' the rul­ing Nationalist Party because he dnfind the lr,adership and viciously attacked olher Nationalists, a party -!Hader said Monday. 
The Nationalists' powerful disciplinary committee plans to announce Tuesday whether rnavcirick candidate James Soong should b,i ousted, a move that could split the party's sup­port before the March vote to replace President Lee Tcng-hui. 
The panel's ruling was expected to be consid1>.red Wednesday by U1e party's main decision-making Central Standing Committee. 
Soong, the front-runner according to most polls, defied the party in July when he decid­ml to challenge the Nationalist candidate. Vice President Lien Chan, who is in third place behind the candidate from the opposition Democratic Progressive Party, former Taipei Mayor Chen Shui-bian, according to polls. 

On Monday, Chien Wei-chang, head of the disciplinary com­mittee, told reporters that the party has already built a case against Soong that would justify his ouster. "Sooner or later a clear line has to be drawn between Soong and the party," Chien said. 
Soong did not speak to reporters Monday, but in the past he has pointed to his popu­larity, saying that voters want him to run and he must serve the people. 
Soong was Taiwan's provin­cial governor until the position was phased out last year in a government downsizing. In his old job, Soong enjoyed a repu­tation for being a hands-on politician who toured the coun­tryside and usually kept his promises. 
Even though Soong has angered party leaders, they thus far have held off on sanc­tioning him, possibly fearing it would make Soong a martyr. 
INDONESIA 

U.S. troops arrive in East Timor 
Associated Press 
DILi 
An advance team of U.S. Marines entered East Timor today with the first wave of international peacekeepers, scoping out the territory before a larger American contingent moves in. 
General John Castellaw, com­mander of the U.S. contingent in the force, led a team of six Marines on a reconnaissance mission into the territory, while other peacekeepers secured the key locations of the capital's air­port and harbor. 
"We're getting the lay of the land," Castellaw told The Associaied Press in Dili, East Timor's capital. 
The United States is contribut­ing up to 200 troops to the U.N.­approved peacekeeping force, which is expected to eventually number 7,500 troops. The force is charged with imposing order in East Timor after weeks of bloodshed and paving the way for the territory's independence from Indonesia. 
The United States is providing logistics an<l communications support to the Australian-led 
force, but no combat troops. military operations, including 
"Our footprint will remain Operation Provide Comfort in small -communications and northern Iraq after the 1991 intelligence," said Castellaw, Gulf War -said the troops that who is deputy commander of arrived today received no resis­
the  3rd  tance and were  
Marine  helped by th!>.  
Expeditionary Force in Okinawa. Japan.  "At this stage it's not time for the logistics and communications that we  Indonesian mil­it~~y i~ !)iii. fh1s was an arrival, not an  
Castellaw  will offer. when the time  assault,"  he  
said his advance team would not stay  comes, we will phase in our presence. "  said. "The environment was conducive  
in East Timor  to  moving  
today, but would return  General John Castellaw Marine commander  troops in." Castellaw  

instead to the northern Australian city or Darwin, the staging post for the internation­al force in East Timor 
CINTERFEJ. 
It may be days or weeks before U.S. personnel are put in place in Dili. 
"At this stage it's not time for the logistics and communica­tions that we will offer [to INTERFEJ, when the time comes we will phase in our presence," he said. 
Castellaw -who has been involved in other humanitarian said he and his 
men were working well with the interna­tional force. 
"We have worked and exer­cised with the Australians before and we are glad to be here in support of this opera­tion," he said. 
On Australia's northern coast, a transport plane brought a U.S. Navy team and vital satellite communications equipment. 
"It's small and it's quick to get out in any location," said Chief Warrant Officer Scott Griffin of the U.S. Navy. 


Microsoft· 
www.microsoft.com/college 

Interested in writing for The Observer? Call 1-5323 


page 8 

The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, September 21, 1999 

University of Notre Dame 
Presentation Tuesday, September 21st, 5:30pm 

CREDIT FIRST University Club, Stadium Room · 
BOSTON 
www.csfb. com
SUISSE 


. 

~---~·· ......... 
page 9 

Tuesday, September 21, 1999 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 
Supremacist faces death penalty 
Associated Pre"" 
A second white supremacist was convicted Monday in the dragging death of a black man whose gruesome end shocked tho nation. 
Lawrence Russell Brewer, '.~2. 
could got the death penalty for 
murdering James Byrd in the 
town of Jasp,~r last year. 
Tlw jury of 11 whitns aud one 
l!ispanic took just four hours to 
reach a verdict. Standing with­
his lawyers, Brt1wer showed no 
rnaction. Tile judge had 
admonished spectators against 
any show of emotion. There 
was none. 
The jury returned immediate­
ly to begin hearing testimony 
nn whether Brewer should be 
s1)ntenced to lifo in prison or 
dnath. 
T,istimony in the punishmmit 
phas,i was set to continue 
Tunsday and Jasper County 
District Attllrney Cuy Jamos 
Cray said he did not anticipate 
the case returning to Lhc jury 
until Wednesday. 
"Whatever they come up with 
wn will accept that, of course," ,Mary Verrett. Byrd's sister. said allnr emerging from the court­house. "I want to see the ulti­

"f don't Like the death 
penalty, but that's what 
he deserves. The just 
•punishment for 
these facts and this case is death." 
Guy James Gray Jasper County District Attorney 
mate penall.y ... I can't begin to describe how good we feet.:' 
Brewer's former prison buddy John William King. 24, has been on death row since his February conviction in Byrd's slaying. A third man, Shawn Allen Berry, also 24, is awaiting trial next month. 
Prosecutors said thfly heliflve the three men killed Byrd to promote their l1edgling white supromacist organization -the Confederate Knights of America -and initiatA Herry into the­group. 
The slaying was one of the grisliest racial crimes since the civil rights era. 
.. I don't like the death penalty but that's what he deserves. The just punishment for this case and these facts and cir­cumstances is death," Gray said 
after the verdict was announced. Brewer's attorneys had no comment. 
Unlike the first trial, the case against Brewer was moved out of Jasper, 150 miles away, after the defense argued that the people of Jasper would be inclined to convict to redeem theirsmall town in the eyes of the nation. 
Brewer. sometimes sobbing, testified last week that he was with King and Berry when Flyrd, 49, was chained by the ankles to the bumper of Berry's pickup and dragged for three miles along a rutted Jogging road and a bumpy asphalt route. 
According to Brewer, he climbed inside the truck cab, smoked a cigarette and didn't realize Berry had chained Byrd to thA back of the truck until they began driving. Brewer said he was convinced Byrd had died when Berry slashed his throat with a knife. 
But a pathologist testified there was no evidence of a knife wound and no knife was found. Hyrd was alive until his head was torn off when it slammed into a culvert, the pathologist said. 
Clinton tours N.C. hurricane disasters 
Associated Press 
Standing at a flooded street, President Clinton expressed amazement today at the dev­astation from Hurricane Floyd 
a n d promised "we're going to be with you every step of the way" i 11 

re build-Clinton ing dam-a g e d homes and businesses. 
"The American people know that no individual can handle this alone." the president said, announcing a package of emergency federal assistance programs. "You all need to take advantage of these things," he urged residents. 
Clinton visited flood-stricken families taking refuge in an emergency shelter run by the Salvation Army and Hod Cross. He said the extent of the flood­ing was "something you would anticipate less than once every 500 years." 
Expressing surprise at the damage, Clinton said, "No matter how much television there is, it doesn't do it jus­tice. You can't show what it feels like inside for people" who have lost homes and businesses or for farmers whose fields have been flood­ed and whose livestock were destroyed. 
"When things like this hap­pen to some of us," the presi­dent said, "we know they could happen to all of us.... We know we have a responsi­bility as members of the American family to help you get back on your feet again. 
"And we intend to do it," he said. · 
North Carolina Gov. James Hunt implored Clinton to "tell the nation about this" -about the tens of thousands of people who have lost homes. the fac­tories and jobs that have been flooded away. 'Tm asking that everybody in America help eastern North Carolina," the governor said. "We need a lot more money than everything that is headed our way." 


Where it matters most. 

As one of the world's leading diversified technology companies, we're breaking new ground in everything from defense and commercial electronics, to aviation, to engineering and construction. As a Raytheon employee, you'll contribute to the development of exciting, revolutionary technology designed to make life better, easier, and safer throughout the world. Such as our STARS air traffic control system. And our award-winning Night5ight™ technology. 
But it all starts with you. Your creativity. Your knowledge. And enthusiasm about the future. In return., ~ offer exceptional training and professional development opportunities. A supportive, down-to-earth work environment. And incredible benefits including flexible schedules designed to respect your qualify of life 
So you can srill shaw off all tnose grl'at qualities ofyours outside of wor/::, roa. 
We have a lot to tell you about Raytheon and the exciting opportunities we have available. Plan on visiting our booth at your college career fair. If you are unable to attend the fair, please e-mail your resume to: resume@rayjobs.com (ASCII text only; no attachment,), or mail to: Raytheon Company, Attn: National Staffing Data Center, P.O. Box 660246, MS-201, Dallas, TX 75266. U.S. citizenship may be required. We are an equal opportunity employer. 
Opportunities are available for exceptional ,tudents with the following majors: 
• Aeronautical Engineering • Computer Science • Management 
• 
Chemical Engineering • Electrical Engineering • Marketing/Communications 

• 
Civil Engineering and • Finance/Accounting • Math Construction Management • Human Resources • Mechanical Engineering 

• 
Computer Engineering • Industrial and Labor Relations • Physics 


Check out our Website at www.rayjobs.com/campus for further information including a calendar of rei:ruiting events At Raytheon, we strive to be the employer of choice for a diverse workforce by attracting, retaining, and recognizing the most talented, resourceful and creative people.

J,.;, 
~>'~'ii. 
.,. ~ ''.,1~· 


Bringing technology to the edge 
Raytheon 

ICheck out The Observer <:-nline at OBSERVER.ND.EDU I 

... '.' 

VIEWPOINT 
page 10 
. THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dome, IN ~6556 014 Sourh Oimng Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHI.EF Miehe.lie Krupa 
MANAGING EDITOR  BllSINFSS MI\NAGER  
M. Shannon Ryan  David Rogcro  
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR  
Laura Petelle  

NFWS EDITOR: Tim Logan V1LWl'01Nr EDITOR: Colleen Gaughen SPORTS EDITOR: llrian Kessler 
SCENE EDITOR: Michael Vanegas SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Dalum 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Bryan Lutz 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Brtt Iiuelar SYSTEMS ADMINISTRA.TOR: Michael Revers WEB ADMINISTRATOR; Erik Kushro 
CONTROLLER: Timothy Lane GRAPIIICS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 
CONTACT Us 
OFFIC!i MANAC&R/GENERAL INFO.............63 l-7471 FAX ............................................................ 631-6927. ADVERTISING .....................................631-6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF.. ......................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORiAssT. ME. ..................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE.......................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 observer.obsoews. l@nd.edu 
V!EWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. !@ttd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.spores. I@nd.edu 
SCENE................ .. ........................... 631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAJNT MARv's...... ........................... 631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 
SYSTEMS/WEB AnMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire at hrtp:!!observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as carroons, reviews and breaking news from the Associared Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-m-the 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rares of print ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
to meet the edirors and 
articles published after 
staff
August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is che independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. Acting as pub­lisher ofThe Observer, the administration ofthe Uttiversity of~otre Dame du Lac prohibits the adver· tisemenr ofalcohol and The Observer's acceptance of advertisements from specified types ofgroups. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Mattaging Edimr and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns presenr the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Questions regarding Obsen,er policies shoul.d be direct­rd to Editor in ChiefMichelle Krupa. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

If a pro-lifer wants to make headlines these days, he could bomb an abortion clinic. It's not a course of action I would recommend. to put it mildly. but the sad reality is that it happens, and it under­mines the cause. 
America's obses­Laura 
sion with President 
Antkowiak
Clinton's sexual 
exploits affirmed 
our fascination with 

Right to !ife
seeing people in high places brought crashing down. In the following months, Congress treated the public to a collective cackle when several prominent conservatives also toppled from their righteous pedestals, forced to confess their own extramarital affairs after condemning the president. Likewise. people who falsely claim to be pro-life in attacking abortion clinics could not have given abortion advocates a more effective cause to rally around: protecting women from "right wing extremists." 
But we get sick of the harshness of the abortion rhetoric, just as we tire of hear­ing the same stories about Clinton and Monica day after day. We know the slo­gans and we knov.: the players, and cer­tainly, we all have our own stereotypes that we attach to people on both sides of the debate. I won't repeat them. 
I want to talk instead about women who are pro-life to their very core, who truly practice what they preach, but without so much of the preaching. A refreshing change, you say'? These women will probably never reach news­paper headlines aside from the one that I am creating here, but that matters little to them. In fact, I think they prefer it that way. As a rapidly growing but rarely acknowledged part of the pro-life move­ment, counsetors and volunteers at thou­sands of crisis pregnancy centers across the nation quietly serve pregnant women in their time of need. 
We have one such center here in South Bend -a whole network of them actual­ly -called the Women's Care Center. Founded by Notre Dame professor Janet Smith in 1983, the Women's Care Center now offers a variety of services at eight offices in South Bend, Mishawaka, Elkhart, Plymouth and Bremen. One of these offices is on Ironwood CirclA, with­in walking distance of campus. 
The Women's Care Center does not show pictures of aborted babies. The Women's Care Center does not evange­lize. The center keeps politics outside its doors and asks that its volunteers and counselors not participate in demonstra­tions outside the local abortion clinic or interact with sidewalk counselors. Sometimes women enter, mistaking the care center for the nearby abortion facil­ities. Contrary to what prominent abor­tion organizations may have you believe, counselors at the Women's Care Center do not resort to trickery, and they do not plead and threaten and tug at a woman's v.Tist to keep her from leaving. 
The Women's Care Center does offer material and emotional support to the people who sometimes get ignored in the whole abortion debate -mothers. "Our mission is simple," states the Women's Care Center. '"We offer loving support to women facing problem pregnancies. We'll calm your fears and answer your questions. If you arc pregnant, we'll help you find the support you need. We offer encouragement and hope when you most need it. You don't need to go it alone." 
The Women's Care Center can connect women to housing, food, medical assis­tance, baby clothes and equipment, par­enting classes, support groups and many other forms of care. The center is a shoulder to cry on, a hand to hold, and its doors are always open for long-term counseling. Its work reflects the philoso­phy held by many crisis pregnancy cen­ters: that the best thing a pro-lifer can do for a woman is to be there for her, to lis­ten to her, to affirm her dignity, to replace judgement with compassion, to find out what her needs are and to try to meet them. 
J have met few people who display the same genuine compassion and love that ! see within the staff of the Women's Care Center. They welcome women of all races, ages and nationalities, women who have had abortions, women consid­ering abortion, women who would never dream of abortion but just need extra financial or emotional help. For many women, this kind of care makes all the difference in helping them find the 


SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 

E r::===========:. r:::==::===:::::::--:_-:::_-:_-:_=.-:_::_::_::_::_-, 

$TA'( \-\ERE 
WHILE I 
GET M'( 
HAP...POON, 
Tuesday, Septern ber 21, 1999 
strength to give lifo to their babies, sometimes in the face of pressure from parents, boyfriends, peers or employers. Many women do not want to undergo abortion but feel it is the only way to escape from a desperate situation. The Women's Care Center offors another life-, affirming way which promotes the digni­ty of the mother as well as her baby. 
I have been at the Women's Care Center as a volunteer on a couple of occasions when young mothers have left our doors still desperate and still plan­ning to abort their tiny children. Letting the first one go out the door was one of the hardest things I have done, and I still feel a burden upon my shoulders to this day. But we do what we can in those sit­uations. Wfl gently remind her that we are here if she changes her mind or ever needs us again. We tell her that if she needs to talk to someone after the abor­tion, we are here for her as well. And then all we can do is pray that the woman will change her mind and that somewhere she will find the help she needs. 
If you or anyone you know might be pregnant, the Women's Care Center offers free, confidential pregnancy tests -and so much more. Their number can be found in the back of the Notre Dame phone book and also on fliers soon to be posted by Right to Life dorm reps. But their presence does not excuse the rest of us -roommates, classmates, girl­friends and boyfriends -from showing the same compassion on campus. -The abortion debate churns on, and women face pregnancy alone every day. Political action has its place, and prayer does too, but being pro-life means more than making headlines for being anti­abortion. It involves a quiet compassion that, to a woman in need, speaks much louder than we would ever believe. 
Laura Antkowiak is a senior 1/esburgh program and government major from Lewis Hall and co-president ofNIJ Right to Life. She will swear up and down lhal yes, pro-lifers do care about women. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Work expands so as to fill the time available for its completion." 
C. Northcote Parkinson 


VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

Tuc:sday, September 21, 1999 BSERVER page 11 
Examine the value of ND clothing in your closet 
Somnwlrnre in thn moral grey area between the ethos of capitalism and the Catholic sense of duty and charily lies tho issue of sweatshop labor used in the manufaclUrin){ of olftcially licensed Notre Dame appar­el. The tenn "sw<'atshop" means that workers thmein am typically subjuct Ln grueling, u1mistrict1-1d working hours, paltry 
Joseph Rumbo 
wages. human rights abuses and 

am dmiied thH right to organize for the purposes of forming collective Progressive bargaining units to improve these Student conditions, Although the phenome­
Alliance 

non has bt!tm documented to exist in the United Stat,~s i11 isolated cases involving rncfmt immigrants working for sub­stantially less than minimum-wage laws allow, sweat­shops ani usually found in developing third-world nations where lllrnmployment. is relatively high (yet stablel and whern political conditions l'avor the rights of global capital over those of workers. 
Th(1 rnainwnance or a global reserve labor force in various countries throughout the world means that multinational manul"acturnrs can shift production from country to country based on which one offers a more favorable regulatory and political environment. More favorahl,~. that is. for the dehumanizing exploitation of indigenous workers, especially in manufacturing, wlrnrn wages arc often cents on the dollar when com­parml to the U.S. Theso pC'oplH are subject to danger­ous working conditions while working for a wage that l'rnquently docs not even meet their basic subsistence rwnds for food, water, clothing, education. healthcare. childr.arc and transportation. To make matters worse, women in these factories are subject to discrimination, sexual harassment and even forced pregnancy termi­nation in ordnr to keep thorn on the job instead of per­forming the job of rnaring children. One documented report not1-1d a box of used condoms outside of a facto­ry, suggesting that human rights abuses in this case extend to sexual abuse as well. 
While seemingly far removed from the pastoral, majestic, well-manicured pathways of" the ND campus, the issw~ of sweatshops comes home to South Bend. Consider that some ND apparel is made by workers t()iling away for a mere pittance in places like El Salvador and Indonesia. Such brutally repressive mili­tary regimes create, through their complete annihila­tion of worker"s rights. a perfect business climate for ruthless global manufacturing profiteers. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Help end strife· in East Timor 
The United Stales is portrayed in the media as merely an innocent bystander in the recent elec­tions in East Timor, in which close to 80 ,percent of the people voted for independence from Indonesia. This portrayal is not accurate. 
President Ford and Secretary of State Henry Kissinger were in Jakarta the day before the Indonesian invasion of East Timor, Dec. 7, 1975, and gave the green light for the invasion. U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, Daniel Patrick ~oynihan. blocked the implementation of all U .N. resolutions against the invasion. U.S. military aid and training of Indonesian soldiers increased fol­lowing the invasion. The fighter jets and heli­copter gunships, which bombed and strafed East Timorese 11eeing to the mountains, came from the United States. The United States has trained the Indonesian special forces, the Knpassus, in counterinsurgency techniques. 
!\t the height of' the atrocities in 1978, when an estimated 200,000 East Timorese had been killed out of a total population of f,00,000, coverage of this genocide by U.S. media droppt1d to zero. This fact is from a study by a noted MIT professor and political activist Noam Chumsky. Now, more than 20 years later. when Indonesian death squads are again rampaging through East Timor, anoth­er media whitewash or thP U.S. rolo is in progress. 
!\II that would be required to end these terrible atrocities in East Timor would be a stern lecture by the paymaster. the United States, The IMF certainly got it's austerity program implemented in Indonesia. Call your representatives and President Clinton! 
Gary Sudborough 
Bellflower, Calif. September 20, 1999 
We at the Progressive Student Alliance (PSA) have taken issue with the University's policy of monitoring human rights abuses through the auspices of the cor­porate-controlled Fair Labor Association.(FLA). Like many "blue ribbon" panels, the FIA is too far removed geographically and economically from the daily toil of indigenous workers to be genuinely concerned about their deplorable working conditions and wages. While 
purporting to look into the matter, the FLA has consis­tenlly acted to hinder the actual identification of facili­ty locations where the alleged abuses arc taking place, promoting secrecy and even letting corporate inter­Psts (who proflt from swPatshops) decide what constitutes a sweatshop. There is clearly a conflict of interest here that extends throughout institutions of higher learning in this country. There is also a deeper moral conflict between the humanistic imperative of Catholic social concern and the indiscriminate profiteering of global private enterprise. Appealing to this sense of moral duty. the PSA is calling for the public disclosure of ALL manufacturing facilities, timely reports of human rights violations, a living wage, overtime compensation, the rights of these workers to bargain collectively and freedom from sexual harassment and discrimination. Along these lines, some schools, including Wisconsin-Madison, Georgetown, Princeton, Brown, Boston College, Duke, Illinois and Michigan, are taking a public stance against sweatshop labor by committing to full public disclosure of the manufacturing facilities used to make their school apparel. 
You may ask, "What does this have to do with me?" The widespread consumption of ND apparel by stu­dents, faculty and fans alike means that it probably has EVERYTHING to do with you. Look in your own closet. Estimate the dollar value of your ND apparel collection. It's not a stretch to imagine that many stu­dents here (particularly undergraduates) have their ND gear marked Monday through Sunday in an attempt to allocate their vast wardrobe of sweatshop manufactured goods according to the day of the week! Each person affiliated with the University owes it to their own conscience to look within and consider the moral implications of this issue. Many are ND born and 
'Punt Davie' is untrue to ND 
Sophomore Ryan Moodie's letter titled "Punt Davie!" sickens me. To Ryan, l must ask, Why did you come to the University of Notre Dame? If the answer depends so heavily on football, it is you, rather than Coach Davie and the football players that I feel sorry for. If you feel, as you claim, that your time here as a student has been wasted by anyone other than yourself, you are sorely mistaken. Maybe if you put the passion with which you wrote that last letter into something more productive, your life's happiness won't hang on the outcome of a few football games. 
I cannot comprehend how Ryan can evoke God's name at all in his whiney, petty and hurtful letter. His sentence, "Thank God, for allowing me to go to Notre Dame ... " should have stopped there. He, as we all are, is blessed to he here and his ungrateful attitude is no more "classy" than any aspect of this year's coaching. His frustrations with the coaching may be valid, but his suggestions as to how to alleviate them are nothing short of embarrassing. Saran wrap someone's car? Kill someone's dog? I recognize that sports are important component of our University, but let's regain a sense of perspective. I ask Ryan to consider whether the desire for a winning football season, in God's eyes; justifies hateful, suggestive comments about another. I would laugh at Ryan's suggestion if I did not fear his attitude was suggestive of seriousness and extreme immaturity. 
There is a difference between disappointment and hate. Ryan's article breeds hate and is therefore a great disappointment to me and, hopefully, other ND mem­bers. I argue with anyone who daims that football built this University and that therefore you, as a student, have an inalienable right to a winning football season. I wonder how God, the true builder of this University, would view our hateful comments against any member of our NO family. 
Anne Moriarty 
Senior, Off-Campus September 20, l 999 
bred and consider the wearing of ND clothing to be an expression of pride and unity, a veritable endorsement of everything for which this University stands. Until this issue is resolved, human rights abuses aro, in part, something that this school is supporting by not taking a sufficiently critical public stance on the use of sweatshop labor. And if your primary concern is that such workplace reform will substantially increase the cost of your beloved ND gear, consider that the aver­age worker's wages r.ould be doubled or tripled while having a scant impact (increase of one to live percent) on the price of your next "Love Thee ND" t-shirt. ls 
your identity as a ND student more important than your duty to humanity? 
French Enlightenment philosopher Jean­Jacques Rousseau, proponent of the social contract binding members of a civil soci­
ety. most certainly would say not. 
Although he acknowledged that certain inequalities were inherent in what he called the new society, Rousseau's social contract enables society's mem­bers to become part of the general will while maintaining their own identity. This unwritten contractual bond with 
other members of a society invokes a notion of considering the potentially injurious consequences that one's actions can have upon others, whether directly or indirectly, From this standpoint, consumers of ND apparel are indirectly con­tributing to the subjugation of sweatshop work­
ers with each purchase of a T-shirt. hat or coffee mug. While Rousseau was a philosopher not wholly concerned with religious preoccupations, general will is embodied in the Catholic sense of charity and moral responsibility. Meanwhile, it is being undermined by the will of global manufacturing interests who system­atically exploit and dehumanize workers in order to squeeze out another dollar's worth of profit from impoverished third-world peoples. These profits often manifest themselves tangibly in a concertized material form as the shirt on your back. 
Joseph Rumbo is a graduate student and a member ofPSA. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Raise helmets to honor your fans 
I do not feel qualified by virtue of my status as a Notre Dame alumnus to critique the play-calling ability of the coaching staff, as I would be hard-pressed to suc­cessfully command a pee-wee team. Bob Davie, Kevin Rogers and the rest of the crew are no doubt regarded as competent coaches by people who know much more about the game than we do. However. as someone who has appreciated the the tradition of the Notre Dame family for the better part of my life, I must take issue with one action Coach Davie's team has taken. 
Losing a tough game happens, and it should upset the players on the losing side. It should also upset the fans, and it has. Nevertheless, after the Michigan State game, nearly every student and a good portion of the rest of the crowd remained on their feet, showing that their love for Notre Dame transcends the score at the end of a game. I waited with the students for the team to come over, raise their helmets and show the unindoctrinated what it really means to be a part of Notre Dame. Instead, Iwas stunned as the team darted off the field. helmets on their heads, leaving the students to watch their team turn their backs and head down the tunnel. 
This display was more disheartening than any third­and-1 pass decision could ever be. When you play for a team that is named after the Mother of God, you should hold yourself to the highest standards of class and char­acter. Apparently, this belief is not one that is shared by the team. 
Coach Davie, I challenge you to remind those young men that they don't play for Southern California, and they don't play for Michigan, They play for Notre Dame, and that makes them members of much more than a football team. Winning has usually been a big part of Notre Dame football, but the Notre Dame legend was built on the bond between fellow students. We can afford to go 1-3, hut we cannot afford to break that bond. 
Kevin Kileen Class of 1999 September 20, I999 


C 

page 12 Tuesday, September 21; 1999 
ALBUM REVIEW 

Blues Traveler frontman is reborn with 'Zygote' 
"His Own 
songs that Popper, aided by his stellar back-upBy GEOFFREY RAHIE 
I d' e a s , " catch the ear. band, relies more on acoustic and Scene Music Criric 
although very The beatuful electric guitars, and his guitar work is jam-oriented, and calm the nicest surprise on tho album. HisAm nn can't da nee without the dncs not get "Once You riffs am clean and catchy, and his chance." said John Popper in his old especially Wake Cp" is solos and fills are all impressive. debut solo album "Zygote." This might with Popper's reminiscent of It s1rnms as though PopJH\r lci't a fow be somewhat ironic since Popper is · acoustic guitar a '50s ballad. of his harmonicas back at his bache­the cornerstone of the band Blues licks busting in The soft music · lor pad. After the annoying harp lines Traveler (whose situation is unknown and out of the goes well with on "Miserable Bastard." tlrn harnwni­since bassist Hobby Sheehan passed mesh. This the lyrics that c:a doesn't play a big role until "Love away a month ago) and has had moni track, like remind the lis­For FrnP." llowevHr, on this song, the than enough chances to "dance." many others on ten or that no harmonica sounds terrific, blending In fact. Popper has been criticized the aluurn, one ca,n go well with the song structurn. for "overdlJing it." Blues Traveler flourishes bad to the .lust when it appears lw lr\arnnd his albums sometimes drag with similar because of' the past: "You can l<~sson, though, 'Popper destroys a harmonica solos and too manv over­controlled and backtrack all song called "Lunatic." Although thl' dubbP.d vocals. And although some of simple manner you want/You s o n g is n ' t t ha t s t r o n g in t lu~ l'i rs t those problPms hamper this rcloasn, of how it is can mourn for place, he makes the pain grow docper the album as a whole is well rlom\, pres,1nted. what's with the bad nol!~s coming out of' tlrn Popper kicks tlw album out with the The piano on gone/But you're harmonica in t.he background of' his funky "Miserable Bastard," a dear "llome" pro­up either singing. departurn from the sound of Blues vides a nice way/You better "Zygote" is a good flffort. As domon­Traveler. The track is laced with half'way point d11al with your stratod by his role as thn l'rontman of Hammond organ and anchored by the of the disc and day." Blues Traveler, Popper is very talent­drumming of Cater Beauford -yes, the western­The folk gui­ed, many of' the songs arc catchy and the guy from Onve Mntthews Hand. type showdown tar of "How the music is genuino. Sure, some of' Although Lhn snug is very catchy, it of "Evil i-11 My About Now" is the songs can become pretentious ­loses steam in the Jam section. Chair" stands simple, but much like 0110 would get sick l'rom Popper's harmonica solo is a little out favorably. just enough to eating treats all day -but they arc grating and loses internst quickly. Some or the catapult the all done well thought.out. "Zygote" is Good thing the rest of the album does best tunes are song lo great­maturn and will be welcomed by crit­not go this route. the heart-felt ness. ics and fans alike. 
ALBUM REVIEW 

Spencer makes an explosion worth hearing 
the material that was left off the

By JAMES SCH lJYLER 
first album that slill moves, •l~!fi:;o::a;:b •·•:il1•.·a:r.•·•c:,:e··t••:1. c 
Scene Music Criric 
through all the sounds of the 
•s;:\!ii::ise:uni(d iS·y:ste m·

Blues Explosion. .When asking someone if they The highlights of the album are 
like the Jon Spencer Blup,s the various rnmixes of' songs that Explosion tlrnre am two answers appear on "Acme" and the that ,,.ill most commonly be hParcl extended "Calvin out-tro to 
-"I love tlwm" or who-what" Attack." The remixes of ''Blue 
The Blues Explosion r<~mains Grnen Olga" and "Iloavy" stand much ol' an unknown in the world out in this respect. of popular music. This is true 
There are also songs that can bccausti tlwy am musicians who stand on thoir own as quality 
care about their music and not Bluos Explosion. Songs like "Wait what MTV and tlw MTV crowd 
a Minute" and "Leave me alone tbink. This is inrrndibly sad, par­so I can rock again" demonstrate 
ticularly hecause MTV junkies arc the ability of the Blues Explosion missing out on what might be the 
to strip down and play a simple most ,mergetic, exciting band in 
rock song to its fullest. Pxistenee tod av. Although the album does not Comprised of b-sides and remix­contain the cohesive nature of es from their 19Y8 album "Acme." 
"Acme," it is more varied and the band·s latest release. "Xtra­
therefore more fun. which is 

Acme USA." once again deuion­what the Explosion is all about. It strates tlw power that can come stands very well on its own and from the Blues Explosion. This 
reaffirms the fact that the blues album does contain many b-sidos 
is !\lo, 1. -songs that arrn't complete in there record1•d form -but they 
Sideways Soul
work well, nevertlrnloss. 
Whether they were done onThey arc examples of the purpose is irrelevant; Calvinband's effort to recrnate the 
Johnson and his Dub Narcotic
magic that exists in its live shows 
Sound System released remixeswhere thr\ songs work as com­and outtakes from his recordingplete songs. What this release has snssions with the Jon Spencer
over its cousin "Acme" is incoher­"Acm1-1" on tho other hand was the Blues Explosion in the EP Sideways Johnson lends his voice to the tracks.

Pnce. Yes, that can he a good thing ­band's attempt.to bP morn cohesive. In Soul. The music is excellent. as most Blues

very good thing. Albums prior 

this nffort the band levds off in more of Although containing some similar Explosion music is. but Johnson's voicn"Acme·· movPd in and out of genres as tlrn realm of solid rock 'n' roll with a material to "Xtra-Acmc USA." it is not distracts from what is there and is not
tlw tracks rhangnd, switching from 

few diversions. nearly as successful. This, though. is a demonstration of what is tlw IJPst of
punk to bl11Ps to ro('k to hip-hop, and "Xtra Acme-USA" d<•monstratris all mostly due to the fact that Calvin the Blues Explosion.

val'iations and mixtures in b,:twenn. 


ND and SMC clubs: If you have something going on, tell Scene "way before" it happen~ 
-631-4540 or scene@nd.edu ­
'ft:" w &Qi =we 

O
THE ·foesday, September 21, 1999 BSERVER page 13 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Filter's second album doesn't strain 

construderl a 
hies "llcy Man,By CHRIS SHIPLEY 
reflection of Nico Shot" in S,·,·1w Mu,ic C:riric 
his personal its basic philosophy as framework.Al't<~r a !'our-year hiatus from thP well as a However, world of i11dustrial music, tlrn tlrnmc for the when the prolo-1nt'lal band Filtt!r has stPpped album: No onP album s1rnms !Jack into t.hc thi,:k ol' Uw mocl(1rn rock is going to Le.II to bP filled lllOVl'llH'lll wit.h "Tilil' or Hecord." its mci what to do. with other gui­Sl'('illHI major rPl<'aSP. ''You got your tar-hnavy riffs Following th,· :-;uccess of its µlaL­Jesus / And I and bt! a ts, it inum-sl'lling rlPhul album "Short got my space / takns a s11r­ll us," whir h inrl ud1•d th P 1:011 trovor­You got your prising twist s ia I si11gl" "lfpy Man. Nicn Shot." r!'a.sons / And I with, of all l,.iltl'r toun•d P1HIIPssly whilP building got my case." things, -an 11 l'irm fun bas!' holh statnsidn and lie proclaims in acoustic set. ahroad Lim first V<H'SO "Take A Frn111111a11 Hirhard Patrick and 1'.om­of "Fold." Pi!'.lufe" truly p,111y l'Plurn lo llS(' "Tit.II' or Hncord" Tlw album is shows the "~ ,1 storyb1wk lo describe lhn hap~ packPd with band's vocal pP11ings 1,t· thPil' liv1!S ov1'1' llrn past oti](' r 11 igh-and musical four yPars whiln daring listnners to intensity songs maturity ov1H lnkl' a. musical jo11nwy with FiltN's like "Captain the past four W1\a110ns or dwic<' -fast-pacnd gui­Bligh," a song years by tars and Plr\ctronira rhvthms. influenced by 
telling, with Tlw st>rnnd track. "W(dcomP To The llw classic talc acoustic gui­Fold." sPts a driving pacP for tlw resl "Mutiny On tars and per­of tlw album with biting guitars and The Bounty," cussion, of' a strong vorals whii:11 f'it all asp•icts or and "It's c h a n c e llw song's struggle b,itwc"n l'rusLra­Gonna Kill encounter tion and dl'(H'IHlcncy. Al just loss lhan !\fo," a piece which provides 1•ight minutns. Patrick has rarPi'ully which resem-a moment of 
clarity for Patrick. The final two tracks on the album, 'Tm Not The Only One" and "Miss Blwi,'' am hyp­notic in how thev blend several instruments with th;i painf'ul lyrics or a man dealing a crumbling and lost relationship. 
Despile the vocal maturity found on .. Title" and the incorporation or nnw instruments -mainly thr cello. trum­pP.t and acoustic guitar -into a sound which has b1wn lacnd with bass and guitar walls, thP disappointing racot o-f tho nnw album !ins in Patrick's lyrics. 
The majority ol' the album c•mploys lyrics involving self-pity and uncon­querable despair. Patrick's use of rPp­etition in his songs drives hom11 his points. but rnore often than not adrls lit.tlr to the actual content of tlw mes­sage. 
"Ti.tie Of Hecord" shows Filter to Im a much better band than they WP.l'P after the release of "Short Bus." Patrick and crew have started focus­ing much more on the quality or the lyrics and music on their albums than ever before. If the band continues to mature like it has for this album, it's scary how good their next album might be. 

... 
CONCERT PREVIEW 
Indiegrrl concert features artists from Michiana 
musiral greats Billie Iloliday, Mnlissa CDs, and has been nom inaled for 
Special ro the Observer 
litlrnridge and [\iatali,i Merchant. Minnesota Music /\wards Female B1i1'.g has performed at a variety of' Songwriter.ThP I1J 1J1J lndiPgrrrl Fall Tour South Bond arr.a vcnuns. Her unique Heaton is a 1994 graduate of Notre
Ii r i 11 gs 1·o u r a c r I a i m I'd 

and com-Dame. but did not begin songwriting
si11gPrs/so11gwritPrs to tlw st.age at St. 
until 1997. Since that time, she has

pnlling stY10 lndiegrrl Concert 
\lary's this hiday. 
and original released two albums which havP 
l.1•ah-Carl,1 Cordon<' . .Judy B(•rg, 
music arc . Where: Litllle Theatre, received rave reviews in "Hhythrn & 
Barham llvman and AnnP O'Mnaru 
laced with l\'cws," "The Chicago Reade·r" and
Moreau Center for the
IIPalrHl ill'.l' i111ll111g tlw 1110ft' tlian :m top 
bl ll (' s and "Songwriter's Monthly." Heaton also 
ind1•pP1HIP11I r<'malP musi1·al artists par-Arts, SMC
jazz in flu-finished in th!' top 20 of' the Onlinn
1idpati11g ill tlw six-staLP. I'.\-city tour. 
!'llCl'S. . When: Sept. 28, Lilith Fair Competition this summer. 
(;11rdo11P is Lhl' 1laughtn of' 1-:lkhart 
Hyman has lnclirigrrl performers are among the 
11a1iv1• UrnrlPs (;ordo1w. l.lw first play­7:30 p.m.
appParPd best of independent artists, sehicted 
wright ol' Afri1·a11-A11wrica11 d1isnmt Lo 
exlensivelv . Tickets: Contact the by a panel of their peers for tours.
win a l'uli\z('r l'riz,,. I.Pali-Carla 
throughou't Reprcsnnting a mixturn or musical
SMC Office ol
( ; P r do11 I' r" I " a s (' d lw r d P b ul C D . 
the Midwest. styles and genres, the artists have 
"Bull1•rl'lv Child." in 191)8. Critics hail Special Events,
Slw has pro­contributed to the organization's phe­
IH'I' voi(:f' as l'PlllilliSC('llt of' f"PnHtle 
duced three 284-4626 nomenal creative energy. 


UPCOMING CONCERTS 
Ci'Cizen Kina 

Umphre.,-•s McGee 
Moe 

Bruce Spr~nasceen 
John Popper Band 
Len 

Ben Folds Five 
Pavement Ben Harper 

South Bend 
Heanland 

Chicago 
Sub1erranean Cafe Vic Theacre Un~ted Cen1er tle1ro Metro 
Rivliera 
Vic Theatre . Riviera 


... 
Sep-e. 24 Sept. 24 Sep1:. 21-30 Oct. 2 Oct. 7 Oc-e. 14 Oct. 15 occ. 22 

I
I 
' 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 

¥ 4 Z C C. :,:n 44 uu A4 Z 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, September 21, 1999 
McGwire out-slugs Sosa in 7-2 St. Louis victory 
Marcus Jensen, Lieber (8-11) over, McGwire struck out on inning as the Milwaukee majors in batting at .380. 
As~ociated Pres• 

was lifted and St. Louis scored three pitches in the first. Sosa Browers beat the Philadelphia Walker was out of the starting two more on an RBI single by sent the crowd to its feet in Phillies 5-4 Monday night. lineup for the fifth lime in 1 O CIIICAGO 
Eduardo Perez and run-scor­the bottom half, backing Burnitz hit a three-run games because of a sore left
Mark McGwire's 59th 

ing double by Edgar TTenLeria Howard to Lhe wall in right homer in the first off Robert knee.
homer was the perfect way to for a 7-0 lead. center. Person, who had been 2-0 Gibson had been 2-for-12 ­

end a perfect game Monday 

McGwire, who hit 70 homers McGwire fanned again in the against the Brewers this sea­both singles -with no RBIsnight. 
last season to beat Sosa by third, while Sosa drew a walk son, not allowing an earned this season for Colorado. But
Big Mac broke up Jon 

four, broke his own record of in the fourth and singled to run in 14 2-3 innings. he broke loose at Coors FieldLieber's bid with two outs in 128 for most homers in two right in the sixth. Then, trailing 4-3 in the sev-­as the Rockies won un the day
the seventh inning, moving seasons. He now has 129, McGwire ran out of the enth, Mark Loretta and Jeff they hired Dan O'Dowd as

McGwire within l.wo home combining this season and Cardinals' dugout during bat­.Ciril.lo singled off Carlton their new general manager.

runs of Sammy Sosa for the last. ting practice and jogged out to Loewer (2-6) and., with two Terry Shumpert had threemajor league lead and spark­He has homered four times right field to chat with Sosa. outs, scored on Ochoa's single hits and scored three runs anding the St. Louis Cardinals to a in his last four games. He'd planned to congratulate up the middle off Scott Aldred. Ncifi Perez homered and7-2 victory over the Chicago Mark Thompson (1-2) Sosa on becoming the first Rocky Coppinger (4-3) drove in three for Colorado.

Cubs. 

allowed just four hits in six player to reach 60 homers allowed three hits in two Jamey Wright (4-2) gave upSosa flied out to the wall in scoreless innings to get his twice. innings, and Cob Wickman five runs in seven innings, andthe first, walked, singled and first victory since April 4, "People think getting to 50 pitched the ninth for his 34th still improved to 4-1 since
struck out to stay at 61 

199R, when he was with now is a piece of cake," save in 41 chances. After being recalled from Triple-Ahomers. 
Colorado. McGwire said before Monday Philadelphia loaded the bases Colorado Springs. 
McGwire finished 1-for-4 in The closest the Cardinals night's game. "You can't name with one out, Alex Arias Omar Daal (15-9), who had

the opener uf a three-game 

came to a hit before the people on one hand who grounded into a game-ending won his last two starts, lastedseries at Wrigley Field. 
McGwire's shot was with two have hit 50 homers consistent­double play. 4 2-3 innings and gave up nine Lieber struck out nine of the outs in the sixth when lv. You can't." Brewers starter Scott Karl hits and flight runs.
first 17 batters, including Thompson hit a liner that · And he said Sosa's latest allowed four runs and nine Shumpert doubled with one

McG\vire in his first two at­Cubs first baseman Mark accomplishment deserved hits in six innings. Person gave out in the first and Gibson fol­

bats, and had retired 20 

Grace jumped high to catch. more attention than it got. up three runs and four hits lowed with a home run tostraight on a chilly 61-degree Grace had dropped "I personally thought when and five walks in six innings. straightaway center field.
night. . 

Renteria's foul pop for an he hit 60, it should have been Marlon Anderson's infield Daal's RB[ grounder tied it
The game was scoreless 

error leading off the game, but the top story on every sports single drove in Philadelphia's at 2 in the second, andwhen McGwire cranked an 0-1 Lieber came back and retired television network, which it first run in the fourth, and Arizona went ahead in the
pitch over the center-field 

him on a grounder. Then the wasn't. He deserved it." pinch-hitter Wendell Magee third on Erubiel Durazo's sin­
fence into a 16 mph wind. 

right-hander took off, working had a go-ahead, three-run gle.
After that, Lieber fell apart. 

quickly and getting help from homer in the sixth, a drive Shumpert hit an RBI triple
In an ensuing span of six 

home plate umpire Ian Brewers 5, Phillies 4 that curled just fair of the left­and Gibson doubled as
pitches, Lieber gave up two 

Lamplugh's liberal strike Jeromy Burnitz hit his 100th field foul pole. Colorado took the lead for
singles and two-run homers to career home run and Alex
zone. Gibson played in place of good in the bottom half of the
Thomas Howard and J.D. With flashbulbs popping all Ochoa had a go-ahead, two­Larry Walker, who leads the inning.
Drew. After a single by run single in the seventh 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 

The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
LOST & FOUND 
FOUND: WATERMAN BALL POINT PEN BY SAINT MARY'S LAKE. CALL LORA 631-6967. 
LOST A palmpilot. Palm V, extremely important!! If found please call 4· 0870 
WANTED 
STUDENT OPENINGS 5-30 hrs.lweek. Flex. around classes. 
Scholarships avail. www.workforstudents.com/lN 282·2357 
Spring Break '00 Cancun.Mazatlan or Jamaica From $399 Reps wanted! Sell 15 and travel free! LOWEST PRICES GUARAN• TEED'!! lnfo:Call 1-800-446-8355 www.sunbreaks.com 
DON'T WORK THIS SCHOOL YEARI $1200 TO $2000 THIS MONTH. Part time 4 to 6 hours per week. Call 24 hrs (219) 229-6709 
SPORTS CLUBS & STUDENT GROUPS· Earn $1000-2000 with easy CIS Fund event. No sales required.Fund Rasier days are filling up, so call today.Contact Joe @ 1-888·522· 4350. 
Large Physical Therapy Clinic look­ing for part time employees to do follow up calls. Some filing & inputting required. Flexible evening hours. Ask for Gerard Call now 233-5754 
Loving ND-SMC couple wishes to adopt. Will provide a lifetime of laughter,love,devotion and opportu• nities. 800-484-4699 code 0019 COACH:Need Jr. High boys soccer coach responsible,dependable,student or grad to coach 7-8th grade soccer S­team. Soccer Sept-Oct;for south side elementary school.located near Scottsdale Mall on Miami Street.Must be available for prac• !ices Mon-Thurs from 2:20­3:15.Game schedule varies with 5-6 games beginning after school at 4:00,or 5pm.Paid position.Call 291· 4200 to apply. 

SOCCER REFEREES-needed for 
south side elementary school,locat· 
ed near Scottsdale Mall on Miami 
Street$20.00 per game to qualified 
refs.Call 291-4200 
Love animals? Landlord won't let you have a pet? Get your animal fix by volunteering at Pet Refuge. The refuge is looking for volunteers to help feed and care for dogs and cats. Call 256-0886 for more information. 
2 Babysitters (preferably friends) for evening of Oct 8 and during day of Oct.9 (during ASU game) for 3 year old and 9 mo. old. Must have some experience and be energetic. Good pay. Call Linda at 937-294-4857. 
FOR RENT 
ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE 
HOME FOR 
ND-SMC EVENTS. 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS.. 243-0658. 
HOMES CLOSE TO CAMPUS http://mmmrentals'.homepage.com/ 232-2595 
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths, $80· $115, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus Toll Road Exit #107, 1­800-418-9487. 
LOADED 6 Bedm1 •00-01 yr. 273-0482 / 234-3831 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 
AVAILABLE 2000-01 4-6 Student Rental. Large rooms, reasonable, awesome bonus room!! Details. Dave 291-2209. 
3-bdrm duplex. remodeled, 503 Eddy, 1 mi: from campus. Appliances, W/D. 273-8332. 
5 bedroom house prime location 
105 Marquette Ave Available now 232-6964 
FOR SALE 
Spring Break SpecialslBahamas Party Cruise 5 Days $279! Includes Meals! Awesome Beaches,Nightlife!Cancun & Jamaica 7 Nights From $399! Florida $129!springbreaktravel.com 1-800-678·6386 
FOR SALE 
N.D. FOOTBALL TIX CALL 271-9412 
FOR SALE 
N.D. FOOTBALL TIX CALL 271-9412 
LAKEFRONT BY OWNER, 3 bdrm. ranch, lg den, 2 car gar., full base­ment, 3 seas. porch, deck, most ev. new, much more. 15 mi. trom cam­pus. 616-663-6308. 
Phone Cards, 669 min/$20 243-9361 or 258-4805 
TICKETS 
I need 2 NO vs. use GA tix. Please call Autumn at 284-5024. 
WANTED NOTRE DAME FOOT­BALL TICKETS 271-1526 
SELL & BUY GA FOOTBALL TICK· ETS 277-6619 
WANTED­ND football tix. AM -232-2378 PM -288-2726 
ND football !ix for sale. AM -232-2378 PM -288-2726 
I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME GAMES.2726551 
BUYING and SELLING ND FOOT· BALL TICKETS. GREAT PRICES. CALL 289-8048 
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++ ++ 
N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS BUY/SELUTRADE ALL GAMES ALL LOCATIONS GREAT PRICES 271·9330 
!!NO STUDENT TICKETS!! TICKETMART INC. 
www.ndtickets.com 
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++ 
FOR SALE 
N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS CALL 271-9412 
NEED OKLAHOMA TICKETS! CALL TIM, 634-0959 
SPRING BREAK 2000 ''THE MILLENIUM" A NEW DECADE. ..NCE IN TRAV• EL.FREE TRIPS;FREE MEALS!JAMAICA,CANCUN,FLORI DA,BARBADOS,BAHAMAS.SJGN UP BY NOV. 5 FOR 2 FREE TRIPS AND FREE MEALS! 1800·426·7710 WWW.SUNSPU\SHTOURS.COM 
Need fix for Oklahoma, Arizona State. Call Michelle. 233·9037or 631­4542. 
I need 2-4 ND vs. ASU tickets! GA or student tickets. Please call Autumn at 284-5024. 
I need ONE use ticket! please call Nicole at X1331 
WANTED:USCTIX 247-1659 
Need tix for Navy. Buy/trade. Call 251-0001 · Andy. 
NEED: Oklahoma tickets for family. x2795-John 
Need 3 use tickets Please call Tom 634-1440 
Need 1 Oklahoma & 1 Navy GA. Call 4-2535 
Need 2 ASU Tickets Call Travis@ 319·241·1082 
My tamily needs 2-4 tickets for the USC game! Please call Camille @ 4-1704 
PERSONAL 
GRANDMOTHER WILL BABYSIT 
IN HER HOME. 233-2704 
Please make this work, observer. I'll never ask for anything again. 
Josh. Erica, Connolly and Molly rule. And I'm not just saying that b/c itbs 2 a.m. and we're in turmoil. 
We want this to work. Please make this work. Please make this work. 
WE don't like it here right now. Make it better. 
Why, oh why? 
Get us outta here. 
Notice a theme of negativity here? There's a reason a few of 'em right now. 
Ok here are alf the classifieds I promised ... 
Beth McKay, Courtney Gleason look. I've made you famous. Rob 
Quig-daddy thinks he is smooth 
Ouig-daddy thinks he is going to be breaking off a piece. 
Quig-daddy is crazy 
Chas likes dudes for dudes 
Chuk likes Doritos for Doritos A on C -No Hope 

The Observer is phasing out its photo department Instead Josh will do everything. 
I was going to be out by 3 a.m.. yeah right 

Brooke here is your classified. In the words of Julia you are a "Sexy mama! Yeah! Sexy!" 
Julia, I hope this classified makes you feel special since you didn't get one yesterday. 
Here is another one to make up for your loss yesterday 
Sorry photo Joe, I lost your classi· lied list so I can't write yours down 
I think you had something about 'naugh football or something but I forgot, sorry 
Here is a shout out to erica. you don't know who this is. go Sports' 

Sarah, did you think I would forget you? 
Of course I didn't 
Self-taught lab tech · Josh 
I don't even know 
Yeah tandem bike dude 
M'Shan's brother is cool. 

----• -------·­

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, September 21 , 1999 
NHL 

Atlanta 'thrashes' Carolina 
Associated Pres< 
GREENVILLE. SC 
Matt Johnson scored twice in the second period to lead the Atlanta Thrashers to a 3-2 preseason victory over the Carolina Hurricanes. 
Geordie Kinnear started the scoring for the Thrashers (3­2-1) with a wrist shot that deflected over Carolina goal­tender Mark Fitzpatrick in the closing seconds of the first period. 
Johnson made it 2-0 when he picked up a loose puck out­side the left circle, scoring from 30-feet out. 
Paul Hanheim put Carolina (1-2-0) on the board with 6: 14 left in the second. But Johnson answered with a power-play goal with 4:47 remaining. 
Tommy Westlund scored the final goal for the Hurricanes at 8:37 of the third. 
Scott Langkow stopped 29 of 31 shots for the Thrashers. Fitzpatrick made 14 saves. 
Canadiens 3, Canucks 3 
Trent McCleary scored late in the third period to lift the Montreal Canadiens to a tie with the Vancouver Canucks in preseason action. 
Patrick Poulin and Matt Higgins also scored for Montreal (2-4-1). Rene Vydareny, Bill Muckalt and Zenith Komarniski scored for Vancouver, which is winless in the preseason (0-2-3) . 

Kevin Weekes made 28 saves for the Canucks, who were outshot 31-26. Vancouver went 2-for-4 on the power play while Montreal was O-for-7. 
McCleary got a loose puck in the Vancouver zone and beat Weekes at 14:32 after Kovarniski gave the Canucks a 3-2 lead with a point shot on a power play two minutes earli­er. 
Jose Theodore, who replaced Jeff Hackett to start the third period, stopped Mark Messier with a pad save m overtime to preserve the tie. 
Rangers 3, Devils 2 

Adam Graves scored 59 sec­onds into overtime Monday night to cap the New York Rangers· comeback in a pre­season victory over the New Jersev Devils. 
The·o Fleury, playing his first game with the Ran~ers at Madison Square (,arden, assisted on all three New York goals. . . 
Trailing 2-0 late m the third period, the Rangers (3-1) ral­lied on power-play goals by Kim Johnsson at 16:11 and Petr Nedved at 17:33. 
Graves got the game-winner with a backhanded deflection of Fleury's pass from the right boards. 
John Madden and Jason Arnott scored 21 seconds apart early in the secon? peri­od as the Devils (2-2) bmlt a 2­0 lead. Madden scored at 1:20 as hi> shot Brian Rolston's rebound past Mike Richter. 
Just a few seconds later, Rolston fired a shot from the top of the right circle that Arnott deflected into the net. 
Oilers 2, Maple Leafs 1 
Rem Murray's power-play goal early in the third period gave the Edmonton Oilers a victory over the Toronto Maple Leafs. 
Murray took a centering pass from Doug Weight and one-timed it past Toronto goalie Curtis J.oseph at 3:~8 of the third penod as the Oilers won their second preseason game in as many nights. 
The Oilers, who beat the Senators 3-0 on Sunday, improved to 4-2 in exhibition play. Toronto fell to 2-3. 
Edmonton left wing Hyan Smyth opened the scoring on a wraparound in the first peri­od. Maple Leafs defenseman Danny Markov answered with a screened slapshot in the sec­ond period. 
Goalie Bill Ranford was sharp in his third preseason appearance. He stopped 20 of 21 shots and has a .938 save percentage in his bid to win the backup job behind Tommy Salo. 
Ranford stopped Toronto's Steve Thomas, Jason Bonsignore, Ladislav Kohn, Lonny Bohonos and Jonas Hoglund on close chances. 
Joseph made 18 saves for the Maple Leafs. 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

Rockies introduce O'Dowd as new GM 
Associated Press 
DENVER, Colo. 
Vowing to put a champi­onship team on. the field every season, Dan O'Dowd was introduced as general manag­er of the Colorado Rockies on Monday, concluding a month­long search. 
The 41-vear-old O'Dowd is considered one of the brightest young executives in the game. 
He was assistant general manager of the Cleveland Indians from 1993-98 but wa..<; out of baseball this season as he pursued a goal of becoming a major league general man­ager. 
Previously. O'Dowd was the Indians' director of player development from 1988-92. overseeing a farm system that included the Colorado Springs Sky Sox, now the Rockies' Triple-A alfiliate. • 
"Dan had a big role in build­ing a consistent winner in Cleveland." Rockies chairman Jerry McMorris said. "Now, we want to bring that winning attitude to Colorado. We feel Dan was clearly the best can­didate to move this organiza­tion to the levels we want to achieve." 
O'Dowd. who signed a live­year contract, replaces Bob Gebhard, the Rockies' original general manager who resigned under pressure on Aug. 20. 

"This is a very exciting s.itua­tion to come into," O'Dowd said at a news conference. " 
The stability of this organiza­tion is a plus in my mind. The tremendous fan support, this facility 
[Coors Field] and a solid foundation have already been laid here. 
"Our goal, very simply, is to put a championship-contend­ing club on the field each a!"'d every year. I come from a wm­ning background, and I think I know what it takes to win. We wHl raise the level of expecta­tions internally in this organi­zation. We will be hard-work­ing. we will be smart and we will be creative. 
"I was in Colorado Springs for five years, and so I kind of got a foel for what altitude ball is all about. I feel pretty good about my ba,ckground coming in here." 
During O'Dowd's tenure in ClevP,)and, the Indians won four straight AL Central titles (1995-98) and advanced to the World Series in 1995 and 1997. 
As the Indians' director of player development, he culti­vated such future All-Stars as Jeff Shaw and Jim Thome. During that period, the Sky Sox advanced to the Pacific Coast League playoffs four straight seasons and won the league championship in 1992. 
.... 
,.,, 

-------.....~-----------•--<--•------------.-----~-----~­
Tuesday, September 21, 1999 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 



Countdown to 
J2K@ND: 
101 days 

(Ii I12 Badin Hall 631-5242 @103 Hesburgh library 631-7800 @email ministry.1@nd.edu @web www.nd.edu/~ ministry 
This Week in Campus Ministry 
, 

Tuesday September 21. 7:00 pm Badin Hall Chapel 
Campus Bible Study 
Wednesday, September 22. l 0:00-10:30 pm Walsh Holl Chapel Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
A spirit-filled, student-led power half hour of prayer and music for 5ludenls of all Chrislian foilh lradilions. 
Friday-Saturday September 24-25 St. Anthony's Parish. Spring Valley, IL 
Folk Choir Mini-Tour 
Vespers, Eucharist & Concerl 
Friday-Saturday. September 24-25 St. !oe Holl Freshmen Retreat #24 
Friday-Sunday, September 24-26 Center for Development in Ministry, Mundelein, IL 
Latino Freshmen Retreat 
Friday-Sunday, September 24-26 Five Pines Asian American First Year Student Retreat 
Friday-Sunday, September 24-26 Fatima Retreat Center Notre Dame Encounter Retreat #57 
Saturday-Sunday, September 25-26, All Masses Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Commissioning of Ministries 
Beginning September 27 through November l 103 Hesburgh Library, 112 Bodin Holl Freshman Retreat #25 (Nov. 5-6) Sign-Up 
T argered Dorm5: Alumni, Breen-Phillips, Dillon, Howard, Keough, Lyons, McGlinn, Pasquerilla West, and Sorin 
Get ready to 
c 
It's been 2000 years since God became human... and all we can think about is our computers crashing?! 
Most of what we've heard in the media about the yeat< computer glitch and the mad rush to get Y2K-ready. Though important, shouldn't the new millenium herald something greater than a bug? As believers, we have the opportunity to put all the Y2K hype into a Christian perspective. The tum of the century can be an invita­tion to much, much more -it is an invitation to the Great Jubilee. This Christmas season, we will begin celebrating the 2000th year since God first walked the earth in the person of Jesus Christ. What does that mean to us? What should it mean? In Leviticus 25, Scripture spells out just what a celebration li~e this should look like. Below are the pillars of this celebration-a celebration we hope to have at Notre Dame, J2K@ND! 
. Let the land Lie Fallow 
Declare a Sabbath for the earth: Express care and respect not only for human beings, but also for all the beings of the planet: the winged, the gilled, the four-leggeds, as well as the two-leggeds; the trees, the mountains, the rivers, the oceans, the ozone. 
Declare a Sabbath to rest ourselves. Take time for rest and contemplation. Rest in imitation of our Creator God, who rested when creation was complete. Rest also so that you may give your attention, your prayer, and your worship to God. 
. Answer the Call to Forgiveness 
Listen more carefully and respond more intently to the to the command of forgiveness on both a personal and communal level. This includes all personal relationships where hurt and division need to be healed by the peace of reconciliation, as well as humanity's sins against entire peoples now and throughout history. 
Pope John Paull II has called (or removal of as much debt as possible from SILIC nations (severely indebted low-income countries). Others in both the Catholic Church and the World Council of Churches are petitioning the richer nations of the world to declare the year 2000 a Jubilee Year of release from debt. 
. Proclaim Liberty; Proclaim Freedom 
Celebrate the freedom you enjoy in this country and pray for all those who have yet to experience the freedom to express, believe, and create their own destiny. 
The Jubilee frees us to go home, to make pilgrimage. as Jesus did to Nazareth. It also frees us to go home to our place and to our people, and in imagination and memory, to meet and re-meet the people who have made and shaped us. 
It frees us to re-create; The jubilee offers us new life and the opportunity to reshape and reform our lives. This applies to institutions like the church that can be a true voice and model of Christ's spirit in the world. The Jubilee directs us to work for those things that will make people free. 
. Hold a Eucharistic Feast 
Everything we know of Jubilee reminds us that when it comes, we must pause for a great feast, for a Sabbath of joy and delight. For it is a time of thanksgiving (the meaning of Eucharist); of celebration; of a meal in community; of joyful shouting and of song. 
Good Stuff to Know 

Want to help out with youth ministry to Jr. Hj9h and Hj9h school kjds1 
@ St. Stephen Parish, a Latino parish in downtown South Bend High School: Tuesdays, 6:30pm -8:30pm+-ttt Jr. High School: Thursdays, 6:30pm -8:30pm ++++ 
(Transportation will be arranged) 
Contact John and Sylvia Dillon@ 631-7163 

...... Openings also available at Queen of Peace Parish on Mondays, 4:30pm to 5:45pm for grades 4. 5, and 7. 
Commissioning ofMinisters 
Acolytes • Eucharistic Ministers • Lectors Music Ministers• Ushers 


Saturday and Sunday, September 25-26, ALL Masm at the BtJJilica ofthe Sacred Heart 
r-
page 18 
NFL 

Cowboys defeat Falcons, 24-7 
As,oda,ed Press 

IRVING, Texas Denver isn't the only Super Bowl team in trouble. 
The Atlanta Falcons were wiped out 24-7 Monday night by the Dallas Cowboys, mark­ing the first time both defending conference champions have started the following season 
0-2. 

But that's not the worst of it for the Falcons. Quarterback Chris Chandler couldn't play 
because of a strained hamstring, and running back Jamal Anderson joined him on the side­line after spraining his right knee early in the first quarter of the weak offensive perfor­mance. 
As for Dallas, things are looking good. 
The Cowboys are 2-0 for the first time since 1995, their last Super Bowl season, and their defense didn't look anything like the group that got torched by Washington in the open­er. 
Then again, Dallas was stopping an Atlanta offense led by Tony Graziani and Byron Hanspard, third-year players with empty resumes compared to Pro Bowlers Chandler and Anderson. 
Graziani was 7-of-16 for 90 yards. His sec­ond pass was intercepted, leading to a Dallas field goal, and he fumbled early in the third quarter, setting up the touchdown that put the Cowboys up 17-0. 
The left-hander's biggest highlight was making it to the third quarter, something he failed to do in his previous two starts. The thrill was short-lived, though, as Danny Kannell replaced him after two possessions. 
Kannel!, who beat Dallas twice with the New York Giants in 1997, was almost as inef­fective. He short-circuited one decent drive with an interception, then rebounded with a 45-yard touchdown pass to Tim Dwight with four minutes left, the first time the Falcons crossed the Dallas 30 in the game. 
The Falcons threatened again but on a third-and-goal from the 4 with 1:01 to play, defensive end Greg Ellis returned an inter­ception 87 yards for the final Dallas touch­down. 
Things might have been different if the defense had to worry about Anderson. 
The reigning NFC rushing champion was lost six minutes into the game without even being hit. On his third carry, Anderson plant­ed his right foot, cut left and immediately knew something was wrong. He was grab­bing his knee before he even landed on the artificial turf of Texas Stadium. 
His bulldozing style was especially missed on three third-and-short situations when the Falcons were down 10-0. Atlanta instead had a nea-rly intercepted pass, a no-gain by Hanspard and Graziani's fumble. 
The Falcons defense was the only reason the game remained close. After gaining 541 yards against Washington in a 41-35 overtime victory, the Cowboys had 
just 231 yards. Troy Aikman went from 355 yards passing to 109, his lowest total since the last game of the 1997 season. 
Thinking of Joining the Church?? 
Try RCIA 
at 

Sacred Heart Parish 
at 
Notre Dame 
We are: 

1) WI int.er-geoer8tiona1 group [you always liked talking with Grandma] 
'l) a Wcdn~ay evening meeting [you prefer Chicago on weekends] 
3) the Parish which baptized Ch.id Pokagon 
[you like a truly long tradition!] 
4) a complement to Campu.!! Mini.§lry's RCL\ [you like building bridges) 
Call Chris Miller at 631-7508 

We didn't become Fortune• magazine's America's Most Admired Company* byaccepting the status quo. We got there by hiring and training graduates with the confidence and courage to think in innovative and revolutionary ways-
w 

Tuesday, September 21, 1999
The Observer . SPORTS 

Anders out for season after surgery 
No other corporation can match the diversity of opportunities at GE. Because we have small company attitudes with large companystrengths, we set no limits, no bmmdaries. You can move from industry to industry, discipline to discipline, and never leave GE. 
We're a leader in every business we compete in, and we're looking for leaders like Alp hie who will take us even further. Start your career byvisiting our website now. An Equal Opportunity Employer. 

September 22nd 
10:00 am -4:00 pm 
Fitzpatrick Hall ofEngineering (Stop by to discussfull-time and intern opportunities -bring your resume) 
Please confirm dates & times with your Career Placement Officefor any last minute changes. 

We bring good things to life. 

GE Air enIt Engines• GE Appliances• GE Capital Services• GE Corporate Research and Development•GE Industrial Syslems GE Information Services• GE Lighting• GE Medical Systems• GE Plastics• GE Power Systems• GE Supply• GE Transportation Systems• NBC *3/1/99 

Tuesday, September 21, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 

2 0 0 0 
Pullia1n Journalism Fellowships 
NFL 
Couch, Browns discuss first TD 
Assm;iatc<l Pres, 
BEHEA. Ohio 

Tim Couch cntlffed the Cleveland Browns· huddle in the third quartnr Sunday at Tnruwssno. looked inlo the eyes ol' his off1•11siv11 linemrrn and made a bold prnclicLion. 
"I told thnrn, 'If you givn me protection on !his one. it's going lo Im a score,"' Lhn rookie quar­terback said. 
Seconds laL<>r, Couch backed up his boast. hooking up with rookie wideoul Kevin Johnson (Ill a 31J-yard touchdown pass. It was Couch's lirst TD pass in the NF!. and Cleveland's first of the 
Sl\ilSOll. 
"W,, call him Batrn (Huth) now," Browns coach Chris l'almm· said of' Couch's called shot. 
Now, il' Couch could only tell his t1!amnrnws whnn tlwir first win might cm1w. 
Thn cxpa11sion Browns took sonw positive steps toward win No. I on Sunday in a 2(,-CJ loss to llm Tiluns. Tlmy wPrP baby steps 
t.o lw sun•. hut following an l'lllbarrnssing 4:{-0 slwllacking against I.he t>ittsburgh StndPrs in tlwir 01w11Pr, llrn Browns al least 
ook1\d likl' a pro li•am. 
"W1•'n• making sonrn strides,'' li11Pbad1•r Jamir f\1ill!'r said. "WP madP somP significant s!l!ps h1•caw;1• WP pul som!' points on tlw board offnnsivPly. !)l'fi,nsiwly, wn cul tlw scorn in hall'. Sil ~1•'rp 111aki11g sonw slric!Ps. l's nothing I would stand 11p and do !Jal'k rlips ovrn· y1it, but WP0 rP g1•1l.i11g LIH·n•." 
C1lt1d1. undPr i11tPns1: pn'sstm' to p1•rf'orm Wl'II ai'lPr l'alnwr IH•11clwd startN Ty Ih\lnwr fol­lowing llH• l'itts1wrgli dnbacln, play1•d WPII f'IH1ugh Lo justify llw dPrision. 
Alll'r having Lo slarl his lirst two drivPs at C[PvPland's 6-and 
Graduating college seniors are invited to apply for the 27~h annu~l Pulliam Journalism Fellowships. We will grant 10-week summer mtemships to 20 journalism or liberal arts majors in the August 1999-June 2000 graduating classes. 
Previous internship or part-time experience at a newspaper is desired, or other demonstration of writing and reporting ability. Those who go through the Fellowships often find new professional opportunities opening up at other newspapers during and after the program. Winners will receive~ $5,500 . stipend 1-md will work al either The Indianapolis Star o: The An~ona Rep~hlic. Opportunities for online training are available, along with reportmg expenence 
at our major metropolitan daily newspapers. 
Early-admissions application postmark deadline is Nov. 15, 1999. By Dec. I5, J999, up to five early-admissions winners will be notified. All other entries must be postmarked by March 1, 2000., and will be consid­ered with remaining early-admissions applicants. Successful applicants will be notified on or before April l, 2000, and will be asked to r~spond immediately with a letter of intent, at which tirrte one-third of the cash grant will be mailed to the Fellow. 
To request an application packet, visit our Web site, e-mail us or write: ~ Russell B. Pulliam 
~ I ,~ Pulliam Fellowships Director ••-....:...;;.;.._-. Indianapolis Newspapers
...111111 

Web site: WW\\i,\tamews.corn/pjf P.O. Box 145 E-mail: pulli.im@stamews.com 
Indianapolis, IN 46206-0145 
''A lot ofhits in the back­field, a lol ofsacks. That's what it's supposed to look like, a party on every play." 
Jamir Miller 
Browns' linebacker 
3-yard-lines, respectively, the second one ending with an end zonH sack for a safety, Couch moved the Browns' offense, which managed just 40 total yards and two first downs a week earlier. 
Under an unrelenting Titans' pass rush, Couch finished 12-of­24 for 134 yards, but was 10-of­14 in the second half for 108 yards. He was sacked seven times. hut managed 40 yards on live scrambles. 
"The main thing is that I didn't throw any interceptions," he said. "That's what I wanted lo <lo. Thnrn's a lot of little things I can improve on, and I havH to starl gelling a little better week in and week out. 
"But I foe! a lot more comfort­able. .lust going out there and playing with the guys a whole ganw as a start1ir. They get a foe! l'or what I'm like out on the field and understand what I'm about." 
Palmer. who didn't know ol' Couch's prncliction until Monday morning, said Im was impressnd with his young quartl)rback's composure. 
"I thought hn handled himself' verv well," Palmer said. "That {Tl)) throw and catch. I don't know ii' it gets any beller than that." 
And while tlrn Browns' offense improv1\d -it coulcln'l possibly get worse -Cleveland's defense got pushed around once again. 
The Titans Ol1tgained the Browns 412-17:l in total offense. held the ball for more than 41 minuLHs and ran off 74 offensive plays. For Urn second straight week Cleveland's defensive starters were exhausted and several cramped up on the plane ride home. 
With more than half of its starters coming from 1998 play­off teams, Cleveland's defense was supposed to be the team's strength this season, keeping games close while the offense matured. 
Under l'ormcr Bears coordina­tor Bob Slowik, the defense was supposed to disrupt with an attacking style. 
"Guys flying around, guys jumping up and down," Miller said. "A lot of hits in the back­!icld, a lot of sacks. That's what it's supposed to look like, a party on every play." 
But in two games, only the Steelers' and TiLans' offenses have been partying. 
The Browns haven't. forced a turnover. They have recorded just one sack in 164 plays. and with its cornerbacks playing soft, Cleveland's D has allowed. opposing QBs to complete 76 percent of their passes. 
'Tm jusL disappointed in the lime H's taken for us to gel," Millnr said. "We've come togeth­er slower than I predictnd." 
Palmer isn't blaming either starting unit for the 0-2 start. and thinks despitn the lopsided numbms his team is getting bet­tm·. 
"It's not just one side of the ball," he said. "[ sen us making improvements. t\s a coach, you just have to take small steps and if Uw players keep taking small steps, eventually it will fall into place." 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Knights win 15th straight over Manor 
By KEVIN BERCHOU Sporn Writer 
The defending champion 
Keenan Knights upended 
Morrissey, 14-0, Sunday in the 
season's opening contest. 
Keenan's 15th-consecutive 
victory did not come easily. 
however. 
As Morrissey got the ball 
back on their second posses­
sion, the Knights' defensf~ 
flexed its muscle. After break­
ing up a pass and stuffing a 
rush attempt up the middle, 
Keenan left Morrissey facing 
third-and-long. 
Determined to get his offense on the field, senior Doug Kraft bolted into the backfield from his defensive end position. sacking Morrissey quarterback Dan Sullivan. 
"lt's a lot easier to play defense early in the season," Kraft said, "The offenses are generally disorganized, so you can just kind of play an attack style." 
Neither offense could gener­ate much of an attack in the first half. After being sacked by Kraft to bring out the punt­ing unit, Sullivan was picked off by sophomorn defensive back Tom Corr on the next possession. 
Keenan quarterback fresh­man Billy Ellsworth returned the favor when Morrissey junior Mark Berndt intercept­ed his pass just two plays later. 
The half ended when Korr intercepted Sullivan one more time, stalling another drive, and sending both teams into the break, tied at zero. 
The second half was a differ­ent story. 
Keenan finally took advan­tage of Morrissey mishaps. Early in the third quarter, Kraft pounced on a fumble deep in Morrissey country. Three plays later, junior tail­back Nick Costanzo rumbled in from 13 yards out for the game's first score. 
Sophomore kicker John Rossi's successful kick made it 
7-0, 
Still up by the same score midway through the fourth period, the Keenan defense once again came up huge, stuffing a fourth-and-short at midfield. Ellsworth followed with a perfect strike to Costanzo, who moved the ball all the way to Morrissey's 12­yard line. 
After three unsuccessful attempts, Ellsworth rolled loft on fourth down and hit senior 
wide out J.J. Frigge for the 
touchdown that proved to be 
the nail in the coffin. 
Morrissey's last gasp 
attempt was snuffed out quick­
ly, as senior Joe Klopp came 
up with yet another intercep­
tion. 
The grin of senior player 
and coach Dong Min told the 
story of Keenan's 14-0 victory. 
"Morrissey was tough," Min said. "If our defense can play like that every game, and keep the points low, we'll always be right in there. We were lucky to take advantage of their mis­takes. It was a good way to open up." 
Fisher vs. St. Ed's 
IL certainly wasn't pretty. 
But, a win is a win, and 
that's just what Fisher's Green 
Wave got, opening the season 
by beating St. Ed's, 7-0. 
It was a sloppy affair, very much what one might expect from teams that havn had only two weeks of practice. 
St. Ed's first play from scrimmage set the tone l'or the rest of' tlrn game. The exchange from cnnter to quar­terback was muffed and Fisher recovered the nnsuing fumble. 
Soon af'ter, Fisher quarter­back, junior Zack Allen, called his own number. then bolted around the right sidn for a 12­yard score. 
"My !inn gave me a huge hole," All1m said. "They exn­cutnd well and gave me it lot of room to run." 
That score proved to be all Fisher's defense would need. 
Sophomore defensive line­man Dahx Maars took over from there, making big play after big play to quell one St. Ed's drive after another. When St. Ed's special teams unit rose to the occasion blocking a punt in the third quarter, it was Maars who swung the momen­tum back to Fisher. applying pressure and forcing an incompletion. 
From that point on. it was up to Allen to finish off St. Ed's. He moved the ball up field and killed time. A 30-yard scamper all the way down to the St. Ed's 10-yard line exhausted all that was left on tho clock and allowed Allen and his teammates to break into celebration. 
Pleased with their victory, the Fisher men said they know lhey have along way to go. 
"We need to eliminate our mistakes," said Maars. "We'll go back to practice this week and get ready for the next game." 
Lessons That Will Last A Lifetime. 
OFFICER TRAINING SCHOOL 
Put that college degree to use by enrolling into the Air Force Officer Training School. Upon successful completion of the Officer Training School, you will become a commissioned Air Force officer with earned respect and benefits like -great starting pay, medical and 
dental care. management and travel  
AIM HIGH  opportunities. For more on how to qualify  
and get your career soaring with the  
Air Force Officer Training School, call  
1-800-423-USAF. or visit our website at  •  
www.airforce.com  wwwairforce.com  


page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, September 21, 1999 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL 

Alumni shuts out Dillon in sloppy game, 9-0 
By JASON KROMPINGER 
Sports Writer 
After a field goal and an inter­ception reLurn. Alumni won an offonsivP-ly sloppy game, 9-0, against Dillon, and those who expected painstakingly executed plays Sunday got a letdown. 
It was not until Alumni's sec­ond possession that it picked up solid yards from running barks aud a first down. On two of 1.hc next three plays. t.he ball was fumbled, displaying some of the offense's sloppiness and inexpe­rience. The next three posses­sions resulted in little or no posi• tive yardage. 
Alumni's 

"J was really impressed wore threo-and­
defense started 

outs. By the endstepping it up on with my team today. 
of the first half.
Dillon's next 

Especially on special 
Keough had
drive. After the 

learns which we amassed only 12
Dillon running back was stuffed practiced very little yards of tot!,11 
offense.
on first down, 

this week." 
Dickas and his
quarterback 

defensive line­Conway look a 
Jason Dickas mates Dave Hunt
roughing-the­

and Shamus
passcr call on Keenan player/coach 
Alumni  and  
picked  up  15  
yards.  

After an off-tackle run went for three yards, Dillon completed a short pass. On fourth down, Alumni's Bailey Siegfried batted down a pass and Alumni had the ball again. 
Alumni came out in a shotgun formation, and on second down completed a long pass from quarterback Matt Anton Giovanni down to Dillon's 10­yard line. After getting down to the 3-yard line on a couple of runs by hard-running ball han­dler Rob Ridenour, the team set up for a 20-yard field goal, which was converted to give Alumni a 3-0 lead. 
Alumni ran a few unsuccessful passing plays on its next posses­sion but appeared to be going for it on fourth down. 
In a brilliant call by the Alumni coaching staff, the ball was snapped to the Alumni punter and not Giovanni, who was in position. The punter quickly kicked over the Dillon defense, pinning them back in their own territory. 
The play of the game came on the next Dillon possession. 
Ridenour and the offense was in a good rhythm, getting three and four yards per play and chewing up the Alumni defen­sive line. After one run went for no gain, Conway attempted a pass which was intercepted by the linebacker Siegfried who 
1-NIIT!lSI I\' or :,Jl >TIU· ll.-\~11· 
1,11-~,,n11:,:\I ,11 II\ l'lhl<,tl \\1' 
111•1 llnu,•1 llml.linf :,.,,11,: [l,111,-: 1:,.:,h,-i,1>11111 
l 1!l·Jolt»I 1X!I; t.n ,!1•ilc.i1 ;•11 

then returned it untouched 55 yards for a score, putting the game away for his team. 
Stanford vs. Keough 
Stanford's defense propelled the Gritfins to a 14-0 victory over Keough Sunday at Stepan Field. 
"I was really impressed with my team today," said junior player/coach Jason !Jickas, "espficially on special teams, which vrn prncticod very little this week." 
From Keough's opening pos­session of the game, it was clear that Stanford would not give up a single yard without a fight. 
Keough's first four offensive 
possessions all 
Rohn had a big 
say in this, often stopping Keough at the line of scrimmage. 
Offensively Stanford looked sharp, showcasing an I-forma­tion featuring two talented tail­backs. Senior tailback Chris Heid ran well behind strong offensive line blocking. 
Heid also made some excellent sideline sprints when it appeared there was nowhere to run. Junior fullback J.C. Perez found holes in the offensive line and out-powered a number of tacklers. 
Both backs aided Stanford's first scoring drive. On their sec­ond possession following a Keough punt, the Griffins gave it to Heid for a gain of six. After Perez was stuffed for a minimal gain, Heid hit a good hole cleared out by the offensive line and picked up nine yards and the first down. 
From the Keough 40-yard line, Perez ground out another four yards. A successful sweep play by Stanford sophomore running back Curt Johnson gained them 20 yards on the second down ­enough for the first down. 
From the Keough 14-yard line, Perez picked up another six yards, and on third-and-short, Perez ground out another first down to the 5-yard line. 
On first-and-goal, Perez took it down to the one, and Perez punched it into the end zone for the score on third down. 

JERUSALEM 
fNFORMATION MEETING 
'With Fr. David Burrell, C.S.C. Mr. Stephen Steinbeiser 11 
WEDNESDAY SEPTEMBER 22, 1999 
4:45 P.M. -5:45 P.M. 119 DEBARTOLO 
C 

APPLICATIO"i DBDLI'\'.E OCTOBEILLI.!1.9~ 
JE~f HSU/The Observer The Alumni defense held Dillon in check on Sunday preventing the Big Red from scoring while adding a defensive touchdown off an interceptionll. 
CLUB SPORTS 
Jones, Kremer compete at PU 
Special to The Observer 
Members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Equestrian Club participated individually in the Purdue Tournament of Champions this weekend. 
Sophomore Kristen Jones 
placed third in open fences and fifth in the open flat event. 
Freshman Julie Kremer fin• ished third in the walk-trot flat competition. · 
In their respective events, Jones and Kremer finished ahead of all riders from the top 10 schools ranked nation­ally last year. 

Fresno State and Virginia Intermont were the favorites, with Maryland, Penn State, Georgia and Dartmouth con­sidered strong challengers. Miami of Ohio, Fairfield University and Purdue finished first, second and third. 
A 
I.OCKHEED MARTI~ 
INVITES NOTRE DAME STUDENTS TO 
Information Night 
Wednesday, Sept.22 6:30 -8:00 pm Alumni -Senior Club 
Challenging Career Opportunities in Our Many Product Lines for CS/ EE/ ME/ AE/ Physics/ Math/ Business Majors 
PIZZA AND REFRESHMENTS WILL BE PROVIDED 
visit us at www.lmco.com 

... 


Tuesday, S1:ptember 2 l, I999 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
Football 
continued from page 24 
threw Tom Lopienski, who was open on second down. He then scampered for live yards aftnr a heavy rush. 
"I definitely have to improve in 
Class of 2000, 
Please join us at the Senior ·Cl·ass Mass! 
This Sunday, September 26th 9pm at the Grotto 
IS YOUR AMTACID YOUR · 

t,·•.~ 
BHTFRIEHD? 
·...., ... 
\ 

• H[ARTSURN ~ 
: • DlfFl(UI.TY SWALLOWINC.? 
• Fl.OW OF soun OR BITTER 
FLUJP INTO MOUTH? OR 

HA VE t'OU BEIH 0/At:NCUEO WITH! 
• £ROSIVE ESOPHAGITIS? 
· · • GER.I>? 
VOLUNTEERS 'THAT A.l'U AT I.EAST 18 V(AI\S OF AC.( Af\E NUDCD TO PAR.Tl Cl PATE IN A Rtsl:An(H STUP't" OF AN INYISTICA.TIONAI. MlPl(A'110N TO TnEATTHUE DISOIU>trU, 
··; QUALIFIED PARTICIPAN'rl W/1.L RI<EIYIATHOeOST; 
• STUDY REL.6.TEP .¥.E0ICAI. CARE  
• ENDOSCOPY  
STUDY RELATED MlPl<.ATIOM  
~. FOR MORE 11'-'"FO~l\UTION CALL:  /Health /\,Advance  
i219-288-0931 or  Instinne  \  
. : 1-800-797-8839  

University of Notre Dame International Study Program in 
' I 
{:~.. ·~~~~ 
I I ~l}'" .. 
J;.. II ~;r-I 
C: 
ANGERS, FRANCE 
INFORMATION MEETING 
With 
CARMEN NANNI, ASSISTANT OIRECTOR 
WEDNESDAY SEPTEMBER 22, 1999 4:45P.M . SOUTH DlNING HALL-HOSPITALITY ROOM 
Kcturning students will be on hand to answer questions 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Pangborn, McGlinn 
battle to draw 
By RACHAEL PROTZMAN 
Spores Wrirer 
Pangborn and McGlinn grabbed a scoreless tie for the first game of the season in a well fought battle Sunday: 
The best scoring opportu­nity was for Pangborn as the clock ran out in the first. Pangborn had moved the hall close lo the end zone but was unable to score. 
Defensively, Annie Sutera led by grabbing an intercep­tion· while junior Erin Piroutek added to the defense as a key player. 
Natalie Hupf picked up key 
receptions. 
"It was a good game all around," Pangborn captain .Jill DePaul said. "I think of the first game as potential to improve upon. We'll just have to practice hard and be ready tu come out on Wednesday and correct the mistakes we made todav." 
With a minute left in the game, both teams played intensely at the McGlinn 5­yard line. Pangborn's defense held McG!inn on four downs and gained pos­session. 
McGlinn then grabbed an interception to keep Pangborn from converting that effort into any points., 
Jody Greaney and Jess Coseo led McGlinn with great defensive coverage. 
"Our defense is strong. Our offense is strong," McG!inn captain Jana Poscharski said. "We're get­ting ready for the next one." 
"I thought we could have won this game," coach Tim Casale said. "This was a warm-up game. We're look­ing to next week and the ne_xt game." 
Breen-Phillips vs. Farley 
Breen-Phillips picked up their, Orst win for the season Sunday, .handing Farley an 8-0Joss. 
"I was really impressed wit~ the way our defense played," BP captain Katie Leicht said. "We hope to make a lot of improvements after this game and work more on our offense. I really felt that our defense carried us against Farley." 
Karen Swanson started 
the scoring with an inter­ception return for a touch­down that gave 13P six. It was followed by a safety from an Anne Moriarty tack­le. 
"We lost a lot of players last year, but I'm very hope­ful for the season," BP coach Kevin Shannon said. 
"We played very well par­ticularly with the defense," Farley captain Ann Fitzgibbons said. "This was our toughest game this y~iar so I think we're looking at a good season." 
After a loss in the playoffs last year to BP, Fitzgibbons is optimistic for revenge. 
"I think we'll see 13P again in the playoffs," said. 
BP will look for a second 
win at 7 p.m., Wedmisday, 
as they play Badin. Farley 
will fact McGlinn at 9 p.m. 
Howard vs. Cavanaugh 
Howard started off the season with a 12-0 win over Cavanaugh Sunday. 
''I'm proud of this team.": Howard coach Nate Medland said. "The players worked so much harder this year, which makes a difference." 
Howard sophomore Jill Veselik, led the team with an interception return for a touchdown while captain Julie Wernick completed a pass for the second touch­down. 
"We're looking to go out and play hard and have a lot of fun in the process," Wernick said. 
Cavanaugh played a strong game defensively as Heather Hoffman led the team with two punt returns for 60 yards while Katie Burdick tallied. a combined 40 yards passing and rush­ing. 
"Katie had a phenomenal day, both in catching the baH and running the ball," Cavanaugh coach Tim Kcler said. "Our defense _played outstanding. We moved the ball up and down the field well and we just looked excellent all around." 
"We're a young team and we just need experience," captain Melissa Tacey said. 
Cavanaugh next faces Pangborn at 8 p.m., while Howard is paired against Pangborn at 3 p.m., Sunday. 

the passing game," Battle said. "But working with Coach [Kevin] Rogers, Jarious, the rnceivors and coach [Urban] Meyer will help me. It will come together." 
Battle will have time to work on his passing game. Although he may see some time later this season, Davie refuses to substi­tute Battle for .Jackson. 
"There aro too many kids who have invested too much," Davie said. 'Tm not going to go up to Lamont Bryant and Bobby Brown and some of those seniors and say I'm going to play Arnaz for next year." 
"That's not going to happen," Davie said. "Arnaz Battle is going to be a good player but Jarious gives us the best chance to win." 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, September 21, 1999 
,... 

Irish football team deserves our respect 
You don'l have to be an esteemed sports writer to know that Notre Dame foot­ball will be a hot topic on this campus every fall. This is especially true this Ted Fox year, as 
the annu­al high Fox Sports 
expecta­
Almost ... 
tions are clashing with a 1­3 record. 
Because everyone, with or without dry erase boards, has an opinion on this, I figured I might as well give my one cent worth. 
First and foremost, were this team not to win another game this year or ever, for that matter, each and every player, from Jarious Jackson and Raki Nelson down to the last guy on the practice squad, deseryes our respect, our admiration and, most importantly, our thanks. 
These guys are full-time athletes and full-time stu­dents at one of the most pres­tigious universities, both aca­demically and athletically, in the country. They go through hours of practice and prepa­ration each day while still doing their school work and going to class. 
I have a hard enough time balancing the pressure sec­tion football and all that reading I'm supposed to do. let alone economics, chem­istry or calculus and thoughts of a national title. 
They give us something to talk about. they give me something to write about, they give us something to do besides Playstation on Saturdays, and they repre­sent this university pretty well. 
So, guys, if you happen to read this, and you haven't heard it lately, thank you. 
A lot of the debates, howev­er, have not focused on the players, but rather on the coaching. Here's my opinion on the whole Bob Davie situa­tion. 
First. I must admit, some of the play calls the last two weeks have made me shake my head in wonder. The deci­sion not go for it on fourth­and-1 with less than four minutes left is one such case. 
Unlike the analysis in Monday's Observer, I don't think going for it and failing would have brought more criticism than the decision to punt. 
Either way, because of the dwindling clock, the defense was going to be forced to hold MSU to a three-and-out. 

I would have taken this as a cue to go ahead and go for it and give yourself a chance at sustaining the drive. But even more puzzling to me was the rollout-pass call on third-and­1 when a run seemingly would have been a much eas­ier way to get a first down. 
Related to this first point is the absence of the innovative play calling we haven't seen since Michigan. I liked the idea of the "no huddle" offense against MSU, and it seemed to be working effi­ciently, hut I was disappoint­ed we didn't see it again after its first-half debut. 
Granted, I am no expert when it comes to calling plays, but these trends, at least from the stands, arc pretty hard to grasp. 

This brings me to my last point. As we all know, there has not been a lack of dis­pleasure expressed concern­ing many of these coachinis decisions. I have never been much of a Bob Davie support­er; Lou will always be my coach. 
However, if' we disagree with what he's doing, let's not let that view rub off on the team. I admit, I was com­plaining loudly in the stands on Saturday. But if we start booing every time we dis­;tgree with one of Davie's decisions or at pep rallies. that can't help but affect team morale. 
As for the "Bob" chant, I haven't done that for about a year, even when we were winning. I feel, as I'm sure others do, that this sort of cheer must be earned over many years, as it was with Lou, the person for whom it was created. I doubt that Bob would disagree with this. 
So, if you don't think he has reached a level where he should hear this cheer, just don't do it-. There's no need to boo him and hurt the team as a whole. 
Obviously. he still has a lot to prove as the head coach at Notre Dame. And even though I've been one of his critics, I do hope that he starts to meet with more suc­cess. 
In the end, let's not forget who this is about: our friends, our classmates and our peers, fighting for themselves and for us, 12 Saturdays a year. 
The views expressed in this column re those ofthe author and not necesarily those of The Observer. 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL 

Carrey leads Zahm over Sorin 
ran the ball in for a touch­
. Morris' sack 
down in the third quarter. A
seals victory over 
key interception by Shane Otters, 12-7 Lampman in the fourth quar­
ter put Zahm in position to 
take over the game, but By RACHEL BIBER 
Sorin's defense stepped up Sports Writer 
and regained control of the ball. 
Sunday's Zahm/Sorin A sack on fourth down by match-up showcased fine tal­Trevor Morris sent the ball, ent, but Sorin's freshman and the game, flying out of Greg Carney easily stole the quarterback Dan Burke's show, leading Sorin to a 12-7 hands and into the hands of 
win  over  the Screaming 
Zahm.  "We could have played  Otters.  
Showing his versatility at wide  better and we made some stupid mistakes."  "We could have played better," com­ 
receiver,  mented  cap­ 
strong safety and kicker, Carney was a  Mike Gerko Sorin captain  tain Garko, we made stu­ ·Mike "and  

definite key to the Otter's win. 
In the second quarter, Sorin put the first points on the board, scoring a touch­down that featured a diving catch in the end zonP. by Carney on the throw from quarterback Luke Beuerlein. 
"Beuerlein and Carney car­ried the offense," said cap­tain Fred Faber. "And Beuerlein made big passes." 
Beuerlein and Carney struck again near the end of the second quarter when Beuerlein found Carney on a long throw downfield for another six points. 
"Our quarterback definitely stepped up," Carney said. "We played well." 
Zahm tried to mount a comeback after Dan Burke 
FRIDAY 5EPfEMBER J41H Af Sf.PAf'5 COUNfY PARK K0NCERf5 FOR KID5 
WELCOMES 
Sister Hazel 
_J 
w 0: ::J 
<{ 
_J AUTEN RD 
pid mistakes." 
Garko saw a good performance in the play of quarterback Dan Burke, but also saw room for improvement. 
"We have to get rid of the sloppy side," he said. 
Siegfried vs. Knott 
The Siegfried/Knott contest proved to be a defensive war, with the Siegfried Ramblers pnwailing in a hard fought battle, 3-0. 
"Both teams hit hard," said Siegfried coach Jamie Bordas, "and it was th-e hardest hitting I have seen in seven years of interhall foot­
ball." . 
Siegfried's Peter Aguiar had a stellar day, performing well at punter and free safe­ty, and scored what proved to he the winning points on a field goal late i.n the second quarter. The defense took care of the rest of the game. 

"We showed we have one of the best defenses by shut­ting out a good team," Bordas said. 
The play of running back Travis Smith, quarterback Rob Plumby and fullback Kevin Haley also impressed Bordas. 
"Smith got tough yards when we needed it," Bordas said, "and Kevin Haley did good blocking, while Plumby ran the offense well." 
However, Bordas said he saw room for improvement. "The running game needs to improve," he said. 
Knott's defense demon­strated strength in Sunday's game but was not supported on the offensive side of the ball. 
"We need to pick it up to the next level." running back Pat Virtue said. "We need to stop key plays." 
The Juggernauts of Knott Hall never quite threatened to get the ball in the end zone, but they did display offensive capabilities. 
"We have a lot of potential with our running game and with our passing game," Virtue said. 
Quarterback and captain Mario Suarez led the offen­sive charge, but was denied by Siegfried's solid defense. 
"We need to work on exe­cuting our plays better," Virtue said. 
TICKETS $16.50 IN ADVANCE, $21.50 DAY OF 
I 
SHOW AVAILABLE AT LAFORTUNE CENTER
I­
'
rr: 
ORBIT MUSIC AND ST. PATRICK'S COUNTY
0 
z 
PARK! CALL 277-4828 FOR MORE INFO! 
r­
e') .___ ND 
Gates open at 6:00 pm. First band at 6:45 pm. 
Please recycle The Observer. 

J 

_.,._____________________________________________________ 
Tuesday, September 21, 1999 
The Observer . TODAY 
FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY 
l"\GV~E':a. ';JcM&lJ !,I.Wt,.'(!:, I" ""1'1+1£'i "1'\,\\N1'. J:t-\ 6011>/6 
.,-1,'l'-E fORE\11.:ll 6E;TTIM':> "fO avrr l-4V C, ~U'!Sr <,Al-\ 
Rl:1,.0V Al-JO PVT" IN6 ON -n::i-R\c, EVI!" "To 60"1b ~ 
~~¥-1:'.-vl' 
BILL AMEND 

"l'r1E L1TTLE LEoNARDo I THINI<: 1 ENJOY PAl<:JE.'S D1CA1'~10 AT n-lE SoTToM F1SH TANK MoRE lrlAN IS A 1'i11CE TOUCH, SHE OoES. 
I 


page 23 

.. 
A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD JEFF BEAM 

1-,,ll::W \(IPS ON T/./c --) j 131.,oc..l<-riAD A BUN CH-A \-\rf5, c.f-lJNE-Gc Fooo tv1AKf:S-,.. 
Sometimes I think, "Jeff, you're too bitter." But then I think, "Man, that song is terrible." 
beam.1 @nd.edu 


56--d'etre so wsw·s reverse 61 Final command 
from the bridge 66 California's Big 
67 Fill a tank again 68 Over, in Berlin 69 "Amen!" 10 Watched what 
was wolfed 71 Look ( over) 
DOWN 
1 Ground-level 2 King Kong, e.g. 3 Honolulu gift 4 Land south of 
Hadrian's Wall 5 Turkish V.I.P.'s &Coffee 
dispensers 7 Sprint 8 Orangeish 
shades 9--Grande 
Puzzle by Robert Dillman 

10 Charged with gas 36 Walk laterally 11 Space program . to the moon 38 --.first-name 12 Cash register basis key 40 Wings: Lat. 13 Ala carte items 41 Little Boy Blue's 18 Listen to instrument 22 By-the-book 42 Fishing poles 23 Invitation inits. 44 Waitstaff overseer tribe 47 Religious dissent 27 Black eye 48 Madison, in 29 Louts Manhattan 30 One-spot 49 Choirs may 31 Walk vainly stand on them 
.; 
Birthday Baby: Your mind knows no bounds. You will innocently plunge 

1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
into unknown territory. You seek knowledge and will never tire when it comes Annual subscriptions are available for the to learning something new. You're a versatile individual who can achieve a best of Sunday crosswords from the last position of importance throughout life. 
•
50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. (Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com,) 
© 1999 Uni\'ersal Press Syndicate 
EUGENIA LAST 
rreatiw freedom you require. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Major alterations on the home front will have a lasting effect. You can get ahead professionally if you do a greal job and d,in'I complain. Advance­ment w,11 be yours. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): You will experience difficulties if you deal with foreigners. Try to involve your­self in activities that will allow you to learn something new. Your interests will lead you to a higher position. 
000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You may feel sorry for the underdogs, but thal doesn't mean you should be giv­ing them everything you've worked so hard to obtain. Don'I be sucked in bv sob stories. 0000 
. SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Oec. 21): Don't let anyone limit your choices. State your case and let things unfold the way they are supposed to. You won't be happy if your freedom is curtailed. 00 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Your demanding nature will confuse your partner. If you take him or her for granted, you may find yourself living alone again. Think twice before you make any irreversible decisions. 
00000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): The time spent with children will be in­formative. You may not like every­thing they say, but their criticism will be honest and accurate. You'll thank them after you make some alterations. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Try­
ing to talk family into doing some­
thing will be like pulling teeth. Don't 
worry about it. Call up a friend and 
go anvway. The ones you love will be 
sorry they missed it. 000 

ACROSS 
1 ln--land (spaced out) 15 Dawn goddess 1 Or's opposite 4 Ready for business 5 George Burns's foil-Allen 6 Hawaiian dish 
7 Cheerful command from the bridge 
9W.W.II 
intelligence org. 
20 "Children of a -God" 
21 God, in Islam 23 Daytime host O'Donnell 
26 1967 Oscar winner Parsons 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
E G ..=,.~..:....jl• B A 0 N P A 
2aComposed command from the bridge 
32 Start of many 
German names 33 Deed 34 Boise's state: 
Abbr. 35 Furry 
companions 37 Great white -­39 Bert of "The 
Wizard of Oz" 43 Equal: Prefix 45 Single, in Paris 46 Restroom at the 
Cock&Bull 
47 Concerned command from the bridge 
53 Most wicked 54 1936 Olympics star Jesse 55 Raise a hemline, e.g. 
R E T S 
E T 
D S 

so Attack by plane 62 "--Mir Bist Du Schon" 
51 Blessing (1930's hit) 
52 Confesses (to) 63 Cable movie 
57 "Sometimes you channelfeel like--..." 
64Suffixwith cash 

58--fixe 
59 "Gone;· at an auction 65 Before: Prefix 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Roseanne Cash, Bob Dylan, Priscilla Presley, Tommy Chong, Patti LaBelle, Ivan Capelli, Queen Victoria 
Happy Birthday: You'll have plen­ty of energy this year. It will be easy for you to pick up added knowledge as well as put some of your well­thought-out ideas into play. You have learned from your past misfortunes and are ready to show the world how great you can be. It's time to let your confidence swell as you reach for the goals you've been working toward for some time now. Your numbers: 12, 17. 23, 34, 36, 43 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Romantic encounters will develop if you go out with friends. You'll be in a talkative mood and will charm just about anyone you meet. It will be a great day to get your point across. 
000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Take a drive around and look at some property that interests you. A residen­tial move would be to your advan­tage. Don't allow your emotions to stand in the way of making a neces­sary change. 00000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your emotional outlook will be better if you are happy with yourself. You need to set some personal goals and go full tilt until you achieve them. 00 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Be careful while traveling. Don't let your emotions interfere with your work. You need to concentrate on important issues. Don't be tempted to get involved with someone who is married. 0000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You need to feel satisfied by the work you do. If you don't, then you must join a drama group, dance classes or any other activity that will allow you the 

Visit The Observer on the Web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
fller , 9~ A Benefit for the Catherine Peachey Fund, Inc. 
for Breast Cancer Research 
J...... ·· 

. PANCAKE BREAKFAST 
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 25 -11:00 -STEPAN CENTER 
T-SHIRTS TO ALL FINISHERS 
J



REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS • $6.00 IN ADVANCE AND $7.00 DAY OF RACE 
Re<Sports Office Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 
DEADLINE FOR ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS 9/24/99 AT 5:00PM 
1-6100 • http;//www.nd.edu/... recsport 
STUDENT AND STAFF DIVISIONS ­

--~----­
.,. 
Battle for South Quad 
The Alumni Dawgs defeated the Dillon Hall Big Red on the opening weekend of interhall football. 

PORTS 
page 20 
O
THE 

page 24 BSERVER Tuesday, September 21, 1999 

FOOTBALL 

Quarterbacks face uncertainty in off-week 
By TIM CASEY Spam Writer 
Jarious Jackson and Arnaz Battle headed off Cartier field side by side Monday night after a long practice, showing no hints of a quarterback contro­versy. , 
.Jackson. in his blue Notre Dame warmup suit, and Battle. sporting a red No. 3 jersey. an~ the only two experienced quar­terbacks on the Irish roster. They were engaged in convPr­sation with follow quarterback freshman Garv Gnllsey. 
Wlrntlrnr tl;ey Wt>t·e talking about l'ootball or what they would have for dinner, it was apparent that their rc>lationship goes beyond footlmll. 
··11e·s helped me a lot," Battle said about Jackson. "Any ques­tions I've had. I've gone up to him and he's helµed me out with them." 
This has ncvnr been more important than now. After suf­fering their third loss in a row. 

i . the Irish race qunstions about the quarterback position. Heading into the season, Jackson was the clear-cut No. 1 starter. The senior captain was coming off a season where he led Notre Dame to eight straight victories and a berth in the Gator Bowl. Now that has changed. The Irish stand at 1-3. with a Bowl Championship Series appearance an impossibility and postseason possibilities looking slim. Jackson suffered turf toe in the Sept. 4 Michigan game. His performance since has fall­en with the team's misfortunes. 
He's thrown twice as many interceptions (6) as touchdowns. So far this season. he has gained less than two yards per 

carry in 48 rushing attempts. 
And he's lost more games in Notrn Danrn's first four games this year as he did all of last year as a starter. 
Jackson, who missed Monday's practice due to swelling in his toe, will most likely return later in the week. With an open date before the Oklahoma game, Jackson has a few days to rest his injury. 
"!laving the open date is the best thing for me and the team. as far as for me to be l 00 per­cent." .Jackson said. "I haven't been 100 percent the last couple games. I haven't been able to do a lot of tlw things I wantfld to do 
· becausii ofmy toe." Despite Jackson's injury and inconsistent play, head coach Bob Davie insists there is no quarterback controversy. "It's too early now [to make a switch]." Davie said. "I've got too much respect for Jarious. I know how much Jarious means to this football team." Ever since Jackson suffered an MCL•injury in last season's LSU game, Davie vowed to give his backup a chance to play. True to his word. Davie inserted Battle into the opening game against Kansas early in the second quarter. Battle pro­ceeded to struggle throwing the ball but has shovvn a knack for gaining yards on the ground, highlighted by a 76-yard touch­down scamper in the fourth quarter. After being sidelined the fol­lowing two weeks against Michigan and Purdue, Battle got a chance to showcase his talents again Saturday against Michigan State. In his only appearance of the game, on the third Irish series, Battle over­
see FOOTBALL/page 21 

VOLLEYBALL 

Irish spike Redhawks in three straight games 
I By MATT OLIVA l .. Spans Writer 
The Irish women·s volleyball team easily knocked off visit­ing Miami of Ohio Saturday, winning in three straight games. 
Notre Dame pulled ahead early and never looked back, winning the games, 15-8, 15­1, 15-5. and improving their record to 5-2 overall. 
Kristy Kreher led the Irish offensively with 1 I lcills, a .563 hitting percentage and three aces. 

Junior outside hitter Christi Girton made her first start of the year for the Irish and con­tributed nine kills and 11 digs. 
The Irish wen~ never behind. They start­ed off Game 1 by taking a command­ing 12-2 

lead over Kreher 
t h e 
Hedhawks. 
Miami got as close to the Irish 
as six points twice in the 
game, but at 14-8, Kreher clinched the victory with a game point kill. 
"We had a good week of practice," Girton said. "It was very competitive and we broke things down, especially pass­ing. 
"We did not pass well last week and the games really hinge on passing," she contin­ued. "That was the key for us this week and there was a dramatic change in our pass­ing in the stats." 
Game 2 saw the Irish domi­nate Miami, finishing with a quick, decisive, 15-1 Irish win. 
Game 3 began tighter for both teams, with the Irish leading 4-3 at one point. 
The Irish were able to score six unanswered points against the Redhawks to once again take a commanding lead. 
Miami never closed the gap as freshman Kaitlin McEwen's block sealed the victory in the game and match. 
"DefonsivPly, we work on siding out." Girton said. "We try to get a quick side out and not let other teams the chance to score a lot of points." 
Tho defensive strategy worked well for Notre Dame 
as they only allowed a com­bined 14 points in three games. 
Captain Mary Leffers con­tributed eight blocks for the Irish, leading them defensive­1y, while captain Denisii Boylan added four blocks in addition to her 30 assists for the three-game match. 
The victory tied the series between the .two schools at three games each. 
Notre Dame will play its next two games 011 the road this I• rid ay and Satu rd ay against Wyoming and Colorado State. 
VolJeyball

vs. Oklahoma ar St. Mary's (Calif.) October 2, 1:30.p.m. Friday, 2 p.m. ~ at Olivet College
SPORTS ~ ~ 
Wednesday, 6:30 p.m. 

at Seton Hall Volleyball # ATA VS; .,, ~ at Hope College
Friday, 1 p.m. arWyoming
GLANCE Golf 
Sunday, l p.m.
Friday, 7 p.m. 

' .... 







