________________,_____________________,___________________ 

Bring on the Eagles 
Tragedy at Texas A&M 
Senior strong safety A 'Jani Sanders and the 
A bonfire collapsed early Thursday morning. 
Irish hope to salvage their season Saturday against the No. 25 B.C. Eagles. Get the low­down on both teams in the Insider. 
Irish Insider 

THE 
VOL XXXIII NO. 56 

Remembering 
the 'ND Ten' 
Thirty years ago this week, students were punished for protesting recruiting visits 
By ERICA THESJNG Assnciate News Fditnr 
On an autumn afternoon 30 y,iars ago. stud!'nL'i gathnrn<l in thn Main Building to protest on­camp us r11cruitment by the CP11tral lntcllignncn i\g1rncy ICI/\I and llow Clmmical. 
Bnl'orn thn sun snt behind the Goldnn Donw, policn in riot gear descended on the building. l11 

"These protests were
following recruiters to hours. fivr stu­about us as individuals participate in d,in Ls wnrH a question­
confronting the
suspnnclml, fivn and-answer
l!niversily and
wnro nx1rnlhid session prior and the roln of administration about its to on-cam­a Catholic uni­pus inter­
moral pretensions." 
versity during views for warlimP was students to finrculy dnbat­Mark Mahoney '71 gather infllr­!!d from tlrn student protester mation on 
La I• or tune 
Studnnt Cmlt1ir 
to lhe St. .Joseph Superior Court. 
Tim Nov. 18. 1969. protest of thn Cl;\ and Dow interviows wern not the first at Notrn llame. Concerned with Dow's production of Napalm used in Vintnam and with tlrn CIA's inltirvonlions in Chile. University studm1L'i prnparPd a largc-scaln demonstration during snvnral days ol' intnrviflws in 1968. 
In F,1hruary J969, Lhen­Univnrsity president Father Thnodore Ilesburgh rnsponclod to Lho campus activism with the "I :i minutn rule," explaining that disruptive students would bn given l 5 minutes to disperse. Failure to cooperate would rnsult in suspension. In an eight­page letter to the community, llesburgh said students who protested more than 15 minutes could face expulsion or arrest. 
Undeterred. student leaders pla111md the 1 969 protests. According to Mark Mahoney, '7 I • tlw Student Senate passed a 
resolution 
asking 
the compa­
nies' prac­tices. This would only occur when a sufficient number of stu­denL'i petitioned for it. 
But the University refused to arrange that forum. Mahoney said. As a result. the students gathered outside the interview rooms in the Main Building, demanding a forum with Dow and the CIA. 
"These protests were about us ,. as individuals confronling the University and administration about its moral pretensions," 
see ND TEN/page 4 
killing II. 
News . page 3 
Friday 
NOVEMBER 19, 1999 

HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
HEADIN' TO MANHATTAN 
~. 
.. -~ 


~· _,2 
......•.,.·,,.-,,...,;_..~--,~-.,·-. '.t;' 
,..,·:.)· .. 
~ . , fl(,;:;, .. :· 
' .•le ,_.., ' 
........._, 
"'\ 
Coach Matt Doherty and the men's basketball team are on the move again after they defeated Siena College 107-96 Thursday In the second round of the Preseason NIT. Read about the game on page 36. 
Offenheiser: Debt relief is essential to developing world 

By LAURA SELLINGER News Writer 
Debt relief and world hunger­were tied together as students shared "A Simple Meal" with Oxfam America president Ray Olfonheiscr on Thursday night. 
Students gathered in the Cenlnr for Social Concerns with Olfonhcis1~r. a 1971 Notre Dame graduate, for a meal of beans and rice and a discussion ofglob­al poverty. Offenheiser leads Oxfarn America, an international non-profit organization that pro­motes progress and growth around the globe. 
"We arc a development organi­zation with a human rights per­spective. From a social and eco­nomic po.int of view, Oxfam America seeks to find sustain­
able solutions to the global issue ,or poverty," OfTenheiser said. 
Debt is also a serious problem 
plaguing many third-world 
developing countries today, he 
said. 
"After unscrupulous political 
leaders have died or been over­
thrown, many developing coun­
tries discover they have enor­
mcrns debt burdens to repay," 
Offenheiser said. 
As a result, he said, the coun­
tries are forced to pay off their 
debts. and continue to pay them, 
regardless of expenses for agri­
culture, education, health and 
otlrnr public services. Because 
these public services bocome vir­
tually extinct, the citizens of 
these countries are subjected to 
severe injustices. 
At the same time. these trou­bled nations are unable to receive additional loans to pay off their debts. Because the debl':i remain unpaid, they also face a harsher punishment -thn inability to participate in global­ization and advancement. 
"This was the preoccupation which concerned Oxfam Amnrica because it had economic and moral issues," Olfonheiser said. "Something needed to bP-dmrn to assist these countries but tlw question was what." 
Currently, rnrrcscntativns from Oxl'am i\nrnrica. religious loaders and dcbt rPlief' support­ers have b!\!111 working hard to establish a debt relief' program. /\ key victory was achiewid in thn 
see DEBT /page 10 
The Observer . INSIDE Friday, November 19, 1999 
THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S HISTORY 
page 2 

INSIDE COLUMN 



Simply the best 
Whenever I return home for vacation or break, there's one question I usually face when someone finds out I go to Notre Dame: "What's the best Irish football game you've ever seen?'' 
Quite a few choices come to mind. There's Jim Sanson's field goal over Texas freshman year, or upsetting 15th-ranked LSU in '97, or defeating defending champion Michigan at the start of '98. 
But it doesn't take long 
. for me to come up with my answer: Notre Dame vs. Rutgers, November 1996. 
That answer usually prompts a look of confu­sion. "A 63-6 romp over a winless opponent?" they say. "Why would THAT be your favorite game?" 
Well, in order to understand my reasoning, you'd have to know my grandfather. 
Born in 1921, the original William Hart was around for all the Irish national champi­onships (although if you ask him, he doesn't remember much about 1924). Despite never going to Notre Dame, he rooted for the Irish with all his heart, no pun intended. 
It wouldn't be an exaggeration to say that everything I ever learned about being a sports fan came from him. 
But even though he was a diehard Irish fan, he had never seen a Notre Dame football game in person, home or away. So, when I offered him the chance to see the Irish play the Scarlet Knights, I didn't have to ask twice. 
There we were: Three generations of Harts -myself, my father and my grandfather ­sitting together in the third-to-last row of the stadium. 
Sure, we were on the south end of the stadi­um and there wasn't any way the goalposts could have blocked the action more. 
Sure, it was some of the coldest weather I had ever experienced in Notre Dame Stadium and there was never any doubt as to the out­come. 
But I hadn't seen my grandfather that happy since his last granddaughter was born. He cheered as hard as any student I had 
·seen. He did the wave with gusto and booed all the penalties that went against the Irish. He groaned at Sergeant McCarthy's fourth­quarter puns as if he was a veteran of Notre 
t Dame Stadium. 
I 
' But the moment I realized this was the best Irish football game I'd ever attended came after the game, when we were standing 
r 
shoulder-to-shoulder, singing the Alma Mater while swaying from side to side. For college football fans across the country, 
the last home game for Lou Holtz was the biggest event in the country that weekend. But for me, that was only a side note. 
And after my years of reflecting on this moment, I came up with this: Sometimes it isn't which game you're watching but who you're watching it with. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Tim Logan Mike Vanegas Kate Steer 
Graphics Erin Pirourek 
Joe Mueller Kyle Andrews 
Production 
Sports 
Kerry Smith Noah Amstadter 
Lab Tech 

Viewpoint 
Angela Campos Dustin Ferrell 

The Observer (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of th, Associated Press. All reproduction righr~ an: reserved. 
Students tear down goalpoast 
November 17, 1987 Follqwing the football team's victory over Alabama, students stormed the field. Despite attempts by ushers, state police and security, the students -chanting "take the goalpost" -ripped down the goalpost in the south endzone. It cost between $1,300 and $1,700 to replace. Although a few minor injuries to students and police occurred, no serious injuries were reported. 
OUTSIDE THE DOME 
MIT grad sues over revoked diploma 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 
A 1998 MIT graduate who had his diploma suspended this summer for involvement with the death of a first­year fraternity pledge sued MIT Tuesday for breach of contract and intentional infliction of emotional distress. Charles Yoo was pledge leader for the Phi Gamma Delta fraternity in September 1997 when Scott Krueger, a freshman pledge, died ofalcohol-poisoning at a fraterni­ty party. More than a year after his graduation, MIT charged Yoo with hazing and violating the school's fra­ternity policy. MIT's Committee on Discipline voted in August to revoke Yoo's diploma for five years. Yoo denies hazing Krueger. "We didn't want a tragedy to occur. We just wanted to create an event that was fun for everyone in the house," Yoo said Wednesday. The Committee on Discipline's rules and regulations states that MIT can withdraw academic degrees after gradua­tion "for actions that occurred before graduation but were unknown at that time." Yoo's attorney. Timothy Burke, charged MIT with violating its own policies. Burke said the college was aware of the death and criminal investigation while Yoo was still a student. 
Baptists consider cutting ties with Wake Forest 
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. "Wake Forest would have The convention is "deeply grieved The Baptist State Convention of by the recent decision at the universi­
to, in the next year.
North Carolina approved a proposal ty in regards to a homosexual union to vote next year to end its remaining really repent." at Wait Chapel. This motion is in no ties with Wake Forest University way punitive or given in a vindictive because of recent conflicts of interest. spirit," said the convention's state­
Bill Boatwright
If approved, the proposal would end a ment, according to the Winston-Salem 
public relations director
165-year-old relationship that began Journal. when the convention founded the uni­Baptist State Convention "Wake Forest would have to, in the versity. next year, really repent. They're not 
Despite the vote in support of the going to do that. They're going to
convention opposed the sale of beer
proposal, president Thomas Hearn have to close the pub and change the 
and wine in Shorty's, the campus cof­
said that the university would contin­[chapelJ policy if they want to get back
fee shop, because they felt it contra­
ue to uphold its Baptist heritage. in the fold. so to speak," Bill
dicted their ideals. 
The convPntion held its annual Boatwright, the director of public
Additionally, some convention mem­
meeting at the Lawrence Joel relations for the convention said in 
bers are upset about the possibility of
Veterans Memorial Coliseum earlier the Nov. 17 Chronicle of Higher 
a same-sex union on campus.
this week to discuss many concerns, Education. Chaplain Ed Christman has said
one of them being their relationship Members of the convention have with the university. Many Baptists are that he would schedule a same-sex also approved a motion that any con­disturbed by the sale of alcohol on covenant ceremony in Wait Chapel if vention employees who perform campus. it were requested by members of the same-sex covenant ceremonies be 
Earlier this year, members of the Wake Forest BapList Church. fired. 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather"forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon.Friday, Nov. 19. 
p,..,,.,,... 

® © . C3~E:m~Llli o~a~ 
High low Showers Rain T-storma Flurries Sriow lco Surmy Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Vi.!1 As.soc1a!8d p,,a,s 
Atlanta 70 49 Las Vegas 68 56 Portland 54 46 
Baltimore 64 42 Memphis 72 44 Sacramento 63 46 
Boston 58 40 Milwaukee 56 38 St. Louis 58 38 
Chicago 58 38 New Yori< 62 48 Tampa 77 58 Houston 80 60 Ph1ladelph,a 64 44 Wash DC 66 46 

Interhall championship moved from stadium 
November 18, 1971 The battle between Dillon and Morrissey for the interhall football title was moved from its originally scheduled location in Notre Dame Stadium to Cartier Field. The change was necessary becuase the stadium grass had been aerated and reseeded. Members of both teams expressed disappointment. It's every kid's dream to play in Notre Dame Stadium, noted one player. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
Illinois profs protest sale of notes 
CHAMPAIGN, Ill. 
University of Illinois professors who feel copyright laws are being violated are considering a lawsuit against commercial note-taking companies such as Versity.com and I-Notes. Mark Leff, associate profes­sor of history, said he and other professors from the history department are going to be discussing legal action with administrators because notes from their lectures are being sold. Professor Craig Koslofsky's History 111 notes are available to his 700 students through Versity.com and I-Notes, and he is consider­ing legal action against the companies. He has applied for a government copyright of his lectures by provid­ing tape recordings and notes from the course. He said he also asked I-Notes to stop publishing notes from his class, but there has been no resolution. "They are stealing my intellectual property," he said. "Those are bootleg aotes." The professors' actions come at a time when other institutions are protesting commercial note-taking. The University of Vermont-Burlington Faculty Senate banned commercial note-taking last week. 
~,~,~~~~ ~ ~ ~ 
Showers T•sforms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Assooated Press Graph/c:jNBI 

Friday, November 19, 1999 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
--------~~-­
Pregame bonfire collapses at Texas A&M, 11 dead 


Log pile collapsed 
.. 
after crane struck it 
TEXAS A&M BATALLION 
U-Wirt· 
COLLEGE STATION. Texas 
Al ltHlsl 11 'foxas A&M sluclt)nts wern killed and 28 injurPd narly Thursday wlrnn the bonfire stack collapsncl into a dangerous lrnap of heavy wire 
and logs. 
At 2:28 a.m. CST; a crane lifting a log hit the slack too hard, apparently cracking the center• poln at tlw basP, wit1rnss11s said. 
EnwrgPncy crPws wern dispatclwd at 2:42 a.m.; tlw first crnws arriVPd on the scene six min· utes lalm·. 
Slruclural m1ginP<ffS have arrived on the scene along with morn than I 00 law-11111i>rcmnent and rPscun 1wrsonnel. Specializnd sound nquipmnnt and motion clntt\ctors am lming usnd in thn res• cun opnralion. 
Thn slack fell suddenly, trapping workers on and 1war the stack. 
"I hrarcl a snap. cent11rpole cracked and al! of stack came down fasl!ir than anyone could movl'," said Aileen Dryden, a sophomorn general studies major who was working at the workers' ndi·eshrmmt stand. "The next thing I knew, peo• pin wern going crazy. and there were bodies on Urn ground." 
A C:ollegn Station Mmlical Center spokesperson said 12 students were hospitalized, three of whom were in critical condition. 
Ollicials rnportnd that Corps of Cadets Company K-l was working on tlrn collapsed sidn of the bon­lirt'. 
Otlwr Corps units and residence halls on the stack siln wern llrn FIIK Complex. Moses llall, Aston llall, Company D-2, Company C-2, Company K-2. Squadron 16 and Squadron 17. 
Ollidals said at lnast 24 workers were on the stack wlrnn il collapsnd. 
Ilillary .Jonns. a University Police Department (UPI>) s1,curity ollicer, said the UPD critical-ind· dPnt rnsponse lt>am. urban seard1-and-rcscun ll'lilllS and communty lirn departmnnts and emer­gnncy nwclical·rnsponse t<iams rnspondml to the collapsi•. 
Sim said an off-duty of1icer witnessed the col• laps!'. 
orbiit 
catt1f>US SkOf>f>es -Sf. Rd. 23 -21'1.2<13.'1<1<1, (ne>cf to Wolfie's ~ ) 
*on Sale* 

orbif Music, boys/ sells /frades fhoosands of used cDs, c.asseffes, w,ovies and video ~aw,es. 
\Jisif oor ofher 2 loc.afioris: ToWri at'14 coor1fry S1,of>pirig cerifer -Mc.~iriley Ave. -21'1.2s,.sz'IZ ~elleville Shoppiri~ cetifer -Wesferri Ave. -21'1.U'l.ltt'I 

www.orbifreG~!ds.GottJ 
At1i Difrat1c.o To fhe Teefh 
$11.'f'f CD $t.'l'I cASS 


JP BEATOfThe Texas A&M Battallon 
Texas A&M students join hands In prayer after a bonfire collapsed on Thursday. It killed at least 11 people and 
Injured 28 early Thursday morning. 
Michael Guerra. hall council president for the FHK Complex, was escorting a worker from-the site to her residence hall when the stack fell. 
"I was in complete disbelief," Guerra said. "I had just seen it standing; then it was down. It's something that should never havehappened. It's something that you never expect." 
Guerra said more than 30 people from the FHK Complex were at the site. 
About 4 a.m.. redpots called for assistance to transport logs and rescue trapped workers. Guerra said precautions taken by bonfire orga• nizers had saved lives. 
"By the time I was able to get back to the site, the rescue efforts were being coordinated," he said. "One good thing about bonfirn is there is a line of command that went into action tonight. 
"The situation was handled as best as it could be under the circumstances." 
In a news conference earlier Thursday, Texas A&M President Ray Bowen said, "It's evident there won't be a bonfire." 
*on Sale* 
·,· ,. 

~orwt 
Issues $12.'f'I CD $'1.'l'I cASS 
Students flock to site, help in rescue efforts 
TEXAS A&M BATTALLION 
U-Wire 
COLLEGE STATION, Texas 
Questions like "Why?" and "How?" largely went unan· swered as thousands of students pulled themselves out of bed and streamed onto the Polo Fields at Texas A&M University. 
Most studnnts were forced merely to observe and wait impatiently outside police lines. 
Shouts of frustration and con• fusion, as well as anger and sadness, moved through the assembled student body, but the most common expression was one of blank disbeliAf. 
Sixty to 70 students were on top of the logs trying to build the stack when it suddenly gave way, university officials said. 
"I was dazed. I was kind of thrown against the wall." said sophomore Caleb Hill. "For a while, I could see a few people trying to jump off the stack. get out from on top of it, out from underneath it." 
Sophomore Michael Guerra, who was helping build the bon­fire, had left for a few minutes and returned moments after the collapse. 
"People were running around calling people's names and cry­ing," Guerra said. "Other people were just like zombies. They couldn't believe what had hap­pened." 
Most of the students who stood in the cold, also stood in the dark with only rumors and 
I : 
J-I 
second-hand stories. 
A number of students talked hurrindly on their cell phones, some calling to check on friends' whP.reabouts, others to tell their parents, who soon would be receiving news rP-ports back home. 
Many of thosn who worked on this year's bonfire came out dressed in work clothes. 
These students moved anx­iously from one area to the next, looking for an opportunity to help. Others sat silently star­ing at the pile of logs that hours ago was Urn bonfire stack. 
Students were seen sobbing and hugging their friends as they feared the worst. Animosity was turned on police monitoring the barricades and news reporters taking footage of the accident. Shouts of "go home" and "this isn't a Kodak moment" could be hnard. 
A large body of students stood on the west end of the police perimeter, ready to go into the scene and help remove logs. 
Local officials at first kept all students outside the lines, but nAeding more manpower, they let teams of 20 workers at a time remove logs not in the area of the collapse. 
Despite the cold air and early hour, the thoughts of !'our to 5,000 students scemrd focused on the most important thing ­the safety of those still trapped beneath the collapsed pile. 
Material from The Associated Press was used in this report. 

------·-------•------------z----·--------~· -----------------------------------------­
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 19, 1999 

ND Ten 
continued from page 1 
Mahoney said this week. "It was a big deal for those folks who were involved because we made a very deliberate choice." 
Father James Riehle, then dean of students, collected ID cards from protesters, Mahoney said. Several students turned in their cards in a show of solidarity with the protestors. Others dispersed when they heard state police had been called in, Mahoney said. 
Mahoney, who said he was not blocking any entranc_e to the interviews, was among those sus­pended by the University. Along v.1th the five students who were expelled, this group became known as the Notre Dame Ten. 
Mahoney said the punishments seemed random, as. some who were suspended had been more involved in the protest than some who were expelled. Others did not appear to be involved on any large scale. None of those singled out were elected student govern­ment officers, he explained. 
"We really were, at the time, I think, scapegoats for the need for [Hesburgh] to demonstrate that 

k 
Italian!lnlnSlcWan .. ~'-----'~Trattoria D g ~"\.,__ ~
O 
1... .. (_'"Z35 S. Michigan St. Fre•h prepared ers, >.---South Bend, IN 46601 Pl.zz:a, Beverages ·-----7U 219-233-1000 

he was a tough university presi­dent," Mahoney said. "In fact, I think they delibflrately picked people they thought would be weaker types." 
Rallies and forums supporting the Ten ensued through the com­ing weeks, with several faculty members helping the group pre­pare its defense for appeal. 
Among those was professor Charles McCarthy, '62, who directed the new Program for the Study of Non-Violence. McCarthy later resigned in protest bf the punishment inflicted on the Ten. 
"Were the students wrong'? I did not believe so then and I do not believe so now," said McCarthy in a speech at Notre Dame in 1994. "I preferred to stand with the excommunicated rather than the cxcommunicator -and so I voluntarily !Aft tAach­ing Ch;,L<;tian nonviolence at Notre Dame. 
MAanwhile, the students car­ried the burden of taking the news home to their µarents. Mahoney. whose father was in the Air Force. was also a coun­selor for conscientious objectors. Mahonev's view of the war com­hined ~ith his suspension was hard to explain at home. 
"My fathor was furious·. Absolutely furious," Mahoney said. "He just thought it was very embarrassing." 
During the suspension, the University ccntacted the students' respective draft boards to inform them that the suspended students were re-eligible for the draft. 
"This exposed each of the Ten to the risk of being drafted into the Army during the resulting lapse in their student defer­ments," Mahoney said in a writ­ten statement. "For many of the Ten, given our beliefs, this would have meant criminal resistance to the draft and jail, or flight to Canada." 
The students were not drafted during that period and were allowed to reapply to Notre Dame for the spring semester. Mahoney and Jim Metzger, another mem­ber of the Ten, even worked as RA's during their last year on campus. Mahoney keeps in touch with his friends from that period, including some administrators, but continues to struggle with the University's paradoxes. 
"I comfl back once in a while, to visit friends mainly -not on foot­ball weekends," he said. "I wasn't really alienated from the University. I was more alienatfld from the administration and what the University represented." 
Mahoney, McCarthy and two other Ten members -Ed Roickle and John Eckenrodfl -returned to campus in 1994 for the 25th anniversary of the protest. They met with students, visited classes and spoke on the idea of a Christian university. 
The Notre Dame Ten are still concerned with what Mahoney calls "the challenge of creating and maintaining as 'Christian' a University which is involved by necessity with governments and institutions and corporations whose goals, actions and beliefs may be inconsistent with those 'Christian' values." 
Mahoney said that during his meetings with students, he detect­ed the same problems that exist­ed during his undergraduate years, including non-u.nionizcd employees, poor gender relations and racial tensions. 
.. "I don't know if tlrn University is helping [students] sort all this out," he said. "There still seemod to prevail on campus some of these unresolved ... tensions that to a great extent the administra­tion seemed oblivious to." Mahoney is now a criminal defense lawyer in Ruffalo. N.Y. lie said the idea of moral confronta­tion that spurred him to protest 30 years ago is still at work in his law practice. lie explained that the right of confrontation and cross-examination are important to his work. J:or those reasons. and for his friends, he is grateful for his years at Notre Oamc. "That Notrn Dame exp11rience was an important part of my life," hfi said. "But I think it was more, like everybody else, what I made of' it than what Notre Dame made ofme." 
.JDM Communications 
NEXT-=-"
-
AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE 
• 100% National Digital Wireless Network 
• Direct Connect * 
• No Roaming 
: Ask About Our No Long Distance* 
• No Contracts 
Call Today and Ask About Our: 250 Anytime Cellular Minutes w/ 1000 Free Weekend Minutes* 
For $40°0 per month 219-23 7-1082 802 East LaSalle Ave., South Bend, IN 46617 
(Just South of St. Joseph's Medical Center) 
l 0% Off of Equipment and/or Accessories w/This Ad 
(Valid thru 11-30-99) 
www.jdmcommunications.com "Bringing You Tomorrow's Wireless Technology Today" 
Social Concerns Seminar: Theo 366 
tl-11
Spring 2000 
CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 

-> A two-week service-learning opportunity in Mexico: May 17 -31, 2000 -> Students earn one credit (Fall 2000) -> In Mexico, students experience and reflect upon the economic political and 
social realities of Latin America ' ' 
-> Studen~s chosen to participate in th_e Mexico Seminar meet weekly during the Spnng Semester to plan, orgamze and fund.raise for the trip -> Knowledge of Spanish is helpful, but not required -> Open to Notre Dame and St. Mary's juniors, sophomores, and freshmen -> The Seminar fee is $500 ($100 deposit with remainder due in April) 
INFORMATIONAL MEETING Monday, November 15, 1999 4:30 p.m. Center for Social Concerns APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE AT THE CSC APPLICATIONS DUE NOVEMBER 22 (preferred) or November 30 (last day) With $100 Deposit Deposit returned if application is not accepted 
For more information contact: 
Ben Peters, 631-5370 or 631-5293 Joe Lake, 634-4917 Marina Ziolkowski, 634-2532 

•
orld 
10 

AFP Pholo 
U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan gives an address at the opening of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. The leaders of Turkey, Azerbaijan and Georgia later agreed to build a 1,080-mlle oil pipeline to prevent the continent's oil supply from being controlled by a single country. 
Caspian pipeline accord signed 
Friday, November 19, 1999 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Pope gives poverty advice 
VATICAN CITY 
Th1\ k1•y to rnlinving the world of poverly. hunger and discasn lies not in ideological solutions hut in spiritual ones, Pope John Paul II said Thursday. "Poverty, hunger and dis­Pas11 ran no longi•r lw regardnd as either nor­mal or incwilnhl<•," llw pontiff said in a mes­sagP to thn Homn-basnd U.N. Food and Agrkullun• Organization during its biennial ron1'1•n•n1·1•. "Murh can he dorn~ to dnf'nal llwm. and tlw human family looks expectantly lo tlw Unit.11cl Nations, in particular to tlrn Food and Agrirnltun• Organization. lo take tlw lrnd," tlH1 popP said. lit~lievlng human suf­fl'ring roquin!S a "1110r11 profound and iuf'initu­ly morp «TPalivP powt•r of hopo" -not idoo­logirnlly moUvall'd ,iction, he said. "This cPn­tury is strf'Wll with nxamplns of programs and a(~Lions whirh hav11 aggravated rather than ndinvn{I hunHlll suffering" because lhey wern motivatnd by idPology, thn pope said. 
Germany welcomes Amazon.com decision 
BEHUN 
G11r111any's justic11 minister on Thursday wPkom1'd a d1\cision by onlinc rntailcr Amazon.com to stop shipping Adolf llitlnr's "M1d11 Kamp!"' l'rom tlrn United States Lo cus­tomers in Ccrmany. whnrn the book is banrrnd. MinistN Herta Danubler-Gmelin. who had appnalrnl earlier to Internet retailers lo r11sp11ct C,mnun laws regarding such books, said i\mazon.com's voluntary decision should s1md a "positiv11 signal" to others "not to dr,liv­11r to (;Nmany any more literature that is racist and shows contempt for mankind." Amazon.corn spokesman Bill Curry in Seattle said tlrn book -protected under U.S. free spnnch rights -was still available on its U.S. Web sit11. but customers seeking to hav11 it clelivernd to Cermany would have their order chmied. 
EgyptAir tape to be transcribed 
WASHINGTON 
A tmun of' government safety experts, hired lranslat11rs. and Egyptian. FBI and manufac­turer repres1111tatives is trying to precisely transcribe EgyptAir 990's cockpit voice_ rncorder tape. and they expect lo take at least five days. With no evidence of explosion or mechanical malfunction. investigators have focwmd on the voice recorder tapll. On that tape>, a rnlicl' co-pilot alorrn in the cockpit is lrnarcl to say "I made my decision now; I put my l'nith in Cod's hands" just before tho Boeing 7(17 b11gan its fatal plunge into the Atlantic off the Massachusetts r.oast. ollicials close to tlrn invnstigation said Wednesday. Moments aftnr the dive bega.n, the pilot rnturned lo struggle futilely to pull out. Egypt's ambassador lo the United States today questioned whether that statement is on the 
tape. 
SSiP 500: 
142.t.9.t 

11,035.70 • 1.i.13 
VOLUME LEADERS 
nttau.td; I,l;rl!iH ~ 5;:liil4r.UIJI 
COlii',\Q COMP\TT&I\ CPQ -;J, Hi AQILl'NT Tl'CH IN A +49 .1i0 01:LL CONFUTl:lt Dl:t.L +2. 99 
JCOM CO:U COM +ll. '9 
!MATRON nre IH-'T -l'il.7' Al'ISft CH.ANPXOM ACU +JS1,ao NICJ:OMO•T co11., MSP'T -0,IJ7 HWLl:TT~:PACltll.D +:1.6., 1 
!N'M., WUI )fl.CRIN "'" ,... •t.'51 
,.... .,.o~ltn'llL COJtP 
Composite Volume: 1,254,714,400 
i 
~Wt.liSil r:us;;1 
HQ.1500 54.?l -1-1'.81!00 .u.n +l.UIOO )7.15 
.,.uoo J3.1l 
-o. 7'525 ,,.8J 
+l.0175 Jl.U 
-IJ.6£10 Jl.U +13.3100 21.27 ., . :i'500 lS.7'2 +l.'7!500 18.S7 
COMPILEIJ FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
TURKEY 

Associated Press 
ISTANBUL 
President Clinton said Thursday a deal lo send Caspian Sea oil to world markets without going through Russia or Iran will help ensure that no country can choke off the global energy supply. 
As Clinton watched, the leaders of Turkey, Azerbaijan and Georgia signed a series of agree­menl'i to build a 1,080-mile oil pipeline from the rich fields of Azerbaijan through Georgia to Turkey's Mediterranean port of Ceyhan. In addition, a gas pipeline will be built from Turkmenistan through Turkey. 
"These pipelines will be an insurance policy for the 
CUBA 
Opposition calls for political opening 
entire world by helping to ensure our energy resources pass through multiple routes instead of a single chokepoint," Clinton said. 
Most Azerbaijani oil is exported through Russia. Much of the Middle East's oil passes through the nar­row Straits of Hormuz, which separates Iran from the Arabian peninsula. 
The Clinton administra­tion has pushed hard for a pipeline agreement, which also is aimed at drawing the oil rich region closer to the United States and Europe and reducing Russian influence in the newly independent Central Asian states. 
"These agreements ... are truly historic," Clinton said after the signing in the Ottoman-era Ciragan Palace. "They will advance the prosperity and security of a region critical to tho world." 
Russia and Iran both had pressed Azerbaijan to agree to deals in which the oil would pass through their territories. 
Moscow has backed a pipeline that passes through the Russian south while Iran favored an oil swap in which Azerbaijani oil would be sold in north­ern Iran and oil from south­ern Iran would be sold on Azerbaijan's behalf. The Iranian deal was thought to be the cheapest, but vehe­mently was opposed by the United States. 
The setback for Russia came during a meeting of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe in which Russia 
known dissidents, and two other Christian Liberation Movement members. 
The statement also called for the lifting of American trade sanctions against the Caribbean island. saying they gave the communist govern­ment an excuse for the nation's woes. 
"It is not true that we want to disrupt the summit or that we oppose this integration process," tho declaration added, citing President Fidel Castro's charges that dissident 
faced sharp criticism for its military campaign against Ch11chen rnbels. 
After the signing. negotia­tions between governments and oil companies over financing will have to begin. 
Azerbaijan produces some 100,000 barrols of oil a day. about one-tenth of the 1 millions barrnls a day that would make the project viable, experts say. That is only a small fraction of the world's oil consumption. Saudi Arabia, for example, pumps some 8 million bar­rels per day. 
Some exp11rts say it could cost billions of dollars to bring Azerbaijan's oil industry up to the level in which it could pump enough oil to make the pro­ject viable. It is not clear, however, how large am the oil reserves in the area. 
groups had tried to derail the gathering. 
Castro dflf1indnd his country's system. saying its elections were far morn democratic than thosn of ollwr nations. 
Cuban opposition groups havn complained about a lack or human rights ­nspocially thn right to exprr!ssion. 
Communist lnad11rs havo said, though. that Cuba rnspects human rights more than other countries by providing extensivn social services. 
Associated Press 
HAVANA 
A Cuban opposition group asked visiting heads of state to push for Cuba to be more politically open and for the United States to end its tradn embargo, the group said Thursday. 
The statenrnnt by the Christian. Liberation Movement said democracy and human rights were needed to allow Cuba to take its rightful place in the Spanish-speaking 
world. 
Numerous heads of state attending the annual Ibero-American Summit earlier this week made indirect calls for a political opening in Cuba. Most already had left Cuba by Thursday. 
"If this opening is not realized inside Cuba, it will be artificial and really unfounded to say that Cuba is part of the integra­tion process," said the statement. which was signed by Oswaldo Paya, one of the island's better 
Friday, November 19, 1999
page 6 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

ing Citl~~ 
Richard~} 
oudis riflthe ecture.Jlin us ing foll9:yved 
Drew ~ill sign 
Artful Spirit:
·••:•~•: . 
Your Life!! 7 
,·:#f 
pies of h"fJ 
;on ofCh~_rles 
·:ti 
..,,cj 
E ~t 
ii~ 
. K yj{C ENT 
.._;:, !fog 
• www.ndbookstorl!.com 
hiday, November 19, 1999 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Business profs rank among most published 

By MAUREEN SMITHE 
Assisram News Editor 
Two Notre Dame professors have shown that cutting-edge research papers attract a nationa.l readership -again and again and again. 
Marketing professors William Wilkie and Joel Urbany wnrc recently cited in the 1999 Journal of Consumer 
Psychology as "Publications are forms 
published is 
two ol' the 
of contributions to crnating now 
most frpquMt­
knowledge,"
ly published knowledge and are quite 
Urbany said.
authors in in keeping wilh the 
''It is really
their field. The 
mission ofa university." what schol­
designation 
arship is all
places them in 
about -the
the top nine WIiiiam Wilkie 
advanc11ment 
percent of 
professor of marketing of' tlrn fin Id."
published con­sumer market-i n g researchers. 
From the late 1970s to the 1990s, Wilkie's and Urbany's rnsearch has appeared in "a lot of places," Wilkie said. "I believe the study covered the 'Journal of Marketing ' 
'J ' 
ournal of Marketing. Research' and 'Journal of Consumer Hcsearch,' which '.1re three of the elite journals m our field," Wilkie said. 
Wilkie has been on the Notrn Dame faculty since 1987. and he recruited his colleaguo Urbany to the University f'ivc years ago. 
"He is a leading researcher in consumflr behavior and is an excellent teacher," Wilkie said. Both men study how con­sumers interpret arid affect information. 
"I work on issues involving marketing, consu·mers and public policy," Wilkie said. "My work in the journals concfm-
SMC to hold prayer
HOMES FOR RENT 
•
services next week 

Observer Staff Report 
-Dornus Properties has six, 
I.n the sp!rit of Thanksgiving, 
seven, and eight bedroom 
Samt Marys will host a prayer service in Regina Hall at 7 p.m.,
houses available 
Monday, and at 10 a.m., Tuesday.
-Student neighborhoods close to 
The service will give students, 
campus 
faculty and administrators an opportunity to gather and to
-Security systems provided 
give thanks before going home for the traditional celebrations
-Well maintained homes 
with family members, said 
-Maintenance staff on call Judith Fean, director of Campus Ministry at Saint Mary's. 
Those who attend are asked to bring canned goods and non­perishable food products. All donations will be sent to food pantries through the St. Vincent DePaul Society. Each building on campus has a box where food products can be deposited. 
A reception sponsored by Saint Mary's president Marilou Eld~ed wil_I ~ollow the prayer service. This mter-faith service, led by students, will also include readings by faculty and staff. 
The event is sponsored by Campus Ministry. 
Available for the 2000/2001 school year BETTER HURRY!!! ONLY 4 HOUSES LEFT 

Contact Kramer (219)274-1501 or (219)234-2436 or (219)674-2572 
Please, 
recycle
Got a job? 
The Observer. 
The Observer is hiring for next semester. Call Tim at 1-5323. 
I___ _ 


trating on thn gnnnral aroa of consum11r information." Urbany's research docs not diffor greatly from Wilkin's. 
"Most of' the work I've dorrn is how consumers soarch for inform~tion and how they search for price information " ~rbany said. From an acaden;­1c standpoint, published ~esearch is crucial to both pro­fessors and the Univcrsity, they 
said. 
"Being 
Wilki(i, who 
graduated from Notre Damn in 1966, agrees. 
"I came away from my undergraduate studi<is at Notni Damn with tho ickalistic bnlinf that universities rnpresnnt a sp<~cial sector in socioty in which tlw search for knowl­ed~e and undnrstanding is prized, and I dncid1\d that that's what I wanted to do with my lifo as well," Wilkin said. 
"In this sense, publications an1 forms of' contributions to knowledge and am quite in kenping with tlw mission of' a university," Im adclncl. 
Wilkin rncogniws a universi­ty's dirnct 1rnnd for publislwd findings. "If' Notr<! l>anw is to be a grnat univnrsity, it 1wnds to contribut11 to tlw body of thought in the world as wnll as to the nclucation of its gradu­ates," lrn said. "With rnspnct to research here, my rnsnarch keeps my teaching up to date on thinking in Urn field." 
page 8 The Observer . RELIGION NEWS Friday, November 19, 1999 
Bishops approve more decrees 
. NCCB calls for increased fight on poverty 
By RICHARD WESTLING A..sociared Press Wrirer 
WASHINGTON 
A day after approving a con­tested policy on theology teaching at church-related colleges, America's Catholic bishops returned to well­charted terrain Thursday, reaffirming their belief that governments must take responsibility for the neediest in society. 
Academic groups had long lobbied to prevent the kind of controls over college theolo­gians i.hat Pope John Paul II and the Vatican wanted. The bishops and colleges must slill hash out details on implemen­tation. and observers expect running controversy for years to come. 
In contrast with the intense 
collflge deliberations. the hier­
archy passed without debate 
or dissent a 35-page "pastoral 
message" on charity. The 
paper praises Catholic 
Charities, the nation's biggest private social service network, and Catholic Relief Services, its international counterpart. 
Repeating a view the U.S. bishops have held since 1919, the paper declared that gov­ernment has special responsi­bility for social welfare. 
The bishops said the United States learned in the 1930s that only government can 
Bush and Gore presidential campaigns. 
At a news conference con­cluding the three-day meet­ing, the bishops' president, Joseph Fiorenza of Texas. said tho U.S. church will con­tinue to be outspoken on such public issues as economics, foreign policy, capital punish­ment. assisted suicide and 
"ensure regu­lar income support for "We're not going to pull aged, dis­
back. We will respond to 
abled or oth­
these issues out ofwhat
erwise needy families." But we believe." "those princi­ples have 
Bishop Joseph Fiorenza
come under attack during 
NCCB president 
the latter part of the 20th h u m a n embryo research. 
"We're not going to pull back," he said. "We will respond to these issues out of what we believe." 
Anxiety 
Cl"ntury as a negative attitude developed with regard to the msponsibility of government." 
The bishops did not oppose outsourcing of social services to commercial businesses so long as "profiteering at the expense of the poor" is avoid­ed. The paper does not explic­itly explore "charitable choice," widened government funding of overtly religious agencies as promoted by the about spiritual trends sur­faced as the bishops discussed a forthcoming policy state­ment on church architecture. Cardtnal James Hickey of Washington, D.C., said fewer Catholics believe in the real presence of Jesus Christ in the sacrament. He also noted a decline in prayerful silence before Mass and such prac­tices as genuflection before the altar. 
Educators unsure of Ex Corde 
ByJR ROSS 
Associated Press 
SOUTH BEND 
Theology professor Lawrence Cunningham doesn't feel he needs approval from his local bishop to teach his theology classes. 
"If [the bishop! wants to know whether I amrm the faith of the Catholic Church, I go to Mass every Sunday," Cunningham said. 
Still, the Roman Catholic church hierarchy might not give him a choice. 
The nation's bishops Wednesday overwhelmingly approved new rules aimed at controlling theologians and their teachings at the country's Catholic colleges and universities. 
While opponents see the new 
rules as a threat to academic freedom. supporters argue it only reaffirms Catholic colleges' adherence to church doctrine. 
Father James Conn, a dean and canon law professor at St. Mary's Seminary and University in Baltimore, said the changes 

All Shows Before 6 PM $4,00 $4.00 Stmlent~/Children/Seniors $6.50 Aduil Stereo Surround Sound in all Theatres 
Anywhere But Here PG-13 SS 
2:00 4:50 7:4D 10:15 
Bringing Out the Dead R 
1:20 4:15 7:00 9:40 
Double Jeopardy R 
1:05 4:10 7:15 9:45 
House On Haunted Hill R 
1:15 4:00 7:10 10:00 
2:05 4 :45 7:45 10:25 
Messenger R SS 
12:50 3:55 7:00 10:05 
Music of the Heart PG 
12:45 3:45 7:05 9:55 
The Bachelor PG-13 SS 
12:50 3:15 5:40 8:05 10:35 
The Bone Collector R SS 
1:10 3:50 7:20 10:10 
The Insider  R  SS  
1:oo  4:20 7;55  
3:00  7:05 10:20  
The World Is Not Enough PG-13 SS  
1:15  4:05 7:00 9:50  
2:10  5:00  7:50  10:35  
3:05  5:55 9: 15  

TOD~~ IIMI> ONtl f'Cui OM A!WANt! ll(k(T 1/il! i,l,ll{IIC,lll A<Cilllil! IMC ,d)!£1 • NC ,vJii5,1,'!R~ 
simply establish clear guidelines ment it? What strategies are they outlining the relationship going to use? To what degree is betwe.en the church and the uni­it going to be coercive?" versities. Cunningham said. "I can just 
'Tm a canon lawyer and so I think of a million questions." like to see rules and procedures Undoubtedly, among the clear," Conn said. "I think that biggest concerns to educators is this has just been unfinished what affect the rules will have on business that's lasted nine academic freedom. years." Other school presidents, such 
Other Catholic educators and as the Father Robert Wild of professors reacted cautiously. Marquette University, continued 
The problem for many is that to question the wisdom of the no one knows for sure how the mandate. changes -especially the man­"This is the area about which I date -will be implemented. have the most concern, frankly, 
Also, bishops still must write because it is still not at all clear procedures for granting -and how this is intended to be imple­removing -their approval of mented, and because it goes to theology professors, which hasn't the heart of academic freedom calmed any fears of the changes. and what it means to be a uni­
"How are they going to imple-versity," Wild said. 
•------""°~.--1111111"""'¦.--1111111-1111111_______.. 

'~;
COLUMBIA UNIVJERSI 
::~:?::::::::;:#,::-:-· ~­

SCHOOL OF INTERNATIONAL AND PUBLIC AFFAIRS 
To enroll at the School oflnternational and Public Affairs is to arrive where the world's pathways oflearning, policy, and action converge. 
At SIPA, Columbia University connects in countless ways with New York City, and with economic and political networks that span the globe. 
Here, guided by distinguished scholars and policy professionals, our students train to be tomorrow's leaders. 
Learn abaut our two degree prog1•ams 
MASTER OF PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION 
MASTER OF INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS 
Call (212) 854-6216 
sipa_admission@columbia.edu 
www.columbia.edu/cu/sipa 

cinema@thesnite 
"POWER.FUL AND EXTREMELY EMOTIONAL. 
I predict it will be nominated for Best Picture." 
ROGER EBERT, CHICAGO SUN TIMES 
'WRITER, DIRECTOR AND STAR ROBERTO BENIGNI HAS CHAPLIN'S GENIUS FOR COMBINING COMEDY & COMPASSION.· 
Jmt S1H.EL, COOD MORNINC AMERICA 
"Two THUMBS ur· 
SISKEL & EBERT 
WINNlR Of 12 MAJOR INTERNATIONAL AWARDS 
---lndudffl1--­
CANNE5 FILM FESTIVAL -Grand Jury Prize-
JERUSALEM FILM FESTIVAL 
-The Jewhh Expc,rl•nce Aw•rd · 
EUROl'~AN FILM AWARO -Rini Pidu~cr~R.est Actor ­
TORONTO FILM FESTIVAL 
-AQCU~a:c;,.. Awar4 ­
this film replaces "Eyes Wide Shut" on the schedule 
Fri. &Sat. 7:30 p.m. and 9:45 p.m. 
presented by ND Film, Television, and Theatre www.nd.edu/~cothweb 

Friday, Novembe~r~I9~•~1~99~9===========T,='h=e=O=bs=er=v=er=.=N=A=T=l=O=N=AL==N=E=W=S=================================pa=g==e9 
Federal court closes desegregation case 
Congress delays transplant ruling 
charged issue of who gets a new liver.
By LAURA MECKLER 
chance at life will be argued "Shame on me and shame on 
Associated Prrs, Writer 
again in 2000. us and shame on our govern• Meanwhile, the United ment and shame on the trans­BALTIMORE Network for Organ Sharing, plant community. Don didn't lntnrvening at tlrn last minute, which runs the nation's trans­have to die. And hundreds of congr11ssional leaders are block­plant system and opposes the other people have not had to ing lhe Clinton administration's new rules, was meeting in die," he told a hushed board. allempl to direct more donated Baltimore on Thursday and "Millions of dollars have been organs to the nation's sickest considering its next step. spent that could have been transplant patients. Watson Bell, whose wife spent on what we're here for, 
The delay, which will hold up received a liver transplant and which is saving lives." the new rules at least three who represents the public on The board applauded. Later months. came despite an agree­the network's board, delivered in its two-day meeting, it was to ment on the organ allocation a stirring rebuke to the board consider whether to propose a Issue last week between the for fighting over allocation new policy for distributing Iiv• administration and negotiators while more than 4,000 patients erlj, as the regulation that was for Congress, who were ham­die each year waiting for trans­to take effect in January mering out a massive budget plants. That includes a man requires. deal. from his home state of The issue divides Congress 
The move ensures that the Arkansas whom he called Don. along regional lines. emotionally and politically who died waiting for a new Lawmakers from communities 
that would benefit from the new rules have backed the administration; those from areas that fear they would lose organs have fiercely fought them. 
Congress has kept the rules on hold since they were intro­duced in February 1998. 
Administration officials and their backers were thrilled last week with news of the deal allowing them to go forward. But word quickly spread, and lawmakers realized that the rules would take effect while Congress was out of town for the holidays. Several members of Congress threatened to hold up the entire budget deal. 
Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott, R-Miss., responded Wednesday night by inserting a longer delay into unrelated leg­islation that is sure to become 
law. 
<[:l 
\,J 
We're \oo\cin9 for new idea~ to
O­maKe, LNO 14 £, ~£,'5T E-VE,{2.!
E 
0 ---;r-
Wf/ 


z 
'P\ease lontad: 
-t-
Kara at 1-si,1 or '5u~ie at 1-3531
_j ~ 
-Z?~~ 
The N anovic Institute for European Studies 
presents a lecture by 
J.D. Bindenagel 
Special Envoy for Holocaust Issues 
"The Democratic Revolution of 1989: The Birth of the Berlin Republic" 
Monday, November 22 12:45pm 119 O'Shaughnessy 
Mr. Bindenagel has been one of America's leading European diplomats during the 1990s. He was acting American ambassador from 1996-1997 and deputy ambassador to German~ from 1994-1996. Previously be was state Department Director for Central-European Affairs, responsible for relations with Austria, Switzerland and Germany. As deputy ambassador at 
the U.S. Embassy in the German Democratic Republic (1989-1990) during the democratic revolution in east Germany that led to the fall of the Berlin wall, free elections and German unification, Mr. Bindenagel has a knowledge of the events that few Americans possess. He has held numerous other diplomatic posts beginning in the late 1970s. In addition to these diplomatic duties, he has served on the German Marshasll Fund of the U.S. where he_ worked with business, foundations and the government to promote closer transatlantic relations. His most recent appointment is as Special Envoy for Holocaust lssues, U.S. Department of State, which has the task to bring compensation to those ~ho suffered property losses or as a result of being subjected to slave or forced labor m Gennany. 
By CRAIG HORST Associated Press Writer 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. 
A federal judge has dis• missed Kansas City's long­running school desegregation case, saying the district is making substantial progress toward providing equal edu­cation for blacks. 
The ruling ends a 22-year legal battle that has cost the state upwards of $2 billion, one of the costliest desegre­gation cases ever. 
Although the decl• 
from feder• al over­sight, he upheld a state move to strip it of accreditation. 
The district remains over• whelmingly made up of minority students. Whipple said the district had met its goal of achieving as much racial balance as possible given the number of black students in the city. He also said the district had improved accounting procedures and developed a quality instruc­tional plan. 
The lawsuit filed in 1977 led to state-funded desegre­gation programs aimed at attracting white children from surrounding suburbs. 

The programs included, among other projects, devel• opment of magnet schools focusing on specialized themes like environmental science or a foreign language. Some argued that too much money was spent on perks such as overseas travel for students. 
The superintendent of the district, Benjamin Demps, called dismissal of the case a. "historic day" that 
Arthur 
Benson II, 
attorney for the plaintiff schoolchildren, said he did not know whether they would appeal the ruling. "We are genuinely undecid­ed," he said. 
The judge refused to over­turn an October decision by the state Board of Education that would strip the district of accreditation beginning In May. The board found that the district failed to meet 11 performance standards used by the state to measure stu• dent achievement. 
District officials have argued loss of accreditation would hasten the flight of stu­dents to charter schools and would make it impossible to comply with desegregation orders. 
Whipple said the district's argument was an example of how it had used the court to protect itself from account­ability for the continued low performance of Its students. 
"The court believes the [dis­trict's] ability to use the court as a shield from responsibility and accountability negatively impacts its motivation to take the actions necessary to be an effective school district," Whipple said. 
C!'XCFXCFXCFXCi'XCl'XCl'XCl'XCJ'XCi'XCFXCi'XCFXCi'X 
X=UNKNOWN 
If It aHma that your heart la atrttchlng to let you know more about God'• way1, please consider ~coming a 
XAVERIAN BROTHER 
In the 1plrlt of St. Franc:11 Xavier and our Founder, Theodo1'9 Jam•• Ryken, wt attempt to 1llow God to btc:omt more and more pre11nt In our llvta and through u1 to the world. 
XAVERIANS -seeking to know God through a contemplative stance in life 
BROTHERS -seeking to love God in service to God's People 
For further baforaa11loa conlatt: Brolhcr Jim Coaaolly, C.F.X. Director or Membenblp for Vocalloail 1710 Amdul St. Or11111bure, SC 29115 BOJ.!34-230l 1awl1 xbro1hcm@obur11 1wt 
s i o n "The ability to use the presented Wednesday court as a shield from the district 
by U.S. w l t h
responsibility negatively 
District "tremendous 
Judge Dean impacts motivation." opportunity
Whipple and greatfreed the 
responsibili­
Dean Whipple
district ty."
U.S. District Judge 
Ci'XCl'XCi'XCl'XCi'XCl'XCl'XCl'XCJ'XCl'XCi'XCi'XCi'XCi'X 
page 10 The Obseroer . NEWS Friday, November 19, 1999 
Dragging convict sentenced to life 
Associattd Pres< 
JASPER, Texas 
The last of three white men to stand trial for chaining James Byrd Jr. yo the back of a pickup truck and dragging him to pieces was found guilty of mur­
der  but  spared  execution  
Thursday.  
Shawn  Allen  Berry,  who  

insisted he was just a frightened bystander, was sentenced to life in prison for one of the nation's grisliest racial crimes since the civil rights era. His racist room­mates were both sentenced to death. 
The all-white jury took 10 hours Wednesday and Thursday to convict. him, but only two hours to agree on a sentence. Berry, 24, must serve at least 40 years in prison before he has a chance of parole. 
Jurors rejected Berry's pleas that he felt his own life was in danger by his racist compan­ions. 
"There was a day and time in this country when juries and cops ignored racial cases. Facts are facts, though, and they stayed with the facts." Jasper County District Attorney Guy James Gray said. Prosecutors said Berry invit­
Prosecutors called no witness­ed. Byrd to join the three for a es in the punishment phase, but ride, helped chain him to the introduced evidence regarding truck, and then drove during Berry's prior convictions for the dragging. burglary and drunken driving. Berry, however, testified that 
For  the  he  tried  to  
defense, nine people testified that Berrv - "/ am very sorry from what happened to Mr.  stop the attack until King warned  
who unlike his fellow defen­dants did not  Byrd and I've said that from day one."  him that a "nigger lover" could meet  
have a history of  the same fate  
rad.st activities -did not meet  Shawn Allen Berry convicted murderer  that awaited Byrd. Herry  

the death-penal­ty test of being a future threat to society. Among those witnesses were several of Berry's friends and a psychiatrist who testified against the other two defen­dants in their trials. 
Byrd, a 49-ycar-old black man, was beaten, hooked to Berry's truck with a 24-foot log­ging chain, and dragged by his ankles over three miles or a country road last year. 
Berry's roommates, avowed white supremacists John William King, 25, and Lawrence Russell Brewer, 32, were sen­tenced to die in separate trials earlier this year. 
claimed that 
he was so~ 
scared he wet his pauts and did nothing fur­ther to intervene. Berry also insisted it was King who drove the truck. 
"Look across that jury and look at the Byrd family sitting right there and explain why you don't have any remorse in this crime?" thundered Brit Featherston, a federal prosecu­tor helping local authorities. 
"I am very sorry from what happened to Mr. Byrd and I've said that from day one. I wanted to speak to the Byrd family per­sonally but I couldn't," Rerry said. 
FBI: Race motivates hate crimes 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Racial prejudice motivated more than half the 7,755 hate crimes committed in 1998 that were reported to the FBI, the bureau said Thursday. 
As in 1997 and 1996, racial prejudice was the most com­mon motivation for hate crimes, accounting for 4,321 incidents in 1998. 
In order of magnitude, there were 1,390 incidents attributed to prejudice over religion, 1,260 over sexual orientation, 754 over ethnic origin, 25 over disabilities and five over multi­ple prejudices. the FBI said. 
The 1998 data come from 10,730 law enforcement agen­cies in 46 states and the District of Columbia, representing 80 percent of the nation's popula­tion. 
In 1997, there were 8,049 hate crime incidents, of which 4,710 were racially motivated. But the 1997 data came from 11,211 law enforcement agen­cies in 48 states and the District of Columbia, representing 83 percent of the population. 
There were nearly 300 fewer incidents in 1998 than 1997, but there were nearly 500 fewer police agencies reporting in 1998. 
Because the number of agen­cies reporting varies under the voluntary system established by the Hate Crimes Statistics Act of 1990, officials caution against drawing conclusions about trends in hate crime vol­umes between years. 
They say the figures provide a rough picture of the general nature of hate crimes. 
In 1998, crimes against peo­ple accounted for 68 percent of the offenses, with intimidation the most frequent hate crime at 38 percent of the total. 
Vandalism and destruction of propertyaccounted for 28 per­cent of all reported offenses, simple assault for 18 percent and aggravated assault for 12 percent. 
Thirteen people were mur­dered in 1998 hate crimes, with eight attributed to race bias and four to bias against sexual ori­entation. 
One murder was motivated by prejudice against ethnic or national origin. 
Of the 9,722 hate crime vic­tims, 80 percent were people and the remainder were busi­nesses, religious organizations or other targets. 
Of total victims, 57 percent were targeted due to race, with bias against blacks, the largest single category, accounting for nearly 38 per­cent of all victims. 
Debt 
continued from page l 
past few days of the Congressional session when the Clinton administration agreed to a deal that would provide tens of billions of dol­lars to the world's poorest countries, OtTenheiser said. 
Entitled the "Heavily Indebted Poor Country Initiative," the agreement should enable the interna­tional debt relief' program to start this year. But Offenheiser stressed the importance of continuing the battle against world debt and poverty. 
"We take solace in the acceptance of this proposal because it is a considerable victory," he said, although he cautioned that more needs to be done. 
The international agreement is based on having wealthy countries including Great Britain, Germany and France, to make contributions to a Trust Fund. This Trust Fund will help cover costs of debt relief from some of the' small banks that loaned money to these underdeveloped nations. But Congress must approve our share if these poor coun­tries are to receive the debt relief they desperately need he said. 
As a result, it is crucial for Congress to return next year and allocate the full amount of money necessary to main­tain the debt relief program, according to Offcnheiser. 
Students can also con­tribute to the debt relief movement in many ways. According to Offenheiser, "This is a social battle to which we all must be com­mitted to get results. Students can influence Congress and aid the efforts by writing letters, staying engaged and keeping in touch to keep this global issue moving forward." 
Medicare pre01iu01s to increase slightly 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Monthly Medicare premiums paid by the elderly and dis­abled would rise slightly as a result of a final agreement between the White House and Congress to pay health care providers billions of dollars more in coming years. 
Preliminary estimates released Thursday by the Congressional Budget Office indicate the deal would cost Medicare's 39 million benefi­ciaries a total of $2.1 billion in increased monthly premiums over the next five years. 
That is expected to mean 
about a $1 a month increase in 
Medicare premiums starting in 
2001, say lawmakers working 
on the legislation. The 2000 premium has already been set at $45.50 a month, unchanged from this year, and it will not change. 
"This is painful," said John Rother, public policy director for the AARP. The nation's largest organization of older adults, however, has agreed that some increased payments to health care providers were needed to protect beneficiaries. 
"Clearly they're getting some assurance that providers will continue to have services avail­able where they were saying they would have to cut back before," Rother said. 
Money raised from Medicare's "Part B" premiums by law must cover a quarter of the total annual cost of doctor's office visits and other outpa­tient care received by all Medicare beneficiaries. 
Think ofus 
as your scliool bus. 
olidays, semester breaks or heading home for your sister's wedding, if going home means catching a plane at Midway or O'Hare, the best way to the airport is United Limo. 
Frequent service, all day from campus gets you there on schedule. And when it's time to hit the books again, we'll pick you up at the airport and bring you back to school. No hassles, no problems. 
For intormauon and schedule consult your travel agent or call 
800-833-5555 
www.busville.com 
I JNITFn I l~AO 
...,. I 'II • ii .......,. ii.iij i ii ""' 
Your Airport Connection, O'Hare & Midway, All Day... Every Day 

Friday, November 19, 1999 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Deaths, beatings 01ight be linked 
By STEVE GUTTERMAN 
Associated Press Writer 
DENVEn 
.:\ new wave of fnar is pass­ing through Denver's homeless community with the discovery of two morn bodies of' tran­sient men less than a week aftcr arrests were made in fivn boating deaths. 
Tho bodios were found Wcd1rnsday after a homeless porsnn spotlcd one of the corpsns in a wnod-c()vered fi1,ld behind Union Station. Dnnvor's main railroad sta­tion. 
Tho unidentifind men were both bnliovncl to ho homolcss. Police Sgt. Tony Lombard said tlw ci rcu rnstanclls "certainly appear to l>o similar" Lo tlrn df'alhs of liv11 hom1ilcss men in thn downtown area since Scptnmbcr. 
l'olicn cannot begin investi­gating tho cases as connected until the must recent are ruled homicirles. l.ombard said. .:\olopsies were uxpected to tak11 a rew days. 
Oltrnr authorities were morn ready to see a connection. defendants are part of a clique 
"The deaths of seven home­police call "mall rats," who less men have left our commu­hang out around Denver's nity in a state of disbelief," busy 16th Street Pedestrian said Mayor Wellington Webb, Mall. who asked U.S . .:\ttornoy Five others have been jailed General Janet Reno to provide on assault charges for nonfa­FBI resources for the investi­tal beatings. gation. Wednesday's discovery has 
Del Maxfield, head of the reignited fears in the down-
Denver  town  area's  
Hcscue Mission, applauded  "They need to [solve and stop lhe crimes]. These  large home­less commu­nity, already  
Webb's request, say­ing the home­ are people we're talking about. It's murder"  on edge after the five killings and at  
lnss murders  least  two  
must  be  Del Maxfield  severe  beat­ 
solved  and  head, Denver Rescue Mission  ings of home­ 

stopped. 
'"They need to do that. because these are people we're talking about. It's murder. It's no differnnt from JonBenet or anyone else," he said, referring to Jon Benet Ramsey, the girl whose slaying two years ago is still unsolved. 
Two men and a 16-year-old boy were charged with first­degree murder last Friday in one of the fatal beatings. The less men. 
The number of homeless seeking shelter at the Oenver Hcscuc Mission every night has risen sharply this fall despite unusually warm temperatures, Maxfield said. 
"You can tell there's a lot of concern now," he said. "First thero were three bodies, then four. then five, and now there are two more. So it's a pretty shocking thing for everybody." 

COORDINATOR OF YOUTH MINISTRY needed to implement a ministry responsive to the spiritual, personal, and social needs of Catholic youth in a suburban, 2500-family parish in Baton Rouge, La. An integral part of this ministry will include recruitment, devel­opment and training ofvolunteer y-0uth workers and collaborative work with a large parish staff consisting ofclergy, religious and lay persons. The ideal candidate will possess a minimum ofthree years experience in working with teenagers, and a degree in theology, youth ministry, pastoral studies, communications, guidance, or the equivalent in education and/or experience. Benefits include medical and disability insurance and retirement plan. Send resume and refer­ences no later than December 15, 1999 to: St. Thomas More Catholic Church, l 1441 Goodwood Blvd., Baton Rouge, La 70815; or FAX us at (225) 275-1407, Attn: Father John Carville. You can also contact us by e-mail at STM02@compuserve.com. 
1000-1001 
~ESIDENT /\SSISTANT /\PPLICATIONS 
available in the Office of Student Affairs 316 Main Building beginning Monday, November 22, 1999 through Friday, January 21,· 2000 
Study: Weekly drink reduces stroke risk 
. Strokes are the third leading cause of death in the U.S. 
By BRIGITTE GREENBERG 
Associated Press Wricer 
An occasional drink with dinner could reduce the risk of having a stroke, according to a new study. 
Researchers found that light to moderate drinkers can lower their risk by about 20 percent compared with teetotalers. The study. which appears in today's issue of the New England .Journal of Medicine, was the biggest ever to examine the link between alcohol and stroke. 
It showed that as little as a single glass of wine or beer per week can significantly reduce stroke risk. The study involved more than 22,000 men, but one of the researchers said the results could also apply to women. 
However, the study's authors stressed that it would be unwise for doctors to advise patients who don't drink to suddenly start or for those who drink small amounts to begin consuming more heavily. 
The study found no added protection from stroke by drinking more than lightly or moderately. 
"Absolutely it has benefits, but it also has harm," said study co-author Julie Buring, an epidemiologist at Harvard-affiliated Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston. 
Researchers warned of liver damage, the dangers of driving while drunk and the risks to fetuses of drinking while pregnant. What's more, there are other ways to reduce stroke risk, such as quitting smoking or lowering blood pressure. 
Numerous studies have 
" shown that modest drinking reduces the risk of heart dis­ease. But until now, the evi­dence of an effect on strokes has been less convincing. 
The American Heart Association estimates that 600,000 people in the United States suffer a stroke each year. It is the third leading cause of death in the U.S., and the leading cause of seri­ous, long-term disability. 
Earlier studies were criti­cized because they simply compared drinkers to non­drinkers. This latest study examined varying levels of alcohol intake. 
It found that between one drink a week and one a day reduces the risk, and the lesser amount was about as good as the higher one. 
There were not enough heavy drinkers in the study to look at the elTects of more than one a day, but tho heart association warns that drink­ing to excess can raisn blood pressure and, in fact, lead to a stroke. 
Researchers attribute alco­hol's benefits to its ability to increase the amount of HDL, or good cholesterol, in the bloodstream. llDL cholesterol helps keep arteries clean. Researchers also say alcohol can break up blood clots. 
The Physicians' Health Study, which began in 1982, studied male doctors between the ages of' 40 and 
84. They were tracked for about 12 years. In all, the study subjects reported 679 strokes. 
Small amounts of alcohol were shown to decrease the risk of ischemic stroke, which is the most common type and is caused by clots that reduce blood 11ow to the brain. Drinking had no effect on the risk of a rare hemor­rhagic stroke. which is caused by sudden bleeding in the brain. 
While Buring said the find­ings may apply to women as well, she stressed that light to moderate alcohol intake for a woman is defined as about one drink per day vs. approximately two drinks per day for a man. Also, research has suggested that drinking may raise the risk of breast cancer in women. 
1999-2000 Season 
Notre Dame Film, Television, and Theatre Presents _.•..:.::-::::nr 
JJ/~~~~;i·~ by Elaitj~1!!:;:i:gltield 
,: Mid;esday, Novemoif ~~;rn;:;30 p.m. ·Thursday, Novemb&t,}$., 4i30 p.m. twFriday, Novemb~.J.'l~i'(.;ttt.:30 p.m. ,. Saturday, NoveJ:tibJf 2(f £:00 p.m. 
SuiltlaJia;;nv;iai~i~~jt!;~~li.m. 
r: . \,/ Reservad:seat$·$9): 
!~r~,~~~!!N!::::l::!::;:::,· 
't •s are availilbi.iicaf'Lafortune Student Center Ticket Office. M ,card and Vw.!=lmers call 631-8128 V ,ur website ····Jitt'ji\\www.nd.edu\--<othweb 
-
--------~-------,r ---------•--...,..---• ---------~ 
page 12 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Friday, November 19, 1999 
House passes $390 billion budget bill 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 
The House approved a $390 billion budget bill Thursday, edging Congress toward wrap­ping up its 
long and contentious year. The final step -Senate approval ­was prov­ing time­consuming 

as several Hastert senators were holding the measure hostage to special interests. 
Capping a year born in the cauldron of President Clinton's impeachment trial, the spent House approved a bipartisan deal including money for new teachers, land purchases and home-district booty for law­makers. 
The package, merging 10 bills and exceeding 2,000 pages, was the product of weeks of negotiation that did not end until nearly midnight Wednesday. Lawmakers had mere hours to examine the nearly foot-tall stack of paper, but approved it by 296-135, with most members of both parties crowing about victories. 
"I think we ended the session on a high note," said Speaker Dennis Hastert, R-lll. 
Clinton won billions for edu­cation, new police officers, tho Middle 
East peace process 
"/ think we ended White House,
and United Nations 
fie!" Byrd shout­
the session on a
dues, and blocked 
ed on the Senate 
several provisions high note." 
floor.
for mining and 
Further
other industries 
Dennis Hastert reflecting the
that the adminis­
Senate's sour
tration said would speaker 
harm the environ­
ment. 
The president gained about $5 billion in year-end negotia­tions. And the Republicans had already added more than $30 billion over last year's totals before bargaining even began. That reflected a GOP calcula­tion that with their party's razor-thin congressional major­ity, they lacked the power to negate many of Clinton's spend­ing requests. 
"We think the end result reflects the president's priori­ties and the American people's priorities," said White House budget chief Jack Lew. 
Republicans boasted of block­ing White House requests for additional spending and tax increases, of limiting abortion activity overseas and of expanding states' flexibility to use federal aid for education and other programs. 
They also said the measure fulfilled their promise to protect Social Security surpluses -a claim Democrats and the Congressional Budget Office rejected. 
De-spite both sides' declara­tions of victory, the bill under­lined a year of gridlock forced by divided government. 
The GOP's chief goal, a $792 billion, 10-year tax cut, was vetoed by Clinton. The presi­dent did not get his proposal for a prescription drug benefit for Medicare recipients. And the parties deadlocked over taking any action that would buttress the solvency of Social Security and Medicare for the oncoming retirement of baby boomers. 
Though the House was poised to go home for the year, the Senate was in a more volatile mood, and its departure was not expected until at least the weekend. 
Midwestern senators oppos­ing prov1s10ns helping Northeastern dairy farmers were threatening procedural delays. And Sen. Robert Byrd, D-W.Va., was still fighting to let coal mines continue dumping rubble into valleys and streams, a proposal the White House was opposing as anti-environ­
mental. 
"Fie on the 
mood, Sen. Max 
Baucus, D­Mont., blocked debate on a stopgap measure to keep agen­cies functioning after midnight because he wanted rural loan guarantees included in lan­guage expanding satellite '(V services. Bui he relented after he was promised a vote on the issue next year. 
The House approved two tem­porary spending bills to keep agencies operating until the budget light ends, one running through next Tuesday and the other -just in case -through Dec. 2. Until now, there have been six stopgap bills since fis­cal 2000 began on Oct. 1. 
Music with your coffee? 
www.lulascafe.com 
the new CD byrecording artist 
andrew jay 
Congress urged to pass trade pact 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
A top Chinese diplomat warned Thursday that the new market-opening U.S.-China trade agreement will become null and void if Congress does not repeal the Jaw that sub­jects China to an annual review of its trade status with the United States. 
The Chinese Embassy's sec­ond ranking diplomat, Liu Xiaoming, also cautioned members of Congress against any attempt to link repeal of the law with approval of a con­troversial proposal to upgrade 
U.S. military ties with Taiwan. 
Liu spoke to reporters after a meeting at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the nation's largest business group. 
China has been assured that under the agreement it con­cluded with the United States on Monday, it will obtain "nor­mal trade relations" status. The accord lays the ground­work for China's entry into the World Trade Organization. 
The agreement gives the United States significant bene­fits in its trade with China but also calls on Congress to over­turn the law that requires law­makers to renew China's low tariff status annually. The Jaw has produced a highly con­tentious annual debate over China each spring on such issues as human rights, reli­gious freedom, Taiwan and other issues. 
If there is no permanent NTR, diplomatic shorthand for normal trade relations, "then there is no WTO," Liu said, adding that all provisions agreed to in the recent negoti­ations will not take effect. 
Liu warned against any link­age by Congress between the trade agreement and the pro­posal to expand security ties links with Taiwan. 
The proposal, if approved, would nullify all the agree­ments the United States and China have entered into on the Taiwan issue over the past 20 years, he added. 
The trade accord is a "win, win, win agreement," he said, good for China, good for the United States and good for the world. 
"China's economic growth depends on an opening of the (trade) system," he said. "It will normalize economic rela­tions (with the United Statesl and stabilize overall rela­tions." 
FCC votes on Internet line decision 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Hoping to accelerate the spread of high-speed home Internet connections, federal regulators voted Thursday to require telephone companies to share their lines with other businesses offering data ser­vices. 
The Federal Communications Commission decision could ulti­mately mean more competition in consumer choices for high­speed Internet service and at lower costs, oflicials said. 
"Prices should decline, ser­vices should improve," declared FCC Commissioner Susan Ness. 
The decision could make it substantially cheaper for 
upstart businesses to compete That means businesses com~ with telephone companies in peting with the local phone providing connections dozens companies must spend about of times faster than today's $20 to $23 for each second 
dial-up  line. And  cus­ 
modems.  tomers  who  
Currently, local telephone companies,  "Prices should decline. services  want different providers for their voice and  
such as the regional Bells  should improve. "  data need  services to have  
and GTE, can offer high-speed  Susan Ness  two lines home.  at  
Internet  ser­ FCC commissioner  Newer  data  
vices  to  sub­ companies say  
scribers on the  the FCC deci­ 

same lines they provide their sion will help put them on a regular voice service. competitive equul footing. 
But for outside businesses to "The' FCC is really going·to come in and sell Internet con­unleash all the benefits of com­nections to a consumer, they petition for residential users," must buy a second line from said Michael Olsen, deputy gen­the telephone company into the eral counsel of NorthPoint consumer's home. Communications. 
Saint Ma~s Collegg 
NOTRE DAME • INDIANA 
27th Annual 
LONDO~ S"l.Jl\,fl\,f_ER PROGRAM 

Courses offered in History, Art, Sociology. 
For further information contact: 
Professor David Stefancic 54 Madeleva Hall, Room 347 Saint Mary's College Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 284-4462 e-mail: dstefanc@saintmarys.edu Fax: London Summer Program (219) 284-4866 
Friday, November 19, 1999 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 13 
TURKEY 
World leaders rebuke Yeltsin 
Associated Press 
ISTANBUL 
l'rnsidcnt Cli11to11 and other world ltmdcrs chastisNJ Roris YHllsin on Thursday for over­soeing "an nndlcss cyclB of vio­ln 11 co" in Che(' h n ya prompting a n g r y words l'rom Llm Hussian lnadnr but also a con­cession. lie agrPnd to an outsidP. rP.view of llw rebnllious region. 
"You hav11 no right to criticize Hussia for Chechnya," Yeltsin shot back at a chorus of rebuke l'rom presidents and prim11 min­istPrs at a summit ol' the 54­nation Organization for s,,curity and Coopcration in I•:uropP (OSCE). lfojecling calls for political mediation rather I.ban a military scilution, YelLsin said, "Timm will be no negotia­tions with bandits and murder­nrs." 
c;aLlrnr!'d around an oval table, Clinton was joined by ollwr Wnstnrn d1ids of' state in rPproarhing Y!!ilsin !'or "an Pricl!csss i:yclo of violnnce" against civilians in Clrnclmya. Fr1\11ch l'nisidnnl .lacquns Chirac callnd Hussia's air and ground assaults "a tragic error." Gnrman Chancollor (;!\rhard Schronder said, "War is 1w way lo diminate terror­
isLo.;." 
Yeltsin brusqely said he was not interestnd in "reproaches or surmonizing" from his col­leagues, and gavn nu indication tlrn criticism would have any nffoct on Hussia's two-month-OSCE mission. 

For his part, Clinton sought to keep fonces mended with Hussia. 
"We have a very good person,tl chemistry," Clinton said later. "but it 
them twice attacked neighbor­ing Oagestan. The militants 
"You have no right to also have 
been blamed
criticize Russia for 
in apartment
Chechnya." bombings that killed about 300 people in
Boris Yeltsin 
Hussia in
Russian president 
September. Clinton said 
Hussia has a 

Brad Metz, C.S.C. • Irish Guard 1992-95 Ordination Date: April 6, 2002 
Can you make this team? 

ANSWER :-;;t;: fHF.C:UI. W 

Fr. Jim King, C.S.C. Fr. Bill Wack, C.S.f.. 
www.nd.edu/-vocation 
ANGUILLA 
Lenny continues to 
cause severe damage 
pier and strewing boats like 
Associated Press 
debris across the beach at the yacht club, some piled on top ol' THE VALLEY each other.
Slowed to a dangerous, Wednesday night, wilh itsunnerving crawl, Hurricane 
winds still a frightening l 35Lenny pounded the Dutch, 
mph. it moved to St. Martin, theFrench and British islands of 
island shared by French St.
the northeast Caribbean on 
Marlin and Dutch St. Maarton
Thursday and left a trail of 
and continund its pounding. ' 
debris and confusion in its 
Ry late Thursday aftHrnoon,wake. 
its winds were at 120 mph and
The late-season storm has 
was threatening a direct hit onkilled at least four people from 
St. Maarten. The storm was
Colombia to Dutch St. Maartcn expected to start a slow movein the northeast Caribbean and 
to the northeast, hammering
rattled nerves throughout the the Dutch
region as it 
island of Saha, 
careened on a 
"We are in a very French St.
zigzag path along 
Barts • and 
a rare west-to­dangerous situation. 
Anguilla, aeast course 
We expect conditions British territo­
before coming to 
to get a lot worse. " ry, according
an abrupt halt off 
to Hobert
St. Maarten. 
Mollnda, a"We are in n 
Dennis Richardson 
meteorologist
very dangerous 
Lt. Gov. of St. Maarten al llrn U.S. 
old military campaign to com­bat separatist rebels in the southern Hussian region. Hussia is locknd in a battle with terrorists who have attacked Moscow and taken American, French, Hritish and Hussian hostages, Yelb,in said. 
Despite his publit; defiance, Yeltsin later qufotly agreed to allow a European official to visit Chechnya. Secretary of State "vtadeleine Albright said OSCE chairman Knut Volleback of Norway would go, although shn did not know when and under what circumstances. 

"I'm not going to nversell this," the secretary said. But she said it was "a good foot in the door" for a more extensive humanitarian assistance. Rut he said Russia would not agree to "political mediation" inside Russian borders. 
Despite their differences, Yeltsin greeted Clinton with a bear hug as they met together for the first time since talks in Ju~e in Germany. Yeltsin urged Clinton to visit Moscow soon but the president made no com­mitmenl. "We will look at our schedule," National Security Adviser Sandy Berger said. 
Yeltsin left Istanbul before Friday's concluding sessions but Berger said "it was not stomping out of the room." 
Hussia launched its latest ~ampaign in Chechnya in early September after militants based 
situation," St. Maarten's Lt. Gov. Dennis Richardson said Thursday. "We expect conditions to get a lot worse." 
Whipping up huge waves, Lenny pounded the island's main port, said a reporter at GVBC Radio. He said the storm was "flinging shipping contain­ers about like toys." Then the telephone connection broke. 
Lenny's winds had powered up to 150 mph on Wednesday when it battered the U.S. Virgin Island of St. Croix for 12 hours, ?tripping roofs, flooding build­ings and roads, tearing away a 
National Hurricane Center in Miami. 
T~e hurricane was unlik<\ly to strike the mainland United Sta~es but could bring heavy surf capable of eroding b<mchns in Florida, hundreds of miles away, said Stacy Stewart al the Ilurricane Centnr. 
Lenny has caused havoc as far away as South America. On Tuesday, it was blamed for the drowning deaths of' two fisher­men off Colombia's Caribbean peninsula, and its relentless rains destroyed half' a coastal village, leaving 540 people homeless. 
didn't stop us from our clear disagreement here." 
The dispute over Chechnya dominated the summit, called lo rnwrite tho chartl~r of the Cold War-om organization to acl faster to prevont conflict, protect human rights and pro­mote democracy. 
Clinton and other leaders decried what they describe as a growing rnfug<rn crisis in Chechnya as civilians flee the fighting. 
After Yeltsin's concession, Hussian Foreign Minister Igor Ivanov said Moscow had not changed its stand significantly and continued to welcome right lo combat violence and terrorism and protect its terri­torial integrity. 
llowcver, ho warned, "If attacks on civilians continue tlrn extremism Hussia is trying lo combat will only intensify" and Russia's sovereignty will be morn and more rejected by ordinary Chochens who arc not part of the terror or the resis­tance." 
Waving his finger at the Hussian president, Clinton praised Yeltsin's bravery in climbing atop a tank in 1991 to thwart a military coup against the last Soviet leader, Mikhail Gorbachev. 
U.N. debates TV's 
influence over peace 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS 
The United Nations convened hundreds of television and broadcast experts Thursday for a two-day conference on the ways TV can bring peace and devel­opment to the world, saying the media can be a galva­nizing force for change. 
But in an opening address, the president of the U.N. General Assembly questioned the pursuit of such a lofty ideal when any message television might bring often remains silent in regions where it is most needed. 
"For the vast majority of the world's population living in abject poverty, even the thought of owning a television set borders on madness," Theo­Ben Gurirab told the confer­ence of about 800 television ~xecutives and policy makers from over 80 countries around the world. 
"Let us face the facts; The best television programming won't mean much if the people who need them the most -the developing world -lack the necessary equipment and logis­tics," he said. 

I le suggested that oven pro­viding a single television set fi.ir every village "could work mirn­~les" by exposing the develop­mg world to educational and outreach programming. And he urged the executives to work with the United Nations to cre­ate broadcasts "that would pro­mote social change and greatly contribute to tho pace of advancement and prosperity." 
The conference was the fourth U.N. World Television Forum, and featured work­shops on themes such as news and educational programing and the role ol' television in development. Panelists includ­ed CNN's Johannesburg bureau chief, Charlayne llunter-Gault, Jean-Pierre Elkabbach of' Europe 1 and Tom Brokaw of America's NHC network. 
In his remarks, the chairman of Italian media giant HAI, Roberto Zaccaria, urged the participants lo remember that even in timus of peace, "them ar.? forgottnn wars going on." 
In many cases, war censures the news. During times of peace, we must makP. sure that the news is not the one to cen­sor the 'forgotten' wars," he said. 
Secretary-General Kofi Annan spoke to the confor­ence -by satellite television from Istanbul -urging the participants to consider "pre­ven live journalism," to not ouly report on forgotten wars, but conflicts that haven't yet turned into wars. 
page 14 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, November 19, 1999 

Let the Word of Christ, rich as it is, dwell in you ... 
Col. 3:16 
Let God's word live in your heart just a little longer each week with a subscription to Reflections on Scripture. 
Each week when the university is in session you will receive a copy of the previous Sunday's homilies from the Basilica of the Sacred Heart on Notre Dame's campus. 
Enjoy the reflections of residence hall rectors, priest-professors, university administrators and visiting priests at Notre Dame. 
Perfect for your personal prayer, small group discussion, scripture study, or to spark discussion among family members and friends. Can you think of anyone who n1ight enjoy Reflections on Scripture as a Christmas gift? 
FOR MORE INFORMATION, SEND IN THE FORM BELOW, CALL (219)631-7800 OR E-MAIL: HARWELL, 1@ND.EDU. 
X--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
-----~. ----p-a-gc_l_5______,1 
hiday, November 19, 1999 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 
Gun-related death count drops 
A.,sociated Press 
ATLANTA 
Gun dPaths in the United States dropped 21 porcent between 1993 and 1997 to the lowest levnl in morn than :{O years, and firnarm-relatcd injuries fell 41 1rnrcP.nt, the government said 
Thursday. 
Experts cited such masons as tougher gun control laws, a booming economy, bettnr police work and gun safety courses. 
The study hy the Centers for Discasr, Control and l'rnvr,ntion looked al all gunshot wounds niported at emergency rooms, wlrnllwr they were intentional, accidnntal or self-inllicied. 
Thn number of fatalities droppr.d from 39,595 -15 .4 gun deaths per 100,000 pr,ople ­in I9CJ'.~. to 32,436-12.1 per 100,000-in 1997. 
The rate "is the lowest it's br,en since the mid 60s," said J. Loe Anrrnst, a CDC statistician. 
"This progress is really encour­aging and says that joint preven­tion efforts of public hr.alth ofli­cials, legislators and law enforce­ment should continue." 
The drop was not unexpected: Homicide rates in the 1990s have fallen to Gun deaths 
levels not seen 1993: 39,595 since the 
1997: 
32,436
1960s, and about two-thirds of all Nonfatal 
homicides committed shootings involve guns. 
1993: 104,390
Moreover, 
64,207
nonfatal shoot-1997: ings fell from 104,390 to 64,207 in the same period, or from 40.5 per 100,000 to 24.0. 
Bill Manown, spokesman for the NRA, said the numbers prove that more gun laws aren't need­ed; the laws on the books need to be lmforced. 
"It is a fact that this substan­tial drop in gun violence directly correlated to a big increase in gun enforcement by police," said Lawrence Sherman, a University of Pennsylvania professor who has studied gun policy. "Police were not treating guns in a pre­ventive sense prior to 1993 and now they are." 
Some experts also credit a strong economy that has helped reduce overall crime and suicide attempts. Margaret Zahn, a North Carolina Stale University criminology professor, said pros­perity has also allowed govern­ments to spend more on services that prevent gun violence, such as domestic-violence shelters and youth recreation programs. 
The CDC also listed such possi­ble factors as an aging popula­tion, increased gun safety mea­sures and the waning of the crack trade. 
Gun control advocates said they are encouraged, but even so, poinld out an average of 265 people a day were shot in 1997. 
If our delicious, flame-broiled double cheeseburger were any bigger, we'd need to buy more ad space. 

Nothing beats our big, juicy Double Cheeseburger. It's got the great taste offlame broiling and has 75% more beefthan McDonald's,., Cheeseburger. 
(Price and participation may vary.) 
· The HUddle -LaFortune Student Center 
.. 
It just tastes better. 
101998 Burger King Corporation. Burger King Corporation 1s the exclusive licen_see ot the Bun HAives logo trademark. McDonald's Is a registered trademark ot the McDonald s Corporation. 
-~~-·----· --·-· ----~­
Survey:Young 
voters in trouble 
the basic level is supposed
Associated Press 
to identify the basics of how American democracy works and know that theWASHINGTON ideas come from the Bill ofOne-third of high school Rights, the Declaration of
seniors -many of them 
Independence and the
old enough to vote in next Constitution.
year's elections -lack 
The 12th graders should even a basic understand­show they can understand
ing of how American gov­
-as well as identify ­
ernment is run, a national 
those fundamentals. 
test suggests. 
Younger children, 4th
Just 26 percent of high graders, were asked morn
school seniors are consid­
rudimentary questions
ered well versed enough in such as why we have lawscivics education lo make 
and what hapµens when
reasonable, informed 
people break them.
choices at the polls, say Like the high schooleducators who released on 
seniors, about one-third ofThursdav the n~sults of the 
fourth graders and eighth1998 national test of gov­graders performed below ernment and civics educa­basic levels, meaning
tion. 
there arc serious gaps in"What these young vot­
their knowledge and abili­
ers know and don't know 
ties.
about civics and govern­Among the test findingsment will have an impact were that fewer than half on all of us," said Diane 
of 12th
Ravitch, a 
graders
chief education 
"What these young knew the
researcher and 
president
former Bush voters know and 
and the
administration don't know about 
S t a t e
education offi­civics and Departmentcial. Ravitch, 
have more
who sits on the government will 
authority
board of the have an impact on 
over foreign
test givets, 
all ofus." policy than
said the test 
Congress or
results are a the courts;
warning of the Diane Ravitch 
36 percent
serious lack in 
education researcher knew the
American civics educa­tion. "We cannot be con­tent when so many young voters are so poorly pre­pared," she said. 
The test, called the National Assessment of Educational Progress, is administered by a nation­wide group established by Congress. The test is given roughly every two years to a nationwide sample of children in three grade levels in core subjects such as math and reading. In recent years, subjects such as the arts, writing and civics have been added. 
The last civics test was given in 1988, but cannot be compared with this one because of major content changes. 
The new civics test ­which differed by grade level -was given in 1998 to nationally representa­tive samples totaling 22,000 fourth, eighth and 12th graders in public and private schools. 
Officials said no state­by-state data was collected aiid that 4.5 percent of test takers initially chosen were excludHd because they were special educa­tion stud<mts or had limit­ed English skills. About 2 percent more received accommodations such as extra time to take the test. Critics of the tests contend that exceptions such as these can skew a national reading of all children's skills. 
The test is generally the only adequate way to com­pare student progress nationwide, because states' own tests may vary significntly. Furthermore, schools are not required to participate in the national testing. 
According to test giv0rs, an eighth-grade child at 
Supreme 
Court used the Constitution's 14th Amendment to invalidate state laws that segregate public schools; only 9 per­cent were able to indentify two ways democratic soci­ety benefits from the active participation of its citizens. 
In eighth-grade testing, 81 percent identified Martin Luther King as someone concerned about the injustice of segregation laws. Only 6 percent could describe two ways coun­tries benefit from having a constitution. 
At the fourth-grade level, 74 percent know that in the United States, laws must be applied to everyone equally, but just 15 percent could name two sorvices the govr.rn­ment pays for with the taxes it collects. 
States and school dis­tricts lack sufficient requirements necessary for an adequato civics education, said Charles Quigley, executive dirnctor of the C:enter l'or Civic Education, a Calabasas, Calif., group that promotes civics courses in schools. · "The vast majority lot' stude11tsl are either not being taught civics and government at all or they are being taught too little, too late, and inadequato­ly," Quigley said, "Under these conditions, you can hardly expect them to do well on such a lost." 
Tho questions were mul­tiple-choice or opc11-end1id and written by the Educational Tosting Service, which is the same organization that writes and administnrs standard­ized college ontranco exams. Tlw questions wore t.hnn upprovcd by tho 
bipartisan board that runs 
th11 tosls. 
VIEWPOINT 
page 16 
THE OBSERVER 
{ht luiUpmdtnt, Daii1 Nrw,paptr &r:,ing Notre Dame -dS11i1u Mary's 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Michelle Krupa 
MANAGING EDJTOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
M. Shannon Ryan  David Rogero  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  
Laura Petelle  

Nf;\l;'S EDITOR: Tim Logan VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughen SPORTS EDITOR: Brian Kessler 
SCENE EDITOR: Michael Vanegas SAINT MA.Ry's EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Dalum 
AoVFRTISING MANAGER: Bryan Lutz 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Bret Huelat SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kushro 
Car,; rROLLER: Timothy Lane GRAPHICS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-747 I FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVFRTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observer@daiwin.cc.n<l.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF.. ......................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE.......................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.............. ..................................631-5303 obscrver.viewpoint. l@nd.edu. SPORTS.................... ...................................631-4543 
ob,erver.sporrs. l@nd.edu SCENE.. .....................................................631-4 540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S............................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire ar httpilohserver nd.edu for daily updates of campus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as canoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for
weather for up-ro-th.e 
weekly srudenr reviews
minute forecasts 
online features for spe­
advertise for policies 
and rates of print ads 
cial campus coverage 
about The Observer 
archives to search for 
to meet the editors and 
articles published after 
staff
August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and onlrne by the students ofthe University of Notre [)ame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either instinuion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigne<l editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors anJ nor necessarilJ' those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom regarding Observer policies should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefMichelle Krupa. 
DILBERT 

OTHE BSERVER Friday, November 19, 1999 

Pace of life allows no room for study 
r---:::::====-===:::::::--7 ,,.-.,...-_-:__-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-,---,
E u 
~ I'VE BEEN WATCH-!:
0 V 
® ING YOU THROUGH ; ~ 't'OUR WEB CAM i 
~ m 
~s.. A.ND I DON'T ~ THINK YOU 'RE ~ WORKING HARD ~ 
E 0 
·•
(,) => 
t: 
G) ~ 
.c .. 
~ ~ 
~ 
Of course, worrying about next semes­ter's classes takes us right up to Thanksgiving week, which as a whole is a wash. Some people are even going home the Friday before Thanksgiving. Even if there are classes Thanksgiving week, turkeys and family reunions are foremost on our minds. 
Then, we return from Thanksgiving. Now it's time to buckle down. In reality, however, the secular Christmas season has begun. (Isn't it ironic that the secu­lar Christmas season ends with the Jan. 1 sales and then the winter depression hits, whereas the Christian Christmas season doesn't actually begin until Dec. 25 and takes us well into January? I bet it would be psychologically healthier, and of course spiritually healthier, to live according to Christian standards on this one. What better way to deal with the dead of winter?) Finals, given all the hustle and bustle of early December, become nothing more than a blip on our radar screen. 
So we all take a month-long Christmas break. At the beginning of the break, we tell ourselves that during that period we will review and read all of those things we failed to review and read during the semester. We will even get a jump start on what is coming up next semester. Unfortunately, that usually turns out to be a pipe dream. 
Jan. 15 rolls around, and it's time to get back to school. As in the first semes­ter, it takes a week or two to settle down after the break, which brings us to the dreaded month of February. Outside of Valentine's Day, there are few distrac­tions. So, we can all plan on two or three weeks in February in which classes are foremost on our mind. 
Then March arrives. With March 
SCOTT ADAMS 
WELL, IT WASN'T 
MUCH Of A FIRE WALL. I'M USING YOUR MAIL SERVER TO 5PAM MY MAH­
'"""'-----.....,.,i...::::.....i,.,___~ 1..........._.=-.=....--i;:.i..;__....__ 
As DART season and Thanksgiving approach, we can all start looking for­ward to the two weeks in February when we will actually be able to concen­trate on our acade­mic work. These 
Jeff Langan
days, with all the breaks and activities that take place dur­
Lula's
ing each semester, it is difficult to actually Journal have the classes we are actually taking foremost on our mind. 
Nobody works in September. Summer vacation just ended. We spend about two weeks talking about the summer, set­tling into classes and getting into the new football season. By mid-September to early October, the football season is in full swing, and we are already looking forward to Pall Break and whatever that might bring. Along the way, we have to write a paper or two and take a mid­term or two. but these are not important activities -they are blips on the screen compared with the parties, the job inter­views, the dances and the clubs. 
Of course, after Fall Break. you might say, we can really concentrate on class­es. Not so fast! It takes a week to recov­er from Fall Break. Moreover, late October and early November provide important other diversions on top of the parties, the dances, the football games, etc. Everybody spends lots of time plan­ning their classes for next semester. Ironically, we haven't even spent much time thinking about the ones we are cur­rently taking, and we already start scheming about what to take next. As if concentrating too much on current classes would lead to serious mental dis­orders. 

comes melting snow, spring break and March Madness. Classes soon become another blip on the radar. After spring break, we get to DART again (see above) and make room picks for next year. That takes us to mid-April, which of course also takes us to Easter. 
After Easter, we are usually so close to the end of classes that nobody really takes finals seriously. Yes, we take them and everyone gets frantic over them. loses sleep, drinks too much caffeine, etc.. but at bottom. that's just a show. What's really on everybody's mind is getting home, getting to that intnnship, getting to those travels or getting to that service project. 
This is a problem because we spend the hours, days, weeks and months of our lives as students dreaming about and doing everything else but what is the most important thing in the present -getting a liberal education. 
The current pace of life leads us to waste our time, to never really get out of our education what we should get out of it. It sets a dangerous pattern for living life because we will always find our-. selves unhappy, anticipating that change, that move in the future that will set everything right. Or we will always look back on our past. regretting the time that was wasted, the time that we let slip by. Is our time here more than a bunch of activity interrupted by a two­week period of a chance to study? 
Jeff Langan is a graduate student in the government department. His column appears every other Friday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"An alcoholic is someone you don't like who drinks as much as you do." 
Dylan Thomas American poet 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE Frid:iy, November l 9, I 999 BSERVER page 17 
Notre Dame needs conscience clause 
In an narlier column, I men­tionml the need for a conscience clausn for athlellis and coaches at Notrn Dame with rngard to rontractcd apparnl. Such a 
claus11, 
plarnd in 
nverv con­
traci with 
an apparnl 
manul'ac­
turnr, would 
rnncl sonw­
thing likn tlw follow­ing: "If a c·oad1 or ath lutn af'Lllr carel'ul Pxamination and dis­c1ffnnwnt cannot in go!ld conscience wear tlrn ofli­cially contractPd apparel. he or slw may wear a reasonabln, situ­ationally appropriatn altcrna­tivn." My concern that tlwr1i be such a clause has arisen from rdlnclion on the problem of the working conditions or those who manul'acturn the apparel and the rnrognition that these conditions may providn problems of con­sdnnc11 for a coach or athlete. I say this without making specilic judgments about Adidas or Champion companies at the pre­sent time~ and without anticipat­ing making a ,wgative judgmnnt in tlrn future. 
Tlw cuse for such a conscience rlausn rnsts 011 three points. The first concerns tlw primacy of' conscilmce in the moral life. A traditional way of articulating this primacy is through the case of thti ignorant conscience: It is better that a pnrson of erring conscience follow the dictates of that conscience than for that (Hffson to do llrn objectively right thing when he or she thinks it is wrong. It is best that the person do what Im or she thinks is good or right. Thomas Aquinas dis­cusses Urn point by saying that llrn will "at variance with rea­son, whethnr right or erring. is always evil." 
Mon• rt•ctmtly. the Second Vatican Council sptmks of' con­sciencn as our "most secret core and sanctuary," whern WH am alorw with (iod," who summons us lo "do good and avoid evil." To obny one ·s conscience, "is the very dignity ol' man; according to it lw will bt• judged." This dons not mnan that what our con­science tdls us is always right, only that it should bn obey!id. \\'hilti conscinncn "frequently errs from invincible ignorancn without losing its dignity," if' wn ignorn our own considered judg­mnnts of what is good and evil, we cut at the 1:orn of th11 moral lifo. 
Sonw thinkors arid the qualili­er that it is bdtcr that the per­son lw coercnd lo do what is judged (by otlwrs) to Im right in casns where following tlrn erring cons(·innco would lead to "scan­dal," that is, would bring shame upon the pPrsnn and lhc Church. I will return lo this. 
Tho sncond poi11 l is t}w se(:­ond ary or instrunwntal naturn of our licnnsne's relationship lo sport. This is not to say that con­tracting with tlrn apparel compa­nirn, do1is not have significant bnnclit for our sports teams ­for instance, allowing us to hire a high-p()wered coach with the incentive that ho or she can draw non-salary income from such contracts. It is simply to pC1int up the. fact that such money is not intrinsic to the per­formance of the sport. At best, the income from such contracts is what is called an "extrinsic good." Moreover. not wearing the apparel of a particular com­pany can hardly be considered a scandal. 

In cases where tlrnrc is conflict between what is intrinsically good and what is instrumental. the former ought to be allowed lo take precedence. Moreover, l am tolrl that Notre Dame allowed Pat Garrity to wear Nike shoes {with the swoosh covered) for reasons or comfort. If we can allow alternatives for comfort, it seems that we can allow alterna­tives for conscience. 
The third point is that a legally explicit conscience clause will help avoid scandal. Earlier in the semester, James Keady spoke at Notre Dame. He argues that St. John's University forced him to resign as assistant soccer coach when he refused to wear Nike apparel. St. John's counters that it did not. The parties went beyond disagreement to calling each other untruthful. Without judging who has tho story right, it can be viewed as a scandal whenever members of the Body of Christ call each other liars. A conscience clause would have avoided this situation. 
Analogy with the question of conscience regarding war can further clarify what is at stake. As late as 1956, Pope Pius XII said that lay Catholics could not be conscientious objectors; war is too grave a matter to leave up to individual conscience. The Second Vatican Council changed this tn allow for conscientious objection -that is, the legal recognition of the objection to all wars. Since then, the Church has been pressing for legal recogni­tion of "selective conscientious objection": the objection on "just war theory" grounds that some wars may be just, but the one in question is not. Without such legal rec()gnition, selective con­scientious objectors are treated as criminals. 
An athlete or coach could be an nconomic selective conscien­tious objector: While affirming the market economy in general, he or she may still object to the specific practices of a particular company. Without thn legal recognition of this vi11w. such a person is left to the whims of his or her coach or athlntic director. 
Pflrhaps even more significant­ly. no such conscience clause would communicate to the world that our univrrsity rrgards rela­tions with the apparel compa­nies to be a matter more grave than war. 
Todd David Whitmore is the dirPctor ofthP program in Catholic social tradition and an associate professor in theology. Itis column appears ever.11 olher Friday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not nPce.11sarily Ihose ofThe 01,server. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Doherty, dumb freshmen and dining hall activism 
Unlike most letters to the editor, I will not was used t.o print out the llyers that I used for try to use big words in an attempt to make a napkin in the dining hall last night? My sug­myself look smart in front of my fellow class-gestion is to take that money and buy those mates. Instead I'll get right to it. I have three poor people food instead of worrying about reasons for writing: snatching my half-eaten apple or muffin. 
1) Freshmen: STOP WRITING LETTERS TO When I go to the dining hall, I generally take THE EDITOR. You are FRESHMEN. Read the four or five plates of food in the hopes that letters of people who have been on campus one of them will have something edible on 
long enough to know where the bathrooms are in the classroom buildings. While you are at it, learn when not to start the wave at football games. Hint: Unless we have a higher number than the other team on the score­board, there is no rea­son lo do the wave. 
2) Biology depart­menl: Clone a football version of basketball coach Matt Doherty. If 
the athletic department wants to see an example of the type of person who should be leading our football team, they should look no further than one of the other offices in the 
& 
JACC. Doherty earns the respect of his players simply by demanding the effort that the fans deserve to see. If this were the case with the football coaching staff, we would not be hang­ing on the possibilities of playing in a bowl game named after an Internet site. 
3) Clean Plate People: How much money 
------.... it. The way I see it, if I won't eat it,Y they won't either.-f' ""-Also, who are you kidding 
~ -61-when you say, "The food we e didn't eat or touch could h have fed a hungry person 
in South Bend?" 
Correction: The food we do not touch is served to us the next day with a different name, and please don't fool your­
self into thinking that ' the cost of a meal plan will suddenly go down next year either. The costI,~-./ofthu meal plan will go up 
/.next year regardless of whether or not I grab a burger 
and a taco tomorrow as a backup plan just in case the Shepherd's Pie doesn't quite do it for me. 
Blake Kirkman Sophomore Keenan Hall November 17, 1999 
A message for the players 
Tomorrow's game is your last game at Notre Dame this year and the last game forev­er for the seniors. Stop and think about it: You will never again play at the place that you have given yourself to -your blood, sweat and tears, yes your all -for four years of your life! You have worked so hard, so incred­ibly hard. for so long that it is unthinkable to leave any shadow of a doubt in your mind that you did all of that for nothing -to simply walk away at the end when it matters most. This game will last only one hour on the game clock, but the memory of it -good or bad ­will never be erased for as long as you breathe. 
To give less than 200 percent on the field will invite your own conscience to replay this game with Boston College over and over again throughout the coming years like a beating drum with the question droning on and on: Was I the one who let my teammates down? If I had pushed myself just a little bit harder, would we have won that game? 
What difference does it make? It's only one game, isn't it? Well, for one thing, it is Senior Day, and for the seniors, this is it. The culmi­nation of four years: It's like the stone in a ring -one day. the centerpoint of a entire career. that reflects every other game and every other day since you committed to come here -all rolled into one. Yes, the word is committed because you chose Notre Dame, and when you did, you committed to laying it all on the Hirn right here and nowhere else. 
Maybe it has been better than you ever imagined; for some I know that is true. Perhaps it has been a mixed blessing, as life so often is. But either way, this is your family (even families have squabbles). and this is you -you and Notre Dame will be entwined for­ever! 
It is important to go out on a high note ­for the seniors, for each other and because it is the right thing to do. Any off-the-field or sidelines difticulties are totally irrelevent. Five or 10 years from now. no one will remember much, if' any, of that. They will simply say: "That was a great game," or "You guys stunk that day." In the Notre Dame spirit, it is much more important to leavo zero in your tank at the end of the game than to win the game. But you know that if the first is true, the win will be there. 
Everyone -friend or foe -has said of this team: "They play with incredible heart; they will not quit. You can never count them out!" I am a writer, and I wanted to write about this team this year. At first, it was because they might win more than the media expected. but then it was the story of a team with amazing guts and pride; the ones who would not quit! A team of strength, a team of character, a team of fighters to the end "what though the odds be great or small." In other words, despite the record, a truly great Notre Dame team, one worthy to take its place with other great Notre Dame teams this century, who were all part of the greatest collegiate tnam ­unquestionably -of this era. 
I still do want to write that of this team because I still believe it to be true, despite the misgivings of some after the Pitt game. I hope that it will be proven in the next two games that you did never quit! But you should not do it for the fans who love you. nor the coaches who have themselves made huge sacrifices, with little to show for it (by Notre Dame stan­dards), but for the seniors and each other. 
You have paid dfiarly with great efforts on and off the field; the students and fans know that. You cannot walk away now; you've spent far too much, and you should collect on that. No, you can't cash in with an National Championship, or even a great record, but you can collect on something more valuable: your HONOR and self-esteem. 
Watch "Rraveheart" again, and ask yourself the same question: Will you someday wish that you could go back onto the field at Notre Dame and give just the smallest bit more that you held back, so that it could have been a Victory? For your sake, 1 hope not. 
As Knute Hockne once said in a halftime speech, "Look you guys, it's football. You've played this before; you know what to do. Now go out there and just beat 'cm!" 
John E. Moore 
Wilbraham, Mass. November 17, I999 
w E 

page 18 
SCENE ASKS 
Seniors: What was the highlight of your four years of ND football? 

"Watching Lou Holtz 's display ofclass as he exited the University he idolized since childhood. That's Notre Dame class." 
Luke Brennan Dillon Hall 
"Beating defending national champion Michigan here at Notre Dame in the first game last year with ESPN on campus. 
Cheryl Berg Welsh Family Hall 


"Being a naive freshman who thought the Notre Dame football team was the most awesome team ever ... 
Kristin Gerber Welsh Family Hall 
"The final game in the old stadium and under Coach Holtz, when ND trounced Rutgers." 
Micah Murphy Keough Hall 


"Senior year. USC Fourth quarter revenge ofthe Irish." 
Katy Soby Welsh Family Hall 
"Having a quarterback that runs with the ball because Ron Powlus never did." 
Lindsay Richardson Le Mans Hall 

Photo polls by MARY CALASH and NELLIE WILLIAMS/The Observer 
e 
N 
OBSERVER 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
Saine Mary's Editor 
Even before the music begins, pre-rehearsal chatter fills the room in an excited harmony of anticipation, nervousness, preparation and expectation. As each one of the 43 members of the Saint Mary's Women's Choir enters the small basement practice room in Moreau Center for the Arts, the chatter escalates until a buzz of excited sopranos and altos chatter nearly uncontrollably. 
The conversation, however, does not circle around harmonies and melodies. new music or even what is to come in the evening's rehearsal. Instead of opening music, women around the room open brochures and keep their folders closed, diligently studying Fodor's travel guide to New York. 
Anxiously awaiting to board the plane that will take the choir to Carnegie Hall in New York, New York, tonight's rehearsal is not average. 
Yet as the piano strikes its first chord, the chatter quickly translates to notes, each voice contributing to a harmony that is the culmina­tion of a semester's worth of practice. 
Culminating a year of anticipation, the Saint Mary's Women's Choir will appear in Carnegie Hall this Sunday at 2 p.m. with the Penn High School Women's Choir and 40 alumnae from Saint Mary's College, under the direction of Women's Choir director Nancy Menk. Invited to the great stage by MidAmerica Productions last fall, the Women's Choir will join Davidson College from North Carolina, directed by for­mer Saint Mary's director Ray Sprague, and a group from Oregon under the direction of Solveig Holmquist in a three-part concert. 
And the saying that the only road to Carnegie Hall is "practice, practice, practice" certainly holds true for the group, who has spent the last three weeks ironing out imperfections, fine­tuning each piece and making sure their New York debut is error-free. 
"We're trying to achieve a level of perfection more so now than ever," said senior soprano Katie Trnka. "We always try to do that, but with this performance, it's more important than ever." 
Perfection means more than just hitting the notes, Trnka explained. 
"[Menk] has been stressing dynamics and making sure that certain sections sing without bravado," she said. "She's been knit-picky about the way the music sounds because she knows we can achieve that level of perfection. The audience is going to be able to see all the hard work we've been doing." 
Yet preparing the groups for the perfor­mance has been nothing out of the ordinary, Menk emphasized. 
"I don't think [preparation! has been any different," Menk said. "There has been an extra level of excitement and more talking about what the women will hear in the orchestra." 
The women will perform several different pieces during the concert, all of which were arranged for women's choirs and women's voices. The choir will perform .Johannes Brahms Ave Maria and sing three different settings of the Magnificat, one composed by Michael Haydn, the second by Ralph Vaughn Williams and a third composed by Libby Larsen. 
Composed for Saint Mary's sesquicentennial anniversary in 1994, the third arrangement vvill hold special meaning for the alumnae and current women's choir, since Larsen will be present for the performance. 
"So often, when you commission a piece, that's the end ofit," Menk said. "This has been published by Oxford University Press, and now we've been able to really give it some national 
D 
Friday, November 19, 1999 


r--------------------­
... 

NSIDER 
O
TI-IE Friday, November 19, 1999 BSERVER Pasquerilla East vs. Welsh Family 


KICK-OFF FORECAST 
overall record: 7-0 

overall record: 5-2 regular season: 5-0 regular season: 3-2 
INSIDE 
game preview....... ....page 2 
vs.
playoffs: 2-0 playoffs: 2-0

rosters.....................page 2 gametime: 11 a.m. E.S.T.
depth charts.............page 2 
weather: Partly cloudy and in the high 40s 
page 2 The Observer . INTERHALL FOOTBALL 1999 Friday, November 19, 1999 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL CHAMPIONSHIP 
PE puts perfect season on line .against Welsh 
. The Whirlwind looks to put damper on the Pyros' fifth straight trip to stadium 
By RACHEL BIBER Sports Writer 
The season-finale showdown f,rn­turing the Whirlwinds of Welsh and the Pyros of Pasquerilla East is sure to be a fierce battle, but only one team will experience the glory of a win inside Notre Dame Stadium ­and both teams want it badly. 
Pasquerilla East rides into this sea­son's final game with a flawless record, remaining undefeated in the regular season and sweeping through the playoffs virtually unscathed. 
There is almost no need to men-Pasquerilla East ~ill create a tremen­dous obstacle for the Whirlwinds. 
Min is putting his team through a routine week of practice in order to get another routine result. 
"We feel pretty good," Min said. "We are just trying to prepare and match up with thoir team." 
If dedication by the coaches is a deciding factor in Sunday's champi­onship, then the Whirlwind definitely has the edge. 
The three Welsh coaches, Dave DePoister, Brian Sweet an<!. Brian Bouton, sacrificed the hair on their heads after their team advanced to the final. 
Sweet even inscribed a "W" on his head while DePoister models an "F," showing their true commitment to the Welsh Family team. 
Loyalty and confidence are things that the Whirlwind coaches are cer­
tainly not lack­
ing. 
tion the obvious "We've been
"I think they are going to 
foundation of the practicing hard
match up well against us. We
Pyro team to time every­quarterback are going to have to play thing," Sweet Elizabeth our best game to walk said. "We are Plummer has pretty pumped
away with a victory. " 
dominated the up about the highlight reels game." 
and has almost Welsh comes single-handedly into Sunday's 
Elizabeth Plummer 
Pasquerilla East quarterback
lead an offense that has been impossible to extinguish. 
But Plummer knows her team has to perform to its best ability on Sunday against Welsh to pull out a win. 
"I think they are going to match up well against us," Plummer said. "We are going to have to play our best game to walk away with a victory." 
Pasquerilla East will play in the stadium for an astonishing fifth straight time, and hopes to come away with its third straight interhall title. 
When Pasquerilla East and Welsh met earlier this season, the Pyros had no trouble handing their opponents a defeat, but Pasquerilla East coach Dong Min is not dismissing the talent that the Whirlwinds have displayed throughout the season. 
"They just have five or six girls that are incredible athletes," Min said. "We'll just have to play as a team." 
The Pyros have not hit a low point all season, playing up to high expec­tations in each game. 
Consistently solid play by 
game after post­
ing a 3-2 regu­
lar-season record 
and notching playoff wins against Badin and top­ranked Breen-Phillips. 
The Whirlwinds need to pull togeth­er and upset this weekend to over­come the favored Pyros. 
If they can string together another impressive offensive showing they will have no problem repeating a suc­cessful performance. 
After scoring 36 points in the play­offs, Welsh left no doubt that it is capable of putting points on the board. 
Whirlwind quarterback and co-cap­tain Katie Rak sees focus and intensi­ty as keys to unlocking a win on Sunday. 
Welsh is also very aware of the imposing Pyro defense that it will have to overcome in order to bring home the championship. 
"Their defense is excellent, but we are going to have to get past their defense sometime," Rak said. 
"If we keep our heads up and play like we've been playing, I think we are going to be all right." 

JEFF HSU!Tha Observer 
Pyro quarterback Elizabeth Plummer goes deep in the pocket during the regu­
lar season. Plummer wlll try to lead PE to Its third straight title Sunday. 

: .' :•· · RIGHTEND 
/;•·•···.·.\KHUI
,... 
. . 1/ . ··• .·•.· ' ' ,· -i;:'..J
....,.\ 
' ' ' ' 
I 
~ 
.··\, . 
CENTER · . RIGHTTACKLE 
·-~!i:i': 
v~~ I.Demeo 
.-...... " .,-­
. ' ...,.. 
. ~·····
:':_ ·_::..,.· ,___--. tt.,, ~'t".: 
. . '
' . 
flANl(ffi 
.··... •.··•.· ·•.••.·ldll' 
·. •· 8. Sample 
,··-,' •,, 
~EN~~ 
·::, '' ·.,,.-:;;..., A. Tallis 


Rosters 

Pasquerilla East 
Sophia Barbados LB Ann Benjamen DB/S Christie Bodnar LB Wendy Brueggeman OL Kristen Carey C Susie Fanning DB Meghan Flaherty LT Stephany Foster DL Meghan Gallagher OL Melissa Gorman RB Laura Grabski OL Kerry Hanley WR Alison Healy LC Robin Horning LB Stacey Leicht WR Gina Locklar DL Brita McCullough DL Molly O'Rourke DB Donata Parillo RC Elizabeth Plummer QB Molly Rost TE Bridget Sample WR Meg Smolinski TE Lindsey Terifay RT Stephanie Trautman DL Laura Tushaus WR Coach: Min Dong Asst. Coaches: Doug Kraft 
Clay Remley 
Welsh Family 
Bethany Barker Lisa Bentley Alex Callan Becky Demeo Stephanie Eden Maria Feilmeyer Colleen Harkins Leanne Guerra Claire Hess Kelly Keegan Sarah Lett Vanessa Lichon Candy Marcum Lauren Muldoon Elizabeth Myers Colleen O'Connor Karli Pederson Michelle Porier Katie Rak Erica Sciola Katie Soby Courtney Selph Allison Tullis Jennifer Yee 
FB OL RB LB RB CB FS CB ·'DL DL RC RC OL CB DL OL DL OL QB CB CB LB DL FS 
Coaches: Casey Bouton Dave DePoister Brian Sweet 

RCB 
0. Parillo RIGHTEND M. O'Rotute 
G. Lodd1r 
LEFTGUARDC. Man:urn · ,-· 
rnr~:BACK _,.·· .•·. ', -,r 
~.·~·-··.··... · 
A.Callan .. 
. '. . OL8
FULLBACK · 
. . ' s. 81
a.a,rur 
RIGHT TACKLE 
L. Terilay
B. McCnllough 
1
T:/ ·, i 
TACKLE ­
he 
LCB 
A. Healy 
3
Friday, November 19,~1;99;;9~:::.::..::...=:==========~n~'he~O~b~ser~ve~r~.-;_I~N~T~E~R~HAL~~L~F~O~O~T~B~AL=L=l=9=9=9==============================p=a=ge== 
MEN'S INTERHALL CHAMPIONSHIP 
Sorin looks for revenge against Knott in clash of opposites 



·RIGHT ENO 
, K. Troillr Lffl GUARO , , • , 
D. uwra~ , . /,.
~ O~AATERBAC~ , • 
2J 
TAILBACK ~· 
M &Ifft 
fULLBAGl\ 
L. Burchell f F1Dor 
s 
Sorin 
Luke Beuerlein Larry Burchett 
Luke Burke 
Pete Camilli Greg Carney Ellis Carson Mike Cisternino Mike Crowe Fred Faber Joe Guntert Keith Kowalczyk Doug Lawrence Pete Leja Tim McDonald Trevor Morris Tony Perez Dan Schaeffer Brent Smith Scott Stender Antoine Tobias Jim Vavriceck 
' ' I 
)~:. '),1 ­
, !,. ., ' \ 
. RIGHTTACKI.E 
/ C.J. Mull'lr 
ilt) 
LEmA~~~~ 
P. RVII 
Rosters 
RCB 
J. Conn 
S. EVlat 
J*S 
TE LB CB OL CB LB DE 
KR/P 
SS/RB 
CB/WR 
FB/LBNG WR/QB C/LB OL DB WR/FSRG QB DE/TE TB OL LB 
KEVIN DALUM/The Observer Juggernaut tailback Pat Virtue runs the ball In Knott's 14-7 win over Sorin during the regular season. The two teams wlll meet In the stadium Sunday. 
QB FB/CB 
CIDT 
RT OUFS OLB DE HB FB/LB OL OLB LG/OLB DT 
ILB TE/DE LB OLB CB SE 
FUCB 
LT/ILB 
Knott 
Looe Baker Bart Bruckert John Cowen Steve Curasco Scott Evans Ed Foy Jose Gonzalez Kevin Heffernan Brandon Landas Terry McElroy Joe Mueller CJ Murray Brian Pawloski Lou Perry Pat Peters Paul Ryan Jonathan Smith Joe Stark Mario Suarez Kyle Trotter Pat Virtue Lee Vyoral Dan Zach 
Coaches: Mike Crowe Coach: Mario Suarez Fred Faber Asst. Coach: Tom Weiler 

. The Juggernaut defense plans to stop Otters' potent attack 
By KEVIN BERCHOU Sports W ricer 
A championship and the bragging rights that go along with it will be on the line this Sunday as the Sorin Otters battle the Knott Juggernauts on the hallowed grounds of Notre Dame Stadium in what looks to be a clash of opposites. 
The matchup pits the Otters potent passing attack and the league's best offense against the Juggernauts' stingy defense, which is arguably interhall's finest. Both squads come into the contest sporting identical 5-1 records, with Knott taking the only head to head meeting by a score of 14-7. That win came in sloppy conditions, with the inclement weather helping to quell Sorin 's lethal air attack. Otters' captain Fred Faber is hoping that Sunday's weather provides for far better playing conditions. 
"The weather hurt our passing game when we first played them," said Faber. "We'll be hoping for a nice day, because then they won't be able to stop us." 
The offense of which the Sorin captain speaks is without doubt the league's finest. Led by quarterback Luke Beuerlein and wide receiver Greg Carney, the Otters have put up huge numbers all year. Beuerlein's exceptional mobility and laser-like accuracy make him an especially valuable commodity. 
Having played brilliantly in postseason wins over Keenan and Siegfried, the Sorin quarterback enters Sunday's title tilt at the top of his game. 
Beuerlein will be looking to air it out early and often, as the Otters will stick with the downfleld passing attack that has brought them so much success. 
Beuerlein will look most often for his favorite target, Camey, who has enjoyed a spoctacular freshman season. Carney has averaged more than one touchdo\.\11 per game. 
His knack for coming down with the ball when surrounded by defenders means BeuerlAin will not hesitate to look for him even in double coverage. The Otters will spread the field early in hopes of freeing up Carney for the big play late. Antoine Tobias, the other half of Sorin's stellar receiving tandem, will be called upon to draw defenders away from Carney. 
With sta.rting running back Faber out of the game with a knee injury, the Otters will once again go with the rushing tan­dem of Mike Crowe and Larry Burchett. Both backs have shown the ability to make the occasional big play, and will add another dangerous dimension to the Otter attack. Knott captain Mario Suarez is understandably leery of Sorin's passing game, but feels his defense is up to the test. 
"Their quarterback is phenomenal," said Suarez. "And that receiver of theirs, Carney, is a freak of nature. We do have the best defense though, and if we shut down Beuerlein, we win. It's that simple." 
Looking to stymie the Otters, who will be making their third consecutive appearance in the league's ultimate game, will be a stingy Juggernaught defense led by an impressive linebacking corps. 
Linebackers Ed Foy, Dan Zach and Joe Mueller will be looking to make Beurelein's day a miserable one, as they will attempt to apply constant pressure. 
The Knott defense also comes into the season's last game on a high, having completely shut down the Fisher attack, blanking them 7-0 in semifinal action. 
Offensively, Knott will be forced to make some adjustments as quarterback Mario Suarez is out with a rib injury. Taking his place will be Brian Pawloski. 
"We've been working on getting him acclimated to the offense all week," noted Suarez. 
Knott runs a very diversified olTense and has the capability to doom its oppo­
-
nent with either the run or the pass. The Juggernaughts will look for running back Pat Virtue and wide receiver Jonathan Smith to make the game-breaking play. 
"They have the league's most balanced attack," said Faber. "Defensively we are just going to make sure that everyone knows their assignment and stays in their lanes. They do a lot of different things. We just have to be ready." 
The Otter defense will be anchored by linebacker Doug Lawrence and defensive end Mike Cisternino, both of whom played well in a semifinal victory over Siegfried. 
John Taggert and Greg Carney are also capable of making the big defensive play. Both captains are extremely confident of their team's chances. 
"If we score twice, it's over," said Faber. "They won't be able to hang with us. We've lost the past two years, and now it's time to get a win. 
"If we shut down Beuerlein, we shut down their whole offense. Carney can't get the ball if we shut the quarterback down," noted Suarez. "I think we can do it." 

NSIDER 
Knott vs. Sorin OBSERVER Friday, November 19, 1999 

KICK•OFF FORECAST 
INSIDE overall record: 5-1 
overall record: .5-r regular season: 3-1 regular season: 3-1
game preview............page 3 
J*S VS.
playoffs: 2-0 playoffs: 2-0

rosters......................page 3 gametime: 12.-30 p.m. E.S.T.
depth charts......... .....page 3 
weather: Partly cloudy and in the 40s 
w E 
ceneN D 
O
THE 
Friday, November 19, 1999 BSERVER page 19 
ig apple 

s Womens Choir takes on the glitz and ing at prestigious Carnegie Hall 

exposurn. It's a special thing that the composer "Other things are good, but this has to be is going to be able to be them to see that." really good," said freshman alto Meghann 
While thu choir has performed all of the Robinson. "I know I'm going to be nervous." pioces they will sing at Carnegie Hall at last For Trnka, the sheer excitement of seeing week's rail concert, the addition of the Penn Carnegie Hall as a performer -not as a mem­lligh School women's choir, alumnae voices, ber of the audience -will be her motivation. and a full orchestra will add dynamic to the "I've been to Carnegie Hall before, but never pt1rforrnance not seen before by many of the to sing," she said. "It's an amazing experience. vocalists. l've never pictured myself on stage there before 
Thn three groups, who have never performed ... getting that rush of performing there ... it's or rehearsfld together going to be something beforn this wooknnd, will "I've been to Carnegie Hall special." 
havn eight hours of com­But for a group of
before. but never to sing ... it's an
bin od rnhearsal lime which several have bnl'oro Sunday's perfor­amazing experience. I've never never entered the Big 
mancc, only one or pictured myselfon stage there Apple, the excitement of 
which that will be with seeing the metropolis
before ... getting that rush of
tho orchestra. will be excitement ''I'll fool bolter about performing there ... its going to enough away from the tlw performancn after st.ago.
be something special." 
I've heard the orches­Planning to visit NBC's tra," Menk said. "I Today show and get
Katie Trnka 
rnhoarsed with the Penn camera time with Katie I ligh School women last senior, soprano Courie and Matt Lauer, wnek, and the alumnae explore the tourist havo b,1en loaming the attractions of the city, music on their own." and perform l'or East Coast alumnae Friday 
Thn addition of the 40 alumnae will add a evening at a reception, the trip will provide sound that is both further developed and pro­"enough free time" for a vacation as well, vides depth to the choir, she said. according to Menk. 
"Tho alumnae voices arc more mature," said But even with the excitement in the Big Menk. "ll will be nice to add that to both the Apple, the group hasn't lost focus of why it's currnnt women's choir and the Penn choir. going. . !The alumnae! can add lower notes and some "All the great musicians have performed depth "to the music." there," said alto Kathy Steinlage. "People tell 
But after a semester ol' rehearsal and antici­me how awesome it is ... l know that I'm going pation, the group will have little to worry about to be nervous." mastering except stifling their nerves, vocalists And with ticket sales going for $68 apiece, said. who wouldn't be? 
SCENE ASKS 
Seniors: What was the 
lowlight of your four 
years of ND football? 

"o-6 for the past six road games. How could it get any worse? Thanks Bob." 
Matt Quirion Dillon Hall 
"Last year when they threw the octopus and fish among the student section.·· 
Angle Little Annunciata Hall 


"Knowing that. unlike Cheerios, we haven't earned our right to be in a bowl.·· 
Kristin Gerber Welsh Family Hall 
"J.J. getting hurt in [the] LSU game." 
Coley Brady off-campus 


"The day marshmallows ­were outlawed. " 
Katy Soby Welsh Family Hall 
"The day Bob Davie became head coach." 
Micah Murphy Keough Hall 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, November 19, 1999 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Football players aid in rescue 
Associated Press 
Some of their classmates were dead or dying. There was no time to think about football. 
When word circulated across the Texas A&M cam­pus Thursday that nine stu­dents were killed and dozens more injured in the collapse of logs stacked for the traditional bonfire before the Texas game, Aggies football players rushed to help. 
"We wanted to assist in any way possible," offensive lineman Semisi Heimuli said. "Several players got together and came out to the site and told the people we could move logs and help in any way possible." 
Shocked by the wave of grief that swept over College Station, A&M coach R.C. Slocum canceled practice, concerned more about the tragedy than the Nov. 26 game against rival No. 6 Texas. 
"The importance of a foot­ball game pales in compari­son," Slocum said. "Our only concern right now is for those students. their fami­lies and friends. All in our Aggie family are in a state of shock." 
Texas A&M sports infor­mation director Alan Cannon said most of the football coaching staff and team went to the accident site. The players did what they could to help the res­cuers, who toiled late into the night trying to clear the jumbled stack of logs that a day earlier stood 40 feet tall. 
"/ think the tragedy and the kids and families are much bigger than the tradition [of the game]." 
Mack Brown Texas football coach 
"Some of the logs were very, very heavy. I'm proud of the rest of the players for coming out and helping. It's a very sad day in Aggieland," Heimuli said. 
"Our students are out­standing and have support­ed us through thick and thin. They've always been there for us. I'm a senior and I've seen some great times and some not so great. But without fail our students have stood readv to help our football team·. It was the least we could do." 
Cannon said the coaching staff will decide Friday when the team will practice again. In Austin. Texas coach Mack Brown declined to discuss the upcoming game, saying it would be inappropriate. 
"If the game was Friday, I d.on't know that anybody could play," Brown said. "For me to think about los­ing a child is very difficult. 
"I think the tragedy and the kids and families are much bigger than the tradi­tion [of the game]." he said. "I don't think it's appropri­ate today to talk about any­thing other than those kids." 
The Longhorns football team had a moment of silence after practice. 
"We said a quick prayer 
for all the families," quar­terback Major Applewhite said. "It shows you how insignificant a football game really is compared to a pre­cious human life." 
Some Texas players and staff will organize a campus blood drive to help the vic­tims, the school said. 
Thursday's accident is likely to spark calls for the bonfire to be abolished. Dallas Cowboys rookie line­backer Oat Nguyen, Texas A&M's career-leading tack­ler and last season's Lombardi Award winner, said the tradition is riveting. 
"You would drive by and see those guys out there working all night long, putting the time and effort into it. It's unbelievable," Nguyen said. "The tradition is so big at that school. People don't really under­stand." 
"Yeah, there's a lot of risk in what they're doing, but now you see that anything can happen. Now you've got to sit back and evaluate and see whether it is worth it." 
Dallas Cowboys special teams coach Joe Avezzano, an assistant coach at A&M from 1985-88, said it's too early to make such a deci­sion. 
"It is a sad day, but in terms of history and tradi­tion, I'm sure very trustwor­thy people will make the right decision," he said. 
Thursday's meet between women's swimming teams from Texas A&M and North Texas was postponed. 
"This has been a very emotional day for every­one." first-year coach Steve Bultman said. 
TENNIS 
Williaills advances· to face Hingis in se01is 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Venus Williams was at ease. It won't be so easy in her next match. 
He Yorkshire terrier "Pete" sat in her lap Thursday night as she calmly answered ques­tions following her 6-4, 7-6 (7­
2) quarterfinal win over Austrian Barbara Schett at the Chase Championships. 
Williams advanced to face Martina Hingis in a rematch of the U.S. Open semifinal, which Hingis won in three sets. 
The lap dog is named after her favorite player, Pete Sampras, and she used Sampras-like serves -the fastest clocked at 116 mph ­to down Schett. 
"I've been working on my serve," said Williams, who had nine aces. "I didn't take any opportunities from myself by losing a serve. I only had one break, but that's OK." 
She'II need to break Ilingis. who dispatched of Mary Pierce, 6-1, 6-2, in a crisp 58 minutes Thursday night. 
Williams, who leads Hingis 3­2 head-to-head this year, knocked off the top-ranked player twice in the past two months, most recently on Hingis' home turf, a 6-3, 6-4 victory at the Swisscom Challenge in Zurich on Oct. 17. 
Williams will need a strong serve and steely nerves to beat Hingis, the winner of 26 career titles and five Grand Slams. Williams admits her Grand Slam singles losses may have hinged more on a lack of psy­chological than physical strength. 
"I've just got to, when it comes down to doing it ... take that step," Williams said. "I r,an't be moving backwards." 
Williams, who hurdled the net at the changeover of the tiebreaker against Schett at 4­2, won the match after a fore­hand crosscourt winner. a wide approach by Schett and a ser­vice winner. She finished with :n winners to B for the sev­enth-seeded Schett. 
The 19-year-old Williams has won six titles this year and improved to No. 3 in the world. With sister Serena, she cap­tured the French and U.S. Open doubles titles. 
This week marks her debut at the Chase Championships, but she hasn't been studying llingis' play on the Madison Square Garden carpet. 
"I didn't see any of' her matches, a little bit when I was passing by," Williams said. "At least when I go out there, I'm going to play well. I'm going to go for it." 
Hingis, the defending cham­pion, has an 8-5 career record against Williams. But this year, she's been winning more in the United States. 
"I've been beating her in the States, she's been beating me in Europe," Hingis said. "So it's kind of funny the way it came out. It's fun playing her because she is one of the best players on the tour right now. So it's always a motivation and challenge to go out there and try to beat her." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for conrenr without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Free CD of cool indie music when  FOR SALE  www.thecommentator.com  
you register at mybytes.com. the  N.D. FOOTBALL TIX  
NOTICES  ultimate website for your college needs.  CALL 271-9412  TICKETS  PERSONAL  www.NDToday.com  
FOR SALE  Babysitter needed for 4-year old,  
THE COPY SHOP  If you can bring package from  N.D. FOOTBALL TIX  WANTED NOTRE DAME FOOT­ HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY  transportation required. Tues. &  
Lafortune Student Center  Phila/S. Jersey to ND, call 272­ CALL 271-9412  BALL TICKETS  RUTH LUCAS  Thurs. 2:45-7:45 or 5:30-7:45 for  
PHONE 631-COPY  2883  271-1526  SOMETIMES FRIENDS AREN'T  Spring semester.  
www.CopyShopND.com  Phone Cards  ON THE BALL ENOUGH TO GET  Experience with children preferred  
Store Hours  669min. $20  FOR SALE  PICTURES TO THE OBSERVER  but not necessary. Call Beth at  
Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm  FOR RENT  243-9361 or 258-4805  BC & Stanford !ix. Best Prices  BY THE DEADLINE. SORRY FOR MISSING THIS PRIME OPPORTU·  254-9060 or email at BLP1975@aol.com.  
Sat: Noon-6:00pm  AM • 232-2378  NITY FOR PUBLIC EMBARRAS- 
Sun: Noon-Midnight  SPRING BREAK 2000  PM · 288-2726  MENT AND SETTLING INSTEAD  I have seen a total of three hours of  
ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE  PANAMA CITY BEACH FLORIDA  FOR THIS CLASSIFIED THAT NO  daylight since Wednesday.  
HOME FORNO-SMC EVENTS.  FROM $149 PER PERSON  ND Football tix  ONE WILL PROBABLY READ.  
- LOST & FOUND  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 243·0658.  SANDPIPER BEACON BEACH RESORT THE "FUN  BOUGHT & SOLD AM • 232-2378  THIS DOESN'T MEAN WE LOVE YOU ANY LESS.  I think I am becoming a bat.  
PLACE"! TIKI BEACH BAR  PM · 288-2726  JEN, BECCA AND KEVY-POOH  I am also overdosing on aspirin.  
LOST:  3 BDRM DUPLEX REMODELED  ENTERTAINMENT BY  
Silver Charm Bracelet  501 EDDY ST. 1 Ml. FROM CAM­ BOOGIE INCORPORATED  FOR SALE  That's not bad is it?  
lost in middle of October  PUS. APPLIANCES, W/0.273-8332  BIKINI CONTESTS MALE HARD  N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS  FAX IT FAST!!I  
High sentimental value.  BODY CONTESTS 3  CALL 271-9412  Sending & Receiving  Hi Mary and Tricia! I hope you have  
x3727 -Megs  Reserve for the 2000 Football  POOLS LAZY RIVER RIDE  at  a fun weekend!  
Season & Special Occasions.  WATER SLIDE  I need one BC ticket  THE COPY SHOP  
Bedroom Suite w/Bath. Private  HUGER BEACHF  Call Holden  Lafortune Student Center  Hi Hiedi! I heard you were from  
WANTED  Entry, 760 SF New Construction above Garage .. Just 30 min. trom  RONT HOT TUB MINI GOLF GIFT SHOP SUITES UP TO 10  634-4788  Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1 FAX IT FAST!!!  East Guam but somehow I do not believe it.  
ND, 1 mi. off US 31S, in county.  PEOPLE  BUYING AND SELLING NOTRE  
FREE TRIPS AND CASH!!/  219-291-3771 moby77@tircom  1 ·B00-488-8828  DAME VS. BOSTON COLLEGE  But I could be wrong.  
SPRING BREAK 2000  WWW.SANDPIPERBEACON.COM  TICKETS.  
StudentCity.com is looking for  WALK TO SCHOOL  CALL 289-8048.  High-Speed Copies,  I have been known to be wrong at  
Highly Motivated Students to pro•  http://mmmrentals.homepage.com  SPRING BREAK 2000  Color Copies, Binding,  times.  
mote Spring Break 2000!  232-2595 or  Cancun. Mazatlan, Acapulco,  4 BC Tickets Needed!  Fax Service, Resumes,  
Organize a small group and travel  mmm.rentals@aol.com  Jamaica & S. Padre  Must be close to field.  Business Cards, Laminating.  Unlike Noah, I do not like 90210.  
FREEl!Top campus reps can earn a  Reliable TWA flights.Biggest  Willing to pay big$.  & a whole lot more  
Free Trip & over $10,000IChoose  Room for rent in private home for  Parties & Best packages.  Call Brad @ 232-3464  at  Or talking to random people on the  
Cancun, Jamaica or Nassau! Book  ND-SMC student. Close to campus  Book by Dec. 1 & SAVE up to  THE COPY SHOP  Internet.  
Trips On-Line.Log In and win FREE  1-616-684-8877.  $2001  Nead as many BC tickets tor as  Lafortune Student Center  
stuff Sign Up Now On Line!  l .800.SURFS.UP  close lo face as possible for friends  Phone 631-COPY  Observer. keep the faith  
www.StudentCity.com  www.studentexpress.com  and family. Help me out. Call Brian  Free Pick-Up & Delivery!  
Free One Bedroom Apartment  FOR SALE  MINT! 46,000 MILES  at 634-3346  Kelly, the week is over!/! Lets have a good weekend, i'II be in the press- 
family with three children seeks  '92 WHITE SATURN 4 DOOR  12 BC GA's. Must sell. Call Dennis  Spring Break 2000 Free Trips &  box.  
tun.energetic student or graduate to  Spring Break SpeciarsrBahamas  SEDAN.STICK.  1-914-654-9200.  Meals.  
live in charming apartment for  Party Cruise S Days $279! Includes  $5,800. 217-7185  Jamaica,Cancun,Bahamas,Barbad  I am not allowed to talk about  
FREE in exchange for mutually  Meals! Awesome  os.Florida.Padre.Book now for Free  90210 on here so i won't mention  
agreeable babysitting responsibili­ Beaches,Nightlife!Cancun &  Color Printer  2 BC tix wanted. Prefer to upgrade  Meals & 2 Free Trips.Book before  just how good it has been the last 2  
ties Fax name.phone# and brief  Jamaica 7 Nights From $399!  HP DeskJet 682C  to GA, will pay for tix &all fees, etc  Dec. 17 for LOWER PRICES!!  weeks. I will say that dylan has  
note describing experience and  Florida$129fs pri ngbreaktravel .com  $65  Bill 247-1914  1800-426-7710  become a man in mu eyes. Dylan  
i11terests to Walker at 233-2308.  1-800-678-6386  Pat 243-5354  www.sunsplashtours.com  and Kelly forever!!!  

FriJay, November 19, 1999 The Obseruer . SPORTS page 21 
=-=-=--=--==-=----=--===-==-====-------=====---=--=====-=-========-==================--=--=--=-=-=-=--=-=-=--=-=-=-=--=-===-~--=-=---=-­
BASEBALL 
Castro, Chavez Illix politics with baseball 
As.,ocmtccl l'res. 
11.1\Vi\NA 
Fidel Castro and Vnnnzuolan l'rnsidPnt 1111~11 Chavez gearnd up for a lhi>ndly lmschall game Thursday as tlwir budding f'rim1dship and 1ww political alliam•p <lNip1•11NI. 
Chavnz pro111is11d Lo pitch for l111• Yntwztrnla sid1\ and Castro was managing tlw Cuban lnnm iu the ganw hdw,~,m retired vnt­t>ran !nu;Pball players from ttw lWO rounlriPS. 
Cuban hm•ig11 Ministor Felipo !'er1•z Hoque said his nation's starting piti:lwr was a "dosoly l,(Uard1•d s1•cri1t," lnading to SJH•1·ulati11n tlw 7:{-y<•ar•old Castro might. lak1~ tlw mound ­at tlm v1wy 11\ast to throw out till' lirst hall. 
C:uha's lPillll will rnunt 011 vnt.­Pra11s of world-and Olympic­l'hampionship Lnams. 
VP1wz1wla's will includt' f'or­nwr major li>agtll'rs Tm1y Armas and Vic Davalillo. 
But bnllind tilt' playful wmpe­tiliou at tlw l.ati11oamerica110 Stadium. a political alliancr. ap1wars to bn liirming. 
Tlw slrnngtlwnlng of llw bond lmtwPnn Castro his Vnnnzunlan itdmirnr ronws as sonrn ol' Cuba's lil's with somr. of its staunchr.st allif's snr.m to br. roofing ovt>r conr.nrns abuut human rights. 
During this wn11k's Ilrnro J\nwrican Summit in 11avana. 
Ernesto Zedillo of Mexico, long Cuba's most faithful f'rinnd in Hu~ Wnstnn I lr.misplrnrn, linked the sovereignty so prized by Castro with the need for democ­racy and human righl-.. 
"Timm cannot be sovHrAign nations without free men and women, nrnn and women who can folly exercise their essential frnedoms: frnedom to think and give opinions, freedom to act and parlidpatn, l'rPe<lom to dis­sent. f'rpedom to d10osc," Zedillo said Tuesday night at thn closing session of the gathering of Spanish and Portuguesn-spBak­ing nations. 
Chavez, who won his coun­lt-y's 1998 elnctions, had a dif­fer<mt Vif'W than Zedillo. 
"D1m10cracv is talked about a lot," Chavez.said in comments carried Thursday by the Cuban Prnnsa Latina news agency. "It was talker! about in V!mnzuela for 40 ynars and it was a big l'an:1•, a bi~ lie. Tim rulnrs worn mask,id, robbing and h<•lraying the pnop!n." 
Spom:lws at the university uni usually formal. restrained affairs. But on Thursday, Castro and Chavez traded jokes and praise, laughing and slapping one anotlrnr on the shoulders like old friends. 
No matter what tho result of the game, Chavez said, "every step and every drop of sweat" would be a contribution toward th~ "tlrn mission of uniting our people morn every day." 
-_-_-_-_-_ -_ -~---_-_-_-____ 
NBA 
Sprewell ready to take on Warriors 
Associated Press 
Spree said he was sorry. Once. OK, twice, maybe three times. Enough so that he's lost count. 
"I think I've apologized over and over again," Lutrell Sprewell said Tuesday. "I don't see why I have to apolo­gize again." 
This was in Denver, four days and 1,200 miles before Spree's current team. New York, was sr.hcduled to stop nff on its swing out West and b(1at up his old one, Golden StatP. Games against the Jazz in Utah and the Suns in Phoenix were sandwiclrnd in between, but they wt~rc just that -games, not vendettas. 
The Warriors were different. Spree wants a bite out of tbem, hu wants to "crush" them. 
''I'd just love it," he said, "if wr~ just killed them." 
Nearly two years al'ter he grabbed the coach by the windpipe and threatened to kill him, after being drummed oui of' the NBA and then ordered back in, after choking his own career on one coast and resuscitating it on the other, Sprnwcl! is coming back to Golden State, his victory nearly complete. 
All that remains is for him to drop 30 or so points on the Warriors in a lopsided win, to remind everybody from coach 
P.J. Car!esimo to general manager Garry St. Jean to 
owner Chris Cohan why they 
put up with so much grief in 
the first place. 
And to remind the organiza­tion that powerless as it seemed when arbitrator John Feerick reinstated Sprewell in March, 1998, they wield even less power now.' They can't even force an apology from Spree. Nobody can. 
Not his old coach, his new one, or even the Madison Square Garden suits who sign his hefty new paychecks. They couldn't get a straight answer from Spree on why ho didn't show up for training camp on time. Ditto for NBA commis­sioner David Stern. But that's not the worst ol' it. 
With each passing day, wilh every additional minute of' face time, Sprewell argues for a new version of events, one that blurs fact and fiction a lit­tle bit more. The only thing sports fans revile more than villains are losers, and Sprewell is shedding both or those skins. 
Everything else about the story looks and sounds dilfor­c nt, too. The Spree who choked Carlesimo is no longer around. lle's been replaced by the one with snapshots from last season's NBA finals, a new attitude and a new $60 million contract. The Spree who comes into our living rooms now through his play and carefully constructed commercials is a fierce com­petitor, not a madman. That Spree didn't jump, he was pushed over the edge by a coach, then left to free-fa!! by an organization that could have saved him. 
"Bitterness, hatred. whatnv­e r you want to call it, it's therr," Sprewell said. "I think limy could've handled it lrnt­ter. It happened behind dosed doors in practice. No one knew. I don't know how it got out. H was an in-house thing and could've stayed that way." 
Carlesirno's side of' thn story gets told less and Jpss. The day Sprewell showed up to make his first public apology a knot of' tnammatns stood in support bnhind him. Carlesimo k,rnw limn the morp points he scored with tlrn pub­lic, the less chancn he had of hanging onto his credibility among players in the lnague. 
Asked about Sprew<•ll's recent remarks, Carlnsimo passed on thl' opportunity to nispond one morn time, "T!w last thing I want to do is rnvis­it something that lrnpp1~nnd a couple of years ago." 
The jury may still bo out on Carlesimo's in-your-face approach to his work, but tlw results am in. i\nd al'tPr two losing seasons, hn will Im lucky to see one more in Golden State through to the end. After that, the consensus is that he'll call in some chits and wind up working in televi­sion. There, he'll be remem­bered less as the guy who took Seton Hall to a Final Four once, or Portland to the NBA playoffs several times, than the guy Sprewell choked in a lit of rage. 
$10 per couple 
$5 per individual 
Free T-shirt lor 1st 300 at Union .ftati.... 
Wednesday, December 8 last.day to buy tickets-Decem.t,.er ~; 
... 
Buy tickets at Lafortune Information Desk 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, November 19, 1999 
NFL 
Brown, Carter set for battle on field 
Associated Press 
DENVER 
After seven seasons of exchanging harsh words, icy glares and taunting gestures with Dale Carter, wide receiv­er Tim Brown knows what to expect from his matchups with the combative Denver Broncos cornerback. 
"They're always nasty," Brown said Thursday as the Oakland Raiders prepared for their Monday night game against Denver. 
"Like I told him after the last game, 'You know you play nasty. I've got to play nasty mainly to protect myself out there.' Those shots to the back of the legs that he gives guys is something that hopefully the league is going to look at next year." 
Hearing complaints about his aggressive play is nothing new for Carter, who has a rep­utation for jarring tackles that belie his 6-foot-1, 188-pound frame. 
Though legal, Carter's hits sometimes connect with an opponent's knee, the back of the leg or the helmet, prompt­ing accusations of cheap shots and headhunting. 
"Whatever, man," Carter said. " If I do [hit from behind], oh well. I'm just play­
.... 
ing football, going 11 0 per­cent. Whatever somebody has to say about me don't even matter, man." 
Chances are good that Brown and Carter will have more to say to each other Monday night when the Raiders (5-4) try to end a four­game losing streak to the Broncos (3-7). 
The two tangled in Oakland six weeks ago, with the most noticeable confrontation com­ing after Brown flipped the ball toward Carter's head near the r.nd of Denver's 16-13 vic­tory. 
Brown said the move was unintentional. but it would explain the mind game that goes on between the two 
-
perennial Pro Bowl players. 
"I don't necessarily consider him a dirty player, but I think you can get him to the point where he can play dirty," Brown said. "If you make a couple of plays on him, or you get to talking a little trash to him, I think he'll take a shot at you. He'll go headhunting on you every once in a while." 
Carter's reputation for rule­bending tactics are familiar to the Broncos, who signed him to a four-year, $22.8 million contract in the offseason. 
In 1996, Carter lined up as a wide receiver in the fourth quarter of a 34-7 Denver vic­tory over Kansas City and pro­ceeded to throw a meaningless block at the knees of Broncos cornerback Lionel Washington. 
As Washington remained on the ground after thfl hit, Carter laughed and told the Broncos to get their teammate off the field. Washington missed the next two games with a partially torn knee liga­
ment,  but Carter  was  not  
fined.  
While  not  defending  his  

ruthless play three years ago, Carter said aggressive play is simply part of his game. 
'Tm just going after guys, pAriod," he said. 'Tm not tar­geting any certain spot to hit anybody. I'm not trying to play football like that. I will guar­antee you this -when I get out there, I'm going to be play­ing 1 l 0 percent. regardless." 
Brown wants to see that effort reduced to 100 percent. He said he plans to ask the NFL's competition committee to review Carter's tackling methods. 
Ile may be playing right into Carter's hands. 
"That must be love," Carter said. "That's nothing but love. I'm going to be scared now. 
"Anytime you have a guy out there worried about what you are doing, that helps. I wouldn't say that you have fear, but you know that he's thinking you are coming after him every play.'' 
Buffalo linemen lead league 
Associated Press 
ORCHARD PARK, N.Y. 
They pave paths to glory for others. Then they pick up their lunch pails and go home. 
But life isn't all work and no play for the Buffalo Bills offen­sive linemen. Winn_ing makes toiling worthwhile. 
"It's a thrill," Bills right tackle Robert Hicks said. "I love blocking people. I love to hit people." 
Buffalo is one of the better teams in the league, and the offensive line is a big reason why. 
A lineman can't pick up a stat sheet after a game and see how he's done. A lineman doesn't have stats. He has to look at other people's num­bers. 
"As a lineman you measure success by two things: sacks and rushing yardage," Buffalo center Jerry Ostroski said. "If you can keep guys off the quarterback and allow him to make plays, you've done your job; if you can allow your run­ning backs to gain yards, you've done your job." 
The running game has amassed a league-high 1,345 yards while averaging 134.5 yards per game, second to Sunday's opponent, the New York Jets (136.2). The Bills are ninth in the league in total offense and 15th in yards passing per game. 
Buffalo has three players among the AFC's top 20 rush­ers: Antowain Smith (537). Jonathan Linton (402) and quarterback Doug Flu tie (355). The line has allowed only 17 sacks, well below the NFL average of 23.9, part of which is due to Flutie's elusiveness. 
"I never look at the stat sheet," Hicks said. "I look at the scoreboard, and then I look at the guys I faced. If they haven't had a good game and we've won, that's a great day." 
The Bills have won three games in a row, have rushed for 492 yards in those three 
victories,  and have not com­ 
. mitted  a  turnover  in  two  
games.  

The Bills have never played 
three straight without a turnover. 
"We'll see what happens this weekend," Ostroski said. "We got on a streak there where it seemed like the first play from scrimmage we were giving up turnovers and getting behind. If we score first and limit turnovers, we can get on our roll and get the running game going." 
The Bills line has run into walls, too. The Bills last sea­son allowed a league-high 25 sacks through their first four contests, in which iluffalo quarterback Rob Johnson was battered continually and absorbed 23 of the sacks. Johnson lost his starting job after being injured in the firth game of 1998, against the Colts. 
The linemen came under scrutiny early last season and refused to talk to the media until after the Flutie-led Bills got rolling again. Bills second­year line coach Carl Mauck apparently still would prefer a root canal to an interview with a reporter. 

THE NEW TRADITION Italian/Sicilian 0Dining south Bend's newest Italian Restaurant Fresh Prepared Dinners, Pizza, Beverages Quoted as 'The Best Italian Restaurant in the area". Try us after the game Reservations Recommended  
wcated Downtown South Bend 235 S. Mkh.igao St. 238-1000 Dial Phone Appetit, 674-0900 Category 844i6 for more info  

Friday, November 19, 1999 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 23 


0MPU5 
tv11Nl5TRY 
Dear Alumni & Friends, 
The staff of Campus Ministry extends an invitation to come together and celebrate the Eucharist this weekend. 
Boston College Football Weekend November 20-21, 1999 
Saturday Vigil Masses 
Basilica 30 minutes after game 
Stepan Center 45 minutes after game 
\. 
Sunday Masses 
Basilica 8:00, 10:00 am & 11:45 am 
Sacred Heart 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 
9:30 & 11:00 am 

page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, November 19, 1999 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Rodriguez catches MVP award from AL 
Associated Press 
ARLINGTON, Texas 
Already considered the best catcher of his generation, Texas' Ivan Rodriguez solidi­fied a spot among the greats Thursday by being winning lhe American League's Most Valuable Player award. 
Rodriguez edged Boston pitcher Pedro Martinez to become, just the ninth catcher in either league to win base­ball's top individual honor, joining the likes of Johnny Bench and Yogi Berra. 
"That means a lot," said Rodriguez, the first MVP catcher since Thurman Munson of the Yankees in 1976. "I respect those guys a lot. To be compared to them is something special." 
Rodriguez earned the com­parisons by hitting .332 with 35 homers, 113 RBIs, 116 runs and 25 stolen bases. He became the first catcher with 20 homers and 20 steals in the same vear and he's the first AL bii.ckstop to have 30 homers, 100 RBIs and 100 runs in the same season. 
This was the third straight year he's set a personal best in average and homers, and it's the second straight year
... 
he's had bests in RBIs and steals. · 
"I prepared myself in the off­season with weights and run­ning to make myself stronger physically and mentally," Rodriguez said. "I told my trainer I was going to hit 30 home runs this year and I hit five more." 
Rodriguez was able to dedi­cate his offseason to a fitness routine because it was the first time he didn't play winter ball in his native Puerto Rico. The Rangers got him to agree to that while negotiating his contract. 
"It helped keep me in shape and more fresh for the sea­son," s.aid Rodriguez, who earned a $250,000 bonus for winning the MVP. "But I just 
f 
HORSE RACING 
Man pleads guilty to ,, endangerment charges 
Associated Press 
BALTIMOHE 
The man arrested for run­ning onto the track as thor­oughbreds raced down the
;:,,r 
home stretch of a Preakness race pleaded guilty Thursday to one count of reckless endangerment. 
Prosecutors said they arc recommending a three-year suspended sentence for Lee Ferrell and five years proba­tion as part of a plea bargain agreement. 
The incident occurred three races before the nationally televised Preakness Stakes on May 15. 
Ferr01l, 22, has said he does not remember the incident. His attorney, Frederic Heyman, has described Ferrell as a troubled person who has been diagnosed as suffering from manic depres­sion. 
As the horses rounded the track, Ferrell made his way to the track from the infield, went over a fence separating the fans from the turf course, staggered to the inside rail, which he pounded with his fist before ducking under it, and walked onto the track. 
As the horses approached him, he stood with his fists clenched and arms upraised. As the horses charged by on both sides, Ferrell could be seen in videotape replays apparently punching at two horses. 
Police originally charged Ferrell with trespassing, reckless endangerment, dis­orderly conduct, resisting arrest and alcohol-related offenses. 
love to play baseball." 
Rodriguez broke into the majors at age 19, mostly because of a powerful arm. The extra baby fat he carried earned him the nickname Pudge, which stuck. 
Now sporting a rock-solid physique and a few days shy of turning 28, Rodriguez has become a complete player. 
He just won his eighth Gold Glove and his sixth straight AL Silver Slugger award for being the best hitter in the league at his position. 
He's popular, too -fans have voted him to start the last seven All-Star games. 
"Talking about all phases of the game, along with being durable, what he's done at his age, I would argue, that ho's the best," said Texas manager Johnny Oates, himself a for­mer catcher. "Since I was old enough to know major league baseball, there's never been any catcher who can do more as well as he does," 
The list of MVP catchers is a roll call of some of the best who've played the position: Bench. Berra, Munson, Elston Howard, Mickey Cochrane, Roy Campanella, Ernie Lombardi and Gabby Hartnett. 
Munson and Elston Howard are the only ones not in the Hall of Fame. 
The only thing missing from Rodriguez's resume is a cham­pionship. Texas won the AL West in three of the last four seasons but has yet to get out of the first round. 
"They're going to put a good team together to go to the playoffs next season," Rodriguez said. "Probably next year is going to be the year." 
Rodriguez is the third Ranger to win the award, join­ing recently traded Juan Gonzalez (1998, '96) and Jeff Burroughs (1974). 
Martinez, the unanimous AL Cy Young winner, had one more first-place vote than Rodriguez, marking only the fourth time that's happened. 
Martinez barely misses MVP 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 
Taking his MVP loss in stride, Pedro Martinez had a message for voters who left him off their ballots: Pitchers are players, too. 
Martinez missed a chance to become the 10th pitcher to win the MVP and Cy Young Award in the same year when he finished second to Texas catcher Ivan Rodriguez on Thursday. 
The Boston Red Sox pitcher received eight first-place votes to seven for Rodriguez but was outpointed 252-239. Two of the 28 voters from the Baseball Writers' Association of America said Martinez was not among the top 10 most valuable players in the league. 
'Tm not disappointed at all. Everybody that was in the pile was good enough to be l\lVI' so I don't hold anything against anybody," Martinez said dur­ing a conference call. 
He disagrer,d, though, with the idea that starting pitchers should have less chance of winning the MVP award because they play just once every live days. 
"We're all players," Martinez said. "What would they do without us? What would they do without pitching?" 
The Red Sox would have been in trouble without him. 
Martinez had one of the best seasons ever by a starting pitcher, leading the Red Sox to their second straight playoff berth. He was 23-4, leading the majors in wins and a 2.07 ERA that was 1.37 runs lower than the second-best in the league, New York's David Cone. And he led the AL with 313 strikeouts. 
That performance earned him a unanimous selection Tuesday as the AL's Cy Young winner. And he said then that adding the MVP award "would mean a lot, probably more than this Cy Young alone because I've_ already achieved that." 
Sorry, Pedro. 
George King of the New York Post and La Velie Neal of the Minneapolis Star Tribune left him off their ballots. 
"I feel a pitcher should just not be an MVP," Neal said. "To win that award, it should be someone who's out there every day battling for his team, It's nothing personal against Pedro." 
King was on vacation in the Caribbean and could not be reached. 
Former San Francisco pitch­ing star Juan Marichal, sports minister in Martinez's native Dominican Republic, disagreed with the choice of Rodriguez. Martinez gave his first Cy Young Award, won in 1997 with Montreal, to Marichal, who was his mentor. 
"It's an injustice," Marichal said. "Pedro was the most dis­tinguished player in the big leagues in 1999 and deserved to be Most Valuable Player." 
"It's regrettable," said another Dominican star, the Chicago Cubs' Sammy Sosa. "I was sure that Pedro would win and, in any event, I think Manny Ramirez had more of a chance of defeating him." 
Cleveland's Ramirez and Roberto Alomartied for third. 
But Martinez said he· wasn't upset: "I don't hold anything against anybody. There's noth­ing I can do. If they don't want to vote, it's up to them," he said. "I don't really care what they [writers] do. I help them whenever I can." 
It's the second time a Red Sox star missed an award because of a writer's omission. 
In 1947, Ted Williams won the Triple Crown but lost the MVP to the Yankees' Joe DiMaggio 202-201 bocause Boston Globe writer Mel Webb, who didn't like Williams, left the player oIT his ballot. 

"When Ted Williams won the Triple Crown, he didn't win the MVP award, either," Red Sox general manager !Jan Duquette told Martinez at the start of the conference call. "So you're in good company." 
"I got what I wanted, so don't worry about it," Martinez told Duquette. 
llis most important reward was his contribution to his ti,am's success, he said. Twice, he kept the Red Sox alive in the playoffs. 
Ho pitched the last six innings, allowing no hits, in the decisive fifth game of the first-round series against Cleveland. And he beat Roger Clemens for Boston's only win against the Yankees in the AL Championship Series. 
Martinez also was the MVP of July's All-Star game at Fenway Park, striking out four MVPs and a home run champi­on in two innings . 
"I can't be greedy," Martinez said. "It's good enough what I got and he is equally as good. He did something unbeliev­able, too, for a catcher." 
llodriguez -was the first catcher with 30 homers, 100 RBIs and 100 runs in the same season. 
He hit .332 with 35 homers and 113 RBIs. 
~is~r1:o~: ~~/;6/99 ~ Il/~8/99, F"nctay-Sund:ay. Rau ii based' ~ single or doublt ~upancy. Aeservations mU1t be made If'! idVVlCe and arc subject to i;va.il.i.biity_ promotioAil .offerl~~ tk:keu'te~~:1~::~~~~n~'.5• Does not include tax or Jfiturues. Offer a not w.lid for conventions/,:roups. and oot c0mbin1ble with other 

----...---~-----------------------·····---------.----------------, 
Friday, November 19, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Majerus blames ESPN for second-round game site 
Anociated Prest 
LEXINGTON, Ky. 
Hick Majerus ls not happy to bo in Kentucky for the second round of the Prnseason NIT. 
Don't got him wrong. llo's not upset lhul his 1Cith­r u n k e d Utah team 
wnn its 
o p n n o r Tuosday 

Majerus
n v e r 
Arkunsus Stato, 
And Im doesn't mind playing No. 14 Kontucky, even though the Wildcats huvci knocked the Utos out of tho NCAA tournu­mont four times this decade, 
MLB 
A perfect meeting place 
Robinson toys with 
throughout the' weekend. 
Open Friday i.md SarurJay D.1ring 
Cubs' coaching offer 
N .D. Home Football Weekends. 
Associated Press 
Evetyorie Welcome 
CHICAGO Hall of Farner Frank Robinson is considering whether to join 
Grilled Burgers. Brats, 
the Chicago Cubs as a bench coach under new manager Don
and Other Specialties 
Baylor. 
·iH Colp Beverages & Spirits Baylor said Thursday from his California home that "it's not a 60" Screen TV's done deal yet," adding that if Robinson does decide to take the
Fully E-ndoscd Tent 
job "it should happen in the next 24 or 48 hours." 
ext to the N.D. Bookstore. 
"We're pretty square on every­219-631-2000 thing financially, but everybody 

~~
SALON NOUVEAU 
' .,\ \ Italian/Sicilian ~-, ' -----.'--.Trattoria 
Dining Q ··"\. ~ 
'-1, \ (_ '235 S. Michigan St. Fresh prepared era, _ i1 --South Bend, IN 46601
PRESENTS 
Pizza, Bever~es r;_--7U 219-233-10~~--­
:·,. ~ ,•••]!'~•, $~ , •;~•• •,, · "I, I•, · *' ,' -• • ' 
Dowptown ~-~:tli(B~~d~• 1-'lriest-Italian Dining 
11 
DOWNUNDER 11 
THE YEAR'S
DOMl/1nl/1DEI:{ ..
II 
BEST COMEDY! 
including a victory in the 1998 maybe they felt we don't have Stone debuted with 12 points for national championship game. the television audience," he said. the Wildcats, while center 
It's that when he committed "Maybe there aren't a lot of Jamaal Magloire had 11 points his team to play in the 16-team Mormons in New York. Maybe and nine rebounds. Smith was Preseason NIT, Majerus was they sell a lot of beer ads, and concerned, though, that Penn promised the Utes would play at we don't appeal to that audience. grabbed 13 offensive rebounds home in the first and second We're not a plzzazz team. We to just 11 for Kentucky. rounds. don't go airborne for any "Against Utah, we'll have to 
Instead, Utah, winner of five dunks." play a much better game, espe­straight Western Athletic Officials at ESPN did not imme­cially ln some of the boxing out Conference titles and national diately respond to a request and rebounding. because they're runnerup two years ago, plays at Thursday for comment on very aggressive, very strong on hostilo Rupp Arena on Friday Majerus' charges. the boards," he said. "l didn't see night, with the winner advancing If the Utes are to buck the odds any of the gang rebounding that to the semifinals in New York and make a Madison Square we're going to need against a next week. Garden appearance, they'll have Utah team." 
Majerus blames the schedule­to get by Kentucky, which The Wildcats also were tenta­makers at ESPN, which is broad­advanced with a 6 7 -50 win over tive offensively. shooting just casting the tournament. Pennsylvania on Wednesday. 40.7 percent from the field. 
'Tm upset about it," he said "When you can sub five at "We didn't have much fluidity Thursday. "It was driven by TV. once" -as Kentucky coach to fthe halfcourt offense] and ESPN doesn't want us on TV, or Tubby Smith did during that win that's probably coaching, doesn't want us back in New -"you know you've got talented because we haven't had a whole York. players," Majerus said. lot of time," Smith said. "We're 
"The business decision was Freshman big man Marvin going to have to make some 
adjustments in our motion offense to maximize our players' potential." 
The Utes opened with a 76-43 home win over Arkansas State on Tuesday, getting 14 rebounds from Alex Jensen and 14 points and seven boards from Nate Althoff. Against Kentucky, Utah will again be without starting forward Hanno Mottola, who is recovering from a torn knee liga­ment he suffered in a preseason exhibition. 
ESPN did not broadcast the Utah-Arkansas State game ­more fuel for Majerus' grudge ­forcing Kentucky to scramble for a tape of the local broadcast to watch on Thursday. One of those assisting in the effort was former Wildcat Scott Padgett, now a rookie with the NBA's Utah Jazz, who sent a videotape by overnight mail. 
has families and things. That's about where we are," Baylor said. 
Should Robinson join the team, the Cubs would have two Hall of Famers on their coaching staff. Billy Williams, a bench coach under Jim Riggleman, was retained and will be the first base coach. Robinson was an MVP in both leagues -1961 with the Reds and 1966 with the Orioles when he won the Triple Crown. He was baseball's first black manager in 1975 with the Indians. lie also managed the Orioles and the Giants. 
HILARIOUS! 
"Keener Is hilarious. Ilove this movie. Go see It!" 
• Leah Rozen, Pl!OPLI 
OUTRAGEOUS! 
11Cheers to 
Cameron Diaz." 
• Manhall Fine, 
GANNETT Nl!WSPAPl!RS 
page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, November 19, 1999 
NBA 
Wizards snap seven-game losing streak with win over Raptors 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Isaac Austin had season­high 20 points and 13 rebounds Thursday night as the Washington Wizards stopped a seven-game losing streak with a 92-81 victory over the Toronto Raptors. 
Michael Smith and Mitch 
Richmond, reduced to a 
reserve, each added 12 for 
Washington, which hadn't 
won since its Nov. 2 sr,ason 
opener. 
The Wizards were attempt­ing to avert their worst start since beginning the 1966-67 season 1-10. 
Vince Carter led the 
Raptors. who had won five of 
six games to take the Central 
Division lead, with 23 points. 
He has scored 20 or more 
points in seven straight 
games, breaking the franchise 
rPcord set by Marcus Camby 
in March 1997. 
Carter led a fourth-quarter 
comeback, scoring six points 
in an 8-0 run that got the 
Raptors within 83-79 with 
1:27 to play. 
Toronto, trying to tie a fran­
chise mark with its third con­
secutive road victory, has 
seven more November games 
to break the team record of 
five opening-month victories. 
Wizards coach Gar Heard, 
who promised to shake up his 
underachieving starting line­
up following a 22-point home 
loss to Philadelphia on 
Tuesday, made only one 
change. Rookie Richard 
Hamilton, the team's third­
leading scorer, replaced six­
time All-Star Richmond, who 
was averaging only 8.9 points 
per game. 
Smith, another of the 
Wizards' first five rumored 
headed to the bench, started 
and scored 12 first-half points 
as Washington led by as many 
as 12 in the second period. 
The Raptors ignored coach 
Butch Carter's pleas to 
engage Washington in an up­
tempo game for much of the 
first half. 
But Brown hit three of four 3-point attempts and Vince Carter had six of his 16 first­half points over the final 5 :21 and Toronto trail"ed 50-44 at halftime. 
Milwaukee 99, San Antonio 88 
Ray Allen had 26 points and Dale Ellis scored all of his 13 points in the fourth quarter as the Milwaukee Bucks beat the San Antonio Spurs. 
The matchup of the NBA's highest-scoring offense and its stingiest defense rPmained tight until midway through the fourth quarter, when the Bucks' offense began clicking and San Antonio's inside com­bination of Tim Duncan and David Robinson couldn't shut it down. 
Milwaukee and San Antonio were at 68 entering the fourth quarter. but the Bucks held the Spurs to six field goals in the fourth while ending the game with a 14-5 run. 
The Bucks improved to 4-0 at home and took over first place in the Central Division with the win, while San Antonio has lost two of three after starting the season 6-1. 
Duncan had 29 points and 14 rebounds, but also made seven turnovers. 
Robinson added 21 points, but the defending champions missed nine free throws in the second half and faded in the closing minutes. 
Milwaukee's 99 points, though 10 below its season average, were the most the Spurs have allowed all sea­son. 
Ellis' 3-pointer from right in front of Spurs' bench with 
1:24 to play put Milwaukee up 92-84, and Sam Cassell hit another 3-pointer 40 seconds later to seal the win. 
Glenn Robinson had 22 
points for Milwaukee, while 
Cassell added 19. Terry Porter 
had 11 points and was the 
only other San Antonio player 
in double figures. 
Milwaukee never trailed 
after the first quarter, even 
though the finesse-oriented 
Bucks allowed themselves to 
be goaded into playing the 
Spurs' physical style. The ref­
erees also did their part to 
slow down the tempo, calling 
28 of the game's 48 fouls on 
the Bucks. 
But Milwaukee stayed ahead thanks to Robinson's shooting, 
''It's a 
Wonderful Life'' 
Stage adaptati.on ofa classic Jwlidayfavorite. 

Sunday, 
November21 at7:30p.m O'Laughlin Auditorium 

lbes:~~t=284-4626 
and the Bucks made a 7-0 run midway through the fourth quarter, taking an 81-74 lead with 7:08 to play on Danny Manning's short jumper. 
San Antonio closed to 83-80 with 3:51 left, but Ellis scored five quick points to end the threat. 
Robinson hit his first seven shots and scored 20 points in the first half. but Duncan scored 18 and the Spurs trailed just 45-44. 
Sacramento 128, Houston 110 
Jason Williams had 23 points and 10 assists as the Sacramento Kings used a 17-1 burst in the .fourth quarter to beat Houston, ending their 11-game losing streak to the Rockets. 
The Kings won their fourth game in a row and the Hockets dropped to 0-6 in Compaq Center, their worst home start ever. 
The Kings had to overcome a season-high 31-point perfor­mance by Hakeem Olajuwon, who had three blocks giving him 2,001 for his career. 
He became the first player in NBA history to record 2,000 blocks and 2,000 steals. 
Houston led 103-96 with 
10:20 to go before the Kings surged to take a 113-104 edge with 5:44 left. Pre drag Stojakovic had seven points in the run and finished with 20 points. The Rockets went 7:09 without a basket until Charles Barkley broke the drought with 3:09 left. 
The third quarter turned into a wide-open running show with Vlade Divac scoring 12 points in the quarter and Corliss Williamson hitting 10 for an 89-88 lead. 
The Rockets got off to a quick start, breaking from a 9-9 tie with a 24-8 run that gave them a 33-17 lead with 
2:54 to go in the first quarter. Olajuwon had 11 points in the period. 
Barkley had 16 points and 16 rebounds for the Rockets and Steve Francis has 16 points and 11 assists. 

HOME OF THE ORIGINAL..• 
Stuffed Pizza, 
Come and Enjoy One of The Area's Fi1e Pizza aid Pasta Houses 
Located behind Hacienda In the 100 Center, Uncolnway W., Mishawaka 
Hours: Mon.• Thurs. 5-10 PM Fri. & Sat. 5-11 PM 
254-9177 
Are you planningto attend 



lfyouare... 
*A'J"unior with 'l>enior t\oun;
*A'J"unior with 'bophomore t\ourr,
*
A 'l>enior who war, abroad lar,t r»emer,ter

*
A ~tudent with r,pu..ial c.irc.umr,tanur, 


... make your way to the Junior Parents' Weekend Office (M05 LaForhme) to pickup an application form! 

Juniors-ifyour parents wo1dd like a reservation at Morris Inn for JPW, you 1nust enter the lottery. Applications ean be picked up and dropped offat the Morris Inn. Applications must be returned by Monday, November 22. 

Friday, November 19, l999 The Observer . SPORTS page 27 
NHL 
Two first-period goals propel Lightning past Penguins 
od. The Lightning center scored Florida defenseman Lance 
A;sociat<d Press 
from in-close after a shot by Pitlick, then trickled past Sean 
Andreas Johansson missed the Burke at 5:18. Robert Svehla 
TAMPA, Fla. net, hit the end boards and was in the penalty box for 
Knvin Ilodson made 26 savus wound up in front of the net. pulling down Jochen Hecht, and and Hobert Pelrovicky and Kubina scored on a backhand Hecht got the second assist on Pavel Kubina scored lirst-poriod shot late in the period. the play. goals as Tampa Bay Lightning The Penguins had the first Demitra made it 2-0 on a heat tlw Pittsburgh 1'1mguins 2-Jive power-play chances of the breakaway at 6:22, taking a 1 on Thursday night. game, but failed to score each long rebound of a shot by 
The Lightning have won four time. Pittsburgh finished O-for-6 Florida's Jaroslav Spacek at straight at homo, the fran­overall. center ice and beating Burke chise's longest streak since a Pittsburgh's Jan Hrdina and from the side of the net. five-game run in 199h-97. J\Jekscy Morozov also returned Demitra had five of the Blues' 
German Titov spoiled Thursday night. llrdina missed 15 shots the first two periods llodson's shutout bid, scoring 12 games b11causP. of a sprained and has 10 goals, tying him for with just Limier three minutes ankle. and Morozov was side­tbe team lead with Pierre 111ft. Titov has throe goals and lined for eight games by a Turgeon. six points during a fivo-gamc charley horse injury. The Blues missod a chance to points strnak. make it 3-0 with 3:14 to go 
J1Lromir Jagr rnlurtrnd to thP when Terry Yake's backhander
St. Louis 3, Aorlda 0
Pittsburgh lineup al'tnr missing was just wide on a penalty shot. 
Pavo! Dcmitra scored two 
most of tlw l'onguins' last game He had been pulled down by
goals in a 1:04 span in the third
bi\Cfil!S!l of an upper leg injury. Svehla on a breakaway.
period as the St. Louis Blues
I le failed Lo record a point for Yake had the Blues' last
beat the Florida Panthers. 
the scicond straight game after penalty shot, on Jan. 26, 1999,
Roman Turek made 27 saves
opening tlrn snason with a 15-and also missed that one
for his first shutout of the sea­
gamo poinL~ struak. against San Jose's Steve
son as the BluP-s frnded the
Ttw injury in tlw thigh area Shields.
Panthers' four-game winning
jusl hnlow his right groin side­St. Louis didn't have to wait
stroak in a game matching two
linnd llw NIIL scoring leader for long for another goal, though,
of the NIIL's stingiest defenses.
all hut. three minutes against as Michal Handzus' empty-net­
Florida, which leads the
Buffalo on Tuesday night. ter made it 3-0 with 2:27
Southeast Division, has allowed
llodson mm.In a pad save on remaining.
45 goals in 19 games, and the
Martin Straka on a first-period The Blues are 4-1-1 in their
Blues have given up 43 in 19. 
brnakaway, and robbed Titov last six games against Florida
The Panthers had killed ofT 17
from point-blank range in lhe and 6-1-1 in their last eight
straight power plays before
third. home games overall. 
Demitra scored on a slap shot
l'nlrovicky scornd a fluke goal Both teams had to be weary
that appeared to deflect off
midway through lhe first peri-after playing on the road the previous night. The Panthers 
WELCOME TO OUR 
checked into their hotel in St. 

Louis at 4:30 a.m. Thursday
A 
after beating Colorado 2-1 in 
Humble Abode 
Denver, while the Blues got home at 2 a.m. after a 3-2 victo­
ry in Toronto. 
1632 N. Adams Street 
South Bend. IN 46628 stay while visiting South Bend? 
Need a comfortable place to 
Toll Free 
Hlll-662-4129 
Fudge-House.com
. 
3 Bedroom/2 Hath Home Jay & Barbara Brown 

. 
Rcusonablc Nightly/Weekly Rales 

• 
2.5 Miles from Notre Dame www.apartment-teclt.com/humble.html 


Free Fudge, check Itout. 
One of the Greatest Option Quarterbacks in College Football History 
Tony Rice 
QB 1988 National Champions *Autograph and Photo Session Fri. Nov. 19th and Sat. Nov. 20th.* 
At The 
Logan Center 
1235 N. Eddy St. South of the Stadium Corner of Eddy and Juniper 289-4831 
Also 
Save up to 75% 
on 
ND Gifts, Clothing and Memorabilia 
-Check Out the Great Selection of Notre Dame Products at the Logan Center­
*Thursday and Friday Nov. 18th and 19th, 9:00 a.m. until 
9:00 p.m. Saturday Nov. 20th, 8:00 a.m. until 2:30 p.m. 
Autographs Free w/Select Purchases • $10.00 Charge with no purchase Photographs with Tony $10.00-$7.00 of this donated to Logan Center 
Before the game. Blues left behind 4-0, cutting the deficit to wing Geoff Courtnall retired due a goal when Adam Graves to the lingering effects of his scored with just under five min­second concussion in less than a utes to play. Theo Fleury year. missed a chance to tie it with a 
minute to go when his shot hit the post. 
Dallas 1, Philadelphia 1 
The Bruins also beat theMike Modano scored with 
Rangers on Saturday. After that30.7 sPconds left in the third 
game, there was speculation
period to give the Dallas Stars a 
that Rangers coach John
tie with the Philadelphia Flyers. 
Muckler's job was in jeopardy,With goalie Ed Belfour lifted with former coach Mike Keenanfor an extra attacker, Modano ready to step in. 
pushed a backhand shot off 
Carter and Allison scored 1 :42 
Philadelphia goalie John 
apart in the second period. 
Vanbiesbrouck's pads for the Carter opened the scoring atDallas forward's seventh goal of 6:42, flipping the puck pastthe season. 
goalie Mike Hichter after aThe defending Stanley Cup 
backhand attempt by Thornton.
champion Stars outshot the 
Allison made it 2-0 when hisFlyers 3-2 in overtime. but the 
slap shot trickled through
Flyers missed the best opportu­Richter's pads. Gill scored on anity when Daniel McGillis fired slap shot from the blue line towide of the goal from the slot. 
give the Bruins a 3-0 lead atDaymond Langkow scored a 16:09 of the second period. 
first-period goal for the Flyers, 
The Rangers mounted a
4-0-1 in their last five home comeback in the third periodgames and 10-2-2 since open­
when Jan Hlavac and Mike
ing the season 0-5-1 start ­the worst in franchise history. The injury-depleted Stars are 0-1-2 in their last three, and 2­5-2 in their last nine. Langkow scored his fourth goal of the season at 4:56 of the first period, taking a centering pass from Chris Therien near the boards and lifting a wrist shot over Belfour. Vanbiesbrouck stopped 24 shots, including close-range attempts by Mike Keane in the first period and Modano in the  Knuble scored just under three minutes apart. Hlavac converted a pass from Petr Nedved, and wristcd a shot over the right shoulder of Dafoe. Knuble cut the lead to 4­2 when his slap shot beat Dafoe inside the left post. Bates scored the Bruins' fourth goal when he backhand­ed a shot past Richter while falling on the ice. Richter made 20 saves for New York.  
third.  
Belfour, recovering from  a  San Jose 4, Ottawa 1  
strained groin, made 19 saves  Vincent  Damphousse  and  
for the Stars, who stopped the  Dave Lowry scored late in the  
NHL's best power play in four  third period  as  the San Jose  
attempts.  Sharks  beat  the  Ottawa  
The Stars were again thwart­ Senators.  
ed in their bid for the fran­ Damphousse scored his sev­ 
chise's 1,000th victory. They  enth of the season to give San  
won 7 58 games in 26 seasons in  Jose  a  3-1  lead  with  3:45  
Minnesota,  and  241 games  remaining, and Lowry added  
since moving to Dallas seven  his first goal of the season with  
years ago.  2:40 left.  
Alexander  Korolyuk  and  
Boston s, New York Rangers 3  Marco Sturm also scored to  
Jason Allison, Boston's scor­ help the Sharks to their first  
ing leader last season, scored  road victory over the Senators.  
his first goal of the season as  Owen Nolan moved within  
the Bruins beat the New York  two  points  of  Pittsburgh's  
Hangers.  Jaromir Jagr in the NHL scoring  
Joe Thornton had an empty- race  with  an  assist  on  
net goal and two assists to push  Damphousse's goal. Nolan has  
his team-leading points total to 19.  14 g·oals and 17 assists. Kevin Dineen scored for the  
Anson Carter added  a  goal  Senators, who tied the Sharks  
and an assist, and Hal Gill and  in four previous home meetings.  
Shawn Bates each scored his  San Jose, coming off a 4-1 vie­ 
first goal of the season to help  tory over Montreal on Tuesday  
Boston  extend  its  winning  night, improved to 2-3-1  on its  
streak to three games.  sev~n-gamo road trip.  .  
Byron Dafoe (4-1) made 24  D1~eon opened the ~coring  
saves for the Bruins, 9-1-2 in  5:19 mto the_seco'.1d w:rwd, a~1d  

their last 12 games and 5-0-3 in-f Koro_ly_uk t!ed i,t with 6:20 their last eight home games. remammg. Sturm s ,shorthand-The Rangers scored three ed goa_l gave th~ Sharks tl~e consecutive goals after falling lead w'.th four mmutcs left m 
the period. 

page 28 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, November 19, 1999 
CROSS COUNTRY 
Shay, Klemmer lead Irish into NCAA Championships 
. Men's squad sets sights on top five finish 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Assi~tant Sporn; Editor 
The men's and women's cross country teams both head to the NCAA Championships Monday for only the 
second time in N o t r e Dame his­tory, led by junior Ryan Shay and senior
..... 
Allison 

Klemmer. Shay 
The men have consistently improved all season long, rising from unranked at the beginning of the year to seventh this week. 
Their climb in the polls has been sparked by victories at the National Catholic Invitational and Big East Championships, runner-up finishes in the adidas/Notre Dame Invitational and NCAA District IV Championships, and sixth-place in the Pre­National Championships in mid-October. 
"The first goal is to be in the top 10, with a secondary goal to be in the top five," head coach Joe Piane said. "We're ranked seventh in the nation, so we'd hope to repli­cate that." 
"Our attitude going into the meet is to hold our ranking, which is seventh right now," Shay said. "To be in the top 10 is huge, and to accomplish that is astounding. As a team, we're really confident that we can do that. Our spirits are up and our confidence is up, and that's really good going into a meet like nation­als." 
Based on their perfor­mances so far this season, a top-five to top-10 finish is a realistic goal. 
"I think we've definitely got a great shot of if not being in the top five, being in the top 10," senior Mike Greiwe said. 
"We've really made some strides this season. It's going to take a strong race from everyone. We're going to have to go out and run intel­ligently and keep moving up in the pack." 
One of the keys to the Irish improvement has been the performances of the third through seventh runners. 
"The group that has done the most improvement through the season is John Dudley, Mike Greiwe, Ryan Maxwell and Sean McManus and Marc Striowski," said Piane. 
"They are the heart and soul of the team right now," Shay said. "What Luke [Watson] and I do doesn't matter half as much as what those guys do." 
Shay and sophomore Watson have been paceset­ters for the Irish this year. 
"We're basically looking to do as we've done all season, and run together," said Greiwe. "We've got two great front-runners in Shay and Watson, and the rest of us will have to stick together and keep picking people off." 
Shay qualified for nationals as a sophomore and is look­ing to make a big improve­ment on his finish last year. 
He has captured individual titles at several meets this season, including the adi­das/Notre Dame Invitational and the Big East Invitational. 
"To be in the top 10 would probably be my primary goal," Shay said. "Once the race starts, depending on how I feel, to keep moving up as close to the first-place spot as I can get. I don't feel anybody out there is a better runner than me. Whether I win or not doesn't prove someone's a better runner. It just means maybe on a given day they were." 
Shay and Watson could 
make a big splash in the 
meet. To be All-Americans, 
they must finish among the 
top 25 U.S. citizens in the 
race. 
"I think both Shay and Watson have a shot at being All-American," Piane said. 
"I know what he [Watson] 
does in practice, and there's 
no reason he shouldn't be 

purveyors offine wine &food 122 S. Michigan Street South Bend, IN Next to the College Football Hall ofFame 
(219) 234-WJNE 
LUNCH -DINNER -CARRY OUT 
~ Stda.4 ad P<Wt44­
~ p~ 
1~"""tJ~S~ 
"t'~ ~ '9uce e'94M 

1't--7Ud 11:00a. · 9:0f¥-{l4h, ~
7"'11-11:00a.M -I I :00,.,,., 
?u-S'" 11.-0tJ--f:OOtu,,, 
"To be in the top 1 o is huge. and to accomplish that is astounding. As a team we're really confident that we can do that." 
Ryan Shay Irish runner 
there right with me," Shay said. The men will run 10K as at the district meet. 
The increased distance should help the Irish, as the regular season races are run over an 8K course. 
"We've always trained for 10,000-meters,'' said Piane. 
The women's squad is run­ning in the NCAA Championships for the first time since 1993. 
They placed third at dis­tricts and received an at­large bid Monday based on their performance during the season. 
"I think a good realistic goal would be to be in the top 20, and I think we're going to have to run very, very well to do that," women's head coach Tim Connelly said. "If we compete as well as we did back at the Big East meet, I think we can do that." 
The Irish were somewhat surprised to qualify for nationals because the NCAA selection committee had to go through Michigan, the sec­ond-place finisher at dis­tricts, to get to the Irish. 
"As a team, we're going into this race as underdogs," said Klemmer. "No one's looking for us to do anything at all. We're going to go out there and run as well as we can, so there's no pressure." 
Freshman Jennifer Handley is excited to be running in the NCAA Championships. 
"We're kind of just excited to be going," Handley said. "We don't really have any expectations of where we're going to be. Last meet, we had a lot of pressure on us to qualify, but this time we're just going to go out and run and have fun." 
Klemmer, an All-American in track, is aiming to match that honor Monday in cross country. 
She placed sixth in the dis­trict meet, qualifying for nationals as an individual. 
"I am shooting to be All­American," Klemmer said. "I think I'm going to have to run a really great race, but I'm definitely capable of doing it." 
Connelly is not certain which runners besides Klammer and Handley will be going to the starting line for the Irish, as several athletes have fought injuries and ill­nesses over the past couple weeks. 
Seven other runners will go to the meet in Bloomington, Ind. -seniors Nicole LaSelle, Erin Luby, Patty Rice and Valerie Siqueira; juniors Chrissy Kuenster and Erin Olson; and freshman Kari Eaton. Five will compete, depending on who is in the best condition to run at race time. 
"If we have any goal as a team, it would be to run together, because teamwork is what got us there," said Rice, who will run her final cross country meet Monday. "Just looking around and seeing the people we've been working with for four years at the finish line, I think, is going to heighten the experi­ence." 
The Irish won the National Catholic Invitational earlier this season. 
Irish Country Bed & Breakfast Registry ''7()fue 'P'"·u ~~~Ida«, u ~-·· 
16901 Jackson Road South Bend Call: (219) 255-1516 Fax: (219) 257-4193 
Web: www.irishcountry.com 
Castl~'Poiot 
Apartments 
Cleveland and lronwcod Roads/1801 I Cleveland Road/ S01tth Bel'ld, Indiana 46637/ (219)272-81 l 0 
New Castle Point Seleet Units Available for Next Semester 
*Within minutes 
of campus* 
• 
Renovated, spacious one and two bedroom apartments, some with lofts 

• 
Includes membership in the new 


.; Castle P~int Racquet Club 
I
l l and Fitness Center l ..J 
'  ' 
,  
•~--.:..•'  ',,-,_,,,....,;.,..,,,'/  

----7 
friday, November 19, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 29 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish head to MSG for NIT semifinals 
By BRIAN KESSLER 
Spmrs Editor 
The Notre Damr. men's bas­ketball l!iam knew they were going to Madison Squarn Carden, 
but thoy didn't r.xpnct to Im hnadnd th,ini Lh is soon. 
Tlw Irish arn guar• anlH!:d a 

..,,mt in llw Doherty 
llig liast Tournanwnt !wld annually at tlH! Garden in March. b11J a 
I 07 •tJC1 victory ovnr Siena last night s!'nds Notro Dame to the world's most fumous arn11a rwxt Wndncsduy to take 11n tlrn winner of the New i\foxico St.•Arizona gamn in the so mi fin uls of tlw l'rnseason NIT. 
"It's nially special," lrna<l coach Matt Dohorty said. ''f'vu played in the Gardfrn, I've been an assistant coach in the Cardm1 and now I'm going lo lrn tlrn head coach of Notre Dame at Madison Square Gardnn. The hair is raising up on my arms as I speak. That's lrnpp'.:rwd a lot these past few days. 
Doherty has put Notre Dame basketball back on tlrn map in a matler of two games. lie alrnady knocked off' two NCA!\ Tournament tPams from a year ago and has. the Irish believing they can win. 
"I think our confidence comes directly from· cnach Doherty. It's something we didn't have last ytrnr and 
there's a whole different atti­tude surrounding this team," said Troy Murphy, who had 31 points in Thursday's victo­ry. "We think we can go out tlwrc every game and win. I know it wasn't that way last year. We think we can win and we're prepared to win. We play hard and that can be directly attributed to coach Doherty." 
Doherty believes that instill­ing confidence in his players is the only way for his team can live up to its potential. 
"l don't joke with them when I say that wlrnn we beat Ohio State, we're going to walk of!' tlrn court and cele­bratn in the locker room. That's not games." Doherty said. "You have to have that mindset. We haVfl to change their thinking. When we go into Ohio State. we have to be like we're Notre Dame and we plan on winning." 
Doherty was so sure the Irish WOltld beat Ohio State, he scheduled the team's trav­el arrangements around it. 
"That's the reason we bussed back [from Columbus!." Doherty said. "We didn't want to wake up at five in the morning and catch a flight out of there because we're playing on Thursday !after we win)." 
Doherty saw the confidence in his team in the final moments of the game against Ohio State. 
"Late in the game if I didn't feel confident I would have called a timeout," Doherty said. "But I looked into those players eyes and knew at least we'd get a shot off." 
Every Irish fan knew where that shot wound up. 
Football 
continued from page 36 
since that day, when Touchdown Jesus guided Boston College to victory that Notre Dame has never reached the expectations associated with 11 national titles and seven Heisman winners? 
No one knows. 
But what is clear about the last six seasons is that this is not your father's Notre Dame football. Unless of course, your father grew up in the Gerry Faust years. 
In the six years from 1994 to the present, the Irish have posted a 44-25-1 record and have never won a bowl game. Their highest ranking in the Associated Press Top 25 poll was 11th in 1995. 
Including this year, the Irish will end the season unranked for the third time in six years. 
Since the 1993 season, only one player (cornerback Bobby Taylor in 1994) has been named a consensus first-team All-American. They've had two first round NFL drart picks, Renaldo Wynn in 1997 and Luke Pctitgout last year. No Irish player has been in serious consideration for the Heisman since 1993. 
It all started with the Boston College game. 
A week earlier, the 9-0 and second-ranked Irish had won the "Game of the Century" 31·24 over top ranked Florida State. With a win over the Eagles. the Irish would play for the national championship. The Eagles had other plans. 
Boston College's motivation the week prior to the Nov. 20 game came a year earlier, when the Irish beat the Eagles 54· 7. With his team ahead 37-0 in the third quar­ter. Irish head coach Lou lloltz called for a fake punt. 

Come wake up with the music of the David Hilliker 
Jazz Band and enjoy free food and drinks. A great atmosphere to study or just relax on a Sunday morning. 
a 

Java AZZ 

Punter Craig Hentrich ran for the first down. 
Holtz claimed that the rea­son he faked the punt was because he wanted tu make sure every team that the Irish would play later on in the season would have to prepare for the fake. 
The Eagles coaching staff' and players had a different spin on the fake punt. 
"They really rubbed it in our face the year before," Cordon said referring to the fake. "It was a motivator. Even in the off season we were really preparing to play them again." 
Roston College raced out to u 24-14 halftime lead behind quarterback Glenn Folr,y's three touchdowns. 
With 11 minutes left in the game, the Eagles led 38-17. I3ut the Irish reeled off 22 straight points for a one­point lead. 
The Eagles had the ball 011 their 25-yard line with 1:09 loft in the game. 
Foley misconnecicd on his first two pass attempts, including a near interception by linebacker Pete Bercich. Playing the game of his life, Foley completed his next four passes to set up Gordon's attempt. 
"Every week in practice we did a two-minute drill," Gordon said. "We were espe­cially ready that week because we had been doing it in practice." 
The Irish called a timeout to put the pressure on Gordon. What Gordon real­ized was that this wasn't a regular timeout. 
"Thai one timeout at Notre Dame took about 10 minutes because it's on TV," Gordon said. "They really tried to ice me. That's the one thing you can't practice." 
While the Notre Dame and Boston College players were on their knees, praying for their team's victory, Gordon had other plans. 
"After watching it on televi­sion, I'm glad that I didn't look over at the sidelines," Gordon said. "Everyone was on their knees, holding hands and praying." 
"I was just out there get• ting ready to kick," Gordon said. "The only guy I talked to was my holder (Foley). No one else wanted to talk to 
me." Foley gave him some good advice. 
"Ile was really playing it off like it was no big deal." Gordon said of Foley. "He said it was jusl like practice. He loosened me up a little bit which was good." 
While getting ready to kick, Gordon recalled watching tapes of Notre Dame's field goal block team during the week. 
His main concern was with Taylor and his ability to jump over the line to block the attempt. 
"They had a lot of grubber kicks where a guy [Taylor! jumps up in the middle," Gordon said. "I wanlfld to get the ball up before he [Taylor[ jumped so I went a little quicker than I normally do." 
He did. Barely. 
The snap from center was a little high but Folny han• died the mishap. 
-
"I kicked it a little funny because hu didn't rnally get il down the way I like it," Gordon said. "The trajoctory wasn't tho height that I usu­ally got. I had a l'oeling it was good but I wasn't lOO per­cent sure." 
Immediately after tho ball went through the uprights, Gordon knew he was part of something special. 
But first he had to get off the lield. 
As Notre Dame Stadium fell silent, Boston College cele­brated on the field, with Gordon on the bottom of a sweaty pile of players. 
"I had no idea the whole team would jump on top of me," Gordon said. "I couldn't breath. It was chaos." 
An ex-soccer player, who played in high school against ex-Notre Dame kicker Kevin Pendergast, Gordon never kicked in a football game before coming to Boston College. 
But his left foot will always be a part of college football lore. 
His kick trails only Doug Flutie's Hail Mary pass against Miami in 1984 as the greatest moment in Boston College's history. 
And among the most devas­tating defeats in Notre Dame's storied tradition. 
The Irish have never been the same since. 
FREE REFILL 
On Popcorn & Solt Drinks! 
' • I 
ALL STADIUM SEATING • ALL DIGITAL SOUND 
SHOWPLACE 16 
Just West of Main St. on Chi ewa • 299-6063 
. s4_SO All Shows Before 6 pm • Advance Ticket Sales Available :1 (5.. 
All Times for Nov. 19th-21st Sal, Sun & Mon. Matinees in IBrackelsJ 
-
: The World is Not Enough (PG•l3) Sleepy Hollow (R) Digital ,I12:401 3:40 6:40 9:40 Digital III :301 2:00 4:30 7:<Xl 9:30 
11:101 4:10 7:20 10:10 112:30 3:(XJ) 5:30 8:00 I0:30 
· Pokemon (G) Digi1al TheM~nger:!I:201 3:50 6:20 8:45 Story of .Joan of An· (R) Dlgiwl11:50] 4:20 6:50 112:501 4:00 7:15 10:25 
• Ug}it it lip (Rl Digital Dogma (R) Digit:~
[2:45] 5:05 7:35 9:50 [2:05] 4:45 7:30 10:20 , Anywhere Rut Here (PG-13) Digilal Omega Code (PG) Digital
[2:20] 5:00 7:40 I0:15 II:301 4:40 7: 10 10:05 
, 'l11c Insider (R) Digit,tl 11,c Hone Colll'l..1or (R) DigitalI UX114:50 8:20 12:301 5: 15 7:50 10:35 
·111e Holl.'il.' on Ha1111100 Hill (R) Digitul The llochelor <PG-JJ) DigiwlI12:20 2:401 5:10 7:45 10:0:l 9:20 · Double ,Jeopardy (R} Digital 'The Sixth ~n'iC (PG-13l Digital,112:(XJ 2:501 5:20 8:10 10:40 12: 10] 4:55 7:25 9:55 
•.,.,• .,v,,..,,.,, • ..,,.,,,,,, ....... ~--....... ---···--~-----••• 
ONLY $1 00 All Show& Before 6pm ,
SCOTTSDALE 6 • Eve1YQne • Everyday ­Scottsdale Mall • 299-6063 $1.50 All Evening Shows ;16. · 
tFight Club (R) Drive Me Crazy (PG-13) , 11 :001 4:00 7:!Xl IO:<Xl 11 :501 4:.50 7:30 9:50 : Runaw11y Hridc (PG) Dudley Do Right (PG) 
11:10] 4:40 7:10 9:40 [ I :301 4:(X! 7:(X) 9:20 
Bowlingcr (PG-13) ln.~pt'(.'.IOT Gadget (PG) fI:401 4:20 7:20 9:45 11 :20J 4:30 6:40 8:50 
page 30 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, November 19, 1999 
Carroll hardly played at Ohio the students arc reacting posi­er. State game in Madison Square State and did not score the tively to them." By 7:29, the lead had been Garden Wednesday,
Irish 
r>ntire game. "It's like our sixth man out cut.to nine. "The biggest thing we have to continued from page 36 "He !Doherty] told me before there," Ingelsby said of the "Tonight was real batLlc is distraction," Doherty the game that we had two point crowd. impressed because Siena made said. "It's not by design," Doherty guards in there that had a lot of The Saints started to come a couple runs at us, cut it to 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
-
Cincinnati adds Sanders 
to Reds' roster 
by another team in the Rule 5 
Associated Press 
draft. The move Thursday basi­cally ensures that if Sanders ever crNCINNA'n decides Lo return to baseball, Lhe Oeion Sanders was added to Reds will keep the rights to him. the Cincinnati Reds' 40-man ros­Sanders is close to Reds general ter Thursday, a procedural move manager Jim Bowden and visited made in case he ever decides to the Reds last season, sitting on play baseball again. the bench for a game at Cinergy 
Sanders has remained under Field. 
minor league contract with the Sanders played center field and Reds since he returned to playing batted leadoff for the Reds in cornerback for the Dallas 1994-95 and again in 1997, Cowboys full-time in 1997. when he decided it was too diffi­If the Reds hadn't purchased cult to be a two-sport star. The 
Sanders' minor league contract Reds gave him permission to and added him to the 40-man leave late that season to become roster, he could have been taken a full-time football player. 
back several Limes in the sec­nine, and our kids didn't 
Game Notes
ond half, but the Irish never let flinch," Doherty said. "I never 
. Notre Dame scored more
them get too close. felt like they were getting ner­
than 100 points for the first
"Tonight they shot the ball vous." 
time since a 101-98 victory
exceptionally well," Hewitt Graves and Murphy were the 
over Syracuse in February
said. "I thought there were a major figures in the closing 
1992, the first year of the .John
couple times in the second half minutes. Graves scored nine of 
Macleod era.
when we had them on th~~ the final 24 points, and Murphy 
. The bench contributed 30
brink, bu L we didn't make a added seven. 
points for Notrn Dame. 
good shot here. didn't make a Murphy was the leading scor­
. The Irish shot 60 percent
good decision there. Overall, I er for the Irish with 31. 
compared to the Saints' 44 per­
thought. they hung tough when Freshman Jere Macura pulled 
cent. 
we made our runs at them." down seven rebounds, and 
. Murphy was 15-18 from the
With 10:14 to go in the game, senior point guard Jimmy 
foul line.
the Irish were leading 81-63. Dillon dished off 12 assists. The 
. Swanagan spread his tal­
Siena mounted a seven-point Irish host St. Francis in a non­
ents, tallying nine points, six
comeback behind a Faison run­lournamcnt gaiirn Sunday at 2 
rebounds and four assists fur 
ner, an Isaiah Stewart shot and p.m., before facing the winner 
Notre Dame. 
a Jim Cantamessa throe-point-of today's Arizona-New Mexico 
QUALITYService• Student Discounts • Gitt Certi ·cates • Guaranteed Satisfaction! 

CERTIFIED Instructors I DESIGNER Tanning with ADVANCED TANNING Systems SUPERSizeBeds& Booths t CLEAN&SANITARY! t CREDITCARDSAccepted I OPEN7Days 
.. 
.,,, 
• 
said. "I did it because at Ohio State it was the first game, it was on ESPN. I didn't want the freshmen to get rattled. I want­ed ballhandlers. I wanted to control the ball as best I could." 
Carroll was a huge factor for the Irish. scoring Pight points in a two-minute span in the sec­ond half. 
He shot seven of nine from the l.ield, including two for two from three-point range. 
"We left Matt Carroll open for a ton of shots," Siena head coach said. "It seemed he made 100 of those tonighl. To me, he was the unexpected contributor tonight." 
experience, and tliat it was my first game and national televi­sion. He was more comfortable and confident with them in the game," Carroll said. "I was a little surprised, but I can't dwell on that. When I got my chance to go in there, I'm going to be ready, no matter when it is or for how long it is." 
Carroll's big plays gave Notre Dame a 17-poi.nt lead and helped rile the crowd. 
"I think when you're tired, a little bit beat up, when they [the crowd] got going, that gave us some extra burst of energy that we needed," Doherty said. "The kids feel so good because 

Cai pusView 
Apar < ents 1801 Irish Way 
272-1441 
Looking Cora new-''View-" inJanuary... 
Call us about FREE F SHINGS i11 a $525-$650/month Apartntentl 
hiday, November 19, 1999 
The Observer . SPORTS page 31 
HOCKEY 
Dunlop 01akes early Inark on Irish squad 

By MATT OLIVA 
.Sports Writer 
As the Notrn Dame hockey team struggled through a slow start to the 1999-2000 season, there have been a fow bright spots. 
An Irish rookie, however, shows signs or brillianr.e. 
Freshman center Connor Dunlop, from St. Louis, Mo., has appeared in all 1 2 Irish games and is tied for the team lead with seven points (one goal. six assists). 
While Dunlop has had a hard 1.ime putting the puck in the uflt. at the early stages of this sea­son, he found other ways to make an impact and help the 
•Irish turn around their season. 
''He distributes the pnck very well," Irish assistant coach Andy Slaggort said of Dunlop, who leads the team .in assists. "llis play opens up the ice for his teammates and he is also a very physical player for his size, which a lot of people don't expect. He makes his line better by the way he sees the ice and distributes the puck." 
The 5-foot-10, 185-pound Dunlop has a strong hockey past. His father, Blake Dunlop, played 11 seasons in the NML, including stints with Minnesota, Philadelphia, St. Louis, and Detroit. 
Connor played two seasons for the USA Developmental Program, totaling 46 goals, 56 
assists and 85 penalty minutes in 136 games. He was also named alternate captain for the USA under-18 national team. 
Dunlop's experience and lead­ership has uot gone unnoticnd by the Irish coaching staff. 
Ile has seen significant playing time on Irish power plays, penalty kills and at the end of games when the Irish need to win crucial face-offs. 
"Connor is a winner," said Irish assistant John Michcletto. "Ile has the mentality that he wants to be out there in big situ­ations. Ile knows what hn needs to do to make the tnam win." ... _ 
Dunlop has played well during Urn recent Irish sweep of Alaska-Fairbanks. hitting the crossbar during Nol.re Dame's 1­0 victory last Friday. 
"Anytime a f'rnshman steps up his scoring it motivatos the other players, especially the upperclassmen,·• said Mir.heletto. "Everyono plays harder and tlrny count on him to contribute." 
Dunlop is proving why his Notre Dame class is one of' the nation's best. 
"llis future will lw dotermirrnd by him," said Slaggcrt. "llis potential is limitless, at the col­lege level and possibly beyond. We are trying to rncruit com­petitors like him and we will have a lot of' success if' we do that. Coach Poulin has improved 
r
the skill level dramatically and we want to continue that trend to make us better." 
STORE HOURS 
26324 US 1 2 East P .o. Box 246 Monday to Thursday 9:00-9:00 
Edwardsburg, Michigan 49112 
Friday and Saturday 9:00-10:00 
616-663-3745 Sunday 10:00-7:00 FAX 616-663-8178 WEB www.lunkersonline.com 
ENJOY THE OUTDOORS WHILE SHOPPING INSIDE•.• ONE OF THE LARGEST FISHING, HUNTING & CAMPING STORES IN THE MIDWEST FEATURING A RIVER FULL OF TROPHY FISH AND A BEAUTIFUL SKY HOME TO A FLOCK OF GEESE! 
\ ctiOO 
\\U\!,e se ~ 
of fisbUW,, 
• \?, &
uuntln. 
·ni
ct\lll\1\ · \l\'l\icS
su 
Seea . 
a/Jig,, blre
at0t-, 
6000 j and a 
lar b. 
Ke111ollth 
bassJ 
\e1.:\\o\\ 
\1,C.
\,\lric . ua"'e ~ ~o\\'.C. ' '3l'lo 
o ~,rts
·\'lle~ts r i,\t
s ot\\C. · 
,aoj . 
l\ \te\\l~· 
ALSO ENJOY ANGLERS IN RESTAURANT (LOCATED INSIDE LUNKERS) ONE OF THE BEST RESTAURANTS IN MICHIANA! 
Dine a menu of unique or traditional food items while surrounded by 21 aquariums full offish! Watch a shark swim in our 1000 gallon coral reef tank. A truly unique dining experience you won't forget. ITS ALL HERE AT LUNKERS! ONLY 15 MINUTES FROM CAMPUS STRAIGHT UP ST RD 23 INTO MICHIGAN 
lVD~slJ;kers­
foulld a.,,orite edb
1977 JV. Ya Daill otre e Grad F'ra11 ­¾cco/l
ester 
..
c,\ot\l\t\i \\Oie \\t\et\t (\e~lil\" ~w;ot\, 
{e'3tut''j\~ .c,\l 8L "100\f\: · '3. co\'-'\\\\}\ 
See lh 
e fa
fiOoo lllous lu11k l:11//011 
'lllal"io
Ill! 
page 32 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, November 19, 1999 
VOLLEYBALL 

_... 
Mary Leffers, shown here in the Irish win over the Mountaineers, was named the Big East Player of the Year. 
Leffers nets Player of the Year honors 
Special to The Observer 
After setting conference records for blocks and hitting percentage, senior captain Mary Leffers was named the 1499 Big East Volleyball Player of the Year Thursday evening at the conference's annual award banquPt. 
Leffers was joined by junior setter Denise Boylan on the all­Big East first team, while junior Christi Girton and sophomore Kristy Kreher were named to the ail-conference second team. 
Leffers, a middle. blocker, set Big East records for most blocks and highest hitting percentage in conference matches and is currPntly ranked fifth nationally in blocks per game. 
A three-time Big East Player of the Week, Leffers recently became the 10th Notre Dame player to reach the 1,000 kill career mark and currently holds the Irish record for career hitting percentage with a .303 mark. 
She joins past Notre Dame Big East Players of the Year in 1995 winner Jenny Birkner and two­time winner Jaimie Lee, who won in 1996 and 1997. 
Joining Leffers on the all-con­ference first team was Boylan, who ranks fourth in the Big East in assists per game in both conference and overall match­es. 
A 1999 preseason all-Big East selection, Boylan has led the Irish to a .290 hitting percent­age and a phenomenal .359 hit­ting percentage in Big East matches. 
Boylan recently recorded her 
3,000th career assist in the 
team's last regular season 
home match against Syracuse 
and ranks second in Notre 
Dame history in that category. 
Girton was named to the all­
Big East second team for the 
second year in a row after earn­
ing all-rookie honors in 1997. 

Irish prepare for Big East tourney 
By MATT OLIVA 
Sports W ricer 
The Notre Dame volleyball team travels to Pittsburgh this weekend for the Big East tournament. 
The Irish claimed the top seed and a first round bye after finishing the regular season atop the conference with a perfect 11-0 record. Second place Georgetown, who the Trish narrowly defeated last Sunday to claim the regular season title, also drew a first round bye in the six-team tournament. 
The Irish will play their match Saturday afternoon against the winner of the Rutgers-Connecticut match. 
A victory on Saturday would place the Irish into the Big East finals on Sunday. Notrn Dame is the five-time defend­ing Big East champion and can capture its eighth consec­utive NCAA Tournament bid with a win in the final. The Irish have never lost a Big East Tournament match since joining the conference in 1995 and boasts a 9-0 all-time record. 
Heading into the tourna­ment, the Irish will look to Mary Leffers and Christi Girton to lead their offense. Girton is first on the team with a 3.96 kills pBr game average, while Leffers aver­ages 3.28 kills . .Junior captain Denise Boylan runs the offense from her setter posi­tion, averaging 11.9 assists per game. 
Defensively, Notre Dame will look to Girton, Kreher, Emily Shiebout and Keara Coughlin. The four teammates combined to lead the Irish to an average of 13.63 digs per game, compared to their opponent's a\'erage of 12.14 digs per game. If the Irish face Connecticut on Saturday, they will have to shut down senior middle blocker Chanice Harris, who averages 3.39 kills and 1 .62 blocks per game. 
Notre Dame .defeated the 
Huskies in three games this year, 15-9, 15-11, 15-7, and also defeated them last year in the second round. 
If Rutgers wins on Friday, the Irish will have to contend with two offensive forces. Scarlet Knight outside hitters Kera Carter an<l Lola Opadiran both average more than four kills a game. 
Rutgers enters the tourna­ment as the fourth seed, after finishing the season with a 15-13 record and an 8-3 mark in Big East play. The Irish beat Rutgers 15-7, 15-9, 15-7 earlier this year and hold a 6­0 all-tinie record against the Scarlet Knights. 
Georgetown will face the winner of the Prov.idence­Syracuse match on the other side of the bracket. The two teams left after Saturday's matches will face each other at noon on Sunday. 
The NCAA selection show will follow the tournament one week after the tourna­ment concludes Nov. 28 at 10 p.m. 
r 
ATTENTION STUDENTS: 

WHY SELL YOUR USED TEXTBOOKS BACK TO THE BOOKSTORE FOR 
LESS WHEN YOU CAN SELL THEM DIRECTLY TO ANOTHER STUDENT? 
CAMPUSMONSTER.COM ALLOWS STUDENTS TO SELL THEIR USED 
TEXTBOOKS TO OTHER STUDENTS. YOU WILL MAKE MORE MONEY 
AND YOUR FELLOW STUDENTS WILL SAVE MORE! IT'S THAT SIMPLE. 
LOG ON NOW AND LIST YOUR FALL SEMESTER TEXTBOOKS AND GET ENTERED FOR THE CHANCE TO WIN YOUR NEXT SEMESTERS BOOKS FOR FREE!!!! THAT'S RIGHT. WE WILL HOLD A DRAWING ON DECEM­BER i>O, 1999 TO FIND THE WINNER OF OUR" SEMESTER FOR FREE" CONTEST. YOU WILL RECEIVE 1 ENTRY FOR EVERY BOOK YOU LIST. THE MORE BOOKS YOU LIST THE BETTER YOUR CHANCES OF WIN­NING. 
WHEN YOU'RE THERE, GET THE LATEST SCOOP ON WHAT'S HAPPEN­ING AT YOUR COLLEGE OR AT CAMPUSES AROUND THE COUNTRY. THERE'S ALSO A SECTION WITH UP TO DATE SCORES AND COLLEGE NEWS. 
FROl\/1 TEXTBOOK SWAPPING, COLLEGE APPAREL ANO GAME TICKETS TO THE LATEST CAMPUS NEWS, IT'S ALL JUST A CLICK AWAY AT CAM­PUSMONSTER.COM 

PUSfflODSTBR.GOffli 
"If we don't have it, you can't get it!" 
J 
Curious about what to do this weekend? 
Wild Wild West 
Tonight & Saturday 
8pm & 10:30pm Cushing Auditorium 
$2 
www.nd.edu/~sub 


Java and Jazz 
Sunday, Nov. 21
,, 
11am-1pm LaFortune Ballroom 
Free coffee, bagels, donuts, OJ and hot chocolate, plus music by the David Hilliker Jazz Band. 
Friday, November l9, l 999 The Observer . SPORTS page 33 
SWIMMING 
Undefeated Irish face tough competition at Invitational 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE S.,im Marv's E,!iwr 
Shif'ti11g ~oars from dual­mn<'l competition, thP Irish wornon's swimming and div­ing toam !mads to thn U11ivcrsity of Minnosota in Minneapolis this WPflkend for the Mi111wsola Invitational. 
Af'Lnr notchi11g ,1 6-0 rncorrl in tho 1•arlv f'all s1wson, tlrn invitational ·gives Urn women a rhancn LO evaluate racci pat­l1•rns in a dmmpionship onvi­ronnwnt. 
"This rnally gives us the opporl.un ity to focus on sperif­ic nVPnts," said Irish lwad rnarh Bailey WPatlwrs.. "lt is a nitiral llll'Pl in li'rms of' how wo swim our rac11s. WP com­peln lww•r in ,~ championship 
environment. This serves as a dry run for championships, to mak<) sure that we havn the right athlctm, in each event." 
Coming off' wins against Pittsburgh, Miami of Ohio and Kenyon College last weekend, the Irish will battlc 14 teams in Minneapolis. 
Heturning to the meet after a third-place finish behind Minnesota and Wisconsin in 1998, Notre Dame will find its stiffest competition in No. 15 Wisconsin, No. 16 Minnesota, No. 17 Tennnssne, No. 24 lllinois and Iowa Statll. 
"Minnesota is clearly l'avorod to win the nwet," said Wcatlrnrs. "We simply won't have the numbers to compete with thnm. Obviously, they won't want to get bnat at home." 
"Minnesota is clearly Javored to win the meet. We simply do not have the numbers to compete . with them. Obviously, they won't want to get beat at home. " 
Balley Weathers Irish head coach 
The Irish will look to seniors Laura Shepard, Elizabeth Barger, Shannon Suddarth and Allison Lloyd to pull big finishes. 
Barger aud Suddarth each notched first-place finishes in last wcekend's tri-mect, with Barger capturing first in the 
400-medley  relay  and  
Suddarth winning the  200  
breastroke.  

"Our older kids have tradi­tionally been our leaders at this meet," Woathers said. "Because we take a smaller travelling squad, that's really important." 
Oiving will also be a point of strength, following a 1-2-3 finish at the invitational last year. 
Senior Gina Kctlehohn and sophomore Heather Mattingly will team up for top Irish div­ing finishes. 
Half of the Irish squad will be reslf1d for thc meet, improving chances for a strong finish. 
uUsually, we do rest some kids before this meet," Weathers said. "This gives them a chance to race in a championship environment and recover before exams to do well academically." 
Trials for the Minnesota Invitational begin this morn­ing. 
Meanwhile, thn men's swim­ming and diving team looks to post its first victory at home tonight at Hc.df's Aquatic Center. 
Dueling Western Ontario, the Irish enter Urn mm1t at 0-3 on the season. 
The last mooting betwocn the two schools took place on Oct. 27, 1997, with the Irish winning eight of 10 (wnnts. 
The meet, which is the old­est collegiato dual meet in the United States and Canada, has been won by Notre Dame 33 of 34 times. 
Turtle Creek 

Parking By Permit Only 
Friday 4:00 p.m. to Sunday 6:00 p.m. 
Towing By Mark's Towing 1505 W. Sample South Bend, IN 46619 
The multicultural Student Hffairs Office 
6 
The ftfrican 6 Rfrican-flmerican Studies Program proudly present 
African Dance & Drum Workshop 
By 
Boynarr Mamadou Sow, Master Instructor of West-African Dance & Drumming from Senegal 
Dates & Time: 
Friday Nov. 19 @ 4:30 PM 
& 
Sunday Nov. 21 @ 3:00 PM 
Venue: Ballroom/Lafortune 
c;Q-Spor:,sors: Office of the President & Campus Ministry, Kellogg lnst~tute, Center for Social Concerns, Music Department, Peace Studies Program, International Student Affairs Office, and Graduate Student Union. 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Belles focus on improving in opener 
By KATIE McVOY 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's basketball team looks to improve as it opens the 1999-2000 season 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used boolcs bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories ofBooks 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

•
Out-of-Print search service: $2.00 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232-8444 
against the Baldwin-Wallace 
Yellow Jackets in the Marcia 
French Tournament at 6 p.m., 
Friday, in Berea, Ohio. 
The Belles finished last sea­
son with a 4-20 record. This 
season offers them an oppor­
tunity to grow as individuals, 
as a team and as a varsity pro­
gram. 
"Last year we were very 
young and inexperienced," 
returning starter Julie 
Norman said. "At the end of 
last season, we saw a glimpse 
of what we could do. This year 
we are going to pick up where 
we left off and really 
improve." 
The Belles will face the 
Yellow Jackets under the guid­
ance of head coach Dave 
Roeder and assistant coach 
Doug Fox. Saint Mary's 
returns seven starters to the 
court, including six sopho­
mores. The Class of 2002 will 
be key to the Belles' program 
this year. 
"First and foremost, the sophomores are going to be the most significant part of our team this year," Norman said. "Now that they have a ·year of experience under their belts, they can really help 
rebuild this team." 
Roeder added, "We aren't going to make as many mis­takes this year because we are a more expcrienced team." 
The Belles are focusing on defense this season. 
"We are working on defense because we don't want to go 4-20 this season," !fonder said. 
Saint Mary's is currently ranked 9th in the MIAA; thiiy ,. plan to use that ranking to their benefit. 
"We are really going to sur­prise some people this year," Norman said. "The ninth-place ranking offers us a challenge to go out there and show peo­ple what we can do." 
The Belles are ready for a challenge and they will find it in Baldwin-Wallace. Under the guidance of head coach Cheri Harrer, the Yellow .Jackets are looking for their fifth-consecu­tive berth to the Division Ill National Tournament. They return 10 letter winners from last year's team. 
"We've been going over Baldwin-Wallace's offense and their press breaker," Norman said. "We've been working on all the little things so that we will be ready on Friday." 
r----------------, 
: ~ Shec1r f)ltlclZ~\ at : 
I "Contemporary Hair Styles 7 Days A Week" I I I
I (219) 271-7674 I 1811 South Bend Ave• South Bend, IN 46637 : 
I I ="""~---~ I I 
I M~F 9-8 I I SAT 9.5 I I SON 11-4 I 
I ----------------t I 
I ,------~ ..------I 1 1
TANNING
I $2.00 OFF I I HAIRCUT! SESSIONS 1 I 10 FOR $10 I 
I ~------I
.________J 
I WALKING DISTANCE TO CAMPUS I I (coupon expires 12110/99) I
L ________________ J 


page 34 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, November 19, 1999 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish gear up for season opener against Toledo 
By KERRY SMITH 
Assisrsnt Sporrs Editor 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team begins its quest for a national championship when it opens the regular sea­son against the Rockets of the University of Toledo Saturday. 
Returning four starters, as well as four out of five of the t1rnm ·s top scorers, from last season. the Irish enter the sea­son as a team to beat. 
Notre Dame currently is ranked seventh and ninth in the Associated Press and ESPN/USA preseason polls, respectively. While the Irish were ranked in the top 10 in national polls for 16 consecu­tive weeks last year, this season marks the first time they have started a season ranked in sin­gle-digits. 
The Irish have seen floor time twice this season, earning "ic­tories in two home exhibition matches earlier this month. 
Freshman guard Alicia Ratay made her mark on the team early, as she led the squad in scoring in both contests. Ratay and her potent three-point shot will replace the only gap in the Irish starting line-up from last year -the vacancy left by three-point record holder Sheila Macmillan. 
Senior Niele Ivey returns to ., the court against the Rockets after a season-ending ACL 
• 
RED 
RTME 

..., 
-
... 
injury sidelined her in last year's NCAA tournament. Ivey and Ratay. along with Danielle Green, Imani Dunbar, Monique Hernandez and Amanda Barksdale will combine for a productive back court. 
At the post. junior center Ruth Riley will continue to anchor the Irish offense. Well on her way to breaking into the 1,000 point club this season, Hiley will be a pivotal player both on offense and defense. 
Last season Riley led the Irish in scoring, averaging 16.6 points per game and rebound­ing, bringing an average of 8.4 balls down a game. She also set a school record with 101 blocked shots on the season. 

Sidelined by an injury to her right ankle which she sustained during practice last week, Riley will most likely return to the court in Saturday's season opener. 
Junior forward Kellev Seimon will also play a cruciai role for the Irish this season. 
The Irish travel to Toledo, looking for a repeat of last year's match-up, when they downed the Rockets 82-64. 
Led by senior center Jennifer Markwood, the Rockets offense will center around the post position. Markwood anchored the squad last season, averag­ing 10.5 points and 8.1 rebounds per game. 
The Irish and the Rockets are even in their series at 2-2 . 
Soccer 
continued from page 36 
a presence and a calming force on the field. All thr players look up to her and respond to the way she plays." 
Against Stanford, freshmen Nancy Mikacenic and Vanessa Pruzinsky started in on the back line for the Irish without much experience. Since that game, Mikacenic has been moved to. midfield to accommodate Grubb while Pruzinsky has developed into a strong defender and earned Big East Rookie of the Year honors. 
Two more freshmen have worked their way into the Irish lineup as the season has pro­gressed. Ali Lovelace and Ashley Dryer are quick, explosive play­ers who add depth and excite­ment to the Irish attack. Lovelace has been especially hot lately, scoring three goal'> in the Big East Championships. 
The Cardinal has juggled its lineup during the season as well. Senior Ronnie Fair has moved from the back line to the mid­field for the Irish while Peggy Myers and Allyson Marquand are starting for Stanford. 
The Cardinal advanced to the third round thanks to a victory qver Cal Poly, 3-1. The Irish earned a berth in the third round after defeating the Dayton Flyers, 5-1. The exhibition game gave both teams a glimpse of the opponent's talent and some of its strategy, but neither team should expect the results to be the same, according to Waldrum. 

"I think the only thing it will do for both of us is let us see up close what kind of talent each team has," Waldrum said. "Both of us will have a better idea of what each othflr has, but I don't think the result of that game will havp, any bearing with what's going to happen on Friday. I think it is going to be a great game and it will be a battle to the fmish." 
The third round game kicks off at 7 p.m. today on Alumni Field. 

Pick up your a~~s pep-rally hats 
at the Eck Center 
Today and Tomorrow 
in the Alumni Office 



Friday, November 19, 1999 The Observer . TODAY page 35 
EUGENIA LAST
CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 27" to Hold" 57 It's 4.28 light (1943 musical years away
1 Afraid of being romance) 59 Like cornstalks 
shot 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Over­31 Clock watcher's 60 Self publisher DAY: Ted Tumer, Jodie Foster, Meg spending should be your main con­
10 Bruce 
wait, seemingly 61 One may have a Ryan, Larry King, Dick Cavett, cern. Do not get involved in financialSpringsteen 
32 Blessing ring Ahmad Rashad ventures. Children may cost youaffiliation 
Happy Birthday: Go with the more than necessary. Extravagance
36 ZIP codes: 62 Takes a load off 
15 Skin tone flow and the year ahead will be high­and escapist tendencies are likely.
Abbr. the back 
ly successful for you. Acceptance will 000
16 Tantara 
37 Dustup lead to the realization that you are UBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Dishar­17 Home 38 Prefix with tone DOWN able to reach levels of success you mony will lead to minor illness. You economics 1 Untrustworthy did not realize were attainable. It's need to relax. However, it's not likely 
39 Billy Joel, self-
types time to jump to it and take advan­that your family will allow you that
19 Raison d'~tre of referentially 
tage of the opportunities that are sit­privilege. Go out by yourself if possi­
many annual 2 Scores
41 Feelings ting right in front of you. Your mun­ble and do the things you used to
conventions 3 Peggy Wood's 
42 Shakespearean bers: 8, 13, 19, 27, 33, 48 enjoy.000
title role on 50's
20 People person? verb ARIES (March 21-April 19): You SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21):
TV 
will have to rely on your charm if Don't let relatives interfere. You can
21 Where to spend 43A.T.M. mfr. 
4 Glenn Miller you want to keep things amiable at ask for their advice, but don't let 
a kip 
44 Source of protege Ray home. Channel your efforts into them interrogate your mate. It is best 22 Thomas ornamental 5 Believer in reaeational events to ensure that you to lay your cards on the table and let Gibson's sitcom plumes keep everyone you live with busy. your partner know where you stand 
Africa as the title role 46 Stucco backing Promised land 000 
andwhy.000 TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Take SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec.
23 Recipient of a 48 Gymnast Korbut 6 Nolan Ryan, 
the bull by the horns and start the 21): You probably will be bouncingstop order? 50 Shell alternative notably ball rolling. Waiting for others will be off walls. Don't even try to make a 26 lead-in for 53 "The Mothers-7 Bachelor pads, a waste of time. You will learn the decision that will affect your person­stereotypically most through traveling to distant al life. Your changing attitude is
house or wife in-law" star 
8 "Gosh darn!" places. Different cultures will interest causing grief for everyone involved. you.000 00000
9 31-Across divs. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
10 Stand 
will enjoy socializing. Get involved Be careful not to divulge secrets that 
Pullie by Nancy Salomon 
1---41---J.-+--+-A URSA PSST 11 Dexterity in physical activities. You will be could hurt your reputation or some­ROTC UHOH 12 Pessimist's 26 Shady place 49 hand 54 Kind of income enlightened by the experiences you one's feelings. Look into ways that word have while traveling. Educational you can take your creative abilities
MAH FADE 28 Relative of a 50 Small detail? 55 Highland
13 "Giovanna goldeneye interests will lead to taking courses. and use them in a profitable manner. 51 It flows for 0000 00
tongue
d'_"(Verdi opera) 56 Coll. hoops
29 Compact stuff 1,575 miles CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 30 High-hatter mood swings will cause problems Become involved in activities that 
14 One may exert 52 Myrna played competitions 
with your personal partner. Don't let can be enjoyed by both young and
33 Hlusory
pressure her 58 Prefix with your workload pusn you past a point old alike. You should try making
34 Right or left
18 Thought 53 H.S. class puncture of being civil; if you need help, ask some of your gifts this year. Put your originators 35 Gave up for it. 00 talents to use. 0000 
22 Twilight, old­
40 Wild sweet LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Relation­PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Sud­william and Answers to any three clues in this puzzle ships will develop on trips. Your den romantic connections may be
style moss pink are available by touch-tone phone: 
emotional reaction will depend on short-lived. Keep your eyes and ears
23 States' rights 
your partner. You will be enticed by alert for any evasive or deceptive
45 W.W. II rifle 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Amendment 
someone who can provide you statements. Don't bother retaliating; ---+--+--1 24 Stir 47 Niacin and Annual subscriptions are available for the with both mental and physical just walk away and learn from the ---+--+---1 25 Cartographic vitamin C best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 stimulation. 00000 experience. 000 closeup 48 Roasters years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
Fox TROT 
ICtOS, I REALLY 1'4EED 'l'ou To HELP CLEAN UP 'TWE HouSE 1l-llS WEEI<. 
I 
1/ WHY? 
I 
BECAUSE YoUR G~D­
MO'Tl-lER'S CcMING AND 
IT'S 1M~TANT THAT IT'S Sf'oTLESS WHEN SHE 
'! GETS HERE. 
IJ 
I 
f 
I 
i 
TOM KEELEY 
~N l'/l(.T1 \(OV 131:AT 11'.c ?U,81~(:, ~INS.TlfOV IS 1,T EVi;r.'{,-1-l\lJf, kY :l°IJ.Si" "foo l"\U!.ll OF A NER CONS(.IE"-'C.E: 7"EU.S -ntREAT ,o l"l\4 MMIUNEi;6 
r SHolJ(,I) BE 81:'.lli ~AT 
Wl:ll, SEO.USE o1H~SE 
SHE'LL TAKE IT uPoN HERSELF To CLEAN THE WHOLE Hoo~E FoR us, 
/'.NI> WE 0<>1n WA"4T nt"T. 
I 
BILL AMEND 
I SA10, Loo'<, PIE LET WE DoN'T loST MY ROOM WANT THAT! BECAIISE GET ' YoU MESSY 
,;/ HAVE ON 
IILJ'•-...... •· _. 
"1SS1>ES'.'.. PuRPoSE. 
\ 
\ 
A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD JEFF BEAM 
the <;,tctnddrd dr-i.ft +h~ Shea j(. 

-
The 4 forms of lecture naps. 
beam.1@nd.edu 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of' information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year D Enclosed is $45 for one semester Name --------------------------­Address -------------------------­
City _______ State ____ Zip_____ 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Set for Victory 
Mary Leffers. who earned the 1999 Big East Player of the Year award. leads the Irish into the NCAA tourna­ment semifinals on Saturday.
PORTS 
page 32 
O
THE 
page 36 BSERVER 

MEN 's BASKETBALL 
Irish light up court in I 07-96 win over Siena 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Spom Writer 
The excitement is running high for Notre Dame men's bash1tball. 
First-year head coach lvlatt Doherty has led the Irish to a 2-0 start and the semi­finals of the Pre-season NIT with a 107-96 
-
win over Siena last night. 
"The balance tonight was key because they really couldn't focus on any one play­er, .. sophomore forward Troy Murphy said. "They opened it up so much for Harold [Swanagan} and I to operate inside by their three-point shooting and that's what's bet<>n winning games for us -their three-point shooting." 
Murphy, sophomore forward David Graves, senior guard Martin Ingelsby and freshman guard Matt Carroll spread out the offense for Notre Dame, all scoring in double figures. 
Murphy set the tempo for the Irish early, scoring seven of the first 10 points for the blue and gold to put them up 10-7. 
The Saints used a full-court press against the Irish, which forced 11 turnovers in the first 11 minutes, keeping the game close. 
"I was disappointed that we didn't exe­
cute, but we'll work those kinks out," Doherty said. "I think we've got to just be strong handling the ball and be more decisive." 
The Irish took the lead for good with nine minutes remaining in the first half, but senior forward Marcus Faison kept the Saints in the contest. He was the go-to guy for Siena, putting up 13 points and snagging four boards in the first stanza. 
At halftime, the Irish were ahead 50-41, thanks to nine players scoring in the even Irish attack. 
Several freshmen had significant playing time, much more than in Notre Dame's 59-57 win at Ohio State Tuesday. 
.... 
see IRISH/page 30 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Irish meet Cardinal in round three 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Associate Spores Writer 
Four months ago on a swelter­ing August night, the Notre Dame women's soccer team defeated the Stanford Cardinal, 4-0, in an exhibition game. Tonight, on a cold November night, those two teams meet again in the third round of the NCAA tournament. 
-
But Irish head coach Randy Waldrum doesn't believe the exhibition game will play any role in tonight's game because both teams have evolved 
throughout the season. "I think we are probably both different, Waldrum said. "At
n 
that point in time in the season we were both looking at differ­ent positions and trying to get a handle on things. I don't think that anything that happened at that point in the season will have any bearing Friday night." 
The Irish have completely jug­gled their lineup since August. Senior captain Jen Grubb moved from the midfield back to her more natural defense position. Waldrum said Grubb's move has made the team more organized on defense. 
"It helped solidify some orga­nization things we were strug­gling with early on," Waldrum said. "Mainly with her leader­ship qualities that she brings to the table. She had been doing a great job in the midfield and that's ideally were we wanted to put her but based on her leader­ship capabilities we thought she would be better in the back. We didn't do that until five or six games into the season and that will be something different." 
While Grubb changed posi­tions early in the season, senior Jenny Streiffer moved from for­ward to midfield later in the sea­son. Junior midfielder Anne Makinen was not even in the lineup back in August, when she was training with the Finnish national team. Makinen is another leader who makes the Irish a more explosive team, according to Waldrum. 
"I think Anne adds a whole new dimension to your team," Waldrum said. "She is certainly one of the best players in the country and probably one of the best players qt the world. I think most national team coaches would tell you that. She has such 
sec SOCCERJpage 34 

FOOTBALL HISTORY 
Gordon dashes ND's title chances in '93 
By TIM CASEY 
Sports Writer 
David Gordon currently makes his living as a general contractor, building houses in Connecticut. 
The destroyer of a perfect Notre Dame season is now a successful builder. 
How appropriate. 
Exactly six years ago on Saturday. Gordon, then a Boston College junior place kicker, ruined Notre Dame's chances for their 12th national title when he con­nected on a 41-yard field goal with five seconds left. It was the longest kick of his career. 
Gordon still vividly recalls that November afternoon when he went from a little known kicker to a national figure. 
"The gold from Touchdown Jesus was the only thing I could really see," Gordon said earlier this week on the phone. "It was getting really dark and the sun was set­ting." 
"I always pick a spot to aim at," Gordon added. "And Touchdown Jesus was my spot." 
Is it a coincidence that ever 
see FOOTBALL/page 29 
Women's Soccer • Women's Swimming Women's Swimming • vs. Boston College NCM Third Round ar Minnesota Invitational Wabash College I nvire Saturday, 2:30 p.m. 
Sr e
SPORTS ·~· :. 
vs. Stanford Friday-Sunday Saturday, l Oa.m. 
Friday, 7:30 p.m. 
ATA EB 
Wmm:n's Basketball vs. Toledo
NCAA Track and Field • Voll1:yball • 
ar Baldwin-Wallace College . Rig East Tournament Semifinals . Friday-Saturday, TBA Saturday, noon
GLANCE • Championships Saturday, 6 p.m. 
Friday-Saturday 

NSIDER 
Friday, November 19, 1999 OBSERVER Notre Dame vs. Boston College 

KICK-OFF FORECASTINSIDE 
game preview.......... ....page 2 
record: s-5 

record: 7-2 
focus on Boston College.page 3 
home: s-r home: 4-1
vs. 
rosters....................... .page 4 
away: 0-4 away: 3-1 
~ 
college games today.. ..page 6 
game time: 2.-30 p.m. NlJ time pregame commentary...page 7 
weather: chance <fshowers, highs in the low 50s 
page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 19, 1999 
game hype 
Bowl bid on the line for Irish 
By KERRY SMITH Assistanc Sports Editor 
The Irish, corning off a disappointing loss to the Pittsburgh Panthers last weekend, return to Notre Dame Stadium for their final home game of the season when they take on the Eagles of Boston College Saturday. 
Looking to scrape together enough wh1s to be eligible for a howl game, the 5-5 lrish cannot afford another loss in their two remaining games. 
"Obviously this is a big game for us," said head coach Bob Davie. "Boston College comes in 7 and 2. We have got a chance to finish this season on a posi­tive and that is our goal right now." 
Numerous injuries to the Irish in the past few weeks have left the squad without much depth on the sidelines. Despite the possible loss of several key players for this week's matchup, Davie is confident that the lrish can earn their sixth win of the season over the Eagles. 
"We have enough players and game plan to go beat Boston College," said Davie. " ... If you look at it closely. on defense, our starting defensive unit is pretty much intact. Our problem's real­ly the depth and the backups where there are none arul then it trickles into the special teams. Offensively, it is a concern because we have throe new linemen in there ... We need every ounce of juice we have on this football team." 
In addition to the loss of left tackle Jordan Black and tailback Terrence Howard after the Tennessee game, the Irish will also be without left guard Jim Jones and right tackle John Teasdale this week. 
Julius Jones, Deke Cooper and Anthony Denman have not practiced yet this week, but are still scheduled to take the field Saturday. 

Boston College comes to Notre Dame riding high after a 34-17 routing of West Virginia, which vaulted the Eagles into the national rankings, for the first time since the 1994 campaign, at the 25th spot. 
The Eagles have much riding on this game -a win would virtually secure the squad a spot in either the Gator or Insight.com bowl in the postseason. 
If the Irish plan to come away with a victory, they will need to shut down Boston College's quarterback Tim Hasselback and the Eagle offense. 
"They do throw the football down the field. They do throw it vertically," said Davie. "They have got a talented group of receivers; particularly No. 11 is a guy that I think is an explosive player and the quarterback is playing well." 
Hasselback and No. 11 wide receiver, Dedrick Dewalt, have combined to make a potent duo throughout the sea­son. Hasselback has thrown to Dewalt for 36 receptions and three touchdowns in nine games. 
Notre Dame has an 8-2 edge in its series with Boston College and has come out on top in the teams' last four meetings. 

Bob Davie Irish head coach 
"/ assume we will be heading into an angry place.·· 

Bobby Brown wide receiver 
"We've got a couple more games to play. We can't quit now. We started it, we've got to finish it.,, 
'1t's important to be a better team at the end ofthe season than you were al the beginning. ,. 

Tom O'Brien Eagles head coach 
"We'ue got to 
play like Notre 
Dame football 
players and 
beat the hell 
out ofBoston 
College.·· 

Imagine owning a piece of one of the most famous ballparks in the world! 
©wu@~@~~ tru@Ocfl @fl C!JC?@G:l[ill~ooaWC?.§.©~ C?u@OWo 

Actual Stadium Seats 
0wN THEM ALL GREAT HOLIDAY GIAS AND STOCKING STUFFERS 
fHE 13EST SPORIS /\\EMORABIUA TO ADD TO /\Ny SPORIS CoLLEOION 
Pricing From $24.95 to $650.00 Including Shipping and Handling Stop by our store at The Stadium Seats Store• 810 W. Irving Park Road• Chicago, IL 60613 
(773) 404-7975. 
Nation wide shipping available •All major credit cards accepted • Layaways Welcome 
Please Visit Our Website @ www.stadiumseats.com Visit Our Friends at A & R Collectibles An Extensive Line of Sports Memorabilia 847-459-0076 • www.arcollectibles.com • 888-667-7767 
Friday, November 19, 1999 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
EYE ON THE ENEMY 
Eagles to test depleted Irish secondary 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Assocbtc Sports Editor 
An injurnd an(! oxhaustcd Irish secondary l'acHs another still' test this wNik from a group or explosive wide receivers Saturday whnn the Euglns visit Notre Dame Stadium. 
Boston College lrns thrne play­ors -Du.Juan llanil'ls. Jamal Burke and Dnrrick Criltenden ­who av11rug(1 1H1arly 20 yards pPr rncnption. That is bad news l'or an Irish secondary that was torclwd for l'tiur plays or more than 20 yards against lhe Pantlrnrs last Saturdav. Considnring that the Panthers 011ly eompl<1t11d IO passns on the day, thosc four hig plays stand out 11vcn morn. 
Those big plays allowed the l'antlwrs to have groat success against Uw Irish on third down. Tim Pantlrnrs worn successful Oil 4(1 p11rccni or their third down convorsiorn,. If the Irish cannot stop thn big play and stop the Eagles on third down, they will not. hc able to stop the explosive Boston College offense. 
"I havfl a hard time winning when opponents arc 46 percent on third down," Davie said. 
Daniels could be the most explosive of the Fagles recnivers. Since moving to offense before Boston College took on Navy, Daniels has caught snven passes f'or 1 ~9 yards including a 64-yard touch­down catch against the Midshipmen. 
"They have gut a talented group or rccnivers," navie said. "Parlicularly No. 11 [Daniels] is an explosivn player." 
In addition to the speedy thrnats of Daniels, Burke and Crillnnden. thl' Eagles also have a st.nady receiving thrtrnt in Dedrick Dewalt. Dnwalt has caught 3(1 pass()S for 496 yards and thrnn touchdowns so far in 1999. 
Trying lo stop this talented and deep group will be an Irish secondary that is bruised and battered entering the final home gamn of tlrn season. Free safety Deke Cooper missed practice time this week and might not be 100 percent for his lasl home game. Cornerbacks Deveron 

fast facts 
ABOUT BOSTON COLLEGE 
. 
Location: Chestnut Hill, Mass. . Enrollment: 14,600 . Founded: 1863 

. 
Colors: Maroon and Gold 

. 
Nickname: Eagles 

. 
Conference: Big East 

. 
Fight song: "For Boston" 


Harper and Clifford Jefforson are also banged up but expected to play. Starting strong safety A'Jani Sanders is also expected in play through his bumps and bruises. 
While the starters in the sec­ondary arc healthy enough to play, the nkkf,I and dime backs ure devastated by injuries and suspensions. Brock Williams and Lee Lafayette are off the team due to discipline masons while freshmen Jason Rcckstrom and Albert Poree, sophomore Shane Walton and Juniors .l~'ltin Smith and Ron [sracl arc all expected to miss tho game. 
Due to all the injuries, Davie moved Sanders to the nickel back in passing situations and usod freshman Gerome Sapp as the strong saf'llty. Sophomore l)onald Dykns also playfld some in nickel situations. Both Sapp and Dykes' inexperience, howev­er, was exposed by the Panthers. 
Although they arc injured, Davie does not plan on changing the Irish defensive scheme. 
"It is too late in the season to start doing a whole lot of differ­ent things," Davie said. 
. Six years ago Saturday, Boston College defeated Notre Dame to spoil a chance of a national title in 
1993. 
. Boston College and Notre Dame are the only two Div.-1 Catholic universities playing college football. 
Domino's Delivery  
Store Hours:  271-0300  
Sunday -Thursday  
11 am -2 am  
Friday & Saturday  
11 am -3 am r-..........I ,..._ ..........I ~ .....,/ 6.9n I I l :, I I 1..... 1; c,,-9e I I Op,_.. I I 1:)( . "'IJr. I 1 Pires 1 .:I / 4-,. 2119/99,..._ I ',...., I ------.  r-..........I ,..._ ,,I s ..... ..,/ ~!)n I I k--t :, I ' 1,-,. a,.9e , I Op/Jit, I I tx~· '9 11J... ,.,,res 1 ,..._ 2119199 I ',...., I ..... ,__,  

page 4 
1999 FIGHTING IRISH 
Schedule  
Aug.28  KANSAS  W48-13  
Sept. 4  at Michigan  L26-22  
Sept. 11  at Purdue  t 28-23  
Sept. 18  MICHIGAN STATE  L23-13  
Oct. 2  OKLAHOMA  W34·30  
Oct. 9  ARIZONA STATE  W48-17  
Oct. 16  USC  W25-24  
Oct. 30  NAVY  W28-24  
Nov, 6  at Tennessee  l 38-14  
Nov. 13  at Pittsburgh  L3H7  
Nov.20  BOSTON COLLEGE  
Nov.27  at Stanford  


third season at Notre Dame 
career record: 
21-14 
at Notre Dame: 
21-14 
Bob Davie against Boston head coach College:2-0 
Roster 
No. Name Pos. Ht. 
1 DekeCooper FS 6-2 2 CarlOi> Pierre-Antoine fl.B 6-3 3 Amaz Battle QB 6-1 4 Jamaar Taylor WR 6-0 5 A'Jani Sanders FS 5-10 6 David Givens SE 6-1 7 Jarious Jackson QB 6-1 8 l~thony Brannan OLB 5-10 9 RakiNelson FL 5-11 9 Dwayne Francis DB . 6-0 JO Deveron Harper CB 5-11 11 Jay Johnson SE 6-0 12 Tony Fisher RB 6-2 13 Nick Setta KIP 6-0 14 James Caputo 6-1
p 14 Dan Novakov QB 6-3 15 Clifford Jefferson CB 5-9 16 Glenn Earl DB 6-1 16 john Shingler TE 6-2 17 Joey Hildbold PIK 5-11 17 Jeremy Juarez FB 5-11 18 joey Getherall FL 5-7 19 jim-Sanson K 5-9 20 Gerome Sapp DB 6-0 21 Javin Hunter FL 6-0 22 Julius/ones RB 5-11 23 Chris Yura RB/DB 5-11 24 Alberv Poree DB 5-10 27 Jason 'Beckstrom DB 5-10 28 Donald Dykes ss 5-11 28 Mike Grady FS 5-11 29 Justin Smith FS 5-11 30 Rocky Boiman OLB 6-4 32 Terrance Howard TB 6-1 33 Courtney Watson RB 6-2 34 Ronnie Nicks !LB 6-0 35 David Miller K-P 5-11 35 Tim O'Neill TB 5-5 36 Tom Lopienski FB 6-1 37 Ron Israel ss 6-0 39 Anthony Denman ILB 6-2 39 Chris Leck ss 5-9 40 Jason Murray FB 6-1 40 Brendan Farrell ILB 5-9 41 Joe Ferrer OLB 6-2 42 Shane Walton CB 5-11 44 Grant Irons DE 6-5 45 Joey Goodspeed FB 6-0 46 Andrew Dempsey TE/DE 6-2 47 MikeMc.i1\l'air FB 6-0 48 Johnathan Hebert SE 5-11 50 Cedric Hilliard DL 6-3 51 Tyreo Harrison !LB 6-2 si Jeff Faine OL 6-3 53 Lamont Bryant DE 6-3 54 B.J.Scott C 6-3 55 Jim Jones 0G 6-3 56 Pat Ryan lB 6-3 56 John Crowther LS 6-2 57 Justin Thomas LB 6-2 57 Luigi Rao LB 5-10 58 Brendan O'Connor 0G 6-2 60 Darrell Campbell DL 6-4 61 Mike Zelenka FB 6-0 62 Casey Robin OT 6-7 63 Brennan Curtin OL 6-8 63 Mike Tribe !LB 5-10 64 John Merandi C 6-3 65 Sean Milligan OL 6-4 66 JW Jordan C 6-.l 67 Ryan Gillis OL 6-3 68 Matt Brennan OT 6-6 69 Mike Gandy 0G 6-4 70 J1m Molinaro DL 6-7 71 NetlAmbron OL 6-7 72 Ryan Scarola OL 6-5 74 RobMowl 0G 6-5 75 KurtVollcrs 01 6-7 76 John Teasdale OT 6-6 77 Brad Williams DT 6-4 78 Jordan Black OT 6-6 79 Sean Mahan OT 6-4 80 Gary Godsey TR 6-7 8..1 Patrick Reynolds WR 5-11 84 John Owens TE 6-3 85 Antwnn Jones DT 6-2 85 Mark Rule WR/QB&-2 86 Dan O'Learv TE 6-4 87 Jabari Hnll.;way TE 6-4 88 Bobbv Brown R 6-2 89 Ceti'l!d Morgan TE 6-4 90 Lance Legree DT 6-1 91 N. VanHook-Dmckcr DE 6-2 94 AndyWisne DT 6-3 95 Rv,m Robert, DE 6-2 98 /\.nthony Weaver DT 6-3 98 Eric Glass DT 6-4 99 Jason Crung DE 6-3 
Wt. 
220 
245 
215 200 197 217 228 215 180 189 187 191 225 160 193 210 182 185 252 175 250 176 187 
no· 
185 185 195 185 185 197 200 190 245 193 205 240 190 163 259 205 230 192 260 232 235 185 272 250 252 242 199 295 235 310 265 285 307 220 245 230 208 292 245 218 311 295 220 300 285 277 315 305 292 240 275 
303" 
295 299 306 288 
313 
285 
255 
184 
246 283 218 260 260 193 261 296 271 270 260 270 252 267 
YR 
SR 50 50 FR SR 
so 
SR SR SR 
so 
SR SR 
so 
FR SR FR 
so 
FR SR FR JR JR SR FR 
so 
FR FR FR FR 
so 
SR 
JR 
so 
so 
FR 
SR 
so 
so 
so 
JR 
JR SR 
JR 
SR SR 
so 
JR 
SR JR 
so 
SR 
FR 
so 
FR 
SR SR SR FR 
so 
FR 
JR 
JR 
so 
JR JR 
FR 
JR 
SR FR 
JR 
FR SR SR FR FR 
50 
SR 
JR 
JR 
SR so so FR so 
FR SR SR SR 
JR SR so SR SR fR 
so 
so 
SR 
SR 
The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 19, 1999 
1999 EAGLES
IN POSITION: offensive line 
Schedule 
Sept. 4 BAYLOR W30-29 Sept. 18 at Navy W14-10 Sept. 25 at Rutgers W27-7 Oct. 2 NORTHWESTERN W33-22 Oct. 9 at Temple L24-14 Oct. 16 PITTSBURGH W20-16 

third season at Boston College 
career record: 
15-16 
at Boston College:
JOHN DAILYIThe Observer 
15-16
Tight end Jabari Holloway (87) and guard Mike Gandy (69) are two of the Tom O'Brien against Notre
healthy members of a depleted offensive line that faces the Eagles this week. head coach Dame: 0-2 

Line battles injuries, youth 
Observer Staff Report 
The Irish entered tbis season with inexperiPnce along the otfonsive line. With just one returning starter from 1998, Notre Dame had to completely rebuild its front wall. 
Throughout the season, the line has shown some improvement but still had a long way to go. First-year starters Jim 

Roster 
;~~.">
22-Jones . . ·· · 
FULLBACK 
45-Good!J!eed 
36-Lopienski 
RIGIH TAGXLE 
79•MallaR . 63-Curtln 
TIGHTEND 
87'11ollowat 
ll&O'Laary 
. FLANKER 
IMlllWall 
n-Oalliets 
r' ! 
'II / 
. \:,, 
Jones, John Teasdale, Jordan Black and Mike Gandy had finally started to gel with returning starter John Merandi before disaster struck. 
Jones, Teasdale and Black are all out for the year with injuries. In their place, Ryan Scarola, Sean Mahan and Kurt Vollers have gained starting assign­ments. These three new players must step up for the Irish offense to have any success Saturday. 
SPLl1ENA·.' .
M-Bmm 
,21·HUQ!·B···.r , .... · . . / 
LEFT TACI\(£ . . . ' 
:.~iit-. . .. ·• // 
tEfTGt1AA0° 
12-Scarola 58-0'Coo.nor . 
No, Name Por,;, HI. l WilliJmGrecn RB 6-1 2 Bnan St. Pierre QB 6-3 3 PedroOrino DB 5-11 4 Carlton Rowe RB 5-10 5 J.D. Schmidt QB 6-3 6 RaMon Johnson DB 5-11 7 Tim Hasselbeck QB 6-2 8 Jason Smith WR 6-0 9 Derrick Crittenden WR 6-0 10 Kevin Kiley QB 6-3 11 Dedrick Dewalt WR 5-9 12 Keith Hemmings QB 6-3 13 William Poole DB 5-11 14 Greg Ruder QB 6-3 15 Kenney Gaskins WR 5-9 16 Greg Toal LB 6-0 17 Steve Dapra WR 5-11 18 Doug Bessette DB 5-11 19 Dave Robbins QB 6-0 20 Derrick Knight RB 5-9 21 Trevor White DB 5-10 22 Nick Chakmakian LB 6-2 23 JohnMatich PK 6-2 
24 Ralph Parent 
24 HiMorn 
25 D.). Sutton 
26 Curtis Bolden 
27 Paul Cook 
28 Jonathan Ordway 
29 Chris Barnes 
30 Emmerson Phillips 
31 Derek Hixon 
32 DuJuan Daniels 
33 Brandon Kelly 
34 Mike Sutphin 
35 Cedric Washington 
36 Brian flores 
37 EmiePimpo 
38 Kevin Costello 
39 Matt Tower 
39 High Tower 
40 George White 
41 Marco Williams 
42 Joe Mickens 
43 J.P. Comella 
44 Frank Chamberlin 
45 Josh Ott 
46 David Coppola 
47 Kevin McMyler 
48 Ryan Utzler 
49 Matt Smith 
50 Paul LaQuerre 
51 Jerome Ledbetter 
WR BC DB DB DB DB WR DB 
RB 
WR DL PK RB DB LL DB RB 1'A DB 
LB 
LB 
FB 
LB LB WR 
p 
FB RB OL LB 
52 Andrew RomanowskyLB 
53 Todd McKnifl DL 
54 Scott Bradley LB 
55 Steve Marlin LB 
56 Joe Winkels DE 
57 fohn Colontrel!e LB 
58 DerricRossy LB 59 Anthony Possemato DL 60 Bill Ohl OL 61 Phil Martin C 62 John Richardson OL 63 Mike Callahan LB 64 Keith Leavitt DL 65 Michael Cook OL 66 Paul Zukauskas OL 67 Rudy Dipietro OL 68 Adam Anderson p 69 Frankie Wilpert OL 70 Dan Murphy OL 71 Leo Bell OL 72 Butch Palaza OL 73 Mark Parenteau OL 74 Jim Connor OL 75 Marc Columbo OL 76 Darnell Alford OL 77 Dan Koppen OL 78 Augie Hoffmann OL 79 Matt Knapp OL 80 MikeGuazzo TE 81 Josh Cervi TE 82 Rolwrl Ellis TE 83 Shaun Tuof WR 84 Jamal Burke WR 85 Antonio Garey DL 86 Brvan Arndt fE 87 Fr~nk Misurell DL 88 Adam Newman DL 89 K.J. Turkson DB 89 Sean Ryan TE 90 Tom Martin DE 91 Mickey Ryan SNP 92 Adam Grace DL 93 Leonard Bennett OL 94 Kevin Crane DL 95 Chris Hovan DL 96 Ryan Burch RB 97 Pat Knalb UL 98 Mike Willetts DL 99 Petey Dalum MD 99 Sean Guthrie D1 
6-2 
1-2 
5-8 
6-1 5-11 5-10 5-10 6-0 6-3 5-11 6-2 6-3 5-10 5-11 4-3 5-9 5-9 6-9 6-1 6-1 6-0 6-1 6-1 6-1 5-10 6-1 6-1 5-11 6-3 6-2 6-2 6-4 6-1 6-2 6-5 6-0 6-3 5-11 6-l 5-6 6-3 6-5 6-8 6-5 6-6 6-5 4-11 6-6 6-6 6-6 6-4 6-5 6-5 6-8 6-4 6-3 6-2 6-5 
6-3 
6-3 6-4 5-11 6-0 
6-4 
6-4 6-5 6-5 6-0 6-5 6-5 6-8 6-3 6-0 6-4 6-3 6-3 6-3 6-4 6-5 6-4 
Wt. 220 201 201 211 225 188 212 193 183 200 175 213 185 210 166 200 177 205 210 185 180 225 208 206 201 158 221 190 178 178 192 220 170 253 203 201 195 460 180 212 260 197 211 219 215 250 195 191 192 236 189 291 210 227 253 219 232 285 220 241 195 200 130 279 266 290 310 318 300 125 275 268 275 298 290 270 
298 
339 288 315 308 248 241 261 173 196 287 255 225 250 195 258 250 350 258 235 267 290 248 248 261 350 245 Yr, FR 
so SR SR FR JR JR JR SR FR 
so 
SR FR JR 
so 
FR JR FR JR FR FR JR SR 
so 
MD JR 
so 
FR 
so 
JR 
so 
JR 
FR 
FR 
JR JR FR 
FC 
JR 
so 
BS SR 
so 
JR FR SR FR 
so 
JR 
so 
so 
JR FR 
so 
so 
so 
JR 
so 
JR 
so 50 JR 
FR 
so 
so 
FR JR JR 
FR 
so FR so 
FR SR 
FR 
FR so SR so 
FR rR JR so JR so so so 
SR FR SR 
so 
FR FR 
so 
JR FR 
so 
SR JR JR 
SR 
DIJ 
so 
Friday, November 5, 1999 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 5 
Weekend warrior plays through pain .. 
• Senior safety brings energy and enthusiasm to the Irish secondary 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 

Assistant Spun• Editor 
Sanders 
If onn player on lhe 1999 Irish football tnam uxudns ennr­position: strong safety gy and enthusiasm, il's senior year: senior strong safoty !\'Jani Sandnrs. 
awards: SuperPrep and Prep
"It's just a nrnntal thing," 
Football Report All­
Sunders said. "I just try to slay positivn all tho timo bncausn if' I American as senior in high don't, all these injurios I've got, school tlrny'n• going to get to me, and notables: had interceptionI've got to stay above that. I've 
returns for touchdowns 
got to play and be there for my 
against Arizona Slate in
teammatos whrrn they need 
nw." 1998 and 1999, leads Irish 
If any one player shows his in tackles with 76 love of' thn game by leaving it all on the linll Wllok after week 
despito countless injuries, it's Wn started losing -hey, we've
SandPrs. 
got a couple more games tu
If anybody can fin~ up the fans 
play. We can't quit now. We
and student body as lhA first 
started it; we've got to finish it.''
onn to raisfl his helmet in lront Although the Irish. predicted11ftho crowd, it's Sanders. 
to be among the top 25 tPams in If any playnr resists the temp­
the nation, slipped to a 5-5
tation to give up when times arn 
rncord, they're not ready to
tough, consistently motivating 
pack it in yet.
his teammates to kenp fighting, 
"We're shooting for some­
it's Sanders. 
thing," Sanders said. "It hurts
"I think he hnlps motivate when you lose, of course, buttlwm." secondary coach Lou 
we're all competitors and that'sWest said. "The biggest motiva­the competitive spirit in us. Yes,tion that lw dons is through his we came to Notre Dame for aactions." 
great education, but we also
Although Sandnrs has playnd came to play football and we've
with injurins for much ol' thn got two more football gamespast two years, ht~ doesn't use 
left. That's exactly what I planaches and bruises as excuses. 
to do -play football. 
"If I could play lrnallhy, I'd "We've got to try to send theprobably play better, but play­
seniors out with a bang, you
ing with injuries, that's part or know, win tho last game. Thistlrn game," Sandnrs said. "You 
01111 is going to stick in your
learn that from Littln League all mind forever," Sanders added.
llrn way up. You just learn to 
The Irish can become bowl­play with injurins and you go 
eligible with victories over
with what you've goL" Boston College and Stanford. To
Notrn Dame coaches recog­finish the regular season with
nizo Sanders' resilicmce as going consecutive wins, they will needabovn and bt1vond the line of' 
duty. . to come back from the disap­pointment of two straight losses
"Ile's btHrn a warrior," head on tl10 road.
foothall coach Bob Davie said. 
"Everything changes week to"lie is going to be wearing a week," Sanders said. "You can'tcast this woek. Ile is a guy that wnrry about the week before or
has bnen bnat up all year. 
the next week or the week after.
Actually, lw has been beat up You've got to gofor two years, 
out there and
but hn is a "You've got to go out there 
play for this
warrior all 
and play for this week. week. That's
the way." 
I lighlighting That:-; what I'm doing. what I'm doing, playing for this
tlrn Nolrn playing for this week_ And 
week. And if weDame dnfensu 
ifwe come up short, 1 left come up short, I
with a team­high thrne it on the field. " left it on the field. I left it
interceptions right there forand 76 tack­
A'Jani Sanders 
you. That's H,
les, Sanclnrs is 
strong safety my last game in
a role model 
Notrn Dame
!"or the Stadium."
youngnr guys on the tciam. 
Sanders, redshirted his fresh­
"B11i11g a senior, hn's done an 
man season, relies on some ofoutslandin!{ job of' leading not 
his follow seniors for motivation.
only the irncondary. but the 
In particular, he and free safety
dn!'1•11sn," w,ist said. "livery lit.thi 
D1ike Cooper push each other tothing that he does is very impor­play at tho highest level of com­tant." 
petition.
"I lonk at myself as bning a "Last year, wo were compet­l,•ador for thn younger guys," 
ing for the same position and it
Samlers said. "It's been rough 
was likl', anything you can do. Iand p11opl11 want to quit at. 
can do better," Sanders said.
Limns, bul you've got to realizn, "We just kind of kept that samewn'rp out horn to play football thing going whim Coach [Davie I and that's what we camo to do. 

put us at two different positions. So if Deke makes a play, I want to make a play, too, and I think that keeps us pretty strong together, keeps the secondary together. 
"We try to motivate each other," added Sanders. "When he's down, I try to pick him up, and when I'm down, he tries to keep me up." 
That teamwork helps Sanders and Cooper to make key plays on the field, the best example coming Oct. 9 against Arizona State. 
In that game, both Sanders and Cooper recorded key inter­ceptions. as did senior corner­back Deveron Harper. 
"I think he had a great. year," said Davie. "Each and every week hn plays -I think he has been outstanding." 
Sanders' 28-yard interception return for a touchdown was reminiscrmt of last year's show­down with the Su~1 Devils, in which he also snagged an inter­ception return for a touchdown. 
"Coach always says run to the ball. I just run to the ball," Sanders said. "Wherever the ball is, that's where you're going to see No. 5." 
During his career for the Irish, Sanders has captured eight interceptions and recorded 210 tackles. 
Although he also played bas­ketball, soccer and track as a prep student in llouston, Tex., football has always been his main love. If things work out, Sanders hopes to continue play­ing in the NFL after leaving Notre Dame. 
"I would hope that would be every college player's aspiration -to play football after col!Pge," Sanders said. "I've been playing football since I was 5. I wish I could play until I die." 
"I le is certainly a young man that will give all that he has and do all that he can to keep play­ing," West said. 
If a pro football earner should fall through, Sanders will have a Notre Dame education and degree to rt\ly upon. lie earned a 3.5 grade point averagn dur­ing the spring semester as a sociology and computer applica­tions major. 
"If football doesn't work out, them I got a great tiducation here," Sanders said. 'Tm lined up to graduate. I'm sum I'll feel pretty accomplishml in that." 
As Sanders gets ready to don an Irish uniform in Notrn Dame Stadium t'or the linal time as a player Saturday, he recognizes how much Notrn Damn football means to him. 
"Probably tho rirst Linw I ran out of the tunnel." Sandnrs said ol' his best athlnl.ic moment. "Now that I think about it, the last time is coming up soon, so it'll probably encl up lrning Saturday whm1 I run out of' that. tunnel." 
birthllate: Oct. 31. 1976 a word to describe him on the greatest personal athletic 
hometown: Houston. Tex. field: hitter moment: First and last time major: Sociology/CAPP a word to describe him off the running through the dimensions: 5-foot-10, 197 field: real tunnel at Notre /Jame 
up close & 
personal 
pounds greatest accomplishment off the Stadium. if I could play another position field: being prepared to People who have helped him WITH A'JANI SANDERS on the other side of the ball it graduate most at Notre Dame: God. would be: quarterback friends and family 
page 6 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 19, 1999 
,,. 
Irish experts 

Brian Kessler sports editor 
(29-11) 
NOTRE DAME MICHIGAN STATE FLORIDA GEORGIA 

Bill Hart associate editor 
(28-12) 
NOTRE DAME MICHIGAN· STATE FLORIDA MISSISSIPPI 

Mike Connolly associate editor 
(27-13) 
NOTRE DAME PENN STATE 
FLORIDA STATE GEORGIA 

Tim Casey 
football writer 
(30-10) 
NOTRE DAME MICHIGAN STATE 
FLORIDA 
MISSISSIPPI 
AROUND THE NATION 

KEVIN DALUM/The Observer 
Michigan State head coach Nick Saban leads his No. 15 Spartans against the Penn State Nittany Lions Saturday in a game that 
could decide the fate of many Big Ten teams and their bowl hopes. 
PSU looks to salvage season against MSU 
Observer Staff Report 
In his final press conference ever in the Beaver Stadium media room before reno­vation takes place, Joe Paterno sat under the lights and answered questions. 
But the things the Penn State coach was talking about, mainly on how his team will rebound from another loss, did not light him up. 
And he made sure the media knew of hjs djspleasure at his weekly press confer­ence Tuesday. 
"I know you guys don't like to hear this, but Michigan State might be the best team we play this year," Paterno said. "Michigan State is really playing well. Look at the last two football games. Their defense is No. 1 versus the run and their offense is dangerous. 
"Qbvjously, that doesn't light me up." 
But Penn State's rushing attack did light up the box score against Michigan in its 31-27 defeat on Saturday. 
The only problem is that it only was lit up seven times in 60 minutes of football, as the Nittany Lions rushed for an all-time low in the Paterno era. 
Not since UCLA held the Lions to a mea­ger 35 yards in 1966 has a Penn State ground attack fired so many blanks. 
With another seven-yard rushing day, the Lions can almost guarantee seeing their name lit up on the marquee of a bowl game -in Tampa or San Antonio. 
"Good defenses," Paterno gave as an explanation of the Lions rushing woes this season. "They are forcing you to throw the football 40 times in a game. That doesn't light me up." 
No. 1 Aorida State at Florida 
Unlike some of Saturday's rivalry games, Florida-Florida State needs no gimmick. It's not The Game or the Big Game or the Apple Cup. There are no barrels, baskets or buckets on the line, either. 
When the top-ranked Seminoles {10-0) and third-ranked Gators (9-1) meet in The Swamp, they'll play for one prize -a ticket to the national championship game. 
In four of the past six seasons, the 
Florida-Florida State winner has played for the national title. The teams even met for the title in the Sugar Bowl after the Seminoles beat the Gators in the '96 regu­lar season. 
Florida State won its only national title in 1993, while Florida won its champi­onship in '96. 
"We are looking forward to the game, a typical game," Gators coach Steve Spurrier said. "FSU is usually 10-0 or 9-1, we are usually 9-1. We have been 10-0 a couple times corning into it. Each team has an opportunity to keep on going in the national picture." 
If the Seminoles win, they are a virtual lock to finish first in the final BCS stand­ings, which determine the teams in its national title game {the Sugar Bowl on Jan. 4). If the Gators 'hin, they would then need to win the SEC title game on Dec. 4 to put themselves in a strong position to play for another championship. 
No. 21 Georgia at No. 16 Mississippi 
After tumbling seven spots in the poll following another loss, No. 21 Georgia will try to salvage the remainder of its season when it heads to Oxford to take on No. 16 Mississippi. 
Georgia (6-3, 4-3 SEC) leads the overall series, 24-12-1, and has won the last two contests. 
The Bulldogs will try to bounce back from a dismal showing against Auburn last week in which they trailed 38-0 early in the second half before scoring three times in a 38-21 loss. 
Georgia had hoped a victory over the Tigers would result in a New Year's Day bowl bid. Instead, the Bulldogs may be content with any bowl, having lost two in a row and facing their last two games on the road. 
After playing Mississippi, the Bulldogs will have to deal with in-state rival Georgia Tech. 
Georgia's defense, which has struggled all season, 1,vill have do to a better job this week. Ranked Jast in the 12-team confer­ence, the unit allowed Auburn quarter­back Ben Leard to pass for a school­record 416 yards and a record-tying four touchdown passes a week ago. 

jf\;( ·. .. Jl1irfla. ~~. Stanforp 49, 9N>OOR '11( ...· Jllg23 ··.·•·.•· ls1t,0regonState18,
!' .. Wa$hingtop 5, Aubum 4, Hawaii 4, Western Michigan 4, ;.~:lft~~ptilcflY i)LOuiS'lllle 2,.Vimlnia;; Boise State 1 
Jea,i/J, .·•·· 1 .... ··.. Flori4a.s1ateJ58)'.\2iiE1l:-II!trQi~~J~¢~(lJ•··· a~if}floriija. ..........  rec<>rd 0-0 ·O -1 ,1  points 1,474 1,410 1,347 1,310  
'2  1,218  
•2  1,1  
~.' ,•,,.,·  :i~  

Ohio SI. at Michigan...........12 p.m.• ABC Georgia at Mississippi....... 6 p.m. ESPN2
around 
Purdue at lndiana.............12 p.m., ESPN Alabama at Auburn .......7-"30 p.m., ESPN 
Virginia Tech at Temple.. 12 p.m.. ESPN2 Miss. St. at Arkansas ....... 9 p.m.• hSPN2
the dial 
Friday, November 19, 1999 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 
the inside 
edge • 

records: 5-5 
A.P. rank: NR coaches' poll: NR 
~ 
records: 7-2 A.P. rank: 25 coaches' poll: 22 
Series Record 
~ 
Noire Dame leads 
8-2 
~ 
quarterbacks: Jarious defensive line: Grant Jackson is throwing the Irons is banged up but ball well but his running the rest of the line is skills have berm poor the EVEN healthy and must get a 
past.few weeks. 7cm better pass rush than llassefback has thrown they did against as many touchdowns as Pittsbur,qh. Chris interceptions. 
llo11an and Mike Willets lead the
running backs: Cederic 
Eagles.
Washington is one of the best tailbacks in the 
linebackers: The Irish 
conn try. The Irish are backers disappearedjust trying to stay 
.
If: 
against the Panthers.
healthy. 
Frank Chamberlin is the veteran in a youn,g
receivers: Boston 
group ofBC 'backers.
Collrge features yet another group ofbig 
secondary: The Irish are
play receivers. Bobby banged up in nickelBrown had a career and dime situationsday last weekfor the and its starters areIrish 
• battered but can still 
play. In the final home offensive llne: The game oftheir careers, Irish are beat up Deke Cooper, De1Jeron 
white the Eagles are Harper and A 'Jani experienced. Sanders will probably make big plays. 



. 
page 7 
special teams: The Irish have had trouble with blocked kicks and missedfield goals this year. Sanson. however. returned and kickPd well last week. 
coaching: 711ree years ago, Tom O'Brien took Overall over an Hag/es team With 21 scholarshlp alh· 

that was at rock bot• 
letes unable to play due 
tom. Now he has his 
to suspensions or
ranked team on the 
injuries, the Irish are
verge ofa bowl while 
Bob Davie. who also short-handed heading look over three years into their final home ago. is 5•5. unranked 
game of the season. The 
and might not make a 
Eagles are hungry lo
bowl. 
avenge the close loss to the Irish last year.
intangibles: It's senior day in Notre Dame Stadium. Some ofthe greatest wins (Penn Stale, 1992) and won;;t defeats (BC 1993) have happened on this day. 
IRISH INSIGHT 
Irish try to avoid embarrassing themselves 
Yns, t.hn Irish havn hit a new 
low, but it has littl{i to do with 
the 1()-poinl loss lo Pittsburgh 
last Saturday. 
Orrn loss -even to a sub·.500 lnam ­dnesn't cm1s1• that typn of 
cmbar­
rassmnnl. 
You can argue that being 5-5 isn't the cause for lite humili­
ation that 
Irish fans 
liwl right 
now. 
But 
sonwlhing is tPrribly wrong 
wlwn NotrP Dame's motivation 
in its last home gam11 of the sna· 
son. against arch·rival Boston 
Collnge, is a "l'nar orombarrass­
nwnt." 
Just two weeks ago, the Irish wern on a four-gam1) winning streak and had high hopes of' playing in a bowl gamn. 
Just thren months ago them wern prndictions of a national championship to close out the millennium. 
And jusl six years ago, we all know which tnarn 1mrned its lasHwnr No. I ranking in 1993. 
But 1m1barrassment is the prnsnnl. I guess tho motivation ol' wearing the golden helmet and playing for the most storied collnge t1\am isn't that big of a motivator anvmore. 
Note to students: Don't try this yourselves. For som11 reason, just working hard enough to avoid b1dng laughed at isn't something that Notre Dame nncourages in its students. 
We should be so lucky as to S(\11 "Thll Gr<iat Embarrassment Motivator" actually work. 
..
But ii' playing for a national <"hampionship. a top-10 spot. or a bowl game isn't going to work, what difference will this goal makn against the Eagles'! 
like lineup of quarterbacks this after the Pitt game for giving of greater importance than lind­Jim Jonns to injury will make it Whatever the experimnnt in season. allowing them to air out Panther quarterback John ing out which coach is to blame? harder for Hogers to get thingsmotivation that the Irish bring for over 220 yards a game. Turman too much time to The other problem that going on the offense. 
this Saturday, it will nol go very B.C. will surely use that to its throw. became obvious last wcr.k is The last thing the team needs far without a strong showing in advantage with quarterback Then, Bob Davie blamed Notre Dame's lack of o!Tonso. to focus on is tho fear of causingthe same areas that have Tim Hassnlbeck if Notre Dame's offensive coordinator Kevin They ran for just 72 yards Nolrn Dame embarrassment. 
plagued them all season. 
secondary allows them to. Rogers for not calling enough against Pitt. In the four games If things continue thn way that If Pitt wasn't a slap in the face Ilasselbeck has seven inler­running plays. that Jarious Jackson has rushed they've been going, that will for Nntrn Dame's secondary and 
ceptions to countfir his sflven Looks like "The Great for loss than 20 yards, the Irish take cam of itself. 
the offensive ground game, then 
touchdowns but is coming off an Embarrassment Motivator" has have averaged just over 100 
nothing short of a parietals sus­excellent showing against West already gotten to some and yards rushing. The views expressed in this 
p1111sion will wake them up. 
Virginia. passing the buck is the only way To make matters worse, the column a.re those <l the author Tlrn Irish have a!lowPd their Irish secondary coach Lou to save face. Shouldn't mncen­losses of tackles Jordan Black and not necessarily those ofThe opponents to field a lleisman-
West blamed the defensive line trating on fixing the problem be and John Teasdale and guard Observer. 


page 8 .The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, November 5, 1999 

-
Beginning in September, UNO.com will offer a subscription s.ervice called the Irish Insider. 
The Insider will feature: 
• 
Bi-Weekly Bob Davie C·olumn 

• 
Game Analysi'S 

• 
Player Diari·es 

• 
Previews 

• 
Video Playbook from the Coach's Edge 

• 
Exclusive l·rish Features 



Also included in the Insider Package: 
• 
Weekl:y Ticket Giveaways for Football and Men's Basketball Games 

• 
Big East Tournament Ticket Giveaways 

• 
Bowl Game Ticket Giveaways 

• 
Discounts and Coupons for the Notre Dame Online Store 


Become an Irish Insider!! 
Sign up to become an Irish Insider and receive a Notre Dame t-shirt! The first 500 subscribers will receive a Notre Dame football yearbook! 
., 

Irish Insider at U~JD.com is not affiliated with The ObserVf1r. 







