
¦ Two past students sued their South Bend ¦ The Observer takes a stance on Big Ten membcr­
Thursday
landlord, Mark Kramer -and won. ~hip and the addition of sexual orien_tation to the 11011-di~tri111i11arion clause 111 two ed1tonals. 
FEBRUARY 4, News• 3 Viewpoint• 11 
1999 
THE 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 82 
¦ STUDENT SENATE 
Senators discuss possible violations 

By ERICA THESING 
Assistant Ncws Fdi tor 

A debatn about PIPrlion bvlaws and conslitutional pror.ndures lrnadli1wd Wmlrrnsday's Studont Smrnte menting as candidates for the student body prnsidm1­tial and vkn-prnsidnntial election brought th11ir concerns to thn noor. 
Tlw candidains pnisentnd two main issues: the Piigibility of tlw Micah Murphy/Michael Palumbo ticknt and tlw approval of posters for Sean lksclw1w and l\likn Hnvnrs. 
Murphy's original running mate, Julie lloising. withdrc1w from thn racn Sunday f'or pnrsonal reasons. On Monday, Murphy selected Palumbo as his rww vic11-presidcntial candidate. Whiln it is not rnquircd by the constilution. tlrn pair completed a petition with tho 150 signa­tun1s in support of their ticket. 
Wally Poirinr, a prnsidential candidate 
see SENATE / page 6 
WWW. ND.EDU/-OBSERVER 
, ' ''":"L, 
~: 
? 
t/" 


Tickets: Janet Horvath & Gina Gucrreso Nancy Midden & Angie Little 
Where: Nohle Family Dining Hall 
When: 
7:30 -9:30 a.m. 11 a.m. -I p.m. 4:30 -6:30 p.m. 

DECISIONS IN LONDON 

liditorj Nore: 011 Friday, Feb. 5, the Roflrd ofTrusw·s will meet in London to disrnss, flmo11g other ismes, Notre Dt1111e sposition 011 joining the Big Tm find the possibility offlddi11g the protection ofsexu­ttl orienttttion to the University snon-discrimination clfluse. Throughout the dflys leflding to thflt meet­ing, Th,· Observer 11,i/l tflke fl comprehensive look flt the history and people behind these two issues ,is 111ell ,zs possible mmificatiom of decisions that the board might deliver. 
From independence to the Big Ten: 
Piil 11111 

Wlwn John Cahir thinks of what joining tlw Big TPn's academic organization has clorin for l'Pnn Statn Univnrsity. Im has an 111wquivocal answPr. 
"Our joining th11 Big Ten's CIC ICorn 111 iltPP on Institutional Cooperation I has linm1 a big plus for us and continues to hP so," said Cahir. vice provost and clean of urul<•rgraduate Prlur.ation al P<1nn SLatt\. "\Vp'yp bPen dPlightt>d with it. The associa­tion with the CIC and the collaboration havn lwPn fantastic. Wo likn to think that wl' brought good things to the other insti­tutions in tlw CIC too wlwn wn joinnd." 
For Cahir and his univr.rsity, tlrn acade­mic bmwfits have been nunrnrous. The 11 Big Ten institutions, the University of Chicago and tlrn Univnrsity of Illinois at Chic.ago provide opportunities for access to 
see ACADEMIC/ page 6 
Penn State football lost its independence to the Big Ten in 1990 
By ANTHONY BIANCO 
Assistant Sporrs Editor 

And tlrnn them was one. 
Once upon a time, the most dominant association of football teams did not lrnlong to tlw Atlantic Coast Cont'Prnnce, the l'ac-10, the Big 12. or I\Ven the Big Ton. Thero was a timn when tlrn powflr­housns wern groupod togetlwr simply by the fact that tlrny wc•re "indnpendents." 
But in a rnattfir of years, Penn Statn's nntrance to tlrn Big Ten confort~nce sparked an nxoclus or top tnams from the independnnt ranks to one of thn many established athletic organizations. Florida State and Miami's nntrancn to the ACC and Big East, rnspectively, in the narly 1990s left Notre Dame as thn only big namn in its makeshift "confer­ence." And it all occurrml at a time in which tho independents were the 
see ATHLETIC/ page 4 
The Observer• INSIDE Thursday, February 4, 1999
pagr 2 
utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Rejected applicants claim discrimination 
SAN FRA:\JCISCO 
added that the lawsuit is an opportuni­
A coalition of civil rights organiza• ty to make major changes in the treat­lions a11d minority students slapped UC ment or future applicant pools. Berkelev with a federal class action "I want to change the policy at UC lawsuit. \twsrlay ovnr its admissions Berkeley and allow fairness for all," process, which Uwy call "discriminato­said Gregory McConnell Jr., one of the rv." rejected UC Berkeley students who is · Sayi11g tlrn univ('rsity's admissions namod as a plaintiff. process am! its clel'initiou of "merit" Each of' the students suing the uni­illegal. lawyers representing eight versity had stellar academic and 
National Association for the
"highly-qualil'icd, minority" sludcnts extracurricular backgrounds, but UC 
Advancement or Colon1d l'eopl(), the
brought to the U.S. District Courthouse Berkeley's admissions policy, which 
American Civil Liberties Union and
the suit, which alleges that UC places emphasis on Scholastic 
MAlDEF. Named as dofrmrtants in the
Berkeley's fall admissions policies a1·c Assessment Test scores and weighted 
case arc UC Bnrkolcy Chancellor
in violation of federal civil rights laws. graded point averages, was the cause 
Holwrt Berdahl, the UC Board or
"Then• aw no ifs. ands or buts about of last Pall's drastic drop in minority
l{pg1111ts and UC Pn•sit!Pnt Hichard
it," said alturncy Joseph Jaramillo of student admissions, the plaintiffs'
Atkinson.

the Mnxican American Lfigal Defense lawyers said at the press conference. 
Sµ(1aki11g at an cmrly morning prnss
and Edlll:ulional rund. "UC lforknlny's McConnell, who now attends 
ccn1rt'rnnce at tho San Francisco
admission process violates civil rights. Virginia's Hampton University on a full 
F1:d1~ral Buildi11g, the studt:nt plaintil'ls
It is J'uir in its face. but it operates in a scholarship, said he is challenging the 
said llrny did not rcn1ivc a fair chance
discriminatory manner." admissions process and definition or 
to btwomc UC lkrkt>l11y studPnts under
Thu lawsuit was iilud by high-profile, "merit'' that denied him admission to 
the campus' admissions policies, and
civil rights groups including the Berkeley last fall. 
¦ tOU!SiANA STATE UN!VCRSlTY ¦ NonrnWESTERN UN!VfRSffY Instructor files sexual harassment suit Student fights for expression rights 
BATON HOUGE, L,1. EVANSTON, Ill. 
An inslnictor who rncently resigned from tho College ol' Hyan Du Val has joined the ranks of Gwyneth Paltrow Businnss 1il(1d suit Monday against the University. alleging and .Jim Carrey -at least according to People Magazine. sexual harassment by a college dean. Joy Irwin filed llw l'<\ople's Feb. 8 issue includes a 300-word profile of the suit with tlw 19th .Judicial Oistrict Court, naming Thomas Wt\inlrnrg/Music sophomore, who replicated Clark, d('.an of th<1 E.J. Ourso Col leg<\ or Business Miclwlangelo's Sistine Chapel mural on his dorm room Administration as the harasser. according lo her attorney, ct'ili11g. "l never would have expected it," Du Val said. "It Jill Craft. Craft is also representing Diane Pip<\r, an assis­goes to show how much support there is for student tant profossor in the C:ollBge of' Mass Communication who oxpression." And some Associated Student Government fil-ed a sexual harassment lawsuit against the University members agree, although Northwestern administrators on Jan.15. lrwin rnsigned from her position as instructor didn't appear to show their support when they planned to in the college on or about Dec. 18, 1998, acrnrding to the paint over Du Val's ceiling during Winter Break. The sen­lawsuit. "This was a very agonizing decision for her and at<i will vote tonight on a proposal that asks the adminis­her family to make." Craft said. "It wasn't something she tration to allow student input in revising the room paint­took lightly." Clark is not named in tlrn suit as a dd(111-ing policy. Tim proposal suggests that students be permit­dant. Louisiana law places LSU in a position of responsi­ted to paint their rooms as long as they repaint them at bility for all its employees' aclions, Craft said. tlw t)nd or tlrn school yc1ar. 
¦ BROWN UNIVERSITY ¦ MiCH!GAN STATE UNIVERSITY Police seize drinks for investigation Research shows cherries relieve pain 
PHOVIDENCE, IU. EAST LANSING, Mich. 
As part of a pending sexual assault investigation, The next time you feel pain, a bowl of sour cherries 
Brown l'olice and Security collected drink samples from can rPlieve your distress, according to a study conducted 
Phi Kappa Psi's (Phi Psi) "Deep Freuze" party last Friday by MSU researchers. Consuming the small, red fruit 
night. according to Colonel Paul Vorrncchia, chid of could relieve pain better than aspirin or ibuprofen, 
Brown l'olice and Security. Police and SPcurity will test according to an MSU study published in the February 
the samples for so-called "date rape drugs"-such as isstw or the .Journal of Natural Products. Researchers 
Rohypnol ( known as "roofies"I -if it is conlirmed that a also round cherries comparable to vitamin C and vitamin 
sexual assault actually occurred. Verrecchia said that E in antioxidant protection. Muralee Nair, an MSU natur· 
Police and Security is currently looking into an alleged al-products chemistry professor who headed the 
sexual assault that occurred last Friday night in the Alpha roscarch, said the idea for the study came from "a lot of 
Chi Om«'ga house. which neighbors Phi l'si. /\ member or a1rncdotal stories" people tcdl about the healing power of 
Alpha Chi Omega -who requested that Thu llorald with­clwrrills. "A lot of people eat cherries and cherry juice, 
old her nanrn -said that she had lel't her door unlocked and tlrny claim they have less pain-related arthritis, 
when slw left her room rriday night. Wh<111 she returned, lrnarl attacks and gout," he said. "There is no scientific 
she found a woman lying on the lloor passed out, with lrnr validation for this stuff so we decided to look into the 

shirt pu11t,d up and her pants pulled down. 
¦ SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
Acn1Wca1hcr 'forecast for day1i111c c{mdi1imu, and high tcmp..:rallln:s 
······-H  L  
Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday  ~ 35 21 q 42 34 ¢d 42 29,,,,, ~42 31 ~44 31  

claims." 

¦ NAT!OfU\L WEATHER 
National weather 

The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Thursday, Feb. 4. 
Pressure' 

® © .. c::J.. w 
High Low Showers Rain Tstorms Flurries Snow lco 


Atlanta 45 59 Cleveland 39 50 Madison 17 44 Baltimore 38 53 Dallas 34 69 Minneapolis 9 38 Boise 34 40 Denver 22 53 New York 41 52 Boston 36 51 Hartford 33 49 San Diego 49 70 Chicago 29 35 Indianapolis 31 52 Santa Fe 19 53 
rQ5Q~,~988i) ~ u 
Showers T-s,orms Ra,n Flumes Snow Ice Sunny. Pr. Cloudy Cloudy Via Assoclawd Press GraµNcsNer 


Thursday, Fehnwry 4. 1999 The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
ND students win lawsuit against landlord Kramer 

Limited Time 
On balance transfers

6.9%APR 
Transfer those high-balance credit cards to your Notre Dame Federal Credit Union VISA or MasterCard and save. 
www.ndfcu.org 
(219) 239-661 I or (KOO) 522-6611

r§:a ~g!~;1~~~~~ 
., rh1, spcnal nu~ applies for thi: lir:-il 6 mo111lu-. (}l) bal~lnl:I.! lran:-.frr~ ~1nlya Rak wili t~l~ll n:vJ.:rt hui:k lo 1--L'J2<!'~. It <locs not indmk: existing balam:cs on any Nc)trc Dame Federal 
lntlcpt:_•11Jt•-r11 ,,fth..-University

CrcJu Union M~1sh.:rCarJ llr VISA. Prumotion vnlid Ja1Hmry 8. through Vl'arch -~ I. J(}tJl} 
By MAGGY TINUCCI 
N,·w, Wnr,·r 
Nou·p Damn alumni w1•ni rp,·p11tly a'l-vnrclPd darrntgcs in a lawsuit hrougllt to Indiana s111all clni111s 1·ourl against Mark Kra11wr l'nr failurP to rPl11rn 1lwir SP1·11rity dq)()sits tor Ilw I1J(J7-1 'J')X sd10ol v,•ar. 
KrarnPr owns :m Sn111h ·lfPTHI housPs. which lw n•nts lo off. 1·11111p11s stucknts. 
!'PIP Kali11 and Fri(' ,\11d1•rsoH. lwlh l'i,lSS ol' I <)!)8. won tlwir suit hasPd 011 11.11 !ndi;izrn statute slitting that if tlw la11dl11rtl cluPs 1101 n•turn lhP full s1•1·urity d1•posil within .i:. davs 111' lhl' l'llllrlllsioll or tlw 1,,,;sP. lw llw11 owl's t.lH· 1'1111 dPposit and ;my atl(lf'llf'Y 1'1•ns ill't'dPd to ri•gai11 il. 
Killin allfl .\ndPrson lilPd llw lawsuit whP11 they r1•cniv<1r! t.lwir sp1•11rity dqiusit.s in .lu,w 11) 1)8. Kalin's nif11nd was $1:i.74 l'or an original sPcurity dPt)l)Sit of $,mo. 
"I was lfw fast OIH' lo lllOVP out, making s11rP it was as f'lt•an as it was whPn WP 1110vf'd i11," said Kalin. "I did 11ot nxpnl't lo g1\t tlw 1•11lirn d" po s il rt' t. 11 r rw d h1• r au s P Uwn• was hask wear and LP,tr and 1 still ow,·d th<1 last month ·s utililif's. WP w<'rn l'lrnrg1•d lat1• rrn•s that WPni not in thl' !PasP anyw!wre. That was I.hf' hasis of' our con­tP11lio11." 
Th"Y originally lilnd thn law­suit on lhP basis ol' tlrn UrnSf\ latl' f'l'PS, and incic!Pntally 1"01111d tlw stalutl', whicli str,•ngtlw,wd tlw rasn. 
"Tlw lall' f'p1•s w1•rP wlwn) w1• !'Pit thP wrong was," i\ncl1•rson said. "TIH'V had no rlw• as to t.lw slalut/ Without that it w11uld havP !wPn our word a1-:ai11st his. Basically, 1lt,•y w.-n•n'l pn•1mrPd." 
Kranwr·s of'fire admits it was 1w1 awan• nl' this statutl' prior lo thl' lawsuit. 
"UltiniatPly. tlrn only mason Llwy w1•.r1\ suco\ssf'ul in win­ning was hPrause ol' 1111, statute. The judgP nvcn ~ai<l that if w11 hacl not violatncl Uw 4!i days, WP would lrnv<' won tlw arg11111m1t." said Krnnwr. 
ll1•spitc a snUl«>nwnt ot'f'Pr !'rom Kn111H•r, Kalin and A11cl1•rso11 WPnl 111 lrial in an att1•111pt to r!•pn•s1:11f t.hidr· otlwr roommal('S and to rPcov­tir fogal fens, in addition lo thn s<•rnrity dl'posi1s. 
"WP wPnt to court on princi­plP. By that point tlrn monPy dirln't rrally nwan anything," said t\nrl!•rson. 
"Basi<'ally thP judg,· lold lht•m I Kali II and i\11d1irson I tlwir claim was not appropri­a1P to bring to lri,1I." said .Jim Masters. attorrrny for Kramer. "They had no right to rq1rc­s<' n t o th~; rs. T Im y a rn n n t at.l.onwys. 
According t.o Masl!1rs. tlwn~ havn lrncn a f'cw other claims brnught against Kramnr for similar siluations. which wnrl' all resolved out nf court. 
"Wn were not trying to with­hold what is ow<'cl. ThPrn was a mistak<'. We w11rn willing to rpsolve it. Thov wantml somc­Lh ing more tlrnn thny were m1titl1~d lo and they didn't gel it," he said. 
Kramer cites his actual loss as $8;i0, laking into consiclr.ra­tion damages done to the hm1s1• and clPaning foc1s. "We lrnvn thr. right to rocovPr those damagc)s but. ltlrns far! have nlnctPcl not to. Wn let that stuff go trying to bn dr.cont," Kranwr said. 
Maslnrs agreed tlrny did not gain anything hy going to court. "I don't think tlrny provPd anything." 
Kalin and And1•rson viow the s<'ltlP111enl as a victory against Kramer. 
"Wfi surprised them. Tlrny worr.n't rnady for us," said Kalin. "Tlrny worn not aware 

The Observer/Kevin Dalum Th_e house at 722 LaSalle where Pete Kalin and Eric Anderson lived from 1997 to 1998. The students won a suit against the owner of the house, Mark Kramer, from whom they rented. 
of' lhr. laws and wPre counting he said. morn of a busirniss approach." on lho studonts not k11owing Arter rnceiving no response Kramer's office munagPr, the laws cithPr." to a letter and phone call, rnsponsibln for rnturning the 
Dan Maloney, currently a Kalin met with Kramer in dnposits, had a family crisis at law student at Valparaiso August of 1998 to cl iscuss the the time of the dnaclline, mak­Univflrsity. uncovered this security deposit. "lie produced ing it impossibln for tlrnir tinw­statute in tho Indiana Code a photocopy of a lcttnr he sup­ly return. during a legal writing class. posedly had delivered lo our "We were not trying to keep He and six others were the door explaining what the late their deposit. I want that roommates Kalin and fees were," said Kalin. known," Kramer said. In addi­Anderson attempted to repre­"Regarcllcss of the fact we tion to the latn charges, they senl. They are currently pur­didn't receive the lr.tler. it's were also responsibl11 for suing their own suits against not lr.ga_lly binding because no replacement of' torn carpet, a Kramer. mm signfld it." screen door, and clnaning 
Initially, Kalin and Anderson "I Kramer! figured no one is chargns. looknd into the lawsuit going to do anything about it." Kramer has changed sornn of because of a $5 charge Maloney said, inspiring the its practicns as a result 111' this deducted from their security house to pursue actions lawsuit, making thesn issuns for each day thoir individual against him. unlikely to resurfac,~. lie check was late. after a five­Kramer contends he sent amended tlrn 1998-1999 lease working-day grace period. two notices Lo each individual to include the late charg<1s and 
Kramer said he sent a letter student, rathr.r than to each a change in utility paynwnt. lo each individual describing house. "!lad we known that "We·ve taken st11ps to makn the late fees. "I also verballv our notification Imethod I sure tlwse things don't happen told them of the late charges,;. wasn't the way to do it, wn in the future. Unfortunately, 
would have gone another way. thesn steps am not f'avorabln 
It's a valuable losson for us." to Urn studonts," Mastnrs said. 
Kramer cites extenuating "Wn am now collecting latn circumstances for the livn days foes as w,i go," Kranwr said. thry worn latr in returning the Consnquently, thP ratP of late deposits. "Wn nndc1d up getting fnos !wing c·.hargnd has stuck and will havP to tak<' dropped significantly. "It's 
::;;u
·,,. 

BOOK SE.ARCH 
• Used, rare and out-of-print books 
, • Initial cost of $2.00 " Nationafiy • circulated ad ~ 
• Success rate of 50% 
~ 

• Time Required: 2 months :,ii 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 4661 7 (219) 232-8444 
working lwtt.er l'or t.hc stuclPnts lwcausn they'rn all awarn of il." . 
Kranrnr has al so slopped including utility f"p11s in I.hf' rPnt. "Slttdl'nts now l111v1, utili­t.ins in Llwir own 11a111P," lw said. "LikP tlw old adagP says. somn pPopln ruin ii for ol.lH•rs. W ,~ saVPd tlw st11 cl nn t aboII t. $400 by k<'Pping 11tilitiPs i11 our nanw. You try to lw as a<·rorn­111 nd at ing as possibln as a landlord. but you can't lPt pPo­pln slide lrncausn you gl't 
st.twk." 

"WP opPralP off trust. as t.hP studl•nts do. WP willingly gavP !'HP and Eric t.hl'ir mo111•y. 1.aws an• laws and WP abiclP by tlwm," Kramnr said. 
Patti: 

Now that you are 21,we can only give you advice... 
,. 

Watch out for bird poop!!! Happy Birthday to our no.1 Star! We miss you! Love Steph and Margie 
page 4 The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February 4, 1999 
Athletic 
continued from page 1 
strength of college football. 

Flexibility was the key throughout the 1980s. Three independent teams -Penn State, Miami. and Notre Dame -won six of the decades' championships. Miami used the freedom associated with not. having to play in conference­determined bowl games to take on No. 1 Oklahoma in the 1988 Orange Row! and become national champions. 
Penn State was No. 2 in both 1983 and 1987, played the No. 1 teams in the bowl games, and also won titles. This "confer­ence" was so strong that Big Ten commissioner Jim Delany referred to the '80s as the "decade of the independent." 

8 ut before the decade was even finished, Penn State had plans for the future that did not include staying with the inde­pendent powerhouses. some­thing it had been committed to since the Nittany Lions began playing football in 1887. 
It started with football coach Joe Paterno's plan in the early 1980s to form an eastern all­sports league that 'his football team could compete in. It failed and attention soon refocused un winning national champi­onships. 
The two titles did not keep Paterno and Penn State from looking for a conference to join. As the "decade of the indepen­dent" was coming to a close, the University realized that its time as an unaffiliated football team was also waning. 
"We sat down to evaluate where we were," said Budd Thalman, associate athletic director for communications at Penn State. "The consensus of the administration was to find a conference. It was becoming increasingly difficult to sched­ule games, and the independent was disappearing." 
These concerns led to talks with the Big Ten conference. In December or 1989 the presi­dents of schools met and voted to offer an invitation to Penn State, which readily accepted in June 1990. Claiming that the university was a good fit for the conference, it seemed that both parties stood to benefit. 

The decision could not haVfl come at a better time for the Big Ten. National champi­onships had eluded the confer­ence since an Ohio State team went undefeated in 1968 to grab the title, 
When Penn State was worked into the conference football schedule for I.he 1993 season, Big Ten football was in need of a shakeup -only three of the 10 teams had winning records in 1992 and Michigan had won all or part of the Big Ten title for the previous five seasons. 
"There's no question that Penn State made our confer­ence better overall," said Mark Hudner. an assistant commis­sioner of the Big Ten. "The have made the conference more competitive. The general con­sensus is once they joined, the Big Ten became that much more prominent." 
A link with one of the most prestigious collegiate confer­ences answered Penn State's concerns, but they benefited in many other ways. Joining gave Penn State a seat on one of the nation's most prestigious acad­cm i c consortiums, the Committee on Institutional Cooperation. 
Financially. Penn State gener­ated revenue only from its foot­ball program, whir.h in turn funded Lhe school's 27 other intercollegiate athletic teams. As a member of the Big Ten. Penn State receives a share of the conference's basketball rev­enue, which is close to $1 mil­lion a year. 
On the flip side, the associa­tion means that Penn State is no longer able to pocket all of the revenue from its bowl games. Instead, it keeps a majority of the bowl payoff and must split the rest among the remainder of the Big Ten teams. 
The bowl game schedule was one of the biggest question marks for Penn State in decid­ing to enter the conference. With the Big Ten locked into a contract with the Pa-c-10 to meet its champion in the Hose Bowl, the only way a Big Ten team had the ability to finish the season as national champi­ons was if the Rose Bowl fea­tured No. 1 versus No. 2. 
At the outset of the 1993 sea­son, Ohio State coach John Cooper knew how difficult it 

was for a Big tf'n team to win a national title. 
"If anybody can go through [a difficult] non-conference sched­ule and the Big T(m conference undefeated and win the Hose Bowl, I think you could sec the national champs come out of the Big Ten this year. You notice I said if they can do that. It's very difficult to do." 
Penn State has made the Rose Bowl only once in its five years with the Big Ten. In 1995, they went undefeated, won the bowl and yet could not capturn the national crown. It was not till 1997 that the conference would break its title drought, as Michigan went into the Bost>. Bowl undefeated and were for­tunate to play a Washington Sfate team that was ranked seventh. 
The bnwl season was not the only schedule change the Lions would face as members or the Big Ten. Joining mtrnnt Paterno's teams were sched­uled to play eight of the 11 reg­ular season games against r:on­ference teams. 
With only three games sched­uled against non-conference teams, Penn State was l'orced to end a number of strong rival­ries that had developed, includ­ing series with Boston College, Miami, Syracuse, Pittsburgh and Notre Dame. BuL according to Thalman, the switch has given Penn State a new set of rivalries each season. 
"There's some sacrifice in everything. We gave up a lot of regional opponents and we took on a Big Ten schedule. The con­cern was the new rivalries wouldn't be as strong, but Michigan and Ohio State have proven to be great competi­tors." 
Hivals or not, with the more Midwestern teams of the Big Ten -Penn State is the east­ernmost school in the confer­ence, more than 250 miles away from Ohio State. the near­est -the Lions continue to draw a following from the East. Originally a inember of the Atlantic lO in sports other than football, Penn State continues 
t.o remain rooted in the East, from recruiting to television coverage. 
Much like with the current debate over Notre Dame's possi­ble entrance to the Big Ten. Penn State was concerned that recruiting would suffer, as Paterno would now have to com­pete with the rest of the Big Ten in th,~ Midwest. 
"I think Penn State will have to work harder to get those kids from the East," said Penn State safety Lee Rubin in 199;;, 'Tm a Jersey boy. and the reason I came to Penn State was that it was an independent. When you're from the East, you never think about playing Wisconsin nr Iowa or Northwestern.» 

Thalman believes that recruit­ing has not changed much since his school's entrance to the Big Ten. "Traditionally, we've recruited heavily in Pennsylvania and contingent states. If any­thing, br.ing in the Big Ten has taken us into Michigan and the Midwest." 
As far as television markets, Hudner and the Big Ten believe that their conference has always held a large national audience, but Penn StatP brought in another element.. 
"It. opened up the East," Rudner explained. "We've always had national success. but from a local standpoint, [Penn Stat!l] added a significant number for us." 
The factors affecting the deci­sion Penn State made almost a decade ago have all come together for what Thalman calls "the most enlightened decision ever made for Penn State," Though the factors remain the same 1 0 years later for the Irish, it is clear that Notre Uarnn and Pe1111 State will have difl'ernnt responses. 
"Penn State was a totally dif­ferent situation," said Delany. "It "".as diEf'erent people, differ­ent times. 

1999-2000 PresidentNice-President 
PRIJ44R~ ILICTIOMI 
Monday, February 8, 1999 
Off-Campus Voting 'limes: 11:00am -5:30pm 
In Cl Parking lot (weather permitting) 
. DON'T FOR,GIT TO YOTI!!! . 
1999-2000 Presidential/Vice-Presidential Candidate 

Sunday, 7:00 pm February 7, 1999 Lafortune Ballroom 
Free Pizza and Soda provided for all who attend!! Come and find out what your 1999-2000 
Candidates truly stand for. 


Thursday, fdm1ary 4, 1999 COMPILED NWM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
¦ WORLD NEWS BRIEfS 
School busts beer bash 
DALLt\S 
l'lw WP11-agP ol'ganizPrs sliowtHl oulsland­
i11g orga11izalio11al skills, n1nting a wan!• 
housl', chartering hustis and 1wrsuading 
111iarly :mo ol' llwir 1wnrs lO buy tickt!ts at up 
to ~:i:l apiPCt' But to llH\ school district gavP 
tlw wholt• thing an F, b1:1·,ausl' what the kids 
put logt>llwr was an tdaliorat1: hnt\r bash, 
1'11li1·1i, arling 011 a tip, dnscondnd on tlw 
party ahout midnight Saturday and tickntml 
mort• tlrnn I!iO tt•nn-ag1•rs from thti l'nrk 
Cilii!S. two wt•althy t!nrlavcs north o(' down­
lilwn Dallas. On T111•sduv, nhoul ZOO sll11funts 
wnrt! sus1wnclPd from P'.xtrarurrintlar school 
al'livilil's, including sports. "t\s a sociPly w1i 
oftf'll look tht! other wav ratlwr than fa(',11 
tough isstws lrnad-1111," said llighland l'ark 
s1'11011I S1qwrinlt•1Hlnnl .John Con11olly in 
annou1H·ing tlw disciplinary ucli1111 "This 
sl'hool district will nut lo11k tlw oUwr way,'' 
Tlw PlltrPprnllP\lrial orga11iznrs rnnWd tho 
warPl101ISI' f'or $1,000 and chart<'rod city 
bust's lo transport partygoPrs. aulhorili11s 
said, 
Romanian judge jails woman 
for stealing 20 cents 
BUCIIAHEST. Bomania 
t\ llomanian woman has btwn sentt>nced to 
2 1/2 ynars in prison l'or stPaling tlw Pquiva­
lt\11 L of 20 c,rnts. a punishnrnnt llw judgn 
dPsi:rilw£! as lm1iPnl on Wnclnesday. Adela 
llirivan t1~stiliPd slrn look thP rno1wy from a 
11111n's pockt!l in Bucharnst last year to pay 
lwr bus farn hom11. The woman is from a 
haml('t outsid(' l'itosti in southern Homania. 
Tlw se11t1•ncc is part of a crackdown on theft 
that lwgan in l lJ'J6 when parliament 
approvPd longer snnttmcns for the crime. As 
a rnsult -and Lo Lim outrage of' many 
ll11manians -oven pntty thnft, prnviously 
punishable by a prison tc1rm mcasurnd in 
months. now can land tlw ptirpetrator in jail 
for ynars. Dirivan facnd ii maximum of 15 
y1mrs in prison. But the judge said she tonk 
into account that the woman had no criminal 
rncord and four r.hilclrnn, the youngest of' 
whom is 7 months old. 
Pirate violence increases 
Kllt\l.A 1.UMPUH, Malaysia 
PiratPs killnd morl' pPoplP on the world's high spas in I <J<J8 than llrn year bPforn, but lhP numlwr of' attacks has clroppnd, the lnlPrnational Maritim1\ Bureau said Wmlrwsday. Tim mod,~rn swashbucklers kilh•d (,7 lTPwmen last ynar, c11111pared to 51 in I1)97. according to tlrn bureau's annual n•port. SrorPs ol' ollwr pt\ople were assault­Pd and injurt•d,Tlwre wnrn 198 pirate allaf'ks last y,iar. ror11pttr1\d wilh an all-time high ol' 24 7 in I 9')7, according to the l.ondon-hast'd bun•au. Tlw drop was dun to nwasurPs taktm by ship owrwrs and cap­tains to knep tlwir ships saf'er. the rPport said, 
Market Watch: 2 3 
Dow 
AMEX: 
7U.27

JONES 
d.(,4 lJp: Nas<la,1; 

16459366.81 .249.i.41 
• 29, ')') 

11 
NYSE: Down:
598.58 
1391
t4.48 S&f> 500: I 27Z.07 
Cumpo;itc 
, 10.08 

Volume:+92.69 1,054,991,060 
VOLUME LEADERS 

( nMl'ANr flfltB 1 hA.IN 
\ ("oin ( ·nq, f:{t\.l!'i ., !i.2tJ •h.7•1.~H ,l7 Jff J~th,h•rtl !fl,1~, 111011 • I :\2.b.{ <>7 .2~0U 12,110 nu·o:,,y\l!'UI\ CSU) ,I.Ii -1.Z?Olfl l I l.12 tMl(11mp11tn l>l'IL . r,IJ •,7-1.~0 !07 KH h•lr.1·ll1t "IKH' •l.iA~ •ol.h';(}O 15.ll ,\tu,,ru,nll t il!P, M.\11 ,-flJ Ki~O IMd\l \y\h•lll\Cl)I ('11rp w-., .-112.nn .-1.mun l,W I "Tr,Hh: t 110111• hil-l./1 •5.1:i 55.25
•.tJJUllO 

fi,nt\ t uq, fONX -f.1-tl .OO +l.411l0 2,41 ,1c I \Vnrltll,)lll In \V('[)~t I.II H77, 7H H<, 

AssOCIATEIJ PnESS 
W/\SIIINGTON 

Senate Democrats threatened on Wednesday to turn President Clinton's impeachment trial into a party battle if' the Hepublicans go through with plans to vote on a declaration of wrongdoing before deciding his fate. 
t\s House GOP prosecutors ques­tioned the third of three witnesses in the case, Democratic leader Tom Daschle said his party's rank-and-file lawmakers were solidly opposed to any live trial testimony on the Senate l1oor. Ile also raisnd objections to the imnrndiate public release of Monica Lewinsky's videotaped deposition. 
But what sparked the Democrats' sharpest criticism was a GOP proposal for a formal finding of' wrongdoing, a measure that would require a simple majority for passage rather than the two-thirds needed for conviction on impeachment. 
"If Hepublicans persist in dnmand­ing live witnesses and demanding morn depositions. and demanding extra legal diwiccs like findings or fact, the more it becomes a Republican trial," Daschle told reporters. 
The White !louse also renewed its objections to the proposal, at the same time spokesman Joe Lockhart pledged a restrained response if -as expected -Clinton is acquitted on the two articles orimpeachment. 
"I now declare in a post-impeach­ment era, this is a gloat-free zone," he said. 
Republican senators met privately late in the day, and released a letter sent to the White House in which they asked Clinton to submit voluntarily to a sworn deposition to answer ques­tions in the case. 
"Your knowledge, intent, actions and omissions are central to the charges. Personal answers from you should prove beneficial in our efforts to reconcile conflicting testimony," the Hepublicans wrote in a request the White House rejected before the letter was even dispalchnd. 
John Czwartacki, a spokesman !'or Majority Leader Trent Loll, told reporters he expected a vote when the trial resumes on Thursday on a proposal to release tlrn depositions of Lewinsky and two other witnP-sses, both in written transcripts and video­tapes. Ile suggested they could remain under seal for a limited period of time. 
For his part. the chief Ilouse prose­cutor, Rep. Henry Ilyde, said he wants approval for live testimony by Lewinsky, presidential friend Vernon Jordan and While llousc aide Sidney Blumenthal. the three witnesses who testified in private depositions this week. 
/\ scaled-back request is also possi­ble, requesting live testimony by onn or two witnesses or the showing of portions of the videotapes. 
GOP Senate officials conceded it would be difficult to secure enough votP.s to prevail on a call for liv1! testi­mony, particularly with public opinion in favor of a swift end to the proceed­ings. 
The Democratic maneuvering came as Blumenthal was questioned in a heavily secured room in the uppnr rnachcs of thn Capito!. 
¦ YUGOSLAVIA 

Albanians demand independence vote 
A!)SOCIATEI) PRESS dominant republic -will talking by Saturday and would attend tlm talks. 
alsn join the nogotiations. strike a deal bv Feb. 19 to European Union envoy 
Dll/\.COBILJE Yugoslav President end 11 months ·or lighting_ Wolfgang Petritsch said 
Separntisls in Kosovo Slobodan Mi1osovic's The allies il.ro pushing a after 11111otinK SHrh officials demanded a guarantee Socialist party hinted at peace deal providing for a in Belgrade that the gov­Wednesday that a vote on attendance. saying that three-year period of auton, crnmen t was "seriously independence for their Yugoslavia supp()rted solv· omy for Knsovo -wh<~re considering" attending. province would bo part of' ing the Kosovo issun ethnic Albanians make up U.S. envoy Christopher any poaco accord with "through political means." some 90 percent of the llill. who also met Serb offi­Serhiu -,i move that. S1:1rbia's hard-line population -possibly fol­cia.ls, was more cautious. "I dirnmod prospects for thb Parliament, undnr lowed by talks on the will docline Urn honor or WMknncl's poaco talks in Milosuvic's do facto control. provinco·s future. making a prediction. I will Francn. is due to deddti Thursdav Most of Kosovo's hope that they will partic­
Tlie rebel Kosovo whether 10 accept tho sum·­Alb;inians demand ind(l­ipato," ho said. Liboration Armv has mons to talks schcdul(ld to pcmdoncc, a goal that the Serbia's state-run televi­accepted tho U.S.·Et1ropcan start Saturday in allies have opposed for foar sion allowed hours of air summons to lhn talks. And Harnbouillet, France, out• ol' stirring up the Balkans' time Tuesday ~ivening-to a in Belgradn. Urn·govcrn• sirle Paris. volatile ethnic mix. modtlratl", Deputy Premier mcnl gave its strongest sig­NATO is threatening to Kosovo's moderate Vuk Draskovic, who sup­nals yet Wednesdav that attack if the Serbs and eth­Albanian hiad,~r, lbrnhim ports participlLtion in the Serbia -Yugosli.wiit's nic Albanians don't start Rugova, announrod that he talks. 

_______________________:_____:____ _ 
page6 The Observer • CAMPO. i NEWS Thursday, February 4, 1999 
eITorts to .incrnase diversity." for them to run." had to drop out of the race," With Big Ten universities gen­During his presentation of the Linster said. "Something that is
Acadelllic Senate 
erating over $1 billion in issue, Poirier referred to a simi­going on right here is tainting 
continued from page 1 
the other universities' libraries, summer research opportunities and a broader exchange of ideas among professors, administra­tors and students from the schools. 
"The cooperation that occurs at the academic level of the CIC. is substantial," said Cahir. "It works to the benefit of faculty and students and promotris qual­ity." 
Currently, the CIC is develop­ing programs to share courses. /\. professor at Penn State is teaching a class that students at the ~niversity of Iowa arc able to take through collaboration and technology. 
"We have a l'urmal set-up for doing things like this," said Cahir. "That's a benefit of the CIC." 
Additionally. Cahir praised interactions 'v\ith administrators from other institutions in the CIC. 
"The deans meet frequently," said Cahir. "I meet with my counterparts and we share information, notes. take posi­tions on issues and set up con­ferences." 
He said lhis dialogue also car­ries into the collaboration between professors. Professors involved in the same fields are often able to e-mail or discuss common problems or issues that they are facing, said Cahir. 
Penn State has also seen a sig­nificant increase in the enroll­ment of minority students since joining the CIC. 
"If you looked at the number of minority students we had in the 1980s, it was low," said Cahir. "Our numbers have since improved dramatically. I believe the CIC has helped with our research each year and being known for their strong graduate programs, questions arise about how an expanded graduate pro­gram at Notre Dame would affect undergraduate education. Cahir had words to quiet those concerns. 
Undergraduate education has felt the positive effects of the CIC, said Cahir. 
"The CIC has greatly helped us 
i.n moving to a much better situ­ation with undergraduates," said Cahir. "It has also helped us dur­ing this revolution of' large uni­versities bringing students to the forefront of learning and con­centrating on the success of' undergraduate students. 
"We've also realized through the CIC tho importance of help­ing professors to realize that they need to pay attention to who their students arc," added Cahir. 
Penn State has also explored options Lo get undergraduates more involved in research by looking at a program that the University of Michigan has, which integrates freshmen into research initiatives. Although Penn State hasn't been able to establish a program at the same level as Michigan's, progress is being made, said Cahir. 
For those who look at the number of undergraduate and graduate students at Penn State and Notre Dame, it would appear there were no similari­ties. 
Cahir disagreed. 
"Penn State has always emphasized undergraduate edu­cation and we have a higher ratio of undergraduate to gradu­ate students," said Cahir. "We arc more like Notre Dame in having a tremendous commit­ment to undergraduates." 

Which will it say on your office door? 
You've worked hard in college. When you start ocareer, will you be equally challenged and rewarded? Or will you be stuck with something less than your ambition deserves-something short of your career goals? 
CIGNA offers an alternative to "just another job." And it can be found here at one of the world's global benefits companies. We've built our success on hiring bright, creative individuals from all major backgrounds and helping them build careers filled with meaningful work. that brings out 
W...their best. The result is more productive lives that benefit us 
~aswell os our employees. 
People working at CIGNA are genuinely richer for the experience. And we're not just talking about salary and 
benefits. One example: our Leadership Development Program gives promising graduates the chance to explore various iob rotation alternatives before settling on afinal choice. We ore also well known in 
the business community for on environment that fosters people's aspirations on and off the job. 
There's aspot waiting for you at CIGNA. learn more by visiting our Web site or speaking with on on-campus representative. 
Welcome back to school ond have agreat semester. 
One CIGNA: Many Opportunities. 
We're on eQuol opportunity employer. M/f/0/V. "CIGNA" refer.: to CIGNA (orporntion ond/or one or more of its subsidiaries. Most employells me em~oyed by subsidiories of CIGNA Corporotion, which pro~de insurance and related products. 
www.dgaa.com 
a· 
CIGNA 
A Business ofCaring. 
continued from page 1 
from Zahm Hall, exprcs~ ed con­cern that the election bylaws were violated when ~ lurphy entered a new petition a 'ter last Thursday's deadline. 
"It has been brough to my attention ... that somett ing has happened in the electi rn that may not be appropriate. In fact, it may be improper," Poirier said. 
He read from Arti,:le 12, Section two of the bylaw: , which states that "No petition ,hall be accepted after the deadli w with­out prior written permi ;sion of the election committee." 
After the senate's ethi ~s com­mittee discussed the isst e, com­mittee chair .Jason Lins .er said that the council would a low the Murphy/Palumbo ticket. 
"This is a point where .he con­stitution is very uncle'tr," he said. "We feel that prio · to the election is the best we ca.1 take." 
Nicole Borda, vice prei ident of elections for the Judicial Council. stood behind the decision. 
"Basically, we felt the ·e were extenuating circumstan ;es. We gave written approva in the form of the letter," sl e said. "Based on what we ha· e here, we determined it would be legal lar situation in last year's elec­tion, when presidential candi­date Michele Costello was allowed to choose a new running mate shortly before the election when her original running mate dropped out of the race. 

At that time, the election com­mittee referred the case to the senate's ethics committee, who took a vote of all presidential candidates, who approved the new ticket. 
Poirier said that he and other candidates he represented felt that a precedent was set last year and that this yoar's candi­dates should have been consult.­ed in the same mamrnr. 
"It was my understanding that a precedent was set and this year, that precndent wasn't fol­lowed," he said. 
After a live-minute recess that allowed the senato ethics com­mittee to discuss the issue, the s1mate reconvened and focused on the meaning of "prior" in the bylaws. Some senators took "prior" to mean prior to the deadline for petitions, while oth­ers assumed that prior meant prior to the election. 
"[ feel that if you take it into consideration, something very serious happened to Mr. Murphy's running mate and she 
El'GGNOvllCALL.Yi:}J(;ii/NE:E~.f:D ---~ NEVER TO ?f'ILL OF.GET IAE55Y 
2 ~LICE$ OF CHEE~ --­5ECURS.LY ANCHOI'. FLAM.S-eROILED PATrlE.9 
OJ Gil<!AM<& i<ETCHUP ~ GRAM':i MU!'?TAl<D 
STAE!>lL.IZ:E HO"-l'ZONTAL !!>~EF'?HlfT<,; 

this election. I challenge the can­didates here to get back to the issues." 
The senate also decided to allow Deschene and Revers to post print media for their cam­paign after the pair failed to attain mandatory stamps from Student Affairs. 
H.evers said that both candi­dates were unable to attend the mandatory meeting for cand.i­datos last Thursday and instead sent a friend who did not give them all the information. When Bevers realized they wern miss­ing inl"ormation, ho contacted Borda, but it was already past the 4 p.rn. deadline Monday for poster approval. 
Borda said that she could not make concnssions on this rule, but that the senate could vole and allow the posters. After sev­eral minutes of intcnsP debate, the senate voted 17-4 to approve the posters. 
In other Senate news: 
• 
The Senate formally approved .lames Jesse as the 1999-2000 Student Union Treasurer. 

• 
Zahm senator Spencer Stofko announced that he is resigning, effective immediately. lie said that a special Zahm election would provide a replacement. 


'51:'5AME ~EEO~ 



THE FIRST BUI<GEI< ENGJNEERED WITH TAKE-OUT IN MIND. 
• 
~

iHE DOUe>LE CHE:ESE!?U"-<EiER. 
BURGER

ONL.Y q~4, FOf< A LIMITED 1IME:. 
KING
DRAWING NO. 
JOB NO. t::itc=. 01 
(PRICE AND PARTICIPATION MAY VARY.) 

1 
.. 
DATE t/9'=1 
The Huddle -LaFortul'll! Student Center 
When You 
SCALE 

FUL~t------------------1 "~VEIT'11UKWAv9"' 
0 !999 PURGE'R KING COl!'.PO"ATION. i,uRGER' KING CORl'OltA1'10N 16 n-lE EXCLU51VE LICEN&EE 01' THE ·1r JUST 
TASTH !5E1TE1t.· TR.M1EMAAK AND THE KEGIST'EltED •H11VE IT YOUR WI.~ AND OUN HALVEt, 11)00 TkADl!MAll.ll:, 
"11 dU5TTASTES 15ETTEe'.. 

Thursday, Fehruary 4, 1999 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
--------------------------------------------_______________::....__::..___ 
Spike Lee: Racial images in movies, TV need changing 
By CHRISTINE KRALY 
AS>istanr News Editor 
Vi\LPAIV\ISO, Ind. 

Movie mogul Spikn Loo turnnd !wads and challengtid minds at Valparuisn llniv1~rsily W nd rrnsd ay night whn n lrn spokf\ to an audinncn nl' stu­
1!1mts, faculty and local  com­ 
munity 111t•mlmrs.  
lluridrf'Cls  packnd  thn  

Valparaiso drnpel to lwur tho controvPrsinl writer, director a11d prorluct\r addrnss issues s11d1 as rat'.P, filmmaking and Nlur:ttion. 
Sten~ol.ypes 

on tlH' silv<'r scnwn 
l.tiP. who n•mincled 1wnryn1w thal hdiruary is Black llislory Month, snid it is important that sociPty rncognizt• the nnnd for rhangn in tlw way blacks am viPwnd, especially in thn film industry, 
"ITlwl fou1s is 11wss1.~d up," ht! said. adding that l'ilms do not always accurutcly portray African Anwricans. 
Wlrnn asked about tlw movie "Amislad," t'or example. Lee nolt!d a problem in tlrn movie's story li1rn stemming from its point of view. 
"What is Matthew McConaughey doing in that movie? That movie should be about !the main charactcrl and thn rnst or tht\ slaves," l.ne said. "(W1d clt!a! too much with Anthony Ilopkins and Matthew McConmrghey." 
The problem with many movil\s, said l.ee, is that the pres1•nr.e of well-known actors -such as Alec Baldwin and .lames Woods in "The Ghosts of Mississippi" -Lakes away from tlw imporl/lnce of the plot. But tlw people behind the camera also have a great effoct on the movie's image, according lo l.ce. 
"I lrnvn nevnr felt only black 
dirnclnrs could direct black subject matter," he said. "At Ow sam() time, flVen though a whil(1 ciiroctor can do it, it's very raro. 
",l\s an audience, w,~ have ln come out and support films Lhal don't huve lull thel adver­tising and support behind it," 
he conLimwd. 
Films such as "Hosewood" and "Down in thn Delta," an:or<ling to Lee, are great lilms that don'l got llw recogni­tion they <lns1\rve. 
"Timm should be room for a lot morn aspects of our c11l­lurP," he added, n0Li11g Lhal films oftnn 11,\glect to portray blacks as divcrsn pooplc. 
"People think i\frican i\mcricans arn all tho same: tlrny all look alike, all eat the samo things, like tlrn samo music," lrn said. "But we're jnst as div1~rse as cverymrn r.lse." 
"IPcoplo! shouldn't assumn thert\'s one black movie, one black filmmaker," be said. "We nMd to expand what 'black' means. We're in this business lo make money. We've got to turn it around." 
The trouble with television 
Much of i\nrnrican tnlnvision Loday has a racial image prob­lmn. according to Len, who said Im longs for at least one dra­malic show on TV with blacks as the main characters and that takes lifo seriously. 
Shows such as Eddie Murphy's "The PJs" do little to enhance the image of blacks in America. in Lee's opinion, and of late he has been vocal in his criticism of the POX show. 
"To do a show about the pro­jects !like "The P.Js"l when all your focus is negative and don't show people's dignity, some­thing's wrong," Lee said. 
Though he added that it "doesn't mean we can't laugh about ourselves," the charac-

tcrs in "The PJs" appear to have little dignity and make life in destitution appear humorous rather than grave. 
A lot of the problem lies with the networks themselves. Television networks like the WB and UPN, which Leo refers to as the "We Brothers" and "U Peoples Network," respectively, need to be aware of the dam­age they are causing to the image of African Americans. 
"Sometimes [people] don't think [they! have power," he said, but that people should write and raise their voices against demeaning program­ming and network heads will listen. 
Changing Times 
"The landscape [of filmmak­


ing] was a lot different back then than it is now," stated Lee, reminiscing on how he first started out in the entertain­ment industry. 
"Growing up in Brooklyn, I had no idea I wanted to be a filmmaker." 
Lee spent most of his time at 1\forehouse sifting through elec­tives, trying to figure out what to do with his life. It wasn't until the summer between his sophomore and junior years, however, that he realized his dream of filmmaking. 
He then applied to the three top film schools in the country: the University of Southern California, UCLA and New York University. Being rejected by USC and UCLA helped form Lee's view on admission test­ing. 
"I still feel that standardized testing cannot be the only crite­ria to judge and individual's merit or worth," he said. 
Plagued by innocent anticipa­tion, Lee's early days in film­making were stressful and UnAventf'ul. 
"I was young and dumb ­thought I was on my way," Lee said. 
lie has since learned that there is "no such thing as 
overnight success. IMy first film was made after[ 10 years of hard work and eating Spaghetti-Os." 
His advice to aspiring film­makers is "!don't expect Loi snap your fingers and every­thing will happen." 
As he reflected on the dilTer­ence in himself then and now, Lee said he lost that overambi­tious ignorance that guided his pre-famous film work. 
"l don't make movies to win awards," ho stated. "I don't think about that any more." 
When asked what he believes was his greatest obstacle in achieving fame and prestign, Lee wants lo leave race out of the discussion. 
"I refuse to believe that being African American has been my hardest struggle." 
What he does not hesitate speaking out about is the diffi­cult society in which today's youth live. · 
Drugs and crime have unfair­ly forced childr1rn to grow up early. according to Lee, whose fondest memorins include the days wlrnn he would play with friends and spend Saturday afternoons in a movie theater. 
"No one should bn robbed of' just being a child." 
Rttention Sophomores! 
PAID SUMMER INTERNSHIPS avail­able in the field of employee
Now is the 

benefits. Successful candidates work in full-time paid positions with area
Hme hi applq! 
or national firms during the lwo summers before graduation. Minimum 3.0 GPA required. 
Interview Dates:
. 

St. Mary's College: February 10, 1999 University of Notre Dame: February 11, 1999 
Register at the Career Services Center to interview. 
For more information, contod your Career Services (enter or Ronaelle (orison at rcarlsonif@aol.com or call 
{630) 466-8389. 

The International Foundation of Employee Benefit Plans is anonprofit educational orgonizotion. 
I.F. INTERNS PROGRAM 

International Foundation .-..® 
OF EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS ~ 
page 8 
N "'TIC) NAL NEWS Thursday, February 4, 1999
The Observer • n. ~~~~--2:'.._______________:_____..:..____ 
Arafat, Clinton plan joint prayer 
A.socidted Press Israel refusing to yield more of larger numbers ol' puopln in land until Arafat's Palestinian the revolving door, !Pt 111n sayWASHINGTON Authority imposes tougher that WP do lmve conn-rn:-;." Palestinian leader Yasser 
restraints on terrorism and The "r,wolving do"r"' is u ref­Arafat affirmed Wednesday hfl 
prosecutes susperts. erence to Israeli ciaims that. intends to carry out the stalled Arafat, in a bric!' exchange at suspects a.ru c.letainC'd am! LIHm 
Wost Bank accords with Israel. the doorway ol' the State quietly let-go. Protests grew, meanwhile, over Department, did not say how Another so nsi ti,.,, iss u1! is his planned meeting with he thought the process could be Arafat's poriodic ckdarations 
President Clinton at a prayer 
revived. that the l'al11stinians will Pstab­breakfast. On another touchy subject, he lish a stato whatev<•r the out­
Arafat, on a brief U.S. visit, is said Palestinian leadc!rs weni come of negotiations with due to discuss peace prospects grappling with the quostion of a Israel. with Clinton at a prayer break­·Palestinian state. "This can't be Rep. Matt Salmo11. H-i\riz.,fast Thursday. But the mentioned now," Arafat said. said ho planned to i11trnduce a 
spokesman for the breakfast 
The Clinton administration rnsolution opposing" unilaloral chairman. Rep. Steve Largent, has urged Aral'at to stop declaraLion of a l':ilnst inian H-0kla.. said Largent had declaring his intention to set up state. Sons. Sam Brownba('.k, H­asked Clinton last Friday "not a state next May if" nc~gotiations Kan.. and !{on Wyd,·11. IJ-Ore., to politicize the breakfast by with Israel fail to produce what said tlrny planned l11 introduce 
having the meeting." 
he wants. Salmon's resoluti1111 in the 
The spokesman, Brad Keena, In her meeting with Arafat, Senate. said Largent supported Arafat's Albright also raised concerns "It is impera1ivn that attendance but disapproved of about whether terrorist sus­
President Clinton 111,1 ko ii crys­Clinton's taking up controver­
pects are treated leniently by tal clear to Mr. Ar.ifat that a 
sial issues at the breakfast with Palestinian authorities, State unilateral of
declariltlon a the Palestinian leadflr. Department spokesman James Palestinian state is not an 
Hundreds of Christian leaders P. Rubin said. option and will not Im rncog­
plan to attend the 47th break­They also surveyed the nized by tho Unit(•d Statos,"fast sponsored by members of stalled West Bank process and Hep. Jerrold Nadln. D-N.Y.,Congress. But several Christian agreed to hold a meeting in said. and Jewish groups have called 
mid-Februa.ry of a joint U.S.­Hubin said the ad111inislration for a boycott and accused Palestinian commission to did not support a unilateral Arafat of an unrepentant ter­develop trade, scientific and declaration by the l'iilostinians. 
rorist past. 
cultural ties. Kubin said. "We think that would be a mis­
V.S. state department com­
The Palestinian leader got a take, that would undPrmine the ments on release of Palestinian boost before arriving, though, ability to negotiatt· a 1wrma­
prisoners when the State Department nent status issue," lw said. "We 
Demonstrations are expected 
announced it had no evidence have made that poi111 very clear outside the hoteJ. Keena called to support Israeli accusations to the Palustinians, 1!11d we will that evidence the breakfast had that suspects in attacks on con tin uc to do so." 
been politicized. Americans had been snt free. Randy Tato, execu I iv1) direc­"I am insistent on following "Those charges, so far as we tor of the Christia11 Coalition, up the peace process," Arafat can tell, a.re simply not proven said he would b,11 coll the told reporters Wednesday afier by any evidence," Hubin said prayer breakfast. i"o attend, a 40-minutfi meeting with Tuesday. Tate said, "would pr, ,vido legit­Secretary of State Madeleine While Rubin dispult\d Israel's imar,y to an unrep<·11tant ter­Albright. . assertion, he said that "with rorist who has th,· blood of 
The process is stalled, with respect to other rnlatPd isswis thousands 011 his ha11 ils." 
Drug combination may cause death 
.Assodated Ptelji 
Uoned Dr. Joseph Saba of the United Nations AIDS program.CrIICAG0 
Indeed, experts cautioned The death of two children in 
that the two cases could be a Fre.nch AIDS study. has coincideJltal, and the drugs
·raised :possi,bl¢ concerns· ahou.t· may riot be involved in. anyMug combinations used to way. prevent HIV-infected· mothers 
Blanche presented his data from pa.,sitjg the virus to their at the 6th Conference, on babies during birth./'\ lletrovituses andOpportuni'>ticThe use of the drug AZT to Infections. At the same confer­
stop mother-to-child tra11smb­
ence on Monday. Saba 
,sion of JHV is oftyn eitod as released data from a study in'tiiui ofthe·.greatest,:successes . Africa 'showing that giving justin efforts against AIDS. The 
one week of the AZT-3TC com­
drug can cut in half the risk, bination significantly cuts the which is typically around 20 risk of transmitting HIV during 
percr,nt toC25 percent.. childbirth,Since AZT's benefits in this 
·Saba said that even though area were shown fi.ve years the combinationis widely used 
ago, doci9rs in the.. United 
in industrialized countries. no Sta,tes·and France have largely 
one has seen any trend of 
switched to using AZT in com­
mitochondrial damage or 
bination with 3TC, a similar 
other unusual side effects in AID$. d.r:ug, for pregnan(_ babies,
\voinen·,,,'" ..· .. ···•· 
Dr. Kevin Decock of the 
.· .. OnT~~;day, Dr; Stephene Centers for Disease Control 
Blanche and others from 
and Prevention in Atlanta said JNS.E~M1 tho French research the CDC will investigate U.S. orgarilzation; presen,ted pre­data to see if ii turns up any
liminary l:]3Sults from a study health problems in the babies that compared AZTalone t.o of women taking the combina­.1:',~J p\~?. ,.?TC. Of J?4 babi~s tion.
··.•. hofo without AIDS, two who 
In all, the French study will took the drug ciimbination investigatl1 the effects of 32 developed a rare disorder and 
weeks of AZT and 3TC during·• died intheir first year oflife, 
pregnancy in ~he babies of 440
'> The'<lisoid'i1r is caused hy. women. Thfly will be comparedgenetic damage to the mHo~ with 899 who got AZT alone. 
chondriaJ DNA, which is a pos­
The preliminary results sible h<1:zard of drugs like AZT found that HJV was passed on . and 3TC, · 
to 3 percent of babies whose 
"We don't know if there is 
mothers got the combination any link at all between the 
and 7 percent receiving AZT deaths and these drugs,~ r.au-alone. 



The Notre Dame Law School Natural Law Institute Presents 
The Olin Distinguished Lecture Series 
"On the Novelties of an Old Constitution: Settled Principles and Unsettling Surprises" 
Hadley Arkes 
Edward Ney Professor ofJurisprudence and American Institutions at Amherst College 
Thursday, February 4, 1999 4 p.m. Notre Dame Law School Courtroom 
Thursday, February 4, 1999 
The Observer• NATIONAL NEWS 
page 9 

NATO could send U.S. troops to Balkans for five years 
Associate,! Press 
years. 
rnlwls havn agre11tl lo partic­

Thn Clinton team encoun­ipate in wmikcml puacn talks
WASIIIN(;TON tered considerablti skepticism. domanded hy lhn United
A NATO-led pnacnkneping 
Thn administration also 
States and NATO all iEs as

forcn c·ou Id bn nPPtlod in 
sharnd with lawmakers a dral't pressure incrnasocl 011 Serbia's
Ko:mvo f'nr thrn,: to fiv1! years ol' a U.S. sponsornd peace plan hard-linP govern111,•nt lo jointo 11111'orc1\ any 1rnat:c accord 
that would dramatically tlrn talks. NATO l1as thrnal­
and mit,;ht inrlwll' up to 4,000 
rnduc:,i Serbian control ovor nned airstrikos if S11rbia andAmPrican troops, llw Clinton Kosovo anrl giv,i tlrn provincn tlrn rnbnls arnn 't talking by
administration tole! Congrnss 
considerable scll'-govcrnment Saturday and closing a peace11n Wmlrwsclay, pownrs -whilc allowing some den! hy Fob. I CJ u11dnr talks
111 tnstimr;ny at a S1rnat11 
con tin twd SN bi a 11 mi Iitary oi·ganiznd by the U11il(\d Stateslrnaring. and in privaLn brinf­·pre:wnco. 
and l'ivn European p11wers.

ings with lawmaknrs, Tlw administration also Sonrn U.S. ground presPncu
l'rnsid1•11L Clinton's 11nt.ional 
plt!dgPd l.o provido a sorics of could Im crucial Lu any 1waccs1\curity tPam sought to pr<!· 
"bcncl1111nrks" to bo used as a 
accord because Kosovo's 

parn Cougrnss l'or tlw µossibil­
busis for nxtricaling U.S. Albanians "would llill fi.wl con­
ity of n second U.S. ground 
troops once thoy are intro· l'idcnt ol' having a NATO force
t·ommitmnnt in tlw Balkans. 
clucnd, congnissional and that clonsn't havo sonw reprn­U.S. troops havn benn in 
administration sources said. sontation by tho Cnilnd
llosn ia !'or I tw pas I th rnn Kosovo's dhnic Albanian Slatns."Def'e11sn Secretary 
---~~ Want to go to Miami forrri Cheap this Spring Break? Join the Notre Dame Rowing Club!! 
*No Morning Practices* *Fun Spring Races* *Great Way to Get in Shape!* 
No experience needed, Just come ready to work out at 6:30 p.m. in Loftus Tuesday, February 9, 1999 
William Cohen told the Senate Armed Services Commiltee. 
"Thoy feel that we, in fact, by participating in some meu­s urn on the ground, would give them the confidence they would not bo attacked by Serb l'orces." 
Cohen predicted a three-to five-year stay. if troops am introduced, but said the U.S. ground prcsencn would bn "relatively small," and that Europeans should make up llw bulk of the pnacekeepi ng rorce. The United States would retain the lead responsibility for anv airstrikcs. he said. 
And· in the most detailed description yet or what such tt force might look like, Gfl11. Henry Shelton, chairman or tho Joint Chiefs uf Staff, told thn committee he envisionml an overall NATO prcsencn of' from 20.000 to 30,000 troops. 
"Ottr numlmrs could Im very low. down maybe possibly as low as 2,000 to 4,000," Shelton said. "And I would scti tilat being the maximum mun­bcr that we would be asked lo contribute. even if they decid­ed to go in with 30,000." 
Slwlton str«'ssed that his !ig­u rcs were hypothetical because "the numbers are still being worked. The numhers that we would be asked to give would depend on what tile final numbers are." 
The administration had its work cut out for it in lobbying a Congress weary or thn long entanglement in Bosnia and concerned about a decline in military readiness. 
Sen. John Warner, fH-Va.), chairman or the Armed SPrvices Committee, said that the administration had wide support in Congress for airstrikes, if necessary, to force both sides lo the bar­gaining table. But. he said, a 
U.S. ground presence was another issue -one for which the administration would have to make a persuasive case if a peace plan is put in place. 
"At this juncture. them is a fork in the road," said Warner, who has advocated a U.S. ground presence for some time. 
Secretary of State Madeleine Albright and National Security Adviser Sandy Berger later joined Cohen and Shelton to give a private briefing to sena­tors on the situation. 
Later, Albright made a hasti­ly arranged dncision to deliver a major policy address on Kosovo to a foreign policy group on Thursday. 
A senior ort1cial. asking not to be idcntifiP.rl, said Albright planned to (ixplain why Kosovo was importunt to the national inlnrest. The official d (1 cl in ed to say whntbe r Albright planned any major disclosurns in thn spnech. 
Onn crucial issue is wlwther tlrn U.S. forces would he undnr 
U.S. or N!\TO eommand. 
Warirnr proposod that U.S. ground contingent be plac11d under the command of a British commander, while llw 
o vti r a 11 o po r a ti o n ro m a i11 und,:r a U.S. commmHIPr. 
A draft of' I.he pnacn plan shown to lawmak,irs would rnduce lhn numlrnr nf S1irbian troops in tlw province rrom the current ~!i.000 lo about 4,000, according to adminis­tration and congrnssional ofli­cials, who spoke on condition of anonymity. Tlw plan would grunt thn province significant powers of snlf-govcrnmnnt while Ii rn iting tho fu l urn Snrbian prnscnc11 mainly to that of a horclnr patrol. 
Al the Stale Dopartrn,rnt. spokesman James Hubin dol'ondod somn continued S1irb military prosencn in the provincn. "Tim fact of thn mat­ter is that Kosovo is part of' llrn Federal H11public of' Yugoslavia," he said. "The Fnderal Hepublic of Yugoslavia is a country. Kosovo is not." 
"P1wpln might want to wish away the nxistnncn of S1!rbs,"Hubin acldnd. "But there are Serbs there. And thnrr, have been provocations on both sidns in Kosovo... 
Cohen said that any agree­ment 1,rnding to U.S. troops in Kosovo would havn to be accepted by all thn rival fac­tions, including a commitm1mt 011 tho part of' Yugoslav President Slohodan Milosevic and the Serbs. "Tlwrn must be a real agreement," Cohen said. 
Lawmaki1rs exprnssed skep­ticism. 
"As wn have seen in Bosnia, wn have been there for more than three years, and it wasn't just 0110 deadline lapse -it was three," said Sen. Olympia Snowe, H-Maine. "We are now running up to $20 billion and going. And I don't think any­
C.LAIIOF'99 THI COUNTDOWN CONTI.MUii. .... 
Tonight--Chuck E. Cheese Pizza "Where a kid can be a kid" 822 W. McKinley Ave. Pizza, games, and more! 8:00 p.m. 
Friday--Celebration 99 ! 99 Days Until Graduation Alumni-Senior Club "Where a senior can be a senior" 
Class Dinner-Papa John's, must be 21 4:30-6:30 p.m. 
body really knows exactly when the end point will come." 


Cll.1B84TI 99 DAY-I UNTIi. GRADUATION 
99¢ FOR I.A.CH IYIMT! 

Thursday, February 4, 1999
The Observer• NATIONAL NEWS 
Gephardt aims to recapture House 
Associated Press promised t.o endorse him or 
whether Gore rcqunst<·d his 
WASHINGTON endorsement. "I hav<: pl,·dgcd 
Acknowledging it was "the to do Pverything in my power Lo worst kept secret in town," help Democrats win back tho House Minority Leader Dick House and make Dick Gcpliardt Gephardt formally told fellow speaker," Gore said. Democrats Wednesday he will Aller meeting with him ,mrlicr forgo a 2000 run for president Wednesday, Presidont Cli11Lo11 and focus on recapturing the called Gephardt's dm:isi1111 "tho House for his party, right thing for him and the 
'Tve handed that gavel over House of Hepresentativos." for the last time," Gephardt By not challenging (;un~, told more than 200 House Gephardt has avoidml a liitLcr Democrats and aides at a rau­fight that could havn divided cous pep rally in a Capitol and distracted Democrnls nuxt basement meeting room. year. Though Gum is lwing "When the 107th Congress challenged by former S,•11 Hill convenes in January of 2001, I Bradley of New Jersny and want to take that gavel back on could draw other opponents, vour behalf'." GPphardt was 
• Since 1995, consitlercd to be his strongest rival
th e SS-year-, I'VE HANDED THAT 
o 1 d for thn 110m ina­
Missourian GAVEL OVER FOR THE tion. Then\ still
has presided LAST TIME.' 
at the opening could lw some of three suc­skirmislws ovur 
cessive D1cK GcPHARDT the nuxL Lwo Congresses years lwl11·<:cn HOUSE MINORITY LEADER GephardL and the
t h a t 
Republicans have con­trolled, giving the gavel to GOP speakers Newt Gingrich and 
Dennis Hastert. 
As supporters waved white­on-blue "Speaker Gephardt" signs, Gephardt called for Democratic unity for a Congress "that reflects the hopes and dreams of the peo­ple rather than the unending drumbeat of a small minority bent on imposing their will on an entire nation." 
Gephardt never mentioned in his 11-minute speech that he had considered seeking his par­ty's presidential nomination next year, nor did he mention the front-runner for that post, Vice President Al Gore. 
Questioned later by reporters, he said his prospects for win­ning that nomination or raising the millions of dollars needed had nothing to do with his deci­sion. 
"I made this a personal deci­sion for what in my heart and my mind ... would make the best contribution I could make for public service," he said. 
Gephardt supporters, speak­

ing on condition or anonymity, 
said he decided that winning 
back the House was as impor­
tant to Democratic initiatives as 
retaining the White House. 
Gephardt also believed he had a 
better chance to become speak­
er than president, they said. 
Asked if he would endorse 

Gore -with whom he had 
breakfast Wednesday 
Gephardt said, "I haven't made 
any decision on any of that." 
The vice president, campaign­

ing in New Hampshire, refused 
to say whether Gephardt 
Whi tc I louse. 

Gephardt lws not been shy about opposi11g the president on trade issu1\s. And should a legacy-mindt!cl Cli11ton seek to cut deals with Republicans on overhauling Social Security or otlrnr issLws, he could run into opposition from Democratic lawn1ak<\rs eager to deny the COi' such accomplishments. 
"When we disagrn1• i11 tho future, and I'm sum tit.it will happen, I'll be saying \\hat I believe," Gephardt said. 
The decision also ka ves Democrats with their bl!Sl rnn­gressional fund-raiser and can­didate recruiter focusing on House races next ycar.·\\'lll'n control of the chamlwr 1\'ill b1\ in play. Hepublicans havu a mere 221-211 llous<' majority. plus one indepcnd1:111 who leans Democratic and two vacant seats the GOP is lil,;1•ly Lo 
win. 
"We're a significant st.1•1> dos­er to the majority by having him stay," said Hep. I.loyd Doggett (D-Texas). 
Gephardt raised as much as 
$14 million for hims<df' and 
other Democratic r.on)';n'ssional 
candidates in 1997 a11d I{)98, 
and campaigned !'or I IO of 
them. according to bis aidns. 
He also has helped rnngrns­
sional Democrats rormulatn a 
more moderate nwssa~1i in 
recent years, such as tlwi 1· deci­
sion to rally behind l'r,:sidcnt 
Clinton's call last yPar to 
reserve federal surpluses until 
Social Security is ovnrliaul11d. 
From liberals to consPrvatiws, 
Democratic lawmakPrs say 
Gephardt is a leader lilt'_\' l'an 
trust, 

Broadcast causes web traffic 
who triPd to viow Urn show. Associated Pres, "Somoonn did not anticipate -------------the lovel of interest," NEW YOHK She thought many people 
Victorit1's Secret broadco,std;¢might be grabbing tho good 
its annual Spring Fashion}>i'lfsoats early, so to speak, by 
Show over the InterneJ91}'?ol:<Iogging onto tlrn Web site and 
Wodnesday,butit wasn'l pre .·· ··. ccpi ng t hci r connections 
parnd for the nuntboroJpc() pk who tuned i1Uo 1vatch. · · The compulersfailed.Jtsmil lionS.ol'.W1tb surfers tried. t 
. log on, 'foe Web's\tf WilS sit{ gish, the vidl}'l·:9f th1i;I minu(e show "."~§ p~cn jagg and thc.sQnnd cutbJ.it. . . "That savs ti:;cm.e, thwtec nology is llQt l1P)9 snulJ",'' ~[L Wondy .llargle~ a.computg technician in lforke,ley. C,:lln; 
¦ TECHNO!.OJT'I 

po1i, thus prcwenting others rori1 logging on. . Tile fashion show was a 
1i.lllsto1w for th(I Int0rnot. It vas OIJC of tho fir$t large, c:do live video events in ·hid1 a corporation invos.tod 
_10ucnu1d J)r!)Stigo. . • 
The. show was W,ibcast 

sing ''slroaming video" t,ich­
ology. Streaming video· 
llows p1•ople to view live 
video without downloading 
large files. The quality of' the 
video depends on the number 
of people watching. how pow­
erfuI the computers are and 
how congested Internet traffic 
is. 
Bel'ore the show,. Anne Marie .. Blaire, senior manager of Inte.rnet brnnd develop­ment for Vittori.t's Secret, said tho compuy:ir~ --r1.1,.rt byBroadca,s~.com 7 ,y~r~ CQllt (igure,dJo ha.ndtebetwt;i~n2so,00Q.. and·soo;ooo i;imulta• 
.ncoU:s vlower:S. 
The total nunibe.r of people 
viowing the Wei:) site during 
thc show. would not. be .avllil­
able untilTbursday, 
AOL lobbies for high-speed cable 
As~o(iatcd Press 
WAS!II.\I(;'ION 
;\mcrit'.a Online is part ol' a lobbying coalition t'ornwd W<:dnesday with the aim of get­ting access to high-spocd lnt,irnct and data li11os con­lrollnd by cahli• TV cumpanins. 
Tlin a1rnounccment of" the 0pc11Not coalition comes almost a wer,k af'tcr the Federal Communications Commission dcridl)d not to open a proceed­ing that would force cabin com­pani1)s to share high-spned lines willi their competitors. 
Still, th<' FCC said it would keep an eye on the mallcr Lo n11sur1! that consumers' oplions for lntor1wt s1)rvicc ar1• not rnstricted. 
1\ccess tn the technology has pillt'd till' (·a!Jln industry against AO!. ,md consumer an<l interest groups it11d has producNi an intense lobbying battle over wilat llin I-CC and Congrnss shuulcl do. 

Tiu: coali1io11's "sdwme would surnly slow broadband doploy­nrnn t," said National Cabin Tclnvisio11 1\ssociation l'rnsitlent Decker Anstrnrn. 
In addition to AOL, others involved in the coalition are: Mi11dSpri11g 1:ntcrpris()S, Prodigy Communicalions Corp., Nntseap1). US \Vost, MCI WorldCom, Cnlilc & Wireless US;\, Washington ;\ssodation of' Inl<)1·1rn1 S,irvic11 Providers, Cybcrl{a111p l11t11r1rnt St•rvices, lkrtcdsr1i;1n11 IntPnwt. Services, Con llPrtNl'I and the Texas Intp1·1w1 s,,rvic1• Providnrs Association. 
US West President Sol Trujillo, at.tending a conference here, told reporters that his company will press lawmakers for legisla­tion giving companies access to cable's high-speed lines. He also said US West will seek legisla­tion permitting it and Urn nation's four other Bell compa­nies to move data across local calling boundaries, something tlrny aren't allowed to do now. 
AOL and MindSpring also wnrc among groups urging the FCC to force cable giant Tele­Communications Inc. lo provide rivals access to its high-speed linns as a condition of merging with AT&T. Analysts are saying tlrn FCC is not expected to impose that condition on the merger. 
Save the earth. Recycle the Observer. 
. ~~ ~~ .
; ~Ji Yafentine's 'Day .Jtds ~Ji : 
•
• : 
.•• 
• : 
. 
.• •••• • 
•

:for on{y $20 you can te{{your sweetheart how • mucfi you Cove fiim/fier witfi a syecia{Ya{entine's : 'Day at£in 'T'fie 06server. •
•

For~Le,(~V\/actual,~): •
• 

------------------.••
I Luve 1Juu, Pe11o/ Sue!! : 
•

---.
• 
v,c\u\Q.

• \\Q,t\\ • •••• 
'"J;Q,'t.' 

----~ .• 
•

1-f-p.,??11 V/.t,fontine.'s J)/.t,'1/
• L"11e, ]!>t,i~~i; •
. .......................... . 
:-'Reserve your adsyace 6y je6ruary 10tfi, andyour Sweetfieart : • ..'A£wi{[6e in Tfie Observer on je6ruary 12th. ..'Affads (and • • money) must be turnedin 6y je6ruary 11tfi at 11:00 am. • 
• Ca«1-6900 or visit us in tlie 6asement ofSoutfi. 'Dinino :J-{a{[ • 
VIEWPOINT 

Thursday, February 4, 1999-----·---­
THE OBSERVER 
Nornr ()~Ml Omer: P.O. Hux Q, Norrc Dame, JN 4655(, (219) 631-7471 S,\INT M111\Y'; Omn: 30<J Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284.5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EimoR-tN-CHIF~ 
Hc.thcr Cock, 

MANA<.IN1: f.nl't'oR BUSINES.~ MANA<,F.R !ln•n Rcinthaler Kyle Corlin 
A.\\IHAN I MANAGINt: f.01 fOR t 1,r;uhcr MafKcnL,e 
Nnll'~ l'u1mR . ......................Michelle Kr11p;1 At>VF.RTISING MANAGt:lt.......... , ..••.......•. Hryan Lutz Vu·Wrt>INT E:mmu ..................Ec!11;1rdo I.lull Al> DfSIGN MANAGER ........................ llmr Hnclot Sl•(IRI'; l'l>lhlR. ...Ka,hl~u, Lopr1. SY~TFM~ MANAGER ...............Michad Bronill<t SnNf f.rHmRL . .. Sar.,h Dylag CONTROi.i.ER ... . .. .. .. ... Dave Rogcro 
Kri,;11 Klit:ich Wm AnMJN!~TRATOR ..... ... Allison Krilfa SAINT M.,HtY's Enrroa ...M. Slunrmn Ryan GR.Armes: EmTOR ............................... Pet(' Cili:l!a l'uoro [mrnR . . .,.. , ........ K!:'i'in n,1Ium 
nll:' i lh..nvl'f ,~ 1lw 1mlq1cml("n! f\('\~r-11•cr pub~,111.'ll hv the_• \tmlc1n-. nf the Univn\itynf Nntrc [1,U)lc_• ~lu !.ac .,ml 
',,11111 ,\.f..1rv ..< '.,,lfq:s h ilcin nnt nc_·cc,\.1filv rdln:1 the.· pnlkio of th,• ,11l1r1itti\fr,irion ofeidu:r imtit,itton. T)1{• /1("\V\ is 
1q~1r1t-..f ,1, ,1c.rur.1tt•h• .tntl nbJl'tll¥1;!~• ,1, p,,,.,ihll• Un,1gtwi.l (lliwrt;t!~ repm,c-nl the npm1nn nf tlw mttjrif'tt}' nf dw 
hllll1f· IO·( 'Jud. M.m.1~11\~ hluo,. /\~'-''t,mt M.m.1~111~ hfitnr ,1ml drp:u11w:n.1 <"'-.1,rrm.. Cnmm<:'.nt.1r1c~. lcrtcr,; a.nd 
u,lunu" 1m..•11t•111 fill' vit""'' of,!,~· .unh. m. ,,nd nc" m•tt."~rify Iho,c o( The ( )h~crwr. Vic\\'f1rnnr .-.p:KV j._ :waihblt< m .ill 
m\·ml¾'f\ of thl· Num.: Il1mt•l'-t.\!111 M,,ry\ w1nmunnv ,11111 in .ill r1.• ,d,·r,. T!w free '-""rrc~~ion nf v.1rym~ ,,pmior,, 
1h1nn~h k·m,:r, 1, t'Otrnlf,ij.!t'll 
GmliK!inr. Ih.i;__Q.bru!u 
hlunr.111-( ·t,,d (l.\l--1'>~2 H11si1u·,s Ofni.:c 6.ll-5~ I.I ,\lm.1g111~ FdirorlAHi..,,in, ,\•1F 6.il .45,1 J Advnri.;;in~ 6.11 6900/8R40 Nrw,/[ 1lu11r, 6.\1.c; \2.i Sv~n·n,, (,~1-88.l'l 'P''"' <,J 1.4~4, l'~x 6.11-6927 'i.cnc/S,Hnt Muv\ (,Jl-4~40 Vicwpnim !'-Mail Vtcwpojnr. J(,iJnd.l"'du D.1v l'dm11/Vi,wpni111 . (ill-~\0l /\d F.M,il ob"icnrcrf!1)d,tNJin.cc.11d.ir-dt1 nflh-r M,111.1h~r/t;C'ncr,tl lntorm,ninn <,.\1-7471 New"-E-Mail oh,;crvcr.oh<i1lr-W"i. Jt11nd.~Jt, 
¦ t:OITORIAL 
Lead, Don't Follow: Approve Clause Amendment 
"The,· ( lw1110.1·ex11a/x) 11111.I'/ he ac,·t,pted 11·i1h re.l"pect, c0//1/Hl.1·.1·io11 mu! sensitivity. Every sign of unjust di.w'l'i111i1wlio11 in their regard slwufd be avoided." 
-CATECIIISM OF TIIE CATIIOLIC CHURCII, PAllAGHAPII 2358 
Wlwn tlw Univnrsity kickf'Cl {;I.NIJ/S:'v!C off mm­Univnrsity president Father Edward Malloy point­pus in l')'J!i, it kirk-starlncl an emotional and ml to the diffonmce bPtween Catholicism's defini­!wat1•d rhain Ill' ralliPs, rn11trovnrsi1is and tlwologi­tion of sexual orientation and thal of lh11 courts. cal d1•hal<'S ahoul gay righl'i at NntrP Damn. Malloy said the courts interpret "homosexual 
;\s it stands. homosPxuals n•cf'iV<• 110 l1igal pro­orimltation" as an umbrnlla hffm encompassing lPction from Nnlrc' Danw against snxual orimlta­both the existPnce of the snxual prnfcrnncc and its lion-has<'d discrimination. This must d11rngi•. accompanying lifestyle. Conversely, Catholicism 
On !·ridav. tlw Board of'Trust,•1is -an mllirP seJHtratcs thP concepts -homosexual orientation lll'.l'an away !'rom lh<' pcopll' its d1\ciSillll dirPdly in and of itself is deemed acceptablP, but tlrn atforts -has tlw pow1!r to right the wrong by Church rnjncts the activo lil'estyle and romantic approving .tlw addition of sexual orientation lo fodings. tlw l,igal non-discrimination claus1~. Notrn Dame contends that "frivolous lawsuits" 
In doing Sil, Notre Damn would r1mssnrl itsPlf as could ensue from the daus!l amendment. But vic­a tnu• IPadPr among its JWl'r inslilutillllS. tiins of discrimination need legal legs on which to 
;\s 111w dnfi•nse of' Notre Danw 's rutTPlll lack of stand, and hy deeming homosexuals undeserving !!•gal proli•ction for hmnosPxual stuclm1ts, public of such protection, Notrn Dame is sending its own rdalim1s rhil'f llminis Moorn pllillt!'d out that no discriminatory messagP. otlll'r Catholir u11iwrsity in tlw c:ounlry indudns The University should not fear or look down sPxmtl nriPntatio11 in its 11011-discrimi11atio11 clause. upon its homosexual students and faculty. Christ 
Bui Notni DamP did not 11,u·n iL'i ropulalion ,L'> prPadwd "lovo thy nnighbor" becausP he loved Uw pn•miPr Catholi<· 1111ivPrsity in th<i rnuntry by and acrnptml al! people; al a Catholic institution, it simply following somp01w ds1!'s lt!ad. is rational to cxpPct that each person would not 
WP rwPd lo blazt' tlw trail. not liillow thn pack. only be wclconrnd in thn spirit of that love, but By 11w logil' Moon\ ciLPd, Nntrn i)anm would foe! protectPd by it. pt>rfoctly justifil'd in rnlh1c-tivnly jumping oil' a The Spirit of Inclusion was a good first step, but liridg.-if •~wry otlwr Catholic institution in the U.S. without the law bnhind it, it lacks backbonn. Thn did it Spirit of' Inclusion simply suggests that no one dis­
i\dmitlt•dly, it can hn r.ornplicatnd lo rrn:onciln criminate, but homosexual studenl'i and faculty homos1\Xllality with tlw CalPrhism mnbracml by are the only group that has nowhnre to turn whnn Nolrt' Danw as an institution -but it is possibln. pPopln don't take the staternont to heart. No pPrson should r<~Pl pownrh\SS if' (hny'rn bning Still. it is doubtful the Board of Trustees will vklitniz1id for simply !wing him or lwrs,•11'. approve tlrn amcndmPnt without some kind of 
,\ 111ajority o!'Tlw Obs1•rwr l•:ditorial Board compromise. And it semns Notre Darmi can lake bPliPv1•s l111• llnivPrsitv should add S!!Xllal oriPnta­tht\ high road hem without contravening the !iiii1 lll !hr• c:lausP ami°hraw whalPVPr tlw fallout Cat<'chism. If thn Board plans lo rnjnct the amend-might lw. 11wnt llat-out. the Editorial Board unanimously 
Thi' C:a!Pchism mamlat.Ps that ho11111snx11als be implorns it to pursue the following compromise: tn•atPd with n·s1wct and h•~ savPd f'rlllll uriiw,t dis­Add sexual orinntation to tlrn clausn and insert a l'l'i111i11nliort. What is 'just' discrirninat.ion, tlrnn? rndidl clarifying that lhe University uses the tmrn Ilow ran orw j11stity n•l'using to prolnct hornos0xu­only in rn!'Pr!'nce to tho prnf'nrence in and of itsPlf. als from fll'llflle who dPny tlwm lh1\ rnspcclful That way, Notre Damn 11.dheres lo tlm Catechism trPatnwnt lhn Cal!'d1ism says tlwy dcs,~rvc? by not advocating homosnxual activity, but still 
In dl'l'c11s1• of dtoosing to neatt' a non-lt•gally givns homos1ixual studnnL.; the Inga! protection binding Spirit of' l11dusinn statPmPnt in I 91)7, that they, as human beings, richly desnrvP. 

¦ EDITORIAL 
Just Say No: Big Ten, CIC Wrong for ND 
"Notre Dame can either stcuu1 by the couraJ?e 1~f its convictions, definirig excelle11ce in its own te1111s and se1ti11g its own standards based on its traditional mission as a Catholic institution ofhigher leaming, or itcan scramble to meet the standards set hy other institution,1· with other and quite different missions. " 
-PROFESSOH KENNEHI M. SAYRE 
PHIUJSOPIIY DEPT., lJNIVHRSITY OF NoTI\E llAMF. 
The Big Ten and the Committee on Institutional Coop11ration are not for Notre Danrn. · 
There are numerous arguments to the contrary, but none can overcome the simple foct that the proposed conference member­ship will drMtically alter the unique status Nntrn Damn currenlly enjoys. By joining tho Big Ton and the CIC, the University may indeed improve its numerical standing in various academic polls, but at what cost to the quality of its undergraduate program; at what cost to its athlotic department; at what cost to tho Catholic character it claims to hold so dear'! 
Hankings are not what make Notre Dame special Its individuality and willingness to stand on iL'i own make Notr«} Dame special. 
Affiliation with the CIC. says Tony Hyder, associate vice president lbr Graduate Studies. "would immediatnly irnprovo our profile arnong graduatn and rnsoarch institutions." It is true that expanded opportunities for graduate studies and increased funding for research should enhance Notre Dame's ability to attract top-quality professors, but we question the passion that any such faculty would have for teaching undergraduates. 
Profile among research institutions is not what makes Notre Dame special. The superior quality of its liberal-art"> undergraduate education is what makes Notre Dame special. 
ln terms of athletics, t.lw powHrs-that-bn htlVP not 1:won dt,1d any genuine benefit'> or entering a new confercncn. There is the asser­tion that Notre Dame's geographical centrality mnong its potential Hig Ten oppo111mts would decrease travel timn and (\xpnnses. But tho probable switch from air travr,J to bus travel for away games would increase travel time in many cases. Also, Big Ten scheduling nuances are proj1)cted to cause moni class absnnc«!S for certain ath­letes. 
Volleyball coach Debbie Brown expressed excitemllnt about the strength ofcomputition in the Big Ten, but evm'I she cannot.justify the switch from the Hig East. "From a pure volleyba11 st.and point, I'd join the Big Ten," said Brown. ''Just looking at what's host for 
see BIG TEN/ page 13 

GARRY TRUDEAU
¦ 
~T-!JeT/§ AN/Nli!;'R­
,,.ANP/dt'Rl3-HOU?IT.•. a!AIT A 
NffTffYff;/<CAPl</ffH lfXfl.0­
COITINUING 
MINUTti,,, C'MON1

• OUR l/1$ OJvSl<­5/V!iG/?t}1,(/111 fVTlWT/Ai, IN 
/JAIJY,., IT'S UP,4

A~Of G{A~~ me/UTP/1/o '1D $~ 
TICK... Y/!G... YES,

-/1AY-77?APIN6,,. lrf/Nf/1l;&... /Jlf-Ofl,,, ()1/, 
Y£S... YPS/

NO... NO,,,NO! °" 
\ 

¦ 0UOTE OF THE DAY 
,Jf you eliminate smoking 
and gambling you will 
be amazed to find that 
almost allan Englishman's 
pleasures can be, and most­
ly are, shared by his dog.' 
-George Bernard Shaw 
VIEWPOINT 

os~ERVER ------------------Thursday, February 4, 1999 
The Will of the People, Alien Presidents and the Future of the Republic 
resentalive democratic governmenl of laws and

Yestord.ay .. the l'r.ont page o.f t·.he l'icw..YOl'k
Tinrns blitred: "DAMA(;ED BY TRrAL, potentially into a tyranny of the majority -as SENATE'S STANDING SINKS IN NEW that majority is defined by political polls. This 
POLL!" Smaller tense additions to the trnadlirrn past year. in the initiative-happy \Vest of which I contain a gloomy forecast of Republican losses in am part. there were a number of issues put tlrn 2000 eler,tfons and a declaration of the directly to the vnte of the citizens of my state of 
securel.y moored polling truth that, in contrast. Montana. Among them were many issues about which I simply did not feel qualified to vote with­
=========;;;;_;_;;_;_;_;;; "Clinton 
, Is Still out performing significantly more research. Popular." Granted, we were given little voter packets that The story gave sound-bite filled arguments for each side of that these the debate over the initiative, but these were
Brandon 
headlines hardly substantive or conclusive. Now. I don't adverLise consider myself an uninformed voter. In fact, I dissemi­would consider myself a pretty well informed
Williams 
nates and voter. Yet, I, on many of the issues, didn't feel analyzes that I bad enough knowledge, that I had done _______________ 
the enough research, to make decisions that might 
results of drastically affect my state's government and a new New York Times poll of a little over 1,000 economy and my children's future. Ideally, I've American adults. Basically, the verdict is that elected representatives whose sole purposes are the American people still approve of President to do the research and to educate themselves Clinton (an effective steward of a booming econ­properly so that they can act responsibly in my 
omy) and don't approve of Republicans (prosecu­interests and in the interests of what is right tors of the effective steward of a booming econo­when governing my state and my country. If I my). think that they are doing this My question is; who cares? • poorly, then it is my obligation According to the poll, 56 per­as a citizen in a Republic to
'YET, POLITICIANS, AND
cent of the American electorate educate myself before advocat­disapproves of the way the ESPECIALLY THE ing for substantive change and Senate is handling the impeach­electing people who would do
MEDJA, HAVE SOMEHOW SUC­
ment trial. Fifty-one percent a better job. would be satisfied if the trial was CEEDED IN DEIFYING "THE Similarly, most interviewed adjourned and the matter in this poll, even if they are
PEOPLE." THIS IS TAKING US 
dropped and 55 percent agree sick of the trial, are probably that impeachment is punishment PRECARIOUSLY AWAY FROM A not qualified to call for its end. enough and the matter should be REPRESENTATIVE DEMOCRAT-A just, fair and complete trial dropped. Yet. for all the oracular should take place given the 
dressing of "The Poll" as the IC GOVERNEMT OF LAWS AND Constitutional gravity of the voice of some new authoritative POTENTIALLY INTO A TYRAN-subject matter -even if peo­deity called "The People," only ple don't care, or think that
NY OF THE MAJORITY -AS
19 percent of respondents said the ramifications of any verdict that they had been following the THAT MAJORITY IS DEFINED will be limited. We elected rep­trial closely. In other words, resentatives to handle situa­
BY POLITICAL POLLS.'
although these people aren't tions like the impeachment paying close attention to a trial trial. If we are going to dis­that involves enough legally and Constitutionally agree with how they are doing so we had better specialized language and intricacies to daunt be informed in our disagreement. Matters like some first year law students, the media places this arc too grave to do otherwise. their collective opinion on whether or not the Much of this reverence for "Polls" and "The trial should continue right up there with God's. People," like the initiative system in the West, And Congress is listening, even though this trial came out of the Populis1JPr~gressive movement. really does tread in areas of potentially signifi­They were justified reforms, as the poor were cant philosophical, governmental, structural and being terribly oppressed by overly inlluential legal ramifications. In fact, this story about a moneyed interests. However, as Teddy Roosevelt poll is considered so important that it shares the pointed out during the campaign of 1912, these front page with news of the actual proceedings reforms and this power placed in the hands of of the impeachment trial, air attacks on Iraq, the the people must be used responsibly. In the end, 
Kosovo Peace Talks. potential ways to lower risk this responsibility goes back to the "eternal vigi­for coronary disease, the death of one of the lance" that is the "price of liberty," as prescribed greatest art patrons in American history and the by Thomas Jefferson. In other words, if we don't 
significant rise of unemployment :in Japan. want to regress as a nation, we need to stand up 
I am reminded of a Simpsons episode from or shut up -not something in between. around the time of the '96 Presidential campaign Although one shoul61 not underestimate the in which President Clinton and Senator Dole are gravity of the impeachment trial, the American 
kidnappPd by aliens who then proceed, through political system will rebound whatever the out­sinister alien technology, to impersonate the two come. Perhaps, rightly or wrongly, the candidates in the presence of the American elec­Ifopublicans will pay in 2000. The greater and 
torate. The two aliens speak openly of the more lasting danger is an uninformed electorate. demise of American civilization, Yet, they do it If its whims and largely ignorant collective opin­with !lare: and so the electorate stays happy. ions continue to be viewed as sacrosanct then During one particularly poignant satirical not only will poor government result, but dema­moment the alien candidate T)()le gives a speech gogunry will eventually rear its ugly head. Then about abortion. He begins with, "Abortion for 49 percent of the people might !ind out the hard nobody!" The crowu boos. In an al.I too common way that 51 percent of the peoplP can be wrong. political reversal alien-Dole goes on, "Abortion l'or t~wrybody!" The crowd boos again. Thinking Brandon Williams is a history and philnsDphy for a moment, he then proclaims, "Abortion for major who, although he insisls he is from some, and littlf\ American !lags for everyone Monlana, annually lament.'! his molle from else!" The crowd goes wild. Cal~fornia to Big Sky country by throu:ing a 
Unfortunately, the reason this Simpsons beach party -fake sand, plastic pools, Beach episode is so funny is because its satire humor­Boys and all -for he and his surfer buddies. ously portrays the truth. What is this truth? The Oh, and he has not formed an opinion as to American electorate, of which we are all a part, whether or not the Pre:~ident should be thrown is currently uninformed, inconsistent, presump­out ofoffice. His column runs every other tuous and concerned mostly with the mainte­Thursday. 
nance of personal security. The views expressed in this column are those 
Yel. politicians, and especially the media, have of the author and not necessarily those ofThe somehow succeeded in deifying "The People." Observer. This is taking us precariously away from a rep­

¦ LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Responsibility for the Problem of the Poor Does Fall on the Rich 
In a recent column, Dustin Perrell argued that Catholic teaching does not view as morally problematic the posses­sion of' significant wealth, as long as this wealth is obtained ~ethically." Ferrell strongly criticized those who contend that the rich are "in deep moral and spiritual peril," In truth, however, Catholic teaching does raise grave concern about the very possession of wealth, particularly in a world in which there arc persons who lack basic necessities. This is a central theme that rnns from the Bible to contemporary Catholic Soda! Teaching. 
Jn'thc Bible, criticism of wealth is a common theme in 
'''THE RICH," CHRYSOSTOM STATES, "ARE 
IN POSSESSION OF THE GOODS OF THE 
POOR, EVEN IF THEY HAVE ACQUIRED THEM 
HONESTLY OR INHERITED THEM LEGALLY." IF 
THE RICH ALLOW THE POOR TO GO HUNGRY 
(AS NEARLY A BILLION IMPOVERISHED PER· 
SONS GO HUNGRY IN OUR WORW TODAY), 
THEY ARE "A SPECIES OF BANDIT."' 
Jesus' preaching. ~woe to you who are rich," Jesus states, "for you have received your consolation. Woe to you who are filled now, for you wiH be. hungry" (Luke 6: 24-25). "How hard it is for those who have wealth to enter the kingdom of God. For it is easier for a camel to pass through the eye of a necdlii than for a rich person to enter the kingdom of God" (Luke 18:24-25). More positively stated, Jesus calls all per­sons to a deep love which would gladly lead to sharing with those in need, such that the amassing of personal wealth would not even be thinkable. 
In tlw early church, strong warnings concerning the dan­gers of wealth continue. Highlighting the identification of Christ with the poor, St. John Chrysostom states: "You eat to excess; Christ cats not oven what he needs. You eat a variety of cakes; he cats not even a piece of dried bread ... You live in luxury on things that properly belong to him. Chrysostom hern highlights the biblical notion that the goods of the earth are intended for all. "The rich," Chrysostom states, "are in possession of the goods of the poor, even if they have acquirnd them honHstly or inherited them legally," If the rich allow tho poor to go hungry (as nearly a billion impoverished persons go hungry in our world today), they are "a species of 
bandit." 

Contemporary Catholic Social Teaching reiterates the claim that no one is justified in possessing more than is required to meet their own basic needs while others lack necessities. Pop<! Paul VI, in his 1967 encyclical Populorum Progressio, states: 
"It is well known how strong were the words used by the Fatlrnrs or the Church to describe the proper attitudeof per­sons who posS(\SS anything toward persons in neod. To quote St. Ambrose: "You are not making a gift of your possessions to tlrn poor pPrsm1. You are handing over to him what is his. For what has bnon given in common for the use of all, you have arrogated to yourself. The world is given to all, and not only to the rich." That is, private property does not constitute for anyono an absolute and unconditioned right. No one is justilind in keeping for his exclusive use what he does not need, when others lack necessities" (Populorum Progressio 
23). 

Popn John Paul II has addressed further the structural con­nections between wealth and poverty, The pope argues that justin• and solidarity rnquire "sacrificing the position of income and pownr rnjoy0d by the more developed oconomios." What is noeded, the pope states, is "a change of lil't\stylns. or models of' production and consumption, and of tho ostablish<~d structures ol' power which today govern sod­otics." (Cnntosimus Annus 52, 58) 
While all or us may fall short of living as simply as possible in ordnr to sharo our 11xcoss weaHh with others (a simplicity which would also limit our ecological impact), this dearly is tho goal towarcl which we shoµld be striving. At the same tirno, as Catholic Social Teaching $uggests, God's call oflove demands that wn work fortM.establishrnent of more just social systems, systems in wbi.cli thu world's goods are more equitably distributed and creation more responsibly tended. 
John Sniegocki 
Graduare Student, Dept. ofTheology ecniaiJ: Gr,)ppe-Sniegocki. l@nd.edu February 3, 1999 

-.-...,.... 

VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, February 4, 1999 os~ERVER ------------------------page 13 
Big Ten 
continued from page I I 
tlw stu<lcnl-athl,•t1i, though, I think it's lwst to stay in tlw Big Ea.st." Slrt!ll).,rth ol' conli•n•ncn is not what lllilkl's Notn· I>amn sp11ci11l. 
Its d1•dicati1111 to tlw nnnds and con­rPrns !lf' it"' slmhmt-athlt~lt•s is whi1I makns Notr1• Daum sprn:ial. 
lnd<•t•cl, Notn• Panw football has nourished ouLsicl1• tho confinn::; or a co11fort>1H'.I'. [mh•pnmlmn sLalus pavnl tlw way for a hn:rativ1! l<•l1•vision 1·011­lrnfl witl1 NBC:, which not only pro­vicl1•s Notr1• Damn wit.ha major sourr1\ of rPv1•1111c, hut also rrr,atPs national 1>xpos.m• for tlw l'ootball lPmn. 
Additional exposurP Prnanatcs from tlw gn!lgrnphic cliwrsity of th1\ teams Lllat highlight Notw l>am'1's yearly sdwdulcs. Sinc1\ tlw mnmhnrs of'tlm dm;s ol' '1)1) w,~n• l'n~shmcn, llw foot.ball l.1•11111 has pl1ty1id ganws 11! Washington, T1•xas, USC, Stanford. Boston Collng«\ Pittsburgh, I.SU. llawaii and four mttjnr Big Tf!ll sitl!s. The hmwlits of this nxposllr<' in tlw rncruiting procriss c·111n111t lm 11111lrrnstimatncl. 
Though sonw <0 oad11•s lt1tv1\ imlic1tli'CI lliat ll11•ir rncruiling philosophy and lc1c11s would not !'lrnngn with Big Tnn 1111•mhPrship. llwn' ran hr no doubt that many play1•rs would havp srn·ond thoughts abolll atWnding Notrr Dame without its lt•IPvision rontract and i11tPr-rPgio11al sdw<lulr . .'\rnl despil1\ tlm 1·.oachos' attPmpLi; to prt\SP-nt a pos­itive 1111llook on tlw situation, it sn11ms that n<mP would chooS{! Big Trn mmn­lH•rship ov1!r continued i11d1\pnndnncr. 
HP1T11iting Midw1•slPrn talent is not what makrs Nntn• Da1111\ special. 
Its ability to cuptum tlm lmarL'i and souls or stmhmts f'rom far and wide is what makPs Notn• Damn spncial. 
Ironically, th1• Big Tnn's historical rnjPction of NntrP Dmne is tlw mason I.hat 1.!w lholhall program remains inr!1•p1•11d1•nt. !\rcording lo Murray S1wrlll'r, author of Onward lo Victory. 
¦ LETTER TO Tl-IE EDITOR 
Fast against Discrimination, Fast for the Family, Fast for Catholic Values 
</--//-.~/;;> 
~----== ..... --:;::::._ 
anti-Catholic snntimenl. was a strnng contributing foctor in Lim confornnrc's 
rr,p1•atPrl denials of the Univnrsity's applications liir admission throughout 
tlrn P.arly part or the 21lth rpntu ry 
Neither tlw Big Tm1 nor Urn CIC r:ur­rontly boasts a Catholic member. In f'arl, almost. 1'V<'ry one of univcrsilfr~s Uwt comprise the C!C am publidy opcratnd institutions with no obligation whatscwvnr lo tak<' the c1mc0.rns ol' a Catholic: university into consid,iration. (;iv<•n tlw Nolrn Damn adminislration's 1indlnss us<' nf rlrntoric regarding the Catholic charactm of tlm University for lhP pmpos1•s of dt1fonding its nutdatPd and cfo,criminatnry pnlicim, toward particular nmmbnrs of thn ~otr11 Damn family, th0. dm,ir,~ to form a pnrtnnrship with tlm Big Ton is outragt'ous. 
Ultimatdy. the Big Ten and CIC are organizations that havn discriminated against Nolrn Damn in tho past on Lhe basis of'its Catholic charadPr, and they arc organizations that reserve the right to 1mgngo in rnsnurch and oth11r activi­li1•s that ny in the l'arn of th'1 Catnchism our u11ivnrsity purports to uphold. 
In accepting a pmtnnrship wilh thoSl' organizations' nmmbnrs. Notrn Dame is soiling its soul for the socular inter­Psts of'a powf~rf'ul 1\-iw. ;\ccording to the Stuclnnt Snnatc, tho Campus Lifo Council and Um student body presi­drnt. tlw undergraduat1i population of Notn1 namc opposes Rig Tnn anilia­tion. According to Elizabnth Toomny, president of the Alumni Association, Urn alumni who had contadnd her W<!rn strongly oppoSt!d to nwmbership in the confnn\ncn. According to snveral profnssors. the Faculty Snnatn vote in favor of CIC partirnrship was not rnprc­snntativP of thn raculty as a whole. 
,\dministrativn bullying and grnnd am not what makn Notre Damn spn­rial. 
ll'i dedicatnd stud0.nL'i, loyal alumni ancl passionatn faculty arn what make Notre Dame spncial. 
Th11 list could on and on, but the cr-n­lrnl point n•mains: The Hig Ten and tlrn CIC aw not for Notre Dame. 
Why am I l'usting'? In short. I am l'asting in supporl of Catholic valuns. Them is a popular bumpnr stickor that reads "I Iatn is not a family valLw." Since th<1 C:atlmlit' Church supports f'amilins and family vahms, why would tlrn Church ever suµport hate'? llat1i is not a family valtw. llatn is not a Catholic value. Discrimination is hate. Discrimination is anti-Catholic. Discrimination is wrong. t\s a Catholic. I pray for changn. This is why I'm fasting. '.\fog l'enrosn, Cmtnr for Civil ancl I luman HighL'i. 
Mary Margaret Penrose LLM Candidate, Norre Dome I.aw School Ccnrcr for Civil md Hltman Rights February 2. 1999 
¦ LETTER TO THE EOITOR 
Hypocrisy? Hmmmmmm ••• 
Throughout the coursf' of this ynar of which it would snem yn11 havc never I have followed closc!y tlrn on­he!in a part. Thus, Imm you question if going debate over the non-dis-we should <Wen bother with a debatn 
crirninatiqn clause, one which will bl' that renters on m1suring/d<'nyi11g tlrn resolvml (at least in theory) this wnek­legal rights or a minority group. Sounds end in London. Timn and again during a lot to mo lik<J tlw kind of' argunrnnt this period I havo noted with amaze­that provontcd the N/\t\CP from l'unc­
ment tbat with Lioning earh passing harassment­week. Urn argu­rre'1 in thr. ments seem to Deep South
'THUS, HERE YOU QUESTION IF WE 
grow morn during the 
SHOULD EVEN BOTHER WITH A
spirited, and I%O's. Or thn 
tlrnir rcspnctivn DEBATE THAT CENTERS ON ENSURING/DENY-kind that combatants f'unlml bon­
ING THE LEGAL RIGHTS OF A MINORITY 

more impas­lirns of' books slonf'd. I must GROUP. SOUNDS A LOT TO ME LIKE THE in Gcrmany admit that by 60 y1\ars ago.
KIND OF ARGUMENT THAT PREVENTED THE 
no means am [ You call us as firm in lrnli1\f NAACP FROM FUNCTIONING HARASSMENT-hypocrites for 
on this issue as attending to
FREE IN THE DEEP SOUTH DURING THE 
many of my fol­the strength
) 960's. OR THE KIND THAT FUELED BON-
low students, and future of and that this FIRES OF BOOKS IN GERMANY 60 YEARS our own com­
fact likely con­

AGO.'
tributes to my naivete of their convictions. 

This is not, however, the real cause for my writing. or shall I say my alarm. In a letter published yesterday· by Dillon freshman Nathaninl llannan, I was unfortunate enough to mad what I 
consider some of thn most dis­couraging comments of the entire debate. In com­menting on Monday night's pro non-dis­crimination rally guest starring Phil Donahu'1, it seems that Mr. I lannan used some swer.ping gcn­'1ralizations which do littln 
but support the very hypocrisy which he claims to con­demn. 

I am not a homosexual. Or maybr. I am. I'm in favor of tlrn non-discrimi­nation clause. Or maybe I'm not. Who knows? Maybe you, Mr. Hannan arc also all or none of these things. Such. how'1v­er, is not the issue. What is Urn issue are comments such as, "Let us agitate for real peace, real truth, real justice for those whom it malty mattPrs and forg11l about our petty difforcnccs." I'm strug­gling with tho concept of this statement. For whom does real peace, truth and justice really matter? Or perhaps more fittingly, for whom DO THEY NOT M/\T­TEfl? rf you arc capable of making this distinction, Mr. llannan then I applaud your prescience and congratulatn the philosophy and thoology departments for having sMt you. 
My favorite statement is not Urn afore­mnntioned, however. but rather one that slates despite ongoing genocide and political oppression in otlrnr parts ol' the world."... on the campus of thr. prcminr Catholic university in i\merica, we are whining about how there isn't legally binding protection for a very small group of people." I hope you would agree that "very small group of people" is synonymous with tho word minority, munity while ignoring tlrn plight of' those 
els'1wlrnre. In tho samr. breath. howev'1r, you tell us that we must fight for rnal justice, as long as it pnrtains to tlrn ('1th­nic/racial/sor.ionconomic, etc.'!) majority. You spmtk of hypocrisy? In the words of 
onn song lyric. "(Maybe) It's limn for 
everyone to clean up their own back yard. b0.fnre tlrny go knocking on their neigh­bor's door." I have hoard many arguments for and against the inclusion of tlrn non-discrimi­nation clausn in the past fow months, but it senms to me that your's Mr. Ifan nan has litlln at all to do with 
this issue. For it also snnms, you are by no mnans indicting one sidr.·s stance on tlrn argum'1nt, but rather tlrn fact 
that thu argu­
mnnt is occur­ring. Tho last time I chnckocl, 
education, in par­ticular that which is supposed to ­
occur at onn of the world's lcading uni­Vfffsities, was mnanl to 

1mcourag0. such discus­sion. Bnyond nven tlrn sr.opn of "our small prob­lems undnr the Dome," thn last time I chocked nn dnmocrar.y, 
it was supposml to do tlrn same thing. Perhaps if' ntlrnr. oncn considnrPd "petty" problnms had benn addrnssecl in placns such as Tehnran and Timor. thPn tlrn atrocities which am currently occur­ring lhore would not be. It socms to mn that no mattor our sexual orientation or 'mr.rnly' our stanco on this particular issue. wo are all among thn group "for whom il rnally matters." You speak of having "a chanco at t.hn Kingdom on narth (sir) in fulf11lment," only aftrr we put asicfo our "pntty di/'fnrcncHs." If w,1 are all God's children. hownvcr, it sePms to me that none of us arn petty. It would also scorn to nm. then!l'orn, that nfiither arc the walls or thP issues that dividn us. 
Paul A. Camarata Freshman, Dillon Hnll February 'I, 1999 


s
C 

-· 

Thursday, February 4, 1999 OBSERVER page 14 
Fun in the sun: Spri 
For those of you wl10 love to wait to the last 01inute to 01ake Spring Breal( pl~.-:111s, Scene provides you with some alter11atives to si1e11ding the week in South Bend 
By ANNE IASELLA Scene Writer 
Still contemplating Spring Bn•ak'' !Jo visions ol' warm beaches. tropical mixed drinks and Liny bathing suits noat through your mind'_' 
Not to be the bcarnr of bad news. but, this dream is about to sllatL1•r. 1\s Spring Bruak approaches, 11ights begin to !'ill up and the ulti­mate party package that a r.1,uplt• ol' months ago seemed reasonable will now l1r1iak rour butlgol. But, for you -the onu in tlw cnrnpuli!r lab al l'our 
a.m. last night -tlrnrn is still hope !'or ll111 hope­less procrastinator. 
Thanks to United Limo. thci l'ull l"lights out of' South Bend won't stop you f'rom making your ulti­mate spring break get-away a rnalit_, _ For LhosP big spenders out there. tlw sky is tlw limit. How about a trip to Jamaica? It'll only cosl you fro111 $637-717 based upon a four or l'iV(! person esti­mate. This trip includes hot«il, lax, l'light. a part.v package, transfers to and f'rom Llw airport and a room at a cliff-side property. 
For the less adventurous. who ltav<· visions ol' domestic beauties and hunks in miiid. l<DV \V(1st is your ultimate destinalion. I magi111· _vo·u and a member of the opposit(\ s<1x in a war111 pari(:Lal­f'rt>,' 1!11vir11111111)111. V\lhilP you snuggle up to that ifl'i,;;istililt t>Llwr. rmnombcr that. you arc <11rncl­i11g tllll ultilllHln ,\/otrn Dunrn romance (af"Lor all it's dnsli1J!•d tu l,1• ovPr within a week). This trip will cost ::-,2:i<J-SOO l'or a scv1rn-nighl stay at a hot<·I a11d S-+OO--+.,O for a l'liglll 0111 of Chicago. 
\\'hilc C:111t·1111 ;111d Orlando arc• popular dPstina­lion.~. iL s1•t•ms lik,: tlwro's always room for more. 1:or those 1i1· vn11 who don't huvP l'ret• access to your f'ath,,r's ha11k account, I.his trip is for you. /\ l'liglil to lJ1·land11. ['iV(! nights ill a hotel and tax will 1·os1 S~.-;:,;_ 1\11rl snrrv. l'rPn covers at Pleasur1! lsla11d ar1·11'1 in.-!ud11d.· Cancun. however, docs olT1,1· all tl11• l"i-1•c •·ovnrs and drinks you want. but, I'll if't .v1111 dncidt• if you're, gdting a deal. This trip i11t·l11d,•:; b1,,1,·ll-l'ront propt'rty. a !'light out ol' Cliirago. t.1x. 1r,111sl'ors and a party package /'or $74.,. 
"11· you h:1\I' fri,·nds studying abroad, call them up. 11-rit1, a11d s1,rnl sonH' care packages," says for­nwr /\ntlio11y Tr;iv<il 1imploy1:P Bridget 1-!ulland. Of'L('ll ti111,·~ 1·1igl11.s to l:uropci are cheaper than thns!' in il1t· LS Flights to London are $288 out ol' O'lla1·,, plus a :~77 tax. But you can't prorrasti­uat,· mu1·l1 l"11gnr 
II" llw 1_1 pica I ~pring brnak mnat market isn't your tiling. tli,·11 :lwrn may still be a possibility lo 

takn a seminar in Washington, D.C. through the Ccntc,r for Social Concerns. As you plead with tlw slaff at the CSC, you'll think it's still DAHT time because the official application due dato was January 28_ But according to Jay Brandenburger, dirnctor of the s11minar. applications are still lwing accepted. 
"All thn olher seminars are full, but the seminar on violence and nonviolence in American life might still be accepting applicants," said Brandenl.rnrger. 
This one credit program provides an undcu­standing into the problem uf' violence in the United States and an exploration into its solu­tions. Ye!>, out-of-class assignments are included, but this is one Spring Break trip you can feel proud or a!'ter your return home. 
As my assignment ends yours is just beginning. According to Anthony Travel agent Kayleen Carr "things have been pretty picked over," so it's time to put aside the dawdling and get going. While Spring Break seems eons away to the typical col­lege student, the long lines at the travel agency will surely inject a dose of' reality into any pro­crastinator. 
Still looking for that ultimate Spring Break getaway? Check out these prices. 
Orlando: 
Fi\'e nights stay in hotel and round-trip airfare: $288 
Jamaica: 
Ilotel, tax, flight and party package: 8637-717 
Key West: 
Seven nights stay in hotel: $259-800 Round-trip airfare: $425 
London: 
Flight only (out of Chicago) ,l&288, plus international tax 
Cancun: 
Hotel, flight and party package: $745 



s • 
page 15----------------------OBSERVER ---------------Thursday, February 4, 1999 
¦ SCENE THROUGH OUR EYES 


Student snapshots ••• 
Parrothead Wisdom 
By SARAH DYLAG 
Scene Ediior 

Tropical islands, Jato nights and long sunny days on the beach spent sleeping off hangovers. Welcome to Spring Break. 
But, for thosn of you planning seven days of fun in the sun during the first week of March -don't make the mistake of" thinking you're not going to learn anything on your vacation. Surn, you'll pack your books away and vow not to study. You'll boy­cott. the reading assignments your professors gave you and promise to fry any extra brain cells under the afternoon sun or in the midst of evening activi­ties. 
But you can't Hscape it. Because in the back­ground of your tropical paradise, somewhere, someone will be playing Jimmy Buffett music. It's almost a requirement for any true Spring Break adventure. 
And, thus, as the music floats to your ears through salty, ocean air, you will acquire vast and unparalleled knowledge. 
All you really need to know about life comes from a Jimmy Buffett song. 
Philosopher, engineers, poets and overprotective parents may debate this fact, but the truth cannot be ignored. When it comes to adventure, money, romance, relationships and fun, Buffett has it all figured out. 
Take, for example, the advice he offers about life in general in "Now and Then." With infinite wis­dom, he tells his listeners, "If you leave it then somebody else is bound/ to find that treasure that moment of pleasure/when yours, it might have been." Although he never defines the elusive "it," the message of the line is clear -"carpe diem". Don't be afraid to reach out and chase after what you want because if you don't take a risk, you might never know what could have bnen. 
Perhaps you need some advice about money. Look no further than the insightful "A Pirate Looks at Forty." Here, Buffett explains how he "had enough money to buy Miami, but pissed it away so fast. Never meanl to last." In other words, money slips through your hands like water and it can't buy happiness. A trite clichc, perhaps, but one that we all need to remember as we set out trying to figure out the rest of our lives. Instead of money, look for something more meaningful and you'll probably be a lot more successful. 
Or maybe you're just looking for a little adven­ture in your lifo. or course, th() king of crazy adventures has all of the answers -To hav() adventure, one must stay open to new experiences. As the story in "Last Mango in Paris" ends, "There's still so much to be done." Setting and reaching goals is always an accomplishment, but it doesn't end until you stop breathing -so don't ever stop. Life will throw you new adventures everyday. 
The list could continue, but the lyrics will he more effective ii' you pick up a Buffett CD for your­self -there are more than enough to chose from. Let it play in the background while you soak up the Spring Break rays and you will return to this Midwestern paradise a much smarter and highly enlightened individual. 
011ce you grasp the simple Parrothead concept that lifo does not have to be as serious as we make it, a lifetime of adventures can begin. You can live "happily ever aft.er. every now and then." And you'll havo Spring Break to thank for it. 
·­
.... 
Top: Notre Dame stu­dents are seen outside a cafein Valencia, Spain during Spring Break 1998. 
Middle: Notre Dame students Peggy Watson, Leigh Noethen, Karla Acayan and Nina Stephan (left to right) pose outside their hotel in Cancun, Mexico last year. 
Bottom: Three Notre Dame students enjoy themselves in a plaza in San Sebastian, Spain during last year's Spring Break. 

The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
page 16 The Observer• SPORTS Thursday, February 4, 1999 

AA«iated Press 
NEW YORK 
The most important change to the New York Knicks might not be the addition of LatreU Sprewell. It could be the sub­traction of Charles Oakley. 
The Knkks enter the lock­out-shortened l 999 season with a drastically altered ros­ter. The talent seems to be upgraded, hut the toughness has been reduced. 
Gone aro Oaklev, the heart and soul of the team, John Starks, the spark plltg offthe bench, and veterans Chris Mills and Terry Cummings; 
In their place are Sprewell, the three-time All-Star best known for choking hL'i coach. and a host of others including Marcus Camby, Kurt Thomas, Dennis Scott, David Whigate and Hick Brunson. 
"It's a whole different tea~ In '99," said Herb Williams, who along with Patrick Ewing· is the only holdover from the Kn.icks team that went to the NBA Finals just five years ago, losing in seven games to the Houston Rockets. 
No longer will opponents fear the wrath of O?kley when they drive the lane;·.· 
No longer will they wonder whether Starks will come off the bench to quickly sink three 3-pointers. 
Now, opponents will strug­gle to figure the Knicks out as they struggle to figure tl:ietP~ selves out. 
"This year, the trouble with · · all the newness ls we're not going to have a chance fo work our way through it," said Jeff Van Gundy, who enters his fourth season as head coach. "It's a little bit scary for a team that's a.little bit older and undergoing,aJot of change to be doing thatin 


Knicks lose Oakley, Starks, sign Sprewell 
this type ofyear." 
The Knie ks will certainly be different. and problems could develop as New York tries to mix the best of tho old with the best of the new. 
What happens the llrst time the Knicks arc down by a point with JO.seconds left'? Who gets th1'l'last shot? 
Do they give the ball to Ewing, as they've done for moro than a decade? 
Do they give it to Sprewell, who can create his own shot as well as any(}ne? 
Do they give it to Allan 
Houston, Wht! was·.supposPd to be. the tearu'.s next super­star until Sprewell came along? 
Only time will tell. 
"I foel very good ubout this team. I think we've grown to really like tosee each other do well." sahl Houston, whohas.··consJsNn.Hy· deferred lo. 
Ewing during his two seasons in New York. "We really seem to pick each other up in prac­tice. 
"But as far as intangibles, you really can't tell if' this team is better:" 
For the pasti four years, tho Knieks have\been unable to make it pa.st the second round of the playoffs despite the additions of Houston, Larry Johnson, Chris Childs, Charlie Ward and countless others. 
They were eHminated 4-1 bythe lndfai!a. Pacers last seas9n afte{~~ibg unexpect• ·• 
edly return~d from a career~ threatening ,vi'istfracture. 
So many years of getting older but not advancing fur­ther led general manager Ernie Grun.fold to trade Oakley, whq had been with the KnicksJol'lO years, to the Toronh:t)iRaptors for 
Camby. · ··· 
¦ NBA 

Kukoc takes on leading role 

Associated Press 
DEERFIELD, Ill. 

For Toni Kukoc. the days of heing the much-chastis0d third option are over. 
No more screaming from coach Phil Jackson, no morn coming of'f the bench as the Chicago Bulls' sixth man, no more deferring to Michael Jordan or Scottie Pippen. 
On this remodeled team. Kukoc is the man, the go-to guy in whal will surely be a season filled with losses. 

Kukoc wears a look of rnlief these days. glad he was part of thrne championship teams but eager to move on in this now role. IL means more leader• ship, morn scoring anrl morP shots for the Croatian. 
''If I need a reminder ol' the past, I can just look up here,"Kukoc says of' the cham­pionship banners bunging on the walls al the Bulls' practice facility. 
Kukoc scored 32 points i.n the Bulls' exhibition loss to Indiana earlier this week, a mixture of' jump shots -a part of his game that can be erratic -and long-armed, left-handed drives to the bas­ket. 

Kukoc knows the Bulls' tri­angle offense as well as any­one and how to make it work, and is being counted on by rookie coach Tim Floyd to con­vey his knowledge to a host of new teammates who are still trying to understand it. 
"He's been interesting to watch,"Floyd said Thursday. "From a guy who was silent the lirst week who now seems more pronounced and vocal on the floor, not only with the older guys but with our new­comers." 
Kukoc was known as "The Waiter"during his playing days in Europe for his ability to serve other players wilh clever, no-look pusses. l le still lists Magic .Johnson, perhaps the greatest passer in NBA his­tory, as the onn player he'd like to face one-on-onn. 
"Toni is one of the most skilled µlayers in tlw league. And now he has to stnp up and be a leader,"said new team­mate Brent Barry. 
"He's been them and been through it, and he's going to be a source of' strength for u young team learning and growing. Ile has to step into that role." 
Kukoc, voted the NBA's best sixth man in 1995-96 when the Bulls won an NBA-record 72 regular-season games, never fashioned himself' as anything but a starter. 
When he joined the Bulls, Jordan retired !'or the first 
time and Kukoc was crushed because it appeared his dream of playing with tho world's best was over before it started. 
But Jordan returned and the Bulls went on to three champi­onships. Kukoc took his verbal beatings from Jordan and Jackson. With Floyd, the Bulls may not win as many games, but Kukoc's ears won't be ringing as much, either. 
"lie (Jackson) wanted us to be better, but I can get it out of myself without being yelled at,"Kukoc said during the Bulls' ubbreviated training camp. 
"I had plenty of respect for Phil, but I didn't need the yelling." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at rhe Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, _including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing rdunds. 
SALES & MARKETING  •-••••CRABS••....•  Sarah. thanks for the care package.  
NOTICES  INTERNSHIPS University Directories offers  .____FO_R_RE_N_T_  __.I  L--1_F_O_R_S_A_LE_  __,  For all those who followed with sympathy the story of the death  You rule.  
paid,full-time summer sales and  WALK TO SCHOOL  NEW Rates Phone Cards  and funeral of the crabs, you will be  Spoonball...catch the fever.  
....  Spring Break Bahamas Party Cruise'5Nights $279!Includes  marketing internships.open to all disciplines.College credit avail­ 2-6 BEDROOM STARTING $185 MONTH/PERSON  282 min.$20 call 258-4805  happy to know that their owners have now acquired two new crabs .  Bruinball...catch the flu.  
Meals & Free Parties!Awesome  able.Training program.Great  232-2595  89 Ford Probe GT (made by  These crabs have yet to be named,  
Beaches.Nightlife!  resume booster! 1(800)743-5556 or  Mazda) $1600, call 634 4303.  but several names are under con­ Did you hear that noise?  
Departs From Florida!Cancun &  www.universitydirectories.com  NICE HOMES FOR NEXT  sideration, including "Meg and  
Jamaica $399!  SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND  Need a valentine gift? Awesome  Tom," "Romeo and Juliet," and  It's time for Observer trivia!  Here  
sprmgbreaktravel.com  SPRING BREAK 99!  8,6,4,3,BEDROOM 2773097  hamster cage with bedding and  "Peanut Butter and Jelly."  are your two questions:  
1·800-678-6386  Cancun • Nassau • Jamaica  food for sale.  Call Monica and  A christening ceremony has not yet  1) The college basketball AP poll  
Travel Free and make lots of  '99-'00 LOADED!6 Bedrm. $800  Emily @ 243-1828  been planned.  first appeared fifty years ago this  
Spring Break Panama City  Cash!Top reps are offered on-site  mo. 273-0482/234-3831  week. Can you name the Number 1  
- $129'Boardwalk Room w/Kitchen  staff 1obs.All-lnclusive  TICKETS  In lieu of congratulatory flowers,  team from this poll?  
Next To Clubs!  Deals.Special Discounts up to $100  BED 'N BREAKFAST  donations are still being accepted  2) Going into this weekend's first  
Parties-Free Drinks!  per person. Lowest price  REGISTRY 219-291-7153  at 240 Lyons Hall.  regular season game, who's the  
Daytona $149!  Guaranteed. Call now for details!  BOB  DYLAN  1st . 5 ROWS  leading scorer in the preseason for  
South Beach $129!  www.classtravel.com 800/838-6411  3 BDRM. DUPLEX. REMODELED.  WWF. RINGSIDE  1st.  10 rows  H1 Emily. Hope you're feeling bet­ the Philadelphia 76ers?  
Cocoa Beach $1491  501EDDY ST  272-7233.  ter.  Answers later ...  
springbreaktravel.com  CRUISE SHIP EMPLOYMENT  1 ML FROM CAMPUS.APPLI­ 
1·800-678-6386  Workers earn up to  ANCES, W/D. 273-8332  PERSONAL  Joe Kozminski! I'm sorry I haven't  No. seriously ... did you hear that  
$2,000+/month (w/tips & bene­ come by! It's Just been so crazy.  noise?  
GET THE HECK OUT OF HERE!  tits)World Travel!Land-Tour jobs  5 & 6 BDRM HOMES. 1999/2000 ,  But I saw you in the dining hall last  
Mexico.the Caribbean or Jamaica  up to $5,000-$7,000/summer.Ask  SUMMER OR NOW.NEARCAM­ THIS SATURDAY!!!  night. but you didn't see me. But  Jen Holmes I love you to death and  
$250 r/1.  us how! 517-336·4235 Ext.C55842  PUS.FURN GILLIS PROPER·  Clap your hands. come out and  that's OK because I felt better  I'm sorry that I'm so forgetful. I  
Other worldwide destinations  TIES.2726551  dance with  because "It's not dinner without  hope this makes up for my horrible  
cheap.Book tickets on line  Piano Trumpet Sax Guitar & Bass  ALI BABA'S TAHINI  Joe." -laura  ways  
www airtech.com  Players !or Shenanigans Band-for  HOUSE OR ROOMS AVAIL  and  
(212)219-7000.  3 big shows and optional spring  NOW.272-6551  THE BUTTERFLY EFFECT  Why do only cranky people write  I think Jackie Lynn should go on a  
break tour.  at  letters to Viewpoint?  lecture tour ­what about you T?  
WANTED  Call Meg at 4-2573.  House for Rent.  BENCHWAAMER'S  
Two Blocks from campus. Available  (232 S Michigan St)  Oh yeah, you didn't take us. so  Toner ... toner ... toner ... toner  
SPRING BREAK BEACHES  in June for Summer. August for fall.  10pm. 21+ See you there!  there!  
Volunteers are nbeeded to help  Daytona,Panama  Dishwasher, Washer/Dryer, full  Answers to Observer trivia:  
coach a local girls' lacrosse team,  City,Padre,Miami,Cancun.Jamaica,  basement, large backyard, and off  LaHeist- Brad, I will call you. I promise. (You  1)Saint Louis University  
high-school level. If interested, call  Bahamas.etc. Best  street parking.  MONITORED  Did you know a 2-pt. Line can hide  know who you are. We've been  2)Former SLU point guard Larry  
631-6192.  hotels,prices,parties.  SECURITY SYSTEM INCLUDED!!  2-pt. Text?  playing phone-tag for a while now.)  Hughes  
Practices are Mon., Wed. and  Browse www.icpl.com.  KITCHEN BEING REMODELED  But that wasn't a very nice com­ 
Thurs., 3:30-5:30 p. m. beginning  Reps earn cash,free trips.Call Inter- THIS SPRING!  ment.  I hate writing, al leas! when it's late  No. seriously, that noise ... i!'s com­ 
March 1.  Campus 800-327-6013  CAii 289-4712  -laura  and I haven't done it yet  ing from the trunk.  


-· --------­
Thursday. Fchrnary 4, 1999 The Observer. SPORTS page 17 
¦ NBA 
¦ BOXING 
Court to decide
Lakers look to sign Rodman 
I.US /\Nl;ru,:s 

!>P11nis l(od1na11 and till' l.:d;Prs woul<I ht> a rnarriagP madP in. WPII. Ilollvwood, and tl11• lt'1llll is d(\l111ill:ly i11Ll·n·st­t>d i11 tlw sr•vp11-l.ir11t: rPlmund­inM l"hamp. 
l lO\\'f'V1·r. a ro11plP of pn·ss­inµ; q11..stio11s rr•main. For orn•, doPs l!od111a11 !"Pally want to play l'or l.os t\ngPlt~s·! 1:or a110tl1Pr. whl'll will lw ol'ficinlly ilir,· an agi•nt, or will lw r1•111•p­SPllt hir11sPlr.' 
Th,· Los t\11gdPs Tim,~s rPporlt'd today that l.akPrs ('X('('.lltiVt! Vit'P prPsidtHll. .IPITY 
v\'Pst spokP Tur•sday wilh llodman's nt•w agt·nt, Stnvt~ Uiasman. and was awaiting word from Llw :n-yl'ar-old f11r­wa rel. 
l!odman has playPd 011 liv1\ ol' I Ii I' IiiSt I () N B ,.\ diaIll pi O I\ S, i11d11di11g tlw last lilrPP wit II tlw Chicago Bulls. 
"Wti'\'t! disn1ssncl it. but PVPryorw's pulling thP t·arl lll'l'orl' t.lw lwrsn," WPsl told tlll' l1m1·s. "Wt• don't havt' any id,ia whP(ll('r tlwrP's any intPr­"sl on his part." 
,\rrnrding Lo Llw 111•wspap,ir. Chasma11 plans to discuss tlw situation with llodman, who has said hP would likn to play !'or tlll' Orlando Magic but also has shown int1•rPst in lhP LakPrs. llouston and Miami am also in lPn·stPcl. 
llmv,•v,w. lmtve it to Lim zany Hodrnan to do things diffon•nt.­
lv. Chasman is not a c1\rlif'ilHI ,;1,wnt with lhl' playPrs' union, llll'lllling hi' can't rwgoliate a conlrart for Hoilman. 
llwighl l'vlanlt>y usnd lo rnp­l"l'SPl\l Hildman. but P111lr•d his affiliation with him last WPPk. So l'ro111 a lq\al standpoint. 1!11dman is l"IIIT<·ntly without 
Come Join the Tradition Applications are now being accepted for manager. positions for the 1999-2000 academic school ye,a.r~j;:r• 
You may pick up applications at the Office of Student Activities ·· 315 Lafortune WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 7:10 PM 
RESERVED TICKETS S14 
THURSDAY, fEBRUARY 11, 7:30 PM .30 pu
SENIORS SU 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, • rt1 
All STUDENTS Sil 
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 7:30 PM
Deadline: February 26, lSIR· 7 
num ARE AVAILABLE Al lAflliTIIIE SllllENT f.ENJEI TIIJET 1»-m. MASTEiCARO ANO YISA OiDEIS CALL &]1-8128 
Tyson's fate 
1998-99 SEA5014 
NOTRE DAME FILM, TELEVISION, ANO THEATRE PRESENTS
...........',".·i. 
~-m.,...._ 
0 

rnncly to testify on Tyson's behalf. 
"Any infornncn that. wo'vn been purchased or bribed is off the wall," sairl Saw·Nlo's Ia wynr. Gl11 ll n Cu Ip11 J>fHir. "From the very beginning, my client said he rlidn't want him 
t.o convictnd, he wanted him to bo lwlped," 
Tyson's lawyer, who will ask for probation, ptuns lo call character witnnssns, including onn from a Washington honrn­less shelter where Tyson has been doing volunteer work. Jin will also point out Tyson's goodwill acts while training in Arizona -he visiLPd tPen-age inmates and paid for the funeral of a 2-year•old girl shot l.o death. 
Tyson, who liVfis in BBthesda, Md .. is undergoing thorapy at Georgel.Own Univorsity. 
"I think that his actions speak for themselves. You're seoing a d ifforent Mike," Finkel said. ·This was a minor accident. The two defendants settled with him nnd said they wanted him to get help, and that's what happened. What more could you ask?" 
Thi, prosecution sees things differently. Cansler ca.lied Tyson a "bully" who commit­ted "road rage." The prosecu­tor quoted the November Playboy interview in which Tyson called himself a "hate­ful individual~ and said, "I know I'm going to blow one day." 
"The state need go no fur­ther than the defendant's own statements to arrive al the conclusion that the) is not only volatile, but dangerous," Gansler said. 
Gansler also dHlails Tyson's rcipe conviction in Indiana. seven brushes with the law as a juvenile, as well as the infa­mous tight in which Tyson bit off part of Evander Holyfielcl's ear in June 1997. Tyson sub­sequently had his boxing license revoked for a year before returning to knock out Francois Botha in a comeback bout last month. 
-
r 


an agPnt, union spok1•s111an 011ly advist• him," Wass1•1·111an Dan Wasserman said. said. 
Players can rnprnsP11I tl"·111-Wasscnna11 said them are a sdv1!S and havn 1·m1nsPl or a numlrnr ol' players, such as lawynr prest>nl during talks. Milwaukee's Hay Allen and the Bui llwy cannot havP tlial pPr­recently rntirt!d Buck Williams, son sign or negotiatP 1'11r hiln if who don't have agents and hP is not cPrlifiPd 1ri1h thti rwgotiatc tlwir own contrnr.ls. National Basknllrnll l'la)'PrS Tlw LakPrs can offer Bodman /\ssoci a ti, m. a vnlcra11 millimum slarti11g 
"Tlin player is c11litli•d lo ri•p­salarv or $ l million ul\d1•r Ilw rPsnnt himsPlf', and 111• l"illl 1ww °labor dPal. Hodman has sol'k advicP from a11y1111t' IH· Panwd $18 million in tliP last c-!10ostis. hut tlial p1•1·so11 ,·,111 two s1•asons wilh tlw Bulls. 
• . 
~ 

Associate,! Press 
WASIIINGTON 

Tim two mon Mike Tyson attacked nt a fonder bender . Lhi11k thn former hnavyw1)ight d1,1mp shouldn't go t.o jail. T!Je prosecutor fcols other­wise. 
Tlrn opinion that. <'.otrnLs is tbat of Judgo Stephen Johnson. who on Fridav will dotnrrnin<' Ylhotlwr Ty.son's latest comdrnck is done after just one fight. 
.loh11so11 wil.l senl•inco Lhe l'ighter on two counts or sec­ond-degree assault. prompt­ing a decision in Indiana on wlrntlwr Tyson vio!atPcl his probation for a 1991 rape COilvictioll. 
"II' lw goos to jail horn, it's much, much more likely he'll go to jail there," said Paul Kemp. Tyson's lawyer. 
Johnson must dotormino whether Tyson is "nothing less than a. time bomb buried 
in  our  back  vard"  - as  
argued  by  Montgomery  
County  Sta~e•~  Attorney  

Douglas Ganslor -or a "dif­fcrn nt Miko" who has taken well to therapy and has become a more caring person -as put l'orth by his adviser Shelley Finkel and others. 
On Aug. 31, Tyson kicked one motorist and punched another after a minor threo­c a r accident in the Washington suburb of Gaithersburg, Md. On Dnc. 1, Tyson pleaded no contest ­nwaning he neither protests tlw assault charges nor admits guilt -and could rec<!ivt~ up to 20 years' impris­on nrnnt. 
"Ile acted inappropriately that day," Tyson's wife, Monica, who was driving wlwn tlw accident occurred, told The Washington Post. "But Im nnvnr int1:ntionally struck anvonc." 
The tw~> victims, Abmielec SatH'.ndo and Richard llardi<'k, wnro paid an undisclosod amount to avoid a civil suit shortly bd'ore Tyson's plea. Both will bo pr,~sunt Friday, 
.. 
_____________________________:___ __:c__~::....;___::___________________.:,_____,:____
page 18 The Observer• SPORTS Thursday, February 4, 1999 
¦ WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Saint Mary's falls short against Kalamazoo 
By MOLLY McVOY Spam Wri tcr 
Once again, just when it seemed the Belles might turn the game around, a weak sec­ond half keved a 75-49 loss to the Hornets of Kalamazoo. 
wThey didn't show up," said assistant coach Darcy Nikes of the Belles' second-half per­formance. "Everything we taught them in practice just left their minds." 
The Belles had a six-point lead at on~oint in the first half and appeared to have control in the beginning of the game. 
But it was Kalamazoo that came to play in the second half. shooting .621 from the floor, .909 from the free­throw line and a perfect record from behind the three­point line. 
At one point, the Hornets went on a six-minute scoring spree, taking the game from 41-36 with 12 minutes remaining to 56-36 with 6: 15 left to play. 
But playing with this ener-

GET IN THE 
THICK 
OF IT . 
Conveniencly located in the heart of downtown South Bend, Old Chicago Steakhouse ha.s the hoctesc grill in town, serving up a NEW ME:'-JU of juicy USDA prime filer mignons, t-bones, :ind ribeyes (as well chicken, burgers and salads, too). 
See why steaks are our consuming passion. 
222 S. MICHIGAN• SOUTH BEND (219) 234-5200 
LOOK OUT FOR FLYING T-SHIRTS 
(and other giveaways) 
College Night Thmsdays 
South Bend's Biggest Party 
ggc SPECIALS 
ggc COVER 
WITH STUDENT I.D. 

--~,, '•-~--'• 


,_: ~ee_¼t< 
. l_-:-~ ,·~ , .¼/a /~ /, r1 ~ ' -® cr'/tv/ 
222 S. MICHIGAN 
SOUTH BEND• (219) 234-5200 
www.ace laces.com/heartland 
The Saint Mary's basketball team hopes to rebound from its 75-49 loss to Kalamazoo when it faces Calvin College this Saturday. 

QUICK CAB 
233-6000 
"Ride Safe, Save Money!!!" 

gy, the Hornets erased what Kalamazoo figured out the basket -if' the Belles' first seemed like one of the Belles' Belles' defensive strategy and shot did not drop, that was better first halves of basht­shut down their offense. their only chance. 
ball. Kalamazoo's leading scorer, This inconsistency has Going into the second half, Robin Fullman, helped the actually typified the season Saint Mary's was only behind Hornets outscore Saint Mary's for the young Belles. With by four, and they had the 48-26 in the second period of only five league games left, momentum of the game. play. they need to prove they can "In the first half. the "We knew what we had to play competitively for the full defense was great," said accomplish," said Fullman. 40 minutes and rise above Nikes. "We really played with "In the first half, we didn't their 0-11 league record this 
a lot of confidence and con­exr,cute, but, in the second week. trol." half, we came out to play." The Belles face Calvin 
The full court press the A major factor in that scor­College on Saturday and then Belles instituted in the first ing ability was Kalamazoo's head to Alma and Albion half seemed to stop the rebounding. Saint Mary's was before returning home to face Hornets, but after half-time out-rebounded 35-J 4 at their Defiance. 
!Use Observer Classifieds I 
ALLSTATE INSURANCE COMPANY 
Presentation and Information Session 
Thursday, February 4, 1999 
6:00 -7:30 pm 
Foster Room 
LaFortune Student Center 
All students interested in learning more about the actuarial profession are welcome to attend. 

Interviews -Internship Friday, February 5, 1999 
Check with Career & Placement to schedule an interview time. 
Thursday, February 4, 1998 The Ohmvc:r • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 
-----------------------------"---'=--­
Calendar of Events 
Sophomore Retreat (February 19-20) St. Joe Hall 
February 2-8, 103 Hesburgl1 Library, 112 Badin Hall or see your Hall Rector Applications Available for sign-up 
Senior Transition Retreat 
Friday -Saturday, February 5-6, St. Joe Hall Co-Sponsored By the Center for Social Concerns 
Marriage Preparation Retreat 
Friday -Saturday, February 5-6, Fatima Retreat Center 
ROTC Senior Retreat 
Friday-Saturday, February 5-6, Epworth Forest Retreat Center 
RCIA Retreat 
Saturday, February 6, Moreau Seminary 
Encuentro Chicago Retreat Friday-Sunday, February 5-7, Pilsen (in Chicago) Co-Sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns 
Freshman Team #21 Retreat 
Sunday, February 7, St. Joe Hall 
The Black Presence in the Bible 
"Reading the book of Joshua 
Through the Eyes of the Indigenous People: A Task for the Oppressed People in the 
U.S." -Dr. Randall C. Baily, Andrew C. Mellon Associate Professor of Old Testament and Hebrew Interdenominational Theological Center, Atlanta, GA Wednesday, February 10, 4:30 p.m. 
Hesburgh Library Lounge 
FIFTH SUNDAY IN ORDINARY TIME 
Weekend Presiders at the Baslllca of the Sacred Heart Saturday,February 6 Mass 
5:00 p.m. 
Rev. John E. Conley, C.S.C. 
Sunday, February 7 Mass 
10:00 a.m. Rev. Peter D. Rocca, C.S.C. 
11:45 a.m. 
Rev. James M. Lies, C.S.C. Scripture Readings This Comming Sunday 
1st Reading  Isaiah 58:7~10  
2nd Reading  1 Corinthians 2:1-5  
Gospel  Matthew 5: 13-16  

A Black History Month Celebration Africentric Spirituality: A Two-Part Series Part II -The Recovery of Black Presence in the Bible 
I!agar was Abram's second wife and mother of his first child. She was the first person in Hebrew Scripture to name God. She was an Egyptian, a Black woman. Her scriptural presence and personal theophany is a sacred biography of her relationship with God -a biography which rescues other biographies long submerged in traditional biblical interpretation and teaching. 
The Recovery of Black Presence in the Bible is the second part of our 2­part -series on Africentric Spirituality at the University of Notre Dame. Just as we have revived the history of Black Catholics, we continue Black History Month by recovering the personal histories of our Black biblical ancestors. Whether examining the life of Moses in Exodus or the Ethiopian Eunuch in Acts of the Apostles, resurrecting our stories and reclaiming their virtue is key to recovering the cultural experiences and perspectives of Black people in the Bible. Africentric Spirituality is the sacred intermingling of African and African American cultures and the Christian faith. ~raditionally, people of African descent believe that the spirit of God is present in both the sacred and secular, as life and its unfolding reflect God's intimate and eternal relationship with humanity. For Black people, it is in the storytelling, the sharing, the sacred writings and songs that remind us of the power inherent in God's gift of sacred scripture. Africentric spirituality is the outward expression of this gift. We seek and embrace God's presence through the language, thoughts, insights, and social and religious philosophies revealed in the personali­ties and experiences recounted in the Old and New Testament. Like Haggar, men and women of African descent permeate the pages of the bible. We are challenged to recast and reconstruct their stories and experi­ence God in the power of their personal testimonies. 
On Wednesday, February 10 and Thursday, February 11, Campus Ministry will continue the Black History Month celebration by welcoming renowned scripture scholar Rev. Dr. Randall C. Bailey to South Bend. The Andrew W. Mellon Assistant Professor of Old Testament and Hebrew at the Interdenominational Theological Center in Atlanta, Georgia, Dr. Bailey will present a lecture entitled The Black Presence in the Bible: Reading the Book of Joshua -Through the Eyes of the Indigenous People: The Task for Oppressed People in the U.S. He will encourage us to read the Book of Joshua by examining the story of the liberation/resistance 
struggle of the Canaanites and Gibeonites, the indigenous -people of Canaan at the time of the Israelite occupation. Searching for the voices of the marginalized and dispossessed will expand and challenge our tradi­tional view of Old Testament social history. 
Dr. Bailey will present the lecture twice: once at Notre Dame in the Hesburgh Library Lounge on Wednesday, February 10 at 4:30 p.m., and again on Thursday, February 11 at 7:00 p.m. at Greater St. John Missionary Baptist Church, Rev. Dr. Billy Kirk, pastor. All are invited as we offer this challenging and thought provoking biblical perspective to the entire South Bend community. 
Black History Month at the University of Notre Dame will be the recovery of our sacred memory as we reflect on those who have touched our lives and left a lasting mark on how we see God and the world. From prophet, king, and Messiah to pope, bishop and religious educator, an Africentric cultural consciousness has contributed faithfully to the life and ministry of the Judeo-Christian church. This two part series will take us through a journey which exposes an unwavering conviction of a people who were and continue to be faith manifest. Please join us in our celebration. Chandra J. Johnson Assistant to the President Assistant Director for Cross Cultural Ministry 
l¦I 
..
0MPUS 
MINISTRY 



Special to The Observer 
While most students kept their eyes on the football team during national signing day, it wasn't the only sport in which players were being admitted. Yesterday afternoon. the Notre Dame volleyball team announced the signing of mid­dle blocker Kaitlin McEwen to part of Notre Dame's class of 2003. 
"We're very pleased to have her," head coach Debbie Brown said. "She's not some­one who's that well-known, but we believe she has the potential for tremendous growth." 
McEwen, a native of Dallas, Texas, who moved to Baton Rouge, La .. played her senior season at Bishop Sullivan High School. 
During her time there, she was an all-state selection, dis­trict MVP, a two-time all-tour­

..,. 
nament selection and a com­posite all-state academic team honoree. 
As a team captain, she led Bishop Sullivan to a bi-district championship and an unde­feated district record with 293 kills, 181 blocks, 114 digs and 56 aces on the season. 
"When I took my visit, it was so overwhelming," McEwen said. "l loved the coaching staff and fit in with the team 
Waldrum 
continued from page'28 
Angeles Skyhawks and the Indianapolis Daredevils of the AmPrican Soccer League. 
"I am anxious to meet the team," Waldrum said. ''I've worked with some of them with the under-20 national team so hopefully that will make the transition easier. The people at Notrr-Dame were so profes­sional and down lo earth throughout the whole process. They really gave me a comfort-

Got Sports? Call 1--4543. 
very well. It just seemed like it was the place I wanted to be." 
During her junior volleyball season at Lake Highlands High Schools in Dallas, McEwen averaged 4.4 kills per game and recorded 320 kills, 89 blocks and 194 digs while starring on the basket­ball team. 
"Kaitlin is someone who we believe has a very high top end," Brown said. "She'll be able to learn a lot her fresh­man season with training, patience and hard work." 
Currently, McEwen plays for the New Orleans-based Cajunland volleyball club team after playing for the Lake Highlands Volleyball Club while in Dallas. 
'Tm looking to contribute in anyway I can," McEwen said. "I don't know what my role on the team will be, but I'm sure I'll find it when I arrive there." 
Current members of the l'\otre Dame volleyball team were positive about the deci­sion. 
"We're so happy that she's coming," sophomore middle blocker Jo Jameyson said about the decision. "She's got really big shoes to fill with the departure of senior Lindsey Treadwell, but she'll be able to fill them." 
able feeling." 
Waldrum becomes the third coach of Notre Dame women's soccer which has been in exis­tence since 1988. Petrucelli coached the Irish for nine sea­s on s and was preceded by Dennis Grace, who coached for two. 
Waldrum was not the initial candidate for the vacant posi­tion at Notre Dame. Clive Charles, director of soccer at Portland, rejected thri offer to coach Notre Dame soccer. In addition to his duties at Portland, Charles coaches the 
U.S. National men's team. 
The Observer• SPORTS Thursday, February 4, 1999 
¦ MEN'S SOCCER 

Irish ink strong recruiting class 
Special to The Observer 

The University of Notre Dame men's soccer team signed three outstanding high school players to National Lettrrs of lnt.<~nt today. !lead Coach Mike lierticelli has announced that defender Justin Hatc!Hfe (Miami, Fla.). a member of the Under-18 National Team; goalkeeper Greg Tait (Fayetteville, N.Y.), one of the nation's top high school goalkeeping prospects, and mid­fielder Paul Hodgriguez {San Antonio, Tex.) will be members of Notre Dame Class of 2003. 
"We are extremely excited about having these three players join our program nnxt season," says Bcrticelli, who will be rntcring his 10th season with the Irish in 1999. "This is a very talented group that fills our needs. With some of our gradua­tion losses, we had certain gaps to fill and I think we've done it by signing Justin, Greg and Paul." 
Ratcliffe, a 5-11, 155-lb. defender, has been a three-year starter at American lligh School in Miami. A member of the Lnder-18 National Team, has helped his team to a 22-1-2 record this season. His squad, currently ranked f'irst in the state, has given up just 12 goals all season and recorded 14 shutouts. 
As a junior, Ratcliffe garnered first-team all-state and all-city honors. American finished the 1998 campaign (played in the spring) with a 31-1 mark; its lone loss of the season was in the state semifinals. A year ago his team was ranked number one nationally and in the state. 
He has played for the Miami Strike Force Club team since the age or 12 and has helped the squad to the national semifinals on numerous occasions. 
"The addition or Justin is going to help us out defensively in a number of ways," Berticelli says. "He is an extremely versatile player who is both sound techni­cally and tactically. 
".Justin can play anywhere in the backfield and brings a great deal of maturity to our program because of' the experiences he has had with the National Team both here in the United States and abroad." 
With the loss of four-year starter Grng Velho, Tait will have the opportunity to chal­lenge for the starting job in goal immediately. A two-yoar starter at Christian Brothers Academy in Syracuso, N.Y., tho 6-3, 180-lb goalkecpPr, was MVP of his team this season after leading them to a 21-1-1 mark and rng­istering 150 saves. llis squad won thr-sectional championship in 1998 before losing in the regional tournament. CB/\ was ranked among the top six teams in the state throughout the sea­son. 
A two-time all-state and all­Central New York region selec­tion, Tait played on the varsity for five years, and in a four-year span, helped his team compile a 106-4-4 record. 
A member of the Syracuse Blitz Club team since 1989, he helped that squad to a runner­up finish at the 1998 Indoor National Tournament. Tait also has considerable experience with the Olympic Developmental Program and has been the start­ing goalkeeper on tho East Regional team since 1996. He has earned national team try­outs on two occasions. In 1998, Tait led his team to a lirst-place finish at the Tourni Int'! Cadets de Hauts-de-Seine in Paris France. 

"Greg has tremendous potrm­tial and is an extremely talented player. I consider him one of the top three senior high school goalkeepers in the country," Berticelli says. In the long tradi­tion or having four-year starters in goal, he has the ability and potential to challenge for that spot immediately. Greg's grcat­ost assets are his quickness and tremendous work ethic." 
Like Ratcliffe and Tait, Hodriguez fills specific needs for the Irish in the midfield. A three­year starter at Winston Churchill lligh School, the 5-9, 16Cl-lb midfielder loci his team to the 1998 Tr,xas state championship. I lis squad currently is 7-2-1 on tho season and he has six goals and live assists. Hodrigtwz was named MVP of the North Loop Tournament. 
As a junior, he was a first­triam all-region, all-city and all­district selection and earned all­tournament honors at the '98 state championship. Rodriguez Incl Winston Churchill in scoring in both his junior and sopho­morn s1!asons. Ile had 18 goals and dished 12 assists en route to naming San Antonio Express Player of the Year honors. 
Rodriguez has played for the llammers Soccer Club tnam for two years and been part of tlrn state ODP team for three years. 
"l consider Paul a real sloeper in this year's recruiting class," Berticelli says. "lie was highly recruited an immediatn impact player by a number of lop schools, and we feel very f'ortu­n ate that he chose to attr.nd Notre Dame. Paul is a technical­ly rofined player with grnat vision on the fiPld and exccllnnt passing skills. lie handles him­self well under prnssure, and we expect him to contribute in Urn midfield for us right away." 

WSND Nocturne Nightflight 
88.9 FM is 91v1ng away a Ninteno 64 
gaming system with new memory pack and the new Rogue Squadron game next Saturday, Feb. 13. 
'VY
\'.I.I

flo0frc9w ci.JDO 


~ @] llii:) ac2)[r 


Thursday, February 4, 1999 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Page 21 


student union 
HAPPENINii§ 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 
Movie: Enemy of the State. 2/4. Thursday. Cushing Auditorium. 1030PM. llckets: $2. 2/5. Friday. Cushing Auditorium. 0800PM & 1030PM. 2/6. Saturday. Cushing Auditorium. 0800PM & 1030PM. 
Acoustlcafe. 2/4. Thursday. LaFortune Huddle. 0900PM-1200AM. 
ffPC (HALL PRESIDENT§' COUNCIL} 
Formals. 2/5. Friday. DIiion/Weish. 2/6. Saturday. Howard. 2/6. Saturday. Lewis. 
SYRs. 2/5. Friday. Breen-Phllllps "Beach Party". 2/6. Saturday. Keough "White Wedding". 2/6. Saturday. Zahm Decade Dance. 
Keenan/PE Retreat 2/5-2/6. Friday-Saturday. 
Knott Hall Basketball Tournament. 2/7. Sunday. 
PW Carnation Sale. 2/8-2/10. Monday-Wednesday. 
CCC (CLUB COORDINATION COUNCIL] 
Pre-Physical Therapy  Club  Meeting.  
2/4.  Thursday.  117 Hagar.  0700PM.  
CLAS§ DF 1999  
Chuck  E. Cheese.  
2/4.  Thursday.  822 W.  McKinley.  0800PM.  99  cents for pizza,  game  tokens,  
and  much  more.  
99  Days  to Graduation Class  Dinner.  
2/5.  Friday.  Alumni-Senior Club.  0430PM-0630PM.  Must be  21!  
CLASS DF i!!DDI  

Swing Dance (co-sponsored by the Class of 2002). 2/6. Saturday. Alumni-Senior Club. 1 000PM-0200AM. karyoke, food, DJ. 
STUDENT liDI/ERNMENT 
Saferlde. 631-9888. 2/4. Thursday. Where the Action Is. 1000PM-0200AM. 2/5. Friday. Where the Action Is. 1000PM-0300AM. 2/6. Saturday. Where the Action Is. 1000PM-0300AM. 
Judicial Council: Election Debates. 2/7. Sunday. LaFortune Ballroom. 0700PM. 
-

ND Writing Center: "Read to Write: How to Become a Better Writer Through Critical Thinking." 2/10. Wednesday. 119 O'Shaughnessy. 0700PM-0900PM. 
Ml§CELLANEDU§/CAMPUS-WIDE 
Kellogg Institute Speaker Scott Mainwaring: "Democratic Survlvablllty In Latin America." 2/4. Thursday. C-103 Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 0415PM. 
Department of Music: Ethan Halmo, piano. 2/7. Sunday. Hesburgh Library Faculty Lounge. 0200PM. 

.•. ~ 

. 

Can be used with invisible tape as tattoos. [Submissions for next week's tattoos can be sent via campus mail to SUB, 201 Lafortune! 
34567890123456789012345678901234567890123456789012345678901234567 
page 22 
==:.:.:,:,ii<··
¦ IRISH INSIGHT 
:~~~:lit\ 

McGraw lea~ds 
Iris•h to national success 


By ANTHONYBlANCO Assistant Sp,•rts Editor 
Through most of Notre Dame's record-breaking sea­son, it ha.s been the players who have garnflared all the accolades, 
But as the Irish entered the •. week ranked sixth in the nation by the Associated Press, it was time for Coach Muffet McGraw to get a glimpse of the limelight. 
After mentoring the Irish to their best~ever St-iHi, an 18-2 record that has•·t)i(Lteam anticipating theBig'Easttour­nament and a run at the national title, McGraw was named a finalist for the Naismith Women's Basketball Coach of the Year award ear­lier this week. 
Like any great1ea~er, she reflected the spodigbt right back onto her team, . 
"I think it says a•fot for our team," said McGraw. "!think it's because of them th.at I get any attention af Ttiefre the ones doing. e,work out tlleretso re~ because they're 
well.tt · The Irish have been playing better than wellin recent weeks, coming back from two early-season losses in the Big East to Connecticut and 
Boston Collegeto build a 
nine-game co:fifei'lilfi'C¢Win•· streak, givingtltelij athird place slot in the standings..· 
McGraw started her 12th sea­
son as head coach with wins over UClA and Dttke, both las\pigl1t's.w.ip oy~r.No,: ..20 • Boston CoHego. McGraw has led/he.rteam to 4-1 rec.otd this sea.son over ranked oppo­nents. 

MeGraw has guided.Notre• .l)arµe to three~straig!it .NCAA toµ.rnament app~?'r4nc.¢s and t'ivehoyeraJl,_;, the on'fy.lfiish· coach to lead a tei:Jm tot.he toui:nament. In 1997, thr; Irish capped a miracle season with, a trip to the Final Four as Notre Dame claimed the 
Eiist Regional champii Qll,!ihip; Last s.eason., • 
..· 
§qt],4d ijni&hectwt~n.. 
markand advAnc()d Sweet 16. 
. YetMcGrawis leading a tearn she belif\ves will sur~ pass all of the above. 
''lfook at this t~a~. a.nd 

' toour (1991 •inal 
tUtii }w. 
, ethit·,.. 'll 

tha.t we cari 1)¢ ~~1f? '' better than we ar~ right'·• 
J).OW,/' •Ji'.k\il 
G~,tting better,,i:comtt1~JJted
;takes · · 

McGraw representsthe BigEM(along with Geng ···. · 
INTERNATIONAL WORKING OPPORTUNITY 

The Observer• SPORTS 
Irish 
continued from page 28 

last time, so I just wanted to come out there today and step up my intrnsity and leadership. and be more of an all-around player Nshouting more, dishing more and playing good defense." 
The Irish defense was there once again for McGraw. enabling her team to build a 35-25 half-t.imc lead. 
'Tm proud of the effort of our whole team tonight," said McGraw, whose team has now won nine straight. "I thought our defense was outstanding and we rebounded better." 
Notre Dame forced 20 turnovers and out-rebounded the Eagles 46-27. Hiley was held to just two points in the first half, but made her pres­ence known in the middle, as she finished with a team-high 18 points and helped the Trish build a 16-point lead, their biggest of the game, with five minutes gone by in the second half. 
Hoston College quickly cut into that lead, drawing to with­in four, but the Irish continued to get second-and third-chance opportunities and worked the ball to Riley. 
"We got that big run going and let them right back in with poor defense," McGraw said. "We were fortunate that they never tied the game after we squandered that big lead, That was key and then we went into Huth and when we started doing that, I think we were most successful." 
"Hiley came out ready to go in the second half," Boston College head coach Phyllis Mangina said, "I think the big thing was that we gave up too many second shots. When we played them earlier this year, we allowed just eight offensive 
rebounds, but today they had 
20. I think that was the biggest difference." McGraw saw a difference in her players' attitudes. 
"On our side, the intensity was much different," McGraw said, "1 don't think we were ever in the game at B.C. They got ahead 5-2 and it was over, We were back on our heels for the rest of the game. This game, we came out with a lot of intensity, more fire N maybe even too much because we tired at in the second half. I thought the defense, our inten­sity and rebounding were three things I thought we could con­trol and did control." 
Alissa Murphy was the lone bright spot for B.C. The guard finished with a game-high 20 points. 

Thursday, February 4, 1999 
"Sho came out roally well and I thought she would have a big night and she didn't surprise me," McGraw said. "We made some mistakes in that we fouled her a lot. She took some off-balance shots, but I think we let her off the hook by foul­ing her." 
Danielle Green had a double­double (14 points, 11 rebounds) and McMillen added 13 points. 
"They've got too much bal­ance," Mangina said, "They've got kids that can drive from the outside. McMillen's a threat from the three-point line and they have the big one inside, Even though they had a bad shooting night, had too many weapons. We couldn't just set everyone on Hiley. We had to be honest with all their play­ers." 
Dancing Through the Decades!! 

Alumni-Senior Club Saturday, February 6, 1999 10 a.m. -2 p.m. 
Free Drinks, Wings 
and More!! 
Everybody is welcomer! 


Brought to you by the Student Activities Office, Class of 2001, and Class of 2002. 
-
Feb.6  Seton Hall  
Feb. 10  @Villanova  
Feb. 13  @Rutgers  
Feb. 17  Syracuse  
Feb.20  @ W. Virginia  
Feb. 23  Miami  

Note: Admissionfree with a student ID. 
I 
2p.m. 
7:30 p.m. 2p.m. 7 p.m. 2p.m. 7 p.m. 

-
Thursday, February 4, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 23 
¦ CLUB SPORTS 
Women's boxing club takes off on campus 

By KERRY SMITH Sports Writer 
111 its si;co1HI ynar as u rluh sport, tho Nofn~ Danrn Wnnrnn's Boxing Cluh has gairwrl as much allP11lim1 as it has participa­tion. 
Orw-hundrPd sixty wonwn joined tlw dub in il-. novin~ season last fall, whiln 60 mnm­il<H"s arn 1·urre11Lly participating in the spring vntPran program. 
"Wn gnt a hugn amount of women in thP uovic11 program lwcausc of the novelty uf tlw sport," said s1rnior co-captain and club founder !\imn,, Catrow. "Tim women come Lo !ind 0111 what boxing's 
11.II about" 
and more advanuid lnchnique. 
Club membms do not compete in tourna­ments, but do spar with Rach other in the ring. 
"The point of sparring is to learn how to box and display our skills, not just bnat each other up," said sophomore cu-captain M,•ghan Mccurdy. "It's very controlled." 
Tim captains stress that boxing is a com­pl ic:atPd and skillful sport. 
"There's a misconception about boxing, " said Crawford. "!l's not what you sen on tnlcvision. ft's just as much a mental chal­lcmgc as ;i physical one." 
This season, thu dub plans to organizn the 
sparring matches dif­
ferently than in past 

Tlw novicn program is  'THERE'S A MISCONCEP­ seasons.  
coached by LIH' l'ivn cap­tains of llw squad and lcaclms IH'Wt'.omnrs to the  TION ABOUT BOXING, IT'S NOT WHAT YOU SEE ON  "In order lo have morn matches, wn have gone to a bracket sys­ 
sport tlw fundam,mtals of  TELEVISION. IT'S JUST AS  tem,  not according to  
boxing, whiln providing intm1sn strnngth and con­ MUCH A MENTAL CHALLENGE  weight, but according to skill," said Catrow.  
ditioning training.  AS A PHYSICAL ONE.'  "It will help on an orga­ 
"Most  of  t hn  worn<•n  nizational lev<:I  so that  
ronw  in  rwvnr  having  the women can spar  
fought a day in their lifo,"  BIUITANY CRAWFORD  with  all  the  women  
junior ro-captain Brittany  WOMEN'S BOXING CLUB CO-CAPTAIN  with thdr same skill."  

Crawford said. "They're rn~sh and rww so we teach thnm from the ground up." 
Tlw four-to livn-week session in the fall focusns on mastl'ring of basic boxing tech­niqtws, such as Stancil and footwork, as well as individual and combination punches. 
Tlrnsn 1,~sso11s ari~ couplnd with a daily worko11t roulirw that typically l'onsists of a thnm-rnil1• nm. 200 push-ups. and as many as 800 crunclrns. 
"Our goal for th1i novice snason is to get ev1iryo111• up to spmid with tlw basics," said s1•nior t·o-rnptain CarriP Flanagan, "Wn try lo s1wnd rnorP Linw with the tmginners to i111:rPas11 tlw individual skill levHI of the wom,•n and incrnas11 tlw strength of the pro­gram as a wholn." 
Thn vntPran snason brings togntlrnr womPn who havn complntPd the novice pro­).(rarn in 1111• fall and exp1!ri1:nced boxers l'rnm past st•asons and focusns on sparring 
Dedication and a commitment to hard work deiinn the atti­tudn of' tlrn mcmbors of the Women's Boxing Club. With no tournaments in which to com­pctn, participants often receive littln rocog­nition for their accomplishments. 
"That these women pour out swnat and tears everyday at practice shows their love for the sport," said Catrow. "The dub has gone beyond all of my flXpcctations." 
The generosity of others has lrnlpcd the club grow tr!'m!'nclously. UniVf~rsity regula­tions requirn a coach to be present during all sparring bouts. 
Volunteer coaches from the Men's Boxing Club regularly att1:nd practices and provide further instruction and supervision of the stand up amateur lighting. !\n anonymous donation of (i() pairs of boxing gloves last week will also benefit the club as it sneks to attract even morn participation in thn com­ing seasons. 
Please Recycle The Observer.

Williamsburg 
~ l. ..
·~1r15e.· 

0 

~~ o el · 
A Different Twist on The Big 10 
IO Big Reasons to move to Williamsburg on the Lake 
10. Free cookies in the office. 
9. We will feed you 6 times a year at our resident parties. 
8. Say goodbye to cramped dorm rooms and enjoy our spacious floorplans. 
7. Campus is close in case you sleep in. 
6. You can have pet here other than a chia pet. 
5. Season tickets to the swimming pool. 
4. When you live at Williamsburg, you'll retain your independent status. 
3. Convenience to local shopping areas when you need a break from the books. 
2. More time for the important stuff -maintenance free living. 
1. Extra spending money because we pay the gas/ heat. 
If it's peace and quiet you're looking for, you'll find it at Williamsburg on the Lake!!! 
Williamsburg On the Lake 302 Village Dr. Mishawaka, Indiana 46545 @ 
EOUAl NOOSIMii 
OPPORn.lNITY

Phone# 256-0237 

Notre Dame Department of Music Presents 
Ethan Haimo, piano 
Faculty Artist 

,.
"How to Listen to 12-tone Music" 
an Interactive Recital/ Lecture 
2:00 p.m., Sunday, February 7, 1999 
Hesburgh library Faculty Lounge The concert is free and open to the public. 
Please coll (219) 631-6201 for more information. 
LEARN ABOUT LAW SCHOOL 
Loyola University Chicago School of Law 
will be at Haggar Parlor of St. Mary's on 
February 8, 1999 

11 :30 AM -12:30 PM 
Pamela Bloomquist, Director of Law Admission/Financial Aid, will present topics included in presentation: 
O'Toole Scholarship for St. Mary's Students Financial aid planning for law school The admission process-an insider's view 
Contact: Dr. Sean Savage at St. Mary's for further information 


/

s 

f 20
.. O THE 

page 24 Thursday, February 4, 1999
BSERVER 

-
CEDRIC 

"He's an anchor at the defensive tackle... He's got j 
HILLIARD extremely qu!ck feet, qu1~k I hands and Fies an anchor rn : the middle...He's great! Defensive Line against che run and also has l die explosiveness to put a lot J of pressur~ on the quarter-j6-3, 295 back. I thmk he could be a ! great one." i -Recruiting Analyst Tom Lemming l 
ONETOWKfCH 
Arlington, Texas l 
Notes: A USA Today first-team All-America defen-i: sive lineman. Hilliard had 72 tackles in '98, includ-!I ing 11 for losses. He also caused five fumbles and Ii blocked two kicks while helping the Lamar high Ii school football team to a 9-2 rncord. He was ranked [! the 21st best prospect in the country by Tomi! 
Lemming. 

SEAN MILLIGAN 
Offensive Line 
6-4, 285 
Norcross, Georgia 
"He's probably one of 
the toughest, most aggres­
sive, hard-nosed, lineman 
,. I've seen in the country 
; th_isJear. He'l_l probably 
wm up playmg guard, but he has a take no prisoners attttude... He's one of the top five or six linemen in the country." 
-Recruiting Analyst Tom Lemming Notes: A great run blocker, Milligan was named to USA Today's All-American second team as an offen­sive lineman. He was recently rated the 86th best prospect by ESPN.com and 40th nationally by the Chicago Sun-Times. He was also named one of the 50 top prospects and one of six offensive linemen in Georgia by the Atlanta Journal Constitution. 
DARRELL CAMPBELL 
Defensive Line 
6-4 245 ·.@ 

' ·':=$-.. 
South Holland, Illinois 
"He may have the highesJ of all the defen­sive linemen in theMidwe ear ... I thought he was the f: isi,gplayer in Chicago ... They're ecstati' 'inj(~ ·· Mattison and all the people who saw 1m,tho 
was one if the 
best in the countr•~~;Jh ......, Ritni" · alyst Tom Lemming 
Notes: A USA Today honSiable jnention prep all­American pick who the Chicago Sun-Times ranked 82nd. He was first-team all-state pick in Illinois by the Chicago Tribune. A versatile player, Campbell played defensive end as a sophomore, linebacker as a junior and nose guard as asenior, He made 67 solo tackles as senior in '98,' a.long 'wjth 13 tackles for loss and four sacks. il\. 
JULIUS JONES 
Running Back 
171, 6-0 

Big Stone Gap, Virginia 
"He's more of the thorough pe back. He's got good si_ze, goo4 ~peed and ,goo;d moves. He's got everythmg. Peop ... •. ... hc's/b~t;t,C than his brother 
Tom Jones who's a stat baci5. at ,; . · ia." 
i,R~, ._nalyst Tom Lemming 
. '/, .,c, 
Notes: A honorable me.~ti~ usif' Today prep All­American. Jones helped the Powell Valley High School football team to 28 straight\victories and two state title in '97 and '98. For his career, Jones had 5,788 yards rushing with 95 TDs. His senior year, he had 2,244 yards and 37 TDs. Julius' brother, 1 Tom was the University of Virginia;sJeading rusher l this season. ·· ! 

""'----j 
...., .........., ........ ,,,...., ••~~---•P•••NNnu,,.. ,_..., .., ....._ ... .,,_.,,,.,,.-......... ••• __ 
NEILAMBRON 
Offensive Line 
6-7, 275 
Littleton, Colorado 

"Another very athletic offensive lineman. He can play both w ffense;:ftl<¼defc::nse ... He's got a frame to ge vp(fliqdt·He may be the fastest of the bunc _ , . IJ!iin a high ceiling 
in his 

Notes: He is described as one oftthe stronger and tougher recruits. At Littleton High ~hool, he played 
both on both the offensive and  fensive lines.  
Ambron earned USA Today honor  mention all- 
American selection.  The Chicago  -Times listed  
him as the 86th best player.  K  

GLEN EARL 
Defensive Back 
6-1, 195 
Naperville, lllinoi$' 
Ji . 
,;i,,ifr .···•·· 

"He was anotHersuYw of nowhere in Chicago .. : · in the world and not the tgte a
"~i{ ,jr 


stTom Lemming 
Notes: A USA Today honolble Jlention pick, Earl played wide receive.r and defensive back at 
Naperville North High School and has good cover skills and size for a cornerback. In addition to being named 1st Team All-State and DuPa, e Valley's top j
defensive player, he made 58 t  ·  les and four  
interceptions while leading his  to  a  10-3  
record.  

,.._____________________j 
JIM MO LINARO  
·,i,'.'SC  
Defensive Line  
6-6, 245  
Bethlehem, Pennsylvania  I ,  
"I think he can possibly wind"f:i eing an offensive lineman. Hfstlll11 athleti good feet. He's· .. got a frame -,. e cipl>ut 0 .ll more weight· · ·  j ! I ,.II  
He probably n  ,,  ds.lti°il¼~pfwork his way up  '  I  

in a couple ofyears b'ur.Ji,s a ~,~\¾Y with athletic ! j 
Notes 

Poss;bJy th~~~:;:!:":! I 
Pennsylvani~. Molinaro had 29 assists. onP and a j half sacks, 51X forced passes and three batted pass-, es this season while helping his ..team to a 7-4 I I record. As a junior, he had 46 tackles, six of them ! 1 
solo, to go along with two an·.··d· a .h.al_f'. sacks and 14 : I spoed; he returned two punts for t 
forced passes while being named · e East Penn l I season and can run the 40-yard-d 
Conference outstanding offnj{Ye r . n~ I Londs. ' 
ii 
H 
:; 
:; 


JEFF FAINE 
Offensive Line 
6-3, 310 
Saint Mary, Rorida 
"Faine is the cop cemer in the country-a hard work­ing guy ... He's explosive, technically sound and especially real strong. He's got all the tools to be rhe 

center in a couple years." 
-Recrmting Analyst Tom Lemming 

Notes: A USA Today first-team prep All-American. Ambron was one of the first offensive linemen from Florida to be offered a scholarship to Nebraska; He had 77 pancakc blocks as a senior while being named to the Super Southern 100 team by the Atlanta Journal Constitution. A powerful lineman, namPd 69th best prospect by the Sporting News. 
JASON BECKSTROM 
Defensive Back 
5-10, 185 
Jenks, Oklahoma 
"I think he's got great potential as a cornerback. He's an extrem~1t .~uick guy, anticipates well and shows good r,angi:F~~q he /~"n i::.physical when he 
wants ... Hes got outstanclmg;J-!ls and could be a big addition to the corne~~c~:.P ·on." _; Rl~ruit nalyst Tom Lemming
74 
;:,;;,{· 

Notes: He is a quick player who helped Jenks High School team to its third straight Oklahoma Class 6a title and seventh straight district title. His high school defensive unit didn't permit more than nine total yards in a game over thelast four regu­lar-season contest. ·•· 
JOEY HILDBOLD 
Kicker/Punter 
5-10, 170 
Fairfax, Virginia 
"He's a good, 


Notes: Hildbold is the p bable choice to take over as punter following Hunt r Smith's depar­ture. He averaged 39.7 yards per punt in '98, while earning Virginia first-team all-state honors. For the season, opponents only gained 22 yards in punt returns against him, while 21 of his 37 kickoffs were for touchbacks. · 
ALBERT POREE 
Defensive Back 
5-10, 185 
New Orleans, Louisiana 


"He's the top coc.perbaCk prospecr in Louisiana. He's not a very.physid[ od1ggressive kid bur he's excellent at one.:~1,n.~fiine pJs;s · tions and that's 
what Not,c Dam,,,..,:~:~:...­
Notes: Poree should mak; an irhpact at the cor­nerback position for the Irish. As a. senior, he made ?8 tackle~ while intercepting five passes and forc­ing four lumbles. The most obvious talent is his
-



Ss. 
'' ...." 


F
O 
THE BSERVER page 25 

BRENNAN CURTfN 
Offensive Line 
6-7, 295 

Palm Springs, Florida "He's a player that has potential. He definitely has the size and the athlet­ic ability. He'll go as far as his will and desire will take him." -Recruiting Analyst Tom lemming 
Nows: A USA Today honorable mention prop all­Anwriran pick. lie was 01111 ol' 10 offcmsivc linemen on /\tlanla Journal Constitution Super Southern 100 LNllll. lie was a four year starter in a wing-T 01fm1sf' who started taf'kle as a freshman sopho­more and at guard his last two seasons. lie is a lnnarious !Jlock1n-who runs l'asl l'or his size. 

PAT RYAN 
Linebacker 6-3, 215 Billings, Montana 

"I didn't know much about him until December bur what I've seen on him, he makes almost every play on rhe field. He's very aggressive, quicker than he looks ... He's one of the sleepers in this class. I 
think he's gonna be an outstanding player." -Recruiting Analyst Tom Lemming 
N(llPs: Hyan is an unlrnraldPd recruit who domi­nated tlw u1mpPtition in Montana. A three-time AII-Staw selection and (;atoradc Montana Player of tllf' Year, lw had 194 tackles in '98 while hnlping his Lnam lo a I 0-1 record and its second straight slal,~ title. Another versatile player, he also played tight 1)1HI and quarterback during his earner at Billings w,~st lligh Sclwol. 
NICK SETTA Kicker 
6-0, 160 
Lockport, Illinois 

"He's probably got the strongest leg in the country as a place kicker ... Setta can kick them out from anywhere, from any part of the field it seems like ... like most kickers at this .ige, he needs to work on accuracy and if he does that, he could be their 
hest kicker since Craig Hentrich." -Recruiting Analyst Tom Lemming 
Nolt!S: Another lirn• catch f'or Davin and his staff, SPtta Par1wd All-America nods from Parade and USA Today. As a sPnior he punlt•d 3lJ times for a 47.8-yarcl avr!rnge for l.ockporl Town~hip High Srhool. along with 29 of :n l'ATs. In his sophomore yPar. wlwn lw kicked a 59-yard field goal, which is still an Jllinois state rncord. 
COURTNEY WATSON 
Running back 
6-2, 205 Sarasota, Florida 

"A workmanlike back. He doesn't have great speed or great moves buc he's stronger than most people rhink he is ..• He always.seems to ger the yards needed. He's very shifty, has great vision and great leg strength and he can break tackles." 
-Rectuiting Analyst Tom Lemming 
Notns: Watson earned all-Sarasota honors at Hiv1•rview lligh School aft1)r rushing for nearly I,:mo yards and 15 TDs as a srnior. lln playrd wide rP<'PivPr l'rnshman and sophomorn ynar before switching to running back as a junior and senior, along witl! the kickoff und punt return teams. Over th1• 1>11st two sm1son. Watson has rushrd for just over 2,400 yards. 
RYAN GILLIS 
Offensive line 
6-3, 315 
Bowie, Maryland 
"He's very technically 
sound ... He's probably 
further ahead of the other 
guys at chis stage. He 
. needs to watch h1s weight 
but if he does, ifhe keeps 
his weight under conrroL he can really be an out­
standing guard." 
-llecruiting Analyst Tom Lemming 
Noles; Gillis helped lead Dematha Catholic High School to a 12-0 rncord. In the process, Im earned Parade prep-All-American honors and a USA Today honorable menlion. Gillis extends a herilage of Irish players from Dematha, including current light end John Owens. 
GEROME SAPP 
Defensive Back 
6-0, 210 
Houston, Texas 
"The premier free safety in the country. This guy's 
got terrific range, he's got a presence about him 
which makes the ocher pii}yers around him play bet­
ter. He's a leader o~'ilie fi~'di l:!/s a hitter and he 
can generally stay with th/faste~.t'receivers. He's got 
all the skills to be an NFL DB in·four years." 
-Recruiting Analyst Tom Lemming Notes: Sapp is considered'.by many to be the best free safety in the country. Hated sixth nationally by ESPN.com and the Sporting News, he had 122 tack­les as a senior, to go along with five picks and two inlerceptiqn returns for touchdowns. Before being named lo the USA Super 25 preseason team for '98, he made 101 tackles and intercepted five passes as a junior. 
JAMMR TAYLOR 
Wide Receiver 6-0, 200 Mission, Texas 
"They got che one guy they needed. Jamaar Taylor can spread a defense, which i~ what they really need­ed ... Afrer he catches the ball, he can run away from defenders. He shows good separation speed and has gqgdhands." 
.:::.; Recruiting Analyst Tom Lemming 
Notes: Taylor is widely considered to be ono of the nation's firrnst receivers. Ile runs a 4.3 40-yard dash and was rated the 45th best recruit in the nation by tlrn Chicago Sun-Times; He played running back as a senior with 1003 yards rushing and 35 receptions for over 500 yards. In his sophomore and junior years, he averaged 20 yards a catch. 

'.r"""'".'"'"';,w,,~;i,:iil'/'i.'~P'fiii,ii~:'/8,'iti,7J"lffl~·'·"""··,,"""'"····"".'·"···'""""···"""'······"··'"·····"'·"'"···""'"•.~iif'"""•-'A'::""'""'"'"'"·,:,ii•1",,,~···""'···"""".······'"····'········'·"··"········ ......,....,;,m=,,.r:--""":"f"..;.;=,s"" I 
1; ,. . POSITION BY POSITION BREAKDOWN . 
:  •  -•••••~L-~''"".. '  
j:  RUNNING BACKS  
'  JULIUS JONES  .  
COURTNEY WATSON  
CHRIS YURA  


LINEBACKERS PAT RYAN JUSTIN THOMAS 

NOTRE DAME WELCOMES THE NO. 2 RECRUITING CLASS IN THE NATION. 
,, ........ .,.,.,..,,.urn"._,~.µ_'"".•• •••an,.~•••, "L•~,,. ,,, , , ••••'," ,.,.~.,~•• "'"• ,..,,..,,. '",, ......... ,,.,. "'"-H 
DEFENSIVE LINE DEFENSIVE BACKS DARRELL CAMPBELL JASON BECKSTROM CEDRIC HILLIARD GLENN EARL 
JIM MOLINARO ALBERT POREE I 
..

GEROME SAPP 
I 

OFFENSIVE LINE NEALAMBR0N BRENNAN CURTIN JEFF FAINE RYAN GILUS SEAN Ml LL IGAN 

WIDE RECElVERS & TIGHT ENDS  KICKERS & PUNTERS  
GARY GODSEY  f0EY HILDB0LD  
)AMAAR TAYLOR  NICK SETTA  


GARY GODSEY 
light End 
6-7, 255 
Tampa, Florida 

'Tm thinking he might he a better detensive end than tight end. He's an explosive ballplayer and a great athlete. 1 think if he stays healthy and 
improves, he'll be in the NFL someday." 
-Recruiting Analyst Tom Lemming 
Notes: Godsey is a truly versatile player, having played tight end, quarterback, center, defensive end and long snapper in high school. During his senior year at quarterback, he threw for over 1,800 yards with 22 TDs. Ile was named a USA Today All­American honorable mention, and rated the 55th best prospect by Sporting News. 

CHRIS YURA 
Running Back/Defensive Back 
5-11, 195 

Morgantown, West Virginia 
"He's a good ballplayer. I know he's broken a lot of records in West Virginia...I think he can play well at running back or free safety and I think 
he'll be one of the surprise elayers." 
-Recruiting Analyst Tom Lemming 
Notes: A West Virginia Player of the Year. Yura earned a USA Today honorable mention nod while rushing for 38 TDs and 2548 yards on 277 carries as a senior. For his career, he finished with 103 touchdowns, shattering the previous state record of 92 scores. 
JUSTIN THOMAS 
Linebacker 6-2, 230 Spencer, Oklahoma 
"I liked him when I saw him. I thought he was another tough, aggressive linebacker. He could pos­sibly grow into a defensive lineman. He's active, he's hardly ever off his feet and he's instinctive ...I think he's a good catch also." 
-Recruiting Analyst Tom lemming 
Notrs: The 1998 Defensive player of' the year in Oklahoma, Thomas was named a US/\ Today All­/\merican honorable mention after a 145 tackle. thrre-fumble-rccovery senior year. As a fullback on offonse, Thomas rushed for 341 yards, scor:ed. 14 touchdowns in '98. lie was one of 17 players on tlw '98 Blue Chip Lise by The Oklahoman. 
-

.____...., [U'lll•..... ,,;, ::;~t.f~,,§ ;;;/ ·,.;l.· ~.~1.a o·J'~,tl,!~"!tl,1fffg?f¥1Jr:';.;J}'tltl·~"-·; ,ri'X,'~l~,;E,,,;~,:i1{,..,•.,,.:~,.:··,.~¥.":..·,......",......,.,. 

Safety new jewel in 
1999 Top Freshman Recruits* 
recruiting crown 
1. 
QB Chris Simms 6-5/215 Texas 

2. 
RB Nick Maddox 6-0/195 Florida St. 


By TIM CASEY team. He will step into the Sports \v' ritcr secondary to compete with 
3. LB Cory Redding 6-5/240 Texas 
Deke Cooper, Deveron 
4. WR Reggie Brown 6-2/180 Georgia 
At this time every year, the Harper, Brock Williams and 
5. LB T.J. Duckett 6-3/240 Mich. St. 
recruiting gurus select a few possibly A'Jani Sanders and players who they believe are Tony Driver. Although he's 
6. QB Chris Massey 6-1/198 Oklahoma St. 
can't-miss prospects and who inexperienced, he should 
7. QB Anquan Boldin 6-1/l 95 Florida St.
arc destined for greatness at provide, at the very least, the college level. good rompctition f'or his fnl­
8. TE Bo Scaife 6-4/220 Texas
While this labeling is prema­low backfield mates. ture, every college in the "Gerome Sapp, first or all is 
9. QB Chris Lewis 6-4/205 Stanford 
country dreams of landing one a tremendous, tremendous 
10. RB Paul Arnold 6-0/200 Washington
of these players, and are will­young man...He's a tremen­ing to do just about anything dous kid for Notre 
11. RB Dontao Walker 5-10/200 Miss. State 
to attract them lo their uni­Dame, "Davie said versities. Wednesday. "We had him in 
12. 
TE Derek Smith 6-6/240 Kentucky 

13. 
DL Albert Hayesworth 6-6/310 Tennessee


One such player will be our summer camp and he's a wearing the Blue and Gold guy who l think will have an next year: Gerome Sapp, a 6-opportunity to play early. 
14. OL Bryce Bishop 6-5/305 Ohio State 
foot-1, 200-pound safety from He's strong and mature and I 
15. DB Gerome Sapp 6-1/200 Notre Dame
Houston, Texas. The consen­can see him having an oppor­sus top safety in the land, tunity to play and help this 
16. WR Lito Sheppard 5-1 l/l 85 Florida 
Sapp dominated the competi­football team." 
17. WR Jason Geathers 6-3/210 West Virginia 
tion this year with 130 tack­Mike Frank of the Irish les, 5 forced fumbles, 3 fumble Report sees Sapp as a player 
18. WR Kareem Kelly 6-1/187 USC 
recoveries and 5 intercep­who has a bright future and tions, returning two of them has the ability to be a star at 
19. QB Colby Freeman 6-3/210 TexasA&M 
for scores. Notre Dame. 
20. DB Mike Waddle 6-0/170 North Carolina
Sapp was a three-year "Sapp's a big-time hitter starter for Lamar High School and very fast for his size, too. 
21. DL Cedric Hilliard 6-3/300 Notre Dame 
and is projected as one of the He's a legit 4.4 guy ... He defi­
22. RB Bruce Thornton 5-11/182 Georgia
top fifteen players in the coun­nitely hits very, very hard. try, regardless of position. He He's the number one safety 
23. DL Bernard Riley 6-3/305 USC 
joins a long list of current in the country and everyone Notre Dame players who were knows it. I think if there's a 
24. OL Vernon Carey 6-5/315 Miami 
star prospects corning out of guy that's destined for great­
25. TE Gary Godsey 6-8/255 Notre Dame
high school, including Tony ness in this class, he would Driver, Brad Williams and the be the most likely, "said 
*as compiled by Tom Lemmings graduating Kory Minor, who Frank. was the 1994 USA Today Sapp's coach at Lamar, 
Defensive Player of the Year Tom Nolan has had the When asked why Sapp chose of tho school, the tradition and But he semns to have a great coming out of California. chance to see him first-hand Notre Dame over tlrn other top especially tlrn education." attitude and the physical skills 
a
Head coach Bob Davie sees on regular basis, and flight programs, Nolan was Irish !'ans must remember and if he continues to Sapp as a great person as well believes he's a great athlete quick to reply, "Education -that Sapp is only 18 years old improve, Sapp r,ould be the as an outstanding player, who but more importantly a good there's a lot of' great football and cannot expect an All­next star for Notre Dame. 
may contribute to next year's kid with his priorities set. 
programs but I think tlrn sizo American player next year. 
Davie 
continued from page 28 

though -I think (W<'ryone here se<is tlrn tal­ent and the futur<\ that Arnaz 13attlP has," Davie said. 'Tm not gonna dodge around it, W(J wanted a quarterback. We targeted tlrn quarterback wn wantnd and it just didn't work out." 
Some experts questioned Leak's handling of the process. 
"lie didn't do No!rl' Dame any good -he told them tlwy couldn't recruiL any otlwr quarterbacks or lw wouldn't go there, and lw l<id them on all tlw war until he faxed his IPttPr or intPnl to Wake ·rorest," said Tom 
-Lemming. a rnrruiting expert from Chicago who publish PS th t\ Tom Lnm mi ng's l'rnp Footb,dl HepDrl. "I don't think he shownd a lo! of class th<)l't\. I don't know what his ma­sons wrirn, mayb<' hP had good reasons to switch at the PIHi but a clay or so ago, lw told Ill!' lw was still lnaning to Notrn Dame." ;\ big part of' this year's overall succnss could be that ten of the 21 players who signed with tlw Irish had pr<'viously IW(lll to
• Davie's camp in tho summer. Davin stressed the importance of this because tlw r,oarlws w1'r11 abl1~ to work with ilrn players and oval­uatc them on a wnck-long basis in ordnr to rnakn good dncisions about who tlwy worn targeting. 
"I think tlw singl1: biggest recruiting tool wn huv,, hrrc at Notrn Dame, at least onn of' th1: biggest, is the summer l'ootball camp. You gPt thnsr young players hem in tlrn sum­mer, when there's grnon grass and some leaves on thoso tre1)S ,rnd this is a spectacu­lar campus. Plus you havi, the opportunity to have them around tl1c coaching staff for an 
... 
extended period of time and you get a chanrn to work with them and leach them," said Davie. "Alsn, you look at getting Gerome Sapp and Cedric llilliard; both these players were in our summrT camp and I don't know for sure ... that could have gone into Texas and got the No. 1 and No. 3-ranked playPrs {if' tlwy hadn't visited summer campl." 

Davie stressed that getting the best players is still the most important thing in improving and winning in collngn football. With his suc­C<'SS in the past two recruiting classns along with this year's 9-:{ campaign, Davi<' snes a bright future for his team. 
"Wp'vn still got llrn magic. You go around this country and soc how positive it is towards Notre Dame football and the fact that wo arc improving," DaviP said. "Wlrnn wn target the right players and the right ['its for,Notrn Dame and thcy'ro sincere about acad<•mics and they're sinc<)rn about coming to a place when1 tlwn:'s good people, we still havn the magic and w<i can still go in and gPt th<' top players in this country. I think this class and last year's class attests to that." 
Bnsides addressing the rncruiting and slitt1· ol' tlrn current Warn, Davie also commnntcd on tlrn biggest issue on campus right now, tlrn dPbatfi on joining the Big T('n. 
''1'111 glad I'm not in the dncision-making procnss on this lwcause it encompassns so many more things than just Notre Dame f'oot­bnll." Davie said, ''I'm not <'ducatecl or com­pclnnt enough Lo give an opinion on what that dons l'or us as we move forward but if you just ask me my opinion as a football coach, I'm very coml'ortablP with whern wn aro. 
·•1 likr• going i11to these homns and I likr• selling tlrn fact that we arr, uniqu<' and that WP ar<\ Lo sornP dngree. out on a limb in our own conference," he continued. ";\s long as wn have the NBC contract and as long as we havo that second-tier bowl alliance, which in 110 way to me compromises what our goals are or in no way lessens what we're trying to do, but it's a reality. With these two things in place, I'm totally comfortable right now with b<'ing an independent. I also see the position in the Big Ten -I see it as a win-win situa­tion for football but I like the aspect of being independent." 
Thursday, February 4, 1999 
FOXTROT 
PAIGE, I D<>N'T THINK 't'OV UNOERSTANO.' l'VE. SPENT HIJNOREl)S of 1-iovRS TRYtNG To OEFEAT lHE RE.0 oRg GUAl<'OIAN IN lli1S v,oeo 
DILBERT 

.._ 
,---------------------------------------------------------------~--­
~· 

Thi! Ob,nver • TODAY page 27 DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
MA 
A U C R 
R O 
AR 
MA 
E 
_-+•:....:•~=..:...-t'.~~:::-1
-

Z 
A 
N 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Tom Hulce, Janine Turner, Steven Wright, Watly Cox 
Hippy Birthd•y: There are many opportunities right around the comer. You must clear your plate and pre­pare yourself if you want to be able to take advantage of everything coming your way. Your tendency to hang on­to the past will come back to haunt you, so learn to dose doors. Your abil­ity to express yourself and your ideas will get you the help you need to achieve your dreams, hopes and wishes. Your numbers: 6, 9, J5, 25, 34, 41 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): It's time for you to get the praise you deserve. Avoid confrontations with co-workers who aren't pulling their weight. You've helped them enough; now let them stand on their own. 00 
YolJ Hl'WE To TELL l'IIE How You GoT 
PA~T HIM.' '(OU 
HAVE To.1 
E 
0 
q 

l'VC: D£CIDEO TO 6E 
0 
@" 

A. oocrOR. I WILL " 
E 

DETER.f"\TN~ W140 
'O 
" 

LIVES ANO WHO
" 
§ 

OIE5! 
E 
0 
I.) 
t: 
OJ 
£J 
'5 
~ 

;: ...J l: i______::.__--1.:;__:;:...._......1L-=:::=-.L.l...CLI 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 How-to stuff !I Toasted food 9 "Watership 
Down" author Richard 14 Say quickly 15 The art of weaving 1e Remains in Red Square? 17 Sign of goodness 
1a Holder of combs, perfumes, etc 
19 Espresso order 20 With 34-Across, a child's 12/24 
lament 
23 Gift in Maui 
240ne of the 
Kennedys 
st See 42-Across 
59 Agglomerate 
&0Exploits 
61 Auto dealer's deal 
63 The Louvre, par exemple 
64 Object of gossip 
65 Snake, so to 
speak 

66 Locks horns (with) 
67 Lifeguard's equipment 
68 Whimpered 
DOWN 
1 lt may be cast in aflick 2 ---B'rith 3 Baby whale 4 Embroiderer's purchase s Melancholy 6 Computer command 7 Problem in the joints 8 Drop 9 ldiolically wrong 
25 Pees' kin 
2a Schmooze 30 Worse than poor 34 See 20-Across 37Chowchow 
chow 38 Not carrying a 
heater 39 Barley beard 40 Carving, e.g. 41 "Family Ties" 
son 42 With 51-Across, 
Ma Bell's response 44 Brass-yellow 
minerals 46 "Yeah,--!" 47 Like a hit show 
48 It adjoins une cote ' 
49 Big Band -­

-+--+---1 11 Dead against 
T 

5 12 Burn protection 
t3 Snicker-­21 Daughter of King Lear 22 Singer Redding 
Logan Center and Super Sibs are looking for new student members. You must have a sibling with a dis­ability to join and be matched with a grade-school­aged child from the local community. Events take place on weekends. Call Hosie McDowell (289-4831 ext. 1032) at Logan Center for more info. 
Hadley Arkes, Edward Ney Professor of Jurisprudence and American Institutions at Amherst College, will present "On the Novelties of' an Old Constitution: Settled Principles and Unsettling Surprises" today at 4 p.m. in tht~ Law School Courtroom. This is the first lectures in the Olin Distinguished Lecture Series, 
Cliff Kindy. a ten-year volunteer with Christian Peacemaker Teams on projects in the Gaza Strip, Hebron and Chiapas, will present "Nonviolent Peacemaking in Conflict Zones" today at 12:30 p.m. in seminar room C-103 in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
Wanted: 
Puzzle by Jim Page 
29 Despondency, with "the" 30 Producing groans, maybe 31 Custard pies 32--grabs 33 Kind ofticket 35 It runs while you ride 36 Bowl over 
Bl!Li\MEND 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Put
WELL, OF CouRSE I Dot4'T 

your efforts into money-making ven­
'You DID ONcE THIN!< 

tures. It's not a good day to trust oth­HE WAS DEAD. YOU UNDER· 
ers with secrets. Social events wilt be in your best interest. You could meet
WAIT.' I kl-low.' STAND, 

someone very special. 0000
IT WAS 1'1E J'ASoN,_, 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You'll SWoRO oF I 
be highly active where partnerships FuRY.1 AM 
are concerned, It's tirne you made a decision regarding your present part­
I Rl&HT1! 

ner and the infatuation you have with 
I 

someone else. 000 CANCER (June 21-Juty 22): Go
~...,___, 

about your business and your profes­sionalism will shine through. You may get your feelings hurt al work. Don't take someone else's foolishness toheart.000 
LEO (July 23-Aug, 22): You're 

somewhat superstitious today lhink 
twice before sharing your fears with a
SCOTT ADAMS 


friend who has trouble keeping secrets You'll be a lot luckier than ,; you think if you don't dwell on past 
C 
Wl-1AT? I CAN'T 

Birthday Baby: You know what you want and exactly how to get it. You
OIE f'ROI"\ AN ULCtR 1 

were born w, th the whcrewi thal to push your needs to the forefront and make 
others bend to your wishes.You're powerful and quite able to succeed, but the 
lesson of compassion and fair play must be learned along the way. 
(Need advice? Visit Eugenia on the Web at www.astroadvice.com or www.eugenialast.com.) 
MA'<~E NOT, 
13UT I. EN-:YOY 'THE CH~.LLENGE.. 

¦ OF INTEREST 
Holy Cross Associates is sponsoring a Discernment Evening -Sunday, Fob. 7, from 5 to 8 p,m. It's a night of mass, dinner and discussion about life as a Holy Cross Associate, Meet former Holy Cross Associates and otlwr students considering a year of service. For more info, call Jon at 1-5521. 



Fri. Feb.5th at 7pm First 1000 fans receive free microwave popcorn!!! 
First 300 students --FREE! 
fears. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Stpt. 22): Don't spend what you don't have. You'll have difficulty understanding your mate's erratic behavior. Be patient and listen to his or her pleas. They may be valid. 0000 
LIBRA (Sept, 23-0ct. 22): Get out early and plan to do some shopping at speoalty shops. Take some time to talk to old friends. Interaction with others will lead to some interesting thoughts. 00 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Home alterations will increase value Try to compensale tor your lack ot attention to loved ones. You may be busy, buI they need your time and help. Get organized and you'll fit everything in. 00000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may have to make a personal decision. Don't be forced into doing something you don't want to. Take control of your life and you'll do well; tet others interfere and you'll be sorry. 
000 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
Consider taking a break. You will be quick-tempered if someone has let you down. Slow down and make whatever changes are necessary instead of letting someone else affect your life. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Others will be takin~ note of your impeccable style. You ve been work­ing at doing your own thing and acceptance is proof that you made the right choices. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your best efforts will come from redecorat­ing, renovation or actual residential moves. You can make money invest· ~roperty or long-term bills. 
45 Tiny laughs 54 "Steep Trails" author 

Reporters and 
50 Lit 55About
51 Canine holders 56 Army wheels 52--toone's 57 Theater area 

photographers.
ears 58 Foe of the 53 Traveler's need, Clantons maybe 62 Circus catcher 

Join The 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 

Sat. Feb. 6th at 7pm 
First 500 fans receive free hockey hanky!!! 
First 300 students --FREE! 
,. ­
--

¦ Saint Mary's bas­¦ The women's box­¦ NBA star Dennis ketball team falls to ing club begins its vet­Rodman is consider­Kalamazoo College eran season with more ing a move to the 
p. 18 than 60 members. Lakers. p.23 p. 17
PORTS 
O 
THE 

page 28 ------------------------Thursday, February 4, 1999
BSERVER 

,------­
r 
On national signing day, Notre Dame inked more than just top football recruif s. 
The Irish women's soccer program signed Randy Waldrum to the hrad coaching position. filling a void left in December when two-time Coach (If the '{ear Chris Petrucelli rnsigned. 
-
Waldrum has commanded the Baylor Bears program for the past thrPe yPars. 
In his stint as head coach. he earned a record of 46-14-3 for the young program and won Big XII Coach of the Year hon­ors, finishing the season with a 
-

¦ WOMEN'S SOCCER 

By KATHLEEN LOPEZ Sporrs Editor 
Waldrum named new women's soccer coach 
mark of 15-5-1 and a 9-0-1 record in conference play. Baylor finislrnd the season earning its first bid in the NCAA women's soccer championship. 
"I am looking forward to the challenge and making the change," Waldrum said. "Chris Petrucelli did a great job and those are tough shoes to fill." 
Petrucelli left Notre Dame's program, which he took to national prominence in nine years of coaching, in order to build the ncdgling program at thn UnivPrsity of Tf'xa!'i 
"Notre Dame has been a great place for me and my fam­ilv," Petrucelli stated at the time of his resignation. "It has enabled me to grow as a couch and accomplish things many people felt weren't possible. I'm sad to bl' leaving such a great place like ~otre Dame. I 
' CHRIS PETRUCELLI DID A GREAT JOB AND 
THOSE ARE TOUGH SHOES 
TO FlLL.' 
RANDY WALDR[!,\f 
NOTRE DAME WOMEN'S SOCCER 
HEAD COACH 
enjoyed working with everyone at Notre Dame. especially with• in the athletic department. Texas presents mt: with a great opportunity to build another program. I can only hope we havfl close to the amount or success that Notre Dame has had." 

He assumes almost identical responsibilities to those which had whi.le coacl1ing Notre Dame. 
Petrucelli signed two former Notre Dame soccer players to help with his new coaching responsibilities -NHormer Irish All-Americans Jen Henoia and Tony Capasso will assume the job of Longhorn assistants. 
Prior to his coaching stint at Baylor, Waldrum coached boLh thn rnon's and women's teams at the University of Tulsa. Ile spent six there and compiled a mark of 66-33-6 with the men's team. The womnn's team earned a record of 61-36-9 and were ranked 18th in 1993 and 21st in 1992. 
Waldrum also served as the state couch for the Olympic Development Program. He has also served as an assistant coach of the U.S. women's under-18 national tflam in 1998 and for the under-20 national team at the 1997 Nordic Cup. 
Ile played collegiate soccer at Midwoskrn State University in Wichita Falls, Texas. 
/\Iler b<,ing a four-time all­distriet player, he played pro­f'ossional soccer \Vi th thn Los 
see WALDRUM/ page 20 

SS OF 2003 
The Observer/Jeff Hsu 

For the second straight year, head coach Bob Davie and the Notre Dame coaching staff signed a recruit­
--

ND inks 21 new recruits 
By TIM CASEY Sports Writer 
Bob Davie and his staff con­tinued their recruiting magic Wednesday, once again haul­ing in one of the top classes in the nation. 
The Irish signed 21 players that are expected to challenge for playing time right away ­including four l'irst-team All­USA Today performers. 
Headlining this class is a mammoth offensive line as well as two defensive stars from Texas, Gerome Sapp and Cedric Hilliard. who were both first-team All-l.JSA Today performers and the state's first-and third-ranked prospects. respectively. 
At the skill positions, run­ning back Julious Jones out of Virginia, receiver Jamaar Taylor from Texas and tight­end Gary Godsey from Florida could make an immediate impact on the Irish. The Irish also signed two kickers, Nick Setta and Joey Hildbold, both of whom Davie see as having a good opportunity of han­dling the kickoff and punting duties next year. 
"We signed two kickers. That is something we felt we needed to do, particularly with Hunter Smith leaving. We wanted a lot of competi­tion with the kicking gamn," said Davie. "Both will have the opportunity to kick and 

ing class that ranks among the top in the nation. 
punt. We need a kickoff man Irish coaching stnff by opting who can put th~ ball in the to sign a letter of' intent with cndzone. Field position hurt Wake Forest. 
us last year and th<' punting Earli1•r in tho dav. il had job is wide open." bnen announcnd · on the 
But the success story got Internet lhat Lnak had faxed tPmperPd by a sizahln disap­his letter lo tho Irish. and he pointment. C.J. Leak, one or was nxpcct(1cl Lo· commit to the top quarterbacks in the Notre Dame Wednusdav af'tor­country shocked all the 110011. Leak had 11evc1: taken recruiting gurus and even the an official visit to Wake Forost. although he: had a few unofficial visits oarlicr this year. Irish head coach Bob DaviP brieflv commented on the situation' in his press con­ference. 
"Mah1 no mistake about it, we wanted a quarterback in this class. It was not critical, 
see DAVIE/ page 26 

¦ WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish win sustains streak 
By BRIAN KESSLER 
Assisrant Sports Edi.ror 

Notre Dame's balanced attack has been difficult to stop all year. 
Whether it's Ruth Riley putting up a school-record 41 points or Sheila McMillen lighting up opponents from three-point land, the sixth­ranked Irish have been get­ting it done all season. 
Last night was no different. 
Junior guard Niele Ivey stole the show this time at the Joyce Center and led the Irish (18•2} to a 7 4-59 victo­ry over No. 20 Boston College. 
"That was a huge win for us," said head coach Muffet McGraw, whQse team fell to 
B.C. earlier this season. "I think Boston College is a great team. They played tremendous defense, espe­cially in the first half, and they really took us out of our inside game, but I thought Niele really stepped up for us. She played a great game. In the first half when Ruth was on the bench, she took over the scoring load. That's something she's able to do all the time, but she's a very unselfish player." 
Ivey caught firo and helpPd keepthe Irish in front early with 13 first-half points. She also dished out seven assists and finished with 17 points on 4~of-6 shooting from downtown. 
"I remember the last time we played 8.C., I played poorly," Ivey said. "I came info the game thinking I have to play better than I did 
see IRISH/ page 22 
Men's and Women's

w 
vs. Seton Hall Men's Swimming
at Rolex National Indoor 
· Saturday, 2 p.m. at Ruffalo
SPORTS 
Dallas, Texas 
Friday, 6 p.m.
Thurs.-Sat. 

-ATA 
Track and Field 
at Seton Hall 
Michigan Stare 
Meyo Invitational 
Saturday, I 2 p.m. 
Friday, 7 p.m.
GLANCE 
Fri.-Sat. 




