Carnage in the JACC Kosovo Crisis 
Wednesday

¦ Seeking a way to resolve stalemate in campus issues, 
¦ See detailed coverage of the status of the 
Notre Dame has scheduled a series ofwresdi ng marches in 
crisis and where the refugees are headed. 
the Joyce Center between prominent campus personalities. 
APRIL 7, 

The Absurder Insert 
1999
News• 4 

THE 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 117 WWW. N D.EDU/-OBSERVER 
McCaffrey: 'It's all of America that is using drugs' 
By CHRISTOPHER SHIPLEY 
News \Vritcr 
Prevention and education of the young should be the most important goals for parents in (foaling with the reality of illegal drug use, according to Barry McCaffrey, the director of' the White llousn Office of' National Drug Control Policy, in a TuPsday lecture. 
McCa!Trey presented the 1999 U.S. National Drug Control Strat£lgy and dis­cussed tlw Clinton Administration's progress in curbing Amnrican drug con­sumption. 
The Strategy outlines five goals and 31 to end donwstic substance abuse. 
"It's all of America that is using drugs," Mccaffrey told the audience, which included South Bend \1ayor Stnven 
I. tw c kt> . •· lt · s t he pP d ia t r ic surgeons, it's th,\ ministnrs, ew•n tlw drn,,rl,~adcrs." 
Thirt,~en million Americans us<' ilhigal drugs each month, and of' those, 4.1 million are chemically addicted to a for­eign substance, he said. Fourteen thousand people die from narcotics related inci­dents every year, and drug addicts habitually cost tax payers over $110 billion in damages. 
The former commander-in­c hicf of the U.S. Armed Forces Southern Command described the problem of drug and alcohol abuse as the one blemish in a "healthy and positive'' nation. 
"Alcohol is hands down the most dangerous drug i"n Anrnrica," McCaffrey said. 
According to the Strategy, cocaine production and con­sumption have been cut by nearly 70 percent, but other drugs, like heroin and methamphetamines have recently become very popu­lar. 
McCaffrev. who was at one time the m·ost highly decorat­ed and youngest four-star general in the U.S. Army. comparnd the understanding of the "war on drugs" to that 

of a battle against cancer. 
"If wo handle this problem as a war. there can be no total victory." Mccaffrey said. "I've been aching to shift this metaphor of the war on drugs to the fact that this is a can­cer. Drugs are a cancer." 
McCaffrey also focused on the composition of the American public that uses illegal narcotics. African Americans and active mem­bers of the Armed Forces fall into the category with the lowest amount of drug abuse, according to Mccaffrey. 
Health professionals and airline pilots have the highest rate of drug abuse in the country. Mccaffrey then pointed out that despite the belief that drugs are found primarily in foner cities, almost 80 percent of' all drugs are bought in the suburbs. 
Some audience members expressed concerns, however. that harsh sentences are typi­cally handed down to African 
see DRUGS/ page 6 

Stuck in the middle 


The Observer/Mary Calash Contrary to popular belief, almost 80 percent of all drugs are bought in America's suburbs, said Barry McCaffrey, director of the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy, in his lecture Tuesday. 
¦ GRADUATE STUDENT UNION 

Clause denial focus of town hall meeting 
By BRAD UNTIEDT 
News Writer 
In conjunction with the Graduate Student Council (GSC) meeting, the Graduate Student Union held a town hall meeting to discuss the issues concerning the University's decision not to include homosexuality in its non-discrimi­nation clause. 
"As much as Catholic char­the decision acter."
'THE WHOLE WAY THAT 
angers and Other mem­
THE UNIVERSITY HAS
repulses me, I b e r s am more frus-HANDLED THIS ISSUE SUCKS.' expressed 
nation clause held by gradu­ate students. 
"Our opinion on record is 'Yes, we are in favor of !hav­ing sexual orientation added],"' said Suzanne Coshow. GSC member. "It is appalling and disgusting that the Uni\ ersity has kept its legal right to discriminate based on sexual orientation and justifying it through 
trated by the way it was handled," said Kelly Gritten. "I am not proud to be a graduate stu­dent at Notre Dame because this is another way that shows that we don't count. 1t is phe­nomenally frustrating." 
The GSC sponsored the forum in conjunction with the resolution the council passed expressing their disappoint­ment with the Board of Trustee's decision. 
"We want to do this to let everyone know what is going on," said Marybeth Graham, former GSC president. 
The forum covered the opin­ions about the non-discrimi­
their displea­sure with the SEAN BOR,WAN board's deci­GSC A.fEMBER sion and the manner in which the decision was 

handled. 
"The whole way that the University has handled this issue sucks." said Sean Borman, GSC member. "It is a denial of legal rights." 
The forum touched on rea­sons and justifications for the board's decision not to include sexual orientation. 
"Is this [forum] going to do anything for us? No, the University showed that it didn't give a s**t about our opinions," Borman said. "They 
see GSU/ page 6 


Wednesday, April 7, 1999
page 2 The Observer• INSIDE 
¦ INSIDE COLUMN 



On Suburbia 
I am sorry to tell you that many of you read­ing this column arc that most dreaded of beings -a suburbanite. 
Most of us were born in suburbia, but that doesn't make us suburban--~~~-----=----=--=---------_,­
ites. Only an unfortunate few claim that distinction. The tragic circumstances of one's suburban birth can be overcome. "Suburbanite" is a deliber­ate choice. 
It implies a masterful 


level of self-absorption, a  Laura Petelle  
supreme indifTerence to  Assisram Managing Editor  
the outside world and a  
complete lack of any sort  
of grasp on reality.  

Here's the surest way to find out of you're a suburbanite: 
When you drove back from Spring or Easter Break on 80/90, in which lane -left or right ­did you spend most of your trip? 
If you answered left, slap yourself: You're a suburbanite. That's tackier than white shoes after Labor Day. Everyone knows that you drive in the right lane, except when you want to pass. Only clueless suburbanites are rude enough to block everyone else by cruising in the left lane, like those two Domers in the cute little green car with the Illinois vanity plates ­you know who you are, and you so deserved it when that truck cut you off. And didn't your mother ever teach you not to tailgate trucks carrying flammable chemicals? 
There's nothing particularly wrong with sub­urbia. It's an nice place. Wide lawns, big trnes, proximity to the culture of major cities. But too often, it turns into a hotbed of homogeneity that turns out automatons frightened by any semblance of free thought. 
Even if you 're as suburban as those two boys in the green car, it can be overcome. Check this little list to see how suburban you are: 
During your high school career, did you ever go cow tipping? Ifyou did, slap yourself. Only suburban kids go cow tipping. Hural kids think it's mean to the cow or have seen enough cows, and city kids live too far away from cows to make it practical. 
I lave you ever shown up to a lecture class wearing the same thing as someone else? If so, slap yourself, and quit shopping at J. Crew and Abercrombie. 
Before you went to college. did you ever drive on a toll road outside your home state? If not, slap yourself; your parents let you fly too much, depriving you of a pleasure of 17-hour car rides to Grandma's. You might also be from the South, where they don't have toll roads. Slap yourself anyway, just on principle, since you don't have to pay tolls. 
Finally, have you ever been to the city your suburb is attached to? If not, you are the i.iber­suburbanite. Slap yourself six or seven times. 
Now, count up how many times you slapped yourself. If the answer is "one or more," you probably look fairly ridiculous for slapping yourself repeatedly in public while reading a newspaper. Count up how many times you would have slapped yourself, if you were silly Pnough to do such a thing. If the answer is. "oh gosh, a whole bunch of times," don't despair; there is hope. 
Hun yourself right out and sec a foreign film with subtitles (no dubbing); an Oscar-nominat­ed foreign film drwsn't count. 
Visit any one of the following: a rodeo, a pawnshop, a symphony concert. a corn fh>ld, a s.ecdy jazz club. a second-hand bookstore. 
But above all. go do something different. J\nd for God's sake, drive in the right lane on 80/90. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofTlze Observer. 
¦ TooAv's STAFF  
News  Scene  
Colleen McCarthy  Emmett Malloy  
Mike Romanchek  Jenn Zatorski  
Laura Rompf  Graphics  
Sports  Mandi Powell  
l\.1ike Connolly  Production  
Viewpoint  Noah Amsradcer  
Colleen Gaughen  Lab Tech  
Mary Margaret Nussbaum  Joe Stark  

The Ob,erver (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday [hrough Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of 1hc A"ocia1cJ Prc,s. All reproduction righh arc re,ervcd. 



utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Wrestling team appears on web in pornographic videos 
PlllLJ\DEl,PIIIA 
the team members, \Vildes said. 
The "Young Studs" on Penn's University police conducted an wrestling team are getting more investigation at that time to find out than their fair share of public expo­who was responsible for the videos sure -but most of it is uninvited. -some of which feature Hutchinson 
Several members of the team -Gymnasium locker rooms as a back­which was ranked No. 11 in the drop, Wildes said. country this year -are the subjects "The investigation was inconclu­of pornographic hidden video tapes sive, but even if wn had identified and pictures that are posted and for someone ... there was no law in the 
including The Chicago Tribune, the

sale on a \'Vorld Wide Web site. book that would have permitted us 
hidden cameras were concealed

The tapes were apparently made to press charges [at that timel," both on campus and at a national under towels and in gym bags. One Wildes said. He added that the 
competition in Chicago, according to video camera was still running when University "would move very quickly University spokesperson Ken Wildes. it was found by a wrestler at the if we could [hope] to receive some Midlands Wrestling Championship
The Federal Bureau of semblance of retribution." 
who turned it over to a

Investigation is currently reviewing Linda Vizi, spokesperson for the Northwestern Athletic Department
the tapes of Penn athletes and other Philadelphia branch of the FBI. said videos taken during a national colle­official. Chicago FBI agents and the United Penn officials found out about the
giate wrestling tournament held at States Attorney's office in Chicagovideos a year ago when an athlete at
Northwestern University in 1995 "are reviewing the material to see if and put on the Internet by a compa­the University of Memphis discov­there appears to be any violation of ny called YoungStuds. ered a video featuring members of federal statutes, which are investi­
According to several newspapers, the Penn team and sent it to one of gated by the FBI." 
¦ NEW YORK UNIVERSITY 
Protestors storm dean's office 
NEW YORK 

New York University students protesting the alleged poor representation of minorities in tenured and tenure­track faculty positions in the school of law stormed Vanderbilt Hall Monday, eventually coming to a halt inside dean John Sexton's office. The students were part of a rally being held in Vanderbilt's courtyard. About 100 students attended the rally, which was organized by the Coalition for Legal Recruiting (CoLR) to voice stu­dent complaints about what they say is a dramatic dis­parity between the number of white and minority facul­ty. The rally also commemorated a student protest that was held about ten years ago in which a group of activists with similar complaints occupied the steps of the hall. According to a study by CoLH, the NYU Law School's clinical law program has no Asian American or Hispanic faculty. 
¦ MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY Police arrest first riot suspect 
EAST LANSING, Mich. 

The first person charged with a felony in connection with the March 27-28 Michigan State riot was arraigned in court Monday along with three others charged with misdemeanors. Freshman Mark Barry was arrested Friday at his home and charged with a felony count of inciting a riot. The charge carries a maximum penalty of 10 years and a $10,000 fine. Bis pretrial is set for April 
14. Barry, 19, must report weekly to a probation ollicer until his trial is finished. Police do not consider Barry a student because he is a member ol' the MSU agricultural­tech program, which finished its semester about two weeks ago. Barr's attorney. Bernard Finn, said he was unsure of how police caught his client. East Lansing police Capt. Louis Muhn said police issU(•d a warrant for a 20­year-old man for unarmed robbery and malicious destruc­tion of property exceeding $10,000. 
¦ UNIVERSITY OF CAUFORNIA-los ANGELES 
Lawsuit alleges mishandling of cadavers 
LOS ANGELES 

The last motion in a lawsuit alleging University of California-Los Angeles improperly disposed of cadavers used for research was struck clown by a court commis­sioner last week. Bruce Mitchell, a Los Angeles Superior Court commissioner, ruled on March 31 that UCL/\ has no legal responsibility to those related to the deceased and therefore could not be negligent or responsible for damages. The original suit, filed in 1996. claims the bod­ies of loved ones that \-Vere donated to the school for medical study were disposed of in an improper manner. "The court sympathizes with the plaintiffs' predica­ment," Mitchell, wrote in a tentative ruling. "As tlw sen­sibilities of our society have continued to evolve, perhaps it is time that we re-examine the rights accorded to rela­tives of the deceased, but this matter must be address1id in the legislature." 
¦ STANFORD UNIVERSITY Med school narrowly avoids probation 
STJ\NFOHD. Calif. 

The national agency that accredits American medical schools has narrowly voted not to place the Stanford School of Medicine on probation. A recent study found the poor quality and condition of Stanford's teaching facilities unac­ceptable, according to a letter the agency sent to president Casper. Accreditation by the national agm1cy, the Liaison Committee on Medical Education, is an eligibility require­ment for institutions seeking fodcral funds. Accreditation is also necessary if an institution's graduates are to be eligiblf1 to take the United States Medical Licensing Examination. a test one must pass to practice medicirw in the U.S. Tlw agency's letter to Casper included specific condemnations of outdated lecture halls and teaching laboratories. The agency also had harsh criticism for the Medical School's library. which only has air conditioning in those areas used bv librarians, no bathrooms and a subpar computer systmn. · 

¦ SOUTH BEND VVEATHER ¦ NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Hcnd Forecast 
AccuWeather .. forec.1s1 for daytime L'o11Ji11011s .111J high temperatures 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, Apr. 7. 
H L 

Wednesday Windy 68 41 Thursday Q, 68 47 Friday Q, 59 51 
FRONTS: 
e e


Saturday ~62 49 
• • •e •

C 1999 AccuWeather, Inc. COI.D WARM STATIONARY
., ; 
Pr•••ur•: 

®© ......


Sunday --~54 44 
High Low Shower& Rain T&•torma Flurrie-s Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
/"" '-1...:..i
~ .: '"\J~-" Atlanta 83 56 Dailas 82 60 Miami 81 70 Baltimore 74 48 Denver 67 35 New York 68 49 Boston 64 46 Honolulu 84 69 Phoenix 73 55

4,~,~qQ.Q (f ~ ~ 
Chicago 69 46 lndianpolis 72 43 St. Louis 73 50 
Showers T-storms Ram Fl~,;,es $~~; Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Columbus n 44 Los Angeles 61 46 Vail 59 23 
v.. Assoc,..,ed Press GrapllaNet 

Wednesday, April 7, 1999 
The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Ahearne: Problems abound with nuclear power 
By ANNE MARIE amount of money in local 
MATTINGLY taxPs. 
.\"ociact News Editor Y<' t a n o tlw r p r o b I ,, m in 
us i n g n u cl n a r pow(~ r IiP s in 
Nudnar po\\'l'r sourcl's havP the fact that plants are <~xpen­
major ad\'antagPs hncausP s ivP to build, according to 
tlwy provide a dPan sourcP ol' Alwarrw. 
Prwrgy. bul SPVPral problt>ms "IA nuclPar power plant 
associatPcl with rPartors and has I low 01wrating costs, but 
w<Is t" a Is o n xis t. s a id .Io hn t lw re· s a n .-n o r m o u s c a p i ta I 
:\ h "a rrw. din~ ctor o I' the cost to build it." lw said. "That 
Si g m a Xi C" n ll' r S d P 11 ti fi c is a killing factor for· nudnar 
HPs1•arch Society at Dukt' pow1~r. .. 
LnivPrsity. in a l1•1·turP Alwarrw attribut<\d thn large 
luPsdav. l'XJwnsP to tlw amount of time 
··T1w· princip)P b1•1wl'its to it tak<~s lo comph~tc the plant­
nucl1•ar pow!'r is that tlwrp's building process. lie pointed 
no grrenhous1• gasns. tlwre's out that in .Japan, where 
no pa rt inila t I's . t lw r,f' ·s n o plants arc built three times as 
smog and therl'·s no arid fast as in the United States, 
rain," said Alwariw. tlrny arP much <'heapPr. 
But lw said numProus prob­l.icPnsing is also a problem 
lPrns makP utilizing tlw 1•rwr­for nuclPar power companies, 
gy sourrl' far from ickal. according to Alwarrw. 
First of all. nuclt>ar Prwrgy .. Currn n t nu c II\ a r pow1\ r 
can not bn g,~nl'ratPd on a plants havn lic,•nscs for 40 
small sea IP. PXplainPd y Pars.·· IH1 said . (' x p I a in in g 
:\lwarnP. that when that timP is up the 
"Each lplantJ has nnough plants must eitlwr renew their 
d1~ctricity for a city of 400 to licenses or shut down. 
500 thousand people," he "There's a big dPbatc about U.S. include mixing the mater­Utah and Nevada, but that gerous for much longer than
said. noting that plants Iocat-whether license renewal can 
ial with other radioactive high level waste poses a big­that. 
1• d I'a r from cities r P quire occur and should occur." 
samples. encasing it in glass ger problem. Though proponents of many po,.,·er linPs to d,diver T h (i fi n a I pro b I c m th at 
or ceramics, and putting it "The real danger ... is the nuclear energy say that the 
tlw ir e IH' r g y to co n s u m e rs plagues the nuclear energy into a depository or mixing it high level waste," he said, problem of waste disposal hasovPr a larger an~a. industry is the disposal of the with Plutonium and using it as 
noting that this material has been solved, Ahearne said Sal'Pty considPrations also nuclear waste produced in tlrn fuel in nuclear reactors, previously been stored in that environmentalists do notposP a problmn for advocates proccssns. said Ahearne. He Ahearne said. 
tanks not designed to hold it believe the material can beor nudPar powPt', according to noted that material released 
However, the process of get­and that these tanks could kept safely long enough peri­Alwarrw. from nuclear warheads con­ting rid of Plutonium is not leak. "We don't even know od. 
.. PeoplP foar radiation and sists primarily of enriched advancing. 
what's in some of the tanks." By producing it, future gen­
they therefore fear nuclear Uranium and Plutonium. 
"There's a very large Ahearne said that the erations will have to contend
power," hP said, noting that "The world is riding on a 
amount of radioactive materi­Environmental Protection with major problems.
people often associatP nuclear tiger and doesn't know how to 
al about which something has Agency's current standards Ahearne is a member of the power with nuclear w,rnpons. get off," he said. "Even if all to be done," he said. 
require that hazardous mater­National Academy of
However, once the plants weapons-related work was 
Ahearne explained that cur­ial be stored in such a way Engineering.
an" built, citizens like them, stopped and all reactors were 
rently low level waste -the that it will be kept environ­He earned his Ph.D. from
he said, because they provide shut down tomorrow, (there'd less dangerous type -is men tally safe for at least Princeton University and cur­jobs and because power com­still be a lot of waste]." 
deposited in sites in 10,000 years, but that some of rently teaches at Duke pan i(!S pay an enormous Current approaches in the Washington, South Carolina, the material may remain dan-University. 
~-=­
.,,"' ~­
'. 1 

-\f 

1s,.··..•..... "~ 
. ,••--·•::~.?'~;-, 

·--·;i:,:f~:~::):b~fi.-:-· 
«<Yeats clib·m~tt1 
+it 


Mooern-ft&:f?, 
FacalttY, Stabents, an~ the UnfveRsftN CornrnanftN aRe invite~ to a lectu11e Tonigbt, ApRfl 7, 1999 at 7 :00 p.rn. 

I CenteR foll Continuing Ebacatfon . I Recepffon to Follou, 
-~~~~~~~~~~-! 
page 4 The Observer • CRISIS IN KOSOVO Wednesday, April 7, 1999 
-----------·--·-···· ----------------------­

''They are sleeping on the ground, with no tents and no mattresses. It's freezing at night. If you live there and sit there and sleep there, it's filthy." 
¦ MACEDONIA 




Thousands of refugees flee to No Man's Land 
Associated Press 

SKOPJE 
Forlorn-looking graves freshly dug into the muddy hillsides told the story Tuesday: disease, hunger and exhaustion are taking a grim toll on tens of thou­sands of refugees crammed into a squalid border encampment. 
An estimated 65,000 people driven from their homes in the southern Serbian province of Kosovo are trapped in no man's land at Blace, straddling Kosovo and the former Yugoslav republic of Macedonia. 
Journalists were kept out of the fetid, teeming camp. which was watched over by Macedonian police and army troops wearing gas masks. But some sickened refugees could be seen being carried away on stretchers. 
Ominously, at least 32 fresh graves \\-·ere counted in the surrounding hills. 
"I don't think anyone exactly knows how many people have died," said Sheri Fink of the International Medical Corps. "It's been so busy and crowded that we haven't been able to keep track of the number of patients or write down their names. There are no statistics." 
Medical oflicers at Blace said the primi­tive conditions were leading to an out­break of illnesses, including diarrhea. 
An open-pit latrine was constructed only Tuesday morning in Blace. more than a week after the makeshift encamp­ment sprang up. Refugees had been relieving themselves in a muddy field that has become a foul-smelling open sewer. 
NATO forces worked nonstop Tuesday to erect tent cities meant to accommo­date more than 100,000 refugees. But 130,000 Kosovars have already arrived in Macedonia, not counting the 65,000 trapped at Blace and an estimated 30,000 other refugees caught in a bottle­neck at a border crossing in southwest­ern Jazince. 
Macedonian officials said Yugoslav authorities had closed the Jazince cross­ing on the their side of the frontier, and that a miles-long queue of refugees was waiting enter Macedonia. 
Huud Huurmann, a spokesman for Doctors Without Borders, said in a tele­phone interview from Skopje. the Macedonian capital. that Macedonian authorities blocked the group from unloading supplies that have sat at the airport for five days. 
Huurmann said refugees were suffer­ing from pneumonia and skin problems because of the squalor. 
"They are sleeping on the ground, with no tenlc; and no mattresses. It's freezing at night," Huurmann said. "If you live there and sit there and sleep there, it is filthy." 
Stung by criticism of his government's performance. Prime Minister Ljubco Georgievski lashed out at the critics Tuesday and blamed the United States, NATO and the European Union for the mess. 
"Over the last 15 days after the airstrikes started, Macedonia cried out that something dramatic was going to happen. The United States and European Union have done nothing to help," Georgievski said. "We have also been forced to allow more refugees than the limits of Macedonian acceptance." 
Worried about their country's political and ethnic stability. Macedonian authori­ties arc trying to move out as many refugees as they can. 
Ruud Huurmann Doctors without Borders spokesman 
¦ YUGOSLAVIA 


Milosevic declares cease fire 
Associated Press 
BELGRADE 
Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic declared a unilateral cease-fire Tuesday in his campaign to crush rebels in Kosovo, saying he wanted to honor the Orthodox Easter holiday this weekend. Western leaders called the move a sham and ph~dged to press ahead with airstrikes. 
Moments after the cease-fire took effect at 8 p.m. (2 p.m. EDT). air-raid sirens wailed in Belgrade, heralding new NATO attacks. 
Government media said a fuel storage facility at the airport near Kosovo's capital Pristina was targeted early Wednesday, and state television said a garage and a warehouse at an oil refinery in Novi Sad, Serbia's second largest city, were destroyed. 
At least six explosions could be heard late Tuesday in the direction of the Batajnica military airport just north of Belgrade and tracer rounds from anti-air­craft were seen in the night sky. 
Yugoslav television stations reportfid fur­ther attacks at Uzice, 75 miles southwest of Belgrade; near Kraljevu, 75 miles south of Belgrade: and at Pancevo and Cacak, two industrial towns. U.S. officials say a munitions plant is located at Cacak. 
Another missile struck a residential dis· trict in Podgorica, capital of the tiny Yugoslav republic Montenegro. There were no injuries but several buildings were damaged, according to Associated Press reporters on the scene. 
A group of professors from Belgrade University -mostly members of the nco­Co mm u n ist Yugoslav Left led by 
Milosevic's wife  - stood on  a  Belgrade  
bridge through the night to  serve  as  a  
"human shield" against attack.  

The Yugoslav cease-fire declaration was clearly aimed at staving off further NATO attacks and at presenting Milosevic's gov­ernment as a champion of peace. 

¦ VATICAN CnY 
Vatican: Act shows move toward peace 
Associated Press 
The Vatican greeted Yugoslavia's unilateral cease-fire with Kosovo's rebels as a "sign of peace" on Tuesday and again 
urged NATO to halt its airstrikcs. 
Vatican frnvoys have been work­ing without suc­cess for an end to the NATO bomb­ings as well as a return 


Yugoslav leaders John Paul II and ethnic Albanians in Kosovo to the negoti­ating table. 
"One thing is certain: to continm• the violence of the last few days represents a gravP obstacle to tlrn search for a 1rngotiatPd peace," said the Vatican secrntary of' state, Archbishop Jean-Louis Tauran. 
Tauran, who nrnt 1,,vith Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic last week. said Tuesday that the cease­fire was a "very important step towards peace." 
Pope John Paul II has repeatedly called for an nnd to the conflict and on Easter Sunday he implored Yugoslav authorities to open a "humanitarian corridor" so aid can r n a ch Kosovo's des p•~rate refugees. 


\X'e<lnes<lay, April 7, 1999 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
¦ VVORU) NEVVS BRIEfS 
Pungent cash trips up suspect 
EHII!, Pa . 
.,\ man who all1igPdly grablwd $500,000 in rash from tlw safe of' his liancpp's parnnts and \\'l!nt on a spPrHling sprPI\ \Vith a pal was trippPd up becaus1· tlw stash had been tlwr<! so long it had takPn on a musty odor. Polin· say tlw dancers at an Eri<! strip club snwll('(l froublP after 2]-year-old St1wen \\'oitkowski and a friPnd gave them tips totaling nParly $8,000 over t\vo days in Party Fnbruary. \Voitkov\'ski novv faces bur­glary and tlwrt chargPs. Authoriti<~s say a tip from tlw club's owner about the pungent rash haltnd a spnnding sprnn by Woitkowski that also included a 1ww l\forccd<~s-B1~nz, vidPo and stNPO <·quipnwnt and a trip to .\tlanti<' City with his mother. llis friend Joseph Dibble faces rnlatPd counts for allegedly using tJw cash to tip the dancers along with paying late rent, child support and traffic tickets. Roth arc scheduled for .lurn· 1 court lrnarings. 
Boy hires hit man to kill father 
!\Bil.ENE, Texas 
SixtPen-ynar-old Brandon Lund wanted his ratlrnr df~ad. So the t<•nn-ager came up with a solution straight out of the "T.J. IlookE~r" reruns he lovml to watch: Ile hired a hitman. But when Brandon had a change ol' hnart. tho fnrnwr Boy Scout lm.trncd that calling off a hit isn't like canceling a dentist appointment. On Monday, the alleged hit­man, Billy Don Wilson, went on trial on murder charges for allegedly breaking into llw Lund home with five other people and killing Brandon's fatlwr for his $5,000 gun rollPction in I 998. Brandon was also slaslwd with a knifo but ·survived. "When you sot out to find cold-blooded, calculating pPoplP. llw tablPs can turn on you in horri­b]!' ways that can't lw pn:dictPd," said District .-\ttorm•y Janws Eidson. 
Viagra lures men to visit their doctors 

MONTPELIEH, Vt. 
Tlw IH•nPf'its of Viagra arP extnnding lwyo 11 d t lw p i II's a biIit y to n~storl' St)Xual function in men. A physiciirn at the University of' Vermont Coll<•ge of' Medidrw says that the anti-impo­tPncy drug is luring into his of'fice men who usually wouldn't go to see their doctor. :\s a rnsult, they am getting beneficial treat­nwn t that they" may have missed out on. ''Quality of life issues for patients am what mattnr." said Dr. Mark Plante. a urologist and assistant professor of surgery. Plante is not keeping records of his Viagra patients, but says there is no doubt that many men looking for tlrn drug are being lrnlpPd in other ways. In orw case, a man who canw in for the drug describ11d symp­toms that led doctors to discover lw had colon cancer. 
llliihU:f41ikt@MP.• 
Dow 

AMEX: 
715.21
]ONES 
-6.03 -43.84 '.'Jasdaq: 2563.17 


+3.11 '.\YSE: 
612.32 
-2.31 
s~~P 500: 1329.70 

Composite
-0.80 
Volume:


9963.49 796,600,00 


rm,sp,i:sr ilrlSU,i 1~1 fll,~:S'-' f, ,.~1:s cwrt 1)[1.1. CO\ll'l'TI.H 
OEU. • ()hll75 • 1.60 42.25 
.,nw1lH, .IS\< H '-11,1 -X.!\7$0 -2UK .12.2S H;<,llE.-\ll.( 0\11:-.:t f'.<.,<.iS +4.'1425 +2<1. 18 21.1!8 \I< ·1 WIlRll)C '(l\,I !'-< \\'Cll\l • l.11125 +4.24 '13.7., \l({'(Hl',(l!T ( URI' \!SIT +S :1 ISO +.l.lH 172.H 
1:S:'11.1 LORI' l"'Tl. +I.IHKI +I 09 121111 ORA< 'IJ. CORI' ORCI. +{) <>275 +2.Io-29.69 l'lt-\:,,:n I.LllR \1Hll .-\\,lf\,j •0 b2SO +1 51 -12.lKI 
ll 0\t CORI' CO",,t~ -05MK) -2.W 24.94 C\11,I i'-C C\,l!.I 184.HI
+'I.USO •·"--Ui 
¦ UN!TEO STATES 


ASSOCIATED PHESS 
WASHINGTON 
U.S. and Chinese negotiators went back to work today in their down-to­the-wirc push for an agreement to open China's vast market to American exports. \Vhile Chinese officials portrayed an agreement as close, U.S. officials insisted substan­tial differences n~main. 
Both countrins arn struggling to strike a d(~al that would pave the way for China to gain Pntry into the World TradP Organization, hoping an agreement can be announced on Thursday whnn Chinese Premier Zhu Hongji will meet with President Clinton at the White Ilouse. 
In an indication that progress is being made, the discussions were extended into \Vednesday. Chinese Vice Trade Minister Long Yo-ngtu, the head of the Chinese delegation, told reporters late Monday that both sides were ''very close" to a deal. 
But Jay Ziegler, chief spokesman 
for U.S. Trade Representative Charlene Barshefsky, was less opti­mistic, saying substantial differences remain in a number of areas.. 
Zhu, the first Chinese premier to visit the United States in 15 years, was scheduled to arrive later today in Los Angeles for the start of a nine­day American visit. 
\Vhile he would like to return home with an agreement on WTO member­.ship, the administration has contin­ued to insist it will not accept an agreement that docs not open Chinese markets to U.S. manufactur­ers and farmers. 
In addition to the economic con­cerns. the administration faces a tough sales campaign in a Congress upset over allegations of Chinese nuclear espionage and a new crack­down on human rights. 
Zhu, in an interview with Wall Street .Journal executives distributed Monday, accused President Clinton of caving in to Congress and chang­ing the standards for China's entry 

into the WTO. 
He told the newspaper that Chinese concessions had brought a \'VTO agreement within reach, but "due to pressure from the U.S. Congress, the 
U.S. government has shown a change in attitude." Ile callml Washington's new demands "unreasonable" and said China is not inclined to make further concessions. "Make no mis­take." he said. "China is not begging for accession to the \VTO." 
But administration officials insisted Monday the priority is to get an agreement that will open China's vast market, not one that simply meets the Thursday deadline. 
"Hather than looking at a calendar, we're going to look al the details of a deal and we're not going to take anything but a good deal." presiden­tial spokesman Joe Lockhart told reporters. 
The administration sees China's barriers to American exports as the chief cause for a record $57 billion trade deficit last year with China. 
Cuban base prepares for refugees 
ASSOCIATED PttESS 

\VASHINGTON 
\Vhcn refugees from fighting in Kosovo wind up in the hot, desolah-! con­fi ncs of the U.S. naval basP at Guantanamo Bay. Cuba, they will follow the paths of two other refugee groups housed there this. decade. 
The White House announced Tuesday that an airlift of up to 20,000 refugees l'rom the Serbian province "ill begin within a few days, and the Pentagon continued hur­riod prep1:1rations to move 
the refugees and house them at the base. 
The United States also opened the gates of the fenced, fortress-like base to tens of thousands of refugees from political and economic turmoil in Haiti and Cuba. 
The two very difforent experiences ·of those refugee groups offer lessons for the United States this go-around, experts on refugee issues 
said. · 
About 50,000 refugees passed through the camp, at a cost of about $250 million. Most of the 
Haitians housed there 
between 1991 and 1994 
were shipped home when 
relative political order 
returned. Nearly all the 
Cubans housed ·there in 
1994-1996 cnd~d up in 
the United States. 
Neither group was sup­
posed to win entry to the United States. The Clinton administration changed its policy toward the Cubans in part in response to complaints that their lin­gering encampment at ·Guantanamo had become less like a humanitarian gesture and more like punishment, said Philip 

Brenner, a Latin America specialist at American University. 
It is generally true that refugees are less eager to go home the farther they get from their homeland and the longer they stay away, State Department and Pentagon officials acknowledge. 
But they and refugee workers outside the gov~ crnment note. that Kosovar nationalism is strong, and that the refugees arc largely women and children, who will want to be reunited with men left bohind. 



---··--·

l\f 
n,, 
l 
l 
i 
page 6 The Observer• NEWS Wednesday, April 7, 1999 
Join us for the ThirdAnnualRetreatfor lesbian, gay, and bisexual undergraduate students, their friends, and supporters. 
¦ NETHERLANDS 

Lockerbie bombing suspects arraigiled
!l 
H 
Associated Press . Names of each of the vic­will serve their sentences in The U.N. Security Council
:l 
tims .-including 189 Glasgow's Barlinnie jail. said it would consider lifting CAMP ZEIST Americans -were read Scotland's highest-security the sanctions altogether if 
One by one, the names of aloud to the men at Camp prison. Libya publicly renounces ter­all 270 victims of the 1988 Zeist1 a deserted U.S. air They face up to life impris-rorism and complies with Pan Am jet explosion were base 30 miles southeast of onment; Scotland has no other U.N. demands. read aloud Tuesday to two Amsterdam where the trial death penalty. Italy's Foreign Minister Libyan suspects charged will be held, said Susan In an attempt to reproduce Lamberto Dini became the with planting the suitcase Stewart, chief spokesman for the conditions they would first high-ranking foreign bomb that ripped the plane Scotland's government. face in Scotland, the two official to fly into Libya after apart. Al-Megrahi, 46, and men were held overnight in years of sanctions; 
Suspected former intelli­Fhimah. 42, are charged temporary cells constructed Arab airlines announced gence agents Abdel Basset with murder, conspiracy to to resemble the inside of a they are resuming flights, Ali al-Megrahi and Lamen commit murder and viola· Scottish police station. with Egypt's national carrier Khalifa Fhimah were finger­tions of international avia­They were expected to be planning a flight to Tripoli printed. photographed and tion security laws. moved later Tuesday to the on Wednesday. 
l. 
zation," said Jacob some knocks, but this is an that we don't know about," dent, were introduced to the Heidenreich, GSC vice presi­issue where we are right." said Graham. council for the 1999-2000
GSU 

dent. "Perhaps giving up Other opinions were At the close of the GSC term. autonomy was the issue that expressed as to the way in meeting, the new president "We're going to try to make
continued from page 1 

led to this decision." which the decision was han­and vice president for the this an even better place," said we're not going to listen "There is a point where you dled and how the University upcoming term were intro­Canalas said. to discussion." have to say 'Dammit, we're community was informed of duced to the council. "I am excited and looking 
"This decision could be the right, you're wrong, "' said the decision. Maria Canalas, the new forward to everything we arc Church not wanting to give up Borman. "We may have to "Because this was so secret, president and Jacob going to do this upcoming control to an outside organi-stick our necks out and take I wonder what else is done Heidenreich, new vice presi-year," Heidenreich said. 
Drugs 
continued from page 1 
Americans found with the same amount of illegal nar­cotics as non-African Americans. 
One audience member said that court judgments seemed to be much more punitive with African American found in possession than with members of any other race in the same situation. 
"We have a strong percep­tion of criminal unfairness in drug control policy. and you have our pledge that we will continue to work on it," Mccaffrey offered. 
gave DNA samples Tuesday. one day after Libya surren­dered them for trial in the ·Netherlands under Scottish 
la.w. 
The two men were then 
separately arraigned in 
Arabic and English on 
charges contained in a 1991 
U.S.-British indictment 
accusing them of bombing 
Flight 103 over Lockerbie, 
Scotland, on Dec. 21, 1988. 
The suspects said nothing 
more than "yes" in Arabic 
when asked to confirm their 
names. 
They will have a chance to .enter a plea when the trial gets under way. 
Scottish authorities now 
have until April 15 to for­
mally. commit them to trial 
before three Scottish High 
Court judges. 
Under Scottish law, their 

trial should start 110 days later, However, lawyers for the two men were expected to request an extension to give them more time to. pre.; pare tl:tetr defense,· which .. could delay the trial's start by six months to a year, 
Stewart said. 
Once the trial gets under 
way, it is expected to take a 
year .or longer. 1f convicted, 
the suspects -both of whom 
insist they are innocent ­
holding ceUs where they will . U.nder. a treaty with the stay for the duration of the Dutch., Camp Zeist will be trial. considered Scottish soil for 
The two will have access to the duration of the trial. an exercis'e room and a .Scottish police officers prayer room complete with a patrolled the grounds with compass to help them face iµachine guns and attack east, toward Mecca in Saudi dogs Tuesday, Arabia, a holy city Muslims Work will now begin to turn to when they pray each ., fonvert the base's former day. The ScQtS even hung a .'.);..:.hool into a secure court­sign renamingthe air base m,"r"oom and a hospital into "Her Majesty's Prison, accommodation for court Zeist... staff and media. 
After their surrender The total cost for readying Monday. the United Nations the venue and holding the suspended sanctions that trial -. an estimated $200 had punished Libya since million -will be shared by 1992 for failing to surrender Britain and the United the suspects. States. 
Got News? Call The Observer at 631-5323 and fill us 
•
1n. 

.ould you like to DISCUSS 
~--------------------------------­
I I I I I I I I I I I I 

:----------April16-17, 1999----------i 
I 
___._

• Explore your gifts and the milestones in your life ./ _,---.......... 
........ 
('Applications due\

• Meet new people 
', Friday, April 9th/' 
........ /

• Discuss how we are all called to fallow Christ 
----.--­

• Examine ways to reach out to the ND/ St. Mary's community I 
. 
For more information or to register, please call:

• Student-led •Student talks Alyssa: 4-1277 IMtt: 4-3668 
Tami: 1-3016 Email: schmitz.8@nd.edu 


• Conversation • Prayer Applications available @Campus Ministry: (?MPUS 103 Hesburgh Library or 112 Badin Hall 
MINISTRY 
.. 
Wednesday, April 7, 1999 The Observer. CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Norris shares basis for book 
By ALISON HEINZ and religion and was pleased to discover a News Writer wonderful sense of humor, she said. At the time she wrote "The Cloister Walk," 
Pod and author Kathleen Norris described Norris wasn't sure how the novel would fare. lwr ,•xperiences living in a monastic community "I can't imagine who's going to want to read which s·erved as the basis of her book, "The this," Norris said she thought to herself. Cloister Walk," Tuesday. The book has led Norris to experiences w.ell 
Norris, a married woman with a Protestant beyond the monastery gates. After the publica­background. found herself tion of "The Cloister Walk," drawn to the monastery of St. she was invited to the national .John's Abbey in Minnes;,ta. shn basketball championship.
'ILEARN MORE AB<JUT PEO­
said, and spent two extended "My favorite place that 'The rnsidencies. PLE BY SLIPPING INTO Cloister Walk' has led me was 
"EvPn when it makes no sense THE BACKGROUND, MORE OR the final game of the 1997­at all, I will pursue it," slw said 1998 NBA Championship: the ol' hi•r unlikely situation. LESS INVISIBLE. Chicago Bulls against the New 
Throughout tlw novel. Norris York Knicks," said Norris. 
citns her observations of the St. A self-proclaimed "sports John's Abbey monks and their K4TIILEEN NORRIS nerd," Norris's writing led her lifestyle. POET AND AUTIIOR to correspond with former 
"I learn morn about people by Bulls coach Phil Jackson after slipping into the background. he r<>ad her book "Dakota." morn or less invisible" said Jackson claimed to have been Norris. reading "The Cloister Walk" during the 1997 
She admitted that her first fmv days at the season. mmrnstery \Vere intimidating but that she was "I'd like to think that I am at least some­Pncouraged by 'tlrn monks' kindness. what responsible for that season," said Norris. 
Onn~ stw became better acquainted with the Norris participate in a poetry reading nwn. slw began to ask them about their lives Wednesday evening at Notre Dame. 
Recycle The Observer. 

THE PERFECT COUPLE. NOW JUST $1.99. 
Right n<JIN,America's Favorite &.uW, theWHOPPER:andamediumorderofthe KING OF FRIESN are only $1.99. Hurry in, because although they're perfect together, this deal won't last a lifetime. 
The Huddle • Lafortune Student Center 
~ 
BURGER 

ICING It just tastes better.~ 
FOR A LIMITED TIME ONLY. PRICE AND PARTICIPATION MAY VARY. 
C1999 IIURGER KING CORPORATION THE BURGER KING CORPORATION IS THE EXCLUSIVE LICENSEE OF THE KING OF FRIES AND •tT JUST TASTES BETTER" TRADEMARKS ANO THE REGISTERED WHOPPER ANO BUN HALVES LOGO TRADEMARKS. 
www.burgerking.com 
Army ROTC cadet, prof earn honors 
Special to The Observer 

Army ROTC cadet leaders from six Indiana universities were honored Tuesday by the Indiana House and Senate. The concurrent resolution will recognize the value of the ROTC programs at Indiana universities and colleges and congratulate the respective cadet leaders on their many accomplishments. 
Those being honored included Cadet Lieutenant Colonel John Curry from Notre Dame. 
The cadets along with their professor of military sciences were introduced and a resolution was read in the Indiana House of Representatives. A similar ceremony took place in the Senate foUowing the House presentation. 
''It is a tremendous honor for the Indiana Legislature to recognize our cadets and our missoin ofcommissioning the future leadership of the Army," said Lieutenant Colonel Mike Edwards, professor of military science at Notre Dame. "These future Army officers are a great credit to themselves and to the programs they represent. They're great Americans answering their country's call." 
New appointee joins COBA's MBA program 
Special to The Observer the business colleges ranked 
in the magazine's second 
Lee Junkans has been 25. Notre Dame ranks appointed director of career eighth in the same survey development in the Master's with a $54,000 differential. of Business Administration Junkans earned a bache­[M BAJ program of Notre lor's degree in business Dame's College of Business administration from the Administration. University of Wisconsin­
Junkans served for the Whitewater and an MBA past six years has assistant from Bald win-Wall ace dean for career services at College in Berea, Ohio. the University of Rochester's MBA placement services William E. Simon Graduate at Notre Dame will be School of Business enhanced significantly when Administration and for the the Doermer Career previous eight years at Duke Development Center is com­University's Fuqua School of pleted later this year. Business. Underwritten with a gift 
A survey in the April 5 from Richard and Mary issue of Business \,\leek Louise Doermer of Fort showed that under Junkans' Wayne, Ind., the center will direction Rochester has a include 11 interview rooms, salary differential (the dif­a conference room, break ference between what a stu­room and state-of-the-art dent earned before and recruiting software and after earning an MBA) of videoconverencing technolo­$65,000, the highest among gy. 
Speak your mind. Use Observer classifieds. 
0C?[f @~lDJ[;)CD© CtCDill~ffi[b 
Saturday. April 10 at the College Football Hall of Fame 

On Sale next week Must be 21 


page 8 The Observer• NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, April 7, 1999 
Gore removes questions for kids from Web site 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Vice President Al Gore moved his campaign onto the Internet, but only after strip­ping his Web site of questions asking chil­dren for t h e i' r names, e­m a i I addresses and zip codes -a practice t h a t Gore Congress last year decided to outlaw. 

Gore's campaign removed questions in the "Just for Kids" section of its Web site less than one hour before it was published Tuesday on the Internet, after The Associated Press raised questions about them during a preview for news organizations. 
A privacy law signed by the 

President Clinton last year generally prohibits such questions to children on com­mercial \Veb sites unless companies first obtain a par­ent's permission. The new law, however. doesn't take effect until 200 I. 
The Federal Trade Commission said Tuesday it docsn't consider a campaign Web site to be commercial and subject to the new law. But privacy groups suggested the law might apply to any site with a ".com" Web address such as Gore's. 
As originally designed, Gore's Internet site offered children the opportunity to receive campaign materials electronically if they submit­ted their first and last name, e-mail address and zip code. They also could send Gore questions via e-mail. 
The front page of his \\Teb site also included a link to a privacy statement with tips 
for protecting children. such as getting parents' permission before giving out personal information. 
While contending that the questions didn't violate the new privacy law. Gore's cam­paign officials decided any­way to remove them all. except for asking children their first name. 
Kids can still electronically send questions to Gore, who promised to reply to one or two each day on the Web. The campaign also added a warn­ing for kids to "PLEASE ask your parents if it is OK to give us the following information before you submit questions.'' 
Gore's campaign manager. Craig Smith, said he ordered the changes after talking with lawyers and considering his · own feelings as a father. Smith's own children helped work on Gore's "Just for Kids" pages. 
Gore has been a strong sup­

porter of consumer privacy on the Internet. In a speech last spring, he described chil­dren as "the most vulnerable and sometimes the most will­ing to innocently disclose information when they are online." 
The campaign Web site gaffe occurred as an impor­tant national privacy confer­ence was opening here. Gore has repeatedly warned Internet companies they will face tough new privacy laws unless they can adequately protect consumer privacy online. 
"It is important that the vice president's office set a good example, so I commend them for making the changes," said Kathryn Montgomery, presi­dent.of the Washington•based Center for Media Education. The group lobbied the White House last year on behalf of the children's privacy law. 
The law was prompted by 
an FTC study last year of 1,400 ·web sites showing that the vast majority fail to tell visitors how they use person­al information they collect. 
At one site it didn't identify. the FTC said, children were asked to give their name, address. e-mail address. age and whether they ever received gifts of stocks. cash. savings bonds or certificates of deposit. 
Some sit<is included cartoon characters asking children for e-mail addresses. Others use games, contests and offers· of free merchandise to entice children to give information about themselves and their families. 
Gore recently drew ridicule when he said in an interview that he helped create the Internet, a remark he later blamed on being tired. He has been a strong supporter of federal spending to boost technology. 

Study: Teen smokers face increased risk of lung cancer 
Associated Press smoking at any age is aged 30 to 39 showed that 62 The healthy lung tissue was started smoking, not how long 
unhealthful. percent had tried smoking by tested for the number of DNA or how much, Wieneke said. 
WASHINGTON "It looks like it is the age the age of 16, and 24.9 percent alterations per 10 billion cells. Former smokers who startnd 
Permanent genetic changes when smoking starts that is had taken up the habit perma­Some alterations occur with at before their 15th birthdaysthat forever increase the risk important," Wieneke said. "It nently by that age. age, but the number of gene had an average of 164 genetic of lung cancer occurs in teen­didn't matter if they were About 3 miBion teen-agers changes was much higher alterations. Ex-smokers who agers who smoke. even if they heavy or light smokers -what now smoke, the government among smokers -and highest started between age 15 and· 17 quit later in life. And the mattered is that they started estimates. And about a third of of all among those who started had an average of 115 alter­younger the smoking starts, young." all smokers will die of smok­smoking at a young age, ations. the more damage is done. Earlier studies have indicat­ing-related illnesses, including Wieneke said. Among ex-smokers who did­
That's the conclusion of a ed that young smoking stunts lung and other types of can­For nonsmokers, there were n't start smoking until after study published today in the the lungs' full development and cers, heart disease, stroke, 32 DNA alterations per 10 bil­they were 20, however. the Journal of the National Cancer increases the risk of breathing emphysema and chronic pul­lion cells. For current smokers, DNA alternations averaged 81, Institute. problems later in life. Studies monary obstruction. the alterations were about fewer than half that of people 
The research, coming at a have also shown that smoking In their study, Wieneke and eight times higher. who started smoking earliest. time when more than a third of in the teen years is more his colleagues tested for DNA The findings were adjusted Such alterations occur when teens are taking up the smok­addictive and that smok£~rs alterations in the nontumor statisticaJly for th(~ number of chemicals in tobacco smoke ing habit, shows "there is who begin young are less likely lung tissue of patients being years smoked and for the fuse with genes in the DNA of something uniquely bad about to break the habit. treated for lung cancer. The amount smoked. lung cnlls. These chemical starting young." said John But Wiencke's study for the group included 57 people who The startling discovery was cumplcxns, called adducts. Wieneke, a genetics expert at first time shows dramatic and were current smokers, 79 who that for former smokers. the cause mutations and signifi­the University of California, enduring DNA damage caused were former smokers and most important factor affecting cantly increase cancer risk, San Franc.is.co, School of by youthful smoking. seven who had never smoked. DNA damage was when they Wieneke said. Medicine, and first author of "This reinforces the idea that the study. we ,need to stop young people 
He said the research gives from smoking, not only from powerful laboratory evidence the addiction standpoint, but of why starting smoking before also from the cancer risk the age of 18 can be particu­standpoint." Wieneke said. larly ha rm fu l to long-term Surveys by the Centers for health. \Viencke said such Disease Control and Prevention youthful smoking on a daily indicate that 34.8 percent of 
basis causns lung damage that high school students were reg­the body cannot repair. He said ular smokers in 1995. That the damage is less likely number rose to 36.4 percent in 
among smokers who start in 1997. their 20s or later. although A CDC survey of smokers 
Exam-Taking* Strategies * in Graduate School 
Come and hear . . . Dr. Dominic Vachon . . . speak on: 
-overcoming academic choking -performance anxiety -techniques to improve 
concentration 

AND MUCH MORE! 
When: 7:30 PM Where: Fischer-O'Hare Grace Community Center, Ap. #7 

helping plan senior week? 
Pick up an application outside room 216 LaFortune 
Return by April 9th 
Brought to you by the Class of2000 C(Juncil 
Wednesday, April 7, 1999 · The Observer• NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Citizens vote in favor of lifting concealed weapons ban 
Associated I'rcss legislators. leader of the Proposition B 
Proposition B resulted from campaign. "This will be a race 
.IEFFEHSON CITY, Mo. failed yearly attempts by pro­that political scientists and 
Missouri voters decided gun lawmakers to pass a con­pundits will mull for years, Tuesday in a close contest cealed-weapons law against a because it's breaking such whether to lift a concealed­threatened veto by weapons ban dating to the Democratic Gov. Mel days of Jesse Jarrn~s. Carnahan. 
'WEDON'T WANT TO 
vVith 6 7 percent of the vote The National Hifle counted, a slight majority of' Association almost single­BE GOING BACK TO voters favored Proposition B, handedly bankrolled the cam­THE OLD WILD WEST DAYS which would lift the ban. The paign for Proposition B ­
WITH EVERYONE WEARING A
sccrntary ol' state's office said providing more tlurn $3.7 mil­the partial tally had 418,6]4 lion. well over 95 percent of GUN.' voting for the proposition and the money behind the mea­413,296 voting against. sure -in what was viewed as 
Tim vote marked tlw first an important test of gun senti­ROBERT iWCCULLOC/l 
time a statn has put the ques­ment in the heartland. .S'T.LOUIS COUN7Y PROSECUTOR tion of concealed weapons to "Since this is the first time tlrn voters. Thirty-one other it's ever been put to a vote, 
statPs allow citizens to carry both sides on this issue are new ground." concealed guns, but those going to learn a tremendous Supporters said allowing measures were enacted by amount," said Fred Myers, a law-abiding people to pack 
Judge reduces tobacco lawsuit 
Associated Press Ilcnlcy asked for -is enough to for the company, had argued 
punish Philip Morris for mis­that Philip Morris wasn't 
SAN FHANCISCO leading the public about the responsible for Henley's decision 
Ajudgc slashed a tobacco law­dangers of smoking and for to smoke and never claimed cig­suit award in half Tuesday, marketing cigarettes to teen­arettes were safe. Ile said there rnducing from $51.5 million to agers. was no evidence she started $2h.;3 million th£i amount Munter also denied the com­smoking or continued to smoke awarded to a former threc­pany's request for a new trial. because of Philip Morris ads. pack-a-day smoker with lung Harry Wartnick, a lawyer for Henley, 52, of Los Angeles, cannir. llcnley, noted that she has the said she became hooked on 
Judgn .John :\1unter said the option of rejecting the reduced Marlboros at age 15 and $50 million punitive m,vard in award and retrying the case. smoked three packs a day until Patricia llnnley's casn was But he said $26.5 million should 1997. after she started suffering nxc1~ssive. be enough to "get a message coughing fits and other health 
Wlwn IIPnll\Y won $51.5 mil­across to Philip Morris and to problems. She was diagnosed lion from Philip Morris in any other company that looks to last year with inoperable lung February, it vvas tlw largest marke! products that kill human cancer. which she says is now in 
. ..

a'vvarcl ever in a tobacco liability bmngs. remission after chemotherapy lawsuit filed by an individual Philip Morris attorney Michael and radiation. 
r 

smokt\r. That was based on $1.5 York said tlrn company planned Iler suit was the first tried in million in compensatory dam­to appeal. California since the repeal of a ages to covpr medical expenses, "There am a f'\umber of very 1987 law that protected tobacco pain and sulforing, and $50 mil­significant and complicated legal companies against suits by indi­lion in punitive damages. issues that need to be resolved vidual smokers. 
Thre1\ other awards in similar by an appellate court," York Last week, an Oregon jury casPs havn bPPn overturned on said. lie decli,wd to spncify any awarded $80.3 million to the app<1al. issu,~s or comment on the family of a Portland man who 
ThP judgi\ said a damagt> judge's criticism of Philip died of lung cancer after smok­award of' $25 million -easily Morris. ing three packs of Marlboros a mon' than tlw $15 million Ms. vVilliam Ohlcmeycr. a lawyer day for 42 years. 
PPE: The Concentration in Philosophy, Politics, and Econo ·cs 
invites applications from undergraduates with special ·interests in the intersecting areas of political philosophy, political theory, and economic analysis. Every year about t,venty highly motivated and talented student are admit­ted to PPE. Check it our to see if it is for you. Many of our students go on to careers in law, public policy, or the academy. If you are looking for 
1. 
an integrated approach to politics and justice, without all the requirements of a second major, and 

2. 
an intellectual community of faculty and students who share your interests, the PPE wants you! 


For more inforn1ation, contact either Professor David O'Connor, Philosophy Dept., 0'Connor.2@nd.edu. or Professor John Roos, Government Dept., Roos. l@nd.edu. For the inside story, you can also contact one of our student advisers, seniors and PPE ve1erans John Schuessler at Schucsslrr. l@nd.edu or Cara Ciuffani at Ciuffani.1@nd.edu. 
For an e-n1ail application, simply send a request to Professor John Roos. l{oos. l@nd.edu. You may also pick up a paper application outside Professor Roos's office. Decio 424. The application deadline is noon on April 12. Acceptances will he announce hy 5 PM April I 2. 
guns would keep the criminals guessing. 
"The honest people of this state need to be able to defend themselves while going from their homes to their businesses," Greg Jeffrey, a spokesman for the Proposition B campaign. 
The other side received just one-fourth the funding but had help from Hillary Rodham Clinton. who recorded a tele­marketing message targeted at women. 
The first lady said Proposition B is "just too dan­gerous for Missouri families." 
St. Louis County Prosecutor Hobert McCulloch was among the law enforcement officers who feared the measure would court trouble: "We 

don't want to be going back to the old \Vild \Vest days with everyone wearing a gun." 
James, the Wild West's most notorious outlaw, was a native of' Kearney. 
Missouri banned concealed weapons in a crackdown on gunslinging in 1875. seven years before James was shot to death in St. Joseph, Mo., by a member of his gang. 
Under Proposition B. state residents will need a second permit to carry a concealed weapon. 
Applicants will have to undergo criminal and mental health background checks. take at least 12 hours of state­approved training and have no violent offenses on their records for at least five years. 
District indicted for test tampering 
Associated Press 
AUSTIN, Texas 
The Austin school district and a deputy superintendent were indicted Tuesday on charges of tampering with 
statewide  tests to  make  
their  students  appear  
smarter.  

"This is not a happy day, but this action gives us the vehicle to try to correct the problems throughout the system which caused these types of violations,'' prose­cutor Ken Oden said.· 
A grand jury handed up 16 indictments against the Austin Independent School District and a 16-count indictment against deputy superintendent Margaret Kay Psencik. 
The district and Psencik 

are accused of tampering with Texa.s Assessment of Academic Skills tests, which are used lo rate and com­pare Texas schools. 
They allegedly altered identification numbers on the tests of 16 students who had performed poorly so that the tests would not be counted. 
.. Proceeding legally against both the individuals and the district itself will give us the chance to seek both personal accountability and improvement in the whole system as well," Oden said. 
1f convicted, the school district could face fines of up to $160,000. The deputy superintendent, Margaret Kay Psencik, could face up to a year in jail. 
Sun,rner Counselor 
or 

Resident Intern 
Waycross Camp and Conference Center, a ministry of the Episcopal Church in Brown County, IN, is seeking resident counselors for an eight week summer camp program. We are also seeking a resident intern for a year-long training program. If you are looking for a challenging way to work with kids in a caring, Christian community, call or e-mail us today. Waycross, 7363 Bear Creek Road, Morgantown, IN 46160. Phone 1-800-786-2267. 
Waycross@reliable-net.net 
LASALLF,. .·:"" :; KSTORE 
,, 

Your source for the best in theological and philosophical books-we can special order any book you need! 
Spring Reading Sale! 
20% OFF EVERY TITLE* APRIL5-9. 
THE lASALLE BOOKSTORE • 234-0003 
237 N. Michigan St. (at LaSalle), downtown 
South Bend. Open I 0-5, Monday -Friday. 
*Except already discounted titles. 




• 

Wednesday, Apr;! 7 1999
page 10 The Observer• PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
April 1999 

President Malloy, 
The Graduate Student Council has been struggling to understand the reasons behind how the Board of Trustees decision not to include sexual orientation as a trait protected from discrimination could have resulted from a campus whose undergraduate representatives, graduate student representatives, and faculty representatives all officially voted in support of such a change. 
We are saddened that so many members of this University would feel ineffective in their ability to effect change where change is so obviously called for, especially in light ofthe recent resignation of Professor Mark Jordan. We, along with many other members ofthe University community, are struggling to determine what steps totake next in order to ensure that this discussion not end nor the issue die and become something about which the University is ultimately not proud. 
Our hope is that the Board of Trustees would take seriously the concerns of so many who are committed to this issue and speak to the University community as a community ofadults who are willing to engage in conversation so that all sides ofthe issue can be explored in a manner that is consistent with our intellectual purpose and ability. The GSC has traditionally supported the inclusion of sexual orientation in Notre Dame's non-discrimination clause and continues to do so. Below is a resolution that was passed at our most recent Council meeting. We realize our language is strong -this is an issue about which we feel strongly. 
WHEREAS the proposed amendment to include sexual orientation in the non-discrimination clause was debated and subsequently endorsed by the Student Senate, the Graduate Student Council, the Faculty Senate and the Academic Council; 
WHEREAS these bodies decided that the Spirit of Inclusion was not a sufficient guarantee that homosexual students, faculty and prospective faculty would be protected from discrimination by the University, its colleges, and its departments; 
WHEREAS the decision of the Board of Fellows on December 1, was made without input from representatives ofthe Faculty Senate or Academic Council; 
WHEREAS the decision was kept secret from December 1 of last year until the recent Board of Trustees meeting in London, deceiving members ofthe Notre Dame community who took the matter to be a live issue and expended time and money in a campaign in support ofthe amendment; 
WHEREAS the reasons adduced by the Board ofFellows in their report to the Board of Trustees had been effectively rebutted during the November 17 meeting ofthe Academic Council; 
WHEREAS the Board ofTrustees voted to affirm the decision ofthe Board ofFellows; 
WHEREAS the administration of a University should be committed to the intellectual virtues of openness to criticism, a commitment to debate and arguments, and the willingness to entertain views that diverge from ones own prejudices; 
WHEREAS the manner in which the Board of Fellows made this \ decision is inconsistent with such virtues; 
BE IT THEREFORE RESOLVED that the Graduate Student Council expresses extreme disappointment with the decision of the Board of Trustees, especially with regard to the secretive manner by which the issue was decided. 
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the University Administration should take measures toward making itself more accountable to the campus community for its decisions, and implement policies that allow the representative bodies on this carnpus to have some impact with regard to modifying or rnitigating this University's policy ofdiscriminating against sexual minorities. 
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that a public forum on campus which would include undergraduate, graduate and professional students, faculty, staff, representatives of the administration, the Board of Trustees, and the Board of Fellows should be established some time ihis year. This forum would provide an opportunity for Board members to elaborate on their decision making process, to be held accountable for their decisions, and to allow students and faculty the opportunity to ask questions and voice their objections concerning the decision. 
The Graduate Student Council 
Wednesday, April 7, 1999 
The Observer• NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Survey: College frosh conservative Party donors buy 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 

Aside from the predictable bags of unwashed clothes and as yet-to-be-read books, this year's college freshmen may have also brought home some surprises for spring break: conservative views on casual sex. abortion and other issues. 
A comprelrnnsive survey of this year's college freshmen finds a host or areas where young adults arc taking dccid­Pdly diffcnrnt turns on issues than previous g1merations of studrnlls. 
From the lowest support cvPr for casual sex and kecp­ing abortion legal, to ques­ti o n s of I a \V a n d o r d e r a n d Pven tlwir goals in life, the differences arc sometimes wide. 
"\VI' havl' mcmbtirs who are morP conservativP than their parPnts," says Chris Gillott. ('. h a ir m an o f' Pe 1111 sy Iv an ia Statfi University's Young Americans for Freedom. 
Gillotl says some of' his peers go horne and "come out of tlw conservative closet" to tlwir families, igniting heated discussions on topics f'rom Social S1~curity to affirmative artion. 
Young adults am looking for a return to religious or more traditional moral values after tlw legacy left by the baby boomers, he says. 
A few examples: 
•Only 40 p(ffccnt of fresh­men agree that it's OK for two 1woplc who like each other to hav1~ sex, even if they have only known each other a short whiln. 
That's d<n\'n from 42 per­rl'nt in 1997. and an all-time high of 52 percent in 1987, according to the study by the II ig he r Ed u catio n B11 sea r ch lnstitutP at tlw UnivPrsity. of California, Los Angel,is. 
•In 1970, 56 percent of the 
f'rt~sh men surveyed showed 
strong opposition to capital 
punishment. By 1998, less 
than a quarter of them 
believed the death penalty 
should be abolished. 
Seventy-three percent of 
freshmen said there is too 
much concern for criminals ­
an almost 50 percent increase 
since the early 1970s when 
only about half of those sur­
veyed felt that way. 
•Only half of this year's fresh men backfld efforts to keep abortion legal -a record low figure after six years on the decline. Support for laws protecting abortion peaked in 1990 at 65 percent. 
"We have pro-choice stu­dents on our campus who still say they would never have an abortion." says Hyan Gruber, a senior at the University of Wisr,onsin, Madison. who used to head the school's college Republicans. "Even if they don't want to push their mes­sage on others, there is less tolerance on a personal level." 
Wendy Shalit, a 23-year-old author who lashes out against random college hookups and sexual encounters in her new book, says it's no surprise young adults are turning away from the values of the genera­tions that preceded them. 
"Their parents are the ones who sort of believed in this liberation through promiscuity and experience," said Shalit, whose book, "A Return to Modesty: Discovering the Lost Virtue," came out in January. But some kids today are­"cmbracing the codes of con­duct that their own parents rejected." 
Shalit pointed to the rise in ballroom dancing as one sign of how young adults are look­ing for new ways to relate to. C'ach other. 
Even views on the grand schemP of things can shift considerably in a few genera-
lions. 

Nearly three-quarters of the Class of 2002 consider being 
Camelot weekend 
well-off financially among their highest objectives. 
Their parents had different goals when they were fresh­men: In the late 1960s, more than 80 percent wanted to develop "a meaningful philos­ophy of life." 
Today, only 40 percent of incoming college students find that objective compelling. 
A record low 26 percent of freshmen believe that "keep­ing up to date with political affairs" is a very important or 
Associated Press 
HYANNIS PORT, Mass. 
For $100,000, Democratic Party donors will be able to spend a Camelot weekend at the storied Kennedy family compound in Hyannis Port where Jack, Bobby and Teddy used to play touch football. 
For decades, Democrats have happily given money to visit Kennedy 

"For some people, an affilia­tion with the Kennedys is sort of a life goal." 
Patrick Kennedy was appointed to head the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee in the fall after throwing a clambake at the Hyannis Port com­pound. The event was believed to have raised at least 
$250,000. 
During this 
election 

essential life goal. homes and help ' IT'S SORT OF IRRE­cycle, the In 1966, interest in politics out the latest SISTIBLE, IF YOU CAN committee was at its height, with a Kennedy run­hopes to 
ning for office. . AFFORD IT, TO GET A PEEK
record 58 percent of freshmen raise $ 50 considering important in their But the INTO HOW THE ROYAL FAMI-· million by lives. $100,000-a­offeringhead retreat on LY LIVFS AND PLAYS.'
But some say these results retreats in don't necessarily signify apa­Cape Cod. posh places thy among today's students. scheduled for DAN PAYNE to wealthy Instead, activism and civic­September, donors and 
BOSTON POLITICAL CONSULTANf dinners with
marks the first

mindedness may turn up in 
different forms, like volun­
teering and community ser­
vic'e. 

"These activities are politi­
cal in the sense that they are 
trying to change the system 
we have," says Kendra Fox­
Davis, a 1998 UCLA college 
graduate who now is vice 
president of the U.S. Student 
Association in Washington. 
She added that while stu­
dents today may not be as 
likely to demonstrate or 
march in protest like their 
parents, young adults are 
active on a host of issues from 
decreasing tuition to raising 
attention to sweatshop labor 
conditions. 
The 1998 freshmen norms are based on the responses of '275,811 students at 469 of the ·nation's two-and four~vear 
time the home will be used for a major. national campaign contribu­tion drive. Guests will have to find a hotel room somewhere down the road to sleep in, however. 
It's part: of a fund-raising drive led by Rep. Patrick Kennedy, D-R.I., to retake the House. Kennedy, 31, the youngest son of Sen. Edward 
M. Kennedy, D-Mass., is head of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. 
"It's sort of irresistible, if you can afford it, to get a peek into how the royal family lives and plays,'' said Dan Payne, a Boston political consultant. 
t () p 
Democrats. 

Critics said the idea demonstrates the need to change the nation's campaign finance system. 
"When we have a sys tern that's democracy for rent, I certainly can't be surprised when I seen the Hyannis Port compound for rent. too," said Meredith McGehee, spokes­woman for the clean-govern­ment organization Common Cause. 
Erik Smith, a spokesman for the Democratic Congressional Committee, said Democrats want to reform campaign finance laws but cannot do so without a majority in Congress. ' 
colleges and universities. • 
Got News?
Colleges were chosen to rep­resent a cross-section of the student population nation­wide. 
Call 

'Ehe 6bserver at 631-5323. 



The Office of Multicultural 
Student Affairs has openings for energetic Student Interns. Must enjoy interaction with students, faculty and administrators. Computer knowledge and reliability are essential ! ! 
APPLICATIONS ARE AVAILABLE AT: 
The Office of Multicultural Student Affairs 
210 LaFortune Student Center 1-6841 
DEADLINE FOR APPLICATIONS: APRIL 7, 1999 


Work approx. 10 hrs. a week 
Must have knowledge of Macs & related Mac programs Prefer Sophomores Please apply in person by 16 April 1999 

in the Reilly Center, 346 O'Shag 

Wednesday, April 7, 1999

page 12 The Observer• INTER.NATIONAL NEWS 
¦ NORWAY 

Arctic trekkers hit 
-string of bad luck 
!i 
I 
l 
Associated Press 
OSLO The only thing that went right 

for five students on a wilderness
l 
trek on the Arctic islands of Svalbard was that they survived at all. 
Their string of bad luck start­ed when three of their four snowmobiles broke down due to extreme cold. That forced them to set up camp, only to be hit by an unexpected storm. Then one of their tents was shredded by a polar bear in what was consid­ered a bear-free area, Bjocrn Terje Oftedal, 23, said Tuesday. 
"It's pretty serious to end up with a polar bear in your tent," said Oftedal in an interview broadcast by Norwegian radio on Tuesday. "You suffer a cer­tain amount of fear, a certain anxiety." 
Two tourists have been killed by polar bears on Svalbard since 1996. 
¦ CmtE 

The five men set off on March 27 for a week's trek on Svalbard. about 300 miles north of the Norwegian mainland. They had plenty of supplies, three bear-rifles and an emer­gency transmitter. 
All of them were experienced outdoorsmen, but Oftedal said no one could be prepared for such bad luck. On Friday, they were headed home from Atom Mountain when their snowmo­biles broke down. They set up camp at an elevation of about 3,600 feet. 
"We had to wait out the weather," said Oftedal, adding 
· that winds began blowing at storm force. He said in the mid­dle of the night he woke up to shouts because "the bear had been in the other tent and tore a big opening." 
They scared off the bear with a flare gun, he said, and the next morning decided to radio for help. 
¦ SOUTH AFRICA 

Officer tells of yoµth slayings 
Associated Press 
JOHANNESBURG 
A top apartheid army. offi­cer on Tuesday describedin chilling detail how he autlm­rized tbeJ9$6 slayingirofJ0youths \.Yti;() were drugged and then blown to pieces with explosives. 
Abraham Joubert. the for­mer special forces comman­der of the South African National Defehse Force, told the amnesty committee of'the Truth and Reconciliation Commission that he agreed to the plan without kncrwing the identities of the anti-­apartheld activist victirns. 
The qommissio:(1 .... was fonned fo probe 'human rights abuses during· apartheid after President Nelson Mandela's African National Congress won 1-994's first all-race elec'." tions. 
Joubert's testimony in 

Pretoria further undermined claim~ l:>y top apartheid lead" ers thatthey did not order or know.of atrocities committed by their underlings. . He.ad~d to Botswaua for ANG .qiilita.ry trai11ing,.th~ 10 youtlt.,>were tricked into accepting· a ride with a police undercover agent who got them drunk. 
Joubert described how he approved .the plan and a requestfor drugs submitted by ~haFtNaude, then com~ mander of. the special . forces unit in the province. 
The drugs "could have come fr.om ... police laboratow ries. twas told that their drink~ would be spiked,'' Joupertsaid. . 
Four spedal forces opera­tives met the vehicle near the border at. Niotverdiend and injected t'he drunk youths with.the.tlrug that left them uncohscious. 
They then placed the 

youths in a mini bus packed with explosives and pushed it over an incline, where it exploded. 
Joubert told the amnesty committee the killing~ were part ofa, larger planJ() elimi~ nate.. people threatening state security. 
He said police would identi• fy thetargets and the special forces unit helped to capture or to kill them. . 
He s<lid he did not have any records about the operation because it was "too sensitive to puton paper," 
Five other officers are also seeking amnesty for the deaths of the "Nietverdiend 10." 
The threat of prosecuHon prodded former security force members to seek amnesty, which can be granted if the panel finds th~r~ was political motive and. that the applicants are telling the full truth. 

l' 
Pinochet extradition will face Chilean opposition 
Associated Press 
SANTIAGO 
The Chilean government plans to ask Britain's home sec­retary to block the extradition of former dictator Gen. Augusto Pinochet to Spain, the Foreign 

',l 
Ministry said Tuesday. 

' 
The ministry confirmed that it would file the request with the British official, Jack Straw. A ministry cited "juridical and political" considerations but refused to discuss details. 
Although he didn't mention the request specifically, Foreign 

,) 
Minister Jose Miguel lnsulza outlined what could be Chile's legal argument to block the handover of Pinochet to Spain, where he faces 33 charges of torturn. 
Insulza told the Santiago daily El Mercurio that the International Convention against Torture, mentioned in 
1111 1111 
¦1rld. 

).l 
PIIIII 

' 
r1c1c11

! 
'/ 
I 
! 
I 
''-, 1 
TIii

! 
_, 
lb11rv1r. 

the case against Pinochet, states that torture crimes should be tried in the country where they were committed ­or where the accused is. 
That would give Chile and Britain precedence over Spain to try Pinochet. Pinochet was arrested Oct. 16 in London on a warrant by Spanish judge Baltasar Garzon, who wants to try him for human rights abus­es committed during his 1973­90 regime. 
An official Chilean report says 3,197 people were killed or had disappeared at the hands of Pinochet's secret police after he toppled elected Marxist presi­dent Salvador Allende in a bloody coup. 
The House of Lords ruled last month that he could only be tried for torture cases occur­ring after 1988, when the Convention was signed by Chile, Britain and Spain. That left only one torture case stand­ing: that of Marcos Quzada, a 17-year-old student who allegedly died under police tor­ture. 
But Spain's judge Garzon quickly filed 32 new accusa­tions of torture reputedly com­mitted after 1988. 

The London High Court has given Straw until April 15 to issue a new ruling on whether to allow Spain to seek Pinochet's extradition. 
lnsulza said a return of Pinochet to Chile for trial would not weaken. but strengthen Chile's young democracy. "We would be able to prove that we are able to solve our problems by ourselves," he said. 
Some 18 lawsuits against Pinochet have been filed by rel­atives of victims or social and labor groups. But prospects of Pinochet trial at home are con­sidered difficult. 
Among the h u rd !es are a 1978 amnesty law issued by Pinochet, continued strong sup­port of the former dictator by Chile's armed forces, and his limited immunity as a scnator­for-life. 
Retired Gen . .Jorge Villarino, one of Pinochet's closest associ­ates, said that bringing Pinochet to trial would be senn by the armed forces as putting the entire military establish­ment on trial. 


If you need to do some catching up or want to get a jump on fall, summer classes at Holy Cross College may be just the ticket. Choose one or both sessions, each offering a v..-ide variety of quality general education courses. And pay our summer tuition rate of just $170 per credit hour. 
Take advantage of exceptionally small classes, a dedicated and caring faculty, and our convenient location just to the west of the University of Notre Dame campus. Credit earned is transferable. And on-campus student housing is available. 
You'll enjoy summer activities even more, knowing that you're also getting ahead in your studies. Write or call Holy Cross College today. Applications for Summer Sessions I and II, as well as for 
Office of Admissions 
P.O. Box 308 • Notre Dame, IN 46S56 

(219) 239-8400, ext. 22 • Fax (219) 233-7 427 
e-mail: vduke@hcc-nd.edu 

.__J 
the 1999 Fall Semester, are now being accepted. 
Session I -May 17 to June 24 Session II -June 28 to August 5 
* HOLY CROSS COLLEGE 

Wednesday, April 7, 1999 
The Observer• INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 13 
¦ CANADA 

Rifle-wielding gunman kills four 
Associated Press 
OTTAWA 
A former employuc of 
Ottawa's transport agency 
shot dead four people at the 
city's main bus garage 
Tuesday, then killed himself 
with his high-powered rifle, 
police said. 
The shooting occurred in mid-afternoon in a cavernous garage housing about 500 buses. 

Authorities said they had spoken to the gunman's fami­ly, but did not immediately release his name or the names of the others killed. 
Two other people were hos­pitalized with bullet wounds, police said. 
"He was coming here to make some trouble. He lost it," said Sylvain Couture. a mechanic who witnessed the shooting. 
A transport agency spokesman, Mike Sheflin, said 
there were about 100 workers 
in the immediate area of the 
shooting and there was a rush 
to get out when the announce­
ment was made to evacuate. 
"It's a great trauma," he 
s~d. · 
The area around the garage 
-an industrial section in the 
Canadian capital's cast end ­
was sealed off by police. 
Couture said he saw the 
man shoot two people inside 
the stockroom. 
"One guy yelled over the PA, . 'There's a guy with a gun, call 
911."' 

Garage attendant Marcel 
Gleason said there was a rush 
to get out of the building once 
the gun shots were heard. 
"They told us to walk out 
and everybody was running 
out." he said. "Everybody was 
scared. We heard the shots." 
The shutdown of the bus 
garage caused transit delays 
in parts ofthe city as scores of 
routes were affected. 
Associated Press 
KIGALI 

Carrying candles through a 
foggy night, thousands of 
Hwandans gathered Tuesday to 
remember family and friends 
who fell victim to the 1994 
genocide. 
A woman's cry pierced the packed Amahoro soccer stadi­um, where survivors read aloud accounts of the first mas­sacres of more than 500,000 minority Tutsis and politically moderate llutus on orders of the former extremist Hutu gov­ernment. 
"You may even be peaceful somewhere, resting with God, but you left us with sorrow and full graves," a survivor choked reading a poem dedicated to his slain family of seven. 
On April 6, 1994, a plane car­rying Rwandan President Juvenal Habyarimana was downed while approaching the Kigali airport in what would serve as a signal for Hutu sol­diers, officers and militiamen to take out death lists and hunt down Tutsis and those Hutus opposed to extremism. 
¦ RWANDA 
Genocide victims remembered 
Hutu mobs, armed with 
machetes, sticks, knives and 
guns. set up roadblocks across 
the country to identify the flee­
ing Tutsis. Once caught, they 
were hacked to death. 
Others were killed after being 
herded into churches, schools. 
''7"ou MAY EVEN BE I PEACERJL SOME­
WHERE, RESTING WITH Goo, 
BUR YOU LEIT US WITH SOR­
ROW AND flJLL GRAVES.' 
RWANDAN GENOODE SURVIVOR 
government buildings and hos­pitals, where many Hutu doc­tors refused to treat Tutsis bleeding from machete wounds. 
On Wednesday, the week of national mourning will culmi­nate in a mass reburial of 20,000 Tutsis slaughtered at a Roman Catholic church in 

Kibeho, 60 miles south of 
Kigali. 
Similar ceremonies will be 
held nationwide, where victims 
exhumed from mass graves will 
receive propflr burials. 
The Tutsi-led Rwandan 
Patriotic Front, consisting of 
Tutsi exiles who had fled ethnic 
persecution under former Hutu 
government since Rwanda's 
independence in 1962, won 
power in July 1994 and ousted 
the former extremist govern­
ment after 90 days of killing. 
The group then formed the government of national unity, comprising of both Hutus and Tutsis, and promised national reconciliation and justice for genocide survivors. 
On Saturday. Rwandan Vice President Paul Kagame said his country -shattered by the 1990-1994 civil war, subse­quent genocide and the flight of 2 million Hutu refugees who returned ,from exile in 1996 ­had made a remarkable recov­ery. 
"But there is still a long way to go, particularly in bringing together all groups of Rwandans," Kagame said. 






~"l Te take a lot of pride in gainingVVhigh marks from the major rating  operating expenses that are among the lowest in the insurance and mutual fund  
services. But the fact is, we're equally  industries.***  
proud of the ratings we get every day from  With TIAA-CREF, you'II get the right  
our participants. Because at TIAA-CREF,  choices-and the dedication-to help you  
ensuring the financial futures of the educa­ achieve a lifetime offinancial goals. The  
tion and research community is something  leading experts agree. So does Bill.  
that goes beyond stars and numbers.  TIAA-CREF can help you build a com­ 
We became the world's largest retire­ fortable, financially secure tomorrow, with  
ment organization by offering people a  tax-deferred annuities, mutual funds, I¼,  
wide range of sound investments, a  insurance and more.  
commitment to superior service, and  To find out more, call us at 1800 842-2776.  

www.tiaa-cref.org 
ii Ensuring the future for those who shape it.SM 
•Soun:c, Mom,ngs,u, Inc., Principia v.,.;,,1,u A,.uin,s/I.ift 12/31/98. •-Th<,c top rotinp uc based on TIAA'• exceptional linancial otn:ngth. clainu·pa)'ing ability and O\'ttall .""'.""ling pciionnaru:c . ..,SUJ1'Urtt & 1wr; 1.,.,.,.,.., RMiy J!.11,.Jym, 1998; Lipper Analynal Services, l1><., Li11""Di,.,ur,' A...iyr;,,.; Do,., 1998 (Qu>rteri)·): TIAA-CREF Individual and lnm,utional S.rvtoo1. loc. diaiributn CREF urtificaic-1 and incc-ruta in tiw TIAA Re-al~ Account. Tea.cM'n ~raonal lnw1ton Sc-rv,cea, Inc. diambutn the TIAA-CREF Mutual Funda. 
for mott completr information. it"tClilldint chargn a:nd u:pe,nvt,, pl«-ut-call fOt' p1'1.'.l&pKtUaN. Rud thnn c&nf-..a.lly befOff ~ i~n•_t or w~ moMy. ~o R"qUn.t ~~ct\llft, call J 800 8-42-2733. ext. 5509. lnvettnwnt• in •l"uritifl auch u tru.1twJ fund. and v&n&blr ,1:nnuitlt-1 ~ •uht«t to A"rtam nalu 1ndvd:i"I the pou.1bk lou of pnnc1pal. 1/99 
YOUR CAREER 
~ ,.....,d,"-==:c­

~. -COME TO THE SELF-ASSESSMENT WORKSHOP! 
Four part workshop -Attendance to all is strongly encouraged Limited space -Sign up in advance at Career and Placement Services (1-5200) 
When: Thursday, March 18, 4:00 -5:15 p.m. 
Where: DeBartolo Hall -Room 213 
When: Thursday, March 25, 4:00 -5:15 p.m. Wednesday, March 31, 4:00-5:15 p.m. Thursday, April 8, 4:00 -5:15 p.m. Where: DeBartolo Hall -Room 116 
Presented by Olivia Williams, Assistant Director 
Career and Placement Services 


.. 
•· 1·· 
l 
.. 
I 
t 
ii. 
i/1
I' 

., 
l l 
I 
j 
I 


pag--: 14 

THE OBSERVER 
NornE DAME OF.F.ICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
1999-2000 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Micl1dle Krupa 
MANAGING EDITOR 
M. Shannon Ryan 
A.~SISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
Laura Petelle 
NEWS EDITOR ...............................Tim Logan VllWPOINT EDITOR .............Colleen Gaughen SrORTS EDITOR .......................... 13 rian 1-:essler SCENE EDJTOR......................Michael Vanegas SAINT MARY'S EorroR.......Collcen McCarthy PHOTO EDITOR ........................Kevin Dalum 
BUSINESS MANAGER 
Dave Rogero 

ADVEllTISING MANAGF.ll....................... Bryan Lurz An DFSIGN MANAGER ...............Kenneth Kearney SYSTEMS MA!'IAGER........................Michad Revers CoNTROI.LER ..................................Timorhy Lane GRAPHICS EDITOR..............................Joe Mudler WEB ADMINISTRATOR.......................Erik Kushto 
l'hc Oh,crvcr is rhc indcp<:ndcnt newspaper puhli,hcd hy the ,rudents of the Uniwrsity ofNotre Dame du I.IC and SJint !\!Jry's C.,lkgc. It doc, not ncccs.,arily rdle<·1 the polides of the aJminima,ion ofeirher institution. The news is reported as accur01dy and objectivdy as pos.sihlc. Unsigned c.!iwrial, r<prcscnc the opinion of ,he majority ofth<· Ediror•in-Chid'. Managing Edimr. A.~siswnt Managing Editor and department <'<foors. Commenratics. lencrs and columns presmt ,he views oftht· authors and not ncccs,arily those ofThe Observer. Vi<-wpoinr spa~c is available to all members ofthe Notre Dame/Saint Mary•s community and t<> all readers. The fr« exprt"-ston ofvarying opinions through letters i, encouraged. 
Contacting The Observer 
Edimr-i 11-Chief 631-4542 Managing Editor/Assistant ME 631-4541 New, 63l-5323 Viewpoinr 631-5303 Spom 63 l-4543 Scene 631-4540 Saint lv1ary's 6.H-4.n4 Phoro 631-8767 

Office Manager/General Information 631-7471 Business Office 6jl-53U Advertising 631-6900/8840 Systems/Web Administrator 631-8839 Fax 631-6<)27 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.e<lu News E-Mail observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu Viewpoint E-Mail observer.viewpoinr. l@ml.nlu 
.. 


-----------------Wednesday April 7, 1999 

¦ CAPITOL COMMENTS 

Easter a Time for Courage and Reflection 
Holy \Veek is a time for Christians to reflec't on God's "word" and the ways in which we can be like Christ. Good Friday reminds us of the pinnacle of the harsh realities of what it meant to be the Savior ... dying a horrible death, being nailed to a tree. It should be a time when those who hide behind dogma also explore how to alleviate conflicts. 
Gary J. Caruso 

Within the Notre Dame community, that task comes in a way that is respon­sive to the Church while at the same time being responsive to our nation's existing freedoms. Our free society entitles every­one certain rights the Catholic Church does not. Both can harmoniously coexist if we. as Catholir.s, would explore new middle ground. 
I pr,rsonally applaud the students who have fought for more than t\vo years for an inclusive nondiscrimination clause. I admire the priests and profossors who haw sacrificPd their wnure at Notrn Dame and rnsigned as a result of the hard-line stance of Notre Dame's admin­istration. But I also recognize that juris­dictions like the District of Columbia have included extensive personal protections that Georgetown and Catholic University have had to accommodate, regardless of Church dogma. When the Indiana state legislature leaves its cornfield age for the modPrn ages and enacts equal prolf~c­tions for all persons, then Notre Dame will be mandated to abide by more exten­sive nondiscrimination laws. 
Having failed to move the University trustees into action, the activists on cam­pus should bypass the closed-minded campus structure and concentrate on the 

¦ DOONESBURY 
ON& OF 7H& GUYS 70­
8.P., I'M 50fll{'IMY~ 
NIGHT5410H&GR&W
AT'lH/3-8,ANQ(JeT/,VAS 90 
UPON MYMOVl&S,
P/9JJPT/V£ . .IMA99-lt'XJ:EP 
THAT THefH&IRJP
A~;txt. INf/CU.Y~ I tt/49 
RIM~t:AMtW,t
AJ.JVAYS l6NOR&PATPA/<f/&9.t 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
I KNOt</, I KNOtl.l-'lJIAT!iA 8/TOV231? 7fll3 70P, BUT I lJIINK I'lt23 U!i4RNe:I?A VAL.-­
1/AEJIE te:9SON JlJNfGflT,., 
0 

¦ OuorE or TH£ DAY 
'Today, if you are not confused, you are just not thinking clearly.' 
-Irene Peter 


Wednesday April 7, 1999 ------------------
------------------------page]5 
¦ MISERERE MEI, DEUS 

The Claddaugh 
Love, Loyalty, 
Trust and Eternity 
We at Notre Dame tend to agonize so much over relation­ships. We see numerous articles in The Observer and Scholastic complaining about the dating scene here, as well as our peculiar method of stalking and our feelings of trepidation. \Ve wonder what holds relationships together and how to establish them in the first place. Being single, I dare not offer advice on the latter. I do,,however, think that we have a beau­tiful pattern for not only our romances but for our best friend­ships in the Irish Claddaugh. 
Nathaniel Hannan 
The Claddaugh, for those of you who don't know, is an Irish 
symbol dating back several hundred years. It is usually a ring 
or a circle with an emblem of two hands holding a heart which 
bears a crown. I understand four things to be represented in 
the symbol (there are a few interpretations): the hands symbol­
ize trust, the crown loyalty, the heart love and the ring eterni­
ty. 

The first element is trust. In any long-lasting relationship among people. trust is essential. Trust paves the way for peo­ple to find out more about each other, encouraging an atmos­phere that allows people to reveal themselves to their friends. Between men and women it forges an intellectual intimacy which will make possible, if desired. a more real and lasting physical intimacy later on. Most of us know how it feels when a trust is betrayed; few of us pause to think about when our trusts are kept. We should. Reflection on this concrete way that others care for us in not only a confidentiality but in an open­ness leads to a greater appreciation of that other and an ever closer trust. Ii is a priceless understanding. 
The second element of the Claddaugh is loyalty. Loyalty can be a rather rough challenge. It carries with it a sense of comw mitment and fidelity. It says not 'TU be faithful to our friend­ship so long as I feel good about you" but ''I'll be faithful to you unconditionally." This means that when our friends upset us, disagree with us, are openly hostile to us or betray us, we go forth with not only patience but steadfastness and choose to patch up our differences or Jivo with them asfriends in peace. Rather than fuming and slandering. we quietly wait until oiir friend is receptive to talking about something. This loyalty allows us to maintain a friendship even when our friend is unresponsive to us, is hurtful, or is disloyal himself. The only exception I would draw to unconditional fidelity is in a physi­cally abusive relationship. 
The third and perhaps most profound element is love. Love reaches far past the emotional understanding of our culture. It is a movement of the heart, but also a. choice. Especially rele­vant to gender relations, tho Jove I speak ofhas nothing to do with the flutter in the heart. but with the long-practiced care for the other. When we are the marriage statistics that the alumni association boasts, we shall come to understand that the love holding marriages together has little to do with romanticism and everything to do with our daily choice to care for our partner.Out of this love comes an emotion which far surpasses the one that we get when infatuated with a member of the opposite sex. It is one which lasts even beyond the death of our partner. It is the "true love" that we aspire to, and it will never just happen at first sight. It takes effort and builds slowly but is glorious in pursuit and fulfillment, · . . . . . 
The fourth element is eternity. In it the commitment ofthe rest of the Claddaugh is reiterated. It says "I am here and I am steadfast in this." It bears with troubles because it knows that they will pass, eventually. Jt is something that couples and friends can look back upon and look forward to because it is a statement that the other elements of the Claddaugh have been found (at least in part} and that they will be unconditionally pursued in the future. It is a reflection of God in us. 
So now you all know why I wear that little pin on my lapel. The Claddaugh is something to live life by. It is a daily way of the Cross. and in its fulfiHment lies part of the joy of Easter. We are in a sense resurrected every day in each other·s care. Women. when a man gives you a Claddaugh and knows what it means to do so, you sit up and pay attention. You have found a treasure beyond words. 
Nathaniel Hannan is a freshman joint major in philosophy and theology who may be reached at Hannan.3@nd.edu. His column appears every other ~'ednesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
---···· 
¦ YALE DAILY NEWS 
Meanwhile in Kosovo ... Our Generation Ignorant of War 
(U-WIRE) NEW HAVEN. Conn. being fired at his comrades. lie ran inside to find 
What is it about our generation's appetite for they were a bunch of German youth. "We just 
war'? "Saving Private Ryan," "The Thin Hed wasted them. 13-and 14-year-old boys. We had 
Line," "Platoon," "Good Morning Vietnam" ... we to. We just had to." I think his eyes were welling 
can't seem to get enough of it on the big screen. up by this time. 
It can't just be the older generation, the writers Another time Harper was yelling at a troop to 
and directors. Kids make up a major chunk of help him carry out an order, and he wouldn't Iis­
the box olTice population, and we go to see these ten. He ran over to the man and started shaking 
movies in droves. him, when out of the blue, an enemy sniper shot 
It could be plain curiosity. We, the freshmen, his friend's eye out. "Why him'! Why not me? 
sophomores, juniors and seniors at Yale, for There's no answer. It's just the way it is," Harper 
example, have never really experienced war with said. 
a capital W. The scenes in "Private Ryan" affect The events the veteran described to me in 
us because we have never seen anything so vio-choppy sentence fragments were not about 
lent, so crazy, so sickening. Normandy or Sicily. They did not help me prove 
"Our visions of war are not ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~!!!!!!~ my thesis or illustrate an 
of man-to-man combat," sug-argument. They simply 
gested Abby Hendel, Yale '99. made me aware of the per-
p¦ 

"They are simply Internet sonal horror men like
Iper 

photos of where the bombs Harper endured during the 
hit." \Ve have not seen war war. Young men risked 
on the scale that our parents, I death every day to save the
FOI 

grandparents and great-lives of millions of others 
grandparents have. and preserve a way of life 
Perhaps this is why I was so for the rest of the world. 
intent on doing my senior ----------------When I look at the front 
essay on World War II. pages of the newspaper and see the Kosovo 
I had chosen, as my topic, to write something reports, I can only imagine the countless victims 
about the Normandy Invasion of 1944. \Vhilc I that have resulted from the fighting that has 
did see "Saving Private Ryan," I can't say that it been plaguing that nation for so long. But Kosovo 
was Tom Hanks who really inspired me to tackle is a very different beast than Normandy or 
the story behind the events of the bloody and Vietnam. We have sent no ground troops in and 
heroic stories of D-Oay. President Clinton has said that he has no inten-
Actually, it was a photograph of my great-tion of doing so. Not one of our American pilots 
grandfather that hangs in my grandmother's have been killed (thank God). War is devastating 
front hall. It is black and white and very crisp. in any form, but we are seeing nothing like what 
The man is clothed in full military dress, leaning our forefathers saw. 
against a ship's railing, looking out to sea. Harper looked me in the eye only once during 
Sporting a smart hat with ribbons dotting his our interview, and it was when he told me, "You 
uniform, he appears both confident and pensive can never imagine what it was like out there." 
at the same time. I had a vague idea that he had And he hopes I never vvill be able to. 
been in the Navy during World War II, but it Still, there remains an insatiable curiosity and 
\vasn't until I became a history major at Yale fascination about warfare among our generation. 
that I really began to ask the right questions. Over break, Newsweek came out with an issue 
According to my mother, called "Americans at War" and Admiral Alan Kirk. whom she ..------::=-:=---------, I read it cover to cover. So did 
referred to as "granpierre," had /,, a thousand oth<~rs, I'm sure. 
been the Commander of the judging by the responses to the 
Western Naval Task Force that I editor that followed. In the 
landed American troops at issue were stories of heroism, 
Omaha and Utah beaches during sacrifice, terror. carnage and 
the Normandy Invasion. death. 
I simply had to find out more I couldn't help re-reading a about him. Luckily my grand-tiny clip from one James mother Jent me her copy of Lindsey, who enlisted in the Kirk's oral biography which had Army Medical Corps in 1917. occupied a sacred space on her Ilis grandfather had been a shelf for over 30 years. Also, I Civil War veteran and urged had made my way to the Naval him not to go into the war ­archives in Washington, D.C. to but he did anyway. Lindsay find his personal letters and remembers a very young boy papers. When I got home for who come into his hospital with spring break, I locked myself up major chest wounds. He asked in the work room to digest the for a cigarette and Lindsey material I had found. gave it to him, only to come 
I emerged a week later only to back a few hours later to see take a breath and to attend a I the boy dead, his cigarette still dinner party a neighbor was hanging from between his lips. throwing. At the table, though, I I finished my research with a couldn't stop talking about Sicily new appreciation and respect and Normandy, the sites of the for the veterans of past wars, two major amphibious landings I for the pilots in Kosovo, and for was researching. (Most seniors the men and women who join can think of nothing but their ~------' the services today. When my senior essays right now, and how the heck they older brother joined the Navy as an officer two are going to write 20 more pages in 48 hours.) years ago, I didn't really understand why he This is how I happened to meet two older gentle-would do such a bizarre thing. He could have man who had taken part in both the invasion of stayed in New York with all his friends and had a Sicily and the Normandy assault. What luck: this grand old time. Now I realize he may have want-was my perfoct chance to get more "primary ed to find a way to connect to those ordinary material." men or the past who did extraordinary acts. 
I found myself the next day in the library of Movies, magazines and even conversations Larry Harper, who had been a member of the with veterans cannot achieve that connection. 82nd airborne division that landed at Sicily in Thankfully, very few us will ever have to. But we 1943 and at Normandy in 1944. All set to fill a should applaud those who make the choice to notebook with his memories, I ended up leaving put their lives on the line when freedom is at with an empty notebook but an enormous of stake, and truly achieve that most awful connec­amount of awe and respect for the man I left tion. behind. 
During the entire interview, Harper had trou­This column originally ran in the Yale ble looking me in the eye. At first, he could only University paper, the Yale Daily News. on April pull out books I might borrow, point out pictures 5, 1999 and has been reprinted courtesy ofthe of various battles and thrust military video tapes U-Wire. at me. As I slowly got him talking, however, he The views expressed in this column are those did tell me two shocking stories. ofthe author and not necessarily those of The 
When he was in the streets in a town in Italy, Observer. Ilarper spotted a hotel from which shots were 


i ' ' 

l \ 
! 

page 16------------------------OTHE ---------------Wednesday, April 7, 1999
BSERVER 



Photo courtesy of TR Music 

Tim Reynolds Live 
Puke Matrix Tour 
TR Music 
** 1/2 (out of five) 



INDIA.NA.POLIS 
·. Aprill Metro George Clinton April 13 Vogue Theatre ·Aprif 9 Double Door Faith Hill· April 14 Murat Theatre 
April 10 Riviera Night Club Bodeans April 18 Vogue Theatre April 11 Shirk Center Sponge April 19 Patio Lounge April 12 United Center They Might Be Giants April 19 Vogue Theater April 14 Metro Better Than Ezra April 21 Fountain Sq. Theatre April 15. House of Blues Marilyn Manson April 22 Market Sq. Arena April 16 Braden John Mellencamp April 24 Assembly Hall April 18 Canopy Korn April 26 Market Sq. Arena April 22 House of Blues leftover Salmon April 27 Vogue Theatre 
April 28 Rosemont Theatre Jazz April 30 Market Sq. Arena May 1 Redbird Arena Ani Difranco Mayl Murat Theatre Mayl Park West Moe. May4 Mars Nightclub MayS House of Blues Rusted Root May6 Murat Theatre May7 Riviera Night Club. Soul Coughing May 11 Vogue Theatre May8 Rosemont Horizon Natalie Merchant May19 Market Sq. Arena 
May12 Riviera Night Club Dave Matthews Band June 22 Deer Creek Center May 15 United Center Britney Spears Aug. 25 Markey Sq. Arena May23 New World May28 New World 
SoutL Bend 

Elliott Smith Sparklehorse Eve 6 Cherry Poppin Daddies Rolling Stones Sebadoh Better Than Ezra Collective Soul Samples Fastball Neil Young Ani DiFranco Ben Folds Five Crash Test Dummies Wilco Lenny Kravitz Cranberries RKelly Aerosmith John Mellencamp Dave Matthews Band Allman Bros NSync Joey McIntyre REM 

It may seem amazing to some that a band can be playing music for over 14 years and not be at least somewhat known in the world of music. How often do bands put out one or maybe two hit albums and then just disappear? Of course, one shouldn't be too critical. If this did not happen then we would not have VHl 's "Where Are They Now" specials. It just so happens that Tim Reynolds, Houston Hoss and Johnny Gilmore have been jamming together for that long and have never gotten much attention. For those who do not know, they are all Charlottesville musicians. Yes. it's the place where the Dave Matthews Band is from, and yes, Tim Reynolds is that guy who goes on the acoustic tours with Dave Mattlrnws. Some might even hear some of Tim Reynolds' work if they don't automat­ically skip past the second track of the second disc of the "Live at Luther College" CD set. The trio of Reynolds, Ross and Gilmore has a brand-new live CD from their 19lJ8 tour. Their group, which in the past has lwt~n known as TIU, is currently being labeled as Puke Matrix. They are in essence a power trio -Heynolds on guitar and vocals, Hoss on bass and Gilmore on drums. In all honesty, what has been described as unique and ethereal vocal tal,\nts are just very weird. Actually, it is somewhat disturbing at points. Heynolds' voice at times greatly distracts from the music on the album, which is very good. In fact, the entirn album is almost ruined by the songs that do contain vocal parts. One of the most difficult parts of guitar work which legends such as Hendrix use, and which Heynolds himself' accomplishes on his acoustic work, is the ability of using the guitar as vocal element. Miles Davis also could do this with his trumpet genius. 
One of the best songs on the album, "Where's the Fire," contains vocal elements but they just seem to work much better. There are some songs such as "Don't Know \Vhat" where the song is completely ruined by the vocals. If the vocal issues are subracted, then vvhat rnsults are three very talented musicians. Gilmore and Ross are also some of the best at their respective instruments. 
The album itself' is an eclectic mix of high energy rock, funk and jazz as well as elements of Tim Reynolds' pan-cultural work in songs like "Leelines" and "Breathing Space" -a song that also appears on his "Gossip of the Neurons" release. There are also some great jam songs such as the last track, ".Johnny's Song." 
\Vhcn suggesting to a prrson whether or not to buy an album, the easiest way to do so is with tlw question. "What kind of music do you like?" in the effort to categorize an album into specific genrns. Unfortunately, PukP Matrix did not really <TPalP an album that can bu easily lahel('d. It integrat,~s such divers11 PIPmPnts that many will lil,;p it, whilP others will despis<' it. 
James Schuyler 
June 14,15 New World 
Branford Marsalis

June 18 New World Aug. 6, 7 Rosemont Horizon Godsmack Aug. 12 House of Blues Rod Stewart Aug. 20 New World 
Better Than Ezra 

TONIGHT Stepan Center TONIGHT Heartland April 14 JACC April 27 Heartland 
. I 
¦ 
I 
I 
..All the news that fits, we print" 



VOL. LIX NO. DIX WE'RE INDEPENDENT. WE GOT TWO WORDS FOR YA. YOUR STUDENT ACTIVITIES FEE 
Board of Fellows actually a bunch of old dirty bastards 

"God Bless orga­
nized crime!"ND 
Prez cackles. 
BeDartolo lives 
By DUKE BLIGHT 

Contrary to earlier published reports, Notre Dame's clandestine Board of Fellows consists not of six priests and six lay people, but six priests and six convicted felons. 
Gangsters Ted ,J. BeDartolo, pre­sumed dead, and the imprisoned John Gatti round out a list of Board members that are in fact fat, rich, pompous :rvlafiosos. 
"We are honored to have such hard-core Catholics controlling this University with their iron fists of rage," said University president Father Ed "Skunky" Palloy. "We think it will further our reputation as the premier Catholic institution in the countrv. And also, anyone who screws vvith us gets waxed." 
BeDartolo, reported dead in the early 1990s, used blood money and his corrupt contracting company to build the architectural eye-sore that bears his proud name. 
The hideous building is not the onlv thing BeDartolo has donated to the· Universitv. 
"He fit ,Jin{ Collette with a smash­ing pair of cement slippers as a part­ing gift," raved Gotti from behind 
Continued on Page 4 
NOT INSIDE 

Doherty Leads 1999-2000 Irish to National Tltle 
After resorting to groveling and beg­ging, and even promising Michael Jordan's autograph in order to prevent his three star sophomores from trans­ferring to a "winning program," first­year men's basketball coach Matt Doherty guided Notre Dame to its first-ever NCAA Basketball Championship. Page B78. 
Office of Student Activities Rescinds WRC Probation, Director Cries Like a Baby 
In a stunning turn of events, Director of Student Activities Mo Assidy announced his office would rescind its two-year probation of the Women's Resource Center after just one year. 
When asked to comment on the rea­son for the reversal, Assidy buried his head in hands and said sobbing softly, ''I've...just...l'm sorry, I...well, to tell you the truth, (sniff) I'm tired of look­ing in the mirror every morning and wanting to vomit. I mean, look at me. I'm a tyrannical, fascist pig!" Page Cl3. 
O'Harum reverts to 'glory days,' approves on-campus kegs for AnTostal 
In the hope that students will drink themselves into an even more apathet­ic stupor, vice-president of Student Affairs Baddie O'Harum agreed to allow kegs on campus for the spring AnTostal festival. 
As a safety measure, she warned stu­dents not to engage in keg-tossing until they have completely kicked the shit. 
Angry at O'Harum's decision, Flip Side's crazed president stormed into her office, red-faced and swearing like a sailor saying, "You goddamn, motha-
GoodFellows 
Six Fellows stopped for a rare, ill-conceived press photo en route to a covert meeting in a dimly lit. smoke-filled room. When asked where they went, Deauchamp bitch­slapped the reporter and said, "It ain't non'a ya damn bidness. Git outta my face." Pictured, from left: Palloy, hit-man Sammy "The Bull'' Gravano, Hoffa, BeDartolo, Gatti and Deauchamp. 
ND SURVEILLANCE PLANS GO TO POT 
PSA displeased, plans 'wipe-out' speak­out, initiates poop strike 
ND 'overioyed' with the prospect; says PSA is S.O.L. 
By DEO DEEEEODORO 
In an attempt to infringe on student privacy as obscenely as possible, the University will use bathroom surveillance technology so that Big Brother can contin­ue to watch students as closely as possible. 
Hundreds of new surveil­lance cameras will appear in bathroom stalls of residence halls, classroom buildings and the Women's Resource Center. 

"We've wanted the Toilet Cam for a long time, and now our dream is a reality," said Still A..Jerk, assistant vice president for Residence Life. "Bathrooms are hotbeds of suspicious activi­
ty." 
· Mo Assidy, director of Ending Student Activities, volunteered to lead the charge. With his new, larger office, Assidy has room for over 60 TV monitors -one is exclusively for Days of our Lives, while the others will display pictures from Toilet Cam and others. 
"I'll get all you meddling kids," said Assidy, foaming at the mouth and clutching his Uzi. "I'll make you pay." 
Notre Dame Security /Police endorsed the University's decision, prais­ing the school's dedication to keeping abreast of the latest technological developments. 
"Toilet Cam is awesome. I could watch it for hours," said Officer Boy Scout. 
"It's all so high-tech -the camera is undetectable to the human eye, and it's actu­ally hidden inside a massive camera-shaped object that hangs from the ceiling." 
University president Father Ed "Skunky" Palloy was thrilled to hear the 
news, but of course he knew about it three months ago when the Board of Fellows approved the decision. 
"We are honored to have surveillance cameras in bathrooms because we feel it will further enhance our rep­utation as the nation's pre­mier Catholic institution," he said. 
Phil Donahue tipped off the PSA a month ago about Toilet Cam, but the Pretty Stupid Activists brushed it off. 
Now, certain that at least a dozen un-energetic students will murmur in protest, the PSA is planning a rally and a week of self-sacrifice. 
"We call upon our fellow students to participate in a Poop Strike in protest of this wretched Toilet Cam," cried Baron Freider. 
But Jerk still championed Toilet Cams, claiming 0.063 percent of all campus crime occurs in bathrooms. 
"We're watching your asses," he growled. 
Jerk will also install sur­veillance cameras in the basement of South Dining Hall, perhaps to keep an eye on the roaches. 
If the cameras detect any other suspicious activity ­like free thought or anything remotely resembling free press -the basement will be filled with tear gas. 

ND STUDENTS COME OUT IN FAVOR OF 'IDEA' 
Box would make great speaker 
Palloy wonders: "What's an idea?" 
By G. ZEUS H. CHRIST 
NOTRE DAME-Mildly perturbed at this year's choice for Commencement speaker, a partially all(;iible, mid-sized cluster of students wandered almost aimlessly toward Hayes-Healy in what the PSA called "a powerful showing of student distaste" for the administration's selection of Elizabeth Dole. 
Objections ranged from political to utterlv incoherent, but everyone agreed on o~e major point: that there exists only one speaker who could ever hope to connect with all students. 
"Only one speaker could ever hope to connect with all students," said Baron Freider, supreme commander of the Political Semi-Activists. 
"To connect with all students, only one speaker could ever hope," agreed student-athlete Boy Smurfy. "And if I have seven apples, and Rick Majerus ate 35 of them, but didn't get the coaching job, then what's Lucki's phone number?" 
Students cried out for the Best Buy Idea Box, claiming they were inspired by the recent television commercial in which the Idea Box guarantees that even in the "real world," video games will con­tinue to be on sale. 
"His issue is one of paramount impor­tance to our genera­tion," Freider said. "Without him, mil­lions would be suf­fering atrocious indignities and dis­crimination." 
While the PSA objected to Dole's 


right-wing political Idea Box bent, most students simply thought Dole, a mere candidate in the upcoming presidential race, com­pletely lacked national prominence. 
"Liddy Dole just isn't famous enough for Notre Dame," said Death Regan, president of last year's senior class. "I mean, for Purdue maybe, or IU or Ivy Tech ... but Notre Dame? No. We need actual leaders." 
University president Father Ed "Skunky" Palloy, staring blankly in a reporter's general direction, was unable to comment because Pop Warner had not yet told Palloy what his opinion should be. 
But students refused to be silenced. 
"Dude, the Idea Box is the bomb," said Smurfy. "I really dig his blue tights. That's courage, man." 
Right Reason publisher Hate Forhomos appeared confused because neither Ex Corde Ecclesiae nor the Catechism mention the consequences of allowing lay people to speak at Catholic university commencements. 
But later, Forhomos came out as pro­Box, saying that though it's unclear as to the Idea Box's religious beliefs, Mr. Box certainly has some qualities Dole lacks. 
"It's good that she's Republican, but let's face it -she's a woman," Forhomos said, crushing out six cigarettes and lighting 10 more. 
"At least the Idea Box won't give women any ideas about ambition or potential," he added. "We don't need any of their bleeding-heart sentimentality or compassion at this school." 



res 
eM---
IT'S HE 


¦ Old Guy Championship 
White-haired alumni face off to see who will referee extremist championship match 

MAL-L-OY 

Tiring of alumnus Phil Donahue returning to campus to crusade in support of progressive ideas, University president Father Edward Malloy issued a challenge to meet in the ring with larger ramifications than old-guy bragging rights -the winner earns the right to referee \Vrestlemania 99's Extremist Championship Match. 
With power between the campus' flaming liberals and ultra-conservatives hanging in the balance, specta­tors should rightly have expected an intense match from Malloy and Donahue. 
"Hey, we're not that old. Have you watched Ric Flair and Hollywood Hogan wrestle lately?" Donahue reminded. 
"Who?" Malloy asked. "Are they benefactors?" 
The cagey veterans eyed each other before trading a series of blows. Finally Donahue worked Monk into a corner and launched a Bucking Bronco on Malloy's head. The liberals cheered, the conservatives hissed, and the mainstream middle's huge majority lapsed back into its customary apathy. 
Rage hidden by his mask of stony indifference, Malloy surged to his feet and, with a series ofsupplexes, swiftly turned the tide of the match towards the forces of conservatism. 
¦ Bridesmaid Belt Championship 
Political Bantamweights square off to earn title of Notre Dame's toughest runner-up 
1'~APL-EY 

Bill Bradley and Liddy Dole both face uphill battles to win their political parties' presidential nominations, and each has recent ties to Notre Dame, making this battle in the Joyce Center inevitable. 
Hanging in the balance for the White House hope­fuls is a claim as the campus's favorite bridesmaid. 'Td rather open a can of whoop-ass on George W. Bush, but dismembering that progressive pro-choice 
"But what about all of the oppressed people on cam­pus? Who will look out for them?" Donahue weakly queried. 
Malloy swiftly hoisted Donahue across his shoulders and applied a torture rack submission hold. The bat­tered talk show host had no choice but to cry uncle and let the referee stop the match. 
"I just act lethargic," Malloy told the stunned audi­ence. 
Fearful of what would happen in the main event with Malloy refereeing the match, Donahue limped back to wherever it is he lives and prepared to write a letter to the campus newspaper. 
"Big Father Pump is your hookup. Holler if you hear me!" a triumphant Malloy yelled to the crowd. 
Bradley should be an equally large boost for women everywhere," Dole said in her pre-match remarks. 
"I've got a four-point plan to identify the realities of the sports entertainment industry, a three-part process to redefine those realities, and the nine steps to reinvigorate trailer parks across America that tune in to wrestling every Monday night," Bradley droned. "And besides, she worked for the Red Cross. What can she possible know about real-life in-ring action?" 
"Action? I'm married to a Viagra spokesman. Don't tell me about action," Dole retorted. 
As soon as the bell rang to start the match, Bradley used his leverage to pummel Dole with a series of blows to the head and torso. Following a supplex, Bradley moved in for the cover and pin when suddenly a low-flying airplane towing a "ND: Dump Bill Bradley" banner flew through the ring, grazing the New Jersey politician and forestalling a 1-2-3 count that would've finished Dole. 
"God-damn right wing activists," Bradley muttered. 
Referee .Jim Colletta did not see the interference. 
"Sometimes when I'm standing right in the middle of the ring, it's hard to see all the wrestling going on," Colletta whined. "It's especially tough when they stand right in front of me." 
Defeat avoided, Dole knew she had to overcome her height disadvantage to avoid succumbing to another flurry of Bradley's brawling. Her only chance was to take the big man off his feet. 
"Bob Dole says sweep the leg!" her manager/hus­band hollered from ringside. 
With a well-executed ~ussian leg-sweep, Dole brought the former all-American to his knees and then applied a frankensteiner submission hold, twisting Bradley to the point of spinal breakage. 
Painfully contorted out of his usual expressionless demeanor, Bradley then begged to end the match. The referee raised Dole's arm, pronouncing her the cam­pus's election 2000 runner-up champion. 
"GOP forever," a triumphant Dole told the crowd. 
¦ MAIN EVENT 
The 


Titan tandems batt ed athletic depart 
For years, athletic director Michael Wadsworth enjoyed a repu­tation as the campus' most powerful decision-maker, giving final approval to the NBC contract, the Adidas agreement, the stadium expansion and all of the stuff that really counts. 
But by rejecting Wadsworth's candidate for the men's basket­ball head coaching job, executive vice president Bill Beauchamp's 
C.S.C. reclaimed its pre-Rockne status as eminent power on Notre Dame's campus. This power struggle necessitated a face-to-face rematch -the .JACC-Off. No telephone conference call, just a four-man brawl. 
"This wrestling format really favors us. I mean, look, I'm a fat­ass heavyweight," the AD's tag-team partner, Rick Majerus, boast­ed. 
"You bet he is," \,Vadsworth confirmed. "He can coach, recruit and also powerbomb like nobody's business. The C.S.C. better beware." 
Doherty was considerably less optimistic. 
"Michael .Jordan didn't have any ad,ice for me about wrestling, but he said he'd ask his bookie to see how bad the spread is against us," the rookie head coach worried. 
The match began with Wadsworth and Beauchamp alone in the squared circle, but the priest promptly summoned Doherty into the ring to pummel Wadsworth with a series of devastating Flair­esque chest slaps. Doherty hoisted the disoriented AD atop his shoulders and Beauchamp climbed the corner turnbuckle, leaped off and caught Wadsworth squarely in the chest for a Doomsday 


LLACIOUS! OH MY GOD, THE CARNAGE!! 



le to't~solve dis~~t­
1, I
1 

:men 'lfflctatorshi 

Device. 
, 
. .:'-: . ¢ 

"Whooooooo!" Doherty scµd. \ ... 
Wadsworth clamored out Qfthe. ring for a bre~tq~r and tried slowly to regain his senses. His 9-r~!lmy though.ts~p~l51issful, total­itarian rule in the JACC were int~rfupted by a new.foice. 
"Hey, club !hem with a ch.y.r,it:s'~kay to chea~fi> Majerus yelled 
r .... , ....¥ A ·.· ·,•·•
to his would-be boss. It~:> J'f' .·• · ' 
Wadsworth struggled t~lr~call the mqves .li'e successfully used two years ago when giving Lou Holtz the ax, and couldn't shake memories of cooperation with the C.S.C. He grabbed a steel chair, winked at his former opponents, then turned towards Majerus and swung, surprising everyone in the arena. 
"Running Lou out of town, teasing the Big Ten and bossing around the Provost -those were the glory days," Wadsworth pro­claimed. "You're too willful and ,independent, Majerus. We don't need you. I can put up with a losing basketball program -hell, I'm getting pretty good at it." 
With that sudden realignment of power, Majerus found himself the only loser in the JACC-Off contest. 
"I didn't even get a chance to knock heads in the ring and shmv I'm a ·winner. I had to sit here while others plotted and schemed to determine my fate," Majerus lamented. 
"Welcome to Notre Dame, you Mormon bastard. Hit the road," 
Beauchamp told the defeated Ute coach. "But Bill, he's Catholic," Doherty corrected. "Shut your mouth and know your role," the C.S.C. retorted. 
¦ Four-way Quadruple Threat 'I Quit' Match 
Underdog student leaders try to avoid complete irrel­evance, face undefeated administration tag team 
c:E~A"'C C 1-fA"'A 
All-too-aware of their predecessors' impotence, out­going student body president and vice president Pete Cesaro and Andrea Selak knew the odds were stacked against students in a match pitting their ticket against a powerlul pair of administration veterans -Bill Kirk and Patty O'Hara. 
Searching for firepower, the students armed them­selves for their uphill battle with a bevy of utopian ideas like student rights and Board of Trustees repre­sentation 
"We've got bigger guns than your idealist good ideas," Kirk taunted on his way to the ring. "Try some ofour institutionalized inertia." 
"It is against policy for University officers to com­ment on any matter University officers are thinking about," O'Hara revealed. 
This match proved as lopsided as predicted. 
The students stood at the edge of the battlefield but were quickly divided and neutralized. Kirk sneezed at ringside, blowing Selak into the crowd. 
Then O'Hara went to work on Cesaro, using her patented "evil eye." 
¦ Extremist Championship Match 
ND's Left and Right collide in ring's center for label of top campus activists Monk serves as special guest referee, 'claims' impartial performance 
. 
Due to a three-month hunger strike by the PSA protesting the use of sweatshop labor in the construc­tion of wrestling rings, a decision was made by University president and main-event referee Father Edward Malloy to hold the final match on a recycled plastic mat at the SO-yard line ofNotre Dame Stadium. 
"I figured we'd give in to those bleeding-heart hip­pies on this issue," Malloy commented. "That 4vay, we can continue our policy of ignoring that inclusion cr:1p." 
As the main event approached, a bitter and stubborn Right Reason squad emerged from a secluded hut that normally allows them to avoid contaminating their miuds with troublesome liberal concepts such as truth. After five minutes of exposure to the partly sunny sky, their eyes adjusted to the light and their blood began to boil with righteous indignation. 
"I'm tired of the University pandering to the interests of powerless liberal groups like the Faculty Senate and the student body," decried an editor of Right Reason. "All of these common criminals keep getting a break. We all know that forces of righteousness should have fire-bombed the stinkin' WRC 



Sufficiently weakened, the Student Union leader agreed to look for a better venue for the stu­dents' concerns -maybe a sub­com mitt e e somewhere. 
"Can you guys just pin me so we can get this over with?" the president queried. 

"Student government doesn't really know how to fight, so the outcome of this match is pretty predeter­mined and pointless," Cesaro admitted. 
"And that's the bottom line," Kirk agreed. 


~fQ~~ 
~EA<SCN 
use of the word "ring." We believP that other geometri­cal shapes and forms are being oppressed and we would like to announce a rally on Tuesday nig ..." 
Right Reason staff members swiftly silenced the PSA with a dual clothesline and wasted little time bringing steel folding chairs into the ring to reward all non­Catholic thinkers. The weakened PSAers rallied with their secret weapon -the U.S. Constitution. 
a long time ago. Not peace, but the sword." 
The holy enthusiasm waned once the PSA arrived at the environmentally-friendly ring, chanting incoherent protest slogans. 
''Shut your mouths and get your pinko hutts into the ring," Malloy shouted at the leftist faction, his ego soaring after his big victory over Donahue. 
''Sorry we're late," said the head of the PSA upon step­ping onto the mat. "We were just finishing our chalk signs so that everyone would be able to find the Stadium. One other thing -we protest the 
"Take that! Freedom is good," PSA leaders said 
Right Reason responded with a drver, older text -the Bible. 
"Take that you godless heathens. God bless intoler­ance!" Right Reason pro­claimed. 
Taken aback, the PSAers were subjected to DDTs and then humiliating Bronco Busters.Having demolished the WRC and PSA, the "'journalists"' planned to undermine the NAACP. NATO, and any other non-Vatican acron)111s. 
"\Vho's next?" Right Reason wanted to know. 
J 

Jlotrt aamt Absurbtr WEDNESDAY, APRIL 7, 1999 SECTION 1, PAGE 4 

! Swing&Missl BY PEEVED HOSEDANDBLUE 
Good~1orning 
NOTRE DAME 


We hate you. NOHTHWESTEHN HULES! 
.i 
SayWhat?

i 
., 
In Notre Dame's narrow victory over LSU, quarterback .Jarious Jackson suf­fert>d a season-ending knee injury while obeying orders to run out the clock. 
"Clock management isn't an exact sci­
encP," head coach Hob Gravie helpfully 
pointed out. 

"I mean, there's a lot of tricky prime 
numbers in bet\veen 30 and 0, like 17 
and 29." 

HeWhoLaughsLast? 
Upon hearing the announcement that Notre Dame picked underdog candidate Matt Dohertv (former Kansas assistant} as its mnn's ·basketball coach, a press room filled with sports journalists at the Final Four in St. Petersburg burst into raucous laughter. 
That's a gimd sign, right? 
TheMatchGame 


Dilbert and 'Doh'bert. One's a guinea-pig for an asinine control­freak boss, and the other... well, can YOU tell them apart? 
Staff Box 

Deserves credit -blame? -for the 
Idea Box fiasco: 

Brian Reintha!er Don't tell him wrestling's not real: Derek Betcher She came, she saw, she conquered: Heather Cocks Hey baby, come see my swedish fish: Mark DeBoy Gets calls every year from people who can't tell if this is real or not: Shirley Grauel People to call if you're offended: Sarah Hiltz. Kathleen Lopez, Eddie Llull, Joey Cavato, Allison Krilla, Heather MacKenzie, Kristi Klitsch, Sarah Dylag, Pete Cilella, Ken Kearney 
People who get paid, but we don't know 
what the hell they do: Mike Brouillet, Mike Flynn, the Controller, rhe SDH building manager, the Union Local Pipe Fitters No. 109 Don't piss him off, he's got a really big van: Jack Radican 
"We're Independent. Eat S ..... " 
Just kidding, Michelle. 

McGraw 'too talented,' may have to resign. p. 26-5 Rodman will captain '99 won1en's b-ball p. GR8 Swin1 team will use S.I. paint-bikinis. p. 0-yeah 
ND no longer considering WAC 
By Ernie Lintbrush 

CAUSTIC OPINIONATED BL0WHAIW 
Deauchamp, Palloy admit decision-making 
After conducting exhaus­tive conversations with 
power for AD 'just a silly ruse' 
\,\'cstern Athletic Conference officials and analyzing the Clodsworth informed admin­costs and benefits of confer­istrators that he had commit­ence affiliation for all of the ted the Irish to join the WAC, University's varsity sports effective at the start of the programs, Notre Dame ath­2000-01 football season. letic director Psych Upon hearing the news. 

"I pretty much hate my life right now," a humiliated Clodsworth admitted to the media. "They really jerked my chain this time. I may take Muffet McGraw and get the hell over to Utah.'.­
Butt I thought I fastened it 

executive vice president Father Dill Deauchamp attempted to conceal the growing smirk on his face. before busting out in tearful laughter, jumping up and down. and wailing, "Gotcha, gotcha, gotcha!" 
University president Father Ed "Stinky" Palloy was, as is typical of the aging hoopstcr, slightly more subdued. 
"Psych, you ignorant slut," said Palloy to the increasing­ly concnrned athletic direc­tor. "After the whole Mc~jerus debacle, we never thought you would fall for one of our silly little games again. Did you really think you were anything more than a nwan­ingless pawn in our well­oiled machine? Ila!" 
Palloy and lh~auchamp then demanded that the weeping C]odsworth call WAC officials to inform them of the "mix-up." Clodsworth was forced to use the speak­er phone in the president's office so the demented co­consppirators could listen, point and laugh. 
"Tell them you were tem­porarliy insane," said a gig­gly Deauchamp. 
Clodsworth braVf~ly tried to calm the furious WAC com­missioner, who became even more incensed upon !waring Palloy's attempt to belch tlw alphabet in tlw background. 
Later that day, Palloy addressed tlw nwdia. 
"Na na-na, na-na na! \Veeccc ·re inn ndP pPn n­ndent!" he sang. "But seri­ously, we arc the pn~-em i­ncnt Catholic university in the United States of' America. We're just too good for y'all." 
Bowing his head in shanrn, Clodsworth attempted to deny offering the WAC com­misioncr tickets to next year's Navy game in order to entice the conference to admit Notn~ Dame. 
"I certainlv did not offer ND-Navy · tickets," Clods-worth ass1)rted. "I didn't 111wd to: they bit on $2.50 and a Jim Coll,~tto• autographed tfmnis ball. 
"But this is the last time I'll do their dirty work," Clodsworth added. pointing at Palloy and Deauchamp, who had not yet \Viped away their tears of mirth. 
"Ttwy can wash their own cars, do their own laundrv and cut the crusts off tlwi;. 
o \V n stu picl s a n dw ic hes ,·· Clodsworth asserted. "And as God is my witn,1ss, I'll never prank-call Lee Corso for them again." 
NDproudly 'married to the mob' 
Continuedfrom Page 1 
bars at the River Oaks Golf Resort and Minimum­Security Penitentiary. "The man's devotion to Notre Dame knows no bounds." 
Agreed head football coach Bob Davie, "BeDartolo's a swell guy. It was real sweet of himto give Coach Colletto an all-expenses-paid trip to swim with the fishes. We always wanted that for him." 
Fellow fellows Palloy and Rev. Dill Deauchamp first got into bed with the mob in August 1988, at which point they decided Notre Dame would win the national championship so as to boost its financial standing. 
Notre Dame's U.S. News & Wor]d Report ranking rose dramatically after the editor tragically gouged his eyes out in a freak shirt-buttoning accident. In a totally unrelated, not-pre-determined move, gang­ster and University fellow Jimmy Hoffa took over. 
"We're up to 18th in the polls!" giggled Palloy, drunk on power and stoned out of his mind. "God Bless organized crime!" 
But passions for footbal1 and crime sprees unex­pectedly conflicted in 1994, when high-school phe­nom Randy Moss took an interest in Notre Dame. 
Initially encouraged by Moss's shady behavior, Deauchamp hoped to recruit Moss both as a wide­receiver and part-time "messenger." 
But the bookies had already wagered Notre Dame's entire endowment on Nebraska winning the national championship, and Deauchamp feared an early impact by Moss would threaten the Cornhuskers' NCAA dominance. 
''I'm sure glad we bet the farm on Nebraska back in '95," Palley said in a typically exuberant manner. "That Moss kid could've really screwed our pocket­books, and thus, our reputation as the premier Catholic institution in America." 
The PSA is planning a protest of mob killings. 


Wednesday, April 7, 1999-------------------OTHE ------------------------page 17
BSERVER 

The University of Notre Dame Collegiate Jazz Festival Presents 

TONIGHT AT 7:30 p.m. IN STEPAN CENTER 
Billboard jazz writer Steve eastern double-recd instrument, before one of the city's most distinguished Grammy in 1995, in the category of Best Graybow recently dPscribed settling into a high combustion. uptem­musical families which includes broth­Pop Instrumental Performance, for his Branford Marsalis' quartet as po groove. "A Thousand Autumns" is. ers Wynton, Delfeayo and Jason, and stirring rendition of "The Star-Spangled "a unit with telepathic intuition from start to finish, an extravagantly the family patriarch, pianisVmusic edu­Banner." on which he once again 
and unbridled adventurousness. held melancholy ballad. cator Ellis Marsalis. In 1984, he teamed with Hruce Hornsby. this time tog<'tlwr by a singular creative vision." "The song reflects the sadness people releastid "Scenes In the City," his first for Ken Burns' mmnorable PBS series, 
For his first quartet album in nine havti in their lives," says Marsalis. 'Tve album for Columbia Jazz, beginning a "Baseball." "The Dark Keys" (1996) was yt>ars. \larsalis has mad<' a n•quiem for always been in love with sad music." very successful jazz career. lie also a further step in Branford's jazz explo­a lwavy\.v!'ight. "Hnquit•m" is a tributt' "Lykicf' is a stunning theme-and-vari­made successful forays into the pop rations, while a second Buckshot to pianist KPnny Kirkland. Branf'ord's a ti ons piece, world with album, "Music Evolution," was released f'r i(' ll cl a 11 d (' () II p a g ll (' ro r IW a r ly 2() made all the artists such as in 1997. yPars. whosP sublinw 1wrf'ormances on more remark­the Grateful Bevond his work as a recording artist, tlw ,ww album prm·pd to be his last able by the Dead, Sting and Bra1iford has also j<iined the faculty of rP('ordNl work. f!igh ts of fancy Bruce llornsby. Michigan StatP University in East 
"During tlw St)Ssions. WI' wPrc on an the quartet In 1990, Lansing, Mich .. wlrnre he teaches in the emotional high. but when you work improvises on Branford record­school's jazz studies department. with musicians as great as these guys, the elegant yet ed his first quar­He has begun ,vorking as a creative it's Pasy," said !\1arsalis, vvho was joirwd simple melody. tet album, consultant with Columbia Records' jazz by Kirkland. bassist Eric Revis and "The melody "Crazy People department, signing new talent and d;·um m n r J,dT "Tain" \Vatts in, in a dictates time " Music," later providing creative input into the devel­r1•rl'nt prPss rPlPasP. and tempo," he winning a opment of several artists on the label. In 
Not satisfied with tlw lirst takPs, the said. "It was Grammy in 1993 that capacity, the first album he pro­band w1•11t out 011 tour to perform tlw Kenny's idea to for Best Jazz duced for tlw label was David Sanchez's ,ongs. Tlwy WPrt' looking forward to take the piece Instrumental "Obsesion." which received a Grammy going bark in tlw studio to rP-rncord. way outside the Performance, nomination for Best Latin Jazz 
"W.-had rt•arlwd a stag<' wlwre we chords, vet still Individual or Performance. k rw w tlw m a g ic \Vas hap pc n in g. " keep the ·form." Group. for his Other projects whkh he has produced rerall,id Marsalis. "Kenny's death The album's album "I Heard include forthcoming albums by singer sucks, but as was once said, ;As lung as only trio piece. You Twic(~ The Frank McComb and pianist Joey you live, people will din."' the spectacular­First Time," and Calderazzo. 
Though tlw plan was to re-record the ly poly-rhythmic another in 1994 In the months ahead, Branford will be tracks. tlw musi1· is startlingly fresh and "Elysium" was (Best Pop back out on the road, and his roadtrip PI11otiv11. The HPquiem sessions, rncord­recorded after Instrumental brings him to Notre Dame tonight. Pd liv<' at tlw Tarrytown Music llall out­Kenny's death Performance for Though he's had his share of pain.
Requiem
sich• Nt•w York City, am a fitting homage and reflects "Barcelona Marsalis has the right perspective. not only to K1•1rny, but to tlrn shePr mus­some of the Sony '.\lusic Mona,'' a single "In rPtrospect, my life has been n'la­cularity ol' onP of tlw grPat jazz quartet group's anger he recorded with tively pain-free," he said. "The Lhings
**** (out of five)
combinations in rnn•nt history. and grief over Bruce Hornsby that affected Ill(' have affected 1111~ 
ProducNI bv l)plfeavo ·Marsalis, the loss. for the Olympics dPeply. Hut when I think about the good HequiPm opP11s with ·thP spirited "Cassandra" is the album's other bal­in Spain). fortunt> I'vf' had, tlw grPat family l havP, "Doctonl'" (Kenny's nicknanwl. which lad, a ravishing tune with no set time His 1993 trio album. "Bloomington," I know I'm a very lucky man." showcases the ·playful interaction signature to keep it earthbound. was hailed as a landmark in contempo­Branford enjoyl'd with his colleagues in The album's closer, the blues-inflect­rary jazz, and 1994's debut album from the quartPt. ed "16th Street Baptist Church," is pow­Buckshot LeFonque, Branl'ord's unique 
"Tril'ste" b,~gins \-Vith an evocative ered by Eric Hevis' smoky pasacaglia on amalgam of jazz and hip-hop, similarly s1•ction in which Branford mimics tlw the bass. broke nPw musical ground. 
Geoffrey Rahie 
sPmi-torws of tho slwnnai, a middl<1-The New Orlrans native was born into 11•1 was nominated for another 
Branford Marsalis 
page 18 The Observer• SPORTS Wednesday, April 7, 1999 
¦ fv1AJOR LEAGUE BASEBAU 

Bonds cashes in RBI to put Cincinnati in the Red 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI 
Barrv Bonds homered, sin­gled a1;d doubled home the go­ahead run in the eighth inning tonight as the San Francisco Giants rallied from a six-run deficit to a 7-6 victory over the Cincinnati Beds. 
The Giants fell behind 6-0 as Kirk Bueter struggled through the second-shortest start of his career, but came back with a couple of homers and Bonds' clutch hit. 
Bonds and Jeff Kent hit back-to-back homers off starter Jason Bere as San Francisco cut it to 6-4 in the fifth, and Marvin Benard sin­gled home another run in the sixth. 
San Francisco completed the comeback when Brent Mayne singled and scored on Rich Aurilia's double off loser Danny Graves. After Ellis Burks walked with two outs, manager Jack McKeon chose to bring in left-hander Gabe vVhite to face Bonds. 
Bonds, who was 3-for-5 career against White heading into that at-bat, fell behind 0-2 in the count before hitting an opposite-field, ground-rule double to left to put the Giants ahead. 
Julian Tavarez got the win with two scoreless innings. Robb Nen pitched the ninth for his second save, striking out Dmitri Young with runners on first and third to end the game. 
Although the ball usually doesn't carry at Cinergy Field until the tern pera tu re heats up, the Heds and Giants have combined for nine homers in the first two games. They've scored 32 runs in all, 19 of them on homers. 
Barry Larkin and Brian Johnson homered as the Reds went up 6-0 against Rueter, who had never lost to them in seven career starts. The left­hander was 5-0 in six previous starts against Cincinnati with a 2.04 ERA. 
He gave up six runs on eight hits and two walks in only 1 2­3 innings. His only shorter start came on May 15, 1994, for Montreal, when he retired onlv one St. Louis batter before leaving. In both cases, he wound up with no decision. 
Once Bueter left the game, the Heds stopped hitting. Cincinnati managed only two hits off the Giants' bullpen, which had the best ERA in the major leagues last season. 
Braves 11 Phillies 3 
Greg Maddux hit his first homer since 1992 and also had a two-run single during an eight-run fourth inning, leading the Atlanta Braves 

over the Philadelphia Phillies l 1-'.{ tonight. 
Maddux became the first pitcher to get two hits in an inning since Todd Stottlemyre did it for St. Louis against Pittsburgh on June 30. 199(>. 
Maddux (1-0l pitched six innings and allowed one run and eight hits. He walked none and struck out five. 
Dcrrin Ebert made his major league debut and pitched three innings for a save. The 22-year-old lefty allowed two runs. 
Hyan Klesko and Brian Jordan also homered and Chipper Jones had three hits in the Braves' 16-hit attack. 
Maddux led off the fourth against Chad Ogea (0-1) by hitting his first home run for the Braves into the left-field stands. It was the third homer of his career and first since April 20, 1992, when he hit one off Philadelphia's Kyle Abbott while with the Chicago Cubs. 
Jordan, who also hit a home run in Monday's season-open­ing 7-4 loss to the Phillies, hit a three-run homer in Atlanta's big inning. The Braves got eight hits off Ogea and reliever Mike Grace. including Maddux's single. 
Jordan, who played for St. Louis before signing a $40 million, five-year free agent deal with the Braves during the off-season, went 2-for-3 with a pair of walks and is 5­for-7 (.714) in two games. 
The eight runs were the most scored by Atlanta in one inning since they scored nine times in the first inning against the New York Mets on Sept. 17, 1997. 
Klesko, who went 2-for-2 with a walk, hit a two-run homer off Ogea in a three-run second inning. 
Ogca, traded by Cleveland for right-hander Jerry Spradlin in November, was tagged for seven hits, seven runs and three homers in 3 1­3 innings in his NL debut. The right-hander. who won two games in the 1997 ·world Series, also walked five and struck out two. 
The Phillies scored off Maddux in the second on con­secutive singles by Bobby Abreu, Mike Lieberthal and Desi Relaford. 
Maddux faced the Phillies twice last season, giving up only one earned run in 16 innings but the best he could do was a loss and a no-deci­sion as the Braves lost both his starts to Philadelphia ace Curt Schilling, who beat Atlanta on Monday. 
Mets 12 Marlins 3 

Mike Piazza hit a two-run homer and Rick Heed pitched 
six strong innings to help the New York Mets beat the Florida Marlins 12-3 Tuesday night. 
The Mets. who stranded 14 runners in an opening day loss to Florida, this time raced to a 7-0 lead against Livan Hernandez (0-1). 
Edgardo Alfonzo doubled twice and scored twice for New York, and Rey Ordonez drove in two runs with a single and a sacrifice fly. 
Heed (1-0) retired the first 11 batters, and by the time he gave up a hit, Hf'rnandez was out of the game. Reed, who departed with a 9-1 lead, allowed four hits and walked two. 
Allen Watson pitched the final three innings for his first major league save. He also had the last of New York's 13 hits. 
Hernandez, who struggled in spring training, gave up seven runs, six earned, in 4 2-3 innings. 
Preston \Vilson, part of the trade that sent Piazza from Florida to the Mets last sea­son, hit a two-run homer in the ninth. 
Alfonzo doubled in the first and came home on John Olerud's single to give the Mets a 1-0 lead. 
New York made it 5-0 in the second. Ordonez singled home a run, and Rickey Henderson doubled home two more. With two out, Henderson stole third and continued home when catcher Jorge Fabregas threw the ball into left field. 
Alfonzo doubled and Piazza homered in the fifth to knock out Hernandez. 
Brian McRae had an RBI triple in the sixth and scored on Ordonez's sacrifice f1y. The Mets added two runs in the seventh on Robin Ventura's RBI single and Jermaine Allensworth's sacrifice f1y. 
Roger Cedeno drove in New York's final run with a groundout in the ninth. 
Todd Dunwoody doubled leading off the fifth for Florida's first hit. He later scored on Fabregas' infield single. 
The Marlins, who beat New York with a polished perfor­mance on opening day, gave up two unearned runs and blundered on the bases when Wilson was picked off taking a big turn at second base on a groundout. 
Pirates 8 Expos 2 

Jason Schmidt allowed one hit over seven innings -Jose Vidro's pinch-hit single start­ing the sixth -and Brian Giles homered and drove in three runs as the Pittsburgh Pirates beat the Montreal Expos 8-2 tonight. 
Schmidt gave up a run before he surrendered a hit as the Expos scored in the first inning on Wilton Cuerrero's walk, stolen base and rookie second baseman ·warren Morris' throwing error on Orlando Cabrera's routine grounder. 
But Schmidt (1-0), a some­times streaky pitcher whose seven-game winning streak last season was followed by an eight-game losing streak, didn't come close to allowing a hit until Vidro singled up the middle. 
Schmidt often was victimized by the Pirates' unsettled defense last season, but he didn't let it get to him this time, retiring 20 of the next 22 hitters after Morris' error. Brad Fullmer walked with two outs in the fourth, but was thrown out attempting to steal by catcher Kendall. 
Schmidt struck out six and walked two before being lifted after 95 pitches. 

It was an especially domi­nating performance for Schmidt considering he pitched only once against major league hitters in the final 2 1/2 weeks of spring training. Schmidt strained his right groin March 17 and didn't pitch again against m aj or Ieag u e rs u n ti 1 Thursday, when he gave up four runs in 4 1-3 innings against Philadelphia. 
Schmidt, an .090 career hit­ter, also helped himself with a run-scoring single in a three­run third inning that chased starter Carl Pavano, who allowed six runs and seven hits over two-plus innings. 
Giles went 3-for-3 and walked twice while reaching base five times. He singled in a run in the first ahead of Kevin Young's triple, then singlnd to start a three-run third inning that included Brant Brown's two-run single. 

Young's drive in the first inning appeared to glance off the auxiliary scoreboard behind the left field wall, but third base umpire Randy Marsh ruled it struck the inner wall in the field of the play. 
Orlando Merced homered off Mike Williams in the ninth. 
Padres 4 Rockies 3 
The San Diego Padres raised the 1998 NL pennant today. then found the offense they couldn't muster in Mexico two days earlier. 
Tony Gwynn had two hits and scored twice and Wally Joyner. who took over the cleanup spot after the depar­ture of Ken Caminiti, went 3­for-4 with two RBIs as the Padres beat the Colorado Rockies 4-3 in their home opener. 

Playing at Qualcomm Stadium for thn first time since being swept in the World Se r in s hy t h c N (~ w York Yankees, the Padn~s drnw an announced crowd of 61,247, their largest regular-season crowd. · The attendanc(~ appeared generous, given tlw large number of empty seats in the outfield sections on the gloomy afternoon. 
These two teams played in the season opener Sunday night in Monterrey, Mexico, with the Hockies winning 8-2. 

Sterling Hitchcock, MVP of San Diego's NL championship series win over Atlanta, pitched a steady 5 1-3 innings for the win. He allowed one earned run and three hits, struck out seven and walked 
four. 
Trevor Hoffman, who con­verted 53 of 54 chances last year, drew the biggest ovation of the day when he came on in the ninth, accompanied by AC/DC's Hell's Bells. Ile pitched a perfect inning to earn his first save. 
Pedro Astacio took just his second loss in night career decisions agflinst San Diego, allowing four runs and six hits in six innings. He struck out six and walked two. 
Aftnr losing most of th,dr power with the trade of Greg Vaughn (50 homers) and the departure of Caminiti (29 homers), the Padres unveilNI their new offensive philosophy in the three-run fourth. 
Reggie Sanders, acquired from Cincinnati for Vaughn in part because of his spend, sin­gled with OIH' out in thn fourth. then took third on Tony Gwynn's hit-and-run sin­gle. Wally Joyner's hit-and­run single moved Gwynn to third, and he scornd on Jim Lnyritz's grounder. Consecutive wild pitches by Astacio allowed Joyner to take third, then score. 
Gwynn singled leading off the sixth, then scored on Joyner's double into thf~ gap in left-center. Joyner ranked sec­ond in the majors last ynar with a .4] 2 average with run­ners in scoring position. 
San Diego staked Hitchcock to a 3-0 lead, but Colorado scored two runs in the sixth. Kirt Manwaring had an HBI double and another run scored when shortstop Chris Gomez booted Todd ll•~lton's grounder. 
The Hockies scored a bizarre run in the eighth, Helton dou­bled and took third on Manwaring's single. Center fielder Eric Owens' throw to the plate hit Helton 's bat, lay­ing in the dirt in front of the plate, and bounced into foul territory, allowing Helton score. Ow£rns was charged with an error. 
Classifieds  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. ar the Norre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
,_____N_o_T_Ic_E_s__ll.___F_o_R_RE_N_T_  5/P__.  6 BDRM HOMES NEAR CAM­US. FURN. 272-6551  I hate my job COUNl DOWN TO THE Trouser Patrol? Sounds like some •• LEWIS CRUSH " sort of gay police squad to me. Beth, 3DAYS I look forward to theology. will YOU be invited? Either that or a bunch of chicks  
Come see No Hope go down in a BED 'N BREAKFAST blaze of gloy this Sunday at 12:30 REGISTRY p.m. 219-291-7153 House For Rent ILOST & FOUND I 4-5 Bedroom Lost: 100 CDs that were in a black Close lo Campus CaseLogic carrying case. Lost in Includes: Dishwasher, LaFortune the night of 2/26/99. Washer/Dryer, Fridge, Stove. Monetary reward being offered if Remodeling Kitchen in spring. found. No questions asked. Please call Brian al 4·1126 w/ any RENT REDUCED! info. Call 289-4712  N2I C FOR SALE EW Rates Phone Cards 82 min. $20 call 258-4805 TICKETS need graduation tickets! all Kelly @243·8932 PERSONAL  Mike Amy rules. Amy rules. There's a table over there that is When you need copies ... pretty interesting. You should find We're OPEN!!! You should have been here when some neat stuff over there. the clerk was here. THE COPY SHOP I hate working Tuesdays, no TNB .. Noah is looking for jailbait on the LaFortune Student Center Internet Can anyone stop Red Dog, the 631-COPY Beast. Cap'n Beverage, Austrailian C-for No Game and the Big Sweaty Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight I think our grooves have been tern-Machine? Fri: 7:30am•7:00pm porarily displaced. However, I think No Hope Sat: Noon·6:00pm we will finding them again soon. Sun: Noon-Midnight -Your Aoomate NBA, NFL, PGA Yeah, we're jerks ...  

J 
Wednesday, April 7, 1999 page 19
The Observer • SPORTS 
¦ MEN'S TENNIS 
ND comes back to beat Purdue 
Special to the Observer 
The 26th-ranked Notre Dame men's tennis team ral­lied from a 3-0 deficit to beat 47th-ranked Purdue 4-3 on· Monday at the Purdue Varsity Courts. 
After losing the doubles point and the first two singles matches, the Irish won four straight three-set matches, including a sweep of the top three singles spots, to improve to 12-7 with their ninth-straight win over tho Boilermakers. The loss takes Purdue to 12-3. 
Purdue won the doubles points to lead 1-0 with wins at No. 2 and No. 3 doubles. The Boiters then used wins at No. 4 and No. 5 singles to build a 3-0 lead, needillg just one win in the final four matches to beat Notre Dame. 
"All of us realized that we had four three-set matches to go, so we knew we had a chance to win." senior Andy Warford said. "We all picked up our intensity and the crowd started yelling more." 
A Purdue win would have been the Boilermakers' first over the Irish since 1989. 
"The Purdue guys realized [their chance to win]," Warford said. "They had an attitude of arrogance after the doubles match." 
Senior captain Brian Patterson began the come­back as he held off Jamie Gordon 6-2. 5-7, 6-3 at No. 2 
singles for his 10th-consecu­tive singles win. 
Junior All-American and second-ranked Ryan Sachire cut the lead to 3·2 with a 6-2, 6-7 (4). 6-4 win over Derek Myers at No. 1 singles to improve his record to 32-7 this year. · 
Sophomore Matt Daly knot­ted the match by beating Purdue's 61 st-ranked Jason Marshall 7 -6 (8}, 4-6, 6-1 at No. 3 singles for his ·first win over a ranked opponent this year. 
Irish senior Andy Warford then completed Notre Dame's comeback with a dramatic 6­1. 5-7, 7-6 (4) victory over Derek Miller at No. 6 singles to win the clinching match for the Irish f:or the third time this season. 
In the third set. Warford changed his game plan to pick up the crucial points. 
..At that point, J changed my game style and started attacking more," Warford said. 
A win over Purdue should help Irish confidence. 
"Purdue is solid in the region." Warford said. ..After a few losses to high ranked opponents at the Blue-Gray Classic, it was good for our confidence to pick up this win." 
The Irish close out the 1999 regular season at home with matches against Ball State today at 3 p.m .. and Michigan on April 14, at 3 p. m. 
¦ SOFTBALL 

Softball 
continued from page 19 
the loss after relieving starting pitcher Sharron in the third inning. 
In game two, the Irish got off to a fast start, scoring three runs in the top of the ffrst inning. Alkire and Lemire both hit HBI doubles and Myers added an HBI single. The Irish increased their lead to 7-0 before giving up two runs. After adding one more run to their hmd, Angela Bessolo retired the Eagles in order in the bottom of the sev­enth to secure the victory. 
The offense was well balanced for the Irish as seven players had an RBI. Moschcl (5-1) earned the victory for the Irish, giving up only two runs while recording three strikeouts. 
Up next for the Irish is a dou­bleheader against \Nestern !\1ichigan today at 4 p.m. at Ivy field. 

Sharon recieves Big East pitching honor 
Special to The Observer 
Sophomore pitcher Jennifer Sharron of Agoura Hills, Calif., has been named Big East Co­Pitcher of the Weck for her performances in last week­end's sweep of Pittsburgh in the 1999 Big East opener. She shares the award with University of Connecticut pitcher Megan Biddle and is the first Irish pitcher to receive such an honor this season. 
Sharron, the 1998 Big East Pitcher of the Year, made a successful return against Pittsburgh after injuring her ankle against Purdue on March 2 3 and missing nine games. She picked up both Notre Dame victories over the Pan the rs an d hH rl n O ()() 
WA Ar~ ObSports 

earned-run average, allowed two hits, no runs, and struck out nine in 6.. 2 innings of work. 
As the starting pitcher in the first game of the doublehead­er. Sharron struck out six of the 13 batters she faced and had a no-hitter going until she was relieved in the top of the fifth inning. In the second game against Pittsburgh, she relieved starting pitcher Angela Bes-solo in the middle or the third inning and allowed just two hits over the next two plus innings her earn her 
· eighth win of the season. Sharron, ,vho is 8-6 overall in 1999, became the first Notre Dame pitcher and first fresh­man to ever win the Big East pitcher or the year award last year. The two-time all-state selection at Thousand Oaks High School in California also was named to the Big East's first and all-rookie teams and received Big East Co-Pitcher of the \Neck honors April 2 7. 1998 for her two shutout wins over Villanova. 
Tip the Kess Sports. l@nd.edu 
THE LANGUAGE OF BRAZIL, LATIN AMERICA'S, 
LARGEST AND MOST POPULOUS COUNTRY, A 
LAND OF RICH LITERATURE, 

FASCINATING MUSIC, NATURAL BEAUTY AND 
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES 
Learn fast: Intensive course Fulfill the language requirement in 2 semesters 
Contact: Department of Romance Languages 
University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
Ah£ub-:;MusrQVE 
'-­

ORGANUM AND (HANT IN HONOR OF SAINTS 
~cbola :fflusicor11111 
9:30 p.m. Wed., Apr. 7, 1999 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 


Free and open to the public. 
page 20 The Observer• SPORTS Wednesday, April 7, 1999 
three ahead of current short­"The first one on Saturday was stop Brant Ust. a tremendous comeback. In the
Baseball 

"He hadn't played in a month second game we got a big lead and the first two swings he took and held them off at the end.
continued from page 20 

were home runs. He really gave We were able to get four big 
Coach Paul Mainieri was the team a big spark." said conference wins for ourselves." pleasantly surprised with Mainieri of \Vagner. On Monday, the Irish once Golom's play. The Irish fell behind 7-2 early again proved their never-say­
"\Ve decided to give him a in the first game before Ust dic attitude in a 6-4 come from rhance and he stepped up and began the fourth inning with a behind victory over Detroit. had a couple of big games for single. Wagner, first baseman \Vith the win. they are now a us. He had big hits in both Jeff Felker and left fielder Matt perl'ect 7-0 at Eck Stadium. games against Providence Nussbaum follo,ved with Included in their 21 wins are 14 \\•hich gave us a great opportu­homers in three consecutive at­victories by less than three nity to win those games," said bats. After Cooke hit an infield runs, including five one-nm \etainieri. "It was great thing to pop-up, Perconte swatted his wins. see by a young kid who was first home run of the season Heilman pitched for the Irish waiting his turn. He took advan­over the right field fence to put on three days rest and recorded ...tagP of an opportunity and real­the Irish back in the game at 7-his sixth straight victory. He ly inspired the team." 6. had nine strikeouts and allowed 
Tim Kalita started the game Steve Stanley came up next three earned runs before John for the Irish before Drew Duff with a triple to right-center and Corbin came in the ninth. retir­came in relief to record his sec­scored on a single by fellow ing the side en route to his sixth ond victory of the season. Duff freshman Paul O'Toole. O'Toole save of the season. tossed the final three innings scored on a sacrifice fly by Alec This game was close through­and allowed only one run on Porzel and the inning ended out, with Detroit jumping out to four hits with two strikeouts. with a 9-7 Irish lead. Scott an early 3-0 lead and then a 4-3 
Big East rival Connecticut Cavey and Mike Naumann com­lead in the seventh. However. came to town on Saturday for a bined for an eleven hitter for as has been the case the whole doubleheader. The series was the Irish. season, the Irish were not going characterized by some huge The second inning proved to to fold easily. offensive numbers for both be the turning point for the Porzel, a sophomore second teams: nine home runs, 49 hits Irish in the second game baseman, led the Irish attack in and 95 total bases combined in against Connecticut. The Irish this game, with a lead off the Irish's 11-7 and 11-8 wins scored five times in the inning, homer in the top of the eighth over the Huskies. highlighted by HBI's from which put them ahead for good 
Senior designated hitter Jeff Cooke. O'Toole and Porzel. 5-4. He finished the day three Wagner returned to the Irish They expanded the lead to 10-5 for four with two RBI's and two throwing over his pitch count but it just wasn't our day."
lineup in fine fashion Saturday. in the sixth inning behind runs scored to go along with his and the bullpen struggled to The Irish host Howling GreenWagner. batting .517 on the O'Toole's RBI triple, Ust's RBI fourth home run of the season. 
keep them in the game. today at Eck Stadium at 5:05 
season prior to being injured single and Nussbaum's RBI Ust doubled to leftfield next, 
The Wildcats' bats came alive p.m. Bowling Green brings afive weeks ago. hit the first groundout. Felker's solo home then proceeded to third on in the bottom of the sixth with 12-11 record into the game andpitch offered to him against the run in the eighth provided the vVagner's pop up to first base. 
11 runs scored on nine hits. Ten have won six of their last eightHuskies and sent it over the Irish with their last run of the Felker then doubled to left cen­
straight batters scored for games. Bob Niemet and Len
centerfield fence. He also start­day. ter, scoring Ust and providing Northwestern in the inning. The Elias are the hitting stars fored the Irish rally in the fourth The weekend was crucial for the Irish with their 6-4 victory. 
Irish cut the lead to 12-9 but Bowling Green with batting
inning with another homer to the Irish, according to coach Northwestern proved to ·be 
the Wildcats continued its averages over .380 and slug­
left-center. Mainieri, particularly because too much for the Irish to handle 
strong hitting en route to their ging percentages both near
In the second game, \Vagner the wins came against Big East in Tuesday's 20-10 slugfest. 
eighth victory of the season. .635.
added his third homer, clearing teams. The Irish were ahead 2-1 in a "It was pretty tough cond i­This game begins a nine gamethe football practice field. For "It was exciting baseball. The pitcher's duel entering the bot­tions to pitch in and they just hit home stretch for the Irish,the day. he ,vas four for five two wins on Thursday. which tom of the sixth inning before 


a few more balls up into the including weekend games
with two walks. Wagner is the we won in our last at-bats was the offenses exploded. Irish wind than we did." said against Pittsburgh and Boston career leader in home runs for a tremendous show of charac­starter Tim Kalita was taken Mainieri, "We made a good College which will be pivotal inthe Irish with 46, placing him ter for our team," said Mainieri, out in the fifth inning after comeback to get it back to 12-9 determining the Big East race. 

Who's Buving? 

College students have varied habits when it comes to consumption of alcohol. Most of the alcohol is consumed by a small group. The frequent, heavier drinkers consume 68% of all alcohol sol_d to college students. Even more surprising, 91 % of all alcohol 1s consumed by 2 out of 5 students. 
Source: Weschler, Henry. The College Alcohol Study 1998 CAS Report, Harvard School of Public Health; Boston, MA (1998) 
WHICH ARE vou;t
D Non-drinker 

men: 4 or fewer drinks in a sitting
D Light to Moderate 

women: 3 or fewer drinks in a sitting Drinker . . men: five or more drinks in a row Occas1onal Heavier women: four or more drinks in a row
. 

Drinker at least once in the past 2 weeks 
men: five or more drinks in a row women: four or more drinks in a row
D Frequent Heavier 

at least 3 times in the past 2 weeks 
Drinker 

College students spend around $5.5 billion annuallV on alcohol. 
This is mor~than what college students spend on soft drinks, tea, milk, juice, coffee and books combined. This figure reflects that stude1~ts tend to go for cost cutters, price specials, and cheaper, lower-quality beverages. One brewing company alone takes in $1.37 billion annually in sales to American college students. 
. E b D F and Hacker GA Last Callfior High-Risk Bar Promotions That Target College 
Source. ren erg, . . , • •, SIUJents, Center for Science in the Public Interest; Washington, DC (1997) 
Even if you're not a heavy drinker, you probably don't realize ho~ much money you spend on drinking every week. Pick a month and use this handy weekly calendar to track how much your drinking habits cost you. Before you begin, make a wish. Choose something ~ou'd re~lly l~ve to have or do that is out of financial reach right now--and mclude its estimated cost. 
Wish__________ cost $_______ 
# of drinks  Price per drink  Daily Total  
Sunday  $  
Monday  $  
Tuesday  $  
Wednesday  $  
Thursday  $  
Friday ;, Saturday  $ $  
Weekly Total  

At the end of the month, add up the grand total of the money you spent on drinks, and compare it to the cost of your wish. Think you might retool your budget? 
~ 
-
Wednesday, April 7, 1999 

The Observer• SPORTS page 21 
¦ MEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL .:. 
¦ NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION 
Blue Devil jumps to Mizzou Iverson returns, 
Associated Press .
Snyder, a native of the Pacific only other candidate besides 
Quin Snyder, the top assistant to Mike Krzyzewski at Duke for the past four years. has been selected as the new coach at Missouri, The Associated Press has learned. 
A source close to Snyder, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Tuesday night that the 32-year-old former Duke point guard had agreed to take the job after meeting with Missouri officials earlier in the day. 
The school has called a news conference for Wednesday morning to name the replace­ment for Norm Stewart, who retired suddenly last Thursday after 32 years at Missouri. 
Snyder met with Missouri ath­letic director Mike Alden in Detroit last Friday. The source said the two met again Tuesday in Kansas City. 
Northwest, played at Duke from 1986-89 and the Blue Devils went to the Final Four in 1986, 1988 and 1989. He is third on school's career assist list with 575. 
He was given a lot of credit for the developement of sophomore point guard William Avery, who led the Blue Devils to a 37-2 record and into the national championship game this season. 
After meeting with Alden on Friday, Snyder said he was not entertaining other offers. 
''I'll say I was very impressed with Missouri," he said. 
Snyder emerged as the leading candidate after former New Jersey Nets coach John Calipari took himself out of the running. 
Tulsa coach Bill Self also said Tuesday evening that he had withdrawn his name from con­sideration. Missouri assistant Kim Anderson was left as the 
1in e Friday night against
¦ NATIONL FOOTBALL LEAGUE 
Cleveland. Iverson didn't play the second half of that game and missed the Sixers' game

Elway weighs possible returfl" 
in Toronto on Sunday because 
Associated Press 
DENVER 
Having. missed four games with various injuries last year, John Elway's health is playing a big factor as he tries to decide whether to retire or return for a 17th NFL season with the Denver Broncos. 
"The bottom line is whether I can do it physically or not." Elway said Tuesday while attending a news conference for golf's Celebrity Players Tour. "I'm always going to want to play football, but the big question is whether I can do it physicaJly. and that is what I go back and forth with all the time. 
«I've been a football player all of my Hfe and I'll die a football 

player, but at sometime you've got to start listening to your body, That's whatl'm strug­gling with.'' .. . 
Elway. 38 •• said he has not set a deadHne for his decision. Reports had said he would decide by April 5 ··-· Denver's first day of ofl'sea.so1,1 cQndition" ing -.. or the April 17NFLdraft. 
Elway announcedhis decision to return for a 16th season last June. Injuries to his hamstring. back and ribs kept him out of four games and parts of two others in the first half of the season. But he was able to lead the Broncos to their second straight Super Bowl title. 
The lure of a third champi­onship has caused Elway to consider another encore. 
"I'm still enjoying the last 
Snyder to be interviewed by Alden. 
Alden has said he wants to 
Sixers win, 96-87 
move quickly in signing a coach. 
Wednesday is the first day of the late signing period and it contin­
ues through May 15. 
Calipari, who led Massachusetts to the Final Four in 1996, was fired by the Nets on March 15 after the team started the season 3-17. He removed his name from consideration after talking with Alden and others on Saturday while visiting in-laws in Osceola, Mo. 
Calipari's agent, Craig Fenech, said Missouri officials had offered Calipari the job. 
"He considered it pretty seri­ously but decided it wasn't the right fit for him at the time,", Fenech said Tuesday. "In the end, he just wasn't prepared to pull the trigger. He doesn't know what he wants to do." 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA 
Allen Iverson was right back where he wants to be -on the court and nowhere near Larry Brown. 
Iverson, playing his first game since a heated exchange with his coach, scored 27 points and played 46 minutes Tuesday night as the Philadelphia 76ers beat the Milwaukee Bucks 95-87. 
Iverson, the NBA's leading scorer, reached his average on a free throw with 38 sec­onds left in the game, his only point of the fourth quarter. 
It was Iverson's first game since he and Brown exchanged words on the side-
of a right thigh injury.

{Super BowU," he said. 'Tm 
Iverson and Brown met and

enjoying my kids and enjoying a 
made up at practice Monday,

little bit oflife, and I'm going to 
and Iverson made a surprise

continue todo that for a while. I 
return to the lineup Tuesday

always beUeve the longer I'm 
night.

going to take, the better off I'm 
Limping noticeably at times,

going to be, and chances are 
Iverson still showed why he

the right decision I'm going to 
belongs on the court. He sat

make." . . . 
out only 16 seconds in the 

. . He and Dan Ma:mo are. the 
first half, played the whole

onlyquarterbacks m NFL histo­
third quarter and rested for 

ry to throw for 50,000 yards, 
only two minutes early in the

and both are sure to be first-· 
fourth.

ballot selections for the Hall of 
He had four assists and was

Fame. 
9-of-10 from the foul line, bol­

"I'm thinking about it all the 
stering the Sixers' gaudy free

time" Elway said. "It goes back 
throw advantage. Philadelphia

and forth all the time. I don't 
made a season~high 36 free

feel pressured to make the 
throws on 42 attempts, while

decision other than I feel bad 
the Bucks were 22-of*27.

that my tean:imates ha1:e to 
Theo Ratliff had 18 points

answer questions about it all 
and Harvey Grant had 10

the time." 
rebounds for the Sixers, who 
snapped a two-game losing streak with only their third 
victory in 10 games. Glenn Hob inso n had 2 2 

F~reseri-Ls ­
points for the Bucks, who lost their second straight. Leading 89-79 on Eric Snow's twisting layup with 
4:45 left, the Sixers still need­

:R-eggie Life 
ed the Bucks to miss some big shots down the stretch to hold
Reggie Life, an 
on. The Sixers were milking

internationally acclaimed 
an 89-85 lead when theyfilm producer will be here 
on IVednesdar, April 1" for 
made two straight turnovers, 
but Haywoode Workman 
missed an open 15-footer and 
Ray Allen missed a jumper. 
Aaron McKie hit a clutch 
jumper -as Iverson was get­
ting up from a hard collision 
on a pick-to give 
Philadelphia a 91-85 lead with 
1: 33 left. George Lynch hit two free throws, and Iverson made one of two before the Bucks started heaving 3­pointers and fouling in vain. 
The havoc Iverson can 
wreak when he's on the court 
was never more apparent 
than during one of his amaz­
ing spurts late in the third 
quarter. 
First, Iverson drove into the lane and was clobbered by former teammate Tim Thomas, but no foul was called. With eyes peeled wide, Iverson stared down referee Bennie Adams and gave him an earful as they walked downcourt. 
Iverson always seems to go on a roll when a call goes against him, and that's what he did. With Milwaukee lead­ing 60-58, Iverson scored 11 points during an 18-10 run that closed the third period with Philadelphia taking a 76­70 lead. 
He made an impromptm bank shot from the top of the key to give him 17 points; four free throws for 21 points; a 3­pointer giving him 24 points; and two more free throws for 26 points. He also mixed in an incredible assist, triple-faking before dishing to Grant for a jumper. 
The most impressive move . resulted in Iverson's driving finger-roll slipping off the rim, only to get tipped in by Ratliff to give the Sixers a 71-68 lead with one minute left in the third. Iverson got the ball on the wing, sized up Michael Curry and blew past Curry and Ervin Johnson, somehow getting his shot off almost directly underneath the rim. 
Curry mugged Iverson around the neck for a foul and two free throws on the next possession. 

College ofScience Student Council Presents the Distinguished Scholar Lecture Series 
"How Bees Find Their Virtual Honey" 
Prof. Harald E. Esch Department of Biological Sciences 

Thursday, April 8, 1999 
8:00 pm 141 DeBartolo Hall 
Refreshments Immediately Following 
e 
r 
r 
a 
C 
e 


a special event "roundtable discussion on "Doubles." Starting at 5:30 pm at the 
__,

CSC which is also part of "Interrace Forum" sponsored by the Office of Multicultural Student Affairs. Anyone interested is welcomed~! Join us for 
FREE DINNER!! 
Featuring: ''Doubles" 
Doubles is an award-winning documentary on the issues surrounding people of Japanese and American heritages growing up in two societies. It gives a sharp and se_11s!tive focus on the problem of '"race" in a context of both soc1etaes. 
KS\'!' Office of \luhicultural Student Affairs 6} l-6841 
Sponsored hy the 

01,ice of Mu!ucultmal Student Affairs. Center for US-Japanese Business Studies. Ccnte1 for Asian Studies. Asian Anwrican Assoc1anon. Kroc lnstllute 
....____... 
,_ 
Wednesday, Apn1 7, 1999

The Observer. PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
page 22 f 


Campus Ministry This Week + 

't 
i' 
I[ 
II 
i !;, Ii 
It 
I\ 
It 
~ 
• 

~ 
~ 
II 



' ' I I 
j 
1 

I 
I 
i I 
I 
1 
l j 

. ,II OFFICE OF 
~ 
CAMPUS MINISTRY 
103 Hesburgh Library 631-7800 112 Badin Hall 631-5242 Basilica Offices 631-8463 Web Page: http://www.nd.edu./-ministry/
r: 
Continuing week of April 4 103 Hesburgh Library, 112 Badin Hall, or see your rector 
Freshinan Retreat #23 (April 9-10) Sign-Up 
Targeted Dorms: Badin, Breen-Phillips, Keough, Knott, Lyons, Pasquerilla East, Stanford and Welsh Family 
Continuing week of April 4, 112 Badin Hall 
Sign-up for· 'J\'Vhat's The Future of This Relationship?'' Sunday, April 11 
An opportunity to explore issues and questions facing couples in significant relationships. 
Sunday, April 11, 4:00 p.m., Sorin Hall Chapel 
Rejoice Black Catholic Mass 
Celebrant: Rev. Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C. 
Sunday, April 11, 1:00-5:00 p.m., Hospitality Room, South Dining Hall 
''What's The Future of This Relationship?'' 
An opportunity to explore issues and questions facing couples in significant relationships. 
Monday, April 12, 7:30 p.m., Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Sacrament of Confirmation 
Join us in the celebration of the Sacrament of Confirmation where 56 members of the Notre Dame community will complete their full initiation into the Catholic Church. Bishop John D'Arey presiding. 
Keeping the Faith 
A Conversation of faith and pop culture 
Saturday, April 10, 8 p.m.-12:00 midnight, Reeker's, South Dining Hall A coffeehouse featuring Justin Dunn, Danielle Skorich and many others. 
N.D. Faith Feud: we asked the questions and you gave the answers. Now find out what the surveys say! Play the Feud! 
Tuesday, April 13, 7 p.m.-9 p.m., Lafortune Ballroom Tom Beaudoin, auth~r of "Virtual Faith" speaks about young adult spirituality and its relationship to movies, music and pop culture. 
Wednesday, April 14, 7 p.m., Lafortune Ballroom David Wilcox in concert. Singer, songwriter, folk-rock artist and storyteller. Opening acts: Justin Dunn and Danielle Skorich . 
... 

Wednesdy, April 7, 1999 page 23
The Observer• SPORTS 
¦ MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL ¦ WOMEN'S TENNIS 
..
Average salary nears 2 million Notre Dame blanks .. 
Associated Press opening-day rosters and the Baltimore had the highest pay­
Purdue and Illinois 
disabled list. It was nearly five roll, the Orroles' spent 7 1/2 
NEW YORK 
The biggest escalation in seven years pushed baseball's average salary above $1.7 mil­lion on opening day, ac<;ording to a study by The Associated Press. 
Baltimore outfielder Albert Belle was the highest-paid player on opening day for the third straight season, earning $11,949,794. Boston pitcher Pedro Martinez was second at $11 million, followed by Los Angeles pitcher Kevin Brown ($10,714,286) and Atlanta pitcher Greg Maddux ($10.6 million). 
Mark McGwirc, last season's star with a record 70 homers, was 11th at $8,333,333. Sammy Sosa. who chased McGwire all summer long and finished with 66 ,homers, was tied for ninth at $9 million. 
Tim World Series champion New York Yankees opened with baseball's highest payroll ever, $85.1 million -an aver­age of $3.04 million per player. 
Los Angeles was second at $79.2 million, followed by Baltimore ($78.5 million). Texas ($7 4. 9 million), Atlanta ($73.5 million) and Cleveland ($68.9 million). 
Arizona moved up from 21st at $31.6 million at the end of last season to seventh at $65.9 million. 
At the other end were three teams below $20 million: Montreal was last at $17.3 mil­lion, Florida was 29th at $18.8 million and Minnesota was 28th at $19.1 million. 
The average salary of $1,720,050, easily a record, was up 19.3 percent over last year's opening-day average of $1.441.406. according to the AP study, which examinnd the contracts of 830 players on times the 4.2 percent rise prior to last season and the largest increase since a 21.7 percent rise prior to the 1992 season. 

With an increase of 16.3 per­cent next year, the average would top $2 million for the first time. 
In comparison, the NBA 's average is about $2.8 million this season, the NHL's is $1.17 million (using a mixture of U.S. and Canadian dollars), and the NFL's is $1 million. 
"We've been going through all those over the past few months, but I want to see the final numbers before I make any judgments," commissioner Bud Selig said. 
An indication of why small and middle markets no longer can compete can be seen at the top of the salary scale. The number of players earning $8 million or higher more than doubled from 10 to 23, while the total at $9 million or more tripled from three to 10. 
The number of players at $1 million or more rose from 317 to 348 and the percentage of millionaires in the majors rose from 37.7 percent to 41.9. The number at $2 million or higher rose from 216 to 254, and $4 million players shot up from 98 to 128. The $5 million club swelled from 63 to 91. 
Los Angeles and the New York Mets each had the most millionaires at '18, with Baltimore, Boston and the New York Yankees at 17. Florida had the fewest with four, the Chicago White Sox had five, and Kansas City, Minnesota and Montreal had six each. 
The gap between the top and bottom decreased somewhat this year. The Yankees' payroll was 5 1/2 times that of Montreal; last year, when times more than the Expos.. 
Total payroll rose from $1.21 biJlion to $1.43 billion. The median salary -the point at which an equal number of players are above and below ­rose from $500,000 to a record $700,000. It dropped to $275,000 in 1995 following the end of the 7 1/2-month strike before resuming its rise. 
There were 68 players at the $200,000 minimum, which is higher than the average prior to 1982. Last year, ther.e were 66 at the minimum -then $170,000 -on opening day. 
In reality, the amount the Yankees are spending on play­ers this year is more than $91.4 million because their payroll doesn't include the $2.5 million salary of Darryl Strawberry, who is on a minor league roster; $2.5 million they are paying toward the salary of Oakland pitcher Kenny Rogers; $500,000 they are paying Minnesota as part of last year's Chuck Knoblauch trade; $800,000 they are paying released infielder Dale Sveum; plus money they are paying Arizona as part of last month's Darren Holmes trade. 
The listed salary includes a player's 1999 salary plus a prorated share of any signing bonus or guaranteed income not attributed to a specific year. Contract figures were obtained by the AP from vari­ous player and management sources. 
· A different method of calcu­lation is used by baseball to determine the luxury tax. That method, which uses the aver­age annual value of contracts and is based on 40-man ros­ters. has the Dodgers with the highest payroll, followed by the Orioles and Yankees. 
~ ---------WHY NOT.... 
I 

Hometown: South Bend, Indiana 
I 

Favorite Sandwich: Hoosier Hot Brown 
I 

Nickname: Spaz
I :"I joined Holy Cross when I was 18. Why wait? 
1 ANSWER THE CALL--today!" 
I --Fr. Bill Wack, C.S.C., ND '89, '93, Associate Vocation Director I 

For more information on
I 

Holy Cross' one-year
I 

Candidate Program
I 
-contact:
I 

Fr. Jim King, C.S.C. or
I 

Fr. Bill Wack, C.S.C.
I 
1-6385
I 
vocation. l@nd.edu
I 

.. I ---. FOLLOW HIM .... ? 
¦ 

check out THEPLUNGEatvvvvw.nd.oou/,...,vcxntion 
ByWES JACOBS Sports Writer 
The 13th-ranked Notre Dame women's tennis team swept two dual meets last weekend, beating both No. 70 Purdue and Illinois State nine games .to nothing at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
With the two wins, the Irish moved to 15-6 overall, upping their Midwest win streak to 18 consecutive matches. 
"We didn't expect to win both matches 9-0, but we're obviously happy," said fresh­man Becky Varnum. 
Against Purdue, both Jen Hall and Kelly Zalinski pulled out exciting three-set wins after dropping their first sets in the number two and number five singles' matches to win 6-4 and 6-3, respectively, in the third and deciding sets. 
Michelle Dasso, ranked No. 8 nationally, was also pushed to three sets by Purdue's No. 1 Jennifer Embry before coming out on top 6-3 in the third set. To close the 6-0 singles sweep, Marisa Velasco, Varnum and Lindsay Green won matches in straight sets, defeating Shannon Taheny, Missy Fick and Linsey Fick, respectively. 
The doubles teams of Varnum/Velasco and Kim Guy/Sarah Scaringe each won close 8-6 matches at No. 1 and No. 3, and Green/Zalinski defeated Fick/\Valgenbach 8-5 to finish off the 9-0 sweep. 
"We had a little more experi­ence, and that enabled us to get that extra push," said Varnum. "We could all tell that their coach was really disappointed by the way it turned out." 
One of the more entertaining matches of the day was Zalinski's win over Lisa Walgenbach. After staking to a commanding five•games-to-one lead in the first set, Zalinski lost her composure and let the set slip away, losing 7-5. She bat­tled back, however, taking the final two sets by identical scores of 6-3. 

"Kelly really battled. She played really well to come back and win the match after losing the first set that way," said Varnum. 
If the Irish were fatigued after their first match, they showed no signs of it, coming right back and beating the Redbirds of Illinois State 9-0 after only an hour break. Notre Dame won all six singles matches in straight-set fashion and went on to lose only four doubles games. 
Because of rain, the meet was forced inside, and players had some additional time to rest. The short break enabled the Irish players to forget about Purdue and prepare for ISU. 
"It was definitely good to have Illinois State second. We wouldn't have played them first, because Purdue is a much better team and would have been tougher to play second," said Varnum. 
Dasso beat up on Naoko Moore in No. 1 singles 6-0, 6-1, and No. 61 Hall defeated Flora Karsai 6-3, 6-2. Velasco and Varnum won their matches with ease, and Guy jumped into the singles lineup to thrash Bridgette Zarazee 6-0, 6-0. At No. 6, Scaringe beat Larissa Fostiak 6-1, 6-1 to finish off singles. In doubles, the teams of Dasso/Hall and Green/Zalinski recorded 8-1 wins, and Guy/Scaringe pre­vailed 8-2. 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 

THURSDAY -SATURDAY, 
PRESENTS 

APRIL 15-17 at 8:00 P.M.
A VICTORIAN 

SUNDAY, APRIL 1f3 at
THRILLER 

2:30 P.M. 
LITTLE THEATRE 
For ticket information 
contact the Saint Mary's 
College Box Office at 
ANGEL 

284-4626. 
,.,,,_.... 
STREB T MO"',Col/Au
:.a (3'f!lf'} 


WEEKEND RACQUETBALL TOURNAMENT 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY APRIL 9 & APRIL 10 JOYCE CENTER Men's & Women's Divisions T-shirts to all Participants Bring Your Own Racquet Balls Will be Provided Refreshments Will be Served 
Register in Advance at ,Z3,.,.3/...~-= Deadline: Wednesday, April 7 $8.00 Fee 

page 24 The Observer. SPORTS 
¦ NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE 

Gandy tackles Steelers' holes 
Associated Press 
PITTSBUHGII 
Thi' Pittsburgh Steelers solved a big problem on the offonsive line today by signing left tackle Wayne Gandy to a four-vear contract, only to develop another when right tackle Justin Strzelczyk rein­jured his knee. 
Strzelczyk underwent his second knee operation in less than a vear after reinjuring the rigi1t knee ligament he tore in October, an injury that forcrd him out of the Steelers' final nine games. 
Strzelczyk was expected to return and challenge former 

High-tech grass out at BOB 
• 

Associated Pre~s 
PHOENIX 
Forget about that special strain of grass developed for Bank One Ballpark. The grass is greener this spring at the park affectionately known as BOB. 
This year, for the park's sec­ond season, the Arizona Diamondbacks have opted for a blend of bluegrass and rye grass. the same traditional turf that's used in ballparks across America. 
Last year marked the first time anyone had tried to haVf, a genuine grass field in a ballpark where the roof was closed at least half of the time. To make matters more difficult, the grass had to grow in a climate in which the summer temperature exceeded 115 degrees when the roof was open. 
The people who run the ball­park were in a constant balanc­ing act of providing ·enough sun for the grass while trying to deal with wear and tear and keeping the roof clos,~d early enough to make it comfortable for tlw fans by gametime. 
"I don't think people under­stand the magnitude of what took place here last year," head groundskeeper Grant Trenbeath said. "This was the very first of its kind." • 
There also was the problem of 
getting the grass to grow in the 

,1 early part of the baseball sea­son. The special DeAnza strain selected for the ballpark after three years of research doesn't do well until the minimum tem­perature reaches at least 70 degrees. After rejecting a proposal to install underground heat beneath the field during the off­season. Diamondbacks officials 
I,· decided to overseed the DeAnza 
i: 
first-round draft pick Jamain Stephens at right tackle, but now is out indefinitely. 
With training camp starting in 3 1/2 months and Strzelczyk facing months of rehabilita­tion, it is likely hfi will miss a significant portion of 1999. 
The Steelers signed the 6­foot-5, 300-pound. Gandy to a contract believed to b~ worth $14 million. 
Pittsburgh spent weeks courting Gandy, a durable player who will replace Will Wolford at left tackle. 
Gandy started the Hams' last 64 games but has never played in the playoffs, one reason he signed with 
Pittsburgh. The Steelers made six consecutive playoff appear­ances prior to last season. 
His signing puts the Steelers over the NFL salary cap. but they will drop back under the cap Wednesday when Wolford is expected to officially announce his retirement. 
\Volford, who played left guard before moving to left tackle last season to replace John Jackson, recently held a retirement party at his Kentucky home. But he did not officially notify the NFL of his retirement, and Steelers coach Bill Cowher has tried to per­suade him to play only on passing downs. 
with bluegrass, which does well in cool weather. 
Hut the planting at the \,\lest Coast Turf farm in Palm Desert. Calif., wasn't done until early December. The grass was extremely slow to germinate, 
' IT'S A VERY FlJN GRASS. MOST OF MY EXPERI· 
ENCE COMES WITH THIS 
TYPE OF GRASS. OBVIOUSLY 
YOU CAN SEE THE COLOR 
AND YOU CAN DO A LOT 
MORE STUFF IN TERMS OF 
DRESSING IT UP AND STRIP· 
ING IT." 
GRANT T!U::.11/BEATH 
HEAD GROl!NDSKt7:.PE1l 

and when it came time to put the sod in rive weeks ago, it wasn't ready. 
"It basically forced our hand to go into another direction," Trenbeath said. 
So 107,000 square feet of the rye-bluegrass blend was installed. a lush turf that's a much deeper green than last year's field. 
"It's a very fun grass," Trenbeath said. "Most of my experience comes with this type of grass. Obviously, you can see the color and you can do a lot more stuff with it in terms of dressing it up and striping it." 
Last year. a combination of not enough light for right field and wear and tear behind the plate led to the necessity of patching the field with sod, patches that were clearly visible and not very attractive. 
Since rye grass grows much more quickly than the DeAnza. Trenbeath said, worn spots can be re-seeded when the team is out of tmvn and should be back in good shape by the time the Diamondbacks come home. 
But ryegrass and bluegrass doesn't do well in extreme heat, so what happens in the notori­ously hot Phoenix summer? 
"I don't necessarily care to come back in here and re-sod this in the middle of the sum­mer, in the heat," Trenbeath said, "but that I guess is a drop­dead possibility·if something goes south. 
"But given that we are in a fairly controlled environment, something we can kind of tweak our way around, I feel confident that's not going to happen." 
So it will be another balancing act. Trenbeath plans to close the roof and use the air conditioning to keep the heat down while making sure it's open often enough to provide sufficient light. Ile also said light watering could keep the surface tempera­tures lower. 
Wednesday, April 7, 1999 

¦ NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE 
Collapsed lung grounds Flyer 
Associated Press 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. 
Doctors removed a tube 
from Eric Lindros' chest 
today. but when the Flyers 
captain can return home 
remains a day-to-day issue. 
"We want to see how every­
thing goes now with the tube 
out, make sure that he's com­
fortable and make sure that 
things remain stable," team 
physician Dr. Gary Dorshimer 
said after speaking with doc­
tors at Baptist Hospital. 
The team had been hoping 
to bring Lindros, the Flyers' 
star center and one of the top 
scorers in the NHL, home 
Tuesday night or Wednesday. 
But Dorshimer said traveling depends on how Lindros heals over the next day or so. 

"He obviously has some relief of his pain with that tube being out,.. Dorshimer said. "He had a decent night's sleep, and he's planning to do a little more walking around." 
Doctors were worried that Lindros' right lung might coJ­lapsc again when the tube keeping it inflated was removed. But Dorshimer said the X-rays look good. 
Lindros woke up in pain Friday morning after a 2-1 victory over the Nashville Predators Thursday nigh~. At least three pints of blood had seeped into his chest cavity, apparently causing his right lung to collapse. 
Christmas in April Benefit Run 
• I 




1' 
·' 
,,, 
We want you... to Teach Aerobics 

Auditions for Step, Hi/lo and Toning instructors will be held 
on Thursday, April 22. ·Leadership skills • Earn $$$ ·Gain knowledge in the fitness field 
·Meet people ·New skills 

Here's what you need to do: 
1. 
Return a completed instructor application to RecSports by April 9. 

2. 
Set up an interview with Jennie Phillips, Fitness Coordinator. 

3. 
Call 1-5965 with any questions. 



Wednesday, April 7, 1999 
¦ WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Special to the Observer 
Notre Dame sophomore Kelley Siemon of Edina, Minn., has been one of 13 players from the Big East Conference selected to play for the 1999 Big East/Nike \.Yomen's Basketball All-Star Team this summer. 
The squad, which will be directed by Boston College head coach Cathy Inglese, will tour Belgium and Germany from May 29 to June 8 and will play five games against 
the top club teams from each country. 
Siemon, a twoMyear starter for the Irish, helped Notre Dame to a 26-5 mark this sea­son as the team earned a fourth-consecutive NCAA tour­nament bid. The 6-2 forward averaged 5.8 points and was the third-leading rebounder at 
5.0 rebounds per game. 
The all-star team features one representative from each Big East school and is com­prised of three juniors, five sophomores and five fresh-
The Observer• SPORTS 
Villanova 
continued from page 32 
fifth goals of the game, reduc­ing Notre Dame's lead to four, but then the Irish scored three straight to put the game away. 
Goalie Carrie Marshall played well in goal saving a season high 16 shots while O'Shaughnessy led tlrn team with six goals for the second straight game. 
The team was back in action on Monday against the Quakers of Pennsylvania. The Quakers were able to limit ()'Shaughnessy to two goals, but -like Villanova -found scoring on Marshall to be diffi­cult. Marshall made 15 saves on the day. 
While ()'Shaughnessy was contained for only the second time all season, her team­mates reacted better than they had when Ohio State shut down ()'Shaughnessy by find­ing other players and scoring in bunches. 
The Irish scored four goals in the opening eight minutes to take a 4-0 lead. The Quakers cut the lead in half only to see Notre Dame score four in a row again and take an 8-3 lead into halftime. 
Leading the way for the Irish was Callahan who scored four 
¦ MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO 

Where's Garth? 
That's what some fans wanted to know today at the San Diego Padres' home opener against the Colorado Rockies. 
Seems the country crooner bowed out gracefully after a showy six weeks at spring train­ing in Peoria, Ariz., turning down an oITer by the Padres to travel with the team for the first month as a non-roster player. 
"We offered him a [Trevor) Hoffman deal, $32 million for four years, but he said he could make that in a we(ikend, so he decided to shut her down," gen­eral manager Kevin Towers joked. 
But seriously, Towers said Brooks didn't want to hurt the chances of a real player. 
"The closer it got to the season starting. I think. this is the typt~ of guy Garth is, he saw this as maybe potentially costing a young prospect or player a spot 
straight goals and added an assist in the first half. 
The second half was more of a defensive battle as the teams combined for only four goals with both teams held scoreless for an enormous amount of time. The four goals scored on the Irish match the fewest goals given up by the team. 
With five goals and five assists this weekend Callahan extended her scoring streak to 
page 25 

22 games dating back to the 1997 season. 
According to the latest NCAA women's lacrosse statistics, Notre Dame is the highest­scoring offense, with 14. 7 goals per game. O'Shaughnessy is third in goals per game and fourth in the country in points per game, while Callahan is first in assists per game and eighth in points per game. 
Padres move on without Garth 
"I thought it was great," Brooks said last week. "All my six weeks, all I wanted to do was contribute." 
Brooks said he got what he wanted from spring training -a chance to fulfill a boyhood dream and to jump-start his Touch 'Em All Foundation, which earns money for chil­
dren's charities based on play­
ers hitting horneruns, stealing 
bases or pitching strike outs. 
The foundation's name comes 
from a term used to describe 
what a baseball player does 
after hitting a home run ­
touch all the bases. 
Brooks said 70 players have 
already pledged their participa­
tion, including Ken Griffey Jr.• Hoger Clemens, Kevin Brown, Andy Ashby, Larry Walker and Walt \Veiss. 
Brooks was invited to the Padres' home opener to sing the national anthem, but his man­agers declined the invitation. club spokesman Charles Steinberg said. Brooks sang "The Star-Spangled Banner" at the 1993 Super Bowl, and said it was the hardest song in the world to sing. 
Towers said he was happy Brooks joined the Padres at camp, calling him a genuinely good and hard working guy. 
"Ile was an inspiration to our players," he said. "The passion he had for the game of baseball and the way he went about it. It's a good reminder for all of us." 
The publicity for the team and the game didn't hurt either. 
"He interacted with the fans and signed autographs for 3 1/2 hours every night. He did not harm, put it that way," Tov,ers said. 
And. the team misses him. 
"They all said they miss tht~ cowboy. Just having him around, you know. There was just some­thing special about him being around everybody." 
\Vill Brooks, who first workE'd out with the team in 1998, hP back for a third spring training'! 
"I don't know. All I know is that we've got a heck of a lot more country-western fans than \\!e probably had before he went into camp." Tovvers said. 
on a roster and he didn't want that to happen," he said. 
A couple of nights during the last week of spring training, Brooks and third base coach Tim Flannery played two mini-con­certs for Padres staffers. 
"Maybe it was on his mind," Towers said. "The next morning [April 1] he came in and said he 
'ITHOUGHT IT WAS GREAT ... ALL I WANT­ED TO DO WAS CON­
TRIBUTE.' 
GARTH BROOKS 
FORMER PADRES OUTFIELDER 
was not traveling with us to 
V ,. 
egas. 
Brooks, 37, left on a high noto. I le got his first HBI in 22 spring training at-bats, helping tho Padres win 9-8 to finish the Arizona circuit with a 19-11-1 record. 



A$sociated Press 
AUGUSTA, Ga. 
The shoulder is surgically mended. though still relatively untested. A bout with stomach flu ended just in time for the Masters, and his swing guru says he's hitting the ball better than ever. 

I / 
So why is Greg Norman being

/ 
treated as little more than an

i 
I 
afterthought on the eve of his 19th Masters'? 
Simple. Three years after his spectacular Sunday collapse at Augusta National, Norman's scarred psyche still seems to have room to heal. 
It shows in his golf game, which has been maddeningly inconsistent since his comeback from shoulder surgery. And it shows on his face as ho talks more about the new life he dis­covered while recuperating and less of his chances of finally winning a green jacket. 
"Yes. I want to win the Masters. absolutely," Norman said. "But it's not a priority. There are other priorities that I enjoy doing. I don't have a sense ofurgency anymore." 
Sitting on the same podium where he bared his soul after blowing a six-shot lead in the final round to Nick Faldo in 1996, Norman had no problem Tuesday talking about his latest s""°i.ng changes. rebuilt shoulder or the stomach ailment that made him appear gaunt after losing a half-dozen pounds or so last week. 
But he struggled when the subject centered on the motiva­tion of an extremely wealthy 44­year-old whose failures have always loomed larger than his many successes. 
;Tm very happy. I even enjoy playing the game of golf," Norman said. "I "know it's a matter of time before I'IJ get back there in the winner's cir-

page 26 The Observer• SPORTS 
¦ THE MASTERS 

Shark hopes to eat up greens 
cle. But now I don't want to force it. I'm very easy about things. I'm very relaxed about things." 
That relaxation showed as Norman strolled over a few minutes later to the practice tee, greeting old acquaintances and signing autographs. Once on the course, he shared laughs with playing partners Steve Elkington and Shigeki Maruyama. 
Having fun in practice and being tournament tough. though, are two different things. And Norman concedes he hasn't played enough coming into the Masters. He missed the cut in The Players Championship and had to withdraw from the BellSouth Classic in Atlanta because of his illness. 
It showed on the second hole as Norman pulled his drive way left into the trees from .. the now tee box, then almost hit Maruyama with a sand shot as both practiced from the left greenside bunker. 
"He just needs a little dose of confidence." said Norman's coach, David Leadbetter...He needs to play rounds under pressure." 
Leadbetter tinkered a bit with Norman's swing during his seven-month layoff after last year's surgery on his left shoul­der. Norman is swinging a bit more upright with a wider take­away and is working on keeping his.legs less-active. 
The results have been mixed. He played Tiger Woods tough in a match that went 18 holes dur­ing the Presidents Cup, only to collapse in the Match Play Championship against Eduardo Romero, blowing a 3-up lead \vith five holes to play. 
He went on to lose the Australian Masters to a birdie by Craig Spence on the 72nd hole, and did not play particu­larly well at Doral Golf Resort 
WARNING: When surfmg the web for New York apartments, at Tribeca Pointe, you may actually get wet. 

; .,, 
' 
I· 
' . 
before missing the cut at The Players Championship. 
"I haven't seen him s\Ving this well in a long, long time." Leadbetter said. "If he gets off to a good start, he'll get better as the week goes on. He just needs to get his scoring boots on." 
Norman, who missed the cut in the last two Masters after his 7 8 in the closing round cost him a green jacket in 1996, agrees. 
''From a shoulder standpoint. I'm physically stronger than what I was 2 1/2 years ago," Norman said. "Right now, I could walk to the first tee, pull out a driver and swing it in one swing. That's a huge leap for• ward in the last 12 months to two years." 
From a mental standpoint, though, things aren't so simple. Norman waited until Tuesday to play tho course, skipping some of the early preparation he might have used in earlier years. 
It was almost as if he didn't want to see the course until he had to. 
..There still has to be some remnants ofbad feelings around here," Leadbetter conceded Tuesday as he stood under the huge oak tree in front of Augusta National's clubhouse. 
"That was a tournament for Greg to win and he just couldn't fix the leaks." 
Still. Norman says he can remember the good times in Georgia. including back-to-back runner-up fmishes in 1986-87. 
And he insists that his life is more complete now, and that he can live it secure in the knowl­edge that he did his best. 
"I've taken a lot of great things out of the Masters," he said. "If I stopped this with my last tournament and I didn't win it, l'd say the Masters had a great stamp on my life and how my life turned out." 
Wednesday, April 7, 1999 
¦ MEN'S GOLF 

Final round rally captures second 
Observer Staff Report 

Thanks to the rPturn of' Jeff Connell to the lineup, the men's golf team captured sec­ond place at the Johnny Owens Invitational. 
The rnturn of Connell, who had been out sick, helped the Irish lo improve 12 spots from the previous week's 14th place showing at the Dr. Pepper Intercollegiate. 
Connell bounced back f'rom his illness in top form as he finished second overall. Scoring 70 <tnd 71 on the first two days of competition. he entered the final round in a tie for first place. He scored another 71 on the final day but fell into second place. Nevertheless. his 212 was the second-lowest 54~hole tourna­ment score in Irish history. Only the 209 he scored last spring at the Marshall Invitational was better. llis 
final score of' four undPr par was the best score in rnlation to par in the history of Notrt\ Dame golf. 
Senior Brad llardin also had a strong tournanrnnt for the Irish. llardin shot a 75 on the last day. of comp<!Lilion to cap­ture seventh place. 
The Irish moved l'rom third to second place on tlw last day of competition thanks to a col­lapse by Ohio University and a strong showing by \Nillie KPnt and Steve Hatay. 
Ohio dropped 10 strokes on the final day while th1; Irish impnwed by orw stroke. scor­ing a 293. 
Kent scored a 7:{ in the final round to move from 38th to 22nd while Hatay's 74 jumped him 14 spots to 26th. 
Notre Dame's 881 total rep­resents the fifth-best 54-hole score in the program's history and the third-best in relation 
to par. 


~~~-J~c:~.?~~~~+~%»:.,.,t;~,,~:M&~:~-·--~~:~~\~~~j,f.:~:?.:1f:~~~r,;°-m~~:~.R:•l-~:k~-­
Joh11···· Ow ens Invitational 


1 1. Mian1i (OH) 880 14. Morehead St. 914
12. No!re D~me 881 16. Iowa State 917 i 3. Ohio Univ. 890 17. Murray State 920 !4. Xavier 892 18.Youngstown St. 921 !5. Kentucky 897 
6. Marshall 900 . 7. Ball State 901l8. Indiana 904 
19. E. Kentucky 905 jl0. Louisville 907 ·11. W. Kentucky 908 
12. 
Wright State 909 

13. 
E. Michigan 910 14. Vanderbilt 914 




The Department of English 
University of Notre Dame 
Presents 

Ford Foundafion Writer-in-Residence 
Njabulo S. Ndebele 
Citizens, Writers and Readers: Remaking Culture in South Africa 
Wednesday,April7, 1999 
7:30 p.m. Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
Reception to follow In the Great Hall 
Nj,abulo Ndebele is the former president of the Congress of South African Writers and former vice-chancellor of the University of the North in Sovenga, South Africa. Among his m~ny writings are Fools and Other Stories (Ravan Press, 1983), which won the NOMA award in 1984, and South African Literature and Culture: Rediscovery, ofthe Ordinary (Manchester University Press, 1994), which Nadine Gordimer has called "'an essential book.n Hailed as "a prophet of the 
post-apartheid condition," Doctor Ndebele is primarily concerned with the ways in which literary culture functions in such a rapidly changing political and social wortd as contemporary South Africa. 
I
I
i
I
I
i
i
i
i
i
i
I
I
I
i
I
i
I
I
i
I
I
I
i
i
i
I
I
IiI ;I 
; ;
I 
~ 


Wednesday, April 7, 1999 

The Observer• PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 27 

It's almost over. Have the answers( ­Or just more questionsr Who does have all the answers( ­
Go on y nows. 

y not as Him. 


For more information on Holy Cross' 
one-year Candidate Program contact: 
Fr. Jim King, C.S,C. or Fr. Bill Wack, C.S.C. 1~385 vocation. l@nd.edu 
www. n~.e~u/..vocation 

.'ANSWER -W THE CALL'<!>' -­

, l 
\ i 
I·,'' 
I'I, 
I' I 
. I . 
page 28 The Observer• SPORTS Wednesday, April 7, I 999 


Stepan Center @ 7:30 
and at the door: Students: $14 Public: $32, $38 with all session pass Call 631-7757 for more inf0, 631-8128 for tickets 




This could be that very same olive tree. 

It was in the Garden of Gethsemane that Jesus spent his last free hours. Today, carbon dating shows that many of the olive trees that grow here are older than 1900 years. The olive trees live now as they did then. This is what it really means to be part of history: 2000 years of growth. 
What better way to celebrate the Year 2000 than to observe the beginning of Christian time? Catholics from all over the world come to Gethsemane to honor their history and touch the essential spirit of the place. You may attend mass in the Church of All Nations where scenes of Jesus' life are depicted in moving and inspired art. Nearby, you may visit Mary's tomb, then walk in Jesus' path on the Via Dolorosa. The great restaurants, hotels and resorts of Jerusalem provide a perfect home base for your unforgettable vacation. ti". 
Where else can you visit a land as ancient as the first millennium and as modern as the next? Whether you come to Israel on a pilgrimage with your priest, or on a personal journey of discovery, come to the land where time began. 

w
ISRAEL 
!
NO ONE BELONGS HERE MORE 
THAN YOU. 

See your travel agent or call 1-888..77-ISRAEL or visit us at www.goisrael.com Israel Ministry of Touris 


page 30 The Observer• SPORTS Wednesday, April 7, 1999 
¦ TRACK AND FIELD 

Discus throw propels Irish to victory at home 
I<\'
I"' 
r·,a 
,~m I; i I't !i 
I., I : ' 
I• 
I 
j"{ f I 
H 
[ : ~-' ! 
~ ·~ 
t I 
j 
l 
j 
I 
I' 
rl 
1: . 
t 
i 
r·i if 
I•
if 
•..i-..
f'li!
ll 
IIi 
I l 
I ' 
i,1 ~ 
I; ' 
r'j . 1 I 
tl: ) I 
i ' 
' 
J; 
l. iiJi (/ I I
,1l',1 !. 
1( l 
''! ~! ~11 ( 
11,: 
.,I 
; I 

i 
i 
f . i ' 
ll: 
'1' 
f\ 'i ' 
q . 
j1'I I 
I I 
,, 
;( I 
.... :­
I 
I 
\;
!1. 
jl(l. 
I', 
,'tf 
'.! '. 
,!,
'<' 
/ :~j
H 
I,\, J:l 
I[, 
I 
I
] 
·,}-" 

_.,. 
,t 

By BRIAN HOBBINS 
Sports Writer 
Tlw Notn! Dame track team fought through triangular meets over the Easter holidav. 
The men edged out Westi,rn Michigan and Miami of Ohio by a mere six points vrhilP tlw women fell by a slim margin to the tough Hedhawks. but \\'ins and losses aside, both squads turned in solid performances. 
Marshaun West led the team winning both the 100 meter and the 200 meter with times of 11.4 seconds and 21.74 sec­onds respectively. 
Not to be outdone by West was freshman throwing sensa­tion Dore DeBartolo who also claimed two victories. She broke Notre Dame records in both thf1 hammer throw and the discus. Her throws of 176 feet, seven inches in the ham­mer and 156 feet. three inches in the discus earned her first place finishes in both. 
Natalie Hallett tied her own record of 10 feet, six inches in the high jump en route to a first place finish. Hallett admit­ted that the outdoor conditions had her worried. 


"\Ve were pretty worried about our performances because it was so windy, but everyone Pnch'd up doing pretty well," she said. 
Scoring additional points on the field sidn was high jumpPr Jpnnifer Englehardt. llnr jump of five foet, eight inches was good not only l'or a first place finish but also actnd as a major confidence booster. 
"I saw some really good things in my jumping that I want to improve on for the next meet. I had good consistency over live feet ten inches. I just need more IPg kick," Englehardt said. 
On the track side, things looked glum for the women's 3000 meter with the top three runners taking the weekend off. 
Bridget O'Brien, however, emerged from the pack to claim a first place finish, her first of the season. 
"Coach Connelly told us that someone from Notre Dame was expected to win so we all pushed forward to sec who would come out on top," she said. 
The Fighting Irish men run­rrnrs also had a red-letter dav, clairning victories in tlw 8()0 nwter and 1500 meter. Phil Mis h k a w o n tlw 8 0 0 at o ,w minute, 51.84 snconds with a push f'rom tPammatl' Tim Klolwr, \\'ho clainwd S('co11<l place. 
"I am very happy about g<'l­ting out fast in tlw first 200, previously I had sat in back of tlrn pack and kickPd late," lw said. Ile sees this 1wrf'ormanc(' as a stepping storw tmvards his ultimate goal of a Big East titlP for the team. 
Antonio A.rep's timP of' ] : 5 2 . 7 4 was P nough lo (' d g <' out compPtition from \Vt'stPrn \lichigan in a hard fought 1500. 
"A bit of' a headvvind in the final stretch made it diflieult," he said. 
The field side also showed no weaknesses as Adrian Irby won the triple jump, distancing over 47 feet, five inches. 
Accompanying Irby with field victories were Matt O'Bri"n in the javelin, Derek Dy<•r in the discus and senior pole vaulter Mike Brown who finished his Notre Danw Imm.-career with a vault of 16 foet. :{/4 inches. 

The Muslim Students Association presents a lecture on 
THE CHALLENGE OF POLITICAL ISLAM 
by Prof. John L. Esposito 
Professor of Religion and International Affairs, P~ofesso~ o~ Islamic Studies, and Director of the Center for Mushm-Christlan Understanding at Georgetown University, Washington D.C. 

Friday, April 9 1999 
4pm 

Montgomery Theater, LaFortune 
Co-sponsored by The Mediterranean/Middle East Studies Program The Kellogg Institute The Kroc Institute for Peace Studies 
The Nanovic Institute for European Studies and the Kellogg Institute for International Studies 
International Conference: Christian Democracy in Europe and Latin America April 9-11, 1999 Center for Continuing Education, University of Notre Dame 
FR1DAY. APRIL 9th Session l: (8:30-10:30 AM) Historical Roots of Christian Democracy 
Session 2: (11:00-12:30 PM) Christian Democracy as Ideology and Organization 
Session 3: (3:00-5:00 PM) Christian Democracy in Postwar Europe 
Keynote Address: (5:30-6:30 PM) Christian Democracy in a Global World: Ruud Lubbers (University of Tilburg, TI1e Netherlands, and fomier Prime Minister of 111e Netherlands) 
SATURDAY. APRIL 10th Session 4: (9:00-10:30 AM) Christian Democracy and the Catholic Church 
Session 5: (11:00-12:30 PM) Christian Democracy and Recent Political Trends 
Session 6: (3:00-5:00 PM) Christian Democracy in Contemporary Latin America 
SUNDAY. APRIL 11 th Session 7: (9:00-10:30 AM) Political Practice and Policy Choices Round table discussion with politicians and practitioners on how Christian Democratic ideology influences their political practice and policy choices. 
Session 8: (11 :00 AM-12:30 PM) The Future of Christian Democracy in Latin America Round table discussion about the ideological and electoral challenges facing Latin American's Christian Democratic parties. 
All sessions are open to the public. 



Wednesday, April 7, 1999 

The Observer• TODAY page 31 
SLURRED SPEECH DAN SULLIVAN HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
FOXTROT 
BILL AMEND 



DILBERT 
C:
'<OU'RE. SUGGESTING u 
t,,.. 
FA.IL EVEN 
E.VE R.'l'TH!NG RTG\-\T. 


~ ; 

-----------------' 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32 Put away 33 Not be a polite 
1 Make fat winner 5 Teaser 35 Eerie sightings 10 Survivalist's 39 Cheesy 1977 stockpile comedy?

14 Needle case 44Coupling15 "They Died With 45 Element found Their Boots On," in Geiger e.g. 
counters16 Bad news for a 46 Word with snake bookie or quake 17 It may be hit with 47 Writer on musica hammer 

David-­

18 Cheesy part ot 51 View
the neck? 53CheesyTV

20 Kind of nerve private eye? 
22 Ballpark figure 57 "Wheel of23 Tennis call Fortune"24 Cheesy 60's TV purchase
show? 58 Ballpark figure 

28 Frito-Lay's parent 59 Lowest deck 31 ·_, .ne 63 Cheesy gabber? Dt:.... 1re 67 "Hawaii Five-O" Senat ,r locale 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 11 Common bedroom 
furniture material 12 Track athlete 
Clifford 19 Secy. 
21 City north of 
Sacramento 25 Hosiery shade 
swing 27 R k t
ac e eer 28 Ruefulness 29 Feature of an 
empty house 30 Furtive look 

_____....'.:li'..la!g.'....'..ht:._______..::5~0'...2y~ears: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Make checks payable to:
The Observer 
and mail to: 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Llo1E.N CA.REFULL'<. 
L,.:::..,,L.::1:=---~'..l::L~...LII--~ ~ i---CL---1-..~~----UJS.;::.::...'-J-_~--1 
._____.i.._...i...._______....l,..._ _,J 

68 Item designed to 
be blown up? 69 Jungle vine 10 Tito's family 
name 71 Bones, zoologically 12 Like happy diners 73 Exxon, once 
DOWN 
1 Kind of blocks 20n 3 Shrimp 4 Fingers 5 "Ulalume" poet 6 Dosage unit at a 
reactor 7 Northern 
Japanese city 8 Initiate 9 "Twelfth Night" 
lover 

10 Dadaism
founder 

Puzzle by Mark Elliot Skolsky 

53 "Thriller" singer, 
36 Denizens of the 46-Across in tabloids 
37 It comes in black 54 "It's --Kiss" 
and white 38 Part of a deck chair 
40 Will of "The Waltons" 41 Complaint 42 "Space cadet" 43 Ano starter 
48 Not an iron 49 Peers 50 Beaverlike fur 52 Photographer's 
SCOTT ADAMS 


"l'OV'RE NOT WORK.ING WtTH l"\A.N'< TOOL'S 
HERE, t:\RE '<OU? 

---·, WE NEEO SOf"\E SORT OF CONFER­
E 
ENCE CA.LL.

0 
0 
t:: 
(LI 
,Q 
:s 
~ 

(1964 hit) 55 Track events 56 Convocation of 
witches 60 Cousin of Sven 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 

Name ---------------------------­
Address City ________State ____ Zip______ 
61 Cries of surprise 62 Corleone·s creator 64 Narcs' employer: Abbr. 65 Half and half 66 Crossed through 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: David Frost, Francis Ford Cop­pola, Billie Holiday, Ravi Shankar, James Gamer 
Happy Birthday: Just do it. You have what it takes to get things done, so stop thinking about it and make your move. You must not let your emotional well-being stand in your way. If you sit around feeling sorry for yourself, you will have regrets, but if you get motivated and accom­plish things, you will enjoy the suc­cess that is just around the corner. Your numbers: 14, 23, 28, 36, 44, 49 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Get down to business. You'll be able to manipulate situations and get your own way if you push your ideas. Your added discipline will enable you to complete some of those unfinished projects. 00000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Get moving. Take the chance and make those personal alterations that will enhance your appearance and raise your self-esteem. You've been waver­ing too long. The time for change is now.000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't hold your breath. If you think that your partner will come crawling back and bend to your needs, think again. Re-evaluate your motives. Maybe it's you who needs to make the changes. 
000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will meet potential mates if yo\/ get out and start living. Don't be shy. Say what's on your mind and be sure to stick to your beliefs rather than taking the opinions of others. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You'll be in the mood for love. Your intensity will mount, and your desire to '.ay your emotional cards on the table will result in determining your personal 


•. Conc~i:t?2'Iljµj~ "Ab~~<l ~µsique" series toni$'ht jti9:3P"Rl~~ ir,. µ:tij: B~silic~. 9! t~~ s~~rl:)fl }{~~ft?T~~iJi~~\,
···iti~t~it!Jlif~~!::h~:g•········.••••;a«~t~<±!a~~~uf~;;~f'.l!1•·,
t'. ND Seijior Katie Desc~tpercussion, present§i~/solo 
recit;:itt:b1s ~ven!11g at. 8.;:p;ni'; 'inthe ~and BuiJglrg·.... 
Graduate·•student'Luvip V'1]arreal, trurripet/willcassisf" 
for onq... piece. The program includes sel~gtiOil$. by 
Evelyn' Glennie. John Bfck..Paul Smadbeck, Dav,~ 
Hollinden•.Christopher De~~f~nd William. K.raft, Tij'e
recitaI;~;Fjs free and ''open to_ the 'public, 
The Joan B. Kroc Institute will present a roundtab!e 
discussion titled "The ABC's of the Kosovo Crisis: What 
Should the World Community do?" today at 12:30 p.m. 
in room C-103 of the Hesburgh Center for International 
Studies."Professors Gil Loescher. Alan Dowty and 
Martha Merritt will be there. 

Wanted: Reporters and photographers. Join The Observer Staff. 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
direction.. Now is not the time to hold 
back.00000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sepl 22): Watch out for overindulgence. Putting on the pounds can be expected. Get into a regimented routine before it's too late. Moderation will be the key. 00 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Take care of any red tape or legal matters. Financial gains can be made if you are conservative in investments. Don't let friends or relatives make you feel guilty because you've been busy. 
0000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov_ 21): Par­ticipation in organizations will lead to romantic encounters. Use your ability to convince others of your belief in a worthy cause. Your dedication will sway any opposition that you face. 
000 
SAGITfARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Sexual attractions will be tempting. Your mate will get jealous easily. You'd better think twice before you decide to get involved with more than one person. It may be time to moveon.000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
Don't overspend on entertainment. It is best to avoid putting too much money or time into fixing your nest­ing place. Put your cash into a retire­ment fund that is long-term and safe. 
000 AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Opportunities to meet new people will lead to a lucrative business opportunity. You need some adven­ture in your life. You've been an observer for too long now. 0000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You should be getting out and enjoying life. Expand your interests by signing up for events and courses that draw your attention. Take action and you'll get satisfaction. 00 
.... 

111,1111111' 
¦ Sophomore Kelley Siemon will play for the Big East/Nike Women's All-Star team this summer. 
p. 19 

page 32 OBSERVER ------------------Wednesday, April 7, 1999 


¦ BASEBALL
¦ SOFTBALL 

Sluggers punch out Providence 
ND fights back after 

By TIM CASEY Sports Writer 
tough losses to UIC 
The Irish baseball team provf'd its national forn' again
ByMATIOLIVA four innings without giving up a 
last weck(md.

$ports Writer hit and striking out six. 
vVith five wins in the last six
Gina Bessolo, sister of Irish 
days, the Irish improved to 21-8After Illinois-Chicago snapped pitcher Angela. was credited 
on the year, including a Big
the Notre Dame softball team's Pittsburgh's loss. 
East best 9-1. They have now
winning streak Thursday, the In the second game, . the Irish 
won 17 of their last 19 games
Irish got back on track, taking hats swung to victory. Tied 2-2 
after beginning the year with
two games from Pittsburgh in at the top of the third, the Irish 
four losses in their first five
their Big East opener and split­went on to score eight more games.
ting a doubleheader at Eastern runs, including six in the fourth 
The Irish began the weekend
Michigan Monday. inning. 
on Thursday with a doublP­
Against 16th-ranked UIC, the McCleary hit hor fifth home 
headm· against Providencn. In
Irish (22-14, 2-0) dropped run of the season for the Irish 
the lirst gamr\ Aaron Il<iilman 
games 6-3 and 8-3. in the third. The Panthers 
pitched mastPrl'ully, recording
Angela Bessolo {6-4) picked helped the Irish cause by com­
his fifth victorv of the season in 
up the first Irish loss, and mitting four errors and giving 
the 5-4 win. ih~ilman allowed
Michelle Moschel took her first up five unearned runs. Jarrah 
only one hit in the first six
collegiate loss in the second Myers, Lemire and Jenny 
innings and finished the gamPgame. Kriech each had one RBI. 
with a three hitter and four
Kris McCleary and Lizzy Sharron Bessolo also picked 
strikeouts. He now has four
Lemire both provided offense up the second game victory. 
complete games on the season.

for the Irish by hitting their She relieved starter Angela 
Paul O'Toohi was the offen­
fourth and · Bessolo in the 
sive hero of the day for tlw Irish
second TIED 2-2 AT THE TOP OF second inning 
with a game-winning HBI lo
h o m e 

THE THIRD, THE IRISH and went on to 
ccntf·rficld in the ninth scoring
r u n s , strike out 
.Jeff PcrcontP. The Irish had 
r e s p e c -WENT ON TO SCORE EIGHT three, while 
been up 4-0 in the sixth inningtively. only surren­
lwforp thl' Friars mounted a
MORE RUNS, INCLUDING SIX IN 
In the dering one 
comeback with four nms in tlw
Big East THE FOURTH INNING. walk. 
seventh to tic tlw contest.

opening Against 
The nightcap again showed 
weekend, the Irish defeated Eastern Michigan, the Irish 
tlrn grit of the Irish squad. They
Pittsburgh 6-1 and 10-2 at Ivy used 13 hits to secure an 8-2 
jumped out to a 5-2 lead after
Field. victory after dropping the dou~ 
five innings before, once again.
In the first game. the Irish bleheader's first game 5-4. 
Providence evnncd the scon~
posted two runs in the bottom In the first game, Notre Dame 
with two runs in the sixth and
of the second. Danielle took a 2..:0 lead into the bottom 
one in the ninth. Freshman des­
Klayman drove in Angie of the third before. the Eagles 
ignated hitter Ed Golom -in
Grimmer with a single, and put five runs on the board. Mel 
his third start of the season -

Lemire scored from third on a Alkire helped the Irish come­
started the bottom half of th<'
wild pitch. The team added one back with her fourth home run 
ninth with a double. Ben 
run in the third and three in of the year. 
Cooke's sacrifice bunt moved
the fifth to wrap up the 6-1 vic­In the end, the Irish rally fell 
Golom to third basn and 
tory. short as Eastern Michigan 
Perconte came through in thn
Sophomore pitcher Jennifer pitcher Corey Repicky held the 
clutch with a single through the
Sharron {8,.;6) made her first Irish scoreless for the· last two 
left side of the infield to win the 
start since injuring her ankle innings to pick up the save. · 
The Observer/Michelle Keefe game for the Irish 5-4.
against Purdue. She picked up Alkire (3-2) ·was credited with 
Scott Cavey combined with Mike Naumann for an 11-hitter in the sec­
the victory af~er completing 
ond game of the doubleheader versus Providence last Thursday. 

see SOFTBALL/ page J9 see BASEBALL/ page 19 
¦ MEN'S LACROSSE ¦ WOMEN'S LACROSSE 

Dutchmen fly past Irish Offense shakes up Quakers 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
By GENE BRTALIK cnce, since the first came with thn Associate Spores Editor Sports Writer Wildcats already trailing 7-2. The Notre Dame !Pad came thanks 
The nrnn's lacrosse team In a majority of the first six games to a five-goal outburst in tlrn first scored five of the last six goals of the Notre Dame women's lacrosse seven minutes of the game. With in regulation time tu rally from season, the Irish used their stifling Katherine Scarola making her first a four-goal deficit and force defense to stay in games and then start, the Irish benefited right awayovertime beforp, Chad comeback to win in the end. as she assisted on the first two goalsEisenhart scored two minutes Last weekend the team dropped and added a third assist later. After and 11 seconds into overtime their defensive style in favor of a Villanova cut into the lead, thn Irish to send the Irish home from more potent offense against Villanova used two goals from Katherine Hofstra with a 10-9 loss. and Pennsylvania. Perrella and one each from Lael 
A flurry of first quarter As a result, the Irish picked up two ()'Shaughnessy and Kerry Callahan to Hofstra goals buried the Irish 
wins bv a combined score of 26-13 to make the score 7-1. in a hole that would take them improv'e to 6-2 on the season. After halftime it looked like the most of the game to dig them­On Saturday. the team traveled to vVildcats were ready to make a come­selves out of. Villanova for its fifth road game of back by scoring four of the first six 
Scott Dooley scored the first the season and came avvay with its goals with the elder Doyle scoring two of his two goals a mere six 
fourth road win by a score of 15-9. in that span, making the score 9-6. seconds into the game. Less The Irish stressed early last week Maura, however, wasn't going to let than two minutes later, Brad that they were going to have t-.> shut her sister steal the show in front of Oblof extended the Flying down teammate Maura Doyle's older her parents and answered Meghan's Dutchmen lead to 2-0. sister -Mcghan -if they wanted to two with two of her own to further Preseason honorable mention win. separate Notre Damfl from Villanova. All-American Doug Shanahan Although the elder Doyle went on to Meghan later scored her fourth and 
The Observer/Joe Stark 
score five goals in the game, her

Junior goaltender Kirk Howell had 12 saves Saturday 
points came too late to make a differ-

see TENNIS/ page 21 as the Irish lost to Hofstra in overtime. see VILLANOVA/ page 22 
rt;', vs. Ball State, vs. Georgetown,
,,_) M?
,;:_•. Monday, 3 p.m. Saturday, 1 p.m. Softball
h SPORTS 
at Olivet College, 

t ti I ATA 

Baseball Today, 3 p.m. 
. /' 

vs. Davidson, vs. Bowling Green, 
wy 

Friday, 4 p.m. Today, 5:05 p.m. 
GLANCE
I 
p
l 
.q 
!j 
.l 
I 
I 









