More debate on the SOA 
Not a good day at the movies 
Nakasha Ahmad furthers the debate on the School of 
New movies like Chill Factor and Outside 
Thursday
l\merir:as with her column focusing on the funding ofthe 
Provi~ence receive chilling re11iewsfrom Scene's 
controversial school. 
· movie critics. 
SEPTEMBER 
page 13 
page 14 
9, 1999 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIII NO. 13 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



Sweeney lectures about unions 

By SAM DERHEIMER 
News Writer 
The lahor movement wants a beLtcr image, and John Sweeney, president of the American Federation of Labor autl the Con){ress of Industrial Organizations IAFL-CIOI, said Wednesday he believes he can create that imago through educa­tion. 
"There's a role for all of us to play," Swe"eney said. "We have to do a better job at educating people about what the labor movement is about. And that's a big part of what this llecturcl is about." 
Sweeney focused on the benefits unions can provide for the working class, and talked of building an America, " ... where the ben­efits of the greatest econom­ic country in the world are shared by all, instead of hoarded by the few." 
On average, union work­ers ar~ paid 32 percent more than non-union work­ers, Sweeney said. Furthermore, he empha­sized the advantages unions create for what he called the "forgotten majority," those underprivileged and unedu­cated members of our soci­ety left behind in a "cruel, winner-take-all world." 

Sweeney spoke ahout the AFL-CIO's programs to ensure a safe and stable working environment. llis primary goals as a labor leader are to provide an education· to workers who probably would not be able to attain onfl on their own. he said. 
!In also urged students to develop a better under­standing of what labor orga­niza..tions can do. 
" YO ll , "You, as students, and thing. 1 
as stu-future business leaders, don't havP dents, any need for
need an improved
a n d a union
perception of the
future righl now, 
business labor movement." and so il's leaders, I i k n , need an 'Tomorrow,
John Sweeney
improved everything's percep­president of AFL-CIO going to bn 
jun-ior Hyun Hodge. "Thu labor movement is some­thing that affects everyone. We need to he informed on the dirnction it is taking for tlrn f'uturn." 
O' Neill llall frnshman, Matt Barr had a slightly dif­forent perspective . 
"It was somewhat inspir­ing," he said. "Sweeney d111i­nitflly shownd thn roln unions servn in this country, but it was kind of an 'in tlw momenl' kind of 

tion of the labor movement," he said, expressing hope that as future business presidents and officials, students who better understand how labor unions operate will be more willing to work with them later. 
Students at the lecture generally responded posi­tively. 
"It was a very informative lecture on an important 
the same whether support the unions or not.'" 
If he could to plant a more positive image of labor unions in students' minds, Sweeney said, that image would rnmain whether they felt its immediate rnlevance or not. 
In the future, when stu­dents deal with unions in a business setting, coopera­tion could be morn forth-

issue," said Zahm Hall see SWEENEY/page 4 

--=---=-----·=======================================================================-===== 
SOA Watch leader encourages students to protest 
Bourgeois: 'Ifyou go to prison for the right reasons, you are free' 
Uy MATT SMITH 
News Writer 
Smiling as he uxplaincd tlw sacrifices he has made as lcac!Pr ol' the School of Americas Watch. Father Roy Bourg,iois said, "If you go to prison for the right reasons, you am f'rne, and I'll bn going \Jack again soon." 
/\s an inlHrnational fnwdom lighter. Bourgeois has seen many prison walls, sp1mding a littlf\ over four years total hchind bars. "Prison is a grnat place to do ministry," he said optimistically. 
Tho School of J\nrnricas, locatnd al Fort Bunning, Ga., seoms lo be the only thing that upsets him. The school, supposndly d1•dicated to lNtching young men about democ­racy, has instead produced some nf the most dangerous a11d violPlll terrorists and dictators in the world. Topping the school's !isl of infamous graduat1~s am Panamanian drug lord Manuel Nornaga. and Salvadorian death squad leador Hohorto D'Aubuisson. 
Bourgoois' opposition group startnd with just a handful of protosttirs, but now each year thousands gather to 
see BOURGEOIS/page 4 


Bourgeois talks at Saint Marys 
Observer Staff Report 
Father Hoy Bourgeois, founder of the School or The Americas Watch, continued to urge students lo protest the U.S. government's sponsorship of thn School of thn Americas [SOAJ Wednesday at Saint Mary's. 
Bourgeois preached a similar message at Notre Dame Tuesday in a lecture sponsornd by the University's chaptflr of Pax Christi. lln has hmm on campus for two days to garner support for closurP or thfl school, a training ground for Latin Amnrican mili­tary officers. 
The SOA is training these soldiers to kill, hn said, with more than $1 million pnr day in funding f'rom Urn 
U.S. government. 
The school has developed a reputation in its 5:{ years of opt~ration of training ollicers in torture and dictatorial measures. More than 900 people have bmm killed in political violence in El Salvador. many by graduates of this program, Bourgeois contnndnd, giv­ing the school ils reputation as "The School ol' A'lsassins." 
Bourgeois is one of the early leaders in the move­ment to close the SOA and has bnen jailed repoatedly for trespassing at Fort Benning, Ga., whnre SOA is 
see SMC/page 4 


----------~ 
-. 


Court allows intervention in Michigan lawsuit 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather'"forecast for daytime conditions and high temreratures 

The AccuWeathet® forecast for noon, Thursday, Sept. 9. 
Unes separate high temperature zones for the day. 
,,..~·'·····~-­

:,,~.... 
Thursday Friday; Saturqay 

~~ ~';;°'t,{),--ao• "•'"' FRONTS: 
609 .......................... ~ 
11:11999 Ac:cuWeath&r, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY
Sunde}¥ 
Preuur•: 

® © . L'.:J .. @o()~I~
t11gh l,.ow Shower• Rain T-¦torma Fturrlea Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
V1a Associatod Pr,n1:;

Mo11day 


Atlanta 86 60 Las Vegas 99 74 Portland 77 56 
Baltimore BO 58 Memphis 92 58 Sacramento Tl 55 ~~~a~a ~ ~ d Boston 75 67 Milwaukee 69 50 St. Louis 83 58 S~~~',; ,-.;t~r',;,s Rain ~-;~~~ ~~~-~: ·~;-Sunny Pt. Cloody ~Joudy Chicago 70 49 New York 76 63 Tampa 89 72 Vin ksocialed Press GraphicsNet Houston 94 64 Philadelphia 79 64 Wash DC 82 68 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Walking on 
water 

Merciless. Unyielding. Frigid. Wet. 
No, I am not describing an Arctic snow­storm -not even a South Bend snowstorm. What I am describing here is the sprinkler 
system employed by our beloved University. A sprinkler system with motives unknown to an intelligent student body. A sprinkler system with mis­sions reaching far beyond the hopes of an impeccable quad. 
En mule to an 8:30 class 

in Del3artolo Hall, my com­Maureen rade and I dodge these Smithe vicious rainmakers. Timing our steps with the clicks of the water, we Copy Editor have created an invisible labirynth along the quad, sidestepping the jagged 
bullets. Our outfits. if we succeed in our mis­sion of safe passage, will remain spotless and pressed. and my friend's hair won't curl up after hM morning struggle to straighten it. Since the begining of the year, this has hoen our morning routine. 
On my way to ()'Shaughnessy Hall a little after noon. I am surprised yet again by the sprinkler system's incessant dousing. Only this time, instead of feeling irritated, I am confused. It seems as though the sidewalk is getting" a thourough wash down. The sprin­klers each take their own turn laundering the walkway before continuing on to the grass. On an active college campus, 1would figure that the:re would be more outrage over this wasted water than there currently is. As I question the need for green grass when fall is knocking at the door, I become angered over the constantly wet sidewalks. 
In a constant and impatient quest for greener grass on our campus, someone set the timers for this sprinkler system without much consideration for quad-cutting stu­dents. Someone decided that the sprinklers had to go off at prime passing times. This individual dispersed the sprinklers in posi­tions critical to the time-honored task of side­walk irrigation. 
Most people agree about all this nonsense. Our campus is absolutely lovely -that fact can not be argued with -however, do we really need the inopportune click-clicks·of the sprinkler system constantly reminding us that the grass is green for a reason? I can not find a reason for the timers to be set during class time. 
If I recall correctly, most towns near my house have water conservation orders in effect with severe consequences for those who feel their lawn is above the law. As a result, these towns encourage lawn watering during the early hours of the morning, as to prevent evaporation from the sun. It would make sense, therefore. for the University to run the sprinklers before most people are awake. Not only would we be eco-friendly, but also a bit more convenient for those stu­dents racing to class. 
After lunch, another friend and I tackle the system once again on our way to the book­store. As we bide our time complaining about the sprinklers, we are rudely interrupted by a merciless burst of a frigid quad shower. 
The views expressed in the inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those oJThe Obseruer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Joshua Borgeois Mike Vanegas Maureen Smithe Graphics 
Kate Steer Katie Kennedy 
Sports Production 
Kerry Smith Laura Berrigan 
Viewpoint Lab Tech AJ Boyd Berchmans Daily 
The Ob«rv,r (USPS 599 2-4000) i, p"bli,hcd Monday chrough Friday cxccp, during exam and vac.,uion periods. The Ob:.crvcr is a member of rhc: Associated Pro..s. All rcproduct~on righ1s art ,~served. • 
I 
I I 
Court finds Miami seniors innocent 
MIAMI UNIVERSITY 
Brad Allen and Nathaniel Snow were found not guilty of posting racist and homophobic fliers at Miami University's Center for Black Culture and Learning. The two black students were accused of staging a faux hate crime last October by entering the center after closing time, programming racist messages on screen savers and posting hateful messages. After almost eight hours of deliberation on Wednesday at Butler County Area I Court, the five-man, three-woman jury found Allen and Snow not guilty of criminal trespass and criminal mis­chief, both misdemeanors. A guilty verdict could have sentenced the men to 90 days in jail and a $750 fine. "I'm just glad it's over," said Allen, 22. "But it's not a redemption. A not-guilty verdict doesn't erase guilt in the minds of people." Both men voluntarily withdrew from school and were arrested in January, after the Ohio Bureau of Criminal Investigation and Identification linked them to 42 out of the 46 prints found on the fliers. Snow, who hopes to re-enroll at Miami to finish his last semester student teaching, said, "Look at all of the lost time I can't be given back." 
MIT housing undergoes changes 
MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY 
When the class of 2003 arrived on the Massachusetts Institute of Technology campus at the end of August, students did not have a permanent place to settle down and begin life at the university. Breaking with the col­lege tradition of pre-assigned living space and room­mates, MIT freshmen arrive on campus two weeks prior to the start of class and move into temporary uni­versity housing. During the two-week rush period, freshmen choose to live wherever they desire. The school's 36 fraternities, sororities and independent liv­ing groups and 10 university-affiliated on-campus hous­es hold activities, enticing freshmen with attractive liv­ing accommodations. In the wake of several alcohol and drug related problems, MIT's housing selection has been under much scrutiny. Last week junior Richard Guy died of asphyxiation from nitrous oxide poisoning in an East Campus dorm. Senior Susan Mosher and 1999 graduate Rene Ruiz, both 22, have been charged with seven counts of drug possession related to Guy's death. They will be arraigned in Middlesex District Court. 
The Observer . INSIDE 

THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Thursday 

. 
EDTV: Cushing Auditorium, 10:30 p.m. 

. 
Honors Assembly: Sankofa Scholars, Eck Canter, 7p.m. 

. 
Filipino American Student Oryanization: First general meeting, Notre Dame Room, 


8 p.rn. 
OUTSIDE THE DOME 
UNlVERSITY OF MICHIGAN 

Two minority advocate groups will be allowed to serve as co-defendants in the admissions lawsuits facing two University of Michigan schools as a result of a decision handed down by the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals in Cincinnati last month. 
The decision will delav the two law­suits that are challlmging the admis­sions processes of the University's Law School and College of Literature, Science and the Arts until next sum­mer. 
Miranda Massie, lead counsel for the defendants intervening in the suit facing the Law School, said the intro­duction of co-defendants is a signifi­cant victory. 
"The attack on affirmative action can only prevail if the truth is not let into the court room," Massie said. "We are elated. It is a historic turning 
Friday 

. Shakespeare in Love: 
Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum, 7:15 & 
9:45 p.m. 
. EDTV: Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 
10:30 p.m. 

"The attack on affirmative aclion can only prevail if the truth is not let into the court room. We are elated. It is a historic turning point." 
Miranda Massie lead counsel for the defendants 
point." 

The LSA suit is scheduled to begin some time next July or August, with the Law School case set to start Aug. 28, 2000. The cases originally were scheduled to go to trial this fall. 
The Washington, D.C.-based Center for Individual Rights filed the lawsuits in 1997 on behalf of three white applicants, contending that using 
Saturday 
. 
Football: at Purdue, WSBT-Ch. 22, 2:30 p.m. 

. 
EDTV: Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 


10:30 p.m. 

. Concert: 13ill Gaither, Joyce Center Arena, 6 p.m. 
race as a factor in admissions is unfair. 
LSA applicants Jennifer Gratz and Patrick Hamacher and Law School applicant Barbara Grutter claim they were unfairly denied admission, con­tending that li~ss-qua!ified minority applicants were admitted. 
The court's decision allowing tho inclusion of intervening defondants marks the first time minority advo­cates will be permitted to have their interests directly addressed in an affirmative action i.;ase. 
University Deputy General Counsel Liz Barry said trials were pushed back to allow the intervening defen­dants time to become fully acquaint­ed with the cases. 
"We welcome the intervenors because their point-of-view is rele­vant and important to the debate," Barry said. 
Thursday, September 9, 1999 
Sunday 
. 
Eucharistic Ministry Workshop: Basilica of the Sacred Heart, 2 p.m. 

. 
Lector Workshop: Basilica of'the Sacred Heart, 8 p.m. 

. 
BCAC: First general meeting, O'Neill Hall, 4 p.m. 


Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Thursday, September 9, 1999 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



Shalit advocates modesty among today's college students 
. Author discusses the disrespect today's culture possesses toward modesty 
l\y KATE WALTER Sraff\\V1it<·r 
"Don't lw ashanwd about what you should lw proud of," stat(•d 24-ynar old Williiuns Coll1•gp graduatn W1indy Shalit in a standing-room-only lncturn lwld W1•d11Psday in tlw llt'sburgh Lihrnry Auditorium. 
Shalit 's rPrPntly pub­

lish1·d hook Pnlitl<•d "/\ "Modesty is integrating Shalit addnd lfrturn t11 M11d1•sty" 1·on­your hopes and that modesty, nn t'Pr11s I.hi' history of' mod­the other hand.
integrating what you
t•st.y. tlw problPm COJH'.1'1"11-"exprnssns that ing tlw idl'als of nrndPsty want into your l{fe." ynu can be 
today and thP issuP of young womPn today who grPw up aftn tlw sPxual rt•volution. 
Slw bPt'.anw intPrPstPd in tlw idPa of' mrnh\stv during ht>r collq{P t\XflP;'iPncn at Williams. wh<'t'l' tlw u11ivPrsity n•quired Shalit to liw i11 co-Pd dorms, including sharing a ro-Pd bathroom. 
WP1hwsday's !Pcturn dnalt with Shalit's rnnc:Prn with today's "attack on mod­Psty." Shalit lwlinvPS that the advicn given to young girls today "is not in line with rnality." 
Photos and articl,is in pnpular w11111p11's magazi1rns such as Cosmopolitan and llarp,n's Hazaar, which display scantily-clad women and advisP young wompn to "keep married 11wn as pets," send thn mnssage that "tlwrp's sonmthing wrong with you il'you lll'liPvo in modnsty." 
Shalit statnd that in lwr own expnri­1mrn, nxprnssing lwr opposition to co-nd 
bathrooms and dorms led others to accus11 lwr of' being uncnml'ortable with h11r body. 
'Tm r.omfortabln with my body," said Shalit to hnr accusnrs. 'Tm not comfort­abln with vour bodies in such closo prox­imity to minn." 
Shalit also rnfutnd certain myths about mocl11sty that am accepted in today's socinty, including the idea that modesty is the cquivalnnt of' prudery. According to Shalit. modnsty is actually the opposito. 
"In stating that you will b() with no one or with anyone. both prudery and promiscuous1wss nxprnss the idna thal you can't b11 touclwd by anyonn or any­
thing," Shalit 
said. 
touched, and are simply waiting

Wendy Shalit 
for the right per­

author 
son to whom you 
want t.n give that 
privilege," 

"Mod11sty," according to Shalit, "is inte­grating your hopes and integrating what you want into your lifo." 
Shalit blllievns that women today should feel sncurn in their belief's, rather than fonl that they have to find excuses to "avoid the hook-up scene." 
Concluding the lecture by giving advice about what can be done to preserve the virtue of modesty, she stated that par­nnts have to be comfortable talking about human nature and giving advice to their children. 
"There arc children today who have no guidance, and are begging for it," said Shalit. 
"I urge you to speak your mind," said Shalit. ··uon't let the exhibitionist domi­nate our culture." 
SHANNON BENNETT I The Observer 

Author Wendy Shalit lectured in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium Wednesday about the negative attitude Generation X has toward modesty. 

CORRECTION 

Father Patrick Sullivan was identified incorrectly in Wednesday's Observer. Sullivan is the director of undergraduate studios in sociology and a member of the Higgins-Labor Research Center. 
The Observer regrets the error. 
c) Ftursda1, September 9 ~or Seniors, 2nd Ye'ar ~CB-7'\S, and S'\.S in 7\CcountanC! Students Capeer ~orum, 6:00 pm to 8:30 pm 
<frida1, September 10 ~or 1st Ye'ar ~AS, EJuniors, Sophomores and g;resftmen Capeer ~orum, 10:00 am to 3:30 pm Cfnfonnation Sessions, 9:,35 am to 2:45 pm 
(Ilusiness 7'\!tire CEncoura9ed 


page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 9, 1999 
Two years ago, more than 2,000 crossed the line and D M • •••••~
ata 1n1n, ,ov, • • • • 

entered the base. 
•
•
•
•

RUSSIA • 
Explosion kills 15 •• in Moscow 
there are a lot more people
Asrnciated Press 
in there. It's really unlikely there are any lel't alive," 'vtOSCOW said Nikolai Vavkhenin, an 
Authorities searched for emergency worker. 
survivors and clues today The blast left a gaping after an explosion tore hole in the center of the apart a nine-story Moscow building, locat1~d in a. resi­
apartment building, killing dential area near fields at least 15 people and and railway tracks. Some leaving dozens more people living in neighbor­feared dead in the rubble. ing buildings were injured Rescue workers said at by ilying glass and debris. least 60 people were hos­"I got up and rushed out pita Iized with serious of my room. I had heard injuries after being pulled my brother screaming from the wreckage. Up to because pieces of window 100 people could be glass had cut him ... trapped in the debris, they Outside it felt like everyone said. was screaming, and then 
The Federal Security there was the smell of 
Service, the country's main burning," said one woman intelligence agency. who survived the explo­launched an investigation sion, She gave only her 
into the blast. Prime first name, Olga. Mini!-lter Vladimir Putin Rescue teams used and other officials said ii cranes, bulldozers and 
When you w

appeared to have been a dump trucks to remove 
State iarm

natural gas explosion, but mangled trees and huge at State Far 

lnJormation Technolo,ies

authorities said they could slabs of shattered mason­
Information 

not yet rule out a terrorist ry. 
Technologies, you

attack. The explosion shattered ••••••The powerful blast shook windows in buildings hun­work with some of the the southeast Moscow dreds of yards from the 
most powerful computer systems 

neighborhood shortly after blast and flipped over cars midnight. Early today, in surrounding streets. known to man. Advanced servers and more than 100 rescuers Several bodies were 
intranet applications. Innovative middleware and
t.:ombeu the wreckago for hurled more than ;10 yards survivors. Fire and choking from the building. databases. Development tools that push the limits. 
smoke made it unlikely Sixty ambulances and 45 
And for those who prefer retro toys, we still have Interested in an IT career at State Farm?
that anyone trapped in the fire trucks were at the 
Visit us at www.statefarm.com/careers/.

rubble had survived, res­scene along with Moscow mainframes to keep you busy well beyond Y2K. 
Please reier to job code TOYS/CS cue workers said. Mayor Yuri Luzhkov and when e-mailing or faxing your resume. 

SMC 
continued from page 1 

located, to protest the programs there, lie also has fasted to draw attention to the actions of SOA graduates, in hopes the school would be shut down. "Our bodies grew weak, but our hope was really strong," he said, Bourgeois called on students to join in a protest planned for October at Fort Benning. I le said he hopes 5,000 people will join him to enter the base in protest. . 
T 
will assure that thousands of

Sweeney "forgotten" individuals will not be left behind. 
Bourgeois 
continued from page I 

protest by trespassing onto Fort Benning property. Bourgeois' first-hand experi­eace of prison comes from these protests. 
"Thev tell me I am breaking the law by trespassing, but I follow a higher law. A law that savs suffering must be stopped," he says. "They call it 'civil disobedience,' but I ca11 it 'divinn obedience.· " 
Together with four Notre l)ame students, he has been hoping to make an impact with speeches in the past two days at both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
Sophomore Brendan Egan. who was the principal organiz­er of Bourgeois' trip to cam­pus, has b1:ie11 involved with service !'or many years, most recently making a summer trip to El Salvador. Also leading the way and vowing to partic-. ipate in November are Liz Moriarty, Shelia McCarthy and Michael-Jo_hn My1>tte. These students look to Bourgeois as their leader both in the fight for justice and spiritually, 
Bour·geois' rise to promi­nence started after college, when be joined the military and fought in Vietnam. Disillusioned with the mean­ingless death and violence of war, he met a missionary that changed his life. After complet­ing the seminary, he was ordained into the priesthood and assigned to Bolivia to help the poor, 
While there, he saw first• hand aU of the military brutali­ty and joined a resistance movement. His involvement angerPd the oppressive govern­mc n t there, causing his removal from Bolivia. 
Soon, another issue attracted his attention. On Nov. 16,. 1989, a massacre in El Salvador erupted. Archbishop Romero. whom Bourgeois admired and considered "a voice for the voiceless, " was brutally murdered while saying Mass. Romero spoke out against violence and had been a voice filled with hope for peace i.n the troubled region. 
Archbishop Romero was killed by Roberto D'Aubuisson's death squads. After looking into the terror­ist's history, Bourgeois discov­ered that he was trained at the School. of Americas in the United States. So began what has .become a ten-year quest for him and his followers. 
I-lope seems to be rising for the School of Americas Watch. On July 30, the House of Representatives passed a bill to cut off some funding for th<' School, and now the bill is on its way to the Senate. Bourgeois attributed this suc­cess to the fervent letter-writ­ing of taxpayers, who do not want their money to contribute to the training of potential ter­rorists. 
A strong sense of' unity is shown by Hourgeois and his student organizers all across the country, 
llis parting words were signs of his growing strength as an organizer: "You just can't do it all by yourself', you need oth­ers. Present your issue, a.nd if it is noble and worthy, others will come. " 

continued from page I 
coming as a result of that early education, and that means better results for workers, he contended. 
Ultimately, Sweeney said, he wants protection for those forced to live paycheck to paycheck. 
"For many," said Sweeney, "unions are the only way out. And we want to make sure the government works as hard to protect them as it does to protect corporate executives," 
The transforming of unions into si'gnificant political forces was also a key aspect to Sweeney's new image of the labor movement. Envisioning a world uf social and econom­ic justice, the AFL-CIO head called for an end to a nation "where the moneyed few make all the decisions," and the wage and wealth gap between classes is the largest in the world. 
Labor unions, he argued, 
"People shouldn't have to work so hard, and so long, that they end up with nu time to spend with their families," said Sweeney. 
"For God's sake," he said, "why can't we protect human beings; that's all we're ask­ing." 
Sweeney's lecture was titled, "Why Workers Will Need Unions in the 21st Century" and was the 22nd annual Stefl! Workers Lloyd McBride Lecture at Notre Dame. 
Sweeney is the thir<l presi­dent of' the AFL-CIO, and he started his career in tlrn labor movement with the International Ladies Garment Workers. 
He ~ater moved on to thr, Service Employees International Union, which saw membership increaso from 625,000 to 1.1 million in his 16 years as president. 
Sweeney's hook, "America Needs a Haise," has been praised by business leaders. 

"One thing's for sure, other senior officials. [-mail: HRSF@STATEFARM COM or FAX: 309-763-2831. State farm Insurance Companies • Home Offices. Bloomington. Illinois An Equal Opportunity Employer 

orld 
•I 
n 
Thursday, September 9, 1999 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 -------------------------~ ----·------­
-===============-=-:__::_::.-...:.-:...::~-------------------------­
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Trains celebrate Beatles 
LONDON 
It may 11ol lw a submarirw, but it doos travnl u111lnrwalPr. Tim Furostnr train system unvcil(id a special Bnatlcs Express on W1id1wsday i11 honor of' lhn r11issuo of" tlrn baud's I1)h8 1·inmnalic landmark. "Tlw Yellow Suhmaritrn." Tlw brilliantly adorned Express pul!Pd oul of I.ondon·s Wat(ffloo station for its inaugural trip unc!Pr Urn English Channol and on to l'aris. Tlw servicP will nm thrne lime:; a rlav h1~lWPl'll London. Paris and BrussPls until 1>1ic(~mlrnr. All 18 Express carriages am dm:o­ral1id with psycimddic imagos from tlrn lilm, in which tlw BHatles lrav1•I in a magical Ydlow Submarine to l'cp1wrland and libero.le the country from tlH'. music-hating Blun Mna!li(!S. "I think it looks absolutely brilliant," said BridgPt Ilearrw. 55, f'rom Glastonbury Sonwrsct, who boardml I.he train wilh her 
daughter. 
Majority of drug users work full time 
WASllll\f(;TON 
Sc!Vt!fl in 10 pnoplP who us11d ill<igal drugs in 11; 1)7 had l'ull-li1rn1 jobs. tho g:ov11rn111011l rnports. O!Tirials hopo tlw clata will dispel 11otio11s lltal most drug usPrs am burnml oul and discon,wctNI from tlw mainslrnam. "Thi• Lyp!cal drug user is not poor and unnm­ployncl," said Barry McCallrny, Lim Whitu Ilous,• drug policy dir1ictor. "I It! or slw can be ,l co-work1•r, ii husband or wife. a parenl." About h.:l million full-tinrn work1'.rs. ages l 8 to 49 -or 7.7 porcnnt -aclmitlml in 1997 using illngal drugs in thn prt!cnding month, l!('rnrding lo thn rnport isstwd evnry fow years by tlw Dl'partment of lloalth and lluman Snrvit'HS. Tim µroporlion has b<HHl stnady sinni l'l'Ji:!. WorkC'rs in restaurants. burs, con­strnction and transportation wnrc more likely than othors to use drugs, tho rqrnrt. said. 
Alleged railroad killer won't defend self 
IIOUSTON 
Alll:god railroad killer Angel Maturino Hmmndiz has changed his mind about repre­Sl'nt ing himsnlf and will konp his court­appoi11t1•d allor111•ys. Maturino llmmndiz told a ju<lgP Ttwsday hn wantPd l~> act as his nwn lawy<'r. But he dropp<'d · tlw rnquest WPd1wsday and apologized for causing "prob­!f•ms." !11\ said Im will a.llow lawynrs Allnn T,u111cr and Hudy Duart11 to rnprnsnnt him but lw still do1•s not know wlrn will prnscnl his ras1• at trial. Maturino Hesnndiz, 40, has been lrnld sinco his s11rre11dnr in El Paso 011 .July l3. 111• is awaiting trial in one of nine killings nalionwidn to which police say he is linked. 
Market Hirtch: 9/8 

Dow 
AMEX: 
79239

]ONES 
-I .2K Up: 
Nasdmi:

11036.34 1143 

2808.74 
28.52 

Bl 
NYSE: 
Down:
621.87 
l.3!UI
-1.84 
S&I' SOO: 
134-1.15 

Coniposite
-n.:io 

Volume: +2.21 707,400,000 
VOlUME LEADERS 


1 OMl'AN) \C,AIN J'H:I< l 
f.l,Offl. ('RO\,M~f~ ;,~.l_.1~ ut:l,l.('Ul\o'1l'llrf.H -1:•,~u INHl.('ORI' ,l.6M,ff 
~11( MOM>t·T ( ORI' 0 %,00IIO 
UW.A.n.t.{OH.I' , '"D.·t'n~ 
,"n,,,..,,._,,., 
-1.~J!I -,ri1t11u:~ ~N< -l.1"1011 Rf.llllMIN(' tll,7,<JU 
,1u RON lH'll ·-'.ll~O ,1!N4(,f 10:\0N Pi •ll.9'97' 
INDONESIA 
U.N. delays exit from East Timor 
Associated Prus 

DILi 

The United Nations heeded the 
pleas of East Timoreso refugees 
Wednesday and delayed the evacua­
tion of its mission to the Indonesian 
province, fearing the withdrawal 
could end in mass bloodshed. 
As the ref'ugecs streamed out of the embatlled territory lo escape rampaging militias, witnesses chargpfl that soldiors were looting throughout Dili. Humors of mass slaughters swept thrnugh rnfugec camps. 
International efforts to resolve the crisis moved ahead with a meeting between a high-level U.N. delegation and Indonesia's l'ornign minister. 
The Vatican endorsed a proposal !'or a U.N. peacekeeping l'orce, lhough U.S. officials appeared hesi­tant. Britain said it is sending a war­ship and about a dozen military planr11'rs to the region to prepare. 
[\1ore than 2,000 people have crowded into Urn U.l\i. compound in Dili, thn provincial capital. Many said pro-Indonesian militias would kill them if the U.N. workers left. 
At U.N. headquarters in New York, Sccrntary-Gn1wral Kofi Annan said the pull.out or the remaining 206 international of'licials and 167 East Timorose working for the world body would be delayed 24 hours. He also said Im is trying lo keep a small 
ll.N. presence in the violence-torn province to prot11ct innocent civil­ians. 
The move came after the U.N. workers announced plans to !lee Dili on Thursday morning. Witnesses who ventured into the U.N. workers leave, said a promi­
Indonesian military leaders in deserted streets Wednesday said nent student leader in tlrn com­Jakarta denied reports that the Indonesian soldiers were "looting pound, who declined to be identified president planned to resign over the everything in sight," carrying furni­for fear of retribution. "They will Timor debacle. The capital was hit ture out or abandoned houses and simply kill all of us as soon as you by a half-dozon protests, both pro­loading it onto trucks. leave." 
and anti-government. "They are trying to kill all the edu­Refugees streamed out of East Violence in East Timor exploded in cated people so we cannot develop Timor as troops and militiamen con­the wake of an Aug. 30 U.N.-super­our country," said a pro-indepen­tinued to terrorize the population. 
vised referendum, in which the East dence activist who reached the U.N. U.N. officials estimated that up to Timorese overwhelmingly voted to compound Wednesday. "This is a 200,000 people -a quarter of the becomr> independent from good-bye operation." territory's population -have fled in ·Indonesia. The U.N. compound has been sur­the past several days. 
Since tlw11, Indonesian troops and rounded by Indonesian troops, who In lndonesian-c:ontrollcd West lhPir proxies have benn looting have helped militiamen block access Timor, rumors of mass slaught1ir in 
houses, shooling people and driving to it. On Wednesday, bursts of' adjacent East Timor wnre swneping others out in an apparent effort to machine gun fire could be heard fast-growing rnf'ugee camps, wlrnrn punish the populace and subvert outside the compound. · an estimated 50,000 peopl11 wern indeµendenco. "It will be the holocaust here" if taking shelter. 

Bejing picks national theater design 
Square, the symbolic heart oconomic problems. The ognizable as a Chinese the­
Auodatcd Press 
of China. hole is now a parking lot !'or ater and in harmony with The new theater will mail trucks in a guarded, Tiananmen Square.BEI.IING 
stand just west of the Great walled lot full of' weeds and The design chosen is byFor 40 years, Beijing has Hall of the People, an scraggly trees. Paul Andreu of Paris, tlrn 
wanted to build a national 
imposing Stalinist building Public interest in China's Ministry of Construction theater to svmholize the ½ith tall gray stone columns first big civic architncturc said. Andreu helpnd build pride and m,;ctcrnity of the 
and Chinese-styln green and project in 40 years revived the Grande Arch11 dn la New Chiua. yellow glazed-tile caves. last summer when pro­Defense west of Paris and Tlw time has l"inally 
Across the broad Avenue posed designs submitted by the Channel Tumwl termi­arrived. and the choice is a 
of' Eternal Peacll from the 44 architects. about hall' of nal in Calais and also is starklv modern French site of the new,th1•ater lies them foreign, were dis­working on a new Shanghaidesign ·or a glass dome in a 
Zhongnanhai, the walled played in the Museum of' airport.lake -dismaying some compound of ornate impcri• Hevolntionary History. The Thu committee made its critics who argue the monu­al villas where China's lead­public was invited to com­choice in July and top ment lacks Chinese charat­ers live and work. Alongside ment, and many favored a Communist Party leaders 
tnristics. 
Zhongnanhai is the imperial glass building with a light. approved it, said i:ommittee 
Whntlrnr the Chinese pub­
palace, or Forbidden City. futuristic air. spokeswoman Yu Yanmei. lic likes it remains to be 
A national theater was A selection commiLtee .Jiang Zhcnghui of the 
seen because state media 
first proposed in 1958 by originally rejnctod all lnstitutn of' City Planninghave not yet announced 
Premier Chou En-lai. A entries and demanded revi­and Design Ol'licti said the plans for the project, to be 
huge hole was dug, but sions, calling for a building procedures had not been built near Tiananmen 
work stopped because of that was immediately rec-finalized. 
page 6 The Observer . BUSINESS NEWS Thursday, September 9, 1999 
JAPAN 
'All Nines Day' goes as planned in Asia 
Associated Press 
TOKYO 

On the high-tech side, it was -as expected -a snoozer. And the rumors of rebellion in secluded Myanmar appeared Lo be overblown. 
13ut a rare alignment of' nines on the calendar tuday provided an excuse for thou­sands of superstilious people around the world to head out of town, try a little gambling or even get married. 
Some computer experts had warned of potential problems with old programs that might mistake the date 9-9-99 with a code used io end an operation. 
Though few had expected any serious malfunctions, the "9999 bug" was seen by some as a possible dry-run ahead of the Year 2000 problem, in which computers unable to properly handle the change from the year 1999 to 2000 on Jan. 1 go haywire. 
If today was any indication, the Y2K bug could be a breeze. 
To be safe. the Bank of Japan added $2. 7 billion worth of Treasury bills Wednesday,· and even more today, because of concerns that foreign banks might be in need of cash should any com­puter problems arise. 
But a bank official said that as of late this morning. there had been no reports of prob­lems. 
Still, while the All Nines appeared to be shaping up to be just another day in the computer world, it was any­thing but ordinary for thou­sands of gamblers, eccentrics and lovers across the world. 
The Japan Travel Bureau, this country's largest travel agency. commemorated the date with a package tour for 99 peqple that included air­fare to New York or Orlando, Fla. for 99,999 yen (about $909). 
In Malaysia, four-digit lot­tery ticket hawkers were on a roll, Tho Sun newspaper reported, with "9999" being a hot bet at lottery outlets. And 999 senior citizens were to attempt to set a new ­albAit obscure -Malaysian record for the largest gather­ing al older persons in a cir­cus. 
!\1alaysian couples were also rushing to get married. Ninety-nine couples took lheir wedding vows in a mass ceremony at exactly 
9:09 a.m. at a Buddhist tem­ple in the capital of Kuala Lumpur. The number uf Malaysian couples register­ing to be married today was nearly three times the daily average, according to the government. 
A rush of weddings was also expected in Japan and China. And, not to be out­done, a mass marriage was to be held at the monkey house of the Berlin Zoo. 
Bucking the trend was Taiwan, where a conflicting tradition -the end of Ghost Month -makes many people consider Thursday to be bad luck. Along with marriages, there were likely to be fewer people eating out there as well. 
Not all of Nines Day was lighthearted. 
Over the past few weeks there have been persistent rumors that activists in Myanmar might be plotting an uprising to coincide with the Nines Day. which they consider auspicious. 
Apparently taking such rumors seriously, the Myanmar government had recently detained 16 pro­democracy activists, and Thai troops on the Myanmar border were put on alert. 
The Thai government is concerned that fighting might erupt between Myanmar forces and those of the Karen National Union, one of the last remaining ethnic insurgency groups fighting the central govern­ment. 
r------------------------, 
~ itlec1.-Vtlc1zes J 
"Contemporary Hair Styles 7 Days A Week" 

WELCOME BACK SPECIAL: 
Hours: M-F 9-8 SAT 9-5 SUN 11-4 
Walking distance to campus!! 
L------------------------J 
Delta, pilots begin contract talks 
Associated Press 

ATLANTA 
After seeing Delta Air Lines'proftts surpass $1 billion for lwo straight years, the car­rier's pilots are lining up for a bigger slice of the pie. 
Delta and its 9,200 pilots opened contract talks Wednesday by exchanging pro­posals six months before the current contract's "amendable date" of May 2000. Neither side disclosed specif'ic salary wishes, which arc expected to dominate the talks. 
To help push the nation's third-largest carrier back to profitability, pilots offered Delta substantial wage conces­sions during the last contract negotiations in 1996 and are seeking to recoup them in the new contract. 
Atlanta-based Delta posted a record $1 billion profit in 1998 for the second straight year. 
The Delta contract talks come at a time of increased airline industry profitability ­and labor strife. 
Last year, Northwest pilots went on a 15-day strike before reaching a contract with the airline. And American Airlines pilots staged an illegal job action in February over the integration of Reno Airlines into the airline's operations, disrupting hundreds of thou­sands of flights. 
The talks won't be easy or short, said Julius Maldutis, an analyst with CIBC Oppenheimer. 
"After six consecutive years of profit, it's not surprising that (airline) labor in general has grown much more mili­tant," said Maldutis, who pre­dicted the Delta talks will lead to federal mediation. "The pilots are saying. 'We want it of regional jet flying performed back, plus some."' by Delta subsidiaries, growth 
Capt. Chuck Giambusso, in the number of pilot jobs and chairman of the Delta pilots' better vacation and retirement union, called benefits. 
the pilots' pro­posal "ambi­ 'The pilots are saying.  The pilots also want a  
tious, but fair." "We are committed lo  'We want it back, plus some.'"  voting mem­ber on Delta's  
our  company  board  of  
and to achiev­ Julius Maldutis  directors,  
ing a timely and superior  analyst  instead of the nonvot­ 
agreement,"  ing seat they  

he said at a news conference. now hold, and elimination of a 
Besides salary raises, the lower pay scale for pilots who pilots am seeking better train­fly for Delta Express, Della's ing pay, codification of rest low-cost unit based in Orlando, rules, reduction in the amount Fla. 
Attention All H.U.G.S. Members: 
What: Informational Meeting When: Thursday, Sept. 9th 1999 5:00 -6:00 PM 
csc 

···r you cannot attend or have ,any questions, call Jeanne, Amy, or Jessica at 247-1689 

Find out more about: 
The Sacraments ofInitiation BAl'IISM, EUCHARIST & CONFIRMA110N: 
Are you thinking about becoming Catholic? 
, ;.--··· .. ' :r'--; ;,"'\, f' .. ~ ·; 

for uti'baptized persons wanting to become a member _of the Ca'thollc •·Church~ ·, 
Fvu .COMMUNION: 
L~l'(fgo)a)fi~d'bersons wanting ,_ Full Communion in the " iCatholic Jraditionl1 Fj !I r; .·?,:
\...._J . . .. r ...... · ... , . , · , ·,:,·..J•;';L.,/µ.~,. ..,• .

For more info, contact: 
Tami Schmitz 
@ 
631-3016 Badin hall 
-
(?MPUS 

Thursday, September 9, 1999 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
STUDENT SENATE 
Group debates Rolfs' closing time 
. Members agree to consult Rolfs on issue before debate 
Ry FINN PRESSLY J\s.i<1,1111 News Editor 
A rPstdution calling for lalnr closing limPs at Urn Holfs HncSports H11crcalic111 Cenlt!r Lopped tho agenda of last night's nwnling ol' the Stucl1•nl S1matf1. 
"t\t 11 :30 lat nighll. a young lady jogged past us alon1• toward Lhn lakHs," K1iough senator Brian O'llonoght11• said, nxplaining thu impetus !"or Urn resolu­tion. 
C111Tl'ntly. the facility closlls at 11 p.m., and under the proposed rnsolulion. llrn hours would he extcnd1~d until midnight. During certain tinws last ynur, BHcSports did cl11LngP tlrn closing tim,i to midnight. and nwm!Jors of tlw st•1111lP inquir1id as lo why this didn't happ1111 year-round. 
"l.ast senrnstnr the hours WPrn al 12, so iL's not like tlwy havm1'L dorm il or limy 
after fall break or
can't do it." said Knott senator 
Thanksgiving break. Thomas
Ed F()v. 
said.

Brn~in-l'hilips senalor 
The senators responsible forLPauna Thomas. who worknd drafling the measure had nolat the facilily last yPar, said y(il contacted HecSports offi­tliP dosing-Limn was extended 
cials regarding the prnposal.
to midnight !asl year rrom 
so llrn resolution was tabledThanksgiving break to Easter until thn nnxL meeting of thnhrnak. Plans arP it1 place to s1inate, which will beimplPnrnnt Lhn samn l10urs 

Wednesday, Sept. 15. 
Senators briefly discussed the ticket distribution system and the manner in which members are quoted by The Observer in Student Senate meetings. 
They also celebrated Student Cnion secretary Luciana Heali 's 19th birthday. 

BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Members study SMC parking squeeze 
By COURTNEY BOYLE 
News Writer 
The parking problem issue dominated Wednesday night's Board of Governance (BOG) meeting at Saint Mary's. 
As of this year, Saint Mary's College is in need of a plan for overflow parking and gennral parking for students. 'This year alone there 
ings outside the doors, where theft could occur. 
The computnr lab hours were also addressed at Wedrwsclay's meeting. Currnntly. the 24-hour lounge in the library is closed from 11 :45 p.m. until 1 a.m. for cleaning. Students are then left with the computers in the writ­ing center. However, sinco th11 writing centor computers are hooked up t~ computers in the 
computer lab, 

were 508 rns­students arc
"This year alone there 
idence park­left strandnd 
were ,t;o8 residence
ing passes for over an sold for 437 parking passes sold hour. spots" said In addition
for 43 7 spots. " 
Richard to policy con­Chlebek, cc rns. BOG director of Richard Chlebek also planned 
Safety and director of Safety and Security soveral events 
Security. 

BOG has been working on resolving the parking spaces problem along­with off-campus commissioner Beth Beatty's concerns about safety for off campus students. Her concerns included the con­venience of commuting stu­dents who have to park in the science lot. Beatty's concerns were addressed by Cheblak, who suggested the shuttle sys­tem and escort service provid­ed for after hours. 
Another issue that BOG is working on is the Noble Family Dinning Hall changes. Students have expressed concern regarding leaving their belong-
f'or students 

and faculty on campus. For examph~. mem­bers of BOG can be seen in the Dining Jlall runnirrg-Hall Council Elections. and student body vice president Angie Little discussmJ the Sept. 15 welcome back party for the students who went abroad last year. 
Some other events f'or the month of Scptembnr discussed were: The Grace Under Pressure Etiquette Training Seminar on Sept. 15, The Twilight Tailgate on Sept. 16, the Catholic Social Training Retreat scheduled for Sept. 21. and Dash for Dollars on Sept. 22. 

QO@@~lJ[1@[ru@)D@ 
$1COVER 
(with college I.D., must be 21)
COLLeGe n1GHT 
SOUTH BEND'S BIGGEST PARTY 
~----\ ' =~=ill~! 
222 s. Michigan• South Bend• (219) 234-5200 www.ACEplaces.com/heartland Call the Heartland Concert & Event Line (219) 251-2568 
page 8 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, September 9, 1999 
GREECE VENEZUELA 
Quake unites Greek,Turk 
rescuers 
Associated Press 
ATHENS 
As the death toll from the quake that rocked Athens rose above 60 Wednesday, Greek and Turk res­cuers again found themselves in a position they would have found unusual before last month; work­ing side-by-side. 
Elsewhere, inspectors began assessing fractured buildings that could leave thousands homeless. On a brighter note, archaeologists said Athens' famed monuments, including the Acropolis and the Temple of Zeus, sustained no major damage. 
Twenty Turks were the first for­eign rescue team to reach the city's most battered areas. Ashundreds looked on, they joined Greeks -their longtime archrivals -in slowly chipping through concrete at a collapsed cleaning products factory in search of 30 trapped workers. 
Turks had praised Greece for the quick and extensive help fol­lowing the Aug. 17 earthquakein Turkey that claimed more than 
15.000 lives. Their teamwork caused political leaders on both sides of the Aegean Sea to reassess their positions. The two nations have nearly gone to war_ three times in the past 25 years over territorial disputes. 
"It is good. This is the second time we meet the Greeks. Now it is our turn," said Iskender Eigeir of Turkey. 
Fire and health officials said Wednesday that at least 64 peo­ple died in Tuesday's quake and more than 2,000 were injured. Dozens more were reported miss­ing from working-class apartment blocks and Gypsy camps in the Athens area, where the magni­tude 5.9 quake sent residents rac­ing from homes and offices as glass and debris rained down on them. 
The collapsed factory was a focus of the rescue effort. Searching for survivors among the rubble, rescue crews punched out crawl spaces with picks and jackhammers. 
They managed to pull out two survivors -a man and a woman -from deep in the debris more than 32 hours after the quake, and another woman was known to be alive in the same area of the rubble. But Fire Chief Panaghiotis Fouras said there were doubts many others would emerge alive. 
"Please. tell me everything will be all right," pleaded a man embracing a friend outside the factory, where the man's liancee was among those pinned under five stories of concrete and steel. 
Anxious and sleep-starved crowds, including relatives of those missing, gathered behind police lines at the factory site. Some fashioned sun hats out of the factory's aluminum foil. 
UNIVERSITY llUNDRY & TANNING SEPTUIBH SPECIALS: 
FREE DRYING All MONTH DROP Off lAUNORY 49C /lB. $4MINIMUM 
TANNING 10 VISITS $19.99 TO BE USED WITHIN 3MONTHS 

Judges defend court's decision in Venezuela 
recession. been fired by the national judges council About 200 bankers fled the country and that supervises the country's judges.
Associated Press 
have been living overseas as fugitives. To Assembly members said another 50 could 
date, just one has been extradited to soon follow. 
CARACAS Venezuela. The scandal caused thou­A judicial oversight commission that 
One of the judges who created an sands of depositors to lose their money. recommended the firings to the judges uproar by throwing out charges against Raising his voice, Echegaray told council said it also would recommend the two dozen bankers in one of Latin Globovision that his decision to free the immediate suspension of Echegaray and America's biggest banking scandals bankers was based on changes made in Pennacio. Commission members said offered a fiery defense on live television the laws by legisla-they were also Wedm,sday, insisting the decision was tors who gave then­reviewing another perfectly legal and that officials have no President Rafael "Our decision is perfectly in line 3,500 formal accusa­right to reverse it. Caldera special pow­tions of corruption
with the law" 
"Our decision is perfectly in line with c rs to address the against Venezuelan the law," Judge Arnoldo Echegaray told banking crisis. judges. Globovision. "There's a moun­Arnoldo Echegaray Most of the allega­
Echegaray and Judge Carmen Elena tain of ridiculous judge tions have been Pennacio provoked an outcry when they judicial" laws, he shelved for years by dropped charges last Friday against said. the judges council. executives and midlevel employees of Judge Pennacio which has been wide­four Venezuelan banks that were caught has since attempted to revoke her ruling, ly accused of ignoring corruption in the up in a 1994 scandal that nearly sent the but Echegaray said that'simpossible. judiciary. entire financial system under. "The decision is unalterable." The special investigating commission is 
The government was forced to take The court ruling came amid a shakeup trying to change that, but some critics over 18 banks and financial institutions of a justice system that many consider argue that it is overstepping its legal -40 percent of the system's total -and among the most corrupt in the world. A bounds since the Supreme Court has spend $10 billion on a bailout that sent powerful new Constitutional Assembly ruled that the Constitutional Assembly's inflation spiraling to record levels and controlled by President Hugo Chavez only mission is to write a new constitu­plunged the economy into a prolonged annoum;ed Tuesday that eight judges had tion. 

We didn't become Fortune• magazine's America's Most Admired Companr' by accepting the status quo. 
PleaseJoin GE at the 
We got there by hiring and training graduates with the 
Business Career Forum
confidence and courage to think in innovative and revolutionary ways. 
Sept. 9th -6:30 -8:30 pm &
No other corporation can match the diversity of opportunities at GE. Because we have small company 
Sept 10th -10:00 am -3:30 pm 
attitudes with large company strengths, we set no limits, 
College ofBusiness Administration 
no bowidaries. You can move from industry to industry, discipline to discipline, and never leave GE. 
(Stop by to discuss full-time and intern 
opportunities -bring your resume)
We're a leader in every business we compete in, 
and we're looking for leaders like Thanh who will take 
Pl.ease confirm dates & lim~s wilh your 
us even further. Start your career by visiting our website 
Career Placement Office/or any last minule changes. 
now. An Equal Opportunity Employer. 
Learn abput ~f a~,/·,,~1: ,.m 
www.gecareers.com ·,­

We bring good things to life. 
GE Aircraft Engines• GE Appliances• GE Capital Services• GE Corporate Research and Development• GE Industrial Systems GE Information Services· GE Lighting• GE Medical Systems· GE Plastics• GE Power Systems• GE Supply• GE Transportation Systems• NBC '3/1/99 
Thursday, September 9, 1999 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Bradley announces bid for 2000 presidential nomination 
argued from the sleps of' his old school PTA and 5,000 of the In his 35-minute address llis late father was a Anociatecl Prc-,'i::'i high school in this on11 stoplight local ladies' home-baked snick­delivered in a level voice with Hnpublican, Bradley said with a Mississippi Hiver hamlet. lie erdoodles, oatmeal clusters and the help of a TelePrompTer, the sly grin, but worked with town CHYSTAL CITY, :v1o. lamented that one in five chil­chocolate chip cookies stood in former New Jersey senator Democrats to build the high 
Bill BradlPy, walking tlw dron livP in poverty, and 45 mil­for apple pie to complete struck themes commonly heard school in 1939. small-town haunts of his boy­lion i\mericans lack health Bradley's vision of perfect from Core's critics. "We can do big jobs again, if lmod, dnrrind tlm cmrent day's insurance. Americana. 'Tm more interested in lead-we do them togethnr," Bradley politics of' Government should not do He earn e ership than said. "l r if Ii n g "trifling things much of the timn home buoyed polls and poli­An only child, Im rnmmnbercd
"I'm more interested in
things" and for some people. but it should by a weekend tics," Bradley his late schoolwachnr mother a s k n d bn doing somn large and essen­poll that leadership than said. organizing youth dunces in the A1111' r i nlns tial things all of the time for the showed that He drew family basement and added,
polls and politics. " 

to follow whole nation." he and Gorn approving with an apologntic nod to his him toward Strictl)r gun control, campaign were running nods and wife, Ernestine, "I still can't get higgPr f'inancf' reforms, universal neck and Bill Bradley whistles when, b1•yond the same awkward two­clrPams. lwalth insuranc11 and the eradi­neck in New democratic presidential hopeful in an apparent step shn taught in our living "W1• ll('l\d ii r.ation or child pov1\rty made his llampshirc, contrast with romn." rinw kinrl of' list of' big, essontial goals. the first pri• Gorn and Thr. Bradloys' 22-yoar-old i.~adNsh ip," "W1~ will do fower things. but mary state. But he still has to Hepublican front-runner George daughtnr. Tlrnresa i\nne. is a Ill' c!Prlan•d Wmlrwsday. Llwy will be nssnntial things and ovnrcome surveys suggesting hr. W. Bush, he noted that he grew cullegn student and studying 
In a fall kil'ko!T rnllv for a we will do thorn more thorough­rnrnains rrlatively unknown ·up "without a famous family overseas. pn\sid11ntial rampaign that has ly." nationwide. name or great wealth." Bradley provpd his financial IH•P11 undurway !'or months, · Arter months ol' low-profile Even here, Kim Casey said she The adiiring hometown crowd viability in the first half of this llradh·y sought lo o!Ter campaigning. Bradlr,y staged knew little of Bradley, having stood to applaud Bradley's year by amassing some $12 mil­lkrnorrnls a rt~ason for choos­this mom-and-appln-pie-ev1rnt moved to Crystal City from St. promise of "a new kind or lead­lion in campaign donations lo ing him ovur Vien l'rnsidnnt Al with hopes of more broadly Louis three ynars. ership -a leadership that puts Gore's $18 million. Con• d1•spi LP an c•<·.1111omy that introducing himself' and ·what he · Manning the sno-cone table, the people front and center, not Now, Bradley hopes to use has sonrPd during his rival's called the "small-town boy" Casoy, a 35-year-old mother the president." detailed policy announcements wnur,•. nthos hn brings to polilics. and grocery clnrk, said she was While the Clinton-Gore -on child poverty, universal 
Iii, appPa!Pd t() lradilional llandsnwn bicn11te11nial flags nonetheless sum Bradley would administration unbudgingly lrnalth care, the economy and n1\rno1-ratif' syrupathil~s for tlw w11re retrieved l'rom the "set the country's standards to faced off with _congressional foreign policy -lo overcome disadvantaged. library's storagn to fostoon thn whern we come from -family Republicans this week over tax other surveys suggesting that 
"Whal Wt' rn·Pd in /\nwrira is oaks along Mississippi /\venue. valuns, whcro overybody sticks cuts, Bradley also sounded a he remains relalivPly unknown a dPrqwr prospnrily," Bradlny Sno-cotrns from the (~lcmentary together." bipartisan notn. nationwide. 


WE'RE AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER WITH UNEQUALEO OPPORTUNITIES FOR EMPLOYMENT. 
___.. 
~------;
N' 
; 
, .,, ,_' ' 
.. I tf~t,;~t. t_,-ftM,J,.¾t ._t,,,'i(,'';:}~~,.. ,...d 
"f'l ·• ·-1J';" ',
,-7 
-~ ,.'r"'J.:.~·\·, 
If you're majoring in computer science, data processing, accounting, auditing, math or law, contact your Placement Director for more infom1ation. or write to: Assistant Director. Corporate Human Resources, Three State Farm Plaza-KI, Bloomington, lllinois 61791-000 I. 
State Farm Insurance Companies• Home Offices: Rloomington, lllinois • An Equal Opportunity Employer www.statefarm.com 
Forbes comments on GOP's tax cut 
Associated Press 
LAUREL, Dnl. 

Steve Forbes criticized tlrn Republican tax cut, Washington's political culture and administration's commitment to the military, sounding themes Wednesday that impressed voters who norrntlrnless wondered whether he could win the GOP presidential nomination in 2000. 
The millionaire publisher also stressed his support for allowin$ prayer in school and posting the Tnn Commandments in classrooms. 
The $792 billion, 10-year plan to cut taxes does not go far enough in offering tax relief and would mnan only "pennies on the dollar" for most working people, Forbes said. 
"Pennies, and Washington is tied up in knots," he said. "Washington is not connected to tlrn people." lie repeated his goal of scrapping the federal tax code and replacing it with a flat tax. 
Forbes also criticized Vice President Gore, the Democratic front-runner, as part or the political structure in the nation's capital where promises am made but often not kept. 
"How many times, for example, have they said they're going to save Social Security'!" Forbes asked during a speech before about 150 people. 
He added that i\mericans should havn tlrn choice of investing their Social Security dollars in private IHAs: "After all, that money belongs to you, not Washington." 
Forbes said the currnnt administration has lrnen derelict in maintaining military readiness. 
"This is not just a military issue. It's a moral isstw," Forbes said. "Whnn some young person dons that uni­form to serve this country, and then thny are not given the tools they need. the spam parts, that's dereliction of' duty." 
After his speech outlining proposals to ovnrhaul health care. Social Sncurity and the military, Forbes discussed school prayer and the Ten Commandments. 
"It is easier, in many instances, to bring a copy of Hitler's 'Mein Kamp!" into a school than it is to bring in a Bible," Forbes said. 
That mirrored what Forbes said in .lu1rn aftnr thn House voted in favor 111' permitting tlrn display or the Ten Commandments in hopes of' ending some school violence. Democrats such as Gore and f'ormer Sen. Bill Bradley of New Jnrsny, also a presidential aspi­rant, have questioned the constitutionality of' the amendment and its effectiveness. 
Marie Harrington, 46, said she had not decided whether Forbes would get her vote in the state's Feb. 15 Republican caucus. 
She also was uncertain whether he could win the nomination. despite having a platform she liked. 
"It's going to be a tough battle for Forbns again," she said. "I don't know if its because of' the way he comes across or not. It's a shame." 
Forbes impressed .Jack Lucia. 62. a rntired school teacher. He liked the candidate's position on abor­tion. 

page 10 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, September 9, 1999 
RUSSIA 


Yeltsin denies cash scandal 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
Russian President Boris Yeltsin called President Clinton on Wednesday and denied he or his family are involved in a broadening international money­laundering scandal, a White House offi­cial said. 
"They talked about money-launder­ing, corruption." during a one hour phone conversation, White House national security adviser Sandy Berger said. Clinton asked about reports of . Yeltsin's personal involvement, and Yeltsin denied the allegations, Berger told reporters. 
"The president said it's very impor­tant to deal with these [allegations] on the merits and cooperate," Berger said. 
Yeltsin said the Russian government will cooperate with international inves­tigations of various alleged financial scandals involving Russian banking and business, Berger said. Russian law enforcement authorities will come to the United States next week to meet with the FBI and other U.S. law enforcement officials, Berger said. 
Russia's chief prosecutor, suspended by Yeltsin in March, said in an inter­view this week that Yeltsin and his daughters should be questioned about whether they received kickbacks from a Swiss construction firm. 
In another high-profile case, U.S. authorities are trying to determine whether Hussian organized crime groups funneled up to $10 billion ille­gally through accounts of Bank of New York. 
I I I 

. 
2 YEAR ROTATIONAL PROGRAM 

. 
TRAINING & DEVELOPMENT 

. 
DOMESTIC & INTERNATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES 


FINANCE, ACCOUNTING & MANAGEMENT MAJORS LOOK FOR US AT THE BUSINESS CAREER FORUM TODAY AND TOMORROW!!! 
VISIT OUR WEBSITE@ WWW.ALLEGIANCE.NET 
Business a.nd Career Forum September 9 -10 
Corporate Presentation September 13 
Industry Day 
September 21 
Interview Dates October 13 (Resumes must be dropped to career center by Septem.ber 23.) 
g to do about it? 

amsmc.com 

An Equal Opportunity Employi,r 
Thursday, September 9, 1999 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Public high school ROTC opens 
Former Sen. Danforth 
Cl!lCACO 

As the Stars and Stripes uro raisml lo tlw sound of drums and llllglos, doz1i11s of' tPnn­agnrs in uniform struggle to li1rn up under tho frowning gazn of' a rntirml Army major. 
This i!; not ,Lil clitn privatn military school. It's an inncr­city public high schooL 
Tlw Chicago Military Acadmny op1rned last month as the first public school in ll11• nation rnn hy tlrn Army's ,Junior H1isnrvn OITicPr Training Corps. 
Morn than I :iO stud<'nls altnnd military-style class1is in a historic South Side armory wlwrn bla1·k rncruits onc1• drilled bd'orn marching ol'f' to tlw battldielus of Worlu War L But llw school's aim is to semi students to collego. not to war. 
Hw(l 
not training 
soldiPrs," "Jnjcmr years. they will 
ing a career said r1itil'lid be head and shoulders of the mili­Brig. c;ennrnl 
ouer regular high school tarv. 
Frank Bacon. 
"i was kind 
the school's graduates ... 
of a bad 
commandant. 
gi~l." s~.e
"W11 arc 
Col. Charles Fleming said. I 
using mili­
never did my
principal

tary nwtlwd­chores and I 
ology lo ndu­
hung out on 
catll these studnnls." 
the streets with the wrong
Paul Vallas. chid cxncutive 
crowd. I think this will help
of' the Chicago's public 
me do better." 
schools, said students who The students, who attend 
participalt~ in JHOTC perl'orm classes in JHOTC uniform, cat a hall'-gradP to a full gradn 
breakfast together when they
hig!rnr academically. 
arrive. Holl call follows 20 
"Tlrn kids are molivatcd," 
minutes later in the drill hall. 
Vallas said. "It helps them lo The raising of the r,olors takes dl'vf'lop sPlf-confidf'nce. self-
place outside the main 
1\Sletim and comradeship. It 
ontrance. 

hnlps lo d1welop character." 
On a recent morning, the · 
Tlw school's staff members band played a ragged "To the chosf' studnnts they believed 
Colors" during the nag-rais­
wouldn't chaf'e under a mili­tary rngimcn. Both the stu­dents and their parents were inl0,rvi0Wt!d, the parents to cletnrmine if they woulrl sup­port the school by volunteer­ing tlwir time. 
The school's principal, Col. Charlns Fleming of' the Illinois National Guard. calls his stu­r!(mts average\ kids, their only distinction being they are 4 ualified to attend high school. A f'e\-v girted students have nnrollcd. too. 
"In four years. they will be !mad and should0,rs over your riigular high school graduate because of their leadership skills," he said. · Huby Cruz. 14, rises at the crack oJ' dawn lo gnt lo school by 7 a.m. She said slrn decid­Pd to attend because she wants a college scholarship and nnnds discipline, though she's more interested in 
bncoming a 
pediatrician 
than in mak­
ing. 

to head Waco inquiry 
"Evervone in the class will be in the band," Bacon said. "i\s a marching academy, we need a band. Next year, the incoming class also will be rnquircd to learn to play an instrument. It is a skill tlrny can use later in life." 
The students Lake English, math, science and other col­lege preparatory courses. They also study military histo­ry, military scitmce and physi­cal education. 
In the hallways, there's none of the usual high school noise or horseplay. Students movequictly, greeting Bacon and FIPrning respectfully in shy voices, but without salutes or exclamations of "Sir1" 
Discipline is expected. Tardiness is not tolerated. 
"We only had one late today," Bacon said. pointing over his shoulder at a girl. "She's over there right now gntling ... chewed out." 
There won't be a summer break for tlrnse students, who must take classes and partic­ipate in a two-week military camp. 
The school is situated in the 8th Regiment Armory. once home to the nation's first black-commanded infantry unit. Bacon, backed by city officials, led the effort to ren­ovate the 1914 armory at a cost of $24 million. A $10 mil­lion annex to be completed next year will allow the school to grow to 540 students. 
Charles Moskos. a Northwestern University soci­ology professor who studies the military, noted that pri­vate military schools are booming, so it makes sense for a public school to offer the same options. 

Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 

Former Hepublican Sen. John Danforth agret>d Wednesday to oversee an independent review of the 1993 gov­ernment standoff with the Branch Davidians, govern­ment offi­cials said. 
Attorney General .J a n e t Reno was to announco the appointment Thursday. 
Reno's decision on Danforth came as tlrn top flepublican in the Senate said he now has doubts about who started the lire that ended the fatal siege in Waco, Texas, and believes it is time for Reno to step down. 
Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott said new revela­tions that the government withheld evidence about its use of force in the raid add lo a "pattern" of refusing to cooperate with congressional requests. 
"There are doubts because questions have been raisr.d," Lott told reporters. Those new question and what Lott called a history of Reno not cooper­ating with Congress " ... leads me to conclude that the attor­ney general should resign." 
His comments fueled a new GOP campaign against Reno that began two weeks ago with the belated revelation that the FBI fired incendiary tear gas grenades at the Davidian compound on the 

day a fire killed 80 members of the sect. The government continues to maintain the fire was started by sect members, not federal age:its. 
Reno. nonetheless, moved forward with her plans to launch an independent inquiry headed by Danforth, who left the Senate in 1995 and is respected by members of both parties for his stub­born independence and repu­tation for integrity. 
Reno selected Danforth and he accepted the offer during several days of negotiations. according to government olli­cials, wh() spoke only on con­dition of anonymity. 
A senior Justice Department ()fficial said Heno would intro­duce Danforth al her w1ieklv news conference Thursday. Danforth spent about five hours at th1\ Justice Department on Wednesday, but was unavailuble to r<'porters. 
Danforth, 63, is an Episopal priest with solid llepublican credentials -he successfully shepherded tho troublod nom­ination of Supremo Court .lusticn Clarence Thomas through tlrn Sm1atc. Ile also has a background in law enforeernent. Bnfore entering the Sm1ate. he served as attor­ney general in Missciuri for eight years. 
As Hepuhlicans continued their assault, tho attorney general received a strong endorsem1rnt from Senato Democratic Leader Tom Daschle. lie said Heno "deserves commendation rather than criticism," and that "under no circum­stances" should she resign. 
Danforth's independent probe could clash with multi­ple hearings that llepublicans on Capitol Hill were proparing even before Congress returned Wednesday from its August recess. 
Investigators for a Senate subcommittee chaired by Sen. Charles Grasslcy. ll-lowa, are trying to interview a retired CIA ollicial, Gene Cullen, who claims he has information that members of the elite Delta Force military team were actively involved in the Waco siege. 
Government officials have acknowledged members of the military were at Waco in an advisory capacity but have maintained that they never participated in the operation. 
House Government Heform and Oversight Committee Chairman Dan Burton, H-lnd .. has issued subpoenas in his ()Wn re-examination of the tragedy. Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Orrin Hatch, H-Utah, also plans hearings. 
Onfl lawmaker, howevflr, has deferred to Danforth. 
!louse .Judiciary Committee Chairman Henry Hyde said Wednesday he would withhold his planned legislation to establish a live-member com­mission to first sec if Danforth gets the full cooperation of thn Justice Department. 

Celebrate the fall season with a change in dining. 
~~ 


VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

page 12 BSERVER Thursday, September 9, 1999 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. IN /46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 4655G 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Michelle Krupa 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
M. Shannon Ryan  David Rogero  
AssT. MANAGINl; EDITOR  
Laura Pcrelle  

NEWS EDITOR; Tim Logan 
V!EWl'OINT EDITOR: Colleen Gaugnen 

SPORTS EDITOR: Brian Kessler SCENE EDITOR; Michael Vanegas SI\INT M,un's EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie 
PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Dalurn 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Bryan Lmz 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Bret Huelar 
SYSTEMS ADMINIS1RATOR: Mich.ad Revers WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kush.to 
CONTROLLER: Timmhy Lane 
GIW'HICS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 

CoNTACr Us 
OFPICE MANAGER/GENERAL lNF0..............631-7471 FAX............................................................631·6927 
ADVERTISING...................................63 l ·6900/ 8840 
observer(iildarwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CmEF......................................631-4542 MANAGING ErnmR/Assr. ME.. .................. 631-4541 
BUSINESS OFFICE.......................................631-53 [3 NEWS................... ······································631-S323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.. ·················· ..................631 ·5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS...... . .................................G3 l-4543 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SA.INT MARY'S.................. ·•··•······ ...............631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu Pli0T0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINlSTRATORS .........:.......631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire at http://observer.ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from rhe Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for

weather for up-to-the 
minute forecasrs 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features fur spe• 
and rates of prim ads 
cial campus coverage 

archives to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
to meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the srudenrs ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial conrenr is not governed by policies of the administracion ofeither insrirution. Acting as pub­lisher ofTh.e Observer, the administration ofthe University of Notre Dame du Lac prohibits th.e adver­tisement ofalcohol and The Observer's acceptance of advertisements from specified types ofgroups. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Ediror in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present rhe views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expre,sion ofail opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Questians rtgarding Observer palicieJ should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefMi,heile Kn,pa. 

A Debt of Solidarity for the Year 2000 
A few weeks ago, the unthinkable happened. A country missed a Brady bond payment. 
During the 1970s, bankers and investors fell in love with Latin America, and they lent -maybe even 
pushed -huge Gabriel amounts of money. 
Martinez

Military dictator­ships, which back 
Like Arrows 

then ruled most of 
in the Hands

Latin America, fell 
ofa Warrior

in love with the money and asked for as much debt as they could get. Ordinary people became euphoric and borrowed in dollars with no thought for tomorrow. Things were going generally well for their economies; debt levels rose steadily. At the end of the 1970s, democratic winds blew -but at the same time the economies started to turn sour. Many factors contributed. 
The most important one, in my view, is that U.S. interest rates soared. The chairman of the Federal Reserve Board at that time decided that it would be a great idea to raise interest rates in order to bring inflation down. But he forgot -and many others in the U.S. forgot -that it is not moral to make national decisions without considering the international consequences. Rising interest rates made Latin American debt burdens impossibly large. 
Third-world governments found that, unless they wanted to be international lepers, they had to dedicate funds to debt service that should have gone to education and roads and health. Some larger countries got assistance, but most countries were just assisted over the cliff. Creditors banded together and forced governments to pay the private debts of their citizens -something capitalist-minded people had sworn would never happen. Stealing from someplace that I cannot remember, someone said: "We international bankers believe in the mrtrket when things are going well, but we believe in the state when things are going badly." 
So the burden of paying the debt was to fall on the poor. To pay the debt and stay in the good graces of the interna­tional powers, governments cut back spending on everything else, especially social programs. Employment plum­meted while inflation skyrocketed. The massive transfer of wealth abroad impoverished the economies, destabi­lized the political systems, weakened social order and social unity and led to what has been called the Lost Decade of the 1980s. 
It is an old adage in banking that it is better to get 100 percent of something than zero percent of everything. If a borrower cannot pay his debts, it is bet­ter to just erase some of it from the books to allow the borrower to get into better shape and pay at least some­thing. International creditors appeared to remember this when countries had "proved their willingness to undertake structural reforms," which means that they had to accept the free market ide­ology of the creditors. The Brady bonds were born. 
The Brady plan was put together by someone named Brady, and it consisted of erasing some of the debt but enforc­ing the payment of the rest. Debt was "repackaged" into little· bonds that could be sold in the markets. Creditors got their money by selling the bonds, while countries had to pay less -but to a large number of small bondhold­ers. It became harder to avoid paying the debt. 
Things went pretty well for a while. The economies underwent the needed reforms, stabilized their economies, and started going up. Brady bonds became "sacrosanct," in that countries never missed a payment, never default­ed, never even talked about defaulting on their Brady bonds. 
In the last few years, things changed. Mighty South East Asia tumhlerl in 1997. Prices of oil plummeted, spelling misery for its producers. A couple of recessions here, a couple dozen shocks there, and Ecuador was forced to delay a payment last Aug. 28. This has brought trouble for Argentina, a much larger country but also deep in a long recession. Lenders could soon start refusing to l(md to the whole region. If Brady bonds are staihed, how safo can it be to lend? 
What to say about all this'! On the one hand, the money is the lenders'. They got it from a multitude of small deposi­tors who put their tn-!St in the banks, who then did business with Latin American countries -solidarity must imply a fair rnspect for tlrn rights of the lender. On the other hand, there is a point when paying the debt is immoral. It is immoral because, although govern­ments represent the nation, paying it entails starvation an disease not to the small bureaucratic or political elite who contracted it -but to the disenfran­chised poor. 
Wealth -of bankers, of rich coun­tries' taxpayers -implies responsibili­ty and a debt of solidarity because pos­sessions ultimately belong to all of humanity. God gave people an intrinsic and unalienable dignity, which is why contracts are people's tools, not their masters. Whoever understands this should support the initiative to forgive large portions of poor countries' debt by the Jubilee of 2000. 
Gabriel Xavier Martinez is a gradu­ate student in economics. lie apologizes to all economic historians for all of the gross inaccuracies in this article. But alas! /Je is an economist and simplifies heroically for the sake of exposition. 
The lliews expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
DILBERT  SCOTT ADAMS  
I FOUND 501"\E. NUMBERS TI-IAT SUPPORT YOUR 5TR.ti..TEGlC  I HJl...0 TO TAKE. Tl-IE SQUARE ROOT OF A NEG,6-.TIVE NUMBER TO DO IT.  THE TIMELINE I ON  

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"You hear about constitutional rights, free speech ·and the free press. Every time I hear these words I say to myself, 'Thal man is a Red. that man is a Communist!' You never hear a real American talk like that." 
Frank Hague Mayor, Jersey City, NJ, 1938 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

Thursday, Septemnber 9, 1999 BSERVER page 13 
American taxpayers shouldn't have to support 'School of Assassins' 
Last 11ighl, Fat!wr Hoy Bourgeois spokn in Lillln Tlwater in Moreau about the School ol' t!w AmPricas. But yester­day morning, I got a prnvirw or his talk so for thos(i of you who didn't get to hear it lasl night. this is for you. Nakasha 
Fatlwr Bnurgnois Ahmad raisns impnnanL points about U.S. 
So, What's

foreign policy and 
My Point?

how wn ,ibusn our pow('r in tlw world wlrnn wn have insLi­tulions like Urn School or the Americas. 
1:irst, l<'l 111n (•xplain what tho School of /\morkas is. 1.ocalnd in Fort Bmrning, c;a., this school trains Lalin American soldiers lo torlurn. kill and k11ep the sta­lus quo in countries likn Cuatnnwla and 
El Salvador. ThosP "mon with guns" lwlp to maintain lhe status quo and krnip our PCOtl()mic internsts from going clown tlw tubPs. 
Fatlwr Bourgeois is a man who has cll'Clicatnd tlw past nine years research­ing thP School of' Llw Americas with his group, SO;\ Watch. The group rns11arch­ns into the actions of this school and trins to rais,, awarcriess and organize vigils to C'lose down the school. 
The School of ;\nrnricas is well-known in South Anwrica and is called the "La Escuda d1~ Assassinns" or "The School of Assassins." What does it do? It brings soldiers from South America and teach­es Hwm how to torturn, how to kill, how to maim. The pretnxt for this school is that il "prolHcts U.S. economic inter­ests." Al'tt!r all, we have to protect those grand multinationals from those pesky ptmsants, do we not? ln !'act, the school's manuals litnrally describn how Lo torturn ptiople who may be "subver­sive," and how to inliltrate labor unions and universities. These soldiers are the orms with the real power in Latin America. They am responsible for the sulforing and bloodshed in these coun­trins. And these schools. run by the CIA and the Pentagon, arc completely fund­ed through taxpayers' money. Mornover, according lo Father Bourgo()is. in the peak of the military "aid" to tlrn soldiers. we wern giving thnm 01w million dollars a day to sup­port the bloodshed in El Salvador and 
other countries. 
Thus, SOA Watch has br,en leading a 
nine-ynar l'ffort to close funding of the 
School of Americas. This July, the 
llouse passed a bill that would cut fund­
ing for tlrn school, and the bill will be in 
the Senate this month. It may turn out 
that Father Bourgeois and his group 
will win this battle. 
llowever, as Father Bourgeois says 
himself, this is "bigger than the ,School 
of tlrn Americas... It's about how we 
relate to the Third World." We have a 
foreign policy "based on grned and self­
ishnoss" whon we allow suffering to go 
on in the name of protecting our eco­
nomic interests. 
The suffering of others should be important to us, even if it doesn't touch us. Too often, we only care about people when they are our "own." Thus, we bomb Iraq and Sudan, and train sol­diors to kill others in Latin America. The School of the Americas isn't an iso­lat11d blot in the history of American for­eign policy. Our entirn foreign policy is a scri!ls of blots because we don't care about tlw suffering of other people or the justice of our actions. Economic internsts and military might and Amorican hegemony should never take prnrndence over the suffering and oppression of other people no matter what race. nationality or class they are. The U.S. supposedly lives by the princi­ples ol' freedom. democracy equality, and "justice for all." When we publicly fund institutions like the School of the Americas. we are not funding justice. We are funding oppression and suffer­ing. 
As Bourgeois said, "This is about real people. This is about sisters and broth­ers. This is about suffering. This is about death. This is about justice." 
Nakasha Ahmad is a senior philoso­phy. English and political science major at Saint Mary's. You can e-mail her at ahma3495@jade.saintmarys.edu. lier column appears every other Thursday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

I am writing this letter in response to Nathan Shay. I have to be honest, I'm not usually the type of person that reads The Observer's aggravating Viewpoint section or writes letters to the editor, but in this particular case, I feel like I have to respond. 
This may sound harsh, but I feel embarrassed for anyone as closed­minded as Nathan Shay. Sure, many students came to Notre Dame because it reflected their personal religious beliefs. I am also one of them. But I think, Nathan, you should take the time to figure out just what those beliefs are. You are claiming to uphold the morals ofCatholic teach­ing. You tell the author of a previous letter to the editor to "think about re­enrolling in Theology 101." In response, I think that maybe you should consider rereading your Catechism. Homosexual tendencies in and of themselves are not immoral. The Catechism teaches a doctrine of tolerance with respect to this issue. If you came to Notre Dame to hide from reality, or find an acceptable forum for discrimination, then I hope that you're at the wrong school. 
"The number of' men and wonrnn who have deep-seated homosoxual tendencies is not negligible. This incli­nation. which is objectivnly disor­dered, constitutes for most of them a trial. They must be accepted with respect, compassion. and sensitivity. 
"Every sign of' unjust discrimination in their regard should be avoided. These persons are called to fulfill God's will in their lives and, if they arc Christians, to unite to the sacrifice of the Lord's Cross the difficulties they may encounter from their condition," (Catechism of the Catholic Church, 2358). 
The issue at hand is the contradic­tion between the Notre Dame family and the hostile environment created by ignorance and hatred, not the University's decision to ban ads. Shame on us for rationalizing intoler­ance. 
Sarah Dempsey 
Senior Pangborn Hall September 8, 1999 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
'Excessive celebration' penalty called racist, ridiculous 
ls iLjusl me, or does the "excessive celebration" rule in coll1ige football just smack or racism'? When this rule was first implemented, I recall that all the examples given regarding what constitutes "excessive celebration" includ­tid African-American players. And, it remains a call imposed mainly on black athletes and not their white counterparts. 
For instanrn, it is acceptable for a whitn player to point at tlw camera (ala Bobby Brown) and "strike a pose" with only omi linger in tlw air indicating a thought like "we're number one." Likewise, it is OK for plac!l kickers (who arc gmwrally non-black) to prance around with their hand high in the air when the make a game winning extra-point or finlcl goal. But let a black alhlele make a potPntially gamn-win11ing catch (possibly tho catch of his lil'e) against tlwir biggest rival (mm of the biggtist rivalries known to college footbaJI) after his team just pulled off the most amazing fourth and inches play in team history and have the hom1, team officials observe him "strike a pose" in the camera for a few seconds and you have "excessive cele­bration." l'hmse! 
Mary Penrose 
First-Year Law Student September 6, 1999 

We road in this morning's sports pages that Notre name's Bobby Brown was whistled for excessive celebration in the final minutes of last Saturday's game with Michigan for "imi­tating a moose." 
We at Mooseworld (www.mooscworld.com) take this very seriously. While we hold no plare for taunting, we hardly think imitating one of nature's most magnificent and gentle creatures is bad form and certainly doesn't deserve a 15-yard penalty. 
If excessive celebration ponallies must be given, let's restrict them to imitating, say, politicians or talk show hosts. But give moose a break. 
Next time your team scores, consid<lr imitat­ing a moose. It will re11ect well on you, on moose. and, besides, how can the refertrns penalize 100,000 civilized fans·t 
Go moosn! 
Randall Schultz Mooseworld s~ptcrnber 8, 1999 


cene E 
O
THE page 14 BSERVER Thursday, September 9, 1999 
MOVIE REVIEW 
'Speed' clone remains frigid 
By BILL FUSZ Scene Movie Criric 
Imagine "Speed" and "The Hock" thrown together and utterly stripped of all originality and imagination. Then take a:way the actor's performances­Then put two first-time scriptwriters. Drew Gitlin and Mike Cheda, and a first-time 
agent is taking place. 
In charge of the exper-Paymer iment are Dr. Richard Long. played by David l'aymer ("Payback" and "The American President") and US\1C Captain Andrew Brynner, played by Peter Firth ("Mighty Joe Young" and "Amistad"). The exper­iment goes tragically wrong though. when the defoliant. codename Elvis, turns out to be dramatically more potent and lethal than ever imagined. 
In a grisly death sequence, all 18 of Captain Brynner's men are killed out­side the base. Brynner is subsequently sent to prison for 12 years at the court martial hearing. but mysteriously Dr. Long is completely cleared, even though he was the staunchest support­er of the experiment. 
Twelve years of brig time warp and harden Brynner though, and upon his release he recruits a rogue terrorist group and raids the military base where Long now works frantically on a way to neutralize the Elvis agent. Brynner's hope is to steal Elvis and then sell the deadly agent on the international black market. 
Though fatally wounded by Brynner and pals, Long manages to slip away with Elvis and stumble into the short­order diner where his fishing buddy Tim Mason (Skeet Ulrich of "Scream" and "As Good As ll Gets") works. With his dying breath, Long explains that Mason must find a way to get Elvis to the rnilitarv base 90 miles away ... and he must do it while keeping the Elvis from ever reaching 50 drgrfrns, else 
millions will die. 
To his good fortune chef and fishing buddy instead of call the police, the FBI, the Army or National Guard when he needs to pro­tect Elvis? Perhaps one may chalk that off to the hysteria of near-death. but Arlo and Mason have plenty of opportu­nities when they are not being chased that they could pull off of the road and call the authorities. 


Overall, as action movies go, "Chill Factor" is decently entertaining. Ulrich and Gooding are good actors on their own, and they do seem to play off each other moderately well. Occasionally, Gooding seems to be trying too hard however, as if he could save the project on his own merits, if he only worked hard enough at it. 
Peter Firth is a well respected British actor wilb a long list of accolades. David Paymer is a l'antaslic comedic character actor, one of the many in Hollywood whose faces and perfor­mances one would easily recognize, if' not his name. But placed into the hands of the amateurs who appear to be run­ning this movie. none are able to per­form to their potential. 
There's a scene where a female ter­rorist is about to kill Mason and says, 'Tm a professional; this won't hurt a bit." Mason. before beating her uncon­scious, replies, 'Tm an amateur; this is going to hurt like a son of ab@#$*." 
After "Chill Factor," everyone can vouch for that. 
dirertor, Hugh "Chill Factor" and the misfortune of Johnson, in the hot Cuba Gooding Jr.'s seat tu make a movie. career as a real 
Welcome to "Chill actor, Gooding is Factor." there to play the The title reeks of unfortunate ice
out offive shamrocks 
bad film, but unfortu­cream truck driver. nately. its only the Ario, about to be beginning. The story conscripted into
Director: Hugh Johnson
b<·gins on a Pacific action. island where a test of Starring: Cuba Gooding Jr., The story rlevolves a top-secret defoliant Skeet Ulrich, Peter Firth and David and dissolves happily 
from there. as Ulrich 
and Gooding drive 

through the \1ontana coumryside pursued first by the terror­ists and then later by the law, because Ario has stolen his company's ice cream truck. 
There are explosions. cars that blow up and a whole range of special effects. But the dialogue is a shoddy patchwork of cliches that in no way utilizes the actors' abilities lo play off each other. Ignoring any potential for serious thrills. "Chill Factor"'s rookie scriptwriters instead opt for the umpteenth version of the rriismatched buddy action-flick, yet another knock­off of the now-venerable "Lethal Weapon" series. 
The other factor that really derails the film is the extreme idiocy of all involved parties. The movie just throws too many mind-bogglingly dumb plot points at the audience. 
In the court martial scene for instance, why does Brynner, who vehe­mently opposed the experiment, get 12 years, while Dr. Long, who insisted on performing the experiment without essential controls, get off scot free? 
Why does Long go to the local diner 
VIDEO PICK OF THE WEEK 
By CHRISTINE KRALY 
Scene Movie Criric 
One movie should have sunk "Titanic" in the 1997 Oscar race. That movie is "L.A. Confidential." 
"L. A Confidential" tells a tale of deceit and danger, lust and love. fame and misfortune. It is nostalgic of the glamour of the early days of l lollywood. twisted around a tale of police cor­ruption and tabloid
"L.A. 

journalism. 
"Confidential" is
Confidential" the ultimate 
moviegoer's 
movie: a s0ductive
Director: Curlis Hanson 
love storyStarring: Kevin Spacey, Russel wrapped around 
an action-packed
Crowe, Kim Basinger, Guy Pearce and 
mystery, neatly
Danny DeVito 
packaged with a 
few intermittent laughs. It's lil!Nl with so many twists and turns, the audience is on a continuous joyride through the exciting Los Angeles of the Ilollywood era. 
Kevin Spacey heads np an all-star cast -inducting Russell Crowe, Kim Basinger. Guy Pearce and Danny DeVito -as Jack Vincennes, a smooth cop '<\ith a weak­ness for the limelight. 
Along with Vincennes, Bud White (Crowe), and Ed Exley (Pearce) investigate the inner-workings uf' their own Los Angeles Police Deparlment. As the movie pro­gresses, the eager men find lies and deception lurking around every corner. 
A violent multiple-murder jumpstarts the film, and (cue hero music) those fearless law enforcement boys get right on it. Throughout the investigation the men discover cover-ups and frauds involving the highest levels of the 
L.A.P.D.. all while they're bribing tabloid papers, falling in love and brown-nosing to the department's chief of police. 
And what about the Veronica Lake-lookalike-hooker. played by Basinger. who steals White's heart? All these elements are very important in understanding the movie's tangled web of treachery and lust. Written by Brian Helgeland and Curtis Hanson and 

directed by Hanson, "Confidential" has the workings of a great police melodrama. When policemen are good. they're handsome and do their jobs well. When they're bad, they're just bad. The characters are laid out in such a "the good, the bad, and the ugly" manner, that the audience has no decisions to make -they know who to like and who not to like. 
This is totally refreshing since the viewer can then con­centrate on the plot and yes, even the costumes. of the film. Once an understanding of the characters and their motives is attained, it's much easier to just watch the 
movie and enjoy it. 
\t\lhat's great about "Confidential" is that it's cool. The characters and scenery are so well adapted to the story­line. and the plot moves smoothly and without preten­sion. The cops walk, talk and ask questions with such a suave demeanor, one wouldn't know whether to answer their questions or ask for their autograph. Political ofli­cials are dirty and corrupt. and you can·t wait !'or tlrn cunning detectives to take them down. 
The film's sleazy tabloid, "Hush-Hush," is reminiscent of the National Inquirer or Star. and every moviegoer can relate to the movie's sensationalism. (Come on, who hasn't flipped through those things while waiting at the check-out counter?) 
"L. A. Confidential" is evPn bettor because it makes the viewer feel smart. The plot is so interwoven and interesting. it might take a while to understand the story and feel intelligent. But when it happens, the viewer reaches a point where it sits back, opnns iL<; mouth and eyes in wonder and exclaims. "Ah! Now I gel it!" 
But one must see the movie to find out how that hap­pens. Because as the movie's tabloid paper announces. that information is "Off the record, on the q.t. and very hush-hush." 

c~ne E 
THE Thursday, September 9, 1999 OBSERVER page 15 
MOVIE REVIEW 
There's something (bad) about 'Providence' 
01' course, their
By MATT NANIA 
infaluation grows
Sc~n• Movi~ Cri1ic 
into a Ilallrriark card or counlry
"Oulsidn l'rovide11c1•" is the 1wwest 
imagHs. They toss film from l.lw minds nf thn l'nler and pebbles inln creeks, Bohhy J.'arrnlly, who brought the comic she slrokos his hair hrillianc:1• of "lh1mh and Dumb11r" and as he lights a ciga­"Thnrn's Sonwthing About Mary" to lhe rette and the 
moon hig scrnnn. As such. some of thn 111m 's rises ·over their love humor st,\ITIS from vomit, masturbation, as they starn at a using a noodln as nasal floss-and !'ea­gorgeous country turm; disahlnd p1mph1 amJ otlwr political­
lake. ly incorrt•ct sources of' romndy. "l'rovidcncc." however. is tlwir first foray outsidn pur1\ "Outside c11mPcly Crantml, the film isn't din•rt,;cl by tlw Fam•!lys. but it 
Providence" 
is adapt.I'(! by tlwm and dinic­tor Mirha<'I Cornintn from a 1111v1d tlml l'Hlnr l•arrnlly wrote Ion!-{ hPl'on• his hn•akout SU('• Ct\SS in Hollywood. Although 
out offive shamrocks 
tlw film is Sllppo~w<i l!I bn a romi11g-ol'-agn story snt in the '70s, it l't•f'ls as il' two or thrrn~ dil'f'1•r., 11 t moviPs wPrP shot Director: Michael Corrente 
sim11lta111•ously in llw sanw Starring: Shawn Hatosy, Alec l1walio11. 
Baldwin, Amy Smart and George 
1-'rnm rJi,, 01H•11iul-( <T<·<lits, as !'I'll' Townsh1•1Hl's "Won't (;c1l Wendt h1ol1·d Again" is playPd. t!H· at1diP1w1• knows it is in l'or a taslP ol' '70s Thn story plodssP11timP111, Hhod,• Island styli'. /\ccording 
along l'rom them to tlw 11rnviP. that 1111•a11s lots of drugs. issuDs are
and Tim "l>1111ph" l>unphy /Shawn llatosyl brought to light but is a hlUt'•('ollar l1•Pnag<•r and a slorwr. 
without any weightIll' a11d liis friP1Hls sit around on tlH' or meaning. The rooftops of l'awturkl't. ltl.. drinking 
script aimlesslybPl'r and ingPsting Pwry drug tlrny can 
movHs back and gPl Ll1Pir hands 011. OnP night, Tim and 
forth betwenn Tim's hb b11ddi1•s smuggl1· somP marijtiana 
problnms at school past his llad (/\!tic· Baldwin) and his 
and his indifferent pokt'l'·playing. bigot bucldit\S (induding 
relationship with his (;Por!-{P WPnclt as Joey). Tlwn. stmwd out 
Dad. Somn scenes of' tlwir minds llwy crash into a polic(~ 
lhmns<llves just seem car. Old man Dunphy dncidtis lw has to Shawn Hatosy stars as Tim "Dunph" Dunphy In the film "Outside Providence," the latest film from
completely irrelevant gl't his son away from Pawtucket, so he (Why have George the Farrelly brothers, the team that brought "There's Something About Mary" to the screen. pulls sonrn strings and gets Tim into an 
Wendt's character 1ixclusivn prep school. Now, Dunph is 
reveal his homosex-film's failure to create any emotional !ind his own vision for his future endeav­
Timothy Dunphy, a senior at upper­uality?). 
. resonance. Coming off last year's disas­ors, for it seems "'Outside Providence" 
crusty Cornwall school, where all tho 
Director Michael Corrente's trous teen horror flick "The Faculty," suffers from a bad case of deja vu. mandatory horrors from every prep ("American Buffalo") biggest problem, !-latosy does a satisfactory job portraying Whether it's the hackneyed montage of
school movin 1wer made are visited upon 
however. is the film's lack of a balanced a Tim as dazed and confused as the film romantic moments between Tim and him in prmlictabln ordnr. tone. With all the llutT in the beginning, needs. But what's missing is his charm. Jane that plays during a low period in At first, "Outsidn Providence" attempts 
the w11ight of the drama nearly cracks When he falls in love or confronts his their relationship, or Tim's miraculous lo makn a statrnnnnt about social stratili­
the spine of the picture in its second father, Hatosy falls far short of eliciting transformation into a good student,cation -after all. Timothy is now the half. Where once all the film dealt with any kind of empathy from the audience. numerous scenes are routine copies of poornst and dumbest kid in an upwardly 
were drug jokes and darts in people's Moreover, Alec Baldwin turns out to be past films. Even the music soundtrack,mohilti, rich kids' school. 
faces, suddenly it turns 180 degrees and the least convincing blue-collar, poker­which includes songs by the Eagles and But the writers can't avoid tlrn obliga­
becomes an unspirited drama about playing whisky-swiller to hit the screen Lynyrd Skynyrd, is typical of just about 

tory and lirnd boy-mnets-girl story !inn. fatherly neglect. The tone is way too in many years. He tries hard to be a every '70s film.Tim rrnrnts the most beautiful girl on 
erratic and severly dampens the film's smart-alecky father but just comes ofT as Part prep-school drama and part 
campus (and, apparnntly. the only girl 
linal impact. irritating. "Dazed and Confused," "Outside on campus). Jann Wnstnn (Amy Smart). 
The acting also contributes to the Director Michael Corrente needs to Providence" just doesn't hold together. 
Box OFFICE 
~ 

"The Sixth Sense" set 
or'J~l1ekend 
a Labor Day box 
office record, taking Movie Title Weekend Sales Total Sales in $29.3 million. The Bruce Willis film con­
1. The Sixth Sense $ 29. 3 million $ 176.2 million
tinued its reign as 
2. Runaway Bride $ 8.6 million $ 135.5 million
box office No. 1 for the fifth straight 3. The 13th Warrior $ 8.5 million $ 22.4 million week. Labor Day 
4. Bowfinger $ 7.4 million $ 55.9 million 
weekend usually 
5. The Thomas Crown $ 6.1 million $ 57.7 million
marks the end of the summer movie sea-Affair son. 
6. Chill Factor $ 5.8 million $ 6.7 million 
Pholo courtesy of Buena Vista 
7. 
Mickey Blue Eyes $ 5.5 million $ 27. 3 million 

8. 
The Blair Witch $ 4.1 million $ 133.9 million Project 

9. 
The Astronaut's Wife $ 3. 5 million $ 8.9 million 


I,. 

10. The Muse $ 3.5 million $ 8.6 million 
Source: Associated Prass 


Thursday, September 9, 1999

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL BOXING 
Umpires receive scolding letter· 
Associated Press 
Umpires trying to oust union leader Richie Phillips have received an anonymous letter accusing each of them of being "a cowardly, selfish scab." 
"How could you jump out of the foxho!A in the midst of battle and desert your friends for your own selfishness?" said the letter. which was obtained Wednesday by The Associated Press. "How could you pledge your allegience to the 'intelligence' of Joe Brinkman and John 
.. Hirsch beck?" The handwritten letter, postmarked in Santa Ana, Calif., on Aug. 31, was received by about 25 umpires who oppose the union leader­ship, one member of the anti­Phillips faction said, speaking on the condition he not be identified. Phillips engineered _the failed strategy of mass resig­nations. which cost 22 umpires their jobs Sept. 2. Phillips' supporters in the union say the resignation strategy would have been successful had they all stuck with the plan. "Remember. you aban­doned the ship! You sunk the ship!" said the letter, which contained misspellings and had several words underlined for emphasis. "Now you have 
to look at yourself in the mira ror every day forever and see the reflection of a cowardly, selfish scab! You can change. You can return your allegien­ce to where it belongs!" 
To form a new union or decertify the current union, 30 percent of umpires must file a petition with the National Labor Hfdations Board, which would then hold an election. 
Depending on whether the 22 umpires who were let go last week count as part of the bargaining unit, them are either 71 or 93 major league umpires eligible to vote. Fourteen umpires issued a statement in .July condemning Phillips, and the group now thinks it has the support of about 39. 
The anti-Phillips faction is led by three AL umpires: Hrinkman. Hirschbeck and Oavey Phillips. Working with agent Ron Shapiro, who has been advising them, the group drafted a response io the anonymous letter and was in the process Wednesday of sending it out to all umpires. 
"We will not have trouble looking at ourselves in the mirror," the group said. "As for the cowardly comment, we have and will continue to stand tall when it comes to our decisions. We will not be swayed by the peer pressure, name calling, threats ... " 
Richie Phillips announced July 14 that more than 50 umpires were resigning en rnasse, effective Sept. 2, with umpires saying they wanted to prod baseball into an early start of negotiations for a labor contract to replace the one that expires Oec. '.~ 1. 
The strategy backfired when more than two dozen umps -nearly all in the American League -either refuser! to resign or quickly withdrew their resignations. 
Baseball then hired 25 umps from the minor leagues and accepted the resignations of 22 veterans. Umpires sued to stop baseball from the let­ting the 22 go. and in a deal worked out last week in fod­eral court, the matter will go to arbitration. 
"We tirmlv believe that with a differe.nt negotiation approach for our association, we will ... save some of the jobs that Hichie Phillips lost with his flawed and ridicu­lous strategy," the anti­Phillips group sairl. 
AL president Gene Budig and NL president Len Coleman on July 29 warned umpires against making threats or attempting to intimidate their colleagues. That statement came as Hirschbeck's wife received a letter from Ed Montague's wife, calling her husband a "Judas" for opposing the union leadership. 

Tyson enters ring in match-up with Norris 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK 
Orlin Norris, who despite a winning record and world title has boxed in the shadow of brother Terry, will be Mike Tyson's first opponent since his release from a Maryland jail. 
The 12-round fight Oct. 23 is signed for the MGM Grand in Las Vegas and will be tPIP­vised on Showtime, a source close to Tyson, speaking on condition of anonymity, told The Associated Press on Wedmisday. 
This will be the second bout 
of the year for Tyson, who 
was released May 24 from a 
Maryland jail, where he had 
served 3 1/2 months for 
assaulting two motorists over 
a fender-bender. 

Norris was a second choice 
to fight the 33-year-old former 
undisputed heavyweight 
champion. James "Buster" 
Douglas, who knocked out 
Tyson in a shocking upset. in 
1990, appeared to be the first 
choice but was ruled out for 
not being in good physical 
condition. 

Norris is the 33-year-old 
brother of Terry Norris, who 
was considered one of the 
best fighters in the world 
when he was a super mid­dleweight champion early in the decade. 
Tyson already is training in Las Vegas for what will be his first bout since he knocked out 
Francois Botha with a right to the jaw in the fifth round Jan. 16 in tho MGM Grand. Tyson was trailing on all three cards aftlir four rounds. 
It will be only the second time in his 10 fights since 1990 that Tyson has not fought on pay-per-view. 
Norris. who was a WBA cruiserweight champion in 1993-95, has posted a 50-5 record since turning pro in 1986. He has 27 knockouts hut he is known more as a crafty boxer than a banger. 
Norris figures to give Tyson some rounds, which Tyson needs. Ile doesn't figure to have round by Bert Cooper in 1990 and he was knocked out in the eight round by Nate Miller when he lost the cruis­erweight title in 1995. 
In his last fight, Norris stopped Pele Reid in the first round in England. In three fights before that, he lost a 12-round decision to Henry Akinwande and won 12-round decisions over Adolpho Washington and Nate Miller for the fringe IBA heavyweight title. 

The Observer·accepcs classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. ac che Nocre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.rn. Al! dassifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves che right to edic all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Spri11g Break '00 AVAILABLE SPRING 2000 PURDUE TIX TICKETMART Ca11cun,Mazatlan or Jamaica 4-5 STUDENT RENT AL HOUSE 271-9330 NOTICES From $399 FOR RENT SECURITY SYSTEM,CENTRAL 
TICKETS 
Reps wanted! Sell 15 and travel AIR I need 3 Arizona tix-Please call Gay, Lesbian and Bisexual free! ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE CONDITIONING.LAUNDRY, NEED TO BUY 2 -4 ND vs. ASU Colleen 4-2244 if you can help! students of ND/SMC meeting LOWEST PRICES GUARAN-HOME FOR PARKING LOT ... TIX.OCT. each Thurs. For info call: TEED!!1 ND-SMC EVENTS. DAVE AT 291-2209. STUDENT OR GA's are fine. I need 3 Arizona tix-Please call (877)631 -60UT lnfo:Call 1-800-446-8355 VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. CALL AUTUMN. 284-5024. Colleen 4-2244 if you can help! 
www.sunbreaks.com 243-0658. Looking tor 1 more roommate to 
SKYDIVE!! move into beautiful off-campus WANTED NOTRE DAME FOOT-Need 4 Oklahoma GAs · Matt 4­Try the ULTIMATE RUSH SOCCERZONE THAT PRETTY PLACE, house in Riverside historic district. BALL TICKETS 271-1526 1248 Training students for over 30 Soccer Instructors Bed and Breakfast Inn has space Male or female (currently 2 male, 1 years Part lime positions of 5-10 hrs/wk. available for football/parent wknds. female living there) who wants a SELL & BUY GA FOOTBALL TICK-Needed: GAs to ND Home Games. 1 hour North ot South Bend teaching soccer classes tor 3--8 yr. , 5 Rooms with private baths, $80-clean, sale house and likes good ETS 4 Oklahomas, 1 ASU, 2 uses Call for class times olds. 10am-12pm & 4pm-7pm, Mon. $115, Middlebury, 30 miles from music. N-Sync fans need not reply. 277-6619 Will pay cash. Call Morgan at 634­GREAT LAKES SKYDIVERS thru Thurs. Must have teaching campus. Toll Road Exit #107, 1-280.00/month plus utilities. Call 1064. 1-800-351·6617 experience, basic soccer skill 800-418-9487. 288-4517. WANTED -ND football tix. 
knowledge. Multiple positions avail-AM · 232-2378 PM -288-2726 WILL TRADE 2-4 PURDUE TIX able immediately. Call Dan Payne, 3-6 BDRM HOMES NEAR CAM-FOR 1-2TENN. TIX. LOST & FOUND SoccerZone 243-5777. PUS. NOW OR 2000/2001.ROOMS ND football tix for sale. 84 7-344-1505. 
FOR SALE 

ALSO 272-6306 AM -232-2378 PM -288-2726 
LOST: BAG OF MAKEUP IN Inn @ Saint Mary's seeking van dri-Spring Break Specials!Bahamas I NEED 6 TIX (GA OR JOYCE CENTER ver/hOuse person Good hours & LOADED Party Cruise 5 Days $279! Includes I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME OTHER).FOR OKLAHOMA. THE WEEK OF 8/23. pay.Apply within. 6 Bedrm '00-01 yr. Mealsl Awesome Beaches, GAMES.2726551 CALL LIZ 243-0151 PLEASE CALL 273-0482 I 234-3831 Nightlife!Cancun & Jamaica 7 LAURIE AT 247-0545. Coach's Sports Bar & Grill Nights From $399! Florida BUYING and SELLING ND FOOT-I have 4 tickets to the Purdue 
ls looking far line cooks, will pay for LARGE 1-bdrm apt. $1291springbreaktrave\.com BALL TICKETS. game. If interested call Laura at LOST: My Student Ticket Book· I experance. Please call277-7678, Alf utilities + cable. $450/mo. $250 1-800-678-6386 GREAT PRICES. CALL 289-8048 234-3615. 
need it for obvious reasons or stop by 2046 South Bend Ave. dep. 
II is section30 row56 10 mins. to ND NEW Prepaid Phone Cards1!! +++++++++++++++++++++++++++ Family seeks 2,3, or 4 tickets lo Please call 4-1663 Aflerschool childcare needed. 3:00· 273-3876. $20 ->669 minutes ND FOOTBALL TICKETS ND-Navy game Oct. 30, for reward! 5:00pm weekdays (all or some). Call 243-9361, ask for Rob BUY/SELL/TRADE reasonable priced.412-741-8727 
Must be good with children and 3 bdrm duplex, remodeled. 503 ALL GAMES have reliable car. Eddy, one mile from campus. FOR SALE ALL LOCATIONS WANTED Call Angela 234-2211 (days), 271-Appliances, W/0. 273-8332. N.D. FOOTBALL TIX GREAT PRICES PERSONAL 8224 (eves.) CALL 271-9412 271·9330 
FREE FOOD AND FROSTY AVAILABLE FALL2000 !!NO STUDENT TICKETS!! lnteresested in jazz or classical BEVERAGES WANTED: Student bus help. Apply 5-6 STUDENT RENTAL.2 112 FOR SALE TICKETMART INC. piano lessons? Only $10/week call In return for a place to at UNIVERSITY CLUB 9am-5pm. 6ATH;COMMON AREA ON EACH N.D. FOOTBALL TIX www.ndtickets.com Joel at 288-4517. crash for the ND-USC game. FOOTBALL WEEKENDS MANDA-LEVEL ANO HUGE BONUS COM-CALL 271-9412 +++++++++++++++++++++++++++ 4 '94-95 alums TORY. Competitive wages, meals MON AREA. . .PARKING I hope Timmy had a 
seeking refuge. provided. LOT,LAUNDRY. FOR SALE: New, rust colored GA FOOTBALL TICKETS good night. Call Bill@ 703-469·1008 DON'T DELAY ON THIS ONE. chair, will deliver to campus, $50, ALL HOME GAMES BEST I worked a double shift. Help wanted at 4 Michiana loca-DAVE AT 291-2209. call 1-5766. PRICES 272-7233 ASK FOR AL 
STUDENT OPENINGS lions. Great pay, flex. hrs. Na Stella is cool. 
5-30 hrs./week. Sundays. Apply in person or send AVAILABLE FALL 2000 4-5 STU• FREE TRIAL OF A BRAND NEW NEED 2 MICHIGAN ST. TIX!!I Flex. around classes. resume to: DENT RENTAL HOUSE SECURI-TECHNOLOGY 30 MIN LONG DIS-email: moon.6@nd.edu So is Mary. And Jeanine. Scholarships avail. FRULLATI CAFE/UP MALL TY SYSTEM,CENTRAL AIR CON-TANCE CALLS FREE SEND SASE www.workforstudents.com/lN 6501 N. GRAPE RD. #576 DITIONING. LAUNDRY, PARKING TOG MARKS PO BOX 920528 FOR SALE N.D. FOOTBALL TICK-Let's not forget Allie. 
282-2357 MISHAWAKA. IN 46545 LOT...DAVE AT 291 2209. NEEDHAM,MA. 02492 ETS CALL 271-9412 And certainly not Cynthia 
Thursday, September 9, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
U.S. OPEN 
Williams to take on Davenport in semifinal action 
Assodat~d Press 
NEWYOHK 

Snrnrm Williams out-sluggnd, out-ltustlml and out-grunted two-timn champion Monica Snlns, serving 15 aces Wndnnsday night lo rnach tlw smni!inals ol' llw U.S. Opt>n in only her second year as a pro. 
The 17-vear-ulcl Williams stayed nn ·track to fulfill hnr father's prophesy of a final ag11ins1 lwr big sistnr Vtmus, hut lirst has to get past defending champion Lindsay Davenport. 
fn hPatinl{ tlH\ No. 4 Seles for tlw third linw in Lhrnc matclrns, 4-b, (1-3, (,-2, and gaining a Grand Slam semilinals spot for llui first tinw, the s1~venlh-secd­ed Williams showod u W(\alth of power. SfrnPd and ciPVtirnm,s. 
Shu b!Pmlcd crushing serves and grnundstrokes with deft drops and lobs, racnd down vir­tually-1•vNy drop Sl!lcs smlt hnr way, and matched 111\r stroke 
for stroke from the baseline. Even when it came to grunting, Williams proved louder than Seles. 
Williams ran her ace total for llrn tournament to 42, more than anv other woman, while serving ;l speeds of up to 116 mph against Seles. 
"It was always a goal," Williams said of closing in 011 the litle. "But it's really coming true. I'm so excited that my work is paying off." 
Soles said sh,~ has come to acn~pt that she had her time as a champion and "now it's Venus' and Scrona's timo." 
"Thn dnsirn is still thero," slw said, "but physically I can't cover the court as well." 
Dav1mport Llarnly dung to her reign as U.S. Open champion, thanks Lo the most auspicious shower and a double fault on match point by Mary Pierce that mado a packed stadium groan. 
Davnnport survivr,d two match points against her. then 
came back from the rain break to beat Pierce 6~2. 3-6, 7-5. 
"I should have been on my way to Manhattan and started packing to go home tomorrow morning," Davenport said. 'Tm just lucky to be here. Sometimes it just turns the tournament around. You play even better after that." 
Davenport and Pierce engaged in the most thrilling women's match of the tourna­ment so far, riveting the rans in Arthur Ashe Stadium right to the wrenching end. 
Just as compelling was Yovgnny Kafelnikov's 7-6 (7-0), 7-6 (7-4), 3-6, 1-6, 7-5 (7-5) 
quarterfinal vir.tory over Hichard Krajicek, who set an Open era record with 48 aces. 
Krajicck, seeded No. 12. broke Goran Ivanisevic's record of 46 aces, also set in a losing llffort, against Magnus Norman al Wimbledon in 1997. 
Kafelnikov, seeded No. :i, will play in the semis against tho 

winner of the Andre Agassi­Nicolas Escude quarterfinal match. 
For all the power of the Kafolnikov-Krajicek match, it didn't exceed the tension of the Davenport-Pierce duel. 
"I don't think she completely froze," Davenport said of tho match-ending double fault by Pierce. "I think sho maybe got a little nervous. Everybody does it. I don't care if you're No. 1 in the world, No. 100 in the world, a guy or a girl. Everyone gets light whenever you're serving for a match in a big situation. no matter how many timr,s you go through it." 
Pierce played perhaps the best tennis of her life for most of two sets as she dictated points with deep. hard ground­strokes and pushed Davenport to the brink of defeat. But tho 1995 Australian Open champi­on couldn't quite put the match away when she served at 5-4 in the third set. 

"I had my chances," Pierce 

said. •·1 guess that's what makes 
Lindsay one of the top players N 
she's always thern and shr. 
plays the big points well. I give 
her a lot of credit. She played a 
great match. I'm just proud of 
myself. I kept hanging in there." 
A fow sprinkles fell as Pierce 

took the court at 5-4 in tho 
third in hopes of serving out tlrn 
mat.ch. Davenport. despllrate 
for a break, pawed the court 
with lrnr foot and looked at tho 
umpire for a rain dolay but 
didn't get it. 
Pierce reached her first 

match point at 40-30 when shr, 
struck a crisp backhand winner 
crosscourt. But after narrowly 
missing on an ace attompt, she 
saw Davenport save the match 
with a sharply angled backhand 
from midcourl that clipp1\d the 
sideline. 
Pierce thnn served her l'irst 

double fault of the set and sixth 
of the match. She brushed that 
off. though, fought back to 
deuce, and secured her sncond 
match point with a brilliantly 
played rally that ended with her 
punching a fornhand approach 
shot out of Davenport's reach. 
With the spitting rain holding o!T, Pierce whacked a backhand crosscourt that she thought gave her tlrn match. She pumped hor fist in triumph, but her cehibration was prnmatur11. The linesman called tho ball wide N replays showm! tlrn shot missed by an inch or two N and Piercr, threw back her lwad in frustration and nervous laugh­ter. 
'Tm human. I got a little bit nervous and a littln tight," Pierce said. "I went for that shot, which I really didn't nend to do. It was short and I folt like I could go for it. It felt good. But it wasn't, unfortunately." 
Two unforced errors -a 

backhand long and a forehand 
in. the net -then cost Pierce 
the game and tind the set at 5­
5. 
The sprinkles suddllnly camn down more frequllntly, and Davenport showed no eager­ness to continue. She remem­bered the slippery surface that caused good friend Mary Joe Fernandez to fall and hurt her­self against Venus Williams, and she wanted a little time after gaining the big brnak. She asked the umpire to stop play, and, after a brinl' discussion, got her way. 
Pierce had to go into tlrn lock­er room and ruminate about tlrn chances sho had missed, and Davenport could take the time to collect lrnr thoughts about capitalizing on the opportunity she now had. 
"It's such a diflicult position for a rain delay. morn so for her, I'm sure," Davenport said. 
When they rnturnnd an hour and 10 minutes later -tlrn thin rain had persisted through bright sunshine during that time -Davenport op,Hwd with a pair of aces. Though Pi,1rc11 pushed the game to dcuc1\ with several clnan winners, Davonport held snrvn for a 6-:i lead. 
Pierce's only hopn was to takn the match into a tiellrnaker, but wlrnn she had lrnr first chance at 40-30, she made anotlrnr unforced error to make it deuce. Davenport then earned match point with a supnrb fore­hand crosscourt that Pierct1 slapped long. Piorce had three more chances to win the gamn, but couldn't convert any of' them. 
The Observer . SPORTS

page 18 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Lampkin leads Mariners over Jays 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE 

Tom Lampkin hit a two­run homer in the ninth inning Wednesday night, giving the Seattle Mariners a 4-3 win over the Toronto Blue Jays, who remained :i 1/2 games back in the wild­card race. 
Ken Griffey Jr's AL-leading 44th homer gave the Mariners a 2-1 lead in the eighth, but Carlos Delgado's second home of the game, his 42nd of the season, put Toronto ahead 3-2 in the ninth against Jose Mesa (2­
5). 
Jay Buhner walked against Billy Koch (0-3) leading off the bottom half and Lampkin followed with his seventh homer of the season, con­necting on a 1-2 pitch. 
Griffey's two-run homer came against Graeme Lloyd, making him 4-for-12 with three homers against the left-hander. 
Delgado had his sixth mul­tihomer game of the season, and three of them have been against Seattle. 
He has 16 multihomer games in his career. 
Toronto lost a chance to gain ground on Boston, the wild-card leader. 
The Red Sox lost 6-2 at Oakland. 
Mariners starter Jamie Moyer allowed one run and six hits in eight innings, giv­ing up a home run to Delgado in the seventh. 
Toronto's Roy Halladay, winless since July 31, gave up four hits in seven shutout innings. 
Yankees 9, Royals 5 
Luis Sojo hit a three-run double and Darryl Strawberry scored three runs as thP New York Yankees beat the Kansas City Hoyals 9-5 Wednesday night. 
Mariano Hivera got the final five outs to become the first Yankees' pitcher with two 40-save seasons. 
Hivera, who had 43 saves in 1997, relieved Mike Stanton with one out and two on in the eighth and got pinch-hitter Scott Pose to ground into a double play. Hivcra finished for his 40th save in 44 chances. 

Shane Spencer hit a two­run double for the Yankees, who had lost three straight to Kansas City. 
The Royals, who outhit New York 15-11, won the season series 5-4 after going 0-10 against New York last 
year. Jeremy Giambi who went 4-for-5 for the first four-hit game of his career. 
After singling, doubling and homering, he hit an infield single with two outs 
in the ninth. 
Orlando Hernandez (16-7) allowed all five runs and 12 hits in seven innings, striking out seven. He is 4-0 in seven starts since losing to Boston on Aug. 1 and has won nine of his last 10 decisions. 
With the score 3-all, New York scored four runs in the fifth off reliever Glendon Rusch (0-1). 
Tino Martinez hit an RBI single and another run scored as left fielder Dee Brown threw wildly to sec­ond for an error. 
Jorge Posada chased Husch with RBI single, and Scott Brosius hit a sacrifice 11y off Scott Service. 
Joe Randa's RBI double cut it to 7-4 in the sixth, but Spencer hit a two-run double off Brad Rigby in the sev­enth. Giambi homered in the bottom half. 
Royals starter Mac Suzuki gave up three runs, two hits and four walks in ·two innings. 
Carlos Beltran's RBI single and Mike Sweeney's two-run homer put Kansas City ahead 3-0 in the first, but Sojo's double tied it in the second. 
Orioles 10, Twins 0 
Brady Anderson homered twice, including his 36th leadoff shot of his career, and the Baltimore Orioles shut out the Minnesota Twins for the second straight night, 10-0 Wednesday. 
Anderson led off a game with a home run for the sev­
.., 
5est 5uddies 
ITS ABOUT HAVING AND BEING AFRIEND! 

Come to our informational meeting on Thursday, September 9th , 7pm at the CSC! 
For more information call: Mimi x2735 or Colleen x 4072 
Your next friend mtght be your Best Buddy/II 
enth time this year, then hit a two-run homer in the sev­enth, both off LaTroy Hawkins (9-12). 
Anderson moved past Bobby Bonds for the second­most leadoff homers and trails only Rickey Henderson of the New York Mets, who has 75. 
Anderson, 2-for-3 with four HBis, also had a second­inning sacrifice f'ly as Baltimore improved to 7-1 against the Twins this year. 
Jason Johnson (6-7), Gabe 
Molina and B.J. Ryan com­
bined on a six-hitter, getting 
defensive help from four 
double plays. 
Minnesota, which got just 
two runners past first, has 
nine hits in its last two game. 
Johnson left after throwing 
a pitch over the head of 
catcher Mike Pigga as he 
warmed up before the bot­
tom of the sixth. He 
appeafCd to have a problem 
with his pitching hand. 
B.J Surhoff also homered in the seventh. his 26th of the season. 
Jerry Hairston had two hits 
and two RBIs for the Orioles, 
and Albert Belle had three 
hits and his 99th RBI. 
Baltimore scored three 
times in the first against 
Hawkins. 
After Anderson's homer, 
Mike Bordick, Surhoff and 
Belle hit consecutive singles, 
with Bordick scoring on 
Belle·s hit. 
The third run scored when 
Cal Ripken hit into a double 
play. 
Hairston's single made it 5­0 in the third after Belle dou­bled. Hairston also doubled home Jeff Conine in the eighth. 
2 0 


Pulliam Journalism Fellowships 
Graduating college seniors are invited to apply for the 27th annual Pulliam Journalism Fellowships. We will grant IO-week summer internsrups to 20 journalism or liberal arts majors in the August 1999-June 2000 graduating classes. 
Previous internsrup or part-time experience at a newspaper is desired, or other demonstration of writing and reporting ability. Those who go through the Fellowships often find new professional opportunities opening up at other newspapers during and after the program. Winners will receive a $5,500 stipend and will work at either The Indianapolis Star or The Arizona Republic. Opportunities for online training are available, along with reporting experience at our major metropolitan daily newspapers. 
Early-admissions application postmark deadline is Nov. l 5, 1999. By Dec. 15, I 999, up to five early-admissions winners will be notified. All other entries must be postmarked by March 1, 2000, and will be consid­ered with remaining early-admissions applicants. Successful applicants will be notified on or before April 1 ,' 2000, and will be asked to r~spond immediately with a letter of intent, at which tirhe one-third of the cash grant will be mailed to the Fellow . 
To request an application packet, visit our Web site, e-mail us or write: 

Web site: www.stamews.com/pjf E-mail: pulliam@stamews.com 
Thursday, September 9, 1999 
SOCCER 

U.S national team takes on Brazil 
Associated Press 

DENVER 
Perhaps still haunted by visions of' Brandi Chastain's impromptu victory celebration during the women's World Cup, the Chinese national soc­cer team wanted no part of a friendly rematch. 
The United States will have settle for the next best thing. 
The U.S. women's national 
team will play Brazil in 
Denver ·on Sept. 26. The 
Americans beat Brazil in the 
World Cup semifinals before 
defeating China on Chastain's 
deciding penalty kick in the 
finals. 

U.S. Soccer president Bob Contiguglia said China was invited to take part in a series of exhibition matches that will conclude with the U.S. Women's Cup '99 nPxt month. 
"They're not interested in 
coming back to the U.S.," 
Contiguglia said Wednesday. 
"It is still a disappointment for 
them. I think the next time 
they want to play us is in the 
Olympic finals." 

The U.S. women became 
national celebrities with their 
run through the World Cup, 
and Chastain was the cover 
girl on several magazines 
after removing her shirt in 
celebration of her game-win­
ning goal on July 10. 

Though the crush of auto­graph requests and talk-show appearances have slowed, the 
U.S. women are trying to con­tinue their momentum and prepare for the 2000 Olympics with games around the coun­try. 
They beat overmatched Ireland 5-0 last Saturday in Foxboro, Mass., and will play international games in the next month in Denver; Columbus, Ohio; Kansas City, Mo.; and Louisville, Ky. 
"We wanted to share and celebrate the women·s victory with areas of the country where we didn't have games," Contiguglia said. "Colorado has a very rich women's soc­cer history. We've turned out some of the finest playors in the country. It's a supportive community." 
About 7,000 tickets have 
been sold for the game at Mile 
High Stadium. More than 
30,000 people watched the 
game in Foxboro, and 
Contiguglia expects 40,000 in 
Denver. 
"This is the level that we've 
always dreamod that women's 
soccer would become in this 
country." said forward Cindy 
Parlow, who scored against 
Brazil in the World Cup. "To 
have the media come out, to 
have the TV, to have all the 
endorsement opportunities ... 
we've worked so hard to get to 
the level we have reached, 
and I think it's very well­
deserved." 
With a victory over Brazil, 
the U.S. women would tie the 
3-year-old team record of 22 
victories in a calendar year. 
Parlow doesn't expect the 
record to come easy, and the 
World Cup semifinals support 
her case. 
Brazil had a chance to beat 
the Americans, but goaltender 
Briana Scurry made several 
breathtaking saves to help the · 
United States to a 2-0 victory. 
0 0 

Russell B. Pulliam Pulliam Fellowships Director Indianapolis Newspapers P.O. Box 145 Indianapolis, IN 46206-0145 
Thursday, September 9, 1999 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 
Calendar of Events 
Sankofa Scholars Honors Assembly and Reception 
Thursday, September 9, 7:00 pm, Eck Center Auditorium 
Freshman retreat #24 (Sept. 24-25) Sign Up 
Continuing until September 20, 103 Hesburgh library, 112 Badin Hall Targeted Dorms: Badin, Keenan, Lewis, O'Neill Family, Pasquerilla East, St. Edward's, Morrissey, Walsh, and Zahm 
Manantial Mentor Retreat 
Friday-Saturday, September 10-11, Angela House, Michigan City 
Liturgical Choir Retreat 
Friday-Saturday, September 10-11, Bair Lake in Michigan 
Rejoice! Black Catholic Mass Sunday, September 12, 4:00 pm, Sorin Hall Chapel 
Dinner for Alianza Officers 
Sunday, September 12, 6:00 pm, Morris Inn 
Eucharistic Ministry Workshop 
Sunday, September 12, 2:30 pm, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
RCIA-lnformation Session for Candidates 
Sunday, September 12, 1:00 pm, Notre Dame Room-LaFortune 
Campus Bible Study 
Tuesday, September 14, 7:00 pm, Badin Hall Chapel 
Interdenominational Christian Night Prayer Wednesday, September 15, 10:00 pm, Walsh Hall Chapel 
TWENTY-FOURTH SUNDAY IN ORDINARY TIME 
Weekend Preslders at Sacred Heart Basilica Saturday, September 11 
Mass 5:00 p.m. Rev. Gary S. Chamberland, C.S.C. 
Sunday, September 12 
Mass 10:00 a.m. Rev. Gary S. Chamberland, C.S.C. 
11:45 a.m. Rev. Thomas P. Doyle, C.S.C. 
Sunday, September 12 
Vespers 7:15 p.m. Rev. David J. Scheidler, C.S.C. 
Scripture Readings 
1st Reading  Sirach 27: 33-28:9  
2nd Reading  Romans 14:7-9  
Gospel  Matthew 18: 21-35  

ARE YOU SETTLED? 
Jim Lies, C.S.C. 
A few years ago at this time, I was the new rector in Zahm Hall. ln the first month of school that year many asked if I was all moved in. While I most often said "yes," that did not accurately describe the reality. Although I was, in some literal sense, moved in, I have since come to appreciate the important distinction between being moved in and feeling settled. For a number of rea­sons I felt far from settled for a long time. It actually had little to do with the fact that I hadn't quite worked out a new filing system or found the perfect place for those prized photos of friends and family. The reality had more to do with the fact that I didn't know a lot of the guys and I hadn't quite worked out a routine. No two days were the same in those first weeks. I'm sure it had everything to do with the fact that I was new at this Rector thing and that Campus Ministry was keeping me hopping, but some days I felt like a bumper pool ball, bouncing from one thing to another with little control over where I'd end up next. 
I have little doubt that many of you have found yourselves enduring the same sensation and longing for a routine, particularly where academics are concerned, so that you can be about some of the seemingly more important things that you came to college to do. I know that when I get together with my own college friends these days, fifteen years after the fact, as important as we knew academics to be, we don't speak primarily about what went on in the classroom, however hard that may be to hear for even my favorite professors. More often, we talk about the rest of life, that which happened outside of the classroom. My experience these past years has made me realize that if I am not attentive to my own schedule, organize my time and prioritize my activi­ties, these precious days will get away from me. Early on, at the end of an all too often typical day I found myself wondering why I didn't take any time for exercise, or why I didn't spend some time at the grotto, or why I didn't take a minute to just kick back with friends. I find myself more determined than ever not to let these days be less than they could be, or less than God would have them be. 
For three years I had the privilege of being rector of the London Program. During that time, I was-often suprised by the frustration that some of the students felt because they didn't feel like they were having the kind of experience that their friends who had been to London before them had described upon their return. I find myself wondering if I don't have some­thing to learn now from the advice that I gave them then. It wasn't then, and isn't now, about some incredible "Notre Dame Moment." God graces every moment, and so it's about every moment. It's about being attentive to the gift­edness of our lives wherever we are: in the classroom, in the dining hall, on the quad, or in our residence halls. And it's about taking time to consider and reflect upon these days even in the midst of them. I've become convinced that it is only upon reflection that we really experience anything. Those London program students who came back and raved about their experiences had not only the advantage of the entire experience but also some time for reflection upon it. All I could do for the frustrated London student was to encourage them to live the moment, and to take some quiet time alone to revel in the remarkable opportunity that was theirs. It is the best advice I can offer here as well, for you and for me. 
In the end, it is that time that we spend alone that disposes us best for prayer. Whether we are moved in such moments by gratitude, or need, or love, or pain, it is in the silence that we discern best what we wish to bring before God. It is in just such moments that we get to know the person that we are becoming, and move ever closer to the person that we long to be. The set­tlcdness that we seek lies somewhere in the quiet, and in the beyond. It's somewhere in that time alone. Whether it be in a walk around the lakes, or some time at the grotto, or in those rare moments when you may actually have your room to yourself, we need to pause and pray; lest our lives get away from us and we never really know what we have here until we're gone. Cardinal Basil Hume, O.S.B. said it best, in the months before his death, when he spoke at the dedication of Notre Dame's London Center Marian Kennedy Fischer Hall. He spoke of the need to "be silent and still, and look also inwards" in the midst of our academic pursuits. "Stand back from time to time;" he said, "then take your eye off the immediate, and dream about the ultimate, about the absolute, about God. A university is a place for dreams." Never let it be said of us that we did not dream in this place; that we did not pause from time to time to reflect on that in this place which is beyond the immediate, and the busy. To be people of prayer is at the very heart of what we are as a Catholic community and as the Notre Dame family. 
"' 
l¦I 
0MPUS 
MINISTRY 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 9, 1999 
.. 
NFL 
Reid ready to lead Eagles out of slump in season opener 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA 

Nine months ago, Andy Reid peered out at a crowded room in a posh downtown hotel like a man surveying his predators. 
lie said confidently, with a booming voice, that he was the right man to end years of frus­tration for the Philadelphia Eagles. 
"I'd never put myself in a bad situation," Reid said, his words strong enough to carry all the way to this week's season open­er. "I feel very confident that this organization can win." 
It is almost time to find out about where Heid can lead a team that is picked almost unanimously to be the worst in football for the second straight year. 
The deep wounds of a painful 3-13 season under Ray Rhodes have been covered up in the best way possible. There is a new man in charge, a revamped coaching staff, more than 20 new players. Despite a treach­erous exhibition season in which the Eagles were 1-3 and dreadful as ever on offense, there is hope in the locker room that there will be no repeat of the Great Train Wreck of '98. 
"Going through last year was an experience I won't wish on anybody," said cornerback Troy Vincent, a bright spot on what is expected to be a strong defense. 
"It was very tough to work all week and then go out on Sunday and have so much trou­ble winning football games. I had never been through that before. I hope I'm not ever going to go through that again." 

In his short time at the helm, Reid has made no secret of his willingness to make changes and his distaste for slackers. He juggled the offensive line con­stantly, cut veterans George Hegamin and Jerry Crafts and displayed little patience for an offense that was painful to watch. 
The Eagles· first team failed to score a touchdown in the exhibition season for the second straight year. 
So far, Reid has resisted the temptation to turn the starting quarterback job over to Donovan McNabb, the No. 2 overall pick in the draft. 
Starter Doug Pederson was ineffective in four exhibition starts, and McNabb had a breakout performance in relief in the team's only exhibition win, a 30-17 rout of Cleveland. 
"I've been a patient guy all my life," McNabb said. "You work and prepare, and if the opportu­nity is there for the taking, you have to go out and take advan­tage of it." 
Pederson, a career third­stringer who followed Reid to Philadelphia from Green Bay, will start Sunday against Arizona. 
If the offense is as fruitless as in the preseason, the rabble at 
ATTENTION: Freshman 
,,,Ieading---­
Two New female ns are being added to the 

Discover Financial Services, Inc. abusiness unit of Morgan Stanley Dean Witter &Co., operates all Discover Brands with more than 46 million cardmemt>ers and the Disc()ller4/Novus Network°. The network is the largest indepern:Jent credit card network in the United States with more lllan 3million merchant and cash access locatioos. We are currently seeking indwiduals with experience in any ol the tollowing areas: 
COBOL ¦ CIC$ ¦ VSAM ¦ DB/Z ¦ JCL C ¦ C++ ¦ JAVA ¦ ORACLE ¦ UNIX ASSEMBLER ¦ WINDOWS 95/NT ¦ OOP PUI ¦ DATA WAREHOUSING • osn 

We offer awide array ol WO!kplace amenities including exGellent salaries and benefits, 401K, profit sharing, tuition reimbursement, fitness center and acasual dless environmenL If unable to attend, please send your scanable resume to: Discover Financial Services, Inc. Human Resources, IT Recruiter 2500 Lake Cook Road ¦ Riverwoods, IL 60015 Fax: f847J 405-1388 
Vistt our Web Sffe at: 
www.novusnet.com 
EOE MIF/DN
ltWill 
the Vet will waste no time call­ing for McNabb. "It can get nasty," McNabb said. 
Reid, the second-youngest coach in the league at 41, prefers not to rush a young quarterback into duty before his time. 
"If he doesn't achiewi, all of a sudden teammates look at him funny, the media looks at him funny, and inevitably the coach­es might look at him funny," Reid said. 
"That's not a healthy situa­tion. And at the same time, you're asking him to maintain his confidence to pull the trig­ger. That's tough." 
Never mind Pederson and McNabb. Johnny llnitas would have a tough time playing quar­terback for the Eagles. 
Reid has been unhappy with the play of wide receivers Torrance Small and Charles Johnson, and the offensive line is in disarray. 
Two rookies Doug Brzezinski and John Welbourn -are listed as starters up front. 
Jamie Asher's season-ending ankle injury left the Eagles woe­fully short at tight end, a vital position in B.eid's version of the West Coast offense. Rookie Jed Weaver is the starter. 
His two backups, Luther Broughton and Ron Leshinski, both were signed this week. 
"Am I happy with the ofTense?" Reid asked. "No, I am 
Mishawaka Wal*Mart Super Center 
Vision Center proudly welcomes 
Dr. Troy Rhodes, OD 
Independent Dr. of Optometry to our office 
243-9714 


Specializing in family optome­try and contact lenses 
Pay to The 
not." 

On the bright side, the defense performed well beyond expecta­tions in the exhibition season under new coordinator Jim Johnson. 
His active, blitzing style suits the Eagles' young talent better than the read-and-react schemes of Emmitt Thomas. 
Vincent and Bobby Taylor are a solid corncrback tandem. Brian Dawkins is a rising star at safety, and DE Hugh Douglas is one of the league's best pass-
rushers. Mike Mamula, the other end, is healthy again. 
Rookie Barry Gardner looks strong at middle line backer, where he will begin the season as Jeremiah Trotter's backup. 
"ff you look at the film, we'rn in a lot better situation than we were at th is time last year," Douglas said. 
While it is a positive sign that Heid and director of football operations Tom Modrak have a plan. it is going to take patience. 

Experience dining in the truetS~~ 
spirit of Notre Dame. 5iu.NS 
631-2020 





Order Of Wal-Mart Pharmacy 
$5.00 

Get Your  (Good At  ________Location)  
Prescription FREE Up To $5.00, If Over $5 Pay The Difference.  
Limit 1 Coupon Per Family (Maximum 30 Day Supply)  Customer Signature  
Trans# ______  

NOT NEGOTIABLE FOR CASH 
L----------------------------------------------Pharmacist Signature .J 
It's Easy To Transler Your Prescription To Awa1-Mart Pharmacy. Just Bring Us Your Prescri tion Or Refill Bottle And Our Pharmacist Will Do The Rest. 
:---------------~----------~-----~-------------­
Thursday, September 9. 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
NFL 
Plummer plans to start for Cards 
Associated Press 
TEMPE. Ariz. 

.Jake l'lummer said on Wednesday that his sore right thumb is improving daily and lw expects to start Sunday in tlw Arizona Cardinals' season opmwr in Philadelphia. 
''I'm playing," h,i said af'ter tho Cardinals workr.d out in 107-degrne hnat on Wodnesday. 
'Tm starting and playing th,~ 
game." 
Then hn lwdged a little, giving hirnsnlf u some wiggln room should his thumb worsen in Lhn 1wxt day or two. 
"If I co1111i out lrnre tomorrow morning anu I can't movn it and I 1:a11 't Pvcm grip 11111 ball, tlwn I'm probubly not going to go," l'lumnwr said. "But f'rom what it's been doing, it's bnn1 healing and getting heller ovnry day, so I'm looking for tomorrow to br. that much bntlPr." 
Coach Vince Tobin wasn't quite ready Lo pronouncn 
Plummer thn starting quarter­back. 
"Jake is taking some snaps. He did a lot morn today than he did Monday," Tobin said. 
"But this is only Wednesday, and wn've gol a long way lo go. llopofully. he'll be ready to go but right now I can'L pronounce anything other than to say wP've listed him as question• able." 
Plummer sprained the thumb on his throwing hand when he was sacked on the first series in the exhibition game against Temrnssee on Aug. 20. 
Until this week. he was able only to watch as the Cardinals worknd out with backup nave Brown at quarterback. The only passes he had thrown were with his NinU\ndo game. 
"I didn't have one but I actu­ally got one the other day," Plummer said. "I hate the game becaus,~ I'm a good quarterback but I can't throw the ball at all in that stupid game. Bul it is good therapy for my thumb a liltln bit." 
Including the playoffs. Plummer has started the last 27 games for the Cardinals. Entering his third NFL season, he already has thrown for 5,940 yards and 32 touch­downs. The injury was the first he's had of any consequence since his freshman season at Arizona State. 
"It's been tough. It's been hard." he said. "I've stayed in the mental side of it and tried to keep up on the offense. But it's tough to know you've got to come out here and stand around." 
During training camp, he said, he was throwing the ball better than ever, so the setback has been frustrating. 
"13ut at least it's getting bet• ter," Plummer said. "The more positive thoughts I give it, hope­fully. the quicker it will heal. It just feels good to be in the hud­dle calling plays and have my teammates looking at me in the eye instead of walking by me and asking how my thumb's doing." 

~CUT IUEAND HANG ON DOORKNOB_---.----_____________________ -• 
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I  

I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 


I I 

I Dear _____ the grouch,
I I 
' 
' 

' There's something you should know. In
'I I the morning, you are unbelievably grumpy.
' 
'I 

I And that's putting it very, very nicely. So, because I like yoo, may I suggest you start the day with a CROISSAN'WICH' from BURGER KING'. It's filled with mouthwatering sausage, egg and cheese. And that should make anyone less cranky. Ever, you. If it doesn't, then we're on to Plan B. And you don't want to know Plan B. 
Sincerely, ______ 

THE DELICIOUS CROISSAN'W/CH: 
The Huddle · LJ,fortl.1'18 Student Center 

Arizona at odds with Moore over contract 
Associated Press 
TEMPE. Ariz. 

Four days before the season opener at Philadelphia. the Arizona Cardinals still haven't reached a contract agreement with wide receiver Rob Moore. 
On Tuesday, there were several broadcast reports, both nationally and locally, that a deal was imminent. 
But Wednesday came and went without any word that the big-play receiver had agreed to a deal, and coach Vince Tobin, obviously weary of answering questions about Moore, said the game plan was developed assuming he wouldn't be with the team. 
"I'm not counting him out, but I'm not counting on hav­ing him, either," Tobin said after .Wednesday's practice, "I've got to deal with reality, and the reality is he's not here." 
Moore has been at odds with Cardinals management since the team designated him their franchise player during the of'fseason. The Arizona Hepublic and The Tribune of Mesa reported Wednesday that the 30-year­old receiver had agreed to a three-year, $15 million con­tract, but that the sides were far apart on how much of that should be a signing bonus. 
The Tribune said Moore wants a $6 million signing bonus. and the Cardinals have offered about $3.5 mil­lion. 
Moore's agent, . Gary Wichard. did not return phone calls to his office on Wednesday. The Cardinals have had no .comment on the talks. 
On Monday, Cardinals quar• terback Jake Plummer criti­cized the team's management for its handling of the Moore matter. 
"Until someone upstairs realizes how important Hob Moore is to this whole offense and this season. we're going to have to learn to play with­out him," Plummer said. "Hopefully, they'll realize that he's a game-breaker and a guy we have to have out there." 
Moore, entering his 10th NFL season. is 11th among active players in receptions with 598 for 8,747 yards and 44 touchdowns. lie has bnnn working out on his own and, because he knows the Arizona offense, wouldn't need much time to get ready. Ile could play against Philadelphia nvcn if he doesn't sign until late in the week. 
Happy 19th Birfday (Yesterday) Alex! 
Keep it real, Much love from your dogs. 

Office of International Study Programs ­Information Meetings 
MEXICO P R O G R A M S Professor Juan Rivera Claudia Kselman Student Returnees 
It just tastes better.· 
Thursday, September 9, 1999 Monday September 20 1999 126 DeBartolo 4:45 P.M. 
www_bu rgerking .com LIMITED TIME ONLY PRICE ANO PARTICIPATION MAY VARY DURING BREAKFAST HOURS ONLY 
019111 IIJUR IQI«; COIIPOIWION llllliER KING l)J1P(lR.\ll(JI IS 1l£ !XCWSM LICEIISU ,:. M "IT .IJ51 TAS!ES 8ETIER" TlWlE,_>KJ 11£ REGISTEREO IIIJ"'811Qt<;, CllllSSNIWK>l Nil ll.w tw.',fS LOGO l1WlEl,Wl(S 
It's Not too Late to apply for Spring 2000! 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 9, 1999 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Oakland capitalizes on Boston errors for win 
Associated Press 
OAKLAND, Calif. 
Kevin Appier pitched six strong innings and Oakland benefited from three Boston errors leadlng to four unearned runs as the Athletics beat the Red Sox 6-2 Wednesday in the final meet­ing between the wild-card rivals. 
Olmedo Saenz homered, John Jaha hit a two-run dou­ble and Matt Stairs had a go­ahead HBI single for Oakland. The A's gained a split of the two-game set and cut Boston's lead in the AL wild-card race to three games with 22 rl'maining. 
Boston had its four-game winning streak stopped but the club is still 4-2 midway through a cri.tical 12-game road trip. The Hed Sox now head to New York, where they will open a three-game week­end series Friday against the AL East-leading Yankees. 
The A's, also off Thursday, 
open a seven-game road trip 
Friday at Tampa Bay. 
Appier (14-12) allowed two 
runs on four hits. He struck 
out seven and walked five to 
improve to 5-3 since Oakland 
acquired him in a July 31 
trade with Kansas Citv. It was 
Appier's first win fn three 
starts against Boston this sea­
son. 
Pat Rapp (6-6), losing a start 
for the first time since June 
17, went 5 1-3 innings and 
allowed seven hits and six 
runs, only two earned. He 
struck out four and walked 
three. 
Oakland, which committed 
two errors and allowed four 
unearned runs in Tuesday 
night's 5-3 loss, were the ben-­
eficiaries of Red Sox mistakes. 
The game even began in similar fashion only the teams and players traded places. 
Reminiscent of Oakland 
shortstop Miguel Tejada's 
drop of a routine popup on the 
game's first play the night 
before, Boston shortstop 
Donnie Sadler was high with 

his throw after fielding Rich Becker's leadoff' grounder, pulling first baseman Brian Daubach off the bag and allowing Becker to reach. 
Rangers 3, Indians 0 
John Burkett, Tim Crabtree and the Texas Hangers pre­vented Cleveland from clinch· ing the AL Central title, shut­ting down the Indians 3-0 Wednesday night 
The Indians' magic number .remained at one. Cleveland could win its fifth straight division championship later at night if second-place Chicago lost in Anaheim. 
The Indians and White Sox are off Thursrlay, then begin a three-game series Friday at Chicago. 
AL West-leading Texas fin­ished off a two-game sweep and improved to 7-3 against Cleveland this season. The Rangers have won four straight meetings and five of six. 
Burkett (7-7) used a variety of slow but well-located pitch• es to baffl~Cleveland for 6 2-3 innings. Ife walked off to a standing ovation, having allowed seven hits. 
Burkett left with runners on second and third, but Crabtree struck out pinch-hitter Manny Ramirez with a 98 mph fast­ball to end the threat. 
John Wetteland pitched the ninth for his major league­leading 41st save, including four in three days. The Indians finished with eight hits. 
This was the second time in three weeks that Burkett, whose fastball onlv bits the mid-80s mph, hur{1bled the highest-scoring team in the majors. He allowed one run in eight innings in a 6-1 victory Aug. 18. 
Burkett won for the third straight start. He walked two and struck out seven, includ­ing Richie Sexson three times. 
The first five hits Burkett gave up were all two-out sin­gles, three of them by Roberto Alomar. 
NFL 

Cards optimistic despite injuries 
Associated PreS$ 

TEMPE, Ariz. 
For the Arizona Cardinals, a breakthrough season was followed by a long, ugly sum­mer of player departures, contract hassles and injuries. 
The team enters the 1999 season facing the second­toughest schedule in the NFC, hased on last year's records. Even in the conference deri­sively known as the NFC I.east, Arizona faces an uphill climb for a second consecu­tive trip to the playoffs . 
Still, coach Vince Tobin begins his fourth season insisting he remains opti­mistic that the Cardinals will build on last year's success, a 9-7 record and a victory over Dallas for the franchise's first playoff triumph in 52 years. 
"We've had a lot of things we've had to overcome," Tobin said. ''but I think through it all it will make us a better football team." 
Any reason for optimism begins with Jake Plummer, who is emerging as one of the next great quarterbacks in pro football. 
Last season, after a slow start, Plummer engineered a series of last-second tri­umphs that earned the team its first winning season since 1984. But his preparation has been hampered by a sprained right thumb that kept him out of the last two exhibition games. 
"It's going to hurt him some," Tobin said. "You need to be out there playing. He's certainlv not a seasoned. vet­eran, gnarled quarterback. He's going into his third year, his second year of really 
starting, and he needed the work." 
Ile also needs Rob Moore, the big-play wide receiver who is one of three players who have lwld out in contract disputes with the notoriously conservative Cardinals' own­ership of Bill Bidwill. The others are Mark Smith. sore­ly missed at defensive tackle, and first-round draft pick L.J. Shelton, who had a chance to start at offensive tackle. 
The Cardinals already were without three of their main leaders from last season. Linebacker Jamir Miller and offensive tackle Lomas Brown went elsewhere as free, agents, and the team cut fullback Larry Centers. 
Both starting offensive guards missed most of the preseason, Chris Dishman with elbow surgery and Lester Holmes with facial lac­erations that were the result of the car crash that crushed the right arm of backup offensive lineman Ernest Dye. 
Defensive tackle Eric Swann, the two-time Pro Bowl performer who under­went surgery on his arthritic right knee twice last year, said he won't be ready to play until six or seven weeks into the season. 
"We've had plenty of things happen that haven't gone in our direction," Plummer said. 
The schedule includes games at Miami. the New York Jets, Atlanta and Green Bay, and home games against San Francisco, New England and Buffalo. 
"Actually, I'm looking for­ward to it," wide receiver Frank Sanders said. "It's exciting. They are teams we haven't played in awhilo. 
Those are teams that have consistently won and been in a position to be champs. I think we have an opportunity to go out and make some things happe.n this year." 
If Moore eventually signs, the Cardinals would have three big-time receivers, counting Sanders and rookie David Boston. Adrian Murrell, who rushed for more than l ,000 yards the last two seasons, will be backed up by muscleman Michael Pittman. Rookie Joel Makovicka has won the start­ing fullback job. 
On defense, Andre Wadsworth and Simeon nice are solid at defensive ends, as is the secondary with cor­nerbacks Aeneas Williams and Corey Chavl'ous at safeties Tommy Bennett and Kwami Lassiter. 
Free agent Hob Frederickson was signed to replace Miller. He's better against the pass but not nearly as good against the run. The other outside line­backer is a big question mark. The coaches were so dissatisfied with Patrick Sapp and Tony McCombs that they gave the job to second-year pro Zack Walz. 
Smith and Swann would have been one of the league's most formidable tandems at defensive tackle. Their replacements, Jerry Drake and Hashod Swinger, are something less than that. 
The odds don't look good, but that's nothing new for a franchise that's be1rn down this long. 
"We're going to surprise everybody again," Wadsworth said, "and that's the way I like it." 





1.nfon i !(AU ~-----, n.Aogy inance dnd 
ent (~onsurner· rviarket Knovvl edge 
in 

nc1cohl@Cfie·ae'~iioJ~rt11:·ij iffian:yernent
eao(} r:nfo,11:1:':lt!on : e-,.cT1 no1or:1\/ 11 t 1t1nce and 
Man~fJ?i~~l,-in•~,~mi:;~,r¥iffi1J~~l,~sf9~1~~,~fr:Jge 
c;f i  aPC'8 av1r4 _f'\f"'Ct01 P7.'n~m~:::r"'),n·d-·'1;., ! .,, ,;, (;.! .,.\/4 r,,.,J:· \)!1 .hf,,:r·· .,,,/ Cl, .  ;Mt-:tnEHg··em.Ar'1t•. ,t;A. C,,._· •,. ·'•~' .  
edge·  b:~~•~U~c~tYd~n:l~,.Jl,t Finance and  
-0 ·roc•e·r' ·an....,G·-a·m· ..,.le"' v• .#qpj(en L1 .) •••·• . : W'.'. ' ·.• : u .'iii IU'-P-.ri  e· .,«•It·~ l'\-l....,;!;_;JV  


JEFF HSU/The Observer Sophomore forward Troy Murphy underwent hernia surgery in July, but will be back to lead the Irish this season. 
Murphy earns 'Best of the Rest' honors 
Thursday, September 9, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Helton homers put Rockies on top 
As~ociated Press MONTBEAI. Todd Ilnllon homernd Lwice Lo rnad1 :HJ for Lhe first timt! in his carPnr and drove in thrPt\ n111s W11d111\Stl<Ly to lead l.lw Colorado llot'.kies ovor the Monlrnal Fxpos 5-1. A day al'tnr Hockies manag­Pr .Jim I.Pyland confirnwd lw will rPtir«• following tlrn sna­son. Colorado dominated wilh llw long hall. Larry Walker hit liis :{:ith home run, going 2-for-:l lo raisP his lnaguo­ltiading hatting avPragn to 
.:{(18. 
IIPlton hit a solo l1011wr in tlw fourth off Dan Smith 14-81 and a lwo-ru 11 ct rivn in Urn sixth. giving him fivp multi­honrnr ganws this snason and snvnn in his c1u·ner. 
Introducing ... 

~s 
-------------3 20 
·-~-•-•.' •~••.,.c•.~: .:•· ·• ,,.~~=-~~, 
:, 

Jamey Wriglll (2-2l allowed one run and four hits in scvPn innings to win for the secon­tinrn in three decisions since he was recallnd from TriplP-A Colorado Springs on Aug. 2. 
Jerry Dipoto and Dave Vorns finished the six-hitter. Smith gave up all five runs and four hits in six innings. 
Mets 7, Giants 5 
For nearly live months, the New York Mets' relilwers car­ried Lim team. llcading down the strnlch run, it's tho bullpen that noods relief. 
Mike Piazza hit a three-run home run and Octavio Vote! won his sev(m t.h consecutive decision as tho Mets nearly blew a six-run lead before holding on to beat the San Francisco Giants 7-5 Wednesday for their 18th win in 27 games. 
Pat Mahomes and Dennis Cook gave up four runs in the eighth inning and the tying runs were on base before Armando Benitez got the final four outs for his 18th save in 23 chances. 
"They obviously have been throwing tentatively," Piazza said. "It's inevitable that this will happen at some point of the year. You just hope it's not at this time. We havn to weather the storm a bit." 
The Mets bullpen. which was sncond b<ist to Cincinnati in the NL for most of llw sea­son, is now Drtl1 in the league with a 3.85 EHA. 
The heavy workload early in the season appears to be catching up to the relievers. They have five losses in the last 14 games, after losing only five in the previous 63. 
"I was lost out there." said Mahomes, who allowed two walks. one hit and three runs without retiring a batter. "I didn't have any control of the ball. I guess it was my turn to be bad." 
While the bullpen didn't take the loss Wednesday, the Mets did lose one of their key relievers before the game. Turk Wendell will miss 4-7 days with a bruised knuckle on his right middle finger. 
The Mets, who began the day 3 1/2 games behind Atlanta in the NL East. go on the road for 13 of their next 16 games. New York remains 3 1/2 games in front of Cincinnati for the wild card. "We had a six-run lead and sprung a leak," manager Bobby Valentine said. 


Boxing /'I
·c::r ove 
Ping Pong 


1:· 
., 

.....,,;,.;;;;.;.;;;;;,;;;.;;;.;;.;..;;;;;......,....,.,.,,...,........~""'!"'·.--•-_-.•--·=··':c,;;...•r 
page 23 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Special to the Observer 
Notre Dame sophomore for­ward Troy Murphy has been named to the "Best of the Rest" list as the Atlanta Tipoff Club has announced its preseason candidates for the Naismith College Basketball Player of the Year Award. 
The Tipoff Club announced the top 10 vote-getters in its preseason vote by its board of selectors and 20 other players, including Murphy. were listed in the "Best of the Hest" cate­gory. 
Among the top 10 players were Big East Conference per­formers Erick Barkley of St. John's and Khalid El-Amin of Connecticut. Big East players in the "Best of the Hest" cate­gory were Kevin Freeman of Connecticut, Johnny Hemsley of Miami and Murphy. 
l\1urphy was the 1999 Big 
As you see it, is our two-party political system workine,? Want Reform'! Work for Reform! Then vote for Reform! Reform party seeking college volunteers. concerned voters, contributions, candidates, and the creation of an ND 011-1.:ampus organization. Your participation & suppo11 is vital for Reform to occur. f't,r dcwils crmrucr: N. W. Jndi<mcl Coo,-dinwor, 2/9-926-7576 
• 

Sttlfe Par(\' Clwimw11, 219-267-3434 or rmail: \'tTp@lwm•tmm·.m1t 
~new yo~mg adult Hip-Hop dance club 18 and ove'r. 
uroff-campus alternative for fun and entertainment. tJunkfood. non-alcoholic beverages, frozen drinks, pool, darts and other games. 
.'~· 

.Vts •You can party and have fun without booze Try it before you knork it. 
Open every wednesday -Saturday 6 pm until 
r the best in Hi1>-Hop, Retro, House, R&B, Line music Old School, Disro and Rock and Roll 
'ibe latest and hippest dance moves from some of the .J.DJ's in the midwest at the Friday and Saturday :!•@ · · night weekly dance parties 
icon Wednesday's and Thursday's. Show your 
talent and bring a friend. vaiJable for bands, DJ's, comedians, dance1-s and otber entertainers. 233-8505 for info. 
us mc:eting rooms for student organizatj .~b.tbs and social groups. . "'· · 
East rookie of the year follow­ing the 1998-99 season and led the Irish in scoring and rebounding at 19.2 points per game and 9.9 rebounds. Murphy scored 519 points in his rookie year to set the Irish freshmen record, previously held by Adrian Dantley with 511 in 1973-74. 
Murphy was named the Big East rookie of the week eight times in his freshman season­the second-highest mark in league history. He was the first freshman in Big East history to lead the league in rebounding with 10.3 boards in conference play. 
Murphy was invited to thti trials for the 1999 USA Basketball Junior World Championship Team. but was forced to withdraw from the team when he underwent her­nia surgery in July. Murphy has completnly recovered from that procedure. 

.. 
• 
student union 
HAPPENINii§ 
Every Thursday. a list of campus-wide events will appear in the Observer. This space is brought to 
you by the Student Union Executive Cabinet in an effort to keep you in the know. Use this as your 
resource for all campus happenings. 
STUDENT UNION BOARD www.nd.edu/-sub 
Movie of the Week: EdTV. 9/9. Thursday. Cushing Auditorium. 1030PM. Admission: $2 at the door. 9/10. Friday. Cushing Auditorium. 0800PM & 1030PM. 9/11. Saturday. Cushing Auditorium. 0800PM & 1030PM. 
Acousticafe. 9/9. Thursday. LaFortune Huddle. 0900PM-1200AM. 
Flix Tour (independent film series followed by Q&A with the director). 9/15. Wednesday. Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 0700PM . Admission: $2 at the door. 
..JUDICIAL COUNCIL 
Runoff Freshman Elections. 9/9. Thursday. Each dorm. Times vary by dorm. 
HPC [HALL PRE!filDENT!fi' CDUNCILJ 
Hall Dances. 9/10. Friday. Carroll Hall. 9/10. Friday. Walsh Hall. 9/11. Saturday. Lyons Hall. 9/11. Saturday. Lewis Hall . 


Thur~day, September 9, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Riley named Naismith award finalist 
Sptd~I 10 the Observer 
J1111ior Ht1lh Hiley. a 1999 lhird-lPam t\ssoriatnd Prnss /\11-/\nwrica s<dnclion and thn Big East 1>1•f'1111sivn Player of' tlw YPar a y1\ar ago, has lrnnn nanwd orw of 10 finalists for th1\ l'J 1JIJ-2000 Naisrnilh CollPg" Wonwn's Bask11lhall l'layPr ol' tlw Y1•ar Award. 
lhP award, which is pro­sPn1Pd hy tlw Allanla Tip-off Clllh nnd will lw ,rnnouncPd in Marl'h 2000. is llw most prns­ligious honor in l"ol1Pg11 has­knllmll. 
Thi• candidal11s wpn1 solnct­P<I by u vott! of' tlrn Board of' Snlnr.tors comprised ol' lnad­ing coll1!gP baskntball coach­ns, journalists and lrnsknt.ball a11alysts. 
HilPy Ind tlw Irish in scoring and n•bounding in hr1r sopho­morP snason as shn avnragnd I(di points and 8.4 rnbounds. l!Pr 68.:i finld goal p11rcnnt­ag.-, a NotrP lhtmn single-sua­son rPcord, rankNI hPr first nationally, as she becamo the firsl Irish player to load the all Division I playors in a sta­tisLical category. 
Aft11r just two soasons, Hiley is already Notre Dame's carenr blocked shots lnador with 172. llor 10 I during the I998-9') campaign also set an Irish singl11-season mark. 
Tim only unanimous first.­team all-Big East solection in '99, shn also was named a District I Kodak honorabl1i 111c11 tion so loct.ioll. 
Hilny was a membm· of the '<)<) World University Ganrns 'foam which captured the sil­ver nrnclal at this ynar's World University (iarnes competi­tion. She was thn third-lead­ing scorer with 10.3 ppg and snconcl -I e ad in g rebound er wilh 5.3 rpg on tlw 12-mem­bnr squad. It marked the sPc­oml stint for Hiley as a mem­ber of' one of' the USA Womnn's Basketball teams. Following her frnshman sea­son, she played on the 1998 USA Women's Select squad. 

IF YOU'RE AVEGAS SHOWGIR~. ;HEN YOll·R~ PROBABLY NOT A STUDENT,:/I 
j AND IF YOU'RE NOT ASTUDENT, THEN YOU CAN'T B~Y AT WWW.EDU.COM 
• . , .~, '.,.t 
Introducing edu.com, the first store on the web where only students can save up to 70% on name brand computers, software, textbooks, and more, every day. Tough luck Vanda. 
-edu. 
students get if' 
Chorney 
continued from page 28 
Arizona must climb much farther to win a bowl invita­tion. 
Why, one might ask, does this senselnss phenomenon occur? 
Two words: preseason rankings. 
Prnseason rankings am a function of' "•~xperts"' (which I lrnsitate to call them for lack of crndnntials) prognos­tications. Thny have littl1! factual basis. 
Sure, thn "oxpMts" consid­er starti~rs returning and quality of players. But how many limns do those sup­posod "experts" misevaluatn freshmen talent, undoresti­rnatn team cohesiveness or disregard potentially devas­tating injuries (such as lhe one to Miami's Najeh Davnnport)? 
Ilow many times do tlwse "experts" over-rank or under-rank? Dons anymrn still honestly believe Arizona deserved to be ranked No. 3 in the prnseason rankings'? 
Proseason rankings do lit­tle more than imbalance the playing lield. Imagine what it would be like to start a course lO0 points in thn hole. Now. imagine a profos­sor or "expert" decidns who gets the 100 points and who loses them. Doesn't. snem fair, does it'? 
A lot has been madn of' Florida State's strnak of fin­ishing the season in llrn top fivo. But consider that dur­

-
ing the last five yoars, they've averaged a prnsca­son ranking of' 2. Harnly do we see fivn undnfoated teams in tlw country. Thereforn, Florida State vir­tually is guarantnnd a top­fivn ranking oven ii' it loses one game. 
Furthermore, in the last live years, Florida Statn has rnwer finished higher than its prescason ranking. It senms that its "strnak" is just as much a product of' prognosticators' undying love for tlrnm as il is its liPld perl'ormanco. 
Contrast this to Notrn Danrn's prnsnason average ranking of 1:~ and we've already s111m an imbala11c1!. 
Whiln Notrn Dame, too, 
•
has not finished alwad of its prnseason ranking, wn cnr­tainly dmi'l havn a strnak or finishing in the top fivn. If' Notre Damn wern to linish with one loss (improbablnl. it would certainly 1wnd many tnams to lose to finish in tlw top fiv1~. 
Prnseason rankings taint college football rankings. 
llow can one evaluat<\ a team wi_thout having snrHl them for a fow wiicks'? 
One should not plac11 a team that continues to win by large margins behind a team that wins by tho same margins P.Vlln if' 01w lmlir.ves the latter team is a better team. 
Why doosn 't the NCAA realize this unfainrnss'? Why can'l pollst<'rs wait four or five weeks lo propnrly nvalu­atn t(iams and tlwn rank them accordingly" 
If the NCM dcddecl tu implnment a mandatory waiting period on polls, wn wouldn't havn this situation: threo teams with similar r.n~­dentials and vastly different chances al a titln. 

----~---------------------------------------------------~--------­
page 26 

The Observer . SPORTS 
Football 
continued from page 28 

Despite its confident outlook, No. 16 Notre Dame knows the challenge which Purdue poses, especially as the Irish come off of a bitter last-minute loss to the Wolverines. 
"I think we made some mis­takes that had we not made, we would have played a better game." said Notre Dame sec­ondary coach Lou West. "Our whole thing right now is to improve and not make the same mistakes [against Purdue]." 
West is in his first season as a coach for the Irish. after spending thf.' past four years as the defensive backfield coach at Virginia Tech. During his four years there, Virginia Tech made four bowl appearances. Last season, it was ranked fourth nationally in scoring defense and 11th in pass effi­ciency defense. West seeks to bring the same tough defense to the Irish secondary this sea­son. 
Brees holds Big Ten single­season records for touchdowns in a season with 39, total yards with 4,176, passing yards, pass completions and pass attempts. In addition, he holds the NCAA record for pass completions and pass attempts in a game. 
The Irish secondary will have It seems like he can put it right His top targets are Chris to contain Brees's passing on the money," said Jefferson. Daniels, who had eight recep­attack if it hopes to come home 
"It is going to be hard to break tions for 125 yards and one victorious Saturday. 
up passes. touchdown, Randall Lane and ln Purdue's season opener "He is really dangerous when Tim Stratton. 
last week against Central 
he scrambles outside the pock­This is the highest Purdue 
Florida, Brees tallied five pass­et," added Jefferson. "He can has been ranked when playinging touchdowns, went 27-for­
-
scramble and find wide the Irish since 1980, when a 
45 in passing, and had 277 
receivers wide open. Ile can No. 11 Irish squad defeated the 
yards. really hurt is if we let that hap­No. 9 Boilermakers 31-10 at "Drew Brees has a nice arm. pen." 
Notre Dame Stadium. 


-------, 
Thursday, September 9, 1999 
Please Recycle the OLseryer. 

·we Keep it Sianple as I • 2 • 3 

'l -\\ic -supply other <live -,hops lhro11ql1 0111 \\,1n·ho11._,. 
3 -\Iii· .,di ,Jc,u ll11011gh our wellsitc ( "'"" .div111g<k.,1-,., 0 111 , o, 1·011 (an hU)' dir·ect front our store in Nile-.. Ml ,11 ltu· -.a111c great warehouse prices. 
PRICE GUARANTEE • 
We \\/ill Beat Any Local Shop!i Price + A Free Gift 
GREAT LAKES DIVING CENTERS 
:! /Ii f.". 'f 11.1 

.\ IIIHH'S 11.IIIEIIOLSE s·m1tt: ',, 
6 16-683-4502 


" 
~he Sociel'I /orfiuman ReJource manatJemenl &the manatJemenl Club 
would &ke lo invite ever'lone lo allenJ lhe ... 
Donnelly Lecture Series in Participatory Management 
**** 

Ken Schmidt of Harley-Davidson 
"The Rise and Fall and Rise ~fHarley-Davidson: The Power of Employee Empowerment" 
**** 

Friday, September 10 
12:00 -1:15 p.m. 
Jordan Auditorium College of Business Administration 
.... • 
Thursday, Seprember 9, 1999 The Observer . TODAY page 27 
-
FOURTH AND INCHES 

Fox TROT /DILBERT HAS MOVED TO THE VIEWPOINT PAGES.) 
HEY, A88T­ MY NAME'S  ADELLE?...  AOR1ENNE ?... AGATliA?..•  
Look'1N' Gooo.  NoT A88Y,  ALEY.1S ?...  ALLISON?... AMANDA:>. .  
\  STEVE.  ANASTASIA? ... ANGELICA? ...  
I  ANN?... ANNA?.., ANNE?...  
ASHLE'I' ?,.. AV1>RE"Y ?...  
BARSARA?.. 8ECk,-:i.. .  
BETH?•.. BETHANY~..  
\  

CROSSWORD­
ACROSS 
1 Gallagher of "Millennium" a Painter's plaster 11 Rack item, for short 14 Java waft 15 King known as ''The Short" 1e Part of E.T.A.: Abbr. 11 "Write!" 111 • Bravo" (1959 film) 20 Raymond of "Dr. Kildare" 21 Yuletide landing site 23 Absorbed, as a cost 24 Hill count in Roma 21 Looped sofa fabric 
28 30 
32 33 35 
37 
39 
40 
41 
42 
44 
48 
Zilch 
Make a shambles of Son of Seth Raven's call Nice notions "Calll" Like a bubble 
bath Spectacle Jai Compound 
present in beer 
Put out of business Littl a on as 
so"_ Doona" 52 Unlock, in verse 53 Name on a flip-
top box 55 Maltreat 57 welder 58 "Stop by!" 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


e1 Opposite of paleo­62 "... down and _go!" 63 la Cite (Paris site) 
64 People at People, tor short 
65 Aired again 
66 Corvair critic 
DOWN 
1 Badlamite 2 Slips on a slip? 3 Gave an 
unwelcome poke 4 Woodstock gear 5 Fingers a Valedictorian's pride: Abbr. 1 Sniggler's quarry s Bryce Canyon formations a Chinese leader? 
Puzzle by M. Francis Vuolo 
10  those  
11  things Tennis's  29  Milk of magnesia target  
Conchita  31  Emerald Isle, in  
12  Short vocal  verse  
solos  34  Winnabagos, for  
13  Searches  short  
10  blindly One way to see  36 37  Horse's hue Llamas' cousins  
22  Succumbs to  36  Pate Sampras,  
stage fright,  often  
maybe  39  Cast aspersions  
25  Overhead  on  
transport  41  Esoteric  
26  Acquires a liking  43  Beowulf, to  
for  Grendel  

TOM KEELEY 

A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD JEFF BEAM 
BILL AMEND 
l D1Dr•fT WANT To SUMMER VACA· ASIC WHY You HAD A T10N W~EAICS '"8AQY NAMES'• Book HA'l/oc W1TH Ml 
IN ~OU~ 8Ac~PAC~. MEMoRY. 
\ 


beam,1@nd.edu 
45 46 47 49  Quartered Positive aspect Show instability Deep sleep  54 56 59  Sprinter's assignment Wallace of Reader's Digest N.Y.C. subway irftts.  
51  Agile Ailey  eo  loooong wait  

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (951!: per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
HOROSCOPE 
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1999 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Michael Keaton, Hugh Grant, Otis Redding, Billy Preston, Angela Cartwright, Robert Desiderio 
Happy Birthday: All your hard work and long hours are going to pay off this year. You have great vision and can easily detect what you will get in return for anything you do. This is not a year to waste time with those who can't make up their minds. Your attitude should be to take your own initiative and do whatever is necessary to reach your goals. Your numbers: 2, 15, 2.1, 2.6, 32, 44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Plan a trip to cottage country. You need a break, and time to relax with the ones you love. Romance will develop if you are receptive to the advances being made. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Do not overspend on investments that entail other people. Extravagance is likely when dealing with children or friends. Don"t lend or borrow today, and take care of pressing legal matters. 00000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Emo­tional blow-ups regarding your mate are evident. Try to be patient with those you love. You can sidestep a lot of problems if you refuse to let others goad you into debates. 00 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Examine your situation and look for solutions. It is best not to let others know the trouble your relationship is experiencing. Sudden changes con­cerning your partner are evident. 
0000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Get into the swing of things. If you are going to attend group meetings, be sure to take a position of leadership. Alter all, that is where you belong, isn't it? You 
EUGENIA LAST 
know thal others will follow you. 
000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don"t spend moner you don't have. You'll hJve troubk understanding your mate's behavior. List<,n to what he or she has to sa); but back off if you feel that the information you receive isn't credible. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Com­munication will be your forte today_ Your persistent, persuasive manner will help you talk others into joining your cause. Mix travel, education and entertainment 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23•Nov. 21l: Moner-making opportunities will unfold, bul first you must terminate projects that have been going nowh,,re. Take a long look al the pos­sibilities before you make your move. 
0000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may be confused with the reac­tion you are getting from your mate. Don't let your personal life interfere with rour professional goals. You have too much to do. 00 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Plan your actions carefully. You can make career changes that will up your income and improve your life Lasting friendships and relationships will unfold through work. 00000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Children will play a major role in your ltfe today. Your cr,•ative ability will be appreciatl•d. Show your work ,.. to those i11d1v1duals who may be interested in lwlping you exploit your talent.OOO 
PISCES (Feb. l'l-March 20): Expect setbacks in your plans. Try to ,·isit family nu·mbcrs who need lo talk. You can help with thl'ir pmblems if you are willing to listen. 000 

Birthday Baby: Your independent nature will be the secret t,, your success. You will face issues head-on ,md will find those unwilling to boldly move for­ward weak and ni no use to you. You are hen' In Jccomplish your dreams, 
...

hopes and wishes, (Need advice? Check out Eugl•nia"s Web sites al astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
({:J J9Q9 Unin•rsal Pn•ss Sy11d1(t1ll' 
---------------------------------~--------~------------------------------­
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to recejve The Observer in your home. 
Notre Dame, IN  46556  
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year  
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester  •  
Name _______________________ Address ___________________ City ________ State ____ Zip______  •  


-Riley's Records 
Ruth Riley earns honors as a 
finalist in the Naismith College Basketball Player of the Year award. 
PORTS 
page 25 


O
THE BSERVER Thursday, September 9, 1999
page 28 
How do 
they rank? 
Herc is a slory of lhree teams. We'll call them Team A, Team B and Team C. 
Team A wins its first game in relatively easy fashion. The game was 
played at Brian Churney home against a 
much On the Hot weaker Corner opponent. The next week, it loses a very close gam~ filled wilh questionable calls. It loses the game on the road against a team ranked much higher. So after two weeks, the Team A is 1-1 Team B plays a very good opponent in its first game and is beaten badly. Although ranked higher than its oppo­nent. Team B has to play on the road. At one point, Team Bis behind by 41 points. The next week, Team B plays a much lower-ranked team. albeit on the road. ln fact. the opponent is similar to Team A's first week oppo­nent. Team B struggles with this team and wins the game with three late touchdowns. Team B too is 1-1 Team C plays a team slight­ly lower than itself in the rankings. Team C plays at home and loses fairly convinc­ingly. Team C only has one game. Team C is 0-1. So we have three teams, all with one loss, two of which have -0ne win each. All of their stories are fairly similar. They all have lost to a top 10 team, and the two with wins have beaten schools 
whose basketball teams are tougher than their football teams. 
A reading of the three team's scenarios would lead one to believe that Team A 
. should be slightly higher rart'ked than the other two teams. 

At the very least, the teams .... should be ranked closely to one another. 
However, in reality, the actual position of our three teams is much different. 

In reality Team A (our beloved Notre Dame) is ranked below Team B (Arizona! in one poll and below Team C (Ohio State) in both polls. What's more, while Ohio State remains in the middle of the race for BCS bowls and waits for the few teams ahead of them to slip up once, Notre Dame and 
... 
see CHURNEY/page 25 
FOOTBALL 
Secondary looks to stifle Boilermakers 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Assiscam Sports Edirnr 
With any luck of lhe Irish and a little help from the Notre Dame secondary, the breeze will not be blowing in Purdue's favor this Saturday. 
The Purdue Boilermakers head into their contest against. the Irish behind the strong arm of junior quarterback Drnw Hrees. The Boilermakers averaged nearly double the yards in passing in 1998 that the Irish did, with 32:1.7 yards per game compared to Notre Dame's 169.9 yards. 
But Notre Dame senior A'Jani Sanders and the rest of the defensive backfield plan to put the clamp down on Purdue's aerial strike. The Irish are experienced in the secondary, with three seniors in Sanders, Deveron Harper and Deke Cooper, who are joined by sophomore Clifford Jefferson. 
"I feel pretty confident," said Sanders. "I just need to get some interceptions to go along with my hits." 
Sanders, a strong safety, leads the Irish in tackles on the season with 17 in two games against Kansas and Michigan. Sanders also topped the Irish in interceptions last season with three. Both of these marks give him confi­dence heading into a game against No. 21 Purdue and a quarterback who holds numer­ous Big Ten and NCAA records. 
Harper, a cornerback, is the most expP-rienced returning defensive back for the Irish, with 19 career starts and appearances in 33 games. He sparked Notre Dame in its 48­l 3 victory over Kansas. return­ing an interception 22 yards for an Irish touchdown. 
Harper is also ranked 13th among cornerbacks this year by Lindy's. 
"This is an opportunity, a game you like to play and try to win," said Harper. 
Cooper, a free safety, is the lop returning Irish tackler, and forced three fumbles by oppo­nents last season. One of those fumbles came against Purdue in a 31-30 Irish victory. 
Cooper is a highly touted player, named honorable men­tion All-American by Street and Smith's and Walter Camp Football Foundation. 
Cornerback Clifford Jefferson is a quickly-rising player, with 16 tackles in his first two college starts N one behind Sanders for the team lead. 
He replaced Brock Williams in the starting lineup after Williams was suspended for the season. Jefferson seeks to become a big-play athlete this season. 
"It's going to be a pretty hard game going against someone who throws the ball 60 or 70 times a game," said Jefferson. "But it is also a sec­ondary's dream because of the opportunity to get intercep­tions and run them back. My main goal is to get at least two interceptions." 
see FOOTBALL/page 26 

WOMEN'S GOLF 
Golfers tee off in first conference match-up 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
Spans Writer 
Saint Mary's golf team tees off for the first conference meet of its season at 1 p.m. on Sept. 11, against Alma, Hope, Olivet, Kalamazoo, Albion, Defiance, Adrian and Calvin Colleges. 
Led by second-year Head Coach Theresa Pekarek, the Belles intend to make this a successful meet. 
"They play well together as a learn," Pekarek said. "They work together well and have great enthusiasm." 
The meet is at Pine River County Club -Alma College's home course. With only one senior, Heather Pedraza, on I.he roster this year, thfl BP.lies are a young team. The only other returning players are sopho­more Mary Claire Hathaway and junior captain Kyle Veltri. 
The rest of the team is com­posed of rookies including junior Julie Glud and Natalie Cook. Five freshmen finish off the team: Rachel Benkert, Heather Goodrich, Kara Harms, Molly Lee and Kristie Maurer. 
Hathaway, Pedraza and Veltri turned in very strong scores last season, leading the Belles to a fourth-place finish in the MIAA behind Hope, Albion and Defiance. Among the four teams there was only a 461-point difference, which would-translate a lead between first-place Hope College and fourth place Saint Mary's of 
roughly one-and-a-half meet scores. 
"Regardless of the closeness in the stats, we are a very com­petitive team to begin with," Veltri said. "Our goal is to remain in the top four. if not the top two this season. We've worked very hard to better our game. I think that we'll have a very competitive season." 
In last year's Pine River Golf Club meet, the Belles came in fourth. Coach Pekarek has not released the names of the six golfers who would be traveling to the meet. She states, howev­er, that her three returning players, Hathaway, Pedraza and Veltri, are very good play­ers and will be looked upon for large contributors. 
Pekarek also said that Cook, a transfer student from Taylor University, will contribute heavily this year. 
"Natalie will be a real asset this season," Pekarek said. "Freshmen Heather Goodrich and Molly Lee are good players who will grow with the team." 
Last week the Belles had a non-conference meet with Tri­State at Brookwood Golf Course. All of the golfers had the opportunity to compete, and the new golfers had a chance to experience collegiate golf competition before a con­ference moAt. 
The Belles are the only team in the conference to have such a meet. and Pekarek sees it as an advantage. 
"We'll fare pretty well [next week]." said Pekarek. 
-
at St. John's 

at Purdue Volleyball at Ohio Western 
SPORTS ~~ Sarnrday, 2:30 p.m. ~ Sunday, 1 p.m. $ Friday, 3:30 p.m. 
ATA ­
Volleyball vs. Kentucky Cross Counrry at Valparaiso 
at Pinsburgh 
Saturday, 2 p.m. Saturday, lOa.m
Saturday, 1 p.m. 
GLANCE tfi • • 








