
Student Body Elections 
Endorsement 
Friday

Prepare for Monday's student body president elec­
Find out which ticket The Observer 
tions by reading The Observers reviews of the 
endorses and why. 
FEBRUARY 5, 

eleven tickets running. Pullout 
Viewpoint• 10 
1999 
THE 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXXII NO. 83 WWW. ND.EDU/-OBSERVER 
SAINT MARV'S STUDENT GOVERNMENT faECT!ONS 
Midden/Little ticket captures SMC presidency 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE study day before finals each Lorraine Kitchner to discuss N~Wrim semester, a pep rally for Saint the feasibility of the study day, Mary's Pride Day. establishing and the next step will be to 
Vision was the key element an alumnae mentoring pro­formulate a proposal for the that allowed the Midden/Little gram and creating the position faculty, Midden explained. licket to emerge victorious in of technology commissioner for "We expect to meet our the Saint Mary's student body the Board of Governance, will greatest opposition there, but president/vice president elec­get right to work, according to we do not foresee anything too tions Wednesday night, Little. major," Midden said. according to student body The team's first objective will Midden and Little's proposal president-elect Nancy Midden. be draft a proposal for the differs from those of the past 
"Our vision wus what gave us study day. because it states the need for the extra edge," one study day rather Midden said. "I've than two, which they been saying it 
think makes their
'WEWANT TO THANK

throughout the cam• plan feasible. paign, and J'm going THE STUDENTS AND Additionally, the plan to continue to say it. FACULIT FOR COMING OUT would allow Madeleva because it's what we Hall to be open for believe." TO VOTE. WE ARE EXTREME-use for review ses• 
The Midden/Little LY HONORED AND EXCITED sions for students on ticket won the elcc­the study day. 
TO BEGIN OUR WORK,'
li on with relative The pair is also 
case. securing 61.6 soliciting applicants percent of the popular NANCY MIDDEN for next year's Board vote. Their only com­of Governance. next three weeks, said Midden. pleased with. Typical voter 
S1VDENT BODY PRESIDENT-ELECT "We are going to
petition. the "We want to thank the stu­turnout for Saint Mary's is llorvath/Cuerreso wait until after class dents and faculty for coming between 30 and 40 percent. ticket. received 35.2 percent of "Our next move will be to elections are over so that we out to vote," said Midden. "We Hefferman said. the vote, while 3.3 percent of work on the study day. We can encourage some new peo­are extremely honored and "It's relatively high com­voters abstained. according to want to get a jump start on ple to get involved," said Little. excited to begin our work." pared to other schools." Bridget Ileffcrman, elections that before the year is out," Signs with information for Thirty-seven percent of stu­Hefferman said. "This year's C(Jmmissioner. Little said. potential applicants will be dents turned out for the vote. a percentages are average for 
Midden and Little. whose Midden and Little have available in residence halls percentage that Hefferman us. We are very pleased with platform features initiating a already met with registrar and in campus lounges in the and election workers were the turnout." 

DECISIONS IN LONDON 



Today, Notre Dame's Board of Trustees will meet in London where it is anticipated they will vore on whether the University should pursue member­shif in rhe Big Ten. The board also wil deliberate on whether to revise the University's non-discrimination clause to include sexual orientation. 
A press conference to reveal their decisions on Big Ten membership has been tentatively scheduled for 11 a.m. EST 
See Monday's edition of The Observer for complete coverage of che board's decisions. 
Open for business, soon 

The Observer/ Pete, RichardsonWorkers began moving into the new Eck Center on Thursday. The new structure will house the Hammes Bookstore as well 
as an alumni center, and has planned a grand opening for Feb. 19. 

page 2 
¦ INSIDE COLUMN 
A Very Fine Line 
Judging by the various reactions I received from my last column, I left much confusion as to my feelings concerning the rich. Some won­dered how I could insult snotty rich students one week and defend the rich the next time Dustin P. Ferrell around. One respondent Assistant Viewpoint Ediror to my article had the belief that I was using Catholic Social Teaching and even defining it. A very fine line exists in this debate, and I believe I am one of few who have acknowledged it as such. 
To explain my argument more clearly, I'll define my point from last week: Obviously, the rich do have an obligation to the poor. However. this does not excuse nor does it justi­fy the endless attempts by many to demonize the rich without proper knowledge of other important considerations. It's as simple as that -yet I've received undue criticism from many anytime Jquestion this blatant generalization. 
My point is, folks, that the rich by and large do earn their money -like it or not. Are many of our CEOs. athletes and professionals over­paid? Of course they are. But as stockholders, fans and citizens we often have more control over this situation than we care to admit. So if an individual earns substantial wealth, have they taken something away from the poor? Have they guaranteed the poverty of a billion persons? No. In many cases, they've actually bettered the positions of the poor. 
No better example exists today than the United States. Our definition of "poor" includes those with many luxuries unheard of for the "poor" of other countries. The economic pros­perity of our nation explains this situation. Yet we still have many homeless, and unfortunate­ly this is also explained by our current system. This is where the obligation to help others applies, and precisely where I believe we are called to act. 
The fine line I speak of makes these views appear contradictory to some, which is utter nonsense. Why can the rich not realize their moral obligation while still enjoying the fruits of their labors? Most of them have, after all, earned this right, a right proven through histo­ry and logic if not through Catholic teaching. 
And here is where many miss the mark ­assuming guilt until proven otherwise by tak­ing things out of context. Will the Catholic Church tell me that accumulating wealth is evil without considering several important factors? l challenge any and all self-appointed "repre­sentatives" of the Church to enlighten me on this matter. 
You see, I've made the decision to convert to Catholicism based on many reasons. Quite ironically, one of them was my great admira­tion of the Catholic Social Teaching principles, on which I received a basic introduction last year in a theology course. My instructor, far from a Reaganite, provided us with an ample study ofoption for the poor, among other things. She also gave us an overall context on the implications of these works, and of the teachings of Jesus. I came away from this course with a much better perspective on my obligation to help others. 
I have never presented myself as an expert on Catholic Social Teaching, nor did I attempt to explain it in my past article. I have taken from various sources, among them the irrefutable facts of economics. Those who take issue with me ought to supplement their read­ing with William F. Buckley and Edmund Burke, (and perhaps P.J. O'Rourke). And I will stand by my arguments, whether or not they hold to anyone's interpretation of Catholic teaching. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

¦ TooAv's STAFF 
News Scene Derek Bercher Loubel Cruz Noreen Gillespie 
Graphics 
Kate Steer Joe Mueller 

Sports Production 

Mike Connolly 

Noah Amsceder 
Viewpoint 

Lab Tech 
Colleen Gaughen Joe Stark 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except dunng exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhc Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc rcscrv,d. 
The Observer• INSIDE Friday, February 5, 1999 






utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Bill to include homosexuality in California education code 
LONG BEACH, Calif. 
AB-222 supporters will be lobbying 
California assemblywoman Sheila assembly members in Sacramento on Kuehl of Santa Monica is reintroduc­March 22. This will be the fourth ing a piece of legislation that aims to annual Youth Lobby Day. protect the rights of students in Students will meet with state sena­California public schools. tors and assembly members to urge 
The bill, AB-222, aims to include the passing of the bill. sexual orientation in the California The Youth Lobby Day is organized Education Code. The code presently by community and church groups. states that every student has the right The Universal Fellowship f'or to educational opportunity regardless Metropolitan Community Churches in 
these students have equal access to
of race, creed, color, national origin, Los Angeles was identified as one of
education," Kuehl said in a press
sex or economic status. the leading organizers. 
release. "You can't concentrate, you
Kuehl's bill is being introduced for The CSULB Gay, Lesbian and Bi­
can't learn, and you an never reach
the third time. Kuehl promised to Sexual Resource Center has partici­
your full potential if you 're always
reintroduce the bill after it was pated in the Youth Lobby Day in past
frightened and made to feel
defeated in the 1997-1998 assembly years. Several Long Beach students
ashamed."

session. made the trip last year. 
A national survey in 1998 found a
Governor Gray Davis said that he "We get to meet lots of people."
34 percent increase in violence
would sign the bill into law, if it ever said Karla Saldaa. GLBRC program
against homosexuals. The same sur­
reached his desk. according to a coordinator. "We get a chance to talk 
vey also reported an increase in vio­
press release from Kuehl's office. to the assembly members and tell
lence against people thought to be
"This bill is about making certain them what we need." 
gay. 
¦ Omo STATE UNIVERSITY Bill limits student expression 

COLUMBUS, Ohio 
Crusading against what one called "the McCarthyism of the left," three witnesses at Tuesday evening's meet­ing of the Ohio House Education Committee went to bat for a House bill that would limit the restriction of stu­dent expression at Ohio's public colleges and universi­ties. Some of these institutions, including Ohio State, say the bill would not change their policies much because it only assures freedom of expression already protected by the First Amendment. But Rep. Bill Schuck, R­Columbus, who introduced the bill, testified that the action is primarily a reaction to university speech codes that "punish speech that is deemed to be 'offensive' or not 'politically correct."' In addition, Jonathon Archey, Schuck's legislative aid, said the bill would allow stu­dents to challenge the legality of school speech codes before they were prosecuted for something they said. 
¦ UNIVERSITY Of CONNECTICUT New logo resembles Nazi symbol 

STORRS, Conn. 
UConn administrators have a new criticism to add to its laundry list surrounding the new school logo -some say it looks like a Nazi symbol. First, Anita Bologna, a 1969 UConn alumni, went to last week's Undergraduate Student Government meeting with a petition against the new logo, requesting it revert to back to the original state seal. "I grad­uated from the University of Connecticut, not the University of Oak," was her now famous quotation. Now, Michael Michalczyk, a Glastonbury resident and former art history professor at UConn-Waterbury in 1972, has made the con­nection that the logo bears a resemblance to the symbol used in the shield of the 16th Reichsfuher division of the S.S. of the Panzergrenadiers, a German mobile warfare unit dur­ing World War II. He said while flipping through "Scale Aircraft Modeling" magazine's Winter 1997 edition, his eyes rested on an article titled "German Armor Dioramas." 
¦ MtcHmAN STATf. UNIVERSITY Bar will lose liscense, pay heavy fine 
EAST LANSING, Mich. 
Rick's American Cafe will lose its liquor license for 30 days starting Sunday and will have to pay $50,000 for violating Michigan's liquor laws in conjunction with the Nov. 5 drinking death of Bradley McCue, Michigan Attorney General Jennifer Granholm announced Wednesday. McCue, a parks and recreation junior, died of acute alcohol poisoning after drinking 24 shots at Rick's on his 21st birthday. The conditions are part of an agreement reached Friday between Rick's, 224 Abbott Road, and the Michigan Liquor Control Commission. "I think it was in everyone's best interest (to negotiate an agreement)." said Assistant Attorney General Irene Mead, who handled the case. "We could've gone through a hearing." John Doyle, the attorney for Rick's, agreed a hearing would have had only negative effects. "It's such a tragic situation," Doyle said. 
¦ UNIVERSlTY OF CtU.IFORNIA-BEREKLEY Law professor calls lawsuit "novel" 
BERKELEY. Calif. 
By accusing UC Berkeley of "discrimination" and attack­ing its use of standardized test scores, the civil rights groups who sued the university this week are trying a new legal tactic to rescind the ban on affirmative action, according to civil rights attorneys. The suit, filed in U.S. District Court on Tuesday by an alliance of civil rights groups and minority students, alleges that 750 black. Latino and Filipino students who had 4.0 GPAs were rejected by the university because it placed too much weight on SAT and Advanced Placement test scores. "I think it's going to be an interesting and novel lawsuit," said Boalt law professor Rachel Moran, a member of the faculty diversity task force. "It's novel because it really is treading on ground we haven't had to walk on. Now, in the absence of affirmative action, the battles over what constitutes dis­crimination are going to intensify." 
¦ Soun, BEND WEATHER ¦ NATIONAL WEATHER 
S Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather• forecast for daytime conditions and hi temperatures 

The AccuWeather"' forecast for noon, Friday, Feb. 5. 20s Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
80s FRONTS: 

,,..,... ---~ 
O 1999 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STArlONAHY 
®.......© . ~ t~~I ~ IP/l [::::::J ~) ~W,½ 4i£fu. 
High low Show.ra Rain T1torma FlurrlH Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Viii A$JOCl•t1'd Pre:m 

Atlanta 36 62 Dallas 49 70 Miami 64 79 Baltimore 31 47 Denver 28 47 Minneapolis 9 39 Boston 33 41 Hartford 28 37 New York 34 41 Cleveland 22 38 Indianapolis 21 45 San Diego 52 59 Chicago 20 43 Madison 21 39 Santa Fe 29 49 

Friday, February 5, 1999 
The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Profs: Democracy on the rise 
By SCOTT FORD 
New• Writer 
Many of the UniversiLy's 

strongest Latin American 
scholars came together on 
Thursdav afternoon to evalu­
ate the work of professor Scott 
Mainwaring, which addresses 
democratization in Latin 
America. 
"Firsl, patent authoritarian 

regimes usccJ to dominate in 
Lalin America have now 
almost disappeared (and] the 
number or democratic regimes 
has risen a lot since 1978," 
Mainwaring explained. 
Mainwaring, director of 

Notre Dame's Kellogg Institute 
and professor of government. 
used tho session to outline his 
two main arguments of his 
papnr, "Democratic 
Survivability in Latin 
Amorica." 
After delineating a rise in 

domocracy. Mainwaring 
moved to the second aspect of 
his argument and sought to 
days of its authoritarian cal reasons why a surprising
explain the causal factors of 
regime. As an undergraduate, number of now democracies 
Lhe trend toward democratiza­
Mainwaring's interests in have survived in Latin 
tion in Lalin American coun­
Latin American politics were America since 1978,"
tries. Mainwaring focused on 
stimulatc<l by a Notre Dame Coppedge said. 
the social, economic and polit• 
alumnus. Coppedge went on to label
ical modernization that took 
The goal of the forum was to such discussion forums "stim­
place from 1945 to 1980 in 
provide an intellectual evalua­ulating and fun" and that in 
Latin America as the impetus 
tion of the paper and stimulate the end the participants came
for democratization. 
discussion on the topic. Other to a "richer and original
When asked what stimulat­

roundtable participants were understanding of some the 
ed his research in tho topic, 
professors Robert Fishman, reasons of this success." 
Mainwaring replied that he 
Guillermo O'Donnell and Most of the debate was relat­
had been pursuing "intellectu­
Michael Coppedge. The three ed to the theoretical, quantita­
al and normative" issues sur­
professors evaluated tive classification of democra­
rounding Latin American poli­
Mainwaring's work and then cy. In order to employ a level 
tics his whole career. 
questioned the author on spe­of statistical analysis to the 
Mainwaring spent his senior 
cific aspects of the research. research, Mainwaring classi­
yr.ar in high school in 
"It was an interesting analy­fied various levels of democra­
Argentina during the waning 
sis of some large scale, histori-cy and "semi-democracies." 


Grants honor pair of ND peace scholars 
Special to The Observer 
Two political scientists at Notre Dame have received research grants totaling $80,000 from the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation and the United States Institute of Peace to study creative measures for punishing violators of interna­tional law. 
George Lopez, professor of government and international studies, and David Cortright, visiting fellow in the University's Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. plan to produce scholarly and policy articles and a book on what have been called "smart sanctions," which included measures such as freezing assets, comprehensive approaches to arms embargoes, restrictions on international 
travel. and bans on participa­
tion in international activities. 
Lopez and Cortright believe the international community has devoted inadequate attr,n­tion to smart sanctions, d(ispite the fact that they have been imposed with increasing fre­quency in recent years. 
"While we don't think smart sanctions are a magic bullet for dealing with violators of inter­national law," Lopez said, "our earlier work has shown that when strategically combined, such measures may provr, to be more effective than general trade sanctions ror coercing compliance with U.N. objec­tives. They also are more likely to minimize unintended nega­tive consequences for innocent citizens and to gain the support of a broad number of member states." 




is now accepting applications for the
THE 


1999-2000 

General Board 
BSE 
Any full-time undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. Please submit a three-page statement ofintent with a resume to Michelle Krupa by Wednesday, Feb. 10, at 5 p. m. For questions about the application process or for more information about any position, call The Observer at 631-4542 or 631-5323. 
NEWS EDITOR 
Applicants shoulJ have news reporting, writing and editing skills. The News Editor man­:11-;es a staff of cdiwrs and reporters, gcrn:rates story and series ideas and is responsible for rl,r.: co11rcnt of rhc news secrion each day. 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR 
Applicanrs should have editorial, writing and editing skills and an ability ro deal with the puhlic. The Viewpoint Editor manages a staff of copy and layout editors and columnists and decides what letters will run each day. 

SPORTS EDITOR 
Applica111s should have sports reporting, writing and editing skills. The Sports Editor manages a staff of l'ditors and rt'porrcrs, genera res story ideas and special sections. arranges travd accommodations for reporting trips and is responsible for the content of the sports section each day. 
SCENE EDITOR Applicants should have feature~ writing and editing experience. The Scene Editor man­:iges editors, reporters and columnists, generates story idcas, and is responsible for the con­rcnr of the Scene pages each day. 

PHOTO EDITOR 
Applicants should have photography and developing experience. The Photo Editor man­ages a st:1ff of phorographers and lah technicians and must work closely with News, Sports and Accent <lepartmenr editors in assigning photographs. 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR Any full-time undergraduate student at Saint Mary's is encourag,·d to apply. The editor manages Saint Mary's department heads, coordinates coverage wirh Notre Dame staff, gencrares story ideas on the Sainr Mary's campus and is responsible for the Observer office a1 Saine Mary's. 
ADVERTISING MANAGER 
Applicants should be business majors with management and sales skills. The Advertising Manager oversees an assistant and a staff of account executives and is responsible for gen­erating advertising revenue. 
AD DESIGN MANAGER 
Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge of QuarkXpress, Aldus Freehand and Adobe Photoshop. The Ad Design Manager oversees a staff of designers, works closely with advertising and marketing dep:irtments and is responsible for the design and layout of advertisements. 
SYSTEMS MANAGER 
Applicants should have solid M:icintosh computer experience and knowledge of computer networking. The Systems M:111agcr mainrains and updates the Macinwsh network and printers and is responsible for training the entire Observer staff on the use of the system. 

CONTROLLER 

Applicant must he a sophomore or junior majoring in accounting or finance at Norre Dame or Saint Mary's. The Controller is responsible for preparing The Observer's operat­ing budget and raxes, accounts payable, cost-tracking and other transaction duties. 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR Applicant must be familiar with building and maintaining a World Wide Weh sire. The Web Administrator is responsible for working wirh the editorial dcpartmenrs of The Observer in order ro update and archive the content of the site each Jay. The Weh Administrator also must be able ro expand the capabilities of rhe site. 
GRAPHICS EDITOR 
Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and a working knowledge of Free Hand and/or Adohe lllustraror. The Graphics Editor oversees a sraff of designers and must workk closely with News, Sports and Scene ro march top-quality graphics wirh the content ofeach day's newspaper. 

page 4 The Observer • NEWS Friday, February 5, 1999 


Clinton targets alien species 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Troublesome alien species such as the Chinese mitten crab and the voracious Asian long­horned beetle are costing Americans tens of billions of dol­lars and threatening entire ecosystems. President Clinton on Wednesday promised a govern­ment counteroffensive. 
Clinton issued an executive order to expand federal efforts to combat the growing problems created by the quiet influx of for­eign plants and animals into this country. 
Three senior administration officials. who will head a new interagency Invasive Species Council. sought to draw atten­tion to the magnitude of the problem with a news conference at the National Geographic Society museum. 
"There is no question that we are being invaded by alien species.... We could call this order the 'X-Files' order," said Commerce Undersecretary James Baker. 
"The costs to habitat and the economy are racing out of con­trol," added Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt. 
Three years ago, Congress passed a law requiring the gov­ernment to address the issue of non-native species, but the prob­lem has only become worse, ecologists say. 
"There are thousands of alien 

FTERNATIONAL WORKING OPPORTUNITY 
species established in the United States. No one really knows the exact count. And (the number) is rapidly growing," said Harvard biologist Edward Wilson, a lead­ing expert on invasive animal and plant species. 
Wilson showed slides of a "rogue's gallery" of alien preda­tors, including the leafy spurge, a weed from Eurasia that now plagues 3 million acres of range­land across the West, and Europe's green crab, which threatens native shellfish in the San Francisco Bay and New England. 
The president's executive order directs the Departments of Agriculture, Interior and Commerce, the Environmental Protection Agency and the U.S. Coast Guard to coordinate better the efforts against invading species. And it calls on the new council to develop an alien species management plan within 18 months to blunt the econom­ic, ecological and health impacts of these predators. 
Agriculture Secretary Dan Glickman promised "a unified, all-out battle against unwanted plants and animal pests." 
But senior administration offi­cials acknowledged that the task will be difficult and -in the end -may succeed only through greater international coopera­tion. 
The difficulties are many. the officials acknowledged. For example, last month the 

RECRUITING DATES: February 25 & 26, 1999 at Career and Placement Services. Open to all majors. SIGN UPS START FEBRUARY 1st. 
UO_l1VJNJ7, fl1l.J(]) '}JJ )OljO'J!{Jo n,jJQ '.131113:) 3JJll0SJ'i/, S, 113Ui0()1, 'Ull'3j; S2Jl~.J3!, 
y,',[ 1SJ.1dJ 'yJVOfb f:.JoSl<l.y',f yl)v•}£ iu, is ''}1JU3J-CS'fil!J 'n;ads,J'ij, l:9 ya,osuods 
pap!"OJd aq II!"' ~aOeJa"ag 6,:IIS-1 '!l Jai~!oaa 
aunµo,1ei 'ON .-111111",.,m t,; •qa,1 
111 ·qa,1 91 ·qa,1 

9fH i!) J<ll~!halJ 6-9 
l:i:JO 91 'Q.l,J 

SSVJ:J IAfi) 
'­

:JOop a111 IP U<llfPI ~uon 
J).JP ,~nr z-z, 111 ·qa,1 
.... 

HJ¥11-1 Jl-ll JO ~lJIVJ,JV 
I.IJ!M l{JUOl,,J JJV31-f Ul!:l!Jawy a1vJqa133 
Celebrate American Hearl nonth with 
AffAII!~ Of Tnl'. 11rAIU 
Feb. II & 12 


reb. 9.
~:. 

feb. 14 ;~~ R~RC 
.lu.o;I d_ nalion.o; taken al the door. <irJt1 givcawaya.! 
CrFI(Cfass r-<t­
fe.b. 16 or 23 6-9 't, J ll~llC 
Regi.o;ler @ HI 

rBfootfPressure ·. dny of cla~i, feb. 16 4-6 fcb. 18 11-1 
~ 
f'f'b. a. 15, 22 narch .

,..,,,,..1111,,. 
feb.24 
NO, L.aforlunc
~egi.\ler@l-5829 

cvcragca. will be provided 
Spo11Soretf 6y 'R.!<Spotts, /'1/JSJ{ea t , S nt 'J{eaftli .fl.a-uisor1 <Boan{ P'irst JI 11{ Services 'Team, 11/omen 's IJ?jsourcr Center, Office o{)lko{w(,Z <Dmg 'D{ucat,an 
Agriculture Department imposed a requirement that shipping crates coming in from China be heated and disinfected to kill Asian long-horned beetles. 
Such crates are believed to have brought in the beetle, which gained notoriety by attacking thousands of maple trees that lined the streets of Brooklyn, N.Y., and Chicago, forcing many to be cut down. 
Despite the new requirements, Glickman conceded he doesn't have enough inspectors to make sure of compliance. And I.he Chinese government has accused the United States of using the issue as a form of trade protection. 
At the same time, officials acknowledge there are thou­sands of foreign species that are beneficial, and that the United States also has species that cause concerns when they migrate to other countries. Babbitt said the long-term answer is to resolve these issues through international agree­ments that would benefit all countries. 
Environmentalists, meanwhile, maintain the adminL-.tration has been slow in regulating ballast discharges from freighters ­one of the major pathways for exotic aquatic organisms such as the Chinese mitten crab, green crab and Asian clam, which are threatening native marine life in San Francisco Bay and as far north as Washington state. 


John M~ Marshall's, Inc~ 
Established 1965 
Diamonds Engagement Rings & Wedding Bands 18karat Yellow Gold & Platinu.m~ 
~ 

Thinking of purchasing a diamond? Choose wisely with information in our complimentary book, Diamonds Magnified, 186 pages, 2nd edition, hardbound. 
John M. Marshall 
Jeweler/ Gemologist/ Mineralogist 
Telephone: 287-1427 Monday -Friday, lOa.m. to 6p.m. KeyBank Building, Suite #101, South Bend, Indiana 46601 
c ns ma ma m i;tsad I Y. e
ncc1 · donovan nu row ovett 

''A SCATHING COMEDY! 
LACERATINGLY FUNNY!'' 
-Janet Maslin, THE NEW YORK TIMES. 
r

"1998 HAS FINALLY PRODUCm AFUNNY MOYIE! 
SO FAST PACED IT VERGES ON SCREWBALL COMEDY! RICCI ANO KUDROW ARE SENSATIONAL!" 
-Kr1stfne McKenna, LOS ANGELES TIMES 
The 
•t







0PL1;~~ 
You'll laugh. You'll cry. You'll be offended. · 

Friday, February 5, 1999 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
¦ WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Wynette to be exhumed 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. 

Three of Tammy Wynette's daughters have written letters asking that the country singer's body be exhumed for an autopsy. In letters sent to Or. 13rucc Levy, Nashville's medical l'Xaminor, tho daughters said they want to 111akc sum their mother died from a blood clot ,L'i reported by h1>.r personal doctor. In a letter obtained by WTVF-TV in Nashville, Jackie Daly told Levy she wants "tu stress to you how important it is to my sisters and I to really know how our mother died. I find it hard to bcli1we you can tell how my mother died by looking at her and not doing an autopsy." Similar lcUers were sent to Levy by Wynette's daughters Tina Jones and Georgette Smith, whose father is country singer George Jones. Wynetto. 55, whose many hil'i included "Stand by Your Man," was found dead in her Nashville home April 6 by husband George Hichcy. 
Journalism class cracks case 
CHICAGO 

/\ convicted double-murderer who spent the last 16 years on death row -recently coming within two days of execution -may go free now that another man has allegedly confessed lo the crimes. Anthony Porter cried, "Thank you, God," upon hearing Wednesday that a private investigator and group of journalism students announced they had videotaped the confession. Porter, 43, was two days away from lethal injection in September when he won a stay from the Illinois Supreme Court on an appeal that claimed his IQ of 51 was too low for him to be put to death. His lawyer is hoping Porter will be released within days. The state's attorney's office said it is investi­gating the alleged confession. "He wept and he laughed and he was very happy," his attorney Terri Marroquin said. 
Giant panda's health worsens 
BEIJING 

Veterinarians at a zoo in northern China are struggling to save a 28-year-old giant panda whose kidneys appear to be failing, the state­run Xinhua News Agency reported Thursday. The panda, named Zhaizhai, has been unhealthy since his first mate, Rongrong, died six years ago. llis keepers at the zoo in Tianjin, 60 miles southeast of Beijing. intro­duced him to a new mate last month, and he initially was very friendly, the report said. Last week, however, the animal began refusing food, vomiting and passing blood in his urine -symptoms of kidney failure, it said. Veterinarians tried blood transfusions, oxygen and injections, but they were not expecting him to recover. The giant panda is one of the world's most endangered species. Native only to China, 1,000 are believed to survive in the wild. 
Dow 
AMEX: 
707.12

]ONES 
-6.15 Nasdaq:

9,304.50 
2,410.07 
-8.3.34 
NYSE: 591.05 -7.53 S&P 500: 
1248.49 
-23.)8 

-62.31 
VOLUME LEADERS 

n:aseAitiiX :i:u:e:a 1 ,aawa: ~ Q61til ea,,1 
,JS OXFORD HLDQ9  JBOH  • l:2, ll  +J .aaoo  l'S .88  
lCOM C..:ORP Ol?LL COMPUTER  COM.Ii 0-eJ..L  -B. 5, -S .09  -J. lSSO -S.OSO  34.U 102 .18  
t'ISCQ B\'BTYD4S MICROSOFT COfU•  csco MSM  -5 ,29 -4.ES  ·S.8750 -7 .1s:.:s  105,lS 15!L 00  
Il'ITEL CORP  IN'l"C  -6. 18  -8.5675  lJO .12  
t"f&'N'A CORP­ME'tiiR.SON  ClEH"""~  •9.4:5 •616.45  +2 .18~C +4.t4.25  25,J! 11: .la  
ADV 111C:RO DE\IC 800Jl(S ·"-·Ml LLICN  MC·­ -9. 5( +Jl.41  -1.3975 +3.31'115  16 .94 13 .88  


AssOCIATED PRESS 
LONDON 
Britain's highest court wrapped up hearings Thursday to determine Gen. Augusto Pinochet's fate, with opposing lawyers contending that human rights law would be reduced to a "meek little mouse" if he goes free. 
The judges from the House of Lords said they would begin private consid­erations and announce "in due course" their ruling whether the for­mer Chilean dictator is immune from prosecution for crimes against humanity he allegedly committed dur­ing his 17-year rule. 
Lawyers for Spain. which seeks Pinochet's extradition, and for human rights groups insisted that the International Convention against Torture allowed any country to try another nation's officials for such crimes. 

"This is a case about conduct that has been accepted throughout by everyone concerned as fundamentally unlawful," said Christopher Greenwood, a lawyer for Spain. 
The torture convention permits any nation to claim jurisdiction "because a state whose officials behave in this way could not be trusted to deal with this matter on its own," Greenwood said in arguments before the Lords. 
Allowing Pinochet to evade the tor­tu re convention, Greenwood said, would turn the law into a "meek little mouse." 
"We'II take time to consider this," Lord Chief Justice Nicolas Browne­Wilkinson announced as 12 days of intricate legal arguments came to an end. 
Pinochet was arrested Oct. 16 in London on a Spanish warrant alleging that he ordered killings, torture and hostage-taking during his rule, which began when he ousted Chile's elected president, Marxist Salvador Allende, in 1973. 
An official Chilean report says 3,197 people were killed or disappeared at the hands of Pinochet's ser.ret policr, during his dictatorship. 
The 83-year-old general's lawyers contend Pinochet is entitled to absolute immunity for any acts he ordered as a former head of state and that trying him abroad is an affront to Chile's sovereignty. 
The House of Lords already has denied Pinochet immunity once before. But the 3-2 ruling by a differ­ent panel was thrown out after thp, discovery that a judge who voted against the general had close ties to Amnesty International, a participant in the case. 
Ospital 
dliE{on urged prayers for 
the king who had helpedhe ½,itl., forge tho Wye River peace <trtow a.ccotd betW<lt.lU lsraol and 
i,t~~/ th~lPtt!:~a:~:!~-~ci~~~:~r 
:evegitig King Hussein, a. wonderful receded human being, a champion of'
ha kiqg peace who, I promise you 0~~~118,~ today, is fighting for his life · .i ... l"QOStly so b~1 can continue to fight for peace," Cli.nton .... ,. o said.
r.nHng Many Jordanians havti en on known no other leader. ,)l~'is When Hussein suddenly ..... '94~t1 .flew ba.c.. k to the Mayo Clinic 'Mitldlij · last week, Jordan's stock ·rdltii's market shuddered and poo• ael{he pJc began buying dollars in rpaqef .. apparent fear that the J(ird.a.~ti!in curren<:y might
sui\er. '.. · 
page 6 The Observer• NATIONAL NEWS Friday, February 5, 1999 
Senate vote allows live video testimony 


Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The Senate voted Thursday 
for videotaped testimony by 
Monica Lewinsky in President 
Clinton's impeachment case 
after dealing a bipartisan 
brush-off to a personal appear­
ance. Parts of her recorded 
deposition are to be played at 
the nationally televised trial 
session on Saturday. 
As lawmakers settled that 
issue, Republicans retreated 
from their plan to find Clinton 
guilty of wrongdoing without 
removing him from office. 
With those decisions, trial­
weary senators moved to wrap 
up the impeachment proceed­
ing by the end of next week. 
"I do think it's time we get to a vote and we move on to other issues," said Majority Leader Trent Lott, R-Miss. 
Clinton's acquittal is assured on the charges of perjury and obstruction of justice, which stem from his efforts to con­ceal a sexual relationship with Ms. Lewinsky. 
While Republicans backed awav from their plan to find Clinton guilty of wrongdoing before the trial ends, Senate Democratic leader Tom Daschle said lawmakers in his party were putting the finish­ing touches on a censure pro­posal. He said he wants it voted on either during an interruption in the proceedings or after the conclusion. 
Under the Senate's decisions on Thursday, prosecutors and White House lawyers will have up to three hours each to make presentations including por­tions of videotaped depositions on Saturday. In addition to Ms. Lewinsky, lawyers questioned presidential friend Vernon Jordan and White House aide 
at least one witness live to you, 
the central witness in the cast 
of this entire proceeding and 
that is Monica Lewinsky." 
But White House special counsel Gregory Craig argued the other side, cautioning that her testimony could "produce an avalanche of unwelcome" testimony "into the living rooms of the nation." 
At the White House, press secretary Joe Lockhart said in a written statement: "Today's vote rejecting the House man­agers' request for live witness­es indicates the Senate appears ready to bring this trial to a conclusion." 
Judy Smith, a spokeswoman for Ms. Lewinsky, said the for­mer White House intern "and her family are pleased that she does not have to go through the painful and humiliating ordeal of having to testify on the floor of the Senate." 
The vote against calling Ms. Lewinsky was a rebuff to Rep. Henry Hyde and other House prosecutors, who had pushed the two articles of impeach­ment through the House on a near party-line vote. They won grudging Senate permission a week ago to depose the three witnesses, but only after par­ing their list down from a dozen or more. 
Shortly before the vote, one House prosecutor aired his frustration. 
"If one senator has failed to personally sit through ... every deposition, that senator is not equipped to render a verdict on the impeachment trial," said Rep. James Rogan, R­Calif.. 
A subsequent bid by Democratic Sen. Patty Murray to keep the videotapes out of presentations at the trial failed. The vote was 73-27, 


1999-~000 President/Vice-President 
P"il1'4 AB~ 


ILICTIONt 
Monday, FeLruary 8, 1999 
Free soda!!! 

Voting Times: 

11 :00 am-1 :00 pm 5:00pm-7:00pm (voting takes place in all Residence Halls during these times ONLY) 

Off-Campus Voting Times: 
11 :00am-5:30pm In C1 Parking Lot (weather-permitting) 

Don't Forget to Vote!! 
Brought to you by: JZ,,,;;r,-,,/y;,,.,,m·.-/ 
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS 
The Office of Undergraduate Admissions needs your help!! 
In an effort to better serve the international community 
and increase the diversity on our campus, we need your experience, energy and creativity to recruit international students. 
We will meet Monday, February 11th at 7:00 p.m. in the basement of Grace Hall. This meeting of the entire international community will 
.-~ 
last only 1 hour. 

All students who attended high school abroad (US citizens and citizens of foreign countrie§) are more than welcome to attend and help our efforts. We look forward to our gathering__on M~nday night! 
For questions, please call Felicia at 1-3323 
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS 
Sidney Blumenthal earlier this with 20 Democrats joining 53 week and recorded the pro­Republicans.ceedings. 
That left Republican prose­An effort by the House prose­cutors -and White House 
cutors to call Ms. Lewinsky for defenders -free to use seg­live questioning was rejected, ments of the taped depositions 70-30, with 25 of the Senate's on Saturday.
55 Republicans joining the 45 Taken together, the day'sDemocrats in opposition. votes underscored that sena­Rep. Bill McCollum, R-Fla, tors in both parties are eagerpleaded with the senators: "I 
for a swift conclusion to the think that it is eminently fair trial, near the end of its fourth that we be allowed to present 
week. 
Take a Free Test Drive 
and find out! 
Notre Dame Test Drive 
Saturday, February 6, 1999 
Call today to reserve your seat! 
paper &pe~ith l(aplanl • • 






~•:f•Ui·il•
~ 
1-800-KAP-TEST 
www.kaplan.com 
'Taal names are registered trademarks of theif respeclwe owners. 



The Observer• ECONOMIC NEWS page 7 
Fed keeps interest rates steady 
As•ociatcd i>r~" ping economic strength," said Sung Won Sohn. an economist WASHINGTON at Wells Fargo & Co. in 
Trapped between conflicting Minneapolis. pressures at home and abroad, "They cannot raise rates the Federal Heserve voted because of the stock market Wednesday to leave interest bubble and what's going on rnlos unchanged, keeping its overseas and because politically hands off an economy that is it's impossible to raise rates either gratifyingly robust or too given the very low inflation rate strong for iLq own good. right now," he said. "So the 
The decision had been almost best course for them is to stand universally expected by econo-pat and see how the U.S. and mists ,ind investors and caused the global economies unfold." barr.ly a ripplo on Wall Street. Wednesday's decision left the But it highlighted the dilemma benchmark federal funds target facing the central bank just rate on overnight loans among months after it cut rates thrnc limes to insure that financial turmoil in much of the rest of the world 'THE FED CANNOT RAISE RATFS 
would not derail the long BECAUSE OF THE STOCK MARKET American business expan­sion. BUBBLE AND WHAT'S GOING ON OVER· Hather than slowing, the SEAS AND BECAUSE POLITICALLY ITS economy grew at a lorrid 
5.6 percont annual rate in IMPOSSIBLE TO RAISE RATES GNEN THE the f'ourth quarter, putting VERY LOW INFLATION' back on thu agenda the 
possibility that inflation, long dormant, could rcsur-SUNG WoN SOHN facn. One faction within £CONOMIS1~ WELLS FARGO & Co. 
the Federal Heserve is also concerned about rapid growth in the money supply, a banks at 4.75 percent and the cause or signal of inflation. discount rate on loans from the 
As a rnsult, analysts said, Federal Reserve system at 4.5 /\Ian c;rcenspan, the Federal percent. Heserve chairman. and his col-The central bank's usual hiagues on the central bank are terse announcement almost certainly considering Wednesday afternoon that the whether they will need to policy-setting Federal Open reverse course and raise rates Market Committee had later this year if growth does adjourned with nothing to not slow markedly on its own. report belied the fundamental 
Yet the continued fragility of nature of the debate that has global financial markets, a reemerged within the institu­rapidly expanding trade deficit, lion in the last few months: Has r.oncern about causing a big the economy entered a new era sell-off on Wall Street and the in which heavy investments in almost total absence of any technology allow rapid growth hard evidence of inflation have to coexist with low inflation? Or combined to create a strong is the United States merely case for leaving rates alone or enjoying a remarkable but tern-even cutting them further. porary string of good economic 
"The F1id cannot lower inter-luck that will end with inflation-est rates because of eye-pop-ary forces reasserting them­selves? 
The evidence in favor of a fundamental change includes some of the most recent eco­nomic statistics. The fourth­quarter growth rate of' 5.6 per­cent brought growth for all of 1998 to 3.9 percent, the third consecutive year in which the economy has expanded at near­ly a 4-percent rate. 
Traditional economic theory holds that the economy cannot grow more than about 2.5 per­cent a year over the Jong run without igniting inflation. But the broadest measures of price 
changes suggest that infla­tion last year was one per­cent or less. 
Moreover, the absence of 
meaningful int1ation came despite falling unemploy­ment, which has left the jobless rate, currently 4 3 
percent, hovering near 30­year lows. And heavy investments in computers and other cost-saving tech­nology has allowed many companies to improve pro­ductivity, setting off a debate about whether the United States has reversed 
a two-decade-long slide in pro­ductivity growth. 
"Members of the Fed wake up every morning and look out at a booming economy and ask themselves whether it's a result of computers or of interest rates being low," said Brian Wesbury, an economist at Griffin, Kubik, Stephens & Thompson, a Chicago invest­ment firm. 
Wesbury comes down on the side of those who think technol­ogy has increased the econo­my's capacity for noninflation­ary growth. He said that rela­tive to inflation, the short-term interest rates controlled by the Fed are still high and could be cut to further stimulate growth without any danger of over­heating. 
l 999-2000 PresidentialNice-Presidential Candidate 

edines don't nee• ale. trend. outh of January, 
· composite went )it. 1.1.nd in one day ·· ·ll, people·. ask over/' Wachtol
•.· · · ·· ·· f' <io9tni.c, a pattern, 
··••··•ofonline 

ha.cl beengain.s·fo.r tlie a row, mu~lly fter New York . . ...· . ·y genc~rnl :,aid slooking into trading·*ritieS a:t these firms. c.&f them ..ended lower, Siebert Financial losing 6 
431/4. 
ow) lldef.fotay into J~tp.ty wa1rduo to a qµiica.lly sens.Hiv~i \ as Minnesota a)iµf~c~urJng, · pa.per a.nd 

ocks etlded in umn after the :Re$ervo Board )l minutes of its ....•.•.. et mtJeting indic,ttingU qidn't pla.n to raise ~$(r~tes. Higher rnt(';s d l{1.1i-Lplg manufacturnrs ti~~ Jhelr borrowing 
··· ·. · ···· Jatively great. f(:omputer chip 
. yatit:l.ld Micl'o 
Jhtel were lowerrice war in· cvm~ .Mp tell ?. t/6 to .jJl Lynch down*
.slock after the 
ited out of two 
tecllllology con* Shares of Intel. red its chip prices , fell 8 5/8 to 130 

...·...··•·• .f~~t paid little mind 
~Jjl>.{ pieces of good eco­
news,> 
!:ti.pol'. D{l.partment said 
rop~r pfµ~w unemploy•
•· ~l~ms..{~U 9.,000·in the

~·~rlel:lt••~•.p:·Pf.~tri:e~~
•Jed!,l\?/3. p.~rt.ent jumpttiersJp .U.S. factori~s in
.fflh~f;:Jii;t· .. 
:-.. :--. (:.·':,:/.?:::_.:-·· 
Sunday, 7:00 pin F ehruary 7, 1999 Lafortune BallrooITI 
Free Pizza and Socia proviclecl for all who attend!! Con1e and find out what your 1999-2000 
Candidates truly stand for. 
Brought to you hy * fa,r//r/rr/ <ct'W/1rr'/ 

• 



1rmrn ]]) 

JP&IBtTOOIE 
Now Leasing For Fall 1999 
• Conveniently located 4 Blocks from Campus Student Lease Available 
• 

or One Month free rent with a year lease 
• Large 2-Bedrooms for under $500.00!! 
"The Best Value In Off Campus Living" 
Professionally Managed by Real Estate Management Corp. 
234-9923 
• i¦ I 

page8 The Observer. TECHNOLOGY NEWS Friday, February 5, 1999 


Microsoft video fails to have government warnings 
1998-99 SEASO.N NOTRE DAME FILM, TELEVISION, AND THEATRE PRESENTS 
WEfiNESOAY, FEBRUARY 10, 7:30 PM
RESERVED 11cms SM 
THURSOAY, fE8RUARY 11, 7:30 PM 7]
SENIOiS sn 
fRIDAY, FEDRUARY 12, : 0PM
ALL STUDOOS $11 
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 7:30 PM 
TICIE!S AKE AVAILA8lE AT LAFORTIH STUD[jjf CBiTEi ncm llfFICE. MASTERCARD AHi! VISA ORDERS CALL 611-8128 
ernment) program." 

But Justice Department lawyer David Boies showed that a title bar for the Internet software suggested Microsoft's test actually used a version of Windows unaltered by the gov­ernment. 
'IDO NOT BELIEVE THAT 
HE DELIBERATELY FALSI· 
FIED THIS, Btrr IT DOES CAST 
DOUBT ON RELIABILl1Y OF 
[THE ORIGINAL VIDEO] ALTO­
GETHER •. ' 

THOMAS PENFIELD JACKSON 
U.S. DISTRICT JUDGE 
When Windows was tested with the government's changes, "you didn't have this delay," Boies charged. 
Microsoft said Thursday it couldn't guarantee in its overnight tests that identical laptops achieved comparable 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
Seeking to recoup its credi­bility in the courtroom over a disputed computer demonstra­tion, Microsoft Corp. played a new videotape at its trial Thursday but failed to include an important assertion from the original video that the gov­ernment had challenged. 
Microsoft said the overall results vindicated its argu­ments that government efforts to disable Internet functions within its Windows software cause serious problems. 
The company recorded the new demonstration overnight in a conference room overlook­ing the White House at its law firm, under scrutiny of govern­ment lawyers and computer experts. 
Thursday's video showed an IBM laptop behaving oddly, causing strange crashes and unusual flashing screens in parts of Windows after the gov­ernment modified it. 
"Right now, the system is in a very confused state," Microsoft senior vice president James Allchin said during the demon­stration. "It's definitely not well right now." 
The video also showed sever­al ways to browse the Internet despite government attempts to prevent it. 
The government alleges that Microsoft illegally "tied" its Internet browser software into Windows, which forced con­sumers who use its computer operating system also to use its browser. It sought to modify Windows to refute Microsoft's claims that its browser is inseparable. 
Microsoft acknowledged that it was unable to duplicate one disputed segment that purport­ed to show that the govern­ment's tinkering caused its Internet software to run dra­matically slower. 
On the original video, anoth­er Microsoft employee said: "It's taking a very long time, however -unusually long ­to access that Web site. That's a result of the performance degradation that has occurred because of running the (gov­connection rates to the Internet, which would have ensured a fair demonstration. 
"The phone situation was a real mess," Allchin explained. He said on the new video that the obviously slow Internet performance "has nothing to do" with the government's changes. 
But spokesman Mark Murray maintained that in the compa­ny's previous tests, Allchin had "personally witnessed the degradation under lab condi­tions." 
U.S. District Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson had criticized Microsoft's earlier video demonstration as unreliable after Boies pointed out incon­sistencies in a four-minute seg­ments during two days of dra­matic courtroom confrontation. 
Allchin eventually explained that Microsoft had edited together video segments of sev­eral different computers so it appeared a single computer was being tested. 
Murray said Thursday that the flawed video had been intended as "an illustration of what we found in the laborato­ry." Microsoft lawyer Steven Holley called it "now infa­mous." 

Despite being ravaged under cross-examination over two days, Allchin maintained his humor in the new video, showed unedited during 70 minutes in court. 
When Allchin confessed he wasn't sure at one point whether to restart the laptop for one test, he murmured: "Well, I don't mind a little risk." Then his eyes widened, his lips pursed. 
When one program in the test prompted him to enter his birth date before proceeding. he deadpanned: "OK. apparently 1 was born yesterday."' 
The judge told lawyers in a private meeting that he didn't believe Allchin had deliberately falsified the tests, according to a transcript obtained Thursday. 
"I do not believe that he deliberately falsified this, but it does cast doubt on reliability of (the original video) altogether," the judge said in Wednesday's meeting at the close of' court. 


QUICKC'AB 
233-6000 
"Ride Safe, Save Money!!!" 
• ND
111..Michiana Regional Airport r---------7 One Person $8, I I
·•q;lv~o .

More than I, $5 each I I 
• ND111..Downtown Area 

a-t:cs . . •OFF: 
One Person $5, I .·.. · I More than I, $2 each 
: EACH TRIP : . 

• ND111..South Bend Restaurants I ~VICK C'AB I :
I I · 
One Person $5, 
I 23-6000 I.
More than I, $2 each 
L--E~P~~ ~1~9--.J . 


Friday, February 5, 1999 The Observer• AGRICULTURAL NEWS page 9 


Expo gr<\. 
cm~·· 

Grain and· soybean f.u.WrP rallied Thursday on ~h Chkag<> Boarcl of Trn.qe atWr 
the govCrliJ11ent rep<>rted s···.. · prl<1ing export business. > Soybcan1; j.nlUally r~t:r, after the U.S: Agrfoul 
Department reported ~tj 
boan meal. and ·oil exports 
the past wock wore waake 
than expected; But prices rat 
lied un the. govern me·•.• 
nt.'WS Lhllt an unkMWb olgn buyer had purih 275,000 .metric tons of ...• beans for delivery this mi . keting year. · · · <.\ 
Wheat futures were SiJP?: ported by wee!dy expott $~1~. · · ot' 588,300 m~tric .tQnsJwe. abovti market expectatfo and a. sha,rp improv*itl:~ .. ,tu.9
ov(ir lackluster demand fton'\P·,.A the past rew weeks.. CcfrrF 2 j:
futures also saw un(\xp¢ '• \N . ,, heavy export dema.ncl.• sharp gatns Were limite " 
¦ POLAND 

Farm dispute negotiations stall 
Associated Press 
WARSAW, Poland 
Talks on farm reforms will not continue until Polish farm­ers take down at least 80 bar­ricades blocking traffic, the government's top negotiator said Wednesday. 

Labor Minister Longin Komolowski demanded that farmers remove the blockades as a condition for resuming talks that began Tuesday afternoon, but were called off later that evening. 
Prime Minister Jerzy Buzek conferred with his Cabinet, as leaders of the Freedom Union, a junior partner in the govern­ment, criticized ministers for opening talks while the illegal blockades continued. 
"The government must start ruling, defending the reforms," said an editorial Wednesday in the Gazeta Wyborcza newspa-

Go Irish Hockey, Beat Michigan State 

:/isummer session, hawai'i 
.• 6 weeks,. ~ credits, as low as $2,700 (based on typical cp~ts of tu1t1on, room & board, books, and airfare) Term 1: May 24-July 2 • Term 2: July 6-August 13 www.outreach.hawaii.edu • toll-free 1 (800) 862-6628 University of Hawai'i at Manoa, Summer Session 
Mid Winter Celebration of Light Mass, Candle Procession & Bonfire Badin Hall • Carroll Hall 9:00pm February ?th Mass In Badin Hall Procession to Carroll Hall Bonfire and Refreshments  

per. which has links to the party. 
The farm protest began Jan. 25, following calls by farm leader Andrzej Lepper for higher prices for agricultural 
LAST WEEK THE GOVERN­MENT AGREED TO INTER­VENE ON THE MARKET BY BUYING PORK AT HIGHER PRICES -BUT FARMERS SAY THE BUYING PRICE WAS TOO LOW. 
produce and for farm debts to be erased. 
Meeting some of the farmers' demands, Agriculture Minister Jacek Janiszewski promised that the government would 
introduce stricter controls on food imports and stimulate food exports to Russia, where the market has collapsed along with tlrn economy. 
Last week, the government agreed to intervene on the market by buying pork at higher prices -but farmers say the buying price was too low. 
Despite broad Hr.onomic reforms intendtid to comploto the shift from a centralized communist-era economy to a market system. Polish agricul­turn remains hobbled by small. poorly equipped farms that are unable to compete with more modern farms in Western Europe. 
Calls for form reform ahead of Poland's bid to join the European Union havo been resisted by farmers. who are afraid of losing control of their land. 








VIEWPOINT 

page JO---------------------­

f 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OrncE: P.O. Bmi: Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EorroR-IN•CH!Ef 
Heather Cocks MANAGING l!Drroa BUSINESS MANAGER Brian Reim:h•kr Kyle Carlin 
AsslSTANT MANAGING E.DITOll Heather Macl<entic 
NEWS EDITOR ........................Michelle Krupa ADVERTISING MANAGEll........................Bryan Lutz VIEWPOl1'1' EDITOR .................. Eduardo !Juli AD OF.slGN MAN'AGEII ........................ H rl'tc Hudar SPORTS EDITOR...................... K:uhlecn Lopez S\'STEMs MANAGEII .................... Mich,cl Brouillet SCENE EI>ITORS ...........................Smh Dylag CoNTROLLEll ..................................... Dave Rogero 
Krini Klitsch WEB Al>MINlSTIV.IOll .......................Allison Krilla SAINT MARrs EDITOR .......M. Shannon Ryan GRAPHICS ED1roa ............................... Pc« Cildt. PHOTO EDITOR ........................Kevin Dalum 
The Obscr,er ii die independent ,ie,-.p.pe, publi>hc:J by the ,mdems ofdie Univmity of Noue Dunc du I..c and 
Sa.im M.ry'i Colkgt. lt docs not n~ily tdka th~ policies ofthe administration ofcichcr instiruUon. The news LS 
reported as •ccumdy and objcctivdy as possible. Unsigned editorials reproscni the opinion ofme majoriry ofthe Edito,-in•Chicf. Man.giog Editor, Assistant Man.giog Editor and dcpanment cdiro1S. Commenwics, letter. and 
ooiumn, present die ,·icw£ ofthe audi.ors, and not nCCC'iUJily chose ofThe Ob~cr. Vic::wpoint ~ace is a\>'ailablc to .i.11 members. of the No-trc Dame/Sa.im M»),.5 community ;ind to .JI readers. The free cxprCiSian of varying opinion:; rhr()u.gh Iencrs i5 erioour.igcd. 

Contactini; The Obserur 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Busirue,. Offic,, 631-5313 Managing Editor/Assist.int ME 631-4541 Advcnismg 631-6900/8840 N,-w,/Phoro 631-5323 Sy.,cm, 631-8839 Spans 631-4543 Fa,; 631-6927 Scene/Saint Mal]'', 631·4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Vic:wpoim. l@nd.edu Day EdimrNicweoini 631·5303 Ad E·Mail obscrvcr@dirwin.cc.nd.cdu Office Managc1/Gencral lnfurmation 631·747! New, E-Mail obscrvcr.obrn=. !@nd.edu 
¦ DOONESBURY  
AI.M05777~ IM /?tJMP/1,/0 RJR "1l-//;CiLJ­fOO IEJM, .. NO,. SIN& iJ!'lU-1:U HOW/NG I TAtJ< rous, IM S/;/£/NG. OIAG't;. SHORTC!V.30 I lCTO:J/~ 40.1 /  I'M 7AKIN@A ¾ft?,{ ONINllitl BtlYING PtA!iH.PANl#~/NGIM NO.' fi.AGH.13.  


-----------------Friday, February 5, 1999­
...UNtltDIP VllJ 

~~ ...oo...run14m;, rr... 
CN 1\J f.. 
··:·~:::::::-:< 

·....···.....: . . ... . .····•·:::: ··•·····•:•:-:-···· ... 
, : ..: -0.us.s \:mri us msue.i rfhijfahfo pla.ri to ..•
'~­
..••...• ., :iif#.@Mtirnffiti.tf$:l9ll:ili:f§K .. 
1111111¦111::;:? ; ..... -.-,--::;:::;::.-.-·=-=...•.·.•.·.·.·••!·.... .•. 
.
. . !:::••··•·••·•·•·::::/:(!{{:):;:}::;:::···:·:··:.:.:'
·.·.•.i.•.. •.·.·•..!.:.. 
••,•:-·


·i:iill!illlll~I-~lit~•:•;• 
.................. :::••~111m~••1111::111•••~1••••••••••••••••······· 
.•. .. · ·· · · /t:i:/t\I\/Ji

ill¦t:.:.:.•.•·:·:·•·•·•·:·•·1···;·;·:•:.~.;.­
-::::::=·::::::::~1~;;;~;~~;;~)/:;;......, ..... 
,~!l 
.............. ·-•-•. ·.-.-... ·.· .....:i:i~;:;:i;i~;:;J;.;:;;i;;:;:;::::;;:i~:;;;;~;>:;;:;;;;;;);;;;;:~:;:;;;:::;:~:;;:::: 

GARRY TRUDEAU 

¦ ilUOTE OF THE OtW 
, The novel is the genre of historical hope.' 
-Margaret A. Doody 



VIEWPOINT 
Friday, February 5, 1999 OB~RVER -----------------------page 11 
¦ Lui.A's JOIJRNAt 
Don't Believe the Hype 

I was talking to a good friend of mine the uther 
day about universities. He said something that star­
tled me. A univer:-;ity should be "animated by a spirit 
of froedom and charity. mutual respect, sincere dia­
logue, and protoction of individual rights. It assists 
caeh of its members to achieve wholeness as human 
persons; in turn. everyone in the community helps in 
promoting unity, and each one. according to his or 
h1ir capacity, contributes toward decisions which 
affect the community." 
What startled me is how undemocratic the whole 
debate about joining the Big Ten has been. The 
whole community has not been consulted about this 
issue. Instead, we have 
seen a small group of fac­
ulLy and administrators 
tell the rest of us, stu­
Jeff 
dents, alumni, secretaries, ground-crew, snow­removers, tree-pruners,


Langan 
light bulb changers, secu­
rity guards. and faculty 
that we are unworthy of 
consultation in this matter 

(I don't call a faculty brew-ha-ha one week before 
the Trustees meet in London real academic debate. 
That is not how academics exercise a collegial spirit 
in coming to decisions at, for example, academic 
conferences.) 
Maybe it's because they can't come up with any better argument for joining the BIG TEN other than it will make us "larger," or because joining the BIG TEN will allow Notre Dame "to compare itself with those schools." As if we can't make ourselves larger or we can't compare ourselves with BIG TEN schools unless we actually join the BIG TEN. 
As far as I can tell, the administration doesn't want the community as a whole to contribute to this decision. The administration has been unresponsive to any attempt by journalists to speak with them or other faculty about this matter. ln spite of that, the community as a whole might in fact contribute to this decision, but this does not justify the way mak­ing the decision was handled. 
Yes, you will tell me, there has been a flurry of news stories over the past week. That does nothing to contribute to really understanding the situation. That's just sensationalist journalism looking for this week's hit. It is kind of ironic, though, that the Sports pages have been covering this issue since November or December. Thus, we see where the real crack reporters congregate. It's also ironic that in public at least sports reporters have given more attention to this issue than our dedicated and responsible administrators and faculty. 
This is more ironic because this same small group or administrators and faculty frequently criticizes organized religious institutions, arguing that these religious institutions are in some sense undemocrat­ic and not responsive to the "real needs" of their flocks. 
But there is perhaps a better explanation. An 
¦ LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
¦ CAPITOL COMMENTS 

Driving Mr. Clinton 
On Tuesday. Punxsutawny begun asking the question, Phil forecast that spring "Where will the evidence would arrive early this year. go?" Independent Counsel In Washington on Kenneth Starr subpoenaed Wednesday, mild tempera-everything from Monka tures and bright sunshine Lewinsky's dress to pho­greeted President Clinton tographs of intern classes when his motorcade drove that once hung in the halls of two blocks to the Willard the White House. When the Hotel for his appearance investigation and litigation before a senior citizens' have been completed, hun­
organiza-==========~=====~ drcds
tion. of Despite the items 
Republican and
Gary

blood-thou­hounds sands sniffing the of
C 

impeach-aruso pages 




A Thank You to the PSA 


underlying mentality in this debate is that it is not 
possible to be a committed faithful Catholic and a 

top-rate intcUectual at the same time. This mentality 
assumes that we have to settle for being an irrele­
vant, under-funded po-dunk college or a big bad 

research university. The two, academic excellence 
and remaining faithful to the Pope, are incompati­
ble. 
This mentality extends to other more important 

matters as well. For example, many think that being 
a committed Catholic somehow prevents a guy from 
being a good basketball player or that committed 

Catholic guys can't talk to pretty girls. or to be really 
good at anything is somehow incompatible with 
being Catholic. 

This mentality is patently false. If anything the opposite should prevail. An individual can be a top­rate whatever and a committed and faithful Catholic at lhe same time. Aquinas or Augustine weren't bad philosophers because they were Catholic. William Bennet was not an incompetent Head of the Department of Education because he was Catholic. 
Alasdair MacIntyre is not a second-rate ethicist because he is Catholic and likes to read the writings of Cardinal Ratzinger. Likewise, committing itself to being a truly Catholic University does not exclude the possibility that Notre Dame be a top-notch what­ever. 
It is true, however, that many secular thinkers regard anybody who lives their life according to some principle of faith as irrelevant. For example. I know a professor at the University of Michigan, a school in the BIG TEN, who was told that the recent papal encyclical on Faith and Reason was "irrele­vant to students and professors at the University of Michigan." 
Has anybody asked if BIG TEN schools or any other secular school in this country respects the aca­demic freedom of Catholic thinkers? Ifsomeone were to think, for example, that joining the BIG TEN somehow means Notre Dame has to hide its Catholicism, they would be wrong. And this is why I think the administration has been so secretive about debating joining the BIG TEN. There must be some kind of fear that we can't join the Big Ten and keep our Catholic identity. so we had better think of a way to hide our Catholic identity. But just the oppo­site should be the case. We should want to join the BIG TEN and sue anybody who treats us as second rate because we are faithful. for example to Rome. 
Better yet, we could remain independent and sue any AAURP or ERP or whatever that attempts to classify us as second rate because of our Catholicism, and if they do so. too bad for them, they have committed the injustice. 
Jeffrey J. Langan is a graduate student in the Government department. His column appears every other Friday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

On behalf of the 750 members of GALA-ND/SMC (The Gay and Lesbian Alumni(ae) of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College). we would like to personally thank the constituents of the Progressive Student Alliance for all of their hard work and dedication toward achieving equal rights on this campus. 
Frnm its inception, PSA has been at the forefront of attempts to make a difference ... not only on the issue ol' non-discrimination, but concerning academ­
ic: freedom, environmental issues, animal rights and gnndnr equality. 
This is the type of inquiry and thoughtfulness which great universities inspire ... and we thank PSA for bringing it here to Notre Dame. Actually, for bringing it BACK to Notre Dame. 
Through the years, GALA-ND/SMC and the g/1/b student g-roup OUTreach ND (formerly GLND/SMC) have been blessed with many allies; the College Dmnocrats, Gender Studies. the Graduate Student Union. the Center for Social Concerns. Prism and the Student and Faculty Senates, to name a few. These groups seek justice for all. They also desire to make a Notre Dame nducation more than just textbooks and exams -for college is meant to be a time to realize one's full potential. Only in an environment of free 11nd open discourse which otfers exposure to the Lruc diversity of the "real world." is such complete growth possible. And only with equal protection under the law is the right to a quality education ensured. 
Therefore, it is with deep gratitude that we offer a sincere "Thank you" to PSA, and to all of the mem­bers of the Notre Dame community who support the inclusion of sexual orientation in the University's non-discrimination clause. 
Together, we can make it happen. 

The Officers of GAIA-ND/SMC February 2, 1999 ment trail 
on Capitol 
Hill. 
Clinton 
appeared confident and 
statesmanlike. 
Transporting the President is a complicated and quite impressive task whether it involves Marine One, Air Force One and23 members of the press and White House staff emerge from the vans. They scurry towards the tent while additional Secret Service agents and White House staff make a bee line for the hotel. A minute after the President's arrival, the entourage has disappeared. the street reopened and the sidewalk where I stood across the street from the tent is bustling again with pedestri­ans. The most powerful man in the world brushed briefly by us, just two blocks from his office and home ... with the help of sev­eral dozen others. 
TRYING Mn. CLINTON 
Scandal-related merchan­dise abounds in Washington. Buttons and bumper stickers proclaim such slogans as. "It takes a village idiot to believe Clinton," "Liar, liar. pants on fire" and "Win one for the Zipper." The President's attorney, David Kendall, entered a political memorabilia store during the last week of December and bought a picture of First Lady Hillary Clinton with a bumper sticker attached above it reading, "Get off his back!" Kendall had walked past piles of the Starr Report printed on toilet paper to make his selection. 
House Judiciary member Jerrald Nadler (D-NY) left the White House Congressional Christmas Ball still clad in his tuxedo when a. man came rushing up to him on Pennsylvania Avenue. "Congressman," the man called out as Nadler tried to evaluate whether the man was going to be friendly or hostile. "You are the man," the man said and then explained that he was proud ofNadler's defense of Clinton while handing the Congressman a gift...a set of Russian nesting dolls entitled "All the President's Dolls" which featured Clinton, Monica Lewinsky, Paul Jones, Jennifer flowers and Kathleen Willey. 
ARCHIVING nm SCANDAi. 
Reporters covering the National Archives have of 
mate• 
ri~ 
will 

be kept as prescribed by 
law. Staff at the National 
Archives have confirmed 
that the infamous blue drflss 
will be stored along with 
such items as John F. 
Kennedy's blood-soaked 
shirt. 

SPEWNG IN CONGRESS 
When Notre Dame stu­dents attending the Washington semester decid­ed to stand in line to obtain tickets for the opening ses­sion of the Senate impeach­ment trial, they witnessed more than history. Each sen­ator received a pen with which to sign the register on the first day of the proceed­ings. Each pen was supposed to have printed on it "United States Senate," but did not. The pens, rare collector's items known for their impeachment value, arc more unique for another reason. The inscription may have been an omen fore­telling of an upcoming con­fusing spectacle. It read, "Untied States Senate." 
BlJDDY THE FIRST PET 
Handlers for both Socks and Buddy (the President's cat and dog) allow the ani­mals to roam throughout the White House complex. Departing visitors of the daily White House tours have reported that they have held Socks or patted Buddy on the head. On the other hand. White House stuff have had different, less pleasant experiences. Buddy is extremely pampered and spoiled, and tends to jump on people. One military staff person threw Buddy off his lap and against a chair. Buddy decided to bother other staff members in that ollice and avoided the unfriendly military man. One can only imagine how Buddy would have fared if that mili­tary person had been in actuality the f.irst Family's dreadnd nemesis Ken Starr. 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame '73, worked al the 
U.S. House of Representatives for eighteen years and is a consultant in Washington, D. C:. llis column appears every other Friday and his Internet address is Jlottline@aol. cum. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe ObserMr. 




w E 
ceneN D 
O 
THE 

--------------Friday,February 5, 1999
BSERVER 



About Farlev·s Stereotvoe: 

"I wouldn't say that most girls smoke, but in my section, I do have a number ofsmokers. But although some girls do smoke, they are still really nice people." 
Beth Marino, R.A., Farlev Hall About Breen Phillips' Stereotvpe: 
uB.S. The stereotype originated in one of two ways. The first origin had to do with a pizza­eating contest a few years ago. Apparently every time a guy's dorm ordered pizza, they said chat they were from BP, and BP won the contest by an extreme majority. The second origin had to do with a pizza eating contest when BP was still a male dorm. The men won the con­test, and the stereotype carried over to the women's dorm. Whatever the origin, it has been my experience that most BP girls are very athletic." 
Heather Densmore, former resident of Breen Phllllps 

About Walsh's StereOIVPB: 

uNo, I do not think chat the rich-alumni daughter stereotype is true. In the past there have been some alumni daughters living here, but now I think we have a really good mix -we are the same as any other dorm. " 
oeanette Weiss, senior, Walsh Hall 
~,·:Jij;i;·:-...';>I'';..~ 
.-n~M..­
. ··•.~~~ Q • \ ' •,;, t 1 ,. • <\-'I> ', · ·• ,.., t • · '. · · . t.• · , t . ,
1 
\· .,..~~vvv........ ' . ....'wv 

-~--..,..~-:,:,: ...~•·-..~r.:.""'~... ,.,,.., 
_ _.,.... , ~---I! Ill 0>!'1-•·""'"'"°'" ...... _ ··••­

·\~'4<,-0.,>~ 
~-'",..."'-­

it:~. 
Evervone knows the stereotvues. Zahm uuvs are 1 uuvs are iust rich bovs, right? Well, Scene condo~ what the average student thinks about each of thl 
in -are vou surpri 

Alumni Hall  
Dawgs  Fraternity  
Fisher Hall  
Regatta  Dirty Dorm  
Morrissev Hall  
Rats  Nice Guys  
Howard Hall  
Quiet  Ducks  
Badin Hall  
Quiet  Loners  
Keough Hall  
New  Kangaroo  
Welsh Hall  
New  Rich  
Sorinlall  
Alumni Kids  Big Parties  
Cavanaugh  
Hotties  Big Parties  
Keenan Hall  
Revue  Friendly  

Breen Phillips Hall 
Fat Yo-Cream 
Siegfried Hall 
Smart Flanner 
Pasquerilla West 
Purple Weasels Flag Football 
on-campus Housing 
Parties No Rules 

PRESIDENTIAL AND VICE 
VOTING HOURS: 11 A.M. "l P;M 






Student Government , 
C....... ··s
•: '.."'.:::· •.~-·. .. . . . . ··.. . :•. 
. . 
.. :" 
··• . ' . 


Viewpoint • 1 O 

A special section ofThe Observer • Friday, February 5, 1999 
Candidates range from determined to dubious 

Some candidates declare 
no intention ofwinning, 
but still push their issues 
By MICHELLE KRUPA News Editor 

It has been said that winning isn't everything, but for some candidates in the race for Notre Dame student body president and vice president, iL's not even part of the game plan. 
With 11 tickets in this vear's race, some candi­dates have admitted that.their intentions have lit­tle to do with actually winning. 
"Some interpret [our campaign( as a protest. Some interpret it as a joke." said presidential can­didate Scott Killen. "Our feeling is that student government takes itself too seriously." 
Killen, a Zahm sophomore, decided to run after being solicited by Zahm !fall residents to bolster the dorm's participation in the race. Currently, seven tickets are comprised of two candidates f'rom Zahm. 
"[We're doing this as al favor to a friP.nd. lie

Blazing the 

wanted to get as many people from Zahm to run," Killen said. "It's just some guys going out, having a good time, throwing some issues into the ring."

campaign trail 

Like Killen and his running mate. Zahm sopho­more Paul Nebosky. Zahm residents Patrick
Above: Presidential candidate Micah Murphy greets McCormick and Brian Wahl are not running to

freshman Domingo Maynes to ask for his vote in win, but hope that some of their ideas will be
Monday's election. 
implemented by the winners. "We're doing this to challenge {student govern­
Right: Vice presidential candidate Dan Hennigan 

ment) to change the process a little," McCormickapparently has a great deal of faith in his running mate said.
Luke White's knifo juggling ability. The pair of room­
or course. not all Zahm tickets are joking
mates are hoping their mutual trust will inspire voters 
around. Many candidates have pl'esented non-tra­
lo (ilecl thmn. 
Photos by Joe Slark 
see CAMPAIGN / page 8 

¦ THE CESARO/SELAK ADMINISTRATION 




Duo reflects on successes, future of presidency 

ByTlM LOGAN Associarc News Editor 
After a year or focusing on their campaign promises in a systematic, workmanlike manner, student body president Peter Cesaro and vice presi­dent Andrea Sclak are now preparing lo hand the rnigns of government over to the winners of next week's elec­tions. 
Looking back over the past term, the pair point to a range of accomplish­ments in the areas of student services and student government cooperation as their most valued achievements. 
"We have done a lot of things that have enhanced campus unity and stu­dent lifo here," Cesaro said. lie point­od lo the expansion of Saferide to Thursday nights, Academic Pride Week and the Diversity Education Program -which is still in the works -us the three most important initia­tives or his administration. 
Administrative relations is another arna on which Cesaro and Selak have worked. Their Fall report to the Board of Trustees. which focused on expand­ing the services offered in the First Year of Studies -such as a writing center and tutoring -to all students, was reportedly well-received by mem­bers of the Huard. 
"The Fall Board of Trustees Report has the potenUal to make long-term improvements," said Selak. While their work at improving communica-

The Observer/Joe Slark 

Student body president Peter Cesaro and vice president Andrea Selak look back upon their year in office. The two have focused on student services and improving campus life. 
the clause change. lie explained this 
as an attempt to maximize the impact 
of his statement. 
"If you speak out vocally on a lot or issues the amount or response and acknowledgment you receive dwin­dles." Cesaro said. "In order to regis­ter student opinion we wanted to talk about it close to the !Board ol' Trustees) meeting. You don't want to come out and make people sick of' you." 
At this point in their term. the two 
are looking towards the future. and 
hope the next administration will l'ol­
low through on some of their initia­
tives while developing their own pro­
posals for the long term. 
"Student Government has the poten­tial to be so much more than a one­year thing," said Selak. "You havo the opportunity to make a difference that lasts. H's important to remember that." In looking towards the future, Cesaro and Selak have some sugges­tions for whoever moves in to 203 LaFortune on April 1. Vision. passion and commitment are qualities they see as essential to be an effective student leader. 
"My hope is that the next adminis­tration will have a long-term vision," said Selak. "It's important to have a commitment and a roal love for boing at Notre Dame." 
Cesaro also noted the importance of' 
see CESARO / page 8 
tions with the Board has been an improvement over other terms, there has still been no tangible progress made on getting a student member on the Board. 
One criticism of the administration thus far has been that Cesaro and Selak have appeared reluctant to take a stand on major issues of importance to the student body, such as potential Big Ten membership and the addition of sexual orientation to the non-dis­crimination clause. While Cesaro has spoken at public forums on both these matters in the past week, both officials were largely silent up until now. 

This is especially true of the non-dis­crimination clause, which has been a hoL issue on campus ever since Father David Garrick resigned last March, just before Cesaro and Solak took office. Cesaro took a public stance on the issue for the first time at a rally on Tuesday when he spoke in support of 
SEE WHO THE OBSERVER ENDORSED 

. ·-•·--............._. ___________________.,....____ __,__________________,______,.____ 

page 2 Friday, February 5, 1999 
¦ EDITORIAL COMMENTARY 


Tickets offer a variety of valuable ideas 
In a year when many have La.Fortune. Buyske want to work for an Nebosky's interest in expand-regular basis is a good idea. called politics a joke, some Regardless of their motiva­increased student voice on ing student seating at hockey The ticket of Micah Murphy candidates in Notre Dame's tions for running, all 22 candi­issues of importance to the games shows foresight about a and Michael Palumbo has a race for student body presi­dates dedicated time and Notre Dame community. The problem that will only host of solid proposals for stu­dent and vice president have money to the race. Each plat­current lack of student leader­increase as Notre Dame hock-dent governmcqt, but perhaps been written off as jokesters. form features at least one ship on the Big Ten and non­ey continues to improve. the best one is ,establishing a 
It's unfair and unrealistic to plank that merits considera­discrimination decisions high-On a similar note, the foot-housing network for summer blow off the tickets that aren't tion from stu-ball ticket dis-interns. Whoever is elected necessarily front-runners. dent govern­tribution pro-would be well-served to look True, two tickets admitted ment officers posals of Bill into this proposal. they do not want or expect to -the student Kuder and The proposal by Wally win, but no ticket ever told body presi­Joe Priest Poirier and Greg Smith to The Observer that it didn't dent and vice should be institute gender and diversity care about Notre Dame or president, hall considered as forums at Freshman about student government. senators, the adminis-Orientation would be a good 
Candidates threw in their class repre­lralion looks start in addressing two serious hats for a number of reasons sentatives and into changing problems at Notre Dame: gen­besides a desire to lead the dorm presi­the system. der and race relations. undergraduate student body. dents -no WhHe their Cynthia Turski and Steven Some want to shake up the matter which specific pro-Hobey's suggestions of putti.ng election process, others are ticket wins on posals may be TCEs online for review and concentrating on a very spe­Feb. 12. u n f eas i b I e, standardizing detex hours arc cific goal while still others B r i a n student input. important initiatives that hope to restructure student Clemency and in the deci-should be taken up by whoev­government and increase its Daniel Chucta bring a valu­lights the importance of this sion is essential. er takes over the presidency. accessibility to the average able proposal to keep schedul­plank. Patrick McCormick and Luke White and Dan student. ing orientation-style activities Sean Deschene and Mike Brian Wahl have some inter-Hennigan 's irreverent 
All candidates value their for freshmen throughout the Revers have some important esting suggestions for the use approach to student govern­ideas and hope that even if semester, rather than abrupt­recommendations with regard of Stepan Center-. Making it menl could prove valuable in they don't win, their sugges­ly ending it when classes to improved technology use in into a disco club may not be a lightening the mood in a stu­tions for improving Notre begin. enrollment and DARTing. success, but devoting it to dent government which often Dame will make it to 203 Chris Costigan and Matt Scott Killen and Paul campus entertainment on a take:; itself too seriously. 
Some candidates have been written off as a joke, some don't even want to win, but all have presented a number of good suggestions that the winners should consider. 
THE WAYS AND MEANS. 

The Observer/Joe Stark The student body president and vice president are responsible for chairing meetings of student leaders, particularly Student Senate and Campus Life Council. They work closely with other student leaders to coordinate Student Union 
operations. 
Executive Cabinet 
• 
The chief of staff, HPC co-chairs, class presidents, off-campus co-presidents, SUB board manager, SUB programming director, clul:i coordinator the Student Union Treasurer and five _club c~uncil rep­resentat1ves sit on the Executive Cabinet. 

• 
The president chairs this body, which is respon­sible for coordinating the daily operations, prioritiesand programming of the Student Union. 




Student body president 
Student Senate 
• 
One representative from each hall sits on the Senate, along with one off-campus rep­resentative. 

• 
The Senate, which is chaired by the stu­dent body vice president, is responsible for formulating and advancing the position of ~he undergraduate studentnody on campusissues. 

• 
The Senate is also responsible for estab­lishing Student Union fiscal policies and for overseeing the operations of the Union. 


Judicial Council 
• The Judicial Council is responsible for 
overseeing elections and peer advocacy 
programs. 

Treasurer's Office 
• 
The Student Union treasurer is responsible for disbursing undergrad­uate student organization funds and ensuring that Student Union organiza­tions adhere to fiscal pol­icy. 

• 
The treasurer chairs the Financial Management Board, which makes funding recommenda­tions for clubs and orga­nizations. 


ELECTION '9 9 
Friday, February 5, 1999 page 3 


Brian 
Clemency 
Daniel 
Chucta 

Class/Major: Brian is a freshman pre-med major, and Chucta is a senior -he'll return for a fifth year -with a film production and design double major. 
IN THEIR WORDS Campaign Slogan: "A New Beginning, A Bright Future" Most Important Idea: Make government open to students. Most Feasible Idea: Direct election of other Student Union offices, like secretary and trea­surer. Least Feasible Idea: Eliminate the position of Club Coordination Council Coordinator. Notable Quote: "A government without the people can't be for the people." Prior Experience: Clemency comes off some high-school leadership positions: Chucta is on the Irish Guard. 
IN OuRWORDS The Best Ideas: Strengthen and lengthen Gender Relations Week; add gender relations and diversity retreats. Most Feasible: Expanding Gender Relations Week; making all meetings open to the public and in public places. Least Feasible: The sweeping constitutional reform, on which the Senate votes -but would it really vote to abolish itself? Also, moving student government out of its oflice space and moving The Observer back into LaFortune tit's a nice try, but if it were at all feasible, we'd be back over there already). Sound Bite: "Closed doors breed elitism -they remove students from the process." 
WHERE THEY STAND 

Student-Administration Relations: Increase understanding of both sides. Clemency sees it as a tough balance between pushing for student needs without isolating the adminis­tration. Inner-Workings of Government: The constitutional. reforms include eliminating Student Senate and replacing it with other bodies, renaming the president "representative at large," and making class government autonomous. Gender Relations: Instead of inundating freshmen with activities during orientation and letting things taper off later, Clemency proposed having socials and mini-retreats scattered throughout the year. Diversity: "Strengthen the understanding of different cultures and promote better rela­tions," the duo said. Off-Campus Students: Eliminate off-campus student government and give greater repre­sentation in other government bodies. 
What We Like: Clemency had energy and ambition which is rare in a freshman. Don't be surprised if you hear his name in the future. What We Don't Like: Clemency is eloquent enough to express his ideas, but shows little understanding that constitutional reform takes a long time to implement. Chucta did speak up softly a few times, but mostly let Clemency run the show. 
Class/Major: Both are freshmen; Costigan plans to be a government major, while Buyske is eyeing engineering. 
IN THEIR WORDS Campaign Slogan: "Why Not?" Most Important Idea: Restructuring the meal plans Most Feasible Idea: Getting cable in dorm rooms, like at Saint MaryOs. Least Feasible Idea: Getting kegs at on-campus parties by registering them with the dorm rector. Notable Quote: "You can quote me on that." Prior Experience: Buyske did not list any; Costigan is a volunteer fireman and EMT. 
IN OUR WORDS The Best Ideas: Having un-eaten dining hall meals meals convert to flex points at the end of the week so that the money is not wasted. Most Feasible: Establishing more programming to get students involved in diversity issues. Least Feasible: Unfortunately, getting cable TV in dorm rooms. Sound Bite: "You can't group all the Zahm candidates together as jokes." 
WHERE THEY STAND 

Student-Administration Relations: Costigan wants to see an increased voice for stu­dents, especially with regard to major issues like the Big Ten. Inner-Workings of Government: More interaction between groups. Gender Relations: More activities that extend beyond freshman orientation seminars. Diversity: Fostering interaction through service projects. Off-Campus Students: More involvement with campus, possibly through RecSports. What We Like: Costigan/Buyske rightly note that the flex meal plans need refining and that money Is wasted because on-campus students have to get large meal plans that charge $7 or $8 per meal even though they rarely -if ever -use them all. What We Don't Like: Though we admire Costigan for his voluntee/positions in the com­mt1nity, he does not seem solf-assured enot1gh to represent the students to the administra­tion, especially on tough issues. And Buyskc -well, he never came to meet us. 

Chris 

Costigan 
Matt 

Buyske 


ELECTION '9 9 
page4 Friday, February 5, 1999 

i--­
Class/Major: Deschene and Revers are both juniors; Revers is in Management Information Systems and Deschene is a computer science major. 
Sean
IN THEIR WORDS 

Campaign Slogan: "Two Common Guys, One Common Vision." 
Deschene
Most Important Idea: Increasing diversity on campus and promoting multicultural events; increase power of the student voice by making sure government and the administration hear it. Most Feasible Idea: Online DART and online enrollment. eliminating inconvenience of trekking to the Joyce Center for just 5 minutes. Least Feasible Idea: Though Deschene and Revers are intense about getting a student Board of Trustees member, they acknowledge that itOs something that can't be done in just one administration. but across several. Notable Quote: "We want to be t.he voice of the student body, not just the voice of the student government." Prior Experience: Deschene and Revers are new to student government. Both worked at cam­pus clusters through OJT and Deschene is a dorm RCC. Revers is an assistant systems manager at The Observer and Deschene deejays at WVFI. 
IN OUR WORDS The Best Ideas: Increasing student-faculty forums; helping Career and Placement offer more online services; bringing DART and enrollment online. Most Feasible: The technology-oriented ideas, which have been researched -and, it is an area of expertise for both candidates. Least Feasible: Having an influence on distribution offinancial aid. Sound Bite: "It's hard for students to come to student government if student government doesn't come to them, too." 
WHERE THEY STAND 

Student-Administration Relations: Get a student member of the Board of Trustees: presi­dent and vice president should constantly interact with the administration to get across student needs. Inner-Workings of Government: Work more openly to eliminate the perception of a stu­dent government clique. Gender Relations: Improved 24-hour space for more interaction between genders. Diversity: Forum on race relations. Off-Campus Students: Encourage students to congregate during the day at Senior Bar. pos­sibly by making it a coffee shop-area by day. What We Like: Deschene and Revers are a strong ticket. Their ideas are grounded in practi­cality and their technical know-how is appropriate, given that this presidency helps usher Notre Dame into the new millennium. What We Don't Like: Deschene tends to defer to Revers, whose public speaking ease seems better suited for the presidency. Also, the duo will have a lot to absorb if elected -the Constitution and parliamentary procedures are the tip of the iceberg. 


Chana 
Jayme 

Class/Major: Jayme is a junior from McGlinn and a graphic design/art history double major. Pe ate, a junior from Knott, is majoring in philosophy. 
IN THEIR WORDS Campaign Slogan: "Students for Students." Mosf Important Idea: Giving back to the students. Most Feasible Idea: Co-sponsorship of events, specifically to benefit gender relations and diversity. Least Feasible Idea: Getting a student on the Board of Trustees. Notable Quote: "We want all students to have the best possible experience at Notre Dame: socially, academically and spiritually." Prior Experience: Jayme is the McGlinn Hall president and a coxswain on the women's crew team, and has been her hall secretary. Last year, Peate was student body president at the 15,000-student Moorpark College in California and was the California College Association Regional President. He is now Knott Hall president and captain of the debate team. 
IN OUR WORDS 

The Best Ideas: Improving race relations and bringing diversity issues to the forefront by encouraging clubs to co-sponsor events. Most Feasible: Update and improve the Career and Placement center "for all the students on campus who want to be something other than a consultant or accountant." Least Feasible: Making La.Fortune open 24 hours. Sound Bite: "I'm not a government major pretending to play government." 
WHERE THEY STAND Student-Administration Relations: Open the lines of communication to ensure that the student voice is heard. Inner-Workings of Government: Increase the dialogue between different branches of governmeni. Gender Relations: increase 24-hour space on campus, improve gender relations week and have dorms and clubs co-sponsor events. Diversity: Focus on students and clubs working together to address the issues. Off-Campus Students: Facilitate activities that will draw them to campus and keep them informed of campus is$).eS, in part through their senators. What We Like: These two gel perfectly as a team, yet they retain their strong individuality. Both are familiar enough with government to get things done, yet possess a fresh perspective and readiness to work through all channels. What We Don't Like: The duo were vague about. plans to implement the Career and Placement improvements, another of their pet issues. 

Friday, February 5, 1999 

Scott 
Killen 
Paul 
Nebosky 
page 5 

Class/Major: Both are Zahm sophomores. Killen is an anthropology and Program of Liberal Studies double major. and Nebosky is studying mechanical engineering. 
IN THEIR WORDS Campaign Slogan: "We're Nice Guys" Most Important Idea: Increasing seating options for Notre Dame hockey fans at home games. Most Feasible Idea: An ethics review of business practices and pricing at the Notre Dame Bookstore. Least Feasible Idea: The hockey seating idea. Notab]e Quote: "We're in complete control over our campaign." Prior Experience; Both have worked in Zahm Hall government as section leaders and recycling and athletic commissioners. 
IN OUR WORDS 

The Best Ideas: Hockey seating; pushing for a better hockey arena; the ethics review of the Bookstore. Most Feasible: Revamping hockey seating and possibly student basketball seating as well. Least Feasible: The Bookstore would probably rather self-destruct; getting better parking for the off-campus students. Sound Bite: "Notre Dame expects us to act like adults. then treats us as less," Killen said. 
WHERE THEY STAND Student-Administration Relations: The ticket stands behind getting a student member of the Board of Trustees. Inner-Workings of Government: Citing Andrea Selak's example, Killen and Nebosky think the student body president and vice president should visit Hall meetings. Gender Relations: A parietals evaluation could help. according to Killen. Noting that it's unrealistic to promise complete elimination, they suggested compromising by targeting weekend parietals first. Diversity: The two support bringing the issue to the forefront Off-Campus Students: Killen argued in favor of offering closer parking for off-campus stud,ents -perhaps even on-campus parking. What We Like: Killen and Nebosky are two nice guys with solid ideas. and they articulated them well. What We Don't Like: The duo isn't running to win -rather, they want to disseminate their ideas for the benefit of the eventual victor. 
-

Class/Major: Kuder is a Zahm Hall junior Management information Systems major, and Priest is a Zahm junior computer engineering major. 
IN THEIR WORDS Campaign Slogan: "NO Football Rules" Most Important Idea: Football Ticket Redistribution Plan Most Feasible Idea: Notre Dame students getting football tickets before Saint Mary's stu­dents. Least Feasible Idea: "All of our ideas are based in feasibility." Notable Quote: "It's not just football, it's Notre Dame football." Prior Experience: Kuder sat on the SUB concert committee, is a Hesburgh computer lab !cam leader and served as Zahm's computer commissioner and the vice president of the Guitar Players' Association. 
IN OUR WORDS The Best Ideas: A satellite workout area for North Quad residents and others who dislike the trek to Hull's or the Hoc. Kuder suggested llaggar or Stepan as sites. Most Feasible: Generating stronger student support for the basketba!I team. Least Feasible: The convoluted and ultimately impractical football ticket idea, in which a quiz weeds out the true fans and gives them the right to line up for the best tickets. Sound Bite: "It is not our purpose to destroy Notre Dame/Saint Mary's relations." 
WHERE THEY STAND Student-Administration Relations: Both said they'd feel comfortable representing the administration to the students while strongly presenting student needs to the administration. Inner-Workings of Government: "Delegate, delegate, delegate." Gender Relations: Kuder and Priest explained their stance on gender relations by point­ing to their idea of having Saint Mary's students buy their football tickets last. Diversity: "We like it and we Lhink it's good." Off-Campus Students: Thoy plan to push for free parking for students who move of cam­pus, What We Like: Kuder and Priest interact well, and the satellite gym idea is savvy. 
What We Don't Like: "We need more things around here that everybody's talking about," 
ht!y said, but the campaign platform gives no real detail. They also seemed unwiUing to con­dt~r some of the logistical snags of their pet issue, football ticket redistribution. 
Bill 

Kuder 

-
-
Loe 
......
Priest 


--'99 
. 
page 6 Friday, February 5, 1999 

Class/Major: McCormick is a sophomore biology and gender studies double major; Wahl, a freshman, is undecided but will pursue a gender studies concentration. 
Patrick 
IN THEIR WORDS Campaign Slogan: "To Infinity and Beyond" 

McCormick
Most Important Idea: Flex points at Senior Bar Most Feasible Idea: Stepan Center discoteque/liquor store Least Feasible Idea: "All our ideas are feasible." Notable Quote: "Let's Get it On," from Judge Mills Lane. Prior Experience: McCormick captained the Zahm Hall basketball B-team in 1998. Wahl was class president of Newman Catholic for 2 years. 
IN OUR WORDS The Best Ideas: Flex points at Senior Bar. Most Feasible; Using proceeds from the Stepan disco/liquor store to solve budget problems for the Student Union. Least Feasible: Actually putting a combination disco and liquor store in Stepan Center: ending the tradition of enrolling a certain number of "legacies." Sound Bite: "We may not be running to win, but we want to get the ideas out there" 
WHERE THEY STAND Student-Administration Relations: "No comment." Inner-Workings of Government: "Improvement needed." Gender Relations: "Improvement needed." Diversity: "Improvement needed -we need to make minorities not afraid to come to this university." Off-Campus Students: "Not applicable." What We Like: Their platform reads, "We feel it is time that Notre Dame finally had a woman president," a campaign promise that takes on new meaning for an all-male ticket. What We Don't Like: McCormick wasn't at all articulate, and Wahl let him do all the talking. 
-
Brian 
Wahl 

Micah 
Murphy 

-
• 
L______" 


Class/Major: Murphy is a junior finance major from Keough Hall; Palumbo is a junior gov­ernment major from Keenan. 
IN THEIR WORDS Campaign Slogan: "Bringing It All Together." Most Important Idea: "To utilize the talents, resources and ideas of the students and other clubs and organizations on campus." Most Feasible Idea: Using co-sponsorship successfully Least Feasible Idea: A campus television station Notable Quote: "As president and vice president, we see ourselves as servants of the Notre Dame community," Murphy said. Prior Experience: Murphy is the Keough president and the head of the Trident Naval Society in the Navy ROTC battalion. He was also freshman class vice president. Palumbo is the secretary for the Student Union, the Executive Cabinet and the Campus Life Council. 
IN OUR WORDS The Rest Ideas: The "Last Lecture" series; campuswide spirit events like midnight pan­cakes in the dining halls during finals week. Most Feasible: Network for summer intern housing; most of the student services platform. Least Feasible: Establishing classes with diversity-related content (student government would have little to no say in this). Also: campus media renovations, establishing later final exam times. Sound Bite: "There's always an open-door policy on the second-floor of LaFortune." 
WHERE THEY STAND Student-Administration Relations: Strengthen the lines of communication; fight for what students deserve. Inner-Workings of Government: Promoting student government unity by "greasing the wheels" and fine-tuning the workings of each body. Gender Relations: Roundtable discussions; a gender relations week and mentor pro­grams. Diversity: A "celebrate ND" cultural festival: interactive campus forums and panels addressing diversity issues. Off-Campus Students: Increase their awareness of what's happening on campus; work with off-campus representatives. What We Like: Their experience; they've obviously made a commitment to student gov ernment. Palumbo's enthusiasm is infectious. What We Don't Like: Murphy and Palumbo have no rapport. They also seem reluctant to take risks, meaning that their tenure would be more of the same "play-it-safe" attitude we saw from Cesaro/Selak. 


Friday, February 5, 1999 
Wall)'
Poirier 
page 7 

Class/Major: Poirier is a junior government and history double major from Zahm. Smith is a sophomore architecture, math and economics triple major. 
IN THEIR WORDS Campaign Slogan: "We're Not Stupid Any More!" Most Important Idea: A confrontation with the bookstore over the ethics of its pricing and buyback procedures. Most Feasible Idea: Keeping the main floor of LaFortune open 24 hours. Least Feasible Idea: Developing the islands that exist on St. Joseph and St. Mary's lakes {much like a similar area Saint MaryOs has on its campus). Notable Quote: "Why you get what you get?!" (Poirier, reciting words from a sign at the Bookstore that he finds offensive.) Prior Experience: Poirier is Zahm's gender relations representative in hall govl1rnment; Smith is on Zahm's hall council. 
IN OuRWoRDs 

The Best Ideas: Forums for freshmen about gender and race relations; inw1stigating the Bookstore; regular student opinion polls. Most Feasible: Better lighting around the lakes; liPC Dorm Spirit Week; 24-hour basket­ball courts at the Rock. Least Feasible: A Barnes & Noble book sale/fair for Notre Dame students to offer a com­prehensive alternative to the Bookstore. Sound Bite: "The University needs to offer more entertainment on campus. our current choices aren't widely appealing and aren't entertaining. LaFortune Ballroom gets old quick­ly." 
WHERE THEY STAND Student-Administration Relations: Persistence and feasibility: need proper presenta­tion of ideas coupled with a willingness to fight for the students. Inner-Workings of Government: End exclusivity, so as lO understand campus concerns more universally; establish broader communication. Gender Relations: Need as many men as women to participate in finding solutions f'or problems of this nature. Diversity: Combat ignorance early, like at freshman orientation committee. Off-Campus Students: Need to communicate the opportunities for participating in campus activities. Also, possibly student government-sponsored activities off campus. What We Like: Poirier and Smith have a lot of good ideas for improving campus activities and aesthetics. Smith is a better match for Poirier this year because his ability to articulate himself improved. What We Don't Like: PoirierOs comfort-level with pushing the administration borders on being a hobby, and that could alienate government from the administration and impede progress. 
Class/Major: Turski, a sophomore from Badin. majors in science-business. Hobey is a Knott sophomore with a French-English double major. 
IN THEIR WORDS Campaign Slogan: "Bringing Student Government to Student Level." Most Important Idea: Putting Teacher-Course Evaluations on-line. Most Feasible Idea: Having campus-wide public forums for student government leaders. Least Feasible Idea: A separate "express" line for students at the Bookstore on home foot­ball weekends. Notable Quote: "The Big Ten= Big Zero." Prior Experience: Turski works for the Notre Dame Council on International Business l>nvelopment as the main contact for poland for the schools program. Hobey is a seventh­grade CCD teacher at St. Monica Church and works at bot.h campus radio stations. 
IN OUR WORDS The Best Ideas: Making TCEs available online could be a useful resource for students try­ing to decide between several classes or professors. Most Feasible: Campuswide forums and standardized detex hours so that the rules don't change from dorm to dorm. Least Feasible: An"express" line at the Bookstore that actually is any quicker during foot­ball weekends. Sound Bite: "Student Government needs a leader who's not so caught up in Student Government-type things." 
WHERE THEY STAND Student-Administration Relations: They want to improve relations by encouraging faculty to cat lunch with students. Inner-Workings of Government: Less emphasis on internal conflict and more on unity; addrnss issues that are pBrtinent to students. Gender Relations: The duo said more 24-hour space would facilitate student gatherings after parietals, which in turn could ease gender relations problems. Diversity: c;ive multicultural groups more space in which to meet; encourage hiring of multicultural professors. Off-Campus Students: Increase their representation in government bodies. What We Like: Turski and Hobey are two people who genuinely want the jobs and want to serve the student body. What We Don't Like: Hobey showed signs of life when he was allowed to speak for him­self in the interview (twice). But don't misunderstand -Turski did jump in on most answers, but she was not effusive. lier manner was detached and monotone. 

• 
•. 

r -----------~---------------·--------------~~-------­
'  '  9  
page 8  ·=· '  ·--.  _; -·. .  ', .  ;! ;:?; ·.. ., -;,;~ ,,;.-,  Friday, February 5, 1999  

Class/Major: Both are juniors; White is an English major, and Hennigan is pre-med, 
IN THEIR WORDS 

Luke 
Campaign Slogan: "We Love You." Most Important Idea: We should hade a club where we all get along and bake things. 

White
Most Feasible Idea: Kill the black devil swan and make his power our own. Least Feasible Idea: Convince Father Malloy to grow a goatee. Notable Quote: ..Remember, orderly transfer of power is always better than a bloody coup," Prior Experience: White is the editor-in-chief of Hight Reason; Hennigan ???????? 
IN OUR WORDS The Best Ideas: Convert the quads into a huge amusement park called Catholicworld; establish a "if you can catch it, you can eat it" rule around campus to control the squirrel population. Most Feasible: Kill all swans and replace them with flamingoes. Least Feasible: Eliminating the graduate school "leeches"; finding protective gear for the flamingoes so they will survive the winter. Sound Bite: "The black swan is the Devil, and the white swans are his minions." 
WHERE THEY STAND Student-Administration Relations: White contends that only relations between stu­dents married to administrators should be allowed. Inner-Workings of Government: Most student government problems can be fixed with an Allen wrench, in White's opinion. he recommends "a good quarter turn." Gender Relations: "We should make a co-cd leper dorm.'' Diversity: "Why does Notre Dame accept no Eskimos?" Off-Campus Students: "We love off-campus students and want to give each of them a puppy and a swan." White didn't comment on whether he'd kill the swan first. What We Like: In his song, "The Ballad of Daniel Hennigan," White played a mean guitar, and he has pretty good pitch too. His "healthy dose of surreality" was as entertaining as his campaign posters. What We Don't Like: "If you can catch it, you can eat it" works great for those squirrels (uh... trust us) but couldn't it also give rise to cannibalism? 
Dan 

Hennigan 

promises. "After Julie dropped out, LaFortune's corner office. 
"You can't promise anything evervone 'in the know' in stu­"Being able to serve the stu­
Caillpaign Cesaro
because you don't know exact­dent government though Mike dents who elected us and continued from page I ly what the [StudentJ Senate Palumbo would be the best," continued from page 1 make some changes and 
will do," Hennigan said, noting Murphy said. "He's the natural improvements has been really
ditlonal platform planks and that most issues in the typical choice." staying in touch with the fulfilling," said Selak. are focused on breaking down campaign platform must pass Murphy admitted that his average students. Cesaro agreed.the communication barriers through the senate. "We're current platform looks much "You have to make sure you "It really grounds you in between student government not making any promises. like the one he and Reising don't use student government what you're working for," he and students. Most people are taking it as a compiled. for student government's said. "It brings you a greater
Zahm candidates freshman joke. It's just to get a good "We didn't want to let every­sake," he said. "You have a appreciation and understand­Brian Clemency and senior laugh." thing on our platform die. duty to work for the students ing of our student body and Dan Chucta are also focused If elected, Hennigan said Obviously, I knew Julie more that elected you." the University itself. It's been on "changing the process." that the pair would resort to than anybody, but we've Ultimately. the pair express an honor to 'be student bodyThe pair wants to restructure "the stuff that's already on the added stuff from [Palumbo a sense of pride and a greater president and represent stu­Student Senate and have floor," like increasing campus and Gertken's] campaign," respect for Notre Dame after dents well and make Notre 
direct elections for student 24-hour space and restructur­Murphy said. spending a body secretary and treasurer, ing the football ticket lottery Between less-than-serious 
"We want our administra­system. campaigns and last-minute tion to be not just open to the Some candidates, like Zahm ticket changes, election orga­public but in the public," freshman Mario Pupillo, who niza tio n "has been crazy," Clemency said, noting that if began the race with no drive according to Nicole Borda, elected, he would move stu­to actually win, have aban­vice president of elections for dent government meetings to doned their campaigns. the Judicial Council. more public places like the "At first we just liked the "It upsets me and upsets the dining halls. "Our transition idea of making a difference or other candidates when we would be the most difficult to something," Pupillo said, "but know that people are in it for implement, but we're concen­we had a change of heart, I something like humor value," trating on eliminating tyran­guess." Borda said. "Turning this into ny." Others have replaced run­some kind of mockery upsets 
Zahm juniors Sean Deschene ning mates after personal situ­us because of the amount of and Mike Revers hope to make ations took their partners out hours we've been putting in student government more of contention. for the last few weeks trying 
Special

accessible to the average stu­Keenan junior Mike to organize this election." dent if elected. Palumbo, the vice presidential Since no by-laws or constitu­
Section

"We'd like to bring student candidate on~ junior Micah tional amendments explicitly 
government back to the stu­Murphy's ticket, originally provide protocol for ticket 
dents," said Revers, a vice­planned to run with Rhea changes. Borda explained that 
Staff 

presidential candidate. "It's Gertken. After being unoffi­each case must be dealt with very hard if student govern­cially slated as the vice presi­on an individual basis. 
• ment doesn't come to the stu­dential candidate under cur­"Since there's nothing say­dents for the students to come rent vice president Andr~a ing that they can't switch a to student government." Selak, who chose not to run, ticket if one [candidate] drops While Dillon juniors Luke Murphy began campaigning out of the race, we have to White and Dan Hennigan for the presidency with decide if it is illegal or not for 
.,. claim not to be a "protest tick­Pasquerilla East junior Julie these changes to be made. et," their print media cam­Reising. Reising dropped out Since [Reising] had a serious paign -which includes the of the race late Sunday night illness in her family. we slogan "Kill the Swans" -is for personal reasons, and her allowed it," Borda said. "It designed to comment on the vacated spot is now occupied changes daily who's on the impracticality of campaign by Palumbo. ballot." 
year in Dame a better place." 
Editor: 

Michelle Krupa 
Photos: 

Kevin Dalum Liz Lang Joe Stark 
Production: 
Anne Marie Mattingly Laura Pctelle 
Research: 

Heather Cocks Michelle Krupa Eduardo Llull Tim Logan Heather MacKenzie Brian Reinthaler 
M. Shannon Ryan 
t _ --_,, ---­
,.,_

w E 
ceneN D 

us s,or s 
' 

1vou said it, not usJ, Farlev girls smoke and Sorin asurvev of annroximatelv 100 people, to find out dorms, and off-campus students. The results are with the answers? 
Dillon Hall  
Obnoxious  Big Red  
Pangborn Hall  
Pretty  Unknown  
lvonsHall  
Heligious  Cool Archway  
Carroll Hall  
Far Away  Hermits  
O'Neill Hall  
Good Guys  Mardi Gras  
McGlinnHall  
Lice  Snobby  
Walsh Hall  
Alumni Kids  Rich  
Farlev Hall  
Smokers  Pop Farley  
Zahm Hall  
Gay  Clique-ish  
Stanford Hall  
Mr. Stanford  Athletic  
Knott Hall  
Orange I lats  Old Girls Dorm  

Pasuuerilla East 

Pyros Flag Football 
Lewis Hall 
Chicks Athletic 
SI. Ed's 

I ligh Cnilings Rich Boys 


-
-
About Dillon's Stareotvue: 

"Back in the day, Dillon was the biggest dorm and the most athletic. The RecSports champi­ons always got red shirts, and since Dillon always won RecSports events, they always wore red shins. And everyone called them the 'Big Red.'" 
Mark Roman, iunlor, DIiion Hall About Zahm's Steraotvpe: "r don't know any guys that are gay. I think the stereotype originated because Zahm is so dose, and has certain rituals, such as not letting other guys into Zahm parries. I think that the gay stereotype is just other dorms' way of being jealous." 
Former resident of Zahm Hall About McGllnn·s srereotrpe: "Really there were only a few case of lice, not the whole dorm. The lice started with some girl's little brother, it had nothing to do with girls not bathing." 
Marla Petrillo, sophomore, McGllnn Hall 
------....-.---------------------~------_.,-----·----------· 
page 14 
Hockey 
continued from page 24 
the third of the season between the two teams, with the Irish having won the previ­ous two this season. as well as the last three overall versus t h e Nanooks. 
The two wins over 
'THE lAKE STATE
UAF took 
place just [LOSS] WAS A GOOD t h r e e 
REMINDER FOR US THAT YOU 
we eken d 5 CAN'T PIAY ANYTHING BUI 
ago, when the Irish YOUR YOUR BFST,' won back-to -back games by DAVE Pouwv 
scores of 6­
FfocKRY HEAD COACH 
2 and 6-1. N o t r e D a m e showed itself to be the better

-team on the ice in terms of speed, physical play, special teams and goaltending. One major event took place between that series and this weekend's that could change the entire complexion of Saturday's contest, however. Nanuoks head coach Dave Laurion. Dave Poulin's former teammate and roommate at 
Notre Dame, has announced that he will resign as head coach following this season, his sixth with UAF. Last Saturday night, in fact, Laurion's team surprised the league by skating to a 2-2 tic against fifth-place Northern Michigan. 
Come Saturday, one real 
challenge for the Irish will be to come in men­tally focused against UAF fol­lowing Friday's showdown with Michigan State. 
It's just busi­ness as usual, according to team captain Brian Urick: 
"The way we look at it, it doesn't matter who we're play­
ing, we have to get ourselves mentally ready." 
On a similar note, coach Poulin reminded his team that no team in the CCHA should be taken lightly, as they should have already learned, 
"The Lake State [loss] was a good reminder for us that you can't play anything but your best if you want to win in this league," Poulin said. 


Meyo provides excitement at Irish track meet 
By BRIAN HOBBINS 
Spores Writer 
This weekend, the Fighting Irish track squads will host their final home meet before the Big East Championships. 
The Meyo Invitational promis­es to he an exciting meet featur­ing rare encounters with Southern powerhouses, such as Alabama. In addition to Alabama and other Southern squads, Illinois State will com­pete as will a few professional athletes. 
Contributing to the excitement is the fact that this meet will pro­vide many athletes who are "on the bubble" one last chance to prove themselves worthy of a trip to New York for the Big East Championships. 
Fresh off of a big win over Indiana last weekend. many of the women will be focusing on individual times as this week­endOs contest is unscored. Look

-
for solid performances from the usual suspects such as Llz Grow, Natalie Hallett, Jennifer Englehardt, Dore Debartolo and Patty Rice. Given the impending Big East meet, however, the teams hopes that other athletes to improve their performances as well. 
Grow comes into the meet after breaking records in the 200 and 400 meters. Coach Tim ConnellyOs appraisal of Grow's efforts indicates room for further improvement. 
"She is running just about what she ran in high school," he said. 
This weekend might provide the very competition Grow needs to reach her peak. 
Hallett is on an upwardly mobile state with an improving performance in the pole vault. Her height of 10' last weekend is still six inches shy of her person­a I record, which she should eclipse with a solid performance this weekend. 
Coming off a record-breaking performance last weekend, Debartalo should continue to improve on her marks this week­end on into the Big East week­end. 

Desiring to qualify for the NCAA champioships this year, proven jumper Englehardt is also hoping to improve on her performances over the past few weeks. 
Englehardt recognizes the strength of this weekend's field will motivate the team to excel. "There is a good representation of a great field of athletes," she said. "This is the last chance for many people before Big East, but I am confident." 
Finally, Patty Rice prepares to add to the list of impressive per­formances with strong distance running. Rice won two events last week and is hoping to improve on her times in prepa­ration for the Big East. 
The men's team is hoping to shake off a narrow loss to Indiana last week, while at the same time improving times and marks to claim a spot on the Big East roster. 
Highlighting the list of com­petitors is Marshaun West, who has already provisionally quali­fied for the NCAA Championships in both the long jump and 200 meters. Along with West in the long jump. Irish eyes will be on Mike Brown in the pole vault and Jay Hofner in the throwing pits. 
Terry Wray will finally have an opportunity to run his 500 meter specialty, while defending Big East championship Bobby Brown should have a solid performance in the 400 meters. In the 5000 meters Mark Striowski and Mike Griewe are expected to post solid times. 
Missing from the lineup will be sprinter Chris Cochran, who is resting a pulled hamstring, and freshman distance-running sen­sation Luke Watson, who is sav­ing his strength for the upcom­ing National Cross Country com­petition. 
Despite his inablility to com­pete, Cochran knows how much the Meyo Invitational means to the team and recognizes the probability of broken records and personal records. 
"Our track being so large helps a lot in improving time we are also defending our territory and having friends around makes it a big meet," he said. 

The undisputed highlight of the meet is the famed "Meyo Mile." This event is an open heat that features both top collegiate and professional athletes. For example, last year Olympian Paul McMullen received top billing in this race that features many established as well as up­and-coming superstars. 
Ryan Shay and Antonio Arce will represent Notre Dame in this prestigious race. Both are hoping to walk away with at least a personal record. 
Shay could not hide his excite­ment: "[The Meyo Mile] is a big attraction since it is the only event like this." 
All the action of the Meyo Invitational decends on Loftus Sports Senter tonight with many of the field and distance event..<;, and will resume Saturday after­noon, which allows few excuses to miss the excitement of this top-notch event. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. co 3 p.m. at rhe Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.rn. All classifieds muse be prepaid.
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edir all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
INTERNSHIPS University Directories offers paid.full-time summer sales and marketing intemships,open to all disciplines.College credit avail­able.Training program.Great resume booster! 1 (800)743-5556 or www.universitydirectories.com 
CRUISE SHIP EMPLOYMENT Workers earn up to $2,000+/month (w/tips & bane· fits).World Travel!Land·Tour Jobs up to $5,000-$7,000/summer.Ask us howl 517·336-4235 Ext.C55842 
NOTICES 
Spring Break Bahamas Party Cruisel5Nights $279!1ncludes Meals & Free Parties!Awesome Beaches,Nightlife!Departs From Florida!Cancun & Jamaica $3991 sprtngbreaktra11el.com 1 ·800-678•6386 
Spring Break Panama City $1291Boardwalk Room w/Kitchen Next To Clubs!7 Parties-Free Drinks!Daytona $1491South Beach $129!Cocoa Beach $149! springbreaktravel. com 1-800-678-6386 
Piano Trumpet Sax Guitar &Bass 
WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6BEDROOM STARTING $185 
MONTH/PERSON 
232-2595 
NICE HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND 8,6,4,3,BEDROOM 2773097 
'99-'00 LOADED!6 Bedrm. $800 mo. 273-0482/234·3831 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 

3 BDRM, DUPLEX, REMODELED,  VALENTINE ADS WILL APPEAR  
501EDDY ST.  FRIDAY, FEBRAURY 12. DEAD·  
1 Ml. FROM CAMPUS.APPL!·  Need a valentine gilt? Awesome  LINE IS 2 pm.FEBRUARY 11:••  
ANCES, W/D. 273-8332  hamster cage with bedding and  
food for sale. Call Monica and  Yeah, well, ok......  
5 &6 BDRM HOMES. 1999/2000,  Emily@ 243-1828  
SUMMER OR NOW.NEAR CAM- Hi diane. Is this a surprise enough  
PUS.FURN.GILLIS PROPER- couch & loveseat $250  for you!  
TIES.2726551  (w}284·4486 (h)277-3589  

no heartland tonight!  
HOUSE OR ROOMS AVAIL NOW.272·6551  TICKETS  amandaE you are a party-pooper'  
House for Rent  BOB DYLAN 1st. 5 ROWS  tonerE we need it. If you are run·  
Two Blocks from campus.  WWF. RINGSIDE 1st. 10rows  ning for p~esident, and you ha11e  
Available in June for Summer.  272-7233.  toner, weOII endorse you. No prob  
August for fall. Dishwasher,  !em.  
Washer/Dryer, full basement, large backyard, and off street parking.  PERSONAL  ben. I hope you lee! better!  
MONITORED SECURITY SYSTEM  
INCLUDED!! KITCHEN BEING  THIS SATURDAY!!!  groundhog day can be every day of  
REMODELED THIS SPRING! CAIi  the year.  
289-4712  Clap your hands, come out and  
dance with  then the wo~d would be a perfect  
Wanted: Roomales at ND  ALI SABA'S TAHIMI  place.  
apts for '99-'00 year and for  and  
summer '99 Call x4415  THE BUTTERFLY EFFECT  dear mike edwards•• sorry about  
at  your golf cart. thanks for the pholo  
FOR SALE  BENCHWARMER'S (232 S Michigan St)  opportunity, though! love, heather mac, photo joe,a nd  
10pm. 21 + See you there!  mike  
NEW Rates Phone Cards  -~--~--~------------------·-----------­ 
282 min.$20 call 258-4805  •••SEND YOUR SWEETIE A  you are really cool, dude. -----·-------------------------•---·  
89 Ford Probe GT (made by  VALENTINE IN THE OBSERVER  givas=cutie. love. a.w  
Mazda) $1600, call 634 4303.  CLASSIFIEDS!!!  

I
I i 
... 
!LOST & FOUND I Players for Shenanigans Band-for 3 big shows and optional spring break tour. Call Meg at 4-2573, 
JACKET LEFr IN FARLEY ON FRIDAY NIGHT. CALL K4097TO SPRING BREAK BEACHES CLAIM. Daytona.Panama 
City,Padre,Miami,Cancun,Jamaica, Lost, one white little yellow, pink, Bahamas.etc.Best brown, spotted terrier. hotels.prices.parties.

,. Call if found Browse www.icpt.com. 
~ 
X1502 Reps earn cash.free trips.Call Inter-Campus 800-327·6013 
WANTED 
SUMMER CAMP 
OPPORTUNITIES SALES &MARKETING Northern Minnesota coed children's 

The Observer• SPORTS Friday, February 5, 1999 
Lose something, Mike Edwards? 

Notre Dame basketball reserve Mike Edwards' golf cart, pictured here, turned up on the top steps of Bond Hall early this morning. "The cart was chained, so they must have carried it,• Edwards said at 
2:48 a.m. "It was quite amusing, but I will not press charges against the cart thieves." 
camp seeks enthusiastic and dedi· cated counselors who enjoy work• ing with kids outdoors.Instructors needed in Archery,Biking,Boardsailing,Canoei ng,Crafts.Diving,Fishing,lifeguards, Sailing,Snorkeling,Swimming,Tenni 
s,Trip Leaders Waterskiing,& Woodshop.Rep in LaFortune Student Center 2/8 at table across from elevators from 10·3 Contact Camp Foley at 218· 543-6161 or http://www.campfo· ley.corn 
FOR RENT 


Friday, February 5, 1999 The Observer• PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 

-
--
• 



r ·--......-. ~----~---------­
page 16 The Observer• SPORTS Friday, February 5, 1999 
¦ OLYMPICS 

IOC drug resolution rejected 
A.sociarcd Press 
LAUSANNE, Switzerland 
No matter how hard they tried to claim victory, International Olympic Committee leaders couldn't dis­guise the reality: Their authori­ty has eroded even further. 
In a blunt rejection of that leadership, the 15 European Union governments refused to accept a watered-down final resolution at the Olympic drug summit, which ended Thursday. 
Their stance was a sharp set­back for the IOC and its presi­dent, Juan Antonio Samaranch, as they struggled to regain credibility in the wake of the Salt Lake corruption scandals. 
"These issues are bigger than 

-
the IOC," British Sports Minister Tony Banks said. "It might come as a surprise to the IOC to find there is actually something bigger than the IOC, but there is." 
The U.S. Olympic Committee, the IOC's most important national branch and a consis­tent ally of Sarnaranch, offered only lukewarm support. 
When Samaranch called the meeting a "big victory" in the fight against doping, USOC executive director Dick Schultz countered: "Everybody tends to exaggerate." 
"It's one of the IOC's first experiences with democracy and they had to learn how to deal with it," he said. 
While the conference laid the groundwork for major anti­drug initiatives, the resolutions fell far short of the tough, immediate action the roe need­ed to reassert its legitimacy. 
The IOC had to back off the two main planks of the meeting: creating an international anti­doping agency and imposing a mandatory minimum two-year drug sanctions. 
"The IOC is too weak," said Roland Baar, a member of the IOC athletes' commission. 
Even a top IOC leader conced­ed the three-day meeting failed to accomplish what the commit­tee had hoped for. 
"We haven't dealt with it," IOC vice president Dick Pound said. "We are now in a position to do so." 

-
The U.S. government. which had serious reservations about 
parts of the IOC plan, voted for the revised package. But Barry Mccaffrey, the White House drug policy adviser who had attacked the IOC's credibility and called for reforms, described the final declaration only as a "good first step." 
Samaranch fired back at McCaffrey in his closing news

-conference, suggesting the White House was in no position to lecture. "We are very thankful he is so interested in the IOC." Samaranch said. "But we also told him he had many problems in his own country on doping." Samaranch has withstood calls for his resignation from outside the committee, and wrapped up the summit by say­ing the IOC emerged "stronger" -"'-•"'= 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
•Used 
books uought and sold 

•25 
Categories of Books 

•25,000 
Hardback and Paperback hooks in stock 


•Out-of-Print search service: $2.00 
•Apprai~als 1.irge and small 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232-8444 
from the conference. 
But the USOC appeared to back off its previous unqualified support for him. 
Two weeks ago, Schultz said the USOC fully supported Samaranch and believed he was the only person capable of leading the IOC out of its crisis. 
On Thursday, he said: 
"I don't see any reason to change the position at this point as long as we are making progress and moving forward and that he can still command the respect of IOC members. 
"I don't think our position has changed. r think that we feel there needs to be consistency to get through this crisis and that he is probably in the best posi­tion to do that." 
Samaranch has been in power since 1980 and plans to stay until his term ends in 2001. He will put his leadership to a vote of' confidence at a spe­cial IOC assemblv March 17-18. lOC members will also vote on proposals to change the process for selecting host cities and expel members implicated in the Salt Lake case. 
The Sydney Morning Herald, whose parent company is a local partner of the 2000 Olympics, said Thursday that Samaranch "must carry the ultimate responsibility for crisis that is engulfing the Olympic movement. He is not an answer to the problem. He represents the problem." 
Meantime, the proposed anti­doping agency will be discussed again at a meeting with sports and government leaders this spring. 
The conference agreed to set 
r-----------------, r----------------,

: I 10 tanning : I : 1 month : : sessions : : of unlimited tanning : 
I I I I 
:L _________________s30 J: : s3s Jl
L ________________ 
NEW!
University Commons Southland Plaza Grape & McKinley

by UP Mall al Ireland & Ironwood near KMart 

272-7653 291-2000 256-9656 
I . 


the home or' 3en ,le prwe@ for, gpein3 bl'eak 
discountbraak.com 
,efi:Jre 

s~ve moneu 011 u_ouf OcEANfRDNT hotel "after 
-VJSJtmg d d 
visiting 
''\ your site your site 
1 wondered 

discountbreak.com 
springbrcak looks
book toll---wee ckeel-110 middle mgnl 
just a 
p1pc­
dawm, right 

up the agency, but details on the structure, mission and financing were put off for up to three months. Officials said the goal is to have the agency up and running before the Sydney Games. 
Banks and other government officials refused to give the IOC a leading role in the doping agency, which would supervise worldwide drug testing and pol­icy on an initial $25 million budget. 
"The chairing of that inde­pendent agency by president Samaranch would compromise it," Banks, the British Sports Minister. said. "It would not be independent. We cannot accept that." 
Pound said governments could have a 50 percent role in the agency -but would be expected to contribute finan­cially. 
The IOC also was forced to allow each sport to ignore a minimum two-year ban in drug cases where they find "excep­tional circumstances." 
Some of the biggest sports, including soccer, cycling and tennis, argued that a two-year ban for a first offense would hold up to challenges under right-to-work laws. 
Banks warned that this opened an "enormous loop­hole." 
"This is minimalist and per­missive," he said. "It under­mines the two-year ban." 
In November, the IOC threat­ened to expel from the Olympics those sports that failed to adopt the two-year ban. Thursday's resolution made no mention of expulsions. 



Notre Dame Deportment of Music Presents 
Ethan Haimo, piano 
Faculty Artist 

\\How to Listen to 12-tone Music" 
on Interactive Recital/ Lecture 
2:00 p.m., Sunday, February 7, 1999 
Hesburgh Library Faculty Lounge The concert is free and open to the public. 
Please coll (219) 631-6201 for more information. 
a ¦ 


,....------------------------~--­
Friday, February 5, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page I7 
first half'. 
¦ FENCING
Notre Dame broke away in

Women 
the second when it returned to keeping the defense busy cov­

continued from page 24 
ering Riley. 

Fencers take a stab at the South 
makes us an excellent team." 
The anchor for this year's team, like the 1997 team with Katryna Gaither, has been a dominant, physical center. But 6-foot-5 Huth Hiley has been the target of opponents' defenses all season long, leav­ing the Irish to search for more options than just a pass inside lo their star. 
Boston College was able to limit Hiley with such a defense Wednesday. holding her to only three first-half points. With the Irish unable to land the shots from outside, thll Faglcs hung on for most of the 
"When we get the ball into Ruth a little more. that opens the outside up," said McMillen. 
McGraw's defense has been the team's strength in building the current win streak. After not allowing its last five oppo­nents more than 61 points, controlling Seton Hall will be a simple assignment for the Irish. Not one Pirate scored in double digits as Erika Ashmon and Arminda Moreno lead their team with nine points apiece. 
The Irish and the Pirates battle at 2 p.m. on Saturday. 


r4NOTRE DAME 
~.. FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Spores Writer 
The 11-1 men's and 10-2 women's fencing teams travel to Tobacco Road today and Saturday to take on stiff compe­tition in Duke, North Carolina, Air Force and Rutgers. 
All four squads finished in the top 25 last year, with Rutgers placing the highest at 10th. The Falcons managed an 18th-place finish while the Tar Heels and the Blue Devils finished 19th and 22nd. respectively. 
The competition this weekend "'ill be significantly tougher than last week, when the Irish faced only one tough opponent in Ohio State's women's team. 
Last year the Irish swept the competition. The men's team decimated Ilutgers 19-8, Duke 19-8, North Carolina 23-4, and Air Force 20-7. The women's team was equally impressive, 

downing Rutgers 20-12, Duke 23-9, North Carolina 23-9 and Air Force 26-6. 
Traditionally, none of these four teams has posed a chal­lenge to the Irish. Both the men's and women's teams are undefeated against Hutgers, Duke and North Carolina. The men lead the Air Force series 18-6, while the women have dropped only one match to the Falcons en route to a 12-1 record. 
The matches this weekend should provide a chance for the Irish to further increase their confidence and continue their winning ways from last week­end. Another undefeated week­end by the two squads would most likely put them in a posi­tion to enter the Midwest Intercollegiate Championships at the top of their game. 
An unexpected set back would not hurt the Irish too much as 
Get on-line with Notre Dame Federal Credit Union's FREE Home Banking Service. Internet Banking On-Line. As a Member, you can enjoy secure access to your accounts day or night. Check balances, pay bi Ils, transfer money. All from the privacy and convenience of your Home or Office. 
• 
FREE Secure Access to your. accounts 

• 
FREE Stock Quotes 

• 
Compatible with Quicken or Microsoft Money 

• 
Financial Wizard™ Calculators 

• 
Plus low-cost Electronic Bill Payment Service 


Get on-line today with Notre Dame Federal Credit Union's FREE HomeBanking 
@ 
www.odfcu.org 

Find out how you 4l1alily for Mcmhcrship e-mail: ndh:urwndlcu.org 
lndcpcmknt or the Uniwrsity
219 219-1,(,J I • !WO 522-6!,J I 
they would still have two weeks 
to bounce back before Midwest. 
"l think the team's goal is to go 
undefeated the rest of the sea­
son," head coach Yves Auriol 
said. 

Going into this week's compe­
tition. Auriol's career record 
stands at 398-23. His .943 win­
ning percentage surpasses even 
the .938 winning percentage of 
legendary Irish fencing coach 
Michael DeCicco. who led the 
Irish to five national champi­
onships in 34 years. 
The Irish should have no prob­
lems picking up the two victories 
necessary to give Auriol his 
400th career Irish victory. 
"[Picking up the 400th victory1 is important to the team," foil captain Stephane Auriol said. "It is a milestone that not many coaches reach.·· 
The men's foil team hopes to build on its impressive play in Durham. Last weekend. Stephane Auriol, junior Charl<ls Hayes and freshmen Steven Mautone hid the squad to a 39-8 record in bouts over the week­end as they swept the competi­tion. 
The men's epee squad. with the emergence of freshman Brian Casas as a strong comple­ment to senior all-American Carl Jackson, also had an excellent weekend against the Midwestern opponents. 
The always-dominating Irish sabre squad hopes to slash the Scarlet Knights, Blue Devils. Tar Heels and Falcons and add them to the long list of teams that have fallen to the might of cap­tain Luke LaValle's squad. The sabre squad is undefeated on the year and has been most impres­sive against top competition like Stanford and Penn State which were defeated 7-2 and 8-1 respectively. 
The women's side picked up a confidence-boosting victory owr a tough Ohio State squad last weekend and hopes to sweep the competition in Durham. 
All-American foilist Sara Walsh battled through a diflicult leg injury to beat back tough competition and continue her undefeated season. She will look to travel furtlrnr down the road to perfection and a possible sec­ond NCAA title in f'oil. 
The women's cpee team fought the toughest match of last weekend when it defeated Ohio State 9-7. All-American captain Nicole Mustilli and junior all­American Magda Krol were par­ticularly effective against the Buckeyes, posting 3-1 and 4-0 records respectively. 

ALL FEATURES IN ULTRA STEREO 
PAYBACK (R} 

1:45, 2: 10, 4:20. 5:35. 7:05. 8:00, 9:40, 10:25 
SAVING PRIVATE RYAN 
1:40, 5:15, 9:20 

SIMPLY IRRESISTABLE (PG-13) 
2:15. 4:40, 7:25, 9:50 
MIGHTY JOE YOUNG (PG) 
2:00, 4:45, 7:40,10:20 
PATCH ADAMS (PG 13) 
1:35, 2:30, 4·10. 5:10. 7:20, 7:50. 10:00, 10:30 PRINCE OF EGYPT (PG) 
2:20. 3:20, 4:50, 5:40, 7:35, 8:05. 9:55. 
10:35 SHAKESPEARE IN LOVE (R) 1:50, 4:30, 7:55, 10:35 
STAR TREK: INSURRECTION (PG) 
1:30, 2:35, 4:00, 5:20. 7:00, 7:45. 9:35, 10:25 THIN RED LINE (R) 1:20, 3:00, 4:55.7:00. 8:30 
WAKING NED DEVINE (PG) 
2:50, 5:00, 7:15. 9:30 T' I'd th h ITh d
I 

•No passes 
-
-
-

page 18 The Observer• SPORTS Friday, February 5, 1999 
¦ NBA 

New season starts off looking for a breath of fresh Air 
Associate Press 
It'll start like this: Larry Bird's team will break from a huddle and walk to center court at Market Square Arena. 
The place will be rocking. the ball \Yill go up. someone will win the tip and the NBA season ­aftt>r a bi!lt>r lockout, the retire-11H'n l of \lichael Jordan and brief training camps -will finally begin, 94 days late. 
··or course everyone would like to see Michael still in the league, but he is not and the league will continue to go on." Bird said. "And there will be new champi­ons, not only this year but as the 

-
years pass." 
Bird's team is being cast as the favorite in this abbreviated SO-game season, and Indiana will be the site of the first action as the Pacers play the Washington Wizards in a 7 p.m. EST start. 
Another 11 games will be played around the league, mak­ing for an extremely busy open­ing night. 
Everyone better get used to it. 
Busy nights will be common­place in the NBA this season as teams squeeze all their games into just 13 weeks. 
"I think you will see a lot more intensity. The only problem I foresee is that if you have a major injury to one of your star players -if he misses a couple weeks -that's a lot of games," Bird said. "I think the team that stays the healthiest has probably got a better opportunity to win." 

And the flip side, of course, is that the injured teams will be in for a struggle. 
The Charlotte Hornets have already lost their two best play­ers, Glen Hice and Anthony Mason, to injuries. Combined with the loss of centers Matt Geiger and Vlade Divac and guard Dell Curry to free agency, the Hornets will have a tough time when they open at home against the Philadelphia 76ers. 
In other games, it's Cleveland at Atlanta. Detroit at Miami, Toronto at Boston, New York at Orlando. Sacramento at San Antonio, Minnesota at Denver, Chicago at Utah, Dallas at Seattle, Houston at the Los Angeles Lakers and Phoenix at the Los Angeles Clippers. 
"I think it's important to start with a little more urgency and get some wins early on," Phoenix Suns coach Danny Ainge said. 
What remains to be seen is how the fans will respond. 
When the baseball strike ended in 1995, the backlash from the public was fierce. 
Longtime fans stopped going to games, casual fans stopped watching on TV and a trio of New Yorkers even ran onto the field at Shea Stadium and threw $1 bills at the players, a la Abbie Hoffman's famous protest gim­mick on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange. 
No one is quite certain how any fan backlash might manifest itself in the NBA, but the league has been taking steps to mend fences with its paying cus­tomers. 
If there's one factor that may draw them back more than any­thing else. it's the heightened competition that comes with every game meaning a little bit more and every team having a little more of a chance. 


"I think the true NBA fans are going to be the ones who obvi­ously were disappointed with the lockout but are just very, very happy that we're back to playing," Knicks coach Jeff Van Gundy said. "vVhat they want to see is good play, hard play, com­petitive play." 
Knicks fans have already taken a liking to the team's newest scorer, former Golden State guard Latrell Sprewell, who will be playing his first reg­ular-season game in more than 14 months when the Knicks play the Magic. 
Elsewhere, it'll be a rematch of the NBA Finals, sort of, when the revamped Bulls travel to Utah to play the Jazz. Chicago will be without several key members of its now-deconstruct­ed dynasty, including Jordan, Scottie Pippen, Dennis Rodman, Luc Longley, Steve Kerr, Jud Buechler and Scott Burrell. 
In a sign of how much things have changed since last June, this would-be marquee matchup will not even be shown on national television. 
"It's just one of 50 games we've got to play well in to make a run at the playoffs." Karl Malone said. "Michael, Scottie and Dennis were the 1:3ulls. It's not like that anymore." 
The Jazz are widely being picked as the favorite to come out of the West, but the competi­tion will be tougher now that Pippen has joined Hakeem Olajuwon and Charles Barkley in Houston. 
Rockets coach Hudy Tomjanovich scoffed when somebody pointed out that his frontcourt is comprised of three Hall of' Famers while his back­court is comprised of consider­ably less. 
"To have three superstars in the lineup at one time is not easy. There is only one basket­ball, so we have to have some guys who will make sacrifices and be program players," Tomjanovich said. 
The next 90 days, and hectic days they will be, will determine who makes the playoffs and tries to succeed the Bulls as champi­ons. 

Dancing Through 

the Decades!! 
Alumni-Senior Club Saturday, February 6, 1999 
10 a.m. -2 p.m. 
Free Drinks, Wings and More!! 
Everybody is welcome!! 


Brought to you by the Student Activities Office, Class of 2001, and Class of 2002. 

-

Friday, February 5, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 19 
¦ COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Cummings finds mysterious back injury the Pitts 
Associated P rcss 
PITTSBUHGH 

l'iltsburgh 's basketball t1iam. already rocked this sca­so n by a player arrest and coach Halph Willard's resigna­tion. will be without leading scorer Vontecgo Cummings for at least one game and pos­sibly longcir. 
Cummings has a stress­related back injury that will sideline him for Saturday's game against No. 9 St. John's and. likely, Monday's game at Seton Hall. 
The Panthers (11-10. 2-8 Big East) hope the 6-foot-5 Cummings can return for their Feb. 11 game at Hutgers, but il depends how he responds to rest and treatment. 
Willard said Cummings has played in pain for several weeks and was hurting so bndly following Tuesday's 76­58 loss al Georgetown that the senior guard was "crying in the locker room." 
"It's been bothering him for a while," Willard said. 
Willard, who resigned Monday after failing to take Pitt to the NCAA tournament in his four-plus seasons as coach, initially suspected Cummings had a stress frac­ture in his back. Such an injury could have sidelined Cummings indefinitely. 
But a CAT scan performed Wednesday by Dr. Craig Bennett of Pitt's medical staff determined that Cummings 
'ITHINK THE REASON 
WE'RE LOSING THFSE GAMF.S IS ME. SOMETHING IS WRONG WITH MY BACK. I DON'T KNOW WHAT IT IS.' 
VONTEEGO CUMMINGS 
PnTSENIOR 
has a stress reaction in his back, an injury not as serious as a fracture. 
Cummings scored eight of his 10 points in the first half 
LEARN ABOUT LAW SCHOOL 
Loyola University Chicago School of Law 
will be at Haggar Parlor of St. Mary's on 
February 8, 1999 
11 :30 AM -12:30 PM 
Pamela Bloomquist, Director of Law Admission/Financial Aid, will present topics included in presentation: 
O'Toole Scholarship for St. Mary's Students Financial aid planning for law school The admission process-an insider's view 

Contact: Dr. Sean Savage at St. Mary's for further information 

WSND Nocturne Nightflight 
88.9 FM is 
g1v1ng away a Ninteno 64 
•

gaming system 

~... 
.,;~f,<:;,:ti~,. 
~...--:,i: o..s"':<-i,.l.:...\t,i,',;.,,Ml ..:,J,~•~-­

RADIO u.:~-:~~.~:,,;;r,t,-:,,,;ttcJ,w. 88.9 FM 
of the Georgetown game, but was noticeably bothered by his injury in the second half. 
Considered by NBA scouts to be a likely first-round draft choice, Cummings has clearly been off his game in recent weeks, a slump that has coin­cided with Pitt's string of 10 losses in its last 15 games. The Panthers started 6-0. 
"I think the reason we're losing these games is me," Cummings said after the Georgetown game. "Something is wrong with my back. I don't know what it is. I'm good for the first half but in the second half I'm no good. I have to help my team more. If I can't, I shouldn't play." 
Cummings' scoring average has fallen to 16.6 overall and 
13.8 in the Big East, and he is shooting 42.8 percent. 
Cummings has played up to his early-season form only once in recent weeks, a 31­point performance in an 86-65 loss at Villanova on Jan. 19. Hours before that game, Pitt freshman guard Fred Primus was arrested on theft charges for stealing $2,200 worth of jewelry and was thrown off the team. 
Five days later, guard Kellii Taylor rejoined the Panthers after missing six games for alcohol rehabilitation. 
Willard resigned Monday, two days after a 60-54 upset of then-No. 23 Miami, after athletic director Steve Pederson could not assure him of returning next season. 
Pederson has already begun looking for a successor, with former St. John's coach Fran Fraschilla among those men­tioned as being interested. He was fired last spring and is scouting this season for the New York Knicks. 
r".-i
,.;>../
~/-!
L' '. 
/"'\ 
}/i~t:_ 
';/l}tcl-f 

with new memory pack and the new Rogue Squadron game next Saturday, Feb. 13. 


Courtesy ot Pittsburgh Sports lnformauon 
Pittsburgh swingman Vonteego Cummings blames his recent lack of production for his team's misfortunes. Pitt got off to an excellent start this season, even beating defending champion Kentucky. 

-
-
-
... 

page 20 The Observer• SPORTS Friday, February 5, 1999 
¦ fRISH (NSIGHT 

Students shut out of 'Showdown at the Joyce' 
students walking around, and, thing trivial, but instead got a chance. move outside." They didn't By TED FOX quite frankly, I think just problem. Were we ever wrong. even offer us any of the free T­Sports Writer about everyone was cold Yes, they expected to actual­Before six even came, the shirts they were giving away. before they were gripped by ly get tickets when they went people at the front of the line The mass of students left the 
It was high noon, and the nervous expectation. up to the ticket window. started to go into the JACC to JACC, still wondering where it streets were deserted except Still, as we all waited in line "Preposterous!" you say. get tickets. Almost as soon as all went wrong. No one knew for a few brave souls. The sun for the 350 tickets that the front ranks of the why they hadn't been given a 
beat down with incredible were to be given out to line moved in, someone fair shot at seeing the game. intensity on the parched students free of charge came out and shut the College is supposed to be ground as people looked on for the Notre Dame doors. saying there were about the students and college
'COLLEGE IS SUPPOSED TO BE ABOUT
with nervous expectation from versus Michigan hock­no more tickets. sports about studonts cheering their windows. The battle lines ey game, the first 350 THE STUDENTS AND COLLEGE Now, I wasn't sitting on their fellow students. If you had been drawn, and the people all did have a SPORTS ABOUT STUDENTS CHEERING. IF there counting, but the take away the students. 
inevitable conflict was soon to few expectations simi-number of students that there's not much left. follow. lar to those back at the YOU TAKE AWAY THE STUDENTS, THERE'S got in was no where near I guess it's possible that 350 Yes, for a few brief moments ranch. 350 N unless you multi-tickets don't go as far as they
NOT MUCH LEFT.' 

last Saturday, the corner of They expected to see plied those who did get used to. Maybe it's inflation or Juniper and Moose Krause a great battle -one of in by the number of peo­something like that. Circle. in front of the immense college hockey propor-ple who enjoyed the pre­Still, a lot of students who structure known as the JACC, tions -between two miere of the "Family deserved to see that game 
was transformed into the OK of the sport's premier teams. Well, I'm just guessing, but I Guy" on Fox after the Super missed the chance to be Corral. They expected to cheer as figured that's why they all Bowl. pounding on the boards or 
Well, maybe not. It was their side did controlled the started lining up two and a And tu make matters worse, harassing Michigan's goalie. actually closer to six at night, action and groan when the half hours before the dropping no one from the JACC or the They missed the hard battle the ground hadn't been tide seemed to turn. of the puck. At the very least, University came out to tell us fought over the frozen sheet of parched in about eight Most of all, however, these that's why I was waiting there. that there were no tickets left. ice. They missed the chance to months, there were a ton of 350 students expected some-The tickets were supposed to We had to rely on the accounts just be college kids at a hock­
be distributed around six, and of fellow students returning ey game. everyone in my area figured from the front lines. What all this amounts to, I'm we must have been right Quite a few of us went in to not sure. One thing I do know around the 350 ticket border­see what was going on. There for sure, however: that line. We weren't sure if we didn't seem to be many Saturday night at the corner of would get tickets, but there answers, except for: "If you Juniper and Moose Krause seemed to be a pretty good don't have a ticket, please was definitely not OK. 
~ ~ V 
: • "''j;__ Ya[entine's 'Day ..'Ads "'X :• 
• :for on{y $20 you can te{[ your sweetlieart liow • -: much you [ave him/her with a syeciaCVa{entine's : FREE REFILL • 'Day atfin Tfie 06se1i/er. •
~ KERASOTES THEATRES on Alf Sizes of 
Popcorn & Soft Drinks!
~ visit our website at www.kerasotes.com 

• For~l,e,(,showrvo.ct'i,.u;;w~): • 
SHOWPLACE 16 • 299-6063 TOWN &COUNTRY' • 299-6063 
All Stadium Seating• All Digital Sound 2340 N. Hickory Rd. • Mishawaka 
W. of Main St. on Chippewa• South Bend $4 00 •All Shows Before 6 pm ~ .t : 
: Advance Ticket Sales Available tP<,f .L : • •Students •Seniors ,/ Q.. , . s4oO•AIIShowsBefore6pm_,,/ 0, •A Simple Plan (R) 

. ------------------· . 
• •Students •Seniors , [1 :30] 7:00, 9:40 
Sat-Sun•Mon Mattlneas [BRAKETS] 

: 1L"ve 1J"v1, f'e553/ ~-ue!! :
SHFuu THAT{PG-13J : Varsity Blues (R) 
[11:10,1:liOJ 4:15, 6:50, B:20 [2·15] 4·45 7· 15 9·35
PAYBACK (RI . . ' . ' . r11:4o, 12:20, 2:10. 2:5DJ4:45, 5:20, : Gloria (R) 1:10, 7:50,s:4o, 10:20 2·oo 4 30 7 15 9 45 

. ----.
VARSITY BLUES (Rl 
. : ' : ' : 111:41i, 2:15] 5:10, 7:40, 10:05 ~T ARST SIGIIT (PG-13)[1:2014:ZO, 7:05, 8:50 
SIMPLY lftRESlllTABLf IP1l-13! [12:00, 2:40] 5:00, 7:15, 8:30 SAVING PRIVATE RYAN (R) [11:50} 3:45, 7:45 


:. • \>\c\u,~v-~'{Q, • :.
ONLY $1 00 All Shows Before 6pm IN DREAMS (R) 
TIIE Tl9'I RED LINE (RI [12:1 OJ 4:00, 8:15 
• Everyone• Everyday 
\\\c;Q,'i\ 
[12:15, 2:45] 5:30, 8:10, 10:25 
$1.50 All Evening Shows :J 6. 

-
ACIVIL ACTION IPG-13) 111:00,1:301 4:30, 7:00, 8:45 SHAKESPEARE IN LOVE (R) 
.• ---~ .•
The Waterboy
[11:15, 2:00] 4:50, 7:30, 10:16 MIGHTY JOE YOIJilG (PG) 11:10]3:50,8:45,8:30 
[2:00, 2:30] 4:40, 5:10, 7:10, 7:50, 
PATCH ADAMS (PG-13) [1:00l4:D5,B:55•, 9:35 
9:20, 10:00
r•no show on Sat., February BJ 

• #t\J'f1/ V""lent-int-'$ P""f-J! L"Ve., 1Sv1~~1/ •
Enemy ol the State (R)
STEP MOM (PG-13) 11:1514:40, 7:20, 10:00 
THEFACUI.TY (RI 

. ......................... .
[1 :30] 4:15, 7:00, 9:40
112:30, 3:00] 5:30, 8:10, 10:25 YOU'Vl' GOT MAB. (PIH 
Something About Mary CR)
u1:ao, 2:2015:15, a:oo·,10:ao 
[1:40] 4:30, 7:15, 9:45
(•no show on Sat, February BJ 
PRINCE Of EGYPT {PG) 

: '.Reser-ve your aasyace 6y J'ebruary 10th, anayour Sweetfieart :
Rush Hour (PG-13}
[11:20, 1:45] 4:10, 6:40, 9:10 
S/'EAK PRfl/lIWSI! 
[2:20] 4:50, 7:30, 9:50 

• .'Aawi«6e in Tfie 06ser-ver on J'ebruary 12tfi. .'Affads (ana •
MUS~GE WABOIBE (PG·13)

-
Jack Frost (PG)
7:45 SAT, FfB eoru 

• money) must 6e turneain 6y J"ebr-uar-y utfi at u:oo am. •
UAr #S011/H:Ufsr fOR rot/'l'f /JOT M*(l AT 10:/f(J 
[1 :50] 4:20, 6:50, 9:10
OCTOIIBI SKY (Pt:-13) 
7:Ztl SAT, Fm 8 OM.Y 
115 

• Ca{{1-6900 or visit us in the basement ofSoutfi 'Dining Jfa{[ •
: : 

#9 HOCKEY a•l't. 
VARSITY SHOP · . V.IT., 
.#4 MICHIGAN STATE VS. ALASKA-FAIRBANKS 


-
Fri. Feb.5th at 7pm First 1000 fans receive free microwave popcorn!!! 
First 300 students --FREE! 

Sat. Feb. 6th at 7pm 
First 500 fans receive free hockey hanky!!!· 
First 300 students --FREE! 
Friday, February 5, 1999 
Men 
continued from page 24 
wrnpclition we play." 
Notrn Dame knocked of Seton I !all two weeks ago at the Joyce Cnnter and the Irish know what to expect from the l'irates. 
"The key is to be tuned into their perimeter shooters" Macleod said. "They likn to come out an press, so we'll have to handle that. It's a big game for us and it's a big game for Seton llall." 
The goals for the team are clear as they hope to put the inconsistency that has plagued them behind them and finish 
with a flourish. "We'd like to get to a point where we could get into the NIT 
or the NCAA," Macleod said. 
"We have seven games left and if we get on a roll here and we do well in the Big East Tournament anything can hap· pen. But you never know." 
Mad.end pointed to the run in the NIT lhe Irish made two years ago. Notre Dame was a bucket away from knocking off Michigan at the Joyce Center and heading to New York for the semifinals of the NIT. 
..That Michigan game created quite a bit of excitement around here," MacLeod said. "We'd like to get that back." 
The Observer• SPORTS 

~:~Wl'~t;~,~~irJd $t. 
tlil~lii
?itbtJ.ttl~JBY~tfthf ~llO. 
;~1lfj~ttir1~0f n· 
· 
Jl~i~t.t~r~~livlu 
v-iJ itMiaµ s¢Mb#'""ithi 
>•·· :.. .. µ¢; thl~normally.•. means 
alii!i'!'i~l~ 

The Observer/ Jal! Hsu 

Martin lngelsby and the men's basketball team will battle to raise their record to .500 in the Big East and 12-10 overall. A victory over Seton Hall would be one more step toward an NIT bid and postseason play. 
Why Stake Your Career on Just Any Company? 
Your accomplishments in school hove everything to do with talent and determination. At CIGNA, we invite you to apply those same quallties at one of the top brands in the financial services industry. 
We're looking for bright, career 

areas of interest.
minded graduates from all maior 
ureas to enjoy the ample challenges and rewards we offer. Because we focus on developing our future leaders
II@ 
CIGNA 
A Business ofCaring. 
from the start, you'll hove the opportunity to make key contributions right away. We also understand that you want to keep growing in your career. Our professional development 
ond rotation programs let you)f.. explore various iob options and 
There's more. We're also just as interested in helping you reach your personal goals. That's probably why we continue to earn high marks from 

some of America's "best places to work" surveys. 
Learn more about what makes up CIGNA's Business of Coring brand. Stop by at our upcoming information session. 
We're on equal opportunity employer. M/f/0/V. 'CIGNA" refers to CIGNA Corporation and/or one or more of it subsidiaries. Mosl employees ore employed by 
,ubsidiories of CIGNA Corporation, which provide insurance ond related products. 
-------------------¦ ·Rii-iilitN·i:f.W 
Date:  February 11, 1999  
Time:  7:00 • 9:00 pm  
Place:  Morris Inn, Notre Dame Room  

For more information visit us on the Web: www.cigno.com 
•••:rits~!ill~~!~.t~~~ 
·••·•· ~Wi#H; yij~Jl~9@M-t.ng
4iitjd \vJtit~f.rilakMffdif • 
··,~~·•·~(~t;!f~~~~~Ji 
-
-
-
-

page 22 The Observer• SPORTS Friday, February 5, 1999 
¦ ON THE Hor CORNER 

Thank you's, appreciations, and gratitudes 
-
-
By BRIAN CHURNEY Sports Writer 
My mother always used to say that a good and decent per­son sent thank-you notes to each and every one of the peo­ple who were nice enough to give that person a gift for Christmas. Usually my thank­you notes were delivered while I was trick-or-treating in October. I guess that tells you how good and decent of a per­son I have developed into. 
In the season where resolu­tions are as plenty as illegiti­mate children in the NBA, I, too, will pile one more resolu­tion onto that Everest-like pile. Therefore, let it be said that I will get my thank-you notes out before Mark McGwire has 20 homers. O.K., it's already February, I better hurry. 
Looking, from the outside, at the world of sports, we have a lot to be thankful for. So let's play Santa Claus and make a list of thank-yous. That way we won't forget anyone. 
• Thank you to Bob Davie for saving all of us tons of money. Contrary to popular belief. Davie's lack of elementary arithmetic skills when manag­ing a clock didn't just cost us millions of dollars as some peo­ple would say. Instead, Davie saved at least my family hun­dreds of dollars. Instead of wasting precious Christmas dollars traveling to a bowl game, we instead were able to watch the lesser bowl on televi­sion and only had to foot the bill for some hot chocolate and a couple of bags of pork rinds. If you ask me. we got a lot more for our money than those unfortunate few who spent some serious money to see our dismantling. (Maybe it's Mattison and not Colleto?} 
• 
While I'm at it, thanks to Coach Davie for sparing the Notre Dame family a lot of stress and unrest. After all, we won't have to wonder why we at 10-1 (a realistic figure if we could only execute those com­plex plays ... like getting a safe­ty) weren't ranked ahead of a 10-2 Florida State team. Now we know why we're not. 

• 
And since I'm in a thankful mood, I'll thank Coach Davie one more time. Thanks for giv­ing your clock management expertise to Coach Macleod. Only you could teach a coach how to squander seven points when your team has the ball with 2.7 seconds left in a half. (Coach MacLeod, in the future, please jusi take a knee.) 

• 
Thank you to the Baltimore Ravens ... for obvious reasons. 

• 
I'd like to send a special 'thank you' to Kansas State for reminding us that there are those who are less fortunate in this world. Thanks to for reminding us to be thankful for beating Purdue by one. Maybe the freshmen were right ... we should have charged the field. 

• 
Thank you to the Associated Press for showing us that, yes indeed, a team can be jumped by two inactive teams while remaining inactive themselves. Too, let's thank both polls for reasserting to us that teams that both finish the 



regular season with the same record as Notre Dame and have been soundly defeated by Notre Dame (insert Michigan 
098) can still be a better team than Notre Dame. After all, we didn't learn that lesson in 1993 with Florida State. 
• 
Thank you to Lou Holtz for allowing us all peace of mind by proving once and for all that he was run out of Notre Dame. (I bet he could have figured out a way to run off 28 seconds with four plays.) 

• 
Thank you to Mike Wadsworth for reasserting N with his valiant attempt to undermine the luster of Notre Dame football by trying to join the Big Ten (the outcome was still in doubt when this went to press) Nthat pseudo-firing an Irish coaching legend and being what the Irish 1998 foot­ball media guide calls a 'key player in negotiation of details of the Bowl Championship Series' (Boy, that's one title I'd like to have!) that one can com­pletely waste a Notre Dame education and leave as unintel­ligent as one entered. 

• 
Thank you to the NBA for giving us a cause worth fight­ing for during the holiday sea­son. No one deserves to live in poverty, especially not multi­millionaires! Thanks too, for agreeing on the modest maxi­mum salary of $14 million per year. Wow, you guys must really love the game! 

• 
Oh, and thanks for the pseudo-season. I was hoping the lockout would end before the WNBA started. 


• Speaking of the NBA, thank you to Pat Garrity for resur­recting our basketball program by showing recruits that one can succeed in a Notre Dame uniform. 
• 
Thanks to Rutgers basket­ball's Geoff Billet for crushing the dreams of the Irish basket­ball team and the 52 people in attendance. 

• 
And thanks to the Notre Dame's men's basketball team for being a perfect example of charity among Catholics. I mean, how else can you explain giving Boston College its first Big East win. How nice. 

• 
Thank you to the women's basketball team for giving us a team that we can root for in March. 

• 
Thank you to the baseball owners, who with their lavish spending in the off-season have reminded us not to get caught up in the excitement of the past season. The game is still a business. 

• 
Thank you to Jerry Rice for being a truly unselfish role model. His ranting bout not getting the ball enough is a great example for today's youth. There's not 'I' in team. but their is in Rice. Oh, and thank you to the Atlanta Falcons for knocking Rice out of the playoffs. If I have to see that guy say he's going to Disneyland one more time .... 

• 
Thank you to Tiger Woods for, by having a less than stel­lar year, proving to us that he is human 

• 
Thank you to David Duval for showing us that there are· other golfers. Thanks for falling one stroke short (59) of 



breaking my personal best (58) showing on a golf course. (They do only play nine holes in the PGA, don't they'!) 
• 
Thank you to the New York Yankees for showing us what about 80 million dollars can buy. Thanks to the Baltimore Orioles for doing the same. While I'm at it, I'll thank the Pittsburgh Pirates and Montreal Expos for shunning high priced players and shar­ing their homegrown talent with other wealthier teams. 

• 
Thanks to the Chicago Bulls for providing Florida Marlins' fans support by assuring them that others have to endure rebuilding too. 

• 
Thank you lo Randy Moss for showing society that second -no third chances -can pay off. 

• 
Thank you to the Philadelphia Eagles for proving that a team exists that actually has less taifrnt than the not yet created Cleveland Browns. 

• 
Thank you to Michael Jordan for finally ridding Sportscenter of "the Jordan Watch" by deciding to retire. Thanks for allowing someone else to win a title finally as well. 

• 
Thank you to Mark McGwire and Sammy Sosa for giving baseball back its rightful title-America's national pas­time. 

• 
Finally, thank you to all the winners and loser::., superstars and role-players, fans, owners. coaches, and anyone else affili­ated with sports for making 1998 "the greatest year in sports history!" 


APPLICATIONS 

FOR STUDENT UNION BOARD POSITIONS 
PROGRAMMING POSITIONS aVAILABLE
AVAILABLE 

AnTOStaLcHAIR CAmPUS eNTErTAINMENlcoMMISSIONER
NOW 

COLLEGIATE JAZZ FESTIVALcHAIR conceRTScoMMISSIONER
OUTSIDE THE 

CULTURAL 3RTScoMM1ss10NER
-
SUB OFFICE M0VIescoMMISSIONER {201 LAFLIN) __.., SERV1CEScoMM1ss10NER ,,,,,.-, SOPHomoRe LITEraRy fESTIVALcHAIR ~ s~ECIAL eveNTScoMMISSIONER
EXECUTIVE POSITIONS AVAILABLE ' 

, IDEAS & ISSUEScoMM1ss10NER
BOARD rmnAGeR -,' ,
-
,
DlrECtOR oF PROGRAl11111NG , 

, ,r--._CREATIVITY POSITIONS DIRECTOR OF RELatiONS & ,' , ' , GRAPHIC DESIGNERS t6AVAILABLE) COMMUNICATIONS I ,, ,, WEBMASTER 
, ,
01RECTOR OF {REATIVITY ,' 

, , , , RELATIONS& COMMUNICATIONS POSITIONS
cHlef CONTROLLIJ / 

, ' , , ; K RELAT0RS t6AVAILABLE)FEBAPPSO E 41'.J!S OUE ;
~80 tt0B022 @___---~ CONTROLLING POSITIONS N ASSISTANT CONTROLLERS l5AVAILABLE) 
ALL APPLICATIONS SHOULD BE TURNED IN TO RYAN STECZ'S MAILBOX \THE UPPER LEFT HANO CORNER BOX) IN THE SUB OFFICE 


Friday, February 5, 1999 The Observer• TODAY page 23 
LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD OF ND DAN SULUVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
oJ<lf'f RABBITS, SToP ,HATJ I ONLY HAVE ENO(,/~H ROOM 
CELEIJIUI le!> HURN ON Iii!!> DAY: Barbara Hershey, Adlai Steven­

foR -rwo op You! 

son, Roger Staubach, Andrew Gree­.c_;;.....--q/ . ley, Al Kooper, Bobby Brown, Hank Aaron, Jennifer Jason Leigh 
.J-fappy Birthday: Put your excel­lent memory to good use. You will be able to work hard in order lo finish something very important to you.
__,......_._.. 
Creative endeavors will lead you in new directions that will leave you 
----..___ 
with something worthwhile to pre­sent, This can be a time of great joy and prosperity if you are willing to put in a little extra effort. Your num­bers: 5, 13, 19, 24, 38, 40 
ARIES (March 21-Aprll 19): Romance is evident. Partnerships will

BILLAMEND
FOXTROT 
make you happy. Your outgoing 

So l1iE SECRET  8oT HE'S HUG>E ! HE'S NASTY!  AND "(ov'RE  
To GETTING  HE'S TliE MoST LETHAL  NoT SIJPPoSED  
PAST 1HE ~D  V10E0 GAME CREATURE  ib E\IEN TRY  
oRS GuA(ZD1AN  EYER! HE 1o\11£RS A8oVE  1b iAIC£ TI-ilS  
IS To HoT  "l'OV Wl"'lli FISTS Lll<E  GUYON IN  
ATTACI< '111•!'•?  ANVtLc;! Sl<ULLS LITTER  A FtGHT?_?  
iHE 61roUND AT H15 FEET.'  
DILBERT  

--------------, E r:===::::========:::::::--7 1----o_o_c_:ro_R_O_O_G_SE_R_T___..... 8 COME iO M't HOU5E:. 
l'f'\ PUTTINC, YOU ON AN E¥.TR.E/"\£ 
HER.BAL THE.RAPY. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32Mount--, 
i5 @  ONCE  A WEE:.~ ANO  
!  (~T  "f'A.'<  LAWN  
"Oi  DOWN TO ONE.  
:'.i  INCH.  

ss Pc1tisserie 
active Philippine product 1 Postal volcano 57 Dipstick, e.g. pinpointer 34 Least 58 likesPure trustworthy Machiavellian 

15 Unfading flower politics36Carriage
16 Yield 17 Interstellar  37  --Bator  60 Feature of some fedoras  
1a Tiger look-alike  3BWoo  63 Furry  
t9 Rib-tickler  41 Prescribe  64 Femme fatale  
20 Time piece?  42 Kind of cup  65 Movie clips  

22 Alpine sight 45 "Yipes!" 66 Casters 23 Exercise unit 
Looking to add a
46 TV's "Toolman" 25 Praise 
48 Member of the DOWN 

26 Sobriquet 
Rehnquist court preceder 
1 Sharp turn so Toddler's 

little zest to your
2"-that!"

21 Uses a hassock 
frequent query 29 Sotheby's 
3 Epicurean assets 51 Rte. 5 runs

submission 4 Capital on the
through it Vltava30 Actor Shaw of 

life???
53 Harts' males 

"Tough Enough" s Anita Brookner's 
"Hotel du--" sticker section 6 Golden rule word 
31 Direct mail 54 Record store 
Come be part of 
7 Intentionally ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE baffle 
e Popular youth A B C S E G G O A D A M S group 
S N A P L O O M L E N I N 9 Formidable T U I L A T T E wrestlers R I T E 10 Minced oaths D u Dispatched, in a UL way 1-::-t-c+P::-t::0:1 12 Zinc -­C L (fertilizer A L ingredient) P v 13 Triumvirates 14 Competitor G I V E 21 More than u N I T E U S E offensive M U S E E I T E M O G R E 23 Shade of bIue S P A R S R O P E W E P T 24 Garden-variety 
The Observer 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have 
found The Observer an indispensible link to the 
two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Vll{l,O (Aug. 23-!>ept. 22): ),ll1 can make extra cash through home product sales or mall order. Don't put too much cash into the project to begin with. Let it ~row slowly. Your business sense will be very acute. 
000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Look 
after your own affairs first. Get out 
and buy yoursell those things that are 
sure to improve your image. You 
need a change, and any personal 
alterations you make will be favor­
able today. Don't overreact to disrup­
tions in your domestic scene. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
Money-making ideas will be more 
than valid. Look into the red tape 
involved in taking such ventures to 
fruition, Sudden travel may ~ neces­
sary. You are best to keep your ideas 
to yourself. 000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 211: 
Business opportunities will develop 
through the new contacts you make. 
You can get help from those who can 
make a diffell!nce. Cnanges regarding 
your income are likely 0000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You may as well forget trying to deal with emotional matters. You will not be able to reason with your loved ones. You can make financial gains if you focus on business interests, 00 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Consider traveling to countries that will spark your interest lrom a cultur­al or philosophical point of view, Deal with relatives and in-laws who may have wrong perceptions, 0000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Redecorating or purchases made for your home will pay off. Help those incapable of taking care of their own financial and personal affairs. Rewards for past good deeds will be yours.00 
..... 
-
-
--
-
.... 

wow. REFRESH MY TALI< MEMo(t"(_ You A8oUT SPENO HoW MANY CovNTER-NANoSE(oNDS INT01T1VE. 1"4 1HE REAl 
\ i,./ol'M Y? 
SCOTT ADAMS r-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_ -_ -_ ~_-_-_-_-_-_~_::-. 
~ 
~fiE.R 51~ MONT\-\~, 
1F "!'OUR HA.1R 

DOESN'T GROW BACK, I I-Ii\VE. {'\()RE. HERB$ IN M'< $TORI"\ 
natuie will contribute to your popu­
larity. You can help others and receive 
rewards for your good actions. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 
Watch out for someone who may be a 
little underhanded. You may want to 
spend some additional time with cltll­
d.ren. They will need extra help. Your 
creative abilities will he in a high 
cycle.000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't even think about getting involved in financial schemes. You are not likely to make smart purchases today. U you must shop, just look -don't buy. 
00000 
CANCER {June 21-July 22): You will have personal problems if you are ignoring complaints made by lovecf ones. You must learn to let oth­ers be who they are. Let go of the past. Your fear ol change may be your demise. 00 
LEO {July 23-Aui,. Z2): You should be aware of deception on the part of business acquaintances. Use your charm and intelligence, but don't sign documents just yet. Correspondence will not dear up issues. 0000 


Puule by Ed Pegg Jr. 
28 Doc wears them 30 Stray, in away 33 "Married ... 
With Children" co-star 35 Glom (onto) 36 Nuts or crackers 38 Puts new bandages on 39 Like Old Irish lettering 40 Springtime dance site 421984 Oscar­nominated saga 


43 More euphoric 51 Knock off 

an institution. 
44 Accord 52 Kind of analysis requirement 
56 San-clad royal 47 Foreboding 
59 Hextall of atmospheres 

Join the
hockey 49Auto 

61 Mont Blanc, e.g. 
insurance factor 62 Wifey, with "the" 
Observer 
Answers to any three cluss in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 

staff. 
Annual subscriptions are available tor the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and maiJ to: P.O. Box Q 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name ______________________ 
Address ___________________ City _______ State ____Zip.______ 



¦ Track faces largest ¦ Fencing travels to challenge ofthe season Durham searching for 
....... 
at the Loftus Center. coach Auriol's 400th career victory. 
p.14 p. 18
PORTS 

page 24 ---------------------~VER Friday, February 5, 1999 
¦ HOCKEY 

Urick leads icers against first-place Spartans 
By TED BASSANI 
Sports Writer 
Following last Saturday's emotional win over Michigan, Notre Dame will put its unbeaten home record on the line again this weekend, this time against the fourth-ranked Michigan State Spartans. 
Friday's contest is the team's first versus the CCHA's first­place Spartans this season. Notre Dame will play Michigan State each of the next three Fridays as they finish up their treacherous late-season sched­ule. Saturday night, the Irish will conclude their season series with the Nanooks of Alaska-Fairbanks. who fell twice to Notre Dame at the Joyce Center already this sea­son. 
Entering the weekend, the Irish find themselves in fourth place in the CCHA. 
But they are currently only seven points behind Michigan State, who leads the confer­ence with 33 points. 
Ranked at No. 4 in the nation, Michigan State is cur­rently the hottest team in col­lege hockey. They are present­

-
ly in the midst of a fifteen­game unbeaten streak (12-0­3), which included a ten-game winning streak. In fact, the Spartans have not lost since their last game in November, when they lost in Minnesota. Like any top-10 team, the Spartans boast of strong spe­cial teams, especially on the 

The key to solving Blackburn, says Irish sopho­more Dan Carlson, may involve being aggressive in front of the MSU net. 
"He really doesn't face that many shots," Carlson said. "We have to try to get to him and get some more rebounds. I think other teams have had trouble getting around the net ... If we can get a lot of shots, I think we can be successful." 
To this point in the season, the Irish remain unbeaten on home ice with a record of 9-0­
1. Following a season in which the team struggled on home ice, one major difference this season has been the addition of an energetic crowd to the Joyce Center atmosphere. Last Saturday night against [thPn] No. 5 Michigan, the loudest crowd of the season helped carry the Irish to an exciting 3­2 win, and coach Poulin hopes there will be more of the same this coming weekend. 
"[Improving on home ice] has been one of the focal points of our season," Poulin said. "We've played well on home

penalty-kill. Coming into center Mike York. puck, he protects the puck. 
ice. We want it to be uncom­Friday's game, Michigan State Last season, York was one of He's a sniper and he plays fortable for teams to come inleads the CCHA with an the 10 finalists for the Hobey both ends." 

here. [Last] Saturday night's

astounding penalty-killing effi­Baker Award, and looks to be Another player who has atmosphere just adds to that."
ciency of 91.9 percent. What is having a similar season this dominated for Michigan State 
On Saturday, Notre Dame 

even more impressive is the year. So far, York has amassed has been sophomore goaltend­will play host to the Alaska­fact that in 28 games this sea­35 points (16 goals, 19 assists), ing phenom Joe Blackburn. 
Fairbanks Nanooks, who are in 

son, the unit has scored 10 which leads his team and puts Among starting goaltenders tenth place in the CCHA stand­
shorthanded goals while only him fourth in the CCHA. in the CCHA, Joe Blackburn ings. Saturday's game will be
allowing 11 power play goals. "He's a complete player," leads with both a 1.40 goals­The Spartans are led on the Irish coach Dave Poulin said of against-average and with a ice by their captain, senior York. "He's terrific with the .930 save percentage. see HOCKEY/ page 14 
Irish can reach .500 in Big East 
ByJOEYCAVATO lead to a sub .500 record and outside game." Associate Sports Editor nowhere to go after the Big East The two most experienced Tournament. inside and outside players, 
-
The Notre Dame men's basket­MacLeod hopes that improved Antoni Wyche and Phil Hickey ball team has made the final offensive balance this season will will be looking to close their turn and it's headed down the lead to better fortune this season careers in style. 
final stretch. and to an invitation into a post­''I'd like to see Antoni and Phil Now it's time to get into full season tournament. finish big because they're stride. seniors and it's their 
John Macleod's squad last go around," sits on an 11-11 record 
Macleod said. 
'IT'S A CRUCIAL GAME
overall and 5-6 in the Big The most consistent 
East. With seven games FOR US. NOBODY scorers for Macleod 
remaining on the regular 
WANTS TO flNISH THE REGU-have been freshman 
-
season slate the Irish will Troy Murphy and have to make a move if LAR SEASON WITHOlIT ANY David Graves who lead they hope to be playing in the Irish in scoring. 
MORE GAMFS TO PLAY.' 
March. With 22 games under 
After a full week off their belts on the colle­after a home victory over JOHN MACLEOD giate level and in the Providence, the Irish will MEN'S BASKETBAU COACH Notre Dame program. 
look to build some MacLeod hopes the momentum Saturday best of the season is when they take on Seton still to come. Hall. "Last year we had trouble "We've been together since the 
-"It's a crucial game for us," scoring and Pat (Garrity) was the 18th of October and we have a MacLeod said. "Nobody wants to only one who consistently scored much better feel for what we're finish the regular season without in double figures," MacLeod doing both offensively and defen­any more games to play." said. "So what we have now is a sively" Macleod said. "We have 
Last season the Irish found better offensive balance, a much a much better focus of what themselves in similar situation. better offensive package. We needs to be done against the A lack of offensive punch down have a much better correlation the stretch lead to a skid that between the inside game and the 
see MEN/ page 21 


SPORTS 
ATA 
GLANCE 
Men's Swimming
vs. Secon Hall 
at Buffalo 
Saturday, 2 p.m. 

Today, 6 p.m. vs. Michigan Scare Today, 7p.m.
at Seton Hall 
Track and Field Saturday, 12 p.m. Meyo Invitational Fri.-Sat. 






