-------~------_,____..______ 
'Echo'ing through the ages 
Red-hot Red Sox 
Tom Petty sends several hits "Free Falling" 
Game five ends in Red Sox glory. downing the 

Tuesday
through the ages with his new greatest hits 
Indians I 2-8 . 
album. Echo. 
Sports . page 21 
OCTOBER 12, 
Scene . page 14 
1999 

THE 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIII NO. 34 

BEYOND THE GOLDEN DOME 

Celebrating the grand opening of an exhibit displaying Notre Dame's history, Father Edward Malloy spoke at the Northern Indiana Center for History s "Bexond the Golden Dome" dinner Monday. The Center established a P.ermanent exhibit featuring rotating exhibits celebrating Notre Dame's community service through the decades. Malloy and Mrs. Ernestine Raclin, for whom the exhibit is named, took place in the ribbion-cutting ceremony following dinner. 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



Research center plans educational programs 
+ New sport center focuses on research, teaching and outreach 
By ELLEN FITZGERALD News Writer 
Notre Dame has founded a new Center for Sport, Character and Culture. 
Although the center is still in the process of creating the foundation for 
its programs. it has already designed many programs that it will be imple­menting in the futtire. 
"Through the cen­ter's research, teaching and out­reach, we're seek­ing to foster a broad reassessment of the role of sport in soci­etv and culture through examining both its potential and limitations as a vehicle for express­ing values such as 
fairness, compassion and communi­ty," said Brenda Light Bredemeier, coordinator for the center with David Light Shields. 
The center will hold discussion ses­sions among faculty members. stu­dents, administrators, staff and coaches about how sports can relate to other aspects of life at Notre Dame. It will also serve as a facility research in character development in sports and teaching life skills for _stu­dent athletes. 
It also will be a resource center for Notre Dame's sports library. 
The center will also host a series of conferences in conjunction with Stanford University on the Translation of Culturn of Youth Sports. The conference will alternate between the two schools, the first being held in March on Stanford University's campus. 
A coaching institute is currently in planning. 
"We are planning on developing a coaching institute to prepare coaches for their role as moral educators and for their role as developers of' optimal performance skill," Shields 
said.
''.Notre Dame seemed like a 
Shields and
logical place for the center Bredemnier, 
because there is both a big husband and wife, were
sports culture here and yet 
asked to head 
a commitment to try and this program at 
have a sports program Notre Dame four years ago
with integrity built into it." 
by Clark Power, chair and pro­David Light Shields fessor in the 
co-coordinator, Center for Sport, Program of Liberal Studies,
Character and Culture 
because they am among the nation's leading experts in the field of athletics and character development. They co­authored a book. "Character Development and Physical Activity." · 
This book helped to simulate the idea for this center. 
"Notre Dame seemed like a logical place for the center lrncause there is both a big sports culturn here and yet also a commitment to try to have a sports program with integrity built into it," said Shields. 
The center;s theme is the celebra­tion of the quest for excellence in 
see SPORT/page 4 


Hes burgh: Latin American relationship a 'special passion' 
. Lack of priests challenges region's Catholic churches 
Uy TIM LOGAN News Editor 
The week before Christmas in I1)54. University president nmuritus Fathnr Th11odor11 llnsburgh travnlnd to a small vii­]age ill MI\XicO. 
IIP was thn first priest the Hesburgh villagrirs had seen in thn 1warly 40 
yHiirs, since all Catholic clergy were ki!l,.id in the Mexican Hnvofution. They ask1•d him to say a i\Iid night Mass on Christmas Eve. 
llesburgh obliged, and wound up returning to the vil­lage to say Mass for the next 14 Christmases. This, the priest said Monday, was the beginning of his relationship with Latin America. 
"Latin America, I think, has been kind of a special passion in my life," he said in a talk discL1ssing his reflections on the region. llcsburgh detailed his travels through and experi­ences with Soulh and Contra! Amerit:a. 
The need to focus on social justice was a major theme in his talk. The region has at times suffered through serious 
"There ·s nothing you can do better than go back to your own country as a strong religious leader." 
Father Theodore Hesburgh president emeritus 
poverty and division of wealth. 
lleshurgh challenged the audience, largely comprised of Latin American students, to takn a role in its future. 
"There's nothing you can do better than go back to your o~n country ~s a str?ng,.reli­g1ous leader, he said. You can do great things down there." 
A lack of priests affects Catholics in Latin America, he said. 
"I think the greatest thing Latin America needs is more priests and nuns," he said, recalling the enthusiasm with which he was met in Mexico. "The moment one showed up, they were right back where they were Ibefore the Revolution]." 
Hesburgh noted thal for many years the majority of priests in most Latin American countries were foreign-born. Many came from Europe, Canada and the United .States, and this hurt ministry to the poor and those living outside urban areas. 
The number of priests from Latin America should improve, he said, as the Church devotes its resources more to the poor. 
"Given that 90 percent of the 
people are Catholic, tlrny should be able to produce priests," Im said. 
His talk coincides with a major conference at the University devoted to dis­cussing the role of the Church throughout the Anrnricas, and Hesburgh stressed the need for church leaders from Canada to Chile to work together. 
"We need a church where we share our prohlmns and share our resources," he said. Hesburgh noted the Catholic Church in the Western Hemisphere forms the largest geographic group of membnrs of the faith in the world. 
"l think it has a grnat future," he said. "It can Im a force for justice, a force l'or 
see HESBURGH/page_4 


page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Tuesday, October 12, 1999 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Digital Alchemy 
Yes, it is that time of the season again, the time of tho season when I begin to spout off about mindless happenings that I have seen around campus, life, etc. And, si.nce I am the systems manager here at The Observer, J begin my tirade by nominating my favorite web site of the semester. 
This web site is none other than www.mrwake­

Michael Revers 
up.com. The real beauty of this site is that you sign-up for free, get called for 

Systems
free, and get woken up for 

Manager
free. Go there; well worth the time it will take to sign-up. 

This may not seem like something that is worthwhile to you, but bear with me for a moment. Imagine that you are pulling an all­nighter, and you need to get up in like three hours for that big physics test. With this site, you can make sure that you make it up for the test by having it call your room in succes­sive 15-rninute intervals! All for free. 
(Now, you might have already stopped rMding this, unless you know me, but since you stayed I will give you the real point of lhis column, PREE STUFF.) 
For instance, surf to Scour.net. Now I know what you are thinking. "Mike, you are a bor­ing. I already know about this site, and it is no big secret!" Well, have you ever bothered to use the advanced search. and look for ASF files? Because if you had, you would know that this site helps you get all the latest movie releases that are currently in theatres. No joke! ­
Also, have you ever bothered to use the lit­tle known chat program known as Mire, or Internet Relay Chat? It is a great little pro­gram to find MP3s, movies, etc. And, it is also a great program to just chat with. If you like that sort of thing. 
Understand this, the point that I am trying to make with this drivel is that, if you are going to use the Internet, USE the Internet. The best thing that this University ever did was grant the students of this campus access to the outside world. 
So many times here at ND, I have found myself out of touch with the world around our little bubble. And the Internet, with all it brings, is a medium that I can definitely get behind. As a "techie," I have been privileged to have a front seat to the happenings of the Internet during my four years here, and now I can not imagine my life without it. 
The birth of MP3s, and now full movies online are just the beginning. I attended the speech by Don Tapscott, who recently spoke in the Jordan Auditorium about "Growing Up Digital." 
He spoke about how we, yes you and me my friends, are in the digital generation. We are in the most exciting time for technology, and it is time to embrace it! The world hopefully will end up where I would like to see it: Sharing ideas as fast as they can leave a per­son's fingers. Until that happens though, I will just sit back in awe, at my digital domain of free music, movies, and "dot corns." 
' 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Obsert1er. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Noreen Gillespie Emmer Malloy Kare Steer Graphics Courtney Boyle Mandi Powell 
Sports Production Kathleen O'Brien 
Brian Kessler Viewpoint Lab Tech Lila Haughey Monica Garza 
Th, Observer (LfSPS 59? 2-4000) i, published Monday through Friday cxc<pt during exam and vacation period,. The Observer i, a mcmb<r of rhe A\Social<'d Pres~. AU rcp,oduction ngbrs arc rc.s~rv~d. 
QUOTE OF THE WEEK  
'1fyou look at the top  "When you have the  "Unfortunately, {my  "We are closer to  
1o uni verities, there is  most dysfunctional  identity] came out  realizing our goal  
an average student to  system in Western  before I got a chance  ofbeing not only the  
faculty ratio ofnine  Europe, who better to  to say it myself"  preeminent Catholic  
to one. To make that  understand it than  William McMullen  university in the  
possible, the University  Bill Clinton? "  Nick Eddy imposter  world, but also a  
would need to hire 150  Peter King  great Catholic  
new professors."  U.S. Congressman  university. "  
Tom Coslmano  Father Edward Malloy  
chair, committee on  University president  
Academic Affairs  

Compiled from U-Wire reports 



OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Cuba wants University of Illinois alliance 
CHAMPAIGN, Ill. . 
"Instead of buying products from the 
Cuba is eager to establish relations rest of the world. we want to buy with American universities, and the them from Illinois." University of Illinois is high on its list. Cuba imports approximately $1 bil­
"We are very interested in develop­lion in agricultural goods. This figure ing scientifi~ exchanges with could increase because of the suc­American institutions -especially cess of tourism in the island, the this one, which has so much prestige diplomat said. About 1.7 million peo­for agriculture," said Cuba's chief ple visited Cuba last year, many of diplomat in Washington, Fernando whom are Americans who .challenge Remirez de Estenoz, during his visit University's rnsilarch. the embargo by traveling through a to the University last Friday. Rmnirez de Estenoz hopes Ryan's third country. 
Remirez de .Estenoz and three visit can initiate agricultural busi­Remirez de Estenoz spent 45 min­other members from the Cuban nessns between Cuba and Illinois. utes of his two-hour stop at the Interests Section met with ACES The United States has had an embar­University with a group of three stu­Dean David Chicoine. Chicoine will go against Cuba since the early dents who studied in Havana last visit Cuba next month as a part of a 1960s. Yet he said his countrv would summer. delegation led by Gov. George Ryan. be interested in importing· crops, "You are one of the few Chicoine said the Univerisity is inter­particularly soybeans, if there were a Universities who have provided its ested in Cuba's developments in change in policy. Illinois would bene­students with the opportunity to go biotechnology, and believes estab­fit from Cuban products during the to Cuba," said Johana Tablada, lishing a system of scientific off-season. Second Secretary of the Cuban exchanges might be influential to the "We want to do business," he said. Interest Section. 
Student gambling on the rise 
MADISON, Wis. 

Road trips to gambling hotspots may give University of Wisconsin-Madison students a getaway from school, but when trips lead to serious gambling addictions, students often find it's not all fun and games. If the idea of losing money isn't frightening enough, the statistics amongst college compulsive gamblers will make anyone think twice about pulling out their wallets, experts said. Rose Gruber, executive director for the Wisconsin Council on Problem Gambling, said there are reasons why teens and young adults are at risk: Compulsive gambling is a learned behavior Addiction runs in families Gambling is a high-risk activity Gambling is connected with partying and drinking. "The national increase in compulsive gam­bling among younger adults is 12 percent, whereas with the whole adult population the increase is only 5 to 7 percent," Gruber said. "Gambling addiction is often called the 'hidden addiction' because there is no sub­stance. But the disease affects many, and it requires serious treatment." Sophomore Paul Duggan said he sometimes visits casinos to place bets with friends or gamble online, but said he is not addicted to gambling. 

Prof creates alternative therapy 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. 
A University of Florida researcher is experimenting with a new fringe treatment for depression that poses fewer side effects than traditional options such as elec­troshock therapy. Dr. William Triggs. an associate pro­fessor of neurology in the UF College of Medicine, used magnetic stimulation on patients with severe depres­sion, trying to find another option to electroshock ther­apy. While more than 19 million Americans suffer from depression, 80 to 90 percent of people with severe depression improve with electroshock therapy, accord­ing to the National Institute of Mental Health. But the procedure has been known to cause memory loss and other effects. Triggs's research focuses on repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation, or rTMS. The treat­ment uses powerful magnetic fields to send a weak electrical current to the brain. In electroshock therapy, a stronger current is induced after the patient is put under general anesthesia. But in rTMS, patients are kept awake and the side effects are lessened. "The level of the electricity is probably one-one-hundreth of shock therapy," Triggs said. 



LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather"' forecast for noon, Tuesday, Oct. 12. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
-.-.-..&....&. .......... 

C> 1999 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY Pr•••ure: ,,_. 
® © . ·[:] D . m ~ 0 ~; ~ 
Mlr,h Low Shower• Rain T·atorl'TI• Flurrl,:,11 Snow lc:e Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via ASSOC/Bled Pros'!I 

Atlanta 74 60 Las Vegas 93 60 Portland 65 45 Baltimore 71 48 Memphis 82 57 Sacramento 77 55 ~A .£0 ~ ~ dQ .. ~ ~ Boston 66 42 Milwaukee 60 40 St. Louis 76 51 
, .......... ,~...~-...... •:::::·.r· -=-~~ '"' Showers T•SIOITTI$ Rain Flurri0<; Snow ks Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy Chicago 64 40 New York 68 52 Tampa 89 72 Vi.aAssocisrsd Press GraphicsNsl Houston 87 59 Philadelphia 72 50 Wash DC 72 52 

T1mday, October 12, 1999 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 

Members discuss further action over ad-hoc committee 
By KATE WALTER 
New, Writer 
Campus l.il'c Council mernhPrs 1:xprcss1id concern Monday about llw comµosition of tlrn Acadf'mk Coundl's ad hoc eom­111itt1•1: chialing with academics 1uHI studP11t lil'P. 
Tlw disrussion contnred around a IPtlnr l'rom vicn prnsi­d,•nt l'or S111df'11t Affairs Father Mark l'oornrnn nisponcling to llw Counril's rnqunst for more l'P)JT'l!Sl'lltation on tlw cornmit­t«)P. l'oor111a11's ll'ltnr reforn~d to llnivnrsity prt1sidenl Fat.her 1•:dward Malloy, who formed th1• ad hoc commitll'n. l\lal!oy is "salistir!d with tlw wmposition ol' th1! committi-11," Poorman wroll•, and "did not bnlievt! it rn•1·i-ssarv to add nH\mlwrs from Uw C:am,;us 1.il'e Council." 
Sist1•r Patricia Thomas, rnctor ol' Walsh llall, was invitPd to scrv«' 011 Lhc commiltcc indcp1~11­clm1t of the Cl .C r1\quest. 
l\fomlH1rs Wl'rn split about what, if any. l'urlhtir action should hi' taken. 
"Tho lnttcr is inadnquatc in my eyes," said Matthew Mamak, chid' ol' staff for the ollice of' the studnnt body prnsidnnt. Asking for clarification of' this letter would not b1i considered out of line." 
Somo mmnbnrs complained that tlrn letl«!r does not explain why CI.C members am not part of' a committee that deals with student lifo. 
"The Cl.(: deals with student lifo. This is an issue that deals with academic lifo and student lifo," said /\va Prnacher, assis-Lant dean of tile College of Arts and Letters. "The qmistion is, doesn't the CLC deserve to be a part of this discussion'!" 
Coalition Council roprnsenta­tivf1 Michael Fierro shared this opinion. 
"If' this is a committN) dealing with student issues, why aren't !lrnre students on it?" he asked. 
Other members believed lhat 110 further action was necessary. noting that Thomas and student body vice prnsiJcnl Michael Palumbo both sit on the commit­tee. Others said tlm CLC: does not have the right tu insist on being induded on the commillee. 
"When an ad hoc committeo is . formed, there is nothing that says that wn haVI~ a right to b1~ there," said Father David Scheidler. rector of St. Edward's llall. 
Palumbo nnd Thomas said that it is too lato to add n•~w mem­bers to the ad hoc committee. 
'The committee is already bro­k1'n down into subcommittees and adding new members is highl,v unlikely at this point," Thomas said. 
Only six members voted in favnr of discussing a resolution on this issue. Ten votes were needed create a resolution. 
In other CLC news: 
. The Academic Committee discussed Notre Dame's rank­ings in the U.S. News and World Report. 
The idea that the rankings are not comparable to Notre Dame because many other universities have much higher ratios of grad­uate students to undergraduate students was decided to be 

JOB TURNER/The Observer 

CLC members discussed dissatisfaction that a reccomendation to add members to an academic ad-hoc committee was rejected by Father Malloy. Coalition Council representative Michael 
sion concerning a pamphlet to be sent home to all incoming freshmen, and hopes to have a first copy by Christmas. 
The committee also discussed the possibility of cleaning up biased language on campus. 
"We want to make people think about words they use in everyday language," said Student Union Board manager Ross Kerr, "and what the effects of certain words are." 

got news? 1-5323. 


e Find Out What's ••• a Master's Degree in Health Care Management. 

,,};: 

·\:, i 
' f
~' 

5:15 -6:30 pm, Reception in the
-......... . 

\i111e11t11r'1 

(01'\P .1 Nieuwl.md Science Hail 
~ looil 11nu ~ ~ \,eve,ages Room I 18 
You'll learn why a master~ degree in health care mnnagement is a great thing to get, anJ why Rush University is a great place to get it. 
For more infonnation call 1-888-352-RUSH. 
£~ HEALTH ~YSTEMS 
.... MANAGEMENT 
RUSH UNIVERSITY CHICAGO 
You're cordially invited to attend a slide presentation being given hy Chicago's Rush University Health Systems Management Program. A reception with complimentary food and beverages will follow. 
Date:  October 26, 1999  
Time:  4:30-5:15 pm, Presentation in the  
Nieuwland Science Hall  
Room 118  



Fierro argued that CLC members belonged on the committee. 
invalid, because the magazine Dame decide to attend. states that the data applies only "We want to find out why this to undergraduates. is so," Fierro said. 
"My reaction is to suggest that The committee also discussed we need to construct a sample of issues of recruitment including comparable schools and identify Spring Visitation. the information that we want to "We want to find out what the be compared by," Faculty Senate University is doing for recruit­representative Edward Manier ment, and what the University said. should be doing for recruit­
. The Diversity Committee dis­ment," Fierro said. cussed that only half of all . The Gender Issues minorities accepted to Notre Committee continued the discus-



JED prograill receives grant 
By TIM LOGAN News Writer 
A new donation will con­tinue and enhance Notre Dame's Program in Journalism, E'thics and Democracy, the University announced Monday. 
The contribution will pro­vide scholarships and internship support for jour­nalism students and help underwrite administrative costs for the program. It also will fund conferences, lectures and new courses in journalism. The amount of the grant was not released. 
The money will enable the program. founded in 1997 with a grant from the John S. and James L. Knight Foundation. to grow further. according to its 
director, Robert Schmuhl. ardent wish that that the "It is certainly the next program be dedicated to phase in the development of the restoration of public 
journal- trust in jour­ 
ism  edu­ nalism."  
cation  at  "ft is certainly the  Gallivan  
N o t r e Dame," he said. "It allows the  next phase in the development of journalism education  expressed hope that the program would teach  
University to make a  at Notre Dame. "  aspiring journalists to  
larger commit­ Robert Schmul  pursue quali­ty reporting  
ment to the educa­ Journalism program director  with fairness and integrity.  

tion of 
future 
journalists in an ethical and responsi­ble way." The announcement coin­cided with the annual meet­ing of the Program's 
Advisory Council, which held a panel discussion Monday on the future ofjournalism. The donation was made by the family of' .John Gallivan, a long­time Salt Lake City journalist and 1937 Notre Dame graduate. The program will now bear his name. "I am gratuf'ul to my children for endowing Notre Dame's Program in Journal.ism, Ethics and Democracy in my name and grateful, also, to my alma mater l'or lrnr lifotime guiding hand," Gallivan said in a statement. "It is my 
I le is chair­man of the board and .publisher emeritus of the Kearns Tribune Corporation. I le has worked with that company since graduating from Notre Dame and served as pub­lisher ol' the Salt Lake City Tribune from I960 to 1984. 
The gift itself was made by Michanl and Share11 Gallivan, Ned and Gay Gallivan and Tim and Pam Gallivan. It is a part of tlrn $767 million "Gennrations" campaign. 
"What the Gallivan family has done hum cannot be understat.nd -should not be understated -in any shape or form," said Bill Dwyrn, advisory council membnr and sports editor for the Los Angeles 'l'imPs. "This is a special monienL" 
Tho Gallivan Program in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy is a live-course concentration in the Colifigii orArts and Letters. 


page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, October 12, 1999 

Hesburgh 
continued from page 1 

peace, a forre for doing some­thing for the poor." 
llesburgh encouraged !.he audi­ence to 11ppreciate those who have struggled to bring justice to Latin America. 
He told the story of Jose Napoleon Guarte. a former stu­dent of his who ran for president of San Salvador, pledging to bring Christian Democracy to his coun­try. Aftr.r winning Hw elr.ction, 
by a cooperative sharing of · 
Church duties in the 
Americas. 
Church leaders must use


Princeton revokes A+ distinction 
. Concern rises over consistently high marks 
Associated Press 

PRINCETON, N.J. 
Concerned that high marks have become commonplace, Princeton University might do away with the A-plus. 
Under a plan proposed by a faculty committee, A-plus would be replaced by a grade called '.'A with distinction," for truly out-, standing work. 
One idea is to assign it a sym­bol. Instead of being worth 4. 3 to the student's grade-point average, the "A with distinc­tion" would be worth 4.0, the same as regular A. 
In addition. faculty members would have to file written explanations with each "A with distinction" they give. 
The recommendation, which still must be approved by the Ivy League university's faculty. was suggested last week by an eight-member faculty commit-Guarte nearly lost his life wheu Guarte was elected president, the one of tho generals he was and helped improve the quality of 

George: Church calls 

running against nulli­
"We have to raise up 
fied the elec­tion results these heroes who are and captured 
willing to do the tough 
him. 
things . .,
Hesburgh and U.S. gov­ernment offi­Father Theodore Hesburgh
cials inter­
president emeritus
vened to pre­vent the execu­tion of Guarte, 
who was instead exiled to stand up against the tide and say 
Cardinal Francis George,

Venezuela. Some time later, 'that's wrong."' 
archbishop of Chicago. 'this mission can be best accomplished, said George, 

tee that was asked to come up with possible solutions to the problem of grade inflation ­too many students getting As and Bs. 
If approvrd, it would take effect for the 4,500 under­graduates beginning in the 
2000-2001 
academic 
year. 
"The prnb­
iem we've got 
with A-pluses 
is that there's 
too many of 
them to sug­
gest that the 
students get­
ting them are 
really doing 
exceptional ·work," said 
Princeton 
''The problem we've got with A-pluses is that there's too many ofthe to suggest that the students getting them are really doing exceptional work." 
Justin Harmon· spokesman, Princeton University 
spokesman Justin Harmon. "And they're not evenly dis­tributed across the subjects. 
. It's easier to get an A-plus in science and engineering than it is in the humanities. We want a common standard and we want it to mean some­thing." 
life in the coun­try, Hesburgh said. 



for millenium unity 
"We have to 
raise up these heroes who arc willing to do the 
By CHRISTINE KRALY tough things," he 
Associate News E<liror said. "It's not easy in a country 
Tho mission "of the
where things are Catholic Church is to find outreally unjust and who we are by finding out
crooked and who Jesus Christ is,'' said 
Robbie 
George said Church leaders Adler, 20, 
and followers, in order to 0 f 
evangelizr. for the new mil­Scottsdale, 
lennium, must recognizeAriz., a 
"our unity in Christ, commu­junior elec­
nity within ourselves and sol• trical engi­neering 
major. 
Students are being asked for 


Sport
their opin­ions on the 
continued from page 1 
proposal, but ulti­
physical, psychological and idarity among our peoples." 
Solidarity can only be reached if Church members overcome certain personal obstaclns, such as social and personal sins, he said. 
"A change of attitudes needs to happen for a soli­darity of human cultures," he said. "We [the Catholic Church] -need to find a new method ... in order to be new evangelizers." 
"There are always seeds of God's work in every culture," George said, noting that human solidarity occurs wi!.h the sharing of religious con­victions among all cultures. "The Church, besides being the woi-d of Christ ... is also the sign of unity of the human race." 
Cardinal George's lecture was part of back-to-back conferences held on campus this week inspired by and related to Ecclesia in America and to Ex Corde Ecclesiae, Popo John Paul II's Apostolic Constitution on Catholic higher education. 

Some students worry that the change, while well-intend­ed, could end up making them look bad to graduate schools or potential employers by reducing their GPAs. 
''I'm not sure if it will accomplish all they say," said the skills and resources of other Church members throughout the Catholic com­munity, he said. According to George, this is "ecclesial communion." 
"No church Axists alone. All exist together under the leadership of the [popel in Rome," he said. 
the nation and collaborated with Bredemeier on numer­ous books and articles. 
Bredemeier came to the Notre Dame after 20 years at University of California at Berkeley where she served as the dean in the College of Letters and Science. She pre­sented her research in the sports and moral develop­ment field in many lectures across the nation and internationally. 

mately the decision will be the faculty's, Harmon said. 
Several other top universi­ties don't use A-plus at all. according to Princeton offi­cials. Among them: Brown, Dartmouth, Harvard, MIT and Yale. Columbia, Cornell, Penn and Stanford all use A-plus. 
moral skill. Its goal is to use sports as a way to maximize social development. 
Shields received his train­ing in education from the Graduate Theological Union in Berkeley, Calif. He taught at various universities around 

o~f/u-e14-11f Tk Btkt Pizza.I @3©G)ij 1l[i:}© @O©@fh ·IJ[!]©@~G)WBB  
12 Anytime Anytime you call between you call between 5:30 & 7:00, 10:30-12:599 9the price of your the price of yourI large 1 topping 2 large 1 topping pizzas pizza is the time you call.is the time you call. * Plus tax * Plus tax  
r-------------,Lunch Special 1 1 1 Small 1 Topping 1ND store I 2 Cans of Coca-Cola product 1 . Saint Mary's/ I $5 99 I •271-1177 L ______ .:_ ______.J North Village Mall 271-PAPA  


The Observer. 
It's where you get your news. 

--,, --_.._,,...__
_ 





orld 
•I 



Tuesday, October 12, 1999 COMPILED PROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Security guard kills neighbors 
SAN FHANCISCO 
/\ nwntally ill sncurity guard marched upstairs and ki l!Pd Ih rp(i 1wigh bors lwfon• taking his own lil'c, lnaving a wou11drd 2-ycar­old girl silting in lwr high chair amid lhe bloodbat.ll. Lorenzo "Sol" Silva, (i'.-i, had lrn,•n f'rit·ndly with tlw young fomily who lived on U11• sPcond floor of the two-story homo he shame! with his motlwr. But recontly his men­tal condition wors1•11nd and he couldn't sleep wilhoul his mothrn· in Uw room and a light on, said his brollinr. Silvestre Silvu. "lie had been 1wrvous !'or years," Silva said. "I saw him last WPPk -!JP lookPd lik1• lw wan!.t!d to grab you. IL was liki, lw was drowning. lie looked like lie was snni11g a ghost." Poli(:c said thny do not know what prornptml tlw shooting. 

Police investigate deaths of motorcycle racer, wife 
KENTON, Ohio 
;\ motorrych• ra1·ing drnmpion and his wife Wl'rf' t'ound shut lo d(•ath in tlwir home, and poli<:I' an• inv1!stigating it as a doubln homi­('id P. PolicP found urn· bodiPs of Scott Crigaliunas. 31). and Becky Crigaliunas, 42, in tlwir living oom Friday. ;\ family friend had rnlll'd policP af't1•r Mrs. Crigaliunas didn't show up forwork. Police had no motive or s11sp1~rts in the slayings, Chief John Vermillion said. (;rigaliunas was a four-time national rhampiou in lnt1irnalional Drag Bikn Assucialion evm1ts. In thP sport, two bikt1rs rac1i sidP-by-sidl\ down a quarter-mile straightaway at up to 200 mph. Grigaliunas was tlw first drag bike racer to attract llonda Motor Co. as a sponsor. lie was also twice vollld ridnr of tlrn year by the association's 1,500 nwmhnrs. 

Earthquake shakes Cairo 
CAIHO, Egypt 
;\ !i.2-magnilude earthciuake shook Egypt's rnpital Monday night, said an official at an olisnrvalory oulsid1\ of' Cairo. The Health Minislry and the lnlnrior Ministry said they had no immediatn rnports of' r.asualties or dauwge l'rom Urn lrnmor. according to the Middle East News Agency. The quake struck at about !0:40 p.rn. and laslP.d a fow seconds. l{11siclnnts in 111ullislory buildings said they could fopl tlw buildings shake. The epicenter was in llH' desl'rt, 112 miles snuthcast of C:nirn, tlw 1!1dwa11 Observatorv ol'/icial told Till' AssoriatPd Prnss on i;ondition of' anonymity. /\11 Parthquak11 with a magnitude of .'i ran catlSI\ co11sidPrabln damage. 

S&P 500: 1335.21



10,648.18 
-0.81 

VOLUME LEADERS 

C:A#lwt TICEU \ CMMAI I C:IQMQI n:r;g GLOSAL C._088JNCJ 08WI -). 95 -1.•tOO. 35.a., 
, ...oo IMC -,,,, in.:u
YHOO -10.74.~0 DILL C0XPD'rl:1': 01lLL +0.13 +-0. o,oo .., .5,~ lll/r~ '"" •J;a.11 . l.1. 31D0 !50,01 
.ua.ox Cotti "'"'..,. rl.'13 -0.5600 Jl.U
,,.au
NCT WOlLDCON IN llfCOX +l. 91 +-J .0050 
Ol"SIJT COIGCUJrfJCA QNH ••• 16 +1.,tu 31.0t UIOHT/TlllNU..J: NIT& •ll.Ol -3.«i04t. lCi.'.U INTEL coaii IN'l'C ... 1. 07 +O -•fl!i ,i.50...,.LOO D&YICIUI ADI +l.96 •~ .ooao '51~50 
UNITED NATIONS 

AFP Photo Sweetness Maxengana, mother of six-day-old triplets Cynthia, Sylvia and Samson, spends quality time with her newborns the day before the "Day of Six Billion." The United Nations fund for population activities singled out Oct. 12 as the day In which the world population passed the 6 bililon mark. 

Population reaches 6 billion 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS 
The world's population reaches 6 billion on Tuesday according to U.N. demographers, and more lhan 1 billion young peo­ple just entering their re produclive years will determine how quickly the next milestone is reached. 
Even with a continuing decline in fertility rales and family size, -~ sheer numbers of the largest "youthquake" in history guarantee enormous pop­ulation growth through 2050, U.N. population experts say. 
Most of these more than 1 billion young people, aged 15 to 24, live in less developed nations where governments are strug• gling to provide education, jobs and social services ­and they urgently need reproductive health infor­mation and services, the 
U.N. Population Fund says. '.'Whether they gel services will determine the future course of popu­lation growth," said Dr. Nafis Sadik, the fund's executive director. "The decisions they make on the size of their family will determine the future lev­els of fertility, and the eventual numbers of the world's population." 
And there is another "youthquake" coming, with 1.8 billion youngsters under the age of 15. 
The world's population has doubled since 1960, 
partly due to some very positive developments, including increased life expectancy and lower infant mortality, Sadik said. 
It would have been higher if the United Nations, voluntary organi­zations and governments had not started promoting family planning and con­traceptive use, which has increased from just 10 percent of women and men in 1969 to 60 percent today, she said. 

Clinton asks for delayed treaty vote 
try to revive the treaty
A..sodated Press 
during the 2000 presiden­
tial election year. 
WASIIINGTON "[ firmly believe the 
At the request of treaty is in the national Republicans, President interest," Clinton wrote in Clinton sent a letter to the the Jetter to Senate Senate on .,,.,,,...,.,..,...,...,,,=""""'"""",,,, Majority Leader Trent Lott MO 11 day and Seuate Minority asking that Leader Tom Daschle. a vote on "However, I recognize t h e there are a significant nuclear number of senators who test ban have honest disagree-treaty be mcnts. Accordingly, I delayed. request that you postpone 
However, Clinton consideration of he the letter Comprehensive Test Ban 
left unanswered the Treaty on the Senate demand by some senators floor." that Clinton promise not to Clinton's letter _ in response to Senate conser­vatives' demand that he put his request in writing -came a dav after three Cabinet members and the White House's national security adviser pleaded the administration's case that rejection by the Senate could hurt nonpro­liferation efforts. 
"I believe that proceed­ing to a vote under hese c.ircumstances would severely harm the national security of the United States, damage our rela• tionship with our allies and undermine our his­toric leadership over 40 years in reducing the 
nuclear threat," Clinton said. 
On Sunday, one llepublican senator, .Jon Kyl of Arizona, said he looked forward to a vole this week that was all but certain to kill the treaty and force the government to "go back to the drawing board." 
Kyl contended a defeat would strengthe the United States' hand in negotiations with other countries. 
"I think the Senate must vote on this treaty and defeat it," he said on "Fox News Sunday." 

page 6 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, Octber I 2, 1999 

FORTUNE 
UJQ-.,_~•• 

~PANIES 

TD WORK FOR 
Imagine looking forward to the week as much as you look forward to the weekend. Imagine spending each minute with unlimited opportunity and continuous options. At Ernst & Young we provide access to the most sophisticated and effective tools in the industry. See you Monday. www.ey.com 

CONSULTING· TAX• ASSURANCE 
s!J ERNST&YOUNG 
FROM THOUGHT TO FINISH.™ 
(il •••• 

Tuesday, October 12, 1999 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 



Rivero: Culture drives Latina literature 
By KATIE MILLER 
News Wri1~r 
liliana Hivcro's cxpnricncc as a Cuban-American woman was a confusing combination of cul­
tures. 
"I folt like hybrid tropical fruit transport(ld to the desert," Hivuro said. "WP-were people hollering to bn lt\l in and to tell our stories." 
Rivt!ro f'ound an outlet in which to oxprnss her frustration and consm1uently, tr.II those sto­rins. As tlw author or "Boleros" in tlw f'orthcoming collection "Latina Fr.minist Testimonies: l'apr.litos (;uardados," Hivcro's writing is dtif'initivl! of many Latina's writing. 
Hivnrn said the combination of two cultures m<plains the sense of' soarching is oftpn at llrn corn of Latina-r\nrnrican writing. 
Hivtiro also nxprnssed the themn of snnsuality as a very rel­evant charactnristic of Latina­Anu~rican writing. 
"Anwrican Latina writers writn with joy," she said. "They explorn tlw power or sensory memory. Their world is some­times dark, but filled with pas­sion. When writing in English, many I .atina writers go back to 
.Spanish words occasionally as a 
punctuation of the heart." 
Rivero read passages from 
books written by Latina­
American authors. 
A passage from "Woman 
Hollering Creek and Other 
Sturies" by Sandra Cisneros tnlls 
the monologue of a woman 
whose husband is an abusive 
alcoholic. Other passages had 
more passionate themes such as 
making love in Spanish. 
Rivero also read from works 
that reflected the importance of 
family in the Latin-American C'Ul­
turc. 

"The mother-daughter rela­
tionship is a central theme, 
along with childhood memories 
and sensuous language," said 
Rivero. "The language is crafted 
with precise culturing." 
Hivero is excited about the 
in11uence of American Latina 
writors. 
"I fuel very much like dream­
ing, hollering, and dancing." 
Hivero said. 
Rivero was born in Cuba and 
livod tlmrn until she immigrated 
to the United States in 1%1 at 
thfl age of 17. Her work has 
focused on Latin America and 
Latinos in the United States, 
specifically their in11uence on 
poetry and women's literature. 

'Sensations' draw-s criticism 
judge began hearings f<riday "Some things are inappro­

. NYC mayor 
to determine whether the priate, but I think it should be

threatens to 
mayor could withdraw muse­terribly obvious. If there is a withdraw funding, um funding in protest of the piece that hurts specific artwork he deemed offensive. groups of people, then it is

support 
The city already cancelled inappropriate, but I have seen its October much worse. I By MARIBEL MOREY payment to saw the work News Writer the museum. '"Art manifests with and it's pretty Catholic clear that it's
the degradation of 
groups also art," Saiz _,aid.

The Brooklyn Museum of 
society. but it is very 
protested the "As a Catholic,

Art's controversial exhibit 
painting. different in this case. I'm not partic­

"Sensations" created heated 
Taxpayers ularly offend­

debate on issues of free It's a blatant insult." 
should not ed. I am confi­

speech, government funding 
be forced to dent in my

and the 
s u p p o-r t Donald Kommers faith and it is

definition 
of art. 
something government professor that confi­they do not dence that
T h e 
think is art, won't be shak­

exhibit 
said Notre en by some­

features, 
Dame government professor one else's interpretation."

among 
Donald Kommers. Some are concerned that

o t h e r 
"Art manifests with the Giuliani's own religious affili­

works, a 
degradation of society, but it ation or political aspirations

Painting Guiliani 
is very different in this case. are interfering in the debate.

of the 
It's a blatant insult," Giuliani may bn a candidate

Virgin 
Kommers said. "Artistic cre­for next year's Senate race in

Mary smeared with elephant 
ations, art like literature and New York. 

dung and surrounded with 
good music, are an important "It's a political group iook­

cutouts from pornographic 
part of American culture. The ing for an issue," said Charles 

magazines. The 1996 paint­
only way an enlightened cul­Loving, director of the Snite

ing, "The Holy Virgin Mary," 
ture is going to reach a large Museum of Art. "It is the fun­

is the work of London artist 
audience is through govern­damental issue of free speech

Chris Ofili. 
ment support, but I don't that would attract national

After two weeks of battle 
think this is art." attention [for Giuliani.)" 

between the museum and 
Martin Saiz, assistant pro­

New York City mayor 
fessor of government, dis­The New York Times con­

Rudolph Guiliani, a Federal 
agreed. 






Clarity Consulting, Inc. 
Looking for a career in a small but nationally-recognizd consulting firm? 
Clarity Consulting, Inc. with offices in dowtown Chicago, specializes in the design and implementation of leading-edge Windows-based client/server information systems. Clarity will be discussing career opportunities in an on­campus presentation. 
-Clarity is a young, talented, entrepreneurial company that has extensive experience in custom application development, strategic planning, technical design and project management within the Fortune 500 community. 
-Clarity is a Microsoft Solution Provider Partner 
-Clarity consultants have diverse educational and technical backgrounds, 
including Computer Science, Engineering, Business, and Liberal Arts. 
If you want an exciting career which offers continuous challenges and a great future, mark our presentation on your calendar. 
Visit www.claritycon.com for more information. 
Date: Wednesday, October 13th Time: 7PM-9PM tr, Place: Morris Inn, Alumni Room *Refreshments will be served 

I a l 1 I N G 

tributed to this report. 


Happy 21st Birthday Margie!! We are Blessed to have a friend like you. 
Love, 18033 B, C 18067 A,B,C,D 18039 C 


UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY rROGRAM IN 


DUBLIN, IRELAND 
"Th• Best of Both Worlds" 

INFORMATION MEETING 
Tuesday, October 12, 1999 102 DcBartolo 
~ 
With Prof. Kevin Whelan, Director Keough-Notre Dame Center, Dublin 
Applications A vailahlc Applicalion Deadline: December I For Fall Z000 -Spring 2001 AY 2000-2001 


... 
-
page 8 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, October 12, 1999 
SAUDI ARABIA 


U.S. deports Saudi bolllbing suspect 
RIYADH, Saudi Arabia 
A Saudi dissident suspected of taking part in an attack that killed 19 U.S. airmen has arrived home after being deported from the United States, interior minister Prince Nayef said Monday. 
"The suspect is now in the hands of Saudi justice and he will be interrogated just like any other suspect. lie will be tried accord­ing to Sayegh would not be tortured and would receive a fair trial. 

U.S. authorities were promised access to him in Saudi Arabia to make certain he was not tortured. 
Earlier, al-Sayegh's wife told The Associated Prnss in Dubai in a telephone inter­view from her home in the eastern Saudi city of Qatif that al-Saycgh's family had 
not yet been able 
Islamic law," to find him
"Hani said, 'Don't worry 
Prince Nayef a lawyer.
about me. We'll be
told the Hakima Saudi Prt>ss together soon. I am inno~ al-Qatri 
Agency. said her
cent and God will take
Hani al­husband 
Sayegh is care of things.'" had spoken wanted in on Lhe Saudi Arabia phone with
Hakima al-Qatrl 
on charges her and
suspect's wife 
their two
of participat­ing in a 1996 bombing attack that killed 19 U.S. air­men. 
Saudi officials allege that al-Sayegh drove a car that signaled the driver of an explosives-laden truck when to pull up to the Khobar Towers apartments, where the U.S. military personnel lived. 
Al-Sayegh's request for a stay of deportation on grounds that he faces torture in Saudi Arabia was rejected on Thursday by a court in Atlanta, where he had been detained for the last two years. 
Prince Nayef said his gov­ernment has "specific evi­dence and information that confirm the involvement of al­Sayegh in the unjust terrorist act in the city of Khobar about three years ago." 
The Saudi official said his government is seeking the deportation of several other Saudi suspects in connection with the bombing. He did not disclose their whereabouts. 
Al-Sayegh left the United States on a U.S. government aircraft late Sunday evening from Atlanta. 
Accompanied on the 11ight by FBl and immigration ser­vice agents, he arrived in Riyadh on Monday, the U.S. Justice Department said. 
U.S. Attorney General Janet Reno said she received assur­ances from the Saudis that al­

children, 
Sukeina. 7, and Mustapha, 5, on Wednesday. 
The children are unaware that he was in jail and believe he works in the United States, she said. 
"Hani said, 'Don't worry about me. We'll be together soon. I am innocent and God will take care of things,"' she said. 
Saudi lawyers have said al­Sayegh's case is politically sensitive and unless the authorities specifically ask for their services no one will dare get involved. 
Al-Sayegh has admitted to being. a political opponent of the monarchy but says he was not involved in the bombing. He claims he and his brother have been tortured in Saudi jails. 
Unknown to him, the broth­er, 28-year-old Mohammed who worked in a bank, was imprisoned last year without charges, al-Qatri said. 
Al-Qatri and the children have not seen al-Sayegh. 30, since July 1996. 
The family used to live in Iran, where Al-Sayegh was a theology student. In 1996 al­Saye gh went to Kuwait to look for a job while his wife and children went to Saudi Arabia to visit relatives. But they were blocked by Saudi authorities from leaving and al-Sayegh moved from Kuwait to Canada. 

EAST TIMOR 
Peacekeepers deny killing police 
DILI, East Timur 
International peacekeepers today blamed anti-indcpen­chmce militants for provoking bloodshed on the East Timor border Lhat has heightened tensions between the foreign forces and the Indonesian mili­tary. 
The peacekeepers denied the Indonesian army's claim that a squad of Australian troops killed one Indonesian police­man and wounded four in Sunday's clash and that the incident happened in Indonesian-controllo<l West Timor. 
A senior Australian army officer said two militia mem­bers were wounded and nobody was killed. 
If Indonesian police had been directlv involved, it would have been the first clash between international troops and Indonesian forces since the deployment of tho foreign peacekeepers to East Timor on Sept. 20. 
The peacekeepers were sent to the territory after militia­men and their allies in the Indonesian army launched a wave of terror following East Timor's overwhelming vote for independence in an Aug. 30 referendum. 
Indonesian military, police and government officials today repeated accusations that the Australian-led force is using brutality and is illegally enter­ing Indonesian territory. 
However, Indonesian Foreign Minister Ali Alatas said the Indonesian military and the peacekeepers have formed a team to investigate the shoot­ing. "Both sides have no inter­est in worsening the situation," he told reporters in Jakarta. 
In Dili, East Timur's capital, Australian Col Mark Kelly, the chief of staff of the intcrnation-· al forces, maintained that the militia force fired at about 40 Australian soldiers on Sunday. They shot back, wounding two militiamen. 
"The group that was first seen to engage international troops were wearing T-shirts and militia garb," Kelly said. 
Indonesian soldiers and police were accompanying the militants at the time and "were probably involved in the inci­dent," but didn't appear to fire shots themselves, he said. 
He said no Australians were wounded. 
In Melbourne, Australia, East Timorese independence leader Jose Alexandre "Xanana" <iusmao accused 1.ndonesian forces of provoking the clash "to see hnw much the Australian troops are ready to fight." 
Kelly said senior peacckcep­i n g officers met with Indonesian military and police commanders in Dili on Sunday to demand an explanation for the attack. During the talks, "both sides agreed the incident occurred in East Timor," Kelly said. 
But that didn't seem to be the case in the Indonesian cap­ital Jakarta. 
Maj. Gen. Sudrajat, a military spokesman, said the police were only guarding the West Timorese border when the peacekeepers opened fire on them. 
During a break in the Parliament, legislators from four different parties, including two opposition ones, con­demned the peacekeeping forces for Sunday's fighting 


I 
I 
and urged Indonesian forces to attack them when they violate the country's sovereignty. 
"The incident makes it very clear that there is no goodwill by the peacekeeping forces toward Indonesia. The Indonesian military has to ... shoot those that violate Indonesian territory. 
Once we tolerate them, they will trample on our sovereign­ty," said Slamet Effe11di Yusuf, a lawmaker of the ruling Golkar Party. 
East Timor's anti-indepen­dence leaders urged lawmak­ers to reject the tMritory's vote to become a separate country. The 700-member Indonesian legislature must decide next week whether to approve the results of the L .N .-sponsored referendum. 
Two anti-Australian protests also took place outside the country's embassy in .Jakarta. In one, 150 students chanted slogans such "Australians are dogs!" and "Australia, go to hell!" 
The clash was the third fire­fight involving the peacekeep­ers in the last week, and some fear the upsurge in violence means that Indonesian-trained militants have launched a guerrilla campaign to partition East Timor. 
Two militiamen were killed Wednesday and another was shot to death Saturday in sepa­rate clashes with peacekeepers near the border. 
Hours after Sunday's clash an Indonesian police officer in• Motaain said police belonging to a mobile brigade unit had fired warning shots to let the Australians know they wrongly had crossed over to the west­ern side of the island. 
I 
ii 
ii 

·,0:.. _?JE'··"'".::~­
Are you considerip.g theologital educatiqn? 

Div.inity and the Master ofTheologi~ Studies, about . related resources within Harvard University's other gr;~duatc faculties and the nine-school Boston Theological Institute, 
Au STUDENTS, ALL MAJORS ANDA.1.{YEARS Wtj,c;ow: 
For more information, contact the Office ofAqrnjs~fons and. Fm:wGii\lAid at (617) 495-5796 or consult the Harvard Divinity School web$ite at 
http://www.hds,harvardedu 
Tuesday, October 12, 1999 The Observer .NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
7 

1 
Homosexuals urged to denounce lifestyle 
as people can come out of' the
. Falwell offends 
closet, so can people choose togay bystanders, come out against a sinful lifestyle."
provokes violence 
The presentation was designed "to reach out to the Associaced l're•s homosoxual community in a spirit of love," said Allen 
SAN FRANCISCO 

Wildmun, a spokesman for the Gay activists hissed, booed and .,"..morican Family Association, a 
scrnamed Monday as the Hev. 
conservative Christian group
.Jerry Falwnll lectured via satel­that sponsored the event with litn to a group of gays and les­
Falwell. Wildmon is the brother bians about giving up homosex­
of the association's founder, ltality. 
Donald Wildmon. 
One membf'r of ACT UP San 
Michael Johnston, the pie's
Francisco threw a blueberry pie intended target, said he walked at a member of the group that 
away from relationships with 
organi.md Palwell's sp1wch from 
men after testing positive for Lynchburg, Vil.• to about 60 pco­
HIVin 1986. 
phi in a building in Golden Gate 
"If we really believe what we Park. say we believe. it would be hate­"Christian bigots out of our ful not to reach out and share 
city," cried Josh Trcntcr, who 
thP. Christian gospel with these was hauled away by police after 
people," he said. "If we reallyallegedly tossing the pin. I le and 
hated them, we would leave another nrnmber of his gay 
them alone and let them go on rights group were cited f'or hat­
their way." terv and rnleased. The speech was chosen to 
"(;od loves you and so do I," coincide with National Coming
Falwell told the audience. "Just Out Day. 




Trial begins in Shepard beating 
death sentence if convicted However, hate-crime legisla­

Associated Press 
of' murder. tion failed in Wyoming last Shepard, 21, a University winter after lawmakersLARAMIE, Wyo. 

of Wyoming freshman major­argued that gays and otherAaron McKinney beat gay ing in political science, died protected groups would get

college student Matthew 
a year ago Tuesday, five special treatment.

Shepard on the windswept days after he was lured out The trial also opened onWyoming prairie but his 
of a bar, driven to a remote the day that gay activists call

judgment was clouded by 
spot on the freezing prairie, National Coming Out Day

drugs and alcohol. 
lashed to a wooden fence and the beginning of Gay

McKinney's attorney said and pistol-whipped into a Awareness Week. In San
Monday as jury selection 
coma. Francisco. the Rev. Jerry

began in his murder trial. 
Prosecutors say McKinney, Falwell marked the occasionLawyer Dion Custis said he 

22, accompanied by by preaching to gays and les­

would not point the finger at 
Henderson, b i a n s

Russell Henderson, 
also 22, insti-a b o u t

McKinney's co-defendant 
gated the how to

who has pleaded guilty to "I don't think anyone 
crime to rob CO Ille

murder and is serving life in 
the 5-foot-2, here is going to suggest out of'

prison. 
105-pound homosex­
this is a hate crime. " 

"We're not going to contest 
Shepard of uality."

the cause of death or that he 
$20, but that By the

died as a result of a beating 
Dion Custis
Shepard may end the

from Aaron McKinney along 
have been McKinney defense lawyer day. 21

with Russell Henderson," 
targeted prospec­

Custis said. 
because he t i V e

He said he would not con­
was gay. jurors

tend that McKinney was 
Henderson is had been

insano, but said "his mental expected to testify fur the dismissed, including a manstate will certainly be a cru­
prosecution. reporters saw pass a note to

cial question for you to 
Custis told the prospects he Shepard's mother during theanswer." 

was concerned about the lunch break. The man indi­

Custis' comments marked widespread attention stem­cated the note expressed his
the first time he has unveiled ming from the case, which condolences. The pool of 256 
a strategy for defending 
brought gay-rights issues to candidates is about the aver­McKinney, who is facing the the forefront. "I don't think age size for a murder case in 

HOMES FOR RENT 

-Domus Propeties has two, five, six,and nine bedroom student housing available 
-Student neighborhoods close to campus 
-Security systems provided 
-Well maintained homes 
-Maintenance staff on call 
Available for the 2000/200 I school year 
Contact Kramer (219) 274-150 I or (219) 674-2571 or (219) 234-2436 
anyone here is going to sug­Laramie. gest this is a hate crime," he McKinney's father, said. William, sat near the back of 
Prosecutor Cal Rerucha the room, his eyes cast warned the juror candidates downward. He was accom­that they must treat both panied by three supporters. sides fairly, regardless of On the other side of the their prejudices. "Whether aisle, Shepard's parents, you're Catholic or Muslim, if Dennis and Judy, sat in a you are straight or gay, back row. everyone is treated equal," Seventeen members of' a he said. group called Angel Action, 
As the trial began, a few wearing golden halos and anti-gay protesters demon­costumes made of white bed­strated outside the court­sheets, stood silently in the house, along with people street. Spokeswoman who came to honor Romaine Patterson, 21, of Shepard's memory, wearing State College, Pa., said the angel costumes to spread group wanted to send a mes­what they said was a mes­sage of love. sage of love. Nearby, six followers of the 
Inside, McKinne)I talked Rev. Fred Phelps. 69, of quietly with his layvyers, Topeka, Kan., waved signs looked at his notes and bearing anti-gay slogans. smiled occasionally as the Many residents in Laramie attorneys spoke. appeared to be taking little 
McKinney has said he had notice. no idea Shepard was gay and "You know, maybe the does not hate homosexuals. town just wants it over," said 
The killing provoked a Ben Rashford, 23, a national debate over hate University of Wyoming grad­crimes and led to measures uate student. "Laramie is not across the country adding that different than any place sexual orientation to anti­else. People like to think that discrimination laws. but it's not." 


THE CANDAX MCNAIR PROGRAM ANNOUNCES THE 1990 -2000 RECRUITMENT MEETING WITH PROF. MARIO BORELLI 
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1999 
4:30 -5:30 PM 
CUSHING ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM (DEADLINE FOR APPLICATION: Nov. 5) 

FORALL UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS WHOARE EITHER: 
• First Generation College Students from low income families 
(all ethnic backgrounds are eligible) 
or 

• African Americans, Hispanics, Native Americans 
Dr. Ronald E. McNair 
( visit the ro ram at htt ://www.nd.edu/~mario/mcnair/) 
page 10 The Observer . ELECTION NEWS Tuesday, October 12, 1999 




Bradley closes in on Gore in latest CNN election poll 
support of 51 percent while 
Associated Press 

Bradley, a former senator fromNew Jersey, had 39 per­
WASHINGTON 
cent among people likely to
Bill Bradley is closing the gap vote in a Democratic primary. 
on Al Gore in the race for the A CNN/USA Today/Gallup poll Democratic presidential nomi­taken a few weeks ago, in mid­
nation 


September, showed Gore with
although 

63 percent and Bradley with 30
both are 

percent.
still well 

Much or Bradley's recent
behind GOP progress in the polls has been

front-run­in key states like New 

ner George 

Hampshireand New York,
W. Bush, where he and Gore are very

says a CNN/ close.

Gallup/USA 

Gore In the national poll releasedToday poll 
Monday, Gore and Bradley
released 

were in a statistical dead heatMonday. 
among male voters, but GoreVice President Gore had the 

Dole sets caIDpaign kick-off date 
that date reflects my sense 
Associated Press 

that we will make history," Dole said in a release.
WASHTNGTON 

The Dole campaign also
Republican Elizabeth Dole confirmed on Mondav thatsaid Monday that she will 

she will JOIIl ·other
formally kick off her cam­

Republican presidentialpaign on Nov. 7, hoping candidates in New
that date 

Hampshire's nationally tele­will turn 

vised debate Oct. 28 atinto the 
Dartmouth College.
anniver­

Dole. who has been cam­
sary of paigning since early this

her elec­year, will launch her officialtion to kickoff swing in Des Moines, the White Iowa. From there, the tourHouse. 

traces her strategy for next
" I t ' s 

year's early nominating
e x a c t 1y Dole 

contests. She will appear in 
one year Manchester, N.H., and

before the first presidential Columbia, S.C., on Nov. 8election of the new millen­

before wrapping up the
nium and our selection of 
hoopla in her hometown. 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS 

FREMANTLE, AUSTRALIA 
"Tile Land Down Under" 
INFORMATION MEETING With Julliet Ma)'inja, Assistant Director Fr. Wilson Miscamblc, C.S.C. Prof. John Halloran 
Wednesday October 13, 1999 102 DeBartolo 4:45-5:45 P.M. 
APJ'LICATIQN DEADI INE· DECEMBER I, 122!1 
led among women. 
The Gore campaign expressed confidence that the vice president's campaign efforts will connect with voters around the country. 
"Everywhere Al Gore travels, grassroots voters arc tuning to his campaign and his message and time will show the strength of his effort across the coun­try." said Gore campaign spokeswoman Kiki Moore. Gore got good news Monday when there were growing signs that the AFL-CIO will back his can­didacv. 
But· Bradley aides pointed to the latest poll numbers as a sign that Gore's aggressive new 

Gore mingles with hardhats 
nized labor, we 're for him," Gore told some 100 party Associated Press 
Harvey said of Gore. faithful who greeted him at An endorsement, expected this Harrah's hotel-casino that he PHOENIX week, by the 13-million-member will "bring change that works As he awaited a major labor AFL-CIO is crucial to Gore's bid for working families," includingfederation's endorsement, Vice 

· to win the an expansion

President Al Gorn took his cam­
Democratic of access to 

paign straight to the rank and "As long as he supports 
presidential health care for 

file on Monday. 
nomination organized labor, we're for children. 

"I'm very grateful for all the over chal­Earlier, Gore
him."

working men· and women who lenger Bill sought to boost have helped me in this cam­Bradlev. his supportpaign," Gore said at a construc­A s .k e d Ron Harvey among another tion site where he mingled with 
whether he electrician group

several hardhats who greeted 
was certain teachers. 

him with applause and hand· of the AFL-Gore met 
shakes. 
CIO's sup-with about 45 Gore added that they deserve port, Gore said: ''I'm hopeful." mostly poor, Hispanic pupils and 

a $1 increase in the national 
Gore later took his pledge to their teachers at one of the minimum wage. Legislation that support "working families" to area's oldest elementary schools would make an increase possible the Las Vegas Strip, home to a shortly after arriving in Phoenix. 

is pending in the House. 
powerful contingent of heavily He called on Congress to Ron Harvev. a unionized elec­unionized hotels and casinos. Ile approve money to build more trician, beamed as Gore greeted hoped to raise $200,000 at a schools, hire more teachers,the workers. 

$1,000-a-plate fund-raiser reduce class sizes and upgrade"As long as he supports orga-Monday evening. dilapidated schools. 

on't Miss It! 


October 14, 1999 11 a.m. -3 p.m. 
1999 Midwest Association of Pre-Law Advisors (MAPLA) Caravan 
at 
. 


The University of Notre Dame JACC-Concourse 
r--------------------------------­
I

1 
0 
1 BELOW ARE THE NAMES OF A FEW OF THE 1 : 100 U.W SCHOOLS SENDING REPRESENTATIVES : 
1 roNW~MME 1 

0 
I I 
l i
Boston University Chicago-Kent (IIT)I Duke Llniversity Harvard Law School : 1 Indiana Universities Lewis & Clark 1

L 
Loyola Universities Michigan State University :
1 

a 
New York University Northeastern University 1 
Ohio State University Oklahoma City 
I 

w Penn State-Dickinson Pepperdine University 
1 

Saint Louis University St. Mary's University-TX : Syracuse University Temple University 1s Texas Wesleyan Thomas Jefferson \ Thomas M. Cooley Tulane Law School 1
C 
Univ. of Akron Univ. of Buffalo l Univ. of CA-Berekely Univ. of CA-Davis 
1

... 
<> 
Univ. d CA-Hastings Univ. of CA-Los Angeles : Univemy of Chicago Univ. of Connecticut 
1 

University of Miami University of Kentucky \ <> University of Pittsburgh University of Texas-Austin \ Univ. of Pennsylvania Valparaiszo University 
I 1 
Univ. of Southern CA Washington & Lee 1 1 Yale Law School Yeshiva University 
I

s 
L-------------------------------._____, 
tactics, including direct attacks on Bradley, aren't working. 
Bradley spokesman Eric Hauser said: "The public has been pretty clear that they want politics to be upright and positive." 
More than half the Bradley supporters said in the poll that it was at least fairly important that Bradley has fewer ties to President Clinton than Gorn. But most of those planning to vote Democratic found Bradley and Gore acceptable as nomi­nees for their party. 
President Clinton had a job approval rating of 56 percent, but almost two-thirds said they don't approve of him as a per­son. 
Either candidate faces a for­mid able task running against Bush, the governor of Texas and GOP front-runner by a huge margin in the latest poll. Bush was at 60 percent among theRepublican candidates among people likely to vote in a GOP primary. Former Cabinet secretary Elizabeth Dole was at 11 percent and Arizona Sen. John McCain was at 8 percent.The remaining five Republican candidates were in the low single-digits. 
Bush has a 16-point lead over Gore and a 12-point lead over Bradley in head-to-head­matchups. 

Tuesday, October 12, 1999 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 11 


University offers meningitis vaccine 
Associated Pres. 
EAST LANSING. Mich. 

llundrnds of Michigan State University students lined up Monday for vaccines againsl bac­tl!rial meningitis as another stu­dent remained in thn hospital hatlling the infoctim1. 
Adam Busuttil was in critical wndition Sunday. his doctor said, and the univmsity said his concli­lion was unchangud Monday morning. University and hospital o11icials declined to update his rnndition Monday al'lcrnoon, cit­ing his family's rnquest. 
Busuttil b11came ill Friday and passed out Saturday night from tlw infection. n11~ningococcal nwningitis. I In is an insLrumen­lal music mlucation sophomorn who plays Uw cymbals in thP Michigan Slalll marching hand. 
Thn univ"rsity is offoring antibiotics to anyorw who may lrnvP come into close contact with Busuttil. including the 950 1woplc who live in his dorm and Llw :mo mnrnlwrs of the ban<l. It also is olforing a vaccirw lo the 1mtirn uniVl!l"Sity community and is picking up tlrn $:iO-pcr-person cost of tlw vacF.ination until Nov. 
I. 
Whil1\ t!m antibiotics trnat the infoclion, llm vacdrw is more of a prnvmitivn mtmsure. 1lowcvPr, il cannot prol1:ct against one of tlw livn forms of nrnningococcal mnningitis, officials said. Univ,irsity officials won't know which strain Busuttil has until lat1ir this wnPk. 
Meningitis is a swelling of the lining surrounding the brain and spinal cord and comes in two forms -the common and not very serious viral meningitis and the rare bacterial mPningitis, which can be fatal. Busuttil has the bacterial form. 
Several hundreds of students lined up for the vaccines Monday. 
"We live on the other side of campus, but we decided to get it," said biology sophomore Ilcbecca Gould as she and room­mate llita Brust drank juice after getting their shots. ''It's frefl and it's going to protect us for thrnc to five years, sn why not get it'?'' 
This is lhe second time in three years that the university has given the mass vaccination after a stud1-mt got sick, Three students got tho disease from December 1996 to March 1997, and two died. After that out­brnak, 19,000 people chose to be vaccinated. 
Mm1ingococcal meningitis is spread by intimate or dirccl con­tact. Symptoms are a fover of more than 101 degrees and a severe headachn, neck or back stiffness, rashes or mental changcis, such as agitation or confusion. 
Beth Kramer. 19, said she took the antibiotics and got the vac­cine. 
"I never knew the kid, but because I live in the same dorm, I want,id to lake the extra pre­caution," she said. 
Sweeney endorses Gore 
As,ociate<l Pres, 
LOS ANGELES 
AFL-CIO President John Sweeney declared war Monday on an "ugly, anti-poor, anti­working family" Republican congressional majority as all signs pointed to an endorse­ment of Vice President Al Gore -nudged along by President Clinton -from the 13-million­mcmbcr labor federation. 
The endorsement, the AFL­CIO's earliest since its 1983 nod tCl former Vice Prnsident Walter Mondale, would almost imme­diately kick in to gear a $40­million mobilization meant as much to strengthen Gore as to wrest control of Congress from 
_ the Hepublicans and topple GOP presidential front-runner George W, Bush. "Outrage is right here in this hall! It is pounding in the heart of every trade unionist in this country as our perverted United States Congress contin­ues to boost those who are up and kick those who arc down," Sweeney howled to 1,000 union activists gathered for the bien­nial AFL-CIO convention. Workers would flex th11ir out­rage, Sweeney promised, "by taking back control of our gov­ernment, by Alecting a working family president, and by taking a broom to the llouse." lie slammed the GOP's recently proposed tax cuts and balanced-budget plan to delay a tax credit for the working poor. !Jnions should be fired up. Sweeney added, by their success in 1998 in whittling the Republican majority in the 
House and sending "Speaker Gingrich pouting into early retirement." 
Hepublican National Committee spokesman Mike Collins replied from Washington: "The average working class man and woman is of no interest to these union 
bosses in their Gucci loafers and $600 suits in their down­t o w n Washington luxury otlice suites." 
Union del­egates seat­ed at orderly rows of tables cheered H o u s e Minority Leader Dick Gophardt's call for help pulting 
Democrats in control in Washington "so that we can get people -union or non-union -to have a fair shake in this country for their hard work and their productivity." 
The endorsement stakes grew so high in the days lead­ing up to the convention that Clinton reached out to several labor leaders, placing calls to International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers chief J.J. Barry, and to a mutual friend of Clinton's and United Food and Commercia·l Workers President Doug Oority. In testi­mony to some feeling here that · 



The Keough Institute for Irish Studies · · University ofNotre Dame 
Seminar 

Prof. Thomas Devine 
Director, Research Institute of Irish and Scottish Studies University of Aberdeen, Scotland 
"Irish Migration to Scotland in the Modern Period" 
Thursday, October 14, 1999 
10:30 a.m. 
Hesburgh Library Lounge 
Goni had taken labor for grant­ed, !BEW political director Rick Diegel said Clinton called Barry over the weekend to say thanks, apparently unaware that Barry remained undecided until Monday morning. 
Clinton's message, Dority said, was that the stakes had 
"Outrage is right here in this hall! It is pounding in the heart ofevery trade unionist in this country as our perverted United States Congress continues to boost those who are up and kick those who are down. " 
John Sweeney AFL-CIO president 
·been  "so  
ginned  up  
that  we  

didn't want it to appear that wn worn doing some­thing that would hurt" Gore. 
A f t e r Sweeney's own back­room lobby­ing, which continued into the hours just before his keynote speech, the 
endorsement of Gore finally appeared secure. 
'Tm a firm believer in not counting my chickons until they hatch," Gore said from the campaign frail, although he had already made plans for a victorious acceptance speech at the Los Angeles Convention Center on Wedn11sday. 
A disgruntled undercurrent among union delegates who felt bullied by the accelerated endorsement was palpable on the convention floor Monday. Paul Hunt, an airline grounds crewman with the Transportation Workers said. 

.---------,.-------------------,--~-----------------------------------~·--,.-,---------------­






VIEWPOINT 
O
THE page 12 BSERVER Tuesday, October 12, 1999 
THE OBSERVER 
J>.O. Box Q, Norre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Norre Dame, IN 46556 
EorroR IN CHIEF Michelle Krupa 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
M. Shannon Ryan  David Rogero  
A.~ST. l\1A:t;AGING Eorrou  
Laura Petclle  

NEWS EDITOR: Tim Logan Vi.t-WPOINT Eo!TOR: Colleen Gaughen SPORTS EDITOR: Brian Kessler 
SCENE EmTOR: Michael Vanegas SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie PHOTO EmTOR: Kevin Dalum 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: B1yan Lurz 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Bret Huelar SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kushto 
CONTROLLER: Timorhy lane GRAPHICS Elmoa, Joe Mueller 
CONTACT Us 

OFFICE MANAGER/GENERA!. INFO, ..........631-7471 
FAX..,, ............................ , .. ·•············· .....631-6927 
ADVERTISING., ........,........., ..., ...... ,..63! -6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd,edu EDITOR IN CHIEF,..............................631-4542 MANAGING E0!T0R/AssT. ME.., .., .............. 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS., ................. .,.......... ,.......... ,...............631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT........,, .......... ,..... .,... ,........ ., ......631-5303 observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu 
SPORTS............ , .. .......... ,.............. ,..............631-4543 
observeuporrs. l@nd.edu SCENE....,. ......, .................,... ,......................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S .. ,...... ,.........., ... ,....................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO... ,.......... ,.. ,. ........................ ,............ 631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .. .. ., ..........631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web sire at http.llobserver. nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sporrs, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from rhe A.ssociared Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 

movies/music for 
minute forecasts 

weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 

online features for spe­
and rates of pri nr ads 

cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 

about The Observer 
articles published alter 

to meer the editors and 
Augus1 1999 
Staff 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the Universiry ofNoire Dame du Lac and Saint Mary•s College. Editorial contem is not governed by policies of the administration of eirher institution. Aning as pub­lisher ofThe Observer, rhe adminisrrarion of the Universiry ofNorre Dame du Lac prohibits the adver­.tisernenr ofalcohol and The Observer's acceptance of 
advertisements from specified types ofgroups. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edirorials represent rhe opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managir1g Editor and department edirors. Commentaries, lerters and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily 1hose ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is avaiiable to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lerrers is encoucaged. 
Questions regarding Observerpo!icie, should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefMirhelk Krupa 

In American political discourse, terms like "compassionate conservative," "modei:ate ~P;public:i~;'' "lib:ral, Republican, ccntnst and social mod­erate," are thrown about with some degree of frequency. I think that my 
Sean Vinck 
beliefs transcend these rather narrow categories. Count me a "reluctant Not peace, but Republican." I dedi­the sword cate this column to articulating the gripes of "reluctant Republicans" every­where. 
Permit me this brief autobiographical musing before I begin:­
One great period in my life was November 1994. ft was the midterm election when the Republican Party gained control of both houses of Congress for the first time in 40 years. It was a watershed in American History; not one Republican incumbent (or pro­life incumbent, for that matter) was defeated in any election for any office anywhere in the United States. It seemed that not only had the Republicans taken over the legislative branch of the govern­ment, but also American "conservatism" had been brought back to life after the defeat of Bush, and the Clintons were sent careening into utter political free­fall. And I felt great for the rest of the year. 
Yet. the Republican "revolution" that had so excited me in 1994 has since gone terribly awry -this is why I am a reluc­tant Republican. Let me elaborate. 
Surfing the Web recently, I stumbled onto the Web site of the National Republican Congressional Committee (VV"\,\,'W.nrcc.org.) The page entitled "agenda," where the House Republicans putatively describe those things they hold as principle. beginning with this state­ment: "Democrats and Republicans real­ly are different." The fact that my party has to even utter that phrase proves that the argument has already been lost. To have to argue in such a strenuous fash­ion that the two parties actually have dif­ferences demonstrates that public already believes that the two parties are virtually indistinguishable. In politics, perception is more real than reality. The Republicans must learn that in order to argue that your party is actually different from the opposition, you must act in a different fashion, not just say that you are different. 
And what rationale would the Republicans offer to prove their dubious claim that they "really are different?" Consider this direct quotation: "Ever since President Johnson needed fast cash to pay for the 'Great Society,' money going into the Social Security Trust Fund has been taken right back out again to pay for bigger government, needless waste and outrageously unnecessary projects. Congressional Republicans have a bill that sets aside 100 percent of the money going for Social Security and Medicare to pay for just these benefits. The Democrat proposal uses these funds for other government spending." I thought that Social Security and Medicare were prime examples of"big­ger government, needless waste and out­rageously unnecessary projects." But, I suppose I am wrong. The Republicans distinguish themselves from Democrats by claiming that, "Congressional Republicans have a bill that set's aside 100 percent of the money going for Social Security and Medicare to pay for . just these benefits. The Democrat pro­posal uses these funds for other govern­ment spending." So, the Republicans are going to spend my tax dollars on need­lessly wasteful and outrageous projects like Medicare and Social Security rather · than on other needlessly wasteful and outrageous projects that characterize nine-tenths of the Federal Bureaucracy. 
The Republican Party, my party, opposed virulently the very creation of the federal entitlements of Medicare and Social Security. They argued correctly that these programs were manifestations of creeping socialism, and were not the legitimate interest of the Federal Government. Now that the Republican and Conservative opposition to socialism and it:; redistributive policies has been so effectively silenced and demonized, we resort to pathetic arguments about how we arc somehow less wastP.ful in the operation of socialistic programs than the Democrats are in order to score a political point. The spirit of Robert Alfonso Taft now weeps in despair. 
My party once fought valiantly against the broad spectrum of liberal ideals com­monplace in the late twentieth century: internationalism, the New Deal, Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid and the forever-increasing federal minimum wage. It now not only fails to resist the continued implementation of these poli­cies, but actually brags about adminis­tering them in a more efficient fashion. 
Conservatism in the United States has always been a. tricky beast. There a.re a variety of competing interests and ide­ologies among people who could be described reasonably as "conservative." Yet, conservatism has always been opposed to communism, and his/her sis­ter, socialism. It has generally opposed the legalization of actions that have been long considered loathsome in a Christian society. It has generally opposed increas• es in the rates of taxation. The Republican Party has failed woefully to even begin to implement these ideals on a nationallevel through legislation, exec­utive action, judicial decree or concerted political activism. Instead, it boasts of redistributing wealth in a more stream­lined manner than the Democrats. 
My fundamental error has always been this: The assumption that the Rnpublican Party was actually committed to the gen­eral spectrum of conservative interests. My father told me when I was an adoles­cent that the Republican Party supports but one dogmatic principle: It is very much in favor of getting itself elncted. 
Dad, how right you are. 
Sean Vinck is a junior PLS major. His column is featured every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
DILBERT 

A. 5£.LECT GROUP OF ·  
Wf>.LLY,  YOU'RE  EMPLOYE.ES  WILL  
INVITED TO  M.'<  MEET  AFTER WORK  
NEW  "~FTER-5  TO THINK  OF  
CLUB."  CREATT.V£  !DEAS.  

SCOTT ADAMS 

IS THERE A CLUB FOR PEOPLE WHO KNOW 
HOW TO THINK 
OUR1NG BU51N£$S 
HOURS? 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Education is an admirable thing. but it is well t.o remember from time to time that nothing worth knowing can be taught." 
Oscar Wilde author, 'The Critic as Artist' 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 
Tuesday, October 12, 1999 BSERVER page 13 
The 'kiss of death' for satirists 
l ollicially decidnd to be a humor God knows what else before sutldenly wril1ir as a freshman in college. when I deciding to become a very loud conser­attnndncl a d<1batn foaturing political vativc. Grizzard wound up unbalanced salirisl P..J. O'Hourkti. {You hacl to love /\ND dead: lie married his fourth wife this guy. They made him spN1k in just days before reaching his expiration Stcpmi Lhc God-date. Kamikaze pilots have a better awful Cnuter, and mortality rate. tlu• first words out Mary Beth Ellis ThHy say that Grizzard sufler<'d com-of his mouth plh.:ations from major heart surgery, wNe, "Thank you Changing Will Hogers went down in a plane for inviting me to . d crash, and Mark Twain died of general
attitu es,

your Univiwsity. crotchetiness. but that's what they and this v,~ry changing WANT you to believe. The lt~acting 
attractive build-latitudes cause of de,ath in humor writers is this: 
ing.") At a post-editors. 
prnsnntation You see, written humor, likl' spoken 
n1cnptio11, teems oJ'pcoplc pressed humor, hinges upou Liming. And in 
adoringly against him: "I rnaHy enjoy writing, timing is dictated by pr11cise 
discussing your articles with my par-word emphasis, paragraph breaks and 
unts." punctuation. Colons, 
"Buy you a beer. for instance, arc WAY PJ"" funnier than exclama­
"You'vn clmngi,d ti(;n points. Capital let­mv Pntir,, outlook ters are HILARIOUS. or; politics!" And when editors 
"llow many start tinkering with books have you your timing -two publislwd now'' paragraphs forced Eight?" into an arranged mar­
l stood al the riage here, a comma fringes or tlw bcmched for a period · r.rowd absorbing there -life as we lhmm dnclarations know it ceases to of hrolhnrhood that exist. It would bf' as ii' writing had Mark McGwirn let a wrought, a pro-pitch go by him, wait­linmd n!alization od for George zipping through Steinbrenner to fire nw: !/'you bf)Co11w somebody, bought a a sucwssf"ul Lemon Chill from a humorist. pnople passing vendor, hung will givn you beer. around watching the To hell with joining first baseman scratch tlrn Air Force and himself and THEN becoming an astrn-swung the bat. You naul! You can't !it simply wind up look-a keg into an F-16! ing like a total pot­
1lumor writing is head. So, when a con-easier than fiction, glomeration of fuel-in which you havn clogged •,vriting hits to make up a com-the general public pl11tcly original sto-beneath your name, rylinn, which is the first thing you do basically impossi-is start looking for a hie since llrnrn arc plugged-in hair dryer onlv about five cheerfully bobbing in plots in cxistnncn. a body of water. (SI, rnkespcarc took This happened to thrne or them; me with my most Steven Spicllmrg recent column. 1 got the othnr two.) opened The Observer It's morn to find that poor, respoctabln than unwitting sentences frnc-vnrsn poetry. ,,._ had been rammed which allows you to L-------~-w-~_~_\_~IJ_~_--' together, the .:lr1"vv1hat 
scalt1!r aboul 17 the hell is this? -the words around the pagti and call it a opening paragraph had been day, but thPn you have the problem of rearranged, and OH MY GOD THEY convincing p1)oplc to give you money to COMPLETELY CHANGED THE END-
do this. ING! NO! NO NO! NO! 
Still, humor writing isn't a trcmcn-There it was: A horribly-timed wad of dously stable occupation. Barely do the English language, credited wholly pnoplo offer to buy you boor when you lo mo, circling my alma mater and the r1Htlly tHmd it, whicb is whm1 you're whole entire Internet. So the only logi­adually att,•mpting lo write. And it's an cal course of action, from wher<' I was extraordinarily dangerous line of work. sitting, was to e-mail a copy of the orig­
That's no jokn. lrnre's a random sam-inal, unedited column to every person I piing of llH\jor humor columnists: Dave had <wor mf't (all 11 of them), explain Barry. Will Hogen.;. Mark Twain. Erma what had happened, and ingest about 8 Bmnb<'ck. P..I. O'Hourkc. Lewis gallons of Drano. And although the Grizzard. reaction of all the people I have ever 
What instantly leaps out at you Ii-om met was comforting and sympathetic that list? Corrur-t: Four of those writers ("lley! I didn't know you still had a col­arn dnad, for a kick-uff rate of approxi-umn!") I think I should've taken the mat<'ly 67 pnrcont. Ot could be more. advice O'Hourki> dispensed when it was This figure involved math, so somebody my turn to press adoringly against him double-check me on this.) And the ones and beg for words of wisdom for a blos­l<~l't standing -Barry and O'Rourke -soming humorist: "Go to dental school." arn µrinrn candidates for Charter I lmilth System commercials. Dave is on Mary Beth Ellis is a 1999 graduate of something like his ninth wife and is Saint Mary·s College. Her column is currently running around promoting a featured every other Tuesday. work of fiction that apparnntly involves The 1•iews expressed in this column an alligator. O'Hourke was a Vietnam-are those ofthe author and not 1zcces­nra radical who smoknd hashish and sarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Nike on the right path 
Niko is glad that Notrn Dame's "sweat­cooperation, human rights groups, univer­shop symposium" is raising awareness sities and non-governmental organiza• about the complex issues associated with tions. In fact, St. John's recently joined the global manufacturing and we only \\ish Global alliance, too -tho first university we were given an opportunity to partic­to do so. ipate. We know students and faculty are We know these solutions aren't perfect, concerned about the conditions under and we won't stop here. But the PI.A and which products bearing their university's the Global Alliance, along with our inter­logo were made. And we rely on close nal oversight and Price Waterhouse­scrutiny to show us where we need to Coopers' auditing of every factory every improve. yAar, is a good place to start. 
Jim Keady has said that he resigned At Nike we know we are on the right from bis position at St. John's because of path but we aren't kidding ourselves ­his conviction that, based on what he had there is still so much more to do. Still, the read of our labor practices, he could not steps we have taken are paying off for wear our products. At Nike we hope you workers and their communities. To quote will seek the truth and judge us by our two students from BYU following their actions, not just what you read or the ·crit­visit to various factories in Vietnam ­icisms of individuals. including ones produdng Nike, "If we 
Nike is making every effort to be trans­were citizens of Vietnam, there is no other parent so that people can best judge us by firm for which we would want to work." what we do. That is why Nike will begin to There is more to do and Nike is commit­disclose the factory locations whero uni­ted to seeing it through, To learn more . versity licensed goods are made as indi­about what we are doing, please visit our vidual universities say that is what they Web site at www.nikebiz.com. want. 
In addition to voluntary disclosure, Nike Simon Pestridge has joined groups like the FLA and the Manager of Labor Practices, Nike Inc. Global Alliance for Workers and October 8, 1999 Communities, which are partnerships of 
Find your compassion 
I just linished reading every word of gruesome scene just the same. This sort Mike Connolly's Irish Insight column in of behavior is penalized on the college the Oct. 11 Observer in which he trashes football field. because it is un-sportsman­Jim Sanson. I don't usually read all of a like, and maybe also because it is stupid. column like this; today's exception is the I, too, celebrate Miller's success. But I result of my belief that there would be an also share Sanson's sorrow. lt doesn't ounce of compassion somewhere before look like Connolly is capable of that. Once the end. Alas, there was not. The photo­he has experienced a little more of life, graph of Sanson's face above the same Connolly will also have failed miserably at column speaks volumes about the human something very important to him. factor in sports, and how painful failure is Perhaps, if he remembers writing today's for the one who fails. column, the experience will teach him a 
The column shows none of this humani­little empathy. I hope no one is there to ty. How many times does Connolly feel he roar in triumph over him when it hap­has to kick the already down Sanson? It pens. It is not the way human beings reminds me of those spectacles one occa­should treat one another. sionally sees on the football field, where a player who has just injured another Ursula Williams stands over the other with arms raised Director, Language Resource Center and muscles llexed in triumph. You can't October 11, 1999 hear the growling victory cry, but it's a 
Thankful for SMC pride 
As we wind into the final days of the Exper,ting angry rebukes, students gath­SMC Pride Week, I find myself pondering ered together instead to celebrate the upon the establishment of the celebration. pride they felt for Saint Mary's. Not only Of course we recognize it in honor of did those women instill a new sense of Marilou Eldred who became president pride on our campus, but they also three years ago. We recognize her as instilled a new sense of confidence that, beginning a new era of tradition at Saint as Saint Mary's women, we can face all Mary's which unites us together as a pre­situations with class and maturity. I am mier women's college. However, we also not trying to open any ancient wounds, recognize another event which united the but am merely recognizing the opinions r,ampus in a display of pride. some may have had towards Saint Mary's 
Wednesday marked the official Saint students. Mary's Pride Day and I couldn't help but As I reflect upon my years at Saint remember back to the first Pride Day Mary's, I can't help but rejoice with the three years ago. As most juniors and rest of my classmates as we celebrato seniors will remember, "Pride nay" bPgan during Pride Week. Pride Week docs in a peaceful response to 'The Lett11r." more than demonstrate the pride we have Mvselfinduded, I am sure most people do in Saint Marv's, but also the pride wo feel not remember who wrote it or most of in ourselves ·as we grow together academ­what the letter contained. However, ically, socially and spiritually. I am not everyone remembers the response it trying to open any ancient wounds, but evoked. am merely recognizing the opinions some 
I can't help but wonder what the two may have had towards Saint Mary's stu­women who wrote it are doing today. I dents. In writing this letter, I hope that wonder if they have reconsidered their instead of negative feelings. maybe pride decision to label Saint Mary's students as will be felt in each campus not only sepa­tho "great parasite of Notre Dame.'' I rately, but also collectively as the ND/SMC wonder if there's a possibility they now community. daim at least one Saint Mary's woman as a friend. Christine Draper 
Remembering back to that fateful letter, Junior, McCandless Hall I just wanted to extend my deepest appre­October 6, 1999 ciation to those women who wrote it. 

C 
page 14 Tuesday, October 12, I999 
CONCERT REVIEW 

Tom Petty treats crowd to his greatest hits 
By TIMOTHY COLLINS Scene Music Critic 

Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers were formed in Los Angdes in 1976. and since tiH'n the band has released nine studio albums. Most recently, the band released this vcar's Echo, which is hailed as some of the band's best work. The band has been touring since early summer tu support its new album, with a recent stop at Chicago's United Center on Oct. 7. The band emerged on its psychedelic stage to the turn, of ".fammin' Me," a song Petty co-wrote with Bob Dylan for the band's 1987 album Let Me Up (I've llad Enough). The quick, catchy song got the crowd excited and on its feet, and it set the stage for a memorable show. Petty continued to play songs primari­ly from his Greatest Hits album. A fan who only owned that album would have known 11 of the 22 songs on the set list. Petty is a great performer, and he kept thP crowd entertained between songs by introducing each song. For example, he remarked that most of the fans "weren't even born yet" before rip­ping into the 1978 classic "Listen To Her Heart." The new album only had three of its songs played, including the least memo­rable of the show; guitarist Mike Campbell's "I Don't Wanna Fight," a half-hearted attempt .at the teenage angst perfected by Nirvana. Petty knew the fans wanted to hear the classics and that was exactly what he delivered. The crowd had a chance to karaoke 

with "l Won't Back Down" and "You life on the stage, allowing the song to Don't Know How It Feels." reach a level it hadn't reached on "It's Good To Be King" achieved new Petty's 1994 solo album Wildflowers. 
"Don't Come Around Here No Morn" got rid of _the backup singers that plagued thr! album vPrsion, making tlw song sound rougher. and much better, than the original. And a solo Petty, with only his guitar, sang the lines "and I can't hold out forever, fwen walls rail down" from 1996's "Walls" with new meaning during the show's acoustic set. 
Tim band took a bow after "You Wreck Mc," and the crowd started the chant for an encore. 
The band took tlrn stage again and saved its best for last. "Free Fallin," the biggest hit of Petty's career, sent the crowd into an uproar. Petty could hard­ly be heard over the !'ans singing. "Honey Bee," the night"s loudest song. followed with Petty running around the stage like he was 25 years old again. 
The ban·d also covered Van Morrison's "Gloria" with Petty going into an improvisational rap, and although it wasn't as good as the origi­nal, Petty did one ol' his rock 'n' roll idols justice. The band ended tlw night with its classic "American Girl" from the Heartbreakers' 1976 self-titled debut. The band's oldest song of thf\ night was definitely the biggest hit with the crowd. 
Petty put on a great show and surely entertained the crowd throughout. After 23 years together, the band sounds like they are still having as much fun as ever with each other. 
They played for close to 2 1/2 hours and gave the crowd exactly what it wanted. Like his fellow 50-something rocker Bruce Springsteen, Petty is still running around and showing the ener­gy of a 20-year-old. 
ALBUM REVIEW 

Cornell's solo debut is 'ultramega ok' 
By EMMETT MALLOY 
Assistant Scene Editor 

I'm on a mission now," sings former Soundgarden frontman Chris Cornell on his solo debut, Euphoria Morning. However, after listening to the entire album, it's not exactly clear what that mission is. When Soundgarden unexpectedly broke up in 1997, the band was still in its prime, both commercially and criti­cally. And if there was any turmoil within the band. it certainly wasn't public knowledge. The usual creative differences were cited, but two years later, Cornell has emerged with 12 new songs that simply are not much different from those of his former band. 

Musically speaking, there is little here that might answer why Cornell felt the need to leave his old band behind. For the most part, the songs have the same turgid tempos, grim lyrics and creepy chords that marked most of Soundgarden's work, but lack the "crunch" and booming production values that made the band's sound so distinctive. 
With Euphoria Morning, Cornell doesn't try to reinvent himself as a singer-songwriter like Paul Westerberg did after the Replacements, nor does he try to rPvive the past of his former band. Instead, ho tries a little of' both, with mixed results. 
The most intriguing songs hnrn are the ones in which Cornell puts some distance between his new work and his old. 
For example, the most powerful track is the barest one. "Sweet Euphoria," in which Cornell accompa­nies himself on acoustic guitar. This simple arrangement delivers more power than any of the songs with the full band behind him. The acoustic tracks hint at what might have been if Cornell attempted a slightly different course than the onP hP followed in Soundgardcn. 
Cornell's weapon of choice seems tu be the apocalyptic ballad, but he's really running out of fresh material on this topic. The well-worn genre is rep­
resented by the dour album-closer "Steel Rain" and "Preaching the End of the World." 
The latter, as well as songs like "Flutter Girl," are peppered with vari­ous low-tech sonic effects, but most of these ideas are pushed way back in the mix. The album's first single, "Can't Change Me," is a strange waltz with a snaky Eastern-flavored guitar riff. But like much of this album, it is decent without being in any way memorable. 
Though heavier songs like "Pillow of Your Bones" and "Follow My Way" manage to hold their own, it's hard to think of thPm as any­thing other than demos for what could have been a solid Sound-garden album. 
Cornell's backing band Eleven is capable enough, but they simply don't dazzle the way Sound-garden did, nor are thry meant to do so. As unfair as it may be to Cornell to keep t.:omparing this album to the work of his previous band, it's nearly impossible not to compare, given the· similarity of the material. in fact, Kim Thayil, Ren Shepherd and Matt Cameron figure as prominently here with their absence as they have on any 

SoundgardPn album with their pres­ence. 
Maybe this is Cornell's main goal in going solo -to front a band that is not in danger of outshining him. 
Generally plodding with a few bright moments, Euphoria Morning is, to steal yet another title from Cornell's old band, ultramega OK. 


O
THE 
Tuesday, October 12, I 999 BSERVER page 15 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Blues icons reflect on human experience 
By TOM OGORZALEK 
\r~nt• ,\fosil Cririr 
DPPp down in the delta, where Urn bltws WPn' born. they ding the sad songs of' hard Limes, uf love lost, of the c>SsPnt.ial darkrwss and solitude at tlrn lll'art of human t>xist1n1ce. Tlw lif'e of' a hltws1111u1 is not s1111shi1w. lollip11ps and rain bows, but saclnnss, loss and a pain that can110t lw .-xplorPd without tlrn 
B.B. King 


music that defines it -the blues. 
In I.his age or fed-good pop with little or no substantive reflection on the actu­al human experience, there remain pil­lars of rnsistance to modern trends: Men continuf' lo play the blues after having dmw sci for decades. 
The greatest icons of the blur,s in post­Wor Id War II America are John Lne llook<!r and B.B. King, a pair who each have been playing for more than four dncudes, and whose latest offerings are glimpses of a genre that, more than any other. d(~fines the essence of the unheard and unheralded American. 
B.B. King's Greatest Hits is a line cat­alog ol' tlrn man's brilliant showmanship and technical and heartfelt brilliance on the electric blues guitar. llis monik<1r "The King ol' the Blues" is revealed immndiately i11 the first track. and thon ho goos on to why that has boen his deserved title. There is no doubt about his status as the best-known and most widely acclaimed bluesman on the planet. After growing up in Mississippi and finding his break into modern musicianship in Memphis, Tenn., King has kept the hits coming for decades. 
This greatest hits anthology includes livn tracks, including "Every Day I llave tlrn Blues." studio cuts like "The Thrill is Gone" and two bonus songs in which ho plays with Robert Cray and U2. 
King's merit is found in his great abil­ity to sing soulfully and sadly at times, wbile reserving the right to play equally pointed solos on the guitar while his ac.companiment keeps time and rhythm in the background. At times he diverges 
ALBUM REVIEWS 
}\merican feetball American feetball 
P@lyvinyl Recerds 
*** (out of five) 
By JOHN HUSTON 
Scene Music Criric 
Tho casiPst way Lo describe American Football is by using words such as "intricate," "clean," "bright," "prntly," "moody" and "pmo­tional." But somewlrnrn along the line, whilti listening to its stdl'-titled, first full-lrn1gth album, a handful of words can 110 longnr adequalnly dnscrilws the band any-
Fach song Prt<·ompasses a mood. Somdimes tht­rnoods 11vPn switd1 within a song likc a manic-d1,p1·nssiv1• t•x-girlf'ricnd ­somiil.inws undnrstanding and rPgret­1'111, othnr limns sad and depressed, IIH•11, all of' a sudden, mad and rPsnnL­f'ul. ThP11 it starts alt over again. More of'tnn than not. singnr/guitarist Mike Ki11s1\lla suunds likn l11: is the one reel­ing from a brokPn rPlationship. 
Tlw band doesn't overuse the classic indie-rnck "dn11ns. \rnss a.nd guitar" formula. It throws in trumpet. Wurlitzer organ and various percus­sion instruments to make the songs shinn. The trumpet adds a soft, almost jazz-like texturn to the music, while 
the Wurlitzer adds to undertones of the record. The songwriting on Foothall 's self-titled 
the upbeat 
American album is 
absolutely stunning. It sets thr, hand apart from the processed, uninterest­ing alternative music currently getting attention. American Football never gets heavy or particularly aggressive. They can be loud without being obnoxious, which is rare coming from a punk-minded genre like 
emo. 
111 o rn. 
Kinsella is a former 
11.·s nol pop music. It. member or Cap'n .Jazz, won't g1it stuck in your the pioneering Chicago fwad and you won't. find emo band from earlier yourstilf' l;umming it in this decade. After the LIH· showt•r. Jt i:-,, hoW!'V· band broke up. he went to Pr. plPasing Lo llw Par collegn at the University and prrsuasivt> to thP of Illinois while helping Iwart. his brotlwr and former 
Cap'n .Jazz bandmate Tim 
start the group Joan of Arc, who havci amassed a large follow­ing in th<' 01110 scene. 
AmNican Football was started as a sid(<-projcct two-and-a-half years ago. The band rarPly plays live, but still, when it released its threP-song CD EP last fall, th(l initial pressing sold out immediately. The underground buzz surrounding the band was baf'fl ing, even to the band members. But it is well-deserved, and American Football adds another notch to the Kinsella Brolhcrs' collective belt of critically acclaimed and successful bands. This effort solidifies their status as the new underground cult-heroes. 
into a groove that is almost too smooth, but this is merely a way of making the blues compatible wiih rnodnrn music. 
Most importantly, the soul of the genre is still well-preserved. King, a8 a showman, introduced a new generation of young men and women to the blues, and serves as an invaluable ambas­sador. "Music is love, and my love is music. in perfect harmony." he sings in "I Like to Live the Love." It isn't tough to believe. 
John Lee Hooker has heen around even longer than King, and his life is rcrnalod like a book in the lines that traverse his weathered visage. His lil'e took him from Mississippi to Detroit, and l'inally to Chicago, home uf tlrn g:rPatPst blues community in America. llis music, however, is even morn widelv traveled, incorporating African rhythms and forms, while his voice is morn of a spoken word than the smooth incanta­tions heard from King. 
Hooker's versatility is evident on his The Best of Friends. as he collaborates with such diverse musicians as Eric Clapton ("Boogie Chillen"), Van Morrison ("I Cover the Waterfront") and Ben Harpnr ("Burnin' Hell"}. Hooker is the quintessential bluesman -he uses his music to move beyond the sadness and the poverty that he has known. 
Although these men' have been lucky enough tu enjoy commercial success, it is not this brand of success that defines their music. Rather, the resonance of their music and its coincidence with the depth and breadth of joy and pain in human life make them great. It makes 

-
The Best ef friends 
Virgin Recerds 
them worthy of the greatest respect and admiration, for they truly lived and learned. And that which they under­stood is revealed in their music. All that is necessary is to listen. 
Listen to the musings of T-Bone and Mighty K-Mac on the Notre Dame Blues Experiment, WSND 88.9 FM, Thursday nights from 10 p.m. to midnight. 
Chemical Brethers Surrender 
Astralwerks Recerds 
**** (out of five) 

By GEORGETTE LEONARD 
Scene Music Critic 
Try to detect a melody under the familiar gulping noises of dance pop -to the devoted rock fan, there's not much heart benr,ath the surface. It's easy to dismiss an entire CD involving synthesizers, samples and drum machines as plas­tic noise. But the 
Chemical Brothers 1997 
"Music:Hesponse" and 
rnl,rnse Dig Your Own "Orange Wf\dge.'' 
Hole transformed dance The best thing about music into a rer:ogniwd Surrender is that the art. The Brothers thrust· samples are subtle. They electronica into the don't stick out and spotlight, making Dig aren't immediately rec­.Your Own Hole one of ognizable. Every sound the best CDs of the is interwoven and tex­
l9fJOs according to SPIN magazine, and opening the floodgates for a slew of electronic artists liko Prodigy and Fat Boy Slim. 
The Chemical Brothers -Tom Howlands and Ed Simons, two guys wbo look like they could be your dorm roommates with a great record collection -started spinning in 1991, exploding on London's under­ground dub scene. Since Dig Your Own llole, they have released a few El's, but Surrender is their official follow-up album. 
The Technicolor sleeve personifies the music on this CD -vibrant, soul­ful and alivf'. The heavy breakbeats of Dig are chucked in favor of more 
melodic samples on this production. Sure, the CD is largely rave-friendly 
.. 
as opposed to radio-friendly, but it crosses from techno to trip-hop to rock and back. 
The Brothers' influences are var­ied, ranging from Detroit techno pio­neers Kevin Saunderson and Juan Atkins to New Order's Bernard Sumner, who co-wrote "Out of Control." They also pull elements of 
German proto-techno _,.. 
group Kral'twerk in 
tured, and the spend is 
at a breakneck pacr,. 
The Brothers do some really pro­gressive stuff by melding various rhythms. samplos and guest vocalists like llopo Sandoval of Mazzy Star and Noel Gallagher of Oasis. Tim collabo­ration with Gallagher on "Let Fornver Be" is getting some radio exposure a:nd is perhaps the finest moment on the CD. 
The Chemical Brothers don't forget that this is a fun CIJ. and every cut is danceable. Rut Smrender is more than just a good time -it's electroni­ca paying respect to rock. Very few artists could pull that off as well as the Brothers. 
.\ 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, October 12, 1999 
GYMNASTICS 

Roethlisberger, Wilson lead U.S. to world finals 
exercises. Stephen McCain
Associated Press 

scored an 8.812, and Chris Young an 8.8h2 while his TIANJIN, China parents shouted encourage-In the end, the U.S. team's 
ment from the stands. medal hopes rested on the "It wasn't th!"' best way to muscled shoulders of John start," Roethlisberger said of 
Roethlisberger. the Americans. 
Hut he didn't rnalizA it. But they regrouped imme-
Eyes shut, facing away from diately on the pommel horse, 
his teammates, led by a 9.650 from 
Roethlisbergl:'f had been else­Roethlisberger, a 9.612 from where, trying to imagine 
Yewki Tomita and a 9.487 himself back home in his 
from Blaine Wilson -the 
gym, running through his reigning and four-time routine. national champion. 
Only when his feet hit the The tattooed, pierced 25­

mat did he ye a r -o I d 
deal with Wilson, who
"This team has such a
reality. The wears a sil­four-time big heart." ver tongue
-national stud, was the -·· champion's most consis-
Yewki Tomita 
last-ditch 

tent U.S. 
effort U.S. gymnastics coach 
gymnast. His Monday on 
the high 
bar had vaulted his team into 
the World Gymnastics 
Championships final. 
It wac;; the second time in two days that U.S. medal hopes rested on the last rou­tine. Vanessa Atler clinched the women's team's place in the medal round with a 9.762 Sunday in the floor exercises. The finals for both teams are Tuesday. 
Roethlisberger's 9.525 on the bar capped a remarkable comeback for the 29-year-old from Falcon Heights, Minn. He underwent reconstructive knee surgery last year, and

--was sidelined for months before recovering and mak­ing the team for the champi­onships in Tianjin. The U.S. men, whose last team medal -a bronze ­came in 1979, were shaky in their first event, the floor 
57.048 points 
placed him sixth among the 36 gymnasts who qualified for the individ­ual all-around competition. Tomita. whose father is a team c~ach, wa.s 35th. 
The team was lying fifth going into the high bar, its final event. With Russia and Belarus yet to come, they needed a strong finish to clinch a place in the medal round six. But again, they started poorly. Sean Townsend fell and Tomita lost his grip, almost coming off, l"or scores of 8.762 and 
8.450 respectively. 
Young and Wilson did bet­ter, stopping the slide with scores of 9.550 and 9.562. Wilson's routine included two circles of the bar hanging on with just one hand, per­formed despite an injured, taped-up shoulder. 
But it wasn't enough. With just Hoethlisberger left, the team was still seventh. 
Afterward, Roethlisberger said he hadn't been aware that the team was that close to not making the cut. He'd been standing apart from the team, running through his routine in his head. 
"I was psyching myself up, trying to relax," he said. "You've got to dig down deep, you've got to figure out what you're made of and get up there and try to pull ofTa rou­tine." 
Although Roethlisbcrger took a long time tightening up · his wrist straps before climb­ing onto the bar, his routine seemed to be over in a flash. 
When the St'.'t!!'Pboard lit up 9.525, for a team score of 
224.594 and a place in the final, th11 tl'am Nuptcd with high-fives and shouts of "Yeah!" Roethlisberger turned to U.S. coaches in the stands and pumped his fists into the air. 
"That was just awesome," said the ekler Tomita. "This team 11as· such a big heart. Everyone chipped in, that's what turned it around." 
But getting a medal in the final will be tough. Ahead of the sixth-placed U.S. team in qualifying were South Korea, with 225.319 points, Japan with 226.382, Belarus with 
226.557 
and Olympic cham­pion Russia in second with 

227.083. 
China, the three-time defending champion and runaway qualifying leader with 230.546 points, looked untouchable. 


"You're not going to beat them here," Wilson said. "They're home, definitely on their own turf, and they're real good." 

Blaine Wilson of the U.S. gymnastics team vaulted to fifth place in the individual standings Monday in the 34th World Artistic Gymnastic Championships. The U.S. qualified for the finals behind the leadership of Wilson and John Roethlisberger. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS · 
Free One Bedroom Apartment in HOMES CLOSE TO CAMPUS FOR SALE BUYING and SELLING N D FOOT-I theory is horrible Historic Home 1.5 miles from http:/fmmmrentals.homepage.com/ · N.D. FOOTBALL TIX BALL TICKETS. 
NOTICES Campus. 232-2595 CALL 271-9412 GREAT PRICES. CALL 289-8048 CHILD CARE OPENINGS IN MY 
A family with three children seeks  
THE COPY SHOP  fun,energelic,outstanding student  
LaFortune Student Genter  or graduate to live in charming  
PHONE 631-COPY  apartment for FREE in exchange  
www.CopyShopND.com  for mutually agreed upon babysit- 
Store Hours  ting  
Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight  responsibilities that include some  
Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm  evenings,overnighls,as well as trav- 
Sar: Noon-6:00pm  el.Send cover letter.resume and ref- 
Sun: Noon-Midnight  erences to Nanny Search,P.O.Box  
652,Notre Dame.IN 46556.  
LOST & FOUND  Two ND 1unior women have College  
Park I lease for 2000-2001 and are  
Set of keys lost outside  seeking two apartment mates.For  
stadium Saturday. If found  more information contact x0931 or  
please call Drew at 247-1293  x4071.  

Set of keys lost outside stadium Saturday. 11 found The Early Childhood Development please call Drew at 247-1293 Center at Notre Dame, locted at 
18680 Bulla Road.is looking for col­.............Found............. Jege students to work part time or Pair of silver earrings, in The full time during Fall break week, Observer office_ 10118·22/99. If you are interested in Contact Laura at 1-4541. more information,please contact 
..................... ,.,_ Thayer Kramer.Program Director.at 
631-3344 for more information.A 
great way to earn extra money 
while playing with and assisting 
WANTED 

young children. 
Loving ND-SMC couple wishes to THE UNIVERSITY CLUB on ND adopt. Will provide a lifetime of campus is looking for dependable laughter,love,devotion and opportu-bus help. Must be able to work Fri. nities. & Sat. evenings. Meals provided. 
Apply within. 800-484-4699 code 0019 
FOR RENT
Browse icpt.com tor Springbreak "2000''. ALL destinations offered.Trip Participants,Student ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE Orgs & Campus Sales Reps want-HOME FOR ed.Fabulous parties.hotels & prices. ND-SMC EVENTS. 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. Call Inter-Campus 800-327-6013 243-0658. 
HOME. 

THAT PRETTY PLACE, FOR SALE FOR SALE NEAR ND. 
Bed and Breakfast Inn has space N.D. FOOTBALL TIX N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS 233-2704. 
• available for football/parent wknds. CALL 271-9412 CALL 271-9412 
5 Rooms with private baths, $80-Does anybody else's roommate get $115. Middlebury, 30 miles from Phone Cards, 669 min/$20 SPRING BREAK 2000 serious head injuries, major hand campus. Toll Road Exit #107, 1-243-9361 or 258-4805 ''THE MILLENIUM" trauma. and TB all in one year? 800-418-9487. A NEW DECADE. ..NCE IN TRAV-
Beautiful brass bed,queen size.with EL.FREE TRIPS,FREE 005 Lyons ­5/6 BDRM HOMES."00-01YR 272-orthopedic mattress set and deluxe MEALS!JAMAICA,CANCUN.FLORI Mom loves you. 6551 frame.New.never used.still in plas-DA,BARBADOS,BAHAMAS.SIGN 
tic.$235 219-862-2082 UP BY NOV. 5 FOR 2 FREE TRIPS hey erin, 6BDRM$150 _l?erson.272-6306 AND FREE MEALS! 
Sublet: Roomy one bedroom Campus View apartment: $385.00 monthly. Call Stacy at Campus View or John Hill at 683-5699 days; 616/782-3314. 
ENTIRE HOME FOR FOOTBALL WEEKENDS 2773097 
NICE FURNISHED HOMES FOR NOW OR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 
HOUSES HOUSES HOUSES 
DOMUS PROPERTIES HAVE AVAILABLE 5,6,7,8 & 10-BDRM HOUSES FOR THE 
'00-01 SCHOOL YEAR ONLY 15 LEFT. CALL 
274-1501 OR 234-2436, ASK FOR KRAMER FOR SHOWING. 
FOR SALE 
Spring Break Specials!Bahamas Party Cruise 5 Days $279! Includes Meals! Awesome Beaches,Nightlile!Cancun & Jamaica 7 Nights From $399! Florida 129!springbreaktravel.com 
1-800-678-6386 
1800-426~16~-whats up kiddo? are you reading MAC 520 Powerbook-Y2K compli-WWW.SUNSPLASHTOURS.COM this? you better be! see you soon. ant-$350. Stylewriter printer $75. i may be there when you read it. Both seldom used. 287-7928 WANTED:USCTIX 
247-1659 Emily is a flirt. 

85 OLDS CUTLASS GOOD LOCAL  For SALE 2 tixs all games 272­ **************••···••11••········  
TRANSPORTATION  6306  Happy Birthday to you,  
$750OBO  Happy Birthday to you,  
675-9735  ·  USC GA Tickets For Sale (617)868­ Happy Birthday dear Kristy,  
2071  Happy Birthday to you.  
TICKETS  USC Ticket Needed!'! I need a GA ticket for my gradfa­!her. Please call Dal(e al X 3636  HAPPY 21st KRISTY BAUGHMAN!!!!!.................................., ...  
WANTED NOTRE DAME FOOT­ 
BALL TICKETS  NEED 2 TIX FOR use.  craze,  
271-1526  CALL MARY 219-257-1141.  get me some mike 1rom Juke  
NEED 10 use TIX for family 4 1/2 minutes, baby. Will pay top dollar. Call Matt at 219 273-2802. I'll be absent. 


SELL & BUY GA FOOTBALL TICK­ETS 277-6619 
FOR SALE ASUtix. FACE VALUE AM -232-2378 PM -288-2726 
ND football I ix tor sale. AM -232-2378 PM -288-2726 
I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME GAMES.2726551 
thiS  
PERSONAL  
IS  
High-Speed Copies,  
Color Copies, Binding,  so  
Fax Service, R;?;sum~s.  
Business Cards, Laminating,  MUCH  
& a whole lot more  
at  FUN  
THE COPY SHOP  
LaFortune Student Center  what time is it?  
Phone 631-COPY  
Free Pick-Up & Delivery!  mammy  


r-------------_.....______________..,.____......__........._________ 
Tuesday,'October 12, J999 The Observer . SPORTS page I 7 
=----======-==--=--==---==-==-=--=-========================================================================================= 
Vball 
continued frbm page 28 
junior seller D!lnise Boylan contributed 38 assists. 
The Irish allowed three ll utgiirs players to finish with douhlP f1gurns in kills, led by Lola Opadiran's 14 kills. llownvnr, Notre Dame outhit tlw Scarll't Knights .:358 to .13:i. 
"WI' havn been working on not allowing morn than one point al a tinw f'or the other tnam," said Coughlin. "Our 
defense really stepped it up this weekend." 
On Sunday, the Irish contin­ued their winning ways with another convincing victory. 
Seton Hall was 110 match, as Notre Dame prevailed in three games 15-4, 15-6, and 15-5. The loss dropped the Pirates record to 10-8 overall, and gave them their third confer­ence loss in four ma.tchos. 
The Irish were led offensive­ly by Girton in this match. The junior outside hitter tallied a match-high 19 kills and .467 hitting percentage, 
Leffers again was a force offensively, adding 10 kills for the Irish, while co-captain Boylan contributed 39 assists. 
Notre Dame finished with a team hitting percentage of .421, while allowing the Seton Hall only a team hitting per­centage of .075. 
Paige Ellcrton finished with the best offensive effort for the Pirates, totaling eight kills in the match. 
"It is definitely a goal of ours to continue to play at tho same level and rnwer dropping down to maybe a !AssAr opponents level," said Coughlin, "We want to keep it at a high inten­sity, especia)ly in the Big East." 

Notre·Dame vs. Seton Hall Sunday, Oct. 1 o 
Flifflt.YolJeyball 
South Orange, N.J. 
Game 1: ND 15, SHU 4 
Game 2; ND 15, SHU 6 
Game 3,: ND 15, SHU 5 
.... 
• 


page 18 

The Observer . SPORTS T ucsday, October 12, 1999 
NHL 

Legwand's first career goal lifts Predators past Maple Leafs 
Associated Press 
·1·0RONTO 
Rookie David Legwand broke 
a Uc with his first NHL goal with 
l :OJ left in the third period as 
the Nashville Predators beat the 
Toronto Maple Leafs 4-2 
Monday night. . 
The loss came on the same 
day the Maple Leafs learned 
that team captain Mats Sundin 
has a broken right ankle an<l 
will be out for six weeks. 
Legwand's goal broke a 2-2 Uc and Robert VaUcevk added an insurance goal wtth 4S sec­onds left to help the Predators win their first game of the sea­son. 
Vitali Yachmcnev, who also had an assist, and Drake Berehowsky also scored for Nashville (1-2-1-0). Jonas Hoglund and Mike Johnson scored for Toronto (3-2-0-0). 
Sundin was injured during Saturday's 4-3 loss in Ottawa when he took a shot off the ankle. It was originally thought to be just a bruise, but X-rays on Monday revealed an undis­placed fracture. 
The news of Sundin's injury appeared to leave the Maple Leafs flat for their game Monday. 
Johnson opened the scoring at 
3:55 of the second period on a power play, beating Mike Dunham. 
Berehowsky, a Maple Leafs draft choice, tied the game with his first of the season, also on a power play, at 7 :05 of the third. Johnson was serving a double­minor for high-sticking. 

Tho Predators took the lead 
on Yachmenev's first of the sea­
son when he beat Glenn Healy 
at 9:15. Hoglund tied the game 
with his fourth. at 17:31. when 
he picked up a l.oose puck off 
Todd Warriner's shot 
Toronto outshot Nashville :i9­
25, including 27-12 over the 
first two periods. 
Coyotes 2, Sabres 2 
Travis Green scored an unas­sisted goal for the Phoenix Coyotes wtth 4.6 seconds left in regulation to earn a 2-2 tie wUh the winless Buffalo Sabres on Monday night. 
Michal Grosek had sent Buffalo ahead 2-1 in the third period, but Green's shot from an impossibly low angle deflected off Buffalo defenseman Alexei Zhitnik's skate and wobbled underneath Sabres goaltender Dominik Hasek. 
Phoenix defonscman Deron Quint hit the post 58 seconds into ovnrtimP for the best chance to win. lt was the second straight tie for Buffalo (0-2-2), which lost to Dallas in the Stanley 
Cup finals last season and is off to its worst start since going 0-4-3 in 1990. 
Hasek made 32 saves, includ­ing three in overtime. Hasek was pulled by coach Lindy Ruff in the second period Saturday after allowing the expansion Atlanta Thrashers four goals in an eventual 5-5 tie. 
Grosek's goal at 3:39 of the third snapped a 1-1 tie. Grosek took a pass from Brown in the slot and fired a low 25-footer 
underneath Coyotes goalie Bob 
Essensa, playing in his first 
game since he signed with 
Phoenix as a free agent Sept. 5. 
Essonsa made 22 saves. includ­
ing four in OT. 
Buffalo was outshot 13-5 in 
the first period. but took a 1-0 
lead with a goal on its third 
shot. 
Defens·eman Jason Woolley passed out of the Sabres' zone to streaking GeoIT Sanderson at center ice. Sanderson wheeled in the zone and passed to Brian Holzinger, who one-timed the puck to Stu Barnes for the tap­in at 14:41. 
Hasek snapped his glove out to rob Ji,:evor Letovvski with 
3:21 left in the first period, smothering a two-on-one break. 
Greg Adams tied the game with 15.9 seconds left in the second period, tucking Rick Tocchet's rebound under the crossbar. 
Phoenix (2-1-2) ended a tough road trip that had them play three games in four nights. 
Mighty Ducks 5, Sharks 3 
Fredrik Olausson and Oleg Tverdovsky scored 53 seconds apart in the final minute of the first period during two-man advantages as the Anaheim Mighty Ducks beat the San Jose Sharks 5-3 Monday. · 
Tverdovsky, Marty Mclnnis and Steve Rucchin each had a goal and an assist, Matt Cullen had a goal and Teemu Selanne had three assists for the Ducks, who survived a favorable video review after San Jose's Ron Sutter scored what appeared to be the tying goal with 3 l/2 min­utes left in the second period. 
After totaling only three goals in their first three games ­including an empty-netter -the Ducks scored their first four goals in an 8:06 span to grab a 4-1 lead and chase Mike Vernon to the bench just 2:40 after the first intermission. 
Mcinnis capped the barrage with his first goal of the season, using defonseman Andy Sutton as a screen and beating Vernon high to the stick side from just inside the bhw line with Anaheim's 12th shot. 
Steve Shields replaced Vernon and stopped all 25 shots he faced, while his teammates scored twice in a thret>-minute span to slice the deficit to 4-3 with 6:31 left in the second. Vincent Damphousse beat Guy Hebert with a wraparound and Alex Korolyuk skated around two defenders before stuffing the puck inside the right post. A giveaway in the Anaheim end by defensema"n Pavel Trnka led to Korolyuk's second goal of the contest. 
After spotting San Jose the early lead on Korolyuk's sharp­angle wrist shot through Hebert's pads at 13:33 of the opening period, the Ducks tied the score just 61 seconds later on Cullen's first goal of the sea­son. 
Vernon stopped Selanne at the edge of' the crease, but was upended bv teammate Bob Rouse as the Sharks' defense­man tried to block the shot. Selanne retrieved the puck behind the net and Cullen con­verted the pass from l O feet out while Vernon was scrambling back to his feet. 

Tuesday October 12, 1999 7:30p.m. 
Liffle Theatre For ticket information contact the Saint Mary's College Box Office 
284-4626 



T11inking of The London Program for Fall 2000 or Spring 2001? 
Remember, you must return your completed application to the Program office (I 03 0 'Shaughnessy) 
You are strongly encouraged to turn in your completed application by 
4:30 pm on Friday, October 15, 1999 
Applications will be accepted until 4:30 p,n on Monday, October 25, 1999 
Tuesday, October 12, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
NFL 
San Francisco's Young expected to IDiss upcoDling ga.IDe 
-

to clear him to play and coach They're taking their time. Associated Press Steve Mariucci said Monday They're trying to make sure that Young probably will miss that when they say yes, it's a 
SANTA Cl.AHA, Calif. 

his third straight game this go."
suwe Young's concussion is week. Mariucci reiterated that even 
morn irnrious than originally "Evidently, they don't feel if Young eventually receives thought and as much as the this is the appropriate time to medical clearance, the team San Francisco 49ers quarter­let him start banging around," may continue to hold him out 
back wants to play. thc~re·s no 
Mariucci said. "I know we're for an indefinite period just to wiling wlwn or ir his doctors all being very conservative and make sure he':; all right. 
will let him. 
they are too because of the fre­Young made clear he's anx­So far, they've been reluctant quency of the concussions. ious to get back on the field but 

Your accomplishments in school have There's more. We offer a variety of everything to do with talent and deter­benefits and a strong work-life balance mination. At CIGNA, we invite you to culrure. That's .11robably why we con­apply those same qualities at one of tinue to earn high marks from some of the top global employee benefits and America's "best places to work" surveys. financial services companies. 
Stop by our upcoming information We're looking for bright, career-minded session and learn more about CIGNA's undergrads and graduates from all "Business of Caring" brand. major fields of concentration to enjoy ample challenges and rewards. We 
Are You the One?
focus on developing our future leaders from the start with skills, support and Date: October 13, 1999 challenging opportunities. So, you can Time: 6:00 pm -8:00 pm explore variom jobs, areas of interest, 
Place: Stadium Room, 
and make key contributions right away 
University Club 
while charting your own career. 
CIGNA Visit III an the Web: www.cigna.<om/workingf,..,11,ge 
we·re an equal oppor1un11y employer, M!F, ON. ··c1GNA~retorit lo CIGNA Cofpor&tion and/or O11e or m0re of r1s subs.1d_ianes Mot: employees are empl1Jyeo u., su!':.:!.;!::ries of ClG~.;. ".:.lfpi)rat1on, whrch provide msurance and related products. 
conceded he's having difliculty persuading his doctors. 
"I want to play," he said. "I don't want to watch and I've got to get cleared. That's a process that the doctor is going to go through. He's the one that has to clear me and I've got to figure out how to do that. 
Young, who turned 38 Monday, sustained his fourth concussion in three year:; when he was leveled Sept. 27 by blitzing Arizona cornerback Aeneas Williams. 
Though the 49ers initially described the concussion as mild, Young was knocked out for several seconds by the force of the blow. Concussions accompanied by unconscious­ness are almost always consid­ered severe. 
"The fact that he was knocked out may be a little dif­ferent than what he's had in the past," Mariucci said. "We think he's going to play and hopefully he will soon, but until he's cleared, we'll continue to rest him." 
However, there are no plans for Young to be evaluated by his neurologist until Wednesday, making it highly likely that Jeff Garcia will get the bulk of the practice reps for Sunday's game against Carolina. 
Garcia believed Young would be back by now but that hasn't happened. 
"I think if it continues into this week, then it does become a situation where it is more of a long-term thing than what everybody assumed would be a one or two week situation," he said. "I think if it goes into this week, then I think we're look­ing at potentially a change in the future but it's hard to say." 


Meanwhile, Young's agent, Leigh Steinberg, rai:;ed the possibility that Young may have been susceptible to a more serious concussion because of' the pounding he took against New Orleans the week before the knockout blow in Arizona. 
In the Sept. 19 game against the Saints, Young endured a sustained pounding, absorbing 21 hits, including five sacks and a ferocious helmet-to-hel­met blow from Chris Hewitt. 
"I do think think there's a cumulative effect with those games back-to-back," Steinberg said. ''I think he got hit much harder against New Orleans and then the hit in Arizona, those things are caus­ing him some problems. He's :;till feeling the effect:;." 
Last Wednesday, Young admitted he was still bothered by post-concussion symptoms such as headaches, grogginess and fatigue. 
Young's neurologist, Stanford's Dr. Gary Steinberg, who is not related to the agent, has made no recommendation yet on whether Young should retire. Concussions. especially if they're bunched together, can have long-term health repercussions, including pre­mature senility and other brain dysfunction. 
"Steve still hopefully can play. He's still got that compet­itive fire," Leigh Steinberg said. 
..­
Tuesday, October 12, 1999

The Observer . SPORTS
-
page 20 
NFL 

Jaguars beat Jets, improve to 4-1 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. 
The student, Tom Coughlin, finally beat the teacher, Bill Parcells. lt wasn't pretty. 
In a snoozer of a Monday night game, Coughlin's Jacksonville Jaguars downed Parcells' New York Jets 16-6. It was the first time Coughlin, who was an assistant under Parcells with the Giants and credits the current Jets coach with boosting his career, defeated his mentor in four NPL tries, including two play­off games. 
The Jaguars, whose vastly 
upgraded defense has allowed 
just 52 points, never let New 
York (1-4) get going. Not that 
Jacksonville (4-1 J did much 
offensively, either. 
It didn't matter with t11e way 
Tony Brackens, Carnell Lake 
and the Jaguars' defenders 
were performing. Not even an 
eight-minute delay to repair a 
tear in the artificial turf ­
which is in its final year at 
Giants Stadium -bothered 
them. 
For the third time this sea­
son, the Jaguars, who had four 
sacks. held an opponent with­
out a touchdown. And in 
reversing their playoff loss to 
New York in January, the Jags 
handed the Jets their fourth 
loss, as many as they had in all 
of 1998. New York has only 
one victory and, already, dim 
prospects for making the post­
season. 
Jacksonville, meanwhile, 
appears to have a playoff-cal­
iber defense to go with what 
normally is a high-powered ­
but lately has been a sputter­
ing -attack. On the Jets' last 
real chance, Kevin Hardy 
stopped Curtis Martin for no 
gain on fourth-and-1 at the 
New York 45. 
In all, the Jets gained 226 
yards, 51 coming on the last, desperation drive. 

Mike Hollis kicked three field goals and James Stewart had a 3-yard TD run for all the Jacksonville points. John Hall made two field goals for New York. 
Jacksonville showed no signs of its recent offensive struggles on its first possession, march­ing 61 yards on 13 plays to Stewart's scoring run. Stewart, playing for injured starter Fred Taylor (hamstring) was involved in eight of the plays on the drive. 
That was it early for either team as the punters took cen­ter stage. Tom Tupa sent a 54­yarder that was downed on the Jacksonville 1. So Bryan Barker returned the favor with a team record 83-yarder. 
The Jets reached Jacksonville territory on two straight series, but their inability to adequately protect quarterback Rick Mirer kept stymying drives. When Mirer's pass to Quinn Early deflected off the receiver's hands and then off teammate Keyshawn Johnson's to safety Blaine McElmurry for his first NFL interception. the Jaguars took over at their 46. 
A 33-yard completion to Keenan Mccardell on which he turned around cornerback Aaron Glenn set up Hollis' 32­yard field goal for a 10-0 lead. 
But the Jets responded thanks to a 43-yard kickoff return to midfield by Dwight Stone. Mirer got enough time to find Johnson for 16 yards before the drive stalled and Hall made a 33-yard field goal. 
Hollis' 44-yarder, set up by Brunell's 31-yard third-down completion to Reggie Barlow, opened the second half. Hall hit from 42 with 8:53 left, and when the Jets defense stopped the Jaguars twice more, well, so what? New York's injury­riddled offense couldn't go anywhere. 


ATE YOUR 
FUTURE 
MAKE AN APPOINTMENT TO MEET WITH OLD KENT 
Old Kent Financial Corporation wants to help you create your future with a challenging and rewarding career opportunity. 
By delivering the best banking products and providing customers with the service they deserve, Old Kent has grown into a $18 billion regional financial services provider whose mosl importanl asset is its people. We'd like to talk to you about your opportunity to become one of those people. 
We'll be on your campus on the folJowing; 
Date: November 5, 1999 Time: Interviews scheduled throughout the day Location: Career Placement Office 
Make an appointment with your Career Placement Office today to meet with us. Find out how you can have an impact at Old Kent and how we can help you create your future. 
To learn more about our rich history, strong present and bright future, visit us on-line at www.oldkent.com. 
OLDl(ENT 
Equal Opportunity Employer <!) Old Kent Bank 1999 
AMERICAN LEAGUE CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES 
O'Neill out for ALCS with injury 
Associated Pres• 
NEW YORK 

With the start of the AL championship series just two days away, the New York Yankees learned Monday that right fielder Paul O'Neill has a fractured rib and might not play against Boston. 
O'Neill was injured Oct. 2 when he crashed into a low fence chasing a foul ball at Tampa Bay, then went 1-for-4 in each of the first two games of the AL playoffs against Texas. 
Yankees manager Joe Torre benched him for the clincher, convinced the injury was ham­pering O'Neill. The team sent the 36-year-old outfielder to Columbia-Presbyterian 
Medical Center on Monday for 
new X-rays and an MRI, which 
showed a small fracture of the 
10th rib on his right side. 
"Sometimes, I guess, it shows 
up later," O'Neill said in the 
players' parking lot outside 
Yankee Stadium after returning 
from the hospital. 
Rosters for the championship 
series must be set by 10 a.m. 
EDT Wednesday, and the 
Yankees won't make any deci­
sions until then, general man­
ager Brian Cashman said. 
O'Neill, who hasn't played 
since Thursday, intended to 
take batting practice Tuesday 
along with running and outfield 
drills. 
''I'll go out and see if it's pos­
sible to play," he said. 
O'Neill, who hit .285 this sea­
son with 19 homers and 11Os 
RBIs, is an intense competitor 
who plays through pain. In 
1996, he hobbled on a torn 
hamstring for much of the sea­
son. 
"I think Joe Torre and the 
medical staff will be able to see 
how debilitating it's going to 
~ 0 

Graduating college seniors are invited to apply for the 27th annual Pulliam Journalism Fellowships. We will grant 10-week summer internships to 20 journalism or liberal arts majors in the August 1999-June 2000 graduating 
1ciasses. 
Previous internship or part-time experience at a newspaper is desired, or other demonstration of writing and reporting ability. Those who go through the Fellowships often find new professional opportunities opening up at other newspapers during and after the program. Wmners will receive a $5,500 stipend and will work at either The Indianapolis Star or The Arizona Republic. Opportunities for online training are available, along with reporting experience at our major metropolitan daily newspapers. 
Early-admissions application postmark deadline is Nov. 15, 1999. By Dec. 15, 1999, up to five early-admissions winners will be notified. All other entries must be postmarked by March l, 2000, and wilJ be consid­ered with remaining early-admissions applicants. Successful applicants will be notified on or before Apri] l, 2000, and will be asked to respond immediately with a letter of intent, at which time one-third of the cash grant will be mailed to the Fellow. 
To request an application packet, visit our Web site, e-mail us or write: Russell B. Pulliam Pulliam Fellowships Director Indianapolis Newspapers 

W.:h ,11.:: \\\\\\,st.m1,v,,,1,;,,111/p1f P.O. Box 145 E-mail: p~l11,un(a, .,rp<.',,,.,·om 
Indianapolis, IN 46206-0145 
be," Cashman said, adding the decision would be based on how O'Neill works out. 
O'Neill admitted the injury 
was bothering him. "It's just there," he said. If O'Neill can't play for the 
start of the best-of-7 series Wednesday night, the Yankees probably will activate Shane Spencer, who wasn't on the ros­ter for the first-round sweep of Texas. O'Neill's teammates still hope he'll be able to play. 
"With him in there. we have a hitter capable of producing a lot of runs," Darryl Strawberry said. 
To open a spot if O'Neill is questionable, New York proba­bly would cut either Clay Bellinger, used mostly as a pinch runner, or pitcher IIideki lrabu, who didn't pitch against the Rangers. 
A day after arriving home from Texas, the Yankees were given the day off Monday. 
Still, a few players showed up at Yankee Stadium, including Strawberry, probable Game 1 starter Orlando ''El Duque" Hernandez and closer Mariano Rivera. 
Rivera ran wind sprints in the outfield as a bright sun beat down on the nearly empty ball­park. 
"I don't want to take too much time off," he said. "I want to be strong and sharp." 
Before the Red Sox beat the Indians 12-8 Monday night in the decisive fifth game of their first-round playoff, the Yankees said they were just happy the other series went the maxi­mum. 
'Tm hoping for a 21-inning game tonight," Cashman said, 'Tm hoping for an extra-inning, rain-delayed slugfest." 
The defending World Series champions, seeking their third title in four seasons and 25th 
0 U 

Pulliam Journalism Fellowships 
overall, project an aura of supe­riority, that they're above it all. And who can blame them'? 
They've won 10 straight post­season games. 
"We just have to keep the focus on what we do." Strawberry said. 
New York was just 4-8 against Boston, including three straight losses at Yankee Stadium from Sept. 10-12 that cut its AL East to 3 1/2 games. The only other teams to win their season series against the Yankees were Anaheim and Kansas City. 
Pedro Martinez, Boston's 
Game 5 hero, is likely to start 
the third game of thfl series 
against New York and be avail· 
able to start a seventh game, if 
necessary. 
"It doesn't make a differ­
ence," Rivera said, asked if he'd 
rather play Boston or 
Cleveland. 
This will be the first time the 
Yankees and their traditional 
rival have met in postseason 
play. 
New York's win at Fenway 
Park in the l 978 tiebreaker for 
the AL East is considered a reg­
ular-season game. 
Torre came to the ballpark. 
worked out. then spent some 
time in his office, but was 
uncharacteristically short with 
reporters, declining to answer 
questions. 
Hernandez also wouldn't talk. 
He allowed two hits in eight 
shutout innings during the play­
offs opener and is 3-0 with an 
0.41 ERA in three postseason starts. 
Torre must decide whether to follow his first-round rotation -Andy Pettitte in Game 2 and Roger Clemens in Game 3 -or try to insert David Cone, who didn't get to pitch againstTexas because the series never got to a fourth game. 

-
---------·-.... ----~ 

Tuesday, October 12, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
AMERICAN LEAGUE DIVISIONAL SERIES 
O'Leary's homer sends Red Sox to Cham.pionship series 
A»oci,ucJ Pres~ 
CI.EVELANI). Ohio 

Wilh tlH' scorn 8-8 in tho sev­Pllth. ()'I.nary 111ad1• llHi Indians pay for nlnrting to walk (;arciaparrn again. 
Faring l11s11r Paul Shur.y . .lohn Val••ntin singlod and. af'lnr a forcnout, Indians manag11r Mike IlargrovP docid1HI to walk c;arciuparra, who killed ci,,wlaml pild1i11~ all SPason. 
Ami for tlw sncond time. tlrn stralligy blt\W up in llargrovn's fa1'.!', with ()'I.nary hilling Shuoy·s first pitch ovor tlw righl­li11ld wall !'or an 11-8 lead. 
Given tlw cushion. Martinez took the Heel Sox home from llwrn. striking out Omar Vizquul 
.. 

for tlrn final out to give Hoston 
its first win in a postsnason imri11s sinC(\ l 98(1. 
MartinPz c-rouclwcl at. t.lw ridgo of' the mound and was hugged by catrher Jason Varitck as 1hP­Hnd Sox pom·ed onto LhP 1i1\ld to c:old,ratn a snrins that three days earlier thny couldn't have imaginml winning. 
0'(.pary's slam. the first in Boston postsPason history, lrnlpcd Boston overcome a 5-2 dnficit in the third off starter Charles Nagy. who was pitching on three days' rest for the sec­ond limn in his career. Nagy intentionally walked Garciaparra and grooved a fast­ball that O'Leary hit over the wall in right-center. 
But the Indians answered 
against Derck Lowe in the bot­Babe Huth into third on the Embarrassed after getting postseason homer. homer of the series. tom half', getting an HBI double career list, lrailing only Mickey blown out in Game 4, the The Indians didn't allow Boston's star shortstop missed .. from Manny Bamirez. who had Mantle and Heggie Jackson, who Indians came out swinging in Saberhagen to relax in the sec­Game 3 with a nagging wrist benn hitless in his first 17 at­each hit 18. the first against Bret ond as Wil Cordero singled and injury, and was a late addition to 
bats of Urn series with seven The Hed Sox tied it in the Saberhagen, who again strug­Fryman homered. Fryman's Boston's lineup on Sunday. strikeoul'i. fourth on John Valentin's sacri­gled with his control and didn't towering shot was initially ruled Hargrove said injuries dictated Thome th11n connected for his fice fly. and then turned it over . get out of the second. a double, but after Hargrove most of them. s,~cond homer of' the game, a to Martinez. The right-hander. Vizquel hit an RBI double. and complained. the umpires waved Reliever Steve Reed has a 431-foot shot to \:enter that gave who could hardly play a game of two outs later, Thome launched Fryman around. strained forearm muscle, which Clevnland an 8-7 l11ad. H was the catch on Saturday, told Red Sox a 477-foot homer. As he Picking up right where they limited his use, and Steve 16th carer.r postseason homer manager Jimy Williams before approached first. Thome left off in Game 4, the Red Sox Karsay is limited as he tried to for Thome, moving him ahead of the game they he could pitch if screamed at the ball to get out, got to Nagy for two runs in the build his arm back up after an needed. and it did for his 15th career first on Garciaparra's second injury. 


Red Sox call on Martinez for relief 

Domino's Pizza 
1627 Edison Road, South Bend, IN 46637 271-0300 
STUDY BREAK SPECIAL! 
Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday Only 
Enjoy Your Break! Study Hard For Midterms. 
r--------------------, 
I I 2 Large Pizzas w / Cheese I I I $899 I 
I I 
I $1 Per Topping I 
I expires 10/14/99 I
L--------------------~ 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND, Ohio 
Boston called on an unfamil­iar reliever in an all-too-famil­iar situation. bringing injured ace Pedro Martinez in from the bullpen on Monday night to try to rescue his Red Sox from elimination. 
With Game 5 of their first­round AL playoff series against Cleveland tied at 8-8, Martinez came in fro1J1 the bullpen to start the fourth inning. 
He started Sandy Alomar off with a 91 mph fastball before inducing a groundout, then retired Kenny Lofton and Omar Vizquel for a 1-2-3 inning. 
Martinez strained a muscle in his right shoulder in ·Game 1, an injury that seemed to doom 
Boston's chances of surviving the first round of the AL play­offs. But after two consecutive Red Sox victories, including Sunday night's 23-7 beating, the teams returned to Cleveland. 
That gave Martinez another day -just enough time, per­haps -to recover. 
Martinez walked out to the bullpen in the middle of the sec­ond inning and began warming up when reliever Derek Lowe ran into trouble in the third. 
Martinez wasn't cleared to 
pitch until he had thrown a 
dozen warmup pitches before 
the game. By the third, though, 
he removed any doubt that he 
would be available. 
"Ouch!" pitching coach Joe Kerrigan said as the ball popped into his catcher's mitt. 
After just one minute of catch in right field, the Red Sox ace was declared ready for action -if needed. 
"lle's had a steady progres­sion of feeling better the last three days. So that's a good sign," Boston manager Jimy Williams said. "I really think he can pitch." 
Martinez was the best pitcher in baseball this season. leading the major leagues with a 23-4 record and 2.07 ERA while striking out a r.areer-high 313 batters. But he left Game 1 after four innings because of a strained muscle under his right shoulder blade. 
The Red Sox lost tho first two games of the series, extending their postseason futility streak to 1 8 losses in 19 games. So when Martinez could barely pick up a ball before Game 3, it didn't seem to matter. 
But with Boston winning Saturday and Sunday. Martinez's condition became an issue again. 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, October 12, 1999 
NCAA 

WAC considers expanding league 
Associated Press 

DENVER 
The Western Athletic Conference is continuing with plans for its own expansion, com­mission er Karl Henson said Monday after TCU announced it would leave the league for Conference USA. 
"I think there will be continued discussion and analysis of the WAC as a nine-team league, 10­team league or a 12-team league," Benson said in a tele­phone conference call. "Today's 
,.. 
action by Conference USA may cause our membership to pause and evaluate the urgency. 
"I would contend that if we look to the future. we need to give serious consideration to shoring up our numbers, and trying to satisfy some of the geographic gap we have between California and Texas. It probably would behoove us to look at additional membership," Benson said. 
Conference USA presidents ear-
1.i er Monday unanimously approved the addition of TCU to the league in all sports, but passed on another WAC team from the Dallas-Fort Worth mar­ket, Southern Methodist. 
"I had prepared myself for both SMU and TCU to get invitations and accept those invitations," Benson said. "(Now] we can look at Dallas as the WAC market. That's a huge plus for the ·wAC as we continue to try to place ourselves in attractive positions." 
TCU. a former Southwest Conference member now in the Western Athletic Conference, will join C-USA in 2001. 
The WAC was a 16-school league until eight members ­BYU, Utah, New Mexico, Air Force, Wyoming, UNLV, Colorado State and San Diego State ­defected to form the Mountain West Conference. That confer­ence is in its first year of opera­tion. 
Remaining in the WAC were Rice, Fresno State, Hawaii, San Jose State, UTEP, TCU, Tulsa and , SMU. The league will have at least eight schools, because Nevada is scheduled to join next season. 
Among the schools believed to be expressing interest are Boise State, Idaho, Utah State. Arkansas State, North Texas, New Mexico State, Louisiana­Lafayette, Louisiana Tech and Louisiana-Monroe. 
"I talked with several of the WAC presidents today," Benson said. "There is a meeting sched­uled for Sunday here in Denver, in anticipation that the WAC would need to make some mem­bership decisions. That meeting will still be conducted and the WAC will look at the options. 
"It would behoove us to contin­ue to explore the various models, whether that be a nine-team model, 10-team model or a 12­tearn model," he said. 
GOLF 
Golfers capture piece of 
title in 16-team tournament 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame sophomore Steve Ratay held on to cap­ture medalist honors while the Irish finished tied for first with Miami of Ohio in the 16-team field, following final-round action Tuesday at the annual Legends of Indiana Intercollegiate. held at the par-72, 7,044-yard Legends of Indiana Golf Course. 
The final 16-tcam stand­ings mark the first time in the history of the Notre Dame men's golf program that an Irish squad has fin­ished first in back-to-back tournaments. Notre Dame opened the 1999 fall season by winning the 24-tcam Air Force Invitational with a school-record score of four­over 868. 
The strong start provides a huge boost to Notre Dame's hopes for securing the program's first appear­ance in the NCAA Championship since 1966. The Irish were in the run­ning for NCAA bids during each of the past two sea­sons, but had to rallv in the sprain after sub-par fall per­formances. 
Ratay -who opened with rounds of 71 and 70 on Monday -closed with a 73 on Tuesday for a 214 total, 
edging Marshall's Aaron 
Williams by a single stroke 
to finish atop the 80-player field. Ratay's two-under 214 total represents the fourth­best 54-hole score in team history and marks just the fourth time that an Irish golfer has finished under par during a 54-hole inter­collegiate event. 
Current senior Jeff Connell holds the 54-hole scoring record (four-under 209 at the Marshall Invitational in the spring of 1998) while Connell also shot a four­under 212 at the Kentucky Invitational last spring. Current senior captain Todd Vernon matched that score earlier this fall· at the Air Force Invitational. 
Notre Dame opened with rounds of 296-294 on Monday but trailed Louisville by a single stroke. The Irish then closed with a strong round of 28:1 in the play-five, count-four format while Louisville dropped to fifth with a closing 294. Miami used a strong final round to forge the first-place tie. 
Irish junior Alex Kent, playing just his second career tournament with the Irish, provided a big boost for the Irish with a final­round 69, placing the broth­er of former Irish great Willie Kent in a tie for sixth with a 217 total Vernon, who finished third at Air Force, tied for ninth with a 218 total while junior Adam Anderson rounded out the Irish continent. 
Notre Dame's first-place finish was more impressive due to the limited contribu­tions by Connell, with the Irish essentially playing as a four-man team. Connell, who withdrew from the first round after aggravating a wrist injury, returned for the second and third rounds but did not count to the team score, after recording rounds of 78 and 80. 
Ratay posted Noire Dame's fifth medalist finish in an intercollegiate tourna­ment during the last three seasons, spanning 22 tour­naments. He is the fourth different Irish golfer to win a tournament since the fall of 1997. Notre Dame golfers also have finished as run­ner-up at six different tour­naments since the fall of 1997, with an impressive total of six different players posting first or second-place finishes during that span. 
Miami technically was awarded the team title, with the tie broken by fifth-man score. 
Miami's Ryan Lagergren shot 78-73-77 to best Connell's overall and third­round score. 

University of Notre Dame Annual Drinking Water Quality Report Consumer Confidence Report 1999 
The amendments to the 1996 Safe Drinking Water Act requires each public water supply to produce a water quality report titled the "Consumer Confidence Report" (CCR). Following is the University's report. 
The University's water system is operated by Facilities Engineering.  lt is a privately owned public water  Water Quality Data  
supply.  The University's system provides water to the University community, the nearby C.S.C. properties,  
and Holy Cross Community College.  Questions regarding the system or sampling results can be directed to  The table below lists the EPA's regulated and unregulated contaminants detected in the Universityis drinking  
Paul Kempf, Director of Utilities, I 02 Facilities Building, Notre Dame, IN, 46556, phone 2 I 9-631-6594 or  water during 1998.  All ofthe contaminants are below allowable levels.  
Mike McCauslin, Assistant Director, Risk Management and Safety, 636 Grace Hall, Notre Dame, IN, 46556,  
phone 219-631-5037.  Not included in the table are the more than 150 other contaminants including pesticides, herbicides, metals, syn­ 
There are currently five wells serving the water system.  All are located on the campus proper.  The water  thetic organic chemicals, volatile organic chemicals and others which were tested and not detected.  
is drawn from deep aquifers that are adequately protected by substantial clay barriers that serve to protect the  
groundwater supply.  We do not believe that our source is vulnerable to contamination.  We are also taking  Regulated at point of entry (well)  
steps to ensure that our water source does not become contaminated and are in the initial stages of what is  Highest level  EPA's  EPA's  Source of  
known as a Wellhead Protection Program.  This program assists in defining where the water supply comes  Substance  ~  MU  ~ ~  Cm1taminan1  
from and methods to protect the aquifers from future contamination.  Nitrate (ppm)  4.0  10  10  (1.5-4.0)  Runoff from fertilizer  
The sources ofdrinking water (both tap water and bottled) include rivers, lakes, streams, ponds, reservoirs,  use, +septic tanks,  
springs, and wells.  As water travels over the surface ofthe land or through the ground, it dissolves naturally­ natural deposits  
occurring minerals and, in some cases, radioactive material, and can pick up substances resulting from the  Nickel (ppm)  0.0034  0.1  0  Pipe materials natural  
presence of animals or from human activity.  deposits  
Drinking water, including bottled water, may reasonably be expected to contain at least small amounts of  
some contaminants.  The presence of contaminants does not necessarily indicate the water poses a health risk.  Regulated at point of entry (well) Continued  
More information about contaminants and potential health affects can be obtained by calling the  Highest level  EPA's  EPA's  Source of  
Environmental Protection Agency's Safe Drinking Water Hotline ( 1-800-426-479 I).  Substance  ~  MCL  MQ,fil  ~  Contamimml  
Contaminants that might be expected to be in source water (untreated water) include:  Gross alpha (pCi/L)  7.9  15  0  (0.1-7.9)  Naturally occurring  
•Microbial contaminants, such as viruses and bacteria, which may come from sewage treatment  Gross beta (pCi/L)  9.6  15  0  (0-9.6)  Decay of natural and  
plants, septic systems, agricultural livestock operations, and wildlife.  man made deposits  
•Inorganic contaminants, such as salts and metals, which can be naturally•occurring or result from  Unregulated Substance,  
urban stormwater runoff, industrial or domestic wastewater discharges, oil and gas production,  Highest level  EPA's  EPA's  Source of  
mining or framing.  Substance  ~  MU  ~ ~  Cootllmiaaal  
•Pesticides and herbicides, which may come from a variety ofsources such as agriculture,  Sodium (ppm)  47  
urban stormwater runoff, and residential uses.  
•Organic chemical contaminants, including synthetic and volatile organic chemicals, which are by­ Regulated at the User tap  
products of industrial processes and petroleum production, and can also come from gas stations,  Highest level  EPA's  EPA's  Source  
urban stormwater runoff, and septic systems.  Substance  ~  MU  ~ ~  Coatinni . llDI  
•Radioactive contaminants, which can be naturally-occurring or be the result ofoil and gas  Copper (ppb) 90th percentile  280  1300  1300  (l.1-280)  Corrosion ofplumbirig  
production and mining activities.  systems  
Some people may be more vulnerable to contaminants in drinking water than the general population.  Lead {ppb) 90th percentile  6.8  15  0  (<0.5-6.8) Corrosion of plumbing  
Immuno-compromised persons such as persons with cancer undergoing chemotherapy.-persons who have  systems  
undergone organ transplants, people with HIV/AIDS or other immune system disorders, some elderly, and  Definitions  
infants can be particularly at risk from infections.  These people should seek advice about drinking water  
from their health care providers.  EPA/CDC guidelines on appropriate means to lessen the risk of infection by  MCL ·  Maximum contaminant level (MCL).  The highest level ofcontaminant that is allowed in drinking water.  
Cryptosporidium and microbial contaminants are available from the Safe Drinking Water Hotline ( 1-800-426­ MCLG -Maximum contaminant level goal (MCLG).  The level of a contaminant at which there is no known or  
4791 ).  expected health risk.  
Infants and young children are typically more vulnerable to lead in drinking water than the general popula­ ppm -Parts per million.  
tion.  In general, ifyou flush your cold tap unti! the water gets as cold as it is going to get, you will have elim­ ppb -Parts per billion.  
inated the potential metal concentration.  Additional information is available from"the Safe Drinking Water  90th Percentile-90% of the samples were below lhe number listed.  
Hotline (1-800-426-4791 ).  pCi/L -Picocuries per liter  
We have tested for over 150 parameters regulated by the EPA and the State of Indiana.  Included in these  Since 1993, the University has been granted a standardized Monitoring Framework (SMF I), monitoring waiver.  
tests were metals, volatile organics, pesticides, herbicides, SOC's and cyanide.  Due to the high quality ofthe water, the monitoring frequenci~s are significantly reduced.  

Tuesday, Octol:rer 12, 1999 

Soccer 
continued from page 28 
dable f'orc1i on the Irish front liiw. 
The Irish defense, which . anchored the team onrthc lield since the op,ming game of the season, is a consistent force. Keeping the Irish in close games and setting up the team's patient attack, the backfield was instrumental in the team's recent victories. 
~we had our low point on d1if'cnse when we traveled to California and lost two games there," Short said. USince then we've come together and played really well. We've got a lot nf experience between Matt McNcw, Connor LaRose and Steve Maio." 
The Irish will need to keep playing with such precision if they plan to extend their win­ning streak to five games with a victory against Valparaiso. 
The Crusaders. plagued by some tough losses. are in the midst of a disappointing sea­son with a 2-8 overall record. Even with key starters return­ing. the Crusaders have had trouble puiting a strong team on the field against Mid­Continent conference oppo­nents. 
"There's been a tendency for us to overlook teams with­out a good record," said Short. "But the highlight of their year is playing Notre Dame. If they could win or even tie us that would make their season." 
The Irish and the Crusaders share a long history -one that's been very successful for Notre Dame. 
The Irish hold a 26-0 record against the Crusaders. Overall the Irish have outscored the Crusaders 160-19 and only three times have failed to score less than three goals in a single game. 
The Observer . SPORTS 
Knott 
continued from page 28 
Jonathan Smith then hauled in a "Hail Mary" pass from quarterback Suarez as time expired, making the halftime score 21-6 in favor or the Juggernaughts. 
Virtue completed his three­touchdown day by running the ball in for the score on fourth and goal in the fourth quarter. bringing the score to 28-6. 
Kicker Kevin Heffernan added an extra point of the day. 
Siegfried 7, Zahm 7 
The brutal batllc between Zahm and Siegfried leatured an intense rivalry, but the play was not pretty, leaving the two team knotted in a tie. 
Zahm captain Mike Garko knew Sunday's game would be fused with competition. and that neither team would display affectionate feelings towards the other. 
"It's going lo be a tough game," Garko said. "Because we pretty much hate them and they pretty much hate us." 
The Zahmbies, ending the season at 0-3-1. struck first when they clawed their way inside the ten yard line, allowing quarterback Dan Burke to run in for the score from the 5-yard line. The Ramblers could have avoided the Zahmbie touch­down when Mike Vossen or the Ramblers intercepted a pass from Burke in the middle of the scoring drive, but a penalty for roughing the passer put the ball back into the hands of the Zahmbies. 
"I thought that was a critical play. because we could have got the ball back." Siegfried coach Jaime Bordas said. "I though it was a bad call by the refs." 
Siegfried, which fell to 2-0-2, evened the score at seven as the seconds ticked away in the first half when runningback Travis 
page 23 
... 
Smith ran the ball in inches away from the goal line on fourth down. The score capped a drive highlighted by Peter Aguiar's play, who caught a 30­yard pass from quarterback Rob Plumby. 
During the second half, the two teams both threatened to score, but the ball kept switch­ing between the Zahmbie and Siegfried offenses. 
Siegfried came the closest to scoring in the final minutes when Larry Zimont caused a Zahm fumble, one of three fum­bles he caused during the game. The ball was picked up by defensive lineman Chris Gahagan, who rumbled down the sideline to the 17-yard line. 
On second down. the Ramblers called on the depen­dent leg of kicker Peter Aguiar to secure the win with a 30-yard field go.al. but a botched snap prevented the kick. 
The Ramblers tried to recover and get off another field goal attempt, but time expired before they were allowed to do so. 
Quarterback Rob Plumby expressed his team's frustration with the loss. 
"We thought we played well," Plumby said. "Zahm got some calls that helped them out a lit­tle bit, and we were kind of frus­trated with that." 
Sorin 20, Fisher 15 
Freshman Greg Camey played a part in nearly all the game's highlights, and caused every Sorin score, leading the Otters to a hard-fought victory over the Green Wave of Fisher. 
Carney finished the day with three touchdowns. and kicked two extra points. 
In the second quarter, Otters quarterback Luke Beuerlein connected with Carney for a touchdown with a pass from the 34-yard line. 
A five-yard touchdown pass from Beuerlein to Carney in the final seconds of the first half increased Sorin's lead to 14-0. 
Fisher, which fell to 2-1-1, mounted a comeback in the sec­ond half when runningback Zack Allen took the ball in for a score, cutting the Otter lead in half. 
A fourth-quarter touchdown pass from Fishe·r quarterback Hick Ysasi to Gabe Cassel brought the Green Wave within one point of the Otters. 
The Green Wave then moved ahead of thfl Otters 15-14 when Ysasi connected with Steve Doherty for a successful two­point conversion. 
Sorin remained composed after Fisher took the lead and put together a successful drive on its ensuing possession. Beucrlein hooked up with wide receiver Antoine Tobias to move to the Fisher 44-yard line, and then hit Carney with a bomb for another touchdown pass. allow­ing Sorin to overtake the lead at 20-15. An attempt at at a two­point conversion was denied when runningback Fred Faber fumbled the ball, but the insur­ance points were not needed. 
Faber. the Otters captain, rec­ognized the important role Carney played in assuring an Otters win. 
"He did pretty well," Faber said. "We were trying to throw to Tobias, but by doing that we opened [Carney] up, and he ended up catching the balls as usual. 
"Fisher failed to pull together a successful offensive drive on the next position. going out on four downs. The Otters took over the ball, and the Green Wave could only watch as they let the seconds tick away. 
"We felt like we played really well," Ysasi said. "But we made a few mistakes that probably cost us the game." 
By winning. Sorin improved its record to 3-1, and is posi­tioned on top of its division, along with Knott Hall. 
Defeating Fisher was crucial in securing one of the top seeds for the playoffs. 



world drink tomorrow? 
You can help make the choice! At ACNielsen BASES, the world leader ,n new product evaluation and sales forecasting, we provide state-of-the-art simulated test-marketing services to help clients decide which new consumer packaged goods to produce, how to improve new ~nd existing products, and how to market products for maximum results -but 11 s our people who determine how well we perform. If you are analytical, curious, independent, organized, flexible and team oriented 'd /'k t t 
Information Session: 11/17/99 Interviews: 11 /18/99 
We are seeking outstanding candidates to join us as: 
Marketing Research Analysts 
Cincinnati, Ohio 
You'll do it all: help with study design, run forecasting models, analyze and summarize results,. prepare client reports and presentations and attend client meetings. This posItIon can lead ta even greater responsibility in client service/ analysis. A Bachelor's degree in majors such as Business, Marketing, a Liberal Arts field, or Social Sciences is required (3.0 minimum cumulative GPA) Demonstrated writing and analytical skills are essential. 
Please contact your Career Services Office for further information on our campus visit and interview sign-ups. If you are unable to meet with us during our vIs:t, please send your resume to: College Relations, ACNielsen BASES, 50 E. R,verCenter Blvd., Suite 1000, Covington, KY 41011, e-mail: hr@bases.com, Fax: (606} 655-6293. 
.. 


page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, October 12, 1999 
VOLLEYBALL 


Special to The Observer 
For the third time this sea­son, Notre Dame volleyball player Mary Leffers was named Big East co-player of the week for her strong per­formances in Notre Dame's three matches last week. 
Leffers, who received the same honor Sept. 6 and Oct. 4, shares the award this week with Connecticut's Chanice Harris. 
Leffers led the Irish to victo­ries over Big East conference foes Rutgers and Seton Hall and had a strong performance in the team's loss to 23rd­ranked Michigan. 

The senior middle blocker led Notre Dame in blocks all three matches with 1.9 blocks per game while averaging 
3.90 kills per game on .471 hitting. 
She also had a notable match against Rutgers, recording 14 kills with no· errors for a career-high .737 hitting percentage. 
In four Big East matches this season, Leffers leads the Irish with an average 4.33 kills and two blocks per game. 
NFL 
Irvin expected to play again 
IRVING, Texas 

Wearing a protective collar around his ner,k, Michael Irvin flew home Monday and will await further examinations to determine the severity of' his injury. 
Early indications suggest the Dallas Cowboys rnceiver will recover from a swollen spinal cord and hArniated disc and play again this season. 
Irvin was injured when he was tackled early in Sunday's 13-10 loss to the Philadelphia Eagles, and now the question is how much time he will miss. 
"It's really loo hard to tell how long he's going to be out right now," trainer Jim Maurer said. "We're optimistic that Mike will be back this year." 
Irvin, who is taking medicine to reduce the swelling, will see a Dallas-area spine specialist Wednesday. An MRI will be taken and compared to one made hours after the injury. How much has changed will determine the next step in his treatment. 
Exams Sunday showed swelling in the spinal cord in two places near the base of the skull. 
Maurer said he doesn't expect the new pictures to show any further damage that may have been obscured by the initial swelling. 
"I thirik they got a prntty good picture of everything he incurred," Maurer saicl. 
The trainer admitted Monday that Irvin lost some feeling immediately after the injury. 
"He had some limitations on the field," Maurer said. "He didn't have full motor runction and he had pain in his neck." 
Irvin was able to move his hands and feet within 15 min­utes, much to the relief of his terrified teammates. He was 
then strapped to a stretcher 
and taken to the spinal unit at 
Thomas Jefferson Hospital, 
where he spent the night. 
By Monday morning, Irvin 
had regained full use of his 
motor functions -the most 
encouraging sign yet. 
"That's one of the reasons 
he's being rdeased as early as 
today," Maurer said. 
The :13-year-old has been a 
leader for Dallas on and off the field since joining the l(1am in 11)88. He hasn't missed a · game because of injury since 1990, Emmitt Smith's rookie 
season. 
"Michael has be,rn a great 
player for this organization for 
a long time," said quarterback 
Troy Aikman, who has won 
three Super Howls with Irvin. 
"He's made a lot of big plays in 
a lot of big games. 
··we're going to miss his 
presence and we'll miss his 
rnmpetitive spirit. llopefully 
it'll only be two wePks." 

MEN'S SOCCER 
LaRose named defender of week 
Special to The Observer 
Connor LaRose, who helped the Irish men's soccer team to two shutout wins last week, was named the Big East defensive player of the week. 
The junior defender helped Notre Dame to two shutout victories over IUPUI (1-0) and Providence (4-0). 
LaRose, who has started all 12 games in 1999, also con­tributed his second assist of the season in the Providence game. 
He assisted on Notre Dame's first goal of the game 3 min­utes, 32 seconds into the con­test, a goal that was scored by Dustin Pridmore who netted two goals in the shutout. 
Notre Dame is 7-4-1 overall and 3-1-1 in the Big East. 
The Irish have won four straight, their longest win streak of the season. The four consecutive victories are the most since 1997. 
Notre Dame recorded 
shutout wins in its last threr, outings and six total for the campaign. 
The Irish have a 0.88 goals against average as a team. 
LaRose is the third different Irish player to earn Big East weekly honors. 
Senior goalkeeper Gerick Short earned goalkeeper of the week honors twice, while freshman 
Erich Braun was tabbed rookie of the week one week ago. 


The Notre Dame Washington Semester A Hanley Lecture Series Program 

An Interactive Video Conference Discussion from Notre Dame's Washington D.C. Program 
fl Women's Place 
j11 Congress:  
APanel Discussion  
·th ~  * Senator Mary Landreu (D-LA)* Representative Ann M. Northup (R-KY) * * moderated by: Bob Woodruff (ABC News)  

This panel discussion originates in Washington at the ND Washington Semester program and will be interactively videoconfcrenced to campus. Members of the campus audience will be able to participate in the discussion 
r Wednesday * October 13th * 6:30 p.m. 134 -College of Business Administration 
_______..,.'-________ --:--.--------·---·----------------------_______,________ 
-,­
page 25

Tuesday, October 12, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS 
-================================================================================================ 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Makinen earns Big East honors 
Special m The Observer 
Nolrn Dame junior women's SO<TN all-American midliclder t\nnc Makirwn was rmrnPd the Big l•ast <'.on!'nrnnco offonsive play1•r of the W<'Pk aftr•r sr.or­i11g thrcn goal:-. and rncording an assist. in Notrn Dame's lhron wins last wcrnk. 
111 tlJ(! 4-I win over 16th­rnnknd Michigan, Makinen llroke a 1-1 tin with lrnr first goal of llrn ganw just 2 min­tilns. 5 s1iconds hnfore hull'­titun and thnn helped the Irish pull away quickly with the gamP-winning goal just 2:25 into Lhc sccoml half'. 
Shn ,tlso hnlp<id tlie Irish rlin('h thn Mid-Atlantic divi­sion by scoring the ganw-win­11 ing goal against West Virginia with a blast f'rom 22 yards out on the righl wing as Llw Irish won !i-1. She capped off Nolr<! Danw's J-0-0 wock with an assist on Jenny Strni/'for's game winnf!r against Pittsburgh as tlw Irish l'inishnd r,-0-0 in tlw Mid­Atlantic division with a 5-0 victory ovPr tho Panthers. 
l•or· tlw WPck. Makinen lin­islwd with thrnc gnals and an assists for scv,m points in th rcH\ wins. Sim r ur rcntly stands fourth in scoring for the sixth-rankl'd Irish with seven goals and five assists for 21 points in nine games played. 
Tlw olfonsivo player of the week award marks the second in Makirwn's caroer and the S!\cond in a~ many weeks aftl\r .lmrny I left last W()C\k. 

Special to The Observer 
The field hockey club avenged an earlier 3-1 defeat to North Shore-of Chicago as it triumphed 4-2 at Stepan Field Sunday. Kyle Frigon scored three goals and Captain Liza Natkchia added the other goal. The Irish improved to 2-1, with University of Chicago next on the scliedu_lc. 
Cycling 
The cycling club continued its demanding pace of weekly com­petition in the Miami of Ohio mountain bike invitational. Top finishers for the Irish this week were Sean Mynn's 24th place in the A cross country race and Jesse Hensley's 17th place in the B cross country race. 
Men's Rowing 
The men's rowing club began its season in auspicious fashion at the Head of the Rock Regatta in Rockford, Ill. The club com­peted in both lightweight and opfm fours, but the feature race was the heavyweight eight's. With 25 schools entering several boats each, the Irish claimed an impressive sixth place, finishing behind five boats from the L"niversity of Wisconsin. Wisconsin is not only a varsity team, but also the defending national champion, and one of the top three varsity programs in the country this year. 
CLUB SPORTS 
Field Hockey club gets revenge in 2-1 victory 
Salling 
The sailing club's Sarah Grunow was selected to race with the Midwest C:ollngiate Sailing Conforoncn team against the British Universities Sailing Association team. The team competnd for the .John Lord l(jng Trophy, the final leg of' the British tour. Racing Tartan-10s in 6-foot waves with 20-knot winds, thn British took home tlrn trophy. edging the MCSJ\ 2-1 in three vnry close races. British schools represented included Oxford, Cambridge. SouLhhampton, Portsmouth. and University College of London, while MCSA sailors reprnsontfld Purdue, Michigan. Michigan .. State, Marquetti1, Western Michigan and Notre Dame. 
Water Polo 
The men's water polo club captured the Northern Division of the Midwest Hegion by sweeping all four matches this weekend. Led by Matt McNicholas' 17 goals and Josh Heinlein's 10 goals, tho Irish opened with a 21-1 win over Ball State, then def'eat!Jd Bowling Green 27-5 and Findlay 21-4. They won the champi­onship with an 11~3 victory over Tolndo. The club will now travel to the Midwest Championships at Miami of Ohio, where Southern Division champion and defending Midwest Champion Dayton waits. The tournament will decide the national quali­• fiers . 

Higher Learning 
&; 

Catholic Traditions 
An Erasmus Institute conference celebrating the reopening of the Main Building at the University of Notre Dame 
Agenda 
Wednesday, October 13, I 999 Wednesday, October 13, 1999 
8 a.m. Continental Breakfast 12:30 p.m. Lunch (Lower Level ofMcKenna 
8:30 a.m. Welcome Hall--must have ticket) 'lathan Ilatch Provost 2 p.m. Christian Faith in the University ofNotre Dame Academy the Role of James l'urner Ph:ysics Dirl.!ctor. Erasmus Institute Rev. Dr. John Polkirighorne University of Notre Dame President Emeritus 
Queens' College 

9a.m. Catholic Universities: University ofCambridge Dangers, Ho1>es, Choices Alasdair MacIntyre 3:45 p.m. Not All the Nations Professor of Philosophy Furiously Rage Together Duke University Bruce Russett 
Dean Acheson Professor of 

10:45 a.m. Catholicism and Sociology: International Relations and Elel'tive Affinitv or Political Science Unholy Allianc~? Yale University Alan Wolfe Professor of Political Science 6:30 p.m. Reception and Dinner Director, Center for Religion (Lower Level of McKenna and American Public Life Hall--must have ticket) Boston College 

The Erasmus Institute 
1124 Flanner Hall Notre Dame, lN 46556-5611 !'hone: (219) 631-9346 


Fax: (219) 631-3585 

Initial funding for the Erasmus Institute comes from the
E-mail: erasmus@nd.edu generosity of an anonymous donor, The Pew Charitable
Web: www.nd.edu/~erasmus 

Trusts, and the Universit of Notre Dame. 
October 13-14, 1999 
McKenna Hall Auditorium University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, Indiana 
Thursday, October 14, 1999 
8 a.m. Continental Breakfast 
8:30 a.m. "Art," Literature, Theology: Learning from Germany 
Nicholas Boyle I-lead of Department ofGerman University of Cambridge 
10:15 a.m. Catholic Traditions and the Dilemmas of Universal Rights 
Mary Ann Glendon Learned Hand Professor of Law Harvard University 
noon What Have We Learned? 
Jean Bethke Elshtain Laura Spelman Rockef'cller Professor ofSocial and Political Ethics University ofChicago 
1:00 p.m. Lunch 
(Lower Level ofMcKcnna I lall--must have ticket) 
2:30 p.m. Tour of Main Building 
Meet--McKenna Hall Lobby 
.,_ All are welcome to attend 
All presentations followed by open discussion 

r----"'--------------~---~-----------------·~----------.-_______....,______ 
page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, October 12, 1999 
WOMEN'S SOCCER WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
Saint Mary's falls to Olivet, 3-0 
By SARAH RYNKOWSKI Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's soccer team was unable to make any of its shots on goal Sunday, losing at Olivet College 3-0. 
"It was definitely a learning experience," head coach Jason Milligan said. "In losing games, you are able to· address certain things you don't see when you're winning. We found sev­eral to focus on." 
Olivet's first goal came on a corner kick knocked in by Laura Fiorino. The second was scored bv Olivet's Tricia McNortea." Olivet's third and final goal was scored by Jamilla Faraj after a corner kick as both teams fought for posses­sion of the ball. 
"It was not a good game for us," freshman midfielder Heather Muth said. "We came out really flat. We picked up, but it was too little, too late." 
Throughout the game, Saint Mary's struggled to adapt to Olivet's playing style. 
"We took ourselves out of the game," Muth said. "They weren't more skilled than we were by any means. We tried to dribble when we needed to do more passing and crossing." 
The Belles had a total of 16 shots on goal but were unable to capitalize on any of their attempts. 
"It was a different kind of field," freshman Molly O'Shea said. "The ball bounced a lot."

.. 
O'Shea traveled with the team but did not play due to a leg injury. 


KRISTINE KAAlfThe Observer 
Freshman midfielder Lynn Taylor looks to take the ball upfield in 
last week's game against Albion. 
Co-captain Katy Barger and Mary Campe led the Belles with four shots each, while co-cap­tain Erin McCabe and Laura Paulen contributed two. Muth, Tia Kappahahn and 
Lynn Taylor also had shots. "We didn't create much offense," Muth admitted. Saint Mary's lost to Olivet last 
year 5-1. · "[They had] a different style of playing," Milligan said. "We haven't played against teams that have been as physical as they were." 
The Belles are now 1-2-1 in MIM conference play and 7-2­2 on the season. The Belles gave up the least number of goals in the conference, with only nine so far this season. 
Goalie Brie Gershick made a total of 12 saves in Sunday's game. 
"I think we came off the field a better team than we were [before]," Milligan said. 
Saint Mary's next game is at home on Wednesday at 4 p.m. 
The Belles will host Calvin College, which is ranked second in the conference. Calvin is 4-1­0 in MIAA play, and 8-4-0 for the season. 
"It's time for our determina­tion to turn into success," Cara Dunbar said. 
Belles place seventh at Benedictine Invite 
By MOLLY McVOY Assistant Sports Editor 
Saint Mary's cross coun­try team continued improving this season, as they ran to a seventh-place finish in the Benedictine University Invitational Friday. 
Last year, Saint Mary's finished ninth out of 25 teams and looked to beat that mark this season. It moved up to seventh out of 26 teams this time around. 
"It was a very difficult course in terms of hills and footing," head coach DavA Barstis said. "l was verv happy with it, especially since we had not SP.en it before." 
The Belles had not seen the course before running it in the meet. 
But that wasn't the only thing that left them unpre­pared. 
They arrived only half an hour before the meet, barely having time to warm up or check in. 
They were also without two of their top five run­ners. Bridget Nugent and Katie Ward were unable to attend the meet, and Melissa Goss was not at full capacity, still recover­ing from shin splints. 
"This was a tougher course than last week, and we got there very late," junior Genevieve Yavello said. "I have to say, every­one rose to the occasion and performed well." 
Yavello was Saint Mary's top finisher on the after­noon. She finished 24th overall with a time of 21 minutes and 6 seronds. 
Huntington College won the meet, with Lewis College and St. Xavier College coming in second and third, respectively. 
Agnes Stalmach from Lewis College won the race individually, with a time of 19:09. 
The Belles have three meets left this season and are going to concentrate on the MIAA champi­onships at the end or the season. 
"We have Dflfiance com­ing up next," Barstis said. !'J'm looking past that meet to tho championships at the end of October," 
With the Belles looking to have their team at full strength for only the sec­ond time this season, they hope to surprise the con­ference at the champi­onships. 
"I think having everyone back will push us up far­ther in the conference than last year," Yavello said. "We'll place better than last year, and it will be an unexpected finish." 


THE STANDING COMMITTEE ON 
GAY AND LESBIAN 
STUDENT NEEDS 
Due to an advertising design error. this ad is running one day late. 
58 Franklin and  
Eleanor  
Roosevelt, e.g.  
62 Together,  
musically  
63 Jetes. e.g.  
64 Family problem  
66 Stew bean  
67 "L.A. Law" lawyer  
68 Mother of twins,  ---+-+-­ 
in myth  
69 Watch part  
70 Bury  
11 Once, once  
DOWN  
1 Stir-fry pan  
2 Preprandial  
potable  
3 Evergreen with  
roselike flowers  
4 Kind of replay  
s Undo a dele  
6 Lawn pest  
7 Betel palm  
e Didn't stop  Puzzle by Randv Sowell  
9 Doan Oscar  
winner's job  31 Cuzco-centered  45 45-Across  57 Ransack and  
10 Mimic 11 Six Million Dollar Man, e.g.  empire 33 It smooths things over  features 46 "Yippee!" 47 Take for granted  rob 59"Go,--!" 60 60's role for Ron  
12 Town in County  35Cheat  49 Sot's problem  Howard  
Kerry 13 Electric eye, e.g. 21 Oklahoma Indian  36 DeMille-type film 37 Do in, as a dragon  53Zhou-­54 Back of a boat 55 Meager  61 Person with a PC 65 Lat. case  
22 Shire who had a "Rocky" career  39 Warm welcome  

Tuesday, October 12, 1999 The Observer . TODAY page 27 
Register today for • Aerobic classes are new Yoga, Tai Chi, 
1/2 price

Knockout Workout, 
after October break!

Instructor Training 
·--sare •still available

Relaxation Training 
in many classes!

classes. ••• • 
For More Info. Contact:RecSports -1-6100 
• cP',8-EIIG!i
www.nd.edu/-recsport 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
Fox TROT 
~VE You SEEN IT'S ALL THESE ~1111'7 1\-IE CARDS oul1 SoN Pok:iMDN IS AM,1SC.1Nt:.? GAME. ALL 
I l'HE k:tDS "T r ~ HIS SC\iOOL M~E 
PLA't'1NG IT, 
I 

CROSSWORD 
APPARENTLY, !ASotfS GoT EVERY C/\RO EXCEPT oNE, 
AND HE'S BEEN SuYtN& 
PAckS LtkE CRAZY TRY1NG To GET •T. 
\ 

TOM KEELEY 
A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD JEFF BEAM 

Ovr \,lo\,,/• OOE-~ IT FE.~L kU.!.T '(OU ·C.l:c So ~0~610 W~EN""I. l\lf' Tft!:M RIG~T 
l&J\IEN ft,/W1N6 \Jl"fi-1 '(oVR MR, foTATo 1-\1:;.i!>.'O °Z 


BILL AMEND 
HE'S 8oR11oWEO So HE ONLY 
HIS NEXT 37 DoESN'T 81't 
ALLOWANCES. HAVE ONE T1MES 
IT'S l1kE A CARD.' WHI\TS ToOAY, 
S1C\CNESS. 'THE 81G DEI\L~! EILEEN. 
E. ~EA~.a)

I I
\ 
FORGING ~ACK.Woov'5., IGNOR ­

,r;=:. 
we.sre12-N STER.eo-rype:s sir-Jee 
Truth in advertising. 
beam.1 @nd edu 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
p R 
AM


L E  V I S  
A L  I B I  
N E  V I S  



RA  V E  
OM  E N  


P 1-N ET 

ARAFAT GAIT A_M~ LABOR•L I ST.STAR TRY B EIF OREY OU BUY 






-UC 
NOS 
G 
LA HEAVE 
LITTER 
BOO 


SHOPT I 
LLYOUDROP 

V E 
OA 
RS 
10 
NA

SE 
s 

N E 
A L 
V I 
MA 
NN

C L 
AS 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 40 Casey Jones, 23 Bellum's are available by touch-tone phone: e.g.
opposite 
1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per mi~).2s Moist in the 41 Tiny bubbles 
Annual subscriptions are available for the 
morning 
440Id-time best of Sunday crosswords from the last 29 Dutch cheese humorist Bill 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Kirk Cameron, Luciano Pavarotti, Chris Wallace, Tony Kubek 
Happy Birthday: Don't hold your­self back because you are afraid to take the road less traveloo. You need to stick up for yourself so that you get everything you deserve. You've worked hard in the past, and it isn't fair that someone should try to target what belongs to you. Take control now and you won't be sorry in the future. Your numbers, 12, 19, 23, 31, 
37, 44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): This is the time to get into activities that include youngsters. Consider coach­ing or sponsoring one of the kids' sports teams in your community. There are several ways you could help.000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't go overboard trying to please everyone you live with. You'll be taken if you hire a contractor to do work around your home. Tnis is not the time to spend your money on improvements. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your friends will offer a vast amount of information and get your mind off your worries. Don't get involved in gossip at work, or you may find yourself the next victim of a tongue­lashing. 000 
CAN_CER (June 21-July 22): Prob­lems will arise i.f you are extravagant or get involved in dubious financial ventures. Don't overreact to situations involving older family members. Find solutions and get on with your life. 
00000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You'll be aggressive and ready to take on the world. Don't be too overpowering or your mate will deflate your ego pretty quickly. You need to let others have 
Birthday Baby: You're a little trooper from the start, eager to discover and quick to assess any situation. You are kind, honest and willing to do what's nec­essary to make the world a better place to live as a do-gooder who quietly 
helps those in need. · (Need ad\'ice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, 
... 
eugenialast.com, astromate.com. J ~ 1999 Universal P.ress Syndic<1te 
.. 
EUGENIA LAST 
their say. 00 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sepl. 22): You 
may be a little uncert.iin about your 
position, but as the day goes on your 
confidence should mount. You must 
avoid taking parl in gossip. It will 
only hurt your reputation. 0000 
UBRA (Sep!. 23-0ct. 22): Present 
your ideas and opimons to others and 
you will find thal you receive more 
support than you anticipated. Talk to ­
those with experience about turning 
your dreams into reality 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
Expect to have problems with loved 
ones. Don't try to push others into 
doing things your way. Give your 
loved ones space if they need it. 000 
SAGilTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): 
Problems will arise 1f you get in­
volved intimatelr with a co-worker or 
employer. You must avoid being the 
topic for discussion and refrain from 
getting involved in someone else's 
demise. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You can do well financ1ally, but you will find it difficult to hang on to what you make. Don't let others take advantage of your good fortune. Remember the saying. "Easy come, easy go." 0000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb, 18): You probably don't understand your mate's needs. Don't hesitate to ask how you can make things better You probably just need to spend some time with one another in order to catch up. 00 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): If VOll aren't in business for yourself, you should be. The thought of long hours has deterred you in the past, bu I working for someone else goes against the grain. Consider a partner instead of a boss. 00000 

ACROSS 
1 Armed forces females 5 Like a whip? 10 Play parts 14 Fiery gem 15 Synagogue scroll 16 Combustible pile 17---Sabe 1a Actress Verdugo 19 Israeli statesman 20 Gizmos for couch potatoes 23 Ace, e.g 
24 "You Are My Destiny" singer, 1958 
25 Classic car 28 The "A" in NATO: Abbr. 27 Poem of praise 
30 Feline hybrid 32 Constitutional Amendment that abolished slavery 34 Just barely places 381949 Bing Crosby hit 42 Puget Sound city 43 Quotation notation 45 "Grand" piece 
of furniture 48 Dancer Charisse 50"The--• 
Divorcee" 51 Mag. staffers 52 Infamous Rudolf 56 Hardly 
award-winning 
writing 




page 28 BSERVER Tuesday, October I2, I 999 
-----· 
PORTS 
O
THE 
Comeback 
Boston won the final three games ofthe Di1•isional 
Series, including yesterday's Game 5, with an r r-8 victory 
over Cleveland. They advance to play the Yankees. 
page 21 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL 

Knott ties for division lead with 28-6 win over St. Ed's 
By RACHEL BIBER 
Spores Writer 
Knott Hall took advantage of every opportunity Sunday, blowing away St. Ed's 28-6. 
Along the way, Knott secured a position atop the division along with Sorin by

-
improving its record to 3-1. The scoring fiasco began with the Juggernaughfs first possession when runningback Pat Virtue scored on a 55­yard touchdown run. After the Juggernaughts recovered the ball. Virtue again deliv­ered a touchdown, but this time he took off from the 35­yard line. Knott's offensive line had a stellar performance, allowing for Virtue's multiple touch­downs. The line, composed of Pat Peters, Joe Stark, Lou Perrv, Steve Curasco and Lee Vyoral received praise for igniting the Juggernaught's offensive spark. "They played awesome," Virtue said. "They all had a lot of blocks that led to key-runs." \,Vhen asked to evaluate the 
performance ot' his team, cap­tain Mario Suarez could only say one thing-'"lim'.\men." 
Suarez's recognition also goes to the Juggernaughts' defensive line. consisting of .Joey Gonzalez, C.J. Murray, Paul Ryan and Kyle Trotter. 
With the .Juggernaughts leading 14-0. the Steds showfld signs of life whfln quarterback Tim Greene delivered to Nick Sciola for a touchdown pass, but they were denied the extra two points when a pass from Greene was intercepted in the end zone. 
Although St. Ed's offense has struggled to score, its efforts have not gone unno­ticerL as this season is the first time that St. Ed's has put. points on the board in years. 
"We've had St. Ed's alums from the early '90s calling and congratulating us," Sciola said. 
Knott scored again in the first half when Ed Foy inter­cepted a pass from Greene, setting up a last-second touchdown run. 
see KNOTT/page 23 

An Alumni fullback powers through the Stanford defense in the Dawgs 14-0 win over the Griffins. Alumni now stands atop its division with a 4-0 record. 
VOLLEYBALL 

Irish stay perfect in Big East play 
Hall. By MATT OLIVA The Irish (10-4, 4-0) are the Sports W rirer 
only undefeated team in the Big East after beating previ­
The Notre Dame volleyball ously undefeated Rutgers on team kept its perfect coilfer­Saturday. ence record this weekend with ln the match between the wins over Rutgers and Seton two undefeated teams in the 
.. 

conference. the Irish dominat­ed. They knocked off the Scarlet Knights 15-7. 15-9, 15­7, and dropped Rutgers' record to 9-10 overall and 2-1 in conference. 
Senior middle blocker Marv Leffers and junior outside hit­ter Jo Jameyson led the pow­erful attack of the Irish. 
Leffers. a captain, totaled 14 kills and seven blocks, while Jameyson added 13 kills. The two Irish players finished per­fect offensively, recording no hitting errors and finishing with career high hitting per­centages of .737 and .722 respectively. 
"Mary, Jo, and Christi Girton really played great matches," said Irish defensive specialist Keara Coughlin. "We have tried to speed up on offense and show domination for the Big East. We were successful and had a lot of good statistics offensively. OnA of our k!lys is running.,plays that they aren't expecting, against the flow, and it really came together this weekend." 
The Irish also played tough defensively, holding Rutgers to single digit scoring in all three games. Coughlin and Girton recorded 11 digs each, while 
see VBALL/page 17 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Notre Dame looks for five in row against Valpo 
By KERRY SMITH 
Sports Writer 
Riding its longest winning streak in two years, Notre Dame men's soccer team hits the road todav to take on the Valparaiso Crusaders. 
The Irish are coming off a successful homestand, where they swept all four games, marking a turning point in the season. 
In the team's first eight games, it managed to score only five goals and produce a 3-4-1 record. 
Now, after 12 outings, the Irish have put together a for­midable offense and knocked 17 goals in the net en route to improving to 7-4-1. 
"We've just started to score some goals," said Irish cap­tain Gerick Short. "Our first focus at the beginning of the season was obviously defense. But now that the offense has taken hold, it's taken some pressure off the defense." 
When the Irish takf1 the field against the Crusaders, it will be the team's last non-conference test of the season. The Irish will end the regular season with six Big East games that will provide tough competition. 
"Wifre not looking ahead to this weekend and overlooking Valpo," said Short. "We're seeing this game as one to improve with and then we'll set our goals for the Big East games." 
At 3-1-1 in the conference. the fact that some of Notre Dame's most important games are yet lo come is good news. The team has finally come together and proven that it can not only dominate olfonsively, but it also can finish plays and put the ball in the net. 
At the beginning of the sea­son, the Irish were left won­dering who would step up into a goal-scoring role. 
llowever, now they have plenty ·of players ready and able to fill that position . 
Leading the list of eight goal-scorers is freshman for­ward Er.ich Braun with seven. With two game-win­ning goals, Braun is a formi­
see SOCCER/page 23 

Golf ar Valparaiso, Volleyball • Cross Country ar Louisville lnvirarional, .~ Today, 5 p.m. vs. Albion College, at Central Collegiates, 
SPORTS • 1±1 
Oct. 18-19, All Day Wednesday, 7 p.m. Friday, 4 p.m.
ATA 

Golf vs. Calvin College, at Providence, vs. USC, ar Defiance College, s~ Wednesday, 4 p.m. Friday, 4:35 p.m. Saturday, 1:30 p.m. 
1±1 ~ •..-:
GLANCE ·•
Saturday, Noon 




