---------------------------~--------i 
;A~·e you ve.acly fm• some football? 
Raising their voices 
Friday ! 
¦ The annual Blue and Gold game kicks off at 
¦ Governrm:nr professors share insights on Kosovo 
APRIL 23,

I :.\0 p.m. this Saturday 
crisis :ind NATO :inniver­
;\[ Norn.: Dame Sradium. Sports Insert 
sary. Viewpoint• 7~8 
1999 


THE 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 129 
S lish, s lash I was takin· a bath 

The Observer I Kevin Dalum 

Making the best of April showers, three students take time out from studying to splash around in puddles brought by yesterday's thunder­storms. Rain will continue today, and temperatures should reach a high of 55. Clear skies should return Saturday with a high of 59. 

NDFD fights blazes through daily prevention 
By MAUREEN SMITHE New, Writt·r 
lohn Antonucci, Notn1 
llanw Fin• l)ppartnwnt rhid, 
said I.hat his dt•partnwnt did a 
stqwrior job in handling last 
WPd1l!'sday's !'ooling tower 
hlazt•. 
"I would c-ommPtHI my nwn !"or an outstanding job. A f'our­man P11gi1w company had four hos1! strPams on that fin• within mi1111t1•s of thcdr arrival. ThPir inilial ad-ion 1ml lo a l'itirly SllffPssl"til 1~11ding 
and saved thren rnmaining c:Plls of the cooling tower," he said. 
With 12 full-tim,i f'irclight­nrs and onn full-time drain lnchnician, the Notre Dame 1-'irn Department (NDFD) is ready !'or any emnrgcncy on the Notre Dame, Saint Mary's or Holy Cross campuses. 
Antonucci. a l rJ78 Notre Danw graduate, lnads his three !'our-man tDams in assuring that all 8 million squarn t'Pet of Notrn Damn propc1rty are regularly 
inspected and fire-protected. 
"There am two modes a lire department can take with rngards to fire fighting -a reactive mode or a proactive mode. Heactive mode is fire suppression, while proactive mode, which is the one we are in, is more of' fire prevention," Antonucci said. "We can not be in a reactive mode because our resources arc limited." 
Notre Dame firefighters are constantly working to ensure firn safr.ty and protection. 
"PP.opln, for the most part, think we havP. an easy job here, when in fact we are really busy. We're not watch­ing TV all day," said Gordon Martinczak, an EMT with 
NDFD. 
So what exactly does the fire department do all clay? 
"We average 1,100 to 1,200 emergency responses a year due lo activated fire alarms, trash and vehicle fires. con­struction work and actual room fires, usually due to can-
see NDFD I page 6 

WWW. N D.EDU/-OBSERVER 
¦ Kosovo CRISIS 
Milosevic to accept peace agreement 
Associated Press 
BELGHAl>F 

Yugoslavia"s top lPader will acn\pt a U.N.-led force in Kosovo, but only if' the bombing st.ops and N/\T0 withdraws troops from his hordPrs, a H.ussian envoy said Thursday. 
It was unclnar wlwtlwr such an international presnnc,~ would hi' armed and undPr what guidnlinns it would operatP. NATO has insistPd it must lead an armed prnsencn in Kosovo to nnforce any pPaCI' agrnn­ment. 
Presidnnt Slohodan Milos,wic has so f'ar rnjertnd NATO dt>111amls lo withdraw his troops from Kosovo and grant autonomy to tlw nthnir Albanian majority tlrnn1. 
Following a daylong meeting with Milosevic, formnr Hussian Preminr Viktor Chernomyrdin told rnporh1rs the two "considernd conditions for the return of thu refugees" and allowing international aid agnncies into the province. 
"We considered the possibility of an international presnncn lr,d by tlrn 
U.N. in which Hussia would takn part. Those are Lim basic principles we agreed upon," Clwrnomyrdin said, according to tho ITAH-Tass news agnncy. 
IIn added that tlwy also discussnd "the continuation of talks about widn autonomy for Kosovo, tlrn pns­si ble decrease of' SP.rb fon:ns in Kosovo and sinrnltarwous withdraw­al of NATO f'orcns." 

¦ NATO'S 50TH ANNIVERSARY 


Summit to focus on Kosovo 
Associated Press a day earlier ordenid an United St.all's ronlinu!'d lo update of' plans for a possi­opposn s!'nding ground WASIIINGTON ble ground invasion of' troops into a host.ill' nnvi­NATO lfladers toned down Kosovo. Secrntarv or State ro11m1•nt hut add1•d that it 
their plans for colebrating Madelfiine Albrigl1t said the 
Llw alliance's 50th birthday see SUMMIT / page 4 
Thursday and pledgt\d their summit would l'ocus inst.cad on plans for touglrnr steps, possibly including ground • Professors'

troops, to 
guest columns
stop the 
01.l NATO
bloodshncl 
p.7-8
in Kosovo. 
British Prinrn Minister Tony Blair said NATO's summit would sPnd "tlw clPan•st possibln nrnssagn of will and resolu­lion·· that S lobodan Milosnvi<: will not prevail. 
President Clinton con­fnrrnd at tlw Whitn House with Ni\T0 Secrctary­Gcnnral .Javior Solana, who 
¦ NEWS ANALYSIS 

Crisis-brings new challenges into focus 
ByTIMLOGAN New. Editor 

For 40 years, tho North Atlantic TrMty Organization (NATO) provided a mutual security system for western European nations against. lhl~ cnrnrnunist Warsaw Pact. 
ln the la-"t clncade, NATO has struggled lo find a roln for itself in the post-Cold War world as the Soviet Union has faded from the international picture. 

see FOCUS / page 6 


page 2 
¦ INSIDE COLUMN 

ROTC 


Revealed 
"Nonviolence only works against civilized people." -Tom Clancy, SLF 1997 
So began the infamous answer givrm by the very tactful Mr. Clancy while answering a question on Gandhi. 
Dustin Ferrell
Clancy went on to say 

Assistanr Viewpoint Editor
that Gandhi would havo been shot if' he had taken his movement to Afghanistan. This angnred many pacifist-minded people in the audience, and understandably so. But I am curious to know how many were bothered by the simple fact that the statement was dead on targel. 
I wish this was not the case, since any and all decisions to use U.S. troops in the conlict in Kosovo directly affect myself and many otllers on tllis campus. I truly hope paci.lism begins to innuence the decisions of world l!mders so that we mav find an end to lhfl horrible pain and suffering caused by war. 
At least that's what I would tell you if I ever considered the mural aspects of war. Many would find il harrl to believe that J would do such a thing. I read recently that ROTC is not "serving the purpose they should serve," to paraphrase. Reluctantly but willingly, I shall divulge the contents of my ROTC education to the student body. The following involves a typical weok in my life in ROTC: 
Monday: We start off early with physical training. Afterwards, we are marched to an underground viewing room for a motivational film, such as "Apocalypse Now." 
Tuesday: This involves our weekly drill ses­sion, which equates to goose-stepping around Loftus for an hour. Afterwards, we say a prayer that we will soon have a military state so that we may use our weapons of mass destruction with impunity. 
Wednesday: Another wonderful physical training session, usually one in which we beat each other with big sticks until we have to go to class. That's one thing that really bugs me, having to go to class and all. It dis­tracts me from my goal of becoming an impe­rialist pig. 
Wednesday evening we attend a seminar. Last week's seminar was called "Shoot Them All, Let God Sort 'Em Out," which I enjoyed almost as much as "War: The Perfect Economic Policy." 
Thursday: This involves attending guest lectures from some of the nation's finest war hawks. We are currently in the process of booking G. Gordon Liddy for next semester. Thursday night is comedy night, and we rent titles such as "Carpet Bombing Third World Countries is My Bag, Baby." 
Or sometimes I will bring in one of my Charles Bronson flicks. My favorite scene from the "Death Wish" series is when he fires a bazooka at a gang leader in his apartmrmt. But there I go wandering off of the topic again. 
Friday: I usually take this free day to spread propaganda about how "we military types" actually object to war. 
Weekends: Of course, running a military state requires little rest and endless training. Saturday is spent pursuing the wonders of explosives, while most Sundays find us pray­ing to Odin, the Viking God of War. 
Were this itinerary even slightly based in truth, some of you would actually have an argument against ROTC, but it isn't, and you don't. To those who ignore evidence of our purpose on campus. I invite you to move on to another topic, so that I may as well. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
¦ TooAv'S STAFF  
News  Scene  
Noreen Gillespie  Mark DeBoy  
Manhew Smith  Graphics  
Kate Steer  Joe Mueller  
Sports  Production  
Noah Amstadrer  Mike Connolley  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Dustin Ferrell  Kevin Dalurn  

The Observer• INSIDE Friday, April 23, 1999 




utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Colorado students agonize over high school shooting 
BOULDER, Colo. 
Colorado University freshman Mike Twisselman was lifting weights in the when he learned his sister might be dead. 
A friend came in at 12:45 p. m. and told him about two students dressed in black trench coats going into Twisselman's old school, Columbine High School, and !'iring indiscrimi­nately. He told him about the horrif­ic television reports. Ile told him about the carnage of what became the worst school shooting in American history -leaving 15 dead and another 23 in the hospital. 
"I knew that was right when lunch started," Twisselman said Tuesday night from his dorm room. "And I k,rnw rxartly whern my sister was ­she was in the choir room. So I was like 'uh-oh."' 
Twisselman, a 1998 Columbine graduate, quickly changed clothes and left. Be borrowed a friend's motorcycle, sped to Littleton and eventually arrived at Columbine Library, a few blocks away from the high school. 

He still knew nothing about Katie, liis sistrr. 
"I felt kinda mad, kinda scared," said Twisselman., a 210-pound punter for the CU football team. "Sometimes I wanted to cry." 
Across campus, graduates of Columbine stayed glued to their televisions for every bit or informa­tion on the crisis. Some, like Twisselman, w1rnt to Littleton to be with their families. 

Students without pPrsnnal connPc• tions to tho Denver suburb moni­tored the situation on tlw Internet and on TVs tlwy dragged into their classrooms. CU professors also watched with interest -as panmts und1~rstanding the horror of tlw sit­uation, as researchers understand­ing the causes or tlrn situation and as humans understanding the pain of the situation. 
The bloodshnd began at. about 11 
a.m. when two students walked into school and began spraying bullets and detonating bombs. 
Part of the so-called Trenchcoat Mana, a group of' outcast students distinguishnd by their trench coats, the duo apparently targeted ethnic minorities, athletes and anybody else they had a grudge against. 
¦ UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROUNA Sweatshop protestors occupy offices 
DURHAM, N.C. 

Students for Economic Justice is frustrated at the admin· istration's slow pace toward agreement on several demands. Twenty anti-sweatshop activists from the University have taken up residence in the school's adminis­trative office building, vowing to stay there until officials agree to their list of demands. The sit-in follows in the tra· dition of similar sweatshop protests at Duke, Georgetown and the University of' Wisconsin at Madison. With laptops, sleeping bags and food, the students say they plan to stay in the building "till it's over." Their list of demands includes full public disclosure of the addresses of factories that pro­duce UNC apparel and an administrative commitment to studying the economic impacts of requiring a living wage. "The administration have refused to act on their supposed agreement," said Lorrie Bradley, a UNC sophomore and a member of Students for Economic Justice. 
¦ UNlVEHSlTV Of PITTSBURGH Students' visit to Cuba a watershed 
PITTSBURGH. Penn. 

When the Semester at Sea ship arrived in Havana on Feb.19 for a three-day visit, it brought the largest group of Americans to Cuba since the 1959 revolution. But until just days before the S.S. Universe Explorer set sail, the necessary licenses from the U.S. government had yet lo arrive. Max Brandt, director of SAS, was doubtful the ship's occupants would get permission to visit Cuba. "We were flabbergast­ed," he said, when the licenses were approved at the last minute. In recent years, the Pittsburgh has established numerous links with Cuba. These connections, taken togeth­er, make Pittsburgh "a premier city," a'l city councilman Jim Ferlo said, on the cutting edge of changing U.S.-Cuban rela­tions. Pitt has been a key player in the Pittsburgh-Cuba con­nection. But even for an institution that has a 30-year histo· ry of constructive relations with Cuba, this has been a watershed year. 
¦ MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY ACLU criticizes ban from town 
EAST LANSING, Mich. 
A decision to ban certain peoplr, from East Lansing because of their alleged involvement in the March 27-28 riot there has drawn criticism from the American Civil Liberties Union. East Lansing judgl:)s ruled that six peo­ple, including two MSU students, cannot 1mter the city except for legal proceedings. The students can stay in the city until the end of' the semester. "[The judgesI cer­tainly have the right, but it is very unusual and bizarrn to impose restrictions of this nature," said Henry Silverman, chairperson of MSU's history department and president of the Lansing branch of the ACLU. Silverman said the penalization is unfair because the banned people have not yet been convicted of a crfinci. "It's not a question or legality, it's a question of appro­priateness," Silverman said. "By doing this, people banned am given the aura of dangProus criminals." 
¦ HARVARD UNIVERSITY Study recommends one egg per day 
CAMBHIDGE, Mass. 
In a study published Wmlnesday, 12 faculty nrnmbPrs from the Harvard Medical School and thP School of Public Health said that iiating one egg per day does not incrnasP one's risk of heart disease or stroke. "Timm is this thought that eggs are bad for you bncause tlrny're high in cholesterol, yet there's not good data indicating that eggs increase the risk of heart attack." said associate professor of epidemiology and nutrition Eric !Hmm, one of lhP study's authors. Many popular diets rncomnrnnd limiting the consumption of eggs, but tlrns11 rncommPndations arP often based on indirect r,vidnnrn, according to profossor of epidemiology and nutrition Meir Stampfor, anotlrnr author of the study. The logic behind these recomnwndations came from the belief that eating eggs, which arc high in cholesterol, would automatically lead to higlrnr levPls of blood cholesterol. 
¦ LOCAL WEATHER ¦ NATIONAL \/'VEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather" foreca,l for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
H  
Friday Saturday Sunday I Monda·y  ~55 -r) 59 ~65 ~. 70  
Tues(l~y  ..  r -.~ 70  

()'-,..,J•--"''R,,/" "-.....;~ 
L 
49 39 44 
rw.-­
45 
44. 

The AccuWeathe~ forecast tor noon, Friday, Apr. 23. 
Lines separate high temperature zones tor the day 

,,;,,, . \ ~ 
, ' ) '.r/
r,1., VJ { 
~~.,,~ 
~t i"'~.__:-1 
aos r ,· 
'\ 
'"' 

";;°<c,90s 
"' 805-4"-1os 
50s 60s 
80s 
FRONTS: 
......-T" ............ ....,.......,,. 

Cl 1999 AccuWeathltf', Inc, COLO WARM STATIONARY 
@"""'c:0 D CJ D . . . () ~~§, "#~N· 
High L.ow Showers Rain T-11torma Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
V,a kisocia,.d Press 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is publi,hed !vlonday through Friday 

Q,Q,Qq~Q i)-~ u 
except during ~Kam and vacation period!>. The Qb:,;crver is a member of 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny pt_ Cloudy Cloudy
rhc A\.'iOCl:ired Prei.s. All rcproduuion nght,; art' re-.ervcd. 
Via Associated Press Greph1csNe1 

Albany  60  45  Kansas City  72  55  New York  60  56  
Atlanta  83  60  Los Angeles 71  51  Orchard Park 60  41  
Boston  61  46  Manchester  61  39  Seattle  66  44  
Chicago  55  50  Miami  85  72  Syracuse  54  41  
Dallas  81  68  New Orleans 86  68  Washington  76  56  


hiday, April 23, 1999 The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
---···---~­





Carmody explains four marks of faith 
By SARAI I MACNESS 
Nl'ws Writ<'r 
lknisn Carmody c•xplaincd lhP hoHk "An ldnitl c:hurc!L !\ M,\(lilalion" as being "a mcdi1a­Lio 11 on wltal our Christian d111rrl1 ouglJL to Im" Thursday at Saint Mary's I IJ'JIJ Madnleva 1.rntun~ in Spirilualily. 
1'111' first st1g11w11t of Uw lm:­turc• rnwn•d ''Going Back to Co Forward." whid1 I\Xplainnd tho history of Christianity nnd lhn Catholic faith. It also prnvidnd insig-ht inlo what idnnl ocdnsiolo­gy ,inlails through 1111' four marks of tho Churd1: orw, holy, ( :atholic and apostolic. 
Tlw tw,wlH or going ba1'.k and 11ndPrsLandi11g llw history is lo im,tginP thn irlnal. Carmody imid. 
"In as murh as WP arp P!llharking ()11 a linw or t'.rt\ativo m 11si11J.{, ('VPI\ drrnuning. w,~ loo cannot lw sum what th!\ consn­qu••11t'.ns will Im:· Carmody said. 
Tlw Churrh iL..;,dl' has linPn idP­alistic. an·.llrding lo Carmody, 

Happy 21sit 

\ 
\ 
\ 
and that is whorn tht) four marks ol' tlrn Church come in. 
"Th,\ trndilional marks of tho Church 1~xprnss Llwir idealism," slw said. 
(:armody nxplainnd each mark and nxprr.sst•d tb1iir importancn. 
"The unity ol' tlw Church rnsts on tlw will 1111cl nction of c;od. who wants to mak(\ the follownr of' Jesus a sign uf what lovn can do whnn it Sl\ts no limits to what the divine Spirit may makn of it," Carmody sairl. 
Tlw idnal factor of "onCl" pre­snn ts itsnll' "in that il springs dirnctly from what God has made the Church to b,i and how God has guicl11d tfw doveloµmoni. of' tlrn Church historically," Carmody said. 
Tim sncond mar·k. holiness, "comes from Urn triumph uf' God's will for us, which is our prospnring," Carmmiy said. 
Our prospering differs, howcv­tir, but Carmody said that whm, pain ronH1s WP haw to trust that (;od will sen us through and will not ahandori us. 
Through llrn marks that Carmody tliscussed, sho said humans nePd to rnalizc lhal while Goel will 1101 abandon us, Christians need to lead livc·s which involvn rnsponsibility, time to pause, refleclion a11d momnnts to qllcstion. 
This led to tho srcond part of' the lecturn: poople of God. llcrc Carmody l"ocuscd on the laity or communities. 
"More ol"tfrn than not, lay Christians havn lived in middling circumstances, experiencing nd­thcr t.h{) worst of Jlfltsecutions nor the bnst of possible commu­nities," Carmody said. 
Lay Christians comhat largP governments that stress religion as a private issue and intellnctu­:il~ who arn predominately atlrn­1st1c. 
"Lay pnopln ought to make the Iloly Spiril lhrir first counselor," Carmody said. because "tlrny have bncn anointed with thn I lolv Spirit in all the sacraments." • 

ibbam~ 
Leve 
Yal.!Jr Never­Nat,t,ig 



Pasquerilla dies at 72 
Special 10 The Observer _____ 
Frank Pasquerilla, a trustee and bencfar.tor of lhc University and tlrn diairman of' thCl board diud Wndnosday of a hl'art attack at Memorial MNlir,aJ Center. lie was 72. 
l'asquerilla servnd on Notrn Dame's Board of Trustl'Cs from 1984 until :vtay 1997, whon ho was elevated to life trustee. 
Pasquerilla's gifts to Notrn Dame established the Pasqwirilla West and P<tsqunrilla East women's rnsidcncc halls built in 1981 and tlrn Pasqucrilla Centnr, constructnd in 1990 lo house tho University's BOT<: pro­grams. 
Pasqunrilla first becanw asso­

¦ CORRECTION 

A cutline in Thursday's Observer said Michaol Palumbo was the student body president. Palumbo is tho student body vico 
president. 

ciatPd with tho llnivorsily in 1977 when his son, Mark, onrollod as a sludt!IIL Mark, vicn chair and prcsid1mt of Crown American, graduated in I 981, and Frank was awardod an hon­orary doctor of laws dcgrnn from the University in 11)82. 
Pas{fuerilla joined Crown Construction Company in 1<J:iO and was elnct,i<l prnsicfont o/' tlw firm six yr.ars latnr. Ile was the ownor of Crown American llotcls. 
Pasqucrilla received llw Sncretary of Defons1: Award for Outstanding Public Snrvice in 1990. 
lie is survivnd by his wifo Sylvia, son Mark, and daughtnr Leah. 
IIJ'S RDm 



moo 1emE 
A newly remodeled 5 Bedroom house is still available to rent for the Fall semester. 2 full baths, washer and dryer, huge rec room, security system Call now to take a look! 

How to order delivery using your 

fLE)( POfNIS! 
~~-.~
,~~y~\ij~.,'
"fhlc{( e,us:-\-. P'\ua 

1. Call 1-6902 between 6 pm and 1 am 
2. Give us your order 
($5.00 minimum) 

3. We will 'M'!E~~rir your
,11,~<~: fLEX account 
-~ 


.,,-,-~. 
4.WHEN DELIVERED, show us your ID and sign the voucher 

r--------------,--.-,
I Two orders Mozzerella Bread Sticks I --'• $5 .00 ..,. . 
•:~,-~.. (Coupon Required) ,,~~ 
1 

Use your Flex Points : for Delivery 6,rm .. 1 am 
, • Tomass1to's • 
X Call The Huddle at 1-6902 L·---:_ _E•e~99-----..I 

~~-.99 2-Lite;-C-;;-kef'r;;;iu;-t --~ 
(  .  with any Large 1411  Pizza  
I .-.  (Coupon Required)  :..  :  
1  Use your Flex Points  ·.  
1  for ~elivery 6 pm -1 am  
1  •  Tomass1to1s  •  
L  Call The Huddle at 1-6902 ___ ._....., ____ _Expires 511,W,  .J  

ing to increase the pressure on Milosevic with an oil embargo and a message of unmistakable



Sumlllit Cyber Area meets student approval 

continued from page 1 resolve to stop his aggression. By LINDSAY FRANK "Initially I met fitl with some use it," said Birnbaum. Blair met with congressional 
News Writer skepticism about late-night stu­While the goal is to maintain a 
was "pru<l,rnt to update our leaders in the Capitol after pri­den l behavior. But I assured low-key environment. users of 
plans and assessments." vate talks with Clinton. The The recent addilion of Reckers' them thal Lhe student body could the new equipment have to 
From across Europe, a prime minister said it was new Cyber Arna means that stu­handle it." said Birnbaum. observe a :-30-minutc time limit if swarm of VIP jets began deliv­essential that NATO "give the dents can now check e-mail and Originally, the proposed plan other people are waiting and fol­ering presidents and prime clearest possible message of play video games whj)e er~j()ying was limited to the installation of low a sign-up prorndure. ministers of 19 NATO nations will and resolution that their favorite smoothies. accord­the computers. To prevent Many students, however, don't and 23 partner countries to the Milosevic and his polides will ing to Mike Davy, operations Reckers from turning into anoth­think the Cyber Area will last. capital for three days of sum­not prevail. manager of Reckers. er computer lab, the video games "It's hideous. In addition, it mitry bAginning Frirlay. The "lt means we carry on with The overall rnaction to the new were added into the design. will prohably be broken within meeting originally was planned the rampaign that we have equipment has been favorable, "We didn't want to make it a two weeks because of llecknrs · as a 50th anniversary celebra­launched, that we make sure he said. cluster, but a fun place where tendency to attract drunks," tion or NATO's founding. but that that campaign is intrmsi­"So far [the changes] have people ran taku a break from said Jeremy Bauer, a He('.kers the festivities were recast into fied and successful ... and we been pretty well accepted," he studying," said Davy. student employee. morn serious discussions as the make all assessments neces­said. Funding for the project came As rar as additional dovelop­alliance confronted the crisis in sarv to make sun~ WA succeed," Originally planm1d as a cyber from a partnership formed with ments, no more major projects
Bla.ir said. 

Kosovo. cafe, the plan LO install equip­Food Services and Coca-Cola. arc sclrnd u led for Urn II car Washington braced for limou­Robin Cook, the British for­ment had been on the back burn­ThA computers came from the future, although thore is talk of sine gridlock and tight rPstric­eign secretary, said that NATO er until Jason Birnbaum, head of department while the sound adding a couple more televi­
lions in a 100-block downtown "cannot tolerate the rebirth of the campus improvements com­chairs featuring pm-loaded com­sions. The main concern now is 
security zone, including much fascism within Europe. And mittee, Pxpressfld his interest in part discs were designed by getting involv,~d with student of the National Mall. Citv that is what w~ an;, witt1essing 
the project to David Prentkowski, Coca-Cola. The company wanted organizations and groups. 
schools wern LO be closej at the present I.mm. director of Food Services, last to install six of the chairs to form "We've done pretty well this 
Friday and thousands of fedAr­lie echoed Albright's asser­fall. a life-size six-pack configuration, ynar. SUB and somfl of the 
al workers were given the day tion that NATO would not send Through a series of conversa­but only three were installed to classes havn had activities 
off. ground forces into a hostile tions. Birnbaum and f'rentkowski conserve spacn. bore, hut we really want to get 
The summit opens in the fifth environment but did not spell discussed the best methods for "The whole thing is pretty neat morp use out of the stage," said 
week of airslrikcs against out in what circumstances they implementation. and I hope people come out and Davy. 

Diamonds of Qualit}1
-

Engagement Rings & Wedding Bands l 8karat Yellow Gold & Platinum lPersonaUy Design Your Own Engagement Ring 
~ 

Thinking of purchasing a diamond? Choose wisely with information in our complimentary book, Diamonds Magnified, 186 pages, 2nd edition, hardbound. 
~ 

John M~ Marshall's, Inca 
Established 1965 
-

Jeweler / Gemologist / Mineralogist Goldsmith / Platinumsmith 
Telephone: 287-1427 Monday -Friday, lOa.m. to 6p.m. KeyBank Building, Suite #101, South Bend, Indiana 46601 
Yugoslavia, with no sign that bombing has stopped the vio­lence on the ground or the fn1·ced expulsion of ethnic Albanians from Kosovo. 
NATO brought its firepower closer to Mi.losevic, destroying one of his Belgrade homes in an attack that Yugoslav offi­cials prowsted was an attempt tu kill their leader. Milosevic was not inside the house. The United States said the home was a command and control center and that the attack was not an assassination attempt. 
Clinton. eager to repair his impeachment-marred record, is counting on the NATO meet-might be introduced. "Time is our greatest ally." Cook said. "As President Milosevic gets weaker with the passage of time, so too does the strength of our case for returning the Kosovars under international protections." 
NATO leaders came to Washington seeking a new mis­sion for the alliance, which was formed a half century ago to prevent a Soviet invasion of Europe. With that threat removed. the alliance is casting about for a new purpose beyond its traditional collective defense against threats to any member. 


Happy 
Birthday,Martv Qgren1H 

Love, Your Family. 



• Everyone• Everyday 
1

Scottsdale Malt • 299-6063 $1,SO .All Evening Shows :J 6,_ ! 
Sat& Sun Matinees in [Brackets] 
•1
The Faculty (RJ 
Patch Adams (PG) l 
[1 :30] 4.20 7:00 9:20 
11:15)4:106:509:30 !l 
A Bug's Life (G) 
TheDeepEndoftheOcean (PG-13) 
l
[1:20]4:006:30 8:50 
[1 :40) 4:40 7:20 9:40 
Slepmom (PG-13) 
Saving Private Ryan (R)
[1:1OJ 4:157: 10 9:45 
[1:00)4:308:00 

--,----------------------~--~-------------~---------­
hiday, April 23, l999 COMPILED FROM TllE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
¦ ,1H · ·· 1Ew-Bmrr" 
Police arrest teens in Baton Rouge school shooting 
SCOTI.ANIJVII.LE, La. 
Shots rang out ,war a midd!11 school Thursday and a 4-yPar-old girl was hit in tlw t'ittiPk by a hoy who said h1\ was aiming for sonwmw lw argued with Purlin, policn suid, /\ 
14-yPltr-old boy was charg-i•cl with nll1m1ptnd r11tird1•r liir ,tllngrnily opuriing lirn on a rniddln .~dwot i11 suburban Baton Houge. said U. llarrl'll Otwal. spok1\sm,u1 l'or thn East Baton H1111gP l'arish Slmrill"s Otlil'P. Tlui tPm1 and ,m allPgcd ar.complkn. also 14. w1ire arrcstPd hours af'kr thf' shots wPn' lir1•cl f'rom a park 100 yards .iwuy from Scolla11dville Midclln Sdwol. on,. .22-rnlilwr hullt>l hit a 14-war-old l"P11Hd1· stll!knl in tlw dH\Pk as sh,: passed lll'tw1:1•11 buildings. Sh,• was trrn1tnd at a hospi­tal and ndl!:tSPd. 
Bhutan lifts ban on TV 
NEW DHIII. India 
Bhutan is nnding it.s ban on tdevisinn and starling its own rwtwork. finally lowering its guard against outside influ1•nce in the rmnote Buddhist kingdom. Broadcasting will begin .111111• 2. but initially only in the capital Thimphu. a city of 40,000 rnsidenl'i, said tlrn KtHH1s11I wrn:kly. Bhutan's only newspaper. That dat<• marks tlw 25th anniv1wsary of the rnrnnalion of King Jignw SingynWangchuck. lsolat<'d in tlw Himalayas. Bhutan has sought to 1m•sHrvn its culturn. Men and wonwn arn n•quirml to w1mr traditional robe-likn dress. Buildings, public and private. conform to orthodox style, ofl,)n cl1\corawd with religious svmbols. SalelliLe dishes are outlawed, although tlw rule is widely brnaclrnd. Kuensel said tlH1 national ass1!mbly decided in F1•hnwry to 1ind till! ban on tnl1wision and to authorizn llw slate broadcasting company, which opPrall's raclio stations, to start TV transmissions. 
Group pushes for meat irradiation 

WASJIINGTON 
1\ fodPrnl proposal to allow irradiation of 111H·ook1·d 11wals should Im 11xpanded to inrl11dP rnady-to-1•at products likP-hot dogs am! lunr.lwon mPats. a quasi-governmental gnrnp of food safoty nxpPrts said Thursday. "TIH•!'f• is a c]par twn1ilit for irradiation of rPady-to-Pal nwat products," said D1rnnis Olson, <lirl't'.(or of Lill' Utilization Centnr for Agricultural l'roducts at Iowa Stalli Univ1wsily, 
AFP Photo 

This Columbine High School yearbook photo shows Eric Harris, one of two suspects in the school shooting of 14 students and one teacher that were killed Tuesday at Columbine High School in Littleton, Colo. 


Gunmen's video foreshadowed killings 
/\SSOCIATEll PHESS 

LITTLETON, Colo. 
Months before the massacre at Columbine lligh, the two killers made a class-project video depicting them­selves in their trench coats, gunning down athletes in the school hallway, a classmate says. · 
Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold killed and wounded duzcns of students at the school before taking their own lives Tuesday. 
Their spasm of violence was fore­shadowed by several videos they made last fall for a class, classmates said. 
In one video, "they had their friends pretend to be the jocks, and they pre­tended to be the gunmen shooting them," high school junior Chris Reilly told the Denver Hocky Mountain News. 
"They were a little upset they couldn't show their video to the whole school. But th.ire were guns in evmy seen~; of the video, so you can't show that. 
School officials said they hadn · t yet determinml wlwther such a vidPo was made, and the teacher who taught the class rnfused to comnrnnt. But anoth11r student said the pair's video projects were uniformly disturbing. 
"They always were the same kind of videos," said Eric Veik, 16. "They always wore trench coats. They always wanted to be the intimidators. the good guys out to get the bad guys." 
At school, the pair were known as members of a group of outcasts who called themselves the "Trenchcoat Malia," for the long black coats they wore, regardless of the season. Klebold and Harris openly admired Hitler. wore German crosses to school. and played violent video games for hours at a time. 
The disturbing thing, to some, is that Klebold and Harris came from respect­ed, middle-class families. 
Thomas and Susan Klebold lived in a home worth nearly $400,000, a mod­ernistic cedar-and-glass structure with matching guest house tucked between two huge stone formations on a rural road. 
Klebnld's father, Thomas. 52, a retired geophysicist who consulted with companies exploring gas and oil, now runs a mortgage management busin11ss from his home. His mother, 50, has worked for the Colorado com­munity-college system for years, help­ing disabled students gain access to education. 
"We're all scratching our heads right now," said Michael Briand, who knows Ms. Klebold from his work as a com­muni ty-developme n t consultant at Arapahoe Community College. 
Ile said the elder Klebold is known as a liberal, in favor of gun control. Ms. Klebold is a sensitiv11 listener. 
"As far as I can tell, this family was utterly, utterly normal," Briand said. "They did everything right. But some­how the pain and anger was too deep, and they didn't see it or couldn't reach it. This has got to bn a pervasivci thing in our society if it can reach this far, into families like this." 
Harris moved to Littleton in I99(, from Plattsburgh, N.Y., wlwrn his father, Wayne llarris. was an /\ir Force pilot. 
In Littleton, neighbors said, tlw fami­ly appeared quiet. Tim 11ld1ir Ilarris, now retired, and his wifn, Kath11rin11, would wave across tlw l'Pnr11 whil11 out in the yard but madn littln n!Tort to socializ11 with neighbors. 
riling l.lw nLmwrous rPcalls of contaminatnd rPady-t.11-1•at prncluds. Olson is part of' the Food Sal'Ply Consortium. <')-;tablislwd by Co11grpss in l 1)88 at tlw Univorsity of' 1\rka11sas, Iowa StalP U11iv1irsity and Kansas StatP U11ivPrsity lo invnstigatn mnat ancl food safi•ty. S1,v1•ral rompani11s havP be1m forced Lo rPrall llwir lu1wlwon nwals and hot dogs in rnrPnl 1110111.hs clue to possibln contamination hy J.islPrin 1111mocytog1mns bacl1!ria. 

¦ INDIA 




Militia kills 12 lower-caste people 
A'isocJi\TED P1mss ltolds when he heard gun­The militia has targeted ed the Hindu nationalist-Ind fire. During the wheat-sow­Dalits, which means federal government to fire SINDANI ing season, the villagers "oppressed ones," the low­the state government. run Backed by upper-caste often work all night to irri­est group in the hierarchy of by a socialist party, last landlords seeking revenge, a gate and tend. crops. Hinduism. Most Dalits are month. The federal govern­private militia stormed into "We ran, Those who could poor, uneducated form ment said the slate had dis­
• 
a. village in eastern lndia, not run were kiHtid," h~, laborers.. intograuid into t.otal lawless­killing 12 people, police said said. "Whoever remained in Wednesday's attack was ness. Thursday. the village, when we came the sixth major caste-related But the state government 
Members of the Ranbir back, we saw lhem finished massacre in Bitrnr State in was restored latm· bt•causP Sona militia on Wodnosday oil" thn past six months. Last Prime Minister Atal Bihari entered the village of On Thursday, bloodied month, communist guerril­Vajpayee's party did not 
• 
Sindani. 530 miles sot1theast bodies of a woman and a 9~ las struck in the neighboring hawi the support for neces­of Nnw Dolhi, and opened year-old girl lay in a di.rt .Johanabad district, hor<' sary parlianwntary ratifica­fire, said T.P. Sinha, a local street as villagers crowded nearly 200 people belonging tion of the foderal takeover police official. around staring. Women cov• to lower classes and 54 of Bihar. 
Tho massacre was likely ered their faces and wept, upper-caste Hindus have India's cast,\ system is an 
in retaliation for the killing and families prepared to hmm killed since 1981. age-old Hindu social struc­ut' 35 upper-caste Hindus by cremate the bodies of the The communist groups ture that can determine communist rebels last dead. have been trying to org,mize anything from whern a month in Biha.r, India's most More than 300 police laborers in Bihar to improve lower-caste person works to lawless state, whern acaste· fanned otit through the their condition and secure where he livos, worships or war has erupted, police fiel«:ls searching for the them land, a chal]enge to drinks water. Though said. killers. Police have been the social order that the India's constitution outlaws 
Raj Vanshi ).'adav, wi}Q combing tho at'.~a fQr tho . Ranbir Sena has answered discrimination by caste, the survived the overnight past n:wnth to track 'down with' violence. system remains prevalent in attack, was working in J}l,e. .Ranbirl5(?.nn,n.ctivi-;ts.f> · 1:he ea?tekUlings prpmpt· rural aroas. 
/)ow 
A.MEX: 751U8

}ONES 
+7.79 
Nasdaq: 2561.6 l 

1(1518 NVSK +72.'i~ 
~ 

640.1)7 
+7.2h 

S&P 500: US8.83 
Compo.~ill•
+22.71 
Volume:

+!45.76 9111,900,000 
VOLUME LEADERS rn!ttl'~ti~ nr11:1u '~1nl'1.t:mr S ,i,1~ l'Blrl 
Jlll.J,t.P\H'Uflk !JU.I. . 8,l>tJ -t-.4.'¾425 .J 1.Hk INJTl.f Ptll' INF' +~.Z.f t.1.0625 hl."O Ml( JHl~l1tl C.'llftl1 \,tSII ~.-uv +2.~400 K4.IJ-I K,\Rf Ml lllUM WU' UlrnR +h.\.'}l -t7.(Jl{j() l'},(lJ
n,,·ow,.,-, l'\4~ C\Cn ... u,, +5 252.S. I IJ.19 
OltAU.f Ctrkl' onct +6,98 +l.{,"'~() 2~M1 ~ll!\i Ml('t\()!,','\l t'.M SUNW -1-U,bl -t,-],.9400 6.i.H lllOC(l'M INTI. RtnS .'1..U ,.8710 !UO I k11"5SON I.M·i\lllt LR1c·\· -1.'H •.5()25 2~.56 \.tlMrlfW,\Rf. t:,nu• Ll1WH +15..lti +2.MKOO 21.HH 

page6 The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS Friday, April 23, 1999 




NDFD 
continued from page l 
dies and halogen lamps," Antonucci said. Howevf'f, thr. in-between time is just as busy. "/\ shift shows up for duty at 
6:30 a.m. sharp, and by 7 a.m. they are in uniform and ready for the work day." Antonucci said. · 
Once dressed and ready for tl1e day, Urn men bPgin their seem­ingly never-ending process of campus inspeclions. 
"We inspPct a set group of' buildings each month," Antonucci said, and it takes the department 10 months to get through all 135 buildings on r.ampus. In addition. all 55 cam­pus ele\'ators are tested to ensure they work properly, Antonucci said .. 
"Every Thursday all medical equipment is checked, replaced, repaired or rcplenishPd," Antonucci added. "The engines are cleaned everv time they return from an ·emergency response -they make sure it is in service." 
Construction presents a con­stant source of activity for the department as well. 
"Every area of construction or area being renovated has an ele­ment of our fire protection sys• tern in it. We constantly have to disarm these systems so con­struction can take place," Antonucci added. 
If an alarm does go off some­whne on campus, special sys• terns aid the department in effi­cient responses. Not only does each building on eampus have its own telegraph alarm bell in the fire house, but has technological advantages as well. 
"Our alarm warning system is uniq11r, because i.n the library and Grace Hall we have systems that report to a central comput­er. 'fhp, computer uses touch­graphics, which gives us an exact blueprint of I.he building and room affeeted." Antonucci said. There arc 50 other systems that report to the central com­put('r that give the fighters char­acter descripLions and nol graphics. 

In an instance where a local fire department can not handle a particular blaze on its own, the Notre Dame Fire Department is called, Antonucci said. 
"Clay Township Fire Department called on us when they needed help with the Inn at Saint Mary's fire," he said .• 
Despite all of the work. the firelighters rarely complain. 
"I think it is a cool job. I like getting in the trucks and all that stuff. You can still be a kid in a way," said firefighter Andrew Myer. 
Antonucd's enjoyment comes from the feeling he contributes to the community, he said. 
"I barn d!~ep feelings about this University and I have a sense of service towards it. I enjoy taking care ofmy community," he said. 
But while a fireman's day may be linished, Antonucci's nights are just beginning. 
"The state requires lire fight­ers to involve themsolves in con­tinuing education classes," Antonucci said. 
For example, ongoing con­struction on campus encouraged tho department to educate a 
Focus 
continued from page 1 
Now, as leaders of the 19 NATO member nations gather in Washington, D.C., for a confer­ence celebrating the 50th anniversary of the alliance, they face questions regarding the cri­sis in Kosovo and the increasing­ly-common types of international conOict that il represents. The bombing campaign in Yugoslavia is the first military action NATO has taken outside Its own bor­ders, and has been seen as a departure from the alliance's tra­ditional focus on defense. 
It is also the first time such international action has been taken against a sovereign state without backing from the U.N. Security Council 
NATO's shift from Western mil­itary alliance to regional police­man must be successful in Kosovo if NATO is to maintain its credibil­ity as an international actor, many have said. 
"The world will grow dramati­cally more dangerous if NATO does not impos1! its will," said for­mer Spc,aker of the House Newt Gingrich last week at Stepan Center. "It is very important for the most powerful nation in the world to walk very softly and carry a very big stick." 
Other national leaders have been more blunt. 
Why lug your 
Call 277-5555 for free pick up at your room -on or off-ca1npus. Boxes Plus 
• tJ-1e lowerpriced shipper• 
5622 Grape Road -Wilshire Plaza Bring your belongings and this ad to Boxes Plus and receive a 10% discount. 
"If we do not achieve our goals in Kosovo, NATO is finished as an alliance," said Senator Joseph Bidon to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee this week. 
While that prediction seems dire lo some, there is general agreement that Kosovo will be a significant factor in the future of the alliance. 
"I think the future of NATO is uncertain," said Richard Conroy, a visiting assistant professor of government and international relations. "lt actually depends partly on the outcome of the crisis in Kosovo." 
If NATO accomplishes its goal and the Serbs stop their offensive and allow ethnic Albanians to return home, the alliance should remain careful in embracing its conflict-resolution role, according to Conroy. He pointed to difficul­ties the U.N. experienced after peacekeeping success in the late 1980s. Governments turned to the international body for help, and its peacekeeping efforts became overextended. Conroy warned against NATO putting itself in that position. 
"If NATO is successful in its Kosovo efforlo,, and the jury is still way out on that, it should proceed with caution," he said. 
There appears to be mixed evi­dence about NATO's prospects for the future. Three nations ­Poland. Hungary and the Czech Republic -joined the alliance in March and several more are applying for membership. No stales have publicly discussed dropping out. and. in a rare show of solidarity, all 19 NATO coun­tries support the bombing cam­paign, although Grep,ce has said it would not participate. 

On the other hand, NATO's credibility as an effective interna­tional actor is being challenged by the totalitarian leader of a small European nation. If Milosevic is not defeated, some say, other rogue dictators will take advan­tage of NATO's perceived weak­ness. 
"We have put our marker down and we had better win," Gingrich said. "Or the world will be a much more dangerous place." 
The New York Times con­tributed to this report. 
ATTENTION JUNIORS, SENIORS & 5TH YEARS ITO BEJ 
RESIDENT ASSISTANTS NEEDED: 
Holv Cross College is looking tor afew good men and women to serve as RAs. 
Mature men and women are needed in a coed environment of freshmen and sophomores in a program of approximately 164 resident students. 
Live across the street from Notre Dame while being an RA. 
The successful candidate will receive room and board and the satisfaction of assisting young men and women as they begin their college careers. 
Holy Cross College is a two-year, liberal arts college with atransfer-intent curriculum and a population of approximately 500 students. 
If interested, please contact: 
Mr. Chris Ruhe Director of Residence Lite Holy Cross College P.O. Box 308  *  HOLY CROSS  
Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-8409  COLLEGE  
cruhe@hcc-nd.edu  Right for you. Right from the start.  

:_1\l-t, -~ SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
Institute for 



Spiritual Leadership 
AUGUST 16-17, 1999 LAKESIDE, MICHIGAN 

Strengthen your understanding, skills and commit­ment as a spiritual leader. Workshops include: 
• 
promoting Christian service 

• 
praying together 

• 
facilitating dynamic Bible studies and retreats 

• 
connecting justice and liturgy 


Open and free lo all Saint Mary's students, faculty, administrators and staff. 
Come to an Informational meeting April 27 at noon or 6:00 p.m. In 158 Regina, or call 284-5391 to register! 
team capable of handling high angle rope rescues on buildings such as the Dome where scaf­folding soars higher than the truck ladders can reach. Additionally, the sPven miles of tunnels underneath Notre Dame's campus required the department to create a team specialized in conf'ined space fires, and Antonucci ovcrsl~es a certified open water dive team to manage the 81 acres of lakes on the campuses. 
"We had a rescue boat and two divers on hand for the Fisher R<'gatta," he said. 
After all the continuing educa­tion classes are finished for the night, the firemen often gather in a common room to eat or watch television b<1fore retiring to their own private rooms for the night. 
In addition to the four fighters 
tit 
S.\ I \:T 

living in the building every night, two priests reside there as well, which is representative of the building's history. 
"This building was constructed in 1945, and at that time the brothers were responsible for almost every facet ol'this campus -including the fire department.," Antonucci said. "The ground floor uf' this building was a park­ing garage. and the broth1~rs that operated the power plant and the fire department lived upstairs." 
Notre Dame's own firn depart­ment existed long before the construction of the current build­ing. Although Antonucci does not know the exact date ol' the department' s founding, them is a photo dated from 1900, wlwrn Notre Dame firefighters arP lighting a major lire, he said. 
4TH ANNUAL 








VIEWPOINT 
Friday. April 23, I 999 ----------------------
-----------------------------page 7 
¦ GUEST COLUMN 
Kosovo and the Future of NATO Credibility 
THE OBSERVER 
Nt1rlll DAMI 01+1.:t, P.O. Box Q. Noire Oame. IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
1999-2000 GENERAL BOARD 
EilllOR-IN-CIIIEf 
M,d,t!I, Knop., 

MANAl,IN<= EOll'OR 11\JS!NFSS M~NAG~R 
M. ~lunnon R",m l);wc: Rogcm 
A.\SfSt'I\Nl MANA<i.lN(,i En1n1M (..rn r.1 l•t"cdlc 
NtW'i f.1>1 l'OM .......Tun I Ot!::111 ., ..., Hrv.in I rn1 Vrt:WNltNI' fnrron ...... ,Colll·t·n C:urghen t\o DKlilf;N MANAC:En ... ... ..Ke-nn("th Kr~irnev SPORT\ Em rou . . Bri.111 1':e~,lcr sv,TFMS MANACfiR .. . ......M,chod Rev,;, sn~Nl'. FllfTOI( .... Mid1.1<.•I V:111cg,,... C.ONTlmI.trR ..... .. .........Tirno1hy Linc SAIN I MARY\ Elli !OR ......C:ulkcn McC.,rthy GRAr1111.s Ei)ITOR......................... -.... Joc M11clb P11ou, Ft>JIWI .................... Kn·m f).,1L1m W1.11 ADMIN"rR~lOR....................... Erik Ku,hm 
lh.,: ( lh,dv._-1 I\ ,h.: md\"P\"Hd,·111 u~-w,p,11·1,:r l't1hli~hi..·d l1y ,h\.' ",[u~k·m, ,,r 1hs: UniY1.:ni1y ofN,1m· I)mm.: d_u l..1, .rnJ .'l,11111 M.ir,.... ( :1,ll\:~C, Ji ,lnL·, 11!11 ll!.'(\.''-\1!rih· tdli,,'<,\ 1h~• p11ll\.i1,., 111 th1.: .nl111111i.~1r.11irn1 11r either i1mi1uti011. !7w JlCWJ; 1, ,~•J>1•r1nl ,1 ...1uut,11-I\• .m(! uhw, nnlr ,1'-jH1,.,1l,ll", Un,i.t,:11L·tl ,·tli10,;,,1,.. rq,r~-.c:111 1h,: opinion 111' tlil" m.1jority ,)I tht."' hi11m 111-(.lud. M.111.1F111~ I dirnr. A"h!.111! M.m.1gmg I d11ot .11HI d"'-p.u1nie111 \.,.litm~. Cn111nien1.1rics. h:ncr~ .in,l '11!1111111~ j•h.:wm ihv \·ii'\~h ti! 1h,· .mthru, .1111! nnl !H.'<.v-..,.irily thm,t' nl"I Ill' ( )h...erwr. \'ilw1,n.1nt ··r,1ct· I.\ ;l\';1il.1h!c !() .1!! m1.ml11•,.. 111 ,lw N,itt~· ll.11nd' 111\T M.11~·· ..... 11nu11111ury .11hl 10 .,II t~•.,~lw, l'ht• frcl' t'liJ'fC..'\\1(111 •0r v.1ryin~ nrintnns 1hrn11~h ft·lleh ,._ i.·nw111.1J!t"I 
l!1.lllil1Jing The Observer 
hlnor-i11•<:l1il:"f t,.ll -4')42 Offi1:c Ma11.tg(:r/Ccnc;-ral !nforrn,nirn1 6.11-:FI M.m.1};111~ b!11cirJA,-.1 ..1.1n1 Ml'. 6 \ I -4',41 i\u\im-..,., Offi,L'e C,,ll-5.> 1J New\ l,)l-'-i.~2J Atlvcni... ing 6.l 1-6900/R840 V1L·,~poitlf fr\! -">.~OJ S\1:0.ft"11h/W~b A(lmini\tr;iror 6.~ 1-88~9 \porr-. (, \I 4~4.l I''." 631-6927 '.\tt"IW (di 4~4Cl Ad E·M.,il olu('rver(dld:irwi11.c..:.nd.ed,1 S.,inr M.in··;\ 611-4.124 Ncw,F.-M,il ohu-rvt"r.ob.1,ncw~. f@mf.edu l'lmtn (,il-8767 Vi<Wl'OiiH E-M;1il oh'iervcr.vkwpi1inr. J@11tl,1.·du 
~,w,1,,,t•d br c~ntt ,.,,,,_.. f,et,.,..., :'\il'Ol<I"""" 
11\J.ti ,1,-Tctt~ 

Thn rt•lplJrations planrw<l for this wrnik­!'l1d's ;rmilwrsary of' N/\TO have b,•Pn dra­matically owrsh;tdow1id by the war in l\11s1ivo. But ratlwr than b1!moan thn fact llwt tllf' party's ovor. Clinton ancl his lilr­l'ign policy t,~a111 shoulrl wdcomn tlw chanc1• lo hold a serious working summit aml !IS!' it as an opporllfnity to corrncl llw misrak1·s that lmv,~ aln~ady lwPn made lo l'onclurt Sl'l'ious planni111-; for the long-l<'rm stability of' tlw Balknns and llw fuwrn ol' !\J\T( l and to show tlw world that NATO n•mains n•solull' and unitNI in pursuing iLs g-uals in Kos11vo. 
Mark Jubulis 
Tlw stakns in tlm curr«ml conflict an• far grcaL1!r than thn status of Kosovo. Slwrctary ( ic;nnral or NI\TO .lavic~r Solana said that Kosovo is a c!t•fining mmnnnl "for tlw kind of Jo:t1ropt> w,~ wish to livfl in." and tho Los /\ngi•l!'s Thlll)S writPs that if'N/\TO fails in Kosovo. "1wtjust iL'i militury crmlibility but iLo; vnry r1•as1m fol' twing will bn quns­timwd." 
Tlw last point may bP exaggnrutml (no N/\TO country wants t.o h~uve tlw allianc,i. and many morci statns want lD join), but thorn is 1m qum;tion that th11 presrn1l crisis will haw major ramilicaUons l'or the future of'NI\TO wnll into tlw next century. ll will d1•tm·mi1w llw status or NATO's crBclibility in tlw 1•yes oft.hn world, U.S. critnria for intervening abroad and will play a largn roln in c!ntnrruining tlw futurn co11rso of U,S.-!lussian rPlations. 
But tl111s1i stak1is do nut alLnr th1i fact that NATO cn·dihility would have bc>1m d1!strov1id had NI\TO failnd to follow through on il'i lhrnal'i and lookPd on us 1\liloscvic 1:01ul11ct1id his Nlrnic dmrnsing campaign with impunity. 
Sincn dnciding to act. howPVf"r, NATO's credibility has been weakm1Pd because it lo11ks as though we reluctantly stumbhid into a war without a dmir sensH of purposfi. General Clark h..L'i complainnd that he has bmm forcnd to wag1i a "politically con­strai111•cl campaign." U.S. policy 1m1knrs havn ignored Lhe so-r.allcd "Powell Doctrinn," which states that we must use all necessary force to achi,1vn dearly <lofinorl o~j1ictiV(\S. lnslnad. we hav11 had dillkulty articulating a diiar sc·,t of goals and we have not appli<id the appropriate nwans to meet our o~j(lctives. If NI\TO cxpectnd things to I urn oul the way th11y have, thPn clearly them would be more signs of advanced planning, such m; a rnlhif' actio11 plan and rcsourcc\s, both of which should have been on their way to Albania a long time ago. 
Wn must. admit that our bombing has not had the desired result. Milosevic has gained grnatnr support within his country, and the situatinn of tlrn more than 500.000 refugees has wonmned dramatically. NATO says that a succcssf'ul bombing campaign requires paticmce, hut too many livns of Albanian refugees arc at stake while we wait for Milosevic to back down. 
In the meantimn, Serb forces arc destroy­ing villagns in Kosovo so th11 refugees will have no homes to return to afler the fight­ing coasos. J\t the summit, we should at lea...<;t put lhn issue of !{round troops back on the\ tabln. It was foolish to broadcast our intentions to Milosevic us we wage war. The administration's insistence that Wll arc not even considering ground troops has givcm Milosevic the uppm· hand in control­ling th11 situation on the ground in Kosovo. 
The summit should also be US!~d to prc­parn a plan for long-term stability in the Balkans and anv vision of a stable li.tturc for the region must exclude Milosevic. lfwe reach an agrccm1mt with him wn will be setting ourselves up for failure because he is sum to cause trouble again; his reliance on a pnlicy ol'war is directly tied to the maintcnanc11 of his dictatorial regime. 
Madolnine Albright claims that NI\TO's actions am meant to send a signal that eth­nic cleansing will not be tolerated, but tho 
only way to get that message ar:ross would 
be to indict Milosevic as a war criminal. 
Hegarding plans for NATO's new strate­gic mission, wn should expect NATO to scale buck it.s ambitious goab for "out of arna" missions du<1 to the initial ditnculties in the Kosovo campaign. /\s NATO vontur1's further l'rom its core mbsion of defense for iw rnemb(~rs we arn likely to snc greater fis­sures mnergn ,vithin tho alliance as it will bo moni diflicult for 19 democracies to agroe on distant security thrnals. 
In any event, NATO will b<i bogged down in the Balkans for years and will lhcreforo be less eager to tackle new problems bnyond NATO's borders. NATO's aLtompt to "dp,grade" Milosevic's military capacity has also dPgradnd rolations botwoen the West and Hussia. Tho bombing campaign has resulted in a surge of anti-American senti­ment in Hussia. ll.ocent events have recroat­od an adversarial view of NATO in the eyes of most Russians, and have insulted Russian politicians who feel unjustly excluded from European security aflairs. 
Russia reacted to the bombing by break­ing all ties with NATO, and the U.S. must dn all it can to make sure that this rupture does not become permanent. We should encourage Hussian efforts to !ind a settle­ment and include Russian troops in any peace-keeping force that will be imple­mentl-ld later. 
But Russia must also meet us halfway. Hussia is reacting sharply tu the bombings because it feels excluded by NATO, but Russia is also isolating it<;olf from the rest of' Europe by lending rhetorical support to Yugoslavia. When Hussiajoins Belarus in condemning NATO "aggression" and refus­es to condemn Milosevic's policies of ethnic cleansing, what docs this say about sharnd values between Hussia and the West? 
The most alarming aspect regarding the extreme rhetoric coming from Moscow is that it is not limitocl to radical-, in the Duma. but also comes f'rom officials such as Fornign Minislflr Ivanov. He recently pub­licly accused the West or committing "geno­cide" against the Serbs and suggested that NATO oflicials who plannnd Lim attack 
should be charged with war crimes. 
Such rhetoric is ollcn excus1id 1Ls playing to domestic audienccs in Hussia, but it is truly harmful bncausc it inllamns anti­Wcstfirn sentiment and further cmboldm1s Milosnvic by showing him that hn has strong friends in Hussia. Tlw West should make it dear to Bussia that it is not con­structive for gov11rnnrnnt ollkials to spn•ad Belgradn's propaganda. This gap in our perceptions or evcnLs in Kosovo must b1i overcome I.Jr.fore Hussia and tlrn West can cooperate in pcarn-ko,iping 011c1\ tlw con­flict has 1md1!d. 
Finally, Hussian foars ol' an "aggrnssiv1t NATO must be assuaged boforc NATO can achieve its vision of a "Europe whole and free" by llXpanding further to inducln new democracifls in Eastorn Europn. Although this issun will not be decidnd at thn summit. future directions for expansion arc1 alrnady visiblo due to NATO's futurn involwmwnt in the Balkans. 
This crisis reveals tho strategic impor­tancl-l of I lungary, and that a land corridor will havn to bn 1~stab!ished linking I I ungary to the rest o[' NATO means admitting oither Slovakia or Slovenia. And if Homania and Bulgaria cooperate in !,'l"anting air spacP to NATO planns, thnse two countries will expect some sort of rnward in th,~ form of an acceleration of NI\TO expansion. NI\TO will remain the main guarantor of security in Europn so long a.s thn U.N., tho OSCli and the WEU am unable to do the job. WH must remHmber that NATO is involved in Bosnia becausl-l the U.N. had failod mis<1rably in its poaco-keeping mission. NI\TO must suc­ceed in Kosovo with ils crndibility int.act if' it is to retain the strength. cohesion and con­fidence nncnssary to lullill ils task in the next e11ntury. Anything less would bn good news for the next dictator d11t1irminod to challenge the peacl'. 
Mark .lubulis is an adju11c1 assislant pro­fessor ofgooernmenl. 
71w uiews expressed in this mlwnn are those ofthe author and nol necessarily those of'l1w Obseruer. 
¦ DOONESBURY 
IT~NOIA/ ArT!!R 2:oop,,11.,
AN!? 7HIGIS TH&ffelt?eCF 
l(JHICH 15Mf~NFRATM!WlRA­

fi<AT /?Ot(j-t?K£HOI.JS8/ 
IJ/T!ONAUYSJlR, 50IF>al/,/JOI<
•PUBYA •8'JSH!!; OU? 
C,4!?fft!UY, YOIJM4YStfe
'f?A7l:RN/7Y./ 

AC7l14l 56-VSCF BR0­



71-1/fl<HOOC,.,, '­
GARRY TRUDEAU 

l,()()K.'ON 0CXJl?E:',E/me/tOOFl STAN!?CLeAK,
S0Mt:avl3 ~Yt)Vt3.I
HUR/..-/Nt:3/
I \ 

¦ QuoTE OF THE DAY 
,More than an end to 
war, we want an end to the beginnings of all wars.' 
-Franklin D. Roosevelt 



-----------~---------~ 
------------------------------------------1111111 






VIEWPOINT 
page 8 -------------------------
------------------Friady, April 23. 1999 
¦ GuEsT CowMrJ 
Violating Serb Sovereignty 
Kosovo is universally recognized as sov­Kurdistan, Somalia, Bosnia, Croatia. ereign Serbian territory. Is NATO's inter­Libnria, Haiti, Rwanda, Zaire, Albania and vention in Kosovo. therefore, a violation of K<>sovo; the exceptions wt;re the Iraqi international law? invasion of Kuwait. Yugoslavia in Hrn 
Ni\TO's action certainly is intervention Bosnian conf1id and Libya's role iu the in the internal affairs or a sovereign st.ate. Pan-Am bombin)a(.l ln other words, the But tlw days of' absolute' inviolability of Slll'.urity Council has incrPasingly defined sovnrnignty, if they ever existed, have refugee nows, and domeslic disorder gen­passed. It is by now wnll established, in erally, as grounds for international action. morality and in law, that nations am Hut while the Security Council has accountable to ntlrnr nations for massive ddined Kosovo as an inlr.rnational prob­human rights violations within their hor­lem, it did not spm:ilically authorize the dc1rs. current bombing cam-
Evcrn thP classic paign throughout formulators ol' Serbia. Nor is it .likely international law to; both Hussia and argued, on occasion, China will use their
Alan for 11 right of' veto powt>r to prevent "humanitarian inter­the establishment of a vention." For nxam­precedent that might
Dowty
plP, the 18th-century conceivably be appfo~d Swiss jurist Vaw~I 
----========-----one day to Chechnya
held that interven­-or Tibet. Docs this tion was permissible mean, therefore, that "when persecution is carried to an inlol­the internalional community cannot act erable degree, when it becomes a case of f'orcefully to stop this humanitarian evident tyranny, against which all Nations tragedy? may give help tu an unfortunate people." The international community may not Some modc>rn theorists argue the sover­be able to act, in this instance, through eignly of a state no longer exists when a the preferred channel of UN enforcement government attacks, rather than protects, powers. But this does not invalidate the its nwn citizens. broader, prior grounds of humanitarian 
Would anyone claim that Hitler could intervention. As Michael Walzer argued in have murdered Jews with impunity so "Just and Unjust Wars" over 20 years ago, long as he limited himself to Jews within national sovereignty should not stand in German borders? The humanitarian the way "when the violation of human interests of mankind have, since the rights ... is so terrible that it makes talk of Holocaust, been embodied in international community or self-determination ... seem treaties such as the Genocide Convention, cynical or irrelevant, that is, in cases of by which signatory ---------------enslavement or mas-states promise to pre­sacre." vent and to punish Such intervention "acts committed with would still need to intr.nl to destroy. in meet the standards wholr. or in part, a for a just war: just national. ethnic, racial cause. comparative or rnligious group" -justice, right inten­definition that clearly tion, probability of lits the massacrns and success, proportion­mass expulsions of ality and last resort. Albanians in Kosovo. Each of us will make 
Bul cvet) without the our own judgments humanitarian justifica­about the applicabil­tion, the imposition of I ity of these stan­huge rnfugec flows on 
dards to the Kosovo 
.

l
ot wr countrws creates1 
intervention. We an intlmiational right 
may also reach the of'intcrvention. A 
conclusion that country that has dis­

action to prevent
®~
turbed the peace, sta­
genocide is in this bility and well-being of, 
case justifiable -as its neighbors by forcin I do myself -with­its own citizens to nee out subscribing to has, m essence, 
••• the means by which int11rnationalized its 
intervention is being own domestic affairs. 
carried out. I partic­According to recog­
ularly doubt lhe nizod principles of 
reliance on air international law, it 

power to correct bnars responsibility for, 
injustices being per­damages innicted, and 
petrated on the other states may act to 
ground. correct the situation. 
Some will point out Such acti_on _dons not I 
that in previous neccssanly 111volve the , 
cases of genocide in use of forcP, but nei­
our time ­ther is force excluded. 
Cambodia, Bosnia, The United Nations 
Hwanda-the Charter f!mpowers the 
inlcrnatiunal com­Securitv Council to 
munity did not react identify "threats to 
forcefully. This is peacn and socurity" true, but that dops and to use its Chapter VII enfon:ement not necessarily mean that intervention is powers -including military force -to the wrong course now. It is in part a bad resolwi them. These powers were invoked conscience aboul Bosnia and Rwanda that only twice during the Cold War period, has invigorated the Westf'rn response to against South Africa and Southern this challenge. The international commu­Hhodnsia. Both cases involved interven­nity is engaged in a long and diflicult tion in domestic conflicts. Thll S!lcurity process of establishing and enforcing 
Council determined. in other words, tha.t international norms under which massive 
the racist regimes in these countries con­crimes against humanity wili be averted; stituted "a threat to international peace the early steps in this process will 
and security," and accordingly invoked inevitably be partial and imperfect. 
mandatory sanctions. 
Since 1991, the Security Council has Alan Dowty is a professor ofgovern­
identified threats to international peace ment and a fellow in the Kroc institute for and security and invoked Chapter VII in International Peace Studies. another thirteen cases. In len ofthese The views expressed in this column are thirteen cases the threat wmr essentially those ofthe author and not necessarily internal in origin. (The cases were Iraqi those ofThe Observer. 

¦ GUEST COLUMN 

The European Angle 
"We intend to draw NATO into a to what tlwir N/\TO military strate­ground war." Thes(J chilling words gists want (naval interdiction to prn­were spoken by Notre DamP students vent resupply of potroloum dnpots playing the role of Serbia's govern­destroyed from tlrn air), but that is a ment in a simulation of the Kosovo far cry from hancn leaving NATO, as crisis. They shocked ewryone in the it did in 1966. Despitn concerns about room. Other students playing the roles a close war, Italy provides bases from of the U.S. 11.nd the ma_jor Europ11an which Ni\TO planes fly. There's powers had just threatened a ground strong pro-Serb sentiment in Gnincn. attat:k if Serbia did not halt its terror but the government continues to sup­campaign against ethnic Albanians in port NATO actions. Kosovo. The coopera­
lf the real Serbian !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! lion includes 
government of' n<>w partnnrs. Slobodan Milosevic Poland, th(!


Andrew 
welcomes escala-Czech HPpublic tion, there is also and Hungary the real question of just join!!d the
GOuId whether NATO's other 16 NATO strategy makes countries on sense, and Serbia's March 12. Even government does the countri1is have reasons to whose NATO contemplate more war. First, Serbia's membership was put off are support-military situation looks good for now. ing tlrn alliance. Bulgaria, which bor-The air attacks have gone on since ders Serbia and whos,• clernocraticallv March 24, but Serbian air defenses elected government still wants to be · remain substantially intact. Milosevic admitted to NATO and the Euro1wan rarely activates his air defcnsr, sys-Union, put itsnlf at risk by lr-tting terns, so NATO pilots can't !ind them. NATO use its airspace. NATO's deci-They still endanger NATO's attempts sion to expand to the cmst without a to fly the necessary low-altitude formal role for Hussia is having seri­f1ights. The absence of a ground ous consPquences: Hussia is torn assault so far and its unlikely prospect between rPasserting its status as a in the short term givns Milosevic's great power with intnrnsts in south-forces lime to dig in to fortilied posi-eastern Europn and making sum that tions in mountainous terrain. it has intnrnational linancial support. 
Second. refugees suit Milosevic's NATO should /Je open lo Hussinn par-military aims. The more than (100,000 ticipation in this operation. since it.s Albanian Kosovars forced out or their 11ery fragile democracy needs a borJs/ homeland cannot support a NATO ofinternalional conjidence. invasion. Instead, the refugees could Ironically, Milosevic has bPttPr pro­be an obstacle. Thousands of alliance paganda w,1apons for tlw West than troops are tied down caring for and other countries. By prnparing for a protecting the refugees and cannot ground war, Milos,wic stokr.s l'Pars or prepan1 for lighting. Hundreds of bloodslwd and could turn WPstnrn thousands of people arc displaced public opinion against involvPnwnt. within Kosovo itself, mainly into the lie won some opportunistic support probable lines ofa ground assault. from fonrn1r communists in Hussia NATO will have few gond options once and Belarus, but most Slavs rnmain Kosovo is occupir,d by strategically-lukewarm to his calls for unity. This placed defensive arrangements and could changl' depnnding on how tlw masses of Albanian Kosovars, West deals with tlrn rngion al'tPr tlw hostages on their own land. war. 
Third, Milosevic's domestic political NATO's mission was orn:n said to bn situation is strongnr than ever. keeping tlrn Hussians out, tlw Before 1989, Serbia was the freest American~ in and tlw Cormans down. country in the region and the closest Now it has to k(!C'Jl thn Anwricans and to the West, but since the !'all of com­l'.uropeans togdlrnr and thP Hussians munism Milosevic has ground down out of troublo. Tlw f'urtlwr mission of emerging democratic instilutions and limiting what states like SPrbia do to used them as corrupt supports for an civilian populations is a challmiging authoritarian systmn. Tho war is only task for which NATO countrins should strengthening the curront rngimo. prnparn more thoroughly. Tlw para­Milosevic has continued his attacks on mount goal must be to prot<:d and opposition politicians and journalists encourage new democracies and and has tightened state censorship. growing ncunomies in soutlrnastcirn Among the populace at largo, NATO and central Europn. Ttw grnat !'Par of' attacks are provoking support for people in the region is that tlic n1st of' Milosevic along the linos of "my coun­Europn and thn U.S. will abandon try, right or wrung." The inevitable thmn once this conflict !'nds. Wc-stnrn civilian casualties give pr:oplc masons Europeans and Americans nood to to identify NATO as a dangerous ensure that thoir commitmm1t Lo tlw aggressor. rogion does not end with a military 
Ranged against Milosevic am NATO campaign alone. 
members more cohesive than in pre­
vious conflicts. Germany proposes a 11.ndrew Gould is an assislanl pro­
peace plan (signs of Serbian forces fessor ofgovernment and a fellow in 
withdrawing from Kosovo in exchange the K eflogg fnstilul e for lnlernalional 
for a cease-fire for 24 hours and Studies. 
eventually peace-keeping forces from The ni,m,s expressed in this column 
beyond NATO), but is committing are those ofthe author and not rwces­
troops to military action. France, sarily theme ofThe Observer. 
Italy, and Greece only recently agrnod 


VIEWPOINT 
Friday. April 23. 1999 



¦ LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
The Bookstore Basketball Myth 
Th<• myth ()f Bookstore Basketball remains shrouded in ra!'ial cn11trov1irsy. 
From my understanding as a sophnrnoro, as a commissionor and ns ;in /\fricnn-1\nrnrkan female on the Cllmpus of the Uniwrsity of Notre, Dnnrn I cnn honPstly say that th1•re is truth Lo tlln stal.l'mnnl. llowevnr. tho Bookstorn Baskfltball commis• sionnrs are not at foult; they arc not to hlame for the in.justices sulforod by participants. We as students of the University are tho individuals at l'uult for Liw racial ttmsions inlroduc(ld into lhis rm:rontionnl 1mvironml'nt. 
/\s !l community. we look upon the participants as gladiators of uncient HomP or Greect1 -slaves forced to light each other against tlrnir will as WC'. the blood thirsty spectators, instigate this rivalry betwmrn opposing teams. 
I stood fl('Xt to a spectutor nnd asked him if they thought that Bookstor,1 was too viol0nl. llis rosponso to me was. "(The violC1ncol is what makes Bookstm·e fun to watch." His state• men!. t,otherl'd me. but I continw~d to commission the gume. Thmi I began to rnaliw tho amount of timsion oscalating lmtwmm teams of ditforent ethnic backgrounds, as the crowd lmgan to egg tho playPrs on through thrir instigation and approval of such rough-housing. 
As commissioners, it is our job to serve as media.tors of the entire event: it is more difficult to control the audience than it is to control the players. The typo of atrnosphtire harbored by tlw spnctators conlrols tho social outcome of tho game. When thrr,i nni unknown members of the crowd singling out players to taunt and make personal altacks on, regardless of their cul· tural background, it negatively affects the overall mood of the game and its players. I'm not saying that Bookstore should be void of Uw trnditional "trnsh-talking'' associated with competi­tive sports, but tho taunting of playiirs must stop. Name-call­ing, gender-bashing and racial slurs may be entertaining to an audience dishing out such expressions of ignorance, but it Lakfis a Lull on the playnr bPing singl11d out. Taunting takes the 1'1111 out of Bonkstore. Tho spectator victimizes and degrades the nwaning and purpose of Bookstore -which is to bring the campus tognther as a community. 
One thing l'vo noticed is jusL how much taunting Bookstore t<'ams with football players am forced to experience by the same Notrn Dame familv that cheers them on every football Saturday. I ran't help hut question tho motives behind such harassment. Is it personal'? It is to make a person to feel less ur a memhPr of the team'? Is it to mnke someone feel less of a man'? 
Tllo insults that take place during Bookstore Basketball are harsh and unnecessary. In order to preserve the Notre Dame family, these irn;ulls need to stop. This is our responsibility as N()tre Damr students -to ensure that WP. are not being d1imPanetl by nach other. 
As commissioners, we try to hPlp the situation. but the rnspnnsibility is not solnly ours. It is impossible for us to rnsolv<' the unethical conflicts that arise in Bookstore, so the next time you witness someone insulting another team or playnr. makH it your business to ignr>ro that person and refrain from engaging in Urn perpetuation of their ignorance. 
Charlyn Henderson Sophomore Welsh Family Ha.I! April 22. l999 


c-f Z:-/4-e-0 6je-1-ve-1,. 
e'4,tt 1--s3a3. 
¦ LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
It's a Christian Duty to Learn About Kosovo 
These duys, prioritins in our States is ut war, and Notro Damo r11sponsP to what is happ(•11i11g. lives gntjumbl1!d a bit. Final students take that seriously. To ignorn Kosovo -to go paw:rs. exams, presentations. As mtm1br:rs ol' tlw new Notrn ahout. our linals and good-hycs good-hyf"s and last hurrahs arn Dame Pax Christi group, wn without a worry ol' the cries l'rnm Lim order of' Uw day. bcliovn that Notre Damn stu­t.110 Balkans or how tlwy at'.LU11 lly 
Yet w1i cannot help but. not.ice dents do not want to Int tlrn do involve each of' us -is simply anolhnr foaturc of campus prior­events of' lhc world pa:;s tlwm 1111accnptablc. ili11s at this time. This now fea­by. We have lrnard thH obsorva­In fact, wn lwlinvc that. it is a ture is by no mPans a nngativc Uons nbout Notre Dame bPing a Christian duty to inl'orm our­orrn; in l'acl. ii' f'ollowod through bubble, or an ivory tower, s1dvos 011 this maltl•r. I lisLory it could he quito positive. Wn detached from tho harsh reali­has taught Christians that turn­spnak of the dosirn to loarn morn ties of' th() ,,vorld. Yot we wish ing away and prntcnding not to -and to learn for ourselves -not to give into that way of' view­earn about suffering can bn tlw t.ruth about Kosovo. We have ing education herf\. We think cl1~adly. Nor can we just shrug noticed many who want lo knmv that students can be called to our shoulders and say, "Nah. it more. oven just Lim basics about something betttir: an tiducation doosn't allect mo." llrn conflict. We have hnarrl in which directly soPks to improvo It. dom; affnct us; for Christians, classrooms and dorm rooms the harsh realities or the world. tlw Body ol' Christ knows no bias chat.tor about tlw history of Part of tlrn rnsponsibility that in favor of only caring about Serbia, tile rnligious tBxturn of' comes with a Notro Dame educa­what happens in Lim world clos­the Orthodox-Muslim tnnsion tion is an awarnnoss of tlw world nst to us. We must cam, and w1i that lies al thf1 core or life l'or in which we live. And in a Unrn think Notr1i Danrn studPnts do. ethnic Albanians and Serbs. of war, a time of massive suffor­
Most of all, though, we heard ing and complox political dys­Mike Griffin dialogU1. and discussion about f'unction, this is especially trun. Graduate Student lhc NATO bombing campaign Now, more than ever, we each Mon..•;1u Seminary nnw being waged. The United neHd to formulato a personal April 20, 1991) 



The Heart of Darkness 
I'm really scarnd. ly say that something is being donn -just as 
I don't understand all the violence. How can you "something" is being done in Kosovo by NATO's control what you don't understand? There can't be air raids -Hven though that "something" is an end to this madness until the sources are found achieving nothing as it fails to take on tlrn bigg1ll' -until the heat of this volcanic anger is somehow picture. OI' course Prcsidnnt Clinton was right slowly extinguished. This raging heat runs ram­when he said that we must tnach kids that vio­pant beneath Urns11 thin shells of ours searching lence is wrong. But how can we teach that which it for. waiting for a weak spot where it can find a seems we do not believe'? We am fighting a war in refoase and burst through, enshrouding and swal­Kosovo with bombs and guns and casualties on all lowing into iLself so much of so many others' lives. sides, every other movie and video gamo linrls a 
We all know kids like Dylan and Eric. And most way to glorify violence, and guns are as rnadily of us have probably been them and/or hurt them available as alcohol to those who am underage. It' at one time or annther. Did we do this? Did we fail violence is so horrible, why do we consistently to show thorn love and beauty'? Or would they not turn to it in so many ways, on countless occasions have recognized the very beauty of life even if it and in numerous circumstancos'? had been held before their souls'! Maybe this I don't have tho answers. And although littln is brauty could not pm1elrate thnir hardened hearts. <'asing the aching in my heart and Lim churning in Maybo we helped to embitter them. Maybe my stomach. that dons not mnan that I'm they were helpless; maybe they were ill. going to stop searching for tlw But that does not mean that they answers. Maybn we can start by were unable to bo helped. loving. Not just loving the easy 
My anger. my sickness comes pnopln in lifo -not just thr from my lack of understanding. t'rinncls and family. not just Not undnrstanding how these the ones who say hi to us kids could evHr learn such and gnwt us with f'riPndly, complntn disregard for lifo, safo smiles. but tlrn mrns not undtirstanding where who are hard lo lovn. to begin and how to begin Don·1 wn nnml to lovn the process of disabling those who sit by tlwm­the source of hatred sclvns on tlw train ridP which saturated their homn, burifid in tlwir souls, the source of tho own thoughts; who madness of their vio­snll tlw Strnl'tWis11 lence and tho very honrnlnss pa1wrs on heart of darkness. crowded Chicago 
strnots: tlw kid who physically makes me 
It makes me sick. It tries to hidn himself' 
in thn back ol' class; the grief, the rage, tho 
ill. I want to throw up 
Lim one who nnvnr anger and tears that 
rncoives tlrn frim1dly arc tightly contained in smilns? the pit of my gut. We're None of' us want to going to try to remember takn that risk, though. this day just as we have ~ We don't want to go out 
tried for Lhe all too many ~ on that limb and makn tragic days like it that have ....~.':J that effort oven though come before it. We will try ~_,tA ~~V that could be the only just hard enough to forget. /2 effort that's nondod tn makn
v.jp..,_ OF n\\.~ 

It's so easy to forgot these I\ I yr a friend, to find hope in images: terrified, agonized faces; 
Jmeonn who in Lum finds the boy breaking through and ' hope in you. climbing out of a second floor win­But, I don't have the answers. /\II dow, his bloody body dangling earth­I know is that I'm scared. And my f'oar ward; "Help me, I'm bleeding to death"; will exist only as long as I allow it to images of stndcnt.s running from school. sr.arcd for remain intact -only until I decide to confront il. their lives, around fallen bodies which seemed I'm praying for tho families of all alfoctnd in molded to Lhe ground, horrific additions to the Colorado, for the millions suffering as a rosult of' scenery. Soon ot1r field of vision will once again violence in Serbia, for all the silm1t emergencies of find its way back to our narrow existences. Our the world. and most of all, for courage. I want to tunneled in lives will mako these images a miser­bo able to imagine a world without violence. I able blur in the background of our hPings. can't do that just yet. But at luast there's somo­
And maybn. if we're lucky, we won't even ever thing I can do about it. have to Lhink about the agony again. Until it hap­pens again. Emily Dagostino 
There are so many solutions to this violence. Yet, Freshman the methods we use arc the wrong ones. They Lyons Hall don't propose actual cures nor <lo they begin to April 22, 1999 attack the root of the evil. They are emergency, temporary fixes put into effect so that we can easi­
E D




w ceneN 
----------------Friday, April 23, 1999 
Scene writer Andrew M 
Reckers looking f 
Above Right: Whether you're studying, eating or just admir­ing the ceiling, Reckers makes the perfect environment. Above: The smoothies at Reckers are a great snack for the health-conscious. Bottom: Hawaiian pizza seems to be the snack ofchoice for these Reckers patrons. 
Photos by Andrew McDonnell 

ByANDREW McDONNELL Scene Wrirer 
Since Reckers opened last August, it has rapidly become a regular part of campus life -a gathering place for friends, a warm cove in which bonds are strengthened and tears are shed, a twinkle-eyed companion for the late night studier, a cushioned wall for the severely drunk to stagger into and vomit against repeatedly, sweat beading on their foreheads as they scream that the head of John Stamos be brought to them on a silver platter. Twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week, Reckers is there for the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. But might that be changing? 
There has been talk recently that Reckers' status as a 24-7 facility is in danger because of a number of complaints concerning stu­dent behavior -particularly on the week­ends. Warnings were issued through various outlets on campus that if behavior did not change, the restaurant's hours would. There are a plethora of stories circulating through­out campus about the extent of such miscre­ant activity, thanks in no small part to Scholastic Magazine's Gipper. Since the opening of Reckers, the Gipp has regaled his readers with tales of patrons derobing in the restaurant, including an account of one stu­dent ordering food as he slapped his privates down on the counter like someone trying to turn in a lost kitten. 
Are such narratives fiction or truth? Is the woven yarn tainted with the spittle of false­hood? 
To be frank, many students trust the Gipper the way they trust a doped-up chimp with a handgun. A very large handgun. The only way to get to the truth was to investi­gate, to head into Reckers for one Saturday night and study the problem first-hand. Armed with a camera, $30 in Flex points and enough books to occupy a week, one brave soul headed into Reckers grimly determined to wrnarth the facts behind the myth. 
At this point, readers everywhere are paus­ing and probably wondering: What sort of loser are we dealing with here'? Shouldn't this young reporter be doing something "social" on a Saturday night? Wasn't he invit­ed to the Boat Club by a gaggle of beautiful women? Wasn't there some Mod Quad for­mal he should have attended? 
Oh no, dear readers with such a cute naivete. To this reporter, the intoxication that follows 14 1;onsecutive hours spent in the same, small campus restaurant is more than enough to make up for any "fun" that was missed. Such is the nature of the beast. 
3 p.m.• Saturday, April 17 

Reckers' perimeter has been breached, and the move is directly to the comfy red chairs in the southeast comer of the structure. 
Transition: smooth 
Management's attention: avoided 
Smoothie #7, the Strawberry "Did someone say tasty? Yes." Shooter: ordered 
The lunchtime crowd is still well-represent­ed here, including a vast number of parents for some reason. Afternoon studiers are scat­tered throughout the restaurant, straining their eyeballs diligently. One fellow has even brought his computer with hin1, staring into his screen so fervently that one fears his pupils may burst. All seems quiet in this first hour, but a tension seethes beneath the restaurant's placid surface. One can feel it in the air. These people want to take their clothes off. As of yet, however, no one is naked. 
4:17 p.m. 

The pervasive calm is shattered by two simultaneous and jarring events: 1. The entrance of a horde of 12-year-old boys who have just been released from karate class and 2. Someone -some foolish, evil creature -has begun to play the entire "No Doubt" album over the Reckers sound system. Greetings: from Hell 
Please understand, lead singer Gwen Stefani is a gorgeous, stunning creature, but at the same time she is the fourth Chipmunk. "Alvin, Simon, Theo-dore" ... and Tremblin' Gwen, the nervous, two-pack-a-day, caffeine­addicted chipmunk with vibrato like a fren­zied jackhammer. 
And still, contrary to expectation, no one is naked. 
6p.m. 

The subliminal dinner bell rings like growl­ing thunder throughout Notre Dame. The masses heed the summons. A line forms. Cries for food fill the air. Orders are eagerly thrust towards a bewildered group of Reckers employees. The employees defend themselves with the only weapon they have, the little blinky box. The red, flashy, epileptic messenger from Hell. It pacifies the mob for now, but one cannot help but wonder: When parietals commence, will it be so easy to fend off the customers? Hmm. The crowd settles and it's business as usual. Not a scrap of clothing has been shed. 
7:30 p.m. 

The group of girls sitting nearest the main entrance is now discussing which word is better: boobs or breasts. Reckers once again demonstrates its ability to spawn intellectual­ly stimulating discourse on the subtleties of semantics. 
No one is naked. 
8:30p.m. 

The dinner crowd has cleared, and the restaurant is now peaceful. The employees are chatting away, sharing jokes and stories. This is what Heckers was built to be -a place for students to come together to enjoy a bite to eat and drink unlimited soda from the Coke dispenser. One individual, no names named. has already had thrHe Cherry CokHs to maintain his fortitude as his sixth hour in Reckers approaches. He hits no intention of stopping at three, despite the giddy feeling in his belly. There is still, without a doubt, no nudity in Reckers. 

LINEBACKERS TAILBACKS PLAYERS TO WATCH NEW COACHES 
PAGE2 PAGEJ PAGE3 PAGE-t 
Despite losing all four 1998 starters to graduation or position changes, the 1999 linebackers are proving they have... TALENTED INEXPERIENCE By TIM CASEY ter at, in terms of pass coverage and Sports Writer things like that. However, Anthony's very aggressive and very physical. I'm With the graduation of starters excited about Anthony right now." Bobbie Howard, Kory Minor and Nicks has battled injuries through­Jimmy friday, the linebacking corps out his career but already has won appeared to be an area of concern for two monograms. Known among team the Irish. · members as a physical presence, this While the inexpe­spring he has delivered two big hits rience is certainly against teammates H.aki Nelson and not to be over­Tony Driver that caught the attention looked, said Bob of' Doll. Davie, this year's ''He's a load," said Doll of Nicks, young linebackers "Ronnie's biggest thing is maintaining have the ability to his health and working on his step in and make a endurance and flexibility." difference. Nicks Backing up Nicks and Denman are "I think we're three inexperienced yet impressive pretty talented, and we've got some players -sophomores Carlos Pierre­playmakers," said Davie. "We're also Antoine and Tyreo Harrison and young, which is like our offensive line, junior Hugh Holmes. but I think we're talented enough. H's The three have been pushing the exciting because there's some explo­starfors in practice and will be expect­siveness there." ed to make contributions in the fall. Leading the charge at inside line­Doll has nothing but praise for his backers in the new 4-3 attack are five new linebackers. junior Anthony Denman and senior "There's a nucleus there that we feel Ronnie Nicks. Denman, who played good about. Athletically and size-wise, behind Minor for the last two seasons, we might be a little bit more than is quickly becoming a leader of the what we had last year, but obviously defensive unit. He has made a switch the experience factor is a concern," from the outside to the inside which said the sixth-year assistant coach. will take full advantage of his talents. "That's why it's great that they get Last year, as a sophomore, Denman through all the practices. They are had three sacks to go along with 34 getting better and just have to keep tackles and saw action in all 12 working hard." games. While calling plays in the hud­At the outside, or drop, linebacker dle, the 6-foot-2, 232-pounder has position, the starter appears to be impressed his teammates with aggres­sophomore Rocky Boiman, who did sive play. Denman, a native of Rusk, not see action last year at linebacker Texas, said he has benefited from but played 114 special-teams minutes playing behind the graduating to earn a monogram. seniors. From his drop position, Boiman will "I definitely learned how to be a have to cover the tight end and full­leader from them [Howard, Minor and back in the flats as well as be a run­Friday]." said Denman. "They came stopper. This double duty does not out every day in practice and worked phase the 238-pounder from Okeana, hard. They never took a play off and Okla. were good players as well." 'Tm just real excited to be out there Inside linebacker coach Kirk Doll and help the team by contributing any said Denman's physical play and atti­way I can," said Boiman, "It's been The Observer/Jeff Hsu tude bring an added dimension to the really fun and has been a good spring Ronnie Nicks is the two-time monogram winner who has battled back from injuries to defense. for everybody." earn a starting inside linebacker position. "I'm excited about what I've seen The Blue-Gold game will be the first game," said Boiman. "I think that's my be good and do what I ask. In thatbecause he's really running through time that Boiman will be able to show­time to shine. I want to come out and regard, that's a great situation to be in the ball well," said Doll, "There's case his skills to the fans. show what I can do and help make as a coach." some things that he needs to get bet­"I'm real excited for the spring this defense be the best it can be next As a unit, the 1999 linebackers dis­year." regard the claim that their inexperi­Experienced senior Joe Ferrer is ence will be a major hindrance to also fighting for time at outside line­their performance and said their backer. Ferrer's 1998 highlight came camaraderie will be key in determin­against Michigan when he sacked ing the upcoming season's fate. quarterback Tom Brady in the fourth "I think we play pretty well as a quarter. The sack led to a 46-yard unit," said Denman, "We're learning Michigan field goal attempt that sailed and going through growing pains, but wide. we're just trying to get better every Boiman is currently seeing time day." with the first team, but Ferrer will "I think this spring has brought us also have a role to play in the young together because it's been intense," defense. said Boiman, "The coaches have made At the helm for the outside lineback­it as tough as they possibly can make ers is first-year coach Jerry Rosburg, it on us. We're all getting excited for who spent the last two seasons at each other and helping each other out lloston College. He has seen the and just playing well together." excitement and work ethic that Although the spring is important for Boiman and Ferrer bring to the team the players, Denman has set his sights and will learn the ropes alongside his on the bigger picture. With the likes of players. Tennessee, Michigan, Purdue and "l can't speak highly enough about Stanford on next year's schedule. the the way these young men have Irish will count on the young lineback­approached these practices," said ers to step up right away. Rosburg. "It couldn't be a better situ­"Attitude-wise, everyone is ation for me because I'm coming in enthused to get better but we're not here when Rocky Boiman is a young satisfied yet," the junior said. "We're guy and Joe Perrer is looking to con­just trying to get better and improve tribute. every day. It's a footrace between us "These are guys that their attention and..every other team on our sched­is very great to detail and they want to ule. IRISH INSIDER EDITOR: BRIAN KESSLER . ASSOCIATE EDITORS: ANTHONY BIANCO, MIKE CON NOLLY, BILL HART The Observer/Jeff Hsu GRAPHICS: CHRISTEN MANARY Anthony Denman recieves some adjustments from inside linebackers coach Kirk Doll. COVER PHOTO: JEFF HSUDenman is a key part of a young but talented linebacker core for the Irish.  

Friday, April 23, 1999 page 3
The Observer• IRISH INSIDER 
NEW FACES, SAME RESULTS 



With Denson's graduation, the Irish face questions at tailback 
By BRIAN KESSLER Spores Editor 
With the loss of Autry Denson, Notre Dame's all-time leading rusher, the Irish have some big shoes to lill in the back­liold. 
Tomorrow's 10th-annual Blue-Gold Ciamll will give head coach Bob Davie nnd his staff a bntter idea of just who will be niling thuse shoes next sem;on. 
"Tho running back positions essential­ly arfl up for grnbs," Davie said. "We're ,tll anxious to seu how the tailback situ­ation shakes out between ITonyl Driver, I Darcey! Levy and [TonyI Fisher. (They arnl guys who are talented and will give us a lnl ot' compditiun back them." 
The competition for lhe tailback spot has b11nn intense lhis spring, especially with Driver's rnturn to offense after starling snvon gamos at free safety last snuson. 
'Tm rnally glad to be back on this side of the ball again,tt Driver said. "It took a couple oJ' days to get bark into it. espe­cially lhe steps. I'm got used lo back­pndaling, but rn,w I have to go forward again." 
"That was Tony's decision to move back and it's put a lot of pressure on the rnst of us," Fisher said. "He's adjusted wnll and has done an imprnssivo job. We all recognize that." 
Driver, a former Parade All-American running bac:k, rushed for 125 yards on :is carries in his ronkie season, before making Lim transition to defense last season. 
"Tony Driver is just a workhorse," said running back coach Desmond ltobinson. 
"lie works hard, runs hard ... he has Lhe ability tn make moves too, but he's morn likn the Energizer Bunny. He just keeps going." 
Sophomorn L1wy, who had 6 carries l'or 20 yards and a touchdown last sea­son, has made his case for tho job aftnr having an imprnssive showing at last weeknnd's scrimmage. Levy, arguably tlm quickest nf the grnup, showed the ability to break tackles and turn the cor­
ner while rattling off a couple good runs. "Darcey has a lot of speed and likes to run around the ends," said Driver. "Fisher, on the other hand, is more of a power back." 
Fisher has also turned some heads this spring, after seeing limited playing time as a freshman. Fisher had just 18 carries during his rookie season and rushed for 75 yards. 
"My. frnsh~;rian year. was a_,real g~od experience, sard Fisher. Watchmg Autry play let me experience what col­lege football is all about. I think playing behind him has made me a better play­er: 
"This spring, I think I've improved lhe most on blocking," he continued. "Coach Hobinson always says that in order to be a good back, you have to be a good blocker." 
Tho 6-foot-2, 22:i-pound back hopes to show his improvements in tomorrow's gamfl. 
'Tm really looking forward to !the Blue-Gold GameJ. because it will enable me to display the talent l have and show tlrn coaches that I'm a complete back," said Fisher. 
"Fisher runs with power and quick­ness," said Hobinson. ''I can't really describe his style, but he's elusive." 
Robinson, however, believes that fel­low freshman Terrance Howard, who also made the move from safety back to tailback, may even be more elusive. 
In the first scrimmage of the spring, Howard, who was recruited as a back, had a big day rushing the hall, convinc­ing the coaches that he belongs at his natural position. 
"Terrance brought something to the table that I hadn't seen," said Robinson. "Ile found some small cracks and creas­es and made some decent runs." 
'Tm 20 pounds lighter than the rest of those guys, so I'm more of a slasher-type back," said Howard. "I try to get through small holes and get moving as fast as I can." 
Howard, however, realizes that earn-ing the starting job will be a struggle. 

"All these guys are fast and strong and have been really durable during spring practices,H said Howard. "There's a lot ofcompetition and I think that will make us all better players. You're competing with other guys, but you're also com­peting with yoursell'. I'm just trying to give 100 percent and work hard and hopefully get some playing time next year." 
All four backs could earn playing time --­next year if Davie decides to go with a running back-by-committee. 
"At tailback, I'm really comfortable right now. I think we have some quanti­ty and some quality," Davie said. "We'll go into fall practice with a lot of 11exibil­ity there." 
All four backs, however, will go into fall practice with a lot of pressure and with some pretty big shoos to lill. 


PLAYERS TO WATCH 


Five players who have to step up for the Irish to be successful. 
Mike Gandy ( #69) 
6' 4", 288 lbs. 
Filling in the final three games last sr.ason l'or the injured guard Jorry Wisne -including tho Gator Bowl against Georgia Tech -Gandy has prnvon to be a pow­erful forcll on the offen­sive line. Along with returning starter John Merandi, Gandy "'ill pro­vide votnran leadership for the young offensive line. 
Tony Driver ( #25) 
6' 1tt, 214 lbs. 
The hero of last season's Purdue win, 
picking off two passes in the fourth quar­
ter, Driver has moved from safety back to his natural tailback position. Driver's size and speed make him a comlete package. He beat out Tony Fisher and Darcy Levy to become the early favorite to earn the starting tailback position. 
Rocky Boiman (#30) 
6' 3", 212lbs. 

The sophomore linebacker has emerged as the starting outside linebacker, beating out senior Joe Ferrer, Hoiman's size and speed give him enough versatility to cover the tight end in passing situa­tions and step up to support on running plays. 
I think that it's my time to shine. I want to come out and show what I can do best. 

-Rocky Boiman 
Anthony Denman (#39) 
6' 2", 230 lbs. 

After backing up Kory Minor for the past two years ar outside linebacker, Denman has made the transition to inside linebacker and become the starter. Denman's aggressiveness and leadership ability will be key to the Irish defense this year. 
-
Bobby Brown (#88) 6' 2", 195 lbs. The fifth year senior made 
only 13 catches for 286 yards 
and one touchdown in 1()98 
after a previous stellar year. In 
1997, he caught 45 balls for 
543 yards and six touchdowns. 
With the departure of Malcolm 
Johnson, Brown must step up . ­
rnd roturn to his 1997 form 
· the Irish passing attack to 
1ccessful. 



NEW IRISH, 
GOOD OLD WINNING WAYS
COACHING A CHAMPION 

By ANTHONY BIANCO 
As•odare Sports Editor 

The troop of new faces flanking Bob Davie Saturday at the Blue-Gold game could easily be another road­block for the third-year head coach who is looking to improve upon last year's 9-3 season. 
As spring cleaning came early in Davie's executive cabinet, with four assistant coaches resigning in the off season. the Irish were 
stops with the Boston College, Minnesota, Cincinnati, and both Western and Northern Michigan in his 18-year collegiate coaching career. 
West joins the Irish after four years as the defensive back coach at Virginia Tech. He is coming off a 1998 season in which his Hokie secondary squad ranked among the best in the nation, ranking 11th in pass efficien• cy defense, fourth in scoring defense 
and seventh in total 
able to draft four men defense. who should be comfort­Both Addazio and able coaching under Rogers coached the
'I'M GOING TO DO AS the Dome. MUCH AS I POSSIBLY Svracuse offense that "( don't think that ias one of the
CAN TO KEEP THINGS SIMI·
this is unlike other nation's best last 
places I've been," said LAR TO WHAT THEY HAVE year. Jerry Rosburg, Notre DONE.' As the offensive line Dame's new outside coach, Addazio lead a linebackers and special unit that helped the teams coach after a KHvlN ROGh"'RS Orangemen rank 10th 
recent spring practice. OFFENSIVE COORDINATOR in rushing, third in 
"But the importance of 
football at this school 
is quite unique, people 

really care. It's not only the players 
that like football. but everyone else 
around here finds football very 
important. l think as a football coach. 
you find that to be a real positive, 
because you like to have what you do 
be important." 

Rosburg. a secondary coach the past two seasons at Boston College, is one of the four new coaches that Davie will groom for the 1999 season. New offensive coordinator Kevin Rogers, secondary coach Lou West and tight end and special teams coach Steve Addazio will complete the new coaching roster for Notre Dame. 
Like the rest of the team, the Irish coaching staff will be marked by inexperience -as far as coaching from the Notre Dame playbook is con­cerned. But younger players filling the holes created by the graduation of key seniors and a new coaching staff will not slow the team, according to Davie. 
"When you look at 1999, it's excit­ing," he said in a pre-spring press conference. "Because we're a young team but we're going to be a talented team. The strengths of our football team come from overall athleticism and work ethic. Because of their hard work, the players have put them­selves in a position, hopefully, to take it to the next level." 
Leading them will be four new coaches with plenty of experience and accomplishments under their belts. 
Rosburg's coaching file includes scoring. and 22nd in 
total offense. Rogers, 
the offensive coordi­nator and quarterback coach for Syracuse. directed one of the most productive offenses in the nation with his tutelage of quarterback Donovan McNabb, the Big East offensive player. of the year in 1998. 
With such an impressive collective resume it is somewhat surprising that both of the new Irish coaches are impressed with the attitude that Notre Dame football carries. 
"The biggest difference is probably the overall tradition," said West. "I think everyone around here -the townspeople, the people that work here at the campus, the students, I mean everybody -feels that. It's a big tradition-background school. Everyone tries to carry that tradition on." 
Whatever the sentiment is, none of the coaches are intimidated or feel any extra pressure to perform at Notre Dame compared to any other school. After all, their inexperience is just as coaches in South Bend, and not coaching in general. 
'Tm a teacher," said Rosburg. "And the thing I enjoy doing the most is teaching football. When I'm in the classroom with my players, when I'm on the field with the players I have, the only pressure I have is to try to do the best I possibly can to help these guys play the game. At that point in time. there's no pressure there." 
Perhaps no one understands that better than Rogers. 
Despite the holes created by the departures of running backs Autry Denson and Jamie Spencer, receiver 

The Observer/Ernesto Lacayo 
New offensive coordinator Kevin Rogers will have his work cut out for him in improving upon a successful offensive campaign in 1998 after the graduation of several key seniors. 
Malcolm Johnson, as well as the loss of Mike Rosenthal, Luke Petitgout, Tim Ridder and Jerry Wisne on the line, Rogers will have a promising roster to work from. 
Led by returning signal-caller Jarious Jackson and hotly contested battles at the running back spots, the limited option style that gained them the 16th best rushing offense and a No. 13 rank in pass efficiency will not need overhauling. 
'Tm going to try to do as much as I possibly can to keep things similar to what they have done," Rogers said in a telephone conference when he was first hired. "[Notre Dame] was 9-3 last year ... its not like we're going to wipe the slate clean." 
Starting over with a team that showed as much promise as the Irish did in 1998 would be self-defeating, especially for the group of committed coaches that will make their Notre Dame Stadium debut Saturday. 
The work that each of them have turned in this spring will begin to manifest itself in the scrimmages and practices leading up to the fall. By the time the Irish open up the season against Kansas on August 28, these four coaches will no longer be face­less and the Irish will be a more experienced team. 
Lou West 

Secondary Coach 




Jt: ·...• 
-
Kevin Rogers Offensive Coordinator 
[!ii'----"-'-• 
--Steve Addazio Tight Ends 

©'Jlt 
Jeffery Rosburg Outside Linebackers 
ltvfSpecial Teams. 
The Obsel'Ver/Jetf Hsu 

Coach Urban Meyer (left), who switched from recievers to quarterbacks coach in the offseason, has joined new coaches Steve Addazio (center) and Lou West (right) in learning their new positions. 


r---------------------------­


w E 
ceneN D 
Friday, April 23, 1999-------------------OTHE 
BSERVER 


Oll1~1' IOJOlOJll 
nnell spent the night at news and nudity 
10 p.m. man is crushing his pizza with a mustard 
Tho seven-hour mark of' the journey to bottle. i\. carnival atmosphere has invaded nowlwrn hm, arrived. All is quiet, but caffoine Heckers. It really is happy here, not all that is b1iginning lo chm1onstratP its effects on the considerate, but very jolly. Yet somehow, no mind. "Dance'" it commands from the dark one is taking off any clothes. rrn:nssns of' the stomach. "Dance like a ping­2:45 a.m. pong bull in a wind tunnel!" But iL<; pleas am Security has arrived on the scene in the not to lw !ward. Giddinoss has taken effect, form of two large men in blue. They do not 
and nuphoria cannot be far behind. Apart appear to be people happy in their profes­from tlw scrneching noises inside one man's sion. They stand around a little bit, and then !mad, the lull continues here at Heckers. head over to the counter to have a coITee. Nudity ha,; yet to make iL<.; !,'1.Jest appearance. Half of the restaurant leaves. The ollicers get 
10::rn p.m. their coffee. look around and leave. No one Thn Flip Sidn crowd is in tlm hiz-ouse. A was or is naked. v1wy subdtmd Jovel of conversation is alive. 3:30 a.m. No nudns. The crowd is dead now, but tl1ey have left 
12:02 a.m.• Sunday, April 18 their mark. There is trash coating the noors 
Brain is shaking. Must ... must obtain more and tables. There is an odd stain in the car­Cherry Coke to settle nnrv1is. Brain ... stabi­pet by the stage. The employees look drained lizo! Can't f'orco eyns to focus! Think, think ... as they begin the big clean-up. Even in this 
what would Clmmmt "Clem" Heckers, the exhausted room, one can be fairly confident lirst studnnt lo enroll at Notre Damo. do? flis thal no one, neither employee nor customer, spirit is hnrn! Smell il ... like paprika. But is in any manner occupying the state known 
Cl1im's not nakPd. No one is naked. as "the buff." 
2a.m. 5:00a.m. 
A rn11ewod solidity is achieved. There is a The time has come to blow this popsicle tension in the air ao; tlw room is slowly begin­stand. The original intention of this mission ning to lilt with prn1ple. Aller 11 hours of was to stay for 24 hours in 24-hour space. 
wailing, i1 appears that lhe payoff is But. peerless readers. 14 will just have to do. approaching. This is not the lunch crowd, nor One man can only love so much. It has been is it the Hip Side crowd judging by the scent an experience, this time in Reckers. The sort 
tlwy drag with them. Look al them! This is of experience that will never, ever, be repeat­how Jann c;oodall must foe!. There's a lot of ed. staggering, grabbing and so much noise it is amazing. /\ young man just ambled past, A number of employees said they are treat­
tooting al evnryonc like a car horn. A large ed just fine by the student body, and for the gathnring of men in grass skirts and most part they love working at Reckers. It's a Ilawaiian shirt.s has just rmternd, and thn line good job, they meet nice people and it can be to rnach tho counter is immense. It st.retches a lot of l'un. But they also stated that there 
all the way hack to the building's nntrance. are times when thev are treated with an Ihm! conversation: utter lack or respect. One student worker "I lny. I low am you'?" remnmbcred watching a patron throw every­"TriL'-ilmd. Ilow 'bout you?" thing from napkin dispensers to ketchup bot­"Ynah." tles against the wall. Customers have painted 
i\.w11som11 • Them is a lot of love in this the floor with mustard. They have thrown room. But not much nudity. food. They havu thrown chairs. 2::lO a.m. According to Reckers' operations manager, Mrs. Patrick Camphnll nncn said. "I don't Mike Davy, the mason David Prentkowski. 
mind wlrnrc pMpln makn lovn. so long as director of Food Services, contacted tho thtiy don't do it in thn stmoL<; and frighten the Office of' Hcsidence Life about student b1ihav­horsns." WPII, Bnc.kers doosn't have horses, ior was that the situation was rapidly b!'Com­
hut maybn limy should get some bccauso 
ing unmanageabln late last scmestnr. thnrn's a lot of groping going on right now. "Tables and lamps were taken ... and !'Primps the thrnal of spooking such horses pagers. The lobby phone was vandalized 
could slow tho pacP a hit Tim crowd is still twice," said Davy. "It's less than live percent mammoth. and somnwhat unruly. The man­of Uw student.-, causing these problems. And ager is flying everywhern. I le just grabbed 
it's only wlrnn they are abusing others that mm studont's drink. smelled it and handed it we really become concerned." back to tho conl'usnd patron. It's not just any­I)avy also had no knowledge of any imme­
wlwrn that th11 managiimcnt sniff; the drinks diato plans to change Heckers' 24-hour poli­of patrons. Orn' must ,Lssume that returning cy, particularly as studont behavior hafi gen­tho drink wa-; an indication that it contained erally improvod as the weather has become no alcohol, but the managHr might just be warmer. But the next time Reckers becomes wrn,ding out tlw rPally hard stuff at this point. a destination, dear rnader, and someone is Onn follow has dBcidod that his groasy pizza making a dest.ructive arse of themselves, be 
tray is far too frisbeo-like not lo be thrown sure to do the right thing. That's not just the noor they're defacing, that's each and !Wery
about. so that's his new game. A couple is grinding without the assistance of music. student's right to 24-hour space, not to men­
Song hr111tks out sporadically. One young tion a great place to get naked. 
Above: Reckers is the perfect place to recharge after battling the blazes at the power plant. Bottom: With all the choices ofseats at Reckers, sometimes it's hard to decide where to eat. 

-
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, April 23, 1999 
¦ NBA 

Pippen arrested, suspected of drunk driving 
A.sociated P,ess Conference playoffs, was upset 'Tm going to get on the field sobriety lcsl and was Star appoarancos and !wiping 
by the Dallas MavP.ricks 109-plane and take Urn PA and say, taken into custody, when\ he tlrn Chicago Bulls win six NBA 
HOUSTON 95 W!'dnesday night, keeping 'Attention Mr. Pippen, last call was vidnotaped and givnn tho championships. 11<) brokP out 
Scotlie Pippen 's struggles as the nockets from clinching a for alcohol,"' Barkley joked. opportunity to taku a with a season-high 31 points a Houston Hockcits player spot in the playoffs and snap­The officer who stopped Brnathalywr test, King said. on April 1!i against Portland spilled off thr. court Thursday, ping an 11-game losing streak Pippen around 1::10 a.m. said After h11 rdused thn and had 22 points and 11 when he was arrestee.I in the to the Rockets. the Rockets star ran a red Breathalyzer. Pippen was nibounds in a victory ovor w1•e hours on sus1Jicion of Pippen had four points and booked on suspicion of DWI Seattle on Monday night. drunk driving. three rebounds and was and released on $500 bond In January, Pippen was trad­
Teammates supported n1peatedly beaten del"ensivcly just before 7 a.rn. His arraign­ed f"rom tho Bulls. with whom 
'I'M GOING TO GET ON 
PippPn during a hrief practice in one of his worst games as a mPnt is sot f'or next Thursday he had spent his 11-y<•ar pro
THE PLANE AND TAKE
hefore jetting to Los Angeles Rockel. before Harris Counly Court-at­earner. atH.l sig1wd a live-year, for a gamP. with the Clippers "Sr.ottif'. is my teammate and THE PA AND SAY Law Judge Sherman Hoss. $67.2 million contract with tlrn 011 Friday. Pippen didn't I'm behind him I 00 percent." Pippen has not formally Hockets.

'ATTENTION MR. PIPPEN,
atti-md the workout. but coach Charles Barkley said. "This is hired a lawyer. but Houston Pippen, who has bnnn Rudy Tomjanovich said he not Armageddon. It happPned. I..AST CALL FOR ALCOHOL."' lawyer Husty Hardin said Im is slowed by back and hand would accompany the team. Scotlic Pippen probably wasn't set to meet with Pippen next injuries hilt hasn't missed a 'Tm hoping it won't be a dis­thP. only person stopped last week after both nrnn return game. is avnraging 14 points
CHARLES BARKLEY
tractinn," Tomjanovich said. night." from road trips. The Hoekets and six rebounds, both lwlow "We are trying not to make "Scottie Pippen is a role ROCKETS FORWARD go on to play at Phoenix on his eareor av<irag1~s. llis six any assumptions. It would be model. If all the kids grew up Sunday. assists per game is slightly unfair to comment when noth­to be like Scottie, the world "lie adamantly denies lrn bettor. ing has been establislrnd. I'm would be a better place." light. A member of the depart­was intoxicated." said llarclin. "It's lwnn my nx1wriP11cn sort or used to unexpected Barkley planned to offer ment's DWI task force was who spoke with Pippen artcr that a lot of' limos, somPt.hing things happening. You just try serious support to his team­called after suspecting Pippen the arrest. negative off the c.ourt brings not to lose your composure." mate but also said Pippen was intoxicated, said police Pippen has struggled to fit you tognllrnr and makPs you 
llouston. curnmtly the No. 4 wouldn't get off lightly with spokesman Fred King. into tho Hocke1.s' alignment stronger on the court." team­seed 111 the Western the learn. Pippen, :-:!:-:!, did poorly on the after earning seven NBA All-mate Matt Bullard said. 
¦ MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Rockies honor Littleton victims with uniform patch 
Associated Press 
SAN FTTANCISCO 

Jay Alves stood behind home plate in the stadium that shook violently during the devastating 1989 earth­quake. his thoughts focused on a much more recent tragedy. 
Alves, public relations director for the Colorado Rockies, lives in Littleton, Colo., where two students killed 12 classmates, a teacher and themselves at Columbine High School on Tuesday. 
On Thursday, he was with the Rockies in San Francisco as they played for the first time since the school shoot­ings. The Rockies, who post­poned home games Tuesday and Wednesday, played with "CIIS" patches on their right sleeves in memory of the shooting victims. 
A decade ago, Alves was at Candlestick Park as the public relations director of the Oakland Athletics as a violent earthquake shook northern California and interrupted the 1989 World Series against the San Francisco Giants. 
"I have a similar feeling to the 1989 earthquake,"' Alves said. "It reminds me very much of that time. when peo­ple lost their lives and base­ball didn't feel important." 

Rockies players said they were trying to refocus their thoughts on baseball, not on the TV images of their grief­stricken neighbors. 
"It's been really tough. As a father, I can't imagine what those parents are going through. Especially when it's happening in your own back­ya rd," said relief pitcher Chuck McElroy. 
"You still have to do your job. But it will always be in our minds, because it's like we were there." 
The postponed games against the Montreal Expos will be made up in August. Teams in other sports also postponed games -the 
Stanley Cup series between the Colorado Avalanche and San Jose Sharks scheduled to open with games Wednesday and Thursday nights in Denver now will begin Saturday in San Jose. 
The Colorado Rapids of Major League Soccer post­poned their Saturday night home game against the Chicago Fire. No makeup game was immediately announced. 
The Rockies are starling a two-week road trip, their longest of the season. 
"Baseball is very, very sec­ondary to what's going on in our community," said Hockics second baseman Mike Lansing, who livPs about 10 minutes from the school. "Maybe it's better that we gPt away and Int thn community do what they need to do and not worry about baseball." 
Colorado gerrnral manager Bob Gebhard said the Hockins will do anything they can to help the community. and that the team expncts to do sonw­th ing this summer to honor the victims and rnscun work­11rs. 
"Our players havn b1inn vPry emotional about il, as we all havo been," Gephard said. "I think it was good WP wnrn able to go on the road and play baseball -not that we're going to f'orget." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. tn 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
NOTICES 

SUMMER JOB working with my two autistic sons using behavior modification. Training Provided Possible work for next semester. Call Pam @ 273-2761 
ILOST & FOUND I 
lost: 100 CDs that were in a black Caselogic carrying case. Lost in LaFortune the night of 2/26/99. Monetary reward being offered if found. No questions asked. Please call Brian at 4-1126 w/ any info. 
Large, double pocket LL Bean backpack w/ Pietasters patch. $50 cash reward if returned wlcontents. No questions asked. call 634-1061 
Lost Glasses: black, metal. oval. Salilo frames; clip on sunglasses: black case. If found call Paul @ 4-4765 
I KNOW YOU'RE OUT THERE! My blue LL Bean backpack wa& lostlst.olen in parking lot bit Lyons & Morrissey Please call 4-2900 to return ii; REWARD based on what"s still In it. Thank you! 
Found; Insulin kit with glucometer in La Fortune. Go to Health Center 10 claim 

FOR RENT 

Walk to school All size homes Starting at 185/monlh/person MMMRENTALS@aol.com 232-2595 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 
STAYING IN SOUTH BEND FOR THE SUMMER??? Lovely five-bedroom, single family house available for sub-lease. About a mile from campus. Safe neighborhood. Clean. Two window air-conditioners. Washer and dryer, stove, refrige. Call 634-0562 for info. 
FURN. ROOM;FURN. ONE BED­ROOM APT:PR!VATE ENTRANCE.AIR. KITCHEN.LAUN­DRY, PHONE.UTILITIES INCLUD­ED,5 MINN. CAMPUS 272-0615 
2 bdrm w/loft condo in Oak Hill. Close to campus. Fpl, pool. Avail. 6/1. Grad. students only please. $700/mo. 1-509-926-8118. 
IT'S NOT TOO LATE A newly remodeled 5 bedroom house is stialf available to rent for the fa!! semester. 2 full baths, wather and dryer, huge rec room. security system. Call now to take a look 277-0636 
Tri-level . 3 bdrm house, 1.5 mi. from campus across from park with 
1.5 bath, FR with fireplace, 2-car garage. fenced back yard. A/C, stove, refrig. d/w, g/d and w/d. 
$995/mo. 683-5038 or 232-4527. 
OFF CAMPUS HOUSING FALl 1999..SMALL HOUSE PERFECT FOR TWO STUDENTS... SHORT DRIVE TO CAMPUS. DAVE 291-2209 
College Park Apartment for rent 
during summer. Please call 271-1533 if interested. Willing to discount 
price! 
College Park Apartment for rent 
during summer. Please call 271-1533 if interested. Willing to discount price! 
RENT NEGOTIABLE! 2 bdrm 2 bath upper level @ col­lege park to sublet for summer. Washer/dryer. Call Joann @ 634­3620. 
House For Rent. Walk to Campus•! 4-5 Bedroom. Summer or Fall. Call 289-4712 

3 BDRM.DUPLEX 1 MILE FROM CAMPUS 503 EDDY ST. APPLIANCES + W/0 273-8332 
SUMMER SUBLEASE @ COLLEGE PARK CALL 243-5323 
3 BR House. Complete Remodel-Great Area 1 mile to ND. AVAIL 5/1 to 8/1/99. Call273•1717 
OFF CAMPUS HOUSING... FALL 1999 4-8 STUDENTS ..SEVERAL CLEAN.SAFE PROPERTIES ... CALL DAVE AT 291-2209 
OAKHILL Two bedroom loft apartment 2n-6180 
FOR SALE 
NEW Rates Phone Cards 282 min. $20 call 258-4805 
1980 Triumph convertible $3,500 (277-2684) 
COUCH/CHAIR 272•6551 
BRAND NEW 
S O F A 
4 

SALE! Forest Green and Beige Full Size Sofa, from Brooks Brother's Furniture Store, including matching pillows, is great for any single or for any apartment. Price is very nego­tiable Must sell soon! Also, Forest Green and Beige Carpel piece, cut 4 a single, that matches the sofa perfectly. is for sell! (Loft kit perfect for a single is also available, along with a University Ethernet Card!) SENIOR CAN'T WAIT TO GRADU­ATE-EVERYTHING MUST GO!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Contact x1549 and leave message 
LOFT $10 X2530 
90" Couch. 271-8078 
Entertainment center, bookshelves. desk, twin bed Graduating seniors must sell Call 243-2856 

TICKETS 

I NEED GRAD TICKETS! 
CALL KELL Y-243-8932 
I NEED graduation tickets 
Please call John @271-8531 

PERSONAL 

Fax it last al THE COPY SHOP in 
LaFortune. FAX Sending and Receiving: 631-FAX1 
When you need copies ... 
We're OPEN!!! THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center 631-COPY Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm Sat: Noon-6:0opm Sun: Noon-Midnight English Classes at the South Bend Engl"tsh Institute. English taught as a Second language. located two blocks west of IUSB. 
• 
9 LEVELs intensive training 

• 
NEW SESSION every 4 wks. 

•PRIVATE 
TUTORING avail. Phone 219-287-3622. 


THE LAST REGULAR ISSUE OF 
THE OBSERVER IS WEDNES­
DAY, APRIL 28. 

THE COMMENCEMENT ISSUE Will BE ON FRIDAY, MAY 14. 
1NEED graduation tickets 
please cafl me 
@ 271-8531 

MOVING? LET US HELP! 
1 piece to a house full. 286-7094 
To the person with those 100 Case Logic CD's-Face Reality That aren't getting returned 
Lose weight now.Guaranteed. 
Call Arleen@ 277-1410 atter 
5pm 
Happy Birthday Kushi 
Have one for me. 
-Revers 

Any sr.(s) looking 4 a roommate in 
Chicago? 
Call Mike 247-9035 

Englewood always up to no good! 
THE FLORIDA EVANS SHOWBAND AND REVUE 
17 song cd IS HEREII!! 
$5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 
available at Lafortune info desk and in some dorms. See www.nd.edu/-mcurreri/cd.htm 
or 

email curreri.1@nd.edu tor details. 
ADOPTION-So. Cal. cple looking to adopt newborn. 

love outdoors/animals.stable.devoted & financially secure. Will help wlexpenses.Can 
provide comfort.support & 
understanding.Process legal & 
confidential.Call toll free 
(1-888) 756-0667 pin #4195 
Karynn/Chris 

Did you ever just want to bash your head repeatedly with a wooden spoon? 
Why am I the only one who thinks 
like this ....... 
We all wonder that about you 

I can't believe my couch is leaving tomorrow. I will miss it. How will I do homework with no couch? Tragic. 
Love is not like a potato. 

You can't throw it out the window. 
Although who makes a practice of 
pitching of potatos out the window 
is beyond me. 
Buongiorno, pnncipessa! 

Thank you observer!!! I have found my redemption in a 90210 story .. now thats news!!! 
Kate, Brandy and Jamie, SMC 
Tosal was great -Mike 

Kerry came in really really wet tonight. She looked kinda like char­lie brown after the rain. 
Shannon Ryan is definately not a 
preschool student, there are some 
things she's very good at. 

Some editors would pass a purity test, I'm not saying that she's red­headed or anything, but its possi­ble. We love her anyway. 
hiday, April 23, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 13 
¦ BOXING 
Ali testifies before Senate hearing on boxing reform 
i\srnciac~d Press 
WASIIINGTON 

111• 11ll1!!'1•d not a word. but Muhammad Ali's prcsenc,i at a Snnatn lwaring Thursday spokn volunrns about llrn state 111' professional boxing and lnnl support to Snn . .lohn MrCai11's dforts to cli!an up tlrn sporl. 
Thi• formPr h1\avyw,iight rhampion, who sul'frrs from Parkinson's syndronw and has 1.rou bl<' spt•;1 king, told I hi' SP11at1· C:0111111l'rc1· Commitl1·1· through longlimf' friPnd 1!11ward llingham that thn I.P111111x I.P\\is-t-:va11dPr !lolyti,dd lwav:v\wight draw in NPw York last 111rn1t.h was 1lw "lowPSl point" l'or u sport b1:s1•1. with pruhl1m1s. 
"/\Ii has llf'l'.OIIH' incrnasingly 
upset about the scandals that have uccurrnd in professional boxing," Bingham said as Ali gazed intently at committee nrnmbnrs from a witness tab111. 
Ali is particularly interested in Urn parts of McCain's box­ing reform bill that would stop 11xploitatiu11 of boxers by pro­11111ters. Oun provisio11 would prohi bit "con r c iv11 option " conlrncls that prnvcmt lighters f"rom controlling tlrnir earners. 
Ml'Cain, an /\rizona 
Hepublican and :moo pn~si­d1intial aspirant, told /\Ii: "Your support or I.his legisla­tion is absol11t11ly vital to our diancns of passing iL" 
In tlw clisputnd l'ight. lhn thrnn judgns scurecl it a draw nvnn though most boxing observers bnlicve l.11wis clnarlv had lrnatHn the champion. fhn fight is under investigation by the Manhattan district attorn.ny's oflicn and Urn N11w York slatc Athletic Commission. 
McCain's bill would establish new standards for sanctioning organizations that rank fight­ers; creale new linaocial dis­
'YOllR SUPPORT OF THIS 
LEGISTtATION IS ABSOLUTELY VITAL TO OUR 
CHANCES OF PASSING IT.' 
SEN. JOHN Mr:CrnN TO Mw1.1\MM/\D Au 
r.losurn rnquirnmcnts f'or pro­mohirs aud Hv1•nt organiznrs; and n•quirn that state boxing commissions be informod wlwn charglls. costs and f1rns arn takt•11 from a boxer's purse. 
McCain, who attcndnd the Lewis-llolyfil•ld f'ight, said the 
sport has too few ethical boundaries and a ranking sys­tem, controlled by promoters, that ''defies all mason." 
"When honest and open eompetition is inhibited, it is the boxers who suffer most," McCain said. "But millions of ticket-buying fans in America arc also hurt by monopolistic praclices in boxing." 
Former boxing rrforne Mills Lane. a rntirnd Nevada judge who now has his TV courl show, said boxing's credibili­ty suffers br,cause sanctioning bodies -the !BF, WBA and WBC -play too large a roln in which judges and n•forons work t!rn matchns. 
"Theso sublln pn~ssures arn thorn and nobody can tell me ttH'y'rc not," l.atH! told I.he cornmitlnc. 
Bul. Walter Stone, counsel to th1• International Boxing Federation, said fight organiz­ers am working to addrnss the problems. 

For example, a new !BF rule says the No. 1 ranking cannot simply be taken over by a boxer who moves up just because of losses by nghters rat,id ahead of him. 
Sen. llarry lleid, D-Nnv., cxprnssed concnrn tho McCain bill might unfairly target cnr­tain promot1\rs and invit1~ lngal challcngns. 
lie said thn bill must addr11ss multiyoar broadcast contracts in which contenders stay unrll'r anNwork·s control iII rdurn for a shut at Ihe drnmpion. 
"Tlwrn is no qt1t!slion when it comns to rPvnnul's. thn broadcast industry parks the biggest wallop," said Heid. whosn staW is tlH• sitt• for many championship fights. 
McCain is lik1dy to move· the bill through thn Comnwr<'C Committen latlir this ynar. An id,inlica.l measure last y1iar passed tlrn Snnat11 but wnnt nowhere in tlw llousP. 


__Q ~:.: 




G::.tion Wee:::d 
Make your reaenadon• nowl Open on Sunday l2 to 9 for thle special occaalon 
SenlO, Preeh prepared Puta duhes, Veal, Chicken, Seafood and Steak Aleo, TradJdonal and Deep Dl ¦h Pizza 
Dial Phone l\ppedt. 674-0900 Category H66 for more Info. Downtown South Bend 235 S. Michigan St. 2.'.Jl• lOOO Resenations recommended 
L..._I_P_le_a_s_e_h_e_l_p_s_av_e_th_e__E_a_r_th_._R_e_c_yc_l_e_t_he_O_b_s_e_rv_e_r~ 
r ··As Yeu Wish"" 

lmperls 

SHveP RIDd& Lob of dewo!PJ? SUvoP 1'00 Rhld& Lob of AccessoPlesl1 Smtoo,Js IPom Ball locooso mnsloo Nocldacos ...BDcl mncla IRON i Direct lmp"rtenl Incredible Prlcnl 
Proceeds help fund the education of 4 Guatemalan children. Donations Welcome! 
Lahnune Reena 108 (near plaenn) 

Getting a year's worth of stuff into a car Is like trying to 
RYDER 
cram 10 pounds Into a 5-pound sack. You've crammed enough for a while. Give yourself a break. TBS Call Ryder and truck It-at the right price. 


www.yellowtruck.com 
Advanced reservation required. Present this coupon at the time of your rental. 
r , 
J Coupon only applicable to basic rate of truck rent.al, whirJ1 does not lndude I 
I

I :IJOO.rJ/O I.axes, fuel and optional Hems. One coupon per rental. Coupon subject to truck /ll availablllty and Ryder Moving Services standard rental requirements. Coupon 





s;io: \ 

Commencement Mass 
The Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
-
Thursday, April 29 Friday, April 30 
I 




I explrt"s December 31. 2000. Coupon not valid with any other offer, discount or promotion.I Discount Off I 
I ~~~;~ay 1-800-GO-RYDER local I
Moves
Ryder" ls aregistered trademark of Ryder System, Inc. and ls used wtderlicense, 
I Note lo Dealer: I. Enter discount on rates screen. 2. Enter Coupon I.D. on payment screen. NCOJ0 IL 3. Altad1 to rental agmmeut and send In wllb weekly report. RA Number______ .J 

Friday, April 23, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 14 

¦ BASEBALL 


Irish pick up 30th win of season despite rainfall 
By ALLISON KRILLA 
Senior Sports Writer 
Apparcnlly. coach Paul Mainicri was not the only one who wanted his team to pick up its 30th win yesterday against Central Michigan. 
An afternoon of gray skies and a steady downpour mirac­ulously gave way to sevP.ral hours of clearing that provided the Notre Dame baseball team just enough time to notch a 3-1 victory over the Chippewas in a speedy two hours and 18 minutes. 
With the win the Irish improved to 30-9 on the sea­son. and tied the mark set by the 1990 and 1994 squads as the fastest teams to reach the 30 win plateau. 
"It is something that we're proud ol'." said Mainfori. of the record. "We started off 4-6, and so to reach 30 wins before we had 10 losses I think is a tremendous accomplishment by our guys." 
"I think it's a rnal testimony to their character." Mainieri continued. "Tlrny could've started having self doubts, but these kids just come out and thev have a lot of confidence and they play hard." 
The Irish needed a strong 

Support Your Notre Dame 
Rodeo Club! 
r----------------------, 
I I I I I I I I I 

:. ate 4/25/99 1Location 5836 Grape Road IGroup ND Rodeo Club 1Phone # 256-5339

L----------------------~ 
Present this coupon on April 25 and 25% of your urchase will be donated to the club. 



• 
TIFaJE'IiID) ~IBiTOO 


Now Leasing For Fall 1999 
• Conveniently located 4 Blocks from Campus • Student Lease Available 
or One Month free rent with a year lease 
• Large 2-Bedrooms for under $500.00!! 
"The Best Value In Off Campus Living" 
Professionally Managed by 
Real Estate Management Corp. 

234-9923 
defensive effort and consistent pitching to outlast a sloppy Central Michigan tP.am. All four runs scored in the game were unearned, but Notre Dame took advantage of five Chippewa errors that sealed their fate. 
Throwing errors allowed two runs to score in Notre Dame's half of the third, as the Irish took a 2-1 lead. Andrew Bushey, who returned to the lineup for the first time since March 21, when a knee injury sidelined the freshman. singled and scored an Irish run in the inning. 
'ITHOUGHT OUR PITCH­ING WAS OUTSTANDING, AND I THOUGHT OUR DEFENSE WAS OUTSTAND­

ING.' 
PAUl MAINIERJ 
/RESH BASEBALL COACH 
"Obviously we didn't thrill anybody with our bats," said Mainicri. "We were fortunate to score three runs, I think, because they were kind of the result of a couple misplays ... but I think we put some pres­sure on them." 

Despite the Jess than impres­sive offensive performance. however, the five-man pitching rotation kept the Central Michigan batters off balance all evening. 
Starter Tim Kalita tossed the first two innings in preparation for a start this weekend against conference foe Seton Hall. striking out the side in the f'irst. Kalita was followed by winning pitcher Mike Naumann, who allowed three hits and walked one in three innings of work. Mike Carlin 
Gha1fity 1Run to Benefit the RED CROSS 
Sunday, April 25, 1999 @2 p.m. 
Sponsored by 
~ US ND COM 

~ United States Notre Dame Command 

ARMY 

$8 includes t-shirt & refreshments 
{$10 race day) 
Register: Monday, April 19 > Lunchtime @ La.Fortune Tµesday, April 20 Dinner time @ NDH/SDH 
-or~ @ Rec Sports Desk 

NAVY 


Homes for Rent 

allowed one hit in the sixth, while Drew Duff gave up two hits over two innings. John Corbin closed out the contest with a perfect ninlh inning, including one strikeout. 
"I thought our pitching was outstanding, and I thought our defense was outstanding, and that was the key to our victo­ry," Mainieri said. 
Right fielder Jeff Felker cer­Lain.ly did his part to maintu.in the error-free effort by the Irish. Felker tallied six put outs from his perch in right. taking advantage of a strong 
• 
Domus Properties has two, five, six and nine bedroom student housing available 

• 
Student neighborhoods close to campus 

• 
Security systems provided 

• 
Well maintained homes 

• 
Maintenance staff on call 


Available for the 1999/2000 school year 
Contact Kramer (219) 276-7020 or (219) 674-2571 or (219) 233-4509 
wind at his back. Felker also added onn hit to Notre Danw's total, extnnding his hitting streak to 14 gamc:s. 
Tomorrow Big East rival Seton lla!I storms into Frank Eck Stadium for a threP game series with the first-place Irish, including a Saturday doubleheader boginning at nnon. 
"This is a hugn snrirs; they don't gPt any bigg11r than this," said Mainiori. "Each and nwrv ballgame in tho Hig East con·­l'orencc f'rorn hem on out is going lo be huge." 
PriJay, April 23, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 15 
¦ TRACK ANO flELO 
Irish on high after Mount Sac Invitational success 
By BRIAN HOBBINS Sports Wrirt·r 
Thn Irish trark squads !wad to ll1,s l\loi11Ps. Iowa. and l'urclue llriivPrsitv f'or a1101Jwr wcwknnd i11 thP w;l.ional spotlight. I laving rlairnPcl !'our virtoril\S at tlrn prt\Sligious Molin[ Sac 
l11vitHlional. the\ Irish havn proVPII l.l11•msP!vPs among tlw nations' fi,wst. 
This WP1•k1•1Hl will find Sf'Vc\ral nwmhNs of' l.lw tPam compnling again in a w11rlcl-l'a111nus I1wl'l. lllf• Drak1• HPlays in DHs Moirws, Iowa, is 0111' of tlw f'ornnwst sp11rtiug c'VP11ts in Llw cotmtry. FPaLuring 1·0111pPf.ilion at all lm·­
•·ls l'rorn middlP schools to pros, this JJH'f'L !'Paturc·s Llw lwsl llw countrv has to offor. 
Irish· athll'tl'S havn lakPn a lik­ing to such com1wliLio11, raising tlwir pPrf'ormanrn l1•vel wlwn in tl!P hot snat. .IPnnirnr Fng!t,harcll, Liz c;row, ,JoAnna ll1•PtPr and Hyan Shay all quali­lfocl for tlw NCAA Championships whilP wi1111ing I.IH•ir Pv1111ts at Mount Sac.. 
Many of those athletes are All­Americans and arc used to the compPtilion that they find at tough meets. 
"In the past, the same people rnpres<·nl tlw tnam, just a select l'nw go," Englehardt said. Ilowiwnr. a fow rnoki!1 additions to l1111 rostor have also n:fusPd to Im intirnidatNl by the competi­tion as freshmen· Liz Grow anc.J Lukc1 \Vatson mnnagnd to prov(' Urnir merit at Mount Sac as well. 
Whih1 only a fow mernbnrs or th., !Pam 1'.1~11 compnto in thosn ll1('(1L'>, tlw ollwr athlPtes arP not inartivn. The majority of the t11,u11 was robbnd of thn opportu­nitv lo compPtn last w<wkend at thi1 Indiana Stak Invitalional dw: tu snow, but af'ler a l.Jit of' rnst and an intnnse wnPk or practic!\ Urn tPam is looking l'or­warcl Lo competing again al the Purdw' lfolays. 
Many athletr.s am thankful for the brnak in what is a very long s1iason and plan on coming back this weekend with renewed fer­vor and one last tune up before a run at I.he Big East title. 
Student Activities needs 
24 Hour Lounge Monitors 
for the 1999·2000 academic year. 
Pick up applications at 315 LaFortune student center. 
For more information call 631-5028. 
.¦"WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
N.otre D.iune takes on Ivy League 
By GENE BRTAUK 
SpomWrittt 

This wnekend the Notre Dam'e women's lacrosse team plays its final iwo games o( the sc~so.n, hoping torr-establish its repu­tation after a tough throe-garne losing streak: to ranked oppo­nent<;. 
the team enters this week• end's cootests u,gaipst Harvard and Columbia with an 8-5 rnark and thev will set a record for wins in "a season with awin in eithergame. . . 
Last week the Irish suffered three tough deteats.as they l~t to No. 19 Vanderbilt, No. 3 Duke and No. 16 Yale. The Yale game was the closest oftim three with a score or 14-10. Today and Saturday tlrn Irish continu(' their Ivy League swing with games · aga.ills.t the Crimson and the 
Uons. 
Ilarvard e11ters today's game with a d(l{-.eiVfng :~-7 record: all 
· but one ofHarvard's losses have 
co1ne ~gajnst teams ranked in 
tho current women's lacrosse : poll. . . 
Harvard is led by t.ri-captains 
Claudia Asano, Laura nahmen 
and Becca Brown. Assisting 
these three standouts on offense 
atl' Ashley Birch, Kim Weeks, 
and the tea.m's returning lead­
ing scorer, Alli Harper. 
fn goal for the Crimson wilJ be 
first-year starter Kettle Donelan, 
Donelan will be key to stopping 
thn Irish attack as she ha.s given 
up aL least ten goals in each of 
Harvard's scvon lossos. 
The next day the ll'ish will remain ln Massachusetts and take on the Lions of Columbia 

University in their tlnal gamfl of the regular season. Columbia evened up its record on Wednesday as it beat Fairlif1ld by a score of11-7. 
Columbia's record is just as misleading as Harvard's -it. has Jost to four ranked teams. Columbia has struggled 011 
offens(l all season b(lcause only two mombors of tho toam have at least 20 points while five Notre Dame players have reached this mark. including both Kerry Callahan and Lael {)'Shaughnessy, who have sur­passed tlw 50-point mark. 
Columbia goalir, Gina Klino should be prepared for shots from all nngles b11ca usn wlrnn Notre Damn gets on a roll tho goals come in bunches, as Denver and Davidson found out two weeks ago. 


Athletes win academic acolades 
By MOLLY MCVOY 
Assi~tant Sport, Fditor 
Two of the Bollt's' athletic teams received awards which showed that not only are they 
SUMMER JOBS.IN 
3~1<E~9A~ 
CALL: 1-800~833~3287 ·. WEBSITE; www.globaistaff.com Accommodation provided 
Cal I us or apply throught the web right away! 
Breast Cancer Awareness Baseball Game Notre Dame vs. U-Illinois-Chicago Tuesday, April 27, 1999 
Gates open@6pm Game starts@7pm BASEBALL GAME ACTIVITIES 
-Fast Pitch Game -adidas "S11oe" -Free Prizes fronl Gatorade, adicjas,wendy's -Haftle Prizes frorn Gatorade 
(back pack and ch 1ffel l1ag) -I~affle Prize frorn Antl1ony Trouel (rounc:j-trip airline ticket) 
-ND Leprechaun, Swoop (Silverhawks), we1 Kiy and Curly available to interact witl1 fans/throw out T-shirts 
-Softball tearn available at 8:00 -National Anthern -Glee Club -Color Guard -I :-irst Pitch -Free Hound nip ticket frorn u.s. /\ir (Anthonu ·n-aue/) -YMCA Dance (6tl1 Inning) 
strong athletes, but talented students as well. 
Both the Saint Mary's swim­ming and cross-t'.utmtry teams rcceiw~d academic honors this week. The swimming team was named Academic All­Americans by the College Swimming Coaches' Association for the first time in the swim team's history. Likewise, the Belles· cross country team was named to the All-Academic Team by the Cross Country Coaches· asso­ciation. 
"This is more exciting than breaking records," said head swimming coach Jini Cook. "This is what they came to do, study. Now that I've seen that they can perform both in the water and academically, its exciting." 
Men's and women's teams from Division I, II and Ill schools all competnd for thesn 

· •Used books liought and sold 
•25 Cat~gorics of Books 
•25,000 
Hardback and PaptrbJck books in stock: 

•Out-of-Print 
search s~ic~: $2.00 

•Ap11raisals 
large and small 


Open noon to six 
Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 

acad11111ic honors this year. Tim swim team recnivml a ral­ing of 3.0 I<J, second only lo Albion in tho Michigan lntfHcollogiato J\thlf'tic Association. 
Likewise, Urn cross-country team rccoivNI an imprnssivn rating of 3.22 for their acade­mic performance this year. 
Sophomore cross-country captain Genevieve Yavello was delighted to hear or the honor. "I'm really proud of the team," said Yavello, "because this award shows that not only are we comp11titive ath­letically but we do well acade­mically." 
The swim team thought that Cook had much to do with their success in both their classes and their swimming this season. 
"Swim m in g ta k11 s u p a trnrnnndous amount of' tinw," said freshman Alicia l.nsneskin. "Jini is VPry under­standing, and gives us a brnak when our workload gnts, lo be too much." 
Both the cross-country and swimming tP,UllS arn CUITl'ntly continuing tludr ol'f'-season training and arP looking ahead to Urn start of' thPir sna­sons in Septmnlwr. 
Oakhill Condo For Sale Close to campus, great for football weekends! 
4 Bedroom, 3 Bath large deck/ finished basement/ security system ­Open House this Sunday, April 25th, from 
2:00 P.M. to 4:00 P.M. 


1536 North Oakhill Drive 
For more information, Call Will McCarthy at 271-1957 
lay-up, but slipped on the slick court and was


Bookstore 
called for the travel, In the team's next pos­
continued from page 20 







'99 BOOKSTORE FINAlS
session. Gilbcaux slipped 
Tying tlrn gamP at 15. Watrh Out for Hook's Cooper stole the ball and scored the easy lay-up for t!H' one-point lead. After a Versatility turnover, the No. 5 tr,am increased its lead to two. 
Two kev baskets bv Dillon and Lillis tied° the game at 17. Hiltz drew the foul recovering a loose ball and hit his shot from the line for the lead. Watch Out for the Hook wasted no time in bringing the ball down the court lo tic thn game at 18. 
Versatility's Dillon stole the ball and knocked in a lay-up for the lead, but Gilbeaux answered with his own lay-up to bring the score to 19-19. An off-the-ball foul against Cochran sent Cooper to the line for a clutch free throw. Cooper nailed the shot, making the score 20-19. 
Versatility took control of the ball and the lead, holding Watch Out for the Hook Sl'.ordess for the rest of the game. Cochran took the ball down the court and split the defense for the 21-20 lead. 
The two teams traded posses­sion of the ball several times, neither team able to come up with a basket. 
Snveral missed opportunities by Watch Out fur the Hook sealed the team's fate -Sanders dribbled down the court and took the ball to the hoop for the 
¦ ON THE Hor Cmu\Jrn 

and lost his contact. Versatility took advan­tagn of the five-on-four opportunity and pushed the ball up the court and Cochran hit the jumper for the win. 
"We were happy with our No. 12 seed," said Dillon. "I was telling the guys tonight how great a 12-5 upset would be." 
Versatility will meet The Chosen tonight in the round of eight. 
In other tournament action, No. 3 Keyplay.com took to the court against 10th­ranked Thugs.
Thugs, with David Givens, K.C. Somers, Jordan Black, Antwon Jones and Adrian Irby 
opened the scoring in the first seconds of the game. but Keyplay.com quickly 
1.Primetime 

shut down the teams 4. The Chosen offense, going on a 9-0
run and quickly ended ,________________________,___ 
"Narrow1·n 
•


the Field 
3. Keyplay.com 

3. Keyplay.cc  m  21-7  





"·-·E 

5p.m. 14. Thugs  
St. 3  
11. Nylon Strokers  

3. Whoameye 
7. Coco-Butte 
7. Coco-Butt ~r 
21-12 

10. Mue-Tang Clan 
6p.m. St. 3 
15. Wax 
2. Malicious 
21-11
Prosecutior 
" 

2. Malicious Prosecution 
the first half 11-3. a more competitive tnam but tlrn some dutch shots to secure the The Bookstore Basketball com-
Alex Gese. Paul Moore, Tom rain had a lot to do with that. win. mission originally rank11d Dietrich, John Teasdale and cas Once a team gets out to such a "It was our defense that helped Keyplay.com at the No. 2 spot Schneller of Keyplay.com used big lead right away. it's hard to us the most and forced a lot of but rn-ranked them at thr<1e tight defense and scrappy play to fight back especially with the turnovers" said Gese. "We took aftor the round of 32. contain the No. 10 team for the conditions we played in." advantage of that and were able "Going down in the rankings 21-7 win. Rain flooded the courts and to get our fast brnak going." !ired us up a little bit," said Gesu. 
"I was pleased with the out-made it hard for both teams to Givens was the lone bright spot "Malicious Prosecution is a good come," said Gese. "We expected control the ball, but Keyplay.com on the Thugs offensive tallying team, but hopefully we'll settle used swift transitions and hit four of the team's seven points. that issue on Saturday." 
The Observer/Joe Mueller and Mike Connolly
...:c.J 
o·oherty, Bookstore Tournament epitomize ND Spirit 
By BRIAN CHURNEY Sporrs Wrirer 

It takes more than just coach­ing ability to be a great coach at Notre Dame. 
Unlike many larger institu­tions, where a coach can be great while only participating in his or her job as a coach, Notre Dame demands more from its coaches. To claim otherwise would be to admit that Notre Dame is nothing more than a school. If there's one thing that I've learned in three years here, it's that Notre Dame is far more than just a school -it's an experience, a way of life 
These last few weeks we saw another glaring example of Notre Dame coaches stepping out or the rigid roles of coach­ing and expressing what they, too, have brought into the spirit of Notre Dame. They have shown through action that they, like Lou Holtz did as a coach, are not here to solely coach and influence the lives of a handful of student-athletes. 
They are a part of this com­munity and willing to actively participate in the Notre Dame family. I am talking about the participation of new Irish bas­
-
ketball coach Matt Doherty and assistant coach Doug Wojcik in Bookstore Basketball. 
When Doherty was hired, I joined the "who's he" bandwag­on. In fact, I was pretty upset that we hadn't hired a coach with at least some experience. Although I was not one of tho Hick Majerus supporhirs, per 
-
se, I certainly wasn't a Doherty 
supporter. In fact, like much of 
the campus, I hadn't even heard of him. 
I watched the announcement with dismay, wondering whal the Univursity was thinking. However, during Doherty's first speech, my feelings started to change. Ono could tell by the tone of his voice, the sincerity of his emotions and the pride he emitted that he was honestly happy to be here. I began to see some of the same emotions and pride that Holtz used to exhibit. 
This no-named assistant ·coach began to actually appear 
like a Notre Dame coach. This 
change of heart, although sig­
nificant, certainly didn't com­
pletely sell me on Doherty as a 
coach. His participation and 
that of his assistant this week 
did. 
The idea that a varsity bas­
ketball coach would volunteer 
to play with a group of students 
in a pick-up basketball game. 
especially immediately after 
being hired, could seem almost 
preposterous to many schools 
across the nation. With all of 
the pressing issues that accom­
pany trying to assimilate into 
one's new position, it seems 
that a coach would hardly 
have time to breathe, let 
alone take the time out to play 
basketball. I think it's safe to 
say that even with the time, few 
coaches would agree to partic­
ipate. 
I sincerely doubt Majerus 
would have been seen near the 
crude Stepan courts unless he 
had a legitimate interest in 
recruiting one of the better 
players. Following the theme of 
Notre Dame as a family, where­
as Doherty acted as an active 
father, Majerus's "coach-and­
coach-nnly-attitude" could be 
compared to an absent father 
that is only seen once a month 
when he pays his child support. 
Doberty's v.•illingncss to accept 
an active rule in this family, 
then. should be highly com­
mended 
Doherty and Wojcik, it should 
be noted, did not solely come 
out and simply "put in their 
time" either, They played with 
an intensity and passion that 
we can only hope they can 
instill in a team that occasional­
ly looks as listless as a Rob 
Davie speech. The two coaches 
definitely came to play, and 
play they did. 
What's more, Wojcik didn't 
even plan on playing until he 
was asked to fill in for an 
injured player at 3 p.m. on the 
day of the game -late notice 
for anyone, especially a busy coach. The two coaches took the games seriously and embodied the true spirit of Bookstore. 

To see coaches willing to par­ticipate in one of Notre Dame's longest standing traditions and mingle with us "common folk" is refreshing. It gives us all a sense of being a part of the team. 
Furthermore, the coaches conducted themselves with class befitting a Notre Dame coach. They were fiercely com­petitive, but kept their emotions in check. They simply played the game like it should be played -a trait that, if passed on to their future players, could lead to a whole different bas­ketball season than that which we have grown accustomed. 
Now, I'm not going to anoint either of these coaches a Dean Smith before they have even participated in a single game. I know the facts that they can play basketball and the fact that they did play has little to do with their coaching abilities. 
I remember that Gerry Faust was a prominent campus per­sonality as well, and he hardly can be called a "great coach." 
I will say, however, that coach Doherty and coach Wojcik have shown that they possess at least one of the traits needed to become a "real" Notre Dame coach. They've rightfully earned the rnspect of the students ­something that will prove to be vital if they hope to stay here long. 
They've shown us that they are a part of us, the Notre Dame family. We, then, as a family, should in turn welcome them by extending our grati­tude. So Doherty and Wojcik, thank you. 
I'm sorry it was tough to gain acceptance here. But please, accept our apology. By this action alone, you have proven that you deserve to be here, 
Welcome aboard! 
The views expressed in this column are the author's and not necessarily the views of The Observer. 

The Observer/Kevin Dalum Coach Matt Doherty entered the Bookstore Basketball Tournament with Lebo's Legends. 
________________________________________________________..:___:;;____
Friday, April 23, 1999 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
Men 
continued from page 20 
Bityliss s,lid. 
Sachiro is third in Urn coun­try al singlns and boasts an imprnssiv1~ :l4-7 mcord in 'CJlJ. 
Sophomorn Matt Daly will he 
'ITHINK WE CAN STILL BEAT MIAMI WITHOUT PA'rn:RSON, BUT IT WII.L BE 
DIFFICULT.' 
/IOH IJA 'r'US'S 
1/J:'AD COAC/1 

c-a 11 ,~ d II po n to l'i 11 i 11 for l'altnrson at. No. 2 singlns and .l:tvi1ir Tulmrga will lw addod lo th,• li11N1p al No. 6. Andrew 1.a!lin, Casey Smit.Ii and Andy Warford will na!'.h move up a spot 
Hayliss will also Im forced Lo 
shin around his doublns linn­
u p. Aaron Talarico will 
replace Patterson at No. 1 and will team up with Sachire. Trunt Millnr and Taborga remain No. 2, but Daly will join Smith as the third team. 
The nHw-look Irish take on Boston Collf1go today al noon, with tlrn semifinals to bo play(id Saturday aftnrnoon. Tim Eu.gins advanced to the second round with a 4-1 victo­ry over Georgetown yesterday. 
Nnlrc Dame and Miami have met in thn finals r1ach of the last four years. The Irish rlainrnd tlrn title in '1J6, but tho llurricanns hnvn won the last two. 
"Wn hnal Miami earlier this yoar and arc ranked ahead of them," Bayliss said, "Beating Miami in Miami when it was <JO clegrnes and tho wind was swirling was important for us. I think we can still beat them without Pallnrson, but it will ho dif'licult." 
Both teams expect to square off in tlrn finals again this year, but the status of Pattnrson could play a huge rolo in tho winner of this year's championship 
Ayacht for the 


price ofadinghy. 

University Laundry and Tanning 
1813 South Bend Ave. Campus Shoppes Shopping Center 
FREE Dryers all of May!!!! 


Now you can get it all without paying for it all. Because the PowerBook® G3 is more affordable than ever (see below). 
WANT FREE ND TICKETS?
Awesome Pentium-crushing power.* Massive 14.1"screen. Endless adaptibility. All ofwhich can help you work faster and more efficiently. Leaving you more time to stop and smell the ocean breeze. Come in and test the waters. 
PowerBook® G3 prices have been slashed up to $700 with prices starting at $1799.00 Available Now. 


keyplay.com 
Call now for Apple's special ND student offers! OIT Solutions Center Room 112 Computing/Math Bldg Phone: (219) 631-7477 (1 for sales) 
Proud Sponsors ofkeyplay.com in 
the 1999 Bookstore Basketball 
Apple Education Store: 

www.apple.com/cducation/store Authorized 1.800.780.5009 Value Added Reseller 
Tournament 
01'1'9Applc(Aim11'1J1L-r. 1n. A!l f'Wlt.,rt':'i4.'r'l'N Aj~llc,1hcAppk.-k)f:'•,.aflll F\)v.'l"riltl(1!,. :m: 1r.11.k·m.Jfk.infA11pk Ci:ITllpult:r, lric., rc..1;,N:crt:dln 1hc US.A. ando1hc-r(o1.mtflt.'s '!'trftlfTltulll.'.'<m~1m,ommhxt! on m11:11urll irm.:~"t' t~­
Notre Dame Baseball vs. Seton Hall 


Saturday, April 24 12:00pm (2) 
Continental ~ Express l'-.""' 
One lucky fan will win Continental Airline tickets. 
Wo01en 
continued from page 20 
closely brhind the Irish. Boston College, ranked 69th national­ly, garnered tho No. 3 seed, 
and  a  bye  into  the  second  
round with  Notre Da mn and  
Miami.  

Seeds four through 13 battled yesterday, with No. 4 Syracuse disposing of' No. 13 Connecticut 4-0, No. 5 West Virginia blank­ing Villanova 4-0, and No. 6 Seton Hall completing the sweep f'or the highnr seeds over No. 11 Pittsburgh 4-0. 
Tho Irish are confident after their strong l'inish this year that they will live up to their No. 1 s<Hld. 
In their last 15 matches, the Irish have won an impressive 13, the most recent one was last week against Indiana, 6-2. Winning tho Big East could µropol the Irish into a high seed for the all-important NCAA tournament, which begins next weekend. 
"Our goal is to win the Big East and be the top seed in our region to get a chance to serve 
as host of the regional which will be a big advantage," said head coach Jay Louderback. 
Sophomore Michelle Dasso will occupy the No. 1 singles spot for Louderback, where she has benn all year. Expect her to face off against Rutgers' talent­ed No.1 Donna Krouzman, in a sure-to-please match. 
Senior two time All-American .Jennifer I lall will play at No. 2, where she will contend with Beth O'Donnell. a 6-0, 6-4 win­ner yesterday. Fellow senior Marisa Velasco will play at No. :J, and freshman standout Becky Varnum will occupy tlrn No. 4 spot. Bounding out the strong singles lineup for Notre Dame are Kelly Zalinski and Kim Guv. 
The ·doubles format will change for tho Big East tourna­rn en t, with t,rnms now only receiving a single point for win­ning two out of three doubles matches. Therefore, singlos will play a crucial role in deter­mining the outcome. 
The doubles team of' Dasso and Hall will lead tho way for the Irish, followed by Velasco and Varnum, and Guy and Sara Scaring(). 

After its strong regular sea­son finish, Notrn Damn crenpml into the No. 10 team in the country. 
The last limn the Irish wnrn ranked in the top 10 cam11 on Oct. 14, 19rJ6, when Notrn Dame was No. 8 in the presea­son poll after finishing sixth in the final poll of' the 11)95-CJ(, season. In addition to the No. 10 team ranking, the doublos team of Hall and Dasso is ranked seventh nationally, while Dasso herself' is ranked eighth in singles. 
"Our goal at tlrn bnginning of' the season was to finish in tlrn top 10," said llall. "Now that we've done that, wo can't lw satisfied, Our main goal right now is to focus on this week­end. Last year w1: lost lo Miami and we don't want that to hap­p1in again." 
Two Irish players nnter the Big East tournanrnnt with undof'natnd rnsumns from past years. Zalinski holds a 4-0 record in her previous two years, while senior Velasco is (J-0, with half of' those wins coming in championship matches. 
This year Varnum looks to start a winning streak of' her own. She enters tlrn tourna­ment ranked 61Jth nationally, and hopns to improvo upon hnr irnpressivn singl11s rr~cord. No, 6 Guy holds a 1-0 record in Big East championships, winning lrnr match last year. 
So as the Irish prnparn for today's match, they know that tlrnre am biggnr goals on tlrn horizon. 
If' thny hope to f'arn well in thn NCAAs, however, the Irish 11rst nnnd to focus on the task at hand: tlrn Big East tourna­nrnnt, and most importantly, today's match against Hutgnrs. 


Sunday, April 25 12:00pm 
• " 

Sundaes on Sunday 
-

... 

r 
¦ fOOTBAU.,

¦ SOFTBALL 




Irish name Jackson 
ND heads to coast for weekend 
By MATT OLIVA makes the games exciUng Big East will keep the excite, Sports Writer and forces us to be ready and ment going. 


1999 solo captain
play with passion. Our team ''We will have to get ready The softball team will trav­strives off ofthat." more," said Klayman; "We 
and. led by captain Chris Dusseau's five goals, sent the Cadets home with a sound 
*BrandNeW 
defeat. The Irish must continue 
Main-McKinley
their winning ways against the Minutemen -a team the Irish have never beaten in four tries. Despite Notre Dame's 

Self-Storage
tough history against them, this year could be the year 707 E. McKinleyAve. c 
that the Irish get the best of Mishawaka, IN 46545 
Netre Dame 
8i 

·-­
Saint Mary~s 
-
Excellent security! 
-video surveillance -24 hr. access to your unit 
Heated & air-conditioned units: great Cor storing computers & electronics! 



ol to the East Coast one(~ lf the Irish are going to will be playing for the pride 
again to take on two Big East defeat the Huskies, they will of our team's record." 
opponents this weekend. have to keep first baseman lri.sh pitchers .Ien~1ifer 
On Saturday Notre Dame Abbie Link in check. The Sharron and Angela Bessolo 
will face Connecticut (18-14. sophomore was the Big East should continue their strong 
7-3). currently third in the player .of the week .when. ~he conference performances 
Big East standings, before went four-for-four against oriee again this weekend. 
traveling to play Providence conference opponent Both have been dominant in 
(10-29, 1-5) on Sunday. The Rutgers. She hit thrHe h9me their outings so far against 
Irish (30-17, 8-0) are looking runs and had six nBls, tying Big Eastopponents. 
to maintain their undefeated Big East records in both cate­With a successful weekend, 
record in the Big East and gories. the Irishwill be on top of the 
top spot in the rankings. The .Irish hope to counter Big East as the team heads 
Saturday's contest against with a strong offensive into the conference tourna­
UConn will be a continuation attack, led by catcher Kris ment t.he weekend of' May 7­
of the long rivalry that exists McCleary and. herteam-lclld-· 9; 
between the two schools. ing seven home runs. Lizzy "We wciuld like to enter the 
"UConn is always a rivalry Lemire also adds offensive tournament as the top team 
for us," said sophomore cen• power to thelineup with !Jcr and take.that tournament," 
trr fielder Danielle Klayman, team-leading 14 doubles. · said Klayman. ''From "there 
"We have the undefeated Providence is less of a rival we would enter the regionals, 
streak hanging over our for the Irish1.hut the pressure hut we don't want ta look 
heads, but in a good way. It of the perfect record in "the past the B'ig East.·• · 




Minutemen to confront Irish 
Observer Staff Report the Minutemen. Minutemen's top six scorers 
f\lassasschusetts enters the are sophomores, with John 
The mpn's lacrosse team will game unranked ,vith a 4-6 Madigan and Rich Kankel trav(ll to Amlrnrst. Mass .. to record. Losers of live of' their leading the attack. take on the Minutemen of the past seven games, the Defensively, the Minutemen University of Minutemen have struggled arc also youthful but they have Massassachusetts. through out the year. They enjoyed greater succoss than 
The 15th-ranked Irish, com­have shown the ability to score the offense. Led by sophomore 
ing off their best game or the goals in bunches -scoring 19, goaltender Chl'is 
year -a 15-7 thrashing of 15 and 17 goals against Holy Campoletlano's 8.45 goals­
Army -are looking to pick up Cross, Fairfield and Boston against-average the defense 
another win and continue Co)IC1ge, respectively -but has played well against many 
their drive toward the western have lost six of seven games of the top offenses in the coun­
bid in the NCM tournament. when they are held below 10 try. Jlis goals-against-average 
Aftr-r dropping threr straight goals. places him 12th nationally 
games, Notre Dame was in UMass's offensive inconsis­while his .621 save percentage 
danger of losing the western tency can be atttributcd to has also captured the 12th 
bid and missing the tourna­their youth. Five of the spot in the national rankings. 
ment for the second straight 
year. The Irish, however, 
responded to the adversity 
!)[!CK, Df.TCK, GOOSE... 
IT'S YOUR TURN! 
Happy Z/s1 "Bea-Day"! 
I,()V(', 
The S1I/C C'hid.1· 
Special to The Ohservcr 

Senior quartnrback .Jarious .Jackson has boon elected cap­tain of the 1999 University or Notre Dame football team by vote of players on the Irish squad. 
Jackson's honor marks only th<) third timo in 32 seasons that Notre Dame has had a single football captain. Beginning in 1968, tho Irish have had two or morn cap­tains in every season except 1986, when Mike Kovaleski led the squad and 1991, when Rodney Culver provided lead­ership. 
Jackson. a 6-1, 228-pound Tupelo, Miss., native, pro­duced one of tho most produc­tive and efficient seasons in 1998 of any quarterback in Irish history. lie complc\tecl 104 of his 188 passes in '98 for 1,740 yards, with only six interceptions to go with 1:1 touchdown pass1is. Ile al so ranknd second on thn team in rushing with 441 yards on 113 attempts, scoring thrPP touchdowns. 
In his first ynar as tlw starter at quart11rhack, h(\ opened i11 11 contnsts -and tinishnd 13th nationally in passing efficiency with 149.5 rating points and 31st in total offense with 218. I yards per game. Ilis current 154.4 can!er pass officiency rating ranks second all-tinll' at Notre Dame -and his careor interception avoidance l1gurc of only seven in 220 attf>mpts also is second-best among all-time Irish signal­callurs. llis 2,181 yards of total offons11 in 1998 ra11kml as tlw fourth lrnst singl(\-sea­son total at Notrn Dame ­with .Jon Tlwismann, Hick l\lirnr and S!Pve l{euerlnin producing tlw top thrcP fig. urns. 

,-------------------·~--------------------~---------­
f riday, April 23. 1999 The Observer • TODAY page 19 

!JAN SULLIVAN HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 

SLURRED SPEECH 
I CAN'T BELIEVE DAD CHEERED ME ON LtkE THAT 
To[)A''( 
\ 
DILBERT 
I DONATED A erLLION DOLLARS TO THE UNITED 
NA.TION$ 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Panama hat material 9 Treats treacherously 15 Tentacled sea creatures 16 Store ur'lloading surplus 17 Old-fashioned reading 1e Deliberately disharmonize 
19 Symbol of strength 20 Crappie or bluegill 22 Lines from 
Horace 23 Blasted 25 Plains tribe 26 Jacques the 
musical Belgian 27 Auto style 
I MEAN, EVEN AFTER HE 
SAW I WAS rvsr A BENCH· 
WARMER, A fouR1li•STR1!'16• ER, A NoBot>Y, HE kEPT R1GHT ON 'l'ELL1NG, "RAH, RAH, PETER I RA!i, RAli,
PETER_, .•
-~--­
\ 
TODAY. 


j 
FRJl')AY, APRIi. 21, 199'1 
CELEBRITIES IIORN ON ·1 ms llAY; Shirl<-,· 'fomph· m~d,. R")' Otlu· '[;;OI\, V.-IPrit• HPrtindli, l;m Ho~1I,,.:., i:H.>lr Brr,wn, Pit'rluJgi ~., ..,,tuH. WiUlilm 5}rnkt'SFX'--'t't'.. I..&~ t't,,1..,jr•~ 
H.iprf B•rthda1•; \'ou won't h,.JVi" inurh hmt1 ft\r !'Out pcrs.c,\I\JI llh., if vvu w,uu fl) lx-itUCl\.'1-..g\ll protes.,ion•Hur Tr;-tu malt• ,mw1'hl!i lw puiting ,u,u.fo ,l,,1,m,~ timr If) ,·.•n·c1tiOJ1 with l.:;\1t:·d ("ml'$. Th'-' Olf•rc Yl'U prep11rt.• tht.1m l,or vour lwttn: ~•ht'duh•. tlw I~ dtftkulty· ,·on'll h..'1\'e w,wn it u,ml°' to pt•r:,;\,i1al mattt~r~. You wUI havt tht:" diM"1phr,t.> tt.1 a<..'C."l1tnrlu,h ,.. h.,t Y'-'U ~t uul to di', boJ if )'01, ,;,n.• ,;.id~u·;,h•~c.:i bf t.'mvt1vn.1l '(.;,)f\i.:'t.•rn,-, n.m'll u11s.. vour MJ)!.d Ynur uuml)(•ft; 7, IL 15. 3!\.40, 47 
,\Rll:S (March 21-April 1'1): You 
\<\rm tn:if,,._, h<•.idwa,· prnt,-,;1t1ot1.ifly if y~-.u ~rtt:·11k up. Phtcus.., .\·our inh•n­11Pnit .md mak,~ y1,ur 14\J_),rncsti,)n" R,,rnianc.·r t~*ut d.i:•,·•!lop thwu~h i~l"ll• lt:.tgUL'!i, omd L'lict\bi. n,, pndir,d lor .J dumir.. 00000

I TliouGHT FoR SuRE SoMET1MES 
TI\URUS IAprll 10.M•y 20): Th.: 
HE'D 'TH11'f1< I WAS A 
drnngt•, gorn~ or, w yt,ur J">t•r,.,on,1J llfr ,-.•ill bt· e-inot1on11llv dr,1ininJt. 

ouR MO'S 
FAILURE. I lHOUGtff 

PRETTY 
[)(m'I Mt b.,,.:k lwling •,otrv (i"lt \'1,1ur•

FoR SURE I-IE'D BE Cool. .'!11!lf. Grl (1uf 1nul ,Kl'I :.,mw good aJvit..'v. nw ,\nl)-hm1.~ you·fl• w<u•ting
1)1SAPPo1NTEO. 
is. v,iur l>wn. 00

I
1 
. CF.MINI tM,y 2l-/unc2()), M,•nn' you ,1rt•n't ,~"p..•rtfr-.g ,.".;n c-1,n1c y,,\;r w,,y. fk c,1rdul H l'tM.1 h,,\.'t' to tr.w('l. t:>t-lav~ ,iuc hJ lr~J'\:.J,ort.-,tinn f\f\1~~ 1,~mlii .)re L.-.·1Jt•nt. ("han,,;o nl.ildc.· tc, \'OLfr hi)me h'ilJ l>t: b1,111dKi;1i. 0000 . CANC.UI 1/un• 2J.lulJ• W: l,l,:•10 try lL• lm~,n:~.. <•tJwn; by m.iking lcolfW' Jp1,.1.tk•n~ \'iJU ,-rn'l r~11Ily atforJ OpJ"'U'itlilHi will t11o.'<·11r H you llt>n't t'(,ntiult \'1'111 \twc•d ont"" bNo'ft• v,,t, make Jt;rn,i~lttJ. th.tt wilt 11fft.>t"l t~ll..'m aJJ. 000 

l.EO (July l3-Aug. 22): You'll 11" Crill)' tf y,1u try t4,• p~afi.C!' l'\'l.'ryon..• ::iCOTT ADAMS 
to~l,1y 'fokt.• hn\l· tu ,k~·1df• what you 

w.rnt to th). GNttnr, ,rn~ry won't .iuom11h"!>l1 ,u1yth1n14. 000 
VIR(;O (Aug. 23-S<pl. :U): llo11'1 ht• J,.-.J;,,;,rft-11,,,! if \'Olir rumdnhc f"),'frt· n,1.,'1' k-t!< \'OU dm,m. y,,u wm ffl.Cl•t Ill'\.\' pott-ntilll rn.at<'.., while trt1\·clin).l ur b\' t:ii,;11in~ up fPI' cour:w~ or ltN.-tur-:·., ol 111tcn-11;t. Kt~,pi~ bu.t-~• \\11ll l"C' tlw kt"\'. 
000 
LIBIU tScpr 2.l·Ocl. 22): Pml>­lunt'!-with yuur \'ais, ll(l!'t\' or throat 
1'11J\' r'·'Rlll' Y<'U Ii Y<\lJ ha\'L1l1t bl.'\.'n 
t1Jldn~ proJ'(•r .:an-iat yourst."H. It's 
tin'le to !-t't \'our prioritil'!I !o!lr,,l~ht 
Ynur h,·,llth i11 more in,~,ortc1nt than 
,tl'>l'thmi;rl.., 0000 
SCOJtrlO (()et. l~-Nu\', 111: You'll h,we pn\Uk·m.-. with r,,ut lcwt.>r H \\lu'v,· 1,,,.-~n bu,y t{lkinii; t",u,· of (ltlwn-,md not p,\yi1\f,t .t.ny ,mrntiou In him nr lwr. \ou'II hil\"l' to do '-Offlt' M'."11 ulkint: i( rou n·l~h h,, rt'("t1h· th1, 
pn"lbh..•ru 00 
SAGH,ARIUS INov. 2.2-0«. 211: You n~v tl~'t.'d t<, put in ,1 htllc-l,,.~r· tim"'· )'t>llr t.'!furti. will p,w oif You'll ~1•t tlw rt.'<'ognition )'0\1 ,:h..·\"t>r\'1.' ,m~t \'OU'JI h1t,J g:,otkf a~,ut fh<\ j<-.b }'<)ti Jid. 
00000 
CAPRICORN ID«. l2•J•n. 19): lt':<> tunt.' ,,, h,iWC'-fl.om(' ftm 'h.J..c.• cm tl'\.ll of your htt..~. It'" up 1u y1,u tu m.,l~P you~lf hotppy. Tr,wl.'I. 1.•ntt.>rt.tmllwnt J/lJ pamp<_•r,n~ _l'ourselt ,houkf ,11 Ix> 
on y,lur d,,tH't.' <,·M~I 000 
AQUA RIUS tJ•n. 21~F,b. U): (~•I h.ack t<, b.1.ti.lCf You've hc."<'n mnninR y1.,urseU rJ~g4,'J 1ry1hg h1 J,1 rt.~o nun.:h for tt:i4., Jl\11H\'. Thi"' i:i ,iol tl•.w timt• to nv-1..'fdo ,t ti'1an1.1J:Hy (\t t•m<\ thJll.tllv. l""IOI.; 011 vou.r ~itu.1tk•11 n•.11i~ tic.illv.OcO 
risers (Fob, 1\1-M,n:h 201, ri,,. 
!--Uf't' lri~ Will ~iW )'OU d nt'~' attitml<· hnwmf lift,. You J\t!'t.••d to !lJ'l"Od Sol.lt?W tinw re-1.t,fn.i,, ,,..Ith frJr11ds, Fo.-g(.'1 youJ tn.,ubh.•'J, for" whi111.•. \.Vh11,-n >'\\I g1-•t back to them, ylttdl viti"-1 th,1rr, d,tfo.n.,ntly. 000 
M'i ONLY CONDITION h'Giting for vtru.•r::. t~, push \'OU In tht.1 right Jir\.'ction (}01l'1 ht:• ,tfr,11J td m,1bng"
~t------------------1 

l'l\t!!.-f4kt.~. l,i1.•"min~ t11;1m 1,•ourc~rr<,~ will IL~J t,1 \'1iur fl:UCCC$\4.~1o,
i

15 Tl-\~T THEY NA.ME_ 
~ 

FOR THE MILLIONTH 50METI-U:NG AFTER, 
~ 
. ,. 

TIME.: \IE5, I'M SURE 
<ll 
¦ OF INTEREST
l"'\E.. 

WE. WANT TO KEEP !•
~ 


Holy Cross Associates is accepting applications for the 1999-2000 program year thM begins in August. 
· Associates live in community and have service place­ments that includes teaching, working in soup kitchens and dealing with at-risk populations. ThMe will bo informational sessions of apporxiamtely 30 minutes at the Center for Social Concerns on Monday and Tuesday at 4 and 7 p.m. For more information contact John 
CALLING IT fRA NCE! 
Pfrthd.ty 6ahy: You t.:•nJ !o bknd mfl:1 your ,urmundinii;~. \'nu nl.>t·J to mttkt> iU,. t'ff'tirt it, -"J'-•..1k rout mi.m.1 ,u,d do y~'>tlr -t1\\1n thiog. You t.."tn't ~it .u,,u,ul
UNITED NATIONS 
~......___......_._~~t._1...._:~..l...,,;::=::::)..L..l._.L.,'--l.,t<»;~.L......=~1-.---...:a...:.:w.i.....-------=­
Stock at 631-5521. 

Tierra Colombiana -A Folkloric Ballet will be held to benefit the victims of the hurrican11 in Columbia on Saturday at 5 p.m. in tho O'Laughlin Aud.itorium at Saint Mary's. Eight hundred tickets are available for $3 each. 
Dance Recital -The Notre Dame American and Irish Tap Dance Recital will take place in Wednesday at 8::m 
p.m. in the East Wing of South Dining II all. Dances like the soft-shoe, Shirley Tempfo stops, lril'lh dances Md special performances will be demonstrated. 
The Notre Dame Brass Ensamble, under the din;ic­tion of' Father George Wiskirchen, will pres1rn1ls its spring concert Sunday at 3 p.m. in tho Band Building. The concert is free and open to the public. Please call 631-71% for more information. 
Notre Dame gtad student Justin Herg will prnsenl a solo organ recital today at 2 p.m. at the llilllop Lutheran Church of the Ascension. The program will includu works by Badt, Purcell and Pablo Bruna. The recital is free and open to the public. Please call 6:n­6201 for more information. 
Notre Dame senior Amy Lautz will prnsnnt a solo piano rncital today at 4 p.m. in tlrn Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite MusPum of' Art. Tlw program will include works by Bach, Schubert. Debussy, Prokofiev and Chopin. The rncital is froo and opm1 to the public. Pleac11 call 631-6201 for more information, 
Notre Dame senior Steven Stadler will present a solo
41 Kind of park 51 Handle 
percussion recital todrLy at 8 p,m. in Band Building. Tho
44 Black belt. say 
54 Control post 46 Least active of 
recital is free and open to tho public. !'lease call 631­
55 Somethe halogens 
6201 for more information.

improvisation
47 Sharp 58 Competitor of
48 They leave the the euro: Abbr.
park so Flags 60 Songbird 

Support your athletes: 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 

Attend their games. 
Annual subscriptions are available for the 
best of Sunday crosswords from the last · 
50years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

g arena quad 2pm-8pm 
"hollywood cafect"· 
h ct· . 

h 11

mner at t e mmg a s 
wild video dance p rty 11 pm-2am at stepan center 
-· 
-..,,._ 
... 
-
29 Gaslight ­30 Set of sheets 31 Whip-tailed 
swimmers 33 Cicely Tyson film of 1972 35 Continental 
word of courtesy 38 Path finders 39 Elicits an "ick!" 41 Handled 
baggage 42Some tournaments 43 Ending with who. what or when 45 Novelist 
Remarque 49 Plucky 50 Home of 
Edwards Plateau 52 Unescorted 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

C A V O S AN I "-+~~ ENS N O T --+.a..t---+-T E A ORA TTY NA ES S 
R L 0 
E E R 
I E 

53 Hydromassage facility 
54Many 

Woodstock 
concertgoers 56 G.O.P. foe 57 Field manager? 
59 You don't have to take it 61 Meadowlark's kin 
62 Orthodontist's 
fee? 63 Set of 150 64 Track sights 

DOWN 

1 --rod (flower of the lily family) 2 Eat quickly, 
slangily 3 Weak and wan 4 Supernatural 
being s Perennial 

campaign issue 6 Actress Aimee 7 Keats's "wealth 
of globed-" BRequest 9 "Hands Across 
the Sea" composer 10 "Whadja say?" 11 Mem of the A.B.A. 12 Protector of 
some canines 13 Not so tough 14 Super Bowl XIV 
champs 

21 "-Madeto Love Her" (1967 hit) 24 Area of hot 
action 26 Tigertraps? 28 Filed items 30 Brit's rejoinder 32 Still 34 "So that's it!" 35 English-style 
saloon 360oes some interior 
decorating 37Common recitation 40 Gel introduced slowly 




Captain Jackson 
¦ Quarterback Jarious Jackson was named the captain of the 1999 Irish football team.









PORTS 
p. 18 

THE 
¦ BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXVIII 
Rain-soaked round reduces bracket to eight 
By KERRY SMITH  l\lcCarthy and Mark Johnson,  
Sports Writer  took advantage of the offPnsive  
opportunity for the early 5-2  
Versatility has done it again.  lead.  
For the thirrl time in tlw tour­ Versatility quirkly SC'ttlrd  
nanw nt lhP young learn hus  down and took the ball to the  
stnpped on tlw court as the  hoop, tying the game at six.  
und<1rdog and stflpped off as  Watch Out for tho I-look usrd  
the victor.  an aggressive mun-to-man  
Captain Chris Uillon, John  defense and racked up 10 fouls  
Hiltz. Joe Lillis. Joe Cochran  with tlw gamP ti<'d at sPven.  
and Jason Childress began the  sending Versatility to the line.  
tournament as an unknown  "They played great tight  
squad buried in thll pack of 581  d(lfense," said Dillon. "We had  
teams. but after six rounds of  to work for every single bas­ 
play, Versatility has emerged as  ket."  
a force to Im reckoned with.  The No. 12 team didn't take  
Downing No. 4 En Fuego in  advantage of tlrn shooting  
th<' fourth round and upsetting  opportunity, however, and  
'.\lo. 29 Jumlrnlaya in the lil'th,  ended the night three-of-l 1 at  
newly-ranknd No. 12 Versatility  the line.  
continued its winning ways  Hiltz led Versatility's offen­ 
Thursday night when it  sive effort in the first half. I!is  
knorked off lifth-seeded Watch  insidfl and outside combination  
Out for the Ilook 22-20.  shooting gave him six points for  
"We're playing well together  an 11-9 lead at the half.  
as a team." said Dillon. "We got  "Deke and Benny are two  
togetlwr bd'ore the tournament  good strong athletes," said  
and thought we could do some­ Hiltz. "We just had to do our  
thing ­and look where we am  best under the basket and hope  
now."  for the best. Luckily we came  
Venrntility slarted off the  up with some key shots when  
game slowly, losing the ball to  we needed to."  
early turnovers and committing  The second half was a back­ 
several defensive fouls.  and-forth battle, as the two  
Watch Out for the Hook. with  teams traded baskets, keeping  
Irish defensive backs A'jani  the score close.  
Sanders, Benny Gilbeaux and  The Observer/Jeff Hsu  
Deke Cooper, along with Kevin  see BOOKSTORE/ page 16  After quarterfinal and semifinal action today and Saturday, the Bookstore Tournament will determine the  
1999 champion this Sunday on the Stepan courts.  



Women earn Patterson sinjuy casts doubt on Irish 
fourth straight By BRIAN KESSLER a major sPtback if" the Irish Sports Editor reach Sunday's finals.No.I seed "We were seeded No. 1 
Coral Gables. Fla. without tlrn knowledge that By WES JACOBS The 31st-ranked Notre Brian wou!dn 't be here," said Sports Writer Dame men's tennis team saw Bayliss. "l don't know if' we're its quest for the school's sec­tlrn underdog without him or ., Coral Gables, Fla. ond Big East championship not, but this will be a great 
Today the Notre Dame take an unfortunate and challenge and we're excilfid women's tennis team will unexpected turn this week. to prove that we can pick up begin its quest to claim its Senior captain Brian the slack." third Big East title in four Patterson sustained an injury Patterson is arguably the years, as the No. 1 seeded and his status is uncertain for best No. 2 singles player in Irish race Rutgers Cniversity the championship, which got the country and was ranked at the Cnivr,rsity of Miami. underway Thursday with 50th in doubles with his part­
Eighth seeded Rutgers was first-round action at the Neil ner Ryan Sachirc. a 4-1 winner over ;\Jo. 9 St. Schiff Tennis Center in Coral "Brian has been unbeliPv­John's yesterday in prelimi­Gables, Fla. able for us this year." said nary round action. "Unfortunately, Brian's not Bayliss. "I le hasn't lost a sin­
Notre Dame is making its with us," said head coach Bob gIes match since February fourth appearance in the Big Bayliss, whose top-seeded and is 16-2 overall this East championships, where Irish squad had a first round semester. He's also our best they won in 1996 and 1997 bye. "Ile injured his toe and doubles playor and was one and lost to champion Miami had an X-Hay this afternoon match away from All­last year. back in South Bend. We're /\merican last year... 
The 10th-rankPcl Irish waiting to seP if we'll be able Junior /\II-American Sachire fli.Lrned their fourth consecu­to fly him down here and ii' and the rnst of' the Irish squad tive No. 1 seed in the tourna-he'll be able to play on will bn expected to play at the 
-
111e 11 l, out of the B Big East Sunday [in the championship nnxt level for the t1)am to teams. compiling a 19-6 match!." have a chance at the title. l'l!cord. Miami. currently Notre Dame, which earned "We're counting on Hyan to ranked 24th in the country the No. 1 seed for the fourth­win all his matches, which I with a 16-8 record follows straight yflar, was f'avored to think he is capable or doing," 
win the 11-tcam tournament, see WOMEN/ page 17 but Patterson's injury will be 
see MEN/ page 17 

at Big East Championships, 
~ 
at Massachusetts, Softball Miami, Fla. ~ Saturday, 2 p.m. vs. Defiance College, 
SPORTS 
ttJ

Today-Sunday Saturday, I p.m. 
ATA 

at Big East Championships, Blue-Gold Came 
at Harvard, Miami, Fla. Saturday, 1 :30 p.m.
(6
Today, 3 p.m.

® ~ '!t.:
Today-Sunday
GLANCE 






