------------------------------------------------------------------·~--~-~-7
1 
l 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIII NO. 37 
Stick 'em up 
Legends of the Land 
The Notre Dame hockey team heads for 
Scene takes an in-depth look at Notre Dame 
legends like Knute Rocke. 
Scene . page 14-15 
non-conference play at the Icebreaker Tournament today. 
Sports . page 24 



Friday 
OCTOBER 15, 
1999 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

Building tradition in the backwoods 

JOHN DAILY/The Observer 
Notre Dame students tour the backwoods of Wild Woman's Ranch in Vanceburg, Ky. Students take to the road over fall and spring breaks to build homes In poor 
Appalachian towns. They visit 15 sites in Ohio, Virginia, West Virginia, Kentucky and Tennessee. 
• Students travel across country to earn credit and serve others 
ByTIM LOGAN News Editor 
Early Sunday morning, while much of campus is sleeping, 164 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students will stumble out of bed and make their way to the Stepan Center parking lot. 
From there, they will head for the hills of Appalachia to undertake a week-long service learning project that has become something of a tradi­tion. 
Upon arriving at their desti­nation -one of 15 sites in Ohio, Virginia, West Virginj,a, Kentucky and Tennessee ­they will spend six days work­ing and learning at regional service organizations that are helping to combat poverty in one of America's poorest regions. 
Notre Dame students have been traveling to Appalachia 

Mullins case to get court status report 
Observer Staff Report 

Hoger Mullins, former associate vice presi­dent for human resources, will go to court on Ttwsday, Oct. 19. The former University employee facrs charges of stalking two former female law students. 
Mullins was set to go to trial on July 27, but according lo John Maciejczyk, an attorney for the prosecution, bis defense asked for a con­tiuance in order to further prepare for the cas•i. 
Tuesday's mmiting will be a status hearing to drtNmhrn how the case is progressing and to see if 11 settlement has been reached, said Bill Stanley, Mullins' attorney. 
during fall and spring break for nearly 20 years. It began in 1981 when then-Lewis Hall rector Moira Baker took 14 residents of her dorm to Kentucky to work with the Christian Appalachian Project. 
Baker continued to lead larger trips to Appalachia each semester until 1986, when she left Notre Dame, and the Center for Social Concerns took over the program. · 
Since then it has grown even larger. ln 1987, 4 7 students went, and it was made into a one-credit theology course, with orientation and follow-up seminars. Next week, 164 will venture to the region and more than 100 others are expected to go during spring break. 
"The Appalachia Seminar has become a Notre Dame tra­dition," said Rachel Tomas­Morgan, who directs the pro­gram for the CSC. "It's a ser­vice-learning tradition." 
The purpose of the Seminar, according to Tomas-Morgan, is two-fold. It aims to provide help to Christian social service agencies in Appalachia and also to educate participants about the. problems facing the region. 

This dual mission influences what service groups students spend their week with. 
"We look for partners who are committed to the educa­tional process," she said. "Sites that want to welcome students into the region, not just to fill a need ... but who are committed to educating students about Appalachia." 
Education also factors heavi­ly into seminars before and after the trip. Experts on the regions speak and participants 
see SERVICE/page 4 


ND students attend Gore speech 
By BRIDGET O'CONNOR 
News Writer 
The students in the Notre Dame Semester in Washington Program attended Vice President Al Gore's speech before a meeting of the 
Democratic Leadership Council Thursday after­noon. 
The speech was part of a day•long event · which included presenta­tions by top demo­cratic figures including Indiana 


Senator Evan Baye Gore and Senator Joseph Lieberman from Connecticut among others. 
"It is crucially important that we take the historical values of the democratic party and pursue them in ways that arc important to the American people," said Gore. Speaking before a friendly audience, Gore took the opportu~ity to relax, touch upon a few issues and take a few shots at the competition. 
"He took some stabs at the Republicans," said junior Nick Faleri.s. ln particular, Gore placed the responsi­bility for the blockage of the nuclear test ban treaty in Congress on Wednesday on the G.O.P. Gore shared plans to use the issue as a campaigning point. 
"My first act as President will be to resubmit this treaty to the Senate with the demand of the American people that they ratify this treaty," he said. 
The students in attendance were fair­ly split as to Gore's appeal from the podium. "I didn't feel like the audience was really into it," said Faleris. "He wasn't really that animated." 
Silvia disagreed, noting that he dis­carded his notecards early in the speech and used anecdotes such as his recently becoming a grandparent and how he became involved in politics to put the crowd at ease. 
''He's a great speaker,'' she said. 
''But then, r think he owed it to them," she continued, explaining that Gore was approximately one hour late for his appearance. 
"He kind of did the talk show host thing, where he walked out from the podium," said junior Emily Tubay. "He seemed like he had some things going for him that I didn't realize before." 
Tubay felt that her overall impression was enhanced by Gore's presentation. "I actually didn't know what to expect. He's had a tough time so far just being in Clinton's shadow." 
Tubay and Silvia commented on their 
see GORE/page 8 


page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Friday, October 15, 1999 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

OUTSIDE THE DOME 

U. of Colorado president offers resignation 


LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 

The AccuWeather> forecast for noon, Friday, Oct. 15.
AccuWeather• forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

40s U11es separate high temperature zones for the day. 
C 1999 .t.ecuWeatner. Inc. COLD WARM S1A.TIONARY 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Friday Night Lame 
With the end of John MacLeod's reign and the arrival of Matt Doherty, Irish men's basketball has a great chance of actually being exciting and worth watching. Tonight's "Friday Night Live" signifies the official start of 
college basketball practice with a night of excitement and fun. 

Now, an event I.hat signi­fies the start of college bas­ketball season would obvi­ously have as its central theme basketball. As I look down the schedule of events for that night, I see the bas­

ketball theme is very preva­Mike Connolly lent. A men's interhall tourna­ment and a women's three 
Associate 
point shoot-out kick off the 

Sports Editor 
evening followed by Coach Doherty and his staff taking on the champions of each event a little later. This part of the evening is def­initely basketball related. 
Doherty wfll then give a speech at 11:45 p.m., and the first practice of the year will kick off with a scrimmage after that. I'd have to say that Coach Doherty and the men's basketball team most certainly have a basketball theme. 
Throughout the evening Dick Vitale will serve as a host and master of ceremonies. You can't get much more "basketball" than Dickie V. Whenever I hear his voice shrilling out "totally awesome, baby" or "PTPer," I know that basket­ball is close at hand. 
Serving as the head coach for one of the men's basketball squads in the midnight scrimmage will be Irish basketball legend Austin Carr. Since Carr is coaching one team it would be natural to assume that another basketball legend would be coaching the other team, right? 
Except, what's this? 

Tommy Hilfiger will be coaching the other team in the midnight scrimmage? What does Hilfiger know about coaching basketball? 
That must be a typo. They probably meant to write Tommy Amaker. But then I realized that Amaker would be busy getting Seton Hall ready for its season. 
And plus, why would Notre Dame invite Seton Hall's head coach to its basketball Midnight Madness? Heck, that would make about as much sense as inviting a fashion designer to Friday Night Llve. 
So looking at this schedule of events, I have only one question: What does Tommy Hilfiger have to do with Notre Dame men's basketball? 
How does the maker of overpriced clothing have any relevance to the 1999-2000 men's bas­ketball season at Notre Dame? 
Hilfiger makes clothing that he calls "athletic wear." Maybe that's why he was invited to Friday Night Live. Except that Tommy's "athletic wear" is only useful ifyour idea of athletics is standing around ·and looking cool (or at least looking like you spent way too much money for a T-shirt). 
If you wear Hilfiger "athletic wear" and you get grass stains on it, you're out $40. That's not "athletic wear." It's idiot wear. 
So the question remains, why did Notre Dame feel that Tommy Hilfiger would be a good person to represent Notre Dame basketball? 
Oh wait ... now I remember! Hilfiger has a con­tract with Notre Dame to make clothing. It's all becoming clear. This has nothing-to do with bas­ketball and everything to do with money. 
The z,iews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Christine Kealy Mike Vanegas Matthew Smith Graphics Kyle Andrews Katie Kennedy 
Sports Production 
Noah Amstadcer Karhleen O'Brien Viewpoint Brian Kessler Dustin Ferrell Lab Tech Angda Campos 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday excepr during exam and vacation ~r-iods. The Obserwr is a mcmbt:r of the .'uwgaic~ J?r,;ss. All rcprp4w;ti,pi, r,ioht'l-a,c.rcoef.Vcd• 
• , .'· , ,~"",,. _\ l'... ~ • ~ _1, t I , 
0

T•· 7. ;·-:•~•>, t.~., ...... 'I'.;\ ~,-·•:•,llo'~t-·, ,f~ •. 
'• •; ' •. •C 
THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME HISTORY 
University creates task force 

LOS ANGELES 
In reaction to decreases in enrollment in University of California medical schools for underrepresented students, the UC office of the president has created a task force to examine the effects on education and access to health care. The task force will look into the effect on medical education, access to health care, the reasons for the decline and outreach solutions. Last year, enrollment for underrepresented students decreased 12.5 percent despite the fact that the num­ber of offers of admission given rose by 30 percent, according to UCOP numbers. "I think that this year the situation has shown a real disparity between the stu­dents admitted and those that chose to· enroll," said UC vice president for health affairs Cornelius Hopper, who is heading the task force. "These are obviousli qualified people who choose to go elsewhere.' University officials said they are concerned, not only about what effect this drop could have on the educa­tion of future physicians, but also what effect this drop will have on access to health care in some minority neighborhoods. 


Yale stalls on full disclosure 
NEW HAVEN, Conn. 

A decision by Nike last week to reveal the names and locations of some of its overseas factories proved that, when universities demand it, apparel companies wlll provide public disclosure-what anti-sweatshop activists say is the first step to ensuring college appar­el is made under acceptable working conditions. But after meeting with student activists last week, Yale University president Richard Levin said Yale is not ready to write full disclosure into its contracts with licensees. After the University of Arizona, Duke, Georgetown. the University of Michigan and the University of North Carolina included a disclosure pro­vision in their contracts with Nike, the sneaker and clothing giant released the names and locations of the factories where those schools' logo apparel is manu­factured. The list, available to the public at www.nike­biz.com, includes factories throughout South America, south Asia and the southern United States. Nike is not a Yale licensee, and Levin said he is not ready to ask his licensees to provide similar disclosure since he feels Yale's demands would 

ITil ~ ~ ~ (J ~ ­
T~•torm• Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. C:loudy Cloudy 
Monday, Oct. 11, 1976 

. Carter on Campus: Democratic presidential nominee Jimmy Carter called for volunteerism among the American people in a speech at the Center for Continuing Education (CCE). In front of a packed crowd of 400 people, Carter talked for a brief 20 minutes because of a hectic schedule leading up to presidential elections next month. 
BOULDER, Colo. 
University of Colorado president 

John Buechner offered to resign Wednesday following months of con­troversy surrounding his administra­tion and his hiring of a personal ·friend, Fran Raudenbush, as his 
executive consultant. 
Buechner announced his offer of 
resignation a day before the Board 
of Regents was expected to quiz him 
about the controversy, which arose 
as a result of a Colorado Daily inves­
tigation begun last May. 
Buechner made no mention of the 
controversy in his letter of resigna­
tion, which was addressed to Peter 
Steinhauer, the chairman of the 
regents. 
He did, however, refer to a per­
ceived lack of support from some 
regents. A few regents had recently 

"It would be difficult to continue to lead this $1.4 billion dollar university without the confidence from each Board member" 
John Buechner 
University of Colorado president 
called for a discussion of the Raudenbush matter. 
"I have not reached this decision in a hasty manner," wrote Buechner, who was appointed to succeed for­mer CU president Judith Albino in 1995. 
"As you know, some members of the Board have nagging questions about the process for a fifth year 
Tuesday. Oct. 12, 1976 

. Eight o'clock blues: With midterms upon Notre Dame, one of the most noteable changes was the time of exams. Evening exams were eliminated. All exams were now scheduled at 8a.m. According to the Registrar's oflice, there had been no negative student feedback regarding the change. 
review of rny presidency and have asked whether or not I intend to undergo review. 
"It is clear that by this letter they should not find a fifth year review necessary. Moreover, some members of the Board of Regents have dis­cussed directly with the print media their concerns about my perfor­mance as president. 
"It would be most difficult to con­tinue to lead this $1.4 billion dollar university without the complete 100 percent commitment and confidence from each Board member in my role as president." Buechner wrote that he would resign "no later than June 1, 2000," although it was not clear whether he intended to stay in office until that date. 
Buechner did not respond to a message left on his voice mail Wednesday. 

Via A5:5ocfa/OO Pmss 
Atlanta 78 55 Dallas 90 67 Philadelphia 64 38 Baltimore 65 36 Fredonia 64 34 Sacramento 89 58
~~~~~~ !) ~ ~ 

Boston 60 39 Las Vegas 90 61 St. LOUIS 76 55
·~~;.,',; ~-s;;,;~ R~m ;;;;;~ s~7,,: ~ ~ Sunny Pt ;;~w ;l~dv 

Buffalo 62 34 New York 62 42 Tampa 85 72 
VIS Assocfatsr1 Press Gmpl'lfesNet 

Chicago 70 49 Orcoord Park 62 34 Washinglon 67 41 


--.--.,-,--;-,• I ·----~ 
Friday, October 15, 1999 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



Trustees to meet with SMC students 
By MOLLY MCVOY 
Assi~t;mr Spons Ediror 
As the student body pre­pares for a break, Saint Mary's Board or Trustees pre­pares !'or work. 
The trustees arc on campus this week for one of their thrcfl meetings held every academic year. The board will not only deal with typical m1rnting issues, but also will hear directly from the student body. 
"The truslcr.s want to know what the student's life is at Saint Mary's," said Manmila llernandez, student trustee. ''Saint Mary's is focused on students." 
One of the Board's main gonls this yfHtr is to improve studnnt-trustoc interaction. On Thursday, they had lunch with the stud,int hody as a kick ol'f' for their two-day campus visit. 
lfernandn said the Board is looking into designing a stu­dcn t panel where the Trustoes can address qucs-
Group hopes to 'see' charitable aid 
By LIZ ZANONI 
New, Writer 
Notrn Dame Glnbal lleallh rnitiativn, a student dub started this year, is asking students to donat11 old eyeglasses to send to Oaxoca, Mexico, with a group of ophthalmologists this February. 
The project will take sunglass­es and prescription glasses to peopl1! in M11xico who cannot afford to see an ophthalmologist rngularly. Last year, during the medical team's first trip to 
"I'm quite happy to tell them that all ofour departments are strong." 
Karen Ristau Saint Mary's vice president 
tions in the future. 

"They [the trustees] rome for two days and are pachid with meetings," 
Hornandez said. "They real­ly do want to make time for the students. though." 
In addilion to improving student relations, the board 
has  many  topics  on  their  
agenda.  
Karen  Ristau,  the  new  

College vice president and dean of faculty. will present the status of academic life at the College. She began work at Saint Mary's in June, and since that time, has met with all of the department heads and will report her l1ndings to the board. 
"I'm quite happy to tell 
Oaxoca, ophthalmologists expected lo help. about 1,200 people. 
When more than 1,800 patients arrived to have their eyes checked, the team was shocked at how many people did not have the glasses they needed. 
The team c·ontacted the Center for Social Concerns in hopes that the University could help collect glasses for this year's upcoming trip, where they expect to assist even more patients. 
them that all of our depart­men ts arfl strong," Ristau said. "We have outstanding teachers and they're doing innovative work.·• 
The trustees spe..nt Thursday meeting with the committees on which they have members and those chairpersons will present their findings to the board on 1-<ridav. 
One of the topics that will be covered will be the Master Plan and its financing. The meeting will address three sponsors who will offer their support for the plan. This is the first time concrete finan­cial support will be shown for Sai.nt Mary's Master Plan. 
In addition to student inter­action and Master Plan financing, Bishop John Darcy will speak on Ex Corde Ecclesiae and College presi­dent Marilou Eldred will speak on the general status of the College. 
The Board of Trustees will meet again in February and April and will also have their annual retreat this summer. 
Senior Libby Balbort, presi­
dent of Notre Dame Global 
Health Initiative, said the mis­
sion of the club is to "promote 
health care as a human right." 
The club is encouraging stu­·dents to bring back old sun­
glasses from fall break and 
donate them to the people in 
Mexico. 
Boxes will be placed in each 
dorm starting this week for the 
collection. 
For more information contact 
Balbort or Kelly Hoene, the pro­
ject's chair. 

Deane: Colonization plagued Irish history 
By ERIN LARUFFA 
News Writer 
Irish history is categorized by colonial rule and peppered with political adversary, according to Seamus Deane, director of the Keough Institute for Irish Studies. 
The talk concentrated on issues surrounding British colo­nial rule in Ireland. 
"The Irish were obviously a people who were colonized," Deane said. He said that Ireland was as unique a colony in the respect that the Irish were "a white-skinned 
how did

"In Imperial Britain. it was
European Ireland ever 
people." very hardfor the Irish to produce.... Being a 
commit a crime without Yeats and 
part of Joyce [only a
being accused ofsedition. " 
Imperial generation
Britain was never easy for Ireland, s a i d Deane. The British felt that Ireland represented a empire. 
"In Imperial Britain, it was very hard for the Irish to com­mit a crime without being accused of sedition," he said. 
During the 18th and 19th cen­turies, Deane said, many Irish writers claimed that Ireland had the oldest culture in Europe. Thus, the Irish felt a pressure to belong to the local Irish world separate from the British Empire. 
"We are tit for emancipation," he said, describing a belief of many Irish people during colo­nization. 
after tho Seamus Deane famine]?" Deane asked. 

director of Keough Institute for 
T h e
Irish Studies 

threat to the 
At the same time, he said, the Irish felt pressure to belong to the greater world of the British Empire. The forces of tradition and modernity created a tension in Ireland. 
The problem of colonization still remains in Ireland today, Deane said. In one respect, Ireland was one of the first colonies to break away from the British Empire. 
However, Northern Ireland is still colonized. 
Deane touched on Irish litera­ture and how it developed throughout Ireland's blemished political history. 
"Why and 
answer, he 
said, is that 
Ireland was 
modern, not post-modern. The country, therefore, had a desire to walk into the new world. 
In Irish literature, there is also a feeling that the culture is dis­appearing, said Deane. 
"(In many Irish novels] you find somebody... unable to speak," because of that disap­pearance, he said. 
"What Irish authors are doing is to master the language that was beyond [them]," he added. 
Deane delivered his lecture, "Irish Studies: Speaking for and Spoken for," Thursday in honor of the formal dedication of the Keough Institute. 

! 0 0 II 
Pulliam Journalism Fellowships 
Graduating college seniors are invited to apply for the 27th annual Pulliam Journalism Fellowships. We will grant 10-week summer internships to 20 journalism or liberal arts majors in the August 1999-June 2000 graduating classes. 
Previous internship or part-time experience at a newspaper is desired. or other demonstration of writing and reporting ability. Those who go through the Fellowships often find new professional opportunities opening up at other newspapers during and after the program. Wmners will receive a $5,500 stipend and will work at either The Indianapolis Star or The Arizona Republic. Opportunities for online training are available, along with reporting experience at our major metropolitan daily newspapers. 
Early-admissions application postmark deadline is Nov. 15, 1999. By Dec. 15, 1999, up to five early-admissions winners will be notified. All other entries must be postmarked by March 1, 2000, and will be consid­ered with remaining early-admissions applicants. Successful applicants will be notified on or before April 1, 2000, and will be asked to respond immediately with a letter of intent, at which time one-third of the cash grant will be mailed to the Fellow.. 
lb request an application packet, visit our Web site, e-mail us or write: Russell B. Pulliam Pulliam Fellowships Director Indianapolis Newspapers 

WL'O ,ii~: \\ \\· \\',,l,1ru. w,.<.:\1111 lpj f P.O. Box 145 C-111,11,: pulh,nnta • .up.:,\ ,.1.·1,m 
Indianapolis, IN 46206-0145 
purveyors offine wine & food 122 S. Michigan Street South Bend, IN Next to the College Football Hall ofFame (219) 234-WINE 
LUNCH -DINNER -CARRY OUT 
~ Sal4d.i 4IUl iZ'44t44­
~Ptn-
1~41UlO~S~ 11~ II{ 7uu. <3U}4'U 
-?:tJO,-, (t,,ae ?~ If:OOa--I!.-00/:­
"J,u-Sat 11:001.U# -l :004Ht 

Friday, October 15, 1999

page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 

Chris McCarthy, a 1999 graduate, chops wood last fall at Glenmary Farm in Vanceburg, Ky. McCarthy was one of manyNotre Dame students who visited the farm last year and one of hundreds who participate in the Appalachia service project each year. 
Welcome Trish Fans & Family! 


256-1444 
SPECIALIZING IN ITALIAN CUISINE Southern Italian Cooking at Its finest Prepared by Francesco and Family An Authentic Taste of Italy Most Romantic Place in South Bend and Mishawaka 
Hours: 

Mon.-Sat.  5:00-10:00 p.m.  1213 Linconway West  
Sun.  Closed  Mishawaka  
Banquet rooms available  ( Francesco was a chef at ND for 30 years)  




Service 
continued from page 1 

discuss required readings on the historical context of Appalachia's problems and the Church's responses. One required text is "This Land is Home to Me," a pastoral letter by the region's Catholic bishops. 
"!The seminar's intent] really is mainly to orient them to the region," Tomas-Morgan said. "To look at Appalachia and its socio-eco­nomic problems historirnlly, and sociologically, but also to look at the Church's response to the region." 
Much of the curriculum is compiled by a stu­dent task force which oversees the program. Task force members also travel to potential sites and stay in touch with current ones year­round. 
The group is made up of former participants and has great latitude on the program's opera­tion. 
"lt's almost entirely student-run," said task force chair Rose Domingo. "They leave a lot of it up to us. We decidfi on participants; we have a lot of say on sites." 
The sites selected represent a range of social service agencies, although they all encourage the incorporation of reflection into volunteer work, Domingo said. Some students are put to work building houses. others farming and still others at taking care of children. 
"We try to give a varied approach to the problems Appaiachia faces," Domingo said. Whatever work they did have there, many 


If our delicious, flame-broiled doubl~ cheeseburger were any bigger, wed need to buy more ad space. 
participants look back at the seminar as an important part of their Notre Uamo experience. 
"It's incredible," said junior Dan Bennett. who went on two Appalachian Seminars. "It's a great week. It"s awesome." 
The feeling was passed onto others, reaching the point where program organizers say they do not need to advertise, and they oftfm turn applicants away. 
Some of these applicants, Tomas-Morgan said. are worrifid they will miss a chance to go on the trip, and miss out on a part of the expe­rience. Seniors, she said, will write on their applications, "I've heard you shouldn't gradu­ate from Notre Dame without going on the Appalachia Seminar." 
"I think that kind of sums it up," she said. "I think it has worked itself into the fabric of Notre Dame and student involvement." 


RTME 
TRED 
ow Leasi 

Nothmg t1C:1ts c_iur h1g,_iuicy Douhlc Cheeseburger. It's got the great t,1slt' ot flame broiling .incl hal' 75Q1u m< >rl' beef than Mc I )on:t!J'~ Checschurgl'r. 
!Pnce and pa,t1c1pal1011 111;; 1 va,y) Tht: Hucf,j!e -Lafortune Stwe·4 Center 

It just tastes better. 

,, Hit 

', 
I 


Friday, October I 5, 1999 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Flying dinosaur fossils found 
WASIIINGTON 

A lforco turkny-sizcd animal with sharp claws and teeth may have been the first 11ying f1\athnn~cl dinosaur, a missing link bfltween the lumb11ring lizards nl' millions nf years ago and Llw graceful uirds of' today. Fossils of' the animal. called Archaeoraptor liaoningensis, suggest that it lived 120 million to 140 million years ugo when a. branch of dinosaurs was rwolving into the vast family of birds that now live on every continent, researchers said Thursda.y. "We're looking at the first dinosaur that was capable of nying," said Philip Currir, of thn Hoyal Tyrrell Museum in Alberta, Canada, a dinosaur expert who helped ana­lyze thP new fossil. "We don't know how good a flier it was, but it certainly has all of the structuws you would expect to see in a flying animal." lw said. 
Chile asks for Pinochet's release from Britian 
SANTIAGO 

Chile on Thursday formally asked Britain to release former dictator Gen. Augusto l'inoclrnt. saying he should be allowed to rnturn home due to his deteriorating health. Foreign Minister .Juan Gabriel Valdes said the rnqLHist was made in a letter delivered to the British government, marking the first lime that Chile has formally requested clemency for its former leader. Previously, the Chilean government pressed for Pinochet's release on otlrnr grounds, arguing that he had immunity from prosecution and that foreign courts had no jurisdiction in his case. Neither of those argurnnnts. however, brought Pinochet home. Valdes said at a news conference Thursday that Pinochet's health "has had an obvious deterioration during the past month and he is dearly in no condition lo endure a long r,xtra­ditio n trial." 
Tourists filing false claims 
NEW YORK 

Police are seeing a spate of false reports from foreign tourists claiming they were muggi!d in the big city, and many of them are t(illing some pretty tall tales. The phony vic­tims "give us a Ilollywood version," says Capt. .lames O'Neill, commander of the Central Park precinct. "Something corny, like the perp said, 'Stirk 'mn up.' Nobody says that anymore." The tourists are apparently trying to get some money from their insurance companies back honrn. Many are under the impression that Central Park is akin to the Wild West. Police say at least 10 tourists have filed false mug­ging reports this year in Central Park; six New Yorkflrs also got caught. Among them, accord­ing to police: an Australian couple who falsely claimed this week that their camera had been stolen, and a mun from England who reported over the summer that he was robbed of thou­sands in cash. 
liiiiMJMM#t«I
Dow AMEx: 
785.95 
]ONES N;!:!q: 
2806.84
+54.45 

+5.57 NYSE 591.33 
-0.76 

S&P 500: 1283.42 Composite Volume:

2·13

10268.61 -1,015,492,700 
VOLUME LEADERS 
CA4i'MX  'flhl-A  \  PlM9F  SPWf91  HICI  
TYCO Url'l'L LTD  TTC  -9, 0000  -9.H  aa.oo  
INTEL COP.P  INTC  . l. 21!50  +1. 68  73. :H.  
UN?.:ITS COJlP  UIS  -15,6)00  -llS,99  26,152  
IIIC~O&OFT COJI\P  HSPT  -.3725  -.fl  90.69  
ctaco 6YflTUS  c:aco  -.Ul5  -1.33  H.39  
OLOIIA.L CIIOBSUIG  QBLX  •J.1875  +6,28  37 ,DO  
DU.L CONPU'I'&Jt  DELL  -.0975  -.n  U.!,  
Cll:NA CORP  Cl EN  -) .7!2!i  .. 1a. 55  31.81  
APPL¦ COJIPUTD  AUL  +t.1587  +H.30  73.H  
.UU:tllCA ONLlR  AOL  +I. '37'5  ., .00  11!.!0  

COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES 
CUBA 
Associated Press 

HAVANA 

Hurricane Irene dumped rain across western Cuba on Thursday, forcing at least 130,000 people to evacuate. Ranchers moved cattle to higher ground, schools and businesses closed and workers sealed warehouses storing Cuba's famous cigar leaves. 
In the western province of Pinar del Rio, President Fidel Castro met with civil defense officials about the storm, which also bat­tered Miami with rain, triggering a rash of traffic 

ENGLAND 





Countries voice dismay over U.S. vote 
accidents in the middle of Thursday morning rush hour. 
"This is not the first time a hurricane has passed over Havana," Castro told reporters Thursday evening as the storm's center passed overhead. Castro was headed into the Havana mayor's office for a brief­ing on damage. 
When the eye of the storm passed, wind and rain subsided briefly, allowing Havana residents to venture outside and check on damage to build­ings. Many rushed home from work before the other side of the hurri­cane arrive.cl and skies grew dark again. 

A hurricane warning was issued for the Florida Keys, as well as a stretch of Florida coastline from Florida City to Boca Grande, about 85 miles south of Tampa. Areas north of Boca Grande and between Florida City and Jupiter Inlet, on the east coast of the peninsula, were put under a hurri­cane watch. 
At 5 p.m. EDT, Irene was centered about 65 miles southwest of Havana, and was moving north-northwest at 7 mph. 
Irene -which had sus­tained winds of 75 mph ­
In Moscow, the Foreign Ministry said Russia was "disillusioned and serious­ly concerned" by the vote. 
It was part of a trend indicating that the United States is trying to "destabi­lize the foundations of international relations," the ministry said. 
The defeat of the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty made the United States the first nuclear power to specifically reject the 154-nation agreement to end underground testing of nuclear weapons. 
Although the treaty was signed by 154 nations, including the United 



orld 
page 5 
States, it has been ratified by only 26 of the 44 nuclear-capable states that must approve it to put it into force. 
Britain and France, Western Europe's only nuclear powers, last week joined with Germany in a special appeal to the Senate not to reject the treaty. 
"We hope that what hap­pened in Washington yes­terday is not the end of the road," a spokesman at British Prime Minister Tony Blair's 10 Downing Street office said today. He spoke on condition of anonymity. 
Associated Press 
LONDON 
Russia today accused the United States of undermin­ing world stability and countries around the globe expressed dismay at the 
U.S. Senate's defeat of an international treaty to ban underground nuclear test­ing. 
India, whose neighbor Pakistan is also armed with nuclear weapons, said it was still committed to signing the treaty, but many observers believed that Delhi will now feel less pressured to sign the anti-nuclear testing pact. 
There was no immediate reaction from Pakistan, which is in the midst of an army coup. 
NATO's new secretary general Lord Robertson said the Wednesday night 48-51 vote largely on party lines was very worrying and appealed to Congress to rethink the move. 
"We have to persuade the American Congress that this is in the interest, not only of the internation­al sector, but also the United States and I hope we can do that and this is not a permanent position," said Robertson. 

was expected to hit the Florida coast Sunday north of Tampa with winds near 95 mph. Forecasters predicted a potential 13-foot storm surge in Tampa Bay and up to 20 inches of rain. 
There were no immedi­ate reports of damage or injury in Cuba or Florida. In Havana, there were scattered reports of dam­age to buildings in Old Havana. 
In Cuba, government­controlled television showed Castro congratu­lating authorities on their "organizational capaci­ties" during a tour west of Havana. 
--· . -·­
page 6 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, October 15, 1999 
......... ,. .. . 
Pfanisf Etnrit~lihi Sch~~h;'vJilf~[;y&;m from· 
1:30 p~m. to 4:~0 p.m. ~m Frida 0/15 . 
. Dick.Vitalewtll:he signihfcbp •. ~-College Basketball Magazine on Friday, 10/15 from 2 p.m,, to 4 p.rp,/ , 
1967 ND football captain and 4-time Super Bowl star, Rocky Bleier, will be signing copies of, Fighting Back, on Friday, 10/15 from 2 p.m. to4 p.m., and Saturday, 10/16 from 10 a.m. to 12 p.m.c 
Also on 10/ l 5, pianist Christian. Parilla will 
perform from 6p.m. t() 9 p.m. ­
Pianist Christian Parillawilf perform from 10 a.m. to I p.lJl. and 7 p.m. to 10 p.m. on Saturday, l Q/16>; 

The Junior League of~outh Bend will .-be pr<:seming ~t,~ting frgµ1 their award­winning cookbook, Great Beginnings, 
GrandFinales, ay, 10/16 from 

Pianist Seu:.mis-Higginiwill also be perform­ing from 2_p.m. JO 4 P·n:1· on Sunday, 10/17. 
ning copies of, A 
day, 10/19 from 
igning copies of, God 
:·l,qt20 at 7p.m. 
?it> . 
e sighing copies of his eJo.hn Paul.II, Wi'tness 
10/25 at 7 p.m. 
-:~:.. ,._,;~ 
,:..-:_,, 
,, '.·.:):n:.:{~'.:i 
DAME 
fi N ·-. 
CK CENTER 
phone: 631-6316 • www.ndbookstore.com 
---.....-----------------------­
pagc7
Friday, October 15, 1999 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE. 


Coach Ara Parseghian 
will be signing copies of, 
Notre Dame's Greatest 
Coaches, on Saturday, 
10/16 from 10 a.m. to 
12 p.m. 100% of the 
proceeds from the sale of 
this book will be donated 
to the Ma'0Parseghian 
. , r· 
Niemann~ Pick Foundation. 
FooT BALL WE ·­
~ 

GREATEST COACHES 
ROCKNE LEAHY 
PARSEGRIAN HOLTZ 
MOOSE IIAUSE 
AND NEW YORK TIMES BESTSELLING AUTHOR 
STEPHEN SINGULAR 

. 

Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore:, , . ,_-_-._ ':Tote _
n_._-_•_• 
Friday, 9:00 am -10:00 pm () a.in ~l§:bO ---___ · ­
--• ----· ::?fi,-_ ·o·o_,,_ -_ i+ -_
Saturday 8:00 am.., 10:00 pm :. -_---)'>l, .•-,,pm,>.
,:,:; .. ,,:,;_ ·:-.,. :,., 
Sunday 9:00 am -10:00 pm 0 am -'2:00 pm, 
. .. . ., . .. 
F 
page 8 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, October 15., 1999 
that we get to see and do here," "I think we can honor our said Tubay. "I was even able to democracy and help our party if
Gore
Rojo: Mistral's works 
get my picture taken with him we could pick a different issue continued from page 1 afterward." each week and address them," Although Gore did not go into he said. "The progress we've
relate to life experience 
excitement at the opportunity to depth on any one particular made for women's rights in this 
attend the speech. issue in the speech, he did men­century is only the beginning of "It's amazing, all the opportu­tion civil rights and women's what we are going to do." 
"which cannot be understood 
nities we have and the things rights.
By COLLEEN GAUGHEN 
if it is not put the context of 
News Writer 
her life's events." According to Rojo. placing her poetry in 
Chilean poet Gabriela context is essential in under­Mistral wrote feminist and standing the themes in the radical poetry with a "spiritu­poetry of Mistral, such as the alism" inspired by her own displacement and emotional­life's experiences, said Grinor ism of her poem Rojo. Rojo, a professor from "Desolaci6n." Universidad de Chile, focused The poetic motifs Mistral on Mistral's artistic influence centered on in the last stage in his talk, "Summa of her life, he said, included Mistraliana." confusion, exile, motherhood 
Rojo discussed the three and femininity. These motifs 
majors liter- were all con­ 
ary periods of Mistral's life: her  "Her poems were a result ofgreat tensions and  ceived while coping with the suicide of  
youthful  centered around the  her son Juan  
anti-clerical radicalism, h e r  notion that the sanctity oflife begins with  Diego 1943, two  in just years  
Marianist  maternity."  before  
ph ilos ophie  Mistral  was  
animism and her mourn­ Grlnor Rojo  awarded the Nobel Prize  
ful feminist  professor  f  o  r  
spiritualism.  Literature.  
"  H  e  r  Designed to  

poems were a result of great foster the discussion of Latin tensions," said Rojo, "and American literature. the lec­centered around the notion ture series will feature a vari­that the sanctity of life begins ety of literary critics with an with maternity." emphasis on the literature 
According to Rojo, although from the southern cone of she had an acute sense of Latin America. maternal ideology, Mistral's Rojo's lecture was part of poetry, particularly her lulla­the inaugural Robert O'Grady bies, are not as docile as they Latin American Literature have been interpreted in the Lecture Series. The series is past. sponsored by Robert O'Grady, 
"Nationalism is a major a 1963 Notre Dame graduate component of her work," who recently donated a pri­explained Rojo. In addition to vate collection of books to the her almost populist attitude University on 20th century toward Latin America, Mistral Argentine author Jorge Luis also exuded a specific expres­Borges. O'Grady has also sion of her devotion to Chile, served on a number of Notre specifically to nature, in her Dame committees, including poetry, Rojo said. the international advisory 
"Her spiritualism was of committee. His wife, Beverly, great importance," said Rojo, is a graduate of Saint Mary's. 
Castl~'Poiot 
Apartment~ 
Cleveland and Ironwood Roads/18011 Cleveland Road/ South Be'hd, Indiana 46637/ (219)272-8110 
New Castle Point Seleet Units .Available for Next Semester 
*Within minutes of campus* 
• 
Renovated, spacious one and two bedroom apartments, some with lofts 

• 
Includes membership in the new 


Castle Point Racquet Club and Fitness Center 
Irish Country Bed & Breakfast Registry 
"'UIM!re ff<'« ·a 4~'4'/4 ~ a /da,a to-4UU!·" 
16901 Jackson Road South Bend Call: (219) 255-1516 Fax: (219) 257-4193 
Web: www.irishcountry.com 

PRTRICK SHEEDY 
HRPP'I BIRTHDR'I! 
The Office of International Student Affairs at the University of Notre Dame 
proudly presents a 
Piano Recital 
by 
HansjOrg Koch 
Friday, October 22, 1999 Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
8:00 pm Free and Open to the Public 
•
He will be performing: 
J.S. Bach: French Suite B-minor 

L. Beethoven: Sonata Op. IOI R. Schumann: Humoreske Op.27 
Ha,v;jiJrg Koch is a faculty member 
~\ \ndoneo . 
of the STAATL.HOCHSCHULE "'-'$>
~~'I 
FOR MUSIK in Freiburg, Germany. 
~ .,.~
cf§ '. cf) 
His repertoire includes music from 

<.!:>. ::c:=,­
all periods and styles. He performs as a soloist as well as with various chamber-music ensembles. He is a founding member of the group LA TACHE, a piano-cello-clarinet trio. 
f!e has won several prizes in piano competitions and performed in many countries worldwide. His most re­cent tour included lecture/perfor­mances in Bandung, Indonesia spon­sored by the Gl:rman government, and recitals in Berlin and Freiburg, Gennany and at the Eastman School ofMusic in New York. 

Friday, October 15, 1999 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Fate of facilities keeps blind employees waiting 

Inspired by the magnificent setting, a contemporary country estate on 72 rolling acres 
LaPorte County, Indiana -30 minutes from Notre Dame 
Beautiful country 
Contemporary design graces this 6200 square foot residence on 72 rolling 
acres in the scenic Moraine district of Northwest Indiana. Built to be in har­
mony with it surroundings, this inviting home just ninety minutes from 
Chicago is surrounded by a spring-fed pond, a running stream and acres of 
open, grassy fields, ravines and horse/walking trails in the breathtaking hard­
wood forests. Glass walls throughout the home create a continuous 360-degree 
panorama of this magnificent setting. 
The custom-built residence with beautiful cherry, hickory and oak cabinetry, has a welcoming great room with a cathedral ceiling and a fireplace, a large country kitchen with two expansive outdoor decks, a private study and a formal dining room. There are five bedrooms, five full baths, two powder rooms and a large family room with awall of glass and access to the grounds. 
A spacious, private guest quarters and an oversized three car garage add to this home' many features. In addition, there is an equipment barn and a three bedroom guest or caretaker home. The equestrian facilities include a 7-stall horse barn with heated tack room. 
National Industries for the Services Administration to 
Associated Press 
Blind. the parent organization reconsider. for 88 associations that pro­GSA is "turning back the
WASHINGTON 
vide jobs and services to the clock" to mid-May, before theThe government's temporary blind. But "there is still uncer­facilities were set to close,decision to keep eight supply tainty." Administrator David Barramfacilities open may save the The facilities, which distrib­said Wednesday. 
jobs of 1,400 blind workers. 
ute products made by the But the agency, the govern­But advocates for the blind blind to federal agencies, were ment's landlord and purchas­arc not cheuring. 
to begin closing this month. ing agent, has not necessarily
"It's a good move in the 
But unions for 2,000 other decided to keep the depots
right direction," said Jim 
federal workers at the facili­open. The administration must
Gibbons, president of the 
ties persuaded the General find a way to make the facili­

since.1981
"S.:rjbenince-:7h"';r .kea,:P .~,;wrt /llom,e, {;'(f(JA.l'd.._%1/ia,rt .,f!k:a/,r:'' -/"" 
-;i' 
Vea~ Chicken, Prime Rll, Puta ttn. Risotk>i Fottucclnl Alfredo and,Seaf!)qdblshes 
f!u1c:K CAu 
233-6000 
r------------------, 
-ND 10 Michiana Regional ! $1.000FF Airport : EACH TRIP 
I 
One Person $8 
: QUICK CAB 
More than 1, $5 each 
: 233-6000 
-ND to Entertainment Area 
L-----------------­
r------------------,
One Person $5 
More than 1 , $2 each $1.00 OFF -Waiting Time 10-15 Minutes EACH TRIP 
QUICK CAB
We Appreciate Your 233-6000Business! 
L-----------------­
ties, which lose $100,000 a day, more economical, Barram said. 
"We will rejuvenate our partnerships with our unions and have an important, honest discussion with them to exam­ine the problems and direc­tions in our distribution sys­tem,'' he added in a state­ment. 
Gibbons said the decision gives blind advocates more time to find other outlets to sell their products -from computer disks to mops ­possibly using e-commerce. GSA is assisting with an online store. 
Adhering to a 1938 law, the government gives special con­sideration to organizations that sell products -of com­petitive price and quality -­made by the blind. This group's unemployment rate is more than 70 percent, advo­cates for the blind say. 
Last month, Barram said GSA would review the clo­sures' effect on blind workers and make sure "we dido't do anything inadvertent." 
He expects the GSA and the unions to come to an agree­ment on the fate of the supply facilities by the end of the month. 
Baird aWarner 
Offered at $2,200,000
Residential Real Estate Since 1855 
Exclusive Affiliate of Christie's Great Estates 
Linda A. Shaughnessy 312/988-9799 -telephone lshaugh107@aol.com -email 


• ' _r , ' , I • . . I , / I' / .• 

Friday, October 15, 1999 
page 10 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

•. 
• ' 
I 
. ' 
• 
. 
•
' 
. ' 
• 
.' 
.
. . 
' 
. ' 
' 
. . 
' 
• 
' 
' 
' 
' 

' 
' 
' 0MPU5 
fv11NISTRY 
Dear Alumni & Friends, 
The staff of Campus Ministry extends an invitation to come together and celebrate the Eucharist this weekend. 
USC Football Weekend October 16-17, 1999 
Saturday Vigil Masses 
Basilica 30 minutes after game Ste;pan Center 45 minutes after game 
Sunday Masses 
Basilica  s:oo, 10:00 am & 11:45 am  
Sacred Heart  6:00, 7:00, 8:00,  
9:30 & 11:00 am  

Friday, October 15, 1999 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Hunter admits mistakes in JonBenet investigation 
grand jury investigation into the there is work to be done. We find "The case is tragic," said Kathy live with the guilt the rest of their 
Associated Press 
slaying did not fmd enough evi­no reason to give up heart, we Minter, 49, who has lived in lives. I don't think there is a dence to charge anyone. find no reason to quit, and we Boulder for 13 years. "I think crazed killer running around." 
. BOULDER, Colo. 
"If I had to do it again, I might plan to continue with diligence everyone mess.eel up -the Early on Dec. 26, 1996, Patsy District Attorney Alex Hunter do it a bit dillerently," he said at the effort we believe has been police, the media, the tabloids, Ramsey told police she found aacknowledged Thursday that a news conference Thursday. "I under way since the beginning of the Ramseys and the district ransom note demanding"mistakes were made" in the thought I might smoke the killer this case," he attorney's $118,000 for her daughter's safeinvnstigalion into the slaying of out, and 1 didn't." said. office. It's very return. Eight hours later.
JonBenet Ramsey hut fiercely Hunter refused to discuss the Gov. Bill "IfI had to do it again, I sad." JonBcnet's father, John. said hedefonded his office and said he is grand Jury's investigation, includ­Owens said he Some people found his daughter's body in the
by no means done soarching for might do it a bit
ing why JonBenet's parents were may appoint a defended basement. 
tl111 6-year-old beauty queen's not called to testify. special prose­differently. I thought I Hunter and A month and a half after thekiller. 
"I have an aching heart about cutor to review might smoke the killer accused police slaying, Bunter assembled alie also said the girl's parenl'>, where we are with this case, but the evidence. of bungling the dream team of prosecutors and
.John and Patsy Hamscy, remain out. and I didn't. " 
by no means do I or any of the Police Chief case and mis­advisers. including crime sceneunder suspicion and "have not men who see at this table feel a Mark Beckner handling the analyst Henry Lee and DNAbPen eliminatnd from the investi­sense of failure," Hunter said, planned to Alex Hunter evidence. expert Harry Scheck. 
gation." 
nanked by prosecutors who have issue a state­"Hunter got The investigation soon became
Hunter faced a barrage of criti­district attorney
been consulting on the case. ment latPr stuck with a bogged down with infighting
cism after announcing 
"We will continue to follow the Thursday bad case, and between his office and police. 
WPdnesday that a 13-month evidence in this case as long a.s afternoon. so did the grand jurors," said Police were accused of mishan­
Angry callers lambasted Emily Brown, who was playing dling the evidence and allowing Hunter during morning radio ,with two children outside the too many people to have access talk shows. demanding to know Boulder County Justice Center, to the crime scene, and Ilunter why no one has been charged in where the grand jury met. "It was accused of trying to protect the nearly three years since upsets me. I think it's pretty obvi­JonBenet's wealthy and influen­JonBenet was killed. ous who did it, but they'll have to tial parent'l. 

RI January 5-9, 2000 '-III 1 I I I' 0 I SOCl-'L CONCERNS 
Earn Theology Credit 

5-Day Immersion into 
The Border Culture 
Designed To Allow The: 
-partlclpaUon In dimensions of the immigratlon expeMence 

~xamlnatlon of social, cultural and I ntemational forces at work on the border 
-<levelopment of an educated 
cormiunily on border issues 
through discussion, reflection 
and faith sharing 
Applications Available at the Center For Social Concerns Due October 26 
Clinton remains 'mum' in Jones case 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton said Thursday he will keep mum ­for now -about a judge's deci­sion that he must pay a fine for lying in the Paula Jones sexual harassment case. 
"When I am out of office, I will have a lot to say about this," Clinton said during a White House news conference. "Until then, I'm going to honor my commitment to all of you to go back to work," and leave the Jones and Lewinsky sex controversies behind. 


In July, U.S. District Judge Susan Webber Wright ordered the president to pay about $90,000 for "false, misleading and evasive answers" in his January 1998 deposition in Jones' sexual harassment law­suit. 
In that deposition, Clinton denied a "sexual affair" with former White house intern Monica Lewinsky. 
Clinton's lawyers said he will not challenge Wright's findings, and Jones' lawyers said they will not seek more money. 
With an edge of anger in his 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service: 


$2.00 , Appraisals large and small 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 
voice, Clinton said he is deliber­ately, i( uncomfortably, keeping quiet. He has denied he proposi­tioned Jones in a Little Rock, Ark., hotel in 1991, while he was still the state governor and she was a state employee. 
"I haven't challenged any­thing, including things that I consider to be questionable, because I think it is wrong," Clinton said. "The American people have been put through enough and they need every hour, every day, every minute I can give them thinking about their business." 
Jones lawyers' drew Lewinsky into the case in an attempt to show a pattern of sexual mis­conduct by Clinton. Independent Counsel Kenneth Starr then picked up the trail, and his investigation of Clinton's rela­tionship with Lewinsky led eventually to Clinton's impeach­ment by the House. He was acquitted by the Senate. 
Last year, Clinton apologized for his behavior and pledged to return to work. 
"Until I leave here, as I under­stand it now, all this is finished and I don't have to comment on it," Clinton said Thursday. 

HOME OF THE ORIGINAL... 
Stuffed Pizza 
Come and Enjov One of The Area's 
fine Piua and Pasta Houses 
Located behind Hacienda in the 100 Center, Lincolnway W., Mishawaka 
Hours: Mon.-Thurs. 5-10 PM Fri. & Sat. 5-11 PM 
254-9177 

VIEWPOINT 
NHE 
page 12 vnSERVER Friday, October 15, 1999 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, No<rc Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Michelle Krupa 
MANAGING EDITOR  BuSJNF.SS MANAGER  
M. Shannon Ryan  David Rogero  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  
Laura l'erelle  

NEWS EDITOR: Tim Logan V1~-wr01NT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughen SPORTS EDITOR: Brian Kessler 
SCENE EDITOR: Michael Vanegas SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Dalum 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Bryan l...ut1. 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Bret Huelat SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers WEn ADMINISTRATOR! Erik Kushto 
CONTROLLER: Timothy Lane GRAPHICS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 
FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................63 \ .6900/ 8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AsST. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................ 63I-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu 
SPORTS........................................................631-4543 
observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE .........................................................631-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MAR.v's............................................. 63I-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at hnp:!lobserver.ndedu for daily updates of campus news, spores, fearures and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
minure forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rares of print ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
to meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. Acting as pub­lisher ofThe Observer, the administration of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac prohibits the adver­tisement of alcohol and The Observer's acceptance of advertisements from specified types of groups. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of rhe majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letrers and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Questions rrgarding Observer policies ,houU be direct­ed to Editor in Chief Michelle Krupa. 

In a Sept. 30 letter to The Observer, economics professor James Rakowski cited my references to the focus in Catholic social teaching on the problem of the gap between rich and poor and concluded that such a focus "seems to dispar­age the focus on improving the lot of the least well off" and thus is "extreme." This is a severe charge; it is also a misplaced one. 
Rakowski then takes the philoso­pher John Rawls as his guide to priori­tizing among differ­ent options for rich and poor incomes and asks, "I wonder what Whitmore's rankings would be and whether he would consider me out of step with the Church's social teach­ing." I will address the charge of dis­paragement in this column and engage the conversation with the Rawlsian pri­orities in the next one. 
The leap from observing that I cite the social teaching's references to the rich-poor gap to the conclusion that I and the teaching "disparage" efforts to aid the poor is a big one indeed, and the question arises as to how Rakowski makes this jump. This is particularly the case given that in several places in my columns I have emphasized the degree to which Catholic social teach­ing affirms the role of profit in increas­ing overall wealth in a way that aids the less well-off. 
Rakowski indicates that he is a regu­lar reader of my columns. After the ini­tial piece introducing my column last year, the very first column I wrote was on John Paul H's distinction between the legitimate market economy -one that is limited though cultural and juridical means -and the unlimited market of what the pope calls "capital­ism," where profit is the only measure of well-being. I wrote that this distinc­tion clarifies how John Paul can say "both that the 'Church acknowledges the legitimate role of profit' and that it is 'unacceptable to say that the defeat of so called real socialism leaves capi­talism as the only model of economic organization."' The entire series of columns last year was based on this distinction and Michael Novak's failure to make it. 

The first column this year critiques the practices of some corporations, but so that readers do not misinterpret, I wrote, "Now, it is important to point out that Catholic social teaching does in fact support the creation of wealth that occurs in the market as a genuine good" as long as it serves the common good and individual interest "insofar as it is consonant with the common good." 
The second column, the one that Rakowski most emphasizes in his letter, in fact makes the case that companies that absorb some of the cost for creat­ing good working conditions will actual­ly have a larger market because, due to the fact that they pass on less cost to the consumer, they will sell more goods. The argument is that in this case paying attention to the rich-poor gap is more productive -and more beneficial to the less well-off -than a view that pays attention to profit alone. 
In light of such textual evidence, how Rakowski moves from the observation that I, "on a couple of occasions," dis­cuss the rich-poor gap in Catholic social teaching to the charge that I and the teaching "disparage" efforts to improve the lot of the less well-off may be per­plexing. However, further examination may get at the heart of the matter. It may be that he is• committing what can be called "the binary fallacy." The bina­ry fallacy occurs whenever a person assumes that there are only two options for addressing a problem and that those options are mutually exclusive. 
Therefore, if I or Catholic teaching refer to the rich-poor gap at all, we must necessarily be disparaging the production of wealth as an option for aiding the less well-off. 
As we have seen, however, Catholic teaching combines both concern for the rich-poor gap (sometimes called dis­tributive justice) and the production of wealth (through commutative justice), and makes the claim that to exclude one or the other is to truncate the options. Again, the case that I was making was that attention to the gap can have the effect of increasing overall wealth. 
Traditionally, classical liberal eco­nomics has emphasized market com­mutative justice at the expense of dis­tributive justice and classical socialism has made the reverse mistake. This is why Catholic teaching finds both to be wanting: They both tend to commit the binary fallacy at the expense of the least well-off. From this viewpoint, it is Catholic teaching that is inclusive of perspectives and therefore moderate, whereas classical liberal and socialist economic theories are narrow and "extreme." Rakowski's misinterpreta­tion of Catholic teaching is one com­monly made by classical liberal econo­mists, made possible by an exclusive and extreme perspective. 
Rakowski's appeal to Rawls is inter­esting, because Rawls attempts to com­bine production of wealth and rich­poor gap concerns in his "difference principle," which basically states thath' any change in policy must be to the most advantage of the least well-off. There are intriguing points of contact between this principle and the Church's "option for the poor," and a literature has developed on the issue of the over­all compatibility of Rawls' political phi­losophy and Christian ethics. 
The ongoing richness of that conver­sation, however, depends in large part on the primary interlocutors taking care in interpreting and understanding each other's arguments. To the extent that he makes the charge that Catholic teaching and I "disparage" the produc­tion of wealth to aid the poor, professor Rakowski appears to commit the binary fallacy and grossly misinterprets what we are saying; to the extent that he appeals to Rawls, he avoids the binary fallacy and provides an interesting partner for a conversation to be taken up next time. 
Todd David Whitmore is the director ofthe Program in Catholic Social Tradition and is an associate professor in the department oftheology. His col­umn appears every other Friday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 
-:==========~~~=====~-E-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--,vr~=========:::-i 

i-------:~-----il;i.iii,...,li,.J-Jj---ilAAil.......,___. 
OUR COMPANY NEWS-~ I'VE NEVER THOUGHT { THANK GOOONE5S LETTER 1-\AS REPORTS ; OF TH£5E CN'.f'\E5 MY PARENTS RAISED
1 
OF BIZARRE WORK-I BEFORE, BUT NOW : ME TO BE LAZY. PLACE CR.IMES. I I HAVE THE URC:,E TO ~E A COPYCAT. 
E 
8 
i 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"God does not ask your ability or your inability. He asks only your availability." 
Mary Kay Ash founder, Mary Kay cosmetics 

~ u ca 
VIEWPOINT 
Friday, October 15, 1999 OifstRVER page 13 

As a Type I diabetic for 10 years, I enjoyed reading about other students living with the disease in last Friday's article. However, r did not enjoy the way the article inaccurately described how one "gets" juvenile or Type I dia­betes. 
Within the pancreas, cells called the islets of l,angcrhorn produce insulin, which is a hormone and not a sugar as lhc article stated. Insulin acts as a "key" and in effect "op~ns" the cells of the body to allow the glucose found in food to enter in. Without insulin, this sugar remains within the blood stream and elevates the blood sugar levels. 
For some unknown reason, these insulin-producing coils are recognized as foreign cells by the diabetic's body and arc killed. As a result Type I dia­betics must inject insulin multiple times a day in addition to testing their blood sugar levels which helps deter­mine how much insulin to take. 
I also wanted to make the distinction between Type I, or juvenile, diabetes and Type II. or adult, onset diabetes. Type II diabetes is predominantly diag­nosed in overweight people over 40. These diabetics still produce insulin. however it is not of the same quality as the insulin produced by non-diabetics. Usually, Type II diabetics control their diabetes by changing eating habits and taking pills. 
Lindsay Frank Junior Howard Hall October I I. 1999 
'Coming Out Day' sends wrong message 
Returning to campus for the Arizona State game last weekend, I picked up a copy of The Observer to refresh memo­ries of campus life. What I found was not so refreshing. As a grandparent with four grandsons, I was strongly favoring a Notre Dame education because of the values -both moral and ethical -that I remember being taught here. After reading the article on tail­gating, I am not so sure. 
Molly McShane should be ashamed to write: "Free beer and the opportunity to consume it excessively" is what "gets hundreds of people up and out of bed Saturday mornings." She writes this as though it is the preferred behavior for Notre Dame students. I truly hope that it 
Overpopulation scare lacks compassion 
In response to Ms. Brooke Warner's letter "Dangers of overpopulation must be heeded for survival," I wish to proud­ly claim my status as one of 10 children and denounce her uncompassionate views, After reading her critique of the usefulness of foreign aid, I was insulted by her claim that help now (often in the form of "extra grain") simply leads to larger issues and increased suffering in the future. I presume that Ms. Warner has not gone to bed hungry often. She probably does not take time between classes to put food on the table. Whether or not she has been confronted with extreme levels of poverty, I do not know. If so, I contend that she has not absorbed these experiences, 
Ms. Warner blames advances in agr.i­culture for overpopulation. Yet, she fails to offer a suggestion of what to do with the "extra grain." Is she willing to allow Third World countries to continue to is only "hundreds" that are so motivated on Saturday morning, 
Senior Katy Fallon should consider what she has learned here when she states: "Only at Notre Dame would peo­ple get up at the crack of dawn so they can puke before high noon." In four years, did she not learn anything about controlling excessive behavior? 
Come on Notre Dame, I expect stu­dents here to be a cut above the binge drinking mentality at other schools, 
Leo Sandmann Class of 1956 October 11, 1999 
starve simply so we don't "worsen their situations?" Is she advocating the stock­piling of resources in order to limit the percentage of the world's population that can bear children and live a healthy and prosperous lifestyle? 
I will celebrate what the Zero Population Growth interest group nega­tively terms, "Y6B." On Oct. 12, the world's estimated population reached 6 billion, while the United States nears 274 million. Though my family of 12 undoubtedly consumes more grain than most others, 1placate that with the fact that we all can put forth efforts to solve these social ills that "threaten" Ms, Warner. 
Shaunri Althoff s~nior Walsh Hall October 11, 1999 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
We need to deconstruct myths about diabetes 
got issues? 
observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu 
Mary Crawford Junior Saint Mary's College Ocroher 11, 1999 
E 
D
w ceneN 
O
THE page 14 BSERVER Friday, October 15, 1999 

By MARY ANNE LEWIS 
Scene Writer 
Reverend Stephen Badin bought several hundred acres of land in Indiana. It included three small, run­down buildings. He left it in trust to the Bishops of Vincennes, Ind., for the purpose of a school to be founded on that site. 
Father Edward Sorin and his companion Brothers of St. Joseph dreamed, worked and created a vision. A school, a purpose, three run-down buildings and some faith promised thf'm a miracle. They called the school L'Universite de Notre Dame du Lac in late November 1842, and it became an officially chartered university on Jan. 15, 1844. 
This was the origin of the beauty you see around you. Look past the buildings, past the fountains, past the trees and lakes and basilica, and look at the history. Father Edward Sorin, one small man with a great vision of an American Catholic university, looked past those small buildings. Whether he saw 200 or 10,000 students walking to class in order to learn, pray and build themselves, his dream became our reality. 
He saw his vision evolve into the nation's first Catholic law school, the first Catholic College of Engineering, the first Catholic architecture program and the first American circulating library. Even as Sorin watched the Main Building burn in 1879, he helped Notre Dame start again and continue its growth. Likewise, when students made mistakes, he helped them stand up and continue working, to build again and relearn old lessons. 
In Voss, Norway, a little boy was born. When he reached the age of 5, he came to America with his par­ents, and they settled in Chicago. The boy worked on corner lots of the city, in a cook shack of a Wisconsin lumber camp and on the galley of a Great Lakes steamer. 
In 1906, when he entered the railroad mail service, he decided to begin a four-year course in night school. After these four years of work on the rails and in the classroom, the bov decided to attend Notre Dame. He represented himself as a pole vaulter and played the role quite well. In fact, he was chosen for the All­Western end in 1912 and 1913. 
He graduated in 1914 with a bachelor of science degree and became a chemistry teacher as well as head track coach and assistant football coach under Jesse Harper. When Harper retired, this man became head football coach and director of athletics, and the world finally met Knute Rockne: 
In 1917, as he was walking around the campus fields, he saw a young baseball player casually drop kicking a football between 60 and 70 yards. This boy, George Gipp, became "The Gipper," and together, he and Rockne made foot­ball history. 
Rockne brought the Four Horsemen to Notre Dame, and the football world quickly learned to take notes when they saw the Irish play the field like no other team ever could or ever would. 
Rock's legacy may not, however, lie so much in his football genius as in his ideals. The man aimed to build up a better individ­ual, and did so through the prin·ci­ple of self-sacrifice for the sake of the group. He taught that the clean, hard way is the best way. Rock, like Father Sorin. had a vision, one of every boy having a fair chance to develop both character and manhood through sports. 

Most of all, Rockne was an example. He took the time to remember names and faces. He worked with patience, focus and anger when needed. Ile was loyal to his athletes and expected the same from them. 
He got it. In particular, he got it from "The Gipper." In 1916, George Gipp left his home in Laurium, Mich., to play baseball for Notre Uame. One day, Gipp, drop kicking a football just for the fun of it, was spotted by Rockne and soon found himself on the football field. 
"The Gipper" proved to be the most versatile player Rockne ever had. He could run, pass and punt like no other. Tn 1920, he was named the outstanding college player in America by Walter Camp, and in 1951, he was voted into the National Football Hall of Fame in 
1951. . Ironically, baseball remained his first love. Ile planned to join the Chicago Cubs after graduation, but tragedy struck the Gipp family when George, at the age of 25, caught a streptococcic throat infection. On his de,athbed, The Gipp told his coach, Knute Hockne: 
''I've got to go, Rock. It's all right. I'm not afraid. Some time, Rock, when the team is up against it, when things are wrong and the breaks are beating the boys -tell them to go in there with all they've got and win just one for the Gipper. I don't know where I'll be then, Rock. But I'll know about it. and I'll be happy. " 
On Dec. 14, 1920, George Gipp died, just two weeks after he had been selected by Walter Camp as Notre Dame's first All-American. But he wasn't done with football yet. 
The 1928 football season found Notre Dame with a disappointing record. Of the first six games, two were losses. When the team traveled to Yankee Stadium to face undefeated Army, the game looked hopeless. Rockne knew better. 
In the locker room, Rock prepared the team foi; a miracle. He told them: "The day before he died, George Gipp asked me to wait until the situation seemed hope­less -then ask a Notre Dame team to go out and beat it for him. This is the day, and you are the team." 
The first score was on a 1-yard run by Jack Chevigny. After he reached the end zone, he said, "That's one for the Gipper." Football experts said this game was the greatest show of inspired football ever played. Needless to say, Notre Dame won, 12-6. 
The legends of Notre Dame are not just figures of the past. On the 13th floor of Hesburgh Library, one leg­end works each day to further the interests of this great University. 
Father Theodore Hesburgh, president emeritus of 
Notre Dame, served the University as president from 1952 until 1987. Over the years, he has held more than 15 presidential appointments, been awarded 135 hon­orary degrees, served four popes and been awarded the Medal of Freedom, among many other honors. 
A great part of his drive comes from his focus on justice. ln the spirit of such legends as Father Sorin, Knute Rockne and George Gipp, I-1.esburgh continue to strengthen the foundation o.f this University on the principles of truth. strength, courage, diligence and faith. 
This is Notre Dame. These are the men who have · made it what it is, and who are mak­ing it what it is. But soon this responsi­bility will belong to today's students. 
Next week, during fall vacation, stu­dents will find themselves wishing they were back in Indiana, near the Golden Dome. Before them, they will have the world, with all its problems that need to be solved, Perhaps they will not readily have the solu­tions, but they do have the resources to find them because of the history that founds all that they learn each day at this University. 
Think of the faith of Sorin, the determination of Rockne, the courage of the Gipper and the sense orjus­tice inherent in Hesburgh. Every moment spent here at Notre Uame is another moment for these le·gends to build students today just as they have built this school. 
So when you ask yourself why you are here, just think about how far this place has come from those three small, run-down buildings. 
---.-.~-------Ir.JI-~------------------------------------------__,__
f I'' ' 
., j.,' 
E 
D
w ceneN 
O
THE Friday, October 15, 1 999 BSERVER page 15 
BOOK REVIEW 

S TO 
NDING CCESS 


Michael Steele biographies Knute Rockne, including those legends who were created under his reign, such as the Four Horsemen. 
Steele stories a visual Rockne 
charming photos of Knute as a "Knute Rockne: ing special attention. child. One such player is George Rockne the football player A Portrait of a Gipp. the star running back, and coach is, of course, the pri­kicker and mysterious loner.
Notre Dame Legend" 
mary subject of the book, and Gipp's bizarre life, outstanding each stage in Rockne's athletic football career and untimely progression is dutifully covered death are analyzed thoroughly ­in visual form. A well-placed by Steele. Gipp's ultimate photo or two illustrates any importance outlived him, as he and all salient characters and played a part in one of
out offive shamrocks 
players in the Rockne football Rockne's legendary. pre-game tradition. Additionally, many of Author: Michael Steele speeches a few years after the 
ByCHARLESSKRINER 
Scene Writer 
"Knute Rockne: A Portrait of a Notre Dame Legend" by Michael Steele is a pleasant combination of pho­tographs, detailed text and interview transcripts that will leave any reader with a complete picture of the man who was Knute Rockne. 
The cover of "Rockne: A Portrait ... " fittingly fea­tures a stunning portrait of the Notre Dame legend, painted by sports artist Ron Stark. Inside the book, one will find many more visually appealing pages. 
Almost every page is laden with photographs, and the reader, or, possibly, the non-reader, could derive a substantial amount of enjoyment and information on Rockne's life and career just by observing each photo. Within the first few pages. the reader is supplied with aerial photographs of Voss, Norway, where Rockne was born in 1888, and several 
gives the reader a glimpse of Rockne's life outside of football, such as his academic endeavors or burgeon­ing celebrity. But for the most part, he stays close to what defined Rockne in the eyes of most: Notre Dame football. 
Steele is in no way stingy with the details of Rockne's football career. Rockne's playing days as a star left end for the Irish from 1911 to 1913 are given considerable coverage, as are Rockne's days as an assistant to Notre Dame coach Jesse Harper from 1914 to 1917. 
But it is the 13 years of Rockne's head coaching career for the Fighting Irish that constitute the over­whelming majority of "Rockne," Steele includes the score of each game played during Rockne's coaching days (even those against such opponents as Kalamazoo and Haskell), usually accompanied by a description of the events that transpired during each of the games. Every star player is identified, with some receiv­
Rockne's teams are represent­ed by the familiar medium of the team photograph. 
The astute reader can determine the magnitude of Rockne's celebrity by observing certain included pho­tographs. For example, one can see Rockne smiling for a Studebaker automobile advertisement, posing with football legend Pop Warner or standing next to a hulk­ing Babe Ruth (who is, for some unknown reason, clad in a Notre Dame uniform). Other photographs show sides of Hockne's private life, such as portraits with his wife and a scene of Rockne playing with his children at a beach. · 
Overall, the sizeable amount of photographs func­tion effectively as either the centerpiece of the book or as a compliment to the book's text. 
Those who prefer reading over looking should not be turned off by the amount of photographs present ­the excellent text provided by Steele does not disap­point. Steele's credentials as a Rockne biographer are certainly unassailable: He is a 1967 graduate of Notre Dame, has published two editions of "The Fighting Irish Football Encyclopedia," is a distinguished profes­sor of the humanities and peace studies at Pacific University and has published a scholarly work on Rockne's life in 1983, which forms the basis for "Rockne," 
StePle covers the full extent of Rockne's life, from bis birth in Voss, Nor\.vay. in 1888 to h_is death in a Kansas field in 1931 after a plane crash. Steele gener­ally sticks to a pure. factual account of Rockne's life, but does. at appropriate times, provide a bit of analy­sis of the inner Rockne. In a similar manner, Steele 
player's death, The veracity of the legend of the "Win one for the Gipper" speech is one ofSt,eele's favorite topics in the book. An examina­tion of Rockne's coaching styles and innovations is also one of Steele's favored topics, especially the famous "Rockne shift," which made the running game so effective. 
An interesting topic addressed by Steele that is rele­vant today is the relationship between football and academics, called "the overemphasis issue" by Steele; meaning the possible overemphasis of college football in America. Steele suggests that Hockne looked at foot­ball and sport in a somewhat idealized manner ­although he was no na'if -and saw a relation between education of the mind and education of the body. Rockne neither wanted to see the abolition of sport nor the corruption and overemphasis of it. 
The final third of "Rockne" is devoted to the tran­script., of four interviews with significant people who had first-hand knowledge of Hockne: former Notre Dame student and professor Hichard Sullivan, former Notre Oame football player and athletic director Ed "Moose" Krause and former Notre Du.me football play­ers and historians Chet Grant and Paul Castner. Each of the four interviews, conducted in 1979 by Steele, provides a unique perspective on Rockne the man and the football coach. 
-
Steele's thorough text comhirn~d with the wonderful photography make "Rockne" a winning book of win­ning character. This unique combination of the visual and the textual makes Rockne a book that would fit equally well on om~'s coffee tahlP or in one's library. 
-
--------~-.-_,.__...__,___,.,._.,.__•w-••-----~,•, --~,"',•...,•,..
-.-•••• ••-•""•-------=-·.-c
"". 
\ I \ \ \ \ 
\ \ \ \ 1• 
I -I
I 
f 
I 
I page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, October 15, 1999 
AMERICAN LEAGUE CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES 
Yankees squeak past Red Sox to take Game 2 
• Knoblauch two­bagger in seventh pushes New York 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
These New York Yankees aren't just beating Boston. They're pushing themselves into the record book alongside Murderer's Row. 
Chuck Knoblauch hit a game-tying double in the sev­enth inning and scored the go­ahead run on Paul O'Neill's single as New York rallied past the Red Sox 3-2 Thursday night for a 2-0 lead in the AL championship series. 
With their 12th consecutive postseason victory, the World Series champions tied the record set by the Yankees of Babe Ruth and Lou Gehrig who swept the World Series in 1927, '28 and '32. 
David Cone rewarded all those fans wearing Coneheads on a chilly night with his best performance since his perfect game against Montreal on July 18, and the Yankees won a battle of managerial chess moves in the eighth to send Boston to its 10th consecutive ALCS loss. 
"They're a resilient team," Cone said. "I was in trouble all night. We c1;1.ught some breaks." 
Boston outhit New York 10­7, but not when it counted, going 1-for-13 with runners in scoring position. The Red Sox stranded 13 runners. 
Now the series moves north 
to Fenway Park, where it 
resumes Saturday with an 
exciting pitching matchup. 
Former Red. Sox star Roger Clemens starts for New York against Pedro Martinez. the best pitcher in the game these days. 
"It's never easy 0-2," Red Sox manager Jimy Williams said. 
Pitching for the first time since Oct. 2, Cone struck out· nine in seven innings, making just one major mistake, a two­run homer to ·Nomar Garciaparra in the fifth that overcame Tino Martinez's solo homer an inning earlier off Ramon Martinez, Pedro's older brother. 
New York's bullpen survived the high-drama eighth, which opened when Troy O'Leary connected on Mike Stanton's third pitch for a double off the wall in right-center -just inches short ofa home run. 
"You have to feel lucky when balls hit the top of the wall and stay in," Cone said. 
Then came a managerial chess game, as Boston gam­bled its entire bench. 
"We had an opportunity," Williams said. "It just didn't work." 
Jeff Nelson hit Mike Stanley on the right wrist, with Damon Buford coming in to pinch run. Jason Varitek sacrificed the runners over, and Allen Watson relieved with a 1-0 count on pinch-hitter Scott Hatteberg. 
Boston countered by having Lou Merloni hit for Hatteberg, and the Yankees intentionally walked him, loading the bases. 
Butch Huskey then hit for Trot Nixon, one of series of moves that cost Boston its des­ignated hitter. Ramiro Mendoza came in, with Donnie Sadler -the last available non-pitcher on Boston's bench -running at first for MerlonL 
Huskey struck out on a 1-2 pitch and Jose Offerman lofted an easy fly to center. Huskey had been 0-for-2 against Mendoza in his career and Offerman 3-for-10. 
Mariano Rivera, who won Wednesday's opener with two innings of one-hit relief, pitched the ninth for the save. Garciaparra singled with two outs and went to third on O'Leary's bloop single before Rivera fanned Buford on a 2-2 pitch to end it. 
With the game-time temper­ature just 53 degrees on a breezy night, Pedro wore a stocking cap as he watched from Boston's dugout, and Ramon looked much like his brother, allowing just one run and four hits in the first six innings. 
He walked Ricky Ledee lead­ing off the seventh, Scott Brosius sacrificed and. one out later, Knoblauch hit the tying double to left on Martinez's 120th pitch -22 more than he threw in any regular-sea­son start this year following his return from shoulder surgery. 
Tom Gordon walked Derek Jeter, Knoblauch stole third and O'Neill, playing fractured rib and all, delivered the go­ahead hit. 
"Looks great in the paper, but I didn't hit it hard," O'Neill said. "Today I felt really good. So much has been blown out of proportion on this (rib) thing." 
Martinez, who has struggled for much of the year, had been in an awful slump before the homer, getting just two hits in his first 16 at-bats of the post­season. But he lofted a 1-2 pitch into the right-field seats, and the Yankees were ahead. 
. Cone returns to pitch seven strong innings in victory 
Associated Press. 
NEW YORK Call him Houdini, the master of escape. 
Pitching for the first time in almost two weeks, David Cone flirted with danger Thursday night throughout Game 2 of the American League Champion­ship Series against the Boston Red Sox. 
In the end, though, he kept slipping out of the handcuffs and blindfolds and pitched seven gritty innings in a 3-2 victory that gave the New York Yankees 2-0 lead in the best-of­7 series which resumes Saturday in Boston. 
"I was in trouble all night," Cone said. 
Yankees manager Joe Torre had been trying to give Cone extra rest down the stretch after the pitcher struggled fol­lowing his perfect game on July 
18. Cone last pitched on Oct. 2 and the 12-day layoff was more than either the pitcher or man­ager would have preferred. 
''I'd rather be too rested or overly rested as opposed to the converse," Cone said on the day before the start. "I seem to work well with extra rest. I seem to respond to rest very well." 
The extra time off may have provided Cone with the reserve of energy he needed to keep avoiding disaster against the Red Sox, who kept the pressure on him all night. Except for a two-run home run by Nomar Garciaparra, Cone kept Boston at bay. 
He walked two batters in the first inning but left them stranded. He gave up a one-out triple to Jason Varitek in the second but got the next two hit­ters. There were two more hits in the third before he struck out Troy O'Leary to end the threat. In the fourth, Varitek doubled but again Cone escaped by retiring Darren Lewis and Trot Nixon. 
Cone surrendered Garcia­parra's home run in the fifth but struck out the Boston slug­ger to end the seventh, leaving another Red Sox runner stranded, and that was the end of his night. 
He threw 128 pitches, 84 for strikes. in seven innings and his nine strikeouts tied his career playoff high. He struck out nine in Game 5 of the Division Series against Seattle Oct. 8, 1995. 
Torre had anticipated an uneven start from Cone because of the long layoff. 
"I don't know exactly how he is going to start out," the man­ager said. "I sense that he will get it together, but it usually takes an inning or two to try and find his comfort zone in his release point." 
He seemed to do that quickly, though, on a brisk night. 
Cone had been something of an enigma after pitching his perfect game against Montreal. He was just 2-5 in 13 starts fol­lowing the perfecto and winless in eight starts from Aug. 14 to Sept. 25, the longest winless stretch in his career. 
"After the perfect game, I was so grounded about not having a letdown," Cone said. "Maybe I should have allowed myself to absorb and enjoy it." 
The Yanke~s certainly enjoyed his effort in Game 2. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces, The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
THE UNIVERSITY CLUB on ND  Reserve for the 2000 Football  MAC 520 Powsrbook-Y2K compli­ NEED 2 TIX FOR use.  pq,  
LOST & FOUND  campus is looking for dependable bus help. Must be able to work Fri.  Season & Special Occasions, Bedroom Suite w/Bath. Private  ant-$350. Stylewriter printer $75. Both seldom used. 287-7928  CALL MARY 219-257-1141.  dinner? mk  
& Sat. evenings. Meals provided.  Entry, 760 SF New Construction  NEED 2 USC TIX!!  
Set of keys lost outside  Apply within.  above Garage. Just 30 min. from  call Tim 634-0959  Stacie. have fun at that Alumni  
stadium Saturday. 11 found  ND, 1 mi. off US 31 S, in county.  TICKETS  gathering back home...  
please call Drew at 247-1293  219-291-3771.  SALE use GA's  
- FOR RENT  email: moby77@tir.com  WANTED NOTRE DAME FOOT­ 251-0999  Becku, hope you enjoy those fine  
BALL TICKETS  accomodations down there in  
WANTED  ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE  HOUSES HOUSES HOUSES  271-1526  GARCIA NEEDS USC TIX  Kentucky/  
HOME FOR ND-SMC EVENTS.  CALL4-2017  
FREE TRIPS AND CASH!!!  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  DOMUS PROPERTIES HAVE  SELL & BUY GA FOOTBALL TICK­ Dylan, hope the school year's going  
SPRING BREAK 2000  243-0658.  AVAILABLE 5,6,7,8 & 10-BDRM  ETS  I Need ONE USC GA  well. I'm so proud of you  
HOUSES FOR THE  277-6619  Call Tim 634-4853  
StudentCity.com is looking for  HOMES CLOSE TO CAMPUS  '00-01 SCHOOL YEAR. ONL'r' 15  Terry wants to run the 600.  
Highly Motivated Students to pro­mote Spring Break 2000!  http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/ 232-2595  LEFT. CALL 274-1501 OR 234-2436, ASK FOR  FOR SALE Elton John &  PERSONAL  Austin, have a fun week... see if  
Organize a small group and travel  KRAMER FOR SHOWING.  BC College tix  you can get to bed after midnight... I  
FREE!!  THAT PRETTY PLACE,  Best Prices  Welcome Sansones,  worry about you man.  
Top campus  Bed and Breakfas  4-6 student rental houses. Lots of  AM -232-2378  Mitzie.O'Brien's of MN, KY, IL, PA,  
reps can earn a Free Trip & over  t Inn has space available for foot­ extras. Huge Party Room.  PM -288-2726  Jamie.Go Irish!  Chicago, Milwaukee, New York  
$1 0,0OO!Choose Cancun,  ball/parent wknds. 5 Rooms with  Washer/Dryer, etc.  (Hi to Beth, Fits, K.D_, Chuck) Good  City ... Which fall break destination  
Jamaica or Nassau!  private baths, $80-$115,  Dave 291-2209.  ND football tix for sale.  Luck, J-Dawg!  does not fit.  
Book Trips On-Line.  Middlebury, 30 miles lrom campus.  AM -232-2378  
Log In and win FREE stuff. Sign Up Now On Line!  Toll Road Exit # 107, 1-800-418­9487.  FOR SALE  PM -288-2726  High-Speed Copies, Color Copies. Binding,  Alex, have fun ... play that Disney music LOUD!!!  
www.StudentCity.com or  I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME  Fax Service, R2:sum?s,  
800/293-1443  3.4 & 5 bdrm homes. T  Spring Break Specials!Bahamas  GAMES.272655,  Business Cards, Laminating,  Kelly, thought I forgot you? Have a  
all ceilings, wash/dry, walk to cam­ Party Cruise 5 Days $279' Includes  & a whole lot more  great break with Brittany. I need lo  
Browse icpt.com for  pus.  Meals!  BUYING and SELLING N D FOOT­ at  see all those dances.  
- Springbreak "2000".  call for more info.  Awesome  BALL TICKETS  THE COPY SHOP  
ALL destinations offered.•  289-4365  Beaches,Nightlife!Cancun &  GREAT PRICES. CALL 289-8048  LaFortune Student Center  Man, I'm running out of friends ...  
Trip Partic1pants,Sludent Orgs &  Jamaica·? Nights From $399!  Phone 631-COPY  Steve and Janet, good luck in holy  
Campus Sales Reps wanled  516 BDRM HOMES."00-01YR 272­ Florida  FOR SALE  Free Pick-Up & Delivery!  matrimony.  
Fabulous parties.hotels & prices.  6551  $129!springbreaktravel.com  N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS  
Call Inter-Campus  1-800-678-6386  CALL 271-9412  HAPPY BIRTHDAY!  Here's a little prayer... I left my  
800-327 -6013  68DRM$150 person.272-6306  Bill Mc.It's time you had a birthday  room in a very healthy condition.  
EARN FREE TRIPS AND CASH!!I  Sublet:  FOR SALE N.D. FOOTBALL TIX  BIG IRISH CATHOLIC FAMILY!NEED 16 G.A. TIX FOR  !hat's all about YOU. Let's get it started ... AM  There was a rather unhealthy party going on in there. Please let my  
SPRING BREAK 2000  Roomy one bedroom Campus  CALL 271-9412  USC GAME1CALL DAVE @ 773­ television work.  
•CANCUN" •JAMAICA·  View apartment:  281-7690 OR 610-971-2295  Don't get tangled in a spiderweb  
For 10 years Class Travel  $385.00 monthly.  FOR SALE  WITH ANY TIX.THANKS.  over break. Miss you girls! love the  Lifting in six hours .... I need sleep.  
International (CTI) has distin­ Call Stacy at Campus View or John  N.D. FOOTBALL TIX  Marys.  
guished itself as the most reliable  Hill at 683-5699 days;  CALL 271-9412  For SALE 2 tixs all games 272•  Mikey has just been hit. The dining  
student event and marketing orga• nization in North America  616/782-3314.  Phone Cards, 669 min/$20  6306  Spring Break 2000 Free Trips & Meals  hall is bombing the Observer. .. We will seek revenge  
Motivated Reps can go on Spring  3 BDRM DUPLEX  243-9361 or 258-4805  use GA Tickets For Sale (617)868­ Jarnaica,Cancun,Bahamas,Barbad  
- Break FREE & earn over $$$$$ $10,000! $$$$$  REMODELED 501 EDDY ST.  Beautiful brass bed,queen size.with  2071  os,Florida,Padre.Book now for Free Meals & 2 Free Trips.Book before  Kelly, before I forget... Big hello's out to your whole family. Can't wait  
Contact Us today for details!  1 Ml. FROM CAMPUS.  orthopedic mattress set and deluxe  use Ticket Needed!!!  Dec. 17 for LOWER PRICES!!  to meet all of ya.  
800/328-1509  APPLIANCES, W/D.  frame.New.never used.still in plas­ I need a GA ticket for my gradfa­ 1800-426-7710  
www.classtravelintl.com  273--8332  tic.$235 219-862·2082  ther. Please call Dave at X 3636  www.sunsplashtours.com  9021 0 returns from break Wed.  

' I 
'1 I 
Friday, October I5, 1999 
The Observer. PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
page 17 
Give away your coat... and Share the Warmth! 

SHARE THE WARMTH AND SPIRIT OF NOTRE DAME! 
The Center for Social Concerns is gearing up for another successful run of Project Warmth. Last year, approxi­
.,)1,;, i" ·••mately 1500 coats were received and distributed to sites all across the country, including the Appalachia region, Indian reservations in the Dakotas, and outreach facilities around the South Bend area. 
EVERYONE can participate! Starting October 25, immediately after fall break, collection sites spread all over 
campus will be eager to accept your coat donations. These sites include: 

-

r-----­
=pa=g=e=l=8====================================·=··=·=~=.,.=.=T.='h=e=O=bs=e=rv=er=.==S=P=O==R=T==S==============================F=r=id=a=y,=O=c=c=o=be=r=l=5=,=19=9=9 
MEN'S TENNIS 
. \ \ ~ \ \ \ \ 
'.' 
. '\ \ \ 
Sachire advances in ITA All-American championships 
----''Friday Night Live'' 
with Coach D 
starring Dick Vitale, Tommy Hilfiger, Austin Carr and the 1999/2000 Fighting Irish Basketball Team Friday, October 15th at the Joyce Center Lineu 9:30pm Gate 10 opens (First 1,000fans get a free t-shirt) 10:00pm 5 on 5 &3pt Final Four Tournament 
, 
11:00pm Final Four Champs take on the coaching staff Midnight 1999 Basketball team scrimmage 
Student Giveawavs (Must be Present to win)
-
~ :.... ' 
Opportunity to coach alongside Tommy Hilfiger andAustin Carr 1/2 court shot to win semester tuition Trip to the ND/Tenn football game (Nov. 6) Tommy Hilfiger apparel 
-
adidas apparel 

The Medical Scientist Training Program 
at the 
Medical College of Wisconsin 
offers a combined M.D.-Ph.D. degree program. Trainees receive full tuition scholarships and stipends throughout their studies. Highly qualified students with a backgro~nd in research are encouraged to apply. The training program application deadline is November 1. 
Medical Scientist Training Program
... 
Medical College of Wisconsin 8701 Watertown Plank Road Milwaukee, WI 53226-0509
l\1EDICAL 
Phone: (414) 456-8641 1-(800) 457-2TT5 
COLLEGE 
E-mail: mstp@mcw.eduOF WISCONSIN Web Site: www.mcw.edu/mstp 
This is the ninth straight year that this The ITA Grand Slam also includes the second leg of the ITA Grand Slam is tak­T. Rowe Price National Clay Court ing place at the University of Texas. Championships, the Rolex National 
Between the two qualifying tourna­Indoor Championships in February and ments and main di;aw, over 350 players the NCAA Championship in May. compete during the nine-day tourna­The women's equivalent of the All­ment, making it the largest NCAA American -the Riviera Women's All­Division I tennis tournament in the American Championships -takes place country. in Pacific Palisades, Calif., next week. 

f Join the NEW TRADITION 
:i -· ------·-···­
a 233~1000 
S LAST YEAR... DO NOT THIS YEAR.... WE ARE QUI Y BECOMING THE "NEW TRADITION " FOR ITALIAN DINING IN SOUTH BEND. 
GREAT FOOD GREAT PRICES GREAT ATMOSPHERE GREATFUN Fresh prepared Dinners, Pizza, Beverages 
Dial Phone Appetite 674·0900 Category 8466, for more info 
235 S. Michigan St. South Bend, In 46601 www.catallnoa.com dine in/carry-out reservations recommended DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND'S FINEST ITALIAN DINING 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame's top-seeded Ryan Sachire rallied to beat Arizona's Alex Aybar 6-7 (7-2), 6-1, 6-3 on Thursday in the first round of the 1999 Intercollegiate Tennis Association Men's All-American Championships. 
It was the second leg of the ITA grand slam, held at the Penick-Allison Tennis Center at the University of Texas. 
Sachire, the second ranked singles player in the preseason ITA rankings, will next face 67th-ranked Eduardo Gordilho of UL Lafayette in Friday's sec­ond round. Gordilho advanced with a 6­3, 6-4 win over Stanford's Geoff Abrams. 
Sachire is among the six seeds that 
advanced out of the first round of the 
64-player singles draw. TCU's second­
seeded Esteban Carril and Florida's sev­
enth-seeded Justin O'Neal lost their 
first-round matches. Aybar was the nation's top-ranked junior college play­er in 1997 and '98 for Tyler (Texas) Junior College before enrolling at Arizona. 
After losing the first set in a tiebreak­er, Sachire won 12 of the final 16 games to impr'Ove to 9-2 all-time at the ITA Men's All-American Championships. 
Sachire reached the final at the '98 ITA Men's All-American Championships before losing to Harvard's James Blake and was a quarterfinalist as a sopho­more in '97. 
The top seeding marks the second for Sachire in as many grand slams for the Irish senior from Canfield, Ohio. Sachire turned in his best showing over at the T. Rowe Price National Clay Championships last month by reaching the semifinals as the top-seeded player in the first grand slam of the season. 
The ITA All-American Championships have been played annually since 1979. 

.--. ~ ... ... --.,. -·-· .. . --... ~ ------.. ------... ---------------. 

..... ... ... ..... ..... ----~------------------......-­
Friday Oct~ber 15, 1 ~99 The Observer . "PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 



How high you go is up to you. 
C 1!199 by KPMG LLP, tfle U.S. member /irrn oJ KPMG tnlemafional We are an equal opportunity titnploy~r n1/Vd/v, 
As5uronce 
Tax 
At KPMC, you'll find opportunity for growth and recognition as you move up in your career. 
KPMG will be hosting a tailgate on Saturday, October 16th from 10:30 am until l :30 pm. Look for the KPMC banner and blue and white balloons in the Stadium lot next to Senior Bar. 
For more information, check out: www.kpmgcampu~.com 
-. 
-
--
It's time for clarity:· 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, October 15, 1999 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Alumni shuts out O'Neill, Keough blanks Morrissey 
second as they grabbed a touch­defense to score. Keough upped its record to 2-1-combined to keep MorrisseyByRACHAELPROTZMAN down and completed the conver­'Tm very pleased with how we 1 following a 22-0 victory over from completing a pass at the Sports Writer sion for an 8-0 halftime lead. played considering our lack of Morrissey Wednesday. end ofthe second. 
"Our quarterback, Kevin practice this season," said Lais. Keough's strong offense was Morrissey defense came on 
The Alumni Dawgs ended reg­Jones, did well," said O'Neill held back by Morrissey in the strong in the third quarter to ular season play with a win over captain Drew Lais. "We just first quarter. The Manor was push Keough back. but with a O'Neill to make increase their couldn't catch the ball." Keough 22, Morrissey 0 unable to hold on for long, as the Manor fumble and a Keough undefeated record to 4-0. Alumni came on strong offen­Keough managed to pull off Kangaroos grabbed a touch­recovery at its end zone, Keough 
Even with a high level of sively after the break to grab another shutout. this time a down and the lead. · scored again in the third. enthusiasm and a strong defense another touchdown. Down 14-0 win. Leading the Keough defense Keough scored once again at early in the first quarter, O'Neill in the fourth, O'Neill just Following an impressive tie were Travis Alexander. Paul the end of the fourth to give it a couldn't overcome Alumni in the couldn't overcome the Dawg against powerhouse Keenan. Didio and Kevin McAbce, who 22-0 final. 

nike.com 
-
-

Have you turned your prison-like dorm room into a shrine to sports? Has anyone ever eaten it attempting a skateboard trick named after
-
you? Is your school mascot or your favorite player's number one of your 18 tattoos? Whatever it is, if it combines your personality and 

0
• 
style with sports, we want to know about it. And you' II want to tell us about it if you· re into free stuff. All you have to do to get in the game is e-mail us a photograph that shows off your individual sports style. Every day four people have a shot at winning a Nike bike messenger bag. If you've got one of lhe top five images of the week you'll win a Nike Triax 300 watch. And if you really kick?#!, you could win a custom sports trip for two, to any event, any place. For more details and official contest rules, log on to nike.com/fame1S.
-
Friday, October 15, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
--. ' 
Heft 
continued from page 28 
finally come her way by the end of the year. 
She leads the Irish with 12 goals and 31 points. Her 72 career goals puts her just one behind Monica Gerado's Irish record of 73 career goals set just last year. 
!left passed Irish All­American and Herman award winner Cindy Dawes earlier this year when she scored her 62nd career goal. 
With just two more goals, Heft will become the most prolific goal scorer in the history of one of the top women's soccer schools in the cnuntry -an honor significant to Heft. 
"It would be a great honor," she said. "With the top program that it is, having Monica and Cindy, it would be a great honor to bn up there with them." 
Ileft, howevnr, is no stranger to breaking Irish scoring records. 
Last season, !left set a new standard for Irish goal scorers, netting 28 goals in 25 games. lier L 12 goals per game aver­age was the fifth highest in the countrv. 
While she was happy to break the records, Heft found the hon­ors to be bittersweet as her team struggled and failed to make the Final Four for the first time since 1994. 
"lt was really nice personally, but with the team unable to score a lot of the times when I was scoring, it kind of took away from it," she said. "So overall it was nice to get that many but with the team strug­gling, it kind of took away from it a little bit." · 
When Waldrum arrived as the head coach last spring, he tried to diversify the offense and take some of the scoring pressure off Heft. 
At first, Heft had a little trou­ble adj~sting to the new offense. Now she has found her groove in the offense and scored four goals in her last three games. 
"The thing she has done over the last few weeks is that she has found her knack for scoring goals again," Waldrum said. "In the first few games she was try­ing to find her way in our offense. The last five or six games, if you look at her stats, she's finding the net again and it couldn't have come at a better time for us." 
Heft enjoys her new role in the offense. · "It's been really great," she said. "Most of the games have 
been one goal per person with 
VOLLEYBALL
four or five players scoring. It's really nice because teams can't focus in on one player and with the scoring spread out it helps 
Irish set for busy 
me a lot." Heft has never needed much help finding the back of the net. 
schedule over break 
Her teammates and coaches say that she has a natural affinity for scoring. 
"She is very quick and has great speed," junior forward Meotis Erikson said. "I think she has a knack for being in the right place at the right time. She has a great sense of knowing where she needs to be to get a goal." 
Heft has the ability to see scoring chances that other play­ers don't, Waldrum said. 
"She is the leading scorer because she has a great knack for the goal," he said. "She puts herself in the right place at the right time. She sees scoring opportunities that other players don't see." 
At the pace that Heft is scor­ing now, she could push the standard for lrish scorers well above 80. 
Her hot streak couldn't come at a better time for the Irish as they approach their last few regular season games before the Big East and NCAA tourna­ment. 
By MATT OLIVA 
Spores Writer 
The Notre Dame women's volleyball team is set to take on the U.S. Pro-Volleyball "dream team" in an exhibi­tion match this Sunday. The two squads will square off at 2 p.m. at the Joyce Center. 
The only remaining unde­feated team in the Big East, the Irish will look to keep their winning ways in tact against over the break. After: the exhibition match-up on Sunday. the Irish will travel to Utah to play Brigham Young on Tuesday and Utah on Wednesday night. 
After fall break, the Irish will face seven Big East opponents in their next eight games. This stretch starts with two home games against St. John's and Connecticut during the weekend of Oct. 23. 
The Irish limited their Big East opponents to single digit 
scores last weekend, defeat­
ing Rutgers and Seton Hall 
-both in three games. With
THE O'NEll,1, BBOTIIERS 
the wins, the Irish improved their Big East record to 4-0, gaining sole possession of first place. 
Nationally, the Irish are also recognized. In national statistics, the Irish appear for the first time among the nation's leaders in hitting percentage, ranked 17th with a .277 average. They rank ninth overall in blocks per game with a 3.33 mark. 
Captain Mary Leffers also represents the Irish in these two categories for the indi­vidual statistics. 
Leffers, who leads the Irish in both hitting percentage and blocks per game, ranks 14th in hitting percentage and second in blocks per game. 
She currently has a .392 hitting percentage to go along with 1.92 blocks per game. Heather Wright of the University of Florida leads the country in hitting with a .468 average, and the national leader in blocks, Heather Bown of Hawaii, averages 2.3 blocks per game. 
•.
i i 
•I i
• 
•I 
•I
• 
.·~ l 
l 

·­-
"Dueling Pianos,. 
1uesday October 26, 1999 • 7:00 p.m. 
ffiuhingwn Hall atNotre D~ 

'This iiobenr.ftt concert :\doh:.,: $25 • StudMis &Seniors: $10 
AulaJrlPh Ytfj1Ullfl ll!S$iort ~ fal{(,;UI u,w,rf 
1'icketB ore lhiille4 ead awsilil.hle by pltHe-tALL! 
(219) 631-8128 or (219> ,36-4671' 
Turtle Creek 

Parking By Permit Only 
Friday 4:00 p.m. to 
Sunday 6:00 p.m. 
Towing By Mark's Towing 1505 W. Sample South Bend, IN 46619 
Brad Metz, C.S.C. • Irish Guard 1992-95 · Ordination Date: April 6, 2002 
Can you make this team? 

ANSWER * 
THECALL W 

Fr. Jim King, C.S.C. Fr. Bill Wack, C.S.C. 
www.nd.edu/~vocation 

r 
~ 
.
I page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, October 15, 1999 
I 

. 
I I I 
' 
I I I I 
I I I 
' 
I 
' 
I 
' 
I I I I I i 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
' 
t 
.I ~ 
I 
' 
t 
I I I I I 
I 
' 
I ' I 
' 
! ' ' ' 
I 
.I I 
1­
, I 
th_e S~artans out ?f scoring range, Irish linebackers Jim Lynch and Jim
Football 
Horney tackled the Spartan backs for continued from page 28 no or negative gains on 16 different ---------------plays. 
were completed. 
"They were up against everything and still managed to pull off a tie in the most nerve-wracking football game that could possibly be played," Fall wrote in Scholastic. "It was a classic in the truest sense of the word." 
The Spartans jumped out to a 10-0 lead on a Regis Cavender 4-yard touchdown run and a 47-yard field goal by Dick Kenney. 
With three of its most important starters on the sideline, the situation looked bleak for the Irish. But then sophomore quarterback Coley O'Brien engineered a near perfect Irish drive. 
O'Brien, who required two insulin shots before the game to keep his dia­betes in check. was far from an impressive physical specimen. 
"'He looks like a tumble weed being blown across a tlat prairie land. "Fall wrote in Scholastic Magazine. "No bigger than the quarterback at '.\lorth Farmington High." 
Coley led the [rish 54-yards in four plays to pull the Irish within three. An 11-yard pass to Eddy's replacement, Bob Gladieux followed by a 9-yard run by fullback Rocky Bleier moved the ball to the Spartan 34. O'Brien then lofted a perfect-pass to Gladieux for the touchdown. 
Trailing 10-7. the Irish had proven they could move the ball against the vaunted Spartan defense even without their top players. 
"As the pressure mounted -until it became almost unbearable to sit still in your seat, the Irish made all the big plays,"Falls wrote in Scholastic. 
Notre Dame tied the game on the first play of the fourth quarter as Joe Azzaro kicked a 28 yard field goal to tie the game at 10. 
The Irish defense played inspired football in the second half. Holding 
The defense made a its biggest play of the game with five minutes left in the fourth quarter. Safety Tom Schoen picked of a pass by Spartan quarter­back Jimmy Raye and returned it to the Michigan State 18-yard line. 
~espite the great field position, the Irish were unable to capitalize. Larry Conjar gained two yards on first down but on second .down halfback Dave Haley was tackled by Smith and Phil Hoag for an 8-yard loss. 
O'Brien's pass attempt on third down fell incomplete and the Irish were forced to settle for a field goal attempt. 
From 42 yards away, Azzaro's field goal try sailed wide right and the score was still knotted at 10. 
The Irish defense held the Spartans and forced them to punt. The Irish took over at their own 30-yard line with just enough time for four passing plays. . Both the \1ichigan State players and the East Lansing t:rowd expected Irish head coach Ara Parseghian to air the ball out and try for a last second touchdown. 
But Parseghian knew that a tie and retention of the No. l ranking was nothing to gamble away with a possi­ble interception. 
"We'd fought hard to come back and tie it up," Parseghian said after the game. "After all that,. I didn't want to risk giving it to them cheap. They get reckless and it could cost them the game. I wasn't going to do a jackass thing like that at this point." 
Despite the crowd's boos, the kish ran the clock out and escaped East Lansing with a 10-10 tie. 
Notre Dame remained No. 1 in polls and after a 51-0 to nothing victory over Pac-10 champion USC the next week, won its first national champi­
onship since 1949. 
Friday 
continued from page 28 
floor that they can be proud of and cheer for." 
Doherty alluded to the fact that Notre Dame used to be a school known for its strong backing of the basketball pro­gram. especially in the days when Notre Dame was a perennial qualifier for the NCAA tournament. 
Student attendance and excitement for the program has declined in recent years as the Irish have headed to the NIT for the post~eason in a good season. 
"Notre Dame has a tradition of having great crowds," said Doherty. "Back in the late '70s and '80s, it was hard to get a Notre Dame basketball ticket. I want to make it that way again." , Doherty noted that good teams and good fa_n_s tend to go together. Fielding competitive teams gets the fans excited, while supportive fans helps the team i11 close games and is a positive in the recruiting process. 
The gates -of the Joyce Center will open at 9:30 p.m. for "J-lriday Night Live," which will begin at 10 p.m. with the semifinals and finals of a basketball tournament among the men's dorms. followed by the finals or 3-point shoot­ing contest between the women ·s dorms. The first 1,000 fans in atten­dance will receive free T-shirts. 
. Dohertr and the rest of the r,oaching staff will challenge the winning women's residence hall to a 3-poiut contest at 11 :05 p.m. The staff will then play five-on-five against the top men's dorm. At 11:45 p.m., Doherty will speak to the fans and introduce the team. Oct. 16 is the first day college basketball teams are permitted to hold practice under NCAA regulations, and the Irish will begin at midnight with a 20-minute team scrimmage. 'Tm excited about getting them on the court and putting them through some drills and molding them into a team," 

FOUR FLAGS FARM 
23c.d and !Buak(a5.t 
THE KEllNERS RED BUD TRAIL NORTH PHONE BUCHANAN. Ml 49l07 616-471-571 J 
Oy Vey! Oy Vey! Look who's 20 today! Happy Birthday Pops! 
Friday Night Live 
Tonight at Joyce center 
. 
9:30 p.m.: gates open 

. 
10 p.m.: men's interhall Final Four 

. 
10:45 p.m.: women's interhall 3-point contest 


. 11:05 p.m.: 3-point contest coaching staff vs. women's champion 
. 
11:25 p.m.: five-on-five coaching staff vs. men's champion 

. 
12 a.m.: 20-minute team scrimmage 


said Doherty. 
Austin Carr, who holds the career scoring record in Irish men's basketball. will serve as one coach in the. scrim­mage. Carr scored 2,560 points for the Irish between 1968 and 19i1 and hold the NCM record for most po.ints in a tournament game with 61. 
After leaving '.\Jotre Dame. Carr played in the NBA for 10 years for the Cleveland Cavaliers. Dallas MavPricks and Washington Bullets. He now serves as the director of community and busi­ness developmPnt·for the Cavaliers. 
Fashion designer Tommy Hilfiger will coach the other section of the team as the Irish scrimmage against one anoth­er. 
The Irish have several top players back this season. Big East rookie of the year Troy Murphy returns after leading the Irish in scoring and rebounding last season. Murphy was the first freshman ever to lead the Big East in rebounding. 
Other top returnees are junior point guard Martin lngelsby, sophomore for­wards David Graves and Harold Swanagan, and senior reserves Jimmy Dillon, Todd Palmer and Skylard Owens. · 
Vitale, a sports commentator for ABC and ESPN. will also be present at "F~iday Night Live." Following the scrimmage, Vitale and Hilfiger will hold a raffle drawing for students who are present. 
HOMES FOR RENT 

-Domus Propeties has two, five, six,and nine bedroom student housing available 
-Student neighborhoods close to campus 
-Security systems provided 
-Well maintained homes 
-Maintenance staff on call 
Available for the 2000/200 I school year 

-----------------------~------------~-. 
Friday, October 15, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
.... 
CROSS COUNTRY 

Irish to run against best at pre-nationals 

By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Assistant Sports Edimr 
Tho men's and women's cross country squads take their high­est national rankings of the sea­son into the prP--national moet Saturday in Bloomington, Ind. 
The Irish face 35 of the best teams in the nation with the goul of'finishing in tho top 10. 
"We just want tu get out there and hold our own against some of the top teams in the coun­try," said sophomore Luke Watson. "Thern's some really sliIT competition." 
The womon may be missing their top runner in the meet, as All-American .JoAnna Deeter is likely to sit out because of a sprained l'oot suffered last 
Wllllk. 
"I don't want to take a risk with the Big East and regional match up with these teams," championships coming up," said Connelly. "It'll be a great said women's head coach Tim test. It really is a preview of the Connelly of adding Deeter to the national meet. l think Alison's lineup. "It won't help us, that's capable of being in the top 10 to for sure, but I still t.hink we've 15 at worst, and Jennifer's got a pretty good group. We're capable of being in the top 20 in hoping to be in the top 10 to this meet." 
12." 
Connelly plans to run seniors Alison Klemmer and Patty Rice, juniors Erin Olson and Bridget O'Brien, and freshmen 
Jennifer Handley and Chrissy Kuenster in the meet. The sev­cnth runner is uncertain, depending on whether or not Deeter is able to compete. 
"I really like lhe way we 
The women did not race last 
"There are a lot ofteams of a real similar caliber. " 
Luke Watson cross country mnner 
Now Playing in Theatres Everywhere 
weekend, but won the Notre Dame Invitational the week before, beat­ing No. 13. Missouri, who will also run in the pre­
nationals meet. 
Both the men and the women have moved up in the rankings during this season. The women began the season ranked 22nd, moved up to 14th after winning the National Catholic Invitational and have been ranked 12th each of the past two weeks. The men began the season unranked, moved up to 17th a,fter taking third in the Notre Dame Invitational and are now 14th nationally. 
"We've got to get a better per­formance out of three through seven, really out of our fifth through seventh guys," said men's head coach .Joe Piane. 
Piane is shooting for a top 10 team finish, and thinks top run­ner Ryan Shay also has a shot at placing in the top 10 individ­ually. 
"In order to get an at-large bid in the NCAAs, it's based on what teams you've beaten," said Piane. "You roll the dice, hoping to beat enough teams out of your district to get an at­large bid if you need one." 
Running varsity for the men will be junior Shay, sophomores Luke Watson and Marc Striowski. and seniors John Dudley, Ryan Maxwell, Pat Conway and Sean McManus. 
"There are a lot of teams of a real similar caliber," said Watson, "so it just kind of depends on who's having a good day and who's hav­ing a bad day." 
The course, which is five kilometers for the women and eight kilometers for the men, is a hilly and demand­ing one, according to Piane. It is the same course on which the NCAA champi­onships will be run in November. 
Belles to compete in Ohio meet 
By KAREN FINK 
Sports Writer 
The Belles cross country team will compete in Ohio at the Defiance College Invitational this Saturday morning at 11 a.m. 
This will be the team's last meet before the Michigan Intercollegiate Athletic Association conference and regional meets. 
The team is expecting a challenge on the difficult Ohio terrain. 
"This is going to be our toughest course this season," cross country co-captain Genevieve Yavello said. "There will be more hills than we're used to running, but I think we are ready for it. We can't oxpect our best times, but, hopefully, we can put forth our best efforts and do well." 
Krista Hildebrand, co-cap­tain, hopes to build on the team's recent success. 
"Finishing seventh out of 26 last weekend at the Benedictine Invitational was the best we have done," said Hildebrand. "It heightens our expectations. Hopefully, at our next few meets, we will be full force. We hope to give every­body a surprise and we keep getting stronger every year." 

Bring Dreams 
Into Focus 
Give the gift of sight by donating your old eyeglasses 
. . . ·-~,...;;:,.,.,. '"· \ /' 
Pt,/'./... ::,.~-~· • .••~:~-\. 
r' . .. •
j• • "r... , -~.r i 
~ ../ 
Eyeglass Drive 
,.~~.--.IJ',~•....•. -9:= 
.to i) ,, 
October 11th -December 1st 
-Bring your old eyeglasses and sung lasses back f ro m Fall Break -Look for boxes in dorms and around campus 
These eyeglasses will be distributed in Oaxaca, Mexico Questions or comments: e-mail Kelly Hoene at hoene.1 @nd.edu 
;~. ~; ~;:,i_-.-,) -~--~;~ t-··";_~::i(:~:~>~i
> · ~ r:arr,v_ · 
;_:,: :·: ·:Pump 
.-. Wed., 
:\..' ,... rain:
~'.' ' 
~ 
-
' ' \ .t I I \ · 
... 
Friday, October 15, 1999 
page 24 The Observer . SPORTS
f•
•
•
•
• r HOCKEY
• 
Irish head to Colorado for Icebreaker Tournament 
By BILL HART Associate Spores Editor 
After struggling against con­ferenc e rival Michigan on home ice, the Notre Dame hockey team will take to the road this weekend for non-con­fe rence action in the Icebreaker Tournament in Denver, Colo. 
Hosted by the University of Denver, the Icebreaker will be the first U.S. college hockey tournament of the season. Denver, Notre Dame, Providenct> and Union College will participate. 
Notre Dame's opponent nn Friday, Providence, advanced to the semifinals of the Hockey East tournament last season before losing to regular-season champion New Hampshire. 
While the Irish and the Friars square off in many sports during the Big East sea­son, this will be the first ever hockey meeting between the two teams. 
And although Providence defeated Qlieen 's University 8­2 in an exhibition game last week, tho matchup with Notre Dame will be its first game of the regular season. 
In last week's conference preseason poll, Providence was picked to place fourth out of nine teams -trailing only national powerhouses Boston College, New Hampshire and Maine. To maintain their solid record from last vear, the Friars will have to copy their outstanding offensive output. 
In 1998-99, Providence was ranked fourth in the country in scoring, averaging 4.18 goals per game, and finished first .in power-play percentage (.254). Still. like the Irish. the Friars were left on the bubble of the 12-team NCAA Tournament. 

Duplicating that offensive might may not be hard, consid­ering the Friars return three of the team's top four scorers from last season. The sen.ior trio of Jerry Keefe, Fernando Pisani and Josh MacNevin each tallied 50 points last season, while Keefe and Pisani were two of the top snipers in the league. 
On defense, the Friars return an experienced squad of seven players, losing none from last season. 
For the Irish, two losses to CCHA preseason favorite Michigan provided ·the team with a few positive notes. Senior center Ben Simon had a goal and an assist in the series, giving him 100 career points in 106 games. Freshman center Connor Dunlop scored in the first game of the series, becom­ing the first Irish freshman to score in a CCHA opener since 1995. 
Like the Friars, the Irish were picked to place fourth in the conference preseason poll, behind the intrastate trio of Michigan, Michigan State and 

1he Fomily5h,dies Center at the University of Notre Dome is \ooking for adult coup\es and kids (8 -16 years old) for o project about fomiUes! 
Your family will earn t,p toJl00 for your time. 
For more inf orrnation, p\eo.se co\\ louren at (Jlq) 631-qJJ7 
"Need insurance for your wheels?" 
Allstate° 
Yotireingood}JJmds. 
-

Being in good hands is the only place to be~" 
_. 
Northern Michigan. 
Notre Dame and Providence will christen the Magness Arena in the opening game of the tournament today at 4:35 
p.m. The game marks the start of the 50th anniversary of Pioneer college hockey and will be followed by the Denver­Onion game. 
The Irish then will face either Denver or Union College on Saturday afternoon. 
Last year, Denver defeated top-ranked North Dakota to earn the WCHA title, while Union College struggled with a 4-22 record in the ECAC con­ference. 
The tournament will also be the first athletic event for the Magness Arena, which opened recently after two years of con­struction. 


CERTIFIED Instructors t DESIGNER Tanning with ADVANCED TANNING Systems SUPER Size Beds & Booth& I CLEAN & SANITARY! 1 CREDIT CARDS Accepted t OPEN 7 Days 
A Futon Built Just the Way You Want It! 
500+ futon cover fabrics 20+ futon frame styles 8 grades of futon mattresses 
Fits Any Space and Every Budget! 


FUTON FACTORY 
SOFA BY DAY BED BY NIGHT 
219-273-2660 
Friday, October 15, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Underdog team faces top-ranked Santa Clara 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Associate Sports Editor 
Throughout its history, Notre Dame has gainud a reputation fur knocking off the No. 1 tnam in many sporb. 

Spectrum Sports Sale 
"Officially Licensed" 
ll-8. '~44
·c.,
Notre Dame Products 
At 
Logan Center 
-Super Specials­••Selected ND Sweatshirts $19.95 (Reg.$49.95) With Purchase•• ••Selected ND T-Shirts $9.95 (Reg. $24.95) With Purchase*• 
WM SpecialOther Football Weekend Specials 
Champion Varsity Leather Jacket... ........... (Awesome Deal) .... $299.95 $124.95 Champion ND Lightweight Jacket... ...................................... $ 59.95 $ 24.95 Selected ND Hats.....................(These Go Fast!) ................... $ 24.95 $ 9.95 ND Button Down Dress Shirt ............. (Khaki, Navy)................ $ 59.95 $ 29.95 Hooded ND Jacket with Fleece Lining .......... (Full Front Zip) .... $ 89.95 $ 49.95 
-Check Out the Great Selection of Notre Dame Products at the Logan Center­
Special Hoon For U.S.C. W~ 
Friday Oct. 16th, 9:00 a.m.-9:00 p.m. Saturday Oct. t 7th. 8:00 a.m. until 1 :30 p.m. 
*Logan Center located south of the stadium at the corner of Eddy and Juniper 
•Free gifts to first 50 purchases-compliments of Spectrum Sports (309-786-9318) 
Internet banking Checking account Overdraft protection ATM /,Debit card 
Questions? Call us at 258-3150, or e-mail us at BankOnCampus@lstsource.com. 
This Sunday, when the Throughout the '90s, they have women's soccer team takes the been one of the top teams in field against top-ranked Santa women's soccer. Heading into Clara.· head coach Randy Santa Clara to take on the Waldrum's squad will have a Broncos and their 23-game chance to add to that reputation. home-winning streak as an 
Playing the role of the under­underdog is a role the Irish are dog is unusual for the Irish. relishing, senior Irish forward 
,~ 
Jenny Heft said. 
"It's kind of nice," she said. "It's something different. We don't have the extra pressure going into the game that we have to win. They are ranked No. 1 and have the home win­ning streak so they have all the pressure on them. We can just go into the game and play our game without worrying about it." 
The Broncos, however, are not taking the Irish lightly, according to head coach Jerry Smith. 
"We know that they have an awesome team and that they are very capable of beating us," he said. "We know that this game is going to be a top matchup. Santa Clara and Notre Dame are prob­ably the two most talented teams in the country." 
After an early season loss to top-ranked North Carolina, Notre Dame has improved offen­sively and defensively. The Irish are playing better together and have grown more comfortable with Waldrum's system. 
Now they are ready to show how much better they are. 
~"­
Student Travel 
from A to Z 
Ii\
••" 
London 184 Paris 208 Barcelona 244 Amsterdam 226 
From Indianapolis l
each way based on art purchase. Fares do not include taxes, are valid for departures ~ in November and are subject to change. Restrictions apply. 
1-~00-2COUNCIL 
www.counciltravel.com 
......_________________________________________-"--_______..........., that we deserve to be ranked 

Full service, on-line banking designed especially for college students! 
Whether you're on a MAC or a PC, our easy-to­use interface makes banking on the Internet a snap. Visit us online at www.bankoncampus.com to find out how you can benefit from this innovative account 
tl/!ASOUl'Ce~

liaiBank 
Member FDIC 
"We need to show that we can play with the best;" junior for­ward Meotis Erikson said. "There's no better way to do it." 
The Broncos will be a weaker team when they meet the Irish. Santa Clara's attack took a blow this Tuesday as third leading scorer Megan Horvath tore her anterior cruciate ligament and will miss the rest of the season. Horvath started seven of Santa Clara's 11 games and scored seven goals and 20 points. 
"You don't want to lose any­one, particuraly not a starter," Smith said. "We are definetly going to miss her. That will be hard to recover from but you know that in a college season you are going to be without a player or two throughout the season. You hope that other players can pick up the slack a bit." 
The Irish learned what it is like to lose a player to injury when junior captain Kelly Lindsey went down with a knee injury in the opening game against North Carolina. Lindsey, however, has recovered and is playing at close to 100 percent. 
With Lindsey back and Anne Makinen returned to the team after missing a few games while training with the Finnish nation­al team, the Irish are playing some of their best soccer this year. They clinched the Big East Mid-Atlantic Division title last weekend. 
With a home game already assured for the Big East champi­onships, the Irish are turning their attention to gaining home­field advantage in the NCAA Tournament. 
A win over Santa Clara would do a lot for Notre Dame's post­season seeding. 
"We have something to prove," Lindsey said. "We are definetly not the sixth or seventh best team in the country. I think we are in the top four." 
The Irish hope to use a win over the Broncos as a spring­board to a high ranking. 
"We hope that we can get out and show that we are better than that [No. 6 ranking] and 
Ihigher than that," Waldrum 
, said. "But more importantly that that, we are taking the approach that a win could help us tremen­dously in the seeding process." 
Even with the postseason loaming on the horizon, the Irish are taking a relaxed attitude into the game. 
"We have nothing to worry about," Lindsey said. "I think we have as good a chance as anyone of beating them." 

.-\II Show, Before 6 PM $4.00 $4.00 Studen1s/Childrcn/Scnior~ 
$6.50 Aduh 
Stereo Surround Sound in all Theatres 
American Pie R 12:55 3:10 5:25 7:40 10:05 Bowflngllf PG-13 
12:55 3:15 5:35 7:5510:10 Double Jeopardy R ss 1:05 4•10 7:15 9:45 
2:10 s·oo s:oo 10:30 Drive Me Crazy PG13 ss 
1:00 3:15 5:35 7:50 10:00 
Elmo In Grouehland G 
1 :30 3:30 5:30 7:30 9:30 For Love of the Game PG13 12:50 3:50 7:00 9:55 
-
1:35 4:35 7:40 
Jakob !he Liar PG-13 
1 :40 4:20 7:00 9:50 
Myatery Ala•ka R ss 
1 :45 4:30 7:20 10:20 
Stigmata R 
1:10 3:35 7:05 9:35 
2:05 4:45 7:45 10:15 
Stir of Echoea R 
12:45 J:00 5:15 7:35 10:10 
Th<> 13th Warrior R 
12:50 3:05 5:30 7:50 10:15 
lOD/,I! ll~,!I ONII IC.JR OIi AWANCf 11(~£! SAIi! f•l<DIC.JI l({!J;lil! . WO mm . NO ,LJ;IIIA\115 

'\ . 
Friday, October 15, 1999
page 26 The Observer . SPORTS
' . 
Big East opponents present challenge for Irish 
ENJOY THE OUTDOORS WHILE SHOPPING INSIDE•.. ONE OF THE LARGEST FISHING, HUNTING & CAMPING STORES IN THE MIDWEST FEATURING A RIVER FULL OF TROPHY FISH AND A BEAUTIFUL SKY HOME TO A FLOCK OF GEESE! 
ALSO ENJOY ANGLERS IN RESTAURANT (LOCATED INSIDE LUNKERS) ONE OF THE BEST RESTAURANTS IN MICHIANA! 
Dine a menu of unique or traditional food items while surrounded by 21 aquariums full offish! Watch a shark swim in our 1000 gallon coral reef tank. A truly unique dining experience you won't forget. 
ITS ALL HERE AT LUNKERS! ONL.Y 15 MINUTES FROM CAMPUS STRAIGHT UP ST RD 23 INTO MICHIGAN 
I "" 
> 
' 
I I 
'. 
! I 
•
'. 
•~ •
. 
'
••j ' 
' 
'
• 
i t t ! 
~ 
MEN'S SOCCER 
By KERRY SMITH Sports Wricer 
The old adage "save the best for last" certainly rings true for the Notre Dame men's soccer team. 
With six regular-season matches remaining on the schedule, the Irish have yet to face some of the toughest and best teams in the Big East con­ference. When they take the field against the Wildcats of Villanova on Friday, lhe Irish will begin the most important stretch of the season. 
With only conference games remaining, Notre Dame's perfor­mance could make or break its chances for successful run at the Big East championship. 
"We're confident looking ahead to our next games," said defender Justin Ratcliffe. "We know they're big games but we also know that when we walk on the field we have a good chance of winning each one." 
The Irish are running with the 
momentum gained in the last 
five games. Winning four and 
tying one in their most recent 
ouiings, the Irish have not 
dropped a game since a disap­
pointing showing at the Saint 
Mary's Tournament in California 
during the last week of 
September. 
The Irish look to bolster their 
7-4-2 overall and 3-1-1 confer­
ence record with a clean sweep 
of their upcoming opponents. 
"We've been focusing on just 
sticking to our game plan," said 
Ratcliffe. "What we've been 
STORE HOURS Monday to Thursday 9:00-9:00 Friday and Saturday 9:00-10:00 Sunday 10:00-7:00 

going with recently has been working. Our formation has worked well." 
The Wildcats will be the first stop on that long road to the con­ference championships in Connecticut. Entering Friday's contest ,vith a 2-9-0 record, the Wildcats round out the Big East standings in last place. 
They have yet to produce a conference win in seven games this season. But, as the Irish learned in their 2-2 tie with underdog Valparaiso on Tuesday, records can be deceiv­ing. The Irish are not looking past the matchup with the Wildcats, but instead are focus­ing on dominating on offense and practicing a stingy defense. 
"The main thing we've been working on since the beginning of the season is trying to get more numbers forward in order to score goals," aid Ratcliffe. "The more people forward, the more chances there are to score." 
After playing host to Villanova, Notre Dame welcomes the Scarlet Knights of Rutgers to Alumni Field on Sunday. Ranked 16th in the nation in this weeks' NSCM poll, the Scarlot Knights are the only team in the Big East without a loss and are tied with West Virginia as the top seed in the conference. 
Back to back victories over No. 
15 Seton Hall and No. 11 
Connecticut vaulted Rutgers into 
the national spotlight, as the 
Scarlet Knights have shown that 
they are a force to reckon with. 
Rutgers' goalkeeper Jon 
Conway anchors the team's 
defense and earned ECAC and his third Big East goalkeeper of the week honors this week. 
Conway sits atop the NSCAA rankings with his overall goals against average of 0.77 and Big East conference average of 0.47. 
The opponents will keep get­
. ting tougher for the Irish when they hit the road next Wednesday to take on the West Virginia Mountaineers. Ranked 9-3-1 overall, the Mountaineers have had a successful Big East season at 5-1-1. 
"We're most worried about our away games," said Ratcliffe. 
"We haven't played that well away this season and so we're concentrating on doing well on the road." 
Offensively, Mountaineer for­wards Slade Jones and Craig Patton have combined to form an explosive scoring duo. The two have scored a total of 12 goals this season, leading West Virginia to many of its victories. 
Rounding out the October break week for the [rish will be a stop in New York to take on the 13th ranked Rod Storm of St. John's. A soccer powerhouse, St. John's is hungry for their 
A perfect n1eeting place throughout the weekend. 
Open Friday and Saturday Iltnng 
N .D. Home Football Weekends. 
Everyone Welcome 
Live Music Grilled Burgers. Brats, an<l Other Specialties 
Cold Beverages & Spirits 60" Screen TV's Full:' Enclosed Tent 
next to the N.D. Bookstore. 219-631-2000 
26324 US 12 East P.o. Box 246 Edwardsburg, Michigan 49112 616-663-3745 FAX 616-663-8178 WEB www.lunkersonline.com 
sixth Big East crown. 
Currently placed at sixth in the Big East poll, just one notch below the Irish, the Red Storm has amassed a 6-2-3 overall and 2-1-3 conference record -a fairly disappointing showing for a team tabbed during the pre­season to sweep the Big East. 
A closer look at the results of St. John's matchups, however, tells a different story. With a stingy defense, the squad has only allowed its opponents to score seven goals in 11 games, with all six season wins doubling as shutouts. 
-
f 
t 
Friday, October 15, 1999 
The Observer . TODAY page 27 
FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY 


A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD JEFF BEAM 
.. 

Recruiters for USC face a bit of an image problem. 
beam.1@nd.edu 
EUGENIA LAST
CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 30 Missouri's ally, 59 Of the embryo 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS are usually so logical, but not today. 
once sac 
DAY: Tanya Roberts, Sarah Ferguson, You will be flippant, and you must
1 Like a leading 
32 Heading abbr. 60 Start going for 
Penny Marshall, Roscoe Tanner try to keep your thoughts and criti­
wind 
33Sideshow Happy Birthday: Get out and cisms to yourself. Work on making
61 Situation in 
6Searchme! have some fun this year. You've been worthwhile changes to yourself. not
performers which service is 
14 Yellow working in overdrive for too long, others. 000
39 Emerson writing important 
and it's time to muster up some new LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You can
16 Revelatory cry 40 Storm 
62 Parts of families friends. You need new experiences, make changes to your home that will 11 Slot spot production people and things in your life if you not only make it a better place to live, 18 It may be a 
41 Storm,producer want to stir up your imagination. Get but will increase its value at the same busy doing what you enjoy most and time. Physical outlets will help
lifesaver 42 Occurring every DOWN 
you won't look back with regret Your COWlter temper tantrums. 000
60 minutes
19 Gymnastic event numbers: 1, 14, 20, 33, 45, 48 SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Your
1 Charges45 Owen Wister's
21 Year in Henry ll's ARIES. (March 21-April 19): involvement in organized activities
2 Never before 
reign "--Mclean" Romance should be on your mind. If will bring you greater popularity.
seen
46 Fed. property you're already in a relationship, use Don't be afraid to ask for favors. Be
22 Cold war abbr. 
manager 3 Become familiar this added energy passionately. If careful not to make derogatory com­230ozing with gradually you're single, get out there and you'll ments in a moment of anger. 000
47Them 24 Hearing shower 4Tel-­
meet someone new. Don't be shy. SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22.-Dec. ll):
48 Conclude by 
00000 Don't share your opinions regarding
26Cape--5 First Egyptian
51 Great deal TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Get politics or religion with others. You 21 Music collector's 52Jimjams king out and shop till you drop. You'll find don't need to be condemned for your stack 53 Trails 
ti Illusionist's feat that special item you've been looking likes and dislikes. You may be alienat­for. Make physical alterations that eel if you push your concerns on 0th­
28Take--55 Tab, e.g. 7 Brooks and 
will improve your looks and draw the ers. 000
others29 Reveal, with 58 Personas' 
kind of attention you desire. 000 CAPRICORN (Dec. 22.•Jan. 19):"out" counterparts a Some are green GEMINI {May 21-June 20): Make Changes in the home may be the 9 Insurance co. chan'7es to your home that will be result of poor communication. You employee· pleasmg to everyone you live with. will have to find a way to express It's time to set some basic rules for yourself without hurting anyone's
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10 Tiny Tim's dad 
yourself. Get back in shape and take feelings. It will call for diplomatic ~-.---.--. 11 In time, to better care of your heal.th. 000 honesty. 00 HA GEMS Ozawa Puzzle by Jim Page CANCER (June n-July 22): Stand AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): It's 0 VEN 12 Wooded: Var. up fur your rights at group meetings. time you found viable ways to make
32 Clinton or Bush, 43Ukesome 53 French novelist 
Your ability to communicate well will some extra cash. lnvestments or pel'­
L I RA 13 Her theme song once arrivals Pierre 
enable you to implement new ideas. haps a small business venture will 
was "Love Me or 
44 Begrudge 54 It's a snap Someone you least expect may be work. You need to take action now.
34 Knock aboutLeave Me" 
admiring you &om afar. 00 0000
450pener 56 Stockbroker's
15 All's alternative LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You can PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your
35Makesa 
49 Blind as --freebie 
make residential moves or alterations emotional life may be suffering If
20 Word in some touchdown 
50 Rush hour's 57 Jack of "Flower to your living arrangements. Your you've been playing both ends
temperatures 
end, roughly Drum Song" ability to charin those you meet will against the middle. Social activities 
36 One might flip it
24 Contrapuntal bring you added popularity. 00000 will be fun, but overindulgences have 
while making
~.:.:..f''-'-+'=+'"-1 composition VIRGO (Aug. %3-Sept. 22): You to be kept under control 6o
breakfast25 Great deal Answers to any three clues in this puzzle Birthday Baby: You like :D run like the wind. y~•~ carefree, ~ and37Ring
30 Not as expected are available by touch-tone phone: always willing to try something new. You have a built-111 charm that W1IlS the ~:..!.f-..:....,,-.-. 31 Ki-­1-900-420-5656 (95i per minute). hearts of those you encounter and many special talents to develop throughout 
S L 38Jerl<s(legendary Annual subscriptions are available for the your life.
T E 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at utroadvlce.com,
founder of 42 Hopper and best of Sunday crosswords from the last 
EA eugenialast.com, utmmate.com.) 
Korea) others 50 years: 1-888-7-ACR0SS. C !999Univ,nalP,-Syndlcate • 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
--------~---~------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
-
Name Address 
_City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
.. 
._ t .•t I" \ t t I~ f, · t f • " • t, t j i. 
. l 
.. 
see HEFT/page 21 
I 
!-I
' 
FOOTBALL HISTORY 
Tie with MSU highlights '60s 
I 
Editor's note: Notre Dame's The Irish, however, never tating blow before the game journey to achieve designa­gave up and battled back even started. All-American tion as the 20th century's from a 10-point deficit and halfback Nick Eddy fell as he greatest college football team escape East Lansing, Mich., was descending from the is marked by IO milestones, with a 10-10 tie in one of the train in East Lansing. He one in each decade since greatest college football landed on his already injured I 900. The Observer examines games of the 20th century. shoulder and was out of the these moments in a IO-part After the game, Michigan game before the first kickoff. series that will appear on State fans agreed that Notre After kickoff, another train Fridays. Dame was the better team ravaged the Irish -Spartan 
and deserved to hold on to All-American Smith. Irish the No. 1 ranking. center George Goedeke and 
I -
By MIKE CONNOLLY "Make no mistake about it," quarterback Terry Hanratty Associate Sports Editor Joe Falls, sports editor of the were both knocked out in the Detroit Free Press, wrote in first quarter by Smith. In a battle between No. 1 Scholastic Magazine's 1966 Goedeke suffered an ankle 
and No. 2, top-ranked Notre Football Review. "The two injury while Hanratty's shoul­Dame almost saw its chances best teams in the land were der was smashed by Smith. for victory crushed by a train on display there Saturday The odds were clearly and Michigan State defensive and our grudging admiration stacked against tho Irish lineman Bubba Smith before goes to the Fighting Irish." before the first 15 minutes the first quarter ended. The Irish received a devas­
see IRISH/page 22 
1­at Providence, EB Golf .~ Today, 4:35 p.m. at Defiance College, 
SPORTS 
Saturday, Noon 
ATA 
Volleyball vs. use, at Kalamazoo College, Saturday, 1:30 p.m. 
EB (I 
Today, 7 p.m. 
GLANCE 
) 

Going for two 
The Notre Dame men's soccer team takes on Big East opponents Villanova and Rutgers at home this weekend. 
PORTS 
page 26 
r\IHE 
page 28 vnSERVER Friday, October 15, 1999 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Heft shines in the shadows 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Associate Sport Edi tor 
Irish senior forward Jennv Heft leads the women's soccer team in goals and points but when it comes to awards, she finishes far behind her team­mates. 
While Heft's teammates gar­ner player-of-the-year nomina­tions and make All-American lists, he was left off the presca­son All-Big East team and was honored as Hig East offensive player of the week just once in 1999. Heft, however, is uncon­cerned with her lack of. awards. . 
"It would be nice to have the awards but all I really wanted is the [national championship] ring," she said. "And if I get that, it will take care of all the awards." 
Irish head coach Randy Waldrum believes that Heft's lack of recognition might have to· do with her lack of partic­ipation with the U.S. national team. 
"I think a lot of it is because she hasn't been involved with the national teams over the years," he said. "The players on the national teams are just more well known. It's not to say that she isn't in the same class with those players. Hopefully by putting together a second year in a row like she did last year the awards will come here way." 
.With the kind of year that Heft is putting together in 

KEVIN DALUM/The Observer 
1999, individual honors may 
Senior Irish forward Jenny Heft stands on the brink of breaking Monica Gerado's career record for goals. With 72 goals, Heft is just one goal behind Gerado. Depite her scoring prowess, she has not recieved the same recognition as some of her teammates. 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Friday Night Live to kick off Irish season 
at Alma College, vs. Villanova,s~ Saturday, 2 p.m. rs, Saturday, 7:30 p.m. 
• 
Cross Country 
Pre-nationals, Golf at Bloomington, Ind. at Louisville Invitational, Saturday, 4 p.m. Ocr. 18-19
• 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Assistant Spores Editor 
First-year head coach Matt Doherty and the men's basket­
ball team seek to lure a gen­er at ion raised on the televi­sion show "Saturday Night Live" 

i n. t o Doherty becoming avid supporters of the Irish by opening their season tonight with "Friday Night Live." 
Doherty and company are courting the support of Notre Dame students for the basket­ball program. They are attempt­ing to do this by offering free admission, prizes and a chance to meet celebrities like Dick Vitale and Tommy Hilfiger for the events surrounding the first day of practice for the 1999­2000 season. 
"The_ most important fans for us are the students. It's a stu­dent university," said Doherty. "I want to put a product on the 
see FRIDAY/page 2~ 


NSIDER 
O
THE 
Friday, October 15, 1999 BSERVER Notre Dame vs. Southern California 

JEFF HSU/The Observer 
Senior free safety Deke Cooper has been dellverlng crushing blows from the secondary for four years. Cooper established himself as one of the hardest hitters on the team. His knack for the big play has saved many games for the Irish. For more on this deadly safety, see page 3. 
KICK..OFF FORECASTINSIDE 
game preview......... .....page 2 
rosters........................page4 
home: 3-1 home: 2-0
VS.

focus on Southern Cal ..page 5 
away: 0-2 away: r-2 college games today....page 6 
gametime: 1:30 p.m. ND time pregame commentary.. .page 7 
weather: rainy. highs in the mid50s 
page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 15, 1999 
game hype 
Irish, Trojans continue storied rivalry 
By BILL HART Associace Sporn; Editor 
Looking through the Notre Dame football schedule at the start of the season, many Irish fans· paid special attention to this weekend when the USC Trojans, a traditional archri­val, visit. 
But no one would realize the importance of this game more than head coach Bob Davie, whose knowledge of the histo­ry extends well beyond his time coaching with the Irish. 
"All ofus have been involved in lots of big games," he said. "Certainly every week we play a big football game here, a lot of rivalries involved. I think this game is the biggest one I've bePn involved with in my coaching career as far as just the intersectional matchup. J think it's a tremendous, tremendous football game." 
For the Trojans, what start­ed out as Rose Bowl aspira­tions have turned into hopes of keeping a winning record. After a convincing 61-7 rout of Hawaii to start the season, the USC offense began to show signs of weakness in its run­ning game, which has normal­ly been the Trojans' bread and butter. 
After a 24-21 squeaker against San Diego State, Southern Cal's troubles inten­sified against Pac-10 oppo­nents. A triple-overtime 33-30 loss to Oregon dropped USC out of the national rankings, and a fourth-quarter come­back by Oregon State was pre­vented only by a goal line stand with 21 seconds left. 
In all three games, the Trojans averaged fewer than 125 rushing yards a game. Still, Davie said he believes shutting down the running game will be a major factor in this weekend's matchup. 
"I think SC will come in here and try to run the football on us," Davie said. "They had some success last year. I think that program has been built on a strong running game over the years. l look fur them to come in and try to run the football." 
That running attack utterly collapsed in the Southern Cal's last game, a 31-24 loss to Arizona. In that game, the Trojan ground game actually had -20 rushing yards, largely the result of seven Wildcat sacks. Even more per­plexing was the inconsistency of leading Trojan ground­gainer Chad Morton, who was a major factor in last year's win over the Irish. After a sea­son -high 153-yard game the week before against Oregon State, the senior tailback could only muster 28 yards on 14 carries. 
On defense. the Trojans allowed 550 total yards, 330 of them on the ground, the most since 1991. 
"Arizona sacked them quite a few times," Davie said about the game, 'Then again, [USQ threw the ball a lot. They spread out. I'm not sure they really tried to run the football on Arizona probably because of their scheme. They proba­bly felt like throwing the foot­ball against that scheme was the best thing to do." 

Despite the recent downturn in luck for the Trojans, senior members of the Irish squad are keenly aware of the importance of this game. Three years have come and gone, all with close results, but not a win. This weekend gives the Class of 2000 one last shot at victory over their fiercest rivals. 
"We haven't beaten USC since we've been he.re," senior fullback Joey Goodspeed said. "A win against them, would make our senior year all the better. Before we got here, we had something like a 12-game unbeaten streak against them. I remember all the games that we've-lost against them, and it's just kind of motivated us that way." 

Bob Davie Irish head coach 
"We're not even thinking about losing. " 

Bobby Brown reciever 
"I am just happy to finally get a chance to play against USC" ·1 think its two really potentially good football teams. I think this will be a great game. " 

Deke Cooper free safety 
..We want to play smash-mouth football just like we did in 1995." 


DOWNTOWN JUST ONE MILE FROM N.D. -_31 SOUTH, LEFT ON COLFAX 
COME IN FORA BLUE N GOLD 

WATCH ALL COLLEGE, NPL, NBA, MLB, NHL GAMES HERE ON OUR 6 TV'S & BIG SCREEN TV 
CELEBRATE THE TRADITION OF THE IRISH AND THE BREWING HISTORY IN SOUTH BEND AT THE MOST SCENIC SITE IN TOWN 
.  FREE  
i ; !,!  APPETIZER WITH PURCHASE I  
!;.  OF 2 ENTREES  I  
i  ONE COUPON PER PARTY 

! i________ ~~.:..•-~-~?--~-~~-~-~-~-~~---·-•·_! 

PROGRESSIVE-AMERICAN CUISINE .SERVING 
LUNCH, 01NNER ii'llii:ATE NIGHT MENU 
POOL TABLES -CIGAR LOUNGE -DARTS 
$20FF 
ON ANY ORDER OF $ 1 0 OR MORE l 
ONE COUPON PER PARTY j EXPIRES 1 2/30/99 [ 
.-··-··-..-..-··-.. -..-··----..-·--·.-·.-.. -..-..•.--......... __; 
IRISH MUSIC JAM SESSION 1ST & 3RD TUESDAY EACH MONTH 
Fooo/DRINK SPECIALS -BANDS VVEDNESDAYS OPEN MON .... SAT @ 1 1 :30, SUN @ NOON -BEST BANQUET ROOMS IN TOWN 
300 E. COLFAX A VENUE, SOUTH BEND 
Friday, October 15, 1999 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Cooper delivers hits for Irish 
. Senior free safety responds from adversity to shine in secondary 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Associate Sports Editor 
Irish lwad coach Bob Davie rncogniznd something sperial in l>eke Cooper from the lwgi11ning. 
Although CoopPr practiced with the offense and caught a pass against Purdue, Davie wanlnd Cooppr in his dof'Pn­sive hacklleld. The then Irish d<1fonsive coordinator went to hoad coach Lou lloltz the wnek bofore the Air Force game in 1996 to request Cooper move to del'ense. 
lloltz agreed  - under one  
condition.  
"Coach  lloltz  told  me  I  

could have him," Davie said. 
"But he had to start." 
With just a week's worth of practice at free safety under his belt. Cooper got his first start against the Air Force Academy and its complicated wishbone offense. 
"It was scary," Cooper said of his first starting assign­ment. "It was real scary. I wasn't really prepared to play at the time but I was glad that coach had confidence in me and I played the best I could." 
Coopor was so unfamiliar with the defensive system, that Davie hollered out checks and formations to the freshman from the sideline. 
"Jle's calling out the forma­tion -'watch the wishbone, watch the pass,"' Cooper said. "There was like 100 different things going through my mind at the time." 
Davie found the quiet crowd bittorsweet during the 20-17 loss. 
"In one way I am glad our crowd was quiet that day because you could stand there and holler out checks to Cooper," he said. 
Things have definitely changed in four years for Cooper. The once confused freshman in his first start is now a veteran senior with 19 starts under his belt and is helping out other young starters learning the defense. 
"Now that's my job," Cooper said. "It's funny; time just flew by. I can remember the time when he was shouting calls to me. now I am shouting calls to Cliff l~effersonJ or I Hon I Israel." 
The road from freshman to leader has not been easy for Cooper. howevnr. 
After starting six games as a freshman and finishing second on the team with three inter­cllptions. Cooper startod only two games as a sophomore. Coopnr played backup to S(inior Jarvis Edison for most of tho season. 
The frustration of not stai·t­ing gave him a bad attitude in tlw classroom. Cooper stopped going to class and watched his grade point average slip. 

Cooper 
position: free .,;afety 
year: senior 
awards:.finalist for I 995 
Indiana Mr. Football 
award as high school 
senior 
notables: converted from 
offense to defense as a freshman, has started at 
least two games every 
year. rated eighth best free safety in country by Sporting News 
"I came in my freshman year and I started six games," Cooper said. "So I was think­ing that I've got the hang of this. So when my sophomore year came and I wasn't play­ing as much, I started getting down on myself. I stopped going to class and I was just down. My grades fell." . 
In the spring of his sopho­more y1rnr, Davie invited Cooper into his office. Davie said Cooper was going to sit out spring practice to get his grades up. 
Cooper was technically acad­emically eligible but Davie didn't like the way Cooper's grades were slipping and wanted Cooper back on track academically without football distracting him. 
Cooper was surprised at the suspension. 
"lt was kind of like a slap in my face," he said "When coach told me that I couldn't play spring ball, I was like 'Wow.' I never had to sit out anything athletically before." 
He considered transferring to a school less concerned with grades that would let him play football. 
"I thought about it," he said. "Maybe this wasn't the place for me. I could go somewhere else where I would play and academics weren't as hard but then I had to think about it graduation-wise, I was going to be set. So I decided to tough it out." 
Davie is proud Cooper brought up his grades and rededicated himself. He has seen a change in Cooper since the suspension. 
"We held him out of spring practice for a reason -to make an emphasis on him what was really important," Davie said. ".lle's come back from that and he's going to graduate from Notre Dame. Not many places in the country would hold you out of spring football when you don't have to. That was something we did as a coaching staff -some­thing I think that's helped his development. 
'Tm proud of the way he 
responded," Davie said. "We could have held him out of spri.ng practice and he could have packed his bags and gone someplace else where they wouldn't have held him out. He took the suspension and he's a better person because of it." 
Cooper has bounced back strong from his suspension, he earned a 3.083 in the fall of his junior year and this fall he received acad­
had a hip pointer -so I had to play. There were three great plays before mine so I can't really say I saved the game. Because without those three plays, I never would have had a chance to make a play." 
Cooper and Sanders have a special relationship in the defensive secondary. The two seniors alternated at free safe­ty last year before Cooper moved to become the starting 
free safety 
emic accolades for earning a  "/ am finally getting  this year. "Deke  is  a  
3.6 GPA in the summer semester. Cooper has  into the groove ofthings and getting constant big plays."  quiet leader," Sanders said. "He leads by action. I look  
become a  bet­ at him some­ 
ter football player since sitting out the  Deke Cooper free safety  times when I am down and he keeps me  
spring  prac­ going."  
tice.  As  a  W  h  i  l  e  

junior he started five games Cooper has been the motivat­and made 78 tackles. ing spark on defense for most 
One of those tackles espe­the season, he was down a bit cially stands out in Cooper and after the Michigan State loss. every Irish fan's mind -his He barely missed a game sav­
'tackle of Boston College run­ing tackle on Gari Scott's 80­
ning back Mike Cloud just a yard touchdown catch. 
yard short of the goal line on "That was real disappoint­
fourth down to preserve the ing," he said. "l had to sit for 
31-26 Notre name victory. two weeks and think about 
A wide grin spreads across that. I felt I let the team down, Cooper's face when he recalls I let myself down. That's was the tackle. one play. I've made better 
"T was hurt that game," he plays and l wiII make more said. "I sat out the whole plays so r can't. let that one fourth quarter because of a play get me dO'wn." hyper extended elbow and Cooper has made plenty of A'Jani [Sanders] was playing. plays since that missed tackle. But then A'Jani got hurt -be Cooper had one of the best games of his career against Arizona State last Saturday. He picked off a pass and recovered two Sun Devil fum­bles to account for three of the Notre Dame's six forced turnovers. 

"I am finally getting into the groove of things and getting constant big plays," Cooper said "You can't make a big play one week and then go five weeks without making a big play." 
Cooper is also one of the hardest hitters on the team. Many wide receivers have paid the price for running over the middle with Cooper and Sanders roaming the field. 
Both safeties are in constant competition to out do one another on the field. 
"l get back there and me and AJ [A'Jani SandersI always try to go back there and out do each other," Cooper said. "Sort of like that Michael Jordan commercial -anything you can do I can do better. If he makes a play that means I have to make a play." 
Cooper gets a special feeling when he really crushes an opponent. 
"It's a great feeling," ho said. "You are standing over them and they can't say anything. All they can do is say nice hit or stay down." 
As long as CoopBr is in an Irish uniform, it might be bet­ter for Notre Dame oppon<mts to stay down. 
birthdate: Oct. r8, r977 a word to describe him off the greatest on the field moment at 
hometown: Evansville, Ind. field: Jaid back Noire Dame: making 
major: sociology the people who have helped tackle on fourth down 
dimensions: 6-Joot-2, 220 him the most since he has against Boston 
up close & 
personal 
pounds been at Notre Dame: Jerns College in '98 a word to describe him on the and my family greatest off the field moment: field: undescribable favorite class at Notre Dame: earning 3.6 GPA
WITH DEKE COOPER 
stasitics during summer session 
page 4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 15, 1999 

1999 FIGHTING IRISH 
IN POSITION: quarterback 1999 SUN DEVILS 
ScheduleSchedule· 
Sept4 at Hawaii W62-7
Aug. 28 KANSAS W48-13 
Sept. 18 SAN DIEGO STATE W24-21
Sept. 4 al Michigan l26-22 
Sept. 25 at Oregon L33·30
Sept. 11 at Purdue L28~2a 
Oct. 2 OREGON STATE W37-29 
Oct. 2 OKLAHOMA W34-30 
Spet. 18 MICHIGAN STATE L23-13 
Oct 9 at Arizona L31-24 
Oct. 16 at Notre Dame
Oct. 9 ARIZONA STATE W48-17 
Oct. 23 STANFORD
Oct. 16 USC 
Oct. 30 at California
Oct. 30 NAVY 
Nov.6 ARIZONA STATENov.6 at Tennessee 
Nov. 13 at Washington Slate
Nov. 13 al Pittsburgh 
Nov. 20 UCLA
Nov.20 BOSTON COLLEGE 
Nov.26 LOUISIANNA TECH
Nov.27 at Stanlord 

eighth season at
third season at 
Southern Cal
Notre Dame 
career record:
career record: 
24-27
I9·I2 
at USC:
at Notre Dame: 
II-7
19-12 
Paul Hackett against Notre Cal: 0-2 
against Southern 
head coach Dame: 1-3 
Roster Roster 
against LSU, Jar,kson was forced to 
Observer Staff Report. 
watch Arnaz Rattle and Eric Chappell 
No, Name Pos. Ht. Wt, Yr, 1 OekeCooper I'S 6-2 220 SR 
No. Name Pos. Ht. WL YR 
1 Frank Strong TB 6-2 215 so 2 Carlos Pierre-Antoine ILB 6-3 245 so 
struggle with the offense in the 10-0 
2 Darrell Rideaux CB 5-9 175 FR
Jarious Jackson has done just about 
defeat. 
3 Carson Palmer QB 6-5 220 so3 AmazBattle QB 6-l 215 so 
everything in his career at Notre 
In 1999, however, Jackson is play­
4 John Fox LB 6-4 220 SR4 Jamaar Taylor WR 6-0 200 FR 
Dame -except play against USC. 
5 DeShaun Hill 5-CB 6-0 190 so5 A'Jani Sanders FS 5-10 197 SR 
ing the best football of his career and 
6 .1\ntuan Simmons CB 5-10 190 JR6 David Givens SE 6-1 217 so 
As a freshman and sophomore, he is ready to start his first game against 
7 Chad Mortan TB 5-8 185 SR7 Jarious Jackson QB 6-1 228 SR 
watched Ron Powlus lead the Irish 
8 Troy Gamer WR 6-3 205 SR 9 RakiN;lson FL 5-11 180 SR 
the Trojans. If Jackson plays as well
8 Anthonv Brannan OLB 5-10 215 SR 
offense against the Men of Troy. 
9 Zeke Mereno LB 6-3 240 JR
as he has in the past two games, 
10 Jason Steen DE-LB 6-4 215 JR9 Dwayne Francis DB 6-0 189 so 
Last year after suffering an injury in Notre Dame will snap USC's three­
11 Mike Van Raaphorst QB 6-5 220 JR10 Deveron Harper CB 5-11 187 SR 
the infamous intentional safety 
12 LPetelle AME 6-3 235 SR 12 Tony Fisher RB 6-2 225 so 
game winning streak in the series.
11 Jay Johnson SE 6-0 191 SR 
13 Sultan McCullough TB 5-11 180 FR 13 NickSetta KIP 6-0 160 FR 

14 Chris \furo QB 5-8 190 JR p 
15 David Newbury PK 5-9 170 so 14 DanNovakov QB 6-3 210 FR 
14 James Caputo 6-1 193 SR 
15 Ryan Shapiro LB 5-11 230 SR 15 Clifford Jefferson CB 5-9 182 so 
16 Chris Hogan WR 6-0 175 SR 16 Glenn Earl DB 6-1 185 FR 
17 Darryl Knight LB 6-3 215 JR 16 John Shingler TE 6-2 252 SR 
17 Matt Dalton QB-WR 6-2 190 JR 17 Joey Hildbold P/K 5-11 175 FR 
18 RJaySoward WR 5-11 175 SR 19 Stanley Guyness WR 6-2 190 SR17 Jeremy Juarez FB 5-11 250 JR 18 Joey GetheraU FL 5-7 176 JR 20 Pere Rusin ss 5-11 190 so 21 Malaefou MacKenzie TB 6-0 210 JR19 Jim Sanson K 5-9 187 SR 20 Gerome Sapp DB 6-0 210 FR 
22 David Gibson s 6-2 215 SR 21 Javin Hunter FL 6-0 185 so 
23 Tangueray Clark CB 6-0 185 SR 22 Julius Jones RB 5-11 185 FR 
24 Sandy Fletcher s 6-3 185 FR 23 Chris Yura RB/DB 5-11 195 FR 
25 Lonnie Ford DE-LB 6-3 245 JR 24 Albery Poree DB 5-10 185 FR 
26 Eric Reese CB 5-11 200 JR 25 Tony Driver TB 6-1 217 JR 
27 Jabari Jackson TB 6-2 220 SR 26 Lee Lafayette CB 5-9 196 SR 
28 Charlie Landrigan · FB 6-0 220 JR 27 Jason Beckstrom DB 5-10 185 FR 
29 Frank Carter s 6--0 190 SR 28 Donald Dykes ss 5-11 197 so 
31 Ifeanyi Ohalete s 6-2 220 JR 28 Mike Grady FS 5-11 200 SR 
35 Petros Papadkis TB 6-1 210 SR 29 Justin Smith FS 5-11 190 JR 
36 Aaron Graham LB 6-2 220 FR 30 Rocky Boiman OLB 6-4 245 so 
36 Miguel Marco WR 5-11 175 JR 32 Terrance Howard TB 6-1 193 so 
37 David Bell PK-P 6-0 195 SR 33 Courtney Watson RB 6-2 205 FR 
38 Mike MacGillivray PK-P 5-10 205 JR 34 Ronnie Nicks !LB 6-0 240 SR 
40 Miguel Fletcher CB 5-11 190 so 35 David Miller K-P 5-11 190 so 
41 Antoinne Harris CB 5-8 180 SR 35 Tim O'Neill TB 5-5 163 so 
41 Rocky Brown WR 6-0 185 SR 36 Tom Lopienski FB 6-1 259 so 
42 Kris Richard CB 6-0 175 JR 37 Ron Israel ss 6-0 205 JR 
43 Troy Polamalu s 5-10 200 FR 39 Anthony Denman !LB 6-2 230 JR 
44 Sultan Abdul-Malik DE 6-3 240 SR 39 Chris Leck ss 5-9 192 SR 
45 Mike Pollard LB 6-0 225 so 40 Jason Murray FB 6-1 260 JR 
47 Chad Pierson FB 6-1 240 FR 40 Brendan Farrell !LB 5-9 232 SR 
47 John Morgan s 6-2 195 JR 41 Joe Ferrer OLB 6-2 235 SR 
48 Brennan Ochs FB 6-2 230 so 42 Shane Walton CB 5-11 185 so 
48 Kenny Horowitz LB 6-0 200 SR 44 Grant Irons DE 6-5 272 JR 
49 Pierre Zado s 6-3 205 JR 45 Joey Goodspeed FB 6-0 250 SR 
50 Eric Denmon C 6-1 265 JR 46 Andrew Dempsey TE/DE 6-2 252 JR 
51 Henry Wallace LB 6-2 210 so 47 MikeMcNair FB 6-0 242 so 
52 S Abdul-Shaheed DT 6-4 250 JR 48 Johnathan Hebert SE 5-11 199 SR 
53 Armand Holland LB . 6-1 225 FR so Cedric Hilliard DL 6-3 295 FR 
54 Anthony Daye LB 6-1 240 FR 51 Tvreo Harrison !LB 6-2 235 so 
55 Markus Steele LB 6-3 215 JR 52 );ff Faine OL 6-3 310 FR 
56 Omar Nazel LB 6-5 215 FR 53 Lamont Bryant DE 6-3 265 SR 
57 Aaron Williams DT 6-3 280 SR 54 B.J. Scott C 6-3 285 SR 
58 Matt Childers DE 6-4 260 JR 55 Jim Jones 0G 6-3 307 SR 
59 Chris Prosser LB 6-4 220 FR 56 Pat Ryan LB 6-3 220 FR 
61 MattMcShane C 6-5 300 SR 56 John Crowther l5 6-2 245 so 
62 Norm Katnik OT-C 6-5 245 FR 57 Justin Thomas LB 6-2 230 FR 
63 John Scully LB 6-1 210, so 57 Luigi Rao LB 5-10 208 JR 
64 Luke MacKay OG-OT 6-5 250 FR 58 Brendan O'Connor 0G 6-2 292 JR 
67 Pat Ruder C 6-4 310 JR 60 Darrell Campbell DL 6-4 245 so 
68 Brent McCaffrey OT 6-5 275 JR 61 Mike Zelenka Fil 6-0 218 JR 
69 Zach Wilson ex; 6-4 300 FR 62 Casev Robin OT 6-7 311 JR 
70 Donta Kendrick 0G 6-3 290 SR 63 Bre~an Curtin OL 6-8 295. FR 
71 Travis Claridge 0G 6-6 310 SR 63 Mike Tribe ILB 5-10 220 JR 
72 Matt Welch OT 6-6 300 JR 64 Jolm Mcrandi C 6-3 300 SR 
72 Todd Kenelev DT 6-0 260 SR 65 Sean Milligan OL 6-4 285 FR 
73 Derek Graf OT 6-4 260 FR 66 JW Jordan C 6-1 277 JR 
74 Nate Steinbacher OT 6-6 295 FR 67 Ryan Gillis OL 6-3 315 FR 
75 Faaesea Mailo OT-OG 6-5 330 so 68 MattBn~nnan OT 6-6 305 SR 
76 Eric Torres OT 6-5 310 FR 69 Mike Gandy 0G 6-4 292 SR 
77 Trevor Roberts 0G 6-4 305 SR 70 Jim Molinaro DL 6-7 240 FR 
78 Lenny Van,dermade OG-C 6-4 270 FR 71 NeilAmbron OL 6-7 275 FR 
79 Jason Grain 0G 6-5 310 SR 72 Ryan Scarola OL 6-5 303 so 
80 Jacob Rogers TE-P 6-6 2,15 FR 74 HobMowl 0G 6-5 295 SR 
81 Andy Wilson JA 6-0 200 so 75 KurtVollers OT 6-7 299 JR 
81 Antoine Harris TE 6-4 245 JR 76 John Teasdale OT 6-6 306 JR 
82 Kareem Kelly WR 6-l 185 FR 77 Brad Williams DT 6-4 288 SR 
83 Steve Stcveru;on WR 6-2 205 FR 78 Jordan lllack OT 6-6 313 so 
84 Pat Swanson TE 6-4 235 SR 79 Sean Mahan OT 6-4 285 so 
85 Scott Huber TE 6-3 255 FR 80 GaryGndsev TF. 6-7 255 FR 
86 Windrell Hayes WR 6-0 205 SR 83 Patrick Reynolds WR 5-11 184 so 
87 Matt Nickels WR 6-1 190 SR 84 John Owens TE 6-3 246 FR 
88 Craig Mitchell WR 5-9 170 JR 85 Antwan Jones DT 6-2 .283 SR 
88 Ad.Im Turner JA 5-10 190 so 85 Mark Rule WR/QB6-2 218 SR 
89 Marcell Allmond WR 6-2 180 FR 86 Dan O'Leary TE 6-4 260 SR 
90 Ryan Nielson DE 6-5 275 JR 87 Jabari Holloway TE 6-4 260 JR 
91 Bobby DeMars DE 6-4 240 so 88 Bobby Brown FL 6-2 193 SR 
92 Kori Dickerson DE 6-4 230 so 89 Gerald \forgan TE 6-4 261 so 
93 Bernard Rilev DT 6-3 295 FR 90 Lance Legree DT 6-1 296 SR 
94 Darren Collins D1 6-3 280 SR 91 N. VanHook-Drucker DE 6-2 271 SR 
95 Chad Cook TE 6-4 225 FR 94 AndyWisne DT 6-3 270 JR 
9b Sagan Atuatasi DT 6-2 295 FR 95 Ryan Roberts DE 6-2 260 so 
97 M'Shan Ryan ME 6-6 290 SR 98 Anthony Weaver DT 6-3 270 so 
98 Matt Orenchuk JA 6-5 159 so 98 Eric Glass DT 6-4 252 SR 
99 Kevin Connolly LM 5-11 165 FR 99 Jason Ching DE 6-3 267 SR 
99 Ennis Davis DT 6-4 295 so 

Friday, October 15, 1999 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 5 
EYE ON THE ENEMY 
Soward poses threat as receiver, on special teams 
By BRIAN KESSLER Sports Editor 
Last Saturday. the Irish defense took care of' J.H., as in Hedmoud. This Saturday, they will try to shut down H. Jay, as in Soward. 
Soward, a. 1999 pre-season All-American, torched the Irish secondary for seven receptions and 124 yards in the Coliseum last season. This year he comes to Notre Dame Stadium looking to do similar damage. 
"Obviously No. 18 H. Jay jumps out al you," head coach Hob Davie said at this week's press conrerenco. "We all know we've all been out there on the ffold with him and see how every time he's out there, it's one play away from a home run." 
Soward is off to a quick start once again this season. lie is averaging 11.8 yards on 20 catches with a touchdown. 
"H. Jay has great potential," USC wide receiver coach Mike Wilson said. ''I've played with Jerry Rice. I've coached James Jett and Tim Brown. R. Jay has the speed to play at that level if he continues to work hard and stay focused. He's extremelv -confident. There's nothing \/\Tong with it. Ile has the energy you need to be a successful player." 
A former Irish head coach had similar praise for the wideout. 
"lle's one of the greatest roC'eivers l'vfl secn," South Carolina head coach Lou Holtz said. "Throw him a 4-yard hitch and he can turn it into a 70-yard gain, He reminds me so mur.h of Raghib Ismail, the way he does things with his quickness, abilities and tal­ent." 
Soward, who is on the 1999 Biletnikoff Award "Watch List," scored a touchdown every 7.8 times he touched the ball in his career (29 touch­downs on 225 plays). 
In a triple overtime loss to Oregon, he had a career-high 12 receptions and 148 receiv­ing yards. In last week's game against Arizona, however, Soward suffered a concussion and caught just three passes. 
"It's scary," USC quarter­back Mike Van Raaphorst said. 
· "He's got a gear when he gets going. He puts it in gear and its like the Millennium Falcon, he puts it in super-space. On a deep route you just try to get back as quick as you can and throw it as far as you can. J have yet to see him under­thrown. No matter how far you throw it. if you put enough air on it, he's going to catch up wHh the ball.'.' 
Soward is also a threat on special teams. He ranks fourth in the coun­try in punt returns, averaging 
17.5 yards. 
Soward earned Pac-10 spe­cial teams player of the week honors following the Oregon State game where he returned a punt 85 yards for a touch­down. He averages 21.5 yards on kickoff returns. 
"I can't imagine there are many receivers in this country better than him," Davie said. "He reminds me an awful lot of Terry Glenn, who played at Ohio State. He's an excellent return man and a game­breaker player." 
fast facts 
ABOUT 
USC 
. 
Location: Los Angeles, Calif. . Enrollment: 28,100 

. 
Colors: cardinal and gold 

. 
Nickname: Trojans . Conference: Pacilic-10 

. 
Fight song: "Fight On" 

. 
Mascot: Traveler V 



. 
Notre Dame leads USC 39-26-5 in the most famous intersectional rivalry in college football. 

. 
The Trojans have won the last ­three meetings with the Irish. 

. 
USC has never laced a Notre Dame team with a .500 record. 


Domino's Delivery 271-0300 
Sunday -Thursday 11 am -2 am 
Friday & Saturday 11 am -3 am 

,-......,.....,
I ,...., 

-
...........
I 
I p ') I "16 ~n I 
I I., •:I,:, I I 1,-,.. il,-9e I 

... 
I Op.,.. I 
I t>; . ~,,,,. I 
Pires l 7 ,::I /
I... 
/15199
,, I ',....., I 
',..J 

page 6 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 15, 1999 
Irish experts 

Brian Kessler sports editor 
(17-7) 
NOTRE DAME PENN STATE SYRACUSE MICHJGAN STATE 

Bill Hart associate editor 
(18-6) 
NOTRE DAME 
OHIO STATE
-
VIRGINIA TE.CH MICHIGAN STATE 

Mike Connolly 
associate editor 
(16-8) NOTRE DAME PENN STATE 
VIRGINIA TECH 
PURDUE 

Tim Casey football writer 
-(18-6) NOTRE DAME PENN STATE VIRGINIA TECH MICHIGAN STATE 
AROUND THE NATION 
KEVIN DALUM/The Observer 
Drew Brees rushes the ball In Purdue's .28-23 victory over Notre Dame. Brees and the Boilermakers will try to end Its two-game 
skid when it hosts No. 5 Michigan State on Saturday. 
Penn State tries to extend winning streak 
ByTIMCASEY Sports Writer 
Penn State looks to extend its winning streak to nine when it plays host to Ohio State Saturday. 
Penn State, fresh off a 31-7 victory over Iowa last week, comes into the game as one of eight undefeated teams in the coun­try, while Ohio State is an uncharacteristic 4-2 after losing to Miami and Wisconsin. 
On offense, Penn State rotates quarter­backs with Rashard Casey and Kevin Thompson sharing the role. Casey, the more athletic of the signal callers, has put up the better statistics. For the season, Casey has completed 37 of 55 pass attempts for 572 yards and five touch­down passes. He is also the team's second­leading rusher with 202 yards and three touchdowns. 
Pre-season All-American LaVar Arrington leads the Penn State defense. He has 27 tackles on the season. Arrington, however, is not the only star on the other side of the ball. Brandon Short leads the team in tackles with 43, while Courtney Brown has been a menace, recording seven sacks and 13 tackles for a loss in the first six games. 
Ohio State heads to Happy Valley after a come-from-behind victory over Purdue last week. Jonathan Wells' 2-yard touch­down run with 5 minutes and 13 seconds to play and a subsequent two-point con­version by Michael Wiley provided the dif­ference in the 25-22 win. 
Quarterback Steve Bellisari has turned in a fine season so far, completing 52 of 110 passes for 980 yards, while throwing six touchdown passes and four intercep­tions. Like-Casey, he ranks second on his team in rushing with 243 yards. 
No. 16 Syracuse at No. 4 Virginia Tech 
After playing the likes of James Madison, Alabama-Birmingham and Virginia, Virginia Tech looks to gain some respect around the country when it takes on S}Tacuse. 
Although they've started with a 5-0 record, the Hokies are gaining little atten­tion as serious national title contenders. That could change on Saturday. 
Both teams are led by perhaps the best freshman quarterbacks in the country. In last week's 58-20 win over Rutgers, Virginia Tech's Michael Vick completed 11 of 12 passes for 248 yards, while gaining a team-high 68 yards on the ground. 
The only blemish on Syracuse's 5-1 start came at the hands of Michigan. Quarterback Troy Nunes has filled in nice­ly for four year starter Donovan McNabb. Last week the freshman threw for three touchdowns in the Orangemen's 24-17 victory over Pittsburgh. He has split time with Madei Williams. 
Wideouts Quinton Spotwood and Pat Woodcock give Nunes and Williams two able targets. The duo has combined for 549 yards receiving and six touchdown receptions thus far. 
No. 5 Michigan State at No. 20 Purdue 
The schedule does not get much easier for undefeated Michigan State as it takes on Purdue. A week after upsetting Michigan 34-31, the Spartans face one of the nation's finest passers in Drew Brees. 
Brees, a Heisman trophy candidate, has thrown for 1,813 yards and 11 touch­downs on the season but has hurt his award chances in the past two weeks after losing games to Michigan and Ohio State. 
Michigan State has an accomplished sig­nal caller of its own in Bill Burke. The left­hander has completed 92 of 161 pass attempts on the season for 1,309 yards and 13 touchdowns. 
But the star on the Spartan offense is wide receiver Plaxico Burress. Possibly the best wideout in the country now that Florida State's Peter Warrick is out or action, the 6-foot-6 Burress is on a tear. In last week's game Bw-ress caught 10 pass­es for a MSU-rccord 255 yards to inflate his season totals to 32 catches. He is aver­aging 18.1 yards per catch on the Season. 
Besides Brees, Purdue also has two other main threats on offense. Chris Daniels is among the nation's leaders in receptions with 57 pair of -touchdowns in the first six games of the season. 
71 
19ii 
, 39 <••••·1,1.2a
?1;012·· 
. 1,041 1136 
h''862 
6,0 .,i\36 4~1( ·•· ,:);/757
'4ij1;;'> . :'i!:$48 i .. .. 5·l . 620 "';) ··• 57g <605 
·· "*'.,,,.,.,, ·4:r·· '\.•its· 4•2 472 
. 5~2 ; ,399 
,; · ·.. 4i'.t; ' 322 Pt1hlue 4·2 . 282 'M~ ..... S;t ·244

)ili!if 54 . 125 Ml~mi (Fla,) 2-3 113 
,i,t, •... /l!,t,f~rce .. 4/(' 
other te.atns teceivttt'g votes: southern Miss. 

· 4~tArkan~s.~o. ArizQna as, use 22,
Ohio State at Penn State...... 11 a. m., ABC 
,l(en~~~ky19/'jYll1J.nesota15,· N~$tit1e·
around 
Michigan State at Purdue.2:30 p.m., ABC 
aabiij9ton 12, Qoslon College.$, Color11.do State 
Minnesota at Illinois ....... 11 a.m. ESPN2 
rginj lo@do 4, Hpwau 3, 
Syracuse at Virginia Tech.... 6 p.m., ESPN 
~~:i~f, .~1fel{q~~~1 .
Indiana at Wisconsin........ n a.m., ESPN
the dial 
'
' 
Friday, October 15, 1999 The Observer. IRISH INSIDER page 7 
the inside edge .. 
Ct 
records: 3-3 
A.P. rank: NR coach's poll: NR 
records: 3-2 
A.P. rank: NR
~ coach's poll: NR Series Record 
Notre Dame leads So. California 
39-26-5-0 
quarterbacks: Jackson trails only Heisman 
Ct 
front-runner. Georgia Tech's Joe Hamilton. and Marshall's Chad Pennington in national passing efficiency. USC's Carson Palmer is out. 
running backs: The quar­
ct 
tet of Irish tailbacks came ali11e in the last two games. USC aver­ages 3.3 yards per carry. 
receivers: R. Jay 5,'oward co1tld be the
EVEN 
most explosive player 
the Irish face all year. 
ND's wideouts har,e 
played great. 
offensive line: Guard Travis Claridge was a pre-season All-American. All five
~ 
starters return from 
last year. 
~ 
EVEN 
EVEN 
defensive llne: Defensive tackle Ennis Davis will be in the Irish backfield all day. With an experi­enced USC line, Williams. Irons and Weaver could have trouble getting to the quarterback. 
linebackers: Nicks, Harrison. Denman. Boiman and Ferrer are young but prQductive. MLB Zeke Moreno leads the Trojans in tackles with 44. He also has three touchdowns. 
secondary: Sanders and Cooper combine for one ofthe best safety duos in the country. Cornerbacks Kris Richard and Antuan Simmons provide solid coverage for the Trojans. 
special teams: At least the Irish don't have to worry about Sanson this week. USC's David Newberry isn't much
~ better, going 3-Jor-7 from more than 30 yards. Soward is a dangerous returner. 
coaching: It's amazing 
how a couple wins can 
., 
change the public's 
opinion ofcoach Davie. 
Hackett's reputation is 
not much better, going 
2r-25-r in hisfirstfour 
years at USC. 
intangibles: A new sense ofconfidence has
• 
rejuz,enated the Irish season. USC has been penalized 58 times in only four games. 

Overall 
It may not be as impor­tant to the new genera-lion of Notre Dame fans but the coaches and play­ers know the signifl­cance. Aseries once dominated by the Irish In 
the Lou Holtz years has 
now turned tides. If the 
Irish don't turn the ball 
over, they have enough talent to win. 
IRISH EXCHANGE 
Davie looks for first win over Trojans 
Bob DaviA is certainly no stranger to facing adversity. He's finally showed that his team has ability with turnaround perfor­mances against Oklahoma and Arizona State at home. 
Now it's 
time to prove 
it to ancient 
Greece. 
Of all the 
teams that 
Davie has 
faced more 
than once, 
only the 
Spartans of 
Michigan 
State and the 
Trojans of 
USC have not 
lost to the Irish. Notre Dame may 
have God on its side, but Zeus 
seems to be the bigger college 
football fan so far. 
Obviously, Davie and the Irish have spent the last few weekends on a campaign to regain their name. Now its time for them to break another streak. This one of two consecutive losses to the Trojans (three if you count 1996, Lou lloltz's last year as head coach here). 
The Irish are going to be in good company this weekend. USC is coming into this game after a loss to Arizona last weekend, a loss that pushed them off the Associated Press top 25. 
Nothing will move them back faster than a win against a resur­gent Notre Dame. And, of course, nothing will continue to build confidence in the Irish than a win against the Trojans. breaking another streak that Davie and company would soon like to for­get. 
Forgetting the past shouldn't be that hard for an Irish team that barely resembles the team that started the season 1-3. 
Jarious Jackson, who threw six interceplions in those three loss­es, has turned his game around with six touchdown pas~es in the past two games -all with no interceptions. Jackson now stands as the third most efficient passer in the country. 
Yet Jackson still has much to prove against thA Trojans, not having ever started a game against them. His knee injury a ynar ago kept him from playing in this game and helped USC shutout the Irish on weak efforts from backup quarterbacks Arnaz Battle and Eric Chappell. 
The injury bug that affected the Irish a year ago has returned to hit the Trojans this year. With sophomore starter Carson Palmer out with a broken collar­bone, USC has turned to junior Mike Van Raaphorst in the pock­et. 

The difference between the. Irish of last year and the Trojans of this year is that Van Raaphorst is having a decent time hitting his receivers. 
Having started the first eight games a yAar ago, Van Raaphorst is well positioned as the USC sig­nal caller. Freshman Kareem Kelly has done an excellent job getting open downfield, leading his team with 25 receptions. Despite suffering a concussion last week, veteran receiver R. Jay. Soward is a constant threat downfield for Van Haaphorst. 
Of course, USC's best aspect is far from Notre Dame's weakest matchup. The Irish secondary, once thought to be questionable, has turned into a solid unit that can confidently keep lhe Trojans on the ground. 

Doing that puts the pressure on an frish defense that has done fairly well against the running game. 
Momentum is the key for both teams Saturday. Coming away with a win puts both teams in line for a return to the polls. Of course for the Irish, a win keeps the turnaround alive, ends another of Davie's unwanted streaks and proves that Zeus is defeatable. 
The views expressed in this col• umn are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Stakes high in USC-Notre Dame rivalry game 
Rivalries. There's something about them that causes people to get into an uncontrolled frenzy. 
Those games mean more than anything. For USC. part one of the traditional rivalry games comes this Saturday against Notre Dame. At 3-2 overall and with dim hopes of going to the Rose Bowl, this (and UCLA) is one of 
Jenn Javier
the few things USC has left to play for in its season. These games mean so much 
Daily Trojan
that if the Trojans go 4-2 the rest 
of the way but those two losses Sports Editor 
come against the Irish and 
Bruins, the season would be a 
wasted one. 
Everyone affiliated with USC is already disgruntled. Who can blame them? A team expected to finish at least second in the conference hasn't been all that impressive. 
Starting quarterback Carson Palmer is gone. New starter Mike Van Raaphorst is beleaguered. USC can't run the ball out of the stadium, much less for first down. The defense gave up 22 points in one fourth quarter against Oregon State; an ugly performance against Arizona; a triple-overtime loss in Oregon ­the list goes on and on. 
Those cries of "Off with Paul Hackett's head" will 
-
only get louder. After all. fans around here are pretty impatient. Some of them have been waiting 20 years for a national championship . 
But sooner or later, they'll also realize it's 1999, not 1979. Wake up, old timers: There's this thing called parity these days. Nobody is a powerhouse anymore. There are programs who will field good teams year after year but will never be untouchable (yes, this is for you, Irish and Trojan fans). 
People are being unreasonable. All the criticism of Hackett is unfair. Hackett's been here for a year and a half, after all. For all his questionable decisions (can you say fourth-and-13?). he has made the most of what was given to him. 
All of this season's disasters aren't completely Hackett's fault either. People are being injured left and right. The offense needs to refocus. The defense is still developing. He's only had two recruiting classes, neither of which has fully been utilized yet. 
The time is now. though. Hackett must get things going. The offensive juggernaut hasn't materialized yet this year. Defense is doing its job for the most part, but can't carry the team forever. 
But for one day, forget everything that's wrong with each team. This is the rivalry people grow up watch­ing. Everyone already knows there's a lot at stake, but when these two teams clash on the gridiron Saturday, all the records will be thrown out the window. 
This game will prove whether the Trojans have strong character or not. It will prove if Hackett knows how to rally his troops and coach them well. Notre Dame has momentum. The Irish have Jarious Jackson. They will be OlJ their own home turf. 
And when aJI is said and done, everyone will witness a great battle. Isn't that what this is all about anyway? 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not 11ecessarily those ofThe {)_bserver. 
. '. ! 
page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, October 15, 1999 

Beginning in September, UND.c_om will offer a subscription service called· the Irish Insider. 
The Insider will feature: 
• 
Bi-Weekly Bob Davie Column 

• 
Game Analysis 

• 
Player Diaries 

• 
Previews 

• 
Video Playbook from the Coach's Edge 

• 
Exclusive Irish Features 


Also included in the Insider Package: 

-
.. 
• 
Weekly Ticket Giveaways for Football and Men's Basketball Games 

• 
Big East Tournament Ticket Giveaways 

• 
Bowl Game Ticket ·Giveaways 

• 
Discounts and Coupons for the Notre Dame Online Store 


Become an Irish Insider!! 
Sign up to become an Irish Insider and receive a-Notre Dame t... shirt! The first 500 subscribers will receive a Notre Dame football yearbook! 
,.__ 

Irish Insider at UNO.com is not affiliated with The Observer. 


