-~­

Java Jive 
Up all night? Scene takes a look at the uses (and abuses) ofcaffeine on campus. 
Scene . page 12 

THE 
VOL XXXIII NO. 42 
• HTTP://OBSERVER ND.EDU 

Ball State shooting spree kills one, injures four 
The Muncie Police Department lier that evening al the YMCA, 310 E. house. 
Ry PAUL ALLOR 
arrived at the crime scene around 4 Charles St., and some partygoers went The bullets sounded out in rapid fire, Ball State Daily News 
a.m. Sunday, and said as many as 40 from that party to the Bethel Avenue with no space in between, said junior rounds were fired by at least two peo­party. Keels could not be reached by the Kristi White, Westerfcld's roommate. 
J\ former Ball Stall! studnnt was killed ple. The residence is occupied by a Daily News for further comment. Winkle said the numbnr of shots lirod Sunday morning and four others wero member of Kappa Alpha Psi, a social Muncie Police Chief Joe Winkle added indicated that more than one weapon injured at a house party at IO 17 West rra:ternity, which is a aililiaLed with the that authorities have no reason to sus­was used. Shell casings trailed out from Br.tlrnl Ave. Shots wrrn fired into tho National Panhellcnic Council. pect the party was sponsored by the fra­the house into the alley. Muncie police house. killing Julian Brown, 28, of Gary, J\ccording to the Associated Press, the ternity. have not released any suspects' names who was in the kitchen. shooters may have been "a group of A man who attended the event said a but said they have interviewed 60 to 80 
Four other g1wsts were in_jurnd and men who were turned away from the car pulled into an alley behind the people. admitted to Ball Memorial Ilospital. Two party." house and began tiring into the home, "We have no idea how many people have been treatlid and reloasod, and Kappa Alpha Psi's adviser, David the AP reported. were at the party, but that's how many two am listed in fair condition, said a Keels, told the AP that the party was a "I heard gunshots, but I thought it was hospital spokesman. A fifth person was private gathering, not a sponsored firecrackers," said Ball State junior injurNl but not admitted to the hospital. event. Tho fraternity hosted a party ear-Natalie Westerfeld, who lives next to the see SHOOTING/page 4 
--_-_-_-_-_----------~======· 
GET DOWN TONIGHT 


SUZANNE KELLMAN/The Observer Masters of Ceremony Jarious Jackson and Bobby Brown call the shots at Black Images, presented by the Black Cultural Arts Councll. The event was held Saturday evening at Washington Hall and featured acts by Voices of Faith, 1st Class Step, and the Hawai'i Club. 

Incense sparks Le Mans blaze 
structural damage, accord­Adjacent rooms are experi­
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
ing to Saint Mary's Security. encing electrical difficulty
Saini M,lry's Ediror 
Notre Dame Fire following the fire, according Dnpartrnent, South Bend lo residents. Three electrical A closet fire in Le Mans 
Fire Department, and the jacks are non-functional in llall forced the evacuation of' 
South Bend ambulances one room, and the sink light­
tlrn dormitory on Saturday 
responded Lo the call at 2:50 -ing was damaged in another, afternoon. 
p.m. Saturday. No severe said one Le Mans resident. The fire was isolated to 
injuries were reported, but The room was shut down room 41<,, where incense 
one resident was treated for following the fire, and the burning near thn closnt 
smoke inhalation and trans­resident was transferred lo ignited a piece of' clothing ported to a medical facility. another dorm. The fire is and the closet. residents 
She was released taler that still under investigation, said rnported. The room suffered 
day. Saint Mary's Security. 

Lutherans, Catholics sign joint statement 
inating power of sin and deathBy ERIN PIROUTEK and from the curse of the law. It 
News Writer 
is acceptance into communion 
with God: already now, but then 
On Oct. 31, 1517, Martin fully in God"s coming kingdom." Luther initiated the Reformation The key difference is that by nailing his 95 points of con­Catholics have emphasized good tention against the Vatican to works as contributing to salva­the door of Wittenberg Church. tion, whereas Lutherans have 
On Oct. 31, 1999, for the first emphasized salvation as a result time in 487 years, the Catholic offaith. and Lutheran churches signed a IJowever, Vatican II paved tlm 
joint doctrinal statement, the way for the decades of' ecumeni­"Joint Declaration on the cal dialogue that resulted in a Doctrine of Justification." common understanding. 
The signing took place in "Together {Roman Catholics Augsburg, Germany, where in and Lutherans} confess: By 1530, the Augsburg Confession grace alone, in faith in Christ's -the founding document of the saving work and not because of Lutheran Church -was drafted. any merit on our. part, we are The document was signed by accepted by God and received delegations from the Vatican the Iloly Spirit, who renews our and the Lutheran World hearts while equipping and call­Federation (LWF), a global com­ing us to good works," states the 
munion of Lutheran churches, Joint Declaration. including the evangelical "The disagreements arc a Lutheran Church in America. matter of emphasis rather than 
"I really du think it's a great substance," said Cavadini. not­breakthrough, and I'm excited ing that this docume11t allows about it," said Professor John areas of disagreement between Cavadini, chairman of the the two churches, but within the Department of Theology. context of a broad area of 
"This document ... acknowl­agreement. edges that there is now a basic "The goal of ecumenism is not agreement on this theological that all Lutherans am now going 
issue of how God justifies or to become Catholic or all saves people," said associate Catholics arc going to become theology professor Maxwell Lutherans...[but! how can dis­Johnson. tinct traditions live togetlrnr in 
Johnson, an ordained full union," said Johnson. Lutheran minister, explained Cavadini agrees that the Joint that Luther had the opinion that Declaration is a positive illustra­justification by faith through tion of these ecumenical goals. 
grace was not being adequately "It shows a way to have a dia­taught by the Catholic Church. logue in which the strengths of 
Luther called for a reform of one tradition are not simply the Church, but the call for homogenized into the other tra­reform was not well received, dition, but instead thn strengths resulting in his subsequent of each tradition are preserved," 
excommunication. · said Cavadini. 
"The intent was never to "This is something that should establish a different church, but neither be overesltmated or to merely reform the one underestimated," cautioned Church," said Johnson. Johnson, explaining that the 
The Joint Declaration defines justification as "the forgiveness of sins, liberation from the dom-see ACCORD/page 4 
Navy founders in Irish sea 
Notre Dame stayed alive Sunday to beat Navy 28-24. extending the current winning streak to four games. 
Irish Insider . pullout 
Monday 

NOVEMBER 1, 1999 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Monday, November 1, 1999 
INSIDE COLUMN 




Birthday for 
•

a prince 
There are enough reasons to celebrate today that one might easily forget that it's Monday. For example, we celebrate the beginning of Drug Free Babies Week, World Communication Week, and even National Osteopathic Medi~ine Week and the 10th anniver­sary of the fall of the Berlin Wall. Today is National A. J. Boyd Authors Day, National Family Literacy Day and the 
Assistant
9th anniversary of the 
Viewpoint
McDonald's Restaurant 
Editor
decision to stop using styro­
foam containers. More sig­
nificantly it is tho Feast of All Saints or El Dia 
de Los Muertos. But one cause of celebration is . even a little more noteworthy because· of its 
timeliness. 
The Notre Dame community is privileged to 
have visiting with us these next few days a 
Prince of the Church, a member of the Sacred 
College of Cardinals. Granted. around hPre, one 
begins to think that prelates grow on trees, but 
this is something different. Our guest is Francis 
Cardinal Arinze. originally of Eziowelle, 
Nigeria. And today is his birthday. 
Having had one of the most interesting and 
stellar ministerial careers in the modern histo­
ry of the Church, His Eminence is rumored to 
be one of the strongest "papabile" (possible 
papal candidates), and it is not hard to see 
why. 
Ordained a priest when he was 26, he served 
as a priest less than six years before he was 
ordained a bishop. '.\1:ost bishops spent 20 to 30 
years as priests before ecclesiastic ordination. 
At the amazingly young age of 31 then-bishop 
Arinze was able to participate in the final ses­
sion of Vatican II as a church father. This is all 
the more impressive considering he was a 
brand new priest when Pope John XXIII 
announced the council in 1959. Named a 
Cardinal in 1985, he is now President of the 
Pontifical Council for Interreligious Dialogue 
and sits on nine other curial dicasteries, 
including the Congregation for the Causes of 
the Saints and the Committee for the Holy Year 
2000, 
Possessed of one of the most charismatic per­
sonalities I have ever witnessed, the Cardinal is 
respected by a surprising spectrum of Catholic 
faithful. So-called conservatives admire his out­
spoken orthodox theology and ethics. So-called 
libnrals hail his commitment to the reforms of 
the Second Vatican Ecumenical Council and his 
pastoral approach to ministry. Most everyone 
finds something appealing in the idea of (poten­
tially) the first African-born pope since 
Gelasius I who died in AD 496. 
Cardinal Arinze will be speaking on the third 
millennium and the apostolic letter of Pope 
John Paul II, ''Tertio Millenio Adveniente," 
Tuesday night at 8 p.m. in the McKenna Hall 
auditorium. He will also be the principal cele­
brant at the Mass of the Feast of All Saints at 
5:05 p.m. today in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. He is also meeting with small groups of students throughout the week on a more cqn­versational basis. 
If you have the opportunity to listen to him at any of these occasions, don't pass it up! No paper, project, or party will be as important as the message you will get from him. And should · you have the opportunity to meet him, remem­ber to wish him a happy birthday. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Obsenier. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Finn Pressly Amanda Greco Kare Steer Graphics · Erin LaRufTu Scott Hardy 
Sports Production 
Bill Han Mark DeBoy Viewpoint Lab Tech Colleen Gaughen Joe Stark 
The Obs,rver (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday ,hrough Friday except during exam and vacation pr'riocb. The Obsc:rvcr i~ a member of chc Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 

THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Today  Tuesday  
. Lecture: "Globalization,  . Lecture: "Conflict  
Nationalization, and the  Prevention," C-103  
Nation State," William  Hesburgh Center, 4:15  
pfaff, 129 DeBartolo, 4:30  p.m.  
P.m.  . Bonfire: Refreshments  
. Presentation: General  and entertainment, Holy  
Mills Placement, 100-104  Cross um, 8 -10 p.m.  
McKenna Hall, 6:30 p.m.  

Wednesday· Thursday 
. 
Presentation: Caterpillar . Lecture: "Seeking a Inc. Placement, 208 Common Future for the McKenna Hall, 6 p.m. Congo," C-103 Hesburgh 

. 
Ceremony: 1999 Notre Center, 12:30 pm. Dame Award, Jordan . Concert: Notre Dame Auditorium, 7:30 p.m. Symphony Orchestra, 


Washington Hall, 8 p.m. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports


OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Rutgers students must retake lost LSATs 
NEW BRUNSWICK, N.J. 
After spending months hunched over textbooks and practice exams and doling out hundreds of dollars to participate in preparatory courses you have finally taken the LSAT ­the test that will determine vour law school experience. There's ·just one problem: your exam, along with hundreds of others. were lost and your only option is to take the seven­hour-long test again. The exams of about 200 aspiring law students ­universitv students who took the LSAT on Oct. 2 -were lost while being delivered to a grading facility in Pennsylvania. There were two test sites at Rutgers and those students who took the exam at Hickman Hall on the Douglass campus received the bad news that their tests were lost, said a student who took the exam and wished to remain anonymous. 

utgers 

Now the students must take a differ­ent test over, creating a plethora of problems, the student saitl. Spokespeople from the Law School Admission Council -the group that administers the test -did not return phone calls made by The Daily Targum. 
But in an interview with The Bergen Record, Ed Haggerty, a spokesperson for the LSAC, said the test administrator brought the 
Wash. U. gay student harrassed 
ST. LOUIS, Mo. 
During the recent Gay and Lesbian Awareness Week, two incidences occurred on the Washington University campus which may have been motivated by hate. Some time between Oct. 8 and 11, during the weekend preceding Awareness Week, the banner for Spectrum Alliance, a student group for issues of sexu­al orientation, was stolen from the Oak Walk. Its dis­a pp earan ce was reported to the Washington University Police Department, which filed the incident as a theft of prop·erty valued at $300. The following Tuesday, Vice President of Spectrum Alliance Rebecca Bishaf reported being verbally assaulted by two males in a passing car while she was walking through the new parking garage by Gregg House. Though Bishaf could not identify the males, she said their statements concerned her sexuality. According to WUPD Sergeant Mark WerMr, the lack of evidence or witnesses of either incident renders investigation all but impossi­ble. He said thefts of banners such as these are "fair-. 
ly common. I would say it's highly unlikely that there was any political message involved." 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather"forecast for daytime conditions and high tempemtures 
4fo,~-~888 tJ ~ u 

Showers T-slorms Rain Rurrles Snow Ice Sunny Pr. Cloudy Cloudy Via Associ'a.ted Press GraphicsNer 
answer sheets to a post office, but the U.S. Postal Service never deliv­ered them. 
"We sincerely regret the inconve­nience and concern this problem has caused," the LSAC wrote in a letter to the students whose exams were lost. 
That inconvenience is a huge one, said Douglass College senior Nicole Coneby, president of the Rutgers University Pre-Law Society. 
"It would be the single most horri­ble experience of my life because I felt like no matter how much I pre­pared, it wasn't enough," she said. 
"Having to go into a room for eight hours straight [again],.I just don't what I would do," she said. 
The LSAT is a half-day standard­ized test that measures thinking skills deemed necessary in order to attain success in law school. 

Florida frat brother: no contest 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. 

Although one Delta Chi member joined four of his brothers by pleading no contest to a misdemeanor charge stemming from a fraternity party almost eight months ago, a sixth brother prepares for a trial set to begin in November. Nineteen-year-old Joshua Rothburd of Tampa is the only one of six fraternity members who has not pied to charges that were filed after a night of drinking and simulated sex with strip­pers in February. Georgia resident Anthony Marzullo, 22, pleaded no contest Wednesday to remaining in a structure for the purpose of prostitution, lewdness or assignation. Marzullo and Rothburd are two of six Delta Chi members and pledges who were charged in mid-'.\1:ay with three misdemeanors including soliciting and engaging in prostitution, lewdness or assignation. The charges stem from a Feb. 26 "Big Brother/Little Brother" initiation ceremony at the now-suspended chapter's house on campus. During the party, two strippers performed lap dances and had simulated sex with several Delta Chi members, which was caught on videotape. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 

The AccuWeatheri> forecast for noon, Monday, Nov. 1. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
c:i 1999 Accuweather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
P1"N1111rw: ® © GJ High Low Showers v,a Assoc1afad Pruss  G.:J R•ln  fil] T-storm11  .E.21 Flurrle1  EJl Snow  ~. Ice  0 Sunny  ~ Pt. Cloudy  4i~#!t Cloudy  
Atlanta Baltimore Boston Chicago Houston  63 66 61 47 76  37 41 47 28 36  Las Vegas Memphis Milwaukee New York Philadelphia  79 61 44 56 66  48 31 30 41 45  Portland Sacramento St. Louis Tampa Wash DC  60 67 48 76 68  44 49 31 57 43  



Monday, November I, 1999 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page3 


Is ANYONE LISTENING? 


BABY, BURN. 
1ST ANNUAL CAMPUS WIDE 
BONFIRE 
TUESDAY, 11/02 IPM•10PM MUSIC BY JUSTIN DUNN HOLY CROSS HILL BETWEEN THE LAKES 

BURN, 
e 
www.nd.edu/-sub/ 
Driver falls asleep, collides w-ith pole 
Observer Staff Report 
A driver slammed into a roadside pole on US 31/33 next to the !'Jotre Dame Golf Course Sunday afternoon. Ile reporLedly told police he fell asleep at the wlrne-1. 
The St. Joseph County Sheriffs DepartmenL is inves­tigating the case and is expected to release details today. Oilicers would release the driver's nanrn or any information about the pend­ing investigation Sunday night. 
Officers at the scene said that rescuers had to use the jaws of life to extricate the driver from his car. He was 
Awakening Retreats offer rest, reflection 
By NELLIE WILLIAMS News Writer 
This Friday, as many as 14 young women will be traveling to Still Waters, a small. cozy farmhouse retreat in a rural part of Michigan, as part of the annual Saint Mary's Awakening Retreats. The theme for this retreat is "Women in Community: Tapestry of Lives." 
These retreats give students time to think about their lives, relax and form new and stronger friendships. 
The retreat is filled with, "soul searching -a time to sit back. reflect, and be," one stu­dent commented. 
Campus ministry representa­tive Margaret Carr is in charge of organizing and leading these retreats. 
"This is a good time to get away and refocus," Carr said. "[The students] become real close. Many students discover that they have a lot in common. They form new friendships and relationships." 
During the weekend the stu­dents experience community building through games and crafts. There is also prayer and reflection time. Students can participate in small group dis­cussions about their failh. 
Students' watches arc taken away so they do not worry about time and are not anxious about what they will be doing next. Instead, they appreciate the moment. 
"We have free time for them to walk in the woods and reflect," said Carr. 
conscious and talking to police oflicers, however. and was taken to Memorial IIospital. 
The vehicle was damaged beyond repair. · The accident happennd at approximately 2::rn p.m. whon the car, a Mercury Grand Marquis, collided into a pole that holds up direction­al signs near the driveway leading to D6. It was traveling northward at the time. 
Traffic on the US 31/33 was slowed by the accident. Rescuers closed down the northbound side of the four­lane road for approximately 90 minutes to clean up the scene. 
Still Waters is a very "beauti­ful place," said Lindsay Cotter, a junior who went on the retreat last year. 
"It is a relaxing house. People come in to relax and unwind," Cotter added. 
The little farmhouse is very simple but homey, according to those who have been on the retreat before. There are quilts on the beds, a wood stove and a prayer room. 
Another student, Erica Devoir, enjoyed the simplicity of the retreat. 
"There was no radio, no tele­vision. We focused on ourselves and the others around us," Devoir said. "I got to know the girls a lot better. We had a lot of time for sharing." 
Students who attended the retreat last year described the weekend as positive and life­giving. 
"Time spent away from my busy and hectic life at school. Especially that I had no watch to remind me of the minutes ticking by. That removed so much of my stress because it really didn't matter what time it was while I was here," one student wrote. 
Another student really enjoyed "getting to know other special and wonderful girls on such an intimate basis and learning about their gifts as well as mine to offer." 
Saint Mary's students inter­ested in the retreat can contact Margaret Carr at Campus Ministry. 
Another retreat will be held .January 21-23rd at Mary Solitude on Saint Mary's cam­pus. 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Monday, November 1, 1999 
Shooting 
continued from page 1 
were there when we set up the scene," Winkle said. "If someone was standing there watching. they probably were brought in." 
Dean of Students Don Mikesell was at the house after the incident occurred Sunday morning and described the gathering as "a somber group of kids." 
"Our thoughts and prayers 
Accord 
continued from page 1 
Joint Declaration doesn't automatically resolve all issues that divide the Lutheran and Catholic church­es, but it does raise their com­mon relationship to a new level. 
"The most vivid and con­crete impact will be getting Lutherans and Catholics to think about this issue as well as others," said associate the­ology professor Randall Zachman. 
"There's still no complete agreement on ordination, ministry, the role of the papa­cy, and issues related to Church structure," said Johnson while expressing optimism for future ecumeni­cal dialogues. 
"Contemporary Roman Catholic doctrine like the 1993 
Business deparbnent introduces MIS IDajor 
By KAREN FINK 
News \X1ricer 
The Saint Mary's business department is offering stu­dents a new major, Management Information Systems (MIS). 
The business department and the mathematics depart­ment started combining efforts to create the major two years ago. 
"MIS is an area of study that is in demand and the time seemed right. Introduction of the MIS major is an important step because it will make stu­dents increasingly marketable in this age of heightened tech­nology," said business depart­ment chair Jill Vihtelic. 
Currently. Saint Mary's has four students -one senior and three juniors -with MIS as their declared major. The degree benefits anyone inter­ested in a business career, and it requires 58 credit hours: 33 in business core requirements, 19 in computer science cours­es and six in math courses. 
This spring, Saint Mary's will award its first MIS degree to senior Katie Cousino. She became interested in the major after doing some research her sophomore year go out to those who were injured," Mikesell said. 
Douglas Mcconkey, vice president for student affairs. said Ball State will offer any support it can to the partygo­ers and their families. 
Winkle said officers will con° tinuc questioning guests. 
"There were some state­ments we weren't really happy with," he said. "They didn't quite add up." 
Material from the Associated Press was. used in this report. which is printed courtesy of the Ball State Daily News. 
directory on Ecumenism and Pope .John Paul ll's recent encyclical 'Ut Unum Sint [That All May Be Onel' shows a strong commitment to ecu­menical dialogue in the Catholic Church today," said Johnson. 
Randall Zachman noted that both Churches would need to emphasize the new doctrine 
"I think that it will by and large bt1 received, but it would 
have  to  be  taught,"  said  
Zachman.  
Cardinal  Edward  Idris  

Cassidy, President of the Pontifical Council for Promoting Christian Unity, signed for the Vatican. LWF general secretary Ishmael Noko, LWF president Christian Krause, LWF trea­surer Sigrun Mogedal and LWF Vice presidents George Anderson, Julius Filo, Ishaya Parrnata, Huberto Kirchheim rmd Prasanna Kumari signed for the LWF. 
first to· graduate with the degree, but it's just great to be able to graduate with the degree. It's a powerful major and helps you move into the door of business, especially for a woman with the degree," said Cousino. 
Following graduation, Cousino hopes to work as a project leader, a position deal­ing with consulting and help­ing business people communi­cate with the needs and requirements of computers. 
Junior Kara Bergeman chose MIS as a major because of its need in the business world. 
"The program is very struc­tured right now because it is new. It's an up and rising field. Most industries are look­ing for graduates with this type of degree," she said. 
Associate Professor of Mathematics Mary Connolly is one of the many individuals who played a role in organiz­ing the major. 
"The MIS major is perfect for a student who has a strong interest in business and infor­mation technology," said Connolly. "It is an exciting time at Saint Mary's for stu­dents and faculty working in computer science. Not only do we have a new major. but also 
for Susan Vance, Professor of the campus is bursting with Business Administration and new technology. It is a joy to Economics. teach up-to-date courses in 
"It's exciting to say I'm the . new technology classrooms." 



Pulliam Journalism Fellowships 
Graduating college seniors are invited to apply for the 27th annual Pulliam Journalism Fellowships. We will grant IO-week summer internships to 20 journalism or liberal arts majors in the August 1999-June 2000 graduating classes. 
Previous internship or part-time experience at a newspaper is desired. or other demonstration of writing and reporting ability. Those who go through the Fellowships often find new professional opportunities opening up at other newspapers during and after the program. W1I111ers will receive a $5,500 stipend and will work at either The Indianapolis Star or The Arizona Republic. Opportunities for online training are available, along with reporting experience at our major metropolitan daily newspapers. 
Early-admissions application postmark.deadline is Nov. 15, 1999. By Dec. 15, 1999, up to five early-admissions winners will be notified. All other entries must be postmarked by March 1, 2000, and will be consid­ered with remaining early-admissions applicants. Successful applicants will be notified on or before April 1, 2000, and will be asked to respond immediately with a letter of intent, at which time one-third of the cash grant will be mailed to the Fellow. 
To request an application packet, visit our Web site, e-mail us or write: Russell B. Pulliam Pulliam Fellowships Director Indianapolis Newspapers P.O. Box 145 Indianapolis, IN 46206-0145 

orld 



Monday, November 1 , 1999 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Mandela lobbies for 
Mideast peace 
!OI IANNESHUHG, South Africa 

Formnr l'n•sidnnt Nolso11 Mandnla is travel­ing and spr>akin,g out for llw MiddlP East pHttce solution tlmt he µroposcd earlier this month, appan•ntly ignoring his pledge to stop back from thn world stage. In an ininrviow in tlrn Sunday lndtipendm1t of' Johannesburg, Mandda said he would travel again next month t.o Urn Unit.ml States to lobby for the plan. The hero of South l\frica's light against apar(.lwid rt!tirnfl from tlw presidency in Juno, plodging to spnnd more time with his fanHly and lnss time dnaling with political issues. But tlrn Mideast pnacn procnss involving Israelis 1111d /\rubs has draw11 him back. 
Gore targets young voters, especially women 
WJ\SIIINGTON 

VirP l'ri•sidP1ll /\] Gorn said Sunday Im has hirod l"t•minist aulhor Naomi Wolf' to help altral'l younger voters, especially women. Wolf's books nspousn somo controversial viPws. In lwr laltost, "'Promiscuities," she arguml among otlwr things that schools should lt>ach sul'.11 things as masturbation IH•r.ausP it is morn rnalistir than abstinence and safor than sPxwtl inLPrcoursc. Gore was askPd on ABC's "This Wnek" about a Time magazi1w rPport that Woll' is dellply involved in his campaign, including advicn on how to ronvim:i\ vot11rs that Gore is not a permanent No. 2 hut is an "alpha mah," who should be in rharge. "Sim's a valued adviser, and she'll rnmain one," Core said. "She's one or several rnmpaign advis1ffs." lie added that Wolf works primarily wilh his daughter, Karenna Corp Srhi!T, 011 an lnterirnt outreach effort to "attract young womt)n and young men to par­tidpatP more in this campaign." 
Georgians vote for new parliament 
TBILISI, Georgia 

hluard Shevardnadze predicted victory Sunday for his party in Georgian parliamen­tary elections that could signal whether he will bn re-electnd µresident of the former Sovitit rt•public next ynar. "I think that the tilections will show the significant success of llin l/11io11 ol' Citizens." Shevardnadze said as lw cast his ballot shortly after the polling lrngan Sunday morning. Shevardnadze's Union of Citizcms of Georgia party was favored to comn out ahead or its closest rival. the Georgian Hn11aissance Union, which is headed hy popular regional leader Asian Abashidze. Sunday's parliamentary election, the third sincfl Gflorgian independence, was seen as a hist run f"or Shevardnadze and Abasbidze. 
t•kiil#l®&l+t,;n
Dow AMr.x: 
800.80 }ONES "7·25 Nasdaq:
+107.33 
2966.-13 
Li 
+91.21 
NYSE: 
625.47 t7.32 S&P S00: Composite 
Volume;
1362.93

10,729.33 
655,800,000
+91.21 
VOLUME LEADERS 
,~!CE

CONPND' IJC!IJ\ 1t CIUJIOI S CIWfOJ 
llffloL C'OJ\P rnrc . 7,;;i,& .,. 25;25 77.U ,,lCJtOl'OrI' C'OltP NBFT' . l.f9 .2.u,o 9l. 56 TYCO IWTL l,,'l'D TTC -t.23 -,.0600 U.H CJ'ICO S'UITUIS csco . 4.,31; . l, 06:l!i 1,.00 ALL C'OMPUTSJ DELt .,.:a . l.. 6:iD0 &0.12 NC::C lfOJ\t.lX:ON UI WC<lM t·J.tl . 2. u,o 85.U MIIUCA OWL.lid M>t . J;.Jl +l. 0000 1..1,.,0 COIIPAQ COlll'UTIUl CPQ +l.32 +o, a,5 19. 06 Cl1'11JJI0'11' IINC C 1-0,:n +0,U:SO u.u At.t.llD lt,IIU CO ucc +O.ll +0.0HO u .. o, 
Associated l're<s 

PRISTJNA, Yugoslavia 
With concern rising over the lack of adequate shelter, the U.N. refugee agency flew tons of warm clothing into Kosovo on Sunday to help hundreds of thousands of people cope with the coming Balkan winter. 
Elsewhere, Yugoslavia's indflpendent Beta news agency reported two week­end grenade attacks un Kosovo's dwindling Serb community. 
An Antonov 124, the 

Associated Press 

BOSTON 
An EgyptAir jetliner with 217 people on board, including dozens or American tourists, plunged mysteriously into the ocean off Nantucket Island early Sunday, 33 minutes after leaving New York for Cairo. 
By nightfall, searchers had retrieved debris and one body, but held out little hope of finding survivors in the chilly Atlantic waters. 
Authorities said there was no distress call from the pilots before the Boeing 767 plummeted to the sea in two minutes from its cruis­ing altitude of 33,000 feet. Though the FBI and other intelligence agencies began checking on the possibility of sabotage, President Clinton and other officials said there was no immedi­ate indication of foul play. 
Searchers found two par­tially inflated life rafts, life jackets, seat cushions and other small debris, none with any burn marks, said Coast Guard Rear Adm. Richard M. Larrabee. A finding of such marks on debris could suggest the possibility of a fire or explo­sion aboard the plane. 
The air search was sus­pended after dark, but ships continued scouring the area. The Coast Guard said chances of anyone surviving more than 12 hours in the 58-degree water were slim. 
A Navy salvage ship, the USS Grapple, and Navy divers were leaving Norfolk, Va., on Sunday night and were expected to join the search by late Monday, with orders to take debris and remains to a Navy base in Rhode Island. 
U.S. officials indicated a majority of the 199 pas­sengers on Flight 990 were Americans. includ­ing a group of 54 people bound for a 14-day trip to Egypt and the Nile. Alan Lewis, chief executive of 
the Boston-based travel agency Grand Circle Corp., said most or the group members were from Colorado, Arizona and the Pacific Northwest. 
The plane started its flight in Los Angeles and stopped at New York's John F. Kennedy International Airport. It took off again at 1:19 a.m. EST and went down at 
1:52 a.m., roughly 60 miles south of Nantucket. The Coast Guard deployed ships, reconnaissance planes and helicopters to search an area of about 36 square miles, in waters about 270 feet deep. 
YUGOSLAVIA 

U.N. prepares for winter in Kosovo 
world's largest transport plane, landed at Pristina's airport with 60 tons of clothing for women and children, according to Peter Kessler, spokesman for the 
U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees. The clothing includes winter underwear for children and women, children coats, and 65,000 pairs of children's hoots. 
Last week, European Union officials said about 300,000 of the province's 
1.4 million people lack ade­quate shelter because so many homes were destroyed during the 18­month Yugoslav crackdown on ethnic Albanians, which triggered the 78-day NATO bombing. 
NATO-led peacekeepers entered the province June 12 after the Yugoslavs withdrew. But delays in committing funds and other bureaucratic hur­dles have prevented a major reconstruction effort. Nighttime tempera­tures in mountainous parts of Kosovo are already approaching freezing. 
Another UNHCR official. Lars Sommmerlund, told 
The Associated Press his agency has prepared a distribution plan for win­ter supplies and will start deliveries this week. UNHCR trucks were standing by at Pristina airport when the plane arrived Sunday. 
The advent of winter adds a new dimensitm to a NATO and U.N. mission that has spent months struggling to restore order and curb revenge attacks by ethnic Albanians angry over the brutality of the Serb-led Yugoslav crack­down. 


Monday, Novem~er , page 7 
6(~;~1~9;9~=========~Th~e~O~bs~er~veg;r~.~N~A.~TgIO~NgAL~~NE~W~S===============:============= 
Shepard defense tests 'diminished capacity' 
Associated Press 
LARAMIE. Wyo. 

The theory that Aaron McKinney pummeled Matth(lw Shepard because he made a se~­u al advance goes on trial this week as lawyers try to prove McKinney suffemd from a dimin­ished capacity at the time of the beating. . . 
McKinney is on trial for ro~­bery. kidnapping and murder m the death of the gay college ~tu­dent. llis lawyers are seeking conviction on a lesser offense like manslaughter to avoid a possible dPath snntnnce. 
They have two approaches, both of which are aimed at prov­ing that McKinney sulTo~cd fro'.11 a mental disease or detect that preventnd him from knowingly or purposefully committing mm:dc~ -the "diminished capacity rltlfr.nsP. 
When McKinnny's defense gets into full swing Monday, the lawyers plan to offer te~timony that his mental capacity was diminished by drugs and alcohol, an approach that is allowed under Wyoming law. 
But they have combined that approach with the theory that a person with latent homosexual tendencies will have an uncon­trollable, violent reaction when propositioned by a homosexual. Some havr. called this thtl "gay panic"defonse. 
McKinney's lawyers have_ con­tended he Iosl control durmg a drunken. drug-induced rage because a sexual advance by Shepard triggered memories of a childhood homosexual assault. . 
"It's the 'excus!l defense,' and 1t has never been allowed under Wyoming law. "said Carbon County Attorney Tom Campbell, who is not inv()lVBd in the prose­cution of the case. 
No stale legislature has recog­nized the gay panic d:-!'ens_e because thern is no scient1hc ev1­clence to support it. he said. 
Judge Barton Voigt is expect!'d to rule Monday on whether McKinney's lawyers will be allowed to present evidence sup­porting the theory. 
McKinney and Russell Henderson, both 22-year-old roofers. are accused of luring Shepard out of a Laramie bar and taking him to a remote area near town. where they robbed him of $20, lashed him to a wooden fence and pistol-whipped him into a coma. 
Shepard, 21, died five days later. 
Henderson is serving two life sentences after pleading guilty to murder and kidnapping. 
During testimony last w~ck, prosecutors offered jurors a time­Ii ne of the events the night Shepard was beaten, end!ng _with McKinney's jailhouse w_ntes~wn. 
McKinnev's thcn-g1rlfnend, Kristen Pric:e, testified that he went on drug-and-alcohol binges that sometimes lasted for clays. But she said she did not see McKinney use drugs or drink the day of Shepard's beating. . 
In his taped confession, McKinney said Shepard reached down and grabbed his leg while he was driving. He said he became angry and struck Shepard with his hands and a 
gun. . 
Diminished capacity defenses have taken unusual forms, none more notorious that the "Twinkie" defense used to help Dan White avoid a murder con­viction for shooting San Francisco 
Mayor George Mosc?n~ and city supervisor Harvey Milk m 1978. 
White, a former police officer and firefighter, contended his mental capacity was diminished from eating too much junk food. 
In the furor that erupted over the verdict, the California Legislature abolished the dimin­ished capacity defense. In 1985, White committed suicide months after he was released on parole. 

New York City prepares for Y2K 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Forget the bottled water. 
Dump the cases of canned 
soup. Save the year's supp!y 
of batteries for Juniors 
Gameboy. When it comes to 
the Y2K computer glitch, New 
York's tedmo-types say the 
Rig Apple bit first. . 
The city has been workmg 
since 1995 to replace 
microchips, hardware and 
software, and rewrite com­
puter coding that otherwise 
would have thrown New York 
into chaos when the clock 
struck a second past midnight 
Dec. 31, 1999. 
Programmers reviewed 65 
million lines of computer 
code written in 65 different 
programming languages. The 
city replaced more than 
10,000 computers and 
bought 50,000 new ones. 
For starters, there were 
677 "high-priority" systems 
to evaluate. Those were the 
ones left after Deputy Mayor 
Joseph Lhota deleted psuedo­
important items some a_g~ncy 
heads had listed as critical, 
like their scheduling soft­
ware. (Get a calendar, Lhota 
told them.) 
Despite a troublesome 
comptroller's audit which 
showed a number of city 
agencies behind schedule, 
those working on the bug say 
they've beat it. 
"We are the best city in the 
country, actually I figure_ in 
the world, in terms of dealmg 
with any sort of crisis," said 
Brian Cohen, executive direc­
tor of the city's $315 million 
Y2K project. 
"If having an extra $50 
over the weekend makes you 
feel more comfortable, then 
you should do that," he said 
of New Year's Eve, 1999. 
"But your money is safer in 
the hank." 
The city itself is printing an 
extra batch of paychecks. 
More police will be on duty, and emergency shelters will be opened. 
Overseeing it all will be a staff huddled in a new $13 million emergency crisis cen­ter. Built to withstand hurri­cane-force winds, bombs and power failures, it contains food and water for the 100 people who are supposed to know how to fix anything that goes wrong. 
Y2K could he their greatest test. The problem dates back to the early days of comput­ing, when programmers squeezed every bit of mem?ry from their machines by usmg the last two digits to stand for a year. So 1987 became "87," and the Year 2000 was rep­resented by "00." The short­hand creates problems if a computer mistakes "00" for 1900 when adding or sub­tracting a date. 
The mayor's office, the util­ities. the Federal Aviation Administration, all agree such problems won't happen. Their comput<ff programmers say they have burrowed into every technological crack to fix the so-called Y2K bug. 
Working from an office li_t­tered with Y2K paraphernalia -including a battery-pow­ered hat with a digital clock ticking down to Jan. 1 ­Cohen has directed an army of city employees, consul­tants, electrical and commu­nications workers in updating old-fashioned computers. 
But the thing about Y2K is, no one will know for sure how bad it is until it gets here. And so the city is preparing for the equivalent of a three-day storm. 
Deputy New York Police Commissioner Richard Sheirer, the NYPD's Y2K guy, says thetechnical aspects of the problem are under con­trol. 
From the 911 emergency response system, to the 
NYC'$ Preparations: 

?• 10;d00 computers replaced 
/•50,QOO.·newcomputers bought 
• dates on i::omputers chang,ct)to JQdJ1$UWo digits of the 
i!J, 
t;ttaminion emergency crisis fCCJ!lt81'. bqilt 

batch Clf paychecks will nted 
inore emergency 8"eltel'$ will 

...,..•
-
robots that disarm bombs, to computer-controlled linger­printing devices, the depart­ment has tested each com­puter-driven component it uses. 
But the police department's effort is just beginning. The big job comes New Year's Eve, when the department has to oversee the party of the millennium. 
It doesn't want a blackout to match. 
Concern over the possibili­ties have driven some New Yorkers to ... do nothing unusual. While some Midwesterners are stocking up on ammunition and The Denver Post has published a Y2K recipe section advising how to make the most of canned beans, Manhattan stores haven't even ordered extra bottled water. And no one seems to care. 
"New Yorkers are used to hiding things and ignoring things and turning away from things," says Patrick Shannon, ·a city resident. 


WEARING OF THE PLAID
WE·. , ·WAl'-E TII~-G:f.Al):E' 
ND AREA STORES: 
•1706 South Bend Ave 


-

page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, Novembdr 1, 1999 
The University of Notre Dame 
cordially invites you to attend a special evening celebrating the life and ministry of 
Reverend Leon Sullivan 
1999 Notre Dame Award Recipient 

Wednesday, November 3, 1999 
7:30 p.m. 

Prayer service and award ceremony 
Jordan Auditorium College of Business Administration Reception to follow in the foyer of the auditorium 
Rev. Sullivan will sign copies of his new book, "Moving Mountains," from 1-2 p.m. Nov. 3 at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore Rev. Leon Sullivan 


civil rights leader and 
pastor emeritus of 
Zion Baptist Church, 
Philadelphia 
"Leon Sullivan's struggle against racial prejudice and economic injustice has been lifelong, exemplary and inspiring. In honoring his life and work, we hope to recommit ourselves to the same struggle." 
-Father Malloy 
--7 
Monday, November I, 1999 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Chinese tycoon faces fraud charges 
As,ucialcd Press 
BEI.IING 

I In was billPd by the nwdia as Lhn riclwst man in China, busy building an empire of private invnstmnnts and funding rvery­Lh ing from socc11r clubs to a Norlh l'olti «JXiJPdition. 
Now, his t'mpirr. rnportl'dly a piln ol' debts, Mou Qizhong is sclwdulml to stand trial Monday for fraud in a case that clos11s out a decadn in which Mou's brash style and his mysterious risP and foll typilied llw f'rl' net.ic chaugm; of' China's rnf'orrn nra. 
For sumo in China, Mou's casP is a cautionary tule aboul tlw diflkultins private husinnss­ns face in a socialist system. Olhnrs say it illustral!is how wnak accounting ruins mnkn it possiblP for a pnrson with grand sclwnws to piln up loans without makin~ morwy. 
At isstw in the casn against Mou and !'our f'ormer mnploy«ws or his I.and Croup is a ~7!i mil­lion loan allegedly obtained by l'raud from a staw bank in 1995. A company lawyPr, Yao Bin, rduscd to say how .\fou would plPad lwf'orn tlw lnl<!rmcdiate l'coplc's Court in the cnntral city of'Wuhan. 
But Oil(\ of Mou's accountants insists 1111 fraud was committed. 
Unqualilfod for a business loan under Chinese rules bccuusc Land Croup was a pri­vati• company. l\1ou lunwd to a statt1 l'irm, !lubci Light Industrial Import and Export. for a lnttnr of' credit, said the acrountant. Zhnng Pingchuan. 
llubci Light turnml $22 mil­lion of llw loan over LO Land (;rnup, and Mou used tlrn money to inv«isl in a satnllitc deal that f'ailt•d. leaving him unable to repay tlw loan. Zlwng said. IlP said Im did not know what lmcunw of lhti rnst of the money. 
By tlll'n. Zheng said, Land Group was beset by financial probltims. and its d1~bts now total $48 million. Police look Mo11 into custody in .January. 
I.and Group was hardly alone in its problrnns getting a loan. China's legislature passed a bill last year aimed at easing some of the discrimi11ation private Chirwsn busirwssns have !'aced. 
Tim measurn declared that pri­vate ind uslry is an important part of China's socialist econo­my. 
That a loan could prove Mou's undoing underscores his risky style or business. 
M()u burst into China's public consciousness with a widely publicized deal .in 1989 to swap 500 freight cars of factory-sur­pl us socks, shoes and other goods for four Tu-154 Soviet passenger planes, netting $25 million. 
Mou played himself' up as tlrn richest man in China in order to get more loans. a for­mer consultant to his company said. The Chinese media soon bought into the image. His Land Group became a vehicle for self-promotion, its English­language newsletter trumpet­ing his deal-making prowess. 
One 1997 article -"A pri­vate entrnpreneur's struggle in China" -claimed Mou used $]6 borrowed from friends and rnlatives in 1980 to set up communist China's first pri­vate r\ntorpriso. alarm dock marketer .Jiangbei Tracie and Trust Service, in his home of Wanxian County. 
The article praised Mou as a "social activist" who sponsored a soccer club, a music festival at a univ11rsity and other civic events. lie contributed $:-160,000 to support China's lirst rnsearch expedition to the l\orth Pole, in 1995. and gave $120,000 in l 996 for space exploration, the article said. 
Mou also had big plans to clev«)lop a port in China's far north at Manzhouli to exploit the resources of' neighboring Siberia. lfo also set his sights on buying overseas commer­cial banks. all for the sake of largt1-scale investment in China's infrastructure. 
Mou has faced charges twice beforn. During the chaos of' the I966-76 Cultural Hevolution he was jailed for criticizing the radical leadership that had destroyed what was left by then of private business. lie was sentenced to death, but regained his f'reedom in the late 1970s. Jailed again in 1983 for "speculating," Mou was released a year later. 

Armenia mourns prillle minister 
Wednesday when five national­
Associaced Press 
ist gunmen burst into parlia­ment, where members of the 
Armenian Cabinet were
YEREVAN, Armenia 
attending a question-and­
Mourners used their hands 
answer session. The gunmen
to push earth over the polished 
surrendered Thursday after an
wooden coffin of Prime 
all-night standoff with police. 
Minister Vazgen Sarkisian on 
"They wanted to destroy our
Sunday, as thousands of people 
statehood," said An aid
remembernd the leader slain 
llakhshian, the wife of slain
by gunmen who burst into par­
parliamen­
liament. 
tary deputy
Ab OU t 
Y u r i

15,000 "Every era gives birth to its 
Bakhshian. 
mourners 

own hero. Vazgen Sarkisian "They have
filled the 

was the hero ofthe third failed, and 
square 
we will not

outside Armenian republic." 
allow it in
t h e 
the future.
national 

Robert Kocharian either." 
opera, 
The prose­

where the Armenian president 
cutor-general
bodies of 
has charged
Sarkisian, 
the gunmen

parliamentary speaker Karen 
with terrorism and attempt­
Demirchian and six other offi­
ing to weaken state power.
cials and legislators had lain in 
Thev cou Id face 10 to 15
state for three days. 
year's in prison or the death
"Every era gives birth to its 
penalty, though there has 
own hero," Armenian 
been a moratorium on capital
!'resident Houert Kocharian 
punishment since 1994.
told the crowd. "Vazgen 
After the funeral, the dou­
Sarkisian was the hero of the 
ble doors of the opera house
third Armenian republic." 
opened, and Sarkisian's and
Armenia. which became 
Demirchian's open coffins
independent following the 
were carried out side by side
1991 Soviet collapse, also used 
on the shoulders of a military
to be part of Ottoman Empire. 
honor guard.
This is third independent 
Five other bodies were
Armenia. 

loaded onto hearses for burial
The officials were killed 
in separate cemeteries. The 
sixth. legislator Armenak Armenakian, had been buried Saturday in a churchyard near his home in Yerevan. 
At the bottom of the steps, to the strains of a hymn by Armenian composer Aram Khachaturian, the two columns started moving in opposite directions. One car­ried Sarkisian toward the Threo Hills military cemetery, while the other brought Demirchian to the Armenian national pantheon. 
Sarkisian's coffin was attached to a gun carriage for the one-mile journey to the cemetery. A line of Armenian priests. wearing black hoods and carrying silver-tipped staffs, led the way. Many mourners had to jog to keep up with the military vehicle. 
The cemetery holds the remains of thousands of Armenians who were killed in fighting with neighboring Azerbaijan during the 1980s and '90s over the ethnic Armenian enclave of Nagorno-Karabakh. Sarkisian had been a commander dur­ing the war, and lator served as Armenia's defense minis­ter. 
After the coffin was lowered into the grave, dozens of men knelt alongside and pushed dirt over the coffin with tlrnir hands, not shovels -as they would in war. 
Columbian rebels harass businessITian for contributions 
Associated Press 
BOGOTA, Colombia 

At first, the entrepreneur didn't allow the phone calls past his secretary. But the caller politely persisted and the busi­nessman finally picked up. 
He wishes he hadn't. 
On the line was a guerrilla. Ile was calling via a stolen cel­1ular phone from mountains just outside tlrn capital. He wanted a "contribution" to the cause. 
Following that call two years 
HOMES FOR RENT 

•Oomus Propeties has two4 rive, six.and nine bedroom studf!nt 
housing avaHable 

•Sludent neighborhoods close to 
campus 
~Security systems provided -Well maintained homes 
~Mruntenance staff on call 
Available for the 2000/200 I school year 

BETTER HURRY!!! ONLY S HOUSES LEFT 
Contact Kramer (219)274·1501 or (219)234-2436 or (219)674·2572 
ago, the entrepreneur became The risks are minimal. The one of hundreds, perhaps thou­FAHC simply hires criminal sands, of businessmen in bands to do any dirty work ­Bogota who now discreetly surveillance, enforcement, make regular extortion pay­abduction of' targeted business­ments to the country's largest men who refuse to pay. They leftist rebel band. the never need step foot in the capi­Revolutionary Armed Forces of tal. Payments are made outside Colombia, or FARC. Bogota in rebel-held areas. 
"It's a hush-hush problem, of As the 48-year-old entrepre­incalculable criminal propor­neur discovered -after initially tions," says .Juan Mesa, who resisting payment and contact­runs Pais Libre, an independent ing law enforcement ollicials ­citizen rights group that keeps the police could not help him. 
track  of  Nor is he  
extortions and kidnap­ "{Extortion is} a hush-hush  wealthy enough to  
pings. Despite liv­ing in a country dis­ problem, of incalculable criminal proportions."  buy a bul­letproof car and h i r e  
tinguished  round­ 
since the mid-1980s by the  Juan Mesa Pais Libre  the-clock protection for him­ 

world's high­est kidnap­ping rate. Bogota's business class had always lived relatively free from the rebel extortion that has long affiicted ranchers and oilmen in the countryside. 
That changed roughly two years ago. No longer a refuge, the capital became fertile ground for rebel "tax collectors" demanding payments known euphemistically as "la vacuna," or vaccine. 
Businessmen were suddenly confronted by a simple fact of an encroaching conflict: Wherever the gur,rril!as out­muscle the state, they demand their due. 
Already masters in roughly half of rural Colombia -and looking for new revenue sources beyond the taxing of' illicit drug production and ran­som kidnappings -a handful of enterprising FARC commandf1rs hatched the urban extortion scheme. 
self and 
his family. 

So he decided to pay. 
"It's the perfect scam," said 
the entrepreneur, who set strict conditions in talking to The Associated Press: "You can't mention any particulars about me, about my business or my family or I'll be a dead man." 
This affable man al the 
height of his earning powers is 
all frayed nerves and paranoia. 
His wife is ill, consumed by 
fear. He worries constantly 
about his children. 
"You spend all your days, all your waking hours, thinking about it," he says. "You try to figure out how to get out of it. but in the end you can't. You're trapped." 
So far, he has paid 40 million pesos -about $30,000 ­divided into two annual pay­ments. He says he personally 'knows 20 people who do the same, though the amounts vary. 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE page 10 BSERVER October 31, 1999 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Nom Dame, IN 46556 024 Sou,h Dining Hall, Notre Dame, lN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Michelle Krupa 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
M. Shannon Ryan  David Rogero  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  
Laura Petd!e  

N.l-WS EDITOR: Tim Logan V1CWPOINT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughen SPORTS EDITOR: Brian Kessler 
SCENE EDITOR: Michael Vanegas SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Dalum 
AnVt.RTISING MA.'1/AGER; Bryan Lun 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: !3rct lfoelat SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers WEB ADMINISTRAfOR: Erik Kushto 
CONTROLLER: Timothy Lane GRAPHICS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE M\NAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX............................................................. 631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................63!-6900/8840 
observer@darw in. cc. nd. edu EDITOR IN CIIILF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AssT. ME.................... 631-454 l BUSINESS OFFICE ........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWl'0INT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoim. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. I@nd.edu SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHorn........................................................631 •876? SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:llobsen,er. nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, fcarures and opinion columns, as well as carroons, reviews and breaking news Ii-om rhe Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up•to-the 
movies/mwic for 
minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advenise for policies 
onlinc features for spe­
and rates ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives ro search for 
about The Observer 
articles published afcer 
ro meet the editors and 
staff
August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the srudents ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. Acting as pub­lisher ofThe Observer, the administration ofthe University ofNorre Dame du Lac prohibits the adver­tisement ofalcohol and The Observer's acceptance of advertisements from specified rypes ofgroups. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the autltors and not necessarily those ofTh.e Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Qumiom regarding Obsen,erpolicies should be direct­,dro Editor in Ch,4 M,cklk Kmpa. 


Reforming Pat Buchanan won't work 
Last week, perennial presidential candidate Pat Buchanan, disgusted with the two major political parties, decided to blaze his own trail by announcing that he will carry the Reform Party ban­ner in the 2000 
Mike Marchand
presidential elec­tion. Buchanan has 
Questionable
recently become 
Freedoms

disillusioned with the Republican Party, believing that it's too liberal, while Republicans and many other voters have become even more disillusioned with Buchanan following portions of his book, "A Republic, Not An Empire," where he claims that the United States should not have come to the aid of Poland and France in the Second World War. So Buchanan turned to the Reform Party, the one party where political ideologies don't matter, the party with infallibly eloquent speakers like Jesse "The Body" Ventura. Well, maybe it should be "The Brady," after his Playboy inter­view. 
Although Buchanan bolted to a much thinner political field, switching to Reform will not put him on the fast track to a nomination. Party founder Ross Perot has yet to rule out running. Zillionaire Donald Trump, who also officially switched party affiliation from Republican to Reform last week, will decide early next year whether or not he will toss his hat into the ring. Bad blood already exists between Trump and Buchanan, as the Don has publicly blasted Buchanan, calling him a "Hitler-lover, a racist, a homophobe, and a member of the crazy right who would only appeal to the wacko vote." Even if Buchanan escapes that gaunt­let, he might still face a no-holds­barred cage match for the nomination with "The Brady," who is the Reform Party's highest officeholder. Although Ventura pledged to serve out his term as Minnesota governor until 2002, he has wavered recently and might run for president. (Furthermore, he could probably snap Buchanan in half.) Should Buchanan survive that, he must face an election where the two political Leviathans have tilted the odds in their favor with fundraising efforts that dwarf the $12.6 million in federal matching funds that he will receive as the Reform Party nominee. 
However, Buchanan has displayed the ability to shake up elections, as he did by giving fellow 1992 candidate George Bush and '96 opponent Bob Dole tight races in the New Hampshire Republican primary elections. However, his campaigns bogged down afterwards, and were all but nonexis­tent by nomination time. For the 2000 election, Buchanan was little more than a 0attened speck on frontrunner George W. Bush's steamroller. Therefore, Buchanan took his ultra­conservative, makes-Archie-Bunker­look-like-a-hippie political views and quit, citing George W. Bush's large financial headstart and his disappoint­ment with the Republican Party. 
If it's revenge he wants, his outlet to the Reform Party might provide a deli­cious opportunity. Most three-party elections in the United States have one conservative, one liberal and one cen­trist or someone totally unaffiliated with either party (or politics in general) who usually samples voters from both Democrat and Republican candidates. The Reform Party has two very good examples of this phenomenon in Ross Perot and "The Brady." The twist to a Reform ticket led by Buchanan, howev­er, is that his extreme right-wing plat­form would most likely only siphon votes away from the Republican candi­date and could potentially hand the election to the Democratic nominee, although his anti-trade isolationism might pull in a few labor Democrats. 
Of course, this is all assuming that the Reform Party will even accept him. By his very nature alone, Buchanan seems an odd fit for the Reform Party, since his axe as a politician is social reform, whereas the Reform Party was created by Ross Perot to bring about economic reform. Also, if the Reform Party accepts him, they must hope he doesn't destroy them. As an upstart party with little nationwide political clout, the Reformers can't afford to have Buchanan rock too many boats or burn too many bridges -two activities which he has a long history of doing. As a matter of fact, Buchanan might have already exacerbated a preexisting split between Perot and "The Brady." Perot 
believes Buchanan can be the Reform candidate, while Ventura is prepared to throw his weight behind Trump should 
he run. 

The bottom line is, Buchanan can't win. Although he believes a grass-roots campaign can upset the political apple cart in a similar fashion as Ventura's 1998 Minnesota gubernatorial election, all of the good intentions in ihe world won't help him climb too much further than the 10 percent of the votes polls state he would receive in a three-way race with George W. Bush and Al Gore. 
So why does he try? He believes that he is the only politician that "fights today with conviction and courage to rescue God's country from the cultural and moral pit into which she has fall­
en." 

In other words, he's waging a holy war, And on that, Buchanan will proba­bly never reform. 
Mike Marchand is an off-campus junior English major who liked Jesse 
"The Body" better when he was still a 
wrestler, when he knew his role and 
kept his mouth shut. His column runs 
every other Monday, and his e-mail 
address is Marchand.3@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 

r::::==~=====~~Er-""::=:=:=:~====•ur::========:, 
YOUR. PROJECT I':> ~ KEEP THE COSTS = MY CONSCIENCE WON'T 
TO BU'ILD A CALL ~ DOWN BY MAKING ; ALLOW ME TO HAR.M 
CENTER TO HANDLE J THE WORKING ! INNOCENT EMPLOYEES. 
CUSTOMER. CONDITION&

i i 
QUESTIONS. 
lNHUMP..NE. ~ WE 
WON'T BE E s PAYING
o c 
~ ; ~O~HW 
!: ::' HIRE ANY 
IJ 

S INNOCENT 

.______..__~ILC:::::~~:::;::::;:~::::::~~LU_.J.~~~E;M;P;l;O;Y;EE;5=.::;....J 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The true way goes over a rope which is not stretched at any great height but just above the ground. It seems more designed to make people stumble than to be walked upon." 
Franz Kafka philosopher 



-

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE October 31, 1999 BSERVER page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Everyday heroes are all around us 
/\s last w,•nk's World Scrifis has shown, hasdmll is the type of tlmm sporl that producm; the most unlibily herons. llvnry player has tlw opportunity to conlributP t" Um 
t1m111's vic­
tory. Yet it 
is only in 
CPrtain cir-
1·um• 
S!iUICl!S, 
when the 
ganrn is in 
tho bal­
ance, can 
the lnast 
tulm1tud 
player ol' 
the tcum 
l.rn the 
twro. 
It happPns so often that spec­!iilors wail i11 ,wtir.ipation for nxcellencn l'rom the most unex­pnctml source. It could be tlrn home run or the stohm base. It could bn tlm diving catch or the pnrfoct sacrifice bunt. It always is unprndictable, aml it always is spm:ial. 
lfoggie .Jackson was know as "Mr. Octolmr" lrncause he ddiPd the norm and often won World Snries ganrns with his fJlay. Those who supportml the l(rnms for which he played, along wilh those who just admired Um exhibition of excel­lence, considered him a hero. Jackson's fame, like that nf Knute Hockne or Bab<i Huth, transcends continents and decades. Sports fans every­where consider them heroes. 
While society needs huroes to set standards of excellence, many of today's heroes are the ordinary people who have lived {Ir are living amnng us. My Notrn Damo classmat1\, Stiwe l'allucca. grew up in Kansas but is a lifelong Yankees fan. To this day. ! still will not lot him l'orget that as fourth-graders wn both sat in elnmentary school listening to the seventh game ol' tho 1960 World Series in which llrn Pittsburgh Pirates bPat the New York Yankees 10-9 in the final inning. Although wo sat 1,200 miles l'rom 1iach other and cheered l'or di[fornnl teams. our thoughts and hiipes hung on twery pitch as it was announced. When Pittsburgh's Bill Mazeroski lead off the bot­tom or t.lH1 ninth inning with the ganw winning home !'1111, I had a lwro. Stnvn was in tears. 
Today 1haw a1mtlrnr hero, not a Yankl'c, but. my dassmat,i St1we. Throughout tlw yours, he has shown mH how to lw gn,wr­ous. how tu ho lightlwartPd, how to us,1 humor. Itis courage and strong-th ar1\ rock solid, nspncially whnn Im curml for his fathm who suffered a long, slow death from i\lzhnimer's Disnasn. l ln exorcism! his per­sonal dnmons aftor that long ordeal and is a "clrnractnr" in his small rural Kansas town. 
Ilm·o11s walk among us, have passNl by us and will continue lo lrn a part of our lifo journny. They arn St\ldom recogniznhle, but do, in fact, surround us (Wnryday. Two fornrnr Notrn Dame profossors an• heroes of' 

mine. Frank O'Malley, "Mr. Chips of Notre Dame," sutfornd 
th,, life ol' the cross through a "perfectly dry martiui" yet 
taught mn to reach for faith 
through liwrature. I le is the lirst layman to he buried on campus in tlrn community cemetery. 
Leonard Summer, "you can call nw LPnny," t.aught. speech. tlw.aLer, fornnsics and debate at Notre Dame. At 87 years of age, he lives quietly near campus with his 40-inch television. During his tenure at Notre Dame, he won seven national clwmpionsliips. His students are some or the best lawyers, businessmen and politicians in the country. 
Herons can be benefactors like Notre Dame's Hay Siegfried whose humility and love for ND is larger than his material gains. lleroos can be priests like Fatlrnr Bill Seetch of Morrissny Manor who tends to the living conditions of the young men in his dorm and mends the souls of anyone who may cross his path. While the age group of his students remains a constant, time nips at him slowly in his role as Alumni Association chaplain. 
llcroes like Hex Rakow, Phil .Johnson and Chuck.Hurley work at Notre Dame maintain­ing safety for the entire com­munity. Heroes include Marge Strantz who has provided dedi­cated administrative support to the Student Affairs organization since my days at Notre Dame. 
Student heroes are in every corner of the campus. They arc those whose 15 minutes of fame may have come on "Wheel of Fortune" like Tony Guzzn, and who can teach me a social game called "beverage pong." lleroes are students who over­come uncertainty like Brian Tarquino and Doug Bartels when transferring like the early settlers of our Wild West from Dayton to Notre Dame, and are making an impact in their social circles. They are like Casey Mangine who dared to respond to this column via e­mail and dnveloped a friendship with this columnist. They are the young men in Old College contemplating a life in the reli­gious community in a time when their numbers are ever dwindling. 
Ileroes are alwavs World Snrics most valuable players, rising to an occasion when least expected and making an impact on others. While 01111 toam must lose as the rnsult of a hero in the World Series, sor:ietv always wins when a hc1:o pass­es by in everyday Iifo. The task for most of us is not to rank thn heroes ol' our lil'e. but lo become the nmbodimnnt of the those heroes who pass us by with or without a whisper. 
Gary J. Caruso is a '73 Notre Dame qraduate. llis column appears imery other Friday. 
The oiews expressed in this column are those of rhe author and not neccessarily those of the Observer. 

Let's pray for Andy Donlan 
Today I read the tragic story of Andy Donlan. After rnading it, I had the urge to make a heartfelt app!-ml to all readers. Please pray, and tell all of your own families and friends to pray for Andy Donlan and his family. When you have exhausted yourself in prayer, take a deep breath and start praying again. 
In tragic situations like this, we all feel help­less watching a fallen friend. However, never forget that we are not completely powerless. Each and every one of us has the opportunity to perform one of the must formidable actions. We can all pray. Through prayer, possibilities are endless. SometimP.s even the most daunting of odds can be overcome through prayer. I have witnessed this phenomenon personally during my experiences with brain surgery last year. Any member of my family or friends could testify to the presence of God through the power of prayer during my ordeal. Without the support brought by these prayers. recovery may not have become a reality for me. 
llowever, I was blessed with the opportunity to experience first hand the power of the will of God. 
I want all of you to know that I have never met Andy Donlan and have no idea who he is. But, you know what? That doesn't matter. Still, I bog you lo continue to pray for Andy and his family. With our help they too may feel the power of God in a glorious way. I would go on, but I have to cut this l!ltter short. I'm heading out the door on a trip to the Grotto. 
Brent Moberg Senior Keenan Hall October 28, 1999 

\.,,, 
Could God get into ND? 
Here's a gay joke I don't mind hearing. It was told by the priest at my home parish before I came to Notre Dame this past fall: 
A young, openly gay man had recently moved to a new community. As a practicing Catholic. he inquired about membership at the local parish. He had celebrated Eucharist there on several occasions -the music was uplifting, the homilies were always good, etc. Some parishioners learned this young man was gay and approached the priest. The priest, 
in turn, met with the young man about the dilemma. The priest knew the man was welcome to join, but he didn't know the effect his sexuality would have on the other parishioners. So the priest and the young man agreed they would pray on the issue and make a decision only with more thought and considera­tion. 
Several weeks later, the priest ran into the young man while shopping. The priest said, "J haven't seen you at church in a while." 
The young man replied, "Well, I took ynur advice to pray and see what God has to say about belong­ing lo your church." 
"Heally? And what did God tell you'.'" the priest asked. k 
The young man V answernd, "God said. I)~.,-/ "Don't bother! I've been try-. 
ing to get into that church for ;1 years. and they still don't even let me in!" 
1 

While it may be a harsh criticism to say God is not welcome at Notre Dame, I do not think too many would disagree with the criti­cism that gays and lesbians often are made to feel they are unwelcome on campus. 
Therefore, I feel Campus Ministry should be thanked and congratulated for its efforts over the past l'ew days for their work to support, welcome and stand in solidarity with the gay and lesbian community on campus. Even when the administration docs not recognize OUTrearhND, Campus Ministry was willing to rncognize it and its members as the campus cf'lebratf'd Solidarity Sunday this past weekend. r;athcr Tom Doyle should be especially recog­nized for his efforts to make all people feel wel­come here on campus. His considerations and challenges in the Campus Ministry column on Oct. 28 arc not only very poignant, but they are also words of great hope -of what this cam­pus could be if his words arc heeded -a fore­taste of that great day in heaven when all will be one. 
I was very lucky to be able to hand out Solidarity Sunday prayer cards and ribbons at the Basilica after the football game against Navy (despite the challenge to get past security to get into the Basilica so I actually could hand 
them out). How uplifting when members 
1/ 
of the congregation thanked me for what I was doing, or patted me on the back, or asked for additional copies of the prayer cards and ribbons. How disheartening 
when others -including a visiting priest -looked at the ground or straight 
ahead, just to avoid eye contact with me. But handing out prayer cards and rib­
bons is the easy beginning. The chal­lenge, as Father 

///4 
Tom wrote, comes each and every day as we try to follow the pledge on the prayer cards ­"to stand with Christ, in commu­nity, with all my brothers and sis­ters." I am certain 
that each person on r:ampus has one 
friend, one class­

mate, or even a roommate, who wants to come out to ­you -but is scared to death. Often it is easier to live with the lonnli­ness than the fear of rnjection by friends. They may want to share with you pain of a break-up, the hurt of a joke, the excitement of coming out or the happiness of' a new relationship, but they just do not know lrnw you will rea:ct. You may 
have no intention of rnjecting your gay and lesbians friends -hut how do they know that'? 
Please accept the r:hallengo of Campus Ministry and OUTreachND to stand in solidarity with your gay and lesbian brothers and sisters. Don't just throw those ribbons away -pin it to your bag, or hang it in your room -put it somewhere your friends can see it. Why'? Likn the parish who could welcome neither young gay mun nor God, St. Benedict in his Hule would give this answor: "All are to bo wol­cormid as Christ, for hn himsoll' will say: I was a stranger and you welcomnd me (Matt 25:35)." 
Charles Middendorf 
Graduate Student, Department ofTheology O'Hara-Grace Townhomcs October 3 I , I'J'J<J 


cen 

O
THE 

page 12 BSERVER Monday, November 1, 1999 
Students stay wired for success with caf1 
By KATIE WILHELM 
Scene W.riter 
For many Notre Dame students, the semester begins well, with intentions of reading a little every day, staying on top of llie workload and ultimately fat:ing finals afler only a little brushing up. But on both ends of fall break, the heart of the midterm, Lhese intentions change as quickly as the leaves turn color. 
While teachers increase the workload and tests, Acoustic cafe and Thursday night movir,s at Cushing become harder to resist. Serious studying is put off until the night before a test, and many Notre lJame students rely on a caffeine buzz to help them through the night. 
The popularity of caffeine on the Notre Dame campus is reflective of a similar trend throughout the world. According tu the Way Pages (www.plgrm.com/health/C/Caffeine.html, annu­al world consumption of caffeine is about 120,000 tons, which is equivalent to 70 mg of the drug a day for each inhabil.anL Fifty-four percenl of this total consumption is in the form of coffee, while 43 percent is derived from tea. Americans con­sume about 210 mg of caffeine a <lay. About 60 percent of United States' consumption is in the form of coffee, with tea and soft drinks each accounting for 16 percent of the total. 
Caffeine is the world's most popular drug. The white, bitter­tasting, crystalline substance was first discovered in coffee in 1820. Caffeine was then isolated from tea leaves in 1827 and named "theine" because it was believed to be a distinctly dif­ferent compound from the caffeine in coffee. Coffee began to be popular in Europe in the 17th century. By the 18th century, plantations had been established in Indonesia and the West Indies. 
Caffeine is a mild stimulant, and when consumed, makes one feel mow awake and alert. A high dose, however, may prevent sleep and lead to jittery feelings. Tea, coffee and soft drinks are the three major sources of caffeine. Caffeine also occurs in cacao pods and therefore can be found in cocoa and chocolate products. Each r,ight-ounce cup of coffee can provide approxi­mately 65 mg to 115 mg of caffeine, but the exact amount varies widely according to cup size, method of preparation and amount of coffee used. 
Generally, cups prepared from instant coffee contain less caffeine. and cups prepared by drip methods contain more caf­

Juniors Cathryn O'Connell, Maureen Rodgers and Jennifer Randall take a study break at Reckers to get
feine. A cup of tea usually has about 60 mg of caffeine and a 

establishment on campus offers caffeine in some form, whether it be coffee, tea, soda or chocolate.
soft drink may contain between 30 mg and 60 mg of caffeine. A cup of hot chocolate contains about 4 mg caffeine, and a be a great study aid. chocolate bar has between 5 and 60 mg, the amount of caf­feine increasing with the quality of the chocolate. This stimu­"Whether it's a huge cup ofcoffee, a six-pack ofMountain Dew or a few No-Doz, caffein 
lant is an ingredient of certain headache pills (30-65 mg}. It is 

me-up when faced with a paper deadline, a late night ofstudying or one ofthe more b 
also the main ingredient of non-prescription "stay-awake" pills (100-200 mg}. 
Crissy Manary 
On campus, caffeine is provided at virtually all food estab­
sophomore, Pasquerilla East 
NEW ON VIDEO 

Ignorance is bliss: The Blai 
. With the recent release of "Blair Witch" on video, a Scene movie critic tells of his experience with the movie, before the media hype. 
Author's note: ifyou have not yet seen this movie, do not read any further. 
I had the luxury of viewing a pirated copy or "The Blair Witch Project" nearly two months before its nationwide theatre release. My brother Patrick downloaded it off the internet anct then used a video card Jeffrey Q. Irish to proj11ct it onto the television in our bas1:­ment. He told me that "three graduate film studtmts went into the woods to make a Scene Movie documentary on the myth of the Blair Critic Witch. They newer came back; a year later their footage was found." Ile was going to show me the footage. I was intrigued. I le started the film around midnight and went upstairs, leaving me alone in the bas(mrnnt. 
I then experienced the scariest lilm of' my Iil'e. It was terrify­ing. For the last 45 minutes, I kept looking away and telling myself that it wasn't real. 1had trouble sleeping that night, so 1 slept on our couch and kept the lights and TV 011. I was still st:ared when I awoke. 
At breakfast, Pat.rick told me that the movie was actually fic­tional and the only reason that he said it was a true story was "to enhance the illusion." It worked! I laughed because I couldn't believe that a film could frighten me that mu1,;h. I pro­ceeded to invite my best friend over, and then I created the 



NSIDER 
O
THF 

Monday, November l, 1999 BSERVER Notre Dame vs. Navy 

By TIM CASEY Spom Wrirer 
As .Jarious .Jackson roll£id to 
his 111ft with 40 seconds left in 
Saturday's gamn against Navy, 
flaslws or Llw SPpt. 11 Purdue 
ganw aros11 in tlw minds or tlrn 
Irish l'aithl'ul. 

But. on Saturday, instead of' a falsn dwrk that co111'11scd tlrn otTPns1• and IPd lo d1if'eat, Jackson co11Li11ucd ldt, set his focl, mac! tlu• cfpfpnsc and !ortni.1 a I0-yard complt:tion t.o his third option, .Jay Johnson. Johnson caught it on Lhn left siddilw, elu<lnd Navy's Davcdo _l\lcxandPr at thP 1-yard line and draggpc] Bas Williams into the 
1·1Hf zorn' for a 28-24 lnad. 
'"II.-1./acksonl had it lucked 
und,~r his arm and lookPcl like 

lw was going to run the ball," 
ol'fnnsivn coordinator Knvin 
Hognrs said or tlrn clinching 

touchdown. "It SPPIIH1d likP it 
Itlw ball I hung up tlwrn [hrnver. 
B11l llwy hrokn !heir coverage 

and w1• madn tlrn play:· 
Busid,•s .lacksou and .Johnson. tlw Irish can thunk th,~ orficiat­ing r.rnw from t be At.Iantic Coast C:onf'PrPncP l'or putting llwm in position to win tlrn game. On :frd and 1 with l :35 left in the game, instead or running between the tackles for a first down. the Irish coachns called a pass play. But when Jackson rollnd right, a swarm of dcfunders knocked him to th1! ground for a nine­vard loss. · "It was the same play I called against Michigan and it went for a touchdown." Rogers said. "J didn't g11t tirn defense I hoped I'd gnt. They played it with four dPfonsiv(1 backs. We didn't haw VPry good options. We had a run-through linebacker we di<ln 't block." 
Facing 4th and 10 with no fimnouts remaining, the Irish wN<1 down to their final oppor­tunity. Showin·g once again his knack for tho dramatic, Jackson lln111d Bobhy Brown opnn for a l 0-yarct gain. Arter making the Ciltcl1. Brown intuitively lunged lovvard tlm first down marker. 
With the 80,012 funs in a sold­out Not.n· Damr. Starlium silr.ncod, won<lnring if they wen, going to he denied again likn against Michigan earli,ir in Orn season, thn chains were brought oul onto llrn field. 
First down. Notre Dame. By a centimeter. 

··1 was right there and knew it was close," Navy safety Chris Lepore said, who had a game­high 16 tackles. "They got it by a centimeter. It was the closPst measurement I've ever seen in my life." 
'Call it the luck of the Irish," L,ipore added. "It just makes it all the tougher lo swallow." 
I11 a day that saw tlrnm get flagged for 13 penalties. r.omrnit three turnovers (two intercep­tions and a fumble), and get a pair of kicks blocked, the Irish nnmled all the luck they could get.. 
Notre Dam11 built a 14-0 lirst half lead Oil a 31-yaru touch­down pass from Jackson to Bobby Brown and 1-yard toucb­down run by Terrance Howard mi.dway th.rough the second quarter. 
Navy wasn't about to quit. 
Following the second Irish touchdown, Brian !\ludden, making his lirst start at quarter­ba<· k, drove tho Midshipmen down the field. Mu.dd<rn, who ru<.;hed for a ganrn-high 168 yards, r.apped the 67-yard drive with an option keeper for an 11­yard touchdown 
Navy tied thn score at 14 when Lepore blocked a punt attempt by Joey Ilildbo!d. Chris Oliver recovered the ball in the end zone for the score. 
"Deke [CooperI is responsible for the second guy on the out­side," Davie said regarding the punt block. "lie said the third guy came over and really grabbed him and turned his shoulders. That kept him from blocking the s1:cond guy." 
Alexander's 20-yard intercep­tion return for a touchdown with 5:01 !crt in the third gave the Midshipmen their lirst lead of the game. But on the very next possession. Jackson knot­ted the game. 
Jackson ran an option left, kept the ball, cut back to the right and outran· the Navy defense for a57-varrl touch­down, the longPst run of his career. 
Tim Shuhzda's :n-yard linld goal gave the Midshipmen a 24­21 lead with six minutes remaining in the game. 
But then the J.J connoctiun gave the 1-rish their fourth­sti:aight victory on the season and their 36th win in a row against the Mh~shipmen, an NCM record. 
Navy had one last chance at the end as Madden attempted a llail Mary pass with seven sec­onds remaining. But the pass was broken up at the 18-yard line. The Irish escaped with a victory. 
"I told our team before tlrn game, at halftime and all week that we just had to !ind a way to beat Navy," Davie said. "I feel very fortunate to win. But you've got to give our kids credit." 
Suddenly the days of false checking, last minute losses. poor dock management and calling for the immediate resig­nation ol' Bob Davie seem far removed. A 4-0 October has put the Irish back into howl consid­nrations, possibly even the .Jan.1 Gator Bowl. 
lfofore they can look ahead. the Irish must focus on next week and a datu with defending national champion Tennesst1c in front of over I00,000 !'ans in Knoxville. 
."When we wnrn at 1-3 wo said one thing," Davie said. "llowewr we had to do it. let's try to get to 5-3 and let's go play a big-tinw football game down in Knoxville." 


player of the game  quote of the game  stat of the game  
Julius Jones  "Jt would be a hedl ~{ a 1ot  130 penalty yards  
The freshman tailback rushed J1Jr 146 yards. on 19 cttrries makin_q Irish fans forget about the loss of Tony Driver.  different at the end ofthe game if we didn't make that play." Kevin Rogers  Every time the Irish went five yards forward it seeTiled they went IO more yards back. Penalties almost cost Notre  
Irish offensive coordinator  Dame "the-streak" over NalJY.  

page 2 
report card 
C+ 
quarterbacks: Jariaus Jackson was inaccurate, threw two interceptions andfwnbled. He bailed the Irish 
out on the final drive and rushed 
for 74 yards, including a 57-yard touchdown. 
B+ 
running backs: Freshman Julius Jones rushed for a career-best 146 yards and Terrance Howars added 67 on a 
day on that the passing game 
struggled. 
B 
receivers: Bobby Brown had three key receptions including a 3 1-yard touchdown catch. Jabari llolloway 
and Jay Johnson had huge catches 
on the final drfoe. 
offensive line: Jackson had good pro­8-tection and the Irish rushedfor 324 yards. The line. however, was respon­sible for several costly penalties. 
B 
defensive line: The front four played well. Grant Irons had two tackles for a loss including a sack. Lance 
Legree had six tackles. 
B+ 
linebackers: Anthony Denman and Rocky Boiman each recovered a 
fumble for the Irish 
A-
defensive backs: The Irish secondary wasn't tested very often and only allowed seven receptions. A 'Jani 
Sanders had an interception. 
F 
special teams: Just when you thought it couldn't get worse. David Miller and 
Joey llildbold had kicks blocked. Jim Sanson's kickoffs were the highlight. 
coaching: Navy's Charlie Weatherbie 
outcoached Bob Davie, but Davie got the win. 
overall: The defense only 
allowed 10 points. The Irish 
narrowly dodged a bullet.
2.59 
Maybe it was more like Navy torpedo. 
adding up the nuinbers 
number of consecutive victo­
3 6 
ries over Navy -an NCAA record. 
57 
length of Jarious Jackson's touchdown run -the longest 
of his career. 
Irish penalty yards on 13 penalties. The most since 
130
the 1961 USC game. 
rush yards by Navy second string quarterback Brian
168 
Madden. 
number of hot dogs and boxes of popcorn, respectively, eaten by 
3 
the Scholastic writer in the press box. Not to mention an apple. 
8 
number of consecutive Irish victories following a bye week. 
number of Irish games decided by 
g
10 points or fewer in the past 11 games. 
524 
yards of total offense by Notre Dame 
. -------­

The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 

IRISH INSIGHT 
Even -though it was a day short of Halloween, Notre Dame football fans were surely spooked by what they saw in Saturday's 28-24 win over Navy. 
As the Irish faithful left Notre Dame Stadium after watching quarterback Jarious Jackson engineer yet another last­minute come­back, fans must have considered the numerous factors that all but guaranteed a Notre Dame vic­tory even before a second of foot­ball was played. 
The Irish had last weekend off to prepare. while the Midshipmen blew a 23-point lead to the Akron Zips. In that game, Navy starting quarterback Brian Broadwater suffered a broken collarbone and was declared out indefinitely. 
This lea sophomore Brian Madden to right the boat and i,ruido the Midshipmen offense in his tirst career start -against an opponent who has won 35 straight games against his team. 
Even Navy head coach Charlie Weatherbie was not at full strength, missing practice early in the week because of an operation to remove a kidney stone. 
So the question on most fans' minds after such a narrow victory is "How could the Midshipmen come so close with the odds so stacknd against them?" 
In order to answer that query, cred­
it has to be given to both sides: to 
Navy for coming out as strong as they 
did and to Notre Dame for making so 
many self-inflicted mistakes. 
Probably the greatest of thosf' Irish 
mistakes was the penalties -13 for 130 yards -the most in more than two decades. There were three per­sonal fouls called -in addition to warnings the oflicials gave early on in the game -and each had a profound effect on the drives undertaken. 


Late in the second quarter, after a 25-yard pass by Madden to the Notre Dame 40, a personal foul moved the ball to the 25-yard-line. Three plays later, the Midshipmen had their first touchdown of the game, instead of being outside of field-goal range. 
Early in the third quarter, when Notre Dame was driving deep in Navy territory, one personal foul pushed the drive back to almost mid-field, forcing Jackson to rely on deep pass­es. 
"I don't think it was lack of disci­pline," offensive line coach Dave Uorbely said. "I think the kids were a little frustrated. If the whistle blows, the whistle blows, and if you hit a guy after the whistle, it's obviously a penalty." 
When one of those deep passes was picked oIT by the Midshipmen's Bas Williams and returned to thflir own 5­yard-line, another personal foul on the Irish gave them some breathing room. 
"The ball was still in play," head coach Bob Davie said. ·'But he [Mike Gandy] was 40 yards away from it, and he unloaded on the kid. That's losing your composure and becoming frustrated." 
Then there were the holding penal­ties, so numerous that some remarked that Navy defensive line­men were taking advantage of their speed and lack of size to make the holding more blatant than it actually was. 
"They're active guys," Davie said, 
"but if it wasn't holding, they 
wouldn't have called it. They do a 
good job, though, moving the front 
around and slanting." 
Even ihe players had a hard time 
seeing why they were at fault. 
"It was very frustrating," Gandy 
Monday, November 1, 1992 
said, "because we were doing the same things we were doing all week and all season, and now they are call­ing holding. There is nothing you can do during the game to adjust your technique, though." 
There's a common word in all of these excerpts, from Davie to Borbely to Gandy: frustration. And in Saturday's game, that's something you never saw from the Midshipmen. 
The Midshipmen didn't lose their composure when things didn't turn their way. They didn't force them­selves into costly personal fouls when the Irish made great plays or their luck turned sour. 
After sacking Jackson the play before to put the Irish in their tough­est situation of the game, they didn't show their frustration on fourth down when Irish receiver Bobby Brown twisted forward to give the home team the one inch it needed for a first down. 
They simply acknowledged a job well done by their opponent -not taking their irritation out on those on the other side of the ball -and went back to work. 
"These guys will continue to fight back," Weatherbie said. "You're talk­ing about the United States Naval Academy. They'rn fighting·son-of-a­guns." 
And hopefully the Irish, from the coaching staff on down, learned something from this game. In order for a football team to take it'ielf to the next level, self-inllictod mistakes such as those committed in Saturday's game must bB avoided. 
Hopefully, the Irish will take the Midshipm1-m's approach to compo­sure to heart. A week from now. when they travel to Knoxville, their opponent will not be as forgiving, and frustration may again become a com­mon emotion on the Irish sidelines. 
The views expressed irt this column are those ofthe author and nol neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 


Monday, Novemher I, 1999 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Jones has career day in win over Navy 
,. 
to the outsid,, for a big gain. liy BRIAN KESSLFR Jones' runs set up a touchdown Spon, F.diwr that pul lhe Irish ahead 14-0 
midway through the second. 

Following Notre Dame's 28-24 "I folt very comfortable out victory OV(W Navy. Julius Jones then~ al'tor five or six carries," had tH> idna how many yards hr. .lonf's said. "I like situations like just ruslwd l'or. that where I get the ball and 
lfoportnrs swarmnd thn frm;l1-can make a play." 111a11 tailback as hr. Pnwrgcd Navy stormed back with 21 l'rnm l.lw lockPr room and one of unanswurnd poinls, hut the th,~rn clu1:d .lorws in lhal he Irish cal!('d on Jones again and picked up 14(1. Jones simply just like Ul'S, ho delivornd. smil•~d and lauglw<l. With IBss than five minutes 
"I don't know what to say remaining in the third quarter. uhout Ihat." the modest Jones Jones had lmck-Lo-back 12 yard said. "I finally had a good game ruslrns lo start the Irish drive 1111d showPd nvnryonn what I that culminated with .larinus could do. I had a fi.-ld day out Jackson's 57-yard touchdown tlwrn." run on the next play. 
.lorrns also probably wasn't "llc\'s very special. ll1~ awarn that tw just rncord(id thn rnminds me a lot of Autry most. rushing yards by a f'rnsh­DPnson." center John Merandi man laillrnck since Jerome said. "llis ability to read holes is llt111vn11s ran ror 148 in 1975. just unh<Jlievable," 
"WP w1•n\ having somo trou­With tlrn scorn tied in the bl1i passing the ball. so wo lmd fourth quart.Pr. the Irish went lo go IJark to almost exclu­Lim I'll II, .. sively to .Jones J111ms said. "I "/ like situations like that when it came k1ww tlw job time to handoff.
where I get the ball and 

had lo !w On their first 
can make a play."

dn,u• and I drive of the wantNI to quarter. Junes gPt in llwn• Julius Jones got four carries and do il. only to see it
Irish tailback 

Th<' li1w end with a blockf'd wf'll. blocked field Th1•n, Wl'I'<' goal. With holns 1,v1\rywlwrn. All I had to · Noln' Danw pinned on its own do was pick on!'. I had a good :i-yarcl line on its second drive, gamt>." Jones bai11id the Irish out again. .lorws obviously knew that. On the first play, he broke away IIt• was tl1t, hi·ight spot on a l'rom ddm1se and scampered :H clay in which llw Irish des1wr­yards. Jones watched the drive 
.. 
all•ly llPNlcd one to knock off stalled on the next play when t!w upsct-mindf'd Midshipmen. Jackson was sackfld and fum­
"ll•··s exciting to wateh," bled. Nolr!! llamP running backs "ll11 had that big run out of coach D1\s111011d Hobinson said. our endzone," offensive coordi­"lip's a good hack and he madn 11 ator Kevin Hogers said. "I some plays !'or us today. I think think he's a special guy, the lw's riially maLUring and slrnw­type that is going to make you i11g lw's worthy of getting nwrn miss. IIn was real close to going plays." tlw distance a couple of times. It 
"With his hands on the foot­was a good game for him to get hal I. (ip's a WPapon," head in. play under pressure, and get rnach Bob Davie said. tlin clrncks." 
t\l'L(ir just Oil!' carry for a yard With tlrn Irish trailing by three in tlw first quarter, Jones got points and driving late in the his d1a11cP lo shi1w in tlw scc­game. .Jones was at tailback oml. 011 NotrP Danw·s first driv,\ getting the carries. The Irish ol' that quarter. Jmws got (j\·1· w,\rn forced to pass the ball straight rarriPs that took the with time running out, but Irish l'rom tlwir ow11 44-yard .Jo,rns had already done his lirw down lo the Navy 13. Tlw part. highlight of tlw clriw was Jones' "Ile played a whale of a 28-yard run in which he started game," Navy head coach Charlie up the middl,:. b1\forc breaking Weatlwrbin said. 

JEFF HSU/The Observer Freshman Julius Jones plows over Navy safety Chris Lepore in the lrish's 28-24 victory over the Midshipmen Saturday. Jones rushed for 146 yards on 19 carries. 
AP Poll scoring summary & stats ESPN/USA Today poll 
team record points scoring 1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total scoring team record points 1 Florida State (55) 9-0 1,732 
Navy 0 14 7 3 24 summary 1 Florida Stale (44) 9-0 1,456 
2 Penn State (9) 9-0 1,683 

7 7 7 7 28 2 Penn Slate (13) 9·0 1,424
Notre Dame 1st
3 Virginia Tech (6) 7-0 1.607 3 Virginia Tech (2, 7-0 1,355 • 4 Tennessee 6-1 1,507 
ND -2:05 
4 Tennessee 6·1 1,264
Brown 31-yd. pas,
5 Florida 7-1 1,470 team statistics ND USNA 
!rnm Jackson 5 Florida 7-1 1,242 6 Kansas Slate 8·0 1,417 first downs 25 21 Miller kick, 7·0 6 Kansas State 8-0 1,196 7 Georgia Tech 6·1 1,331 rush es-yards 53-324 49-249 2nd 7 Georgia Tech 6·1 1,121 8 Mississippi Stale 7-0 1,207 
passing-yards 200 86 8 Mississippi State 7.0 1,032 Nebraska 7-1 1,155 NI) -8:09
g aomp-att-int 15-33-2 7-1M 9 Nebraska 7-1 1,010
Howard 1-yd. run
10 Wisconsin H. 1,067 return yards 89 61 MIiiar kick, 14-0 10 Wisconsin 7-2 932 11 Texas 7-2 996 

ll.~NA -5:50 11 Texas 7-2 849
punts-average 5-29.6 5-42.4
12 Alabama 6·2 935 Madden 11 pd. run 12 Marshall 8-0 755
Jiunbles-losl 1-1 J-2 Shubzda kick, 14-7
13 Marshall 6-0 931 

13 BYU 7-1 680
USN/I -1;07
14 Georgia 6-2 787 penalties-yards 13-130 7-30 6-2
Oliver blocked punt 14 Alabama 665 
15 BYU 7-1 734 lime ofpossession 32:01 27:59 return 
15 Michigan 6·2 649 
16 Michigan 6·2 691 Subzda kick, 14·14 6-2 620
16 Georgia
individual statistics
17 Purdue 6-3 602 

17 East Carolina 7-1 533 18 East Carolina 7-1 594 passing 3rd 18 Texas A&M 6-2 481 
19 Michigan Stale 6·2 472 ND -Jackson 15·33-2 /ISNA-5:01 19 Michigan Slate 6-2 400 
Alexander 20-yd.
Ohio State 6-3 459

20 USNA -Madden 7-17-1 20 Ohio Stale 6-3 370
Interception return21 TexasA&M 6-2 356 Shubzda kick, 21-14 21 Purdue 6·3 341 ..
rushing

22 Miami (Fla.) 4·3 302 N/J-4:DB 22 Miami (Fla.) 4.3 218
NO-Jones 19·146, Jackson 13-74, Howard 10-67, Fisher 10-J0, Jae kson 57-yd, run
23 Mississippi 6-2 262 Goodspeed 1-7 Miller kick, 21·21 23 Mississippi 6·2 146 

24 NOTRE DAME 5-3 112 

24 Arkansas 5-2 124
USNA -Madden 34-168, Lambert 12-63, Haines 1-3, Fay 1-(-2)
25 Southern Miss. 5-3 111 4th 25 So. Mississippi 5-3 109 
receiving IISN/\-5:56

otht•r teums receiving votes: Arkansas 81, other teams receiving votes: Boston College 46,
ND -Brown 3-72, Gelherall 3-32, Fisher 2-23, Givens 2-20, Shubzda 33•yd. FG
Washington 31, Boston College 30, Louisiana Tech NOTRE DAME 30, Stanford 26, Washington 14,
24-21
Holloway 2-18, Johnson 1-16, Howard 1-10, Jones 1-9
21. Minnesota 13, Arizona 7, Colorado 7, Utah 5, ND-:36 Colorado Slate 11, Colorado 8, Kentucky 8, NC State 8,
USNA -Williams 4-43, Rampani 2-18, O'Oonnetl 1-25 Johnson 1ti·Vd. pass
Kanlucky 3, Oregon 3, Western Michigan 3, Air Oklahoma 3, Utah 7, Arizona 5, Oregon 5, Syracuse 5,
from Jackl:on
Force 2, svracuse 2, Oregon State 1, Stanford 1 Miller kick, 28-24 Vanderbill 4, W. Michigan 4, Clemson 3, Maryland 2 

O
THE Notre Dame vs. Navy BSERVER Monday, November I, 1999 

Freshman Julius Jones finds a hole in the Navy defense and bursts up the middle for a short gain. Jones rushed for 146 yards, the most by a freshman tailback since 1975. 
Midshipmen set adrift 

JOB TURNERlThe Observer JEFF HSU(The Observer 
Defensive end Grant Irons brings down Navy quarterback Brian Madden for Notre Dame's-only sack ~ John Teasdale signals first dotvn after Bobby Brown's catch of the game. Irons had two tackles for losses. • on fourth-down with 1:20 remaining in the game. 


cene 
O
lHE Monday, November 1, 1999 BSERVER pagel3 
eine and pay the costs 
lishnwnts. Starbucks can Im found al Heckers, while gourmnt coffoes can bo found at Waddicks in O'Shaugh1wssy. At Crnrnl'inlds, lornted in the Hesburgh Cnnter l'or lnternaUonal Studios, f'rm,lily ground coffees. cappoccino and Hsprnsso drinks are fcat.unid daily. Alln1,;ro. on tho lowor level of LaFortune, the Common Stock Sandwich Co. in thn Business School and Irish Cafe, locatPd on the lower level of tlw Law School. also serve gourmet coffee and espresso drinks. 
Many stullnnts don't realize that cal'foine is a stimulant, anrl dl'1mndenr.1, on it r.an develop as Hasily as it can with any other drug. Hegular us11 o/' more than 350 mg of caf­foirrn a day has been provnn to cause physical dependence. lnLnrruption of Urn rngular usP produces a charactPristk withdrawal syndrnmo, tlrn most 11oticabln feature of which is an often srwfwe headache Lhat can bn rnli1wcd by taking caff1)i11e. 
J\hs!lnce of caffeine, l'urthermorn, makes regular users l'l\1d irritahln and tirnd. Reli111' from these withdrawal tl!Tocts is ol't11n given as a reason for continuing to consume caffoinn, J\ person who stops his or her caffeine intake suclclnnly may expBrience irritability, lrnadache and lethar­gy. Tlrnrel'ore, even people who ingest low ur moderate amounts of caffeine should tapr.r off their consumption oVl'r a pnriod of timP rather than abruptly stopping. 
Caffoirw tahn in bevnrage form bngins to reach all body tissues within live minutes. Peak blood levels are reached in about 30 minutes. :Vlany Notrn Dame students take advantage of' 1'.affoirn''s effects on slo1)p and brain activity. Consumption ol' the stimulant bnl'orn bedtime delays sleep onset, giving students an opportunity to study. 
But calTPine also shortens overall sleep time and rnduces tlw depth of sleep. After using caffnirrn, sleepers are more easily aroused, move more during sleep and report a rNluction in tlrn quality of sleep. Caffeine stimulates the brain and behavior, Use of 7:i to 150 mg elevates neural activity in many parts of the brain. postpones fatigue and pnlrnnccs performance al simplH intellectual tasks and at physical work that involve enduranc:1\ but not fine motor cnordination. 
"Though nxtensive doses of caffoinn will lead to a huge crash, I stand by the belief' that caffeine is a necessary part of collngn life. Whether it's a huge cup of coffee, a six-pack of Mountain Dew or a few No-Doz, caffeine provides the pm·fnct pick-me-up when faced with a paper deadline, a lale night ol' studying or one of the more boring classes on campus," said Crissy Manary, a sophomore and admitted caffeine-addict. "I don't deny that I have an addiction. Experiencing headaches, the shakes and depression during a withdrawal isn't fun, but honestlv. I need the caffeine and there are worse addictions to 0 have -smoking, for example. When professors stop assigning 40-page research papers to write, I'll switch to decaf. I promise." 
MARY CALASH/The Observer 

a caffeine boost. Almost every food tudents find Its stimulant effects to 
~ provides the perfect pick­ring classes on campus. " 
Witch Project 
satnP sct>mtrio as my brother had done !'or me. Aftnr half an hour, my l'ric1HI. a collegiall~ lacrosse athll'ln, ran upslairs and asked me to conw watch llrn rnst of tlrn movie with him. I Jauglwd al him, but hn wouldn't !nave without 11111, so I wm1t down and watched the second half again, I didn't !war abl1ut "Blair Witch" !'or about a month. 
Then the media gets wind of it ... 
At lirst. I was cxcitPd when I read lhn first t:OU­plP ol' n·viciws "Blair Witch" rccdv11d in n11tnr­tairrn11•11t 111agazi1ws and 1wwspap1ws. I was glad that it was gPttin!{ sonw att,•ntion. Bul tlwn I n·ad a !'cw mon· ;1rticl1\s. and liH'n a l<·w mon· artirlns. and llwn I saw a h\W dips, tlwn thn prn­vic-ws, and linally !ward by word ol' mouth that this was a n•ally scary 1110cku11rnntary. Ewrylm<ly knPw that it wasn't n1al. Th11 media had sla1cd in nvorv artido that it was a lir.tional movi1,. Wlwn I w1;11t tu sno it in thn tlwalrn on opP11i11g night, lh1•n' was a lin1• around tlw hlork, and 1·v1,ryorw was talking about the rumors they had hnard l'rom tlrnir frinnds. And wlwn I finally sat down to walcll tlrn movin, tlw ntrnosplwrn was so loud and ovcrcrowdml that nobody could sPriously b«i Sl'itrPd by anything onscrnon. Many JHmpln Will"(! disappointed, and some of the dis­appoi11Lnw11t r:an lm attributed to the modia. 
Wlwn the Irish film "Tlw Crying Gam1•" was rnl1:ascrl in 1992, the media didn't give away "thn littln secret" because it would detract from tlrn expnrience (I won't eitber). The reviews pro­tected the integrity of the lilm by only covering the basic plot and telling their rnaders to "go and see the film." Sn why didn't the media protect "Blair Witch's" integrity? Would it have been that hard to mention the horrifying experience and not mnntion that it was a mockumentary'? Tlrn mndia's hypn was a great disservice 
A new type of horror film 

Another mason moviegoers were disappointed was b,~cause they w1ire accustomod to a different typP of horror movi1i. J\ typo or horror movie like "A Nightman• on Elm Street," "llalloween" or the '90s blocklJLtstl\r (1quival1~nl, "Scream." Tlrnsn types of horror tilms are based on audi­(mce participation. Them is yPlling and scrnam­ing and unexpected twists. They show blood, killing, gratuitous S<!X and locker room shower scenes until tho protagonist is the only p,~rson fell standing in the "climactic" finish. But these horror lilms sold bncaus11 we didn't know bettnr than lo watch the same bad rcpntilious films. 
'"Blair Witch" has diangnd tlrn look or horror films. lnstnad of' thriving 011 quick <·uts and gorn, it thrives on long shots of darkrrnss and flourish­es 011 our psychological foars of reality. This is a monumentally original idea. It takes our normal fears and depicts them 011 the screen su we become terrified. It's simple, brilliant and terrify­ing, and lhose are the three words that best explain "The Hlair Witch Project." 
AP ENTERTAINMENT BRIEFS 

Pholo courtesy of Universal Pictures 

Universal Studios executives admit Angelina Jolie, pictured above, was not their first choice for the lead in "The Bone Collector." 
Jolie wasn't first choice for 'Collector' 
NEW YOHK 

The director and producer of" the serial-killer thriller "The Bone Collector," due out Friday, readily admit Universal Studios executives didn't want Angelina Jolin. 
The 24-year-old daughter ol' actor John Voight, known for ... her Barbie-doll figure, tattoos and knives, had quit acting and was attending film school. 
"They wanted an ·established' actrnss," director Phillip Noyce tells Entertainment Weekly in its Nov. 5 edition. 
ll took some heated arguments -witb Noyce and producer Martin Bregman both fighting for Jolie -and a serious slash to the film's budget to get Universal to agree, adds Bregman. 
Bregman says he faced similar problems getting then­unknown Michelle Pfeiffer into "Scarface." "Nobody knew wbo she was," he says. "Angie's enormously gifted, and I usually get what I want." 
Jolie, who appeared in the TNT miniseries "George Wallace" and the HBO film "Gia," plays a stuntwoman in "The Bone Collector" who tracks a serial killer for a quadriplegic cop, played by Denzel Washington. 
Reeve continues fight for research  
NEW YORK  
Actor Christopher Reeve may be paralyzed and in  a  wheel­ 
chair, but it doesn't stop him from getting under the skin of  - 
medical researchers.  
'Tm really quite  a  thorn in the side of scientists," Reeve  
says in  an  interview scheduled  to air Monday on  "Dateline  
NBC."  
"They're doing well," Reeve, 47, says of the researchers.  
"They really  are.  But  now  we  are  down lo the ugly part,  
unfortunately, whicb is patents, monny. Who gets the credit'?  
Who gets the Nobel Prize?  ...  That's contaminating the  
process.  
"A lot of them haven't seen  somebody sitting in  a  wheel­ ..  
chair on  a daily basis. They're in a  lab and they sec rats, and  
they see slides and test tubes, and they've got lo be reminded  
that there are people waiting."  
Heevc, paralyzed in a 1995 accident during a horse-jumping  
competition, says he's confirlent that scientists am getting  
closer to 11nding a cure to his condition.  

Dutch prince recovers, serves charities 
MILWAUKEE 

Prince Bernhard, the elderly father of Dutch Queen Beatrix, says he feels "lousy, really tiiusy" after surviving six opera­tions ovm the past year and a half. 
Th(' 88-year-old rrince, visiting this port city to unveil a statue of Beatrix's grandmotlrnr Qucnn Wilhelmina. did not elaborate, but his state1111111t I;riday was l"ront-page news in the royalty-ohsessrJd N<'therlands. 
Bernhard had surgery last month un his windpipe after hav­ing had a tube inserted earlier this year to assist his brnath­ing. Last year, his eyes were operatod on twice to repair a detached retina, he had treatment for an enlarged prostate, and scar tissue was removed from his bladder. 
Despite his health troubles, the prince, a former president of the World Wide Fund for Nature, has continued his work on various charitable causos. 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, November 1, 1999 
.• 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

Bichette moves to Reds in first offseason trade 


.... 
... 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Associated Press 

CINCINNATI 
Dante Bichette gets to play closer to home. The Cincinnati Reds get someone to replace Greg Vaughn. The Colorado Rockies can head in a new directton. 
The first major trade of the offseason appears to have made everyone happy. 
l\ieeding someone to bat cleanup now that Vaughn's a free agent, the Reds obtained Bichctte on Saturday for out­fielder Jeffrey Hammonds and right-handed reliever Stan Belinda. Cincinnati also got $1.9 million to make up the salary difference . 
"This was a very early deal in the offseason," Rockies gen­era I manager Dan o·oowd said. "It's just that this turned out to be the best deal at this point in time for Dante and for the Rockies." 
Bichette, who turns 36 on Nov. 18, was one of the origi­nal Rockies and a fan favorite in Colorado. As friends left the team in recent years and the Rockies lost games, Bichette found himself having less fun. 
He also found that he missed being with his wife and two children during spring training and the part of the season when his 7 -year-old son was in school. The Bichettes live in Orlando, Fla. 
Early in the season, Bichette told the Rockies that if' another team closer to home expressed an interest, he'd be willing to approve a trade. 
"Check out my numbers," Bichette said. "I was hitting .259 the day my little boys and wife showed up during the sea­son. When they left to go back home for him to go to school, I was hitting .304. I ended up hitting .298. 
"I read into those numbers that I'm not quite the player I am with my family a thousand miles away. It plays on me. It was probably the deciding fac­tor." 
Cincinnati is only a two-hour flight from Orlando and the Reds hold spring training in Sarasota. f<la. They also satis­fied Bichette's desire to play on a winner -they barely missed out on the playoffs last season. 
Knowing they probably wouldn't be able to afford to keep Vaughn, the Reds began talking to the Hockies about Bichette during the season. Vaughn led the club with 45 homers and 118 llBls, hut filed for free agency last Thursday. 
Vaughn and his agent told the Reds they wanted at least a four-year deal for $10 million to $12 million a year, way out of Cincinnati's price range, general manager Jim Bowden said. 
When the Rockies finally agreed to include $1.9 million in the trade to make up for the difference in the salaries involved, the Reds figured they'd gotten. someone who could replace Vaughn. 
Bichette hi.t 34 homers and drove in 133 runs last season, when he barely missed hitting .300 for the seventh consecu­tive season. He makes $6.5 million each of the next two years. 
"This guy's a hitting machine," Bowden said. "He's a very special man with the bat. Whether at Coors Field or away, this man can produce." 
Bichette is a career .345 hit­ter in Cincinnati with nine homers and 32 RBIs. He'll get to find out just how much play­ing at Coors Field inflated his numbers. 
"Jt might knock down some of the numbers," he said. 'Tm not really a home run guy. Twenty-five to 30 is my kind of year. Run production is where I think I can really help." 
In the past three months. the Rockies have had general manager Bob Gebhard resign and manager Jim Leyland retire on their way to a 72-90 mark that was the second­worst in franchise history. 
The trade starts a remake of' the team. 
"Our vision for this team is a more athletic, more versatile group of contributors," O'Duwd said. "This is our first step in that direction. It also gives us important payroll flexibility." 
Hammonds, 28, hit .279 with 17 homers and 41 HBis in 123 games last season as a backup outfielder. He'll mako $3.1 mil­lion next year, the last on his contract. 
llis best game came at Coors Field on May 19, when he hit three homers in the Reds' 24­12 win. 
'Tm looking at it as another chance to help get a team going," HammQnds said. "It's a chance to do may part to get this team jump-started again." 
Belinda, 33, was a setup man in 1998 before he was diag­nosed with multiple sclerosis. Biceps tendinitis set him back this season, when he went 3-1 with a 5.27 ERA. He'll make $1.5 million next year, also his last year under contract. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
SPECIAL  Loving ND-SMC couple wishes to adopt.Will provide a lifetime of laughte~,love,devotion and opportu­ THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds.  FOR SALE.  WANTED: 4 Tenn. Tix 312-951-5008  Hi to Stella. Allie, Mary, Laura, Cynthia, and Jeanine!  
nities.  5 Rooms with pri~ate baths, $80­ EL TON  JOHN TICKETS  Do ­ a deer. a female deer  
- THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center PHONE 631-COPY www.CopyShopND.com  800-484-4699 code 0019 To our 4am inquirer: all info kept in total confidence.Please call back anytime.Our prayers are with you.  $115, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road Exi1#107, 1­800-418-9487. HOUSES HOUSES HOUSES  Spring Break Specials!Bahamas Party Cruise 5 Days $279! Includes Meals! Awesome Beaches,Nightlife!Cancun & Jamaica 7 Nights From $399!  272-7233 GOOD SEATS ...... PERSONAL  Fluffy the 395 squirrel says hi to everybody in 395. Those are some drunk clowns.  
Store Hours Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm  EASY MONEY Looking for BABYSITTER for twin lirst graders. Every Monday and Tuesday, 3-5:15 pm. Must have  DOMUS PROPERTIES HAVE AVAILABLE 5,6,7,8 & 10-BDRM HOUSES FOR THE  Florida $129!springbreaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386  Quality Copies, Quickly! We're open early, late, & weekends.  KB-well done on !he milkshake. SHOUT OUTS!!!!!!!!!!!\!!!! Knott Hall Football  
Sat: Noon-6:00pm Sun: Noon-Midnight  car. Call 273-3083  '00-01 SCHOOL YEAR.ONLY 15 LEFT. CALL 274-1501 OR 234-2436. ASK FOR KRAMER FOR SHOWING.  FOR SALE N.D. FOOTBALL TIX CALL 271-9412  THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY  Yeah baby, Mario lightin' it up, d­fense whoopin' ace, running virtu­osity, oline rockin' da hiz-naus.  
LOST & FOUND Lost earring, silver and amathyst, sentimental value. Oct. 13 between DeBartolo, stadium parking lot, and Decio, 233-8672  Free One Bedroom Apartment near Campus A family with three children seeks lun,energetic student or graduate to live in charming apartment for FREE in exchange for mutually  STUDENTS WANTED! Alum. owned 2 sty. 5bdrm 2bath new car­pet. kit. appl , security, fumace, roof. Huge yd., 1 blk. N. of club 23. $1125/ inc. utilities. -also 4/5 bdrm  FOR SALE N.O. FOOTBALL TIX CALL 271-9412 Phone Cards 669min. $20 243-9361 or 258-4805  Quality Copies, Quickly! Spring Break 2000 Free Trips & Meals. Jamaica,Cancun.Bahamas.Barbad os,Florida,Padre.Book now for Free  SHOUT OUTS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Chaos Football What can I say ... Brigid is Dan Hampton, 0-line dominates, sec­ondary is tight on coverage, Mandy gotta gun, and Orsi smells funny. Lee  
agreeable babysitting responsibili• ties.Fax name.phone# and brief  2 blks from campus $800. for more info call 289-4365.  TICKETS  Meals & 2 Free Trips.Book before Dec 17 for LOWER PRICES!!  Steve Lou  ROCK!!!  
WANTED  note describing experience and interests to Walker at 233-2308.  WANTED NOTRE DAME FOOT­BALL TICKETS  1800-426-7710 www.sunsplashtours.com  Crazy Pat  
Now hiring for evenings and weekends. MOLLY MCGUIRE'S COFFEE HOUSE 287-6966 Karen  Roseland Animal Hospital is now hiring pan-lime Ward Assistants tor evening & weekends If interested, please send resume & handwritten letter to: Roseland Animal Hospital, 424 Dixieway N. So.Bend, IN  WALK TO SCHOOL http://mmmrentals.homepage.com 232-2595 or mmm.rentals@aol.com  271-1526 SELL & BUY GA FOOTBALL TICK­ETS 277-6619 FOR SALE  Funky GOURDS Three for a dollar!' Fun imaginative shapes .......  Booya! I'm doing the moose dance, Dave. You see that, Dave? I'm doing the moose dance 'cause you're WRONG!!!  
•••ACT NOW!CALL FOR THE  46637.  Two roommates/ hot chicks wanted tor 8 bedroom house next year. Call  Navy& BCtix Best Prices  So, did Copes· costume complete its intended purpose after I left?  
BEST SPRING BREAK PRICESISOUTH PADRE.CAN­CUN ,JAMAi CA,BAHAMAS,ACA­PlllCO,FLORIDA & MARDI GRAS.REPS NEEDED ... TRAVEL FREE.EARN $$$.DISCOUNTS FOR 6+. 800-838-8203 WWWLEISURETOURS.COM  FOR RENT ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE HOMEFOR ND-SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 243-0658.  4511 for info. Dorks welcome!! Sublessor needed tor Spring 2000. 2 Bdrm Apt ONLY $450/mnth!! Must Lease' Call 247-1731  AM -232-2378 PM -288-2726 ElTON JOHN tix for sale. AM -232-2378 PM -288-2726 FOR SALE N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS CALL271-9412  STUDENT WORK Vector Marketing Corp. is now filling pit cust. sales & service positions. Flex. around class. Transfers avail. over breaks. $10.55 base-appt. Good resume exp. scholarships awarded, cond. apply. call mon-wed 12:30-5:30pm 282-2357  Yes, Bob and Jim, I did get all those pool tricks to work! This is another shout out to every­one in Siegfried 4B Because Fluffy is cool. Fluffy could be a Thomist. like someone's moth­er. Go Team 395!  




Monday, November I, 1999 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 

Associated Press 
FONTANA, Calif. 
A stirring race and fight for the CART championship were quickly forgotten amid tears Sunday when race winner Adrian Fernandez and new series champion Juan Montoya were told that fellow driver Greg Moore was dead. 
Moore, a 24-year-old Canadian and one of the bud­din g stars of the Champ Car series, died from massive head and internal injuries after his car went off the track at more than 220 mph and slammed into a concrete retaining wall. 
The accident during the Marlboro 500 occurred during a 

-
restart on the 10th lap of the 250-lap event on the two-mile California Speedway oval. 
Moore lost control of his car coming off turn two. It skidded onto the infield grass, crashed hard into a retaining wall and broke into pieces, with the open-cockpit driver's compart­ment spinning and hitting the ground several times before coming to a halt. 
The race continued as the unconscious Moore was removed from the remains of his Reynard-Mercedes and air­lifted by helicopter to Loma Linda Medical Center. 
Moore, a five-time winner in the CART FedEx Series, was pronounced dead at the hospital at 1:21 p.m. PST. 
Most of the drivers were not made aware of the death until after the race. 
Andrew Craig, president and CEO of CART, said, "We thought the appropriate thing was to continue with the race but to cancel all the usual things that 

, 
HAIR MODELS NEEDED 
For Monday's Training Program by Licensed Professionals. Call for Information. 289-5080 

-
THE WOMEN'S RESOURCE CENTER 

'/lwu/, q.lo,,,,, .l!t;.~ 
'W~,.N~a 
1-7 ,,..... 
Refreshments will be served. Freet-shirts and mugs. Check out our numerous informational resources. 
"I myself have never been able to find out precisely what feminism is: I only know that people call me a feminist whenever I express sentiments that differentiate me from a doormat ...• -Rebecca West 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, November 1, 1999 
AUTO RACING 

Moore's death casts dark shadow over Marlboro 500 
Unser beat his son, Al Unser Jr., several hundred Colombians man, while the sensational by one point. waved flags and celebrated the rookie hugged team owner Chip In the stands after the race, championship of their country-Ganassi. 

DON'T MISS OUT ON A FRENCH OR SPANISH CLASS IN SPRING 2000! 
Registration begins TODAY for French and Spanish placement exams. Call 1-6887 and follow the recorded instructions. You MUST register in advance, so be sure to call before 5 p.m. on Friday, November 5th. Questions? Contact the Department of Romance Languages at 1-6886 or stop by the department office, 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 

What role do you want to play in the revolution? 

Come by and see us when we visit your campus: 
DATE 
11-3-99 
PLACE 
The Morris Inn Notre Dame Room 
TIME 
6:00 pm 
TYPE OF EVENT 
Info Night 
www.ibm.com/whywork 
-----i
-.. ----­
-__,_ 

---·-· 

take place after the event." 
When word of Moore's death was received at the track, CART chief steward Wally Dallcnbach ordered the flags in front of the pit lane lowered to half staff and told the teams there would be no post-race celebration. lnstead, a brief prayer service was held. 
Fernandez, whose first of five CAHT victories came in July 1996 in Toronto in a race in which driver Jeff Krosnoff was killed, gambled on making it to the 1md on a waning fuel load and made it, beating runner-up Max Papis to the finish line by 7.634 seconds. 
The Mexican driver pumped his fists as he circled the track slowly on his victory lap. But, after gHtting out of his Reynard­Ford and being told of Moore's death, Fernandez broke into tears. 
He went into seclusion briefly and later, barely able to speak through tears. said haltingly, "It's so hard. Greg was such a good friend of ours. We've been racing for a while and shared so many good moments on and off the track. 
"This is a tragedy for all of us. the win doesn't matter anything. My heart goes out to his family." 
Montoya finished fourth and Dario Franchitti, who came into the season-ending race leading the championship battle by nine points, finished 10th after losing two laps because of a tire prob­lem during a pit stop. 
The two wound up tied at 212 points, giving Montoya the championship on the basis of most wins. The 24-year-old rookie won seven times, while Franchitti, 26, won three races. 
The previous closest champi­onship was in 1985 when Al 


..-------------------------------------. --. -----­
Monday, Novc:mber I, 1999 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
I 

• I 
I I 
MILLENNIAL SERIES 
DEPARTMENT OF THEOLOGY 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
PRESIDER AND HOMILIST, MASS FOR ALL SAINTS DAY 
PUBLIC LECTURE: 
"MESSAGE OF THE GOSPEL TO A RELIGIOUSLY PLURALISTIC WORLD AT THE THRESHOLD OF THE THIRD MILLENNIUM." 
RECEPTION TO FOLLOW 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 1 
5PM BASILICA OF THE SACRED HEART 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 2 
8PM MCKENNA HALL AUDITORIUM 

ALL EVENTS ARE OPEN TO THE PUBLIC THIS EVENT MADE POSSIBLE BY A GRANT FROM THE HENKELS LECTURE SERIES. 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, November 1, 1999 
VOLLEYBALL 

Belles take third in MIAA play 
The Belles took an eighth Saint Mary's won the first gameBy KATIE McVOY 
place finish out of 12 teams this 15-8, but lost the second game SPorts Wricer 
weekend at tho Calvin with the close score of 17 -15. 
Tournament. Saint Mary's The Belles won the third game 
The Saint Mary's volleyball defeated Aquinas College 3-0 in 17-15, but lost the last two team finished its season with a the opening match. The team games 15-8 and 15-10. third-place ranking in the MIAA swept Aquinas in three games. "This is definitely a tough Conference. Saint Mary's 15-11, 15-6and 15-11. tournament," Coach Randa defeated Defiance College on Saint Mary's lost the other Shields said. "At times we Wednesday and took an eighth three games it played during lacked communication, but place finish at the Calvin the tournament, however. The overall we played well. Things Tournament this weekend. team dropped its next match to just didn't rule in our favor." 
Suzanne Martin led Saint Mt. St. Joseph 3-0. Mt. St. Martin and Jaime Dineen set Mary's to a victory over MIM Joseph defeated Saint MaryOs up the Belles shots with 114 member Defiance College. 15-7, 15-3 and 15-5. and 32 assists respectively. Martin had 26 assists and 2 Wittenberg also defoated Nihill and Agnes Bill added to aces for the game. Joining Saint Mary's. The Belles lost the offense with a total of 99 Martin on offense were Emily the first game of the match 15-kills for the tournament. Nihill with 17 kills and Agnes 7. They won the next two Meyers and Ozbolt both had 5 Bill with 14 kills. Jayne Ozbolt games 15-6 and 15-8. aces. Nihill led the defense with and Jolie LeBeau assisted on Wittenberg came back to win 65 digs. Bill had 59 digs, defense with 6 and 5 blocks the last two games 15-8 and LoBeau had 18 blocks and respectively. Angie Meyers had 15-6. Ozbolt had 12 blocks. 18 digs and Ann Bill had 15 Saint Mary's dropped the The Belles begin play in the digs. final match to Wheaton 3-2. MIM tournament this Tuesday. 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 

Spurrier reaches milestone 
weeks will send Florida back to "In the second half, it was 
Associated Press 

the SEC title game for the first like, 'The rings are on the time since 1996. table,"' Brown said. "It was justJACKSONVILLE, Fla. 
"I'm not big on individual up to us. We knew if they didn't Florida couldn't muster a sin­
things," said Spurrier, who score, they couldn't win. And
gle passing yard in the second improved to 9-1 against the they couldn't score. We were onhalf. Normally, that's a time for Bulldogs as Florida's coach. "It our heals and the game is all

Steve Spurrier's visor to start 

puts us in a position to get to the about making big plays." 
flying and his backup quarter­SEC game. We have a chance While the defense was €Omingback to enter the game. 

for another championship. up big, the offense was strug­
Instead, Spurrier was oddly at That's the important thing." gling for every yard. 

ease. 

Unlike previous years in Doug Johnson was held to just
Thanks to a defense that 

Florida's decade of SEC domi­two completions in the second
wouldn't bend, the complete 

nance, the Gators seemed more half, one for 10 yards, the other 
lack of a passing game was 

adept at playing championship­for minus-10. All week. Spurrier nothing more than a statistical style defense than the Fun 'N said he would have no com­oddity Saturday. Spurrier left Gun offense that staked them to punction benching Johnson forthe field on his players' shoul­so many successes. backup Jesse Palmer. But with aders following one of the most With the rain falling and the wet ball, a soaked field and asignificant victories of his coach­offenses stalling at "The World's Georgia defense that seemed as
ing career, a 30-14 triumph 

Largest Outdoor Cocktail Party," unwilling to budge as Florida's,over No. 14 Georgia. 
defensive lineman Alex Brown Spurrier knew it was not hisHe became the first coach this had 2 1/2 sacks to go with a quarterback's fault.
century to win 100 games in his forced fumble and interception "Doug played very well in thefirst 10 years at a school. More that sealed the victory for the first half," Spurrier said. "Theimportantly, the victory put the Gators. second half, it was not only him. 

No. 5 Gators (7-1, 5-1 

Before Brown's heroics, Keith He threw one or two bad halls,
Southeastern Conference) in 

Kelsey forced a Georgia fumble but at no point were we think­command of the SEC East. 
deep in Florida territory with ing we needed to make a
Wins over Vanderbilt and 

the Bulldogs trailing 16-14. change."
South Carolina in the next two 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Cubs hire Baylor for coaching position 
Associated Press the Chicago Tribune. "That's at 
team recognized all over the 
The Chicago Cubs linally won world. You don't get that oppor­at something, beating out the tunity too many times. I was competition to hire Don Baylor to looking for a team that can make manage their team. a difference, a team a town can 
Baylor, tho hitting coach of the rally around." Atlanta Braves last season after It also was reported by The six years as manager or the Atlanta Journal-Constitution, Colorado Rockies. had been which reported in its Sunday edi­courted by several major league tions that Baylor had agreed to a teams, including the Anaheim four-year deal averaging $1.3 Angels and Milwaukee Brewers. million. 
While the Cubs declined to Baylor preferred top stay in 
comment Sunday, his hiring was the National League, where he confirmed to The Associated managed the Rockies to the play­Press by a senior major league offs in 1995. team oflicial who spoke on the "I've been in the league now condition he not be identified. for six years as a manager and 
Baylor ,.,_.m take over an injury­as a coach," Baylor was quot<~d plagued team that went from the as saying by the Journal­playoffs to last place. Constitution. "I know the league 
''It's Wrigley Field, it's the fans, now. In the American League, I it's the opportunity to manage don't know as much, watching the Chicago Cubs," Baylor told the slugfests over there." 
OLYMPICS 

CoIDlllittee refor01s win over Kissinger 
tions if significant changes
Associated Press 
aren't adopted in December. IOC •president JuanLAUSANNE, Switzerland 

Antonio Samaranch is to

Henry Kissinger is con­
appear before a House panel

vinced the International 
Oec. 15 to testify about

Olympic Committee is on 
the reforms.

embracing reforms that 
U.S. Olympic Committee

should restore its reputation president Bill Hybl, who also
and silence critics in 
served as an outside mem­Washington. 
ber of the IOC 2000 panel,

The former Secretary of 
said the reforms are signifi­

State played a significant cant and the IOC has gone
role in the final meeting of further than expected.
the IOC 2000 reform panel, The reforms will be put to
which endorsed nearly 50 
an IOC vote in Lausanne on

recommendations for Dec. 11-12. Measures
reshaping the organization 
requiring change in the

in the wake of the Olympic Olympic Charter will need acorruption scandal. 
two-thirds majority of the

Among the key proposals 100-plus members for pas­
adopted Saturday: eight­sage; others will need a
year terms of office and re­majority.
election for IOC members. 
The meeting will come a

election of 15 athletes to the year after the scandal broke
committee, new rules for over the gifts, cash andfinancial disclosure and a 
other inducements offered topossible ban on visits to bid 

lOC members during Salt
cities. 
Lake City's winning bid forThe hard part will he get­the 2002 Winter Games.

ting the reforms passed by Since then, the IOC hasthe full IOC general assem­purged ten members impli­bly and winning over skep­
cated in the affair, set up antics in Congress. Kissinger. 

ethics commission, openedone of 38 outside delegates 

its sessions to the media,on the 82-member reform 

offered to be governed by anpanel, said the IOC ought to 

international anti-bribery
succeed. 
treaty and drawn up a slate

"I think more has been 
of sweeping reforms.

achieved than many of those 
Under one recommenda­l consulted thought possi­

tion endorsed Saturday,
ble," he said. 
prospective bid cities will be

He said he will consult required to meet certainwith former Sen. George 
standards before being

Mitchell, Ken Duberstein 
accepted as a candidate.

and other members of the 
But the crucial question ofUSOC-appointed panel that 

whether IOC members will

made recommendations last be allowed to visit bid cities
March for overhauling the 
remains unresolved. A pro­
IOC. 
posal for a blanket ban on

"If Duberstein and Mitchell visits failed to win approval
and I support [the IOC 
of the reform panel, whichreforms], which would cer­

was split on the issue.

tainly be my inclination. I Kissinger offered a com­think the Congress will go promise that would allow
along," Kissinger said. 
some visits. Members would

The IOC has come under 
travel as a group for a speci­

fire at three separate hear­fied time at IOC expense,ings in Congress this year. 
with no lavish hospitality orLast month, House lawmak­gifts.

ers expressed skepticism The panel agreed to sub­
about the reform efforts and 
mit two proposals to the

threatened to impose sane-
December session. 

BUAD 349: International May 23 -June 14, 2000 
INFORMATIONAL MEEIING tor Saini Marv's and Noire Dame students 
November 3.1999 Room 233 Madeleva Ball 4:00p.m. 
Contact Susan Vance 
219/284-4501
svance@salntmarvs.edu 
The Depanmen1 or Business Administration and Economics 
Monday, November I, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
NFL 
Browns finally achieve victory 
Asscx;iatcd Press 
Tho Clnveland Browns finally won and thn St. Louis Rams linally lost. 
Tfw I\Xpttnsion Browns got thnir first win in spectacular fashion Sunday, lrnaling the NPw Orl1•ans Saints 21-16 on Tim Couch's desperation, 5(1­yard touchdown pass t() Kevin .Juhnson 011 the final play in tlw Sup!\rrlome. 
"I couldn't havn thrown it anottwr yard," Couch said. "I put ,wnrything I could into it and thrnw it as high as I could. It's a rwal way lo gnt your lirst 
0111:." 
Whiln tlw Browns bncame the last NF!. team lo gel a win this ~mason, th1\ Harns lrncame the last team to g11t a loss. 
At Nashville, 'f'pn11.. Stev11 McNair rnturrrnd after a six­WCl\k absence following back surgnry and hid Urn Tennessee Titans ovPr St. Louis, 24-21. 
The Titans { ()-1) outscorcd tlw Hams ( (1-1l 21-0 in the first 14 minutes. morn points than St. l.ouis had given up in any ganw this smtson. 
"We wantnd lo S(~e how limy would react being down," Tennessee safety Blaine Bishop said. "They hadn't been down all year. blowing every­body out. They came back, but we did enough lo win." 
St. Louis, the NFL's last unbeaten team, fell behind 21­0 before rallying against the Titans. Kurt Warner threw thrne TD passes in the second half, including a 15-yarder to Amp L1ie with 2:14 left that cut Tennessee's lead to 24-21. 
Lorenzo Styles of the Rams rncovernd the onside kick, and Warner then drove the Rams to the Tennessee 19. Jeff Wilkins tried a 38-yard field goal. bul his kick was wide right with 7 seconds left. 
At New Orleans, the Browns ( 1-7) got a chance Lo win after the Sa.ints (1-6) mismanaged the r.lock in the final minute. New Orleans called a timeout rather than let tlw cluck run down before Doug Brien kicked a 46-yard field goal 
with 21  soconds lcrt to  put  
New Orhmns up 16-14.  
Couch  then  drove  the  

Browns 75 yards in three plays, hitting Johnson in the corner or the end zone despite a swarm uf Saints defenders arnund him. 
Bills 13, Ravens 10 
At Ballimore. Doug Flutie thrnw a 5-yard TIJ pass to Jonathan Linton with "I :35 lcft as lluffalo (:i·3) rallied to hand the Hav,rns (2-5) their third straight loss. 
Flutie threw Lhree intercep­tions in the lirst three quarters to help Baltimore build a 10-3 lead. But Havens quarterback Tony Banks committed two costly turnovers in the final 13 minutes, both of which led to scores that enabled the Bills to snap a two-game skid. 
Falcons 27, Panthers 20 
Tim Dwight caught a pair of TD passes from Chris Chandler as Atlanta won at home for the first time this season. 
The Falcons (2-6) twice built 14-point leads before Carolina's Steve Beuerlein scored on a 1-yard sneak with 
3:06 remaining. The Panthers (2-5) got the ball back at their own 29 with 15 seconds left, but Gerald McBurrows came up with his team's third inter­ception against Beuerlein to clinch the victory. 

Redskins 48, Bears 22 
At Landover, Md... 313-pound lineman Dan Wilkinson scored on an 88-yard interception return. and Stephen Davis rushed tor 143 yards and two scores as Washington (5-2) beat Chicago (3-5). 
Brad Johnson threw two TD passes for the Redskins, who 1ml 45-0 in the third quarter. 
Jaguars 41, Bengals 10 
Fred Taylor, returning after missing four weeks with a hamstring injury. rushed for ·1 26 yards in the first half as Jacksonville (6-1) handed Cincinnati (l-7) one of its worst losses ever. 
Trailing 41-3 with six sec­onds left at Cincinnati, the Bengals called timeout, and Jeff Blake threw a 15-yard touchdown pass on the final play to avoid the worst loss in team history. 
Giants 23, Eagles 17, OT 
At Philadelphia, Michael Strahan scon:d on a 44-yard intercef)Lion return in overtime lo lift the New York Giants (5­3Jover the Eagles (2-6). 
New York's Christian Peter tipped Doug Pederson's pass on third-and-8 in overtime. Strahan caught it and r'an untouched to the end zone as the Giants extended their win­ning streak to three games. 
Chiefs 34, Chargers 0 
At Kansas City, Reggie Tongue returned a fumble 7 yards for a touchdown as the Chiefs (5-2) handed San Diego (4-3) its first regular-season shutout loss since 1992. 
The victory gave Kansas City sole possession of first place in the AFC West. 
The Nanovic Institute for European Studies 
presents two lectures by 
William Pfaff 
Paris, France 

Monday, November 1 4:30pm 129 DeBartolo Hall 

"Globalization, Nationalism and the Nation State" 
I 
: I 
I 
i 
Wednesday, November 3 
l 

:I 7pm Hesburgh Library Auditorium ! I I "European.American Relations in the Post Cold War Era" 
I 
I 
I I 

:I William Pfaff, the internationally renowned journalist, is the author 
I 

I or coauthor of six books, including the Wrath of Nations: Civilization 
! 

: and the Furies of Nationalism and Barbarian Sentiments. Barbarian 
I 

t Sentiments, was a National Book A ward nominee in 1989 and won the
ICity of Geneva's prestigious Prix Jean•Jacques Rousseau. He writes ia political column for The International Herald Tribune in Paris, 1where he lives, which is syndicated by the Los Angeles Times. His j "Reflections" on politics and history frequently appeared in The New ! Yorker between 1971 and 1992. 
I 
~-I 

PGA 
Woods on pace to win third tourney 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON 

With flags flying high and spirits raised by a moving memorial to Payne Stewart. the Tour Championship tried to return to normal on Saturday. Tiger Woods cer­tainly did his part. 
Woods showed no effects from a stinger he suffered hitting a rock, finishing off a round of 66 in a series of rainstorms and adding a 4­under 67 in the cool, blustery afternoon to take a three­stroke lead at Champions Golf Club. 
Woods was at 13-under 200 and in great position to win his third straight tourna­ment and seventh in his last 10 starts. He has won the last 10 times after having at least a share of the lead after 54 holes. 
Chris Perry made four birdies to complete a 64, and had a 69 in the afternoon to finish al 203. Brent Geiberger was another stroke back after a 68. 
Davis Love III, tied with Woods at 9 under when the second round was completed, had a 73 in the afternoon and was in the group at 203 that included defending champion Hal Sutton. 
Because the PGA Tour can­celed play Friday so players could attend the memorial service for Stewart in Orlando, Fla., 27 holes were played Thursday and Saturday, setting up a regu­lar 18-hole final on Sunday. 
Remembrances of Stewart, one of six people killed in a freak plane crash on Monday, were still evident. Several players wore bracelets that said "WWJD" -What Would Jesus Do -which were handed out during the memorial service Friday. 
Stewart wore the bracelet when he won the U.S. Open in June. 
"Before the memorial ser­vice, everything was up in the air," said Phil Mickelson, who finished second to Stewart in the U.S. Open. "Now, we're at a point where we can deal with it. The word you often use is closure. Today was the first day to try to move on. and to deal with it as best as possible." 
Flags that had been at half­staff all week returned to their regular hejght, and most players felt more at ease having seen the strength of Tracey Stewart, who gave a moving tribute to her 42­year-old husband. 
"I came to an understand­ing, a resolve," Woods said. "Seeing Tracey speak from the heart...that was incredi­ble. To end it the way she did -'Let the party begin in hnaven' -that said it all." 
Woods' play also spoke vol­umes -with a stiff nock, no less. 
Woods pinched a nerve when he tried to hit through a baseball-sized rock late in the day on Thursday. Physical therapists said he would foe! stiffness through the weekend, bul Woods already was feeling bfltter. He arrived an hour before his 
-
tee time and headed toward the trailer -but only to tell the therapists h<l wouldn't be needing their services. 
"I'm not hardheaded," Woods said with a smile. "Just stubborn." 
lfo's good, too. 

Woods made eight birdies in 27 holes, no small feat considering the myriad of conditions that awaited. It was hot and humid, and then the rain poured on three occasions during the first nine holes. 
After more sunshine and showers, a cold front blew through when Woods and Love made the turn and it felt more like the British Open. 
The cool weather at the end of the day made Woods' neck stiffen slightly, but he still had a full range of motion -and he still has command of the Tour Championship. 
Just when it appears he can't get any better, he showed Saturday that there may be no limit to what he can achieve. 
The last player to win three straight tournaments was David Duval at the end of 1997. 
But Woods' dominance runs much deeper than that. Since returning from his post-Masters break, he has finished lower than seventh only once in 10 tournaments. A victory Sunday would be his seventh on the PGA Tour this year, the most since Johnny Miller won eight times in 1974, and push Woods' season earnings to over $5.6 million. 
And there's still one tour­nament left, the World Golf Championship event in Spain. 
Still, Woods' thoughts were not totally beyond the memo­ry of Stewart. 
"Winning would be a nice thing," he said, "but I don't think I'll feel quite as high." 
Interested in writing tor the Sports Department? Call 1-4543. 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, November 1, 1999 


-W.Soccer 
continued from page 24 
83rd minute off a corner kick. All-American defender Jen Grubb curved her shot from lhe flag over the head of Davis for her ninth goal of the year. Grubb, the Big East presoason defender of the year, leads all Irish back line players in goals with nine. 
Grubb left the game in the 15th minute with an injury but returned in the 55th and played the rest of the game. 
Heft closed out the scoring less than one minute later to extend her Notre Dame career record for goals to 76. Heft took a pass from Streiffer on the left wing and ra11 into the box. She scored from 12 yards away to put the game out of reach with a three goal lead and less than seven minutes to play. 
Streiffer's assist was the 68th of her career and moved her into second place on lhe Irish all-time assist list -trailing onlv Hollv Manthei's NCAA rec~rd 128assists. 
Junior All-American Anne Makinen saw her Irish record 12-game point streak come lo an end, as she-faile-d to pick up a point for just the second game in which she participated in 1999. The last time Makinen was held. was held without a point was against Duke on Sept. 5. 
The win over the Hoosiers closed out the Irish regular season. Next up for the Irish is the Big East Quarterfinals against the Miami Hurricanes on Alumni Field Tuesdav at 
7:30 p.m. " 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DA1\1E 
INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS 

FREMANTLE, AUSTRALIA "The Land Down Under" 
INFORMATION MEETING With Julliet Mayinja, Assistant Director Fr. Wilson Misc.amble, C.S.C. Prof. John Halloran Prof. Clive Neal 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 2. 1999 l 02 DeBartolo 4:45-5:45 p.M, 
APPLICATION DEADLINE· DECEMBER 1, 1999 
Irish 

continued from page 24 
to fall back on the strength of their victory at the Big East Championships and sixth-placo finish at the Pre-Nationals meet to secure an at-large bid. 
Notre Dame's women's cross country team placed fifth of 13 teams in the conferencB, total­ing 98 points. Ahead of the Irish were Georgetown. Providence, Villanova and Boston College, capturing first through fourth places, respPc­tively. 
"We actually had some pretty good performances," said women's head coach Tim Connelly. "We just didn't run hard enough to finish as wBII as we had hoped." 
All four of the teams that beat the Irish ran particularly strong races, according to Connelly. Providence and Boston College ran better than they had all year. 
"We told them before the race that we were going to have to take some chances," Connellv said. 
Senio·r Alison Klemmcr led the Irish in Friday's Big Hast meet, She ran a time of 17:39 in the. SK meet to finish fourth overall and snag All-Big East honors. 

Next to cross the finish line for the Irish was freshman Jennifer Handley, who earned All-Rig East honors with her 12th-place finish. 
"I think that our team per­formed really well," said Handley. "I know we didn't achieve some of the things we wanted to, but we ran the best that we rould," 
Seniors Patty Rice and Erin Luby, junior Chrissy Kuenster, senior Valerio Siqueria and freshman Kari Eaton were the next five runners for Notre Dame. The Irish were without top runner JoAnna Deeter, who is a senior All-American. She has not run since spraining her ankle earlier this month. 
"Placing fifth doesn't help us at all to get an at-large bid," said Klemmer. "But I think we're capable of getting second at districts." 


GOT A WORD FOR OUR TASTY NEW CHICKEN CLUB SANDWICH' 
CRAVEABLE. 
(Ir's NOT A REAL WORD, BUT WE LIKE I TI ) 

THE TASTY CHICKEN CLUB IS HERE TO STAY, 
One bite of the delicious Chicken Gitt;, and you'll always crave the flavor of I1s all-wl1ite-meat chicken topped with crispy bacon, fresh lettuce and tomato and mayonnaise. And that's no problem, because now this unra-satislying sandwich is here to stay at BURGER KING~ So come on in and indulge your craving. 


The tuldle -LI!fortune Student Center 
IT JUST TASTES BFTTER~ 
www burgerk1ng com

PARTICIPATION MAY VARY 
Monday, November l, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Irish season hinges on one game after loss to Hoyas 

By KERRY SMITH Spom Writer 
It all comes down to one game. 
For the men's soccer team, the future of its entire season hinges on Wednesday's game against Seton Hall. 
The Irish had a chance to secure a spot in the posL<;eason Big East tournament on Friday when thoy squared off against conference rival Georgetown, hut the Hoyas were too tough and handed the Irish a 3-1 loss. 
With only one game remaining on the regular season schedule, the Irish are now facing a do-or-die situation: if they heat Pirates, the season continues. If they lose, the season is over. 
scorer for the I loyas, put a shot on the right side off the goal, lmt it was deflected on a diving save from Short. Hoya mid­fielder Mert lncekara then roccivcd tho ball on the loft side and booted in an easy shot on the opnn goal. 
The Irish brought the score to within one when midfielder Connor LaHosc blasted a shot from outside the box at the 
78:20 mark. Midfielder Matt Rosso set up the goal with a corner kick from the right side. Two Iloya defenders tried to clear the ball out of the box before LaHose picked it up and put the ball past Hoya goalkeeper Tyler Purtill to make the score 2-1. 
The Irish failed to tie the game, despite a handful of close shots. "We had chances to 
"The playoffs really score but we didn't finish
"We had a lot ofchances
start for us on 
anv of them." said Short. 

Wednesday," said Irish to score, but we didn't 
"We were giving our­captain and goalkeeper finish any ofthem." selves great opportuni­Gerick Short. "We need ties to tic the game but to win to keep playing. we just couldn't score."
Gerick Short 

We know what we have The Hoyas put the to do." Irish goalkeeper game away with less 
The loss tu Georgetown marks the fourth straight defeat suffered by the Irish squad. Georgetown stepped unto the lield ready to play, putting the ball past Short and the Irish defense less than two minutes in to the first half. 
Iloya defender Jeff Boehling headed the ball into the net from five yards out, off a corner kick from midfielder Kevin Shaw at the 1 minute 45 second mark. 
"Georgetown has a lot of really good athletes," said Short. "They were able to finish their chances and score against us. Our defense had a break clown." 
The score remained stuck at 1-0 until midway through the second half when the lloyas took advantage of an empty net to increase their lead. 
Midfielder Kenny Owens. the leading 
than five minutes remaining when midfielder Truls Engebretsen scornd from nine yards out on a shot to the left corner of the net. 
"The loss wasn't bccausfl of any one thing," said Short. "Connor LaHose fin­ished a great play to score for us. But when you push so many players up front at the end to try to score and tic the game, you end up giving a little bit on defense." 
Defense is the main concern for the Irish as they head into tlrn match with Seton Hall. 
"We're working on our defense in prac­tice," said Short. "We've given up a lot of goals in the past few games which isn't 
-

characteristic of our team. We have to get that hack on track for our game against Seton I !all." 

eqetabie
'Pilaf 
IS.
-'Rice­
.ult ,5Cflkll1JH!J 
121 

General Mills -­
Come and hear about career opportunities with our Promotion Marketing Group • 
Tuesday, November 2, 7:00 p.m. Room 112, CCE 
Come join the Company of Champions! 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, November 1, 1999 
,, 
HOCKEY 

Dusbabek goal fails to prevent stalemate with Miami 


Variety of Academic Disciplines Available 
Unique Rugby and Golf Programs combine Athletics, Academics and Travel 


• 

For more information visit 
http://www.study-australia.com 
Sl1UI lDY 
AUISTIR.AILIIA 1200 Wales Ave. *Birmingham, AL 35213 * (205) 540-4792 *e-mail StudyWA@aol.com 


Miami, allowing just three shots for the entire period. 
"Henning, Jurkowski, and Wroblewski got us going all night," said Irish head coach Dave Poulin. "Their entirgy picked everyone up, but it should have to be that way. We need consistenry, it wasn't there in the first period but was in the second.'' 
The Irish then took the lead in the third period on a power play goal by Joe Dusbabek. Tbe goal came just less than eight minutes assisted by defenseman Evan Nielsen and center Connor Dunlop. Nielsen made a great pass to set up the goal by flipping the puck across the front of the net as he was falling down. With the goal the Irish broke through on a power play that was pre­viously 0-for-4 on the game. 
"Our power play didn't click tonight like it did last [Thursday] night," said Poulin. "I have told our players to shoot the puck just to shoot, get something on the net rather than have everv shot be a great one like we ·had last night." 
Then Yliami scored the game-tying goal with less than seven minutes in regulation. After a scramble in front of the net, the loose puck slid under Zasowski and Redhawk for­ward Mike Glumac was credit­ed with the unassisted goal. The goal would not have even been ruled a shot if Zasowski was able to cover it, but some­how found away through the Irish goaltender. 
After the game, Irish head coach Dave Poulin was disap­pointed that the Irish came away without a victory. 
"Without a question we should have won. But we should have won even before it was 2-1, not when it was 2-2 or 2-1," Poulin said. "We should be pleased with three points this weekend against a good team, but we have way more talent than how we are playing right now." 

Monday, November 1, 1999 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
vJ[. 1-H.Ve. a.PV<>!i 'To RE 
A f-l.OI/IE, !:,b t..ET'5 Do 
liTAT • .So~E 
-rot. 
Fox TROT 
l CouLO DRoP A GRAOE. 
~ 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 37 The uA• in B.A. 65 Little tykes 
1 False god 38 "Yikes!" 66 Eye drops 5 Buddy 42 Malt kiln 67 Flippant 9 Atlanta-based 43 Iowa's state tree 68 "If all falls 
airline 
44 City near " 14 Pasture portion Dayton 
15 Tip-top 45 Rd. for a mall DOWN 16 Turn inside out carrier 1 Quite a party 
17 Flushing field 46 Prince Philip, to 2 Result of 18 Barbershop overexercise 
1 
Queen request 
Elizabeth 

3 Neck of the 19 Rope fiber 49 Calendar woods square
20 "Yikes!" 4 Shove off 50 Gobble up 
23 Nobelist Wiesel 5 Tabby's tempter 51 Like the driven 
24 Prohibition 6 Derby
snow

(1920-33) participants53 "Yikes!"
25 1900 7 Platoon or 60 Kindergarten squadron, e.g.
28 Society 
adhesive

crasher 8 Bulletin board 61 Without: Fr.
31 Menlo Park notice 
monogram 62 Brainstorm 9 Gila monster's 34 Out in front 63 Four duos home 36 Be sick 64 Out of the wind 10 "Don't Cry for 
Me, Argentina" musical ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 11 More or 
T A K E S A S I P A P R O N 12 Carhop's aid I D A L U P I N O B O O N E 13 Part of NATO: ROSE PET AL BUSES Abb~ 
21 Give the slip 22 Funnyman Milton 25 Business ~ Administration or English Lil, 
e.g. 26 Use crib notes 27 Former Attorney 
General Edwin 


.;,.;.i.~,+,;+.;,:+::,+,-.,.+,Te+:E:-1 29 Carpet C R E A K S C E R fasteners T E R P S T E E R S 30 Lungful 
MAN IT'S Too NICE OUT 1To BE CooPED· UP STvDY1NG "HAMLET.''  BUT I'VE ONLY GoT A SL1M "A-'' AVERAGE Go1N& 1111To TH1S TEST, IF I ScRliW VP AT ALL,  IQ 1999 8111 Ameod/01st tlV Un1~11rsal P16s~ Syndic.ate  TO '"8" oR NOT To "8," THAT IS 1\iE QUEST10N. \  

TOM KEELEY JEFF BEAM
A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD 

A-LWA't!. 61:-T l.OPED l 'LL 61VE. '(ov 
INC:, E\Jl!..R'<Tl½I\\k) \IJIH '(OU \<.~£.K Bll.c..lC. i\lJO OC> NO"THINc,) BUT tJbT IS Tll-'.E.. 1110 t'.Of:.E. 't'tl IC..E u\JY,'' tJ.." l'\1\JD IS .S 
0 'T"E\;tE I!;. No~\tJ 

BILL AMEND 
M!<S . e,E'L~S :;!.NP GR.Ape r-,1ATtl Ct..ASS 
' • t-.117fl<E: DAME 
~ SPECIA!.­TEAl-45. 
beam.1 @nd.edu 


HOROSCOPE 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1999 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Marcia Wallace, Lyle Lovett, Fernando Valenzuela, Betsy Palmer, Barbara Bosson 
Happy Birthday: Take a progres­sive position in all that you do this year and you will be heard. Your mind is moving a mile a minute. and it's important that you dorument all of your ideas for later use. H you take the time to get to know some of the new people that come into your life, you won't be let down. Your num­bers: 7, 18, 21, 24, 39, 43 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You need to get serious about your finan. ctal situation. Discuss your career goals with superiors. If you don't get a favorable response, be prepared to move on. Consider your own business. 00000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't question your lover's where­abouts if you want to enjoy the time you spend together. You can make your relationsnip better just by doing things that you both enjoy. 00 
GEMINI (May 21-June ZO): You'll have the discipline to finish projects. Look at your options. You may find yourself in a position to move to an area that looks more promising. Opposition from your lover is likely 
0000
31 What's 48 Autumn apple 56 Cabbage 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Ask
happening 
50 Go in 

for help. Someone will surely believe 
57 1-Across, e.g. 
32 Parts of hearts 

in your ideas. Don't count on your 33 Piece in 58 Nov. 1152 Upper echelon 
partner to understand your motiva­
53 Shoestring 
tion. You will have to trust your own 54 "The Thin Man"
Harper's honorees 
instincts and depend on outsiders.
35 Fitting 
59 Convenience 

000 37 Copycat dog 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Expect to

55 "Immediately!" 60 Flower's place 
have problems with those you live with. Stubborn attitudes will make it 
39 Genealogy 
40 Bernardino 

hard to rectify the situation. You will 
41 Old paperboy's Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
have to bend if you want to make 
cry are available by touch-tone phone: 
things bearable. 000 
46 Midshipmen's 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
EUGENIA LAST 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You should be considering your options. You can pick up added skills. Travel should be a consideration, especially if it will help you promote the work you do. This is not the time to sit back 
andwait.000 
UDR.A (Sepl 23-0d. 22): You can make financial gains if you itet involved in stable but lucrative investments. You'll be able to deal with other people's problems. Don't let limitations set by others hold you
back.0000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Part­nerships will need nurturing. Be hon­est about your feelings. You're not on the same wavelength as your mate anymore. Give-and-take has to be equal if you want this union to last. 
00 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): 
You can make money by handling finances for others or getting involved in a safe investment. Your tendency to gamble may/ose a problem if you are tempte by risky ventures. 
00000 
CAPRICORN !Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
Creative pursuits will pay off. Your ability to oigaruze and get everyone working together will enhance your reputation and attract potential
mates.000 AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
You'll have a hard time getting those you live with to pitch in and help. Your ideas may be good, but talkirig others into helping you pay for the changes will be another story. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Involvement in cultural groups will ­enable you to meet allies and stimu­late ideas you can apply to projects in progress. Take care of overdue bills or correspondence. 000 
Birthday Baby: You are strong-willed. powerful and always reaching for a
rivals _ Annual subscriptions are available for the 
goal. You're tender, loving and know about life. As a force behind others,
47 First of two best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
you're truly an inspiration to those you encowtter throughout your life.
baseball games years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) C 1999 Universal~ Syndicate 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
------------------------------------------------.-------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name ______________________ 
Address ___________________ 
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 


Skating to a stalemate 
The Notre Dame hockey team and the Miami Redhawks finished a two­game series with a 2-2 tie this weekend.
PORTS 
page 22 


O
THE page 24 BSERVER Monday, November 1, 1999 
CROSS COUNTRY 

Irish men take first at Big East Championships 
pion Providence scored 61.
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
"It was just a matter of us 
Assistant Spom Ecliror 
believing in our ability," Watson said. ''We had some doubters, 
It took three tries. but the but we knew we could do it. It Irish men's cross country team was a matter of execution." knocked off its conforencll Watson placed third overall in 

.. 
archrival, the Georgetown the meet and second for the 
Hoyas, to win its second Big Irish. East Championship in three sea­"li was probably for me the sons. most exciting athletic moment of 
Junior Ryan Shay paced the my career," Watson said. Irish as he has all season, cap­"That's by far the biggest thing turing the Big East individual we've won since I've been hcre." 
title in an 8K time of 24 minutes The Irish depended on the 22 seconds. Shay aced out solid performances of their third Providence's Keith Kelly for th!1 through seventh runners in rap­title. passing him in the final turing the title. They had six 800-1000 meters of the race. runners finish in the top 20, all His time was the third-fastest in six finishing within 1:15 of one course history. another. Four Irish athletes gar­"Ryan ran very patiently and nered All-Big East honors ­
intelligently," said head coach Shay, sophomore Luke Watson. Joe Piane. "He waited until the senior Ryan Maxwell and sopho­last 800 to 1000 meters to more Marc Striowski. pass." Seniors John Dudlev, Sean 
Piane was named Big East McManus and Mike 0Griewe Coach of the Year for his coach­rounded out the scoring runners ing of this year's Big East cham­for the Irish. pions. Pianc is in his 25th year Piane considered the race to as head cross countrv and track be the team's best performancecoach of the Irish. · yet this year.
"The third time was a charm," "Absolutely, but I'm tellingsaid Piane. you this," Piane said. "To a man, Tenth-ranked Notre Dame they can run better. I think we had lost to seventh-ranked 
cari run even better over Georgetown twice previously 10,000-meters." this season, but managed to out­The Irish will rest for two run Georgetown Friday. The weeks before heading to the Irish scored 43 points in the NCAA District IV championships 
meet, with Georgetown, in Terre Haute, Ind. If 1.hey placeVillanova and Providence fight­first or second, they will receive ing for the runner-up position. an automatic bid to the NCAA 
Georgetown wound up captur­championships Nov. 22. ing second with 57 points, 14th­Otherwise, they should be able ranked Villanova was third with 60 points, and defending cham­
see IRISH/page 20 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 

-Streiffer's goal opens offensive floodgates against IU 
4-0 record. Records within a free kick from the corner to the
By MIKE CONNOLLY 

team's region are important for far post where Erikson tapped
Associate Spom E.diror 

determining seedings in the the ball into the goal for her upcoming NCAA Tournament. 12th goal of the year. 
The Indiana Hoosiers played The victory over the Hoosiers Brown assisted on the game­the sixth-ranked Notre Dame also gave the Irish their 39th winning goal as well. She women's soccer team tough for straight victory over Big 10 cleared the ball from the Irish 81 minutes, before All­teams -a streak dating back box up the right sideline to 
American Jenny Streiffer broke to 1989. senior Jenny Heft. !left drib­a 1-1 tie. Her goal sparked two The Hoosiers opened the bled up the sideline before more Irish goals in the next scoring in the second minute, spotting Streif'f'er sprinting three minutes as the Irish won when Kristen Sprunger stole a through the Hoosier back line. 4-l. failed clearing attempt and Streiffer streaked toward the 
Despite a 20-5 shot advan­beat Irish goalkeeper LaKeysia Hoosier net as Indiana goal­tage and a 10-3 edge in corner Beene to give Indiana a 1-0 keeper Ashley Davis came out kicks, the Irish trailed for most lead. to challenge her shot but of the first half and did not take The Hoosiers held the lead Streiffer beat her to the lower 
the lead until late in the second for most for the first half until right corner for her 14th goal half. The victory improved the junior forward Mentis Erikson of the year. Streiffer's goal was Irish to 15-3 on the year and tied the game in the 35th the 65th goal of her career. gave them a first place finish in minute. Senior Notre Dame The Irish struck again in the the Great Lakes Regions with a defender Kara Brown fired a 
see W. SOCCER/page 20 




-
Volleyball at Seton Hall, vs. Qatar, -at Tennessee, MIAA Tournament, Wednesday, l p.m. Nov. 5, 7:30 p.m. Nov. 6, 7:30 p.rn. 
SPORTS ~ '$J 
Tuesday, All Day

ATA •
at Big East Quarterfinals, Volleyball at Nebraska-Omaha, vs. Ohio All-Stars, Tuesday, 7:30 p.m. vs. Illinois State, ~ Nov. 5, 8:05 p.m. Nov. 7, 7:30 p.m. 
GLANCE ~ 

Wednesday, 8 p.m. 









