_________..,....__,..._______ Throwing punches 

Brad Pitt's and Hd Norton's new movie "Fight Club" was a success last weekend. Read The Observer's review ofthis movie. 
Scene . page 13 

THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXXIII NO. 40 , HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EOU 
Basketball coaching legend Marv Wood dies froID cancer 
Hy NELLIE WILLIAMS 

Nt•w, Writer  
Marv W()ocl, the former Saint Mary's bas­ 
k1Hbal I ('oach who inspired the movie  
"lloosinrs," died Wednesday, Oct. 13, from  
lm1w cancer. Ile was 71.  
In 1954. Wood took his small town team  
l'rom Milan. Ind .. to the state championship,  
wh1)r11 it dnfeated city school Muncie  
C1mtrnl.  
Al'lnr CIHtr.hing al Milan. Wood coached at  
Mishawaka lligh Srhool. !nclianapo!is North  
C:1•11tral. Nriw c:astlc, for ,\matcur Athletic  
Union !AALI) and Saint Mary's.  
"I wcnL Lo the athklic director and said I  
know this coach." said Tammie Hadke, a f"or­ 
nwr Saint Mary's player who playnd undr,r  
Wood for AAU.  
"Ill\ blew !LIH~ athletic department! over,"  
slrn said. "Ile had a history of coaching !"or  
so many yc•ars. fin playnd in college. Ile  
knew what it was like to be an underdog  
and hnl1rnd us win sonw games we probably  
shouldn't hav,i."  
Wood bngan coaching at Saint Mary's in  
I <)84. For I I ynars he coached the Belles,  
tnad1ing tlwm not only game skills, but life  
skills as wdl.  
"lit! was very supportive landl treated me  
likl~ a son," said Frank Notturno. one of  
Wood's assistant coaclrns. "!!lei made him­ 
SPII' availablP lo talk to. lend advice. land he I  
was tlwrP whcn I was alone during the holi­ 
days."  
"lit• was more concerned about us in life  
than lw was us in haskPtball." said former  
Photo courtesy of Saint Mary's Yearbook player Charlolte Albrecht. Former Saint Mary's basketball coach Marv Wood lost his battle against bone cancer Wednesday, October 13. 
A!hrechl played for Wood in his last year Wood coached at Saint Mary's for 11 years and was an ispiration to his players. His 1954 Milan High School 
or coaching, af'ter Wood had already sur­basketball team inspired the movie "Hoosiers".  
vived one bout with cancer.  
"Everyday was a !lire] lesson to be learned  said Julie Hadke, who also played for  them. [He] said, 'Son, we don't do any  "I loved the season (1995-19961 I  
hy us from him. lie would come to practice  Wood. "He knew so much about the  scouting here. We watch what the  spent with him. Ile knew what he  
and say 'It's a great day to be alive,"'  game and really cared about the  other team does in the first few min­ wanted to execute as far as his  
Albrecht said. "He was different from any other coach I'd ever met. He wasn't so much  players who played for him. He was a great man."  utes and then we adjust,"' he said. Wood was a friend with everyone,  coaching style. As a coach, he had this quiet confidence about himself.  
about winning in basketball -he was more  Notturno recalled Wood's style on  said John Kovach, Wood's assistant  "[Wood was al very fair individual  
about winning in lifo." "lie kind of symbolizes everything you wanted in a coach -determined, focused,"  the court. "I remember when I offered to scout opposing teams prior to playing  coach during his last year at Saint Mary's. "He knew everybody," said Kovach.  and had expectations from everyone," Kovach continued. [lie] knew the game needed to be fun."  

Gonzalez tells effects of Gold Rush 
By LINDSAY FRANK 
News Wrirer 
The roots of conflict between Mexican immi­grants and white Californians stem from the c;ol.d Hush nf' 1849. according to University of San Diego history professor Michael Gonzalez. 
Gonzalez said resentment that many people lef>l toward their neighbors is indicative of how history tends lo repeat il'ielf. 
"What we say and do in the present is a cul­mination of the past," he said. 
During tho Gold Hush. Mexican miners, equipped with knowledge of silver mining. moved North and set up mining camps along with other Spanish speakers from countries like ChilP. 
Fear of the unknown and wild rumors of these groups as roaming bandits contributed to the rise of cont1ict and hostility, said Gonzalez. 
"The prnscnct1 or an unfamiliar people excit­1~d speculation that the Mexican miners were preparing to start controversy," he said. 
The extreme work ethic and skills these min­ers possessed were equal to and in some cases 

see GONZALEZ/page 4 



ND student falls, in coIDa in London 
put him in a coma in order to
Observer Staff Repon 
l
more safely treat the swelling in his brain.
A student visiting friends 
l
lie did not damage hisduring fall break at the 
spine or neck in the !"al!, but
University's London Program 
tlrnre is significant injury to 
now lies unconscious in a 1
his brain and some blood in
London hospital after suffer­
his lungs.
ing serious hearl injuries in a "This is obviously a prettyfall. 
serious injury," Kirk said.
Andy Donlan, a junior from Hospital officials and admin­
Fisher Hal!, is currently in 
i s tr a to rs al the Londonstable condition in an inten­
Program declined to com­
sive therapy unit at the ment without permission
National Hospital for 
from Donlan's family.
Neurology and Neurosurgery 
Notre Dame administra­
in London. The accident hap­tors, including associatr, vice
pened on the night of 
president for Student AffairsSaturday, Oct. 16, Donlan 's Father Mark Poorman, have
first night in London. 
been in close contact with the
He is expected to remain in 
Donlans, according to Kirk.
the hospital for several 
"We'rn trying to give the
weeks. said Bill Kirk, assis­
family as much support astant vice president for 
Residence Life. Doctors there 
see DONLAN/page 4 
.....---------.-------;:­
Acontroversial issue 
A student defends Coming Out Day and responds to a previous letter to the editor that attacked it. 
Viewpoint. page 11 


Thursday 
OCTOBER 28, 
1999 
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Thursday, October 28, 1999 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Amen 

As the final seconds on the stadium clock tick down after every home game, thousands of people pour from the bleachers and take off in a great race. While some rush to the parking lots or dinner reservations 
in town, others scurry toward the Basilica for the Saturday evening Mass. 
That Mass is always pop­ular with visitors and it's hard to get a seat as the faithful fill the pews and spill into the aisles. grab­bing every inch of floor 


space along the altar and off to the sides. On a recent Erica Thesing autumn evening, I joined the chaos with two visiting friends. Decked out in our Associate Irish gear and exhausted News Editor from a long day of Notre Dame football, we claimed a tiny square of carpeting near the pew reserved for the handicapped. 
Two men in wheelchairs were behind us that evening: one who seemed perfectly healthy despite his useless legs, and another whose body appeared ravaged by years of disease. This man strugglt,d to sit upright as his arms flailed about, and his cloudy eyes never focused on those around him. His head bobbed almost uncontrollably, calmed only by the soothing hand of a friend accompanying him. 
When the Mass began, the first man fully participated. He spoke clearly at all the right 
times and sang along with the Women's Liturgical Choir in the loft far above. The sec­ond man, however, labored to join in. His moist lips and tongue never formed the right words and his responses were little more than groans. 
During the sign of peace, the first man warm­ly greeted those around him with a firm grip. The second man struggled to shape his uncoop­erative fingers into a handshake, and required assistance to connect those fingers with anyone else. His attempts at "Peace be with you" were barely coherent. 
At those post-game Masses, receiving Communion is quite a production. The aisles are blocked by extra people who have no pews to sit in and the Eucharistic ministers on the sides of the altar are often squeezed into tiny nooks with lines flowing around them in all directions. The process is time-consuming, allowing the idle to irreverently stare at their neighbors. I watched as a Eucharist minister squeezed through the crowd toward the men in the wheelchairs. Although some dictate from my 14 years of Catholic education told me that I should be using that time to pray, I couldn't take my eyes of the man behind me as the min­ister neared him. 
"The Body of Christ," the minister said. 

I listened closely, wondering if the minister would even be able to hear a response. Seconds passed, and awkward fingers slowly, gently, came together. Then one flailing hand softened and folded into the other, forming a cup for Christ. The bobbing head straightened and the cloudy eyes cleared for the first time that evening, staring straight ahead. 
"Alnen." 

The response was so articulate and unmis­takable that the tears soon followed, not from the eyes accepting the body of Christ hut from the irreverent eyes watching him. Within sec­onds my cheeks were wet and.when I reached the front of the line, it was I who struggled to say"Amen." For in that simple exchange 
between a man and his God. I witnessed a mir­acle. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Scene 
Josh Bourgeois Amanda Greco Matthew Smirh Graphics Erin LaRuffa Katie Kennedy 
Sports Production 
Molly McVoy Lauren Berrigan 

Viewpoint Lab Tech 
Colleen Gaughen Jeff Hsu 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Mondoy through Friday eKccpr during exam and vacation pctiod5. The Observer is a member or the Associated Preli>. All reproduction righrs arc reserved, 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS AT NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
his wallet and found his fake ID. 


Duke's national move is 'no sweat' 
DURHAM, N.C. 

Duke's local anti-sweatshop movement just went national. Four members of Students Against Sweatshops traveled to Washington, D.C. late last week to address the Senate Foreign Relations Committee ­an indication that the student-led anti-sweatshop movement may be gaining some national political clout. Casey Harrell, senior and spokesperson for the delegation, testified before the committee as part of its hearings on the International Labor Organization's Convention on the Worst Forms of Child Labor. The treaty, adopted unanimously in June by ILO delegates from 174 countries, is intended to eliminate the exploitation of children through pornography, prostitu­tion, slavery, hazardous work and compulsory military service. "It was just a good chance to talk about what we've been doing here, for one thing, and also to talk about some of the struggles we're going through right now," said Trinity sophomore Justin McBride. In a five-minute speech prepared collaboratively by the stu­dent delegation, the group showed the need for strin­gent regulation. 
Thursday 
. 
Concert: Notre Dame Glee Club, Washington Hall, 8 p.m., free admis­sion 

. 
AcoustiCafe: Student bands and performers, Lafortune Student Center, 9 p.m. 




OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Friday 

. 
Pep Rally: Joyce Center, gates open at 5:50 p.m. students. 6:10 p.m. others 

. 
Concert: Natalie MacMaster, O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's, 8 p.m., tickets available at 284-4626 


IOWA CITY, Iowa 
University of Iowa sophomore Dalton Kidd, 20, never expected Iowa City police oftlcers to confiscate his false ID after he was caught car­rying a case of beer that had been purchased by a 21-year-old friend. 
Kidd's friend had bought the beer at a convenience store and had given it to Kidd to carry. 
When he walked away from the store, Kidd hesitated when he heard someone yell, "Hey, stop," from behind but kept walking when he saw two men wearing jeans. 
After catching up to Kidd, the two men pulled out flashlights and iden­tified themselves as undercover Iowa City police officers. 
"They patted me down because they said I was trying to run," Kidd said, which is when they searched 

Saturday 
. 
Film: "An Ideal Husband," Snite Museum of Art, 7:30 & 9:45 p.m., tickets $2 

. 
Film: "Urban Legends." Carroll Auditorium, Saint Mary's College, 9 p.m., tickets $2 


"Look for obvious defects such as discoloration, bubbls or air bneath the lamination, larger or darker typesetting . " 
Andy Lewis 

Department of Transportation 

But users of false identification are not the only ones harmed when they are caught -alcohol venders also suffer consequences. 
In an effort to curtail the accep­tance of false IDs, state officials met with local alcohol providers at the Ramada Inn, in Coralville, Tuesday. 
"Look for obvious defects such as discoloration, bubbles or air beneath the lamination, larger or darker 
Sunday 
. Mass: The Basilica of the Sacred Heart, 10 and 
11:45 a.m. 
. Happy Halloween! 
candy for everyone ... 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 


Fake ID's are trouble for U of Iowa students 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
The AccuWeathel"' forecast for noon, Thursday, Oct. 28. 
AccuWeather0 forecast for daytime conditions arul high temperature, 
~ 

308 40~ FRONTS: 
....,....... .&...&. ........,..
O 1999 AccuWeather, Inc. 


COLD STATIONARY

1--~---------------WARM 
Prut!Jffl: 

® © D ~ . Em" ~ . ~ (J ·~ 1iiBJ 
High. Low Show•r• Rain T-•lorm• Flurrlea Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
vi., Assoclatod Pmss 

Atlan\a 74 52 Dallas 80 63 Orchard Park 57 33 Aurora 62 49 Fredonia 59 34 Pittsburgh 69 37 
~-~-~~~~ (f ~ c& Boston 56 '41 Los Angeles 71 
63 San Francisco 68 55 

Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice $uflflj/ Pt C/cudy Cloudy 
Buffalo 57 33 New Orteans BO 51 Seattle 53 50 
Via Associaf9d Press GrapliicsNet 
Chicago 64 54 New York 60 44 Wash DC 65 44 
typesetting than normal. false photos and obvious errors in information or dates," said Andy Lewis. a state Department of Transportation inves­tigator. 
Several state organizations and departments sponsored the program and introduced two new technolo­gies that would help establishments identify false IDs. 
The "Identifier" and "Viage" are two types of magnetic scanners that read the magnetic strip on the back of the drivers' licenses and state IDs, then show the age of the user on its screen. The information can also be saved and stored on any PC software and printed out. 
"We have been using a scanner to read IDs for about six months," said Dave Moore, co-owner of the Fieldhouse. "It's been successful in 
catching some good fakes, but we 
JFK films found at Texas Christian 
FORT WORTH, Texas 

On Nov. 22, 1963, President John F. Kennedy spoke to a crowd of supporters at a breakfast at the Hotel Texas in Fort Worth. As he joked with the crowd, laughter and joy spread throughout the ballroom. But hours later, sadness and grief spread across the nation as Kennedy was assassinated in Dallas. Those few hours in Fort Worth, captured on 8mm film, were discovered in the Mary Couts Burnett Library among material donated to the university. In 1990, former Speaker of the House and current TCU professor Jim Wright donated the collection of material he compiled during his 34 years in Congress. The 8mm film was found among the material, and it has left TCU archivist Glenda Stevens wondering who owns the film. Most work comes to the library with an identified creator, Stevens said. Books have authors and letters have signatures, but this film is different because no one knows who shot the footage, she said. "In the case of a piece of film like this, it could have been from someone who was in the district and at the breakfast," Stevens said. 
Thursday, October 28, 1999 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



Future of Gender Studies debated 
By KATE NAGENGAST 
New, Writer 
As the Gender Studies pro­gram !'aces its I0th anniver­sary and an extl\rnal review in 2000, professors and students gathered W11dnesday to dis­cuss its future at Notre Dame. 
Both a 
r:o n ce n tra­tio n and a Sflcond major at Notre 

Green

I> a m e . 
Gnndflr Studies includes morn than 40 cotirsfls and approximatt>ly 85 faculty members. The pro­gram began in the spring of 11)88 as an undergraduato conc11ntration in tlrn college o!' i\rts and Letters. 
"This forum ... is part of' an intellectual process of writing a statement of purpos,i as a part of' our external examina­tion procoss," explainod Kathleen Biddick, history pro­fossor and present11r at the rnundtable. 
Tim forum began with pre­sentations bas11d on l\'\O arti· l'fos published in "Differences: i\ .Journal of' Feminist Cultural Studies," but quickly focused on th1~ relevance of' gendor studies lo Notre Dame. 
Craham llammill, an assis­tant prof'nssor of' English and tho forum's second presenter, raisnd issues such as involvo­111 n nl with Saint Mary's Worrn•n's Studilis program and llrn consiclPration of' the Catholic identity as it aff,~cts g1•mlnr studies. 
In addition, Biddick specif'i• cally mPntiorrnd a "fruitful 
direction" ignored by the debated articles. 
"I think that gender studies of the future 1rneds to bring the fine arts studio out of the closet ... because that's where the aesthetic issues of cultural and capital can negotiate," she said. "I'd like to see an undergraduate education that [thought] of ... students not only as producers of so-called knowledge, but students as producers of so-called art." 
However, this program also has bureaucratic considera­tions, such as the potential for Gender Studies to become a that] Gender Studies has not become a dumping ground for misogyny and homophobia," she said. 

Barbara Green, director of Gender Studies, also suggested the unique opportunities gen­der studies provides. "Students come to Gender Studies to try to work out the contradictions that they expe­rience ... in everyday life. This is a period of transition [for many students]." she said. 
However, the unique oppor­tunities offered by gender studies truly occur in the classroom. From an 
academic
"Students come to Gender
primary perspective, major in a Studies to try Meghan 
designated to work out the Lynch, a department senior with a
contradictions that they 
and the sub­major in
experience in
seq u n n t anthropology effects that everyday life. " and a con­
would have centration in on the pro­G e n d e r 
gram's flexi­Barbara Green Studies, bility. director of Gender Studies commented, 
The al'ore­m en ti one d articles were referred to as "caution­ary talcs of institutionalized programs" because their authors seemed to lose sight ol' tho original goals of' gender studies and the importance of sludnnt/faculty relations. All members of tho discussion agreed that students should remain tlrn primary focus of any academic discipline. 
In addition to dealing with the bureaucratic issues all departments face, some gen­dor studios programs are bur­dened by prejudices. However Biddick does not believe that is the casti at Notre Dame. 
"I think we've been very lucky here [al Notre Dame in 
Spectrum Sports Sale 
"OfficiaUy Licensed" 

"There is a 
broad spec­
trum of interests in the program [because another major is required]." 
Christine Wolbrecht, assis­tant professor of government, agreed, "We want to emphasis that Girnder Studies is an interdisciplinary program where we honor different per­spectives. 
"One of' the ways gender studies is going to survive in the new millennium, not just here but everywhere, is by showing universities that our programs are already unique­ly situated to provide a place for this interdisciplinary work to come together," Wolbrecht said. 

Notre Dame Products 
At 
Logan Center 

0  Selected ND Sweatshirts  $19.95  <Rec-S4U!) With Pun:base **  
*" Selected ND T-Sbirts  $ 9.95  O'te• i14.9!!) With Pun:hase ••  
Odler Foolblll Weeknd Specials:  ~  &ma!  

$124.95
Champion Varsity Leather Jackec.............(Awesome Deal) ..... $299.95 S 9.95
Selected NO Hats...........(These Go Fast!) ........................... $ 24.95 S 29.95
ND Butt<.WJ•Down Dress Shirt ...... (.Khaki, Navy)...................,$ 59.95 S 49.9~
Hooded ND Jacket with Fleece Lining., .. (Full front Zip) ......... $ 89.95 
-Check Ou&•• Great~lectioll ofNotre Dame lroduc:b at tu Lopn Ce¦wr­
•Olov.s, Banneni, Golf Item,, 1ewl~, Kid, and Toddler Items, Helmets, J'ootball1, 
Signed C'ollel;tibles by Mont.111&, Holtz, Ri.:e, Mayts, Brown, Hornung, and many 01bcr licensed N otrf Dame Items. 
Special Houn For NAVY Weekend 
Friday Oct. 29th, 9:00 a.m. until.9:00 p.m. Saturday Oct. 30th, 8:00 a.m. untd 1 :30 p.m. 
•Logan Center located south of I.he stadium at the corner of Eddy and Juniper "'Free gift to first 50 purchases -complim¢nts ofSpectrum Sports (309-786-9318) 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
BOG discusses School of A01ericas 
By COURTNEY BOYLE 
News Writer 

Saint Mary's Board of Governance (BOG) discussed passing a resolution to sup­port shutting down the School of the Americas (SOA) during Wednesday night's meeting. 
SOA is a military school on Georgia's Benning Military base that allegedly 
"We want to say on our banner the school of Saint Mary's supports this," said Peacemakers member Katie Cousino. The pacifist group will also approach faculty in hopes of carrying their endorsement to Georgia. 
"We came to the student's lirst because the faculty fol­lows what the students say," said Cousino. 
BOG tabled this topic until 
next week 
so that 
specializes they can

"We want to say on our
in educat­research 
ing Latin banner the school of the topic
Americans Saint Mary's supports more and soldiers in 
have a full

this [the shutting down of 
torture tac­
under­

tics. The the School ofAmericas]." 
standing of funding for 
the issues. these class­
Also dis­es come 
Katie Cousino 
cussed at

member of Peacemakers
from tax dollars, w h j C h means that the U.S. spends $3. 9 billion annually to fund SOA. 
In order to take a stand on such a school the Peacemakers of Saint Mary's will protest walk in Georgia to show their support in wanting SOA shut down. However, the student Pnacemakers would like to carry a banner saying that Saint Mary's also shares these same views. 
In order to do this they are asking for an endorsement from BOG. 
Lori's Riding Stable 
Lori Moore-Owner 
3912 Nimtz Parkway South Bend, IN 46628 (219) 232-0603 
Acres of wooded trails Best by Appointment 10 minutes west of ND No Experience Necessary 
Wednesday 
night's 

meeting was Senior Dad's Weekend, scheduled for Nov. 12 to 14. Many events are planned for the senior women and their dads. 
Friday night's kick off will be Casino Night at Union Station from 8 p.m. to 12 
a.m. Saturday is the Twilight Tailgate at Heartland from 2:30 p.m. until the end of the Pitt game. To wrap up the week­end there will be a Mass on Sunday morning at 9:45 a.m. 
The cost for thn entire weekend is $115. 

Box Office at 
284-4626 

of six American women. 
Thursday -Saturday November 11 -13 at 8 p.m. 
Sunday, November 14 at 2:30 p.m. Little Theatre 
1M8£~()
c~THEARTS 
~NOTREDAMIE, IH 

got news? 1-5323. 
-·--------.....-­
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, October 28, 1999 

Gonzalez 
continued from page 1 

greater than that of their Anglo­Saxon counterparts. Gonzalez said the white miners' bitterness toward these skills may have provoked the violence they inflicted 
theupon 
Mexican "Maybe in some way they l e n c e , 
miners. {Anglo-Saxons] beat their today's "Maybe Mexican
Mexican compatriots in an 

in some immigrants
effort to reduce the similari­face the
way they beat their ties between them." same hostili­

Mexican ty. Despite compatri­the fact that 
Michael Gonzalez

ots in an by 2040, 48 effort to lecturer percent of 
reduce the similarities between them," he said. 
The violence Mexican miners endured during this time at the hands of the white Americans was extremely severe. 

"If the lynching episodes pro­vide any gauge the Mexicans, more than other Spanish speak­ers, had a greater chance of experiencing violence," said Gonzalez. 
However, despite fantastic tales of Mexican miners seeking 
Donlan 
continued from page 1 
we can," he said. The University helped fly Donlan's brother, a freshman at Notre Dame, back to campus when classes resumed this week. 
Father Richard Warner, director of Campus Ministry and a priest-in-residence at. Fisher Hall, went to London during the break and celebrat­ed Mass for Andy. Approximately 65 students attended the Mass in London, and all services since then have been dedicated to the revenge by massacring their white persecutors, Gonzalez said the presence of their families would have hindered the Mexicans from retaliating. 
"It is unlikely they would have exposed their families to vio­lence," he said. 
Gonzalez also said that while the miners may have experi­
enced more 
physical vio­
California's 
population will have a Spanish surname, many white Californians contin­ue to view these new Hispanic residents as nothing but drug dealers, welfare cheats and vagabonds, Gonzalez noted. 
"We must note the symmetry between then and now," he said. "To degenerate the newcomer is to deny all ties." 
Gonzalez spoke as part of the American Studies Seminar lee­ture series. 
student. 
One London student was impressed with how the Program and the University have rallied around the hospi­talized Donlan. 

"It's a tribute to the University as a whole through this," said Donlan's friend Chris Chambers, who is spending the semester in London. "It's amazing how many people are thinking about him and praying for him and pulling for him, which I think his family really appreci­ates." 
The junior class will sponsor a prayer service and Mass for Donlan in the Fisher Hall Chapel at 5:15 p.m. today. 
PR9JECT WARMTH 

STUDENT SENATE 

Student senators discussed issues such as CushinJ's showing of the movie "South Park" and the color of the water tower at yesterday's meeting. 
'South Park' discussed at meeting 
By FINN PRESSLY 
Assistant News Editor 
While mid-semester break kept Student Senate from pre­senting any new business at last night's meeting, they did discuss a handful of minor concerns. 
Parliamentarian Stephen Sanchez expressed concern over this weekend's SUB movie, "South Park," at Cushing. 
"I've seen it ["South Park"J, and I think it's pretty offen­sive," said Sanchez. "What if SUB chose to show a movie that's more offensive?" 
Student Activities director Joe Cassidy replied that the University tends to exercise more control over the movies presented outdoors on the Cushing. they've made a con­scious decision to watch the movie," he said. 
quads,  rather  than  the  
Cushing films.  
"If  someone  goes  into  

In other senatP news: 
. Keenan senalor Matthew Kloser brought two concerns before the senate. According to Kloser, residents in Keenan have requested a drop-off box for film development in LaFortune. 
Lyons senator Jill Boroniec said topic had been discussed with personnel from the book­store who expressed interest in pursuing the idea further. 
Kloser also brought forward the paint color of the water tower. He suggested a navy blue with a gold interlocking "ND" logo to replace the cur­rent sky blue color scheme. 
Student body president Micah Murphy expressed doubt over the proposal, stat­ing the dark color may attract too much solar heat. Chief of staff Matt Mamak also sug­gested that the sky blue color may have been deliberately chosen to disguise the large metal structure. 
. 
Hall Presidents Council representative Emily Todd reported three issues in par­ticular that were discussed at the last meeting of HPC: the closing of the dining halls dur­ing mid-semester break, a phone at the north end of North Dining Hull and the inclusion of more undergradu­ate students in College Bowl. 

. 
Colleen Sobolewski replaced Maureen Donovan as the Saint Mary's senate repre­sentative. 



the library is closed... 
your midterm is at 8. 
f•cts and P'l9•r•• •• Po,rerty and A••rlc•'• Workina Poor In 18t7, 13.3% of ttle U.S. population, or315-8 mllllon people, llved In poverty. In the median stale a minimum-• -11.•r-uld have to wor1' 87 hours nch week to afford a two-bedroom apartment at :SO% cf hie or her Income, which 18 the federal definition of afford­eble houal~ A 1888 study e.Umated that '8% of the Jobs with the mo9t growth between 18M and 2005 pay i... than sn,ooo a year; 1MhJobe wlll not 11ft famffln out of poverty. Moreover, 74% of ttieu Jobe pay bet-a llvllble wage ($32,185 for a fantlly Of four).  


Project \Narmth is in full swng!! 

The Center for Social Concerns is excited about sponsoring another successful run of Project \Narmth this year. Last year, approximately 1500 coats were received and disiributed to sites aB aaoss the country, includng the Appalachia region, Indian reservations in the Dakaas, and outreach facilities tVOUnd the South Bend area. 
EVERYONE can pri~ate! The folkJ'Mng sites «e eager to accept YOIS coat dona­tions until December 3! Please give generously!!! 
ear.for Social Concerns• Hammes Bookstore* Laforiune Information Desk* RecSpats *Alt.Jnni Com­

versity~E
munity Service Office * Campus Ministry/Hesbtl'gh Library* AN Residence Halls *College of Business Admirisfration *St Michael's Launcty Distri>ution Center 
free lecture notes * Bond Hall * Fitzpatrick Engineering *Flanner Hall * Galvin Life Science Center *Grace Hall *Law School * 
knowledge center
Main Building * O'Shaughnessy * Nath/South DinirQ Hal 
* ND Federal Credi Union* Student Government Office in lafor1une 

fail-meRnot reminder service
Give away your coat... 
and SHARE THE WARMTH. 

online study groups
Sponscred /Jy: 

UNIVERSITY OIi' NoTRE DAME 
St. Michael's GEAR IAMMf5 BoolCSTORE STUDEH1' GoVERNMENT Laundry 
www.versity.com 



.

orld 
I• 
Thursday, Occober 28, 1999 C0MPILEO FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
-=========-=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--===~=============================================================================== 
AFP Photo 

Hundreds protest in Paris against the detention of 13 Jews arrested in Iran, accused of spying for Israel. Iran's president Mohammed Khatami is making a three-day visit to France, the first such visit by an Iranian president since the 1979 revolution. 
Iranian president visits France 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
FDA approves new flu pill 
WASIIINGTON 

Flu sufferc>rs won their first effective pill againsl both Lypcs A and B llu Wednesday, as tlrn Food and Drug Administration approved Tamillu. Thn pill, manuf'actured by Hoffman l.a-Hoclrn, helped reduce the duralion and snverily of flu symptoms in unvaccinated adults who agrned to b(1 infected with influen­za lo tnst the drug. Wndncsday's decision means t'lu sufferers this year hav_,. two nPw trnatnwnt rhoic1,s. The FDA earlier approved an inhaled llu drug callncl HBlnnza that also works against both /\ and B flu. Older 11u mmlicines worked against only the type /\ flu, which accounts for about two-thirds of the i!Stimatl'd 20 million U.S. flu cases yuarly, and doctors havl! said those medicines didn't work Vf\ry wdl. 
Female golfers win suit over 
bad tee times 
BOSTON 

Nine fnmale ~olfors who said Urny worn giv(•n turrible tee Limes and deniod othor country club bnnclits bncause of their gendnr Wl'l'P awarded nearly $2 million Wednesday by a jury. Tlm amount of tlrn damages -from a Superior Court jury of seven mnn and seven wonwn -nven surpris(\d attorn(~ys for tlw plaintiffs. "I think it's a case which puts coun­try clubs and otlrnr institutions on notice that wonwn have a right Lo Urn same opportunilies as men." said Assistant Attorncv General Anthony Hoclriguuz, whose ol'lice r;presented tlin women. Ilcnry Owens, the attorney for the I lav,irhill Country Club, said there was no dis­crimination al tirn club. callml the damages 11xccssivc and promised Lo appeal. 
Hundreds mourn mother of Columbine victim 
IIIGIILANDS HANCII, Colo. 

llundreds or people attended the funeral Wednesday of" a woman who committed sui­cide six months after her daughter was criti­cally injured in the Columbine High School shooting. Carla llochhaltnr, 48, shot herself' in a pawn shop last week. Helalives have said she suffered from clinical dnprcssion, and that Urn Columbinu shootings and her daughter's gravn injuries were more than she could tol­erate. "The strnss was mounting, and Carla was dealing with an illness," pastor David .lnnsen told mourners at Christ Lutheran Church. "It became too much, not just for Carla, but for many of us." About 700 perlple filled lhe church's main sanctuary and a sepa­rat(~ room set up with folding chairs and a tel1wision screen for the overflow crowd. Hochhalter walked into an Englewood pawn shop Friday and asked lo see a handgun, police said. 

1296.71 
, 14 ~{)

10,394.89 
VOLUME LEADERS 

CW.H11fl  IU:lilB  li CISMIQI  I ~tl.Mmi  1111;1  
PAa'f'NJ:ll COMM-AD INTIL CORP  ...... INTC  •U.Stl -2 .80  . l.6i0D -1.99'"15  1'.196~.u  
COtlPA.Q COMJUT~ KlCROSO,.,. ~OJtP  CPQ......  ~~ -l6 .. 1 •. n  •.000 -l-050  191.06 \aO.U  
l>IU.,L  COMPU'J'D  DILL  -:z.n  ·l.1U5  311, l8  
craco sYs'l'acs  CIC<>  4-:I.U  +1.9'00  69.19  
CI~UUOVP  "'"  C  . 6 .06  +J.!HOO  51.U  
nco IN'l'L  LTD  TYC  -5.36  •l.1700  u.aa  
""'' 'WOF.LDCOtf AT•T COllP  t~  WC:«"..•  +a .9'1 ""•b  t:2.:JU'5 WIOb  17,"il H,00  

FRANCE 


House votes to limit assisted suicide 
detained. 

France also increased border controls along fron­tiers with Germany and Italy. sending back many Iranians trying to enter the country to protest Khatami's presence in France. 
Interior Minister Jean­Pierre Chevenement, justi­fying the measures, spoke of "serious and precise threats." 
The Iranian president, on his second trip to Europe since his 1997 election, has reached out to the West, 
tion to improve end-of-life care. 
"Suicide is the ultimate act of' despair and facilitat­ing the intentional killing of a human life is the opposite of healing," said Hyde. 
The measure is a major setback for Oregon, the only state that has legalized physician-assisted suicide for patients with less than six months to live. All 15 patirmts who died under the law during its first full year in 1998 used controlled substances to end their lives. 
During the House debate. some members spoke of the debate in personal terms ­a child who died of seeking dialogue over con­frontation. But his power struggle with hard-liners in Tehran means he must tread carefully. 
The visit comes during a period of increased tension between various factions in Iran, and many cases of alleged human rights abus­es, including the charging of 13 Iranian Jews as spies. 
After a lengthy meeting with French President Jacques Chirac, Khatami said he sought a world in which all nations have equal weight. 
leukemia, a parent who died from cancer -but used those experiences to draw opposite conclusions. 
Some llyde supporters compared physician-assist­ed suicide to euthanasia and abortion and invoked the name of Dr. Jack Kevorkian. 
Oregonians painstakingly tried to point out the protec­tions in their law that limit the circumstances when people can take their lives. "Please read tho Oregon statute before you vote," pleaded Hep. David Wu, D­Ore. 
With the Houso passage, attention now turns to the Senatu. 
Associated Press 

PARIS 
Iran's president began the first visit to France by an Iranian leader since the 1979 Islamic revolution on Wednesday, urging respect among nations during a trip that prompted French authorities to tighten border security and raid the offices of an Iranian opposition group. 
President Mohammad Khatami, who is locked in a fierce power struggle with conservative clerics in Iran, was kept apart from angry protesters who held demonstrations in Paris. On the three-day visit, the mod­erate president is aiming to fortify Iran's timid ties to the West. 
French police, fearing vio­lence from Iranian opposi­tion groups, stepped up security and staged a pre­dawn crackdown on mem­bers of Iran's largest exile organization. Up to 40 peo­ple, most apparently mem­bers of the People's Mujahedeen of Iran, were 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
The House stepped into the emotional debate of physician-assisted suicide Wednesday, voting to bar doctors from using federally controlled drugs to help patient-; die. 
The House voted 271-156 for a bill sponsored by tlousfl Judiciary Chairman Henry Hyde that penalizes doctors who aid in a suicide but encourages them to treat the pain of dying patients. 
Opponents said the bill would discourage pain treatment for millions of 
Americans. Doctors will be so worried about losing their licenses to prescribe drugs, and spending at least 20 years in jail for aiding in a suicide. that they will decline to dispense needed medication, they said. 
"For the first time we've got law enforcement mak• ing medical decisions," said Hep. Darlene Hooley, D-Orc. 
Hyde, R-111., dismissed suggestions that his bill would create a medical "Gestapo," saying federal drug agents already review prescriptions. Ile said the bill adequately protects doc­tors who treat pain, while authorizing $5 million for more training and educa­
page6 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, October 28, 1999 
ARMENIA 
Gunmen kills seven and pri01e minister 


Associated Press 
YEHEVAN 

Gunmen holding dozens of hostages in the Armenian parliament said Thursday they were close to a peaceful solu­tion after talks with the coun­try's president. The attackers earlier killed the prime minis­ter and seven other politicians in a torrent of gunfire. 
President Robert Kocharian was handling negotiations with the gunmen at the parliament building. An agreement had b1c1en reached to allow the gun­men to make a television broadcast. they claimed. 
"Literally 15 minutes ago I met with the president, and we decided that the problem would be solved peacefully:' the leader of the gunmen, Nairi Unanian, told Russia's NTV nl"t­work in a phone interview. 
Unanian claimed the presi­dent had guaranteed the gun­men's security and that they would be given a fair trial. 
The gunmen overnight released four hostages. 
Police said up to five gunmen were holding hostages in the main chamber of the parlia­ment building. The gunmen claimed they were holding 50 hostages. 
"They said it was a coup and called on the journalists to inform people about it. They said they were going to punish the authorities for what they did to the nation," said one reporter who was in the cham­ber during the attack. 
Unanian told a local televi­sion station: "This is a patriotic action. This shake-up is needed for the nation to regain its senses." 
"The country is in a cata­strophic situation. People are hungry and the government doesn't offer any way out," he said. 
In an interview wi.tb Armenian TV channel A 1 Plus. he said the deaths were unin­tended except for Prime Minister Vazgen Sarkisian, who he claimed had failed to serve the nation. 
The other deaths, he said, were "the resulL of technical mistakes." 
"Other than the prime minis­ter, Vazgen Sarkisian, all the othArs are innocent victims," he said in the interview, as report­ed by the !TAR-Tass news agency. 
Armenian television broad­cast footage of the stunning attack, showing at least two men in long coats firing auto­matic weapons in the parlia­ment chamber. Some lawmak­ers dove under their desks, oth­ers t1ed into the strnets. 
One of the attackers approached the prime minister and said: "Enough of drinking our blood," according to reporters present during the attack. The premier calmly responded, "Everything is being done for you and the future of your children." 
The attacker -identified by reporters as Unanian, an extreme nationalist and former journalist -opened fire. The other gunmen included Unanian's brother and uncle, the reporters said. 
The attack was likely to plunge Armenia into a major political crisis. The country, which became independent fol­lowing the 1991 Soviet col­lapse, has been plagued by political and economic turmoil for the past decade. 
President Clinton said he was shocked and saddened by the attack. 
"I condemn the senseless act against individuals actively engaged in building democracy in their country," Clinton said in a statement. 




Ita1lan/sicilian , ·----zTrattoria 
Din.Ing -.r,, ·-----, -,i;-'.· "t ~ 
, ; -, • • 1 '235 S. Michigan St. Preah prepared Q.Jn'ners, >')south Bend, IN 46601 Pizza, Beverages 219-233-1000
c,~7U 
Downtown South Bend~s Finest Italian Dining 
As you see it. is our two-party political system working? Want Reform? Work for Reform! Then vote for Reform! 
Reform Party seeking college volunteers, concerned voters, contributions, candidates, and the creation of an ND on-campus organization. Your participation & support is vital for Reform to occur. For details contact. N. W. Indiana Coordinator. 219-926-7576 State Party Chairman, 219-267-3434 or email; verp@waveone.net 
Irish Country Bed & Breakfast Registry 
"1fl~-u: ~'et ~ t:.w-e ei fda.ce ~ .it4tf... 
16901 Jackson Road South Bend Call: (219) 255-1516 Fax: (2 I9) 257-4193 
Web: www.irish country.com 

Thursday, October 28, 1999 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Monroe's dress goes for big bucks 
Britannica gets 10 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Marilyn Mourne's form-fit­ting, rl!'sh-colored drnss -a snquined stunner she wore to serenade !'resident Kennedy that still ll1fl jaws drnpping nearly 40 years later -sold Wednesday for a record $l.26 million. 
The drnss, worn by Monroe during her breathless "Happy Birthday, Mr. President" to JFK in 1962, was thn highest-priced itmn at llw f'irst session of a two-day Manhattan auction. 
The crowd cheered loudly when the winning bid, from the Manhallan-based Gotta !lave fl! Collnctibles. was announced. It set a new rncord for an auc­tioned drnss, obliterating tlrn $222,500 paid for an ink blue l'rinccss Diana gown sold in 1997. 
Asked why he spent a small fortune on the dress. company co-owner Hobert Schargin told reporters, "Becausu it wasn't $3 million. which we thought it was worth ... We stole it." 
lie bid $1.5 million; with the house commission, he paid $1,2(,7,500 
Buyers snapped up every­thing from her blue jeans and boots to screenplays, most at prices far beyond the predic­tions of auction house Christie's. Bikini bottoms were to be sold Thursday. The total take for some 50 items auc­tioned was $5,630,500. 
The bidding for the dress she barely wore at JFK's May 19, 1962, birthday cel!1bration at Madison Square Garden culmi­nated in a wild 2 1/2-minute showdown. Made of silk souflle gauze and covered with 6,000 rhinestone beads and sequins, the Jean Louis dress originally cost $12,000. 
Another dress -a full-length black sequined evening dress, believed to have been worn to ent1irtain U.S. soldiers in Korea in 1954 -sold for $112,000. Tho previous high price was $57,000 for a dress she wore in the 1953 lilrn "How to Marry a Millionaire." 
Dnsigner Tommy Ililfiger paid $42,550 for three pairs of Marilyn's jeans, and $85,000 for the cowgirl boots she wore in "The Misfits." 
'Tm inspinid by pop icons and pop culture," Hilfiger said. Tony Curtis, Monroe's co-star 

in "Some Like It Hot," sat in the front row as the auction opened. Actress Demi Moore was in a booth upstairs. 
A picture of Monroe auto­graphed by an assortment of her Hollywood co-stars includ­ing Gruucho Marx, Jimmy Stewart, Lauren Bacall, and Humphrey Bogart sold for $88,300. 
The first big-ticket item -a platinum eternity ring, encrust­ed with 34 baguette-cut dia­monds, given to Monroe by ex­husband Joe DiMaggio -sold for $772,500. The pre-sale esti­mate was $30,000 to $50,000. 
Bidding far outpaced what experts at Christie's had pre­dicted. A baby grand piano, once owned by Monroe's moth­er and reacquired by the actress years later, sold for $632,500; its pre-sale estimate was $10,000 to $15,000. 
Even a plaster floor lamp, estimated to sell between $2,000 and $4,000, sold for $21.850. The auction aired live on the American Movie Classics channel, and 1,200 people registered to bid. More than 100 telephone lines accommodated bidders who couldn't attend. 
million hits per day 
Associated Press 

CHICAGO 
For 10 million Internet surfers a day, a free Encyclopaedia Britannica apparently is worth waiting for. But for how long? 
One of the year's· most-tout­ed Internet sites remains clogged nine days after the debut of free online encyclo­pedias -brought to a virtual standstill by huge worldwide demand and insufficient hard­ware and software. 
Britannica.com Inc.• hoping to assuage the roughly 10 mil­lion people who have been trying daily to get into www.britannica.com, posted its third apology at the en trance to the blocked site Wednesday. The Chicago pub­lisher promised to make it accessible "soon." 
"Our teams have been busy unpacking crates, installing hardware, configuring soft­ware and boosting capacity worldwide," said the state­ment. describing a round-the­clock repair effort. 
But an executive acknowl­edged the problems will take weeks to fully fix. While many users should be able to get in by next week, redesigning the system to increase capacity several-fold will take longer, said Jorge Cauz, senior vice president for sales and mar­keting. 
The cyber troubles, at nine days and counting, have marred an innovation that had succeeded in drawing attention to the struggling publisher as it tries to shake its stodgy image and get with the electronic program. 
The company, which says only 100,000 people have managed to reach the site's first page, admits it underesti­mated the early public response. 
"No one in his right mind would have built an infra­structure capable of handling the initial demand we had," Cauz said. 
But analysts say the bottom line is poor planning. 
"For this to be your core site, you can't make. a mistake like. this," said Rob Enderle. a consultant for the Giga Information Group in Santa Clara, Calif. "If they were a startup company, we'd proba­bly be talking about them going out of business." 
Still, the rocky debut may not be harmful over the long haul because of Britannica's prestigious brand name. 
"I think consumers will give them a few more chances than they would some name­less, unheard-of Internet startup with a premature product launch," said Emily Meehan, analyst for the Boston-based Yankr.e Group. "There are too many educa­tional institutions out there that want to get their hands on a free Encyclopaedia Britannica that are willing to wait." 
The longer the tie-up lasts, the greater the chances that some would-be customers will vanish for good, she said. 
Sales of Britannica's printed sets have fallen off by an esti­mated 80 percent since peak­ing at about $650 million in 1990 as knowledge-seekers turn to computer versions, mostly Microsoft's Encarta program. 


HAIR MODELS NEEDED 
For Monday's Training Program by Licensed Professionals. Call for Information. 289-5080 
The Great Midwest Job & Internship Fair 

Friday, October 29, 1999, 10: am -3:00 pm Loyola University' Joseph J. Gentile Center 6525 N. Sheridan Rd. Chicago, IL 60626 
Don't Miss it! 
* 
Pre Registration deadline: October 22, 1999 

* 
Include Pre-registration fee of $10.00 

Resume & Pre-registration Fee may be mailed to: John Bradarich, Career Center, Loyola University 6525 N. Sheridan Rd.,Chicago, IL 60626 E-mail: Jbradar@luc.edu 

* 
If you do not pre-register you can walk in the day of the job fair. Admission fee for walk-ins. is $20. Bring 70 or more copies of your resume. 


* 
Literally hundreds ifjob opportunities in accounting,communitions, computer science, and social services are available. 

* 
Come interview with Chicago's top companies like; Bank One Corporation, Chicago Board of trade, Coca-Cola Bottling Co., Discover Financial Servjces, Enterprise Rent-A-Car, Experian, General Motors, Hispanic Alliance for Career Enhancement, Northern Trust Corp., and many more 


* 
For more information, check out our website: www.luc.edu/resources/career or call (773) 508-2874 

* 
Professional dress required. 



page 8 The Observer . ELECTION NEWS Thursday, October 28, 1999 
Bradley, Gore debate 
With that, members of the

Associated Press 
audience did. The first question was about
HANOVER, N.H. 
bipartisanship, and both
Pressed in campaign debate 
pledged to work with

about President Clinton's per­
Republicans and Democrats

sonal behavior, Vice President alike.
Al Gore said Wednesday night 
Gore said he would "buildthat he understood the public personal bridges" with both

disappointment and anger and 
parties.

sought to 
Bradley, like

provide "as 
"I understand the Gore a for­

much conti­mer senator,
nuity and disappointment and 
said, "It'scivilhy" as 

anger you felt toward 
about reach­

possible dur­
President Clinton. ing out to

ing the 
people."

Monica Ifeel it myself. ,, 
Only a few

Lewinsky 
moments intocontroversy. 

Al Gore the debate,
"He's ·mv 
Gore was
vice president

friend," Gore 
said of the president, fielding the first question from a voter in the first debate with campaign rival Bill Bradley. 
In the opening moments of the debate. Bradley touted his $65 billion plan for universal access to health insurance. He said the 44 million uninsured Americans present "a big prob­lem and it needs a big solution." 
Both men pledged to work for an overhaul of the campaign finance laws to reduce the role of big money. Gore, trying to fend off a surprisingly spirited challenge from Bradley's cam­paign, sought to take the offen­sive even before the television cameras were switched on. 
Onstage for introductions to the audience, the vice president turned to the audience and said: "What do we do now'? ... Why don't you start asking some question while we're waiting." 
asked about 
Clinton. 
"I understand the disappoint­ment and anger you felt toward President Clinton. I feel it myself," he said. 
The vice president added: "He's my friend. I took an oath under the Constitution to serve my country through thick and thin and I interpreted that oath to mean that I ought to try and provide as much continuity and civility ... as I possibly could." 
Gore also noted there were "some real hard fights" on eco­nomic and other issues at the time. 
Bradley sat on his stool listen­ing when Gore addressed what is likely to be a key issue in his bid to succeed Clinton in the Oval Office. 
The two men squared off before an audience of 500 at Dartmouth College. Members of the audience were selected by a lottery. 

Bradley leads in East 
Associated Press 
ALBANY, N.Y. 

While Al Gore has a hefty lead nationally over Bill Bradley, the vice president trails in the East in the race for the Democratic presidential nomination, a poll reported Wednesday. 
/\ separate national poll found Republican Sen. John McCain of Arizona running neck-and-neck with Gore in one possible general election matchup but trailing Bradley. 
"There's a large regional dif­ference in the support for Gore and Bradley," said Lee Miringoff, head of Marist College's Institute for Public Opinion. 
Nationally, the latest Marist 


poll found the vice president 
this week left the Republican

leading the former senator 
Party to run for president as afrom New Jersey, 49 percent to 

Reform Party candidate, is

32 percent. An April poll from 
added to general election

the Poughkeepsie-based Marist 
matchup, both Bradley andpollsters had Gore leading 

Gore cut Bush's lead in halfBradley, 59 percent to 25 per­

Gore and Bradley were to

cent. meet Wednesday night in New
But in the East, Miringoff said Hampshire for their first debatehis latest poll had Bradley, a of the campaign.

former star with the New York Miringoff said the new pollKnicks, leading Gore, 52 per­
also showed "Gore's fortunes

cent to 35 percent. Conversely, 
are very much tied to howGore, a former senator from Clinton is viewed." Among

Tennessee, led Bradley in the 
Democratic voters whoSouth, 58 percent to 19 per­

approve of the job Clinton is

cent. 
doing, Gore leads Bradley, 52In an NBC/Wall Street 
percent to 30 percent. ButJournal poll released 

with Democrats who don't likeWednesday, Gore led Bradley 

the president's work, Bradley

53 percent to 29 percent. In a 
leads, 4 7 percent to 26 per­

hypothetical matchup with GOP 
cent.

presidential front-runner 
In recent polls, Gore's earli­George W.. Bush, Gore was behind Bush·, 49 percent to 39 er leads 

over Bradley have percent. Bradley trailed Bush 
vanished in such crucial early primary states as New

by about the same margin. Hampshire and New York. 
When Pat Buchanan, who 

~fje <toffege ofcArts anb ;£etters 
in,,ites tfje unit)etsit_y communit_y to tfje presentation oftfje 1999 <Cfjarfes <E. <a,fjeeb!J cAwarb 8or <E1ceffence in ~eacfjing to Cf)rofessor Q)oug(as 5Kinse!J oftfjeSZ:,epartment ofo<\rt, cArt ~istor!J anb Q)esign. 
4 ~.rm. 8riba.Y, <Dcto6er 29tfj, cAnnen6erg cAubitorium oftfje E13nite ®useum 
Travel to exotic, distant lands; meet interesting, unusualpeople... 
And love them. 
Catholic Worker Urban Plunge 
J anuarv 2.-B, 2.000 

..,, 

Spend S days a+ a Ca+ho(ic Worker House of Hospita(i+v and find ou+ what i+ l\,eans +o Uve +he gost,e(s. 
Sites include Des Moines, Detroit, Phoenix. Los Angeles. Washington DC. and Houston. Applications, available in the Center for Social Concerns, arn due by October 29th• 


Thursday, October 28, 1999 
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 
page 9 

U.S. posts a record-setting budget surplus of $123 billion 

Mix it up with 1200 others from the Class of 2000 
TONIGHTand EVERY THURSDAYtor 
DO®@~lJ[1@[ru@D@ 
$1COVER 
(with college 1.0., must be 21)
COLLeGe nlGHT 
and lots of other stuff 

Associated Pre•s 
WASIIINGTON 

Al'ter dncades or deficit gloom, the United Slates post­Hd a record $123 billion feder­al budget surplus last year, marking llw f'irst back-to-back surplusns since Dwight EiscnhowPr was prosident. 
Tim good news announcn­mcnt -1ixccPding all esti­malns -sparked a battle !'or brngging rights Wednesday lrnlwcen the White House a n cl t lw He pu b I ica n -I o d Congress, with both sides hop­ing to map political dividends in nnxt y1iar's elections. 
Prnsidnnt Clinton said t\mnrica11 businnssns and 
A perfect meeting place throughout the weekend. 
Open Friday and Saturday D.iring 
N.D. Home Football Weekends. 
Evetyone Welcome 
Grilled Burge rs, Brats. and Other Specialties Cold Beverages & ~pirit!,; 60" Screen TV's Fully Endosed Tent 
ext to the N.D. Bookstore. .219-631-2000 
workers have benefited from 
lower interest rates, a shrink­
ing national debt and a grow­
ing pool of investment capital. 
"We have closed the book on deficits and opened the door on a now era of economic opportunity," Clinton said. The presidenl. battling Repub­licans over spending, accused thr, GOP of writing a budget that siphons $18 billion from the Social Security surplus. "That is wrong and it doesn't have to bn," he said. 
Hepublicans also claimed credit for the surplus. 
"This is what happens when Republicans take care of the gover·nment checkbook and hold tho line against tax hikes 

and more spending," said Rep. lion deficit. Bill A.reher, H-Tcxas., chair­Despite the two surpluses in man of the tax-writing House a row, the government still Ways and Means Committee. has a $5 trillion debt. 
The admin- The United  
i strati on  States  was  
acknowl­edged the 1999 surplus c a m e  "We have closed the book on deficits and opened the door on a new era of  plagued by a long string of budget deficits since  
entirely l"rom S o c i a I  economic opportunity."  1931 in the wake of the  
Security. The huge benefit  Bill Clinton  Depression and then  
program  is  president  World  War  

collecting more in pay­roll taxes than it is paying out in benelits. Without the Social Security cushion, the govern­ment would have had a $1 bit­
11. In all that 
time, there 
were only eight years of sur­
plus. The tide finally turned 
when the government broke 
into the black in 1998, and 
now the government projects 
surpluses far into the future. 

Democrats and Republicans 
have spent Social Security 
surpluses for decades but both 
have pledged this year to 
leave that money alone, trying 
to cast themselves as protec­
tors nf the massive pension 
program. 

Last year, before taking Social Security into account, the government had a $29.9 billion deficit but a $99.2 bil­lion Social Security surplus turned the overall def'icit into a surplus of $69.2 billion. 
With the onset of surpluses. the government has paid down the national debt by $140 bil­lion over the last two years, the largest debt reduction in Amorican history, Clinton said. 
Thn shrinking debt also has inr,ant lower interest costs f'or the governnrnnt, Clinton said. and more investment capital for businessos. 
llo said working families 

also have enjoyed lower intr,r­
es t rates. "It means $2,000 
less in home mortgage pay­
ments for the typical family," 
Clinton said, talking with 
reporters on the South Lawn 
as he lef't for an appearance 
on Capitol Hill. "It means $200 
less in car payments and $200 
less in college loan payments." 
However, interest rates and 
mortgage rates have been ris­
ing in recent months as the 
Federal Hcserve has tightened 
credit in an effort to slow the 
economy and light inflation. 
The $123 billion surplus in 
fiscal 1991J was almost twice 
the size of' the previous year's. 
It also was the largest ever in 
nominal terms and the largnst 
since 1951 as a pnrcentage of 
gross domestic product. The 
1998 and 1999 figures markod 
the first two consecutive years 
of surplus since 1956-57. 
The administration said Clinton set the nation on a path of delicit reduclion when he pushed a package of tax increases and spmuling cuts through Congress in 199:{ -a move that was opposed by every Hepublican llouse and Scnatn momber. 
The campaign got morn monrnntum from the l 9<J7 bal• ancnd budget act supportnd by the White llousP and Congress. 
To support its case, the administration notc~d that last year's surplus was the s«wenth straight ynar of' budget improvcH1wnts since tlrn deficit peaknd at $290 billion in 1992. Tho sev!'n-year slrin!-{ is tlrn longnst series of budget improvenwnts in tlrn nation's 
history. 
SOUTH BEND'S BIGGEST PARTY for a buck, too. -n More pictures online every week at www.ACEpJaces.com/heartland 222 s. Michigan• South Bend. (219) 234-5200 Call the Heartland Concert & Event Line (219) 251-2568 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE page 10 BSERYER Thursday, October 28, 1999 
THE OBSERVER 
1'.0. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Nam Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Michelle Krupa 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAG.liR  
M. Shannon Ryan  David Rogero  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  
Laura Perdle  

NllWS EDITOR: Tim Logan V1EW!'OINT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughen SroRTS EmTOR: Brian Kessler 

SCENE EDITOR: Michael Vanegas SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Oalum 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Bryan Lutz 
An DESIGN MANAGER: Brei Huelar SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers Wm ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kushro 
CONTROLLER: Timothy Lane 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 

CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGF.RIGENERAL lNF0 .............. 631-7471 FAx............................................................. 631-6927 ADVERTISING.................................... 631-6900/8840 
observer@daiwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF.. ...................................... 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/Assr. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE.. ...................................... 631-5313 NEWS......................................... ,................631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VtEWPOINT................................................. 631-5303 observer .vicwpoi nt. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................63 1-4543 observer.sportll. l@nd.edu Sr.ENE......................................................... 631-4540 o6scrvcr.scene. I@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S............................................. 631-4324 
observer.smc. I@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................ 631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS................. 631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire ar http://obsemer.ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as canoons, review; and breaking news from rhe Associared Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for

weather for up-ro-the 
minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 

advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
cial campt1s coverage

and rates ofprim ads 
about The Observer

archives co search for 
co meet the cdirors and 

articles published ati:er 
staff

Augusr 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the inckpenJent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of rhe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeither insritmion. Acting as pub­lisher ofThe Observer, rhe administration ofthe University of Notre Dame du Lac prohibits the adver­risemenr ofalcohol and The Observer's acceptance of adveni;emenrs from specified rypes of groups. 
The news is reported as accurately and objecrively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of rhe Ediror in Chief, Managing Editor, Assisram Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present rhe views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The fr~e expression of all opinions through lerrers is encouraged. 
Qurstiom regarding Observerpolicies should be dirtct· ed to FAitor in ChiefMichelle Krupa. 

Your neighbor takes your family hostage. You've learned he is going to rob a bank, but he warns you that if you call the police, your family will die. 
What do you do? 
You call the 

Gabriel
bank, alert them, 

Martinez
and ask them to keep your name 

like arrows in
secret. You offer your van to help. the hands But if you are ofa warrior humble, you don't go to the newspa­pers saying what a big hero you are. 
This is the situation of Pope Pius XII during the Second World War. He knew what was going on with the Jews. He arranged for and encouraged their res­cue, saving as many Jewish lives as he could. But he could not yell condemna­tions to the four winds. He had a family to take care of: the millions of Catholics in Europe -and tlrn Jews themselves. 
His predecessor, Pope Pius XI, had published the encyclical "Mit brennen­dcr Sorge" ("With Burning Anxiety") in 1937, condemning the evil of the Nazi regime. It was secretly published in German and read from all the pulpits of Germany. The consequences were frightening, as the Nazis impris.oned priests. persecuted lay Catholics and stepped up their hostility against the Jews. 
The Nazis eventually proved that jails could seem pleasant compared to geno­cide. Although many deny it, many Catholics all over Europe helped the Jews, following orders from the pope. Was Pius XII to hinder their saving work and endanger his own Church by noisily condemning Hitler? Research leaves no doubt that wherever the Catholic hierarchy protested ofilcially against the Nazis, the unintended result was that a greater proportion of Jews was killed. It is one thing to be a martyr. It is very different to play hero and send millions to martyrdom. 
Would the horrible beast that was Hitler have spared a single Jewish life because of a papal condemnation? Nazis responded to criticism with tor­ture and bloodshed. All that a condem­nation would have earned Pius XU was the applause of those who comfortably read the paper in their homes. This was clear in the pope's lifetime, so ho never had to officially defend himself. 
The pope did what he had to do: He made it clear that Nazism was anti­Christian and worked quietly to save as many Jewish lives as he could. 
A now book has come out on this old topic, interpreting the pope's (prudent) silence as complicity. Even readers who are not sympathetic to the Catholic Church are exposing it for what it is: a pile of lies. It takes a bit of the truth, mixes it with a lot of imagination, spices it with dramatic language and presents it as the whole truth. Notre Dame is used to this kind of journalism. We are used to incendiary rhetoric, based on very little evidence. There are some journalists, of course, who care­fully research facts and expose alarm­ing realities. But all too often, bad jour­nalists (purposefully?) ignore the evi­dence that would disprove their agenda and make accusations with little logic and less honestv. 
What about Pius XII? 

Fact: The Chief Rabbi of Rome was at least as well informed -and indignant -as the pope about the plight of the Jews. Doubtlessly. Israel Zolli heard thfl Pope's "silence." Doubtlessly, whatever Catholic complicity there was, he was aware of' it. So what did he do after the war while trials for crimes against humanity were going on'? 
lie exposed the pope for what he was -a Nazi-phile, right? Wrong. The most important Jew in Home became Catholic. He embraced the religion that, supposedly, was out to get him. He did not do this out of fear -the Nazi terror is long dead; he can be a Jew now. Ho did it out of convir.tion in the Catholic faith and out of admiration for the love shown to his people by Catholics during the war. Moreover, when he converted, Israel Zolli became Eugenio Zolli, in honor of Pope Pius XII, who had been baptized Eugenio Pacelli. 
For years, the Holy See was flooded with the gratitude of the Jewish com­munity for the pope and tho bishops acting under his command. When Pius XII died, Golda Meir, primp minister of Israel, said that "when fearl'ul martyr­dom came to our people, the voice of the Pope was rais(id for its victims." It took a theater play by a former Hitlerian Youth to start the process of defamation against Pius XII -to those Jews the play was an evident lie. 
Is Eugenio Zolli's conversion surpris­ing? Well, it is from our point of view because we have heard all the accusa­tions. But it was not surprising for a Jew who had seen many of his brothers and sisters saved by the generosity and the boldness of one of the most coura­geous and slandered popes of this cen­tury -Pope Pius XII. 
Gabriel Xavier Martinez is a gradu­ate student in economics. His column appears every other Thursday. 
The views expressed in lhis column are those ofthe author and not rzeces­sarily those of The Observer. 
DILBERT 
IT TAKES YEARS OF TRAINING TO BE AN ENGINEER.. 


SCOTT ADAMS 
E 
0 
tJ 
0
.. 
@)
., 
E 
,,m 
m 
i:: 
0 
.,tJ 
E 
0 
(.J 
t 
Ill 
.c 
=c 
~ 
;::
;:: 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"My doctrine is this: If we see cruelty or wrong that we have the power to stop. and do nothing, we make ourselves sharers in the guilt." 
Anna Sewell 
author, "Black Beauty" 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 
Thursday, October 28, 1999 BSERYER page 11 
Let us make our own 
health decisions 

I don't smokn. 
I havo nnver smokml. In l'acL. I havP had a dP<qJ-rootod antipathy to smoking sincn birth. I was thn kind of kid who w11uld IPc­
Nakasha

t11rn adults about tlw Ahmad dangt\rS of smoking 
So, what's

and how it 
my point?

can causn 
CllllePI'. 
Whm1 I was 'J years old, I was furious with my father b,irnusP lw smokml ONCF. (I In's not a smokPr -I don't ovon think lll''s pickml up a cigardte since tlwn.l In my book, smoking is practically up tlwrn as the l:ighth D1\adly Sin. 
So, mil of' all tho people at Saint Mary's, you would think that I would b,\ tlw one person in l"avor of tlw new anli-smok­ing proposal that will be enact­ml latn this ynar. This new plan would ess1~ntially makn SMC a smokn-frnn ram pus. Smoking would not Im allowed in any of tlw rnsid,mce halls or in thn classroom buildings. Smoknrs would havn to go out­sidP to light up tlwir cigarettes, nvnn in tlw winter. 
Tlw rnasoning behind this rww plan is admirable. Tim n1ason for implemnnting it is that smoking, in case you haven't h,mrd, is not exactly the best method you can think of to prolong life: Tim plan is int1mdnd to pronrnte student h,!alth. And student health is a good thing. 
Ilowever, though the inten­tions are good, this plan is symptomatic or a trnnd that is popping up all ovnr the U.S. Everywhere more laws and ruins arn bPing made that force us to healthy and safe. We need to bn healthy and safo, and by God, we will be, by hook or by crook -or by law. Whether we want to be or not. 
For example, California passed a law a few years ago that bannnd smoking in bars. I umlerstand outlawing smoking on airplane !lights. Or having separate smoking and non­smoking snclions in restau­rants. But bars'? It's OK if you die from cirrhosis of' the liver or kill somnbody driving home, but dcm't you dare get lung cancer or nxpose others to a miniscule amount or carcino­gons. I understand that the ban in part would be to not expose non-smokers to second-hand smokn, but the chances that you're going to got lung cancer from a chance 1mcounter with sornPonn else's cigarette are infinitely small. 
And as we all know, practi­cally every statP in tlw nation has passed scatbdt laws. If you're not wearing your seat­bdt, then you can get ti.cki:terl and linml. Now, you can get pllllnd over just for a seatbelt violation. In anotlwr innovation to driver and passenger safety, air bags wore installnd to make it safor for people who got into car accidents -and much LESS safor for small and short 1wopln (like mnl. some of whom lmvn been killed from airbags. But we can't switch the airbag off, because if we did it would be "unsafe." 
In aclditinn, a campaign is afoot nationally to tax fast food and junk food bflcause tlwy are unhealthy. Thn niasoning is that if Big Macs, Whoppnrs and Skittlns were taxnd, fower peo­ple would consume them and, tlrnrcforc, they would be healthier. 
The goal of having a healthy pupulatiun is an admirable one, but thcrr is nothing in tlw Constitution about legislating health. llcalth is a personal issue. Laws that rcquirn baby seats and safety mewmrcs for children are reasonable and undcrstandabll!, because chil­dren are minors who ean't proporly take care of their own needs and thus have to be taken care ol' by others. To r1equire the caretakers to pro­tect children is reasonable. But laws shouldn't be passed to l'orcc responsibln, intelligent adults to be healthy. 
Cerlainly, the goal ol' health for all peopln is a worthy one. But legislating it leads to a slip­pery slopn because it can pro­vide a justification for the tak­ing away of' so many l'rnndoms "for our own good." If I want to indulge in the greasiness or a Big Mac (and I frequently do), I should be allowed to do so without having to pay a penalty for my weakness to the govern­ment. 
The legal age for smoking is 
18. Bv the time we are 18, most of us ~ho are smokers have alrnady started, so the proposal will probably stop very few people from starting. But it will prohibit those who do smoke from bning able to smoke. It is important to provide places for smokers to smoke in pnace, and for non-smokers to breathe in peace. However, to ban smoking from a campus altogether seems to be a rather extreme move. Each building could have one lounge in which smoking would be allowed so that smokers wouldn't have to go outside in 10-degree weath­er. North lounge in Regina, the Vendolands in McCandless and LeMans and one of the lounges in Holy Cross could be desig­nated as "smoking spaces." 
We am in college now, and we are old enough to make decisions about our health. A college or university's first mis­sion should not be tu promote students' health, but to educate them and to treat them like adults so that they can make responsible decisions when they are in the "real world." 
Legislating health or other bnhaviors should not be the job of outside ruins and laws. People should be free to make those decisions thcmsrlves. 
Nakasha Ahmad is a senior al Saint Mary's College. Iler column appear.'/ every other Thursday. 
The views expressed in this column o(those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Awareness march a success 
I am writing this letter to may choose to go on our cam­recognize and thank all ol' the pus, particularly the woods. womcm and men who helpied lo Although the women's move­make Saint Mary's "Take Back ment has evolved by leaps and the Woods" a success. bounds within 1:he last centurv, 
I am deeply grateful lo the the quest for equality has b()e·n Feminist Collective, the YWCA. paralyzed by such simple Dr. Catherine Pittman and Dr. things as our fear or walking Susan AIPxander for all of their alone at night or our fear of support in making it possible. running alone in the woods. This march was dedicated Lo We need to take back our all of the victims or sexual rights and freedoms of going assault and domestic violence where we please and doing who have survived and lived to what we please without fear or educate others about their looking over our shoulder. experience. The march ended I feel very lucky to have been Saint Mary's Pride Week and a part of this liberating occa­kicked off the YWCA's Week­sion, yet I hope that in the Without-Violrmcc on Ortobor future generations to come 
10. there will not be a need for 
Not only was this a chance to such an event. voice nur support for these vic­tims, but it was also a chance Sara Salazar for the women or Saint Mary's President to reclaim our land and our Femi11is1 Collective right to feel safe wherever we October 27, 1999 

Crawford is the embarrassment 
Well, here we go again -only at Notre Dame could the two main topics of conversation and debate consistently be football and homosexual­ity. Mary Crawford's Oct. 15 letter to the editor did nothing if not contribute to my disbelief that there am still seemingly intelligent, educated people out there in the world (other than Jerry Falwell) who continue to believe homosexuality is immoral and somehow un-Catholic. 
She stated that as a Saint Mary's student she takes pride in her Catholic teachings, values and morals and that she has been taught to live as a "true" Catholic all her life. It is obvious though, that she is not informed of the "true" teachings of the Catholic Church on the issue of homosexuali­ty. Her argument appears to reduce down to the basic form of "being gay equals being immoral." Or, more accurately perhaps, "encour­aging people who are gay to come out to their family and friends and no longer be ashamed of who they are equals being immoral." 
Her substantia­tion to these claims seems to come from the Catholic nature of our institutions and these "true" Catholic teachings. How many times do we have to go over this, people; I mean, really. After what seems like hundreds of letters to The Observer and countless clarifications and rcclarifications on this issue, you'd think that everyone on our campuses would know what the Church's stance on homosexuality is. 
The Church does not believe that homosexu­ality is immoral, but that homosexual acts are. The Church encourages homosexuals to live a celibate life and believes they should be sup­ported and loved in their struggles. The Church has even suggested that homosexuals do not necessarily choose their way of life. To reiter­ate, according to the Catholic Church, homosex­
uality is not immoral! Therefore, encouraging 
those who are homosexual to b() "loud and 
proud" cannot bn considered immoral. This of 

course calls into serious question the 
University's ban on GALA ads and exclusion of 
sexual orientation from the non-discrimination 
clause, but that's for another letter. As for her insightful words of wisdom that being gay isn't the only way to be happy ­somehow I doubt that the writers of the sign "Be Gay, Be Happy" were implying that being gay is, in fact, ~ the only true path to enlighten­, ment. National Coming Out Day is about encouraging homosexuals who are ashamed of or hiding a significant aspect of their lives to talk to their friends and fami­lies about their feel­ings. This openness could lead tc, increased happiness on their part, if the people they come out to are accepting and supportive (as "true" Catholics shnuld be). Advertising National Coming Out Day in the manner that she objected to is merely a means in which to show this support and raise awareness. Frankly, I was embarrassed, just as Miss Crawford was. lier letter came out (ah, no pun intonchid) on a football weekend -who knows how many alumni, parents and visi­tors read The Observnr that day. 1am embarrassed that those people might think that all students who at.tend Notre Dame and Saint Mary's might be as uninformed and seem­ingly narrnw-minded as Miss Crawford. 
Julie Fahey Senior Farley Hall 0cmber I6, I 99') 


O
THE 
page 12 BSERVER Thursday, October 28, 1999 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Scorsese magically brings dead to life 
eyes burn, flame out. He erupts then cools. 
By JOHN CRAWFORD 
Cage's performance is anchorfld by an Scene Movie Critic excellent supporting cast including John Goodman, Ying Rhames and Tom In "Bringing Out the Dead," a master Sizemore, the three of whom play Pierce's director takes moviegoers on a tour partners. The film is also well-scripted by through madness and salvation -a terri­Paul Schrader, who has written past tory he knows well. Scorsese projects like "Raging Bull" and Martin Scorsese's "The Last driving and searing Temptation of
"Bringing Out the 

!ilm, probably his best Christ," and is beau­since 1990's tifully shot by Robert "Goodfcllas," follows Dead" Richardson. New York City para-For much of the medics into a hellish 
movie, Cage is cov­world filled with drug ered in white light, overdoses. gunshot like an angel of the wounds and over­street searching for
out of five shamrocks 

crowded hospitals. lives to save. 
In many ways, Unfortunately for "Bringing Out the Director: Martin Scorsese Cage and his fellow Dead" is a return for paramedics, howev­
Starring: Nicolas Cage, John

Scorsese to the world er, there aren't many 
of "Taxi Driver." Goodman, Patricia Arquette and Ving to rescue. Patients Much like the classic Rhames are too shot up, too movie's Travis Bickle, far gone. The city is a the paramedics roam slaughterhouse. In a Photo courtesy of Paramount Pictures 
through a night filled with hookers, neon sense, the paramedics are guardian angels Nicholas Cage stars as burned-out paramedic Frank Pierce in the Martin lights and rising steam. Like Bickle, they vvith no one to help and no one to protect. Scorsese film "Bring Out the Dead." are isolated and frustrated loners looking The movie linds Scorsese very much at for some surt of redemption on the street. the top of his game. The film's ambulance 
either meant to sell soundtracks or cue Some of tlw scenes, in particular thoseInstead of ultimately taking lives, however, sequences, which crackle with humor and 
audience reactions. If there's a happy between Cage and Patricia Arquctt!~. whothey are trying to saV!! them. tension, are among the best scenes scene. they play a happy song. If it's a sad plays the daughter of a victim Pierce saves, For Nicolas Cage, who plays burned-out Scorsese has ever done, which says a lot occasion, they play something depressing. seem sluggish and sometimes flat. Tlwirparamedic Frank Pierce, "Bringing Out the considering that he is arguably America's Scorsese's musical choices, however, are slowness, perhaps meant to offer reliefDead" also represents a return -a return finest working director. The paramedics much more subile and add meaning and from the chaos of the paramedics' nights,to worthwhile filmmaking. Thankfully leav­drink alcohol and crave colTee. They br,at resonance to the picturn. As the ambu­conflicts with the rest of the movie. Theying behind the world of bad action flicks up patients and break car windows with lance rockets through the city, Martha and force a roller coaster ride to a screechinglike "8 mm" and "Snake Eyes," he gives a baseball bats. They praise Jesus and flirt the Vandellas' "Nowhere to Run" plays on halt.
performance that is at least as good as his with hookers and their dispatcher. These the soundtrack. Normally a peppy Motown "Bringing Out the Dead," however,Oscar-winning turn in "Leaving Las are men on the edge, if not over it. In many song, it transforms the scene and takes on should contend for best picture come Oscar 
Vegas." ways, they are reminiscent of the 
new meaning, coming to suggest the trap time -maybe even win -especially con­Cage's strength as an actor is playing "Goodfellas" gangsters. In just seconds, the city, hospitals and the paramedics' jobs sidering that Academy voters may feelcharacters who arc off-balanced and their laughter can give way to violence, have become. Indeed, Cage and his cohorl'i sympathy for Scorsese, who amazingly hasexplosive. These attributes are greatly on their calmness to chaos. 
have nowhere to run. never won the award. While it is certainlydisplay in "Bringing Out the Dead." Even Scorsese's choice of music is first­Still, something holds the movie back too early to know how everything will
Throughout the film, his face fills with rate. Too often, today's !ilmmakers fill their from joining the ranks of Scorsese master­shake out, "Bringing Out the Dead" coulddarkness and need and resignation. His movies with obvious musical selections pieces like "Raging Rull" and "Goodfellas." very well bring home the Oscar. 
VIDEO PICK OF THE WEEK 
Ne'W Year's Eve 1999: It's a 'strange day,' eh? 
al pleasure. Not to mention, Fiennes simply looks 
By GUNDER KEHOE 
cool in the film as he hustles the city in his cyber­Scene Movie Critic 
outfits and sleek Mercedes. Fiennes assumes an ele­ment of mystery while exuding a quiet vulnerability. 
Welcome to Los Angeles 1999 and feast your mind 
Bassett has the biggest arms of any actress out on the drug of the future. No longer do humans fool there, and she successfully portrays the toughest around with pills and powdery substances: the nar­characer in the movie. As Faith, Lewis sings badly, cotics have gone digital. Just connect a small but her look is dead-on for the aspiring rock star. recorder to your brain and play back any human The sequences of the memory drug are relentless. experience ever captured on disc. The camera mimics a single take and bolts around 
This is the frenetically like a charged electron. Each of these 
''Strange Days" world of "Strange clips are entirely point-of-view so the viewer is Days," a cyber­thrust into the eyes of the drug-user and transport­thrille r from ed into the picture. 
Director: Kathryn Bigelow Kathryn Bigelow Bigelow's L.A. paints a setting so ripe with ten­("Point Break") sion, it's an ideal backdrop for a movie set on New
Starring: Ralph Fiennes, Angela 
that packs so Year's Eve 1999. It's a claustrophobic melting potBassett, Juliette Lewis and Tom much energy anrl of every culture, race and lifestyle. When Lennyvisual flare it will roams the streets, there's never a feel of open space
Sizemore 
feel like lightning and every city-dweller is feisty like rats i.n a cage. struck your eyes. The New Year's bash embraces every nation giv­
Ralph Fienncs is Lenny Nero, an ex-cop who ped­ing the sense that cities of the future will be shared dles the digital drug on the streets of L.A. On Dec. by people of every nationality. Also, warm neon 31, 1999, the eve of the millenium, Nero is slipped a lights bathe Los Angeles and visualize this new 
memory that capturns the brutal killing of a young cyber-punk era. All these elements collide to intr,n­
Photo courtesy of 20th Century Fox 
a

brunette. Lenny's investigation takes him to sify not only Lenny's journey but all the questions
Angela Bassett and Ralph Fiennes star in "Strange
crooked record producer who holds the socrot surrounding the millennium.
Days," a cyber-thriller set in Los Angeles at the end
behind the execution of a black rap artist. The movie can be overly preachy about race rela­Lenny joins Mace (Angela Bassett), a bodyguard of the millennium. tions, and the pairing of' Feinnes and Bassett feels 

for hire, and Max Peltier (Tom Sizemore), a working private oye, to find the perpetrators who committed and recorded the killings. The trio dodges lrigger­happy policemen while trying to save Lenny's ex­girlfriend, Faith (Juliette Lewis), from the whole web of deception. The climax finally detonates amidst the chaotic New Year's bash attended by a madhouse of wild citizens. 
The murder mystery within "Strange Days" is watchable but the supporting fabric is what makes tlrn f'ilm memorable. The concept behind recorded memories and getting higl1 off emotions as well as the atmosphere of' L.A. make "Strange Days" a visu­like a gimmicky way to mend racial tensions. Rut it's an electric picture nonetheless. "Strange Days" is a slick thriller and at its core there exists unpar­alleled atmosphere and viable questions concerning the start of the next millennium. 

cene E 
OTHE 
Thursday, October 28, 1999 BSERVER page 13 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Pitt and Norton fight for right to emote 
By GUNDER KEHOE 
Sc~nc Movie Critic 
Question: What do you get wlwn you mix nitroglyc­tirin with sodium nitratP and add a pinch of saw­dust'! 
i\nsw,ir: llynamiL11. 
Tln'n stir in tlw dark vision of' director David Fint'hnr t"SnvPn"), acid Edward Norton and Brad Pitt a11d whut yu11 gPl is 'Tight Clul.J," the cinematic 1•quiva.lP11 l of TNT. 
"Fight Club" might hf' till' darkest, most depressing movil' you'll evor s(•11. But it's also an explosive mas­t1•rpit~c1'. Bas11d on tlw subvm·sivr novel by Chuck l'nlahniuk, tlw moviti tukes everything audioncos arc supposnd to hnlinvn and boldly states tho opposite. It's ahoul. rnodPrn man lining Pmasculalod by con­summ· soci1\Ly, dPvoting his lifo to products he donsn't 1wnd and goals lrn'II nnvm achi1wu. lie nends an outll't and "Fight Cluh" is the satirical society 
wlwrc nxtrenrn 

violence is the"Fight Club" only means of 
restoration. 


Edward 
Norton plays 
.lack, a man so 

0111 offive shamrocks numb ho's lost 
every ounce of' 
feeling in his 

Director: David Fincher body. Insomnia 
]naves Jack Starring: Brad Pitt, Edward Norton, plodding zom-Helena Bonham Carter and Meat Loaf b i n -I i k n through his daily routi1w whilt\ consurrn\rism has him concerned with what kind ol' dining snl di,fines him as a per­
Sotl. 
llis sPart:h !'or nnrntion finally gives way to tears al a canl·nr support group where crying in the brnasts of' a !'at man. Bob (Mr.at-Loan. signals a rev­elatnry f\Xperience: Only when Jack pretends he's cnce winces at every punch. The participants' admire Pitt. Together, the two personalities pack on tlw vergH ol' c!Hath and losr.s all hopn can he l'eHI cheeks and noses aren't caved in for the thrill of quite a punch. Bonham Carter is grim and sexy nmotion. Tht>rn goes Jack, assuming phony identities destruction, but rather to show how far these men while Meat Loaf" is convincingly emotional and to altend nrnnlings ol' Urn terminally ill for a quick !ix will go for an inkling of emotion. For the members of pathetically funny. 
of fotding. llis cum doesn't last long when along Fight Club, pain is better than no feeling at all. "Fight Club" is complicated material and Fincher conws Marla (llelnna Bonham Cartt1r), who ruins Tyler escalates his club into Project Mayhem, an knows it inside and out. Every frame and each spo­ovNything. organized onslaught against all objects that ken line reads with subtext that plays to the film's 
Marla. tlrn pale. smoke-breathing "tourist" is like shouldn't matter in life: computers, corporate art, secret, twisted reality, Fincher employs a world of Jack, l'aking IHir disease lo lose all hope. Jack, how­Volkswagen Beatles. Tyler's final apocalyptic vision techniques to tell his story with stunning effect. He cvnr. cannot cry with another faker like Marla in his is to bomb the high-rise buildings that house credit­balances bleak humor, multiple themes, flashbacks, midst, so he gracluatns to rougher solutions. card companies. It all plays into his master plan of hallucinations, to say nothing of his visual wizardry. 
On a business !light, Jack is seated next to soap­chaos and reducing everything to nothing. Even Jack One minute, the camera is swimming through Jack's making anarchist, Tyler Durden (Brad Pitt). Durden thinks Tyler has gone too far with his commitment to brain tissue, and the next, it's lurking in a wastebas­is rwcrything Jack isn't and everything he wants to losing all hope. Tyler and Jack brawl it out, and by ket filled with Krispy Creme garbage. become. Tyler is anti-establishment. Tyl11r can make the end, Jack is sucking on a pistol barrel with a The movie demands a lot from its viewers and bombs, and bnst of" all, Tyler has dcvisod Fight Club, l"ront-row seat to mass destruction. when the film ends, each viewer is left in a daze of a place whern fominiz1!d men like Jack mcet their Pitt has tossed the fluff aside and found a role that ideas. But it's only moments until this daze crystal­Cllrt!. suits him perfectly. This is his best performance to lizes and forces the viewer to realize "Fight Club" is 
It's a secrnt society where they can shed their date and his quirky nuances will keep anyone chuck­genius. Fincher serves up a platter of rebellion in a shirts and shol\S, beat each othei· senseless and ling. Everyone calls Norton the best actor of his gen­darkly comedic and energetic movie. See it once, see finally fo1d likn men. eration, and "Fight Club" does everything to support it twice, see it as many times as possible." Fight 
Tlwrn's brutal violencc in Fight Club, and the audi-this claim. Norton is the perfect sleepless drone to Club" only gets better. 

Box OFFICE 

"The Best Man," starring Taye Diggs and Nia Long, came in at the No. 1 spot at the weekend box office, earning $9 mil­lion. The fllm beat out other new films "Bringing Out the Dead" and "Bats," both which still debuted in the top 
10. Box office No. 2 "Double Jeopardy" continues its climb to $100 million, show­ing that poorly-reviewed films can succeed during the fall movie season. 
Photo courtesy of Universal Pictures 
1. 
2. 3. 4. 
5. 
6, 7. 8. 9. 10. 

22-24 

Weekend Sales Total Sales 
... $ 9.0 million $ 9.0 million $ 7.6 million $ 91.0 million $ 6.3 million $ 21.9 million $ 6.2 million $ 6.3 million 
$ 5.4 million $ 17 .8 million $ 5.2 million $ 48.6 million $ 4.7 million $ 4.7 million $ 4.4 million $ 4.4 million $ 4.3 million $ 50.1 million $ 4.1 million $ 255.5 million 
lnformalion from Yahoo 

Movie Title 
The Best Man Double Jeopardy Fight Club Bringing Out the 
Dead The Story of Us American Beauty Bats Three to Tango Three Kings The Sixth Sense 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, October 28, 1999 
WORLD SERIES 

Led by CleIDens, Yankees sweep Braves in World Series 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK The Rocket can rest now. The ring is his. 
Roger Clemens pitched the New York Yankees to their second straight World Series sweep, shutting down the Atlanta Braves 4-1 Wednesday night and ending his quest for tho one and only prize that eluded him. 
With raucous fans waving yellow, plas­tic brooms all over the ballpark and Clemens bouncing around on the mound, the Yankees won their record 25th championship. Game 4 marked New York's 12th Series victory a row, match­ing the mark set by its Murden~rs' Row teams. 
Clemens waited his entire career for this moment and, at last, commanded the October stage. 
Showing the form that earned him live Cy Young Awards and 247 wins in 16 seasons, Clemens shut out Atlanta into the eighth to outduel John Srnoltz 
Brought to the Bronx this spring from Toronto in a trade for IJavid Wells that many Yankees fans disliked, CIC'mens walked off the mound to rousing cheers. tipping his cap and holding both hands high to acknowledge the ovation. 
Mariano Rivera who had two saves and a win in the Series was selected as MVP. 
The Yankees finished off a week in which they simply overwhelmed the club that had best record in the majors, and accomplished a lot more along the way they: 
-Became baseball's first repeat cham­pion since Toronto in 1992-93. 
-Posted the first set of consecutive Series sweeps since the Yankees in 1938­39. 
-Completed an incredible run in which they won 18 of 19 postseason games. The only loss came when Clemens was beaten by Pedro Martinez at Fenway Park 11 days earlier. 
-Overcame a year of adversity, which began with manager Joe Torre's prostate cancer in spring training and included the death of outfielder Paul O'Neill's father early Wednesday. 
-And, in the last game of the 20th century, their all-century team pitcher ended all debate about which club was most dominant this decade. 
For Atlanta, the loss was its record­tying eighth straight in the Series, a string that began in 1996 against the Yankees. It surely was a bitter disap­pointment for the Braves and manager Bobby Cox. 

After winning the title in 1995, they had "Team of the 90s" engraved on their rings. Instead, they joined the New York Giants of 1910-19 as the only teams ever to lose four World Series in a decade. 
Clemens and the sellouL crowd of 56,7.'i2 fans, meanwhilA, baskAd in pin­striped glory after taking an early 3-0 lead. 
At 37. he won his first championship ­John Elway was the same age when he won his first Super Bowl. 
Featuring a fastball in the mid-90s mph, Clemens struck out four and walked two in his first World Series vic­tory -he got two no-decisions in 1986 when his Boston Red Sox blew ii against the New York Mets. 
Smoltz struck out three to avoid trouble in the second inning, but could nut escape in tlrn third. Chuck Knohlauch and Derck Jeter opened with singles and a one-out intentional walk to Bernie Williams loaded the bases. 
Tino Martinez followed with a. hard grounder and, perhaps scre,rned by Williams, first baseman Ryan Klesko let the ball skip off his forearm fur a two-run single. With two outs, Jorge Posada hit an RllI single. 
That was plenty for Clemens, who took a two-hit shutout into the eighth. The Braves then nicked him with singles by Walt Weiss and Gerald Williams, and Jeff Nelson relieved. 
After Bret Boone hit an RBI single, Rivera took over and kept the Braves from doing any more damage. I-le got Chipper Jones on a grounder with run­ners at the corners to end the inning, and pitched a scoreless ninth. 
Rivera ended this season with 43 
scoreless innings, and extended his post­
season shutout streak to 25 2-3 innings. 
As if for good measure, pinch-hitter 
Jim Leyritz launched a solo home run in 
the New York eighth off Terry 
Mulholland. Remember, it was Leyritz's 
homer off Atlanta relief ace Mark 
Wohlers in Game 4 in 1996 that turned 
the momentum in the Yankees' favor. 
Never has a team overcame an 0-3 
deficit in the postseason, and the 
Yankees made sure it did not happen this 
time. 

Clemens, often a victim of his high 

New York Yankees swarm the mound as a 4-1 win over Atlanta gave the Yankees their 25th world series win of the century. 
emotions in big games, jogged to the mound a full minute after his teammates took the field to start the night. Third baseman Scott Brosius and Jeter came in to oITer words of encouragement before the first pitch. 
The fans were with Clemens the whole way, standing up after he got two strikes on leadoff man Williams. Clemens fin­ished the job, fanning Williams, and pumped his fist after retiring Jones on a grounder to end the first. 
Clemens spent the rest of the game shouting to his fielders and offering con­gratulations. In the eighth, he was on the receiving end. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid.
CLASSIFIEDS 

The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edir all classifieds for content without issuing refunds . 
... 
NOTICES 
THE COPY SHOP 
Lafortune Student Center PHONE 631-COPY 
www.CopyShopND.com Store Hours Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm Sat: Noon-6:00pm Sun: Noon-Midnight FREE TRIPS AND CASH!!! 
SPRING BREAK 2000 StudentCity.com is looking for Highly Motivated Students to pro• mote Spring Break 2000 ! Organize a small group and travel FREE!!Top campus reps can earn a Free Trip & over $10,000!Choose Cancun, Jamaica or Nassau! Book Trips On-Line. Log In and win FREE stuff. Sign Up Now On Line! www.StudentCity.com or 800/293-1443 
Browse icpt.com tor Springbreak "2000". ALL destinationsLOST & FOUND offered.Trip Participants.Student 
Orgs & Campus Sales Reps want-Found on Howard Street, 1 ·2 years ad.Fabulous parties.hotels & ago, 1 damaged grey slide carousel prices.Call Inter-Campus 800-327· with religious art/sites slides from 6013 Europe/Israel,+ personal pictures.Contacl me at 284-5552. Loving ND-SMC couple wishes to 
adopt. Will provide a lifetime of THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths, $80­$115. Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road Exit #107, 1­800-418-9487. 

NICE FURNISHED HOMES FOR NOW OR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 
HOUSES HOUSES HOUSES 
DOMUS PROPERTIES HAVE AVAILABLE 5,6.7,8 & 10-BDRM HOUSES FOR THE 
'00-01 SCHOOL YEAR ONLY 15 
LEFT. CALL 274-1501 OR 234-2436, ASK FOR KRAMER FOR SHOWING. 
4-6 student rental houses. Lots ot extras. Huge Party Room. Washer/Dryer, etc. Dave 291-2209. 
Spring Break Specials!Bahamas  BUYING and SELLING N D FOOT- Dec. 17 for LOWER PRICES!!  
Party Cruise 5 Days $279! Includes  BALL TICKETS.  1800-426-771 0  
Meals!  GREAT PRICES. CALL 289-8048  www.sunsplashtours.com  
Awesome  
Beaches,Nightlile!Cancun &  FOR SALE  In the beginning, there was nothing,  
Jamaica 7 Nights From $399!  N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS  which exploded.  
Florida  CALL271-9412  
$129 !springbreaktravel .com  Connolly:  
1-800-678-6386  WANTED: 4 Tenn. Tix  #12 at The Observer  
312-951 ·5008  #1 in our hearts  
FOR SALE  
N.D. FOOTBALL TIX  Tenn/BC/Pitt tix  Love,  
CALL 271-9412  6073367218  Dillon 287  
ND student needs Navy tickets for  Funky GOURDS  
TICKETS  friends! Please call Vince 243-9361  
Three for a dollar!!  
Fun imaginative shapes .....  
WANTED NOTRE DAME FOOT­BALL TICKETS  PERSONAL  
271-1526  Vegas 4-eval!!!  
Gay, Lesbian and Bisexual  
SELL & BUY GA FOOTBALL TICK- students of ND/SMC meeting each  
ETS  Thurs. For info call:  Two guys, a girl, and the internet.  
277-6619  (877)631-6OUT  

laughter,love,devolion and opportu- 
WANTED  nities. 800-484-4699 code 0019  STUDENTS WANTED' Alum. owned 2 sty. 5bdrm 2bath new car­ 12 Navy ti.: Face value  High-Speed Copies, Color Copies, Binding,  Better than a soap opera ...  
To our 4am inquirer: all into kept in  pet, kit. appl., security, furnace,  Call Maureen @3944  Fax Service, R<0sum2-s,  
'"ACT NOWICALL FOR THE  total confidence. Please call back  roof. Huge yd. 1 blk. N. of club 23.  Business Cards, Laminaling,  Not as good as normality . .,  
BEST SPRING BREAK  anytime.Our prayers are with you.  $1125/ inc. utilities  -also 4/5 bdrm  & a whole lot more  
PRICES1SOUTH PADRE.CAN­ 2 blks from campus $800.  for  FOR SALE  at  
CUN.JAMAICA.BAHAMAS.ACA­ more info call 289·4365.  Navy&  THE COPY SHOP  
PULCO,FLORIDA & MARDI GRAS.REPS NEEDED. TRAVEL  FOR RENT  BCtix Best Prices  Lafortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY  I love girls who stay up late at night painting trees.  
FREE.EARN $$$.DISCOUNTS FOR 6+.  ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE  FOR SALE  AM -232-2378 PM · 288-2726  Free Pick-Up & Delivery!  
800-838-8203  HOME FOR  Spring Break 2000 Free Trips &  Who does that?  
ND-SMC EVENTS  FOR SALE  ND football t1x for sale.  Meals.  How random.  
WWW.LEISURETOURS.COM  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  N.D. FOOTBALL TIX  AM -232-2378  Jamaica,Cancun,Bahamas,Barbad  
243-0658.  CALL 271-9412  PM -288-2726  os,Florida,Padre.Book now for Free  Meditating on the floor  
Meals & 2 Free Trips.Book before  

Thursdar, October 28, 1999 The Observer. PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
student union 
HAPPENINGS 
STUDENT UNION BOARD www.nd.edu/-sub 
.South Park the Movie. 
10/28.  Thursday.  Cushing Auditorium.  1030PM.  
10/29.  Friday.  Cushing Auditorium.  0800PM & 1030PM.  
10/30.  Saturday.  Cushing Auditorium.  0800PM & 1030PM.  
Acoustlcate.  
10/28.  Thursday.  Lafortune Huddle.  0900PM-1200AM.  
Free Pumpkin Painting and Music.  
10/27.  Wednesday.  Fieldhouse Mall.  0430PM-0600PM.  
Bonfire between the lakes.  
11/02.  Tuesday.  Holy Croas Hill between lakes. 0800PM-1000PM.  
Cowboy Mouth.  
11/17.  Tuesday.  Stepan Center.  0800PM.  

HPC (HALL PRE§IDENT!i' COUNCIL] 
Keenan Great Pumpkin Fest. 10/29. Friday. Keenan Hall. 
RlliHT TD LIFE 

Meeting with Barbara Burlingham-Brown, Catholic Charities' adoption counselor. 11/01. Monday. Notre Dame Room, Lafortune. 0900PM. 
Talk by Dawn Kober, abortion survivor. 11/03. Wednesday. Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 0B00PM. 
MISCELLANEOU!i/CAMPU!i-WIDE 
ND Vs. Navy. 10/30. Saturday. Home. 0130PM. 
Trick-or-Treating Extravaganza for underprivileged kids from the South Bend Area -Circle K and Farley Hall. 10/31. Sunday. Farley Hall. 05000PM-0800PM. 
Happy Halloween. 10/31. Sunday. 

Black Images Talent Show 10/30. Saturday. Washington Hall. 0800PM. 
Habitat for Humanity General Meeting. 11 /01. Monday. csc. 0800PM. 
Big Brothers/Big Sisters Info Night. 11/08. Monday. csc. 0700PM·0800PM. 
BE INI/DLVED. · 
Tickets: $2. 
Tickets: $10 students, $12 public 
on sale 11/01, 0900AM LaFortune 
box office 
<. 
..____ 

Admission: $5 general, $3 BCAC Members 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, October 28, 1999 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Streiffer leads Irish to 38 straight Big IO wins 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Associate Sporn Editor 
The Irish PxtendPd their win­ning streak against the Big 10 to 38 games with a 9-2 win over the Wisconsin Badgers last night in Madison. 
SPnior midfir,lder Jenny Strei!Ter led the Irish offense with two goals and one assist. Her fivfl-point night gave her 194 points in her career and moved her into first place all­time on the Irish career list. 
The Irish offense chased Badger goalkeeper Kelly Conway from the net in the 70th minute after she gave up six goals and made just live savPs. Her replacement, Katie Spillane did not fair much better as the Irish scored three goals on four shots against Spillone. 
All-American defender Jen Grubb opened tlw scoring for the Irish in the 13th minute off an assist from junior forward Mcotis Erikson. Erikson finished the day with three assists and a goal. 
Wisconsin tied the game less than a minute later when Allison Wagner scored her first goal of the game. 
Grubh gave the Irish the lead back in the 16th minute. Big East defensive player of the week Kara Brown assisted on the goal. 
Strciffcr picked her first point of the game when she assisted on Erikson's game-winning goal in the 56th minute to give the Irish a 3-1 lead. 
Wagner scored another quick countm goal a minute later to close the Irish lead to one. Emily Stevens assisted on the goal. 
Streiffer pushed the lead back to two when she took an Erikson pass and fired the ball past Conway for her 63rd career goal. 
Senior forward Jenny llel't gave the Irish a three goal lead in the 61 st minute for her 7 5th 

CANCUN &MAZATLAN $499&uP SKl -CRESTED BUTTE $329 
1·800-SURFS·UP
www.studentex ress. com 
BOOK SEJ\RCH 
• 
Used, r.ire and out-of-print books 

• 
Initial cost of $Z.Od 

• 
Nationafly • circulated ad -~ • Success rate of 50%j• Time Required: 2 months ­


ERASMUS BOOKS 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232-8444 

career goal before Streiffer scored her second goal of the game three minutes later. 
Junior Anne Makinen scored two straight goals before senior Irish Lancaster closed out the Irish scoring in the 76th minute. 
The Irish offense scored its most goals since Oct. 1 when the Notre Dame scored 10 goals against Georgia. The nine goals are also the most the Irish have scored since the on the road since a 10-0 victory over the Badgers on Oct. 14, 1997. 
NHL 
Detroit wins with Shananan goals 
Associated Press 
DETROIT 

Brendan Shanahan scored two goals as the Detroit Red Wings beat the Colorado Avalanche 5-3 Wednesday night in the season's first renewal of one of the NHL's fiorcest rivalries. 
Vyacheslav Kozlov, Tomas Holmstrom and Darren McCartv also scored for the Red Wings (7-1-1), who have won five straight and are unbeaten in seven games since their lone loss Oct. 5 against Dallas. 
Adam Deadmarsh scored two goals and Shjon Podein another as the Avalanche (5-4-2) fell to 2-2 on a four-game road trip that ends Thursday at Philadelphia. 
Deadmarsh's second goal came in the linal minute on a six-man attack. But McCarty's empty-net goal with 18.4 sec­onds left ended Colorado's comeback hopes. 
Detroit goalie Chris Osgood 

made 20 saves. Colorado's Patrick Hoy had 23 stops. 
The game was the first meet­ing between the teams since Colorado ousted Detroit in six games in last season's Western Conference semifinals. 
It was cleanly played with no fights and only six minor penal­ties. 
But two of them created a 5­on-3 advantage for the Hed Wings that led to two goals in a 54-second span and wiped out a 2-0 deficit in the second peri­od. 

You buy a $20 card. 
You get $20 vvorth of vvireless calls. 
{ It's not like you need to take Critical Perspectives in Economic Theory to figure that one out.) 
S1Q FREE AIRTIME 
WITH NEW ACTIVATION* 
Our Prepaid Wireless service is a great way to get wireless when you need it at a price you can afford. Simply purchase our Prepaid Wireless Cards. You can use your own phone, or buy our prepaid package and get a phone. When you need more 
time, just purchase additional minutes. It's truly wireless when you want it. 
1-800-219-9636 • www.alltel.com 
Mishawaka: 505 W. Douglas Road • Elkhart: 3365 5. Main Street 
-'llltEC 
The power to simplify 
Sl0 free otter good With new account actl\lat,on. Offer good until Dect>mber 31, 1999. (u,tomer may provide equipment or purchn.~P equipment from ALLTEL Non-u~,ige feP of up to S4 a \'.leek may dpply R,Jam1n9 and long•d1stanc1; fees rnay .ipply Td)(e1 \','111 apply on .i per-(all ba,1~ ond ·..v1U be deciucted from $10 free a1rt1mf;' cred1' SE>e )tore for dL'T.J1ls 
,-------------------------~-----........
-Thursday, October 28, 199':J The Observer . SPORTS page l 7 
W.Soccer 
continued from page 24 
"Doris Sullivan was definite­!y tht\ ir strongt'. st p I a ynr, " Milligan said. 
Olivl'l plays Calvin Colh1ge al :l p.111. on Thursday in thn sec­ond round. 
Milligan was oplimistic abuul 1wxl season. which "viii Im the third for tlw varsity soc­cnr program. 
"Thn base we have set com­ing into next year is extremely solid," Milligan said. "We return a majority of our start­ing lineup, and the class com­ing in next year will fill in holes created by graduation." 
Of his seniors, co-captains Barger, McCabe, Rachel Egger and player Liz Coley, Milligan hacl nothing hut good things to say. 
"Tho seniors we are gradu­ating are magnificent women on and off the field," Milligan said. "We will miss them a great deal." 

MEN'S INTERHALL 
Dawgs enter playoffs as top seed 
By KEVIN BERCHOU 
Sporrs Writer 
Tho much-an tici..pated interhall football playoffs kick off this weekend. and for the lirst time in recent mem­ory, a change has occurred 
HOMES FOR RENT 

-Domus Propeties has two, five, six,and nine bedroom student housing available 
-Student neighborhoods dose to 
campus ..Security systems provided -Well maintained homes -Maintenance staff on call 
Available for the 2000/200 I school year 
ONLY 10 HOMES LEFT 
Contact Xramer (219)274-1501 or (219)234-2435 or (219)674-2571 
at the top of the seeding. 
The Keenan Knights, own­ers of an 18-game unbeaten streak that spans three years, find themselves in an unfa­miliar position -seeded third among the eight playoff squads, rather than first. the pole position they had grown accustomed to. 
The Alumni Dawgs instead occupy the top spot based on the strength of their impres­sive 4-0 record, which was just enough to secure the Blue League championship. The Siegfried Ramblers, who amassed a strong 2-0-2 rncord, come in as the second seed by way of their l'irst place finish in the Gold League. 
But a higher seed docs not necessarilv mean a better team, according to Siegfried head coach Jamie Bordas. 
"Every team in the playoff:; is high quality," Bordas said. "The rankings aren't always indicative of who is going to come out on top." 
The RecSports department, which runs and regulates interhall play, seeds teams systematically using a point system. The top two slots are automatically awarded to the two league champions. Two points are allotted for a victo­ry and one for a tie. Alumni, by accumulating the most points overall, was seeded first. 
Siegfried and Knott were tied for Gold League champi­ons, but Siegfried was 

declared winnnr as a result of its victory over Knott. The rest of' the seeding is done in much the same fashion. Keenan and Knott each fin­ished second in their respec­tive leagues, but Keenan's 3­0-1 record was good enough to earn a third seed and Knott fourth. 
Alumni players believe they deserve the lofty ranking. 
"We enjoy being seeded where we are," said Dawgs captain Pat Paquette. "Obviously we feel somll pressure, but I don't think there's necessarily a big advantage. Every game is going to be tough. We're going in with the attitude that wern the team to beat." 
Siegfried is thrilled lo be seeded second. 
"Our goal at tho beginning of the season was to make the playoffs as a high s<-rnd. and we've done that," said Bordas. "Now it's anybody's to win." 
Popular sentiment has the Blue League, comprised of the larger dorms and boast­ing higher level of competi­tion, slated to produce the champion, but Bordas doesn't think that's necessarily the case. 
"I think they have a slight advantage, simply because they draw from a higger pool of' kids," the Ramblers coach said. "This year I think play has leveled off though. Teams like us, Knott and Sorin are all very strong." 
See What's New at Tomass·t 
Multi Topping Pizza .$7.77 Single Topping Pizza $6.97 Cheese Pizza .S5.97 
Plain Brcadsticlis $2.37 1/2 Order ,$1.27 
Mozzarella Breadsticks $3.27 1/2 Order $1.77 
Mozzarella Breadsticks with 1 Topping $3.77 1/2 Order $1.97 
COMBO 1, Pizza, Mozzarella Breadsticks, and a 2 Liter Bottle of Coke $1O.77 
COMBO 2, 2 Pizzas, Mozzarella Breadsticks, and a 2 Liter Bottle of Coke .S 17.77 


-

~-........--------....,_....-------­
.............-----­

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, October 28, 1999 
HOCKEY 

Irish hope to beat Redhawks, end losing streak in CCHA 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Associate Sports Edirnr 
The Notre Dame hockey team looks to pick up its first Central Collegiate Hoe.key Association win tonight when it takes on the Redhawks of Miami University in the Joyce Center at 7:05 p.m. 
The Irish are currently 0-4 in the CCHA and stand in last place. 
"We have to get a win," head coach Dave Poulin said. "There is no question that is a priority with us right now. Everything is focused on winning a hockey game Thursday uight." 
The earlv losses have hurt the team's confidence a bit, according to Poulin. 
"When you start like this there is not question that it has been very. very difficult," he said. "We went into this year with his expectations and we haven't played well. That compounds and you certainly start to doubt what you are doing." 
Notre Dame's 1-5 record on the year is especially perplex­ing to Poulin considering the talent he has assembled. From a talent standpoint, this year's Irish squad is one of the fifth­year head coach's best. 
"You have changes on the team every year," Poulin said. "Seniors graduate, freshman come in and I think on paper we're probably a deeper team. We've brought a lot of skill in and it simply hasn't meshed yet. We are a talented hockey team that has not played well." 
The area that has produced the least this year for the Irish is special teams. Last year the Irish finished second in the CCHA on the power play with a 
19.1 percent success rate. This 
THE UNIVE 

year the Irish are 11th on the power play in 1999 with just a 
8.7 percent success rate. 

The Irish have had trouble killing penalties as well. They've given up 10 power play goals and two other goals just after a power play expired. Their penalty-kill rate has fallen from 83.2 percent last season to 75 percent this season. 
"Special teams have been a huge problem for us without question," Poulin said. "We've given up power-play goals and haven't scored them. 
"It just hasn't jived," he con­tinued. "From a pure talent standpoint, there is more tal­ent that I've had in my five years on the power play. It just hasn't meshed yet." 
The loss of Brian Urick. Aniket Dhadphale and Benoit Cotnoir to graduation could be a factor in the Irish power-play struggles. Dhadphale finished his lrish career fifth in career power-play goals. Cotnoir and Urick also played key roles on the power play last year as they combined for nine goals and 19 assists. 
In 1999, the Irish have got­ten five power-play goals •from five different players. David Inman, Dan Carlson, Ben Simon, Tyson Fraser and Brett Henning have each scored one goal with a man-advantage. 
The slow start to the season could be seen as the result of Notre Dame getting off to slow starts in games. So far in 1999, the Irish have been out scored 7 -1 in the first period. The poor starts have been a result of a lack of mental focus, according to Poulin. Poulin said that the team needs to be better prepared to play in the first period but there is no sin­gle way to motivate a team. 
. llCIElSfOI fl!IAT CAI! l!El'lliCIIIJ£U1 I.AfliflllfUl1lli ~ASHIN6TON HALt 

fAt·l t11cr1r·111 
1 I l I l ' t l I J I f "f I f I I I I ( I t ti.( f L l I t l I I . 
WiSlllilll I All 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONALSTIJDY PROGRAMS IN 
MEXICO 
2000-2001 
Students at any level ofSpanish-Beginning to Advanced -from AL, BA, SCI, and ENG are invited. Studio Art courses also available 
THl!RSDAY, OCTOBER 28, !999 
4:45 PM 
HOSPITALITY ROOM, SOUTH DINING HALL (enter through Reckers) 
MEXICAN APPETIZERS 
Application Deadline for Fall 2000, A Y 2000­2001 is December 1, 1999 

"It's preparation to get ready and everyone prepares differ• ently to get ready," he said. "What I talk to the players about is finding the way that suits them best. There is not a right way to get ready. Thero is a proper way for you to get ready, and you have to learn that and be ready to go." 
The Irish will have to be ready when the Redhawks take the ice tonight. Miami is 4-1-1 overall and 1-0-1 in the CCHA. Led by a power play that scores 20 percent of the time. The Redhawks arc third in the CCHA in scoring with 
3.67 goals per game. They have, however, also given up a lot of goals. Their 3.00 goals allowed per game is seventh in the CCHA. 
The Irish have already dug themselves a deep hole in the CCHA with losses to Michigan and Ferris State and cannot afford to fall to 0-5 if they expect to make the playoffs. The Irish have improved this 

week in practice and are ready "We had an interesting prac­to turn around the season, tice [Tuesday]." Poulin said. according to Poulin. "We've addressed some of the 

GOT A WORD FOR OUR TASTY NEW CHICKEN CLUB SANDWICH: CRAVEABLE. 
( IT' s NOT A REAL WORD, BUT WE LIKE IT I) 
issues we've had. The main thing we have to do now is play." 


THE TASTY (HICKEN CLUB IS HERE TO STAY. 
One bite of the delicious Chicken CIIA>. and you'll always crave the flavor or ils all-white-meat chicken topped with crispy bacon, !resh lettuce anel tomato ancl mayonnaise. And that's no problem. because now this ultra-satisfying sandwich is here to stay at BURGER KING• So come on in and indulge your craving. 
The> Huddle • laFortune Student Center PARTICIPATION MAY VARY 
IT JUST TASTES BETTER~ 
www burgcrk1ng corn 


Thursday, October 28, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS 
Chorney 
continued from page 24 
black in the Major L<rngues. That fact alonn, however. should not guarantne a placP on the Lt\,un. I!is numbers are slightly worse than both Rod Carew and Nap Lajoie, and arguments can be made against Joe Morgan's exclusion as well. 
Inarguably though, Hobinson's status as the first African-American player and his hero status within an entire rac<) ol' people was one of the predominant determining fac­tors in his inclusion on the team. 

It's confusing, then, to see Roberto Clemente excluded. Clemente was to Latin­Americans what Jackie Robinson was to African­Americans. Though he wasn't the first Latino in the majors, he certainly was the best 
ND Students drink less than you might think. Men have Oto 5 drinks Women drink Oto 3* 
*Based on randomly sampled self-report, average amount consumed per occasion for on-campus undergraduates. 
A message from PILLARS with Alcohol and Drug Education 311 La Fortune Student Center * University of Notre Dame phone 631-7970 * http: www.nd.edu/-aldrug 
Make it a great weekendI Don't miss ... 
Friday, 
IAiglfifi:JCE;. THE ARTS 
~NOTREDAME, IN 
For fi~k.et info~molion c~ntoct 219/28 4 4 6 2 6 
lhe Saini Mory sBox Office ot ­
He is widely considered the greatest all-around rightfielder of at least the last half-century. His arm legendary, his intelli­gence uncanny, Clemente was one of the few players equally capable of playing spectacular defense and offense. Though his untimely death cut him down in the prime of his career, his statistics still rate among the leagues best. What's more, Clemente's clubhouse presence made his Pirates team better and his service to his communi­ty is legendary. A more deserv­ing player has never played. 
Josh Gibson was unfortunate enough to die in 1947, the year that Jacki/'! Robinson broke the color barrier. However, never has a hitter dominated a league like Gibson did the Negro Leagues in the years before blacks were allowed to play in the Major Leagues. 
He hit approximately 962 homeruns in his 1 7-year career, including hitting 75 in one season, numbers even Babe Huth can not match. His life­time average of .391 would rank him far ahead of Tv Cobb's Major League-leading .367-lifetime average. Imagine averaging nearly .400 for 17 years. And yel, his lack of play­ing tho Majors has unfairly left him off of this team. 
Joe DiMaggio, one of the greatest hitters of all time, called Satchel Paige, "The best and fastest pitcher I've ever seen." DiMaggio wasn't alone in his praise. 
Paige spent 22 years domi­nating the Negro Leagues pitch­ing an astounding amount of innings. He once started 29 games in one month and won 104 out of 105 games in a cal­endar year. He once pitched 64 consecutive scoreless innings and won 21 consecutive games. 
page 19 

What's more, Paige was equally dominating in barn­storming games against Major Leaguers. There arc tales of him striking out the first nine batters in a game and striking out as many as 22 total Major Leaguers. 
Satchel did it in style too. He once waived his outfielders off of the field, sat his infielders down at their positions and then struck out the potential winning run with the tying run on second base. He even walked the bases loaded just so he could face Josh Gibson and then promptly struck him out. 
Paige didn't break into the major leagues until he was 42 years old. Ile spent the next five years in the majors averaging 
5.45 striknouts per games and compiling an earned run aver­age of 3.29. But Paige wasn't done at the age of 47. Ile made a return appearance in 1965 at the age of' 59, striking out a batter and pitching three innings of scoreless baseball. 
Can any other pitcher claim that? 
Though Gibson's and Paig1~·s statistics were racked up in tho Negro Leagues, it's important to note that these leagues wen\ not an inferior league like the USFL or CBA. In fact, many of the stars on this team began in the Negro Leagues. What's more they had to face each other, a daunting task for any player. 
Arguably three of the most dominating players ever seen in baseball, these players were left off of the team because of bad timing and tragic deaths. No other reason can exist. 
Clemente, Paige and Gibson should be on the team not because they're African­American or Latino, but because they deserve it. 
g for the perfect · · >pu.s spot for ion discussion that offers light snaeks~dbeverage service? 

Interested in gaining experience in: -Project management -Leadership -Financial responsibility -TI1c largest student run fundraiser 
($200,000) 

Then, APPLY for the SHIRT PROJECT COORDINATOR 
Submit cover letter and resume to the Office of Student Activities, 3rd floor of lafortune 
Deadline: Friday, October 29, by 5p.m. 
Questions? Call James Jesse@ 1-4557 

Thursday, October 28, 1999

The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
page 20 
Calendar of Events 
.}h 
~~ ;-.-..,,,c.~"c:-.;:::::·.. 
· Freshman Retreat #25 (Nov. !M\} Stgti-Up ·· ... .; </
~-:J~--. ','' _··: ;,, .,:,_ :,~ ;: .?\ :><e·:_'f\ ,t\}i: 
Continuing through Nov.. 3, 103 J!J•sburgh Ubrary,l,l:(~<> *­~~in Hall. T'argeted Dorms: AlumnJ;.~ree· Keough. Lyons,. McGHnn, Pasq 
Africentric Spirttuallty: Fresh 
Thursday, October2S. 7;00,B: HospitafitY Room 
Folk Choir concert for Misslons;l . Also Featuring the Notre Dame Htll'ldt>eU Choir 
Saturday, October 30, 7:30 pm, Basmca of the Sacred Heart 
Africentric Spirituality St11dellt Retreat: Sophomore Intro 
Sunday, October 31, lindenwoctd · 
Dia de los Muertos A traditional Mexican celebration horumng the deceased 
1:00 pm Meet at LaFourtUflfLounge ,, 
1:15 pm ProcessidJl to K~~tj'at,,$ta1f?~?,~r,1ePftl 
All Saints Day 
Freshman Retreat'#25 
Friday-Saturday. Novembt'lt~6, St. 11"1~ HAI 1.•<. 
Notre Dame Encounter Retreat #58 
Friday-Sunday, NQvember.$"7; Fatima RWeat, 
Weekend Preslders 
at Sacred Heart Basilica Saturday, October 30 Mass 
30 min. after the game 
. Rev. Thomas P. Doyle, C.S.C. 
Sunday, October 31. Mass 
8:00 a.m. 
ReV;Rlchard S. Bullene,C.S.C. 
10:00 a.m. 
Most Rev. Daniel R. Jenky, C;$.C. 11:45a.m. ,Rev>David J. Scheldt~r; c.s.c~ .. 
,STEPAN CENTER 
,: Saturday,.·October 30, Mass 4145:rnin: after theigan,e · 
Rev. John A. Herman, c.s.c. • 
Scripture Readings 
1st Reading Malachi 1: 14b-2:2b, 8-10 
2nd Reading 1 Thessalonians 2:7b-9, 13 
Gospel Matthew 23: 1-12 

Too Nice for Our Own Good 
Tom Doyle, C.S.C. 
Each year when I interview all the freshmen in the dorm, I pose the question "What do you like about Notre Dame?" The most common response is, "people are so nice here." People generally are nice here, and well behaved, respectful and good mannered. Sometimes I fear that Notre Dame is the most polite place in the world. Our niceness is so pervasive that we can trick ourselves into thinking that somehow we have arrived ... we are doing enough ... a high percentage of students who do service ... competitors hug each other after Bengal Bouts matches ... everyone who is here loves it and feels like they belong ... we are all good Christians ... Ex Corde Ecclesiae is a moot point ... Notre Dame is the greatest Catholic University in the world ... and Jesus Christ himself would be lucky to be enrolled at this esteemed place. 
It's not that I have anything against being nice. I find it a much prefer­able disposition to being mean, rude, ornery or other disagreeable behaviors. It just seems that acting nicely can cover a multitude of sins. Being and desperately wanting things "nice" at Notre Dame can cause us to overlook and camouflage some of our most ugly and sinful fea­tures. As a community, we have some deep fissures that are too often dangerously draped over by majority populations and a culture of nice­ness. Race, economic status, gender and sexual orientation: our atti­tudes toward these painful, awkward, complex realities painfully strain our community. To the extent that we do not have empathy for, and conversation with, people who live on the other sides of these divides, we are prevented from being in communion with one another and our God. Our avoidance and inability to share our experience honestly across these chasms weakens and destabilizes the beloved ground we tread upon. And when we're on the larger more powerful side of these divides, we're less likely to experience the effects of these tremors. 
Homosexual people study, work and make significant contributions at Notre Dame. My work in Campus Ministry leads me to believe that externally, gay and lesbian persons blend in pretty, if not very, well. Internally, they often don't usually feel like full and valued members of this community. 
In part, gay and lesbian persons feel disconnected because they have frequent contact with the few people at Notre Dame who fall short on our general standards of niceness. These people tell crude jokes about gays and lesbians. They'll scrawl FAG on a dormitory whiteboard but don't have the decency to sign their name to the message. They'll make prank or threatening phone calls in the middle of the night. They'll speak in hushed voices speculating with others about someone else's sexuality. 
In part, Notre Dame doesn't feel safe or like home for gay and lesbian persons because the silent majority is often too nice. Lots of people hear the gay jokes, don't laugh, think they are wrong but don't protest. Some sit silently on the periphery of speculative and judgmental conversa­tions about someone else's sexual orientation and are too embarrassed to ask their friends not to gossip. Many pass by the white-boards and don't wipe away hurtful messages because they weren't responsible for writing them. People too nice are indicted by their inaction. When I was at Notre Dame as an undergraduate, I had a very good friend who waited seven semesters before he shared with me that he was gay. Why did he wait so long? Why didn't he trust me with this aspect of his life earlier? Why didn't he share with me the weight of his burden? I'm sure he knew I was nice enough to listen to his news, but he must of doubted that I was courageous enough to meet him on the edge of a very deep fissure. 
This weekend, at all the campus masses, Campus Ministry and repre­
sentatives of OUTreachND are going to ask you to politely accept a gift. 
It is a pray.er and pledge that we have co-authored. It attempts to 
describe and open ourselves to how we believe that God calls us to be in 
communion with lesbian and gay persons at Notre Dame. The pledge 
makes concrete how we will strive to relate to one another. The ribbon 
is a sign that you are invited to display which indicates that you have 
prayed the prayer, spoken the pledge and have the courage to meet a 
friend or stranger on the edge of one of our campus', this country's, our 
Church's and the world's deepest fissures. 
-

There is nothing wrong with being nice . . . if is real enough to express Truth and draw us into communion and community with one another in (DMPUS Jesus Christ. tv11NISTRY 
Thursday, October 28, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
Info Session Tonight 
6 pm at the Center For Social Concerns 
KIDS CORPORATION 
A non-profit organization offering educational programs in Newark, NJ to inner city children. 
Teacher assistants and camp counselors wanted to educate and inspire. 
Not a job, an experience. Summer '00 Pay, credits, and scholarships 
Got SPORTS? Call 1-4543 

Urban Plunge is a 48-hour experimental learning course set in urban communities, where students visit with individuals, agencies and parishes that are striving to meet the many needs of the socially and economically disenfranchised. 

Registration Deadline! 
5:00 PM, Friday, October 29th 
Pick up and drop off your registration form at the Center for Social Concerns today! 
Questions? Call Jay Caponigro, 631-5293. 
BASKETBALL 

Murphy nailled to All-Big East first teaill 
El-Amin is joined on the Special co The Observer 
1999-00 Preseason All-Big East First Team by two 
Khalid El-Amin, who has seniors and two sophomores.

directed Connecticut to the 

The seniors are Miami 
l 999 NCAA title and a 66-7 

swingman Johnny Hemsley
record over the past two years 

and Syracuse center Etan 
as the starting point guard, 

Thomas. 
has been named 1999-2000 The sophomores are Notre 

Big East Preseason Player of 

Dame forward Troy Murphy
the Year by a vote of the and St. John's guard Erick 

league's head coaches. 

Barkley. 
Jones 
continued from page 24 
field. 
''lie's a little different sty le back," Rogers said. "The other guys are long, tall guys. Tony Fisher and Tony Driver are both 6-foot-1-, 6-foot-2-inch guys and probably 220 (pounds] or so. Julius Jones is more the scat back kind of guy -a 5-foot-10-inch, 195 ball of muscle that can really change directions, has great speed and can catch the ball also. With the ball in his hands, he's a pretty exciting guy." 
Jones has offered excite­ment on special teams. Jones emerged as the Irish return man after Getherall went down with a shoulder injury. He averages over 12 yards on punt returns and almost 20 yards on kickoff returns. 
"Playing on special teams has helped me out a lot," Jones said. "Joey got hurt early in the season, so I had to step up and go in. I've been producing pretty well at that position, and I think that's given me the chance to play at tailback because the coaches 

arc starting believe in me more." 
Head coach Bob Davie had high praise for the freshman back. 
"I want to sec him get the football. No doubt about that," Davie said. "His plate is going to keep getting filled up now. He is no longer a freshman. We have been through seven games and two open dates, so we are going to let him rip now." 
Jones, however, knows there is still a lot to be learned. 
'Tm learning from all the tailbacks," Jones said. "They know the offense pretty well and I'm still learning, so they help me out with the blocking assignments." 
Rogers and the rest of the coaching staff see. the talent in Jones and are trying to mold him into a complete player. 
"He can be special. 1 don't think there is any question about it," Rogers said. "Julius' biggest problem right now is that he was a high school player at this time last year. The way you practice, every play is different than it was in high school. When you're a big shot in high school, you're able to take a play or two off. We have to cure him of that." 

THE ~UBWA,r
RSAODWICH SHOULD BE. 

TN-IJ-:REASONS
• • , • # , • .,, 
TO ·.PJ\R-TY •R£·
,o • • • • I 
GIANT PARTY SUBS FOR ANY OCCASION! 
(Please Order At Least 48 Hours In Advance) 
•1706 South Bend Ave (Walking Distance!)243-7738 
•SR 23 & lronwood/277-77 44 •Indian Ridge Plaza/271-1772 
•52577 US 31 N (North Village Mall)277-1024 
</:J 1997 Doctor's Associates Inc. 
• 


page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, October 28, 1999 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL 

Quarterbacks Choi, Plummer bring talent to playoffs 
and she is smart on the field,"  hurt BP's chances.  talent at the quarterback posi­ Dame.  Recent  speculation 
By RACHEL BIBER  BP captain Katie Leicht said,  "I  try  to  wear  the  Notre  tion  has  impressed  him  claims that Plummer's deci­ 
Sports Writer  "She is  a  motivator on  the  Dame sor:k each game," Choi  throughout the time that he  sion to return to Notre Dame  
field and always has  a good  said. "But I rely on  my team­ has coached the Babes.  rests on  the opportunity to  
The path to the renowned  attitude,"  Leicht said. "While  mates."  "She is very coachable and  play interhall football, but her  
field in  Notre Dame Stadium  balancing the academic load of  Choi,  a  fifth-year senior,  catches  on  right  away,"  constant contribution to her  
will begin this weekend as the  a  triple- enjoys  the  Shannon said. "She's a  good  teams winning ways and her  
interhall  footbaII  playoffs  major,  Choi  friendships  team leader,"  solid  leadership  probably  
begin, and two stellar quarter­ has  still  "She is a tremendous  that interhall  Plummer  received  equal  explains why her opponents  
backs have their focus set on leading their perspective teams to the hallowed destina­ proven dedi­cated to her fellow team­ leader and very intense. Her strengths are her  football has to offer, and takes pride in  acclaim from Pyro captain Anna Benjamin who has never seen another player like  make that allegation. "She is a tremendous leader and very intense," follow  
tion,  m  a  t  e  s  agility and her ability to  the teamwork  Plummer. Plummer's aptitude  teammate and wide receiver  
The dominance of Breen­Phillips quarterback Jenny  throughout the season.  move around"  that she and her fellow  for the role of quarterback has caused PE to be a perennial  Kerry Hanley said, "Her strengths are her agility and  
Choi and Pasquerilla East's  ''Her pres­ Babes exhibit  powerhouse during her time at  her ability to move around,"  
quarterback  Elizabeth  ence at prac- Kerry Hanley  on the field.  Notre Dame.  The  road  to  the champi­ 
Plummer has turned heads  tice  and  Pyro football player  "I enjoy the  "She completely dominates  onship game this season will  
this season.  while each has  games  is  teamwork,"  the game," Benjamin said.  be tough for both the Babes  
guided her team through suc­ always  Choi  said.  "She is in another league, and  and the Pyros, but the consis­ 
cessful regular season play.  assured, despil.e her demand­ "It's a time to go out and have  she does not  come  close to  tent offensive force that Choi  
Plummer's team leadership  ing schedule. She is a  triple  fun, and it is also an opportu­ anvone  we  have  played  and Plummer have contributed  
is exemplified by the fact that  major,"  Leicht  continued.  nity to meet people in your  against,"  to their teams this season will  
the Babes cruised through the  "But she never makes excus­ dorm."  The Pyros' interhall team  provide  a  powerful thrust in  
regular season  unscathed by  es."  BP roach Kevin Shannon  has been synonymous with the  allowing either BP  or  PE to  
their opponents, posting an  Choi recognized her knack  was  quick to praise Choi's  name of Plummer during her  end its  season  on  the field  
undefeated record. Not only  for the quarterback position as  ability and talent.  Her natural  five-year  tenure  at  Notre  inside Notre Dame stadium.  

did her pure athletic talent determine her offensive domi­nance, but her motivated spirit contributed as well. 
"Her strengths are her lead­ership ability and her sheer athletic talent," Pyro captain Anna Benjamin said. "She goes out of her way to know everyone, and she gets every­one fired up." 
The Babes' Choi has exhibit­ed similar leadership as well throughout the regular season, also leading her team to a sparkling record of 6-0. BP's penetrating offense has no doubt been due to the intelli­gent play of its quarterback. 
"She has a lot of experience, a freshman in RP. 

"I started playing freshman vear," Choi said. ''I'd never played football beforn and I tried out for fun." 
Without any previous experi­ence before coming to Notre Dame she still shines on the field. 
The leadership, talent, and ability that Choi consistently displays could be a result of a lucky sock bearing the name of Notre Dame that she tries to wear each time she leads her team to victorv, The Babe's 6­0 record is ~ost likely the result of strong team unity and talent, but wearing an old sock each game has obviously not 

~ 
Italian/s1cllJan ..~"---·~rattoria 
Dining ,--r, -~ ) ~ ~\ C: 5 S. Michigan St. Fresh prepared ~ers, ' ,&uth Bend, IN 46601 Pizza, Beverages ~u 219-233-1000 
Downtown South Bend's Finest Italian Dining 

THE 27th ANNUAL 


SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
Madrigal Dinners 
Fri. & Sat., Dec. 3 & 4 at 7 pm Sun., Dec. 5 at 2 & 7 pm Regina North Lounge 
This festive holiday event features a menufitforaking plus entertainment -~­byrolozfully-attiredjesters,musicians, and singers from the Saint Mary's­
SAINT 



FRIDAY TONIGHT!
MEN'S HOCKEY
SOCCER 
vs.
vs. 

Miami
Georgetown 7:30pm 
7:00pm 
Free admission for all students Free admission to first 375 students 

FIRST-YEAR STUDENTS 
-

COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING NOVEMBER 4 • 4:00 to 6:30 p.m. 
VISIT THE OBSERVERAT HTTP://WWW.ND.EDU/ OBSERVER 

Thursday, October 28, 1999 The Observer . TODAY 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
\JJI-I.H.~ AU 'tJ'E GOit.Ji$ 10 rltJD 
M,o~E. f",OIJ€.\' \ "-J S\le.+t 1-1TTL. E , It->.E~ 
Fox TROT 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 29 Like some Mass 1 Sleeper's woe parts e Cyrillic alphabet 31 Custodian's 
user 
collection 10 Hunky-dory 32 "Bus Stop" star, 1956
13 Rundown area 34 Stiff-upper-lip
15 Fiber-yielding type
plant 36 Prize-winning
1e Year in Nero's students of reign traffic patterns? 
11 Corn and 40 Like mostsquash at a horoscopes
roadside farm stand? 41 Make potable, in a way
20 Pollen producer 1 43 It may be
21 Presidents, at times 
revolving or 
sinking

22 Y.M.C.A. class 46 Yellow spread 
23 Norton Sound port 
48 Cervantes title 

25 Eye rakishly 49 Libido 2t1 Tyler and Taylor, so "The jig_!" for two s2 Go a-courting? 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
ALIAS COM L E O N E A P I ACTIN RA 
OW 

N T s 
T 
o E A A M E X E R N E O T E A O C O O L T A D A E E A I E H O s E s T V X V E s E s 
Answer to riddle: CELL PHONES 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
! 'J: F-EFU.SE. WeR M'IS.E,
'"E. u:.ve:t­
R0\-1 tJ(:, 11-Hi! 
53 Trunk part 56 Ram's or bull's place 59 Kings who dropped from the heavens? s2 Abbr. at the bottom of a business letter 63 Cinemato­
2  3  4  5  
13  
17  

grapher Nykvist &1 Twister 65 Low mark ee Apprentice e1 Painter's plaster 
DOWN 
1 Cabinet Dept. 2 Computer screen coating 3 Particle name coined by Enrico Fermi 4 Female name 
ending s "Up and_!" e Have a 
swayback 
1 Amendment construing judicial powers 
a Some learning 9 Kerouac, e.g. 10 Claim 

eo Telephone trio 35 St. Pierre et 54 Waterfall
11 Too Miquelon phenomenon e1 B'way posting 
12 Some 37 Caulfield'schocolates creator 

14 Dutch Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 38 Turns inside out are available by touch-tone phone:
18 Son of Seth 39 Is in a slump? 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
19 Atlas's locale 22 Welsh valley 42 Cremona Annual subscriptions are available for the 24 Hamstrings and best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50
crowd? others 43 Like ogres years: 1-888-7-ACROSS, 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
-

Name ______________________ Address ___________________ City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
TOM KEELEY 
BILL.AMEND 
page 23 

A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD JEFF BEAM 
.. 


"1l'
., 
0 
Q 

Mental note: Never schedule yearbook pictures the morning after going out. 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS 
DAY: Julie Roberts, Bill Gates, Annie 
Potts, Jonas Salle, Cleo Laine, Bruce 
Jenner 
Happy Birthday: You'll get back what you put out this year. If you choose to sit back in a comer all by yourself and contribute nothing, don't expect anyone to hand you something on a silver platter. It will be up to you to interact with anyone who can benefit your cause. You have lots to offer, so stop wasting time. Your numbers: 5, 16, 22, 30, 35, 42 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You'll be in the mood for love. Your quick wit and charm will attract new romantic partners. Make sure you're honest about yourself and your inten­tions. Travel opportunities will be exciting. 0000 
TAURUS (April 20-Maj 20): Your money-making ideas wil be lucra­tive. Talk to relatives and friends about your plans. Travel will be favorable but expensive. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-J1111e 20): En­hance your romantic chances by get­ting involved in organizations that can offer you a host of new coruiec­tions. Be prepared to spend along the way. Joining good clubs costs money. 
000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You may be taken for granted if you are too willinl( to give of your own time. Do not lake on problems that don't concern you. Lending money to friends or relatives will result in ill feelings. 000 
LEO (July 2.l-Aug. 22): Travel will be most satisfying. You will meet new lovers en route. Don't try to win hearts by exaggerating your worth. Be yourself and you'll find that people will like you a whole lot 

Birthday Baby: Your serious demeanor may help you accomplish things, but it isn't likely to win you popularity. You'll have to lighten up a little and learn to enjoy life. Open up and learn the joy of living, and you can have it all. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at utroadvice.com, eugenialaaLcom, astromate.com.) 01999 Univenal PressSyndicate 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
beam,1@nd.edu 
EUGENIA LAST 

more.0000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept 22): Take a 
look at your assets aruf investments. 
It's time to start making changes. Liq­
uidate and move your cash into areas 
you feel are safer. Follow your own 
instincts when it comes to money 
matters.00 
LIBRA (Sept 23-0ct. 22): Do a lit­tle socializing with your clients or col­leagues. You'll have the know-how when it comes to charmingly getting your own way. Don't be afraid to pre­sent your ideas. 00000 
SCORPIO (OcL 23-Nov. 21): You can make professional gains. Your detennination will enable you to per­suade others to see things your way. You will be praised if you help the underdog. Don't hold back. Speak your mind. 000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You're ready for just about anything. Get involved in competitive activities. Include family and friends in your plans to get the most enjoyment out of recreational events. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
Someone you live with will give you a hard time. Don't force your plans on him or her; just do your own thing. ff you want to malce changes at home, do so yowself. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You really need to take a break. Do things that will enable you to meet new peo­ple. A change of pace would do you a world of good. 00000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You'll accomplish a great deal if you focus on getting ahead. You will heighten your reputation al work if you are willing to put in a little overtime, but make sure that you get paid for your services. 00 
r-----~----~-------------------------­
Early sign of success 
Troy Murphy was one of • 
only two sophomores selected for the r999-2000 
Preseason All-Big East 
First Team. 

PORTS 
page 21 

O
THE 
page 24 BSERVER Thursday, October 28, 1999 


I l 
t f [ 
I 
l 
l ! t ' ­
• 
-
FOOTBALL 

Jones takes advantage of opportunities 
By BRIAN KESSLER Spons Editor 
Freshman tailback Julius Jones came to Notre Dame in August not expecting a whole lot. 
Prior to thP season, calling the Irish backfield deep and talented was an understatement. Autry Denson, the school's all-time leading rusher, had departed, but them were several capable backs waiting to fill Denson's shoes. So JonAs knew he had to be patient and wait his turn. 
But early in the season, Jones caught the eye of the coaches. Darcey Levy transferred, Tony Driver was suspended, Joey Gethcrell was injured -and Jones now finds himself starting on special teams and No. 2 on thP. dP-pth chart at tailback. 
"I never expected this. but I'm glad it's hap­pened to me," Jones said. 'Tm getting better as the year goes on and things are working out well for me." 
Really well. 
Jones led the Irish tailbacks in rushes and yards in the past two games and is expected to see even more carries as a result of Driver's suspension. 
'Tm just getting a little more playing time and trying to step up," said Jones, who ranks fourth on the Irish squad in all-purpose yards and total offense. "It's unfortunate he [Driver] got into the situation he did, but we just have to step up and take over. Any time you get more play time. you get excited about it. I just have to go out and help the team out." 
"His role is increasing here every week with Tony [Driver] here or not," offensive coordina­tor Kevin Rogers said. "Obviously though he'll be used more. J think over the course of time he's proven that he's a pretty talented guy." 
Julius' brother Thomas is pretty talented as well. Thomas Jones, a senior at Virginia, is second in the country in rushing, averaging nearly 160 yards per game. 
"l talk to him almost every other day," Julius said. "We're very close. He helps me out and tells me how to deal with things since he's already been through it." 
Jones offers a different look for Rogers' offense and adds some excitement in the back-

Freshman Julius Jones will start on special teams and hold the No. 2 tailback position when Notre Dame faces Navy on Saturday.
see JONES/page 21 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Belles shut out in first round of tournament 
This problem plagued the McCabe, both senior co-cap­Milligan said. "We did a good
By SARAH RYKOWSKI 

Belles all season long, espe­tains for the Belles, had four job of marking their lead scor­Sports Writer 
cially in league contests. In and two attempts, respective­er [Laura Fiorino]. She only 
the regular season game ly. Laura Paulen and Lynn had two shots, no goals and 
A season that has been, in against third-ranked Olivet, Taylor also had shots. no assists." 
many ways, Saint Mary's best, the score was also 3-0. "SMC was definitely ready to Olivet's first two goals came 
ended as the Belles were elim­"The score was the same, play," Milligan said. in the first half. Hope Murphy 
inated from the MIAA tourna­but we controlled the flow of The Belles' work on their scored the first goal off of a 
ment on Tuesday. play much better than earli­defensive skills paid off in this penalty kick. Doris Sullivan 
The team fell in the first er," Milligan said. "Overall, game. Olivet had 17 corner scored the second when she 
round of the tournament, los­we played much, much better kicks, all of which Saint beat Saint Mary's defenders in 
ing to Olivet College, 3-0. in this game than we did in Mary's blocked. Goalie Bric the penalty box. In the second 
"Overall I was pleased with the regular season game Gershick made ninA saves half, Sullivan scored again off 
our play," head coach Jason [against Olivet]." against Olivet. a throw-in from out of 
Milligan said. "We had lots of Saint Mary's had eight shots "They did not score any bounds. 
!scoring] opportunities, but we on goal compared to Olivet's goals off of corners, which 
were not able to finish them." 15. Katy Barger and Erin was one of our objectives," 
see W.SOCCER/page 17 

Teant of 
century 
lacking 
The end of the century is near, in case you haven't noticed. 
It seems like everyone and their mother arc busy trying to formulate lists uf Brian Churney greatest this and that of the 
On the Hot century. Corner Major League Baseball, not to be outdone, recently announced its list of its "All­Century team,"making a gal­lant ceremony during game two of the World Series. 
Much has been made of Pete Rose's controversial selection to the list and Bud Selig deci­sion to allow him to be a part of the ceremony. In fact, so much has been made, that the three most glaring omissions on the list have gone over­looked. 
The All-Century team was riddled with ridiculous inclu­sions and equally abhorrent omissions to it. Consider that Mark McGwire, who hits homeruns but barely fields his position, made the team while Jimmie Foxx, an excellent fielder who hit a full 60 points higher and had 11 more homeruns this century than McGwire, was left off. 
While it's hard to criticize Cal Ripken Jr.'s selection because of his dedication to playing everyday and his hall of fame stats, it's also hard to leave off Ozzie Smith, the man who was possibly the greatest fielder ever. 
Frank Robinson was left off of the team despite hitting 586 homeruns, winning a triple crown and winning MVPs in both leagues, as was Joe Jackson who, despite being banned from baseball, hit .347 for his career and is regarded as one of the best "five­tool"players ever. Steve Carlton was left off of the team despite ranking second in all­time strikeouts and ninth in all-time wins. 
While Major League Baseball tried to correct some of these grievous wrongs by adding five players after the voting was already over, they inexcusably excluded three men. The three stick out pri­marily because of the inclusion of Jackie Robinson to the team. 
Jackie Robinson was fortu­nate enough to be the first 
see CHURNEY/page 19 

vs. Miami, at Mary & William vs. Georgetown, 
Today, 7:05 p.m. rff' lnvirarional, Friday, 7:30 p.m. 
Friday-Sunday, all day MIAA Championships, 
SPORTS ~ ~ '·,::::..-:) 'ii Saint Mary's Cross Country 
Cross Country 
ar Kalamazoo College, 

ATA f!I
Big Ease Championships, Volleyball 
vs. Navy, 
Sarurday, I l a.m. 

at New York, f!I Midwest Invitational, ,...(I 
Sarurday, 1:30 p.m. 
Friday, 10 a.m. Friday, 3:30 p.m. 
GLANCE • 






