..,..~---------------------------------------­
---------~ ---­
Not busy next year? 
Treasure Chest 
The Alliance for Catholic 
Officialsfind the flight data recorder from 

Wednesday
Education (ACE) program gives opportunities 
EgyptAir Flight 990 Tuesday. 
}<>r post-graduate service. 

WorldNation . page 5 

NOVEMBER 10, 
Scene . page 16 

1999 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

VOLXXXlll NO. 49 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


Countdo-wn to Ex Corde Ecclesiae enters final -week 
A decade of debate culminates with vote on Catholic education 
sity are rnquired to have a manda­
By TIM LOGAN 
tum granted by a competent eccle­
News Ediror 
siastical authority." That authority, for Notrn Dame, 
A landmark moment in the future Saint Mary's and the other three of Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Catholic colleges in the Fort the rest of American Catholic high­Wayne-South Bend diocese, would er education is one week away. be Bishop John D'Arcy. 
Next Wednesday. the National lt is the juridicial, legalistic tone Conference of Catholic Bishops will of' this proposal and llrn implication likely vote on the implementation that academics would Im subject to of Ex Corde Ecclesiae, Pope John approval by outside influence of the 
Paul II's apostolic constitution on bishop that worries educators. the role of Catholic universities in "(The mandate! is an instrument, the Church. This vote will be the however ineffoctive, to control culmination of a decade-long what is taught and written," wrote debate over a proposal which many University president Father Edward 
educators fear will inhibit academ­Malloy and Father Donald Monan, ic freedom and institutional auton­chancellor of Boston Collegc, in the omy at the 235 Catholic colleges Jan. 30 issue of"America," a Jesuit and universities in the United journal of' opinion. "The authority States. competent to give, deny or removP 
the mandate is legally and organi­The proposal zationally external to the university Much of Ex Corde Ecclesiae, and its governancn." 
Latin for "From the Heart of the Others, however, claim the man­Church," deals with campus min­date is necessary to correct a shift istry programs and the role of uni­away from official Catholic teach­versities in Catholicism. Debate. ings in some theology classrooms, however, has raged over more con­and, furthermore, would aid in the troversial elements of the docu­education of faith on Catholic cam­
ment that would give local bishops puses. more direct control over schools in "No school can be morn Catholic their dioceses. than its faculty," Notre Dame law 
The most contentious element professor Gerard Bradley told the involves approval of Catholic the­Knights of Columbus in March. "I ologians by their local bishops. The think that this would foster an 
proposal would require that opportunity for students lo look to 
"Catholics who teach the theologi­
cal disciplines in a Catholic univer­see EX CORDE/page 1 
FACULTY SENATE 



Malloy addresses University relationship with Observer 

However, Malloy did not want a
" ... it would be a mistake to 
By JOSHUA BOURGEOIS 
formal policy to be derived. 
Assisr,1r11 News Editor have a formal written ad 
"I believe it would be a mistake policy because it would not to have a formal written ad poli­Univnrsity prnsidnnt Fathnr cy because it would not be able
be able to cover everything."
t•:dward Malloy spoke Tuesday to to cover everything,~ Malloy !hP h1nilt.y S1•nat11 rngarrling said. Tlw 0bs1'rver's advertising poli-Father Edward Malloy Malloy said that "as long as the 1:y, µuhlishing Bnard 111' Trustens University president student editors and writers act 1111d FPllows minult•s. hiring professionally, they will have full 111or11 faculty and the academic freedom in editorial
acc1~pled or printed."
1;1'1H1ratio11s campaign. content." Ile drew a distinction,
Malloy explained that the
In his annual addrPss and however, between advertise­
UnivBrsily is The Observer's pub­
qtwstinnl.111sw1•r snssion with the ments and copy. stating that he
lisher because of its relationship
s P n11 t ,~ • M a 11 oy respon cl c d to drws not hclieve advertiscmPnts 
as a collector of' student foes and
qunstions about a policy sfll !'nrth qualil'y as editorial conlent. 
owner fir its leasnd office space.
hy tlw U11iv1:rsity, banning Th1J 
Malloy described the actions
0bsnrv1:r from running adv11r­In othc'r Senate news:
that the University takes in
tis11m1\11 ls f"rom the Gay and 
resolving problems with The
l.11shian Alumni of Notn1 Damn . Malloy addrnssed the
0bsnrver, mentioning I.hat
and Saint Mary's (CALA­request that the minutes from
"informal communication is
ND/SMC). the Board of Trustees and
important."

"Thi: 0bsnrver is 1t11 official Fellows meetings be published.
Ile suggested that The
Univ1irsily organization.... and Malloy disagreed, saying he
Observer's editorial board and
thn Univnrsity is its publisher," thought that all information is
members of the office-of the
Malloy rpspond(1d to a prnpared released when necessary.
president should meet and dis­
question. "!\s its µuhlislrnr, we 
cuss policies for the paper.
will not. allow CAL/\ ads tn bn see SENATE/page 6 


INSIDE COLUMN 
Spread the w-ord · 
This is the most loathed space in the entire paper. For those ofus who put out this fine, indepen­dent publication every day, one of ihe most 
feared phrases is ''Will you write tomorrow's Inside Column?" 
Why do people hate to write? Are we afraid to tell people what we're thinking, even ifit goes against the "safe" route? 
Does no one have m1y­thing to say anymore? 
Have we lost our love of the written word. of the debate, of the radicalism that comes with speaking one's mind? Do we no longer feel the need for immediate response? Don't let us become reduced to a "whatever" society: a com­
munity of readers whose only response is the one-word cop-out. 
Upset that the pop machine wouldn't take your dollar'? Write about it. There's something there; there's no topic too small. Write about how tech­nology has taken over our world and we can't even use it to buy some caffiene. 
Once we say that there's a topic too insignifi­cant to share one's thoughts, we put limits on ideas. freedoms and democracy itself. We might as well just put a ban on columns -nothing too small, nothing too antagonistic. 
But I mean, who puts bans on freedom of speech? We all know that sort of thing is wrong and, frankly. just silly. 
Even in the News department, we recognize that not everyone will read what we write and that many people just don't care. We even joke about it. We have to -it's often hours spent on unappreciated work. The same goes for these columns. 
Who really cares what I think about friendship or the bookstore or black pants? But why should that stop me from expressing myself? Since when did expressing one's self become such a prob­lem? 

I detest every ideology of the Ku Klux Klan. Who are these morons walking around in sheets, masking their stupidity? But the fact of the mat­ter is, they have every right to express [solely ver­bally] their stupidity. · 
These close-minded degenerates marched through the streets of New York recently [which, by the way, was a REALLY smart thing to do] proclaiming their everything-good-is-white-and­we're-white-therefore-we're-smart ideas. I was personally disgusted because of my inability to agree with utter unjustifiable ignorance, but not once did I disagree with their right to speak. 
To me, the words of the Ku Klux Klan have as much right to be expressed as my simple views on black lycra. 
One of the most vital components of this news­paper is the Viewpoint section. Turn to pages 14 and 15 and read what people have to say. 
These pages are undoubtedly filled on a daily basis with some of the most intelligent, idiotic and humorous thoughts I've come across. 
Absorb the opinions, don'tjust read them. Do they make you mad? Do you agree? Let people know. Even ifno one reads it, get it off your chest. Trust me, you'll feel much better. 
This is an appeal to both everyday readers and my colleagues. Something makes you mad. Something makes you smile. Why not share it? 
Everyone has a viewpoint -use it. 
The uiews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Bill Uniowski Julia Gillespie Kate Steer Mike Vanegas Matt Bunda Graphics 
Sports Amy Crownover Mike Connolly 
Production Viewpoint 
Rachael Protzman Brian Hobbins 
Lab Tech Mary Leffers 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) i, published Monday through Friday cxup, during ~xam and vacation periods. Th~ Observer is a member of rhe Associ:atc:d Press. AU reproduction rights arc reserved.. 

Christine Kraly 
Associate News Editor 

THIS WEEK IN SOUTH BEND 
Today  Thursday  
. Exhibit: "Wildlife Art,"  . Salsa Lessons: Club  
Clark Lecture Hall, Niles,  Landing, South Bend,  
10 a.m.  -5 p.m.  8:30 p.m.  -9 p.m.  
. Exhibit: "American  . Christmas at the  
lmpre~sionism," Kras! Art  Mansion: Winchester  
Center, St. Joseph,  Mansion. Elkhart,  
10 a.m.  -4 p.m.  3 p.m.  -8 p.m.  

Compiled from U-Wire reports 



OUTSIDE THE DOME 

Nebraska ticket-taker arrested for taking cash 
LINCOLN. Neb. 
University of Nebraska police arrested a ticket taker during Saturday's home game against Texas A&M University after an officer saw a man pay him to let about 15 people in without tickets, University Police Sgt. Mylo Bushing said. 
Roger Baskervillfl was arrested for theft of services and released on a bond of 10 percent of$500, or $50. 
Bushing said UNL police received a tip Nov. 2 that Baskerville was allow­ing fans into the stadium in return for cash. 
During Saturday's game, a UNL police officer saw a man shake hands with Baskerville, apparently make some kind of exchange and enter Memorial Stadium, Bushing said. 
The man was stopped by police just after entering, Bushing said. He told them he paid Baskerville $100 to let 

Wisconsin gets diversity grant 
MADISON, Wis. 
Ameritech has given the University of Wisconsin System a $1.5 million grant to support efforts to diversi­fy the school's student body and faculty, university offi­cials announced Friday. "l think this news is very excit­ing," said Senior Vice President for Administration David Olien. "This is one of the largest grants we have ever received." This grant is the second UW has received from Ameritech; the first amounted to $500,000 and was allocated to build the student information Web page. Olien said the UW System submitted Plan 2008 ­a strategy to increase the number of minority students, faculty and staff at the university -for consideration of grant money, "Ameritech was very interested in helping to create a diverse learning atmosphere and accepted our proposal," he said. Plan 2008 was adopted by the Board of Regents this year. According to Lyall's report, the goal of the plan is to serve all people in the state by expanding educational opportunities. The UW System's Multicultural Information Center, housed at UW­Milwaukee, will receive $300,000 to increase diversity on all 26 Wisconsin state campuses. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
S Day South Bend Forecast 

AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
1

Wedne. scta·.y··..~·· A.ii.s.·:1_~;
\. ,....., ... ·'•:~· ·: ..·
'. ,., 



Thursday ~ 56;:,-!35••·~ 
-~. ,.,,:._if 
Friday1 ~::sar Saturday ~... 62 Sunday. s,~· "'~g:t
,0"•<.j''<f'\./ ,, -..• , , , ., C:i)t 
~~~q~~ ~ ·i!!1 C1 
S~~e',; T-;,~~ Aain ;;~~~ ~~t· -,c~ -Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cfoudy 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet • 


him and 15 friends into the game. 
He also told police one of Baskerville's friends told him he could pay his way into the stadium and that Baskerville had been taking money to let fans into football home games for about 10 years, Bushing said. 
When arrested, Baskerville told police he started taking cash from fans about three years ago, Bushing said. 
Tickets cost $40 for Saturday's 
Friday 

. 
Ballroom Dancing Lessons: Studebaker Park, Elkhart, 7:30 p.m. -8 p.m. 

. 
Film: "The Dinner Game," Vickers Theater, Three Oaks, o::{O p.m. and 9 p.m. 



Former UVA player waits for heart 
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. 

Despite the loud, systematic clicking and s.wishing noises of the LVAD machine -his artificial heart ­and the protruding of a tube connecting the machine [a small, blue, computerized box] and his body out of his chest, 22-year-old University of Virginia football line­man Mark Lindsey appears suprisingly normal and healthy; so much so that one ahnost believes that this is merely a mundane, weekly stay in a hospital when, in fact, he has be·en here for almost four months. "Mark's just going in for another tune-up," said Dottie Lindsey when her son was hospitalized yet again this June. He has reml!,ined there since, waiting in a line that, accord­ing to Life magazine, includes over 50,000 Americans: he awaits a heart transplant. And the wait is becoming a lengthy, trying one. The average amount of time a person waits for a heart transplant typically is between 60 and 90 days. Mark has been waiting for over 160. Mark explained that finding a heart match is extremely difficult because the blood type and. most critically for Mark, the size must match as well. "Because I'm 6-foot­6, a normal heart won't work for me," he said. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather"' forecast for noon, Wednesday. Nov. 10. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
game against Texas A&M. Students pay half of regular ticket cost. 
Athletic Ticket Oilice Manager John Anderson said he had heard of ticket takers at other universities accepting cash to let fans into sporting events, but none at UNL "That's just totally wrong," Anderson said. "It's one of the dangers of hiring people. You just have to trust them to do their job." 
Anderson said Baskerville did not work for his ollice and that he did not know of the situation before Monday. 
Butch Hug, director of events for the Athletic Department and Baskerville's boss, was out of town Monday and could not be reached for comment. 
Officers watched Baskerville during the home football game against the University of Kansas on Nov. 2 just after receiving the tip hut did not see any wrongdoing, Bushing said. 
Saturday 
. Irish Dancers: Media Play, Mishawaka, 
5:30 p."m. 
. Winter Sports Show: 
Century Center, South Bend, 9 a.m. -7 p.m. 
.,,...... ............. 

Cl 1999 AccuW.eather, Inc. COLD WARM S1A1l0NARY 
----­


Pnu:tura: 
® © . rnCJ . C2JG 
Hlg,h Low Shower• 'Rain T•storms Flunle-s Snow lee 
Via AsSOCll!JtfW Pf8.5.S 
Atlanta 75 51 Las Vagas 73 56 Portland 54 45 
Baltimore 71 48 Memphis 74 54 Sacramento 65 50 
Boston 65 50 Milwaukee 59 41 St. Louis 72 53 
Chicago 64 42 New York 69 51 Tampa 84 57 
Houston 80 57 Philadelphia 71 48 Wash DC 74 53 
, \ ~....W--IP'.',W-.-,0¥­
' '. \ ' 
Wednesday, November 10, 1999 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 






Clinton: Women's involvement vital to politics 
• First Lady addresses Women's Leadership Forum of the DNC 
Hy COLLEFN McCARTHY 
W,"hingum Cn1rcspondtnt 
It is Psstintial l'or women Lo vol11 in l'!ections and bn morn i11volvnd ill polHi,:s in ordnr to maku sum lhal issuns al'fect­
iug wonrnn. famili1\S 
and chil­clrnn arn add rPsst•d, said First 
I. a d y II i I I a r y Clinto11. 


C I i n lo n . Clinton speaking lo th t! W o 1111• n· s L«i a cl ors h ip Fortlln ol' 1111• l>nmocratic 
Nal ioirnl Com 111 itlHt! 011 Ttwsdny in Washington ll.C.. P11courag1•d womr.n in tho a11dit•11ct1 to makP tlwir voicns hoard in tlw upcoming 2000 t\l11ctio11s. 
"l\s good as timns havn hnen llir. past s1w1H1 yt\ars. them is still work to lw do1w." Clinton said. "Wn lrnvt\ to conlinue to bring women's voic«!S Lo the l'ornfronl so wti can continue to makn cl<~ar Llw issur.s that w1i 1·ar1! aboul." 
The First Lady pointed to women as being key in legis­1ation cnactod during the Clinton Administration which impacted women and fami­lies. 
"Biirause women spoke out, fivn million nnedy children have health insurance who were previously uninsurud," she said. "Because women spoke out.. tho Family and Medical Leave Act was passed and extended to 20 million Americans." • 
Critics have said lhat womrrn's increased involve­ment in politics has resulted in the "t"cminization of poli­tics," Clinton said. 
The First Lady said this 
d,iscription is inaccurato. ~omer!. speaking out o~ issues dear to our hearls has resulted in what she called "an important change in the political landscape of America. 
"I think a more accurate d11scri.ption is that we are working f'or the humanization of politics." said Clinton. 
The need for women's voic­os to Im heard in politi~al issues. she said. will draw grciatnr attention to needs of American families. 
"In an America that truly valued families. we would have an expanded Family Lnave Law," she said. "No American rather or mother should have to choose 

between a .iob and leaving Congress. the child they love." Clinton also pointed to the 
Clinton cited increased need for Congress to pass a funding for education initia­minimum wage increase in tives as an issue affecting order to better the economic Americans. situation of millions of 
1'1n an America that truly Americans, particularly v.alued families, we would women who would be most 
ensure that evnry child gel a world­class educa­tion by reduc­ing class sizes and inr:reas­ing account­ability," she said, adding that llie Hepublicans arc currently reneging on their promise to vote lo t'und classroum ini­tiatives to reduce class 
affected by an increasn 

"In an America that truly in minimum wage.
valued.families, we 
The First

would ensure that every 
Lady called child get a world-class for Congress to allow for
education by reducing 
universal

class sizes and 
Medicare increasing coverage of prescription
accountability." 
drugs for senior citi­Hillary Clinton zens. Two­
First Lady thirds of Medicare be n e fi c i a ­ries cur-
sizes and put qualified teach­rently have inadequate or no ers in classrooms. prescription drug coerage, 
The First Lady signaled out she said. the r!f~ed for increased gun "In an America that truly control laws as a way for valued families, there would Amorica to show it values be a push for prescription fa.milios. drug coverage for senior citi­
"We need to keep guns oul zens," she said. "No senior of the hands of criminals and citizen should havo to choose pass common sense gun between food in the cupboard laws," she said. "The gun and drugs in the cabinet." lobby is calling the shots in If women continue to make Congress. It's time to say their voice.s heard through enough is enough, let's pass voting, attention could be the legislation that the drawn to the wage gap in President is sending to America, said the First Lady, 
citing the statistic that women makn only 75 cnnts for every $1 earned by men. "We need to nnsure 11qual pay for equal work," she said. 
Tenured women professors at tlrn Massachusetts lnstitutn of ·1\~chnology recently dis­covered I.hey wern not rnc11iv­i n g r.ompe.nsation and full bennfits equal to their pnnrs. said Clinton. 
"If this is happening to tenured wom,\n professors at M.1.T., some of the top scien­tific scholars in the world. it can happnn anywhnrc," sho said. "The wage gap is a reality from college r:'ampuses to factory floors. We can no longer tolerate that." 
In order to enable Anrnrica to continue progressing and paying attnntion to the neods of women, children and fami­lies, women must voto. said Clinton. 
"We have seen the changes and progress in Anrnrica becaus11 millions of women have made their voices heard at tlrn ballot box. I believe that if women understand what is at stakn in an elec­tion. women will vote," she said. "I shudder to think of the revorse of the progress that has benn made in the next contury if we elect a Hcpublican to the Whito House and a Republican majority in Congress." 
Prof: Intellectuals, worker ties important in labor relations 

Friday and Saturday vs. Alaska Fairbanks 7:00pm
BoB Fi~st l0Ostudents get free.~i,~a! 
½@Vfs rrict;~~a!t~~t~:~y~;t
K.B Toys 
.. 

By ERIN LARUFFA 
News Writer 
Tics between workers and 
intellectuals are important in the 
labor movement, according to 
Notre Dame sociology professor 
Robert Fishman. 
Fishman is currently working on a project entitled "Social Ties and the Quality of Democratic Life: Workers and Intellectuals in Contemporary Spain." 
For the project, Fishman stud­ied 49 industrial cities in Spain. Part of his study involved sur­veying local leaders f'rom politi­cal parties and unions. 
The results of the study indi­cate that social ties between the two groups define the context in which people discuss their local politics, Fishman said. 
Workers linked to intellectuals are more likely to make broader connections between local prob­lems and global issues. Those workers tend to discuss issues such as national policy as well as local social and economic issues. 
"The [global] connections are 
drawn by people who have ties with intellectuals," said Fishman. 
The ability of the intellectuals to listen to the workers is also important, Fishman said. lie explained that listoning leads to meaningful conversation, which in turn helps get results in the labor movement. 
Workers who are not connect­ed to intellectuals arc more like­ly to focus on local issues, such as saving a few hundred jobs at a nearby factory. instead of con­sidering larger economic issuos. 
"I hope some ol' thn conclu­sions will bn interesting ... !'or the understanding of the United States and other countrir.s as woll," said Fishman. 
Despite the importance of con­nections betwnen workers and intellectuals, such connections appear to bn declining. 
"If these tics are declining, ... what will the consequences be?" Fishman asked. 
Fishman received the Kellogg Faculty Residential Fellowship, allowing him to work on his cur­rent project. 
Men's Baskethall Thurs. vs. Marathon 7:30pm Joyce Center 
~WomBl'S Soa::er ~ NCAA 2nd Round 
Sunday v. Evansville/Dayton 1:00pm Alumni Field First 200 Students Free! 
, ...,.. 1111!9_, .,,_-,-"".-:,, 
' i ·' 
Ex Corde 
continued from page l 
more of the faculty as role mod­els." 
The mandate r,omes out of the 1983 Code of Canon Law, a docu­ment which acts as the foundation for several debated clauses in the proposal. Canon 812 prescribes the mandate. Thus, it is not new. it simply represents the enforcement of Cauon laws already in existence. 
The proposal makes othPr stipu­lations about the makeup of Catholic universities. It requires the majority of a school's board of trustees to be Catholic and that "to the extent possible, those commit­ted to the witness of the faith will constitute a majority ol' the facul­ty." The document also requires that the presidents or Catholic col­leges and universities be Catholic themselves. 
At the same time, the implemen­tation document repeats Ex Corde Ecclesiae's stated respect for free intellectual inquiry. 
"This fundamental purpose and institulional autonomy must be respected and promoted by all, so that the university may effectively carry out its mission of freely searching for the truth." the draft reads. 
History of Ex Corde Ecclesiae 

Balancing institutional autono­my, academic freedom and fidelity to Church teachings have caused this draft proposal to be a long time in the making. 
The debate about the role of uni­versities in the Church can be traced back to 1967, when a group of Catholic university presidents and administrators, led by University president emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh, draft­ed the "Land O'Lakes" statement. This declaration established the more independent spirit of Catholic colleges and universities that has guided many of them ever since, 
"The Catholic university must have a true autonomy and academ­ic freedom in the face of authority of whatever kind, lav or clerical, external to the acade~1ic communi­ty itself," it read, 
As the years went by, some Church leaders felt the universities were drifting too far from the fold of the Church, and from its teach­ings. 
Pope John Paul II told an assem­
bly of Catholic edu­cators in 1979 that they should adhere to the magisteri­um, or teaching, of the Church at their universities and truly manifest the Catholic nature of their institutions, for this i,s their lasting identity. 
"The term 'Catholic' will never be a mere label, eithM added or dropped accord­ing to the pres­sunis of various forces," he said. 

"The Catholic university sulting. 
must have a true The draft they issued for r.onsid­
autonomy and academic 
eration in 1998
freedom in the face of 
contained many authority ofwhatever of the juridical clements request­
kind, lay or clerical, 
ed by Laghi, but
external to the academic 
drew fire from community itself" educators, including Malloy-and Monan. 
"Land O'Lakes" statement 
"NCCB approval1967 of this draft docu­
Over the next decade, Vatican 
officials laid the groundwork for 
Ex Corde Ecclesiae, producing the 
revised Code of Canon Law, draft­
ing the "Proposed Schema for a 
Pontifical Document on Catholic 
Universities," and meeting with 
university presidents, including 
Malloy, on the apostolic constitu­
tion itself. 

In 1990, Pope John Paul II issued 
Ex Corde Ecclesiae, and national 
bishops conferences established 
systems to implement it. The U.S. 
implementation subcommittee, 
chaired by Bishop John Leibrecht 
of Springfield-Cape Girardeau, 
Miss., debated and met with edu­
c a tors until 1996, when they 
brought a proposal to the General 
Assembly for a vote. 

The 1996 proposal, which 
•enjoyed strong support among edu­cators, did not include Canon 812. 
Nor did it mandate that a majority of faculty be "faithful Catholics." 
The NCCB voted 224-6 in favor of the draft, but it was rejected by Cardinal Piu Laghi, head of the Vatican Congregation for Catholic Education, who asked that more juridical elements, including the mandate for theologians, be indnded. 
The NCCB subcommittee returned to the drawing board, this time with a group of bishops who specialized in Canon law con­
ment would be 
profoundly detri-· 
mental to Catholic higher education," wrote the two, arguing that its legalistic tone would destroy the healthy dialogue that currently exists between bishops and university presidents. 
Concern focused on the mandate for theologians and on require­ments that Catholic presidents take an oath of fidelity to the Church and that the president and a majority of the trustees and fac­ulty should be "faithful Catholics." 
After further discussion, the Leibrecht's implementation com­mittee produced a revised docu­ment, issued in September. This new document toned down some of the most juridical language, but still contains the requirement for a mandatum and draws criticism from university presidents. 
Whether that criticism is shared by the bishops will be discovered Wednesday. 

____. Canon8.12:"thosewhoteach theological ~ubJects In any institute of hl;gh~.rlea11Jt:9g nmst have a mandate f~o~ th~ ~~ffepetent ecclesiastical a4t1fl:IJ1J;y/'· · 
Xnatora Pontifical 
··. ·illic Uj1ivcrsitics." the brdeEcc/esi.1e. i.s issued. 

TJ1eNationalconfereuce of Catholic Bishopsvotes 224-6 to approve I.J;S.1mplementatlon of ti;lirt,uices are rejected 
.· ,,,,·, ·, ,,..'.· ', .}i~£~lilmittee revises the gr~in,a~u;es an(!presents them for . diS®SiO)l. 
1999 Moterevisionsare made and the NCCB GeneralAssembly meets to vote on them. 

AMY CROWNOVER/The Obse,rver 
1978 

comri1unityitself." 
KarolWujtyla becomes Pope John Paul IL 
·c,·wm never be a dded OJ' dropped cssures ofvarious l?auHI tells agroup u.cators. 

Revised Code ofCanuon faw includes 
,.-:---~~,... 
... ATTENTION­
~ 
uNoERGRAouATE AND GRADUATE 
STUDENTS 
WORLDWIDE 
ENTER.COM 
PURSUE JOB 
AND INTERNSHIP 
OPPORTUNITIES 
THAT SPAN 
THE GLOBE 
. . 
h . 
\ mpusCareerCenter.com
~ !he world's largest campus job fair 
Vi sit. The ·Ohse, http://observ 



Domino's Pizza Delivery to NDISMC/HC 
271-0300 
'EARLY WEEK SPECIAL! 
Every Monday, Tuesday, & Wednesday 
The weekend isn't too far away... 
r----------~--------, 
I 2 Large Pizzas w/ Cheese 1 
I $BM Il $1 Per Topping : I Add Breadsticks for $1 I 
I Good every Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday I I Visa/Mastercard/Discover and Checks Welcome! I
L ___________________ J 
orld 



Wednesday, November l0, 1999 COMP(LED FROM THE OBSERVER WlRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Catholic honor student expelled for Web site content 
BAHDONIA. N.Y. 

A 15-ynar-old Catholic high school honor studtint t'X[Wllt\d lrnca.usc his Web sit,, was dnnHwrl violPnt and pornographic has sued for $1 millin11. l'Pt1•r Ubriaco says his sitn is funny and ir-rt!vcront. "liwn a private school student donsn'l loso Lim protnctions of the U.S. Co11stit11tio11," Uhriaco's attorney, Georgn Slrnbitz, said Tuesday. "And he certainly doPsn 't losP thmn in the comfort and security of' his own horrn:." The suit also seeks to Pxpungn the expulsion from Ubriaco's record. Ubriaco was e1qrnllcd last spring from Albert.us Magnus lligh School in Bardonia, whirh is run by Dominican nuns. On Friday, lw filed the lawsuit in Manhattan l'oderal 1:ourt. allt\ging that llrn school violated his constitutional rights, its own rules and its con­tract with his purt•nts by nxpolling him. 
Affirmative action to end in Florida universites, contracts 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. 

c;ov. fob Bush sigrrnd an HXfJCUtivn order Tw•.srlay wiping out racn and ethnicity as fac­tors in Florida university admissions and bar­ring racial st't-asidns and quotas in state con­trading decisions. Tlw HPpublican governor said his progrnm "trausccmio<l" affirmative action and would unilfl Floridians. Bush's plan guarante(is statP university admission to the top 20 pnrcnnt of tlrn state's high school s1111iors. adds $20 million to the state's finan­
i:i a I aid budgPt and makes it nasier for minority busi1wssm, to bn cnrtilfod to work 111Toss th,• stale•. Somn of !Im proposals must bn approvnd by thn Lngislaturn. "We can i111-rPas<' opportunity and diversity in tlrn st11t1i's universities and in st.ahi contracting without. using policiPs that discriminate or that. pit. one racial group against anothnr," Bush said,at a news confcrnnce. 
France grants unmarried couples new rights 
PAHIS 

Franc1i's Constitutional Council on Tuesday approved a law granting extensive legal rights 
l.o unmarriod couples. including gays. After a year of lrnatod dcbatn, tho National Assembly approved tlrn law in October by a vote of':{ 15-249. Conservative lawmakers had asked tho nin,~-rncmber constitutional watch­dog group to dncidc whether the law violated tho constitution, in which case it would have been void. Tho law will take effect in the com­ing months after President Jacques Chirac signs ii as a symbolic g()sturn. The law would affect the 4.4 million heturosexual couplns who livn together but am not married. The number of gay couples is unknown. 
•dhiirtlliil@Mlttl
Dow AMEx: 
812.3 I 

JONES +U4 Nasdaq:
-101.53 3125.04 
0 
-I H.93 NYS~~ 
(125.99 
-4.3R 
S&P 500: 
Composite
1365.28 
Volume:

10,617.32 -I 1.73 850,950,000 
VOLUME LEADERS 

i;;g::i.&:6liX  Il;i;l!iH  ?II ,1ii1W~li  I f;Hti!:ill  2:11;u;:1,  
CHARTEI\ COMM-CL  CHTR  tl9, 71  +3.7500  :22.7!1,  
MH!ROBOl''r CORP  KSP'T  -1.18  -1.05"75  U.88  
ClBCO SYSTEMS  csco  -LU  -l.Ori25  14 .lS.  
BOV&RUGN BANCO AMAZON.COM INC  SVRN ..,...  -t9.H -9.2:1:  +O.H.88 -'7.1900  8. 78 70.81  
01:LL COMfUTER  DELL  . l.08  +0,'350  tO .Sf,i  
STAPi,ts INC PP':tZl:R INC  SPLS...  +0.36 +O. S!'i  +O, 0625 -Hl.l100  17. 50 35 .06  
LUCIINT TECH INC  LU  +1, 7t  +1,USO  72 .62  
'l'YCO INTL LTD  TYC  -+4, 97  +1. i950  42.U  

Ehud, Barak disagree on resolutions 
contention, repeated several times Jordan weighed in Tuesday, with its
A.ssociated Press 

over the past two days, that U.N. reso­ambassador to Israel, Omar a-Hil'ai, PARIS lutions calling for Israel to return cap­rejecting Barak's comments on the 
Yasser Arafat and Ehud Barak tured lands "have a different context" resolutions. He said they apply to all entered a Paris conference hall when referring to the Palestinians the territories Israel capturnd in Tuesday shaking hands vigorously, than when referring to Arab nations 1967. but their cordiality quickly dissolved with recognized borders. A-Rifai told Israel radio that "242 into a dispute over language in U.N. B1,rak has been insisting that and 338 includes all land occupit\d in rnsolutions on territory claim{id by Israel's security concerns must be 1967. International law." both sides. taken into account when determining Barak did not. rpfor to the issue in 
Palestinian leader Arafat gave the how much land should be given back his speech to the 21st Socialist more strongly worded speech, telling to the Palestinians. · International Congress in Paris, but socialist delegates he expects Israel to The Palestinians, for their part, gave an emotional explanation at a five up to past commitments, and to interpret U.::'-J. Resolutions 242 and news confon~ncn later. respect international law. 338 as calling for Israel to return all "The Middle East. is still a rough 
"Our Palestinian Arab people am occupied lands. neighborhood," he said. "We can't act still knocking on the door of interna" It wa!m't clear whether Barak and as ifwe wern ballooning over Western tional legality," he said. "International Arafat discussed the issue during a Europe." legality is pivotal in the search for a 20-minute private meeting Tuesday Ile again enmnnratPd the threats lw just and comprehensive peace." on the sidelines of the Socialist gath­sees Israel l'a.dng; a wave o!' Islamic 
It was a clear reference to Barak's <wing. fundamentalism. 

Associated Press 

NEWPORT, RI. 
Nine days after EgyptAir Flight 990 went down, the banged-up flight data recorder -minus its "pinger" -was raised from the ocean floor by a robot Tuesday and rushed to Washington for analysis. 
The National Transpor­tation Safety board said it was extracting data from the recorder Tuesday evening. A statement from the board had no comment on the quality of the data recovered so far. 
The minivan-size robot 
Deep Drone stumbled across the dented box amid wreckage 250 feet below the surface. ll was missing its pinger, the transmitter that emits a signal to help investigators find the recorder after an accident. 
The tape could provide the best evidence of what caused the Boeing 767 to plunge into the sea Oct. 31 off the Massachusetts island of Nantucket, killing all 217 people aboard. 
"It will paint a picture of the ,..-ttjrcraft moments before the accident," NTSB chairman James Hall said. "In any aviation accident investigation, the most important informa­tion comes from the recorders." 
The night recorder cap­tures information from 55 systems on the jet, telling investigators such things as the plane's altitude, speed, spin, roll, when electrical power was cut off and how the autopilot functioned. The NTSB said it can record more than 150 indi­vidual data items. 
Deep Drone continued to search for the other "black box," the cockpit. voice recorder, which contains tape of conversations between crnw membnrs as well as discussions with air traffic controllers and any other sounds in the cockpit. 
As the search continued, a Coast Guard helicopter flew over the crash site and dropped flowers that had been left at a memorial service Sunday by grieving family members. 
Flight 990 took off from New York's Kennedy Airport for Cairo and fnll 33,000 feet into the Atlantic about 60 miles south of Nantucket. 
No distress call went out from the crew. 
-­ 
'  ~·  
page6  The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS  Wednesday, November 10, 1999  

Hesburgh up for Congressional Gold Medal 

By LAURA SELLINGER News Writer 
Congressman Tim Roemer introduced legis­lation in the U.S. House of Representatives last May t 0 award a Con­gres­sional Go Id Medal to Fa­t h e r Theo­dore Hes ­burgh. 
Hesburgh, who served as president of Notre Dame from 1952 to 1972, received the honor in recognition for his out­standing contributions to American society in civil rights. higher education and the Catholic church. 
"Awarded once a year, the medal is one of the highest honors the federal government can bestow upon a civilian, and it is by no means routine," said Dennis Brown, asso­ciate director of public relations. Only about 250 Congressional Gold Medals have been award­ed since the accolade was first presented to George Washington in 1776. 
The bill, S-1332, was voted and unanimously approved by the House of Repres1rntatives on Oct. 12 and is currently await­ing passage in the Senate. It has 14 cosponsors and requires a total of 67 for passage. As a result, other senators are being asked to cosponsor the legislation to award llesburgh the medal. 
"The gold medal is a fit­ting tribute to Father Hesburgh. His leadership has inspired generations of Americans: as a leader for civil rights, an educa­tor and as a humanitari­an," said Roemer. "He has had several outstand­ing careers, both in public service and as an cduca­tor. Despite his reLire­mcnt, Father Heshurgh continues to make valued 
contributions  to  the  
United  States and  the  
global world."  

Having held 15 presi­dential appointments, Ilesburgh's involvement in national and global affairs ranges far and wide. Hesburgh was a charter member of the 
U.S. Commission on Civil Bights from its creation in 1957 and served as the commission's chairperson from 1969 to 1972. With the long-awaited passage or the Omnibus Bill of Civil Rights in 1964, he helped to establish equali­ty among all Americans. 
"This was one of the things that I enjoyed and admired the most because it changed the face of America and made it a place of freedom for all people," said Hesburgh. 
Hesburgh received the Medal of Freedom from 

Lyndon Johnson in 1964. 
another one of the 
nation's highest honors. 
Hesburgh is also recog­
nized as a national and 
international leader in 
higher education. With 
more than 130 honorary 
degrees, Hesburgh 
received the Elizabeth 
Ann Seton Award from 
the National Catholic 
Education Association. 
"The University of Notre 
Dame is the greatest 
place on Earth. Every 
place has its feelings, but 
there is the highest con­
centration of good at 
Notre Dame, and the stu­
dents are wonderful," 
said Hesburgh. 
Hesburgh has also con­
tributed to the Catholic 
church in many ways, 
which is one of his great­
est missions in life. 
"It is always nice to be 
recognized for awards, 
but the real distinction is 
trying to be good at what 
you do," he said. "For me, 
what is really important is 
to be a good priest and 
help others -that is the 
real test. 
Hesburgh served the 
Catholic church from 
1965 to 1970 as the per­
manent Vatican represen­
tative to the Atomic ener­
gy Agency in Vienna and 
as a member of the Holy 
See's delegation to the 
United Nations. 
For these services and 
others, the president is 
authorized to present a 
gold medal to Hesburgh 
on behalf of Congress. 
Specifically designed for 
Hesburgh by the 
Secretary of the Treasury. 
the medal will feature 
emblems and inscriptions 
symbolizing his outstand­
ing contributions. 
Other notable recipients 
of the Congressional Gold 
medal include Winston 
Churchill, Mother 
Theresa of Calcutta, 
Robert Frost, Rev. Billy 
Graham, South African 
President Nelson Mandela 
and Ret. General Colin 
Powell. 
~'­Student Travel from A to Z 

London  184  
Paris  208  
Barcelona  244  
Amsterdam  226  
From Indianapolis  

e-ach way based on a~t purchase. Fares do not include taxes, are valid for departures ~ in November and are subj()(! to change. Rcstrictions apply. 
1-800-2COUNCIL 
www.counciltravel.com 

Senate 
continued from page I 
"I believe all the major items that are pondered arc brought forward at the appropriate time. The lack of publishing allows discussion to occur better," Malloy said. 
Malloy added that the lack of requiring the publishing of the minutes at a private institution is an advantage over public institutions. 
. "There has been a lot of progress in hiring more facul­ty," said Malloy in response to a question about increasing facul­ty by 150. 
According to Malloy, the increase in the endowment has allowed for more endowed pro­fessorships,. ~os.e professors in 
ulty. "All we need is to raise more "/ want us to have the 
money," he 

Jaculty size that is
said. "I want us 

to have tho fac-appropriate for the ulty size that is school." appropriate for the school. 
Father Edward Malloy
When I think of morci faculty, I University president think of more building space and more money for labs and . Mallov 
worked to make the cam­paign possible." 

Malloy also discussed the breaking of ground on the philosophy and theology build­ing and the performing arts center. 
addressed the 

research." increased funds for graduate students, new institutes and 
. The Generations fundrais­centers in the University, the ing campaign also was important service of department addressed. According to Malloy, chairs and the Cniversity's the fundraiser collected $820 readiness for Y2K. 
If our delicious, flame-broiled double cheeseburger were any bigger, we'd need to buy more ad space. 
Nothing beats our big, juicy Double Cheeseburger. It's got the great taste offlame broiling and has 75% more beefthan McDonald's® Cheeseburger. 
(Price and participation may vary.) 
The Huddle -Lafortune Student Center 
It just tastes better.
•

©1998 Burger King Corporation. Burger King Corporation is the exclusive licensee of the Bun Halves logo trademark. McDonald's is a registered trademark of the McDonald's Corporation. 
---_________________________..:____________J 


new areas of study and the building of more office space and labs. 
Malloy said he hopes that new faculty can be hired, but he thinks that there are other resources needed for hiring fac­million. This exceeds Generations' goal of $767 mil­lion bv December 2000. 
"This campaign [Generations] has involved a lot of hard work,'' he said. "I want to give a kudos to the people who have 
Wednesday, November I 0, 1999 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Sweatshop worker shares experinces 
Holocaust filmmaker 

By NOREEN GILLESPIE Saint Mary's Editor 
WIH'll a rcc:ruiling company canrn to Chi11 t\bad's homeland in lllC' Philippinns, slw thought that mnploynwnt in East Saipan would grant her tho opportuni­ty to nxerdst\ her rights as a human b1\ing. 
(;athnring tlw customary $2..000 doll.trs 1111enssary to huy a onP ynar work p,wmit in tho 
U.S. Commonwnalth. Abad lmardtHl tlw plaiw lo what slrn 
thought was a Lecture new begin­
ning.Details But quickly 
al'lm· board­

. Who: ing lhe plane, Abad round Sweatshop she was llying 
worker Chie straight out or a ,ww bogin­
Aball 
ning -and 

. Where: right into a prison.
Hesburgh Center 
B 1' f o r e 

Auditorium 
beginning 

. When: 4:30 thnir wnrk. /\bad and hor 
p.m. today co-workors wnrn forr:nd by the rncruiting agnncies to sign a contract that forced Lhcm to waive all rights any normal citizen of the Commonwnalth would enjoy. "W1i could nol join rnligious organizations, join or form unions or complain aboul our salaries." slw said Tuesday in a lllc:turn at Saint Mary's. "We worn not allowed to fall in love. get marriPd or get pregnant. If that happnnnd. the women wt!rc lirnd." lnsid1i the Saco Corporation factorins. where the maj,Jrity of Cap. Banana Hepuhlic, Old Navy, Baby Gap and Gap Kids 
products am manul'acturcd. t\had witnessed tlrn injustices that she and her co-workers rettes.'' She agreed, and in 
to speak tonight
experienced. March the program aired, 
Paid onlv $3.05 per hour and showing the deplorable condi­with no overtime pay, workers tions of the factories. earnnd only $486 per mnnth. Gap Inc. reduced their order 
By MARIBEL MOREY

"Inside lhe factory, there was in light of the bad publicity. 
News Writer 

a stench because there was no Angered, the corporation ventilation." she said. "Dust offered a $10,000 reward to A 5-year-old Jewish girl
llew cvcrywher~; There was no any employee who had infor­was liftml on the train as her
exhausi system. mation about the employee 
helpless father watched and

Outside the factory in the liv­who had assisted in thll 
screamed the last words she
ing quarters, the situation was footage. 
would ever hear him say.

no bottnr. Hut Abad would remain "Don't take my baby away,"In the barracks, we lived anonymous. 
don't take my baby away!"

insido barbed "No one 
he screamed. 

wire and "In the barracks, we lived knew I had 
This scene from "My Knees
taped it," she 

a r m e d inside barbed wire and 
Were Jumping:

guards," she said. "I did not 
Remembering the

said. "They armed guards. " admit it right 
Kindcrtransports," a docu­

deducted away." 
mentary examining through

$100 for food, S h o 
interviews the children sent
Chie Abad

and $100 for r e ·m ·a_' i n 'e d away from Germany in these
sweatshop worker

living in the silent until 
barracks. We drank rain­water." 
Infuriated over the lack of humane ireatmenl in the facto­ry and living quarters, Ahad began to secretly plan the for­mation uf a union that would allow workers to negotiate their salaries am.I lobby for overtime pay, 
But throats from the corpora­tion to move the sweatshop from Saipan to Hussia or Mexico forced the prnposal to be killed by only five votes in Lhe union election. Workers. she said. pulled out because thny were afraid of losing the only jobs that paid them. 
"I was so depressed," she said. "I thought if we had a union, we would have the pownr to fight this corpora­tion." 
In January of 1998, ABC News caught word of the condi­tions in East Saipan and con­tactfid Abad to lilm the sweat­shop workers with a hidden camera "no bigger than the size of a box of Marlboro ciga-

The William and Kutherine Devers Program in Dante Studies presents its jourth annualfall lecture series: 
DANTE & MODERN ITALIANil>J:i'.f'l{Yr-::::,.,3 

British rescue missions, will he held tonight at 7 p.m. at the Snite Museum Auditorium followed by a discussion with the filmmak­er Melissa Hacker. 
The documentary shows the children's pain and how they coped with murdered parents and lost homes. 
This British rescue mis­sion, the Kindertransport Association. saved more than 10,000 children from death in concentration camps. Persecuted Jewish children traveled alone to London escaping the ill fate that awaited their parents in Nazi Europe. Many of these children expected a quick reunion with their parents, but 90 percent of these par­ents never survived World War JI. 
In this documentary, Hacker presents the lives of several of these Kindertransport survivors including her own mother, Ruth Morley. 
"My relationship with my mom was different when I was doing this documentary because she saw that I was interested in her life and the 
Jewish life," Hacker said. 
Many of these survivors did not talk with their chil­dren about the difficult adjustments they confronted alone in England during the war. 
"This documentary is used to open up communication between the generations," 

Hacker said. 
This same communication was lacking in many or the familins who worn attempt­ing to protect each other from hato and fear. !lacker, like many childrnn of' surviv­ing Kindnrtransports. avoid­ed asking questions growing up while lwr mother did the same. 
For some of the Jewish community, the documentary showed that their parents' panic was not. uniqun, but actuarlv was connectnd to the lloh;caust. 
"My mother's panic was parallel t.o Melissa Hacker's mother's own fears," said H a b b i 
M O r I e v Lecture 
Feinstein of 
T e m P I e Details 
Beth-El, where the . Who: 
documen­tary was FIimmaker 
s h o w 11 Melissa Hacker 
Tuesday night. . Where: " T h i s Annenberg panic was Aullitoriumat 
also passed on to me. I the Snite 
would have . When: 7 p.m.
nightmares of people tonight 
coming to the door to take us away and would also fear crowded areas in which I had no con­trol." 
The documentary had very positive responses from the viewers at the Tnmple Beth­EL "The documentary was excellent. but a little too rep­etitious," said Birgit Metzger, a Kindertransport evacuee. 
The driving force for Hacker's inspiration, howev­er, is the love and compas­sion for the survivors of the Holocaust which reflects in its success. It was presented around the world, including at the Sundance Film Festival. 
"It was a very moving story although it's a small portion of the llolocaust which is rarely told and less spoken," Feinstein said. 
Jan. 13 of the following year, when Abad 

and Global Exchange announced a $1 billion class action lawsuit against 21 major retailers. Nordstrom, J. Crew, Gymboree, Polo Ralph Lauren, Donna Karan. Van Heusen and Dress Barn, Inc. were named in the suit for violating the Fair Labor Standards /\r,t in East Saipan. 
The lawsuit was followed by action from the Equal Employment Commission. who filed suit with the corporation for pregnancy discrimination and violation of the Civil Rights Act of 1961. Within a month, the corporation paid over $75,000 to 24 women who had been fired because they got 
pregnant on the job.  ·  
Then Abad was fired.  
"I  was  a  headache to  the  

company," she said. "I helped these pregnant women. I was fired. but I am not defeated." 
Abad will speak today at 4:30 
p.m. Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 

INTERESTED IN SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY, AND ETHICAL QUESTIONS? 
Moral Issues surrounding technolouv assessment. bioethics, human geneucs, environmental management, computerization, and architectural design confront us
Rb 1West 
evervdav.
e ecc<}"/'f" i 

Univer~Jty ~~:;:~hicago 

To explore these problems In depth, Investigate the unique Notre Dame STV Program. This is aminor requiring 15
4•5'.:!''i:;;~t:i'.~t:~:~~;!'!::~,i,;:'.'~'.:i!t' 

hours of course credits that can be lallen bV students In
Thursday, No'v~mber1J,.JT~ 4:30pm 
anv coneue. Within the STV Program vou mav develop con­

-·... ,· .··,.. ;r:;:-,::,::::::::: ., .;w,j~irP'"''~,,-~ 

centrations In spoclflc traclls emphasizing STV ln1erac­Uons with Business: Environmental Studies: Pro-profes­
, ::J:~w'i'., 
.;.,:. -->·•-,' .;>_,... .,:::::\=/::: 

sional studies: Phllosophv and Theolouv: Computerization
Department of'.$pi~~~i~.~ollcctions, 102 Hesburgh Library 
and Physical Sciences: and Government and Public Pollcv. 
A recc;t!~~~~theie'i~e. All are welcome. course offerings tor Spring 2000 may be reviewed by infor­
,.-«=~:$=-::~=::::::~:,-=;:;:=::•;,::m:.,.;..: 

mation obtained al 346 D'Shauuhnessy, or v1s11 our website 
•:~~;x~---··· 

at http:/twww.nd.edu/-stv. can 631-5015 for apersonal 
appointment.

for further information call (219) 631-5610 or visit ~1c Devers Web site at http://www.nd.cJu/~devcrs 
JESUS' GENDER 

Journalist: Media must pay attention 


By ERICA THESING Associate News Editor 
Troubled by decreasing crnd­
ibility, a demand for high prof­
its and the pressures of a 24­
hou r news cycle, the media 
must listen to their critics and 
their audience, Geneva 
Overholser said during a lec­
ture Tuesday night. 
Overholser, a syndicated 
columnist and former editor of 
The Des Moines Register, 
explained that newspapers and 
other news outlets are impor­
tant to their communities. The 
media must shed their arro­
gance and serve the people 
they wurk for, she said. 
Citing several studies of citi­
zen reaction to media, 
Overholser noted that 38 per­
cent of Americans polled 
recently said media is hurting 
democracy. 
Overholser explained that 
many sources of media criti­
cism exist, including magazines 
and organizations that study 
journalistic behavior. She then 
cited four problems that keep 
criticism from being effective, 
including an uneven distribu­
tion of it. Of the 1,500 daily 
newspapers in the United 
States, only 40 have ombuds­
man or reader representatives, 
Overholser said. 
"Each community needs a 
way to speak to the power that 
is held within [the media}." she 
said. "People care about this. 
They know we're powerful and 
influential." 
A good starting place, · Overholser said, would be a 
national organization that 
makes recommendations on 
press accountability. She 
explained that the media need 
to be open to adoption of an 
industry-wide standard of behavior. 
The second problem stems from the current economic sit­uation of the media. As news­rooms become incorporated and businessmen dominate top management of news organiza­tions, the emphasis on journal­is tic strengths shifts to a hunger for profits, Overholser said. She said readers would happily ally with journalists in fighting those profit pressures if they understood the problem. 
"We report on other busi­nesses far more avidly 
"Each community needs
than we do on tions, but our own," she a way to speak to the that's not tlw 
s a i d power that is held within same as hold­
"[Readers] are ing a finger lo
/the media]." 
ignorant of our the wind," she difficulties said. "You because we Geneva Overholser can't edit a aren't telling newspaper
syndicated columnist
them." 

Overholser also criticized the lack of media criticism corning out of journal­ism schools. She pointed to the medical and legal professions, which hav~i close ties with their academic r.ommunity, as exam­ples of how the two should work together. 
"For some strange reason, journalism educators and jour­nalism practitioners are quite estranged from each other. Certainly we on the practition­er side need useful research in an accessible form," she said. "We are too troubled to waste such a promising resource." 
Overholser, who served for three years as ombudsman at The Washington Post, also said that journalists aren't listening to their audience. 
"The fact is, there's a great deal of unhappiness," she said. "We need more thoughtful ways to let the citizen's voice be heard." 
Overholser said journalists have ·relied too long on old tenets of their industry, includ­ing the notion that bad news sells. 
"We overemphasize the nega­tive so much," she said. "Well. we have ridden that horse until it's dead on the ground." 
Overholser added that listen­ing to the readers should nevm­turn into pandering. 
"They want us to be the pro­fessionals. We can learn enor­
mously from 
asking ques­
the way you 

would design a product to please someone. You can't edit a broadcast the way you would design a shoe to fit someone." 
Overholser also asked audi­ence members to contact edi­tors when they feel the media has done something wrong. 
"Do not just grumble about it," she said. "Really let your newspaper know about it. I think it's really a part of citi­zens' responsibility to make this a two-way discussion with newspapers." 
Overholser is the 1999 Journalist-in-Residence at Notre Dame. Her visits to cam­pus are supported by the John 
S. and James L. Knight Foundation in conjunction with the Univ~rsity's new John W. , Gallivan Program in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy. 

,itt. 

.lf~:11 ;'· 
, -· ·<Y "L mer Service Leaming Program ee Year 2000 
lou•dot 11 l•tf•dot Hoadu,., loll lltlo• 
ISSLP is an 8-week community based summer service-learning course where students work in one of nine countries around the world with organizations and ministries meeting the needs of the poor and marginalized. Includes: Travel Expenses, $1,700 Tuition Scholarship, 3.0 credit Theology course, Preparation & Re-entry Classes. 
Qualified candidates must have strong conversational skills for Spanish speaking sites and previous experience in service-learning. 
Information Sessions?  At the Center for Social Concerns Wednesday, November 10, 7:00 pm Tuesday, November 23, 7:00 pm  
Applications?  Available at the Center for Social Concerns Due December 1 Due ASAP (Students Studying Abroad Spring 2000)  
Questions?  Call Rachel Tomas Morgan at 631-5293  

tm
C£NfER FOR 
SOCIAL 
CONCERNS 


_..,-,.._..__,...,....,------------~---..·-----·-------~..,_.....,.._ _.­
-----~ 
Wednesday, November I0, 1999 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
=============================================================================================== 
Supreme Court weighs use of mandatory student fees 
Assodated Press 
WASIIINGTON If' Tuesday's courtroom SHs­sio11 was an indication, the 
Supreme Court is finding it hard to decide whother public universities and colleges across America can keep using money from mandatory 

student l'ecs to [inance cuntro­versial rampus groups. 
As the lively, hour-long argument careened from one constitutional consideration to 

Brought to you by the Class of2000 Council 

another, Justice Antonin Scalia pondered aloud: "I just wonder if universities are going lo crumble if they can't do this." 
Perhaps not but the court's decision, expected by late .lunP, could change the way public universities and col­leges operate. 
Susan Ullman, a Wisconsin assistant attorney general, urged against changing a lung tradition. Crnating a forum where many voices can be heard is "a_Iegiti_ma~e function for any u111vers1ty, she con­tended. 
But Jordan Lorence, a lawyer repre­senting 
"your argument ... you can't have this kind of speech in the university setting" without using student activity fees. 
But Souter latnr appnarnd to defend a university's right to say "we think a Babel of voic­es is a good thing." 
.Justice Anthony M. Kennedy seemed concerned about sev­eral aspncts of the university's student foe system but also told Lorence Urn objncting stu­d en ts are "asking us to do something that is against the tradition ... of many cnnturies 
a tradition of div1irsn speech." 
Three provious SuprP111e 
Court rul­
ings are 

University of 
"The [University of likely to 
Wisconsin stu­play a role
Wisconsin] has a duty
d en ts who in tlrn jus­challenged to respect the right of t i C e S ' their school's delibera­
conscience ofthe
fee sys tern. tions.
students."
said his clients In 1977, were forced to the court support groups s a cl
Jordan Lorence 
they found unions
lawyer
objectionable. 
"Students have a First Amendment right not to speak," he said. "The university has a constitutional duty to respect the right of conscience of the students." 
If the objecting students win, state-run schools would either have to stop using the fees to finance student groups or figure out some way to exempt some students. 
The justices took turns pep­pering both lawyers with dozens of questions, and offered little insight into how they might vote. 
Justice David H. Souter at one point noted that most University of Wisconsin stu­dent groups finance them­selves through dues and other kinds of fund-raising. He told Ullman that fact undercut 
cannot 

compnl their members to subsidize political advocacy through mandatory dues. And in 1995, the justices prohibited bar groups from using portions of objecting lawyers' mandatory clues for political lobbying. 
In another 1995 decision, the court said public universi­ties and colleges cannot create a "public forum" for students by supplying subsidies and then refuse to fund some groups because of their view­points. 
Resolution of the Wisconsin dispute will not affect private schools because the Constitution's First Amendment, which guaran­tees freedom of speech, pro­tects people against govern­ment actions only. 
···--·--~-­
___ .... ·-· ___ ,___ ---­
_____.' ------········­
When traveling home for ThanksgMng break, Inormally: 
-------·------­
-. ' -:·::~---=~----·••. ---,______:'."__:__~-~:: 
ride with a friend of a friend and listen to 8 hrs. of Glam Metal. call a cab and tick my parents off. 
------.=::.:..:.= ;_::__::__:_::.::_:_:_.::~--­ 
-------­- -----------­ -------------•·---··-----~~  
-··-----­------------------­ 
-.  -------­-------------­-------------­ 

Q,  l)  
New  Reply  For-ward  Delete  Nl!s  
:/·:':  
Hey: Goto www.collegefravi?lnehi•)r-k.com. SNL in NYC, BABY! Register-your name  ,·,;,,  
on their site and we could win and live it up in N -Y -C: RT plane tickets, phat  
hotel room, txts to SNL Ll'v'E! Ll'v'E! LIVE! Yeeehhhaawwww ...  ,,. 1~:I~·r ,,  
-.,:  Later (oh yeah} feed motorhead)  ~, 1,;  ,(  ,,  
t -t  ,.  ar..-~~iw,,_  ·,1.~  current proje( • ~ ,.,,.,,,...,t ~~~-:vL.  

No purch~~e necessary, void where prohibited. Contest begins 10/15/99 and ends 11/30/99. Contest open to U.S. residents age 18 and over. Further restrictions, entry form and complete rules available at www.collegetravelnetwork_com. 
•-~--~·· FI r-.-1 -F"I I 
page 10 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday November. I 0, 1999 
,Z?ee.:.----~liiiil"' &> z~-­Student Award RecSports "Champion Student Award" recipients are selected by the Office of Recreational Sports. Honorees are chosen for their involvement in RecSports, including excellence in sportsmanship, leadership and participation. Derek Engelkemeyer is a senior Business Administration major living in Stanford Hall. Derek, a graduate of St. F~~is Borgia High School where he lettered in soccer and golf, hails from Washington, Missouri. Derek has been involved with RecSports since he arrived at Notre Dame and is currently representing Stanford in soccer, basketball, volleyball, softball and golf. Derek is a premier soccer official and participants will recognize the value of his input. ~ir_<;: :, '.;':,' i. :, Recipients receive <£~ merchandise from the A& VARSITY SHOP ... "Specializing in Authentic Notre Dame Sportswear" (Joyce Center) Jl,llVARSITY SHOPR~=r~ --·­"Specializing in Authentic www.nd.edu/--recsport Notre Dame Sportswear" Upcoming Events & Deadlines 20% of <£~ Sport T-Shirts. &ll VARSITY SHOP 'l'I' Offer expires Friday, November 19. A valid student id is required. Look for this award to appear in the Observer every other Wednesday. Students selected receive (£~ ,......L...-~..;.1....:. .... ....merchandise courtesy of \...&.--~....,..-,---... -and the vii.1'1; with two locations in the Joyce Center. The vir'lo; is open Monday-Saturday 9:00am to 5:00pm and Sunday 12:00pm to 4:00pm. (Phone: 631 -8560).  


Wednesday, November I 0, 1999 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Texan Baptists debate belief for wives to 'submit graciously' 

I wa5 juet about to listen to my new...er...Brahms CD. You? 

Just a 
Music, stickers and mind-boggling excitement. 
MUSIC Cassettes available on select titles. 

DAVE RALPH Tronceport, Vol. 2 
'----,o99EA--~ '----------,399EA------------' '----1599 EA---' 

Associated Press 
EL PASO, Texas 

Toxas' S1wtlrnrn Baptists on Tuesday rcpudiatf'd the d1momination's call for women to "submit graciously" to their husbands. 
Tho Baptist General Convention of Texas is the largest state organization (2.7 million nrnmbcrsl within the nation's I 5. 7 million-member Southern Baptist Convention and sends it millions of dollars each year. But the state orga­nization is more moderate than the national one. 
It is the first state affiliate of the Southern Baptist Convention to reject the "sub­mit graciously" stance. 
"The Bible doesn't teach that the husband is the general and the wife is a private, but yet that's how it gets interpreted," said the Rev. Charles Wade, the executive director of the Texas group. 

All but a couple dozen among about 2.200 delegates to the Texas group's annual meeting voted in favor of affirming the Baptist Faith and Message Statement of 1963 -without an amendment added in 1998. 
The amendment marked the first change in the statement of beliefs by the Southern Baptists in 35 years. It defines marriage exclusively in hetero­sexua I terms and says that husbands and wives, while equal before God, have differ­ent roles. 
"A wife is to submit gracious­ly to the servant leadership of her husband, even as the church willingly submits to the headship of Christ," it says. 
During a brief debate on the proposal, only two representa­tives spoke in favor of follow­ing the national group's lead. Paul Taylor, representing a church in Mauriceville, said he believed the amendment "speaks to the family." 
llowever, the Hev. Clyde Glazener, the newly elected president of the Texas organi­zation, and Wade had urged Texans to ignore the amend­ment. 
•@l•Oiliitu• 
Visit our Jam Central Department. 
Guitars, amps, drumsets, plus sheet music and more. 
MlTAtll(A 
249EA 




For the Entertainment Superstore nearest you, call toll-free 1-888-60-MEDIA. Now online www.MediaPlay.com 
Sole ends November 20, 1999. Product availability and pricing may vary online. 
81-8809-119 


Sun storm forecasts potential danger for satellites, power 
has created a new scale to pre­million pagers and phones out power companies and satellite the power guys." 
Associated Press 
cisely describe the intensity of of business, Baker said. operators are ready. The companies can reroute 
solar storms. He said the newWASHINGTON values "are the Richter scales of 
The sun will greet the new 
space weather." 

millennium by turning angry, 
The scales will predict theerupting into the most active 

intensity of three types of ener­part of its 11-year cycle with gy eruptions from the sun: geo­

outbursts of energy that can 
magnetic, radiation and radio

threaten satellites, electrical 
storms. 

power and spacewalking astro­
For geomagnetic storms,

nauts. 
caused by ejections of chargedOfficials at the National masses from the corona of the 

Oceanic and Atmospheric 
sun, there is a scale of Gl to G5.

Administration said Tuesday the 
The strongest, GS, warns of

approaching solar storm could electromagnetic energy power­be more di,structive than previ­ful enough to knock out powerous cycles because the Earth 
grids, disable satellites and

has more power grids and satel­
cause auroras, the so-called

lites that might be affected. 
northern lights, to be visible as
"There are bigger power 
far south as the equator. 

grids, drawing more power now For radiation storms, caused 
so the power companies are 
by bursts of protons and neu­

more vulnerable," said D. 
trons, the

James Baker, 
scale is from

the NOAA SS, the
''They better be prepared 

administrator. 
strongest, to
There are now. ffthey get a 
S1. An S5also 600 

warning, they are ready storm would

satellites, 
to act. An hour's warning be powerful

more than 
enough to kill 

ever in histo­is enough for the power 
spacewalking 

ry. that also 
guys. astronauts,

might be 
disrupt com­

affected, said 
munications,

Baker. D. James Baker 
cause memory
This year, NOAA administrator 
losses in satel­

though, the 
lites and even 

power compa­disrupt naviga­
nies and satellite operators will tion signals. be better prepared than ever, For radio storms, caused by he said. bursts of radio frequency ener-
Two satellites, operated by gy from the sun, the scale is NOAA, NASA and the Air Force, from RS, the strongest, to Rl. are positioned in orbit to warn An RS storm could cause a about hazardous energy bursts blackout of high frequency from the sun. radio signals on the sunlit side 
One satellite, orbiting a mil-of the Earth and disrupt low fre­

lion miles from Earth, will quency navigation signals for detect a rise in charged solar hours. particles and give an hour's The sun goes through an 11­warning. year cycle, building up energy 
Baker said that will be enough outbursts until it reaches what time for power companies to is called solar, max. Baker said protect their electrical grids. the solar activity is building now 
Satellite operators can protect and should peak next yi,ar and orbiting equipment by turning then tail off. 
He said the approaching solar "They are better prepared and reduce power, (WP-n go to a max should be only "average," now," said Baker. "If they get a partial brown out to absorb any about like the one in 1989. warning, they are ready to act. surge of energy from the sun, 
But this time, he said, most An hour's warning is enough for he said. 

The Asian, Black, Hispanic and Native American Law Students Associations of_,Votre Darne Present... 
•11~ 1r•tt...tfft I 

Tlf,i.·
.,~. ~ :i 
I' 

MinoritYi Law 
.. 
Uni 


The forum will feature presentations rom curie'ht lm.v students, the law school admissions office and the financial aid office. Students will also receive packets filled with information about LSAT preparation and the law school application process1 as well as sample resumes, personal statements and reference letters. 
REFRESHMENTS WILL BE SERVED FOLLOWING THE PRESENTATIONS. 
... J.,.i 
'fl'\ r1 .... I I<•'\ 

f'. 
ATTENDANCE AT THE FORUM DOES NOT GUARANTEE ADMISSION TO NOTRE DAME OR ANY OTHER LA\V SCHOOL. 
off circuits to prevent shorts, by During the last solar max, in closing solar panels, or by turn-l 989, a major geomagnetic ing away from the wave ofener-storm sent a power surge gy. Ile said operators are also through electrical Jines, burning prepared for "ghost signals," out switches and transformers spurious electronic surges that and causing an extended black­may prompt the satellite to take out in Quebec. The same storm ai~ unexpecte? action. . also knocked out some Defense 
fhe hours warmng a_Iso Department satellites, said would allow spacewalk mg• Baker. astronauts to seek the safety of A solar storm last year was the shuttle o_r the space stat10n. blamed for the loss of a r.ommu-Baker said that NO/\A also nicaiions satellite that put 40 
INTERNATIONAL FILM FESTIVAL 

Once a week the Office of International Student Affairs will showcase some of the 
most popular international films ever made. 

Visit OISA's Website www.nd.edu/~oisa/ for more movie updates. 
r---------------------,
IThe films for November and December are: I I Wednesday, Nov. 10 8 pm 
I Au Revoir Les Enfants (France)
I 
Wednesday, Nov. 17 8 pm
I 
I Muriel's Wedding (Australia) 
I Wednesday, Nov. 24 7:30 pm
I 
Virgin Spring (Sweden) 
I 
I Wednesday, Dec. 1 8 pm 
I Europa Europa (Germany) 
L _____________________ J 


YOU'RE INVITED VETERANS' DAY JOINT MILITARY RETREAT CEREMONY 
Thursday, November 11 
(ND's Army, Navy, & Air Force ROTC units pay tribute to America's military veterans) 
ALL MOVIES WILL BE SHOWN IN THE MONTGOMERY THEATRE, LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER. 
FREE ADMISSION! FREE DRINK AND SNACKS 

Starts 5:00 pm at Clarke Memorial Stonehenge (weather permitting) or 101 DeBartolo (inclement weather site) 
Fr. Hesburgh is the guest speaker Flyover conducted by Toledo Air National Guard 
Wednesday, November l 0, 1999 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 13 

Amazon.com expands 
Web offerings 

t\.,so~iatcJ l'rc» 
NEWYOHK 

Amazon.com, trying lo build iL•mlf into an online superstore, is nxpanding into both software and hardware -roal hard­ware, as in nails. sandpaper and pownr tools. 
The offorings, which were anuouncfHl TuPsday, will be available on 
mont, Banc of America down­graded Amazon's stock, which foll $7.18 3/4 at $70.82 1/4 on tlrn Nasdaq Stock Market. That erased more than half of Monday's $13.06 1/4 gain, which came in anticipation of an announcnment of expansion plans. 
In its home improvement store, Amazon will offer every­
thing from 
nails, sand­

the Weh site 
"At the current level. we paper and 

starling 
screwdrivers
find it impossible to

Wodncsday to chain­morning. justify ... an adequate saws. 1,000­Selling nnly 
return on the stock over pound table 

hooks 17 
saws and
the next 12 to 18

months ago, 
concrntn 

Am11zo11 has months." 
mixers. More become an 
than 350 

I n I. 11 r n ,, t 
manufactur­
Tom Courtney

shopping ers will 
hub. ollnri11g Banc of America analyst 
available on 

!TI ll S i (" , vidoos, auc­tions, toys, 1:lertronics and gT111•ting cards. /\t Urn 1md of Snpt1imber, Amazon was the most l'rcqunntly visited shop­ping sitP on tlw lntPr1rnt. 
Thn rww offlirings arn part or a rapid nxpansion that is cost­ing tlrn money-losing Web site lnmdrnds of' millions of" dollars. prompting some analysts to qunstion how long Amazon can conli11un lo spill red ink. In its four years in IJUsinnss, /\mazon has ycl lo repurl a profit. 
"Al tlw curr<•nl l1wnl, we find it impossihlP to justify, basnd on our fumlanwntal outlook, an aclPquale rnlurn on the stock 1iv1ir the ,mxt 12 lo 18 months," Banc 111' Anwrica analyst Tom 
I Courtrrny wrolc in a nisnarch notP. Arter T1wsclay's announce-
the site, 
including most of the well-known brands such as Stanley and Black & DeckAr. 
To build its home improve­ment store, Amazon recently bought the catalog, online and distribution operations of Tool Crib of the North, a Grand Forks, N.D.,-based company that specialiws in construction, tools and woodworking p,quip­ment. The 1(}0 members of the Tool Crib stafT are now Amazon omployees. In addition, Amazon hirnd 100 new people. 
Amazon is hoping to lap into a $145 billion market that is small online. Sears sells about 3,500 Craftsman tools on its Web site -far less than Amazon's seh~ction -while Home Depot won't ofTer e-com­merce until the spring. 


LARKIN Accomplished guitarist & folk singer 
TUESDAY, 
NOVEMBER 16 • 7:30 p.m. 
LlTitE THFATRE 
For ticket information contact Saint Mary's College Box office 
284-4626 

One Night Wiffleball 
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 11 
REGISTER YOUR TEAM IN THE RECSPORTS OFFICE 
SPACE IS LIMITED 
DEADLINE TO REGISTER IS WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, OR UNTIL FULL 

For more Information, please call the RecSports Office at 1-610 
Korean vets wan-t coinpensation 
Instead, the government is saicl Park, who is also a
• Prior settlement 
treading a diplomatic path of Vietnam veteran. lie saidignores some seeking discussions with tho Koreans consider exposed to Agent U.S. government over obliga­America a great friend but 
tions to the 320,000 Koreans feel they have betm mistreat­
Orange during 
who fought the North ed by being excluded fromVietnam War Vietnamese -more than any tho suit against Dow other nationality except Chemical, Uniroyal, Mon­
Associaced Press 
WASHINGTON 

Thousands of Korean vet­erans who fought alongside American soldiers in the Vietnam War are seeking compensation from the U.S. government for exposure to Agent Orange. 
Claiming their picas have been ignored while $184 mil­lion went to American and other suldiers harmed by the toxic defoliant. the vetnrans have filed a $1 biJJion lawsuit in Philadelphia federal court. 
Payments to Australian, Canadian and New Zealander veterans. who served in far fewer numbers than Koreans, were included in an out-of-court settlement of a suil by U.S. veterans against Dow Chemical and six other Agent Orange manufactur­ers. but efforts to include Koreans were rejected by the court. 
The pending suit against the U.S. government, which demands death and disability benefits for some 30,000 Korean veterans, also lists the South Korean govern­ment and its National Assembly as plaintiffs. But the government of President Kim Dae-jung is in disagree­ment with Nation~! Assembly members on how to pursue the claims and is not an acknowledged party to the 
U.S. lawsuit. 
Americans and South santo, Hercules, Agricultural Vietnamese. So far, no nego­Nutrition, Diamond Sham­tiations have taken place. rock and Thompson Chem­
The U.S. government has ical. filed a motion to dismiss thfl SP.nsi-tivity of' the isstrn to Philadelphia suit, claiming it the South Korean govern­is a political matter and ment is increased by U.S. challenging and South the jurisdic­Korean
"Korean Vietnam War
tion of the investiga­court. veterans suffered from tions into a Michael ·recr,ntly
illnesses related to 
Choi, a reported
exposure to Agent 
Korean mass killing American Orange used by U.S. sol­attorney in diers of civil­
by US. forces. " 
Philadelphia ians in the rep resent­village of No ing the Se Jeik Park Gun Hi in the plaintiffs, Korean assembly member early days of 
said if the casr, fails, lawyers plan to take it to the International Court of Justice. 
South Koman Embassy offi­cials said they were reluctant to comment on the lawsuit and had nothing to do with a press conference Tuesday by lawyers and a member of the South Korean National Assembly. 
The assembly member, Rep. Se Jeik Park, said he will pursue the case on behalf of the National Assembly. which he said unanimously supports the legal action. 
"Korean Vietnam War vet­erans suffered from illnesses related to exposure to Agent Orange used by U.S. forces," 
the Korean 
War. 

Park said Im also was in the United States to discuss eventual efforts to gain com­pensation for victims in that case. The Associated Press in September reported that up to 400 civilians wern killed by U.S. soldiers in the South Korean village. Some U.S. veterans acknowlndgnd wit­nessing or participating in the killings. 
More than 5,000 Kornans were killed and l 50,000 injured in the war between 1964 and 1975. Lawyers said they are trying to document how much compensation was paid by the U.S. or Korean governments, but none was made by the United States for exposure to defoliants. 
ATTENTION STUDENTS: 
WHY SELL YOUR USED TEXTBOOKS BACK TO THE BOOKSTORE FOR LESS WHEN YOU CAN SELL THEM DIRECTLY TO ANOTHER STUDENT? CAMPUSMONSTER.COM ALLOWS STUDENTS TO SELL THEIR USED TEXTBOOKS TO OTHER STUDENTS. YOU WILL MAKE MORE MONEY AND YOUR FELLOW STUDENTS WILL SAVE MORE! IT'S THAT SIMPLE. 
LOG ON NOW AND LIST YOUR FALL SEMESTER TEXTBOOKS AND GET ENTERED FOR THE CHANCE TO WIN YOUR NEXT SEMESTERS BOOKS FOR FREE!!!! THAT'S RIGHT. WE WILL HOLD A DRAWING ON DECEM­BER 30, 1999 TO FIND THE WINNER OF OUR" SEMESTER FOR FREE" CONTEST. YOU WILL RECEIVE 1 ENTRY FOR EVERY BOOK YOU LIST. THE MORE BOOKS YOU LIST THE BETTER YOUR CHANCES OF WIN-
NlNG. . . .,,, 
1 

WHEN YOU'RE THERE, GET THE LATEST SCOOP ON WHAT'S HAPPEN­
ING AT YOUR COLLEGE OR AT CAMPUSES AROUND THE COUNTRY. THERE'S ALSO A SECTION WITH UP TO DATE SCORES AND COLLEGE NEWS. 
FROM TEXTBOOK SWAPPING, COLLEGE APPAREL AND GAME TICKETS TO THE LATEST CAMPUS NEWS, IT'S ALL JUST A CLICK AWAY AT CAM­PUSMONSTER.COM 

"If we don't have it, you can't get it!" 


VIEWPOINT 
page 14 
Wednesday, Novem bcr l 0, l 999 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dani,. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Norrc Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Michelle Krupa 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINFS.~ MANAGER 
M. Shannon R)'an David Rogero 

AsST. MANAGING EDITOR 
~~ 
NEWS EDITOR; Tim Logan VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughen SPORfS EDITOR: Brian Kessler 
SCENE ErnToR, Michael Vanegas SA.JNT MARY'S EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Dalum 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Bryan Lurz 

AD DESIGN MANAGER: Bm Hudat SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers WEB ADMINISTRATOR, Erik Kushrn 
CONTROLLER: Timothy Lane GRAPHICS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 

CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-747[ FAX ....................................................... .., ... 631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................63 J-6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.cdu EDITOR IN CHIF.f................,.....................631-4542 MANAGING EDIToR/AsST. ME.................... 631-4541 
BUSINESS OFFICE.......................................631-53l3 
NEWS................. ........................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews, J@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinr. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SA.JNT MARY'S.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMSfWEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://ob,erver.nd.edu for daily updates of campus news, spores, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from che Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movie5/music for
weather for up-to-the 
weekly student reviews 
minute forecasts 
online features for spe­
advertise for policies 
and rates ofprim ads 
cial campus coverage 
about The Observer
archivC5 ro search for 
to meet the editors and 
articles published after 
staff
August 1999 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither instirurion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse adverrisemenrs based on content. 
The news is rep<lrted as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commenraries, letters and columns presenr che views of rhe authors and nor necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners to rhe Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Ob;,rver policies ,hould be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefMichelle Knipn. 

t 

~!:::.i2111tl'J 
i/ 

~~~~~~~ ~ 

Making secure investments is important 
Merely a few years ago the Dow Jones Industrial Average (a measure of the New Yorkstock market) broke its incredible record of 4,000. Champagne and ink were poured in gallons. Today it dances around 10,700. 
Are stock prices Gabriel for real? Are-they 
Martinez 
just a bubble, inflat­ed by optimism 

Like arrows in 
and/or greed? Are 

the hands
they fundamental 

of a warrior
prices, reflecting the real prospects of American firms? My answer to this ques­tion is another question: are the real prospects of American firms 2 50 percent -300 percent of what they were six years ago? Is the American economy nearly three times as productive today as it was in 1994? 
Some people argue that the market is "efficient" by which they mean that prices capture so much information that they reflect reality. If people value oranges, apples or IBM at this price, that must be the fundamental price, deter­mined by preferences and technology. Then the price of a stock reflects its real value, the value of all the present and future profits of the firm put together. 
Those who believe this say that all the downsizing, reengineering, etc., of the early 1990s is paying off today, plus the reforms of the Reagan era. Just for the sake of the argument, let's grant that cut­ting jobs improved efficiency by getting· rid of the fat, and that the Gipper's poli­cies were really good for the economy. Still, there is a simple number: 300 per­cent? Can somebody say that the econo­my has improved by that much in this decade? 
Doomsayers are nearly always right in the long run but nearly always wrong in the short run. Because of their repeated failures, people ignore the doomsayer. "Economists have predicted nine reces­sions out of the last six," goes the saying. People will believe that a "new economy" has arrived, and the financial situation is not a bubble but the new structural reali­ty. 
People have short memories -that is a fact. We forget that stock booms have happened before, fueled by euphoria about an unstoppable market, and fol­lowed by stock crashes. So we speculate in stocks -after a while, the market crashes. 
\>\/hat explains the stock boom? Over the last few years, people have being putting their money in the stock market. Demand has risen, and so have prices. The more prices rose, the more people came to the market, so prices rose more. There is no doubt that companies are more efficient and that the economy has been doing very well. But because investors not only look at future profits but also at how fast are prices rising today, more and more people looked at the same improved corporate and eco­nomic data and at stock prices and invested in the bull market-eventually, the market lost touch with reality. · 
What is the stock market'? It is sup­posed to be the place where companies (real companies, which make milk and nails) raise funds to produce milk and nails. But the enormous majority of transactions in the stock market do not go to the real firms but just are just transfers of pieces of paper among investors_ Obviously, a very "thick" mar­ket (where a lot of transactions happen) makes it easy for firms to issue new stock, because any buyer knows he can dump the firm in about 60 seconds. But since nearly every transaction on Wall Street is not directed to the specific pur­pose for which it exists (raising funds for real firms), it is very easy for Wall Street to go flying high in the sky. 
A good economic system is busy pro­ducing and distributing the material necessities for the people in it. In a good economic arrangement, the owners of a firm are deeply involved in its manage­ment. because they have their heart into that company, its products, its workers, its customers. It is a personal society, not an impersonal one -people arc impor­tant, with names and background. 
In an impersonal society, ownership of a firm can last 30 minutes. These owners are ready to dump the stock, the market, and the economy, at the least sign of' trouble. If the stock market is so high, it is mostly because demand for stocks has risen, their fundamental value is not con­nected to their price: Do not be surprised if you see the market drop whenever declining investor optimism causes demand to fall. 
The market will crash, sooner or later. When it does. all of Greenspan's careful management and all the balanced bud­gets will not save investors from sonw serious poverty. 
My advice to all of those who want to provide for their future: Find a very, very secure investment, maybn U.S. Treasuries or a very prudent company. Do not put your money in the Wall Street Casino. ff you must gamble, go to a real casino. At least there you know the prob­abilities. 
Gabriel Xavier Martinez is a graduate student in economics. fie apologizes to all economic historians for all the gross inac­curacies in this article. But alas! Ile is an economist and simplifies heroically.for the sake ofexposition. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Obserl'er. 
DILBERT 
I'LL REDUCE TURNOVER 
B'f SHOWING I CARE 
ABOUT 't'OU. 
TELL ME ABOUT 
YOUR KIDS, 
ASOK. ~---­

SCOTT ADAMS 
LE T'S SA'( 't'OU DO FOR THE 
SAKE OF THIS 
EXERCISE. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"My object all sublime I shall achieve in time ­To let the punishment fit Che aime." 
Sir William Schwenck Gilbert 
Poet 

VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, Nowmber I0, 1999 OssiRVER page 15 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Volunteer to be good hosts in 2001 

I am writing in rnspnns,• to Ken Chanlos' letter to the editor on. Tuesday, 1'ov. 9 aho11l Uw qualiLy or Lhc fans at llrn University ol"fcnnessee. I. along wilh 11i11n of my frim1ds, made thc·long trip to Knoxville this past W(~ckcmd and our l!XfWrintH'.('S can only bo dnscrihPd as the polar opposite of Knn's. Wn wnn! wnkonwd with open arms by every Tennessee fan we encoun­tf'r('d. Thny wen• courtno11s. friendly, and ovnrnll great fans. I felt likP I was at honw tlw Pntirn tinw and never received a harsh taunt or derogatory stalt•nwnt and in l'act, this was the best experi<mce I have ever had at an oppnrwnt's stadium. So please do not judge the T1rnnessee fans or students through what Knn nxpnrinnced. as from our r,xpr,ricncn in Knoxville I could not (Wen imagine this happrning. When the legions ol' orange come rolling into Soulh B1md on Nnv. 3, 2001, get rnacly for proud, knowledgcablr, and l'ri1•mlly fans. Invit,• tlH\lll over to have a drink and cxr.hange a word on col­lt1gp l'n;,thall. In our road trip. we found them to be nothing less than great hosts. 
Eric Reichle Junior Dillon Hall November 9, 1999 


Rogeau is wrong 
in Dubose shooting 
This is in rnsponsc to Vincent Hougnau's ldLHr slating that the killing of Demetrius Du Bose was not justiliml. For an associatn dnan at Uw law school, llrn lack of' knowl­l)dg1! from which he arguns his point is appalling. First. Im suggests that wlrnn it h1wame apparent that the offiCf~rs could not easily subdue DuBos1) that they should have "!ct him run away." For crying out loud, this guy is tough nnough to fight off two police of'ficers, high on multiple drugs, and is in a violent mood to hoot! Any ollicer that is willing to j•,st "lnl him run away" should be firmI. If that was your rwighborhood, with your family living thnrc, would you waut them lo let him go with the idea "thal lw eventually would have bnf\ll caught?" 
Ho11g1\all then states that they dfwidcd to usn "dnaclly form ... to subdtw a man accused of a crime 11gainst property." A crimo against propNty was just where it began. Wlwn DuBos11 decided to rnsist nrrnsl and assault Lhe officers, il upgrndnd him Lo an official felon, with all tlw rewards Lhat come with it. That is aside from his d,idsion lo use the illegal drugs that got him into this situation to bogin with. And just to clarify, when a police oflicer usm, his gun. it is not for the purpose of Lhrcnlcning nr subduing thfl tar­get. Tlw military uses ammunition that injuros and doesn't kill because it is to thoir bPnefit to wound PnPmy soldiers. l'olicn oflicers olfon use hollow point. ammunition. not b(~causn it is cheap, but hncausn when tlwy usn it, tlwy want that por­son to go down. If it kills them, so he it. That is why il is lhn police om-
cer's last resort, because as soon as they havn to use their firearm, that person is most likely going to die. Thenif'ore, thB J'act that they fired 12 times is inconsr.quential, becausr. the decision has already been made. 
I also find Hogeau's final comment where he contrasts the killing of Du.Bose to the killing of a deer by a hunter offensive and impractical for his argument. IIr, talks earlier in his letter about "living in a culture of death." Is this not a perfect example, for who but a person culturally desensitized to death would com­pare the death of a human being with the hunting of an animal"? In addition, il does not hold to his argu­m1mt, for although most deer hunters are adept enough to kill a deer with less than 12 shots. they will lire as many times as necessary to make sure that they have success­fully killed their target. They do not do this out of blood lust; they do it out of compassion for the animal lhat they have just killed. 
I am not implying that killing DuHose was the perfr,ct solution. In a pnrfect world, things like this wouldn't happen. I just wanted to say that in this case, it was the prop­er course of action for the officers. D!~an Bogeau is simply living in a dream world with an argument like the one he presented, and the fallac• ies in his reasoning need to be point­(~d out. 
Thomas Haight Freshman Dillon Hall November 10, 1999 

'Depraved New World' comic is too depraved 
I am writing in regard to the "Depraved New World" Cartoon for Nov. 2. I found it 
extremely distasteful. Payne Stewart died a week ago and already there is a cartoon in 
the newspaper. He was an unbelievable golfer that died tragically and it is completely 
unnecessary to remember him in such a way. . 
It would be like making a mockery of the rec1mt Egyptair crash. Timm are many other topics and recent happcnings that one could write about and I do not think someone's tragic death is one of them. Pleas11 use a lit.tie bit of' taste and discrntion next time. 
Joanne Davidson Freshman Howard Hall November 12, 1999 

RemeIDber to honor the veterans you study in class 
November traditionally marks the bngin-vets. All three were put together by tlrn ning of the holiday season. The day after VFW. Fort Collins doesn't even have a llalloween, thoughts of Thanksgiving, paradfl. Regional citip,s such as Colorado Christmas and New Year's Eve begin, Springs and Pueblo do have parades, but even subconsciously, to inundate our they boast a larger population of' war vets. days. Imagine being a vet and looking out on 
As holiday stress Nikolaus Olsen a parade that had everything but a crowd. mounts, we tend to It might sting a bit. forget the true reasons Whnnever the United States nntnrs a for these holidays. The Rocky foreign conflict, the U.S. military is sent in chance to reacquaint Mountain to implement the decisions of our govern-with family af'tnr being Collegian ment. These arc real people sent to light away for most of the real wars. PRopln die; they die on both year. The beauty of sides of the battle. sharing special times wilh the ones we The Berlin Wall foll exactly IO years ago love. These times ~------------------, tomorrow. As stu­can be lost in a dents today, wn whirlwind ofholi-don't remember day stress. the wall going up, 
This problem or or the war that misaligned priori-wits f'ought bnfore. tics during the holi-We don't know the day season has climate of' a society been documented that was sending many times. A its young men friend of mine said overseas to fight a her family declared war of epic propor­they will never col-tions. As students Rbrate Christmas now, Wfl read again after last about these events year. in textbooks and 
It's easy to forget take notes about the meaning of the them in stuffy lee-holiday seasons, lures. but sometimes it's Try going out easy to forget some and talking to a holidays exist at veteran about what all. For example, they saw in war. Veterans Day is Ask them how they this Thursday. If felt. I bet tlrnir feel­it's easy to forget ings won't corm-the meaning of spond with the Christmm,tfor a dif-empirical historical fcrent religion's view wc have hmm comparative holi-taught in our years day), then it's a of education. breeze to forget This Thursday, holidays like even though school Veterans Day. will still be in ses-
This year's sion, try and Veterans Dav will remember the hun­he indicative of drods of' thousands every other holiday whom havo snrvrd in the United States in wars. If you're when we don't get sitting in a history the day off. Most of class, think how it us won't even would be to light notice. those wars inslead 
Sunday's Denver of merely learning Post reported that, 
about them. even with unsea­sonably warm Nikolaus Olsen is weather, only a a columnist for the handful of people Uocky Mountain attended Collegian. lie is a Saturday's student at Veterans Day Colorado State parade in Denver. Uniuersity. The Veterans of The views Foreign Wars post expressed in this in Fort Collins only column are not knew of three necessarily those events held to of The Ohserver honor Fort Collins' 

y
C 0 T 
page 16 Wednesday, November 10, 1999
O
THE 
BSERVER 

ACE empowers teachers to serve, educate 

By. MIKE VANEGAS 
Scene Editor 
Robin Williams is perhaps the most memorable teacher in Hollywood. His "Dead Poet's Society" was the first in a long series of teacher movies that allowed Hollywood to reach out to America and advocate good teaching. 
Then there was Michelle Pfeiffer, who taught inner-city kids the value of the English language in "Dangerous Minds." Richard Dreyfuss fol­lowed PCeiffer, with his music teacher Glenn Holland in "Mr. Holland's Opus." 
And most recently, Meryl Streep has taken the role of great teacher in her film, "\1.usic of the Heart.'' 
But what does this say about teachers? 
Essentially, these films tell America that great, inspiring teachers are rare, and that only the most gifted actor can conjure the spirits that go into being this quality_ of a teacher. 
Wait, press pause. There is a teaching force 
professional educalors, build­ing a strong community life and guiding spiritual develop­men t, ACE has become a Catholic version of American pop culture. 
Just look at lhe goal of com­m unity life. Basically, it's MTV's "The Heal World" with­out the 24-7 camera work. But MTV only sends its kids to cool places like London, Seattle or Hawaii. Where else is some­one going to experience Real World, Corpus Christi? 
"It's a couple of years where you can be with people who are kind of doing the same thing for a while," said Al Stashish, associate director of ACE and former ACE teacher. "It's a lot of fun ... in a place you pr?b~~ly wouldn't go to otherwise. 
Stashish spent his two years in Baton Rouge. La., while others teach in places such Pensacola, Fla., Atlanta, Birmingham, Ala. and Tulsa. Okla. 
But wherever an ACE teacher may find himself or herself, the community life is 
typically one 
out there that of the impor­
"As a teacher, I can share 
also rein -tant and 
my creativity, my
forces helpful Catholic social enthusiasm. my love of aspects of doctrine. And learning how
life and my faith with 
no, it is not to be a
students."
Whoopi teacher Goldberg in aside from "Sister Act 2." MJ Adams the actual It is the classroom
associate director, ACE
Alliance for experience. 
Catholic E m c r 
Education (ACE), the Notre Doherty, also an associate 
Dame program that sends director and former teacher, · graduates to disadvantaged noted the "little things that Catholic schools throughout just make a big difference." the southern United States to She especially remembers how teach for two years, and earn after a rough day in I.he class­a Master's degree in educa­room. her fellow community tion. members (four to six members Of course, ACE is not a new typically live together) would program that Notre Dame has make her a cup of tea. This just pulled out of its pocket. heightened level of community The program was established development allowed for a in 1994 by Father Timothy deep understanding of friend­Scully, and has grown each ship, perhaps deeper than I.he year since. understanding allowed in the Aside from its own physical undergraduate setting at 
growth, though, there has Notre Dame. 
been a transformation. With But like "The Real World," 
its three goals of developing members do leave. According 
to John Staud, director ol' ACE, about 10 percent of the ACE recruits leave the program before their lwo years are fin­ished. Rut Staud recognizes ACE as a discerning tool in the service community. Ile real­izes teaching is not for every­one, and throughout the appli­cation process and first year of teaching, others realize the same thing. 
Rut this does not stop Staucl from encouraging students from at least finding out what ACE is and whether or not it might be a beneficial alterna­tive for a students' post-grad­uate plans. 
And for the 90 percent of ACE recruits who do make it. through their two year com­mitment, a retention rate that ranks at the top of Americorps' programs, posi­tively influencing the lives of disadvantaged children is the greatest benefit of ACE. 
"As a teacher, l can share my creativity, my enthusiasm, my love of life and my faith with my students," said MJ Adams, associate director and former ACE teacher in Charleston, S.C.. in ACE's 1998 annual report. "l do so with the intent of touching their lives, just as my mentors have touched my own." 
With the success of' such teachers as Adams, ACE has no intentions of falling from the map any time soon. In fact, teachers am only made better by those who preceded them in the program. Stashish noted his feelings of apprehen­sion knowing that several very good ACE teachers had taught the kids he would be teaching during his first year in ACE. 
But this only points to the fact that ACE is creating a level of Catholic education that turns disadvantaged schools into advantaged schools. 
How many "Heal World" cast members can make that claim? 
Puck? Probably not. 
Janet? Tempting ... but, no. 

The ACE associate director triumvirate of Al, Erner and Mary Jo? Yes. 


Photos counesy of ACE According to ACE director John Staud, ACE tops all Americorps programs with its retention rate. Ninety percent of ACE recruits fulfill their two-year committment. 

ene D 
O
THE 
Wednesday, November I0, 1999 BSERVER page 17 
SMC women welcome dads to campus 


(::J 
SENIOR. DAD'S \WEEKEND 
M_y heo.rt be(on..9s -bo 
J)adcfy 


Saint Mary's Senier Dads Weekend Schedule of Events 
"My heart belong$ to 01ddy" 

Friday Sunday 
Re14tstration. 12-5 p.m. Mass•.9;45 .a., Castno/Dance Night at Union Station. 8-12 flag~~$/Jt.det; 
..:~ ~:,:\~;wwi~::~d:~ -.,

p.m. 
Friday/Sat Saturday 
SAB Movie, "Father .o Tailgate at Heartland, 2:30 p.m, Carroll Auditorium 
Tours, College Focitbalt!jajl:.
. -~. ----.. 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE Saint Mary's Editor 
Janelle Dombrow felt awfully upsP:t when she ruined her father's 40th birthday. 
Admittedly non-athletic, Dombrow enternd a bike race. While speeding with all her might toward the finish line, a brake malfunction sent the 11­y ear-old soaring on to the asphalt, landing her in the emer­gency room. 
"I didn't cry from the pain at all," said Dombrow, who suf­fered a broken wrist from the accident. "When I did start to cry -the only time I cried over the whole thing at all -was ·when I realized it was my dad's birth­day, and instead of enjoying it, he was spending it in the emer­gency room." 
Her dad, however, didn't seem to mind. "He kept telling me it was OK," Dombrow said. 
This weekend, Dombrow and 179 of her senior classmates will open their campus to their fathers, to remember the scraped knees, broken wrists, school performances, tears, smiles and other milestones that helped them build their relation­ships. 
Among the weekend's events, including Friday night's Casino/Dance Night at Union Station, Saturday's Heartland Tailgate and Sunday's Mass at the Church of Loretto, many of the women look forward to the chance to spend time together with their fathers more than the events. For many of them, it will be one of the fa~ times in their college careers that they have the opportunity to spend a week­end with their father. 
"My dad doesn't get out here much," Dombrow said. "It's kind of sad -your dad's the one who gives you away, who watches you grow up. We haven't spent a weekend together in forever. I'm excited about it." 
For many Saint Mary's seniors, it is a chance that is much antici­pated. 
"Senior Dads Weekend is tra­ditionally one of the most antici­pated events of senior year," said senior class president Ann Pangilinan. ''There's a given tie between a father and a daughter that this weekend celebrates." 
The weekend's theme "My Heart Belongs to Daddy" was chosen with the intent of cele­brating that bond, said Senior Dads Weekend chairwoman Beth Mayer. 
"When we talked about what the theme would be, a lot of us • said that we had a t-shirt or a cup or something with that phrase on it when we were lit• tie," said Mayer. "We felt it was what we wanted the weekend to be about." 
For Dombrow. being "daddy's little girl" often meant learning to stand on her own after follow­ing her father's advice. 
"My dad has always been there for me, protecting me," she said. "When I was little, it was from the bullies -the big kids down the street." 
But as she got older, she learned to turn to her dad for advice. 
"I always call my dad when I'm stressed out," she said.• "The best advice he ever gave me was to deal with things as they come, and to focus on the moment." . Soon after that phone call, Dombrow received a letter with a picture of herself at a younger age in a ballerina costume. 
"My dad told me to remember that moment, that he had always kept that picture with hiin," she said. "My dad does that. My dad can always focus on the moment." 
It is advice that Dombrow will value long after she leaves Saint Mary's, she said. 
The wcnkend gives the chance for the women to let their fathers know that regardless of how old they grow, their dads are still needed, said Mayer. 
"I think a lot of the fathers think that now that we're gradu­ating, we won't need them as much,» said May1ir. "And for thn women who aren't as close with their fathers, this is a chance for them to get to know each other better." 
"I know that I'm still going to need him," Dombrow said, chok­ing back tears. "When I look at him on that day [that I graduate I -I just know that I'm going to cry." 
-----=====--=~---~~--=~---=============================================================================== 
NIELSEN RATINGS 

Nov. L-7 

1. 
2. 
3. 3. 
5. 6. 7. 8. 9. 10. 
Photo courtesy of ABC 

ABC's "Annie" was the fifth-rated show last week, after a large ad campaign promoting the film remake. 
Show Rating 
ER 19.5 Friends 15.5 Who Wants to Be a Millionaire 14.9 NFL Monday Night Football: 14.9 
Seattle at Green Bay Wonderful World of Disney: Annie 14.2 Frasier 14.0 60 Minutes 13.4 NFL Monday Showcase 13.0 The Practice 12.7 Jesse 12.2 
# of homes 
19. 7 million 
15.6 million 
15.0 million 
15.0 million 
..
14. 3 million 
14.1 million 
13.5 million 13.1 million 
12.8 million 12. 3 million 
Source: Associated Press 

MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

Williamson reflects on season 
• National League Rookie of the Year wishes to remain 
in Cincinnati 
As.ociatec.l Press 
CINCINNATI 
Scott Williamson gets a lot of enjoyment out of looking back on his rookie season. There's only uncertainty when he starts thinking about his fol­low-up year. 
Will he be a reliever or starter? How will he do witb his best friend gone from the team? Will he even be a mem­ber of the Cincinnati Reds? 
"I love Cincinnati," Williamson said. "It would be hard to leave a team that shows you so much respect." 
Williamson, 23, was so impressive in 1994 that he won the National League Rookie of the Year Award on Monday. He's also earned a lot of atten­tion from other teams. 
The Reds are trying to trade for Ken Griffey Jr., a hometown favorite who would give the Reds a higher profile. The Reds would have to send Seattle some of their young players in return, and Williamson's name has been mentioned in trade speculation. 
"I have noticed it," he said. "It's been brought to my atten­tion. If I get traded for a guy like that along with other play­ers, I guess you've got to take it as an honor to be traded for the No. 1 guy of the decade. 
"My home is in Cincinnati. I hope I don't got traded. If I do, I'll have to start over and go to Seattle and make the best of it." 
Williamson's rookie-season was the result of his ability Lo make ttrn best of a major change. He showed up for training camp as a nonroster player with two years of pro­fessional experience as a starter. 
He survived one cut after anothet with his 

for a guy like that to take me under his wing," Williamson said. "I wouldn't be receiving this award if it wasn't for him." 
Helinda was traded to Colorado along with Jeffrey Hammonds for Dante Bit:hette on Oct. :-rn. The trade came shortly after the Reds had decided to pick up the option year on Belinda's contract. 
"IL really broke my heart just to know he's not going to be there next year," VVilliamson s a i d . "When they 
fastball ''My home is in Cincinnati. I resigned and split-him1, uu, I ,
hope I don't. get traded. (f'I
f -in g er thought a
do, I'll have to start over
pitch, but big burden there was and go to Seattle and make was lifted no room in off my
lhe besl ofil. " 
the rota­shoulders. tion. The A week Reds asked Scott Williamson later, he 
him to try Reds' reliever ge~~ trad­relieving ed.
on possible trade for Ken Griffey Jr.
for the first time in his career. 
"I said, 'Whatever will help me get to the majors fastest,"' Williamson said. 
He had the most dominating season by a rookie reliever in the NL, going 12-7 with a 2.41 ERA and 19 saves on a team that made an unexpected run at the playoffs largely because of its bullpen. 
Williamson credits reliever Stan Belinda with helping him make the transition to major league player and reliable relief pitcher. 
"The biggest thing this year for a rookie coming into a major league clubhouse was 

Through 
his agent, 
Belinda declined to comment ou Williamson. 
There's one more uncntain­ty ahead for Williamson. The Reds aren't sure whether they'll use him as a reliever or make him a starter again next season. Their main goal in the offseason is to improve the rotation on a limited budget. 
"I don't think we've come to any conclusion," manager Jack McKean said. "We know he can go either way. It's a matter that when you get your staff settled if it came down to that, we'd discuss it with him. Right now, who knows?" 
Williams discusses 
trade rumors 
rumors of the Yankees' possi­
Associated Press 

ble interest in Seattle's Ken Griffey Jr., who won his 10thNEW YORK consecutive Gold Glove. Some
Bernie Williams still isn't 
scenarios have Williams going
sure if his sore left shoulder 
to Seattle as part of a deal.
will need surgery. 

"I listened to a little of it," he"It feels a little bit better with 
said. "Whenever you have arest. Still hurts a little, 
player of his caliber available
though," the New York for any team to grab him, IYankees center fielder said 
guess the Yankees wouldn't beTuesday after winning his third an exception. I've learned toconsecutive American League 
under­
Gold Glove. 

stand that
Williams 

nothing is
hurt the "Whenever you have a play­
written in
shoulder er ofhis caliber available 
stone and
making a div­

for any team to grab hi'm. I anything
ing catch 

c a n change.
against guess the Yankees 
Florida in wouldn't be an exception." 
Re a 11 y,
mid-June, nothing

and it both­

would sur•
Bernie Williams
ered him for 

prise me." 
much of the Yankees' center fielder second half of on possible trade for Ken Griffey Jr. When 
Williams
the sAason. He missed the finale of a two-game series in Kansas City in early September to return to New York for an MRI exam. 
Speaking during a telephone conference call, Williams was coy about bis health, dodging a question on whether surgery bad been scheduled. 
"That's information I'm not at liberty to reveal right now," be said. 
Later, he admitted that it hasn't even been determined if lie will have surgery, saying, "I do not know at th.is point." 
Williams has heard the 
re-signed with the Yankees last November for 
·$87.5 million over seven years, he wasn't given a full no-trade clause, only a limited no-trade that gives. him the right to block deals to six predeter­mined teams. 
Yankees third baseman Scott Brosius, the 1998 World Series MVP, won his first Gold Glove on Tuesday. 
"I really feel defense is some­thing that's an important part of a winning team," said Brosius, who cut his errors , 
from-2~'3". ----_..1 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at rhe Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. · 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center PHONE 631-COPY 
www.CopyShopND.com Store Hours Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm Sat: Noon-6:00pm Sun: Noon-Midnight 
WANT TO LEARN ABOUT THE LAW? ND Law School needs volunteers to be Jurors mmock trials on Dec. 4 & 5. Staff, faculty and students are welcome. Please call Gloria 
LOST & FOUND 
Lost and Found 
Lost: earring, silver and amathyst, sentimental value. Oct. 13 between DeBartolo, stadium parking lot, and Decio, 233-8672 
$$$$ Money found ...On South 
Quad...Early morning, Sunday, 
October 17 ,(Sunday before 
break) ....the sum was somewhat 
considerable, . .if ii was yours, call 
634-0970 with information. · 
WANTED 
Loving ND-SMC couple wishes to adopt.Will provide a lifetime of laughter,love,devotion and opportu­nities. S00-484-4699 code 0019 
To ouc 4am inqu1ter: all info kept in 
total confidence.Please call back 
anytime.Our prayers are with you. 
Free One Bedroom Apartment near Campus 
A family with three children seeks fun.energetic student or graduate to live in charming apartment for FREE in exchange for mutually agreeable babysitting responsibili-· ties.Fax name.phone# and brief note describing experience and interests to Walker at 233-2308. 
gmbid.com is a pre IPO start-up luxury auction web site, pioneered by Georges Marciano, the founder of Guess? Jeans. We are looking for a part time campus representa­tive to join us in arranging local pro­motions, PR, giveaways, e-mail campaigns, sponsorships, etc. Must be interested in marketing, a self. starter, !un, and a team player. Please email resumes to: reps@gmbid.com 
Kitchen Help 
Now accepting applications for part­time kitchen help Responsibilities include serving meals on a tray line and clean up. Hours: 4:30pm to 8;30pm. Meals provided Call Brenda for appointment 287­6501 Cardinal Nursing & Rehabilitation Center 1121 E. _LaSalle South Bend, IN 46617 EOE 
WANTED: TWO PART TIME EMPLOYEES TO WORK IN A RETAIL ENVI­RONMENT DOING CUSTOM FRAMING. FLEXIBLE HOURS, GREAT PAY AND STORE DIS­COUNTS. IDEAL APPLICANTS WILL HAVE CREATIVITY ARTIS· TIC EXPRESSION AND SKILL TO CRAFT. APPLY IN PERSON AT FRAME FACTORY.SCOTTSDALE MALL OR E-MAIL RESUME TO GMDALE@AOLCOM 

FOR RENT 
ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE 
HOME FOR ND-SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 
243-0658. 

WALK TO SCHOOL http://mmmrentals.homepage.com 232-2595 or mmm.rentals@aol.com 
4-6 student rental houses. Lots of extras. Huge Party Room. Washer/Dryer, etc. Dave 291-2209. 
FOR SALE 
Spring Break Specials!Bahamas Party Cruise 5 Days $279! Includes Meals! Awesome Beaches,Night!ife!Cancun & Jamaica 7 Nights From $399! Florida 
' $129!springbreaktravel.com 1-800-678·6386 
FOR SALE 

N.D. FOOTBALL TIX CALL 271-9412 
FOR SALE 

N.D. FOOTBALL TIX CALL 271-9412 
Phone Cards 669min. $20 243·9361 or 258-4805 
Beautiful brass bed, queen size, with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe frame. New, never used, still in plastic. $235 219-862-2082 SPRING BREAK 2000 
PANAMA CITY BEACH FLORIDA FROM $149 PER PERSON SAND­PIPER BEACON BEACH RESORT THE "FUN PLACE"! TIKI BEACH BAR ENTERTAIN­MENT BY BOOGIE INCORPO­RATED BIKINI CONTESTS MALE HARD BODY CONTESTS 3 POOLS LAzy RIVER RIDE WATER SLIDE HUGER BEACHFRONT HOT TUB MINI GOLF GIFT SHOP SUITES UP TO 10 PEOPLE 1-800-488-8828 WWW.SANDPIPERBEACON.COM 
'90 TOYOTA TERCEL, 84K MILES, 4-SPEED, GOOD CONDITION, $1 900-299-1608. 
Elton John tickets, face value. Call 634-4588. 
TICKETS 
WANTED NOTRE DAME FOOT­BALL TICKETS 271-1526 
SELL & BUY GA FOOTBALL TICK· ETS 277•6619 
FOR SALE BC & EL TON JOHN tix. Best Prices AM · 232-2378 PM -288-2726 

ND Football tix BOUGHT & SOLD AM -232-2378 PM · 288-2726 
FOR SALE 
N.D FOOTBALL TICKETS CALL 271-9412 
EL TON JOHN TICKETS 272-7233 GOOD SEATS..... 
I need two BC tickets Call Chuk 634-4785 
I NEED BC TIX! GA OR REGULAR! 634-2595 

NEED 2 ND-Pitt tickets. Call John 634-2795 
ELTON JOHN TICKETS 1st 10 rows 271-9330 
4 B.C. tix together 607-336-7218 

WANTED ND/BC GA Tix Jim 234-7228 . 
4 Pill Tix for sale face value dan 234-8646 

B-BALL SEASON TIX $30 CALL 4-4222 
FOR SALE: 2 BC GA'S with parking pass!! call x4523 
Need 2 BC tix. Call 634·2755 
BUYING AND SELLING NOTRE DAME VS. BOSTON COLLEGE TICKETS. CALL 289-8048. 
PERSONAL 
Gay, Lesbian and Bisexual students of ND/SMC meeting each Thurs, For info call: 
(877)631-6OUT 
High-Speed Copies, Color Copies, Binding, Fax Service, Resumes, 
Business Cards, Laminating, & a whole lot more at THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631·COPY Free Pick-Up & Deliveryl 
Spring Break 2000 Free Trips & Meals. Jamaica,Cancun,Bahamas,Barbad os,Florida,Padre.Book now for Free Meals & 2 Free Trips.Book before. Dec. 17 for LOWER PRiCES!! 1800-426-7710 www.sunsplashtours.com 
Funky GOURDS Three for a dollar!! Fun imaginative shapes 

STUDENT WORK Vector Marketing Corp. is now fill· ing p/1 cust. sales & service posi­tions. Flex. around class. Transfers avail. over breaks. $10.55 base-appt. Good resume exp. scholarships awarded, cond. apply. call·mon-wed 12:30-5:30pm 
282-2357 
Live rock and roll with ART & THE ARTICHOKES at Heartland 10 pm Friday $1 w/ ID 

Looking for a unique gift idea? How about a personalized color pic­ture calendar? Bring in 12 of your favorite pictures and we'll do the rest!!! THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center 
SMC SENIOR DAD'S WEEKEND COLLEGE TUITION -$22,000 FOOTBALL TICKETS -$150 HEART-TO-HEART CONVERSA· TION WITH DAD OVER COFFEE ­PRICELESS 
Bring your Dad to MOLLY MC GUIRE'S for a cup of coffee Buy one/Get one free 
Good only !or weekend of 11/12-11/13/99. Corner of Eddy & S.B. Ave. 
www.thecommentator.com 

Wednesday, November l 0, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
NFL 
Green: Moss will not return punts for Minnesota 
Associa1cd Press 
EDEN l'Hi\lHIE, Minn. 
Minnesota Vikings coach Donnis Creen wants Handy Moss to got his hands on the ball morn, but not necessarily as a punt returner. 
Groen is searching for other options to riiplacn Davirl ral11wr, who tori> a knee liga­nrnnl Monday night and is out • for t.hti season. 
Moss returrrnd four punts for 58 yards in Minnesota's 27-17 victory over Dallas after l'alnrnr got hurt blocking for 
One Night 
Doubles Badminton 
Moe Williams on a kickoff run­back. 
Palmer, who tore his right anterior r.ruciate ligament, will have surgery in 2-3 weeks af'ter the swelling goes down, team trainer Chuck Barta said. 
"It will be a tough loss for us," Green said. 
Grnen indicated he's leaning toward Hobert Tate or Chris Walsh to return punts. The Vikings also will try out sever­al punt return specialists on Wednesday. 
"We'll probably go with Tate, but we'll look at it and see as the week progresses," 

Tournament 
Friday, November 12 
6:30 PM 
Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 
"/n a game like that when you can't plan for it, a tough injury to a very good player, you do what you've got to do to win the ballgame. " 
Dennis Green Minnesota coach 
Green said. "Could be we pick somebody up." 
Tate and Williams will han­dle kickoff returns in Palmer's absence. 
The Vikings (4-4) insist Moss remains a possibility to return punts, too. But they are also mindful of exposing their star receiver to big hits, especially with starters Robert Smith [hernia] and .Jake Reed !groin] hurt. 
Fresh in their minds is New York Giants cornerback Jason Sehorn, who tore up a knee returning a kickoff in the 1998 preseason and was lost for the season. 
Plus, Moss hurt his hip when he made a leaping catch in the second half. 
"I don't think it's a hip point­er, so I think it's probably OK. It's probably going to be painful, though," Green said. 
Green said he went with Moss on punt returns Monday night because he needed a game-breaker. The Vikings had to battle back from a 17 -0 hole. 
"In a game like that when you can't plan for it, a tough 
Saint Mary's College Apowerful drama based on tfle 
presents 

Shirley Lauro's actual Vietn8JT1 War experien~s play of six American women. 
Jhursday -Saturday November 11 -13 .at 8 p.m. 
Sunday, November 14 
at 2:30 p.m. 
Little Theatre 
For ticket information contact 
the Saint Mary's College · Box Office at 

2844626 

injury to a very good player, you do what you've got to do to win the ballgame," Green said. 
Moss, who caught two touch­down passes, nearly added a 71-yard score on one of' his punt returns, but he tripped at the Dallas 46 with nobody near him after a nifty 25-yard return. 
"When I'm in the game catching punts it's like every­thing's coming at me so fast, at such a fast pace, that I go with my first instinct," Moss said. "But sometimes I'm hesi­tant, because I'm not experi­enced back there." 
Although Moss said he didn't want to replace Palmer full­time on punt returns, he is eager to get more involved in the passing game. 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with an Observer classified! 
See What's New at Tomass· 

Multi Topping Pizza $7.77 
Single Topping Pizza $6.97 Cheese Pizza $5.97 
Plain Breadsticks $2.37 1/2 Order $1.27 Mozzarella Breadsticks $3.27 1/2 Order $1.77 bzzarella Breadsticks with 1 Topping $3.77 1/2 Order $1.97 COMBO 1, Pizza, Mozzarella Breadsticks, and a2.liter'Botfle'~f Coke $10.77 
A!f1r 
"l

COMBO 2, 2 Pizzas, Mozzarella Breadsticks, '\ and a2!Liter Bottle of Coke $17.77 
Pizza Coupon ·"", 
. '!>~ 
·Save 


1'37 
redeemable on any large pizza expires Nov. 18, 1999 / 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, November I 0, 1999 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

Delgado may be leaving Toronto 
trailing only Los Angeles
Associated Press 
pitcher Kevin Brown ($15 mil­lion).
DANA POINT, Calif. 
Toronto left-hander Davis
Shawn Green is gone, and 
Wells also been mentioned asCarlos Delgado might be the another trade possibility, butnext star to leave the Toronto 
assistant Blue Jays
Blue Jays. 
GM Dave Stewart saidThe Blue 
' 
"Our priority it was wrong to say
Jays had Wells was on the
hoped to sign always was to sign 
block.
both Green 
him. Now, we have "Anything is possi­
and Delgado, 
to look at other ble, (but) we would
who made up 
have to be over­
one of base­alternatives." 
whelmed," Stewartball's best 
said. "David Wells is
offensive 
Gord Ash an important part of
combinations, our club, he's one of 

"f before they Toronto general 
became eligi­manager ble for free agency in November 2000. 
They had no luck in negotia­tions with Grnen, so they trad­ed him to the Los Angeles Dodgers along with a minor league infielder Monday for Rau\ Mondesi and reliever Pedro Borbon. The Dodgers met Green's price with an $84 million, six-year contract. 
Toronto general manager Gord Ash said Tuesday that Delgado's agent recently with­drew his proposal for an extension, giving the Blue Jays incentive to make another deal. 
"Our priority always was to try and sign him," Ash said of Delgado, who hit .272 with 44 homers and 134 RBIs last sea­son. "Now, we have to look at other alternatives." 
Green, who hit .309 with 42 homers, 123 RBIs and 134 runs scored, became the sec­ond-highest paid player in average salary ($14 million). 
the best lefties in the game. Teams have talked to us about 
h.
Im. " 
Meanwhile, Seattle GM Pat Gillick continued to discuss Ken Griffey Jr., with other teams. Griffey, eligible for free agency after next sea­son, asked to be traded closer to his home in Orlando. Fla., and the Mariners said they will try to comply. 
"We're just continuing to talk, that's all," Gillick said. "We've got a number of clubs we're talking to, we're trying to sort through discussions. There's no timetable on this. When it happens, it will hap­pen. It could be today, it could be tomorrow, it could be Thursday, it could be a month from now." 
Gillick said he hoped a trade involving Griffey could be completed before the start of spring training. 
"If not, we'll enter the sea­son with him," he said. The Atlanta Braves are con­sidered one of the leading con­

tender to land Griffey. 
"l don't think discussing my private business in a public forum gives me any advan­tage," Braves general manag­er John Schuerholz said. 
Another Seattle star eligible for free agency after next sea­son is Alex Rodriguez, who like Griffey figures to surpass Brown and Green when they sign their next contracts. 
When asked if anything was new with Hodriguez, agent Scott Boras replied. "No, just getting ready to play in Seattle next year, we think. It's not in his control." 
Other players whose names have been mentioned promi­nently in trade talks at the GM meetings are right-hander Andy Ashby and outfielder Reggie Sanders of the San Diego Padres an<l right-hander Darryl Kile of the Colorado Rockies. 
"We're still talking," Padres GM Kevin Towers said. "We have two or three clubs we need to talk to about Ashby. I've talked to several clubs about Reggie. 
"It takes two to tango in a trade. We're trying to be aggressive here, get something done. I think we'll get some­thing done before we leave here, I can't tell you which player. There have been a lot of offers for both." 
The New York. Mets are seeking to upgrade their start­ing pitching. 
Rockies GM Dan O'Dowd, pointing out his team finished last in the NL West in 1999, said he's spoken with several teams about a lot of his play­ers, not just Kile. 
Palmeiro wins third 
straight Gold Glove 
Associated Press 

NEWYOHK 
Rafael Palmeiro won his third straight American League Gold Glove at first base despite playing just 28 games at the position this year. 
Palmeiro, who was a desig­nated hitter for Texas in 128 games, joined Rangers catch­er Ivan Rodri.guez, who won his eighth straight Gold Glove, among the winners announced Tuesday by Rawlings. 
Palmeiro, his time in the field limited by a pair of athroscopic knee operations before the season, had one error in 27 5 chances at first. 
He hit .:~24 with 47 home runs and 148 RBIs. 
Gold Gloves are voted on by major league managers and coaches before the end of the regular season. 
Seattle's Ken Griffey Jr. won his 10th straight Gold Glove and outfielder Shawn Green, who agreed to an $84 million, six-year contract after Toronto traded him to Los Angeles on Monday, won his first. 
Cleveland second baseman Roberto Alomar got his eighth, while Indians short­stop Omar Vizquel won his seventh straight, an AL record. Shortstop Ozzie Smith set the NL mark or 13 in a row from 1980-92. 
LASALLE BOOKSTORE 
We're your source for the best theological and philosophical books-we can special order any book you need! 
Anniversary Sale! 
20% OFF ALL BOOKS . NOVEMBER 8-12 
LASALLE BOOKSTOH,~ • 234-0003 • l~salle~michiana.or~ 237 N. Michigan St. (at LaSalle), downtown So. Bend 
Now open until 6:00 p.m. Tuesday and Thursday! 
Open 10-5 Mon/Wed/Fri, and 11-6 Tuesffhurs 

The Alliance for Catholic Education 

Sarah Karr, St. Petersburg, FL 

''At the beginning of my first ACE summer, I found myself surrounded by seventy of the most 
genuine, giving, caring people I have ever comftinto contact with. All of us were entering the same program with many of the same goals in mind: service, spirituality, and education." 
Matt Johnson, Charlotte, NC 
Brian Green, Montgomery, AL 
Join us for an 

"When I entered ACE, Information meeting I knew that I wanted to 
Thursday, November 11
change at least one life. 
I know I have changed LaFortune Ballroom 
at least one, my own." 

7:00
Dave Madden, Jacksonville, FL 
Wednesday, November l 0, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
NBA 
Kidd, Gugliotta lead Suns over winless Bulls in Chicago 
-

his return to Chicago, where he pass to Gugliotta for a basket, back pass from Gugliotta. ond-round playoff loss to the
A~s11cia1eJ I'rcss 
played on three championships drove the length of the floor for Gugliotta made 9 of 11 shots Blazers last season. 
CIIJCAGO 

.lason Kidd and Tmn Gugliotta lrnlpnd Phoenix build a big lead and lhe Suns shut oIT a fourth­quarter rnlly by Chicago's bench to h1ml Lim winless Bulls 1 OJ-80 Ttll'sday night. 
Kidd. (;ugliotta and Cliff HDhinson scurnd 1CJ apiece for tlw Suns, who blocked 14 shots and built a 28-point. lmul in tlm third quart1!r. 
Pn11ny llardaway. the Suns' ma_jor offseason acquisition, a<ldml 18 points. Phoenix center Luc Longley went scoreless in 
LP.ams. Elton Brand scored 11 points for the Bulls, whu fell to 0-4. 
The Suns WP.re ahflad 87-65 entering the final quarter. When Chicago's reserves opened the fomth with 10 straight points to gd within 12, the Suns reinserl· ed Hardaway, Kidd and Gugliotta and reestablished con­trol. 
Kidd toyed with the Bulls in a l8-7 run closing the first half as Phoenix took a 64-47 lead. He grabbed an offensive rebound and made a beautiful no-look a layup. converted a three-point play after taking a backdoor pass and then hit two free throws. 

The Bulls couldn't contain Gugliotta, who scored 16 Iirst­h alf points and consistently sailed down the baseline past Chicago's defenders. The Suns shot 6'1 percent and also blocked eight shots. 
The !Md Axpanded to 28 in the third quarter as rookie Shawn Marion scored nine points and had two emphatic dunks, one on a behind-the­

games. Lus Angeles was in front 58­
HOMES FOR RENT 
54 when Derek Fisher triggered t.he decisive run with a threfl­point play. 
Hice made a 3-pointer and 
-Domus Properties has two, five, 
later hit a jumper to complete the run, pushing the Los Angeles 
six, and nine bedroom student 
lead to 72-54 with 6:06 left in the third quarter.
housing available 

O'Neal added two ba'lkets dur­ing the third-quarter spurt,
-Student neighborhoods close to 
which gave the Lakers an 88-71 
lead going into the fourth. Michael Finley and Erick
campus 
-Security systems provided 

Strickland scored 19 points each, Cedric Ceballos added 18
-Well maintained homes 

and Steve Nash 17 for the Mavericks, who have lost three
-Maintenance staff on call 

of their first five games. 
The Lakers took a 54-49 half­time lead, but the Mavericks' strategy of fouling O'Neal when­ever he touched the ball in the closing stages of the first half
Available ~or the 2000/200 I school year 
was successful, O'Neal missed nine of 10 first-half free throws, 
including six straight over the final 1:33. O'Neal made only IO of 23 
BETTER HURRY!!! ONLY S HOUSES LEFT 
Contact Kramer (219)274-1501 or (219)234-2436 or {219)674-2572 
free throws in Sunday's 105-97 victory over the Mavericks at the 
.. Staples Center, with Dallas foul­ing him every time he touched the ball in the fourth quarter.
Meet The Sociology Major 
Jazz 92, Blazers 87
Wednesday, November 11, 1999 
That's more like it, Karl. In his first game against Portland since a horrible effort
7th floor Flanner Hall 4:00 -5:30 PM 
in a playoff loss that ended Utah's season last spring, Karl Malone scored 24 points and had eight rebounds as the Jazz 
beat the Trail Blazers. Malone shot 6-of-11 from the
Every few years, professional academics evaluate university programs. 
Recently, representatives of Harvard, Michigan, and Boston University 
field and made 12 of 14 free throws as Utah handed Portland
rated Notre Dame's Undergraduate Sociology Program as "truly out­
its first loss in five games this season. Malone was 3-of-16 in
standing". We invite students aiming to be "outstanding" to join us as 
the decisive sixth game of a sec-
first or second majors. · "'r 
Bryon Russell scored 19 points off the bench and helped the Jazz clamp down defensively in thfl fourth quarter after Portland's Damon Stoudamire had scored U of his 19 points in the third to put the Blazors ahead 69-68. 
Utah pulled away from 11 72­72 tie with a 9-0 run over a 4:55 span early in the fourth quarter. Howard Eisley sparked the burst with two baskets and it was 77 ­72 with 8:25 to play after Hornacek made three f'rM throws. 
Bonzi Wells was called for a reach on Hornacek, then received a technical for arguing. It was a sequflnCfl typical of' an emotional game between teams expect!~d to contend again in thn Western Conference. 
Steve Smith led the Blazers with 26 points while Arvydas Sabonis had 11 points and nine rebounds. Scottie Pippen scored nine points after being held to four in the first half. 
Jeff Hornacek scored 14 points and .John Stockton had 14 points and nine assists for the 
Jazz. 
Utah coach Jerry Sloan was ejected in the second quarter after being called for two tnchni­cals in less '35 seconds. 
Referee Joe Forte called Uw first against Sloan with 1:07 before halftime after Pippen blocked a shot by Bussell, who fell in front of the Jazz bench. Sloan raced onto the floor and went straight for Forte. 
The second came after Malone was fouled with 28.1 seconds on the clock. Sloan yelled at rnforee Mark Wunderlich, who immedi­ately blew his whistle and told Sloan to leave the arena. 
The crowd of 19,538 boond as the officials left the floor at the break. and Wunderlich respond­ed by raising his arms and pumping his hands as he disap­peared into the tunnel. 
Heat 113, Pacers 101 
Alonzo Mourning scored 33 points and the Miami I !eat again displayed newfound firepower, beating the Indiana Pacers. 
The Heat. adapting to NBA rule changes designed to increase scoring, topped l 00 points for the third time in f'our games. They reached the 100 mark only four times last season despite winning the Atlantic Division, and never scored more than 102. 
and had 12 rnbounds. 
Lakers 123, Mavericks 101 
Shaquille O'Neal had 27 points and 10 rebounds as the Los Angeles Lakers beat the Dallas Mavericks for the 18th consecu­tive time. 
O'Neal made only 3 of 14 free throws, but was 12-of-16 from the field. 
Glen Rice added 21 points and Rick Fox had 18 off the bench for the Lakers, who haven't lost to the Mavericks since April 5, 1995. 
The Lakers broke the game open with a 14-0 run midway through the third quarter to win for the fourth time in their five 
Some of our most prestigious faculty are offering a variety of interest­
.lDM Communications 
ing and substantive courses at the undergraduate level. Check our web 
.NEXT;; ;;=;-==-" 
~ !=:~
site or come into the office. Peruse our courses on Gender, Crime, 
AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE
Family, Schools, Organizations, Ethnicity, Race, Public Policy, 
• 100% National Digital Wireless Network 
Religion, Migration, Culture, International Affairs, Medicine, Latin 
• Direct Connect *
America, and Technology. 
• No Roaming 
...,,_,..• Ask About Our No Long Distance* 
Several courses are cross-listed with Anthropology, The Hesburgh 
• No Contracts 
Program, Gender Studies, Computer Applications, American Studies, 
Call Today and Ask About Our: 250 Anytime Cellular Minutes w/ l000 Free Weekend Minutes*
African-American Studies, Economics, Government, The Peace Institute, Romance Languages and Literature. 
For $4000 per month 219-237-1082 802 East LaSalle Ave.• South Bend, IN 46617 
(Just South of St. Joseph's Medical Center)
Please visit our _website: http://www.nd.edu/~soc/ 
I0% Offof Equipment and/or Accessories w/This Ad 
(Valid thru 11-30-99) 
www.jdmcommunications.com
Sociology Department: 810 Flanner Hall 631-0803 or 631-6463 
"Bringing You Tomorrow's Wireless Technology Today" 
.. 
-
-

NHL 
Devils defeat Flyers on Arnott's game-winner 
at 6:01. He finished off a two­career point -a goal -in nine 2), who remained tied with length, even as Drulia lay on 
Associated Press 
on-onr, break with Mikael contests. He scored on the Ottawa for the EastHn the ice receiving medical atten­Renberg to extend his goal­Stars' second shot on a back­Conference lead. tion.
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. 

scoring streak to five games. lt hander between McLennan's Mcinnis opened the scoring at But the Lightning, who had at
Jason Arnott scored the 

was L<~Clair's 10th goal as he legs at 1 :37, and knocked in a 7:48 of the second period, boat­least one power-play goal ingame-winner late in the second became the first Flyer to reach rebound shot on the power play ing Joseph with a snap shot each of their previous five
period and Martin Brodeur 
double digits. to make it 3-0 at 1 :41 of the from the slot off a pass from games, managed only two shotsmade 15 saves Tuesday to lead Vanbiesbrouck finished with second period. Ted Donato. during the advantage and didn'tthe New Jersey Devils to 2-1 29 saves and fell to 7-6-2. Darryl Sydor, Chris Murray Anaheim had an opportunity even get the full four minutes
victory over the streaking 
The Devils played outstanding and Brett Hull also scored and to score on a power-play later because Chris Gratton hookedPhiladelphia Flyers. . 
defense in the third period, lim -Joe Nieuwendyk had two assists in the period, but frcdrik Peter Bondra from behind on aThe Devils broke a 1-1 tie iting the Flyers to only four for the Stars. Hull, who scored Olausson's shot from the point shorthanded breakaway.
with the Arnott's goal at 15:32. 
shots. in the third period, has five hit the right goalpost. Seconds Then, when Bulis was calle.d
Shooting from the right circle, goals in seven games and a later, Mcinnis hit the left post. for boarding with 8:21, GrattonArnott drilled the puck between team-leading seven overall. Kariya's scored an empty-net again spoiled the power play by 
John Vanbiesbrouck's pads for Stars 5, Blues 2 
This was the first meeting goal with 13 seconds left, his drawing a four-minute stickinghis first goal since Oct. 7. Rookie Jon Sim scored his 
between the teams since the seventh goal of the season. penalty 39 seconds later. The
Randy McKay also scored the first two goals as the Dallas Stars eliminated the Blues in six Caps then drnw another penal­

for the Devils, who extended Stars chased the NHL's top 
games in the Western ty, giving Tampa Bay a four-on­
their home unbeaten streak to goalie and ended the St. Louis Capitals 2, Lightning 1 
Conference semifinals last three advantage that also failed 
seven games (6-0-1 ). Blues' five-game home winning Jan Bulis scored on a two-on­
spring. to produce a goal. · 
John LeClair got the goal for streak one break with 12:41 to play for 
Dallas goalie Ed Belfour had Olaf Kolzig made 28 saves for
the Flyers, whose five-game Jamie McLennan, the backup the winning goal. and the 
an easier time in the nets the Capitals. Dan Cloutier had
unbeaten streak (4-0-1) ended. to Roman Turek, entered the Washington Capitals kept their
despite facing so many shots. 36 for the Lightning.
The loss was only the second in game 4-0 with a league-leading penalty-killing streak alive with
Jochen Hecht scored his third In thr, first period, Bondra
the last 11 games for 1.58 goals-against average. seven more in a victory over the
goal on a backhander in the scored his 30th goal in his 30th
Philadelphia, which began the McLennan gave up the game's Tampa Bay Lightning. 
second period and Derek King career game against Tampa
season with its worst start in first four goals on 12 shots and Bulis scored his seventh goal
got his first on a slap shot early Bay Rookie Glen Metropolit slid 
franchise history at 0-5-1. his goals-against had risen to of the season with an assist
in the third for the Blues. the puck to Bondra, who scored
McKay scored the only goal of 2.26 when Turek replaced him from Steve Konowalchuk. 
easily from the right of the
the first period in which the at 7:12 of the second period. The Capitals have won three crease at the 5:37 mark for hisDevils dominated, outshooting The Stanley Cup champions, M'ty Ducks 2, Maple Leafs 0 of four, including three in a row 10th goal of the season.
the Flyers 18-3. McKay was hindered by injuries in the early Guy Hebert made 19 saves for at home. Over the last seven Cloutier then kept it a one­playing his first game after season, moved above .500 at 8-his second shutout of the season games, they have successfully goal game almost by himself,serving a three-game suspen­7 -l despite being outshot 37-16 as the Anaheim Mighty Ducks killed 32 consecutive penalties, 
stopping Zednik twice from
sion for slashing Flyers defcnse­and getting off only two shots in beat the Toronto Maple Leafs. a strong recovery from a team close range in one of many furi­man Ulf Samuelsson in last the third period. The Blues are Anaheim won for the first was ranked last in the league in ous Capitals rallies. 
meeting between these clubs on 7-0 against Canadian teams. time in Toronto since Dec. 15, that category during the early 
Fredrik Modin started the
Turek, who hadn't played in 1993, and also ended a five­days of the season.
Oct. 30. 
play that tied the game for theMcKay took the initial shot six days since allowing three game overall winless streak That streak was in doubt Lightning at 3:44 of lhe secondfrom the top of the right faceolT goals on 12 shots in 35 minutes against the Maple Leafs. against Tampa Bay when 
period. Modin intercepted a
circle and followed his own shot at Colorado, made only four Marty Mcinnis and Paul Dmitri Mironov was given a clearing pass from Mironov inand converted the rebound at saves the rest of the way. Kariya scored for the Mighty four-minute double minor for 
the Capitals' zone, cireled
Sim, called up Nov. 4 from Ducks, off to their best start in high sticking Stan Drulia in the
11:04. 
behind the net and crossed toThe Flyers showed more life Michigan of the AHL. entered franchise history at 8-6-2. face with three seconds to play Robert Petrovicky, who scoredin the second period and the game with no points in two Curtis Joseph stopped 22 in the second period. The from just inside the left circle. 
evened score on LeClair's goal games this season and one shots for the Maple Leafs (10-5-Capitals protested the call at 

---w 

Wednesday November. l 0, 1999 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 23 

Going up. 
As you begin your ascent to the top. remember, it's what you learn along the way that counts. At Ernst & Young. you can have endless learning opportunities working with leading companies in 
FORTUNE
leading industries. So when you get to your destination, you'll belong there. Ride with us. www.ey.com 
100~~\ ,. 
~IEI 
T8 WIUFII 
..... 

CONSULTING• TAX• ASSURANCE 
§.!J f RNST&YOUNG 
FROM THOUGHT TO FINISH."~ 
C 1999 ERNST & You NG llP 


Davie 
continued from page 32 
were in that locker room togeth­er and I remember thinking this is a big deal. This is a major deal. Here I am a graduate assistant, just graduated from Youngstown State, I am a GA at Pitt and we are playing Notre Dame." 
The Irish, en route to the national championship, cruised to a 19-9 opening season victory over the Panthers. 
Now 22 years later, Davie returns as head coach at Notre Dame in the last game ever played at Pitt Stadium on Saturday. 
"To go in there and now be the head coach here and go in there and play the last game in that stadium is significant to me," Davie said. "There will be a lot of emotion in this football gamP 
Establisheel in 1925, Pitt Stadium is one of the oldest sta­diums in college football. NPxt season, the Panthers will play their home games at Three Rivers Stadium before moving into a new stadium in downtown Pittsburgh in 2001. 
One game in particular that Davie remembers from his coaching days at Pitt orcurred in 1982 when a 4-1-1 Irish team upset undefeated and top­ranked Pitt 31-16. Led by senior quarterback Dan Marino, the Panthers were 10-point favorites against a Notre Dame team that seven days earlier tied winless Oregon. 
But freshman running back Allen Pinkett's 76-yard touch­down run highlighted one of the biggest upsets in the Gerry Faust era. 
"I can remember that play today," Davie said of Pinkett's run. "It looked like it was in slow motion. We must have missed eight tackles on that play. And he goes in and scores and they beat us." 
"I think the whole time I was at Pitt we lost four games at home," Davie continued, "But two of those games were to Notre Dame 
Besides football-related mem­ories, Davie still remembers another tradition at Pitt Stadium. 
"I ran a lot of laps around the top of that stadium," Davie said. "There you jogged in the stadi­um because you weren't going to go out in Oakland [the area surrounding the stadium] and jog around that city. So we'd go around the top of that stadium." 

At halftime of Saturday's game, Pittsburgh will honor more than 300 former football players, 150 cheerleaders and 275 band alumni. The show, entitled "A Tribute to Pitt Football," will also commemo­rate the individual decades of Pitt Stadium, from the 1920s to the present. 
Among the former Pitt players that are expected to attend Saturday's game is 1976 Ileisman trophy winner Tony Dorsett. One of the best running backs in NCAA history, Dorsett's presence on the sidelines still scares Davie. 
"Fortunately, I am not aware of any NCAA regulation that allows them to play," Davie said. "But you've got to be nervous of Tony Dorsett lined up there at tailback. lie probably has at least one good game left in him." 
Though Dorsett will not be lin­ing up in the Pitt backfield, Davie still is concerned with the Panthers, particularly since the Irish haven't won i, game away from Notre Dame Stadium since 
NFL 

Eagles release DT Johnson 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA 
The Philadelphia Eagles released starting defensive tackle Bill Johnson on Tuesday, denying it was because of an altercation with an assistant coach. 
Johnson, in his second sea­

-
son with the Eagles and a favorite of former coach Ray Rhodes, was not at Veterans Stadium Tuesday night when coach Andy Reid announced his release. Reid declined to comment beyond a statement which thanked Johnson for his "time and effort." 
'Tm really not going to com­ment on it past the statement," Reid said. 

Two team sources, who spoke on the condition they not be identified, said radio reports that Johnson's dis­missal was linked to a dis­agreement with special teams coach John Harbaugh were false. The sources, who are close to Reid, said there was no altercation. 
last season. The last road victory for the Irish came on November 14 a year ago when they blanked Navy 30-0 at Jack Kcmt Cooke Stadium in Raljon, Md. 
In fact, that game was at a neutral site. where most of the crowd was rooting for Notre Dame. So actually the last time Notre Dame team won when the crowd was not in their favor occurred a week earlier when they beat Boston College 31-26. 
Throughout the 4-5 season, there has been a sense of mis­comm unicatio n on the Notre Dame team. from the infamous fake check against Purdue to last week's miscommunication in the fourth quarter, the Irish have faced criticism for their failure to communicate. 
With the crowd noise and 
environment of an away stadi­um, Davie believes his team can­not afford to continue its ways if they want to wfn on Saturday. 
"When you play on the road you have to be smart about just how much you do at the line of scrimmage," Davie said. "You've got to make sure the communi­cation and the checks and things are as simple as you can make it." 
Though his top priority this week is a victory, Davie couldn't help but reflect on how his career has come full circle. 
"You look back in your life at all the different paths you go down, all the things that could have happened," Davie said. "To go from a GA at Pitt then to coach the last game at that sta­dium is something else." 
1999-2000 Season Notre Dame Film, Television, and Theatre Presents 
Free is good. If it's something you can actually use. Which means that X:Drive's all good. 
X:Drive is the first Internet hard drive on the desktop. Difference is, you can access X:Drive anywhere, 

anytime. (A major breakthrough for schoolwork. And R&R.) Let's say you're doing a group grope. Think how much easier things'II go when everyone has access to the same files, projects and presentations. No matter where they are on campus. (Or the planet.) It's perfect for individual projects, too. Like term papers, essays, and resumes-even if you share a computer. 'Cause your X:Drive files are password-protected. More good news. X:Drive gives you 25MB of space free. (That's about the same as the 17 virus-infected floppies you won't have to schlep around anymore.) Which brings us to another nifty feature. X:Drive lets you grab MP3s, video, groovy pix from the Web in seconds while you keep surfing. So, go to www.xdrive.com and lock and load. X:Drive's a real bar­gain. In fact, it's the best freebie on the Web. 
Desktop 
f.;) ·JY My Computer it! id Floppy (A I !tl ~Hard Drive(C:J :.l. ¥J. CD-Rom(D I 
[£-·II Zip Drille (E) 
•0 •x:Drive 1x1 
(c) D Public 
· DMusic: MP3s DHistory Study Group 
,~) D Prillate 
DResume DPhotos 

if, ~ Nelwork Neighborhood Tl Recycle Bin 
-
www.xdrive.com 
'' ... t 

Wednesday November. 10, 1999 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 25 
.. Give away your coat ... and Share the Warmth! 

SHARE THE WARMTH AND SPIRIT OF NOTRE DAME! 
Project Warmth is in full swing! Last year, approximately 1500 coats were received and distributed to sites all across the country, including the Appalachia region, Indian reservations in the Dakotas, and outreach facilities around the South Bend area. Together, let us topple those numbers and make history!! 
EVERYONE can participate! 

.,,.. ~, ,rf tff'..fj'" . " ., tf• •. · ;,-111 "f·,( '·' I 1 
The following sites are now eager to accept your coat donations until December 3: 
Center for Social Concerns * Hammes Bookstore * LaFortune Information Desk* RecSports *Alumni Community Service Office * Campus Ministry/ Hesburgh Library *All Residence Halls * College of Business Administration * St. Michael's Laundry Distribution Center * Bond Hall * Fitzpatrick Engineering 
* Flanner Hall * Galvin Life Science Center* Grace Hall * Law School * Main 
Building* O'Shaughnessy * North/South Dining Hall* ND Federal Credit Union (all branch locations), Student Government Office in LaFortune 

.. 
-
..
Sponsored by: 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
St. Michael's G E A R HAMMES BOOKSTORE STUDENT GOVERNMENT Laundry · • · · · • • ' : 

' ..... 
Wednesday, November 10, 1999 
page 26 The Observer . SPORTS 
NFL 

Steelers creep toward playoffs 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH 

Don't look now, AFC playoff contenders, but here come the Pittsburgh Steelers. 
All but written off during a 2-3 start that fol­
"I like the 

lowed 
mindset on this
I a s t year's 0-team right now. 5 finish, 
There is some 
t h e 
confidence
Steelers (5-3) are there." 
creeping 
i n t o 
Bill Cowher
playoff C O n -Steelers coach 
ten ti on with a three-game winning streak. Up next 
is one-game winner Cleveland on Sunday. 
Here's the oddity: They're doing it despite not running the ball as well as most Steelers teams and passing it as poorly as any in recent memory, although quarterback Kordell Stewart played well Sunday in San Francisco. 
Certainly, the Steelers have 
the good fortune of playing in 
the AFC Central, alongside 
perennial weaklings Cincinnati 
(1-8) and Baltimore (3-5) and 
expansion Cleveland (1-8). 
Their five victories are against 
teams with a combined record 
of 10-33.. 
But coach Bill Cowher said Tuesday there is more to the winning streak than resiliency, fortitude, good luck and favor­able scheduling. He detects tho makings of a team that believes it can make a run for the playoffs, even if it no longer is running the ball like most Steelers teams do. 
"I think you have seen it since the Buffalo game (a 24­21 loss) in that we have pre­pared and responded to every­body we've played," Cowher said. "I like the mindset on this team right now. There is some confidence there." 
Hut not much margin for error. 
Mostly because of their slow start, ·the Steelers trail AFC Central leader Jacksonville (7­
1) by two games and Tennessee (6-2) by a game. They don't have to catch either to get into the playoffs, but they still have seven teams ahead of them in the race for six playoff spots. 
"We can't afford to overlook anybody because we have no margin for error," Cowher said. "None." 
With a game left against 
Jacksonville and two left 
against Tennessee, can they 
realistically hope to overtake 
both teams and win a sixth 
division title since 1992? 
"Time will tell," Cowher said. 
"But we don't need to get con­
cerned with that. We're only 
halfway done. I've always con­
sidered November to be a big 
month because you see a lot of 
positioning, teams start sepa­
rating themselves. But we're 
not to that point yet. 
"We can't be concerned with where we are, we've got to be 

concerned with where we're going." 
Levon Kirkland said it might be an advantage that the Steelers were widely dismissed during the stretch of eight loss­es in 10 games that began last season. 
"I know people aren't count­ing us in, and that's cool," Kirkland said. "We'll just keep doing what we're doing and working hard and. if we can do that, you never know what can happen." 
In any other season, a sched­ule that finds them at home for five of their final eight would be a big advantage. Only this season, the Steelers uncharac­teristically are 1-2 at home and 4-1 on the road. 
Asked if Sunday's game is a worry because his players might take Cleveland too light­ly after beating them 43-0 on opening night, Cowher said ­pausing for effect after every word -"No, they won't.'' 
Cowher is especially encour­aged that Stewart finally found a rhythm -and, more impor­tantly, his receivers -during the 27-6 victory Sunday in rainy San francisco. Stewart hit his first six passes while 
leading touchdown drives  on  
the first two possessions.  
Stewart has averaged  an  

unimpressive 133 yards pass­ing during the winning streak but doesn't have an intercep­tion and has two touchdown passes. The Steelers have -needed every yard, especially because Jerome Bettis has only one 100-yard game all season. 
BOXING 

Lewis: Scandal validates suspicion 
Associated Press 

lAS VEGAS 
Lennox Lewis thinks the IBF 
rankings scandal shows he 
was right to be suspicious 
about his draw against 
Evander Holyfield. To 
Holvfield, the scandal is sad. 
"i've gotten it on good 
account that before the first 
Holyfield-Lewis fight, Bob Lee 
said he had Holyfield as his 
champion," said WBC champi­
on Lewis, who has a rematch 
with Holyfield, the IBF-WBA 
champion, Saturday night. 
"He's the one who put Eugenia 
Williams into my fight. Now 
everything is coming out, and 
it just confirms to me our sus­
picions of skullduggery." 
Williams voted for Holyfield 
in the March 13 fight, which 
most observers thought Lewis 
clearly won. 

Lee, the IBF president, and 
three other men were indicted 
by a federal grand jury last 
Thursday at Newark, N.J., on 
32 counts of soliciting and 
accepting bribes to fix rank­
ings. 

Williams wasn't indicted. No 
charges have come out of a 
Manhattan grand jury investi­
gation into the controversial 
decision in the fight at 
.Madison Square Garden. 
"It's sad," Holyfield said 
Tuesday. "A lot of people 
didn't get the proper opportu­
nity to get their (title) chances. 
And the public in one way or another got robbed of seeing some good matches." 
Williams, of Atlantic City, N.J., told the Newark grand jury that no one attempted to sway her decision. her lawyer has said. 
Judge Stanley Christodoulou of' South Africa favornd Lewis 116-113, Williams favored Holyfield 115-113 and Larry O'Connell of Britain scored it 115-115, making it a majority decision. 
Saturday night's fight in the Thomas & Mack Center will be worked bv referee Mitch Halpern ai1d judges Chuck Giampa, Bill Graham and Jerry Hoth, all of Nevada. 
"From the very beginning, we were going to have Nevada officials because of the contro­versy in the first fight," said Marc RatBer, executive direc­tor of the Nevada State Athletic Commission. 
All thrne judges have judged 
!BF, WBA and WBC titles light 
outside Nevada and have 
scored more than 220 champi­
onship fights. Halpern has 
been the referee for more than 
60 title fights. 

Ratner said it isn't unusual 
for all Nevada officials to work 
title fights here. lie also noted 
that in three WBA title fights 
on Saturday night's under­
card, two of the three judges 
for each bout will be_ from out­
side the United States. 

********************** 
t CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS t
* SEE WHAT WE HAVE TO OFFER: * 
t ~ 

1 AND 2 BEDROOM APARTMENTS located just a few! blocks away from campus. Our apartments feature new kitchens and clean, *
* 

* comfortable living areas. I $52?,~$650/month] * 
* $$EXTRAORDINARY sAVINGS We beat everybody * 
-
* when it comes to value and affordability! Having some trouble talking the ** parents into letting you move off campus?? Compare our prices. * 
* ~GREAT ACCOMMODATIONS while we can't guarantee ** that your school year will be spent in total relaxation, we do provide a *
* swimming pool, tennis and basketball courts for your enjoyment. Come and * 
* see our facilities. We also feature on-site management available to you daily.* 
*272-1441 eSTOP IN TODAY!!!* 
* * 
********************** 


Wednesday, November 10, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 27 

PGA 
Couples replaces Stewart 
Couples said his charitable contribu­Associaled Press 
tion for the Nov. 27-28 event at Landmark Golf Club will be made toINDIO, Calif. 
the Payne Stewart Memorial fund of Frnd Couples will replace the late tho First Orlando Foundation. 
Paynu Stewart in the Skins Ga.me, 
Couples will join Spanish teen star
1went organizers said Tuesday. 
Sergio Garcia, David Duval and Mark 
''I'm very honored to be chosen to 
O'Meara in the $1 million competition.
replace Payne Stewart," Couples said. 
Stewart died Oct. 25 in a

"lln was a vnry spPcial person to all of mishap. 
us, not just in the wnrld of golf." 
TEST ¥OUR WJTSlll 

Universl~y of notre Dame's Colle~e Bowl 
Competition lnformdlon Colleqe Bowl Is & question t.11d 1n1wer 91.1\e belwun 2 toms ol 4. Tlie quesllo1u cover 111 subjecb (s1111lar to lrirJ~/PursuJI}, 
Monday. november 22 .• 7:00plR Mohe ba.me koom, 2nd Floor Lafortbnt 
R.e91stratlon Deadflne, Monday. noveinber 15 fR.WI fktf!! fR.ff!I fllfEII 
Prizes, Winning Te&11, All eipen$e p&ld lrlp lo lhe Indian& Unlver$lly lo c011pelJ:*i 1.q&lnsl lhe wlnnlnq ln11~ from ol~e1 colleqes In Indian, and llllnols. <?, 
Winning Tu11 ak111... , Up1 ••• , nu,e.s plued on l per,nnenl 
Spa.ct Is l111ned, so sl91 up u soon t.s pos.siblel 

SUB's 
Sophomore literary festival presents-
plane 
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Louisiana Tech, Tenne~ee to 'tip off' season Sunday 
Associated Press 

KNOXVILLE, Tenn, 
In a rematch of the 1998 national champi­onship game, Tennessee and Louisiana Tech upen the women's basketball season Sunday in the Tip-Off Classic, 
The early game in the doubleheader features No. 20 North Carolina State and B.utgers, ranked fourth on the heels of a final eight finish last season. 
"l think it is an impressive group, I really do," Tennessee coach Pat Summitt said Tuesday. "You have four quality teams that are nationally ranked and respected and very competitive, 
"I know it is early. but it should be two great games, and a lot of individual talent." 
The second-ranked Lady Vols and No. 6 Lady Techsters have a long history. Louisiana Tech leads the series 16-15, but Tennessee has won the last 14 of 19 games, including a 93-75 victory in the 1998 NCAA title game. 
"We are playing the greatest team in the world on their home court. They are women's basketball," Louisiana Tech coach Leon Barmore said of his team's Sunday opponent. 
AP Poll 

ye . team ·.. . ~98-'99 record 
A1 ··.···•·. •' Co~necUcut (22) 29·5
"2' c'<>reitnessM (9) 31-3 
.. 3 Georgla(4) 27-7 
.z; ~~~:<;in :::: 
6 Louisiana Tech 30-3 
7 Iowa State 25-8 
ft•8 NOTRE DAME 26-5 
9 · Norlh Carolina 28-8 10 .Penn State 22·8 11 A11burn 20-9 
12 Illinois 19-12 ,Ji13 LSU 22·8 14 UC Santa Barbara 26·4 
t15 Ofll Dtiflllrtfon 28-4 ·<JG .Ore11011 25•6 .. 11.,. Vlrgilltil Tei;h 28·3 
18''" Kansas 23-10 
, '.19 '.:, lfosloii College 22-8 20•1i N; carollna 17-12 21, Duke 29·7 
;~;:t,,TeitasJech 30·4 
~;1;; furdue 34·1 •20f Nebtaska 21-12 
,, 'Z5 Aritona ' ;;w 1a-11 
r····=..,,,·:·,;vi•\l 

t, e~r(cam~reteiving pote$: Wisconsin 113, klUl'1e97,Marquette 85, Stanford 71, Texas 70, r' 
1/lrJinl' 61, Geerge Washington 58, Florida 47, SW 
MIDOUri'Sf; 33;Arkanras 32, St. Joseph's 28.
tW 
Summitt's team is coming off a 65-64 exhibition victory over the U.S. Women's National Team -a squad that beat both Stanford and UCLA by 50 points. 
The Lady Vols return All-America selections Tamika Catchings and Semeka Randall, 6-foot­5 sophomore center Michelle Snow and junior point guard Kristen "Ace'" Clement. 
They've also added some new talent. It was freshman Kara Lawson who scored the go­ahead jumper with 10 
Mom, Dad, Adam, Mimo & Mimo 
seconds left to give the Lady Vols the victory over the national team. "She is a ,big play per­son," Summitt said. 
Louisiana Tech brings a senior class of guards Tamicha Jackson, Betty Lennox and Christie Sides, and center Shaka Massey. But Jackson is the only Lady Techster on the roster with more than one year's experi­ence at Tech. 
The Tip-off Classic, sponsored by State Farm, benefits the Women's Basketball Hall of Fame in Knoxvillo. 
points 
1,095 
1,057 
1,015 
994 962 869 846 761 697 674 574 533 476 441 379 350 316 297 251 241 218 212 209 137 131 


NHL 
-; 
Red Wings deny abusing Petrocky 
Fox 
continued from page 32 
as well as we're capable of playing. Ifwe can do that. we can beat anyone. We have enough [talent], hut we have to play perfect," Davie said. 
I can't help but feel a little vindicated, remembering argu­ments I had had with friends at the beginning of the year con­cerning the talent level of this year's team as opposed to past years. 
When the Irish were 1-3, my pPers citPd last year's 9-3 record as evidence against my claim that t.his y1:mr's team is more talented than the previ­ous edition. 
"To win nine football games last year [was] probably a pret­ty big accomplishment," Davie said. 
Even though I've disagreed 
with him on a lot uf things this 
year, at least the coach and I 
agree on this one: When they 
play as well as they can, this 
team can line up against any­
one vou can throw at them. 
"Sure, Fox," you're thinking. 
'That's like saying I would've 
scored a goal if lhe goalie 
hadn't been there." 
It's one of the most famous 
hockey cliches. one that has 
become a rebuttal for everymrn 
who likes to propose the 
"could've, would've, shouJd've" 
arguments as to why he or she 
didn't win. 
This isn't the case here. Some 
places don't have enough talent Of course, we all -and first wearing gold helmets. 
to win. In order to knock off a and foremost, every guy on the And nobody's satisfied with Tennessee or a Florida State, team -want the Irish to play mediocrity, especially Davi<i.
they have to play out of their that top-notch level of football "5-4," he said of Notre minds and hope that half of the each week. Dame's record, "doesn't turnopposing team calls in sick Why this level isn't always me on a whole lot." 
before they even have a shot. 
reached is because or youth or We can all agree on that one.
Notre Dame can beat anyone coaching or a combination of The views expressed in thisjust by going out there and factors; I'll let you be the judge. column are those ofthe author playing its best, regardless of It certainly isn't due to a lack of and not necessaril!J those ofwhat the other team does. 
abilitv on the part of the guys The Observer. 

§~§EJRVJICCJE JPJRO]ECTS 
Information meeting: 
November 10 (Wed.) 
7:00 PM 

at the Center for Social Concerns 
Enjoy birthday cake as we celebrate the 20th Anniversary of the Andrews Scholarship Fund & the SSPs 
• 

find out how you can spend 8 weeks in a social service agency and earn a tuition scholarship and 3 credits 
• 

-expand your education 
-meet people struggling with social injustices 
-meet wonderful alumni/e hosts 

cr•11e ,o• 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 


Associated Press 
DETROIT 

Detroil Red Wings captain Steve Yzerman and forward Martin Lapointe cleniP.d abus­ing a cameraman during a game in Tampa 
"The truth is I Bav. [' u b -would never lished spit on 
reports 
somebody. I 

s a i d 
would punch 

Yzer­
m a n him first. " tried to grab a 
Martin Lapointe 

camera, 
a n d Detroit forward 
L a P ­
o i n t e threat­ened and spit at a cameraman during the game Sunday. 
"The truth is I would never 
spit on somebody. J would 
punch him first." Lapointe said 
Tuesday. 
Yzerman said the incident 
has been blown out of propor­
tion. 
"I touched his camera. I 
didn't push him at all. He basi­
cally just ignored us," Yzerman 
said. "We asked the guy to 
move. It happens pretty much 
every single game W{-) play and 
every cameraman just simply 
backs up a foot. He didn't want 
to do that." 
Cameraman Julian Petrocky 
said that during the third peri­
od he pointed his camera at 
Yzerman and Lapointe sitting 
dejectedly on the bench. 
Yzerman "reached around the front of the glass to try to grab the lens·," Petrocky said. "When I backed up, Yzerman backed off and Lapointe starl­ed in on me." 
He said Lapointe threatened to come after him, then started spitting at him over the glass. 
Red Wings forward Brendan Shanahan said he was near Lapointe, and that the forward didn't spit at the cameraman. 
"The guy had a camera. I'm sure if it was a true he would­not jusl be saying it, we'd be watching it on TV," Shanahan said. 
The Orlando•based Sunshine Network said Mondav that it would not file a complaint with the league. 
Another cameraman and a stage manager also com­plained about coach Scotty Bowman. They said that af'ter the second period, Bowman left the bench. walked down the tunnel toward the locker room, and encountered a cam­era crew that was setting up to interview associate coach Dave Lewis. 
Cameraman Richard Delanf"y said he was "jostled" and "bumped" by Bowman, but afterward backed off an earli­er assertion that the coach shoved him. Asked whether he was in Bowman's path, Delaney said: "I could have been." 
Bowman said the incident started because a cart was blocking the hallway to the team's locker room. 
"I wanted to get to the dress­ing room to watch the penalty again. The cameraman was blocking the way. I didn't punch him. I did push him to the left, enough to make my way to the coach's office," Bowman told Booth l\ewspapers. 

NFL 
Cowboys' Lett returns to team 
got to be able to go out there

Associated Press 
and help us a certain number of plays.
IRVING, Texas "But a guy that talented willWhile the Dallas Cowboys are obviously be able to help us

facing the absence of several 
somewhere down the road.

top offensive players this week, Hopefully it's this week, but
the defense got some good 
we'll have to wait and see."

news Tuesday with the return Lett has missed 28 of the lastof lineman Leon Lett. 
60 games because of three sus­Lett's eight-game suspension 
pensions since 1995.

for violating the NFL's sub­Commissioner Paul Taglibue
stance abuse policy ended has said another violation
Monday night following Dallas' would cost him a year.
27-17 loss to Minnesota. In 
The 6-foot•6. 295-pound line­that game, the Cowboys had man is known as The Big Cat

Troy Aikman and Emmitt 
for his quickness. Ho has beenSmith go down with injuries. 

an excellent run stopper and aThe two-time Pro Bowl line­

good enough pass rusher to

rn an returned to the team's 
help free the ends.

Valley Hanch training facility "He can make a big impact," Tuesday and met with coaches. 
Gailey said. "How quickly andHe'll practice Weunesday and how much. 1 don't know. Butcould play 20-25 snaps Sunday when he steps on the field, Iagainst Green Bay as a backup think he will have an impact."

to starting tackles Alonzo 
The Cowboys waived reserveSpPllman and Chad Hennings. 

Nathan Davis to make room for"Any time you can get a play­Lott on the active roster. Davis,er like that hack it helps your 

best known for his multiplefootball team," coach Chan 

body piercings rmd tattoos, wasGailey said. "Now he's got to inactive for four of the last sixget into playing shape and lw's 

~ecycle The ~~server j 
po 

Wednesday, November I 0, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 29 
Football 
continued from page 32 
who 1\x1rnc:ls to rnplac:1\ lloward with Jo1rns and c;ivnns. ''/\lso lw was our gu111wr on tlrn punt team anrl lw was on tlw kickoff cov1)rag1\ tnam. !lo is a player that has spll1id. J\11(I. hoy, wn _just can't afford to Litke guys off Ow !fold Lhal havn lhat kind ofspfwd. That hurts us." 
Sanson. ratlrnr than 
freshman Nirk Sctta. will 
acisumn tlw kicking dulins 
with Millnr out. 
"I just don't lhink lik,~ 
right now with Nick ScUa, 
it is not thn right lime lo 
do that," Davin said. 
"!(' David Mill1ir can't 
go. which I don't think 
David will go, Jim Sanson 
will lin the kickrn·. You got 
to he proud of' Jim 
Sanson. !In has donfl a 
good job 011 kickoffs and 
hn has hung in tlwni and 
shown a l,1t of' charai:Ler." 
llw rlofnns,i took its 
higgust hit in tlw Sfic­
ondary. .Junior safoty llon 
lsraPI (hand l and frnsh­
man cornnrback Albert 
l'ornn (k1w1\) will both 
undergo surgery this 
wnnk. Safety Justin Smith 
is also banged up and 
won't play. 
Tlrnse injuritis have 
morn significance wlrnn 
tlw suspnnsions of Brock 
Williams and Lee 
l.af'ayPttP am factored in. 
D1d'cnsivc end .Jason 
Ching is dmw for tlrn sca­
.;011 al'Lnr undergoing 
arthroscopic knne surgery 
last week and ddensivn 
C!lHI Grant Irons is listed as questionable for 
Saturnday's ganw. 
"I would say ((;rant! is 50-50: maybe loss than 
:i0-50." Davin said. 
"Today is a big day just to see if ho -right 
now lw can't run. lln was kicked in his calf, in 
his shin. kind of an Achilles, you know. that 

NFL 
McNabb slated to start Sunday 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA 

Philadelphia Eagles rookie Donovan McNabb will make his first career start Sunday against Washington. 
Coach Andy Roid. under pressure since the second week of the season to start the player taken with the No. 2 pick in the NFL draft. took the unusual step of calling a nows conference on the team's day off Tuesday night to announce, "It's time to see him live." 
Live, tape delay. backward or forward, Eagles rans are sure to be happy with the deci­sion. 
"It's right on schedule," Heid said. "Donovan picked this [offense] up faster than any­body I've been around as a rookie." 
McNabb, who wasn't at Veterans Stadium for the announcement. will start for Philadelphia (2-6) for the rest of the season, barring injury. 
"If an injury occurs, then I'll make a change," lleid said. "He will be the starting quar­terback and he will remain the starting quarterback." 
McNabb becomes the last of the top rookie quarterbacks from this summer's draft to start. No. 1 pick Tim Couch has been starting for Cleveland, No. 3 pick Akili Smith for Cincinnati and No. 
whole area is inflamed right now." 
12 pick Cade McNown for Despite all the injuries, Davie is confident that 
Chicago -although he played he can run the table with the players he has left. 
poorly and hurt his knee. Reid "The challenge, like always, is finding a way 
insisted for the first eight to win." Davie said. "Everybody has problems. 
weeks of the season that Doug And I think the thing is we have enough talent 
Pederson should start until to win. We have got enough talent to win these 
McNabb was ready. three games." Heid said he's as ready as he'll ever be. "I understand that there will be growing pains," Reid said. 

It has been a rocky ride for McNabb ever since draft day. A small minority of belligerent Eagles fans showed up at the draft in New York and booed when he was selected after months of lobbying for run­ning back Ricky Williams. 

After a contentious holdout during which his agent, Fl,itr.her Smith. accused the team of using racn as a fa1:tor in contract nngotiations, McNabb signed a seven-year contract worth as much as $54 million with incentives. But hn was soveral hours late for the announcement when his llight from Atlanta to Philadelphia was del.aynd three timns. 
'Tm excited that it's done," the exasperatnd Mr.Nabb said at a news conference after midnight that evening. 
But it wasn't. Technicalities in the contract prevented McNabb from practicing the next <lay, anotlrnr strange twist in the former Syracuse star's journey to the NFL. McNabb showed up at yet another news conf'crcnce car­rying a huge playbook. Little did he know how long it would be before he'd put those plays to use. 
Heid, who has faced strong criticism for his handling of McNabb, said he has known for a while that this week would be the timo for McNabb's debut as a starter. 
"I kept this to myself," said Reid, who was asked why he didn't take some heat. off him­self by announcing it sooner. 
"I don't worry about the heat," Heid said. "That's not why the Philadelphia Eagles are paying me. They're paying £ me to make decisions." 
McNabb has played sparing­ly as P11derson's backup, com­pleting 22 of 51 passes (43 percent) for 166 yards, no touchdowns and an intercep­tion. McNabb played the sec­ond half of Philadelphia's 33-7 loss at Carolina Sunday, going 8-for-20 with one interception for the 30th-ranked offense in tho NFL 
"He's obviously excited," Reid said. "You guys have bnen around Donovan, and he does not show it. He's a pretty cool cucumb1\l'." 
Tho Eagles also released defensive tackle Bill .Johnson. without explanation. Tho team denied a report that .Johnson had an argument with special teams coach John Ilarbaugh. 
''You will go to Stepan Center TODAY and/or TOMORROW af1 PM 
WHILE IN TOWN FOR THE 
ND/PITT GAME, 
VISIT 

Mullaney's Harp and Fiddle 
' 

You will pay just $2 at the door. 
The Best in Irish Entertainment and Food! 
•Open before and after the game 
•Located at the corner of Penn and You will thank 
profusely for all the fun." 
29th in the Strip District 
•Only aten minute ride from Pitt Stadium 
www.nd.edu/~sub 
ND Fans!!! 

,, 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

Big money yields playoff berths in 1999 
Boggs 
Associated Press 
set to
NEW YORK Baseball's postsrrnson was only for its high rollers. The eight playoff teams all 
retire
were among tho 10 top spenders, according to figures distributed Tuesday to major league general managers 

Associated Press meeting in Dana Point, Calif. 
DANA POINT, Calif. 
The New York Yankees and 

Wade Boggs, who three
Atlanta £3raves each had the 

months ago bncame thehighest payrolls "in their 23rd player in major
leagues. 

league history to reach
The World Series champion 

~.000 hits, apparently is
Yankees had a record payroll set. to retire.
of $91.99 million, about $18 

Boggs, a five-time AL
million more than the previous batting champion, playedhigh, set by Hallimore the pre­for the Tampa Bay Devil

vious year. Among playoff 

Rays the past two yearsteams, they were followed by 
after 11 seasons with the
Texas ($80.8 million), NL win­

Boston Red Sox and f'ivener Atlanta ($79.3 million), 
with the New YorkCleveland 1$73.5 million), 
Yankees.
Boston ($72.3 million), the 

Devil Rays manager
New York Mets ($ 71. 5 mil­Larry Rothschild, attend­lion I, Arizona ($70 million) ing the baseball's general

and Houston ($56.4 million). 

managers meetings, said
Proving that money doesn't 

Tuesday a news confer­
guarantee success, the lop five ence to darif'v that issueincluded baseball's most noto­will be hold 'l'hursday inrious underachievers of 1999: St. Petersburg.

Los Angeles was fourth at 

"I don't know where the
$76.6 million, followed by 

story came from, it was inBaltimore at $75.4 million. 
the St. Petersburg paper,"
"We think in the new year, 

Rothschild said. "At thiswe'll make some recommen­
time, it's too early to spec­dations," said Sandy Alderson, ulate."
the executive vice president of 

Boggs, a 41-year-oldbaseball operations in the 
third baseman, is eligible
commissioner's office. "The for free agency and The

commissioner is committed to 

St. Petersburg Times
making some serious changes 

reported Tuesday that
in the system. I think that's 

Boggs is likely to take anthe No. 1 item on his agenda." 
off-field position with theSince the end of the 1994-95 Devil Rays.
strike, just one team not 

On Aug. 7, he became
among the top half by payroll 'Td prefer we were all oper­final day of the regular sea­The average salary 
the first player to homer
has advanced to the postsea­ating on the same plane finan­son, losing a wild-card increased 13.2 percent, from for hit No. 3000, connect­son: the 1997 Astros, who cially," Dodgers general man­tiebreaker playoff to the Mets. $1,384,530 to $1,567,873. The ing against the Cleveland
were 18th among 28 clubs. ager Kevin Malone said. "I Florida continued its median -the point where an 
Indians at Tropicana rield
The eight postseason teams would like to see all 30 clubs astounding drop. The Marlins equal number of players are in St. Petersburg, rla.
were among the top 12 in on a level playing field. That were fifth at $53.5 million above and below -jumped 
Ile kissed home plate
1998, the top 14 in 1996 and would be good for the fans, it when they won the World 13.6 percent, from $427,500 after joyously circling thethe top 12 in 1995. would create more competi­Series in 1997, dropped to to $495,000. 
bases.

Since then, the 10 World tion. I think it would be great 27th at $15.1 million as they After paying $1.464 billion Boggs finished the sea­
Series teams all have been for baseball if there was a went 54-108 the following to 920 players this year, teams 
son with 3,010 hits and aamong the top 10 in payroll, floor and a ceiling." year and were dead last this already have guaranteed 
.328 career batting aver­
including six among the top Arizona, which won the NL year, as they went finished a $1.157 billion to 285 next sea­age.
three and eight among the top West, had the most dramatic league-worst 64-98. son -including $74.9 million Ile was one of two play­five. The Yankees' payroll was increase, going from 21st at Montreal, last in 1998 at by Atlanta and $74.0 million ers to reach the 3,000-hitmore than six times that of the $31.6 million to ninth. $8.3 million, nearly doubled by Arizona -and $745 mil­
milestone last season,
lowest team, the Florida San Diego, 10th at $53.1 its payroll to $15 million and lion to 131 in 2001. 
joining the San Diego
Marlins ($14.65 million). million when it won the NL moved up to just 29th. In all, teams have made Padres' Tony Gwynn, who"What am I going to say? pennant in 1998, dropped to "Cleveland, Ohio, in the late $2.596 billion in future com­did it a day earlier.
... For me, the only thing I'm 15th at $45.8 million. '80s was at the bottom," mitments -and these figures Boggs, who had season­concerned about is trying to "Obviously it's getting Indians general manager John were compiled before Green's 
ending knee surgery a
repeat in 2000." Yankees gen­greater every year." Padres Hart said. "Several factors contract Monday. 
month after getting hiseral manager Brian Cashman manager Bruce Bochy said. have changed that. We're still Payrolls include salaries, 
3,000th hit, hit .301 in 90
said. "It's more a case today where a middle market. We have performances and prorated 
games for the Tampa Bay
After signing outfielder clubs know they don't have a large revenue fueled by the shares of signing bonuses and 
Devil Hays last season.

Shawn Green to an $84 mil­chance to compete. You're new stadium and a good prod­other guaranteed income, but lion, six-year contract going to have a team occasion­uct. Part of the American way not award bonuses, which Monday, the Dodgers have two ally that can compete, c·an is to be creative. It'~ ~n issue." have not yet been tabulated. 

players (Green and pitcher contend, like the Reds this 

..... 
Kevin Brown), whose average year. Now it's to the point annual salaries total $29 mil­where you only have a chance 
lion -more than the entire if you spend the money." 
1999 payrolls of Florida, Cincinnati, with a $38 mil­
Montreal, Minnesota, Kansas lion payroll that ranked 20th, 
City, Pittsburgh, the Chicago was in contention until the 
White Sox and Oakland. 

" 
Monet 
The Fine Art of Hair Design For That Lasting Impression 
Debbie LaFree 340 Cleveland Rd. Granger, Indiana 46530 
Phone: 273-0441 
Women's Hair Cuts: $40 Men's Hair Cuts: $25 . Highlights: $80 
30% off thru 11/18 

ALLSTATE INSURANCE COMPANY 
Presentation and Information Session 
Wednesday, November 10, 1999 
6:30 -8:00 pm 
Alumni Room 
Morris Inn 
~ 

All students interested in learning more about the actuarial profession are welcome to attend. 
Interviews -Full Time 
Allstate. 
-. -J 

Thursday, November 11, 1999 
You're in good hands. 

Check with Career & Placement to schedule an www.allstatecareers.com interview time. 
,------------------------------------------------------------------~----------­
Wednesday. November 10, 1999 The Observer . TODAY page 31. 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
Fox TROT 
MoM, "l'olJ GAVE ME PAtGE"S LUNCH BAG ToOAY 8Y MtSTA~E ! 
\ 
IT WAS All I COULi> Do To TRACI< HER l)oWN AT SCHOOL AND SWITCH.' MY DAY WAS ALM'oST 
RUINED! 
PETER, YolJ Boll-I HAt> TVNA Ft'.iH SANDWICHES. 
WHAT'S THE BtG 
OEAL'? \ 
-' 

TOM KEELEY 
NoT ~E. O~P..E."S SPRINl<.t..ER S'IS't"Et-\ E'-f'\...~\NE.0 
.. 
"' 

BILL AMEND 
HERS WAS REMEMBER CuT HoW I SA10 01AG0HALLY. YovR LITTLE 
I 
RECTANGLE 

08SESS10N WASCuTE 
__._-..oH, Ai<>IJT 10 YEARS A&o?... 
I 
JEFF REAM

A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD 
G.001=> e;v5 N l N.6. EY6F.yoiJe, 1'M 1cAAY Mc-FADPEN ANb M'( Sl~ll:fl. 16 A. t,o~K.. 
WNDU begins to rethink Its novel sister-brother News Team Idea. 
beam.1@nd.edu 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Roy Scheider, Sinbad, MacKen­zie Phillips, Richard Burton, Donna Fargo 
Happy Birthday: Brace yourself; you are up for a fast paced, explosive year. You aren't likely to hesitate this year, and therefore will find yourself following some extraordinary path­ways that will lead you into some wonderful adventures. You are in the driver's seat this year, so don't waste time. Your numbers: 4, 15, 23, 26, 35, 
44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Get down to business. You will be able to get along well with colleagues. Your discipline will enable you to com­plete some of those unfinished projects. 00000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Social events will open up doors to new and exciting acquaintances. Don't turn down any opportunities to travel. You need some adventure in your life. Be receptive to unusual entertainment. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Con­flicts will arise if you haven't paid proper attention to your lover. Pass the time at the theater or any event that does not lend itself to discus­sions. Both of vou need time to cool down.O00 · 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): New love connections will be made through friends. The relationship will move quickly, so hold on tight and be prepared to accept the changes that this individual will bring into your life. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You'll 
have intuitive instincts when it 
comes to making in"'vestments. You 
must be careful that you don't abuse 
yourself through overindulgence 
while celebrating. Discipline will be 
EUGENIA LAST 

needed. 00000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don•t let your emotions run wild. Get the facts before you take action. You will do well in events that need stamina and drive. Go after your business goals and stay out of trouble. 00 
LIBRA {Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Limita­tions will be greater then you thought if you get involved with a client intimately or, even worse, your boss. You need to use discretion con­cerning whom you see. 0000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't be too quick to lend your cash to a friend. You can bet that the money will n,ot be re_turnesf or put to good use. You must look out for your own best interests. 000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Someone you work with will not be too pleased with your actions. You must not exaggerate. You could t>asi­ly hurt his or her feelings without meaning to. Put yourself in your col­league's shoes. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Find out additional information ii you wish to continue in the profes­sional direction that you chose. You can get people in high places to help you out, but you'd better know your stuff. 000 
AQUARIUS {Jan. 20-Fcb. 18): You must take some time out to rest. You've overloaded )'Our plate, and there just aren't enough hours in a dav. Focus on the mo~t important issues. 0000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don'I say no; you Oll'e it lo your parhu•r to hear him or her out. You'll ruin your week if you don't face the situation honestly and openly. You can have somt> fun if you can sort out your differences. 00 
Birthday Baby: You have your own way of doing things. You're eager to pitch in and help, but not so quick to follow someone else's lead. You are a thinker and like to do your own thing. If left to your own devices, you will do quite well. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, .. eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) ©-1W9 Universal Pr-e-ss Syndicatt? 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Unhappy Ian's reaction 5 Pack (down) 9 Bath 14 "I'm_ you now!" 15 The Kara Saa touches it 16 Suitable in every way 
17 Statement meant to end a conversation 
19 Part of a spine, usually 20 Closemouthed 
21 Balance provider, for short 
22 Portable rocket launcher 
24 Young troublemaker 
25 Desert 
61 Attend to a fly 
62 Mild rebuke of selfish behavior 65 Big occasion 66 Prefix with 
potent 67 One-on-one sport 68 Classroom needs 
69 Tractor-trailers 
70 Home for a "monster" 
DOWN 
1 Cocoa ingredient 2 Cruel 3 Crushes with the foot 4 Bowery bum 5 Heart up one's sleeve? 6 Garbage collector 7 Soccer star Hamm 
8 "Love Letters in the Sand" Puzzle by Patrick D. Berry singer 
31 Comedy teams,
9 bath 
usually(shallow tub) 
34 Fatty tissue 
10 Cousin of "ciao" 
36 Fourth-down
11 Expand, as a 
option
waistband 
38 School cafeteria
12 Conversation­
-servings, say
alist 
39 Wishes
13 Squalid 18 Mattress 40 Completely losing it
problem 23 Sportscaster 41 Hulled corn 
preparations 26 Reference shelf 44 Lengths of staple service 29 Mop: Var. 45 Flabbergasted 
Mel 


46 Local 53 Made a red­faced exit
47 Window dressing 55 Mornings, for short
49 Outfitting, as a posse 
58 Votes (for) 63 Foreign pen pal 
50 Fertile Crescent river 64 Boggy lowland 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95q; per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the bestof !iunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
27 Egyptian port 28 Colleen 30 Waiting, in a 
way 
32 Tackle 33 Has down 35 Slightly ahead 37 Exasperated 
remark 42 Down the hatch 43 High-hat 45 Plus 48 W. C. Fields 
headgear 51 Prisoners do it 52 Global 
Surveyor's destination 54 City on the 
Illinois River 56 Diarist Anais 57 Bewildered 59 Its symbol is a 
lion 60 Ox!ike beast 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

E L S E S E T L T E R 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
---------------------------------------------------------------~----------­
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q '
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 0 Enclosed is $85 for one academic year D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name 
Address 
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 


Buying,the playoffs 
Study reveals that big salaries lead to big records in major league baseball. 
page 30

PORTS 
O
THE page 32 BSERVER ·. Wednesday, November l 0, I 999 

FOOTBALL 
Davie addresses road trip, injuries 
. Irons, Miller among key injuries heading into Pitt 
By BRIAN KESSLER Sports Editor 
Notre IJame went to war with Tennessee in Knoxville last Saturday and it returned to South Bend with a lengthly list of wounded. 
The offense was hit the hardest, losing two players for the remainder of the season. Offensive tackle Jordan Black tore his right MCL in the sec­ond half, while tailback Terrance Howard suffered a hamstring injury. 
With Black sidelined against Tennessee, offensive coordi­nator Kevin Rogers said the Irish were forced "to play left handed." Notre Dame now has less than a week to make adjustments on the line and get back to playing right handed ag·ain. Junior Kurt
-• Vallers is expected to make his first career start in Black's place. "It's in a position where we are young," head coach Bob Davie said at Tuesday's press conference. "I mean, it is Kurt Vallers and Sean Mahan [who backup Bia.ck]. Both those players L think have some potential. I am kind of anxious to watch them play. But Jordan Black, that hurts us losing him." Howard's injury is the cause for concern at the tailback position. His injury along with the losses of Tony Driver (sus­pended) and Darcey Levy (transfered) reduces Notre Dame's once large corps of tailbacks to just two -Julius Jones and Tony Fisher. "It's a lot of reps in prac­tice," said Jones, who has been wearing a knee brace in practice due to an injury suf­fered against the Volunteers. -"It's just basically me af\d Tony Fisher. We just have to hang in there." David Givens will make the move from flanker to tailback to give the Irish more depth at that position. "He pretty much knows the plays," Jones said. "He goes in for us on some situations like goal line so he pretty much knows all the plays." The special teams units will also he shaken up with the losses of Howard and kicker David Miller, who suffered a hip f1exor. "You saw him [Howard] on kickoff returns," said Davie. 
see FOOTBALL/page 29 


By TIM CASEY Sports Writer 
More than 20 years ago, in 1976, before most of the cur­rent Irish players were born, Bob Davie was just another college graduate looking for a job. 
Despite graduating from Youngstown State with a degree in education, Davie knew he wanted to be a coach. 
So the determined Davie went to Pittsburgh in search for a position as a graduate assistant coach. Eager to get into a winning program, the· aggressive Davie was willing to do anything. Even work for free. 

"I graduated in December and went there [Pittsburgh] in 
-January," Davie recalled at Tuesday's press conference. "I said I wanted to be a graduate assistant [but was denied]. So I came back again and said I am just going to volunteer my time. 
"I started in January and I just volunteered my time," Davie said. "I went until about May and then finally he [head coach Jackie Sherrill] hired me as a graduate assistant in May. To get that graduate assis.tant job at Pitt coming out of Youngstown State was significant." 
Thus began Davie's coach­ing career. A few months later Davie 
was helping prepare for the Panthers first opponent of the season. That team was Notre Dame. 
Davie fondly remembers his first game as a coach. 
"For some reason, I ended up in the locker room right before that game," Davie said. "It was Jackie Sherrill who was coaching his first game as head coach and myself. That was when GA's (graduate assistants! didn't even dress in the same lockPr room as the other coaches. 
"But for some reason l probably was going to get him a Diet Coke or something: that is why I was probably in there," Davie said. "J-le and I 
see DAVIE/page 24 
Irish do not lack talent 

If you look hard enough, there is a clichc for just about every­thing in life. 
Whether you want to be healthy, wealthy and wise or just cat a worm, chances are, there is some bit of "clever" advice that has been told to people in your pusition since time began, with each adviser acting like it was a great revelation. 

Sports are no exception -in fact, they're probably the rulers of the cliche kingdom. You've heard them countless times before: "We played hard;" "This L'i the biggest game of the sea­son for us;" or "Don't take any­thing away from what (insert opponent naine hem) did." 
The funny thing is that -at least in sports -these cookie cutter comments are usually true. 

Take, for instance, what would probably be the go-to-guy in the football cliche lineup: "It's a game of inches." 
Sure. it's nothing you haven't heard before but it does go a long way in describing the cur­rent position of the Notre Dame football team. 
At his press conference on Tuesday, head coach Bob Davie addressed whern the team stands right now, a position where wins and losses seem to be separated by the "inches" between having a ton of talent and completely using that tal­ent. 
"We have enough talent to win each and every week. I believe in my heart that we had enough talent to win that [Tennessee] game," Davie said. 
However, Davie continued. "We're not talented enough to go out there and just not play well and win." 

A select group of teams, Davie noted, such as the Irish's oppo­nent last Saturday. the Tennessee Volunteers, have enough talent to make up for some lacklusior play and still come out with t.he win. 
At this point, this isn ·1 the case for an Irish team that fm1­tures many young players. 
"It comes down to us playing 


see FOX/page28 
vs. Marathon, vs. Alaska Fairbanks, Volleyball 
>-ff 
...

~ Thursday, 7:30 p.m. ~' friday, 7:05 p.m. ac Villanova,SPORTS 
~ Saint Mary's Swimming 

Saturday, I p.m. 
vs. Albion,
•
ATA 
Tuesday, 7:30 p.m. 

Swimming • Cross Country at Pittsburgh, 
vs. Pittsburgh, at NCAA District IV, Saturday, 2:30 p.m. 
~..

GLANCE ·•
Friday, 6 p.m. Saturday, l 0:30 a.m. 



