Chicken Soup for the College Soul 
Ban on gay ads draws criticism 
Scene reviews the latest installment in the popular series of 
Monday
Grad student responds to the University's policy on
self-help books. See what advice the experts har,e 
gay advertising, calling for a faculty stance
for your first year away from home. 
on the issue. 
AUGUST 30, 
page 11 
page 10 
1999 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXlll NO. 5 HTTP:/I OBSERVER.ND.EDU CONSTRUCTION 



New student center takes shape at old bookstore 

By MAUREEN SMITHE New, Writer 
A rrnw building on South Quad, in tlrn f'ornrnr lor.ation of the Hammes Notre Damn Bookstore, will housp, First Year of Studies, Student Academic Services, Campus Ministry and a satellite office of the Center for Sor.ial Conr.erns. 
Tho $14 million project. expflcted to be complete in early 2001, was designed by Stecker, LeBau, Arneill and McManus, the same firm that designed the Er.k Center. 
The building, to be named the Coleman­Mors(i Center, will maintain tlrn collegiate Gothic arr.hiter.ture, prnsent throughout most of' the campus, with architectural features similar to tho Eck Center. 
"We're very excited about it," said .James Lyphout, vice president of Business Operations. "We feel it will be a very beautiful building, especially considering its prominent location on campus." 
According to Lyphout, the inside of the building will be just as attractivp, as its outside. 
"The inside will be modern, functional space," accented with carpeting and wood finishing, he said. 
The building will include 24-hour stu­dent space with limited food services. 
"There will be convenience-type foods, 
SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY 

ND launches new Web site 
. Redesigned Web site to feature campus events, activities 
By LAURA ROMPF 
New, Writ,·r 
Tlwn,'s a 1ww sty!(i at 111ww.ncl.ed11. aud it rdlticts llw spirit of Notre llanw. arrnnling to Univnrsity Wnb administrator Tom Monaghan. 
"Most would acllllil that the old sitn IH'Pdnd improving," lw said. "Our goal was lo events all ov•w campus. 

"All major public events on campus can ho accessed through the calendar bocausc multiple groups all over cam­pus can input tlrnir separate activi­ties," he said. "We are hoping to 
make this the main resource for what's happening on campus." 
The 1ww Web page targets six main groups that are the most prominent sitn visitors. 
"We brok11 up the page into fivn areas: pHrspoctive students, current students, faculty and staff. alumni, parents and visi­tors." Im said. 
crPat1! a silt• that rnflci'.l• "We are hoping lo make "We emphasized t\d tlw institution." Web co11t1mt rel­
this the main resource for 
Tlw rompli!tl' rndPsign nv ant morP to took about 4 1/2 months. u1hal 's happening on these groups 
"Hight after Christmas, campus. rathnl" lhan the ('onstrul·lion twgan on or 9.~'.nization Uw 1ww siln, ancl a wnnk sLal I. 
Tom Monaghan
af'l.Pr graduation. the rrnw He nxplaincd pagt! was lurm:d on," lw University Web administrator this is the first 
said. 
Monaghan tixplainnd that this nwtlwd allowed administra­tors to pinpoint bugs in thn page before classes rnsumr.d in the fall. 
Tim pa~n has sevt!l',tl changes. 
"One main clement installed is a. University-wide search engine that indexes ovtir 125,000 Notre Dame Web documents,·• Monaghan said. 
/\nothor addition to the site is a lJniv11rsity cal,indar that highlights phase in improv­

ing Notre Dam1i's Wnb page, and that feedback from students shows the new sitll is fulfill­ing its purpose. 
"It's a nice t:hangi~." said sophomore Marc Nuno. "The 'popular sites' aspect is a wonderful addition that gives clear short-cuts to important information." 
sr.:e WEB SITE/page 4 

Vflnding machines, beveragns and prn­packaged sandwiches," Lyphout said. 
Kevin Hoonoy, assistant dean of' First Year of' Studins, eagPrly anticipatns tlrn movn from buildings cu1Tl'11t.ly behind tlw Main Building. 
"Wn'rc looking forward to it bncause it is in such an ideal location." hn said. 
Th(l new First Year ol' Studins offices will hold tutoring classrooms and a writ­ing center. 
"Now we will have both advising and the Learning Hcsourcns Centor on the same floor," Hoonoy said. 
John Dillon. dirnctor of Campus Ministry, also looks forward to tlrn movo. llis main offices are currnntly on the first floor of' Badin llall. 
"Hight now we am s1irnad out all ovm campus," he said. "It will he lwndicial to have all of our of'lices under onn roof'." 
Construction crews "will bn working normally five days a wonk, most lihly starting at seven in tlrn morning," Lyphout said. Winter will not offor a brnak from the work. 
Somo students haV(l to kenp an open, patient mind during the early -and often noisy -construction. 
"It's not that bad, except the-sevon o'dock wake-up isn't so great," said first-
see CENTER/page 4 


BREAKFAST OF CHAMPIONS 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Monday, August 30, 1999 
Murray State responds to Title IX ranking 
INSIDE COLUMN 





While you 

were sleeping 
Early Saturday morning, while all the good Domers were asleep, a menace was let loose upon the Notre Dame community. 
This menace did not come in the form of marauding Kansas fans defacing the Basilica, packs 'of undergraduates 
setting their lofts ablaze or even hordes of drivers try­ing to gain access to our pedestrian campus. No, this was something far more insidious. 
It was a flock of zealous Irish fans -Siegfried freshmen and a few of 

their upperclass leaders ­ Tim Logan  
running around campus  
chanting and yelling in  
support of their University,  
their dorm and their foot- News Editor  
ball team. These hooligans  
rose at 5:30 a.m. to cele­ 
brate the beginning of foot­ 

ball season. running from dorm to dorm to serenade the slumbering students within. 
Cheers of "Wake up P-Dub," "Siegfried Ramblers" and "We are ND" filled the air as the group moved through campus, leaving woken sleepers in their wake. Most of those roused by the pack grumbled and cursed before rolling over and falling back to sleep. One of the more vigilant among them, howev­er, called Campus Security to their rescue. 
And to the rescue Campus Security came. 
Reportedly citing a noise statute that pro­hibits such vocal demonstration before 7 a.m., Notre Dame Security/Police moved in on the crowd as it was outside Lyons Hall. As the stu­dents headed to Pangborn, officers, including a patrol car, cut them off and ordered them to disperse and rnturn home. 
The forces that make our fair campus so peaceful were successful once again. Another menace to our tranquil home was extin­guished, and the Ramblers. rambled back LO Siegfried quietly, their spirits quashed. 
Seriously though, while the vigilance of our Security personnel is reassuring, one must question the necessity of their actions. 
These students threatened nothing but the sleep of a few people. They were not drunk. They were not violent. They were not oven saying "sucks." 
They were simply demonstrating devotion for their University and enthusiasm for the afternoon's football game. The fact that they chose to do this by singing the fight sung out­side early in the morning of their first-ever Notre Dame football game should not be something to hide, but rather a source of pride. 
This sort of behavior is not uncommon on this campus. In fact, it makes Notre Dame unique. They don't get up that early at Florida State. 
Unfortunately, the sort of behavior demon­strated by those in authority Saturday morn­ing also is not uncommon on this campus. Whether it is by Campus Security, the Office of Residence Life. or the ushers at athletic events. safe. positive demonstrations of enthu­siasm too often are squelched on this campus. 
Spirited freshmen, enthusiastically demon­strating that spirit in a positive manner, are not a threat. They are just acting like the col­lege students they arc. As a university, we should be glad to have them, and if a few peo• pie lose a little sleep, so be it. This isn't a retirement community. 
The uiews expressed in the inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Finn Pressly Mike Vanegas Joshua Bourgeois Graphics Erin Piroutek 
Scott Hardy Sports 
Production Bill Harr 
Mark DeBoy Viewpoint Lab Tech Colleen Gaughen Jeff Hsu 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published '.'vlonday ,hrough Friday ncept during exam .and vaca1ion periods, The Ob:.erver is a mernber of ,he Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
MURRAY STATE UNIVERSITY 

Murray State Athletic Qirector E.W. Dennison said the athletic department's last-place showing in the gender proportion­ality segment of a recent Chronicle of Higher Education survey was not a true indicator of the state of the department. 
"We're not passing the buck in any way. but the form was confus­ing," Dennison said. "The lady at the Chronicle indi­cated it was very confusing. We counted 140 football players, including the ones that did nothing but sit at the fraternity house and drink beer. Hell, we didn't have 140 players we barely had lOO. You're supposr,d to count on the day of cumpetilion." 
The surv_ey, which covered the 1997-98 academic yeai:, placed 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

OUTSIDE THE DOME 

The AccuWeather"' forecast for noon, Monday, Aug. 30. 
ones for the day 
FRONTS: 
........... ......... 

Q 1999 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
----­


lilgl\  Low  Showers  Rain  T-storms  Flurries  Snow  Ice  Sunny  Pt. Cloudy  Cloudy  
Atlanta Baltimore Boston Chicago Houston  89 79 70 n 94  71 61 60 53 77  Las Vegas 97 Memphis 89 Milwaukee 73 New York 78 Philadelphia 80  74 67 51 62 52  Portland Sacramento St. Louis Tampa Wash. DC  67 86 82 93 79  52 54 64 75 65  

"We're not passing the buck in any way, but the form was very confusing. " 
E.W. Dennison Murray State Athletic Director 
Murray State last in women's ath­letic participation among 306 col­leges and universities. 
The main statistic showed that while Murray State's student popu­lation was more than 55 percent female, only 18 percent of the var­sity intercollegiate athletic partici­pants were women. This was the lowest figure among the 306 sur­veyed programs, which overall posted a five percent increase 
Arizona athlete denies theft 
UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA 

Arizona head football coach Dick Tomey last night lifted a gag order on freshman safety Clay Hardt, allowing the athlete to deny involvement in a reported theft case and add that he did not witness any miscon­duct among his teammates. But Tomey remained silent regarding which players listed as "investigative leads" were or were not involved in the reported theft of $20 from a CatCard office employee. However, Tomey last night confirmed to the Arizona Daily Wildcat that the list of athletes under investigation ­released Tuesday by university police -included some players who were not guilty of any wrongdoing. At a Tw~sday press conference, Tomey responded to the allegations by saying "I know what happened. It's a dumb thing -dumb." He added, "We have duly reamed those guys out, and they know how we feel about it." Hardt was the first student athlete named who has spoken out about the incident, which report­edly occurred last Thursday in tho Memorial Student Union. 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Monday  Tuesday  
. Campus Life Council:  . ND Activities night:  
Notre Dame Room,  Joyce Center, 7 p.m.  
Lafortune, 6 p.m.  . Scholarship info: Find  
. SMC Activities Night:  out deadlines and infor­ 
Angela Athletic Facility,  mation about the Rhodes,  
6p.m.  Mitchell and Marshall  
. Casablanca: Annenberg  Scholarships, 129  
Auditorium, Snitc. 7 p.rn.  DeBartolo, 7:30 p.m.  

LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
above the 1996-1997 numbers. 
According to Dennison's figures, 
Murray's women's intercollegiate 
athletics participation should be 
32 percent, which would place the 
University considerably higher in 
the standings. 
"I believe in women's athletics," 
Dennison said. 
"We're committed. We've just inherited a huge problem. We didn't ask the University for one penny, but we've fixed it. It's the law. but it's not just the law, it's the right thing to do." 
Kentucky programs placed low among the universities' female ath­letic participation. The University of Kentucky, which placed 201st out of 306 reporting NCAA member schools, was the highest among the major Kentucky state universities. 


Wisconsin sees big tuition hike 
UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN-MADISON 

UW-Madison students and their families accustomed to moderate tuition increases may do a double-take when they look at this semester's tuition bill. While students were away for summer break, the UW System Board of Regents passed a 9.6 percent tuition hike for residents and a 12. 7 percent hike for nonresi­dents, leaving students scrambling to find new ways to finance their education. Students are working more, applying for more grants and scholarships and taking out more loans. "I just have to borrow more money, I suppose," .senior Jonathan Jarosinski said. Jarosinski is not alone. Since 1990, student borrowing and debt have grown considerably, according to figures from the UW Office of Student Financial Services. During the 1997-1998 school year, 46.5 percent of students who graduated with a bachelor's degree left school in debt. Their average debt was $16,721. "It's very hard to pay off debts, and a lot of students are graduating with a lot of debt," said Steve Van Ess, director of Student Financial Services. 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather"forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Monday {)-71 50 Tuesday ~ 76 52 Wednesday~ 86 60 
Thursday  ~86 66  
Friday_,  ~85 69  
···v'  

Q,Q,~'888.~~ 
Showers T-slorms Rain Flurries Snow ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy C/oady Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
Wednesday 

. 
lnterrace: RSVP at l­6841 , Center for Social Concerns, 5:30 p.m. 

. 
Student Senate: Notre Dame Room, LaFortune, 6 p.m. 


Thursday 
. Cruel Intentions: Cushing Auditorium, 8 p.m., 10:30 p.m. 
. ND Rowing Club: 
Informational meeting; 107 Hesburgh Library, 8 p.m. 


-----------------~----------~----------------------------~--­
Monday, August 30, 1999 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Nugent to lead Human Resources 
ACTIVITIES NIGHT 
Tomorrow night you will have the opportunity to mingle with a couple thousand ofyour newest friends, visit with over thirty service agencies looking forvolunteers and over200 clubs and organizations looking for members to lead their organizations into the next millennium. 

DON'T MISS IT! 

FORMORE INFOABOUTACTIVITIF.SNIGHT, VISIT 
www.nd.edu/-sao/an99/ 
Activities Night iJ ,ponsored by Student Activities with the ,upportofRec:Spom, CSC, and CCC, 


TOMORROW NIGHT! 
7 PM -9 PM * JOYCE CENTER 






-------------------------------------· 
: Have you thought about 
!I becoming a 



i I Catechist? :I ¦mi 
I (3MPUS I MINISTRY 
I I I *Do you enjoy working with children or adolescents? 
: *Can you give two hours ofyour time each week? I * Would you welcome the challenge to articulate yourfaith? I * Would you like to be a valuable asset to a local parish? I *Woul.d you be interested in becoming a certified catechist? 
I I I I 
I I 1  If you can answer YES to any or all of these questions, come find our more about becoming a Catechist.  I I 1  
I  I  
I  I  
:  Pick-up applications at Badin Hall-Campus Ministry,  :  
1  and attend our information session on:  1  
I  I  
I  I  
:  Wednesday, September 1; 4:30-5:30 P.M.  :  
:  Montgomery Theatre  :  
:  1st. floor LaFortune Student Center  :  
I  I  
I  I  
:  Any questions? Call John or Sylvia Dillon at 631-5242  :  
I  I  


·------------------------------------· 
plPased and fortunate to havn an individual with his exper­tisn take on thn 11111.dership of our dllpartment of human n1sources." 
Befow roturning to his alma mater, Nugent directed labor ant.l employnn relations activi­ties for Mih>-s, Inc. (now Bav,w Corp.) for nine years, first· as manager and director of labor rnlations in what was thon thn company's headquarters in Elkhart, Ind., !'rnm 1986-92, 
and then as director of omployeo and labor relations at corporate headquarters in Pittsburgh from 1992-95. 
In thn latter position he was rnsponsibln l'or activities rnlat­
P.d to emµloyce labor relations !'or the 22,000-ern ployce Fortum~ l 00 company. 
!\l'ter (Hlrning a bachelor's degree from Notre Dame in American studies, Nugent atlnnded the Valparaiso l1niversitv School or I.aw, f'rnrn which h~ was graduated in 1980. 
Nugrrnt is lif'e ciirtified as a senior µrol'essional in human resources, and is admitted to tho bar in Indiana and Pennsvlvania. I le is a member of th·e Indiana State Bar Association. 
: 

iI 
i I 
I 
: 
I I I I I 
: 1 
I I 
I I I I 
NEWS ANALYSIS 

Interest rates may not affect students 
By ALISON HEINZ News Writer 
The Federal Reserve Board made lh11 second interest rate hike in less than two months last lues­day. 
The Fed said that the rnoasure was needed in order to avert inrtation. Although thn increasn is only a quarter of a percent­age point, the board said the risk of inflation should be considerably reduced. 
According to Edward Trubac, associate dean of Notre Damo's College of Business, the average col­lege student will see mini­mal changes. 
"The changes experienced by students might only be in relation to credit card inter­est rates," Trubac said. "In a few moro yoars, when it comes time for these stu­dents to buy houses, the increase will be more noticeable because mort­

85 succumb to heat during football game 
Observer Staff Report 
With heat index on tho foot­ball field roaching higher than I00 degrees, Notre Dame Sports Information reported that 85 spectators suffered from heat-related illness dur­ing Saturday's game against Kansas. 
While lhe shadow of the press box helped cool temper­atures on the west end of sta­dium, the rest of the spficta­tors baked in direct sunlight r,,r the majority of the game. 
Marching band members were among those who suf-

Now Try 

On Sunday! 
• 
Home Delivered On or OFF Campus* for only $4.00/Sunday 

• 
Also save 60% OFF the daily NYT, deli,crcd Monday through Saturday for only 40c/Day 


lise Your Credit Card hy Calling: 


1-800-535-5031 
Mention Media Code: SXXWR 
* Home lh·livcry may noi he avail,1hle tn all area-: 
gage rat11s will also b11 alfoctnd by this incrnase." 
Becausn interest rates l1uctuate so of'ten them is a likelihood that by tho tirnn students buy homes and possibly face mortgag11s, interest rates will havn already changed . .lust last year the board lownrnd internst ratns. said Trubac. 
"Last year tho ratns dropped bncause thorn was large financial problems in countries such as Hussia and Brazil," Trubac said. "To make it easier !'or these countries to borrow money, the rates droppnd. Now that the global oconomy is a bit moni stable, the rat.ns have gone back up " 
Tho Fed said their rncenl actions will adnquately rfoflect the risk of inflation, but that a third hike will not be necessary for the rest of 1999 If' last Ttwsday's raisn does not have the anticipat­ed effects on the economy, howevor, internst rates could rise again. 
f'enid the brunt or tho scorch­ing temperaturns. Soaring heat indexes and wool uni­forms contributml to Il mem­bers succumbing lo the heal, according to Kate !lowland of the First Aid Services Tmtm. 
"I came closer to passing out than I nver have," said junior bass drummer Jill Grisham. "Thern was no relinf'." 
She also attributed many of the incidents to the heavy wool uniforms worn by hand· membllrs. 
"Tlrny're great for cold weather, but terrible whnn it's hot," Grisham said. 

Sp«ial Ill The Ol»crvcr 
Bidmrl! 1:. Nug,·nt Jr .. dirnc­l O I' 0 {' I' Ill ]l Ifly I' I l r I' j /l l ill ll S , Plllploynwnt all{I trainin),{ and d1\vdup1111•nl al Nuln\ llanrn, was pronwtncl to assist.ant vic11 prPsidPnt l'nr human n•smu·c,•s al tlw Univl'rsity. 
t\ l1J 77 grad 11at11 of Notre Dame, NugPnt prnviously servnd as tlw U11iv1H·sity's assist.ant rlirector or human rnsoun:ns from I'J'J!i-98. lie replaces Hog11r Mullins, who rnsignncl elfot·.tivl\ July l. 
''Hich hrings with him exten­sive PxpcrictH'll in all aspects ol' human rnsoun:ns, as well as a km,11 knowlcd!{n ol' and 
<1pprnciittion f'nr tlw mission or Notre l>am11," said Father William Bnauchamp the Univ<'rsitv's nx(icutivo vice prnsidnnL· "Tim University is 
page 4 The Observer . NEWS Monday, August 30, 1999 
TAIWAN 
V.P. cautiously eyes new foreign policy 
Associated Press 
TAIPEI 
Taiwan's Nationalists Sunday nominated Vice President Lien Chan to succeed President Lee Teng-hui and moved delicately to back Lee's controversial new affirmation of Taiwanese sov­ereignty without stoking a war of words with Beijing. 
Debate at a weekend party convention was lively between Lee supporters and the party's more conservative pro-China wing. who call the president's July 9 call for ''state-to-state" relations with China an unnec­essary provocation of the mainland. 
Ultimately, the issue was 

several top leaders who have either been cold-shouldered by the Lien camp or thrown in their lot with Nationalist rene­gade James Soong's rival pres­idential campaign. 
The friction among party rivals largely overshadowed discussion of Lee's statement on China relations, which has infuriated the mainland and drawn concern from Washington over increased military tensions. 
Lee's declaration scrapped language used in the past that described the sides more ambiguously as equal "political entities," a move he said would help strengthen Taiwan's posi­tion ahead of talks with China touching on their political sta­tus. 
China saw it as a move toward formal independence and renewed its threat to use force to block such a develop­ment. China, from which Taiwan split politically amid civil war in 1949, considers the island's leaders the illegitimate government of a breakaway province. 
Overall though, party sup­port for Lee's statement was "very clear" and a paragraph backing it appeared in the party's political mission state­ment to be adopted at the dose of the congress. Nationalist Secretary General John Chang was quoted as saying Taiwan's mass market China Times. 
But a separate draft resolu­tion urging constitutional changes firming up Taiwan's sovereignty· was eliminated to avoid "speculation by the out­side world," C:hang was quoted saying by the reports. 
Government officials have said their basic policies toward China -including eventual reunification with the main­land -remain unchanged and have said they would not alter the island's laws or constitu­tion to reflect Lee's statement. 
TURKEY 


Citizens consider abandoning towns 
Associated Preq 

ADAPAZARI 
Once a bustling industri­al center, this quake-flat­tcn ed community more closelv resembles a war zone "than a cityscape: helicopters buzzing over­head, mountains of crum­bled concrete, dazed-look­ing citizens wandering the rubble-strewn streets. 
With three-quarters of Adapazari's buildings left uninhabitable by Turkey's devastating Aug. 17 earth­quake, and with tens of thousands of its people camped out in tents and shelters, authorities are considering a radical solu­tion: simply pulling up stakes and abandoning this northwnstern city of 180,000 people. 
Other ravaged Turkish towns -such as the Sea of Marmara port of Golcuk, where a naval base th,tt was the town's lifeblood was destroyed and won't he rebuilt ­may face the same fate: that of' being literally wiped off the map by this earthquake. 
In these towns. the destruction is so wide­spread that officials are slowly acknowledging that relocation may make more sense than reconstruction. 
~CUTIIIIEANDHAHGON DOORKNOB ___ -,---­
I : I 
I I 
, .. ----"---........ 
,, ..... 

,,' ..,, 
..' '..
I \ 'I I.
I I 
I

'I ' 
i ; 
'\ I' 
' \ I. 
. ' 
'\, ," Ir;........ _,,,' 
..... _..... ______.,. ... , 

Dear _____ the grouch, 
There's something you should know. In the morning, you are unbelievably grumpy. And that's putting it very, very nicely. 
So, because I like you, may I suggest you start the day with a CROISSAN'WICH" from BURGER KING: It's filled with mouthwatering sausage, egg and cheese. And that should make anyone less cranky. Even you. If it doesn't, then we're on to Plan B. And you don't want to know Plan B. 
Sincerely, ______ 


THE DELICIOUS CROISSAN'W/CH." 
The Huddle • LaFortune Student Center 


It just tastes better.­
--------------------------------------------------· 
www.burgerking.com LIMITED TIME ONLY. PRICE AND PARTICIPATION MAY VARY. DURING BREAKFAST HOURS ONLY 0!9'9 BUAGER KIN, CORPORATION.11.J\GER KING CORl'ORATDI IS TIE EXCUJSM LICENSEE Of TIE "IT JUST TAS!ES BrnER·11WlEIMAl<N¥J n£ REGISTERID BURGER KIN,, CIOSSANW01 !MJ tu IW.~ llliO~ 
Join The Observer staff. Call 1-5323. 


Center 

continued from page 1 
year Badin resident Katie Bears. 
The construction surprised her when she arrived last Thursday for orientation. 
"It was kind of depressing to see a big open hole in the ground as my view," she said. "But I have two other windows to look out from and they offer great views." 

Website 
continued from page 1 
"I like the new site better than last year," junior Andrea Gonzales said. "It is more visu­ally attractive and it is easier to get tu separate sites. Overall. it's more organized and has better options." 
--, 

pushed to the sidelines as the badly divided party sought to convey the appearance of unity behind the ticket of Lien and vice presidential running mate Vincent Siew. 
Lien, who has been seen as slow to capitalize on the posi­tive public response to Lee's gambit, echoed but did not specifically mention Lee's call for parity with China in his acceptance address. 
"If only China were to accord us respect and equal treat­ment, theni would be nothing we couldn't negotiate, no area in which we couldn't cooper­ate," Lien told more than 1,000 party delegates gathered at Taipei's International Conference Center. 
Taiwan wants "equality, not enmity; symmetry, not opposi­tion" in relations with China, Lien said. 
Lien was running unopposed and his nomination to seek the presidency in next March's polls was a foregone conclu­sion. 
But the gathering also dis­played deep divisions among the Nationalist's leadership over the succession to Lee. with the marked absence of 






orldNa 
I ¦ 
n 
Monday, August 30, I999 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD News 
Court allows teen's late-term abortion 
PIIOENIX 

Th1i Arizona Suprtnlw Courl on Sunday opn11Pd Urn way for a 14-ynar-old fost11r girl lo rPnlivl' a laLP-lnrm ahortiou. Tlw high <:oun vot<•d :l-2 to ovnrlurn a slate apJwnls ,iudgn's ruling Saturday that bhwkml thn girl l'rom hnad­ing LO Kansas lo abort lwr 24-wnnk-old fetus, said .lohn MacDonald. the supreme court's spokesman. No Arizona clinics currently provide nllelrtions aftllr 20 wnnks. Tim girl, a ward or tlw stal<i sinrP slw was !i and now a ward of Marirnpa County Superior Court, lold tlm stale sllf' was ra1Jf'd. Shn n·q1wslnd an abortion 14 w1it>ks into tlw prognancy bt1l Llwn ran away, showiug up again only rnwnt.ly. Appoals Court .ludg1• Mid1ad Byan's ruling canrn afl1\r Cov . .liuw !lull and stale Atlornny (;ennral .Jannt Napolitano argumJ tlw prngnancy may Lin too 11dv1111cPd Lo t1•rmi11atP. The Arizona Ilepublir said Sunday. 

Radioactive ooze escapes uranium plant 
WAS! IINGTON 

l;<idoral ollicials conlirnrnd that a rndioact.ivn hlai:k oow found seeping oulsidn Llw foncc of a K1,11l11cky uranium enrichnrnnt plant Ind work­nrs tn a burial ground for raclioactiv1) debris. Contract workers chancnd upon the material 1war an unusnd sanitary landfill at the Gaseous Diffusion Plant in Paducah. Ky., The Washington Post n\portPd Sunday. The workers found Llw oozn .July 15 while preparing to install wells to monitor anoth1ff possible contamination silt• rwar llw landfill. which closnd in 1996. Thn work«!rs dug bmwath a tar-like liquid found in a trark ldl by their drilling truck and tunmd up what appParnd to Im bits of tar paper and asphalt shinglHs. Not until thrnn wneks later, after furtlrnr excavation, did plant ollicials learn tlw matnrial was rontaminatnd. thn ,rnwspapnr said. Hadinactivity r!'adings wern hundreds of linws ahovn hwels found naturally in soil. 
Editor arrested after alleged libel 
AMMAN, .Jordan 

Authorilil\s havo rphiasml Uw chief editor ol' tlw al-Hilad weekly nPwspaper p<mding a trial f'or allegPdly ddiuning tlw prinw ministpr's son, tlw journalist said Sunday. Thn (\ditor, Abdul­Karim Barghouli. was dPtai1rnd Aug. 22 l'or quPslioning. tlwn rnlPased nn bail. Ile was alT<•stl'cl again a day lall!r and was supposed to rP1111tin in dtilPntion !'or two Wt\nks dming intnr­rogatiou. lssam Hawabdnh lilPd a wmplainl against Barglwuti, claiming tlrn journalist had ddanwd him in a mid-August article that allcgnd lw had harass1•d a group of fnmale nurs<)S almard a bus last month. Barghouti. 62, is Lim third journalist to bn d!llained sincn Prime Minister Ahdur-Ha'uf Hawabdnh took of!iet~ in March. 

Market Watch: 8/27 
Dow 
AMJ<:X:. 
71!2.52

}ONES Up;
-t.60 

Nasd1111:

11090.17 945 
C 
27.51'.90 -l~.72 
NYSR: 
Down:
625.71 
156.l
-6.63 S&P 500: 1348.27 


Com1iosile
-13.74 
Voh1me: 

108.28 718,S00,000 
V O I1.I..JE1llPED E R S 

co,en 
!IF.LL COMPUTF.P 
Ml{'Jl:oson CORI> 
lNTEt.. CORP t· t!iC'O 9'tSTt:M~ YAMROO. COM ua.· 
,OUT CQJU' Mn tr«lRLOCOM lN<' AHEIUC'A OMt..lNE HAN>,. ONE r.:ORP AMF.Fl HOtl! PROO 
TISPI . CIIPII tea DtSI 
DEt.l, -I.JI} '!177~ 47 ,06 Mtif"T· -1.H -1.ni.,o 
9]. ·" 
ltftV' •2. )9 •I 9J'1S ~), 00 c~co 6) •. 437"J 6ft, !t0 AAHB •J1,U ,-1j, 817!'. J:J. lit T ·4 _BR -;!.4]7, 47, 50 wee,, •0.H ·•0. lA7!, 1ft. '50 ~OL ·I. l l -1.ll7'> 99. 12 UNE -. JO •. 1,;o U,00 •8 ., RffOO 4'2. 12 






·"· " 
INDONESIA 


An East Timorese demonstrator performs a traditional rite with a sword and candle In front of a U.N. car Sunday during the arrest of local pro-independence leader Joao Da Silva. 
East Timor holds independence vote 
Associat~d Pres, 

DILi 
Af'Lcr four centuries of neglectful Portuguese colonial rule and 24 years of military repression under Indonesia, East Timorese voters overcame fears of violence and intimidation to cast ballots Monday on possible independence. 
The historic U.N.-supervised refer­endum began snon after dawn at 200 polling centers across the half­island territory. 
More than 451,000 voters, includ­ing 13,000 East Timorese living abroad, have registernd for the bal­lot. They are being asked if they want their impoverished homeland 
to  stay part of Indonesia  as  an  
autonomous  region  or  to  break  
away.  

'Tm happy I will be the first to vote. I brought my family with me," said Alfonso Lopes da Cruz, a 56­year-old unemployed man, before he cast his ballot. 
Barak pursues deal with Arafat 
A ... ociated Pre» 

JEllUSALEM 
One of Primti Minister Ehud Barak's senior envoys mot with l'alnstinian !Parler Yasser Arafat late Sunday in an urgent attempt to reach agreement on implementing tho Wye Hiver accord before Secretary of State Madeleine Albright arrives later this week. 
Barak warned Sunday night that if Israeli and Palestinian negotiators J'ail to close a deal "wilhin hours," he could carry out tho U.S.-bro­kercd accord unilaterally and as ho sees nt. 
lsraPl tnlevision, citing sourcfis in Barak's office said "within hours" meant by Monday evening. The 
lie waited in line with about 200 other voters al a poll station at a school near Dili's main sports stadi­um. Police, U.N. staff and indepen­dent observers kept watch. 
But so far there was no sign of trouble. Attacks on civilians and 
U.N. 
staff by anti-independence gangs plagued the lead-up for the referendum. 

U.N. 
Assistance Mission in East Timor chief Ian Martin said he was hopeful of a big turnout despite escalating violence. 


Dozens of people were killed in violence this year. An estimated 60,000 have fled their homes in fear. 
Many pro-independence activists were too scared to actively promote their cause after their offices were trashed. It was not immediately clear whether any polling centers did not open because of more vio­lence. · 
On Sunday, rival pro-and anti­independence militia leaders promised a peaceful polling day. 
They signed an agreement under 
report said Barak suspects the Palestinians am dragging out the negotiations until Albright's arrival Thursday to create a pretext for deeper U.S. involvemont. 
The statermmt issued by Ba.rak's oflice said the Palestinians wern not providing "satisfactory answers" on two issues: a timetable for an Israeli withdrawal from parts of the West ·Bank and the re Iease of Palestinians in Israeli prisons. 
A senior envoy for Barak made his case to J\rafat in the West Rank tuwn of Ramullah late Sunday, said Palestinian officials, speaking on condition of anonymity. 
Failure to reach an agreement would lead Barak to consider "implementing what he secs as the original Wye, although he does not 

which their supporters would stop carrying weapons in public and would eventually disarm. 
Both sides vowed to abide by the result, expected to announced by 
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan before or on Sept. 7. 
Ballot papers, printed in English, Portuguese, Indonesian and tlrn native Tetun language, ask voters two questions: "Do you accept the proposed special atltonomy for East Timor within the Unitary ·State of the Republic of Indonesia?" and "Do you reject the proposed special autonomy for East Timor, leading to East Timor's separation f'rom Indonesia?" 
Indonesia annexed East Timur as its 27th province in 1976. Since then it has endured guerrilla warfare by a small band of soparatisl fighters as well as human rights abuses by the Indonesian military. 
Indonesia's authoritarian President Suhart ignored opinion and refused to grant self-determina­tion to its 800,000 people. 
believe this is in the interest ol' either side," the statement said. 
The stalemnnt said in that case, he would disregard all agrnemnnts achinved in rncent rrngotiations. 
lmplnmenling Israel's original version of the accord would mean an open-cndnd pullout from the West I3ank, and the release of pris­oners selected according to Israeli criteria. Both actions would likely infuriate the Palestinians and l'rcczc the peace process. 
Barak's statement did indicate a softening in Israel's stance on the prisoners issue. It said the govern­ment "has absolutely no intention of releasing prisoners belonging to Islamic Jihad or llamas," two mili­tant Islamic groups that oppose tlrn peace process. 

If you want to get ahead, put the right people beside you. 
We're searching for people who want to move forward. Faster. Care to join us? 
As another year at the University of Notre Dame begins, Ernst & Young would like to welcome everyone back. especially, 
A.J. Altman Heather Gapusan Molly Ott Brian Bastedo John Gavigan Gia Puccini Greg Carroll Charlie Gengler Dave Remick Jeff Connell Dan Golish Kevin Rich Brittany Crawford Joe Hemler Bridget Sample Matt DeDominicis Tom Hundman Kelly Singer Jeff Dobosh Mary Koenig Julie Swanson Jason Elbert Emily Kuhn Brian Tarquinio Kristen Epping Kevin McGoldrick Rebecca Thompson Mike Fairchild Kevin McLean Amy Thornton Hallie Feeman Nicole Mercado Katie Wulff Steph Foster Kelly Nacol 
As summer interns. these students have earned our thanks and our loyalty. They were integral to the continued success of our world class organization. 
Ernst & Young was named one of the 100 Best Comp.anies To Work For in a survey published by FORTUNE® magazine, and offers a dynamic work environment, acompetitive salary and acomprehensive benefits package. For immediate consideration, please forward your resume and salary requirements to: Ernst & Young LLP, Dept 16514, 113 Terrace Hall Avenue, Burlington, MA 01803; Fax Toll Free to: 1-877-4EY-JOBS; or e-mail: dept.16S14@eycareers.com. Visit our Web site at www.ey.com. Ernst & Young LLP, an equal opportunity employer, values the diversity of our work force and the knowledge of our people. 



----------~------­
page 7

Monday, August 30, 1999 The Observer . NEWS 
CANADA 
Memories of Swissair 111 still haunt Nova Scotian town 


Best Price, Quality & Selection. 
Futon Factory Futons are the Smart Choice for Back-to-School 
--Futons to fit every room and budget. --Financing & delivery options available. --Close to campus! --Over 500 futon cover fabrics available. --Futon covers start at $39. --8 futon mattress grades. --Over 20 different frame styles fit every decor. --Home accessories & more. --Futon specialists since 1991 . 
219-273-2660 



A..ssoci:ucd Press 
IIAYSWi\TFH. Nova Scotia 
From c;.,orgP Ahady to 1:1on~nc1i Zuhnr, lhn victims· nanws arP r•tclwd in granilP on a fir-shaded knoll overlooking the ocean whore they died. 
i\ yC1ar ag-o Thursday, those wat.Prs worn strnwn with bro­ken bodies and debris as 1ishcr­mm1 vm1t11rflcl into llrn night in a vain sl\arch for survivors of 


Student Employment Opportunity If you are interested in a job with FLEXIBLE hours and have your own transportation, apply for the 
Notre Dame Cake service. 
Applications available at the Student Activities Office, 315 Lafortune. 
Responsible for pick up and delivery of cakes, cookies, and balloons to students living on campus. Two to three 2-hr shifts per week. 
Days: Monday-Saturday (Excluding Home football game Saturdays) 

Swissair Flight l 11. 
• The Geneva-bound night from New York ended in an instant of' shattering destruction on Snµt. 2, killing the 229 people abonrd, bul echoes of Uie disas­ter linger. 
lnV£\Stigators remain frustrat­
ed in their nffort Lo explain why 
smoke filled tho cockpit 
moments before tlw crash. 
Lawsuits are pflnding. The vic­
tims' families have argued 
among tlrnmselves and with 
Nova Scotia officials over tlrn 
handling of human remains 
and Uw details of' anniversary 
sorvices. 
Three fumilics refused to let 
their rclalivns' names he 
incl ud Pd on the m1•m o ri a I 
stones, which thus list only 226 
people. Some familiP.s a.re skip­
ping this week's s1irvices. 
But morn than 800 rnlativos am expected to altond the nvents. starting with a private 
BLACK BELT INSTRUCTORS 
Exciting children's self ~defense program needs an experienced, mature, responsible black belt who is interested in instructing a class once a week in South Bend or Goshen tor the tall semester. Interested instructors please call Sheri at 765-423-4821. 
"For the families. Io:3, is an awful moment, but it is also a sacred moment." 
John O'Donnell Roman Catholic official 
service Wednesday wlrnn about 20 cof'tins holding unidentified remains will be buried at tho new monument in the coastal hamlnt of Bayswatnr. 
The commP-morations con­clude Thursdav night with an ouldoor. public: service at tlrn Citadel, a hilltop fortress in Halifax. After 229 candlHs ani lighted. and a ship's bell tolls, there will be a minut<i of silence at 10:31 p.m. -the momPnt the out-of-control jumbo jct slammed into Hrn Atlantic with such force a seismograph 25 miles away registered the impact. 

"For the f'amilins, Io::~ I is an awful moment, hut it is also a sacred mon10nt.," said .John O'Donnell, an official nl' thn Homan Catholic archdioccsc of' Halifax who helped org,111iz(1 the events. 
Helativcs will havn an oppor­tu nitv to tour the Shearwator air base near Halifax where investigators hav1•) assmnbl(id more than 1 million piecns of Lim MD-11.jdliiwr recov11rnd hy divnrs and salvage ships. 
Though that wrcckag11 rPµr1•­scnts 90 percent of the aircraft.. kfly sections of t.h(i cockpit. arc missing. Lat1>r in ScptPmbnr, a vessel equippn<l with a suction dredge will try to sur,k up remaining debris that could aid investigators. 
Aftor a ynar of' dotnctivl' work involving some 400 cxp<!rlS, investigators still don't know what started the f'ire that spewed smoke into the cockpit and knocked out tho piano's power. 
They do know that wiring in the front of the plmrn showed signs of arcing -when elec­tricity shoots along a wirn like a lightning bolt. But they don't know whether the arcing start­ed the firn or was causnd by intense heat from another sourcn. 
"It's a very complex inv1\sti­gation, becausn ilrn destruction was so extensive," said Jim llan:is, spokesman for Canada's Transportation Safoty Board. 
VIEWPOINT 
page 8 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Nom Dam<, IN 46556 024 Sourh Oinrng H.U, Norr< Dame, !N 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Michelle Krup3 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGFR  
M. Shannon Ryan  David Rogcro  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  
Laura Perellc  

NEWS EIJITOR: Tim Logau VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Cnlletn G,lllghcn SPORTS EDITOR: Brian Kessler 
SCENE EDITOR: Michad Vanega, SAINT MAJlY's EmTOR: Noreen Gill~spic PHOTO EmTOR: Kevin Dalum 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Aryan Lurz 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Bree Huelat SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers \1C'EB ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kushrn 
CONTROLLER: Timothy Lane GRAPHICS EDITOR: Joe M.uellcr 
CONTACT Us 
OH'ICE MANAGER/GENERAi. INFO .............63l •7471 FAX......... ..... ....... ..................G3 !-(,927 AoVE!tTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu ·• EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDJTORiAsST. ME.................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE...................:....................631-5313 NEWS.......................................................... 631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT... ..................................... 631-5303 observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........ .................................... 631-4543 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu SCENE......................,..................................631-4540 observer.scene. I@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S...... ..................... 631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO.......... ....................... 631-8767 
SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS ..................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://abserver.nd.edu fur daily updares of campus news, sports, fearures and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from rhe Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-rhe 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rares of print ads 
cial <:3mpus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published afi:er 
to meet rhe editors and 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is rhe independem, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of rhe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial coorenr is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither inscitution. Acring as pub­lisher ofThe Observer, the administration of the University of Notre Dame du Lac prohibits the adver­tisemem ofalcohol and The Observer's acceptance of advertisements from specified types ofgroups. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhc opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and departmem editors. Commentaries, leaers and columns present the views of the aurhors and nor necessarily those ofThe Obsaver. Viewpoim space is available w all readc1s. The fri:e expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Quertions regrzrding Ohserotr polideJ shoulJ he direct­ed 10 Editor in ChiefMichelle Krnpa. 
O
THE 

BSERVER Monday, August 30, 1999 

Four Views and an Occasional Point 
As part of my ongoing effort to increase the number of deadlines in my life, I have obtained a position as a Viewpoint columnist. One thing sort of scares me about this: getting the job done would require me to, every week, 
Kate Rowland
invent and submit an 800-word-long column containing, 
Read This. 
presumably, both a 
It May Save
view and point. 
Your Life. 
The view I can always manage to crank out. The point I'm not so sure. 
There is another thing I'm a little worried about, too. It has not escaped my attention that being a Viewpoint columnist is an excellent way to receive mail. By mail I mean nasty letters from people who disagree with me about important issues that will appear in this very spot. 
My goal in this first column is to con­quer both fears. l would like to lay as many views and points on the table as 1 possibly can so I can get them out quickly before I forget them. This will also allow disagreeing souls to get their harshly worded letters out of their sys­tems now, too, so they won·t have to worry about it later when it's midterm week and they have five exams, three papers and a subtly threatening letter to write to a harmless Viewpoint columnist. 
So, in an effort to forgo them this stressful time, I now present my major views and, if I'm lucky, a point or two. 
View #1: Homosexuals are people too. 
Point #1: We should have a non-dis­crimination clause that protects homo­sexuals. We should have an open, University-recognized gay and lesbian group, and this group should certainly be allowed to advertise in The Observer like any other campus group. Virtually every other Catholic university in the United States has a non-discrimination­against-homosexuals clause. We need to admit that we are behind the times and pass the clause. It will show the world that we truly are Christians. 
View #2: Muffet McGraw needs to coach the football team. 

Point #2: Well, maybe not exactly her. But a Muffet McGraw equivalent, some­one with personality and coaching skills who builds and maintains her team, should lead the Irish to the grid­iron. The women's basketball team is· amazing, and we should support them more than we do. But having an equal­ly amazing football team would make a lot of people happy -not just the Universitv accountants and administra­tion, but abunch of elderlv men who remember the Rockne days and a bunch of '88 grads who want to prove to their eight-and nine-year-old chil­dren that Notre Dame is justifiably known for having a good team. 
View #3: The time for co-ed dorms has come. 

Point #3: It's just true. I love my dorm; and I know that it would be a lot harder to be a woman on this campus if I did not live with such a supportive group ofpeople. However, gender rela­tions here bite, and co-ed dorms are one way to help ease the gender ten­sions (so are co-ed mud wrestling meets, but I don't think mentioning that would make the University take me any more seriously). 
Several years ago, it was suggested by student government that co-ed dorms be tried on a one-year basis. Under this proposal, 100 screened seniors would be allowed to live in a dorm that would be co-ed by floor. The proposal was rejected. 
Does the University realize we are not trying to get permission for second­semester freshmen to live in co-ed rooms? This is happening on other campuses. We are trying for the chance to resolve some of the macho/damsel stereotypes that m('n and women here 
SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 

CATBERT: EVIL H.P... OIRECTOR  ~  
,g  
WE LIKE TO PROMOTE FROM WITHIN THE COMPANY, A$0K.  i.. j 1  EXPLAIN WHY YOU WORK HERE If '{OU'RE. 50 SMART.  

hold of themselves and of each other. Having co-ed halls would change a lot of wonderful traditions, but it would also change a lot of damaging tradi­tions. RecSports teams would probably be forced to change, but at the reason­able cost of allowing us to seeing mem­bers of the opposite sex as more than a chance for a hook-up. 
View #4: Women should be ordained. 
Point #4: Not all women, just the ones interested in becoming priests. Until the Church decides to do this, it needs to stop whining about the priest short­age. Look at it like this: let's say you go whining to your mother that you want some apple juice. She says, "There's a bottle in the 'fridge, go pour yourself some." You go to the refrigerator and encounter a bottle of juice. You arc not justified in then whining that you want your juice from a plastic bottle and not a glass bottle. You are being petty and ridiculous. You are being even more petty and ridiculous if you arc a 2000­year-old religion and you are whining that you want your priests in testos­terone-filled XY bottles instead of estro­gen-filled XX bottles. 
I could go on. 1 probably will. 1 have a year of entertaining you all week-in and week-out to work in all my views and the occasional point. However, 1 think these four views are enough to keep those hyper-conservatives busy for awhile. 
To those of you who are more moder­ate, more tolerant, 1 look forward to spending this time with you every other week. To those of you who fall into the hyper-conservative category, I hope to hear from you soon!­
Something tells me I will. 

Kate Rowland is a senior pre-med and Spanish major. lier column appears euery other Monday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not rzeces­sarily those of The Obseruer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'The best cure for insomnia is a Monday morning." 
Sandy Young 


VIEWPOINT 

Monday, Augu~t 30, 1999 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Ban on gay ·ads is outrageous, immoral 
Tlw n•r·pnf at.tack on gays and lnsbians hy tlw University adminis­tration with n•gards to "gay ads" is m1ir1' than ot1lragiw11s ~ il is 1:rim­inal and immoral. 
Fallwr Malloy, Chandra Johnson ancl tlwir ilk arr• acting in a way that 1·a11 0111~ lw doscrihcd as bigot­ml and hatnful. 
Notre Ilamn is a laughing stock among univPrsiffos -and rightful­ly so. What othi•r univnrsity goes lo sud1 IPngths to disrnurng,, a lwalthy rPs1wct f'or f'rnP spPnch and human dignity'! 
It is hard to lwlicve that in this "agfl ol' global d1imocra1ization" n•nsorship is allowPd l'rnn reign lrnrn at Noln1 Danw. This is sup­posPd to lw a placn of' higlwr learn­ing. and l'rl'<' spPech is a vital part of' that pro(:Pss. 
Considnr also that Lhe wording of' til<' policy is v.-ry vagtw. I wonder what or who will lw ,wxt on the administration's "f'reti spr\ech chop­ping blork'"? !'Primps it will be your group or your idoas. 
Civnn this haunting, Orwellian spnct!'r, it is clnar that all campus organizations. no matter their gen­nral purpose, must take a stand on this issue. All individuals must take a stand on this matter as well. For 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Notre Darrn:-i has rnntractnd for six viewing nights per year at tho u11iv1!rsity of Arizona's Large Hinocular Telescope (Liff) on Mou11t Graham at $2(,7,000 p(!r night. Thi! National Optical Astronomy Observatories (NOAO), rPprt•s1mting thn top U.S. universi­lif'S, rnjnctml Mt. Graham in 1987 noting that its turbulent. murky, doutl-enshroudcd skins had suit­able viewing only hall' ol' the tinw. 
Tlrnrd'orn. Notre Dame could actually pay $533,000 pnr night ­which is Pquivah\nt to about $50,000 an hour and $1,000 a minute. Think of how many needy students could enroll at Notre Damti t!ach year for that. 
Notre Dame may have to wait a long limP for the LBT and its two eight-meter mirrors. The largest mirror UA has madti, Uw 6.5 meter Mt. llopkins mirror, after nearly a decade, is still not ready. UA has nnver made an eight-meter or larg­er mirror, even though there are already seven of them operational world-wide. Thii UA's first eight-this is an issue of human dignity and First /\rncnclmenl rights. This is an issun that goes to the heart of' what is nrnant by the phrase, "highnr learning." No one should Im silent. 
I nspecially urge C:ommon SPnsn and Scholaslic to take this issue as tlwir own. Thus far, both have benn lacking in their v),giliu~ce to .. speak up on so-called gay 1ss11es. But this attack on the First /\11rn11drnnnt should enable these p11blications to see that t111~ admin­istration's hat.du! attitudo towards gays a!Tcr:ts all sludnnts ~ <Wt>ry singl<' onn of th<'ir readers. 
Finally, I call upon tho sheepish Notrn Damn l'acultv to take a stand, gain strength in n~mbcrs and face down this attack on frendorn and liberty. For too long the faculty has stood by and allowed the adminis­tration to attack gay and lesbian students and faculty members. 
And in their silence, they have comrnittPd a grossly immoral act. 
Jay Johnson 
Graduate Smdenr Government and International Studies Attgusc 27, I 999 
mnter mirror was a casting fiasco. Their mirror constructions have bocn dogged by confusion and delay. 
Perhaps Notrn Dame wishes to show support for the Vatican's con­troversial ML Graham telescope and tile Vatican's desecration of a sacrml /\pache site and fragmenta­tion of America's southernmost bormtl ecosystem. To bulldoze and dynamite their way up there, U/\ and the Vatican lobbied and obtained congressional riders exempting themselves from U.S. environmental and cultural protec­tion laws. 
Ilave morality and ethics been replaced by some unconscionable desire lo shore up an environmen­tally dysfunclional project under the prctonse of academic purpose? Such comportment by Notre Dame is disheartening. 
Charles J. Babbitt Class of '67 Phoenix, Ariz. August 23, 1999 
oss~RVER page 9 
<Ji 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Security needs to lighten up 
I would personally like to thank campus security for their quick response to the rowdy crowd of Siegfried men who were rambling around campus as early as 6 
a.m. Saturday morning. 
Lord knows, there's nothing as "danger­ous" as a bunch of students filled with some of the school spirit that everyone was so fired up about Friday night. If security hacln't tried to send us home, people might have actually gotten out of BED -and everyone knows that that just leads to anarchy. 
Seriously, some people (especially those that called security, thank you very 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Hard work should not be source of embarrassment 
Being a 17-year-old Niles High senior and interested in going on to your univer­sity, Iwas reading The Observer that 
my mother brought home. 
I came across a letter that really bugged me. J\n African-American alumnus had writ­ten to the editor in regards to being asked if he was a jani­tor while vis­iting cam­pus. Ile 
\

mentioned how much embarrass­ment it 
caused him and asked what we are doing to build new attitudes con­cerning racial sensitivity. 
First of all, since when is being a hard­worker embarrassing? My mother is a janitor at Notre name. and I can honestlv say I am proud of her and her job. To me, much!) need to lighten up. It's not like we sang off-key Saturday, and some people might have actually enjoyed it. Although it is nice to know that security has no qualms about going af'tl'r people or stu­dents seen as troublemakers, I think they might have better things to do. 
Especially on the first home game of the season. 
Jeremy Joslin Junior Siegfried Hall August 28, 1999 

it shows that she is a dedicated person ­not only to her job, but to her family. Secondly, how can you tic this sit­
uation to being racial? It was an honest mistake. We are going into the new millennium and should real­ize that pooplc make honest 

""'  mistakes  
~'  and move  
\~  on!  
We  
should  
not have  

to stand 
here and
,ij11! 
and try 
,..) . 
,._ to turn it into something it is not. 
,, 
Carrie Leonard 
Senior Nilcs fl igh School August 27, I 999 

# 

BOOK REVIEW 

College gets a serving of self-help 
By MIKE VANEGAS 
Scene Ediror 
fnlcring North or South Dining Hall. one might hope each item on the menu -from angel hair pasta to zucchini -is boiled, baked, fried or steamed with tho warmth of caring hands and the compassion or thoughtful eyes reading a recipe book. ln some cases, yes, dining hall food is made with good intentions, but what about when person­al attention is needed to confront the trauma every college student sufferes on a daily basis'? 
To heal collegiate suffering, four Nrw York Times bestselling authors compiled a book of self­help stories that deal with college life and the obstacles it presents. "Chicken Soup for the College Soul" considers perspectives from parents, profes­sors, celebrities and, of course, students to create a loose guide to living life well in a college setting. 
To some extent, the compilation succeeds in pre­senting an all around view of the many bumps and detours a student may experience throughout a college career. But the book's concentration 011 cute humor and sentimental memories sometimes drags into a realm of corniness difficult to ignore. 
Taking the chronological approach, the book starts during senior year of high school, as stu­dents begin applying to colleges and receiving acceptance or decline letters. Including an essay from a college-admission application, bloopers from other essays, lessons learned by students who were declined into going to the local college and a message from Dave Barry, this chapter certainly gets the message that getting into college is just as crucial to one's sanity as the college experience is itself. 
The high point cle-arly was the message by Dave Barry, who cleverly blows off the college visit as an attempt by the college to prove that they are the best college out there. Several of his points apply directly to the Notre Dame experience, particularly those regarding overbearing parents who have been mapping out their son's or daughter's life since conception. He also questions the value of such subjects as "Seventeenth-Century English metaphysical poetry," realizing a conversation will rarely turn to such scholarly matters. 
The following chapter discusses one of the more difficult periods of any person's life, the transition from high school to college life. This chapter nose­dives into a realm of sentimentality that reverses the comic tone of the first chapter. At this point, the change-up doesn't feel as an attack on the seri­ousness of the transition experience; instead, it efficiently brings out the deep emotion involved in leaving the nest and enduring college as an indi­vidual. 
A remarkable poem from the perspective of a young man leaving his mother, "The 'No Hug' Rule" makes a whirlwind of the emotions felt by any college student who struggles with a desire for parental involvement and independence. Though not a traditionally beautiful work of poetry, "The 'No Hug' Rule" touches especially upon the emo­tional viewpoint of the male, who struggles with keeping up a macho guise regardless of the emo­tions he may feel. 
The poem is also refreshing as the majority of the other stories come from the female perspec­tive, touching on sisterhood, feminine encourage­ment, dating, breaking up and date rape. Though a couple of these stories peaked some interest, par­ticularly "How to Get an A on Your Final Exam" and "Reverse Living," most of the stories fall into the huge ocean of schmaltz that characterizes a Robin Williams movie. Such lim)S as "One mention of Garfield (an off-campus home at Northwestern University). and all our faces relax with a softness usually reserved for remembering a first love" are prime examples of the cutesy femininity found in several of the book's stories. 
This cuteness (,nee again takes a turn for the seri­ous as the book turns to the "Tough Stuff" to help students deal with the important things that happen in life. The chapter is devoted to death, social isola­tion and rape and provides a dose of the intense 
emotion that can come from any intense experi­ence. Not entirely depressing, these stories attempt 
to take goodness of what appears to be utter bad­
ness. Of course, there is no reason not to see this chapter as merely an after-school special in book form. 
The book then goes into a mode of pure encour­

-----------~ ----~----­
#1· New York Times 
.. BESTSELLING AUTHORS 
Jack Canfield Mark Victor Hansen Kimberly Kirberger Dan Clark 
Inspiring and Humorous Stories About College 
agement, as it lets everyone know that anyone can do whatever they please if they put their mind to it. A common theme of this chapter centers on disad­vantagcd persons making their way into college despite discouragement from the establishment of experienced, college-educated snobs who know who belongs in college and who belongs in the projects. The poem "From the Heart of a Blessed Temple" positively attacks the establishment, presenting a black kid from the projects who goes to college and graduate school after 30 years of believing "black kids from the projects do not go to college." It was the first truly inspirational moment. 
The chapter continues to pep up those disadvan­taged souls who some people would call "slow." Establishing a "Second Kind of Mind," one story shows the mind is a mysterious thing and positive 
encouragement can go a long way. 
The final chapter has fun with graduations, once again calling upon Dave Barry to entertain rnadPrs with his wacky personality. Remarking on such non­graduation related subjects as area codes and box­opening semi-circles, his "Life Lessons" must be read to fully appreciate the value it adds to the col­lection as a whole. 
The inclusion of Dave Barry in the opening and closing chapters indeed made "Chicken Soup for the College Soul" a delight to read. It is always nice to laugh when discussing stuff close to the heart ­college life. His humor was the perfect remedy for the rotten cheese with which the authors infected the rest of the book. It was the dips into mushy heartwarming, love that really put the impact on the college soul in question. 


NSIDER 
Monday, August j(), 1999 01~tRVER Notre D1'1me vs. Kansas 
-------_-_----~-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_------=========================--===-=-=--=-----=-=---=--=--=--=-----_-_---:_-_-_-_-_-_---------=---=---=-----=-----=---=---­


JOE STAAK!The Observer 

Tony Driver dives into the end zone with 58 seconds left in the first quarter. Driver's touchdown capped off a first quarter dominated by the Irish. 
Jefferson's block reverses Irish fortunes 
Hy MIKE CONNOLLY 
t\~\<1Ci.m: s,\(\{CS 1:.ditor 
l.11rkily for Irish fans, Clifford .Jpf'frrso,; is l'orgntful. 
Aflr>r stumbling on a fadn rnutn and walrhing Tt\rmairrn 1:ulton catch a tou('hclown pass, .ldl'Prson -in his first t'ollq~iatP start -put the play lwllintl him in NolrP Danw's 48-13 vic­\orv ovPr Kansas. 
:.I had lo marl and put it behind m••·" .l<'fl'•irson said. "Being a IJB, coadws lt>ach you lhal you haV(! to havl' a. short llll'lllory. So I had a short 1111111H11·y and put it Jwhind mn." 
Wlwn ttll' Irish offnnsn stumblt!d out of' Llw hlocks in tlrn second half and .Jarious .Jackson thrnw his Sflcond ol' lhrnn inlP.rceptions on the d,ty, .Jdl'Nson had a rha11c1i to make a big play. 
Kansa!-1 kickrn· Jmi Garcia litHid up !'or a f'i•dd goal lhal could cul llrn Irish IPnd to four and boost Urn Jayhawks' 1·0111'idP11t'.(' PVPll highPr. But that kick 11.,v,~r ca111I' !lPar the uprights. 
t,•l'krson tl••w {!own the line from tlrn rigIi t rn rn 1~ r and blo e k I'd Garcia·s Htll'lll(ll. 
FPl!ow sophomorl' Hocky Boiman 
Irish score 28-unanswered points to pull away from Jayhawks, 48-13, zn Eddie Robinson Classic 
scooped up tlrn loos,i ball and returned it to Urn .layhawks' 34-yard line. 
"I wanted somebody to make a play and whnn coach called block right," Jpfferson said. "I know I had a chance lo got tho monrnntum on our side again." 
From that point on, momentum clearly worn blue and gold. 
Tony Fisher scornd on a lvvo-yard run al'ler tlrn block to increase the Irish lead to 2 7-13. Fisher finished the day with 111 yards on l 3 carries. 
"Momentum swings all the time in l'nolball games." i;enior captain Jackson said. "One moment you havo it; ono momnnt vou don't. I could tf'!I that the defense ~as more up-tnmpo in the second half'. Once they stopped them and blocknd that liald goal, that crt1atod momentum. Big hits, bi){ plays -anything can change the momentum of a football game." 
Two minutes later, Anthonv Denman returned Kansas quarterback Zac Wegner's fumble 31 yards for a touch­down and a commanding 34-B lead. Fii;her added another touchdown and back up quarterback Arnaz Battle completnd the scoring with a nourish. lie ran 74 yards and broke several Kansas tackles for his first career rushing touchdown. 
"We talk about how momentum is one play away from coming our way," Irish head coach Bob Davie said. "That's the great thing about college football, you never know whon that big play is coming. You never know who is going to make that play but you arc always one play away." 
The Irish seemed to have momentum at the game's opening. Irish safoty A'.Jani Sanders smar.ked Jayhawks 

tailback Uavid Winbush on Kansas' first possession to jar tlrn ball loosn. Boiman rccovernd thn fumble and three plays later, .Jackson scampered 38 yards for a touchdown . 
The Jayhawks' rrnxt possnssion ended in a anothnr turnovnr. Deveron llarpnr played Wngrwr's pass atlnmpl perfoctly and rnturrrnd it 22 yards for a touchdown. llarpnr's 
interception was thn Sl)nior's first ol' his carnnr. 
After anotlrnr Winbush l'umbln, junior tailback Tony Driver c!ovn orw yard into the end zonn to givn Notrn Dame a 20-0 lnad at the end of the first quartor. 
In tlrn second quartnr, however, Kansas struck back. Weg1wr hil Milch Chandler for a 14-yard touchdown. Chandler led the .Jayhawks rnceiving with 88 yards on four catclrns. 
Wegner hit Fulton thr<'() minutns and 50 soconcls lat(ir to cut thn !nad Lo 20­13 going into Iwlf'timn. 
"I felt like we had thn game und1)r control," Davie said. "But just thn way it was going them at tlrn •irHI of the half. We let them havli momentum and it was kind of' that snakn-bit fonling a little bit. I was a litt!n concnrrwd hut I really felt we had thn game in control." 

quote of the game

player of the game 
stat of the game 
Tony Fisher 
363 yards rushing
"We cannot spot Notre Dame 

In the firsl start ofhis mreer, 
The success ofthe Irish ground
20 points and expect to be

the sophomore tailiJack gained 
game proved why the
sucessful." 

11 1 yards on 13 carries and 
Jayhawks ranked 107th
Terry Allen 

scored two touchdowns. 
against the run last year.
Kansas head coach 

page2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Monday, August 30, 1999 
report card 
C+ 
quarterbacks: Jarious Jackson's three interceptions combined with 9-20 passing won't cut it against 
Michigan. 
A-
running backs: Inexperienced ntn­
ners managed to combine for 203 
yards rushing. One fumble 
marred an otherwise great game. 
wide receivers: naki Nelson led the B squad wilh three: calchi:s. but most o(tlrn team hadfew opportu­nities for receptions. 
A-
offensive line: Three new starters 
committed no pen allies and 
allowrd only two sacks. Rein 
blocking mas solid. 
defensive line: Even without two 
starters. they should have been 
able to put more pressure on the 
Kansas quarterback. 
A-
linebackers: Three new starters 
combined/or 13 tackles. two fum­
ble recoveries and many hard 
hits. Back-ups played well. too. 
B+ 
defensive backs: Corners were beat twice for touchdowns but scored a touchdown offan interception. 
Starting safeties made 13 tackles. 
D 
special teams: Four scholarship kick­ers resulted in a missedfield goal, a blocked field goal. a missed extra 
point and a 33-yard punt. 
B+ 
coaching: Playing Battle in second quarter was a wise decision. Tailback rotation worked well and 
4-3 defensive front was effective. 
overall: Not a bad opening effort. Very sloppy. but a win is a win.
2.89 
adding up the nulllbers 
consecutive games in which 
3 
Kansas quarterback Zac 
Wegner has suffered a concus­
sion 
9 
band members who were treated for heat exhaustion 
career minutes 
Deveron Harper 
played before his first 
495 
interception 
57 
seconds it took the Irish offense to score on its opening 
possession 
yards that Kansas punter Joey Pelfanio's second half punt 
75
traveled 
28 
earliest date the Irish have ever opened the season 
consecutive season-openers 
3 
Bob Da11ie has won 
1 
times John Marandi vomited on the football 

IRISH INSIGHT 
Battle-testing Arnaz proves wise decision 
Sometimes you don't real­ize your mistakes until it's too late. That's exactly what happened to Bob Davie 10 months ago. 
On Nov. 21. Davie's 8-1 team was on the verge of' defeat­ing a tal­ented 
LSU 
team. With the victory, thr-Irish were in position to grab an elu-­sive BCS spol. and play for millions of dollars. 
Then it all came undone. 
Three seconds remained. Jarious Jackso11 was told to take an intentional safety, which would have ended the game. Instead, he was hit twice. 
First, linebacker Arnold Miller came through the line and nailed Jackson, then strong safety Clarence LeBlanc finished the dam­age. Jackson and the team's season ended with an MCL injury to his right knee. 
The skeptics soon came out in bunches wondering why Davie kept Jackson in the game. 
The real question, howev­er, was who would replace Jackson. Neither backup ­junior Eric Chappell and freshmen Arnaz Battle ­had seen significant playing time all year. It showed in the following week's game against USC, where the two combined for four intercep­tions and completed less than one-third of their pass­es in a 1O;O loss. 
Davie won't repeat 1998's mistakes. 
Instead of resting on the laurels of' the fifth-year senior Jackson, Da~ie insert­ed Battle into action against the first team Kansas defense. The Irish were up 20 points at the time, but if this were a year ago, Jackson would have certainly been in the game. 
for evidence, look at the Halloween game against Baylor. Ahead 24-3 with 14 minutes left in the third quarter against a weak team, Jackson remained in the game-until midway through the fourth quarter. 
Now a year older and wiser. Battle proved that he can run the football, highlighted by a 74-yard touchdown scamper in the fourth quarter to put the game out of reach. 
"Last year I had a lot of setbacks with injuries," Battle said after the game. "It was a great feeling to come out and make some plays." 
"He made those runs pretty con­sistently in practice," Davie said following Saturday's game. "He has a special talent running the football." 
Rut can Im direct the team? Only time will tell. 
Battle came into the game Saturdav on th<' fourth Irish series -far earlier than any of the three games (excluding USC) where he saw action last year. Ile ran three option plays to the left side of the field, pitching twice to Tony Fisher for 20 total yards, along with a keeper for a minimal gain. But he also overthrew Bobby Brown in the end zone and threw an incomple­tion intended for Javin Hunter on successive· plays from the 20-yard line. 


He was reinserted in the fourth quarter. On second and six from Notre Dame 26-yard line, Battle again underthrew David Givens. The very next play, Battle scram­bled right on a 
keeper. broke a "We've got to get Arnaz year ago, nothing tackle and is written in
Battle in the game. He's a
reversed himself to stone. the left and the game-breaker." "In tlrn spring, rest was history. Coach l)avie said I 
Those two plays was going to play
Bob Davie 
define Arnaz in order to gain
Irish head coach
Battle. 
Without a doubt, 

he's one of the most athletic quar­
terbacks in college football. He has 
tailback speed with the toughnrss 
of a fullback. When he's in the 

game. he's reminiscent of a young 
Tony Rice. Battle has the athletic ·skilis that no coach can teach. He 
can improvise and get positive 
yardage out of a broken play. 

But he mus.t throw the ball bet­
ter. 

At this point in time, Battle is a 
mediocre passer. Nobody will mis­
take him for Tim Couch in terms of 
accuracy. Battle does not have the 
rifle of John Elway or the football intelligence of' a Peyton Manning. 
In the present, however, that's not the end of the world for the Irish. 
What's encouraging is that he's getting a chance to perform. 
The only way he'll improve his timing and accuracy is if he gets quality time. Jackson is the clear­cut starter but, as the Irish can 
attest to from a 
experience," said 
Battle. "This year we're going to do a lot of' things at quarterback and we'll tako a beat­ing. so I'll need to be a capabl11 backup. 
"We've got to get Arnaz Battle in the game," Davie added. "He's a game-breaker. Plus, we need to get him settled down throwing the · football. lie needs to play." 
Apparently, Davie has loarned from his mistakes. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Monday, August 30, 1999 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Fisher, Driver try to fill Denson's shoes 
Hy BRIAN KESSLER Spurts Fditor 
"/\.()_" is laking on anotlrnr 11wa11ing for this ynar's Irish fooLIJa II lPam. 
But with 01w ganrn undor 
tlwir !wits, thn Irish an• quirk­ly l('art1i11g a n d adjusting to lht• 11rst 
S!'HSOII " A I' l 11 r 



ll,·n:-,on." Fisher 
I 11 Saturday's 48-1 :-i win over Kansas. lht· Irish prov1•d oncP again that ttwy don't r«·build at tailback, tlu•y simply rt>load. 
Tht• Pxplosivl' 1·11111hin,1lion of' T" r r a IH'" 11 11 war cl. Tuny l;islwr. lony l>riwr has lrnad rnarli Boh l>avi<' and his staff ro11rid1•111 ahoul tlw Irish run­ning attack. 
In addiLio11, f'1·psJiman .Julius .lonPs, appt'itrs to IJP !hi\ l'ut.url' at tailback for Notrn Dami·. 
"W,•'vp got sonw harks: Fish1•r. llriVPI', lloward and .Julius," llavin said. "I think you'll s111, as thl' sPason goHs 1111 !hal \\'I' lwv1• somP s11 . •Pd at tailha<"k. And I hope that wc•ll hn•ak soml' mon• big runs." 
1.-islil'I' had thP higgesl ol' Junior tailback Tony Driver is wrapped up by a Kansas defender in Saturday's 48-13 victory over the Jayhawks. Driver, who thnsl' rnns with his 4(1-yard returned to the offensive side of the ball, rushed for 45 yards on 13 carries. sn11111H·r l'rom s<"rimmagP mid­
tPam today. This offense is yard out. the Big 12. with Michigan," tho senior 
way Lhr1111gh th1• third quarl11r. 
capabln or alot of' great things While Fislrnr may havo won Aftor mixing up the run and quarterback said. ".You arcm'tOn st\l'OrHI -a nd-fi vn. tlw this snason. I think I jumped a tlrn rirst battle of the backs, pass in the first half, Notre going to beat a learn like that
sophomon• tailback sprinted 
big hurdle this afternoon in Davie will continue to feature Dame returned to smash-or any otlHn team on our up llw rniddln, hrnkn a tackle my f'irst gamP with some sig-both runners in the Irish back-mouth football in tlrn tinal 30 scheduln just running tlrn hall. 
a n cl was of'I' lo I h<' r a cc s. 
nificant. runs. I worked all of' field. minutes and put away the You have to put tlw ball in thelwfort• making a diving !nap 
the nPrvous bugs out today "It's going to be close all game, scoring 28 unanswered air."
for till' PIHi z1m1•. 
and now I can continue tlrn year, so it's nice to have both points. Tho Irish rushing game did
"l:isltnr clid a lot or tht• run­
rest of Llw season without oftlrnm," he said. In the second half, Notre tho job against tlrn .layhawks.
ning 011 his own," llavin said. 
tlinm." SoplrnmorP. lloward tthren Danrn rushed, 30 times for 273 Notrn Danw nendml I(13 rush­
"!IP didn't rPally hav1• any 
l>riv1\r marked his return to carries, seven yards) and yards and threw just live pass-ing yards out of Denson lasts11rl' lilol'ks." · · tailhack with a 45-yard rush-Jones (two carries, 12 yards) cs. season to knock off thn theIn his l'irsl. l'arPnr start. 
ing pfTort on 1:{ carries. Tim also saw action at tailback. Captain Jarious Jackson, Wolverines.
Fislwr talliPd 111 vards on I:{ junior tailback gave the Irish a The Irish racked up 363 however. realizes that the In less than a w1wk. Notrnrarri1•s ancl two lot;chdowns. 
20-0 first quarter lead when yards rushing against a Irish can't rely solely on the Dame will !'ind out how the
"I was s11rpris11d how wdl I ho leapnci' ovor the Kansas Kansas defonsc, which fin-run. ground game faros againstplayt•cl today," 1:islwr said. 
ddonso and scornd fro!TI one ished last against the run in "We have to get big on big Michigan in A.D.
"WI' play1•d v11ry wnll as a 
WIDE RIGHT 


scoring summary & stats 
scoring  1st  2nd  3rd  4th  Total  
Kansas  0  13  0  0  13  
Notre Dame  20  0  14  14  48  
team statistics  KU  ND  
first downs  14  22  
rushes-yards  30-122  51-363  
passing-yards  149  89  
comp-att-int  17-33-1  9-20-3  
punt return-yards  1-5  -3-39  
kick return-yards  7-156  1-21  
punts-yards  6-303  1-33  
fumbles-lost  4-3  1-1  
penalties-yards  8-62  3-24  
lime ofpossession  26:17  33:43  
individual statistics  
passin_q  

ND -Jackson 9-17-3, BatUe 0-3-0 Kansas-Wegner 13-24-1, Smith 4-9-0 rushing 

ND -Fisher 13-111, Jackson 12-85. Battle 2-75, Driver 13-45, Lopienski 3-14, Goodspeed 3-13, Jones 2-12, Howard 3-7 Kan.ms Winbush 16-77, Childs 3-22, Bowles 5-21, Smith 4­11, Wegner 2, -9 
receiving ND -Nelson 3-24, O'Leary 2-24, Brown 1-16, Getherall 1-14, Driver 1-6, Hunter 1-5 Kansas-Chandler 4-38, Winbush 4-28, Fulton 3-34, Childs 2­6, Gully 1-20, Hill 1-8, Bowles 1-8, Hurst 1-7 
tackles ND -Nicks 7, Sanders 7, Jefferson 7, Denman 6, Pierre­Antoine 6, Cooper 6, Harper 4, Dykes 3, Wisne 3, Irons 3, 
Jackson 2, Roberts 2, Ching 2, Sapp 2, Israel 2, Lalayelte 2, Driver 1, Harrison 1, Jones 1, Hildbold 1 Kan.~as-Erb 10, High 9, Lomax 9, Sands 6, Leclair 6, Nesmith 5, Bowers 4, Rayford 3, Davison 3, Murphy 3, Roe 3, Alkinson 3 
scoring summary  
1st  
ND -11:36 Jackson 38 yd run, Sanson kick, 7-0 ND -11:19 Harper 22 yd lnler­cepllon return. kick tailed, 13-0 ,\1) -:58 Drl,er 1yd run, Sanson kick, 20·0  
2nd  ....  
Kif ­3:52 C~andtor 14 yd pass from Wegner, kick failed, 20·6 A'/1-:02 Fuilon 30 yd pass from Wegner, Garcia kick, 20·13  
NIJ -9:02 Fisher 2yd run, Sanson kick, 27-13 NIJ-7:29 Deman 31 yd lum­bla recovery. Sanson kick 34-13  
4th  - 
,V/J -6:49 fisher 46 yd run, Sanson kick, 41-13 NU-2:05 Batlle 74 yd run. Sanson kick, 48·13  - 

~HE 

Notre Dame vs. Kansas vnSERVER Monda~August30, 1999 

JOHN DAILY/The Observer  JEFF HSUfThe Observer  
Anthony Denman (39) battles Kansas running back Mitch Bowles. The junior made six tackles  Rocky Boiman (30) and Harrison Hill (1) pursue a loose ball.  
in his first start as an inside linebacker.  Boiman recovered a fumble and a blocked kick Saturday.  

Grounding the Jayhawks 
No. 18 Notre Dame won its fnurth­straighl season-opener. 48-13, courtesy of' a massive ground assault that racked 
up 363 yards on 51 carries. The Irish squandered an early 20-point lead before pulling away in the second hall' with tailback Tony Fisher's 46-yard scamper to the end zone and quarter­back Arnaz Battle's 75-yard touchdown run. The win markr-d thr-10th straight home victory by Bob Davie's squad and 
the fourth victory over the Jayhawks. The Notre Dame-Kansas series now stands at 4-1-1. 




JOHN DAIL Y{fhe Observer 

Sophomore tailback Tony Fisher falls across the goal llne to cap a 46-yard touchdown run -the longest of his short career. 
H H 
Monday, August JO, 1999 page 11 

Excerpts from 'Chicken Soup' 
THE HUMOR 
A letter from college 

$rhool i$ really grc~al. I am making lol$ of' friend$ and $tudying very hard. With all my $turf, I $imply can't think of anything I need. $0 if' you would like, you can ju$t $end me a card. a$ 1 would lovn lo lwar f'rom you. 
l.ovP. 
$11$1111 
I'.$. Thank$ for $Pnding llw $weatnr. 
llPar Susan. 
I k,'\JOw that aslroNOmy, nwNOmics and occaNOgraphy are eNOugh to keep even an hoNOr studPnt husy. ))oNOL forget that pursuit. of kNOwledge is a NOble task, and you can never study nNOugh. 
Love, 
Morn 
I'.$. Thanks for your N(Jte! 

THE EMOTION 
A dad says good-bye 

I watrlwd lwr and her motlrnr dncorate her college dormitory room. Everything in place. organiznd and arrangocl, just so. Attractively designed bulleting board with care­fully snlnctocl. and precisely cut. colored paper. Pictures and remembrances throughout 111' lwr clnarnsl frinnds. Drawers and boxes under the bed. lier room nicely accomodates not only her clothes. accessories and bric-a-brac, but her roommate's as well. I closely monitor that whirl! I would have. in the past, ignored, knowing that this limn is different. As lwr half of' Lim room takes on her essence, I begin to accept that her room at home is llll longer lrnrs. It is now ours. Our room for her when she visits. 
I lind mys1dl' thinking of when I heir! lwr in the cradle of' my arm, in the chair alongside my wif'o's hospital bed. Ono day old. So small, so beautiful, so perfect, so totally reliant on her new. untest11d parents. All manner of thoughts went through my mind as I exam­iiwd hor evfiry foaturn f'or what s11,1mrd to ho an etornity. Time marchns rolcntlessly. 
Slw looks up now, catching mo staring at her, causing her to say to her mother, "Mom, Dad's looking at nm funny." 
Tlw last fnw days, I touch her arm. her face -any thing -knowing that when my wife and I rnturn homo. she will not be with us and there will be nothing to touch. I have so much to say. but no words with which to say it. 
My lifo changed from the day I drove this child home from the hospital. I saw myself differently that day, and it has led to a lot or places that I would never have found on my own. 
Slw says, "It'll be all right, Dad. I'll be home from school soon." I tell her she will have a grnat year. but I say little else. I am afraid somehow to speak, afraid I'll say something ton small f'or what I'm reeling, and so I only hold on to our good-bye hug a little longer, a litl111 tighter. 
I gaze intn her eym; and turn to go. My wire's eyes follow her as she leaves us. Mine do not. Maybe if I don't look, I can imagine that she really hasn't gone. I know that what she is embarking upon is exciting and wonderful. I remember what the world looked like to mu when evurything was new. 
As I walk to the car with my wife at my side, my eyes are wet, my heart is sore, and I realize that my life is changing forever. 
AP ENTERTAINMENT BRIEFS 
Ex-rapper seeks higher education 
ATIANTA Ex-rapper Mase swore off hip hop to seek a higher calling. Now, he's seeking a higher nducation. The 20-ycar-old, whose real name is Mason Betha, enrolln'd at Clark Atlanta University this scmestor. n11~joring in business. 
Ma..<;p's rnligious convictions led him to leave rap behind and switch to gospel music. Magic Johnson's l.os Angelos-based tahmt agm1cy is now managing his careor. 
The New York native visited the historically black school two months ago beltJre enrolling in classes, which began Aug. l 9. 
"He fits right in and acts just like any other student," said Cotchel Caldwell, a school spokeswoman. "lln's not signing autographs. lle's very serious about his education.'' 
.... 

He may be downplaying his superstar status on campus. but ho docs get special parking privileges and is living off campus, unlike most freshmen. 
HBO receives 16 Emmy Awards 
PASADENA, Calif'. Cable channel HBO captured a loading 16 Emmy awards Saturday in a prelude to the main Sept. 12 ceremony. 
Tracoy Ullman and Mel Brooks wore among those receiving acting trophies, while "Alice in Wonderland" was the most-honored program with four creative arts awards. 
NBC received 11 honors, the second-highest network number of awards. ABC picked up seven, with six apiece going to CBS and Fox. Cable channel A&E and PBS each earned four awards. 
Brooks was honored as outstanding guest actor in a comedy series for his role as Uncle Phil on NBC's "Mad About You," whi111 Ms. Ullman was named in the matching actress category for playing a therapist on "Ally McBeal." 
The previously announced Governors Award was presonted to MTV's "Fight for Your Rights: Tako a Stand Against Violence" and The History Channel's "Save Our llistory." 
Emmys in 27 major categories will bn presented in two weeks at the Shrine Auditorium in Los Angeles. The three-hour c11remony wili be broadcast at 8 p.m. EDT on Fox. 
Ricky Martin returns to Singapore 
SINGAPORE 

Ricky Martin ushered in a new era of concert-going freedom in con­servative Singapore last year. On Sunday, the red-hot Puerto Hican sensation was back urging fans to start "Livin' La Vida Loca." 
Some 800 die-hard Martin lovers waited outside in the rain during a 1 1/2-hour delay caused by lighting 11quipment problems bef'orn the show began. About 300 had won ticket'> to the event. The rest were members of the media and others invited by organizers Sony Music Entertainment Singapore. 
Martin, 27, is making a strong crossover into the English-language market with his recent album featuring the hit "Livin' the Vida Loca." 
Martin's appearance in Singapore la..-.t year marked the first time concert-goers in the conservative city-state were allowed to dance during the show under new. relaxed laws. 
-

Gibson donates to women's shelter 
HOCK 1111.L, S.C. 

When Mel Gibson leaves South Carolina after filming "The Patriot," he'll be remembnred for helping expand a local domestic viohmce shelter. 
Gibson made a sizable contribution to the Safe Passage Inc. shelter this past week, said Peggy Payne, shelter executive director. Payne wouldn't say exactly how much Gibson gave, but noted that "it'll go a 
-

long way toward our new facility we're building." 
Gibson's publicist, J\lan Nierob, confirmed the donation but said the actor does not like to comment on his philanthropic work and contri­butions. 
Gibson does not necessarily make contributions in areas where he is filming, Nierob said. but in this case the actor chosH Safe Passage Inc. from a list ofSouth Carolina charities compiled at his request. 
"He found a place he thought would bnncfit greatly," Nierob said. 
Safe Passage plans to start building a bigger shelter in Hock Hill in November or December. It will have six bedrooms and bathrooms and offices, as well as play, dining and iaundry areas for as many as 25 people. 
Dick Clark pitches Millenios 
GOLDEN VALLEY, Minn. Dick Clark, the ageless king of New Year's Eve, is pitching a new breakfast cereal celebrating the end of the millennium. 
Clark will soon introduce Millenios, a sweeten11d whole grain oat and corn cereal made into 2s and Os to mark the upcoming calendar switch to 2000. ,_ 
"Everyone knows Dick Clark is synonymous with New Year's Eve," said Pam Becker, a spokeswoman for General Mills Inc. The limited-time offering will hit store shelves in September. General Mills likely will sell the cereal through January. 
r--~--~-­
' 
! 
j page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, August 30, 1999 
====================================================================== 
GOLF 

Woods stays one stroke up to win NEC Invitational 
his last eight tournaments. Craig Parry (69) and Nick 
Associated Press 

Sunday was also the ninth Price (71) tied for third at S­straight time he has had at under 275.
AKRON, Ohio 

least a share of the 54-hole By winning the World GolfTiger Woods hit anothP-r 
lead and gone on to win. Championship event for Hyderbump in the road on the back Just like his victory in the Cup and Presidents Cup play­
nine. He also stared down 

PGA Championship two weeks ers, Woods became the firstanother challenge with a big ago. Woods appeared to be in player to surpass $4 million in
putt on the 17th hole. And 

total control until he pulled two one season. He now has playPd
when the NEC Invitational 

relatively short par putts on the three full seasons as a pro and came to a close Sunday, he had back nine and saw his lead has won 12 times on the PGA yet another victory. 
shrink to a stroke. Tour. Hr has earned more thanWoods revived his putter just And just like at Medinah, $8.9 million and already is 12thin time, holing a 20-foot birdie where Woods had to make an in career money.
putt on the 17th for a two­

8-foot par savP on the 17th to Sergio Garcia, the 19-year­stroke cushion. That proved to maintain a one-stroke lead. he old Spaniard who nearly madebe critical when he had to two­found a way to steady a sinking up a five-stroke deficit over the putt from 60 feet for bogey 011 ship. final seven holes in the PGAthe final hole to win for tlrn With Mickelson in at 271, Championship, took a quadru­fifth time this year. 
---
Woods had a 20-foot birdie putt ple-bogey 9 on the 16th and
It all added up to a 1-over 71 on No. l 7 that crept into the finished eight strokes back in a

and $1 million for his one­

hole on the last turn. causing tie for seventh. 
stroke victory over Ryder Cup him to pump his fist four times fired Couples, playing in the teammate Phil Mickelson. who and let out another sigh of final pairing with \Noods, had a put a scare into Woods with a relief. It didn"t last long, how­77.

65. 

ever. It was the first time in 15Woods finished at 10-under He had to lay up out of the worhlwide ,ictories that Woods
270 on a tough Firestone 

rough on the 464-yard closing led after the first round andCountry Club that played more hole, then caught his wedge fat went on to win. And it was the
than three strokes harder 

and left himself 60 feet to the second time this year that abecause of deceptive winds and 
bole. But he coaxed the par third-round 62 set up the victo­Tiger Woods shoots a 1-over 71 Sunday to win the NEC
treacherous pin placements. 

putt within 2 feet, a great putt rv. Invitational, one stroke ahead of Phil Mickelson.
At 23, he becomes the 

under the circumstances, and ·After his first five shots of the 
youngest player to win five 

tapped in for the victory. dav, Woods looked like he
times in one season since Jack knew he had a game. the green. chipped to 5 l'eet and
Mickelson, who has won a co~ld breeze to an~thcr 62 and
Nicklaus won the Sahara Mickelson birdied live of the missed the putt to take bogey.
World Series of Golf at beat the field even worse than
Invitational in 1963 at the first seven holes to get within He got it back with a 4-foot
Firestone and finished second his 12-stroke victory in the 
exact same age. He is also the three strokes of Woods, then birdie on No. 17, but then
twice, earned $510,000 for the Masters two years ago. It was
first player since Nick Price in closed within two with an 8-chopped up the 18th by hitting 
largest paycheck of his career. as simple as a wedge to 3 feet
1994 to win five times in a foot birdie putt on the 11th. into the rough, hitting a tree,
But he is running out of time to for birdie on No. 1, as powerful
year. While Mickelson stayed in the hitting more rough and having
extend his streak to seven as a 333-yard drive and a 9­
The victory, no matter how hunt with his brilliant short to make a nice up-and-down
years with at least one PGA iron uphill 164 yards on the
ugly it got down the stretch, game -a tough par save from for bogey.
Tour victorv. par-5 second that left him just
also lends credibility again to the bunker on No. 13 and a flop Woods certainly could have
He can biame this opportuni­off the green. 
comparisons to Nicklaus. shot out of the deep rough to 2 made it easier on himself. After 
ty on two bad shots -a layup But his 4-foot birdie putt
Woods has been utterly domi­feet on No. 15, two errant shots his first bogey in 27 holes, a
that found the rough on the bounced over a minefield of 
nant this summer, and appears cost him a chance. three-putt from 40 feet on No.
par-5 16th, and a drive into the spike marks and lipped out of
to be getting better with every His layup on the 625-yard 8, he made par saves from 6
rough on the closing hole. Both the cup for a frustrating par.
week. 16th went too far into the feet on the next two holes to
led to bogeys. Woods made up for that with a
Including his victory in rough and kept him from keep a cushion. His lead didn't
"I needed to put both balls in 10-foot birdie putt on the 200­
Germany against a strong field, attacking the pin, positioned unravel as quickly as did at
the fairway," Mickelson said. yard fifth hole, but by then he
Woods has won five times in behind the water. He went over Medinah, but it was close. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r-m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day. including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

FREE FOOD AND FROSTY BEV­ 3 bdrm duplex. remodeled. 503  ND football tix for sale.  Need 2 GAs to Michigan St.,  
ERAGES  Eddy. one mile from campus.  AM -232-2378  Arizona St., use. Navy. BC.  
NOTICES  In return for a place to crash for the ND-USC game.  Appliances. W/D. 273-8332.  FOR SALE  PM -288-2726  Oklahoma.  Call Bill at 4-4905.  
HEY FROSH  4 '94-95 alums seeking refuge. Call Bill @ 703-469-1008.  B&B  Beautiful brass bed, queen size,  I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME GAMES.2726551  I have two USC tickets for sale. Face Value. Must Sell  
...  LOOKING FOR THE MOST POPU­LAA CLUB SPORT ON CAMPUS?  FRATERNITIES.SORORITIES and  ND FOOTBALL & GRAD. 3 MILES TO N.D.  with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe frame. New, never used, still  BUYING and SELLING N D FOOT- Calli 4-3131 ask for Pete  
LOOK NO FURTHER THAN THE  STUDENT GROUPS: Earn $1000­ 287-4545  in plastic. $235.  BALL TICKETS.  
MEN'S CREW TEAM. (YES, THAT IS ROWING FOR THOSE OF YOU  2000 with easy CIS Fund Raiser event. No sales required.Fund  HOMES CLOSE TO CAMPUS  219-862-2082.  GREAT PRICES. CALL 289-8048  PERSONAL  
WESTERNERS ) LOOK FOR THE OARS ON ACTIVITY NIGHT AND SIGN UP!!!!  Raiser days are filling up.so call today. Contact Andrea 800-829-4 777  http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/ 232-2595  SILVER TREK RACING BIKE. 52cm frame. 12 spd. Excellent con­dition_$150/obo. Rich 289-3921.  I need one ticket for MSU. Name your price and call Bryan at 1-6900  Interested in learning classical. jazz, rock guitar? For only $50 a  
-­ Suppressed Dead Sea Scrolls Research:http://www.geocities.com: 80/Athens/Rhodes/7031/deadsea.h tml LOST & FOUND LOST MEN'S PRESCRIPTION GLASSES STOLEN OUT OF CAR NEAR O'NEILL HALL IN AUGUST.  Prof needs babysitter for two young girls. Flex. hrs. nights, weekends. Call 631-6268 or 289-6239. STUDENT OPENINGS 5-30 hrs./week. Flex. around classes. Scholarships avail. www.workforstudents.com/1 N 282-2357  THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths, $80­$115, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road Exit #107, 1­800-418-9487. 3·6 BDRM HOMES NEAR CAM­PUS. NOW OR 2000/2001 ROOMS ALSO 272-6306  Spring Break Specials!Bahamas Party Cruise 5 Days $279! Includes Meals' Awesome Beaches.Nightlife!Cancun & Jamaica 7 Nights From $399! Florida $129!springbreaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 NEW Prepaid Phone Cards!!!  +++++++++++++++++++++++++++ ++ N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS BUY/SELUTRADE ALL GAMES ALL LOCATIONS GREAT PRICES 271-9330 !!NO STUDENT TICKETS!! TICKETMART INC. www.ndtickets.com +++++++++++++++-t+++++++++++ +++  month (4 1 hr. lessons) you can study with South Bend's best. Call Brendan at 234-8159 or email at brendanbayliss@hotmail.com Interest rates can't hold readers' attention lnterst rates don't pertain to stu­dents. read on Nothing to report below, see sports  
REWARD! NO QUESTIONS ASKED  INTRAMURAL OFFICIALS  SWANSON PARK 3 BDRM.FAM RM.2726306  $20 ->669 minutes Call 243-9361, ask for Rob  No helpul source for story  
,.  683-1938.  Officials needed for Flag Football,  ND ALUM WILL PAY $100 APIECE  Students love reading about mart­ 
_,,...  LOST: Checkbook with a reddish brown cover on 8/24. Please call Rich at 289·3921. After school child care needed. Approx. 12 hours per week. Must have a car. Good pay! Call 631­9947, Lisa. WANTED  Baseball, & Fastpitch Softball. Earn good money, meet new people. & have fun! Experience helpful, but we will train everybody. Contact the RecSports office-Brandon Leimbach or Jeff Walker@ 631­6100. or stop by the office in the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center. FOR RENT  NICE HOUSE CLOSE TO ND GOOD AREA NORTH 2773097 Free Rent!!! Roommate left school...parents forcing me to find a roommate. 2 bedr. Turtle Creek Apt. Call Kelli 247-1704.  TICKETS FOR SALE 2 tickets to Purdue & Stanford. Call Chris 24B-449-2734 twistagogo@aol.com WANTED NOTRE DAME FOOT­BALL TICKETS 271-1526  FOR TENNESSEE TIX 2773097 For Sale : 2 GA tix. Kansas. MichState, Oklahoma, AZState, Navy. 287-1449 eve GA FOOTBALL TICKETS ALL HOME GAMES BEST PRICES 272-7233 ASK FOR AL  gages 'Rie: hope you're feeling better. You're a great partyer'Don·t let any repercussions get you down! Fight the power! One more song. one more song. I love that place! Emily and Ann rule turtle creek1!!!!!!!  
I need a responsible person to care for my 2 children ( 8&6). On  ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE  2 ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME Non-smokers &  SELL & euv GA FOOTBALL TICK­ETS  ND v Mich St. (Sept 18) football tix for sale  Deuce! Number Two!  
_,  M&W(4:30pm-2:00am) and every other Fri. & Sat. (4:30pm • 4 30am).Transp. provid· ed if needed $30/ night Michele 287-9744  HOME FOR ND-SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 243-0658  non-drinkers only First month FREE. Quiet & clean neighborhood close to campus. 273-1611  277-6619 WANTED: AM -232·2378 PM -288-2726  ND football lix.  634-2506 Mich tix avail. 287-7167  leave offer @  This one goes out to everyone in Siegfried 4B. You too, Harris. even if you're a Yankee fan. Once more into the breech..  

Monday, August 30, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
TENNIS 
Williams cruises by Davenport 
t\ssur.:iatccl Press 
NFW YOHK Venus Williams is ready to win tlw U.S. Opun. "I've, btwn rPady sincP tho lirsl t.imo." slw said. 
That was two years ago, wlwn slw 111,ult, hPr U.S. Op<•n dr•but and landPd sportac11larly in thn final -only to fall victim to the pnissun1 ,rnd Lim ne<1r pPrl'Pct play of top-rankPd Martina 11 ingis. 
"I gunss il wasn't tho right tinw," Williams said. 
Tim right limo might be now. 

Willia111s cast lwrs<di' as tlin favorit(' with a straight-s,•ls thrushing Saturday of rdgning 
U.S. Opt•n and Wimblmlon champion Li11dsay llavPnport in 
the l'inal or a tune-up tourna­m1mt in New llavon, Conn. "In thfl past, Lindsay over­
powernd me," the I9-yoar-old Williams said. "But l'vo gotten older and stronger. and I have belt!w tnchnique." 
That was <)vidon t in Williams' blistering groundstrokes. hugo sorvos and quickor court coV(lt­ago, all too much for the 23­yrar-old Dav1rnport to hanrlle. 
"VHnus is going to be tough to beat." Davenport said or Williams' chances at the Oprn. "Sho's athlntic and nxtnmrnly fast. Those are some great assets to havn." 
Williams, who has Wl>ll five titles this yuar, will 1rnler tlw Op<'ll at a ntn•er-lwst No. :{ ranking. 
Though there will be four for­mer U.S. Open champions -Ilingis, Davenport,· Monica Selns and Arantxa Sanchez­Vicario -in the field when play starts Monday, Williams now knows she has the game and disposition to beat them all. Just as important, her rivals know it. too. 
Williams, who routed Selcs boforn taking on Davenport in Now Haven, has overcome her tendency to rush on the court and succumb to a flurry of errors. She doesn't let the pres­sure of big matches get to her as much anymorri. She has broadened her arsenal to the point where she can win with long rallies as confidently as she win with her serve. 
WELCOME BACK STUDENTS!!! 
CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS 
272-1441 

-

Rosie the riveter 
... 

Monday-Friday, August 30-September 3 
Dr. Evil 

Notre Dame RooID-
Time Square Kiss 

2nd Floor ,~ LAFORTUNE mwbytes~com
It's my Web.

STUDENT CENTER 
9:30a1n-6:00p1n Sponsored by LaF ortune Student Center 
Photos 


-
*Books delivered in no more than three business days or your shipping is refunded. Some restrictions apply. See www.varsitybooks.com for details. Monday, August 30, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Red Sox sweep Angels, move ahead in AL wild card 
As,odate<I f>ress 
BOSTON 

Pal Happ poslnd anothf\l" imp1·1)ssivo pilching pnrf'or­1111u1c11 and Trot NiX()fl had thrP1i hit.s and scortid thrcic 
runs as the Boston Hed Sox heal Urn Anaheim Ang<)ls 7-4 Sunday for a tlnnn-game 
sweep. 

Boston. which cnterod the day tied with Oakland for the Al wild-card lead, won for the fifth lime iu six games. The Hed 
Sox wimt 9-1 against the Angels this season, winning all six at Ponway Park. 
Happ (6-5) allowed one run and six hits in six innings. Bo is 4-0 with a :LO? ERA in seven starts since being reinserted into the rotation .l uly 28. 
INTERRACE 
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER1, 1999 CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 5:30 PM 

DINNER PROVIDED 
PLEASE R.S.V.P. 631-6841 
Interested in joining a Club but don't know where to get started? 
Saint Mary's College ti(c~irlr1YJllflllE~ l~Jl(GIHIT ll~~~ Monday, August 30 6:00 -8:00 PM Angela Athletic Facility 
BE THERE!!! 
Jim Edmonds went 4-for-4. 
including two doubles for the 
Angels. Mo Vaughn went 2-for­
5 with a double and a two-run 
single in the ninth, finishing the 
year 3-for-20 against his for­
mer team. 
Derek Lowe struck out Tim 
Salmon, the only batter he 
faced, for his ninth save. 
Unlike the first two games of' 
the series, when the Rfld Sox 
pulled out wins in their last at­
bat. they didn't need any late­
inning heroics. 
With the score tied at 1, Boston broke through with three runs against. Tim Belclrnr (5-8) iu tho fifth. 
Darren Lewis hit a bases­loaded, two-run single and Brian Daubach broke a 3-for­27 slump with an HBI single to make it 4-1. 
The Hcd Sox increased it to 7-1 in tlrn sixth. Donnie Sadler and Scott Hattcbcrg had HBI singles and .lose Off'erman added a sacrilico fly. 
Matt Walbeck's HBI single gave Anaheim a 1-0 lead in the second. Nixon's sacrifice fly tied it in the third. 
Astros 10, Marlins 4 
Wild Mike Hampton tied teammate Jose Lima with his NL-leading 17th victory and rookies Daryle Ward and Lance Berkman homered on consecu­tive pitches as the Houston Astros beat Florida 10-4 Sunday. 
Ward's three-run homer and Bm·kman's solo shot erased the Marlins' 2-1 lead in the sixth inning. 
Craig Biggio hit a leadofl' homer in the first for the Astros and broke his own team record with his 52nd double. Ken Caminiti added a three­run homer in the seventh. 
Hampton (17-3) overcame a career high-tying seven walks and improved to 8-0 in his Last 11 starts. He allowed three earned runs in 7 1-3 innings. 

Biggio led off the Astros sixth 
with a single and Jeff Bagwell 
walked. With two outs, Alex 
Fernandez gave up the conscc­
u ti ve homers by Ward and 
Berkman into the right-field 
seats. 
Biggio doubled in tlw seventh and Bagwell was intentionally walked before Caminiti home­red off Raf'acl M(~dina for an 8­:J lead. Tony Eusebio hit an HBI · double later in the inning off Vic Darensbourg. 
Luis Castillo ext<mded his hit­
ting strnak to 18 games for the 
Marlins. lie singlml in tlrn lirst 
and scon~d on Bruco Av1rn's 
groundout. 
Castillo doubled home a rnn in tlw sixth and drnw a bases­load1id walk in the eighth from Jay Powell. 
Biggio hit his 12th homo run on Fernandez's f'irst pitch of the game. An orror by Berkman in right linlcl gavn the Marlins an unearned run in the fourth for a 2-1 lead. 
White Sox 7, Athletics 2 
Carlos Lee drovr, in four runs and James Baldwin won his fifth straight decision Sunday as the Chicago Whitn Sox final­ly solved Kevin Appier and beat the Oakland Athletics 7-2. 
The loss knocked Oakland one game behind Boston in the AL wild-card hunt after the Hod Sox beat .-\naheim 7-4 Sunday. 
Baldwin (9-11) allowml sovcn hits and two runs in six innings with three walks and seven strikeouts. 
Appier entered tlw game 4-0 against the White Sox this sea­son, including three victories before he was traded by Kansas City on July 31, but was hurt by his own wildness and two infield hits bv the White Sox. lie allowed ei"ght hits and seven runs with six walks in four-plus innings. 
WantA Challenge? 
OFFICER TRAINING SCHOOL 
Start your career off on the right foot by enrolling in the Air Force Officer Training School. There you will become a comm1ss1oned officer in just 12 weeks. From the start you'll enjoy great pay, complete medical and dental care, 30 days of vacation each year, 
plus the opportunity to travel and 
AIM HIGH see the world. To discover how high AIR . a career in the Air Force can take -lalCE you, call 1-800-423-USAF. or visit our website at www.airforce.com 
www.airforce.com 

QUICK CAB 
233-6000 
r------, 

-ND to Michiana Regional Airport1 $2 OO 
One Person $8 
More than 1, $5 e~ch 

-ND to Entertainment Area One Person $5 
-Waiting Time 10-15 Minutes 
We Appreciate Your Business Welcome Home! 
I • OFF : EACH TRIP 
IQUICK CAB I 233-6000 
I :I I•....
~ 
I I 
L------.J 
-
._ 



-
To all the Saint Mary's College, Holy Cross 
College and University of Notre Dan1e 

Monday, August 30, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
Hurricanes surprise Buckeyes 
li 1\S'I' HUTIIEHFOIH>, N . .I. 
Tlw Miami Ilurrintncs wait-1•d l'o11 r years to gt)t hack in t.lw national championship racP. 
( ;u,iss what.'! Tlrny'ni back. Kl\1111y Kt>lly throw !'or ono 
lo11l'11dow11. ran for another and convnrtcd a pair of' two­point c1111VPl'Sions in lnading: No. 12 Miumi to ,t 2'.3-12 vit:to­ry over No. (J Ohio Statn in tlw I-ZidrnffClassic on Sunday. 
1\lfhrnrgh tlrn gamn was slop­py at 1 imP;;, with nu1111irous turnovers and p1inaltins, Knlly rnad1' his f'irsl start a mPmo­rahlti 01w. Tlw (i-foot-1, l 'J5­pourHl<•r l'rom Tampa ovPr­<:aml' two fumbles and two int••n·t\plions and linisluicl l 7­of'-25 for 245 yards. 
In a '.l:0(, span lat1i in tlw !'irsl hnlf, K<•lly ran snv«rn yards on a nifty hooting to pu1 Miami alrnad for good, and ltwn lhrPw a <,7-yard toud1­clow11 1iass to Santana Moss with eighL snconds Jnl't in llrn secon<l quart11r lo givl' tbe llurricarrns a 23-IJ halftimn lead. 
Af'Lnr llrn l'irst toud1clown, Kelly lhrnw for u two-point convnrsion and aftor the sec• ond !w ran for another two­pointer as Miami ermrnd Ohio Statn'f; 1)-7 firsL-quartc•r lead. 
In tho sncnnd half, the Bucknyes managnd only a third•quarter 24-yar<l field goal by Stull;, .. Miami nm 7:39 off llrn clock to start th.n fourth quartm·, moving 7') yards on 1(i plays before t\ndy Crosland missed a 2(i-yard lfold goal, his sncond miss of the ganrn. Miami's l.nonar<l Myers then intPrcnptnd a pass with 6:24 left, and tlrn Giants Stadium crowd of' ,:,,0:-17 krrnw llrn game was ovc'r. 
Ohio Stal<\ managed only U0 tot.al yards, whiln Miami gairwcl 398. .lames Jackson led Miami with 8') yards on 13 carri1is. Michael Wilny, who had a (,').yard run in the first quarwr. linishnd with 72 yards on nirw carri<!S. 

When Miami took ovm after linehacker Dan Morgan's rum­ble rncovery at Urn Miami 41, Kelly put tht! ball or1 his hip, ran a bootleg right and with nobody near him, threw a 40­yarcl completion to wide-open fullback Mondriel Fulcher, who was dragged down at the Buckr.yes' 9. After a U-yard complotion to Bubba Pranks, Kelly faked two handoffs, ran a bootleg IPrt and raced untouched into tho end zone to put Miami ahead to stay with 
4: 13 Ir.ft. 
Miami wasn't linishcd. t\l'lcr forcing Ohio Statn to punt, tlrn llurricanns took over at their own 22 and four plays later, Knllv connected with Moss on llrn ·b7-yard touchdown pass wilh eight seconds left in the half. Moss, who also had a 50­yard reception in the first quartnr, took two st.cps back to cal.ch the ball and then cut to the middle of the field. leaving cornerback Nate Clements on tho ground and beating free safoty Gary lforry into the end zonn. 
.. 
NFL 

Officer arrests Jones for fleeing ticket 
Associated Press 
IIIGIILAND PAHK, 'foxas 
Dallas Cowboys owner .Jerry .Jones was arrnsted Sunday after he drove away with his family before a police officnr had finished writing a spnnding ticket. 
Jones said late Sunday the arrest was a misunderstanding. Ile said he and his family wero trying to get to church in time for the christening of his grandson. 
Jones was in one vehicle and his family was in a Suburban around HU0 u.m. on tlrnir way to church services. Jon<~s• employees drove both vehicles. 
Highland Park Police Chief Darrell Fant said an officer pulled over the Suburban for going 45 mph in a :;o mph zone. 
The car carrying Jones was not stoppnd, but his drivr.r also do this as fast as I can.' lie made sonrn remark and then did not follow tho ordnr of tlrn officer and took the vehicle anyway," Fant told WF/\A-TV. 

The Cowboys rnlcased a statement during thnir exhibi­tion game Sunday night with the Denver Broncos. 
"I am sorry this has become an issue," Jonns said. "This mattcir ocr,urrnd becausn of' my very sincere effort to get all of my family to the christening ol' our grandson." 
Jones said Im undorstood the 
-

matter was being handl<~cl by the police oflicer, the Suburban driver and the driver of his car, whom he said he had askod to stay behind at the scnnn of' the citation. 
Officials said the of'ficcr radioed alrnad and another police vehicln tried to pull Jones over, hut Im did not stop. 
With tlrn police vehicle fol­lowing at a slow pace, .Jorrns 
Work in the Observer Ad Department 
We are looking for help proofing our ads between 4 pm and 6 pm on Tuesdays and Thursdays. 
Also looking for any Sophomores/Juniors interested in Internet Advertising. 
Come by 024 South Dining Hall Or call Bryan at 1-6900 
pulled over. .Jonr.s went to where an officer was question­ing the driver of the other car, in which .Jones' mother, moth­er-in-law and several other family members were riding. 
"lie said he was in a rush and asked if he could go ahead and take the family membnrs on to church. The officer said to him, 'I'll just be a minute. I'll proceeded to tho Highland Park United Mnthodist Church on the Southnrn Methodist University campus, about a mile from whnrn the traffic stop took placn. 

"It was after tlrn Suburban was unloaded that I lrncame aware of a policn ol'licer who had pullnd behind mn while 1 was unloading," Jones said. 
STUDENT GROUP AFS PASSWORDS 
Student groups which renewed their exisiting AFS space ( or applied for new AFS space) can pick up their PASSWORDS in the Student Activities Office onone ofthe following days: 
Monday, August 30  1 PM-4PM  
Tuesday, August 31  1 PM-4PM  
Wednesday,Septl  1 PM-4 PM  

StudentActivitiesOffice 315 LaF ortune Student Center 

Please be aware that the only person who can pick up the password is the person listed on the application. Ifyou have any questions, please call 631-7309. 
Notre Dame Rowing Club 
• Nationwide Travel •Men medaled at prestigious regattas in 

• Intercollegiate Competition 
south and east 
• 
Meet new people 



• Meet hundreds of new recruits on the women's team 
Informational Meeting on Thursday, September 2 107 Hesburgh Library at 8:00 PM 

Questions? Ed (Pres.) X2265 Sam (Capt.) 287-3006 *Look for us August 31st at Activities Night* 

page 18 

The Observer . SPORTS Monday, August 30, 1999 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 

If 
Thompson, Casey lead Nittany Lion offense 
Associated Press 
STATE COLLEGE, Pa. 
Watching all that tape of Arizona's quarterback duo must have gotten Joe Paterno thinking. 

faring a team that went 12-l last year, while splitting snaps between two quarterbacks, Paterno swiped his opponents' game plan. Kevin Thompson and Rashard Casey led an offense that rolled up 506 yards. burying Arizona in big plays on the way to a 41-7 vic­tory in the Pigskin Classic on -Saturday. Casey, a l'rustratfld backup all last season. was thrilled. Thompson -the top guy last season who admitted before th.is game that two-quarter­back systems can bA awkward -insisted he was comfortable. "lley, we won," he said with a wide smile. "That's all the comfort I need." Paterno, a devout one-quar­terback guy, will have to decide whether or not to stick with the new plan. He might be inclined to play both quarterbacks against the Akron Zips next Saturday and Pittsburgh Sept. 11. The test will be whether he does the same against powers Miami, Ohio State or Michigan. "I don't know what we're going to do the rest of the year," he said after the game. On Saturday, Casey was already making his case. "If I keep doing what I'm doing, I don't see why not," he said. For at least one week. it worked. Paterno sent Thompson out for the first drive. Three minutes later. he hit wideout Chafic Fields for a 37-yard touchdown. The next drive, out came Casey. Two plays later, Penn State had another TD on a 70­yard reverse to Fields. Two series later, Thompson found tailback Larry Johnson with a screen pass that went 60 yards for another touch­down. Seven minutes into the second quarter, the Lions led 24-0. Casey ended up playing seven series, going 6-for-10 for 107 
-yards. He added 23 yards rush­ing. Thompson went 5-for-8 for 135 yards with two TDs in five series. 
A versatile attack 
What's not to like? 
"We've got plenty of weapons," said Lions middle linebacker Brandon Short. 'They didn't surprise me at all. They move the ball against us. They go out there and move the ball every day in practice. Obviously, some days are bet­ter than others -I mean, we have a pretty good defense ourselves." 
The offense had to feel· good about unburdening themselves of their lousy reputation: a unit that would be lucky to score a few points and hope the fabu­lous Penn State dcionse could keep the score down. 
"This is great for our offense coming off last season and all 

.t the criticism we received," Fields said. "about how we nccued to make plays, how wn needed to do this. how the defonsr. carr,ied the team. I think this was a first step for us to show t\V()rybody that the guys on the offense can µlay thr. game, too." 
Paterno considered going to 

two QBs last season. In the end, he decided that Thompson made better reads and better understood the offense. 
He stuek with him despite fans' demands that he play Casey after Penn State scored 12 points in three games against Top 25 teams. Fans 
third-and-31 from its own 10­yard line, he dash<>d a few yards up the sideline and out of bounds, stopping the clock and giving Arizona more time to work with after the Penn State punt. A red-faced Paterno screamed at Casey as he came off the field. 
He had plenty more to be unhappy about. Big plays aside, Penn State's offense had problems. They didn't run the ball very consistently, Thompson thrnw an intercep­t.ion and the offensive line was penalized a numbnr of times for false starts. 
"We still have a lot of' work to go," Thompson said. "This is only the first game of' the year. 
complained that Patflrno had a 1r----~------~---~~~----~-~~-~~-~~----~, guy on the bench with a strong i 
Attention
arm and lots of speed. 
SENIORS
An imperfect rout 
After Casfly threw three 
1 
interested in the 
touchdowns in the spring game -Thompson threw three 
Rhodes, Marshall, and Mitchell Scholarships 
interceptions -the coach finally decided he <leservcd a shot at playing with the first 
Professor Walter F. Pratt, Jr. will have a final meeting to inform you of deadline dates and the team with the game on the 
1 
application process on line. "We didn't know how we were going to do it. Ile said 
Tuesday, August 31, 1999 
1
he'd go with the flow of the 
7:00 p.m.
gamt>," Casey said. "He did a 
129 DcBartolo
great job of splitting time." Paterno said he was pleased with Casey's performance. 
If you are unable to attend this meeting, a sheet of information may he obtained in I02-B
Except for one play. With 54 seconds left in the 
O'Shaughnessy Hall after the meeting date. first half and Penn State facing 

The Office of Special Instructional Projects and Activities is pleased to recognize the 1999 CANDAX McNair Summer Research Scholars from 
Clark Atlanta University, the SCHOLAR 
Ehatsham AHMAD Notre Dame Asenci6n CASTANEDA Notre Dame 
Christine COLLINS Damian DENSON Kashatriya EASON Eleda EDWARDS Constance FLANAGAN Cesar GARCIA Joyce GOINS Apryl HARGROVE Angelica HUTCHISON Amia JOHNSON JoAnne JOHNSON Khadijah KING Damien LEMON Latasha MARSHALL Brandi MATHEWS Natasha MAYS Tamara MURRY Jacquelynn ORR Patrick PARKS Ragan PAYTON Claudia QUINONEZ SuGinia SEARS Geoffrey SPROUSE Shannel SYKES Magdalena ZEPEDA 
Xavier Xavier Clark Atlanta Notre Dame Xavier Notre Dame Xavier Clark Atlanta Xavier Clark Atlanta Clark Atlanta Clark Atlanta Clark Atlanta Notre Dame Xavier Clark Atlanta Clark Atlanta Xavier Notre Dame Clark Atlanta Notre Dame Clark Atlanta Clark Atlanta Clark Atlanta Notre Dame 

m and Xavier University of Louisiana. RESEARCH DIRECTOR 
Prof. Subhash BASU Prof. Paula TKAC Prof. Mario BORELLI Prof. Elizabeth ELDON Prof. Dawn GONDOLI Prof. Alex HIMONAS Prof. David COLE Prof. Thomas NOWAK Prof. David SMITH Prof. Laura RADV ANSKY Prof. Gabriel RADV ANSKY Prof. Gabriel RADV ANSKY Prof. William HAMLETT Prof. Steven BOKER Prof. George HOWARD Prof. Glenn HENDLER Prof. Dawn GONOOLI Prof. David COLE Prof. David SMITH Prof. Subhash BASU Prof. Maureen HALLINAN Prof. Laura RADV ANSKY Prof. William BOGGESS Prof. David COLE Prof. Gabriel RADV ANSKY Prof. Dawn GONDOLI Prof. Randy RUTSKY 
Chemistry & Biochem. Finance Mathematics Biological Sciences Psychology Mathematics Psychology Chemistry & Biochem. Psychology Psychology Psychology Psychology Biological Sciences Psychology Psychology English Psychology Psychology Psychology Chemistry & Biochem. Sociology Psychology Chemistry & Biochem. Psychology Psychology Psychology Film, Comm. & Theatre 

OSIPA is also pleased to announce the continuation of funding of CANDAX McNair until September 30, 2004. 
Starting in the Fall 2000 the program will expand to include the four Universities of Clark Atlanta. Xavier, St. Mary's (San Antonio. TX) and St. Edward's (Austin. TX). 
CANDAX McNair is sponsored by the U.S. Department of Education. Federal funds: $ 201,557.00 (74.8 %) Non-federal funds:$ 67.727.00 (25.2 %) 

Monday, August 30, I999 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPECROSSWORD 

ACROSS 38 Half of dos 64 Kennedy and 1 love, Spanish­39 Hoopla Koppel 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS your relationship. 00000 
style ss Spooky 
DAY: John Landis, Jean-Claude l<illy, VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You s Santa race 66 Toledo's lake 
40 Triangular sails 

Peggy Lipton, R. Crumb, Robert need to concentrate on financial 
41 Air conditioner 

Parish, Wyomia Tyus, Elizabeth Ash­gains. You can do quite well if you 
track measure, for 67 Singer/ 
ley keep on top of your investments and 
10 Tom Jones's short songwriter 
Happy Birthday: You will have a stay tuned in to what's hot and
" _ a lady" Axton
42 Like roses 

no-nonsense approach to accomplish­what's not. 000 14 Merry-go-round­68 Ginger cookies 
ingJour objectives this year. Your LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Get or roller coaster 69 Split 
43 Reluctant 

qui response to any situation or cir­involved in classes that will help you 
44 Help a hoodlum 

cumstance that arises will keep you get back into shape. Try to promote
1s Fountain drinks 
ahead of the game and eager to push your beliefa and attitudes. You will
Clothesline 

16 Item in a garage 45 DOWN 
ahead in a positive and progressive grab the attention of some important
alternative 

11 Kind of 1oke , Places where 
direction. Your rewards will be people if you show your dedication.
47 "Can't Help 19 Ski lift Torah scrolls 
greater than anticipated. Your num­000
Lovin' Man" 

bers: 2, 7, 15, 23, 38, 41 SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Pro­
are kept20 Peaceful 48 It's catching 

ARIES (March 21-April 19): Get fessional advancement can be yours.
2 Coal site21 Easily defended 

out and be active. Your energetic Your innate ability to get the job done 
49 The "G" in EKG a Fragrance 

nature and ability to initiate projects on time will enable you to set a good
23 Wooden pin s1 Game with a 4 Falls back 
will add to your popularity Don't let example and receive recognition.
26 lady of La jackpot 
opposition from those enviou~ of 000
s CockeyedMancha SJ Nighttime view 

your talents hold you back. Go after SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21):
6 Oui's opposite 21 Father 

your dreams. 000 Your diplematic, outgoing nature will
56 Somewhat 1 Wedding vow 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): help you convince others to join in
JO Race unit so Skin cream 
Don't let your personal problems your fight for a worthwhile cause.
s Delicate use of32 Ring (in) ingredient 

interfere with your performance at Make sure you get their vows in writ­as Son of Seth 
words 

work. Take one step at a time and lis­ing, or all yoUI work will be in vain.
&1 Words of 9 Proposed 

ten to the advice given by others. You 00000
36 Headmistress consolation 
10 " 

can accomplish much i.f you set your CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19):
Cheerleaders" 

mind to it. 000 You need to spend time with those (1977 film) 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): It 'is having the same interests as you. 11 Old-fashioned 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
best to stick to physical rather than Your immediate family may not M E A 
Puzzle by Gregory E. Paul 
mental pursuits today. Travel may be understand your needs. Avoid con­on your agenda, but you shouldn't go frontations at home. Get out if at all
whoop 

IMM 12 And others: 31 Magician's word so Distributes, with 57 Roll call reply --,...t-,.,+-,,..+..,.+=-1 Abbr. 
too far. Love will find you wherever possible. 00
A l A 33 Computer ''our 58 Ireland 
yougo.0000 AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 13 Painful command 52 Arbor Day 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Experience new things by getting out
59 Hollow-

Lovers will cause upset if you let with unusual groups or traveling to them. Do your best to please, and exotic destinations. You need to 
1s Shoelace woe 34 Way to go honorees stemmed plant 
22 Verb preceders 53 Geometry, e.g.
as Dallas cager, for 62 Memorable 
refuse to take part in confrontations expand your awareness of different ..
-;:-1-;::-1-:-:111111r-:-:+-::+:::1 24 In seventh 54 time
short Grocery list item 
that could result in estrangement. Do cultures and ways of doing things.
heaven 

household chores and stay out of the 0000
37 38-Across, to us 55 Following that 63 Kind of cord 
line of fire. 00 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 201: Your
2s Sidelong pass 40 " Theme" 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your cool­intuition regarding joint ventures will
21 Benjamin ("Doctor 

ness will not go unnoticed. Your mate be right on. Don't hesitate to call situ­
Harrison was Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
Zhivago" tune) 
will be reluctant to approach you, but ations as you see them. Opposition
the last are available by touch-tone phone: 
if asked be prepared to make a deci­will only make you stronger. It's time 
44 One more sion one way or the other regarding for you to believe in yourself. 000
President to 1-900-420-5656 (95~ per minute). 
have one 

46 Writer Annual subscriptions are available for the 28 Terminator Hemingway best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
Birthday Baby: You have the p;:i.wer within vou to follow whatever 29 "I can't wait'" ,ia Goals or assists years: 1-888-7-ACROSS 
dreams rou have. You are well-organized, detail-oriented, and willing to tackle any challenge you face throughout your life. You are helpful, honest and a humanitarian. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialaslcom, astromate.com.) © 1999-Universaf Press Syndicare
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.Cl Box Q
THE OBSERVER 

Notre Dame, JN 46556 
Published Monday through Friday, The D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year
Observer is a vital source of' information on 
peoplo and events in thA Notrn Dame and Saint 0 Enclosed is $45 for one semester
Mary's Community. 
Name
Join tlrn morn than 13,000 readtirs who have Address ---------------------------­
l'ouncl The Obsnrvnr an indispensible link to the 
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The ObservPr in your home. 
FOURTH AND INCHES  
(  \-!El-LO  M¥  N~~E_  .5.vRc "11-16.V'!:E  ~ ,c:.&:  '-1110  
""  IS.  /U-1 CER  ~c r~e:NvS ---­ f'-\'{ Two ~T?­,­ 1'3i=~T  "' .  Wi; e,i::r l,i.,O/JG vis.EAT, £ur ~T:, M,;i,11-'E. \:.6Mi'  
r\-l  ' -­ .  
\  
/  
&I\'  

Fox TROT (DILBERT HAs MovEo To THE v1Ewro1NT PAGEs.) 

IF "!'OU "'31( ME, t>U&OUT DUTY ,s H1G'H\.Y U..l>ERRATED. 
• 
TOM KEELEY 

A DEPRAVED New WORLD JEFF BEAM 
IIH:-•t~E. /J.'{ C-E:sr Fll-18JOS ~f<..~t.i:,E ::C CA\J ,,tl:./'"\ ~ 
BILL AMEND 

GoLDlliWAIT, GET ollT HE!c!E ! 
YOU'RE BATTING CLEANUP! 
LET'S Go! 
__) 
-
beam. 1@nd.edu 




'Hawks become prey 
A 28-point second half. Saturday, led the Fighting Irish to a 48-13 rout ofthe Kansas Jayhawks. 

• 
PORTS 
Irish Insider 
WOMEN'S CREW 

Women's rowing team names new assistant 
Special to The Observer 
Pam Mork, former University of North Carolina women's assis­tant rowing coach at the University of North Carolina, was named Notre Dame's assis­Lant vvomen's rowing coach. 
She succeeds Kerry O'Keefe. who resigned to become the bead coach at Southern Methodist University. 
~ork's primary duties are coaching the novice squad and assisting head roach Martin Stone with recruiting. This is the second sea­son or Charles race once. 

In 1993. Mork participated in a developmental. camp with the Vesper Boat Club in Philadelphia, Pa., and the follow­ing year, trained with national coach Igor Grinko at Occoquan, Va., as a member of the Occoquan RoV1ring Association. 
After graduating from Wisconsin. she spent two years (19%-97) as a graduate assis­tant coach at Purdue University. She worked with the novice team and performed other day­to-d ay operations assuciatec.l with the pro­gram. She 

received her
women's var­"I'm uery pleased to have 

masters
sity rowing at Pam {Mork} join our stalf 

degree in
Notre Dame. 

She is going to be a agricultural
M o r k 

economics
helped start tremendous asset to our 

from Purdue
the women's 
program 

in '97. 
varsity row­

''I'm very
ing program 

Martin Stone pleased to
in Chapel Hill. 

have Pam join
N .C. During head coach 
the 1998 and 
1999 s,iasons. she coached the novice squad, assisted with recruiting and fund-raising and coordinated and managed all aspects of the program and team travel. In '98. the Tar I lee ls novice eight-boat finished undefeated in dual meel competition. 
Mork received her bachelors degree in applied economics from the University of Wisconsin. A four-year letterwinner with its women's rowing team, she rowed stroke for the varsity eight-boat that ranked in the top five nationally throughout her career and won the Head of the 

our staff," 
Irish head coach Martin Stone said. "She is going to be a tremendous asset to our program because of her background and success in the sport as both a rower and coach. Coming from Wisconsin. Pam has a good understanding of the sport in the Midwest and she also has experience at the national team level. 
"Pam also understands what it takes when starting up a new program," he added. "She expe­rienced great success and was instrumental in the organization of the North Carolina rowing team in its first two seasons." 
GOLF 

... 
Weather fore es delays in Warren Golf Course opening 
. Spring rains, dry summer cause opening day delay 
Special to The Observer 

-
Due to extreme weather con­ditions during the spring and summer of 1999, the Warren Golf Course at Notrn Dame will now be opening for play in the spring of 2000, course general manager Brian Godfrey announced today. 
The combination of heavy spring rains and the extended druught during the summer have pushed the project hack a few months, from the previous­
Due to bad weather, golfers will wait until spring to play the sixth hole of the Warren Golf Course. 
ly intended late-fall opening. 

"The fairways and roughs were hit the hardest by tlrn poor weather conditions," said Godfrey. "But we are encour­aged by the progress of many areas of the course and espe­cially tlrn tees and greens. Th<~ overseeding of tho fairways began in mid-August and will continue for the next few weeks. If all goes well; the course will be in good shape by late spring, and will only get better with time." 
Tho Warren Golf Course club­house is now open to the pub­lic, and the golf shop is stocked with Notre Dame Goll' mer­chandise for sale. Thfl snack shop, which is located in tho clubhouse, is also open for lunch throughout the week. 
1! 
~ 
· at Michigan at Northwestern vs. North Carolina Saturday, 2:30 p.m. Wednesday, 4 p.m. Friday, 7:30 p.rn . 
SPORTS ... ~ li, 
-
ATA 
Volleyball Cross Country Volleyball 
vs. Valparaiso at Valparaiso Invitational St ~ at Elmhurst College 
GLANCE f!J 
Wednesday, 7 p.m. September 11, 10 a.m. Wednesday, 7 p.m. 



