40 days, 40 nights 
Wnco111: P.tlltUIS!! 

Friday
¦ Lent is more than jusr giving up chocolate 
r 

-check our rhe history behind rhe holiday. 
The Observer wishes all the junior parents a safe and 

FEBRUARY 19,
wonderful weekend on campus. Check page 2 to see if 
the wearher will cooperate.

Scene• 12-13 
1999 
THE 




The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 93 WWW. ND.EDU/~OBSERVER 

M.D • MADNESS 
As the April 17 test date approaches) pre-med students have t1vo more months to review eight semesters ofwork for the MCAT. 
By ANNE MARIE MATTINGLY A...,..,i,ra1Jt N<.·ws Fdimr 
For miarly IXO Notn\ llanw studrnls, lhe day of 
n•doning is approaching. 
All1\r cou ntliiss c·lassns in biology, dwmistry and physics, llw nwdical-sclwol hopnl'uls havn lwo mon· months lo mastPr PVPrything from amino acids Lo aromaticity Lo angular 111011Hmlu111 -all for 0111' tPst that afl«,cts wlwUwr tlwy nvnr l'llrtl 1111' ti!IP "\1.1 l .•• 
"I don't think 1woplP arP rnady to kill llrnm­sl'lvr•s oVl'r il yPL, !Jut w1•rn all apprnlwnsivn." said junior Kall• Howland. "Y1111 can do OK on the Si\Ts and you ·rn still going Lo collegn. If you don't do wr•II 011 tlw MC:ATs. you're probably not going Lo 11wd srhool. Tlwrn is a lot of prnssurn to do WPII." 
1\s Ihe April 17 Mr,dirnl C:ollq{n Admission Tnst (MC:AT) approaches, most students go lrnyond IhPir Notn• Danw classes for tnst-prnparntion. Tl11• University focusns 011 providing a strong, comprnlwnsivn pm-professional curriculum, hut it cl111is not nffor any lhrmal MCAT preparation, accordin){ to assistant /\rts and Lettnrs dnan KimlH'rly Hint-llamillon. 
"W11 1!on't have an MCAT rnvinw course," said l;lint-1 lamilton, also tlw advisor !'or prn-profos­sional studPnts. "fWn just! toll them what lo r•xpnd ancl givl' tlrnm good cours<is." 
Hint-1 lamilton notml that students who do wnll in tlw ('Orn classPs or physics. biology and gennral and organir. clmmislry a.rn wnll-prnparPd for tlrn nxam. 
Howland agrnr•d that knowing tlrn matnrial well 
sec MCAT/ page 4 




New Eck Center opens with Hammes Bookstore 
Observer Staff Report 


MIAA 
•

rev1e-ws 
SMC 

By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
News Wrircr 
Officials from the Michigan Interscholastic Athletic Association (MIAA) visited thn Saint Mary's athletic dnpart­mcnt this week to reevaluate tlrn Co 11 egn ·s con fnre nee mmnbership. 
The MIAA will vote April l on whether to change\ the Collngn's membership status from provisional to f'ull-timn. Bnf'orn joining thn MIAA two ynars ago, Saint Mary's was indnpm1don t. 
Evaluators looked for insti­tutional compatibility during tlrnir visit. according to .lini Cook, assistant director of' /\thlet.ics and H1\crnalion. 
"Tlrny were looking to make sure that [Saint Mary'sl nrnnts 
The new Ilammcs Notre Dame Bookstore will open its doors to the Notre Dame community today, with more than twice the noor space and five times as many titles as the old facility on South Quad. 
Tho storn will carry a mix of academic and popular books, an expandod sportswear section and many of the same departments included in the old building. For a modern, trendy twist, the ston\ also boasts a coffee bar, gas fireplace and Internet and sortwaro demonstration stations. 
Thcrn will also be restrooms, fitting rooms and elevators, nonP. of' which were prnsont in the old building. Hours will be expand­nrl significantly -the store will be op1m from 9 a.m. until 10 p.rn. Monday through Saturday and 11 a..m. until 10 p.m. Sundav. 
Thfl ·bookstore will carry morn than 75,000 titles, up from l :1,000 available in the old f"acility. Floor space will more than doul.Jle, increasing from 28,000 square-feet to 65,000. 
Tho bnokstorn, located on Notre Dame Avenue next to the Morris Inn, is part of the rocently completed $21.5 million two­bu iId i ng Eck Centrr, which also houses I.Im new Alumni 
see ECK/ page 4 see M!AA / page 6 




5 Day South Bend Forecast 

AccuWeather" forecast for daytime comlitJons and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Friday, Feb. 19. 
Friday 

~ Saturday ~ Sunday ~ Monday 
Cl 1999 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Pressure:

Tuesday !~a ~, 
iaa 
......!:,•;·; ~:·.;:=· ® © D . c::J D C2l . 
High Low Showers Rain T-storms Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via Associated Press 

Arlington His. 37 28 Columbus 36 25 Indianapolis 40 26 Atlanta 50 44 Dallas 47 35 Los Angeles 70 48 Baltimore 48 31 Denver 46 34 Miami 74 54
q,Q.Qq~q (f ~ u 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Baton Rouge 60 44 Elyria 41 27 New Orleans 66 48 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNel 

Chicago 34 22 Honolulu 85 66 New York 35 18 


Teletubby 

Turtnoil 
Last week, Hev. Jerry Falwell alleged that 
Tinky Winky, the purple TPletubby from thP 
PBS children's program, was gay. Falwell 
alleged that the children's show character 
promotnd homos0xuali--------­
ty and expressed his Dustin Ferell 
outrage publicly amid Assisram Viewopinr 
constant critirism. Editor 
lie based his accusa­
tions on several factors, including Tinky 
Winky's purplo color, thP-triangle on his 
head {supposedly a gay pride triangle) and 
his purse, which the creators of the show 
rail a "magic bag." 
I decided I'd take a closer look at the 
acr,usation to see if it deserved any serious 
consideration and to judge wlwther or not 
the program had a negative influence on its 
young viewPrs. AdmittAdly, I was skeptical 
~ the purple color 1111d triangl<i are rnen,ly 
coincidPntal in the eyes of most pPople. And 
the so-called purse? lTl give the creators 
Lhe benel1t of the doubt that it really is a 
magic bag. Thus far. I hadn't been con­
vinced that any typo of conspiracy existed. I 
needed to investigate the matter further. 
Mv first course of action found me view­
ing acopy of the program. After several 
minutes of watching the creatures happily 
about. the derper contPxtual meaning 
became crystal clear. In one of the first 
scenes, the four Teletubbies went frolicking 
out in the hills when suddenly they camr 
upon a building, one which dubiously 
resembled an administrative building. They 
all sat down and began chanting, nach in 
his or her own language. 
These developments confused me. but as 
of' yet, I had no hard evidence lo support 
Rev. FalwplJ's claims. Luckily, using a 
Teletubby Translation Manual provided by 
the Christian Coalition, I was able to inter­
pret their statements, and l was shocked at 
the findings. 
One Telctuhbv, which to most casual 
obsPrvers kept irnying "quickly. quickly," 
was actually stating, 'Tm straight but not 
narrow!" Upon hearing this, Tinky Winky 
replied. "Tinky Winky," meaning 'Tm not 
obsessed with homosexuality, I'm obsessed 
with justice!" Another Teletubby, Dipsy, 
kept shouting something about sweatshops. 
And in front of' the all of them, Laa Laa 
exclaimed, "La-la-la-la-la," which roughly 
translates to, "What if vou fasted for three 
days and no one cared?" 
I'm going to stop at this point, as I'm sure 
your outrage nquals that of most concerned 
citizens. It has suddenly dawnPd on me that 
various Ir.ft-wing movements, under the veil 
of a seemingly harmless television pro­
gram, have infiltrated the living rooms of 
children worldwide to promote their iniqui­
ties as acceptable. furthermore, their 
morally corrupt actions serve only to 
ensure their impending doom come 
Judgment Day. 
This assault on our culture will not be tol­
eratnd. Hev. Falwell, and distinguished 
members of the Moral Majority, I praise 
you for bringing awareness to this grave 
situation. Remember that political unrest 
stabilizes society -yeah! Please keep up 
the good work of' maintaini11g America's 
solid moral fiber and heritage, and weeding 
out these conspirators. 
Dustin Ferrell can be reached at ferrell.3 @nd.edu 

The uiews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

News Scene Heather Cocks Mark DeBoy Michelle Krupa 
Graphics 
Kate Steer 
Joe Mueller 
Sports 
Production 
Mike Connolly Noah Amstadter 


Viewpoint 
Lab Tech 
Colleen Gaughen 
Monica Garza 
The Ohserver (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday 

excepr during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe As.,ociared Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 



utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Computers to replace pencil and paper GRE 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 
StudPnts who work hetter with a pencil than a mouse will have their last opportunity to take the paper and pencil version of the Graduate Record Exam (GRE) on April 10. 
The paper and pencil test is being replac<'d by the computer adaptive test (CAT) that is administered year­round. The CAT allows students to schodule their GTIE only a fow days in advance, take the exam privately, and almost immediately learn their scores. 
The CAT's adaptive format makes it fairly different from the paper ver­sion. 
Test-takers answer only one ques­tion at a time and arc subsequently givlin questions on different !(wels of difficulty bascct on whether they answered correctly. Each question is presented only once and students may not rf'turn to any questions onci> 

When the exam is complete the computer gives a score based on the student's answers and the difficulty of the question. 
Diane Dickerson, a senior maJoring in nursing, took the CAT and said she is glad she chose it instead of the tra­ditional paper format. 
¦ P.••·· P!('t: Piuptff'~'TY·
,•..J'\,L,i:, .,J111.,r ,;:iL 

Enrollment drops at black colleges 
DURHAM, N.C. 
In the early 1990s, black high school students were drawn to historically black colleges and universities in great num­bers. Nine years later, however, many black students am opting to forego that experience. All five of the historically black colleges and universities in the University of North Carolina school systP-m have witnessP-d declining enroll­ments and Scholastic Aptitude Test scores in the past few years. Lagging enrollment is not exdusive to 1\orth Carolina HBCUs bui reflects a broad<~r pattern, said Gary Barnes. U. North Carolina's vice president for program a!>sessment. "I would say we're looking at a national trend," Barnes said. One reason for the declin<' may simply be competition. "Minority students have greater choices than they did ten years ago," said Angela Terry, vice chancellor for student affairs at "Jorth Carolina Central Univorsity. "Tho markets for black studPnts are broadening." 
¦ NmnttwrsrrnN UflHVF.Bsnv 
Prof: Tenure denied on principle 
EVANSTON.Ill. 
Cecelia Lynch is an international relations scholar, so she reflects on hPr upcoming departure from Northwestern in political terms. 'Tm going because I prefer democracy to absolutist monarchy," Lynch said. Lynch, a political science assistant professor, said she was denied tenurn last year by University president Henry Bienen because he doesn't agree with her views on national security -one of Bienen's areas of interest. Lynch's coll()agues wern surprised by the deci­sion, and the University of California at Irvine won a three­school competition to snag her. "President Biencn reprfl­sents, to the degree that he crosses into my field, a fairly narrow viewpoint on national security," Lynch said. "My approach challenges certain understandings of the field. He has acknowledged on more than one occasion that his knnwlrdgc of the throretical d()velopmP-nts of the field is at least a decade out of date." 

"I don't think that looking over your test really h0,lps hecause it consumes too much time, and I've always been told that it is better to go with your first instinct," she said. "Tim only complaint about the computnrs that I have is that it seemed like it took for­ever and the screen kind of' mad<~ my eyes hurt." 
Dickerso11 purchased a computer­ized study package that she said sub­stantially hfllped her to prepare for the CAT exam. 
The scores of both test versions are supposedly comparable, but it really depends on the test-taker, said Tren1 Anderson, Kaplan's exflcutive director for the graduatfl and professional center in Nnw York. 
"SincP ii. is not possible to skip questions or rnl'!Pct and go back to change answers, students cannot employ their usual test-taking strate­gies," he said. 


Stroke research uses cancer cells 
PITTSBUHGII, Penn. 

U. Pittsburgh Medical Center researchers are treating stroke victims by giving them cancer. The researchers trans­planted brain cells into stroke victims last summer, and recently, three of' the first seven patients reported improve­ment in their symptoms. This is the first cell transplant study for people who have su!Tered brain damag<\ l'rom a stroke ­the third-leading cause of death and the most common cause of adult disability in the Unit1~d States. The transplant­ed 1rnrve cells arc manufactured by Layton BiosciPncc, Inc., in California. They come from a cancer called a teratocarci­noma. These tumors consist of cells that havn 110 spP-cilic assignment but have the potc,ntial to bcconrn various types of cells. Researchers add a chemical called retinoic acid lo the CAils, which r,ausP-s them to behave like human neurons. or Lrain cells. In animal studies, these transplanted cells have not reverted to tumors for up to a year. 
¦ UNIVERSITY OF !OWli. Regents support gambling revenue use 
IOWA CITY, Iowa 

The Iowa statfl Board of Hegcnts says it is willing to up the ante on a plan by Go\'. Tom Vilsack to repair many Ul facilities. Vilsack wants to allocate an additional $60 mil­lion for infrastructurn improvements at Iowa's thrnc regents institutions by dipping into gambling rev<rnuP. Funding for the three schools could increase from $'! B.7 million to $236.3 million under the plan. The proposed increase was discussed at Wednesday's regents meeting at the lJnion. While the rngents approved of Orn measurn, they also predicted it would be hotly contested in Des Moines during the legislative session. Vilsack proposed placing all state gambling revrmuc! into a "Rebuild Iowa Distribution Account." Under current law, gambling rev­enue is divided between the lnfrastructurn Fund and the Genrral Fund, which pays for faculty salarins and other institutional expenses. 
Friday, February 19, 1999 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Chemists highlight career choices 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
N1,:w:, WritlT 
Carn1•r opport.unities for wom1•n in dwmical industrir.s will I)(• disc11ss11d this wenk1\nd at Saint M.1ry's fourth annual Wonwn Clwmisls Symposium. 
"l'hi• advantagn or llw sympo­s i u 111 is to nducaln scit'ni:n majors ahout oppnrlunilies avnilable posl-Sainl Mary's," said H<'borah McCarthy. assis­tarH prnfossor of clmmislry and phys.ics. 
Spcukin~ with prnfossionnls in th!' C'.lwmistry !fold will lw a major advanlagP during lhP \\tWkPnd. said McCa.nhy. Saint Mary's gradual.Os will he avail­ahlP tl1r1111glrn11L llw presPnta­Lions to answnr q unsLions and disr.uss availablP post-graduate 
opporlunitiPs. 
"This is all about careers,·• McCarthy said. "We want t.hP-se students to bo abln to discover llinir canwr a11rJ mako il hap­pon." 
llighlights of' the wfiekP.1H.l's evcrnts will includo a koynoto addross l'rom Mary Singll'ton, a 22-ymtr mnployeri or Lawrence Livermore National Laboratories. whore she served 
a.s l.he deputy plutonium facilities manager. Singleton will discuss her experience a.s a worker in govornnrnnl laboratories and opportuniffos available for women scicntbts in the chmn­istry fiold. 
J11nior r.hPmistry major Cathcrirw Goolsby will kick off 

the WC'ckm1(f at noon today with a presentation detailing research silo completed in the Ohio State University molecular biology dcpar1.mcn1. this past summer. The prcstmtation will t.akP. place in room 105 in the Science Center. 
Senior projcr.t pniscntations will also take place throughout tho weekend. Science majors can rc•c<~ivfl prof'essional cri­tiques of their resumes and par­ticipate in mock interviews to prPparc themsr,lves for the joh application procm;s, 
Michelle Przop, '97, an Allied Signal Laboratory f'mployee, and Paulette Raczkowski. '97, a mid­dle school scionr.e instructor. will be two of the graduates available for discussion. 

John M. Marshall's, Inc. 
Established 1965 

Diamonds Engagement Rings & Wedding Bands 18lkarat YeUow Gold & Platinum. 
Thinking of purchasing a dian1ond? Choose wisely with information in our complimentary book, Diamonds Magnified, 186 pages, 2nd edition, hardbound. 
John M. Marshall 
Jeweler/ Gemologist/ Mineralogist 

Telephone: 287-1427 Monday -Friday, l0a.m. to 6p.m. KeyBank Building, Suite #101, South Bend, Indiana 46601 


Students help residents do taxes 
Byl<\"LBANOREWS 
.. N,e.Ys'.Wrtret · 
'·,· •'•• ' 
N1Hre Dame and Saint
~,uriJ a;e 'sponsoring a froe prograrn to help low,income ''S't>Iil'µ''Bend ahd Mishawaka 'families file their tax 
·.·• ret~rns:­1:''lfe. !ax Asslsu~nce 
•Prosr:~in,.·no.w in its 28th ye1.tn nnttches studcnts from Not(e:' .Da.)ne and Sn.Int Mary's with local residents \ivitlt 'anmrnl incomes of '$30,0JJO or less. The pro.• gra.:tnJ.1.egan Feb, 6, and will cortt:inJte filing state and 
local returns until April 15. 
~Tt).A large maJorHy 
lrlv'olv~d in thb program are 
a.ccounting inajors from 
Notre Dame and Saint 
Mary's/ said Rob Hokombci, 
a Notre Dame senior and 
publicity director for the pro­
gram. 
The students are divided 
among 10 South Bend-area 
loc.ation~. ln addition, there 
aro two Students Working at 
T.axes (SWAT) teams: one 
travels. to Plymouth, Ind., 
and the otMr visits to dis• 
ahfod, homebound people. 
Five major centers have 
certifi.ed public accountants 
on staff, and people with 
complicated tax problems 
are directed to those loca­
tions:: 
"It really was worth it. To see how grateful these peo­
pie were to get it out of the 
way in February instnad of 
waiting until April was unbe­
lievable," said Holcombe. 
"It's a great reeling. It's nicfl 
to be able to givn something 
back to the community." 
The program is advertised 
on radio, telflvision and 
through news releases. 
To prepare for the project, studtrnl. volunteers attendt)d a series of training sessions under accounting professor Ken Milani and chairp1m10n Ken Ballotta. Participants also must have completed Accounting 476 last semes­ter. 
The project is a two-credit. non-graded class for the vol­unteer students. 
Last year, over 2,000 returns were filed by the vol­untoers. 
Funding is provided by the Not.re Dame College of Business Adrninistralinn; supplies are donated by Urn IHS and the Indiana Department ol' Hevmrnn. 
The five ro,Ljor loc,1tions are the Northeast Neighborhood Center, the Mishawaka Public Library, the La Salle Branch of the St. Joseph Public Library, the Tutt Branch of the St. Joseph Public Library and tlrn Hansel Neighborhood Center. 
Tlrn program will not oper­ate March 5-14 lrncausn of' spring break. 

Gc;t to Know Your Profs 
Here is your opportunity to meet and eat with your professors and deans Join them in the Hospitality Room Located in South Dining Hall \1on ,<i Wed: 12:30-1:30 Tues & Thur 12:15-1:15 
Monday, Feb. 22 American Studies Psychology Anthropology 
Tuesday, Feb. 23 Economics Government & Int'l Studies East Asian Language & Litera .ure German & Russian Languages & 
Literature 

Wednesday,Feb. 24 Accountancy Management & AdministratiY( 
Services 

Thursday, Feb. 25 Finance & Business Economic~ Marketing Wednesday.Mar. 17 Aerospace Engineering Mechanical Engineering Civil Engineering Geological Sciences Physics 
Thursd.ay, Mar. 18 Computer Science Computer Engineering Electrical Engineering Chemical Engineering 
Monday, Mar. 22 Chemistry Bioche1nistry 
Tuesday, Mar. 23 Mathematics Wednesday,Mar.24 Biological Sciences Pre-Professional Studies 

Communication & Theatre 
Thursday, Mar. 25 Art, Art History, & Design Music 
Monday, Mar. 29 English Sociology Medieval Studies Romance Languages & Literature 
Tuesday, Mar. 30 Philosophy Theology Classics Program of Liberal Studies 
ACADEMIC PRIDE SERIES 
CAPP 
Brought to you by Student Government Putting Students First 


page 4 



MCAT 
continued from page 1 
is absolutely essential to MCAT success. 
"ft's a weird kind of standard• ized Lest. It tests how you think, but it also tests tlat-out factual knowledge," she said. "There was one practice test with a sec­tion on torque. If you don't know what torque is, you're out of luck. There's live questions, and you can't an<;wer any oftlrnm." 
Father Joseph WaltHr, associ­ate prnfessor of chemistry and biochemistry and the chair of thB science pre-professional studies program, is responsible for providing information to stu­dents about the test anrl for exam registration. 
"[There arel two short essays,'' he said. "There are sec• tions on physical sciences, bio­logical sciences and reading compn~hension ... The qm~stions follow a paragraph of reading material with graphs and tables." 
Each of the three sections is graded on a scale of 15 points for a maximum scorn ol' 45: the hmrth parl. a writing sample, is scored separatP.ly with a letter grade. 
· Each student approaches the test in his or her own way, but in the absence of a University­sponsored prep course, many students choose to take a series of classes offered bv the Stanlev Kaplan program, according to Walter. 
"Some students take the Stanley Kaplan prep course, which runs about $1.000," he said. "Others study on their own using the complete prep for the MCAT by Williams and Wilkins ... or the Princeton Review of the American Association of Medical Colleges." 
Flint-Hamilton explained that the Cniversity's position on prep classes is a neutral one. 
"We don't endorse Kaplan. but we don't tell them not to take it," she explained. 
Junior psychology and pre­med major Rose Domingo is cur­rently enrolled in the course and thinks it is well worth the money. 
"It's expensive and it's a lot of work, but you have so many resources," ~he said. "I think it's a good investment." 
Domingo has been attending one three-hour Kaplan class per ,veek since November and said that as 1.he test nears. the course will also begin meeting on Saturdays. 
Each course requires hours of preparation and is followed by additional homework assign­ments. 
"You'll have a lesson. but before your lesson you have so many chapters to read, and there's topical tests afterwards to see what you learned," she said, adding that difficulty of the material is magnified by the sheer volume of information it covers. 
All in all, she described the course as geared more towards familiarizing students with the test than on improving their knowledge of the material. 
"You're supposed to know this. [The test is askin){J, 'Can you understand what these questions are trying to ask you, and can you do it quickly and acrurat~ly?"' she said. "They !Kaplan! don't teach it to you ... It's what you should havA heen learning all along and you've hopefully retained." 
Domingo also cited fPcdhack as one of the course's greatest advantages. 
"You can see what you're gnt­ting into. You have opportunities to practice," she said. explaining that students enrolled in tho course take five practice full-

The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, February 19, 1999 
length exams before the real test. "You can see your progrns­
Eck
sion and hm,v to improve." Other pre-med students like 
continued from page l
Rowland have chosen to prepan' 
solo. 
Association o!Iices and visitors' 
'Tm not doing Kaplan because 
center. The complex was 
it's expensive and it's extremely 
designed by S/L/A/M
lime-consuming," she said. 

Collaborative, a Connecticut Instead. Rowland said she 
architecture firm. schedules three hours of study Follett College Stores. whid1 
during the week and two on 

has 585 stores in North America. werkends, treating those times will run tho shop. The compan.1, 
as she would any other appoint­

based in Elmhurst, Ill., has opPr• ment and refusing to consider 
ated the llmnmes Notro Damn them optional. Bookstore for two years and runs 
"I have a couple of hooks with the Joyce Center varsity shops. 
practice tt>sts ... land I I prur.tice 

The old facility on South Quad a half-hour writing sample at 
has f'unclioncd as Notrn Dame's leas! once a week," she said. "I 
bookstore since 1955. It will be hope fit's as good as a course! l 
torn down this spring and new don't know for sure. 
facilities for Lhe f.irst Y(iar of' "I hope that I can continue to 
SturliRs and Campus Ministry will be self-disciplined enough that 
be built in the next two years.it'll come out OK in the end," Rowland continued. "They [the Kaplan students] are more pre­
• 
pared in terms of the actual for­mat of the test." \\'alter omphasizod that regardless of which methods 

Buedness & Spirftualily
stud,mts choose, preparation basically comes down to study­ing. 


Do tLey mh:'I 
"There's plenty of materials out there ... They have to be dis­ciplined," he said. 

Women Pastors of Michiana
But 0omingo said she thinks Lhe MCAT tests more just bm, many farts and figures students 

Present 
can memorize. "It's testing to see how dedi­cated you are to wanting to be a 


CLaDen9es a:nd
doctor because it takes so much 
stamina," she said. "If you're not 
really dedicated, there's no way 

Opport•••¦ilies of
you can get through it." Younger pre-med majors might not be feeling the crunch 


Managing a Mhnstry
like their junior counterparts just yet, but the drive to be a doctor does intluence these stu­dents' attitudes toward their classes. 

Kaye Ferguson-Patton St. Paul's United Methodist Church 
"It's definitely in the back of your mind, but I don't really 

Mary Hubbard Central United Methodist Church 
think about it," said Aaron 
McCann, a sophomore science 

Regina Wilson St. Joseph Church 
pre-professional major who 
intends to take the DAT. den­

Tina Velthiuzen Church of the Holy Trinity 
tistry's analog to the MCAT. "You always hear people talking about [the MCAT] ... Personallv I don't really worry about thii{gs that far down the road. 

WHEN? WEDNESDAY FEBRUARY 24
"l think that everyone's trying to make sure this is what they want to do because it's so much 

WHERE? COBA ROOM 162 
work," McCann continued, citing organic chemistry class as an 

TIME? 3:45-5:00 p.m.
example of the pre-professional workload. "What we're going through now has nothing to do with being a doctor ... but just 

PRESENTED BY COBA DIVERSITY
telling yourself it's what you 
want to do [motivates you to do 

it anyway." · • • 






INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS 
and Students Who Attended High Schools In :ern ationally 
The Office of Undergraduate Adtnissions and the Intematior al Student Recruitment Committee invite undergraduate students to join us for dinner and a brief meeting to discuss participating in our new and exciting initiatives to helti Not re Dame recruit international students to the Univers .ty. 
We will meet in the Coffee House in the Center for Social Concerns, Wednesday February 24th . Dinner wil1 be served at 5:30 p.1n., with our meeting to follow. 
Please join us with your ideas, energy and app :tite 


INTERNATIONAL STUD}~NTS 
and Students Who Attended High Schools In reruationally 
.~-L 




__________...._____________________..-------~---p~----------­

hiday, February 19, I 999 
¦ 'NORI.D NEWS BAH.TS 
Turner apologizes for Pope jokes 
t\Tl.i\NTI\ 

T<'cl Turn1~r apol<1gi1Prl for ll'lling a l'olish _jokl' in n•li•n-ncn Lo l'opP .John Paul II and f'or sugi.(Psting llH• han on adultery should be droppPd !'mm llw TPn Commandments. Turrwr said in a stat1•11wnt W('{l!wsday night lo tlw Catholk I.PaguP, an anti-dnl'nmation organization. that he "regrets any ofTPnsn his «·ommnnts may hav1i caused ... and PX!Pmls his !wartl'Plt apologins." T!w formPr CNN rhi1•1'. who is now vin~ cliairman of' Timt• Wanwr lnr., macl«i his rnmarks ltll'sday night whilP addr<•ssing tho National Family Planning and Hnproductivn .'\ssori11lion in Washington. The group sup­port:-. al.rnrlion rights and contracq>tion, whil'II Llw p111w opposos. 
Two die as trains collide in Germany 
MUNICI!. G!'rmany 

Two passPngt>r trains col!id<'d nnar tlrn ,,;011llll'rn CPn11a11 city or lmmnnstadt today. killing two 1woplP and injuring :n, authori­tiPs said. Tlw c·.aus<' or tlw accidPnt ,war tlrn :\ustrian hordt1r about 7r:, mill's sout.hw1isl ol' M1111kh was und1·r invnst.igation, although (;l'l'lllall rail spokcsn11111 BPiner l.alsch said sa hotagi• was 110!. suspt•t'.11'rl. Lalsch dndirrnd to <·011111H•nl on wliPtlwr snow or nwr.hanical !'ailurP mighl havP playc•d a roll'. l'olicn said llw last 1·ar of lfw lnlPrCity train bound for Dortmund in northwestern C11rmany ,1Prnil1•d first, and was struck by a local train lravPling on an adjacPnt track toward tlw ski rr•sorl town or Olmrstdorf'. Thn loco­nw1ivc1 ol' tlw local train tippml ov1n-and all Sl'VPll wagons dPrailPd. 
Pennsylvania man buys Simpson's Heisman 
LOS /\NCEL!!S 

l'hP man who paid $2:lC:,,:iOO for 0.J. Simpson's l!Pisman Trophy was identiliPd Thursday as a l'l!iladPlphia slwPl nwtal dPal(ff \\ ho said Im want.Pd lo imprnss his girlf'rinnd. Tom "Jui«·1!" Krit1ss11ian. ·H, showncl up at an at1clion ho11s1• lo <·01!1•1·t thn trophy, whil'.h was awan!Pd to Simpson in ICJfi8 wlwn lw was a star at tlu• llnivPrsity of' Southern California. KriPssman bmrghl Liu• prizn anonymously at a r·1111rl-ordPn•d auction of Simpson mnmorabilia Tt1Psday. "0111• ol' tlw lirst rPasuns was I want­NI to imprPss my girlf'rinnd," Kriessman said. "It n•prnsPnl.s tlrn story of' a man who rose to l,p a su1wrstar and lost it all overnight. ! bought it for 11vNythi11g it rnprnsunts: The trial of I.hi' 1•pnturv. 0 ..1. 's wholn carnnr, what ltappPnnd -you °know, the tragndy that was his lili•. l just think in the future it's going to bn worth a lot of llltllwy." 
iMtM!i&Ndfht:..-­
Dow 
AMEX: 68') .82 

JONES 
t 1.17 Nasdaq: 2260.55 
+] 1.64 NYSE: 586.•16 

903 
+6.11 
S&P 500: I ZJ'J .. 30 

Composite Volu111e: 

+103.16 734,500,000 
VOLUME LEADERS 

fUMl'A~X n1·t:tH '!1fll!Wir J Si&l?!:t CH.lfl 
Pl I ! I O\.fftll II I! 1111.J +I 76 .J.1..U71\ tHJ}O "111 kP\lll I C CJMi' \1\1'1 -ZHl -4.Z!i!IO H;.1; t l"I( l)I. 11141' I \l 0 . l.12 t I Ut1SO 
IJQ. Jq 1\111 CUit!• l'.'-lt •l HO ~ :t~<J.'i,O IZM.12 OIIAC I I" i UHl1 llRU' -{IHb -fl-HOU .~0.81 >\i'l'IJl!l\,UII Rl,'1 \\t,\i -I n7 -1 12~0 hl1.Z5 \{)~ \.ti( ttO\\'\I IM \ti~\\.' .n (J7 .fl.Ol,21:. 11.i.oo \\11\/t 1, I U\.l l''t ,\\.11' .4 ~H •-1.0000 1\9,50 \.HI Wtlltlll\ 0\1 WI U\4 •.! 41• t-.:! UO~H l'\Z.11\ Y,\11\)o I~( Y . [llC! ·H .17 -0.74~{} 12RJl/.l 
ti 

COMPILED FROM TllE OBSERVER WIRF SERVICES page S 
'Comeback' Clinton returns to NH 
AssouA ITO PRESS 

NEW I IAMPSll!RE 
i\s the White llouse said. th(irn is sonwthing spncial about Now llampshirc for Prnsid,mt Clinton -and not just the comeback he claimed in dnf'eat seven years ago. It is where he put on nalional display the traits that led to his impeachmP-nt and the survival talents that got him through it. 
So it was lilting coincidrmce that Clinton's first polit­i<'al outing since tho Senate acquittPd him was to New !lampshirn on Thursday. First Lo Dov1:r, where the IIJ<Jl candidate had conceded that Im was on the rnpns ovor his pnrsonal, not his public lifn. and thon to Manclrnster to raise funds for the Democrats who help1\d him withstand that crisis. 
"They took a chance on him and I think he's repaid that trust with his performance in oflicn,'' said !'au! Bcgala, tlwn a campaign strategist. now a White Ilouse adviser. 
There w11rn rnminders that Clinton's personal bohavior had once again thrcatnnod his undoing ­tlw "disgrace" mlitorial on the l'nmt page of the con­servative The Union Leader. thn protestnrs with their "shame placards in Dover. 
But nnly on the sidelines. 

"Thnre's a popular myth that he survived in Nr.w I!ampshirn, or indr.nd survived today, bncausn of his political talent. which is manif'nst," Bcgala said. "My vic\w is that he's surviving, then and today, bncause of his iclnas. It's not about if Im can dnlivnr a speoch, it's if !rn can delivnr a program." 
Bui sprwclrns, skilled tnl11vision pnrformances, somntimes contrition, sometimes confrontation, and art.fully dodging denials, all were part of thn campaign coursn that savec Clinton's prnsid11ntial campaign in 
191)2, 

And tho s11tting was Now Hampshire, whern the gowrnor of Arkansas moved onto a national stage, and collided with scandalous sex accusations. 
Thti denials that got him through that worn worded as trickily as his defense in tlrn Monica Lewinsky a!Tair. 
"Tho story is not accurate, the story is just not trun." Clinton said afl1w Gennifer Flowers claimed a !2-vPar affair with him. Undnr oath, in tho Paula Jnn;!S snxual harassment cas1!, Clinton admitted that t!wy'd had illicit soxual rfllations in I 977. Once, though, not in a long affair. 
Slw had bePn calling him periodically. with her tape rncordnr running, in late 1991 and early 191>2. Clinton said Im talked with her becausn she was in distress as tlrn pursuit by the tabloids. IIn also said, incongruous­ly, lhal Im had told her "to just lnll tlrn truth." She'd earlier taped his suggestion that if 1werybody d1\nind an affair, no problnms. 
Six years later, deceptively dnnying sexual rnlations with Ms. Lewinsky, the president glared into the tnle­vision cameras: "I nflvPr told anybody to lie. Not one singin time. Nevor." His impeachers tried, and failed, to prove otherwise. 

¦ FRANCE 



French to extradite U.S. fugitive 
ASSOCJATtD PRESS 
BORDEAUX 
A Frnnch court agreed Thursday to ('Xtradlt(' American fugitive Im Einhorn to thn United States, then nllowud him to walk free, heighten• ing foars he might nee the country. 
Einhorn, wantt1d in Philadelphia for the 1977 murder of his girl• l'riend. smiled wh.::n the court approved the U.S. t)Xtradition request then ordered him set free pending his appeal. 
Th1i joy felt by two of the victim's sisters at the extradition decision was tinged by Einhorn's expression, which they interpreted as t1 sign he might flee again. 
'Tm jumping all over fnside,'' said Elisahl'th Ball. "I reel a great deal of vindication. But I'd be vnry sur• prised if he doesn't escape again. Fortunately, the world's smaller 

now, and people know what he 
looks like." 
Einhorn, now 58, lltid the United 
States in 1981 shortly he!'ore his 
trial in a Pennsylvania court. 
He was later sentencod in abs1-1ntia to life in prison for tho murdor of Helen ''Ilolly'' Maddux, whose .corpse was found stuffed in a trunk in a doset at his Philadelphia home. 
He denies killing her. 
An antiwnr campaigner and 
activist in the 1960s, he was well 
known in Philadelphia, where he 
once ran for mayor. 
Aft1:1r living irt England, lrtiland and Sweden under false names, Einhorn was arrested in Prance in June 1997 . 
But the Bordeaux court refust~d to uxtradite him, citing a French law that requires a retrial for all defen­dants. Pennsylvania then passed a law promising Einhorn a retrial. He was re-arrested in September 1998. 
On Thursday, the court said that along with the guaranteed rntrial. Einhorn must not face the death penalty. 
Mary Maddux said she and lrnr sisters never wanted Einhorn exc• cuted. "We want him to live with what hH did for th(l rest or his lifo," she said. 
Einhorn's lawyer, Dominique Tricaud. said an appeal on the llxtrndltion decision could takn up to two years. Einhorn went to his homo in a village outside Bordeaux, nccompanif.ld by his pnrtnnr, Anika Flodin, a Swed('. 
In Philadrlphia, District Attorney Lynne Abraham also expressed con­cern lhnt Einhorn would run once again. 
"He has proved to bfl elusive and resourc1~ru1 in the past," said Abraham, interviewed on WCAU-TV. 
MIAA 
continued from page l 
the athletic and academic standards of the confer­ence," Cook said. "They want to make sure that [Saint Mary's] is an academ­ic and athletic peer for the conference." 
Throughout the evaluation process. l\l!Ai\ representa­tives have visited the campus three timns, intrrviewed employees of' the Financial /\id and Admissions offices and spoken with faculty rep­resentatives, coaches, stu­dent-athletes and athletic directors. Tbe evaluators also toured the athletic facil­ities. 
So far, Lhe process has 

gone  well,  according  to  
Cook.  
"Academically, there is  no  

question that we are a fit for the conference," she said. "We are also competitive in the conference." 
One drawback for Saint Mary"s could be its current lack· nf athletic facilities like a track and swimming pool. Improvements made in the past year -especially the addilion of a new gymnasi­um floor -should compen­sate, said Cook. 
"The conference has heard that we are taking strides to remedy the situation," she said. 
Those strides include plan­ning for new athletic facili­ties in the future. with an emphasis rm building a track and swimming pool. 
"Constructing the floor required a large financial contribution to athletics," Cook said. "They see that we 
page 6 The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS Friday, February 19, 1999 
Mom and Dad, THANI(S FOR READING 

THE OBSERVER. 


are willing to put money into the athletic department to meet conference standards." 
Stud en t-athleto interviews focused on student attitude toward the conference, according to Michelle Samrnta, the MIAA student representative. 
"Thev were interested in knowin·g what it was like to be a woman athlete," said SamrPta. "For a lot of sports, it gives women's teams the chance to compete away from tlrn men." 
Interviewers also wanted to know what student-ath­lntes considered the advan­

tages to joining the confer­enc!l, said Samreta. 
"For one thing, it makes the college more marketable for student athletes," she said. "Also, it is good for current athletes because we can be competitive in the conference.'' 
Cook echoed Samreta's observation about recruiting. 
"It l{ives us a huge edge in (recruiting in] the Michigan area, whir.h is good becausP. Michigan is the socond­largest area that admissions draws from," she said. 
Closure to the athletic sea• son and broadened athletic opportunity are also major advantages. 
"Each sport has the oppor­tunity for championship competition, which gives clo­sure to the season," Cook said. "The teams also have the opportunity to competP. in Division II[ nationals if they win thosr compnti­t.ions." 
Conference competition also raises the love! or ath­letic expectation, Cook said. 
"The quality of competition in the l\1IAA is strong in every sport. It pushes our student athlntPs to become better athletes." 
Th a n k y 
to The Observer's 



1998-1999 General Board 
JENNIFER BRESLOW MICHAEL BROUILLET KYLE CARLIN PETE CtLELLA KEVIN DALUM SARAH DYLAG BRETT HUELAT EDUARDO LLULL KRISTI KLITSCH ALLISON KRILLA 

MICHELLE KRUPA KATHLEEN LOPEZ BRYAN LUTZ HEATHER MACKENZIE KERRY MCPARTLIN ISABEL PEREZ-FRANCESCHINI BRIAN REINTHALER DAVID ROGERO SHANNON RYAN 

You guys made it a fantastic year. I appreciate all you've done to n1ake The Observer a better paper, and I zvish you the best of luck in the future. 
Love, Heather 
w 

Friday, February 19, 1999 The Observer. INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
¦ TURKEY 
Turkish troops chase Kurdish rebels 
Associa1etl Press 
ANKAH!\ 

Pounding rebel bases in norllrnrn Iraq and hunting fighters in thldr mountain hidPouts, Turkey's army is lrnaring down hard on a Kurdish gunrrilla group l'ollow­ing the capturn of its leader. 
Tim Turkish military n-lliasnd no casualty figures l'rom tlw righting in northern Iraq agairn;t Kurdish rebels loyal to Abdullah Ocalan. who was abducted by Turkish com­mandos in Knnya on Monday. 
With Or.alan's rnbnl Kurdistan Workers Party, or l'KK, apparnntly lnacl1)rlnss, tllf' military kPpt up ils latnst infursion into neighboring 
no rtlw rn  Iraq i11  pursuit of  
gut• rill as  who  huvn  hasns  
lhnrP.  

Th<) Kurd rnlrnls, who want to r.arve out an autonomous l1011wland in snuthnast Turkey, havP offornd to 1wgotiate, but Turkey has rnjnct11cl the omir and is prPssing forward with a military solution. 
T u r k is h 111' ws pa pP r s s a id that about I0,000 soldinrs harl stor 111 <' d i11 to nortlw r11 Iraq. 
Baghdad has strongly denounced the incursion and ha:s demanded that Turkey withdraw. 
In southern Turkey, mean­while, pro-Kurd demonstrators protosting the capture or Ocalan rircd on police Thursday. wounding three ofli­C()rs and a protester, the offi­cial Anatolia nows agency reported. 
The clash in Ccyhan, 330 miles south of Ankara, was the l'irst violent confrontation lrntween Kurds and police since Ocalan ·s capture. 
Turks have been celebrating since the capture of Ocalan, and many hope that his trial will help lead to an end to the conflict. Some :H,000 people have dind since lighting erupt­ml in 1984. 
Prime Minister Bulent Ecevit said Urn government would rn,rnw a call to rnbels to sur­re ndcr, assuring them that parliament would pass a law providing lenient punishment after P!r.ctions in April. 
Fallout was heavy after the Turkish commando operation that snatched Ocalan l'rom 

Greek diplomatic hands in Nairobi, Kenya on Monday. 
Three Greek Cabinet minis­ters, including the foreign min­ister, were forced to resign, and in Nairobi, tho Cabinet was roshufned. 
The capture of Ocalan con­tinued to fuel Kurdish protests in Europe for the third day on Thursday, particularly in Germany, where it was feared the Kurdish conflict would spill over onto its soil. 
In Germany, home to Western Europe's largest Kurdish community, Kurds attacked eateries run by Turks in Heilbronn and Muenster, beating six people. 
Three Kurds were shot to death by Israeli guards Wednesday as they tried to storm the Israeli r.onsulate in Btulin, after reports Israel helped Turkr,y track down Ocalan. Israel denies the reports. 
Ocalan apparently had diffi­culty contacting his fighters while frantically seeking refuge in Europe, Turkish offi­cials said. 
Most PKK guerrillas were 
n11al Diak 
Friday, February 19th, 19 at 7:00 p.m. 

n The LaFortune Student Cent Ballroom 
an-FORmaL arrzRe ReQu 
eke ts are $3 fo nd $5 General A On Sale Now the LaFortune infor 

forced to seek refuge in areas of northern Iraq that wnre controlled by Baghdad. 
Iraq denies harboring the rebels. Turkey handed evi­dence to Iraq's Deputy Prime Minister Tariq Aziz of their presence on Iraqi territory while Aziz was visiting Ankara on Monday. 
Turkish prosecutors began their interrogation of Ocalan on Thursday. traveling to the tiny prison-island of lmrali, off the coast of Istanbul. 
The military released video tapes Thursday showing Ocalan drenched in sweat and looking uncomfortable, stand­ing between two red Turkish nags at the pri.son. 
Turkish stations ran the footage with a caption reading: "This is the image Turkey has been waiting for for the past 15 years." 
Ocalan is expected to be for­mally charged next week. 
Turkish intelligence reports suggest that the PKK faces an internal connict for leadership, pitting Ocalan 's brother, Osman, against a leading PKK commander, Cerna! Bayik. 
page 7 
¦ JAPAN 



Parliament passes '99 budget 
Associated Pras 
TOKYO 
The lower house of pariia~ menL approved Japan's 1999 national budget Friday, boosting spending by 5.4 percent and cutting taxes in hopes of jolting the economy out of its worst recession in decades. 
The $682.5 billion plan, which now got~s to the upptir house for a vote, is packaged with legislution cutting taxes by more than $75 billion. 
The plan is aimed at pumping more money into Japan's moribund economy, which is sufi'ering from ane­mic consumer spending, a record-high unemployment rate and a hobbled financial system. 
"Once the budget passes, I will feel like we have climbod 
a. major mountain," said Prime Minister Keizo Obuchi. 







"1pt 
HAIR MODELS NEEDED 
For Monday's Training Program by Licenced Professionals. Call for Information 
289-5080 

RICHARD GLAZIER pianist 
RAGTIME & ROMANCE: JOPLIN AND GERSHWIN 
Tuesday, Feb. 23, 1999 • 7:30 p.m. 
MOREAU CENTER-IMDREA-0<;_~NT}'k._ /
LITTLE THEATRE ~..:r..:t~::..,N 
For ticket information, contact the Saint Marys box office (219) 284-4626 

Clinton to speak at annual NAACP leaders meeting 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 

President Clinton is a fea­tured guest at the NAACP's 90th annual meeting, which unlike in recent vears will hear good news ·about the organization's finances. 
The NAACP. the nation's largest and oldcsl civil rights group. was playing host to Clinton at a special reception tonight 
brifore the 
main meeting Saturdav. 
Through his creation of the race advi­sory board, Clinton has attempted to increase the discussion of racial and ethnic issues in J\merica. 
He is expected lo release a report this spring on the White House's racial reconcil­iation campaign. 
In contrast to the recent past. NAACP Chairman Julian Bond said the futun1 bears promising financial prospects for the association. 
Bond said corporate giving to the association is up 40 percent and foundation gifts 50 percent over the past year. Revenue from memberships is 

up $2. 7 million in the last year, Bond said. 
"We will have many other good things to talk about Saturday,tt Bond said. 
Funding has been critical sinr.e the National Association for the Advancement or Colored People teetered on insolvency during the mid­1990s. Debi totaling $3 mil-
CLINTON, WHO IS 
EXPECTED TO RELEASE A REPORT THIS SPRING ON 
THE WHITE HOUSE'S 
RACIAL RECONCILIATION 
CAMPAIGN, WILL BE A FEA· 
TURED GU~T AT THE 
NAACP MEETING SUNDAY. 
lion and internal leadership battles at the time also ham­pered the association. 
Bond said the NAACP has 
organized 34 new college and 
high school chapters, includ­
ing offshoots at llarvard 
University and Stanford 
University and has sought to 
put race relations as a critical 
issue on the nation's agenda. 
Bond and NAACP President 
Kweisi Mfume, who is respon­
sible for day-to-day opera­
tions, will address delegates 
and members from the 
group's 2,220 local units 
Please recycle The Observer. 


The Office of Information Technologies' Solutions Centeris having an early "Spring Technology Sale." 
February 19, 1999 
9:00 a.m -6:00 p.m. 
University of Notre Dame Stepan Center 
All new computers, monitors, and printers have been discounted beyond our already low educational pricing. Used systems, from the Campus Workstation Program, have been priced to sell quickly. 
lf you''-~ in the market for a computer, come to Stepan Center to see for yourself. 
You can find more information and a partial list of available systems on our Web Site at.. 
http://www.nd.edu/ ~solution 
My Favorite Martian DIGITAL PG (11:45, 2:0014:20, 6:45, 9:00 
Message In a Bottle DIGITAL PG-13 11050. 1:40]4:40. 7:45, 1025 11~4:00, 7:00, 950 
Blast From the Past DIGITAL PG-13 111:50, 2:3lJ5:10.7:40. 1010 Lile Is Beautiful DIGITAL PG-13 111:35. 2:20) 5:25, 8:20 
Payback DIGITAL R 
111:40, 215] 4:45. 7:10. 9:40 
[1220,2:50]5:20,8.00'. 10.40 

'oo fl:vl< Satlswy Foo. 20lh She'sAIIThot DIGITAL PG-13 [11 :10, 1 50] 4:1s.650, !l:20 llll<M)'Blues DIGITAL R 
112:.D.3:00JS:35.8'10.10:35 

Oclobe,Sky DIGITAL PG 
[11:al, 1:4514::ll.7:15.9:45 
Oflloe Spoa, DIGITAL R 
[1240, 3:10}5:3'.l, 7SJ. 10:00 
DIGITAL R 112:15.240)5:00, 7:20, 9:25 

-
5(,vlng-Ayan DIGITAL R 
{12:10]425.8.15 

Shak.eopu-llnL.oWe DIGITAL R 
[11:15. 2:10]4:50, 7:3:l, 1():15 

You'"' Got Mall DIGITAL P(l 
11:101,4:10, 7:W,9:35 "rosho.vSaUtlay Feb. 20tl p..,i,-DIGITAL PG-13 
l1inj4{6.6:55. 9:30 The0dier5-Sneak,.,,_ DIGITAL PG-13 7:alpmSaumy Fw alt\ (jjy' Ani!ly1J, Tols DIGITAL PG-13 7::ll pm Saluidav FliJ 2Jltl ext; 

i~,Stay as our !).ES! for You've Got mal al 9:35pm 
FREE REFILL 
on All Sizes of Popcorn & Soft Drinks! 
R R 
ONLY $1 00 All Shows Before 6pm
• Everyone• Everyday $1.50 All Evening Shows :J 6. 
At First Sight  PG-13  
[1:25] 4:20, 7:10, 9:50  
Mighty Joe Young  PG  
[1:20]. 4:00, 6:50. 9:15  
[2:20]5:00, 7:30, 10:00  
TheWmert,oy  PG-13  
[200) 4:40 7:20 9:30  
Rugrts  G  
[2:10]4:3, 6:45, 9:10  
Enemy of lhe State  R  
[1:30]4:15, 7:00, 9:40  

Times in [brackets) incficateSaturday and Sunday Matinees only 
Now! Students and Seniors $4_00 Anytime 
at the Showplace 16 and Town & Country theatres 
Saturday. 

Bond will discuss the statfl of race relations. Other topics to be examined at thA meeting arc protecting affirmative action, considering the prob­lPrn of police brutality and helping ex-felons have their rights to vote restored. 
"We wern founded in 1909 to fight a rising tide of white supremacy," Bond said. "Sadly, while legal apartheid has been vanquished, our democracy is still stained." 
On Sunday, the NAACP and 
·.. ,··,··. .. Make reservations now for JPW 
jil\i'11i~"afjl,~:.;i(~!~.l'~-tt'J.i~~j}Jt'i~~/-'\l.'.~~\;t;:,·,(,/;},',..;J.:.(.Z,•;,tt(.j;~,.,)'il' · 

~i~: 
~-..,_..-..1;,,,,.;i.:.....-., .• 

k 

0 ~~NOW 
Itallan/Stcllia.n c---// Dining ~/ OPEN 
South Bend's newest Italian Restaurant Great family owned tradition Italian specialties made to order 
Fresh Prepared Pasta dinners 
Veal, Chicken and Seafood 
Deep Dish Chicago Style Pizza 
Traditional Thin Crust Pizza 
Fine beverage selection 
Family Style Dinners for parties of 10 or more 
Dial Phone Appetit, 674-0900 Category 8466 for more info. 
Located Downtown South Bend 
235 S. Michigan St. 233-1000 

the American Cancer Society will sponsor a national breast and cervical cancer training workshop in Washington desigm~d to help bring attfln­tion to the illnesses, which strike black women at dispro­portionately high ratfls. 



Friday, February 19, 1999 The Ohserver • TECHNOLOGY NEWS page 9 
Feds: Compaq gave Microsoft tips on competition 
}EI"-···\l' 
.-· =.. ,;~ 
..,:1::
',_ 
Shimmering with suspense and emotional intensity, Me.mrge in a Bottle take!i readers on a hunt for the truth about a man and his memories, and about both the heart-breaking fragility and enormous urength of love. For those who cherished The Notebook and readers waiting to discover the magic of Nicholas Sparks' Jtorytelling, here is his new, achingly lovely novel of happenstan<:e, desire, and the chokes that matter the most ... 
(I'-MRNER BOOKS 
i\m><:iated Press 
Wt\SIIINGrclN 

In n dramatic courtroom con­
frontalion, llw gnv1!rnmnnl 
allPg1·d Thursday that Compaq 
Com putcr Cnrp. passed sm'.rnt 
information to Microsoft Corp. 
ahoul an upstart Microsoft com­
petitor. 
David Boies. a .Justicn 
D<•1rnrlnwnt lawy{!I", madn llrn acrusation in SP1iking to discr11rl­it lPslimony by a senior Compaq nxncutiv11 and Microsoft witness in tlw antilrusl lrail of' thn com­plltN softwarn giant. 
The witrrnss. John llosn, a 
snnior vii'<' prnsid1mt of Compaq. 
tm,lilfocl ho was unawarn that 
his <·ompany had passl'd along 
to Mirrosnl"t uny r.onfidnnlial 
information about Be Inc .. which 
also mak,•s a ,·omputPr opPrat­
i11g syslnm. 
Passing SH<'rnts obtairwcl undnr 
a so-calhid nomlisrlosun• agro,•­
nrnnt to another company's rival is oxtrmnnly sNious, thn indus­try's nquivalcnl lo being caught clwating on a spouse. 
"Microsort has sur,h pownr in tlm industry that Compaq fools it is in Compaq's int11rnst to sham tlw d(ltails or conlidnntial negoti­ations," Boies said. 
/\ lawyer for Compaq. WHliam Coston. called the accusation a "clrnap trial stunt" and com­plained to U.S. District Judge Thomas Pnnfield .Jackson thut his courtroom was being "sul­lind." 
Tho judge nnded thn episode after tlw witness denied any knowlodgn of a disclosure. But lw 1wm1•d conl!int with assur­ances f'rom Boies when he asked, "You havr. a good-faith basis for that'?" 
/\nothnr Compaq lawyer, Tom Sickman. ,mid outside th11 court­room that the company "tak1~s its nbligations very, very snrious-
Iv.·· 

· "It's not appropriatn to mak,i an allegation of this kind in open court," said Sickman, who addnd that Compaq was investigating. 
Jean-Louis Gassec, the chair­man and chief cx11cutivc otTicor ror Be, based in Menlo Park, Calif., said in a telephone inter­vinw with The Assodated Press that Compaq had called him "a littl(l ombarrassed" about thrrni months ago confessing what it described as an inadvertent dis­closurfl to Microsoft. 
"Microsol't is such a threat to tho livnlihood of PC (makers). thcr·e is a r,limatfl of fear," Gassen said Thursday. "They will do things almost instinctive­ly tu propitiate Microsoft." 
Thursday's accusation was lhr. lat1ist in the government's thnmc thal Mir.rosofl wields its enor­mous inllucncc inappropriately. The .luslir.c Department charges that Mirrosoft violated antitrust laws by using its monopoly powor to dissuade Compaq and others from doing business with ~et.scape and other Microsoft. rivals. 
Microsort denies that it pos­sesses monopoly power. 
Boies on Thursday also intro­ducod a November 1996 e-mail from Compaq speculating why Microsoft was offering to sham with Compaq money it earned from Internet subscribers. 
"Why is Microsoft making Lhis olfor? ... Microsoft dons scnm to very strongly want to get/lrnep Nr.tscape Navigator off Prnsario desktops," Compaq cxeculivc Bob Friedman wrote. 
Hose denied Thursday that Microsoft had exert<'d any pres­sure to discourage Compaq from dealing with Netscape. "I was newir awarn of Microsoft wanti­ng us to exclude the NetscapP icon from the desktop," he said. 
Compaq canceled plans in 
199(1 to distribute Netscapn's browser but currently includns the sof'twarn with its computors. 
Tim govnrnnrnnt allf'gos that Microsoft throatnnncl in 199<1 to slop St!lling Windows to Compaq, which was distributing Nntscapn's brows(1r but also had removed easy accoss to Mir:rosol't's. 
Compaq has said it mistakenly made that changn unchir a 1IJCJ!i agrmmrnnt with A1mirica 0nlinn Inc. stipulating that AOL's Internet icons would bn tho only onns oasily accnssible to con­sumers. And it has said that Microsoft was correct to object. 
The judgn cast doubt on tlw explanation Thursday, saying the Microsoft-Compaq agrnn­ment was dated August 11)95 but was not signnd nor exncutnd until .lunn 1996. Tlw disparity "makes no sensP. at all if this was a gnnuinn agroernent," .Jackson said. 
VIEWPOINT 
page 10 ------------------------OB~ERVER -----------------Friday, February 19, 1999 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTl\f DAME OHlCE: P.O. Hox Q, NDtre D,1me, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY·~ OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-ClilEF Heather Coch MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Brian Reimhaler Kyle Carlin 
AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR Heather MacKenzie 

NEWS EDITOK .......................Michelle Krupa AnVER.TISISG MANAGER .........,.............,l3ryan L1.1r1. VIEWPOINT EDITOR ..................Eduardo Llull An DESIGN MANAGER ..... lsabel Pere-z-rranceschini SroRTS EmroR ...................... Karhlccn Lopez SYSTfM~ MANAGER ....................Michael llrouillc1 SCF.NF. EDITORS ...........................Sarah Dyl:ig (',ONTROI.I.ER .....................................Dave Rogcrn 
Kristi Kfosch Wm ADMINISTRATOR ......................Allison Krilla s,1N1· MAn\'S EnrroR ......M. Shannon Ry,n GllArHICS EfllTOR ...............................Pcte Cilel\a PHOTO EmroR ........................Kevin Dalttm 
The <.)bscrver ii: che indepcndenr newspaper puhli~hed by chc m11.k·nf!i or lhe University .,fNom: Dame du Lac -and S:1.inc M:iry's College. It docs nOl necessarily reflect rhc policies ofrhi-admir1istracion ofcicher insritution. Thl' news is 
rcporicd as accumtdy and objei.::dvdy as possihle. Unsigned cdill'>riills reprC"scm rhe opinion of the m..1joriry ofthe 
Fdimr-in-Chit'I, M,rnaging F.Jicor, A,;sistam Managing Ediwr and dcpanmenc editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present du.' view.~ of rhc authors, and nnt 11«:cs.s,1.rily thoii<; of'l'he Observer. Viewpoint space is availal,lc to all 
mcniber~ of [he: Nom: Dame/Saint Maiy's communiry and co all n:aders. The frcx expression of varying opinions 
lhwui;h. ldccrs. i\, encouraged. 
Contacting The Observer 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Bu,incss Office 6.'1-5313 Man;\gmg Ediror/Assistant ME 631-454 I Adverti,ing 63 !-6900/8840 N~w"/Pl1oto 631-5.U.i System., 631-8839 Sporb 631-4543 rax 631-6927 Scc11e/Snim M.in,\ 631-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. I€Vnd.edu Dar Fdi1or/Vie~poim 63 l -~:103 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu Otlii.:c-Manager/General Information 631-7471 News E-Mail observer.obsnews. I <fvnd.edll 


The Gender Relations and Multiculturalism Report 
It is about time that Notre Dame con­fronts its problems of gendrir relations lrnad-on. In order to do this, it will be nocessary to look to other cultures to solve the· multi-layered nature of gender problems. 
Jeff Langan 

Since the multicultural approach is by its nature an intl\rdisciplinary approach, Notre Dame should turn to multicultural studies to resolve its gendPr problems. 
The multicultural approach offers a further advantagP. Ry studying other cultures, students will commonly find one nxamplA that resolves a number of problems that those same students find in their own culture. Multiculturalism, being interdisciplinary in nature, requires that students not examine one problem at a timn, as rationalist and myopic Westernnrs are prone lo do. Instead, multiculturalism requires that students examine several problems at once, in order to see how other cultures, preferably those outside of the UnitPd Stains and Europe, resolve similar prob­lems. This way, multicultural studies arc superior to the stale, one-track rational approach frequently used by Westnrn cultures. 
Furthermore, multicultural studies are not just thnorctical. They offer real and practical solutions to the dilemmas we modern Westerners face. To be spe­cific. let's look at some gender issues in American universities in general. and Notre Dame in particular. In general, gender relations at most American uni­versities have taken a turn for the worst over the past generation. Date rape and 

¦ DOONESBIJ!W GARRY TRUDEAU 
SO IF YOU'Re NOTH£:1?£ 70 PARTY, IF YaJ'J<!5 NOT Stl?IOUS Aaa.rT IT, 7H£N WN'T Q)M& 70 MINN£:-­
S:XA, JACJ<.' "-., 
{('. 

¦ Quon OF THE DAY 
, Insanity is hereditary. You get it from your kids.' 
-Badge, Brussels 


VIEWPOINT 
triday. hbruary 19, 1999 ---
-------------------------page I I 
¦ SUPER HtGH INTENSITY TRAINING FOR THE MIND 
Getting Attention and Thinking for Yourself 

Some folks wunt,~d the non-discrimina-Wild-Card. Can be as high us numbnr :-3, lion daL1sii passed and decicltid tlmy'd or as low as number 11. Dopends wholly starvii tlwmsl'!vos trying to porsuadc the on the food being given. Taking someone Bnarcl ol'Trustocs lo adopt it. lo North l)ining Hall so they c:an be 
The pcopll\ wh() starved tlrnmsclvns harassed. frisk11d and b1mton by under­d1irivcd tlwir stratllh'Y of porsua."iinn from cover cops on the way out is much less a t:omhinalion of tlw following options: elfoctivc llum going to La Esperanza for 
1 l d,•priving / giving world-class !hod. (LoL,; of' !hod, good 
2) St!lf/ others <fouls. Next door to Nick's Patio.) :il food/ drink/ both food and drink 9: Give yoursnlf food: Eat up. A bnttnr As a pubIi(' snrvice to anyonP thinking long-term plan than anything else. 
ofstarving his1lwr sell' to get smrn\one Should be used in conjunction with a rig-r+w to do sonw­
=========~~=~==~ orous wcight-train­

lhing. I haw ,·om-ing program consist­
s R pilt•d a list-in ing of heavy weights (ll'cr,~asing ordf'r of penCer ~~a_.;_·· and lower repoti-l'lfortiVPIWSS -of all ,, ' -~_-.#•.··.· .. tions. Don't wastn 12 possiblt> stral('· any time doing car-
Stefko 

git•s. ,, diovascular activitv, 
I: (;ivc others though, as it wa.<;tcs food and drink: calories that could Brilm tht•m. This is bn usnd to build a tri,·rl and ln11~ ----------------rnusdc. nwthod of gntting what you want. 10: Dcpriv,1 yourselfof food and S1>111Ptirrws ra!lf'cl "lobbying," smnotimns drink: Kill yourself quickly. I don't think callt\d, w.-11, a bribt•, t.his is prnlmhly the this will get soml!one t.o do what you most pfli•ctiw way to gnt what you want want them to do. Unless you want them Salt 1,akt• City got the Olympics this way. to lnavn the room or plan a funeral, in 
2: l>qniw otlwrs of food and drink: which rnscs it's highly effoctive, Culling off nutrilion supply. This goes 11: Ocpriv<" yoursdfol'drink: ba,·k lo nwdit•val days when opposing D,!hydrate yourself. I don't really know armins would sw-rmnHI t!w manor that what this will accomplish, oxcepl to t.hPy Wf'l'f' allacking and figurn that ii" make you really thirsty. Llwv didri'l IPl food and drink in. that­12: Deprive yourself' or food: A slow. srni'111•r rir Iatt•r -tlw p1•oplP inside would 1minful misery whose only assets arn ... lmv1' to Pitlwr surn·ndnr or light in a wdl ... okay, so maybe them aren't any \\'f'HkPnf'(I slati•. asst\L'l. Unlr.ss you consider being on ·1v 
:?: c;ivc ollwrs somt'fhing to drink: CPL in front ol' much of tlw country looking tllf'm drunk. This makt1s pnrsuasion like the first syllable ol' lhn word "assol" 1m11·h PasiPr. Kind of a modiliPd .J(1di as an asset, it nmlly has no assrlq_ It has Mind Trick. if you will. This dates back to absolutely no effnct on someone else thP originnl d,tys ol'thf' SYH w!wn indi­excnpt maybe to confuse him. viduals -mostly males -wen' looking for So it. turns out that they chose tlrn ways to gt'L past that whole "actually option that is least elfoctiw1 for their wanting to bf' with you" part of the rr.la­objnctivc. Unless, ofcoursr., their objec­tionship. tive was to gel on TV, in which case they 
:{-and-a-hall': Thrt•aten lo givn a third chose the most effective. (For an assess­party sorm~lhing Lo drink. Personally. I ment of'how to get on TV.just tum the would suggPsl thn•alPning to supply list upside down. Starving yourself' goes Zahm I !all with all-Lhey-mn-drink to number one, bribns go to number 12 -Madllog 20/'lO and Jim B1mm. (And you never tell about bribns, right'!) somP wirni for seclion :-JA.) Thn morn But if someone wants to get on 'JV, important part is for the lhreal11ner lo there arc much ea<;ier wavs. For thrnab•n to unlea..sh the resulting drunk-instance, onn could boat tl;emsclves with 1111 louls on the thnHtl1mee's properly. a titanium b,L'ieball bat until they were This would most likelv rnsull in thn semi-conscious, struggle over to a water­Zahm boys pillaging, imrning, stealing a slide full ol' razor blades, slide naked slmnp, stopping to pnm1\ the hndwis, dri­down the slide into a vat ofrubbing alco­ving golf earl'> through family gathnrings, hol, and have a friend continue blud­siMling any paintings of Marion Burke gtioning their skull vvith the titanium Knott. that happrn1 to hn laying around, baseball bat until they were dead. Pretty killing a duck by twisting ils neck. giving sum to get you on TV. ancl it kills you just Lim pirturn of Marinn Burke Knott back, tho same ,L'> starving. Only more quickly. giving Urn sheep a cigarnltP, and cooking The Board orTrustees could -and tlw duck to eat hinv1ier with dining hall should -adopt a modified form of the spicns. (Not nncessarily in that order.l non-discrimination clause that allows the Oh, yt!ah, all whilf' beating our frnshm('n University to maintain iL.; Catholic char­with I 5-pound carp along the way. Not acter while nnsuring that no one will bn that any of this has h1\1'll donn in Zahm. discriminated against because of an 
4: (;iw yonrself'som<'lhing to drink: inborn trait -a trait that our God gave 
a.k.a. "Gt\Uing Drunk." This h,L'i brnm a them. If written correctly. the University favorilt• ol' rnllegn kids since about the could maintain the right to discriminate Cardm1 of liclen. The morn modern ver­against any anti-Catholic behavior. But sion usually just ends up in the Hnctor's they should do it because it's the right room, Student Affairs, or th11 South Bend thing to do, not because some people County Courthous,i. don't want to eat. 
5: Deprive ollmrs ol' their ability lo Please look at thL-, topic for yourself drink: Primarily llS(\d on collugn campus­and, as di!licu!t as it is, try not to be t'S. Think about it: If' Bill Kirk said wn turnnd off by the incredibly irritating tac­t'.oukln't drink until Thn Dmnn shined tics orsome pushing for this clause. lik,, thn top oftlm Chrysler huilrling, wn'd My suggestion for next year: Adopt the bn fighting 1mch otlwr to got up th,we clause, but put olT the decision for ab()llt and spit-shitw llw lhing. two weeks until those starving are forced 
6: (;iw vourselfl'ood and drink: to either eat or. well. starve. Kind of a Nourish11{c11L. This will keep you strong natural selccti(ln for idiocy. and abhi to light !ilr what you bdiovo in. I'll do my part next year by sending a I'd rattmr fight Ally Mclfoal than Kory handle ol'Jim lfoam to earh of the mmn­MillDI". bcrs of1he Board of'Truslees the week 
7: l>eprivo others of food: Starve 'om. before the vote. And throatoning lo send Undt>rrallicL Most lisL<.; havn it at number a few cases lo Zahm. IO or 11 lmcause tlwy think that taking food away must b,\ us!ld in conjunction Spencer StPjko is a senior American with taking drink away. But those pun­Studies major, /IL-, column runs every dils for1,wt that this allows for onn to liv11 other Friday. lcmgnr in hungry misery -giving r1xtfmd­The 11iews expressed in this column are t\d opportunity for persuasion. those ofthe author and noc necessarily 
8: (;iv<" otlmrs food: Ft1ed them. A those ofTIZP Obsen,er, 
¦ CALIFORNIA DREAMIN' 
American Troops on Their Way to the Balkans 
Actually this headline isn't quite true yet, The most anxious commentators worry but barring a possible deadline extfmsion that this localiznd ethnic conflict. could, in or a huge political developmlml, American a worst case scrnario, mirror thn narly Lroops will either be on Lheir way to twentieth century with a world war rising Kosovo or flying in air raids over Serbia by out of th1~ Balkans. With thnsn humanitari­thn encl of the day, an and political concnrns in mind, talks 
Yet, in this news bubble we all live in no have bnen held in Franco to try to spcurn a one seems to know much about this. In the peacn. interest ol' kr,eping Notre Dame students What do we want'? informed, and most importantly out of The Unitnd States and NATO want Lo mspect for American troops who will likely rnach a col'npromisti. Thny don't want full soon be risking their lives on fornign soil -independence for Kosovo: !'or f"car that I am going to do ===========~~~=~~~ other nthnic s!lcnssionisL., 
my best to give a might gain inspiration litilc background from this victory and
B d 

on what is going ran on attempt t.o nmulatn it.. on in Kosovo. If Instead, tlw United States our countrymen and its allies aw trying to are probably persuad1! hoth lht\
w,•11 •1ams 

!wading to another Serbians and the KIA to country, putting accept a restoration of their lives at risk, I Kosovo's autonomy within figure we at least ----------------Yugoslavia. If this com-ought to know why. promise is acccpt(1d tl11m a sizable NATO 
Kosovo: What's the problem? ground contingent would movo in to keep 
Kosovo is oOidally a Serbian province, the peace. located on the Balkan Peninsula. llownver, Unfortunately. Serbian Prnsident it nnjoyed constitutional autonomy until Milsovoc seriously objects lo a NATO prns­1989. whfm Serbian President Slobodan enco within his country. Simultaneously, Milosevic rnvoked that autonomy in keep-however, NATO doesn't foel that it is possi­ing >\;th his "Greater Serbia" campaign. ble for thn pnacn lo work without an out-Many Scrbian's feel that that Kosovo is side military prnsnncc. IfSnrbia dons not part oftheir ethnic homeland. and it was agree to this compromise and NATO pres-the site of a important historical defeat by cnce, NATO has plmlgnd air strikes on thn Ottoman Empire in the 14th century, Snrbia -tomorrow. adding to ilq cultural significancn. What is at stake for our troops'? 
Kosovo doesn't share this sentiment.. The If an air strike is laundwd to f'orcf' a province is <JO% ethnic Albanian. whiln prmcn agrnmnnnt. then not only will Snrbia is primarily a Slavic nation. There American pilots be in jeopardy but tlrn are also significant religious differences. subsnquent disorder, which tlw Kl.A would The ethnic Albanians tm1d to be Moslem, likely takn advantage or. will makn things while Serbia is mostly made up of mem-morn difficult and dangerous for troops bers of the Eastern Orthodox Church. Due involved in the l'uturn pnarnkPeping mis-to this ethnic and political tension. and sion. Even in the b11st case scenario, whnrn Milsovec's power grab, this 90-pnrcent Serbia agrees to the compromise and ethnic Albanian population declared about 5,000 Amnrican troops head to kPep Kosovo's independence from Serbia in the peace in Kosovo, thern are still inhPr­1992. ent dangers. Unfortunately, there doesn't 
Not long aft.er this declaration the senm to be any real way out for the Kosovo Liberation Army (Kl.Al began world's only superpower. Europn will not guerilla actions against Serbia. Serbia act without us. (Although congressional finally countered this action earlier this support for this action is still questionable.) year. Serbian army and police regained This brings us to a broader question. control of most of Kosovo, and they did so I low are we, the world's only superpownr, brutally. Hundreds were killed, including to approach conflicts that contain no vital civilians. I Iomes and entirr. villages were national interest? It is not an easy qunstion destroyed. Approximately 250,000 people to answer -and it is onn that we havn wern left homeless. The wide-scale mur-answered very poorly on many recnnt der of civilians has shocked the world and occasions. We as a nation need to st.art raised questions of war crimes. Tens of thinking about how wo can USP our privi­thousands of homeless Albanian reiugPes legt)d position in thn world responsibly, are hiding in the woods of Kosovo, spark-This responsibility touches on the promo­ing fears of a humanitarian disaster. tion of peacP, nconomic and social justic11 
What docs the United States have to do and human rights throughout the world. with this? Tho question is not if. but how. 
A lot. First of all, there am humanitarian One important U.'ipect of this question concerns. The displacement of hundreds of involves the utilization of" American troops. thousands of ethnic Albanians from their Our government's chief obligation is to the homes could potentially lead to a conti-American pnople, whom it has b,1nn 11lnct­nent-wide refugee problem. This is cou-Pd to serve. ff it can avoid s1mding som11 of' pied with the massacre of civilians perpe-those people into prncarious situations it trated by Serbian forces. should do so. Amnrican soldiers, as brave 
Moreover. there is potential for this war-as they arn, should not bn sont to possible fani t.o spill out not only into the rest of the death if' it is not. absolutely vital for them to Balkans. but into other areas of the world go. This moans that countries in EuropP, as well. There is the obvious possibility of' which are generally militarily and econom-Albania, the poorest country in Europe, ically strong, needs to start handling intervening on the side of the ethnic affairs on their own continent. While Albanians in Kosovo. Macedonia is another America should be a force for peace and potential problem area. This country is justice in the world. it should not bf\ the split in its allegiance, with its 25 percent world's policeman. The livos of our sol-Albanian population supporting those in diers arn too prm:ious for that. Kosovo and its Macedonian majority sup-So, say a prayer today for the many suf­porUng the Serbs. The Unitnd Nations has fering in Sllrhia and espnr.ially Kosovo. If positioned troops along the the bombing starts, prny for tlm American Macedonian/Serbian border in an attempt and NATO troops as wnll. Finally, bn pray-to preclude expansion of the combat into ing for thn leaders involved and a peacnful this country. Many fear that if the warfare resolution to this conflict. This is one inlen­spilled into Albania and Macedonia the I.ion that would serve nveryonc's intnrestc;. region could explode, with nations like Greece, Turkey and Bulgaria becoming Brandon Williams is a senior history involved. Outside of the Balkans thnre is and philosophy major. I!is column runs the possibility of Russian intervention on e11ery other Thursday ... or Friday. behalf of its traditional Slavic allies, the The views expressed in this column are Serbs. Even Arabic countries as distant as those of the author and not necessarily Iran, who share Islam with the ethnic those ofThe Observer. Albanians. could end up a part of'thc fray. 


O
THE 
-----------------Friday, February 19, 1999
BSERVER 

, ... , 
.' 
-


¦ 8ccnc ASKS.,, 
What are you giving up for 
Lent? 
"I'm giving up lying to 1nyself that I'm actually going to give something up." 
Jack Lenzo Freshman O'Neill Hall 
"Coffee." Tiffany Roman Freshman Welsh Hall 



"Meat. It'll be hard I'm the son of a butcher." 
Heriberto Rodriguez Sophomore 
Knott 

"Smoking." Antonio Fonseca Junior O'Neill Hall 


"Candy." Mary Nakada First Year Graduate Student 

ALITT T N 





By SARAH DYI.AG 
Scene Editor 
Perhaps you do not need a reminder. 
Perhaps you only just rPmembered while 
searching through the dining hall for some 
kind or meat product and finding none. 
Maybe you realized when someone asked 
what you decided to give up this year. Or 
maybe this is the first you have actually 
thought about it. 
For Catholics and all members of 
Christian religions, however. it cannot be 
ignored -the season of Lent has begun in 
the church. With this past week's celebra­
tion of Ash Wednesday, Christians every­
where have begun to prepare to celebrate 
the Easter Sunday resurrection of Jesus 
Christ. 
How much do you know about the sea­
son, its history and its traditions? Why 40 
days? Why give something up? A little 
research reveals a lot of the answers ... 
The word lent. which means lengthen, 
comes from the time in the spring when the 
days get longer -the time of the year dur­
ing which Lent and Easter fall. A time of 
spiritual development and remembrance, 
the season of Lfmt officially begins each year 
on Ash Wedncsdav. Since Ash Wcdnesdav 
marks the beginni~g of a season of fasting 
and sacrificing, however, many people also 
choose to "celebrate" Shrove Tur~sday, the 
Tuesday before Ash Wednesday, with feast­
ing and celebration. llistorically. this cele­
bration stems from the idea of using up all 
of the fats in a household before Lent 
begins. The French call this celebration 
Mardi Gras. 
The ceremony of Ash Wednesday includes 
placing ashes on the fornhead as a sign of 
penitence. Ashes have traditionally been 
used to mark the mourning of one's own 
guilt or loss and thus are appropriate for the 
beginning of the season of Lent. In the 
Roman Catholic church, the ashes for Ash 
Wednesday come from the burned palm 
branches of the previous y_ear's Palm 
Sunday and are blessed before the Ash 
Wednesday mass. Catholics are required to 
abstain from eating meat on Ash 

WedmJsday and on all of the Fridays during Lent. 
Many Catholics also follow the custom or giving something up for Lent. This act of abstaining from something rnprnsents an effort by each individual to make his/her lifo better and offer each individual a chance to repent past sins. 
During the nrst century. Lent lasted only 40 hours. Thesn hours were spent fasting in remembrance ol' the 40 hours that Christ spent in the tomb. The 40 hours of' fasting ended with an Easter service at 3 a.m. In the third century, however, Lent was length­ened to the six days callml lloly Week. 
Around 800 A.O. LPnt became a 40 day season corresponding to Christ's 40 days in the wilderness. Those 40 days do not include thP. six Sundays during LP.nt, thus the number of' actual days bctwe1m Ash Wednesday and Easter Sunday is 46. 
The date or Ash Wcdnosday, the beginning or Lent, is calculated by counting backwards 46 days from Easter Sunday. EaslPr Sunday is a moveable holiday and may fall betwcm1 March 22 and April 25. The last six days before Easter are always called l!oly Week and represent the time when Christians remember Christ's activities from Palm Sunday, the Sunday of the Passion, to llis death on Good Friday and I lis resurrection on Easter Sunday. 
Palm Sunday, the Sunday that begins IInly Weck, remembers Christ's triumphal nntry into Jerusalem, when crowds or pPoplP laid their cloaks and palm branciws on tlw street in front of him. During tlrn Palm Sunday mass, many churches distribute the palms that will be blessed and burned for the following year's Ash Wednesday. 
The Friday of' I loly Week is called Good Friday, when Christians remember the cru­cifixion of Christ. I loly Week and the season of L1mt end with the celebration of Christ's resurrection on Easter Sunday. 
The season or Lnnt is much morn than a time to give up something trivial and to abstain from meat on Fridays. For Christians. it. is a special limn of celnbralion and preparation, one of' the most important parts of the church calendar. 
Lenten Mass Schedule 
at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
University Saturday and Sunday Masses 
• 
sacred Heart crypt Saturday Mass 

• 
Basilica Saturday Vigil Mass Sunday Organ Prelude Sunday Mass Sunday Mass 


University Daily Masses 
• 
Sacred Heart Crypt Monday-Friday Mass 

• 
Basilica Monday-Friday Mass Monday-Friday Mass 


11 :30 a.m. 
5p.m. 
9:30 a.m. 10 a.m. 11 :45 a.m. 
12:10 p.m. 
11 :30 a.m. 
5:15 p.m. 


O
THE

hiday, h,:bruary l'J, 1999-----­
BSERVER 

¦ 8cene THROUGH OUR EYES 
Giving something up 
By SARAH DYLAG 
Sc,;nc Editor 

There are a lot of standard options. No more chocolate. No more coffee. No more snacking aftor 9 p.m. And yet, smnehow, none of' the options seemed right this year. 
l>eople asked, "What are you giving up for Le11t?" 
And I had no reply. 
All of the standard options somehow seemed selfish to me • not a true sacrifice, but an excuse for people to improve their appearance or eating habits. Why is it that people choose to giYe up things like dessert or candy or vow to go to the gyrn instead of sitting in front of the television? Do they really hope to become better people by doing so? 
Maybe they do, but as I considered Urn options for me, none of them seemed right. 
So I made the command decision -maybe it's not the right idea, but somehow. it seems right to me. I am not giving anything up this year. 
No more half-hearted attempts to quit drink­ing coffee every morning. No more hopeless promises to myself that this will b,i the year that I make it all the way to Easter Sunday without my favorite food. No more changing the "rules" throughout the season of Lent until giving something up means giving it up on odd days of the week when the sun forgets to rise. Or something like that. 
What I propose, instead, is to add something to my life. A little more sunshine. A few morn smiles. A little more compassion. Maybe it sounds clrnesy or like a cop-out to the chal­lenge of giving something up, but I truly hope to take this season of Lent to become a better person in a small way. 
I want to remind myself 1wcry morning how lucky I am to be here. I want to look at tbo friends and family around me and remember how important they am in my life. I want to tako 10 seconds to recount my blessings before I open my mouth to complain or critirize or argue. I want. to give to other people back a lit­tle of the joy they bring to my life. 
Perhaps this idea does not seem to corre­spond with the idea orsacrifice and rep,mt.1mc!' that the season of Lent represents. But, in some ways, I really believe that it does. Ilere, beneath the glow of the golden dome. I often find myself too busy to appreciate tho bnautif'ul people around me. ln a rush to "get stuff done." J take for granted their friendship, com­passion and support. I forget sometimns about the time they sacrifice to listen to me, to laugh with me and to stand by my side. 
If you think about it, maybe I really am giv­ing something up. I'm giving up being too busy to say thank you to the people who are impor­tant to me. And I'm taking the time to be there for thnm because it's poople and f'rimulship who fill life with wonderful moments and I regret that sometimes that slips my mind. 
So, to all of you -I hope you know who you are• thank you. 
The vieu•s expressed in this column are those oflite aullior cmd not rtf1ccssarily lltose q{ T/z(' Observer. 
.-.. 
..... 


page 14 The Observer• SPORTS Friday, February 19, 1999 
¦ MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
The Rocket lands in Big Apple, Wells heads to Toronto 
make the '.'Jew York Yankees tin­bars going out of business in New Young Awards with the Blue Jays, came from New Yorkers. season like 1998. He was a ker with perfPction. York," Yankees pitcher David he wanted out after the team's "I HATE the trade," shout­constant irritant to managered one caller to WFAN, the
Evt>n if it mPant giving up David Cone said. "He almost became a Belgium owner. Interbrew SA. Joe Torre. And. turning 36 \\"rlls. cult hero overnight. Last year decided not to compete with base­city's all-sports radio station. in May, was not in tiptop En'n if it nwant disrupting the with the perfect game, he made ball's big spenders this year. "Why do we need him'?" condition. rrrord-srtting tram that won 125 his mark in Yankees history. lie Houston and Texas were still demanded another. Clemens. who turns :H in OK, try to forget that Roger
ganws last year and the World can be proud of that. He won't be bidding for Clemens this week. August, is one of the best­Snit's. forgotten." but t.hc deal with the Yankees Clemens just won his record conditioned athl<~tes in 
EspN·ially il' it meant getting the But even Cone knew some fans came together after Toronto fifth Cy Young Award. Or sports. A power pitcher, only five-time Cy Young award would surely be upset. dropped its insistence on obtain­that he's tho first pitcher to thern's always a risk he winner in the history of baseball. "I'm sure there are mixed emo­ing 21-year-old shnrtstop Alfonso lead the league in wins, ERA could blow out his arm 
"I always coveted Roger tions among the fans," he said. Soriano. and strikeouts for two throwing a 97 mph heater. Clemens for the Yankees and New "IBut] as soon as Rocket throws The deal was announced as straight years since Lefty Clemens also brings with York." owner George his f'irst 15-strikeout night at Wells and his Yankee teammates Grove in 1930-31. Or that him a competitivfi nature 
he's the nnxt Nolan Ryan, a
Steinbrenner said Thursday after Yankee Stadium. people will be were just settling into their 7 1/2-that rivals the one that obtaining Clemens from Toronto oohing and wowing, saying, week spring stay at Legends Field. physical marvel who seemed burns inside the Boss. And in r.xchangr. !'or Wells, reliever 'What a catch1"' Until Thursday, the Yankees had to get bettP.r with age. that attracted Steinbrenner Graeme Llnyd and second base­Clemens was as speechless as retained 24 of the 25 players who Because the trade that even morn than the stats. man llomPr Bush. Wells, for different reasons. helped them win a second World sent Clemens from the "I met my match in a guy 
"We've got a group of warriors "They are the champions," said Series title in three seasons, drop­Toronto Blue Javs to the who wants to win," Clemons here and we're getting a very big the 36-year-old right-hander, who ping only outfielder Tim Haines. World Series chainpions is said. "This guy, he settles for warrior," Steinbrenner said. "He's has never won a Series ring. "I "This is a tremendous thing -not about The Rocket. Mavbe nothing less. I enjoy that." 
it is outside New Yo.rk.
a monster. He's just. 'Give me the just want to slide in the side door hopefully to get back again. Not For all he's done in his ball' -a ma! competitor." and go to work with these guys that we wouldn't have that chance where most fans think it's earner, all Clemens wants unfair that the fat-cat
As for Wells, he left the and hopefully fit right in." anyway. But it might improve our now is a championship ring. Yankees' first day of' spring train­So far, he's hitting it off just line chances," Steinbrenner said. Yankees were able to land Clemens says he's always ing in tears after speaking with with "Mr. Steinbrenner." Wells, 124-84 in his career with him. admired the Yankees -he Steinbrenner and manager Joe "I met my match in a guy who a 3.96 ERA, returns to his first In New York, it"s about often scoops a handl'ul of dirt Torre. wants to win." Clemens said. major league team. He was with David Wells. from the mound after pitch­''I'm a little emotional right "This guy, he settles for nothing the Blue Jays from 1987-92 He was their vcrv own, ing in the !louse that Huth now," Wells said. "Give me a cou­less. 1 enjoy that." before he was released and highly imperfect· Mr. Built. Yr,t hr, wasn't afraid to ple days. It's a little tough right Clemens is owed $16.1 million moved on to Detroit, Cincinnati, Perfection. touch off a beanbrmvl with now. during the final two years of his Baltimore and the Yankees -I le was the guy who once them last September by 
New York and Toronto actually contract and has the right to who signed him only after losing wore a Babe Huth cap to the drilling Scott Brosius in llw completed the deal late demand a trade following this to Toronto in the bidding for mound. The tattooed back. Wednesday night. but delayed the season's World Series. However, Clemens. brawler who threatened to It might take Yankees fans announcement to tell Wells in he doesn't expect that to become "I think he's matured somewhat knock out George time to appreciate that, and person. an issue. since he was with us the last Steinbrenner. The ace who they may never revel in his 
"Boomer," as the 35-vear-old While stressing that he appreci­time," Blue Jays general manager embraced Yankees tradition accomplishments as they did left-hander is known th;oughout ates a second chance to join New Gord Ash said. "His experiences by day. The big boy with the with Wells. Breaking up one the Bronx and beyond, has been York, Clemens didn't second­in other situations have made him big gut who got toasted on of the greatest teams in the toast of New York since pitch­guess choosing Toronto over the a better pitcher. He's a smarter the town by night. baseball history is never fun ing a perfect game against Yankees in 1996. pitcher now." Part of the pinstriped fab­-remember how long it 
ric, for sure.

Minnesota at Yankee Stadium on "It worked out for me," he said. For the Yankees. the trade takes took for New Yorkers to May 17. He's coming off the best "It didn't work out for the team. away two left-handers, tradition­To his fans, Boomer was a warm up to Tino Martinez season of his career, 18-4 with a We didn't win. That's the bottom ally the key to success in Yankee role model. after he replaced Don 
3.49 ERA. line." Stadium. But New York didn't lose Clemens is better, no Mattingly. Mr. Perfection was also Mr. With a 233-124 career record, prized prospects. doubt. A first-ballot Hall of But thB Yankees made a Personality, as far as Yankee fans Clemens went 20-6 last season "I just didn't want to give up all Farner, still one of the best steal of a deal with that one. were concerned. They loved his while leading the American our young talent. It's different pitchers in history. And if it's all not clear loud mouth and his loud music -League in ERA (2.65), strikeouts than the old days," Steinbrenner But Wells, coming off the right now, it will be by Oct. Metallica was a favorite. They (271) and tying for the lead in said. "Twenty years ago I might best season of his life, was 23. Chances arc, that's the loved his beer belly and the way wins. He led in all three cate­have said: 'I don't care who we one of them, someone a fan night he'll walk to the 
he loved The Babe. gories in 1997. give up.' f'm smarter now -a lit­from the Bronx sitting in the mound to start Game 1 of .-.... "There's going to be a lot of Though he won consecutive Cy tle bit smarter." upper deck could identify the World Series. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. IO 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid.
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the righ1 IO edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
NOTICES 

Spring Break Bahamas Party Cruise!5Nights $279!1ncludes Meals & Free Parties!Awesome Beaches.Nightfife!Departs From Florida!Cancun & Jamaica $399' springbreaktravel.com 
1-800-678·6386 
Spring Break Panama City $129!Boardwalk Room w/Kitchen Next To Clubs!7 Parties-Free Drinks!Daytona $1491South Beach $1291Cocoa Beach $149! springb reaktra veI.com 
1-800·678-6386 
How Green is Green? 
Work in Ireland on a Student Work Abroad Program and find out! 
Missing... If anyone has found a Superman Necklace. please return 
FOR RENT 
to 317 Fisher. Reward 
LOST: Notre Dame Class Ring. Description; Aquamarine stone with name engraved on the inside of the ring. lnitials-PML. Call 273-9813. 
Lost: Spiderman Folder and assign­ment notebook, If found please call 0992. 
WANTED 
CRUISE SHIP EMPLOYMENT Workers earn up to $2,000+/month (wlttps & bene­hls).World TravellLand-Tour Jobs up to $5.000-$7,000/summer.Ask us how! 517-336-4235 Ext.C55842 
WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6 BEDROOM STARTING $185 
MONTH/PERSON 232-2595 

NICE HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND 
8.6.4,3,BEDROOM 2773097 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 

FOR SALE 
219-291-7153 

NEW Rates Phone Cards 5 & 6 BDRM HOMES. 1999/2000, 282 min.$20 call 258-4805 SUMMER OR NOW.NEAR CAM· PUS.FURN.GILLIS PROPER-Beautiful brass bed.queen size.with TIES.2726551 orthopedic mattress set and deluxe FLORIDA SPRING BREAK 
SANDPIPER-BEACON BEACH RESORT PANAMA CITY BEACH FLORIDA FROM $159 PER PER­SON 3 POOLS 1 INDOOR POOULAZY RIVER RIDE HUGE BEACHSIDE HOTTUB SUITES UP TO 10 PED· PLE FREE INFO 1-800-488-8828 WWW.SANDPIPERBEACON.COM 
Room $275/mo in large house 2 miles from ND. 246-0704 
Sanguinis est robonus 

Vulneris est cadeleris Latin est vehemens Fax it fast at THE COPY SHOP in 
PERSONAL 
Sect amamus le LaFortune. FAX Sending and Intensive Latin Class Receiving : 631-FAX 1 I know I spelled almost every word 
HAC-wrong and my delensions are awfulQuite tolerable. 

but it is 3:40 a.m. dear toad, thanx for the roses! 
KM-You are pretty slick, maybe you Need a job? Student Activities is should go into naval intelligence

accepting applications for Sound Techs & Building Set Up Crew. A(2(21~ at 315 LaFortune. Zakas BRIAN, MAC and KYLE -Thanks, I think I am a pawn in your childish 
you guys -you bore an extra load games. 
this past year and you've been invaluable to me. I love a.II three of Happy B-day Katie you and I lack the words to really 
Defending 
champs land Cy Young 
.

winner 
Associa1ed Press 
TAMPA. Fla. Hoger Clemens was enough to 

~.. The Trade 
~ 

Graeme Lloyd Homer Bush 
Roger Clemens 

David Wells 
with -a regular guy.Fans mourn And there aren't many like 
Then there's this stat that

the loss of him. 
his supporters point to: Wells is 8-1 is 10 careerhometown postseason starts: Clnmm1s is 
1-2 in nine. 
Truth is, the Yankens

hero Wells 
didn't roally need citlrnr omi 

of them to make it back to Associated Pre.s the playoffs this season. 
Privately, tlrn Yankees 

'.\IEW YORK were worried that Wolls 
The loudest complaints might never have another 
frame.New,never used.still in p!as· express my gratitude. -HAC Call 1-888-Council and ask for Local Attorney/CPA looking for HOUSE OR ROOMS AVAIL tic.$235 Andy-Tom. undergraduate/graduate to work NOW.272-6551 219-862-2082. And tinally, to the ENTIRE 
Rice is nice. so is salt part-time with flexible hours. Observer staff of 1998-99 .... You've LoveCANCUN. BAHAMAS Interested persons should call 273· House for Rent. FOR SALE· DUPLEX been a joy, and getting to work with 
Givas and Hoser

PANAMA CITY 2118 to set up an interview. Two Blocks from campus. North Shore Triangle (walking dis-each of you made my EiC experi-Get FREE PARTIES with USA Available in June for Summer. lance to Notre Dame) 132 ence so much richer. Good luck. Spring Break! August for fall. Dishwasher, Marquette Blvd, Each unit has 2 Love, Heather. HAG-­Call 1-888-777-4642 to book BOYS & GIRLS CLUB NEEDS Washer/Dryer, full basement. large bedrooms, one full bath, living room MK, thanks for the flowers. I will 
Thanks for the lead ... I hope I can your trip today! VOLUNTEER B-BALL backyard, and off street parking. with fireplace. Well maintained'!! miss you so much! -HC 
follow. mk:·)

COACHES! MONITORED SECURITY SYSTEM Showings by appointment only, Season runs 3-99 to 5-7-99 INCLUDED!! KITCHEN BEING CALL: Pam DeCola, Cressy & 
What's up to Prof. Emory-Call 232-2048 lor more info REMODELED THIS SPRING! CAIi Everett Realty at 288-1739 or 235· HAG has left the builiding. 
-AB

ILOST & FOUNDI 
289-4712 3993. 
----·---------~------.....-----------------------..... --------...---------------­
friday, F-ehruary 19, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 15 
__:__---------------------------------=-.------------------------=-__;:_-­
• NHL 
Lmnieux·s legal representa­tn clean up the Penguins' debt­tives !mid another in a scri!'s of' ladon balance sheet and supplyl'ITTSBUHGI I 
ongoing ml1etings Thursday short-term working capital.Mario Lnminux is stnpping up with NIii. Inga( counsel in Nr.w Penguins co-owner Hogerhis dl'orts to ass(•m blli an own­
York as tho six-limo league Marino's lawyer, Harry Manion, (irship group that would case rushes to
scoring chamµion last week dismissed Lemicux's 
1.lw l'illsbuq~h 1'1mguins uul of 
gal1H1r a viable ownership bid as being unrnalistic, but 
hankruph:y, mmiting with Cov. 
group by lato March. Lemieux advisor Chuck 
Tom Hidgi~ and NIii. ollidals to 
l.mnieux must raise at least Grncnberg said Thursday, "I rnlly support for his bid. $40 million and possibly morn think we havo a very good 
Not1-e Da"1e Pt-elaw Sodd"t MeetiHS 
February ~~, 1.999 
(Monday) 
7:oo -9:oo P.M. 
1.~9 DeBartolo HaD 

Lemieux continues effort to purchase Pens 
chance." 
Lemieux has appeared only 
infrequently in public since 
rntiring aft!'r the 1996-97 sea­
son. bui he has taken a far 
more visible and active role in 
assembling investors than 
might previously have been 
imagined. 
NHL commissioner Gary Bettman has not frndorsed Lemim1x's bid. but is !'ncourag­ing it and has met al least once with Lemieux. 
U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Bernard Markovitz will begin next month to consider offers to rcorganiz!' tho Penguins' debt, estimated at more than $12 5 million -including $80 million owed unsccurnd creditors such as Lemieux. 
l,Pmieux is due $26.2 million in deferred compensation. but would exchange much of that debt for equity in any owner­ship group. 
Lemieux apparently will sub­
mit a plan even if he has not yet 
raisnd tlrn ncc11ssary 1\quity. 
"I think that in u month's lime, if' we haven't raisml it all, we'll be cl.ose. Wo'vn mado enormous progress," GrnenhPrg said. 
Neitlrnr Lemieux nor Gre11nherg has disclosed any possible investors, but Lemieux apparnntly has recnived scnnn firm commitments. One possible partnPr: golfing buddy Dan Marino, Urn Miami Dolphins quarterback and former Pitt star who ronsiclnrnd buying into Urn Pirates thrnc years ago. 
Rognr Marino. who angnred Lomieux last ynar by trying to renngotiate his deferred com­prmsation. has offered to work with Lemieux. But Lomieux said he will not partner with Marino, ... who has lost an nstimated $37.5 million since buying into the Penguins two years ago. 


ihe IJJ011tl Converues at Notte Dame 
i11;, wee!, uf 
iasllfon, film, food, literature, sports, talent 
~---~----~-------------­

International Student Affairs 204 LaFortune Center 219-631-3824 

02/19 Fri. Rolfs Sports Center 7:00pm SPORTS TOURNAMENT Drop In Badminton & Table 1 ennis Indoor Soccer 
02/23 Tues. New Hammes Book Store 3:30pm INTERNATIONAL BOOK FAIi' READINGS 
FOREIGN FILM FESTIVAL 02/22 Mon. Cushing Auditorium 8:00pm Once Upon a Time in Chino 02/23Tues. Cushing Auditorium 8:00pm IL Postino 02/24 Wed. Montgomery Theater 8:00pm House of Angels 
02/25 Thurs. Location tbd 8:00pm DOCUMENTARY ON ARAB C JLTl.,J :E 
The Message 
02/22-02/23 Mon.-Tues. Cushing Auditorium 7:00pm ND UNITED MUSLIM ASSOCl .\TION 02/26 Fri Montgomery Theater 2:00pm BOOK SALE Ctr For Social Concerns 6:00pm 
02/26 Fri. Montgomery Theater 3:00pm LECTURE-Democracy and H, iman J'.1ghts in Islam-Dr. Assad Bussool 
02/26 Fri. Ctr for Social Concerns 6:00pm TASTE OF NATIONS • AN INTERNATIONAL SAMPL \IG 
02/27 Sat. LaFortune Ballroom 7:00pm INTERNATIONAL FESTIVAL TALENT & FASHION SHOW 
·--• ~---~ -------­
-· 

Sponso-r;d by-the Asian1-;;~~ation~l S~~iety, Chinese Frienchhip Asso~i~ti~~,I~dia Assol iatio11 of Notre Dame International Student Organization, Muslim Students Assoc1atton, Notre D.11 k Ur· ted Muslim Ass~ciation, and the Office of International Student Affairs. 
··~-------. 

¦ NFL 
Tight end Brady jets to Jaguars for $14.4 million 
Tho Jaguars still have $3.2 mil­feels he'll give the Jaguars a first moves was to bring lion left under the cap and are throwing option down the mid­Mitchell to tho Jaguars in a expected to pursue linebackers dle of the field unlike any trade. and defensive linemen with the they've had. Ile caught l 6<i passes l'or money. "His confidence level is up. his 1,845 vards over four seasons, 
Brady's signing came as production is up," Coughlin includ(ng 38 for 363 yards last something of a surprise, consid­said. --He's got to continue to year. ering Jacksonville was expected develop in the passing game. Coughlin said lw would take 
to concentrate fully on a But I think his best football is the transition tag off Mitchell defense that finished 25th in vet to come." and allow him to test himselr in the league last year. · The signing moans the the frer.-agent market. 
Still, in Brady, they get a lifth­Jaguars have likely seen the "I love the kid and he's the year. 6-foot-6, 268-pound play­end of Pete Mitchell, onr. of thn kind of guy who it's vory, very er who Coughlin has liked since original Jaguars and always difficult to think about not hav­
scouting him during his senior considered as true a "Coughlin ing around," Coughlin said. year of college at Pfmn State. guy" as them was. "But we haVfl to move on with 
Coughlin thinks Grady's Before coming to Jacksonville, our system. That's what wo do frame is perfocl for the run­Coughlin coached the tight end here. We evaluat0 and go on blocking schemes he usl~s and at Boston College. One of his from there." 

Heard Any Good Rumors Lately? 
We've got one: "Turtle Creek is full for the 99-00 school year'" 
We have been receiving lots of phone calls from students who have heard that we are no longer accepting applications for the upcoming school year. We want to let everyone know 
TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS IS STILL ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR ALL STYLES OF APARTMENTS AND TOWNHOMES FOR THE 99-00 SCHOOL YEAR. 
So stop by the leasing office today and pick up your information and application packet before the rumor becomes reality! 
TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 
"THE STUDE~TS FIRST CHOICE IN on· CAMPUS HOUSING" 
272-8124 
"LIFE-TllANSFOHMING! " 
Sfephen Holden, lH! NEW Yolk TlMES 
"A CEtEHlt\TIO\ 01~ Hl'U\\ POTE!\TIAt 
THAT BIU:\GS AlUIENCES TO THEIi\ FEET:' 
Davfd Kehr, NY OAn.v NEWS 
Cinema at the Snite 
Fri. & Sat. 7:30 p.m. and 9:45 p.m. Presented by ND Film, Television, and Theatre www.nd.edu/-cothweb 


DON'T WEIGH YOUR SELF-ESTEEM: IT'S WHAT'S INSIDE THAT COUNTS 
EATING DISORDERS AWARENESS WEEK FEBRUARY 20-27, 1999 
_Do you have a lovr,,batc rclllliomhip wilb food7 _Doyou have negative feelings about your appearance? _Doyou feel UDCttWn about what 10 ea!, when 10 eat. and bow 10 eat modaately? _Doyou worry about• friend's behavior wilh food an<Vorcxeri:ise? 
Gain Knowledge Thu Weck By Autnding Ono or Moro ofThese Programs: 
Sunday, February 21, 1999: 
BODY LOATIUNG•••.BODY WVE, 2 PM & 6 PM 
2 PM. HESBURGH LIBRARY AUDITOlllUM, UNIVERSITT OF NOTRI! DAME 
6 PM, MOREAU CENlERA.,ITTUlIllF.AlRE, Sf. MARY'S CO!.llOll 
PllESENIEl> BY AN INDIANAPOLIS IllF.A'llU! IlWUPI!. AC. T. OUT ENSF.MBLI!. JllROUGH 
SCENES, MONOLOGUES AND MOVEMENTPIECES 1HEY WilJ.. FOCUS ON PREVENTION AND 
EDUCATION AND ADDRESS TitE ISSUES,FEE..INGS AND CIRCUMSTANCES BE.HIND ANORllXIA, 
BULIMIA. AND BING!! l!ATINO DISORDERS. TIIE TROVPI! OF MALB AND FEMALE ACTORS GEAR 11l1S PRODUCTION TO Born MEN AND WOMEN, AGES 12 AND 01.DFR, AND 1llBEN11RE ND AND SMC COMMUNITIES All INVITED TO ATIEND mHER l'HlR)RMANCE. 
Monday, February 22, 1999: 
THE PITFALLS OFRESTRlCilVE DIETING 7 -&P!d, ROOM 300, UNIVEllSITY COUNSliLINO O'.HTER. 3" FLOOR. H1!ALTH SF.IIVICES 
BUILDING 
PRfSl!NTl'.DBY ANNA IJHllAN, RrolS1ERED DIETlaANAND CONSUI.TANr10 TI1E UN!VEJtSrTY COUNSELINOc»nER.UM\'EI\SrrYOFNOTIU!DAMB. RESIWICHSUGOESTSTHATMANY PEOl'LI! WHOl!NI>UPIIEINO DW3NOSP.Dwmt EATINO DISORDERS STAATED OUT DIETINO. JP l!A11NOWEU ANl>l.OSINO Wl!IOHTIN ASAFl!ANDMODERATB WAY IS YOUR OOAL. ATIEND nus Sl:SSIONTO Ll!ARN THE.DlffEIIENCli! lll!TWEl!N Dll!TINO FOR 11lll SHORT-'llllU,,t AND l!ATINO lll!ALTifY fOll Lll'I!. 
1111m;da1, F~hrlllll'J l5, 1ffl: 
VF.GBTARlAN DININO STRATEOJES IN Tiill DINING HALLS '-6PM, DOOLEY ROOM, LAl'ORTUNB sruD1Wr CEffER 
PRESENtED BY JOCII! ANl'ONEUJ. NUl'llfflOfl AND SAFETY MANAOEI!. FOOD SERVICES 
UN!VEIISITY OPNOJJU!DAMB. MAXE SUILI! THATll'YOUR CllOICE IS TO Bl! A VEGETAIUAN 
TIV.T YOU 00 SO IN A WAYTIJATPROYlllfS YOUR TASlEBUDS WITH BmH SATISFACTION 
AND PROl'l!R NUrRmON. 
11US Wfl!IC'S ACl1VJ1l!3 AIU! BEINO CO-SPONSOIUiD BY Till! FOUOWINO Ol{OANJZATIONS· Coomeli"I Center, -Dame; C..-flaaC-,SI.May' ¦ Colkp; Rcolda!cc UC., NIMR 0-._· Savka, Noon: Dam.; Woma,', "-Ccacr,Noire Dome; Oraduolc Studool Ualoo, Noa,, .Dame; Sbldml Rcaldclw:a.Nonllomc;OcncbSIDdla,NoireO-: lllllllnder.,..,....s..ta,iO..-. NonDome. 
QUESTIONS77?7?1?'nm CALL ucc AT 631-7336 
Associated Press 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. 

A white, stretch limousine pulled up to Alltel Stadium early Thursday aflfirnoon. 
Ont of i.t climbt>d Kyle Brady, lhe newest member of th<' .lacksonville Jaguars and now the highi,st-paid tight t>nd in the 
NFL 
Thr. Jaguars signed Brady to a five-year, $14.4 million offer sheet earlier in the week. When his old team. the New York .Jets, said Wednesday they would not malch the prke for their transition player, it was time to secure the limo and 
break out the 
champagne in 
.Jacksonville. 
And so, 
BrctdY went 
from one AFC 
contender to 
another 
trading in Bill 
Parcells and 
New York for 
moni money 
and much 
better weath­
er. 
"Had this 
team not been 
in the running 
last vear, 1 
would.have thought twice about 
coming here," said Brady. who 
caught 30 passes for 315 yards 
and live touchdowns last season 
in his best year as a pro. 
"I wanted to put myself in a 

situation where if the .lets 
matched the offer, I'm happy, 

but if the Jets don·t match the offer, I'm in just as good a situ­ation." 
Including a $4 million signing bonus, Brady's contract aver­ages $2.88 million per season, just more than what Shannon Sharpe of the Denver Broncos makes. 
Brady got the big money thanks in part tu Jacksonville coach Tom Coughlin, who has marle the Jaguars one of the most aggressive teams each year in free agency. especially early in the signing period. 
Before Brady, the .Jaguars had signed dcfensivr, lineman Gary Walker to a five­year, $18 million deal and Carnell Lake to a four­year, $18 million contract. 
Jaguars senior vice president Michael l l uyghue said this is obvi­ously the time for the· .Jaguars ­who went 11-5 and won the AFC Central Iast sr.a ­son -to be 
aggressive. 
"It's clear what our goals are," he said. "We could have been 
more cautious and said let's bring back the team and try to win 11 or 12 games. But we've never been comfortable with that mentality." 
Brady's contract was struc­tured to count $1.3 million against the 1999 salary cap. 
QUICKC'AB 
233-6000 
"Ride Safe, Save Money!!!" 
Nl>11,.Miduana Regional Airport r ---';" -----, One Person $8, • I I More than l .. $5 each : ~· . : 

• ND11,..Downtown Area 
One Person $5, ~ : 
I · I
More than t. $2 each 
I ·•·• I I .... I

• ND11,.South Bend Restaurants 
I , I
One Person $5, 
I :JJ-6000 I
More than I , $2 each 
L---------..l 
...... ...

·---· --7 
page 17 I
hiday, February 19, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS I 
¦ WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Belles end long losing streak 
l\y MOLLY McVOY Sports Wmer 
Th!i Saint Mary's bask1ithall t1\am linislwd iL-; snason with a hang, m1ding: a long losing strnak hy lwating J\ndnrson University <>7 -62 in tlw last h111nn game of tlm snason. 
Forward C:harlotle J\lbrncht. in lwr last. honw gamo as a Saint Mary's lfollP, not only had a team high hut a cari•cr high of 24 points. 
"TIH\ tPam playnd wdl." said Alhn•cht. "Tlwy did a gnmt job snlting scr,H•ns and w•tting me tlH\ ball." 
In last Saturday's game, sopho­morf' forward Julil' Norman set a Saint Mary's singln-ganw scoring record with :{8 points. Norman again had a strong game on T1wsday with I<J points, which puts hnr as tho tnam lo,uhir in individual scoring. 
T!w Bnllns sHnm to havn finally put it all tognth1•r this w1iek. Thi\ young talnnt's i1wx1mril•nce that plaguml tlrn team all year was finally overcome by the wisdom and court awareness that thoy acquirnd as the season pro­gressed. 
Tim youthful energy of their freshmen was an assot to Saint Mary's on Tuesday, obvious by their enorgy and spirit. 
"Wo worknd hard and it paid off. Tho difference yesterday !Tuesday! was our intensity," said Norman. "Wo got all over the looso balls and that wa'i nml­Iy exciting." 
The Ikllcs pullnd out to an early 12-2 hrnd on somc smart shooting and tough defense. J\ndnrson came back to take a two point lnad going into half'­time. 
The Belles rcl'used to allow 
Anderson's first-half rally to dim 
tlmir enthusiasm. They came out 
in tlw second half playing tough, 
tight dcfonsc and kept it dose the 
m1liro half. 
Lead changes r.haracteriz!\d 
tho second half' a,; the close con­test raged on. 

"It was awesome," said Albrecht. "As a senior, it was the bost way to go out. There's no hotter way to go out than with a win on your own floor." 
Statistically, thri Brilles and Anderson were even, but turnovors provod to be the decid­ing factor. Saint Mary's only turned the ball over 13 times, nnarly doubled by Anderson's 
21. 

Thri Belles managed tn turn tlrnir turnover advantage into scorns. Tho Rnllns shot .377 from tlw noor . .417 l'rom behind thn thrmi-point line and .769 from the lino. 
The close games have been a problem for Saint Mary's all year, and most of their losses wern by small margins. The Bfllles had to start turning thfl close losses into wins, and against Anderson, the learn final­ly managod to pull out a victory in their fmal homesland of the season. 

A great-tasting deal that's easy to get hooked on. 
. '!'he delicious BK BIG FISII,. Value Meal. A crispy fish filer topped with trcsh lettuce and tall!,'}' tartar sauce plus medium fries and medium drink. 
$3.59 
The I Iuddlc -LaFortunc Student Center 
BURGER 
KING It just tastes better. 

i!:11998 Burger King Corporation. Burger King Corporation is the exclusive licensee or the registered BK BIG FISH and Bun Halves logo trademarks. 
¦ WOMEN'S TENNIS 
,,.... 

Servers struggle at indoor nationals 

The 16th-ranked Notre Dame women's tennis tea.m lost five of six singles and two of three doubles matches in a 7-2 Joss to top-ranked Florida in the first round of the USTA/ITA National Team Indoor Championships on Thursday at Wisconsin's Nielson Tennis Stadium. 
The Irish fall to 5-3 after 
NCAA singles finalist M .C. White 6-4, 0-6, 7-5. Florida's Whitney Laiho won her 2:frd consecutive dual singles match with a 6-2, 6-2 win ovM Michelle Dasso at. No. 1 sin• gles. 
The Gators won in straight sets at Nos. 3-6 singles as Florida's Jessica Lehnhoff clinched ttw win with a 6-4, 6­3 win ovHr Becky Varnum at No. 4 singles in a battle of two 
also los­freshmAn. ing 6-3 NOTRE DAME WILL PLAY H a I I to sec, teamed
EIGHTil•RANKED UCLA IN 
o n d -with Dasso rnrtked TIIE CONSOLATION ROUND to IMd the 
D·uk e 
FRJDAY.

just four d a y s 
ago, while the Gators improve to 6-0 and will take on Wake Forest in the quarterfinals on 
Friday. 
Notre Dame will play eighth­ranked UCLA in the consola­tjon round on Frida.y.at 9 a.m. The Bruins lost 5-3 to third· ranked Georgia in the first round. 
The defending NCAA cham­pions won their 33rd consecu­tive dual match in handing the Irish their third loss in three meetings with the Gators. Notre Dame's only singles win came at No. 2 singles wher,i senfor two-time all-American Jennifer Hall outlasted 1997 
Irish to 
their sec­

ond point of tho match. The 22nd-ranked Irish pair beat Florida's sixth­ranked team of Lehnhoff and Stephanie Nickitas 8-6 at No. 1 doubles. The Gators won 8·3 and 8-4 at Nos. 2 and 3 dou­bles to complete the 7-2 win. 
Notre Dame's match with UCLA will be a rematch of the 1998 NCM Midwest Regional final, won by the Bruins 5-1. The Irish 11.!so lost to UCLA 7-2 in 1993 in the only other moot­ing botweon the two schools. 
Zalinski's and Varnum's sin­gles losses were thnir first dual-match singles losses of the year after starting tho sea­son 7-0. 
Hate the Great! Happy 21st Birthday, Katie Kennedy,! sMc 2000 
'Ul(tt, ,dt """' ttwe. -m-.. Z'ad. ~~ {1t'Z> 'fJ7). 'i!1o64 (1t'Z> ·021. r1~. ad e~ 
,. . 


. '' 
I\' 


By BRIAN CHORNEY 
Sport!i Write( 

A'i we begin tWs Junior Parents' Weekend, ~ specjii1 weekend for many of ourselves and our parents, I a$k youjp reflect upon the influence these special people have had on our sportingJives. I wrote this ~rtl­cle in the first person, but, in reality, the "l" could be anvone and so could the "you.?> S6:t6 our parents, grandparents, or whoever else that signillcimtly influenced your sporting life. I offer this toast: 
Here'!fto you for drivfug'us around from Little League game to. Little League game, spending both time and money to make us happy. Here's to · you for spending your ann,iyer­
sary tWery year at aLittle ... League all-star ganie in sueh exotic locations as Alturas. 
Westwood and Fall River Mills. 
Here's to you for oomforting me after a hard loss and cheer­ing me after a great.victory. Here's to you for never under~ standing why my coach didn't think 1 was as good as you thought I was. Here's to you for unconditionally cheering, until the final buzzer of a 52·7 game in sub-zero weather, just to prove that you still lovedme even when I lost. 
Here's to you for influencing my professional sports chokes and for instilling in me a love of Notre Dame. 
Here's to you for teaching me to be a good sport, to act like I've like I've scored before rather than showboating, and for reminding me to be both a good \\inner and loser. Here's to you for leaving me a mes­sage after every Notre Dame football victory. 
Here's to a common sporting language that cuts across gen­eration lines giving us some­thing to always talkabout. Here's to you for flying the Notre Dame flag on Notre Dame football Saturdays. 
Here's to the sudden shriek emulating from thestandsafter my first hit. And hen:,'s to · knowing exactly whpshri~ked without even havingtOfocik; Here's to the shoulder you offered me to cry op afterlw(tS cut from my first team. Here's to celebrating together after an Irish victory. And here's to..cry­ing and complaining together after a loss. 
Here's to hour phone conver­sations .,,ith you about recruit­ing, trading. and fantasysports. Here's to you for watching every game hoping someday to spot me in the crowd, Here's to you for buying me "cutting edge" equipment that helped . 



The Observer• SPORTS Friday, February 19, 1999 
¦ WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish prepare for Mountaineers 
By BRIAN KESSLER 
Assistant Sports Editor 
With the Big East Tournament just over a wet>k away, the No. 9 Notre Dame women's basketball team (21­
3) will look to gain some momentum when they travel to West Virginia ll0-14) tomorrow to take on tbe Mountaineers at 2 p.m. 
The Irish will then close out the regular season on Tuesday when tlH'Y host Miami. 
"I think coming off the loss to Hutgcrs last week. these two games will give us a chance to get our game together and improve on things before we get into the tournament," said Kelley Siemon, who had 10 rebounds in Wednesday's game against Syracuse. 
The Irish arc 6-0 all-lime against the West Virginia, including a 111-90 victory over the Mountaineers on Jan. 7 at the Joyce Center. 
"After that game, we started playing better defense," sophomore forward Siemon 
said. "It was frustrating tu see them score 90 points on our home court. We should never allow anyone to score that many. We're looking to step up our defense this weekend." 
Senior Danielle Green stole the show in the team's first meeting. as she scored a career-high 28 points and pulled down nine boards. 
"Shf'! is just coming off a shoulder injury, but will play on Saturday," Siemon said. "I think shp'll he able to do the same things this game. Their defense is their weak point, so shP-'11 be able to take people off the dribble and run the noor well." 
Green is ninth in the Hig East in scoring, averaging 
15.4 points per game this sca­so n. Irish captain Sheila McMillen added 26 points and eight rebounds in that game. while Christie Lambert had 19 for the Mountaineers in a los­ing effort. 
Both teams have shown the ability to put up big point totals, as Notre Dame (82.6 points per game) and West Virginia (73.5 points per game) rank second and third, respnctively in conf'cronco scoring. 
Center Ruth Riley leads the Irish in scoring with l 7 .2 points per game, while the Mountaineers are lfld by guard Rebecca Burbridge (l 5 points pP-r game). Rurbridge is also first in the conference in three-point percentage (45 pcrcont). 
The Irish arc coming ol'f' Wednesday's 82-60 win over Syracuse, in which McMillcn sc:ored a game-high 20 points. It is the ninth time this season that McMillen has gone over 20 points in a game. Niele Ivey had 17 points, while Riley added Hi. 
"It was tough playing with out Danielle and coming off that loss, but we showed that we can come back and play well as a team.," Si11mon said. 
The Mountaineers. on tho other hand. dropped a 65-60 decision at Villanova in thnir last outing. Maria Tchobanova rncorded her ninth double­double of the season (l l points, 12 rebounds). Sfln ior Ilse Opstaele had 12 points. 


Reminder 
Undergraduate students applying for the Kellogg Institute's summer international research grant competition must have their applications in by 
Fridav, Februarv 26. 
~ a. 
If students want to apply, and have not picked up application forms, they can get them at the Kellogg Institute on the second floor of the Hes burgh Center or from Hurley 110. 
For information, contact Michael Francis, Assistant Provost for International Studies 
1-5203 
.... 
VARSITY SHOP 
#2.'I-Men's Tennis
...­

_... 
VARSITY SHOP
'I•' 
Men's Basketball 

vs. vs. Worthweitern 
West Virginia Sa+. Fet,. 10 at 1 pl\, Sun. Feb. 21 @ 2:00pm 
VI. lf'l.3 Mir,r,efota
.... 
.... Sun. Fet,. 'l.1 a+·1'l. p~
VARSITY SHOP VARSITY SHOP 

••• ...­

~---------.--------­
hiday, February 19, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 19
=================------'-'----=--:....:....:..=----=.::...._--=--==----=---'-'--=--=--=--------------------------___.'._~-:.... 
-

Baseball 
continued from page 24 
ing staff will have to decide whether use the Logansport, Ind., in a starting or closing role. 
"The great thing about Aaron is that he is happy at any role," pitching coach Brian O'Connor said. "We tried him as a starter in the fall and he showed he can throw three pitches to be nfl'ective in that role. It's a nice dilemma to have." 
While the Irish Inst fow letter­mnn in the off-season, a.n impressive rocruit.ing class offers still more talent. Center f'ielder and left fielder Matt Strickroth has secured a start­ing spot for the spring, while Paul O'Tooln looks to share time at the catcher position 
The Observer/ Jeff Hsu 

Brant Ust and Jeff Wagner will lead an Irish offense that carried the team to just one game shy of the NCAA Championships. 
~uJ www.ADWonline.com
aff ordaLle slaadent pricing 
1 

~,~· 1-800-333-8571 
•

complete software selection ;c-~~ 
friendl-,, custc:itmer ser~i<:e 
l'4NOTRE DAME 
~ f,:£Dfli!Al CREDIT UNION 

Get on-line today with Notre Dame Federal Credit Union's FREE HomeBanking 
Find out how you 4ualify for Membership e-mail: ndku{a1ndli:u.org 
219 239-661 I • !WO 522-661 I 
@ 
www.ndfcu.org 

lndepcndcnl of lhe University 
(~----= .
~CADEMIC D1scoUNT ,. · .. WAREHOUSE 
Get on-line with Notre Dame Federal Credit Union's FREE Home Banking Service. Internet Banking On-Line. As a Member, you can enjoy secure access to your accounts day or night. Check balances, pay bills, transfer money. All from the privacy and convenience of your Home or Office. 
• 
FREE Secure Access to your accounts 

• 
FREE Stock Quotes 

• 
Compatible with Quicken or Microsoft Money 

• 
Financial Wizard™ Calculators 

• 
Plus low-cost Electronic Bill Payment Service 


with Wagner. 
With a number of freshmen on the starting lineup, Mainieri believes that the athleticism will overcome any problems that inexperience might pose. 
"This is clearly going to be our most athletic and solid line­up in the last five years," he said. "Most coaches would be a little nervous knowing that so much of that lineup will be freshmen, but I'm not." 
While the Irish will not be playing their home opener until March 23, the team has a pret­ty full plate of games before then. The Irish start off Friday morning against James Madison bef'orc taking on No. 23 Florida International (9-0). 
Next week, the team will travel to Louisiana for four games in the New Orleans Invitational. In March, they will host the Irish Baseball Classic in San Antonio, Texas. 

Finally, after two games against West Virginia to start off Big East play, Lim team will open their home imason against Western Michigan. 
Following NCAA regulations, the Irish will play 55 regular­season games this season, one below the maximum allowed. That one game was played on Sept. 12, I998, at Michigan State and featurnd the starting lineup. The 9-5 victory dons not factor into this smtson's rncord but did provide lhn opportunity for Ust and Wag,rnr to score hack-to-back home rnns whiln five l'roshrnan starters com­binnd to hit 8-for-21 with thrnn BBi. five runs scored and only onn strikeout. 
"We're glad we playnd that game," Maininri said. "It was important becausn of how many freshmen we have, to give them cxposuro to collegn baseball." 
¦ SPORTS BRIEFS 
WOMEN'S RUNNING 
CLUD -For all those who prefer companions to the treadmill, the Women's Hunning Club is opnn to run­ners of any level at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. They are intent upon enjoying their workouts as they explore run­ning routes around Notre Dame, Saint Marv's, and in South Bend. Call 'tfono at 4­2710 or Jenny at 4-21)14 with 
questions. 
~'tat Depa,tment of the Treasury~Jlntemal Revenue Service 
http-J/www.ustreas.gov 

ERASMUS BOOKS i 
•Used 
books IJought and sold 

•25 
Categories of Books 

•25,000 
Hardback and Paper!Jack hooks in stock 

•Out-of-l'rint 
search service: $2.00 

•Apprai~als 
largt and small 


Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 
All Show... Refcwc 6 PM $4.00 

$4.00 Children/Sen inn, S~.~O Aduil 
Ster~o Surround Sound in all Thentres 
Messge lnA Bottle  PG-13  
1:15, 2:10. 4:05. 5:05.  
7:10, 8:15, 9:55  
Life Is Beautiful  PG-13  
1:30. 4:35, 7:35, 10:15  
October Sky  PG-13  
2:00, 4:40, 7:25, 9:50  
Pleasantvllle  PG-13  
2:00, 4:45, 7:40, 10:20  
Patch Adams  PG-13  
1 :35, 2:30, 4:10, 5: 10  
7:20, 7:50, 10:00, 10:30  
Payback  R  
1 :45, 3: 10, 4:20, 5:35  
7:05. 8:00, 9:40, 10:25  
Prince of Egypt  PG  
2:20. 4:50. 7:00  
Saving Private Ryan  R  
1:40, 5:15, 9:20  
Shakespere In Love  A  
1:50, 4 30, 7:55, 10:35  
Slmply lrreslstble  PG-13  
2:15.4:40  
Thin Red Line  R  
1 :20, 4:55, 6:30. 7:00  
Waking Ned Devine  PG  
2:50, 5:00. 7:15. 9:30  

IOOAYS wm Olll! fOUI DAY ll)V,Ul(f !1(KIJ SAUi ijA)IDICn lCOSlllll •~o P.USIS • l!O !UPIISA'lttl 
• 


• 

¦ FENCING 
Without Walsh, depleted Irish travel to Appleton 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 5pons Writtr 
Whon the Irish travol to Appleton. Wisc.. this weekend, their opponents will contend with a slightly easier task since many key Irish fencers will not make the trip to battle Chicago. Detroit, Lawerence, Michigan. Michigan State, Purdue and Wayne Statfl. 
All-American flpeeist Magda Krol and foilists Charles Hayes and Aimee Kalogera will remain in South Bend for Junior Parents' W1rnkend, and Irish fencing coach Yves Auriol is nut very concerned about the absflnsfls. 
"This is just a dual meet. but we still want to keep an unde­feated record. We can't let these setbacks distract us." he said. 
While the losses of Krol, Hayes and Kalogera signifi­cantly weaken both the men's and ·worn en ·s teams, these absences can be overcome against weak Midwestern compelition like that which faces the Irish this weekend. Since each fencer is a member of a different team, each team should be able to fill the void without too much trouble. 
The women's foil team will 

also contend without three­
time all-American Sara Walsh 
and her 45-1 record, who will 
not fence because of illness. 
However, the women's foil team is loaded with talent. All­American Myriah Brown and captain Nicole Paulina have posted 47-10 and 45-21 records respectively, and Chris Efta, a freshmen epeeist, will fence foil this weekend. 
"I think all three of us net1d to step up this weekend," Brown said. "We will delinite­ly have to pull together and pull out all the stops." 
As for the competition, the Northwestern Wildcats are one of the Midwest's top women'-; teams. Following an Irish loss to Ohio State two weeks ago, the Notre Dame 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
women do not want to wrack up another Midwest loss. 
"I hope we can still pull [a victory ovPr Northwestern] off," Auriol said. "They are a 
strong  team.  They will  be  
tough for th1:1 women."  
Auriol has other reasons  for  

not wanting to fall to the Wildcats as well. "I have never lost to them before," hi> said. 
The men's team will contend with less strenuous competi­tion during the weekend con­test. 
Hayes' spot on the foil team will be filled by freshman Steven Mautone, who has reg­istered a 29-l 5 record in his rookie season. 
Captain Stephane Auriol will also have to step up this week­end to offset the loss of I-I ayes. 
The strongest of all the Irish teams, the men's sabrn team will be as dominant as ever with all its members making the trip to Appleton. 
Freshman Andre Crompton will look to follow up his bronze medal at the Junior Olympics last weekend wilh another strong performance lhis weekend. 
"I knew he was a good, solid sabre fencer," coach Auriol said. "But this year he has become a great fencer." 
Junior Olympic silver medal winner Brian Casas will look to improve on his epee team­leading 32 wins. Casas, who was known to be a top fencer coming in this year, has also significantly improved his play this season. 
"We knew he was a good fencer," coach Auriol said. "But he needed top competi­tion and training to reach his potential. Our epee squad has given him that this year." 
Although individually talent­ed. the strength of the men's 
team continues to be its team­work and depth. "The men are very consis­tent," coach Auriol said. "ff one doesn't fence well, the other will step it up. They are 
DANCE WORKSHOP PRESENTS 
CING 


e0RINKJ 
New student works & perionnance improvisation 
Fri¥ Feb 19 at 8 p.m. • Sat, Feb. 20 at 8 p.m. • Sun¥ Feb. 21 at 2:30 p.m. O'Laughlin AuditoriLm 

TICKET ORDERS BY PHONE: 219/2844626 MORE,40Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's College Box Office ~ENfWI{, /in O'Laughlin Auditorium, open 9 a.m. -5 p.m., ,o,. THE ARTs Monday -Friday. ¦oni• .,......, 111 

r-----------------, r----------------, 
: 10 tanning : : 1 month : 
I I 
: sessions : :of unlimited tanning : 
I I
I I 
l s'.JO : : s'.JS :
L----------------~
L-----------------~ 
NEW! 
University Commons Southland Plaza Grape & McKinley 
by UP Mall at Ireland & Ironwood near KMarl 
272-7653 291-2000 256-9656 

fencing well as a team. When they have to come together, they can do it." 
Despitfl the lack of' strong team competition this week­end, the Irish know that they will face some talented indi­vidual fencers. 
"No team will beat us," Stephane Auriol said. "But there are some good individu­

als." 

[I' the men win at least six of their eight matches this week­end -they should win them all -coach Auriol will pick up his 100th career men's victory in only his fifth season as the men's head coach. 
With each passing week and every victory, the Irish grow closer and closer tu their final goal of' a National Championship in Waltham, Mass. While they are on the right track, they know that the journey is f'ar from over. 
"We all havo improvements to make," Stephane Auriol said, "but w11 are happy with whom we stand right now. We know thero is still a long way to go." 


IN THE DELL .. 
Available Feb. 15"Thru April 3"' 

l 9 9 9 
Pulliarn Journalism Fellowships 
Graduating college seniors are invited to apply for the 26th annual Pulliam Journalism Fellowships. We will grant IO-week summer intern­ships to 20 journalism or liberal mts majors in the August 1998-June 1999 '-graduatin!!'-classes. 
Pn~vious internship or pmt-time experience at a newspaper is desired, or other demonstration of writing and rep01ting ability. Those who go through the Fellowships often find new professional opprntunities open­ing up at other newspapers during and after the program. Winners will receive a $5.250 stipend and will work at either The Indianapolis Star and The Indianapolis News or The Ari-;.011(1 Re1wblic. Opportunities for online training are available, along with reporting experience at our major metropolitan daily newspapers . 
.-\11 l.·ntrie:--must he postmarked by March I. 1999. Successful appli­cant... will be notified on or before April l and will be asked to respond i,nmediately with a letter of intent, at which time one-third of the cash grant will be mailed to the Fellow. 
To request an application packet, visit our Weh -,ill.'. e-mail us nr write: 

Rus-,cll B. Pulliam Pulliam 1:\.,llowships Director The Indianapolis News 
Web site· www.stame½s com/pjf P.O. Box 145 E-mail: pulham0~stamews.com 
Indianapolis. IN 46206-0145 
Friday, February 19, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 21 
•-~-___.:________________---:-------:------------------,-----------------------..:~:..__~ 
"Wo havo to get the puck in son. 6-2 and 4-1. lead the CCIIA in goals pflr thflmselvcs on tho road lo tho d<1ep and fight through the In those games, the Irish game. "You want to slow down playoffs.
Hockey 
checks." doftly handled tho speed and their forwards by finishing "IA win( will give us a lot of 
Carrnll plans to implement size of the Falcons, whose bestcontinued from page 24 
consist play against the asset is their cffectivo use of Spartans. the power play. Since their
rc•(·.1111! !->lmnp. "You havo to Im patient second meeting on .Ian. 8.
"I think you have to look to 
against Michigan State," Notre Dame revitalized its
Illw fHlWPr playI." Urick said. 
Carroll said. "They don't give penalty-kill. burning 47 of 53
"WP h a cl a f'i v,~ -o n-t hr n n you much, tlrny don't make penalties (88.7 percent).
against FPrris Stall' 111ml didn't 
many mistukcs !defensively], "Their power play has been
scorn!. You hav<' to convert on but you have to capitalize on very good," Carroll said ol" I.he
l'ivn-011-thr·<'PS; it's a must to the chanc<is you earn." Falcons. "I think we've clone awin II hork1•y gnmf'. I think we Saturday's game aguirrnl nicn job in terms of not givinglrnvo to turn tlrn power play up Bowling Creon will he an ospn-them a lot of chances. Oura notch." 
dally tough ono l"or Notre pnnalty kill roally started toThf' Spart.ans' stilling 1-2-2 Damo. Bowling Green is idle turn tho cnrrrnr after the sec­l'orndwcking syslnm also p()ses 
Friday, but the Irish will arrive ond game with them."
problm11s l"or cornp11titors. Such a syshHll tPnds to nowd ccntnr on enemy ice after a potontial-Bowling Green boasts its size ly grueling battle against at tlrn forward position. Since
icP and 111ak<•s it hard to gain 
Michigan Statn. tho Falcons play a punishing
sp«>Pd into tlw offpnsivn zonn. Currnntly. the Falcons am physir.al game, they will make
Urick wants to adopt that 
sncnnd in thn CCI IA with 18. 9-it twon more dillicult on Notresanrn styl1i to throw off tho 
pPrcnnl efl'icioncy with llrn Dam<', alrnady tired from theSpartans. 
man advantage. Still, Notrc1 Spartan dash.

"I think WP hnv<! to got a 
Dame beat Bowling Grnen in "Thny're a scoring team,"
l'orPchl'1·k going (against 
both of thnir meetings this sea-Urick said of thn Falcons, whoMirhigan Slati-1." Urirk said. 

----·--------­
Preseason 
l O@/o-40@/o off 

All Mev--cha~dise 
NOTRE DlllE GOLF SHOP 
Open 11-4 Daily 

Golf Apparel From: 
Cutter & Buck, Hilfiger, Ashworth Ladies wearfrom Elandale, Sport Haley, EP Pro 

Rockne Memorial 219-631-6425 
H A C 

WELL DONE 
WELL RUN 

NOW GET SOME SLEEP!!! 
PROUDM&D 
[checks]." confidence going into Urn play-
Overall, the team needs to offs land) knowing that wo can re-focus after a tough weekend !mat the bnst toam in the in order to nail down a home league," Urick said of' ice spot for the CCIIA playoffs. tonights's game. "We're kind of' Right now, Notre Dame is in down a little: we haven't fourth place by just one point scored in a whiln, wo've lost a over Ferris State, and if the couplo straight. It's a big ganw Irish continue to struggle in that wn nnecl to got back on offensively, they may find a winning streak again." 
• BENGAL BOUTS 
J.unior co-captains 
pull all the punches 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ "l Iiko hning in tho spot that I Spons Editor looked up to as a freshman. It is nice to know that I get to 
('

The average fighter dedi• help ttwm out." 
cates hours of the spring Besides winning last year's 
semester to sit-ups, push-ups championship, Maguire's 
and working on technique. favorite moment was meet­
Four of these boxers dedi­ing former captain and 
cate even more. champion John 
Juniors Mike Maguire, J.R. Christol'oretti. Maguire 
Mellin, Torn Biolchini and admired him for his dedica­
Mike Homanchek pour their tion to tho cause. 
blood, sweat and tea1•s into "Boxing is a hard sport," 
the administrative and orga­Maguire suid. "The thing 
nizational tasks necessary to about being a captain is that 
carry the 69th-annua1 we were all first-year fight­
Bengal Bouts to its fundrais­ers and so we know what it 
ing goal and beyond. is like. We try to push each 
The four co-captains, other to be better." working in conjunction with Biokhini got his lirst taste senior captains Dave of Bengal Bouts at an early Murphy, Tom Will, Michael age. lie follows in the 11ght­LaDuke and Brian Gaffney, ing footsteps of not only his spend a large chunk of time three brothers, but his fath1:1r soliciting ads, designing as well. posters and selling tickQts. When he was younger. 
Each captain takes on a Biolchini recalls flying up to 
fundraising duty on top of watch his siblings fight; now. 
the tigorous training sched­Biolchini's father and broth­
ule. Maguire and Romanchok ers will make the long trnk 
handled on-campus ticket to watch him carry the torch. 
sales, Mellin worked on the Mellin's favorite Bengal 
public relations aspect and Bouts moment came when 
Biolchini solicited advertise­he fought in tho f'inals his 
rn ents and distributed freshman year. Despite los­
posters. ing to Doug Polina and 
While each enjoys the dnspite knowing that it was 
charitable aspect of the "lost cause," he still savored 
Bengal Bouts, all the cap­the experience. 
tains favor the roles thoy The four co-captains ­
take on in practice. There, and thn othnr fighters ­
they become teachers, show­share a camaraderie that 
ing the first-year boxers tho transcends the intense 
techniques needed to domi­Bnngal Bouts competition. 
nate in the ring. Biolchini said his favorite 
"[The best part is] being part of the Bouts is getting to 
able ·to help out and pass on work with the "magnilicent 
what I learned," Mellin said. Mike Maguiro." 



Women's Resource Center 
OPEN HOUSE 
For Faculty, Staff, and Students 
Friday, February I 9th 11 am -2pm300 Lafortune 
StoP BY and See Us!!! All Are Welcome!!! 
-




¦ CROSS COUNTRY 
Freshman Watson qualifies to run in Ireland 



¦ ¦

x-ray roger Jimmy 
•
•
• 
•
•
• 


The Alumni-Senior Club 
Get our Compact Discs at Orbit and Musicland 
For bookings call 317.403.5690 or visit our website at WvvW.x-rayrogerjimmy.corn 

By MATT OLIVA 
Sports Writer 
Freshmen Luke Watson will cross the Atlantic. 
Watson placed f'irst in the 1999 USA Junior Winter Cross-Country National Championship this past Sunday in Tacoma, Wash. As a result, he and tlrn other top six finishers will repres<~nt the United States in the 1999 World Junior Cross Country Championships on March 28, in Belfast, Northern Ireland. 
Watson claimed victory over tlrn rest of' the field by edging out the University of Colorado's Steve Slattery with a time of 23:26. 
Watson felt that the race was well-suited to his style of running. 
"It had a crisp start and was not too fast," he said. 
Love, The Europeans, Everyone Else & CP 18033B 
The 8K race was tight for the first three-quarters of the way, but a pack of' six then emerged from thP rest. 
"Around the 6K. runners started to make their moves and six runners eventually l'ormed a par.k in the lead," Watson said. "Wo came around a sharp turn with a quarter mile to go and I was able to take the lead. 
"With about one hundred meters lel't. I was passed by Steve Slattery," he continued. "I just dug down and found something and was able to regain the lead and win by two seconds." 
By winning the race, Watson automatically quali­fied for the Junior World Championships. Watson's qualification makes him the third Notre Dame runner in the past four y1-iars to make the team. Current sophomore week with the national team, Big East championships. Ryan Shay made it last year. and the race will feature run­fourth at the National 

"It's a pretty big deal to ners from around the world. Catholic Invitational, and make tho team," said lfr is prPparing now by work­sixth at the Wolf and Knttle Watson. "It is a great for ing out with the track team Invitational in Elgin, Ill. each athlete, having the for speed training. Watson also noted that., experience from world com­This past fall, Luke was the having participated in th1~ petition. It is also good for No. 2 runner on the cross­World Junior Championships. our program." country team and an all-Big ho and Shay will both bring 
Once Watson gets to East selection. His top finish­v a I u ab I e exp fl r ic n c e to th () Bell'ast, he will train for a es included seventh at tho team n11xt fall. 
ANNOUNCING THE 1999 ANNUAL AWARDS OF ALBERT RAVARINO ITALIAN STUDIES TRAVEL SCHOLARSHIP 
Thanks to a generous gift from the Albert Ravarino family, the Italian Studies Program is pleased to announce the 1999 annual competition for travel in support of summer research and foreign study in Italy. Grants will be made in amounts not to exceed $3,500, and will not nonnally cover all expenses. Notre Dame graduate and undergraduate students who are planning to pursue research or a formal program of summer study in Italy arc invited to apply. Students must have completed at least one year of Italian language. The course work will normally be in Italian: will involve the study of Italian language.literature, and culture; and must be applicable to a student's degree program at the University of Notre Dame. 
Recommended programs for foreign study include, but are not limited to: Loyola University in Rome, Boston University in Padua, UCLA in Pisa, Miami University in Urbino, Columbia University in Scandiano. Interested students are encouraged to consult the materials on ltalian foreign study in the Department of Romance Languages, 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Students are invited to suhmit a fetter which should include: 
I. an expfanmion (lhow the proposed research or foreign studr will enhance their degree 
program at Notre Dame .., a personal statement indicating their /Jackground, illfercsts. an long term goals 
3. 
a description <~l the research project ()(the program the_,. intend tofo11ml' 

4. 
c1 hue/get indicating the costs invofred 

5. 
the names of' two references 


Application Deadline: Friday, March 5th, 1999 Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship Program in Italian Studies 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall University of Notre Dame 
Frida\, February 19, 1999 IOOKINl, THROUGH THE WIZARO OF ND 
The Observer• TODAY page 23 DAN SULUVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Eliz.abeth Taylor, Mary Frann, Joanne Woodward, Ralph Nader, James Farrell, James Leo Herlihy, Adam Baldwin, C1te!sea Clinton 
~PY Birthday; You've got all the · t moves this year, You're sure of lourself and your ideas, You'll he ab e to reach your1,oals. Set your course and don't eviate even if someone does try to sidetrack you. This is your time to forge ahead. If you don't make headway, you'll have no one to blame but yourself. So set your mind on what it is you want 
FOXTROT 
CHECK THIS ooT-M1 Fl<E'E ittRoWS AR 

!>11.BE!n' 
most out of life, Your numbers: 10, 17, 
20, 24, 32, 38

BJ I.L A/\,Jl :\ D 
ARJES (March 11-Aprll 19): You must complete unfinished projects if 
D1~ fW lJl),\l,,..'NI Pres~ S)'~Cli,;,J\11 MY J'oMP 

you wish to keep everyone around you happy. Disruptions Ill your home 
M'I' HooK SHoTS w110A! r 
J ARE BETTER THAN ""' SHoTS ARE MAOE ONE' 
will surface ifJ:°u hav~ent
B TIER THA DID You
~•~s~ 
i (:.Ui 1HIS WOULO C>E @)g A LIE. I'/"\ NOT f\ ~ N0N-(t-\?L0'l'EE. 
"D 
i 

YOU N£.£.0 TO 5IGN 
il-\E NON-£.~?LOYE.E CERTIFICATION fOP-.1"\ BEVO~c I PROC£S5 '<'OUP.. R~ 1.5L ~-­
60 Like 11-Down 
2 
61 Chat 
15
62 Inherently 63 "Reeling In the 
17
Years" rock 
group 
19 
22
DOWN 
26
1 Trees with 
sawtooth-edged leaves 2 Umberto II was its last king 3 Afire 4 Leave alone 5 Oxford University 

1 Big name in basketball 10 Fills up 15 Steps up 16 Pastry filler 17 1892 
Leoncavallo opera 1e"Dead--" (1991 thriller) 19 Blue bloods 
30 Fuse 31 Take off 33 1940 Fonda role 35 Mr. Muscles 36 Words repeated 
in "If--meet 
38 Musical Mitchell 39 PC key 41 Kind of reaction 42 Public address 
system? 43 Sales force 

20 Some landing sites 22 "Under a Glass Bell" writer 23 It's a sin 25 "Julius Caesar" setting 26 Thousand-plus­pager 28 -~kebab 47 City northwest of 
Syracuse 50 Court records 52 Drops on the 
ground 53 Didn't budge 55 Coo or cuckoo 57 Internet 
destinations 58 Shut off (from) 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE S S T S D O A 
college since 
1326 
&New York's former-­Building 
7 They have their ears close to the ground 
aMonk, perhaps 9 Singer Young 
10 Suffix with sea or 


13 Uttered 14 Had a hunch 21 Suffix with clown 
or brown 
approval 27 Gulf port 

O  -=+:.:.+:~-'! 29 Drip source  
A  "'-'+-"-+"+--'-l 32 Brit. recording  
D 01  ~~-­S T S  I C E D C O D E  giant 33 Minim  

47 53 
57 
so 
62 

Puzzle by Martin Ashwood-Smith and Brendan Quigley 
34 Baltic Sea tributary 35 Trouble, so to speak 37 Proclivity 
38 Marquis de Sade novel 
40 Military decoration 
41 Tabloid topic 
42 Like some pymts. 44 Exchanged words? 
enou:fi'. time wi family,

SEE THAP.1 
T. URUS (April 20-M.ty 20): You DID You 
can expect to see fireworks at home if you have been spending too much
SEE 11-IAT?.1 
time with your friends or on the road. Delays in shipments are likely. Make yourclaims quickly. 00 
GEMINI (Mi 21-June 20): You will be the file of e party. Your quick retorts will keep everyone in stitches. Be careful not to ue CArPless with your wallet or your possessions, Theft or 1,-11.re e-lident. 0000 
CANCER (June 21-Jllly 22): You will take lnin'5S the wrong '¥i!Y today. Extn1Vaganca will be a key issue. Refrain from tryi,ng to buy so~·s
SCOTT Af'A~ 1' 
.m"t>,. s.'ilp. Ynui:2 tlic c:·ll: w:10-r.eeds ro diange, not your part,~. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your oolor-­ful way of exaigerating will bring you popularity; owever, it may be at the expense of someone's feelings. Think twice before you make some­one the brunt of your good fun. 000
TI-\E. ~lL'c.. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Tou 
CA5IN£T. 
45 Cuenca coin 46 Its flag has a 
yellow cross on a blue background 
48 Onlookers 49 Romance 
-· 
¦• OF INTEREST 

Notre Darne Jazz Band ­
much too fast will be the issue. Don't expect anyone to come to the rescue. You will have to solve your problems alone. Finandal chan~es will be favorable if you have bu gett!d wise­
Jy.000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You can rount on others to he!P. you achieve your goals. Your abihty to he per­&uasive in a tactful manner will ensure that {oou get the backing you require to ollow through on your
ideas.0000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-N'o\'. 21): You will be in a hi{hly creative cycle, Get busy and wor on ideas or hobbies that you had put a.,ide, You can really e,q,ress yourself well when dealing wiih those close to your heart today.
00 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov, 22-Dec. 21): Your desire to travel will lead you to your travel agent. Don't hesitate to plan r.our vacation early, Just the thought of going away ahould ~your emotional well-being. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-J-.n. 19): You can get involved in financial ven­hires, but you must not overextend yourself. Be su.re that you put some extra cash aside in case of an emer­gtn~lder family members may need p.000 
AQUARIUS Q'an. 20-,Feb, 18): )ou CI\Il exJ:'.' ·• · • e,.n,,ti..,,.ai pus!, anJ pull with vour lover, Tr:r not to 1.Je to-, cool in your actions. r:7 to put your differences aside an get back to ~ "1,..,..,.,ru!IP with one anothPr 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You car. ask co-workers to help you finish up your work. Don't allow anyone to goad you into spending more than you can afford. Children m:7v be emotionally draining. Ask for a vice. 
000 
flev, George Wiskerchen. 

CSC, will direct a performance tomorrow afternoon at 
2:30 p.m, in Washington Hall. The concert is free and open .to the publk. 
Holy Cross Associates is sponsoring a Discernment Evening on Sunday, Feb. 21, from 5-8 p.m. at the Catholic Worker House. Come for Mass. free dinner a.nd a chance to learn more about a year of service With HCA. 
Justice Education -The "Homelessness and the Single Parent Family Conference" will take place tomorrow at Carroll Auditorium at Madolva Hall Saturday. Father Joseph Haca]a will give the keynote address at 9 a.m. 
We WantYou: 
Sports copy editors and production
51 Record of one year 54 Some congratulations 
staff needed. 
56 Like some 
59 Acefroeoatfw·1de?. 
Call Brian 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the 
4--2015 best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACAOSS. 
, 

--·,' ., 
Friday 8:00/10:30 Saturday 8:00/10:30 Cushing $2 
JI 


, ..______ _ 
__.,._______ ___________________ "'!,___________ 
____'-...,____________________ ..., 
¦ The Saint Mary's ¦ The Yankees made basketball team has put themselves a little bit an end to its long los­better Thursday as ing streak. "The Rocket" landed 
in New York. 
.. 
PORTS 
p. 17 P· 14 
fHE 
page 24 0 BSERVER Friday, February 19, 1999 


¦ BASEBALL 
Sluggers lead off season against James Madison 

The Observer/Jeff Hsu Notre Dame returns 11 of 12 pitchers from a staff that ranked 13th in the nation with a 4.02 ERA last sea­son. The staff is led by senior Alex Shilliday and sophomore Aaron Heilman. 
By BILL HART 
Assistant Sports Editor 

While this week's gray weather is a far cry from hase­ball's typical blue skies and green gr.,ass, Notre Dame's team will kick of its 1999 cam­paign today at 11 a.m. with a contPst against James Madison and a nightcap versus Florida International. 
Expectations are high this season after last year's 41-17 finish. In 1998, the Irish came just short of earning an at­large spot in the NCAA Championship. 
This year's Rig East pres11a­son poll predicted Notre Dame to place first in the rnnfernncP, and their experience -16 returning lettermen led in the batter's box by junior third baseman Brant Ust and senior catchPr Jeff Wagner -helpPd assert that lofty expectation. 
Ust, the 1998 Big East Player of the Year, was unanimously selected as the preseason play­er of the year by the league head coaches. Last season's shortstop, Ust is moving to third base with the graduation of first-team all-Big East team­mate LJ. Brock. 
In the '98 season, Ust topped the Big East in hitting (.49:{). slugging percentage (.960) and on-base percentage (.530) in league action. Overall, he had 
a .393 average, which pushed his career batting average to .373, the third-highest in Notre Dame history. Ust earned all-American honors b<1f'ore play­ing over thP summN with the 
U.S. national team. 
"Playing for Team USA was trnmPndous opportunity for Brant," said head coach Paul Mainieri, who starts the year off just two victories shy of his 500th win. "lln showed that Notre Damo has onn of th11 nation's b()st playors." 
Wagner's return to the Irish lineup will also provide a 1rned­ed offensive boost. A three­time all-Big East perform<H and the Notre Damp earner home run leader, he was draft­ed by th11 Toronto Blue Jays last spring. Thfl pick followed anoth1)r solid season by tlrn Louisville. Ky., nativ0. in which he hit .330 with 14 home runs and 49 HBI. 
In the pitching category, the Irish return 11 of' 12 pitchers from a staff that ranked 13th in the nation with a 4.02 ERA. The sole loss is Brad Lidge, who was named Big East Pitclrnr of the Year in '98 bflfore being drafted in the first round by the Houston Astros. 
Tim staff is led by senior right-hander Alex Shilliday, who turned in a second-tnam All-Big East pPrformancc last season. 
Sophomore Aaron lleilman. who with Ust was named to thP prnseason all-Big East team, returns to th() lineup after sav­ing nine gamfls and ()arning a 
1.61 ERA, the best in the nation last season. The coach-
see BASEBALL/ page I 9 

¦ HOCKEY 
Icemen prepare to face off vs. Spartans, Falcons 
By TED BASSANI 
Sports Writer 
Coming off two consecutive conference losses, the Notre Dame hockey team will look to solidify a spot on home ice for the CCHA playoffs as it takes on Michigan State and Bowling Green on the road this week­end. 
Tonight, the Irish will wrap up their season series against Michigan State at Munn Ice Arena. Two weeks ago, the
• teams skated to a 2-2 draw at the Joyce Center. Last Friday at Munn, the Spartans posted a 1-0 victory that advanced thPm toward their current 18-game winning streak, The latest U.S. Collegiate Hockey Organization poll has the Spartans ranked No. 3 in the nation, while the Irish are at No. g in th11ir 17th-straight week in tho top 10. 
The Irish need to disengage the Spartans' goaltending and stifling team defense, which allowed more than two goals in just two of th8 team's last 18 games. 
"We have to be a bit more aggressive in how we shoot," assistant coach Tom Carroll said. "We have to get [Spartans goaltender Joe Blackburnl to move a bit and get on the rebounds. He's a good goal­tender; we have to have him not see shots. Many of the goaltenders at this level are not going to get beat on the first shot most of the time." 
Blackburn, a sophomore, currently leads the league in goals-against average (1. 39) and save percentage (.931). The Irish have netted only two goals against him in six ·peri­ods and only one at evPn strength. 
More astounding has been the success of l\Hchigan State's penalty-killing unit, which has not given up more than one power play goal in any game all season. 
Notrc Dame's offense needs to snap out of a scoreless streak that ran through last weekend's losses to Michigan State and Ferris State. All told, the Irish have gone without a goal for more than seven peri-


The Observer/ Kevin Datum 

Sophomore left wing Dan Carlson and the Irish hope to overcome Joe Blackburn and the Spartan defense tonight in East Lansing. With a victory the Irish will even the season series at 1-1-1. 
ods of play -almost 146 min-has produced. Despite going son. utes. scoreless in its last 10 Team captain Brian Urick 
So far this sPason, the team attempts, Notre Dame still said the team should utilize thn has looked to its power play leads the conference with a power play to emerge from its unit for offensive help, and it 22.8-percent mark on the sea-
see HOCKEY/ page 21 

w,-.., at West Virginia Women's Tennis at Michigan State 
.. .
-·~··. at National Team lndoor Tournament ~ Today, 7 p.m . 
Saturday, 2 p.m. 

it;tft' -~·
SPORTS 
T oday-Sundar Baseball
ATA 

Men's Tennis vs. James Madion 
vs. West Virginia 1\11•'~ ·'ff vs. Northwestern at Miami, Fla.
Sunday, 2 p.m. -.~v
~\f:1$? 

Saturday, I p.m. Today, 11 a.m.
GLANCE 
• 




