----------------------------------:-------­
Is Pierce Brosnan enough? 
Texas A&M mourns Bonfire victims 
See what Scene has to say about the 19th 
Family, faculty members and friends gather to 
Monday
installment in the James Bond series, "The 

remember the 12 students killed when a 40-foot 
World ls Not Enough. u 

bonfire collapsed Thursday. 
NOVEMBER 22,
Scene . page , 1 

News . page 3 
1999 
THE 

. Student exhibit gives practical gallery experience 
By ERIN LaRUFFA 
News Writer 
An exhibition of Native American art opened at the Snite Museum on Sunday. 
Notre Dame students in a Native American art history course created the exhibit. Joanne Mack, an anthropology professor and museum curator, teaches the class. 
"Students dealt in different ways with Native American art," Mack said. 
The students each picked a specific area to study. After the students had completed researching their topics, they were able to select pieces from the museum's storage to display. 
Students also wrote the labels explaining and describing each piece. 
"It's like a paper without as much writing as you would nor­mally have for a paper," Mack said. 
The class had to consider a wide variety of factors when creating their displays. 
"There were certain restric­tions on what you could and couldn't display," said Laura 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIII NO. 57 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

HOLDIN' BACK 
Native Alllerican art exhibit open.s at Snite 
PENN STATE UNIVERSITY 



Penn State bus crash kills 2, sends I06 to hospital 
Associatctl Press 
WIIITE IIAVEN, Pa. 

Four charter bus11s loaded with Penn State University students t'.raslH1d on u l'o~gy j II t () r S [ [l f. (1 
n a r I Y Bus Crash S11ndav, 
killing a stu-. Driver, stu­
dent und a dent killed 
bus drivnr and injuring . 10 5 injured 
at l1rnst I Oh . Four buses, 
P () 0 P I c · three cars 
a t1 th or itit's said. involved 
The four hus11s wnrn among six carry­ing 280 st.udnnts homr f'rom a s hovp in g tr ip lo Nc w Yo r k City. llnivPrsity l'rnsid1inl Cralrnm Spanier said the busns drov1l into a "vnrv thick wall of l"o~" 011 lnt11rst'atb 80 just after midnighl. 
In tho ensuing chain-reac­tion wreck, thrnn buses smuslwd into mu1 another and a fourth hit a guard rail. A dent killed, whose name was pickup truck and two cars also not released, was in the first became tangled in the wreck-row of seats on the bus behind age. Burge's, Spanier said. 
· "Everybody At least wanted to see 
"I saw a girl holding her five people,
Hncknfnllnr including Ccnlnr before teeth in her hand. It was another bus 
Christmas. Wr. just unbelievable." driver who wcrn really underwent looking for­surgery,

Jessica Miller 
ward to gf'l­remained ting away," Penn State freshman hospitalized 
!'laid .Jessica Miller, a frosh-
m a11 from 
York, Pa. She said many of the students on her bus, the sec­ond to crash, had been asleep. 
"'The fog was awful -we gol off the bus and we couldn't nvcn scr. each other right away. Wn didn't n~alizc llrn nxtnnt of' it until we got off the bus," slrn said. "I saw a girl holding her Leeth in her hand. ll was just unbelievable." 
Tim rlrivrr of her bus, llobert Clifford Burge, .'iO, of' Altoona. was killed. The stu-Oinardo. a s1~niur art history major taking tho class. For example, one tribe donated a pipe tu thB musoum but rr.quest­ed the object not he placed on display because of its sacred naturn. 

"This !exhibit! was all done with the help of the professional museum staff," said Mack, who added that typically teams of people, never an individual, work to create an oxhibition. 
The current exhibit, which will be on display until Dec. 12 is an extension or the museum's 1mr­m anent collection of Native American art. 
The students' exhibit includes Alaskan Eskimo carvings, Lakota Soiux bead work, and southwestern potUiry. Many objects in the collection worn not just pieces or art but w11re actually used daily. 
Senior anthropology major Courtney Banks evnn went out­side the museum to find the pieces for her display. Two Navajo wool rugs accompanying her project are currently on loan to the Snite. 
Despite the great deal·of time and research that went into the project, Banks said she enjoyed working on it. 
"If I work in an art museum, I have experience in the basics," said Banks. 

in serious 
condition 
Sunday, Spanier said. Police didn't know the conditions Sunday of the drivers and passengers in the cars. 
Most of the other injuries worn minor, Spanier said. 
Students who weren't injured gathered at the nearby Church of Saint Patrick after tho crash until more buses arrived to take them back to State College. The trip had 
see CRASH/page 4 



-----~ ­

... 
page2 The Observer . INSIDE Monday, November 22, 1999 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Open your minds, people 
I love this school, but I can't stand some of the holier-than-thou little snobs that go here. Patrick Makeover, in his letter to the editor last Wednesday, "Cowboy Mouth is washPd up," offi­cially announced Lhat he is just way too cool for 
this campus. He decided  
that he is so cool, in. fact,  Sam Derheimer  
that  he  can  trash  the  
Student  Union  Board,  wire editor  
Cowboy Mouth and any­ 
-one with musical tastes  
other than his.  

Well, sorry, buddy. This time you were wrong. This time your elitist attitude failed you. This time your fear of accepting anything other than what pop society happens to be embracing at i.he moment caused you to miss an unbelievable con­cert. Cowboy Mouth rocked. The band's energy was incredible, and their music had the entire audience moving. I guarantee not a single person left that concert regretting either the many valu­able hours of television they missed or the killer $10 they had to part with to see a live rock show. 
But in Patrick's defense, he had never heard of Cowboy Mouth before; obviously, th.is implies that they couldn't possibly be any good. Cowboy Mouth doesn't even have a track on the latest Abercrombie & Fitch promotional CD. Damn, they must suck. U-93 doesn't play them every hour on the hour; let's trash 'em. And unlike our friend Patrick, Cowboy Mouth has refused to sell out. They must not have any talent at all. 
Honestly, people like Patrick confuse me. I don't know whether I want to laugh at them or feel sorry for them. It's really just kind of pathet­ic that people can't think for themselves any­more. I mean, what ,Nill you all do ifMTV's Total Request Live ever gets cancelled? How will you know what's cool? 
Come on. Pat. You weren't really serious when you said you'd rather have Right Said Fred or some '80s hair metal band come than Cowboy Mouth? Is there something wrong with you? You'd rather see a worthless, talentless joke than a great live rock band simply because you're too shallow to open yourself up to something new? 
Open your minds, people! Break free! I know it's hard to believe, but there is a whole world of thought outside the stifling trends at Notre Dame. There is music other than what the Dave Matthews Band plays. If you live your entire life too scared to accept anything not already pre­approved by pop culture, you are going to miss out. (You know, at one time, no one knew who the Dave Mathews Band was, either.) 
To SUB. I say thank you. You brought in a great band, and the concert was amazing. For those of us capable of looking beyond the flavor of the hour and enjoying a concert for no other reason than because the band rocks, the concert was a great experience. 
So Patrick, I guess it all comes down to this: While you were sitting in your dorm room watch­ing "Dawson's Creek" on TV, Twas at one of the best 1.ive rock shows I've been to in a while. And because none of the closed-minded clones like you showed up, I got great seats, too. Thanks, buddy. 
The views expressed in the fnside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Obseroer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Erin LaRuffa Mike Vanegas Maribel Marer Graphics 
Sports Scott Hardy 
Bill Hart 
Production Viewpoint Mark DeBoy Mary Margarer Nussbaum Lab Tech Bmy Storey 
The Ob,mcr (USPS 599 2-4000) is pu6li,hed Monday thiough Friday cx~epr d~1ring exam aud va1,;;1t1on pl.'.riod~. lhe Ob~crvcr ls a mc"mher olth-e A-.sociatcd Pre.ss. All reprodL1ctioo nghts arc reserved. 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday 
. Competition: College  . Discussion: "I Don't  . Film: International Film  . Dinner: Thanksgiving  
Bowl, Notre Dame Room,  Have an Eating Disorder ...  Festival, "Virgin Spring,"  Buffet, North Dining Hall,  
Lafortune, 7 p.m.  yet!" Room 300,  Montgomery Theatre,  noon  
. Performance: "Dialectics  CounsAling Center, 4 p.m.  8p.m.  
for Piano," Ethan Haimo  . Session: International  
and Babette Reid, Faculty  Summer Service Learning  
Lounge, Hesburgh Library,  Program, Center for Social  
7:30 p.m.  Concerns. 7 p.m.  

Compiled from U-W1re reports
OUTSIDE THE DOME 

Alcohol, morphine, codeine kills Illinois student 
CHAMPAIGN. Ill. "Aspiration is actually a unclear whether Novella was driving Coroners announced Thursday the car.
function your body goes 

morning that alcohol, codeine and Five people helped carry Novella up 
·through when you 're 

morphine caused the death of Javier three flights of stairs to his apartment, Novella, a former University student dying slowly." where he was put in bed on his stom­who died in September. · ach. Morgan said Novella returned to 
Although his death looked similar to · his apartment by 1 A5 a.m.
Roger Swaney

an alcohol overdose, Novella's blood . Novella's roommates came home alcohol content at the time of his Champaign County coroner during the early morning hours. death was 0.107. That level is consid­They heard heavy breathing from ered legally intoxicated for driving in Morgan explained what police believe Novella's room and checked on him. Illinois, but is generally not consid­happened in the hours before Novella Novella was asp.irating -inhaling ered lethal by itself. was pronounced dean shortly after fluid into his lungs. His roommates 
ThA opiatAs in his system were at a noon on Sept. 19. hung his head over the side of the therapeutic level, which means they Novella worked until around 9 or bed because they did not want him to might have been from prescription 9:30 p.m. After work, Novella drank choke. 
medication. A police investigation did two or three Long Island iced teas, "Aspiration is actually a function not find any prescriptions for codeine Morgan said. He added that Novella your body goes through when you're made out to Novella. Investigators left the restaurant intoxicated around dying slowly," said Champaign assume the morphine appeared in midnight. County Coroner Roger Swaney. "He Novella's system because codeine No.vella and a co-worker then drove was actually dying at that point." breaks down into morphine over time. around and drank brandy, Morgan Paramedics pronounced Novella 
Urbana police investigator Dan said, until Novella passed out. lt was dead less than 10 hours later. 

Clemson debates Old South icon 
CLEMSON, S.C. 
The effects of the controversy over the Confederate flag atop the state's capital building has affected all parts of the state, and Clemson University is no exception. After 37 years of debate over the issue, the NAACP has recently initiated economic sanctions in an attempt to force South Carolina's legislative branch to remove the flag from its current location at the state capital building. Bryant Smith, associate director of student media and an instructor of speech and communications for the Universitv, said the University is not immune to the effects that will be felt due to the new motions-being brought up to remove the flag. "Students need to be aware of the issue over the flag because they are 'the people the boycott is going to affect," said Smith. "It is going to affect conferences, tourism for students involved in related majors and a lot of students' summer employment opportunities." The NAACP's boycott of the state is an attempt to increase pressure on Gov. Jim Hodges and politicians to take down the flag, an attempt that has received both approval and opposi­tion. 

Unions protest UC-Stanford merger 
LOS ANGELPOS 

Students and representatives of UC unions metThursday to protest the UC Board of Regents, urg­ing members to support the end of the UC San Francisco-Stanford merger. The merger, they said, has resulted in the "privatization" of UCSF. Protesters also said they dislike the high turnover rate of medical employees. During Friday's meeting, the entire Board of Regents is scheduled to vote on the dissolution of the merger of the UCSF and Stanfordmedical centers, which the Committee on Health Services already voted unanimously to do. In 1997, a merger between the universities' hospitals was initiated to strengthen edu­cation and availability of health care at UCSF and Stanford. The merger was also supposed to help both institutions financially, but the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 and unforeseen problems created monetary loss­es. The merger created new policies for past UC employees who are now under the control of the UCSF-Stanford health care organization. Some union members said they are worried that if the merger ends, former UC workers will be out of jobs and will experience a decrease in salaries and benefits. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 

The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Monday, Nov. 22.
AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

Lines separate high ternperatu(e zones for the day. 
FRONTS,
-.-.,.-.A-.a. ............ 
COLD WARM t,;TATIONAHY 

@"'"'© GJ c:J ~ C2l CTJ D . 1;,.;,;~ 
High LOW Show&u l=tt'lln T.atOf'rt'l* Flur'rlea S'r'IOw lc<t Sunny Pt Cloudy Cloudy 
Via A~!WCIBI/Jfl Pras:, 

NATJONALSUMMA.FIY: --·--~ An organ.zing storrn over the southern Rockies w!II produee snow In frorn sou~her.n Wyo.m11'\Q to northern.. 
New Me,)(ICO today. Snow showers wdl EtJCl&nd northwestward to Montana. Rain will fall fr"• the central 
Plains. Warm weather will be the rule from Texas to New England. Showers will llngor 1n the Southeast 
from northeastern FlariQa to North Carolina. 
) "-""--

Allanta 69 53 Las Vegas 55 31 Portland 47 40 Ballirnore 67 50 Memphis 70 ·57 Sacramento 58 37 Boston 62 48 Milwaukee 57 45 SL Louis 62 52 Chicago 60 48 New York 66 56 Tampa 80 62 Houston 80 64 Philadelphia 69 50 Wash DC 65 52 

c.i 1999 AccuWeathe.-, lne. 

Monday, November 22, 1999 The Observer . NEWS page 3 
BULGARIA

TEXAS A&M 
' 



Families mourn Bonfire tragedy 
Presidential guards 
COLLECE STI\TION 

Classmatns. families and f'rionds gathornd in churches Sunday, qt1intly sobhing and praying for thn 12 peopln killed wlw11 a four-story pyramid of logs rollaps(id at Tnxas l\&M llniV!'rsity. 
A somlrnr c;ov. Goorgn W. Bush atto1Hlnd a nwmorial snr­v ico al th,• Cnntral Baptist Churrh nnar llw campus and sigtwcl tlw gtwst books ol' all 12 viclims. 
''1'111 hnn• to lrnlp the /\ggin family from what has bnnn a tragic situation in thn statn of T(\Xas," Bush told roportPrs. lln did not plan to spnak at llrn sM­vico. "It is a timn to pray and a l.imo to hoar llw word." 
Enrlior Sunday. a youth min­ist1\r al /\&M llnitPd Methodist Church rndtf'{I tlrn namns of tho dnad. and 12 small whit!'. can­cf fps wnrn lighl<\d for tlrn vic­tims. Tim Knrln1~ .Ir.. who of'tnn attl\lldPd tlw d1urch, was one of thosn killml in thn collapse. 
The /\ggin spirit is strong, :mnior pastor Charlns Anderson told the rongrngation. But "the spirit '.!r Agginlancl is not nnough. 
l.ocal, stat<) and l'ednral offi­cials pla11nml to meet Monday to map out an invt1stigation strat(\gy. But l\nd11rson said the answers would do littl!) lo com­fort thosu lcift bdiind. 
"l\nswcrs won't hold your hand," he said. "Answers won't hold ytiu in their arms. and answ<irs will not sit by your bedside 011 a sleepless night." 
Thren of' the victims were buried Sunday. .Jamie Hand. 19, an environmental design major and artist who sang at her church, was buried near her home in l lenderson, 
I\ busload of l\ggies attendnd tlrn f'unernl. several or whom gat.hnred in front of her casket to sing tlw "l\ggie War Hymn." 
"JI' llendnrson was a magical kingdom. Jamie L.ynn Hand was without a doubt its 
"I'm here to help the
princess," Rev. Hon Barnoy Aggie family from what 
told about has been a tragic
I,500 mourn­
situation in the state 
ers. if'I" ,.
Sorvices o ,exas. wnre held in Austin for 
George W. Bush
Christophnr 
Governor of Texas
Broen, 25, an l\&M graduate who had returned to help pass on the bonfire traditions. 
In Katy, ,mar llouston, a funeral was held for Christopher Lee Heard, 19, a pm-engineering major and a 1999 graduate of the Marine Military Academy. a private military prep school in l larlingen. 
Almost 100 young men in uni­form l'rom the academy and the 
Saint MatsCollegg 
NOTRE DAME · INDIANA 
Th• N•tlon'• PtWml•flC•thollO Worn•n'9 Call•o• 
27th Annual 
/\&M Corps of Cadets attended 




baffle Balkan nation
the service. lleard's drill instructor recalled him as a prankstnr who would fill boots with shaving cream. Others remembered his love of bunting and fishing. 
At First Baptist Church in Bryan. about 50 students knelt around the altar and prayed during a moment of silence. At !Bast eight of' the students killed in tho accident attended the chu1:ch in the last month. said minister Tim Owens. 
When Owens invited people lo speak on what they were 
Associated Press 

SOFIA 
While many Bulgarians think President Clinton's visit will boost their small Balkan nation's image, they are baf­lled by the high-level secu1·i­ty that some say surpasses that of Soviet-era state visits. 
Clinton, the first U.S. presi­dent to visit this former com­munist nation, was to arrive 
thankful for in 
late Sunday at the invitation 
the pre­
of President Peter Stoyanov. 
Thanksgiving 

He is to meet with Bulgarian 
service, one 
leaders before leaving early 
Tuesday.
man said. 
"Thank you for 

Traffic in this city of 1.2 
giving me and 
million is being diverted l'or 
my fellow co­

three days because of 
Clinton's visit. Local oflicials
workers the 
ability to res­

have set up a crisis center 
cue some of 
and are ready to dispatch 
the Aggies 
special teams of municipal 
workers to respond to pqssi­
from the bon­
fire." 
ble security threats, remove 
Seven people remained hospi­talized Sunday, two in critical condition. 
Officials have said about 70 people were. stacking the 40­foot pyramid of logs for the annual football game bonfire when the pile gave way early Thursday. Some students were hurled from the structure; oth­ers were trapped in the shifting logs. 

illegally parked cars or switch on power reserves should lhe lights go out. 
The preparations have offended many Bulgarians. Rumen Ovcharov, an opposi­tion leader, said former Soviet Premier Leonid Brezhnev caused less upheaval when he came to town. 

"I think that the Americans are mistaking this country for Kosovo," said Prime 
Minister Ivan Kostov. rnf'er­rin g to the war-ravaged province Clinton is to visit Tuesday. 
But by and large, many of Bulgaria's roughly 8 million people see Clinton's visit as a moment in the international spotlight, with Sofia squarely in the middle. 
The president will seo a
LONDO:N SU-1\,I_l\,f_ER 
spruced-up Sofia when he addresses the people at St.


PROGRANI 
Alexander Nevsky Square, 

Thinkofus 
asyour
scttool bus. 

olidays, semester breaks or heading home lor your sister's wedding, ii going home means catching a plane at Midway or
Courses offered in History, Art, Sociology. 

O'Hare, the best wav to the airport is United Limo. 
Frequent service, all day from campus gets you there on schedule. And when it's time to hit the books again, we'll pick you up at the airport and bring you back to 
For further information contact: 
Professor David Stefancic 

school. No hassles, no problems. 54 Madeleva Hall, Room 347 For information ~rid schedule con6ult your ,,ave! agent or caR 
Saint Mary's College Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 

800-833-5555 
(219) 284-4462 

www.busvtlle.com 
e-mail: dstefanc@saintmarys.edu Fax: London Summer Program (219) 284-4866 

I JNITl=I) IIMO 
.._,,,, I 'Wa • ----• ¦ Y 1'-" Your Airport Connection, O'Hare & Midway, All Oay.,. Every Day 
the symbolic birthplac11 of Bulgarian clemocrncy, wlwrn the first opposition rallins took place in I981J. 
The cobbleston n s tnw ls around tlrn square and elso­whern in the r.itv have lrncn cleaned, and i.hP statPly chestnut trees that linc them have been trimmed. Numerous potholes wore filled virtually ov11rnight and American nags llut.ter from buildings that once bore Communist Party's symbols. 
"It's very important to hav1\ Clinton hern," said Planwn Yordanov. a 50-vear-old ontrnpreneur. "Tl1is shows tho world that tlrn (d1imocra­t.icJ changes in tho country am real." 
Throughout the Cold War, allegiance to the fornrnr Soviet Union was strongor here than anywlwrn else in Eastern Europe. Although Bulgarians look to tlw streets en masse in 1989, they failed lo fully dnft!al communism. 
Successive governments of unreformed Communists ruled Bulgaria for seven years, driving tho economy to ruin. The average monthly salary remains about $100. 
In 1997. a united opposi­tion won a crushing victory, ushering in a reform-minded government that won strong international support. 
But persistent corruption and politically motivated dis­missals have led to public discontent. Despite a stable currency and low inflation, many people want to see quicker results from reforms. 
Clinton's visit is also seen as an expression of support and gratitude to the Bulgarian leaders for granti­ng NATO use of its airspace during the bombing of Yugoslavia last spring. 

page 4 
ISRAEL 
Russian military aid builds Iran's strength 
. Israel fears Iran may soon develop nuclear capabilities 
Associated Pre!:iS 
TEL AVIV 
Unless the United States pressures Russia to end its military assistance to Iran, lhc Islamic republic will pos­sess a nuclear capability with­in live years, a senior Israeli military oflicial said Sunday. 
Israel has intelligence that Iran plans to upgrade its Shahab-3 ballistic missile, currently still in the testing phase, to make it capable of carrying a nuclear warhead and to extend its range to 1,300 miles, the official said, 
speaking on condition of anonymity. 
The official said that the Iranians were working on advanced versions of the mis­sile, named Shahab-4 and Shahab-5. 
Iran has confirmed testing the Shahab-3, a ballistic mis­sile capable of reaching 800 miles, but says it is purely for defensive purposes. 
The official said that in light of the new intelligence, Israel and the United States were 

I. 
discussing ways to increase pressure on Russia to stop military assistance Israel accuses Moscow of providing Iran. 
Hussia has repeatedly denied reports that it is help­ing Iran develop ballistic mis­siles and nuclear weapons, and has rejected past U.S. pressure. Moscow is helping Tehran build a nuclear power plant that both insist is only for pAaceful purposes. 
The official said Israel regards the com'binalion of surface-to-surface missiles and nonconvcntional weapons in Iranian hands as "a threat to the world." . Israel regards Iran as the chief backer of the Hezbollah, a guerrilla army fighting Israel's occupation of south Lebanon. !'rime Minister Ehud Barak has promised a negoti­ated withdrawal from Lebanon by July. 
The official said that the rnil­itarv would have a withdrawal plan ready for l3arak's approval by next month, Syria is the main power broker in Lebanon, and Barak regards relaunching negotiations with Syria as crucial to ensuring a smooth withdrawal. 
However, he has not dis­counted a unilateral with­drawal, should talks with the Syrians fail to materialize. 
Lt. Gen. Shaul Mofaz, the Israeli army's chief-of-staff, told Israel TV on Sunday that the army was prepared to examine the feasibility of a unilateral withdrawal should the government consider the option. 
The army established its "security zone" in: south Lebanon in 1985 to protect Israel's northern towns from attack. 
Wary of the impending with­drawal, residents of the north­ern towns protested the army's failnre to include them in any post-withdrawal plai1­ning by blacking out street lights Sunday evening and calling for a strike of schools and municipal services on Monday. 

ND AREA STORES: 
•1706 
South Bend Ave (Walking Distance!}243-7738 •SR 23 & lronwood/277-7744 •Indian Ridge Plaza/271-1772 

•52577 
US 31 N {North Village Mall)277-1024 



The Observer . NEWS Monday, November 22, 1999 
' 

Oswald's voice not on JFK tape 
. Assassin may not have made embassy call 
Associated Pre.s 
WASHINGTON 
Hours after President Kennedy was assassinated, FBI agents reportedly lis­tened to a tape of a phone call that a man identifying himself as "Lee Oswald" had placed to the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City. 
They made a startling dis­covery: The voice on the tape was not Oswald's, govern­ment records say. 
This controversial tape has been a question mark in the. assassination investigation since Kennerly was killed. The assassination occurred 36 years ago Monday and only now have new d1>tails about the tape come to light 
The CIA said years ago that tho tapes on which it record­ed lhe call were erased. Documents released in recent years said otherwise. The latest and newest of declassified documents offer more evidence that the tapes survived. 
The discovery that the voice on the tape was some­one other than Oswald was a 

"disquieting discovery because the man who imper­sonated Oswald was still at large," said John Newman, an ex-military intelligence analyst, author and professor at the University of Maryland. 
Oswald was in Mexico City in September and October 1963. During his one-week stay, he contacted the Soviet Embassy and the Cuban con­sulate, inquiring about visas needed to go to the Soviet Union via Cuba. 
It is widely known that the CIA bugged telephones and . took surveH!ance photos at both the embassy and con­sulate. But the agency main­tained that it had routinc>Jy erased and reused tapes of the phone intercepts, A mes­sage from the CIA's Mexico City station to headquarters on Nov. 24, 196:~. said: "HQ has full transcripts all perti­nent calls. Regret complete recheck shows tapes for this period already erased." 
lt was also known that while he was in Mexico City, Oswald had contact with Valcriv Kost.ikov -a man that on·o CIA memo described as a "case officer in an oper-· ation which is evidently sponsored by the KGB's 13th Department responsible for sabotage and assassination." 
State's AssociatiCJn of Residence Hall Students.
Crash 

Cathy Bell, a cashier at the continued from page 1 Bandit Truck Stop, said truck drivers were pulling off the been organized by Penn road all night to avoid dri-
It was the caller who is thought to have impersonat­ed Oswald who links him to lhis Soviet spy unit known as Department 13. 
Newly dcclassif'ied docu­ments -some released in the past six months -say that after the president was shot, a Navy plane carried a top-secret package from Mexico City to Dallas and landed there about. 4 a.m. EST the day after the mur­der. 
rormer 1-"Bl Agent Eldon Hudd, later_ a Hopublican congressman from Arizona, was aboard the plane. 
"There wore no tapes to my knowledge," Rudd said in a telephone interview. "I brought th1i pictures up lf'rom Mexico I and it was my understanding that it was just pictures." 
Documents contradict Hudd 's understanding. A newly released memo dated Nov. 27, 1963, f'rnm FBI headquarters to its office in Mexico City, stated: 
"IT tapes covoring any con­tacts subject !Oswald] with Soviet or Cuban embassies available, forward to bureau for laboratory examination and analysis together with transcript. Include tapes pre­viously reviewed Dallas if th,~y were returned to you." 
ving in the fog. 
"It was almost like a white­out," Bell said, "You would hit, like, a white spot where you couldn't see anything." 
FREE 
COMPUTER HELP 

shoWandTelr 
AT 

ANSWERS ON THE Fly-"$. 
/. ~'-'. 
' 
/ FREE ~­
. PC Show and Tell™ 
T-SHIRT! .,,.. 

.PCShowandTell.com will guide you,
See website 

step-by-step, while you actually SEE
for details 

and HEAR instructions. 
.Thousands  of  FREE  tutorial  shows  are  available,  
including  Microsoft  Word,  Excel,  PowerPoint,  Outlook,  
Hotmail, ICQ, Yahoo and more!  

0PCShowandTell.com is your best source for quick and understandable computer help--FREE of charge! 
Visit www.PCShowandTell.com today! 

orld 
tio 


Monday, November 22, 1999 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
French create new political party 
PJ\HIS 

An influential Frunrh politician inaugurat­ml his new conservative party Sunday, step­ping up compr.tilion in llrn French righl. Charlns Pasqua's mov<'m<'nl, called the Rally for Franui, aln~ady had many supporters and had hnat out llrn m11instrnam conservative party of' l'rm,idnnl .Jacques Chirac in Junn dur­ing European parliamnntary elections. But until this wnuknnd. the party had no charter and 110 official leadership. On Sunday, party rnmnbnrs nwt outside Paris and chose Pasqua as prnsidont and voted for a charter that looks unfavorably on European union. Pasqua, a form,ir inlnrinr minister, lrnlpod found Chirac's Hally for the Repuhlic party in 1976, but Im eventually grew uncomfortable with fht\ p11rty's evolution. 
Indiana man kills three 
ANGOLA, Ind. 

A man angry al buing thrown out of a party in northeastern Indiana returned with a gun early Sunday, killing three people and injuring two others before taking his own life, authori­ti£is said. Among the injured was a Steuben County sheriff's deputy who responded to the 911 <'.all. Deputy John Araque, 31, was hospi­talized in fair condition with three gunshot wounds to th11 hip and pelvis, authorities said. Polic11 said Kevin Noles, 36, of Angola had bn1m kicked nut of Fat Boy's, a neighborhood har, and had w1tndered next door to a bonfire outside an apartment building. When partygo­crs there escorted him back to the tavern, he threatrned to return with a gun, police said. About 2 a.m., Noles kicked down the apart­ment door and began shooting, said Sheriff Jim! Working. lie said Noles apparently did not know the victims. Roommates Ray Spaulding, 56, and Honald Stevens, 32, were killfid. Julianna Schenkel, 25, later died at a hospital in Fort Wayne, where Victoria Martin, 24, was listed instable condition. A third man was able to escape. 
Gates donates $26 million 
SEATTLE 

The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation has given $26 million to UNICEF to pay for pro­grams fighting maternal and neonatal tetanus, which caused more than 215,000 deaths in d1•vnloping nations last year, the foundation annotmcnd Sunday. The disease, which killed just <Ille U.S. newborn in 1998, is one of the world's most serious ailments affiicting infants and their mothers. It can be prevented by immtmizing women with tetanus toxoid vac­cinn. The hillionaim Microsoft founder and his wife "am dedicated to improving the health of families in the world's poorest countries," said Gates· father, William II. Gates Sr., a founda­tion co-chairman. 
1,@,@IMiMlt41
Dow  AMEx:  
826.12  
]ONES  +).)R  
-31.81  Nasdaq: 3369.25  
0  +22.14 NYSE: 646.12 -2.78 s&r 500:  
11003.89  1422.00  

,2.94 
VOLUME LEADERS 

CPMtMI COll1AQ COlll'tl'HII, 
1uc1to•orr cou 
D&LL C:ONttrfll). IWl'at. COI\P 
'-'.QOJf. COJI.J 
)COit 
co•• 

IJl'Pl. BU• acu• 
cu~o •Y1'tmu 
AT IIOIIS C<>JI• OU.CL• coa» 

71£511 ) SIMII C:11191 PIISI 
c,o •+1.,,.,, .,.u
+6.31 118f'T t-1.l!i •L06J5 16.00 Dltl.c +O.U ••. )725 '1.31 Xll'l'C +l.71 . :l.3100 71,11
..,. +.! • .U •O .t•oo la.H 
COll8 -0.01 -0 .OCllS ,1.31 UM .I ,1;100 106.U
.•.,, 
+O.U .o.un 11.u A'l'IIK •a.ui, 11,31 OllCL •l.10 •l.•J~S 71.11 
'""" .,.n 
Composite Volume: 1,2S4,714,400 
COLOMBIA 


AFP Photo Columbian government extradites accused heroin trafficker, Jaime Orlando, to the U.S. a few hours after a deadly terrorist bomb exploded In Bogota. 
Officials turn over heroin dealer 
Associated Press 
BOGOTA 
Police put an accused heroin trafficker on a U.S. government plane to Florida on Sunday, the first time in nearly a decade Colombia has turned over one of its nationals to stand trial in the United States. 
The handover of 30­year-old Jaime Orlando Lara to the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration comes ten days after a deadly terror­ist bomb exploded in Bogota in what many suspected was a warning against extraditions. 
President Andres Pastrana defiantly signed Lara's extradition papers 

South Africa accepts homosexuality 
just hours after the Nov. 11 explosion, which killed eight bystanders in an upscale shopping district. 
"In compliance with that executive decision, this cit­izen was transferred today to the United States," judi­cial police director Gen. Ismael Trujillo told reporters at a Bogota air base from which Lara left Sunday morning on a DEA plane for Fort Lauderdale. 
Dressed in jeans and sneakers, the handcuffed and heavily guarded sus­pect walked the 60 feet to the twin-engine Cessna without uttering a word, police said. 
Lara was indicted in New York in October 1998. Prosecutors say he headed a smuggling ring that shipped as many as 30 pounds of heroin to the United States on commer­cial flights and distributed it through New York, Houston and Miami. 

Colombia exports 80 percent of the world's cocaine and is a rising heroin supplier to the 
U.S. market. 

Acting on a U.S. request, police captured Lara in Bogota last December. He was among 42 drug sus­pects awaiting possible extradition to the United States. At least 30 of those are Colombians captured Oct. 13 in a sweep authori­ties dubbed Operation Millennium. 
Colombian banned extradition in 1991, capit­ulating to a wave of bomb­ing and assassinations by the now-defunct Medellin 
September. 

Homosexuality remains deeply taboo in central and west Africa, where incidents of harassment occur periodically. African bishops at the Anglican Church's once­a-decade conference in England last year helped push through a denuncia­tion of homosexuality a "incompatible with scrip­ture." Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe, famous for saying that homosexuals are "lower than pigs and dogs," was accosted by gay activists in London in October. He said government-backed drug cartel and its notori­ous leader, Pablo Escobar. The Nov. 11 bombing revived painful memories of that era, although inves­tigators have yet to blame it on drug traffickers. 
Under heavy pressure from Washington, Colombia reinstated extra­dition in December 1997. Lara is the first Colombian sent abroad since the rein­statement. 
White House drug policy chief Barry McCaffrey on Sunday praised Pastrana "for his courage and dedi­cation" in "making a sin­cere effort to confront drug trafficking." 
In the past three years, the cultivation of coca ­the· raw material of cocaine -has doubled in Colombia, McCaff'rey said. 
"gangster gays" were behind the attack, and demanded an apology ­in vain at the Commonwealth summit this month. The climate could not be more differ• ent in South Africa, where former president Nelson Mandela and other freedom fighters cultivated an atmosphere of tolerance after the end of white minority rule. 
The new constitution forbids discrimination on the basis of sexual orien­tation. The new constitu­tion forbids discrimina­tion on the basis of sexual orientation. 
Associated Press 
NELSPRUIT 
Bernalee Rabeira, a 26-year-old makeup artist with a dazzling smile, was crowned the second Miss Gay South Africa in a drag queen contest that would have been unthinkable only a few years ago. The pageant, held Saturday night in a conservative farming hub near Kruger National Park, caused hardly a ripple other than a few irate statements from a local minister ­testament to how far South Africa has come since the rigid morality of apartheid, when homo­sexuality was illegal and gay people were often harassed. Even more so, it illustrated how South Africa has become a bea­con for gay rights in a region where govern­ments are showing them­selves increasingly homo­phobic. 
In southern Africa, leaders of Namibia. Zambia and Zimbabwe have denounced homo­sexuality in recent years. Condemnation came from the presidents of Kenya and Uganda in 

page6 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Monday, November 22, 1999 

Bush skips 
candidates' debate 
Associated Press 
TEMPE. Ariz. 
Front-runner George W. Bush was the only major absentee as four Republican presidential 
hopefuls debated Sunday in Ariz;ona, but he was the center of atLenlion from the partici­

pants. 
Bush 
From tho outset. debate participants sought to distinguish themselves from the Texas governor, who said dur­ing an appearance on NBC's "Meet the Press" he would con­sider raising the eligibility age for Social Security. 
Arizona Sen. John McCain told a home-state crowd he would protect Social Security by separating it from the overall federal budget and allowing workers to invest some of their payments into personal invest­ment accounts. 
"You've got to keep Congress' hands off of it," he said. Magazine publisher Steve Forbes made a similar pitch to 
create private accounts. 
"Bush's plan is typical Washington," Forbes said. "Where they 
retirement 
diplomat Alan Keyes also supported personal control o~er the investment of Social Security funds. He then went on to argue for an end to income taxes. "In that way we will restore control of our money," he said. 
Utah Sen. Orrin Hatch offered no specifics, but said no idea would be rejected. "We're going to have to look at everything." 
The debate at Arizona State University was sponsored by the Arizona Hepublican Party and broadcast live on C-SPAN. More than 2,000 people bought tickets for the event. · 
The Texas governor already has missed two debates in New Hampshire, because of what he said were scheduling conflicts. Asked Sunday on CNN's "Late Edition" about Bush's absence, Forbes said: "He probably has a 
fund-raiser tonight." 
Another Arizona debate was 
added Dec. 6 to accommodate 
the front-runner. McCain 
doesn't plan to be there. 
Of Sunday night's partici­
pants, McCain has established 
himself as the leading alterna­
tive to Bush. He has risen in 
New Hampshire polling resul~s 
to a statistical dead heat and 1s 
running strong in South 
Carolina. two of the states that 
will make their presidential 
picks before Arizona's Feb. 22 
primary. . . 
During a Sunday mterview on 
CBS' "Face the Nation," McCain 
attributed some of his recent 
success to "retail politics." 
"People want to meet you and 
they want to ask you ques­
tions," McCain said. ­
Forbes is presenting himself 
as the only i.rue conservative 
with a chance to win the White 
House. He has a lot at stake •in 
Arizona, which gave him politi­
cal legitimacy with a primary 
victory almost four years ago. 
Unlike he did in 1996, howev­
er, Forbes has yet to make "heavy use of television commer­cials. In his previous campaign,­Forbes used a blitz of ads attacking Bob Dole to upset that 
campaign's front-runner. 
Forbes has started to take on 
Bush. During 
a New York 
promise to 
they break that promise." governor's
find a way, 
" N e w
they break 
Democrat"
that promise." Steve Forbes 
policies
Former presidential candidate 
"Bush's plan is typical speech last 
Washington. Where they w e e k , Forbes said
promise to find a way, 
the Texas 
could lose 
the election. 
For Hatch and Keyes. the debate is an opportunity to introduce them­selves to many voters. 
Hanging over the event is the specter of Bush's absence. 
Bush declined an invitation to the debate so that his first debate appearance would be in New Hampshire, at event scheduled Dec. 2. 
As his lead in the polls nar­rowed, Bush contacted the Arizona party about the possi­bility of another date. The Dec. 6 debate was scheduled. 
Forbes, Keyes and conserva­tive activist Gary Bauer have committed to attend the second event. McCain plans to be cam­paigning in New Hampshire. 
While Bush did not partic­ipate Sunday, his wife Laura was in Phoenix and Tucson for 
-We/re \oo\::ing for new idea$ to make LND 14 TH£ B£'$T £\Jt-\Z-! 
Wf/F-f LOOk!Nll fD\Z-YOU!
0 

Steering Committee 
NOW FORMING!
z 

'P\e,a5e c.ontac.t: kara at 1-32.'31 or 'Suf:iie, at 1-3531 
k?~~ 

Thousands protest at Fort Benning 
Associated Press 
FORT BENNING, Ga. 
Thousands of protesters, many wearing black robes and white death masks, marched onto Port Benning on Sunday to protest human rights abuses they say are_ committed by graduates ol the Army's School of the Americas. 
Several of the 4,800 demonstrators were detained by military and civilian police, including actor Martm Sheen. . 
The protesters carried coffins and crosses bearing the names of victims of vio­lence in Latin America. Once on the base, several lay down on a street pretending to be dead and splattered them­selves with red paint. 
The School of the Americas is best known for its training of Latin American officers who were fighting communist insurgencies. It has long been 

Report: Serious crime falls in 1999 
drops would have been this
Associated Press 

deep." As for explanations,
WASHINGTON experts cited a series of fed­

The number of serious eral, state and local anti­crimes reported to police 

crime measures, a growing
plunged by 10 percent in the economy, the aging of baby

first half of this year, an 

boomers and the decline of
unusually large drop t~at 

crack cocaine markets.
extended the nationwide 

But Fox also discerned "a
crime decline to 7 1/2 years, reverse contagion effect."

the FBI said Sunday. 

"Lawfulness is becoming
Led by drops of 13 percent 

the norm, and it's conta­in murders, 14 percent in gious," he said. "Cities
burglaries and 12 percent in 

around the country are
auto thefts, the preliminary investing in crime programsFBI report surprised experts. 

as· never before. Rather than
The overall crime figure 

hiding behind double-lockeddeclined by only 5 percent. 4 
doors, citizens are getting
percent and 3 percent in the involved in their communi­preceding three first-half­ties." 

year reports. 

He and
This year, 

Blumstein 
among other 

"Lawfulness is also men­
violent 

becoming the norm, tioned the
crimes, rob­

growth of
b e r y and it's contagious." 

community
dropped 10 

policing,
per c.e n t; 

James Alan Fox expanded
rape, 8 per­

incarcera­
Northeastern University professor
cent; and tion · ofaggravated criminals,assault, 7 

crime pre­
percent. In 

v e n t i o n
other property crime, larce­and anti-gun efforts by feder­ny-theft declined 8 perc~nt. 

al and local authorities.
Nationally, the report gives 

Attorney General Janetonly percentage changes 
Reno credited Clinton admin­between the first six months 
istration programs to put
of 1999 and of 1998. 

more police on the street, the"These drops are enormous Brady Act's prevention of the
and encouraging," said 

sale of an estimated 400,000Carnegie 1\1ellon University firearms to felons and grow­professor Alfred Blumstein. 
ing federal-state-local gun
"This is astounding," said 

prosecutions. "But we cannotJames Alan Fox, a professor 
become complacent," Reno
of criminal justice at 
said.

Northeastern University. "No one could have predicted the Republicans credited mea­sures they passed to lengthen prison sentences and pointed out the nation remains above its lowest crime rates. 
The only discordant note in the FBI report was a 1 per­cent increase in murders in cities of more than 1 million residents. But Fox and Blumstein said this tiny rise probably indicates tha! at some point crime reduct10ns bottom out at an irreducible minimum. 
"One percent is an insignif­icant increase," Fox said. "It doesn't signal the numbers will start up but rather there is a point where crime gets as low as it can go." 
The big city murder figurn also is influenced by New York, which saw homicides through July 4 rise from 309 last year to 345 this year, while all other major crimes continued to decline. 
Earlier in the 7 1/2-year 
decline, big city murders 
including New York's saw the 
steepest declines. "But 7-per" 
cent-a-year declines can't go 
on forever," Bfumstein said. 
"The things that would signal 
that a rise in crime i~ coming 
don't seem to be out there ­
violence associated with drug 
markets or guns or economic 
frustration and need." 
Blumstein said, "In the big cities, we've gotten rid of tlrn murderous violence that is readily prnventable through gun controls, drug market_ changes and the strength of the ecqnomy. At some point, we end up with a wide vari­ety of personal disputes." 

criticized for human rights abuses later committed in Latin America by some of those graduates. 
The annual demonstration commemorates the Nov. 16, 1989, killings in El Salvador 
of six Jesuit priests, their housekeeper 

"We don't teach
and her y O U 11 g democracy from the daughter. A 
barrel ofa gun. " 
United Nations panel found Roy Bourgeois 
that 19 of priest the 26 Salvadoran officers involved had 
ately say how many people w e r e detained on base prop­erty. Fort Benning spokesman i{ i C h McDowell said no dncision had been 

been trained at the school: 
The Rev. Roy Bourgeois, the priest who has spear­headed the decade-long protest against the school, said he will continue to speak out as long as combat cours­es are taught there. 
"We don't teach democracy made on whether to file charges against the1~1, although earliP-r he had said trespassing charges would be filed against ~nyone who had been charged in the past. 
Trespassing rould be pun­ished with a jail term of up to six months. 
from the barrel of a gun," Bourgeois said. "It gives me such joy to see so many peo­ple here. There were 10 peo­ple 10 years ago, and now there are 10,000." 
Authorities did not immedi­

Hindus protest Baptist church 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 
Nearly four dozen Hindus picketed outside a churr,h Sunday to protest a Southern Baptist Convention prayer booklet that said Hindus have "darkness in their hearts that no lamp can dispel." 
The booklet, released during the Hindu festival of Divali, contains a numb1ff of other phrases considered offensive by Hindus. It has ignited similar protests in Houston and Atlanta. 

"At any sign of religious intol­erance, we have to spnak up," said Chandra Kany Panse of New England Hindus Against H.eligious Intolerance, which organized the protest at Beacon Iiill Baptist Church. "We would like the convention to drop this attack and apologize." 
Similar guides have been dis­tributed by the Southern Baptist Convention's International Mission Board asking Baptists to pray for the conversion of Jnws and Muslims. 
-David Draper, pastor or Urn Boston church, concnded the booklet was "poorly ti1mid," ·and "arrogant," although he planned to distribute it. 


r----~-----,-----------~-----­
Monday, November 22, 1999 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 

NEPAL 
Priests urge against evangelization 
. Hindu, Buddhist pass resolution against evangelists 
Asmciated rr~ss 
1.UMBINl 

Thrnc wonks after Lim pop11 callnd for missionaries to spwad Catholicism throughout Asia. llindu and Buddhist prini;ts Sunday passnd a reso­lution to stay unitNI against prmmlyLizing. 
Tlw plcdg<1 made by 1,000 dnlngatns f'rom across Asia c11me at the end of a throe-day confornncn in southnrn Nepal. ll mad11 no dirnct rnfornnce to 1'01>11 John Paul II. who rnude the call during his visit lo New Ddhi narlicr this month. 
But the SflllSti ol' crisis within 
ISRAEL 
Leaders may end state of emergency 
A5'ociated Press 
JERUSALEM 

Calling it a step toward pro­t(!cling human rights. lsra11l's government recommended legislative steps Sunday that would abolish the country's 51-ycar old stale of emer­gency. 
Tlw law, adopted whon the Asian religions was evident throughout the conference at this small town close to Nepal's border with India, the birthplace of Gautama Buddha. 
During the assembly, dele­gates publicly and privately said they were concerned by the pope's comments. Many described conversions as a "war against Hindus and Buddhists" and a "spiritual crime." 
"We are worried about our identity. If we become one, we will bocome a majority and no one will be able to touch us," said Acharya Dharmendra. a Hindu religious leader and a policy maker of' the Vishwa Hindu Parishad, or World llindu Council, a major reli­gious group in India that is allied with the ruling party. 
Jewish state was created fol­lowing the 1948 Mideast War, allows Israel to hold Arabs in prison without charges or trial and permits the govern­ment to confiscate civilian goods for military use. 
While only good for 12 months, it has been extended each year. based on the argu­ment that Israel's sensitive 
. Hindu groups in India have accused Christian missionaries of using mostly inducements and sometimes coercion to· gain converts, a charge the church has denied. The ani­mosity arising from the con­version controversy has led to several attacks on Christians in India over the last year. 
For centuries Hindus and Christians have lived in har­mony in India. which todav counts 23 million Christians and 820 million Hindus among its 1 billion population. Muslims, Buddhists and Sikhs account for the rest. 
The saffron-and ochre­robed priests raised their hands tu the chants of Om to approve the formation of a two-member committee to decide how to improve Hindu­Buddhist unity. 
security situation requires giving the government extra­ordinary powers to protect its citizens. 
Liberal Justice Minister Yossi Beilin is trying to abol­ish the law and replace it with regulations that would preserve Israel's security while protecting human rights. 

Right now, there has never been a better time to be part of Arthur Andersen. Creativity and innovation. Enduring personal and professional relationships. The freedom to build and grow. Credentials that are admired and sought outworldwide. Commitment. And great rewards. 
Whether you're interested in Assurance and Business Advisory Services, Business Consulting, Global Corporate Finance, or Tax and Business Advisory Services, Arthur Andersen offers countless opportunities for making our world a part of yours. 
Summer 2000 Internship lnfonnational Session Wednesday, December 1, 1999 7:00 -9:00 PM 
Center for Continuing Education, Auditorium Casual Dress Please bring a current copy of your resume. listing location preference. GPA. & abroad dates. 
If you are unable to attend, resumes may be faxed to 312-462-4369 
ARTHUR 
ANDERSEN 

www.arthurandersen.com Helping rn Ways You Never Imagined 
Arthur Andersen LLP is an equal opportunity employer. 
JORDAN 

King pardons Hamas officials 
Strip, is opposed to peace with
Associated Press 

Israel and advocates its annihi­lation. It is also critical of
AMMAN 

Jordan's 1994 peace treaty with Jordan sent four jailed leaders 
the Jewish state. llamas has
of the Palestinian militant group claimed scores of deadly attacks

Hamas to Qatar on Sunday, 

on Israeli targets in the last 10apparently to live in exile, while years.
25 other members were par­doned in exchange for halting Although Hawahdeh insisted activities in the four the kingdom. headed for 
The move Qatar wnre
"We reject to be deported 
caps a crack­not being
because we are Jordanian
down that deported, 
came after citizens and nobody has the most prominent
pressure the right to send us away
from the of the
from home."
United llamas States, Israel activists said thry had not
and the Khaled Mashaal Palestinians been told
Hamas leader 
for Amman to restrain the Islamic fundamentalist group. The ban on activities would seemingly deny Hamas an important loca­tion in which to operate close to Israel and the Palestinian lerri­tories. 
"The case of Hamas is now considered closed after His Majesty the king fAbdullah 11] decided to pardon all of the group's activists," Prime Minister Abdur-Ra'uf Rawahdeh said. 
Under a deal struck with the government, the group must keep its Jordanian offices closed and prohibit its members from partaking in Hamas activities inside the kingdom. 
Hamas, based in the Gaza they were 
leaving 

Jbrdan and were put forcibly on a plane. 
"We were handcuffed and blindfolded and we were sur­prised to see ourselves at the steps of the plane," Khaleel Mashaal told The Associated Press in a telephone interview from Doha. 
"We reject to be deported because we are Jordanian citi­zens and nobody has the right to send us away from home," said Mashaal, the head of Hamas' political bureau and a top leader in the Gaza-based movement. 
The other three llamas mem­bers taken to Qatar were spokesman Ibrahim Ghosheh and political bureau members lzzat Rushoq and Sarni Khater. 
. ; . . 
":.',/;~.\~~~~~•;_.-;; 


VIEWPOINT 
O
THE page 8 BSERVER Monday, November 22, 1999 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Norte Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Michelle Krupa 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
M. Shannon Ryan  David Rogero  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  
Laura Perelle  

NEWS EDITOR: Tim Logan VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughen SPORTS EDITOR: Brian Kessler 
SCENE EDITOR: Michael Vanegas SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Noreen Gille.pie PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Dalum 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Bryan Lm, 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Bre, Hudar SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kushro 
CONTROLLER: Timothy Lane GRAPHICS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INP0..............631-7471 fAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING....................................63 J-6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4S42 MANAGING EDITOR/AsST. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. J@nd.edu VIEWl'0INT.................................................631-5303 obseIVer.viewpoinc. I@nd.edu SPORTS...........................................,............631-4 543 observer.sporrs.l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MAJly's ............................................. 631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO ........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site ar http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-rhe 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rates of prim ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
to meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of the majoriry of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, lerrers and columns presenr rhe views of the authors and not necessarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lerters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contacr information, 
Quutiom rtgarding Obsmxr pnlicier should be direct­ed ro Editor in ChiefMichelle Knipa. 
~/:.-_~--~-;:. 
.. 
!.. ~ 

[¥. ,;e::t'ffii-dz:~1,~:;;~~:-=··~·....·-. t -~ "=;#­First Aid Drills and Disaster Training 
Every once in awhile, to really get some blood moving, the First Aid Services Team here on campus holds disaster drills. Last April we ran a drill in the Stadium, setting the scenario that a section of the stands had col­lapsed. We prac­ticed radioing the . disaster in and tak­ing control, triag­ing and treating the victims, all the while laughing at the ridiculousness of pretending our advisor had been beheaded by falling debris. After the victims were triaged, tagged and dispatched to the hospital, the club had a little party, sort of a social gath­ering, a thank-you-for-coming-out-and­saving-lives. Recently, when the First Aid Team filed an appeal for more funding, I noted on the appeal. that one of our expenditures from last year had been. "Pizza following the disaster." The Club Coordination Council, though amused, thought I was making that expenditure up. 
I've done other disaster drills since then. In September, the county held a big one at the Michiana Regional Airport, with the premise that a plane had skidded off the end of the runway, killing four and injuring 60. This time, though, instead of being a rescuer, I was working for the American Red Cross Disaster Services Team. We never got near the blood and gore; our job was family support. 
I worked this disaster with a different perspective. We weren't in the action, we were stuffed away in a too-small, airless boardroom in the back hallway of the airport. The mock family mem­bers quickly grew as restless as any real family members would have. We sat there for two hours, waiting. After an hour of hearing constant sirens. we were all tense. The door would open to admit someone returning from the bathroom, and every head in the room would snap up in anticipation of infor­mation. The mock families bonded, inventing stories about their mock loved ones, guessing who would have been sitting next to whom on the plane. In our role as grief support counselors, the other Red Cross volunteers and I wandered around the room, consoling as best we could and mostly being help­less. We had no information for them, and information was all they wanted. People prayed under the guidance of the airport chaplains, tempers flared as families lashed out at anyone they could, and hysteria was beginning to take over when the airline representa­tive came in to announce that lunch was in a half-hour. 


That served to remind us it was all fake. No one was actually injured, no one was actually on the plane that didn't actually go off the runway. The mock family members settled down to while away the next 30 minutes chat­ting, and the grief counselors all chuck­led at how quickly we start to believe that the disaster was real. 
I remember that sudden fiash of real­ization: it could have all been real. I could have been consoling real family members, waiting for word on their loved ones. I work in an emergency room, doing much the same thing, keeping families updated on their patients and keeping patients updated on their treatments. Sometimes I do forget how real their pain is, that the families aren't just acting out a part they volunteered to play and that the patients are truly in agony over the test results. 
Outside of the ER, I tend to take a very American approach to disasters. When I read that 17,000 people died in earthquakes in Turkey, I sometimes forget that those are real people. And certainly the number 17,000 is mean­ingless to me. 
Seventeen thousand is a lot of people. Imagine if, at Saturday's football game, tho entire student section. from section 28 to section 36, were empty. Then imagine that sections one and two and three were all empty, too. That's about 17,000 people. 
Now imagine the entire stadium being empty, and the JACC being empty at a pep rally, and the dining halls at the peak rush of dinnertime. Add them all together in your head. That's about how many people would have gone to funerals or buried the dead from that earthquake. 
Twelve students were killed at Texas A&M last week. Imagine the emotional impact here if 12 Domers were killed in one freak accident. It's not just 12 dead people; it's the hundreds of family members who are grieving, grieving for real. 
Think about the problems, logistical and emotional, of burying or otherwise laying to rest the 10,000 killed in the cyclone in India three weeks ago. That could be you, trying to make arrange­ments for the funeral of your entire family. 
So next time you read that 217 people were killed in a plane crash, remember that that disaster is not a media-creat-. ed happening enacted for your horri­fied, fascinated entertainment. Those are 217 real people, with 217 families who care about them and miss them. 
And if you want to do more than think and take another step towards becom­ing aware of the impact of natural or other disasters on humanity, call the Hed Cross. They'd be happy to get more volunteers, and you will have the chance to understand the reality of dis­asters. 
Kate Rowland is one of the coordina­tors of the First Aid Services Team. She had a great time on the field at Saturday's football game. Did you see her on TV? It was neat. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necces­sarily those of The Observer. 
DILBERT 
THIS IS OUR NEW CEO. HE HAS A REPUTATION AS A TURNAROUND 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"ffyou go far enough south and far enough east. you'llfind a whole continentfull of people who don't believe this.'' 
Mic Detlefsen Notre Dame philosophy professor 
-· . 
VIEWPOINT 

O
THE MonJay, November 22, 1999 BSERVER page 9 
TexasA&M tragedy stuns students, community 
COLLEGE STATION, Texas 

The focling was not unlike waking up to news that the sun had failed to rise. /\ mid-Novmnher morning without the stack was only slightly loss surreal Staff Editorial than a dawn with­out a daybreak. 
Unfortunately. the 
TexasA&M 

tragic facts -at 
University

lnast 11 dead. downs inj1m1d ­am only too real. and thn wnight of sadntiss on campus is 
almost tangible. 
Such II heavy burden cannot be lifted by nwrn words. and litlle can be said about this 90-vear-old tradition that will bn rnmem.bered in another 90 years. 
But to say nothing would do a disser­vic1~ to the memories of our friends. 
To those who k1ww them, we know you an• hurting, but we can never know how much. Tlrn families and frinnds of all thosP affoctnd deserve and have our sohN thoughts and prayers. 
To thosl' who did not know them, we know you ari' hurting too. Long after Wfl know how il happened, we will still lm wond11ring why. In lhn meanlim11, il is important to rnnrnmbcr that this is a time for condolences, not quarrels. 
Much will be said in the coming wmiks that would be better left unsaid. hir this is not thP lime to point lingers of blame or speculate about lhe future of Bonfire. 
Whal is appropriate instnad is silence. 
It would b11 wrong lo turn this tragedy inlo an opportunity for loud debate. The lives lost arn worth much morn than angry arguments, and rnspectful re0ec­tion should not give place to wrangling ov11r traditions. 
II' thern is a lesson ln be learned from this horrih!li accidnnt, it will strike at the vury lmart of who we are as human lll'ings. 
It will remind us or the inevitable fragility of life and the enduring stabili­ty of f'rinndship. J\nd it will teach us morn than we cvnr knew about the indomitable stnmgth of the Aggie spirit. 
What remains, then, is not to despair, hut instead to discover (IUr lrue worth -to do b11ttcr with the lives we have befrn given in honor of the lives that have been taken. There is nothing else to do. 
Already, the A&M community has exemplified the truism that the worst of tinrns bring out Lim bnst in people. 
Concerned students, staff and com­munity rnsidents have generously pro­vided rnsourccs of' hopt1 and shoulders ()f help. 
But Aggitis expocl no less, and we know we will recover from this blow with Uw dignity and dctcrminalion that make this University great. Flags nying at hall'-masl are not indicative of half­lmarted Aggies. Our hearts are full and howiful. 
It will take timn lo come to tnrms with what seems so surreal. But in the end. we will have learned that in life, the rnal stu!T is the rough stuff. And the rough stuff makes us stronger. 
Thi,; staffeditorial ran in the Texas !l&M Uni11ersity paper. The Hattalion, 011 No111m1f,er 19, 1999 and is reprinted r:ortrtesy oftlze lJ-Wirir 
J'he uiews expressed in lhis column are those ofthe author and not necces­sari/y those ofTlw Ob.<:erver. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Can't we use food waste for farms? 
l just got back from South Dining hall tonight, and after a few students asked me to dump my wasted food into a trash bin, I got to thinking. I thought to myself, "Finally, they're going to do something with all of the food we waste here." I was then told by one of the students that they weren't really doing anything with the food waste; they were just simply collecting it to see how much food was wasted. My mind was boggled. 
I had read a few of the letters in last weeks Observers about the "Students for Clean Plates" and their mission to reduce food waste in the dining halls. I must admit how glad I was to see that someone was raising issue with our wasteful tendencies. However, it seemed to me that this was not an issue that warranted an all out hunger strike or anything of' the sort. The fact is that the students here pay very well (about $8 a meal} to eat a wide selec­
. tion of as much food as we desire. We should be able to take what we want and not feel tremendous guilt for doing so. At the same time, hopefully most parents have Instilled the concept of "take what you want, eat what you take" to their children, and hopefully we practice this as often as possible. Beyond all of this, there seems to be a very simple, common-sense solution to the wasted food problem at Notre Dame. 
Most people are aware that food that goes unused from the kitchens in the dining halls is donated to local home­less shelters and other charitable causes. My question is; why can't the waste food also be put to use. I always thought it obvious, but I guess not. Here in Indiana there ought to be plen­ty of farmers who would be able to use the slop food to feed their livestock. 

Why don't the "Students for Clean Plates" contact local farmers who might be interested in receiving donat­ed slop for their pigs and other ani­mals? Maybe this has been considered before and there is some catch that I'm not considering, but since this is a system that other environmentally aware institutions have already adopt­ed, 1don't see why Notre Dame Food Services couldn"t do the same 
So, next time you're at the dining hall, don't feel bad about eating what­ever you want. but please, do your best lo reduce your food waste. Furthermore, let's hope the food we do waste might be put to a better use than to just occupy landfill space. 
Dave Clark Junior, Keough H.tl November 18, 1999 

Students respond to Cowboy Mouth 

Concert worth every penny 
In response to Mr.McKeever's letter in Wednesday's Viewpoint section, I would like to defend Cowboy Mouth to all the people who may have read his Jetter but didn't get a chance to come see the show tonight. Far from being a "struggling, washed-up, one-hit wonder," Cowboy Mouth is a wonderful col­lection of musicians and people who love what they do and love making other people feel great. True, I was in the majority of people who weren't terribly familiar with their music and could sing along to maybe two or thrne songs, but that didn't stop me from having a great time. Mr. McKecver's letter is indicative of a trend I have noticed in my short time here at Notre Dame. People need to realize that just because something is not wildly popular or well-known, doesn't mean that it can't be pretty cool. IT'S OKAY TO THY SOMETHING DIFFERENT EVERY NOW ANO THEN. I did, and l think I'm a better person for it. I would even go so far as to say that the money I spent on my ticket is the best $10 I have spent here. I'd like to share some wisdom with the people who weren't there last night -I know many people were studying and doing what you normally do on Wedncsduy nights -so here are the secrets to happiness, according to Fred, Cowboy Mouth's frontman: 
1) Life is too short to spond with someone who doesn't realize 
how special you are. 21 Life is too short to spend it doing something that isn't fun. 
3) No matter what anybody tells you, if you believe in your­
self, NOTHING is impossible! God bless you all. He certainly has blessed me. 
Kristen Caponi 
Freshman Cavanaugh Hall November 18, 1999 

SUB announces open forum 
At first, l was tempted to answer Patrick McKeever's letter with anger. Ilowever, I realized that this would not help him or the situation that Student Union Board faces. I will grant Patrick thn fact that Cowboy Mouth is nol the most widely known band, but we were willing to take a risk on a band that has won numerous rock awards and continuously sells out shows at other campuses across the country. The question of what are Notre Dame students willing to attend is one that we !'ace in SUB all of the time. We constantly try to provide entertainment that will take students out­side of the Notre Dame bubble. We pour hours (more than most would realize) into providing entertainment and events for the Notre Dame community. I can't begin to tell you the amount or times that l have been asked how much I get paid to spend over 40 hours a week in 201 LaFortune. Well, everyone in SUB gets paid the same -not one cent. What benefit do we get? Well, we do it for the pure enjoyment of seeing our fellow stu­dents happy. 
That is exactly what distresses me so much about Patrick McKeever's article regarding Cowboy Mouth. It is very easy for him (and others) to sit in his dorm room and criticize the months of work that have gone into this concert when he is completely unaware of what really takes place with Concerts and SUB. As a result of letter, and as Board Manager of the Student Union Board, I decided that I want to know exactly what the stu­dent body would like to sec brought here to cam­pus. Therefore, the Student Union Board is announcing an open forum meeting on Tuesday, December 7 at 7:30pm in the Montgomery Theater in LaFortune. Anyone with any ideas or concerns is welcome to att,md and share their thoughts. I hope to see Patrick and many more of you there. In addition, anyone on campus is wel­come to join SUB at any time. 
Finally, for thos0 of you who did not altond the concert, I am sorry that you didn't tako the oppor­tunity to witness a tremendous live show. It would have been worth it, 1promise. Just read what the South Bend Tribune had to say about the energy and excitement that Cowboy Mouth provided. Over tho past few years SUB has brought bands in that perhaps weren't huge name bands at the time, but have proven themselves pretty soon after visiting the infamous Stepan Center (i.e., Beck, Ben Fold's Five, Ani Difranco, Wilco). In the futurn, trust those who put hours of hard work into the events that are brought lo this campus. We believe in what we are doing. Your interest and support will only help us to bring bigger and bettPr events in the future. I hope lo sec you all on December 7th. 
RossJ. Kerr 

Board Manager. Student Union Board November 18, 1999 

O
THE 

page 10 BSERVER Monday, November 22, 1999 
THEATER REVIEW 

Student director helps 'Engine' drive well 
By BRIAN SEAMAN Scene Theater Critic 
The la.st lime a student directed a mainstage production at Notre Dame, the result was one of the most highly inventive and entertaining evenings of theater seen on this 
voice announces into the microphone in . 
the radio studio that "The fair is now 
closing," commenting on the action and ·reminding Lang of her impending peril. 
Such commentary from the radio 
actors added a needed sense of depth to 
the show, moving the action from the 
readily plausible and extending it into 
the sublime. This was 
campus for a very an appropriately cre­long time. "The Water ative choice by 
This past week­Bonifield, and it truly end's production of Engine" helped the odd and David Mamet's "The strangely theatrical Water Engine," 
devices seem more directed by senior plausible. Elaine Bonifield, The most alarmingly continued this tradi­
out offive shamrocks theatricality used in tion. The mark of this production was the director was so that of the Chain
Director: Elaine Bonifield 
evident in the pro­Letter, a sultry torch duction that one singer whose musical 
could not do any­A Film, Television and interludes introduced thing but praise the Theater production one of the larger 
director for all she was able to do. 
"The Water Engine" tells the complex story of Lang, a young inventor who cre­ated an engine that uses distilled water as its only fuel. Due to such an impor­tant and potentially lucrative invention, Lang is left to fight for her engine and her life against the most motley of adversaries. 
In order to tell this story, Bonifield structured the tale as a radio show, one in which the studio acts as a metaphor and a source of commentary for what is going on around it. This structure was highly inventive and effective, most notably when the actors straddled the two realms. The actors were constantly in motion; for even when they were not in the scene occurring elsewhere, they were reading their radio scripts and changing costumes. 
In one highly affecting scene, Laqg begins to realize her predicament while at a science exhibit, and a God-like themes of the produc­tion, the interconnect­
~ edness of man. As played by Katie Sise, the Chain Letter was an omnipresent observer whose smooth voice and swinging hips constantly reminded the audience of what we were to focus on. She was of the Greek Chorus, embodied here in a sexy black dress. While the larger importance of the Chain Letter charac·ter and her message was not discovered by many in the audi­ence, her presence as she moved around the theater was highly effective, and she added a sense of ironic mystery to the story. Joining Katie Sise onstage were nine other actors who could not have been better cast. They all seemed to embody the characters they were playing, even when shifting effortlessly between per­sonas. While this technique of one actor play­ing several roles was intriguing to the 
audience, it some­times led to mis­taken identities by the audience, not realizing that one actor is not play­ing a prior charac­ter in disguise, but rather playing a whole new char­acter. 
Despite this small problem, the actors were defi­nitely up lo the challenge that a Mamet play pre­sents. 
Playing the IP.ad character, Lang, Erin Lutterbach showed a complex combination of strength and fragility, as if she knew the whole time that her engine would never be fully hers. In a show that hinges so much on the central character, Lutterbach defi­nitely helmed the cast with the ablest of skill. 
While the acting ensemble was equal­ly effective and skilled, the most enjoy­ably energetic performance of the evening was given by Victoria Eleanor Bradford in her portrayal of Bernie, a young girl with curly locks and a Shirley Temple voice. 
It was refreshing to watch someone· play a child onstage with a sparkling wit and a fascinated eye -as a child really is -rather than a foolish caricature, as if every child in a play must be a combi­nation of Annie and Oliver. 
-Yet, despite the mastery of the work by both actors and director. the singular problem in the production seemed to be the convoluted and unengaging story. Despite a clever concept, Mamet writes in such a fragmentary way that his audience is never able ~o really relate to the characters or their outcome. 


When the heroine ultimately met her tragic death, there was surprise from the audience, but very little sympathy. The characters may have been written to create distance from the audience, but at times, they seemed to be lost withfo the plot, thus causing the superb direction and concept to be even more remarkable. 
Yet, despite this small problem, "The Water Engine" proved to be an enjoy­able and successful evening that was not so highbrow that it could not be enjoyed. Perhaps this could be a hint for later seasons. 
BOOK REVIEW 

Monk's 'View' sheds light on higher education 
chapter entitled "Presidential Roles and teaching, Malloy offers his opinions on all and enjoys completing crossword puz­By CHARLES SKRINER . Responsibilities." Malloy details the large aspects related to the art, from how an zles. Scene Book Critic number of responsibilities that fall on a administrator relates to a university's In part three, "The Collegiate World," 
president's shoulders. For example, as teachers to the different teaching meth­Malloy looks at some of the issues in 
"Monk's Reflections: A View from the the most visible member of the adminis­ods and styles that appear in today's uni­higher education that are not strictly Dome" is an outstanding book comprised tration, a president's presence is often versity. related to academics in chapters entitled of Notre Dame President Father Edward required by the media, and due to its visi­Malloy then turns his attention to "Residentiality," "Intercollegiate "Monk" Malloy's views on certain issues bility, the presidential office is often "Research and Scholarship," which make Athletics" and "Religious Mission and in higher education, as seen through his made the subject of student protests. up the other portion of a professor's Identity." The topics covered in these own experiences, primarily those at A president must constantly work to responsibilities to the university. Malloy chapters probably hit closest to home for Notre Dame. raise funds. Malloy carefully explains most undergraduate students. 
In other words, the book presents writes of his own the entire process "Residentiality" covers such familiar "Monk's Reflections" as seen from "A experience that "in "Monk's Reflections: , of moving from issues as alcohol, drugs, race and coresi­View from the Dome," and that happens one sense I could say graduate student dentiality. In "Intercollegiate Athletics," to be the very appropriate title of the almost all my deal­A View from the to doctoral candi­Malloy looks at his own experience as a book. Malloy organizes his book into ings ... are connected date to collegiate college athlete, one which was, surpris­three parts: "The University President," with fund-raising." Dome" faculty member ingly, somewhat negative. Ile also exam­"Academia and the Life of the Mind" and Fina.lly, the presi­
doing scholarly ines current issues and topics such as the "The Collegiate World." In eac_h part, dent is the primary research, a NCAA, boostnr clubs and Title IX. Malloy examines different aspects of administrator or deci-process tha L is Finally, "Religious Mission and higher education both in a general sAnsA sion-maker of a uni­probably quite Identity"· explores the Catholic character 
out offive shamrocks 

and more specifically at Notre Dame. versity. With all of the unfamiliar to the of Notre Dame, including a discussion or Malloy opens with "The University pressures and reader who is not the recently debated Ex Corde Ecclesiae. President" by examining the process by responsibilities that a college profes­"Monk's Reflections" is ah excellent
Author: Edward Malloy

which one becomes a university presi­come with the job, il sor. For this rea­book for completing and enriching one's dent. He explains there is no preferred can be easy for a son. this chapter is understanding of higher education in course for one to take in becoming the president to become lilied with discontent one of' the most interesting and enlighten­goneral and Notre Dame in particular. president of a university and often, the or anxiety, but happily, Malloy reports, "I ing in the book. Malloy's writing style is very readable process "sHems to be as much serendipity can honestly say that I've enjoyed my In ,the final chapter of part two, Malloy and friendly. making the book accessible (or providence) as anything else." Malloy time as president -it has allowed me to explores his own love of reading as an to the general reader who is not directly emphasizes that each president's path is play a significant role in an institution in activity to enrich "the life of the mind." involved with higher education. unique, and he takes the reader through which I believe deeply." Malloy calls this chapter "the most per­For the Notre Dame undergraduate his own experience that led him to · Part two of the book is devoted to sonal in the book," and accordingly, he student, "Monk's Rellections" is essential assume tho title of president of Notre "Academia and tho Life o[ the Mind," in reveals a few things about himself related in that it summarizes the current statfl or Dame on Julv 1, 1987. which Malloy examines tht~ professorial to his passion for reading. For example, affairs in higher education at Notre Dame 
Malloy th;,n allows the reader a rare responsibilities of teaching and research Malloy relates how bis parents fostered and provides a closer look at the man glimpsP at the day-to-day life and experi­and explores his own love of reading. In his interest in reading and how he cur­who presides over the University during ences of a university president in the the chapter devoted to the subject of rently reads about five newspapers a day one's time at Notre Dame. 


NSIDER 
Monday, November 22. 1999 ossi:RvER Notre Dame vs. Boston College 
Eagles soar above Irish, 31-29 
Hy KERRY SMITH 
A"i.,1,,m Spom Editot 
l.11sl yPar, NolrH Damn machi a kPy dPl'P11sivP stand in tlw f1na I !WcrnHls of tlw l'omth quar1.<1: to hold Boston Colhig1\ at bay for tlw :11 -2(i Irish win. but Sat11i:dc1y. it was tht' l;aglns' turn 
t.o 11rnk1· a stand ol' their own. 
Tlw .Irish canw close, hut ii rnuldn't put 1111ough points on llH' huard in the fourth quartPr for llw win. Notrn Danrn racnd against th1i clor,k, fitiling to come from bnhind and losing 3l-21J at Notre Danw Stadium. 
Fagl1~ quarlorhack Tim llassolbnck thrnw for thrno touchd1iwns and rushed rm, a f'ourfh. !wiping llw Eagles to lllf'ir nighlh win and snapping i1 f'o11r-y1111r losing strnak to the 
Irish. 
"I givt\ Boston Colloge crndit. .I 
thought lhoir quarterl.H.1.ck 
playNI rtmlly well." said Irish 
lrnad coach Bob Davin. "Ile can 
run. lie gave us some differnnt 
looks and Im mad1• a l'Pw plays 
throwing tlw l'ootball." 
With tlw loss. lhn Irish foll to 
!i-f, 011 tlw season, Prasing any 
channi fi1r a bowl game appear­
ancn and leaving the program 
struggling to end tlw spason at 
thn ,;iOO mark. 
Tlw Irish snc1111dary struggled 
lo rontain llassl'lbeck. who 
lhn•w for 272 yards and rushed 
for anotlwr 60, in orni nl' his bnst 
1wrl'ormancos ol' tlrn season. 
"It's hard to win when you givP up 442 yards and '.1 I points," said Davie. "Wn'ro struggling a little bit on defonsn. I think the s«icondary is playing OK, but ovnrall on del'ensn, w1•rf' struggling." 
()11artcrback .Jarious Jackson lt!d an nxplosiw Irish Sl!Uad to lwo touchdowns in thn opPning 1iight minutes ol' thn first quar­ll'I', giving tlw Irish a quick 14­poinl advantagn. 
.Jackson ca!IW 0111. throwing in 
Noln• Ilanw·s opPning olfonsive play. co111iecti11g with wido Six years ago Boston College kicked a game-winning field goal on fourth-and-1 to end Notre Dame's hopes of a National l'nt'.niv1•1· Haki N1dson for a 45-Championship. On Saturday, the Eagles' William Green converted this fourth-and-1 to end Notre Dame's hopes of a bowl appearance. yard n•n·ption, spnarlrnacling a 1/.J-yard drive lo tlw nnd zone. when his pass to wide receiver scoring drive and rushed the with 3:28 left to bring the Irish but I'm proud of' the way tlrn Fivf' plays latPr . .Jackson pitched .Jamal Burke inside the Notre ball pas.t the Irish goal line with within two at 31-29. Attempting playflrs competed," said Davie. t.lw ball to Tony Fislrnr at the S­Damn 5-yard line resulted in a five minutes left in the third a two-point conversion for the "When you'rn down by 14 yard lirw on llw option aud llrn B.C. touchdown. tying the game before connecting on a 34-yard tie, Jackson threw to flanker points, it's hard lo rally and tailback ran ii into tlw 11nd zmm at 14. touchdown pass three minutes Joey Getherall, but the ball went come back to win thn gamn ... tu pul tlw Irish on thn board. B.C. look the lead with 1:16 into the fourth quarter putting through the receivers hands !'or All you ask is that guys give that 
Forcing t.lw Iiaglt\S lo punt on remaining in thn half when the Irish in a 14-point holo. the incompletion. kind ol' effort and play <,O min­tlwir nnxl poss11ssion. tlm Irish llassdback moved the Eagles to The Irish, who have produced "I tried to get Joey in the back utes and l think we did that, quickly took ovnr on offense within four yards of the Nolre three fourth-quarter comebacks of the end zone, but I think we espedally the snniors." again und charg1•d clown the Dame goal line, setting up an this season, rallied with six min­were on two different pages," Saturday's game marked the li1\ld lo up Llwir lead to 14, as easy field goal l'or kicker John utes remaining in the game, said Jackson. "I thought that Im last home game f'or thn senior lailhad .Julius .l01ws ran tlrn Matich. when Jackson hit Fisher in the was going to sit in the hole but class. Despitn the loss, .Jackson bull 11 yards for tlrn sc·.orc. The Irish took possession of end zone with a nine-yard pass he kept running. The ball was closed out his career at Notre 
But tlw Irish ol'f"nnso turrw<I tlrn ball on thPir own 34-vard on fourth-and-6 to bring the there, but he wasn't able Lo Dame Stadium by putting his cold as quickly as il had hPated lino and managed to tie· tho score to 31-23. come down with it." name in the Irish record books. up. game at 17 on a 44-yard lield But Sanson's extra-point As the final minutes ticked off .Jackson threw for 28:1 passing 
II asiw Iback c·on nticted on a goal attempt by Jim Sanson as attempt was tipped, leaving the the clock, the Irish had one last yards, brining his Sflason total to 13-yard pass lo tight end Bryan time run ouL Irish down by eight. chance lo score, but a B.C. inter­2,586 yards, passing Joo !\rmh. who ran 14 yards to pay A pair of B.C. tour.hdowns in "!\t the time it was blocked, ception by free safety Pedro Theismann's 11)70 rncord nl' dirt 011 !ht' Eaglcis' final drive of the second half vaulted the we said, 'That's going to come Cirino with just over two min­2,429 yards. Jackson also tlw first quarlnr. bringing B.C. Eaglos to u 31-17 lead, leaving back to haunt us,"' Davie said. utes to play sealed Notre Oame's gained anothnr 23 yards on to within snvrn1. tho Irish lo play catch-up latn in Thny were right. fate as the Eagles ran down tho rushing, bring his total yards on 
llass<\lhPck struck agai11 six t.hc fourth. Jones made a key 67-yurd clock l'or the win. offense to 3,02(1, hroaking minUIPs into lhn imrnml quarlPr. llasselhack led a 93-yard punt return for a touchdown "It was a disappointing loss, Theismann's record of2,813. 


player of the game 
Tim Hasselbeck 
Hasse/heck completed 20-of30 passes for 272 yards and three touchdowns. 1/e also was the Eagles' leading rusher with 60 yards on 15 carries and a TD. 
' 
quote of the game 
"He [Davie] said he was going to kick our ass. It didn't happen." 
Tom O'Brien Boston College head coach 

stat of the game 
442 yards of total offense 
The Irish defense couldn't slop the opposing offense for the third straight week. 
page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 22, 1999 
report card 
8-
quarterbacks: Jackson completed 19­0/-34 passes for 283 yards, but was picked offtwice -both ofwhich 
changed the complexion ofthe 
game. He struggled rushing again. 
C-
running backs: The Irish Jailed to gain 
1 oo yards rushing. The running 
game has been awjitl in recent weeks and it has shown on the scoreboard. 
8-
receivers: The Irish went deep on the first play ofthe game. It worked. but they never went up top again. When 
the Irish needed a reception on the 
two-point conversion, they Jailed. 
C 
oflensive line: Granted the Irish had three starters out, /mt Notre !Jame 
failed to control the line of 
scrimmage for the third straight 
game. 
C 
defensive line: They came out fired up early, but Hasse/beck had all day to throw and run. They couldn't stop 
Boston College on short yardage. 
8-
linebackers: Boiman had a sack, Nicks 
led the team in tackles (TO) and 
Denman had seven tackles. 
defensive backs: Jefferson was picked 
C-
on all game and the secondary 
failed to stop the big play -a 
recurring theme this season for the 
Irish secondary. Sanders and Cooper combined for 15 tackles. 
special teams: Jones· 67-yard punl
C+ 
return gave the Irish a chance, bu.t 
Sanson ·s blocked extra point 
inevitably cost the Irish a shot at 
overtime. Hildbold was so-so. 
C 
coaching: Davie continually stresses that the effort was there and that talent isn't the issue. So, could it be 
coaching? 
overall: The Irish played well enough to force overtime at the very least, hut they wound
2.19 
up with a loss instead. 
adding up the nulllbers 
touchdowns scored tiy Boston 
4 
College quarterback Tim 
Hasselbeck 
career losses for Bob Davie ­15 lies Gerry Faust for second most losses in first three years as an Irish head coach 
yards of total offense this season by Jarious 
Jackson -a school 3,026
record 
2,586 
passing yards this 
season by Jackson ­a school record 
yards of Iola! offense by 
442 
Boston College 
35 
average number of points the Irish have given up in their last 
three Iasses 
last season Notre 
1·986
Dame wasn't bowl 
eligible 
6 
points scored by a wayward squirrel in the closing 
moments of Saturday's game 
IRISH INSIGHT 


Time had expired, the squirrel had crossed the end line and the score­board above Notre Dame Stadium read Boston College 31, Notre Dame 29. 
And as the victorious Boston College players walked off the field, through the tun­nel leading to their locker room, one by one they paid tribute to Mike Poidomani. Standing at the end of the tun­nel, with Touchdown Jesus in full view and Eagle fans outside the gate celebrating, Poidomani embraced each player. The Boston College strength coach has been an integral part of the Eagles' turnaround from a 4-7 team a year ago to their current 8·2 record and a place in the top 25. 
"We got 'cm," the elated Poidomani told his players as they headed to the locker room. 
That scene is becoming all too com­mon. 
Six times this season, the opponent has knocked off the mighty Irish. A year removed from a perfect record at home, the Irish ended their 1999 home campaign with a 5-2 mark at Notre Dame Stadium. 
Bob ·oavie likes to say that every time an opponent plays Notre Dame, they always regard it as their biggest game of the season. 
Why don't the Irish treat it the same? 
Because emotion, motivation and playing hard for 60 minutes has noth­ing at all to do with the strength of your opponent. Or how many players you have injured. Or how talented you are. 
It comes from within. And that's what been so frustrating for Irish fans this year. 
Boston College had plenty of rea­sons to be excited for Saturday's game. For starters, they were denied a victory in last year's game when running back Mike Cloud was stopped four times within the 5-yard line. 

They used that defeat as a source of inspiration. In the offseason, a photo of Deke Cooper stopping Cloud on fourth-and-1 to seal the 31-26 victory was posted in the Eagles locker room. The caption was entitled, "How hard are you going to work this summer." 
This week the slogan was changed to "How hard are you going to work this week." 
On Saturday, the quote of note read "Who wants it more." 
The Eagles also felt slighted for being 10-point underdogs to a .500 team when thAy were 7-2 and in the top 25. 
Then came Friday night, at the pep rally, in a full to capacity Joyce Center, when Davie added fuel to the already flaming BC fire. 
Addressing the attendees, in the middle of his usual monologue on how big a game this is and how we have the best band, cheerleaders and student body in the country, Davie turned to a group of Boston College students who were situated in the bleachers. Looking over his right shoulder, Davie said "that's another reason right there to kick Boston College's ass." 
When word of Davie's comments got back to the Boston College play­ers, they took it to heart. 
"Sure, I said it in front of 12,000 people," Davie said referring to the pep rally. "I think that's what a pep rally is for, but I wouldn't take things so seriously." 
The BC players obviously did. As too, they did with an unconfirmed report that Davie had guaranteed a victory for the Irish. 
Davie denied ever making such a claim. 
"That's totally false, totally ridicu­lous," Davie said referring to the alleged guarantee. "I never made a statement like that in 20 years of coaching and I detlnitely didn't make a statement like that this week. I'm not overreacting to it because I think it's all kind of silly." 
Nevertheless the Eagles used it as a motivating force. Corny, overused catch phrases caught the BC player's attention. 
Something the Irish were missing. For no apparent reason. Notre Dame could have found moti­

vation in several areas. It was the last home game ever for a group of seniors who had been through the resignation of a coach and no bowl victories.' A victory over Boston College would have kept the Irish in the bowl picture. They were playing the only other Catholic-affiliated school in Division 1-A football, a rivalry that stands right behind the annual clashes with USC and Michigan. 
With representatives from the Insight.com bowl game present, the Irish came. out like they were ready to head to Arizona for the Christmas vacation. They scored two quick touchdowns on runs by Tony Pisher and Julius Jones within the !irst eight minutes of the game. The players were pumped, the coaches were emotional and the 80,012 fans had visions of winning by a large margin for the first time since the Arizona State game. 
They proved that they have the tal­ent to beat Boston College. 
But then came an interception of a Jarious Jackson pass by the Eagles' RaMon Johnson. Suddenly the momentum turned to Boston College, as they scored on the ensuing possns­sion. 
It stayed that way until midway through the fourth quarter when Julius Jones's 67-yard punt return narrowed the margin to 31-29, giving the Irish hope. Notre Dame had another chance, with the ball on their 27-yard line. But a Pedro Cirino interception sealed the victory for the Eagles. 
"When you're down by fourteen points [the Irish were down 31-17 in the fourth quarter], it's hard to rally and come back to win the game," Davie said. 
Weren't the Eagles down by 14 and didn't they r.ome back to win'? 
"We're a team that goes out there and grinds out every play," said Bryan Arndt, Boston College's leading receiver on the day with five catches for 80 yards. "We're a 60 minute ball team." 
It would be nice if a Notre Dame player or coach could say that ... and mean it. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofth.e author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
Monday, November 22, 1999 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
• 

Irish seniors unable to taste victory 
By BRIAN KESSLER -'P"rts Fdi tor 
Following Saturday's :H-29 loss.to Boston Collogt1, senior dcfensiviJ end l.amonl Bryant pou1Hlod his lrnlmcl against Urn ground in frustration like a warrior who just lost his final battle. 
1ln should havP boon ahlo to raisn his lrnlnwt lo llrn sludt\nl soction with pride af'tnr his final 1101110 victory. 
Snnior split nrHI Bobby Brown Pnwrgnd from tlw lockor room dazed, whill' struggling to hold bac:k loars as lw spokn to the media about the loss. 
Tlrnst' should have ueon tears of joy after walking through the tunnd aml c1d1ihrati11g victory with his teammates for tlw f'i1111l linw in tho Notre Dame lorktff room. 
Unlikt\ Brown, senior safety A'Jani Sandnrs walkt>d right past tho media. murmuring, "C:onw on, you guys." 
IIt> should havo hrnrn able to stop and talk with lhP rnportnrs aho.ut how it folt to win his l'inal gam11 in Notrn Dame Stadium. 
!\ lot ol' things should have btH\11 dif­l'Pr.-nt Salunlay. A lol of things should haw btil'n diffnrmit this season. 
"I wish I could t.ull you what went wrong this s1•ason, but I couldn't Pxplain it.," senior conwrback Dnveron llarper said. "My thoughts arnn't cl1\ar right now. You just work hard and trust nwrything will gd better, and when it d11ns11'l ... Wt-II, this is not tlrn way I wanlnd to go out." 
11 's not. tlw way any ol' tlw Sl\niors wan lnd it to t>ncl. 
"It's very dirfirnlt," Brown said. "My t'yPs an• lill<•d with tm1rs, realizing it's ovPr. This is tlw last ti111n I'll walk up tht\ tunn,d and it's not tlrn way you want it. I didn't gt\l to sing th11 fight ­song for the last tim1•. I don't think words can Pxplain exactly how mysell' or any 111' tlw snniors fo('I, hut lif'n goes 
Oil. 
ThP sPniors had high l'XpPctations t•11t.Pri11g thP snason. 
"I lhought that we Wt'rn going to win l11e national drnmpionship this yoar." s1•11ior llank1ir Haki N!\lson said. 
A national championship was out of tlw qunstion a long time ago and now so is a howl ganrn. 
Stanford over Thanksgiving break. we have a chance for our seniors to fin­coaching changn, no bowl victori.cs,
"Wt\ pretty much thought we'd win Perhaps Notrn Dame can pretend it's a ish this thing off right." lofty expectations. personal adversity ­tlwsP last two ganrns and have a chance Hose Bowl to be played in Palo Alto, The mood in the locker room follow­it's an accomplishment to go out at all.
to at IMst go to a dncnnt. bowl game," rather than Pasadena -one without ing the seniors' last home game proved "I think we're beat up emotionallysophomorn tailback Tony Fislrnr said. 
the parade and the $8 million payoff, of that things weren't right Saturday. more than anything," captain Jurious"Now all thosn dreams are shattered. 
course. "ll was tough. It was quiet," junior Jackson said. "We've had some ups andtisp1icially for thn seniors. Basically, In fact, the only motivation left for the Grant Irons said. "Everyone was just downs, but hopefully we can find somr
thPse last two games worn for the 
Irish and the senior class is to go out feeling for each other, especially the way to pull through."
seniors and unl'ortunatnly, wo camn up with a victory and avoid the first seven seniors. It's their last game and you The Irish seniors couldn't pullshort again." 
loss season in 35 years. always want to send them out on top." through in their final home game.
Thn only ganrn the Irish will play over "Portunately. we have another game After what some of the seniors have Maybe they can !ind a way to win theirthn holidays this season is Saturday's lert," head coach Bob Davie said. "So been through during their careers -a linal game in a Notre Dame uniform.
showdown with Bose Bowl-bound 

AP Poll  scoring summary & stats  ESPN/USA Today Poll  
1 2 3  team Florida Stale (66) Virginia Tech (4) Nebraska  record 11-0 10-D 9-1  points 1,746 1,681 1,607  scoring /Joslon College Notre Dame  1st 7 14  2nd 10· 3  3rd 7 0  4th 7 12  Total 31 29  scoring summary 1st  1 2 3  team Florida State (57) Virginia Tech (2) Nebraska  record 11-0 10·0 9-1  points 1,473 1,414 1,358  
4 5 6  Wisconsin Florida Tennessee  9-2 9·2 8-2  1,474 1,380 1,339  team statistics first downs  BC 23  ND 20  ND, Fisher 5 yd. run (Sanson kick). 7-0 N/J, Jonas 11 yd. run (Sanson klckJ, 14-0  4 5 6  Wisconsin Texn Florida  9·2 9·2 9·2  1,270 1,151 1,139  
7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16  Texas Alabama Kansas Slale Michigan Michigan State Marshall Minnesota So. Mississippi Penn State Georgia  9-2 9·2 10·1 9-2 9·2 10-D 8·3 8-3 9.3 7·3  1,326 1,303 1,253 1,125 1,071 1,021 826 642 616 591  rushes-yards passing-yards comp-att-int return yards punls-a11erage f umbles-lusl penalties-yards lime ofpossession  44-165 277 21-31-0 102 8-38.6 1-0 8-70 33:52  32-95 283 19-34-2 168 7-34.6 2-0 5·32 26:08  BC.. Arndl 27 1d. pass from Has,elbeck (Malich kick), 14·7 2nd BC.. Burke 22 yd. pass lrom Hasselbeck (Malich kick), 14-14 BC: FG Malich 23, 14-17 ND: FG Sanson 44, 17·17 3rd  1 a 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16  Tennessee Kansas State Alabama Michigan Michigan Stale Marshall So. Mississippi Minnesota Penn Slate Georgia Tech·  8·2 10-1 9-2 9·2 9·2 10·0 8-3 8·3 9.3 7-3  1,109 1,0tn 1,044 987 873 854 602 595 479 468  -:­ 
17  Arkansas  7.3  583  individual statistics  17  Texas A&M  7-3  455  
18 Mississippi State 8·2 576 19 Purdue 7.4 452 20 Georgia Tech 7·3 415 21 East Carolina 9·2 382 22 Boston College 8-2 379 23 Mississippi 7-3 266 24 Texas A&M 7·3 225 25, Louisiana Tech 8-2 131 other teams receil'in{J votes: Stanford 105, BYU 47, Oregon 47, Illinois 38, Miami Fla 38, Wyoming 21. Utah 16, Colorado St 9, Hawaii 6, Clemson 4, Virginia 4, Oklahoma 2, Washington 2, Boise St. 1  passing BC -Hasselbeck 20-30-272, St. Pierre 1-1-5 ND -Jackson 19-34-283 rushing BC -Hasselbeck 15-60, Washington 13-45, Rowe 3-36, Green 11­30, St. Pierre 2-(minus 6). ND -Fisher 14·70, Jackson 10-23, Jones 4-2, Battle 2-2, Goodspeed 2-2. receiving BC -Arndt 5-80, Crlllenden 3-52, Washington 3-13, Burke 2·56, Burch 2-22, Ellis 2-19, Zukauskas 1-13, Dewall 1-11 ND -Givens 5-48, Brown 4-61, Fisher 3-56, Getherall 3-31, Nelson 2-49, Holloway 1-25, O'Leary 1-13  BC: Hassolbeck 1 Id. run (Malich kick), 17-24 BC: Burke 34 yd. pass lrom Hassalback (Malich kick). 17-31 4th ND, Fisher 9 yd. pass lrom Jackson (kick lallod), 23·31 ND: Jones 67 yd. punt ralurn (pass failed), 29·31  18 East Carolina 9-2 444 19 Mississippi State 8-2 437 20 Boston College 8·2 413 21 Georgia 7.3 371 22 Arkansas 7-3 339 23 Purdue 7.4 226 24 Mississippi 7.3 174 25 Stanford 7.3 164 other teams receilling 11otes: BYU 58, Oregon 53, Miami Fla 37, Colorado St 23, Illinois 20, Louisiana Tech 19, Virginia 15, Ulah 10, Washington 10, Clemson 9, TCU 6, Texas Tech 4, Wyoming 2, Auburn 1, Boise St. 1, Louisville 1  - 


-Boston College's Jonathan Ordway jars the ball loose from Julius Jones during a punt return in the first quarter. Irish fullback Tom Lopienski recovered.the fum­ble. Jones got redemption with a 67-yard punt return for a touchdown in the fourth quarter. 
HOME FOR THE HOLIDAYS 
The Notre Dame football team will spend the holiday season at home this year. Last Saturday's 31-29 loss to Boston College eliminated Notre Dame from the bowl picture and ensured the Irish a non-winning record for the first time since 1986. Notre Dame takes on Stanford Saturday with hopes of averting its first seven loss season since -1963. 



;z a a 3 = a so a a a 
M 
cene E 

O
THE Monday, November 22, l 999 BSERVER page 11 
MOVIE REVIEWS 
Burton's 'Sleepy Hollow' loses its head 
page.

By MATT NANIA 
It's not much of a mystery. H's a per­Sctnr M ov ic Critic 
functory story of wickod, greedy in-laws 
and small-t1iwn secrets. But the plot 

With tlrn l'o!{gy f'abln "Slnepy llollow,." doesn't seem to boa priority lrnrn. clirrictor Tim Burlon builds a typically dark "Slnepy Ilollow" is primarily something y1•t d1•1ighlf'ul f'ant.asy, nnly to clocapitat(' to look at -another of Burton's oddball liis crnation with anticlimactic exposition !ables in a stylish. visually distinctive uni­ancl a drawn-out. action-heavy linaln. Part vnrse. l•rom "Bectlejuice" to the first two "Nighlmarn on Elm StrPHt" and part "Batman" flicks, and esp1icially regarding 
"Murdnr, Sim Wrot.n," this macabre mys­his stop-motion animated film, "The tery oilers an Pntcrtaining, but tlawBd, Nightmare Before Christmas," and rnmhinatinn of' fun-"Edward hotisi, horrors and Scissorhands,'' the I O n g ll (\ -i ll -C h (' (' k "Sleepy Hollow" girted director has humor. constantly shown his 
Burton and writer 
highly visualizfld and AnclrPW Kt•vin Walkm· humorously macabre (who cul oil' c;wy1wth viewpoint. This tale I'ttl Il"ll¾' s IH!/1 d iI) prnvi<lPs yet more
out offive shamrocks 

"Snvt'n"J IHtVP takPn material ideally suited Washington Irving's for his storytelling "Lq~end or Slc11 PY Director: Tim Burton approach. 
llollow;" a spooky The horseman story abouL a lanky Starring: Johnny Depp, Christina scenes, in particular, Photo courtesy of Paramount Pictures rurnl sclwoltoacher Aicci,.Christopher Walken, Miranda are vividly conveyed Christina Ricci and Johnny Depp star in "Sleepy Hollow." and his confrontations by Burton's unique
Richardson and Michael Gambon

with a mysterious form of spectacle. 
she's inconsistently convincing in her peri­and are accompanied by a montage of "hm,dlfiss horseman," [n Walker's retelling 
od portrayal and shares little chemistry missing scenes. The film would be far and turrwd it into a '90s-style horror-com­of the classic tale, Ichabod Crane conducts with the charming Depp. more satisfying had these details been Pdy. controversial autopsies with idealistic and Despite his valiant efforts to bring depth, revealed, rather than explained. For a Starring .Johnny D11pp ("Donnin Brasm") cheerful enthusiasm. Embodying the char­
subtlety and meaning to what is otherwise filmmaker capable of unique, inventive as Ichabod Crane, "Sh-inpy Ilollow" tells acter with the appropriate ticks and ner­a simple spook-fest, Burton doesn't trust artistry, this disappointing denouement tho slorv of a 1799 New York forensics vous tendencies, Depp is well cast and 
his own craftsmanship or the audience's seems all too hollow. specialist dispatched to rural New York lo quite enjoyable in the role, perfectly play­intelligenceinvestigate a string of decapitations. ing the reluctant hero. 
enough to let 

Basing his lindings solely on scientific fac­Supporting Depp is an exceptional cast the tale of tors and t•vidence, the detective respectful­of familiar faces. Among the residents of 

"Sleepy

ly brushes off the tnwnfolks' allegations of Sleepy I Iollow are Michael Gambon ("The tell
Hollow" a "headless horseman." Insider"), Michael Gough ("Batman"), Ian 
itself. All of the 

llow1wer, Crane soon discovers much McDiarmid ("The Phantom Menace"), 
story's hinted­1J('rsona! evidence to confirm the people's Jeffrey Jones (" Ferris Bueller's Day OIT'') at plot points,outlandish claims -the horseman kills a and Miranda Richardson ("The Crying 
which include 

man right in front of Crane, and the Sf'V­Game"). Genre faves Martin Landau ("Ed 
elements of 

(\J"tld head rolls quite literally into his lap. Wood") and Christopher Walken ("Batman 
witchcraft and 

Still, tlw scinntilic Cra1rn sees there is a Returns") also show up for memorable Weekend Sales
last will testa­

nwthod to the monster's madness: He kills cameos. 
ments, are '.'?'://:::/_-;:-··· . :':·-!1.
ijlll

for a purpos1l, and tho frightened investi­The weak link in the cast is Christina 
recited by the he World ifNot Enough $ 37.2 million
gator rnmains determined to apply himself Ricci ("The Addams Family") as Katrina 
gloating villain 

to thP mystery nf the horseman's ram-Van Tassel. With a fluctuating accent, le~g~.HQll91Jv.... $ 30.5 million 
okerrion ·.. '~SE\1/L $ 13.3 million he Bone Collector $ 6.5 million 
•·.•~grjj{...·... %!ii $. 4..1 million 
nywhere But Here $ 3.3 million htsider $ 2.9 million.~ess~r1g·er $ 2.5 million 
Never say never to Bond 
She is voluptuous (silicone?}, beautiful s t ·re n gt h By JEFFREY Q. IRISH and an airhead. One might call her the department he Bachelor $ 2.4 million Scene Movie Criric poster child for dumb blonde jokes. Her while bringing 
ohri Malkovich $ 1.9 million
character is supposed to be a nuclear a certain sen­"'.•.: ·:, :·:.· "The World Is Not Enough" is the 19th physicist who helps Bond with her deft sitive feminini­and newest lilm starring .James Bond in knowledge of nuclear devices, but she is ty to Bond that Source: Associated Prese
&(ll,si/·~1rr~t~,"

the longnst running film series in history. so unconvincing with her slow delivery of is necessary to It is hardly diffornnt from any other 007 nuclear terminology (in a wet tanktop and sell tickets in the politically correct '90s. He is probably the second best though, l'ilm, hut that didn't hotpants) that most of But this detracts from the original charac­because he looks so natural in every spy disappoint anyone ter that made the series so popular. aspect and knows how to nonchalantly 
who saw in "The World is Not ~~:r;ro~idm!au~i~d 
deliver the double entendres. Roger
it the sold-out ltrnalres opened her mouth. Moore, Timothy Dalton and "the other across America this Enough" On the plus side, guy" just don't seem to have the instinctu­last wrn1k1md. Oscar winner Judi al suaveness of Brosnan, who has an 
Tim film h1L'> all the 
Dench (not a babp) advantage from his early stint on 
drnrar.tnristics view­and Sophie Marceau "Remington Steel." ers have grown to (Braveheartl give The action stunts are again nothing !ovn. 1.ikt~ usual, th<ml out of fiue shamrocks strong female perfor­short of spectacular. From the opening 
is Urn characl!lristic mances as M and boat chase on the Thames Hiver to the martini ord11r Electra King. M's role "Running Man"-esque pipt~!ine pursuit "shaken. not stirrnd" is expanded to recon­and the climactic finish, British direr.tor
Director: Michael Apted

-al the casino, lhe naissance work, a Michael Apted delivers traditional 007 rar chas!'s, tlw visits Starring: Pierce Brosnan, Denise break in tradition that excitement. To take an overused movie to M, Q and probably disappoints quote cliche, "it was non-stop action
Richards, Sophie Marceau and Judi 

Mrnmy11P1my. tlw gun­007 enthusiasts. thrills." 
Dench

fights. the evil villain's Marceau's characler The plot is believably complex and prob­pint. to takn ovnr tlrn is an enigma for most ably the best since "Goldlinger." Thn nnd­world and ol' coursn, llrn balws. oJ'the movin. ing is tlrn best from an action film in 1,pt's talk about th!' babos. Deuiso Pinrce Brosnan plays Bond for the third recent yt!ars, it doesn't seem too long or 
Hirharcls. who plays Christmas Jones, is time and gives another stellar perfor­too short. onn of' tho highnst-caliber women Bond manco. Which brings up tho question: Judging a 007 film is diflicult lmcause has ever sncrn (by ca!ilwr I'm roferring Who is the best James Bond'? one is always looking for tlw charnctnrislic hoth lo tlm sizP of' lwr gun bnrl"(•I and tlw The answor is vory simple b{icauso no Bond traits, but still wanting originality. quality ol' lu~r character -it's a one will ever replace Sean Connery, lllf' "The World is Not Enough" contains all of homonym). Hid1ards is most rnmmnbnrnd original Bond. Ile was strong, cunning Photo courtesy ot MGM/UA the customs, but falls slightly below par in 
f'or !wr 111e1mg1Ht-lrois with Malt Dillon and debonair. Connery was and always originality, particularly with thn villains. It
Denise Richards stars as Dr. Christmas 

and N,!vn Camplwll in "Wild Things." will be James Bond. Brosnan lacks in the is a good 007 film, but not groat. 
Jones in "The World Is Not Enough." 



page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, November 22, 1999 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Ranked opponents wary of early upsets 
Associated Press 
LAHAINA, Hawaii 
The list is impressive ­Connecticut, Ohio State, Duke. Utah and St. John's. All were in the preseason top 25 and all have lost a game this season. 
Since No. 5 North Carolina, No. 7 Florida and No. 24 Purdue are all in the field for the Maui Invitational, which begins Monday, at least two more teams will be added to that list. 
Whatever happened to "Cupcake City," as a well­known TV analyst referred to playing early season mismatch• es? 
"These games don't count against your 27-game schedule and they are a chance to see where you stack up in your league and it's an opportunity to travel whether it's Maui, Puerto Rico or New York City for the Preseason NIT," Purdue coach Gene Keady said Sunday. 
"There's lot of good things about it. It all changed when people realized they had to win so it was a good way to recruit. You don't get credit for win­ning games or even a league anymore. It's about getting to the Final Four. It's a different world." 
The Boilermakers open against the host team, Division II Chaminade, then things get tough with possible consecutive games against top ten teams. 
Florida and Utah State also are in Purdue's bracket, and Monday's other games have North Carolina against Southern California and Georgetown meeting Memphis. 
This is North Carolina's third 
appearance in the Maui 
Invitational and the Tar Heels 
have left as runners-up twice. 
"We've always tried to play a good schedule and it helps to find out -and certainly all eight teams here are here to find out -your strengths and weaknesses and that can only help you down the line," Tar Heels coach Bill Guthridge said Sunday. 
Both Purdue and North Carolina are veteran teams, but Florida has 11 sophomores and freshmen on the roster and even with a 96-61 victory over Florida State, it would seem the Gators need time to play together. 
''Ideally, from a preparation standpoint, we would have liked to have had more than one day of practice from a game Friday night to three con­secutive games like we'll have here," Florida coach Billy Donovan said Sunday. "I try to look at it a little differently in that we'll find out in a three­day period where we're at. This will hopefully force our team to grow up and mature. With the caliber of field in this tournament, there could be some bumps in the road but hopefully we'll leave here a better team." 
Donovan was a member of the first Maui Invitational champion, Providence in 1984. 
"I was on the team but didn't play," he said. "I did have a great seat and watched a lot. It was a free trip to Maui." 
The setting and the level of competition makes this tourna­ment attractive. 
Former Big Ten and Big Eight commissioner Wayne Duke has been the chairman of the Maui Invitational for 10 years. 
"The change in getting teams happened gradually," he said Sunday. "The first thing the coaches used to ask was, 'Who do 1 have to play?' Now they don't worry about who they play, they just want to play." · 
To honor Duke's decade of service, the tournament has named the championship tro­phy in his honor. Guthridge immediately turned that into more motivation for his team. 
"We would certainly like to win the Duke invitational," he said. 

Cardinal upsets Cyclones 
Associated Press 
STANFORD, Calif. 
Bethany Donaphin had a career-high 26 points and Lauren St. Clair hit four of her five 3-pointers in the second half as Stanford upset No. 6 Iowa State 95-82 Sunday. 
Donaphin hit a series of short turnaround jumpers while St. Clair and Milena Flores contin• ually hurt Iowa State (1-1) from the perimeter. 
St. Clair had 17 points and Flores had 19 points and nine assists for the unranked Cardinal (2-0) -who no longer dominate as in the mid-1990s, but remain a dangerous oppo­nent, especially at home. 
Stanford was the only team to defeat national champion Purdue last season, also at Maples Pavilion. 
Megan Taylor had 23 points and Stacy Frese had 15 of her 18 points in the second half for the Cyclones, who are opening their season with a three-game road trip that concludes Tuesday at San Francisco. 
No. 21 Purdue 63, 
Vanderbilt 51 
Vanderbilt (1-1) grabbed a 23-9 lead during a 17-4 run early in the first half capped by Ashley Smith's 3-pointer with 
11:42 left in the first 20 min­utes. 
But by halftime, Purdue (2-0) had cut the Commodores' lead to37-31. 
Boilermakers Katie Douglas, who was 10-of-10 from the free throw line, ignited a 12-0 Purdue run during that allowed the Boilermakers to take a 46-41 lead with 10:33 mark. 
Douglas scored the first six points in the run, hitting a 3­pointer and converting on a three-point play with 14:11 left. 
Kelly Komara added 11 points for the Boilermakers, while reserve Shinika Parks had 10 points and seven rebounds. 
Chavonne Hammond gave the Commodores their biggest lead of the second half at 41-34 with 16:50 left, but after her basket, Vanderbilt didn't score again until Cion Washington's jumper with 9:56 remaining. 

Chanteelle Anderson scored with 9:03 remaining to trim Purdue's lead to 47-45, but Douglas scored the next four points to give Purdue a 51-45 lead. 
Zuzana Klimesova led the Commodores with 13 points. 
No. 15 5. Barbara 71, 
No. 13 Illinois 61 

Erin Buescher scored 21 points and Kristi Rohr had 16 points and 10 rebounds for Santa Barbara, which held Illinois to 31 percent shooting. 
Santa Barbara led 34-26 at the half. Illinois (2-1) took its only lead of the game at 4 7 -46 with 10:34 left on a layup by Tauja Catdiirigs. 
Allison Curtin had 16 points and 10 rebounds for the Illini and Catchings scored 15 points while grabbing 11 rebounds. 
No. 9 NC St. 75, 
LINC-Greensboro 58 

Freshman Kaayla Chones had 19 points and 10 rebounds to lead North Carolina State to a victory in the champiooship game of the N.C. State Tournament. 
It was the second straight double-double for Chones, named the tournament's Most Valuable Player. 
Tynesha Lewis had 12 points and 10 rebounds as the Wolfpack improved to 3-0. Summer· Erb and Monica Bates each scored 12 points. 
The Spartans (1-2), the pre­season pick to win the Southern Conference, were led by ChoRhonda Gwaltney's 15 points. Brianne Dodgen added 13 points and Katie Delcampo chipped in with 11. 
UNCG, which faced a size dis­
advantage, was hampered 
even more when 6-foot-2 cen­
ter Sandi Reid was unable to 
play after injuring her right 
shoulder in Saturday's win 
over Washington. 
No. 12 Auburn 93, 
Jacksonville St 54 
Tasha Hamilton and LaRita Spencer scored 15 points each, leading Auburn to a win over Jacksonville State. 
The Tigers led 16-1 after the first six minutes. The Jaguars committed four fouls that helped Auburn take a 9-0 lead and didn't make their first bas­ket until Heather Mayes' jumper at 6:46. 
Kris Bernath then scored four points to start a 8-1 run, ending with Spencer's 3-point­er, that put Auburn up 29-8 with 7:12 to play in. the half. The Tigers led by as many as 28 in the first half and were up 46-20 at the break. 
Jacksonville State committed 16 of' its 26 turnovers in the first half and never got closer than 22 points in the second half, at 53-31 with 16:48 to play. 
Mayes scored 16 points for the Jaguars, but also had a team-high eight turnovers. Lisa Baswell added 13 points. 
LeCoe Willingham scored 12 points and had a team-high 10 rebounds for Auburn. 
No. 1 Connecticut 73, 
Iowa 45 
Tamika Williams scored 18 points and Shea Ralph had 15 as top-ranked Connecticut, opening a season filled with huge expectations, pulled away in the second half to beat Iowa. 
The Connecticut men were 
ranked No. 1 when they Jost to 
Iowa 70-68 in their opener. 
The women, while not always 
sharp, never trailed in beating 
an Iowa team that made a 
game of it for a while despite 
missing its first 20 shots. 
Iowa did not make a field 
goal until Cara Consuegra hit a 
3-pointer from the top of the 
key with 8:37 left in the first 
half. But Connecticut, sloppy in 
its half-court offense, couldn't 
put the Hawkeyes away and 
led only 15-5 before Consuegra 
connected. 

• 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be p_repa1d. . The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the nght to edit
CLASSIFIEDS 

all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
NOTICES 
THE COPY SHOP Lafortune Student Center PHONE 631-COPY 
www.CopyShopND.com Store Hours Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Mldnight Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm Sat: Noon•6:00pm Sun: Noon-Midnight 
Lost and Found 
LOST: Silver Charm Bracelet 
. lost in middle of October High sentimental value. x3727 -Megs 
Wanted 
Free One Bedroom Apartment near Campus 
A family with three children seeks tun.energetic student or graduate to live in charming apartment for FREE in exchange for mutually agreeable babysitting responsibill· ties.Fax name.phone II and brief note describing elCperience and interests to Walker at 233-2308. 
Free CD of cool indie music when you register at mybytes.com, the ultimate website for your college needs. 
FOR RENT 
ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE HOME FOR 
ND-SMC EVENTS. 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 243-0658. 
WALK TO SCHOOL http://mmmrentals.homepage.com 232-2595 or mmm.rentals@aof.com 
FOR SALE 
Spring Break Specials!Bahamas Party Cruise 5 Days $279! Includes Meals! Awesome Beaches,Nightlile!Cancun & Jamaica 7 Nights From $399! Florida $129!springbreaktravel.oom 1-800-678-6386 
FOR SALE 
N.D. FOOTBALL TIX CALL 271-9412 Phone Cards 669min. $20 243-9361 or 258-4805 
SPRING BREAK 2000 
PANAMA CITY BEACH FLORIDA FROM $149 PER PERSON SAND­PIPER BEACON BEACH RESORT THE "FUN PLACE"! TIKI BEACH BAR ENTERTAIN• MENT BY BOOGIE INCORPORAT· ED BIKINI CONTESTS MALE HARD BODY CONTESTS 3 POOLS LAZY RIVER RIDE WATER SLIDE HUGER BEACHFRONT HOT TUB MINI GOLF GIFT SHOP SUITES UP TO 10 PEOPLE 1-800-488-8828 WWW,SANDPIPERBEACON.COM 
MINT! 46,000 MILES '92 WHITE SATURN 4 DOOR SEDAN STICK. $5,800. 217-7185 
Color Printer HP DeskJet 682C $65 Pat 243-5354 
TICKETS 
WANTED NOTRE DAME FOOT• BALL TICKETS 271-1526 
PERSONAL 
Quality Copies, Quickly\ 
We're open early. late. & weekends. THE COPY SHOP Lafortune Student Center Phone 631;COPY 
Quality Copies, Quickly! 
Spring Break 2000 Free Trips & Meals. Jamaica,Cancun.Bahamas.Barbad os,Florida,Padre.Book now for Free Meals & 2 Free Trips.Book before Dec. 17 for LOWER PRICES!! 1800-426·7710 www.sunsplashtours.com 
STUDENT WORK Vector Marketing Corp. is now filling p/t cust. sales & service positions. Flex. around class. Transfers avail. over breaks. $10.55 base-appt. Good resume exp. scholarships awarded, cond. apply. call rnon-wed 12:30-5:30pm 
282-2357 
www.thecommentator.com 
www.NDToday.com 

Babysitter needed for 4-year old, 
transportation required. Tues. & 
Thurs. 2:45-7:45 or 5:30-7:45 for 
Spring semester. 

Experience with children preferred 
but not necessary. Call Beth at 
254-9060 or email at 
BLP1975@aol.com. 

Ride needed Saturday or Sunday from Ft. Wayne over to ND. Will pay gas. x-2032. 
-

If you were as cool as me, you'd be cool too. 
GOOOOOOO Team 39511! Hooray for Fluffyt 
Eventually, somebody should point 
these out to J.W. 

I mean. he IS the leader of Team 
395, isn't he? 

That was TOTALLY Fluffy on the field on Saturday. Fluffy scored a Touchdown. 'Cause Fluffy rocks. 
EL, how are the F.C.s? 
Booya! 

Someone get that squirrel a jersey 
and a set of shoulder pads! 
Can squirrels wear shoulder pads? 
Shout out to Siegfried 4B. Relish it, for it will only happen once more. 
My two favorite basketball teams are 3·0. What could be better? 
The day is mine, Trebek. I'll take ... 
Not a fan of the ladies. are you. Trebek? 
I'm trying to picture a squirrel in a jersey ... nope, it's just not happen­ing. 
I've seen The Wizard of Oz twice in a row down here ... that's got lo be a sign of the apocalypse somewhere. 
And now, The Observer will present its "Worst display of sports journal­ism award" for 1999. 
The winner is that guy from the New York Post who refused to put Pedro Martinez on his AL MVP bal­lot, preventing him from winning the award. 
I wish the Harris brothers would 
stop kissing themselves when ii comes to road trip meetings. 
Well, I'm doing this one more time. Deuce, be very, very afraid. 
That's the sports and I .. am...outta here. 

w w
... =­
Monday, November 22, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
FSU one win from perfect season 
AS>ocia1ed Pre,s 
GI\INESVILLE, Fla. 

Soon, the excit1mrnnl of a big victory will ebb for Bobby Bowden. ll will be replaced hy six of the most stomach-churn­in){ wonks of anticipation hn has cvnr cxpcrir.ncnd. 
The Florida State coach is one win away from orrn of tho fow goals tl1,it has dudnd him -a 
pm-fnct scason. 
"I think I'm due al'tnr 46 ynars," Bowdon said. "I sure would lov11 Lo have one." 
ThP top-ranked Scminolns ( l l -0) stayed undel'eated Saturday wilh a :10-23 victory over No. 5 Florida 011 Saturday. Tlwy earned their second straight trip to thf1 national title gamn. 
llunning tho slate without a loss is ahout the only missing piccn to a sparkling career for a conch with :m:{ earner victories, 01w national titl(\ and an accompanying list of achieve­111cnts as imprcssiVti as anyone in the gamn. 
In many ways. Bowden may havli overcome his most diffi­cult hurdle by del'eating the Cators f<J-2) at The Swamp. 
As the Seminoles danced at midlfold al't1!r the game -not before, as they have in the past -they had a sensf1 that the big win against their toughest opponent answered any rnmaining questions people had about them. 
"This one feels really good," Bowden said. "To beat the Gators in this place for a 
"To beat the Gators in this place for a chance to place for a national. championship is awfully. awfully special." 
Bobby Bowden 
Seminole head coach 
chance to play for a national championship is awfully, awful­ly special." 
f<'lorida State did that back in 1993, as well, but they had one loss that s1>ason and a Heisman Trophy. yvinner in Charlie Ward playing quarterback. 
This yMr's quarterback is Chris Weinkc. IL was his ability to deal with big-game pressure that helped tho Snminoles to the victory. 
Weinko linishAd 24-for-36-for 263 yards and overcame his biggest mistake -an intercep­tion returned for a touchdown by Gators cornerback Bennie Alexander -by leading the Seminoles to 17 straight points to win the game. 
Peter Warrick had a good showing, catching nine passes for 90 yards and running for one score. Jeff Chaney lilied in for a nicked up Travis Minor and scored the go-ahead touch­down. Kicker Sebastian Janikowski hit a 54-yard field goal to tie the game and shift momentum soon after Alexander's interception return. 
"Going into this year, our goal was to come down here and win this football game and play for the national championship," Weinke said. "There were lots of doubters throughout the whole year, But nobody's beat­en us yet. I don't know how many doubters are out there anymore." 
If the doubters do exist, they probably live near Virginia Tech or Nebraska, the two schools in best position to play Florida State in the Sugar Bowl on Jan. 4. 
But the ,Seminoles completed the regular season feeling good about their chances. Their the­ory is that if they can beat Florida in The Swamp, those other guys 011 a neutral field should be beatable, as well. 
Not willing to jump on the bandwagon was Gators coach Stove Spurrier. After watching his team fritter away opportu­nities and commit costly mis­takes, he was more convinced µf his team's own imperfections than he was of Florida State's dominance. 
"They still may win them all and they still may be No. 1," Spurrier said. "They are a pret­ty good team, but they are not the teams they have had in ·the past." 
After a victory in the biggest game of the season, Bowden wasn't going to Jet Spurrier get under his skin. 
"Maybe that's the way Steve feels," Bowden said. "But you know what? We're undefeated and he isn't." 
His next task is to make sure he can still say that six weeks from now. 

Eagles stand in path of Hokies' Sugar run 
Associated Press 

PHILADELPHIA Michael Vick has got New Orleans on his mind. 
No. 2 Virginia Tech's fresh­man quarterbar,k gave the most impressive performance yet of his young career in the 1-Jokies' 62-7° rout of Temple on Saturday. 
The victory moved them one step closer towards securing a berth for the national championship game at the Sugar Bowl. 
All Vick and the Hokies (10-0, 6-0 Big East) nAed to do now is defeat No. 22 Boston College on Friday and they're virtually assured a spot in the title game. Top­ranked florida State proba­bly locked up the other spot with a 30-23 win Saturday over No. 3 Florida. 
"It's something I've always dreamed of, one game away from playing for the national championship," Vick said. 
That wish will come true if Vick plays against BC the same way he dismantled the poor-tackling Owls (2-6, 2-3). He had 134 of Tech's 314 rushing yards (both season highs), ran for two scores and completed 7-of-10 pass­es for 171 yards and two more long touchdowns to Andre Davis. 
Plus, Vick got out of some tough jams in the pocket with his mobility to buy more time for big plays -like his 53­and 75-yard touchdown runs. 
Coming into the Temple game, Vick led the Big East in total offense with 218.6 yards per game. 
"Vick doesn't get tackled too much. It's jusl Michael Vick being Michael Vick. He does it anywhere at any­time," said running back /\ndre Kendrick, who ran for two SCOrllS. 
But the llokies didn't dw1i!I long on their hig win, which clinched at least a share of the Big East championship. 
"I'm not sure we can con­trol our own destiny. You check thosA computers late­ly?" Tech coach Frank Beamer said, referring to the Bowl Championship Series standings that are partly derived by computer rank­ings. 
"We can't worry about the BCS. We just got out and play," he said. 
Still, Tech's dominating performance probably helped them in the BCS, where they are ranked second. The top two teams in the BCS will play in the Sugar Bowl. 
Almost lost in the shadows of Vick's big game was the Hokies' swarming defense, which avenged a come-from­behind 28-24 loss to Temple last year when the Owls were a 35-point underdog. 


WWW 

----------------------•-----""···----..-··----------------·----... .. --------. 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, November 22, 1999 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 

Whirlwinds extinguish Pyros in triple-overtime epic 
By RACHEL BIBER 
Sports Wrirer 
All of the emotion, tension and highlights that are expected to unfold on the hallowed grounds of Notre Dame Stadium were witnessed on Sunday as the Whirlwinds of Welsh swept away the championship title from the Pyros of Pasquerilla East 18-12 in a sensational triple-overtime drama. 
After a shaky start by Welsh and a quick PE touchdown, the Pyros looked to continue their winning ways. On PE's first pos­session. Elizabeth Plummer con­nected with Melissa Gorman for a quick six points. But the Whirlwinds took the blow in stride, and Welsh quarterback Katie Rak unleashed an incrt>di­ble pass to wide receiver Vanessa LiChon to even the score. 
PE came out tiring in the sec­ond half but was halted bv the solid Welsh defense that· per­formed tremendously through­out the whole game. The Whirlwinds effectively halted the Pyro offense that had run over their opponents all season. 
"The defense played tremen­dous," Welsh coach Dave DePoister said. "Pushing Plummer back was huge -they played phenomenal." 
As the end of the second half wound down, the Whirlwinds threatened to score. but could not capitalize on their field posi­tion, forcing overtime. After a bomb from Welsh quarterback Rak to LiChon put the Whirlwinds within five yards of the goal line, the team could not overcome the barrier to the end zone. 
Rak attempted a quarterback sneak, but instead of ending up with six points, she was forced to the sideline with an ankle injury. Rak could only watch as quar­terback Stephanie Eden took over, and the Whirlwinds lost possession after a failed attempt for a touchdown on fourth down. 
JD,_...

• 
COOR DlNATOR OF YOUTH MINISTRY needed to implement 
a ministry responsive to the spiritual, personal, and social needs of 
Catholic youth in a suburban, 2500-family parish in Baton Rouge, 
La. An integral part of this ministry will include recruitment, devel­
opment and training ofvolunteer youth workers and collaborative 
work with a large parish staff consisting of clergy, religious and lay 
persons. The ideal candidate will possess a minimum of three years 
experience in working with teenagers, and a degree in theology, 
youth ministry, pastoral studies, communications, guidance, or the 
equivalent in education and/or experience. Benefits include medical 
and disability insurance and retirement plan. Send resume and refer­
ences no later than December l 5, I 999 to: St. Thomas More 
Catholic Church, 11441 Goodwood Blvd., Baton Rouge, La 70815; 
or FAX us at (225) 275-1407, Attn: Father John Carville. You cw 
also contact us by e-mail at STM02@compuserve.com. 

I I 
f 
I 
I_ --­

The Pyro defense remained strong, keeping its team in the run for the championship. 
"Our defense played really well," PE coach Dong Min said. "They kept us in the game." 
In the first overtime, Welsh forced PE to match its offensive spark. after Eden connected with LiChon for a touchdown. The Pyros were quick to answer when Plummer hit center Kristin Carey in the end zone to even the score at 12. Both teams failed to convert the extra point, sending the game into double overtime. 
The Pyros and Whirlwinds traded interceptions in the sec­ond overtime, forcing yet anoth­er overtime where the outcome would ultimately be decided. 
Welsh obtained the ball first in the third overtime, and success­fully pushed ahead of PE wheh Welsh wide receiver Alex Callan caught a touchdown pass from Eden. making the score 18-12. The potent Welsh defense denied PE any chance of scoring when two consecutive sacks pushed the Pyro offense back nearly to midfield. On fourth down. the Pyros hoped for a mir­acle, but were rejected when Plummer's attempted pass was batted down outside the end zone. 
Plummer's deflected pass sig­naled a wild celebration on the Whirlwind sideline as the team began to celebrate their first interhali championshlp title. The Pyros stood stunned, and watched as their bid for a third straight title was stripped from their grasp, by a team they had dominated earlier in the season. 
"Our team played pretty well," Pyro assistant coach Doug Kraft said. "It was a tough game. We knew that their team had come a long way." 
The Whirlwind coaches could not say enough about the effort and heart that their players put forth in the title game. 
"We are just really proud of our girls," DePoister said. "They 110 percent." 



NEW 
SAND WI CH : 
WE LIKE I TI ) 


THE TASTY CHICKEN CLUB IS HERE TO STAY, 
One bite of the delicious Chicken Club, and you'll always crave the flavor of Its all-white-meat chicken topped with crispy bacon, fresh lettuce and tomato and mayonnaise. And that's no problem, because now this ultra-saflsfying sandwich is here to stay at BURGER KING~ So come on in and Indulge your craving. 

The Huddle -LaFortl.Ole Student Center 
IT JUST TASTES BETTER~ 
www.burgerking.com
PARTICIPATION MAY VARY. 

Monday, November 22, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Defensive stand gives Knott first interhall chan1pionship 

By KEVIN BERCHOU 
Sports Writer 
Add the Knott Juggernauts to the litany of great intcrhall football champions. 
The Juggs staked their claim to being the best men's inter­hall team of 1999. as they blasted thl' Sorin Otters 24-6 in game played ln Notrn Damn Stadium under lhc walchful eyes of Touchdown Jesus. 
Knott's swarming defense proved to be the difference. After allowing the Otters to move the ball on the game's first possession, the Juggs' defense stiffened up and pres­sured them into committing five turnovors. 
It appeared as though as might be· time for Sorin to finally win a title after drop­ping two straight champi­onship duels, as the Ottnrs put together a spectacular opening drive. Quarterback Luke Beuerlein hit wideout Greg Carney on two huge fourth down plays. Bcuerlein capped the drive, which consumed a full 10 minutes, by calling his own number and scoring on a quarterback keeper from four yards out. A failed extra point attempt left the score at 6-0. 
Much to the dismay of the Otters, the Juggernauts con­trolled the tempo of the game form that point onward. Knott quickly moved to knot the score, scoring on their first possession. Running back Pat Virtue scored on a one-yard scamper to tie the score, before a successful kick gave the Juggs a lead they would never relinquish." 
"It was a sweep to the right," said Virtue of his score. "A hole opened up on the inside and I just cut it to the endzone." 
Having watched the offense gain the advantage, the Juggs vaunted defense sought to make a contribution of it's own. Dan Zach intercepted a tipped Beuerlein pass and wove his way 42 yards for the touchdown that proved the game's most crucial play. A converted extra point stretched the Knolt lead to 14­6. 
"The interception return was definitely the game's turning point," noted Knott captain and quarterback Mario Suarez. "We thought the game was pretty much ov11r from th<'re." 

Sorin never sncmecl to rncov­er. After getting the ball hack. the Otters were largely ind­f'ective in moving tlrn ball us tho Juggs' pass rush was rn l11 n t I 11 s s iII its p u rs II l t of Bouerlein. 
After forcing tlrn Otters into u puor punt, the .luggs l'ound thnms11lvns with a groat driw start deep in Sorin tPrritory. 
Just moments lat.ill", VirluP plowed in from four yards out for his sncond score of' tho coutest.. 
"lle's IHH'll excellent all sea­son," said Suarez of Virtu1), "ln my mind, lw's trw best back in the lnaguo." 
J\f't1ir knocking tho 1)xtra point through the uprights. tlrn Juggs entered tlrn hair with a 21-(i lead. 
The Otters' passing attack took a sevorn hit when l'r1)sh­rn an star Greg Carney sus­tained an injury to his lid'l hand. Carney was nol his dom­inant self throughout much of tho game, but showBcl grit in hanging in the game). 
Knott's play in the second half mirrored its efforts in the first. Once again tho defense moved to suffocate the highly touted Otter attack. The Juggs' defense picked off one morn Beuerlein toss and recovered two Otter fumbles to negate any chance Sorin had of get­ting back into the game. 
The Juggs added a field goal to cap the scoring, leaving the scoreboard at the north end of the stadium reading Knott 24, Sorin 6. 
"We're the better team," said Suarez. "We have bntter players that made plays and that's why we wern able to vvin. 11 
"Our defense played very well," he added. "We pres­sured Beuerlein the whole game. We just didn't givn him any lime. We know they couldn't win ii' we didn't giw them any time." 
The Ottt>rs came into thP game with u passing atlark that sePmed unstoppabk, but tlw injury to Canwy and lhP pressure applied by ~nott smv that tlrnory disprowd. 
As hn accepted tlw champi­onship trophy at tlw ganw's conclusion, tlw broad grin on St~.arez's face to_ld ~.Im story.. 
What a win. lw said. "What a gn~at foe ling." 

.. 
---............,..-----.... 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, November 22, 1999 
NFL 

Boniol's OT field goal propels Chicago past San Diego 
Rams 23, 49ers 7 
Associated Press 
Mike Jones returned an interception 44 yards for a SAN DIEGO touchdown, and Kurt Warner One week later, Chris Boniol threw a 5-yard scoring pass to made his overtime field goal. Isaac Bruce as the St. Louis Boniol, who misse.d ·a 41-beat San Francisco, sending
yarder that would have beaten the 49ers to a sixth straightMinnesota last week, kicked a 
loss. 36-yarder with 10:02 left in It's San Francisco's longestovertime Sunday, giving the skid since 1980, and lhe loss Chicago Bears a 23-20 win ensured an end to the 49ers' over the San Diego Chargers. string of 16 straight 10-victorySix seasons into his NFL 
seasons. career. and one week after 
Marshall Paulk ran for 126 throwing for 422 yards, Jim vards on 21 carries, and Jeff Miller got his first win as a \,Vilkins kicked field goals of 20, starting quarterback. 40 and 49 yards for the Rams, 
Miller, who completed 25 of who won in San francisco for 
38 passes for 357 yards. threw the first time since 1990 and a 31-yard pass to Marcus completed their first season Robinson that set up Boniol's sweep in 20 years. 
winning kick. The Rams (8-2), who have a Both touchdowns came late four-game lead in the NFC in the third quarter of what West with six to play, ended -0 
had been a lackluster game 17-game losing streak to the between teams struggling to 49ers in a 42-20 victory in St. get back to .500. Chicago Louis on Oct, 10. 
improved to 5-6 while the San Francisco (3-7) managedChargers (4-6) lost their fifth to score its first offensive 
straight game. touchdown in four games on San Di.ego forced overtime Fred Beasley's 1-yard run in with 10 points in the final 4:02. the second quarter, but it 
Jim Harbaugh threw a 13-yard wasn't nearly enough to over­touchdown pass to Tremayne come five turnovers. Stephens and John Carney kicked a 28-yard field goal with 
Ravens 34, Bengals 31
one second left. 
Jeff Blake threw three touch­down passes against a defense Jets 17, Bills 7 that had allowed only two 
The Bills (7-4) did a superb touchdowns in its last three job of self-destructing offen­games, and Craig Yeast ran a sively with three giveaways and punt back 86 yards to put the plenty of poor throws and Bengals {1-10) in position for 
impreGise routes. They aren't an improbable victory.counting out anybody in the Cincinnati had a chance to godivision -certainly not Miami ahead, but the Ravens (4-6)(8-2), Indianapolis (8-2) or New 
held after a first-and-goal from England (6-4). And not even the 1, Doug Pelfrey's 19-yardthe Jets. 
kick tied it 31-31 with 1:50 left. 
Ray Lucas, safely ensconced Tony Banks completed 6-of-8 at quarterback now that he is to get the Ravens in position for healthy, was 16-for-20 for 142 the victory, and Stover 
yards in a conservative game matched his season high with a plan that worked well. 50-yard kick as time ran out. Lucas completed his first eight passes and used his elu­
Cardinals 13, Cowboys 9
siveness to avoid a hefty Bills On 4th-and-1 at the 9, Ronald 
pass rush that still managed 
McKinnon and Kwamie
five sacks. On his 9-yard sec­Lassiter stopped Emmitt Smith
ond-period touchdown run, 
for no gain with 3:22· to play,capping a 70-yard drive, Lucas 
and the Cardinals held on toaccelerated out of the pocket 
beat Dallas for only the thirdbefore any Bills could react. He 
time in their last 19 regular­sped untouched into the end 
season games.
zone for his first career TD 
Arizona punter Scott Playerrushing. 
Attention Any Students interested in the Rhodes, Marshall, and Mitchell Scholarships 
Associate Dean Walter F. Pratt, Jr. will have a meeting to discuss the application processes on 
Monday November 22, 1999 
7:00 p.m. 101 Law School 

took an intentional safety with years, are off to their best start 
1:49 remaining to cut the lead since 1984. They beat the 
Bucs 19, Falcons 10 

to 13-9, then De ion Sanders, Chiefs for just the third time in 
Tampa Bay kicker Martin

who also had his first intercep­their last 17 meetings and 
Gramatica lived up to the nick­

tion of the season, returned the scored more points than the 
name of "Automatica" he

free kick 31 yards to the Chiefs had allowed at home 
earned at Kansas State, kicking 
Cardinals 43. since 1988, 
two long fifdd goals in the

Dallas (5-5) drove to the 22, Kitna hit 14 of 33 passes for 
fourth quarter and finishing

but on 4th-and-3, Jason 235 yards and two touchdowns, 
with four in the victory.

Garrett threw a short pass to but he was outplayed by Elvis 
The 5-foot-8 kicker booted

Rocket Ismail, who was Grbac, who had his best day as 
field goals of 24, 26, 50 and 53

stopped at the 21 with 12 sec­a Chief by going 30-of-49 for 
vards as the Bucs overcame a
onds remaining. With Troy 322 yards. 
10-0 deficit before sealing the
Aikman out with a concussion 
victory with a defensive touch­
for the second week in a row, 

Colts 44, Eagles 17 down in the final minutli,
(;arrett completed 16 of 29 for 

Indianapolis quarterback The win was the third
111 yards and a touchdown. 

Payton Manning ended up on straight for Tampa Bay (6-4), the sideline for the first time in which has fought its way back Redskins 23, Giants 13 his NFI. career Sunday, into the NFC Central race 
With first place in the NFC benched after quarters in the behind the improved play of East on the line, the victory. . quarterback Trent Dilfer. Washington Redskins relied on Manning threw for 235 yards their defense for a change, and three touchdowns in three 
Packers 26, Lions 17

forcing five turnovers and get­quarters, and rookie Edgerrin 
Aft.er watching a taunting

ting four sacks in the victory. James ran for 117 yards and 
Lions secondary beat him at

The final turnover came two touchdowns in the first 
Detroit earlier this year, Packer

when Colli~s fumbled the snap quarter alone. It was 17-0 after 
quarterback Brett Favre 

at the Redskins' 27 as the the first quarter, 30-3 at half­
returned the treatment with
Giants were driving to try to tie time. 
two gleeful throat-slitting ges­

the-game with 4:03 to play. James rushed for a career­
tures while the Green Bay

Ken ard Lang recovered, the high 152 yards, pushing him 
Packers pulled away from the

final big play from a defense over 1,000 for the season and 
Lions.

ranked worst in the league. proving yet again that the Colts 
FavrP, who was 26-of-40 for

The Redskins (6-4) broke a knew what they were doing 
309 yards and no interceptions.

two-game losing streak and when the picked him ahead of 
twice taunted Lions cornerback
moved into sole possession of Ricky Williams. 
Robert Bailey, who had done
first place with Dallas· loss to 
the same in Detroit's 23-15 vic­
Arizona. The Giants (5-5), 

Dolphins 27, Patriots 17 tory in September. The second
unable to avenge a 50-21 

Miami picked off five Drew gesture earned Favre an
defeat to Washington in Week 

Bledsoe passes and sacked him unsportsmanlike conduct
2, have lost two in a row after 

five times to stay in a tie with penalty and a possible fine from 
winning three straight. 

Indianapolis atop the AFC East coach Ray Rhodes. Favre said at 8-2. The victory also opened he'd be happy to pay the fine. Seahawks 31, Chiefs 19 up ground on the Patriots and Not since 1990, and only Bills. 
Panthers 31, Browns 17

twice since 1980, had the Miami gained just 229 yards 
Quarterback Steve Beuerlein

Seahawks left Arrowhead against New England and didn't 
passed for 199 yards and two

Stadium as winners. But in this have a first down for 17 min­
touchdowns and William Floyd

remarkable turnaround year utes at the start. Quarterback 
had two short TD runs Sunday,

under Mike Holmgren, every­Damon Huard, who threw two 
leading the Panthers to a 31-1 7 

thing seems to be changing for short touchdown passes to 
rout of the Browns, who were

Seattle. Oronde Gadsden, left in the 
again embarrassed in front of

The Seahawks, who have not third quarter with a bro~en 
their home fans. 
reached the playoffs in 11 nose. 

ATTENTION STUDENTS: 
WHY SELL YOUR USED TEXTBOOKS BACK TO THE BOOKSTORE FOR LESS WHEN YOU CAN SELL THEM DIRECTLY TO ANOTHER STUDENT? CAMPUSMONSTER.CCM ALLOWS STUDENTS TO SELL THEIR 'JSED TEXTBOOKS TO OTHER STUDENTS. YOU WILL MAKE MORE MONEY AND YOUR FELLOW STUDENTS WILL SAVE MORE! IT'S THAT SIMPLE. 
LOG ON NOW AND LIST YOUR FALL SEMESTER TEXTBOOKS AND GET ENTERED FOR THE CHANCE TO WIN YOUR NEXT SEMESTERS BOOKS FOR FREE!!!! THAT'S RIGHT. WE WILL HOLD A DRAWING ON DECEM­BER 130, 1999 TO FIND THE WINNER OF OUR" SEMESTER FOR FREE" CONTEST. YOU WILL RECEIVE 1 ENTRY FOR EVERY BOOK YOU LIST THE MORE BOOKS YOU LIST THE BETTER YOUR CHANCES OF WIN­NING. 
WHEN YOU'RE THERE, GET THE LATEST SCOOP ON WHAT'S HAPPEN­ING AT YOUR COLLEGE OR AT CAMPUSES AROUND THE COUNTRY. THERE'S ALSO A SECTION WITH UP TO DATE SCORES AND COLLEGE NEWS. 
FROM TEXTBOOK SWAPPING, COLLEGE APPAREL ANO GAME TICKETS TO THE LATEST CAMPUS NEWS, IT'S ALL JUST A CLICK AWAY AT CAM­PUSMONSTER.COM 


PUSfflDDSTBA.COffl 
"If we don't have it, you can't get itr 

,..........,........-.......----------.---------.....-~--_,,_ . .,..___.,a_,.
___~SU--11'"'-----------Wn,ll_,..__..,....~ ------.--••------.....• 

ATTENTION· 
UNDERGRADUATE 
AND GRADUATE 
STUDENTS 
WORLDWIDE 
~-ii;~;::-_-. 
·!·'·" ,.-. 
l•ru10l•.11 
la,1 ll1Joa 


ENTER.COM 
ISSLP is an 8-week co~unity ~ased summer service-learning course where students work m one of rune countries around the world with organizations and ministries meeting the needs of the poor and 


..
PURSUE JOB 
marginalize~. Includes: Travel Expenses, $1,700 Tuition Scholarship, 

AND INTERNSHIP 
3.0 credit Theology course, Preparation & Re-entry Classes. 

OPPORTUNITIES 
Qualified ca~did~tes must ha~e strong conversational skills for Spanish 

THAT SPAN 
speaking sites and previous experience in service-learning. 

THE GLOBE 
. . 
. . .
Information At the Center for Social Concerns 
Sessions? Wednesday, November 10, 7:00 pm Tuesday, November 23, 7:00 pm 

\ mpusCareerCenter.com 
.,~. The 'MXld~ largest campus job fair
Applications? Available at the Center for Social Concerns Due December 1 Due ASAP (Students Studying Abroad Spring 2000) 
Questions? Call Rachel Tomas Morgan at 631-5293 
tiJ.11 
Ci~TER F0!f 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 


Monday, November 22, 1999 "The Observer . SPORTS 
Palmer contributed six, and Graves added five to comple­

M. B-ball 
ment his four assists. At the game's midway point, Notre

continued from page 20 
Dame was almad 34-29. Irish wen\ able to dump th11 Murphy got thf' jam from hall insidn to \-turplty all day Dillon lo open up the second long for Lill' Pasy basknts. p<1riod, setl.ing the torrn for the "Tlwy just don't havn a guy 
rust of tho ganw. who 1'./lll guard Troy," lirst-year Foreman and Hagland lwad 1:oad1 \-tatt l>olwrty said, couldn't keep up thoir hot "Ami WP trind lo oxploil that." shooting in tho second half, Willi tlw h1iight 11dvan!ag11 
missing a combined scvun 

rnusing t.11n Irish to dish the shots f'rom bd1ind the arc and hall lo Murphy morn than not making one. SL. Francis 11s1111I. llw rl's1 of' tlw tnam had 
wound up eight !'or 26 from lo lw llllSfl!lish and Int tlw ·w· thn~e-point range in, the game. lnll tlw story of thn ganrn. a signilicant factor in tlie out­"Tlwy sarrif'icecl llwir shots 
come. "We're a thrnc-point shootingfor llll' today," Murphy said. "Somn days you gP1 tlrnl oppor­

tliam, but we don't want t·o tunity. and otlwr days you have 
shoot 20-plus threes because we don't have the strength

to lw n pass1•r. Today wu just insido to rebound thorn if we
had that. hPight. advantage." miss," Jones said.
"To mn it's Notni Damn win­
nin).{. and with that, 1•v<1rybody Snnior guard John Mel.can wins," Dolwny said. "Tlw kids came on strong for St. Francis, sarrilin•d Uwir individual suc-with 1:i points in his team's 1•pss for IIH• Ui11m sm:rnss." first loss or the season. Thn 
Murphy shot 14-for-I 8 from 
Irish extnnded their load lilt' lil'lll all{I was sPVPll l'or l 0 throughout Urn second stanza. l'rom tlw diarity stripe. lie also going ahead by as many as 15 points. ·
acld<'d four assists and rncorcl­1•d two blorks against Sl. 
Sophomore Ilarold Swanagan Franris. 
gol snvnral second-half buckets "Troy r..1urphy. witho11L qum,­to aid thu Irish. Sunior point tion, is ont' of Urn pr1•mier big guard .Jimmy Dillon brought guys in th" l'01111try." St. down !'our boards and dished Franris !wad roach Bobby 
off lhr<Hl assists in the Irish vic­,lorws said. "1\11yli11w you havn torv. a playnr of t.lw ral ih11r or Troy 1fotlowing the victory. the Murphy. yo11'n• going to havti a 
Irish turn their attention to the hard ti11w if' you·rn nol strong semilinals of the Prnseason NIT insidP. w,,•n• a tPam that's not agninst Arizona, to be played bll'ssr·rl with strnnglh and size Wednnsday in Madison Square in llw middlii." 
Garden in New York. St. 1:runris was anl'hored in 
"It's nice to be able to talk tlw Party going by its two point 
about Arizona and the NIT guards, orw of whom moved lo 
without being so guarded about things," Doherty said. "If we games this season. With the

thP two position. Juniors Harl hm•ma11 and .Jamal Hagland. play hard against Arizona, we unexpected win over the 
111Pas11ri11g in at 5-l"uot-8 and 5-might havn a shot. If we don't Buckeyes and the subsequent 
play hard. we won't have a victory over the Saints, theruot-IO n•spnctivtdy for St. 

shot." Irish added three extra games

Francb. each talliPd thn:ci I.mys i11 tlw first half. Arizona. coached by Lute to their schedule. Olson is rnnkml No. 10 in the "I think it is a bonus because
"Tftr•y liav<' lots of undnrsiz('d t\ssociatnd J>rnss poll. you'rn playing against top­
playPrs," c;ravPs said. "But tlwy slH>WPd a lot or lu•art and tlwy Tim Irish won tlrnir first two quality teams that will help 
ganrns in the NIT ovnr No. 6 prepare us for tlrn Big East.

~hol tlw ball rPal wdl." 
and as far of strength .of sched­

In tl!P first lialf. /\lurphy put Ohio Stale and a Siena team 
which won more than 20 ule when you talk about the

up 17 points, sPnior Todd 

NCAA Tournament." Doherty said. 
Murphy, a New Jersey native, is looking forward to the chance to play close to home. 
"It'll be a dream come true for me," Murphy said. "I've been going to that tournament since high school." 
Game notes 
. Notre Dame's lnading scor­
page 17 

er and rnboundcr as a frnsh­man, Murphy is off to a great start in his sophomore cam­paign. He's averaging 29 points and 10.3 rebounds pnr gamn so far this s,iason. 
. 
For the second straight game, tlrn Irish shot morn than 60 percent from tlrn finld, going 29-for-46. 

. 
A nnar-capacity crowd or 9,056 attm1ded the game. 


.,.,..-------=----------~---•-..-------------w-••,..,..._,.,,...--~---~-.---~ 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, November 22. 1999 


APPLICATIONS FOR THE FOLLOWING UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS ARE DUE DECEMBER 1. 1999: 
INNSBRUCK, AUSTRIA ACADEMIC YEAR 2000-2001 ANGERS, FRANCE ACADEMIC YEAR 2000-2001 PARIS, FRANCE 
ACADEMIC YEAR 2000-2001 ATHENS, GREECE FALL 2000 DUBLIN, IRELAND 
AY 2000-2001, FALL 2000, SPRING 2001 NAGOYA, JAPAN ACADEMIC YEAR 2000-2001 TOLEDO, SPAIN 
AY 2000-2001, FALL 2000, SPRING 2001 FREMANTLE, AUSTRALIA FALL 2000, SPRING 2001 SANTIAGO, CHILE FALL 2000 MONTERREY, MEXICO FALL2000 PUEBLA, MEXICO FALL2000 
BRING YOUR APPLICATIONS TO OUR NEW OFFICES, ROOM 201 CAMPUS SECURITY BUILDING 
APPLICATIONS ARE DUE OCTOBER 1. 2000 FOR: 
SANTIAGO, CH I LE SPRING 2001 CAIRO, EGYPT SPRING 2001 ATHENS, GREECE SPRING 2001 JERUSALEM SPRING 2001 MONTERREY, MEXICO SPRING 2001 PUEBLA. MEXICO SPRING 2001 
JOHN DAIL YfThe Observer Junior midfielder Anne Makinen heads the ball in Friday night's game against the Cardinal. 
W.Soccer 
continued from page 20 
"It has always seemed like the halls have gone off posts against us," Beene said. "But this game it was our luck with the posts." 
Irish head coach Randy Waldrum was surprised that a penalty kick was called so late 
in the game. A Stanford cross took a funny bounce and struck an Irish player in the hand in the box. When a simi­lar situation happened a minute later against the Cardinal, the referee did not call a penalty shot for the Irish. 
"I was really surprised he called the PK [penalty kick]," Waldrum said. "Usually in a tight game like that he lets the players decide it on the field. I was surprised by that espe­cially when he didn't call the handball in the box on the other end. That's part of the game. You've got to deal with it and we caught a break on it. Maybe it was just our night." 
The night belonged to the

•• Irish defense, who limited the Cardinal to nine shots in the shutout. While in the past few weeks the Irish defense seemed unorganized, Friday's game saw a much more solid Irish defense. "Defensively it was very good tonight," Waldrum said. "I thought we were pretty
·­
good defensively in the mid­field especially in the second half and that was the part l have been the most disap­pointed with in the past few games." 
Defender Kelly Lindsey gave credit for the better defensive effort to the mictlield. 
"It felt a lot more coordinat­ed in the second half mostly because of our center mid­l'ielders," the junior captain said. "They started picking up their marks and their runs more so we didn't have as many to deal with up top." 
The shutout pitched by the Irish defense was nearly matched by Cardinal defense. Thanks to six saves by Cardinal goalkeeper Carly Smolak, Stanford held Notre Dame scoreless for 81 min­utes. 
"Carly is one of the best in the country," Swanson said. "I thought she controlled things pretty well for us back there." 
Sarkesian broke the score­less tie with a hard shot to the upper right corner that Smolak had no chance on. Jen Grubb began the scoring play when she shot a free kick from the left side of the goal across the front of the net. Senior for­ward Jenny Heft deflected the pass toward the net but the shot was cleared by a Stanford player. Sarkesian collected the failed clear and blasted it back toward the net for the game winner. 
"The ball rebounded out to me," Sarkesian said. "I took a touch and saw the right side of the goal open to me. I just shot it there and I put it in." 
Sarkesian's late goal kicked off a desperate attack by the Cardinal. With less than 10 minutes remaining in the game, the Cardinal went for broke and pressed the Irish defense hard to try and get a tying goal. 
"It got a little tense," Lindsey said. "Right after we scored they put three forwards up and they ran at us with their midfielders. So we were just trying to get out mifield back and reorganize." 
Thanks to intelligent clock management by Waldrum, who substituted frequently in the last few minutes to keep his team fresh and run a few extra seconds off the clock. Finally, the last seconds ticked off the clock and the Irish sur­vived with a 1-0 victory. 
The win advances Notre Dame to the NCAA quarterfi­nals Friday, where they will face Nebraska for the right to move on to the final four in San Jose, Calif. 
W. B-ball 
continued from page 20 
started in the second half', but incurred her fourth foul less than fivp minutes in and fin­ished the game scoreless. 
Riley's absence on the court altered Notre Dame's game plan. Even without the power­ful post play of the prcseason first team All-American, the Irish were able to compensate with an effective outside game. 
''Other players stepped it up on the court," said Hatay. "Danielle played really well off 
the  bench  and  Niole  was  
shooting  well  the  whole  
game."  .  

Saturday's game marked the second time this season that the Irish stepped on the court without Riley at thP helm. Sidelined with a slight injury to her right ankle last week, Riley sat on the bench dming the team's final exhibition game of the preseason. 
Notre Dame broke open a close game 10 minutes into the first half when back-to­back three pointers by Ratay gave the Irish a 21-13 lead over TolPdo. 
Center Julie Henderson tapped in a layup with less than six minutes left in the half to put the Irish out in front by 10 with a score of 31­
21. A patient offense and scrappy defense helped keep the Irish in control throughout the rest of the game as the Rockets were unable to bring their point deficit into single digits after Henderson's score. 
"It was our first game and we came out strong," said Ratay. "They were a good team. They had some good players, but we just focused on doing our best." 
Green and Ivey kept the Rockets' defense scrambling, as the two guards combined for 29 points. 
Ericka Haney, coming off the bench at the guard position, rounded out the Irish back­court, registering 11 points from the field. 


After coming off a strong '98-'99 campaign, Toledo lost three key starters to gradua­tion, which took its toll on their offense in their first out­ing of the season. Ce.nter Jennifer Markwood led the team with 14 points, followed closely by forward Karin 
OFFICE OF INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS 201 SECURITY BUILDING 219-631-5882 
Husbeck who came up with 
11. Markwood and Husbeck were the only Toledo players to post double-digit numbers. 
Saturday's win for Notre Dame only serves to continue the standard of tough competi­tion set by last year's Irish squad who recorded a .839 winning percentage -the second best in the program's 22-year history. 

APPLICATIONS FOR THE FREMANTLE, AUSTRALIA SUMMER PROGRAM ARE DUE FEBRUARY 25, 2000 
Monday, November 22, 1999 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
FOURTH AND INCHES 

Fox TROT 
ARE You SuRE I  MY MASHEO PoTAToES USUALLY  
CA11fT BE oF  GET STA1'401N& o\JAT10NS~­ 
Sol\llE HELP !fERE?  M'f Tllllk:EY STvfF11'16 WA'>  
FEATuRED1N fooR COol(­ 
SooKS... MA.ii\iA STEWl\~T 1·  
ICEEPS WlltTtN& To 6ET MY ~ PvMP1<1N P1E SECRET... I  
\---­ i  
~  
iS  

ACTUALLY, YOV CoOLD J\JST 00 5oMEn-t1N& To NAME 
MAK£ 'TttlS EASIER 1T. FoR ME, MoTHER. 
I 
\ 
-l 
TOM KEELEY 
JEFF BEAM

A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD 
BILL.AMEND 
SWEETHEART, How WANT To CAN I HELP You SEE MY cool( IF I'M TR1C1< To StTT1NG ouT HERE GET PA5T Ol'I 1\-IE SoFA.i' 1\iE REO 
ORS 
.. 
GuARtltANr 
! 
beam.1@nd.edu 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32 Office 66 Fuse units 1 Idaho, e.g. transmittal 67 "Trinity" author 6 Calcutta dress 36 Iran's Shah 68 Prolific writer on 
Pahlavi-calculus

10 Alain's girlfriend 39 Lively French 89 Swim contest
14 Accustom dance 70 Word with 
15 Caddie's 40 Long-lost friend, contact or zoomoffering to an egotist? 71 With subterfuge 16 Bad luck cause 43 Carpet fiber 17 Single year's 44 Altimeter units DOWNrecord 45 Job for a body 1 Princess'18 Cuts, as shop headgearbranches 46 More than 2 MaQnani and 19 Lotion dislike ChristieIngredient 
48·"---···

20 Be mildly uniformso Ocean prowlers surprising, to an 4 Make blank egotist? 53 Pursued 5 Give in23 Trip up a 58 With surprising 6 Round builcling mountaln speed, to an 7 It may be picked egotist?
24 Wine city near up in a tobacco Turin 63 Clinic shop
25 Mahal 64 Kismet 8 Items in bell 
27 Still In the 65 Longest river in 
towers womb Europe 
9 Undisturbed 10 Open a bit ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 11 Actor O'Shea V I B E S L A S S E D E N 12 •-.-pronounce 
E R A S E O N T O N O D E 13 Divorcees 35 Eye up and 55 Rand of fan 59 Be specific down dancing fame about
21 Skittish move 37 Playwright Akins 
22 Evening fare at 56 Broadway 60 Key in 
some churches 38 God of war conductor Lehman 61 Virus's target 
26 Newsman 41 1946 Literature Greenfield Nobelist 57 "Dear" book 62 Loch of 28 Wren or hen 
42 Nasdaq offering 58 Shi'ite leader Scotland 47 Bath water30 Havoc quantity
31 Habitat for Answers to any three clues in this puzzle
49 Elbows
28-Down are available by touch-tone phone: 

B _ ......._,_.... 32 Motel employee 51 Trumpet 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). omanation
R I L E O R C R 33 Start of North Annual subscriptions are avallable for the A D I N O M I T I R E N E Carolina's motto 52 1960's protest best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 G A P E M A D E T E R S E 34 Hand holder 54 Run of years; 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 



HOROSCOPE  EUGENIA LAST  
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1999 CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS the changes going on around you. DAY: Jamie Lee Curtis, Rodney Dan­00 gerfield, Geraldine Page, Robert VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't Vaughn, Tom Conti, Billie Jean King let anyone take you for granted or Happy Birthday: Don't think; just stand in the way of your progress. do. The more you get motivated and You'll be feeling a little down regard­moving, the more you'll accomplish. ing your personal connections, but You'll even surprise yourself if you once you clear the air you'll be right are quick to respond to every oppor­back on track. 00000 tunity that comes your way this year. LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Diffi­Give-and-take will be the key factor culties while traveling will result in in getting the help you require from delays and frustrations. It is better to others. Be confident and move conduct business over the phone ahead. Your numbers: 6, 21, 28, 34, than actually try to get together with 40, 42 your clients. 000 ARIES (March 21-April 19): SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Go Don't let co-workers who insist on out shopping and you will find that spreading rumors ruin your day. festive outfit and great gift ideas for Don't get involved, and stick to your the ones you love. You'll have lo be job. You'll be the one who looks good careful not to be careless with your in the end. 000 wallet or your credit cards. 000 TAURUS (April 20-May 20): SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. Your involvement in worthwhile 21): You'll be facing temper tantrums groups will enhance your reputation at home. Be as mellow as possible. and bring you in contact with some Overtired individuals can'tltelp the pretty powerful individuals. This is way they feel, but you can bet they'll your cliance to push your ideas and have regrets when they come to their goals. 000 senses. 000 GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): can make love or declare war on Travel should be your first choice. your mate today; the choice is yours. You can do your shopping in one Your flirtatious ways will cause argu­fell swoop if you visit your local ments. Concentrate on your partner travel agent. You will be able to or prepare to be on your own ag,tin. rekindle the heart of the one you 000 love.00000 CANCER (June 21-July 22): You AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): need to be entertained. Do things You may need to put in some over­that will add to the spirit of the sea­time if you want to get a few extra son. If you can afford to plan a vaca­days off at Christmas. You may be tion, do so. If not, put your creative tired now, but it will be worth it talent to work in order to make this when the time comes. 00 holiday season great 0000 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You may have problems with colleagues. should be concentrating on money­Everyone is under a lot of pressure, making deals. Start turning your so don't be too eager to retaliate. house into a winter wonderland. The Bide your time ancf show just how child in you will be delighted with professional you are. 0000 Birthday Baby: You'll always be a little ahead of your time, but in the Jong run your vision will lead to success, satisfaction and solitude. You have special talents that will aid you in being progressive, intuitive and knowledgeable. (Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) (01999Universal PresSyru!lcate  • ,.  

-----------------------------------------------------------------~~------­
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year D Enclosed is $45 for one semester Name --------------------------­Address------------------­
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 



Whirlwinds fail to fall 
Welsh l!all defeated Pasquerilla East for the women's interhall championship in an epic triple-overtime battle. 
PORTS 
page 14 

O
THE page 20 BSERVER Monday, November 22, 1999 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Sarkesian's score sends Irish to quarterfinals 
. Sophomore scores sole goal in 81st minute, Cardinal penalty kick falls short 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 

-
Associate Spom Editor 
The celebration following Irish sophomore Mia Sarkesian's game-winning goal changed into tense uncertainty about a minute later. 
Against the Stanford Cardinal in the NCAA tournament. Stanford's Ronnie Fair was award­ed a penalty kick, which could have knotted the score at 1. · · 
The senior midtifilder lined up just a fow yards from Irish senior goalkeeper LaKeyshia Beene. Fair shot a NCAA hard ball toward the lower 
Tournament
right corner of the net. Beene dove fully extended to her Third Round 
right but the ball was just out Notre Dame 1 of her reach as it struck the right post and i·icocheted Stanford 0 straight across the goal line toward the opposite post. The ball bounced off the left post and kicked out away from the Irish goal. 
Stanford coach Steve Swanson said Irish lore may have played a factor in the final shot. 
"Maybe it was the luck of the Irish," he said. "Ronnie scored so many goals from free kicks, I don't faull her at all. It was just one of those things that happened. It was maybe a millimeter off." 

Beene was glad the bounces finally went Notre Dame's way and the Irish found a bit of luck. JOHN DAILYrThe Observer 
Junior forward Meotis Erikson challenges a Stanford defender in Friday night's third round game. see W. SOCCER/page 18 
===================================================================-===============-============================:-:--:-=-=-=-=------­

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Murphy keeps Irish out of red 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Assisranr Sports Ediror 
The Irish used a significant

• 
height advantage and a career day by sophomore forward Troy Murphy to defeat the St. Francis Red Flash 73-60 Sunday afternoon at the Joyce Center. 
Murphy scored a career-high 35 points and pulled down 13 rebounds in the victory to lead the Irish to their first 3-0 start in 11 years. 
"They weren't stopping him," sophomore forward David Graves said. "Anytime that they're not going tu stop a pre­season All-American. we're just going to have to give him the ball." 
The tallest player for St. Francis (1-1) was 6-foot-5, which left the Red Flash with no one to effectively contain the 6-fuot-1O Murphy. The 
see M. B-BALL/page 17 


WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Freshman Ratay leads ND past Toledo 
By KERRY SMITH Assistant Sports Editor 

The Irish backcourt lit the spark that blasted the Rockets Saturday night, when Notre Dame opened its season against Toledo with a 68-52 win on the road. 
While a base of four return­ing starters to the Irish squad were key in providing experi­ence and continuity on the court in the prescason, a fresh face on the team has already begun to make her 
mark. 

Freshman guard Alicia Ratay, who led the Irish in her. first regular-season colle­giate start with 18 points, is already proving that experi­ence is not the only strength or the seventh-ranked Irish. Ratay·s developing deadly three-pointer, should add to an already-talented set of Irish guards anchored by vet­erans Niele Ivey and Danielle Green. 
Despite the hype surround­ing the freshman, Hatay doesn't feel any added pres­sure on the court. 
"I'm just going to go out and play my best and whatever happens on the court hap­pens," said Hatay. 
Despite a clear height advantage over the Rockets in the paint, the Irish wore forced early on to knep the ball on the perimeter. Center Ruth Hiley, the 6-foot-5 go-to player under the basket for the Irish, picked up two fouls within the opening two min­utes and spent most of the first half on the bench. Hiley 
see W. B-BALL/page 18 

Preseason NIT Semifinals at Illinois at Stanford
SPORTS vs. Arizona Saturday, 3 p.m, ,~~ Saturday, 8 p.m. 
Wednesday, TBA 
ATA 

NCAA Quarterfinals at New Hampshire Baskerbalj vs. Nebraska -~ Saturday, 5 p.m. vs. Hope College 
e
GLANCE 

Sunday, TBA Nov. 30, 7:30 p.m. 





