From Mexico to the Irish 
· Something's Afoot 

Monday
Monica Donzalez relnms r,o the women's 
Foot fungus got you down? See what Scene has 

soccer learn after competing for 
to say about some ofthe most common foot 

Mexico ·s World Cup team. 
problems affecting college students. 

SEPTEMBER 6, 
page 21 
page 12 

1999 
THE 




The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIII NO. 10 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



Saint Mary's athletics celebrates 65 years of growth 

Hditor's Note: Saint Mary ·s May acceptance into the Michigan Intercollegiate Athletic Association marks a significant milestone for the College's growing athletic pro­gram which traces its origin hack morn than 6!i years. The Observer explores I.he history and growth of Saint Mary's sports. 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
Saint Mary's Editor 
In 1868, Saint Mary's had no athl<~tic program. 
Yet a commitment to phys­ical fitness was not absent, just slightly ahead of' its lime. In days when1 Saint Mary's women wore gloves to dinner and dined with esteemed faculty in Lr, Mans Hall's Reinbeaux Lounge, women's athletics were practically unheard of. 
Each afternoon the women convened in front of Holy Cross Hall and strolled down the tree lined avenue, for what the College's handbook described as "fulfillment of daily exercise," combining "physical activity with an appreciation for beauty." 
By 1927, however, a revo­
lution was lrnginning. 
lfrady to brunch out in its quest for athletic compoti­tion, the Collegn held its first "i\nToslal," holding inter­class competitions in tnnnis, track and canoeing. This marknd tho first 1wer athlet­ic competitions at thn Collegn, and set the stage for tho nnxt decade. 
Game Day 
On Wed1wsday, Oct. 24, t 9:~2. Isabel Kan11, dirnctor of physical culture. recPived an invitation l'or tlw Coll11ge to send a squad of women to compete in a tri-rnllcgP f'iPld hockoy moet in Chicago sponsorPd by tlw Chicago Fink! Ilockny i\ssocialion. 
"Toam to play f'or Saint Mary's," and "Col11igo girls will vie in hockny match," local headlinos mad the weeknnd ol' Nov. 10, 1932, as the first l 2 Saint Mary's athletes traveled to Chicago for their first match. 
Captained by South B11nd natives Anne Prikoscvits and Frances Fuller. the team played three games, losing to Lake Forest and Battle Creek, and tying Chicago University, 0-0. 
see SPORTS/page 6 


DANCING QUEEN 
Sz1\ztak said. 
One problem that plagund Saf'ellicln was the inl'r11qut-mey with which groups would appear 011 tlwir schndulml nights. 
"Wo tWt\d to rnorganize il so that it runs morn swadily. Last year groups would sign up and then they wouldn't show," Lyden said. "We'rn trying to increase aceoumability." 
Among tlrn suggestions currently under revinw by Uw committee is a plan for groups to sign up for a certain night within a block of 

By HNN PRESSLY 
:\!i,i\l,lllt ;\Jl'W' h.liror 
•\fkr a ronvulsivP S<'lllt'Slt\r of opnralion. ."-iaft•Hidn, l\lotrP Ilanw's taxi for the intoxicat­P<f. has rPturrwd to tlw drawing hoard for !'n('.( ,nslrurlit 111. 
Tlw Oflkn of' tlw l'n•sicknt rnc1111tly co11­VPl1Pd an ,td hoc committnc t<i examino Uw prohlnms that alTPrlPd Sal'ollicl11's f)('rl'or­111,uirP last s1•nwslPr. 
"Tllo nffl'Pl\l status of 
Sal'1•lfafp is !hat it's not "Wf! need to reorganize ru1111i11g und il's 11ml1•r a 
/Sc~/'eRide/ so thal runs more 
rPronstrudiv<' effort." 
steadily. Lasl year groups
said Tim Lvd1•11, trans­portation i·oordinator would sign up and then they for thn StudPnl Union. 
wonldn 'l show. 
"Tlw ad hoc comrnit­tni, has up until 
Tim Lyden
SPpt1'llllH'r 21 to IIWPL ... und co11w up with .. transportation coordinator 
proposal Io pn•s<\11 l to 
II PC Illall l'rosidnnl's Councill," Lydon said. 
Tlw 1·ommilton has !won split up into two groups, according lo Cavanaugh llall co-pres­id11nl i\my Szeztak, who also chairs the com­mittee. 
"Onn group is going to research how Saf'1•Hide hm; hmm handled in the past. The other is going to look inlo some other schools' programs that am similar to SafeHide," tirno. For oxample, one organization would sign up lo drive on every Thursday in Novnmb<'r. 
Tim comrnittcn is in the process of collecling more suggpstions by distributing questio11­nairos to the I !PC. 
"It ·s bnsically ques­tions aliout SafeRi<le," Lyden nxplained. "We need to get somo feed­
back on what studm1ts want frnm SafnHide." i\s for the future ol' SaleHid<\ a final diag­nosis has yot to be reached. 
"It's still an issue as tu wheth1ir or not it's still going to happl'n. We're really starting from ground zero," said Szeztak. "I think a lot of people do want to keep it, but we have to look at student interest. We have to look at whether or not people will be willing to staff it." 
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Monday, September 6, 1999 
INSIDE COLUMN 
The cutting edge 
For the past four years, my haircuts have always bePn a spectacle to behold. I am not lying to you when I say that something interest­ing usually happens during my haircuts. All of my haircuts from the past four years have always drawn a small crowd, each with a story to tell. 
C.R. Teodoro 
My freshman year was when I had mv first haircut­
Illustrations
gathcring. It was in the 
Editor
middle of the fall semester when I realized that I need­ed a haircut. It wasn't long until some of the guys in my dorm section got together anrl rlm:idfld to check this out That night Barret was the brave soul who cut my hair, while the others looked on and even took photos. 
After that time. I decided to grow out my hair really long in the hopes of attaining a really cool, Japanese-animc-long-flowing-ninja-pimp­style kind of hairstyle. The best way I can explain it was looking like LeiWu Long from Tekken 3. Well, to my disappointment, I wasn't able to truly attain the "LeiWu Long" hair. biwausr, my hair is too wavy and has loo much body (I know body is good for hairstyles. but only if you are a girl). I looked more like a cross bntwccn a Flip Fabio and a dope fiend. 
Then a little more than two years since that first haircut, I got sick of the high maintainence of long hair and decided to do it again: get back the old short Iooking-like-Val-Kilmer's-lcernan­frorn-"Top Gun" style haircut. Again, there was a gathering as a friend. Kane, took the clippers and cut it all off. Again, people were coming in Lu check out the new hair. Pictures were taken and fun was in the air. To my surprise, almost everyone liked the short hair (though there were a few who still liked the long hair). Since then, I have not grown it out to its old length. 
My next haircut was more drastic. I remem­ber ·it so clearly. It was January in the year 1999. It was my last day in California before I would have to return to school for the spring semester. My friends and I got together for one last hurrah. My dear friend Danny "Sinbad" Kannard took out his clippers and skillfully took off all my hair. We did not just cut it off, but actually bicced my head! By the end of the night. I was looking like a small Filipino "Stone Cold" Steve Austin. I definitely looked psycho! This was probably bad timing, however, as the snow was just kicking in as I got back to school. 
Just last month, I got my last haircut for the summer. Again Danny cut my hair, but this time I looked very much like Guile from Street Fighter. My hair was looking pimp before we went out that night. But it would not last for long. 
My last haircut was actually just two nights ago. And I will say something that will hopefully savt> you from the embarrassment that I am now enduring: Drinking and haircuts dord mix! I didn't intend to drink on Saturday night. but I did. I knew I needed a haircut, so I asked for one in my somewhat drunken state. Of course, the people with me were probably just as intox­icated as I was, if not more so. Well, that night I got my haircut. I have senior pictures in nine days. I am not happy. Now I've got uneven sides and a bald strip on the top of my head. 
So please remember what I say when you see that small guy with the dark shades and bad haircut: rnwer cut hair when vou have been drinking. You could save yourself from a bad hair day. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those qf the author and not necessarily those ofThe Obseruer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Finn Pressly Michael Vanegas Mike Romanchck Graphics Erin Piroutek Scott Hardy 
Sports Production Bill Harr Mike Connolly Viewpoint Lab Tech Colleen Gaughen John Daily 
The Oh,erver (USl'S 5-?9 2-4000) is pttbli,hed Monday rhrough Friday c:<cep, dmi11g cx.im :md vacation periods. The Ob~ervcr i~ a member of the As1wciared Prc11s. All rcproduc,ton righr.-. ar~ r~1i,erved. 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday 
. 
Washington Seminar info . ND Student Council on . Lecture -Sex, Drugs, . Business Career forum: meeting: Center for Social International Business Rock & Roll: Saving the Fur seniors, second year Concerns, 7 p.m. Development: Jordan Youth from the Culture by a MBAs and MS in accoun­

. 
Habitat for Humanity Auditorium, 5:JO p.m. Return to Modesty: tancy stud1mts, College of general info meeting: . Lecture -School of the Hesburgh Library Business Administration, (1 Center for Social Americas: llesburgh Auditorium. 7 p.m. p.m. to 8:30 p.m. Concerns, 8 p.m. Library Auditorium, 7 p.m. 


Compiled from U-Wire reports

OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Renowned archive to stay at CU 
UNIVEHSITY OF COLOHADO "11zey knew that ifthe project rights initiative could not be sus­The curator of University or tained," Montgomery said. "They
could not be contained at OJ,
Colorado-Boulder's world­made a businnss decision that they renowned human-rights archive it would have to be transferred could not l'inancn thP ongoing acknowledged Thursday that he -they'd have to let the activitiPs of' the project." sought to transfer the priceless Montgomery acknowledged that
documents go." 

repository -and himself -to the CU administrators may not IHLVP University of Texas at Austin. realized that he explored the pos­Bruce l\lontgomery, whoso efforts Bruce Montgomery sibility of trnnsf"crring the archive to expand the repository brought to the University of Texas.
curator 

international acclaim to CU, told flownvnr. hn said that budw1t-con­the Colorado Daily that his actions scious CU officials were well stflmmed from the woefullv inade­aware or the need to relocate the
unconscionable if it were not con­
quate level of support that CU tinued somewhere Rise." massive n>pository -or at least a Montgomery's revelation raises
administrators had committed to significant portion or it -to anoth­troubling new questions regarding
the archive. er institution. "This is my lire·s work." the future of the human-rights "They knnw what tlrn consn­Montgomery said of the repository, archive, which top CU administra­quencns wmn," Montgomery said. tors steadfastly maintain is in no
which he almost single-handedly "Tlrny knew that if the projectdanger of being abandoned, trans­
transformed into the largest collec­could not bn continund at CU, it tion of human-rights documents in ferred or forsaken. would have to Im transl"P,-red ­"The administration has known
the world. "If the project cannot be they'd hav<~ to Id th<) documents continued at CU, it would be go."
for the past two years that human-
Texas A&M researchers clone steer 
TEXAS A&M UNIVERSITY 
Two scientists at the Texas A&M University Veterinary School have successfully cloned a calf from an adult steer, possibly the first time this procedure has ever been done. A year ago, scientists Mark Westusin and Jonathon Hill began research on cloning Chance, which resulted in the birth of Second Chance more than three weeks ago. This is a major step in cloning because Second Chance was cloned from what is believed to be the oldest animal ever cloned -a steer named Chance, a 21-year-old Brahman. Second Chance will be used to study the premature aging of clones. Dr. H. Hichard Adams, dean of the College of Veterinary Medicine, said this research will help answer more questions about cloning. "Today we are celebrating a small calf, but it is a large piece of the puzzle," Adams said. Chance was unable to reproduce naturally because both diseased tl~sticles were removed two years ago. Cloning Chance brought back DNA that would have been otherwise lost forever. According to a press release, this research could have an enormous impact on lhe multi-billion dol­lar cattle industry in Toxas. 
Texas fraternity settles hazing suit 
L;NJVEHSITY OF TEXAS AT AUSTIN 

The University of Texas Omicron chapter or thn Kappa Alpha fraternity and four chapter members will foot tlrn bill for a $1.65 million settlenrnnt to a former pledge who accused them or hazing. Fraternity membPrs and UT otlicials say tlrn costly lesson may change Crc<1k life at the University. Under the settlem1~nt rnaclrnd Wednesday, the four defendants -a former chapter president and three "pledge trainers" -will pay two­thirds of the $1.65 million settlement, according to Jim Ewbank, the fraternity's attorney. The balance will b!' paid by the UT chapter. The National Order or the Kappa Alpha fraternity will pay no part or tlrn settle­ment. Cuatro Tolson, currnnl Kappa Alpha prnsidcnt who was not involvPd in tlrn litigation, said tlw settle­ment is a relief'. "It's good thaL it's over," Tolson said. "It was an unfortunatP incid1mt, and it will m)ver happPn again." In February 1998, UT sophomon' Tim Ilessclswmit accus1~cl tlw Kappa Alpha f"raternity of" phys­ical and mental abuse during hazing wlwn lw was a pledge. llcsselsweet has said he was b<'al<'n and urinal­ml on in the basmrnmt of tlw f"rat<'rnity hous1•. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast At:cuWeatherwforecasl for daytin1e conditions an<l hig.h lemperalures 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Monday, Sept. 6. 50s Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
······-···-·········.H L 
Monday ~81 63 Tuesday t)-75 55 Wednesday~ 78 55 

,....... 
~ 

© 1999 AccuWeather, lnc. COLO WARM STATIONARY PrHtw,.:
Thursday ~ 70 60 
,A:{,.,.

® © D' CJ . D. w J· :,.imfu·· ·.,,,...l,il 
High Low .

Showers Rain T•slorms Flurries Snow lee Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy
Friday ~ 74 51 
Via Asscc1arP,C1 Pres~ 

(, >····\f''~ 
Anctiorage 62 40 Flagstaff 78 42 Kalispell 71 45 Boston 77 69 Gainesville 92 72 Lexington 90 68 Casper 85 47 Honolulu 88 72 Mason City 73 48
q_Q,~0.GQ ¢-~ u 
Denver 84 51 Idaho Falls 80 43 New York 79 72 
Showers f..storms Rain Flurries snoW Jee Svnny pt_ Cloudy C!oLJdy 
Evansville 91 64 Jackson 74 36 Omana 79 51 
VIR Atti;ociated PnMs Grsnhw:t.Nt!t 

Mon<lay, September 6, 1999 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Provost's address to 
Check out more about the Sacrament of 
be featured in book
Cottfin11atiott 
Special to The Observer 
Arc '10\.-t '"' b'-'r,tizct:, C"'tholic wl1o M'-'S ttcver bcctt 
Nathan Hatch, provost and
Cc.,ttfir»wt:,? 
Andrew V. Tack11s Profossor of' Ilistory at Notre Dame, is mm or 12 leading figures featured in
Arc \.fO« wo1-1i:>crit15 wlwther \.iO« 11cct, to be 
the latr,st issue of "Vital 
Spo,~ches of the Day." Published twice monthly, "Vital Speeches of tho Day" pro­
Co11finttcb to get tt1arriet, itt tl-w C'"'tholic _Chi,rd1? 

W oult:, \,fl.Jit like tl.J prepare for Conflrn1..\tiM1 with 
vides "the bflst thoughts ol' tho lrnst minds on current national
otl1er Non·e o~mc sn,t>ettts who '-'t·c t,c;:,1c"'tet, to 
problems.'' others featured in
gro\.vittg itt their f'"'ith? 
Lhc Aug. 15 issue include Kon Annan, secrntary gerrnral of tlw United Nations, Samuel "Sandy" B1-1rger, assistant to the presi­don t for national security affairs, and S11rgei Vladimovich 
For more information about the 
Confirmation program, come to an 
Stepashin, the prime minister of 
information sess10n at: 
Hussia. 
Batch's speech was delivered 'v1ay 16 at tlrn spring com­mencement exercises of
Sicgf11ct> Cl1apd 
Wheaton College in Illinois. /\. summa cum laude graduatn of Wheaton, IJatch told the 1999 
on Tuest,ai,, Sept. 7tl1 
graduates: "Success rarely quenches ambition's thirst. Benjamin Franklin. an ambi­
at 1:00 pm 
Please contact Fr. John Conley, CSC or tious man if ever there was one,Clare Sullivan at 631-3389 
once noted that ambition never or stop by the Badin Campus Ministry 
has the good fortune to satisfy office with any questions. 
us. Its appetite grows keener by indulgence. Two of the most
-
"Being driven to succeed 
ojien stems from a 
desire for belonging 
and appreciation." 
Nathan Hatch University provost 

f'amous people I know s1wm to hungPr for achi11vPmtmt and recognition af'lor they have made it to the top. To me it seemed odd, and sad. that after all their well-deserved achieve­ments, they could not simply rnlax and revel in all that had been accomplished. Being dri­ven to succeed oft,m stems from a desire for belonging and appreciation." 
An excerpt of llatch's r1m1arks was also publislrnd in The New York Times' annual compilation of outstanding commenccnrnnt speeches. 
One of the most influential scholars in the study of the his­tory of religion in America, Ilatch is now in his f'ourlh year as Notre Dame's provost and 24th year on the faculty. lie graduated from Wheaton in 1968. 
0MPUS 
CORRECTION
MINISTRY 
A photo caption in Friday's edition incorrectly identified the 
name of Siegfried Hall's rector. Father .John Conley is the rector of 
Siegfried Hall. 
The Observer regrets the error. 



page 4 The Observer . NEWS Monday, September 6, 1999 
NEW BRUNSWICK 
Conference affirms rights declaration 
Associated Press 
MONCTON 
A summit of French-speak­ing countries lhat was domi­natPd hy r:alls for a nar:k down on human rights viola­tors onded Sunday without making any new demands on its m,imbers. 
A declaration adopted by the S2 mnmbnrs of La Fraucoplwnie merely reaf­lirnrnd its goal of' "r:onsolidat­ing the rule of law and democracy" in thn francopho­ne world. It plrdgcd to r<'sp<'ct all human rights, particularly tlw rights of' minoritil's, women and children. 
There was no mention of French calls for the organiza­tion to set up a watchdog group to monitor rights viola­tions in memlmr countrttis, or of Canadian suggestions that the organization suspend or expel members who violate international rights norms. 
Nevertheless, Canadian Prime Minister Jean Chretien and French President Jacques Chirac defended the declara­tion as real progress for the cultural organization. The group only decided two years ago to focus on more political issues, such as monitoring elections in member c:oun­trics. 
"La Francophonie is a gen­t I e forre. At each stage, it takes a step in tlw right dirnc­tion," Chirac told a news con­ference after the closing cere­mony. 
"Me, l am very happy with the results," he said. 
Many francophone members are former French colonies in Africa who have seen some of the wnrst atrocities committed against civilians in recent years, including two civil wars in Congo and the genocide in Hwanda, which left 500,000 people dead. 
The issue of human rights wasn't on the official· summit agenda, but it came to domi­!Httfl the threA-day conference in this !1astern Canadian city. Protesters frnm Congo, Hwanda and Burllndi slagrd multiple rallies around the summit sites and newspaper editorials lambasted Canada !'or allowing alleged dietators into Urn countrv. 
In closed-do(Jr discussions, d1d1!gates also heard from young francophones -the focus ol' tlrn summit -of lhe horrors that wars have wrcaknd on their countries and th<1 nned fur an cud to atrocities against innocents. 
"These might be your wars, but we arc suffering," a Congoles<' teen-ager, Anne­Marie Kabnngo, told rtflkgatcs Saturday, according to a Canadian official present. 
La Francophonie was nstab­lislrnd a dozen years ago as an organization dedicated to pro­moting French la11guage and culture. At its 1997 summit in Hanoi. Vietnam, delegates decided to broaden its man­date into the political sphere, and appointed Boutros Boutros-Ghali as its first sec­retary general. 
Chretien rejected sugges­tions that the organization broadfrn its mandate further to be more aggressive in cracking dl)Wn on members with poor rights records, say­ing that task was best left to the United Nations. 
"The organization is not a military organization," he said. 
Ile acknowledged that the summit's final declaration didn't take into account his calls to establish firmer crite­ria on the human rights front for admiUing members -and said he didn't expect it to do so anytime soon. 
"But the fact that we have discussed it very openly .,. its a great progress forward," he said. "It's the beginning. It's not the end." 
The organization selected Beirut, Lnbanon as the site for its 2001 summit. 
HABITAT FOR HUMANITY 
General Information Meeting 
Monday, September 6 8 PM at the CSC 
Interested in constructi, m? Fundraisinpr Publi,:itv? Ed.111:atiun? Cunw find, ,ut llli ,r,~ about Nutn-• Dume Habitat., dw larw">.~t 1-1411 cnllAge 1~haptAr in thr-nati• ITI. 
September 8, 1999 
Washington Hall 
8:00 pm 
A part of their 40th Anniversary Tour for this traveling group of improv comics from Chicago 


2 0 0 0 
Pulliam Journalism Fellowships 
Graduating college seniors are invited to apply for the 27th annual Pulliam Journalism Fellowships. We will grant 10-week summer internships to 20 journalism or liberal arts majors in the August 1999-J une 2000 graduating classes. 
Previous internship or part-time experience at a newspaper is desired, or other demonstration of writing and reporting ability. Those who go through the Fellowships often find new professional opportunities opening up at other newspapers during and after the program. Winners will receive a $5,500 stipend and will work at either The Indianapolis Star or The Arizona Republic. Opportunities for online training are available, along with reporting experience at our major metropolitan daily newspapers. 
Early-admissions application postmark deadline is Nov. 15, 1999. By Dec. 15, 1999, up to five early-admissions winners will be notified. All other entries must be postmarked by March 1, 2000, and will be consid­ered with remaining early-admissions applicants. Successful applicants will be notified on or before April 1, 2000, and will be asked to respond immediately with a letter of intent, at which time one-third of the cash grant will be mailed to the Fellow. 
To request an application packet, visit our Web site, e-mail us or write: 


Russell B. Pulliam Pulliam Fellowships Director Indianapolis Newspapers 
Web site: www.stamews.com/pjf P.O. Box 145 E-mail: pulliarn@~tamew~.com 
Indianapolis, IN 46206-0145 



orldNation 

Monday, .Scpremher 6, 1999 COMPILED fR0M THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
AFP Photo 

Israeli police investigate the scene of a car bombing in the northern Israeli city of Tiberias Sunday. Three people died when two car bombs exploded within minutes of each other in the cities of Tiberlas and Haifa. Israeli officials quickly blamed the attacks on Palestinian terrorists. 
Bombings threaten peace accord 
WORLD News BRIEFS 
11-year-old-driver crashes, kills passenger 
HONAN, Monl. 
/\11 11-yP,tr-old girl driving lwr motlwr's rnr. appar(•nt.ly with 1wrrnission. lost control ol' llw vd1id(• and rrashcd. killing a 9-y(mr­11/d g-irl who wits ,l pass1H1gnr. ,wl.lwriiks said Sunday. Thi· pnss1•11gnr was thrown l'r-11111 tlH' 1·ar wlwn il 1·.raslwd Saturday niglil., Mo11lan11 lligliway l'atrolman Tim Wyckoff satr!. 'l'lirc>P girls Wl'l'I' in tlw rar, which 0Vf'r­h1r11('d twin• and ca111P to ri•sl on its I.op. Tho driv(•r 1111d a I:1-y1•c1r-old pas,wngPr W(irn lak1·11 to a hospital ,uHI rl\l1•us1·d with minor i11j111'11•s. Wyrkoff said llw drivnr l11ld him slw lost co11Lrol of Lllf• !'al' wlw11 shn rnad1nd down to pirk up sonwilii11g 011 llw 11oor. The rnr was lravding abolll 4:i mph and wont down an «'Illbanknwnt. Norw of llw girls worn a s1•al lwll. Homan is in norlhwnsl Montana. nbo111 !iO mill's norlh of Missoula. 
Father charged with killing daughter's boyfriend 
/\l'OPK/\, Fla. 
;\ l'alht•r ('Hrag<!rl liy his l :{-ypar-old claugh­tPr' s romann' with a IOth-gradP dropout f'alally shot thn boy as lw trind lo jump a fonce 1111 the family's lawn, authorities said. Shortly af'lpr midnight Saturday. I(1-yPar-old B1·r1iarclo Barragan snPakncl into h1biola c;o11zal1iz's y11rd and coaxnrl the girl ouL-;idn to Lalk to him. IIP liwd a fpw hot1S(\S away and had just rl'lunwd honw for tlw holiday W(1t1k­('llli. IIP and llis !'allwr had be!m working on a ro11strnrtio11 c-r1'w in soutlrnrn Florida. rnla­Livns said. Fabiola's l'athnr burst through the door. rilln in hand, and conl'ront,~d thn boy, said Orang(• County Slrnrilrs Otnce spoknsman /\11g!do Ni1wns. Hilt• two nxchanged words. Llwn .losP Carmen Gonzalnz shot Bnrnardo in LhP clwsl and slomach, authorities said. (;o,mtkz. 44, turn<'d himself in Sunday and was drnrgPd wilh murdPr. 
Greece welcomes Pope for first papal visit 
TII I•:SSAl.01\I Kl, Grnt>c(1 
l'rc•miPr Costas Simitis said Sunday that 1'11pc> .John l'aul I! was W!'lc'.omP to visit (;r<'l'!'t', dPspilt• objt•(·tions from tlw Cnwk ('hllrf'h to what would lw lhn l'irsl-Pver papal visit lo lllis ov,•nvliPllllingly Orthodox Christian rn11nlrv. Similis' invitation 1·a11w a day hdon· l!•ad.Prs of' tlw Crnl'k Orthodox Cli.urrh W!'J'(' to mt•P! lo disruss thn 1'01w·s dPsirP to s1•p this arwinnl country. wh!1n• tfw ,\pusli<' l'aul Olli'(' pr1\arh1·d at tlw fool of' IIH• /\!'.ropolis. Tiu• ponJilT has ('XprPssml a wish for a11 l'X!t•nsivf' pilgrimagP to biblical sil1•s. itH·luding CrPl'!'t' and Middln l•:astnrn plar.Ps. Sll('h as ligypt and .Jerusalmn. "Tlw l'opl' is ;1 !wad of statP, lw is wnlconw h!\I'!' as an• all lH•ads of stat!'," Simitis said. 
•ifirit«Etttt;;wnw
Dow 
A\.n::x: 
786.39 
JONES '7,ll< 
N11sdiu1:
235.24 
2!143.11 
n 
1 lil8.X7 
I\YSE: 
V 
625.89 •l•U6 
S& I' 500: 1357.2~
11078.45 I ,1,. I:i 
VOLUME LEADERS 
£S:11PW  T1Cl'-!;.R  ,  ('!!A.NCI:  I £W~ l:t!!!i~  
DtLL C'ONPIJ'f'l:P  DELL  t] .~.,  +L 1525  O.H  
NtC'II08OrT CORP  MSFT  .... 43  .,. Ofi7S  95. 88  
01\ACL" CORF  ORCL  +1 ,51  1-J. 06.:.5  u.,o  
fN'T'tL COJI.P  IN'l'C  +C .19  . ].991~  89. U  
PLAY 9Y H ..A,Y TO  P9YP  . lli0,85  . l. 112!1  6.H  
CU.CO SYB'T1JIIS  caco  +l. 9.t.  •J.6900  70.94  
MlA.'tON .COM me  AHW  +J.!Hi  . ';l.1?7'i  52.U  
APl'L.1 Cotll'UTll:ft  A'1•L,  ,, ,16  +.a, 'J15  7). 50  
AMERICA ONLJN&  MJL  +6 .09  +5. 5600  96. Bl  
CtTIGROUP 1NC  C  + 3. fl]  . l.68:25  45. fiJ:  

Composite Volume: 707,-100,000 
ISRAEL 

Associated Press 
TIHERIAS 
Two car blasts in north­ern Israeli cities killed three people on Sunday ­probably the bombers themselves -and left a fourth person in critical condition in attacks likely aimed at halting the newly revived peace process, police said. 
The explosions in the cities of Tiberius and Haifa came hours after a signing ceremony for the first Isranli-Palestinian peace agreement negotiated since the new Israeli prinH1 minister, Ehud Barak, took ol'licc. 
The land-for-security pact hinges on the l'al(istinians agreeing to fight terrorist attacks. 
[srael's Cabinet ratified 
East Timor election causes violence 
the pact by a 21-2 vote Sunday. But hardline oppo­nents to the peace process and even Prime Minster Ehud Barak's chief peace negotiator said attacks could derail the deal. 
/\t both bombing scenes, police quickly sealed off the areas and demolition experts moved in. Witnesses described scenes of carnage, with limbs torn from bodies and broken glass and twisted metal lit­tering the streets. In Tiberias. the burned remains of one of the alleged bombers was draped on the hood of the car. 
"I was near the main street and I heard a great explosion," an eyewitness to the Tiberius blast, idcm­tified only as Boni, told army radio. "We ran to the place of the attack and saw forces." /\na Gomes, Lisbon's diplomatic 1rnvoy to Jakarta, told Portugal's TSF radio. "Over 100 dead would bo a consr.rvativn estimate." 
Indonesian officials have d(rnied backing Lim anti­independence militias. Armed forces chief Gen. Wiranto, who like many Indonesians uses 01m name. has s1mt two more battalions -al:fout l .400 troops -to keep order in the province. 
Portugal, East Tirnor's former colonial ruler. strongly ch asti zed Indonesian authorities Sunday for failing to curb 
three bodies burned, body parts in the air.... They cleared us from the area." 
The three dead were all inside the cars, Haifa police Commander Dor Schecter told reporters. suggesting those killed were the attackers. I-le said the almost-simultaneous explosions in the two towns 60 miles apart indi­cated a coordinated attack. 
"The circumstances. the timing ... indeed suggest a political motive," Schecter said. He said police were investigating all possibili­ties. 
Militant Islamic groups, believing the peace process to be a sellout and furious that their members were left out of a prisoner­release deal, have vowed to continue attacks within Israel. 
However, there was no the brutal rampag!i. The spiraling violencn "dPrnon­strates the l'lagrant inrn­paci ty or lndonosian authorities to control tlw siluat.ion and to reslon1 order in East Timor." a govn r n 111 en t statnm() n t said. 
Th11 U.N. Security Council. meanwhile, began an nnwrgmH:y 111nnting late Sunday in New York to r,onsidcr tlw detPriorating situation, discussing con· tingnncy plans f'or handling tlw upsurge of violnncn. 
"The killing in l!ast Timor must stop." Portuguese Ambassador Antonio Monteiro said. 
immediate claim of respon­sibility for the blasts. 
The big question was the impact the bombs could have on the peace process. 
Israel's Foreign Minister. David Levy. told Israel radio that Yasser /\rafat's Palestinian Authority knows "no act of terror is acceptable or will be acceptabln alongside the peace process." But he said the government wants to know all the facts bnforn commenting further. 
Gilead Sher, who served as Barak's envoy during talks with tlrn Palnstinians leading up to tho latest accord, suggtisted that attacks likn these could derail peace efforts. 
"If we don't have suffi­cient sncurity here in Israel. I think tho poaC!l process is in dangnr of' col­lapse," he said. 

Associated Press 
DILi, Indonesia 
Tens or thousands of JH'ople crammed aboard ferries and planns to nee East Timor on Sunday, as pro-Indonesian militias lrnsioged a U.N. compound and sot fire to homes bdonging lo people who support inclopendence for tho provinrn. 
Casualty rnports worn impossible to verify, though witnesses said scores wern killed Sunday in the former l'ortuguese colony. Staff at two hospi­
lals said they had treated about a dozen patients for machete wounds. 
Indonesian security forces, responsible for keeping the peac(i in East Timor since an ov<'r· whelming majority voted for indcpnndcnce, appeared to do little to stop tlw rampaging mili­tias l'rom taking control of the provincial capital, Dili. 
There is strong evidence that tlrn militias am sup­ported by elements of the Indonesian armv. 
"There is every indica­tion that a massacre is tak­ing plare, staged by [Indonesian] military 
Monday, September 6, 1999

page 6 The Observer . NEWS 

and lfl teams. but had no aware of its allegiance to the Cook said.
"The game was more 
national post-season play or association, and wished to keep All athletic rosters have
Sports 
recruiting benefits. important to each team's tics to the association strong. experienced an incrPase in An additional challenge to record and pride-it was "We could still maintain a players this year, with one­
continued from page I 
the program was a disinte­competitive schedule with some third of all athletes recruited
like proving who was the
graling relationship with of our strong NAIA teams, and incoming freshmen.
"Once in a lifetime perhaps, 
Notre Dame, who was the pro­top kid on the block." could expand these schedules Saint Mary's also boasted 29
but nonetheless true''' the 
gram's main rivalry in and still use the competitive MIAA student-athletes l'or thflgirls commented to the South 
women's sports. NAIA teams to 'fill in,"' the 1998-99 athletic seasons,
Bend Tribune. Coach Dallesio 
"Although the rivalry is a report reads. proving they are competitive
While the field hockey team fonner Saint Mary's
fairly new one, the intensity is After threo years of applica­in the conference. 
was the only team to partic­
high," Mary UiStanislao, for­basketbal~ coach tions, campus debate and pre­"Saint Mary's is definitely a
ipate in actual competition 
mer Notre Dame women's liminary investigations. Saint positive addition to the confor­that year, within the next five 
basketball coach, said. the association, ranking 38 Mary's attained full member­c ncr," Cook said_ "We havo 
years basketball, an equestri­HoweVf1r, with Notre Dame out of 490 women's inten:olle­ship into the NCAA Division m proved that we are real con­an team, tennis, canoeing, vol­no longer a Division [II team, giato tea.ms in their first year for the 1991.-92 season_ tenders in this confernnce, Wr,
lcvball, track and field. 
the series soon began to dissi­in the conference. aren't hero to be anyone's
archery, golf, badminton and pate, leaving Saint Mary's in doormat."
hiking were introduced. The next steps
the dust. Improvements to the athletic
Growing out of their shoes Independent until 1997,
''The game was more impor­program may rely less on
By 1988, Saint Mary's was Saint Mary's took its most
Conference affiliations 
tant to each tf'am's record and recruiting and competition as
ready to grow again and joined recent step lJy applying for
By 1982, the College had pride-it was like proving who it will on facilitios, somothing
as a member of NCAA Division conference membership in the
established a full-fledged var­joining the MIAA forces Saint
was the top kid on the block," 
III. Michigan IntrHcollegiatP
sity sports program. Teams Mary's to evaluate.
said Coach Dallesio, former 
lf the athletic teams were to Athletic Association. 
included softball, swimming While boasting the best vol­
head coach of Saint Mary's continue to grow, recruiting Undergoing a two-year pro­
and diving. volleyball, gym­hasketball. leyball and basketball lloor in
would have to increase, some­Yisional membership period to
nastics, crnw and basketball. With the desire to field more the conference, installed just
thing that was a struggle under evaluate the College's academ­
fifty years after tho first 
varsity teams, develop a sta­last September, and arguably
the \\'.AJA affiliation. ic and athletic compatibility
intercollegiate competition, ble schedule, and acquire the best soccer field, Saint
"It appears that more high with tho conference, the
Saint Mary's celebrated per­recruiting benefits, Saint Mary's still lacks a swimming
school students and their par­College learned of its accep­
haps its most successful ath­pool and a track.
Mary's applied for conference c n ts and coaclrns are more tance in May.
letic campaign at the time. "The students, the adminis­
membNship in the National 
familiar with the NCAA and per­Citing recruiting and stabili­
Fielding seven varsity teams, tration and the prospective
Association of Intercollegiate 
ceive it as the 'bettN' organiza­ty as two benefits of joining
the women secured a state Athletics (NAIAI and became a students are creating this
tion," a report roads, "'Better' is the conference, Saint Mary's
championship in softball, six demand," Cook said_ 
full-fledged member in August not necessarily correct, but the seeks to build on the same
all-state player awards and 1982. Six new tennis courts, as
NCAA is more<\videly covered in goals that have motivatedseven individual state titles. 
With a stable schedule and woll as new treadmills and
the media, and is therefore, their former conference and
Yet as the teams' ability conference under its belt, trainors, aro on slate for this 
more familiar to most people." association afliliations.
increased, scheduling and year's improvements.
Saint Mary's fielded canoeing, 
The athletic schedule for "[Sine/' participating in the
growth restrictions served as "We need these things
volleyball, track and field, 
teams in 1988 boasted a majori­provisional membership], our
obstacles. softball, swimming and diving upgraded so that we can bll a
ty of Division III teams, where recruitment of student-ath­
Not yet a contender for con­contender for MIAA champi­
and gymnastics. Finishing the Saint Mary's upheld a competi­letes has risen 30 percent over
ference affiliation, Saint 
1982-83 seasons, Saint Mary's onships down the road," Cook
tive stance. the past two years," former
Mary's teams scheduled 
ranked in the upper-third of said.
However, the College was acting athletic director Jini
games with local Division I, II 

Wolfie's 
Pasta, Sandwiches, Service & More!!! 
243-991 l-rorFREE DELIVERY 
f--ND EAT PURDUE :LUNCH (10 am till 4pm)7
., ­: but don't spit them out "Coke®" & Chips
Begin training now! On Saturday, September 25, 1999 !I 50¢ off FREE 
I 
~ 

Wolfie's will see who can eat the I I Leprechauns or wolverines pasta with any Sandwich purchase 
I 
: EXPIRES 09/11/1999 EXPIRES 07/01/2000 
most 4th degree hot wings. 
~-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------;
:LATE NIGHT (9pmtillClose): SNACK PACK
First Prize 
I 
I I Garlic bread 2-Garlic Bread w/Cheese & 2 -Cokes®
2 tix to ND vs. Oklahoma 
I I I 
I FREE
Details available at Wolfie's I $5
I 
I I with 12 wings
I 
: EXPIRES 07/01/2000 EXPIRES 07/01/2000 
L-----------------------------------i-----------------------------------~ 
Subs, Hoagies or Grinders-no matter what you call it, it's still a Sandwich. 
MONDAY free chips w/any  TUESDAY 2 [er Tuesda)".  WEDNESDAY 50¢ off 8" sandwich  THURSDAY Large Pasta $3.99  FRIDAY $1 off any 16" sandwich  SATURDAY 6 wings free w/any party sub  SUNDAY free slaw or potato· salad w/any 12" 
sandwich-all day  2nd pasta 1/2 price  

Menu & more available at WWW.WOLFIES.COM 
-..----------------·--------
MonJay, September 6, 1999 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
THE KEOUGH INSTITUTE FOR IRISH STUDIES 
PRESENTS A LECTURE 

Tuesday, September 7, 1999 7: 15 p.m. 100-104 McKenna Hall 
Joseph McMinn is professor of Anglo-Irish studies and head of English at the University of Ulster, Jordanstown, outside Belfast, in Northern Ireland. He has published widely on eighteenth-century Irish studies, including Swift's Irish Pamphlets, Swift: A Literary Life and Jonathan's Travels: Swift and Ireland. He has also written extensively on the contemporary Irish novelist, John Banville, including 77,e Supreme Fictions of John Banville. He is presently researching the 
influence of pictorial art on writers. ___________________,. 
RUSSIA 
22 Russians dead in Dagestan bombings 
As•oda1ed Press 
BUINAKSK 

Hescue workers and fran lie relatives searched for survivors Sunday after a bomb destroyed a five-story building housing the families or Hussian army offi­cers, leaving at least 22 dr,ad and 102 injured. 
Ilours after the blast Saturday night in the southern republic of Dagestan, hundreds of Islamic fighters crossed the border from neigh ho ring Chechnya and seized !'our vil­lages. Hussian officials blamed Urn bomb attack on Islamic mil­itants, who have been battling focleral forces in the region for the past month. 
llysterical and sobbing sur­vivors railed out the names of' missing rnlatives and neighbors as rescue workers pulled away shattered walls and masonry. Police said some people were unaccountfld for, but they could not say how many wcmi miss­ing. 
"My wife and 13-year-old daughter were in a first-11oor apartment. I feel that they am still alive, but we can't reach 
them,"  said  Col.  Kami!  
Gamidov, who  lived  in  the  
building.  

Authorities said the blast was caused by a powerful car bomb. A second bomb in another car was found and defused Sunday in the complex, thoy said. 
Tho blast was in a military housing area of the Hussian army's 156th Brigade. The dnad and injured includnd many wonrnn and children. J\ngry rnsidnnts dnmanded tough action against. t.he mili­tants. 
"Damn you all," shoul!)d one distraught woman. "We will also go to light." 
The blast lef't a crater ninn /'net deep next to the shatwrnd building. The blast badly dam­aged two nearby buildings and shattr.red windows throughout the compl!~x. 
President Boris Yeltsin was "deeply outraged" by tlw bomb­ing, prnsidential spokesman Dmitry Yakushkin said Sunday. 
Hussian forces havn bcrnn fighting Islamic rebels for Urn past month in Dagcstan with bitter clashes in recent days in villages near Huinaksk. The fighting involves local Islamic rebels and their allies from neighboring Chechnya, which has de facto independence. 
Shortly after the bombing, several hundred Islamic fight­ers crossed the border from Chechnya on Sunday. clashed with police and seized control of four villagtls, oflicials said. ,\ Hussian armored column was sent to the fighting in a district 40 miles northwest of Buinaksk. 






The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
page 8 
FINLAND 
EU grapples with language issue, Turkish membership 
You chose the right school. Now choose the right tools. 
Save hundreds on extras when you buyaMacintosh: 


11 languages.
. Germany objects 
Finnish Foreign Minister Tarjato policy of dual Halomm, the host, was deter· mined not to let the spat spoil the
language meetings 
two days of talks at Saarisclka. "I can assure you ... the atmos· phere is very good," she told Associated Press 
reporters before the meetings 
began Saturday. "I hope that this 
SAI\RISELKA question isn't made more dra­
When European ljnion foreign matic than it is." ministers sat down at the weck­
However, Spanish Foreign e nd to discuss international 
Minister Abel Matutes said that if issues at a remote ski resort in participants used other lan­
Lapland, they werri faced with a guages than English or French, problem of their own: which lan­he would insist on speaking guages to usn. Spanish. 
The union's expansion east­"We are in favor of following 
ward, aid to quake victims in established procedures. If them Turkey and the situation in East is any new language to be used, Timor took a back seat briefly as of course Spain is going to use participants wrangled about how 
the Spanish language," Matutcs 
to communicate at inforr\1al EU said. Italian Fornign Minister
nwetings. 
Germany, which had boycotted Lamberto Dini agrr.ed. "No coun­
two smallnr nwetings in Finland try should brnak tho rules. We last month because no interpre· will insist on continuing with two tation was provided into German. working languages at informal 
started the language game lrnre meetings," lH1 said. 
when Foreign Ministr.r Joschka In the end the issue 
was Fischer spoke in his own tongue pushed over lo the Sept. 13 for­although he is tluent in English. 
eign mini_sters' meeting in This angered the Spanish and Brussels. Italian ministers who wanted to When the 15 foreign ministers retain the practice of keeping and NATO Secretary General 
English and French -plus the Javier Solana lined up for the 
language of the host country -"family" portrait of the meeting 
as the main languages at infor­participants. Halonen put a 
mal gatherings. 
humorous spin on the spat. The point is to keep most inter­"We were laughing about what preters home, the meeting infor­language lo in the photo­
use mal and the costs down. At regu­graph and I suggested Sarni. lar meetings, interpretation is Luckily, no one asked which of 
provided from and into the EU's the three Sarni languages." 
Purchasean iMacand
IIEttmm JIS.m ~ 
~-receive: 
17-lnch Apple
$150 Off 128MB of RAM $50off $50off ~f8
Studb Dl:;play 
lomegaUSB Connectlx Virtual PC
$100 off g~:;,h0=-$50off Zip Drive $50off 
with Windows 98 

HPDesl<Jet810C Connectix Virtual PC Epson Stylus Color$75off for Maclnto!lh Printer $50off with Wim1o'NS 98 $50off 740i USS Printer 
Iomega USB Ep--..on S1ylus Cobr$50off Zip Dmie $50off 7401 USB Printer 
Connectix Vlrtual PC$50off With Window., 96 
Epoon S1ylu• Cobr
$50off 740i USB Printer A.5k yourApplecampus resellerfor details orvisit www.apple.com/education/store. Offer valid through Cxtooer22. 
ship but snubbed Turkey,
"[It is in Greece's} own

. Greece finally sending relations with 
drops standing interest to see Turkey Ankara into a dmip frer.ze. At move closer to Europe. the December meeting. the,
feud with Turkey 
leaders will likely add Turkey to the candidates list.
George Papandreou 
setting a "road map" ol' eco­

Associated Press 
Greek Foreign Minister nomic and demor,ratic tar­gets the country must meet 
SMRISELK/\ 
en mute to membership.In a significant change of 
But Turkey still faces an 

heart, Greece told its long-standing differences, uphill battle to meet nrnm­European Union partners notably oNer Cyprus and bership requirements,Sunday it no longer objects Aegean Sea territory. 
British Foreign Secretary to longtime rival Turkey join­Greece had long opposed 
Robin Cook said. To date, the ing the EU. Turkish EC membership. EU nation's duhious human Greece wou Id favor officials praised the new pol• rights record, an incompati­
Turkish membership as long icy as a breakthrough that ble economy and llw territo­as the union does not ease promises to end years of 
rial disputPs with Gre!'Cc 1mtrv conditions for its east­Greek vetoes of funding pro­
have hampered its chances. 

ern ·neighbor, Greek oflicials 
grams for Ankara. The otlwr nations that ar1• said after a weekend EU for­The new Greek attitude fol­
candirlaws for EU nrnrnbnr­eign ministers' meeting. lows two decades in which ship inr,ludn Poland, Greer,r. now belinves it is successive governments in 
Ilungary, thP Czech "in its own interest to see Athens maintain11d hostile 
Republic. Slovenia, Estonia,Turkey move closer to relations with Turkey. On Cyprus, Romania, Bulgaria,
Europi1," Foreign Minister several occasions, the two 
Latvia. Lithuania and Gcorgn Papandreou said. lfo NATO allies have come close 
Slovakia. 

said he spoke with Ismail to going to war. Com, his Turkish counter­To celebrate the thaw in part, by telephone Saturday relations, Cem was invited to 
IIIIHSITY IIIIDIY & TIIIIIB

night. meet with tlrn EC foreign 
As a gesture of goodwill, ministers in Brussels on IEPTIIIER SPEClllS: Greece '"'·on't block hundreds Sept. 13. of millions of dollars in EU The Greek decision bodes 
grants and loans to holp well for a Dec. 15-16 summit FREE DRYING AllMONTH Turkey rebuild from last in Helsinki, where the 15 EU 
DROP OFF LAUNDRY 49C /LB.

month's devastating earth­leaders are to assess their quake, Papandreou said at two-year-old eastward $4MINIMUM the meeting in this ski resort expansion program. inside the Arctic Circle. But In 1997. the EU named he told colleagues that. · Cyprus and 10 eastern and TANNING 10 VISITS $19.99 Greece and Turkey still have northern European countries 
TO BE USED WITHIN 3MONTHS 

a long way to go to settle as candidates for member­
Ch005inganApple• Computerfor sd-1001 has always been asmart move. And now it's anobrainer. Becall'le now when you purchase an iMac™, aPowerMadntooh• G3, orPowerBook'" G3, you can buya ton of useful accessories and get up to $150offeach. 
,JI 

•· Think differenr 
-·tr 
219-611-7477 
Df8Dr1i'9r~~" -21v<...i..-_, 

~C..-Ma!l.llukling ~1hw~t.w~ 
Clf4IO!l-4to~QQ'~i; 


Monday, September 6, 1999 The Observer . TECHNOLOGY NEWS page 9 
FRANCE 
Francophiles fear English domination on the Internet 
Associated l'rrss 
l'J\HIS 
As a giant clock on the EiffPI Tow1ir ticks away thn remain­ing days of thn 20th cnntury, sonw Frnnch lobbyists aro scrambling to ensure that cylwrspac11 donsn 't lmLve thnir lunguagP in Um dustbin of' his­tory. 
F~,r y1mrs, staunc,h dnfondnrs ol' tlw Fr1rnch lan"huagn havo halllPd to stern what thHy S«\e us an Amnri<"an invasion of thl·ir rulturn, succussfully passing a snri11s of laws limit­ing tlw prnsnncll of J\tn1\ric:an songs and shows in Fr1:nch nwdia. 
Now llmy'rn s<wking to limit Llw usn of' Fnglisl1 on what they s111• as thn nnw1•st thrnat: tho l11lerrll'I. 
" T lw III l" rrrn I. m u s t hav o law!! g11v1•rni11g it. ll cannot lw a savagi• world wlrnrn 1wPry­hody 1·1tn do as tlwy plnas11," says :v1arcPau llPrhamps. a ri•lirt·d workPr in tlw tndrnolo­gy industry who now is vicn pn•sid1•nL ol' Lim group l)pfcns,; of Ll11i Fn•nrh Language. 
IJPrhamps, wh11s1• group has successfully sued companies for using 1•:nglish while aclvnr­lis ing in Franrc•, maintains 1·u1-rnnl l11ws ainwcl al prPsPrv­
ing Ltrn Frnnch language should apply to Internet sites as well. ­
Although his group has only bci;n involved in one lnltirnct.­rclated court case so far..he foresees further legal action. 
Decliamps' group, in cooper­ation with another watchdog association, spurred debate when they brought a 1997 law­suit against thl' Georgia Institute of Technology's cam­pus in Metz, France, for creat­ing an English-language Web sit1i. 
Thn group said that b1icause tlrn Wnb site was created in France, it was Lhcrel'oro adver­tising in Francn, and thus sub­jel'l Lo French law. 
A French court rult1d in Coorgia Tech's favor, but becausn of faulty legal procfl­d urn on th,~ plaintiffs' part, !Paving opm1 tlrn question or linguistic obligations on tho WPb. 
llowever, facing possible lirws of' up to $4,:mo nach time tlw sito was accossPd. the uni­vnrsiLy latPr translated the site into French and German. 
DPchamps' group taps into a common snnlimc:nt in France. Prnsidcnl .lacqu1-1s Chirac said in I<J95 that "I do not want Lo s1it' Europnan culturn sterilized or oblitcrat,~d by i\mcrican 
'The Internet is accessed 
by people around the 
world. To impose a 
language on it would be 
slupid and a pity." 
Herve Ballan French Web designer 
culture," Hut some people feel his group is going too far. 
"The Internet is accessed by people around the world. To impose a language on it would be stupid and a pity," says Herve Ballan, a Web site designer for ;\ccriens Productions in Paris. 
Many people also point to a need to be practical, noting that English is the dominant language on the Internet and that Dechamps' approach risks closing France off from the world. 
Dechamps' group already has claimed victory in the field of softwarn lc:gislation, winnin~ a court case last year against a computer slore that sol'd a graphics program in English. 
The past decade has seen a slew of legislative changes intended to protect the French language and entnrtainmenl industry. 
In August 1994. a law made thn use of the French language mandatory for advertising, labeling and instruction manu­als or all products and services sold in France. 
TV and radio commercials cannot be aired in a foreign language. But foreign lan­guages may be used in other media, when a French transla­tion is as "legible, audible, and intelligible." 
The law leads to creative et'forts to get around the restrictions. For example, some billboard ads are written in English with microscopic letters at the bottom giving the French translation. 
Government commissions also preside over an ever­growing list -currently at almost 120,000 -or English words or English-based terms that may not be used in official French documents. Hathcr than "fax," for example. thfl word "telecopin" must be used. 
At least 40 percent of pro­graming shown on television must be of French origin, and an additional 20 percent must come from other European countries. 
A minimum of 40 percent, of the songs played on the radio must be in French, 20 percent of which must be new talent. 
to develop the French stars of tomorrow. 
On both TV and radio, the ratio has to be maintainnd dur­ing prime time, meaning a TV station can't run only Ilollywood series during peak hours and leave the French programs for less desirable hours. 
There are still no laws regarding movie theaters, as the number of French films released in Franco continues to outnumber Amnric11n ones. However, in this country of under 60 million poople, more than 20 million tickets to the Hollywood blockbuster "Titanic" worn sold last year. 

Only Canada's predominantly French-speaking province of Quebec, which has even stricter language laws, has made efforts comparable to those or France, 
Despite all the measures, Derhamps says i\m11rican "cul­tural colonization" continuns to threaten the French lan­guage. 
"Systematically, tlrn world is being invaded by Anglo­American words," he says. "It's a problem of' dosage. You can sprinkln a dish with spices and add to its flavor, but if you dump a whole bottle of spicn, the food lrncomes inndibln." 

A Lecture 
Sex, 
.From 
By Wendy Shalit Author 1999 Bestseller 
A RETURN TO MODESTY DISCOVERING THE LOST VIRTUE: 
"A heartfelt (and controversial) plea, insisting that the power to heal the American female's ills lies in the reinstatement of sexual restraint, resurrection of romantic ideals, and simple good rnanners...The message of this book is rarely heard, it is audacious." 
(Kirkus Reviews) 
"Hers is not a back-to-the-corsets conservative creed, but rather a criticism of the scant respect that young men have for women...Shalit appeals for an end to exhibi­tionisn1 and one-night stands and intelligently promotes modesty in dress, etiquette, and morals as a means to a happier and more erotic life for women. Well-organized, briskly written advocacy. 
(Booklist) 

VIEWPOINT 
page I 0 OBSERVER Monday, September 6, 1999 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O Box Q, Norrc Dame. IN 46556 024 Sou,h Dining Hall., Nom Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CIIIEI' 
Michdle Krupa 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
M, Sll;lnnon Rvan  David Rogero  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  
Laura Petelle  

NEWS EDITOR: Tim Logan 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughen 
SPORTS f'.OITOR: Brian Ke"ler 
SCFNE EDITOR: Michael Vanegas 
SAINT MARY'S 1'DITOR: Noreen Gillespie 
PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Dalum 
ADVERTISING MANAGU: Bryan Lutz 
An DL,IGN MANAGER: Bret I-luelat 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kushco 
CoNTHOLLER: Timothy Lme 
GRAl'll!CS EDITOR: Joe M t1eller 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANACERIGENERAl. INFO ............. GJ 1-7471 FAX........... . ............................... 631-6927 ADVtRTl~ING .....................................6.3 J-6900/3840 
observcr@d;i rwi 11.cc. nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF.............. ................. 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/A'iST. ME.......... ..........631-454 I BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS.........................................................631-5323 observer.obsnews. J@nd.edu VIEWPOINT ......................................... 631-5303 observer.viewpoinr. l@nd.edu SPORTS..... .. ............_..........................651-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu SCENE.... .........................................631-4540 observer.scene. I@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S... ..........................6Jl-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu 
PHOTO.............. 
·····················631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS ................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates oFcampus news, sporrs, features and opinion columns. as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from rhe Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for t1p-ro-the 
movies/music for 
minuce forecasrs 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rates ofpri nr ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives ro search for 
about The Observer 
articles published alter 
to meet rhe editors and 
Augusr 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the Universiry of Norre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. Acring as pub­lisher ofThe Observer, the administration of the University of Norre Dame du Lac prohibits rhe adver­tisement ofalcohol and The Observer's acceptance of advertisements from specified types ofgroups. 
The news is reported as accurately and obiectivdy as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing Edimr. Assistant Managing Editor and departmcnr editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofrhe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoim space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Q11minm r~arding Observer policies should be direct­ed ro Editor in Gie/Michelle Krupa. 

'Zest for Life' is a Path to Death 
Earlier this spring. a 1:1-yfmr National Hockey League veteran was killed when his pickup truck "went out of control and rolled." Initial accounts on the sports pages men­tioned that "team­mates and family 
Cappy Gagnon 
members" remem­bered tho player as having a "zest for life." For those Cappy's who don't under­Corner stand sport­speak. having a zest for life is a euphemism for what would be called a drinking problem in other quarters. 
Sure enough, when the toxicology report came in, the defcnsernan was found to have a blood alcohol level of 
0.27. For those of you who arc not familiar with blood alcohol terminolo­gy, it might be instructive to examine what these numbers equate to. A nor­mal-sized Notre Dame male student consuming 3 to 4 drinks over a sever­al-hour period, while munching down a medium pepperoni pizza, should safely blow less than a .08 -which is becoming the new presumptive stan­dard for intoxication. 
Once above .10 (called point-one-oh in copspeak), a person enters into that phase where he thinks he is HEALLY funny/attractive to women/macho/adept at driving fast/better able to call plays than Coach Davie/ etc. This is the danger­ous zone. especially when combined with a fast moving automobile. 
In the case I am writing about, this guy's blood alcohol was at 0. 27, a place otherwise known as "where Hod Serling hung out." This guy was no longer zesting for life -he was on an inexorable path to the end of his life. 
As if our life zester wasn't treading on unsafe enough ground, he decided that he was too tough Lo need a seat belt. No police offker in America will be surprised to learn that the next zest our boy felt was tlrn exhilaration of being airborne. These out-of-truck landings seldom end well for the humans involved. since most objects which break their fall (e.g. roads. trees, vehicles, etc.) am r<~latively immovable and will usually break lots of body parts instead. 
Fc>ur times during the past two years, l\otre DamH student security workers have done surveys of campus seat belt usage as part of'.a federal study. The compliance with Indiana law (and respect for the laws of' immovable objects) is pretty good among the Notrn Dame family. We're generally between 70 and 75 percent at our test locations (although varsity athletes seem to be lower, with foot­ball players having the most zest for life). 
The saddest\ part of the news accounts of the puckster's death was the mention of his children, aged 7. 4 and 2. They will grow up with only dim memories of their father. When they are old enough to understand. I bet they will wish that their dad had MORE zest for their lives and less zest for Budweiser. 
Not long after. I wrote the above, another NHL defenseman died when he foll out of a boat and was struck by its propeller. According to press accounts. the player was accompa­nied by "a local woman identified as Michelle Monroe, who had met the player on the beach" and "alcohol was consumed by the boating party." There was no mention of "zest for life," but l presume that's one of the reasons he brought along Michelle Monroe (Nominal Determinism: Kim Dunbar's best friend). 
It takrs courngc to resist peer pn,s­sure surrounding drinking. Pro ath­letes and college students often have trouble resisting thcsc> urgns. OnrP nntnring tlrn "zest for life" zone. f'nw peopln haw thn capability to think and act rnasonably. Tlw only nxplana­tion why MOHE pc>rsons arP1i't killml and mainwd by ext·Pssive imbibing is th11 pn~senr,e of good angds looking over tlwm. 
In a recent ;\1111 Lanlkrs 1:olumn, a reader wrote that lw had learnml his lesson aftPr causing tlrn sPrious injury of two persons as tlw msult ol' a DUI with· folony assault. lln wrotli that his blood alcohol level was .:Bo (a littl1) bit shy of comatosn). lie stated that lw has lost his licensn, job. llanr1'. honw and sclf-rnsp1)ct. I !is final slatPmPnt was that lw will takn a taxi tlw next time Im has loo much to drink. Ynp, I'm sure ol' it. ;\fter lw bells down his eighth shot of Yukon Jack, lw'II bn very clear-headed. whil11 lw looks for Michelle Monroe to go for a boat ride or play hockny. 
Within days of finishing this column, a vetc>ran NFL football lineman suf­fered thn "nnar amputation" of his right arm, following a car accident. The driver was going at a fast rate of speed (surprise No. 1) and the two injured playnrs were NOT wearing their seat !mils (color me shocked!)· and were ejected from the car. 
The next time you're at an evnnl where alcohol is present, please exer­cise some restraint. Think of your future children. You don't want to be in an Ann Landers column! i\nd. whether inebriated or not, PLEASE buckle up! 
Cappy Gagnon, '66, is the Coordinator ofStadium personnel. lie often went without wearing his seal belt, until his 10-year-old daughter, Marnie, asked him lo buckle up. 
The uiews expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those uf The Observer. 
DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS 
C~ROL, COME. HERE.!  TI-\E  SOFTW.A.RE  IS  
~LL OF  MY  WORDS  TELLING 'YOU Tl-l~T  
HAVE  SQUI GGLES  EVER.Y  SENTENCE  
UNDER  THEM!  'YOU WROTE 1-H::..S  
e,,c,..o  GR..A.MMI\R.  
E  
0  
0  
t:'.  
<I>  
:!:!  
'c  
:ii  

:'; 
-------~..._____.i.., :'; \-...-.......1,......,J,___....,Qi,.j...,.,...;i.....1...-.J 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Think wrongly ifyou please, but in all cases thinkfor yourse(f" 
Doris Lessing 


VIEWPOINT 
Monday, September 6. 1999 
OBSERVER page 11 
EDITORIAL 
Observer disagrees with advertising restrictions 
On Aug. 2:l, ThP Obsnrvor roct>ivnd !'mm Urn healthy discussion and allow people to make omen of Llw l'rnsid1\lll of the University a educated, informed decisions. wrill1m policy slatPnwnl SJ)f\cilh:ally prohibit• The Observer l'f•els a certain responsibility ing lhc uccepli111cc' o!' adc; from Cay and to its readers -predominantly Catholic, col­l.nshian Alumni or Notrn Danw and Saint le,<e-educated young adults -to provide per­Mary's {C/\1./\-NDISMC) and from "outsidn tinent information through i. ditorial anrl 
groups that, dirnctly or  advcrlising content.  
i11rlirPctly, cspo11s1\ posi­tions eontrarv lo tlw Wal'hings uf' lhn Catholic Churl'h."  "Hy restricting advertising in The Observer based on decisions made in  With that readership in mind, the newspaper ad()pts its ovvn policy to rel'use ads that are not  
As l1igal publislwr or the indHpP1Hl1111L, stucl11m-run rwwspap11r. Notrc> lla11w's administration can impose  an administrative forum, Notre Dame denies its community  rele\'ant to its community members and adheres to professional advertising standards when choosing  
SUC'.h a rnst.ricti,m. Tlw ObsnrvPr Pditorial hoard, hoWPV'ff, disagrP1:s with 1h11 ban and would not  easy access to ideas and options which .fusler heallhy discussion and allow  not to prim, for instance, ads including profanity, nudity and tobacco. Those self-imposed  
ril11os1• such a 1wlicy for ilsl'!I'. To cm1111wnl 011 this  people to make educated. in.fcJrmed decisions.  restrictions reflect respect !'or students, parents, l'ac­uhy, staff and alumni of  
iss1w plal'f'S tlrn board in  Lim University and the  

a clirtkult and unusual circumstance. College, while still offering a broad base of N1•wspapcr advnrlising policy typically is knowledge -which sometimes includes ideas mad11 in private, with publislwrs and editorial that do 1101 coincide with Catholic teaching. board m1:mlwrs voicing sonrntimes-<li!Tering We rnalize Notre Dame walks a line line opinions lwhind l'ios1id doors. Harnly are thn with this issue, but a university should allow community's lawmakers involvnd in this its students to be exposed to issues arid proc<~ss. should provide support based on whole 
At Notrl' Danw. lww1ivPr. tlw dailv student undnrslanding and truth. By restricting the 111',vspaptir's publish1·r is also its co;nmunity's information students receive through adver­law111akl'r and administralor. Ullinrntely, llrn tisements. the university encourages its stu­sa11rn Pnlity which d<>ni<'S n•cognition to stu­dents to stumble blindly toward a particular d1•11L and alumni groups alsll <'.an prllhibil iclnology. thosl' groups from advPrlising in tlw nrndia. The rornerstone of a university should be 
With !his as tlw casP, TIH• Obsc•rvl'r's ndito­academic and inLnllectual freedom. Excluding rial board lrnliPves llw L11iv11rsity's rnstric· C<fftain ideas by banning advertisements crip­Lions havP impli('ations morf\ profound than ples a community devoted to honest discus­orw nnwspap11r policy. sion. 
l!y restricting adv1irlising in Tlw Observnr hased on dp1·isions macl1• in an administrativn forum, Nlltrn Danw de11il's its commu11ity nasy atT1~ss to ideas aml options which foster 
Brown not at fault for loss 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
While most of us will enjoy the heroic victories organized labor has afforded us -senior­ity, the forty-hour work week, fair and safe working condi­tions and adequate health ben­efits -we sometimes forget the sacrifices made by American workers so that we could sustain a comfortable lifestyle. 
More importantly, !et us remember that the struggle continues. In many cases, the workers who harvest the food we eat, sew the clothes we wear and clean the bathrooms we use face injustice on a daily basis. Favoritism, discrimina· tion, unsafe and unhealthy working conditions, inadequate healthcare, meager wages, threat of workplace relocation and outsourcing and long hours prevent these workers from achieving dignity in their careers. 
As a result, the l~bor move­ment has undertaken organiz­ing as its active priority. This summer, I assisted some of these workers in their struggles toward justice. As a union organizer, I witnessed workers who chose to stand together for justice and let their voices be heard. Exploitative wages. Toxic fumes. Dangerous mate­rials. Serious infection and res­piratory complications from working conditions. No safety equipment. Red, glassy eyes, skin black from soot, feet tired after standing for 16 hours. Filthy working conditions. No lunch breaks or accessible water in factories where tem­peratures often exceeded 110 degrees. Pregnant women bending over to carry heavy boxes. No health insurance. Racial discrimination. Sexual harassment. Intimidation. Fortunately, through unioniza­tion, these men and women not only eradicated such horrid. conditions but achieved a new found dignity and sense of self­empowerment. 
You may wonder ... where are these horrific sweatshops? Did I spon<l my summer in the Maquiladoras? Indonesia? Fl Salvador? No, in Detroit, Mich. Thesu conditions exist in our own cities, our own communi­ties and. quite possibly, on our own campus. As socially con­scious Catholics, we must strive 
'' 

to ensure justice f'or all mem­
bers of our society by demon­
strating responsible con­
sumerism, ethical business 
practices and rnspecling the 
workers in our economy. 
I write to you from Detroit. where Ijoin thousands of working mnn and womnn to take part in a festival celebrat­ing the most important social movement in America, the Labor Movement. As I ref1ect on what lhe Movement means to my life. I come lo realize that without my mother and fathor's union contracts, attending · Notre Dame would have been financially out of the question. 
On this Labor Day, 1ask you to reflect upon the inequities in our own nation, but also to remember those who have been exploited due to the inad­equacies of Notre Dame's Licensing Code of Conduct. We ought to remember the words of Pope John Paul !I, "The experience of history teaches us that organizations of this type are an indispensable e!e­menfof social life, especially in modern industrialized soci­eties." 
If in improving our University's Code of Conduct our .genuine interest is in fact the exploited worker, then we must do our utmost to guaran­tee workers the fundamental right of good faith collective bargaining. Who knows better than the workers themselves what constitutes a living wage and what improvements or safeguards in that sweatshop are needed? Unless we empow­er these workers with this right, our actions are merely selfish and face-saving. 
As you sit in class today, per­haps wearing "tlrn shirt" or sporting your new Adidas, think for one monrnnt what the worker may have endured for your benefit. As Catholic entre­preneurs, leaders, students. Bducators and workers, we must make economic decisions keeping in mind human life and dignity. 
Julie Hodek 
Farley I !all Junior Governrnenr .ind Incemarional Srndie< September 6, 1999 
In tlw ganrn ol' football, the lazy-boy rndirrnr invokes su1wrior hindsight and matu­rity. With nachos and a six­pack close at hand, thn critic ('Ulmly i:alls the 
Bob Kerr
plays, takns tlw 
hits and 
wins Lhe 
Guest Column 
big ganws. 
On Salurday in Ann Arbor. Bobby Brown and .larious Jackson conrwctnd f'or a Lwo­poinl convnrsion that gavn Lhe Irish a lhrne-point l<ia<l ovPr Michigan with 4:08 lnft in Urn fourth quarter. Brown's "1ixc1issiv<' celebra­tion" following tlw play rns111l11d i.11 a 15-yard penalty on the <•nsuing kickoff. From their 42-yard line, Michigan rnspo11d11d with a game-win­ning drive. 
C,tll Brown a "hot dog." dwell on his "cnrnlnssncss" and giw a lnnglhy disserta­tion 011 Llw 111ag11illHle of' his mislakll. Call him immature and stupid. cry about another wasted snason. llav11 anollrnr beer. and llwn lradn your s1mso11 tickets for front row at the Backstrnol Boys. 
Do not blame Bobby Brown /\dmire his athleticism, applaud his ability to read the del'ensn. Acknowledge the righteousness of his pride and understand his emotion. Consider his gesture a mod· esl wink of the eye, a slight nod of lhe head toward col· legn football's largest crowd. 
Did he make a mistake'! Vos. Ilownver, he dnlines maturity and sportsmanship in his responsfl lo criticism: 'Tm not going to make oxcus· es for a mistake." 
Is Bobby Brown responsible for losing tlrn game? No. The NCAA rule concerning "nxcossivn cclcbralion" is designed lo promote sports­manship. Positive emotion is loo often mistaken for unsportsmanlike conduct, and, as officials proved to a rocord crnwd, interpretation of the rule can be as sponta­mrnus as tho emotional <lis­play itself. 
Co!lege footl.ndl is a colorful gamn blessed with colorful individuals. The NC:J\A must rnde!inc "excessive 1.:nlobra­lion" and consistP.ntly enforcP. it's decision. Until then, the rnforne is always right. 
Before the Monday morning quarterback had time to put down tho remote control and point a finger, Rob Davin 
issued an open invitation for the critics: 'Tm not blaming 
Bobby Brown. I'm blaming myself." 
As the coach, Davie faces the ditlicult task of encourag­ing energetic play while defining the limits of expres· sion. "I don't care if (the cele­bration call) was even close -we can't have that." Bob Davie knows the rules, and it is his responsibility lo foresee and avoid the "close calls." 
In hindsight, zero tolerance of any gesture should have been a team policy. In hind· sight, Brown should have crawled back to the bench with his head down and his tail between his legs, begging Wolv,~rine fans for forgive­ness. But when the Irish took the lead in the Big House, when Brown brought a crowd of 111, 523 to climax, hind­sight was impossible. 
No individual lost the game because the team played with heart. The team represented itsC'lf and our studrmt body with due pride. 
Bob Kerr is a senior English major. His e-mail address i,,; kerr. lO@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily 

H 
H 
O
THE page 12 BSERVER Monday, September 6, 1999 


MARY CALASHfThe Observer 

Footcare is crucial to comfortability. Unfortunately, foot disease runs amuck pretty much everywhere. 
That old foot fungus feeling 
From walking to running to kicking people, feet are important body parts. But sometimes, disease-infested shower stalls get in the way 
By KATE WALTER 
Scene Writer 
The point of taking a shower is lo get clean, right'' 
People use soap, shampoo, foamy fruit-scented body washes and loofah -scrubs thinking th~y arc washing off all of those icky germs. What probably is not thought about is that by just step­ping into the shower, the body cuuld be picking up all sorts of yucky, problem­causing fungi that will cause very unhappy feel. 
1\"o matter how cir.an a shower may seem to be, it's probably not as dean as it should be. Taking a shower without. wearing flip-f"lops or shower shoes leaves poor feet vulnerable to diseases like athlete·~ Coot. plantar warts and foot fungus, any of whi_ch would dcfi­uU.ely forcfl a person to choose snow hoots over open-toed sandals. 
athlete's fool, also called tinea pedis, is the most common prohlflm that can be picked up in a public shower or lock­er room. athlew·s foot is also a very common problem herf' at Notl'e Dame, according Lo inpatient nurse Sally Smous. athlete's foot causes all sorts of' side-effects, including itching, cracking, burning and inflammation. 
ThE' disease is caused by a fungus that prefers moist. warm skin. The hot and wet environment between the toes is a perfect breeding ground for the fungus. athlete's foot is mildly conta­gious, which means that if a person walks barefoot into a showPr previously used by someone with athlete'_s foot, that person could easily walk out with ath.letc's foot. 
Once a victim gets athlete's foot, n·e or she could technically have it forever. The rash might seem to rlisappear, but really the fungus could just be hiding. waiting to strike again when IPast expected. 
athlete's foot can, however, be con­trolled. Them are antifungal liquids. creams and ointments that can be bought at any tlru){store that will cure most cases of' athlet0's foot. Some cases, though, are more severe and require /l!J antifungal merlir-ation calfod griseofulvin, which is taken orally. Some people also believe that more nat­ural treatmPnts can cure athlete's foot just as well. Certain herbs, including tea tree oil and garlic, are known to have fungus controlling abilities. 
If' experimenting with any of these treatments is undesired, there are sev­eral important ways to avoid ever get­ting athlete's foot. 
. 
\'Vear waterproof sandals or shoes around public pools, showers and lock­er rooms. 

. 
WP,ar wf'll-ventilat(id shoes with ventilation holes to keep feet dry. (Remember that the fungus that causes athlete's foot loves warm moist areas.) 

. 
Do not wear shoes made of syn­thetic materials such as vinvl or rubhor. 

. 
Alternate shoes, · 

. 
Change wet shoos imnrndiately. 



. 
Do not store shoes in plastic: wtwn you'rn not wearing them. 

. 
Wear cotton socks that keeµ away moisture. 

. Change damp ::;ot:ks. 

. 
IJo not wear nylons because they don't allow for evaporation. 


Even if lucky enough to avoid getting athlete's foot, there arp still sev!'ral other reasons noi. to step into a shower with bare feet. One mason is to avoid getting warts. 
Plantar warts, also known as Verruea 
Vulgaris, arc benign tumors caused by a virus in the ouwr skin layor. They too arc mildly contagious, which means that the virus that causes Plantar warts could be waiting to infect other foot in one of many show<ffs throughout any college campus. 
Plantar warts aro caused by the papilloma virus, which stimulates some <·oils to grow more rapidly than normal. They can begin as small as one millinw­ter, but can grow to be much larg11r. They have a rough surface and dearly dnfined borders. Whil11 most warts am painlfiss and do not itch, they am also rather difficult to got rid of'. /\lso, thr romoval process can bn µainf"ul. 
01rn way to get rid of warts in callPd cryotheropy, which involves freezing cells to destroy them. This process usu­ally requires two to live weekly office visits, and can be painful. Anothnr process is kn own as nlnctrosurgery. which usos heat to destroy cells. Electrosuq{ery can usually be complet­ed in omi office visit, hut the !waling Lime is much longer than with cryothcrepy. and there is a grnater pos­sibility of' scarring. Other treatment possibilities include chemicals, such as 

O
THE Mo11tby, Scpremher 6, 1999 BSERVER Notre Dame ar Michigan 
Victory slips away in Ann Arbor 
• Costly late penalties lead to Irish defeat 
By BILI IIART 
\\-,11 1,ltl" '\purr~ hlito1 
:\NN 1\HBOll, i\llCII. 
Ill s111111' friotllall ga1111•s, 1111' dil'f'n­l'IH'f' hf'l\\'1'1'11 virtorv and dl'i'P.il 1:a11 IJ1• 1111•as111·Pd in as littli; as 1111,. sp1•11111I. 
In 111,, ("HSI' or lhl\ lrntlll· ill i\1111 .\rl,r,r. '\lich .. lll'tWl'l'll No. l (, NotrP P.11111• ,111d No. 7 Mic-higHil. that gap ltmwd 1n1l 111 lw four s1,r1J1Hls. 
With a tm1d1dmrn ilv tlw l!onw tPalll 
\\ ilh ll'ss than two mi;HJ!t's n•11wi11i11g, 
a dramatir ol'l'P11si\l' driw li•II short ,is 
1111• Irish lost lo 1111' WolvPritl!'S. ;Y,-22. 
"I giv1· '.\lirhiga11 a lot Di' n1·dit." Notr1• l>allll' l11•ud 1·eHtl'li Boh Davit• said. "Tiwy ra1111• had. and nrnd" plays, 1111ut.· ~om,· plays to win tlw g:.inw. and I th1111gll1 m· playPrl hard. But wlwn vou lttrn tile• hall ll\'l'r thn•P 1.illll'S. ~w1'n• going to hav1• a hard 1i11w win­11i11g." 
.\ft1•r foiling to srnn• l•ll' most. ol" !111· ..,1·r1111t! lrn!L ,1 20-y,tnl pass by quart.Pr­h,11·k l.iri1111s .l,u·kso11 to a widP Ofll'll 
laliari llolloway put tlw Irish in lhl' 
l1•ad !'or th1• lirsl ti1111' sirn·,, l'arly in tlH· 
third quarlf'r. 
lllf'II, ilflf'I' a SlllTl'Ssrul lwo-poinl rn11\·1•rsion pass gaw tlw Irish a 22-1 'J IP11d witli 4:08 n•maining, sPnior split 1'111! l\obhy llrnw11 was JH•naliz1•d l'or Pxr1•ssiv1• 1•111! /0111• cPIPhration. 
\\'c,/v1•rit11• tailback .\11!/rnny Thomas 1111·11 to11k tlw 1•nsuing kiC'.koff 20 yards to tlw \1i1·higa11 -1-2. Michigan quartPr­haf'k Tom Brady l'f'l'f'ivf'd anollwr girt 1"1·11111 thf' Irish. in tlw liirm of' a I :i-yard pl'11,1lt,v 1'11r a hil 1111L-ol"-ho1111ds by saf1•­ty 1!011 lsra1•! 011 a I :i-yard n•rPplion by tight PIHi Shawn Thompson. 
:\ 20-yarcl rnmpll'lt• pass. this linw to split PIHi llavid Tt'tTt1 ll. brought tlw \\'edv1•ri1ws lo tilt' Irish S-yard !inn. Thn·1· plays latN. Thomas stumhlPd in for a tmwhdown from tilt' Irish I-yard lint•. • 
'"You know, that's what a ddt•nsiw 1111il 1lrl'fu11s o!'." Irish d1•!'Pnsiv1• coordi­nator Cn•g Malliso11 said. "I laving a d1a11t·1• Lo win IIH' ball ganH·. Our kids pla.vPd hard. and you've\ got LO givf' tlwm nf'dil ror tlw way tlwy hattil'd. WP just. gol Lo gPL tlws,i lhi11gs squanHI away t.hal \Vl'nt wrong, (:1111w back and !-(Pl tlw nPxt 0111~." 
'i\"itli I::{8 rnmaining in thn ganw and 011 tllf•ir own 2(1-vard linP, Notrl' llanw nate some mistakes." ball at the Michigan 41-yard line with win, and that's the bottom lirn1."
quirkly movPd it~ way up tlw linlcl in a In the l'irst half, after gtv111g up six 3:20 !ell in the half. Fisher kept up his performancn consis­last-ditch pffort to win Llw ganw. 
points in tho first quartnr off of two liold After a third-down conversion by tent from a week ago, lnading tlw IrishWith complPtions to flankPr Haki goals. tlw Irish finally managed Lo string Jackson to the 29-yard line, followed by a ground attack with 12 carri1is !"or 7:iNP Ison ol" :ir, and I :i vards, .Jackson 
together enough plays to put them in a pass interference call for another first yards and taking to the air with twomovl'd llw Irish to thP \,\olvPrinP 21-yard first-and-goal situation on tho Michigan down, Jackson weaved his way in from rncl'ptions for 51 yards. llolloway alsolirw with :i I spc•onds IPl't ln play. Thr!'P 
S-yard lirw. 12 yards out to score with 57 seconds left had 51 yards on three possnssions. whilPplays latn. aft.Pr !wing sackl'd for a I 0­Al'tt!r runs by fullback Jony (;oodspeed in the half. Nelson Ind the Irish air oflimsivn with 91vanl loss liv lindrnrkl'r Dlrnni JoJH\S, lw and Jackson failed to scorn. a pnr!'ectly ".Jarious played his butt off," Davi(,) said. yards on five rocnptions.
;.r,mplPll'{j annthn 20-yard pnss t.o 
1ixnculnd roversn snnt l'lankor .loov "Did .larious play smart all the time? No. "This was a def'nnsivn battln," FislwrN!'lsn11 with !"our s1't:01,rls rmnaining. Tlw (~r\Llll'rall to the nncf ZOil(' lo givn tho visr­But I lik,~ his nf'fort. IICT knpt. us in tho said. "Wt\ had confic!tmcn in our d!'l\•ns<',
11Hkials did not ordPr a m1•asurP1111111t or 
lors their first lt)ad ol' the gunw with gunw, and I thought he played well." and they stq1p1)d up und nnu!P soml'ri lirsl down. l'offi ng t lw visitors. wilh no 
I 4:!J9 ltif't in the snrnnd quarl1ff. /\part from a fourth-quarter int11rcep­plays. Th Py gavn il llrnir al I.
lim,•m1ls Id'!.. lo watrh lh1· final s1iconds The Wolv1:rines struck again with a :n­tion and four sacks, Jackson turned in Unfortunately, wn wcmm't ahlt\ to drivPti1·k 1111' till' l'ltwk. 
yard !kid goal 1111 tltu unxt possession. another carmir porformance, going 18-tlw ball."
"It's obvious W<' haVf' <'nough tait'nt on and look,\d to score again wlwn th(' Irish for-29 wit.h 302 passing yards. . Thomas providPd all of Mil'higan·sthis li1lllhall ll'alll." Davi" said. "It's ohvi­olfonse stallt\d aft1•r a 40-yard option run "I was a lot happier by my perror­ground attack with 32 rarriPs ror I:rnot1s WI' hm·1• 1•nrn1gh hPart. II' w1• play us by tailtml'k Tony Fislwr. But poor starting rnance," Jackson said. "The thing about it yards, whiln tho duo of Tnrrnll andhard as WP playPd. ii' W<' rnnlinw• lo g'l'L field position at tlrnir own 12-yard line. is. wr didn't win. That's the general side Marcus Knight providnd tlw air powPr!JPtlPr. wl''II win our sliarP of football followed by a fumble. a sack, and a lacklt1 of it. I could earn less about the three with 11 :i and 7:{ rncniving yards. n•s1wc­g:111ll's. Bui right now. wr•vf' got lo 1!limi­
for a loss of 11ight yards, gaVP Uw Irish Urn interceptions !against Kansas]. We didn't tivcly. 


quote of the -game
player of the game 
stat of the game
"/ saw two goodfoothall teams 
Anthony Thomas 
18-29-.02

battling, and one team didn't play
The "A-Train" rumbled for 138 
Jarious Jackson ·s passing
smart, and that team didn't win" 
yards on 32 carrirs. The junior 
staslics. Jackson increased 
tailback also scored two 
his career high for passing 
touchdowns. including the 
Bob Davie 
yards in a game by more 
game-winner. 
than 50 yards.

Irish head coach 
----:;;;,--~---..,,,..---------.,..,-------=,,,,.-,.--____,_____________,,,......,.=,_--~--.-:;;;--------------·------~----­
page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Monday, Seprember 6, 1999 

report card 
quarterbacks: Jackson had a career
B+ 
day and directed lhe offense well. 
Jlis pitches, howcl'er, were eratic 
and his fourth quarter interception 
killPd ri'dric•e 
B+ 
running backs: Fisher racker/ up 126 yards oftotal r!/Jense, bur bolh he and !)riverJimzhlPd. 
A 
receivers: Nelson caught every hall 
throu,n his way. Jlunler and Givens 
also had big games. Holloway is hernming a big target jiJr Jackson. 
offensive line: Jackson was sackPd
C+ 
four lime,,; and the snaps in lhe 
shotyun were oJT-targel many times. 
8-
defensive line: The lri8h got uery little pass rush in the third quarter but played strong in the.fourth quarter 
and around the goal line. 
B 
linebackers: Denman, JJoiman and Nicks all had quiet games. None o/ them got beat, but none made any 
big pla!fs either. 
C 
defensive backs: Brady torched the secondary for 1 97 yards. Terrell killed Notre Dame with 1 r 5 yards of 
receiuing. 
special learns: Sanson placed all hisB+ kickoffs except the last one in the end zone. Kick couerage was also good. Getherall almost broke a return for a touchdown. 
coaching: The team played immature­C ly and made many stupid penalties. Mental mistakes are the coach's responsibility. 
2.88 
overall: The Irish played poorly but still had a chance to win. Ifwe graded the offi­cials, they would get an f: 
adding up the nulllbers 
total Irish penalty yards 
81 
3 
Irish turnovers 
Bob Davie's road-opener 11ictiories 
0 
attendance -an NCAA
111,523 
record 
the next year the Irish and Wolverines 
2002
will meet 
96 
Irish rushing yards -the least by Notre Dame since a 35-17 
win over Stanford in 1998 
yards passing by Jarious Jackson, a 
302
career best 
1 
yard short of a first down on the final play of the game 
IRISH INSIGHT 

ANN AHBOH. Mich. Did anyone sec the football game on Saturdav'? Of course' you did. Stupid question, 
huh? 
Well, I've got a few better ones. Did you see Bobby Brown illegally 
celebrate? I didn't. 
Did anyone see Michigan tailback Anthony Thomas cross the goal line on third-and-goal? 

Not I. Brian Kessler 
Did you see Raki Nelson pick up the first down on the Sports Editor final play of the game? 1did. 
The Irish went into the Big House Saturday and were robbed. 
The crucial moments played out this way: 
With 4:08 left to play: Following the two-point conversion, in which Jarious Jackson found a sliding Brown in the corner of the end zone, Brown stood up and raised both hands to his helmet -reminiscent of Shaquille O'Neal after a monster dunk. The flag new out of the refer­ees pocket and Brown was called for the celebration penalty. 
The rule book prohibits a player from turning to face the crowd after scoring, but let me pose a question. Which way is not facing the crowd? Last time I checked, the crowd sur­rounds the field. Brown simply stood up and happened to be !'acing the crowd when he made his little ges­turn. I-le didn't turn. All Im did was raise his hands. 
"it was just something pArsonal." Brown said. "I thought because I did it quick, he [the officiall wouldn't see it. It was purn exritenrnnt. l'v<' been around here too long for the coaches to question me about being a hot dog." 
Davie wouldn't take a stance on the penalty, but he did take the blame. 
"This was a!! about coaching," Davie said. "[I told himl that it won't happen again. That's all I have to say lo him. I don't even know ifit was close. I didn't sec it Ijust know that in that situation, you can't have that and win. We talk about self-inflicted mistakes all the time. I don·, blame Bobby, I blame myself." 
With 1:43 left to play: On second­and-goal, Anthony Thomas takes the pitch from Tom Brady and is tripped up by Deveron Harper. Thomas' knee touches down at the 3-yard line, before he lunges into the end zone. Somehow the line judge spots the ball on the 1-yard line. The Irish then are forced to use a timeout to stop the clock. 
With 1 :38 left to play: Brady gives the ball to Thomas, who is stopped inches short of the goal line by Anthony Denman. The line judge rules the play a touchdown and the Irish defense is shocked. If Thomas is ruled down, Michigan faces fourth­and-goal from the 1-yard line and probably would elect to kick a field goal to tie. 
Davie, once again, won't take a stance on the call. 
"That was hard for me to tell," he said. "I wasn't sure he didn't score. Just from where I stood. It was close. Those calls all balance out in the end of the thing. I've got no opinion." 
final seconds of the game: On third­and-20 from the 31-yard line, Jackson finds Nelson open over the middle. He catches the ball and extends the ball to the 11-yard line, before getting knocked back a few yards. 
The line judge never spots the ball and time runs out on the Irish. Nelson's catch at least warranted a mnasurement. 
"I don't know if it was confusion." offensive coordinator Kiwin Rogers said. "I would lik<i to know if' we made the first down or not. I muldn 't tell." 
Davie, also, still won't comment. 
"That was disappointing," he said. "There was some confusion over whether that was a first down. We made a mistake there. We should have got that ball to the stakes." 
The Michigan jumbo-tron made these calls all the more evident as they were replayed throughout the stadium. The ollicials missed all four of these and a l'ew others during tlw day, which seem to have cost the Irish the game. 
The reasons? One possibility: Big Ten officials. The more likely possi­bility: horrible officiating. 
And then there's the voters in the poll. Notre Dame enters the game ranked 18th in the ESPNflJSA Today coaches poll, while Michigan ranks seventh. The Irish, a scwAn-point underdog, lost by just four after nearly beating the Wolverines on the road in front of 111,523 hostile fans in the Big House. The gap in the polls, however, widens as Michigan moves up to five while Notre Dame falls to 21. 
Where's the justice? 



---------------..-•c--••"1£3"'4-.,5...---........,.,,•-t~. -==,_..,,....,__,..,._~---~ 
Monday, September 6, I999 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Mistakes cost Irish chance at upset bid 
By HRIAN_ KESSLER 
'ip1>n, Fdi1or 
\NN AHBOH, '\lich. 1'111• lrisli shot lhl'lllSPIVl'S i11 1lw l'oot Saturday. 
C:11stlv IIIJ'llOV('l"S, llllll!'Cf'S­sary pi:naltiPs and poor dork 111anag,·mP11t rPstilt1•d in a dis­.ippui11ting 2h-22 loss lo llw \\'11lvPri11Ps al Mi<:liigan Stadium. 

"I kiww wha1 till· ,~1110Lio11 would llf' i11 tilf• football stadi­um Willi 111,000 (ll'llJJ!1•," h.-ad l'oarh !lob l>avil' said. "That was a hard ga1111• It was a li11ttl<-. s11 yPs. I saw t.wo good 1'11011Jull. Ll'i!lllS hall ling. and Ollf' lPa111 didn't play 1•.xlr,·m1·ly smari. and 11ml l1•1u11 did1i'l win." 
TIH• lrisil c·ougtu•cl up tlw hall !'our ti11ws and lost it twirP. ()11ar!Prhnrk .Jarious .lal'kson also ov(•rthr,•w Dan 0·1..,ary rPs11lti111-; in a f'ourlh quartPr i11lPrrPplio11 by Mid1ig.i11's Tommy lkndril'ks. 
"WP didn't play smart... l>a1·il' sairl. "WhPll you turn 1111• hall 11v1•r thrl'~' tim<•s, you'ri• going to l111\1' a hard 1.irn" winning.'' 
.Ji1rkso11 also had a diffinilt tillll' pilrhi11g th1• hall. as \1il'lti).{a11·s pursuit playPd ha vor n 11 Ilw Iris 11 opt io 11 al1a1·k. 
"I tllll11ghl .Jarious playnd his IH•arl c1ut." Davi1• said. ",\11yhody who watrlwcl that gam1• and l'on1sPd 011 tliosP had pitrlws and that i11tPrrPp­JEFF HSUfThe Observer tio11 probably hasn't l11•P11 in Notre Dame cornerback Clifford Jefferson's tight coverage on Marquise Walker results in an incomplete pass. Jefferson was tha1 situation thPrnSl'IVl'S. treated for heat exhaustion throughout the game . .Jarious playPd his bull off. 

"!)id Jarious play smart alt ran a roule behind it, but the the ball to the Michigan 42-minute, 48 seconds left to was a first down. We made a 
tltl' li11w·, No," Davil' contin­
thing is I should have thrown yard line on the ensuing kick­play. mistake thorc. We should have 
w•d. "\-\'lwn .Jarior1s thrnw thal 
it away," Jarksnn said. "They off'. The Wolverines took "We made some stupid mis­gotten the ball to the stakes." 
i11tPIT('!}tion, hP'II lw ttw first 
canrn up 011 me quick and we advantage of the short field takes like hitting guys when All things considr,red. the 
to tPII you lhP ball slipp!'fl a 
wasted five or six seconds by and safety Hon Israel's late they were already out or Irish battled and kept them­
littlt-IJil. But I likP his pfTort. 
taking the sack." hit. bounds and a couple of other selves in the ganrn whnn it
Ill' kr•pl us in tlH' ganw and I 
Two 15-yard pnnaltics also "We had the celebration foolish things which allowed was nr,eded. If the Irish had 
thought lw playNI wPII." 
plagtwd the Irish late in the penalty at the end. and then them to drive down the field," just eliminated a few of their .larkso11 had a 1·arePr-ganw game. have the late hit. you're not Jackson said. costly errors, they may have 
throwing thl' ball. Ill' rnmpl<'I.· 
Bobby Brown had a contro­going to win," the head coach The sack by Jones and Noti-e been able to change the out­
t'd I H-of-2lJ passns for ]02 
versial celnbration penalty fol­said. "I take responsibility for Dame's inability to reach the come of the game.
yards, hul also was sack1\d 
lowing the Irish's 2-point con­it... lirst-down marker on the final "It's obvious we have
four tinws. including tmcP in 
version which put them ahead Israel was penalized 15 play of the game sealed the enough talent on this team,"
llw l'inal minute of play. dash­
22-1 <J. yards for a personal foul after fate for the Irish. Jackson Davie said. "It's obvious we 
ing Irish hopps of a conwbark. 
"You can't expect to come tackling Shawn Thompson completed a pass to Raki have enough heart on this Mirhigan's Dhani .Jones 
up IHire and beat Michigan once he had already stepped Nelson for a 19-yard gain, but team. I thought it was a great
brought down .Jackson for a with silly mistakes like that." out of bounds. the Irish didn't get a favorable football game. We made some
I0-yard luss whid1 kPpt tlw 
Davie said . "I don't b I am e This mistake proved costly, spot and time expired. mistakes that didn't allow us dock ticking 
Bobby Brown. I blame as Michigan drove clown the "That was disappointing," to havc a chance to win the 
"I saw IIH• wholP tinw thny mysdf'." field and eventually scored on Davie said. "There was some game. but I give Michigan
brought tlw f'rpp safrly blitz 
Anthony Thomas returned Thomas' 1-yard run with 1 confusion over whether that credit." 
f'rom ltw WPak sidt> and wn 
How the AP Top 25 fared scoring summary & stats ESPN/USA Today poll 
No nc>w ,\P Polf is released this rl'eek due 
scoring 1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total 
to games scheduled for today Notre !Jame 0 14 0 8 22 6 3 10 1 26
team record Michigan 
1 Florida St. did not play 2 Penn St. beat Akron, 70-24 learn statistics Nn UM 3 Tennessee beat Wyoming, 42-17 20 21
.first downs 
4 Florida beat W. Michigan, 55-26 
rushes-yards 38-96 37-124 
5 Nebraska beat Iowa, 42-7 
passing-yard:; 302 237
6 TexasA&M beat Louisiana Tech, 37-17 
aomp-all-inl 18-29-1 20-32-0
7 Michigan beat Notre Dame, 26-22 
rel/Im yard.<: 10 22
8 Miami beat Florida A&M. 57-3 9 Wisconsin beat Murray St., 49-10 p1mts-arwraqe 4-38.3 3-48.3 10 Georgia Tech beat Navy, 49-114 fumhles-lost 4-2 1-0 11 Vlrglnia Tech beat James Madison, 47-0 penallit•s-yards 111-81 4-29 12 Georgia beat Utah SI., 38-7 lime r!f'poSSl'SSiOII 
29:15 30:45 
13 Ohio Stale did not play 14 Colorado lost to Colorado St., 41-14 individual slatislics 15 Arizona beat TCU, 35-31 
passing
16 NOTRE DAME lost to Michigan, 26-22 N/J -Jackson 18-29-1-30217 UCLA heal Boise SI., 3S-7 
!'v/ir!ii_qn11 -Brady 17-24-0-197, Henson 3-8-0-40
18 Arkansas beat SMU. 26-0 
rushinq
19 Kansas St. did not play 20 Alabama beal Vandorblll, 28-17 N!J Fisher 12-75, Driver 3-10, Goodspeed 2-5, Givens 1-5, 21 USC beat Hawaii, 62-7 Getherall 1-4. Lopienski 2-3. Jackson 15-(-1), Nelson1-(-4) 22 Purdue beat Central Florida. 47-13 Mid1i9a11 -Thomas 32-138. Cross1-(-2).Henson3-(-5). Brady 23 Virginia heal North Carolina, 20-17 1-(-7) 24 NC State beat south Carolina, 10-0 
receiriing
25 Arizona St. at Texas Tech (todayj NJ) -Nelson 5-91, Holloway 3-51, Hunler 3-46. Getherall 3-29. Fisher 2-51. Givens 2-34 Michigan -Terrell 8-115, Knight 4-73, Shea 4-19, Thompson 2-24, Walker 1-6, Thomas 1-0 
scoring team record points 
summary 1 Florida SI. 1-0 1,433 1st 2 Penn SI. 2-0 1,406 l/,\f -8:39 3 Tennessee 1-0 1,385 FG Del Verne. 4 Florida 1-0 1,223 
21 yds.. 3-0 
5 Michigan 1-0 1,207
!I.II -2:32 
FG Del Verne 6 Nebraska 1-0 1,203 
35 yds., 6-0 7 Te,:as A&M 1-0 1,109 2nd 8 Wisconsin 1-0 1,038 NII -14:09 9 Miami, Fla. 2-0 1,002 
Gelherall 4·Yd. run 
10 Georgia Tech 1-0 962 
Sanson kick. 7-6 l!M -8:04 
11 Virginia Tech 1-0 830 
FG Oel Verne 12 Georgia 1-0 807 37 yds. 9-6 
13 UCLA 1-D 672 ...... 
NJJ -;61 
14 Ohio SI. 0-1 5g1
Jackson 12-yd. run 15 Arizona M 491 Sanson kick, 14-9 
16 Purdue 1-0 464 
3rd 
17 Arkansas 1-0 434 
//.\/ -11:52 
18 Kansas St. 0-0 412 
Thomas 2-yd. run 
19 Virginia 1-0 374
Del Verne kick, 16-9 20 USC 1-0 333 /1.\/ -2:41 
21 NOTRE DAME M 307 
...

FG Del Verne 
22 Alabama 1-0 305
27 yds., 19-14 23 Texas 1-1 250
4lh 
24 NC Slate 2-0 175
.V/J -4:06 
Holloway pass 25 Arizona SI. 0-0 133 from Jackson 
19 yds. 
Brown pass trom other teams receivin_q 11otes: Colorado St. Jackson. 22-19 118, Marshall 94, Syracuse 75, Mississippi St. 36, Air 
1/,11 -1:38 
Fore~ 19, Miami, Oh 19. Colorado 18, So. Mississippi
Thomas 1-yd. run 
Del Verne kick, 16, West Virginia 15, Texas Tech 13, TCU 11 
26-22 
_ 

O
THE 
Norre Dame ar Michigan BSERVER Monday, September 6, 1999 

JEFF HSUfThe Observer 

Irish tight end Jabari Holloway scores the go-ahead touchdown for the Irish with 4:08 remaining in the game. The Irish lead did not hold up for long as the Wolverines marched down the field to score the winning touchdown less than three minutes later. 
Emotional Rollercoaster 
From the dizzing heights of a fourth-quarter lead in the Big House to the gut-wrenching lows of a victory snatched away by controversial calls, the Notre Dame football team experienced the full gauntlet of emotions in the 1999 edition of the Notre Dame-Michigan rivalry. The 26-22 victory by the Wolverwines will go down as one of the best and most hotly debated games of th11 series. The game provided plenty of excitement for fans across the country. Unfortunately, this intense war will not be waged again until 2002. 
-




H H 
Monday, September 6, 1999 page 13
O
TIIE 
BSERVER 
mild salicylif add, that should !w applic•d twi<'.I' a clay for four to six wi•Pks. 
So11wli11ws. hov•,1•v1•r. it is not rwcns­sa ry to lrnvP any trnatnwnt. Twnnty jlf'l'C'l'Jll nl' all warts disap1war by thnm­st>lVl'S withiu om· 11w11tl1. Evmi wit.lrnuL tn•at111P11t. lh!' majority or warts disap­lH'ar in 2 to :\ y1'ars. 
II' having wans hurn1•d or-l'ro1.nn off is l'right1>11in).{. or if applying 11dd to mw's l'PP! is no l an P11joyahln Lask, l'ollow tlws!• sirnplt• rult>s: Don't touch warts on ollll'r pPop!I'; don't Wl'ar othPr JWO­pll''s slH11•s: and always wear appropri­1111• 1'11otw1•ar iu pulili1· locker rooms or sliowPrs. 
:\ third possibln problnm that onP might 1\11rn1111t1•r if' wlwn forgetting to prolPl'l fn1•1 in public lockPr f0l)I11S l)I' show1•rs is foot fungus. Sonworw with fool fungus will 1>x1wrin111·n dry. itchy i'Pt'I or whit!' l1•sio11s. 
Foot ftmgu'.'> nu, lw takPn rarf' ol' with a11tifu11gal puwdPl'S or (T(1ams, or a d11rL11r c1111 prt's<-rilw a slrongl'r trt•at­llH'IH. Fool fungus. lik!• athl!'t<''s fool and planlar warts, can lw avoidncl by ,·ovl'ring !IIP foot ar1•a lwl'11r1• taking a .,ho\\'1•r. 
TIH•r!' an· also prolil1·ms llrnl 111H' might "run" into t'V!'ll outside l111• dan-• gt•r11us ar1•as of pulJlit-loclwr rooms and shO\\'Prs. Corns and c,tllus<)S could d1•vl'iop <1111• to t.hl' way· that yl)u walk l)I' impropc·rly littml shl)f'S. Tlwy rnuld also simpl_\· h1• l11'rPdit11ry. To gPL rid of l'lll"llS and i·allusPs, tlw first. thing 01w must do is g1•t ilPLl<!r lilting shol's. Orw c·a11 also soak f<·l'l i11 wat1•r, USP pumir'.P snuhs or USP a 11011-pn'srriplion typP 11l!'diri1w liki• Dr. Sdwll's salicylic arid pad-.. • 
Som!' pPop!P may also just lrnvP s\\t•al\, smPII\' f'Pf'l., whi('I, could also bP rnus,:d hy h·PrPdity. Oth1·r possible• rnusP'.'> irll'IUdP slrPss, l10r:111011al i111bal­111w1•. tight 11r syntlu•tif' shtH'S a11d nylon stol'kings. To run' swl'at_v. s11wlly l'Ptil. l"Plllf'lllit<'r to alwavs wash and dn· Lli11s1• 1'1•1•1. 1•sp1•1'i11lly-l)('f\\'C'<'ll till' lu(<. Ont• ran also llS<' tli•odorant insol<\s or soak fpf'l in 1Pa (two 1Pa bags pPr quart warm wat1•rl. 
,\ linnl foot problPm is also 01w that is V<'ry t·ommon in tlw collt>g<' sntting ­ingrown toPnaik Nursl' Smous simply stalt•d, ".'\ lot ol' stuc!Pnts !wn• just don't t'lll tlwir trn•nails prnpPr!y." 
Willi th<' PXl'<'Jllion or lwn•dily factor. all or tlw abm•p probl<'ms ca11 lw avoid­Pd quitP Pasily. Basirally. if rml. it('hy. pain!'til, IJ11rni11g. snwlly, bumpy, f'laky and inl1anwcl fop! ar1• unattractive. both visually and aurally, slip on l'lip-l'lops IH'l'ol'P walking into Llw showl'r. 

Write for Scene! 
If you are interested in writing for Scene come to our writers meeting, Thursday, September 9, 1999 at 8:30 p.m. 
We are currently looking for writers in these general areas: Soap Operas Primetime Television Book Reviews Health Community Service General Features 
AP ENTERTAINMENT BRIEFS 
Costner has no regrets about movie flops 
Nl·:WYOHK 

Aftnr hug<! hil,; like "Tlw Untouchables" and "Dances With Wolvns" gave way Lo big [lops likP "Tim Postman" and "Watnrworld," Kevin Costner knows lhat wbatev,1r he docs. he docs it in a big way. 
I le also knows that trait makes sonrn vocal critics sec him as tlw perfect mmmpln ortmirything th1iy haw about I lollywood. "I hear things," Costner says in Sunday's Daily NPws. 'Tm not immune." 
Despite his foilures, the Academy i\ward-winnnr has no mg-rnls. 
"Mayb£J l don't ser1 mysr1lf' clearly, I don't know," Costner said. "Maybe thorn's an arrogance about mo or whawvcr. But I know tht> way I forl about movim, is really pun'. 
'Tm happy about the things I've done, I'm not always happy about the results, but I'm happy about the choims l'vB made, bocausn l'v11 made them myself. I love 'Wyatt Earp,' and I rPally lovn 'Thn ­Postman,' and I loved making 'The War."' he said. rnliwring to thrr.1• box oOicc bombs. 
"I would stack my movfos uµ with anybody's movies. all tlw soquels included." · 
In his latest film, "For l.uve of the Garm\," Cost,mr returns to tlw baseball diamond, where he has succeeded with "Bull Durham" and "Field of Dreams." Tho actor who played baseball in collngc portrays a once-great pitcher trying to go out in style. 
Bacon on path to career bliss 
NEWYOHK Bombing out at the box ollicn a few times pul Kevin Bacon on tlw path to carnor bliss. 
"After getting early fanrn in 'Footloose.' I stam~cl in a seri1\s of pic­tures that failed," Bacon says in Sunday's Daily News. "So I just decid­ed that I couldn't 'open' a movie likP certain other movie stars. It was an economic fact oflifc. 
"I sat down with my wife (actress Kyra Sed1-,1,vkkl, and slw ern:mir­aged me tu take some ol'thn n~ally-4.mTific supporting roles that WPn' out tllf'w." 
What resulted was as string or nwmorabln parL-; in films including "Apollo 13," "JFK," "A Few Good l\fon" and "Tim Hivnr Wild." 
But Bacon couldn't keep the sam,i low profilp for long, diriicting tlw cable movie "Losing Chase" and coproducing "Wild Things," which lw also appeared in. Now he's starring in thn upcoming "Stir of' Echops" and a film in production. "llollow Man." 
"The minu11' you decide on a plan in this business, it'll go up in smoke," Bacon said. 
Maestro performing at MTV awards 
NEWYOHK Hobert Bass, conductor of the 100-voicn Collegiate Chorale, didn't know just how cool he was. 
When MTV asked his group to perform at the cable music channel's annual awards show this week, Bass thought it somebody's idna of a joke. 
"J did not dream my 20th anniversary season with tlw Collegiatn Chorale would be celebratnd in the presencl' of the Backstrnet Boys, 1-ticky Martin, Madonna, David Bowie, Jennifer Lopez. Lauryn I !ill, Britnfy Spears, Chris Rock and Sean 'Puffy' Combs," Bass said. ­
The chorale will do a rendition of Carl Orlfs 1937 cantata "Carmina burnna." The rapper NAS and Combs had a hit recentlv with "llatP Me Now," which is basnd on "Carmina burana," lwnc<! thn invitation to be opening act on lhe awards show at tlw l'vktropolitan OpPra 
Housn. 
"I presumP millions of' TV viPwers will think Carl Orff is a hip-hop artist and Bob Bass and t!rn Collegiati' Choral<i is a rap group," Bass said. "What a greal way to reach a new audi£'11CP!" 
The Collegiate Chorale was foundnd in l 1J4·t hy Hobtwt Shaw at tlw Marble Collegiate Church in Manhattan. 
Belgian film a hit at Italy festival 
Vt•:NICE. ltalv 

Italian critirs gavn a big thumbs-up Sunday l.o a littln film f'rom i1 virtually unknown Belgian din•ctor, calling it a ro11t1'1Hlt>r for tlw (;oldnn I.ion. tlrn Vm1icP Film Fnstival's top prizP. 
-

"A t'orno1-,fJ•aphir Liaison" got a solid IO minulrs of applausP at its premiere scroening Sawrrlay. Critics at tlw film ft>stival said it cclipsPcl another early favorite -"Holy Smokn," by Australian Ja,w Campion, dirnct.or 1l "Thn Piano." wi1ich garrnin.ld a bnst al'Ln•ss Oscar in 1993 filr [lolly ltunter. 
"A Pornographic Liaison." starring Fnm('()'s NathaliP Bayn, is a modnsl film dirnctnd by :{ I-year-old FnidPrk hllllt>y1w. 
It cnntnrs on a coup!~ who remain nanwlnss throughout tlw moviP. Thev meet once a wcnk in a hotPI to rcalizt\ a mutual (•rotir fantasv. Tlu1· mrdinnce mwer sens h1\ytmd tlw dosPrl door nl' thnir hot1•I n10111, and the prndse nalurn of't!U' fantasy 1:prnains a mystPry. 
"Holy Smoke," with "Titanic" star Kate Winsli!l, Harvey Knill'! and Pam Gri,ir, centers around a beautiful young woman who follows twr guru to India. Keitel plays a cult "doprogrammer'' who rntdws up wilh her. Italian critics profossod disappointmnnt at Campion·s eagerly awai.tnd film. on<' of 18 in competilion for thn Goldnn Lion. 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, September 6, 1999 

U.S. OPEN 
Williams advances over weather 
CLASSIFIEDS 
to use the time to receive treatment from a trainer. Fernandez returned with her upper right leg ..,,Tapped, but her movement clearly was lim­ited as she ran more slowly and played more tentatively. She managed to hold serve to 3-1, but lost the next nine games as Williams picked up her own game. 
"It was definitely related to the rain," Fernandez said. "It started to sprinkle and the court gets very, very slippery right away. My foot just slid." 
Fernandez hadn't wanted to stop at the time, but in hind­sight wished that she had said something to the umpire about halting play when the rain started to fall. 
"I should have," she said. "l didn't." 
The rain had interrupted the match earlier, with Fernandez leading the first set 5-1. 
"It was kind of the same thing," Fernandez said. "I dragged my foot a little bit on the court, saw that it was kind 
of  slick.  I  asked  and  we  
stopped.  But  once  you get  
started, you  want  to  keep  

playing. I thought maybe it's going to stop. But it was too slippery." 
As soon as Fernandez went down, Williams came around the net to see how shfl was. 
"She was cute," Fernandez said. "She calls me Mary, not Marv Joe. She's, like, 'I'm sorr·y. Mary. Are you OK, Mary?' I looked at her, like, 'Nooo, but I'll be OK.' But it was really nice of her to come and check up to make sure I was OK." 
"That was terrible," 
Williams said of Fernandez' fall. "She had a really bad injury, and she just came off of a wrist injury." 
Williams had reached the fourth round without striking a ball when another opponent, Henrieta Nagyova of Slovakia, pulled out with a wrisi injury. 
"It was difficult," Williams said. "I haven't played singles since Wednesday. All those days off and the rain really hurt. She was pinpointing her shots. 
"I was producing quite a few short balls which gave her the opportunity to look like an All­American. I looked like the last NFL pick." 
Williams said she's confident she can raise the level of her tennis in the next match. But she wishes she wouldn't have to. 
"I shouldn't be raising the level of my game," she said. "l should be playing wonderful tenni~ throughout this next week. 
In the only other women's matches completed Sunday afternoon, Ankc Huber contin­ued her comeback from injury to knock off Australian Open finalist and No. 15 seed Amelie Mauresmo 6-4, 6-4, and No. 12 Barbara Schett beat Elena Likhovtseva 6-0, 6­
1. 
Huber held double-match point at 6-4, 5-3, 15-40 on Mauresmo's serve when rain interrupted play. When they resumed, Huber made four consecutive errors to allow· Mauresmo to hold serve. Huber quickly regrouped, though, and held at love to put away the match. 
NHL 

Orlando Thrashers begin fall practice 
Associated Press 

OHLANDO, Fla. 
The scene pointed t.o any­thing but hockey: palm trees, 90-degree heat, guys showing up for work in shorts, T-shirts and sandals. 
So it began for the Atlanta Thrashers, who held their first practice Sunday in the land of Mickey Mouse. 
"When I was young, I always wanted to play some­where that was nice and hot," said goalie Norm Maracle, who played with the Dctroil Red Wings last season. "My dream has come true." 
Maracle and nearly all his teammates took advantage of training camp being in steamy central Florida, show­ing up at the sprawling RDV Sportsplex wearing attire usually reserved for a trip to the beach. 
"Instead of jeans and jack­ets and winter boots," Maracle said, grinning. "I get to wear sandals." 
But don't get the impression this is a summer vacation. The NHL's newest team had only six days of practice before its first exhibition game, Saturday night against the Nashville Predators. 
Rookie coach Curt Fraser established ground rules to keep players focused. Among his edicts: The golf course is off limits, curfew is 11 p.m. 
"I remember the looks at that first meeting when he dropped the bomb: no golf," general manager Don Waddell said. "About six guys wanted to crawl under the table because they brought their clubs." 
Instead. they'll spHnd their free Lime trying to learn the names of eYeryone else. Even Fraser found it difficult to tell his players apart as they whizzed around tlrn ice in a flurry of shooting, passing and skating drills, or when they gathered around him during brnaks. a bunch or strange faces looking to a coach they barely know !'or guidance. 
"!l's going to be tough to evaluate these guys the first couple of days," said Fraser, who used jnrsny numbers to ID tlrnm. "They look a hock or a lot dif'fernnt off the ice than they do on it." 
Fraser was l'amiliar with the 
.surroundings. having coac:lrnd the minor lnagufl Orlando Solar Bears the last !'our years, but he seemed a bit rnlinved when Day I was over. 
"I was pretty nervous about getting on the ice," he admil­t()d. "Coaches need training camp just as much as the players." 
One player managed lo 
catch tlrn coach's cyo. Hight 
wing Kelly BuchlwrgPr. the 
third-oldest player on th1\ ros­
Wr at 32, was lirst on tlw ic1• 
for the morning workout and 
never slowed down. 
Fraser has v()t to name a 
captain, but B~chberger is tlw 
ovPrwh<'lming favoritn after 
playing on thre() Stanley Cup­
winning teams in Edmonton. 

-
Associa tcd Press 
NEW YORK 
Venus Williams, as wild as the weather in a first-set fias­co, escaped an upset Sunday at the U.S. Open after Mary Joe Fernandez strained a leg muscle skidding on a slippery court. 
A rainy, blustery fringe of tropical storm Dennis delayed the start of play, interrupted everv afternoon match and caused the postponement of eight doubles matches. 
No. 1 Martina 1-Iingis and No. 10 Arantxa Sanchez-Vicario saw their day match pushed back to the night session. 1-Iingis extended her domi­nance over the Spaniard. beat­ing her for the 12th time in 13 meetings, 6-4, 7-5. to reach the quarters. 
The worst effect of the weather came from a light sprinkle that hit early in the second set of the Williams­Fernandez match and totally changed the outcome. 
Williams. seeded No. 3, reached the quarterfinals with a 2-6. 6-1. 6-0 victory that stemmed entirely from a fall by Fernandez when she slipped on a wet Spot chasing a shot hehind the baseline. 
Fernandez served superbly and broke an erratic Williams three limes in the first set but was never the same after falling in the third game of the second set and straining the quadriceps muscle in her right leg. . 
Play was suspended at that point for about an hour and a half. and Fernandez was able 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 \1.111. at the Notre Dame oHice. 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must ht prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Ohserver reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
www.PopWall.com-FUNKIFY  3-6 BDRM HOMES NEAR CAM­ NEED 2 MICHIGAN ST. TIX!!'  
LOST & FOUND  YOUR DORM ROOM.Posters.bean bags.lava lamps & more.  PUS. NOW OR 2000/2001.ROOMS ALSO 272-6306  FoR SALE  TICKETS  email: moon.6@nd.edu  
For on-campus job -call toll free  FOR SALE  
1.67 POPWALL.1  LOADED  N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS  
LOST: BAG OF MAKEUP IN  6 Bedrm '00-01 yr.  Spring B'reak SpecialslBahamas  WANTED NOTRE DAME FOOT·  CALL 271-9412  
JOYCE CENTER THE WEEK OF  Foosball players wanted.  273-0462 I 234-3831  Party Cruise 5 Days $279! Includes  BALL TICKETS  
8123. PLEASE CALL LAURIE AT  High level players desired.  Meals!  271-1526  PURDUE TIX  
247-0545.  Call D. 257-4441 evenings.  LARGE 1-bdrm apt.  Awesome  TICKETMART  
All utilities + cable. $450/mo. $250  Beaches,Nightlife!Cancun &  SELL & BUY GA FOOTBALL TICK­ 271-9330  
LOST: My Student Ticket Book· I  SOCCERZONE  dep.  Jamaica 7 Nights From $399!  ETS  
need it for obvious reasons. It is  Soccer Instructors  10 mins to ND  Florida  277-6619  I need 3 Arizona tix-Please call  
section30 row56  Part time positions of 5-10 hrs/wk.  273-3876.  $129!springbreaktravel.com  Colleen 4-2244 if you can helpI  
Please call 4·1663 lor reward!  teaching soccer classes for 3-.8 yr.  1-800-678·6386  
olds. 10am-12pm & 4pm-7pm, Mon.  3 bdrm duplex. remodeled. 503  WANTED­ I need 3 Arizona tix-Please call  
thru Thurs. Must have teaching  Eddy. one mile from campus.  ND football tix.  Colleen 4-2244 if you can help!  
WANTED  experience, basic soccer skill knowledge. Multiple positions avail- Appliances, W/0. 273-8332  NEW Prepaid Phone Cards!!!  AM · 232-2378 PM -288-2726  
able immediately. Call Dan Payne.  AVAILABLE FALL 2000  $20 ->669 minutes  Will trade 2 Mich St and 2 Anz SI  
SoccerZone  5-6 STUDENT RENTAL. ..2 1/2  Call 243-9361, ask for Rob  ND football tix for sale.  GAs for 4 GAs (grouped together)  
FREE FOOD AND FROSTY BEV­ 243-5777.  BATH;COMMON AREA ON EACH  AM -232-2378  for Ariz St.Okla. or USC.Nick 800·  
ERAGES  LEVEL AND HUGE BONUS COM­ PM · 288-2726  356-9655 x4828  
In return for a place to crash for the  Inn @ Saint Mary's seeking van dri- MON AREA. .. PARKING  
NO-USC game.  ver/house person  LOT.LAUNDRY.  FOR SALE  I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME  Need 4 Oklahoma GAs · Matt 4·  
4 '94-95 alums seeking refuge Call  Good hours & pay.Apply within.  DON'T DELAY ON THIS ONE.  N.D. FOOTBALL TIX  GAMES.2726551  1248  
Bill@ 703-469-1008.  DAVE AT 291-2209.  CALL 271-9412  
BUYING and SELLING ND FOOT- Needed: GAs to NO Home Games.  
STUDENT OPENINGS  FOR RENT  AVAILABLE FALL 2000 4-5 STUDENT RENTAL HOUSE  FOR SALE  BALL TICKETS. GREAT PRICES. CALL 289-804B  4 Oklahomas, 1 ASU, 2 uses. Will pay cash. Call Morgan at 634­ 
5-30 hrs.lweek. Flex around  SECURITY SYSTEM,CENTRAL  ND. FOOTBALL TIX  1064.  
classes.  ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE  AIR  CALL271-9412  +++++++++++++++++++++++++++  
Scholarships avail.  HOME FOR  CONDITIONING,LAUNDRY,PARK­ ++  
www. work! orstudents .com/IN 282-2357  ND-SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  ING LOT ... DAVE AT 291-2209.  Bikes for sale.Good to excellent condition.All good  N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS BUY/SELi/TRADE  PERSONAL  
243-0658.  AVAILABLE SPRING 2000  mechanically.Ready to ride!  ALL GAMES  
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED  4-5 STUDENT RENTAL HOUSE  674-0541  ALL LOCATIONS  lnteresested in jazz or classical  
The Early Childhood  B&B  SECURITY SYSTEM.CENTRAL  GREAT PRICES  piano lessons? Only $10/week  
Development Center, located at  ND FOOTBALL & GRAD.  AIR CONDITIONING.LAUNDRY,  Dining table w/4 chairs  271-9330  call Joel at 288-4517.  
Saint Mary's College and the  3 MILES TO N.D. 2B7-4545  PARKING LOT. ..  (1 yr.old). $200/obo,  !!NO STUDENT TICKETS!!  
..  University of Notre Dame, is looking for volunteers who enJ0Y young chil- HOMES CLOSE TO CAMPUS  DAVE AT 291-2209.  1989 Isuzu Trooper LS. 4 WO.  TICKETMART INC. www.ndtickets.com  This is a shout out to all my girls in the basement of Lyons!  
dren.lf you would be interested in  http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/  loaded, 105K mi. Excellent.  +++++++++++++++++++++++++++  
spending 2 hours a week  232-2595  Looking for 1 more roommate to  $4250/obo.  +++  Emily Snow, partying hardy.  
reading children's books,  move into beautiful off-campus  
building with blocks.and  THAT PRETTY PLACE,  house in Riverside historic district.  Complete twin bed. $65.  ND ALUM WILL PAY $100 APIECE  Happy 21st birthday, KATE!!!!! You  
singing songs with children,  Bed and Breakfast Inn has space  Male or female (currently 2 male, 1  FOR TENNESSEE TIX 2773097  ARE the Dancing Queen.  
please call Cindy Hestad or Amy  available for football/parent wknds.  female living there) who wants a  Call 277-3254  
Moskalick al 284-4693 (ECDC­ 5 Rooms with private baths, $80·  clean, safe house and likes good  GA FOOTBALL TICKETS  BooyaI  
SMC) or Thayer  $115, Middlebury, 30 miles from  music. N-Sync fans need not reply.  FOR SALE: New, rust colored  ALL HOME GAMES ...  
Kramer at 631-3344 (ECDC­ campus. Toll Road Exit #107, 1­ 280.00/month plus utilities. Call  chair, will deliver to campus, $50,  BEST PRICES 272-7233  
ND).Please join our fun filled days.  800-418-9487.  288-4517.  call 1-5766.  ASK FOR AL  


MonJay, September 6, 1999 
NFL 
Rams line coach seeks counseling 
A,sod~1cd Press 
ST. LOUIS 
Tlw St. Louis !tams will senk cou11s1•1in1; for offnnsive li1rn coach Jim llanif'a11. who was arrl'.stPd on drunk1:n driving 1·hargPs. 
"It br!!aks my hPart, and tha!'s alwut all I ran say." ro11rh Dil'k Vn1111\il said Sunday. "\Vp arc us an or~ani­1.alion vnry disappoinlPd in 
lirrr's condurl. I lwv!! urnt with .lirn ,111d lw is cxtrnmcly dis­traught and l\lllOlionally down." 
llanil'an, '1:i, was stoppPd alrnul :i a.111. Saturday in St. Charl1•s for a lra{fo· violation. 
llanil'an took a breath test at the police station, was charged and tlwn r1ihmsnd. 
Hanifan join<ld Lim Rams .in I<J<)7 aftnr six years of coaching tlw ofl'nnsivn line of the Washiugton lledskins. Ile was lu~ad roach of the St. Louis Cardinals f'rom 11)80-85. 
Ila11ifa11 has coaclw<l for five I\JFI. lnarns, and won a Super Bowl ring as the offensive line coach with Lim Washington ll!'Clskins in l 9<J1. 
"(In's ,l nwmunr or our fami­ly. and I care for him a lot," Vnrnwil said. "I will SN)k the lwlp I nnml to help Jim solv1J his 1~.roblem, ii' then• is a prob­lem. 
Write for Observer Sports. Call 631-4543 
The Observer . SPORTS page 15 NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Reds go deep against Phillies 
faced in three scoreless innings before Young led off the seventh with his I 0th homnr off Steve Srhrenk. 
There was only one cheap shot in the Heds' arsenal· Hammonds second home; and 15th of the year was estimated at 341 f.'net. llis first traveled 416 feet. and Vaughn's 31st homer and Young's shot. WlffC each esti­mated at 421 feel. 
Mikn Liebnrthal hit his 29th homer, a solo shot in tho eighth off Ncaglli. 
Thn Heds also sl't NL records with 15 homers in three games anti 1 7 lrnnrnrs in four games. Thoy passnd two pretty impressive LP.ams 
-

for tlrn major lcagun mark. 
In the second game of the '61 Ciants' homer binge, Willin Mays used Joev Amalfitano's bat to lwcomo the ninth µlayer to have a four-homer game in a 14-4 victory over Milwaukee. Willie McCovny, llarvey Kucnn. Jim Davenport and Felipe Alou also were on that tnam. 
Tlw '39 Yanknes did their damage~ in a doublchnacler against tlrn Philadnlphia Athletics on June 28. They hit eight ho11wrs in tlw first game, a 2:1-2 victory . .Ion DiMaggio, Bairn Dahlgren and Joe Gordon parh hit thre11 homnrs in Urn doubln­headcr. 
Less than a week latnr, on July 4. l.ou c;nhrig announcnd his rctirnment with his famous line. "I con­sider myself' thn luckiest man on tlrn face of' tlrn narth." The Yanknes wnnt on to sweep thn H1\ds for their f'ourth straight World Series title. 
Twins 4, Devil Rays 1 
Brad Badke pitthed a five­hitter and Todd Walker hit an inside-the-park homer as the Minnesota Twins beat the Tampa Bay Devil Hays. 
It was Hadke's l'ourth complete this season and 18th of his career. 
After allowing one run and two hits in tlrn first inning, Hadkc (12-12) retired 22 of' the final 24 batters he faced, including H straight at one point. !In gave up live hits, struck out six and walked none. 
Walker's homer in the 
fourth inning put the Twins 
up 2-l. The inside-the-park 
homer was the 45th in 
Twins history and Urn first 
sincn llobcrto Kelly did it on 
Aug. 8, 1997. 
Walker's drive dn!lected 
off llrn glove of Tampa Bay 
center fielder Handy Winn 
as Im tried to make a lnap­
in g catch al ttrn warning 
track. Left f'inlder Dave 
Martinez backed up the 
play. but Wnlktir easily bMt 
the relay throw lo tlw plat11. 
Byan Hupe (8-8) was tlw tough luck losnr, allowing two runs and six hits in eight innings. 
Tho victory snap1wcl the Twins· four-garn<~ losing skid. Minnnsota had also lost f'ivp straight to Tampa Bay. 
Winn landi~cl hard on lhn 

play and hif'L tlw ga111p af'tnr 
the inning with a mild right 
ankle sprain, lln is listnd as 
clay-tu-day. 
Walknr's horner was tlrn 

first insido-the-park shot 
givm1 up by Tampa Bay. 
Associated Press 
I'llIIADELPHIA 
The Big lfod Machine is back in business. The seat­denting business, t:hal is. 
The Cincinnati Heds set the major league record with 14 homers in two games, hitting five Sunday in a 9-7 win over the Philadelphia Phillies. 
Onn day artnr s<'tting the National League record with nirrn homers in a game, Urn Heds slugged five more to surpass the 1939 Yankeei:i and 1961 San Francisco Giants l'or the two-game record. 
Jpf'frey Hammonds hit two, and the lleds got one each frnm Grng Vaughn, Eddie Taubenseo and Dmitri Young. AH homered for tbe sccnnd straight day, and Tuubens(-10 has three honrnrs in lwo days. 
Quietly toiling in the midst of this historic homer derby, Denny Neagle ( 5-5) allowed two hits -both solo homers -and one walk in eight brilliant innings. lie struck out five and retired 15 straight between Rico Brogna's second-inning homer and Bobby /\breu's walk with one out in the seventh. 
Trailing 9-2, the Phillies scored five runs in the ninth off reliever Gabe Whitp on HI31 singles by Kevin .Jordan and Brogna, and a two-out, three-run homer by Torey Lovullo. But Scott Sullivan came in and retired Alex Arias on a pop to short for his third save. 
Four of the Reds' homers came off Phillies starter Hobert Pr.rson (8-4), who allowed eight runs and seven hits in three-plus innings. Cliff Politte struck out six of the 11 batter5 he 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, September 6, 1999 
WNBA NHL 
Comets capture third WNBA title 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON 
The Houston Comets' third WNRA championship was one for Kim. 
One day after playing one of her worst games, Cynthia Cooper played one of her tough­est, scoring 24 points as the Comets remained the league's only champion, beating the New York Liberty 59-47 Sunday. 
Even in the heat of the cham­pionship game, thoughts were never far from Comets guard Kim Perrot, who died Aug. 19 following a seven-month battle with cancer. 
"We said that Kim wasn·t here physically but she was definitely here in spirit," forward Sheryl Swoopes said. "She will always be a part of the Comets." 
One banner read "3 t'or 10" imploring the Cornets to win their third WNBA title for Perrot, who worn No. 10. The Comets did just that by winning the final game of the best-of-3 series. 
In the emotional final 
with her first shot Sunday and thM helped the Comet<; break it open in the second half. She fin­ished 13-of-15 from the foul line. 
"I wanted to establish that I'd he a force to be reckoned with fr~m ,!he beginning," Co~per said. It feels good, especially after all we've been through this year." 
Liberty coach Richie Adubato called Cooper the difference. 
"Both teams played good defense," Adubato said. "I thought we stopped their people and they stopped our people. The person that made the differ­ence was Cynthia Cooper." 
The Comets put on a late spurt for a 33-25 halftime lead and they expanded that to 38-27 with 15:33 left in the game, then both sides got sloppy. Houston didn't score a span of 6:50, while the Liberty missed nine straight shots at one point. 
Th~ Liberty closed the gap to 38-31 before Tina Thompson broke Houston's scoreless steak and started a 10-0 run fur a 48­31 lead with 4:28 to play. Thompson also had a jumper points. 
Comets coach Van Chancellor 
wore the same jacket and tie 
that he wore in the 1997 cham­
• pionship game and went to church before the game. "After all this team has gone through, I don't know any group of players that deserves this more," Chancellor said. "If you don't think tho spirit of Kim Perrot is not pulling this team through, you're dead wrong." The Comets won the first two WNBA championships and they were within two seconds of wrapping up a third title Saturday when a desperation 52-foot shot by Teresa Weatherspoon gave the Liberty a 68-67 victory, forcing Game 3. Swoopes and Cooper com­bined to score 20 of Houston's first 22 points. 
The Comets had a 12-2 run that helped them take a 20-11 lead with 8:16 to go in the first half and when the Liberty cut the lead to 26-25 with 2:27 to go, the Comets scored seven straight for a 33-25 halftime l.ead. 
Coyotes sign goalie Essensa to contract 
Associated Press 

SCOTTSDALE. Ariz. 
In the wake of Nikolai Khabibulin's holdout, the Phoenix Coyotes signed goal­tender Bob Essensa on Sunday. 
Essensa, an unrestricted free agent, signed a one-year deal. Contract terms were not disclosed. 
Khabibulin, a rnstrictcd free agent who earned $1.25 mil­lion in 1998, won :12 games last season to tie for fourth­best in the NHL. He reportedly is seeking a multiyear deal for up to $4 million per season. 
But the Coyotes, who claim they lost $10 million last sea­son because of ongoing prob­lems with their lease at America West Arena, seem reluctant to pay that kind of money. 
General manager Bobby 
Smith has not revealed thn club's offor to Khabibulin. who played in 205 of the Coyotes' 246 games since the team relocated from Winnipeg in 
19%. 
"We have 27 days, eight pm­season games and 12 quality practice days," said new Coyotes head coach Bob Francis. "Whoever is in net, the focus is getting that person ready." 
Before the Coyotes signed Essensa, Mikhail Shtalenkov was the only goalie they had in camp with NHL experience. 
Essensa, 33. was originally drafted by Winnipeg in 1983 and played six seasons with the Jets, winning 116 games and notching 14 shutouts. 
lie was traded to Detroit in 1994 but played only 13 games beforn being dealt to Edmonton in 1996. Essensa compiled a 22-28-7 rncord over three snasons with tlw Oilers. 


Fall Break Seininars 
October 17-22, 1999 Experiential/Service Learning 
Center for Social Concerns 
APPALACHIA SEMINAR 
Service Learning at one of 15 sites in the Appalachian region One credit Theology 
CULTURAL DIVERSITY SEMINAR 
0

-Explore the cultural richness of Chicago 
Examine issues of diversity and related concerns One-credit Theology or Sociology -Cosponsored with Multicultural Student Affairs 
WASHINGTON SEMINAR ' 
Theme: Jubilee Justice 2000-·> 
.~ 

Direct contact with political, agency, and Church leaders in Washington, D.C. -Service and political awareness opportunities 
-One-credit Theology or Government 
CHILDREN & POVERTY SEMINA~ ~ -New semmar exammmg key children s concerns -Focus on direct service and policy initiatives -Site: Boston or New York -One-credit Theology or Psychology 
Applications Available Now at the CSC 
C£NrER FOR 
SOCIAL

Applications Due: Thursday, Sept. 9, 1999 
CONCERNS 

moments. the crowd broke into and three-point play for seven of chants of "three for Kim. three the 10 points. for Kim." , Thompson had 13 points and Cooper. who was just 1-for-10 Swoopes added 11 for the from the field in Saturday's 68-Comets. Sue Wicks \Vas the onlv 67 last-second loss, equaled that Liberty in double figures with 1i 
LASALLE BOOKSTORE 
Fall Semester Sale! 
We're your ~ource for the best theological and philosophical books-we can special order any book you need! 
20% OFF ALL BOOKS 
SEPTEMBER 7-10 
LASALLE BOOKSTORE • 234-0003 • lasalle@michiana.org 237 N. Michigan St. (at LaSalle), downtown So. Bend 
Now open until 6:00 p.m. Tuesday and Thursday! 
Open 10-5 Mon/Wed/Fri, and 11-6 Tues/Thurs 
Looking for something interesting to do during Fall Break? How about spending it in DC? 
the WASHINGTON SEMINAR 
is having an 
INFORMATION NIGHT TONIGHT from 7:00-7:30 PM at the CSC the seminar's topic is 
JUBILEE JUSTICE 
Come and hear more about this great opportu­nity to learn about both the workings of the government and the Jubilee! 

Monday, September 6, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Another Manning begins college 
Tulane prepares to 
Associate<! l'ress 
OXFOlill. Miss. 
Fli Manning's transition lo rnl­lcg,~ l'oolball consists o!' morn than h\arning complnx olTnrnms and adjusting to lili• away from lionw. 
h,r the Mississippi f'rcshman, it also mnans clnaling with tlrn r.01H,ta111 r1d't>r1•11c1\S and com­pa r iso 11 s to two grP 11 l Soul.hc•astnrn Cn11!'nn!11c1: quar­t.-rl,acks -l'al.hnr Archin and nldnr hrol IH•r 1'1wto11. 
,\nd tliat Sl'f'lt;ingly daily rou­ti 11 P r11111Ps PVnll lrnforn t.111: youngPr Manning, No. '.\ 011 Uw 01.. Mis.., d1>pt.h chart, has playnd a rnll1•gi• ganw 
"l gtwss U11•r1• is prn;.sur1• ,in l!H' l"Olllillg up hPl'i' tht• SOIi or /\rl'!1if' and tilt! brothl'r of' l'n•trni. But I can't n·allv look at 111y..,"II. that way," I-Ii sni'd. "I just lrnv1• 1-;ut tn 1·011w in lwrP and lw 1111 ()fl, \1is,, quart1·rhack.•,·ork hard mid ,lll">I ll'ill'll tlw syslf'm." 
1:1i Mauning matl1• his dPhut in an OIP Miss 1111il'11r111 Sawrday night. \Vf'1tri11g !\Jo. 10 instl'ad 1;1' tlw rl'Lirt'd No. 18 worn hy his l'allu•r thrn1• dt'('.:tcl1•s ago. But lin didn't play in tlw lh-li('ls' 3-0 vii'tory at l\1!'mphis. 
"'v\'p had a good talk lll'f'on, lw \\'l'llt. up thPr1•. Wn trind lo Lnll him tl11-r1• would lw sonrn atlPn­li1J11 to rolllC' his way and !'or hi111 1101 lo gl't i11vo!Vf'd with it." ,\ffhi1• Manning said. "1'1•opl1• 111igh1 try to makf' a bigg<'.r dPal ol' it. but lw has lo k1:Pp his plan· and work hard." 
Taki11g a nw from his brnlh­N's own 1·ollPgn nxp1-ri1•111·.n. 18­
year-old Fli also knows 1o he rnady to play at any minute. 
Most. people expect Eli t.o rell­shirt. but the same was C1XpC1ct­ed of' Peyton wlwn he started his lirst yca.r at Tennessee in 1994. 
Peyton also bngan his first col­leg11 season as the No. 3 quar­tr.rbark. But aftr.r Parlv-season injuries to Jerry Colq.uitt and Todu Iltdton. 1'11ylon took snaps in his l'irst game and was .the starter by midsoason. 
"I just told him that he should Im abl<! lo rndshirt. but. I was thinking the: sanw thing. You've got to h!\ rnacly any time," l'oyton said. 
AllPr Mtllling his (\ilrly chance, 1'1ivton Wl'llt. on to sl'l mmwrm1s SJ(C passing records, Ile was the runnnr-up for tlw llnisman Trnphy his SPnior sPason and t.lwn was tlw f'irst pick in the 
I1J<J8 NFL draft bv the !11di;111apolis Coils. · 
llis ol'l'PnsivP cuordinator ut. T1,n111•-;s1,p wus lhtvid Cutclilfo, who bnramn tlw 011• Miss roat'h last 1)1\cnmlwr, _jusl before Eli decitlnd to altl'nd tfl,, school wlwrn his father is still rngarckd as onn of' the greatest players. 
"llc's in a vnry friendly quar­terback systnm," Peyton said. "II' lili can get rnal romf'ortable with it, lw can havn a real suc­C<!ssful collegn carn11r. llowevcr, it's not a systmn you learn in 1mf' month or two, or a season. But I know that he's in good hands with his coach." 
C:utclitTP says that tlrn situa­tion rc\mains "game-to-game and day-lo-day as to exactly what happens to Eli Manning" as far as redshirting or playing this season. 
At 6-foot-5, Eli is slightly taller tluw his NFL-playing brother but needs tu clevPlnp his lanky frame. 
In collcgr., as he did at Newman High in the New Orleans area, Eli will play more in thfl shadow of his brother than his father. During his three years as Newman's start{lf, Eli threw for 7,389 varcls and 89 · touchdowns. • 
"The Peyton years at Tmmcssen wern rf'cm1t and pro­du cLi vc. anJ now he's a pro player." Archfo said. "There arc a whole of bunch of. not only college kids, but young adults who don't remPmbcr nw." 
But l'athnr Manning was ont' or tho best college quarterbacks of' his time, finishing f'ourt.h in the 1969 Ildsman voling and a spot highor in 1970. lie accountnd f'or 5,576 total yards and 56 touchdowns in thrnn sm1.sons at Oln Miss before heing t.he first-round pick of the l\'nw Orleaus Saints. 
Fli is actually th!l second l\turrning son tu go Lo Ole Miss. Coopnr. the oldest of the thrne Manning sons. dressed for one game with the Hebels in 1993. But a congenital neck injury forced him to quit football with­out ever playing a game for the Hebels. 
With Cooper out of' football and no opportunity for a Manning-to-Manning combina­tion at Ole Miss, Peyton chose Tennessee. While it was a deci­sion taken hard by Ole Miss !'ans. it wasn't for a proud father. 
repeat perfect year 
Associated Press 
HATTIESBUHG, Miss. 

l\'ew Tulane coach Chris Scelfo faces an impossible task. No mntte. r how good the Green Wave do. they can't bot.­ter last year's perfoct season. 
Most people outside the pro­gram don't even wondnr if the GrPen Wavt> will rt>peat a 12-0 season and No. 7 ranking in the final Associated Press poll. They instead wonder how l'ar Tulane will fall. 
"We still foe! like> WP huve to gain rospect," said re1'.eivcr Ju.Juan Johnson, who eaught. 68 passf's for 947 yards nnd a team-high 12 touchdowns in 1998. "Wn like being tho underdog." 
That is cxadly what tlin dcfenrling C:onfnrPnCfl USA champion Green Wavn ure in their season opener at Southern Mississippi. despite a 13-gamc winning streak that is the second-longest in the nation to defending national champion Tennessee. 
Southern Miss, the 1997 Conference USA champion, is a 10-point favorite in the Labor Day Monday opener. The last time Tulane was an underdog was Oct. 25, 1997, ut Southern Miss, a span of 16 games. 
Hecord-setting quarterback Shaun King (36 touchdown passes and six interceptions 
last year) now 1s 111 the NFL. On dcfonse, Tulann had to replac(i night startors on defense. 
"Obviously we don't have thn same team," said Scelfo, a Georgia assistant tho past thrno seasons who grnw up in tho Now Orlna ns ar<Ht a Tula,rn fan. "This is a n<)W chal11lngc. We am not s1wak­ing up on anybody." 
Especially Soutlwrn Miss. 
The Golden Eagin:,; had six turnovnrs in a 2 l -7 loss at TulanP in their I1)98 lt!agtw op1Hrnr. They ovnrcanw a I-:1 ovnrall r1icord Lo have Llwir ­fifth st.might winning Stlason, but still finishnd ,1 ga11rn lwhi11d Tulano, going to tlrn Ilumanitarian Bowl. instPad or the Libnrty Bowl. 
Tlw simp)I\ phrasn "'J-h-99," signifying tho dat.o of tlw opon­er. has bc<\11 postt'd through­out Jlatiiesburg for sevnral months. 
Soutlrnrn Miss coach .lnfT Bow11r didn't need the sum­mer-long promotion campaign to know the importance or thn opnner. 
"We're playing a tnam that knows how to win," Im said. "There is probably a tremnn­dou s amount or conl'iuencn there." 
Like Tulane. Soutlrnrn Miss has a new quarterback. But tlrn Golden Eaglns havn long been settled on their new starter. 

Notre Dame Student Council on International Business Development 
FIRST MEETING Tuesday, September 7th 
5:30 PM 
JORDAN AUDITORIUM COLLEGE OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION 
Everyone is Welcome!  
Opportunities:  
*Summer internships abroad  *Plan a CS lstBoston roundtable  *Play stock market game for prize$  
*Summer teaching positions abroad  *Design marketing strategies  *Redesign web pages  
*Delegations abroad over breaks  *Work with global companies  *Establish invaluable contacts  
*Plan forum on e-commerce  *Design ads, flyers, etc.  *Join global humanitarian projects  


page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, September G, 1999 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Varitek's homer boosts Red Sox lead in AL wild card 
lead with Rafael Palmeiro of sacrifice fly drove in Deivi Cruz, six hits over 2 2-3 innings. He to 5-3. 
Associated Press 
Texas. Rodriguez his 36th in who singled and took third on has not won since July 18. The A's narrowed the gap in 
SEATTLE 
Jason Varitek's second home run of the game, a three-run shot in the eighth inning gave the Boston Red Sox a 9-7 victo­ry over the Seattle Mariners on Sunday. 
Nomar Garciaparra went 4­for-5 with a homer and Varitek drove in five runs for Boston, which moved two games ahead of Oakland in the AL wild-card race. Garciaparra leads the AL with a .354 average. 
The Mariners took a 6-4 lead into the eighth on two-run homers by Ken Griffey Jr. and Alex Rodriguez. 
-
Reliever Jose Paniagua (6-11) gave up singles to Garciaparra and Jon Nunnally, setting the stage for Varitek·s 15th homer. The homers were tlrn first for Varitek since July 20, a span of 118 at-bats. , 
The Red Sox added two more runs in the inning on an RBI double by Damon Buford and a run-scoring single by Jose Offerman. 
Paniagua, who blew his eighth save chance, gave up four hits and four runs in just 1 1-3 innings. 
Rich Garces (4-1), the third Red Sox piicher, allowed one run in two innings. Derek I ,owe got six outs, allowing an [ll31 double to Griffey in the ninth, and earned his 11th save. 
Griffey's two-run shot in the first inning off Boston starter Mark Portugal was his 42nd of the year, tying him for the AL the third to chase Portugal. 
Edgar Martinez added his 22nd homer. a solo shot, off Garces in the sixth. The three home runs gave the Mariners a major league leading 211. 
Freddy Garcia gave up two runs in the first then solo homers to Varitek in the fourth and Garciaparra in the fifth. It was Garciaparra's 21st and third in as many days following an 111-at-bat homerless streak. 
The Mariners had a chance for another run in the fifth when Rodriguez flied to left field with a runnor on third. Troy O'Leary's throw to the plate was late but David Bell missed the plate, instead land­ing on Varitek's foot. Varitek 
then tagged Bell out Seattle dugout.  near the  
Tigers 5, Athletics 4 Tony Clark had a  two-run  

homer and a sacrifice fly as the Detroit Tigers beat the Oakland Athletics. 
Willie Blair (2-10) allowed three runs and seven hits over 6 2-3 innings for his first victory since May 8. Blair has only made three starts since Mav 26, his last coming Aug. 24 in the Tigers' 5-0 loss to the Seattle Mariners. 
Todd Jones pitched 1 1-3 innings for his 23rd save. 
The A's fell two games behind Boston in the AL wild-card race. 
The Tigers took a 1-0 lead in the first inning when Clark's shortstop Miguel Tejada's error. 
Detroit added four runs in the third on Cruz's RBI double, Clark's 25th homer of the sea­son and Bill Haselman's RBI double. 
The crowd booed A's starter Jimmy Haynes (7-12) and man­ager Art Howe responded by calling in Mike Oquist, who got the last out of the inning. 
Haynes, who extended his los­ing streak to a career-high five games, allowed five runs and 
Jason Giambi hit a solo homer, his 26th of the season, in the fourth inning off Blair. and Scott Spiezio added a RBI single to make it 5-2. 
The homPr gave Giambi his 100th R131 of the season, mak­ing him just the second Oakland player with consecutive 100 RBI seasons. Jose Canseco did it twice for the A's. 
Ramon Hernandez hit an RBI double for the A's in the sev­enth inning to cut Detroit's lead the eighth when Matt Stairs doubled with two outs and scored on a two-error play by Clark, who mishandled Ben Grieve's grounder to first and thPn throw it away. 
Royals 6, Blue Jays 3 
Jay Witasick pitched eight. strong innings and Hay Holbert had a career-high four hits as the Kansas City Royals avoided a sweep with a win over the Toronto Blue Jays. 

The Office for Students with Disabilities is looking to hire the following positions: 
Student Assistant: This person will help a Notre Dame student with a physical disability travd to events on campus. Evening hours, approximately 8-10 hours a week. $10.00 per hour. 
Student Aide: The aide will assist a Notre Dame student with a physil.:al disability with dressing and moderate personal care. Morning and evening hours approximately 8-10 hours a week. $ 10.00 per hour. Preferahle male students or Saint Mary's nursing students. Training will he provided. 
Academic Aide: This position will assist a student with a disability by acting as a 
reader, scribe, and note taker for CSE 571: Artificial Intelligence. Aide must be 
knowledgeable in computer science and engineering or math to be able to successfully 
communicate the material in this course. Approximately 5-7 hours per week. $9.00 per 
hour. 
If you are interested in these positions, please call the Office for Students with Disabilities at 631-7157. 
What would you do with a quarter million bucks? Want to learn the basics of investing?
$ $ 
Come to the Student Investment Club's Organizational Meeting And Find Some Answers.
$ $ 
Challenging Opportunities and Responsibilities Await all Members
$ $ 
ALL MAJORS WELCOME 
WHEN: TONIGHT, SEPTEMBER 6
$ $ 
TIME: 7: 00 p.m. 
WHERE: Jordan Auditorium, COBA
$ $
For More Information Call Matt Ulman 4-1758 
Or Please Visit the Club's Website at: www.nd.edu/~invclub/ 


Monday, Sepcember 6, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
McGwire homerless, Cards beat Brewers in extra frames 
Konncdy and McEwing scored double uff the glove of third games tu remain 2 1/2 games innings. I-Ill also went l-for-2 at 
As.ocia1cd Pre» 
on an infield single by Willie baseman Jeff Cirillo. ahead of Cincinnati in the NL the plate. McGee. Wickman was then Lankford and Paquette added Central. 
MILW/\UKEI•: 
Craig l'aquot.ln and /\dam Knrnwdy combinml !'or snvon hit.s and snvnn !Wis. and lhn St. Louis Cardi11als srnrod four runs in tlw I 0th inning to beat tlrn MilwankPP Bn1wNs 13-9 Sunday. 
l'aq 11Pll11 wm1 t :1-for-5 with four Hills. whill' K,,nm!dy w,mt 4-l'or-(, with three llBls. !'vlark f\,1(-(;wirc. who has 54 homers. W<'lll l-!"or-5 with a walk. 
/\/'tor Sl. Louis took ii 7-0 lead. tlw llr11w1\rs ralliml and tied il in thn 11i11th oil G1\off .lt!nkins' Ll11·1q1-ru11 llonwr off Hicky Bottalico ('.\-71. who (iarrwd tlrn win <IPspik blowing his snvenlh Si!VI' in ch dmnccs. 
Al'lnr Bob Wickman {:~-8) slurtod tlw IOtli by giving up a l!'adoff ,louhlP to flay Lankford. l'aquE'lt1i n'a1·lwd on a hunt sin­g!o trying lo sat:rilicn. Kmllwdy tlwn singhHI hoflll\ Lankford. and l'aqudt.l' scornd on a wild pit.di as Allwrt C:asl.illo struck 
Oltt. 
.Im• Md:wing tripled to score 
,---------------------------------------. 
~CUT HERE MDHAHGON DOORKNOB 
,., 
,~,' 
,'
: 
.I 
: 
! 
\ 
\ 
\ 
\ ',,.. 
............__ .___..,,. 
Dear _____ the grouch, 
There's something you should know. In the morning, you are unbelievably grumpy. And that's putting it very, very nicely. 
So, because I like yoo, may I suggest yoo start the day with a CROISSAN'WICH. from BURGER KING'. It's filled with mouthwatering sausage, egg and cheese. And that should make aJ1)'0f18 less cranky. Even you. If itdoesn't, then we're on to Plan B. And you don't want to know Plan B. 
Sincerely, ______ 

THE DELICIOUS CROJSSAN'WICH: 
1he Huddle -LaFort\Tle Student Cente, 

It just tastes better: 
-----------------------------------------------. -­
www.buroerking.com 
UMITED TIME ONLY. PRICE AND PARTICIPATION MAY VARY. DURING BREAKFAST HOURS ONLY. 
Ol9llftifll!NilJlPlllMIQI llllUJlKJIG-ISTlt'OOISVEllC8CSEffl'Tlt'1T.IJSTTASIESB£rmr,_N(Jfll:AEGISW'l:l)lll.fflffll0Ml.~N(JIIMIW.16llm­
rnplac1id by Hector Hamirez, who got tho final two outs. 
.Juan Acevedo gave up a lead­off single in thr1 ninth to Marquis Grissom bHl'ore walking Ron Belliard and being relieved by Bottalico. Jenkins lhm1 hit a 1-1 pitch 420 fct1l to right for his 21st homm. 
Th<• Cardinals scored thriw runs in the first and two in the third off rookie Kvle Pet1-1rson and addPd two in the fourth off Hafanl H!lque to take a 7-0 lnad. 
Tim Hrnwers closed lo 7-6 bofor0 tho Cardinals scornd two runs in tlrn ninth on an !WI dou­blii by McEwing and an RBI sin­gle) by l\lcGec. 
Edgar llcntoria led off the gamP with a single and llw Curdinals loaded the bases on 0110-oul walks to McGwirn anrl Lankford. Paquette then hit a sacri!ke lly all(l Adam Kcnnody followed with a lwo-run single lo make it 3-0. 
McCwirn singled and Lankford walked in tho third before l'uqLwlte lined u two-ruu 
___ -,-________________________ _ 
I 
I I I I 
.....--J.--....... 
..... 
',,.. 
\ \ 
I
' 
! 
: 
! 
/
/
,, 
,.,,' 
HB!s in the fourth to give Larry Luebbers a 7-0 lead. 
But Luebbers couldn't stay in long enough to earn his third major league ,vin. Jeromy l3urnitz hit a two-out solo homer in the fourth. his 28th. Jeff Cirillo followed with a single and rookie Kevin Barker hit his first major league homer to make it 7-3. 
11011 Belliard hit a run-scoring double with one out in tho fifth to knock out Luebbers. who was replaced by Lance Painter. 
Milwaukee closed to 7 -6 in the seventh on Grissom's two-run double against Hick Croushore. Mike Mohler came in with no outs and the tying run on sec­ond and got out of the inning. 
Astros 6, Expos 2 
Craig Biggio singled in the go­ahead run in tho seventh inning to send the I luuston Astros to a win over the Montreal Expos and a three-game sweep. 
Ilouston has won four of five 
Scott Elarton (8-4) gave up two unearned runs and seven hits in six innings for his third win in 11 starts sinr,c joining the Astros starting rotation on July 
3. 
With the game tied at 2, Ricky Gutierrez singled off reliever Anthony Telford (4-3) and advanced to second on a sacri­lice bunt. Biggio followed with a single to left to put tho Astros ahead 3-2. 
Stan Javier singled and Jeff Bagwell walked to load thA bases. Telford struck out Daryle Ward -who hit his fifth homer off Expos starter .IArAmy Powell in the fourth -and then walked Derek Bell to force in Houston's sAcond run of the inning. 
Ryan Thompson added a two­run single in the ninth to make it 6-2. 
Trailing 2-1 in the sixth, the Astros scored an unearned run to tic the game. With one out, Bagwell smashed a single past third baseman Mike Mordecai and, one out later, Derek Rell walked. 
Bill Spjers followed with a chopper off the plate for an infield single and Bagwell came home to score the tying run when first baseman Brad Fullmer's mishandled the ball for an error. 
Houston blew a chance to add to their lead in the fifth when Gutierrez was caught in a run­down while trying to come home from third on the tail end of an attempted double steal. 
Vladimir Guerrero raised his team-leading RBI total to 104 with a two-run single with two outs in the bottom half to put Montreal ahead 2-1. 
Powell allowed two runs ­one earned -and six hits in six 
r----------------------~ 
Register in Advance at RecSports For More Info. Call 1-6100 Demonstration -­Tuesday, September 7, Rockne Rm. 219 6:30PM 
?-;}=~~:::.. 
www.nd.iciu/-rccsport
L-~--------------------~ 

Kevin Sharpe .... 
PI ANIS T 
TUESDAY SEPTEMBER 14, 1999 
7:30 PM LITTLE THEATRE 
For ticket information contact the Saint Mary's Box Office 
284-4626 


Mets 6, Rockies 2 
Darryl Hamilton hit a grand slam against his formnr team and Masato Yoshii struck out nine in six innings as t.he New York Mets boat the Colorado Rockies, closing within 2 1/2 games of tlrn NL East lnad. 
.John Franco, making his lirst appearnnce since .July 2, pitched a scoreless nighth inning for the Mets. who remained four games ahead of Cincinnati in the NL wild-r:ard race. Franco missed more than two months because of a strained tendon in the middle finger of his left hand. 
After stranding five and get­ting just one hit in the first four innings against Darryl Kile (8­13). the Mets loaded the bases in the fifth on Hickey Hendnrson's one-out single and consecutive walks to Edgardo Alfonzo and .John Olerud. 
Mike Piazza thAn drove in the game's first run with a hard grounder to shortstop. Neifi Perez gloved it with a dive. but couldn't get the ball out of his glove as Henderson scored on the infield single. 
Robin Ventura's single made it 2-0 and Hamilton followed with a drive into the right-field bullpen, his eighth homer of the year and fourth since the Mets acquired him from the Rockills on July 31. It was his third career grand slam; the previous one was Aug. 11, 1995, against Detroit. 
New York gained a game on division-leading Atlanta for the second straight day as Yoshii (10-8) won for the third time in four starts following a stretch in which he won just once in 10 appearances. lie allowed two runs and six hits. 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS 
.... 
Erikson assists in Irish offensive explosion vs. Devils 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Associate Sports Editor 
After playing close to their chest against the Tarheels. the Irish offense let it all hang out Sunday afternoon against the Blue Devils in their 4-l victory. 
Th(i Irish shm\ied no signs of an emolional let.down after their draining loss to North Carolina on foriday night. Notre Dame contrulliid tho ball for most of the game and dictated the flow orthe game. 
"There is a lot of energy that goes into the North Carolina game," junior Meotis Erikson said. "We had to find that emo­tion that we had on Friday night. Not because we weren't excited about Duke but because we put so much into the North
-
Carolina game. We had to find that emotion again." 
To find the same intensity that thev had against North Carolina. tlw Irish for.used on getting their first win, according to junior captain Kelly Lindsey. 
"We wantmi to get our first win of the year and we didn't gPt it against North Carolina." she said. "So this was tbe best time to get it -the next game. Hopefully this is the start or our winning streak." 
Erikson dished out three assists and Jenny Heft scored a goal and added two assists to lead 1.he Irish offense as Notre Dame jumped out to a 4-0 lead. took a pass from Jenny Heft and Four minutes later, Erikson get them the ball." remained strong. Duke got fow The Irish offense was looking to dribbled right pass the goalie lofted a pass over the top of the The better offense was a scoring opportunities and only explode after the North Carolina for an empty net goal. Makinen defense to Heft, who launched result of a change in attitude, fired six shots on goal. game. threw a fake on Duke goalie Isis the ball past Dallis. The Irish according to Irish head coach The lone Duke goal came on a 
"We discussed in the North Dallis that completely stunned closed out their offensive surge Randy Waldrum. defensive miscue by Irish All­Carolina game that we weren't her and left her on the ground. in the 39th minute when sopho­"We talked a little but about American Jen Grubb. Late in getting enough offense as we Erikson picked up her first more Kelly Tulisiak redirected our defensive attitude," he said. the first half', Grubb turned the would have liked," Erikson said. assist 10 minutes later. Erikson an Erikson pass past the out­"We were worried too much ball over to Alexis Highsmith at "Maybe we were too defensive and Heft got the ball to All­stretched keeper for her second about defending in Friday's the top of the penalty box. minded. Today, coach talked American midfielder Jenny career goal. game. We tried to come out Highsmith fired from point about how we had so much tal­Streiffer on the left wing. Erikson credited her team­with a different mentality blank range at Irish goalkeeper ent so we need to get involved." Streiffer fired the ball past mates for her assists. today." LeKeyshia Beene. The goal was 
The Irish offense got involved Dallis from 15 yards out to put "My teammates made great Even with the more offensive Highsmith's second of her early an·d often. Anne Makinen the Irish up 2-0. runs," she said. "I just had to minded strategy, the defense career. 
1999 Key Bank Soccer Classic All-Tournament Team 
Offensive MVP: Kim Patrick, UNC 
Defensive MVP: Lindsay Stoecker, UNC LaKeysia Beene, Anne Makinen, Notre Dame Notre Dame 
Kara Brown, Rebekah McDowell, Notre Dame UNC Lorrie Fair, Mary-France Monroe, UNC Connecticut Meredith Aorance, Kim Patrick, UNC UNC Jen Grubb, Jenny Streiffer, 
Notre Dame Notre Dame Sherrill Kester, Duke 
Kelly Lindsey jostles with a Tarheel for position in Friday night's game. Lindsey later left the game with a knee injury, returning to action against Duke on Sunday, 


JOHN DAIL YfThe Observer 



Monday, September 6, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
---:_-_-_:_:-_:_:-~:::---=------=---=-----_-_-_----=------=---=---=-----=----:...-:...-:...-:...-::.__--_--:__--:__-::.__--_-:...-:.._-::.__-:.._-:...-:.._-:.._-:_-:...--:__--_-:.._--:__-:__-:__-:...-:...-:...-:...-:...-:...--:__-:...-:...-:...--:__--:__-:__-:__--_-:...-::.__-:__-_-:__--:__--:__--:__--:__-:__--:__--:__--:__--:__--:__-:...-:_-:..-:...-:...-:...--:__--:__-:...-:...--_--:__-:...--:__--_-:...-::.__--:__-:...-:...-:__--_--:__-:...-:__-:...-:...-:...-:..-:...-:...-:...-:..-:...-:...-::._-:..-= 

W.Soccer 
continued from µage 24 
"Psychologically, it hurt us to givn up a goal so late in tho game," Waldrum said. "And thnn to turn around and say 'Ob, now we have 30 minulns LO go inst(rnd ol' thrrni.'" 
Futiguo and injuries each played a part in the late ganrn rollapse by tho Irish. In the 8 l st minute, Irish captain Kelly Lindsey wnnt down with a knr.o injury. 
Without Lindsey on tlw back line, Irish All-Ame.rican and captain Jen Grubb switched from rnidlielu to defonsn whilo l\footis Erikson replacf'd Grubb in the midfield. The injury Lo Lindsoy a.f'foctnd 1ho tnam grnatly, acrording to Grubb. 
"I canw hack from the mid­l'ii•ld and it kind or shil'tnd arnund tlw whole team,'' Crubb said. "Obviously whnnevor you Imm onn of your big timc play­rn·s you're worried about hnr. Plus thorn's a hreak in tlrn gamo when we had momnn­tum. It breaks down lrncausn W<' had to take a brnak." 
Freshman ddcndcr .,\shley Dryer sulforml an ankle sprain just beli,re lrnlf'timn and did not play in the second hall' or in ov()rtinw. Starting defondnr 
Vanussa Pruzinsky bngan cramping late in tlrn second half and had to sit out thn 1mtire overtime. 
The gamP was extnirnnly physical throughout with 2:3 
fouls assessed to both teams. Thn intensity and passion of thu ganrn led to tlw rough play, according to Waldrum. 
"We knnw the intnnsily lt-w1il and tlrn high pressurn tlwy bring to the tabhi," lw said. "Wn didn't want to sit back and let tlwm takn iL to us out of rnspllct for them. Wn wantnd to make sure we dislwd it hack." 
Dnspiln the loss, llrn Irish Wlffl\ not disappointnd with tl111ir 11lforts. 
"I don't think we can b(\ too disappointed with thn way wn played," Gruhh said. "Obviously Lim outconrn was disappointing hut l'or our first gamn WI' playnd pretty wolI." 
Notre Danw is putling thu loss into rwrsp1:ctive. 
"If wo could play thorn again at tlw 1md of tlw ynar and Wt' win." W:ildrum said. 'Tl! takl' that Lrad!iof'f'. WP haV(' sonrn areas wo nnod to improvn but wn lost to a grnal Loam. Tlwy art\ not what thny arn hncaus1: ­thny an• avnrawi.:, 
The Tarht't\ls opl'lll\d th(: scoring in tlw 24th minutn on a goal by i\111w Hnmy. Lindsay St1wlwr assist1HI on tlw goal. 
Tim Irish tit\d tlu: ga1111) just two minut1•s lat1'r off a vollPy by Monica (;onzalPz. c;onzalPz rndinit'lPd a cross l>y .lPnny !left into tlw nnt to tiP thn game at Oil!'. 
With l1•ss than two minutns rnmaining in tlrn first half', Sarknsian picknd up a IoosP ball from 25 yards out and firnd it past tho Tarh1wl kenpnr for thn lnad. 

1999 Key Bank Soccer Classic 
. Day 1 Duke 2 Connecticut 0 
. Day2 
UNC3 Connecticut 1 UNC 3 Notre Dame 2 
Notre Dame 4 Duke 1 

Gonzalez's return yields first Irish goal of season 
By BRIAN KESSLER \pnm l·.<lirnr 
NotrP lla11w junior Monica c;n11zalPz was wailing !'or this 111011wnt l'or morn lhan a yPar. 
i\l'll'l' missing lwr 1•ntirP sophomoni spason with an injury, Gonzal1\Z scornd a goal i11 Friclay's spason op!•1wr with scc­oud-rankPd North (:arolina. Ilnr rnturn. how,•vl'r . ..,,,as sonwwhat bitL1irsw(iet, as llH· Tar IIPPis handed 1hP Irish a J-2 rloubll' ovPrtimP loss. 
c;onzo, as shP is affoctionatPly i:alled hy lwr tPammaLPs, maclP a 1wrfoct nm into tl11• box and voll1\ynd in a .lc\nny llnrt noss to ti11 llw ga,11<' at orw midway through thP lirst lwll'. 
"II was 1•x1·iting." <:onzall~z said. "l wasn't 1·xpcding to scorn today. I alrnost forf.{ot what it is like to score in such a big ganin likti that." 
Conzal,v. how1wn, ltad so11w hig game PXJlPl'iPJH'.P this s11mm1ir whiln compd.ing in thP World Cup for tlrn Mexican National r,•am. wlu•ri· she tnanrnc! up with formPr Irish play,,r Monica (;prardo. C1111za.lnz will now lw callnd upon to Jill (;prardo's sho«'s. as she l'Pplacns Notrn llanw's all-lillll' l!'ading s1·.ornr on tlrn front li1w. 
1.-irsl-yPar !wad rnn«-11 Harnly Waldn1111 is l'Xrilt'd about Co111.id1\z's rdurn and Pxp1H·1s lwr 1.11 play a kPy rol11 for 1hc Irish this st>ason. Wnldn1111 is 11ls11 l'('alis­1ir i11 his 1•xpp(·tatio11s l'or Gonzalnz, who was away from tlw ganw !'or almost a yPar. 
"Silo's come along real wnll." Waldrum said. "Sim spnnt some time with Mexico al thn World Cup and that was a grnat nxperience for her. The thing wn need to gel lwr to do is she is very good in peri­mls of the ganrn, but we want her Lo be vPry good f'or longer periods or the game. Shn's kind of in and out a little bit. If we ('an get lwr to 1rnt il all Logelher. she is going to have a great year for us." 
ConzalPz had an outstanding freshman yPar for the Irish. She scored 10 goals and had live asssists while helping Notre Damn lo a Big East championship and a berth in the NCAA Final Four. 
Slw was named Big East rookie of the wnPk allt\r tallying a goal and an assist in her first collegiate game.The junior for­ward also scored crucial goals in theNotn~ Damn's win over Connecticut in llw Big East championship game and against UCLA in the NCM quarterfinals, Slrn also was namnd t.o tlrn adidas, Lady Footlock(ir Classic all-tournamenl team. 
(;011z11lnz's return, howevPr, hasn't bnon easy. 
"I was ,iust thinking abllut glltting in shap(' and g1~tt.ing hack to a gamn," Gonzalnz sn.id. "Coming hack into a game likn this, I can't rnally conrnntratc on S{'.Oring a goal, Ijust ham to worry about doillg my ,iob." 
(;onzal(!Z is doing tlw job 011 and oil' tlm !iPlcl. Slw bousls a :t.45 cumulativ<\ c;p,\ as a linancn major. 
Tlw Tw,rns-nativ<) will rPlurn homn latPr this snason wlwn llw Irish face Tnxas i\&M and SMU in this vnar's Challnngn Cup. · 

Monica Gonzalez battles a North Carolina defender for control of the ball in Friday's Key Bank Classic match-up_ 
., 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, September 6, 1999 

-

JOHN DAILV/fhe Observer 
Connor LaRose and the Irish men's soccer team picked up their second consecutive win over the Eagles Saturday. 

&-=--;;.w,-,;.;oeui~~ 
.JERUSALEM IN FORIVIATION MEETING 
With 
Fr. Oa, id Burrell. Julliet Mayinja. Assistant Director International Study Programs 
TUESDAY SEPTEMBER 7, 1999 
4:45 P.i\'I. -5:45 P.~I. 119 DEBARTOLO 
.\LL ARE \\'ELCOI\I E! 

minutes remaining in the second defense and continued offnnsive hall' and jeopardized Notre attacks led th1~ Irish to its second
M. Soccer 
Dame·s one-goal edge wlrnn he 
straight win this season. 

delivered a shot on goal that was
continued from page 24 . This is the first time since tlrn 
saved at the last second by Aris. 
1995 season that Notrn Danu~ goal. Short's diving save pre­has npcnnd its campaign with served the lead and put him on Notes twu consecutive wins. an track to record his second career . In a physical game. in which impressive feat considering tlrn shutout. 
the referees doled out live yellow incxperienco of' tlw Irish startingSchmidt struck again with 10 
cards and 40 fouls, scrappy line. 
t4---t•
tf~'rt:R' ro• 
Appalachia Seminar 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 



THE SEMINAR 
• 
Service-learning through various sites in Appalachia, October 17-23, 1999 

• 
One credit Theology course 

• 
lnvolves orientation & follow-up classes 

• 
Past participants in Appalachia Seminar are encouraged to appply as Site Coordinators 

• 
Presents opportunity to wnrk, laugh, & learn with others 


The Appalachia Seminar during Fall and Spring break presents a unique service­learning opportunity. Students travel to a variety of sites in Appalachia which focus on issnes concerning rural health care, the environment, women, children, and housing construction .. Thruugh hands on work and person-to-person contacts, students experience the cultural richness of the area and begin to understand and analyze the social forces that influence the Appalachian people 
APPLICATIONS 
Available at the Center for Social Concerns Due date: Thursday, September 9. 1999, 10:00 am $40 deposit with application 
(non-refundable if accepted) 

INFORMATION NIGHT 
Monday, September 6, 7:30-8:00 pm @ CSC 
FURTHER INFORMATION 
Rose Domingo, Student Task Force Co-Chairperson. 634-3960 Rachel Tomas Morgan. Seminar Director, 631-5293 
c[Fturs.da1:. September 9 
or Seniors. 2nd Ye'ar ~(}3~, and S in Accountanc1 Students 
Career g7orum, 6:oo W~to s:3o W~ 
~Pida1, Septem&er·10 
or 1st Ye'ar~(J3~, 3unlors, opftomores and' ~resftmen 
Ca,,eer g7orum, 10:00 _!\~to 3:30 ~ 
CmfomiattonSessions, 9:35 A~to 2:45 
--~ 


Monday, September 6, 1999 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
TOM KEELEY 
JEFF BEAM

A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD
FOURTH AND INCHES 
Fox TROT (DILBERT HAs MovEo rn THE V1EwP01NT PAGEs.) BfLLAMEND 
1\-IAT 80'1' :rASoN, CoULO UNTIL SCHooL... UNT1L SCHooL... UNT1 l SCHooL ... 
'23 HoORS LEFT 22 HOURS LEFT 'l. 1 tlouRS LEFT 
OoES PUT You Do 1\-IAT WE. LABoR'" OUTS10E11 YotfRE IN •'LABoR WEAR1N& HoLES DAY." tN THE CARPET. 
\~ 
-·

(, J,@J_,...,..._\1/ 


beam.1@nd.edu 
EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 35 Destination for as Charles Lamb, 
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 1999 1 6-3, 5-7 and many Cuban pse udonymously 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS let your enwtions intt•rfen1 with your
6-4, e.g. refugees 66 War horse 
DA'I': Mark Chesnutt, Swr1<1sie KurlL, professional goals. 000 
5 Yep's opposite 38 Containing no a1 Great Lakes fish 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sepl. 22): Educa­Jane Curtin, Billy Rose, Rog,'r 'v\'atN,, 

admixtures 
Micha,,1 Winslow tillnal pursuits will help you advance
68 "Casablanca"9 Ancient Celt 
Happy Birthday: You must gel le> professionally. Female friends will
39 Civil War song cafe owner 14 Los Angeles 43 
know )'DUrself better. If you lack con­help you change \'our mind about gang member 
Travel around 69 Piggy bank 
fidence, you will find it difficult 1,, your direction. 000
44 Disney dwarf deposit 
take advantage of the opp,>rtunities LIBRA (Sept 23-Ocl. 22): Finan·
15 At any time who "never had 70 Dame Myra 
lhat surround you. Facl' \'oursdf cial limitations \\'ill be a problem. ....,,. ..
18 Raging group anything to say" 71 Neuter 
head-on and determine \\'hal l'llll Avoid spending 100 much on your· 
45 W.W. II craft: 
want lo achieve. Realize that vou· are self, children or entertainment.
17 Face-to-face Abbr. 
in control of your own lik. Make the Overindulgence will b,, a problem 46 Texas oil city 
exam DOWN 
decisions that will serve you besl. and Try to curb your habits 0000 
18 _ carotene 1 "Ivanhoe" 
you will move in a positive dir,,ction. SCORl'IO (Oct 23-Nov. 211: One·
49 Atlantic states, novelist18 Harass 
Your numbers: 3, 17, 22, 25, J2, 46 sided romantic infatuations are evi­
with ''the" 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Ot1t dent Don't let your imagination get
2 Miscue20 1970 Pearl s1 The "p" in r.p.m. 
with the old and in with the new. Y,,u out of hand. Look into how you can
3 Princess topper Harbor film 52 Pick up the tab 
can make career changes il 1·ou wanl. help others rather than waste your
4 Swimming pool 23 Landfill fill for 
Believe in yourseli, and you will con· time on a dead-end connection. 00
sound 
,·ioce oth('rs to bt'lieve in y,,u as well. SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21):
24 Rose's beauty 56 Writer Joyce 5 Mount from 
Go after vour dreams, hop,'s and Y,,u should be discussing your inten­
Carol_
25 Raises which Moses 
tions and ideas with your boss. Yourwishes. 00000
59 1965 #1 hit by viewed the 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): L,n·e high enthusiasm will spark an inter­
2a Justice Black the Byrds 
relationships will be plentitul Sh,,p­est in others and inspire them to help
Promised Land JO Gretel's brother 61 Comforter 
ping will be satisfying, and wu \\'ill you realize your p!ar\s. 00000 32 Make dresses stuffing 
6 "Man !" 
find a number of purchases thal CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19):
1 Flower feature 
wcm't break your budget Things Social events should include travel for 
and things ~ Western Indian a Poet's muse 
appear to be getting better. 00 pleasure. You will gain popularity s TV's" and 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Re­through your ability to please others. ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE Greg" 
search will be necessary if \'OU want Sudden romantic adventures are like­10 Barrett known 
to sta\' ahead of the game. YClu will be ly. 000 

Puzzle by Gregory E. Poul 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): The

able to get a lot done if you stick tl1 imp<•rtant issues. Don't spread 1·our• things you start today will be to your 
for her dish 
11 Still-life subject 33 Undermine 53 Tennyson's sa Twisting 
self too thin or problems \,·ill arise. benefit. You will make new friends
Arden
12 Bachelor's last 34 Vacillate 59 Adult-to-be 
that will be long-lasting and loyal.words 36 Long March 54 _ drop of a 60 Graycoats 
0000 

CANCER (June 21-Jul) 22): rhis You will be able to make the alter­
13 Susan of "L.A. leader hat 
1s .an excellent d,1y to join JW\\' groups ,,tions you'\'e been thinking about 
61 Second sight,Law" 
.1nd t.•,pand your circk' C'lt lricnds. 000 
37 Trigger-happy, 56 Garden bulb for short 
l111on t losL' track ot how much Hlu·n") PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You say s1 Kane of "All My 62 Suffix with Israel
21 Soundly defeat 
spending. You can have tun ,,-itlwut will captivate._) tlw imaginations of oth­
22 "What a view!" 
g,lin~ ,1\'erbl1ard 000 ,•rs through your vision and percep·
40 Month, in Mexico Children" 63 Cub Scout unit 25 Customary 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Lea,·,• 11·,•II tJllll tn group end,.>avors. Don't hesi­
41 Potpie tidbit Salon works 
l'nough .1lone when it comt.'S tl1 \'<.lllr t.it,• to speak your mind. O/iposition. 
42 80's-90's champ 
21 Caught some Z's Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
personal life. Your greatc~l fl'\\'~rds will b,• there, bul you wil prevail 
Mike 
will come through ynur '"'rk ll,111'1 000
29 "Shoo!" are available by touch-tone phone: 
47 Well-built 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
31 "All Things 
Birthday Baby: You h.in' \\'hat ,t t~kt>s t,, lw gre.1t llL•li,,vc in y,,urst>lf
Considered" 48 Airport info next Annual subscriptions are available for the 
and your abilities. and \·,,u 1,·ill ll'ad \'Ourself and others lo bl'ttt'r timl's. 
network to "Dep." best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
f\,Ul1\,, your bt"liefs, and \\1u \\'i!! make "thosl' ,vho know r~1u proud tl\ stand 32 Razor sharpener so Idahos, e.g. years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
lw \ our side. · (\Jef•d advkt'? Chr•ck nut Fugenia's Web site~ .11 ~1stroadvice.com, e11genialasl.com, astromale.com I ,.f \~1N L1rnn..•r,.,,1I 11n•-,'.'o S, nd1r,1h· 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
Make r,hecks payable to: The ObserV(~r 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q NotrP Dame, IN 46556 
THE OBSERVER 
i'ublislH'd Monday through Friday, Thn D Enclosfld is $85 for one academic ynar
Obsp1·v1·r is a vital soun·e of' inf'ormation 011 pPoplP and nvn11ts in tlw Notrn Dame and Saint 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester
:vtary's Community. 
• 

Name ~-----------------------­l'ound Tlw Obs(~rver an indispensiblc link to the 
.loin tlw morn than 13,000 readers who have 
Address ---------------------------­
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 



-Excessively Early Celebration 
The Irish and the Woleverines battled/or the last time this century in a contronersy-jilled game. 

PORTS 
Irish Insider 


THF 
WoMENS's SOCCER 
Golden Goal downs Domers in double overtime, 3-2 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Associate Spores Editor 
The virtory SPCmPd within her grasp. As tlrn low hard shot flew toward Irish 
All-Alrn\rican goalkeeper LaKcysia Beene,
-
it appeared that slrn would makr the easy save and the Irish would open the B.ancly Waldrum era with a win over top-ranked North Carolina. 
But in a spilt second, everything changed. The ball suddr.nly changed direction and llPenc was left helpless as it leaped over her shoulder and into the net. The goal by Tarheel freshman Kim Patrick tied tlw game at two in the 87th minute, sending the game into overtime where North Carolina junior Meredith Florance scored in the 114th minute to win the game, 3-2. 
"It was just a bad bounce," .Beene said after the game. "I was straddled behind it and it just bounced over my elbow. I think that kind of took the air out of us. I think it gave them a push and took the air out of us." 
After the Patrick goal, tlw Irish never recovered. The last minutes of regulation and most of the two overtime periods were spent with the Irish desperately struggling to clear the ball from their own 
end. Jena Kleugel (9), Kim Patrick (5), Rebekah McDowell (6) and North Carolina celebrate Meredith Florance's game-win­ner in double overtime as LaKeysia Beene (1) and Mia Sarkesian (4) stand in stunned silence. 
see W. SOCCER/page 21 

MEN'S SOCCER 
Solo first-half goal by Braun keeps Eagles grounded 

By KERRY SMITH 
Spores Writer 

One goal was all the Notre Dame's men's soccer team needed Saturday to down Big East rival Boston College. 
Freshman forward Erich Braun came up big against an experienced Boston College defense to score the game-win­ning goal 21 minutes into the first half. 
The Eagles went on the offen­sive early, and the Irish could not clear the ball over the mid­field for the first several min­utes. Boston College's offensive strategy gave the defense trou­ble at the start. 
"Defonsively we ncnd to be a little more calm and not panic," lrish defender Justin Hatcliffo said. "vVhen they were knocking the ball over us and running, we weren't used to that." 
Despite a slow start, Notre name's attack settlod in midway through the first half. 
"Our game plan is to build from the back. possess the ball and wait for an opportunity," said Hatcliffe. "We played pretty well, but at times we started playing their style: knocking and running instead of the morn direct style that's our game." 
Braun scored tlrn goal that secured an Irish win wlrnn he picked up a loose ball tipped by senior forward Andrew Aris in the box on a corner kick. Freshman forward Rafael Garcia centered the ball from the right corner, but was rnjcct­ed by the Eagle defense. 
Garcia came up with the rebound and ccntcrnd it again to set up the play and tlw goal. 
Tim Irish capitalized on the goal and took control of tlrn game, keeping the ball on the offonsive for most of the rnrnain­ing minutes in the half'. 
The Eagles did manage to cre­ate a few scoring opportunities, but were unable to finish tlwir plays. Irish captain and goalie Gerick Short, came up with a key save late in the hall'. 
Boston College forward Casey Schmidt threaL!rnnd Notre Dame's load wlrnn he dodged tlrn Irish dP-fonse in tlw midfield and made a fast break for the 
see M. SOCCER/page 22 

at Purdue at St. John's tTJ Soccer at Illinois Wesleyan Saturday, 2:30 p.m. Sunday, l p.m. 'J:1 Today, 7 p.m.
SPORTS 
ATA 
vs. Western Michigan Volleyball vs. Kentucky Volleyball ac Ohio Tuesday, 2:30 p.m. Saturday, 2 p.m. Northern
GLANCE 
Friday, 3:30 p.m. 



