
C C & & au a &12 a a sac a a a L 
35 years and counting 
Welcome 
The U.S. Naval Academy Midshipmen come to 
To all the parents visiting campus for the game, 

Friday
Notre Dame Stadium hoping to end their 

The Observer staffwishes you a safe 
three-decade losing streak to the Irish. 

and happy Halloween weekend. 
OCTOBER 29,
Find out how they plan to do it. 
1999
Irish Insider 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIII NO. 41 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
STARING DEATH IN THE FACE 

KEVIN DALUMfThe Observer 
A member of Notre Dame's Juggling Club takes advantage of an unseasonably warm and sunny day to stand outside and flfp large knives in the air near his head. 

Holy Cross Sisters are part of SMC family 
By NICOLE HADDAD 
News Writer 
There's another whole world past the avenue near the Church of Loretto on the cam­pus of Saint Mary's College. 
Not far beyond the fast-paced lives of students, where endless studying, competitive sports and demanding jobs dominate, there is a world where com­passion, faith, prayer the mission for the Center for Spirituality, the sisters am committed to women's educa­tion," said Sister Hose Anne Schultz, vice president for Mission and director of the Center for Spirituality. 
Schultz said she has wit­nessed many relationships built between the sisters and the students on campus in her 10 years working at the College. 
"Serving as a liaison through 
campus min­
istry gives us

"The influence that t_he
and commu­the opportuni­nity are the Sisters have is a part of ty to get to most essen­
the students' continual know the stu­
tial things. dents and
lifelong learning." 
This world become a part is the of the events," Congregation Sister Rose Anne Schultz Schultz said. 
of the Sisters T h e i r
vice president for Mission
of the Holy Cross. Dedicated to fulfilling their mis­sion, they respond to the needs of not only the students, but the whole community of Saint Mary's College. 
From the time that the first Holy Cross Sisters voyaged from Fran~e to the United States in 1843, these sisters have committed themselves to providing the community with strength and fortitude. One example of this is their com­mitment to children. Since 1861, the sisters have operated orphanages and schools in Indiana, Illinois, Michigan. Louisiana, New York, Pennsylvania, Maryland and the District of Columbia. 
Closer to home, the sisters have developed a unique rela­tionship with the College as well as the students. 
involvement in 
the College community enables the sisters to bring their mission to a younger generation. 
"Campus ministry allows us to look at and share the needs of the students one on one," said Louisita Welsh. assistant to the vice president for Mission. "It is this presence that helps students get in touch with where we arc and where we've been." 
This presence also gives stu­dents something to bring with them after Saint Mary's. 
"The influence that the sis­ters have is a part of the stu­dents' continual lifelong learn­ing, even when they leave and are making life choices," Schultz said. "We ask ourselves how we can best influence through our presence with the 

"[They are] connected with see SISTERS/page 6 

Dissection: 'Necessary for learning' or unethical? 
By KATE STEER 
New., \l:1ri1e, 
Each year. 5.7 million animals are usod in dissections in sec­ondary and college classrooms ar.ross the country, including at Notru Dame. Tlrnse animals are considered "unwanted." as they often come from slaughterlwus­es, animal sholtnrs, str!'ets or rnsnarch labs. 
While somr poopln protest the ethical aspects of this practice, the procedure has 11ml lillle opposition at Notre Dame. 
i\t llw University of' Kansas, a group of students who object to , such usH of animals has orga­nizod to form Propounnts of Animal Liberation ( PAL) to address thc~c concerns. PAL's mission is one of environmental and social justicP. This group has submitted a proposal to their governing board request­ing that alternatives to dissec­tions be provided for students who ethically ubjecl to the pro­cedure. 
At Notre Dame, nu such effort is made. Some students do object, but no organized policy exists tu assist such people. 
"I'm pretty much opposed to dissection." said one sophomore arts and letters pre-professional student. ''I've found computer programs that simulate dissec­tion. and they're pretty well done. But I'm afraid my grades would be affected if I o~ject." 
The United States Humane Society (USHS) and the animal­rights organization People for tho Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) have researr.hed thfl neressity of classroom dissection. Both groups endorse the many pub­lished articles asserting that students using alternatives to dissection learH equally well or better than those that dissect in classes. 
Notre Dame pre-professional and biology students utilize ani­mals for dissection as part of their required curriculum. Typically in their sophomore year, pre-professional students dissect fetal pigs in general biol­ogy lab. Edm:ators tend to state that the experience is generally thought of as an essential part of the learning process for those planning to pursun scienr.e as a 
career.  Many  students  are  
caught  in the middle of  the  
issue.  

"Honestly, I don't like the idea see DISSECTION/page 6 


page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Friday, October 29, 1999 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Wanting what 

-we can't have 
We can't get enough of it. We want it every day and once we get a taste, we just want more. We get it around the clock -in the morning, after­noon and our big dose at night. 
We'll never lose our urge for the news. 
We thirst for knowledge. We devour it, digest it through our 24-hour news channels and tabloid maga­zines. We want to know as much as we can as soon as we can. We want to be the ones to shock our friends with what we've just seen on CNN or the Internet. 
Our insatiable hunger for needing to know everything is making us forget the peo­ple behind the stories and those writing them. 
We gawked and gaped at the first pictures of Princess Diana's tragic car accident, then admonished journalists for giving us the images. 
It's ridiculous that every you-can-ncver-have­enough news channel broadcasted reporters standing in front of the Kennedy compound dur­ing the JFK, Jr. tragedy with nothing to report. But guess what-wA aU tuned in. We all stared at the ship carrying his ashes and the church where he was eulogized for hours. The channels saw some of their greatest ratings ever. 
What I really want to know is, when is it too much? 
Where is that line separating what we need to know and what we want to know? When does it stop being the truth, and turn into the truth according to the journalist? 
In a perfect world, people would just know. There would be no need for reporters, writers or editors -information would just flow in and out of our lives like the wind. There would never be any question of privacy or ethics or stepping on toes. 
But it's useless to want what you can't have. 
For someone planning to enter the journalism world, these are disturbing thoughts. It makes my already-nervous mind wander to places I.just don't want to go. I don't want to have to question myself about the next person I call or the next question I ask. I don't want people to judge me for writing a story some may find offensive. 
[t's a scary thing to have to worry what impact your job, your words, have on people. And frankly, I'm shaking in my proverbial boots. 
Who wants to write a story about the tragedy of a student in a coma? Not me. Who, unfortu­nately, still has to make those calls? Me. Who could people possibly resent for it? Me. 
Who gets to feel the guilt of still loving the job that brings all this responsibility? You guessed it. 
It takes some major pride sucking to watch your friends go to interviews with acronym­named companies while you open your second internship rejection letter. 
But the saddest part of all of this is knowing that you can't control it. You can't control what you want to do with your life, youjust want it. You can't talk yourself into liking accounting or history if you've had your heart set on psycholo­gy. You can't make yourselflove business lunch­es and $800 suits when your dream job entails chasing leads and staring at a computer. 
In a perfect world, I would love something siin­ple. I would enjoy doing something cut-and­dried, with no toes around to step on and no moral questions to answer. , 
But there I go, wanting what I can't have again. 
The uiews expressed in the inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Tim Logan Amanda Greco Erin Piroutek 
Graphics Sam Derheimer 
Joe Mueller 

Sports 
Production Brian Kessler Kerry Smith. Mike Connolly 
Lab Tech Viewpoint Angela Campos Dustin Ferrell 
Th, Oburver (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Mond•y rhrough Friday except during exam and vauti<>n periods. The Observer is a member ofthe Associated Pres,. All reproduction righrs ar<: reserved. 

THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S HISTORY 
Afro-American Society denied funding 
Friday, Oct. 31, 1969 
Afro-American Society head Art McFarland and two fellow African Americans walked out of the Student Senate meeting after the senate voted 21-20 to defeat a proposal to allocate $2,500 to the society. The sen­ate then voted on a proposal to allocate $2,000 to the society, which resulted in a 20-20 tie. The matter was postponed until the next meeting. 
OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Leprechaun attacked by cadets Wednesday, Oct. 28, 1987 
During the Oct. 17 Air Force game, a group of approximately 20 cadets pounced upon Leprechaun Brian Stark, attempting to capture him. They intend­ed to pass him into the Air Force cheering section. Stark, with the help of the male cheerleaders and security guards, was able to resist the attack. Earlier, cadets had attempted to steal a flag from the Irish sidelines. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Racist group asks Northwestern for recognition 
EVANSTON,111. 

After the distribution of racist lit­erature last week, the leader of The World Church of the Creator has taken another step to promote his views to Northwestern students. 
Matt Hale sent a letter Tuesday morning to university chaplain Tim Stevens asking for permission to become a Northwestern religious group. 
"We would like to have the same status that every group has on cam­pus," Hale said. "We are interested in our people everywhere and spreading our religious belief's." 
The university said it will treat Hale the same as any other person seeking r.eligious recognition on campus. _ 
"We are going to respond the way we would to any other religious 
"We are going to respond the way we would to any other religious group that asksfor recognition, explaining the university procedures and policies. " 
Tim Stevens university chaplain 
group that asks for recognition, explaining the university procedures and policies," said Stevens. "I am going to explain what the policies are and what he does is up to him." 
"You are not automatically recog­nized by going through that process," said Al Cubbage, vice pres­ident for University Relations. 
"The university chaplain and vice president for Student Life retain the right to decide." 
To become a religious organiza­tion at Northwestern, at least 15 enrolled students must sign a state­ment asking to establish a group and clearly state the group's pur­pose, Cubbage said. 
"Mr. Hale apparently claims his group is religious in nature," Cubbage said. 
These students would have to detail any affiliation with an outside organization, such as Hale's group, he said. They also have to identify who the principal members are and clarify the relationships between the students and the off campus group. 
Hale said he chose Northwestern because of its proximity to his North Shore supporters. 
Michigan students fight sweatshops 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. 
As members of Students Organizing for Labor and Economic Equality are calling on the university of Michigan administration to endorse the Workers Rights Consortium -a new human rights and labor policy developed by United Students Against Sweatshops ­the possibility of another large-scale SOLE demonstra­tion has come into question. The university is a key player in the anti-sweatshop movement, said SOLE member Rachel Edelman. If the university does not endorse the WRC, the struggle to fight sweatshops will be more difficult in the future, she added. Last week, Brown University was the first ,to sign onto the WRC. But public policy profesor John Chamberlin, chair of the university's advisory committee studying labor poli­cies, said it will take until May for his group to make a recommendation to the university administration. SOLE members said they question the length of time the advisory committee needs to spend on study and consideration of the WRC. "I think we have some seri­ous work to do," Chamberlin said. "We need to think things through carefully." 
LOCAL W~THER 
S Day South Bend Forecast 

· Acco Weather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
UVA admissions considers wealth 
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. 

A student whose parents may be inclined to donate money to the university may receive a small advan­tage when being considered in the admissions process, University of Virginia officials say. According to documents obtained by The Cavalier Daily, the College's development office tracks appli­cants based on how much money their families and friends can contribute to the university. One docu­ment, which was sent to the Office of the President, has a list of "priority" and "regular" admissions prospects. Students' parents can be rated 'A' if they potentially can donate $10 million or more or 'B' if they potentially can give $5 million to $9.9 million to the university, vice president for Development Robert Sweeney said. Dean of Admissions John Blackbur emphasized that there are very few cases in which he would offer admission to someone on the waiting list because of his or her potential to bring funds to the university -and that he would do so only when the student is competitive in other admissions criteria. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Friday, Oct. 29. 
.............. 


~ 

Cl 1999 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM' STATIONARY 
PrtQum: . G]® © High Low Showers Fl•ln Via Assoc1aled Press  ~ T••torma  ~. Flurrlea  [3] Snow  fil;j. ,..  . ~ Sunny Pt. Cloudy  @A Cloudy  
Aspen Baltimore Boston Chicago Cincinnati  42 68 63 70 76  24 45 42 52 52  Los Angeles Minneapolis Milwaukee New York Philadelphia  84 57 62 64 68  56 43 52 48 46  Omaha Sheridan St. L<>uis Tucson Wash. DC  62 54 72 84 66  45 27 56 46 46  


_.) 

~,~,~~~ ~ (f 
S~o..,,rs T-storms Rain Flume• Snow Ice Sunny V,a Asscx;Jatect Prass Graptlic3N6I 
~ ~ 
Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
Friday, October 29, 1999 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
-=---=---=-=-=---=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=---=-=-=-=---=-=-=-=-=-========================================================================================== 




Dillon discusses nature of loyal Catholic dissent 
By TOM ENRIGHT 
Nt'Wli \X'riu.·r 
Why do Calholics that dissent rrom traditional tearhings in th(' Church n'main Catholic'! askncl Miclwle Dillon, associatn prol'nssor ol' sociology al Yale Univ()rsity, during a discussion Thursday. 
Dillon. tlw author of' "Catholic Identity: Balancing Heu.son, l•aith, and Power." conduc'.tnd a study of various Cal holies 11aLionwid11 bnlo11ging lo groups Llrnl oppos1• official l'hurch tPachings. 
"As a sociologist ... many of us are still int1\rPstPd that reli­gion is rwl a l'orm nl' disen­drnntnwnt." said Dillon, refer­ring t.n IIm succPss of rPligion in tlw modnrn world. Slw sur­vcy,•<l gay, l11shia11 and trans­gnn<lnr organizations, as wnll as groups supporting wnmnn 's ordinution and pro-choice groups in n·sParThing lwr book. 
Slw lalkl\d about thm;e orga­nizations and tlwir rl'lalionship to the Church, saying that con­s11 rvative and pro-change Catilolics of'ten conrn into oppo­sition. 
She denned ''conservative" to mean those who wish to con­serve things within the Catholic Church the way tlrny currently exist. Shn notnd that no such thing as a homogeneous society has existed, saying that every greal tradition contains some degrnn of variation. 
Dillon said Lhal much of tlrn present d<1bat11 focuses around tho oll'ncts of Vatican II. 
"!low lean one! emphasizo pluralism and Bquality yot maintain structures within your institution that lhavA] support­Pd inpquality'!" Dillon asked, rel'Arring to tlin apparnnt con­flict that Church members facP.. 
Dillon l'ound a general agree­ment about the presence of plu­raIi s rn within the Church among surveyed theologians, although slrn admitted that sonw wcro from pro-changic groups. 
She notnd Urn use of Church doctrirw among dissenters to push forward their beliefs. Dillon !'nit that this usfl of doc­trine provided a means for dia­logue between opposing sides within thn Catholic Church. 
Much or the discussion by audinncn members following 

her opening statements focused on the nature of her survey and scope of her analysis rather than the reasons why dissenters remain a part or the Catholic Church. 
Discussion arose among some audience members on the validity of considering such fundamental dissenters Catholic. 
Dillon and hr,r audience dis­cussed the issue ol' l'loxibility within the boundaries ol' Catholicism. She noted the gnneral lack of knowledge among younger Catholics about the Catholic faith. 
Audience members also questioned the nature and apparent narrowness of her study groups. Additionally they discussed the influence of Church or theological elites versus lay Catholics within Catholicism. Ultimately, how­nvcr, Dillon called for the dif­ferent sides in the debate to work together on Lhcir shared values. 
"[!fl you want. common ground. you need to pursuo it,' said Dillon. "Lot's look to sec bow WA can create common ground." 

"If you want common ground, you need to pursue it," said Michele Dillon in her lecture on Catholic pluralism Thursday. 
CLUB NEWS 


Big Brothers/Big Sisters provides role models for children 
from disadvantaged backgrounds "You are put in a position one. A mentor is able to take the his little brother, but the child's
By ERIN L1RUFFA 

by providing them ,vith opportu­where you can be a person [a child to different locations in the mother has thanked Koop for
News Writer 

nities and a volunteer role model. child] can look up to," Koop said. area, such as to the movies or to spending time with her son. The pumpkin decoration About 100 Notre Dame stu­play miniature golf. Children enter the program
A group or local children in 

Thursday through Notre Dame's dents volunteer with Big Groups of Notre Dame students between thr, ages of six and 14. 
l lallowoen costumes gathcrnd in active chaptP.r of the group. Brothers/Big Sisters, he said. He also go to local MentorsCarroll Ila.II Thursday to decoratr, "A lot of these kids will grow up also said that most of the local schools to make a one­pumpkins. 

without a lot of the opportunities organization's volunteers are mentor chil­''A lot of these kids will year commit­
The children were part of the w11 had," said Matt Koop, a junior Notre Dame students. dren there. ment, but

grow up without a lot of
Big Brothers/Big Sisters of St. 

and the presidr,nt of the Big Most volunteers are part of a "[Mentors) most usually
.Joseph County. an organization the opportunities we had."
Brothers/Big Sisters group on core program in which mentors spend consis­remain in the dnclicatnd to helping children 
campus. spend time with a child one-on-tent time with program for the children," Matt Koop the rest of' said Deborah their years at
president, Notre Dame chapter of

Burrow, who Notre Dame,
Big Brothers/Big Sisters

works for Big Koop said. Brothers/Big There will Sisters of St. also be an Joseph County. informational meeting at the 
"It's been the best activity I've Center for Social Concerns from ever been involved in," said 7 to 8 p.m., Nov. 8. 



Koop, who has had the same lit­As a fundraisr,r for Big tle brother for the past two years. Brother/Big Sisters of St. Joseph 
"He's changed a lot," Koop said County, Don Shula, former coach of his little brother. "He's been of the Miami Dolphins, spoke in able to do a lot better in school." South Bend on Thursday night. 
Koop said he does not know "We thought [Shula) has a exactly what he has done to help good message," Burrow said. 


cinema@thesnite 

Fri. &Sat. 7:30 p.m. and 9:45 p.m. 
presented by ND Film, Television, and Theatre www.nd.edu/~cothweb 
Next weekend: Lovers ofthe Arctic Circle 

page 4 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, October 29, I 999 
: '' ·-,,.>:;_)),. '/_.._' .. :\.. _.·-'. ;: '.

Author 'Events: 
Coach Af~.Parseghian :will beJ(gning copies · ofNotri1)11,nje's preate$t Coacfe'ion Friday, 10/29 frcirnt:00 p.m. to$:Off p.th. 100% bf. 

·booksa:leswilt be donated to the Ara . I\EAlESl &OAC Parseghiam Niemanm,Pick Foundation.< ocaNE 
On 10/29 from 4:00 p.m. to6:00 p.m., AHY 
Father Malloy will.besigning copies of . . Monk's Reflections t6 benefit. the Boys & ·.. .. . Girls Club ofSt.Joseph County. 

Ann Uhry 4}>rams 1i1rHegi&tiing copieiof .•.. . ···.The Pilgrims. 4,PJcakqntiisi2i/iFriday, 10/.~9. 
,,,:ii•2 J~r::JJ!ipies ofB:~:g :•. sat.tolft!1f!Jef~g~meri~a~: fhtfotre Dame , Story, !fJf~+193'4:9rr.Satllrda½: 10/30 from 10:30 a.rnt:.toJ~:30 p.m.·'. 
,Gerry.F,Jµ~fi:~iJkbeisigniiig copies of .,.. ·.· ''. The Goldin Dream 01.t Satµrday, 10/30 before thegaine/ · 
'.. :LNode Ii~e,a~~BP~lla group, .. The ·:. ,Und.e ,-.. · · form on 10/30 in the °'llowi1.1g the game. • 
illa;ilFbe performing 0/.3lfrom 11 :oo a.m. 
":Ji(., 
1;9'-<j;~erforming in the ftotri2:00 p.m. to · 



DAME 
~i:/rnter)
··o: -lllf ... · 
, p .. ,,., 
90pm ··opm, 
phone: 631-6316 • www.ndbookstore.com 

..... 


orld 


Friday, October 29, 1999 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
U.S. continues to bomb Iraq 
ISTANBUL. Turkey 

Hnsponding to Iraqi fire. U.S. warplanes bombnd an Iraqi anti-aircral'l artillery sih1 in llw nonhcrn no-11y zono on Thursday. a U.S. military slalf\llWnt snid. U.S. planes dropped prnr.ision-g11id1)d bombs on the sitp, nast of Mosul, 250 1nilos north of Baghdad. tlrn f;1irmany-hnst>d U.S. European Command said. ,\l] plant!S ldt llw urea safely. it said. The Iraqi military daimHd it shot down an alliPci warplann, according to a stalemnnt car­rifid by tlw official lnHti Nows Agm1cy. But tho 1'1mt.agon dcni,irl 1lw claim. "All the informa­tion I hav,i says that that stat<imnnt is falsn," Pm1tago11 spokns1111t11 Knmwth Bacon said in Washington. lrnq has pn•viously claimml lo hav1\ shot down a 1111111hor of U.S. and British aircraft 11vnr its tP1Titory, but has mwer pro­duc'.('cl l'VidPnt·P. 
Pentagon looks into massacre 
WASIIINGTON 

Tl11• Pentagon lias not yet cl!idded wlrntlwr to grant !Pgal immunity to any U.S Army vet­Prans i1 lwpns lo interview about an alleged massacr1• of South Kon•an civilians during the Korl'illl \,Var. IJef\,nsP Sncrntary William CohPn's spoknsman said Thursday. "It's prn­nrntLH'P to talk about any sort of' legal liability or jeopardy al this stagn bnc:ause we don't know what the facts wnrn," said spokesman Kn111wth Bacon. "When Wl> lnarn Lim facts wn'II l.w ablt~ to mak•\ other decisions." The ;\ssoriatnd l'rnss rnportnd accounts by Anwrican vet1\rans and South Korean vil­lagnrs that U.S. soldiers killed up to 400 civil­ia11s al No Gun Hi, a South Koman hamlet. narly in the war. Although none of the veter­ans gave a complde account of the events that occurrnd in latl' July 1950, their mcmo­rilis support tlw villagers'. account of a mas­sal'n', lhn Al' rnportml. Pentagon investigators hopt' U.S. veterans with information about the inrirlPnt will c11opPratn. Bacon said. 
Mexican flood victims return to soaked homes 
VILLAHEHMOS/\ 

Swol11rn rivers in the southeastern stale of Tabasco slowly foll Thursday, allowing some rnsidnnts to rnturn to houses twice llooded by tht! season's heavy rains. Among the thou­sands who worn forced to !nave their homes in tlw state capita! was Jose Felix Contreras, a 40-year-old oil worker. llis family finally rnturrwd last week. only to be told they had to lm1vc again !Jecausn of threats from the rising Carrizal Hiver. On Monday. authorities opened the lloodgatns of Las Penitas dam, which was beyond capacity and in danger of breaking. They released four times the amount of' water normally discharged. But over the past day, the Carrizal foll by about 9 inches due to a spdt of rain-l'ren days and thn end of releases from tlw dam. 
¦,iiUk:MJid&1W11li•I 

Dow  AME.:X: 793.55  
JONES  +7.24  
10,622.53  Nasd:111: 2K75.22  


+227.64 

IS'HI nlltl· 
\\1\llJN_t'tl\l J'\,1 \11("1(0\t Wit l tlH' 1 i lh ,ltt.J\11' I"'( 
\l! I \\'Ukl no 1:,-,i 1, rtn•r~ILIIIJ 
l•l 11.nn1,ll'!!JI.H 
I !\D'J\i\'\l'FM"I 
..,p,\,1..,11 llkl 1A[ >I.\ I \•\1J'.\lJ{"ll\1l'l,nli 
+72.70 
NYSE: 
618.15 
+20.01 

Co11111ositc
S&P 500: 
Volume:
1342.44 
949,800,000
HS.73 
VOLUME LEADERS 
III ti H 'Htl'JUN(if Sti\HS PHJCI 
l!o,J'l,.  +1.11/,  :2.7,C',2!,  . fo.!ift~  
•\Ml!"  -tdO  •.f.'H7~  .l~.707  
\1~11,· \·'VI ( 1\.1 n-1  .j_f)'f +S.24 t ":.Kl . :i,07  -lP>1J~O •2.f,H7~ +-6.U'i7~ +2;.12.1..ll  -iS.279 :ll ~1,;d 2M.77K 27.041  
11111 \'.',{ll  +U.B +.L, ~  ,i-(J,t2.'itl + !.7~-i.r..  21.7·12:m.1.~1  
~IISA  -tlH.H  t7.H'10  IY.4b<i  
r:1·0  •H.IJ11  •U,lli2~  19. l,'lo:I  


COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 

ARMENIA 


Associated Press 
YEREVAN 
Armenia President Hobert Kocharian declared three days of nationwide mourning on Thursday to honor the prime minister and seven others killed by gunmen in an attack on parliament. 
The assassinations stunned the nation. Armenians gathered to discuss the killings in offices, on the streets and at bus stops -some of them openly weeping. 
"I have never approved of the government's policy, but this cold-blooded mur­der was a beastly action," said Levon Grigorian, an engineer. 
The gunmen, who said they opened fire to punish 
YUGOSLAVIA 

Milosevic may face genocide charges 
corrupt officials, surren­and officials. They were to dered Thursday morning be buried on Sunday. after they were allowed to In Washington, Secretary speak on national televi­of State Madeleine sion and Albright were given directed t h e "/ have never approved her deputy, promise of Strobe
ofthe government's 
a fair trial. Talbott, lo
policy, but this cold­
They then return to turned over blooded murder was Armenia t h e i r and offered
a beastly action." 
weapons the former and freed Soviet appromi­Levon Grigorian republic 
mately 40 Armenian citizen assistance hostages in its trou­who had been taken after bled transition to a post­the gunmen burst into the Communist era. parliament building and "We have to sec what we opened fire Wednesday. can do to lessen the pain," 
Three days of mourning Albright said. begin Friday to honor lier comments came as Prime Minister Vazgen the five gunmen were Sarkisian, parliamentary charged with terrorism speaker Karen Demirchian and attempting to weaken and other dead lawmakers state power. If convicted. 
ers after a 78-day bombing campaign against Yugoslavia. 
Del Ponte. a former Swiss federal prosecutor, was on her first visit to the Balkans since she was named to replace Canadian judge Louise Arbour last month. 
Also Thursday, NATO and t.he Unitnd Nations promised to find the ethnic Albanians who stornwd a convoy of 155 Serbs leav­ing Kosovo on WPdnesday. The attackers s(it firn to 11) vehicles and forced doz1ms Lo hide in an Italian mili­tary garrison. 
P«-!acekHeoers said they could be sentenced to up to 15 years in prison or sentenced to death, though them has been a moratori­um on capital punishment since 1994. 
Tlrnir leader, Nairi Unanian, an ardent nation­alist, accused the govern­ment in his television address of allowing Armenia to disintngrate. lie also accused the coun­try's elite of sapping the economy through corrup­tion, and called for a national renewal. 
"We wanted to save the Armenian people from per­ishing and restore their rights," he said in a state­ment broadcast shortly before he and the other gunmen surrendered. "Those responsible for robbing the country must face trial along with us." 
Thursday that 18 of tlrn :{4 Serbs in the convoy were injured, but that all the Serbs eventually reached Montenegro safely. 
Meanwhile. Montenegro's parliament in Belgrade snemed to take anotlrnr stnp toward inde­pen den co by adopting a rww citizenship law that defines Montnnegro as dis­tinct from Serbia. 
MontNH\gro has not had a separate citizonship nwasurn sinr.P I <)18, when it gaw up ib irHfopP!HIPnn' in favor of a union wilh S<'l'bia. Croatia and Slovonia -tlw precursor to Yugoslavia. 
Associated Press 
PHISTINA 
President Sloboclan Milos<'Vic may face more criminal charges, including genocide, in connnction with the bloody crackdown on eth11ic Albanians in Kosovo, the chief prosecu­tor or lhe inlfirnal.ional war crimos tribunal said Thursday. 
Cnrl,t de! Punte told rnporte1·s th(\ l.ribunal was considering additional charges that includnd "of'fensns committed in Croatia and Bosnia­llerzegovina, as wP-11 as the offenses commitied in Kosovo during 1998, including the charge of genocide." 

Milosevic and several lieutenants have already been indicted for war crimes allegedly commit­ted in the violence against ethnic Albanians. But Milosevic has never been clrnrgHd with offenses committed during wars elsnwhere in the former 
Yugoslavia, such as Croatia and Bosnia. 
Tribunal inv(~stigators have been i11 Kosovu gath­c ring evidence f'or the casns since June 12, whnn NATO sent in peacl'kcep­


page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, October 29, 1999 

New rules would deny aid to drug convicts 
By TRAV(S REED 
U-Wire 
MINNEAPOLIS 
Students planning io apply for federal financial aid should prepare to divulge more than just their social security num­ber, universitv and address. 
The U.S. ·Department of Education published final rul­ings last Thursday on a law prohibiting students convicted of drug-related crimes from receiving federal 
financial aid. 
"I don't necessarily thing 
The regu­
that it will keep people 
lation makes students who from using drugs, but I 
have been think it might keep
convicted of 
people from completing
drug charges 
ineligible to their education.,, receive Pell Grants, stu­
Dave Hayden
dent loans 
University of Minnesota
and other 
common types of federal aid. 
The Education Department regulation, slated to take effect on July 1, would with­hold funds depending on the severity and number of offens­es. 
With one conviction of drug possession, a student is barred from financial aid for one vear. A second conviction bars astudent for two years, and a student with three offenses will be indefinitely disquali­fied. 
Those convicted of selling 
Sisters 
continued from page 1 
students." 
In order to keep the mission alive throughout the College, the sisters must interact with the students in projects such as the Catholic Social Teaching Retreat: Choices in Action, according to Schultz. 
"The reason is to help our­selves and others to grow in holiness and to be of service in the Church, through educa-

WELCOME ND FANS 
purveyors offine wine & food 122 S. Michigan Street South Bend, IN Nexl to the College Football Hall ofFame (219) 234-WINE 
LUNCH -DINNER -CARRY OUT 
~S~<Utd'P~ 
tfawiHt-4 'Pt.J1J44­
1-'-r <Utd o~s~ 
11~°'"?r:-e~ 
drugs om;e will be denied eli­gi bi Ii ty for two years. With more than one conviction, eli­gibility for financial assistance would be indefinitely denied. 
If recent university police reports are any indication, the new standardscould spell trou­ble for an increasing number of university students. 
Drug-related offenses have quadrupled during the past four years, according 
to university police reports. from 1997 to 1998 alone, offenses 
a share of 
including skepticism from some university officials. 
"I don't necessarilv think that it will keep peop°ie from using drugs, but I think it might keep people from com­pleting their education," said Dave Hayden, University coor­dinator of student behavior. 
A student's eligibility for aid would be reinstated if the stu­dent completes a rehabilitation program, but critics charge that such a policy is useless to most. 
tion, healthcare, and other pastoral ministries," she said. 
The changing relationships between the students and the sisters is a result of the grow­ing involvement of the student body, as well as good student leadership, according to Welsh. 
"We are leaders in the church and :world and are con­tinuing to develop leaders in order to develop a movement," she said. "Our mission is to invite students to be initiators -to say to students, we are here to support you any way we can." 
jumped 26 perl'ent. 
Despite this trend, as well as vocal advo­cation of more strin­gent puni­tive mea­sures for drug offend­ers, the bill has received 
opposition ­
9:00t-, (!4t,e ~ '?ha I I :00aHt--1 I :OOp,t ?it-Sat I l:oo--I :oo-

Dissection 
continued from page I 
of cutting open animals, but I think it's necessary for tho advancement of science," said Mary Beth Patterson, a junior sr.iflncA-pre-professional major. 
Many students have per­formed some kind of dissection in high school prior to their first college experience, and some as earlv as fifth grade. but the topic continues to be a difficult 
one. 

''l'm kind of torn on the issue," said junior Christina Pride. "One the one side, I feel it's necessary for learning. Rut on the other side, I feel it's an expressed with words. Theyunnecessary waste of life." need to be visually SP.en and 
Most educators understand physically touched to fully
the debate, but still defend dis­understand tho composition and section as necessary for the lits] function," said junior Sarah learning process. The National Schneider. 
Association of Biology Teachers The approach that Notre {NABT) havf\ issued a statement Dame departments and profes­that supporL'i dissection when it sors take is to provide students is done with with the oppor­proper care tunity to get and following "On the one side, Ifeel the hands-on ethical guide­experience that 
it's necessary for 
lines. The seems very
learning. But on the other 
NABT also beneficial. In encourages side, I feel it's an order to make teachers to be it ethical, how­
unnecessary
sensitive to ever, the mini­
those students waste oflife." 
mum number that object. of animals is Dr. Mark used and spe­
Christina Pride
Suckow, cific guidelines
junior

director of the are followed. Freimann Life "In our labo-Center, is an advocate of sensi-ratory animal science course, we hie dissection. have six to eight students per 
"There are some alternative semester, and they are all pre­ways to teach anatomy [other vet. We try to keep it down to a than dissection], but in my expe-minimum [number of enrollees] rience as a veterinarian, there for humane reasons," said Kay are some things that are invalu-Stewart, an associate profession­able to see in 3-D," said Suckow. al specialist from the Freimann 
Some students are devoted to Life Center. traditional techniques and value There is also an effort to spare the hands-on experience. the lives of animals by harvest­
"Dissection is necessary to .. ing specific organs from animals fully grasp some aspects of slaughtered for meat, according anatomy and physiology. to Sunny Boyd, associate profes­Certain tissues cannot be fully sor of biology. 
"AllOW~fN OAftNlVAl! 

'v} 
ffJt>AY, OOTOB~ft 29, 1999.11 $TAftTINC AT 9:00 ~ t , ~ lAFOftTUN~ 9Allft00M ( •~.; ~ 
~ 


FROM 9:00 -ll:oO: 
fr'$ CE'TrfWC #E'ALLY ICA#Y Af1(JUW1' HE'#E'! 
f<'AftAOK~ bere', wt,ere you .see rbe 
reaHy .scary side of your frleDdsl 
"1:COftATt C00l(f1:S AN!' 
OU1'0AK1:'S! 


AT 11:00: HAtlOW~~W H20 

or sruom Aenvrrm 

Jack Duman, the chair of the department of biological sci­ences, said that as technology has increased, tho need for dis­section has lessoned, but main­tains that these alternative tech­niques are still not comparable to the actual process. 
"Using models and computer software is not the same as doing it yourself. Ultimately, the use of animals in biological and medical research is absolutely essential," he said. 
In their argument against ani­mal dissection, PETA also cites the fact that Great Britain's medical education system is still functioning successfully despite a 100 year-long ban on animal use for medical education. 
Notre Dame's efforts do not eliminate loss of animal life com­pletely. Biology and pre-profes­sional majors may be required to perform dissections at some point in their undergraduate career, 
For those students who are interested, the biology club spon­sors a rat dissection every year for those interested in dissection experience. This year's rat dis­section will be held on Nov. 3. 
"I think [dissection] is a great learning technique. In general, it's a good thing if done proper­ly," said Aaron From, president of the biology club. 



Friday, October 29, 1999 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Emeritus professor to sign ND history book 
. Longtime prof wrote book on early days at University 
Special to The Observer 
Hobert Burns. author or "Being Catholic, Being American: Tlir, Notre Dume Story, 1842-19H," will sign CO pi(~ S Of 
his now h o o k Saturday at 10::rn 
a.m. at h e 
llarnmes Bookstore in thn Eck 


<'.miter. Burns 
C-Span will covnr tlrn signing and Brian Lamb will mndnrate questions from 
tlw public. Lamb will also lap('. a private interview with Burns for later broadcast. 
Burns' book is an archive­basr~d ar.connt of the obsta­cles that the University of Notre Dame overcamP. in the first 92 years of its existence, as well as the impact the school had on the countrv and Catholics in particular. Lawrence McCaffrcy, profes­sor emeritus of' history at Loyola University of Chicago slates: "llis IBurns] interest­ing, diligently researched, affectionate, yet objective book is a significant contribu­tion to both American Catholic and educational his­tory." 
Burns, who currenlly resides in Vero Beach, Fla., came to Notre Dame in 1957 without previous exposure or committment to Catholic edu­cation and remained for 39 years as a teacher, working historian and administrator of the College of Arts and Letters. 

SING A LITILE SONG FOR ME 

MIKE HARRISfThe Observer 

The Notre Dame.Glee Club pre~ented its annual Fall Concert Thursday. They will give another performance tonight at 8 p.m. m Washington Hall. 
Bradford wins 01arketing award 
Special to The Observer 

Kevin Bradford, assistant professor of marketing at the University of Notre Dame, has have made the greatest impact on the sales literature in the last two years. 
Bradford's article, which was published in the Journal 
management, marketing strategy and management, retailing and marketing research. He focuses on issues relating to the improvement 
of the Academy of Marketing of the effectiveness and effi­
received the Excellence in 
Science, examined how the ciency of sales management
Sales Scholarship Award from 
\II/ELCOME100Uff 

practice of personal selling and the selling function. 
the American Marketing 
and sales management is Bradford was graduated in
Association 'for an article
A 

changing as a result of the 1984 from the University of
titled "Personal Selling and
BumbleAbode 

increased attention on the Northern Iowa and spent five
Sales Management: A
t-------­

long-term buyer-seller rela­years with in management
Relationship Marketing
"' 1632 N. Adcm5 Str~et 

tionships and to identify some with Payless Cashways. Inc., a
Perspective."
Socth Bend. IN 46628
Need a comfortable place to 

implications of these changes. 200-store retail chain. He
The award is presented to
$tav while vi$1ting South Bend? 
Toll frtt 

A first-year faculty member then entered the Master's of
the author of a refereed jour­
1-877-bf>2-. 129 

at Notre Dame, Bradford spe­Business Administration
nal article judged by an inde­
. J Bedroom/2 Bad! Hum• J~y & S,,rb...-~ Brown 

cializes in the study of sales Program at Notre Dame.
pendent panel of reviewers to
. 
Remonabfo NfghrlyiWeekly Rs.. 

. 
Z.3 Mllos from No!ff Dn• WAA•.~111mmt-tecllcorrulrumblo.html 


See What's New at Tomassit 

Multi Topping Pizza $7.77 Single Topping Pizza $6.97 Cheese Pizza $5.97 
Plain Breadsticks $2.37 1/2 Order $1.27 
Mozzarella Breadsticks $3.27 1/2 Order $1.77 
Mozzarella Breadsticks with 1Topping $3.77 1/2 Order $1.97 
COMBO 1, Pizza, Mozzarella Breadsticks, and a 2 Liter Bottle of Coke $10.77 
COMBO 2, 2 Pizzas, Mozzarella Breadsticks, and a 2 Liter Bottle of Coke $17.77 
~ 


page 8 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Friday, October 29, 1999 
Clinton proposes medical privacy 
. Bill would deny public access to sensitive records 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Picking up where Congress failed, President Clinton is proposing regulations to keep electronic medical records from the eyes of employers, marketing firms and others who uflen see patients' most sensi­tive infor­

Clinton 
mation without their consent. 
"I will use the full authority of this office to create the first comprehensive national stan­dards for the protection of' medical records,'' Clinton said in a prepared statement. 
"The new rules I'm propos­ing would apply to all elec­tronic medical records and to all health plans. It represents an unprecedented step toward putting Americans back in control of their own medical records," the president said in advance of a scheduled announcement today. 
The proposed regulations, administration officials said, would restrict the use and release of private health infor­mation transmitted or main­tained by computers. Congress debated the issue for years, 

but failed to meet a self­hensive way," he said in a pre­imposed Aug. 21 deadline for pared statement. legislating new protections. Under the proposal, doctors, 
Existing laws protecting hospitals or health plans would medical privacy vary widely not release a patient's nforma­from state to state. Currently, tion for purposes unrelated to there are no federal guaran­treatment and payment with­tees that private information out written consent. Private won't be passed to employers, information can now be sold to pharmaceutical compa­released to bankss, dir11ct mar­nies or talked about in insur­keting firms and others with­ance company offices. out a patient's knowledge or 
The administration will pub­consent. lish the proposal next week for When required to release review. It bas medical u n t i 1 informa­Pebruary to "/ will use the full authority tion, health issue a final organiza­
ofthis ojjice to create the 
proposal, 
first comprehensive
with Lhe rules to take effect national standards in 2002. 
for the protection
The new 
ofmedical, records.,, 
federal rules would go beyond the Bill Clinton weaker pro­
President
tections of some states, 

tions would limit the disclosure to the min­imum nec­essary for each case instead of a patient's entire record. For 
but would not override those example, when paying for med­with more restrictive laws. ical seP,ices, no treatment 
The rules would apply only to information would be sent to electronic information, includ­banks or credit card compa­ing computer records that have nies. been copied to paper. The proposal would create 
Only congressional action new civil and criminal penal­can protect the large amount ties for improperly disclosing of medical information that has patient information. existed only on paper, said Intentionally releasing infor­Sen. Christopher Dodd, D­mation would be punishable by Conn.. who wrote a bipartisan a fine of up to $50,000 and one privacy bill before the August year in jail. Someone trying to deadline. sell information could face a 
"I can only hope that the $250,000 fine and 10 years in administration's action will prison. light a fire under Congress, so Patients also would be given that we can deal with this criti­the right to see and copy their cally important issue in a seri­medical records and to request ous, bipartisan and compre-corrections of any errors. 
MIT frats are in trouble again 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 
Two MIT fraternities are in trouble, with one losing its dor­mitory license and members of another facing possible crimi­nal charges over a Halloween prank gone awry. 
The Boston Licensing Board on Thursday gave residents of the off-campus Sigma Alpha Epsilon house until Nov. 15 to find new lodging. The fraterni­ty is accused of serving alcohol to an underage Wellesley College student. 
"They have to be told they aren't children anymore," said chairman Daniel Pokaski. "I don't think they even have a clue." 
Following a party at Sigma Alpha, fraternity members drove a group of women back to Wellesley on Sept. 3 and dropped the intoxicated stu­dent off at a hospital. She was treated and released. 
Two years ago, the Licensing Board revoked the dorm license of another Massachusetts Institute of Technology fraternity, Phi Gamma Delta, after an 18­year-old freshman, Scott Krueger, drank himself into a coma and died. The fraternity eventually disbanded. 
Sigma Alpha lawyer Carl King said the fraternity was disappointed by the board's decision. 
Turtle Creek 

Parking By Permit Only 
Friday 4:00 p.m. to Sunday 6:00 p.m. 
Towing By Mark's Towing 1505 W. Sample 
South Bend, IN 46619 

MIT campus police also said Thursday they were seeking charges against three students and one alumnus after a class­room prank exploded Tuesday. The incident involved members of the Phi Kapp.a Sigma frater­nity. · 
The students were promoting a Halloween fraternity party to raise money to fight leukemia when the device one of them was carrying exploded acci­dentally. No one was seriously­injured. 
Two Blue Angels crash in training 
six of them," she said. "It was
Associated Press 
probably a half an hour later that we saw the smoke. I didn't hear a crash or anything.

MOODY AIR FORCE 
Someone said they must be

BASE, Ga. 
burning garbage. Then a littleA jet from the Navy's Blue while later the fire trucks cameAngels precision flying team by. It was just a big, black bil­crashed during a training flight lowing."

Thursday while trying to land 
The precision flying team,
under clear skies. 
basfld in PAnsacola, Fla., has six 

Both people aboard were F/A-18 Hornets that execute
killed. 
high-speed acrobatics. SeveralThe F/A-18 Hornet went down stunts involve

around mid-the jets mov­
day on a farm 

"This is a tragic loss to ing in tight
near Moody 

the families, to the Blue formation,
Air Force such as the

Base in Angels and the 
four-planci
southernmost 

US. Navy." diamond
Georgia, 
maneuvflr andplowing into 
the six-jet

a stand of Cmdr. Patrick Driscoll 
delta.
pines. The 

flight leader, Blue Angels
Blue Angels were sched­uled to perform at the base this weekend. 
"They were coming in to land, practicing arrival maneuvers, when this happened," said 
Pentagon spokesman Ken Bacon in Washington. "We don't know what caused it." 
Killed were Lt. Commander Kieron O'Connor, 35, of Burtonsville, Md., and Lt. Kevin Colling, 32, of Castle Rock, Colo., according to Cmdr. Patrick Driscoll, flight leader of the Blue Angels, 
"They are two of' the best naval aviators I know. This is a tragic loss to the families, to the Blue Angels and the U.S. Navy," Driscoll said. 
The Blue Angels have can­celed their participation in this weekend's show, Driscoll said. 
Beverly Peters of' Douglas said she saw the team fly over a gro­cery where she was shopping. 
"They came over in a beauti­ful formation. I think there were 
Since the 
Blue Angels 
were formed in 1946, the group has per­formed for more than 322 mil­lion people. 
Including Thursday's deaths. 23 Blue Angels pilots have been killed in air shows or training. 
The last crash involving the squad was in 1990. The last death was in 1985, in Niagara Falls, N.Y. Lt. Cmdr. Michael Gershon was killed when two planes collided during an air show. 
"Obviously if any sort of pro­cedural or maintenance prob­lems are revealed by the investi­gation they will be addressed aggressively by the Navy," Bacon said. 
"This is its premier flying team, a team that performs to the amazement and pleasure of crowds all over the United States, and you can be sure the Navy will do whatever it can to make sure that this team is at the very top of its ability to fly." 

Please note date change: 
Dia De Los Muertos 
A Traditional Mexican Celebration Honoring the Deceased 
Sunday, October 31st 
1:00 PM Meet at Lafortune Lounge 
1:15 PM Proceed to Stanford-Keenan Chapel 
HOMES FOR RENT 

-Domus Properties has two, five, six, and nine bedroom student housing available 
-Student neighborhoods close to 
campus -Security systems provided -Well maintained homes -Maintenance staff on call 
Avaitable for the 2000/200 I school year ONLY 10 HOMES LEFT 
Contact Kramer {219)274-1501 or (219 . 234-2436 or (219)674-2571 

Friday, October 29, 1999 The Observer . BUSINESS NEWS page 9 
Greenspan w-arns on inflation 
. Reserve bank on alert for faltering productivity, Fed chair says 
Associated l'ress 
WASIIINGTON 

The U.S. economy has ben­efited in rocont years from a significant upturn in the growth of productivity which has hnlped kenp inlla­1.ion under control, Federal Hcstirve Chairman I\ I a n Crccnspan s a i d Thursday. 
B ll l Greenspan warned tlrn Fed must ho particularly alert to any signs that produclivity gains am faltering and be rnady to contain inflationary forces that could derail America's long period of prosperity. 
Speaking to the Business Council. made up or chief executives f'rom some of America's largest corpora­tions, Cirennspan did not clirnctly address wh,ither the cnnlral bank was preparing to rais1i intnrnst raws when policy-mak11rs meet again next month. But he left no doubt that Fed officials are on lwightened alert. 
lie said the extra vigilance was needed in part because the U.S. economy was in uncharted waters with pro­ductivity -the amount of output pnr hour of work ­accelerating in rncnnt years after two decades of lagging gains. 
This higher productivity has allownd the Fed to let the nconomy grow at f'astr,r rates without worrying about inlla­tion sparked by rising wage demands. 

If workers arc more pro­price pressures to raise inter­ductive, then employers can est rates to slow economic afford to pay them more for growth tu a more sustainable the increased output without pace. being forced to raise product The Fed has already raised prices. the federal funds rate, the 
Greenspan linked the interest that banks charge upturn in productivity in each other. twice this year recent years to the massive and many economists believe amounts of spending busi­that a third rate increase will nesses have done on new occur when Fed policy-mak­typos of equipment and inno­ers next meet on Nov. 16. vatiuns to keep ahead of the Greenspan suggested that a competition. rise this year in long-term 
"But how long can we interest rates, which are set expect this remarkable peri­by market forces, may od of inno-already be vation to working to
·The rate ofgrowth of
continue?" slow eco­Greenspan productivity cannot n o m i c asked in his growth and
continue to increase 
prepared relieve some
indefinitely. At some
remarks, demand copies of point it must, at least, pressures. which wern "Going for­
plateau."
made avail­ward, the able in Federal Wash.ington. Alan Greenspan Reserve "/\ leveling Federal Reserve chairman must moni­
oul or decline in the growth of productivity would have a profound effect on the intermediate outlook should it occur," Greenspan said. "The rate of growth of productivity cannot continue to increase indefinitely. At some point it must, at ieast, plateau." 
When that occurs, Grnenspan warned, the cur­rent Light labor market could quickly translate inflation pressures if wages continue to rise. 
"That scenario of rising cost and price pressure is one policy-makers have dealt with before, and the actions called for, while bv no means easy, are rea"dily dis­cernible," Greenspan said ­in an obvious reference to the Fed's ability to slow eco­
nomic  growth  by  raising  
interest rates.  
On  previous  occasions,  

Greenspan has said the Fed is ready to move promptly at the first sign of accelerating tor not only 
t h i s response. but also the evolv­ing capacity of our economy to meet higher levels of demand," Greenspan said. 
"Maintaining balance between these forces will be essential to preserving the stable price envi~onment that has provided a firm founda­tion for this period of extra­ordinary innovation and progress in the U.S. econo­my," he said. 
In other Wall St. news: 
. Bond prices surged Thursday on news that infla­tionary pressures were milder than anticipated dur­ing the third quarter. 
The price of the benchmark 30-year Treasury bond rose 1 1/32 points, or $10.31 per $1,000 invested. Its yield, which moves inversely to the price. fell to 6.25 percent from 6.33 percent late Wednesday and a two-year high of 6.37 percent on Tuesday. 

Justice Dept. files suit against Compuware 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The Justice Department wants to block Compuwarn Corp. 's acquisition of Viasoft Inc. on grounds the deal could result in higher prices for cer­tain mission-critical main ­frame computer software. 
The department said Thursday it intends to file a lawsuit soon to stop the trans­action, which was announced last July. 
Compuware agreed to pay $9 a share to acquire the Phoenix-based provider of information technology man­agement. Compuware, based in Farmington Hills, Mich., provides management and development software. 
The two are head-to-head competitors worldwide for mainframe testing and debug­ging software and for main­frame fault management soft­ware, which the government said is crucial for some main­frame computer users to main­tain efficient operations. For 


t visited medical Web sites 
The top five most visited health-related Internet Web sites in eptember, based on unique visitors, were: 
2.6 million 
2.5 million 
1.3 million 
1.3 million 
1.2 million 
Source: Media Matrix Inc. 

some consumers. Viasoft is the only alternative supplier to Compuware, the government said. 
"Unless this acquisition is blocked, major companies, governmental entities and uni­versities will suffer the loss of competition. resulting in high­er prices, less innovation and poorer service and support," said Assistant Attorney General Joel Klein, head of the antitrust division. 
.Testing and debugging soft­ware is used to !ind errors as program code is being written and to fix code during produc­tion in the event of a process­ing failure. Faull management software detects and diagnoses errors that cause processing failures, which can save hours of labor and downtime. 
Compuware dominates both markets, but Viasoft is its clos­est competitor in testing and debugging software and is a new entrant in fault manage­ment software with a promis­ing product, the government said. 
BUAD 349: International May 23 -June 14, 2000 
INFORMATIONAl MEETING for Saini Marv's and Notre Dame students 
November 3, 1999 Room 233 Madeleva Hall 
4:001.m. 
contact: Susan Vance 
219/284-4507
svance@salntmarvs.edu 
The Depanment 01 Business Administration and Economics 

Irish Country Bed & Breakfast Registry 
""U'MU tp,« 't.t. ~ ~ a fda.ce. to. dalf... 
1690 l Jackson Road South Bend Call: (219) 255-1516 Fax: (219) 257-4193 
Web: www.irishcountry.com. 
t I l I I I t ( I 1 I I I I f I I I I I I l N ,I I ~ ! l [ l I t
Please recycle The Observer 


W A l l 

page 10 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Frfday, October 29, 1999 
Give away your coat ... and Share the Warmth! 



SHARE THE WARMTH AND SPIRIT OF NOTRE DAME! 
Project Warmth is in full swing! Last year, approximately 1500 coats were received and distributed to sites all across the country, including the Appalachia region, Indian reservations in the Dakotas, and outreach facilities around the South Bend area. Together, let us topple those numbers and make history!! 
EVERYONE can participate! 
The following sites are now eager to accept your coat donations until December 3: 
Center for Social Concerns * Hammes Bookstore * LaFortune Information Desk * RecSports *Alumni Community Service Office * Campus Ministry/ Hesburgh Library *All Residence Halls * College of Business Administration * St. Michael's Laundry Distribution Center * Bond Hall * Fitzpatrick Engineering 
* Flanner Hall * Galvin Life Science Center * Grace Hall * Law School * Main 
Building * O'Shaughnessy * North/South Dining Hall * ND Federal Credit Union (all branch locations), Student Government Office in LaFortune 
"PR ECT 
·.,:/·RMTH 
Sponsored by: 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
St. Michael's G E A R 
0

HAMMES BOOKSTORE STUDENT GOVERNMENT Laundry · • • • • ! 
Friday, Ocrober-1.~· 1999 
page 11 


Disabled want codes enforced 
A•sociatc<l Press 
Wi\SIIINGTON 

Advocate1s for Urn disabled askml Congrnss to rnjcct log­islation that would protect some builders from prosecu­tion !'or unknowingly violat­ing laws rnquiri11g them to makn ,ww housing more accc1ssiblr1 lo the handi­capped. 
"Companins that broke the law by rnfus.i11g to build acl'essible housing do not dnsBrvn a 'Get out of jail free' card," Christuphm· J\nrfors, a lawynr l'or thfl American Civil 1.ilJcrtics Union, said in a writt1\n statnnwnt. 
But a North Carolina buildnr said lw was in jeop­ardy of' losing his businnss because the Justice n11partnw11t cited him for vio­lating a law Im wns unawnre ol'. Len Tozer, a licnnscd gen­era I contractor from the Wintnrvillo, N.C., arna, said once he found oul about Lim law, Im l'ouncl lw supportod it. 
"To havn the guns of thn 
U.S. Dqiartnwnl of Juslire ainrnd at nw was very rlis­
turbing," Tozer told the !louse Judiciary Committee's panel lJn the Constitution on Thursday. "I feel I have been treated unfairly." 
At issue arn amendments to the federal Fair lluusing Act enacted in 1988, whfrh imposed min.imum standards for the di>sign of some apart­ment buildings, subcommit­ter. Chairman Charles 
assumed they could begin building and remained unaware of additional requirements in federal law. 
"Traditionally, it has been the industry practice for architects and builders to rely on local building code authorities for assurances of legal cumplinnce," Canady said. 
A bill introduced by Rep. 
Canady, R-Fla., said. 
"Companies that broke
Tho arnond­
111 n n ts the law by refusing to required build accesible housing that newly 
do not deserne a 'Get out
constructed 
ofjail free' card. '' 
multifamily housing have fea­Christopher Anders tures that ACLU lawyer
would makt~ il accessible to people with disabilities. the date on 
Walter Jones, R­N.C., would exempt buildflrs from prose­cution if their build­ings were designed for occupancy after March 13, 1991 ­
which the 
Canady said the govern­ment didn't do enough to make sure that builders, archite-cts and onginoers know about Urn changes. 
ConsBqunntly, builders who rrH'.<•iv<•d building rrnrmits from local governments changes became effective ­hut before the day the Jones bill would go into effect. 
To qualify, a builder would have had to rnceived a build­ing permit or another type of approval from local authori­ties. 


If our delicious, flame-broiled double cheeseburger were any bigger, we'd need to buy more ad space. 
NlJti1111g lx:,1ts our h1g, iu11..:y Double Chccschurgcr. It's got the i:!reat C1Sll' of flame broiling zi.nJ h:1~ 75 l'¾i 11)1 JI\' beer than 1\·k I )(1n:ikl',:' ( :hel·~ehurg,'r. 


House approves spending bill 
been doing and claiming that 
Associated Press 
we and the Democrats were trying to spend the Social
WASIIINGTON 

Security surplus when they
Republicans pushed the last 

were spending it all along isand biggest spending bill of 
not helpful."
fiscal 2000 through the House Neither side, however, was 

on Thursday despite a 

ready to let the budget fight
promised 


produce a government shut­veto by 
down.
President 

So Congress sent Clinton a
Clinton, 

measure letting l'ederal agen­
even as 

cies function through Nov, 5
the presi­

as the two sides work throughdent aban­their differences.
d o n e d 

It was the third temporary
efforts to 

extension for agencies si nee 
over ha u I 

fiscal 2000 began on Oct. 1;
S o c i a l Hastert 

the second was set to expire
Security 

Friday night.
-• and Medicanl for the year. 
The Housr. vote was 424-2,
The spending measure, 

Senate passage was by voice
approvr.d on a near party-line 

vote, and Clinton's signature218-211 vote, also carries a wern expected quickly.
0.97 percent across-the-board 

Meanwhile, Clinton
cut in federal 11.gencies' bud-. 

acknowledged what has been
gets. 

a political fa.ct in Washington
Senate passage is expected for manyweeks: lhat his pro­early next weflk, the next step 

posals to extend the solvencyin a political dance that will 
lead to a Clinton veto and then intensified budget talks. 
Even so, Republicans clnimed a triumph as they moved toward finishing the last of the new fiscal year's 13 annual spending bills. They also rallied around twin themes -protecting Social Security and not boosting taxes -that they hope will propel them in next year's elections. 

"Today's vote is a victory for the American taxpayer and America's seniors," said House Speaker Dennis Hastert, as dozens of GOP lawmakers gathered on the Capitol's East Lawn. 
A four-piece jazz band played "Pennies from Heaven." 

"Mr. President, please make the responsible decision for American taxpayers and American seniors and sign this important bill into law," said Hastert, R-111. 
But Clinton stood ready to veto the measure because of the damage he said the spending cuts would inflict on defense, schools and other programs. He also objected that the GOP did not provide money he sought to help com­munities hire thousands of elementary school teachers. The president also joined con­gressional Democrats in insisting that Republicans already had violated their own pledge and were on track to spend billions in Social Security funds. 
"We're going to have to work together to get a budget that works," Clinton told reporters. 
"And all this s.ort of smoke and mirrors that they have 
Mon.-Sat. 5:00-10:00 p.m. Sun. Closed 
Hnnquet rooms availrtble 

of Medicaro and Social Security, and create a new Medicare prnscription drug benefit, would have to wait until next year. 
"l think they're making a big mistake," Clinton said of GOP opposition to handling those matters in Congress' few remaining weeks. Ile added, "We can come back to all that early next year." 
Overhauling Social Security and Medicare, the govern­ment's huge pension and health-care programs, have been a top Clinton priority. But the political and technical difficulties of revamping those programs, plus the enormous price tags, have made it diffi­cult for a bipartisan consen­sus to emerge. 
The spending bill the House approved Thursday contained $314 billion for education, labor and health programs for the new fiscal year and $429 million for the District of Columbia budget. 
It included more than Clinton wanted for the Job Corps and AIDS treatment, but less than he wants for substance abuse and pro­grams for the elderly. 
It was also stuffed with scores of home-district pro­jects, including $250,000 for a Philadelphia ballet school to serve poor children in south­ern New Jersey and $2.5 mil­lion to train construction workers in Fairbanks, Alaska. 
But in truth, the measure was all about a GOP effort to gain leverage in upcoming budget bargaining by letting them assert they had finished Congress' spending business without dipping into Social Security's surpluses. 
1218 tinronwciy West Mishawcika ( f'ra11ce.,co wns n 1'111,j<ii Nf) .for .10 years) 


page 12 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, October 29, 1999 

. 

0MPU5 
tv11NISTRY 

Dear Alumni & Friends, 
The staff of Campus Ministry extends an invitation to come together and celebrate the Eucharist this weekend. 
Navy Football Weekend October 30-31, 1999 
Saturday Vigil Masses Basilica 30 minutes after game Stepan Center 45 minutes after game 
Sunday Masses 
Basilica 8:00, 10:00 am & 11:45 am Sacred Heart 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 
9:30 & 11:00 am 

Friday, Oc:rober 29, l 999 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 13 

ANGLERS IN RESTAURANT (LOCATED INSIDE LUNKERS) ONE OF THE BEST RESTAURANTS IN MICHIANA! Dine a menu of unique or traditional food items while surrounded by 21 aquariums full offish! Watch a shark swim in our 1000 gallon coral reef tank. A truly unique dining experience you won't forget. ITS ALL HERE AT LUNKERS! ONLY 15 MINUTES FROM CAMPUS STRAIGHT UP ST RD 23 INTO MICHIGAN 
Bush misses another debate 
Asso,iatcd Press 
IIANOVEH. N.11. Tlrny can't go on mmiting like this. 
The l'ive Hcpublican presi­dential candidates who hav1~ ddrnted twicti in a week havPti't found much to argue about -except with the sixth man, whu wasn't there. Gov. Gnorgn W. Bush sent rngrnts. again, but said he looks for­ward to dnbnting Urn rost of the Hi~publican linld nnxl time, in Manclwstnr. on Ike. 2. 
"Perhaps in the f'uturn al a forum like this if wn r.all it a fund-raiser hn might show up." said Stevti Forhes, who is financing much of his cam­pai~n out of his own fortuno. 
Forb(is said hP was f'rustrat­nd that Busli wasn't al Dari mouth Collcgn l'or Thursday night's clnbatt', and hadn't been at a GOP candi­date forum last Friday, either. Rush went lo next-door Vermont !'or a fund-raising nvcnt that night. 
Noithcr rorum produced debate breakthroughs. Sen. ,John McCain. Forbes, conserv­ative activist Cary Bauer, com­mentator Alan Keyes and Sen. Orrin llatch made their points with litllc dispute. 
Hauor criticized Forbes' idnas on a flat tax to roplaco Urn income lax, but that was as tough as it got. 
Forbns took the only real shol at Bush, when a ques­tioner said she would have liked an opportunity to ask the front-runner whether nomina­tions should go to the highost bidder. Busl1 has far outruised the others. as he had out­polled them so far. 
111.l said he was frustrated, too. that the Texas governor 
wasn't there to answer. 
McCain, the candidate clos­est behind Bush, said after­ward that obviously he'd like to have everybody at such forums. "I'm sure he'll be coming and debating," McCain said, "... particularly since we're moving up so rapidly in the polls." 
Forbes had said earlier that Bush's absence "underscores that one candidate thinks he canplay by his own rules." 
But Bush didn't write the rulP,S for front-runners, one of' which is to avoid debate con­frontations with challengers for as long as possible. He has. And he apparently has decid­ed that time is almost up. 
McCain has narrowed the polling gap, gaining traction, he says, although he still trails by 12 to 16 points in the latest state surveys. Nol very close, but closnr. 

Movie town enjoys real life commerce 
Associated Press 
BUHKITTSVILLE, Md. 
The Blair Witch believers are 

har.k, just in time for 
Halloween. And this time, 
Burkittsville is ready. 
Last summer, curiosity seek­ers overran the startled west­P,rn Maryland haml.et where the hit hoax horror film, "The Blair Witch Project," is set. They snatched road and ceme­tery signs and vandalized tombstones, prompting a beefed-up police presence in the quiet farming community. 
Burkittsville has since wised 

up -and cashed in. 
With the movie's recent 

release on home video and 
Halloween this weekend, many 
of the 214 towns­
folk are embrac­
'Tm doing very "Why not'?" 
ing -rather than 
Up and down

bracing for -well, selling things 
Main Street ­

another wave of to the people who 
the only street,

what local artist 
want to have really -the Blair
Trude Head calls 
Witch has

"the Blair Witch something from the 
bncome a cottage

virus." witch town." 
industry, sup­
Roll into town 
ported by several 

on the narrow 
Internet sites and

Trude Head
road over densely 
a market expand­

wooded South Burkittsville native 
ing with the

Mountain and 
movie's interna­

you'll see a hand-lettered card­
tional release and video sales.
board sign, "WITCH STVFF," 
The movie purports to show 
on a telephone pole near Mrs. 
the final days of three student
Head's 200-year-old yellow 
filmmakers who vanish myste­
house. 
riously while traipsing through
Her sidewalk display offers 

the Black 1-Iills Forest to make
$7 versions of the rocks and 
a documentary on the leg­
stick-figure totems featured in 
endary witch of Blair.
the film, some crafted by Mrs. 
26324 US 12 East P.o. Box 246 Edwardsburg, Michigan 49112 616-663-3745 FAX 616-663-8178 WEB www.lunkersonline.com 
Head's granddaughter. A few dollars more buy a good-luck Blair Witch spell or a ''witch­chaser" bag filled with smooth stones, garlic cloves and laven­der sprigs. 
"It's play," she said, smiling brightly. 'Tm doing very well, selling things to the people who want to have something from the witch town." 
So is Margaret Kennedy, a painter and gallery owner whose sales have zoomed since she started selling Blair Witch T ~shirts and totems to tourists from around the world. Her photographer friend Warren Morrow doesn't even live in Burkittsville but he made some stick figures, too. 
"I was trying to get a little 
cash from the 
movie," he said. 

VIEWPOINT 
page 14 OBSERVER Friday, October 29, 1999 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Norre Dame, JN 46556 024 South Oining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Michelle Krupa 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
M. Shannon Ryan  David Rogero  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  
Laura Petelk  

NEWS EDITOR: Tim Logan VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughcn SPORTS EDITOR: Brian Kessler 
SCENE EDITOR: Michael Vanegas SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Dalum 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Btyan Lurz 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Bret Huelat SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kushto 
CONTROLLER: Timothy Lane GRAPHICS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0.............. 631-7471 FAx.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING ..................................... 631-6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................ 631-4542 MANAGING EDITORiAsST. ME....................631-454! BUSINESS OFFICE........................................ 631-5313 NEWS......................... .................................631-5323 
observer.obs news.l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.. ...............................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. J@nd.edu SPORTS.................. . . .... . ..... . ..................631-4 543 observer.sporrs. I@nd.edu SCENE. ....................................................... 631-4540 ohserver.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S ............................................ 631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................ 631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB AoMINISTRATORS................. 631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://obseroer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associared Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for
weather for up-to-the 
weekly student reviews
minuce forccascs 
online features for spe­
advertise for policies 
cial campus coverage 
and rares ofprint ads 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published afi:er 
to meet che edicors and 
staff
Augusc 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by che scudents ofthe University ofNocre Dame du Lac and Saint Macy's College. Editorial content is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. Acting as pub­lisher ofThe Observer, the administration of the University of Notre Dame du Lac prohibits the adver­tisement of alcohol and The Observer's acceptance of advertisemems from specified types ofgroups. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. · 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefMichelle Krupa. 


Academic freedom safe with Ex Corde 
In November, the United States bish­ops will consider an Application of the norms of Ex Corde Ecclesiae. the 1990 Apostolic Constitution on Catholic Universities. Notre Dame and other uni­versities have reservations about the Application as a threat to their "institutional autonomy." The universities claimed that autonomy in their 1967 Land O' Lakes statement: 'To perform its teaching and research functions effectively the Catholic university must have a true autonomy and aca­demic freedom in the face of authority of whatever kind, lay or clerical, external to the academic community itself." 
The autonomy issue is raised by the Application's insistence, as required by· canon law, that "Catholics who teach the theological disciplines in a Catholic university are required to have a man­datum granted by ecclesiastical author­ity. The mandatum is an acknowledg­ment that a Catholic professor of a the­ological discipline teaches within the full communion of the Catholic Church. [It] is not an appointment or approba­tion of one's teaching by Church authorities. The mandatum recognizes the professor's commitment to teach authentic Catholic doctrine and to refrain from putting forth as Catholic teaching anything conu;.w:y to the Church's magisterium." ft is the responsibility of the professor, not the university, to seek the mandatum. In America last January, Notre Dame's prnsident, Father Edward A Malloy, C.S.C., and Father J. Donald Monan, S.J., former president of Boston College, objected that the mandatum would be granted by an authority "external to the university" and said "Catholic universities will take no steps to implement it because of its obvious threat to academic freedom." 


In the Spring 1999 Journal of College and University Law, Father James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C., said, "The presidents [of the Catholic universities] have evi­dently not realized the absurdity of their repeated claim that no outside authority could hold their institutions answerable." 
Father Burtchaell listed 55 "external authorities or agencies" to which a typi­cal Catholic university "is answerable for her various standards," including federal depart.ments and agencies, accrediting bodies, the NCAA and so on. Nor is it accurate, as Father Richard Warner, C.S.C., said in the current Notre Dame Magazine, that "none of these agencies demand or require that individuals hired by institutions be sub­ject to their prior approval." Try hiring an illegal alien for the faculty, and you could have an uncomfortable accredita­tion review if you hired a disbarred attorney for the law faculty. The uni­versities accept mandates from secular authorities but they reject a limited oversight by the Church. To arcept the right of the Church to define what it means to be Catholic would conflict with the political correctness which, perhaps second only to the cult of the money god, is the dominant religion of the American Academy. What would they think of us at Princeton and Harvard if we let the pope tell us what it means to be a "Catholic" university? The movers and shakers in the "Catholic" universities resist the defini­tion of that term by the pope, who has the ultimate legal and moral authority to define it. Instead. they define it according to their own private judg­ment, as Protestants would. 
The universities emphasize Ex Corde's impact on faculty and adminis­tration. But students also have a stake in a prompt implementation of' Ex Corde. "Catholic students," said the Application, "have a right to receive from a university instruction in authen­tic Catholic doctrine and practice Courses in Catholic doctrine and prac­tice should be made available to all stu­dents." A similar point was made by the Notre Dame Student Union Board in its October report to the Trustees. The Board noted that pre-college "theologi­cal education has degenerated to mak­ing collages rather than concentrating upon the hasic elements of the faith. There is little understanding of the faith 
in successive classes of students. We 
recommend as a first course a modified form of cathechesis, a serious study of Catholic dogma and doctrine, so that students can gain the perspective that they have so far not had available. 
"Students at Notre Dame want and need an introductory course that shows them what we believe and why because no one has taken the time so far to give most of the students this foundation so essential to pursuing fruitful Catholic theology in the future." 
This important interest of the stu­dents, recognized by both the Application and the Student Union, is obscured by our leaders' focus on pro­tecting their own turf by rejecting even the modest and cooperative effort of the Application to recall the universities to a "Catholic" identity. Our leaders mean well. But they seem more concerned about the sensitivities of complaining faculty -who want to teach their own brand of Catholicism as if it were the real thing -than they are about the rights of tuition-paying students who are entitled to truth in labelling. 
Professor Rice is on the lau• school faculty. His column appears every other Friday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 


--_:_:-_:-_:-_:-_:-_:-_:-_:-_:-_:-_:-_:-_:-_:_:-_:-_:-_:_:-_:_:-_:---Er-::=======:::===:::::-7jr--,_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_::--. I'D LIKE TO ENROLL ~ TAKE OUT YOUR. QUESTION ONE: IN DOGBER.T'S j CHECKBOOK AND i WHAT IS TODAY'S 
ACCELERATED t====i::::::J i 
BEGIN YOUR. FINAL ~ DATE? MANAGEMENT I 
0 
D 
E 
0 
0 
t:: 
CII 
.c 
'O 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"We make war that we may live in peace. " 
Aristotle Greek philosopher 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

Friday, October 29, 1999 BSERVER page 15 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Stigmatizing alienates 

eating disorder victims 
I am writing in rnsponse to Ms. Koch's letter in the Oct. <, issue of Tim Observer. I commend Ms. Koch and Mr. Hagerty for their willingness to take on an issue as complex and overwlwlming as eating disorders. I, too, am in agrecnwnt with the letters that have linen published thus far cot1­cerning this subject. Notre Dame does severely lack any sort of cf'foctivc offense in eating disor­der mlucation and treatment. 
llowever, I strongly urge Ms. Koch and Mr. llagerty to better educate thcmsnlves on the topic. Comments made in Ms. Koch's article wern ignorant. People who suffer from eating disorders live their lives in a manner that they feel will please others and make everyone around them feel most coml'ortable. Simply stated, every­one else's feelings and needs dominaln, not allowing the person suffering from tho eating disorder to b1! aware of his or her needs. 
It was very detrimental of Ms. Koch lo make her lirst priority tlrn crnation of a "zero toliirunce environment" where there is no place for "solf-delilement." By suggesting that pnople who suffer from eating disorders make the environnwnt intolerable !'or oth­ers, Ms. Koch is further stigmatiz­ing and alienating a group of young men and women who emo­tionally battm· themselves every day. In her lettnr, she tnld a group of peopln who will go to any length to please others and make otlwrs comfortable ihai tlrnir v,iry presnnce and "solf­dngraclation" creates nn unpllms­anl nnvironment. 
I havo suffen•d from an caling disorder for more than eight ymirs. I never recall making com­mnnls in public lik1l "I am so fat" or "I look like a whale." I even clwckcd it out with mv roommate or thrno years. and sh() never heard me say llwsu things. I, and othnrs who suff'or l'rom nating dis­ordNs, may foe) that way and think ihosn t.ho11ghl.s l 00 pcrnml. of' the linw, but it is a W!ry private and S(!t:rctive disnaso. Thereforn, most 1mople arn ashanwd of' those l'e()!ings and do not profess Uwm to anyone. 
It also gcH's back to that wlrnln uncomfortable idea. Don't you think that I realize that I would make people uncomfortable by saying such things? Please don't advise people to "be brave and let people know that it makes you to be subject to their self-degrada­tion." That is another sure-fire way to leave the victim feeling alienated and isolated. 
I have been in treatment for my eating disorder for more than six months now. With every step for­ward, 1take three steps back. I wish it were as easy as "adopting a more positive self-image." I have an unbelievably strong sup­port system made up of family and friends who constantly remind me of my worth. 
Yet, an eating disorder goes so much deeper than that. It is something that most people will never understand; I know that I don't understand it and I live it every minute of the day. What I do know, however, is that the dis­order is not just about food and weight, but rather manifests itself through these avenues. It is about feelings, needs and self-worth, and until people understand that, nothing will be successful in com­bating this deadly disease. 
Ms. Koch and Mr. Hagerty, again I sincerely thank you for your efforts and I offer my help to you if you would like it. I have no doubt that you have the best intentions. However, l beg you to better educate yourselves. I believe that you could accomplish a great deal with the right infor­mation. · 
Very few people know that I suffer from an eating disorder. I was planning on writing this let­ter anonymously, but I think that it. is better for all involved if l accept Ms. DeetN's challenge to break tho silence of eating disor­ders. Also, my heart goAs out to the male freshman whose letter appeared in the Oct. 6 issue. I know how you can get help if you would like it; please e-mail me. 
Michele Visnosky 
Senior Off-Cimpus October 28, l 999 

Rand advertisement inconsistent with policy 
Editor's Note: The Notre Dame adminis­tration, not The Observer. has set forth a policy prohibiting The Observer from accepting adtJertisements from groups that espouse principles contrary to the moral teachings ofthe Catholic Church, specifical­ly GALA-ND/SMC. The Obserner does not rhoose this policyfor itself 
It is my understanding that The Observer has a policy against printing advertise­ments from groups advocating views con­trary to the teaching of the Church. I was therefore astounded to see an ad in today's Observer from the Ayn Rand Institute, an organization devoted to proselytizing for tho "objectivist" philosophy of its name­sake. It is hard to imagine a set of values and philosophical beliefs morn opposed to Lhose of the Catholic Chrislian faith than those of this "objectivist" philosophy. Yet The Observer has printed an ad whose aim is to win converts in the Notre Dame com­munity to this belief. 
A brief visit to the website mentioned in The J)bserver ad will show that according to Rand: "Faith, as such, is extremely detri­mental to human life: it is the negation of reason." Rand's rejection of God results, as Saint Augustine would have predicted, in an ethical system which elevates the indi­vidual human being to the status of God, the source of all value, and treats Pride, which Augustine identified as the root of all evil, as a virtue: "The standard of value of the Objectivist ethics -the standard by which one judges what is good or evil -is man's life ... The three cardinal values of the Objectivist ethics -tho throe values which, together, arc the means to and thP realization of one's ultimate value, one's own life -are: Reason, Purpose, Self­Estcem, with their three corresponding virtues: Rationality, Productiveness, Pride." 
As to that greatest of Christian virtues. charity, Rand says: "My views on charity arc very simple. I do not consider it a major virtue and, above all, I do not consider it a moral duty. There is nothing wrong with helping other people, if and when they are worthy of the help and you can afford to help them. I regard charity as a marginal issue. What I am fighting is the idea that charity is a moral duty and a primary virtue." 
There is no question here of the thought that all others, as children of God. are equally worthy of our care and concern. I could go on, but anyone can visit the web­site and see for themselves. 
Given that the objectivist ad was printed in The Observer, I see only two possible conclusions: Either the administration's censors were napping, or in fact there is only a ban against groups who say the wrong things on certain very specific issues much less clearly central to the faith than the issues on which ·Rand and the objec­tivists disagree with lhe Church's teaching. 
Michael Kremer Associate Professor of Philosophy October 28, 1999 

Celebrate Saint Marcellus 
One of the really wacky an~ cool things service that men are compelled to sacrifice that Catholics do that sets them apart from to the gods and emperors, then behold, I other Christians is that they venerate the throw away the staff and belt; I renounce actual bones of saints. Emphasizing the the standards and refuse to serve." physicality nf the body of the saint reminds While imprisoned, he was interrogated by the community that the glory of God is his commander regarding the ,reason not beyond history, but among us ----for his rebellion. Marcellus 
and ever present in the lives of those around us. Veneration of relics, as the bones are 
· called, is part of a: tradi­tion which dates back to the early days of Catholicism. 
Beginning in the second century, Eucharist was cel­
ebrated at the graves of martyrs on their feast days. Eventually churches were built over the graves of mar­tyrs and from this practice the tradition of plac­ing relics beneath a church's altar emerged. By the 

l~r=~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::i·I of Saint Marcellus 
at 5:15 in the 

sixth century mar­tyrs' bones were required to be placed 
in the altar stone. 


In 1847, father Sorin arranged to have the bones of Saint Marcellus seni to Notre Dame for the altar stone in the Bascillica. Marcellus, a Roman centurion, was martyred in 298 A.D. for refusing to wor­ship the false gods of the Empire. At the emperor's birthday party, he refused to par­ticipate in offering sacrifices to the gods and threw down his military arms in front of the Legion. "I serve Jesus Christ the everlasting King," he said. "ffsuch be the conditions of 
answered him. "I am a Christian, and I am unable to adhere to the military oath of allegiance, but rather serve Jesus Christ, thP Son of the almighty God the Father." Marcellus was exe­cuted for his resis­tance on Oct. 30th, 1,701 years ago. Today, there will be a memorial mass to celebrate the life and death 

Basillica with Hov. Michael J. Baxter, 
C.S.C. presiding. We gather to remember thP con1­
geous life of a man 
who said, "It is not 
fitting for a Christian man who serves Christ the Lord to serve human 

powers." We gather to remind ourselves of the times when we have put human powers above our God, and to recommit ourselves to live our lives as if Christ wore truly king. 
Sheila McCarthy Elizabeth Moriarty Juniors Oft~Campu, October 28, I 999 


MARY CALASH/The Observer 

Scene asks the Notre Dame community one of the most important questions asked on Notre Dame football weekends. No, not 'Wheres the closest restroom?' Whats the best photo opportunity at Notre Dame? 

"The Dome. {It's an] easi­ly recognizable spot, [and an] area that has hardly changed since I was a freshman." 
Robert Williamson professor 


"The Dome. The Dome is us. flt isl traditional Notre Dame." 
John Affleck-Graves professor 


'There's no better feeling than looking up from a book to see the sun setting over Stonehenge with the Dome and Basilica in the background." ' 
John Micek junior class president, Keough Hall 
w E 
ceneN D 
O
THE 

Friday, October 29, 1999 BSERVER page 17 



Pholo poll by MARY CALASH/The Observer 
"[The} lakes. because in the summer, you can see the moon sreflection. " 
JoAnna Bowen iunior, off-campus 
"The lakes with the geese, ducks and herons ... The view is just gorgeous." 
Fred Cartwright South Bend resident 



MARY CALASH/Tha Observer 
"I like the Grotto because it is my quiet place that I can escape to when things in my life become difficult. The Grotto basically captures the peace ofmind that I feel when I go there." 
Jen Steffel senior, Welsh Family Hall 


MARY CALASH/The Observer 
"My favorite place to take pictures is at the big ND flowerbed on Notre Dame Avenue and Angela, because the flowers are a beautiful, colorful background." 
Taffee Cardemas junior, Breen-Phillips 


MARY CALASH/The Observer 

"J like the mighty presence of our library and Touchdown Jesus. It is a campus trademark and symbolizes the reign ofChrist at our 

I> 4.-.· .•,....
university." 
Liberty Balbort senior, Welsh Family Hall 
.. 


....  
~ M  If  "'  ..  
t•..,..  .  • ..  
'  ...  
~  
.,..• ......,  ,.;,  e'  ". ­ ,.  

MARY CALASH/The Observer 
PGA 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON 
The skirl of a lone bagpipe playing the Scottish lament "Going Home» cut through ghostly fog in a chilling tribute to Payne Stewart before the start of the Tour Championship on Thursday. 
With sullen faces and vacant eyes, Stewart's peers on the PGA Tour sat on white folding chairs on the first tee of Champions Golf Club to honor his memory at the tournament where he was to have played. 
"He loved to laugh and he was not ashamed to cry. I'm not going to be ashamed of my tears this morning, and neither should you," Tom Lehman said. "When he died on Monday. a big part ofus died. too." 
Stewart, a winner of 18 tournaments around the world and three major champi­onships, was as traditional in his knickers and tam o'shanler as the game itself. That spirit lived on in a service that showcased golfs roots. 
Shrouded by an eerie fog, the bagpiper walked 100 yards toward the first tee play­ing a song about a Scotsman finally return­ing to his homeland. 
"It was beautiful," Tim Herron said. "The bagpipes drew you inl.o Payne Stewart. When you think of bagpipes, you think of Payne." 
Stewart was traveling to Texas to play in the Tour Championship when his plane crashed. Killed with Stewart were his agents, Robert Fraley and Van Ardan; pilots Michael Kling and Stephanie Bellegarrigue; and Bruce Borland, one of Jack Nicklaus' golf course designers. 
Not every one was convinced the tour should have proceeded with the tournament, but PGA Tour commissioner Tim Finchern was among those who said it could be a plat­

... form to honor Stewart. 
-----------------------~----~---~------------------------,.
~ 

-
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, October 29, 1999 
Players remember Stewart at Tour Championship 
"We are sti.ll in shock, 72 hours after the terrible plane crash on Monday took from us one of our great champions," Finchem said_ "Payne represented the best of golf. He was a man of great faith. a devoted, compassion­ate and most energetic husband and father, and a man of tremendous generosity." 
Players hugged each other as they left the service and headed past the practice green, where Duffy Waldorf was getting ready for the first tee time in the Tour Championship, the $5 million event for the top 30 moncy­winners. 
It was a startling reminder that there was golf to be played. 
"That's not the way you plan to start any round of golf," Waldorf said after finishing 27 holes in 2.-under-par. Because Stewart's death left only 29 players in the field, Waldorf played alone. 
Bob Estes used his putter for the first shot of the tournament, rapping it about 15 feet -the length of that historic putt Stewart made in June to win the U.S. Open. 
"That's for you, Payne," he said. Estes wound up with a double bogey. 
Lehman considered not playing this week because his mind was not on golf', but then Finchem asked him to offer a prayer at the service Thursday morning. After a few remarks, Lehman prayed for comfort for Stewart's wife and two children, and thfl families of the other victims. 
"I was up all night ... worrying about com­pletely collapsing and not being able to blub­ber a word," Lehman said. "I think it's appropriate that we had that service." 
The players bowed their heads or stared into space as he spoke. 
After a moment of silence, the bagpiper, Steve Agan of Houston, played "Amazing Grace." 
Then he turned and walk back down the fairway, again playing "Going Home." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Noue Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

EARN FREE TRIPS AND CASH!!!  Free One Bedroom Apartment near  4-6 student rental houses. Lots of  
NOTICES  SPRING BREAK 2000 "CANCUN* *JAMAICA*  Campus  extras. Huge Party Room. Washer/Dryer, etc.  TICKETS  PERSONAL  
For 1 o years Class Travel  A family with three children seeks  Dave 291-2209.  
THE COPY SHOP  International (CTI) has distin­ fun.energetic student or graduate to  WANTED NOTRE DAME  Spring Break 2000 Free Trips &  
Lafortune Student Center  guished itself as the most reliable  live in charming apartment for  STUDENTS WANTED! Alum.  FOOTBALL TICKETS  M e a I s  
PHONE 631-COPY  student event and marketing orga­ FREE in exchange for mutually  owned 2 sty. 5bdrm 2bath new car­ Jamaica,Cancun,Bahamas,Barbad  
www.CopyShopND.com  nization in North America  agreeable babysitting responsibili­ pet, kit_ appl., security, furnace,  271-1526  os,Florida,Padre.Book now for Free  
Store Hours  Motivated Reps can go on Spring  ties.Fax name.phone # and brief  roof. Huge yd., 1 blk. N. of club 23.  Meals & 2 Free Trips.Book before  
Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight  Break FREE & earn over  note describing experience and  $1125/ inc. utilities. -also 4/5 bdrm  SELL & BUY GA FOOTBALL  Dec. 17 for LOWER PRICES!!  
Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm  $$$$$ $10,000! $$$$$  interests to Walker at 233-2308.  2 blks from campus $800. for  TICKETS  1800-426-771 0  
Sat: Noon-6:00pm  more info call 289-4365.  277-6619  www.sunsplashtours.com  
Sun: Noon-Midnight  Contact Us today for details!  Roseland Animal Hospital is now  
8001328-1509  hiring part-time Ward Assist_ants for  FOR SALE  Funky GOURDS  
•  LOST & FOUND  www.classtravelintl.com  evening & weekends. If interested, please send resume & handwritten  WALK TO SCHOOL http://mmmrentals.homepage.com  Navy & BCtix  Three tor a dollar!!  
letter to: Roseland Animal Hospital,  232-2595 or  Best Prices  Fun imaginative shapes ...... .  
Lost: earring, silver and amethyst,  Now hiring for evenings  424 Dixieway N. So.Bend, IN  mmm.rentals@aol.com  
sentimental value. Oct. 13 between  and weekends.  46637.  AM -232-2378  GREAT SUMMER INTERNSHIP!  
DeBartolo, stadium parking lot. and  MOLLY MCGUIRE'S COFFEE  Two roommates/ hot chicks wanted  PM -288-2726  with Whitewater Rafting Company  
Decio, 233-8672  HOUSE 287-6966 Karen  FOR RENT  for 8 bedroom house next year. Call 4511 for info. Dorks welcome!!  ELTON JOHN tix for sale.  owned by ND grad. Learn about operating a small business. entre­ 
AM -232-237~  preneurship & setting business  
WANTED  '*'ACT NOW!CALL FOR THE  ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE  Sublessor needed for Spring 2000.  PM -288-2726  strategy. Lots of fun on the river  
BEST SPRING BREAK  HOME FOR ND-SMC EVENTS.  2 Bdrm Apt.  too!!  
FREE TRIPS AND CASH!I!  PRICES!SOUTH PADRE,CAN­ VERY CLOSE. TO CAMPUS.  ONLY $450/mnth!!  BUYING and SELLING N D FOOT­ Business major preferred but not  
SPRING BREAK 2000  CUN,JAMAICA,BAHAMAS,ACA­ 243-0658.  Must Lease!  BALL TICKETS.  required.  
PULCO,FLORIDA & MARDI  Call 247-1731  GREAT PRICES.  Email Andy at:  
StudentCity.com is looking for  GRAS.REPS NEEDED ... TRAVEL  THAT PRETTY PLACE,  anachman@yahoo.com  
Highly Motivated Students to pro­ FREE.EARN $$$.DISCOUNTS  Bed and Breakfast Inn has space  CALL 289-8048  
mote Spring Break 2000!  FOR 6+.  available for football/parent wknds_  FOR SALE  Group interview Friday, 10129, at 3  
Organize a small group and travel  5 Rooms with private baths, $80­ FOR SALE  pm in 204 St. Ed's Hall.  
FREE!ITop campus  800-838-8203  $115, Middlebury, 30 miles from  Spring Break Specials!Bahamas  N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS  
reps can earn a Free Trip & over  WWW .LEISURETOURS.COM  campus. Toll Road Exit #107, 1­ Party Cruise 5 Days $279! Includes  STUDENT WORK  
$10,000IChoose Cancun,  800-416-9487.  Meals!  CALL 271-9412  Vector Marketing Corp. is now filling  
Jamaica or Nassau!  loving ND-SMC couple wishes to  Awesome  pit cust. sales & service positions.  
Book Tnps On-Line.  adopt.Wilt provide a lifetime of  Reserve tor the 2000 Football  Beaches,NightlifelCancun &  WANTED: 4 Tenn. Tix  Flex. around class.  
Log In and win FREE stuff  laughter,love.devotion and opportu­ Season & Special Occasions,  Jamaica 7 Nights From $399!  Transfers avail. over breaks.  
nities.  Bedroom Suite w/Ejath. Private  F L o i d a  312-951-5008  $10.55 base-appt. Good resume  
Sign Up Now On Linet  Entry, 760 SF New Construction  $ 129!springbreaktravel.com  exp. scholarships awarded. cond.  
www.StudentCity.com or  800·484-4699 code 0019  above Garage. Just 30 min. from  1-800-678-6386  ND student needs Navy tickets for  apply.  
8001293-1443  ND, 1 mi. off US 31S, in county.  friends!  call mon-wed 12:30-5:30pm  
To our 4am inquirer: all info kept in  219-291-3771.  FOR SALE  Please call Vince  282-2357  
Browse icpt.com for Springbreak  total confidence.Please call back  email: moby77@tir.com  N.D. FOOTBALL TIX  243-9361  
"2000". ALL destinations ottered.  anytime.Our prayers are with you.  CALL 271-9412  I like traffic lights_  
Trip Participants.Student Orgs &  HOUSES HOUSES HOUSES  2 NAVY Tix For Sale  
Campus Sales Reps  EASY MONEY  DOM US PROPERTIES HAVE  FOR SALE  HeyErin,  
wanted Fabulous parties.hotels &  Looking for BABYSITTER for twin  AVAILABLE 5,6,7,8 & 10-BDRM  N_D_ FOOTBALL TIX  Face Value 634-3074  whatsup. I 'msorrywedidntgettotalk­ 
prices.  first graders. Every Monday and  HOUSES FOR THE '00-01  CALL 271-9412  tonight. lsn'tthisannoyingthatlamnot  
Tuesday, 3-5:15 pm. Must have  SCHOOL YEAR. ONLY 15 LEFT.  ELTON JOHN TICKETS  puttingspacesbetweenthewords.lsit  
Call Inter-Campus 800-327-6013  car  CALL 274-1501 OR 234-2436,  Phone Cards 669min. $20  hardtoreadatall?  
Call 273-3083  ASK FOR KRAMER TO SHOW.  243-9361 or 258-4805  272-7233 GOOD SEATS ..... .  Bye!  


Friday, October 29, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL PLAYOFFS 
Pasquerilla East starts quest for title against Howard 
Hy STEVE KEPPEL  Ducks have lost their last three games and haven't been playing  have been a perennial playoff team, winning the championship  
Spores Writer  up to their potential. This is  the past two seasons. Fifth-year  
mainly because of the loss of  senior quarterback Plummer  
l'asquoril!a East will take the  their starting quarterback and  has become a sort of legend in  
first stlip on its journey back Lo  team leader Jill Veselik.  interhall football. ln ihe past  
Lh<• stadium Sunday as the l'yros  Vesnlik went down with a  four years she has led her teams  
take on tlrn Howard Ducks in  knee injury during the first half  to three championship appear­ 
Llrn lirst round or tlw women·s  of lloward's game against Badin  ances. Her arm strength and  
inlnrlrnll playoffs  narlier in the year. The injury  scrambling ahility have made  
Both loams arc coming off  turned ouL lo be Lhe turning  her a nightmare for defenses  
Lough ganrns from heforn fall  point in the Ducks· season. They  throughout the league.  
llrc\ak. l'E squeaked by Lyons 6­ arc 0-3 without her in the start­ Tht1 Pyros also have many  
0 in its last rogular snason  ing lineup.  returning players from last  
gamn. It was the !'irst lime all  "We started off great and limn  year's team.  
year lhal the powerful  went downhill." Howard wide  "Our defense is very experi­ 
Pasquerilla olfonse was lwlcl to  receiver and captain Julie  enced and all our seniors played  
just o,rn touchdown.  Wernick said. "She !Jill] was the  last year." Plummer said. "On  
"Wn die.In 't adjust wnll i11 the  catalyst of our team, and we are  offense this year we are still  
Lyons gamn; our timing was  hoping she will be back."  strong but we focus a little more  
off," quartr.rback Elizabeth  It is still uncertain if Vcsolik ··  on our receivers than in the  
l'lummnr said. "I lopel'ully we've  will play in Sunday's game.  past."  
irotwd out tlw kinks."  The advantage of playoff  I-Inward. unlike PE, didn't  
llowarcl is also struggling late­ expcrinnce in this game goes to  make the playofls last year and  
ly. /\ft1w starting off :-3-0, tlw  l',tsqunrilla East. The Pyros  has a relatively young team. But  

A perfect meeting place throughout the weekend. 
Open Friday and Saturday D.1ring ND. Home Football Weekends. 
Evetyone Welcome 
Live Music Grilled Burgers. Brats , and Other Specialties 
Cold Beverages & Spirits 60" Screen TV's Full;' Enclosed Tent 
ext to the N.D. Bookstore. 219-631-2000 

Spectrum Sports Sale ~-"'41,
"'Clfl~ 
"Officially Licensed" 
~r,{o,. ct4 
Notre Dame Products ' 
At 
Logan Center 

-Super Specials­"'*Selected ND Sweatshirts $19.95 (Reg. $49.95) With Purchase** **Selected ND T-Shirts $9.95 (Reg. $24.95) With Purchase** 
Other Football Weekend Specials Was Special $124.95
Champion Varsity Leather Jacket... ........... (Awesome Deal).... $299.95 
$ 9.95

Selected ND Hats .................(These Go Fastl)........... ...... $ 24.95 $ 29.95
ND Button Down Dress Shirt... .......... {Khaki, Navy)................ $ 59.95 
$ 49.95

Hooded ND Jacket with Fleece Lining..........(Full Front Zip) .... $ 89.95 
-Check Out the Great Selection of Notre Dame Products · at the Logan Center-
Gloves, Banners. Golf Items, Jewlery, Kids and Toddler Items, Helmets, Footballs, Signed Collectivles by Montana, Holtz, Rice, Mayes, Brown, Hornung, and many othe licensed Notre Dame Items 
Special Hours For NAVY Weekend 
Friday Oct. 29th, 9:00 a.m.-9:00 p.m. Saturday Oct. 30th, 8:00 a.m. until 1:30 p.m. 
*Logan Center loccrted south of the stadium at the corner of Eddy and Juniper *Free gifts to first 5'0 purchases-compliments of Spectrum Sports (309-786-9318) 


the Ducks have been working hard to be ready for this game. 
"We have been practicing all week," Wernick said. "We have· adjusted our defense in prepa­ration for Plummer and their offense." 
Tht1 Ducks, seeded seventh, see themselves in a no-lose situ­ation. 
"We arc playing the underdog role here and we are going to play hard and see what happens -sec if we can pull an upset," Wernick said. 
Pasquerilla East looks to come 
Dining 

out strong aftnr its last perfor­mance. 
"We arc just going to go out and do our thing," Plummer said. "We arc going to continue doing what works for us and it is going to take one hundred perct1nt by t1veryone to pull it off." 
-

Both teams are ready to play after a good week of practice. lloward, howt1ver, will have to rely on the possibility of Veselik coming back from her knee injury if the Ducks expect to upset the Pyros. 
THE NEW TRADITION 
South Bend's newest Italian Restaurant Fresh Prepared Dinners, Pizza, Beverages 
Quoted as 'The Best Italian Restaurant in the area". 
Try us after the game 
Reservations Recommended 
Located Downtown South Bend ----------~--~-.T~ 
235 S, Midugan St. 2S!HOO0 Dial Phone Appetit, 67 4-0900 Category 8466 for more info 

HAIR MODELS NEEDED 
For Monday's Training Program by Licensed Professionals. 
Call for Information. 289-5080 

.... ... 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, October 29, 1999 
NBA 

Marbury scores 30, leads New Jersey over Ne-w York 
Associated Press 
HARTFORD, Conn. 
Stephon Marbury scored 30 points to lead the New Jersey Nets to a 106-103 overtime vic­tory over the New York Knicks 0011 Thursday night at the Hartford Civic Center. 
Keith Van Horn had 28 points and 14 rebounds for the Nets. Johnny Newman added 18 points, including four 3-poinl­ers. while Kendall Gill had 13. 
Allan Houston led the Knicks with 22 points, and Kurt Thomas and Marcus Camby had 21 points each. Camby also had 14 rebounds. 
The Nets, who scored the game's first two points, did not lead again until 3:06 remained, when Marbury passed to Jason Feick for a layup. 
He was fouled, and the free throw gave the Nets a 96-94 lead. 
Houston tied the game at 97 by hitting one of two free throws with 43 seconds left in regula­tion. 
Marbury stoic the ball with 33 seconds to go, but missed a jumper with 4.3 seconds left, sending the game to overtime. 
The Nets, up 103-101, clinched the victory on a 3­pointer by Lucious Harris with just under 14 seconds remain­ing in overtime. 
The Knicks jumped out to a 13-point lead in the second quarter and led 57-49 at the

.. 
half. They led by 10 points five times in the third quarter. 
Pistons 112, Magic 100 
Michael Curry scored 20 points and Jerry Stackhouse had 13 as the Detroit Pistons fin­ished their preseason schedule with a victory over the Orlando Magic. 
The Pistons shot 65 percent to build an 11-point first-quarter lead. The closest the Magic got the rest of the game was seven early in the second period. 
Rookie Corey Maggette led Orlando with a preseason-high 17 points on 7 -for-10 shooting. 
Matt Harpring and Michael Doleac each scored 10. Curry was 5-of-8 from the 
field, made all 10 of his free throws and finished with eight assists in 24 minutes. 
Marcus Brown added 11 points and Jerome Williams had 10 for the Pistons, who led 53­45 at halftime before increasing the lead to 21 after three quar­ters. 
Orlando's starting backcourt of Darrell Armstrong and Tariq Abdul-Wahad contributed to the Magic's shooting woes by going 5-for-21. 
Armstrong missed eight of 11 shots before being ejected for arguing with an official with 
9:26 remaining in the third quarter. 
Grant Hill played 12 minutes in the first half and scored eight points for Detroit. 
Both teams finished the pre­season 6-2. 
Nuggets 92, Raptors 87 
Chauncey Billups scored 14 of his 15 points in the fourth quar­ter as the Denver Nuggets beat the Toronto Raptors in the final exhibition game for both teams. 
Billups, who played briefly for the Raptors two years ago, came off the bench to score nine straight points midway through the fourth quarter. 
Dell Curry brought Toronto within three points with a 3­pointer with 2:30 remaining, but Billups clinched the game with a 3-pointer to give Denver a 88-82 lead. 
The Raptors came within three with 12.6 seconds go on Vince Carter's layup, but Billups made two free throws after being fouled. 
The Nuggets acquired Billups in a three-way deal with Minnesota and Toronto. The Rap tors thought Billups wasn't an inconsistent shooter and unsuited for the point guard position. 
Raef LaFrentz had 14 points and eight rebounds for the Nuggets. 
Vince Carter, last year's rook­ie of the year, led all scorers with 27 points. He also had 10 rebounds. 
Toronto center Kevin Willis was ejected from the game in the fourth quarter. Willis was 


: s4.so All Shows Before 6 pm • Advance Ticket Sales Available :J b, 
All Times for OcL 29th-Nov. 1st Sat., Fri, Sat, Sun & MON Matinees in [Brackets] 
: Haunting of Hill H~R)  Digital  
[2:30] 5:00 7:30 9:50  
Three To Tango  (PG-13)  Digital  
[3:00] 5:15 7:50 I0:05  
Bringing Out The Dead (R)  Digital  
[1:501 4:30 7:10 10:IO Bats (PG-13)  Digital  
[3: lO] 5:20 7:35 9:45  
Crazy in Alabama  (PG-13)  Digital  
5:10  
·  Double Jropardy  (R}  Digital  
[2:50] 5::IO 8:00 JOJO  
Best Man  (R)  Digital  
(1 :30] 4:40 7:50 10:30  
fight Club  (R)  Digital  
[1:10] 4:IU 7:15 10:25 . Sligmata (R)  Digital  
8:15 10:35  
" 

, .........~.., ........, .......... ,_,_.., 0 • Y• •~ • n~•~.......... _,,,,.. n ••·• 
SCOTTSDALE 6 
Scottsdale Mall• 299-6063 
· Mickey Blue Eyes (PG-13) II:SOJ 4:20 7: IO 9:45 ; American Pie (R) 11 :301 4:00 7:00 9:50 .· ·nie Haunting (PG-13) [1:10] 4:10 6:50 9:30 
Music ofthe Heart (PG) 
[1:20] 4:15 7:00 9:40 American Beauty (R) Digital , [1:00] 3:50 6:45 9:30 Three King-; (R) Digital '. f2: 15] 5:05 7:55 I0:35 Super..1ar (PG-13) Digital [ l :401 3;45 5:40 7:45 10:00 
Random Hearts (R) Digillll . 
[1:15] 4:20 7:20 10:20 , Sixth Serue (PG-13) Digital ' [2:10] 4:55 7:25 9:55 Story ofUs (R) Digital [2:20] 4:50 7:40 JO: l 5 BlucStmik (PG-13) Digital [2:40] 8:10 10:40 
Elmo in Grouchland (G) 
[ l :45] 3:55 5:45 
ONLY $1 po i~~:n~'!8J:ery6rv 
$1.50 All Evening Showa  :f 6.  
Deep Blue Sea [2:00] 4:40 7:20 10:00 Rig Daddy [ I :40] 4:50 7:30 9:40 Inspector Gadget [l:20] 4:30 6:40 8:50  (R) (PG-13) (PG)  :  


angry about a non-call on a layup attempt. 
Wizards 102, Celtics 1.01 
Richard Hamilton's 11-foot jumper with 4.4 seconds left spoiled a Boston CP.ltics come­back and gave tho Washington Wizards a victory in the final preseason game for both teams. 
On a night when Hamilton and thP. rest of Connecticut's 1999 NCA!\ champions were honored at halftime, the rookie first­round draft pick scored from the left side of the foul circle after teammate Mitch Richmond missed the second of two free throws. 
After Hamilton's shot, Boston's Kenny Anderson failed to get off a clear shot as time expired. 
Hamilton led a balanced Wizards attack with 17 points. Seven Washington players were in double figures, with Michael Smith adding 15 points and a game-high 11 rebounds. 
Paul Pierce scored 28 points and Anderson had 21 for the Celtics. Walter McCarty led a fourth-quarter surge for Boston and finished with 16. 
The Wizards led 49-40 at half­time and 80-69 after three quar­ters when the Celtics' pressing defense began causing Washington problem. A dunk by McCarty and a three-point play by Tony Battie closed the gap to 82-78 with nine minutes left. 
McCarty's two free throws gave the Celtics an 88-86 lead with 7:02 remaining, and capped a 19-6 run. 
Celtics center Vitaly Potapenko required five stitches after suffering a cut under his left eye in the second half during a scramble under the basket. 


~fje <Co((ege ofcArts anb ;£etters 
inl)ites tfje lJ)til)ersitM communitM to tfje presentation oftfje 1999 <Cfjar(es <e. <3,fjeebJJ cAwarb 8or <E'ice((ence in ~eacfjing to Cf)rofessor CVougfas 5ftinseM oftfje SL)epartment ofcAxt, cf\rt J5istorM anb <vesign. 
4~.,m. 8riba.Y, <Dcto6er 29tfj, c:Annen6erg c:Aubitorium oftfje a,nite Q:Yluseum 
FriJay, October 29, 1999 The observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 
··.. -W:1­


it ... 
•f't', ,'. 

~ --­I 
t ­
--·==.,-__ :--._,.-_.:·__ . •· 
ting 6,200 square foot · . ~fed pond, arunrung in the. ,breatlttakmg . acontinuous 360­
and oak cabinetry 
.~.a large country · 
•
.There are 5 bed· 

•
spacious,. private 


features. In addt..: ·•··• faket' home. The . 
.... 


page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, October 29, 1999 
• WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Big East coaches peg
Riley makes All Big East First Team 
COWBOY MOUTH TICKET§ ON §ALE MONDAY AT THE LAFORTUNE BOX OFFICE, 9 AM. §TUDENT§ §10, PUBLIC !iii! 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame junior center Ruth Riley and Rutgers guards Tasha Pointer. a junior, and Shawnetta Stewart, a senior, return this season as All Big East First Team selections. 
University of Connecticut junior forward Svetlana Abrosimova is the choice for 1999-2000 Big East Prnseason PlayPr of the Year by a vote of the league's head women's basketball coaches. 
Coaches were not permit­
ted to select their own  play­ 
ers.  
The  native  of  St.  

Petersburg. Russia also is a preseason finalist for the Naismith National Player of the Year. 
Abrosimova was a first team All-American last vear after averaging 16.8 points, 
6.3 rebounds and 2.6 steals. 
She became the third play­er in Big East history to earn conference player of the year honors as a sophomore. 
Abrosimova led the Huskies in overall scoring 
(17.5) and steals (2.7) 
Abrosimova is joined on the '99-'00 Preseason All-Big East First Team by three members of the '98-'99 All­Big East First Team. 
Connecticut junior Shea Ralph has been selected to the preseason first team after earning second team accolades in '98-'99. 
Connecticut freshman guard Kennitra Johnson, a native of New Albany, Ind .. was chosen Big East Preseason Rookie of the Year. 


UConn to win title 

Special en The Observer 

The University of Connecticut has been selected by the league's head women's basketball coaches to win the 1999-2000 Big East regular season title. 
Coaches did not place their own teams on their ballots. 
Last season Connecticut advanced to the NCAA Mideast Region semifinals and finished with a 29-5 mark and a 17-1 conference record. 
UConn. which shared the '98-99 regular season title with Rutgers, received 10 
• 
first-place votes and 142 points in the poll. 
The Huskies won their eighth Big East Championship title last season. 
Rutgers earned the remain­ing three first-place votes and finished second in the poll with 135 points. 
The Scarlet Knights advanced to the Midwest Region final and compiled a 29-6 record in 1998-'99. 
Rounding out the top four choices were ·99 NCAA Championship participants Notre Dame with 121 points and Boston College with 112 points. 



COME JOIN US FOR FREE DINNER AND DISCUSSION When: Wednesday, November 3, 1999 at 5:30 PM Where: Center for Social Concerns 
Sponsored by: OMSA R.S.V.P. 1-6841 
I I 


BONFIRE AT HOLY CRO!i!i HILL BETWEEI\I THE LAKE§, TUE§OAY 11/0~ FROM BPM-10PM. FOOD, MU!ilC, FIRE. 
.. !iUB. !iUB. !ilJB.. !iUB. !iUB. !iUB.. !ilJB.. !ilJB.. !ilJB.. !iUB.. !iUB. !ilJB.. !ilJB. !ilJB. !ilJB. .; , ] 
Friday, October 29, 1999 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 23 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 1  PRESIDER AND HOMILIST,  
sPM  MASS FOR ALL SAINTS DAY  
BASILICA OF THE SACRED HEART  
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 2  PUBLIC LECTURE:  
8PM  "MESSAGE OF THE GOSPEL TO A RELIGIOUSLY PLURALISTIC  
MCKENNA HALL AUDITORIUM  WORLD AT THE THRESHOLD OF THE THIRD MILLENNIUM."  
RECEPTION TO FOLLOW  '.  

ALL EVENTS ARE OPEN TO THE PUBLIC. THIS EVENT MADE POSSIBLE BY A GRANT FROM THE HENKELS LECTURE SERIES. 


page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, October 29, 1999 · 
... 
VOLLEYBALL 

Irish set to hold on to first place against Eagles, Friars 
By MATT OLIVA 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame volleyball team travels east this weekend to take on two conference opponents, looking to remain undefeated in the Big East and in first place. 
The Irish (12-6, 6-0) will take on the Boston College Eagles on Saturday and then travel to play the Providence Friars Sunday. Notre Dame has never lost to either school. posting a 5-0 mark against Boston College and a 4-0 record against Providence. 
The Irish have performed well on offense all season in their Big East matches. Christi Girton, Kristi Kreher, and senior captain Mary Leffers all are averaging over three kills per game. Girton leads the team with an average of 
3.74 kills, while Kreher and Leffers are right behind her, aver­aging 3.22 and 3.31 kills respec­tively. Co-captain Oenise Boylan has been running the Irish offense at setter. She has averaged just under 12 assists per game. 
Defensively the Irish have not been as strong as they would have liked. Kreher and Girton have both contributed more than two digs per game, while Leffers has been solid with her blocking, aver­aging 1.78 blocks. Despite these individual efforts, the Irish feel that their defense needs improve­ment. 
"We had a lot to work on after the B'YU and Utah matches," said Leffers. "We haven't had much practice time until this week, but we tried to break things down on offense and defense. We need to pick up our entire game. but espe­cially our passing and defensive ability. On offense we are trying to make plays rather than just hit the ball." 
Boston College enters the game with a 10-13 overall mark, having won two of their six conference games so far. The Eagles two con­ference victories have come against the Huskies of Connecticut and the Villanova Wildcats. 
The Eagles are led by junior out­side hitter Julia El-Hag and junior middle-blocker Kristin Sprinkel. El-Ilag is averaging 2.58 kills per game and a team-best 3.39 digs per game, while Sprinkel leads the team in both blocks (0.84) and service aces (0.41) per game. Setter Kyleen Charlton runs the Eagle offense with a 9.94 assists per game average. 

"They have an aggressive set­ter," said Leffers. "Our team has struggled with dominant setters in the past, so that will be a key for us." 
On Sunday, Notre Dame will face a Providence team led by sophomore outside hitter Sarah Katinger, who averages a Big East leading 4.84 kills per game. Sophomore Annie Cella also is a threat offensively with her 3.63 kills per game and team-leading 
3.93 digs per game. Providence has defeated Big East opponents St. John's, Villanova, Seton Hall and Rutgers and is currently on a five-match win streak. 
The Irish expect to remain undefeated after this weekend and to stay in first place in the Rig East standings. With five more conference games this season, Notre Dame needs to keep its con­ference streak alive. 
"We expect to go into the tour­nament as number one," Leffers said. "But we still have a lot of games to play." 

Hockey 
continued from page 32 
Redhawk power play, the Irish struck again at the 10:03 mark, when a clearing attempt by Molina broke center ice and found forward Matt van Arkel. The junior broke past the Miami defenders and tucked a low forehand shot just inside the right post. 
Molina earned his third assist of the night one minute later when he passed from the back to Dolder, who angled in from the left while trying to draw the defenders away from the weak side. He then slid a soft pass to sophomore left wing David Inman at the top of the crease, who pulled a quick fake before lifting a wrist shot over his right shoulder. 
"He was just outstanding tonight," Poulin said about Molina's effort. "His three assists was secondary to his play, almost. His play was out­standing. The three assists were almost like a bonus." 
The goal was lnman's fifth of the year, already half of his total from last season. Molina's three assists set a career high for points in a game. The Redhawks spoiled the shutout bid at the 14:09 mark in the second, when senior Mark Shalawyo won a face off on the left side of the Irish net and passed behind the goal to sophomore Ken Marsch, who flicked a shnt into the upper right corner. 
Miami struck again at the 
8:55 mark of the third period, when freshman Mark Medvecz scored his first career goal off of assists by Hartlieb and Shawalyo. But it proved to be as close as the Redhawks would get, as senior Andy Jurkowski wrapped up the Irish scoring with a breakaway goal past replacement goalie David Burleigh at the 12:59 mark. 
"I was very encouraged, all around," Poulin said. "It was the best all-around game we've played. Certainly our defense­men moved the puck better in the neutral zone. Eight penal­ties is still too many for us, but when it's O-for-8, it's not too many." 
Zasowski, the first freshman to start at goaltender since Matt Eisler in the second game of the 1994-95 season, has 33 saves on the night and kept the Redhawk power play stagnant by preventing all eight chances. 
"He was very good very early," Poulin said about Zasowski's play. "He was strong all night, there was no question. Both of [Miami's} goals were scored by defense­men on late trailer plays. But Tony looked very good. He looked very solid, and he showed a lot tonight." 
With the win, the Irish improve to 2-5 on the season and 1-4 in CCHA play, while the Redhawks fall to 1-1-1 in con­ference play and 4-2-1 overall. Notre Dame will go for the two­game sweep tonight at the Joyce Center, with the puck set to drop at 7:0!5 p.m. 

www.superjobs.com pla(,, fhaf ,fat\J, o~t. , ••.•·...r.¼i'.t~.?"!!,.. •. ,•.-~~~~"~:~----~~­..' ..· -.~tl(~ •' P 0 ··''i :{\-:''.~:;r:,,(}1  

TONIGHT! 
MEN'S SOCCER 
vs. 
Georgetown 7:30pm 
Free admission for all students 


TONIGHT! 
HOCKEY 
vs. 
Miami 7:00pm 
Free admission to first 375 students 
Friday, October 29, 1999 The Ob,erver . SPORTS page 25 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL PLAYOFFS 
Breen-Phillips looks to keep perfect record against Welsh 
great depth. giving it a host of play at the peak of their game in 

Hy RACH EL Bl BER players that can get the job done. order to pull off an upset of a 
Spurrs Wrirer The Babes have proven that their team that is heavily favored to 
versatility and depth are huge win. Walsh does not expect any 

The adrenaline will run high obstacles for their opponents to miracles on Sunday, but looks to this Su11dav as the women's overcome and those strengths play steady, solid football. interhall r,;otlrnll playoffs get have allowed them to crnate a "We don't expect a 'Cinderella underway. hut the Breen-Phillips forceful offense and defense. story,"' Walsh captain Shaunti Bahns am r<•rnaining calm, k1111p­"We have so many different Althoff said. "But we hope to play ing th<1 samn !{anrn plan intact pl ayers th at we can go to," solid de_ronso and switch up tho that h1L<; lwlpnd thtim c:ruis11 to a Shannon said. offense. p1irfocl rnconl of 6-0, and tlw top !W's captain Katie Leicht also Walsh has come together sn11d in tlw playoffs. sees Sunday's match against throughout the season and has 
Tlw Bairns will lake on the Walsh as a game where the displayed visible improvement. Wild Wonrnn ol' Walsh. who fin­Babes will stick to their normal Tht~ oflensive trio of Kelly Perry ished tlw regular season ul 2-3, routine. which has given them and Laura McGrimley at receiver und wnrn given the No. 8 s1md in success throughoul their unde­and quarterback Melissa Beiting the playofls. foaterl Sf'ason. She hopes to see will seek to crack down the 
Walsh faces the daunting Lask thP momentum of the last half of Babes' defensive unit, while of knocking off a tnam that has the season slide into postscason Rebecca Craig and Althoff will demonstrated its dominance play. ,lead .on defense. throughout thn snason under the "We arc going to try to go out Although the odds are stacked !Pad of' quartPrback .hrnny Choi and play consistently," Leicht against ihe Wild Women. they do and solid play of receiver Karen said. "We were really happy with not intend to easily concede Swanson. Tho Babos have made our last three games. Our defeat to the Babes. They have a habit of 011Lc;coring their oppo-defense really stepped up." made definite improvement at 1w11ls by a wid11 margin. The Babes' confidence has each step of lhe season and could 
BahPs coach Kevin Shannon bAen built slowly during the rAg­give the Babes a tough game. clons not propose any changes in ular season, and their morale is the Bal,ns· gamu plan this wPek­high as they begin the path to the 
Lyons vs. Cavanaugh

n nd as thny hope lo conlinu~ championship game. They do not said. "We have definitely been Yanez said. 
When the Lions of Lyons Hall

tlwir winning-ways. plan Lo show the laxity that char­and the Chaos of Cavanaugh playing progressively better." Yanez will be a key contributor "W(\ do not have a cortain acteriznd their early season play. The Chaos hope to force the for the Lions on the offensive
meet Sunday in the first round of 

strategy, and I haven't seen "We started off slow at the 
Lions to turn the ball over. side. She has proven her ability\Walsh! play." Shannon said. beginning of the year," Shannon what to expect from the oppo­Cavanaugh's defense has been a by demonstrating her athletic tal­"Wn havnn't had a spncilic plan said. "Once we started winning strength throughout regular sea­ent and leadership throughout 
the playoffs, neither team knows 

nent. all season." we got our confidence up." Sixth-seeded Lyons, who post­son play and it does not intend to her four years of play for LyonsBl' boasl<; a team that foatures The Wild Women will have to let Lyons run the show. Hall. The Chaos will also have to
ed a regular-season record of 2­



FOUR FLAGS FARM 
'.B;:J and J3uak(a:1i 
Tit! KfR'lfR~ 
Rui Brn TRAIi NoRrn PHONE Bl'C\l>,NAN. Ml 49107 616-471-5711 

"We are really looking to move deal with freshman quarterback over the third-seeded Cavanaugh 2-1, will try to muster an upset 
the ball and make them make Sarah Jenkins who has exhibited who ended the regular season mistakes," Tacey said. "And we her capability to put points on with a record of 4-2. A Lions win hope to continue playing good the board throughout the season. 
would be possible if the Chaos defense." The Lions might mix things up perform similar like they did at 
Despite the fact that the Chaos on offense this weekend in order the start of the season. 
consists of a core of young play­to shake up the steady defense of Cavanaugh sputtered at the 
ers, their winning ways have the Chaos. Otherwise, they plan beginning of the season with a 
shown their ability to play solid on following the same game plan loss. but has been on a roll since 
football. Quarterback Mandy that has contributed to their suc­then. improving with every 
Reimer leads the squad into this cess this season. game. weekend's playoff-game and the "We are going to stick to "We started o!T kind of slow at strong play of receiver Melissa what's been working for us," the beginning of the season," 
Marcotte and offensive lineman Lions coach Derek Schumacher Chaos captain Melissa Tacey 
Tacey will also force the Lions said. "But we've thrown in a few 
into a tough contest. new things on offense and hope­
"We have a young team," fully those will work for us this Tacey said. "There are only three weekend." seniors, but we've played really Cavanaugh will look to counter well together." Lyons' attack by hanging on to 
The Lions have not caught a the football and avoiding costly glimpse of the Chaos this season. mistakes. They also hope to capi­but know that they are capable talize on any Lions' mistakes in of beating any opponent. order to come up with a big first­Sunday's battle might prove to be round playoff win. a defensive war. as Lyons also "We have a tendency to give up boasts a strong defense, led by the big plays," Chaos coach Matt Crissy Scotti and Lisa Thomas. McCoyd said. "We'll try to control 
"Our defense has always come the ball and play error-free up big," Lyons captain Katy offense and avoid turnovers." 
THE WOMEN'S RESOURCE CENTER 
-

(jf-UY' ~ 
r/lw,J.~_fa~ 1kl~,A'~3 1-7p,m., 
Refreshments will be served. Free t-shirts and mugs. Check out our numerous informational resources. 
•1 myself have never been able to find out precisely what feminism is: 
I only know that people call me a feminist whenever I express sentiments that differentiate me from a doormat ...• -Rebecca West 
Cleveland and rnmwood Roa<l.,/1801 I Cleveland Road/ S01,thBetid, Indiana 46637/ (219)272-8110 
New Castle Point Select Untts Availaltle for Next Semester 
*Within minutes of campus* 
• 
Renovated, spacious one and two bedroom apartments, some with lofts 

• 
Includes membership in the new 


Castle Point Racquet Club ,=== and Fitness Center 
~'-·.· 'i 
~, Vi$it o~r 
. -i'.f. 

r--··--. 
• page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, October 29, 1999
! =============================================================================================================-===== 
.. INTERHALL FOOTBALL PLAYOFFS 
Top-ranked Alumni takes on Fisher in first round 
By KEVIN BERCHOU 
'Spons Writer 
The hits will be that much harder and the play on each down will be intensified as the interhall footbal.l playoffs get underway this Sunday. 
At 1 p.m. the top-seeded Alumni Dawgs will take on the eighth-ranked Fisher Green Wave in what looks to be a competitive clash. 
Alumni, which cruised through regular season en route to a 4-0 record, won the Blue League championship and will no doubt be looking to remain on a roll. The Dawgs' smothering defense. which did not allow a single point during regular season, looks to be get­ting even stronger as senior defensive end Rvan Jochum and sophomore linebacker Brandon Nunnink return from early sea­son injuries. 
"Our defense has be1m great all year long," Alumni captain Pat Paquette said. "We have a great corps of defensive backs that shut down the pass and force our opponents to run." 
Alumni will look to force Fisher to keep the ball on the ground and play into the strength of the Dawg defense. Alumni features a sterling front seven that has harnessed the opponents' rushing attack thus far. 
Fisher, which relies on a smash-mouth offensive attack it calls "Fisher ball" may end up playing right into Alumni's strength. 
"We're not going to let them run the ball,» Paquette said. 
The Dawgs compliment a bril­liant defense with an equally capable offense. Led by sopho­more quarterback Matt Anton­Giovanni and senior tailback Tom Dietrich, Alumni features a potent rushing attack. 
"We'll get everything started on the ground and use the run to set up the pass," Paquette said. "Both our quarterback and tailback are excellent run­ners." 
Fisher will have to be particu­
larly leery of Dietrich, a talent­
ed athlete, who has shown big­
play ability all year. Though the 
Dawgs are first and foremost a 
running team, Anton-Giovanni 
is a dangerous passer and his 
talents will no doubt be utilized. 
Though a matchup pitting the 
top seed against the lowest seed 
might seem one sided, Alumni 
is not approaching the game 
lackadaisically. 
"We're not going to take them 
lightly," Paquette said. "I think 
we're going to win though." 
Keenan vs. Sorin 
In a game that could go down as one of the season's best, the third-seeded Keenan Knights ­the two-time defending leagllfi champion -will battle the sixth-ranked Sorin Otters in a rematch of last year's title game. The Otters have revenge on their minds, but they face a daunting task in attempting to end the Knights' 18-game unbeaten streak. 
Keenan enters postsoason play seeded third by virtue of 3­0-1 regular season record. The Knights feature a swarming defense that pitched shutouts in each of its four outings. St>nior player/coach Dong Min anchors a strong secondary that dis­courages opponents from taking to the air. Talented linebackers Eric Nelson and Joe Klopp com­bine with senior standout defensive end Doug Kraft to snuff out the opposition's run­ning game. The ablity to stop both the run and the pass make Keenan's defense very well­rounded. 
Offensivelv. however, the Knights have shown some chinks in their armor. Thev failed to score in a season end·­ing scoreless tie wHh Keough. 
"We've yet to find our niche offensively,'' Keenan captain Herb Giorgio said. "Our offen­sive line struggled to open up holes against Keough, so we'll be looking to improve on that. We're treating that game as a wake up call, and we'll be look­ing to improve on offense." 
Running back Nick Costanzo will be called upon early and often, as the Knights will attempt to establish the running attack at the game's onset. 
Freshmen quarterback Billy Ellsworth will be hoping to regain his early season form, which saw him throw scores in each of his first three outings. 
If the time has come for Keenan's unbeaten streak to come to an end, the Sorin Otters may just be the team to do it. The Otters feature the league's most explosive passing attack fueled by the nearly unstop­pable combination of senior sig­nal caller Luke Buerlein and sure-handed freshman wideout Greg Carney. The pair has struck fear in the opposition, hooking up on numerous occa­sions for long scores. The Otters are a pass-oriented team, and will go to the run only if the air attack fails. 
"We'll be looking to spread it around," said Carney. "We're going to try to keep them on their toes." 
Defensively the Otters will 
employ a strategy very much 
the opposite of Keenan's. Sorin 
will look to take away the run 
and make the Knights pass. 
The game's outcome will like­
ly hinge on the success of 
Keenan's thus far insurmount­
able defense against Sorin's yet 
to be contained passing attack. 



JEFF HSU/The Observer 

Alumni tailback Tom Dietrich breaks through a hole in a game against Stanford earlier this sea­son. The Dawgs and Green Wave battle this Sunday with the winner advancing to the semifinals. 
Make if a great weekend I Don't miss ... 
Friday, 
October 29 at 8pm 
O'Laughlin Auditorium 
MfjA()
I C_~ THE ARTS 
~NOTREDAMI!, IN 

For ti~ket information c~ntod 219/28 4 4 6 2 6 
the Sarni Mary's Box OffKe al ­
Friday, October 29, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 27 
History 
continued from page 32 
got a tmTibln cold and folt like giving up." 
Although tlwir conficfoncc was low, tlw Irish w1mm'L giving up. Fullback Tony WP!d1m blocked llouston's punt at tlw :B-yurd li1w and StPvn Cichy rdurned tlw ball for a touchdown to cut tlw lt>ad to I11. On tlw 1•11suing two-point ronvPrsion, Montana hit laillmck Vagas Fergusen and tiw Irish worn within two toucl1­dow11s. 
"That sn1•11wd to b,~ the turn­ing point or t.hc game," Cichy said af"Lnr Urn ganrn. "We got mo11w11tum back and 1:vnryihing slart1HI dicking altPr thal.." 
Th(: defense l'orc1•d I louston to punt on its rwxt possossion and Montana took over at his own 3<J-yard li1w with just 5:40 rnmaining in Urn gamn. Three µassns movpcl Lim ball to the Cougar 3-yard li1rn in l1!SS than orw min ulfi and a half Two plays latnr Montana scampered two yards into llm nnd zone to c!os1; tlw gap to just eight. 
ll1\vi11e again called for a two point, convnrsinn. Montana hit llainos and Urn Cougar lnad was just six, :{4-28. 
Nntre Dame got the ball back and marched right down the ficld toward a touchdown that would give it the lead. But then disastc>r struck. 
Montana scrambled for 16 yards lo move the Irish to the Cougar 20-yard limi. At thP end ol' the run, however, Montana rumbled and the ball was recov­ercd by Houston's Tommy libner. It appeared that Montana's improbable come-hack had comn to an end. six poinLc, short of its goal. 
But strong dofonse and a questiouablo call by Houston head couch Bill Yeoman gave Montana one more chance. The Irish dnfonse forced a fourth­and-1 at the Cougar 29-yard line. ltather than punting the ball away and giving Montana one last chance, Yeoman electPd to go f'or the first down. Joe Grnmlrn and Mike Calhoun 11 yards on first down to pick up another first down at the 18­yard line. He then hit Haines for 10 more yards to move the ball tn the eight. 
With just a few seconds r<1maining on the clock, Montana dropped back and threw the ball toward Haines in the hack of the end zone. The pass, however, fell incomplete and tho Irish had just one more shot at the end zone with two seconds remaining on the dock. 
With just one chance left, Montana called for the exact same play. This time Haines caught the ball and the game was tied at 34 and the clock r:ead 0:00. 
"It couldn't have been a more perfect pass," Baines said. "This is the greatest feeling in the world." 
Joe Unis lined up for the most important extra point nfihe sea­
stopped Cougar tailback EmmcJ.. _liQ.11.and knocked tho ball right King for no gain al the Houston through the uprights. An illegal 29-yard line. procedure penalty, however, 
Yeoman defended his call forced Unis to try the kick again after the game. from five yards further away. 
"It was my decision," ho said. Unis had no problem from a "l don't think anyone wanted to slightly longer distance as he kick the ball away anyway." tacked on the final point in the 
With just 28 .seconds left on dramatic 35-34 victory. the clock, Montana and the Irish 'TH remember this game for offense stood just 29 yards from the rest of my lifo," Haines said. victory. Montana ran the ball for "This team never quits." 



Brad Metz, C.S.C. • Irish Guard 1992-95 Ordination Date: April 6, 2002 
Can you make this team? 

ANSWER ~ 
THECALL W 

Fr. Bill Wack, C.S.C. 
www.nd.edu/-vocation 

INTERHALL FOOTBALL PLAYOFFS 
By JASON KROMPINGER 
Sports W'riter 
This Sunday at McGlinn Field; the women's·inter-hall football playoffs begin for fourth-seeded Welsh and fifth-seeded Badin. 
Both teams are closely­matched and each had its share of' peaks and valleys during the regular season. Badin is a team that comes into the playoffs showing an offense that is unique to the league -one primarily based on the running game. 
Despite the unorthodox nature of this style of play, it served the Bullfrogs well in a 6-2 upset of the then 3­0 Howard Ducks in muddy conditions on Oct. 3. 
The Welsh Whirlwinds have had a number of learn­ing experiences this season that resulted in them becoming a better team as the season progressed. 
Co-Captain Katie Hak feels that early losses forced the team to focus. 
"We had a couple of early wins, but we never really played to our full potential in either of those games," Rak said. 
..... 
....

"When we lost to Pasquerilla East, we played terrible," she continued. "We couldn't catch, we couldn't pass, and we couldn''t play defense. But we felt that it was okay since it seemed like every­one was losing to them. But after the we lost to Lyons, we were put in our place, and figured from that point on we were not going to lose." 
Rak said that practice this week has been on the whole very positive during the week and the team is con­tinually trying to improve. 
"Our defense needs to be able to keep up its intensity during the games. That is when they usually play the best," Rak said. 
"Our overall focus during the games also has to improve, we tend to mess around a little too much." 
The Welsh defense has been focusing on stopping Badin's formidable ground game. 
An added bit of tension to complete the scene of' the upcoming playoff comes in ­the form ol' "friendly" trash­talking occurring between the coach<is of tho two teams. 
"They know each other so they talk a lot of trash to each other about tlrn game," Rak said. "They know how we play and we know how they play." 
ERASMUS BOOKS! 
•Used 
boob bought and sold 

•25 
Categories of Books 

•25,000 
Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

•Out-of-Print 
search service: S2.00 

•Apprais2ls 
large ~nd small 


Open noon to six 

Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne 
South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232-844 

r 
I 
•
t 
,I page 28 'l 
I 
r 
l 
I MEN'S SOCCER 
'I 
The Observer . SPORTS Friday, October 29, 1999 
•
• Irish face must-win sitl1ation against Hoyas for tourney spot 
By KERRY SMITH 
Sports Writer 
Stuck in a three-game losing slump that may jeopardize the Notre Dame men's soccer team's goal for a post-season Big East play-off berth, the Irish are all too aware that much is riding on tonight's matchup with conference rival Georgetown. 
.After a disappointing showing in the Big East last week, the Irish have compiled a 4-4-1 conference record. With only two games left in the regular season -both of them against Big East teams -the Irish are facing a must-win situation in order to continue on to the tourna­ment. 
"If we win we're into the play­offs, so we know we have to play well", said defender Connor LaRose. "That gives us a lot of motivation to have a big game and win." 
The I loyas, who have fared only slightly better than the Irish in con­ference action with a 5-4-1 record, find themselves in the same must­win situation. making tonight's match up key for both teams. The Irish will need to focus on their defonsive strength in order to fend oIT the lloyas. 

"We're focusing on getting orga­nized defensively a little better than we were last week," said head coach Mike Berticelli earlier in the week. "We're doing all right but we have to get to the point where we aren't allowing any -goals to be scored on us." Despite the three-game skid last week, the Irish defense has been a 
consistent force on a team where a fluctuating offense has been a per­manent cause for concern. 
Starting anywhere from five to seven freshmen in each game this season, youth and inexperience took its toll on the team's record early on. With the offense strug­gling to put the ball in the net in the squad's opening games, the defense came up big and kept the Irish in each contest. 
The biggest threat to the lrish defense is Hoya forward Kenny Owens. With live goals and three assists on the season, Owens leads the Hoya offense and has proven himself to be the squad's most potent player on the front line. 
"We've been working on tighten­ing up our defense and marking everyone on the field to prevent them from scoring," said LaRose. "They play well as team and are good on offfrnse, but we know we have the ability to beat them." 
A first half team. the Hovas throughout the season have estab­lished a pattern of coming on strong from the outset and then suffering from a defensive let down in the second half. The Hoyas have given up only four goals in the first half of play all season, but oppo­nents have been able to score 15 goals in the second half of play. 
"Last year they took it to us and we know that," LaRose said. "We need to focus on scoring against them and not being lackluster on offense like we have been in our past few games." 
Notre Dame's matchup with Georgetown marks the squad's final regular season home game of tho year. 


The Irish square off in a key matchup against the Hoyas tonight with the hopes of capturing a spot in the Big East tournament. 

-
.... 
Registration Deadline! 
5:00 PM, Friday, October 29th 
Pick up and drop off your registration form at the Center for Social Concerns today! 
Questions? Call Jay Caponigro, 631-5293. 
Friday, October 29, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 29 
CROSS COUNTRY 
Notre Dame aims for top spot at Big East Championships 



By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Assimanr Sporrs Editor 
The Notre Dame cross coun­try squads have one more opportunity to tune up for the postseason at the Big East Championships in Manhattan. 
The Irish should be among the top teams competing in the meet, both on the men's and women's sides. 
Notre Dame's men's squad finished sixth at the Pre­National NCAA meet Oct. 15 ­shocking everyone but them­selves. Following that showing, the Irish rose from 17th to 10th in the national rankings. 
"It raised our confidence a lot," said sophomore Marc Striowski. "Because we improved in the national standings from 17 to 10 and shows that we 're competitive with Georgetown and the other top teams in the country." 
Conforence rival Georgetown is the lone Big East team ranked higher than Notre Dame. The Hoyas, who have already defeated the Irish twico this season, arc seventh in the national standings. But the Irish are hoping the third time will be a charm, and that they will be able to knock off their foe. 
"We have to beat Georgetown. who's ranked seventh just ahead of us," said Striowski. "They're del'initely the favorite, but we have a pretty good chance." 
Head coach Joe Piane isn't promising an upset, but thinks the Irish are capable of bring­ing home a championship if their third through seventh runners can pick up the pace. 
Junior Byan Shay has fin­ished first for the Irish in every race he has run this season. Shay is a top competitor nationally, capturing fourth at Pre-Nationals, just six seconds behind the leader. He qualified for the NCAA Championships last season, and is aiming for the top 10 this year. 
Sophomore Luke Watson has run solidly for Notre Dame throughout the year. He is also experienced in elite competi­tion. having run in the U.S. Junior Cross Country Championship last year. 
Following Shay and Watson to the finish line all season have been Striowski, seniors Sean McManus, John Dudley, 
Mike  Griewe  and  Ryan  
Maxwell  and  freshman  
Antonio Lopez.  

"We need to get our top five in the top 15 and top six in the top 20," said Striowski. "We just have to run a little more aggressively than last week." 
The Irish women, on the other hand, struggled at the 

Pro-National meet, winding up 22nd. 
They were missing their top runner, senior All-American JoAnna Deeter, who sat out the race with a sprained ankh1. Deeter, who has paced the Irish all season long, will not be able to compete in the Big East Championships, and may have to sit out the rest of the season. 
Women's head coach Tim Connelly downplayed the importance of De(1ter's absence. 
"Our goals are to be in the top three," said Connelly. "I think that's very realistic. They're training very, very well." 
Notre Dame is seeking to get back on track following its dis­a p po in ting performancn at Pm-Nationals. Since at-largH qualification for nationals is based primarily on what other teams a school has boaten, Notre Dame needs an out­standing showing today for a shot at an at-large bid. 
"We 're hoping to finish third." said senior Alison Klommer. "We're trying to pull hack togetlrnr and run well as a team." 
"It's really important in terms of getting our contidencn back. In this sport, confidencn is everything," said Connelly. "The thing about our sport is that no ono else can stop you from running woll. You're in control of whether you run well or not." 
Klemmer is the top Irish run­ner competing today. She fin­ished 44th overall at l'rn­Nationals, leading all Notre Dame athletes to tlrn finish line. 
Senior Nicole LaSelle will enter the Irish lineup for thn first time this year. She has been injured through much of her career but could be a sig­n i f'ican t addition for Notre Dame. 
Last track season. LaSelle placed fifth in the Big East Championships in the 5,000­meter run and qualified for the NCAA championships in the 10.000-meter run. 
"We tried to be patient and bring her along and not rush things," said Connolly. "She tried as well as I've smrn her train in the last three years." 
Seniors Patty Hice and Erin Luby, juniors Erin Olson and Bridget O'Brien and freshman Jennifer Handley are tho nnxt strongest runners for the Irish. The squad was ranked 22nd at tho beginning of' the soason, and is scnking to makn its way back into the rankings with a top-three placing today. 
The Big East Championships course is 8K for the men and SK l'or the women. 
Lookingfor the perfect 
on-campus spot for 
mid-afternoon discussion 
groups that offers light · snacks and beverage service? 
Please call The University Club of Notre Dame 631-4678 

.. 
.. 
... 

page 30 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, October 29, 1999 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Irish need win over Hoosiers to keep top regional ranking 
By MIKE CONNOLI.Y AssociJre Sports Editor 
The No. 6 Notre Damp women's soccer team (14-3) travels to Bloomington, Ind., Sunday to take on the Jndiana lloosiers (G-9-3). 
While Indiana is neither a strong team nor a conference rival, a win over the Hoosiers is very important to the Irish post-season seedings. 
Indiana is part of the NCAA Great Lakes region along with Notre Dame, Kentucky, Michigan and othflr area schools. 
Currently the Irish are in 

,. first place in the region but a slip up against the Hoosiers could hurt Notre Dame's seed­ing in thr NCAA tournament. •• I think certainly in our region to be the high seed is very important." head coach Randv Waldrum said. "We hope that we would be one of the top four seeds so we can host tournament games up through the final four. So I think it is very important to win out. That only enhances our chances." While the Irish stand sixth in the polls behind Santa Clara, North Carolina, Nebraska, Florida and Penn State, the seedings for the tournament are not based on the polls. Instead a committee uses such factors as strength of schedule and head-to-head results to determine the seed­ings. The higher a team's seed, the more likely it will host a tournament game. The top four seeds are guaranteed to host tournament games up through the quarterfinals. Waldrum believes that Notre Dame's difficult sched­ule will help the Irish gain a top-four seeding. "We feel like our strength of schedule is better than Florida's," he said. "We think its better than Penn State's. We think its comparable if not 
helter than Nebraska's so 1 think there is still a possibility that we can still get one of those top four seeds." 
Playing in the Big East tour­nament will also help the Irish ca.use. Notre Dame will proba­bly face strong (earns such as Syracuse, Seton Hall and Connecticut. Wins over those three teams would greatly improve Notre Dame's strength of schedule. 
Before the pustseason begins, however. the Irish still have to correct some defen­sive problems. 
While Waldrum could find little to complain about his team's offense that scored nine goals against Wisconsin, he was not pleased with men­t a I lapses that led to the Badgers scoring two goals less than one minute after the Irish scored a goal. 
"I was very conccrn(\d about that,'' he said, "That is one of the things that wr, have to get better at. The kind of goals that we were giving up weren't really goals that they created so much against us as they were mistakes that we made. 
"We have to find a way to stop making mental mis­takes," he continued. "That's going to hurt us in the big games if we aren't careful. It seems like we have been giv­ing up a lot of those through out the season. We're just los­ing our concentration for a minute or two. As things get tougher, we can't afford to do that." 
With tougher games just around the corner, Waldrum hopes to get out to a big lead against the Hoosiers so that he can rest his players for the post-season. 
"It is certainly a game that we are hoping to get some players some rest," he said. "Last night fortunately we were able to get some players some rest in the Wisconsin game in the last 15 or 20 min­utes. Hopefully we can do the same against Indiana." 


• 
TREDA 
RTME 

4 Blocks from Campus 
'ti Large 2-Bedrooms for under $ 
A:J"J%,W'i, ... . , •. 
:~ # Pre-Leasing for Fall 2000! 
Best Value In Off Campu 
Professionally Managed b••.· Real Estate Management Core~t,; ·• 

•• 
234-9923 

Friday, October 29, 1999 The Ob;·erver . TODAY page 31 
TOM KEELEY JEFF BEAM
FOURTH AND INCHES A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD 



BILL A1VIEND
Fox TROT 
Guess which one of these football players isn't allowed to play on Saturday. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 36 Worrisome sound for a mail
1 Flatter carrier 
a Disco pulser 37 In the style of
14 I stress? 38 Imparts
1& Aftershock 
11 Monroe's Veep 39 Symbol of desire
1e Bantu language 41 Chronic
19 Popular baked gambler'streat ingredients problem
21 Put in one's two cents' worth 42 Workaholics don't use it23 Carpenters and much
harvesters 47 Like some
24 Mock-portraying patches
211 Air menace 48 Rod-shaped
26 Music bacterium
collectibles 52 Putting on the
29 Scientific line
standard 34 Cold war thriller 53 Quick buck? heroes 
54 "Ivanhoe" 35 Rent fixers? weapons 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


~ Ancient Asia Minor country visited by St. Paul 
DOWN 
1 Do-over 2 In the past 3 "Day" in Hebrew 4 Like many a 
cover title s Coming down 
with something e In abeyance 1 Target number 
in baccarat a Severe 
9  Word on the  
front of all U.S.  
coins  
10  Gains  
11  Old Dodge  
12  Point to  
13  Historians'  
subjects  
15  Clamor (for)  Puzzle by Patrick D. Berry  
20  Like a bookie joint, maybe  ac  Research results  
21 22  Word with can or season ''The  a1  Theatergoer's haunt  
Homecoming"  32  Chump  
playwright  33  Coordination  
24  Flying through  centers  
25  Not quite  39  Pre-exam  
summa  feeling, maybe  
26  "Woe is me" soliloquy  40  Go to confession  
2:1  Speaks on  
bended knee  41  Orders  
28  Directs  42  1iny bottle  


43  Mozart's  49  Something to  
"Madamina,"  bid on  
e.g.  so  News source,  
44  Ears that can't  for short  
hear  
45  Rockets grp.  51  "America, the Beautiful''  
46  Little kick  closer  

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Richard Dreyfuss, Kate Jackson, Winona Ryder, Bill Mauldin 
Happy Birthday: You know how to make your mark. When you talk, people listen. Now it's time for you to learn to relax and enjoy life's little pleasures. Your hard work should start to pay off, and the stress you've been under will lilt. If you truly want something badly enough, go after it, and it will be yours. Your numbers: 4, 12, 19, 26, 38, 44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Reno­vations should be on your mind. Your plans may not please some of the member.s of your family in the begin­ning, but once you get started they'll change their minds. 00 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Sud­den romantic encounters will not be lasting or fulfilling. Use discrimina­tion and be up-front about your intentions. Don't move too quickly or take this chance meeting too seriously. 
0000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Sud­den romantic infatuations will not be lasting. Don't be too quick to let new acquaintances know about your per­sonal life or vour financial situation. They may try to talk you out of your money 000 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Be· prepared to have your plans changed. You will have to learn to accept the ine,~table. Creative endeavors or activi­ties with children will be satisfying. 
000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You are in a high-energy cycle. Your discipline will help you accomplish your goals. Don't waste the day waiting for oth­ers to get movmg. Take matters mto your own hands. 000 
beam.1 @nd.edu 

EUGENIA LAST  
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You can capitalize on someone else', assets. Be honest in your dealings Those less able to take care of their financial affairs are counting on you to be honest and trustworthy. 0000 LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Trips will bring cultural knowledge thal will benefit you. Attend seminars it possible and pick up additional skill; that will enable you to gel ahead with professional objectives. 00 SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't trust anyone with your secrets. It is best to do things you enjoy and nol worry so much about what others are doing or saying. Problems with in­laws or friends will be eye-opening 00000 SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Work on your presentations. Look into courses that will help you devel­op a hobby you have. Don't trust oth­ers with your-money or belongings Fend for yourself and you'll have nn regrets. 000 CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Your erratic behavior will affect those you live with. Try to be patient and don't point a finger at someone else unless you have all the facts to sup­port your suspicions. 000 AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't rely on others to do things for you. Idle promises will only put you further behind. Entertain friend, who can provide you with mental stimulation. 000 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Money will filter through your fin­gers if you aren't prudent. You will have a tendency lo be too generous with children and friends. Escapist tendencies will be costly as wel I 00000  .. - 

Birthday Baby: Your curiosity will get you into trouble, but ii will also be the reason you're so street smart. Trial and error ma_1· not be everyone's choice, but it does work for you. You are a pioneer who can't resist wandering into unfamiliar territory. · 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at aslroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromale.com.) 1:-lQ9<) Urnwrsal fln..•ss Syndii.:"tt~ 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
---------------------------------------------------------~~--~---~-------­
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name -----------------------------­
Address-----------------­
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
a ca a as 2 1 L EL 

Running down a dream 
Alison Klemmer and the Irish are looking to bring home a first-place finish when they compete in the Big Hast Cross Country Championships today. 
PORTS 
page 29 
O
THE 

page 32 BSERVER Friday, October 29, 1999 



HOCKEY 

Irish score flurry of goals in 5-2 victory over Redhawks 
By BILL HART 
Associate Sports Editor 
Some say one win isn't enough to turn a season around, but after Thursday night's game, the outlook for Notre Dame's ice hockey team is whole lot brighter. 
During the first career start of fresh­man goaltender Tony Zasowski, the Irish scored four goals in less than eight min­utes and earned their first home and CCHA win with a 5-2 victory over the Miami (Ohio) Rcdhawks. 
Both teams cautiously traded penalties and shots in the first period, but each to no avail. 
The Redhawks, anxious to prey on Zasowski's inexperience, gave him plen­ty of tests early in the game. 
After gaining a power play off an elbowing penalty in the second minute, the visitors gained a clear breakaway off center ice. 
But the Irish goaltender stood tough, blocking the shot with ease and recover­ing in time for the defensemen to arrive. 
The Irish continued their offensive woes in the first period, mounting only five shots on goal. So far, the team has scored only one goal in the opening peri­ods of all seven games this season. 
"We had some chances early today which we haven't had," head coach Dave Poulin said about the early scoring drought. "I thought our first period was pretty good, though. It's just that we're 
cqming off the stretch we're coming off of, it's still pretty fragile when it gets to be game time. But hopefully the momen­
KEVIN DALUMfThe Observer 
tum from this game will carry through to 

The Irish went on a scoring bonanza in the second period of Thursday night's game against the Redhawks, tallying four 
the next one." Both teams traded passes until the goals in less then eight minutes. The Irish went on to win the contest 5-2. 
1:40 mark of the second period, when Notre Dame's Dan Carlson and Miami's front of Leahy, streaked past the left Scoring deluge post that just barely beat Olsen's glove Pat Leahy earned penalties for tripping point with a pass from Joe Dusbabek and After Carlson's goal, the offensive hand. and interference, respectively. sent a rising shot over Olsen's glove hand floodgates opened up for the Irish. At the Dusbabek's goal was his first of the 
Six seconds later, the Redhawks' Ernie at the 3:45 mark. 4:08 mark, Redhawk defender Clarke season and was assisted by Carlson and Hartlieb was called for high sticking Irish The goal was Carlson's second on the Wolford was called on a double minor senior defenseman Tyson Fraser. right wing John Wroblewski in the face. year. Sean Molina and senior Joe for holding and unsportsmanlike con­After holding back a short-lived 
When the coincidental penalties ended, Dusbabek each earned an assist on the duct. Less than 30 seconds later, Carlson rushed out of the penalty box in play. Dusbabek redirected a shot to the right see HOCKEY/page 24 
• 
FOOTBALL HISTORY 

Last-minute heroics propel Irish to Cotton Bowl victory 
Editor's note: Notre Dame's The greatest come-from­After the game, head coach degrees. defense couldn't stop the Cougar journey to achieve designation behind victory in Notre Dame Dan Devine called the victorf Even Irish players seasoned to attack. Led by two Danny Davis as the 20th century's greatest history, however, was so "the greatest of all the come­bitter South Bend winters were rushing touchdowns, tho college football team is marked improbable that even the most backs I've been associated not prepared for the weather. Cougars built a seemingly insur­by 10 milestones, one in each optimistic with." "I tell you, it was cold," Irish mountable 34-12 lead. decade since I 900. The Irish fan 1979 While a 23-point, come-from­middle linebacker and tri-cap­Even with Montana back in Observer examines these could not behind victory alone is dramat­tain Bob Golie said after the the fourth quarter, the Irish
Cotton Bowl 

moments in a 10-part series h a v e ic, the conditions in which game. "I've never played in any­could not reach the end zone. that appears on Fridays. anticipat­Notre Dame 35 Montana led his troops to victo­thing as cold as that before." With 7:39 remaining in the ed it. ry made the win over the ninth­The cold plunged Montana's game, Notre Dame's confidence
Houston 34 

By MIKE CONNOLLY Trailing ranked Cougars even more body temperature well bi:llow was low, according to Irish split 
Associate Sports Editor 34-12 with incredible. A storm hit Dallas on normal, forcing him to miss end Kris Ilaines. 
less than eight minutes remain­Dec. 30 and coated the entire most of the third quarter while "There was a point in the 
From the come-from-behind ing in the game, Joe Montana city in a thick covering of ice. Irish trainers desperately tried game where I was starting to victory over Ohio State iu 1935 led the Irish to 23 unanswered Along with the ice that shut off to warm him up with chicken feel a little sorry for myself," to the victory over USC two points to rally Notre Dame to a pow.er in most of the city came soup in the locker room. Haines said after the game. "My weeks ago, Notre Dame fans 35-34 win over the Houston bitter winds and below freezing With their quarterback in the leg was hurting some and I've have come to expect last-minute Cougars in the 1979 Cotton temperatures. At kickoff the locker room, the Irish offense heroics from their football team. Bowl. wind chill was measured at -19 couldn't move the ball and the see HISTORY/page 27 
Men's Tennis VoI!eyball ~ Saint Mary's Cross Country at Mary & William Midwesr Invitational, "J;l MIM Championships,
SPORTS 

Invitational. Friday, 3:30 p.m. at Kalamazoo College, · Friday-Sunday Saturday, 11 a.m.
ATA 
vs. Georgetown,
Cross Country 
vs. Navy,
Friday, 7:30 p.m.
Big East Championships, Saturday, 1 :30 p.m.
GLANCE 
ar New York, 
Friday, 10 a.m. 




NSIDER 
O
THE Friday, October 29, 1999 BSERVER Notre Dame vs. Navy 

JEFF HSU/The Observer After suffering from homesickness his freshman year, Junior tight end Jabari Holloway adjusted to the 1000-mile move from Riverdale, Ga., to northern Indiana. He scored the winning touchdown for the Irish against the Trojans with his fourth-quarter fumble recovery in the end zone. In addition to laying It all on the line as a major threat on the Irish offense, Holloway excels in the classroom as a computer engineering major. For more on Jarious Jackson's biggest target, see page 3. 
KICK-OFF FORECASTINSIDE 

game preview.......... ....page 2 
record: 4-3 

record: 2-5 
rosters....................... .page 4 
home: 4-1 home: 0-4
vs.

focus on Navy ............ .page 5 
away: 0-2 away: 2-1 college games today.... page 6 


gametime: 1 :30 p.m. ND time weather: partly cloudy, high 
pregame commentary...page 7 
in the low 6os 

page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 29, 1999 
game hype 


"Jfwe can stay healthy, I think we will improve. I really like the attitude ofour
Bob Davie 
team."
Irish head coach 

"They can come at you in so many dif ferent ways ... that's what allows them to 

make big 
Greg Mattison plays." defensive coordinator 


"When we have won the rest ofour games this year, then I will be 
Dan O'Leary 
complacent.,.
tight end 
"/ want to go out there and help the team . ., 

Julius Jones tailback 

Davie wary of Navy despite record 

ByTIM CASEY Sporn Writer 
Navy's starting quarterback Brian Broadwater is sidelined with a broken right collar­bone. Head coach Charlie Weathorhie had surgery on Monday to remove a kidney stone. The Midshipmen bring a 2-5 record into Saturday's game. Notre Dame has beat­en Navy 35 straight times, the longest winning streak by one team over another in NCAA history. Navy seems to be sinking before the game even starts 
Although on paper Navy doesn't match up with Notre Dame, Bob Davie knows bet­ter. Davie's main concerns lie in Navy's classic wishbone offense and an improved defense, as well as knowing that the Midshipmen are always eager to end the los­ing streak to the Irish. 
"Any time you play the wishbone, it is a different kind of game, it's tough to prepare for," Davie said, "It is always the same when you play them. The record doesn't matter. What they did last week doesn't matte~." 
Though the leader of the ,Nishbone attack [Broadwater] will not play Saturday, the offense still causes concern for opposing teams, particu­larly because there are not many teams that run the wishbone. 
Defending the wishbone will be a challenge for the Irish, according to defensive coordi­nator Greg Mattison. 

"It's truly an assignment­responsible defense," !Vfattison said, "If a guy makes a mistake, they'll have an opportunity to make a big play." 
Filling in for Broadwater is sophomore Brian Madden. On the season, Madden has played in four games. He has completed 4 of 11 passes for 39 yards, while gaining 91 yards rushing on 21 carries. 
Madden replaced Broadwater on the second drive of the fourth quarter in last week's 35-29 loss to Akron. The Zips scored 22 unanswered points in the final quarter to record the victory. 
In order to prepare for the backup quarterback, Davie and his staff gathered the lim­ited game mm that they had of Madden. Madden's passing ability stuck out in those films, according to Davie 
The three running backs in the wishbone attack, slot­backs John Vereen and Dre Brittingham and fullback Raheem Lambert are all aver­aging nearly six yards per carry. Lambert's 393 yards on the ground rank second on the team behind Broadwater. Brittingham (237 yards) and Vereen (216) are third and fourth on the team in rushing. 
1'/avy has improved consid­erably on the defensive side of the ball from last year. A year ago, the Midshipmen defense allowed 216.6 yards per game on the ground and an additional 246.1 through the air for an average of 
462.7 yards in total. This sea-
JEFF HSU/The Observer 

Tom Lopienski leads a resurgent Notre Dame rushing attack against the Navy Midshipmen. 
son, the Midshipmen are three fumble recoveries) has allowing 348 total yards per been a force on the defensive game. line. 
Leading the charge on "Their defense is tough to defense is free safety Chris prepare. for," Davie said, Lepore. The junior ranks first "They probably bring the on the team with 93 tackles, safety blitz and the corner 22 more than any other blitz more than any football Midshipman. team I have ever seen. That is 
Defensive end Gino something we struggled with Marchetti (37 total tackles, a little bit against Arizona nine for loss, five sacks and State." 

Domino's Delivery 271-0300 
Store Hours: 
Sunday -Thursday 11 am -2 am 
Friday & Saturday 11 am -3 am 


,-.. ...... ....., 
,...............
I ...... ....., I ,.....,
I ,....., 
,.. 
...... ...... 

~ '-., I•1 '-.,
,' 6°._9n I I ~ 0.!)nl
I (. ,;:, I '1 '-a ,,
I 1 a,-,.. I

,r. ~e I 't. ,-9e I 
I Op,._. I I Op/Jlt, I
I tl( . ,.,,,,,.. I 

I 9 I
I Ptt<::s 1 l -:I / 

...... /29199 I..., !:)(Pires 1 / 
...... ....., I 
....., .._ '129199 I 
',....., I ',.._ I 
........... ...,/ ...... ,...,/ 


Friday, October 29, 1999 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Holloway makes the big plays 
. Junior tight end balances excellence in the classroom and on the field. 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 


A~sisr:t!ll Spnrr, Editor Holloway 
f'popln say junior tight end 
position: tight end 

.lahari llolloway works hard. 
year:junior

II' they want to se11 hard work. tlwy should sec his par­awards: USA Today honor­nnts -both or whom took on able mention All-American SPCOIHI jobs in ordor to afford 
in high school, named to 26­

airf'arn to attnnd their son's 
rnember Reebok prep Al/­

ganws. 
America team

"l\1y parnnb madfl a great nf'l'ort to com11 up f'or fwcry notables: has started more homP gamp," said llolloway. games than any other "Both ol' my pan•nts took on 
junior (24), rated best tight 

SPrond jobs to takf• off somP 
end by Lindy's, rated

of the cosL and pay for plane 
eighth best tight end in

tkknt.s." 
llolloway said his parPnts conntry hy Sporting News, raisnd him in tho church. scored the winning touch­always teaching him t.hn 
down against USC 

importatll'P or putting his best nffort forth. 
!IP has taken that lnsson to Prior to the USC game, heart. Known as a workhorse O'Leary 's playing time had on tlw n,dd and a playur who bcm1 increasing, but lfolloway dnPs it all. Holloway makes turned the situation around llw hig plays, averaging nearly with his outstanding play 16 yards per rnccption. against the Trojans. 
llolloway has balanced his One of Jlolloway's biggest linw al Notre Dame belwcun plays or the 1999 season came football and studies. Off the in the 25-24 nail-biter victory 
finld, llolloway is a Dnan's List over USC. Quarterback Jarious student and computer engi­.Jackson fumbled the football nnnring major. earning a three yards away from the 
:{.205 grade-point average in goal line. and Holloway recov­tlw spring. ered in the end zone for a 
With onn ol' the most touchdown. dPmamling majors on l'Hmpus. "I thought Jabari came back llolloway doesn't have a lot of' against USC, though, and real­tim(• to spam. lie is rarely ly played wr.ll. Probably abl1• to socialize with the other played his best football game players outsidr. of practico. ol' the year," said head football 
llolloway said one or the l'ew coach Bob Davie. "That is players h11 spends time with is what you like to see. You like .Justin Smith, who is also an to see players respond when engirwering major. they have pressure put on 
liarlinr this season, them by other players." llolloway was forced to miss This year, llollowav was prnclico tim<' for an engineer­named first-team pre-ieason 
ing lab. All-American by Lindy's, as 
"It's already hard enough," well as the seventh-best tight said llolloway. "You have to end in the nation by Sporting focus even harder when you News. miss Urn first couple periods An All-American in high Iat practiceI and have to hit school. Holloway was recruit-
the  ground  ed  by  nearly  
running." Despite the tough course  "I always thought that I was going to be a 6­ every college in the country. He looked serious­ 
I o a d • llolloway has excelled in thn class­ Jfoot/-9 power forward, go to Michigan and be the next Chris Webber.,,  ly at attending Tennessee, Virginia, Florida and  
room  and  on  Stanford,  
llw 11eld. In seven  Jabarl Holloway  before select­ing Notre  
gamr.s  this  Dame.  

season, llollowa.y has made "I think the reason I chose to s11vtH1 rnceptions for 110 come to Notre Dame was yards, scoring two touchdowns because it had a good business a.long tlrn way. lie has split school," said llolloway. "Then time at tight end with senior once I had already committed Dan O'Lnary. to Notre Danrn. I decided that 
"We'n, both striving to be not many people do engineer• Urn lrnsl lhat wti can be and to. ing and I'm the kind of guy provn that we can be an inte· that likes to go out and do gral part of' Uw olTonso," said something different." O'Lr-ary. "That. has marlP us llolloway has made a big bolh bdt1ir players." impact since his freshman 
"As with r.very position," year playing for the Irish, said llolloway. "It's nice to when he played in 12 of 13 have two quality guys that you games. starling six. He had can call on at the drop of' a eight receptions that season, dime." av(1raging 18 yards per rccep-tion. He scored his first touch­down against Stanford, on an 11-yard-pass from quarter­back Ron Powlus, which gave Notre Dame the early 9-7 lead in the game. 

But he also had a tough time adjusting to college life and being 1000 miles from his home in Riverdale, Ga., and his family. 
"I was a long way from home, and I really missed my parents," said Holloway. "I liked the school, but the fact that I was a long way from home was hard." 
By his sophomore year, Holloway had made the transi­tion to lif'e in Indiana. As a sophomore, Holloway was the second-leading receiver !'or tho lrish with 15 receptions. Ile had two touchdowns in the 1998 campaign, with his longest catch being 51 yards. 
Despite his success on thP gridiron. Ilolloway didn't always picture himsA!f becom­ing a college football player. 
"Actually, I wanted to be a basketball player," said Holloway. "I always thought that I was going to be a 6­ffoot]-9 power forward, go to Michigan, and be the next Chris Webber." 
His dream of becoming a college basketball player ended one day when he broke his hand in football practice. The doctor told Holloway, based upon his bone structure, that he would be 6-foot-2 or 3 -if he was lucky. 
"I literally cried for two days. I skipped school for two days," said Holloway. "That's all I thought about." 
Holloway kept on playing basketball through his senior year of high school. IIis high school, Sandy Creek, qualified for the state playoffs his senior year, an accomplishment Holloway considers his great­est personal athletic moment. 
Holloway didn't give up bas• ketball completely. llis book­store team, called Cocoa Butter. advanced to the round of eight last -sprhig. Two mem­

bers of the track team and fel­low football players John Owens, a tight end, and Tony Fisher. a tailback, joined Holloway on the Bookstore team. 
A dangerous player on the football field, llolloway appears f'ormidable ol'I' the field as well, towering over most people at 6-f'oot-4 and weighing in at 260 pounds. However, his size serves as a facade for a nice guy who is reserved and gentlemanly. 
One would be hard-pressed to makr. a bad remark a.bout llolloway, whose talent, work ethic and off-field behavior combitrn to form on!! outstand• ing player. 
If hP keeps making plays like his fumble recovery that won the game against USC. Holloway may someday bn get­ting calls from NFL coaclrns. 
"If God be willing." said IIolloway, he would be happy to play in the NFL. "It's nvnry little kid's dream to make it professionally." 
birthdate: Dec. r8, 1978 field: reserved Noire Dame: It's still to 
hometown: Riverdale, Ga. the people who have helped come. major: computer engineering him the most since he has greatest off the field moment: dimensions: 6-foot-4, 260 been at Notre Dame: his gelling an 'A· in 
up close & 
personal 

pounds parents Calculus 126 
a word to describe him on the favorite class at Notre Dame: Area he would like to improve field: calm Physics 127 as a player: Blocking
WITH JABARI HOLLOWAY 

a word to describe him off the greatest on the field moment at 
·•·-------------­
Friday, October 29, 1999 
1999 MIDSHIPMEN 
Schedule 
Sept.4  GEOftGIA TECH  L49·14  
Sept11  at Kent  W48-28  
Sept18  BOSTON COLLEGE  L 14-10  
Sept.. 2~  _.·~  at Rice  L 20•17  

Oct. 2 Oct. 9 Oct. 23 Oct. 30 Nov. 6 

'm Nov, 13 Nov. 20 
Dec. 4 
at West Virginia W31-28 AIR FORCE L 19-14 AKRON L 35·29 
at Notre Dame at Rutgers 
TULANE at Hawai'I 
vs. Army (Neutral) 
fifth season at Navy 
career record: 
15-19 
at Navy: 
26-26 


page 4 
1999 FIGHTING IRISH 
Aug.28 Sepl. 4 Sept. 11 Spet. 18 Oct.2 
Oct. 9 
Oct 16 
Oct. 80 
Nov.6 Nov. 13 
-Nov. 20 
Nov.27 
Schedule  
KANSAS  W48·13  
atMiohigan  l26-22  
at Purdue  l2H3  
MICHIGAN STAlE OKLAHOMA  L23--13 W34·30  lli  
ARIZONA STATE  W48-17  
USC  W25~24  
NAVY  
at Tennessee  
at Pittsburgh  
BOSTON COLLEGE  
al Stanford  



third season at Notre Dame 
career record: 
20·I2 
at Notre Dame: 
20-12 
against Navy: 2-0 

Roster  
No.  Name  Po•.  HL  Wt.  YR  
l  DekeCooper  FS  6-2  220  SR  
2  Carlos Pierre-Antoine n_H  6-3  245  so  
3  Arna?'. Battle  Qll  6-1  215  so  
4  Jamaar Taylor  WR  6-0  200  FR  
5  A'Iani Sanders  FS  5-10  ·197  SR  
6  David Givens  SE  6-1  217  so  
7  Jarious Jackson  QB  6-1  228  SR  
8  Anthony Brannan  OLB  5-10  215  SR  
9  Raki N;lson  FL  5-11  180  SR  
9  Dwayne Francis  DB  6-0  189  so  
10  Deveron Harper  CB  5-11  187  SR  
11  Jay Johnson  SE  6-0  191  SR  
12  Tony Fisher  RB  6-2  225  so  
13  Nick Setta  KIP  6-0  160  FR  
14  James Caputo  p  6-1  193  SR  
14  DanNovakov  QB  6-3  210  FR  
15  Clifford Jefferson  CB  5-9  182  so  
16  Glenn Earl  DB  6-1  185  FR  
f6  Iohn Shingler  TE  6-2  252  SR  
17  Joey Hildbold  P/K  5-11  175  FR  
17  Jeremy Juarez  FB  5-11  250  JR  
18  Joey Getherall  FL  5-7  176  JR  
19  Jim Sanson  K  5-9  187  SR  
20  Gerome Sapp  DB  6-0  210  FR  
21  Javin Hunter  FL  6-0  185  so  
22  Julius Jones  RB  5-11  185  FR  
23  Chris Yura  RB/DB  5-11  195  FR  
24  Albery Poree  DB  5-10  185  FR  
27  Jason Beckstrom  DB  5-10  185  FR  
28  Donald Dykes  ss  5-11  197  so  
28  Mike Grady  FS  5-11  200  SR  
29  Justin Smilh  FS  5-11  190  JR  
30  Rocky Boiman  OLB  6-4  245  so  
32  Terrance Howard  TB  6-1  193  so  
33  Courtney Watson  RB  6-2  205  FR  
34  Ronnie Nicks  !LB  6-0  240  SR  
35  David Miller  K-P  5-11  190  so  
35  Tim O'Neill  TB  5-5  163  so  
36  Tom Lopienski  F8  6-1  259  so  
37  Ron Israel  ss  6-0  205  JR  
39  Anthony Denman  ll.B  6-2  230  JR  
39  Chris Leck  ss  5-9  192  SR  
40  Jason Murray  FB  6-1  260  JR  
40  Brendan Farrell  !LB  5-9  232  SR  
41  Joe Ferrer  OLB  6-2  235  SR  
42  Shane Walton  CB  5-11  185  so  
44  Grant Irons  DE  6-5  272  JR  
45  Joey Goodspeed  FB  6-0  250  SR  
46  Andrew Dempsey  TE/DE  6-2  252  JR  
47  Mike McNair  FB  6-0  242  so  
48  Johnathan Hebert  SE  5-11  199  SR  
50  Cedric Hilliard  DL  6-3  295  FR  
51  Tyreo Harrison  !LB  6-2  235  so  
52  Jeff Faine  OL  6-3  310  FR  
53  Lamont Bryant  DE  6-3  265  SR  
54  B.J. Scott  C  6-3  285  SR  
55  Jim Jones  0G  6-3  307  SR  
56  Pat Ryan  LB  6-3  220  FR  
56  John Crowther  LS  6-2  245  so  
-57  Justin Thomas  LB  6-2  230  FR  
57  Luigi Rao  LB  5-10  208  JR  
58  Brendan O'Connor  0G  6-2  292  JR  
60  Darrell Campbell  DL  6-4  245  so  
61  Mike Zelenka  FB  6-0  218  JR  
62  Casey Robin  OT  6-7  311  JR  
63  Brennan Curtin  OL  6-8  295  FR  
63  Mike Tribe  rLB  5-10  220  JR  
64  John Merandi  C  6-3  300  SR  
65  Sean Milligan  OL  6-4  285  FR  
66  JW Jordan  C  6-1  277  JR  
67  Ryan Gillis  OL  6-3  315  FR  
68  Matt Brennan  OT  6-6  305  SR  
69  Mike Gandy  oc  6-4  292  SR  
70  Jim Molmaro  DL  6-7  240  FR  
71  NeilAmbron  OL  6-7  275  FR  
71.  Kyan Scarola  OL  6-5  303  so  
74  RobMowl  oc  6-5  295  SR  
75  Kurt Vollers  OT  6-7  299  JR  
76  John Teasdale  OT  6-6  306  JR  
77  Brad Williams  DT  6-4  288  SR  
78  Jordan Black  err  6-6  313  so  
79  Sean Mahan  ITT  6-4  285  so  
80  GaryGndsey  TE  6-7  255  FR  
1,3  Patrick Revnolds  WR  5-11  184  so  
84  John Owe;',,;  TE  6-3  246  FR  
85  Antwan Jones  DT  6-2  283  SR  
85  Mark Rule  WR/QB6-2  218  SR  
86  Dan O'Leary  TE  6-4  260  SR  
81  Jabari Holloway  TE  6-4  260  fR  
88  Bobby Brown  Fl  6-2  19.'l  SR  
89  Gerald Morgan  TE  6-4  261  so  
90  Lane€ Lcgn.>e  DT  6-1  296  SR  
91  N. Vanflook-Dru.cker DE  6-2  271  SR  
94  Andy Wisne  DT  6-3  270  JR  
95  Ryan Roberts  DE  6-2  260  so  
9o  Anthony Weaver  DT  6-3  270  so  
96  Enc Glass  DT  6-4  252  SR  
99  Jason Ching  DE  6-3  267  SR  

The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 
IN POSITION: secondary 


Observer Sraff Repo.n 
Though Navy does not have a Drew Brees or Bill Burke at quarterback, the secondary will still be challenged against Navy's wishbone attack. Though the entire defense will be looked upon to contribute, in particu­lar, the secondary has a major responsibility. 

"Your secondary in a game like this really has a huge role," defenive coor­dinator Greg Mattison said, "They have to check different option respon­sibilities based on their [Navy's] for­mations. That makes it tough on the secondary_" 
Mattison noted the experience of seniors Deke Cooper, A'Jani Sanders and Deveron Harper have had against option teams as a major plus. 

Charlie Weatherbie against Notre 
DE  6-4  258  SR  
UE  6-2  260  SR  
DL  6-1  249  SR  
DE  6-4  257  JR  
DE  6-2  261  so  
NG  6-3  290  SR  
DE  6-6  276  so  
NG  6-2  240  SR  
DE  6-4  265  SR  
.1  
- - - 'I  


No. 1 
2 3 4 5 6 
7 
8 9 
10 
n 
12 
13 
14 15 16 17 1B 18 19 
20 
21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 
34 
35 
36 
37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 
59 
60 61 62 63 
64 
65 66 67 68 69 69 70 71 
72 
73 74 75 76 
77 
7B 
79 
80 81 82 83 84 85 86 86 87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 
97 
98 99 
head coach Dame: 0-4 
Roster 
Name Pos. Ht. Wt. YR Gary Lane FS 5-11 204 SR Dre l!rittangham SB 5-10 181 so Erk:Homa CB 5-8 181 so John Vereen SB 5-10 197 SR Steve Holley S8 6-0 195 SR Bas Williams CB 5-10 186 so !kjuan Cmmer Tl 5 5-10 183 so Brian Madden QB 6-1 210 so John Chavous OLB 5-10 201 SR Ed Malinowski QB 5-11 194 so Travis Williams WR 5-11 194 so JohnCerman WR 5-10 185 JR Brian Bougeois ss 5-9 199 JR Brian Broadwater QB 6-0 194 JR TimShubzda K 6-1 195 SR Chris Oliver s 5-10 197 SR Robert Bums QB 6-2 212 so Marty Soru,ycalb K 6--0 200 jR Marlon Terrell F8 5-8 192 so Harry Spencer WR 6-2 175 so Jason Grant S8 5-10 194 JR Jeff Lam SB 5-8 194 so Terence Coleman SB 6-1 203 so Scott Jones WR 6-1 189 SR Jamie Doffermyre s 6-1 190 SR Pat Haines F8 5-9 209 so Chris Lepore FS. 6--0 196 JR Nikita Benjamin p 5-9 165 JR Davede Alexander CB 5-9 168 JR Mike Wied! CB 5-7 178 JR Loren Evans FB 5-10 175 JR Tray Calisch 5-11 185 SR
p Raheem Lambert FB 5-10 199 so Marcw Jackson CB 5-10 175 so Rashad Jamal SB 5-10 204 so Eric Reed FB 5-11 211 so Matt Brooks FS 6-0 l75 so Zach Otto s 5-10 207 JR Kenyetta Martin LB 6-0 210 JR T.). Mastej s 5-11 204 JR Jeff Gaddy CB 5-11 175 so Roger Grant DE 6-4 242 SR Rashad Jones OLB 6-3 220 JR Josh Bock 58 5-9 183 JR David Bader LB 6-0 207 JR Ken Del Mazo LB 6--0 193 JR Isaac Roland s 5-9 186 JR Matt Daigneault LB 6-1 238 SR Mike McGee LB 6-0 222 JR Earl Fountain OLB 6-0 220 SR Bill Shipley DE 6-3 252 so David Burden LB 6-0 230 JR Shaka Martin OLB 6-2 217 so David Kunda LB 6-0 222 so Jamie Mcilvain LB 6-1 231 SR Daryl Hill LB 6-0 224 JR Justin Cramer OLB 6-2 200 so Justin Hess NG 6-0 260 JR Ryan Hamilton LB 6-2 218 so Matt Orenchuk RR 4-3 300 so Justin Jordan OLB 6-1 223 JR Kostas Hatzidakis OT 6-2 275 SR Dave Joseph DE 6-4 275 so Terrence Anderson C 5-11 285 SR Phillip Yeh 0G 6-3 285 JR John Jeffery 0G 6-4 244 so Doug Martin OS 6-4 244 SR 
L.J. McLaren OS 6-2 235 JR Kevin McCormick 0G 6-3 253 so Patrick Singleton C 6-1 266 SR Eric Bowman 0G 6-3 253 so Kermit D. Frog C 6-2 240 FR Scott Swantner oc 6-5 290 JR Jarrett Davie~ 0G 6-4 275 SR DougHuward OT 6-2 266 SR Kon Winchester OT 6-2 272 JR Chad Adams C 6-2 260 JR Brian Schultz C 6-1 24l so Jerrod Jones NG 6·2 242 JR Nate Olish OT 6-8 265 so Pete Peernocllcr OT 6-5 279 JR Hoot Stahl OT 6-6 279 JR Rion Martin TE 6-3 206 so Brian Williams Ml 181 JR
p Brandon Rampani WR 6-0 197 so Matt O'Donnell WR 6-0 207 SR Ben Langis K 5-7 162 SR Jon Fagins WR 5-7 175 so Billy Hubbard WR 6-1 178 JR Mark Petrillo TE 6-4 245 JR 
Jon Fay 58 5-11 192 SR David Ratenbach TE 6-6 229 SR Dustin Obermeyer WR 5-11 174 SR Michael Wagoner DE 6-3 233 so 
Alex Murray 
Ivan Garvin 
Scott Burton 
Brad Wimsett Ilwerani Nettles 
David Ryno 
Dan Venuto Gino Marchetti 
Brian Gray 
-­

Friday, October 29, 1999 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page S 
EYE ON THE ENEMY 
Madden leads wishbone attack to Notre Dame 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Associate Spores Editor 
Traditionally thn wishbone attack of' the srrvice academies has i,riven the Irish defense trou­ble. In the last four years, Air Force, Army and Navy have all dnalt tho Irish either ,i. loss or a last-second, rniil-biting victory. 
With its complicated blocking, li1ke handolls and multiple rush­ing thrnats, tlrn wishbone is a nightmare for dnfcnsive coordi­nators. Even with an Pntirc sea­son of' film to watch, determin­ing the best way to slop the wishbmw can br-nParly impossi­ble. 
"It's a vnry tough ol'fr.nso to prnpare ror because they have so many different ways that they can hurt you," defensive coordi­nator (ireg Mattison said. 
Whm1 Navy quartrrback Brian Madden leads the Midshipmen into Notre Dame Stadium on Saturday, thn Irish defonsn will be facing a complicated offense lod by an unscouhid quarter­back. Due to an injury to Midshipmen starter Brian Brnadwaler in last week's lc!ss 
to Akron, Madden is starting his first game for the Midshipmen. In his carr,er he has only taken 32 snaps. 
Luckily, Madden is a very sim­ilar quarterback to Broadwater, according to head coach Bob Davie. 
"We made just a tape of, I think. the ;15 lsic] plays he has be11n in there this season," he said. "/\nd he looks similar to I Broadwater!." 
Like Broadwater, Madden is a strong runner who averages more than four yards per carry. In his lirst season on the varsity team, Madden has rushed 21 times for 91 yards, Madden is also an accomplished passer who has completed four passes J'or 39 yards in limited playing time. 
"I think he throws the football, in my opinion, better," Davie said. "Looks like hfl rflally has a strong arm, and that is a con­cern. I mean. they were behind at tho end of the Akron game and he made some great throws. You can look at those throws and can say he has an extremely strong arm. 
"Wishbone quarterbacks are 

_ all very similar, but he seems to be a young guy that can throw the ball extremely well," he con­tinued. "That concerns me." When most teams lose their quarterback, the passing gamP suffers. For Navy, the area most effected by Broadwater's injury will be the running game. Broadwater is the leading rush­er for thP Midshipmen with 6]6 yards on 151 carries and eight touchdowns. Hadden, however, is not with­out talent in the backfield. Rahoem Lambert, Dre Brillingham and John Vereen each average close to 6.0 yards per carry and are all capable of big games. Uaheem is the sec­ond leading rusher oµ the team with 393 yards rushing and three touchdowns. To stop the rushing attack of Navy, Notre Dame must not only stick to its assignments on defense but also attack the offense, according to Mattison. "The defensive line has assign­ment. responsibility," he said. "But they also havfl to be very aggressive. The thing you want to do against an option attack is to get penetration." 

fast facts 
ABOUT 
NAVY 


• 
, 
. 
Location: Annapolis, Md. . Enrollment: 4,000 

. 
Colors: navy blue and gold 

. 
Nickname: Midshipmen 

. 
Conference: Independent 

. 
Fight song: "Anchors Aweigh" 

. 
Mascot: Bill the Goat 


11111 

. 
Notre Dame leads Navy 62·9-1 In the longest continuous intersec­tional rivalry in college football. 

. 
The. Irish have won the past 35 meetings between the two schools. 


. 
The Irish shut out the Midshipmen 30-0in1998. ~ 



.. 
-~· 

( 'Many ND Students choose not to drink. For those who do drink, males average 1 
time a week and females 2 times o month* 
Plllll$ coltotan 

e Student Ce fjftjVersltv of •Based oa rondomly sampled self-rei,ort, 
19) 631-7970 • www.nc:l.edu/ averoQe frequency for oft-campus under9raduotes. 
page 6 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 29, 1999 
Irish experts 

Brian Kessler sports editor 
(19-9) 
NOTRE DAME FLORIDA ALABAMA PURDUE 

Bill Hart associate editor 
(20-8) 
NOTRE DAME 
FLORIDA 
ALABAMA 
PURDUE 

Mike Connolly associate editor 
(20-8) 
NOTRE DAME FLORIDA SOUTHERN MISS. PURDUE 

Tim Casey football writer 
(21-7) 
NOTRE DAME FLORIDA 
ALABAMA 
PURDUE 
AROUND THE NATION 


KEVIN DALUM/The Observer 

The Purdue Boilermakers shut down Tony Fisher (12) and the Irish offense in their 28-23 victory over the Irish on Sept. 11. The 
Boilermakers will have to shut down the Gophers this weekend in a Big Ten battle. 
Florida and Georgia play for tops in SEC East 
By BILL HART Associate Sports Editor 
A clash between fifth-ranked Florida. and No. 10 Georgia for supremacy in the SEC East highlights this weekend's college football action. 
Although Florida is ranked sixth in this week's opening BCS poll, the Gators are barely clinging on to hopes of a champi­onship season after a 39-40 overtime loss to Alabama at the start of the month. Offensive woes have plagued the Gators during the past few weeks. 
In a 31-10 win over LSU, head coach Steve Spurrier was angered so much by the "lack of offensive effort" that he threatened to make them run as punish­ment. A week later against Auburn, five trips into the end zone led to four field goals and an interception in the first half. Still, the Florida defense has prevented opponents from taking advantage. Against the Tigers, the Gators allowed just 80 yards in the first half. 
Despite carrying the burden of a 37-20 loss to the Tennessee Volunteers, the Bulldogs head into Gainesville on a full head of steam. Last week, Georgia wasted no time in scoring against Kentucky, earn­ing 14 points in the first six minutes of the game. The Wildcats stormed back within striking distance late in the second quar­ter, but three unanswered touchdowns put the game out of reach. 
The key to Georgia's versatile offense is quarterback Quincy Carter, who passed for 304 yards and two touchdowns and ran for 84 yards in the victory. Yet the Bulldogs don't rely on just one player for yardage, as six players scored last week. 
Both teams are deadlocked for the con­fornnce division lPad, with identical 4-1 records in conference play a.nd 6-1 records overall. 
No.14 Alabama vs. No. 20 So. Nllss. 
Alabama is eager to get back on the right track after losing to fourth-ranked Tennessee 7-21 last weekend. With a 28­29 loss earlier in the· season to Louisiana Tech, the Title's chances of a BCS bowl practically vanished with the loss. 

But the main concern for the team is the well-being of starting tailback Shaun Alexander and quarterback Andrew Zow. Both players sprained their ankles against the Volunteers, and did not play for the remainder ofthe game. Alexander already has 1,032 rushing yards on the season and is 207 shy of Alabama's career rushing leader, while Zow has started 15 straight games. 
Southern Miss leads the Conference USA with a 4-0 record and is the only ranked school in the conference. Early non-con­ference losses to Nebraska and Texas A&M have hurt the team, however, and placed it out of contention for a BCS slot. Expect a possible early blowout if the Eagles are hot enough. To start Southern Miss' last two games against Army and Cincinnati, the team scored a combined 52 unanswered points. 
No. 18 Purdue at Minnesota 
Two teams coming off last-second losses clash together in this rekindled Big Ten rivalry. 
Having an unranked opponent will be a pleasant change of pace for the Boilermakers, who haven't faced one since Sept. 25. Purdue narrowly lost to second­ranked Penn State, 31-25 last weekend, 
• falling just short of a touchdown in the closing minutes. The Boilermakers have the top offense in the Big Ten, mostly thanks to the work of quarterback Drew Brees and his army of receivers. In the Purdue record book, Brees ranks first in career touchdowns with 57 and fourth iu total offense with 7,142 yards. While Purdue's offense may be tops in the Rig Ten, Minnesota has made a name for itself with the top defense in the con­ference. The Gopher defense is headed by senior strong safety Tyrone Carter, who is on a pace to break the Division 1-A career tackle record and is attempting to become the first repeat All-American Gopher in almost 40 yea.rs. 
Despite having such a strong defense, however, Minnesota fell out of the ranking last week, when a last-second field goal gave Ohio State a 20-17 win over the Gophers. 
. . 4. 
Te Wa 
,c·s., 
..... 
.,. 
·a 
9 10 
11. 
12 · 13 14 ·1s: t6 
• ··...•. if.·.,,_.....· 
· :;:.·:itl\:(· 

Jsi:onsin· 
exas Marshall Alatiama 
Michigatt -IYU 
East Cal'tlJit1a Pu.rctue 
eo 
Wisell 1'exar ......... 
M~all/ 
a~ 
record 
8-0 8-0 
6-0 5-1 6c1 7•0 5-1 7·0 4M 6-1 

6-2 6-2 
7-0 5-2 5-2 6-1 6·1 5-3 
6-2 
5-2: 5•3 5•2 
3,3
4,2·· 5-2 

potnts 
1,733 1,684 1,603 1,515 
. 1.456 1.41f 1,329 1,180 1,180 : 1,072 1,010 992 921 805 649 634 545 511 446 434 3M 264 244 
• 174 

. 171 
votes: NOTRE DAME 
, Syracuse 57, Minnesota i1r10, Clemson 3, Louisiana AirForne 2, Oregon 2, 

.· eseMJU$A Today Poll 
other teaj;jj;fecefoing v:otes: Southern Miss. 
record _po-lnts 
8;-0 1;456 8,,0 l,427 liiO . 1.31>5 5•1 t261 
. 6-1 1,232 7-0 1,199 5-1 1,112 7-0 1,022 6-1 1,021 6-1 941 6-2 862 11-2 786 5-2 729 · 5-2 630 11-1 613 5-2 539 6-t 508 ,. 5°2 
448 s.2 351 &·2 332
.···5.3 
·323 
S.3 245 3-3 .191 .5-2 147 5-2 82 
.,. 

61, Maryland 42, Arkansas 40, Arizona 39, USC 22,
Purdue at Minnesota........ r1 a.m.. ESPN Georgia at Florida....... · ....2:30 p.m., ABC 
Misspurl 1~. Kentuckv 19, Minnesota 15, NC State
around 

13, Washington 12, Boston College 8, Cotorado State 
Navy at Notre Dame........ 1.-30 p.m.. iVBC Florida State at Virginia .....6 p.m., HSPN 
8, NOTREDAIV!fl1;.V1rglnia 8, Colorado 4, Hawaii 3, 
Ore~on3,Wakef"'imisf 2, Fresno Stale 1, Utah 1 
West Virginia at Miami..2:30 p.m., ESPN Ole Miss at LSU .............9 p.m., ESPN 2
the dial 

Friday, October 29, 1999 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 7 
the inside edge 
• 
records: 4-3 
A.P. rank: NR coach's poll: NR 

N 
records: 2-5 
A.P. rank: NR 
coach's poll: NR 
Series Record 

Notre Dame leads Navy 
62-9-I 
• 
quarterbacks: Jarious Jackson, the nation's lhird-rated passer, is playing the best football of his career. Na1Jy quarter­back Brian Broadwater is injured. Hrian Madden makes his.first-ever start. 
running backs: Navy ·s top
• 
two backs have fewer combined rushing yards than the injured Broadwater. ND's Tony Fisher has 511 yards. 
receivers: Notre Dame's 
• 
receit1ing corps has made the most ofits opportunities. The Irish have twice as many receptions. 
offensive line: Navy 
returns three starters, 
• 
including All-American candidate Terrence Anderson. fhe Irish offensive line continues to improve. 

clefensive line: Last week, the Middies recorded a season-high 1 4 tackles for a loss and sPven
EVEN 

sacks. Notre Dame's· big front four should get penetration against Navy's undersized offensive line . 
linebackers: Navy has held three teams under 100 yards rushing. 
• 
Ryan Hamilton is second mt the team with 65 tackles. Rocky Boiman and Anthony Denman lead the Irish. 
secondary: A 'Jani Sanders and Deke Cooper combine for one ofthe best safety duos 
.,, in the country. Navy has just two intercep­tions on tlrn season. Chris Lepore leads the team with 93 tackles. 
EVEN 
• • 

special teams: David Miller's injury may gille Jim Sanson a chance to redeem himself. The loss of Tony Driver hurts the Irish. Navy kicker Tim Schuzf,a has struggled. connecting on just ha(fof his field goal attempts. 
coaching: Bob Da1Jie has coached Notre Dame to three straight victories. Greg Mattison 's defense shutout Navy 30-0 last season. Charlie Wealherbie's record at Navy is 26-26. 
intangibles: Notre Dame is full ofconfidence and coming off a bye week . The Irish have won 35 .~tra.ight against the Middies. A win would make Navy's season. 
... 

Overall 
Notre Dame is obviously looking past Navy to next weekend's showdown with Tennessee.The 
Irish had an extra week to prepare for the Middies wishbone offense. With Broadwater sidelined, Navy doesn't stand much of a chance. Bring on the Volunteers. 

IRISH INSIGHT 

Irish can't look beyond Midshipnien 
Sandwiched between a bye week and the can regain the confidence necessary to stay Increasing the probability that the series Nov. 6 trip to Tennessee -one that could in the game against the fourth-ranked against Navy will continue the way it has for significantly ractor into their bowl bid -it's Volunteers after a loss to a Navv team that the past 35 years is the injury to starting easy to see how the Irish could overlook the couldn't hold a 23-0 lead against Akron. quarterback Brian Broadwater. Sophomore 2-5 Midshipmen. Interestingly, neither the Irish nor the Brian Madden will get his first-ever colle­
But in a season full of 
Midshipmen have been able to play four giate start against tho Irish. An excellent unprudiclability, ono quarters of solid football in their last few runner, he's collected 91 yards on 21 car­thing's certain: tho games. And that's the key for this weekend, ries in relief work this season. Working Irish c1mnot write off and that will be the key for the Irish next behind a Navy offense ihat is seventh in the this week's game weekend. Sure, Notre Dame was stellar in country on the ground, and the Irish could against Navy and the second half against Oklahoma and USC, have their hands full. expf)ct to beat the but they needed to be in order to erase half­But look for the Irish to return the favor Volunteers coming off a time deficits. on the other side of the ball. Converting to a loss -especially to the The one bright spot this season was 3-4 defense this season, Navy has been Middies. agatnst the Sun Devils. Jarious Jackson was unable to stop opponents from rushing.
Anthony

For siarters, Navy is able to throw for four touchdowns, tying a Expect tailbacks Tony Fisher and Julius 
Blanco

one of the few bright school record, while the Irish defense forced Jones to act like children in a candy store if spots on the Irish six turnovers en route to 60 minutes of dom­that's the case. If they can crack the schedule, even after football inance. Midshipmen early on, Notre Dame may only Notre Dame's dismal columnist Sure, the Irish may only need to show up have to put on a one-quarter show. start. It has been for 35 on the field for a quarter against Navy and At least this time it'll probably come straight years, a streak provide the crowd with a nail-bitter in before the Irish fall behind. unmatched in college football. A loss against which they pull out a last-second win, but The opinions expressed in this column are Navy practically guarantees a similar out­try that against Tennessee. Four quarters those ofthe author and not necessarily come a week later. There is no way the Irish may not be enough for the Irish in that one. those ofThe Observer. 
NAVY RECAP 
Navy falls 
to Akron, 
35-29 

Associated Press 
ANNAPOLIS, Md. 

Brandon Payne scored two fourth-quarter touchdowns Saturday to spark Akron to a 35-29 comeback victory over Navy. 
Jimmie Gray scored on an 11-yard run with 6:52 remain­ing to give the Zips their only lead of the game. Akron (6-2) trailed 29-13 after three quar­ters. 
Payne ran six yards for a touchdown with 12:43 remain­ing, then caught a 2-point con­version pass to cut the gap to 29-21. On the ensuing posses­sion Navy was forced to punt into the wind. Payne fielded the kick at his 34, spun away from a Navy defender and broke down the right sideline 66 yards for a score. Another 2-point conversion tied it with 
11:05 to play. 
Navy, which built a 16-0 lead in the first eight minutes, was unable to move tlrn ball in the final quarter. The Midshipmen (2-5) finished the game without starting quarterback Brian Broadwater, who injured his right collarbone early in the third period. Ile stayed in the game, finally giving way to backup Brian Madden after Payne's touchdown run. 
Broadwater threw for two touchdowns and ran for one before his injury. lie combined with tight end Dave Rautenbacb for a 56-yard touchdown in the first quarter, the longest Navy pass play of the season and the first. catch by a Navy tight end this year. Broadwater topped that with a 62-yarder to Brandon Rampani later in the opening period. 
Broadwater's 1-yard run at 

12:50 of the second quarter gave Navy a 23-0 lead. Akron's Lave! Bailey took a pass from Butchie Washington and went 41 yards for Akron's only first­half touchdown. The teams added field goals in the second quarter, and exchanged field goals in the third quarter. 
Navy's best scoring chance in the fourth period was turned aside when Tim Shubzda's 44­yard field goal attempt into a 20 mph wind hit the crossbar. 
.. 
page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, October 15, 1999 
-


.. 

Beginning in September, UNO.com will offer a subscription service called the Irish Insider. 
The Insider will feature: 
• 
Bi-Weekly Bob Davie Column 

• 
Game Analysis 

• 
Player Diaries 

• 
Previews 


• 
Video Playbook from the Coach's Edge 

• 
Exclusive Irish Features 




Also included in the Insider Package: 
• 
Weekly Ticket Giveaways for Football and Men's Basketball Games 

• 
Big East Tournament Ticket Giveaways 

• 
Bowl Game Ticket Giveaways 

• 
Discounts and Coupons for the Notre · Dame Online Store 


Become an Irish Insider!! 
Sign up to become an Irish Insider and receive a Notre Dame t-shirt! The first 500 subscribers will receive a Notre Dame football yearbook! 




