-"'!___________________________ 

A night at the theatre...in r~view 
¦ The 1 !)99 First Year plays are reviewed by The Observer's theatre critic. 
Scene• 13 

THE 
VOL XXXII NO. 116 
¦ 

By ANNE MARIE MATTINGLY As.mci.m· New.~ Edi111r 
l>nspitn great stridns in the last r,iw dncades, tho prover­bial glass ceiling has not yet been hrok1H1. said Carolyn Woo, dnan of thn College of' Businnss /\dministration, on Wt!dnesday in her speech "Worrnm in Leadership:. Is thn (;lass Ceiling Broken'!" 
lnvel of responsibility. "fl fonls very real." 
Woo cited stalistics claiming that within the nnxt live years women will make up 50 percent of tlrn workl'orce. /\t prnsnnt, howovnr. tho top five positions in 25 percent of cor­porations are held by nwn, and in 15 percent of businesses, women am not part ol' the 12 to I!i people who comprise boards of dirnc:lors, Woo said. She also said that ev1m i11 com­parable jobs womon do not rcc1iiv,• Pqual pay. 
"If you look at ort'icors· salaries Lht>n\'s still a clilforen­tial." slw said. "It's about (18 cents lo tlw dollar ... IIt's get­ting lrntter, but! if wn lake a 
--~~-~-----------..----------­
HAPPY EASTER! 
¦ This will be the last edition ofThe Observer before Easter break. Publication will resume on Wednesday, April 7. 
• WWW. N D.EDU/-OBSERVER 
Thursday 
APRIL t 
1999 


Officers bid adieu to the old and welcome in the new 

By ALISON HEINZ News Writer 
During his last day in office, studtml body president Petcr Cesaro addressed tlrn Studenl S()nate with concerns about a thrno-dollar scirvic,\ chargn increase at Kny Bank and slr<'ssed I.he posilive nuLconH' I.hat Slll(lenl involvement can bring to lhc issun. 
"ThC' I\TM in LaFortune is the only Koy l~nk /\TM that dispenses $IO bills in addi­tion to $c0 bills because stud,rnts expressed their wish for that," said Cesaro. 
The Senate passed a r1~solution petition­ing the placcmnnt of Notrn Dame Fnderal Crndit Union /\TMs -which do not add a service charge to users' accounts -in accnssiblP locations, such as North and Soulh Dining Halls. 
Although an NDFCU ATM is locatnd al the new bookstore. students havn expressed dissatisfaction wilh the machine's inctmvPnimit location. 
The NDFCU /\TM at I.he former bookstore will be demolished along with the struc­turn. 
In other senate news: 
• In response to complaints by North and Mod Quad residents that Hnckers is too far away, the senate discussed a resolution calling f'or I.he gulling of' Walsh llall and construction of another student center. complete with a dance floor, fast food chains, study areas and a bowling alley in 
its place. The resolution did not pass. 
• T Im H,isid <) nee Li rn Com 111 it.t1H1 con­lirnwd that tht• Campus Lifn Cnunril Pxam­irrnd lhrnn of t.lw snnntn's four parintal rnvisions. 
Bill Kirk. assistant vic,i prnsidt!llt for Hesidence Life, vot1•d in l"avor of PXtPrHling parietal ho~1rs and providing 24-hour spal:n during brnaks. 
• Various senators rncnivnd awards for their work during thn 191)8-99 t1•rrn. 
Thn Big TPn committ,w and thn 11011-dis­l:rimination committ<w Wfffl' namf'd tlw "Hardest Working." 
Thn lnft-hanclPd dPsk i:ommil.lt>f' was chosnn as "Most S,df'ish," and th1: commit­tee working for morn hikP racks 1i1trrwd the titl11 of "Most l(nvironrn,•ntallv Friundlv." · 
• On 'tlw !WI' of' tlwir first 01'11ci11l day in office, tllf' I IJ91J-2000 stuclPnt hody prPsi­dtrnt and vice Jll'Psid<•nt, Micah Murphy and Mi('h1wl Palumbo. addrPss1icl tlw rur­rnnt and Uw rising senators. pruising l'dnr Cesaro and Andr6a Solak for thPir hnrd work. 
Cnsaro will graduatn in May while SPlak. a junior. will rnmain aclivn in stud1!ni. gov­ernment as acadnmic dnlngatn. 
With fivti rnturning smwlors. tho 1')99­2000 senate has morn nxperioncnd ninrn­bers limn last ynar's group, which had only two returning senators. 
Joe Cassidy will continun in his role as the Student Snnatc government advisor. 

Woo: Glass ceiling still remains 
Teach-in demands 
snapshot al this point in time, and often require risk-taking them's still a disparity." and making hard choices. The 
Catholic solutions to 
Woo attributed the male percoplion of women works monopoly in some high-rank­against them in obtaining ing companies to a number of those types of'jobs, Woo said. factors. The first, she said, is "There's a perception that 
sweatshop problemswomen's style, explaining that women don't ·handle tough women are perceived as sup­decisions as well las menl," 
By CHRISTINE KRALY
portive, cmpatlrntic, nurturing she said, describing line posi­
Assistant News Editor

and detail-oriented. tions as jobs in which an employee must face ­Notre Dame wants to make sure its apparel is produced in a
numerical data on a 

manner "consistent with the ICatholicI ·Church's t11achings," said
regular basis to deter­'THE GLASS CEILING IS 
sweatshop task force chairman William Hoye at tlw No Sweat
"Tho glass cniling is 
mine if goals arc being 
Teach-In Wednesday night.
not quit11 shallnrnd," met.
NOT QUITE SHAT­
According to lloye, the University is trying to abolish sweatshop
slw said, nxprnssing thn Staff positions.
TERED. IT FEELS VERY REAL.' 
use in the manufacturing of its consumer merchandise and is
snntimont that womnn unlike line positions, 
"searching for the righl solutions Ito the problem Iconsistent with
leadnrs in busirrnss and do not require this 
the [ideals! of a Catholic inslilution."
rnanag,)mcnt often constant accountabili­
CAROLYN Woo 
Several speakers offered explanations at the teach-in, spon­
cx1mrinnce tho inability ty, explained Woo. She 
sored by /\mnesty International, University College Dnmocrats
Dl:'AN, COLI.EGH OF BUSINESS
to ris,! above a certain described these posi­
and the Progressive Student Alliance, on how the University is
ADMINISTRATION tions as support jobs 
"Womnn are very good in terms of follow through and detail. (The perception is that) women are not comfortable with conflict and conl'ronta­tion," she said. "Whether it is pnrceived, whether it is real, this is the characterization ol' women." 
Woo said that this perception tends to causn women lo be mnployncl in what she called staff positions rather than in li1w positions, which are more oftnn !mid by men. Line posi­tions include jobs such as man­aging sales or dowrrnining how a product will be marketed, dealing with the issue of sweatshops.
and listed the fields of Father Oliver Williams, management professor and f'ellow of

public relations, 

the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, said it is
human resource management, "embarrassing" that there is an ongoing debate about the labortechnical support and account­conditions of sweatshop workers, especially concerning thcir liv­ing as examples. 
ing wages.

"Women tfmd to go into staff "[There isl absolutely no mason wn can't press theso compa­functions and, when they are nies [into raising the wages!," he said.
in leadership positions, it's in 
The living wage of a laborer, according to the speakers. is astaff positions," she said. "They wage on which a worker would b11 able to maintain a stable liv­
are further away from where ing. The difficulty in maintaining a specific living wage, saidthe heat is." 
Hoye, is that the cost of living differs in various countries wlrnr<)
Different networking styles Notre Dame apparel is manufactured. This can lead to problems
also contribute to the glass 
in underpaying workers.
ceiling problem, said Woo. 
Notre Dame will be monitoring not only the living wages of
"Women are very good at labor workers. hut also their minimum ages and saf'e working
developing their internal net­conditions, as a now mnmbnr of tlrn Fair Labor /\ssociation.
works," she said, explaining 
The group, consisting of 16 other colltigos including Duko and
that women develop sirong see CEILING/ page 4 
see SWEATSHOP/ page 4 

i 
I I 
I 
I I 
r 
I i 
I 
I 
page 2 
¦ lrJsmE CotuMN 
Intellectual Impotence 
When it comes to discussing political issues, 
I've always considered mysflffair. I make 
every attempt to hear each side and usually 
have a clear understanding of opposing view­
points. Unfortunately, 
this is not the cas!' with Dustin Ferrell 
abortion and its propo-Assiscanc Viewpoint Editor 
nents here on campus. 
Specifically, recent outcries in the case of the 
Women's Resource Center have really brought 
some issues out of the woodwork. l give full 
credit lo Catriona Wilkie, who tried tirelessly to 
get it through to several parties that she had 
been referred to an abortion clinic at the WRC. 
One individual still questions whether-or not 
the incident occurred. Clearly, a Ph.D. doesn't 
guarantee attention to detail. 
These individuals, representing both the fac­
ulty and student body, found it necessary to 
grace us with their views on the WRC issue. 
The faculty member openly questioned Ms. 
Wilkie's allegations, indicative of someone who 
wouldn't believe the evidence ifit "hit him 
squarely in the face." Ms. Wilkie did an excel­
lent job of explaining herself and certainly 
doesn't need my help. 
A recent student letter also attacked the 
issue with a heart-warming approach. In an 
ironic twist, the author thanked God for abor­
tion rights. That comment opened up the 
remainder of the letter for a bitter tirade 
directed at the pro-life movement. The author 
expressed the belief that maybe what Ms. 
Wilkie's friend needed was an abortion. What 
a wonderful thing to say to somebody. How 
anyone could make such a statement is beyond 
me. I pity the fool who trivializes abortion in 
this matter, relegating it to a simple choice ­
like what to eat for breakfast. 
The real clincher came when the author 
alluded tn pro-lifers as men who obviously 
wernn't having sex and who were attempting 
to tell women what to do with their bodies. 
Although any remaining credibility in the letter 
immediately vanished. I still thought a lot 
about the comment. I don't knnw if I can make 
it any clearer: No one is telling women what to 
do with their bodies. !lather, they are telling 
women what to do with the life that a woman 
supports, since it is in fact a life, not just some 
useless tissue mass. 
I find it interesting that people like this rally 
around the right not to conceive, a right we all 
supporl. 01' course, by abstaining from inter­
course in the first placn, one could easily make 
this choice. Once the lifo has been created. any 
choice is dearly murder. 
Seeing as how the pro-choice argument 
remains weak and tcrminallv llawed in its 
most basic form, some have ~edirected their 
efforts to personally attacking the pro-life 
movem(mt. One columnist n~cently associated 
Hight to Lifo and similar groups with murder­
ers who gun down abortion doctors. This argu~ 
ment takes on an extreme rather than focusing 
on the mainstream movement. That is nothing 
short of cowardice. 
Another column recently chided the Right to 
Lifers because of their emphasis on abortion 
and not on capital punishment. I realize that 
we can't all excel in mathematics, much less 
addition. Hut most of you realize that the num­
ber of abortions far exceeds executions. 
Hegardless of which side you take, that num­
ber has great significance. 
The arguments pushed by the pro-abortion­
ists have hurt their cause more than anything 
else. If any rational pro-choice persons exist, 
wait for them to voice their opinions, instead of 
making yourselves look incredibly foolish. 
The 1•ieu•s expressPd in the Inside Column 
are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
¦ TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Scene  
Maggy Tinucci  Julia Gille:;pie  
Matthew Smith  Graphics  
Erin Piroutek  Crisrin Manarv  
Sports  Production  
Katie Miller  Kerry Smith  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
A,J. Boyd  Pete Richardson  

\'he Oh,rn•er (USl>S 599 2-4000) is publi,hed Monday through l'riday CKcept <lur,n~ exarn :md vacation period~. The Observer is a member of rhe A\,ociarcd Pres!\. All reproduc1ion righc~ .ire rt,crvcJ. 
The Observer• INSIDE Thursday, April 1, 1999 

utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wirc reports 

Students keep in touch with Serbian relatives via e-mail 
N0HMAN, Okla. 

Srdan and Bojan Kalajdzic are able to communicate with friends and fam­ily in their native Serbia even though the area is engulfed in war and vio­len.ce, 
Srdan, an architecture graduate student, and Bojan, a business admin­istration sophomore, said that without e-mail they would probably not know what the situatio.Q was in their home­land. 
"Certainly judged by the American standards, the two of us are currently very poor," Srdan Kalajdzic said. "We can't have any financial support from home because of the war, and what­ever we make here is what we have. 
"Unfortunately, that would never be enough for us to make daily phone calls to Serbia, So e-mail and Internet allow us to do miraculous things and to be well informed about the current situation of om· family and in our 

Andy Horton, a film and video stud­ies professor, has also exchanged e­mails with friends in Belgrade, the Yugoslav capital. 
He said friends have asked him tu pass messages on to loved ones living outside the Balkans. 
"I would like to think this kind of communication is going to be one part of the solution," Horton said. 
"This rapid communication is very democratic. The police and the dic­tators cannot stop this. E-mail is working much better to B,~lgradP than phones are." 
Balkan-centered chat rooms have been filled the past few days with people trying to find out about the safety of their friends and family. 
Srdan Kalajdzic said that while e­mail has allowed him to make sure of' the safety of his family, the instant communication can also cause added anxiety. 
He mentioned an e-mail from one friend in which the friend told him the bombs were falling and he had to go. 
"Gn where, when I know that there are no bomb shelters in his neighbor­hood?" 
Srdan Kalajrlzic said. "I could imag­ine everything, his room where we have spent hours and hours studying for tests in high school, deserted streets of my hometown, my mom and my dog probably in panic a few miles away, everything." 
¦ UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVAfvN!J'.\ Students hold enthusiastic beer rally 
PHH ADELPHIA 

Engaging in chants of "What do we want? Beer! When do we want it? Now!" between approximately 800 and 1,000 students gathered on campus Tuesday afternoon to protest the recent decisions made by the administration regarding the University's alcohol policy. The predomi­nantly undergraduate protesters -who chanted and held up signs comparing the administration to Soviet Russia and its new policies to Prohibition -were enthusiastic in expressing their disapproval of the implementation last Thursday of new temporary restrictions that ban alcohol at registered undergraduate events. "Take away my alco­hol, I'll take away my tuition," one student's sign read. Another student challenged police, saying, "Cite me, I'm sober," while another declared, 'Tm drunk right now." The afternoon had the atmosphere of an outdoor fraterni­ty party, as music blasted from speakers. 
¦ STANFORD Ul\!!VERSlTY Health care eliminates 2,000 jobs 
STANFORD, Calif. 

In response to a first quarter operating loss of $10.7 
million and prospects of continuing budgetary shortfalls, 
UCSF-Stanford Health Care announced a plan Monday to 
eliminate 2,000 jobs. Cutbacks will be made in two 
rounds. In the first round 1,250 positions will be eliminat­
ed and 725 positions will be eliminated in the second. All 
cuts will be completed by late August. As many as 800 
workers will be laid off, while other positions will be elim­
inated through attrition. The reductions in workforce are 
part of USHC's plan to trim $170 million from its operat­
ing budget and reach a balanced budget by the beginning 
of the 2000 fiscal year. Administrative employees will be 
most directly affected by the layoffs. USHC plans to cut 40 
percent of employees in central administrative services. 
Hospital support staff will be cut by 28 percent. Lassiter ·said that the reductions should not affect quality. 
¦ Omo STATE Ul\!lVERS!TY Students fall victim to scam 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 

Over spring break, two Ohio State students fell victim to a scam and wound up being held against their will and robbed by a suspect who was later arrested on the vic­tims' front porch. Tony Niccoli and Kevin Callison. both sophomores, said nn the morning of March 23 a suspect, later identified as Shawn Fedrick, 20, knocked on their apartment door. Callison answered and Fedrick said h!1 was looking for their roommate who had tlrn car with Urn Beastie Boys sticker, the roommates said. Niccoli said Fedrick told Callison he owed onn of' his roommates money because a deal went bad in the sale of' a Sony PlayStation and that he was returning the money. Callison went to his bedroom and Fedrick used tlrnir restroom before confronting Niccoli. f<edrick entered the living room. "He asked if I had ever b!icn shot b1\f'orn." Niccoli said. Fedrick then asked him for money. 
¦ PR!NCHON UNIVERSlTV President favors ending nude olympics 
PHINCET0N, N.J. 

University President Shapiro spoke out in favor of' tlw Committee on the Nud(1 Olympics· rnport in an interview Tuesday, describing the proposed plan l'or banning tlw event as "a very thoughtful approach to the issun." Shapiro said hfl will continue to rnview the details of' thP report over the next few days in prPparation for a meeting of the university board of trust(rns latii rwxt wePk. However, he said his initial reaction to tlw proposal was positive. If Shapiro and the trustees approv1i Urn wording of the report, it could become university policy by tlw beginning of next year, he said. Shapiro said he agreed with the general language used to describe futuri1 offcnsns relating to the Nude Olympics. "As the Supreme Court has said, 'Some things are hard to describe, but you know it when you see it,"' he said. "I think people both who am participating will know what they're watching." 
¦ SOUTH BEND WEATHER ¦ NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
Ac<.:uWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
H L 

Wednesday ~y 68 47 Thursday ~69 51 Friday ~63 47 
! 

Saturday ~61 47 Sunday ~56 40 
Q,r.Q,Q9,QQ_~ ~ u 
Showers T-storms Rain Flumes Snow /cf! Sunny pt. Cloud.v Cloudy 
V/1 Associated Press GrsphicsNet 

Viti Associated Press 
Albany  65  40  Dallas  85  60  Miami  80  70  
Atlanta  73  53  Kansas City  78  57  New York  61  ·51  
Austin  85  63  Lake Elsmore 64  43  Pittsburgh  67  50  
Buffalo  66  49  Los Angeles  60  48  San Francisco 65  43  
Burlington  56  36  Manchester  67  37  Seattle  53  34  

Thursday, April I, 1999 The Observer. CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
ND Folk Choir lYill air on ABC stations Easter morning 
\pcual lO rhc ( )l,,crvcr 
TIH· l111ivPrsily Folk Choir, assPmhkd nwmlrnrs ol' tlw slu­dPnl hodv and tiw Basilint of' tlw Sat:r(•d lll'art will he foaturns or a lP!l:vision program liliPCI "l•:asuir at the Univnrsity of' NoLri• llanw: i\ t:PIPhration of' flopp" Lo lw airncl Sunday morn­ing 011 /\BC t1dPvision af'liliatns nationwicln. 
Tlw program. originally 1iroackast last liastnr on NBC, also will Ill' hroadrasl Sunday al 4 p.m. 011 tlw national cabin chan­111•! Oclysiwy. 
Tlw progra111 of' sarrl'rf music f'or FastN is a projnct or llin 
U.S. bishops· C:atholil' Communication Campaign. l'rodur.ed by t;oldnn 1101111• l'rodtwtions, tlw program was tapncl last March during morning and alfornoon Eastnr sessions. Fatlrnr Harry Srhlilt of tlw /\rrhdiocPSP of' San Francisco servns as tlw pro­gram's hosl and narrator: 
Tilt' i:astnr program includns music writl•m by the Cistnrcian monks r,(' GPlhs1im1wi Ahb1•y in Kentucky, the Our Fatlwr cus­tomarily sung by LhP Folk Choir at Mass, a now solling of' ".Jpsus <:hrisl is Hist•n Today" by composer Steven .Janco, a C:Pltir Allt·luia and a varinty of' sacrnd songs from churches in i\frira and I.atin i\nwrica. 
ThP Folk Choir. fornwd in 1980 and directnd by Steven W11r1H'r. assoriatn dirt•ctor of Campus Ministry, provides music l'or Lim hasili1:a's 11 :45 a.m. Sunday Mass during the school y11ar. 
Tlw choir. whirh indudns somn 55 main and female singers and woodwind, slring and 1wrcussion instruments ranging l'rom rnngas to an Irish bodhran. has toured in lrnland and l!ngland. Till' group JH1 rformncl for Pope John Paul II at World Youth Day in l)pnvnr. 
The Observer wishes you a happy and safe Easter weekend. 

(~you think you know us...think again) 
CIGNA wants lo dispel some myths about working in insurance. Like the one that soys "insurance is boring and predictable." The truth ~' careers al CIGNA offer so many opportunities for fun, challenging work, you won'! hove time to be bored. 
Our business is global benefits.. from health care and investments lo protecting lives and busines.ses, we touch people in more wrr-;s than anyone in the industTy. And we ore among the best ot ~. too. 
w._ Then there ore our employees. People who distinguish 

~themseNes!hrough talent and dedication. We nurture them with unique professionol development pmgroms that allow individuab lo grow ocrnrding lo their strengths and interests. 
Many of our top managers came up through these programs to become key contributors to our success. 
We've also been hon01ed by publications such as lhe Block Collegian, Hispanic MD!Jazine, ond Corem &the cttsABLED as among the lop companies for promofing workpiece diversity. 
final~, though, we do hove one thing in common: To moke adifference every day in the lives ol the people we serve. 
If this sounds to you like agood place to work, we'd like to meet. To fa'Kl out more, visit us on the Web or speok to one of our on-campus representatives. 
Enjoy Your Spring Break! 

One CIGNA: Many Opportunities. 
We're mequd awoornilY ern~yer. M/f/0/V. 'CIGNA' referi to CIGNA (IM1)0lll!D'ood/er ooe «mc,e d ~ ~Most~1118 employed by subsdories cl CIGNA CO!J)Olotioo, which provide irruonce and rekited'proirum 
www.dgna.co111 
a· 


CIGNA 
A Business ofCaring. 


Fun in the Sun 
Special to The Observer 

Edward Conlon, the Edward Fredrick Sorin Society prol'essor of management at the Notre Dame, has been appointed editor of The Academy of Management Review, making Notre Dame home to two 
of' the leading journals in thn field. 
A member of the University's faculty since 1992, Conlon will serve as editor-elect of the journal from .July 1-Dec. 31 and as editor for the following two years. 


Hobo rt Vecchio, the Conlon Franklin Schurz prol'cssor of management, is the editor or the Journal of Managnm1rnt. 
Thn Academy of Management Heview is orrn of the two journals published by tho Academy and ranks in the top 20 among the 343 jour­nals of most interest to business faculty. according to thu Social Science Citation Index Journal. 
Its mission is to b1i the outlet ol' choice for the publication of theory in thn fiold of' man­agement. 
Conlon joined the University faculty in 1992 after prnviously teaching and conducting research at the University of Iowa and the Gecirgia Institute of Technology. 
lie earnnd a bachelor's degree in psycholo­gy from Pennsylvania State University in 1972 and master's and doctoral degrees in organizational behavior from Carrrngie Mellon University in 1975 and 1977, r(isper.­tively. 
Conlon spocializns in tlrn study of' organiza­tional behavior, organizational clPsign. dnci­sion-making and conflict managPnwnt. 
STUDENT \t~NTED 
Work approx. 10 hrs. a week 

Must have knowledge of Macs & related Mac programs 
Prefer Sophomores Please apply in person by 16 April 1999 
in the Reilly Center, 346 O'Shag 

Qu1cKOs 

233-6000 
. ND to Michiana Regional Airport; One Person $8 More than 1, $5 each 
. ND to Entertainment Arca: One Person $5 More than 1, $2 each 
-Wailing Time 10-15 minutes. 

HJ\PPY EJ\STER! 

"RIDE SAFE, SAVE MONEY!H" 
r--------,


:$2.0Q OFF 
I 
EACH TRIP 

I 
I QUICK CAB I 

233-6000

I I I I I I
L--------.J 
¦ SECURITY BEAT 
FRI., MARCH 19 

12:29 p.m. A Dillon Hall resident was transported lo St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of a sports Injury. 
f>'.46 p.m. A Breen-Phillips resident reported the theft of her tocked bike from a bike rack at Breen-Phillips. 
6:47 p.m. Security transported an O'Neill Hall resident to Memorial Hospital for treatment of a sports injury. 
9:15 p.m, Security cited an off• campus atuden! for disregarding a stop sign on Holy Cross Drive. 
SAT,, MARCH 20 

1:OO a.m. Security issued a University citation to an O'Neill Hall resident tor minor consumption of alcohol. 
5:45 a.m. Security issued four University citations to O'Neill Hall res1• dents for minor consumption of alco­hol. 
SUN., MARCH 21 

1:30 a.m. Security issued a University citation for minor consump­tion of alcohol to a Keenan Hall resi­dent. 
2:15 a.m. Two Keough Hall resi­dents were issued University citations for minor consumption of alcohol. 
2:34 a.m. Security issued two University citations tor minor con­sumption of alcohol to Sorin Hall resl• dents. An Alumni Hall resident was transported by Sscurity to the University Health Center for treatment ol a sports injury. 
page4 The Observer. CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, April 1, 1999 · 
Hoye, was the first U.S. uni­ers' approval and morn fearful "You will shortchange your­versity to establish a code of 
of rejection than their male self if you get so upset with the


Sweatshop Ceiling
conduct for its licensees, and counterparts. "Approval, affir­one door that is closed to vou 
may be the ·only school
continued from page I continued from page 1 mation and so on i.s very that you can't get excited about 
involved in both thP FLA and 
important." all the other doors that are llarvard, was formed by the AAMA. relationships with co-workers, Women seeking top positions . open to you," she said. Appart>l Industry Estimated costs for Notre "but women are not very good also have to confront what Instead, she said, the solu­
Partnership. The AIP, appoinled by President Clinton, regulates sweatshop conditions in the U.S. and abroad. "I don't know how [how the FLA will work] because it hasn't really start­er! yet," said Williams. "Let's sr.e how it works out." Part of lhf\ FLA's mission lo nnd unfair labor practices includes regular inspections or factories and allowing cor­tni n worknrs the right to organize. The group, lwwev­cr, does not enforce a "living wage" for manufacturing companies. The FLA is made up of colleges am!  Dame's sweatshop monitor­ing programs are around $75,000. "A shirt we [the University! sell l'or $20 probably cost us $2," said Williams, adding lhal consumers "really ought to use our consumer power" to f'orce manufacturers to improve working conditions. '"[II encourage you [the con­sumcrsJ to fight." "ll has to come from you," said assistant professor Patricia Davis, also a l'cllow of tho Kroc Institute. Davis said that monitoring ma11uf'acturing companies is a good strategy, but that govern- with external nelworking." To the contrary, men are bettor at developing relation­ships with outside contacts like bankers, investors and mem­bers of the chamber of com­rnerce, according to Woo, who noted that these types of con­tacts are more important as one moves up the corporate ladder. She also attributed the lack of female representation in top positions to the fact that women are socialized differ­ently than men from an early age. "IWomenl are really brought up to please," she said, noting .that women tend to be more _conrernl;)d about earning oth- Woo termed the work/life bal­ance, and the desire to place more emphasis on the latter has dissuaded some from pur­suing advanced degrees and high-ranking jobs. "Women still have to make decisions about where their families lit in all this," she said, noting that the numbnr of !'omalc \1BA students has fall­en in recent vears. "Wlrnre do children. lamlly, work. prof'es­sional and personal satisfac­tion all lit together?" Woo also 1m1phasizt~d that when today's women bu111p into the glass ceiling tlwy should get in touch with their own talents and they should not give up.  tion may he to change the way women perceive themselves. "What is the worth of' some­one else's approval? ... In the end of it, it's about the ability to take risks and to go into a situation," she said. "Part of' learning to be tough is learning to be measured. When you don't makl\ your numbers. ynu don't die, crumble and fade away, Tfrnrn's anotfrnr month to sliow what you can do." Woo joined llic Notrn Dame faculty in 1997. Prior to hnr work at tlrn llnivt~rsity slw scrvnd as tlrn associate vic(i president ol' Academir Affairs at PurduP Univprsity. She has recBivPc.l nuurnrous awards in various areas of education.  
universitir.s  'UNLESS YOU VISIT THESE  m  en  t  .~  

and also 
COUNTRIES YOU HAVE enl:orcmnent ----·...........--iiiiiiiilla•·~_.";..._..,;...=.,·-----------------------------.
h u m a n agencies are r'ights orga­NO SENSE OF HOW WELL. WE grossly n i z at i o II s under­
ARE, AND HOW POOR THE:Y 
The Keough Institute for Irish Studies 
and union staffed and 


ARE.'

groups, all many firms working to get away abolish with unfair 
FATHER OUVE'f/ Wll.LIAM8 practices
sweatshop 
Presents a lecture 

labor. MANAGE!v/EN1' P!WFBSSOR without ever 
"We find it b e i n g fthe FLA] to inspected. 
Yeats and the Modernist Moment 
IH1 a cred-Companies itable process," said lloye. shield themselves from legal who stressed tlrn importance liability by hiring indepen­or recognizing human rights dent contractors to hire and 
by 

groups as follow members. assign wages, she said. Nike, One demand the University for example, hires contrac-
John Kelly

is voicing through the FLA is tors to manufacture its prod­full disclosure of all the man­ucts and therefore doesn't 
The O'Donnell Visiting Chair ofIrish Studies, 1998-99 uf'acturers producing Notre answer to labor misconduct Dame apparel. Without this charges. information, monitorfog "No code of conduct will sweatshop labor is nearly ever be a panacea," said impossible. Hoye. "[It's) not going to be 
7:00 P.M. 

A concern about disclosure, perfect [but the University is I 
April 7, 1999 

according to Hoye. is that it struggling with the major 
Center for Continuing Education Auditorium 
could put students traveling issues this represents." abroad to manufacturing "flave we gone far enough? sites in danger. No," he said. "Can we go fur­
Professor Kelly is the General Editor of The Collected Letters ofWB. Yeats in 12 volumes, 3 
To date, no known licErnsee ther'? Yus." has b,'lrn terminated from "Unless you visit these 
ofwhich have appeared (1986-97). He is also General Editor ofthe Woodstock Books series manufacturing, said lloye. countries. you have no sense 
ofreprints ofnineteenth century Irish rexts, seven volumes ofwhich have appeared between 
Notre Dame is also partic­of how well we are, and how 
1996-97. He is a leading authority in Yeats, in nineteenth century Irish literature and in the 
ipating in the American poor they are," said Williams. Apparel Manufacturers "This is not a Democratic 
history of the Irish Revival. John Kelly is currently Professor ofEnglish at St. John's College, Association, which is a group cause or a Republican 
Oxford. 

aimed at certifying compa­cause," he said. "This is a nies within the legal confines human cause, and I think
everybody can agree on , ________________________________________. 
or the government's labor 
laws. The Univ1!rsity, said 


Xeep the Ecrrth 
in mini'. 




06server. 
that." 

r-~----~------------, 
I

LARGE PIZZA I
Cheese & 1 Topping 
I I I 






95 I I 

NO LIMIT 
ONL\' I 
I 

~Plus Tax Where Applicable. Excludes other oilers. r L~~1::r~x~o~~~:!tr~5~9:_ ___!1:!0.J 
S.R. 23 (East of Ironwood) 
(Serving Notre Dame Area) 

24-3-""I 1 -a ""I 
Oil'. CAI.I. rffE MARCO'S PIZZA NEARESr YOU! 

Thursday, April I, 1999 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
¦ WORLD News BRIEFS 
Scientists find DNA conducts electricity 
BASEL. Swit.r.crland 

Strands of ll:'-Jt\ might sonwday be usnd as wir<•s in compulPr chips and transistors. a study sugg<·sls. llans-Wnrnor Fink and Cl!rislia11 Sr.l!m,rn•11lmrg<\r of the University of llasl'I in SwilzC'rland found that DN/\ conducts Pl•·drir.ity and is a good semiconductor. t\ sP1111i:rn11!11c:tor i:arriP-; Plnr.tricity b!'lt1!r limn an i11sulator but not as wPII as a conductor like rnppPr. If l>N/\ strands muld bn madn with a switrh to turn tlw r.ulTt'lll !lowing through tliP111 011 and o['f'. tlwv ,,,Hild lw us<•d lo build PXlri-mP{y tiny 1·l;•rtrirnl dcvic!\S, the rPs1!a1Tlll'rs said. Fink said lw knows of no 1111•tallir win·s that 1·a11 lw uwdc ,LS small or as rPgtilar as Dr\/\ strands. 
Lovers stoned to death 
NEW Dl•:LJII, India 

hi'tP1•n villagPrs hav1• lwPn charg<)d with stabbing and stoning lo death a young coupln \\'ho ran off togPtlwr and rduscd to disavow tlwir ti1•s, a nmvspap<'r rPport!id WPd1rnsday. Thi• rouplP was killPd Tuesday and their bod­it)S W<!ni drnggml to a crmnation ground and sl'l 011 fin) oulsidP the villag<i of Shimla in tlw nortlll'rn Indian statP of I laryana, about 120 mi!Ps west of N!)W Delhi. Des llaj. 23, and Nirmala. 17. ran away last week and sought slwltcr in llw housn ol' a relative, the newspa­per said. Tiu• man reportedly informed their famili!)S, wlrn pressured them to split up and niturn to their n!spnctive homes. When Haj rPfusPd to i<•ave Nirmala. tlrn mattnr was put hdhrn th<' villag(i rnundl. Baj was summcmnd to a villagt! assPmhly and. with the approval of his family, lwatt•n to cl1!alh with stonos and sti,,ks in front of hundrnds of' people. Af'lc-rwards. Nirmala was rnpnalmlly stabbed. 
Lewinsky investigation bill totals $6 million 
WASIIINGTON 

lnd1!pP1Hlt•11t CnunsPI K!mndh Starr sp<'nt morP than $(i million on tlw Monica l.1•wi11sky scandal. and tlw ovPrall invustiga­t ion of' l'n•sid1•11I Clint.on is bncoming tlrn 11111st 1•xpPnsivP in history. 1:ongn•ssional auditors rPporll'd Wndnosday. The lat1,sl lig­un•s. fol' t.lw six-month pnriod 1mding S!•pt. :Ill. I </<JX. bring tlw total cost of' Starr's 4 1/2­y(:ar inquiry of' tlH• president and Hillary Hodham Clinton to nnarly $40 million. Starr rPpla!'l'd Hobut i:iskn. who spPnt $6 million. Tl11• most nx1wnsivn irHl!'pnndent counsel i11vPstigatici11 i1J dain W/lS Lawrc'nce Walsh's $48.:i 111illio11, six·yi!ar probP of the lfoagan ad111i11istraiio11 rPgarding its arms-for­lwstag!'s dt•als with Iran and its s1•cret war ;1gainst th1• communist-Incl govnrnrnc\11( of' Nicaragua. ltqwrls by th!' Cennral 1\c1·ounti11g Ol'ftcP show that tlm cost of inves­tigating top administration o!'ficials during tlw Clint,111 ,·ra now tops $7(, million. 

1286.37 
Composite
-!OH 
Volume: 
-127.10 728,SOll,OIIII 

VOLUME LEADERS 

CPMtMiY  'l'ICID  ,  £11195  I 9lrlN  DWI  
, i>vi·, c..iNI; I'll: l.: M,·!.,': A.Mfl, t'JNLtNt. r,~; i'i,MP-lrl'tR rf 1i-1'.'···Fr,11t:1 ORM:U f'UIU'  PW', AO!. [i?:: l. l,l':if1 nHt'L  ~. 4.1 l. ifl tl. "11 .:, L,R;! l,6J · 1. fl4  _,, 2500 -.~ 1SOO •2, 5000 -1,l OO"iO 3 3800 ·, 49'50  21 }':) .15 00 10.1,00 40 qR 99 ,2 26. 3B  
,"i1Mf'AQ ('•l,'1J?ll'T'FR  C'f'(,)  I .111  -5625  31. 75  
nr:·:1AVL-i.UNt. I' ..;~1) SYS'Tt-;~•­MUt!l L1•!,f. l.1 lN!.  ZI.U, l'SCU MZON  tll'l.4'1 -, 34 • S 2 , RO  • l J .0000 -, l7'7S t'S 9400  Jti .00 t09. 5& 17 19  


AFP Photo Yugoslav employees of the Sloboda household appliances factory in Cucak, a town about 150 kilometer~ southwest of Belgrade, attempted to salvage items from the rubble. More than 20 missiles were fired at the factory. according to the state agency 
NATO attacks, pledges 'no sanctuary' 
ASSOCIATED PHESS Mediterranean. war-era atrocities -an Commissioner for Hefugees 
With hints from Western announcement seen as a said Wednesday. 
BELGRADE diplomats that NATO warning signal to Milosevic "The human mind cannot 
Widening its air assault bombs and missiles could about what legal action imagine what they are on Yugoslavia, NATO soon be raining down on awaits him and other doing them," said Sabri pounded largels the Yugoslav capital of Yugoslavs for their actions llajzeri, 30, a painter who Wednesday near a major Belgrade, NATO spokesman in Kosovo. was among the first group Kosovo city and vowed Jamie Shea reiterated on Thousands more refugees of refugees from Pristina, there would be "no sanctu­Wednesday that the from the province poured the capital. to cross into ary" for Yugoslav forces alliance's insistence that across the frontier /\lbania. trying to rid Kosovo of eth­Yugoslav security forces are Wednesday into neighbor­Thn Yugoslav governmc1nt nic Albanians. bent on purging Kosovo of ing countries that am insisted, however, that 
With the air campaign both ethnic Albanians and already overwhelmed by NATO's attacks had pro­against President Slobodan their culture. Kosovo Albanians who have voked the refugee exodus. Milosevic 's forc1\s entering Shea said Yugoslav forces ned their homes since the The main victims of' its its second week, Western were destroying archives NATO bombing began bombs were civilians, it of'ficials acknowledged that including property deeds, March 24. said. NATO's missil!is and bombs marriage licenses. birth Long lines of refugees "Because of t.lw bombs of had so far failed to stop certificates and financial formed at the borders or tlrn aggrnssors. columns of' Belgrade's offensive in the records. both Macedonia and dnspnrate people stream province. "This is a kind of Montenegro, where depart­out in all dirnctions," tlw 
Russia backed its disap­Orwellian scenario of ing Kosovo Albanians said govnrnnrnnl said in a rnport proval or the NATO cam­attempting to deprive a another 5,000 people wnre in Tanjug. Tlw Suprnnw paign with a show ol' force people and a culture of the coming behind them. Alliod Commandnr t-:uropn, W1!dnnsday, saying it was sense of past and the sense The U.N. f'ood agency said U.S. GP11. Wesloy Clark, said dispatching a frigate to the of communitv on which it refugees were crossing his rnqunst to NATO mnrn­Mediterranean and putting depends," Shea said. some border points at a bers for more l'irnpownr other warships on standby. The Yugoslav war crimes rate of 4,000 an hour. Al would be insuf'ficicnt to stop NATO warships firing tribunal said Wednesday it least 118.000 ethnic the attacks against civil­cruise missiles at had indicted Serb paramili­Albanians havo fled to ians, which are reportedly Yugoslavia are deployed in tary leader Zeljko Albania. Macedonia and spnarhnaded by irregular tlrn Adriatic Sea, off the Haznatovic for Bosnian Montenegro, the U.N. lligh Serb militia units. 

¦ KOREA 
Missile talks with North Korea fail 
ASSUC!AfEO PRESS 
SEOUL 

Eleven hours of "intensive" talks have failed to convince North Korea to accept a U. s. demand to stop developing and expm·ting missiles, American negotiators said Wednesday. . 
"We had frank discussions ... but I can't say we have made any break­through," said Robert Einhorn. who headed a U.S. delegation in two days of missile talks with North Kore&n officials that ended Tuesday. 
Einhorn, u.s.•deputyassistantsee-­retary of state for political and mill• tary affairs..flew in lnte Tuesd,1y fo brier South KMefin officla.Is on the talks in the• North's .~a.p,ita.J, Pyongyang, lie wa,s scheduled to Dy Thursday to JokyOtobrie.fJapa'lltlse 
officials;,,. 
In PyoJ1gyang, E.inb.orn said he held "intensive, serious talks" with North Korean officials. 
While mai~1taining their position, 
· North Korean officials agreed in principle to hold a.nother round or talks, hosaid. The venue and date of the next -talks, the l'ifth sint,e 1996. will be decided thro'\lgh consultations between U.S. and North Korean diplomats assigned fo the United NationsinNew York, Einhorn r,aid. . He ide1ttified North Korea as the world's No. l ilxportnr of missile equiprneni and.technology. North Kor.ea, he said, provided Pakistan ahd Iran with missile e,qtiipment ol' technology that . eilA,bl,qd tbose qountries to test-fire m(ldiµm~range 1i1issHesJast year. EluhQrn sald l).e warned North 
•:,;,~~tf.. !~t~Jt.lJ~r~."er.-J)ll~Ue. 
tests and exports would hu.mper !heir hope of' improving l:ies with tlw United StattlS, 
"Developing, producing. deploying and testing missiles that can threat­en U.S. allies and U.S. arnrnd forces and can evontually threaten th!l United States is inconsistent with improving ties with thn United States," ho said. 
North Korea said Wednesday it will never change its missile policy under pressun1 from the United States. 
It is North Korea's ''legitimate right of s,~lf-d()fimse to d!lvolop, tt}st and produce missiles by its own efforts to defend the sPcurity of the country because the U.S. is posing constant throats to it with enormous nuclear missiles and weapons of mass destruction," n. North Korean 
Foreign Ministry spokesman said.
_....,.....,..;.c.~--~----------------......1
"----------'-~--""'-""'-..:.:...-;._.;.:.........,......,;.;..:_:_......;=:'~"::;,.4':''"""--""'""'---;;..;.·:;i....
.../''• 

page 6 The Observer• NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, April I, 1999 
¦ ELECTION 2000 

Bush, Gore lead race in search of presidential campaign funds 
Associated Press diet Bush will have to raise $50 million or more, 
substantially more than the $30 million President 
WASHINGTON Clinton raised as a popular incumbent in his pri­
Texas governor George Bush and vice presi­mary re-election in 1996. dent Al Gore have jumped out to big fund-raising "This is a great start, but I recognize that we leads in their respective party's presidential bat­have a lot of work ahead." Bush said. tles, both hauling in dollars far faster than Bush's Other potential GOP presidential candidates father did in l 987 in the last open race for thP such as Sen. John McCain of Arizona, former White House. Vice President Dan Quayle, conservative activist 
Gore has raisod at least $7 million so far this Gary Bauer and former· Red Cross chairwoman year for his bid for the Democratic nomination, Elizabeth Dole are all expected to finish the first aides close to his campaign told The Associated three months of 1999 with $:~ million or less irr · Press. Gore tapped more than 40,000 donors, 77 fund raising. percent of whom gave less than $200 each, said Both the Texas governor and Gore have raised the aides, who expect money far faster than the final figure to be former President Bush slightly higher because did in the first quarter
'IT'S BECAUSE THE BIG STATF.S INVOLVED,
money was still rolling of 1987 when, as the in Wednesday. CALIFORNIA AND NEW YORK, HAVE vice president vying to The vice p·resideBL's replace Honald Reagan
PUSHED UP THEIR PRIMARIE.S SO MUCH AND 
total is doublr the ,.,. in an open race, he 
expected $3 million-THEY ARE VERY EXPENSIVE STATF.S.' ·-·rais~d $2.4' 'million and plus that his lone was the top fund-raiser Democratic challenger, in either party.
HERB ALEXANDER

former senator and The record for the professional basketball PROFE'iSOR, UNIVEHSITY OF SOUTIIE/lN CALIFORNIA first three months of a star Bill Bradley, two-year presidential expects to report the election cycle still same period, according to Bradley aides. belongs to Texas Sen. Phil Gramm, who raised In Austin, Texas, Bush announced he has been more than $8 million in the first quarter of 1995 raising money at a $2 million-a-week clip since for a GOP presidential bid that eventually stalled he formed his presidential exploratory cornmittfle and died. · March 4 and will finish the month with more The Gore and Bush efforts continue a trend 
th;in $6 million. over the last decade in which candidates raise The total is eye-catching because the Texas money faster and earlier as states ·have com­governor. unlike Gore, has not hosted a single · pressed their primary election schedules to the 
Ii.ind-raiser yet or even formally announced his early part of 2000. 
candidacy. "It's because the big states involved, California All of the GOP hopeful's money was raised and New York, have pushed up their primaries through telephone and mail appeals, his aides so much and they are very expensive states," said 
said. Gore has had four fund-raising events so Herb Alexander, a professor emeritus at the l"ar. University of Southern California who has studied The total is also important because Bush, if he political fund-raising for four decades. runs, is considering forgoing federal financing "And that is the biggest problem for candidates provided to presidential candidates in the pri­coming out of relatively inexpensive states like maries so he can free himself from spending lim­Iowa and New Hampshire -there's not enough its and better compete with millionaire publisher time to raise money after then." 
Steve Forbes for the GOP nomination. "ln 1976, Jimmy Carter had something like five Forbes is spending much of his own money and weeks after New Hampshire and the next prima­has not provided his fund-raising totals. ry and that was the time he could raise monev, 
To forgo federal matching funds, experts pre-but that doesn't exist anymore," he said. · 
Stocks demonstrate strengths of market 
· Associa ced Press be closed that day in obser­
vance of Good Friday. 

NEW YORK There is widespread fear that 
Prices retreated on Wall a drop in the unemployment 
Street Wednesday, dousing an rate will cause interest rates to 
early rally in technology rise, as they did Wednesday 
stocks, as interest rates rose in following some strong econom­
response to several reports of ic reports. The yield on the 30­
the economy's continuing year Treasury rose to 5.62 per­
strength. cent from 5.58 late Tuesday. 
The Dow Jones industrial Bond prices fell after a 
average fell 127.10, or by 1.3 report from the Purchasing 
percent, to 9,786.16. The Dow Management Association of' 
opened higher, climbing 88.80 Chicago showing manufactur­
to 10,002.06 in the first hour of ing strengthened in the 
trading, but quickly fell back. Midwest during March. The 
Despite the decline regional report is often consid­
Wednesday, the average of 30 ered a precursor of the nation­
blue-chip stocks ended the first al purchasing managers' 
quarter of 1999 with a gain of report due out Thursday. 
604.73 points, or 6.6 pcm:ent. "You had a bit of a reaction 
Broader stock indicators in the bond market to the 
faded in the final hour as tech­Chicago report," said Alan 
nology shares trimmed early Skrainka, chief market strate­
gains. gist at Edward .Jones of St. 
The Standard & Poor's 500 Louis, "although I think the sil­
index lost 14.38 points to dose ver lining is that the economy 
at 1,286.37, and the technolu­is. still strong. What the stock 
gy-h eavy Nasdaq compositP marbit should recognize is 
index fell 18.89 to 2,461.40 that ultimately, the slrnngth of 
after flirting with a new high tho economy will lead to 
early in the day. stronger corporate profits." 
Dow component IBM, at one But stocks were still follow­
point up 2 15/16, closed clown ing the lead of bonds in react­
1 5/16· at 177 1/4. In Nasdaq ing lo the Commerce 
trading, Dell ended up 1 al 40 lkpartnwnt's report that the 
7/8, after trading as high as 42 nation"s gross domestic prod­
1/4. But Internet stocks held up uct surged at a 6 perr.ent 
well, with Amazon.com adding annual rate during Urn fourth 
7 1/2 to 172 3/16. quarter, close to the depart­
Investors were adjusting mr.nt's earlier estimate of up 
their holdings ahead of the fi.1 pnrcent. GDP incroased by 
long weekend. Bryan a robust :t9 percent in 1998. 
Piskorowski, a market analyst A price index tied to the GDP 
at Prudential Securities. said rose just 1 percent. in 1998. 
they were "just tired, tired, The government's corporate 
tired," after pushing the Dow profit report, which is the bot­
industrials to their first closll tom line for stock investors, 
above 10,000 on Monday. was less upbeat. Its firs·t esti­
Piskorowski said investors mate of after-tax corporate) were also ,r,oncerned ahout profits showed a rlrop at an Friday's release of ·March annual rate of 1 percent in tlw unemployment data, especially fourth quarter, the third quar­because the stock markN will terly decline last year. 
Tiwe is Runnlng out to rent one of our spacfous two-bedroow Townhowes for the 99-00 School fiear! Apply Today. get assigned toworrow' 

Turtle Creek Apartments
212-8124 
Your source for the best in theological and philosophical books-we can special order any book you need! 
Spring Reading Sale! 
20% OFF EVERY TITLE* APRIL5-9. , 
THE LASALLE BOOKSTORE • 234-0003 237 N. Michigan St. (at LaSalle), downtown South Bend. Open 10-5, Monday -Friday. 
* Except already discounted titles. 
Fresh from the Rotterdam,_ Locarno, Oberhausen, Edinburg, Toronto, Hong Kong, Palermo, Philadelphia and Chicago Film Festivals ... 
"a ferocious, committed, important, historicaYpolitical tract for the amnesiac 90's"Boston Ptm1ir 
SOUTH BEND PREMIERE SCREENING 
THURSDAY APRIL 8, 1999 7:30 PM SNITE MUSEUM OF ART ADMISSION $2 
Tickets on sale at the Lafortune Student Center, also at the Film, Television,. and Theatre offices (320 O'Shaughnessy Hall) 
Sponsored by The Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts and the Department of Film, Television, and Theatre 
Thursday, April I, I 999 The Observer• NATIONAL NEWS 11agrc 7
-----~ -----.-------:--:;-:-~~===::;:====================================::::=::::­
Clinton plans airlift 
for ethnic refugees 
A.\~tH.:iat(.'d Pn.·s~ 
W!\SIIINGJ'ON 

Tlw Cli11Lon administration plans t.o airlift supplins in a $50 million aid Pfforl lo b1•nnlil lhP 
IIHJl"I' than I 00,000 l'Lhnic 
1\lha11ia11 rl'i't1gc~PS who find Koso vu lwl' a use, ol' a SP r b ot'f'P11sivn and l:iroadenillg NAT( l airstrikE•s 011 Yugoslavia. 
Tl11• 1'1•11tagrn1 will lranspnrt tl1n supplil's to Liu-1wighbori11g rn1111lrins of' Ma1·ndo11ia and 
/\lhania, b11L acknowlt\dgcrl lhl'n' is lit.lie U.S. oflkials can do t.o lwlp 1110rP than I million 1'1lrnic Albanians still i11 tho Yugoslav provi11n• or Kosovo, 1111d1•r llin·al. l'rom Sl'rb !'on'.!JS. 
"Thi• only way lo do it would IH• through airdrops and I think il is not a. vPry hospilabi1• arna thro11gh whil'h lo lly airdrops at this ti1111•," 1'1•ntago11 spokl'SIJIHII K1•1111Plll Han111 said. Ill' said Yugoslav forrns "largPly rnntrnl l11t' ground" sn lhPl'I' could IH· 1111 nssurallt'.(• 11ml airdroppPd l'ood, nwdit'al and otlwr st1ppli1·s would rcudi J,..osovars. 
il:11·1111 IJlamPd Yugoslav l'rPsidP11t Slolwdan !\lilospvic l'or IIll' 1·1111ti1111 i11g WIIV(' or Lirnd and hungry rf'i'ugPl'S, many 1'11·1'i11g \'ill.ig1•s IH1rrwcl to tlw ground liy SPrh army and polil't• and facing llw lhrPat or !wing sl.1ughlPrc•d ii' tlwy slay in Kosovo. 
"llll'y'rc l1•a\·i11g-llf'nius1• llll' ;\l\1•r11.1liv<' is lo lw murd,•rPd 11r st an·Pd !Jy \ 1ilos1•vi1·," l{,won said. "Tiu•~-·an· lkPing 11 11Hir­d1•r 111,wlii111·" 
\ \l() illlli1·ip1tll'd 1IH•J'I' -wo11ld IH· r1·f'ugPPS and lwf'ort' 
airstrikns lwga.11 Mardi 24 the alliancn storocl enough food in lhn region to 1'1ind 100.000 pno­pl1) for spvr.ral wr.eks, Bacon said. 
U.S. and NATO of'licials also anticipatr.d the potential for "ethnic rlnansing•· by the Serbs. 
"I think overybocly is appallnd by what's going on. and cv(111 k11owi11g ratiunally thal a man has 11 rncord of oth­ni !: clnansing, of' supporting concontration camps. of' sup· porting massacres, of support­ing killing, you'rn shocked !Wl'ry ti111n you s,w it again," 
Barnn said. 

"But you can't leach an uld dog nnw tricks, and Milosevic: is an old dog up to his old tricks, whil'h is plain old ethnic clr•ansing." 
I !all' Llw $50 million in n\licf 11101iny will pay to airlift food and otlwr nnndcd supplies to the Balkans and Lhe otlrnr half will Im sent. t.o tho U.N. lligh Commission on RPfugrws and other international assistance groups. Whil.P llnus,i sµokPsman Jo<' Lockhart said. 
,\dditionally, the U.S. Agency for International DcvdopmPnl sPnt a disaslPr rnlid toam to Albania to ass,~ss tlw growing humanitarian crisis. Lo1;kharl 
said. , 
As NATO airstrikcs contimwcl for a11 Pightli l'.Ons!'n1tivn night. Bacon said it ,tp1wars alli!!d l'orcPs struck sPVPral SPrb tanks and ollwr lwavilv armml vPhidPs l'or tlw l'irst ·tinw as 1·11111111,11HIPrs lwgan 1:11111•.p11­1rati11g mor(• on stopping tlw S,·rh assaull 011 l\.osovars. 
Campus View Apartments 
1801 Irish Way (219)272-1441 
Saturday. April 10 at the College Football Hall of Fame 
Tix $8 per couple On Sale next week Must be 21 


Feds to recognize genocide 
-WASHINGTON 
The Clinton administration is cornfng as close as ·it can to l:abcling Serb atrocit!es 111 Yugoslavia genocide without crossing a line that could raise· tho log al sta.lqis. under. n 50-yoar-old international tl'eaty. . . 
The Genocide Convention, signed after World War II by most countries, including the United States and Yugoslavia, nei• ther requires nor dr1~n out of the group. 

Suggestions of genocide in connection with Yugoslavia fir$t surfaced Monday, when · S\ii.Je Department sp9kesman James Hubin · declared there were "indica• ttj't'$, gepocide is unfolding in 
Kosovo." 
A day later, Hubin said, "W~'re talking about forced expulsions, we're talking about Tl\pe., we're talking abo.ut mass murder, we're talking about hundreds of' 
prohibits military 
we will wait till all
'WEMUST NOT ALLOW, IF
intorvorttion in a the facts aro in.·• country where it WE HAVE THE ABILITY If it is genocide. Is occurring. Abrams sald, th'1n .TO STOP IT, ETJ-INIC CLEANSING
But the pact governments are that arose out of OR GENOCIDE ANYWHERE WE morally obligated 
the Holocaust CAN STOP IT -PARTICUI.ARL\' to "do tWerything does Hstablish in their power Lo genocide as an ·11• -r.......:: AT THE EDGE OF EUROPE.' stop it." 
international crime, opens the way for criminal .and civil charges against Individu­
als and could bolster 11.rg1.1­ments for foreign interven­tion in another country's ·. 
ttffoirs, lnclu.ding the use ot' ground troops. 
Tlui Genocide Convention defines genodde as acts "committed with intent to destroy, in whole or in part. a national. ethnic. racial or religious group." 
It lists such acts as killing members ol' the group, caus­ing serious bodily or mental harm to its members. delib­erately inllicting conditions aimed at destroying the group and imposing mea­sures aimed at preventing births within Urn group or forcing the transfer of chi!­

th.ousands of peophi being moved out of their homes." 
Calling it genocide, he said, would not change the response. 
Tue.sday night, President Clint.on used the word with­out drawing any clear dis­tinction between genocide and other charactorizations used in describing Serb actions in Kosovo. 
"We must not allow, ii' we have the ability to stop it, ethnic cl~ansing or genocide anywhere we can stop it ­particularly at the edge of' Europe," Clinton ·said in a speech to an electronics organization. 
While the administration is 
Answer the call of duty. Write for the Observer News department. 
GET IN THE 






THICK 
OF IT. 

Comenienrly located in the heart of 
downtown South Bend, Old Chicago 
Sceakhuuse has the hottest grill in town. 
We1n~~~~Ys 
. 
.> All~Y<rn..Gan"E~r.G;ral:> k¢igij < 

. $15i9.$.'. ... •··•. . ·.. 
222 S MICIIIGAN•SOlJT[I IIFND•(219) 2.14-5200 
now using the word, a load­ing human rights group working on the Kosovo crisis has not gone that l'nr. 
"For a long time, we have been shouting about human rights violations in Kosovo and felt the administration was behind the curve," said Fred Abrams of Human Rights Watch. 
"Now, the administration is out there ahead of' us. We don't want Lo say g,mocide is not taking place, bccauso tho 
evidenco suggests 
it. may be..'.. But 
G e o r g c PRESIDENT CLINTON W a s h i n g t o n
Univnrsity law professor llalph Stoinhardt said 
that although the Genocide Convention does not man­date enforcement or military intervention. allogations of genocide were used as par­tial basis l'or interv,mtion in Bosnia. 
The allegations could be used, Steinhardt said, if Yugoslav Presid11nt Slobodan Milosevic is taken before the 
new  international  war  
crimes tribunal.  
"The  law  answors  thr  

question of individual liabili­ty," he said. 
"Coll11ctivo humanitarian intervention is a little closN to the li1w," with wid,• dis­agr1•unwnt ovor wlwtlwr it can be justil1Pd. 
Class of 1999 

Left to Add to a 
Lifetime of 
Memories. 
99¢ Cover 
....
-
with college I.D. must be 21 
2 2 2 S. Michigan 
South Bend • (219) 234-5200 
Call the Heartland Concert & Event Line (219) 251-2568 www.ACEplaces.com/heartland 

page 8 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Thursday, April 1, 1999 

Advertisement paid for by the Christian Democratic Socialist Party, P.O. Box 898, South Bend, lndiana 46624 
Thtmday, April I, 1999 The Observer• INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
¦ MOROCCO 

First Lady hopes tour erases negative stereotypes 
Mi\HH/\KECII 
Cni,~tl'd with rnvnrorH'.I) and adlllalion. llillary Bodharn Clinton prodaimcd her tour or Norlh !\f'rica a wnlconw 1iscapc 1111cl a succnss !'or U.S.-Arab n•laliuns. 
"I always lik11 g11tti11g uway from Washington," tlrn f'irst lady said Wodnesday as sho and lwr daughtnr Ch1dsna wrnppNI up Llwir l 2-day tour-
part sightsoeing. part U.S. diplomacy-through Egypt. Tunisia and Morocco. 
"I hop!! for our country this has also been a trip that has helped to nwvc the agenda for­wurd as to how wn relatfl to prople in this region of the world," the lirst lady sa.h.l in a brilif n<'ws confercm;c_ 
Particularly, she said she hoped lrnr tours lrnlped to eras,~ tlw "stnreotypos and rrngaLivc i111agl's" that some 
Arabs and Americans harbor toward one another. 
Preparing to depart Thursday for Washington, Clinton sounded reluctant to face decisions about whether to sock the Democratic nomina­tion for Senato in New York in 2000. 
"I've rr.ally tried to put it out or my mind the last 10 days," she said. 
She focused instead on the headlines at hand, joining 
Western leaders in condemning Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic for the Serbs' treat­ment of nthnic Albanians in Kosovo. 
BuL her husband did not mind musing on what the responsibilities of a husband of a senator might be. 
"I don't know, but I am will­ing to fulfill them," President Clinton said with a laugh dur• ing an interview with CBS anchor Dan Ratlrnr that focusnd largr,ly on the crisis in Kosovo. "You know, l would Jill in at dinners, make spneclrns wlrnn shn had to votn. I'd he the main caseworker at tlrn New York state nffic,L I'd do whatnver I was asked to." 
The first lady said slrn's been "horrified" by tlw news shn has seen on TV from Kosovo and the "propaganda" from the Serbs. She accused Milosevic of' "a kind of perverti~d political decision-making." 

o! 
s. 




As low as 
21< per minute. 
Now you can get lower prepay rates than ever before. 
Because with Omnipoint's Prepay, the larger the coupon amount, the more you save: $25=85 minutes, $50 = 175 minutes. $100 =400 minutes and $200 =950 minutes. With the $200 coupon, you'll pay only 21 q: a minute. 
You can use your minutes to call anywhere in the U.S., Canada, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. 
You'll get a brand new Ericsson 638 digital phone for just $49. Plus free features like voice mail, caller ID and call waiting. 
All you need is a $50 coupon to start. Activate by May Ist to get these rates, which are good through December 31 st. 
As always, there are no monthly fees, no credit checks, no long distance charges and no contracts to sign. Nothing at all to come between you and your Omnipoint digital phone. 
SOUTH BIND .AUTHORIZID alTAILIRS, 
Actfv. Car St.nt0 Glau Mo1Nr 
l'.119) 272-1432 12191271-1,12 
Auta On• ctf Sherman'• Beauty Ml•hawaka Suppty 
1?19! 256-2451 (219) 231-MJJ 
DI"' Go Ro,,nd 
12 I9) 277-9222 
1 800 BUY-OMNI FOR FREE DELIVERY 
AUTMa•u:11:1 
.,,au•••• 

~"OMNIPOINT 
®
··-· 
100% Digital. 0°/o Hassle: 
www.omnipoint.com 
Cl lW9 OMNll'O!NI COMMI.JNICAhONi, SER',IICU, Ile AIL ilGl-lltl mavm OMNi,OINl AN£i lOO'l D~ITAI. 0% HA$5U: ARf RfG!St!REO TRADEMAUS Of QMNjPQINT COlPOIATION 







VIEWPOINT 
page 10 
-----------------Thursday, April 1, l 999 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME Ornn: P.O. Box Q, Nocre Dame, IN 46556 (119) 631-7471 
1999-2000 GENERAL BOARD 
ForTOR-tN-CmEr 
Michelle Krupa MANAGING EDITOR llUSINfSS MANACER 
M. Sh:mnon Ryan Dave Rogero 
AsSISH1''T MANAGING ElllTOR Laun l'etdle 

Nt.·ws EDITOR .. .., .....Tim Log~n AnVF..RTISlr,.:G MA.NAGER., ................ Bryan Lurz V1t=:wro1NT Eurrolt ............. Collr.:i:t1 Gaughcn Ao Di:stGN ~IA!\AGER ..............J(c11ncth Kcarnc:1 SroRTS EDITllR.. ......................Brian Kc"lcr SY~l'E.M~ MAM<;fR.......................MiJ1ad Rem, SCE.Nl:. Enrrou.... -•·--••··•·•·•••·Micll:.1.cl V.mega.~ CONl'ROl.l.LR ...................................-nmo,hy l...sn.c SAINT M.<Rv's El>ITOR ....... Colleell McCarrhv GRAPHTC.~ r.I>ffOR.............................. Jve Mudie, P11uro t.DllOR .,...,,,.,,. ... , ........ Kc:vin Dalu,;1 WEil Al>MINIS1'11ATOR........... ...........Erik Ku,hco 
i'hc l)bsm·<r ii; the imlt::p.-:nJ<:ot 1tt.-wsp.1per pL1h!ish1..xi hy 1iw studc1us of lhc U11ivc.:rsityofN01rc l),uilc du l..te ;inti !'\.1im M.1n··-. (:ollegc..•. Ir Jt1~~ 11ut 11cc~,:1rily rdicct ,he policte'> nf1h.: ,1Jmim~tr.it1Un ofeither m~mtmon. ·1·ht.· 111..-ws 1.-. rcpo.t'!t."l{ ~ :,,cur,1tdy and nb/t'~1ivdy ib fl(.h,:.ihlc. lin~•~ned cdiwri.tl:. rcprl'.'iellt thi.: opinion ofd1t.! m.tJiinty of tilt: l•,diwr-11\•\ '.hid.-, M,1n;1gi1tj!: l-A.!icor, ASlii~tu111 Managing l·.diwr and di."pu-rn1c111 '-'dmm•. Ct.1mrucnrnrk~. kncr\ ,rn~I 1.olumo~ l)~i,cn1. rhi: v1('w1o ol 1hi: Ju(hor)o ,m1.l no1 nci:c!>..~.t.rily rh"st: d' Ilic.· 01,~rwr. Vit,wpuim spare: is .r.v:.ubhlc w .i.JI membc:r, uf d1t• Notre l1,1mc/S.1im mJI')',~ c.:ommuni{}' ~111d lO .1J! reaJcn,. ·1 hc fo:i,; rxprt;!t,..~ion ofv.uy,ngopmium, ~hrough l"m.:L~ b t'iKnural:'t~d. 
Contacting The Observer 
Ednor-in-Ch1<t C,3l-/i5'1l Otti1..·c M;i.n~_ger/Ccncral Jr1fi)rmation (dl-7471 Mai1aging Fd1tor/A$su;ca11t ME 631-4:,41 ilusinmOtlice G.ll-531.l News 631-532.l Advmi,mg 631-6900/8340 Vic,vptlll1t 6;11-5303 Sy.<tem,/Wcb Admmisrrarm 6.ll-8839 Sports (dl-4543 rax 631-6927 Scene 6;, 1-4540 Ad E-M,il observcr@darwin.cc.nd.edu S:unt Mary·!> 6Jl-4324 Ncwi,, E-Mail ob!<iaver.ob~news.l@nd.c:<lu Photo 651-8767 Vicwpoim E-M;til obscrvc,-,v1cwpoiJJr. l@nJ.c:Ju 

¦ LIFE AT ND 

Dreaming in Black and White 
Maybe it was an unfair question, but it was asked of me nevertheless. 
One day during a visit with a relative, a discussion arose about the tendency of some African-American men to date Caucasian women. One of the women in the room eventually came up to me, looked me straight in the eye and asked 
Mel Tardy 

me, "Be honest. If you had a choice between a black woman and a white woman, and everything else about them was totally equal, which one would you choose?" 
My eyes met hers for a four-second pause and then shot up to tho left as I prepared my answer: "I just don't know, I don't have a preference. I'd have to get to know them both as individuals first." 
From that moment on, I've alwavs known which way eyes go when people lie -up and to the left. Quite frankly, the question caught me off guard. I truly wanted to say what she wanted to hear: "Why of course, I'd choose the beautiful. black woman!" 
In my heart, though, I knew it wasn't the truth. In fact, even what I said to her -which sounded nice and probably was politically correct -wasn't the truth. ! knew in my heart that, if such a choice existed, I would've most definite­ly chosen tlw Caucasian woman. 
You might ask what's vvrong ,vith an i\frican-American man being fond or Caucasian women. On the surface and ignoring tlw sociBtaf taboos placed on such a thing, absolulely nothing. Nevertheless, if vou are an African­i\merican wom,{n and you do some slm­pie math on African-American male availability in your head, you might begin to get a bit nervous. 
In fact, my teenage daughter and one of her African-American friends recent­ly said that when they get older they're going to have to become white or Hispanic if they ever want to get mar­ried. I'm not certain where that notion arose (and I quickly assured them that this would not be the case), but al a young age they are already sensing society's place for African-American women. 
As an African American, however, the question that I now must ponder is not "what" but "how." How did I develop this preference? How did it enter my psyche? 
Other African Americans may have difforent reasons, but interestingly enough, I believe the answers may lie in my dreams. My dreams are deeply root­ed in the American dream -but not in the way you might suspect. You see, I dream of Jeanie with the light brown 
(i.e. blonde) hair. I dream of bright angels with golden wings. I dream of kids playing in green parks. In my dreams, I fly in blue skies to the envy of all {and sometimes experience that never-ending fall). People chase me. We might light. I dream in colors so very bright ... except, of course, EXCEPT for b-1-a-c-k. 
I'm not quite certain when I noticed, but several years ago it dawned on me that, relatives notwithstanding, almost all of the people in my dreams were white! As an African American, that was quite a shocking revelation. Looking back now, however, I can see how it might have developed. 

From childhood to early adult years, I was usually in educational settings with Caucasians. I primarily studied the his­tory and culture of Caucasians. I watched TV shows featuring Caucasians ("I Dream of Jeanie," "Charlie's Angels," etc.I, with commercials !'or products that primarily targeted Caucasians. I then spent evenings hang­ing out with Caucasian friends, listening to Caucasian rock or popular music (that's all the radio allowed anyway) and arguing about which Caucasian classmates or Caucasian actresses we preferred. I then went to church and prayed with Caucasian images of God and Biblical persons in my head. 
Dreams don't lie. Those of Afric,UJ descent simply never made it to the casting calls for my dreams. I believe that this, coupled with the "-isms" towards my people that I (like all Americans) learned from society, l('d me to develop a preference for those out­side my own race. 
In actuality, it is a symptom of the self-hate that many of African descent develop in America when we lack knowledge of ourselves. "Let me clarffy: It wasn't the fact that I considered dat­ing Caucasian women that I lament-it is that I got to a point where I rarely considered women of African descent, that is, women who looked like my mother. I turned my eyes and lied to my relative's friend that day, because I could not bring myself to say what was in my heart -that, at that time, I found our people less attractive. 
When the media portrays an interra­cial relationship, they always seem to portray it as an "individual" developing an attraction for another individual (who "happens" to be of another race) because of who that individual is. I guess it's inconceivable (shall we say ­taboo?) for an individual to have a pref­erence for a whole other race or ethnic­ity. In our society, however, it docs hap­pen. Unfortunately for my race, African­American women arc usually placed at the very bottom of' the list of prel"cr­ences. 
Other people -and maybe some of' African descent -often wonder why we havo events like Black History Month, NAACP Image Awards, BCAF Fashion Show, Essence and Ebony magazines, etc. Odd as it seems, we've been called ugly so loudly and for so long that we need to constantly remind ourselves of' our beauty, so that we free ourselves from, rather than perpetuate, the hatred -and self-hatred -of our peo­ple. which has been instittitiona!ized as a result of America's unique racial his­tory. 
Although we hav1\ very l"ew standards of beauty in our society !'or women of African descent, let us not forget that the Virgin Mary (dark-skinned and of African descent, despite the more recent and prevalent Euroccmtric, artis­tic portrayals) is one of those standards. 
African peoples ARE beautiful! Our beauty -like that of ALL God's people -has depth and character. No. it isn't skin d1iep. Neit!rnr, however, does it only exist below tlrn surface. 
In the end, I did not dev1dop (nor seek) a sole prnl'erenc1• for tlw womnn of my race, but an understanding that, given the subconscious Eurocentric standards of lrnauty and the prnvalent racism and sternotypical views that I (even as an African-American main) may have inherited from this society, I needed to make a conscious decision to CONSIDER the women of mv race. After that, I would get to know th~rn1 individu­ally and go from there. ­
Can you believe it'? Onc11 I start11d doing that, my techno-colorPd dreams actually began to be cast in black and white. 
Maybe you 're thinking that life shouldn't be so cornplicatl!d. You'n! right. Then again, lifn shouldn't havn racism. 
So ... what color are YOUH dreams? 
Mel Tardy, ND '86, '90 is the !\ssistanl Professional Spr>cialist al the First Year of Studies. Ilis column appears every other Wednesday. 
'f'lw views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not rieces­sarily lhos,_, of The Of1server. 
¦ Door.JESBIJRY 

Hl,MRS. 
HliY.91..16 

lll/11<& NO, OFF. 70Rl­7Hfj£3 7Her7?£ ch.1.-1 1 ,H~ Bell'IG \ 
BCl!lER· ~.. ,;,;--­/NGID()?
I 
GARRY TRUDEAU 

HOW .JU5T
MR'i pr n;84/<'F­'1tJI.I? 
THRavA
CA~ m 
7J181Ea-OT/-I

PANOP ":~ 
I ARa!NP 
f/,;iR,

... TAl,/(JN6
I , !_..__.,, 
¦ UUOTE OF TH£ 0AY 
, If we insist _upon b~ing 

as sure as 1s conce1v­
able, in every step of our 
course, we must be content 
to creep along the ground 
and can never soar.' 
-John Henry Newman 






VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, April 1, 1999 
----------------------~---page 11 
;

¦ LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Architecture Students Support Professor Blanchard 
This past WC'~kend, the University of Notre Dame celebrated thn 100th anniversary of the architecture program. Over the yMrs. lhe Schnol of Architecture has had sfwernl different chairs thal each instituted different ideas beneficial to the cdu­calion of t.h11 students. Mr. Frunk Montana c1·eated the Home Studies program In 1969, ancl Mr. Thomas Gordon Smitlt became chair in 1989 and radically changed the school's cur­riculum to that of classical and traditional architecture. Most rN·1mUy. Mr. C:u·roll William Westfoll was named chair orthe Sdwol of Archltncturn. He bngan his job this past summer and upon revimving tho structurn of the program, he proposed a scrie:, of changes tlmt he felt would benefit the school. most · sp11c·ilkally changes in the Romo Studies Pf()gram curriculum. 
Thn intent of this lfltter is to express our opinions regarding the ramifications of the decision not to renew the contract of l'rofossor J1•1Tr1iy Blandrn.rd, a professor in the Rome Studies l'roi,trarn. Upon hearing this news, our reaction was utter disbc­lit'l'. We asked ourselves whaL would be reason enough to com-· plelt>ly rPmove what we consider lo be the heart of the Home P1·oi1'am. I lis knowlodgn of' Hcnaissa.nc11 and Baroque urban­ism. architecture and art, as well as his wisdom regarding Italian rnllure, are wlmt distinguish our program l'rom others of a similar nature. AC'cording t.o the information we received, tlw reasons leading to the release of our esteemed professor an• as follows: Due to his involvement with the Cornell Univ,irsity Program, he has b,wn dnrelicl in his rtisponsibilities to Notrn Dame; Thero is an excessive teacher to student ratio in the Home Program: The University can no longer afford to keep him .and:•his teaching-methods are not consistent ""ilh the new acadmni1: and curricular goals oftlrn program. 
Wn propose that this is not the case. Instead, Professor Blanchard has surpassed our expectations. providing us with i111:r!•dibl1! acad«!mic and c11llurnl oxptiricnc«is throughout the VNtr. His devotion to the students is further manifested in the ~ontimwd rnlinemcnt of our field trips which expand our knowludgn ol'tniditional and classical architActure beyond Homo's ancient walls. Thcrnforn, we believe that the accusation that Professor Blanchard is dernlict in his responsibilities to the Univnrsity is unfounded. 
Secondly, the University strives for a high teacher/student ratio to sustain its excellent quality of education. As the situa­tion now exists. one of the three visiting professors divides his timl' hotwenn undergraduatfl and graduate design studio, another teaches architectural theory and design studio, while the lhirtl teaches sketching and watercolor and design studio. This nwans that two-thirds of us study nine of our 15 credit hours under n single profossor. The lllimination of another posi• lion as an attempt to satisfy the financial situation of the Rome Program is dntrinwntal to the ratio and inhibits thti mainte­nanen of the high quality ol' education vital to Notre Dame. We believe that the use of financial limitations as an excuse not to rt>new Professor Blanchard's contract is hypocritical because of th(l curront intm1tion to o:xpand the faculty on the home cam~ pus. 
The School recently released documents concerning the Gmrnrations campaign that stale the desire to "animatH teach· ing, stimulato learning and encourage scholarship." Professor Blanchard's methods of' teaching epitomize these goals, His comprelumsiv(l understanding of Rome and its environs has allowed him to acclimate us to tho spirit of tho architecture, art and rnlturn of Italy. llis tireless attitude and unparalleled rap­port with students muke Professor Blanchard an irreplaceable profnssor. Tho intense relationship with the architecture and art of thll city of Home that we and those before us have devela oped will be missing from the curriculum. The current struc­lurn of Professor Blanchard's course has pot{lntinl benefit in any program studying architectum and art 
We am aware that this decision was based on a great deal of r11scarch analyzing all of the potential results of this action. llownvor, wo find il curious that stud<mt and faculty input was not takrn into account during this process. Had lhat been the case. lhose who have studied under him and those who have tuug-ht with him would not hnvo supported the dimination of profnssor Blanchard's position in the Rome Program. This dra* rnatic change to tlrn Home Program will not directly affect our class as Wt! havt1 ,drotu.ly complelfid a majority of this yoa.r in Rome its students of Notre Dame's School of Architecture doservo to spend it. The absence of professor Blanchard's insightful course on Henttissance and Baroque Italy is indeed unfortunatn for future classes. With the arrival of a now Rome Studies director and new visiting studio professors, Professor Hlancharcl would have represented the single remaining consis­tcnr.y in the program, . 
As this extraordinary year comes to an end for us, we feel increasingly lucky to have had the opportunity to learn from Profossor Blanch,u·d. a man who is Integral to tho Roman edu­cational experi1mce. 
Class of2001 Univcrsiry of Notre Dame School ofArchitecturt March 2.8: 199Q. 
¦ So, WHAT'S MY POINT? 


A Loss of Innocence ... ... and Shakespeare 
The "Hiverside Shakespeare" is an impressive than a fow choice words to say about llw pnri)('· book. It contains all of the authoritative works ol' trator of this crimn. And whiln Thn Obs1irwr isn't the Bard -comedies, tragedies and histories -a "l'amily newspapnr," I doubt that tlw mlitorial and puts them in easy reach. The Riverside con-staff would deem it appropriatn f'or nm to nlabo­tains notes on the text, little introductory arti-rate on thn naturn or those choic11 words. (llint: des. and descriptions on thn back of many of the Think four lntters.) 20th-century productions of Shakespeare, both I mean, I knew people stolr books, but l hadn't in film and on the stage. expcctml it to happen lo me until I Pntnrnd law 
The Riverside is a veritable Shakespeare ency-school with 500 other competitive sharks. I WPnt clopedia. Suffice it to say, Shakespeare encyclo-lo the bookstore and told them about it at IPngth, pedias do not come cheaply. Also suffice it to say where those wonderful people promised to watd1 that to tit all that information into one tome, it is out for it at buy-back time. necessary to produce a 300-~==============~ Evnry acquaintance I pound book that will break bumpnd into lrnard aboul tlw 
the back of even the most tale that evolved into thn "The 
Nakasha 
experienced of backpack-Mysterious Hobbery of carrying students. So when Nakasha's Very ExpPnsive I thought someone had and Very Heavy Hiversidn."


Ah d 
stolen my precious ma My faith in human nature was Hiverside, I was distraught. gone. Nobody could he trust-I was furious. I was out-ed anymorn. I had lost my raged. ________________ innocnnce. Never again would 
On my way to my last I bn the sanrn trusting and class last Thursday. I was tired. Heally tired. And optimistic person. my backpack was already full to back-breaking, So I spent the next 24 hours brooding over my backpack-splitting limits. So I ligured I'd just lost Hiverside, which was now looming to leg­leave my big huge weapon of a Riverside in the endary proportions. I praynd the «mtirn day that off-campus lounge/game room in Haggar. After it would turn up by some miracln. And tlw rrnxl all, I've been here almost three years. and I've day, I walked through LnMans, saw my name on left stuff in there for weeks at a time. Nobody's tho message board and wm1t to the front desk to even touched it. let alone taken it. (Granted, my claim my message. And limn the dnsk clerk Hussian folder and my notebook can't be resold np,mcd up her drawer and took out ... my at book-buyback Lime like my Shakespeare, but it Hiverside! I was ecstatic. I was elatml. I was on was Thursday afternoon -my weekend brain Cloud Nine. (And I almost hugg(id llw lrnwildnrnd apparently kicked in a day too early). Besides, I desk clnrk.) I thanked God, and tlwn I again thought. who's going to walk in between 2 p.m. stopped every acquaintanco I had to let them and :M 5" Probably not many people. So I left my know that my book had bnen saved. "Riverside" on the shelf in Haggar and blithely But after the elation simmernd down into d«iep walkod out, secure in the inherent inuigrity of all contenLment, I bogan lo fnnl likn lfortili Wooster those who would venture into Haggar Game after he's mucked things up -I folt slwepish. !loom. Very sheepish. The poor anonymous p«)rson who 
Do I even have to finish this'! I came back to probably turned in my book for sa1'(1konping had Haggar an hour and a half later, again blithely, been unfairly maligned (to halt' the student body) and lo and behold, all blitheness stopped. Instead by me. So, I guess I owe her (or maybe him) a it was more like doom. despair and misery. My profuse apology for my sland1wous condur.t. And book was not there. I talked to the people who a heartfelt thank you for not choosing to make a were in there at the time -the Riverside hadn't profit off my Shakespeare. been there when they came in. I looked under Oh, and my innocence? It's back and better tabltis and chairs, behind shelves, desperately than ever. Well, at least until law school. (and rather stupidly) hoping it to have magically removed itself to another corner of the room in Nakasha Ahmad is a junior al Saint Mary's its effort to play a practical joke on me. I didn't College. I/er column appears every other search the room -I searched the entire build­Thursday. ing. The views expressed in this column are those 
Sn when I finally realized that it was irrevoca­of the author and not necessarily those ofTlw bly gone, I steamed. I fumed. I railed. I had more Observer. 


How aBOllt) 
a secular 
holiday? 

By ELLEN ANDERSON SceJie Wrirer 
"Come on, Mom. There's no such thitl.g as the Easter Bunny," a friend once said. "Thillkaboutit. A big, fat rabbit hopping all over the world? How is, he supposed to cross the. oceans? ltjust doesn't make sense." . · 
Although this precocious young lady had things all , figured out at the ripe agfl offollr, theide.a Q(an , Easter Bunny is a source of.anticipation a.nd excites ment for most children far into their elementary school days. The thought of thii:; magk~l qrna,ture scampering around, filling baskets with yo•y.s and Peeps represents only one of the many traditions associated with Easter. , 
While some customs stem from the religious aspect of the holiday, other decidedly secular tradi­tions are shared by thos1:1. offaith and non~bt3lievers alike in the celebration of Easter. Perhaps the most common Easter practice is that of egg-decoration. 
Every child should experience the messy process of dying and painting eggs in the days preceding the holiday. What better family bonding experiences than the intricate tasks of first decorating the 
¦ Frrn THAT NOT-SO*SECULAR EASTER 
shells, then consuming the week's worth 6f deviled, scrambled and poached eggsthat result from the activity? Egg hunts often accompany the festivities, 
although a careful tally of eggs shbuldbe taken to 
Easter Weekend Liturgy
insure thaL no carefully h,idden .and subsequently rotting eggs surface at an obsc~nely later date, Another tradition in the Easter spirit ofteri · includes the obligatory watching of televised 
Schedule: 
parades and ceJebrations.. •.•. . .. ...· · 
Although for older family members parade's may seem trite and boring, few. things.cancompareo.in a, child's oyes to the first fewy:a,rs otfloat~ and dancers seen parading around the. st.tee.ts ofNew 
York, The viewing of these gloriQl.JS·sp~.ct~clfl6.C~llii 
Thursday:
bring out the magic of the holidQ,y linq p~pvi(le ~et '···• 
another worthwhile family activityfor a good deal 
of the population. ..••···· ...·. . 
5 p.m. -Mass of the Lord's Supper 
Not only does E.aster mark the a.rriv.il 1Jf tlit)spring season, it serves as an opportunity for 
youngsters.to showcase their new holiday 6:30 p.m. -Adoration in the Lady Chapel wardrobes. Masses are packed with little girls in f1owery dresses and· patent leather shoes,while' boys deck-out in new tailored. suits and ties...Easter proves to be most parent's finest moment-their children can be required to look presentable for at 

Good Friday:
least a few hours in the pubHcview. (The in}p~.t1d· ing threat of an Easter candy-revocationis often a 
key motivator against n:frsbehavioi:'. inSituatfons 
3 p.m. -Celebration of the Lord's Passion such as this.) .. . . ... . . · 
7: 15 p.m. -Stations of the Cross 
A full-out meal marks the end of the Easter holi~ day in most families. A table billowing with.the tra.• ditional spread of ham, p.ea,8 and winf1along with other incidentals can often set the mood for a great 
night of' games and banter. Anamus.ing (and sorrily . seldom-practiced) cap-off t() the eveninK.iS we be<1,t· 
ing of the aforementioned ma:rslunallow Peeps in 

Saturday:
the microwave to the pointof explosion. What more satisfying activity is tJ)ere tllan watchi11g t~?~e litJ]ebunnies and chicks grow to impossible sizes before 
9 p.m. -Easter Vigil Mass 
they finally condense·hack down t.o their former 
shapes? . .· .. ·. . .•..·. ·. . . . . . :, .. , .•. . . . 
No matter what the practices, Eastt}r can and should be one of the most celebrated days ofthe year. Not only is it the end.of Lent, but Easter pro­

Easter Sunday:
vides one of the rare times in which family mem­
bers and friends can gather solely to enjoy each 
others' company. Easter is a time for laughter and 
8 a.m. -Easter Sunday Mass
relaxation, and it comes but once a year, Each 
Easter should be an event to remember, an event 
10 a.m. -Solemn Mass 
from which memories can be formed for years to 
come. 
Noon -Easter Sunday Mass 
7: 15 p.m. -Solemn Easter Vespers 
The views expressed in this holiday celebratory column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 



·----------------. 
I • 

O
THE

Thursday, April l, 1999 page 13
BSERVER 

Freshmen shine in the spodight 
Thum/Js-u11 ta Freshmen l'lavs: tllum/Js-down to 

unthBatricalVBRUB 
B> BRIAN SEAMAN \cent· Tl1e,un ( :ri1i,· 
In Llw opening monwnts of the I<)<)<J First Year Plays, llw lm11sn lights wnrn abruptly cut. leaving thP at11liP11t:1• in sudc!Pn darknnss, wondnring what exu!'Lly was hap1w11ing. Only lll0HHlllls l,lter, whP11 a spotlight picr('.ing Llw b~ackness was mis­plac1•d four or fivo font to tlrn right ol' the actress waiting 1'11r ii 011 stag1~. did llin auditrnce realize tllf' show was lwginning. 
With this 1•arly blundPr. the audi1111cn silently wi11n•d. woll(f1•ri11!-{ if this was to ho a IJllcl omen for tl11• rntirsP 111' !IH• nwning. Thankfully, tho tal­1•11t1~d l'rnsltman 1wrl'oruwrs involvnd in Sunday 11ight 's p1q•forma111·11 provc•d that tlw Pvening would nol 011ly lw markPdly br\tlt\r tlrnn those opPning 111011wnts. but also that their combined LalPnls would add up lo a v.-ry enjoyablP-and willy 1•v1•ni11g of' thPat1\r. 
Th11 1w1•11i11g op111wd with thn wondcirf'ully sar­1·astit' "Mrs. Sork1111," by Christopher Durang, a 1·aricat11rl'd portrait or a NPw York llwaler lady ­1111' ki11d ol' th1•at<'r patron who insists 011 loudly opPning :'v1 & !'vi's in tlw middli! of a quint sc11ne. llrPss1•d i11 a rnnl pink suit, Miduwla Murray­;\/ola11 tunwd in a dynamit'.ally subl111 1rnrl'or­11ta11(·11 as Mrs. Sork1111, and qui11tly charmml the l'lltirl' a11di1•1H'P with lwr crinklPd glances and grand111otlwrly voicl'. 
It was truly a mornPnl of' simplistir glory on this al'.lrPss' part wh1>11 al'll'r Pxplaining that slrn fpll 1111usPatl'd hy tlu• drama in which " ... thny usn lhP 'F' word." sill' playfully glancNI 11ul to Lhn audi­l'lll'C' as ii' in ,wrvous anti1:ipatio11 ol' approval. This ronwdk monologuci is Lim kind of drama col­!Pg1• stt1d1•11ts an• waiting !'or. mosl d(il'initely not IIJ1• high ln11d usually boring) drama that is pre­Sl'll!Pd all too of't('ll on collPg<' campusc•s. 
TllP s1•1·01HI of the 01rn-act plays, "Erni"n's l11<,r1•dihln lllici11atio11s," had a substantially larg­1'1' l'asl and thus was not as 1rnrso11ally engaging. Tiu• 11111n11rous and u1111nc1issary snt changes s1•Pm1•d to crack any comedic momentum just as be quPstioned by his doctor. of wide-eyed delight and vain petulance.
it lwgan. One of the most problematic elements ol' this Yet strangely enough, a wildly erratic feel tu the Tlw play follows lh1\ adventurns of a young piece was that the cast employed accents as var­show as a whole contrasted this sense of modPstydrPam1•r in Fnglanrl whosp imaginativn creations 
ied as Long Island, German. Southern and and understatement. While initially Pntertaining. 
romp Lo lif'c· btd'or1• his nyPs, only for his vision to Brooklyn -whilo the play is set in England. The the idea of a comedy of manners is def'initBly production would have been undermined when the biggest jokn of the evening much more effeciivP-without is an overly powdered wig which was bumpiid, any accents at all, for this beaten and puffod one too many times. aspect had no influence on This overused device grew very sour by tlw 1111d 
-
tho plot. of tlrn piece, and a final powdery nxplosion, which 
Yet dospite these very ended thn show on an inappropriatP 11ot1\, most minor problems, the cast definitely should have been rethought. carried off the farce quite In the f'inal installment o!' the cwPning. "Tho well. Notable pPrformers Philadelphia," three harried city-dwnllers inter­included the scene-stealing sect in a bar to realize they am caught in alter­Lizzie Bracket. whose call of nate realities of sorts, all of' which are 1rnm11d "Jiggie' Monkey" to a shirt­after American cities. To be caught in a less Joe Larson provided the Philadelphia is the worst of all days, for wlrnn one audience with a truly hilari­asks for something, tlrn opposit!l is provided. ous moment. All three performers in this segment were confi­
Bracken. Larson. Bill Fusz dent and well-cast, from the slimy Brett Gansen and Katie Ahern rounded to the erratic Brnndan Geary. With such notable out a quartet of Greek cho­performances, it is not surprising that this final rus-like playi>rs whose m.any one-act play also proved to be the most effoctivo. varied roles showed some Yet it was the big-haired and gum-clrnwing per­real comndic maturity and formance of Barbara Smith that was the most sat­talent. isfying, especially when mentioning that shn is 
This Pxaggeratcd farce led caught in a "Clnveland,'' which she describPs as to a French comedy of man­"Dnath ... without the bonet'its." lier wildly engag­ners, "Lns Pi>rci1~uses ing attitudP-or New York ignorance prov11d to IH' Hidicules," a restoration overwhelmingly hilarious. piecn in which two servants Ho/'reshingly, one of tlrn grnatest criticisms of' take the places of their mas­tho evnning cannot be directPd at thn perf'ormPrs, tcn, to toy with the emotions directors or Lechnical staff, but rather at tlH' of two vain young women. physira I space in which tlw Pvnn ing was pnr­
Tho cast was led nimbly by l'o rm ed. The llcsburgh Auditorium was not .,. the delightful Tiff l{omau desigrwd !'or theater. but ratlrnr f'or lecturns. It and thn dynamic Kati!~ should bt~ rnstrictnd Lo such. Wilcox. Both sncmed to With the lcvi.>I o!' theatrical talPnt in the l'rnsh­undPrstand truly the modAst man class, thesP students should lw grantc·d tinw and understated comedy or in Washington llall. for they certainly dnsPrvn lhis Moliore. The myriad of space. Also, many o!' Urn very notic11abl11 t11chni!'al gasps. clenches of the breast problmns of the ev11ning would lw alll.'viat11d. Such
Freshman Bjll Fusz performs at the Hesburgh Library Auditorium in the First Year Plays. The show consisted of four one-act plays starnng various members of the and snotty demands ably lalunl must rer.civn tlrn attention it most certainly freshman class. prnsenUid a Jll'issy mixturn merits. 



f 
page The Observer• SPORTS Thursday, April 1, 1999 
¦ COLLEGE FOOTBALL 

Watts pleads guilty at homicide hearing 
As.<ociatw Press 
SOMERSET, Ky. 

Former Kentucky football player Jason Watts pleaded guilty Wednesday to reckless homicide in an alcohol~relat· ed truck crash that killed a teammate and another young man, 
Watts entered the plea dur­ing a 10-minute hearing in Pulaski Circuit Court. Judge Daniel Venters granted Watts' request to go to prison imme­diately. 
Venters scheduled senteiH,•. ing for April 16. Puhfski Commonwealth's Attorney Eddy Montgomery said he would ask that Watts serve consecutive terms of five years on each count for a t()tal of 10 years. 
Watts, originally charged with manslaughter, rlediUed to speak in court, . 
He and his attorney, ~ah1es· Lowry, did not comment afterward. · 
~,rs best for everyone to try to get on with their lives," Watts' father, Jim, said. "This is a sad. sad day for every­one." 

The Nov. 15 crash on U.S. 27 north of Somerset injured Watts and killed teammate Arthur Steinmetz and Eastern Kentuckv student Scott Brock. 
Tests showed Watts' blood­alcohol level to be 1 1/2 times the legal limit. Watts fa~ed up to 25 years in priso11 if con­victed on the original charges, 

Under Wednesday's plea, his maximum sentence dropped to 10 years and the wanton endangerment charge was dismissed. 
Watts was hospitalized with an arm laceration. He was 

kicked off the football team 
and left school brieflv before 
returning in January. · 
The tragedy darkened Kentucky's mhst successful football season in years. cli­maxed by anlrivitfltion to the· Outback .BpwL'Watt~. a 2l­
year-old. seru~r ''from Oviedo,,, Fla.. started fO games at cen­tor, anchoring a line that pro­tected star quarterback Tim Couch. 
Steimnetz, 19, had trans• ferred to·· Kentucky from Michigan ~t4(~,~pd ~a.~ sit0 
.ting outa y ·· ~l}UtLWaitl.ng: · .· 
to become .... ·.•·· \t;•; g~otk, 21, was a close)'t:i~nd and higlJschool teammate ofCouch. 
At the tirne ·of the wreck, 
the three were headed for a 
deer hunting e~cursion; Watts 
and Brock hal'.f ~pent several 
hours the. previous night at . a Lexington har"'1b¢re they eel-. ·ehrated.lp.¢'W).l.dcMs' win 
over Vanderbilt,; · · 
The crashticcurred just 
before 7 a.m;,. as Watls 
passed another driver and 
lost control of his, truck, 
which flipped over. 
Montgomety said Watts' lawyers indicated from the start that be, would take resp-0nsibility. Montgomery said Watts will be eligible for "shock" probation, which is given at the judge's discretion to first-time offenders who have served between one and six months of a sentence. 
Such a motiOri>cannot be 
made until atdi'last 30 days 
after sentencing, meaning 
Watts would seive at least 6 
1/2 weeks in prison before 
being eligible. 

Montgomery said he would 
oppose shock probation for 
Watts. 

¦ NATIONAL BASKElBALL ASSOCIATION 
Jordan cannot play dual roles 
IfMichael Jordan 

returns to the NBA, he will have to choose between owning and playing 
Associated Press 

Don't. count on Michael Jordan owning a piece of the Charlotte Hornets and playing for them. too. 
It would be against NH!\ rules, it might tarnish his place in history, and it would involve him bouncing a bas­ketball again -something ho says he's finished doing. 
That was the reaction Wednesday from the league, Jordan's agent and""!ffiTf of his close friends following a report that the five-time MVP was considering coming out of retirement to play for the Hornets next season if he is successful in purchasing a share of the team. 
"There's absolutely no truth to it," agent David Falk said .in a statement released by his office. 
"He's the greatest player to ever play the game, and he would only do himself a dis­service," Charles Barkley said. "I just hope he doesn't play because he'd damage his legendary status." 
And even if Jordan wanted to play for the Hornets. it would be against league rules to do so if he was a p'art­owner. 
The NBA prohibits owners from being players, as Magic Johnson learned three years ago. 
While the prospect of Jordan returning to the court was being widely shot down, thepossibility of him becom­ing an owner remained open. 
Earlier this month, Jordan 
held facfl-to-l'ace discussions with Hornets owner Goorg1~ Shinn month about. buying a 50 percent sham of' tlrn tnam. and the two have agreed to meet again in the noar future. 
Fox Sports, citing unidenti­fied sources close to Jordan, reported Tuesday night that Jordan's best-case scenario would involvn him playing one full season for the Hornets while his ownnrship shares were held in a trust or other­wise del'crrcd. 
"The Michael Jordan and George Shinn negotiations have never involved a playing role for Jordan," Hornets spokesman Harold Kaufman said. 
Jordan, vacationing in the Bahamas, did not return a message seeking comrrwnt. NRA commissioner David Stflrn was out of his office Wednesday and could not be reached. 
A league spokosman pointed out that the NBA constitution prohibits players from being owners. 
When Johnson ended his retirement and returned to the Los Angeles Lakers in 1996, the league made him sell his ownership shares back to principal owner Jerry Buss. 
Johnson later repurchased some of those shares after he finally retired for good. 
Jordan, in announcing his retirement earlier this y1rnr, left the door operr for a possi­ble return by pronouncing himself anywhere from "95" to "99.9 percent retired." 
Those who have seen Jordan recently estimate he is about 20 pounds heavier than his playing weight, and he recently said he hasn't picked up a basketball since hitting the final shot of his career ­the game-winner in Utah at the end or Game (1 or the NB/\ Finals. 
Jordan also recently under­went surgnry on his right index l'ingcr. which Im dam­aged with a cigar cutler. 
Jordan previously gave up basketball in Octolrnr, 1993, lo pursue a career in profes­sion a I baseball, then unre­tirecl in the spring of 1995, 
lie won championships with the Chicago 13ulls in his final three seasons, giving him six f'or his earner. 
Thn scenario of him playing again rrnxt season. according to Fox. also would include Phil Jackson boing brought in to coach the llonwts for orrn year and Dean Smith. Jordan's college coach at North Carolina, being brought aboard as team president. 
Jackson's agent dismissed tho roport, while Smith did not return a phorw nwssage seeking comrntint. 
The Hornets have b<~en a team in turmoil all season. Shinn has bnen going through a divorce and battling nunrnr­ous sexual harassm<\nl allega­tion s • c o a ch D11 v o Cow n n s publicly ripped the organiza­tion before quitting, Anthony Mason has missed tlrn entire season with a shoulder injury and the team's best player. Glen !lice, was traded to tlrn Lakers for Elden Campbell and Eddie Jones. 
The team has hePn playing better n~centlv under interim coach Paul Silas, but it SPPlllS cprtain tlw Hornets will miss the postsnason for the first time sincn 1995-96. 
"First of all, [Jordan! is not good enough to makn that t11am win anyway," Barkley said. 
"They need the old Micluwl .lordan, tlrn guy from f'iv1• or six years ago. to ,!1rnke that team a contender. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame oflice. 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid.
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, _including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

NOTICES FOR RENT 

-1
II 

HOTEL ROOMS FOR BED 'N BREAKFAST GRADUATION! REGISTRY 7 great rooms left for graduation 219·291-7153 weekend at excellent local hotels. Call Anthony Travel at 1-800-736-House For Rent 6377. 4-5 Bedroom Close to Campus 
Includes: Dishwasher. Want to earn some extra money Washer/Dryer, Fridge, Stove. and work in a fabulous place with Remodeling Kitchen in spring. great people? RENT REDUCED! Anthony Travel is hiring student Call 289-4 712 workers for the 1999-2000 school year. 516 BDRM HOMES. For more information please call NEAR CAMPUS. 1 x7080 or go to the office in the FURN. basement of LaFortune. 272-6551 
STAYING IN SOUTH BEND FOR

jLOST & FOUND I
THE SUMMER??? 

Lovely five-bedroom. single family Lost: 100 CDs that were in a black house available for Si.lb-lease. CaseLogic carrying case. About a mile 1rom campus. Lost in LaFortune the night of Safe neighborhood. 2/26/99. Clean. Monetary reward being offered ii Two window air-conditioners. found Washer and dryer, No questions asked. Please call stove, refrige. Brian at 4, 1126 w/ any info. Call 634-0562 for info. 
FURN. ROOM;FURN. ONE BED­
WANTED 
ROOM APT; 

PRIVATE ENTRANCE, SEASONAL SALES PERSON AIR, KITCHEN, NEEDED I.AUN DRY ,PHONE, IN LOCAL GOLF PRO SHOP. UTILITIES INCLUDED. CALL 282-3727 5 MINN. CAMPUS 272-0615 AND ASK FOR DICK WALKER 2 Bdrm Apt at College Park to sub­
lease for summer session. Hotel Help Wanted Call 4-3620. Holiday Inn/Univ. Area needs full &. 
part time help SUMMER SUBLEASE !or Rest. & Bar Upper COLLEGE PARK Server.Bartender, Night Auditor.PM 2 Bdrm, A/C, Van Driver.Desk Clerk.Banquet wash/dryer Capt & also Servers.Outstanding FURNITURE in great cond. benefits.including room discounts couches, tables, beds Apply at 515 Dixieway North. Call 273-2917 
I 
For what is a man to do. if he is in love with another? 

FOR SALE 

Kill the first I reckon ..... 
NEW Rates Phone Cards Beth, 
282 min. $20 call 258-4805 Have fun riding with Laurie! Mike 
GUITAR-Fender Electric/Acoustic, 
cut-away body, 1 yr old. $350 or Sharon, 
B/O. Includes case and stand. I told you that I would. Don't you 
Call Greg at 271-0138 love being random? 
Beautiful brass bed.queen size.with Hey, Marie! Thanks for the coffee,· orthopedic mattress set and deluxe You're swell. 
frame.New.never used.still in plas­
tic.$235 219-862-2082 Jersey -Jersey Dairy Farm for milk. then we're off to Jersey Mike's for subs! 

TICKETS 

What more could we want out of life? 
I need graduation tickets! 
Call Kelly @243-8932 Finn -If you had any brains at all, you'd know people weren't 
In DIRE need of graduation tickets depressed from lack of sunlight! 
PLEASE call John @271-8531 
Julie.-Have a very merry, magi· ROD STEWART 3rd ROW cal, spell-binding, wonderful, excit-APRIL 14 .... 272-7233 ing, birthday. 
f can't wait for you to officially become a bar fly with me. Woo-
PERSONAL woo! 

Fax it fast at THE COPY SHOP in Weapon X is in the HOUSE! 
laFortune. FAX Sending and Receiving. 631-FAX1 LP -workin' the late shift, ahhhh, yeah! 
When you need copies ... We're OPEN!!! Alright. here we go..,. 
THE COPY SHOP 631-COPY Lafortune Student Center Kathleen, you are my sunshine. Mon-Thur 7:30am-Midnight Thanks for the scary man warning. Fri: 7:30am-7,00pm I am glad you are concerned for my 
Sat: Noon-6:00pm safety. 
Sun: Noon-Midnight Hi Meg and Sarah!! Have wonder-English Classes at the South Bend ful breaks. You are the bestest 
English Institute English taught as 
a Second Language. Located two Dillon Boys. You guys are too cool. blocks west of IUSB. ' 9 LEVELS intensive training Cmullark, this is twice. ' NEW SESSION every 4 wks. I am so nice to you. 
"PRIVATE TUTORING avail. Phone 219-287•3622. Hi Diane and Marty and Megan. 
Dan. trying to be all "I'm Tom Does anyone know where Rocko's Cruise," broke our lights. Dumb is? 
boy. The guys at the Mobile Station sure But we forgive you Dan. You know don't 
we are just kidding. Mostly kidding, 
anyway. We spent more time in the car than at the restaurant 
I am glad to see the end of all this talk of extensions, and applications But any trip that ends with yogurt for renewal, and all of that non-can't be bad. 
sense. Megadeath I know what you do Maybe I should make YOU apply every dat at 3 o'clock. 
for renewal. Now there's a thought. 
Just admit it. you're addicted. 
But I could never do that I am too nice. Carmen, I mean Garms, I mean 
Caramella -you'll have to teach me I love Easter. Bunnies, bunnies, your moves so we can fence each bunnies. other. 
I especially like the plastic eggs Timmyo -the next GO model · with money inside them. check out his new calendar. 
Sean you are a very sore loser. Feet who knew reservations could 
be so hard. I'm so e~cited that I'm You were so sure of yourself an adopted Stritzl for the weekend! weren't you? 
C'est toi. (what a great display of Didn't we decide I was going to win French proficiency.) 
either way? 

Murph I hope you're using those pil-You should have offered to split the low punchers effectively. i got them money with me. so you could beat up your room­
mate you know. 

Too late now I guess. 
Oh yeah? Well I invented your Maybe I could loan you some of it. mother. 
Just kidding. Help us. 
I guess I can just pick 'em better Tambre I can't believe you forgot th.an you can. about me in class today. 
We all can't be winners now can Was Jackie Lynn really more inter-we? esting than me? 
I really hope Louise makes it to I think we need to invest in a map of Pennsylvania. South Bend. 
That stalling action hasn't been too We keep getting lost whenever we much fun lately. leave campus. 

Thurs<lay, April I, I999 The Observer• SPORTS page 15 
¦ COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
... 




Francis leaves Maryland for NBA after one season 
COI.UH;E PAHK. Md. 
ShJVP Francis spcnl just one season at Maryland, helping the Tl'rrapins I.D a srhool-rncor<I 28 wins. 
Now tfo• NBA lwl'kons. and he is ('.X!)('.clPd lo Ill' Oil(' or Llrn top pil:ks in the Jurin draft. 
·•t lwliPVI' ii is ti11w to lllkP tlw 111•x1 st.Pp and tak1· 011 a new d1al!PngP... l;rancis said Wednesday in announcing his decision. "It's tinrn to start a new and exciting chapter in my life." 
The 6-foot-3 guard. a second­tnam AII-J\mcrir.an, averaged 17 points a game for Maryland, whirh was once ranked as high as No. 2 and lost to St. John's in llw round of 16 in the NCAA tournament. 
'Tm rnally proud of Stevll," Maryland coach c;ary Wtlliams said. "I don't have any doubt he's ready to play in the NHA. It is obvious Steve will be a very high lottery pick. Very fow peo­ple in thflir lifetime get an opportunity like Steve has in front of h.im." 
Francis plans to finish his degree, adding that money was not the ovnrriding factor in his decision to turn pro. 
"It was just sonrnthing that I weighml in," hfl said. 

Coast Conforence in stnals (2.8). 
Francis joins l"orward Albert White of' Missouri in lnaving r.ol­lege early. 
Otlrnrs who might enter tho NB/\ draft arw Duke's William Avery and 1/fton Hrand, tlw lal­ter the national player of the year; Khalid El-Amin and Richard Hamilton of national champion Connocticut; Lamar Odom of Rhode Island; Hon J\rtnst of St. John's; Baron Davis of UCL/\; .Jumainn Jonns of Georgia; Chris PortPr of Auburn; and Mat.mm Clcavns of' Michigan Statn. 
Two junior point guards. l!d Cola of North Carolina and Scoonie P1•11n of Ohio Stal!i, will return IJl'Xt Sl'.tSOll. 
Thr,•n sPnior Maryland siartPrs l.aron l'rolit, Ohi1111a EkPZil' and TPrTPll Stok1\s ­won't rnturn nnxt year, lnaving forward TPn·rwP Morris tlw only rnturning startPr. 

Franc.is considered entering the NBA draft last season after playing junior college ball at San Jacinto in Texas and Allegany in Maryland. 
Francis, who grow up in Takoma Park, a few miles from the Maryland campus, chose to play for tllf! Terrapins instead. 
In his first year in Division I, he led thfl Terrapins (28-6) in scoring (17.2) and 3-point shoot­ing L388l and led the /\tluntic 
¦ GYMNASTICS 
Romanian GyIDnasts fail to return hoIDe 
As~ciated Press 
IUCHMOND. Va. 
Thr()e top Romanian male gymnasts apparently decided not to return. to their native country following a gymnas• tics meet last week. although no one seems to know where they might be. 
Marian Malita, Viorel Popescu and Vasile Cioana have not been seen since Saturday, Homanian officials . think U10 three decided to stay in the United States for good, said Hon Galimore, senior director for the American men's gymnastics program. 
'Tm told that they did leave a note saying that they planned to stay behind,•· Galimore said Wednesday. "Since this has taken place, we've been trying to locate 
them  on  behalf  of  the  
Romanian  Gymnn stics  
Foderation.  

"We've taken the time to contact several gym club owners that have foreign ath­letes working or training there. We've been unsuccess­ful at locating them." 
There are no signs of foul play in the disappearance, but FBI oflicials are checking to ho sure, according to a statement from the bureau's Hichmond ofli.ce, 
"We'rn trying to find them to encourage them to go back and allow us to help them come here legally," he said. 
''I think they're a little young (20 to 23) and they probably have not thought through things." 
No laws prevent Homanians from emigrating, but it is dif­ficult to get long-term visas to move from parts of Europe to the United States, sald Stefan Maier, press secretary for t}w Homanian Embassy in Washington, O.C. 
The three gymnasts have temporary visas for their visit to the United States. Nicolae Vieru, head of Romania's gymnastics foderation, told private news agency Mediafax that Cioarm's visa is good until 2000, whiln Malita's and Popescu·s expire at the end of /\pril. 
If the athletes do approach 
U.S. officials and request asy­lum, their cases would be decided by the Immigration and Naturalization Service or an immigr&tion court judge, INS spokesman Huss BergMon said. 
The INS has not heard from the gymnasts or the Homanian gymnastics team, Bergeron said. 
The Romanian team was in Richmond fur a meet' last Friday featuring Amorican men against Romania and China. 
The Homanians stayed at the Omni Hotel in downtown Hichmond. 
Sometime after the event, Malita, Popnscu and Cioana left the hotel and didn't return. 
On Sunday, wlwn thti tnam visited the Homanian embassy, the three gymnasts were already missing, Maier said. 
"The person at the embassy who was stirving as a host ... was told by the team that they were very upset that three or them left," he said. 
The rest of the Romanian team returned home Tuesday. 
News reports from Romania said that if the three stay in the United States. it would most likely be to make more money. 
The average monthly salary in Homania is equivalent to $78. 
If the three do not return to Honmnia, it could damage the nation's chances of qualifying for the 2000 Olympics, Galimore said. 
Tim l 999 world clrnmpi­onships are in October, and the top 12 teams qualify for U11-i 2000 Games. 
"They're definitely within the top six" on the Hornnnian team, Galimore said. "All lhr(l(l of thoso guys would dof­inite ly be players for Homania's world champi­onships team." 

Have something to say? Use Observer Classifieds. 
-
-
..... 
t:U,,4 WWW 

p;ige 16 The Observer• SPORTS Thursday, April 1, 1999 
¦ NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION 




Wizards set defensive record against Magic 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Juwan lloward scored 20 points and the Washinglon Wizards usPd a reeorcf defensive perl'ormanr.c lo beat the Orlando '.vlagk 84-73 Wednesday night. 
Tl!P 73 points by Orlando were tlw fewest l'\'l'I' allowed by Washington, The pnwious rncord was 74. b_,-ClP\'eland in 1982 and\liamiin 1997. 
Tl'rn Davis wPnt 6-for-6 from the fit;ld and matched his sea­son-high with 12 points, includ­ing six points during an 8-0 lirst­q uarter run that gave lhe \l\'izards the !I-lad for good. 
The \,\lizards, who bkw a 10­
¦ COLLEGE HOCKEY

-
point lead in the final three min­utes and Jost at Milwaukee the previous hight. had to hold off the Ylagic after squandering most of a 10-point. fourth-quar­ter lead. 
The Magic, who ended a two­game winning streak. lost lead­ing scorer '.'Jick Anderson with 
6:37 left in the first half. Anderson, averaging 16.5 points, strained his left hamstring when he fell on Washington's \.litch Richmond and is listed as day-to­day. 
Darrell Armstrong scored 15 points for the Magic, who fell apart after trailing Ly only thren points at halftime. The Wizards, who never trailed. opened the 
BC will try to avenge '98 loss 
Associated Press 
ANAHEIM, Cali!'. 
Afler an overtime loss in last year's championship game, Boston ciillege has another opporttinity to win its second NCAA hockey championship ­a half-century after its only title. 
The Eagles (27-11-4) face Maine (29-6-4) in the first semifinal Thursday at the Anaheim Arena. 
New Hampshire (30-6-3) will meet' Michigan State (29-5-7) in the other semifinal. 
Despite last season's success. Boston College is the least likely mem­ber of what is now officially dubbed the Frozen Four. 
The Eagles finished third in Hockey East and qualified for the NCAA tour­nament by winning their conference tournament. 
Seeded fourth. Boston College 


"We've got a little streak going here," forward Blake Bellefeuille said after Wednesdays practice. "We're on top of our game right now. If we play our style, I think we'll come out with a W." 
Boston College and Maine have split their four games this SP.ason. with the Eagles winning the most recent matchup 3-2 March 19 in the Hockey East Tournament sr,mil'inal. 
"You have lo prepare to play a great team like Maine," said Bellel'etiille, who scored two power-play goals and had an assist the last time the teams met. "You have to focus and play your best game." 
Although the tournament is being played west of Colorado for the first time in its 52-year history, both teams have links to the Anaheim rink. 
For Boston Colleges seven seniors, it is a return trip to where thei.r careers began. 
They played in a 7-1 loss to Miami (Ohio) in a Great Western l•reeze-Out tournament game Oct. 15, 199.5. 
ror Maine's Steve Kariya, the 

..., game is his first opportunity to play at the home rink of his brother, Paul. the captain of the 
Recycle 
The Observer. 

second half with an 11-1 run. The Magic missed their first seven shots of the half and corn• milted seven turnovers, including four offensive fouls, in the lirst 
five minutPs of the third quar­ter. 
The lead twice grew to 10 points in the first half until the Mabric rlosed to 43­40 at the hall'. Orlando CP.I1­ter Isaac Austin scored all lO of his points before 

Nil L's Mighty Ducks of Anaheim. 
The younger Kariya, a senior left wing and team captain, is a l'inalist for thi> Hobey Baker Award, annually the break. After !'ailing behind remaining. Richmond, who lin­54-41 in the third quarter, the ished with 16 points, respondr.d Magic couldn't get closer than six with two free throws and a dri­unlil B.J. Armstrong's jumper cut ving layup to get thn lnad back to 
the deficit to 74-70 with 2:53 eight and sr.al the victory. 

t' 
I. 

"N~NTEO 



I \ 

The Office of Multicultural 
Student Affairs has openings for energetic Student Interns. Must enjoy 
interaction with students, faculty and administrators. Computer knowledge and reliability are essential !! 
APPLICATIONS ARE AVAILABLE AT: . 
The Office of Multicultural Student Affairs 210 LaFortune Stu.dent Center 
I. • 



Nonfiction -Poetry ­The Cloister Walk Little Girls in Church Dakota: A Spiritual Journey The Middle of the World Falling Off 

-
Lecture 





7:30 p-n 

Tu~day, Apri( 6th 
101 De'Qartolo Hall 
"Self-Knowledge and Other Illusions: 
Or, 

Where A Cloister Walk Can Lead" 

l=betry Reading 
-
4:00 p-n WednG':;day, April 7th 
,.,..

Eck 'Qookc;tore 
Co-Sponso,·ed by The Arts & Letters Core Program, The Creative Writing Program, The Department of English, The Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts, and The Paul M. and Barbara Henkels Visiting Scholar Series. For more information, call 219.631.4265. 





r--­
1 I 
page l 8 The Observer• SPORTS Thursday, April l, l 999 
.. ¦ MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Advertisements focus on increasing attendance 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Major lnagun baseball, still trying to claw Lack to the aver­age attendancr. levels of the strikn-shortenl'd 1994 season. has cast well-known players writing, phoning or faxing diehard baseball fans in a new adv('rtising campaign. 
BasPball's marketPrs are hoping to get more of you out to tlw ballganrn as w11ll as boost viewership on TV when you can't make it to th11 park. 
Tlrny feel tlw ni>w campaign dubbed "Fan Mail" will remind fans of tlrn underlying appeal of tlw game and its uf't011 quirky customs while forging deeper ties between fans and modern
-playPrs. In one cornmNcial. a chubby fan named Hic'h is amused to find San Diego superstar Tony Gwynn has written to thank him for coming to all those games last ye,.u. But Gwynn notes in the letter that he and the other players 
.. noticed you had a tough timo remcmbtiring the words to the National Anthem" and sent along a copy of the lyrics to help out. 
The ads are designed to extend the momentum generat­e.ct last season in one of the ganrn·s most exciting years. 
Mark McGwirn and Sammy Sosa earh surpassed Hoger Maris' home run record of 61 home runs in a season, David Wells pitched a perf'ect game for the eventual World Series champions, the New York Yankees, and Baltimorp's Cal Hipken Jr. decided to end his record for most consecutive games played. 
The ads start running on Sunday's telecast on ESPN of the season opener betvrnen Urn Colorado Hockios and the San Diego Padrns from Monterrey, Mexico. 
Boston Hed Sox shortstop Nomar Garciaparra is featured in one ad that has him leaving a message on the answering machine of a fan named Keith to thank him for putting on his rally cap -a regular baseball cap turned inside out and worn backwards -at a critical moment on that afternoon's game. 
The ad shows Keith leading the cheers in his section of the stands and Garciaparra con­necting at the plate to delight thf! crowd. 
"By the way, can you muke any away games," •the player asks. 
The ad agency. Vigilante of l\iew York. a unit of Chicago­based Leo RurnPtt, has also created three more ads that individual teams can tailor to feature their own players in local markets. 
In one ad. a player srmds an E-mail to young Pete to.;.tbank him for sticking up for the play­er when a bigger kid was heck­ling liim from the stands. 
Another arl shows a player sending a fax to a fan named Mike who is nursing a sorn elbow injured when hP scram­bled to catch a bait hit into 1.he 
stands. "Swoet catch at thn game today," the player wrote. "Just make sure you takn care or that elbow." 
The third ad for local use has a player who hit a home run calling a fan to apologize that the ball broke the fan's rear window. 
The campaign hopm; to build 011 last year's rcsurgnnce ol' interest in baseball. 
Attendance rose 10 pnrcnnt to a rnrorcl of' morn than 70 million people, helped by the addition of nHw teams in Tampa Bay and Arizona. 
Average attendance per game also rose 3.8 percent to 29,376. but that was still 7 per­cent below the :-n .612 average in 1994 wlrnn thwseason was eT1<lcd by a lab.or dispute in August and the World Snries was canceled. 
Altfl!Hlance tumbled to an average of 2.5,260 in tlrn 1995 season once the lalrnr dispute was settled. 
Additional ads havn been prepared by Waylon Ad Inc. of St. Louis featuring Hipk1)n, Mo Vaughn of the Anahnim Angels and a rotating group of scwcn other players to promol11 base­ball·s affiliation with the Boys & Girls Clubs of America. 
Kathleen Francis, tlrn top marketing executivn for major league baseball. said the ideas for the "Fan Mail" ads w1\re chosPn to striko a chord with both serious and casual fans of basnball. 
"Thn players noticP more than we rcaliw," she said. 
Jacqueline Parks. baseball's director of' advertising. said the ads also help showcase thn per­sonality of' the playors. "Pc>opl11 want to get to know Urn playnrs more," shn said. 
The ads will run on tlw TV rwtworks that carry bas,diall games-· Fox. NBC. ESPN, h>x Sports Nnt. FX and TBS as wdl as on local outlPts ol' tlw !<'ams' choosing. 
Francis said the rampaign will be worth $25 million. 11101'1) than twicn as largo as last yt!ar's baseball ad spnnding. 
¦ NATIONAL COLLEGIATE ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION 
NCAA plans to modify eligibility 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. 

. The NCAA said Wednesday it could have changes ready in freshman eligibility standards by September that likely wilt put less weight on the standardized test scores that a federal judge ruled discriminatory. 
The NCA.\ said it had been studying modifications in its minimum standards for months before li.S. District Judge Ronald BuckwaHer ruled in Philadelphia last week that retying on test scores "has an unjustified disparate impact against Atiic_;m-Americans." 
The standards -which include minimum scores on the SAT or ACT. a core group of high school courses and a minimum grade-point average in that core ­remain in effect after the 3rd U.S. Court of Appeals on Tuesday issued a stay of Btickwalter's ruling. 
The NCM hope to have modifications of the stan­dards. known as Proposition 16, in place by Sept. 1, said Penn State president Graham B. Spanieri chair­man ofthe NCAA DivisionTBoard ofDirectors. 
'Tm not promising we will have it done by that date. Circumstances can change," Spanier said. "The stay gives us a window of opportunity following pur own schedule and pursuing our resea.n:hto have some­thing i.n place by Sept; 1." · 
The NCAA will continue to pursue an appeal of 
Buckwalter's ruling not only because it struck down 
Proposition·16, butbecause:italso r;'fised otherissues 
that needed clarification, Spanier said. · 
The standards were challenged by four black ath­letes who contended they wern depiedathletif schol~ . arships or sports eHgiJ:,ilitybecause.thef did 1'9lSC(Jfe• 
the minimum on the standardized tests. · 
The tests have long been a subject of debate in the 
academic. and athletic.worlgs as to %hether.J~~y are 
discriminatory. . •·•·.... · . < .:,tt&o. ·..·•.... 
Proposition 16 was a refinement of Proposition 48, 
which was enacted during the NCAA convtmtion in 
1983 at the bidding ofrefrrrn-mindecl uniyer~ibln:e:s-: 
idents Who wantedtr1ughet acadomic sb.tllda,r:cls. •· . ,; 
Spanier said some sort-of minim(nn standards are needed to avoid revisiting "the bad old days" when high school athletes arrivAd on canip~s Hl-equi)J~d t? handle-the rigors-of ui:Hversityc1.1't;,ademi~~. j\lete0 exploited for their athletic ahilUy ah~ then ihrqwn out without education or skills when their eligibility was used up.. In studies s.i:!}ce then, the NCAA. luisJot1nd athletes graduate at a. higlier cateilian the/~heraf student body. . ... 
"The NCAA position is ..that it h~$ produc.¢9-suffi-· cient evidence linking graduation·rates to· test ~core, cutolTu under Proposition:t6;"·Spani.,.tsrtid..... >< " 
Modifying Proposition· 16. Iikely wiU h1volve adjusl.ing the weighting of the three components that make up the minimum standards, Sp!l.l1iers4icl.Jn. pif~'.+it;;u}a.r.; more weight would Hkely,,be giwrrfo•'overall perforc,•. mance in high school. 
Studies show that the "single best-predictor of sue~ ooss is performance, ilT ~i~b ·~<:1lp9l,''..,Sf!.t'ri-i¢t'•'.$1:tl9<'; 
There are menihors of the. "NCAA'b6ara .WM )o¢lieye' high school performance 
"is extremely important and should carry the greatest weight." 

FOR the EDUCATION and RESEARCH COMMUNITY 
IDGH MARl(S FROM MORNINGSTAR, S&P, MOODY'S, -MONEY MAGAZINE AND BILL. 
•Source; Morninptil, Inc,, Principi1 V,c.n11hle-ArJNHjties/Life 12/31/98. **These top ratings a.rt ba.:.cd on TIAA't;cxuptional financial mcngth, clainis•paying ability and nvcrall opcuting pcrfurmanc\'.•••s,.,.tt,r.,."&Pom-11 lnHff'Anrt llatil'IO .A,u,/ysi,, 1998; Upper An~yrical Scrvicc:s, Inc.• Upp,r-Virecror-s' AnldytJ,al Uat1t, 1!1198 (Quarterly). TIM-CRl!.f Individual and ln1.tilutio11al. Service,, lrm distributes CREI• uttific:atea and intere1tt ih the TIAA iu.1 f..aate Accnurit. THchc-rs P~rsonal lnve11ors &rvicu. Inc. di11ributH 1he TIM-CkEF MutuAI funda. 
1:or more cnntpk-k .information, iacludi.ng diar,e, llOO~xpen~1, ple&H c.aJI for prwptduaci;, Ju,~ ,~m uufoliy k,fo,-r you invut ur Rnd money. To reque,i proape-c1uae11, call J 800&12-27.33, u-t. 5509, lnvestmrnt• i11 Kcurltir, •uch .na mutual ruru:l" and v&l"Ulb1r annui1i~• 11.-e 1ubj,:,c1 10 u,rtain ri•lu induding 1hr _ponihle lou of principa-1. 

ow WWW> 
I ' 

·------, 
hol!•s in tlrn linl'l1p for Mainieri The other significant injury in his rnturn last wenk against so.'' but rather opportunities for play­the lineup affects tlrn pitching Western Michigan before start­The co-captain Shilliday will
Baseball 
ers to i::tep up. rotation, but much like the hit­ing last Sunday at Hutgnrs. complete the l'our-man rotation ... 
Thursday, April l, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 19 
----------------------------·----~-------------------.-:..--=--­

continued from page 24 
it to win dost' gam11s." 
Tlw production or Lim course would b,i impossibln wilhout thn l'ft'orts of' thn enlir11 niirn-man lirwup to contribute al th,i plal1\. 
The injuri11s have not cmatnd 
GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY'S 
GATEWAYTOBUSINESS 
SUMMER PROGRAM FOR NON-BUSINESS STUDENTS June 6 -June 26, 1999 
For more information can: (202) 607-4696 
e-mail: execcdu@gunct.georgetown.edu or visit http://www.gsb.georgetown.edu/dept/ execed/programs/gateway.htm 

"I think one of the things Coach ters, the pitchers have also He was rocked in that outing is committed to is stepping up stcppnd up their production. and has just started his return. Urn play or overyone on the With Alex Shilliday just returning "He just needs to get back intu team," junior Jeff Perconte said. from a shoulder injury, the Irish pitching shape and become 
Pnrcont,i has iakcn Mainieri's have rnlied on the trio of Aaron sharper," Mainieri said. "There's focus to hcari. hitting-.::345 with Heilrnan, Tim Kalita and Scott no question that Alex has proven fivn HBls and three doubles in Cavey to retire opponents. himself time and again in his Urn last IO gamtls. Shilliday pitched an inning in career and he will continun to do 
¦ MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish aim to snap losing streak against Purdue 
By BRIAN KESSLER Spom F.ditor 
The 26th-ranked Notre Dame tennis team will look to snap its three-match losing streak on Monday when it trav­tils to West Lafayette. Ind. to face in­state rival Purdue. 
..'.'We had a ·winning streak going for a while, but then we had a Lad Blue­Grny !Classic! and then had a closn matr.h with Illinois, but w1i foll short them too," said singles player Andrnw Laflin. "It hurts to lose. so we're defi­nitely looking to turn things around." 
The 47th-ranked Boilormakers am playing solid t11nnis. 
Purdue has upped its record to 11-2 on the season and remain a perl'eci :l-0 in the conference. 
Notre Danrn, on the other hand, has faced stiff competition in recent weeks and has fallen to 11-7 overall. 
"Purdue is a good team and it should be a great match," said junior All­American Hyan Sachire. "Wn'vc gotien the better or them over the past f'ew matches~ but Notre Dame and Purdue is always a good rivalry." 
With just three matches remaining before the Big East championships in Miami, Fla., the Irish realize the importance or this match and would like to set the tone for the remainder of the season with a victory in its final away match. 
"This will be a chance for us to gain our confidence back, especially with Big East coming up,» said Lanin. 
Notre Dame dropped a close match to 
No. 2 Illinois last 
Saturday. 
The Fighting Illini 
won three of the four 
singles matches that 
went to three sets to 
claim the 5-2 victorv. 
Brian Patterson 

played a brilliant matC'h at No. 2 sin­gles, dcf'eating No. 55 Cnry Franklin, <1• 3,6-4. 
S,)nior captain Andy Warford won at No. 6 singles. 
The Irish 11m hoping lo aveng1• tlH~ disappointing loss by knocking off a different Big Ton opponent. 
"That's the thing about collng,~ il'n­­nis. You losn a heartbn~aknr and thon a few days later, you're out playing another good tnam," said Sachirl'. "Thern's no tinrn to sulk, you just lrnv,\ to comr. out rnady to play." 
Purdue will entortuin Minnesota on Sunday, before hosting Notrn Damn tho following day. 
The Boilermakers am coming off a grueling 4-3 victory ovnr Ohio Statn. 
Thoy gol out to a fast start, by taking the doubles point with· victories in the No. 1 and No. 2 slots. 
The top two Purdue tandnms am each 3-0 in Big Ten action. 
Jamie Gordon filled in nicely at No. 1 singles for Lho injured Cris Jamns. Gordon was a (i-3, 2-(i, 7-5 winner over OSU's Chris Porter. 
Derek Myers and Jason Marshall sealed the Boilermaker victory with wins at No. 2 and No. :1 singles, rnspnc­tively. 
Notre Dame has struggled in the dou­bles department lately and will look to turn it around against Purdue. 
"We've lost quite a few doubles points and it's frustrating becausff then we have to win four singles matches which is always a struggle." said Laflin. 
The Irish will most likely send Sachire, Patterson, Matt Daly, Laflin, Casey Smith and Warford to the court in singles. 
"Purdue is vnry similar to us," said Laflin. "It will be a battle, but if wn play well and execute, hopefully wn'II be able to gnt the job done." 
with his probable start on Saturday against Connecticut. 1lnilman, the two-time Big East, Pitchnr of the Weck, will open the series today followed most likely by Kalita and then Cavey to open the series against the Huskies. 
The Observer/Jett Hsu 
Freshman singles player Andrew Lalim and the Irish will travel to Purdue Monday to take on the 47th-ranked Boilermakers. 
Page 20 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, April I, 1999 
Freshman Retreaf;#23 ( April 9­
L 

10) Sign-up I!/t 
Continuing week o-f'March 26, 103 Hesburgh Lib~firy, 112 Badin 
f'i£i-,:

Hall, or see your ·:;· hall rector 
Targeted Dorms: Badin, Breeti-'Phillips, Keough, Knott. Lyons, Pasquerila East/Stanford, Welsh 
Sign-up for "Whatrs the Future of This Relationship?", Sundayr April 11 
Continuing week of March 26, 
112 Badin Hall 
An opportunity to-expfore issues 
and questions facing couples in 
significant relationships. 

:·\,iA,

Tuesday,Marc _· ·--­7:QO .p,.m~ -C . 
St .-. -f th 
d ---·m 
9: ·-· _-· _.-0 viduat confes StatiORS in th 
Holy Thursday, April 1, 1999 
9:00 a.m. -Morning Prayer 
5:00 p.m. -Evening Mass of the Lord's Supper 
6:30 p.m. -Adoration in the Lady Chapel 
11:00 p.m. -Tenebrae 
Good Friday, April 2, 1999 
9:00 a.m. -Morning Prayer 
12:00 Noon -3:00 p.m. Silent 
·• I 
Hours of Prayer 
3:00 p.m.. -Celebration of the Lord's Passion 
7:15 p.m. -Stations of the Cross 
Holy Saturday, April 3, 1999 
9:00 
a.m. -Morning Prayer 

9:00 
p.m. -The Paschal Vigil 


Easter Sunday, April 4, 1999 
8:00 a.m. 10:00 a.m.. 12:00 
noon -Easter Sunday Mass 
7:15 p.m.. -EasterVespers 
The Triduum Begins... Jim Lies, C.S.C. 
Even though we nre baptized, what toe constantly lose crnd betrny is precisely that which we received at baptism. Therefore Easter is our return every year to our own baptism, whereas Lent is our preparation for that return -the slow and sustained effort to perform, at the end, our own "passage" or "pascha" into new life in Christ ... Each year Lent and Easter nre, once again, the rediscovery and the recovery by us of w/znt we were made through our own baptismal death and resurrection. 
-Alexander Schrnemann 
Vt;h ,. . 
I don't remember the day when I decided to be a Catholic... and I don't mean the day of my baptism in the first few weeks of my life. I didn't decide that... my parents did. I remember long ago envying those who converted to Catholicism because it ocurred to me that they had a choice, and I didn't feel like I did. Until I realized that the choice was mine, to claim it or not... to profess and live my Catholic faith, or not. I don't remember a particular day on which I said, as an adult, I want to be a Catholic, I ,vant to follow Jesus. And yet I have, most assuredly... and do. Somewhere along the line, the renewal of my bap­tismal promise became my own. Somewhere along the line I realized that I do believe in the God of Jesus Christ and in the God in Jesus Christ... call it grace, or bum luck... all I know is that I believe. My faith in this God is so real that I want to celebrate iL. even the worst of it... because the worst of it, the crucifixion and death of Jesus, is, paradoxi­cally, the best of it. Our very salvation is tied up in it. We commemo­rate this great salvific event liturgically in the Triduum. 
Much can be said about the Triduum, those days which embrace the Paschal Mystery. "Triduum" in the Latin simply means "a space of three days," but as it is used in the Christian tradition it is meant to signify the three days prior to Easter Sunday: Holy Thursday, Good Friday, and Holy Saturday. The words of the tradition and of the present litur­gical books convey the intensity and unity of the hours around the Vigil. These days call us to fast and pray, to keep watch, and to enter into the holy mysteries of Christ's passion, death and resurrection. We come face to face with the very reality of our own lives, our own dying and rising. Our oneness with Jesus as members of his body, our one­ness with each other, and our oneness in the death and resurrection of Jesus is ritualized in the liturgies of the Triduum and realized in our participation in them, and in our very lives as Christians. 
It is during the Easter Vigil that we as a community initiate and wel­come into full communion those who have, as adults, chosen to join the Catholic Church. They have been preparing for the past several months through the Rite of Christian Initiation of Adults (RCIA). Some will be baptized and others will be received into full communion with the Catholic faith from other Christian traditions. I would urge you to keep these folks in your prayers during these days, and to reflect yourself on the importance of your own baptism. 
These are important days for all of us. Days during which each of us stands alone before God to renew our commitment. It is an opportunity for us as adult Christians to say yet again, "Yes, I believe!" It is an opportunity for us as a community as well to stand side by side in our shared commitment to live the call of Jesus, to rededicate ourselves to that call, and to build the Kingdom together. Please join with me in the days ahead in celebrating the glory and greatness of these days, whether it be at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart, the Church of Loretto, a residence hall chapel, or at your home parish. We join with the whole Church not only in remembering the events of Jesus's passion1 death and resurrection, but, as the Body ofChrist, we ourselves partake in them even now that they might transform our very lives. 
-0MPUS 
MINISTRY 

Thurs<lay,April l, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 21 

¦ WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
Irish plan to pick up pair of -wins in Pennsylvania 
BY GENE BRTALIK Sport, Writer 
Al't1'1" finishing thnir llpPning lwnwstand with a 1-1 rt>cord, tlw NotrP llanw wonwn's larrnss1• tPam will spt'IHI l·astl'r hn•ak i11 l'Pnnsylvnnia. 
Tlw Irish (4-2l an• coming ofT a l11q.\l' I8-(1 win against tlw UnivPrsily or C:01111P1·tiru1. WhilP till' tPam traill'd by an l'Hrly srnrP or :{-2, tlw Irish hPld° !hi' lluskins srort>IPss for :\:i 111i11ulPs. racking up I :l p11i11ls. 
I.Padi11g 1.111' Irish i11 scoring 0111·1• again was l.at•I O'Slw11gh111'ssy with six goals and 1111'1'1' assists. 
I !Pr IH'rfor11111111·1' 1Jro11gl1L h1•r 111 2(, goals 011 lhP s1•aso11. rn11· lll'hind lu•r lotal from lasl 
sPaso11. O'Shaugl1111issy's 11i1w 
points against Co11lll'l'lin11. malt:h1•d captain KPrry ( :allahan 's 11) 1)7 pPrformancc against Slanf'ord. 
Callahan also PXttmdnd lwr goal-st'oring strnak lo 20 1-{<Ulll'S with 0111• goal and four assists i11 tJw win. 
"WP 1·p1•og11izml our mistakns from llw Ohio StatP gamn and put tlwm to usn against Connecticut, and lwo] hopn to use tlinm again in the upcom­ing games," said Maura Doylr.. 
"Wn just hav11 to renwmber thn fundamnnlals ancl focus on llw ganw to comn out on lop," slw adc!Pd. 
On Saturday, thn tnam will takP on tlw Wildcats of Villanova, who entnr llw game with a :1-4 rPcorcl after posting wins ov11r Drnxt)l, Duquns1w and Bucknnll. hut am cu1-r(mtly riding a two-garnP losing stmak. 
To slop tlrn Wildcats, tlw Irish will haw to control their IJPst play1•r. sPnior MPghan DoylP. l)oylP nnlnrs tlw SNlSIHl as a snco11d-tP11111 AII­A11rnrira11. amassing !) I goals and IO assists last yoar. Slw rurrnntly has :lO goals on tlw season. 
Thn pnrson to guard Doyle may lw one who best knows lwr styl!i of play -her sister, Notrn Dame sophomore Maura. 
"I have mixed emotions going into the game. I am nur­vous playing against my sistnr, but I am glad that my family 

will be there," said Maura Doyle. 
"It is going to be weird telling my teammates that they have to shut [Mcghan I down if we want to win." 
Arter tlw team takes ofT Sunday to celebrate Eastnr, they rnturn to action late Monday night in a ganrn against the Univnrsity ol' Pennsylvania Quakers who am winless in live gamos. Pennsylvania will take on Tmnple bef'orn playing the Irish 1111 Monday. The Irish del'ensn wil.l be cru­cial in this match-up. as they allt\lllJ)L Lo contain l'ormer Ivy l.1\agu1\ Hooki1\ or thP Y1iar llrooke .lcmkins. "Carrie IMarshall I and tlw ddense played a gn~at game tlrn other day. "Tlrny am the keys to the start of our offonse. once they make a stop the offense l'ceds off that." said Maura Doyle. II' the Irish put in the same effort tlrny shownd against Connecticut last Sunday, the team could arrive back i11 South ~end latr, Monday night owning a 6-2 record. 

-

Tennis 
continued from page 24 
Pavilion duP lo dark1wss. 
Wind al'f't>rll'd Lill' play of most si11gl1•s 111atclws, l'orci11g pIa y" rs Io r h u II gI' t h ,.; r 
Is your friend having a birthday? Advertise it in The Observer. 




White House Drug Czar Barry R. McCaffrey 
Director, Office of National Drug Control Policy 

will visit Notre Dame to present the 
1999 National Drug Control Strategy 
Tuesday, April 6 
7:00 p.m. 

McKcnna Center Auditorium (formerly the Center for Continuing Education) 
ganws. "!\ny time it's that windy, it kind of evens out a match. 
"It takes away from what you can do in the game. You can't do as much," said Hall. 
Tlw Irish return to action with a pair or matches against l'urdun and Illinois State on 
Saturday at 1 and 3 p.m. 
"Purdue always plays pretty well against us. We need to stay on top of our games," said Dasso. 
"They're one of those teams that we definitely should win against, but thPy can still play well," she said. 
¦ TENNIS 

Hingis faces tough 
competition at Cup 
Assodatcd Prc.s 
. HILTON HEAD ISIAND, S.C. 
When Martina Hingis won the Family Circle Cup two years ago, she was on anothor level. Now, her dominance is not so clear cut. 
"Everybody has improved so much," said I-lingis, the tourna­ment's top seed who dis­patched Sylvia Plisr.hke 6-3, 7 -5 in her first match Wednesday. "The Williams sisters, Undsav [Davenport] took over No. 1 for a while. There are so many more dangerous players to watch out for.'' 
But many of them have decided to pass on the event. 
Hingis seems to have the inside track to the tournmnimt title with Serena Williams and Davenport out with injuries, and Venus Williams' decision to skip tho Family Circle. 
However, second-seeded Monica Seles, No. (J Patty Schnyder and No, lO Conchita Martinez may challengn Ilingis. They advanced, as did No. 13 
Silvia Farina, No.  I 4 Elena  
Likhovtseva  and  No.  16  
Henrieta Nagyova.  

And Iva Ma,joli dtifoatnd No. 9 Irina Spirlea 1-6, 6-4, 6-2 in Wednesday's evening match. 
Hingis roi-;e to No. 1 at this tournament in 1997 and, when 


· small chanue 
.HIiie 2lledroom Townhomes Avallable tor 
j,wv,· .--_ 9-Doschoo1,vear. As low as $262.00 · per person! AIIPIJ todavl 
{(,:lurua creek Apartments 

--212-8124 
it was over, had extended her streak to 31 straight match vic­tories and six straight champi­onships. 
She was 16 vears old, won three of the fot1r Grand Slams that year and finished with a tour-best 75 match wins. 
Last year, Hingis learned it wasn't easy to stay on top. She won tive limes, down from her 12 titles a vear earlier, and took only ·one ma_jor, the Australian Op1•n. 
By year's ond, Davenport supplanted I lingis as No. 1 and sisters Venus and Serena Williams began to crowd tlrn spotlight Hingis had ownf'd. 
''I know how I folt when I kind of played al the lop level and nobody was heating me. You just feel invincible," Ilingis said. 
Espndally onn who's back on top after regaining No. l with conseeuUve wins at the Australian and Pan Pacil'il' tournaments in February. 
After taking llw first silt 
against PlischkA without much 
trouble. Hingis foll behind in the second 3-0. Just as sudchm­ly, she was up :i-3. Yet., she needod four morn games to close out Plischkr. 
"I had kind of rnluxed after Urn first si,1.,'' she said. "I just should havo gone for it morn." 
• 
¦ 

-
.r 


Thmsday, April I, 1999 
page 22 The Observer• SPORTS 
rr~~~~~~~~~~;;;;;;; 
... 
Lacrosse 
continued from page 24 

Doug Shanahan leads the Hofstra offPnse. The sophomore midfielder Ir.ads the team in points with 10 and is s<>cond in goals with fivo. Shanahan, Llw l998 ,\merican East Roukio of' the Ypar. is S()t'ond on the team both in groundballs With 29 and in face-offs, going 18 l'or 29. 
The Irish drfonso has enjoyed suc­cess against talented rnidfielders in the past. On Tuesday against Butler, the Irish held Bulldog second team All­American Cory Kahoun pointless. 
On defense. junior goaltender Mike Demeo has played tremendously for Hostra. Ile has been a brick wall between tlrn pipes for the Plying Dutchmen, n•gi.stering a .638 save per­centage. 
Co-captain Chris Dusseau, David 
Ulrich and Glatzel will bo faced with 
the task of conquering Demeo. Ulrich, 
Glatzel and Dusseau stand at one. two 
and Lhrce, respectively, in total points 
on the year. 
Ulrich's twin brother, Todd, starts at 
midfield for the Irish and is fourth on 
the Irish points list. 
The Ulrich twins and Glatzel are 
familiar teammates. All three played 
for Baltimore lacrosse power-house 
Boys' Latin in high school 
"We've been playing together for five 
years now," Glatzel said, "so we know 
the little things each of us do really 
well. Plus, the Ulrichs have been play­
ing together their entire lives, so they 
are like second nature." 
The Plying Dutchmen and the Irish 
square off in Hofstra Stadium Saturday 
at 1:30 p.m. 
GOT SPORTS? FILL US IN. 1-4543 

University of Notre Dame Department of Music pr~sents 
Ah.eub~MusrQ\TE 
'-­

0RGANUM AND CHANT IN HONOR OF SAINTS 

l!U 
• t iXhlCllli'lllt 
~~••• •,v., ••:-··'•· ·,· ••••-~-~•,,•,••• ~•­
~r .-r;;­
7t::::r; 
______. 
(G.tutfJ. ~(Q'~Il:I titllLUtltlll\~­~ iJ ~ -~ Ii 
...... :'i ' ¼ ~-:--+~• tN, 
110tn(Ul'!Uf-~;lelt'utrllltl1 

~We want you... to ~ Teach Aerobics 
Auditions for Step, Hi/lo and Toning instructors will be held on Thursday, April 22. 
·Leadership skiJJs ·Earn $$$ 
·Gain knowledge in the fitness field ·Meet peopre •New skilrs 
Here's what you need to do: 
1. 
Return a completed instructor application to RecSports by April 9. 

2. 
Set up an interview with Jennie Phillips, Fitness Coordinator. 

3. 
Cfill 1-5965 with any questions. 


$tbola 
;!ffilusicorum 
9:30 p.m. Wed., Apr. 7, 1999 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Free and open to the public. 
¦ SOFTBALL 
Notre Dame looks to continue win streak 
BY MATT OLIVA 
Sports Wrirer 
The Irish softball team will play six games in tlrn next five days starting today with a doublclH)adcr against the University of Illinois-Chicago iu Chicago. 
They will host Pittsburgh Saturday in thn Big East opener before traveling to Eastern Michigan l!1r anotlrnr two games Monday. The Irish !19-11l will try to con­tinue their seven game winning streak while getting off to a good start in the 13ig East conference. 
"We need to stop up our play against UIC," said Big East player of the Week Amy Laboe. "They are ranked 15th and we have been coasting the last couplo games. We need to come out strong." 
r'-J--­

Pn.1g~rm t{3tience. 346 o·Shaughnessy .----------• lee hnology. nn<fValues Univer1--.ity of Notre Dame ----------• 
(219) 631-501'1 Notre D,une, IN 46556 
TIDRTY IMPORTANT QUESTIONS ABOUT SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY, AND VALUES 
J. Js there reltlly .sm.:h a lhing us technolo,c:ka1 progress: or j:,t ir just a n'ice name for 
whatever hnppen~'! 
,., How 11..:an we be sure what sciemisrs say is rrue·! ls there a sure wa11 to pr..>ve the sc<itemt:nt::i of sdcnce'! 
3. Does cvmpureril.afinn po~e nny serious mnral problems·? 
-4. ~~:t~~:-~ rhe technologicul developments ot' t1ll)dern sndet:i: :1ffecte<l soci:.1l 
5. How do our definitions of what is sick anJ what is normal reflect social 
conventions"! 
0. Hov.: far has the course of western science been the amassing of f;.1cts.· how far has 1l been a change in ways of viewing the world"! ' 
7. 
Are there right answers in technologicul controversies? 

8. 
Are underdeveloped countries destined to follow the same steps of industrial development that have been fullowed by the U.S. and Western Europe? 

9. 
H.ow are changes in technology retlected in novel~. poems. ant.J the visual ans? 

10. 
d~s~~s~·! patient's conceptions of' iUness differ from doctor's conceptions of 


I 1. Do machines serve us or do we serve machines? 
12. 
How did industrialization change the way ordinary people lived and worked? 

13. 
How are we to respond to the possibility of human cloning'! 

14. 
Whal Sl1ns of ethical problems will ND graduates 'likely encounter as they enter technologicaHy-imensive careers? 

15. 
Are s~ience and Christianity antltheticaJ, unconnected. or co-evolved and co­evolving? 


-EXPLORE THESE QUESTIONS BY BECOMING AN STV CONCENTRATE. FOR INFOR.J.\,1ATION INQUIRE AT 346 O'SHA UGHNESSY OR AT www.nd.edu/-reilly/. 
PPE: The Concentration in Philosophy, Politics, and Economics 
invites applications from undergraduates with special interests in the intersecting areas of political philosophy, political theory, and economic analysis. Every year about twenty highly motivated and talented student are admit­ted to PPE. Check it our to see if it is for you. Many of our students go on to careers in law, public policy, or the academy. If you are looking for 
1. 
an integrated approach to politics and justice, without all the requirements of a second major, and 

2. 
an intellectual community of faculty and students who share your interests, the PPE wants you! 


For more infonnat:ion, contact either Professor David O'Connor, Philosophy Dept., O'Conner.2@nd.edu, or Professor John Roos, Government Dept., Roos. l@nd.edu. For the inside story, you can also contact one of our student advisers. seniors and PPE veterans Johu Schuessler at Schuesslcr. l@nd.edu or Cara Ciuffani at Ciuffa11i. l @nd,edu. 
For an e-mail application. simply send a request to Professor John Roos, Roos. l@nd.edu. You may also pick up a paper application outside Professor Roos's office, Decio 424. The application deadline is noon 011· April 12.. Acceptances will be announce by 5 PM April 12. 
On Saturday, Notre Dam1\ will nHwt Pittsburgh for tlfo tirst time. Pittsburgh's program is in its first year. so the Irish arc unsure of whai to -expect. 
''We will be looking to set a tone for the Big East right away," said Laboe. "It is really important !ha! we clo well because !his year only the top four teams in the co11ference make it to thn tournament. With an at-large bid for thn NCAA's hard to come by, we need to be one of those l'our tcai11s." 
Tho Irish will depend on Miclrnllc Mosr.hel (4-0), Angela Bcssolo (6-4) and Mel Alkire (3-1) at the mound. Sophomore pitcher Jennifer Sharron is still out al'ter injuring her ankle but could be back as early as Saturday. Laboe and Big East Rookie of the Week Jarrah Myers lead a 
r6. How is scientific reseurch funded ir1 differeni l."ounuies'.' Who should decide research prll,rities"! 
17. Arc the mi11ute c:ntilies hypl1the1-ii . t::d by physkisl~ real or are tht!~ si111plv c,;onstruct:-; 1h;u ..save 1hc phenomena.~· or flt the ob~en·ution~·! ­
IX. Does obsen1ation depenc.t on theory"! 
19. 
ls s·cic:111.:-c V~llue-neutrnl'.' 

20. 
Is technology value-Jleu1raJ".' 

21. 
Do non-humans have rights? Whm rights·' 

22. 
How do medical sysrems and healing profes:,.ions differ in various cultures aroumJ the world? 

23. 
Can humun behavior {and humanness) be relluced to biochemical or genetic;,! explanations? 


2--l-. ~~~i~i-1 religious people become upset with 1he findings of Galileo and 
25. Cun there be more than one satisfactory explanation for any given set of observations'! 
26..Is mathematics the Jangu,1ge of science? J.-s ii the only liJnguage of scierrc:e? Is II the language of all science·! ~ 
27. _Do~s t~e vast tloo<l of 1echnical publications. and the aLcompanying special-1:1:attun It tlemands, pose a problem·! 
2X. In_ tec~_i:-iological contfoversies, is ii possible to separa1e moral issues from sc1ent1t1cally soluble technical issues·! 
2<.J, How Lio we solve the 4uestions of distributive justice that arise with new technologies'! 
30. Can a technological society be a democn1tit: society"! 
very strong offonse. Labo<' was pickP,d as co-player of thl: week after she led Notre Dame to a-5-1 rncord whiln hitting .421. 
Against Toledo, Labo<i went 5-for-6 with a game-winning honrnrun. She also scored fivii runs while driving in six and she committed no errors on !i5 putouts during tlm week. 
Myers was eight for 19 at the plate last week, including three doubles and six BBL Shn had at least 01w hit in last week's six games and currm1tly leads the Irish in hitting (.3441, hits 1:11 ), doubles (7), homernns (:-1). HBI (20) and slugging (.5441. 
The Irish will also look for strong contri­
butions at the plate from Kris McCleary, 
shortstop Mel Alkire, lel'tf'ielder Lizzy 
Lemire and catcher Daninllc Klayman. 


Thursday, April I, I 999 The Observer· TODAY page 23 
-----~-­
SLURRED SPEECH DAN SUU.!VAN HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
The Observer 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Community. 
.loin the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name --------------------­
Address -------------------­
City _______ State ____ Zip_______,__ 





flt£!, fQJ)f 
JE:c~L~f@~ 
FOXTROT 
~SuiE's 
~BLUE'S CLUES'.' 
~LUES''.' 

81£A°™E, ··81.uE'S 
..8L1Jf'S 
!<AT1E. 
I

CLU!S':' 

··e,.ul'S 
CLUES~• ··eu,E'S 
a.uf5~' 

··ewn 
CluES~• 
I 

~ 
DILBERT 
C

W/!\LL"( 1 I'VE BE\:.N u CALLING 'YOU FOR. TWO HOUR~! WH'< t';:, TH~T DON'T '1'0U AN5W£R A TRICK 
YOUR ?HONE? Q\JE:iHON? 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 35 Quick 61 Cloth fold 36 Persisted 62 Technique
1 Belle of the old 37 Ax to gnnd 
63 Timeline 38 Spanish folk West divisions6 Jackpot song 64 Mongolian tents 10 M1ch1gan 

39Onem the 

college 
minority 1 4 Some are super 42 Some social 
DOWN 

15 One-named outings? 
des,gner 44 Three trmes: 1 1960's civil 16 Pushes ott Prefix rights org. 11 Betray? 45 Places for 2 Foe for El 
knickknacks Cordobes

19 Irish novelist O'Brien 
47 "Little Orphan 3 Swear Annie"

20 Tt1ey have black 4 Barely speak 
henchman 

eyes 5 Turn forward or 
50 How not to run a

21 Study back.say
business 

23 Head (for) 6 Cyrus the Great. 
55 Kong e.g.

26 Peer Gynt's 56 Fakes. 1n 
mother 7 Metal precioso 
basketball? 29 Amazed looks? 59 Artist Nolde a Nail-biting events: Abbr.
33 Places where it's 60 Some sunny . needlework 
9 Land famous for its lyric poets 10 Secretive figure? 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 11 Big deposit 12 Item often left at apartment doors 13"Byyesterday!" 1 B Bring by the truckload 
24 Hosp. readout 25 Arc. Ark. 26 "Be-Bop---" 
(Gene Vincent hit) 21 Overseas legislature 


O 
~~c:.:.:.,-2a Old coin? B O M 8 "'-H'+-'-l+:-=-i-=-+!-­
0 R E O I N F U N i-=N'-et-1-.'.....l 30 "Roots" role 
L E N T S T O p S 31 Patriarch ~~~__, 32 Brand 

33 Neighbor of Sudan 34 Country parties 37 Ledger column 39 U.N.'s Hammarskjold 40 Suffix with Gotham 41 Woolen covers 43 Spot 46 Maudlin 47 1954 sci-Ii film 48 Our genus 
BILL AMEND 
"&IJJE's CLUES':• ''BLUE'S CLO!S''.1 "BLUE'S CLUES"f "BLUl'5 CLUES':' "'BI.IJE'S ClvES~• 
I 
s 
SCOTT ADAMS 

WA.Ll~, llNL£.;iS 
HOLD ON. 

'<OU'RE 
I'O e£T1£..R 

IN A 
GET Tl-\!$. 

l'-'\E.£.T1NG,... 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95e per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the fast 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Kath,1rine llepbum, Patti l'age, Bonnie Raitt, Courtnev Thomc-Smilh 
Happy Birthday: Your sen,itivc and aff,•ctionate nature will get you what you want this year. Let your true feelings be known and vou won't have to worry about anything else. It's hme to rid yourself of the individ· u.ils who have been depending on ynu to do cvc7.thing for them. Look alter yoursel , go aiter your own goals and you'll reap th<' rewards you've bc<>n searching for. Your num­bers: 3, 11, 20, 29, 38, 47 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): lf you allow family lo annoy you, confronta­tions will be devastating. Cool your jets before you say something you will regret later. Don't overspend on items for your home. 00 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Visits to friends or relatives will pay off if you are receptive to their knowledge­able advice. Don't overspend on unnecessary h.ixury items to imrress others. Confusion will prevail i you take on too much. 0000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will be prone to taking on too much. Take a good look at the investments you alread\' hold. Don't allow older members of your family to take advantage of your generosity. 000 
CANCER (June 21-Juiy 22): Your 
need to be in love may fool you when 
it comes to a meaningful relationship. 
Be cautious of one-sided romantic 
attractions. Don· t overreact to your 
partner's attitude. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22); Visit 
friends or relatives who have been ill. 
Others may try to add to your rcspon· 
sibilitics. Give them advice, but insist 
that they do the work themselves. 

The Observer is currently seek-­ing ad designers. Knowledge of Quark or Adobe Illustrator preferred. Earn $7 .50 per hour. Call Ken at 4--2067 if interested. 
Don't be extravagant when it comes 
to entcrtaininc-nL 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22); Avoid g('tting involved with partners who arc already committed to someone l'lse. Dccc·ption at social functions may cause confusion. One-sided infatuations arc c•vidcnt. 0000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Sit back and relax today. If someone tries to entice you into a get-rich-quick :scheme, you'd be wise to pass. Do not make drastic changes with regards to investments. 00 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Get 

together with peers. Discuss your intentions and directions. Travel for pleasure, visit old friends or relatives. Take care of children's n<'l'ds. Self-im" proVL'menl projects will be successful 00000 
SAGl'ITARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Overindulgence will result if you are ieeling sorry for youl'S<'l!. Lovers may be less than fair when it comes lo money matters. Don't say anything that can be held against you. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 

Don't take too much for granted or 
make promises you can't keep. Your 
domestic and professional respon­
sibilities may interfere with one 
another. 000 
AQUARIUS Uan. 20-Feb. 18): Get 

organized and you will find yourself 
in a much better position. Think twice 
before you take action. Minor heal th 
problems due to a lac!< of rest will 
prevad.000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You wilt be fortunate today but you must­n't let others take advantage of what you have. Overspending on entertau,­ment and any overindulgent tenden­cies will set you back. 00000 
-
49 "Idylls of the King" lady 
51 Humdinger 
52 "The Leaves of Life keep falling one by one" poet 
53 Restaurant bar? 54 They're not baby boomers 57 Former pol. entity 58 Major record label 







S1111111·1b1 Streak 
¦ Freshman Andrew Laflin and the Irish look to break their three-match losing streak at Purdue on Monday. 
p. 19





PORTS 
THE 
BSERVER 
¦ WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Irish come out strong against Fighting Illini 
-

Michelle Dasso won in straight sets, helping the 13th-ranked lr_ish if!Jproved to_ 13-6 with a win over the Fighting Illini Wednesday. The victory is the team's 16th consecutive win over a Midwest opponent. 
¦ BASEBALL 
Doubleheader begins crucial month 
By ANTHONY BIANCO April with one of their best-ever Huskies. Even then. his return is Associate Sports Editor records under Mainieri at 16-7. only slated as probable. The 1996 season topped this Wagner. the Irish career home 
Starting with today's double­year's pre-April mark by one win run leader with 43 round-trip­header against Providence, this (17 -7). An 18-7 mark that year pers, has. been a constant threat month will be crucial for the helped the Irish to their only in the heart of Notre Dame's Irish baseball team as they play NCAA tournament appearance lineup. 20 of their 22 scheduled games under Mainieri. Along with freshman third in April. This year's mark comes during baseman Andrew Bushey (.313 
In the past, April has been one a pre-April stretch in which the AVG, 1 HR, 3 RBI) out with a of the best months of baseball for knee injury, the Irish could have Notre Dame and head coach easily entered April playing the Paul Mainieri, who have posted a fool.


'THEY'RE REALLY­
.796 record for the month in the Luckily for the squad, a num­

PUTTING IN HIGH
past four seasons. ber of players have stepped up in

... 
This season, the Friars and OUTPUT AND USING IT TO the past weeks. Brant Ust has Connecticut will be the first taken sole possession of center


WIN CLOSE GAMF.S.'
teams tn test the Irish in April stage since Wagner's injury. with doubleheaders today and He has belted 13 home runs so Saturday, respectively. far and trails Wagner for the
JEFF WAGNER 
Having the majority of games career record by just one. Alec
Co-CAPTAIN
slated for home play during the Porzel has also welded a hot bat month has certainly helped the with six HBl and 10 runs in the record, but Mainieri sees anoth­past 10 games. Freshman Paul er benefit. Irish won 12 of its last 13 with O'Toole has taken on thfl back­
"Looking at the history of the only two games at Frank Eck stop role vacated by the injured program at Notre Dame, the Stadium. Wabrner to lead the team in dou­month of April has been very The Irish have accomplished bles and stands second in runs. good for us," he said. "We've had that feat with a number of key "It's really awesome," Wagner a lol of positive things go our injuries to Lhe lineup. Co-captain said of his team's run production way. I don't think it's a coinci­Jeff Wagner has been out since in recent games. "They're really dence that we've played well as the beginning of March with a putting in high output and using a result." foot injury and wi11 not return 
see BASEBALL/ page 19
For starters. the Irish enter before Saturday's set against the By WES JACOBS Sporn Writer 
Jennifer Hall set a rncord for singles wins, picking up her 108th win with the Irish, in l\otre Danrn's 7-2 victory Wednesday over the Fighting Illini. 
The 13th-ranked Irish won four of six singlos matclrns and dropped _just seven games in sweeping the dou­bles. 
"This is something that I'll look back on later, and bn very happy with. but f'or now, I'm just happy that wo'ro winning rnatclrns," said llall. who broko Mary Colligan 's l 3-vear-ol d r.ecord. w h k h was· sot in hnr 1982-8(, Irish career. "WP playpd W(•ll today, espf'cially in doubles .. 
Fres.hman Lindsey l;nwn and junior Kelly Zalinski clinched lhe match for tlrn Irish with thnir 8-1 win over J\llison Gottlieb and Natalia Manasuva at No. :) doubles. 
Notre Danrn improved to 13-6 with its 16th consPru­live win over a MidW(\Sl region opponlrnt. Illinois kll to 6-CJ with tlw loss. 
Becky Varnum, MirhPllti Dasso and llall gavH the Irish a quick 3-0 lnad in the matrh with straight-set singles wins. 
The 56th-ranked Varnum 
beat Carla H.osenburg 6-3. 6­
2 at No. 4 singles followml by 
lh(i eighth-ranked Dasso's 6­
2, 6-3 win over Simone Kung 
at No. 1 singles. Hall won hor 
record-setting ri1atch at No. 2 singles as sho -!Jeal Stacy Sr:hapiro (i-4, 6-4. 
Illinois didn't get its f'irst point until M<~gan Wise b!'at Kelly Zalinski 7-<i (7-:)l, (1-2 al No. 5 singles. 
Irish f'n•shman GrPen thnn rallied to bPat Natalia Manasova 1-(,, (1-,4 <i-:1 at No. 6 singks as Notre DamP Ind 4-1. Brooke FPrney kPpt Illinois alivr~ with a LIHP<'­hour win at No. :1 singlPs ov(1r Marisa VPlasro 7-6. (10-8). 4­f>, 7-6, (7-4) aftor Velasco served for tlw rnatch al both S-4 and (i-:i in ti](' third SP! 
Needing on<• doublr•s µoint to clinch liH• match. tlw Irish hlnw 1!11• Illini away in a dou­blPs swP('P-
Af"LPr CrPPII and /.alinski won 8-1, thP Pighth-h1nkPd Dasso-llall tandPm lwat 44th­
rankPcl  1.-Prnny  and  
Rosenberg 8-l at No.  I dou­ 
bles.  

Varnum and VP!asro closnd out tlw match by winning l'ivP straight ganws for an 8-4 win ovnr Kung and Schapiro at No. 2 doublns. 
"I was rPally happy with mtr doublPs. ('SJJP<·.ially al'l!\I" this WPPk:•11CI. 
"WP didn't play all that wPII again s l K (' 111 u ck y and TennPssne, so WP 0 rn happy with today," said llall. 
Singlns matrhns WPl"l' played outdoors at tlw Courtney Tennis CenlPr, while doubles was movPd insicln to thn Erk TPnnis 
see TENNIS/ page 21 


¦ MEN'S LACROSSE 

Notre Dame prepares to head to Hofstra 
Ryl\,[Jl(J1CONNOLLY season loss to Penn State ­+AsiodattiSpom Editor a team the Irish thought they could beat -Notre Dame 
The men's. lacrosse team has bounced back to win ,.}Wifl#~yel toHempsted, N.Y., four of its last five games ._.. this weekend to take on the and has moved into fir.st 
.~lyin~,DlitcBmenof Hofstra. place in the Great Western 'q;;vff~efJt;ish • go into the game Lacrosse League with a 3-0 'riding a two-game winning league record. 
streak/afterdefeatipg.Hobart Contending 15th-ranked Ka.nd R11tler tJ;iis.•week. Tw<J Hofstra, the No. 13 Irish will ' weeks ago, the Irish gave No. be facing their second .•. -·1 .Loy9l3aH thf!Y .could han­straight ranked opponent ·-<.He.befo::reJaUi.Jlg -10,8. and fourth ranked opponent -"We feel pretty ccmfident on the year. "dght now," attackman Tom The Irish are 1-2 on the rgl.atJJ.l.~aid.,,"w_e.·~a.<Ja good year agl:linst ranked oppo­
rtµl <1gainst the top team in nents. 
the e6untry, so we feel that Notre Dame and Hofstra ~ }Ve q~pl11yNtjth anyone." .ar.~·familiar opponents, hav­., ·._·.Hofstra has strung togethe.r ing faced one another five .. fi~'e straight wins after start­times in the 1990s. The ;· pig. thti se~$Ol} 0-2;"'1ith loss• Flying Dutchmen managed to .·.• es to> ranked opponents defeat the Irish in 1991, but , Loyola and Delaware. Like Notre Dame has won to past 
•the'Jrish;ithe Flying four games to lead the series . Dutcllmen is a young team 4-1, 
that has improved every . Preseason AH-American . W'~~k; •.. i • . ·.· .···.·.· .... 
Aft'Jr a·· disappointing early see LACROSSE/ page 22 
,tj) at Purdue, at Hofstra, 
M?

••,;;;_""':,er-' Monday, 2 p.m. Saturday, I :30 p.m. Sofrball vs. Adrian College, 



SPORTS 
ATA 

Raseball Friday, 11 a.m.
at Miami, 
wp
vs. Providence (DH), Friday, 7 p.m. 
Today, noon
GLANCE 



