Double Trouble 
Jen Grubb named player of the week 
Scene reviews the new Ashley Judd and 
Notre Dame women's soccer defender Jen Grubb 

Thursday
Tommy Lee Jones movie, Double Jeopardy, 
was named Big East player ofthe week for 
among other newly released movies. 
scoring two goals in last week's victories. 
SEPTEMBER 30, 
Scene . page 12-13 
Sports . page 19 
1999 
THE 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIII NO. 27 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
,.Little did I know then that this darkness that surrounded me would surround me for six years." 
Zev Kedem 



Kedem shares story of Holocaust with all ages 
By ERICA THESING A»llci,m· N,•w, Ed1tm· 
l11 th1• middlo ol' a standing rnom­only crowd in. t.lrn IIPsburgh Library ,\uditorium Wcd1wsday night, a six­war-old IJlond bov stood on his vinvl ;-hair a11d rais1•d h0is hand. " 
"Whal did tlw gas in tlw chamlwrs do"" 
I.Pv KPdf'm. lloloraus1 survivor and guPst lP('(un•r, 11odd(•d to the boy. l-.:t>d1•111 lht>II tur11Pd to tlw audiencn 
family abandoned a vacation and lwaclnd to KBdnm 's grandpare.nt's honrn in Krakow. 
"It was dark and, as a five-year-old, I was fairly afraid." Kedom said. "Little did I know then that this dark­1wss that s·urroundcd me would sur­rnund me !'or six years." 
Within a year. Kedem's family was living in a Krakow ghetto with 30,000 other Jews. Barbed wire surrounded tlrnir world. In the spring of' 1943, the final dnportation of Jews from Krakow began. Kedem. his older sis-
and <'XplainPd Lhal !il' was ,rn· old1•r than lht• t· h iI d w Im n (;1\rma11 troops i11v11dPd his 11al.iv1• Poland d11cud1•s ago. 
Tlwn patiPntly and ho1wslly, as lw had !'or mor11 than an hour, Kt•dPm told an o tlw r sto r v about growing up in a concen­lrntion camp. 
"fl was a very panicky situation ... As an eight-year-old, I understood very well that unless I was silent, we would be killed. There were no illusions." 
Zev Kedem Holocaust survivor 
ter and their grandwmmts hid in a padlocked pigeon coup as Germans inspect­ed the aban­doned ghetto. 
"It was a very panicky situa­tion.fl he said. "As an eight­year-old, I understood very well that unless I was silent, we would be killed. There were no 
"I don't rnmemlwr much about it bPcausP I was lucky enough to miss !tlrn gas chamber!," Kedcm1 told the boy. !111 Pxplained that the chamber was about hall' tlrn size of the audito­rium anrl resemlllHd a shownr. Tho Nazis tlrop1wd pellnls into the room that prodtH:ed gas. BncausP tlrnre was no air. tlw pPoplt1 passed away, K11de111 said. 
Knc!Pm was five years old when his motlwr told the family that German troops had readied their country. The 
illusions." 
German officers did not find Kedem that day. llis mother, who was work­ing in a nearby concentration camp, arranged for Kedem to be smuggled into tho camp with a load of furniture from the ghetto. Kedem was nine then. and camp laws allowed no one under 13. So he hid among the older boys, working in a brush factory were he sat on a box at the worktable to appear taller than he was. 
see HOLOCAUST/page 4 ­

EDEN ESSEX/The Observer Holocaust survivor Zev Kedem tells of the horrors of the Nazi concentration camps to a generationally diverse audience during his lecture Wednesday. 
Cordaro criticizes militarism, ND contradictions, ROTC 
Activist lectures about peace demonstrations, jail time and challenges for ND students 
By MATT BUNDA 
News Writer 
While Sl:nrws of children playing with miniaturn M-16s, climbing around a military helicopter's machinn guns and gawking at a B-52 bomber flashed across a screen, Father Frank Cordaro spoke to a small crowd in the Centnr !'or Social Concerns Wednesday. 
Cordaro, invilod to campus Ly Pax Chrisli, preached a doctrine ol' pnacn and recounted how civil disobedience during pacifist dcmonstrutions landed him in jail for three of the last 20 yf1ars. 
On May 17, I998, Cordaro and four other activists attm1ded an air show at Amlrnws Air Force Hasp near Washington, ll.C .. to deface and attempt to disarm a nuclear warhead. 
Calling tlrnms(llves "Gods of Metal Plowshares," Lhc activists pourt>d human blood on the plane in protest. Tlw group also hamn11u·ed the bomber's undercarriage, knocking the bomb bay area 30 times, Cordaro said as 
see PACIFIST/page 4 


Pacifist stresses the importance ofnon-violence in Catholicism in exclusive interview 
By MATT BUNDA 
News Writer 
Father Frank Cordaro sees Notre Dame in a very pre­
carious position as a Catholic institution. 
The University makes a contradictory statement about 
the morality of violence and war, Cordaro said in an inter­
view with The Observer. He added that Notre Dame fails 
to recognize the importance oJ pacifist theology and he 
called for the University to "kick the ROTC off campus, 
dismantle the monuments of war and go back to the basic 
spiritual rooti, of the university." 
Cordaro said Notre Dame is full of militaristic symbols. 
The lfaiversity makes its most contradictory statement 
through its most prominent and important symbol, the 
Basilica of' the Sacred Heart, he said. 
"AL the heart of a Catholic university is the Basilica, and at the heart of the Basilica is the altar, one of the most important symbols of the church, where the sacrifice of · the Eucharist is made," he said. "Beneath tlie altar lie the 
see INTERVIEW/page 4 
------,,.~---------------"'-~_...,...___________,,__=----~---------... 
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Thursday, September 30, 1999 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Stress-free 


way to be 
Forget the stress: that's my new philosophy. 
We've gotten past the first couple weeks of school, when everyone's pretty relaxed. Now the projects, presentations, papers and exams 
are piling up.  
It's all r SP.em these days.  to  hear  Kathleen O'Brien 

One friend is too busy 
studying physics to stop and talk for a minute. Another 
Assistant
is too worried about a French paper to go lo the Sports Editor dining hall and eat dinner. Someone else can't make it to dorm Mass on Sunday because she's stress­ing about a. business project. 
Don't get me wrong, I used to worry about grades as much as anyone. And I'm sure I'll be stressed at times this year, but I'm not going to become a basket case over a tough week like I might have a year ago. 
I don't know what changed my attitude. 
Maybe it was spending a semester in Spain, a country where people work to live and don'L live to work, ·like so many people do in the U.S. They know how to relax, whether it's coming home from work for lunch and a siesta or spending a day in "el campo." 
Or maybe it came from spending a summer working with kids who worry about their dads being in jail or not having enough food in the house for dinner. 
Whatever happened, I'm glad because I have more important things to do than spend all my time worrying about 11unking a test or bombing a paper. 
Like tailgating and going to football games ­it's still a blast even if we 're not undefeated. 
Like writing stories for The Observer. 
Like going to a party with my friends and let­ting off steam from a tough week with a game of cups. Who knows? That cute guy from class (or the one you work with or hot dining-hall man) might be there. 
Like running interhall cross country with the girls from McGlinn. ' 
Like sitting around with my roommates, chat­ting about our days, our plans, what I missed when I was abroad, our dreams. 
Like going to a hall formal and dancing the night away with the people I care about. Like sending a letter to my family or my friends who are studying abroad. 
Like watching the season premiere of 90210. 
Like having a Little Sister from South Bend and becoming an important part of her life. Or getting a good night's sleep. After all, what am I going to remember 10 
years from now -the grade I got on my phi­losophy paper or spring break in Florida fresh­man year? 
Do [ really want to tell my grandkids that I missed out on four years of my life because I was too worried about getting a good job when I graduated? 
I'm not telling anyone not to study for a test or not to read that book for senior seminar. There's no need to fail out. Just don't make school the only thing that matters in your life. I'm not going to fail out, and I'm having more fun than I can remember. 
We've got the next 50 years to work hard and worry about house payments and promotions. Enjoy life under the Dome while it lasts. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Josh Bourgeois Mike Vanegas Matthew Smith Graphics Kyle Andrews Kacie Kennedy 
Sports Production 
Molly McVoy Lauren Berrigan 

Viewpoint Lab Tech 
A.J. Boyd Berchmans Daily 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) i, published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Obsc:rvCr is a member of the Associated Press. All ,~production rig hrs arc reserved. 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Thursday  Friday  
Lecture: "War and Peace  Free lunch: with General  
in a Time of Jubilee,"  Mills sales; Flanner Hall  
Michael Baxter; LeMans  student center; noon-1:30  
Hall, Saint Mary's College;  p.m.  
12:10 p.m.  Film: "Election"; Snite  
Lecture: "Competing in a  Museum of Art; 7:30 &  
Digital Economy"; Jordan  9:45 p.m.  
Auditorium, COBA; 4 p.m.  

Saturday Games Night: snacks, sodas, prizes, games, free admission; Haggar Student Union, shuttle service pro­vided; 9 p.m.-midnight. Film: "Election"; Snite Museum of Art; 7:30 & 
9:45 p.m. 
Sunday Recital: Sonija Mihelcic; Little Theatre, Moreau Center, Saint Mary's; 
2:30 p.m. 
Life Choices Program: 
"America the Hude"; Odyssey, Cable Channel 3; 
2:30 p.m. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports


OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Oprah causes stir as teacher at Northwestern 
EVANSTON, Ill. 
Oprah Winfrey speaks to millions of people every day, so she's not shy in front of the ~amera. 
But when it came to teaching Northwestern University's Kellogg Schoo.I of Management students about the "Dynamics of Leadership," Winfrev was a little worried how her first coi1rse would go. 
"I haven't been this nervous since I danced with Tina Turner," Winfrey said Tuesday night, after co-teaching her first class with boyfriend Stedman Graham. 
Winfrey said she's wanted to teach since fourth grade. 
Unable to avoid her usual spotlight even upon entering academia, Winfrey was met with a media cir­cus on her way into the Allen Center two hours before class. 
7 haven't been this nervous since I danced with Tina Turner. ,, 
Oprah Winfrey 
talk show host 
Later, even the students bec:ame part of the media frenzy. 
"Here's comes victi.m No. 2," a Chicago Tribune reporter told her associates as student Roger Bartos was unexpectedly caught in the web of television cameras and chattering journalists before the class began. 
"With Oprah teaching, t4is will be an opportunity to see from a first­hand leader what it takes," said Bartos, who wanted to learn frorp someone "followed by millions of people." 
On their way through the army of nametags, business suits and cam­era lights, Winfrey and Stedman's students ducked beneath their umbrellas and ignored the reporters' calls. They were already learning their first lesson of success: avoiding the media. 
After the three-hour class, Kellogg students said they had learned a great deal and were overjoyed with their new professors. 
"Thr,re was an excellent dynamic between Oprah, Stedman and the students," said student Sean Smith, who added that the pair encouraged a great deal of participation. 
Winfrey agreed that the class went well, but also saw room for improvement, giving herself a B­grade for the lecture. "It's not an A­plus yet," said Winfrey. 

Zimbabwe calls on Harvard prof 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 
Mark Chavunduka, a journalist studying as a Nieman Fellow at Harvard for the year, must return to his native Zimbabwe Wednesday to stand trial and face up to seven years in prison. Chavunduka and his colleague, Ray Choto. were illegally arrested by the members of the Zimbabwean military in January after Choto wrote an article for The Zimbabwe Standard about an attempted coup within the Zimbabwe National Army to overthrow the government. Chavunduka is the editor of the paper. After their arrest, the two say they were tortured by members of the military who applied electric shocks to all parts of their bodies and beaten with batons and fists. Their heads were wrapped in plastic bags and then put in water until they began suffocating. Chavunduka was released after six days in captivity, and went to England for medical treatment. Earlier this year, he was chosen to be one of the 24 Nieman Fellows ­mid-career journalists from across the world who study at Harvard for a year -and left Zimbabwe on the condition that he return for trial. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
S Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather ® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

Friday Saturday Sunday Monday
',:,hr.:J'"'"•·-.,;••1 \...__,,( 

~,,rS\Ac::1&~(f~u
l.\'"'~'~ ......... +,:/,/ -:::..~::. . 
Showers T·storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Associeted Pf'86s Graph,cs~I 

Women dies, donates life savings 
HATTIESBURG, Miss. 
Quiet, unassuming, kind and unpretentious are some of the ways president emeritus Aubrey Lucas described famed washerwoman Oseola McCarty who died Sunday night from canoer. "She taught us the blessedness of giving," Lucas said. "We will miss her, but we are thankful we had the opportunity to know her." McCarty donated her $150,000 life savings to establish scholarships for U. Southern Mississippi stu­dents. Nine students have been awarded scholarships. "When I needed her the most, she sort of appeared out of nowhere," said Stephanie Bullock, first recipient of the Oseola McCarty Scholarship. "I was really worried about how we were going to pay for college. I didn't get any financial aid." Bullock said she found out about McCarty's donation after reading the newspaper one Sunday. "I had no idea I would be considered for a scholarship," she said. "I was just amazed she saved all that money washing clothes." Bullock and her fam­ily spent Christmas, Thanksgiving and birthdays with McCarty. "We sort of adopted her as a grandmother, because she had no kids," Bullock said. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather" forecast for noon, Thursday, Sept. 30. Bands separate high temperature zones for the day. 

C 1899 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATfONARY i'rffltJff: 
, . [ill. .,."' (It~
® © D . mJ CJ E:B V ~ 
High Low s.-.oweu Rain T-,torms FlurriH Snow Ice sunny Pl. Cloudy CIGUdy 
VIII Alsocilltod Pres 
Aurora  69  39  Dallas  81  47  Philadelphia  70  66  
Baltimore  70  65  Fredonia  58  57  Sacramento  91  56  
Boston  72  66  Houston  78  57  St. Louis  76  44  
Buffalo  57  56  Las Vegas  92  56  Tampa  86  74  
Chicago  68  41  New York  73  69  Wash DC  70  69  



Thursday, September 30, 1999 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 3 
Russia's suspicions of Islamic rebels cause bombing 
NOTRE DAMEATHLETICS WEEKEND 
VOLLEYBALL MEN'S SOCCER 
Fri. Oct. 1 v. West Virginia 8pm Sat.. Oct. 2 v. Syracus,e 7:30pm Sun. Oct. 3 Pittsburgh 2pm 
HOCKEY 
WOMEN'S SOCCER Fri. Oct. 1 v. Wilfrid Laurier 7pm Fri. Oct. 1 v. Georgetown 7:30pm MEN'S TENNIS Sun. Oct. 3 v. Villanova 1pm Fri. Oct. 1 v. Oklahoma 7:30pm 

By MARIBEL MOREY 
Nt'ws \X/riter 
Hussia's hattNPd political structure l'w:cs yd another dmllmigc in the cur­rent viohn1c11 rnsulting from the brnak­away rPpublic of Chnclmya. 
"Tlm bombings in Moscow um! dse­whcrc in Hussill lmvP furllrnr destabi­lized an alrnady fragile political sys­tem," said Martha Merrill, assistant govPrimwnl proli•ssor. "With dections JH'nding for LhP parliament and the prnsid1111l, tlrnrn is gr<~at conct1rn over wlrnthor this l!)1-rorism will intPrforn with democratic processes." 
Moscow contintws bombing Clwrlrnya, a ropublic or Russia that sought i111.lepm1dencP five yoars ago. For the past six days. Hussian air­planes liavo conlimwd targeting the Chndwn capital Grozny in retaliation for recnnl hirrorist bombings in l\loscow. Chnclwn-hilcked rcbels arc hlamcd bv Hussian lm1d11rs for bomb­ings that 'killed rwurly 300 people in Hussia in the past month. 
"We do not know who is bPl1ind the bombs." Merritt said. "The mayor of Moscow and othnr politicians have been quick to say that il is Chm:hm1 terrorists, and Hussia has l'ound it politically convcni1rnt tn usn I.his out­pouring of anger against the Chechens to launch another wave of bombings in that brnak-away region." 
/\nalysts also spnculated that the bombings could have bmm orchnstrat­ed _hy terrrorists from Dagestan, a neighboring rngion of Chechnya, wlrnre Hussia is currnntly fighting rnbnls. 
Th,ire am other possible motivations t'or th1! bombings. "Sonrn political obs,irvers even think that it is f'omentml by supporters of 
/!,itJi1t~ 
with 
Fibrumyalgia iJ <I rr,:a,f,fni~t•d medical co11di1i1m ind1uli11,,:, symptom,t of widespre"d pafo. fatigue, and .rletp tfis.r1tpti,n1 
Understanding, Treatment, Daily Living 
Program presented hy: 
Julian Ungar. M.D.. Neurologist. Lifeline Medical Center 
ScoH Howland. Director. UNO Office for Students with Di.,ahililies 
Wendy Sellk. Ph.D .. Staff Psychologist, UNO Univcrs1tv Counseline Center A panel <liscllssion will foUow led by students with ribromv.aleia'" Family and f"riend.r. au encouragt'd to attenti! • ~ 
Monday October 4, 1999 7:00 -8:00 p.m. Hesburgh Library Lounge 
Sponsors Nolre Dume. Ur11,T:rsity Counseling Center. Un1vcr.-.ity Health Cen1cr . .ind Ofl'lrc for Stutk-nrs Wtth D1~abili1ics. Saini ~hry's College Office of C\1unscting 
;rnd Career Dcv1..~Jo11rnl'nl ;.rnd Collc!!e Heallh Scnicc 
Tension escalafes··tn--the Ca 
Thousands of people hii,e fled since Russian ;t;~ the Chechen capital 9f' Grozny and nearby regions The strikes are ~m'~d against Chechyna-based I 
,·:-.....,
; . Border crossings .r-··..! Russian commanders h 
' 
STAVROPOL L...... ,·-· -. 
KRAV Ja
RUSSIA 
,,..)·-... O·•. 
· ·••, r ;..,, 9 
L____J ..... ·····~.-.'.,......) . 
.....~•-...Cl 
~--_..--....___I
.\ ' :-•·"· 
"', Mozdok L._j 
CHECHNYA
/ r-r·-1. /.. 
,../
), -Grozny
•~·, INGU$HETIA Gudermes \
0 . . . 
Argun 
) . •
~ladikavkaz ,, Urus Marian Shali r-e NORTH lshkhoi-Yurt 
OSSEf!A 
.::,1·-.. ...·,.••,··' 

.....P 
__....-..f 
,,.l 
President [Boris] Yeltsin, whose politi­cal fortunes were declining rapidly as elections approach -he is ineligible for another term -and charges of corruption swirl around his adminis­tration," Merritt said. 
From 1994 to 1996, Chechnya sought independence from Russia. Moscow unsuccessfully invaded, resulting in the peace treaty which granted Chechnya a rererendum for 2002. ­
With this loss. "Russia fears that sep­aratism fueled by militant [slamic fun-
and eopi11~ 
:otlikh 
SO miles 
e:s 
50km 
AP/Wm. J. Castello 
damentalism will spread," Merritt said. 
The treatv is also viewed as Russia's way to buy· more time; Russia still has not acknowledged this region's inde­pendence. 
Chechnya's advantage in this conflict is the guerrilla nature of Chechen war­fare and the soldiers who want and need to fight, according to Merritt. 
"Russia is absolutely not ready for any big military actions in Chechnya," said Pavel Felgenhauer. a military expert with the Segodnya newspaper. "The present campaign is all bluff." 
Bombs kill civilians, not rebels, in Chechnya 
Associated Press 
SLEPTSOVSK/\Y/\ 
Despite Hussian claims that a week of' airstrikes 011 breakaway Chechnya are aimed at routing Islamic rebels, refugees fleeing the bombing Wednesday said that mainly civilians are being hit. 
Some 61,000 Chechens hawi fled the bomb­ing for the neighboring republic of lngushct.ia and thousands more were headed for other regions, prompting fears of a humanitarian crisis. 
Wednesday's airstrikes hit communications centers, ammunition depots and oil and industrial facilities, the Russian Defense Ministry said . 
It was the sevcnl.h day of strikes on the capital Grozny and its outskirts; in all, Hussia has launched 300 air sorties against Chechnya since Sept. 20, Air Force Commander-in-Chief Colonel General Anatoly Kornukov was quoted a·s saying by the lnterfax news agency Wednesday. 
Chechen officials claimed 10 people were killed Wednesday. The Russian Defense Ministry said all the casualties were mili­tants. 
But refugees at a camp in Sleptsovskaya, just inside lngushetia from Chechnya, said the Russian bombing of Grozny and sur­rounding villages has been indiscriminate. 
"Russians are bombing peaceful villages, there were no rebels in my village," said Ramazam Akhiyev, 45, from Samashki. 
"At first, Russian planes bombed just cer­tain targets, but now they are bombing living quarters," said Aslanbek Shamkhanov, 39, from Grozny. "Half of Grozny has fled." 
Moscow says the strikes are aimed at Chechnya-based Islamic rebels who invaded the neighboring republic of Dagestan in August and September. 
The militants have also been blamed for a series of apartment explosions in Hussia that killed some 300 people in recent weeks. 
The raids have fueled fears that Moscow is planning a massive ground operation in Chechnya, which could mean a repeat of the disastrous 1994-6 war when Russian forces were defeated by Chechen separatists. 
Prime Minister Vladimir Putin on Wednesday promised that Russia would "never allow a repetition of what happened in Chechnya in 1994," but did not rule out sending ground troops to the mountainous republic; 
"I have never said there will not be a ground operation." he said. 
The fnterfax and IT AR-Tass news agencies on Wednesday both cited military sources as saying a ground operation could begin soon. 
Putin meanwhile gave little hope of reach­ing a negotiated end to the fighting in the near future. 
"The beginning of such a dialogue is possi­ble only when concrete results can be expected," he said, according to lnterfax. "Beginning useless negotiations now will only give terrorists breathing time and a chance to regroup." 
As the stream of refugees deepened, offi­cials worried about looming humanitarian problems. 
--------·---..-------------~-..---=~----~------------------------. 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 30, 1999 
Interview 
continued from page 1 
relics of Saint Marcellus, a third century Roman centurion who refused to serve in the Homan army aft11r converting to Christianity. Other relics of simi­lar martyrs lie underneath the altar as well." 
Cordaro said Notre Dame's focus should be directed toward the peaceful and selfless exam­ple of Saint Marcellus rather than its current militaristic focus. 
He added that Notre Dame should refuse government fund­ing and give less respect and honor to military and political figures. 
Despite these observations. Cordaro did not limit his mes­sage to the University. 
''The challenge of the new mil­lennium, as Martin Luther King Jr. puts it, is non-violence or non-existence," Cordaro said. "We need to rediscover the non­violent characteristic of Christianity." 
He called this a project lo save 
Pacifist 
continued from page I 
he showed a slide show of the protest, for which he served six months in jail last year. 
The demonstration honored civil disobedience acts of the Catonsville Nine. a group head­ed by Catholic activists Daniel and Philip Berrigan, who burned military draft files with homemade napalm 30 years earlier. 
Cordaro compared ancient worship of idols and hand-made tools to modern-day reverence of weapons of mass destruction. 
"An air show is a carnival with lawn chairs and picnics and beer and sandwiches," Cordaro said. "School buses cart children to the show to pay adoration to these weapons." 
According to Cordaro. one­half of those who attend air shows are children, who thus are "cultured in the culture of violence." 
the planet from "the violent and piggish way in which we behave." 
Cordaro outlined the meta­morphosis of Catholic theology on war and peace and its impact on Notre Dame. The 1970s and 1980s saw a shift of theological viewpoints from one of Thomas Aquinas' just war theory to a new focus on peace, Cordaro said. 
"This century is the most war­torn, bloody century this world has ever known," ho said. "This is a bloody, ugly century in which more people were killed in wars than any other century and all other centuries com­bined." 
Cordaro also discussed the work of Dorothy Day and the Catholic Worker movement. He explained the role of the 1983 bishops' pastoral on peace and war, in which Catholic theology on war and peace was split into two opposite viewpoints: just war and pacifist positions. 
Founder of a Catholic Worker movement in Des Moines, Cordaro has served six stints in jail for civil disobedience for pacifist demonstration. 
Cordaro explained the theolo­gy of the plowshares group with a quote from Isaiah: "Some day nations will beat their swords into plowshares, taking imple­ments of destruction and using them to create and sow, and study war no more." 
lie said this prophetic passage is an imperative call for the end of violence. He also said the prophecy was fulfilled by Jesus. 
"We want to put into practice what we were supposed lo all along -beating our swords into plowshares," Cordaro said. 
Cordaro called for the Catholic Church to promote and support pacifist and anti-violence theolo­gy more actively. A Theology of peace is pronounced by nearly every Catholic theologian writ­ing today, Cordaro added. 
He also called for a change in the atmosphere of the tlniversity itself. He said the Clark War Memorial, Notre Dame's active ROTC membership and govern­ment research and funding on campus are vehicles of a vio­lence-obsessed culture. 
Contest rewards camera designs 
By JESSICA DAUES News Writer 
Earlier this month, Notre Dame was chosen as one of 13 prestigious universities by Samsung Opto-Electronics America, Inc., to participate in the second Samsung "Prometheus Award For Creativity in Design Contest." 
Students have from Oct. 1 to Jan. 1 to design a functioning camera that is both practical and appealing. 
"Right now we are in the brainstorming stage," partici­pant Jess Coseo said. 
The students, working with their professor, must submit a picture of their product from all sides, one perspective view and a typed product descrip-
Holocaust 
continued from page I 
"I soon became quite ·com­
petitive and made more 
brushes than anyone else," 
Kedem said. "That was my 
only defense -that I was as 
productive as a grown-up ·person." 
Kedem passed through sev­
era I more concentration 
camps and was later rescued 
by Oskar Schindler. He was 
in Schindler's Czechoslovakian 
factory for only one day 
before a German officer 
detected his age. 
The German sent Kedem to 
Auschwitz on Nov. 3, 1944. 
Kedem was certain he would 
die there. 
Unknown to Kcdem and 
Germans in Czechoslovakia 
Adolf Hitler's assistant had 
ordered the destruction of 
the Auschwitz gas chambers 
on Nov. 2. 

tion for _judging. The camera must include a flash, zoom lever, battery and film cham­ber -all parts any other func­tioning camera would contain. 
"What Samsung is looking for is a shape or function that has not been explored yet," associate arts professor Paul Down said. "For example, if the students decide that the camera will be made for athlet­ic purposes, the camera must not only function in extreme clrcumstances, but it must also be designed in a way that shows extreme sports. The camera must function correctly as well as be visually striking. Our students' task will be to find a new way to do it." 
Other participating universi­ties include Purdue University, Brigham Young University, 
Russian troops were advancing and the Germans wanted no evidence of the chambers. 
Kedem and the nine others with him escaped death by one day. 
"Once again we've beaten the culture of death," Kedem said. "I didn't know then why that was. I didn't care." 
Kedem was liberated by American troops in May 1944. He graduated from Oxford University, moved to Israel and began making doc­umentary films. 
He assisted with the mak­ing of "Schindler's List.," but said he could not talk about his own experience of' the Holocaust until the premier of the film. 
"That film had such pro­found power over me ... that I broke my silence," he said. "That changed basically the quality of my own life." 
Kedem said he struggled with his own survival, in light University of California­Northridge and North Carolina State University. 
According to Down, his stu­dents have a very good chance at winning. "Compared to the other schools involved," he said. "we are on a very com­petitive level." 
The first, second and third place winners will receive scholarships of $10,000, $7,500 and $5,000, respective­ly. 
Along with these prizes, the three will also receive a one week trip to South Korea to visit tbe Samsung headquar­ters to meet and work with their d11sign team. 
Winners will be announced at the Photo Marketing Association Show in Las Vegas. Nev., on Feb. 4, 2000. 
ol' the 6.5 million who died in the Ilo.locaust. He began pub­lic speaking to honor their memories. 
Kedem's message was not lost on the blond six-year-old struggling to understand the gas chambers. 
Charles Logue, a South Bend first-grader, attended Kedem's lecture with his mother, Julie Logue. She wants her son to grow ·up with an understanding of the llolocaust. 
"The Holocaust is about when the Jews were cap­tured and they had to work in the concentration camps," Charles said. "It was like a war." 
Kedem's presentation was sponsored by the Student Union Board. 
A portion of proceeds from the event will go to a Holocaust charity honoring survivors and victims in hopes to educate other chil­dren like Charles. 

Irish Country Bed & Breakfast Registry 
"?(/~ ff,O«-'tt, abDaf/4 4we a /daa to. .u:.eu,." 
1690 l Jackson Road South Bend Call: (219) 255-1516 Fax: (219) 257-4193 
Web:www.irishcountry.com 
there's always Starcom. NORTH AMERICA's LEADING MEDIA sERv1cEs coMPANY 1NvnEs you To COME SEE WHAT AN EXCITING CAREER IN MEDIA AND ADVERTISING IS ALL ABOUT. COME REACH FOR THE STARS AT STARCOM'S RECRUITING PRESENTATION. October 4, Rm100 Center for Continuing Education 6:30-8:3opm 
FINO OUT MORE ABOUT LEO BURNETT'S MEDIA DIVISION AT WWW.STARCOMWORLDWIDE.COM 

. 
!
,.;"",! Y"1J?1il.
orld 
I II 

AFP Photo Serbian protesters run from anti-riot policemen after an attempted march of 20,000 to the home of Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic on Wednesday. The incident was the first time police have used force to dispel demonstrators since the start of the protests. 
Police break up protest march 
Thursday, September 30, 1999 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Ex-Gls tell of Korea killings 
IL was a story no 0110 wantod to hear: Early in tlw Koman War, villagors said, American soldinrs machinn-gunrwd hundrnds of helpless civilians undnr a railroad bridge in the South Koman countrvsid<:. Wlwn the families spoke out, S<\<lking n~<lr1•.ss, U1ey nw.l only rejection and d1i11ial. from Lim U.S. military and their own govornment in Seo\11. Now a dozen ex-Gls have spoken. too, and support their story with haunting mnmorins from a "forgotten". war. /\nrnrican volnrans of' Urn Korean \Var say that in latn July 1950, in the conf'lict's first dm;pnratn wonks, U.S. troops killed a large numtwr ol' South Korean rnf'ugoos, many of tlwm wom1111 and children. trapped berrnath a bridgn al a hamlnl called No Gun Hi. In inler­vinws with Thn i\ssociat,•d l'rPss, Hx-Gls speak of I00 or 200 nr "hundrmls" dead. 
Mexico charges three in fireworks blast 
MEXICO CITY 
Thrnn govnrnmnnt officials accusml of aid­ing tlw ill1~gal salo of' lirnworks were charged with c:rimos ranging from neglignnco to homi­cid,1 in ronn1H:lion with a fiery blast that killnd (,1 µnopln in ('.1mtrnl Mnxico, l'edural officials said \V1!d1wsday. Two city business inspectors and a !or.al rr.prcsentativn nf the federal attor­rwy gerwral wern charged in connection wilh tlrn ill!igal saln of lireworks at several area slorns. Assist.ant Allornev General Alfonso Navarrnln told a nows co11i'erenco. They were chargnd within tho last few days. In addition to the charges. fndoral prosecutors announced they had seized two morn tons of gunpowdor and firnworks in t!rn city of Celaya, 120 miles northnasl of Mexico City, bringing the total sPizml Llwre in two days to an astonishing 14 tons. 
Indian government fails to halt Christian attacks 
LONDON 
India's govnrnmonl has failed to act to halt incrnasing violrmcc against Christians and is c!osoly linkml to llindu groups rnsponsihlr. for Lim attacks. a human rights organization allngPd in a rr•1rnrt releas1id Thursday. Priests hav,1 lrnnn kil11•d. nuns havP been raped and Christian ,·hurclws, schools and cAmetAries havn h<wn dostroyed. said the report by the Nm,v York-basod lluman Hights Watch. The rnporf. charges t.hal tlrn government has failed to proseculc people who perpetrate violent crimns basod on religious intolerance ­dnspito existing lngislalion created lo deal wit.h such crimes. "Attacks against Christians. which have incniasod significantly since the llindu nationalist Bharatiya .lanata Party IIndian l'ooplo's l'arty, B.IPI came to µowm· in March l 998. point. lo a disturbing trl'nd of tlrn assorlion of Ilindu nationalism by govern­nwnls in powm· ut the state and central level," 
thn rPport add nd. 
1268.37 -13.83 

10,213.48 
VOLUME LEADERS 
CPMPAWX TTCKliR "> CHN:IQPi 
UtA7.0N.COM INC AMZN +l.1. 58 AT HOHi: CORI' ATJIH +13.20 AJflJllCA ONLINE AOL -0. 57 IJlL~TTE CO a -9.fil a.LOB.AL CROSSING GBLX -1. )0 INTEL CORP IN'l'C ·l. 98 MICRO!IOFT COJlF MSP'T -;2.85 DJ:LL COMPUTl:ll. DSLL -3. OQ CISCO SYSTZMS csco -:Z.29 AVON PRODUCTS AVP -:n.61 
Composite Volume: 1,013,417,8IO 
s CHANGE PRICI 
+U.8750 80. 75 +!5. 0650 43.U -0,6250 109. l5 -l.~600 33.U -o. 3400 25.91 -2. 3100 75.19 -2, 6250 89. 50 -1.)150 ,2. 56 -1.5650 66. 81 -9.1175 :25. 81 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES 
YUGOSLAVIA 
page 5 

Associated Press BELGRADE Police armed with batons and sticks broke up a demonstration of more than 30,000 protesters trying to march to President Slobodan Milosevic's residence Wednesday night. More than 60 people wHe injured, according to opposition leaders. The_ emotional crowd had stormed through Belgrade's downtown boulevards, waving their fists and shouting "Slobo, you betrayed Kosovo," against the backdrop of · the ruined and charred government buildings destroyed during NATO's bombing campaign. 
INDONESIA 
Militias present risk to peacekeepers 
As the protesters reached a second police cordon, three water canons drew up behind the line of officers, appar­ently intimidating the demonstrators, who were threatening to march some two milPs to Milosevic's lush neighbor­hood or Dedinje. 
After a few minutes, police swept into the crowd from the side and beat back the group using batons and sticks, creating panic. 
Of the more than 60 injured, at least four were reported in serious cond.i­tion, according to the opposition Democratic party. Dozens of people were seen lying on the ground, including a woman carrying a child who fell as a policeman struck at her as she tried to flee. 
Several foreign and domestic reporters were beaten and had their cam­eras destroyed. 
Police sources said thref' officers were injured in the clash. 
Up to 15.000 opposition supporters also rallied Wednesdav in Nis and Novi Sad, s·erbia's second and third largest cities. 
Opposition parties have stepped up efforts for democratic changes since Milosevic led the country into its latest, devastating war -the Kosovo crack­down that ended when Milosevic capilulated to NATO bombing. 
president. Cohen also will meet with Indonesian finance officials and repre­sentatives of area human rights organizations. 
A senior U.S. defense official traveling with Cohen told reporters there are indications that pro­Indonesia militias -num­bering between 2,000 and 4,000 -may be preparing to launch guerrilla raids on the Australian-led peace­keeping troops in East Timor. The official, who spoke on condition he not be identified, offered no other details. 
Asked about the potential for militia attacks, Marine Corps Brig. Gen. John G. 
The Alliance for Change, which led Wednesday's rally, has recently begun holding daily protest ral­lies in several Serbian towns. 
"We are testing the regime and the willingness of the police to defend the dictator,"Vladan Batie, an opposition loader, told The Associated Press. 
Opposition leaders par­ticipating in Wednesday's march tried to calm the protesters, most of whom refused to move. Instead they stood at the second cordon and booed Milosevic and the police. 
Immediately afterward. police drove up four armored vehicles and positioned them behind the water cannons. 
Castellaw, commander of the U.S. forces supporting the East Timor operation, told reporters he would "not speculate on that."He added that Australian offi­cials had assured him they are well prepared to defend themselves and the rest of the peacekeeping of1eration. 
Upon his arrival Wednesday night in Jakarta, Cohen said that with the peacekeepers now in East Timar and "with some stability returning therc,"he sees a chance that order can be restored and relations with Indonesia put back on track. 
Associated Press JAKARTA Pro-Indonesia militias may be planning guerrilla raids on the Australian-led international peacekeepers iu devastated East Timor, American officials said Wednesday. Defense Secretary William Cohen said he would raise the matter Thursday in meetings with Indonesian military and government officials and stress that there must be no Indonesian army involvement -or even tacit support -for vio­lence against the peace­keepers. 
Speaking Wednesday at tlrn Royal Australian Air Force headquarters in Darwin, where he met with officials from Australia and New Zealand and greeted several dozen troops, Cohen said there was rea­son for concern about cross-border militia attacks. 
"That's one of the appre­hensions we have,"Cohen said. 
He is scheduled to meet with Gen. Wiranto, the Indonesian military chief, as well as President B.J. Habibie and Megawati Sukarnoputri, the daughter gf Indonesia's founder and the expected next elected 
page6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 30, 1999 
COBA conference focuses on technology 
are people who have been
. Panels and talks 
raised on digital technology,will feature and will have a profoundTapscott, Mazaar impact upon society." said 
Trubac. This will constitutn part 
of the f'ocus in Tapscott's dis­By LAURA SELLINGER cussion with emphasis Oil tlrn News Writer role of computers and the inter­
net in the coming miUennium. 
An "informative and exriting In addition tu the Tapscott event'' is headed for Notre presentation, Mazaar will dis­Dame's Jordan Auditorium this cuss his views on changes in upcoming Thurday and t-:_riday, societv over lhc next ten years. 
Follo,ving the Mazaar discus­according to Edward Trubac. associatf, dean for the college of 
sion, a series of panel presenta­Business Administration. tions led by BJ\C panel mem­
Entitled .. Working and bers will take place from 10:30 Learning in the New a.m. to 12:00 p.m. l\1illcnnium," <iary Gigot thl-l eveut is a 
will focus on
"1his is a once-in-a­
series of dis­global brand­
lifelime opportunity to ing, while
cussions and panel presen­talk about the millennium D i c k tations foa­
Heckmann
and the immediate 
rover
turing two of will 
impact ofcomputers upon 
tl1e world's water as a leading society and higher strategic reo­experts on 
surce and
education." 
trends in Clark Keough technology will discuss and llw ocon­Edward Trubac the communi­
cations sector.
omy. Don associate dean, college of 
Tapscott, At the same
Business Adminstration 
time, Tom Alliance for 
chair of' the 
Quinn will Converging Technologies, will host a disuussion on European speak today at 4 p.m. He is also markets, Reverend Ollie 
the author of seven popular Williams will emphasize domi­books on the application of nant ethical issues and Moira technology to business. Micheal Shanahan will conclude with 
Mazaar, director of the New corporate communication. 
Millennium Project, will host a These acliviles take place in discussion at 8:45 a.m. on conjuction with the college of Friday. Business Administration adviso­Suggested as a topic by the ry council's annual meeting on :Business Advisory Council campus. The council will also [BACI. speakers will discuss take part in the dedication of 
major changes in society with the college's Doermer
new the coming of the new mileni­Family MRA Carner um. Development Center on Friday 
"This is a once-in-a-lifetime at 2:45 p.m. opportunity to talk about the The new facility was under­millennium and the irnm.cdiatc written by a gift from Richard 
impact of computers upon soci­and Mary l.ouise Dot>rmer. ety and higher education," said Linkfld lo placement. Urn center Truhac. is a place where prospectivo l\1ade possible by the O'Brien­employePs and employers can Smi lli Visiting Scholars meet and conduct int.cniews. 
Program. Tapscott's presP.nta­Thr, discussions-by Don tion will Cl)ntcr not only on how Tapscott and 'vfichael Mazaar, the internet is changing the as well as t.he panel presenta­
business world, hllt also how tions and dedication activities the internet alfocts universities aro froe and open to the public and school systems. to aWrnd. 
"Tapscott has labeled people "It is an unusual nweling betwc1m the ages of two and 22 because of' the unique topics as the Nlff generation. These being prnsentc~d and should br, run," said Truhac. 
rr­
1999-2000 Season 
Notre Dame Film.Television, and Theatre Presents 
Hedda Gabler 
by 
Henrik Ibsen
.. 

· Directed by Siiri Scott 
Wednesday, October 6 7:30 p.m. Thursday, October 7 7:30 p.m. Friday, October 8 7:30 p.m. Saturday, October 9 7:30 p.m. Sunday October IO 2:30 p.m. 
Playing at Washington Hall 
Reserved seats $9 Seniors $8 All Students $6 
1,cket> are available a! Lafortune Student Center Ticket Office IL:as:~d=i,_•=call 1.31-8128 
Nava calls for more Latino films 
By HELENA RAYAM 
News Writer 
It's lime for Latino empow­erment in the film industry and American culture, said Latino direr.tor and scrP.en­writcr Gregory Nava. 
Nava, a Hispanic Heritage Month speaker. discnssec.l the importance of family and val­ues for Latinos Wednesday. He said AmPrican society can benefit from these aspects of Latino culture. 
"Evory group that comes to this country movfls from the fringe into the mainstream of American culture," Nava said. 
Nava has inl'luenced the impact of Latinos in the film industry with his Academy Award-nominated movie "El Nortt>." He was also instru­mental in starling Jennifer Lopn's film career by casting her in her first movie, "~i Familia." Lopez a!su starred in Nava's popular film, "Selena," aliout the late Tejana singer. 
"[SPlcna,] in a way, rede­fined beauLy," said Nava, adding that both Selena anrl Lopez arc acceptable role 
· models because they are proud of their beauty. "It all begins with all of you Latinos looking at yourself and saying,"Yes, I'm beauti­ful,'" said Nava. In addition to stressing 
an undying confidence in his tercd you're going to findl.atino pride, he discussed the work. evnrywhere you go," he said. 
scarcity of Latinos in 
It took five vPars to make Ultimately, Nava advis(\d,
Hollywood. 
"El Norte" an·d six years to "Find yourself and find what­
"'[here need to be more 
make "Mi Familia" because of ever it is that you want t.o do."
Latinos in tlrn film business," 
opposition, Nava explained. Nava's most current film is
said Nava. "It's like the chick­Originally, he was also 1998's "Why Do Fools Fall in en and the egg. How are we "Selena" should be a made­Love?" Most rernntly. he soldgoing to get Latino stars if we for-TV moyie. to CBS a pilot script about adon't get the roles?" 
However, the director Latino family, which will air
Although Nava faced much ar.knowledgcd that resistance next year if' CRS accepts it.
resistance with several of his 
and opposition is inevitable in The Office o!' Multicultural
movies, he explained that ho 
any finld. · Student Affairs sponsoredhad to "be stubborn" and have "The stuff' that I encoun-Nava's lecture. 



Thursday, September 30, 1999 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Clinton forgives $5.7 billion in debts from 36 poor nations 

Mix it up with 1200 others from the Class of2000 
TONIGHTand EVERY THURSDAYtor 
QO@@ffilf[b@[ru@)0@ 
$1COVER 
(with college I.D., must be 21)
COLLeGe nlGHT 

many poor countries and poor and World Bank. His remarks Pope John Paul II to Irish rock­
Associated [•re., 
people in poverty," Clinton said. were greeted by applause, and er Bono of the band U2. He said the United States could advocates for the poor said The U.S. write-off mostly
President Clinton pledged 
not in goorl conscience ask Clinton's announcement would would benefit countries in sub­
Wednesday Ln forgive all the 
impoverished nations to choose put pressure on other lenders Saharan African that owe hugedebt owed the Unitnd States by betwP.en making interest pay­to offer 100 percent debt relief. amounts of money but have few:if> of the world's poorest coun­ments on their debt or investing As Asia rebounds from last or inexpensive exports totries, lamenting that nearly 40 in their children·s education. year's financial crisis and the offset their debt payments,million people die of hunger The president announced his United States and many of its Treasury Secretary Lawrenceeach year and 1.3 billion people initiative in a speech to finance allies bask in prosperity, debt Summers said. The relief isstruggle on loss than $1 a day. 
ministers and central bankers relief has gained support in hinged on promises that the
"Simply put. unsustainable 
at the annual meeting of the worlrl capitals. It is a cause money saved on debt payments
rlebt is helping to keep too 
International Monetary Fund with champions ranging from would be well spent alleviating 
. 111 . ': OPEN DATES 
111t~tlt11II N1t=QN11') ~~,, .; ' FRI. thruSUN.,OCT. ht•hd 
~•0~1,/ ~ , / . FR I. lhru SUN,, OCT. 8th• 10th ~ Mi I\,~ 1 -. FRI. lhru SUN,, OCT. 15th• 17th i'W'JI ~ ~~ FRT. thru SUN,, OCT. 2lnd •24th 
THEllf•£ NOW ii FIFTH #'l,AO Olf6R NILU, MICH/01,N ... , . . 
It' s a w h a Ia new terrortary B•••u•• :irou --"~-· 
~ 0 1t g F•at=:vi=g 
NJt~s HAUNT~D Hous~ 1999 
and 
N,~~T.~P...R~ ,...,,~~~ 
A H'.DO/P .Oi!'JY a'f/.7/tf.Y.1.5'./0.0 .l/1 .H&!./.Ott:9a' .hz:>l!Sc'S' 
Plug WWW,HAijtfr~P-0.R.G 
~ Horvut 11,yrld• ~ fry Freddie ~ Ghnl1y Buonut Golt ~ A~
"ii Spooky Splatt 
Afl,Mtr• 
poverty at home. 
Poor nations owe the United 
States $5.7 billion. including 
$2.1 billion from so-called 
concessional loans, granted at 
interest rates of 1 percent or 
less, and $3.6 billion from non­
concesional loans extended at 
market rates by agencies such 
as the U.S. Export-Import Bank 
to promote sales of U.S. agricul­
tural and manufactured goods. 
The value of much of the debt 
already has been wri.tten down. 
The United States and its 
allies in the Group of Seven 
leading industrialized nations 
already had agreed to forgive 
100 percent of concessional 
loans and 90 percent of non­
concessional loans. Clinton's 
pledgfl commits thfl United 
States to forgive all of the non­
concessional loans, 
The president would pay for 
the initiative with a $970 mil­
lion budget request submitted 
to Congress last week, 
Summers said. 
Rep. Spencer Bachus, H-Ala., 
chairman of the House Banking 
subcommittee on monetary pol­
icy and a supporter of debt 
relief. welcomed Clinton's 
announcemen( Bachus said 
rlobt reliof was the "most effec­
tive way to break shackles of 
poverty, hunger and disease 
burdening 700 million people in 
the poorest countries." 
In his remarks, Clinton said the world has rebounded from the financial crisis that erupted in Asia, triggering what he said was "perhaps the most severe financial crisis in the global .economy since the end of the 
Second World War." 
SOUTH BEND'S BIGGEST PARTY 
DJf 
222 S. Michigan• South Bend• (219) 234-5200 www.ACEplaces.com/heartland cal/ the Heartland Concert & Event Line (219) 251-2568 

page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, September 30, 1999 
GOLDMAN, SACHS & CO. 
The ring pull. 
It's convenient. It's efficient. And it's simply brilliant. 
Want to learn more about a career that fosters this kind of thinking? Consider this an open invitation for open minds. 
Sunday, October 3, 1999 Goldman Sachs is a leading international investment banking and securities firm, providing a full range of investment and
Investment Banking Division 
financing services to corporations, governments,Information Session institutions and individuals worldwide. 
7:00 P.M.-9:00 P.M. Our philosophy, "Minds. Wide Open."sM emphasizes our open collaborative atmosphere
Center for Continuing Education 
wherein ideas are shared and innovative
Room 100 thinking is encouraged. We believe that our teamwork culture affords opportunities for all individuals to have an important impact on the building of our businesses and their success. 
Casual Attire Consider becoming a member of our team. 
Goldman
Saens 
Minds. Wide Open!m 
www.gs.com 
Thursday, September 30, 1999 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Washington's K Street., a corridor of lob­
A.ssociatcd Pre'> 
bying and law firms, to Nashville's Church Street, the former Tennessee
WASI lfNGTON D.C. senator who grew upVice Prnsidcnt /\I (;ore, sbuken by thn 
in Washington saidu1rnxpnctncl strongth of Bill Bradley's hn hoped to "getchallnngc for thn Dnmor.ratic presidential 
closer to thenomination, abruptly uprooted his American people.,
inside-the-Beltway campaign Wednesday ,·loser to thP. grass­for a movP to Tflnnussne and "an oppor­roots and out of thetunity for transformation." Beltway and into the"This is a hard, Lough light," said Gore, heartland."drnllnnging Bradky to a series of issue 
"Every election Gore
debates. 
that I have won hasBy rdocating his lwauquarters from 
Gore transfers caillpaign headquarters to hoille state 


been headquartP-red in Tennessee," Gore recreate the tearn spirit that added. The move was giving some high­propelled his Little Hock, Ark.-based level Gore aides second thoughts about campaign to the White !louse in staying with the campaign. 1992. 
After months of acting out the Gore becume convinced, aides said, presumption that his only as Bradley began to close the gap in competitor was Republican key primary states. A Nashville front-runner George W. Bush, Gore ribbon-cutting already is set for next said Wednesday that he was cager to week and supporters there were lining debate Bradley as a way to "make of up "guest bedrooms" for campaign stall. this campaign a chance for our Gore said. country to rekindle the spirit of But one intended result of the Nashville democracy." move will be a trimming or his staff. 
Bradley, campaigning in California, which Gore has come to realize is too big, told reporters: "For the last 10 too expensive, too slow to react, and, in months, the vice president and his some cases, too burdened by outside campaign have been ignoring mp, and clients, said one aide on condition of 
now  they  want  to  anonymity,  
debate me. I think that shows we're making some progress."  "Every election that I have ever won has been  Another aide, chief strategist Carter Eskew, put it this way:  
In a separate state­ headquartered in  "It's easy  to  be  for  
ment from his head­quarters in West  Tennessee."  someone when he's got an 80-point lead and  
Orange, N.J,, Bradley  no  opponents  but  
made clear he will cam­ Al Gore  there's a  winnowing  
paign on his own time- Vice President  process for staff, too.  
1ine and said he has  just like for candidates.  
already  accepted  a  Now you find out who's  

number of joint appearances with Gore, really in it." including an Oct. 27 town meeting in New The relocation -largely symbolic since liampshire. Gore will continue to reside at 
Bush, the Texas governor, weighed in: Washington's Naval Observatory and per­"I think what matters most is your philos­form his official duties -will also serve ophy and message ... as opposed to to put space between Gore and Clinton, where your headquarters are," whose scandals have been a drag on the 
l'.cws of the shakeup came shortly vice president's poll numbers. before the campaign announced that Ohio Democratic Party rhairman David Gore had raised $6.5 million in the third Leland applauded Gore. quarter, bringing the year's total to $24 "The folks in Washington, D.C., are million. Senior Gore advisers, speaking sometimes only connected to their own on condition of anonymity, said the vice world and I think it's important for all the president had $9.5 million to $10 million campaigns -especially his campaign ­cash on hand -meaning they saved to get back to the real people," Leland just $300,000 to $800,000 of the money said. they raised over the last three months. Gore, whose nomination by the 
The Gore campaign fears that Bradley Democratic Party was once viewed as a is doing as well in gathering campaign fait accompli, sounded Wednesday like cash -and a better job at controlling a man who had just woken up to the two­spending. Bradley has not yet released man contest that's been underway since his third-quarter figures. the start of the year. 
Gore spoke at a hastily called press Asked about Bradley's apparently conference just after dropping the news growing appeal in public opinion polls, on aides suddenly faced with tough per­Gore replied: "Once it became a two-per­sonal decisions about relocating. son race and once they established a 
The drama was reminiscent of baseline of competence and credibility, it Republican Bob Dole's resignation from was inevitable that it would tighten." the Senate as he desperately tried to When pressed, Gore laughed. "There revive his 1996 presidential campaign. are only two candidates. You got Pepsi 
Gore said he decided on the move in and Coke." "the past couple days" and did not Campaign chairman Tony Coelho, discuss it with President Clinton, who Eskew and political director Donna long advocated it as a way to Brazille will move to Nashville. 
BIOSPHERE 2: SEMESTER "ABROAD" Fall 2000 & Spring 2001 
Informational Meeting: 
Thursday, October 7th 
4:45 pm, 126 DeBartolo 
Learn about the newest ND Semester "abroad" program: 
Earth Studies semester at Biosphere 2 in Oracle, Arizona (offered in partnership with Columbia University). Unlike any other program offered to ND students!! 

Bradley announces health care proposal 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 
Democratic presidential can­didate Bill Bradley said Wednesday that his proposal to require parents to get health insurance 
for their children wouldn't necessarily n e e d enforce­m c n t . Parents w o u I d 

jump at the Bradley opportuni­ty, he said. 
Bradley, visiting a free health clinic fur the poor. rnsponded lo critics who questioned how he would enforce that element of the health care plan he unveiled a day earlier. 
"ls there anv rnsistance from the parents 1Nho bring their children lrnre to having health insurance?" he askNI rlwtori­cally during a meeting with a group of 15 doctors, nurses. health activists and parents. 
"People said, 'Well, how are you going tu force people to take health insurance'?'" Bradley said. "It's been my sense that if you were given an opportunity for health insur­ance, them you'd take it for your child." 
Sylvia Pandy, who sat next to Bradley with her 5-year-old son Gregory, appeared unaware of the proposal, which also would provide subsidies to families that can not afford to pay the full cosl of health cov­erage f'or their children. 
!\sked afterward whether she would l:ake aclvantagn of Hradley's ol'f'er should it Im implerne11t11d, Pandy said she probably would. 
Me-anwhile, Bradlev's cam­paign ran half-page ads Wednesday in newspapers in tlrn k1iy statrs of Iowa and NPW llampshire with thn dntails of' his health care plan. Aside from mandated coverage for childnrn, it also would providn, subsidiPs to poor adults, expand Medicare and allow adults to buy into tlrn l'ednral r.mployn1! health plan. 
VIEWPOINT 
page 10 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Oame. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Norre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Michelle Krupa 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
M. Shannon Ryan  David Rogero  
AssT. MANAGll'iG EDITOR  
Laura Petelle  

NEWS EDITOR: Tim Logan VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughen SPORTS EDITOR: Brian Kessler 
SCENE EDITOR: Michael Vanegas SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Noreen: Gillespie PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Dalum 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Bryan Lutz 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Brer Huelat SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers WEB ADMINI~TRAT0R: Erik Kush to 
CONTROLLER: Timothy Lane GRAPHICS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGERIGEl',ERAL INF0.............. 631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CIUEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFflCE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
obscrvcr.obsncws. l@nd.edu 
YIEWl'OINT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.spons. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nJ.edu SAINT MARY's.............................................631-4324 observer .smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO.....................................................631-8767 
SYSTEMS/WEil ADMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visir our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, spam, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for 
weather for up-ro-che 
weekly student reviews 
minute forecasts 
online features for spe­
advertise for policies 
and rates ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives co search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
to meet the editors and 
staff
August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Obseiver is the independent, daily newspaper puhlished in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content is not governed by policies of rhe administration ofeither institurion. Acting as pub­lisher ofThe Observer. the administration of rhe University of Notre Dame du Lac prohibics the adver· tisement ofalcohol and The Observer's acceptance of advertisements from specified types of groups. 
The new; is reported as accurately and objectively as possible, Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. C.ommencaries. letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily chose ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is av4ilable to all readers. The free expression of at! opinions through lecms is encouraged. 
Questions regarding Observerpo!icil's should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefMichellr Krupa. 
SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 
---__-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-~--~----,er-:::=:=~==============:::::-,u-------:..-:.-:..-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-~~ 
LIKE YOUR INTERNET 
13U5INE5S 
IDEA. LET'S 

O
THE 
BSERVER Thursday, September 30, 1999 

CSC Welcomes Institute for Latino Studies 
In the not-too-distant future, the com­position and complexion of the American society will be shaped heavily by demographic changes underway today. By the year 2004, Latinos will be the largest minori-· ty group in the Gilberto United States. Cardenas Globalization processes will 
For a More 
"internationalize" 
Just and
much of domestic 
Humane
life in ways that 
World
are really impossi­ble to image even as early as the end of the first decade of the new millennium. Inter-hemispheric affairs will affect the quality of American life on a daily basis. 
It is almost certain that a concomitant change will occur within the American Catholic Church. Latinos already consti­tute some 40 percent of U.S. Catholics and the proportion will be even greater in the future. Notre Dame will draw increasingly from the growing Latino population and undoubtedly will attract more and more students from abroad, particularly students from the Americas. 
I welcome the opportunity to follow the footsteps of my mentor, Julian Samora, a sociologist and noted scholar who pioneered efforts to establish a Latino intellectual presence at Notre Dame and throughout our nation. Professor Samora's efforts were monu­mental in that he was among very few Latino scholars in the academy who worked tirelessly, sometimes in an unsupportive environments to improve social and educational opportunities for women and minorities. I am honored to be named the Julian Samora Chair in Latino Studies and to he appointed as the first Director of the newly created Institute for Latino Studies. We will be busy developing a progrnm in Latino Studies for undergraduate and gradu­ate students. This program will empha­size interdisciplinary and comparative approaches to the study of Latinos in the United States. Recognizing that Notre Dame is both a national universi­ty and a Catholic university, we will shape an exciting and innovative area of study for Notre Dame students. The Institute will offer teaching and research activities that adva.nce new knowledge about Latinos in American society, and in the American Catholic Church. We will give attention to the relationship between Latino community life in the United States and the coun­tries of origin of the many Latino immi­grant groups who enter our country ­who, for the most part, live in areas 
already populated by Latinos. 
I am heartened by the enthusiasm expressed by Notre Dame students, many of whom are of Latino back­ground. l applaud you for your efforts in advancing the idea of Latino Studies at Notrn Dame. I applaud Notre Dame alumni, particularly members of the Hispanic Alumni Association and others who have supported the establishment of a campus-wide program. I am truly honored to be in your presence and to receive such a wonderful welcome by the entire l\'otre Dame community. 
I am delighted that the organization 
8 YO TH"T -= IF o.,y "ONE"
;;.,· I 5ENT U ,-.. ~_:0 CAN vouu ME"N 
@) I DEil-f:;... -YE.AR AGO. -g • WE l .... 
i SINCE. THEN, FIVE :; BUY ONE 51-\ARE
I 
COMPANIES HAVE u.j ONE OF OF STOCK, 

which I directed at the University of Texas at Austin, the Inter-University 
Program for Latino Research (IUPI.H.) a consortium of 15 centers at graduate 
research institutions in the U.S., has 
relocated to Notre Dame. Several 
ICPLH staff moved with me and now 
provide invaluable leadership and 
assistance to the Institute. Now head­
quartered at Notre Dame with a site 
office in Washington, D.C. at the 
Smithsonian Institution's Center for 
Latino [nitiatives, IUPLH/ND is working 
closely with Notre Dame's leadership 
and Latino leaders in developing 
research and educational opportunities 
central to our mission. 
Jt is my sincere desire and goal to resist the idea that the Institute exists only for Latino students. I invite you to help us develop a program that is use­ful and compelling to students and fac­ulty campus wide. I need your help and support to make this goal a reality. I am hopeful that the Institute will gain the support and participation of a broad sector of the Notre Dame com­munity. 
Dr. Gilberto Cardenas is Director of the University's new Institute for Latino Studies. The Center.for Social Concerns looks forward to collaborations with him and the Institute as together me .face the challenges in bringing about "a more just and humane world. " This col­umn runs every other Thursday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"If you sit on a hot stoz1e for a minute. it feels like an ·hour; ifyou sit next to a pretty womanfor an hour it.feels like a minute. That's relativity." 
Albert Einstein Physicist, Nobel laureate 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE Thursday, September 30, 1999 BSERVER page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Don't let eating disorders destroy your life 
I wotilfl likP to lukn this opportunity to thank tlw author ol" tlrn letter to thP 11ditor publislwd on Snpl. 27, nnUtlncl "ND NePds To Il('ar Silent Screams of' Eating Disnrd(\rS." Wlwn this title captur,1d my 11tt<>ntim1. I was ovor­wlwlnwd with rnliPf. ll is long ovnr­
dun. 
I haw s111T11r('{I from snvcrn. lil'n­thrnatPning (1ating disorch\rs for near­ly lilur yl'ars now. I know thn pain of bulimia: tilt' lwadadws. tlw nausPa. nm toolh corrosion and tlw ulcnrs. And I know how badly it hurts, just to lay in lwd. b11r·ausP a11nt·Pxia had 11nrndatnd mn so s,iwrnly I.hat it hurt. just to bn 1lliv1\. At age 19. I hav<1 coml' all too dosP to tlnath too many tinws. 
This is my scrnnd ymtr hem at 
Notre Danw. and I havn 11lWf1r senn 
this critical isstH'. 111· anything rdat!ld lo it. printNI in Tlw ObsMver. I applaud llrn rnurag1) of' the author of' this (l'Lt<'r. as wdl as Tlw Observer staff. for taking tlw initiativo to open thn cy<'s of Llw students. !'acuity and sta!T to llw widespread prnvelancc of' these chistruclive disorders. 
I am in the first phase of ''recovery." I plead to all young women (and men) l1Prc at Notre Dame who are suffP.ring in silence to please get help. There is lwlp availablo. Coumwling Sm·vices can find you the help you need if they can't provide it for you. I nearly losl. my life sevnral limns because I was too afraid to got the ht:'lp that was out there. waiting for mn. 
Life is fJl'edous. 
To all the victims: You deserve your lifo ~ bulimia and anornxia don't. Your years hem at 1\JotrP Dame are µricelcss, and su are you. Eating dis­orders conslllncd my freshman year hNn (as wnll as my last two years or high school), and lherP. is nothing I can do to get those years back. 
But, when I was ready, I made the dticision Lo take control and get the help I need ... so my last three years here will bu mine. 
You dcsrH·vn them, too. 
Anonymous September 29, I 999 
11 
Students should respect the little 24-hour space we have 
"StudP11ts 1H'11d morn 24-hour social space." Fv1!ry studm1l at lflast oncP rluring tlrnir college earner at Notrn Dame has shared this idea. As true as the need may bn, a small percentage of immaturn students impe(lfi the realization of lhis goal. 
As a student manager at Heckers. I am exposl'd to a number of complaints and prob­lmm; during lati-i night wmlkend "rushes." A midnight-to-4 a.m. shift is not how I would like to spPnd my Friday nights. llowevnr. lhis is the duty I take 011 whil<) employed by Heckers. My job. and tlrn job of <wery full time and student nmploync; would be grnatly eased ii' my fellow dassnrntn1-; would show a litlle morn respect for the p<~opk1, prnperly and irnrviccs offered by the only 24-hour dining arna on campus. Th,i twhavior of' late night shifts on Friday and Saturdays has improvml greatly since last year, but it is slill not enough. Workers are still being insull!'CI \\ith profann words and threats. game mntrnllnrs arc gradually snnaking away, pag1\rs arn !wing ripp(1d off, even bar stools havP br11n disappnaring. Tlrnsc actions do not seem to suggest that the student body is 
responsible enough for additional 24-hour space. Not every student is to blame, but for the small percentage of trouble makers out there -I plead with you to control your behavior or the little 24-hour freedom we have may be taken away. 
Heckers would like to keep the social space available. Games are a nice touch to the place and food at any hour of the day is appreciated. These arc luxuries that can easily be taken away due tn our lack of respect for each other and for our campus. I too would love to see more social space available. Nevertheless, our attitude and behavior does not suggest that we deserve it. Perhaps the solution is more 24­hour space, but I doubt the University will con­cede if this behavior continues. 
John Arechar 
Senior O'Neill Hall September 29, 1999 
Catholicism and the free-market economy can be compatible 
I read Prol'essor Todd Whitmore's occ:asional pieces in The Observer with interest and find they raise many points worth addressing further. On a couple of occasions he has discussed the gap between the rich and the poor'the attitude of the Catholic Church and Pope John Paul II toward the gap. He has seemed to suggest a rather extreme position, which I wonder if he really wishes to attribute to the Church or to hold to himself. l lis Sept. 17 piece, in particular, seems to disparage the focus on improving the lot of the least well off. a focus I believe adopted in the work of philosopher John Rawls. 
A little thought experiment might help clarify the issues. Let us imagine an original income distribution between a typical rich person and a typical poor person and call it Situation A. Thnn, let us one by one look at other hypothetical distributions, situations B through F and make pair-wise comparisons, saying which we con­sider more just. 
Situation A: Rich person $10, poor person $2. Situation B: Hich person $11, poor person $1. Situation C: Rich person $15, poor person $1. Situation D: Rich person $11, poor person $4. Situation E: Rich person $13, poor person $4. Situation F: Rich person $6, poor person $1. 
It seems to me that a widely accepted moral judge1rnmt is that A is better than B. In moving to B. the rich person has in effect taken away $1 from the poor person. It is probably justifiable to say that A is better than C, although this case is slightly problem­atic since C represents a total higher income for society. I think Whitmore and I would agree that D is better than A since the poor person is better-off and th°l) gap has narrowed from $8 to $7. 
The acid test consists ofcases E and F. I would say E is better than A, but I wonder if Whitmore would. After all, the gap between the rich and poor pP.rsons has increas11d from $8 to $9. ls Lhls so bad that it justifies depriving the poor person of a dou­bling of income? To say that it does seems to lend dignity to a spiteful ·and self destructive envy. And I would say that A is bcttur than F, even though F reduces the gap. If one really wishes to "highlight the gap between rich and poor as a sp<icific moral problem," as Whitmore claims the Church docs, docs that force one into the dreary Iespecially for the poorl prospect of choosing F over A? 
In short my rankings are: A over 13, Aover C, D over A, E over 
A. and A over J-<'. These are my rankings as a supposedly impartial observer; but I also honestly think they would be my ranking were I the poor person. I also think they are the rankings which would follow from philosopher Rawls' difference principle. 
I wonder what Whitmore's rankings would be and whctlrnr he would consider me out of step with the Church·s social teaching. 
James Rakowski 
Associarc Professor of Economics September 23, 1999 
Tired of columns and letters about the same old controversies? 
Tell us something new. 
Viewpoint. l@nd.edu 

M E 
page 12 Thursday, September 30, 1999 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Judd and Jones find 'Double' trouble 
By CHRISTINE KRALY Scene l\lovic Critic 
Hell hath no fury like a woman scorned, That scorn is what makes "Double .Jpopardy" hell to watch. 
Take tlrn trite story of a woman-on-the­run seeking nwenge. throw in a bizarre underwater car scene, 
very vague discussion he has with col­leagues. Ile, of course, doesn't tell Libby because then how can he frame her for murdering him if she knows why'~ Ile and Libby then take a quiet trip alone on a boat Nick has just bought for her, 
Libby wakes up in the middle of the night to 11ncl her husband missing and blood rwcrywhern. She then follows the 
tradition ol' many 
a<ld a twist of' Louisiana other· wrongl'ully charm and you've. got "Double arcused movie hero­"Double Jeopardy." ines -she picks up Murder and deceit have Jeopardy" the prr.sumed murder long been components of weapon, a bloody any suspense film. But 
knife. what makes the sus­How appropriate prmse work is not know­then that a Coast ing what's going to hap­Guard boat happens
out olfive shamrocks 
pen next. This is why bv at the same timp, ".fBopardy~ foils, Libby, in her blood­The story centers stained nightgown,
Director: Bruce Beresford
around a woman, Libby touches the weapon 
Parsons (Ashley Judd). Starring: Tommy Lee Jones, presumed to be used who is framed for killing Ashley Judd, Annabeth Gish and to killed her husband. 
her husband Nick (Bruce 
Bruce Greenwood
Greenwood), Csually, a plot like this would be a great "whodunnit" -two hours of figuring out who set her up and why. But anyone paying attention lo the movie's publicity campaigns would know that the film's trailer and its commercials have alroady revealed the answers to some of these questions. . 
Ads and TV spots have played up "Jeopardy" as the time when a woman can finally get back at hflr husband legally and without consequences. In fact, according to law, she could kill him and not be arrested if she's alreadv been convicted of the crime -tbe unsurp1~ising plot of "Jeopardy." 
The audience is introduced to Nick and Libby at a dinner party they are throwing at their home. a nice little place right on the water, where Libby can show her son Matty how to flsh, This is the oldest trick in the book -to see how perfectly happy the family is, and know it can only go downhill. 
Soon we find out that Nick is losing money in his business. Although it's never really revealed how, viewers infer it from a This is when tlrn view­
er becomes the writer, 
. Libby is then con­victed and sent to jail. It's in jail wlrnre she discovers the truth behind her conviction -her husband is behind the whole thing. The audience knows exactly where the plot is going. We k11ow she'll seek revenge because movie-goer minds and hearts know that's what she's supposed to do, 
Through her years in prison, Libby forms friendships with fel!ow inmates, one of which introduces her to the double jeopardy law. Her revengeful wheels start turning and now she is more determined than ever to get out and find her son. Here's where the stereotypical body-build-. ing scenes come in: Libby runs, lifts weights and sweats her determination to make things right. Think Sylvester Stallone running to take on communism in "Rocky 
IV." 
Once out of jail, Libby is sent to a home with other women on parole, where she meets Travis Lehman {Tommy Lee Jones), a parole officer with a bad attitude. Libby escapes the clutches of Lehman's control 

Ashley Judd plays Libby Parsons, a 6'Double Jeopardy." 
and runs away to find her son. Lehman fol­lows her, and eventually he reluctantly helps her, sympathizing with her since he too has a daughter he hasn't seen in years. 
Her journey ends exactly how the audi­ence expects it to end -with tears, sweep­ing music and a reunited love. What is not expected is how cheated the audience feels -cheated for the $7.50 paid for a nail-bit­ing mystery. 
"Double Jeopardy" takes a simple, overused storyline and twists it into a com­plicated and boring one. It is not a movie for those who love figuring things out, for 
woman scorned, in box office No. 1, 
the challenge-seeker. The viewer essential­ly writes the screenplay because its pre­dictability leaves nothing to chance. 
The film is a movie for women angry at their husbands, It can give them a release in seeing a woman take charge and take revenge. 
This is not to say "Double Jeopardy" is wholly unentertaining. Jones' comical tim­ing saves some light scenes from complete boredom and cliche. But these moments are few and far between, and neither Jones nor Judd can escape safely from "Jeopardy." 
VIDEO PICK OF THE WEEK 
De Niro and Scorsese drive cinema at its finest 
By MATT NANIA 
Scene Movie Critic 
"Taxi Driver" is, simply put, a landmark film. It is a bril­liant, ruthless movie vvith a haunting portrayal of urban life, and is arguably one of the best movies ever made. Gaining more and more respect as an important film in American cinema, "Taxi Driver" was recently named No. 4 7 on the American Film Institute's JOO
"Taxi Driver" 
most important American films of Director: Martin Scorsese the 20th century. It 
is an undeniably
Starring: Robert De Niro, Jodie 
brilliant, nightmar­foster. Harvey Keitel and Cybill ish portrait of one man's personal
Shephard 
hell. 
Robert De Niro plays Travis Bickle, a disillusioned ex-Marine who, unable to sleep, b<•comes a New York City cab driver for the night shift. He observes all the fetid details -drug deah~rs, prostitutes and murderes -of life on the streets, basical­ly sePing it all. 
Bickle secretly wishes to rid New York of all this human garbage. What he doesn't realize is. by being a psychoti­cally irrational man, he is just like the worst of' them. And when a relationship with a beautiful campaign worker (Cybill Shepherd) fails, his reprnssion becomes too much, He must find an outlet through which he can express himself. 
For Travis. fury is manifested through violence, His burning wrath at New York society only increases by what he sees in his customers -people who seek the death of their philandering wives, rich tycoons who have flings with hookers and 12-year-old prostitutes being battered by their employers. 
One such prostitute., Iris (a shockingly young Jodie Foster), embodies Travis' desire to clean up New York, He decides to save her from her wicked boss, Sport (Harvey Keitel), because, like the city itself, she is lost in a world of depravity. 
Tho film concludes with a controversial and almost operatic display of violence in which Travis murders everyone who stands in the way of' saving Iris. He thinks what hf' is doing is good, full of' heart and noteworthy. It is so chilling and frightening because the audience knows that this killing spree is only a temporary way of' distancing himselff'rom his insanity, 
The strength of "Taxi Driver" comes largely from the brilliant direction by Martin ScorsPse. He somehow brings all tho surreal and lwllish aspects of New York together with a story that is electric and latent with vio­lence. Only Scorsese is capable of such dynamics, and "Taxi Driver" is his best example. 
At the center of this maelstrom is Do Niro's intense and moving performance as Bickle. He gives a multi-layered tour de force that never loses Travis' humanity even as he reveals the monster within. And, of coursP-, he has the film's most hauntingly famous scene, in which Travis looks in the mirror and says, "You talkin' to me? You talking to me'' .,. Well I'm the only one here," It is hard to imagine anyone but DcNiro delivering those lines. 
"Taxi Driver" represents the turning point in both De Niro and Scorsese's careers. With their success from 

Photo courtesy of Columbia Pictures 
Robert De Niro plays Travis Bickle in "Taxi Driver." 
"Taxi Driver," they went on to make such great films as "llaging Bull," "The King of Comedy" and the quintesscm­tial gangster-epic, "Goodfellas." 
Rising from the past like steam from a subway tunnel, Martin ScorscsP-'s 20-ycar-old "Taxi Driver" retains its power to shock and disturb, Without a doubt, it spawned two great careP-rs, and that reason alone makes it a cru­cial piece of cinema. 

M 
c~ne E 
Thursday, September 30, 1999 OBSERVER page 13 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Things are OK in quirky 'Mumford' 

---======--================================================================================================================= 
l\y V. VAN BUREN GILES 
SrL'lll' ~1ovir.: Critic 
"l\lumford." WPII. that sounds lik(~ an odd name. /\ny l'ilm with a 1111111" this rrazy has gol lo be good. right'.' lkn•'s tlH• kkkPr: It is a grnat moviti. With prnduction compani1~s coming up with crazy namns for rnovi1•s just l.o fill l.lwatnrs -like thn Eclwanl Furlong disastPr. "1'11ck1:r" -pnopln arn finding out that t.lw off-lwat nanrn is not always a winner. 
But "Mu1111'ord" dl'livurs, as dirnctor Lawrnnce Kasclan {"TIH• Big Chill." "Tl11\ /\cciclenlal Tourist"! brings till' story or a small-town psychiatrist and his nl'urotic p a t iI' n ts t o I fw Sl'l'l'l'l1. ThP llilllll' 
"Mumford" 
l\l111111'ord roml's l'rom th<' namP of' lhP town as wi>ll as IIH• last na11w 

oI' tlw doctor. out offive shamrocks p Ia y,, d by !. or" 11 llPan {"c; at.la('. a . " 
Director: Lawrence Kasdan 
"li111imy of' tlic 
Starring: Loren Dean. Hope
Stal,.." "i\pollo 
1:n. Davis. Jason Lee, Ted Dansen. Mary " r-,1 u m I' o r d .. 
McDonnell, Alfre Woodard and
takl's audiPIH"PS to 
a q u a in I Ii It I1• Martin Short Low11 wilh what 
looks to lw ordinary, run-ol'-tlw-mill country folk. Oncl' rp1·li111,d in lioc Mumf'orcJ!s sofa. however, vi.-wPrs rn11liz1'. just how sic:k and frustrated Lim 
town's inhahit1111ts am. 
Dr. Mumford l'irsl 11rnets tho µharmacist (Pruitt lavlor VincP, "Natural Born Killm·s." "J.F.K.," "Ai1g1d 11£•art"I, who has paranoid fantasies of Purly '50s and 'fi0s pornographic scenarios, i.e. the handsonrn n•lwl who rolls into town without a dol­lar to his n,unc. and gels lakcn in by a buxom sin­gle nwtlwr and her (\qually well-endowed, blos­soming tnPnagr~ daughtnr. 
Nnxl lw nrnnls thn borHd housewif'e (Mary MrllonnPII. "Da!ll'f'.S With Wolves," "lndependcncP l>ay"). Shn is driving her husband (Ted Danson. "Three Mt\ll and a Baby," "Made in America,") and hnr two childrnn nuts by buying mindless, inani­rnalfl objects l'rom home-delivery stores like Crate and Barrnl. William Sllnoma and J. Crnw. From the start, Mumford realizes that these two people are complete opposites and am nnly making each other more misPrnbl1\ by staying together. 
Thero is also a 20-something mechanical genius (.Jason l.e11, "Mallrats," "Chasing Amy") who became a multi-billionairn by inventing a revolutionary modem for computers. lie can't !'ind a friend lrncause his money always complicates his relation­ships, so instnad of' hiring Dr. Mumf'orrl as a thera­pist. he Pmploys him as a friend who will listen and talk. 
Al I th (J doctor's patients could be considcred Wi(!l'd or out-of-touch with reality. except for one girl (llopl' Davis) who suffers from clinical dcpres-
Box OFFICE 
sion. The doctor presents a different system of ther­apy for each patient, but about one-third of the way into the film, the audience realizes that he has a checkered past, including a secret that could ruin his practice and hb life. 
Alt.hough this film really docs not boast a huge budget, it does sport a stellar cast. Martin Short {"Three fugitives," "Captain Ron," "Mars Attacks"} plays a disgruntled defense attorney who is con­vinced that Dr. Mumford is a fraud and not the cer­tified psychiatrist that he claims to be. David Paymer ("City Hall." "Quiz Show." "Mr. Saturday Night") plays the town's psychoanalyst who dis­agrees completely with Martin Short's character and also comes under the care of Mumford. 
The first 30 minutes of "Mumford" is extremely slow, thus the audience has difficulty deciding whether the film is a comedy or a drama. But things 
begin to roll once the doctor reveals his big secret. 
From there, a beautiful and magical love story develops between Dean and Davis that snowballs on to the rest of the characters, making them feel happy and content. Each of the patients finds joy and solace, usually in the arms of another one of Doc's patients. Whatever ailment they were previ­ously suffering from has now disappeared, going to show that warm and compassionate treatment can solve almost any problem. 
There is great low-brow humor scattered throughout the film. and although it sePms like he only has about eight lines in the entire movie, Ted Danson steals the show comically. The moral of the story is that everyone deserves a second chance, and even those people who everyone envies because they appear to havp everything going for them. have their own dirty little secrets. 
"Double Jeopardy" topped a crowded box office, taking in $23.7 million and easily kicking "Blue Streak" to the No. 2 spot. Other new films "Jakob the Liar" and "Mumford" fared poorly, taking the eighth and ninth spot, respectively. 
Photo courtesy of Paramount Pictures 
Movie Title 
1
. Double Jeopardy 

2. 
Blue Streak 

3. 
The Sixth Sense 

4. 
For Love of the Game 

5. 
American Beauty 

6. 
Stigmata 

7. 
Stir of Echoes 

8. 
Jakob the Liar 

9. 
Mumford 


P.24-26 
Weekend Sales Total Sales 
.. 
$ 23.7 million $ 23. 7 million $ 13.2 million $ 37.7 million $ 8.5 million $ 225.1 million $ 6.6 million $ 23.2 million $ 6.0 million $ 7.6 million $ 4.8 million $ 40.5 million $ 2. 3 million $ 15.6 million $ 2.2 million $ 2.2 million $ 2.0 million $ 2.0 million 
10. Runaway Bride $ 1.6 million $ 146.6 million 
-
Source: Associated Press 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 30, 1999 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Texas Tech Williams 
GT needs FSU win to to get in bowl 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA 
No. 9 Georgia Tech can't afford any more slip-ups. 
Having already lost a thrilling game to top-ranked Florida State. the Yellow Jackets must keep on winning to fulfill their goal of playing in the Bowl Championship Series. 
"It's tough. We've goJ a lot of great teams still to play," said tight end Conrad Andrzejewski, looking ahead to Thursday night's game against unbeaten Maryland. "But we've got to win every week. That's what H boils down to. It's not like the pros. where it's OK Lo lose a game and still get in the playoffs. We've got to win every game." 
Maryland {3-0, 0-0 Atlantic Coast ConferenceI has been one of the nation's most surprising teains, coming within a couple of turnovers of three straight shutouts. The Terrapins routed West Virginia 33-0 in their last game, one of their biggest victo­ries in years. 
"There is a real seriousness within our ranks," coach Ron Vanderlinden said. "We have three under our belt. Our goal is to have a winning season and get ourselves into postseason play. Once we get to that goal, we'll take a different look at the whole situation." 
Maryland also shut out Temple in the opener and might have 
CLASSIFIEDS 
done the same against Westt>rn ing passer (76.7 percent comple­
out with knee sprain
Carolina, except for a couple of tions, seven touchdowns. no 
turnovers inside the Terps 25 interceptions) and Tech's No. 2 that led to the only 10 points rusher ·with 157 yards. surrendered this season. He has plenty of weapons 
Associated Press 
That's quite a change from the around him. including receivers last two season, when Maryland Dez White (nine receptions, LUBBOCK, Texasallowed an average of nearly 30 23.4-yard average) and Kelly Ricky Williams, the key topoints pet game. • Campbell (13 catches. two TDs). 
the Texas Tech offense,"Obviously, Running 
aggravated a knf'e sprain dur­

they're playing "It's not like the pros, back Phillip 
ing practice and is out for the
much better Rogers, who
where it's OK lo lose a 
rest of the season.
defense," skipped the 
Tech doctors said
Andrzejewski game and still get in the last game 
Wednesday ihat surgery
said. "Up front, playoffs. We've got to win against would be scheduled later thisthey're stopping Central 
week. Team personnel
every game. 
the rnn. The Florida 
wouldn't say whether the
defensive backs because of a sprain of his left knee will end 
are much Conrad Andrzejewski sore shoulder, 
his career.
improved. Georgia Tech tight end is oxpoctC'd to 
"It's gut wrenching. no
We're going to have to wear our big-boy pads this week." 
· So will Maryland, which is tak­ing a giant leap forward in the quality of competition. 
Georgia Tech (2-1, 0-1) has one of the nation's most explo­sive offenses, led by Heisman Trophy contender Joe Hamilton and averaging 41.7 points per game. 
The Yellow Jackets have a dominating offensive line, led by mammoth Jon Carman (335 pounds) and only slightly less imposing Chris Brown (315 pounds) at the tackles. 
As with most teams, Tech holds a substantial size advan­tage over Maryland's defensive front. 
Hamilton is the nation's lead-
return. 
doubt," coach Spike Dykes
He'll be 
said. "The worst thing about
backed up by Scan Gregory, who 
athletics is injuries, bAcausc 
ran for a career-high 150 yards 
these kids put their whole life
whilt> RogE>rs was hurt. 
into it, an<l it can be taken
"They have as diversified an 
awav in an instant It breaks
offense as anvone in the nation, 
my heart to see something like
and Joe Hamilton is the reason it 
that happen to good people." 
all works," Vanderlinden said. 
Williams' absence leaves the 
"He's a phenomenal talent." 
Red Raiders, already floun­
Though not at the same level 
dering after last weekend's 
as Hamilton, redshirt freshman 
21-14 loss to North Texas, in
Calvin McCall provides many of 
disarray. It also dims
the same features for Maryland. 
Williams' chances of breaking
He has thrown for 430 yards and 
the NCAA Division I-A rushing
three touchdowns, has rushed 
record set bv Texas' Rickv
for 148 vards, scored once and 
Williams last year. •
average<l 5.7 yards per carry. 
Williams had played every
"The biggest change for them 
game at Tech /1-2) the past
is at quarterback," Tech coach 
two _seasons, rushing for 1,582
George O'Leary said. "They have 
yards and 13 touchdowns last 
more avenues to get things 
year. The school had set up a
done." 
Web site to chart his progress 
this season called "Heisman Chase." 
"We couldn't have more hope or optimism about a player and his potential," Dykes said. 
Williams had missed the team's last two games al"tm· injuring the knm) in t.h11 open­er against Arizona Stale, and Dykes had listed the running back as a "maytw" for Saturday's game against No. 5 Texas A&M. 
During practice Tuesday, Will.iams aggruvaled the injury while running in a no­contact exercise. 
"He just faltered and went down." said tight P.nd Kyle !\llamon, who -saw a tape of the practice. "There wasn't any hit or contact. ... Ho just put loo much pressure on the knee." 
"'We are just going to have play harder." offensive line­man Curtis Lowery said. "We can't get too upset about los­ing one person. He isn't the whole team, he's just a good part of it. If we just go out there and give up. then WP. might as well not go out them at all." 
The decision to put Williams back on the field seems to have been prompted by Williams' own competitiv1~ spirit. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. ar the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day. including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
HEAVENLY HAM  Nude Male models needed for stu­ 8 bedroom house. 2 baths.  I need ASU tickets.  Call Jack at 257­ Need 3 USC tickets  
LOST & FOUND  Immediate Openings for Energetic Individuals. Store Work Hours: M-F 7:30 to  dent Art film. Mere: 247-1810  Completely renovated. ND Ave. 675.0776  1141. SELL & BUY GA FOOTBALL TICK·  Please call Tom 634-1440 Need 4 Okla GAs  
LOST A palmpilot. Palm V. extremely important!! If found please call 4­0870  5:30 Sat: 8:00 to 2:30 No Sundays Will schedule work around classes.Apply at 2307 Edison. 288-4267  OESTERREICHER gesucht, mrt gueltigem Reisepass als Zeuge fuer NR'Wahl. Bille Tel. 4-3967 (Anton) e-mail: zeilinger.1 @nd.edu  5/6 BDRM HOMES."00-01YR 272­6551 6BDRM$150 person.272-6306  ETS 277-6619 For sale: 2 Oklahoma GAs. Call Tim at 634-4853.  Eric 243-3347 ND MOM NEEDS 11 ARIZ. STATE GA'S. PLEASE CALL 1-800-447-1200, THEN  
PRESS 2-2242. CALL WILL BE  
WANTED  WANTED: 1 or 2 Jr. or Senior classwomen to host 2  TUTORS needed for college & high school students in Algebra &  FOR SALE  WANTED· ND football tix. AM • 232-2378  RETURNED ASAP. Need sets of two or four tickets for  
STUDENT OPENINGS 5-30 hrs.fweek. Flex. around class­ highschool senior girls wanting to see Notre Dame. hoping to attend.Time starts with lunch at University Club  Intermediate Algebra. Also need tutors for general help/review in Eng.,Sociology, Psychology. Call  Spring Break Specials'Bahamas Party Cruise 5 Days $279! Includes Meals1  PM -288-2726 ND football tix for sale.  Navy or USC games. Call Brian at 634-3346  
es. Scholarships avail. www.workfotstudents.com/lN 282-2357  Friday October 15 at noon, with a post-pep rally dinner at Carriage House. Includes all day '1ailgate" Saturday in Joyce South & any inci­ Linda at 272-8235 or email-lwaelch­li@datacruz.com  Awesome Beaches,Nightlife'Cancun & Jamaica 7 Nights From $399! Florida $ 129!springbreaktravel.com 1-800--678-6386  AM · 232-2378 PM · 288-2726 I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME  $$$$$$$$ NEED A HANG TAG FOR OK. WEEKEND. WILL PAY BIG BUCKS. CALL KEITH @ 234-8646  
Spring Break '00 Cancun.Mazatlan or Jamaica From $399 Reps wanted' Sell 15 and travel free!  dental expenses.Other plans wel­comed.Contact 219-287-1405, leave message. Browse icpt.com for Springbreak  FOR RENT  FOR SALE N.D. FOOTBALL TIX CALL 271-9412  GAMES.2726551 BUYING and SELLING ND FOOT­BALL TICKETS. GREAT PRICES. CALL 289-8048  $$$$$$ Need up to 1oUSC tix for family. Will pay top$. · Call Matt at 273-2802.  
LOWEST PRICES GUARANTEED!!!  "2000". ALL destinations offered.Trip  ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE  FOR SALE  
lnfo:Call 1-800-446--8355  Participants.Student Orgs & Campus  HOME FOR  N.D. FOOTBALL TIX  ++++++++++++++++++++++++++++  FOR SALE:  
www.sunbreaks.com  Sales Reps wanted.Fabulous par­ ND-SMC EVENTS.  CALL 271-9412  +  ASUTIX.  
Help wanted at 4 Michiana locations. Great pay, flex. hrs. No Sundays.  ties.hotels & prices.Call Inter­Campus 800-327-6013  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 243-0658.  Phone Cards, 669 min/$20 243-9361 or 258-4805  N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS BUY/SELUTRADE ALL GAMES  271-9331 NEED FOOTBALL TIX FOR ARI·  
Apply in person or send resume to:  Loving ND-SMC couple wishes to  ALL LOCATIONS  ZONA GAME.  
FRULLATI CAFE/UP MALL 6501 N. GRAPE RD. #576 MISHAWAKA, IN 46545  adopt. Will provide a lifetime of laugh­ter .love .devotion and opportunities. 800·484-4699 code 0019  HOMES CLOSE TO CAMPUS http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/ 232-2595  Washer&Dryer. Apartment­sized, stacking w/ frame. Hooks into sink faucet. Great  GREAT PRICES 271-9330 !!NO STUDENT TICKETSI!  CALLJACKAT 219-257-1141.  
..  SPORTS CLUBS & STUDENT GROUPS-Earn $1000-2000 w~h easy CIS Fund event.No sales required.Fund Rasier days are filling up, so call today.Contact Joe @ 1-888-522­4350. FREE TRIPS AND CASH!!'  DON'T WORK THIS SCHOOL YEAR! $1200 TO $2000 THIS MONTH. Part time 4 to 6 hours per week. Call 24 hrs (219) 239-6709 REFEREES REFEREES NEEDED FOR BAS­KETBALL & INLINE HOCKEY. THIS  THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths, $80-$115, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road Exit #107, 1-800-418­9487. LOADED  condit,on. $500/obo 631-6101. ARA PARSEGHIAN CHARITY SALE & AUCTION 1000ND. ITEMS PLUS OTHER GREAT SPORTS COLLECTIBLES OCT. 15 -9AM-9PM  TICKETMART INC. www.ndtickets.com ++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ ++ FOR SALE N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS CALL 271-9412 SPRING BREAK 2000  For SALE 2 tixs all games 272-6306 PERSONAL Gay. Lesbian and Bisexual students of ND/SMC meeting each Thurs. For info call:  
SPRING BREAK 2000 StudentCity.com is looking for Highly Motivated Students to promote Spring Break 2000!  IS A TREMENDOUS OPPORTUNI­TY TO EARN GOOD MONEY, MEET NEW PEOPLE, & HAVE FUN! EXPERIENCE HELPFUL,  6 Bedrm '00-01 yr. 273-0482 I 234-3831 BED 'N BREAKFAST  LOGAN CENTER 1235N. EDDY BENEFITTING ARA'S FOUNDA­ "THE MILLENlUM" A NEW DECADE...NCE IN TRAV­ELFREE TRIPS.FREE MEALS!JAMAICA.CANCUN.FLORI·  (877)631-6OUT FAX IT FAST!II  
Organize a small group and travel FREE!!Top campus reps can earn a Free Trip & over $10,000'Choose Cancun, Jamaica or Nassau! Book Trips On-Line. Log In and win FREE stuff.  BUT WE WILL TRAIN EVERY­BODY. CONTACT THE REC­SPORTS OFFICE-BRANDON LEIMBACH OR JEFF WALKER @ 631-6100, OR STOP BY THE OFFICE IN THE ROLFS SPORTS RECREATION CENTER TODAY.  REGISTRY 219-291-7153 3.4 & 5 bdrm homes. Tall ceilings, wash/dry, walk to campus. call for more info. 289-4365  TION & THE LOGAN CENTER. CALL LAWRENCE FOR MORE INFO, RAFFLE TICKETS & LIST OF AUTOGRAPH GUESTS. 219-257-0039.  DA.BARBADOS.BAHAMAS.SIGN UP BY NOV. 5 FOR 2 FREE TRIPS AND FREE MEALS! 1800-426-7710 WWW.SUNSPLASHTOURS.COM I need 2-4 ND vs. ASU tickets! GA or  Sending & Receiving at THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1 FAX ITFASTII!  
Sign Up Now On Line1 www StudentCity .com or 800/293-1443  REFEREE MEETINGS WILL TAKE PLACE IN THE ROLFS SPORTS REC. CENTER MEETING ROOM ON WED. 10/6 AT 6PM FOR HOCK­ Beautiful Home. 5 bedrooms, two bathrooms. Brand new stove, refrig­erator, dishwasher, washer and dryer. Alarm. Attached garage.  TICKETS WANTED NOTRE DAME FOOT­ student tickets. Please call Autumn at 284-5024. WANTED:USCTIX  AUSTRALIA! SUMMER NJINTER/INTERSHIPS/SEMESTER PROGRAMS  
EY AND AT 7PM FOR BASKET­BALL  Fenced yard. Immaculate condition. 675.0776  BALL TICKETS 271-1526  247-1659  www,study-australia.com Contact chris@study-australia.com  

Thursday, September 30, 1999 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
student union 
HAPPENING§ 
STUDENT U/1//0/1/ BOARD 

Movie: The Matrix. 09/30. Thursday. Cushing Auditorium. 1030PM. Tickets: $2. 10/01. Friday. Cushing Auditorium. 0S00PM & 1030PM. 10/02. Saturday. Cushing Auditorium. 0800PM & 1030PM. 
Acousticafe. 09/30. Thursday. LaFortune Huddle. 0900PM-1200AM. 
Student Union Board Promo Day. 10/06. Wednesday. LaFortune. 0200PM-0500PM. Free popcorn and sno-cones. 
Class Mass. 10/04. Monday. The Grotto. 0500PM. 
CLA!i!i OF r!OOr! 
Resume and Career Fair. 09/30. Thursday. 102 Debartolo. 0630PM. 
SAINT MARY'§ COLLEGE 
Pride Week. 10/06. Wednesday. 
Ml!iCELLANEOU!i/CAMPU!i-WIDE 
University Task Force on Sweatshops Symposium. 10/04. Monday. Hesburgh Center. 0700PM-0830PM. 
r 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 30, 1999 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Boston clinches playoff berth despite split with Chicago 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 
The Boston Red Sox are back in the playoffs. Now they want more. 
"We're happy, but not con­tent," shortstop Nomar Garciaparra said Wednesday night after a 6-2 victory over the Chicago White Sox in a doubleheader opener clinched a postseason berth for the sec­ond straight season. 
Pedro Martinez, the 23-game winner. didn't pitch, hut he came out of the dugout and did a nifty cartwheel near the mound after Chicago's Mike Caruso lined into a game-end­ing double play. 
The Red Sox high-fived their way off the field, but the champagne had to chill for another couple of hours ­there was another game to play. 
They didn't win that one, however. Chicago captured the second game, 4-2. to earn a split. 
But the Red Sox had already clinched at least a wild-card berth. 
"We have attained something and it's very special," said Boston manager Jimy Williams. 
It is Boston's first back-to­back playoffs appearances since 1915-16. 
"We know what lies ahead. But we want to relish the moment," Williams said. "We are a playoff team, one of four (in the AL). It's a good feeling." 
Despite losing their top power hitter, Mo Vaughn, to the Anaheim Angels through free agency, the Red Sox (91­
67) have clinched a playoff berth still have an outside shot 
to  overtake  the  New  York  
Yankees (95-62), who  were  
rained out at Baltimore.  

"This shows the Red Sox can put a contender out there year in and year out, even though we lost one of our most recog­nizable players," general man­ager Dan Duquette said. "Last year, we won one playoff game. This year we'd like to win a lot of playoff games." 
With consecutive 90-win sea­sons for the first time since they did it three straight years from 1977-79, the Red Sox will face either Cleveland or Texas in the best-of-5 first-round series. 
The Indians eliminated Boston from the postseason in 1998 and 1995. 
"We've got to believe we can go all the way," said Garciaparra, whose 27th homer broke a 2-2 tie in the fifth. "We're not going to sit on our hands. The division isn't over yet. We're not going to let up. We're good. People who said we wouldn't be don't know a thing. We had a lot of faith." 
Garciaparra, who'd been bothered by a bruised right wrist, went 2-for-4 with a walk, raising his league-lead­ing average to .3~7 average with 104 RBIs. 
Mariners 7, Rangers 3 
Edgar Martinez and Charles Gipson drove in two runs each as the Seattle Mariners beat Texas 7-3 Wednesday night, ending the Rangers' five-game winning streak. 
Juan Gonzalez hit his 38th homer and Royce Clayton got his 1,000th career hit for the Rangers, one victory shy of a franchise record 95-win sea­son. The Rangers are two games behind Cleveland and 1 1/2 behind the New York Yankees in the race for home­field advantage in the AL play­offs. 
Seattle's Ken Griffey Jr. had two doubles and struck out three times, remaining two homers short of becoming the youngest player to 400 home runs in major league history. 
Mariners rookie Gil Meche (8-4} took advantage of a four­run lead in the first inning and won his fourth straight deci­sion, allowing two runs and five hits in five-plus innings. 
He struck out five and walked two. 
In the first, Gipson had a two-run single and Martinez an RBI single, and another run scored when Jay Buhner was hit by a pitch wit.h the bases loaded. 
Gonzalez's solo homer in the fourth and Rusty Greer's RBI triple in the fifth made it 4-2. 
Seattle made it 6-2 the sixth as the Mariners knocked out an ineffective Aaron Sele, try­ing to become a 19-game win­ner. 
Tigers 6, Twins 3 
Dave Mlicki pitched seven strong innings, and Karim Garcia and Frank Catalanotto homered as the Detroit Tigers beat the Minnesota Twins 6-3 Wednesday night. 
Garcia hit a three-run homer in the fourth inning and 

.. 
Catalanotto added a solo shot in the sixth for the Tigers, who have won five straight. 
After allowing three unearned runs in the first inning, Mlicki (14-12) pitched six scoreless innings to win for the ninth time in his last 11 starts. 
He scattered eight hits, struck out five and walked one. 
Todd Jones pitched the ninth for his 28th save in 33 oppor­tunities. 
Joe Mays (6-11) allowed five runs and five hits in six innings. 
The Tigers scored in the first when Luis Polonia led off with a double, followed by consecu­tive walks to Brad Ausmus, Tony Clark and Oean Palmer. 
After singles by Damion Easley and Gabe Kapler in the fourth, Garcia followed with his 14th homer of the season to give the Tigers a 4-3 lead. 
Catalanotto's 11th home run of the season made it 5-3 in the sixth and Cruz's RBI groundout in the ninth off J.C Romero increased Detroit's lead to 6-3. 
Royals 5, Indians 2 
Jose Rosado finally pitched a complete game and won. 
The Cleveland Indians' bid for the best record in the American League was stalled when Rosado pitched a four­hitter to lead the Kansas City Royals to a 5-2 win Wednesday night. 
Manny Ramirez put the Indians ahead in the first inning with his 161st RBI, the most Jimmie Foxx drove in 175 in 1938. Ramirez is one short of tho Indians record set by Hal Trosky in 1936. 
Rosado (10-14) gave up a run and two hits in the first inning, then retired 20 of his next 22 batters to beat Charles Nagy (17-11) and stop Cleveland's four-game winning streak. 
Rosado struck out five -all in a six-batter span -and walked one in his fifth com­plete game this season, the 11th of his carePr. 
Hosado lost in his first four complete games this year. 
Clen)land, trying to gain home-field advantage through­out the playoffs. dropped to 96-62 with four games remain­ing. The New York Yankees are 95-62 with five games to go. 
After Ramirez's RBI grounder in the first, Kansas City went ahead 3-1 in the fourth on run-scoring singles 
Cmbracing I.he season, 
_ while indulging in the festivity of the harvest. ,~,,._ '10-; Ss>.!.in's introduces dining in the true spirit of Notre Dame. 
' 

~ 
oio: 
It's time for you to make the calls. To create your own future. To hove o real impact. After all, it's your world . 
And we'd be a perfect fit. Because only at Ford Motor Company will you find a spectrum of opportunities this broad and a level of impact this impressive. The fact is, we're experiencing a major transformation -to a consumer company that provides automotive products and services. And to be successful, we need professionals with the hunger to learn. The knowledge to teach. And the ability to lead. 
We're entering a period full of big challenges -and even bigger decisions. 
Is your world ready for it? 
We will be interviewing on campus soon. For more information please contact your career center or visit www.ford.com/careercenter. 

By dloice, we are an Equal Opportunity Employer committed to a culturally diverse workforce. 
by Carlos Beltran, Mike Sweeney and Joe Handa. 
Blue Jays 6, Devil Rays 2 
Kelvim Escobar tied a sea­son-high with nine strikeouts over 6 2/3 innings, and Tony Fernandez had a pair of RBI singles as the Toronto Blue Jays beat the Tampa Bay Devil Rays 6-2 Wednesday night. 
Shawn Green went 4-for-4 with a walk for Toronto. lie reached base eight times in 1 O plate appearances during the two-game series, had five HBls and scored five times. 
Escobar (14-11) gave up two runs and seven hits while walking two. 
In three previous starts this season against Tampa Bay, including two losses, the i-ight­h and er allowed 18 earned runs in 10 1-3 innings. 
Bobby Witt (7-15) lost his seventh straight decision, giv­ing up six runs and 11 hits in six-plus innings. Witt hasn't won since Aug. 12. 
Tampa Bay has lost 11 of its last B home games. The Devil Rays (68-91) need to win two of three this weekend from the New York Yankees to become the fourth expansion team to reach 70 wins in their first or second season. 

' --~~ ·-· _.....,. 

Thursday, September 30, 1999 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
CAMPUS MINISTRY·· 
Calendar of Events 
Corrections for activities listed on Tuesday: -Catechist Information Session took place on September 1 -Pachanga '99 took place on September 2. 
• Africentric Spirituality Freshman Intro Retreat 
took place on September 3-4. -Liturgy of Final Vows took place on September 
4. 
Freshman Retreat #25 (Nov. 5-6) Sign-Up 
Continuing through Nov. 1, 103 Hesburgh Library, 112 Badin Hall. Targeted Dorms: Alumni, Breen·Philllps, Dillon, Howard, Keough, Lyons, McGlinn, Pasquerilla West, and Sorin 
Respect Life Sunday 
Sunday, October 3 
Rejoice! Black Catholice Mass 
Sunday, October 3, 4:00 pm Sorin Hall Chapel 
ND Encounter Retreat #58 (Nov. 5'7),Sign-Up 
Monday-Friday, October 4-8, 103 Hesburgh Library 
Campus Bible Study 
Tuesday, October 5, 7:00 pm Badin Hall Chapel 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
Wednesday, October 7, 10:00-;t0:30 po, Walsh Hall Chapel A Spirit-titled, student~led power half hour of.prayerand music for students of all Christian faith traditions. 
Graduate Student Bible Study Group 
Wednesday, October 7, 8:00 pm Wilson Commons 
A faith community of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual ·students and their Friends sponsored by Campus Ministry 
Tuesday, October 6, 8:00 pm Fr. Nicholas Ayo, C.S.C., will present reflections and lead discussion on Tile Lord's Prayer. Please contact Tami Schmitz at 1-3016 or Tom Doyle, 
C.S.C. (1-3391) for mformation on meeting plai;:e. 
Twenty-seventh Sunday in Ordinary Time 
Weekend Presiders 
at Sacred Heart Basilica 
Saturday, October 2 Mass 
30 min. after the game 
Rev. James K. Foster, C.S.C. 
Sunday, October 3 Mass 
8:00 a.m. 
Rev. Nicholas R. Ayo, C.S.C. 
10:00 a.m. 
Rev. Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C. 
11:45 a.m. Rev. William A. Wack, C.S.C. 
Vespers Sunday, September 19 
7:15 p.m. Sr. Eleanor Bernstein, C.S.J. 
STEPAN CENTER 
Saturday, October 2 Mass 
45 min. after the game Rev. William A. Wack, C.S.C. 
Scripture Readings 
1st Reading  Isaiah 5:1-7  
2nd Reading  Philippians 4:6-9  
Gospel  Matthew 21: 33-43  

It's a Matter of Life 
Jim Lies, C.S.C. [Ues.4@nd.edu] 
Some of you know, I was born eighth in a family of ten chil­dren. My parents had their first nine children in ten years. At our house, we used to joke that my dad would come home from work and ask my Mom, "What's new?" and she would reply, "Look in the Crib!" As big as my family is, however, most of you know that it wasn't that unusual in the days following WWII. Ten, twelve, fif­teen, even twenty kids wasn't unheard of. My Mom and Dad didn't have much money. My Dad was a Catholic grade school teacher and my Mom was kept mightily busy at home, as you might imagine. But it wasn't about money, it was about life. And when my Dad died six months before their tenth child was born, and some sug­gested she give up the baby, Mom's decision wasn't about econom­ics, it was about life. She would keep that child because it wasn't about convenience, or even security, it was about life. 
This is Respect Life Week here at Notre Dame. And during this time we remind ourselves that indifference will never be enough. To sit idly by, will never be enough. But it isn't only about the major cultural threats to life that we have to concern ourselves. If we are as we say we are, "Pro-life", then we need to promote and support life wherever we are. 
It will never be enough to say that I am opposed to abortion, and then fail to care for the needy child. It will never be enough to stand in protest against capital punishment and not concern our­selves with the care of the death row inmate. It will never be enough to preach against euthenasia and never visit the sick, and the suffering, and the dying. It is no small task we undertake. We who call ourselves pro-life must stand up for life, for all life! We must stand in solidarity with thousands and millions who disdain the cul­ture of death which pervades our time. 
We must stand in solidarity with the millions of children whose lives were cut short by abortion. We must stand in sohdarity with the young women who, out of fear, seek abortion because they see no other way out of an unexpected pregnancy. We must stand in solidarity with those whose lives are somehow deemed worthless. We must stand in solidarity with the prisoner, and the death row inmate. We must stand in solidarity with the mentally and physical­ly disabled. We must stand in solidarity with those who are sick with terminal or seriously debilitating illnesses. We must stand in solidarity with all in whom the sanctity of life is denied. 
We are, all of us, called by God to stand together against death, and to stand together for life. In his 1995 encyclical, Evangelium Vitae, Pope John Paul II reminds us: 
We are facing an enormous and dramatic clash between good and evil, death and life, the "culture of death" and the "culture of life." We find ourselves not only "faced with" but necessarily "in the midst of" this conflict: we are all involved and we all share in it, with the inescapable responsibility of choosing to be uncondi­tionally pro-life. 
It is no small matter. It is truly all that matters! If we are to be truly pro-life, how~ver, we do not stand only with the unborn, the prisoner, the infirm and the elderly. We must, as believers in the Lord Jesus, stand together for one another. We must acclaim and affirm the life in ourselves, and in others! It is for us to see and nur­ture and support the life in all those around us. We must stand with our enemies as well as our friends. We must stand with our room­mates, with our professors, with our families, and with all men and women, regardless of race, creed, nationality, or orientation. 
John Paul II urges each of us, in Evangelium Vitae, to adopt a new scale of values -to give primacy to being rather than having, to persons rather than things. "This renewed life-style," he tells us, "involves a passing from indifference to concern for others, from rejection to acceptance of them." Together, says the Holy Father, "we sense our duty to preach the Gospel of Life, to celebrate it in the Liturgy and in our whole existence, and to serve it" through "programs and struc­tures which support and promote life". As Christians, we are people of life. Now, more than ever, we are called to li.ve what we profess! 
(j 
a 
~ 
~ b ~ 
~ ~ ~ 
~ 
a ~ 
~ 
~ 
• 
• • 
-
....,. 
(DMPUSl'v11NISTRY 
r--~­
! page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 30, 1999 
============================================================================================================= 
I NATIONAL l..€AGUE NFL 1-Glanville hits 200, Mims assaults man for tacos
j 
plated yet," he said. the Chargers organization and 
I leads Phillies to win 
Associated Press 
Police are investigating a the fans, who he says have 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA 
Doug Glanville hit a three-run homAr, becoming the first Phillies player with 200 hits since Pete Hose in 1979, as Philadel­phia beat the Chicago Cubs 5-0 Wednesday night. 
Glanville 
.,. reached the 200-hit mark with his 11th homer of the season, off Micah Bowie (2­
7) in the fourth. Glanville is the first Phillies' right-handed hat­ter to reach the mark since Dave Cash had an NL-leading 213 in 1975. Rose, a switch-hit­ter and baseball's career hits leader. had 208 in 1979. 
Sammy Sosa was 1-for-4 with a single and two strikeouts, leaving him with 62 homers. He fell one behind Mark McGwire, who took over the major league lead by hitting two homers in St. Louis' doubleheader against San Diego. 
Phillies starter Carlton Loewer, making his first start since June 5 after coming back from a stress fracture in his right humerus bone, pitched four scoreless innings. Loewer allowed three hits, walked one and struck out two. 
Billy Brewer (1-1) pitched two hitless innings in relief, walking one and striking out four. Chad Ogea pitched one inning, and Steve Montgomery pitched two to complete the shutout. 
With two runners on, Glanville hit Micah Bowie's first pitch to left, giving the Phillies a 5-0 lead. He rounded the bases with a huge smile, was greeted by a crowd of teammates on the dugout steps and rewarded a small crowd with a curtain call. 
Glanville, who was 2-for-4, got his 201st hit with a single in the ninth off Rick Aguilera. 
Glanville entered the game trailing Arizona's Luis Gonzalez by two hits for the NL lead. 
Marlon Anderson hit a one­out double in the fourth and was balked to second by Bowie. 
Desi Relaford walked and went to second on a wild pitch before Anderson scored on another wild pitch for a 2-0 lead. Pinch-hitter Wendell Magee walked, setting up Glanville's homer. 
The Phillies got a run in the third on an RBI infield single by Mike Lieberthal. 
Anderson, batting .361 in the last 10 games, made a sensa­tional play at second base in the fourth. Fully extended as he dived toward ·first, Anderson caught Mark Grace's smash, rolled over twice and threw him out. 
Bowie allowed five runs and eight hits in 3 2-3 innings. 
Pirates 7, Brewers 5 
Two pitchers thrown on base­ball's scrap heap a few months ago capped their comeback sea­sons with strong starts. 
Pittsburgh's Todd Ritchie won for the fifth time in six games as the Pirates beat the Milwaukee Brewers 7-5 in the first game of a doubleheader Wednesday. 
Late-season acquisition Jason Here got his second win in a Brewers' uniform with six strong innings as Milwaukee beat Pittsburgh 5-2 in the sec­ond game. 

Milwaukee has won 11 of its last 16 games and has won eight of 11 against Pittsburgh this season. The Brewers 172­
85) must go 3-1 in their final four games to better last sea­son's record. 
The Pirates, who went 5-22 last September, won their 11th game of the month and 77th of the year. With three wins in their final four games, the Pirates (77 -80) would have their best record since 1992, when they went 96-66. 
Bob Wickman pitched the ninth inning of the second game for his Brewers'-record 37th save, one more than Doug Jones' total two years ago. 
Ritchie had never been a major league starter until this season, but he leads the Pirates in wins and has won three straight starts. The former Twins farmhand was a non-ros­ter invitee to spring training and wasn't expected to make the big-league roster, but he got a spot in the Pirates' bullpen and pitched his way into the rota­tion. 
He's sorry to see the Pirates' up-and-down season end. 
"When you're on a roll like that, you wish you could keep it going," Ritchie said. "I feel­tremendously confident right now." 
Ritchie (15-9), who struck out a career-high 10 batters in his last start, fanned six Brewers and allowed seven hits in six innings while working briskly in front of a sparse crowd at County Stadium. Lamont said the start was likelv the last for Ritchie in his surprising season. 
"He's been fantastic," Pittsburgh manager Gene Lamont said. "l don't see any reason why he won't continue on next year." 
Kevin Young hit a three-run homer in the first inning of the game. Adrian Brown and Warren Morris also homered for Pittsburgh in a game postponed from Tuesday because of rain. 
Jose Valentin hit two triples and a double for the Brewers. Mike Williams gave up a leadoff homer to Lou Collier in the ninth, but got the final three outs for his 23rd save. 
Pittsburgh's first three batters singled off Steve Woodard (11-8) and the fourth, Young, hit his 25th home run of the season to dead-center field. Woodard lost his third straight decision and hasn't won since July 16. 
In the second game, Jeff Cirillo and Alex Ochoa hit back­to-back home runs in the first inning, and Bere (5-0) made them stand up. He gave up six hits and one earned run in six innings, striking out six. 
Bere was released by the Reds on Aug. 4 despite a 3-0 record and signed to a minor-league contract by Milwaukee. on Aug, 
13. He was 2-0 with Triple-A Louisville before being recalled three weeks ago. 
Lyle Mouton, another late­season callup by the Brewers, hit a 420-foot homer to left field in the third inning, and Collier added an RBI double in the fifth. Pirates starter Chris Peters (5­
4} gave up five hits -three of them homers -and four walks in 2 1-3 innings. 
SAN DIEGO 
Chagrined Chris Mims faces discipline from the San Diego Chargers for allegedly assaulting a man and taking his tacos during a confronta­tion outside a fast-food restaurant. 
The Chargers have made a big public relations push in recent months, so they weren't pleased to see the defensive end's name in a police report. 
"Basically, our club in no way condones any behavior that seems to have occurred here," coach Mike Riley said after practice Wednesday. 'Tm very disappointed in that. Al the same time, we've dealt with Chris behind our doors and we're making every move to get this thing straightened away." 
Riley said he had imposed some type of discipline, but he wouldn't give specifics. 
"Actually, it's not all com­23-year-old man's claim lhal the 300-pound Mims shoved his face into a wall, stole his tacos and struck him twice with a belt early Monday morning, some 10 hours after the Chargers lost their home opener to Indianapolis. 
Michael McKinney told police he was attacked arter he made a comment about Mims getting out of a limo and then urinating in the parking lot at a downtown Del Taco. 
Mims seemed contrite and embarrassed when he talked with reporters Wednesday. 
'This is the wo'rst thing that probably ever happened to me," he said, noting all the media attention to the inci­dent. "I've just got to deal with it." 
He wouldn't discuss the specifics of what happened, citing legal concerns. 'Tm just sorry that this all happened," Mims said. 
He said he wanted to apolo­gize to his family, teammates, been supportive during his two stints as a Charger. 
Mims wouldn't say if he'd apologiLed to McKinney. Ile also wouldn't comment on whether he'd talked to police. who say Mims left the scene before officers arrived. 
McKinney said Wednesday that he hadn't heard from Mims or anyone else with the Chargers. 
Mims spent about 15 min­utes on the sideline Wednesday speaking with the team's pastor, Shawn Mitchell. The Chargers' first­round drart pick in 1992, Mims was released in April 1997. He rejoined in June 1998 and has been a reserve ever since. 
Asked if he'd been fined, Mims said: 'Tl! find out." 
Meanwhile, Ryan Leaf had a good day. Now the third­string quarterback, Leaf threw for the first time since undergoing surgery on his right shoulder on July 26. 
~CUTIIEIEAIIIHAflG ON DOORKNOB __ •• ,. •••.....•• ______ -----__ --• 
I I I I 
I 
. I 
I I I I I I 

Dear _____ the grouch, 
There's something you should know. In the morning, you are unbelievably grumpy. And that's putting it very, very nicely. 
So, because I like you, may I suggest you start the day with a GROISSAN'WICH" from BURGER KING'. It's filled with mouthwatering sausage, egg and cheese. And that should make anyone less crankl' Even you. Ifitdoesn't, then we're on to Plan B. And you don't want to know Plan B. 
Sincerely, ______ 

THE DELICIOUS CROISSAN'WICH/ 
The Huddle • L.aFafu,e Student Center 

It just tastes better.­
I 
I 
~--~--~--------------------------------------------~ 
www.burgerking.com LIMITED TIME ONLY. PRICE AND PAR11CIPATION MAY VARY. DURING BREAKFAST HOURS ONLY. 
Clfl!llll'JlGIRIOl«lOOAAJWION.l!UIIGEflKNJCOOPORAIIII~ Mll«:W'll\lEUCEHSEfCfM"IT JUSTlASTrSl!ITTEJl"-ANOM IGISTEIIEDllURGER~NG.CllOISSANWl:HIKJBUlt-lOGOTIWlE>-WlKS. 
Thursday, September 30, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
Chorney 
continued from page 24 
wraith Lhat profossional sports offer. llow else can you explain lhn astounding rntn of under­classmnn leaving college t)arly ,uid m1tnri11g Lhe dra.l't? 
Now Cl'J'tainly not all athlPtns foci this way. In no way, should anymw think that all athlntns an• "mindless jocks" incapabln and 111ld1isnrving or altl'nding t:ollngn. Many sincnrnly dnsirn a11 l'ducation and arl' apprecia­tive ol' Li1P mlucational opportu­nities tlrn! llwir at.hlPtic prownss allows tlwrn. It is thl\,a! athletPs that collng11 ath­l1•tics should rn!Pr lo, not tlwir rouII l1:rparts. 
Il11wPVPr, f'l•w athlntns have tlw ability to jump straight l'rnm high school to t.h,: profi~s­siona I ranks. This forcns many atllldt•s to attnnd t·ollt•gt•. using it as an irHt•rnwdiary l?ntweon tlw two lt·vPl.s. /\ minor h\agtw syskm. sirnilar to tlwt hasdmll 11mploys, would allow thnst> athlPll's to t·ompPtl' at a l!Wl'I similar to LhaL of the NCAr\'s 
and lw moiwtarily compensat­nd f'rn· Uwil' sm·vin!s. 
l\lany ol' tlw acadrnnir indis­tTl'tions and llw ill<'gal acccp­ta11w or 1110m·y could bn avoid­
,~d by simply offering the ath­
letes that don't want to be in college anothel' option. By eliminating those that don't 
value the education and con­sider their scholarships ade­quate compPnsation for their services, college athlel.ics would rid itself of'many oftlrn 
athletes that succumb to the 
temptations of illegal booster gifts and or chf'ating in the classroom. 
Onc11 again, .considnr base­ball. Thri scandals involVPd in college baseLall am far fewer than those that abound in col­loge football and baskntball. l'erhaps this succossf'ul avoid­iu1c(~ has to do with gPtting rid or athlr.tcs that don't want to lm in school. Tlmy must bfl doing sonwthing right. 
The establishmcnL of a minor leagu1i syst1m1 would not mean Urn nlimination of collngn ath­letlcs. It would .~till Im an option f'or !hmm athletes who do sinc<'rnly d<)sire an educa­tion. Yns, the quality of play might bn slightly lower, but it should not. affoct much of a col­lege's fan support base. Many fans dioosc thdr loams hccauso of' long-lasting loyal­tips to that school, not thf' qual­ity of' its playnrs. If the quality was lowtirnd across tlw board, furlhPrmnrn. the com1wtitivc nature of college athletics 
would remain. The excitement ol'fall Saturdays and March 
Madness would still live on. 
Neither the athletes that ac:tually want to be in college nor the institutions themselves sl1ould be wrongfully stereo­typed by the American public simply because those that don't want to br; in college misbe­have. 
They deserve a better repu­tation, as do the institutions that thny attend. A minor league system would at least provide an attractive opt.ion for those that don't value the edu­cation they are receiving. Perhaps the elimination or tlrnsc athletes would decrease the shameful scandals that.are bnroming so common in col­lt!gti sports. 
Jeff Gordon of tlrn St. Louis Post-Dispatch once eommrnt­ed. "CollHge sµorts should belong to kids who cherish the campus atmosphere and a cliane!l to further their educa­tion. For thosf' who just want lo play, developmental leagues should await them." I tend to agrrw. 
ThP 11iews PXpressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Obsen•er. 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Grubbs naIDed player of week 
Special 10 The Observer 
NotrP Damn snnior /\ll­i\mnrit:an women's soccer cap­Lain fon c;rubb has b1\(\ll namPd Big l•:ast ConfonrncP defonsive playt>r of tlw WPPk aftnr scoring twin~ in NotrP Oanw's wins at SPlon l!all and Hutgnrs last 
\.V(~('Kl'llCI. 
Tlw 11) 1)8 llig btst dnfonsive player of the year and 1999 Big East prnseason defensive play­11r or tlw year converted a pair of' frne kicks for goals in tpe 4-2 win at Seton llall and the 4-0 win at Rutgers. 
Against Hutgers. Grubb. cur­rnnlly fourth in team scoring with three goals and two assists for eight points, helped thn dcfonse hold Lim Scarlet Knights to four shots without a shot on goal. The derensive­player-of-the-wcek honor is the second for the Irish in 1999 after Kara Brown earned the m.vard on Sept. 13. 
This marks the sixth time in her earner that Grubb has been namnd Big East defensive play­er of tho week after three selec­tions in 1998 and two in 1997. 

i 11 
0 0 
Pulliam Journalism Fellowships 

Graduating college seniors are invited to apply for the 27th annual Pulliam Journalism Fellowships. We will grant I 0-week summer internships to 20 journalism or liberal arts majors in the August 1999-June 2000 graduating classes. 
Previous internship or part-time experience at a newspaper is desired, or other demonstration of writing and reporting ability. Those who go through the Fellowships often find new professional opportunities opening up at other newspapers during and after the program. Wmners will receive a $5,500 stipend and will work at either The Indianapolis Star or The Arizona Republic. Opportunities for online training are available, along with reporting experience at our major metropolitan daily newspapers. 
Early-admissions application postmark deadline is Nov. 15, 1999. By Dec. 15, 1999, up to five early-admissions winners will be notified. All other entries must be postmarked by March l, 2000, and will be consid­ered with remaining early-admissions applicants. Successful applicants will be notified on or before April I, 2000, and will be asked to respond immediately wilh a letter of intent, at which time one-third of the cash grant will be mailed to the Fellow. 
To request an application packet, visit our Web site, e-mail us or write: 

Russell B. Pulliam 
Pulliam Fellowships Director 
· Indianapolis Newspapers 
Wi:h ,itc: \\ \\\\.,lam. \i ,.,·11111/p.tf P.O. Box 145 
E-m,1il: pul11.1111(a, .,rn~'I\ ,.,·um 
Indianapolis, IN 46206-0145 
BOXING 
House debates bill for boxing reforms 
Associatcd Press King also has been the target 
or numerous lawsuits from box-
WASHINGTON ers. 
The biggest name in boxing The legislation, which now· promotion wasn't on Capitol can be positioned for a vote in Hill but still was a significan.t the full llouse, is intHnded to factor Wednesday as a Housp, protect young fighters from 
committee voted to crack down exploitation by eliminating so­on the l1ght business. called coercive contracts. in 
HPap. Bobby Rush. D-111., sug­which a boxer is rnquirnd to gested the legisla­sign away lion was intended 
"J think that this bill is ~l~~~ts1~o~;:~,~~~
to target Don King, a larger­primarily aimed at one or grant rights 
to another pro­
lhun-life person­particular promoter." 
ality who for moil)r as a con­thn~e decades dition of' getting who has promot­Bobby Rush to f'ight a par­ed fights for U.S. Rep., D -Ill. ticular bout. 
everyone from 
Muhammad Ali to Mike Tyson. 
Another congressman said Im want('d to toughen the IHgisla­Lion by having it ban felons from involvement in boxing, but opted not to, because of King. 
Heµ. Ralph Hall, D-Texas, said he tried to move a no­felons amendment to an earlier boxing bill but it became too controversial because people called it the "King amend­ment." 
Hall said that wasn't the intent, even though "I have mixed feelings about Mr. King." 
Hush quickly disagreed. "I think that this bill is primarily aimed at one particular pro­moter," Hush said. "I think we're setting a precedent that we will come back to regret." 
A King spokesman did not immediately return a call seek­ing comment about the legisla­tion. 
Before becoming a major 
force  in  boxing,  King  was  
involved in two killings.  
In 1954, King killed  a  man  

who was robbing a numbers house he operated in Cleveland, and it was ruled justifiable homicide. 
In 19(i7, he was convictml of second-degree murd<u for stomping to death a rival num­lrnrs runner. The charge later was reduced to manslaughter. lie served nearly four years in prison and was pardoned in 1983 by then-Ohio Gov. James Rhodes. 
It also 
includes conflict of internst rules and would require promoters, ju<lgcs. ref­erees and sanctioning bodies to fill out f'inancial disclosurn forms. 
In respons,-) to the outcry over the Evander llolyfield-Lennox Lewis heavyweight title fight March 13, the measure would require all boxing referees and judges to be certified and approved by state boxing com­missions. King was in New York with both fighters Wednesday to help hype the rematch set for Nov. 13 at Las Vegas. 
It addition, the bill specifies that boxers can be suspended for unsportsmanlike conduct. 
The llouse Commerce Committee deleted language limiting fighters' contracts to five years, but voted down Hush when he tried to delete crimi­nal penalties for those who vio­late financial disclosure and conmet or internst rules. 
The bill is named in honor or Ali, and the former heavy­weight champion tnstified in favor or it in the Scrnatn. 
Snn. John McCain. H-/\riz., wrote anotlrnr version of thn hill. which passed tho Senate unanimously. McCain's bill was morn far-rnachi11g; it included restrictions on light broadcast­ers, who would not bn not allowed to have a di met or indi­rnct financial interest in a boxer's manager or managn­mont company. 
Irish Connection 
525 N. Hill St. 233-8505 
Alcohol-Free Young Adult Dance Nite Club 18+ Presents 
Phatt Thursday's College Night 
,IF DANCING IS YOUR THING THEN /CONN ON THURSDAY'S IS YOUR PLACE!! 
Some of ND's and Saint Mary's hottest student DJ's playing your favorite dance music. 
Enter the ICONN Thursday night dance contest and win cash prizes. Audience determines winners -so bring your friends to cheer for you. 
Bring your favorite dance CD's or tapes and we will play it; hip-hop, retro, salsa, country, disco, swing, etc. 
Doors open at 8:00 p.m. Free admission before 10:00 with your Student ID. 
Holcl:thGltspeci;::ikoff-campus, dorm, club, or class party at IGONNCall 233·8505 tor more info. 
-
-
.,... 
... 
....... 
-
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 30, 1999 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL 
Lewis defeates Lyons for first victory of the season 
By JASON KROMPINGER 
Sports Writer 
Lewis vs. Lyons 
In a back-and-forth affair Tuesday night at Stepan Field. the Lewis Chicks tallied their lirst win of the season in a 12-6 victory over the Lions of Lyons. 
The first half was tilled with turnovers. Lyons had the first possession of the game. On their third play. a pass was picked off and the ball returned all the way to the their 25-yard line. Lewis quarterback Rachel ~lahoney led her team to a first down at the 15-yard line. but then she was then picked off in the end zone. and the ball was rnturned to tlu~ Lyon's 10-yard line. 
All that followed was moro turnovers and more failed dri­ves until Lyons took control of the ball late in the half and promptly had a 50-yard touch­down pass to Lisa Thomas. The conversion !'ailed, and Lyons went into the locker room with a 6-0 lead at the half. 
After Lyons sputtered on their 
opening drive of the second 
half, Mahoney led the Chicks to 
a first down after she ran one 
keeper after another. After a 
pass-interference call on Lyons 
brought Lewis down to the 5­
yard line, the Chicks tied the 
game with an option run by 
running back Betsy Fordyce. 
On their next possession, Lyons took the ball deep into Lewis territory and it looked certain that they would score to take the game, as time was run­ning low. On a first-down pass with one minute remaining in the game, Lewis defensive back Anne LaBelle intercepted and returned the ball untouched for a Chicks score to take the lead permanently. 
"I was really pleased with my 
team's performance especially 
considering the slick conditions 
we were playing in," team cap­tain Beth Wild said. "Our morale will be really up for our next game." 
Walsh vs. Welsh Family 
Welsh Family used a variety of talented, quick receivers and old-fashioned tenacity on defense to pull away with· a 12­6 win over Walsh on Tuesday night at Stepan Field. 
Welsh had Walsh reeling after the third play. as quarterback Stephanie Eden struck on an 80-yard touchdown pass to take an early 6-0 lead. Walsh 
. seemed as if it would rebound from the quick score as they picked up a first down on their first play from the line of scrim­mage on an option run. 
But two incompletions and a botched snap later, Walsh found themselves punting. After a sub­sequent sloppy Welsh drive, halftime arrived with Welsh still leading 6-0. 
The second half started with more uf the same inconsistent play for both teams. That wouldn't last long, however. as Walsh went three and out on their subsequent possession. 
Walsh was intercepted on fourth down of their next drive, but the big blow for the Wild Women came when they inter­cepted a Welsh pass on second down of their next drive and brought it all the way back for the score. This tied tie the game at 6 with 40 seconds left in the fourth quarter. 
The tie would last all of five seconds. With another brilliant pass play and speed from their receiver, Welsh struck with an 80-yard touchdown play on their first play from scrimmage after the Walsh TD. The conver­sion failed, but Walsh's fate was sealed. 
Pasquerilla East vs. Pasquerilla West 
Pasquerilla West came into the game against the powerful 

-
Please recycle The Observer 
Notre Dame Chapter Association for Computing Machinery 
Lecture 
Java Programming for the Internet 
by Dr. Barrett Bryant Univ. of Alabama -Birmingham 
Thursday, September 30, 4 p.m. 119 DeBartolo 
offense of Pasquerilla East led by athletic quarterback Liz Plummer full of energy. But their spirit was soon deflated after Plummer and the Pyros ran circles a.round the Purple Weasels and emerged with a 15-0 victory Tuesday night. 
PE's offense was actually well d1-ifended in the early-goings by PW's pesky defense led by mid­dle linebacker Kathleen Warin. Plummer pkked up a first down on PE's first possession after a nimble QB sneak, but was then held tough by P-Dub's defense on the next three plays. 

However, on fourth down, the Purple Weasels were hurt with a costly interforence penalty. Plummer immediately capital­ized and scored on a keeper. The Pyros converted on their PAT to give them a 7-0 lead. 
Refusing to back down after the score, the Purple Weasels offense, !Ad bv Andy Will, responded with. a quick first­down completiun to captain Kori Yelle on their first play. On third down. Will showed off some athletic scrambling capa­b i Ii ties and bagged another first. But after three consecutive incompletions, PW was forced to punt. 
After PE went three-and-out on their next possession and PW went four-and-out, the Pyros had another scoring drive. Plummer completed a bomb to get her team deep into PW ter­ritory, then was helped out by a PW interference penalty near the end of the half. 
On the half's last play, Plummer completed a touch­down pass to give her team a 13-0 lead. The Pyros' final score came as a safety on the last play of this rain-soaked washout. 

COME JOIN US FOR FREE DINNER AND DISCUSSION When: Wednesday, October 6, 1999 Where: Center for Social Concerns 
Sponsored by: OMSA R.S.V.P. 1-6841 


Thursday, September 30, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
Offense 
continued from page 24 
and Mary with 21 years of collegn coaching exporiouce, rrnarly all on offense. 
l;ndor Hogcrs, Syracuse ranked third nationally last yoar in scoring, ancl was among the lop 25 in Lhe country in rushing and total offonso. Syracuse also won lhn Big Ei1st chamµionship the past two seasons. 
I!is star player as a coach was quarturback Donovan McNabb. McNabh was the second overall pick in this year's NFL draft. and was namnd Big East of!'Hnsive player of tho year the past thrn,• seasons. 
Although Notre Dame doosn't have the same expe­ri1•11 cf' at quarterbark in .farious .Jackson and back-up Arnaz Battle. Hogers thinks the Irish riuarterbacks have possibilities. 
• 
Grilled Burgers, Brats, and Other Specialties 
Cold Beverages & Spirits 
60" Screen TV's 
Fully Enclosed Tent 
ext to the N.D. Bookstore. 219-631-2000 
.-------------------------------------­

Spectrum Sports Sale 
"Officially Licensed" 

Notre Dame Products 
At 
Logan Center 
-Super Special­**All ND T-Shirts $9.95 (Reg. $24.95) With Purchase** 
Special
Other Football Weekend Specials Was 
Select ND Sweatshirts .....................................,................,....................................$49.95 $24.95 Champion ND Lightweight Jacket ........... , ........................................ $59.95 $24.95 Selected ND Hats...,....................................,.......................................................... $24.95 $ 9.95 ND Rain Ponchos ............................................................ $19.95 $14.95 
(Other Rain Gear Available) -Check Out the Great Selection of Notre Dame Products at the Logan Center-
Friday Oct. 1st, 1:30 p.m.-6:30 p.m. Saturday Oct. 2nd, 8:00 a.m. until 1:30 p.m. 
~Logan Center located south of the stadium at the comer of Eddy and Juniper *Free gifts to first 50 purchases-compliments of Spectrum Sports (309-786-9318) 
"Sometimes Jarious tries to do too much; he's got to let the game come to him. 
He's a great leader, though,''
Rogers said. "We've got to get Arnaz into the game sometimes for experience." Senior R.aki :1/elson said Hogers ha~ made the offense a lot mom diverse, both by using a variety of plays and different players. "Our passing game is bet­ter as far as throwing deep goes," said Nelson, a flanker. "As f'ar as moving the ball, we' re doing that. We've just got to find a way to score when we're in the rnd zone and get rid of the turnovers. He's made a definite dif­ference in our offense as far as big-play capability and passing downfiflld. We're doing a good job; we've just got to eliminate some mis­takes." In the first four games of the season. Notre Dame has averaged 26.5 points per game, four more than the teams it has played. It has 
gained 1598 total yards on offense, compared to 1496 by its opponents. However, its turnovers and pour coaching calls have left ihe Irish on the losing end of a 1-3 record, 
Onn questionable offensive decision by Notre Dame so far was that of punting on a fourth-aud-1 with just over three minutes left in a losing venture against Michigan State. 
"Hindsight's 20-20," said Rogers. 
Rogers replaced former Irish offensive coordinator Jim Colletto, who is working • as an assist.ant coach in the NFL for the Baltimore Havens, Colletta received a lot of flak from fans who doubted his capabilities. It has yet to be seen if Hogers will satisfy the high expecta­tions of Irish onlookers. 
JEFF HSUfThe Observer 
"We have the capability to 
Tailback Tony Driver, shown against Kansas, leads offensive coordi­
make some big plays; unfor­
nator Kevin Roger's new offense. Driver returns this week against
tunately, we're making as many mistakes right now," Oklahoma, trying to boost the Irish into the college football polls. 
Rogers said. 

Coaching 
continued from page 24 
coaching." 
The reasons for this lack of stability is that the athletic staff at Saint Mary's is very over­worked, according to 
Kachmarik. 
"The hard part of retain­ing coaches is that it is a part-time posi­t i o n , " Kachmarik said, "We have to be thankful they're here. They all also have full time jobs." 
This is not a new trend in 
the Belles' athletics. The school 
has a history of personnel filling
too many roles .in the athletic program. Jan Travis, the athletic director who preceded Kachmarik served as not only the director, but also served as an assistant softball coach, of'ten traveling with the team, and Jini Cook, last year's assistant athlet­ic director, also served as the head swimming coach. Jo Ann Nestor, the athletic director from 1984 to 1993 served not only as 
"Need insurance 
for your wheels?" 
Being in good hands is 
the only place to be=­

"The hard part of time jobs as 
retaining coaches is that well as coach­ing their
it is a part-time position. 
respective
We have to be thankful 
sports. This left they're here .. They all the coaches in charge of
also have full-time jobs." 
scheduling, 
recruiting and 
Lynn Kachmarik coaching in 
athletic director addition to ful­
the director, but as head tennis r,oach and filled in as basketball coach during a season when the original coach took ill. 
"We do have a very r,aring and dedicated staff," Kachrriarik said. "For a part time staff, I'm impressed with effort they make in reaching out to the students." 
There are no full-time coaches hired at Saint Mary's, so all of 
the coaches 
maintain full­
fil Iing the responsibilities of their f'ull-time job. 
Kachmarik hopes that this will be one of the many things that will be changing in the future. In addition to the recruiting coordi­nator who was hired in 1996, Kachmarik hopes that full time coaches can be added to the payroll of athletics. 
"Now that we're part of the MIAA, facilities is not the orily focus," she said. "I would really like to include a full-time coach­ing staff." 
Leader/Manager. 
Full-time college students or graduates. $31 K starting salary. summer Interns available. 
U.S.M.C. Officer Programs. 
Contact Lt. Simek at 
765-743-8359. 
BOOK SEARCH 
• 
Used, rare and out-of-print books 

• 
Initial cost of $7..0<1 

• 
Nationafiy • circulated ad 

• 
Success rate of 50% 

• 
Time Required: 2 months 


ERASMUS BOOKS 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232-8444 
,,,. 
.... 
"' 


r 
page 22 
VOLLEYBALL 
.. 
Belles drop conference match, 3-1 
By KATIE McVOY Byline Title 
The Saint Mary's volleybalt team dropped its match \,Vodnesday night to Ilope College 3-1. Tim Belles of Saint Mary's and the Flying Dutch of Hope both came into the game with league records of 3-0. It was Saint Mary's inability to perfrom fundamentals that decided the match. 
"I think we lacked our basic skills,"head coach Randa Shields said. "When you can't pass and you can't servP, you can't score points." 
The Belles led 4-1 in lhe firsi match. But Hope took the next 7 points and stayed in control of the game. Hope won the game 1Nilh a final score of 15-7. 
The second game was a much closer match. The Bolles again led early in the game. However, Hope came on to score several unanswered points again, and took ihe game 15-12. 
Saint Mary's won the third game with a strong comeback. Hope opened the game by scoring 8 points against the Saint Mary's. The score was 10-2 when the Belles started a rally that would lead them to victory. Mary Radovich served during the Belles 9-point run. The Belles won the game 16-14 in a very intense match. 
Saint Mary's lost its focus again dur­ing the fourth game. "The difference between the third
,. . 
game and the rest,"Shields said, "was that we stayed focused. We didn't do that in the other games." 
Hope won the fourth and final game 15-3. 
Jayne Ozbolt led the team offensively and defensively with 10 digs, 2 aces, 4 blocks, and 6 kills. Supporting Ozbolt on defense were Angie Meyer 1Nilh 10 digs, and Jolie LeBeau with 4 blocks. Assisting on offense were Victoria Btucko with 2 aces, Emily Nihill 1Nith 6 kills, Suzann~ Martin with 21 assists, and Jaime Dineen with 18 assists. 
The Belles want to work on focus and basic skills for the rest of the season. 
"We need to work on staying focused the whole time and talking consistent­ly," said Senior Agnes Bill. 
Teammate Ann Bill added, "We need to work on serving." 
Saint Mary's will play Albion College and Olivet College Friday and Saturday at the DcPauw tournament. 
CAR TROUBLE??? call 
Peppers Imports 
287-4920 
Foreign and Domestic 
ASE CERTIFIED LOW TOWING RATES FREE PICK UP AND DELIVERY 
Located at: 77 4 Lincoln Way East South Bend 
The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 30, 1999 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Notre Dame ends scoring drought 
By KERRY SMITH 
Spores Writer 
The spirited rendition of the Notre Dame fight song that echoed out of the men's soc­cer team after their match-up with Eastern Michigan signi­fied one thing -the end of a costly scoring drought. 
The squad's 5-2 routing of the Eagles Wednesday night· was accompanied by many firsts. It was the first time all s,~ason the Irish scored more than one goal in a single game. 
It was the first time head Coach Mike Berticelli could claim 100 wins with the Irish. and it was the first time Irish players Dustin Pridmore, Andreas Forstner, Jason Jorski and Andrew Aris knocked in goals this season. 
"lt's about time I scored," said Aris. "I've missed some opportunities lhis season so it feels good to put one away. Andy Forstner's goal that put us on top was huge, and it was Jorski's first goal ever. so we're celebrating." 
The definitive win over the Eagles comes after a tough first half of the season in which the Irish dropped three straight and suffered two shutout losses. 
With the win, the Irish even out their record at 4-4-1 and improve on their total num­ber of goals scored, moving from six to 11. 
The Eagles put much pres­sure on the Irish defense in the opening minutes of play, coming up with loose balls and capitalizing on many one-on-one situations to retain control. 
"They came on strong in the first 15 minutes," said Aris. "Defensively, we gave them too much time 
and space to play with the ball. But after that we closed 
• them down and played very well, especially in the sec­ond half." 
Pridmore opened up the Irish scoring bonanza 14 minutes, 37 seconds into the game. 
Forward Erich 

M>'S WEDNESDAY NIGHT DANG OUT 
Braun .initiated the play when his corner kick from the right side went long and wide. The Eagles deflected Lhe hall lo the midfield, but could not hold on lo it as defender Justin Rattcliffe stolfl the ball and made a leading pass to Braun. 
Pridmore, trailing the play, broke left, as Braun dribbled down the· right sideline. Drawing an Eastern Michigan defender and goalkeeper George Tomasso left, Braun dumped the ball to Pridmore, in fronL of the net for the quick touch-in, putting the Irish on top 1-0. · 
Eastern Michigan coun­tered several minutes 1.ater to even the score. Eagle mid­fielder Chris King capitalized on a one-on-one situation and slipped the ball into ihe net past Irish goalkeeper Gerick Short for the 1-1 tie. 
The second half brought four more Irish goals and proof that the squad had some offensive power behind it. 
Forstner put the Irish on top for good at 72 minutes into the game. 
Braun increased the Irish lead to 3-1 less than two min­utes later on a breaking play towards the goal. Taking advantage of a leading pass from Aris. 13raun dodged an Eagle defender for the easy shot from the top of the box. 
The Eagles made the game close four minutes later, when midfielder Jeff Schilt came up with the ball in the right corner and booted it past Short to bring the Eagles within one. 
The Eagles, despite height­ened offensive attempts for the rest of the half, could not come up with another goal and the Irish went on to score two more to secure the win. 
Any hope of an Eagle victo­ry was dashed with Notn~ Dame's fourth goal with less than three minutes remain­ing. The score came on a 20­yard Jorski blast off of a feed from Aris. Jorski's score is the first career goal for the senior forward. 
Aris knocked in a goal of his own to worsen the blow to the Eagles less than 30 sec­onds after Jorski's goal. 
The Irish win over the Eagles marks Berticelli's 100th win as head coach at Notre Dame. 
"Naturally, as a coach, I'm pleased and proud to be look­ing at 100 wins with the University of Notre Dame," Berticelli said Wednesday. "For me, it reflects a lot of wins which have involved every player who has played for me here. 
"It's most significant 
because every single player has had a part in this accom­plishment,'' he continued. "To be honest, it's just like wins 96, 98 and 52 -100 is just a number. But as a milestone, the 100 wins bring all the players and the games of the past together." 
Berticelli's 100th win took some time this season. With the offense back on track for 
•
the moment, the Irish hope to use the momentum provided by Wednesday's win as they look ahead to their match-up with Big East rival Syracuse on Saturday. 
"It's great to finally win one again," said Aris. "We've played well and even domi­nated in most of our games this season, but we just haven't been able to take advantage of a lot of our scor­ing chances and that's been 
frustrating. This is a huge win for us -a real morale booster." 
1 
l 
I 
'I
-
Thursday, September 30, 1999 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
TOM KEELEY JEFF BEAM
FOURTH AND INCHES A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD 
WU-I-, 1-i \S NOW "Z. [\. l-tEV, WA-TT A ~\NI.IT't::! rl-A.S 
pA.~f IV OF LXVI/ 
1t+I:-DA-1.J<'...E. IS i+s~~-.s ,11-1!. -nc..KE.1.S! O.i A, . OFFl'-l/;.\..1..-',' A [3u::,.'i -:t. 6U~ ::i:. Mus.r f+AV!i. t INKING. 
v£ Ar NoTRf o
HAD -r,+f,.l'(iN M'{ SAU.. /, ~ fOCKSi" AL.I.. /;-l-DNr.,f ' ,. ot-h --tr11:, fuN 
l~'\
' . 
To DA"(: AP.C.H ITE CTS 

BILL AMEND
Fox TROT 
\ A A
'ToU IM-1? VERY. 
50 ,ou WANT  1ESS1R.  HOW FAR CAN  NoT  BuT I'LL ALWAYS GlVE roo  Oorn TELL ME  IT0S ALL  
To Pl.A.Y  W1TH ALL MY  'YoU THRoW?  VER'!'.  MY BEST, S1R! 110 PERCENT.'  You'VE Bou&HT  I'VE GoT,  
GI\JARTERBACk,  HEART AND  I  I  ~O Tl-lAT'S WHAT REALLi'  INTo THAT SUNK.  SIFt  
EH,, Fox?  Soul, Sri.  HOW FAST CAN  NoT  COUNTS, Rr<,HT?  I  I  

I 
.... 
HOW ARE YOUR NoT So APV'ANTAGE'S: 
LEADERSHrP Sk'ILLS? 
Kt PS wH<' P.f'ALLY 1...1K1: c.01..uMNS. 
_J 
PISADVANTA<:af:5: A0'50LU1'tLy No LIFE, WI-IA1"SOE\/E'R. 
beam.1 @nd.edu 


EUGENIA LAST
CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS  25 Isle of Man  57 Drunk's tipoff  CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS  exaggerate, you can bet that someone  
residents  59 Plant and animal  DAY: Vincent Price, Isadora Duncan,  will argue with you. Be ready to  
1 Orchestra  28 Brought up  life  Henry Kissinger, Christopher Dodd,  defend yourself or apologize for act­ 
alternative  30 See 20-Across  60 Andrews of "The  Louis Gossett Jr., Christopher Lee  ing on hearsay instead of finding out  
5 Comment 32 Calif. neighbor around the deck? 33 Midpoint: Abbr. 10 Terrible~­34 On a roll 14 Last words? 35 See 20-Across 1sOpposite of sur and 54-Across 40Big­16 Four-letter word 41 Link17 Architect 42 Classified inits. Saarinen 43 See 54-Across1eCompany 46 Singer Mel and whose logo has namesakesa red "o" 49 Napoleon led 19 Cogitate one  Mod Squad" 61 Money writer Marshall-­62 "A house--a home" 63--Bator 64 The rich man in "Rich Man, Poor Man" 65 Some guard dogs, for short 66 Get better  Happy Birthday: Balance will be the key·to making this rather hectic year a successful one. The more orga­nized you are, the more time you will have to play and to pamper yourself. You will have plenty of options to choose from, but if you try to take on everything, you are likely to fall short of your expectations. Your numbers: 10, 16, 22, 31, 38, 46 ARIES (March 21-April 19): Get the work done if you don't want to face those waiting for you to live up to your end of the bargain. Disrup­tions in your home will surface if you have not spent enough time with  exactly what happened firsthand. 0000 LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Invite friends over rather than going out and painting the town. You'll make an impression, and you'll end up sav­ing yourself cash. If you need things done around the house, ask them to help.000 SCORPIO (Oct. 23--Nov. 21): Don't let your own insecurity cause friction between you and your mate. If you blame him or her wrongly, you proba­bly won't be forgiven easily. Think before you take action. 000 SAGITIARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 211:  
20 Noted director  so "Forget it!"  DOWN  family.000  Romantic opportunities will flourish  
who acted in 30-Across with 35-Across 23 Bud of baseball  52 ­Park. N.J. 54 Noted director who acted in 43-Across with  1 Loamy deposit 2Gooddog 3 Slimming device  TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Let your loved ones make their own choices and their own mistakes. To stand in their way will only cause bad feelings between you. 000  through travel or communication with people who have the same inter­ests as you. Dealing with foreigners could lead to a difference of opinion. 000  
24 Before, once  35-Across  4 Some English  GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your  CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19):  
students  friends will be unhappy if you let a  Get out and do things with friends or  
5"--Room" (Beach Boys hit)  new lover monopolize your time. You may be mesmerized by your compan­ion, but you mustn't forget the ones  lovers. This is a great day to expand your interests or to take day trips. You need to take your mind off your  
&Spent  who are always there for you. 000  work. All work and no play will ruin  
7 Shady alcove 8 Kind of heel  31 Gluck's "--ed  45 Terre's opposite  53 Successively  CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't close your eyes to a financial opportu­nity that comes your way. It may take  your love life. 0000 AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): It's time to lay your cards on the table  
9 Push, maybe  Euridice"  46 A lonely place,  55 Power stats  up some of your free time, but as long  and let your lover and your family  
10 Tabby's mate 11 Wisconsin city  33 29-Down role 35 Precious  so they say 47 Store, as fodder  56 Tanks 57 Certain camera,  as you take care of your domestic responsibilities, it will be worth it. 00000  know exactly how you feel and what your intentions are. Communication is the key. 00  
12 Exciting times in  36 Not permeated  48 Ad dressing?  for short  LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your emo­ PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You'll  
the N.I.T. 13--wolf  (with) 37Silly  51 Let-­ 58 Baseball's Brock  tional well-being will be upset by your lover. Do not jump to conclu­sions or take action that a>Uld be mis­ be sensitive to the comments made by those you love. Try not to take things to heart. Do your own thing and  
21 Plume source  38 1938 Physics  leading or to your detriment. You are  don't let the situation escalate into  
22Earlier 2&Braveone  Nobelist 39 Campaign asset  likely to hurt someone's feelings. 00 VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sepl. 22): If you  an irreversible set of circumstances. 00000  

Birthday Baby: Your bright cheery nature will attract a lot of attention
40 Support27Harden 
throughout your life. You will find it eaSy to get others to do things for you.
provider
291980Tony Your ability to learn and to let your thoughts be known will lead you down a winner 44Nigh prestigious pathway that will be admired bv others. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
-----~---------------------------------------------------------~---------­
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year D Enclosed is $45 for one semester Name --------------------------~­
Address 
------------------------~-­
City _______ State ___ Zip_____ 
Power in Numbers 
For the first time this season, the Irish men's-
soccer team scored more than one goal in a game. lifting them over Eastern 
Michigan, 5-2.
PORTS 
page 22 
O
THE 
page 24 BSERVER 
FOOTBALL 
Coach Rogers shakes up Irish offense 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Assistant Sports Editor 
The Irish have tried to diversify their offense this year with the addition of a new face on the coaching staff, offensive coordinator Kevin Rogers who hails from Syracuse. 
"The teams that are scouting us really have to be prepared for anything because they don't know what to expect," junior tailback Tony Driver said. "We're doing some trick plays that Notre Dame doesn't normally use a lot. Ile [Rogersl has brought the tailback out of the backfield a lot more and is putting the ball in the air a lot." 
Hogers spent the last eight seasons at Syracuse, and has tried to bring many cle­ments of Syracuse's offense to Notre Dame this season. The challenge has been implementing a whole new set of plays with an inexperienced squad. In the early going. the Irish have been plagued by untimely turnovers which have con­tributed to the team's three losses. 
"I came in with this plethora of things to do, and we were very limited at first," Rogers said. "Implementing what had accumulated over eight years is very diffi­cult to get done in a finite period of time, especially with a young crew. We've had some difficulty in the translation." 
Notre Dame had a lot of holes to fill on 
offense after losing a number of key veter­
ans to graduation. 
"If you look at our team player for play­
er. we're very limited in terms of experi­
ence," Rogers said. 
The team lost all-time leading rusher Autry Denson, receiver Malcolm Johnson. and four out of five offensive linemen Mike Rosenthal, Luke Petitgout, Tim Ridder and Jerry Wisne lo the NPL. 
Many of the Irish starters this year have 
little game experience, so one of Rogers' 
biggest problems has been getting young 
players to step up in a hurry. Irish who "I see us getting better by leaps and play-calling standpoint. It's unfortunate 
have been forced to leap into big roles this bounds," said Rogers, "but we turn the because we've kind of shot ourselves in 
season include redshirt freshman Jordan ball over at an alarming rate and we turn the foot a couple of times with turnovers, 
Black at starting offensive tackle, senior it over in the red zone." but I think everyone sees the long-range 
offensive guard Jim Jones with three Head coach Bob Davie expressed his potential of what he's brought," he said. 
games of college experience before this confidence in Rogers. "He's brought a lot Rogers is a 1974 graduate of William 
season. and redshirt freshman Julius of diversity to our offense, not only from a 
Jones at running back. formation standpoint, but also from a see OFFENSE/page 21 

SMC looks for full-time coaching staff 
rent coaches," Kachmarik said. junior runner Genevieve This is in addition to the new By MOLLY MCVOY "I definitely need to put my Yavello said. "He knows the athletic director and assistant Assistant Sports Editor vision and theirs together." history, the past runners and athletic director hired this year. 
The longest that a coach has the academic pressures at Saint Volleyball alone has gone 
As Saint Mary's athletics remained at Saint Mary's is 12 Mary's. Its great knowing he's through four coaches in the becomes a focus of the college's years Larry Szczechowski, the coming from such a strong past past 15 years. administration, coaching and current track coach, began at Saint Mary's." "I-laving coaches leave makes staffing must be at the center of coaching at Saint Mary's in the Aside from Szczechowski and it really hard for a team to the discussion. 1987-1988 season. This stabili­the track program, stability has bond and have stability," junior 
Coach retention has been an ty means a lot to athletes run­not been the trend in Belles' softball player Anne Senger
.. 
issue for the College in years ning for Szczechowski. athletics. The softball team had said. "It makes the team feel past and it is an issue athletic "It gives us a sense of security a coach leave in the middle of inadequate and it makes it director Lynn Kachmarik hopes and a sense of confidence last season, and volleyball, hard to perform at 100 percent to address. knowing that he's been a part swimming and soccer all have when you have inconsistent 
"I want to sit down with cur-of Saint Mary's for so long," new head coaches this season. see COACHING/page 21 

Thursday, September 30, 1999 
New league needed 
"Enough is enough and its time for a change," blared the music every time the Jato pro­fessional wrestler Owen Hart made his entrance t<1 the ring. Curiously, this is the Brian Churney only quote that came to mind On the Hot when I sat Corner down to tlm compult~r and read ESPN's report about Tcnncssep's 11nw-f'ound acade­mic fraud scandal. 
It used to be that scandals associated with college athletics reserved themselves for institu­tions like Florida State, Miami, North Carolina StatP and Oklahoma. In their relentless quests for athletic glory. tlwy would find morality in the way and casually discard it. With these scandals camp a popular view that thesti schools were not lit academic institutions. They were football or basket­ball schools unconcerned with integrity or academia. 
But now, scandals seem to appear everywhere. They no longer reserve themselves for these pagan schools that many believe care more about win­ning than winning the right way. In the last three years scandals have arisen at distin­guished academic institutions like Northwestern, Michigan and even the "Mecca of morali­ty," Notre Dame. 
In fact, scandals have become so commonplace that rarely a second look is given to ESPN coming out with breaking news on another college scandal. The prevalence of so many scandals and violations lend truth to the claim that "it's happening everywhere. It just a matter of who gets caught." 
What can be done about this seemingly endless barrage of scandals that has polluted col­lege athletics recently? The answer, l'm afraid, is neither as simple as an increase in the NCAA's policing or the severity in the punishments handed down. 
The solution requires a com­plete overhaul of the current college athletic system, espe­cially in the sports of football and basketball. One of the major contributing factors to these violations involves ath­letes who simply don't want to be in school. Too often athletes use their times at college as simply a springboard to the abounding opportunity for 
see CHURNEY/page 19 
.. 
Cross Country vs. Georgetown vs. Oklahoma Notre Dame Invicacional >j, Friday, 7:30 p.m. t..:~ Saturday, 1 :30 p.m. 
SPORTS • 
Friday, 2:15 p.m. 
ATA
... vs. Wifird Laurier Volleyball at Goshen College ~ Friday, 7:05 p.m. vs. West Virginia s~ Sunday, 2 p.rn. 
Friday, 8 p.m. 
GLANCE • 






