
Striking Out 
Sidelined 
Kevin Costner fails to drive "For the Love of 
Cal Rip ken turns in his uniform for the season, 
the Game" home at the box office. 
sidelined by oncoming back surgery . 
page 15 
page 16 

THE 

VOL XXXIII NO. 22 HTTP://OBSERVER.N D.EDU 


Up in smoke 
Saint Marys students respond to a proposal to make campus smoke-free 

By NICOLE HADDAD News Writer 
By the summer of 2000, Saint Mary's is hoping to kick some real butt -ciga­rette butts, that is. 
A task force. headed by the department of Health Services and the Administrative Counsel of the College, is working to make Saint Mary's a smoke­free campus. 
The task force is expected to draft a proposal by January 2000, and enact it by summer of 2000. 
"Tobacco companies are advertising for young women," said Karen Ristau, vice president and dean of faculty. "It's for our own health." 
Since the formation of the task force, the committee has collected information regarding the use of nico­tine and smoking. After attending seminars geared toward a smoke-free Indiana, it is hoping to make Saint Mary's students "take a healthy initiative to promote a healthy campus," according to Linda Timm, vice president of student affairs. 
"It's how we do this, not whether we do this," said Judy Kenney, director of Health Services. 
The committee received between 20 and 25 e-mail responses which have all been positive, however, more responses from stu­dent smokers is needed. 
Junior Christine Draper, a smoker, disagrees with the proposal. 
"Higher education is sup­posed to prove an opportu­nity in an environ-

Thursday 

SEPTEMBER 23, 1999 
rooms non-smoking, but it's important that we have somewhere to go in the winter." 
Other students said that an all-campus no-policy would be infringing on their rights. 
"It's taking away from students' rights to be able to smoke, even though they're over the age of 18," said freshman Jessica White. 
"I think making our cam­
p u s 
smoke­

ment to "They should make it a free is 
cultivate just as
dry campus before they 
cognitive bad as 
thinking make it non-smoking." discrimi­skills and nating on freedom race
Jennifer Brown 

of choice because
freshman

and will," it's not she said. illegal," "I think it freshman is wrong for an institution Jennifer Brown said. "If to eliminate a choice smok­you're over 21, you're ers gained on the birth of a · allowed to drink in your legal age." room. What's the difference 
Many student smokers between that and smoking? were concerned with having They should make it a dry to smoke outdoors during campus before they make it the winter months. non-smoking." 
"There are so many peo­Many students, primarily ple who smoke," sophomore non-smokers, agreed that Tricia Moore said. "It is fine if they want to make the 
see SMOKE/page 4 

STUDENT SENATE 


Senate debates ND Video funds 
By FINN PRESSLY A.sistam News Editor 
The purpose of yesterday's Student Senate was to approve the nomination for the NO Video manager. However, the routine mneting developed into a heated dnbatn concerning, among other things. the finan­cial feasibility of Nil Video. 
"ls there any plan ... to improve thfl busirwss?" asked Knott senator Ed Foy, citing the low number of' students that use ND Video. 
Student body trnasurer .lanws .Jesse nxplainud that tlw cost of' supplying new rnlmises is of'Lnn prohibitively high for such a small operation. rnn!{­ing sommvlwrn around $180 l'or rental. 
"We'rn just looking lo gel the name out.'~ he said. "[Stud1mlc;I 
don't  have  tu  drive  to  
Blockbuster to find  an  old  
favorite."  

In addition, Jesse said that the management board of ND Video is looking into the possi­bility of a video delivery service and weekly specials for differ­ent residence halls. 
"It's a good educational opportunity. which is the prime· concern of the Business Board," said .fosse. 
Student body president Micah Murphy questioned whether tho benefit of experi­trn lial education was worth funding a froquently unprof­itable business. 
"Student Senate was the only organization to finish over budget last year. . . . Their loss­es were only a quarter of what Student Senate ran us," Jesse said, reminding the Senate that th<~ prime reason for the mc(~ting was not to qucsl.ion the foasibility of ND Video, but rather to approve the nomina­tion for the managerial posi­Lion. 
Student body vice president Michael Palumbo suggested that the managers of the Business Board attend a future meeting of the Senate to answer questions of that nature. 

Meanwhile, Jesse pointed out that the Senate maintains two representatives to the Financial Management Board, and that it might be more effi­cient to funnel any questions through those representatives. He also extended invitations to the rest of the senators if they would rather deliver their questions in person to the FMB. 
"Do you want all 28 senators to go to your meetings and having it take twice as long?" asked Welsh senator Candy Marcum. "We're not asking them to give some formal pre­sentation. just spend five min­utes answering some ques­tions." 
"Ultimately they a.re respon­
see SENATE/page 4 
GALA displeased with Malloy's response 
Observer Staff Repon 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's gay and lesbian alumni group, GALA ND/SMC, is con­sidering legal action against 
t h e University, claiming prohibition of GALA ads in The Observer is discrim­ination. 

Proposal Blandford of litiga­tion is a result of what GALA chairman John Blandford called an "pathetic ... and unsatisfacto­ry" response from University president Father Edward Malloy to provide evidence justifying the University's advertising policy, "We are seeing what our 
legal options are," Blandford 
said. "We are looking into 
pursuing legal action. We 
know that some First 
Amendment issues are at 
stake here. We are consulting 
with national organizations on 
the issue." 
Blandford asked Malloy in 
an Aug. 31 letter to show that GALA's mission statement "espoused positions contrary to the moral teaching of the Catholic Church" -the -University's official standard 
for rejecting ads. 
Malloy did not respond to 
that request. GALA vice presi­
dent Lisa Karle said. 
"We feel that it didn't 
address what [Blandford] had 
written." Karle said. "He 
expressly asked for evidence 
as to how we espouse teach­
ings contrary to those of the 
see GALA/page 4 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Students in helniets 
My vale of ignorance has been lifted. No longer do I walk in darkness. 
My new found knowledge is due to a most enlightening letter to the editor which appeared in Wednesday's Observer. Iwould like to thank that author for revealing to us his great wisdom and knowledge. 
Before I read that letter I was under the impression that Irish cornerback Clifford Jefferson was sitting a few rows over from me in my philosophy class every Monday, Wednesday and Friday. Now I know that it is not Jefferson that sits near me, but instead, some sort of cyborg constructed by the administration to trick me into thinking that Jefferson is in my philosophy class. 
How have I come to this conclusion'? Well. thanks to that all-knowing member of the class of 1995, I now know that all football players are too busy "living off campus. partying, playing video games and being sexually promiscuous" to attend classes. How could I have been so stupid as to think that football players made a contribution to this campus on days other than football week­ends'? 
I would like to thank that authoi: for showing me that all football players am "professional underqualif'ied jocks who never study." Because before I read your intelligent discourse, I had been under the faulty assumption that tight end Jabari Holloway was a great guy who got amaz­ing grades in a nearly impossible major. 
According to my new found logic, his 3.2 GPA in computer engineering is most certainly a lie. Because without studying and working hard, he never could have achieved those grades. 
And when I speak to Bobby Brown, I must be hearing someone thro¼ing his voice so that it appears that Brown is speaking. Because when I hear his words. I don't hear an ignorant, under­qualified fornicator but instead I hear an intelli­gent, articulate leader. 
ft is certainly a clever ploy by the administra­tion that Brown's true nature is so hidden that I cannot discover it. But no more will I be fooled, thanks to that well-thought letter. 
But the cover-up extends further than just to an sports writer for The Observer. Even Parade magazine was fooled into thinking that football players are more than big guys who hit each other. They once did a cover story on Chris Zorich and his incredible social work with inner-city kids. 
Perhaps Parade needs to be told that all football pfayers are worthless people with no redeeming values. I mean Chris Zorich is certainly not the kind of person that we want people to envision of when they think of Notre Dame. Why would Our Lady's University possibly want to be associated with a man from the inner-city of Chicago who earned a degree, played in the National Football League, started his own charity organization that has helped hundreds of people and is now going to law school? Those sure sound like the actions of an undcrqualified slacker. 
Or perhaps I was wrong to accept the views 
stated in that letter. Maybe the author should 
have opened his eyes to the wonderful people that 
don the blue and gold for the Irish every 
Saturday? Holloway, Brown and Zorich are just a 
few of the many players who are making positive 
contributions to the Notre Dame community and 
beyond. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Noreen Gillespie Mike Vanegas Laura Rompf Graphics Tim Logan Karie Kennedy 
Sports Production 
Kathleen O'Brien Kerry Smith Viewpoint Lab Tech <;:olleen Gaughen Kevin Dalum 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday cxccpr during exam and vacarion periods. The Observer is a member of chc Associa1ed Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

-
The Observer . INSIDE Thursday, September 23, 1999 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS  
Thursday  Friday  Saturday  Sunday  
. "Save a Life ... Give  . Conference: "India and  . Film: "Limbo,"  . Concert: "Music From  
Blood": Blood drive, Rolfs  the Politics of Developing  Annenburg Auditorium,  Tin Pan Alley," Moreau  
Recreation Center, 9 a.m.­ Countries," McKenna Hall.  Snite Museum, 7:15 p.m.  Center, Saint Mary's,  
3:30 p.m.  all day.  . Concert: South Bend  2:30 p.m.  
. Lecture: "Uncovering  . lntercultural Center  Symphony Orchestra with  . Concert: "Quink," A  
Dante in Petrarch,"  Grand Opening: Lafortune  guest Robert Hamilton,  Dutch a cappella vocal  
102 Hesburgh Library,  Student Center, Noon- O'Laughlin Auditorium,  ensemble, Hesburgh  
4:30 p.m.  3 p.m.  Saint Mary's, 8 p.m.  Library Auditorium.  

Compiled from U-Wire reports

OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Activists arrested for protest against professor 
PRINCETON, N.J. "We're not dead yet." "Singer was an incredibly open 
A day of protest against and amiable man," said Junior Princeton University's hiring of Hyeseung Song, one of Singer's controversial bioethicist Peter students. "It was like a regular
Protestors' chant against Singer culminated Tuesday in the Princeton professor course." arrest of 14 activists, who wore Nevertheless, the day was any­dragged away from Nassau Hall thing but typical for more than a after sealing off the building for dozen Public Safety officers who two hours. found themselves attempting to Singer has come under fire due Safety around 1:30 p.m. police a rally that began outside to his recently published book stat­Just hours before, about 200 pro­Fitz Randolph gate at -10 a.m. ing that parents should have the testers descended on a soggy cam­Protesters, including pro-life, anti­right to euthanize their children pus while singing, "Shapiro pro­euthanasia and disabled-rights born with birth defects. both men­motes murder," and wielding activists, stood in the steady rain, tal and physical. posters that compared Princeton to periodically chanting, "We're not About 30 wheelchair-bound pro­Auschwitz. dead yet," until 11:30 a.m. At that testers and several other disabilitv­Meanwhile, at the Center for point the crowd began to pour rights advocates from Not Dead Yet Human Values at 5 Ivy Lano, through the gates and converge on barricaded all five entrances tu Singer's first seminar proceeded Nassau Hall -where it soon Nassau Hall -trapping University without incident. Public Safety offi­became apparent that !\Jot Dead officials inside and preventing at cers rimmed the building to ensure Yet members were attempting to least two deans from entering -that only authorized students seal off the University's central before being removed by Public would enter the class. administrative offices. 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather<!' forecast for noon, Thursday, Sept. 23. 
Bands separate high temperature zones for the da:y. 

0 ·1999 A.ccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STA nQNARY 
®-© . ml aIJ D GI] ~ 0 ~ M 
tclgh Low Shower• Rain T~atorme Flurr~• Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
VI, Asioci.Bred Pr~n 
Atlanla n 54 Helena 85 50 Paradise 67 57 Baltimore 77 53 Inglewood 72 65 Sacramento 89 59 Boston 70 58 Laxington 76 52 St. Louis 83 60 Chicago 78 52 New York 72 58 Tampa 89 68 Detro~ 74 52 Philadelj>hia 74 54 WashOC 74 56 

Arrests made in Florida student's death 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. 
Alachua County Sheriff's Office arrested three more Live Oak residents Tuesday afternoon in connection to the beating death of University of Florida student Brian Tew at Campus Club Apartments early Saturday morning. Thomas Anthony Bartolot:ta, Jason Kelley and Bryan Kelley, were asked to turn themselves in to the Suwannee County jail, where Alachua County Sheriff's officers arrested them, said Sheriff's spokesman Sgt. James Troiano. The three men are charged as principles to second-degree murder. Joshua Wells, 21, also of Live Oak, was arrested over the weekend andcharged with second-degree murder. Bartolotta and the Kelley brothers were with Wells the night of the Campus Club Apartment fight, where Wells "maliciously kicked" Tew in the headafter they fell down the stairs while fighting, Troiano said. Interviews with witnesses who saw the Saturday morning fight led to the arrest of the suspects. who are in the Suwannee County jail. The three men will be moved to the Alachua County jail later this week, Troiano_ said. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 

Arkansas student tours sweatshops 
FAYETTEVILLE. Ark. 

Though Russell denies having sweatshops in El Salvador, a University of Arkansas student who has visited the country disagrees. Cynthia Kendall, a mem­ber of Campus Democracy Cellective, visited El Salvador this summer and spoke with a female worker who said she made clothing for Bussell in sweatshop conditions. "l handed about three shirts to her with the Russell label on them, and she said she made them," Kendall said. "She said Korean managers [in the factory] would hit workers in the head, and they would count the minutes it took them to go to the bathroom. ":fhey only had hot water to drink, and the only way the Korean managers could communicate with them was by screaming insults at them like 'brute animal' and 'shameless cat face.' They would fire some of the Workers for pleasure." The Koreans moved to EI Salvador when they had trouble with businesses at home, and most of them are unhappy being in a foreign land, Kendall said. Kendall said the worker she spoke to had been fired from her job.· and was refused severance pay. \_ 
~ 
................. 
-...............
was 

Thursday, September 23, 1999 1he Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
No arrests 1nade in hit-and-run 
By FINN PRESSLY 
Arnsranr Nrw, Editor 
South B1'nd l'olirn haV() yN l<l makn any arrnsLs in last Friday's hit-anrl-run accidont 1111 St. Pot.er StrnN. according lo Sgt. William Kraus of the hit and run division. 
The car involved in the. acci(knt was a dark colored Buick, possibly a Hiviera. 
'Tvc got two different llic~nse plate numbers!, missing letters in both of them." said Kraus. "That's in assumption that tho plates belong on the vehicle." 
Police matched the incom­plete license plates with car descriptions and sent a letter of inquiry to the owners. 
Lack or nvidence is another problem in the investigation. ''When you look at crashes 

that involve pedestrians ... it's vory difficult to find evi­dence on the car," Kraus said. 
The accident injured two Notre Dame students and a 1998 graduate. One of the students, sophomore Megan McMulifln, was seriouslv injured in the crash. She is expected to undergo knee replacement surgery in com­ing weeks. 
We want your news. Call 631-5323. 
A perfect meeting place throughout the weekend. 
Open Friday and Saturday Dlring 
N .D. Home Football Weekends. 
Everyone Welcome 
Live Music Grilled Burgers, Brats, and Other Specialties 
Cold Beverages & Spirits 60" Screen TV's Fully Enclosed Tent 
ext to the N.D. Bookstore. 219-631-2000 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Board clears 
service funding 
By COURTNEY BOYLE 
News Writer 
Several Saint Marv's student groups asked Board of Governance (BOG) for co-spon­sorships and community ser­vice donations at Wednesday's meeting. 
BOG decided to donate $(JOO to the fall Appalachia, Va., trip. This year, 12 students will 
travel to help ''[The trip/ goes along with during Sisters of the the service projects that are f a I I 
Holy Cross wilh break
being implemented at

home repairs. 
They still need funds to keep individual expenses at a minimum. The women pay for van use. gas and groceries -approximately $75 each. 
• "fThe trip! is very eye-open­ing," said junior Cindy Traub.· "In some ways you don't under­stand until you're down there. It's amazing. We come away with so much more then we could ever give them." 
"It's a really good project and it is all done by the students," said BOG's women's issues commissioner Emily Koelsch. "It is a completely community based project. If we could give them as much [money! as pos­sible it would benefit every­
one." 
"[The tripJ goes along with the service projects that are being implemented lat Saint Mary's!," said mission commis­sioner, Molly Kahn. 
The new Brazil program also was given $600, and BOG agreed to consider donating more if it's needed. 
The program gives 1 O to 12 students the opportunity to go 
t () 
Brazil 
to visit
[Saint Mary's/." differ­
ent col­
! e g es
Molly Kahn 
a n d
mission commissioner 
s I um s aroas 
a n d 
work with the Sisters of the lloly Cross. 
"It is a great program for all of us to go and put a little bit of America there," said Belmarie Gonzalez-Estevnz. 
Because this is the first St. Mary's trip to Brazil, the oppor­tunity was only open to selected campus leaders. 
BOG also donated $483 to the Residence Mousing Association {RIIA) to cover registration costs for seven students and two advisors to attending an RHA conference. 

rt, .· .·..··.. .·• .· mra1J .crzptu _ i]hiversity ofSte·ilbenville 
'. . ----:;~ .•/". 
defis-a , . 
•• -;,•,.:•, .""--'t_• •a; , .,iJ; ·-:,,·, :t,f-::,••,
'C , 
.·_scqverii,ig tlie fa < ' ~' 
:. .r..• ' . , < ature of GocJ is a lee • 
~.~nJocki~g the ~ib.l~. · 
-:••~_•:••:, ;_, ..~.. ,'.,}'.t,'!.'.:-~--~.:a•••

wiffi~tnis'obse'f1aito'· .· tro . n '. ' e>' 
· :·_. · :;·:\t-/·.··"·:·.::\_'. :~-i~r~ · -. . · 

· Pirn;es~of:§grtWam . 
,_ ~.; '•• 'e. :
ay' come to apprec 
!I•::: . •

_re deeplythe sp1 ·,S',;:;\;'.'~t··· ·anings ofhuman tfTll!,M~~eiyof,~ t··~L.e .. .... :···.·•s·.··· ex, ch... :ti/·. .,":~.; :.:;ii• :~:· .·,i
...~.·.,1, ~s«.~,-. ,

:..r~}ffgdsc,icraments. ;:;~:,~/Li~~tutcf ,~~,,../> ,,.
.,8:30fM . . 
,: .,: ,; :;;ht.: " l ,, ... ~l~· ::t);-:t;;,:7, \ . 
. . ,·t~}~th:Children rifMaty; Hof· · ·, ·· ··.,>: :. ·' '' ·: titiftm-Ot'f~~t/J.'bomi(lcMore Society, Schubmehl-Prein Chair 
· · '. rtheFaith(an unof ·· ·a.-1fifacqI91,)'.!~ ·, .. · ·:'·· · 
'~t~,~-\ " 


page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 23, 1999 
Silloke 
continued from page 1 
enforcing this policy of a smoke-free campus would be a positive change. 
"Even now that we have our certain smoking floors, the girls on this floor don't go by the rules that they arc to close transom windows and the smoke leads into our rooms," freshman Monica Ortiz said. 
·Even though most student smokers were opposed to the new policy, some agreed. 
"Even though I'm a smoker, I understand wanting to make buildings smoke-free simply because it is a health hazard and an irritation to those who are non-smokers," senior Kristin Morris. 'Tm not big on smoker's rights because smok­ing is a bad idea." 
GALA 
continued from page 1 
Catholic Church. There is still no evidence of that." 
"[GALA] has not, nor will it, espouse positions that contra­vene official Church teach­ing," Blandford said. 
Karle expressed interest in discussing this issue further with Malloy and assistant to the president Chandra Johnson, who serves as spokesman for the office of the president on Observer­related issues. 
Johnson could not be reached for comment last night. 
Malloy also wrote to Blandford, "The current con­troversy surrounding this issue is not based upon a new policy but rather a longstand­ing one, despite the fact that advertisements have occa­sionally appeared without authorization over the course of the past several years." 
Observer Editor in Chief Michelle Krupa said the policy was presented to the indepen­dent, student newspaper in an Aug. 23 letter from Malloy's office. Before that date, there was no documented policy restricting advertising from groups whose missions do not support Church teaching. 
The Observer. 
It's where to get your news. 
Leader/Manager. 
Full-time college students or graduates. $31 K starting salary. Summer interns available. 
U.S.M.C. Officer Programs. 
Contact Lt. Simek at 
7 65-7 43-8359. 

O'Higgins: Ireland advances economically 
By MARIBEL MOREY 
News Writer 
Ireland has shown the most accelerated evolution in the shortest amount of time during the past two decades com­pared to the rest of the European nations, said Kathleen O'Higgins, speaker for the Economic and Social Research Institute in Dublin, Ireland. 
O'Higgins lecture, "Irish Social Policy: Safety Net and Mechanism for Change," focused on Ireland's economic advancement in relation to other European countries. 
"The increase in population of working age and the increase in women's labor force participation; the invest­ment aid from the European Union and the closer integra­tion with the international economy all worked to stimu­late the evolution of this once farm-based economy," she added. 
O'Higgins explained that the change in the social realm is due to an increase in skilled jobs and a decreas·e in unskilled jobs. This has pro­moted Ireland's eagerness to become a "knowledge-intense industry." 
·Technology also caused change. Ireland currently pro­vides of 60 percent of the soft­ware in Europe. With these changes, poverty has consis­tently decreased since 1987 from 16.9 percent to 6.4 per­cent in 1999. 
Th<' inain factor of the change into an urbanized and Europeanized Ireland is from the "rational, effective social 
Senate 
continued from page 1 
sible to this body, and if this body want them here, they are obligated to come here," added off-campus senator Pat Foy. 
Debate returned to the nomination, which was approved unanimously, along with the nominations for manager of Irish Gardens, AdWorks, Business Board general manager and sopho­more class advisor to the freshman class council. 
University of Notre Dame International Study Programs 

Nagoya,Japan 
INFORMATION MEETING 
With Professor Setsuko Shiga 
Thursday September 23, 1999 
5:00 P.M. 206 O'Shaughnessy 
Application Deadline December 1, 1999 
policy" O'Higgins said. 
Internal and external changes 
in social policy "help to shape 
the character and equity of 
social relations." 
Known mainly as a "Catholic corporate welfare state," the separation of church and state in Ireland is surprising, O'Higgins said. -The Homan Catholic Church has little interest in govern­mental structure, but some­times an underlying principle 
is shown. 
In 1992, a referenda for 
restricted abortion was voted 
against by 65 percent of the 
population in Ireland and a 
marginal 50.3 percent was in 
favor of the legalization of 
divorce in the referenda of 
1995. 
The external factors include 
Ireland's entry to the 
European Community in 1972 
along with the Single 
European Act of 1987 and the 
unification of currency in 
1992 with the Maastricht 
Treaty. 
For the success of the 
international integration of 
Ireland, social partnership is 
essential, O'Higgins said. The 
government provides the 
arena for the partnerships of 
employers such as the farm­
ing and business organiza­
tions and these groups collabo­
rated to ensure the .success of 
the economic system. 
The other key element for Ireland's success is the use of European money to invest as its aggressive policy of bring­ing in foreign investment has been heightened by its "eco­nomic openness." 
O'Higgins said an improve­
ment in education, health care, 
In other Senate news: 
. 
The Senate approved the addition of Dome Designs to the Business Board. Dome Designs is a student-run com• pany that specializes in designing Web pages For stu• dent organizations on cam­pus. The nomination for the managerial position was also approved. 

. 
Micah Murphy delivered the annual State of 1.he Student Union address. Ile highlighted the user-friendly revision of du Lac and the new student government homepage as the two objec­tives completed so far this term. 



women's rights and social ser­in the international market. vices has occurred simultane­"A lucky combination of fac­ously with income increases tors got us to where we a.re," and Ireland's expanding role O'Higgins said. 
University of Notre Dame Department of Music (;Ul'!--1 \rf1,t ,.__ 
p e e 
l"C'\ :.:..', 
\,_,.,/ $.i ,,uo, 
$6 Senior ( 11, S8 ND/SM< Commu""' 
1il0 General Adm""'"' Tickets available al ,h, l,aFor1une Ro~ Offi<c or <hatge by phone 1-81.?8. 
-. OJ' nwn 
111 , ,-111al,r 11 
pka,t' .all 1-6201 or 
mi, our *~b site at www.nd.edu/ ~music. 




Law School Applications" 

presented by Dean Vincent Rougeau, 
N.D. Law School 

------------------==========----------­
September 23 (Thursday) 
4:30 P.M. 105 Law Building 









WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Albright: Congress should pay arrears to U.N. 
NEW YO!lK 

Secretary of State Mudclei1rn Albright said W11d11esday Congress does not understand the harm it is causing the Unitnd SI.ates by not giv­ing l'rnsidont ClinLOn all the money he wants to finance U.S. foreign policy. One result of con­grossional cuts is that the United States is in dnht· lo tlrn U11ilod Nations and, Albright said, "tlwy n~sonl us dPeply becaus<\ we am not pay­ing." By U.N. accounting, Llw bill is about $1.5 billion. If the Unite<! States docs not pay $;{50 million by Janumy, it could losn its vote. "There is a lack of' umlnrstanding in Congrnss about the toll it takes on tlw J\nwrican position ifw11 don't havn Llw monny." Albright said ol' the cuts in l'ornign spnnding. 1\lbright agrnnd with eongres­sional critics who say that Urn Unit1id Nations should do more Lo trim its spnnding, buL she said Secrdary-(;c,mral Kofi Annan had ordered some 'A'Orlhwhilo rnf'rirms in U.N. operations. 
Pope confirms visit to Holy Land 
VATICAN CITY 

Israeli and Palestinian youths won from Pope John Paul II sonwlhing that so l'ar has Hud1\d tlrnir political l«!ad1n-s -a firm pledge that he plans to visit the Iloly Land. "You know that, if (;od wills, I plan to go to the lloly Land on a pil­grimagn tracing tlrn stages ol' the history of sal­vation," John Paul said in a written message he gave to a group ol' three young people WPdrwsday. "(;0(1 willing. tlmrcfore, we shall hav!' tlw chan!'e to nrnrt again on your own soil." Until now, John Paul has spoken of such a trip as a hnpP nwn• than a plan. /\ sl"P in the lloly La11d -in both lsraf'l and Pal1!sti11ian-con­lrollPd tPrritorir.s -is on a proposl'd iti1mrary tlw po1w has sk1\tdwd for pilgrimages across thP Middh• l:asl. Tlw trips rould b(!gin as early as DIH'.l\lllbr.r with a visit to Ur, the Biblical birthpla1·p of Abraham in what is now Iraq, although 110 date has bePn fixed. 
Task force: Swedish cops should combat biker gangs 
STOCKI !OLM. Sweden 

J\ Swedish govnrnmm1t rnsearch group says police should set up a spticial task force to fight crimns rnlated lo violent biker gangs, news n!ports said Wedrnisday. Police should identify gang loaders, study bow members are recruited and impose tougher legislation for narcotics vio­lations and the possession of explosives, accord­ing to a rnport by the Swedish Defense lfosnarch Establishment. The report called for a ban on wearing vests adorned with gang rnnblems al public places such as restaurants or bars. and for legislation making it easier to con­fiscate illegal gains and property from gang nwmbers. Thu rncommendations were cnm­piled as p,~rt of a study on low-level threats to national security. 

S&P 5011; 
13111.51 
•2.93 
VOLUME LEADERS 

i;Qlll&lil .:1,111 l ,116lis.& , ,a,aaia Ultili 
lCOil COfti' C<lMB +i.19 . 1.3075 Ji.&l MlCJI.OBOF"l' MSF'l' +l.!IA 1-1.'350 116 .06 INTEL CORP nnc +0. 8100 112.81
+n.,, 

J.N•RIC~ ONLINE AOL +7 .51 . l:i.3750 H.2S O&LL COMPU"I'SR DEl.L -o ,95 -0.4400 f.6 .Ofi ctseo &'i9TftlS C'!JCO +1. 58 +l.1150 72.25 11,MUNQ NETWORl'C PAGS -31.03 -o ,43''3 0 .97 :a~OADSASE SOF'l'W BSSW -t13,a51J0 n.,s
i'''.(i'

••""-is • • !!iOO} ... +O .15 +O. ~000 130.95 
""' 
\olOIU•DCOIC IN WC<JR -1, l'J •1.l:ilJS ao.94 
orl 
•I 
Thursday, September 23. 1999 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 

TAIWAN 

Relief workers flock to island 
Associated Press 

TAIPEI 
Rescue teams streamed into Taiwan today ­including a U.S. crew that pulled a man from his col­1apsed apartm,rnt -as three strong aftershocks to the country's devastating earthquake forced terror­stricken residents into the streets. 
Hescue efforts wern com­plicated by today's after­shocks, which triggered mudslides, cracked one of Taiwan's largest reservoirs and forced eva,·uations. The aftershocks, with magnitudes of 6.8, 6.1 and 6.0, were the strongest of more than 2,000 that have rocked the island. 
The death toll from Tuesday's quake climbed to 2,003 people, with 4,400 injured, officials said. Some 2,600 people were believed to be trapped in rubble, but res­cuers were finding more bodies than survivors as they bored into collapsed houses and high-rise apartment complexes across central Taiwan. 
The day's rescue efforts yieldnd just 11ine people pulled alive from the wreckage. 
Crews from Fairfax Co.. Va., and Miami-Dade, Fla .. arrived in Taiwan today and rescued a man who had been trapped 48 hours inside a caved-in apart­ment building in the town of Touliu. that dispatched earth­
"What happened to my quake specialists were the building?" 33-year-old sur­United States, Russia, vivor Hsu Tse-kai asked Switzerland, Turkey, repeatedly as the crews Japan, Singapore, South spent eight hours digging Korea, Israel and the him out of a four-story Philippines. chunk ()f building that had The Central News been compressed into Agency placed the number about 10 feet of rubble. of foreign specialists in the 
The rescue workers then country at about 500, with started digging deeper in more scheduled to arrive. search of a 1-year-old boy. U.S. Geological Survey saying they were encour­officials said Tuesday's aged by listening devices quake had a preliminary that appeared lo pick up magnitude of 7.6 -about the sound of a child's toy. the same strength as the 
Among the 14 countries devastating tremor that 
House crafts minimum wage increase 
killed more than 15,000 people in Turkey last month although. Taiwanese seismologists initially put the magnitude at 7.3. 
Many of the foreign experts had assisted in rescue operations in Turkey. 
After today's aftershocks, state radio said cracks had been discovered in one of Taiwan's largest reser­voirs, the Sun Moon Lake Reservoir, and warned downstream residents to evacuate their homes. It 
While changes are possi­ble in the minimum wage measure. the wage increase under consideration calls for 35 cents a year for each r;if the next two years, fol­lowed by 30 cents a year for the two following years. 
Several officials familiar with the compromise effort said they expected legisla­tion to be unveiled later in the' week, although prospects for passage are unclear in the current com­plicated political atmos­phere. 
Many Republicans tradi­tionally have opposed increases in the minimum wage, but the leadership is 
said water would be released from the reservoir as a precautionary mea­sure. 
The radio report also said officials were evacuat­ing two towns in west-cen­tral Taiwan where streams of mud slid into a river. Officials feared the blocked water flow would cause flooding. 
The aftershocks also were felt in Taipei, shaking buildings and sending many frightened citizens out of their homes and into the streets again. 
under pressure from the Democratic minority as well as a pivotal group of' GOP lawmakers from swing dis­tricts who court union sup­port. 
On the other hand, while many Democrats favor a $1 minimum wage increase over two years, conserva­tive members of the rank and file want measures to assist businesses likely t() feel the efl'ects of an increase. 
House Majority Leader Dick Armey, H-Texas, told reporters earlier in the week that a vote would be allowed if moderate Republicans ask for it. 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
A bipartisan group of House members is crafting compromise legislation lo combine a minimum wage increase with billions of dol­lars in tax breaks for some businesses and the self­employed, officials said Wednesday. 
These ollicials, who spoke on condition ()f anonymity, said the emerging compro­mise is likely to call for a $1.:-rn increase ()Ver four y<mrs in the $5.15 hourly wage floor. An increase of that size would be less than the White House and many Democrats want, but more than the GOP leadership says it would like. 
The tax breaks likely to be included would make the cost of health care fully deductible for the self­employcd; offset part of the cost of hiring certain low­wage earners; and increase the deductibility of meals as business expenses for small businesses and the self­employed. 
Also likely to be added is pension-related legislation the House passed earlier, including an increase in allowable contributions to 401{k) and similar plans. 


page 6 The Observer . EAST TIMOR NEWS Thursday, September 23, 1999 

THIS FRIDAY NITE, COME OUT TO ST. PATRICK'S COUNTY PARK FOR THE FIRST CONCERT OF THE FALL!!! 
5I5fER HAZEl, lIVE ON 5fAGE PERFORMING ·All FOR vou·, 1HAPPY· AND BRAND NEW fRACK5 FROM fHEIR NEW CDfff 


D 
0
•!u 
u 
T 
0 
I! 
L 
,,;;...1..;;...._____-I 
:
" 
R 
I> 
•
D 

Proceeds to Benefit Abused and Neglected Children 

U.N. peacekeeping troops draw fire 
Associated Press 
DILi 

Australian peacekeeping troops came under sniper fire in Dili on Thursday. as hostile automatic gunfire crackled across the city for the fir&t time sinr,e the force arrived in East Timor's devastated capital. 
Gunmen fired from 
Violence in
"ft would appear that the 

nearby trees areas under 
at a house militia have attempted to multinational comman­
step up some activities as control raises 

deered by the 
fears the
a show that all is not yet

Australians, 
peacekeepers

the Associated secure. Well, I would 
themselves 

Press report-
agree with that." could come 

ed. There 
under attack 

were no as they
immediate Maj. Gen. Peter Cosgrove 
deploy into reports of U.N. force commander more areas 
casualties. 
Earlier, shots we.re fired near Lhe stadi­um where refugees were seek­ing protection from pro­Indonesia militias. Dozens of people scurried for cover. · 
Witnesses told The Associated Press the shots came from Indonesian army troops firing into the air in two passing trucks. But Lt. CoL Peter Welch, an Australian battalion com­mander, said the shooting apparently was an attempt by pro-Jakarta militia gunmen to be seen and heard. 
More shooting was heard near Oil's harbor, a vital link for the peacekeepers to unload men and supplies to sustain the 7,500-man force due to take position in East Timor. 
The army, which was accused of participating in the orgy of killing and looting after East Timor voted overwhelmingly to separate from Indonesia, is evacuating the half-island and handing over control to the Australia-led peace force. 
There were reports of clashes between pro-and anti-indepen­dence militias in the country­
side. 
outside Dili. 
M a n y [ndonesians accuse the foreign media of stirring up problems in East Timor and conspiring with the United Nations to rig the outcome of the Aug. 30 vote. 
The commander of the force, Maj. Gen. Peter Cosgrove, linked the death of Sander· Thoenes, a 30-year-old reporter for Britain's Financial Times and for the Christian Science Monitor, to resistance by the pro-Jakarta militias to the deployment of his force. 
"It would appear that the militia have attempted to step up some activities as a show that all is not yet secure. Well, I would agree with that," Cosgrove said. 

Reporter killed outside capital 
believed to be the first killing of a foreigner since the interven­tion began Monday. 
Militiamen have vowed to kill Westerners, whom they accuse of helping East Timor break free ofIndonesian occupation. 
The International Federation of Journalists expressed outrage Wednesday over Thoenes' death, calling it a blatant attempt to stop journalists from reporting from East Timor. 

Associated Press 
DILi 

As international peacekeepers worked' to restore order to East Timur, a Dutch journalist was killed and two other Western reporters escaped an armed attack without injury. 
The attackers in both inci­dents remained unidentified Wednesday, although they appeared to be linked to pro­Indonesian militias that began rampaging across the territory after East Timorese voted over­whelmingly for independence in an Aug. 30 reforendum. 
Sander Thoenes, 30. a corre­spondent for the London-based Financial Times, had been in Dili less than two hours Tuesday when he hired motorcvcle driver Florindo Araujo for a tour of the area. 
Araujo said he took Thoenes to the suburb of Becora, where 
BOOK SEARCH 
• 
UiCd, rare and out-of-print books 

• 
initial cost of $Z.Od 

• 
Nationarty • circulated ad 

• 
Success rate of SO% 

• 
Time Required: 2 months 


ERASMUS BOOKS 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232-8444 

they approached a roadblock staffed by at least six armed men wearing the gray uniforms of the Indonesian police. 
The two turned around, but some of the armed men gave chase, firing warning shots and eventually shooting out the motorcycle's rear wheel. Araujo, who fled, last saw Thoenes lying in the street. 
Thocnes' mutilated body was found later. His death was 
WU 
---·-·-w----------.,------··-w---­
Thursday, September 23, 1999 The Observer. CAMPUS NEWS page 7 

W 

Funk: Meet God through prayer 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI News Writer 
Prayer is the language ol' expe­ri•'ncing Cod, according to Sister Mary Margarnt Funk. 
Funk's lcclurn "Contemplative Meditation" dealt primarily with Lhe practice of various forms of prayer to bcicome doser to Cod. 
Funk emphasized that human existence is largely defined by liiarning methods of prayer. 
"We're horn to know wlrnn to practice," Funk said. "If it's a highnr form of prayer to give up the practice, do iL" 
Funk drnw on stwnral difl'nrrnt methods of prayer to illustrate examples of how prayer should he us1~d in daily lifo. 
One particular method was 
used by St. Theresa of the Little flower, who called it her "Little Way." 
"[ For Saint Theresa] practice was the daily life," Funk said. 
Similaritirs between tlrn medi­tation practices of' Buddhism and Christianity were also dis­cussed, showing how prayer can be used in different cultures. 
"From the eastern religions. the training of the mind is medi­tation," Funk said. 
Funk is the Executive Director of' Monastic Interreligious Dialogue, with which she has traveled to India. Tibet, and Nepal to experience eastern spiritualitv firsthand. While traveling, she was able to learn more about Buddhism and Hinduism. 
"One thing I've learned: Never speak for other religions," she said. "It's awful hard for other religions to interpret yours cor­rectly." 

She was formerly the Prioress of the sisters of Saint Benedict of Beech Grove, Ind. She resides there at their Sacred Heart Monastery. 
Funk is also the author of a commentary on the Institutes of John Cassian, titled "Thoughts Matter.'·' 
Funk will facilitate a retreat at Mary's Solitude for those interested in discussing the topic in greater depth. 
"Contemplative Meditation" was sponsored by the Center for Spirituality, Mary's Solitude, the Thomas Merton Society of Michiana and Little Flower Catholic Church. 
Business ethics conference begins 
Special 10 The Observer 
The College of' Business Administration, cited by Business Week magazine as having the foremost ethics cur­rit:u lum in higher education, will host a major conference on ethics today and Friday in McKenna llall. 
Tilled "Measuring and Managing Ethical Hisk: How Investing in Ethics Adds Value," the conforence was organized by the college, its Center for Ethics and Heligious Values in Business and McAndrews Trust and will feature corporate executives as well scholars in economics, finance, philosophy and law. 
"Increasingly, successful com­panies must actively man­Business age the many 
conference
risks . they 
face," said Today T h o m a s g a.rn. -5:30 p.rn.Cusimano, 
Friday
professor of' finance and a 9 a.m.-4:30 p.m. conference 
McKenna Hall
organizer. "But one that corporations still overlook is 

ethical risk. This risk is the danger that ethical conflicts will arise that damage the com­pany." 
Conference participants will discuss the sources of ethical conflicts and analyze case studies, emphasizing the costs of these conflicts in terms of morale, productivity and dam­age to a firm's brand name. They also will explore alter­nate means of resolving ethical conflicts, including formal con­tracts and codes of conduct, as well as informal methods such as trust. The six discussions will be open to the public. 

All are invited to attend!! 

When: Friday, September 24, 1999 Where: 2nd Floor of Lafortune Time: Noon -1:30 pm 

-... , The ceremony begins at noon with an 
official ribbon cutting and blessing. 
Sponsored by ' the Office of Multicultural Student Affairs and the Office of International Student Affairs 

. Gundlach talks about 'slotting fees' with Small Business Committee 
By KATE NAGENGAST 
News Writer 
Gregory Gundlach, associ­ate professor of marketing, 
testified  before  the  
Committee  on  Small  
Business  

o • n Capitol IIill last Tuesday about t h e practice slotting fees has 
on cus-Gundlach turners. 
"(I worked J with a com­mittee of senators to develop the protocol of the hearing, but the testimony was pri­marily my own," said Gundlach. 
He discussed the contro­versial practice of slotting fees, in which retailers and wholesalers requiring a pay­ment from their manufac­turers before agreeing to allocate shelf or warehouse space to their products. 
Testifying with Gundlach was a panel of eight other professionals, including anti-trust lawyers, .trade association representatives and editors of various trade publications. Gundlach was the only academic represen­tative on the panel. 
Gundlach credits this opportunity to his long-term involvement in research and Notre Dame's program. "Here at Notre Dame we are in a position to look at the legal and social implications of business practices objec­tively," he said. "While most universities just focus on the businesses themselves we research a much broader realm ... because our univer­sity mission is to be society oriented and ethically virtu­ous," he said. 
The practice of "slotting fees," although most com­mon in the grocery industry, continues to expand into other business. The pay­ments are usually negotiated and decided in secrecy, and 
Professor testifies 
to Senate group 
the terms are never dis­closed to the public. 
Although proponents claim these fees lead to lower prices by aiding with distrib­ution and signal product quality by showing manufac­turer's support, Gundlach still stated a warning. 
"Slotting fees, though yielding some distribution efficiencies, do raise serious concerns for small business and consumers," he said. 
According to Gundlach the hearing is just tho beginning to the research of slotting fees. 
"[Slotting fees] account for as much as $9 billion in annual promotion expendi­tures, so it is definitely an issue that needs to be addressed. This hearing [represented] an important step ... but to fully under­stand the implications of slotting fees more research is needed," he said. 
Gundlach sees Notre Dame playing a large part in that research. 
"This was not a one-shot deal," he said. "Notre Dame has long-term involvement in this research and my sense is that this will be a continuing process. If, as a university, we are going to be involved at the level we want, we need to take a stance on what's legal and ethical in various business practices." 
Gundlach works to convey that message to students in his strategic marketing management class intended to be a senior's last course to complete his or her major. The course consists of 10 weeks of business sim­ulations that force students to apply the skills they have learned in earlier classes with real-life scenarios. 
"We've talked briefly in class about my experience [in Senate]. This is exem­plary of how the process should work," he said. 
The experience shows his students the value of uncer­tainty. 
"It really shows the stu­dents that there are issues out there of which we still don't know the effects," he said. "The world isn't carved in stone. As future business people they need to understand that the deci­sions they make could have these kind of implications." 

Do you like to write? Would you like to write for us? If your answer is yes, call 1-5323. 
-r------~-w--·-----­
r 
r 
' page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, September 23, 1999 
l 

Thursday, September 23, 1999 
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 
page 9 

Congress renews School of the Americas despite protest 
full funding next year for the Rep. Jack Kingston said the
Associated Press 
School of the Americas, reject­House conferees on the fiscal ing last summer's Ilouse vote to 2000 foreign operations spend­WAS! IINGTON slash the budget of the contro­ing bill voted to accept the
Congressional negotiators 
versial Army school in Georgia. Senate's position that providedagreed Wednesday to provide 
Keough Hall 2nd Annual Chariot Race 

September 25, 1999 at2PM McGlinn Fields 

Live Music Provided by New Madrid Faultline 
Sponsored by Lowes 
Prizes Provided by Marco's, Wolfies General Cinema Theatres, Fun Tan 


l O O II 
Pulliam Journalism Fellowships 
Graduating college seniors are invited to apply for the 27th annual Pulliam 
Journalism Fellowships. We will grant 10-week summer internships to 20 
journalism or liberal arts majors in the August 1999-June 2000 graduating 
classes. 
Previous internship or part-time experience at a newspaper is desired, or other demonstration of writing and reporting ability. Those who go through the Fellowships often find new professional opportunities opening up at other newspapers during and after the program. Winners will receive a $5,500 stipend and will work at either The Indianapolis Star or The Arizona Republic. Opportunities for online training are available, along with reporting experience at our major metropolitan daily newspapers. 
Early-admissions app1ication postmark deadline is Nov. 15, 1999. By Dec. 15, 1999, up to five early-admissions winners will be notified. All other entries must be postmarked by March 1, 2000, and will be consid­ered with remaining early-admissions applicants. Successful applicants will be notified on or before April 1, 2000, and will be asked to respond immediately with a letter of intent, at which time one-third of the cash grant will be mailed to the Fellow. 
To request an application packet, visit our Web site, e-mail us or write: 

Russell B. Pul1iam 
Pulliam Fellowships Director 
Indianapolis Newspapers 

\\c·h ,ilc': \\ \\ \\ ,t,1111~\\ ....l'(lll1/p1! P.O. Box 145 I -111:1il pt1ll1a111(a ,1.tr11c·\1, l"tllll 
Indianapolis, IN 46206-0145 
$2 million in the State Wednesday won't slow the cam­
Department budget to pay the paign. expenses of Latin American sol­
"We are not going away," he 

diers who attend the school at said. "We're going to keep com­Fort Benning. 
ing back to Washington and to 

While the action will not the main gate of Fort Benning in become final until the confer­greater and greater numbers ence on the entire bill is con­
every year until that school is cluded. Kingston said the sec­shut down." 

tion covering funding for the 
The House conferees voted 8­school has been closed and 7 to recede to the Senate posi­
cannot be reopened. tion. 
"The School of the Americas Kingston said the House is in there," he said. "Ifs-sur­agreed to go along with contin­vived another year." 
ued funding for the school The House voted 230-197 because members of the foreign
last summer to 
operations

eliminate the 
spending

$2 million in 
"We're going to keep panel did 
training funds not want to
after oppo­coming back to 
lose juris­nents of the Washington and to the diction over 
school argued 
main gate ofFort the school,

that many of which also 
its graduates Benning in greater and 
rec(dveshad been greater numbers every funding
linked to 
year until that school is from the
human rights 
Dnfense 

atrocities in shut down.·· 
Department

Latin America. 
budget.

The school had 
Father Roy Bourgeois Kingston
survived four 
said Housp,

School of the Americas Watch
previous 
conferees 

House votes founder 
felt that thesince 1993. 

Pentagon

The school 
would find a 

has been the target of a decade-long campaign by reli­gious activists upset that grad­uates of the school were linked to the 1989 murders of six Jesuit priests and two women in El Salvador. 
Father Roy Bourgeois, a Maryknoll priest who has spearheaded the campaign against the school, said the conference committee action 
way to continue operating the school, even if the $2 million in training funds were eliminated. 
The $2 million represents about half the school's annual budget. The rest comes out of the Pentagon budget, which also pays the salaries of the military officers who serve as instruc­tors. Congressional opponents of the school estimate it costs the taxpayers $20 million a year. 

As you see it, is our two-party political system working? Want Reform? Work for Reform! Then vote for Reform! Reform party seeking college volunteers, concerned voters, contributions, candidates, and the creation of an ND on-campu~ organization. Your participation & support is vital for Reform lo occur. 
For details contact: N. W Jmliww Coordinator, 219-926-7576 State Party Chairman, 2/9-267-3434 or ,,mail: l'Crp@wavemu•.m'I 

HAIR MODELS NEEDED 
For Monday's Training Program by Licensed Professionals Call for Information 289-5080 
CAR TROUBLE??? call 
Peppers Imports 
287-4920 
Foreign and Domestic 
ASE CERTIFIED LOW TOWING RATES FREE PICK UP AND DELIVERY 
Located at: 774 Lincoln Way East South Bend 
· • • • • ; • • t I •.• l I t.,.f ! , t, f I If! • It I • • ! t t ! JI J' ft _I t.fJ -~ .t ., .: , ,I..J • '• • 'I.L l. • • • • • • • • ' • 1 •' • • • · • , 
page 10 The Obsei-ver . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, September 23, 1999 

Going up. 
As you begin your ascent to the top, remember, it's what you learn along the way that counts. At Ernst & Young, you can have endless learning opportunities working with leading companies in leading industries. So when you get to your destination, you'll belong there. Ride with us. www.ey.com 
FORTUNE 
10~~·­
~IEI 
Tl WIUFDI 


©1999 E~NST & YOUNG llP 
..... .....

w-• 
page 11 

Thursday, Sepcember 23, 1999 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 
Dole: locker searches, drug testing needed in schools 

teaching days while addressing parent-approved locker and harsh concerns of today, backpack searches and drug­
Associated l'ress testing of studrnts.
Elizabeth Dole said Wednesday MEI.HOSE, Mass. that order must be restored to "For drugs and weapons, I Heminiscing about her student classrooms -even if it means say: there will be no place to 

nee Pa 


ALL AGES WELCOME!! 
Alumni-Senior Club 

Saturday, September 25, 1999 
9:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m. 
Free Drinks! Free Wings and More! 
Brought to you by the Student Activities Office. 



ANSWER ~ THECAlL W 


Fr. Bill Wack, C.S.C. 
www.nd.edu/-vocation 
hide," Dole said. 
The Republican presidential candidate detailed her educa­tion platform at Melrose High School outside Boston where she was a student teacher in the 1959-60 academic year. 
She said 
parents should be able to choose from a "rich smorgas­bord of educational choices" in 

d e c i d i n g Dole where to send their children to school 
Dole proposed a new tax credit to encourage private support for public and private schools and also recycled pro­posals from the Bepublican Congress for "education sav­ings accounts" aml for freeing up federal education funds from federal mandates. 
"Take a look at this unwieldy stack of paper," Dole said, painting to· a more than 600-page copy of tho "Clinton­Gore" Elementary and Secondary Education reautho­rization bill. 
"This would be a joke if our system were working, but it's no joke," Dole told about 150 students, school officials and senior citizens in the school library. 
Later in her speech, she 
underscored her point, saying: 
"The federal government has 
become a truly intrusive regu­
latory presence sapping state 
authority, local control and 
parental ·responsibility. Every 
hour spent on complying with 
regulations is time not spent 
helping teachers and stu­
dents." 
Dole said that if she is elect­
ed president, she would let 
states and local school districts choose how most federal money is spent, as long as stu­dents' performance is mea­sured and attained. 
Unlike her rival for the GOP nomination, Texas Gov. George 
W. Bush. Dole did not spell out exactly how she would lever­age federal dollars against fail­ing schools. Bush, earlier this month, detailed a formula for measuring student perfor­mance, rewarding good schools,' and stripping bad schools of' federal support. 
Dole also wants to rninforce 
parents' control of their chil­
dren's education and suggested 
that school-by-school results 
be posted on the Internet. 
"We should allow competi­tion to foster a rich smorgas­bord of educational choices," Dole said. "Whether it's oppor­tunity scholarships f'or students in failing schools, or charter schools or home-schooling, we should empower parents to make choices as long as their choices get results." 
Dole said schools must be 
made safe for students and 
kept drug-free. To attain that, 
she called for parent-approved 
locker and backpack searches 
and drug testing. 
"The lives and bright futures 
of all students depend on our 
watchful care, at home and at 
school," she said. 
Students warmly welcomed 
Dole to their school, where she 
was an 11th grade history stu­
dent teacher while earning a 
master's degree at Harvard 
University. They gave her a key 
to the city, a "We are Melrose" 
button and a football jersey 
saying "President Dole." 
"J was always looking for­ward to seeing the first female president," said Liz Perkins, a 15-year-old sophomore who has high hopes for Dole. 

Apply on· the web and get up to =~e of FREE calling time: 
• 
11 i=: of FREE calling time just for applying. 

• 
Apply on the internet and get an additional 

• 
11, i=: of FREE calling time when you make your first purchase. (•i== if you apply by phone.) 

• 
Get a i=:o/e rebate towards calling on all purchases. t 

• 
No annual fee. 

• 
No credit history required. 


~l!!l1!!11.Y 'PI!!!!I!y ! www.gtecard.com 
or 

1-888-591-7900 
•catl1n9 tima wUI aurtOR1atic•lly b• credit.ct to your GT& C¦tnng C•rd account. twh•n you 011rry ¦ b•lanc• from m,nnth to month. Call our IOU-free numbllr or vlalt our w• •tt•'tor complat• 
disclosure of t•nn• and condltlona. 

VIEWPOINT 
page 12 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. IN 465% 024 South Dining Hall, Norre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Michelle Krupa 

MANAGING EmroR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
M. Shannon Ryan  David K.ogcro  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  
Laura Pctetlc  

NEWS EmroR: Tim Logan Vn.WPOINT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughen SPORTS EDITOR: Brian Kessler Sn.NJ:. EDITOR: Michael Vanegas SAINT M'I.Rv'S EIJITOR: Noreen Gillespie P11oro EDffOR: Kevin Dalum 
ADVERUS!Nt, MANAGER: Bryan Lurz 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Bret Huelar SYSTEMS ADMINISTII.ATOR: Michael Revers WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kushro 
CmffROLLER: Timothy Lane GJ<Ai'HICS EDITOR: Joe Muel.ler 

CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GFNl'RAL INFO............631-7471 FAx............................................................. 631-6927 ADVERTISJNG.....................................631-6900/8840 
ob~crver@datwin.cc.nd.e<lu ElllTOR IN CHIEF........................................ 631-4542 MANAGING EDnoR/Assr. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsncws. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 
observer.viewpoim. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 obse,ver.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MAfly's ............................................. 631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu 
PHOT0........................................................631-8767 
SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS ................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site ar http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports. features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-co-rhe 
movies/music for 

min ure forecasts 
weekly student reviews 

advertise for policies 
online features for spe­

and rares ofprim ads 
cial campllS coverage 

archives co search for 
about The Observer 

articles published afi:er 
to meet the edit ors and 

August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspape, published in prim and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary•s College. Editorial content is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. Acting as pub­lisher ofThe Observer, the administration of rhe University of Notre Dame du Lac prohibits the adver­tisement ofalcohol and The Observer·s acceptance of advertisements from specified types of groups. 
The news is reported as accurately and objecrively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Ediror and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the aurhors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is Jvai!able ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinio~s through letters is encouraged. 
Qutstions regarding Observer po/icier should be direct­ed to Editor u, ChiefMichelle Krupa. 
OBSERVER Thursday, September 23, 1999 

We should not fear population growth 
Renowned economist Jeffrev Sachs recently suggested something· very sim­ple in "The Economist": People from developing countries, especially sub­Saharan Africa, should have ready access to cures for malaria, tuberculo­Gabriel sis and AIDS. Sachs 
Martinez
suggested that if people are sick and 

Like Arrows 
die in their prime, 

in the Hands 
nations cannot 

ofa Warrior
become prosper­ous. If children are malnourished, they cannot become responsible and productive global citi­zens. It is an idea that makes sense: People should be plentiful and strong because we are an essential ingredient to the production of nearly everything. 
On the other hand, people are con­sumers. Malthusians instill in us the horrible fear of running out of things because we cannot make them as fast as we breed. If there are too many of us, then teachers, doctors, transporta­tion and energy will be insufficient. 
Our current technologies will fall short of our needs. And every improve­ment in health and agriculture makes things worse because healthier and better nourished people become more numerous. 
This fear has been proven unfound­ed, decade after decade. Each time that we appeared to be close to running out of something, we came up with some­thing else. This is just what Julian Simon told us: Simply put, necessity is the mother of invention (See his book, "The Ultimate Resource.") Technology, instead of being something mysterious and out of our control, is the result of forces within society. Supply and demand: If more people demand acer­tain technology, there are incentives for scientists and the people who fund them to supply it. 
Think of a baby boom as a large increase in demand. If so, it makes sense that somebody, somewhere, stands to make a buck by supplying new ways of making food, new ways of curing diseases. more cost-effective ways of building roads and producing energy. 
Of course, improvements in technolo­gy are not instantaneous, but they take time, money and effort. More impor­tantly. they take human resources: Scientists, assistants, research sub­jects. They take a whole intellectual community. In general, adding another scientist to a department does not make it less productive, but more. Therefore, more populous countries not only have a larger need of new technologies but they also have a larg­er ability to supply the solutions. 
In summary: Having a higher popula­tion density on the one hand makes countries poorer by putting more strain on their resources. On the other hand, having more people makes countries richer by increasing the demand for technology and the ability to supply it (and everything else). 
Telling the direction of causality is trickier than it looks. For example, note that Congo, with a sixth of Nigeria's population density, has a third of its income per person. The rea­son is not the number of people, but political and economic instability. The United States has about the same pop­ulation density as Tanzania, but about 250 times as much income per capita. The reasons are probably historical and institutional. Ideology aside, popu­lation does not appear to be well corre­lated with wealth. 
· OK then, but why are Nigerians so . 
poor? Why don't they come up with 
better ways of producing food and other necessities? 
The answer: Because too many Nigerian scientists work in first-world laboratories. Asians, Latin Americans and Africans study and stay in the United States and in Europe because back home people are too poor to pay for their talents. Indian and Chinese geniuses produce the medicines for developed-world diseases because they feel they would not earn the fruits of their efforts if they worked on develop­ing-world diseases. 
And here is where Sachs' proposals come in. First-world development poli­cy and financial aid should be directed at creating a market for the technolo­gies that the Third World needs. 
We need pharmaceuticals to produce cures for malaria; biotechnology firms to produce better tropical crops; Silicon Valley to produce poor people-friendly information technology. Sachs suggests that rich-country governments can offer to pay the R&D costs, while the goods are sold at producti.on cost. It will happen only if it makes financial sense to do so because a loss-making firm is one that goes broke. 
In short: Don't be afraid of people. Don't fear population growth. Somewhere in the world, there is enough for everybody. Just make sure it is well distributed. 
Gabriel Xavier Martinez is a gradu­ate student in his fourth year in the economics department. He is from Ecuador, and, yes, they have regular cities and all. He is one ofthose who believe in the inherent and unalienable dignity ofthe human person because he believes in God. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 

DILBERT  SCOTT ADAMS  
HELLO, MOTHER. 1 CALLED m TELL '(OU I GET '<OUR. J"OKL  YOU DON'T KNOW WHAT I'M TAU<,­lNG ~BOUT7 H~ HA.! YOU'RE REALLY PLAYING THIS ONE ALL THE Wf!...Y.  

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The great secret ofmorals is love; the great instrument ofthe moral good is the im·agina­tion; and poetry administers to the effect by .acting upon the cause. " 
Percy Bysshe Shelly British Poet 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE Thursday, September 23, 1999 BSERVER page 13 
College has taught us arts of bragging and exaggeration 
What is your best quality? 
What would you say are your worst character traits? 
What's the biggest chall~mse you have ever faced, and how did 
you handle it'! llow many times in the past four years have you answered at least one of those questions? Until my stmior year in.high school, I never 
Nakasha

had to tell anyo1w what my best quality was. Or 1fiy worst. Ahmad Not. that is, until I started applying to college. Then there wern a whule slew of questions ask­
So, What's

ing me ,tbout my entire life history. But I finally 
My Point?

got myself in. I relax<~d. No more bragging about what a stellar chick I was, no more uxplaining away that criminal record I had an1uir1~d. Naturally, being the naive and innocent freshwoman that 
I was, I thought that the ordeal was over. Never again would 1have 
to expostulate on my commitment to The World. Well, at least until 
I IA',lS ready to join the rat race. 
Poor, na!vo, ignorant moi. 
I huvn. over the past four years, pontificated on my best and worst qualities a total of 482 times. The qualities were different each time I expostulated on them. (You would think that after the first dozen times, I would have just sat down and memorized my best and worst qualities. You would think. But I'm just not gifted in the area of foresight.) 
Unfortunately, if you want to join any club, do anything on student government or hold any campus job, you will be roped into talking about the stellar person that you are. It doesn't matter WHAT you want to do on campus, thoso are the three questions they will ask you. 
You: Look, I just want to get into the DI I to get some breakfast. -·nrnm: Why do you think yuu are unique for this position? What gifts can you bring to it? 
You: I'm human, and I sort of need to eat. Them: What's the biggest challenge you've ever faced. and how did you handlA it'! 
You: The biggest challenge I've ever faced is answering this inane question, and the way I'm going to handle it is by perishing away on the sidewalk from lack of food. 
It dons not matter what you need: scholarships. jobs, toilet paper -tlrny will ask you what challenges you have faced in the past and how you dealt with them. They want your life history and 77 refer­ences before they even want to think about you, let alone hire you. 
But the thing they H.EALLY want to know is this: What are your worst qualities? _ 
Oh, come now. llow many of you have really, honestly told even your mother what your worst qualities arc? (And she's the person who alrnady knows all of' them anyway!} Ilow many of you even admit what your worst qualities are to yourself? 
And they expect us to tell total strangers who we want to hire us to tl'll them our worst qualities? Are they trying to get us to lie, or do they think we'll actually tell them about our criminal record? 
It defies reality. What ustrnl!y ends up happening is that we say sonrnihing like, "Uh, my worst quality is my dedication and concern for the human race, which sometimes keeps me from excelling in my acadmnic work." Yeah. we're really going to bare all to a poten­tial employer or scholarship-committee. We'll twist around some GHEt\T quality and make it seem oh-so-bad. I mean, come on: Is Joe Schmoe or Jann Schmann going to tell someone that they're sccrnt nose-pickers who commune with Eleanor Roosevelt? No. They are going to say that sometimes they take on too many tasks. Or that they am perfectionists. They will never, EVER tell the truth. 
Evur. 
So, pretty much, we have become experts at the art of bragging. Or rather, the art of exaggerating. We list all of our accomplish­ments for the past 20 years with ease and aplomb. But give me a brnak: We've only been on earth for less than a quarter-century, and half of that time we weren't even sentient beings capable of forming together sentences. That gives the best of us 10 years to work with (and as for the rest of us ... well, I JUST accomplished something last week.) 
Thcsn interview questions are pointless because they get at noth­ing. They ask us to brag about ourselves and almost force us to lie about our other qualities. It would he much better Lo use recom­mendation forms or trial periods than trying to ask people to praise themsolves. The only things these questions do is turn out people who consistently over-inllate their qualities and understate their weaknesses. And when you say something enough, yon start believ­ing what you'rn saying. 
Iii. mv name is Nakasha Ahmad. 
My bi;st quality is my ability to b.s. 
My worst quality is my complete inability to perform the task 
you'ri> interviewing me for. i\nd the biggest challenge I've ever faced has been writing this column. 
Nakasha Ahmad is a senior at Saint Mary's College. Iler column runs e/Jtfry other Thursday. The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
ND students act like spoiled, arrogant adolescents 
To the current student body: 
When people are under great emotional pressure, their true self' emerges. I sat in section 35, row 16 on Saturday, and I did not like what I saw. Especially in the stands. Especially in sections 35, 34, 33 etc. Although I was not surprised. 
Seated so close, it was hard to misinterpret the salute you gave during the 1812 Overture -and I'm pretty sure it was not directed toward the composer. And your ability to absorb a defeat and leave before the alma mater (about 85 percent of you) did not surprise me either. Such behavior is expected from a basically pampered, spoiled, self-indulgent cluster or arrogant adoles­cents. 
As an Notre Dame graduate, a parent of some recent grads and a Chicagoan who is thankful to be able to live close enough to attend four to six games a year, I can tell you with no uncertainty, that you who left early and/or saluted the coach do not deserve the $100,000-plus "education" you are costing someone. You are most typical of many in today's America. who think first about your­selves and usually never about who you may disappoint or embarrass. 
When your alma mater and the kids that bust their rear ends end up on the short end of a battle, your reaction is to (1) feel cheat­ed, and (2) abandon the fight. Do your par­ents a favor and transfer to the local state school and leave a spot for someone who can appreciate how wonderful Notre Dame is ­with or without a BCS berth. 
To those who conducted themselves as loyal sons and daughters of Notre Dame: Hang in there. It will get better. Even if it doesn't, you'll never be sorry about acting with class. dignity and devotion. The rest of you should just leave -for good. 
Thomas 0. Misch Northbrook, IL September 20, 1999 

We need to amend societal ills in order to end abortion 
This letter is in response to Katherine Hoppe's letter printed on Sept. 15th. 
Specifically, I am addressing Ms. Hoppe's statements to the effect that any life is better than to be denied life via abortion. While she obliquely addresses the issue of quality of life, Ms. Hoppe's statement concerning life is so simplistic as to cruelly disregard the adversity that hundreds of thousands of children face in our country today. 
Could Ms. Hoppe actually say to a child who has faced physical or mental abuse, 
poverty and suffering that they should be grateful for the opportunity to face such conditions? Sadly, most anti-choice activists put the cart before the horse in addressing abortion without first tack­ling the more per­
vasive social ills of ~ 
our society. Sadly, every child is not a wanted child. To end aburtion, we •· must alter social institutions to change ~ this reality. 
My personal experience is admittedly anecdotal, but l hope that it makes some of the stu­dents on this campus aware of the complexi­ties which face children caught between the rock of abortion and the hard place of begrudged life. As an adoptee -someone who was not aborted -I feel uniquely quali­fied to address some of the shortcomings of the adoption and social service systems, the very institutions that non-aborted children are likely to encounter. The vast majority of states have closed adoption laws. This means that the adoptee will not have access to identifying information about their genetic families. What the unadopted take for granted -knowing how many siblings you have, which side of the family you take after, if your family has a his­tory or illness you should be aware of are unknown to the adoptee. 
The result is a limbo. You are not wholly of the family who raises you. but you are unaware of the family from which you came. This reality is reiterated throughout life by benign factors such as elementary school fam­ily tree projects and genetic trait typing dis­cussion in high school biology classes and more cruelly in the stamp of "illegitimate" that most states put on the birth certificates of the children who are born of unwed mothers -even if you are adopted. by a married cou­ple. 
Fortunately, most children are adopted by loving people, but this itself is often a matter of luck. Prospective parents self-report on their behavior, reasons for wanting a child and family history. They provide their own references, and the sad fact is that the over­worked state social services departments do 
not have the time to provide extensive background checks for all but the most blatant problems. Often, 
prospective parents are visited only once or twice before the placement of a child, and 
once oF twice after, unless a social worker discovers serious problems. 
In my case however, both a private adoption agency and state social 
workers failed to discover 
that iny adoptive family had a history of mental ill­ness, alcoh\>I abuse, physical 
abuse, verbal abuse and med­ical illness. The result was a childhood of routine beatings, ver­bal abuse and hunger that was miti­

gated only when my parents abandoned me for hours or days at a time. Ironically, I came to treasure such moments because it meant I wouldn't be hit. I worked illegally from age 12 to earn money for food and school clothes. Every day of my life was a liv­ing hell until I finally left home at 17 and put myself through college. Seven years after leaving, I am still trying to heal my wounds, 
This letter is not in support of abortion, but a plea for people to work as vigorously to amend societal ills with as much vigor as they protest abortion. Ms. Hoppe is correct in urg­ing people to become mentors,and counselors for children, but so much more is needed. To end abortion without ensuring that children have safe environments in which to grow is a hollow victory for the children who will grow up in situations such as the one I faced. 
I apologize for not signing this letter, but with anonymity, I can give myself a kind of protection which was never extended to me as a child. 
Anonymous September 22, 1999 

WWW -W 
..> 
• 

E 
page 14 Thursday, September 23, 1999 

MOVIE REVIEW 

'Streak' overcomes hijinks to make laughs 
By BILL FUSZ Scene Movie Critic 
"Blue Streak" dot's not promise much more than an entertaining movie experi­ence, and if originality is not criteria. for a good movie, "Clue Streak" will bo a fun 
hour and 45 minutes Lawrence's brand of slapstick. 
The movie begins in the middle of a dia­mond heist whern Miles Logan, played by Lawrence ("Life," "Nothing to Lose"), and three of his partners in crime try to steal a $17 
of Martin 

its utter unoriginality. While watching "Blue Streak," the viewer expe.riences this strange sense of deja vu as Logan find himself compulsively lying to the chief, his partner and all tho otlwr cops in order to continue to play I.he role of the detective. 
It has "Beverly Hills Cops" written all over it frankly, and gives a real sense of Lawrence's admira­

Photo courtesy of Columbia Pictures 

Martin Lawrences plays Miles Logan in "Blue Streak," which took the top box office spot last weekend. 
cover as a detective from being blown. the film. 
As the movie continues though, Tulley Original it's not, but to get through the never quite seems to get it and repeated­first half hour of "Blue Streak" will open ly puts his friend in danger of being up laughs and special effects good found out. His goofy antics and "Dumb enough to please. As Miles Logan would and Dumber" style characterization help say, "Believe dat." contribute to a lot of the best moments in 
tion/imitation of
"Blue Streak" Eddie Murphy. It's also just another remake of the mis­matched buddy cop films that everyone knows so well: "The

out of five shamrocks 

Corruptor," "Rush Hour," "Beverly Hills 
million jewel. Things g:o Cops," "Lethal
Director: Les Mayfield

tragically wrong, Weapon," etc. 
though, when the cops Starring: Martin Lawrence, Luke Logan's partner arrive and one of Wilson, William Forsythe and Peter Carlson is played in 
Logan's friends dies. Greene Pursued by a treach­erous partner, Deacon (Peter Greene, "Pulp Fiction"), as well as the police into a building under construc­tion, Logan hides the jewel in a third floor ventilation shaft in hopes of retriev­ing it after he is released from prison. Imagine his surprise when he arrives at the building two years later and finds it is now a precinct house for L.A.'s finest. After attempting to enter the third 11oor disguised as a pizza man -in one of the movies dumber scenes -Logan realizes that the only way in is to disguise himself as a detective. After having a friend forge an i.d .. badge and personnel file, Logan arrives hoping to slip in, get the diamond and get out. As things work out, however, a new detective is just what the department needs and he is immediately assigned a partner and sent out onto the streets to fight crime. Utilizing his insider knowl­edge of burglary, Logan plays the hotshot his personnel file claims he is to perfec­tion. earning hill}self the spot of lead 
detective, robbery division. Meanwhile he continues to search for the diamond in the ventilation system of the building. 
One of the main faults of the movie is 

lackluster fashion by 
Luke Wilson ("Home 
Fries," "Rushmore"), 
and is the classic naive, bumbling rookie 
cop that Judge Reinhold perfected more 
than 15 years ago. It's not Wilson's fault 
he cannot match up. He and the movie 
should have never invited the compari­
son in the first place. 

Besides slavish imitation of the high­
est-grossing R-rated film ever, "Blue 
Streak" also has problems with pacing. 
After the breakneck -literally -pace 
of the opening scene, the film struggles 
through the next half hour. It is slow, it is 
painful and ultimately it should have 
been cut from the movie or drastically 
rewritten. Example: Extended two 
minute shots of Martin Lawrence danc­
ing on a street corner in a blue velvet 
jumpsuit with fake buck teeth. 
But the film is entertaining over all, in 
large part from the comic chemistry between Logan and his hapless friend Tulley, played by David Chappelle ("You've Got Mail," "Half Baked"). Tulley was one of the partners from the opening ·diamond heist who managed to escape. When Logan runs across Tulley in the middle of a convenience store robbery, he's forced to arrest him to keep his 
VtDEO PICK OF THE WEEK 

An ode to Meg Ryan: She's so lovely 
By JEFFREY Q. IRISH Scene Movie Critic 
Doesn't everyone love Meg Ryan'? She is America's sweetheart; a luminous angel who floats on air. She is so cute that even women stare at her. In "French Kiss," we are blesaed with her acting in the role the dear Lord envisioned for her -the world's mosl adorable female. 
As always, Ryan
"French Kiss" plays the role of 
her darling little self, but in this film Director: Lawrence Kasdan she is referred to as Kate. Kate is

Starring: Meg Ryan, Kevin Kline, self-diagnosed as a Timolhy Hutton anti Jean Reno "kind, bold woman, lacking in pretention. with jusl a hint of sophistication." She hates all dairy prod­ucts and belinves thn French are rude. Kate also believes she is living the perfect love story with her dull tiand~ Charlie !Timothy Hutton) Rut in the opening scene. Charlie leaves Kate to travel to a medical convention in Paris: two nights later he calls her and abruptly l'nrls their rnlationship becausn hP has fallen in love with a chic French "goddess." In disbelief that her perfect life is over, Kate cfocides to travel to Paris in an effort UJ somehow win her love back. On the flight she meets her antithesis, the ardent Frenchman 
Luc Tessyier (Kevin Kline). 
Luc is in the process of smuggling a diamond neck­lace so that he can sell it and buy a vineyard in the French countryside. But to get the necklace across the border, he must hide it in Kate's bag while she is asleep on the plane. At customs there is some confu­sion, and Luc and Kate are separated. Luc is then forced to travel across half of France searching for Kate who is unaware that she has the necklace. 
The story is quite similar to any other romantic com• edy, but for some reason the film just clicks. Maybe it is the mystique of Paris, or the great rapport between Ryan and Kline, but whatever it is, it's uncommon in most of today's romantic comedies. 
Between the magnificently beautiful streets of Paris and the picturesque French countryside, there couldn't be a better setting for a love story, 
Kline plays a convincing Frenchman (Luc) through­out the film. Luc is sort of au oddball/buffoon, but his passion for wine and love make him a winner. As stat­ed earlier, the role of the vulnerable Kate is oh-so'.per­fect for Rvan to show off all the nuances that made America fall in love with her. 
It is bard to believe someone could possibly consider dumping her, even in a movie. But luckily, there is Lut, and he has his head on straight. He adores Kate, and throughout the film viewers are treated to him pointing out all of the subtleties that mako Ryan so wonderful ­"your walk, it is like a little girl, yet it is also like a woman._" This is where thfl romanre comes in. 

Photo courtesy of 20th Century Fox 

Meg Ryan plays Kate to perfection in "French Kiss." 
In the end, there are many things to like about Ryan and about "French Kiss." It is interesting, humorous and enjoyable to all varieties of people. It makes a great movie to share with a special someone on a weekend, or on any other night to _get away from the monotony of homework and alcohol. 

M e E 
Thursday, September 23, 1999 page 15 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Third baseball try isn't charm for Cosb1er 
than listening to the contrived dia­
By MIKE McMORROW 
logue of the rest or the film. 

Seen~ Movie C:ritic 
For example, "We don't suck today. 
Today we'll be awesome for you," said 
111 rccPnt y.-ars. llwrt) has lwen noth­Chapel's catcher before the climactic ing more Lnlit\vable at the movies than ninth inuing. Ditln·1 this guy ever hear Kevin Costner in a baseball uniform. that a talking to a pitcher duri.ng a 
/\t the tail mid of th0 '80s, with ''Bull perfect game is a no-no'! Durham" in 1988, a11d "Field or The film is. a departure for director Dreams" in 1989, Costner starred in Sam Raimi, whose previous work two grcal baseball movies and won the ("The Evil Dead," "A Simple Plan")hllarls of those whu love America's was mainly in the horror or dark 
f'avoritr. pastinrn. What would be morn drama genre. "A Simple Plan," (Billy natural than to make Bob Thorton and Bill anotlrnr movie about "For Love of the Paxton) which is a 
baseball now, whon masterfully sus­America's love for penseful thriller, baseball has IHHin Game" was the closest thing renewed on ihP heels Raimi had to a main­of the 1998 season. 
stream film before on£' of' the lrnst and "For Love of the most storied seasons Game." Therefore,
out offive shamrocks

in the history of tlrn hH was an unlikely ganrn? choice to direct this In tlw case of "For Director: Sam Raimi film, especially since Lovn of the Garno," Starring: Kevin Costner, Kelly "A Simple Plan" had 
though, basdrnll is not been releasednrnrnly tlrn backdrop Preston and Jena Malone 
when he was chosen 
for a lov,~ story, which to direct. is disappointing only Haimi fought hard to direct this because thn love story is so tired and movie because he personally is an avid 
so clidH~. baseball fan. It is unfortunate that he 
In "For Lov11 or the (iame, ·· Costner is did not realize that a perfect game, Billy Chapel, a 40-year old pitcher for which is the ultimate test for pitcher's tlrn D,itroil Tigers, who is facing the skill and endurance, not to mention 
end of a Hall of Fame career. llis latest one of' the most difficult feats in all of SfHtson has b1H~11 a disappointment and sports, is dramatic enough without the tlw f'irst ord1!r of business for the 1ww pitcher injuring himself during the last owners of tlw Tigers' is to trade him few innings.
before tlrn start of his nnxt season. llaimi manages to put his creative On top of' that, his estranged love, stamp on this movie mainly during the Jane Aubrey, played by Kelly Preston, baseball scenes, in which he uses has just brokm1 the news that she is some unconventional and effective moving to London to pursue her carenr techniques to convey the loneliness of as a magazine editor. Amid all this Billy's spot on the mound. This is 
advnrsity, Chapel takes to the mound where Billy has spent most of his life, against the Yankees in New York, who and this is where he comes to terms am trying to clinch their division title. with his past and decides about his In this final gamn of the season, and future. perhaps his earner. Chapel throws a The role of Billy Chapel is perfect for perfect ganrn. Kevin Costner. because Billy's career 
/\!though this game is the framework in baseball echoes Costner's career in of the film, tlrn main substance is acting. At one time, they were both the Chapel's flashbacks to defining premier player in their respective momunts in his lifo, focusing mainly on games, but recently, through bad deci­
his rdationship with .lane. sions for Costner -"Waterworld" and 
"For Love of the Game" asks the "The Postman" -and age for Chapel,audience to bulieve that these charac­something had been lost. tl!rs fall in love 011 such thin evidence, With this final showdown, they are especially since the script relies so trying to gain it back. Chapel excels 
Ima vi l y on music and montage under pressure and Costner is back in sequences to manufacture moments, his baseball mode. Unfortunately, 
Photo courtesy of Universal Pictures 

insttmd of working to express what it is even though Chapel throws a perfecttrying to say. I11 all honesty. though, Kevin Costner and Kelly Preston play the romantic leads in "For Love of the
game, Costner and "For Love of the 
listening to music is more appealing Game," the No. 2 film at last weekend's box office.
Game" are mediocre at best. 

• 
Box OFFICE 

"Blue Streak" took 
~D.I7-I9

the top spot at the 
box office with $19.2 Movie Title Weekend Sales Total Sales 
million, beating out 
other new film "For 
1. Blue Streak $ 19.2 million $ 19.2 million 
Love of the Game." 
2. For Love of the Game $ 13.0 million $ 13.0 million 
Last week's No. 1 
film "Stigmata" fell 3. The Sixth Sense $ 11.2 million $ 213. 3 million 

to No. 4, reaching 
4. Stigmata $ 9.2 million $ 33.0 million 
$33 million after two 
5. Stir of Echoes $ 3.9 million $ 11.9 million 
weeks. 

6. Runaway Bride $ 2.6 million $ 144.2 million ,~
Photo courtesy of Columbia Pictures 
7. 
The Thomas Crown $ 2.0 million $ 64.3 million Affair 

8. 
Bowfinger $ 1.7 million $ 63.0 million 

9. 
The 13th Warrior $ 1.7 million $ 29.5 million 


10. Mickey Blue Eyes $ 1.1 million $ 32.1 million 
Source, Associated Press 



-~----.,----------..:---.------------------"""'--.... 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 23, 1999 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Surgery sidelines 
Ripken for season 
ARLINGTON, Texas 

Cal Ripken will undergo back surgery Thursday and miss the rest of the season, leaving him nJne hits shy of 3,000 for his career. 
"He is in a lot of discomfort and felt that it was time to get it done," Baltimore Orioles general manager J-irank Wren said Wednesday night. 
Ripken traveled to Cleveland on Wednesday to visit spedal­is t Dr. Henry Bohlman after experiencing back spasms overnight. 
He will have surgery there to relieve pressure on a nerve that has been causing him dis­comfort. 
Ripken played in 2,632 straight games before volun­tarily endi.ng the streak last September. 
This season. however, he twice was placed on the dis­abled list because of back pain, the first two trips to the DL over a sensational career that began in 1981. 
The 39-year-old Ripken went on the disabled list on April 20 because of a bad back, missing three weeks, and returned to DL shortly after experiencing back pain Aug. 1: 
"To have it reoccur was dis­appointing and frustrating. I was down for a long time," he said recently. 
Ripken returned on Sept. 1 and hi.t his 400th career homer the following day. He has since been on a binge al the plate, upping his batting average to a career-high .340. 
He appeared on his way to joining Tony Gwynn and Wade Boggs as the newest members of the 3,000-hi.t club. It would have been the first time three players reached the milestone in the same season. 
Getting there in 1999 was not a priority for Ripken, who has always put personal accomplishments behind team goals. 
"If 3,000 hits happen. it happens. But it hasn't been a goal to do it in a certain period of time and it hasn't been a goal to do it in a certain year," he said the night he hit his 400th homer. 
"You just play, and things happen when they happen." 
But because the Orioles long ago dropped out of contention, Ripken didn't have much to play for except personal goals -although Baltimore won its 13th straight Wednesday by 
beating Texas·7-4. 
"The true satisfaction out of the game of baseball is to win," Ripken said earlier this month. "It's a whole lot more fun playing on a winner and having a chance to go to the playoffs. It's been a frustrating season in that regard." 
Probably not nearly as frus­trating as the time he's missed because of back pain. 

NCAA FOOTBALL 
Alabama athletic director resigns 
By DOUG 'WILLIAMSON 
U-Wire 
TUSCALOOSA, Ala. 

After a day of speculation, University of Alabama Prnsident Andrew Sorensen put an end to the rumors. 
Having served three years as the University's athletic direc­tor, Bob Bockrath. whose stay at the Capstone had often been shaky and controversial, was expected to resign as soon as Monday. On Tuesday, it became official. 
Just eight days after forming an oversight committee for ath­letics within the three-campus Alabama system, members of the University's Board of Trustees validated rumors Mondav that Bockrath and University president Andrew Sorensen had decided on Bockrath's resignation. Sorensen and Bockrath made the arrangements over the weekend. 
Several trustees confirmed that neither they nor the prior establishment of an oversight committee influenced the deci­sion. 
"Bob's accomplishments in his three years at the University of Alabama are reflected in a solid facilities development plan, due dili­gence with regard to NCAA compliance issues and improvements in the academic and competitive performance of several of our men's and women's athletics teams," Sorensen said. "But we both 
7 accept the University's decision to make an administrative change in leadership in its athletic program." 
Bob Bockrath Former Alabama 
athletic director 
agreed that, from an adminis­trative and a leadershlp stand­point, a change was needed." 
Bockrath will be assigned other duties until June 30, 2000. He is expected to take sick leave during a portion of that period due to injuries stemming from a motorcycle accident. 
Bockrath was not present to comment, but he released this statement: •·1 accept the University's decision to make an administrative change in leadership in its athletics pro­gram. I appreciate the opportu­nity I had to serve as its athlet­ics director and wish tho ath­letes, coaches and athletics staff the very best in the future." 
Finus Gaston, senior associ­ate athletics director, will step in as interim director until the spot is filled permanently. Gaston, 48, has worked in cen­tral administration for 22 years. His relationship with the University began as the head manager for Bear Bryant's 1971-1973 football teams. Most recently, before joining the ath­letic department jn 1996, Gaston was assistant vice presi­dent for financial affairs. 
Gaston said Sorensen approached him on Sunday about taking the throne as 
athletic director. 
"I am grateful to Finus for his willingness to serve the University during this critical period," Sorensen said. "He holds three degrees from the University of Alabama, and his loyalty and support of the insti­tution is second to none. I know he will continue to provide effective leadership during th,~ interim period." 
Gaston said he would inherit all decision-making duties that the athletic director's job con­sists of, including the hiring and firing of personnel. 
"It's an awful lot of responsi­bility," Gaston said. "But opera­tions have to go on, plans have to be made and issues have to be addressed." 
Concerning the future status of one employee, Alabama head football coach Mike DuBose, Gaston said he is still behind the coach. 
"Mike DuBose is our head coach," Gaston said. "I support Mike even though we had a disappointing loss. They are working hard, and we will have a successful year." 
DuBose was uncertain if the dismissal of Bocki;ath would lead to rernoval_.if his job, .which has recently lacked any security due to an attempt to cover up his relationship with a female employee and his 13-13 head coaching record at Alabama. 

The Observer acceprs classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Norre Dame office, 
02-i.Souch Dining Hall. Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per characrer per d-ay, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right co edit
CLASSIFIEDS 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
FREE TRIPS AND CASH!!!  THAT PRETTY PLACE,  Phone Cards, 669 min/$20  +++  Struggling with self- 
SPRING BREAK 2000  Bed and Breakfast Inn has space  243-9361 or 258-4805  esteem?Frustrated with the oppo- 
NOTICES  available for football/parent wknds.  FOR SALE  site sex?Can't understand your  
StudentCity.com is looking for  5 Rooms with private baths, $80­ PRO-SPORT  N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS  roommates?Having trouble relax- 
Highly Motivated Students to pro­ $115, Middlebury, 30 miles from  5POSITION  CALL 271-9412  ing?Embarrassed about your family  
THE COPY SHOP  mote Spring Break 20001  campus. Toll Road Exit #107, 1­ SLANT BENCH  and their behavior?Feeling alone as  
LaFortune Student Center  Organize a small group and travel  800-418-9487.  Like New  NEED OKLAHOMA TICKETS!  a graduate student and wishing you  
PHONE 631-COPY  FREE!!Top campus  $30.00  CALL TIM, 634-0959  had more support?IF ANY OF  
www.CopyShopND.com  reps can earn a Free Trip & over  LOADED  Call Craig@ 246-1410  THESE QUESTIONS RING A BELL  
Store Hours  $10,00QIChoose Cancun,  6 Bedrm '00-01 yr.  SPRING BREAK 2000  WITH YOU­ 
Mon-Thur: 7:30am-K'lidnight Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm  Jamaica or Nassau! Book Trips On-Line.  273-0482 I 234-3831  TICKETS  "THE MILLENIUM"  CONSIDER JOINING A GROUP!The University Counseling  
Sat: Noon-6:00pm  Log In and win FREE stuff.  BED 'N BREAKFAST  WANTED:USCTIX  Center is currently screening indi- 
Sun: Noon-Midnight  Sign Up Now On Line!  REGISTRY  247-1659  v1duals with a variety of interperson­ 
www.StudentCity.com or  219-291-7153  ObseNer deliverer needs two GA  al concerns to join small,confidien­ 
800/293-1443  tix lo any home game. Call Jack at  Need tix for Navy. Ruy/trade.  tial groups as a way to learn about  
WANTED  Love animals?  AVAILABLE 2000-01 ,El-6 Student Rental. Large rooms,  C (219) 257-1141,  Call 251-0001 -Andy.  themselves and support others.Please call us at 631°-7336 to  
Landlord won't let you have a pet?  reasonable. awesome bonus room!!  I need two GA tix to ND vs. USC.  NEED: Oklahoma tickets for family.  get more information. ,  
STUDENT OPENINGS  Get your animal fix by volunteering  Details. Dave 291-2209.  Call Autumn al 284-5024.  x2795-John  
5-30 hrs./week. Flex. around  at Pet Refuge. The refuge is looking  FAX IT FAST!!!  
classes.  for volunteers to help feed and care  3-bdrm duplex, remodeled, 503  WANTED NOTRE DAME FOOT- Sending & Receiving  
Scholarships avail.  for dogs and cats. Call 256-0886 for  Eddy, 1 mi. from campus.  . BALL TICKETS  Need 3 USC tickets  at  
www.workforstudents.com/lN  more information.  Appliances, W/D. 273-8332.  271-1526  Please call Tom 634-1440  THE COPY SHOP  
282-2357  LaFortune Student Center  
2 Babysitters (preferably friends) for  5 bedroom house prime location  SELL & BUY GA FOOTBALL TICK- Need 1 Oklahoma & 1 Navy GA.  Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1  
DON'T WORK THIS SCHOOL  evening of Oct. 8 and during day of  105 Marquette Ave Available now  ETS  Call 4-2535  FAX IT FAST!!!  
YEAR! $1200 TO $2000  Ocl.9  232-6964  277-6619  
THIS MONTH.  (during ASU game) for 3 year old  Need 2 ASU Tickets  SOPHOMORE CLASS MASS  
Part time 4 to 6 hours per week.  and 9 mo. old. Must have some  WANTED·  Call Travis@ 319-241-1082  AND DINNER!!  
Ca1124 hrs  experience and be energetic. Good  FOR SALE  ND football tix.  Sunday, Sept. 26th  
(219) 239-6709  pay. Call Linda at 937-294-4857.  AM • 232-2378  NEED TWO GA TIX TO BC GAME  Mass at 4:30pm at the Grotto  
PM -288-2726  FOR PARENTS CALL KATIE AT 4­ (Rain Location: Lewis Hall Chapel)  
Help wanted at 4 Michiana loca·  Spring Break Specials!Bahamas  1422  Dinner 5:30pm-7:30pm in  
\tons. Great pay, Hex. hrs. No  HEAVENLY HAM  Party Cruise 5 Days $279! Includes  ND football tix for sale.  Lafortune Ballroom  
Sundays.  Immediate Openings for Energetic  Meals!  AM • 232-2378  WANTED! 2 pairs of tix and  
Apply in person  Individuals.  Awesome  PM -288-2726  Joyce/Stadium parking pass for  HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY, Molly,  
or send resume to:  Store Work Hours: M-F 7:30 to  Beaches.Nightlife'Cancun &  ASU. Call Alex Boyle@ 800-221­ Sarah, Heather, KELLEY OLIVO­ 
FRULLA Tl CAFE/UP MALL  5:30 Sat: 8:00 to 2:30  Jamaica 7 Nights From $399!  I NEED GA T!XS ALL HOME  7676 M-F 9-5  TO! Enjoy dropping your many  
6501 N. GRAPE RD. #576  No Sundays  Florida  GAMES.2726551  pseudonymns! Love. the girls!  
MISHAWAKA. IN 46545  Will schedule work around class­ $129!springbreaktravel.com  NEED 8 OKLAHOMA TIX  
es.Apply at 2307 Edison.  1-800-678·6386  BUYING and SELLING N D FOOT- sets of 4 or more wanted  Gata' -this is a shout out. love it.  
SPORTS CLUBS & STUDENT  288-4267  BALL TICKETS.  TOP$ Paid  live it. like It. lick it. no, not really.  
GROUPS­ FOR SALE N.D. FOOTBALL TIX  GREAT PRICES. CALL 289-8048  Colin x1627  
:-,  Earn $1000-2000 with easy CIS  CALL 271-9412  Countdown to Felicity in the  
Fund event.No sales required.Fur,d  FOR RENT  +++++++++++++++++++++++++++  Annunciata Lounge - 
Rasier days are filling up, so call today  FOR SALE N.D. FOOTBALL TIX  ++ N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS  PERSONAL  Invite only! (Or prove you're a devout fan). Rockin' sorority gets  
. Contact Joe  ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE  CALL 271-9412  BUY/SELL/TRADE  priority.  
@ 1-888-522-4350  HOME FOR ND-SMC EVENTS.  ALL GAMES  Gay, Lesbian and Bisexual  
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  LAKEFRONT BY OWNER, 3 bdrm.  ALL LOCATIONS  students of ND/SMC meeting each  Brooke, Julia and Sarah,  
Loving ND-SMC couple wishes to  243-0658.  ranch. lg den, 2 car gar., lull base- GREAT PRICES  Thurs. For info call:(877)631-60UT  here is an extra classified to make  
adopt. Will provide a lifetime of  ment, 3 seas. porch, deck. most ev.  271-9330  up for yesterday's missing classified  
laughter,love,devotion and opportu- HOMES CLOSE TO CAMPUS  new, much more. 15 mi. from cam­ !!NO STUDENT TICKETS!!  GRANDMOTHER WILL BABYSIT  sorry for the inconvience that your  
nities.  http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/  pus.  TICKETMART INC.  INHER HOME.  lack of free benefits from knowing  
800-484-4699 code 0019  232-2595  616-663-6308.  www .ndtickets.com  233-2704  me might have caused  
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++  

COME ALL DAY FOR 10 a.m. 
A Parade 
11 a.m. 
Student Ac1ivities Center 
,. 
Groundbreaking 
Noon to 3:00 p.m. 
Hands-on Science and Art, 
( _., 

e, , ,••,/~ 
.,.

Wellne&S Screening, ______ ., 
-.----­
Volunteer Expo 
Food (all day) 
9p.m. 
Fireworks 



The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 23, 1999 
NFL 
Giants work to get back on track against Pats 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. 
Jim Fassel didn't have to do anything special to get the New York Giants' attention in practice on Wednesday. 
After an embarrassing 29­poinl loss to the Washington Redskins on Sundav, the Giants (1-1) are a much more serious team heading into Sunday night's game against the New England Patriots (2­0). 
Usually in a two-hour prac­tice, players will crack jokes or say something to loosen Pveryone up. There wasn't much of that Wednesday. 
"We're going to see how we respond to adversity," All Pro defensive end Michael Strahan said. Mlt's easy when you are doing well and you beat a team like Tampa for everything to go great. But when you lose, and you lose by 29 points. that next week will show what you are made 
f .. 
o. 
While the Giants' offense has yet to show the big-play potential it exhibited in the preseason. New York's defense is the un.it on the spot this week. 
It's been the backbone of the Giants for almost two decades. If it does not play well, New York's chances of making thp, playoffs are slim. 
Washington had its way with the defense on Sunday, scoring relatively easy touch­downs on its first three pos­sessions in a 50-21 win. 
"More important than get­ting a win or loss, we have to go out and play Giants foot­ball," safety Sam Garnes said. "That's the No. 1 thing. As a defense. we want to cut down on the mistakes and go out and play well. You don't want to have two bad games in a row." 
Stopping Patriots quarrnr­back Drew Bledsoe is not 

.. 
going to he easy. He has passed for an NFL-high 639 yards and five touchdowns in rallying New England to victo­ry twice. 
For his part, Bledsoe is sus­picious of the Giants' perfor­mance last week. 
"I think they are going to come out and play inspired football to prove that last week was not the real Giants," Bledsoe said. "That was just a fluke, a one-time thing." 
If there is a key for New York this week, it will be get­ting pressure on Bledsoe. The front seven didn't do that to Brad Johnson, and the Redskins' quarterback hit his first eight passes in opening a 21-0 first-quarter lead. 
"They could have done any­thing," defensive line coach Denny Marcin said. "It was one of those things. We've been through them before, everyone has. They are not fun. You just have to roll up your sleeves, go to work and shake it out of your head." 
The good news for the Giants is that Jason Sehorn seems to be ready to play for the first time in 13 months. The right cornerback missed last season with a knee injury and had to sit out this entire prcseason and the first two games with a hamstring injury. 
"Don't look to me as a sav­
ior," Sehorn said after work­
ing out with the first team on 
Wednesday. "Look to me as a 
piece in the wheel. Don't look 
to me as the person who is 
going to come in and all of a 
sudden turn this ship 
around." 
Sehorn might not do that, 
but he is a lot better than 
Jeremy Lincoln, who had to 
be replaced on Sunday 
because he played so poorly. 
Playing a nationally tele­
vised game on Sunday night 
also has gotten the Giants 
more excited . 
ATTENTION 
UNDERGRADUATE 
AND GRADUATE 

STUDENTS 
WORLDWIDE 
'.CENTER.CO 
PURSUE JOB AND INTERNSHIP OPPORTUNITIES 
THAT SPAN THE GLOBE 




Thursday, September 23, 1999 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 
Calendar of Events .. 
Freshman retreat #24 
Friday-Saturday, September· 
Folk Choir Mini Tour 
Friday-Saturday. September 4 Parish, Spring Valley, IL Vespers, Eucharist & Gonce 
Asian American First Year send-off dinner with the As 
Friday-Saturday, September 
Latino Freshmen Retreat 
Friday-Sunday, Septembet Development in Ministry, 
Notre Dame Encounter 
Friday-Sunday, Septembtir.i Center· 
Commissioning of Mlnls~ri Acolytes, Eucharistic Mlols·· Ministers and Ushers + Saturday-Sunday, Septe' Basilica of the Sacred He 
' 31· 

Freshman Retreat #25 (N9v.~i, 
Beginning Sept. 27 thr<iughN9 103 Hesburgh Library. 112'Badin. Targeted Dorms: Alumni, 8fl?:8n:oPhHlffbs,ipmo 
Howard, Keough; Lyons, McGUnn ·· · and Sorin 
Campus Bible Study 
Tuesday, September 28;7:Q() p 
Information Night on HolYCrQss Brothers 
Tuesday, September 28 Mass, discussion with F Gary Chamberland, C.S Pizza and Pop will be served · · Who's invited: Everyone! 
Interfaith Christian Night Pra 
Wednesday, September 29, 1 Hall Chapel A spirit-filled, student-fed pow .. . . ·.. and music for students of all Christi tions. 
.ii'iiii? 

TWENTY-SIXTH SUNDAY IN OROINARYtf' ee en res ers at Sacred Heart Basilica Saturday, September 25· 
Mass 5:00 pm Rev. David J.Scheidl 
Mass 10:00a.m. Rev. David J..Scheidler,< 
11:45 a.m. 
Sunday, September 26· Vespers 7:15 p.m. Rev. Peter D. Rocca, G.$.C. 
Scripture Readings for this coming Sunttayt~ 
1st Reading Ezekiel 18:25-28 2nd Reading Phiiippians2:1,-i1 
Gospel Matthew 21:28-32 · 
What Are We Building Here? 
Jim Lies, C.S.C. 

Even if you aren't planning to go on a service trip this corning break, this article is about you. It's about each and every one of you. You'll only know how or why after wandering your way through the ponderings of a wayward traveller. I leave you, therefore, with only one option: to read on. 
During fall break three years ago, I was able to travel to Appalachia as part of a joint effort to bring students an9 alumni together for a work project, sponsored jointly by the Center for Social Concerns and the Office of Alumni Community Service. There were a few things that we knew about the under­taking when we began, but there was much that we didn't know. We knew that we would be working together, nearly twenty of us in all; we knew that we would be working with an organization called the Christian Appalachian Project (CAP); and we knew that we would be doing some type of construc­tion work (however unprepared we knew ourselves to be for such tasks). What we didn't know, and what we didn't know we didn't know, was how much this trip, this veritable adventure, would mean to us as a community and as Christians. 
There is something in all of us that wants to do something noble, something beyond the ordinary. Especially as Christians, we know ourselves to be called beyond ourselves to act with justice, to lift up the poor, to shelter the homeless. Over time, we have been prodded, called, and sometimes even guilted (if I may create a verb) into service. No matter how, most of us have come to a place in our lives where we know that there is something in us that cannot be contented with living only for ourselves. It is just such a longing that often compels one to make the choice to spend a week of one's fall break somewhere other than at home or some other place where we can be virtually assured of a good time. On the surface there is a definite risk in choosing to spend a week with relative strangers in an unfamiliar land help­ing people whom we have yet to meet. There is something courageous and noble about it, too. 
It is selfish, too. There is a degree to which such work provides an opportunity for us to satisfy that within ourselves which needs satisfaction, that space or place within us that needs to feel good about me. In the end, however, the experience, and the grace that comes with it, does not allow us to stop there. Our world is inevitably reoriented, our focus redirected and our hearts broken open. Whatever our reasons for going, in the end there is an inevitable movement toward the recognition of ourselves as builders of something far greater than houses. 
On the way we met many whose lives of committed service humbled us in the face of our own feeble commitment. We met many who found con­tentment in a life with far fewer of the "necessities" of life. And we met each other. At the outset, we were two groups, alumni and students, brought together by Notre Dame, intending to do our part to save the world. In the end we were forced to recognize the commonality of us all. Not only among our group of alumni and students, but with the people of the region as well. They were poor, but in so many ways, so were we; we were rich, but in so many ways, so were they. We were forced to assess the measures we use to calibrate wealth, and to consider what it is that will bring happiness. In the end, our hopes of saving the world could only be fully realized by the recog­nition that our salvation was wrapped up with theirs. We, too, were being saved, by the wisdom of a people, the beauty of a landscape, and by the grace that brought us all together. I am reminded of the words of an Aborigine woman who said: "If you have come to help me, you are wasting your time. But if you have come because your liberation is bound up with mine, then let us work together." 
So, what does all this have to do with you? That's something y'all'll have to work out. I have to believe that all of us feel called to something more. It may not be to build houses in Appalachia, but it is to build the Kingdom right here on this campus, right now. How each of us goes about doing that isn't always clear; sometimes it seems downright impossible to figure out. The fact remains that we're not in this alone, and if Campus Ministry or the Center for Social Concerns or the Office of Alumni Community Service can be of any help at all, as you make your way through Notre Dame and beyond, then let us do that for you. Come build with us. 
...
l¦I 
0MPUS 
MINISTRY 
• 
' t •• t •• 

• 
' f t I ' " f t


·-... .. ., ,
~ 

page 20 The Observ;r . SPORTS Thursday, September 23, 1999 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Hokies take on Tigers in national spotlight 

Associaced Press 
BLACKSBURG, Va. 

The national spotlight is something Virginia Tech has openly craved during its rise intu almost weekly resilience in thr top 25. 
With non-conference sched­ules that have included the likes of Akron, Alabama­Birmingham and Arkansas State in recent years, and play­ing in a eonfernnce that has been declining in stature, expo­sure has often been hard to come hy. 
That all changes Thursdav night when Lane Stadium will be the site of thP Hokks' gam(i against tradition-rich C:lemson. ESPN will televise nationally. 
No disrespect to Clemson (l­1). but the Hokies come in ranked No. 8, the highest in school history, and don't expect to waste the opportunity to show the country that Virginia Tech football is a burgeoning phenomenon. 
"I think it's going to be prob­ably the greatest atmosphere we've ever had at Virginia Tech," coach Frank Beamer, in his 12th season, said Tuesday. 
"If you don't want to play in front of a big crowd and a national audience, you shouldn't be playing college football," linebacker Jamel Smith added. "You've got to get excited for this." 
The Hokies (2-0) have had 10 days to watch tapes of how the Tigers picked apart Virginia two weeks ago, beating them 33-14 in Death Valley as Brandon Streeter enjoyed a career day with 343 passing yards and two touchdowns. 
But they also have sweet memories of a year ago. Last September at Clemson, the Hokies rattled Streeter early and romped to a stunning 37-0 virtorv. 
Defensive end Corey Moore said Tuesday he knows Clemson was fpeJing pretty good after routing the Cavaliers, but the Virginia Tech defense that interceptPd fom· passes off Streeter in 1998 won't be any kinder this time. 
'Tm glad that those guys are feeling confident, but they haven't seen anybody play defense or swarm to the ball likA we're going to," Moore said Tuesday. 
The Tigers under first-year coach Tommy Bowdfm sur­prised Virginia with a no-hud­dle, pass-oriented attack and kept them on their heels throughout. 
After losing 13-10 at home to Marshall in their opener, the victory over Virginia was a big step for the Tigers, Bowden said. But it's nothing compared to what the program could gain for its rise back to prominence Thursday night. 


OLYMPICS 

Source: Welch wants to cut deal 
Associated Press 
SJ\LT LAKE CITY 
Salt Lake's top Olympic bid­der is unlikely to get immunity from federal prosecutors in exchange for testimonv against International Olympi~~ Committee members. 
A source close to Tom Welch, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Wednesday the former head of the Salt Lake Organizing Committee would consider trading his tes­timony against TOC officials for immunity. 
The source said Welch would cut the deal for his own protection, not because he would admit to any crimes. 
Wrich and his lawyer, Tom Schaffer. have not pitched an immunity deal to the Justil:e Department, nor have they been contacted by federal prosecutors or the FBl during the 10-month investigation. 
A Justice DP-partm()nt source, also speaking Wednesday on condition of anonymity. said department officials have no intention of giving immunity to Welch, who is considered the chief target of a federal grand jury probe. 

Schaffer was traveling and didn't return phonfl messages relayed by his secretary. 
Welch was prepared to give Richard Wicdis. the Justice Department lawyer leading the Olympic investigation, infor­mation he gave an ethics panel for the SLOC. 
That panel detailed $1.2 mil­lion in girts and favors Welch and others lavished on voting members of the lOC and their relatives. 
Welch has insisted the inducements were normal for Olympic bidding and fall short of criminal bribery. 
Welch figures in charges already filed against two oth­ers accused of shadowy Olympic dealings. 
Ile is the unidentified Salt Lake hid committee officer in an indictment handed up earli­er this month against the son of IOC executive board mem­ber Kim Un-yong. 
John Kim was indicted on 17 felony charges of fraudulently obtaining a permanent U.S. visa or green card and using it to travel frequently to the United States. Kim, who had returned to South Korea before he was indicted, keeps a house on New York's Long Island. · 
Salt Lake businessman David Simmons acknowledged setting up a phony job in New York for Kim, using money funneled from the bid commit­tee. 
Simmons pleaded guilty in August to tax fraud for deduct­ing Kim's salary from his taxes as a business expense. 
Simmons said he hired Kim as a favor to Welch, who was then the president of the bid­committee and later the SLOC until he was forced to resign in 1997 amid spouse-abuse charges. 
Welch's name is on some of the checks to Simmons' fonnflr company, Keystone Communications, for Kim's salary. 

~CUT HEIEANDHANG ON DOORKNOB----,--_________________ -------• 

Dear _____ the grouch, 
There's something you should know. In the morning, you are unbelievably grumpy. 
And that's putting it very, very nicely. 
So, because I like you, may I suggest you start the day with a CROISSAN'WICH" from BURGER KING: It's filled with mouthwatering 
sausage, egg and cheese. And that should make anyone less cranky. Even you. If it doesn't, then we're on to Plan B. And you don't want to know Plan B. 
Sincerely, ______ 

THE DELICIOUS CROISSAN'WICH: 
The Huddle -LafortL.ne Student Center 

It just tastes better: ·---~----------------------------------------------~ 
www.burgerking.com LIMITED TIME ONLY PRICE AND PARTICIPATION MAY VARY. DURING BREAKFAST HOURS ONLY. 
019'1l lU1GER 1Ct<G CORPOIVillON l>JRGfR KING COAl'ORA1111 ISM El(tll.$NE LJC€NSEE Of M •rr JUST TA.ITES B€TIEl1" TlWlEIMRKAND 11£ REGISIH1ED BURGER KJt«l. CPOISSANWlCH NlJ BUN HAil/ES LOGO TllA[)EMAAl(S 
page 21

Thursday, September 23, 1999 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
What•s Happening in The Student Union This Week: 


Class Mass Sunday, September 26 @ 8pm 
at the Grotto 
Zev 
Kedem 


In the LibraryAuditorium $1 (students) $3 (non-students) Wednesday, September29@ 7:30 PM 
Experience the life ofZEV KEDEM, a survivor ofthe Holocaust. He later collaborated with Steven Speilberg on "Schindler's List" 
Race 
Saturday, 
September 25,@2pm At the McGlinn ~ 
~ .F;I;. I 

FUN
fOT WEEK 
_~c;S OF~a
<Y r) 


Class Dinner > "Must See 1V" Night 
September 23 from6-Bpm in Lafortune Ballroom 



Every Thursday@ 9pm in The Huddle 


Hall Dances On Friday,September 24 
Badin, Farley, Fisher, Howard, Knott, Morissey, Pangborn, Sorin 
FRIDAY, Sept24 
Chuck E Cheese-10 FREE Putt Putt@ Putt PuttandGames 1FREE roundpercouple
Tokenspercouple 

Dinner@ Study's Lounge orPapa Vino's 1 FREE appetizer Movies 14 $4 admission all night 

J!l!F~J I 
e,v-l'J~ 
-Service Trip to the "Center For The Homeless" on Saturday, 
September 25 -Class Mass, September 26 @430pm at the Grotto -Class Dinner after Mass, Septerr,ber 26 @6pm in Lafortune Ballroom. $1 for Taco Bell! "Resume and Career lnformatio Fair11 Thursday, September 30 in Flanner Hall 
$2 at Cushing Auditorium 
1hursda~ September23 
@1030pm Friday and Saturday @Bpm and 1030pm 



Hall Dances On Saturday,September 25 
BP, Dillon, McGlinnl O'Neill, Keough 
l1111i 
SATURDAY, Sept 25 
Dinner@ Yesterday's-1 FREE dessertpercouple Dinner@Papa Vino's-1 FREE appetizerpercouple Movies 14 $4 admission allnight 
,. 
l_ 
.. .. 





r 
I 
I 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 23, 1999 
NFL 
Sanders' pro future uncertain 
. Father of former Lions running back wants son to break rushing record 
Associated Press 
DETROIT 

The father of Harry Sanders says his son should return to the Detroit Lions long enough to break Walter Payton's :'JFL rushing record. 
He plans to make the pitch this weekend. 
William Sanders also said Wednesday he understands the Lions' reluctance to trade his son. 
"If I were the Lions, l wouldn't trade Barry Sanders, either," hfl said from his home in Wichita, Kan. 
The elder Sanders said his son is supposed to visit this weekend. 
"He's in for a father-and-son talk," William Sanders said. 'Tm going to advise him to go back to Detroit. No situation is so bad you can't go back." 
.As far as the Lions are con­cerned, Sanders has retired ­and that's it. 
While watching practice Wednesday at the Silverdome in Pontiac, Lions owner William Clav Ford Sr. said he had more pressing concerns than the Sanders situation. 
"Nobody's heard from him, so we don't know what he real­ly thinks," Ford told radio sta­tion WWJ. "It's just pure specu­lation. 
'Tm going by what he said -his desire 1o not play is stronger than his desire to play. ... But he's history as far as we're concerned now." 
The 31-year-old running back was 1,458 yards short of breaking Payton's career record when he retired July 28. Since then, the Lions have demanded that he repay $5.6 million of the $11 million sign­ing bonus he got when he signed a six-year, $36 million contract in 1997. 
Sanders' agmts, David Ware 

WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
Varnell takes assistant position for Irish squad 
Special to The O berver 
Christy Yarnell, the top goalkeeper in the history of the University of Richmond, has been named Irish assis­tant women's lacrosse coach at the University of Notre Dame, Irish head coach Tracy Coyne announced on Wednesday. 
Yarnell replaces Kathleen Ostar. who served as assis­tant coach for the 1999 sea­son, and will work closely with the Notre Dame goal­keepers. 
"We are very excited to have Christy as a member of our staff," said Coyne, who begins her fourth year as head coach of the program she started in 1996. "She has a very sound, fundamental knowledge of goalkeeping and is really going to help fine tune our goalkeepers. Her personality will be a ni•ce addition to our staff, and she will be able to relate well to our players." 
Yarnell graduated from Richmond in 19()9 with a degree in studio art and a 
minor in education. 
She started every game in her career and broke almost every Spider goalkeeping record during her career, including career saves (678). single-season saves (252), career save percentage (.559) and single-season save per­centage (.582). 
The Boothwyn, Pa., native, captained the team her senior year and played 707 of 840 total minutes in '99, saving 188 shots for a .536 save per­centage. 
Yarnell, who has staffed the Point Blank Goalkeeping Camp since 1996, played with the United States under-19 national team at the 1995 World Championships. 
She served as a member of the Richmond Student-Athlete Advisory Committee from 1997-99 and was president of the organization during her senior year. 
Yarnell also was a four­year starting goalkeeper on the Spider field hockey tellms and was a two-time Colonial Athletic Association all-con­ference field hockey selec-. tion. 
Lor.i's Riding Stable 
Lori Moore~Owner 
3912 Nimtz Parkway Soutt, Bend, IN 4&628 (219) 232-0608 

100 Acres of wooded trails Best bl:J Appointment 

.. 
10 mii,utes west of ND No Experiei,ce Necessary 

and Lamont Smith, say their client must be tradod or grant­ed free agency before any money is returned. The club· says it will not give up its rights to Sanders. 
Sanders will have to decide on his own wh,ithcr to end his retirement, his father said. 
"He's a man," the elder Sandors said. "If he was 15, I would tell him." 
The dispute has gone to arbi­tration. 
William Sanders told The Detroit News he would advise his son to "return the money and go about his business" if he chooses to remain retired. 
Ware said Tuesday he was familiar with reports of William Sanders' plans to try to talk with his son about rejoining the Lions. But Ware said Sanders still has not said anything about returning to football. 
William Sanders said he would advise his son that he return to the Lions on the con­dition that he be traded after breaking Payton's record. 
PGA 
Duval, Wood team up for Ryder practice 
Associated I'ress 
BROOKLINE. Mass. 
David Duval and Tiger Woods have spent a lot of time with each other this week at The Country Club -in their press conference, but more significant­ly inside the ropes. 
Woods and Duval have been in the same foursome for two straight days of practice for the Ryder Cup, and captain Ben Crenshaw has been toying with the idea of sending out the top two players in the world as a formidable team. 
"It's certainly a possibility," he said. "I don't know that you're going to see that pairing in the first round. But it's very safe to say that both of them are going to play a lot." · 

Woods only smiled and said, "We'll see," when asked he might be paired with Duval. 
One school of thought is that a Woods-Duval team might send a message that the United States wants to come out with both guns. blazing. Then again, it could backfire, since there are no greater scalps than the top two players in the world . 
European captain Mark James doesn't subscribe to either. 
"If two of our guys beat them, that's a fantastic win," he said. "But I don't think it's going to be affecting the end result of the matches. If a pair wins or loses one match, I don't think it will reduce one team to tears." 
The teams must submit pair­ings Thursday afternoon for the first round of alternate-shot matches. 


Thursday, September 23, 1999 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 23 

The Symposium on Catholic Teaching, Sweatshops, and Notre Dame 
Monday evening, September 27, 7:00-8:~0 p.m. at the Hesburgh Center Auditorium (on Notre Dame Avenue--not the library) 
Presenters: 
Todd David Whitmore, UND Task Force, Director, Program in Catholic Social Tradition 
"Catholic Teaching and Sweatshops: An Overview" 
I 

James Keady, Former graduate, Assistant Soccer Coach, St. John's University 
"Nike and Catholic Social Teaching: A Challenge to the Christian Mission of St. Johns University" 
• 
•

For further information contact Professor Todd Whitmore: Whitmore. I@nd.edu 
Sponsored by: Task Force on Anti-Sweatshop Initiatives, Program in Catholic Social Tradition, Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, Higgins Labor Research Center, Department of Theology 
.. 


The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 23, 1999 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 

Wright, Thollle lead Cleveland to 9-1 routing of Detroit 
double in the ninth. but recovered to win his fifth lineup had at least one hit -forced out at home on a 
Associated Press 

straight start. He allowed four by the end of the game, every grounder to Florie.
Orioles 7, Rangers 4 

DETROIT runs and 10 hits in flight-plus Blue Jays batter had an RBI.
On the day Cal Ripken was Jaret Wright allowed two hits lost for the season, leaving him innings. The Blue Jays, who had just 
in seven innings and Jim The Orioles rallied from a 4-three hits in a 3-0 loss Tuesday Twins 5, Athletics 4 
nine hits short of 3,000, the 

Thome's two-run double keyed 1 deficit against Rick Helling night to Pedro Martinez, The Minnesota Twins scored
Baltimore Orioles beat the 

a four-run Cleveland first as (13-10), taking a 6-4 lead in chased Pat Rapp (6-7) after he three times on bases-loaded
Texas Rangers for their 13th 

the Indians pounded the the fifth on Johnson's two-run allowed singles to the first four walks in a five-run seventh to
straight victory.

Detroit Tigers 9-1 Wednesday homer and Anderson's shot. batters in the second. win over the Athletics, further
The Orioles announced dur­

night. Garcia homered in the sec­Bryce Florie took over but dimming Oakland's eroding
ing the game that Ripken

Wright {8-9), who was win­ond inning and Belle added a was victimized by three errors playoff hopes.
would be sidelined by back 

less in six starts since July 6, solo homer in the seventh. on the first four batters as The A's entered play
problems.

allowed one urn~arned run. He Toronto added six runs in the Wednesday five games behind
He will have surgery 
the Roston Red Sox in the AL

issued one walk and matched second.
Thursday morning in Cleveland Blue Jays 14, Red Sox 9 
his season-high with eight David Segui's RBI single in wild-card race and 5 1/2
to relieve pressure on a nflrve Shawn Green hit his 40th 
strikeouts. the third and Green's homer in games back of Texas in the AL
that has been causing him dis­home run and Toronto com­the fifth made it 10-2. West. Boston and Texas both
The Indians, who clinched 

comfort. bined 22 hits and five Boston played later Wednesday.
the AL Central title on Sept. 8, Ripkon traveled to Cleveland errors to stop the RP.ct Sox and Kelvim Escobar (13-11) had four runs and five hits off allowed four hits in the first six 
The attendance of 9,895 

on Wednesday to visit special­staIJ their drive to the playoffs. 
innings. brought the total for the three•
13rian Moehler (9-16) in the ist Dr. Henry Bohlman after Toronto endPd its seven­

first. He gave up runs in the sec­game series to 22,905.
experiencing back spasms game losing streak and 
The A's drew 59,958 for a

Moehler, seeking his first win ond on Troy O'L<rnry's 28th
overnight. The All-Star third snapped Boston's winning six-game homcstand that start­
since Aug. 30, gave up single homer and the fourth on Mike
baseman made his first two streak at six. The Rod Sox still Stanley's KB! single. ed wilh three games againstruns in the second. fifth and 
trips to the disabled list this kept their live-game lead in the sixth, falling behind 7-1. The Blue Javs added four the Kansas City Royals. 
season. wild-card race over Oakland,
Moflhler allowed seven runs runs in the seventh for a 14-2 The Athletics, whose sale to
Baltimore's winning streak which lost to Minnesota.. 
and 13 hits in six innings. lead before the Red Sox scored local buyers was tabled last
matches the second-longest in But Boston fell four games week by baseball ow,rnrs, h'aveIn the first, Hoberto Alomar five times in the boLtorn of the
team history, trailing only a behind New York in the AL 
inning. drawn 1,370,692 fans this sea­
had an RBI single, Thome 

14-game stting from Aug. 12-East. The Yankees beat 
son -an average of 17,573

drove in two with a double up With rain falling hard, Jon
27, 1973. The Orioles also won Chicago 5-4. 
the gap in center and Harold Nunnally hit an RBI double in per game -even though the
13 in a row from May 31-June Tl.rn Blun Jays. who had lost A's have the best home recordBaines had an RBI single. the Boston ninth.
14, 1978. six in a row ai Fcnway Park, The Blue Jays scored two in the AL with a 50-28 mark.
Alomar had another RBI sin­Texas lost its third in a row. maintained their slim playoff

gle in the second, Travis runs in the first, one when The Twins scoi'ed all their
The Rangers' magic number hopes.
Fryman drove in the fifth­Damon Buford overran a ball runs with two outs in the sev­
for clinching the AL West is at Toronto will be eliminated if 
in center field that allowed enth, an inning in which theinning run with a groundout 
six after the second-place they Jose a game or the Red 
and Baines had an RBI single Jose Cruz Jr. to score from sec­A's used five pitchers.
Oakland lost 5-4 to Minnesota. Sox win one. 
in the sixth. ond on Green's single. Green An Oakland error. a hit bats­
Charles Johnson and Brady Hoston committed four of its 
Juan Encarnacion, who took third on the error and man and four walks led to the
Anderson hit consecutive season-high five errors in the 
reached in the Detroit fifth scored on Carlos Delgado's sin­Minnesota runs.
homers in the fifth inning for first two innings. That led to 
gle. Jacque Jones and Matt
when right-fielder Manny 

the Orioles. five unearned runs and an 8-l Lawton had RBI singles in the
Ramirez misplayed his routine Albert Belle hit his 35th Toronto lead. Consecutive singles in the fly for a three-base error, second by Willis Otanez, Wells, inning, while Marty Cordova,
homer and Jesus Garcia hit his Green and Vernon Wells 
Homer Bush and Cruz pro­Ron Coomer and pinch-hitter
scored an unearned run on 

first in the majors. each had four hits. By the time 
Brent Gates all walked with the

Damion Easley's RBI grounder. duced two runs and knocked
Scott Erickson (l 5-11) gave the third inning was done, 
bases loaded against Tim

Sandy Alomar had a two-run up four runs in the first inning everyone in Toronto's starting out Happ. Bush was then Worrell and Buddy Groom. 

Mix it up with 1200 others from the Class of 2000 
TONIGHTand EVERY THURSDAYtor 
OG@@~lJ[s@[ru@~§ 
$1COVER 
(with college I.D., must be 21)

COLLeGe DIGHT 
SOUTH BEND'S BIGGEST PARTY 
~• ID]

~ 222 S. Michigan • South Bend • (219) 234-5200 www.ACEplaces.com/heartland Call the Heartland Concert & Event Line (219) 251-2568 
Thursday, September 23, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Sosa, Maguire come up short in head-to-head battle 
A»ocialcd Press 
CHICAGO 

liven with the wind whipping out al Wrigley Fiold on a perfect day for homc runs. Sammy Sosa and Mark MeGwire couldn't clear the fence Wednesday. _ 
McCwirc went O-for-3 with two walks. Sosa, who still leads the homer derby 61-59, also walked twice in au O-l'or-2 clay as thP Chicago Cubs heat t}w St. Louis Cardinals 5-3. 
l'he two hnme run rivals will go hnad-to-head thre!1 mores times. in tlw final season series at Busch Stadium. 
McGwirn finished the three-game snrics 1-f'or-10 and Sosa was 1-for-9. McGwirn hit his 59th homer Monday, had Lhree walks and six strikeouts. 
Sosa, who hit into two double plays Wednesday. walked thrP-e timns and 111a11agcd only one single in tho series. Ile did come close tu a homer in the seventh inning. 
lie S<)lll a long drive to right center, but center riflldcr J.IJ. Drew jumped into th!\ ivy to c'a!ch tlrn ball as Cardinals right fielder 'rhomas Howard collided with him. 
Drew then thrnw quickly to the infield and Craig Paquette's relay to thf! plate nailed Mickey Morandini, who was trying to score from second. 
McGwire walked on 3-2 pitches in his first two at-bats against Steve Trachsel (7-17), who surrendered the Cardinals slugger's historic 62nd honwr last season. 
The many St. Louis fans at Wrigley Field didn't like it. booing the right­hander who is trying to avoid the major league's first 20-loss season since 1980. IIn struck out McGwire on another 3-2 pitch in the {1fth. 
McGwire swung al a 3-0 pitch from 
reliever Bobby Ayala in the seventh and hit play. Rick Aguilera pitched the ninth for his sixth save. 
Sosa grounded into a double play, then walked twice off Garrett Stephenson (6-21, bringing more boos from a crowd that came to see a home run, not a bases on balls. 
Mark Grace hit a go-ahead two-run triple in the fifth, an inning that began with Trachsel's single after Cardinals catcher l\larcus Jensen dropped his foul popup for an error. 
Two outs later, Sosa walked and Grace hit a liner to right that eluded Howard and went to the wall. putting the Cubs ahead 4-2. Howard hit his sixth homer in the sixth, making it a one-run game, but Chicago's Jeff Blauser hit a solo homer in the seventh to restore the two-run lead. 
Jensi,n's first homer of the season gave the Cards a 1-0 lead in the sec­ond. The Cubs scored twice against Stephenson in the bottom of the inning on an RBI single by Hoosevelt Brown and sacrifice fly by .Jose Nieves. Fernando Tatis' sacrifice l1y tied it in the third. 
Expos 5, Marlins 3 

Orlando Merced and his _replace­ment, James Mouton, each hit two-run doubles and the Montreal Expos beat the Florida Marlins. 
The Marlins had won five in a row against Montreal, including a double­header sweep Tuesday, 
Miguel Batista (8-7) earned his CTrst victory as a starter since June 11. 
He pitched five shutout innings of three-hit ball before Anthony Telford relieved to start the sixth. · 
Batista made his first start since giv­ing up seven runs in one inning 

THE BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP 
We are pleased to announce the following events: 
Information Session 
Thursday, September 23 
Stadium Room, University Club 
7:00 p.m. 
Resume drop dates (Go Irish System): Start: Monday, September 27 End: Friday, October 8 
www.bcg.com 

against Atlanta on June 28. Ugueth Urbina got his 39th save. 
Vladimir Nunez (6-10) went 7 2/3 innings, allowing four runs and four hits. 
After striking out Chris Widger and Geoff Blum to open the third, Nunez gave up singles to Batista and Rondell Wbite. Mert:ed followed with a double into the left-field corner. 
Mouton pinch-hit for Merced in the eighth against Jesus Sanchez, doubling home Mike Mordecai and White for a 4-0 lead. 
Mike Lowell homered on Montreal reliever Steve Kline's first pitch in the eighth. llrbina took over with two on and no outs, and gave up Dave Berg's run-scoring single and Cliff Floyd's RBI grounder. Widger added an RBI single in the ninth. 
Pirates 3, Astros 2 

Todd Hitchie outpitched 20-game winnrr Josr Lima and the Pittsburgh Pirates turned two unusual double plays in as many innings to slow Houston's run at a third straight divi­sion title, beating the Astros. 
The Pirates, playing without 39­homPr hitter Brian Giles, who will miss the rest of the 
season with a broken finger, took two of three from the NL Central-lead­ing Astros. They began their final homestand of the season by winning two of three from second-place Cincinnati. 
The Astros, still not able to pull away from the Reds in the division race, lost their fifth in seven games. They began the night with a 3 1/2-game lead over Cincinnati, which played later at San Diego. 
Lima (20-9) lost his second start in a row since becoming the fifth 20-game winner in Astros' history despite hold­ing the Pirates to three runs and five hits and striking out 10 in eight innings. He was coming off his worst start of the season, an 11-8 loss to St. Louis in which he lasted 3 2/3 innings. 
Ritchie (14-9), in the minors when the season began and never a starter before this year, won his team-high 14th decision by limiting the Astros to two runs and six hits and striking out 10 in his second complete game. He has won four of his last five decisions. 
Ritchie was helped by some good defense and some bad Houston baserunning that halted a pair of Astros threats. 
With the score tied at 2 in the sixth, Stan .Javier and Carl Everett singled around Jeff Bagwell's strikeout. Ken Caminiti walked. Javier then broke for the plate on Daryle Ward's slow-hit grounder to first baseman Kevin Young and was called out on a close play. 
Rather than holding at third, Everett came nearly halfway down the line and was tagged out by catcher Joe Oliver to complete the double play. 
An inning later, Ricky Gutierrez sin­gled with one out and Lima attempted to bunt him up. 
But Oliver gambled by throwing to second rather than taking the sure out at first and his ·throw just beat Gutierrez. With Lima running at less than full speed up the line, shortstop 
Abraham Nunez's throw to first beat him by more than a step. 
Diamondbacks 11, Rockies 3 
\laH Williams homered and drove in four runs and Andy Benes pitched eight strong innings and had three RBIs as the Arizona Diamondbacks 
· drew closer to clinching the NL West division title with a victory over the Colorado Rockies. . Arizona, in just its second season. lowered its magic number for clinch­ing the NL West to two. Tlrn Diamondbacks b11gan the day with a nino7gamo lead over second­place San Francisco. Williams, who is 23-for-61 with four home runs and 14 RBJs in his last 14 games, hit a three-run homer, his 
35th, and has a r.areer-high 137 HBis. 
Jay Bell and Steve Pinley added two 
hits each for the Diamondbat:ks, win­
ners of 13 of their last 17 games. 
Benes (12-12) gave up three runs 
and seven hits, struck out four and 
walked one. He hit a two-run single in 
the fifth and walked with the bases 
loaded in tbe seventh. 
Bon Petrick drove in three runs with 
a pair of home runs. Colorado manag­
er Jim Leyland rested Uante Bichette, 
Vinny Castilla and NL-batting leader 
Larry Walker. 
The Diamondbacks scored four runs 
in the first inning against Luther 
Hackman for (1-1). 
Williams homered with one out and 
Steve Finley added an RBI triple. 
Benes retired the first six battPrs he 
faced in a lirieup that included six 
players that began the season at ... 
Triple-,\ Colorado Springs. 
Edgard Clemente led off the third 
inning with a single to center and 
Petrick follo,ved with a home run to 
left. The Diamondbacks increased 
their lead to 7-2 in the fifth inning on 
Benes' single. 
Petrick hit his second home run of 
the game in the fifth, for his fourth 
homer and first career multihomer 
game. Arizona used three walks and a 
single to score twice in the seventh 
inning. Mike Porzio walked Erubiel 
Durazo, gave up a single to Finley and 
walked Kelly Stinnett to load bases. 
Dave Wainhouse replaced Porzio and walked Benes and gave up a sacrifice fly. Williams and Stinnett had RBI dou­bles in the eighth inning. 
Braves 5, Mets 2 
For a team involved in its first 
September pennant race since 1993, ... 
the Atlanta Braves look right at home. 
Chipper Jones homered again, pinch­hrtter Keith Lockhart broke a seventh­inning tie with a sacrifice fly and the Braves extended their NL East lead to three games over New York, beating the Mets. 
Tom Glavine (12-11) worked seven strong innings, his performance tar­nished onlv bv Mike Piazza's two-run homer in .the fourth. The 1998 Cy Young winner won for the only second time in his last eight starts. 
The Braves began the three-game series with a slender one-game over New York, but they've taken a major step toward extending their unprece­dented streak of seven straight divi­sion titles. The Mets still have hope: the teams meet again next week in a three-game series at Shea Stadium. 
New York had a 3 1/2-game lead in the wild-card race over Cincinnati, which played later at San Diego. 
The Braves haven't played such a meaningful game at this time of year since 19 93, when .they beat San Francisco by one game in the NL West. Since the strike-shortened '94 season, Atlanta has won four straight East titles by an average margin of 14 games. 
Jones was serenaded with chants of "MVP! MVP! MVP" after his 44th homer, a two-run shot in the first that gave the Braves a quick lead. It was his third homer in two days against the Mets, following up a pair of solo shots in the series opener that accounted for both Atlanta runs in a 2­1 victorv. 
After ·Piazza's homer tied the game at 2, the Braves squeezed out the go­ahead run in tho seventh against Orel Hershiser (13-11). With ono out, Andruw Jones and Eddie Perez hit consecutivo sing!es.before Lockhart, batting for Walt Weiss, sent a low liner to center. 
Darryl Hamilton made a sliding catch, but had no chance of gAtting the speedy Jones at the plate. 
The Braves escaped a major jam during a wild eighth. The Mets loaded the bases with one out, but Terry IV!ulholland -the fourth Atlanta pitch­er of the inning -struck out Bnbby Bonilla and retired Todd Pratt on a grounder to second. 

.._,,,_.~-------------------­
page 26 
The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 23, 1999 
moment, a "boo" emerges from 

two big first down passes sion. 
their lips. 

across the middle. On their next series, the
Chorney 
Football
It hurts them so badly that 

With 30 seconds left and Pyros maneuvered the ball 
they're not afraid to let others 

overtime looming, the Lyons down-field with scrambles
continued from page 28 
continued from page 28
know how disappointed they are 

quarterback launched a 35-and short passes before 
in their team. 

yard bomb to captain Katie Plummer struck again with a 
a fair weather fan and a real fan 
13ut they still love their team. 

little time left on the clock. Yanez for the 6-0 win. 20-yard TD pass.
is distinct, but somehow, the 
What? What's that you say? 
Lewis got the ball back
Walsh vs. Lyons
lines have been blurred, blurred 
You say that real fans can see 
with time running down in

The second game of the Pasquerilla East vs. Lewis
to such an extent that real defin­
,vrong V\ithin their team. They 
the first half, but the PE

night was a hard-fought It is rare to find a player
itions of these two terms are 
don't have to be 100 percent 
defense came up big again

defensive battle between who can absolutely dominate
necessary to quiet these accus­
optimistic and happy with their 
with an interception with

Lyons and Walsh which every aspect of a sport, but
ing voices and correct their mis­
team all of the time. 
only 52 seconds remaining.

Lyons won 6-0 in the final Pasquorilla East's fifth-year
representci_tions. 
Being a real fan compares to 
The Pyros· offense came

minute. senior quarterback/punt
Fair-wPather fans are fans 
parenting in this regard. Good 
out in a five-receiver set and

The first half was full of returner FJizabeth Plummer
who root for their team only 
parents know that their kids are 
Plummer threw her second

punts and penalties. as nei­comes pretty close.
when they are succeeding. They 
not perfect. They know that 
TD of the night to the tight

ther offense could seem to Plummer led PE to an 18-0
express little to no interest in 
there are things that can be 
end with no time left on the

get things going. Walsh had victory, starting off the final
their team when it is losing. 
improved. Even more, they 
clock. PE ended the half with

a nice drive towards the end game of the night by return­
They leave games when their 
know that it is their dutv to cor­
a 18-0 lead.

of the half which included ing a punt for 40 yards and
team is behind. They skip the 
rect those faults even if\t means 
The PE offense came out

some solid option runs by then scrambling for a touch­
pep rallies after the first loss. 
pointing them out to their child. 
looking sharp, but the Lewis

quarterback Melissa Beiting down on PE's very first play
In general. they care more 
Hut inside, they still love their 
defense shut them down in

and a 30-yard pass to her. from scrimmage. Before
about the wins than the team 
kids. 
the second half. Lewis start­

wide receiver. Lewis knew it, it was down
itself. 
Similarlv, real fans aren't 
ed to move the ball but was

With under a minute 6-0.
Real fans. on the other hand, 
afraid to point out the faull'i in 
stopped by penalties and

remaining in the first half The PE defense also looked
are those who root for a team 
their team, but it doesn't dimin­
sloppy play. 

both teams traded turnovers, very tough as the two-time
despite its record. popularity, or 
ish their undying love for that 
The game ended with PE

sAtting up Walsh with first rnturning champions sacked
level of excitemrmt. 
team. 

and goal from the 10. the Lewis quarterback twice
Real fans sweat. <.:ry and 
Both real fans anrl fair-weath­
first step towards a possible

But four incomplete passes on Lewis's second posses-
sometimes even bleed with their 
er fans exist at Notre Dame. 
third straight championship.
later. the half ended tied at

team. 
Both are perfectly acceptable. 
0-0.
Real fans stay until the end of 
Aftf-lr all, some people simply 
The second half was much

a game despite the fact that it's 
don't like football, but still enjoy 
of the same as both teams

easily apparent that their team 
the excitemimt that a winning 
had trouble moving the ball

is going to lose. 
Notre Dame football team brings 
out of their own territory.
Heal fans still go to the pep 
to this campus. 
It wasn't until the 1: 30

rallies, still root for the team, 
J\t the same time. it's very 
mark that Lyons finally

still mourn aftt~r every loss, and 
honorable to be a real fan. It's 
mounted a drive.

still. despite what they might say 
tough to continue to support a 
As time was running down

publicly, believe in their heart 
team that can't seem to win. 
the Lyons quarterback fired

that their team has a chance of 
The people that should be 

winning each week. 
ashamed of themselves are the 
Real fans want the best for 
accusers, the fair-weather fan 

their team. They want it so 
Gestapo, who ignore the differ­

badly that when success doesn't 
ence and falsely accuse fans of 
Recycle

come as often as they'd like, it 
being something that they 

hurts them. 
aren't. 
It hurts them so badly that 
The 

they're not afraid to point out 
The views expressed in this · 

what's wrong 'vvith their team. 
column are those ofthe author 
It hurts them so badly that 
Observer.
and not necessarzly those ofThe 

occasionally, in the heat of the 
Observer. 


The Keough Institute for Irish Studies 
With the assistance of the Medieval Institute and the Department of English 
Presents a lecture: 
"'Go, West, Young Man": The Hisperica famina as Literature' 
by 

Andy Orchard 
University ofCambridge 
4:00, Friday September 24 Medieval Institute (715 Hesburgh Library) Reception to Follow ' 
Dr. Andy Orchard is University Lecturer, Department of Anglo-Saxon, Norse, and Celtic at the University of Cambridge, and a Fellow of Emmanuel College, Cambridge. He is the author of The Poetic Art ofAldhelm (Cambridg~ University Press, 1994), Pride and Prodigies:_Studies in the Monsters ofthe Beowulf-manuscript (D.S. Brewer, 1995), and The Cassell Dictionary of Norse Myth and Legend (1997). He has published on a wide variety of topics in Insular Latin, Anglo-Saxon, and Old Norse literature and culture. 


~~~,...,=======-~­

.; 

beam.1@nd.edu 
Tragically, weeks of hilarious cartoon material were lost when Patty O'Hara left Student Affairs. 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPECROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32"Love-­60 Actress Hagen 
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 1999 
Around" (1968 61 Shakespearean 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Your
1 They go into Troggs hit) sunburn victim? 
DAY: David Copperfield, Susan Rut­usual calm state will be threatened
drives 33 Action after a 63 "Like, I get it" 
tan, Lauren Bac,ul, Peter Falk, 8.B. today Try not to meddle in the affairs
&Waste default 64 Heart chambers 
King, Richard Marx of those you love. You have plenty
11 Rapscallion 
Happy Birthday: Your knowledge oi your own problems right now. 14 Outdo 
37 Reprimand 65 Cleo or Frankie 

and insight will benefit you this year. and it's time you dealt with them
39Airshow 66~-City 15 Station formation 
You will be able to lead others into head-on. 00
(Saratoga 

the future with your creative LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Prob­
16 Postal creed 40Vetoed Springs 
approach to all that you do. This is a lems with authority figures could
word 41 French door part nickname) 
year to push yourself to the limit in leave you 111 a peculiar situation. Use 
-

order to achieve the most Fight ior your creative imagination to iind
17 Embarrassed 42 Related on the 67 Adjusts 
person's 
your rights as well as for your posi­ways of making extra cash. You
mother's side 68 Scoffing look 

tion. Your numbers: 3, 16, 24, 30, need to find a positive outlet for your
nickname? 
44 Skater Midori 

42, 46 energy 0000
1eJohn-­
45 One who 

ARIES (March 21-April 19): Get SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You
DOWN

20 Made some lace dropped a pill on 
ready tq socialize, but not with col­need to get out and join groups that 21 Elusive the floor? 
leagues or clients. Think twice before will bring you in contact with inter­
. 1 Old-style23 Monogram ltr. 49C1gar auxiliary verb 
you decide to risk your position for esting people You are likely to build love_ Delays will occur if you have to close relationships with individuals
25 High points 52 Word with work 2 Ancient terrace 
travel today_ Give yourself lots of \\'ho believe in the same things as you
26 Well-fed baby in or Web farmer 
time.00000 do 000 a multiple birth? 53 Procrastinator's 3 Pants part 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Get SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): 
out and shop for some new clothes. Don't rush your luck with your
31 "Shell and refrain 4 "Third Rock 
Don't be afraid to change your look. peers. I you need help, ask, but don't
Head" sculptor 56 "Peer Gynt" From the Sun" 
It's time to make physical changes expect miracles. You may be forced to that will improve your appeal and put in some overtime in order to meet 
Hans composer et al. co-star 
5 Magnificent 

draw attention from individuals who your deadline and save your job. 
6 "Silent Spring" 

interest you_ 000 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan_ 19):
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE topic 
partner will overreact to just ·about Plan a family outing that will bring everything you do today_ Stress will \'OU all closer together, You can teach 
7 Judges 

E T A aNotorious '95 
Puzzle by Cathy Mlllhauser 
result if you let things escalate to an n,ungsters by revealing your own
S I V hurricane 
29 Actress Graff 49 Lath 55 Milldam unbearable leveL Honesty will be experiences from days gone by. You
S L O E 9 Like bees and 
perpendiculars your best policy. 000 need to avoid overspending. 000
30 Kilt features 57 Composer

EDI ants CANCER (June 21-July 22): You AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb, 18):
34 Getaway Siegmeister
10 Treeless plain so Tally will have problems with relatives or Spending on useless products will be ~..:..:.i..:..:.i~i,;..:.,i-=-i=,,-...,. 11 Kind of card 35 Tennis's 58 Item in a pool friends if you have told them too upsetting and limit you financially.
51 Brando's
Sampras much about your personal problems You can prosper, however, if you are
12,Melba, for one birthplace 
59 Song ending Try to be honest with yourself and willing to upgrade your living space
36 Radon lacks it -:-1-:-11-,-1-13 Emulates raptors 

deal with the situation -as quickly as b\' doing the work yourself. 0000
54 Pod vegetable 62 German article 
~=-li•="+-='+=f~ 18 Revamps, in a 38 "Unhand me!" possible. 000 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You 'lj_ay 40 Muted tones LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Do a little can bet that, regardless of how you research. You may want to look at all approach an emo_tional situation,
22 Ktnd of dish 43 Chicken cut Answers to any three clues in this puzzle your options regarding your career ,·,,ur partner will take your WGrds

,,.:,.f~=l•=l~8H~l-:::-B 24 Tour 46 Lifesaver, at ­

are available by touch-tone phone: direction. You can make changes oul of wntext. Be precise in your~-:-f~=+.c,;.+=-+,,,+~C'='+K~ 26 Woodworking times 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). if you're willing to make a move. communicrltion. 00 
tool 

47 Dress down 00000'
Annual subscriptions are available for the 
0 G D T U I 21 Cetacean killer 48 Marcus's retail best of Sunday crosswords from the last 

E A N 28Atop Birthday Baby: You need to learn the value ot a dollar. Your generosity may
partner 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
be your downfalL Your cre,1tive talent must be allowed to develop fully for you to reach the level of satisfaction you desire. You kno\\' how to attract attentic,n. (l\ieed advice? Check out Eugenia's w,,t, sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) I!~ 1QlN Lnin•rs.11 l'n•-.-. SYn1.1ir,1h'
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
---------------------------------~~--------------------------------------­
Thursday, September 23, 1999 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
T 60, '(ov \HIS Pl\lt-.lTl!v(, ll-lAIJKS. c l\l,l, MS 
l: Mr,DE IT M.'{!,EI..F C:R~?.'<, \3UT ,HI> Loo~S, 
Yti(.i ..lvsT "'Ke. -n-11::: PAl1JT11Jc. 111 ,Of' OUR OoRr-.:s \"Ol>Nl>ER 
l~,_IJC>ltvC. Ill,/ "HIE I.C>i3SY 

Fox TROT 
HIWE WE (;oT THE WORLD'S BEST CUSTo!>IAN AT THIS SCHOOL, oR WHAT? 
page 27

The Observer . TODAY 
JEFF BEAM
TOM KEELEY 

A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD 
1\-H.,-'s J\).!.,WI-\ A, :t: llDP.N IS au,,1:,, 
\vii~ "THIW\<.llllu, Sa 11~~{.."'t'l;'R 1!.lv' 11lOVul•" '{ou C:OUI..I) HAW~ -n¼l!, OIVE Nl.'.l'-T 
\~ 1-\l~>ltv~. C, '\'.OU~':, IN 
?Lt,,c..t:J 
j 
BILL AMEND 

I HEAR HE SP1LLED WAX OVTS1DE THE TEACHERS' LOUNGE AGAIN. 

THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name _______________________ Address ___________________ City _______State ____ Zip______ 




Swinging Away 
Despite coming up dry Wednesday, Sammy Sosa still leads Mark Maguire in the homerun derby, 61-59. 
page 25
PORTS 
O
THE page 28 BSERVER Thursday, September 23, 1999 
Real fans can still find fault 
You're a fair-weather fan. I'm a fair-weather fan. Ev~ryone's ~ f~ir-weather fa~; 1 he term fair-weather fan
... 
is as much a 
diche as Brian Churney "you're 
the best 
fans in On the Hot 
the Corner 
world" 
has 
become. And that's whnn the 
team is winning. Our team, 
however, isn't winning. 
What is a cliche when a team is winning becomes as preva­lent as Jarious Jackson bounced option pitches when a team is losing. It seems that whenever a team begins to lose. certain people conduct McCarthy-like witch hunts for fair-weather fans, searching for one ounce of disloyalty. 
These so-called diehards search campus hoping to find a negative comment about their team. \Vb.en one is found they immediately meet with the other members of the fair­weather fan Gestapo and for­mulate plans to deal wit these traitors. 
Sometimes a nasty e-mail does the trick. 
Sometimes they must write into the newspapers chastising others for their skepticism or lack of faith. 
Sometimes they make grand displays at public events of their undying love and hope for their team. 
They accuse others of selling out and giving up. They also consider themselves better than others to the point of fix­ing an imaginary red "F" to your breast labeling you as a ­brace yourself -fair-weather fan. 
I invite you to join me. Join the hundreds of other fair­weather fans on campus. But you better hurry because the blacklist is filling up. In fact, the blacklist consists of almost everyone on campus at one 
..._ 
time or another . 
Why, you ask? How can thousands of the best fans in the world desert their team and become fair-weather fans? 
The simple answer to this question is that many of the accusers, in reality, have no idea what a fair-weather fan is. They simply mislabel anyone with whom they disagree, with­out regard to the difference between fair-weather fans and real fans. 
The difference between being 
see CHURNEY/pagc26 
FOOTBALL 

Turnovers plague Irish offensive line 

By BRIAN KESSLER 
Sports Editor 
Notre Dame's football team had a dillicult time handling the last three losses, but it has also had some trouble handling the ball. 
"Stop the turnovers, that's the biggest thing right now," senior quarterback Jarious Jackson said. ''I've had a few turnovers myself and so have some other people, but at the same time I'm concerned about mine. I need to stop turnovers myself because I'm the quarterback and hopefully that will help us out as well." 
Jackson had difficulty pitch­ing the ball against Michigan and Purdue, but showed some improvement in last Saturday's game against Michigan Stjtte. 
He does, however, have six interceptwns, equaling his total all last season. 
"We have to make some bet­ter decisions," offensive coordi­nator Kevin Rogers said. "We had some underthrown balls that resulted in interceptions the other day. A lot of [turnovers] have been due to interceptions and fumbles by the quarterback, but obviously we are trying to rectify the situ­ation." 
With nearly a 2-1 turnover ratio in favor of Irish oppo­nents. the team begins to ques­tion how aggressive it can be. 
The Irish didn't run the option as much against Michigan State and was tenta­tive throwing the ball deep down the field. 
"Sure you get a little bit gun shy when you turn the ball over," Rogers said. "You tend to get a little more conservative _and not try things as much." 
Rogers and the rest of the coaching staff stressed protect­ing the ball in practice. 
JOHN DAILY/The Observer 

Michigan State free safety Amp Campbell intercepts Jarious Jackson's pass intended for Bobby Brown in the end zone during last weekend's loss to the Spartans. 
"We're trying to make more of an emphasis on ball security everyday with all the skill play­ers," Rogers said. "[You work on] blatant ball security, just making sure you isolate the football and take care of it. I'm not sure we've had one fumble this year that was the result of a big hit or anything like that, but fumbles you can't excuse anyway. We're trying to make a concerted effort to cut back." 
So far, the Irish are showing signs of improvement. 
"The ball is on the ground less in practice, but you really can't say you are making progress until you do it in the game," Rogers said. "It's inex­cusable what we've been doing." 
The real test for Notre Dame will come against Oklahoma. After four games, the Irish haven't come close to playing error-free football and if they hope to turn the season around, they will have to start against the Sooners. For now, the Irish have an extra week to work on taking care of the ball. 
"You like to think [the bye week will help]," Rogers said. "I think with a young group of guys, you afford the extra opportunity to prepare and practice and go through assign­ments. Hopefully, we'll be a lit­tle more mistake free. We're sitting here at 1-3 but I think we're getting better." 

WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Welsh breezes past PW in season opener 
By STEVE KEPPEL Sports Writer 
A young and rejuvenated Welsh team defeated Pasquerilla West 16-0 Tuesday. 
After an unsuccessful sea­son last year, Welsh looked to start off this season on the right track. 
And that's exactly what it did. Midway through the first half, Welsh quarterback Stef Eden had a long run down to about the 20-yard line. 

On the very next play, she fired a strike to her running back for Welsh's first score. The two-point conversion put them up 8-0. 
Before the end of the half, the PW offense started dri­ving down the field. 
Welsh's strong defense put pressure on quarterback Andi Will forcing her lo 
throw an interception with no time remaining, ending their hopes of a score. 
Welsh's defense came out tough in the second half by once again picking off an errant Will pass. 
The Welsh offense contin­ued to move the ball with Eden's passing and running, but had two touchdowns called back because of penal­ties. 
Eden slarted off her team's 
fourth quarter drive with a long pass over the middle. After a few incomplete pass­es, she again hit the running back out of thfl backfield for a 15-yard score. The two­point conversion put Welsh up 16-0. 
On the nP-xt series, Will ended PW's hopes of a come­back by throwing her third intercPption of the night with 
see FOOTBALL/page 26 

vs. Oklahoma at St. M;uy's Tournament 
Volleyball

October 2, 1:30 p.m. Moraga, California
SPORTS '~ $ at Olivet College 
Friday-Sunday 
Today, 6:30 p.m. 

ATA •
at Seton Hall 
Volleyball 
Golf

Friday, 1 p.m. 
GLANCE >!; at Wyoming $ at Hope College 
Friday, 7 p.m. 
Sunday, 1 p.m. 





