

¦ Did "Friends" make the cur as one of 
¦ Notre Dame softball split a double-header with 
Thursday

television's best shows? Take a look at 
the Western Michigan Broncos Wednesday. 
Scene to find out. 
APRIL 8, 

Scene• 12-13 
Sports• 18 
1999 
THE 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 118  WWW. ND.EDU/~OBSERVER  
JAit\Jt\IMC THE MICHT AWA~  Panel discusses  
aspects of Kosovo  

By TIM LOGAN News Editor 
The crisis in Kosovo provides insight to a number of trends relating to international sover­cignity, refugee crises and U.S.­Russia relations, said a panel of Notre Dame government profes­sors Wednesday. 
Professors AJan Dowty, Gilburt Loescher and Martha Merritt addressed several issues sur­rounding the Kosovo crisis as NATO entered its 15th clay of bombing on Wednesday. Since lhe bombing campaign began, hundreds of thousands ol' t>thnic Albanians have fled the Yugoslav province. 
"It is clear that the refugee cri­sis has quickly dwarfed the political and military aspects of the Kosovo crisis," said Loescher, professor of govern­ment and international relations and a specialist in international refugee problems. 
In the 15 days since NATO bombing began, 500,000 ethnic Albanians have fled Kosovo. That amounts to between one­qu ar ter and one-third of Kosovo's population, according 
to Loescher. If the exodus con­

Jazz star Branford Marsalis blows his horn al Stepan Center Wednesday with his bassist Eric Revis. 
tinues at its current rate, the province will be empty by the 

Marsalis came to Notre Dame as part of this weekend's Collegiate Jazz Festival. 
¦ fACULTY SENATE 
end of the month, he said. 
This exodus will have a smi­ous impact on neighboring coun­tries. nspncially J\lbania and Macedonia, LmischPr predictl'CI. 
"This crisis has seriously dnstabilized th,1se countrins," he said. Albania will suffer econom­
ically, whili:i Macedonia will l'acn 
,.........iJJJt_U\\\1--~ a serious 
challengn to 
• The Observer's 
its carefully continuing cover­
balancnrl age of rhe crisis in 
ethnic sta­bility.
Kosovo. 
"The eth­
p. 5,6, 7 nic composi­
tion of' tlrn state is very important to il'-i sta­bility," hn said. "The innux or 125,000 nthnic Albanians in snv­eral weeks has start11d to desta­bilize the coalition govcrnmont." 
Moreover, Loescher said, Serbian president Slobodan Milosevic intends his ethnic cleansing program to upset nearby states. 
"We're talking about a systnm­atic effort to depopulate a coun­try of 90 percent of its people. That's the goal of the Serb h•ad­ership," he said. "It is also a goal of the Serb leadership to desta­bilize neighboring countries." 
see KOSOVO / page 4 



Members call for drug test guidelines, financial info 
By KYLE ANDREWS 
N«-ws Writer 
Tim Faculty Senat.n passnd resolutions Wmhwsday regarding faculty drug testing, Llw l lorwr Cod11 a11cf the April Accord. a let­lnr f'rom tlw provost informing !'acuity of' llw llniv1irsity's financial situation. 
Faculty drug t11sting has bnen laking plac11 without a written policy that outlines t.lw UnivPrsily's rulos and rngulations. A dosirn was nxprnssPcl for llrn 11stablishment or written guid,~lines that not only spoil out the University rules, but lake into account Uin lllhirnl dimensions of the matter. 
Tlw rtlsolution. whicli will be sent to Univl'rsity president Father Edward Malloy, will rt\quest the estal.ilishmcnt of a comrnittn11 to begin work on forming a poli­cy. 
Many snnntn members nxprnssecl con­c,irn ov1ir thn presnnt systnm and its lack of guirlnlinns. In addition, the question was raisncl as to the definition of a drug and which would be included in tlrn policy. The resolution was passed unanimously. 
The next resolution. also unanimously apprnvml, rngarded the revision of the honor code. The members of the Academic Affairs committee said tlw responsibilities nf sturhmts and faculty nor.dccl to be better explained, in an effort to capturo the spirit of the University. 
The concept of teamwork that the University embraces is absent from the present document, senators said. In addi­tion, the committee said the llonor Code ne1ided to be made more accessible, in order to allow students and faculty to work together more easily. 
The passed resolution was to endorse the idea of a revision and send the proposal to the academic council for consideration. 
The final resolution passed was in refer­ence tu the annual letter required of the provost to inform faculty of the University's financial situation, otherwise known as the April Accord. 
"The provost will write an annual letter to the faculty that will spell out the state of the University's financial situation.will describe current and anticipated problems and will seek faculty response and partic­ipation in resolving such problems," reads the April Accord. 
The provost has not provided a letter since the 1996-1997 academic year. The resolution, which passed unanimously, was intended to express the raculty Senate's "disappointment and displeasure with the provost's failure in this regard." 
The senate called for a report bnfore the beginning of the 1999-2000 academic year. 
The critical nature of the financial report was expressed by the senate members. The report helped explain the logic behind the fundamental financial decisions that affect­ed the !'acuity and student body. This knowledge is critical for the faculty to help 

see SENATE/ page 8 


The Observer• INSIDE Thursday, April 8, 1999




utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Ivy league school aceptance rates continue to plummet 

PRINCETON, N.J. 

Though Princeton's 10.8 percent acceptance rate for the Class of 2003 appears to be the lowest in school his­tory. the majority of Ivy League schools and peer institutions also reported more selective admissions results this year than last. 
With a target of 1,650 students for its freshman class, Harvard admitted 2,055 applicants from a pool of 18,160, resulting in an acceptance rate of 11.3 percent, according tu Marlyn McGrath Lewis, director of admissions for Harvard and Radcliffe Colleges. The number of applications Harvard received was the second largest in the university's history. Last year, Harvard admitted 2,073 of 16,819 applicants for an acceptance rate of 12.3 percent. 
Though Lewis said she could not be certain how Harvard's recent financial aid initiative affected the admissions process this year, she acknowledged, 
¦ SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
S Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather®foreca.st for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

L 

Thursday ~ 67 49 Friday I ~ 58· 53 Saturd~y 64. ,48
:•:"i\'E 
~ 

Sunday ~ .. 60 46 Monday /~ 64 44 
,,\J-·tJ-,",,/"'"-.__ ,. 

~ ~ -r0 c£51 au (f ~ u 
... , .. , ...~...~ ......:. ·i•.;;;·/· ·:,:::.-:. 

"We all got a lot of good and well­deserved publicity for making our respective places more accessible to families," Lewis noted, acknowledging the trend of changes in financial aid programs at many elite institutions this year. 
Yale University admitted 15.9 per­cent of its applicants, accepting 2,121 out of 13,266, the largest applicant pool in its history, according to The Yale Daily News. 
The University of Pennsylvania 
¦ Omo UNIVERSITY Students fear military involvement 
ATHENS. Ohio 

With the Unit<'d States' increasing military involvement in Kosovo, several students serving in reserve units are concerned about what would happen to them academical­ly if they are called into action. Reserve units are called into action on a situational basis, said Lt. Col. Paul Schwanenberg, commander of OU's Army ROTC. In the Vietnam War, the reserve units were not called until the active forces were depleted, he said. But every situation will be different and will dictate the type of unit required, he said. "I am very concerned about it and graduating at the end of the quarter," said Shannon Bibbee, vice presi­dent of OU's Student Senate and member of the Army Reserves. Bibbee's concerns center on the question of financial aid. If called into active duty and forced to with­draw for the spring quarter, Bibbee could not apply for financial aid for fall quarter because it would be too late, which would cost him money used for taking classes. 
¦ SOUTHERN ILUNOiS UNlVEf!SffY Former student faces murder charges 
CARBONDALE, Ill. 

Tracie Crutchfield said she experienced extended torture from her jealous, abusive husband in the months before he allegedly killed her close friend Michael Sasso in front of her 3-year-old daughter late Saturday night at her home. "He was always mentally and verbally controlling," Tracie said of husband Steven Mack Crutchfield. "In the last nine months to a year, I realized he was physically abusive." Steven, 30, was a SIU student from 1996 to fall semester 1998. lfo was arrested early Sunday morning and charged with three counts of first-degree murder in relation to the stabbing death of Sasso, a 20-year-old sophomore in admin­istration ofjustice from Chicago. Tracie, a 26-year-old SIUC sophomore in administration of justice from Herrin, had already filed for divorce from Steven when Sasso was stabbed to death. And she now believes her child is scarred because of the alleged homicide. "She screams and has nightmares, and she can't understand it," Tracie said. 
Showers T ~torms Rain Flurries Snow fc9 Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Burlington 
Via Associalsd Pr9ss GraphicsNer 
Chicago 
¦ SAN DIEGO STATE UNIVERSITY Union authorizes faculty strike 
SAN DlEGO 

The union that represents faculty in the California State University system has authorized a range of job actions ~ up to and including a strike -at the system's 22 campus­es. The vote gives each CSU campus permission to protest CSU chancellor Charles Reed's unilateral imposition of working conditions on March 1 7. California Faculty Association members had voted down a more favorable contract in late February. Job action could include any­thing from a formal strike to asking faculty to only per­form their duties "to the letter" of what is required. Many of the possibilities could affect students -including with­holding grades, not accepting "crashers" and enforcing class prerequisites. Rolf Schulze, president of the University's CFA chapter, has said a form of job action will definitely take place. CFA authorized the strike on March 28, but because students were on Spring Break last W()ek. any job action taken by CFA will be felt this week. 
¦ PENNSYLVANNIA STATE UNIVERSITY Students offer aid to refugees 
STATE COLLEGE, Penn. 

The crisis in Kosovo is a dire situation, but many organi­zations are rising to the challenge of easing the pain ol' the refugees by donating time and supplies to the cause. Ethnic Albanian refugees have been fleeing Kosovo into surrounding countries such as Albania, Macedonia and Montenegro, and they have a need for basic supplies. Area churches, such as the State College Presbyterian Church, are asking parishioners to donate money to aid the Kosovo refugees. Recently, the church received donations to be sent through the Church World Service, said Priscilla McCarty, church secretary. The Church World Service has provided $900,000 in ongoing emergency funds for tents, blankets and mattresses for refugees in Montenegro, Kosovo, Macedonia and other areas that are in need, said Wesley Albin, director for the service's regional oflicn. Students can send funds to specific arnas such as Kosovo if they indicate where their funds am to be used. 
¦ NATIONAL WEATHER 

Pre,sur•:
® © 
High Low 
v,a A.ssoc1a,ed Pfflss 
Albany Atlanta Boston 
offered admission to 4,703 of 17,661 applicants, also its largest pool ever. according to dean of admission Lee Stetson. The school's acceptance rate of 26.6 p1ircent is the lowest in the uni­versity's history, falling from 29.2 per­cent last year. 
He said he agnrnd that Ivy League schools are becoming mm·e popular in part because of better financial aid offers. However, he added that more recruiting of low-income students is necessary. 
"It's our job to get to them. Part of the challenge is that they are preemp­tive in that they rlon't think they are financially qualified," Stetson said of low-income students. "We try to pn~­sent the very best financial aid pack­ages to early decision applicants." 
University of Virginia dean of admis­sion John Blackburn said UVA is "very anxious to know" how the financial aid changes will affect UVA's yield rate. 
,,_ 

. LZJ~C][D . Q~.J,,,,,.~., 
Shower• Rain J.s1orm11 AurrlH Snow tee sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
63 43 Dallas 79 70 New York 70 53 83 60 Lake Elsinore 64 43 Orchard Park 61 47 62 50 Los Angeles 65 46 Seattle 48 38 58 44 Manchester 61 43 Syracuse 61 46 65 50 New Orleans 84 70 Washington 82 53 
Thursday, April 8, 1999 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Senators on Campus Life Council, Financial Mgmt. Board 
¦ STUDENT SENATE 
Campus Life Council 
Financial Management Board 


New members elect 
Brian ()'Donoghue, Keough Hall senator 
Patrick Kelley, Morrissey Hall senator Phil Dittmar, Fisher llall senator 
Matthew Kloser, Keenan Ilall senator Bridget Tomes. Cavanaugh Hall senator 
Alternate: 
their CLC, FMB reps
Pat Foy, Off.campus senator Paul Sladek, St. Edward's Hall senawr 
Altcmatc: 
Cirnaroon Gilson, Sorin I !all senator 
By FINN PRESSLY the Residonce Lif'o committne Assistant New, Editor into two separate commitloes. 
The Notre Dame Finance Forum 
.. Will be presenting discussions of 
how the electronic exchanges work 
and what their impact will be on the financial industry 
Tuesday, April 13, 1999 
In 102 DeBartolo From 4:30-6:00 
Come listen to industry professionals from Goldman Sachs and Andersen Consulting. 

After pledging to del'nnd the Student Union constitution Wednesday, the Student Senate began its first meeting of the new term. 
On the agenda was election of senators to represent the group on the Campus Lif'o Council and the Financial 
Management Board. 
''I've seen three Campus Lifo Councils, and I haven't seen it effectively used," said former CLC member and current stu· dent government chic!' of staff Matt Mamak. 
Keough senator Brian ()'Donoghue was re•elcctnd to the CLC. The senate also eler.t• ed Fisher senator Philip Dittmar and Cavanaugh sena• tor Bridgrt Tomes. Sorin srma· tor Cimarron Gilson will servo as alternato member. 
Representatives for the Financial Management Board were also elected. The Senate chose Morrissey represnntative Patrick Kelly and Keenan sena­tor Matthew Kloser, while St. Edward's senator Paul Sladok will serve as alternate. 
The senate also discussed a resolution regarding dividing 
Friday, April 9, 1999 
4p.m. Montgomery Theater, LaFortune Center 
Co-sponsored by TI1e Mediterranean/Middle East Studies Program The Kellogg Institute The Kroc Institute for Peace Studies 
"It's large and encompasses a whole bunch of' things that need to be lookI'd at in depth," said off•campus senator Patrick Foy, speaking in favor of tlw measure. Foy is beginning his second lnrm in llrn senatn. 
In a straw poll, thn senate approved the rnsolution with just one dissnnling votn. An official vote on the matter will be held next wnek. 
The senate was also present· cd with the nominations for a numl,nr of positions. Former student body vicP-prPsidnnt Andrna Sclak was nominatnd for the position of academic delegate, whiln Mamak was nominated for chitif of staff, as well as Steph1in Sanchez for parliamentarian and Luciana Heali for Student Union secrn• tary. 
Judicial Council prnsident Kelly Folks also presentncl her nominations for thren vacant seals on Judicial Council: Hnbecca Demko l'or vice·prnsi• dent of elections and Shannon Grady, Angela Galui and Anthony Wagner for co-vice• presidents of' advocacy. Grady will serve in Wagner's place while he is abroad in the fall. 


Christmas in April 
Benefit Run 

'Silt:~ IOile ~ Plus 1-MM Wal~ >-i t 'Saturda'{, April 10, 11:00 AM ~ 'Ste-p.an Ce11te-r T-'l>hirt& to a\\ \2-egi&trant& \2-egi&te.r in Mvan,e. at \Z,ec.~portfi $(,.oo In Mvan,e. or $7.oo Da1 of tz.ac.e. Dead\ine for Advan,e re.9i&tration it> '5:oopm on 4/q 'f>tude.nt and 'btaff Divifiion& ,'\\\ 'Proludt> to e>e.nefit lbrit~ m~1 
Sponsored By -­
R--~ . 

The Muslim Students Association presents a lecture on 
THE CHALLENGE OF POLITICAL ISLAM 
by Prof. John L. Esposito 
Professor of Religion and International Affairs, Professor of Islamic Studies, and Director of the ~nier for Muslim­Christian UndcrS!llnding at Georgetown University, Wa,hington, D.C. 


page4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, April 8, 1999 
when there is the international will to get involved in a conflict




Kosovo 

like Kosovo, it should not be dis­couraged, he said.
continued from page 1 

"In some cases, [the fact that 
At some point NATO ground there is no intervention] is a lack forces will have to be used. of will," he said. "When a case either to end the lighting or to comes along and there is a will, preserve the peace. Dowty said. that doesn't make it wrong 
"This is going to lead inevitably because it's inconsistent." to the use of ground troops," he The Hussian response to the said. "There are things you can bombing has raised significant do with air concern in 
power and the interna­things you 
tional com­can't do 
'THIS IS GOING m 11 n i t v • 
just with Hussia.'s a i r 
TO LEAD reaction in 
power. INEVITABLY TO THE this case NATO's has been
USE OF GROUND 
military especially action TROOPS.' pronouncPd against because of Serbia, as the close a response ethnic rela­for its PROFESSOR OF GOVERNMENT AND tionship treatment INTERNATIONAL REL41'IONS between of its civil-Russians ian popu-and Serbs, 
lation, marks a departure from according to Merritt. traditional international law poli­"Here is a reminder that Slavic cy that rPspccts national sover­peoples are not bring trcatrd eignity as inviolate. according to well around the world," she said. Dowty. "Russia reasonates in a very per­
"ln practice and. to a great sonal way with this loss of ability cxtnnt. in theory, the absolute over lands which they consider inviolability of sovereign territory sovernign." 
no longer exists," Dowty said. l'vlerritt said tlrn Russian reac­"The fact of the matter is that the tion to Kosovo, which has includ­Security Council, and the [United ed protests at NATO consulates Nations1 in general have and even attempted violence increased intervention." against the U.S. embassy in 
The reasoning behind this Moscow, is the most severe intervention varies according to response to any American action the situation, Dowty said, as does in two decades. She accounts this the possibility or"intervention. both to the close relationship While it is not always practical, Russia has with the Serbs and 



~TU(]ENT WANTE(] 
Work approx. 1 Ohrs. a week 
. Must have knowledge of D Macs & related Mac Programs._,,,.,..--.-....-'


-...........,.......,... 

Prefer Sophomores 
Please apply in person 
by April 16, 1999 
in the Reilly Center, 346 O'Shag 

social commentator on the 
world-wide impact of the Internet, 
coined the term Cyberspace, and is a former lyricist for the Grateful Dead 
April 11 ~ 7:00 p.m. Indiana University South Bend Main Auditorium 
Sponsors: The Franklin D. Schurz library and the South Bend Tribune 

frustration with the nation's loss ism. powerless to effect this. of influence in the international "This is a political gold mine Escalating rhetoric followed by community. for the nationalists." she said. no action would make them look 
"The U.S. will be held account­"Everything they said would hap­bad," she said. "They've made a able in the eyes of many pen if they let the U.S. get the very ~~retiJI jab, and then with­Russians," Merritt said. She also upper hand is happening." draw. noted that the nation's lower Still, Merritt said, there is little The Joan B. Kroc Institute for house of parliament, the Duma, Russia can do to help the Serbs International Peace Studies and has reacted fiercely against because of' the nation's economic the Kellogg Institute for NATO bombing. Thf' Duma is a political ditliculties. International Studies sponsored stronghold of Russian national-"Russia knows she's relatively the panel discussion. 
Fresh from the Rotterdam, Locarno, Oberhausen, Edinburg, Toronto, Hong Kong, Palermo, Philadelphia and Chicago Film Festivals ... 
11aferocious, committed,important, historicaVpolitical tract for the amnesiac 90's"Boston Phoenix 

SOUTH BEND PREMIERE SCREENING THURSDAY APRIL 8, 1999 7:30 PM SNITE MUSEUM OF ART ADMISSION $2 
Tickets on sale at the Lafortune Student Center, also at the Film, Television,. and Theatre offices (320 O'Shaughnessy Hall) 
Sponsored by The Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts and the Department of Film, Television, and Theatre 
GIT IN THE 


THICK 
OF IT. 


Conveniently located in the heart of 
downtown South Rend, Old Chicago 
Steakhouse has the hottest grill in cown. 
Wednesdays 
All-You-Can-Eat GrabLegs $15,?51/ 
i;,' 
222 S l\,IICIIIGAN•SOlJTII IIEND•(2l'J) 2H-!i21lfl 
Class of 199 
Only 


Thursdays, 
at 
left to hang out with 1,600 of your Closest Friends 
and lots of

99¢-Cover 
other stuff 
with college I.D. .... 
must be 21 
for99¢ 

2 2 2 S. Michigan 
South Bend • (219) 234-5200 (all the Heartland Concert &Event line (219) 251-2568 www.ACEplaces.com/heartland 

Thursday, April 8, I999 COMPIIED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 

( PMPAN\' NJ' nvou, A.\~)( IJH.1.t tH..ll'lnHt. (lt(AU,l,l:Uk!' 
Mc'J WORI [)COi'.! ,\Mf.KONI.INF MIK<'R\lSOrl" \.Oki' 
I U< I ~THCII 1.~C C ·, lMl1llWAIU l :t Ht P 
KOMUJRl' 
V/\IHH)IN( 
f"lf'UH  'Y.t'IIAN{il'  I Cii\lN  l'BICE  
NETA  .21.07  -1 <l.17,  16.l)O  
Im.I. l>RCl. WCOM ,\()( MCFI  -.KO ·'>Al.I i,.l)H .,\J7-.im  -.. l12.\ ·Z.247S · L562S -Y.0000 •.7'2S  46.4-1 Zl.44 H6.(JO l~ij.50 'H.:li  
IU Cl'WU COM~ YllOO  •.Y7 -HIN ·tt.28 .2,(}9  · b2ftO -Z.Oli!'-10 -I.HI 15 . /i,,Ufi()  6<1 {}(I II.Kl Z0.12 208.·14  

¦ YUGOSLAVIA 


Kosovo borders close, trap refugees ._ 
ASSOCIATED f'HESS 
BELGHADE, Yugosl11via 
Yugoslav authorities sealed off Kosovo's main border crossings W<1dnesday, preventing ethnir ;\Jbaniuns l'rom leaving as thn wave of refugees approached the half-million mark. /\s N/\TO steppPd up its airstrikos, a Cypriot mmliator sought frpedom l'or thrnn cap­turnd U.S. sol­diPrs. 
Two loud explosions could lw heard nPar midnight W1idrwsday in th1· c1rntcir of Bnlgrade, and smok1~ could be snnn rising in tlrn direction of thn army hcrnd­quarl1ws. ;\ local resident, readwd by tele­pllon P, said an army building 1wnr tlrn head­quarters was hit in a dnnsnly pop­ulatml arna. 
Studio B tde­v1 s1 on also rnporltid uxplo­sions late Wednesday in Pancevo. an industrial Lown just north of Belgrade that has brnm repeat­edI y targeted during the 15­day N;\TO cam­paign. 
Earlier Wednesday, /\lhania's parliament approved NATO plans to send in 24 U.S. Apache attack helicopters -a move that should bol­stlir the alliance's firepower against the Yugoslav tanks and armor that have driven ethnic Albanians from tlwir hom<1s in Kosovo. 
After forcing mor<1 than 400,000 rnfugees out to neighboring countries, Yugoslav authorities closed tho main exit route on We<lmisday without explanation, forcing tons of thousands of pimple back toward the burned vil­lages they had been escaping from. 
German Defense Minister lludolf Scharping warned that the Yugoslavs may be planning to use the civilians in Kosovo as "human shields" against NATO at.tack. 

In Morini, the crossing point !"or Kosovo refugees into Albania, the flow of cars and tractors suddenly stopped at 3 a.m., witnesses said. Yugoslav bor­der guards could be seen laying what appeared to be mines and digging for­tifications just inside their territory. 
"The rnfugnes ... were told to mturn to their places of residence -whatev­er is left of those places," said Doran 
Vienneau of' the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, which has benn monitoring thn border. 
Scharping said Yugoslav forces had begun forcing ethnic Albanians hack from the border areas into tlrn province. Ile showed aerial photos that he said shownd Snrb tanks surround­ing a Kosovo village, sc1parating llrn 
men and women, 
and then opening 
lirn on housns. 
The rormer 
president of' 
Cyprus, Spyros 
Kyprianou. lmgan 
a mission to win 
the releaso of 
thre(i ;\mnrican 
soldinrs sPizecl 
along tlw 
Yugoslav border 
With Mac111lonia 
on March 31. 
Cyprus, which is 
not a N/\TO mmn­
bnr. has histori­
cally had closo 
ti tis wilh 
Yugoslavia. 
Kyprianou llPw 
to i\tlrnns, whm·c• 
ho said lw was 
"waiting for tlw 
grnen light from 
Belgrade" lll'fort\ 
going to 
Yugoslavia on 
Thursday. I le said 
hn lrnlinvod tho 
relnasn ol' tlrn sol­
d in rs was immi­
nent. 
Sandy Berger, 
President 
Clinton's national 
security adviser. was cautious aboul tlrn mission but said, "We rnr­tain ly would wol­
come any rnl1mse." 
Another nightmarn was brnwing for the tons of thousands of' Kosovo rnf'ugons who had made it across into neighboring Macedonia only to bo trapped for clays in squalid conditions. With frightening efficinncy, Macedonian ollicials mnptind tho bor­der city of Blace beforn dawn Wednesday. 
¦ SWITZERLAND 

Amnesty accuses U.S. of abuses 
ASSOCIATED PRESS 
GENEVA 
Human righis watchdog Amnesty International showcased an alkgcd victim of American police brutality Wudnesday in an effort .to strength~ en its campaign against abuses in the United States. 
Accusing the United States of "persistent and widespread human rights violations," Amnesty has mounted a high-profile campaign to get I.he 53-nation U,N. Human Rights Commission to cnnsnre the Americans -at its ,:six-week annual session. 
Shirl0y Alejos, a U.S. citizen of Puerto Rican origin, recounted her ordeal at the hands of Chicago police in 1994 . 
Alejos said she was coming home from church on~. nigh~ withher children, when she was stopped by police, who thought she was a teenager violating a curfew. When she tried to explain, police arrested her ahd took h'or to the station where they questioned her and beg~n beating h~f: . . . _ 
"Whnn they didn't like my answers they hit me," said Alejos. a 92-pound tnothet of five. "l was taken into a separate room and three pollce officers came in and started beating me." 
Alejos said she wns kept in a cell 
_overnight and sent to a hospital t.he next day. She had a broken leg, two black eyes and bruises all over her body. She added that her family was still being harassed by the police. 
Amnesty 1s cH.ing poHce brutality as one of the·key human rights vio­lations in the United States. The 
. . .-. . .··.. ·.··.. .. M . ... . . . . 
.. ~-~Y-" 
country's justice and penal system also have glaring shortcomings according to Amnesty's Secretary­general Pierre Santi. The U.S. dele­gation refuted tho r,ritlcism. 
"We disagree strongly that civil and human rights violations in tho United States are persistent, wide­spread or, indeed, the implication that they go unpunished," U.S. dele­gation leader Nancy Rubin said. 
"We are proud of our political and judicial system. We have appropri• ate mechanisms In place to address shortcomings and are continually taking action against abuses wher• ever they occur," 
Despite the international tnmd toward abolishing capita.I punish­ment, more than 350 prisoOE1rs had b11en ~ixocuted in the United States since 1990 with another :-J,500 on death row, Sane said. 


Koso' J'.0 CRISIS Thursday, April 8, 1999
.t-P~a~ge~6=====================================---_-_::-~-T~hs:.e20~b::s~e~rv'.=e!:...r..=.•~~::i,~..:.2v'~~~~:::_________________________ 
;:: 
Cyprus legislator may 
broker deal for Gls 
Associated Press 
.:...:::.:.==_:_:,__,_,:_________ ATHENS, Greece The speaker of the Cypriot parliament claimr,d he was close to winning the freedom today of three American sol­diers captured by Yugoslavia, The United States could not confirm a deaL Spyros Kyprianou arrived in Athens, Greece, today en route to the Yugoslav capital of Belgrade Lo meet with Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic, Yugoslavia's gov­ernment did not comment on tho deal. "The exchanges have been very constructive so far and the indications am that this mission will succeed," Kyprianou told reporters, "I am confident about it." Kyprianou said he was like­ly to spend the night in Athens -"waiting for the greon light from Belgrade" -beforn going to Yugoslavia on Thursday, Cyprus' ambassador to the United States, Erato Kozakou Marcoullis. said Kyprianou was approached by the Yugoslav ambassador in Nicosia and informed that Yugoslavia was willing to turn over the three soldiers with no conditions attached. The Clinton administration was restrained in its reaction. "We'll believe it when we see it," said David Leavy, spokesman for the National Security Council. Cyprus has historii::ally had close ties with Yugoslavia and 
the government has backed
their fellow Orthodox 
Christians in their clash with NATO over Kosovo, 
NATO has been bombing Yugoslavia to force Milosevic to accept a three-year interim autonomy agreement for the Yugoslav province to be 
policed  by  28,0Q0  NATO  
troops,  including American  
soldiers,  

The three captured soldiers were part of a peacekeeping force in l\1acrdonia. and not involved in the airstrike cam­paign. 
Staff Sergeant Andrew Ramirez, 24, of Los Angeles; Specialist Steven Gonzalos, 21 of Huntsville, Texas; and St~ff Sergeant Christopher Stone, 25, of Smiths Creek, Mich.; were captured last week near the Yugoslav­Macedonian border, 
Stone's family said they had been notified by the Pentagon of Cyprus' efforts. 
'Tm doing the best I can for the situation," Stone's wife, Tricia, said on NBC's "Today" show this morning. "And I'm trying to be very strong," 
If the release is secured, Kyprianou was to bring the three back to Cyprus and hand them over to U.S. officials there. 
Before traveling to Belgrade, Kyprianou said he also wanted to confer with Greek Deputy Foreign Minister Yannos Kranidiotis, who had met earli­er today with a Russian envoy and with Yugoslavia's ambas­sador to Greece. 
¦ NEWS AtJALYSIS




Milosevic may be looking for a way out, experts say 
Associated Press off now!" Anthony Cordcsman, a professor of national BELGRADE, Yugoslavia security at Georgetown University in A unilateral cease-fire, a possible willingness Washington. said Milosevic looked to be trying to to release three capturrd U.S. soldiers. President "improve the very negative image of Serbs-as­Slobodan Milosevic may be looking for a way out aggressors in the West." in his <.:onfrontation with NATO over Kosovo, "Dealing humanely with the POWs is one way,And there are signs the people of Serbia may as is opening up negotiations ,,, His DHSt strategy welcome a compromise with the enemy after two is to hope that these moves will weaken NATO's weeks of air strikes. resolve," he said. "Clearly [Milosevic] miscal­But are Washington and culated his options and real-the NATO allies ready to cut izes that this has been going a deal? on too long," Belgrade jour­
'CLEARLY [MILOSEVIC] MIS­If the cease-fire was an 
nalist Dusan Radulovic said. attempt to split the Western
CALCULATED HIS OPTIONS
In particular, the cease-tire, alliance, it apparently failed announced Tuesday, may be AND REALIZES THAT THIS HAS ~ even member nations less 
an attempt by the Yugoslav BEEN GOING ON TOO LONG.' hawkish than the United loader to head off any effort States and Britain were by the NATO allies to send in reported , determined ground troops to bring an end 
DusAN RA!JUUJVIC Wednesday to continue tho to the conflict that has forced 
BELGRADE JOURNAUST air attacks.
hundreds of thousands of eth­nic Albanians out of Kosovo. 
"Milosevic is fast approach­ing a point where getting some kind of negotia­tions arc in his interest in order to halt the bombings and to forestall the decision to intro­duce ground forces," said lvo Daalder, a .former Clinton administration official now with the Brookings Institution in Washington. . 
"Milosevic can survive a prolonged aenal war and proclaim victory in the end, but he cannot survive the introduction of ground forces," he said. 
But it's also possible that the cease-fire was an attempt by the Yugoslav leader to play to the home audience -making an offer he knew would be refused so he could continue to portray NATO as a demonic force bent on destroying Serbia. 
"We offer a cease-fire, and they continue bombing," fumed Milovan Cvijic, a Serb refugee from another Balkan war, "There is no backing 
Even so, Daalder said. 
Milosevic is "a brilliant tacti­
cian and he's now testing with his various probes how little he has to do to get NATO to split, I believe you'll S<\e other probes like this in coming days." 
President Clinton dismissed Yugoslavia's cease-fire against ethnic Albanian guerrillas in Kosovo as a hollow promise and said Washington and its NATO allies are "determined to stay united and to persist until we prevaiL" 
The heaviest night of airstrikcs since the NATO assault began March 24 followed Milosevic's cease-fire offer Tuesday, making clear that NATO countries continue holding out for much more. 
NATO leaders have demanded the withdrawal of Yugoslav military and paramilitary forces from Kosovo and an international military force to police a settlement that grants autonomy to Kosovo, a province of the main Yugoslav repub­lic of Kosovo. 
Calling all those interested in 



Diversity 
on campus 
The Multicultural Executive Council is looking for new members. 
Sp=sorrd by, 'J.{uituulturui'f,.\ecu.twt (iJu.11.(.J 

Applications are available in the Student Activities Office, 315 LaFortune and are due back to this office by April 16, 1999. 
r 
Thursday, April 8, 1__29? ___________ The Observer • KOSOVO CRISIS page 7 
U.S. warns nine Serbs of war crimes trials 
Clinton reaffirms NATO resolve to end Serb violence 
Asso<iaiecl l'rcs~ 
Wi\SIIINGT0N 
Naming names. tlrn U.S. government warnnd nine individual S1~rh comman­dPrs Wudnesclay lhny could face war crinu1s prosecution. TIH: warning came it!ong with a report citing "indicators of gm10cidH" in Kosovo gallwrnd by a spe­cial U.S. mwoy. 
l'rnsicll'nt Clinton again promised to "1wrsist until we prevail" in Yugoslavia, wl!ilu U.S. officials indicalnd N/\TO bomhi11g of Bnlgradn would cpasfl long 1inough Thursday to allow a Cypriot lcad1ir lo lly in with tlw hope of' bringing hack tlw thr1w U.S. soldinrs held by Yugoslavia. 
i\s the Kosovo rc•f'ugcn crisis intensi­lfod. U.S. military authoritins acknowl­ndgtHI it could takn otw or two months to transfor all 20.000 of tho Kosovar rnl'ugmis who an! to go to the U.S. mili­tary lmso at Cuantanamo, Cuba. 
Thn l't)lltaµon now ()Stimates that as many as 1.3 million 1itlrnic Albanians havt\ b111'11 displact)d, nither inside Lim provincn or in rwighboring countries ­4'.i0,000 of tlwm sincn 
NATO bombing began March 24 to fore,\ Yugoslavia tu allow freedom for tlw ethnic Albanian majority in the Serb provincfl of Kosovo. 
Any Yugoslav army or Serb police commandnr who "plans, instigates, ordtirs or nvnn aids or abets in a war nimu. r.rimes against humanity, or gmwddo. is individually rnsponsiblo for crim11s committed in Kosovo," said State l}()parlment spokesman James Rubin. The dramatic warning l.istcd tho names of' nine lop Serb commanders. 
Hubin said the U.S. government had 1m specitic evidencn that the individu­als ordored soldiers to r.ommit crimes. But Im said commanders could be prosecuted for allowing crimes to occur or for not prosecuting soldiers who commit them. 
"We'rn not saying that these individ­uals. to our knowledge, are responsi­ble for war crimes," he said. "We'rn putting Lhcm on notice." 
/\ determination that they were act­
ing under ordflrs from Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic, who has alsu hnen targr.ted by 
U.S. officials for possible proseculion, would not hHtVH thnm immune, Hubin said. 
Tho deci-
It relayed claims of mass killings, rapes, a forced march. execution vic­tims left on streets, injured children, people stuffed in rail cars and beat­ings. Not all aggressors were soldiers, tho report said. Some ethnic Albanians recognized the voices of Serb neigh­bors behind black masks. 
"The widespread and systematic charar.ter of the criminal. conduct of Serb military, paramilitary and police units in Kosovo is among many of the indicators of genocide that we are see­ing," it said. 
Scheffer is setting up a reporting 
'ITIS NOT ENOUGH NOW 
FOR MR. MILOSEVIC TO SAY THAT HIS FORCES WILL CEASE ARE ON A Kosovo DENIED ITS FREEDOM AND 
PRESIDENT CLINTON 
system for tho re[ugees' sto­ries, with other interviews con­tinuing by U.S. ofl'icials work­ing among them: 
i\ t lh e Pentagon late Wednesday, defense offi­cials said a 
U · S · ArmY unmanned 1-1 unter spy air­craft had 
sion to name names came after David Schefl'nr. ambassador at large for war crimes issues, presented top officials thn results of 15 hours nf interviews at the Yugoslavia-Macedonia horder. Scheffer. who talked to refugees wilh­out revoaling his identity, presented a litany of horror reminiscent of the llolocaust, although his report said the crimes could not yet be individually verified. 
"One refugee who sought to carry his mother was stopped, his mother shot dead, and then told by the Serb who shot the mother that, 'Look, I've made your hiku easier,'" the report said. 
crashed, apparently shot down by Yugoslav forces. The only other air­craft lost by NATO in the air campaign was an Air Force F-117A stealth fight­er-bomber. The pilot was rescued and the Pentagon has not confirmed reports it was shot down. 
Earlier, spokesman Michael Doubleday said NATO would not stop its current operations ber.ause of the effort by Cypriot parliament leader Spyros Kyprianou to gain the release of the three U.S. servicemen. But he said, "We have total control of the operations and certainly if it's neces­sary to have an aircraft fly into an 
area or out of an area at any limo, that could be arranged." Other oflicials said this meant bomb­ing would have to stop. 
Pentagon spokesman Kenneth Bacon issued a statement warning journalists in Belgrade their safoty could not be guaranteed. He said thorc could he no advance warning of NATO airstrikns and news organizations should be aware "there is substantial risk involved in having people in Belgrade." 
Clinton dismissed Milosevic's promise of a cease-firn as hollow, and 
U.S. officials said they could not verify that it was occurring. Clinton said NATO was "determined to stay united and to persist until we prevail." 
"It is not enough now for Mr. Milosevic to say that his forces will cease fire on a Kosovo denied its rrne­dom and devoid of its people," Clinton said. "Ile must withdraw his forcos, lel the refugees return, pnrmit the deployment of' an international securi­ty force." 
Vice President Al Gore, on a cam­paign visit to in Waterloo, Iowa, echoed the latest report of atrocities. 
"We cannot begin the 21st century with thugs in black ski masks knock­ing on doors in the middle of the night and seeking power with the expression of evil," said Gore, charging Milosevic with "segregating people according to race and ethnicity." 
The Serb commanders on the State Department list being sent with other evidence to the special Yugoslav war crimes tribunal in The Hague, Netherlands, are Col. Milos Mandie. Maj. Gen. Vladimir Lazarevic, Col. Mladon Cirkovic, Col. Dragan Zivanovic, Col. Krsman Jelic, Col. Bozidar Delic. Col. Radojko Stefanovic. Col. Milos Djosan and Maj. Zeljko Pekovic. 
Take aCloser Look at Your Alcohol use 
Place a check next to statements that are true for you. 
D Is your personality altered when you consume alcohol? 
D When your in a social situation and no alcohol is provided, do you feel uncomfortable? 
D Has drinking ever caused you to be late for class or work? 
. Do you sometimes have a drink to help you 
fall asleep? 
. When you drink, do you usually end up 
drunk? 
D Do you use alcohol as an escape when your stressed? 
. Do certain friends or places encourage you to drink? 
D Do you crave a drink at a specific time every day, like after class or after work? 
O When you are out with friends, do you ever sneak drinks without their knowledge? 
. Have you ever promised yourself to slow down or stop drinking, but rind you can only deep the promise for a few days or weeks at a time? 
D Have any family or friends ever expressed concern ahoul your drinking? 
D ls it difficult for you to slop drinking after you've had one or two drinks? 
. Do you cat very little or irregularly when you are drinking? 
D Do you ever have difficulty remembering the day after drinking? 
. Do you sometimes feel guilty about your drinking? 
D Do you want to continue drinking even after your friends say they have had enough alcohol? 
. Do you get irritated when your family or friends want to discuss your drinking? 
D Has your performance at school or work suffered because of your drinking? 
. Have you ever done anything sexual that you later regretted while you were under the influence of alcohol? 
D Have you ever spent significant parts of your day obtaining, consuming or recovering from the effects of alcohol? 
D Have you ever been arrested for intoxicated behavior or driving under the influence of alcohol? 
. Do you get hangovers or headaches after drinking? 
O Have you ever experienced severe at~xiety, 
shaking or visual or auditory hallucinations 
after drinking? 
O Have you ever gotten into an argument or a fistfight while you were drinking? 
D Have you ever lost a friend or created a rift with roommates or family members based on their feelings about your drinking? 
. When you're sober, do you regret things you said or did while you were drinking? 
D Have you tried switching from one kind of alcohol to another in an attempt to cut down on or remain in control of your drinking, or to try to avoid getting drunk? 
D Do you find that you spend too much money on flcohol? 
. Have you ever stayed drunk for a whole day, or became drunk for several days in a row? 
D Have you neglected classes, friends, family, work or other obligations due to your drinking? 
If you checked three or more statements, examine your habits honestly. Patterns of heavy drinking behavior in college could lead to personal, academic or legal difficulties right now, or more serious problems down the road. You may want to consider making an appointment at Alcohol and Drug Education for a confidential assessment ( 1-7970). 
If you checked a significant number of statements, there's a good chance you have an alcohol problem. It's in your best interest to seek help from Alcohol and Drug Education, (1-7970) or the University Counseling Center ( 1-7336). 
PAID FOi-\ BY THE OADE. 

page 8 The Observer• NEWS Thursday, April 8, 1999 

Jenny Jones Show is blamed for spurring Michigan shooting 
Associated Press 
PONTIAC, Mich. 
/\ psychiatrist testifying Wednesday in a $50 million wrongful death lawsuit blamed "The Jenny Jones Show" for the death of a gay guest who rrwenled a secrnt crush on another man. 
Jonathan Schmitz confessm.l Lo shooting Scott Amedure in 1995 three days after the taping-on the show, which never aired. 
Dr. Bernard Carroll, who testified for Amcdurc's family, said he thought the show dccr,ivcd Schmitz, whom he said suffered from mental ilhrnsscs: ­
"Jonathan Schmitz would not have killed Scott Amedure but !'or them appearing on this show," Carroll sai.d. "This was a psy­chological assault and battery." 
Arnodure's family sued the show and its producer, Warner Brns., claiming they ambushed a mentally ill Schmitz. The show contends it was not responsible for Amcdurn's death. 
Carroll said Im had rcviewr,d Schmitz's medical records, and had diagnosnd him as suffering from dopression and bipolar disorder with occasional psychotic episodes, and had a history of alcohol abuse. 
lln said Schmitz had once thought his girlfriend had died while she was on a trip, and had nailed himself' inside his apartment, built an alLar to lrnr and didn't leave for four days. 
Carroll also said the sho"v repeatedly told Schmitz bis secret admirer could bu a W()man -even though the title of the show was "Same Sex Secret Crushes" ~ and that Schmitz did not want to believe otherwise. 
When thP adminir was revealed as Amedure, and Amedure describes a sexual fantasy about Schmitz, Carroll said the show turned into a "sadomasochistic situation." 
"He's being abused, but at the same time he's tolerates it because he's unable to marshal the resources to leave," he tes­tified. 
Schmitz turned violent three days later only after he couldn't suppress his pain any longer, Carroll said. 
The defense was set to question Carroll on Thursday. 
In 1996, Schmitz was convicted of Amedure's murder. The verdict was overturned because of an error in jury selection. 1-lis retrial is scheduled for Aug. 19. 
the work done by professional specialists is administrative or
Senate 
technical. Any teaching done is continued from page 1 usually in first year courses. 
The reasons for the solve any problems that may increase, as proposed by the arise regarding the financial committee, were the need to state of the University, they staff increasing centers and said. labs and increased adminis­trative tasks required by In other senate news: departments. The committee 
• The Academic Affairs concluded that there was no Committee completed a survey cause for alarm, and that the on the increase of professional increase in professional spe­specialists at Notre Dame. The cialists were of no threat to committee found that most of the regular teaching faculty. 
Got News? Call 1-5323. 

ND hosting talks on deD1ocracy 
Former Netherlands 
prime minister will give keynote speech 
Special to The Observer 
former prime minister of the Netherlands Ruud Lubbers will deliver the keynote address of thfl Christian Democracy in Europe and Latin America conference convening at tlrn University on Friday, Saturday and Sunday. 
According to Scott Mainwaring, µrofossor of gov­ernment at Notre Dame, the conference is believed to be the first ever to combin~ analysis of Christian Democracy in Europe as well as in Latin America. The top academic authorities in the 
U.S. will particiµate, with government figures from Europe and Latin America, including Osvaldo Hurtado, former president of Equador; Ignacio Walker, a member of' the national congress in Chile; and Ricardo Arias Calderon, former vice presi­dent of Panama. 
The conference is an effort of the Nanovic and Kellogg Institutes of the University to foster ongoing research and encourage debate between academics and policy-mak­ers, Mainwaring said. 
Lubbers will speak on "Christian Democracy in a Global World" at 5:30 p.m. Friday in McKenna Hall, the Center for Continuing Education, where all the con­ference sessions will meet. 
Lubbers currently teaches globalization studies at the University of Tiburg in the Netherlands and at the John 
F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard Univer¥ity. 
LublH1rs was the Netherlands' longest serving prime minister, holding nf'fice from 1982-1994. Ile was edu­cated at Canisius Colloge in Nijmegen and the Netherlands School of Economics, and he originally planned an academic career. 
However, compelled by cir­cumstances to help manage the family business, Lubbers' Construction Workshops and Machinef'abriek Hollendia B.V., he became chairman of the Young Christian Ernploy1;rs Federation in 1964 and later served as chairman of the Catholic Association of Metalwork Employers and a member of the board of the Netherlands Christian Employers Federation. 
Lubbers served as minister for economic affairs in the Den Uy! government from 1973 to 1977 as a member of the Catholic People's Party (KVP). He returned to parlia­
ment in 1977, becoming senior deputy parliamentary leader of the Christian Democratic Appeal .(CDA), an alliance between the KVP and two other denominational parties. 
In 1978 he became parlia­mentary leader of the alliance. 
Christian Democratic par­ties -combining Christian idcology, p rivato i nitiativc and state activism to imple­mPnt economic and welfare policies -played a leading role in establishing constitu­tional governments France, Italy and Germany at th<~ con­clusion of World War II. The parties also made significant contributions to the construc­tion of' the European Economic Community. 
As an international mov1:­m1rnt, Christian Democratic ideology has spread to Latin America, whflre Christian Democratic parties have gov­erned in Chil(\, V<rnezucda, and Ecuador. Similar parties also have played crucial rolns in facilitating translations to democratic rule in Central America. 
Despite its significancr, in Europe and Latin America, said Mainwaring, the role of Christian Democratic ideology in shaping political activity has been understudied, par­ticularly in the English­speaking world. 


Shouldn't you? 
Register now for foll 
For more information on course offerings call 631-6781 
2701 ROIT 101 01 Beginning Italian I 3.0 MWF 09:35-10:25 T 09:30-10:20 2702 ROIT 101 02 Beginning Italian I 3.0 MWF 10:40-11 :30 H 11 :00-11 :50 2703 ROIT 101 03 Beginning Italian I 3.0 MWF 10:40-11 :30 H 11 :00-11 :50 3412 ROIT 101 04 Beginning Italian I 3.0 MWF 11 :45-12:35 H 11:00-11:50 4936 ROIT 101 05 Beginning Italian I 3.0 MWF 12:50-01 :40 H 12:30-01 :20 
5296 ROIT 201 01 Comprehensive 2nd yr 3.0 MWF 09:35-10:25 5297 ROIT 201 02 Comprehensive 2nd yr 3.0 MWF 10:40-11 :30 5298 ROIT 201 03 Comprehensive 2nd yr 3.0 MWF 11 :45-12:35 
2952 ROIT 111 F 01 Intensive Beginning I 5.0 MWF 09:35-10:25 TH 09:30-10:45 1359 ROIT 111 F 02 Intensive Beginning I 5.0 MWF 10:40-11 :30 TH11:00-12:15 5295 ROIT 112F01 Intensive Beginning II 5.0 MWF 12:50-01 :40 TH 12:30-01 :45 
4937 ROIT 240 01 OK Computer Italian 3.0 TH 11 :00-12:15 (Cachey, T.) 
3545 ROIT 345 01 Intro Med & Ren Lit 3.0 TH 09:30-10:45 (Moevs, C.) 
4939 ROIT 411 01 Cinema e Letteratura 3.0 MW 11 :45·01 :00 (Ryan, C.) 
3654 ROIT 421 01 Dante I 3.0 TH 02:00-03: 15 (Cachey, T.) 
3246 ROIT 501 01 Ital Lang Acq Methods1 .5 F 02:-03:15 (Ryan, C.) 4390 ROIT 546 01 Venetian & N. Ital. Art 3.0 TH 09:30-10:45 (Coleman, R.) 5246 ROIT 581 01 Gramsci: Cult Pol Crit 3.0 w 06:30-09:00 (Buttigieg, J.) 4403 ROIT 583 01 Courts Renaiss Italy 3.0 M 02:00-04:00 (Rosenberg, C.) 


Are Pro-Life Demonstrators 

Presented by 
G. Robert Blakey 
and 
Joseph Scheidler Thursday, April 8 4 p.m. Notre Dame Law School Courtroom Sponsored by Notre Dame Law School Right to Life Refreshments will follow the lecture. 

Joseph Scheidler is the executive 
director of the Pro-Life Action League, a national pro-life educational aml activist organization. Mr. Scheidler was the primary defendant in a lawsuit brought by the National Organization for Women under the Racketeer 

Influenced and Corrupt Organization 
Act (RICO). (NOW v. Scheidler). 
G. Robert Blakey, William and 
Dorothy O'Neill Professor of Law, Notre Dame Law School, is the nation's foremost authority on the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organization Act (RICO). He has been personally involved in drafting and implementing RICO and RICO-type legislation in 22 of the 29 states that have enacted racketeering laws. He argued NOW v. Scheidler before the United States Supreme Court. 


VIEWPOINT 
page 10 
----------------~ Thursday, April 8, 1999 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAHE OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 

1999-2000 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-rN~CHIEF 
Michelle Krupa "-1ANAGING EDITOR 8L'SJNE.SS MANAGER 
M. Shannon Ryan Dave Rogero 
J\sslSTANT MANAGING EDITOR Lau I a Pctclle 
NEWS EnrroR ...........Tim Logan AllVERTISINC MA!"-:AGEIL. ......... ..... .. .. Bryan Lutz Vrnwro1NT EDITOR ............Colleen Gaughen An DESIGN MANAGER ............... Kenneth Kearney SPOR"fS EDITOR ...,,, ... Brian Ke~.,ler SYSTEM~ MA:-.'AG[lt, ................,......Mic'1ad Re\·ers SCENE tlllTOR . .. ... Michael Vanegas 0.lNTROLLER..................................Timothy Lane SAINr MAAv's EDITOR ....... Collecn McCanhy GRAPHICS EDITOR..............................Joe Mudler PHOTO EDITOR .... . ............... Kevin Dolum WfB AflMlNl~TRAmR. ...Erik Kushto 
The Observer is rhe ind("pcnlfmr n~\~PJPCT puhli!tht't! hy ,he !lrudc:nts ofthe University ofNoue [lime do Lac and Sauu Mary'i. CoUcgc. Ii: Joo no, ncu:.).'iarily reflccl rhc policic. of the adnu11imation of dtht.:r urniruuon. The news is n:ponn:i as accur.m:ly and ob1ttc1vdr a~ pm~iblC". Unsignc:J edhorials represent th~ opinion of the majoriry of the 
Editor-in-Chief. Managing EJiror, A-.,istilnl M,m.Jging Edihir ,md J<:p,mnicnr cJiton.., Comm.:mo11ics, leru;_r!. and column~ prc5tm chc Yicws orrhc: ;1u1hor;, aod 1101 ncci..-ssarily tho.'>C ofThe Observer, Viewpoint space is available: mall memhcrs uf ,he N(Jtrc Damc-/S~int Mary"5 commanity ,mJ to all rc.tllers. The free exprc~'iion of var}·ing opinions 1hrouih ler:~rs is encouraged, 
Contacting The Observer 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Office M.rnagcr/Gencral fofonuatiou 631-7471 Managin~ Edi1or/Assi,tanr MF 6.'11-4541 llusincs, Office 631-5313 News 631-5323 Advertising G31-G900/8840 Viewpoinr 6.'11-5303 Sy>tcms/Wcb Administramr 631-8839 Sporn 631-4543 Fax 631-6927 Scene 631-4540 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu Sairll M,u/s 6,1 l-4.i2·'! New::. E-1v1ail observcr.ob\news. l@nd.edu Photo 631-8767 Viewpoint E-Mail observer. viewpoinr. l@nd.edu 
¦ Foa A MORE Jusr AND HUMANE WORLD 
From Ideals to Realities: My Education in Racism 
I write today to share a few rellections on a week spent traveling in the South learning about the civil rights movement. It was spring break, and I, along with eight other Notre Dame undergrads, was a participant in the inaugural Center for Social Concerns Civil Rights Issues Seminar. 
Tom Kilroy 
1 share my reflections on the seminar experience with the hope that a few will be inspired to participate in the future, but. more than this, I share with the hope that my thoughts will cause many to ques­tion their o¼n opinions and feelings on civil rights. I am confident in this latter hope because I found my own under­standing of civil rights radically chal­lenged by my spring break experience. 
Let me begin with a bit of my own histo­ry as it relates to civil rights. It is nothing uncommon. I relate it here mostly because I suspect that many of you will detect a bit of your own history in mine. I grew up in a predominantly, almost entirely, white suburb. While there were 700 students in my high school graduat­ing class, less than 10 of them were black. 
Nevertheless, the schools I attended provided, from the fourth grade on, an extensive education in the civil rights movement. The dominant figure in lhat education was Martin Luther King, Jr., and the dominant themes were racial equality and racial harmony, both embod­ied in his famous "I Iiave a Dream" speP-ch. From this education, I learned that lhe whole purpose of the civil rights movement had been to cmate a world where skin color is meaningloss and no more important than hair color. 
From this understanding of the civil rights movement, you can easily surmise my opinions on contemporary initiatives like affirmative action. I believed these proposals to be a corruption of civil rights as they had been embodied by King, for these policies were anything but color­blind. 
Let me take the specific example of affirmative action on college campuses. I accepted the basic principle of these pro­grams. I accepted the importance of diversity in a student population. My own educational experiences were direct proof that learning is profoundly enriched when one's fellow-learners come from diverse backgrounds and experiences. 
Furthermore. I recognized that econom­ic inequalities often result in lower stan­dardized test scores that are more reflec­tive of a lack of opportunity than a lack of intelligence. For this reason, it seemed to me that affirmative action should take place, but it should select first those who can demonstrate the diversity and rich­ness of their personal experiences in an application essay, and second those who can demonstrate on a financial aid form that lhey have been at an economic disad­vantage in their education. Skin color has no necessary tie to either of these qualifi­cations. I concluded that an affirmative action program that selects on the basis of skin color is just another form of the discrimination against which King had battled. 
Driving south for the Civil Rights Seminar, I descended from the ideals of color-blindness into the hard realities of racial discrimination. That descent can be reduced to two principles. First, I learned that despite idealistic talk of color-blind­ness, black skin color does matter in the sense that it signifies membership in the African-American community, a commu­nity foreign to Anglo-American communi­ties. Second, I learned a hard fact of human nature, that different communities will, when given convenient opportunity, discriminate against one another. 
The first principle. that skin color does matter, is well illustrated by the experi­ences of William Kindall, a black Catholic educator, who spoke to our group at a grade school in Birmingham. When he attended Mass as a child, he always took communion last because of the color of his skin. When he attempted to shop in downtown Birmingham stores, his dollars were refused because of the color of his skin. When he tried to use public restrooms and water fountains, he was denied access because of the color of his skin. In this sense, skin color matters because white America has made it mat­ter. 
Yet Kindall will tell you that skin color matters for a more significant reason than this. Black matters because it signi­fies a rich African ancestry. For Kindall, this part of his identity was ignored and treated as inferior in his Catholic educa­tion. Ironically, he knew more about the Polish traditions of the nuns who instruct­ed him than about his own ancestral roots. 
llis challenge as an educator today is to teach his students the profound dignity of their own African identity. A crucial part of this challenge is to make a connection between being Catholic and being African. For Kindall, this connection lies in the Ethiopian Catholic tradition. (Should you make it to Atlanta, visit the new Catholic church on the campus of Clark Atlanta University; it is modeled after the ancient Catholic churches of Ethiopia.) 
Kindall's experience demonstrates that black skin color is not meaningless. Black matters because it symbolizes both a his­tory of American oppression and a rich African heritage. Those who share this common identity seek to live together and to worship together; they seek to form a community. 
This brings us to the second principle that different communities will, when given convenient opportunity, discrimi­nate against one another. Human beings are creatures of habit and fearful of what is foreign. When given the opportunity, members of a community associate only with others of their own community. Whichever group controls the institutions of education and employment tends to block those outside their group from equal sharing in these institutions. Human beings, when they find themselves in a stable situation, prefer maintenance of the status quo to the achievement of justice. A painful reminder of this reality is that segregation ended in the South not 
¦ DOONESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU  
COAOI, I l?ON'T HAif; TO 7!;/,,1,, 'l?JtJ YOO'Ve /A'JN&A MA8NI­F/CIJNTJOB IN Tl/RN/NG llE~APOUNO. Pl& caJIPN7FEHAPPl&Rl  1£;M1A'ZING 7H/Mi15 ~ IT JtllJJ.tllle 54W.Kl, IAE:l<E /,.Cl5Ql5. Ya/  COAC/.IS/II/Fe.' CfJA{'J./!iIJIIIFel COACll5llll/fi/  
"'As.RE\  ~/  

because ideas of justice prevailed on southern whitns, leading them to change their opinions on race, but because the federal government forced change and because whites discovered that they could 
not survive economically if blacks refused to spend money in whitf1 businesses. 
If skin color docs matter in the sense that it causes us to split into different communities, and if different communities necessarily tend, by the very structure of human nature, to discriminate against one another, then we are led to the con­clusion that African-Americans will not be given a just share of resources without the institution of programs like allirma­tive action. Unless forced by the law or by economic need, whites will tend to dis­criminate against African-Americans. In such a situation, an appeal to the ideal of color-blindness is often a veil for the prac­tice of discrimination and the mainte­nance of the status quo. 
Again, we can turn to Kindall l'or an illustration of this point. The archdiocese of Birmingham controls two sets of schools, one predominantly white and the other entirely black. You can guess which set of schools has superior facilities and economic resources. 
Tom Kilroy is a senior in the Program of liberal Studies. 
For A More Just And llumane World is a bi-weekly column sponsored by the Cenler for Social Concerns. The author's views do not necessarily reflect the views ofthe Center.for Social Concerns or The Observer. 
¦ Quon: Of THE DAY 
, Jteach without the arro­gance of tenure.' 
-Thomas aKempis 
r-
VIEWPOINT 
Thumfay, April 8, 1999 --------------------
--------------------------page 11 
¦ LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Seminarians That Pull Rank Rude, on-Christian 
This (;oud Friday, us my family has occupincl by other lay pc:oplc, just like us. us. We were dismayed ancl shocked Ly the Church. drnw sin1:11 l rJ70, w11 got nmdy and drnvn Arn we calling question to Urn seminari-the attitude they displayed on a Good Th(\ irony of the 1)pisodn will be totally to thP Basilica of' tlw SarrPd llnart an ans' right to rosnrve seats for Good Friday Friday. Would Jesus have approved this" lost on them. Among the pnople they hour bt>liin• lhn srlwdulml sLarting lime cnn~monics'? Far from it. But they had ff this is the mentality they develop in the evacuated was au ordaiuod prinsl of' 41 for thP :•mrvin•s. This wus the 29th limn years who voluntarily declinnd an impor­my pan!nls had atlnmlncl Good Friday '--/ tant bishopric. lie porformcd yooman s1•rvirns at tho Basilica. thtl 27th for my , ~ snrvice to thn church, having assistnd in sish•r and 21st for rtHi. We got lo tlw _ _ the prnparaJion of the St!cond Vatican rliurch way alwad ill' t.imn to mako sure Council's Dor.mo on Non-Christians and w11 got. s1•ats right up f'ront. in important diplomatic sorvicn for the 
This tinw wn l'!'Hclmd llw church morn -~ ~ Vatican at a crucial timn in tlw Middh! than 4S minuLPs alrnad of Lime. m1suri11g ~East! There was also among tlwm a lady that rny l'allwr, who is romvm'ing from who had served with Mothor Tnresa at h:ich11•y rmwnr. had a pew lo sit i11. Wn .the early stages ol' her apostolate for the WPn· r.omf'ortulily s1!1..l1\cl i11 tv.o rows 011 f poor. lhl' IPl'I wing; t111~ 11slwr noddnd his ~ , Young and inexpcritmced, wn childr1111 apprnv,LI rn; ,w sat down. · were angry abnut Urn altorcation. but our 
Th1•rt> Wl'l'l1 only a fow minutns bof'orn parrmts told us that this was lhe wrong llw dn11ns and s,i'ml>Pr music wnrc to ·1 reaction. Their own feelings wern of' d<wp start. \V1: saL i11 praycrl'ul cxpcclalion. sadness -sad1rnss for tho young men ·1111•11 sudchmly, a young s(Hninarian who profoss to snrvo Christ but am l'ar appl'OadH•d us with tlw ush<'r, demand-from bning Christ-like, and sadness for ing that wo vacatn Llw µows, as they wcrn the church which thny arn going to sorw. rnsnwd liir snminarians. Wn w1:re pnr-WA pray that sorrniwhere along tlw way plPX<'d and apologi1tic, thinking that per-someono will toach them that the prinst­haps w11 had nncroar:lrnd 011 a rnsorvnd hood is to serve, not to pull rank. spac1•. Bui llwn• had b1\Pll tH1 signs. 110 Especially on the day WB rr•mernhnr Jnsus ropPs, and WI\ wPrn sitling there l'or little dying on the Cross! lnss than an hour. All that Linw. the uslwr L'...----""-----=z,____!_!______2-_=--""'-----''----~--'-------''---' 
was standing right in f'ront of us. Sown Kavita Pullapilly '94 lwsilatcd, b11L tlwv insistPd wn IPavc. not. Ifthey had some special role in the lirst years of their spiritual training, what Gita Pullapilly '99 hnlmrrnss1•d arnl humiliatn(I, Wll lc!l. We ritual, we could understand it, but lbat can the church expect from them when Lewis! !all 1111tk!'d that Wf' W!'l'P tlw only peop!P so was not the case. They wanted our seats they are ordained to the fullness of priest­April 7, 1999 ruddy !'Victl'd. Tlw rnst of'tlw pmvs wnrn solnly because they folt thny outranked ly authority'?! We felt sad for the future of 
Catholic Social Thought, the Pope, and Me 
Most ot' tlw men and women of l\iot.rn 
Danw am going to bu working in {horrors!) 
capitalist nnmomic systPms and (won, 
wmiD husirwss corporations. Those gradu­
altlS who work in nonpro(it corporations 
will b1• trying to raise money from class­
11rnt11s successful in business. In somn 
ways, tlm f'uturn of' Notru Dame depends 
on an alumni suct'.t1ssl'l1l in bushmss. 
So it is only realistic that Notre Damn should inauguraln a new concnntration in tlrn Catholic Social Tradition. Tlrnre cannot bn a n\alistic thnology or the laity without a down-to-Parth thnology of capitalism. 
Notrn Damn doesn't want lo speak to its studPnls with liirknd tongue: "We wanl you to he suc'.ccissl'ul in business. hut business is the dirty part of a corrupt system." 
A rww sort of inquiry is nncnssary -an inquiry into businnss as a central Christian vocation. Such an inquiry can be imaginnd only in Amnrica, and Notre Dame is the right plnn1 to g11t it done. 
Ainwd at praclicality, this new approach must b11 imagirwd from the bottom up, from tlw daily work of lay womnn and nwn. who rnnect on tlH1 Gospels, up into tlwory and first principlns. It must be con­reiwd of' oul-;id(! tll!l box or EuropPan aris­tocrncy (lrndilionalism) and socialism (pro­gressivism). Those systPms may have set Uw paramnt<ws of llw pasL They are not the systrnns or the Ii-Pe soci11ties of the futur<i. 
Tht1 qu1•stinns of the future, rather, are these: 
What arc tlie morally good foaturns or capitalism'! In what sensn is busirmss a nohln vocation? Is it as nohle as any other? In how many ways is business a necessary rnndition for raising up tho poor, thereby making clomrn:racy workablo'? In how 111any ,ww ways can lmsinnss sustain t.lw maL1'rial cl1icacy of' civil socioly? 
T1111s11 things arn truo: Thero can·t bo !1mployn<'s without ,·mploycm;. Th<,n~ can'l lw uo11-prnlits unless first llwrn am profits. Thm·1• can't be alleviation from pow1rty, jobs and decent inconws without economic 1'ntnrpris11 and activism. 
Furtlwrmon', /L<: 1lannah i\rcmdt points out in "011 Hevolution." llw uovolty that causPd the fomons sodaIproblem or 1•:urnpP in tlw ('arly I <Jtli cnntury was the prosp1•rity ol'llw American poor. Tho young Unil!id Stat<•s rnist?d up most of' iL'i poor so quickly thui. for lhn first. time in millmrnia. 1-:uropn bccamn ashamed or the 111h;twy of ils own punplt>s. As latn as 'I 862, Virt.or llugo dubbod them !es miserables. 
In his 11hw-part nitiq11e of my work and that of Hichard Neuhaus and Ccorge Weigel. profossor Todd David Whitmore 
lisls several poinlo; on which. he says, we dissent from the teaching of the pope. An intnresting turn of phrase. 
Were l so lucky as to be teaching in Notre Damn's theology department, I would gladly take the pledge of fidelity to Catholic teaching contemplated in Ex Corde Ecciesiae, a,<; I prnsume Professor Whitmore would. A'i a Catholic in a univer­sity that bills itself as Catholic, I would con­sider that an obligation under truth in advertising. Dissent as a way of denying the teaching authority of the pope and bishops is wrong. 
Since August of1947, when I first set foot on the campus of Notre Dame, I have dedicated some 50 years to trying to advance the field of Catholic social thought. i\t times, to bn sure, I have criticized popes and during the preceding century has bnen led almost entiroly by thinkers working within the quadrant Rome-Munich-Brussels­Paris. The experiences of Latin America. Africa and Asia were largely overlooked, and I.hat of North America was imagined to be Protestant, materialistic and excessively individualistic. Catholic social thought, in a way, was almost entirely European in con­ception and feel. 
In addition, European social thought was highly colored by the political and social leanings of most ofits practitioners, especially its professors, political leaders, and union officials. It had a decided European social democratic tinge. Catholic social thought was not in its essence social democratic; it aspired to be more than any mere ideology. But in most writers in the 
schools, there is not 
much critical distance 
bishops, too. I have prod­between their commit­clnd them to do better, ments to social democ­
'THE ROLE OF THINKERS
sometimes confronting ratic perspectives and 
IN THE FlELD OF
them with contradictions their understanding of in their expressions, CATHOLIC SOCIAL THOUGHT Catholic social doctrine. sometimes pointing out The two tend to be 
large matters going over-IS ·•• TO EXAMINE OLD treated as one. looked m1d at other times ISSUES WITH FRESH EYFS ...' Even at Notre Dame, 
prnposing new ideas and dnfinitions or caUing attention to important findings of economic or social analysis not yet accounted for in the­ological circles. 
The role of thinkers in the field of Catholic social thought is not only to follow popes or bL<ihops. It is also our role to explore nnw terrain (in advance of tlrn main body of the church and even of the popns), to try out new concepts, to propose new initiatives, to examine old issues with fresh ny1•s and tn bring to bear oxperiences heretofore disrngardcd. 
/\II this is not dis_,;,mt; it is a snrvicc to the Church. It is o(fon,d, in the end, in a spirit or humble obedience. "lloy, I'm not in charge here: I'm just an explorer, a scout. It's up to the teaching authority to decide what to do with all the information and analysis I bring back. It's up to mo to give it to you straight." 
I began leading a smninur among schol­ars in Washington in 1981, whose self­assigned task was to imagiun what the pope (whofwrir it might bl') ought to say in his encyclical on the economic questions or 1991, tho 100th anniversarv of' Lno Xlll's Remm Norarum. Wn all know thoro would be such an encyclical. The question was, "What ought it to say?" 
For ono thing, Catholic social thought 
as far back as 1948, 
when I expressed some 
admiration for Tom 
Dewey, I remember being told by a Holy Cross priest, "Michael, any good Catholic has to be a Democrat." 
Virtually of the points of dissent alleged by Whitmore have a different explanation. If you want to know the conventional wis­dom of most people in the !fold of Catholic social thought. he is your man. I try to point out self-contradictions, deficiencies in i11formation or analysis, ideological blind­ers. conventional prc,iudices and other untended business in the field. 
For instance, I have written at least a half-dozen artides on anomalies in the concept of"ecouomic rights." David llollenbach, for instance (Whitmorn's guide on the issue). took the now-discredited Marxist concepL of economic righlc; seri­ously, did not recognize its emptiness, and triod to intermix il with the Anglo­American concept of political and civil rights. These maneuvers raise a host of dif­ficult and unresolved questions, to which my articles embarrassingly pointod. 
The American term "rights" (as in "Bill ofHights") has an essentially diffnrnnt meaning from the term "rights" in Marxist jargon. In addition, in Pope John XXlll's Pacem in Terris the Catholic term "rights" has two different meanings for two differ­ent kinds of' "economic rights." One kind (the right to private property, personal eco­nomic initiative, and association -such as in business corporations and labor unions) is ,Lkin to the American political and civil rights or "natural rights." The other ki11d, called "welfare righl'>" or "entitlernrml<;," includes social assistance in old age, a just wage, vacation time, medical cam and thn like. The first kind warns others not to interfere in the subject's natural, legitimat11 actions. The second kind requires others, as a last resort, to do something for those in need. In brief, the term "righl'i" is nssnn­tially different in tlrnse two senses. 
The Christian socialist writer John Cort blames my articles for pushing the U.S. bishops away from the more social democ­ratic version of "economic righl'i" expressed in their second draft, bnfonl the final draft of their pastoral letter on eco­nomics in 1986. But Whitmore never deals with the nquivocations in the term "eco­nomic righLc;" that my articles uncovered. 
Finally, to the extent that Whitmore is worried about the relation of Neuhaus, WHigel and mysnlfto the popn: Not lo worry. Wnigel is preparing an authoritative biography of Popn .John Paul II with Urn Holy Father's nncouragnmenl and cooptlr­ation. The Holy Father appointed Father Richard Neuhaus to be a participant in thn Synod of the Anrnricas and has written in a letter how much he admirns Fatlrnr Neuhaus' book on the Synod, "Appointmnnt in Home." 
While I cannot claim Lho same dngren of' intimacy with .John Paul II, it is no secrnl that since 1978, I havii written all my books on Catholic social thought (<'ight in all) in homage lo him. and sent him copins of all of them. "The Spirit of Dmuo1Tatic Capitalism," in its illogal underground edi­tion put out by the Polish Labor Union Solidarnosc in Polish in 1985, was sent to him by the Union bcforn th(\y could get a copy to me. 
I do not nrnan to claim Pope John Paul ll's approval for my views. only that he wants to hear tho views of Anrnricans and to includo Amorican expnricnco in Catholic social thought. For myself, I try always to illuminatn the path ahnad. To play a useful role. it is not necessary to bo right all tho time. Even mistaken nfforts can light thn path for someonn else. 
Michael Novak, '51 N~w York, N.Y. April 6, 199'/ 

T E 0 N 
page 12 -------------------------------~--------Thursday,April 8, 1999 

Become a couch potato 
Hopefully there won't be too much happiness to go around, which has made it mildly watchable over the years. 
And then there is David Kelly's "Ally McBeal," the insane legal drama/comedy that has endured the whole short-skirt controversy, the unfortunate anorexic Calista controversy and even some unwanted guest shots (John Ritter and Cousin Larrv from 
"Perfect Strangers") to celebrate a successful sophomore season. 
The suggestion here is to either tape "Raymond" or "Ally McBeal," while watching the other live. But that's just for diehard Monday night TV fans. 
Other notablP choices include NBC's "Mad About You" (in its last season) and "Suddenly Susan" and WB's "7th Heaven." 
Tuesdav 
For those in regular Notre Dame dorm rooms, NBC is the winner on Tuesday nights. For those cable-enriched Belles at Saint Mary's, Tuesday TV is a tough choice. 
Though not as strong as it used to be, NBC's "Third Rock from the Sun" still has its moments as the intentionally overacted Solomons continue to under­stand the nature of humankind. 
Followed by the under­appreciated "NewsRadio," which still boasts one of the best comic ensembles on TV, "Third Rock" starts NBC's second-place must-see night. 
"Just Shoot Me" comes next, which continues to build the momentum neces­sary to become the next big thing for television. lt's too bad that "Just Shoot Me" did not get "Seinfeld"'s for­mer Thursday night slot ­it certainly is a better fit than "Frasier." 
The night ends (at least this season) with "Will and Grace," which recently made the move over to Thursday. As the anchor for NBC's Tuesday, "Will and Grace" offered a different take on the situation that "Ellen" gave America a couple of years ago. This time, though, the "breakthrough" factor is not so political, which makes it much more watchable. 
Unfortunately for those without cable, "Buffy the Vampire Slayer" and "Felicity" also air on Tuesday night. Heralded as one of the best shows on televi­sion today, "Buffy" brings action, romance, comedy, Sarah Michelle Gellar and much more to American television. So this is the best time to take advantage of those friends who have access to WGN, as the WB network does not air its shows in good ol' South Bend. 
Other notable choices include Fox's "King of the Hill" and "The PJs," ABC's "Home Improvement," "Spin City," "Sports Night" and "NYPD Blue" and CBS's "JAG." 
Wednesdav 
It's ABC's turn now, and Wednesday night on the alphabet is proudly the goofiest, zaniest night of telfwision, 
"Dharma and Greg" starts the night with an "opposites attract" premise that has proved not so hokey as it did when the show premiered in October. Star Jenna Flfman has dPscribcd "Dharma and Greg" as a show that cele­brates happiness instead of cyni­cism. This is definitely a factor for its success, especially with "Seinfeld," the king of cynicism, leaving TV last May. 
For most of this season, "Two Guys, a Girl, and a Pizza Place" has followed "Dharma and Greg·· in an uproarious fashion. 
By MIKE VANEGAS Scene Edirnr 
Snuggled in the corner of just about every dorm room on campus, the television is that one prized possession that most Americans cherish as a neces­sity or survival. For students, the television is abun­dantly more important than it is for people with normal lives. To catch that half-hour of relaxed abandon in the midst of an overloaded schedule is crucial to a student's mode of normalcy. 
With this extreme reliance on the medium of tele­vision comes the unfortunate but necessary decision each evening to choose one of many channels; one of many shows. With the dust settled on all of those fall television mishaps, here are some recommenda­tions on what to watch when there's some of that rare spare time: 
sundav 
Sunday is probably the most troubling night for television-watching, only in that it marks the end of what might be a long, forgettable weekend. With the looming week of classes and homework, many students find it necessary to make Sunday night a night of concentration and focus. 
Yet Fox doesn't care one way or the other about homework. Presenting one of the more entertaining nights of television, the network has created a great foundation for the week. 
"The Simpsons" starts the evening with that trademark laugh-a-minute comic zest. Having been the main factor in Fox's ascent as a major network, "The Simpsons" has shown no signs of fading. It is and will always be a must-see. 
Of late, Fo~ has been using the post-"Simpsons" slot to test its new shows. Last season, "King of the Hill" and its redneck Hank Hill ruled the time-slot. This season, "That '70s Show" has taken the cush­ion. 
Hoping that "That '70s Show" continues in this spot next season (its season finale has already aired and other 'toons "Futurama" and "The Family Guy" have replaced it) Sunday night looks to be a full night of Fox. With its retro costumes and over-the­top but convincing teenage sitcom feel, "That '70s Show" consistently provides laughs, and bridges the wait between the historically hilarious "Simpsons" and the cult-fave, "The X-Files." 
Thus comes the greatest of all conspiracy drama/alien/comedy shows ever. It is important to remember that "The X-Files" has only one more season to go after this season. Starring the sexiest couple on television (Gillian Anderson as Dana Scully and David Duchovny as Fox Mulder) the show has only gotten better as it has gotten older. This past season has been marked with a comic tone that makes the truth that the show longs for that much more interesting. Once this show is over, Sunday night is pretty much over as well. 
Other notable choices include ABC's "The Practice" and CBS's "60 Minutes" and "Touched by an Angel." 

Photo courtesy of Fox 
David Duchovney and Gillian Anderson star in "The X­Files," Sunday night's must-see drama. 
Mondav 
Monday night is a toss-up between Fox and CBS. With the strength of Bill Cosby iu "Cosl.Jy," and the awesome chemistry of "Everybody Loves Raymond," CBS rules the sitcom world on Monday night. With "Raymond" growing i11 popularity each week and "Cosby" consistently bringing in vi0wcrs, CBS cer­tainly has put together a decent night of television. The relatively weaker "King of Queens," though still providing good comedy, loses out to the dying "Melrose Place" on Fox. 
It is the demise of "Melrose" that makes it worth the hour at least until May. How will it end? 
its own among this strong night of comedy. Telling the stories of three young Bostonians as they start their careers, "Two Guys" exudes a sarcastically pleasant tone that makes audiences root for the trio, even though their selfishness is sometimes unappealing -unlike "Seinfeld," which forced audiences to happily despise its characters. 
"The Drew Carey Show" continues ABC's night of dominance, and can boast that it brought ABC back to sitcom prominence. Led by comedian Drew Carey, the show is another strong ensemble comedy that basically is in the mix just for fun. Resembling a bunch of college-age buffoons. "Drew Carey'' is perfect for those who don't want to think. those who just want to sit there, watch and laugh. 
Finishing off what might be called the Drew Carey hour, that is, until it was taken off the air recently, is "Whose Line is it Anyway?," the improvised com­ody that showcases several of Carey's improvisa­tional buddies. Despite being sometimes a bit repet­itive, "Whose Line" is usually a laugh-fest atypical of regular television. Its unique quality is what makes the show a winner. Although it is currently in hiatus, it is expected to return either during the summP-r or nt'xt fall. 
If comedy isn't too appealing, one can always flip to Fox or the WB, where dramas rule on Wednesday night. On Fox, the geriatric "Beverly Hills, 90210" continues its run as a "teenage" show. although most of its actors are in their 30s. Word 
has it that a new cast will return to West Beverly to help the show return to its glory years of virginity-loss and the school newspaper. 
"Party of Five" follows "90210," casting an oh-too dreary spell on each and every one of its viewers. If a whine-festival is at all appealing, "Party" is the best ticket to whineville. 
On the WB. the big-head­ed James Van Der Beek stars with the breathtaking Katie Holmes in the coming­of-age "Dawson's Creek," whose hype has overshad­owed the fact that there is a pretty good show on that tiny network. But, like its 
Tuesday night friends, "Dawson" is on the WB. which can only be reached on cable. 
Other notable choices include NBC's "Law and Order," CBS's "The Nanny" (in its last season) and "Chicago Hope" and WB's "Charmed." 
Thursdav 
It's been a while since Thursday night television hasn't been all-NBC, all the time. With such mega­hits as "The Cosby Show," "Cheers" and "Seinfeld," Must-See TV Thursday continues its dominance with "Friends," "Frasier" and "ER" as its basic mainstays. 
On "Friends," only one thing can be said: It is the best comedy on television. Especially with the departure of Seinfeld, "Friends" only proved that it could glow without having to be followed by a more popular show. Here's to not having Ross and Hachel get back together. at least until the very last episode, or until the reunion special in 2025. 
"Frasier," although still a great show, just doesn't fit on Thursdays, and has suf­fered because or the mis­match. Still, it is a very good show -better than most ­and unfortunatelv has to fol­low the best show on televi­sion. 
"EH," will finish the soason once again as the top-rated show on all of' te!Pvision. even though it has really taken a beating this past year. Using ov,~ry episode to preface Geo1·ge Clooney's exit, the show was an unnnc­essary brouhaha that could never provide the heart-stop­ping and nourishing drama that characterized its first few years. 
But "ER" fans should be 
Though most critics have Drew Carey (with glasses) and the cast of happy, as tho show has only expressed their disgust for this 'The Drew Carey Show" help ABC dominate improved since Batman lel't.Wednesday night TV. 
20-somcthing comedy, it holds Dr. Benton's (Eriq La Salin) 


Thursday, April 8, 1999 -----------------~ OTHE ---------------------page13
BSERVER 
T 
E8,'2 


Pholo counesy of ABC 
Thank goodness it's Friday when Ben Savage's coming-of­
age comedy "Boy Meets World" airs on ABC. 
solo npisocln was spectacular. and served to rnin­stalP this vicwur's f'ailh in a grnal hospital drama. 
Thn 11tlwr lwo l\iBC Thursday night shows {"Jesse" and "VPronica's Closc•t") most liknly will not havo Ion~ succnssf'ul runs on tlw notwork und will probu­lily wind up in sy11dic:alio11 1111 l.ifc!liurn or USA. as so many 01.l11•r Thursday 11ighr craphouses nmhJd their runs. 
The Weekend 
For most studPnts. Lim w1J1•kPnd is a timn for let­ting loosc!, f'orgdt.ing !'Vcirything f'orgcttab!n and parlyin).(. Thus, ll'lt>vision donsn't really hav1J a plan• during this d1aotic hut nm:nssary iPngth of ti11H•. Tll('rl' arc• a f'pw shows that ,ir1• worth the 
hour. but don't go ()lit of the way to watch them ­
thnrfl's a mason why they are on Friday or 
Saturday nights. 
The only good show on Friday is ABC's "Bny 
Meets World," which has grown st.ronger as the 
boy (Ben Savage) has gotten older. The friendships 
and lovn scenarios that occur as the boy and his 
follow cast members trek through college'arc great 
fun, Though somelimes the show becomes a forum 
for pretPntious young actors and their methods of 
overacting, "Boy Meets World" could hold its own 
on any other night ()f television. 
Saturday night also only brings out one decent show, in CBS' "Early Edition," "Edition" b one of' thosn funtasy-dramas that can take on a multitude of glmres throughout one hour, without overdoing any aspecl of good uilevision. Following bar owner Gary Hobson as he receives the following day's news each morning, the show becomes an action show every time Hobsou attempts to save some­mrn's lif'P.. As Hobson returns to his bar, where a supporling cast adds just enough variety, romance 
brews with his hot waitress, and friendship bright­f'ns the day with his blind co-owner. Sometimes a bit sappy. "Early Edition" is a nice family drama that isn't just for the family. 
Other notable choices include NBC's ''Homicide: Lifo on the Streel" and "Providence" (both on Fridays). Fox's "Millennium" (Fridays) and CBS's "Nash Bridges" (Fridays} and "Martial Law" (SalurdaysL 
That brings the week back to Sunday night, where the fun week of television-watching begins again. Enjoy the week of' drama and comedy, desperate laugh-getters and true heart-warmers. And remem­ber: procrastination is the greatest inspiration for doing a bad job well. 
,,••••,,.,,,: 
1111111 
.··rhe SilDPOD$" 1p.m. Fox j1he I-Flies" 8u.m. Fox 

ll11d11 
"Cosby'' 7P.01. CBS ··retelrose Place" 1p.m.Fox ."AIIV Mclear8p.m. Fox '!vervbOdl LovesRavmonf' 811m. CBS 
TUISdll 
··aunv the vampire Slaver" 7u.m. we u1ust Shoot Me" 8p.m. NBC "NewsRadlo" 8:30 p.m.NBC 
Don't l.a~e a cow, man! 

Write for Scene ... 
We're lool..ing for a few good coucl. potatoes lo w-atcl. some TV and write aLout -ii. 
If you're interested, 
Call Mil..e at 1-4540. 
If you're too lazy lo pie~ up tl.e pl.one, fry Scene@nd.edu.
Pholo courtesy of Fox 
If you want to w-orl.. for Scene, w-e need i\.s!iiistant Editor§ and Copy Editor§. 
1-4540 
Scene@nd.edu 

Wldllldll 
··oawson·s creek" 7p.m. we "Dharma and Greg" 1p.m. ABC "Drew Carev Show" Bp.m. ABC 
Tbursdav: 
"Friends" l P.DI. NBC "Frasier" 8p.m. NBC ••ER" 9p.m. NBC 
Frldll 
"Bov Meets World" 1:30 p.m. ABC 
Sat1rd11 
"Earlv Edldon" 7p.m. CBS 
aoodbve, so Long, Adlos, Farewell ... 
Iftt~ 
"Melrose Place" HMad About You" 'TheNannV'' 
and 
George Cloonev (Belated, but necessarvJ 
-
.. 
Photo courtesy of ABC 
page 14 The Observer• SPORTS Thursday, April 8, 1999 
¦ NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE 
Saints eye Williams in NFL draft 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS 
Just when Mike Ditka thought he'd never love again, the New Orleans Saints coach saw Rirkv Williams and fell hard. · 
How hard? Well. the man who judges all running backs by Walter Payton is willing to give up every draft pick this year. some from next year. and a few players as well to get the lleisman Trophy winner. 
"We're going to talk to the five teams one through five and see who has an interest in taking all of our picks." Saints general manager Bill Kuharich said on Wednesday. "Maybe all our picks and some other things. We want him. We think he can have an immediate impact on our whole team and our season." 
The Saints don't have a sec­ond-round pick: that was traded to St. Louis for wide receiver Eddie Kennison. Kuharich !;,aid that could be a deal breaker. But if a deal can be made, the Saints want to make it. 
"I think this player has an opportunity to make us better all around," Kuharich said. "He'll make our receivers bet­ter, our line better. our quarter­back better." 
Williams arrived at the Saints 
camp in the afternoon with little 
knowledge of the team -"I 
know they never won a playoff 
game, right?" -and worries 
about meeting Ditka. 
"All I knew about him was just what I'd seen of him walk­ing up and down the sidelines ­yelling," Williams said. "I didn't like the look on his face. You know, that m11an expression he has. He never looked happy, ever. I thought I'd hate to play for him, he doesn't smile. I was even afraid of him at the com­bine, I didn't want to meet him. But he's the nicest guy in the world." 
Ditka spent some time remi­
niscing about the glory years in 
Chicago. the days when Payton 
was carrying the ball and the 
Bears were dominating the NFC 
West. He also told Williams he 
wants to transfer that game 
plan to the Saints. 
"He said that when he had 

Walter. they needed a quarter­back," Williams said. "And he said, 'It wouldn't have mattered because any quarterback l had was just going to hand the ball off to Walter.' 
"He said he likes to run the ball. He's not going throw the ball around and turn the it over, he's just going to run the ball. They'll get mad at him and it'll be boring but he'll win." 
The Saints' offense was 28th in the NFL last season, dead last in rushing. 
The Saints are scheduled to pick 12th in the first round. They have picks in ever round except the second. 
"We have to get a feel for who would be interested in dropping down to the 12th spot," Kuharich said. "In dropping down to that spot, you get a very different group of players than you get in the top 10." 
Williams said he hoped the Saints could work out a deal, but didn't believe it would hap­pen. He speculated he'd go on the fitlh or sixth pick. Cleveland Browns director of football operations Dwight Clark said Williams impressed him during the workout, and Cleveland is the first team New Orleans should talk to. 
"If the Saints want to make sure they get him, that's the place to go," Clark said. "To me, you've got a great player with little knowns vs. a quarterback with a larger amount of unknowns." 

-A,1,m;v,i:7yder .r1places 'slewart at Mizzou 
A~soi:iated Press 
COLUMBIA, Mo. 
Quin Snyder got some adv.foe from someone who knows a thing or two about coa~ll:!11g ...... Mike Krzyzewski. The Duke coach told him to find ii place worthy of Ms
passion.· · 
"No.w Jt's my turn to show youl'm worthy of this pas­sion," Snyder said Wednesday after being hired to succeed Norm Stewart as Missouri's basketball coach. ''I'm unbelievablv excited about this opportunity. It's something I've dreamed about,.'' 
Sny1d..et, born the year 

Stewartbegan coaching at }was the top assis• 
recruiting coordina­tor/ti . er Krzyzewski the last foqr)easons. 
At ..32, he becomes the youngest coach in the Big 12 and follows a coach who resigned only six days earlier after winning 634 gamos in 32 seasons. 
· '.'(~{lW .in our brief meeting thatfi:re, that conviction. that us to a higher 
· "·.·•· hancellor Richard 
t~c¢ived a five..year 
. co.tit andinherits a team ihaiwent 20--9 last season and losfto New Mexico in the first round of the NCM tour­nament. He was the only one of the three finalists in Missourj's rapid-fire search with µo head coaching expe­rienc.e< 

etsi" 
s WerQ .Johp fired by the ets. and Bill Self 
0 
A Mike Ald id he didn't consult Sfe.:fv.~rfoJl the hire beyond informing him of the initial shott'1isL 
Ntgdugh Missouri tied for 
second in the Big 12 last sea• son. the Tigers have strug­gled in recent years. The NCAA tournament appear­ance was their first in four seasons, and nine players have transferred in the last five seasons. 
"twould like everv kid from Kansas City to St. 1:ouis to bfl thinking about playing for Missouri." Snyder said. 
The hire came on the first day of the late signing period, which runs through May 15. Missouri is looking to close the deal on threo top recruits. 
"I wouldn't say we felt any pressure," Alden said. "IL had nothing to do with recruits. My pressuro was with our student0 athletes. I indkated we were going to hit the ground running." 
Missouri is hoping Snyder's youth will help him connect with th() players. 
"Maybe he knows some of our music," freshman center Pat Schumacher said. "Thal would be pretty cool." 
Snyder. who also had been considered by Vanderbilt, San Diego State and Notre Dame, met briefly with his players before. the news conference. 
"We made a little circle and had aJittle talk," Snyder said. "I think they're excited about what we're going to be doing." 
Freshman point guard l(eyon Dooling had a mid­season falling out with Stewart and at one point had considered ~ransferring. He was all smiles Wednesday. 
"You could feel the vibes," DooUng said. "There were a number of good vibes." 
$pyder plans an up-tempo offense. 
"l want to see us push the ball," he said. "I want to run. Can we run, guys?" 
Snyder was the Duke point guard from 1986-89, making three trips to the Final Four. He is third on the school's career assist list. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. ar the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
ILOST & FOUND I  Hotel Help Wanted Holiday Inn/Univ. Area needs full & part time help for  FOR RENT  SUMMER SUBLEASE Upper COLLEGE PARK 2 Bdrm, A/C, wash/dryer  In DIRE need of graduation tickets PLEASE call John @271-8531  LOOKING for a great part•time job next fall? The Copy Shop in LaFortune is now accepting STU- 
Rest. & Bar Server.Bartender.Night  BED 'N BREAKFAST  also FURNITURE in great cond.  ROD  STEWART 3rd  ROW  DENT applications for '99-'00. Only  
Lost:  100 CDs that were In a black  Auditor.PM Van Driver.Desk  REGISTRY  couches tables, bedsCall 273-2917  APRIL 14 ... 272-7233  a few student postilions are avail- 
CaseLogic carrying case.  Lost in  Clerk.Banquet Capt. &  219-291-7153  able so apply now.  
LaFortune the night ol 2126/99  Servers.  Summer sublease ND Apts x4415  I need xtra Graduation Tickets.  
Monetary reward being offered if  Outstanding benefits.  House For Rent  Wilt pay generously!!!  Me so tired, Ma go home now.  
found.  No questions asked.  mcluding room discounts  4-5Bedroom  HOUSE:SUMMER SUBLEASE  Call x-1237  ask for Mike  
Please call Brian at 4-1126 w/ any  Apply at 515 Dixieway North.  Close to Campus  Bright, handsome 2 BR very close  Where's the desk phantom lately? I  
- info. !REWARD'  Wanted: 2 room mates for 5 bed­room house on St. Peter Street.  Includes: Dishwasher. Washer/Dryer, Fridge, Stove. Remodeling Kitchen in spring.  to Main Gate on Pokagon. AC, W&D, garage, yard, full kitchen with M/W and DW, furnished. 631-8084  I  PERSONAL  haven't seen him around, but I saw his handiwork  
Blue LL.Bean backpack lost/stolen  Call Tony. 634-1694  RENT REDUCED!  Fax it fast at THE COPY SHOP in  Hello Emily Snow I haven·t seen  
04101 in parking lot bit Lyons & Morrissey. If you have it or know  YOUR BABY NEED A HOME?  Call 289-4712  FOR SALE  LaFortune, FAX Senc1ing and Receiving: 631•FAX1  you at ALL lately. Dinner this week?  
where it is, please follow your con•  OUR HOME NEEDS A BABYI  5/6 BDRM HOMES. NEAR CAM·  And this one goes out to Kate  
science  Loving married couple seeks new- PUS. FURN. 272-6551  NEW Rates Phone Cards  When you need copies ...  Rowland. Just think: Soon, the  
& call 4-2900 to return ii to its  born to adopt.  $175/PERSON.  282 min. $20 call 258-4805  We're OPEN!!!  MCATs will be over and you can  
owner. THANK YOU!  Waiting to shower a child with lots  THE COPY SHOP  have your life back.  
of love& attention.  STAYING IN SOUTH BEND FOR  GUITAR-Fender Electric/Acoustic,  LaFortune Student Center  
Large, double pocket L.L. Bean  Will provide strong family environ·  THE SUMMER???  cut-away body, 1 yr old.  $350or  631-COPY  A big hey to Joe. Scott, Burt, and  
....  backpack w/ Pietasters patch. $50  ment and secure financial future.All  Lovely five-bedroom, single family  B/O. Includes case and stand.  Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight  the fourth roommate whose name I  
cash reward if returned w/contents.  allowable medical & legal expenses  house available for sub-lease.  Call Greg at 271-0138  Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm  still don't know.  
No questions asked.  paid.For more information about  About a mile from campus.  Sat:  Noon-6:00pm  
call 634· 1 061  us.please call toll free 1 ·888·652·  Safe neighborhood.  Beautiful brass bed,queen size.with  Sun:  Noon-Midnight  This Sunday, the Soup Nazis will  
8422  Clean. Two window  orthopedic mattress set and deluxe  ride again. Hopefully, they'll still be  
Lost Glasses: black, metal,  Dan and Tracy  air-conditioners.  frame.New.never used.still in plas•  COUNTDOWN TO THE  riding on Monday.  
oval, Safilo frames; clip on  ·working through adoption attorney  Washer and dryer,  tic.$235 219-862-2082  •• LEWIS CRUSH ••  
sunglasses; black case.  stove, refrige.  2 DAYS  Wait '!ii next year. Meredith. You  
If found call Paul @ 4·4765  WORKING IN CHICAGO this sum- Call 634-0562 for info.  Furniture for sale:couch, chairs,  will YOU be invited?  WILL play bookstore.  
..­ LOST: original music on campus. I  mer? 4th roommate needed. Call Emily 284-5416 or Rebecca x1464  FURN. ROOM;FURN. ONE BED·  entertainment center, beds Call 243-2856  No, cause I am a loser.  Bookstore Final Four prediction:  
know it's here somewhere, I iust  !or details.  ROOM APT;PRIVATE  Yu-Tang Clan. Vertical Smile, Poop  
haven'! seen it around. If found,  ENTRANCE.AIR, KITCHEN.LAUN­ FOR SALE: bed, couch, kitchen  English Classes at the South Bend  Dreams 2, 5 'Naughty Ladies.  
contact new SUB staH at 631-7757  EARN $6K-$9K/YR EXTRA!  DRY.PHONE.UTILITIES INCLUD•  table and more CALL 243-7686  English Institute. English taught as  
Local Area Counselors  ED,5 MIN N. CAMPUS  a Second Language. Located two  Romarball? Nah...we'II have to  
,.  WANTED  needed. Enjoy cross-cultural experiences?Support families and int'I nannies.Contact Kristen 888­ 272-0615 2 Bdrm Apt at College Park to sub•  TICKETS  blocks west of IUSB. • 9 LEVELS intensive training • NEW SESSION every 4 wks.  think of something else. Yesterday's ME 340 class was the  
AMERICAN FL YER trains ­ top  222-2966  lease tor summer session.  I need graduation tickets!  •PRIVATE TUTORING avail.  best ever!  We should have more  
dollar paid, call Dave at 273-9015  knelson@app.childcrest.com  Call 4·3620.  Call Kelly @243-8932  Phone 219-287-3622.  outside classes like that.  

, 
r:,y, 
Ap,;[ 8, 1999 page 15
The Observer. PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
/Ir. i'.' ,1.Jr,,,d '"!' Iii, 11., II, r Ir'//,,,. !ll!J',i'IM' !!/(}fr1/ !J/u~'(/1~/.Y _;,, i'Jh,. '•'! '.::jJ,J/1 !... ' rk· /!c7.l!,i,d ,,,,/ 111,/1, /Nd 1.-l/l;', !Ill P,,"//,." 11/(ifi.i'!' /l/11/,11 !(/: (I Ill,:,. ',( r',,JJ1V , ' 110111111,1 ,,;u.,,/ p,,,-:, /, .111'1 pal(/ 11 1?J11_1 1 ,>! /tn: l.:11!.: i!tillli111 •,,.;-,. w111dil,>illtlft.J ,,rd,·'J tl<''i',. 1,,/111 /'11iil 11 p.,1!1 1 ,if (/1''1 l.11/,-f1011J.-l111 ,,,1,, ii•it;J 1/:.· f•1:ri/f1!u. It.:, ,~imi·, ):•· .l1rm,i· ww;.J iwdrird Jti~'!;:1NJ pn>n11,· •· ''lf:J\ niwlt .,· ri'!k !It,•· h::t1L1!11.d1::1 p/.1,kf'.:o:,· .firm.; ww;J ;.,,1,lud /,ii.'/.:,, w ftflni1•·1:k,·t;-:, .,,-l!c!:r/1 1 , ,7k 
Aconversation abou 
I,; 
--~--...,...--.,......---.-..-----~ (fi 
,, , / c/11, l. 'II .,rJ/i/: !,>! !It.· .,.-wi ,; •, N,I 111<'!1, < //•,. ;,, rJ, 11,;,J ,1'1)!/ Ill, l1. !>Id l(li/i'' .'Ill/",. 11,1,lr111,1 ,11,.nJ 1)(1/,',; ;;,hir p,-,1(/ r. p,1k· A-i•(ll/{it/'1• p,111<; ,,:,· ,/;,,//,/' II .,_,7d Nr/
m,,1,·,,. tf1 f•·f 11/ti;/.•m;,r r.·1nl n;lfr,· ,,1uJ, · I,.(.~: mt/Ii nmill! !1: 11111rtlr.: • ,·;mdti . .-/1111,;,,/1.rd' nd,:mprkm .l!.111.'d u;hk /1'.•· ,/(1'[•')! .,;,;;.!h 1;; dmitki'J/ [·;11-./illtW !Jlrii7/pt! ,np1f// /;(;,1,:11 ,j,,,,.f.,rm1t,nl1t'11 /,'....~~· //1/.l.1.
r· . /. , ,
p:,,, ,,, ,·/,,)) Cl ·•i'{I// p,-o-r..· !rJll!,'/(' ,,, ,'tik;.:, m,,;k I lh,'.•,t. 'dl/f! J;,,,ri,~:,· !hi h;;l/1/1:, l1k r, l•,,rr!tltftt! 1t;ud1,,d h; ,,it rm,rd :it: ,i!ld.·,11 >cW/' l,11 //1, · .1,'ltl ), 1< :/rd ;11,/1:c .l rn. :lh· Ni1,krrrl'.1c111 mrhm,, }<'JJ, '.;' m,nmlt n,. 1/r'lli/Jl,j :-,.-;:red p,1rc· ,r,/m p.ml 11 /'r_ff(/' (f/ 
th:· /1r~i'fl1/1r.k, ,"!!f!t't:,·, ,/;.;'11,r ;PH>;./ lllr,·h..;J ki, 111n!r 11,I. 1 o-l 111:,.lm111tr ,'/1,/ 11,)11,· ,111,/,, Jr> ,,,rr-k_ 
.·Ir l,r/1, //t~i !itlllt;>~ ;! lltrlit,~ ., ....:i}l ,·,/rr,,->/ ;•1. ,lt.. H\/: t 1,~-,;:JJl/'/,·.,~1, ,/i(tll,\/":I".. />/,· ft\'-:~·i.'_;;t,.·kl,"/! /':,, 
•/,'Jill ,:'(1ih,:, .-/!!'.'',,JI ,;•..!t!i,'II !!l.t(iC'.il fllti/N'J/f /JN!J!!ht, 
,·:ili//.,:r:·t/11/ 1:t~,,,.,; •,,1'1,1!//,1/f }.:.. ,, />/r tr"r1/i' n'.-:-:il, •If)' J}·r"'/l:'l 
1111. 1 r>I , lo i' , 1 •r,11//r ,, , I I,-li'JJ/1 !, ' . " 
f//,·lf/i(! ft ./f',,f, £/odf!t 
!•1, •,i!,• coom • /if:• ., .. h·, ,/fl!/11/ /, 11r,!1tJ ,'Iii, kn, ,,wt: k•, 1!1r· · . • Ill, . ~/ I /, '.-/' . 1// .
It i · ' (l"I" ,, ,, 
11(1/11111,1 •ci,:!(.', ! 
rl!r h, ;.r11111d,·, 
itmlnkl.i r,4 ,i t,dk !l!I!! J,, I >r:-ilti'llk 1/, ·r;..JI 'j'lt.'' .'i'J'r'IT!I! Ii, 
l(l/,1 ('/ (, 
iJ/, ·r!tc'I /J/,' ,'.• I 
,Jn,ko
;/;,. ,,, 
llrJ//;/11 
rk· l•r~ 
I/Ill/,'//,. ,-/, · /u/.~ 
-Thurnday, Ap,il 8, 1999 . ~ 
page 16 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
With joy and thanksgiving the Congregation of Holy Cross and the families of: 
Christopher W. Cox. C.S.C. Michael C. Mathews. C.S.C. 
invite you to celebrate their ordination to the priesthood 
for lifelong service to the people of God. 


Rev. Michael C. Mathews, C.S.C., ND '94 Rev. Christopher W. Cox, C.S.C., ND '92 St. Joseph Parish, South Bend, Indiana St. John Vianney Parish, Goodyear, Arizona 
The Sacrament of Holy Orders will be conferred by the Most Reverend John M. D'Arcy, Bishop, Diocese of Fort Wayne-South Bend 

Saturday, April 10, 1999 
1:30 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
THEY ANSWERED THE CALL! 

&h-----------------------rr,:, 

~. The Senier ~lass 'Pl__.
• and Off ~ampus ~eunc1I -· Present ene last class dinner 
at Alumni-Senier ~lub Friday~ April 9 4:30-6:30 p.m. 
99e admissien 
Mast be 21 te enter 

Thursday, April 8, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 17 
likos Matt a lot." 
¦ MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL
Slocum would bring much
Recruits 
needed size to an Irish team returning only one player over
continued from page 24 6-foot-6. lie could step in at 
Giants use rally to sweep Reds 
center and J)lay alongside BigDoherty is trngflr to gd his East Bookie of the Year Troy
two rncruits in Lhe fold nexl Associated Prcss 
Murphy and sophomore~
f'all. lln Imel nicruit<id Carroll 
Harold Swanagan to form a
whiln serving as Hoy Williams Stan .Javier's rare right-hand­
solid front court for the noxt
top assistant at Kansas but ed homer sparked a third 
thrnc years.
personally has not soen straight eighth-inning rally, giv­
One player that will not be
Monsorcz play. ing the San Francisco Giants an 
wearing an Irish uniform next
''I'm glad tlwy dt>cidnd to 8-3 victory and a three-game
wintnr is (1-f'oot-fi Homeo
sli1·k with lhPir eornmitml'nts sweep of !he Cincinnati Beds on 
Augustine from Hayen, Ohio,
to Not r" Da m ,~ . " h1~ sII id . Wndnosdav. 
who V!!rbally commitLed to
"Tlwy'rp both good kids and Tho Giants won all three 
Notre Damn in Frbrunrv.
ar1• both wi111wrs. I look l'or­games -their lirsl such sweep
Augustine initially ·signed
ward to working with tlm111." in Cincinnati since 199'.-l •-by
with Tolndo during t.hc early
With tlw grnd11atio11 of' four rallying in the eighth inning in 
signing pr•riod in l\'ov<1mlrnr.
s1•uiors and llrn d1\parturcs of 1wcrv 0110. Their seven-run out­
hut his parents nil'used to sign
flans HasmussPn and !'Ptnr burst Wndncsday was the most 
Lim IPtler, voiding th4.1 intent.
Okwalinga during Llw season, stunning.
Ironically. i\ugusline, who
tlw Irish still havP four schol­San Francisco had only one hit 
f'ailf'(I to sign with frontrunner
itrships IPfl u11givHn. His, how­-Jeff KPnt's lcadol'f singlo in 
Providencti ynsterday. was on
<'vnr. highly unlikely that they the seventh -off Stnve Avery
the same i\11-Stato squad with
will iuk four playnrs this (0-1) and trailed 2-0 heading
Mons1ir()z in Ohio. 
spring. into Lim eighth. Avery, who has 
While at Kansas, Doherty
Tlw n1•xt ordnr of' business not pitched a complete game 
was able tu lure in tallmL from
!'or l>olwrty is lo co11vint·11 sinco 199b, got the first two outs 
throughout thn country,
Andy Slocum f'r11111 Louisiana in the eighth bol'ore walking
including .Jacque Vaug'hr1 and
to n;nw 11orlh to South !fond. pinch hittnr Ellis Burks. 
I' au I I'iPrcP from California
Till' l>-l'oot-11 lnfty l'nnt.rir Tho wa.lk was Avory's sixth ol' 
and H,wl' I .aFrnntz and incom­
had a Lr1•111P11do11s sP11ior y1:ar, the game, tying his carnor high.
ing f'rnshmai1 Nick Cullison
av,•raging 24 points. 14 .Javier, who had not hit a honu~r 
from Iowa.
rl'lmunds and l'ivn blocks al from the right side since June 
Dolwrty acknowlcdg1•s that
Wl'sl l\lomoc> l ligh School. 17, 1997, then pulled Avery's
he had a good position at
BPl'orn Mad,Pncl's rnsigna­112th pitch of the game to left 
Kansas, with its rich basket­
tion, it looked as ii' Slocum field to tie it. 
ball tradition and an cstab­
would lJf' playing for the Irish. Things quickly t:ame apart for AFP Photo
lislrnd coach in Hoy Williams.
but he now has op!•nocl up ttw Cindnnati. F.P. Santangelo had Shortstop Derek Jeter and the New York Yankees used a strong pitch­
lie also s1tid he believes that
rnrruiling process again with an infield single and Barry ing performance to earn a 4-0 victory over the Oakland Athletics. 
Notre Dame has its unique
thn likns of" Florida State, Bonds followed with a single to the Reds ninth with a home run. pitched Wednesday -but it was 
aspects as well.
Ttixas A&M and Utah in the right field off reliever Dennys Russ Ortiz (1-0) allowed three only the ninth inning, in relief of
"My goal is to get the top
picturn. Reyes. Dmitri Young's high hits and two runs over seven a dominant Ramiro Mendoza. 
players in the country. I've
Dohnrty is familiar with return throw to the infield got innings. Mark Lewis singled Mendoza pitched eight shutout
been fortunate to have a good
Slocum. having coaclrnd him at loose, allowing Santangelo to home a run in the second and innings, giving up five hits and
product lo sell with Roy
a summPr camp in Lawrence, score the tiebreaking run on an Greg Vaughn, who hit 50 not allowing a runner to reach
Williams and the Universitv of
Kan .. thnw years ago. lie is error. homers for San Diego last sea­second base, as the New York
Kansas." said Doherty. "I think
su11posml to meot with Slocum Danny Graves then walked son, got his first for the Reds Yankees defeated the Athletics
Notrn Dame spnaks for itself
on Friday. Stnvn Slocum, the Kent and gave up a two-run leading olT the sixth. 4-0.
and it gels in a lot ol' doors
play,ir's l'atlwr, [()Id the South double to Charlie Hayes, who Vaughn had only an infield Irabu originally was SUJ)posed
throughout the country."
Bm1d Trih111w that, "Ile !Andy! won the opener for San single in 11 at-bats before the to start, but infuriatnd Francisco with a three-run homer. The Heds have opened Steinbrenner by not covering homer in the eighth. Hich Aurilia with three straight home losses first base in a spring training singled home another run and for the first time since 1979, game last week. The owner Scott Sullivan's errant pickoff when the Giants took the first called lrabu a "fat ... toad" and
Please recycle 
throw -Cincinnati's second three in a four-game series. ordered him left behind when error of the inning -made it 7-San Francisco scored the sec­the tnam broke camp. 2 as the Giants sent 11 batters to ond-highest run total in fran­Interim manager Don Zimmer the plate in the inning. Bonds chise history last season and was selected Mendoza instead of
The Observer. 
added an l{81 double in the third in the National League lrabu for the start, and stuck to 
ninth. Eddie Taubensee opened with a .274 team average. The that decision even though Giants' o!Tense got rolling in the Stei.nbrnnner announced on three-game series, scoring 26 on Saturday that he hoped Irabu 33 hits with live homers. would pitch -leading to a brinf
A.pple Student Represenlali~e 
The Reds helped them out by cross-country tiff between walking 23 batters -only two Steinbrnnner and Zimmer. intentionally -in the three lrabu eventually got his
ff'anted al N.D. 
games. In all three games, chance, pitching a perfect ninth. Cincinnati's bullpen gave up the The first two outs came on hit that decided it. grounders to the right side of tM infield, and lrabu broke toward Yankees 4, Athletics 0 first base each time, but was not needed to make the J)lay. Tim
Job Canidate-Apple Evangalist, prefarably 
Just as George Steinbrenner final out came on fly ball to the had wanted, 1-Iideki Irabu warning track in right field. 

a sophomore/junior student with good technical knowledge, including Apple and 3rd party applicati~ns. A self-starter, completely dedicated to learning everything there is to know about Apple products. MultiMedia and WEB creation abilities are a plus. 

Please send resume to: 
Jack McLaughlin 55 Chestnut Ave. Clarendon, IL 60514 

Fax: 630-325-0885 
Email: jackm@apple.com 
College ofScience Student Council Presents the Distinguished Scholar lecture Series 
"How Bees Find Their Virtual Honey" 
Prof. Harald E. Esch Departmenl ofBiological Sciences 

Thursday, April 8, 1999 
8:00 pm 141 DeBartolo Hall 
Refreshments /mmediate(v Following 
page 18 
The Observer• SPORTS 
¦ SOFTBALL 
Irish split doubleheader with Broncos 
By MA17' OLIVA 
Spom Writet 
The Notre Dame softball team got back on the non-conference track yesterday, splitting a doubleheader against Western Michigan. The team dropped their first game 2-1 before coming back to shutout the Broncos for u 5-0 victory. The defeat was the first home loss for the Irish this sea­son, as they moved their overall record to 23-15. 
Freshman Michelle Mosclwl (5­
2) was credited with the loss in game one for the Irish. Western Michigan scored two runs on nine hits. while stopping the Irish bats. Notre Dame had only five hits in the game, and their lone run was on a homer by catcher Kris McCleary. It was McCleary's 6th of the season, ancl the seventeenth for the Irish this year, tying the rncord set in 1994. 
With the score tied 1-1 after six innings, the Broncos scored the winning run in the top of the sev­enth on a sacrifice Dy by Bonnie Yenks. Western Michigan pitcher Jennifer Vanover held the Irish scoreless in the bottom half of the inning to preserve the victory and record her fourth win of the sea­son. 
In the second game, the Irish benefited from a solid pitching performance from Angela Bessolo, who fired a complete-game shutout to defeat Notre Dame head coach Liz Miller's alma mater. The shutout was Bessolo's fourth of the year and she improved her record to 7-5 on the 
season. 
"The first game was a tough loss," said Bessolo. "We came out lighter in the second game and had a positive attitude. We didn't want to focus on the negatives from the first game and we came out fired up." 
Notre Dame jumped out in front by scoring two runs in the second inning. They addt>d one more in each of the next three innings to take a commanding lead and, eventually, the 5"0 victory. 
"We just wanted to play one inning at a time and look at it from that approach," said Bessolo. "Our hitting in the second game was excellent and it was comforting as a pitcher to get ahead quickly. Our defense played really well and that helped me to conccnlrate on the mound." 
The IrLc,h now travel to Rutgers anrl Villanova for their next four Big East games. They will take on Rutgers in a doubleheader on Saturday. A two­game sweep on Saturday would give Liz Miller her 800th career victory, after winning number 798 last night. The Irish are 2-0 so fur in conference play. 


Thursday, April 8, 1999 
A A April a April 17 v. Boston College April 18 v. DePaul 

• 
Dorn us Properties has two, five, six and nine bedroom student housing available 

• 
Student neighborhoods close to campus 

• 
Security systems provided 

• 
Well maintained homes 

• 
Maintenance staff on call 


Available for the 1999/2000 school year 
Contact Kramer (219) 276-7020 or (219) 674-2571 or (219) 233-4509 

. ' j, 
Itallan/Si~ ~ttoria 
OfcJ ~Yi~ 
Dtal Phone II.SJ674-e900 C&U:pry 8466 for more lllfo. DoWlttoWD Soeth Bend 
23/S S, Michl.... St. 
23'.M0OO 
Re""•tlorul N!commended 
BOOK SEARCH 
• 
Used, rare and out-of-print books 

• 
Initial cost of $2..00 c Nationafiy -circulated ad 

• 
Success rate of 50% 

• 
Time Required: 2 months 


ERASMUS BOOKS 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232-8444 
Homes for Rent 

Thursday April 8, 1999 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
¦ PROFESSIONAL GOLF ASSOCIATION 
Woods, Duval share spotlight on eve of Masters 

Associated Press I should play in that group. But 
the only to do that is to win 
AUGUSTA. Ga. again. If I win the Masters, you 
The sun broke through ovcr­guys will want to write about cast skies Wednesday at me." Augusta National as Ernie Els Or maybe someone else. slippnd quietly into the shade of Under the live oak tree locat­a Georgia pine. ed between the clubhouse and 
He couldn't imagine a better the first tee, Phil Mickelson held placn to be on the eve of the court f'or 10 minutes after ho Ci:{rd Masters. When the curtain and .John Huston teamnd up to rises on the Orst major champi­whip Duval and .John Daly in onship of the year, the spotlight their final practice round will be on David Duval and before the tournament starts. Tiger Woods. and the script has In only hi~ seventh year on alrnady bmm written -the top the PGA Tour, Mickelson two players in the world, set­already is becoming a forgotten tling mattnrs in the most spec­favorite in the majors. in part tacular venue in golf. because he hasn't really con­
That's just line with Els. tended in any of the last night. 
The 29-ynar-old South This is the first time Mickelson African arrived at Augusta on has come to the Masters with­Saturday with a frnsh mind, a out already having won in tho tine-tuned game and the kind of year, and that includes his lone credentials worthy of a favorite appearance as an amateur. at any major championship. It doesn't help that he is 
.Just not this one, not this 165th on the tour in final-round year. scoring at 75.29, which 
"The only talk is Tiger and includes an 82 on Sunday in David," Els said. "I could ask The Players Championship after myself the question that maybe being within one stroke of the 
lead. 
~CUT HERE AND HANO ON DOORKNOB 
' 
,.." 
,~ 
/ , 
,' 
! 
I 
i
.
I
. 
\ 
\ 
\,' 
......
..........._______.,.,,,,. who tied for second last year with Duval, wants 
Dear _____ the grouch, 
another crack at a green 
jacket but no one seems 
to listen. 
There's something you should know. In 
Justin Leonard, whose 
the morning, you are unbelievably grumpy. 
four victories include the British Open and The Players Championship, 
And that's putting it very, very nicely. 
So, because Ilike you, may I suggest you 
has finished in the top 
start the day with a CROISSAN'WICH" from 
10 the last two Masters. Jim Furyk and his loopy swing don't look like a 
BURGER KING'. It's filled with mouthwatering 
sausage, egg and cheese. And that should 
good fit for Augusta, but make anyone less cranky. Even you. If it doesn't, he was right in the thick 
then we're on to Plan B. And you don't want of it last year until going in the water on the 15th
to know Plan B. 
on Sunday. Lee Westwood of 
Sincerely, ______ 
England has won as many tournaments as 

Duval in the same amount of time, even if only one came on American soil. Still, Europeans have won 10 
Still, Mickelson has won 13 times already. Like Els, he is lurking. 
''I've been trying to build up for this week," he said. "What I've been lacking this year is focus 
___ -r·•--------••------------­
for 72 holes. I've played well for 54 holes in sev­
I 
eral tournaments, and I
I 
_____ .i.......... 
feel like I'm just about 
....... 
..., 
ready to play well for
' 
72."
\ \ 
Mark O'Meara spent
\ 
. I i' 
more time talking about Woods and Duval than 
I 
his own chances to
! 
become only the third
/
,, 
player to repeat as 
.,", 
champion. Fred Couples, of the past 19 Masters, and he has been around Augusta enough to know how to attack. 
"Tiger and David may ho the best two at the moment, but I'm not too far behind," he ~aid. 
This is the largest field in tlrn MastBrs in 33 years. even ii' it snunds like the gronn jacknt will be filled for on,~ of two players -Woods or Duval. 
"Everyone badly wants to win," Els said. "I want to win this tournament. I've had good preparations. and I'vo got a good feeling." 
II' anyone can spoil the Duval­Woods showdown, it's Els. 
With two U.S. Opens. lrn has won morn majors than Woods and Duval combined. lle1 also has morn victories than both of them -29 around 'the world. 
Woods has won 10 times, including the 1997 Masters and two tournaments overseas. All of Duval's 11 victories have come on the PGA Tour. includ­ing four already this year and all of them in the past 18 months. 
All that is missing is the major. 
"All those guys think they can, and David Duval is one that thinks that -and is doing that," Couples said. "He's a lot better than a lot of people, and he's a little better than Ernie Els and Tiger Woods and Greg Norman." 
Perhaps the magic of the Masters will allow for Duval and Woods to match shot for shot on the back nine of Augusta. They have never been paired together in a final round, and they have rarely been in contention during the final nine holes of any tourna­ment. 
One of the exceptions was two months ago in Los Angeles, where Els dusted off both of them. The victory made the South African known as the "Big Easy" the first player since .lack Nicklaus to win at least once in his first six years on the PGA Tour. 
Does that sound like someone who can be left out of the mix in the Masters"? 
The fact this has turned into David vs. Goliath (David is the betting favorite again) has not caused any bitterness among those eager to prove the Masters has much more to offer. 
\'David has brought this on himself'," Els said with a laugh. "We talk about him lrncausn lw's winning every week. The guy has been blowing 1wery­body out of tho water. I'd like lo know what's going 011 his hC'ad." 
-
¦ SPORTS BRIEFS 
Casting and Angling -Clinic will be offored on April 13 and 20 from 6-7:15 p.m. in the Joyce Center and Campus Lakes. There is an $8 class fee. Registtir in advance at RecSports. Join Dan Bucha, certified American Casting
THE DELICIOUS CROISSAN'WICH.® 
Association instructor. for three evenings of bait casting, fly-casting, spinning and fishing. Equipment will be pro­
RIGHT NOW JUST 99¢. 
vided but bring personal equipment if possible. Contact RecSports at 631-6100 for more information. 
The Huddle -LaFortune Student Center 
Kayaking -Register at HecSp()rts for four pool sessions and a one-day excursion. Cla..<1ses will bo held April 12. 15, 19, 22 at Rolfs Aquatic Center, from 7 to 10 p.m. Class
BURGER 
size is limited. The cost is $15. Hegistration begins March 
KING 
30 at 8 a.m. Any more questions should bn diroctPd to the RecSports oflice at 631-6100.
It just tastes better: 
Christmas in April Benefit Hun will be held on Saturday. April 10 at 11 a.m. Meet at the Stepan Center
-•------------------------------------------------A 
for a 5K or 10K run or two-mile walk. T-shirts go to all finishers. Cost is $6 in advance or $7 the day of the race. Register at RecSports. All proceeds to bmrnfit Christmas in April. 
Golf Scramble -Stanford Hall Y-111 be hosting its sec­ond annual Golf Scramble on April 25. The cost will be ww. burgerking .com 
$40 per team. Prizes will be awarded to the winning LIMITED TIME ONLY. PRICE ANO PARTICIPATION MAY VARY. DURING BREAKFAST HOURS ONLY. 
team. If you have any questions please call Gene at 634­
0191111 llURGEII K1Ni COOPOAAOON BUIIJER Klf«i OOIU'OAATION IS THE 00.USM LICENSEE OF TliE "IT JLJSTTA.STES BETTER'' TlWJEMAAK ANO TH£ REGISTERED BU11GER KING, CROISSANWICH ANO llJN HAil/E'S LOGO IRA!lfMARKS. 
2047.for more information. 
page 20 The Observer. PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, April 8, 1999 
Freshman flat,e 
Friday-Saturday, .. Aprf St. Joe"l+iall 
Targeted Dorm,$(1' 
PhlJlips/f Keough;;'~f( PasqurU4a Ea$vf:'it 
"What''s the·f!'l'l, Relationshi~2'; .. 
Sunday.rApriJ{ Hospitality HQ ·An Opportunit}r t and questions:'f significant relati 
~ 
f 
The Congr 
joyfully ce 
Ordinatio of:Christ and Mic· 
Arece 
Dinin 
ReJo 
Sul' 
Sori[ 
Cete 
Sacram 
Monday, April 12,7:30 p.m. Basilica of theSacred,.Heiart,) Join us for the celebration .of.. tne :r:t sacrament.ofconfirmation wnere101 members ofthe Notre Damecommu:, nity wilr completetheir,fu!Jjnltiati.Qh"'. into the Catholic Church. Bishop John D'Arcy pre§idim1. · ; ,~, 

Keeping the Ec:tti~H .. . . . . .. A C.onvetsiorlof: ;[aitP aaij;~~~ Saturday,Api"i! i;Q.;i,$•pf" Recker's•··s9utl1 l;>inlng' . Coffeehouse featoring :lus' 
Danielle ·SkOriehahdrila
-
. '._· ,---_·_..· --_ ··. __ -_=:}'4·
Faith Feud: we as:Keo:t • 
you gave_._th~,,:e.~..~,rs:ii,;: 
whatthe.su 
: :Wi:'i:f'.\/i:" 
Tuesday····,._._..:AprH.·....· ... ... -...i~.f,.,fJlr':•·:':>.·/·c=J
· , .._..,f 
t..aFortuhe·Ba11rOorfu:'ii•.to' authorot."Virtdal ~aftta'1t{ young adultspirit~aHtY~~'g shlp'to:·movi.~s,>'.rri'uslc, '~r(~·· 
·0~i:= -,:/;;,;'.i'·:·:,?~'.$:\:,:-· ·::-J;,}<..·' :.};.::,:~;,. .,,J~:':­
Wednesday, 'jp~f:*41w·r,w ·· Ballroom. Dav}Q' Siijger,.;:son~ 
stor~~.:uer/ 
.,,,an-d .IDamieH 
Zahm's Gay! Jim Lies, C.S.C. 
I wish I could tell you how many nights I've been awakened or kept awake by cheers and jeers of "Zahm's Gay!" or worse. It's a chant heard outside of Zahm Hall all too often. It doesn't take a rocket scientist to realize that those who yell it are not seriously accusing us of being a residence hall entirely peopled by gay men; nor would it seem that they are accusing us of being light-hearted, or lively, which might capture an earlier incarnation of the word. So why do they choose to use the term "gay" to offend the men of Zahm? Why is the self-designation of legitimate and full members of our community hurled as a derogatory and derisive insult? It's a matter worth examining not only by the throngs who have proclaimed it outside of Zahm Hall on random weekend nights, but by all of us, especially those among us, whether in the midst of that throng or not, who don't even hear it for the insult and the hurt that it engenders; and not so much on the men of Zahm Hall, but on those in this community, Zahm and elsewhere, who are gay. Because the reality is that many more people than we know are dealing with issues of sexual orientation and of self-accep­tance. 
Attempting to address this issue here is fraught with hazards. For starters, defend­ing Zahm Hall is not a position generally well received on this campus. But this is not truly about Zahm Hall; they cm take care of themselves. It's actually about heighten­ing awareness of the rights and dignity of the lesbian and gay members of this commu­nity. The hazards in addressing this issue in any public forum are rooted in the fact that many members of this community have such divergent and strident views on the issue. Extreme positions will relegate anything that I have to say here to the trash bin, because I will be either too weak in my condemnation, or, for others, too strident in my defense. The only side I wish to take on the matter is the one which compels us all to live the message of Jesus Christ. Can we be reminded too often that the second of the Great Commandments demands that we love our neighbor as ourselves? The matter before us is simply this: that the quality and character of this community is somehow inti­mately tied to how well we address this issue, and how welcoming we are of our les­bian and gay sisters and brothers. 
It should be clear by now, to any educated person, that the Catholic Church teaches that homosexual orientation in a person is neither sinful nor evil. The distinction is made between homosexuality as an orientation and sexual activity between homosexu­al persons; and that homosexual persons are called to live chaste lives, as are we all according to our state in life. Whatever one may think of the Church's teaching on this matter, one thing is clear: there is no room in it for hatred and derision directed toward our gay and lesbian brothers and sisters. Nor ought there be room for it here at Notre Dame; and yet there seems to be. How many times have you walked down a men's res­idence hall corridor only to hear someone yell to another, "faggot!", or denigrate some­thing with "that's gay!" It reveals a latent acceptance of the presumption that there is something wrong with being a gay or lesbian person. Even the chant "Zahm's Gay!" begs the question, "Why should that be offensive?" How do we find humor in the den­igration of any person or group of persons within our community? Why do we use the self-designation of any group as a derogatory term? As for Zahm Hall, of course we're not all gay. Even those who would cheer it, please God, know that much. But the fact is, some of our number are; and the even sadder fact is that some of those who are cast­ing scorn with their cheers of "Zahm's Gay!" are gay themselves. They're forced to join in because they're not strong enough to stand alone against it, and nobody else, gay or straight is brave enough to stand with them in opposition to it. 
We live in an environment that is embarrassingly inattentive to the reality that there are many among us who are dealing with issues of sexual orientation. That inattentive­ness has created a place that is unsafe for those who might otherwise share with friends and family their growing self-awareness and self-acceptance. As a Catholic community, we are called to a higher standard of respect for human dignity, and of justice, than that which is revealed in our careless use of language around this issue, or in our inappro­priate humor, or even in every conversation we have that assumes that everyone in our community is straight. I fear that we at Notre Dame are no better on the issue, and per­haps worse, than society at large when we don't even realize how offensive we are, and how damaging are our words and our actions. As a Catholic university, and as individ­ual Christians, we are called to more. 
The Office of Campus Ministry hopes to further a deeper respect for and apprecia­tion of the presence and gifts of the lesbian and gay members of this community. We recognize the importance of respectful and safe dialogue on the issue as the key to maturing as individuals and as a community. On April 16-17, 1999, Campus Ministry is offering the Third Armual Lesbian/Gay/Bisexual (LGB) Retreat for anyone, gay or straight, who wishes to enter into prayerful and respectful support and dialogue about this issue. [For more information about the retreat, call Tami (1-3016), Alyssa (4-1277), or Matt (4-3668).J Our hope, ultimately, is to promote a campus environment that wel­comes and supports all members, regardless of color, gender, religion, ethnicity, social or economic class, nationality, or sexual orientation, among others. The social teachings of the Catholic Church, which promote a society founded on justice and love, in which all persons possess inherent dignity as the children of God, demands it of us. 
l¦I 
(Z\MPUSMINISTRY 
Thursday, April 8, 1999 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
¦ IRISH INSIGHT 
Baseball to become global pastime 
By JOI IN COJ>POLELLA 
Sporrs C:oiumnist 
The basnball season oflicially b1igan on Sunday wlrnn tlw San lliogo l'aclros met I.he Colorado llorki(•s, bLll lhis game was a bil cliffon•nl than most oiwmirs. 
Amnrica's national pastime opc1wd for tlw lirst Linw nver in a forl'ign (:ountrv, with 27,104 fans packing Fsti1dio Montnrrny in Mo11Wrr<'y, M<!Xh:o. lo witness an 8-2 Hoc·.kic\S win and a piecn of' history. 
This gauw was a sign of how fast thi11gs an• changing in has<'­ha 11. Tlw numlHlr of' 11011­Anll'rican play,irs in profossional hasl'l,all is slowly lrngi11ni11g Lo ou1.1111mlwr Llw /\1111•rirnn play­Prs in tll<' sport. 
Major lc-agun !Jas<'lmll tc·.u11s an• now lwginning to scrimmage till' 11atio11al l1•ams or otlwr rountrit!S. N1!arly cvPry major l1•agtw tt>am Ii as mowd, or will Im m<wing SCHIil, into a new ball­park. ;\ :H-y1'.,LJ"-olcl pildwr who has llPVPr won a Cy Young ,\ward and only won 20 ganws in a s1,aso11 CllH'.I'. is making $ I;"j million p<'r ynar. /\nd major IPagiH' hasPball is 1ww 1·onsidPr­ing putting advcirtisnnwnts on its play1•rs' j1~rst•ys. 
Is this what is 111Panl by a "11pw Pra'!" YPs and no. · 
Bas,•lrnll is growing, primarily in otlwr nations. and growth is a big posiliw whic:h rnnws with a lot or littl,~ nngativl's: billion-dol­lar ballparks. $ I:i-million-pnr­yPar play<'rs and advPrlising on 
jPl'Sl'YS­
l)o 1.lw nngaliws outw,dgh tlw positiv1•s'! It is impossib!P lo say at this point. 
What can lw said al this point is that Sunday's game\ was a big posilivt• slnp. 'l'rlll~. llw l'mlrns playr•cl a snrins in Monwrrey in IIJ'Jliand in llonolulu in ]IJ<J7. 
Ilmwvnr. tlm nwssagl' Sl'nl hy llw opening gamn of llw base­ball snason being played in a forp ign !'ountry was f"Plt by all whn were present, players includnd. 
Thn Padrns· Tony Gwynn, who said the team's op1mer should have been played in San Diego told roportors: "I understand hastiball going global. I under­stand planting the flag in new placns, but our llag's already planlnd here." 
lndPPd, basPball is going gloh­al. I predict that the next expan­sion basnball makes will be into Mexico or somPwhere in tlrn Caribbean. It rnakns loo much sense for il nol to happen. 
Basl'.ball will nxpand into these counlries for many reasons. It is players from lhnso countries who am playing thPir way into the major leagues, fans f'rom lhnsn countrios who earn moro about basnball than any other sport (including soccnr), and innovators in Major League Basdrnll who S(ink to rmlelirw baseball not as Uw Amm·ican pastinm. hut as tho intnrnational paslinrn. 
\-Voulcl this expansion work'' Ilistory says no. 
Baseball's roots in Canada arc not V!'ry strong. Tim Montreal Expos arc vnry close to moving south or the hordcr to tlw Virginia/Washington DC area and tlw Toronto Blun Jays have lost as much monoy as any base­ball !Imm this dncade -despite their success in tlw playoffs and tlw World Snries. 
Canada, howtwer, is an isolat­ed incidl'nL 
Tlw country is still, and likely l'ornver will be, dominated by hockey. Baseball has taken a back snat in tnrms of' youth par­ticipation, country support and. most importantly of all, fan intPrnst lwhich is a nuphemisrn l'or tehwision ratings and rnv­<m uns). 
Outsid!! of the Hockies' Larry Walker, no Canadian players havn achieved pr()minencc in baseball. 
The exact opposite is tnm of Mexico and tho Caribbean. These countries are captivated by baseball, where children and adullc, trnat the game like a reli­gion. 
Winter hall, a place where major league players and hope­fuls are sent in the off-season to hone their skills, has seen tremendous success and popu­larity in the Mexican League and the Dominican League. Juan Gonzalez, lasl year's American L1rngue MVP, hails from Puerto Hico, and Sammy Sosa. last year's National League MVP, hails l'rom the Dominican Hnpublic, 
Imagine an atmosphere where Sosa and the C:hicago Cubs would travel to the Dominican Hnpublic for a thrne-gamo series against a Major League Baseball ex1mnsio11 team awarded to that country. It would bl\ a three-day Supor Bowl for the country and the opportunity of' a lifetime for each and every baseball execu­tive. 
That atmospherl' wnulrl Im similar to the exhibition between t.hc Baltimore Orioles and the Cuban national team, which took place in Havana a week bnforn the Hockins-Padres game. The game was a beauty: a 3-2 win for the Orioles in 1t innings, exciting from the first pitch to the last. 
More importantly, the game was about baseball. The sport transcended all of' the political protesl'i and motives, the uncer­tainty and the fighting. 
Fidnl Castro stood in silence as a Cuban public address system crooned America's national anthem. Oriole players sho()k hands with Castro, and Cuban players shook hands with Commissioner Bud Selig. For one day two countries that had been so polarized against one another by their pasts were uni­fied by one pastime. 
Perhaps one day the "World Series" will live up to its name. 


Limited Time 
6.9%APROn balance transfers 
Transfer those high-balance credit cards to your Notre Dame Federal Credit Union VISA or MasterCard and save. 
~NOTRE DAME www.ndfcu.org 
.-.FEDERAL CREDIT UNION (2 I 9) 239-6611 or (800) 522-6611 I-or People. Not I or l'rofiL 
• 1111, ,pcc,al raie .ipplic, for th,· first r, months on halance transfers nnly. Rate w,11 then rcvrrt had lo 14.9~11u It ilrn:~ 1101 inch1tle cxi-.tmg hal.mccs nn anv Notn.! Dame F~dcrnl ('rc<lll \1111un Ma,tcrt.·ar.1 or VIS/\. Pro111111inn rnlid January X, 1hrough March .11. 1999. 

¦ WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Special to the Observer 
Ruth Riley, a third-team Associated Press All-America pick and an unanimous first­team all-Big East team seloc­Wm. became the first Notre Dame women's basketball play­er to finish first in an NCAA statistical category. In the final NCAA statistics released on April 6. Riley's now singlo-soa­son field goal percentage mark of 68.3 percent topped the nation in tha.l. category. 
Riley, who also finished third nationally in blocked shots (3.3 per game). hit 198 of her 290 field goal attempts during the season. Her 68.3 percent eclipsed the mark of 63.9 per­cent set by Sandy Botham dur­ing the 1985-96 campaign. 
Two other Irish players were among the national .leaders as Sheila McMillen finished fourth in three-point field goals made (3.2 per ganrn) and eighth in free throw percentage (87.1 percent) while junior Niele Ivey finished in tho top 15 in three statistical categories. She fin­ished eighth in three-point field goal percenl.age (44.8 percent), tied for ninth In free throw per­centage (87.0 percent) and was 13th in assists (6.5 per game). 
A<;; a team, the Irish finished in the top 20 nationally in eight categories (the most for any Notre Dame team). as they were fourth in rnbounding margin (+9.8 per game), ninth in scoring offense (81.0 ppg) and scoring margin (+15.5 ppg), 10th in won-lost percent­age (83.9 percent), 13th in three-point field goal percent­ago (37.2 percent), 17th in free throw percentage (73.7 per­cent), 18th in field goal per­centage (46.6 percent). and 20th in field goal percentage defense (37.7 percent). · 
.. 
-
... 
" 

-
t 
I 
I 
! 
I 
-
page 22 
The Observer• SPORTS Thursday, April 8, 1999 
fun, but we think we might tournament are playPd to 21 have a shot," said Anne baskets, with a winning mar­
Bookstore 
Jaeger. captain of The Worst gin of two points. Team ... EVER. "We played There will be no rcforePs
continued from page 24 
last year and lost 21-2 but until the fourth round, so 
Guy Who's Never Scored. "We we're hoping to win this time_" players will call their own don't really plan on winning a All Bookstore Basketball fouls in the early rounds. single game." games this year will be played Team lists and schedulns for 
Others plan on winning at on the Stepan, McGlinn and the tournament are available least one round. Lyons courts. All games in the at the Lafortune information "Our team is just playing for five-on-five single-elimination desk. 

Pangboth Ho.tl Presents... 
1he Pfice Is Risht 
WIN GREAT PRIZES! ATV, STEREO, CORDLESS PHONE. GlFT CERTIFICATES. ANV MANY MOR£! 
PLAY PLINKO THE GOLF GAME, PUNCH oun SPIN THE BIG WHEEU 
Satutdo.y, Aph( 10 Libto.ty Audifotium g:oo PM Chances: If'» ot 2/SS' 
All proAfs will beneA+ +he Grace Commun;fy Cenfer 

• 
ARE YOU TIRED OF LIVING LIKE THIS? 

Everything about school doesn't need to remind you of 
being crammed together like sardines. 
STRETCH OUT 
Williainsburg 

__. o~­
Our Floorplans are spacious, with the privacy and solitude that dorm life can't offer. Only minutes from campus, you'll feel light years away when you leave the stress of exams and studying behind. 
Call today about our Priority Waiting List Program to reserve your apartment for fall. Don't wait and be left out in the cold! 
Williamsburg

.--~"7Jlr11ii~e-~ @ 
EGUAL HOUSING
256-0237 
OPPORTUNITY 
Baseball 
continued from page 24 
legitimate chance to win. 
Starter Mike Naumann lasted only two and one-thirds innings. as the Falcons tagged him for eight runs -seven earned ­on seven hits to take the early lead. McKeown came on in relief in the third and lasted four and two-thirds innings. The lefty allowAd just one run on four hits, fanning five and walking one. 
"I thought Chris McKeown came in and did a tremendous job," Mainicri said. "He's strug­gled his last two times out, so that was a nial confidence­booster for him." 
Corbin pitched the last two innings for Notre Dame, giving up one run while striking out three. 
"Corbin has just been the man out of the bullpen for us," Mainieri said. 
So yet again the Irish notched another game in the win col­umn thanks to the likely and unlikely heroes, and a little luck too. 
"I don't know how we keep doing it," Wagner said. "One of these days the luck's going to run out, but hopofully not too soon." 

argestand mos po . of· rich literature, . fasc natural beauty and jnternati ortunities 
'· ,-;;,t.· ' 
.: .... , 
Learn fast: Intensive cours Fulfill the langua 
~ntact: Department o 
MAS1:ER 
YOUR CAREER 
DESTINY! 

COME TO THE SELF-ASSESSMENT WORKSHOP! 
Four part workshop -Attendance to aIUutro_ngb' encouraged Limited space -Sign up in advance at Career and Placement Services (1-5200) 
When: Thursday, March 18, 4:00 -5:15 p.m. Where: DeBartolo Hall -Room 213 
When: Thursday, March 25, 4:00 -5:15 p.m. -Wednesday, March 31, 4:00-5:15 p.m. ThUJsday, April 8, 4:00-5:15 p.m. Where: DeBartolo Hall -Room 116 
Presented by Olivia Williams, Assistant Director 
Career and Placement Services 
Thursday, April 8, 1999 The Observer• TODAY page 23 
SLURRED SPEECH DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 

RILi AMEND 
l'Oll WANTED PETER, To SEE ll-!AT WAS MR<;. 
ME? HuMBAR&ER \ ON lliE PHONE. 
_..,__\.~Ju 
\~ 
DILBERT 
1 NEVER TOLO l"\'1' LA5i e,Q"(!=RtE.ND 
SHE SAID SHE SAW You DRIVING OUR STATION 
WAGoN DOWN HER STREET TODAl Lll<E A RVNAWAY M1SS1LE. 
\_~ 
W14AT fl... OE$PiCABL£. C~H.P HE. WA~. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Chest display 
6 and Span 10 Taken 13Out 14"-Rebel" 
(1962 #1 hit) 15 GI ittery material 16 Mysterious 
"Ivanhoe" character, with "the" 
18 Actress Merkel and others 19 German article 20 Years on end 21 Dissolved substance 23 Eventual period 25 Polo period 26 Suffix with hip or quip 
27 Striped 
antelopes 30 Self: Prefix 31 Ninny 33 Choice reading? 34 Stats for Sosa: 
Abbr. 35 Jar 37 Lunched 38 "Friends" role 40 "Rescue 911" 
action 41 Division word 43 Goddess: Lat. 44 "It must be him. 
-~-shall die" 45 Knock down 47 Call at camp 51 Work on cud, 
say 53 "Satanic Verses" author 55 "P.T.L. Club" couple, once 
1' 
0 
' 
56 Faction 57 Easy chair site 58 Seat of Jackson 
County, Tex. 59 Figureheads? 62 Angry, with "off" 63 Arkie neighbor 64 Third-largest city 
in Puerto Rico 65 Number after 
due 66 North Sea feeder 67 Factions 
DOWN 
1 Cabaret sing er Mercer et al. 
2 Cass -of the Mamas and the Papas 
3 Sen. Feinstein 4 Epitome of 
simplicity 5Hooch &Climb (up) 7 Good baseball 
throws e Somewhat: Suffix 9 Hospital image 
1o Jewish festivals 11 Dilettantes 12 Strands 
15 Corker 17 Everyday names 
~...-.• .:;:J.=~:+!-!:..jlll~+!:-~ 22 "Yeah, right" 
HOT 
24 1965 Pulitzer novelist Shirley LOP Ann-
C H 
f--"-+'-+'-'+'-1 20 •Are natl" K I comeback 0 S S 29 Jeans brand 
No WAY! 1MP0SS1BLE.'  '(OU KEEP  THE  
I SWEAR To You, MoM,  QUIET.'  ~Y'S,  
SHE COULDN'T HAVE.'  PETER.  

Puzzle by Jim Page 
32 Baseball Hall-of-Farner Duke 
35 Butter knife 36 Athlete's problem 37 Cash dispenser, for short 39 Curse 
40 Heavyweight champ of 1892-97 
42 Paper pusher? 
Make checks payable to: The Observer
The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester
Community. 
Name _______________________ 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have 
Address ____________________
found The Observer an indispensible link to the City ________State ____ Zip.______
two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
I 
SCOTT ADAMS 
WHY 001\l'T '(OU CALL 1-\tM lo.NO TE\.L 1-1 I I"\ 
\-\OW YOU FEEL'? 
I 1-1~\JE r:,... O~iE 

43 Difference between 19 and 21 
46 One on a long walk 
56 French silk 48 Calculator figure 60 Endorses 49 Drill through 61 Luau serving 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 
1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Julian Lennon, Betty Ford, Taran Noah Smith, Izzy Stradlm, John 
Gavin 
Happy Birthday: You desire to achieve success and have a strong will. You aren't likely to let anything stand in your way. The frustrations and limitations of the past arc lifting. You can move into fast-forward accomplishing all the projects that you've had trouble getting off the ground. It's time to put yourself first and mncentrate on your goals. Your numbers: ll, 17, 23, 30, 39, 45 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Emo­tions will flare up ii you've forgotten an important date. Travel will fall short of your expectations. You can tie up loose ends if you work diligently to meet your deadlines. 00 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Diffi­rulties with co-workers will cause set­backs or confrontations. Try not to get involved in the personal affairs of your colle~gues or employers. Argu­ments involving workloads are likely. 00000 
GEMINI (May 21-)une 20): You will do well if you take part in com­petitive activities. Your talent will be recot,,nized anJ appreciated. You will inspire confidence in others. You are likely to get some serious offers. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Emo­tional upset will cause minor health problems. Don't confront issues until you have the strength to cope with the outcome. You need some time to yourself. Changes will be necessary. 
000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 221: Self• improwment projects will pay off. You will be admired for the choices you made. Get out with friends. You can accomplish a lot if }'llU are willing lo work with others. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Money-making ventures will tum out to be quite lucrative. You can look into small business ventures or investments that will help you get ahead of the game. 00000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): You won't be that easy to get along with today. Kf.-ep this in mind when deal­ing with others, and it may eliminate some of the problems. Unreasonable behavior will result in isolation. 00 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't bother trying to get r,our point across to colleagues. You will do much better if you focus your attention on your­self. It's important to get back mto shape.0000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22•Dec, 21): You can have a good time without being overindulgent. You can put money into an investment you already have, but don't contribute to a joint venture that's not off the ground yet. 000 
CAPRICORN (D-,c. 22-Jan. 19): Don't expect everything to run smoothly if you are working in con­junction with others. You will lose respect for some of your peers if you have to put up with their poor work habits.000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Your interest in unusual subjects will intrigue your friends. Get involved in the conversatiof('ll,,,d let others know what your plans are. You may get some volunteers w,thoul even asking. 
000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You may be involved in organizations that have a negative side to them. Check into the background of some of the acquaintances you've made before you decide to make a large contribution. 0000 
Birthday Baby: You have drive, dctennination and the power of persuasion working on your side. You aren't likely to come up against too many who can match your competitive edge. You are strong and focused. You know what it is you want to accomplish. Compassion will be your lesson. 
¦ OF INTEREST 
Are Pro-Life Demonstrators Gangsters? A lecture by Professor Blakey and Sue Scheidler will be present­ed in the law school courtroom today at 4 p.m. The lec­ture Js·sponsored by Law School Right to Life. Refreshments will be served. 
wanted: Reporters and Photographers. Join The Observer staff. 
• 
• 
-.,. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
E  T -=+.:....:.+~-=-+'-'­ D  
G O  E  
o p  L  E T  
E R  s  
p  E  
I  c  F  o s  
I  R L  

1--'-+a-a-~~~~-,-:..:+=+-+=-liiiii.-5
..:..+:..:.E+A=-i 
" 
,------------~-----~-----------­

Leader of the Pack 
.. 
¦ The scacisrics are in, and sophomore center Ruth Riley finished first in the country in field 
goal percentage this season. 
PORTS 
p.21 
O 
THE 
Thursday, April 8, 1999 BSERVER 

¦ BASEBALL 
Eighth-inning rally propels Irish past Falcons 
B>· ALLISON KRILi.A 
Senior Spons Writer 
If slow and steady wins the race, then the Irish are definite­ly in the lead. 
The Notre Dame baseball team earned its tenth come­from-behind win this season with a 14-10 victorv over Rowling Green at Praiik Eck Stadium yesterday. 
... 
After the Falcons took a 9-1 lead midway through the third inning, the Irish (22-8} clawed their way back with two runs in each of the third, fourth and fifth innings before exploding for seven nms in the f'ighth. 
"Our players are rnally amaz­ing," head coach Paul Mainieri said. "There's just no quit in any of them. w,~·ve done this time and time again." 
This time the comeback win belnnged in large part to desig­nated hitter Jeff Wagner and shortstop Brant Ust. Wagner lit up the Bowling Green pitching staff, going yard in the fourth and eighth innings to raise his career home run total to 48. 
After missing much of the early spring with an injury, Wagner has drilled seven homers in 39 at-bats, while striking out only four times. Cst knocked in the winning run in Notre Dame's decisive seven­
¦ Mrn's BASKETBALL 
run eighth with a two-run single to center. The junior finished the day with three hits, three RBIs and Lhrce runs scored. 
But Mainieri isn't just talking about the tf'am's big guns. 
J--le's referring to the unsung heroes like foff Perconte and Matt Nussbaum. These are the players who will sacrifice their average to advance a runner and work the count just to unnerve a pitcher . 
"Jeff Perconte is playing so well," Mainieri said of his third baseman. "He's playing in the clutch for us, as is Alec Porzcl, and Ben Cook, who's really improvt"d. The obvious guys are Wagner and Ust, but you can't say enough about the Ben Cooks, Jeff Percontcs and Alf'c Porzels. They are so underrat• Pd, and just keep coming through in the clutch for us.,. 
Yesterday was Perconte's turn to shine again, as the junior drove his second dinger of the season over the wall in right· center in the sixth inning to pull the Irish within two. 
But while the Notre Dame offense clearly stole the spot­light, it was the standout per­formances on the mound by Chris McKeown and John Corbin that gave the team a 
see BASEBALL/ page 22 

The Observer/Liz Lang 
The Notre Dame baseball team used a seven-run eighth inning to shut down the Bowling Green Falcons, 14·10. With the victory, the Irish improve to 22·8 on the season. 
Doherty signs recruiting class 
By TIM CASEY Sports Writer 
Matt Doherty passed his first test as head Irish basketball coach yesterday. 
Both Matt Carroll and Mike Monserez, who signed letters of intent in November when John Macleod was still the coach, decided to honor their commit­ment and stick with the Irish. 
Carroll, a 6-foot-6 shooting guard from Pennsylvania, brings 
Boozer and LaVell Blanchard. He will compete next in the Capital Classic today at the MCI Center in Washington, D.C. 
For his career, Carroll recorded 2,667 points, placing him second all•time in Southeastern Pennsylvania his­tory behind current Los Angeles Laker All·Star Kobe Bryant. He chose the Irish over St. Joseph's, Penn State, Villanova and Wake Forest. 
numerous high school 
'HE'S A TOP-35 PLAYER IN THE
accolades to the Irish. The 1998 Pennsylvania COUNTRY IS A GREAT OUTSIDE 
have that blazing speed or ath­leticism but he has the poten­tial to play in the NBA if he develops and works hard." 
Although the less publicized of the two, Monserez brings an added dimension to the Irish backcourt. 
At 6-foot-5, Monserez will have a height advantage over most other point guards and also can spell relief at the two­guard when Carroll or Jimmy 
Dillon needs a rest. 
He verbally committed 
to the Irish in November 
of '97 as a junior and has 
grown up a Notre Dame 
Player of the Year SHOOTER AND AN ALL-AROUND GREAT basketball and football 
averaged 26.5 points, 
KID.'
7.3 rebounds and 4 assists a game as a senior at Hatboro­Horsham High School near Philadelphia. 
I le is ranked among the top 50 players in the nation, regardless of posi­tion, and has competed in All­Star tournaments throughout the country, including the Magic Johnson Roundball Classic in Auburn Hills, Mich., last Saturday. 
Carroll scored 19 points to go along with four assists and committAd no turnovers in that game, which featured the top prep players in the nation, including top 10 players DerMarr Johnson. Carlos 
fan. 
Monserez led Moeller CLARK FRANCIS High School in Cincinnati RECRUITING EXPERT to the Division I Ohio 
ON IRISH RECRUIT MATT CARROLL State title in late March 
A good possibility exists that Carroll will be a starter next year at shooting guard, replac­ing the void left by Antoni Wyche. 
Clark Francis, a recruiting expert, who runs HoopScoop based out of Louisville, Ken., had high praise for Carroll. 
"He's a great system-type player. He's a top-35 player in the country, is a great outside shooter and an all-around great kid," he said. "He doesn't 
over the ninth-ranked 
team in the nation. 
He was named MVP of the state tournament after scoring 13 points and grabbing 10 rebounds. Monscrez came through in the clutch for Moeller in the state title game, with two three pointers and an assist in the final three minutes to seal the 6 7-62 victory. 
For the season, the first team All-State selection averaged 
19.8 points, 7.0 assists and 5.0 rebounds. 
see RECRUITS/ page 17 
¦ 1Boo1sibREBASICETBAU. XXVI II 
Qteli'.min•ar·y·.... ·games +(otipoff today 


Bas ment is slat­
ed. to start a~ 4 p.m.. on the 
~tepaip'a,nd M-;,ijlinn <;:ourts. 
· "Tb'.e courts look good and 
we're ready to start," said 
se.nJo.1.''COIDifllssJoner .· JuHci
DD;y(bn. "E~eryone seem~ 
excited to begin the tourna~ 
melJ:t.". ·. < •. . .·. •···.•. _.
Rt1;G~J1t goQd weather has 
brought hordes of tourna-. 
menthopefuls to basketball 
Co~ . qseypampuey(Teams 
have. n honing their skills 
and $c:rimmaging others in 
orck~f;to Pftpare for tbfl 
-0penit,groundirof the tourna-, 
ment , .·.. The. preHJni11ary round of 
:. ,,: 
wat..... tiL,§aturday be for~ 
beginning to square off with opppnents, Prhnetime,.key­ipl · m ~.~d. Malicious 
P · ution are the tourna­
ment favorites at the top 
thr(:l~_f~pots, but witha field 9f 
581 t¢ams. undiscovered ·tal• 
ent could be waiting to stage 
an upset. 
The bookstore commission 
created the brackets for this 
year's competitio11 using a 
specific system. 
"We separated the top 32 
teams, putting them at the 
top . and bottom of each 
brac'.ket," said Dayton. "We 
made provisions for teams 
that wanted to play each 
other in the first round and 
after that used a random 
number generator to deter­
mine the rest of the matcb­
ups) 
Some teams are taking the 
tournament seriously, plan­
vs. Georgetown, vs. Michigan, Baseball
i::1
Sacurday, 1 p.m. April 14, 3 p.m. vs. Pittsburgh,
SPORTS 
Saturday, 12 p.m. 
ATA 
• 
Softball 
vs. Davidson, vs. BYU, 
at Alma College,
Tomorrow, 4 p.m. ~ Tomorrow, 3:30 p.m. f!i 
Saturday, 1 p.m.
GLANCE 







