New exhibit comes to the Snite 
Tragedy in Russia 
Preoiew the Snile's new arl ofthe 
An explosion ripped through a Mosco arcade 
Wednesday
Southwest exhibit, "Taos Artists and Their 
late Tuesday, injuring at least 30 people. 
Patrons: 1 898-1950. " 
page 5 
SEPTEMBER 1, 
page 10-11 
1999 
THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXXIII NO. 7 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU SECURITY 



Police charge Morrissey intruder with felony theft 
l.ak11, policn rt'JHH't«'cl. St•co1Hls "Safety on r:ampus is slepl. II u rl ny rnco m nrnn dcd dnnt Hichard Kl111i agrnod stu­By JOSI I UA noURGEOIS lat.Pr. an ol'lker ri>spotHling to students lock doors wlrnn not donts aro vu lirnrabln to tlrnft.
pretty good, bul lhe quick

\:rw, Wril'l.·1 tlw r:all saw a v1•hiclc liiavn in their rooms. "I think a lot of guys ari>
thief is hard lo.find.

tlw 11-(, parking l01 with a starting to lock th11ir doors
Preventative measures
:\ \\'!'Pk CJI' Uwf'ls in i\1CJnissny pass1•11gnr that matclwd tlw Sludenl.c; are very trust­more of'tt\ll," Kinn said. "lbutl I
"In the pasl, wht\JHivnr ther11
llall c-1HIPd TuPsdav with a <'.ill' suspnl't's dPscripLion. assis­think evorybody's st.ill pretty
ing here because they is something stolen, the stu­
r·hasP il!ld lh<' ai·n~st 111' an tant dirnctor of' :-.Jotni Damn laid back about Itheft in tlw
dents· usually lnf'l Urn door
view it like home. " 

allPg1·d si•rial burglar. SPrnrity/11olic1, Chuck llurlny dormsI."
open or unlocked," llurlny
l.01·1•11.1.11 .l111·kso11. 4L, of said. Considnring tlw vuhwrability
said. "ll is very important for
So11tl! BP1HI. was rliargf'd \\ii.Ii Tlw officer l'ollowed thn of rooms in dorms wlwrn
Father William Seetch students to lock their door." 
r,•lonv tlwl'I and rriminal lr<'S· vl'hil'IP southbound on U.S. entra11c11 doors rPmain
Morrissey rector Morrissey rector Father
passing al approximal<>ly IO :{I, tlwn wnstbound on Angnla unlocked,· l'Pmaln dorms have
William Scotch attributed tlrn
a.Ill. Tu1•sday. a St. .losPpli Houlnvard lo lliamond Avenun choson to sncurn main doors
lack of locked doors to stu­
CCJ1111ty .fail spCJkt>sman said. 1war 1.incolnway. at all times.
dents "naivnte about thnivos"
.Jackson found lhn man in his

Notn· Da1111i S1in1riLv/l'olil'n "\Vlwn the car stopped on "It is up to tlrn dorm rector
skills.
room af'ter rnturning from a

rPspnndPd to a ,:all at Linl'oln, tlw drivl'I' flnd on foot. whether the doors will h11
shower at approximately 8 "Safety 011 the campus is
'.\lorriss<'~' at approximat,'1y but tlw otlwr two passnng11rs, locked all the tim11, but I think 
a.m. Monday. The resident pretty good, but the quick thief 
X:LO a.Ill. af'IPr an unaulho­irll'luding tlw susp11ct, wnre it will nvnntually happnn,"
then discov1Hed money had is hard to find. Most of tho
rizPd JH'rson r1•por!Pdly apprPlwndnd." llurlny said. Seetch said. "Tho kPy issue
thieves are from South Bend,"
lrnnn taken from a wallet on

l'lllc•r,1cl a slt1d<•11t's unlodwd. Tl](' drivl'r was not caught, against it is hospitality.
his desk and reported the inci­Seetch said. "Students am
s1•roml-l1oor room. but two passengers were "When I was a student at
dent to Notre Dame very trusting here because
BPl'nrt• 01Ti1•prs arrivPd. llw an·1•stl'd. Notre Dame, all of the dorms
they view it like home.
Security/Police.

suspnrl lkd Lill' room. poliro .Jackson later was identified wern opnn," he continued. "It
"However, in the morning
Jackson also is connected to

r1•porlPCI. Tlw room's ri1sidPnls in a photographic li,w-up by a is a hassle and a lack of hospi·
a similar Aug. 27 crime when they are showering, tho
tlwn rhasPd him through llw tality when the doors arn
dorm rcsiclnnt. Tlw ollrnr pas­thief can go in and steal
reported by another Morrissey

dorm. locked all day, but it might be
s<• 11 gc r was arrcstnd on an money and CDs in seconds.
resident.

A wit1wss oulsid1• saw tlw necessary."
outstanding warrant. In all thrcn instancns, stu­Students need to lock their
suspt•fl run out ol' llw So11lh 
dents left their doors unlocked doors whenever they leavn
(}11ad hall and lwacl west on a Morrissey burglaries Staff writer Michelle Krupa
while they left to shower or their room," he added.
palll around Sainl Mary's Tlw student who identified contributed lo this report.
Sophomore Morrissey resi-
SMC improves athletic facilities for MIAA 
B~, MOLIY MCVOY 
:h,111t.11H ~pnn, b.liwr 
Nl'w rnurls. 1ww f'i<dds and nnw pPrso11111•I arP all part 111' l'uturn plans of' Saint Mary's ath­lt•tics, now a pPr111111w11 L nrnm brn· 111' tlw l'\li1:higa11 Collq{iat,, i\ihlntic /\ssodation. 
/\s an ofTirial 1·onf1>rn11l'n srlwol. athll'tics and rnr.ruiting bncome top pri11riti1\S, and the CollP){n's administration and athhitk dl'partnwnl lrnv1~ com­mittnd to nmovating sports facil­ities. 
'':\thlPtic: l'arilitins wr•re onP thing Lill' MIA,\ suggnSLNl wn work on." s1tid assistant athlntk diredor .lini Cook. "Hight away, w,• put a n11w f'Joor in so they r:ould sen that W!' wnrn cornmit­Lnd lo 11wnli11g tl11dr standards." 
MIAA standards 
Tlw Mil\/\ is rom1wscd of llivision Ill wllc,gns and univer­sities including llopn Collf'gn, /\lbio11 Collngn and Calvin Collq{<'. Saint Mmy's has b1wn a provisional memlwr sinc1• 1<JIJ7, and now, as a pnr11Huw11t 11wm­hf'I'. lh1\ Collq{P has bPgun mak­ing i11qirov1'.mcnts lo mnet con­f1•!'<\JlC1• standards. 
'\nrw StmgPr, a 1111•111lmr of' tlrn Studnnl ,\Lhlnlic Council. agrnns t.l11•rp is so11w 1w1irl for clrnngi1. 
cispt1cially in swimming. l'resPntlv. Sainl Marv's has a pool in Hi1gina llall. but this pool is nol rngulation size, and tho lPam practices at Notre Dame's f'a,:ilities. 
"I think a pool would be the most important improvmnnnt wn could have," said Senger. "Every ollwr tPam has a place to prac­tic11 on campus. and the swim tnam should be able to as well." 
Thn new scissor-lock wood floor in Angela Athretic Facility was installrd last September, and them am plans !'or six new t1111nis courts by this spring. Many Sainl Mary's l'acilities are cumpetilive with those at othnr MIAA schools. and lhose in need of upgradin){ will receiving athmlion, Cook said. 
"0111· sorcnr !fold is vHry clos1:1 
t.o top in our conforcnce." she explainnd. "We'll sPo improve­11w11ts in all othnr areas in tlrn l'uture." 
More improvements 

/\ng1da Athletic Facility, I.he main athletic building on cam­pus was t'.onstructNI in 1977. Although it won an award for archilnclurc in 1978, improrn­1111\llts am plannnd for it. 
Thnw treadmills, a H1wbok 
sec MIAA/pagc 4 
SIGN ME UP 

Members of campus clubs and activities recruit new members at activities night at the JACC yesterday. 
JOB TURNER/ 
The Observer 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Wednesday, September 1, 1999 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Yeah, I'm a slacker 
lley, I didn't do my homework the other day. I was supposed to read about 250 pages for four classes, but I didn't do it. 
That's not to say r didn't try. I stayed up until 1 a.m. reading one article for my sociol­ogy class. Actually, I fell 
asleep around 11 p.m., only turning my light off and setting my alarm with a guilt J was Loo tired to consider at 1 a.m. 
So I didn't think about. it. 
The next morning, when everything I was supposed to read was supposed to be 

discussed, r prayed for 

cancelled classes and all Mike Vanegas that special stuff that rarely happens. Instead of getting what r Scene Editor paid for, I got what I asked for. The professor in my first class of the day decid­ed that since I was closest to him, and since I brought a copy of the reading to class, that I would be the first one to be called upon for an insight. After a long deathly silence and a couple of ums, uhs and alrights, I coughed something up out of a certain nether area which is ref­erenced quite a bit throughout classrooms in Notre Dame. Ind. Needless to say, I was proud of myself for the rest of the day, at least until I bombed a quiz in a later class, based on the readings I didn't do. What I'm getting at is that I'm a big loser for thinking that this semester would be easy. As a senior, l thought. "Cool! I only have class on Tuesday on Thursday! I have it made! This is gonna be so easy! I can brag about it to others with heavier schedules! I'm so cool!" Really, all it means is more motivation to procrastinate. This kind of motivation does not exactly help for someone who has thrived on procrastination throughout his last seven years of schooling. It is unfortunate that my professors have been fooled into thinking that I have consistently done quality work. The lesson here, I suppose, is that what seems easy probably isn't. Unless you are taking a class called "This class is really easy, despite what '.'vtike's column said" 101, which will probably be kind of challenging anyway, everything that each and every one ·or you people out there confronts will be hell on earth. Every time y'all get in a bind, just remem­ber that your lifo sucks. Things probably won't get better, unless you drop out of school and start doing something you actually enjoy doing. If r had a chance to take all these feelings of guilt and heartache and throw them out the window, I would. Maybe it's that whole Catholic thing. Maybe it's just that I feel guilty about everything. But if I could get rid off all that crap, in a minute I'd transfer myself to Aruba or Hawaii or Manitoba. Of course, I can't rid myself of that crap. Instead, I must now worry constantly about my professors reading this and punishing me severely. I guess I'll try doing my homework next week or something. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those o.f the author and not necessarily I.hose ofThe Obserrer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Bill Uniowski Julia Gillespie JoshuJ Bourgeois Graphics Ka[e Steer 
Amy Crownover 
Sports 
Production 
K:1thleen O'Brien 
Mark DeBoy 



Viewpoint 
Lab Tech 

Brian Hobbins Eme~to Lacayo 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) i, published Mo11day ,hrough Friday except during cx.-m and vac.ition periods. The: ObscITcr i, a member ofthe Associated Press. All reproduction rights ar, reserved. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports



OUTSIDE THE DOME 
USC celebrates 'College of the Year' ranking 
U. OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA "They chose us because USC because of its ability to Acclaimed for its extensive implement programs that other col­
has done the best job in relat­
community involvement and outreach leges seek to emulate. USC's tradition programs, University of Southern ing to the community, making of serving the community California was chosen as the College the community a part ofthis was noted as being one of the oldest of the Year in the Time/Princeton and most intense programs at a uni­
university and making the 
Review college guidebook; which hit versity. 
newsstands last week. university a part of the A panel of experts chose this year's 
"I brag about our programs all the community. " theme -service learning -to see time. I can honestly say that our pro­how universities and colleges grams are second to none," applied classroom theories to the real 
Steven Sample
said Michael Jar.kson, vir.e president world through public service. of Student Affairs. president of USC "(The administration) used to say 
"It's extremely exciting to al] of us that USC was a private university with who have been working under a public mission," Jackson
one," Sample said. "They chose us 
President Steven Sample's said. "That's how USC first looked at
because USC has done the best job in 
leadership to interact with the com­itself."
relating to the community, making the 
munity." At least half of USC students volun­
community a part of this 
Sample spoke at a celebration in teer for class and for fun. Time high­
university and making the university a 
Hahn Plaza on Monday, announcing Hgh te d some of the various
part of the community." 
USC's honor. community outreach projects both
Editors of The Best College for You 
"They had over 4,000 schools to inside and outside the classroom in
selected USC as the college of the year 
choose from, and they chose this which they participate. 
Texas leads nation in state funding 
UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS AT AUSTIN 

Among Texas, New York and California -the nation's thrAe most populous states -Texas, includ­ing the UT System, received the largest percentage increase in state appropriations for higher education for the fiscal year 2000. The Legislature appropriat­ed $5.4 billion to the UT System, an increase of 9.3 percent during last year. State-appropriated funds pay for everything from scholarships to staff salaries. The University of California System's budget increased by 7.3 percent, and the State University of New York System increased by less than one percent from the previous year. L'T System Chancellor William Cunningham said cooperative efforts among public universities in Texas contributed to the fund­ing increase. "We had very well-coordinated efforts between all major systems of the state to explain to the legislature the financial needs of higher educa­tion," he said. Despite the larger increase, Cunningham said the UT System has been consistent­ly underfunded compared to New York and California. 
Colorado unloads archives to UT 
UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO AT BOULDEH 
The University of Colorado at Boulder has reportedly been secretly -but proactively -trying to unload its massive, world-renowned human-rights repository on other institutions willing and able to take it, the Colorado Daily has learned. Richard Lariviere, dean of the college of liberal arts at the University of Texas at Austin, said Monday that he was contacted in March by Bruce Montgomery, curator of CU's highly esteemed human­rights repository. "The gist of (Montgomery's message) was that the collection was tremendously important, but that Colorado was looking for a new home for it," Lariviere said. "It seemed peculiar to me that an institu­tion with such a valuable collection would want to give it to someone else." CU Boulder's human-rights rnpository, which measures some 8,000 linear feet, is in fact the largest academic collection of human-rights-related materials in the world. The repository, which is indis­putably priceless in terms of its historical significance, contains documents donated by the Guatemala Human rights Commission, the Soviet Jewry Hescue Movement and the El Salvador Archive Project. 

THIS WEEK IN SOUTH BEND 
Information compiled from the South Bend Tribune 

Wednesday  Thursday  Friday  Saturday  
. Swing dance lessons:  . Salsa dance lessons:  . Blueberry festival:  . Hot air ballon festival:  
Dan O' Day's, 8:45-10:45  Club Landing, 8:30-9 p.m.  Centennial Park  Centennial Park, 5:30 p.m.  
p.m.  . Poetry reading: Higher  . Doobie Brothers: MStar  . Couples line dancing:  
. Love, Sex, and the IRS:  Grounds Coffee House, 8­ Plaza Theatre, 8 p.m.  South Bend Eagles Lodge,  
Red Barn Playhouse, 8  10 p.m.  . Fall dance: McNaught  6-11 p.m.  
p.m.  . Tri-State bluegrass festi­ Park, 8-11 p.m.  . Bathroom humor: Dunes  
val: Noble County 4-H  Summer Theatre, 7 p.m.  
Fairgrounds  


LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
H 

~~,,._____ 
,, ....,,,-~,~/ . :'c'.\fe\-'."": 
. s 

Wedn~sday (f 85 53 
:•:,
...­

Thursday l) 86 60 ~:,\t.¥ 
40s ·1 ..e;t-"'--~· l ~ 
90s -~7 , -r.2, 50•,. ,_,,, Q, -80s '~
Friday ~ 85 65 V
3·, 
aos~ 100s 
FRONTS: 
.......,,.. ......... .............

Saturday ~ 68 :65 COLD srA1"10NAR'Y
C, 1999 AccuWeather, Inc, WIAAM 
P,e15ur•: ;. 
® © . Dc::::JQuJC:3 <)~'41~ 
High Low Showers Aaln T-ntorm• Flurrle• Snow lt:Q Sur'lhy Pt. Cloudy Cloudy
Sunday ¢: 89 65 VlilA~r;is/,n1P,-;;.,,-----. -. -----­
~..)'~;_, ·•··-.._,__/' 

Atlanta 86 68 Las Vegas 96 66 Portland 77 52 Baltimore 80 64 Memphis 91 68 Sacramanto 78 54 Boston 76 60 Milwaukee 81 64 St. LOUIS 88 67


<Q,Q,~p~Q t,f ~ u 
Chicago 82 57 New York 77 66 Tampa 93 75 
Showers T-sto,ms Ra,n Flumes Snow Ice Sunny Pt Cloudy Cloudy 
Houston 94 74 Philadelphia 79 64 Wash DC 80 66 
Via Assocfr~ted Press GraphicsNet 



Wednesday, September 1, 1999 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 





Anderson recognized for world-wide service 

CHEER COACH 

Exciting children's cheerleading program needs a coach for the fall semester. If you are a dependable, mature person with high school or college cheer experience and interested in coaching once a week in South Bend or Goshen please call Sheri at 765-423-4821. 
• 

Rome program gets funding boost 
Pd its Rome Studies program in 1969 and was its director for several years. A native of Naro, Italy, \1ontana studied architec­ture at New York University and the Graduate Ecole des Beaux Arts in Paris. from which he receivnd a degree in 1939. 
Ile taught architecture at 

Now Try 

, M>'S WEDMM>AY NIGHT HOG OUT On Sunday! 
• 
Home Delivered On or OFF Campus* for only $4.00/Snnday 

• 
Also save 60% OFF the daily NYT, delivered Monday through Saturday for only 40¢/Day 


Use Your Credit Card hy Calling: 

1-800-535-5031 
Mention Media Code: SXXWR 
• Hnme Dclivcry m,1y 1101 be av.iilahle 10 .111 aa·.is 

Notre Dame from 1939-47, worked for a time in ar~hitectur­a i firms in South Bend and Detroit, and returned to the University to chair its architec­ture department from 1950-72. lie directed the Home Studies program from 1972-75 and again from 1980-86, when he retired from the University. 
Campus buildings in whose design Montana was involved include McKenna Ilall (1965 ), thn University Club {1 %8). the Post Office {1967). the old Bookstore (1955), the Center for Social Concerns (built in 1955 as the WNDU television studios) and University Village ( I %2). 
The Home Studies Program, 

ByLIZZANONI 
News Writer 
Last spring break, senior Angela Anderson traveled to the small, third-world island of Haiti to improve polluted watf'.r condi­tions. 
Months before, she sludied small Christian community development in Bolivia. and in Octobflr J998, Anderson partic­ipated in a Catholic international youth encounter in Chile. 
Complnlion or such service projects rncently earned Andt)rson Lim 1999 Hichard J. Wood Student Community ;\ward, annually presented by Indiana Campus Contact, a national coalition of morn than 500 college and univnrsitics who focus on the promotion ol' service and voiunlt!cr programs. 
The Lyons Hall rnsidm1t rnccivod the award aJfor a nomi­natio11 by University President Father Edward Malloy, who servnd as the national chairper­son of Campus Contact from 19%-1998. 
"As Ms. Anderson has assumed more widespread leadership and responsibility, what may bu most impressive are her continuing efforts to remember those most in need and with the lnast voice," 
"The University itself doesn't make us cultural­ly aware; it is the respon­sibility ofthe students. Notre Dame's faculty and students are here lo sup­port these endeavors .. " 
Angela Anderson award recipient 

Malloy said of Anderson's mcord of commitment to community service. "There is a genuineness in hnr work that is heartening and hopeful," 
Anderson's volunteer work both through Notre Dame's Center for Social Concerns and other service organizations has given her tho opportunity to trav­
p) the world. 
Anderson, government and international studies major, worked alongside lield workers and investigated policy issues through the Migrant Experinnce Seminar during spring break of her freshman year. She soon became coordinator ol' the semi­nar and returned to Florida the following yPar. 
"There is an incredible source of compassion in that communi­ty," Anderson said about her migrant seminar experience. "Enriching myself in the migrant culture has helpnd mo understand some of the sacri­l'ices my family has made in their lives." 

On campus, Anderson chaired the Experinntial Learning Council which over­sees studnnt vacation smninars. Shn worknd with students, staff and the Board of Trustees to improve community service 
programs. 
As part of a group or Latino students working to bolster cul­tural awareness, Anderson said she believns studnnts must take diversity nducation into thnir own hands. 
"Then~•s always morn to learn," she said. "Tho University itsetr doesn't make us culturally awarn; it is the rnsponsibility ,if tlw students. Notm Damo's facul­ty and students am horn to sup­port thesP. endoavors." 
,\nderson 's future plans include post-gruduat11 study of law or public policy. She said she hopes to work wilh a non-profit organization and possibly nstab­lish an institute for community organization and social responsi­bility. 
Special ro The Observer 
Notre Dame has received a gift or more than $1 million from Frank Montana of Largo, Fla., for the College of Architecture's Home Studies program. 
"This generous gift gives Notre Dame one more reason to be grateful to Frank Montana," said University president Father Edward Malloy. "Few members of the Notre Dame family have had so profound, durable and beneficial an impact on our insti­tution." 
Frank Montana, who chaired Notre Dame's architecture department for 22 years, found­
page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, September 1, 1999 
field, and said she would like to see continued improve­

University announces pro01otions MIAA 
ment. 
By HELENA RAYAM 
News Writer 
With the school year under way. many members of the Notre Dame faculty am settling into new job positions after summer promotions. 
. After 10 years as chief elec­trical engineer for Notre Dame's Utility Department, Paul Kempf was promoted to director of Utilities. Although Kemprs pre­vious experience as a student and chief electrical engineer has given him knowledge of the campus and utility department, his new position allows him Lo do work in the various other areas of the utility department. 
''It's basically like a little city [in Notre Dame],'' said Kempf. 
The University uses so much electric power that the utility department is working on a project to add one new electri­caI generator and two new chillers. 
"We're air conditioning more buildings and this basically adds about a 50 percent increase," Kempf said. 
. Appointed assistant vice president for Student Affairs, G. 

David Moss, is responsible for the supervision of various stu­dent groups and services, including the Office of Multicultural Student Affairs, International Student Affairs, Notre Dame Bands and the sophomore mentoring program, Opening Doors. 
Moss's job involves attending senior sta!T meetings to discuss Student Affairs issues, but he plans to continue meeling with students. 
"By keeping contact with stu­dents...we're able to meet the needs of the students," said Moss. 
. 
.John Sejdinaj was promoted to assistant vice president of Finance and director of Budgeting and Planning in a newly named department focussed on long-term financial planning. 

"The whole of financial envi­ronment in higher education is such that we have to find how to keep costs low," said Sejdinaj. "It's a hard balancing act, [but] we want to make Notre Dame affordable for everyone." 

. 
The new director of Special Events for the University is 


Pamela Spence, who has worked on special-events plan­ning for Notre Dame for the last 17 years. She will be responsi­ble for coordinating various programs and visits from speak­ers. 
. In addition to being an active leader of the Notre Dame Alumni Association and profes­sor, Charles Lennon, Jr.. will increase his services as the associate vice president for University Relations. 
Lennon's contact with Notre Dame has been steady since receiving his master's degree in guidance and counseling in 196 l. Lennon has had a wide variety of positions at Notre Dame, including basketball coach and coordinator of research and sponsored pro­grams. 
. Douglas Marsh, who has been a project manager and architect in facilities engineer­ing, was promoted to director of Facilities Engineering. Marsh is a registered architect who has helped with the Center for the Homeless in South Bend and directed the renovation of Bond Hall. 
continued from page l 
trainer and Bodymaster equipment have been ordered. 
Saint Mary's also will move the fence on the softball field to meet MIAA and NCAA reg­ulations. 
Junior softball player, Cindy Traub. is excited about the changes in the softball 
'Td like to see a softball complex that, when I walk onto it to play, 1 feel proud," said Traub. 
In addition to the facilities' improvements, the athletic department hired a full-time athletic trainer for the first time in the College's history. Pam Braun will cover all medical needs of the teams and travel with them occa• sionally. 
Got news? 





Just call. 
·1-5323. 
REALITY: 

YOU'D LIKE TO CONNECT WITH A GREAT ORGANIZATION. 
VIRTUAL REALITY: www. pwegIo b a I.com/o c p 

/JRICEWAfERHOUsf[cnPER5 I 
Join us. Together we can change the world. sM 
0 1999 PricewalerhouseCoopers LlP. Prkew,1ff.>rhou~.:ooper., refers lD the U.S. firm of Prtcew.Ucrhouse<..oc.pc:vs LLP ;,md lJlhet rnemben. of tlil' worldwide Prir-ewaterhouseCoopns org.ini.(iJfion, We Jll' proud /1J be an Alfinrutive l\ctio!V[qua/ Oppooumty [mploye,: 

Recycle The Observer and help save the planet. 

.





orld 
•I 


Wednesday, September l , 1999 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
MIT student dies from laughing gas 
CAMB!l(l)(;I-:, Mass 

An I\IIT junior w,ts found dPad in his dorm room Parly T11Psday al'll\r using a plastic bag 111 i11lwlc· laughing gas, campus of'fidals said. Tiu• bodv of liidwrd (;uv, 22, was disrnvPrf'd shortly· aftl:r miclnii.:ti..t l\lonrlay. Cuy. of l\lissi1111 ViPjll, Calif'.. was a physi('s mnjor. TIJP 11u•tlirnl 1•xami1u•r said <;uy diPd from asphyxi­atio11 as a n'Slllt. of' nil rolls oxide• intoxka!ion. l'llrt' nilrnus oxidP dissolv,\S in till' hlood­strP,1111, pushing 11x~w•11 out. from tlw hlo11d into !lH• lungs, d1•privi11g llH• brain and othN orga11s 111' OX}'!-(l'll. l)pnlisls frt•qllt'lllly !ISP iL a<; a painkill.-r \-1ao,;sacliusl'lts lnstitull' of T1·d11111l11gy llifo·ials rd1·as1·d re\\ ollwr dL'!,iils HIHI clicl not 1·1·tt1rn phorn• C"alls SC'Pi-;i11g C'olll­uwnl. (:tassf's arP 1111! s1'111•d11!Pd to bPgin al !\!IT 11111il SPJ!I i, 1>111 rr1•sh111i'll and SOlllf' 11pp1•rl'l.iss111P11 lrnd alr,..idy 11H1\'<'d into lh<'ir n,11111s. 
Bull gores young bullfighter 
MAIJlill>. Spain 

.lulia11 l.11p1'1, nrw nl' Spain's top young matadors, was rPcovl'ring T111•sday from a llllrrilir ).{orin).{ in whil'h a liull's hDrn plungl'd 111 th" 1>11111· ol' his right IPg a11d lPl't a11 8-inch gash. Tlw 17-yc•,l!'-old 1.opPz, who goc>s by tlw 11a1111· ol' LI luli, u11d,,rwP11! surgnry at San :\lilla11 hospital in th<· nortlwrn c'.ily of' I.Dgro110. J>o,·tors said Ill' may IHIV!' suffnn•d darnagc> lo his sciatic IH'r\'t!, which carriPs irnpuls1•s !'or musnilar arlion and sPnsations h1•twP,•n thl' lnwnr hal'k ancl thigh and 1111• lmwr lt•g. Ile• was in stabll' C'omlition Tuesday. 1.opPI., who alrt>ady has a crPsc-1•nt-shap1•d farial srnr l'rom an parliPr bout, is c:onsidnrnd hy 111a11y as bullfighting's lwtlPst prospPfl in d1•cadPs. Thi' torPador's ratlwr, also nanwd .lulia11. said barring nl'l'VI! damagti. doctors say his son will lw out of' ac·tion for at IPast Lw·o w1•t>ks. 
Air passenger finds rat in lap 
.:\UCKI.J\ND, New Zealand 

A woman who round a i-at silting in hci-lap during an /\ir Nnw Zrntland flight rrom Los Ang1•li!s will lw nrt't•rcd compcnsalion, an air­li,w spokPsrrn111 said Tuesday. The stowaway rodent was lirsl spoltml aboard the Boeing7(,7-:rno afwr llw plane left Los Angnles on its way to Auckland, via l'apcetc, Tahiti. "The rat was sighted by crew bul Llrnir atl(!mpls to cnlrh il failcd whnn it ran to the rear of the aircraft," said Cameron llill, an airline spokesman. "l.at1!r in tlrn flight a passenger in business class foll something on her right leg, lil'ltid lrnr blankct and found Lhc rat on her krwes." Tlw nanw nr Lim passenger was not n•lcasPd. 
Market l#ttch: 8/31 

Dow 
AM1':X: 775.41

]ONES 
+0,20 Up: 
Nasdaq:

10829.28 6(16 
2739.35 

0' 
60011',:VO 
on.I. l'OMl•un.R 
'! Thl'I.E, IN< I\U('IUl,of.· 1· COki" 
JNrJ:1.(·UHI'
,·,,co:-r,rt/\l, 
"-,\IN MIUtoq "'n:,, AM,UON.( OM INC" ;\1( & \-\OH.LI)("OM &NC rAIIIM,\IN.COM INC 
\ r\000 lfllt(' 
+:!6,66 
NYSE: 
Down:
1112.33 
1868
·1.kO 
S&PSOO: 
1320.4 I 
Composite-3 61 
Volume: 601,500,000 
VOLUME LEADERS 
Of KtH 710UN(it· S4.,ir\lN l'Q!(t· nn.L ...~_jtf +l.-197~ "'il•l.:"1 .(I.Pl~ 
.C\.111".'~ M\f,'T +fl.•U 
tD.Jr!Hl !Ni(• -0.0't -0.IIMNI (.'tCU -ti.~'' 
+J,Qf!OU \ONW -l-~,11 +.U11~Ci .-\Ml.N . ,a.JD +S.1.100 
\l,,,OM .u..11 -0.JU~ f,",HH •,MUil t-ft.116'\41 ,1100 •2.~ t-J.flll7~ 


C0MPILEI> FH0M THE OHSEHVEH WIRE SEBVICES page 5 
RUSSIA 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW 
An explosion ripped through a video game par­lor in a shopping mall near the Kremlin on Tuesday, spraying glass and metal and injuring at least 30 peuplti. Police saidil could have been an attack by terrorists or by organized crime. 
The blast sent frightened teen-ager,; and shoppers rushing l'rom the under­ground Manezh shopping center -a mall popular for its fast-food restau­rants and shops stocked with Nike shoes and other pricey imports -and prompted tho Kremlin, only yards away, to beef up security. 

Company recalls allergic reaction kits 
A dutv orfirnr at the Federal ·security Service, the main succes·sor to the KGB. said chances were "great" that the blast, which went off in a video game parlor on the mall's lowest floor, was caused by a bomb. 
The officer, who would not give his name, said org11-nized erime and ter­rorist links were under investigation but gave no details. 
Moscow Mayor Yuri Luzhkov called it a "ter­rorist act'" -but said it was too early to tell for sure what caused the explosion. The mall was a pet project of the outspo­ken mayor, who is a leader of a party expected to show strongly in December parliamentary elections. 
Russia has scnrcs of bomb attacks each year, often involving organized crime groups or business rivals seeking to settle turf battles. 
Also, with the elections nearing, some officials have warned there could be politically motivated attacks. Meanwhile, some Hussian media suggested there might be a connec­tion between the bomb and fighting between Russian troops and Islamic militants in the southern republic of Dagestan. 
Luzhkov said there was no evidence yet of a politi­cal or Dagestan connec­tion. 
President Boris Yeltsin, who was at one of his country homes outside 
Stock Exchange. 

The recall involves three kits; the Insect-Sting Treatment Kit packaged and distributed by Derm/Buro Inc., and the Hollister Stier-Ana-Kit and the Ana-Guard, both pack­aged and distributed by Bayer Corp. 
All of the kits are sold by prescription and cost around $40. 
The kits should be returned to the hospital. clinic or pharmacy where they were obtained, American Horne said. 
Philip de Vane, North American medical director for Wyeth-Ayerst, said 
Moscow wlrnn thn 
blast went off Tuesday evening, expressed shock and offered hi,; condo­lences, according to his spokesman Dmitry Yakushkin. 
An FSB spokesman, Alexander Zdanovich, said experts spnculatnd that it could have been an explo­sive device with the equiv­alent of around 11 ounces of TNT. An explosive that size is relatively small. 
The blast destroyed a video game machine and damaged others nearby, shattering windows out into a row of fast-food restaurants next to the game parlor. Emergency workers carried out stretchers with victims, including teen-agers, bloodied with cuts. 
people should take no chances and should con­tact their pharmacists or health care providers to detormine whether their kit is being recalled. 
About 450,000 Ana-Kits and 55,000 Ana-Guard,; are being recalled in the United States and Canada, said Kathleen Bauernschmidt, spokes­woman for llollister-Stir.r Laboratories of Spokane, Wash. Bayer sold its aller­gy kit manufacturing busi­ness to llollistcr-Sticr in June. 
It was unclnar how many kits were being recalled by Denn/Buro. 
Associated Pren 
NEWYOHK 
More than 500,000 emergency injection kits for treating severe allergic reactions and asthma attacks are being recalled in the United States and Canada because the drug may not work. 
The kits are routinely carried by people who arc prone to acute asthma attacks or have deadly allergies to certain foods or bee stings. Users inject themselves with epineph­rine, als() known as adren­aline. to counter the reac­tion. 

The maker of the epi­nephrine, American Home Products' Wyeth-Ayerst Laboratories, said Tuesday that routine quality-control tests found that the drug was not as potent as it was supposed to be. No one has been harmed by the kits, a spokesman said. 
The recall is just thA lat­est setback for American llome, which faces legal problems over its diet drugs and Norplant con­traceptive device. Shares of American Home, down more 40 percent this year, foll 50 cents Tuesday to $41.50 on the New York 

page 6 The Observer . NEWS Wednesday, September 1, 1999 
Provost awarded endowed faculty history Chair 
Special ro The Observer two most important books in Hatch has been responsible Also during that time he
Hatch 's book, 'The 

the study of American reli­for a number of major acade­founded and directed the
Democratization of

Nathan llatch, the gion. mic appointments. including Institute for Scholarship in the University's provost, has been A member of the Notre American Christianity,·· new deans of the Colleges of Liberal Arts (ISLA), which fos­awarded an endowed faculty Dame facultv since 1975, published by Yale Engineering, Arts and Letters, ternd a six-fold increase in chair in history, according to Hatch earlier ·published "The Business Administration and external funding of faculty in
University Press in 1989,

University 
Sacred Cause of Liberty: the Law School, a new chair the humanities and social sci­
was called by professor

President Republican Thought and the of the School of Architecture, ences and assisted faculty
Gordon Wood ofBrown

Father Millennium in Revolutionary a new director of libraries members in winning 21 NEH Edward New England," also with Yale University, "the best book and new assistant provosts fellowships from 1985-91, an Malloy. L'niversity Press. He has edit­for enrollment and academic achievement that ranked
on religion in the early

W hi I e ed two books with Oxford outreach. Notre Dame among the top 10
Republic that has ever

continuing University Press and another, Ile also has launched a new private universities, national­to serve as "The Professions in American been written. " initiative to enhance Catholic ly. provost, History," with the University intellectual life at Notre Dame Hatch directed graduate Halch now Hatch of Notre Dame Press. three areas: with the establishment of the studies in the history depart· 
I s o A summa rum laude gradu­. nurturing academic cen­Erasmus Institute, a national ment from 1980-83, during becomes the Andrew V. ate of Wheaton College, Hatch ters of excellence, including center for scholarship which time he also won the Tackes Professor of History, in earned his master's and doc­expansion of the University's informed by Catholic thought. college's Paul Fnnlon Award recognition of his status as one toral degrees from Washington Keough Institute for Irish As vice president for for excellence in undergradu­of the most influential scholars University in St. Louis. He has Studies and Nanovic Institute Graduate Studies and ate teaching. in the study of the history of held postdoctoral fellowships for European Studies. the Research at Notre Dame from Batch's chair is Notre religion in America. at Harvard and .Johns Hopkins establishment of its Keck 1989-96, IIatch instilled a Dame's third Tackes chair in 
His book, "The Democi;atiz­Universities and has been Center· for Transgene vision of "small but superb" history, all created from tlw of American awarded research grants by Research, and the enhance­postbaccalaureate programs nstate of Androw V. Tackes, a Chi:istianity," published by the '\lational Endowment for ment of its Medirwal Institute; that attracted more and better native of Austria-Hungary who Yale Lnivcrsity Press i.n 1989. the Humanities (NEH), the . revitalizing undergraduate students to the University, as lived most of his adult life as called by professor American Council or Learned education through the creation well as substantial 1rnw an 1~lectrician in St.. Louis, Mo. Gordon Wood of Brown Societies and the American of' the Kaneb Center for resources. At his dr~ath in 1968 at age 82, Universitv, "the best book on Antiquarian Society. Teaching and L1-1arning, the He served as acting dean of he had accumulated a large religion i'n the early Republic Since becoming Notre Kaneb Teaching Awards and Notre Dame's College of Arts estate through wise invest­that has ever been written." Dame's provost, the new opportunities in off-cam­and Letters, its largest acade­ments and left gifts to a num­The book also was chosen in University's second ranking pus and international studies; mic unit, in 1988-89, and from ber of Catholic charities and a survey of 2,000 historians officer, in 1996. Hatch has . recruiting outstanding fac­1983-88 he was the college's institutions, including Notre 
and sociologists as one of the concentrated his efforts in ulty. 
Bradley criticizes Russian aid 
COME AND CHECK OUT THE OBSERVER FOR YOURSELF. THE OBSERVER OPEN HOUSE WILL BE FROM 4•9 TONIGHT IN THE BASEMENT OF SOUTH DINING HALL. 

associate dean. Dame. 
Women's Safety 
& 

Self-Defense 


The objective of this course is to expose women to basic self-defense techniques as used in real-life crisis situa­tions. 
Classes Begin Monday, September 6 10 Sessions on Mondays & Wednesdays 6:00-7:15 Rockne Memorial RM. 219 
Register in Advance at RecSports Registration Fee is $20.00 Call 631-6100 for more Info 
www.nd.edu/~recsport 
[}pen n1ic makes acou.sticafe the only 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Democratic presidential candidate Bill Bradley added his voice Tuesday to the political chorus criticiz­ing tlrn Clinton administra­tion's Russia policy in light of the Russian money-laun­dering scandal. 
Bradley also included the Bush administration in his assessment that "American assistance and lending poli­cies toward Russia have been misdirected and inef­fective." 
Federal authorities are investigating whether Russian gangsters, some with ties to the U.S.-sup­ported government of President Boris Yeltsin, runneled international loans and other foreign aid 
through the Bank or New York. 
"Russia is struggling with its transformation to an open, free-market nation. Several factors, including shortsighted U.S. policy, have contributed to this struggle," Bradley. a for­mer New Jersey senator, said in a statement. 
"Our assistance and lend­ing policies have done very little to further our strate­gic goals, the needs of the Russian people, or the cause of Russian reform." 
Further, Bradley said, the 
U.S. policy toward Russia since the early 1990's "has failed to properly address such issues as control of nuclear weapons, environ­mental degradation, ethnic disputes, and foreign debt." 
Bradley, who is compet­ing with Vice President Al Gore for the 2000 Democratic nomination, did not single out Gore for blame as have his Republican opponents, Steve Forbes and Elizabeth Dole. 
Campaigning in New Hampshire, Sen. John McCain of' Arizona said the United States should insist that the International Monetary Fund hold off on further loans to Russia until Moscow gets its house in order. 
"Obviously that money has gone directly from the IMF to Switzerland banks and U.S. banks and has not helped the Russian people -only the 'kleptocracy' and the mafia," the Republican presidential candidate said. 

place to /Jear a variet_l) of carnpus
fhnrsdaqs 
perforn1ers including musicians. poets.
Hflllf..,ICHHf 
etc. And as always. there's no cover. 
fkeknddJe 


Wednesday, September l, 1999 The Observer . WORLD NEWS 
CHINA 
Military exercises threaten Taiwan 
As,o~iated Pre55 
BEIJING 

China's People's Liberation Army reccnlly conducted sub­marine warfare cxerr.ises and missiln tnsts. the military's nr.wspaper reported Ttwsday. 
News ol' tlrn war games came as Prnsidcml Jiang Zernin, in an intnrvicw with an /\ustralian 11nwspi1prn·, niitriratc>d Bnijing's insistence on its right to usn l'or!'.e against Taiwan. 
Alt.hough China's staW-con­trollnd nwdia have t111wd down a campaign or anti-Taiwan rtwtoric, tlwv confinun to report on milit,;ry cx,1rcises and to publish commentaries lam­basting Taiwanese l'rnsidt!nt L1ii, Teng-hui l'or dciman<ling that lfoijing deal with tlm island on a state-lo-statci basis. 
China's official Xinhua News Agency criticized Taiwan's rul­ing party today for supporting Lee's stance. 
Tho move by Lee's Kuomintang, or Nationalist Party, after a weekend party meeting "will put an fmd to the future of the Kuomintang, and push Taiwanese people to the abyss of war," the news agency said. 
China and Taiwan split in 194') f'ollowing a civil war, and Boijing considors tlrn island a rnnegadc province Lo be retak­en by force if nocessary. 
Tlw People's Librration Army Daily reported that an unidenti­(ifld naval division carried out submarine-aircraft combat ganws in the East China Sea, to thn north of Taiwan. The report did not say when the war games took place. 
In a separate report, the newspaper said the air force had conducted tests of a new medium-range. surface-to-air missile on an unidentified "high plateau" presumably in China's far western region. 
China's president, in an inter­view with the nP-wspaper The Australian published today, reiterated his government's refusal to give up the option of using force against Taiwan. 
"If China werr. to undertake not to us11 force, the peaceful reunification of China would become hollow words," the newspaper quoted Jiang as say­ing in a r11port f'rom Beijing. 
The report said Jiang sought to reassure Taiwan about Beijing's vision for reunifica­tion. 

ARGENTINA 
26 survive airline crash landing 
Auociat<'d Prc<s 
IWENOS /\IBl•:S 

An /\rgnntirrn airlitwr carry­ing al hiasl <JO pnople crashPd 1111 taknol'I' Tupsday night. slamming into a golf' coursn and bursting into llanrns. 
Local nnws rqrnrts said at lc:ast ()9 p,iopk WPrl! killnd. 
TlwrP wiirP unconfirnwd niports of':!,<, survivors, at lnast two who jum1wd to safoty f'rom tlw disintPgrating Boning 7:{7 as it skidded in l'lamns IIC'l'OSS lfH' l'OllrSC). 
Thr, LAP/\, Uneas /\ereas l'rivadas /\rgnntinas, plane wc1nt down as it was taking off f'rom .lorgn Newberry airport, orw of thn city's largest, firn and policn officials said. 
Thn jet, which was beginning a trip to Cordoba, 4 7 5 miles to the northwest, burst into !'lames artc~r it slammed into tlrn golf course along the Hio dn la Plata riv<ir. 
On<' bystander said the plane had barnly chiared a f'ence sur­rounding thn airport before plunging to tlw ground. 

Notre Dame vs. Purdue Saturday, September 11 
The man, around 30 who declinnd to give his name, said people on the course shouted for passengers to get out of the wreckage. lie said he saw a man and a woman leap from the craft. 
"They were shouting franti­cally, 'We're safe! We're safe'," he said. 
Firefighters poured streams of water on the wreckage. Ambulances took away vic­tims, reportedly lo two area hospitals, sirens blaring amid a scene of nighttimr, confusion. 
page 7 
NORTHERN IRELAND 

Officials attempt 
peace negotiations 
. Former U.S. 
Senator returns to 
Belfast to mediate 
Associated Press 

BELFAST 
The outlawed Irish Republican Army is using threats and violence to turn Northern Ireland into "a Mafia state," the leader of the province's major British Protestant party charged Tuesday. 
David Trimble warned that Protestants could not accept IRA supporters as colleagues in a proposed Protestant-Catholic govern­ment for the province as long as the IHA refuses to renounce violence. 
Trimble, who has been desig­

"Nobody ­
nated to 

going to live in 
lead the Mowlam's n e w a Mafia state." handling administra­of the sit­ti on envi­uation.
David Trimble
sioned in S i n n 
Ulster Unionist Party
last year's F e i n G o o d hasn't Friday s a i d p e a c e whether 
accord, said his Ulster it will fully coopr,rate with Unionist Party had not yet Mitchell. Its senior mem­decided what role it would bnrs say limy will decide play -if any -in n11xt Saturday. 
week's formal review of the Meanwhile, rnod<Hatn unraveling 17-month-old Catholic politician John agreement. Hurne, who shared the 1998 "Nobody -nobody -is Nobel Peace Prize with going to agree to live inside Trimble, was reported a Mafia state," he said Tunsday in comfortable 
They cite the IRA 's long­
standing refusal to start 
disarming under terms of 
the accord, an arms-smug­
gling operation uncovered 
in July in the United States, 
links to four killings this 
year, and death threats 
issued last week against a 
half-dozen Catholics who 
fled the country. 
In London, British Prime 
Minister Tony Blair spoke 
by phone on Tuesday with 
his minister responsible for 
Northern Ireland, Mo 
Mowlam, who has been 
criticized by Ulster 
Unionists for taking no 
action against the IHA or 
Sinn Fein despite what they 
view as breaches in the 
IHA's .July 1997 cease-fire. 
Blair's spokes-man, 
Alastair Campbell, said the 
p r i m e 
minister 
fully sup­
nobody -is 
ported 

while discussing strategy with his party's lawmakers. 
Former U.S. Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell, who directed last year's negotiations. is returning to Belfast to over­see efforts to salvage the accord that began Monday. 
The Ulster Unionists have grown increasingly opposr,d to forming the intended centerpiece of the Good Friday accord -a 12-mem­ber Cabinet for Northern Ireland that would include two representatives from the IHA-linked Sinn Fein party. 
condition in an Austrian hospital. llume, 62, suf­fered a ruptured intc1stine Monday that party col­leagues said was stress­related. 
llume's Social Democratic and Labor Party reprnsents most of the provinc11's Catholics and, likn the Ulster Unionists, would hold !'our Cabinet posts. 
In a statnnrnnt, tlrn party warned that rocent violence by the IRA and anti­Catholic nxtremists ·alikn had strainnd the peace process "almost to the limit." 


!A:, Saint Mary's ~ ~)l~' Class of 2003••• K~' 
·· i. ·.· Freshmen Elections are " coming soon! If you are interested in becoming a member of your Freshmen Class Board, you will need to attend one of the following Mandatory Informational Meetings: Wednesday, September1or Thursday, September 2 7:30pm in Haggar's Welsh Parlor 
Questions??? Call Crissie Renner at x521 2 
Buses leave at 9:30 a.m. from the Stepan Center Game Time: 2:30 p.m. Tickets: $20.00 at the LaFm1une lnforrnntion Desk 
Bus tickets will !?,O on s:alc starting at 10:00 a.m. on September 2. For more information, cont:1ct Student Activities at 631-7309 
/\ lottery for NI) ~tudents interested in purchasing football tickets for the Purdu~ gume will be held hy Sl ll nn Scptcrnhcr I. I999. Please call 631-7757 for mon: dewi~. 



VIEWPOINT 
O
THf 

page 8 BSERVER Wednesday, September 1, ] 999 
THE OBSERVER 
Tiu-/,.,!,p,,.,u/,,.,.,, l)aily f,;,...,,,P"f""'" s,.,.,.;,.,r ,.V,,,,,.,,. {),n111,,.m1tl S•hir!tfnry's 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Oame. IN 4(>556 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF M ichdle Krupa 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINF.SS MANAGER  
M. Shannon Ryan  David Rogero  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  
Laura Pecdle  

NEW5 EDITOR: Tim L,,gan VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughen SPORTS EDITOR: Briar, Kessler 
SCE.NE EDITOR: Michael Vanegas SAINT MARY'S EOITOR: Noreen Gilbpie PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin 0.i.lum 
ADVERTISIN(; MANAGER: Bryan Lutz 

AD D.ESIGN MANAGER: Brer Hudar SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kushro 
CONTROLLER: Timothy Lane GRAPHICS EDifOR: Joe Mueller 

CONTACT Us 
OFF!Cf MANAGER/GENERAL INFO ...........631-7471 FAX............................................................. 631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................6.31-6900/8840 
observer@ldarwin.cc.nd.~du EDITOR IN CHIEF...................................63 I-4542 MANAGING EDITORiAssT. ME.................... 631-454 l BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. J@nd.edu VIEWPOINT................................................631-5303 
observer.viewpoim.l@nd.edu Sl'ORTS.......................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu SCENE... ......................................................631-4540 observer.scene. J@nd.edu SAJNT MARv's.............................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS ................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site ac http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-ro-che 
movies/music for 
minute forecas£S 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rates of print ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published aner 
rn meet che editors and 
Augusc 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independem, daily newspaper published in prinr and on!ine by the students of the University ofNorre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Edimria! conrenc is not governed by policies of the administration ofeicher inscirurion. Acting as pub­lisher ofThe Observer, che administration ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac prohibics the adver­tisement ofalcohol and The Observer's acceptance of advertisements from specified rypes of groups. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edirorials represem the opinion of che majoricy of che Editor in ChieC Managing Edimr, Assistant Managing Editor and departmenr edimrs. Commemaries, lerrers and columns present the views of the auchors and nae necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoim space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions rhrough letters is encouraged. 
Qutstiom regarding Obseroer policies should be direct­ed to Editor ill ChiefMicht:!le Krupa 
I 

Wake Up Calls Create Football Hype 
Only a week into my college career, I was quietly sleeping on the bottom bunk in 431 Keenan Hall trying to recover from the previous night's fes­tivities and the emotional pressure of trying to find a way to fit into a strange environ­ment. 
Suddenly, there came a loud pounding on my door. I rolled off of my bed and onto the already dirty carpet, stood up and groggily went to shout at my rude visitor. But by the time that I got to the door, the pounding had moved on down the hall and seemed to be coming from both sides of the hallway. Content that it was just someone pulling a prank, I shuffied back into the warmth of my comfortable bed. 
Before I could close my eyes and return to gentle sleep, the chanting started. 
It began somewhat muffled but then, with the subtlety of a tornado, it jumped in volume until I thought that the rock group Twisted Sister had actu­ally chosen my roommate's bunk as a location for a surprise concert. 
I got up again, walked to my door and opened it. Down the hallway about three rooms, a quad of guys had turned on their stereo full blast with the song, "We're Not Gonna Take It" rattling pic­tures on their waits. What I didn't notice at first was that the guys, back from their trip up and down the hall­way banging on doors, were standing around in their room, singing along with Dee Snider at the top of their lungs. 


Then, just as quickly as it began, the song ended and I heard a man say, "The Band of the Fighting Irish" fol­lowed quickly by a full decibel rendition of the fight song coming from the same room. 
I walked down the hallway and was welcomed into a full celebration of the beginning of Football Season by these upperclassmen. We were playing Northwestern that day. Northwestern! At the time, playing Northwestern was the equivalent of playing a Division II team. And yet here were guys getting so pumped up for the game that they felt the need to wake everyone in the hallway up and make sure that all could share in their excitement. 
It was an experience that was repeat­ed every week of that season, even dur­ing away games. Each week we won intensified the feeling on a Saturday morning -until we lost in the last game against Boston College to finish with a 10-1 record and yield the national championship to Florida State. 
That was the spirit that I came to know and love at Notre Dame. It wasn't just pride in a number ol' guys who could play a game. It was pride in the institution. It was pride in the national stage and prestige that our football program has. It was pride in the fact that visiting teams fear playing at Notre Dame Stadium. It was pride in the fact that we sell out more than 90 percent of our games and 100 percent of our home games. 
It was pride that no one complained about. 
When I heard that a bunch of Siegfried freshmen rallied around cam­pus at 5 a.m. I recognized that pride. These are freshmen! That campus security shut down their celebration is not surprising and is not to be con­demned. The security omcers have a job to do. It is not their place or advan­tageous to them to question their duties. 
The condemnation should come down on those students, rectors or staff members who complained. You are the reason that such spirit at our school is unusual. Sure everybody goes to the pep rallies and everybody cheers dur­ing the game, but in the ensuing four years that I attended Notre Dame after my freshman year, I never felt the hype, the excitement that I felt during that first year. 
On Saturday, I gathered together as many former Domers as I could find and watched the game from my couch. Fourteen people, most of' whom did not know each other came together in pride to watch their University's repre­sentatives do well on the field. But it wasn't only about football. Throughout the game, everyone asked, "Where are the Notre Dame commercials?" Sure they are cheesy, but we all love to see them. We all love to see the University and have pride in its good presentation. 
We remember the pride. We remem­ber the feeling of adrenaline and joy that came with the carnival that is Notre Dame Football Saturdays. Maybe you don't. Maybe you are the reason that Notre Dame couldn't finish as the top home football location in The Sporting News this summer. But I hope not. I hope you just weren't ready because the game was a week early. 
Matthew Loughran graduated in 1998 with a Bachelor's degree in gov­ernment and international relations. lie also served two years as an associ­ate news editor for The Obser/ler. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

DILBERT  
RATeEll.i THE CONSULT~NT  WI-\A.T IF THE NEW  
••.11-\EN WE'LL TURN OFF !HE EXISTING COt-\PUTER 5Y5TE.M5 AND FIRE OP 1HE NEW ONE.  5YSTE.M D0E.5N'T WOR\\ ON THE. HR51' TR'<? WON'T THE ECONOMIC. 1r-\P~CT \3E.. DEVASTATING?  

SCOTT ADAMS 

~ NOPE.. I GET 
PJ>..ID E.XAC.TLY 
u.: 
THE S~ML 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"In life, as in a football game, the principle to follow is: Hit the line hard." 
Theodore Roosevelt American President 


VIEWPOINT 
THE Wt:dnesday, September I, 1999 OBSERVER page 9 -__-..:::-.::::=--_-_-_-__-_-_====-------=--------=----_-_--::_-_-_-_---:__-_-_-_---:__-_-_-_-_-_-_--_-_-.::-.::-.::--=-=-=-=-=--=--=--=--=--=-=-=--=--=--=--=--=-=-=--=--=-=--=--=--=--=--=--=-=-=-=--=-=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=-=--=-=--=-=--=-=-=-=-=-=-=--=--=-=-=--=-=---=--~~~--============== 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
UVA editor responds to Notre Dame ad policy 
Ownership of press allows University to make ad rules 

Thi~ is a rPply lo .lay Johnson and all llH' otlwr whin-F.... Prs who rlt>cry th,, Univcr:-;ity's ban on gay ads as au ----­"al tack 011 th,~ First !\mm11lnwnt." Mr..lohnson, b,1ing 111 gowrnlllt)lll and i11lcrnalional studies, should know that ir is not an 11U.ack on llw First !\mnndnwnl. 
l't\rhaps lw lms not read lhc 11.mt>m.lnwnt. Perlmps. as i1 is said.";\ littll' k11owledg1) is a dang1•rous thing," and he has l1~arncd jusL t!nough lo be abl,i lo conl'mm the iss,w by pn•srinling a rNI lwrring. 
1'1·rti1w11tly. tlw First Arncmlmnnl lo Llw Constitution ol' llll' Unitt>d S1 atPs says "C:ongrnss shall make no law ... prohibiting tlw fret) l)Xt~rcis1) lof rnligion I; or abridging t.ht• fr1•1·do111 of' sp,•cch. or of !lw press ... " 
1-'irsl. till' Univt~rsily is 11ol tlw C:ongrnss. 
Snm11d. lht• ll11iv11rsily is 11ot prohibiting p11oplc from having lhcir lnlll~rs lo thf' <~dilflr published. although it could, h11ca11sl' ... 
Third ti wish I rnuld remember who said this), ''1-'rt•Nlom of thn prnss bdongs lo thn one who owns mw." Tim llniversity owns this prnss. Notrn Dame, as a Catholic institution, sc1ims to havn a need not to legit­imiw Uw l10mosnxual lil'nstyh'. ll tlrnrel'orn has the right to dictall' tlrn. conl<'nl ol"Tlw Obsnrvnr as to tlrn adver­tisP11wnt of' any organization contrary to, or snemingly rnnl.rary to tlw Catholic Church's position. 
Mr. .Johnson and olhnrs, all of us, am permitted on this campus to make our views known. but w11 should try to avoid blunting our points by rationalizing our t'motions with psnudo-lngalistic, pnriplrnral issues. 
Michael Swadener Scaff. l-lcsserr Center for Aerospace Research August 3 I, 1999 

Stereotypes 
fuel confusion 
Jn rcspons1) to Carrio Leonard's ktter in Monday's Observnr, I do not feel that tlrn African-Amorican alumnus who had submitted the lotter earlier had anything against custodians or janitors at all, I foci the issue involved was the issue or proronceivod notions that pnople may carry aboul others based upon their ethnicity, gender, rnligious hPliol's, pnrson­al appearance, occupation, etc. 
Though we should nil try to "move on" aftnr mis­takes are made, we should attempt lo learn from them as well. 
Though the alumnus· expnri,rnce could well havn been an honest mistake, wn should not bn afraid to examine what can lead lo these mistakes without being accused of turning something into a racial issue. Just as we should not look at custodial snrvicns any dilTPrently from how we look al other profes­sions, we should strive to sen one another in tlrn sanw light. 
As we approach this new millennium, wn should all look within ourselves and work to look beyond what­ever assumptions we may have about other people based upon their gender, ethnicity, rdigious beliefs and occupation. 
Jesse Dang 
Sophomore fremandc, W. Ausrralia Augusc 31, I 999 

At 01w point charing my agonizing search for llw pPrfoct collngn, I had two mu,jor crih!ria. B,dng a good Catholic girl, 1imriously considered attc-nding a school af'tiliated with th11 Church. I also hoped to attend a school that nmphasizPd acadmnic frnndnm. 
Katie Dodd

and partirnlarly, 
mw that could prn­
parn mti !'or a canHir in journal­
U-Wire

ism. I mwer imag­
inncl that thosn two 
Column 

rritnria rould lw at odds. But 21 ynars of Sunday Mass should havn taught mn IIPVl!l' to unrlernstimaw the Catholic C:IH1rcl1. 
l.ast w1ink, thP University of Notre Danw announced a new editor's policy that forhids Uw school's campus news­paper, The Obsnrver, l'rom accepting adv,irlising from any "outsidn groups that. dirt\dly or indirectly, nspousc positions contrary to the teachings of llw Catholic Chur('h." 
Specifically, tho university prohibits nds rrom the Guy and Lesbian /\lumni or Notrn Dame and Saint Mary's Collng,i HiALA-ND/SMCl. as well us ads from any pro-choicP organization or abortion clinic. 
According to an arUcln in Friday's Ohsnrv1~r. the student-run newspaper ''has completc editorial indepnndm1cc from ltw tJniv1!rsity, but accnpts some advnrtising rngulation," bncause tlw school provides limited financial sup­port. Tho University also alluws tho publication to collect a $12 circulation f1\n l'rom car.h Notre Dame studnnt. 
i\s the ollicial publisher ol' Lhe papor, Notre Damn has the legal 1wllwrity to placn restrictions on advnrtising in the paper. But legality and ,ithics arc rnrnly compatible. The 
University's actions am just plain limiting what kind of information can wrong. and cannot be communicated, it nar­The Constitution guarantees the rows our perspective and thus violates right to freedom [If the press in the a major principle of education. And 
First Amendment,  that makes it com­ 
a.nd in 1975's Bigelow v. Virginia. the Supreme Court ruled that "speech  By banning advertisements for certain organizations, Notre Dame is attempting to  pletely unwelcome on a college cam­pus. The college expe­ 
is not stripped of First Amendment protection merely because it appears  steer students loward the choices the administration and the  rience teaches young men and women about life. And part of the  
in the l'orm of a  Church deem appropriate.  way it does that is  

paid C[)mmercial 
advertisement." 
While the Court has contended that not all commercial speech is necessari­ly protected, thn ad in question in Bigelow was for abortion clinics. The Court found that it "conveyed informa­tion ol' potential interest and value," and thus deserved protection. 
While lheni are certainly legal ques­tions involved in the Notre Dame case that could preclude the Bigelow deci­sion, tlrnre is morn at stake here than just a constitutional issue. Nntrn Dame's ar.tions arc inconsistont with the purpose of an educational institu­ti[)n and its responsibility to students. 
The term "higher education" refers lo morn than just advanced academic co11rsPs. College lecture halls and labo­ratories often are the birthplaces of the most innovative and progressive cliscoveri(!S, and the ol'fices of' the rebels who strive to change history and breakdown society's norms, That is the power of education -it allows us to view our world with a broader purspective, and crnate a formula for change, 
In order for that kind of atmosphere t() thrive, however, there must be com­plete intellectual freedom. C<lnsorship violates lhis freedom in every way. By 
by giving students 

responsibility and independence. Students make their own choices, accept the consequences of' those choices and form new under­standings of lifo. It is the only way to learn. 
By banning advertisements for cer­tain organizations, Notre Dame is attempting to steer studenL<; toward the choices the administration and the Church deem appropriate -like a het­erosexual lifostyle or a pro-life philoso­phy. With a population that is prcdom­inantlv Catholic, it is true that the schooi has some responsibility to the Catholic faith and its teachings. 
But a university's foremost responsi­bility is to its students -all of them. There is a non-Catholic population at Notre Dame, and there most likely arc Catholic students who don't agree with every asper,t of the Catholic tradition. 
Despite the Church's stance on homosexuality, Notre Dame clearly is home to a gay and lesbian population -if a small one -as evidenced by the presence of GALA and another campus organization known as OutHeach ND, By forbidding those groups to adver­tise, Notrn Dame not only is alienating part of the student population, but it may be prev1mting students from join­
ing an organization that will provide them with the support that young peo­ple often need when dnaling with issues of sexuality. 
Furthermore, by not allowing abor­tion clinics or pro-choice groups to advertise in the paper, the University may be directly limiting the choices !'or its women, should they bernme preg­nant, by keeping important informa­tion from them. 
But oven if the women are well­informed about reproductive options ­despite the University's best efforts ­the administration is implicitly con­demning certain ones. This could indi­rectly in11uence a W[)tnan's choiC11 -a choice that she legally and ethically has every right to make. 
Evidently, Notre Dame is placing more emphasis 011 enforcing the Church's teachings than concerning itself with tlrn emotional welfare of its students or the quality and range of education it is prnviding. Hnvoking the policy most certainly would causn the University to relinquish somP control over student publications -and possi­bly P,Ven its students' choic1is. 
But it is the fairest way to serve the students -the best way to ensurn their intellectual and emotional dcv1il­opment. Like any educational institu­tion, Notre Dame owes its students at least that. 
Katie Dodd is an opinion editor for The Cavalier Daily and a fourth-year student at the llnil'ersity of Virginia, 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Obsenier. 
• I 


cene 
O
THE page 10 BSERVER Wednesday, September I, 1999 
Southwest comes 
Snite Museum opens exhibit from 
Taos, NM., where two inspired 

men founded an artist colony 100 
years ago 

By JOHN CRAWFORD 
Scene Wrircr 
It all started with a broken wagon wheel. 
Taking off on a summer adventure. two young artists trekked south from Denver through the Colorado Rockies. They plodded along in a horsP-rlrawn wagon, painting and sketching as they traveled. The year was 1898. 
Then, the aforementioned wagon wheel broke, and the young artists suddenly found themselves outside Taos, N.M., a land of sky, clouds and mountains. Unexpectedly, they stumbled upon a place of inspiration. Their senses over­loaded with imagery and colors and beauty. One of the artists, Bert Phillips, claimed to have "found more inspiration and material for creative work than I could use in a lifetime." 
who lived in the stimulating Taos area. 
"It's the biggest show I've done here," said Dean Porter. who acted as the Suite's director for 25 years before stepping down in May. Now serving as direc­tor emeritus, Porter and the museum's staff have opened the exhibit after spend­ing seven years organizing it. 
To walk amongst "Taos Artists," which opened Aug. 29 and runs through Nov. 14, is to step into a John Forrl westE1rn. One is confronted by cowboys and horses, American Indians and wide open spaces, sombreros and a rocky, golden terrain. 
In many ways. it documents a way of life now gone, that of the American WP-st. "They [the artists] wanted to capture it before it disappeared," Porter said. "The entire landscape was disappearing." 
It is also an exhibit that allows museum-goers to StHi the story behind the paintings. Through each work's labels and descriptions, the exhibit details the patrons who supported the arti6ts in their work. 
"A show like this has never been done before," Porter said. "This is about peo­ple and their relationships, more than the final work of art. The show is about relationships and how they contributed to the final work of art." 
"An exhibition should challenge. If you're not challenged with this show, you're not reading the labels," he added. 
With no galleries or exhibition spaces available in the seduded Taos area, artists were dependent on patrons for survival. The P-xhibit chronicles the friends, corporations and foundations that helped the artists. 
ln many cases, that financial help gave the artists tlrn economic freedom they needed to paint. In others, though, patronage came with a price. 
"Not all patronage is positive," Porter said. "They [the patrons] dictated what 
you painted. If you want to be an artist. you want to do 
something that you want to do. That's when patronage 
The summer trip was over. Phillips and fellow artist, Ernest Leonard Blumenschein, decided to stay in Taos and form an artist colony. Numerous friends and colleagues soon followed them there. .  ·:4 show like this has never been done before ... This is about peo­ple and their relationships, more  fails, when you got to do sonrnthing you'rn forced to do." For example, some artists found themselvt>s painting American Indians to be usf!d in advertisenwnts by the Santa Fe Hailway Company. Other artists found the most  
More than 100 years later, the Snite Museum of Art cele­brates the colony that inadvertently stemmed from that  than the final work of art."  minute detail, like the number of angels depicted in painting, to be controlled by patrons.  a  
broken wagon wheel in a new exhibit entitled "Taos Artists and Their Patrons: 1898-1950." Large in scope and ambi­ Dean Porter  Still, over the years, a number of prominent artists camp to Taos, including painters Ceorgia O'Kppffo and John  
tion, the exhibit features 85 works by southwestern artists  Director Emeritus, Snite Museum  Marin, photographers Paul Strand and Ansel Adams and  


Walter Ufer's "Their Audience" is one of 85 works on display at the Snite Museum's recently opened exhibit, "Taos Artists and Their Patrons, 1898-1950." "Their Audience" can be viewed until November 14. 

ene 
O
THE 

Wednesday, St:pternher 1, l 999 BSERVER page 11 

wrilt~rs like Willa Call.er and D. II. Lawrnnce. 
In Taos. they found refuge from tlw progress descending upon the world. 'fochnology was hurtling forward, but Taos remained lost in time. It didn't even have l'iectricily until 1928. 
"IL was the time of the industrial revolution," Porter said. "Cities were pretty dirty. l'noplP wantPd to return Lo nature. It was a place relatively untouched. It was 1•xotil', tlw plare to go. It's railed the 'Land of Enrhantment.· People went 
tlwrP to g<'l away." Tlw la11dscapn of this untouched arPa crPpt into LhP paintings of' LIH' Taos paintPrs. "Tiu• landscapt• inspired llw colors," said 
:hw'.k Loving. the 111 us1iurn 's intnl'im dirnctor. "Ntnv 1\frxico is au ,tr<'ll of tuxturn," l'ortnr ·1d.d1•rl. "You f'P1d tlw tnxturP of' adnbP lin tlw 
l<1i11t.ingsl." . 
Mountains fill many of tlrn nxhibit's works. In ·onw, tlwy loom over 1.!w background, as in W. IPrlwrt llu11t.011·s "Tlw Horse Wraughir," which li•pkts a lfllwly cowboy. Far lrnhind him, hills 
it small. 
111 olh1•r works. mountains dominate. The 
nournnrs in l'liillips' "l'cnit1\nto Burial 
"Taos Artists and Their Patrons: 1898-1950" 
The Snite brings a unique exhibit displaying 85 works by Southwestern artists. 
. What: Art exhibit 
. 
Where: The Snite Museum 

. 
When: Open until Nov. 14 



'ron~ssio11 -Nnar Taos" look i11sig11ificant eompar1'u l.(l the mountains scraping 
ltP sky aro1111d LhP111. 
"Yoti could paint llw same nwu11tai11 for 20 years and not get the same pic­
1m•." l'ortcr said. "H's something in the clouds am! the light." 
Spirituality among Taos Hispanics and American Indians also find their way 
nto many artists' works. Crosses fill paintings such as Walter Ufer's "Hunger," 
Jnrbara Latharn's "Decoration Day" and Blumenschein's "Superstition," which 
icturcs an American Indian mcclici1111 man who has adopted some aspects of the ,-vhitn man's religion. I "It's a very spiritual place," Portnr said. "The church thnre is very special. It's 
Ill amazing placo." 
Surrounded by thr spirituality. landscapes and unspoiled world of Taos, writer \1.ilwl IJo<lgc Luhan, who lived in the area l'or over 40 years, wished lo establish Laos as "the birthplace of a new American civilization." 
... 
1l 
That dream, however, would gradually fade. Changing times eventually came to Taos around 1950, the year the exhibit ends. 
Primarily, painting in general underwent a major transformation around that time. Depicting landscapes, such as the beautiful mountains and skies of Taos, stopped being the aim of art. Painting became less about people and places and more about emotions and ideas. 
"The art rhanges dramatically," Porter said. "There is less identity." 
"It was no longer about depicting the external world but the internal world," ­
Loving said. 

Civilization, which for decades was seemingly held at bay, also encroached 
into the area. Taos was no longer isolated, no longer a place to get away from 
the world's noise and hustle. 

"Taos was a mud town," Porter said. 'Today, it's got McDonald's. Today, you 
have a million visitors a year. When the tourists are there, you haVEl gridlock." 
Finally, Lim romance of Taos farled. The American West was just a memory. 
"Perhaps tlrn attraction of the American myth had run its course," Loving said. 
Several other pictures of note in the exhibit include: "Too Old for the Habbit 
lluut" by Oscar Berninghaus, which shows an aging American Indian sadly 
watching as a hunt leaves without him; lifer's "Bob Abbott and llis Assistant," 
which portrays a mechanic and his American Indian assistant next to a battered 
old car: and "The Stoic" by Joseph Henry Sharp, which pictures an American 
Indian in grief. 

Accordin~ lo museum notes, the grieving Indian in the painting cut his back muscles and tied several buffalo thongs to them. To a rope attaclrnd to the thongs, he then tied several pony heads. Throughout the day, he dragged tlw heads around the hill side to show he possessed the !itrengt.h t.o face any prob­lem. 
The exhibit, which is free to the public, first opened at the Gilcrease Museum in Tulsa in May. After leaving Notre Dame, it will head to the Phoenix Art Museum in December. 
The sh()w·s last stop will be the McNay Art Museum in San Antonio at the end of 2000. 
Museum staff believe the new exhibit to be a worthy one for the Snite. 
"I think [the museum walls] have never looked this good," Porter said. 
According to Gina Costa, the museum's curator, "(An exhibit like this! won't happen again, or at least in another 15 to 20 years." 
page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, September l, 1999 
_.. ..., 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 

USC miffed over drop in rankings 
Associated Press LOS ANGELES The USC Trojans better hurrJ up and play a game or theyOre going to fall out of the national rankings. A bemused coach Paul Harkett turned the tables on reporters Tuesday, saying, "I have a question for you. How can you drop a couple of places even when you don't play?" The Trojans, who open their season Saturday, were ranked 19th in The Assor.iated Press preseason poll but slipped to No. 21 this week, the first vote after a smattering of early

.. 
games. 
Arizona's 41-7 drubbing at Penn State last weekend apparently soured tho media poll board members' opinions about other Pac-10 teams, including USC. 
Arizona, considered the fron­trunner for the conference title this vear, was ranked fourth, but f~ll to 15th after the loss to the Nittany Lions, who moved from third to second in the rankings. 
UCLA, which also has yet to play a game, dropped a notch to No. 17, and the Pac-10's other representative in the rankings. Arizona State, remained at No. 25 while awaiting its season opener. 
"So Arizona loses and we drop down? I'd think it would 

r be hard to drop when you don't play," Hackett said, smil­ing and shaking his head. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
"How can you drop a 
couple ofplaces even wizen you don 'l play?" 
Paul Hackett use football coach 
It might get even weirder for USC this weekend; the Trojans play at Hawaii, facing a team that is mired in the nation's longest losing streak, 18 straight. Even a victory by USC, which is favored by four touchdowns, probably won't impress voters. 
Hackett, who guided the Trojans to an 8-5 record last season in his first year, doesn't think Arizona's one-sided loss to Penn State provides much of an indication about the Wildcats, or the rest of the Pac-10. 
"1 just think that sets every­body up." he said."! think that was one of those deals. I've had the misfortune to play in Happy Valley myself. It's an extremely difficult place to play. If they (the Nittany Lions) get on a roll, they don't ease up. It just snowballs. 
"It has happened historically to some very good teams. So I don't really put any stock into that (the Arizona loss) at all. It was just one game." 
Hackett believes Arizona, and the rest of the conference, will be just fine. 
"I think Arizona will bounce 

back against TCU, and I think they'll still bo a very good team," Hackett said. "I think the Pac-10, as the year unfolds, people will under­stand how good we are." 
The Trojans should be better than last year, wlwn Hackett was still getting used to ihe job and the players. The offense looks particularly strong, with quarterback Carson Palmer bark after winning the job as a freshman lasl season, along with explosive wide rnceiver­kick returner R. Jay Soward and tailback Chad Morton.. 
Looking to the Hawaii game. Hackett is concerned about what he considers the perils of playing in paradise. 
"It's what I refer to as a for­
eign and hostile environment," 
he said, seriously. "from the 
Astroturf to the stands, to the 
crowd, to Waikiki, none of 
those things are in ou,r favor. 
We'll find out if we're a 
mature enough team to learn 
from happened in El Paso." 

What happened in El Paso last Doc. 31 was that the heav­ily favored Trojans were beat­en 28-19 by TCU in the Sun ·sow!. That should help his players make sure they don't take the Rainbows lightly, he 
said. 

"I don't have to say much 
about that. This team was in El 
Paso. I think they realize the 
consequences of not prepar­
ing," Hackett said. "One of the 
good things to come out of that 
is that I think we will be seri­
ous about this game." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 r·m. ar rhe Norre Dame office, 024 Sourh Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, indt1ding all spaces. The Observer reserves rhc right to cdir all classifieds for content wirhout issuing refunds. 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Courts discourage ESPN lawsuit 
• Cable network and MLB urged to settle out of court 
Associated Press 
NEWYOHK 

A judge on Tuesday discour­aged major league baseball from filing a motion to dismiss ESPN's lawsuit over the sport's decision to pull its Sunday night games off the cable network. 
In a conference bctwnen lawyers for ESPN and base­ball, U.S. District Judge Shira Scheindlin encouraged the sides to resolve the disputB before a trial starts in mid­Novernbcr, a person involved in the dispute said on condi­tion he not ho identified. 
ESPN filed suit in May after baseball terminated a $40 million a year contract with the cable sports giant that was supposed to last through 2002. 
For a second straight year. ESPN switched threB Sunday night baseball games to ESPN2 so it could show thrne NFL games instead in September. 
Baseball refuses to take a back seat to another sport, and gave the games back to the teams to sell to local broadcasters in 1998. 
This year, baseball termi­
nated the deal, setting off the legal dispute in May. ESPN argues it has the right to switch baseball gams to ESPN2 for events "of signifi­cant viewer interest." 
Baseball says the move must be made with its approval, whir,h cannot be unrnasonahly withheld." 
ESPN wants to make the switch to acc:ommodate its $4.8 billion deal with the high­ly rated NrL. 
ESPN is available to about 76 million hom1~s. while ESPN2 is available in GS mil­lion. 
September baseball games on ESPN averagml a 1.7 rating in 1997, about a quarter of' the NFL's average in the samP. time slot last year. 
In related news, ESPN said it had resolved a separate dis­pute with baseball over the use of highlights 011 its nightly "SportsCenter" show. Earlier this season, baseball said it would enforce a limit of five minutes of same-night high­lights per show. 
That was a dramatic cut­back for ESPN, which stopped airing highlights for all games. That began to change a few weeks ago. 
"We have reached an agree­ment with baseball on the expanded use of highlights," ESPN spokesman Chris LaPlaca said. 
FRATERNITIES.SORORITIES and  WANTED­ FOR SALE  
STUDENT GROUPS: Earn $1000­ ND football tix.  N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS  
NOTICES  2000 with easy CIS Fund Raiser  FOR RENT  FOR SALE  AM -232-2378  CALL 271-9412  
event.No sales required.Fund  PM · 288-2726  
Raiser days are filling up,so call  ALUMNI NEED 4 ND-MICH. TIX.  
HEY FROSH  today.  ROOMS FOR RENT IN Pf}IVATE  Beautiful brass bed, queen size,  ND football tix for sale.  PLEASE CALL 271-8222_  
LOOKING FOR THE MOST POPU- Contact Andrea  HOME FOR ND-SMC EVENTS.  with orthopedic mattress set and  AM -232-2378  $$CASH$$  
LAR CLUB SPORT ON CAMPUS?  800-829-4777  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  deluxe frame. New, never used, still  PM -288-2726  
LOOK NO FURTHER THAN THE  243-0658.  in plastic. $235.  PURDUE TIX  
MEN'S CREW TEAM. (YES, THAT  STUDENT OPENINGS  219-862-2082.  I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME  TICKETMART  
IS ROWING FOR THOSE OF YOU  5-30 hrs./week. Flex. around  3 bdrm duplex, remodeled. 503  GAMES.2726551  271-9330  
WESTERNERS.) LOOK FOR THE  classes.  Eddy, one mile from campus.  SILVER TREK RACING BIKE.  
OARS ON ACTIVITY NIGHT AND  Scholarships avail.  Appliances, W/D. 273-8332.  52cm frame. 12 spd. Excellent con- BUYING and SELLING N D FOOT­ NEED MICHIGAN TIX!!  
SIGN UP!!!!  www.workforstudents.com/lN  dition. $1S0/obo.  BALL TICKETS.  Please call Tim, 634-0959  
....  282-2357  B&B  Rich 289-3921 .  GREAT PRICES. CALL 289-8048  
Gay, Lesbian and Bisexual  ND FOOTBALL & GRAD.  I need 3 Arizona tix-Please call  
students of ND/SMC meeting each  3 MILES TO N.D.  Spring Break Specials!Bahamas  Colleen 4-2244 if you can help!  
Thurs. For info call:  VOLUNTEERS NEEDED  287-4545  Party Cruise 5 Days $279! Includes  I need one ticket for MSU.  
(877)631-6OUT  The Early Childhood  Meals!  Name your price and call  I need 3 Arizona tix• Please call  
Development Center, located at  HOMES CLOSE TO CAMPUS  Awesome  Bryan at 1-6900  Colleen 4-2244 if you can help!  
LOST & FOUND  Saint Mary's College and the University of Notre Dame, is looking for volunteers who enjoy working with young children.If you would be  http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/ 232-2595 THAT PRETTY PLACE,  Beaches,NightlifelCancun & Jamaica 7 Nights From $399! Florida $129!springbreaktravel.com  +++++++++++++++++++++++++++ ++ N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS  PERSONAL  
LOST:  interested in  Bed ana Breakfast Inn has space  1-800-678-6386  BUY/SELUTRADE  
- MEN'S PRESCRIPTION GLASSES  spending 2 hours a week  available for football/parent wknds.  ALL GAMES  Interested in learning classical,  
STOLEN OUT OF CAR NEAR  reading children's books,  5 Rooms with private baths, $80·  NEW Prepaid Phone Cards'!!  ALL LOCATIONS  jazz, rock guitar? only $50 a month  
O'NEILL HALL IN AUGUST  building with blocks.and  $115, Middlebury, 30 miles from  $20 ->669 minutes  GREAT PRICES  (4 1 hr. lessons). Call Brendan at  
REWARD!  singing songs with children,  campus. Toll Road Exit 11107, 1­ Call 243-9361, ask for Rob  271-9330  234-8159 or email at brendan·  
NO QUESTIONS ASKED.  please call Cindy Hestad or Amy  800-4 18-9487.  !!NO STUDENT TICKETS!!  bayliss@hotmail.com  
683-1938.  Moskalick at 284-4693 (ECDC­ TICKETMART INC.  
SMC) or Thayer  3-6 BDRM HOMES NEAR CAM­ FOR SALE  www.ndtickels.com  PQ.  
LOST: Checkbook with a reddish  Kramer at 631-3344 (ECDC­ PUS. NOW OR 2000I2001.ROOMS  N.D. FOOTBALL TIX  +++++++++++++++++++++++++++  This is a little late .. thanks for the  
brown cove, on 8124. Please call  ND).Please join om fun-filled days.  ALSO 272-6306  CALL 271-9412  +++  advice last Thurs. Remember ...  
Rich at 289-3921.  walk softly and carry a big  
SWANSON PARK 3 BDRM.FAM  FOR SALE  ND ALUM WILL PAY $100 APIECE  Studfinder.  
Ticket found. Call Kate al  www.PopWall.com-FUNKIFY  RM.2726306  N.D. FOOTBALL TIX  FOR TENNESSEE TIX 2773097  
3868 with proof if its yours.  YOUR DORM ROOM.Posters.bean  CALL271-9412  Matt ­way to drink yourself under  
bags.lava lamps & more_ For on-campus job -call toll free  NICE HOUSE CLOSE TO ND GOOD AREA NORTH 2773097  Bikes for sale.Good to excellent  GA FOOTBALL TICKETS ALL HOME GAMES ....  the table. Happy 21st_  
WANTED I need a responsible person to care for my 2 children ( 8&6). On M&W(4:30pm-2:00am) and every  1.87.POPWALU Spring Break '00 Cancun.Mazatlan or Jamaica From $399 Reps wanted' Se/115 and travel  Free Rent'!! Roommate left school...parents forcing me to !ind a roommate. 2 bedr. Turtle Creek Apt. Call Kelli 247-1704.  condition.All good mechanically. Ready to ride' 674-0541 For sale Serta sleeper/sofa. Asking $125. 289-7017  BEST PRICES 272-7233 ASK FOR AL ND v Mich St. (Sept 18) football tix for sale  Bing ­you suck, and you make those of us who aren't legal wish we could strangle you with a turtle­neck for not taking advantage of your fricken age  
other Fri. & Sat. (4:30pm -4:30am).Transp. provid• ed if needed $30/ night. Michele 287-9744  free! LOWEST PRICES GUARAN• TEEDIII lnfo:Call 1 ·800·446-8355 www.sunoreaks.com  2 ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME. Non-smokers & non-drinkers only. First month FREE. FEMALE ONLY  TICKETS  634-2506 Mich tix avail. leave offer @ 287-7167  Austin ­will you drive on my birth­day?!? Pei-yack  
FREE FOOD AND FROSTY BEV­ 2 great kids (fem. 9 & 7) are looking  Olllet & clean neighborhood close to campus.  WANTED NOTRE DAME FOOT­BALL TICKETS  NEED 2 MICHIGAN ST. TIX!!!  Must go home soon.  
,,.  ERAGES In return for a place to crash for the  for a sitter after school (3'.00 • 5:30 p.m.)  273-1611 BETWEEN 1 & 8 PM  271-1526  email: moon.6@nd.edu  Really must go.  
ND-USC game. 4 '94-95 alums seeking refuge. Call  M &/or W. Close to ND.Need a car. Call 289­ LOADED 6 Bedrm '00-01 yr.  SELL & BUY GA FOOTBALL TICK­ETS  Need 2 GAs to Michigan St., Oklahoma, Arizona St., USC, Navy  Classifieds are done  
Bill@ 703-469-1008.  7017.  273-0482 / 234,3831  277-6619  and BC. Call Bill at 4-4905.  

Wc<lne~day. St:ptemher I, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Red Sox keep wild card hopes alive 
Ass:ucia1ed Preu 
BOSTON 

.losP Offprman scornd on pi11ch-liiLWr Miko Stanlf\y's sa,·rificp f'ly to hrt\ak a sov­c11lh-i1111ing [i!• 011 Tunsclay night a11d givn tlw Boston Hnd Sox a <,-J virtorv ovPr th,\ Kansas City l!oyals.' 
Hnd S!lx startnr Mark l'ortugal pitchNI livP innings of no-hit lwll lwforc l,:aving a/"tcr six with tlw ganrn tied ]-:-L llich C:arT!'S n-l l pitclwcl two i1111i11gs 111' scornloss redid and ll,•rf'k I.own pitclwd tlw ninth for his I Olli Sllv«'. 
lav Witasick 15-11 ), coming 
off liis first carenr shutout and complcl,~ game, allow1\d four runs. thrnn ,~arnnd, on six hits anrl lwn walks whil11 striking oul fivn in 6 1-3 innings. Tlw Hoyals lost Llwir lifth conscc11­tivn game and their eighth in a row 011 tlw road. 
Thu victory was tlrn sfwtmth in eight games for the Hed Sox, wlrn entnrnd tlrn night with a lwo-gam1) lnad in the J\L wild­card ntcP ovor Oakland. The Athletics played Urn New York Yankeus on Tu1isday night. 
Olforrnan doubled lo lead off tho S(Wnnth, then took third on Darren Lewis" sacrifice bunt. Alvin Morman relieved Witasick, and Stanley came in to loft a fly hall lo cnnter field to make it 4-]. 
Nomar (;arciaparra singled, stoln sPcond and scored on Troy O'Lf!ary's double. The Hfid Sox nrnd1i it f,-:i on Damon Buford's BBi singlf~ in the nighth. 
Portugal. who had lost his last l'our starts, cruisnd thrrH1gh llw first five innings, allowing only one bas1irunner -on third basnman Donnie Sactlnr's throwing error in the se('.011d. But hn fell apart in the sixth as he blnw a 2-0 lead. 
With the first pitch of the inning, Portugal hit Chad KrPuter -possi!Jl1i revenge for Witasick hitting (~arciaparrn in tlw fifth . .Ind llans,•n l'ollownd with a chop• per Lhat Wlnll over tlrn head of the drawn-in Sadler; Garciaparra f'ielded the ball bnhind third base. hut ho had no play. 
.Johnny Damon bunted the ru1111tirs to sncond and third, t!Hrn Kre11t1•r scored on Hay llolbcrl's groundout. Carlos Boltran singled to score llans1rn and Jermaino Dyti doubled home Beltran lo give Kansas City a :~-2 lead. 
The Red Sox tied it in the bottom half of the inning when Butch Huskey doubled. moved to third on a groundout and scored on a wild pitch. He rnturned to tho dugout to a standing ovation from the fans -and his leammatP.s -who appreciated his two headfirst slides while circling the bases, even if neither one was exactly textbook. 
Boston took an early lead in the fourth inning when Daubach doubled and scored on lluskey's single. O'Leary, who had walked, took third on l!uskey's single and scored on llanscn's error at second base to make it 2-0. 
Tampa Bay 3, Baltimore 0 
Hookic Hyan Hupe allowed two infield hits over seven innings as the Tampa Bay Devil Hays escaped the AL East cnllar by beating the list­1oss Baltimore Orioles 3-0 Tunsday night. 
senior 
"Pre-Game" BBQ 
...are you ready for the Irish to beat Michigan this Saturday? 

When: Thursday, Septemeber 2nd 
Where: in front of Senior Bar 
Why: to eat tree lood, listen to son1e cool music, and get details about roadtripping to Michigan for the game! 

l<nrmcr Oriole Aaron Lednsma had two hits and drovn in a run for Urn Devil Hays, who had been in lasl placn since July 20. Baltimore, which carried a lofty $78.5 million payroll on opP1iing day. foll into the bascnrnnt by virtue of its l'il'th loss in six ga.nrns. 
llupe (8-7) struck ()Ut flight. matching his earner high, walkPd two and hit a batter. The only hits he allowed were Mikt~ Bordick's smash off first baseman frcd McGriff in the third inning and a deep grounder to short by Jeff' Conine in the seventh. 
Albie Lopez pitdrnd a perfect eighth and HobPrto IIernandcz gave up a single before getting three straight outs for his 37th save, one short of his career high. 
The Orioles advanced only two runners past first base. 
Baltimore starter Sidney Ponson (11-1 OJ yielded nine hits and two-runs in seven­plus innings. Ponson is I -2 with a 1.61 ERA in four life­time appearances against the Devil Rays. 
Tampa Bay used three straight singles, the last by McGriff, to take a 1-0 lead in the first inning. It was the sixth time in seven games that Baltimore failed to score first. 
The Orioles managed only Bordick's infield hit, two walks and a hit batsman through the first six innings. Conine sin­gled with one out in the sev­enth but was promptly retired by a double play. 
The Devil Rays made it 2-0 in the eighth. Dave Martinez walked and .Jose Canseco sin­gled before .John Flaherty hit a sacrilice fly. 

Cubbies dislllantle teant, look to future 
Associated Press CIIICAGO Last year. the Chicago Cubs were chasing the NL wild card. This year, they'rn deal­ing players like a spare parts shop. With any hop11 ol' the play­offs -or even a .500 record, for that matter -dnad for weeks, tlrn Cubs tradod closer Rod Bock to the Boston Red Sox and catcher Tyler llouston to the Cleveland Indians on Tuesday. .. From year to year you're going to have turnover on your rostflr," Cubs general manager Ed Lynch said. "It's pretty clear that we'ro going to try to do the best we can to improve the dub. "More of a motivation for us," be added, "when we havo a chance to add quality arms, I think that's important that we continue to do that." The Cubs got reliever Mark Guthrie and a player to be named for Beck, and minor league pitcher Richard Negrette for Houston as clubs in the pennant race tried to beef up their rosters. "He's a solid, dependable reliever who can help us get the last couple of outs in the ballgame," Boston general manager Dan Duquette said. "Beck is a reliable, dependable closer with playoff experi­ence." The Cubs wouldn't have reached the NL playoffs with­out Beck last season. lie became the lifth pitcher with 50 saves, converting SJ of 58 opportunities. But he faltered at the start of this year, going 2-4 with four blown saves and 
a 10.54 ERA. 
lie was placed on tho dis­abled list May 17 with bone spurs and chips in his right 
elbow, and undorwnnt surgery live days later. Jin was activat­ocl July 21. 
"Naturally, had I bnen healthy all year, maybe things would have lwtrn dit'f'nrent here," Beck said, "I know I'm r<1ady tu go. but I'm also pleased that Boston had enough confidence in mn to know what kind of player I am, that I am going to be healthy." 
lie has a 5.51 EHA and no decisions in 15 gam11s since returning l'rom Urn DL, though 

..
he 
pitched six scoreless innings in his last four outings. Ilo has an overall record of 2-4 with 
seven saves and a 7 .80 ERA this season. 
Lynch said he didn't try to trade Beck, but Boston sought him persistently over the last few weeks. 
"It's not a case of they don't want me here," Beck said. "But the Cubs aren't going to win anything this year and I figure with the lean free agent market this year, they need to fill a lot of holes on this ball club and the only way they're going to do that is through trades." 
Beck, 31, signed with the Cubs as a free agent in January 1998 after spending seven seasons in San Francisco. lie is 26-36 with 257 saves and a 3.23 EBA in 528 major league games. all in relief. 
He signed a two-year, $9.5 million deal after last season, with a club option for 2001. 
"Obviously, I'm moving up quite a bit in the standings and have a chance to do 
somewinning," he said. "But when I signnd on here for three years, I sort of ligured I wouldplay hnrn for three years." 

Qu1cK CAB 
233-6000 
r------, 

-ND to Michiana Regional Airport 1 $2 OO One Person $8 I • OFF More than 1., $5 each : EACH TRIP 
IQUICK C1,H 

-ND to Entertainment Area I 233-6000 I
One Person $5 
I 

-Waiting Time 10-15 Minutes 
:......
"' 
I ~ 
I

We Appreciate Your Business I
L ______ ..J
Welcome Home! 


-
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, September ] , I 999 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 

Homer spoils Johnson's game 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX 

Geoff Blum's leadoff home run in the eighth inning spoiled Randy Johnson's 14­stri keout performance Tuesday night as the Montreal Expos beat the Arizona Diamondbacks 2-1. 
Arizona lost for just the sec­ond time in its last 11 games. 
Montreal's Mike Thurman (6-10) allowed five hits in seven strong innings. match­ing his career high with seven strikeouts and walking one. It's the seventh time the Diamondbacks scored one or fewer runs for Johnson. He is 0-7 in those games. 
Johnson {14-9) lost for the first time in six outings, but raised his major league-lead­ing strikeout total to 315. With six_ starts remaining, Johnson 1s 68 short of Nolan Ryan's singlP-season strikeout record of 383. 
Johnson struck out at least 14 for the fifth time this sea­son. He allowed four hits and ?ne. earned_ run in eight mnmgs, while walking one b~fore_ being lifted for a pinch hitter m the eighth inning. 
Ugueth Urbina got the first two outs in the ninth before walking the next two batters. Urbina then got Rob Ryan to pop out to center for his 33rd save in 41 opportunities. 
Johnson struck out nine in the first three innings, but Arizona trailed 1-0 on an unearned run in the second. 
Rondell White singled, advanced to second on a passed ball by catcher Damian Miller and scored on Michael Barrett's double to deep left-center field. 
Erubial Durazo, who struck out the first two times up, hit the first pitch Thurman threw to him in the seventh inning over the right-field fence for his sixth home run to tie it at 1-1. 
Montreal regained the lead in a hurry 2-1 when Blum hit Johnson's 3-1 pitch over the left-field fence for just his fifth homer of the season. 
Tony Womack, the major league-leader in stolen bases with 61. beat out an infield single with one out in the eighth, but catcher Chris Widger threw him out trying 
to steal second.

In the seven th, Arizona ,-::----T------T------r-----,------,-------r-------,-----­
third baseman Matt Williams 
d
ove to his knees to snag a hard grounder hit by Barrett down the left-field .line, then got to his feet and threw him out. 
Montreal loaded the bases in the ninth with one out again1st reliever Gregg Olson.
b
ut s 1ortstop Womack made a leaping catch of Shane Andrew's line drive and threw it to third for the inning-end­ing double play. 

-
.... 
Notes 
. 
Vladimir Guerrero was scratched from the Montreal lineup because of a bruised left knee. He fouled a ball off his knee in the seventh inning of Monday night's 5-4 loss to Arizona. 

. 
The Diamondbacks placed shortstop Andy Fox on the 15­day DL with strained ribs. 


L_enny H~rris, acquired by Arizona in a trade with Colorado, arrived just before the first pitch and batted for Johnson in the eighth. He grounded to the shortstop on the first pitch. 
. 
Arizona's Luis Gonzalez extended his hitting streak to 15 games with a first-inning single. 

. 
Thurman had lost his pre­vious three starts. 


San Diego 7, Chicago 3 
Andy Ashby pitched a five­hitter and the San Diego Padres beat the Chicago Cubs 7-3 Tuesday night despite Sammy Sosa's major league­leading 55th homer. 
Cubs rookie starter Micah Bowie got just one out -lead­off hitter Quilvio Veras then allowed six hits and one walk as the Padres jumped to a 6-0 lead. 
Phil Nevin hit a three-run homer on an 86 mph fastball and Bowie was lifted afte; allowing a two-run double to No. 8 hitter Chris Gomez. 
Ashby {13-7) threw his fourth complete game this year and 15th of his career striking out four and walking one. 
After Mickey Morandini walked to open the ninth ?osa hit the first pitch he sa~ mto the left field seats to make it 7-3. The fan who came up with the ball threw it back onto the field. 
Sosa, who went 1-for-3, has 25 career homers against San Diego, the second most against any team.· He has 30 against Colorado. 
It was the first time the Padres won three in a row since a sweep at Anaheim from July 18-20. At that point the defending NL champs were four games over .500 
and two games out of the NL West lead, but have since gone 13-28. 
San Diego has won five of six since being embarrassed by scores of 18-2 and 15-1 at Philadelphia last week. Their previous four victories were all comeback wins. three against Milwaukee and Monday night's 8-4 decision against the Cubs. Chicago has lost 30 of 38 games. 
Chicago's first run came when Henry Rodriguez dou­bled leading off the second and scored on Jeff Reed's groundout. 
Bowie (1-4). acquired from Atlanta on July 31 in the deal that sent Jose Hernandez and Terry Mulholland to the B_rave~, was making just his sixth lng league start. His EHA rose from 10.33 to 12.18. 
After Veras grounded out Tony Gwynn and Reggi~ Sanders singled ahead of NAvin's 22nd homer. It was the _10th homer in August for Ncvm, who took over as the starting third baseman after George Arias was demoted on July 30. 
Eric Owens tripled into the Cubs' bullpen in right, Ben Davis walked, Ruben Rivera hit an RBI single and Gomez doubled. 
Rodney Myers came on and got Ashby and Veras to ground out. 

Gwynn singled leading off the third and scored on Owens' groundout. Gwynn has 3,029 career hits. 
. After Nevin's infield single with no outs in the third, Myers retired the last 18 bat­ters he faced in going a career-high 6 2-3 innings. Then former Padre Scott S_anders pitched a perfect eighth, combining to retire the final 21 Padres. 
Notes 
. 
Nevin has 20 RBIs in his last 15 games. 

. 
Eight of Nevin's last 10 homers have come with at least one runner on. 


The Cubs finished the month with a 6-24 record their worst August this centu~ ry. 
NFL 

NFL teams slash their rosters 
Associated Press 

Veterans Webster Slaughter and Jay Leeuwenburg were among the casualties as NFL teams ~ot down to the league­1mposed 65-man roster limit on Tuesday. 
Slaughter, a wide rncciver who caught 563 passes and piled up 8,111 yards in a 13­year cai:eer, was released by the Baltimore Ravens after a subpar training camp. He caught just three passes for 11 yards in the preseason. 
"It was very tough," coach Brian Billick said. "And he handled it with the typical class and professionalism that is Webster Slaughter. He was great for us while we were in camp. Ile was great for those young players. It's tough because he was a good friend, but he understands the nature of the business." 
The Indianapolis Colts. meanwhile, continued rebuilding their offense with the release of Leeuwenburg. The Colts' most experienced lineman lost his starting job during training camp. 
Leeuwenburg, who started 37 consecutive games f'or the Colts, made every offensivn snap last year at center l'or a line that allowed only 22 sacks. He was replaced in the starting lineup by second­year pro Larry Moore. who was moved from guard. Moore's spot on the starting line was taken over by Waverly Jackson, another second-year lineman. 
Lions 

The Lions, desperate for a running back since Barry Sanders' unexpected rntirc­ment, picked up Greg llill from the St. Louis Rams for two undisclosed picks in the 2000 draft. 
Hill, 27, rushed for 240 yards and four touchdowns for the Rams before his 1998 season was cut short by a broken ankle. llill. a S-foot­11, 212-pounder, played at Texas A&M and was a first­round draft pick of Kansas City. He spent his first four NFL spasons with the Chiefs rushing for 2,126 yards ove; that span. The !lams signed him to a free agent d1ial last summer. 
The Lions also signcd free i~ge_nt linebacker Andre Colhns, placed rookie tackle Aaron Gibson on injured reserve and rnleased six additional players. 
~ollins, 6-4. 240 pounds, will be entering his 10th sca­son in the NFL. He spent the 1998 seaso~ with the Chicago Bears. makmg 49 tackles and grabbing thnie interceptions. 
. He!easnd ~em safoty Nikia Cod i e ; de I e n s iv 11 tack Ii) Charlns Dorsey; wide rncniv­e r Henry Douglas: guard Dwayne Morgan: wide rnceiv­tir Freddie Scott: and lino­backer Joo Tuipala. 
Browns 

The Browns claimed widc receiver Zola Davis from tho waiver list on Tuesday. On Monday, Grnon Bay waivod Davis, an und raf'ted f'r1)0 agent who signed with the Packers in April. 
The 6-foot, 185-poundor was a f'our-year starter at South Carolina wlrnr1\ Im fin­ished his caronr as the scho_ol 's ~econd loading receiver with 164 catcl11)s. Only Stnrling Sharpe had more for the Gamncorks. 
Chiefs 

Bri_an Shay, tho l'iroplug runmng back from Division II who shattered all NCAA rush!n_g .rncords, was cut by the Chiefs. 
Coach Guntlrnr Cunningham said tlrn Chiefs hoped Shay would sign with the practice squad. 
The 5-8, 207-pounder, who rushed f'or an NCAA-rncord (~,958 y_ards for Emporia State, signed a free agent contract with tlrn Chief's after being ignorPd in the NFL draft. 
. In three exhibition games. Shay had only two carrios for IO yards. I le had a coupl11 of' good kick returns. 
"O 
20

2 20 80 40 50 
r.n • 
g_ -~ 
(1) E 
.O O
= E 
~ c, 
~ '§
i ,2 
E o 
~ ~ 
c, :5 .£ Q) § §
·-~ 
~o 
• LL ·= ro
~ __J 
.so 
.... N 
C: ­
ru ro 
fl) Q)
e! 0
C..!E 
Cl) 0 
.0 co 
.s ::)
"C CJ') 
(1) Q) 
~ :5 
-Q)
g:g 
0~ 
"O ::, 
:::J 0 
~ 



Win the right to purchase two tickets at $32 each for the game on September 11! 
Notre Dame vs. Purdue 

Student Ticket lonerv 
Lottery tickets will be distributed 
TODAY at STEPAN CENTER from 4-7PM. 
The drawing will be held at 6:50pm. 
olr 
! 


Wednesday, September l, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
NHL  MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL  
NHL all-star  Cal Ripken comes  
Ciccerelli retires  off disabled list  

TORONTO 

Dino Ci.ccarnlli, Ollfl ol'just 10 players in NIIL history Lo score (,00 goals, announc<1d his rn Li rn nm n l Tu nsday after d,1ciding his ailing back cn111ctn·1 takn tlrn punishment 11nyrrwr11. 
Tlw four-tinm all-star. a l'rne agent sinr.e thP Florida Pmillwr:-; rclnasml him in July, mad11 thn announcn­then was sidelined later with a 
AMociatcd Press 
hairline fracturti in his back. 
BALTIMORE
The Panthers bought out the 
Cal Hipken, who has been
f'inal year of his contract in 
frozen on 399 career homers
July lo make him an unre­
and 2,968 hits since July 31,
stricted free agent. 
is expected to return f'rom
"I tried skating a bil last 
the disabled list Wednesday. 
week and the same soreness 
Tho Baltimore Orioles'
and stiffness was there," 
third baseman has been side­
Ciccarelli told his hometown 
lined for tho past month with
newspaper, the Sarnia 
nerve irri­
(Ontario) Observer. "There's 
tation in
no use kidding myself any-

has been almost
fll(!llt th rough "There:~ no use kidding 
ranks ninth 

taking bat­doesn't mean he'fl play.
th(' N 111. 
certainly
myselfanymore. on the NIIL's 

ting prac­hit his
Players' 
cart1er list 
tice for

Assodation. · 
with 608 

Ray Miller 4 0 O t h 
"It is with Dino Ciccarelli 
several 
homer
goals, two 

Baltimore Orioles manager
nigrd I.hat I 
days and this sea­
havc1 to rc•tirn l'rorn tlw ganrn I lov,1," s ll i d Ci<'carl'lli, a I'J-ynar vntnrnn. "I haVI' b1Hm fort1i11atH lO liavH a long carnPr in Llw !\JIii. and I will always apprcciat,i tlw mqrnricnrn or playing in tlrn 
NIii.."' 
Ciccarelli played only 14 ganws !'or tlw !'anthers last snason, ~woring scvnn points wilh six goals and on11 assist. II<' missNI tlw first 10 games with back and ankln problems, 
his lower "He'll probably be acti­Ripken
more." 
back. Ho 
w i I I
Ciccarelli 

vated tomorrow, but that 
NHL player lwhind Bobby 
should be
!lull and 
activated
Vancouver's 
when the Orioles expand
Mark Messier. 
their rost1w beyond the cur­
lie also had 592 assists for 
rent 25 players:
1.200 points, good for 28th 
"II' we did it today we'd
place all-time. 
have to take someone oil' the 
Thll foisty 5-l'oot-10 Ciccarelli 
roster," manager Hay Miller
broke into the NII L with the 
said Tuesday. "He'll probably
Minnesota North Stars in 1981, 
be activated tomorrow, but
setting playoff rookie records 
that doesn't mean he'll play." 
with 14 goals and 21 points 
Ripken, who turned 39 last
that still stand. 
week, played in a record
Ciccarelli also played in 
2,632 straight games before
Washington, Detroit and 
voluntarily ending the streak
Tampa Bay before being trad­
last September. He went on
ed to Florida in January 1998. 


SAVE 11P TO 40o/o. FREE DELIVERY!*
WE PRO ISENOT TO RIP YOU OFF...(as ¦ uc•J. 
BUY TEXTBOOKS ONLINE. 
c:01 . W','t 1 liU!a 1 101 e, 


thl1 disabled list for the first time in his career April 20 because of a bad back. miss­ing three weeks, and returned to DL shortly after experiencing back pain Aug. 
1. 

In between he hit in 49 of 61 games, batting .352 with 15 homers and 43 RBIs. 
He hit his 399th career 
homer on 
July 25. 
son, hut 

he will be pressed tu reach 3,000 hits. Even if he plays Wednesday, he will need 32 hits in 31 games lo join Tony Gwynn 
and  Wade  Boggs  as  the  
newest  members  of  the  
3,000-hit club.  

Right-hander reliever Mike Fetters is finally ready to return to the Orioles after a lengthy stint on the disabled list with an elbow injury. 
Fetters, who underwent shoulder surgery in June, completed a successful reha­bilitation stint in the minors and will probably be activat­ed Wednesday. 
Fetters was 1-0 with a 5.48 ERA in 20 games before going on the DL. Meanwhile, starter Mike Mussina is still sporting an ugly bruisn on his rfght shoulder, a reminder of the line drive that hit him on Aug. 22 in a game against the Chicago White Sox. 
He will miss a second straight start Wednesday, but Miller hopes to use the right­hander Saturday. 
"We're looking at five days from now. but that's only in . pencil," Miller said. "We · want to make sure he's ready irnd comfortable. You don't want him to hurt something else." 
Mussina (15-7) has never won 20 games. He was on track to reach that number this season until he turned into a line drive off the bat of Minnesota's Brook Fordyce in the third inning. 
The Orioles scored six runs in the bottoi11 of the third and went on to an easy 9-4 victo­ry. 

Michigan 
continued from page 20 
don't think that Michigan and Notre Dame is the first game every year. And I know in 2002 it won't be our first game. It seems a little strange to me." 
The Wolverines were in the same situation in 1995 as the Irish are in this year. They were originally scheduled to opnn up the season at Illinois hut instead signed to play in the Pigskin Classic against Virginia. It was Carr's first year at the helm and the Wolverines had an inexperi­enced quarterback in freshman Scott Drcsisbach. 
The disputes between the two schools have carried on through the years. In 1943, under coach Frank Leahy, the top-ranked Irish faced No, 2 Michigan in Ann Arbor. After the Irish 35-12 victory, Michigan !load Coach Fritz Crisler told Leahy that the contest was the dirtiest gaml! he'd ever seen. 
It was :-15 years before the two programs met again on the field. 
Crisler had a vend1itta on the Irish that rnsurfacnd in 1952. On third and thrnc in a tie game against USC, the Irish were on the Trojan's nine yard line. Tim Irish went into a shift formation, fooling the Trojans, who jumpnd off-sides for an automatic off­sides. Johnny Lattner scored a couple plays later to give the Irish the win. 
They had not violated any rules with the shift. But the NCAA rules committee headed by Crisler outlawed the use of the shift, presumably to scorn the Irish. 
Regardless of the dispute, Davie feels the extra game prior to Michigan has helped his team. 
"For us, just the opportunity lo see on tape, against a different opponent than ourselves, what we have, adds to our confi­dence," said Davie. 
On the othnr hand, Carr feels he's learned a valuable lesson. 
"Certainly I think we've learned something from this expnrience," said Carr on Monday. "I think we'll takn every precaution so that it never happens again." 
Notes 
. Injuries are piling up for tlw Irish. !)eke Cooper did not prac­tice Monday due to a strairrnd quadriccp. Cooper, Andy Wisne (strained quad), Tony Weaver (sprained left knee) and Jason Ching (strained shoulder) arn all probable for Saturday's game. Lance Legrne may he hack l'or Purdu<1 but most likflly for Michigan StalH on Sept. 18th. Antwon Jorrns, who aggravat,id a sprain to his right shoulder against Kansas. is questionable. 
.. 
.> 
RECYCLE THE 

...
OBSERVER 

r 
r 
I 
I I 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, September 1, 1999 
FOOTBALL 
Irish place kickers up to no good 
Wide right ... blocked ... no the crossbar from 72-vards out. good. Freshman Joev Hildhold, an 
These words make Irish fans AP second learn ·all-state kicker across the nation cringe. Yet in from Virginia, averaged 39.7 recc>nt seasons, thny have yards per punt as a senior and bAcome all sophomore David Miller con­too com­rn~cted on 5b of 60 extra points mon. and in his senior season. last So shouldn't Davie expect Saturday's more from hi.s four scholarship Kansas· kickers? More than an 0-2 field game was goal effort and a 33-yard punt'( no excep­JIB r£'alizes he1 has depth and tion. tah-mL, but he's still skeptical 
SPnior about replacing Sanson_ kicker Jim "I do think we have some tal­Sanson lmttid gu~s behind Jim," Davie missed a 4:{-saicl. "I think David Miller has yard fiBld done well. I lhiuk Nick Sctta has and had a dmw well. So at this point, I 47-rnrd nrnan, it is still Jim Sanson's atu;mpL bloeknd. IIn also missnd job." an i>xtra point In fad, Sanson Davit> didn't place tht• blame now bas miss1\d lirn consocutiw for Saturday's missed kicks sDle­link! goal altempls. dating back ly 011 Sanson. to last yP:tr Davh•. howf1ver, "Tim probl(im we had wen• t!w asserts tlH'n~ is no rontrowirsy snaps WP.re a little bit low," over the place kickor position. Davie said. "I thought the pro­
"You know, I rPally havnn'l tection in lield goals was pretty !thought about making a change good. We missed an extra point. at place kicker}.-said Daviti at We missed a field goal and Ttwsday·s press confnrencn. "I kicked a field goal about this have got a lot of rnnfidence in high [2 feet] off the ground on 
..Jim. I think our football team -the one that was blocked." 
in fact. I knov, our football team The Irish simply can't afford to 
still has a lot of confidence in make these kind of mistakes 
Jim Sanson. against the Wolverines. Davie, 
But whm1 Saturday's show­however believes his kickers are down with Michigan· comes improving. down to a Jim Sanson field goal, "l think we have made some will Irish fans have that same progress," Davie said. "[The confidence? Michigan game] will be a good 
The Irish have four kickers on test for our kicking game. But scholarship, including last year's the one thing, you know, you Parade prep All-American, Nick have got to be able to get points Setta, who was also a USA on the board when you have Today first-team All-America those field goal and extra point punter and was rated the num­possibilities." ber-one kicker in the country. As Irish fans can only hope the a senior in high school, Setta kicking game comes around punted 39 times for a 47.8-yard before Saturday. If not, Notre average, including three over 60 Dame fans nationwide will be yards. He put 90 percent of his cringing once again in front of kickoffs into the end zone and hit their television sets. 
BLACK BELT INSTRUCTORS 
Exciting children's self-defense program needs an experienced, mature, responsible black belt who is interested in instructing a class once a week in South Bend or Goshen for the fall semester. Interested instructors please call Sheri at 765-423-4821. 




Rws SPOATS REOU.TION CiNTER DfPAATMfNI OF ATHI.ETICS UNIVERSIJV OF Nam DAME 
Rolfs Sports Recreation Center Drop-In Recreation Schedule 
In-Line Hockey  Sundays  8:30-10:30  
Floor Hockey  Mondays  8:30-10:30  
Indoor Soccer  Tuesdays  8:30-10:30  
Volleyball  Wednesdays  7:00-10:00  
Lacrosse  Thursdays·  8:30-10:30  
Badminton  Fridays  7:00-10:00  
Badminton  Saturdays  9:00-11:00  

Come by Yourself, or Bring a Friend! 
All times are PM. Schedule is in effect only when classes are in session. 

KEVIN DALUM/The Observer 
Senior kicker Jim Sanson will once again handle the kicking duties for the Irish this weekend. 
r 
l 


Room 012 LaFortune Student Center 
THE place to ship all your packages, conveniently located in the center ofcampus. 
NEI-J' HOURS!!!!!!!!! 
Hours: M-TH 11am -5:30pm; 8:30pm -Mid FRI 11am -5:30pm 
Also offering billfords and board Kames for your pleasure! 

Come visit us anti let us take care ofall your shipping needs! 


,,,, 
--------_J 
Wednesday, September I, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
TENNIS 
Sampras withdraws from U.S. Open 
Associated Press 
NEWYOHK 

Gloom pervadnd the U.S. 01rnn on a day shrouded in gray as P1iW Sampras crnakiid olT in misory, Todd Martin strugglod against a cramping jo11rn1!yman, and Jim Courier sank in lirsl-rouml defeat. 
IL was as if nearly Lhe whole American Davis Cup lmtrn was rnliving its nighlmarn against Auslrnlia a month ago. 
l1V1!n J\lcxandru Stevenson, tlw offorvescnrH teon who hrighlmwd up Wimbh!don by rnac:hing tlw s1·mili1mls in h1!r llro dnbut.. foll victim to Tunsday's nwluncholy as slw lmw,•d out listlnssly to No. 11 Nalhali1• Tauziat. 6-2. 6-2. 
lkfonding women's champi­on Lindsay Davonport brought a f'pw rays ol' sunshinu with lrnr nl'f'icient (1-0. (1-3 victory owr Corina Morariu..knnifor Capriali added a l'ew more with hm· tirsl win al lhti Op,m sin,:" 11>•n, and St>rnrrn Williams won l'asily in Urn PVP11i11g. (1-l. (1-0, against 
Kimlwrly Po. 
"This is 1111' hnsl I'w folt in a l1111g Lim1• lwri•, tcmnis-wise,' Capriali said aftnr lwating I1)tJ7 FrP1wh Opt>n rhampion Iva Majoli f,-1, 7-:i. "I li!d likP I'm n•1uly to play sonw lt•nnis.' 
Caprial.i is far l'rom I lw gig­gly l.t'Pll slit• was wlwn sll(' n·adwd tlw sPmis ;it tlw U.S. 
Op,m in 1991. In hM last four appearances here, she lost in the first round. 
'Tm not as goofy as I was l>nforu,' she said with a laugh. "That's changnd. I'm not going to go around saying l'm so excited after I win a match here." 
Bul despite her muted joy, tlrn day had a strange, disjoint­c d feeling, buginning with Sampras' withdrawal bocause or a herniated disc in his lower back. Sampras, the four-time champion and top seed, would not be going for a record 13th Grand Slam title and would not have a chancti to race No. 2 Andre Agassi again. 
''I'm going to l>e very humm1id out tho next couple of weeks,' said Sampras, who will lose his No. 1 ranking to Agassi or Yevgrmy Kafclnikov. 
Moments later came the announcement that an arbitra­tion panPI in Switzerland had rulnd against 1998 Australian Open champion Petr Korda in his stnroid casnNgood news !'or tPnnis' anti-doping policy but an unhappy ending to the carn1H· of' a popular player. 
"It's disappointing for Pnlllr,' said Martin, prosident of the ATP Tnur Players Council. "That's no way· to finish your carn1!r. Despite~ the fact that Im sonrnhow allow,~d thn sub­stance into his body, 1 think Pvnryhody should have a little rompassion.· 
Soccer 
continued from page 20 

"Overall, we may not have the maturity, but wo are technically better than in the past," said Berticelli. "The biggest thing we will have to overcome is the loss ol' Shane Walton. We could count on him to score the winning goal. Other players will now have to step up in his place." 
In the backfield, senior sweeper Matt McNew will provide the Irish with the most field experience of any 
player. McNew has started in "We're pleased with our 
all but three games in his progress so Jar, but we have a 
career at Notre Dame, almost 

very long way to go in
twice as much as any other returning player. restructuring the team. " McNew's leadership on the field will be a necessity as 
Mike Berticelli 
Notrn Dame's defensive ros­
head coach
ter lacks much starting expe­rience. 

Berticelli also will have a big void to fill in the goal. The Irish lost last year's starter Greg Velho, but do have an experienced player in fit'th-year senior Gerick Short. 
Short was granted a lifth year after he separat­ed his shoulder last season; he has not seen play­ing time since 1996. For just the third time in the team's ·23 year history. Notre Dame's team will have only one captain -Short. 
"Gerick Short is a natural leader and an important part of keeping the players positive and focused,'' said Berticelli. "It's hard, though, 
Volleyball 
continued from page 20 
Malinda Goralski, at middle blocker. 

"We want to play strong as a team, have good communication and play at our level the whole time," said Goralski. 
In addition, the Irish return several other vet­eran players. Junior Adrienne Shimmel is a strong reserve at tlw ouhido hitter and del'en­sive spPrialist positions. Senior Emily Schiebout plays oppositP. 
when you're in the goal to be a leader in the midfield. Andrew Aris and Matt McNew both have great leadership potential as well." 
Berticelli does see some positives in the team's lack of experience. 
"We've instituted some new ideas and with such a young team it's a good time to learn a new system," he said. "This way, everyone learns it together. It will be a slower process, but a necessary and beneficial one." 
Northwestern enters today's match-up coming off a strong 1998 late season and returns several 
key players. Losing only three starters last season, the Wildcats are returning 15 experienced players to this year's roster. 
"Tradit-ionally, Northwestern at Northwestern is physical. aggressive and tough," said Berticelli. "They're tough to defend because of their size -that's something we'll have to overcome as a young 
team." 

Senior Northwestern goalie Matt Keuler will challenge the Irish offense -he has allowed an average of only 1.24 goals p,~r game in previous seasons. 
The Irish have compiled a 10-1-1 overall record against the Wildcats and have nol dropped a game to Northwestern in over a decade. Notre Dame also boasts a .619 season opening winning percentage as the team has not lost a season opener since the beginning of the 1994 campaign. 
Junior outside hitter and opposite player Christi Girton, a pre-season /\II-Big East selec­tion. has potential to make an impact if she can overcome nagging back problems. 
Brown said she is impressed with the progress of the team's freshmen -Kaitlin McEwen, Janie Alderete and Kearn Coughlin. 
"We are trying to be more process-oriented instead of outcome-oriented this yoar," said Brown. "If we're training at the highest level in practice, I think the results will take care of themselves." 
The Irish arc ranked 29th nationally to open the season. 

Wolfie's 
Pasta, Sandwiches, Service & More!!! 
243-9911 forFREE DELIVERY 
r-NU-EAT-MlCRIGAN..,.LUNCH-r1oamw·4-p--m): 
Begin training now! : I but don't spit lhem out "Coke®" & Chips !l On Saturday September 25, 1999 · 50¢ off FREE l 
I 

Wolfie's will see who can eat the Leprechauns or wolverines pasta with any Sandwich purchase : 
I 1 
: EXPIRES 09/04/1999 EXPIRES 07/01/2000 :
most 4th degree hot wings. 
r[ATE-NIGliT(9;;;tillCl~~;t··-···sNA'CK-PACK------~
First Prize ' 
I 

I I meat or cheese 2-Garlic Brad w/Cheese & 2 -Cokes® 
2 tix to ND vs. Oklahoma. 
I' 'I FREE

Details available at Wolfie's. I $5 
I 
' 
I I on any sandwich 

lI EXPIRES 09/05/1999 EXPIRES 07/01/2000 
~-----------------------------------A-----------------------------------J 
Subs, Hoagies or Grinders-no matter what you call it, it's still a Sandwich. 

Menu & more available at WWW.WOLFIES.COM 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, Seprember 1, 1999 
NFL 
Hall of Fainer Jim Brown goes to trial 

Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 

Jim Brown's wife told police responding to a 911 call that he threat1rned to break her neck and bashed her car with a shovel, an offi­cer testified Tuesday at the football Hall of Famer's trial. 
Monique Brown was upset and had been crying when police arrived at the couple's llollywood Hills home on June 15, Officer Fernie Montesdeoca told a jury at the Municipal Court in Hollywood. 
"The defendant had threat­ened to kill her by snapping her nec.k," Montesdeoca said Monique !frown told him. 
"She slated there were prior domestic violence inci­dents during their two-year marriage. She never reported any to the police," Montesdeoca said. 
Prosecutors played Monique Brown's 911 call. in which she claimed Brown threatened to kill her. 
Brown, 63, has pleaded innocent to one count of mak­ing terrorist threats and one count of vandalism, both mis­demeanors. He could face 18 months in jail if convicted. 
He has a record of arrests dating to 1965 for alleged violence against women, but he either was acquitted or the charges were dropped. 
The city attorney's office is prosecuting Brown even though Monique Brown. 25, has recanted her storv. The couple's attorney ha~ said she made up the threats because she was frustrated and believed her husband was having an affair. 
Brown has alleged that police forced his wife to make the allegations and that they targeted him because he is a black community leader. 
"It ·seems more a case about prosecuting her than me. She's been doing a great job," Brown, holding hands with his wife, said as he arrived at court. 
He was greeted by about 25 sign-waving supporters. 
"Stop the prosecution of black celebrities. White celebrities are not targeted even though they are caught red-handed." one sign said. 
Montesdeoca testified that 18 officers responded to the 9 t 1 call Monique Brown made from a neighbor's house. She told them that Brown had a handgun in the house and had been drinking. 
When Brown did not answer a t.elephon~ call to the home, officers surround­ed the front, armed with a shotgun, a gun that shoots bean bags and a Taser stun gun. 
Six officers went to the door and knocked. Brown answered. 
"HB was calm" and was arrested peacefully, Montesdeoca said. 
Officers found a loaded handgun, a box of ammuni­tion and two knives in a bed­room drawer. In the garage, they found a shovel and a battered white Honda Accord. 
"All the windows had been busted out and there were dents all over the vehicle." Montesdeoca said. 
The officer carried the shovel to the witness stand and it was introduced into evidence along with photos of Monique Brown's damaged car. 
On cross-examination, defense attorney William Gravsen asked the officer about the police response to the 911 call. 
"You were anticipating the worst?" he asked. "We always do, sir," Montesdeoca /eplied. 
Questioned later by prose­cu tor Grace Kim Lee, Montesdeoca said officers requested a supervisor 011 the scene to ensure things were handled properly. 
That is unusual in domestic conflict cases. 
VOLLEYBALL 

Belles open vs. Elmhurst tonight 
By VICTORIA BUTCKO 
Spom Writer 

After the hard work and sweat of preseason pract.ices, ihe Relles vollevball team rnturns to Michigan ·collegiate Athletic Association (MIAA) play with high expectations. 
Saint Mary's will be led this year by three senior captains, including Agnes Bill, an MIAA first-team member from 1998. 
Rill. an MlAA Player of the Week last season, led the Belles in kills with 215 and an average of 3.91 kills per game. She also played a major part in the team's third place conference finish in '98. 
"My biggest 1:ontribution to the team as a captain is my posi­tive attitude," Bill said. "I think it is very im purtant for a team leader to be supportive of' every­one and bring the team together. 
'Tm very excited for this season. We have new coaches with great coaching techniques, new fresh ideas and lots of experience to offer us. " 
Agnes Bill team captain 

'Tm very excited for this sea­son. We have new coaches with great coaching techniques, new fresh ideas, and lots of experi­ence to offer us," she added. 
Randa Shields, with the help of assistant Lorelce Smith, 
begins her first year as  Belles  
head coach confident.  
"Leadership  from  three  

seniors, experience from return­ing players and talent from freshman combine as ingredi­nnts for a great and successful season," she said. 
Senior captains Jayne Ozbolt and Mary Hodovich are looking to nab the conference title this year. 
"We have a tough schedule ahead of us," Ozbolt said. "We're seeing a lot of nnw teams, which is very exciting, and I think we have what it takes to bn one ol' the best teams in tlrn confer­ence." 
Hodovich said she is looking froward to a very promising sea­son and takes very seriously defending and improving tlrn team's conference rank. The rest of the team knows it will take effort to aceomplish this task 
"The kny is to gel as a team, both on and off the court," said sophomorn hitter Angie Meynrs. 
Tho Bt11h~s bPgin their season at 7 p.m. tonight as they host Elmhurst College. 
If our delicious, flame-broiled double cheeseburger were any bigger, we'd need to buy more ad space. 
Nothing beats our big,juicy Double Cheeseburger. It's got the great taste offlame broiling and has 75% more beefthan McDonald's11 Cheeseburger. 
(Price and participation may vary.) 
The Huddle -Lafortune Student Center 
.. 
It just tastes better. 
t:)1996 Burger King Corporation. Burger King Corporation is the exclusive licensee of the Bun Halves logo trademark. McDonald's is a registered trademark of the McDonald's Corporation. 



,-------------------------------------~----~--~-----------------------­
Wednesday, September I, 1999 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
TOM KEELEY 
JEFF BEAM

A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD
FOURTH AND INCHES 
Fox TROT (DILBERT HAs Movrn ro THE v1EwP01Nr PAGEs.) BILL AMEND 



CROSSWORD 
AC ROSS  34  Dinosaur's  
1  "The  Colossus"  weapon  
poet  35  Fancy c ar, for  
6  Brayer  short  
9  Gridiron  stat  36  Rascals  
14  Nantes's  river  38  Let slip  
15  Ticketing  place:  41  Blackthorn truit  
16  Abbr. Bring rear  up the  42 44  Hiplike Barroom  fixture  
17  Sign  up  4tl  Physics  subject  
18 20  How may Flash cash?  glasses be seen  47  Come dfrom a great height?  own  
22  Post -0.R.  51  Wolf down  
desti nation  52  Pressure  unit:  
23  Kilm er of "The  Abbr.  
Islan d of Dr.  53  When the  
More au"  French fry  
24  Secret employer,  54  What  
maybe  etymolo gists  
27  Do a  post- do?  
holiday chore?  60  "Bonanza•  
33  Sixth  after alpha  homestead  

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
L E T E N E B O S  G O R O O M  E C C T O R T O A  E N D  B R A  L O B U O y L O T E  
U S T R I A  


Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 


63 Part of Mozart's art 64 Gloomy, in poetry as Race unit 66 Ask for another year e1 Low cards ee Victorian tl9 Famous 
DOWN 
1 Made, as a case 2 Actress 
Anderson 3 Superciliousness 4 Line around the 
globe s Witch 
s Whitish 
1 Knife s Juices e Stupendous 
10 Hand holders 11 Put a lid on 
12 Hobby-shop purchase 13 Vulpine weapon 19 Like the world, 
39 Kind of side 
to the ancients 21 Glows 
40 Holds dear 
24 Lassie, e.g. 43 They tum out the same
25 Block houses Give the nod 45 Make social connections
Make the call 28 Firenze's home 
48 Former world power, for short 
29 Cruel sort :io Quick swim 
49 Kidman of ''To Die For"
31 Singer Black 50 Crack again 
32 _Gatos, Calif. 54 6/6/44 
10  11  12  13  



55 Opportunist, 59 Like logs maybe 
80 Summer setting 58 Endless in Ore. adventure 
61 Eight-time 57 Clinton Cabinet Norris Trophy member winner 
58 Pulled 62 Once named 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Gloria Estefan, Lily Tomlin, Rocky Marciano, Barry Gibb. Conway Twitty 
liappy Birthday: Hesitation will be your downfall. Take immediate action when an opportunity arises and you'll prosper throughout the year ahead. Learn tu take advantage of those who are interested and will­ing to help you achieve your goals, and you will be satisfied with your success. Your m1rnbers: 3, 14, 27, 35, 39, 44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Don't listen tu ewrylhing you hear. Upset­ting news about your lover may not be true_ Don't get angry. Go directly to the source to find out exactly what's gmng on. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You can make your mark if you're willing to put all your energy into your pro­fessional goals. A lack of attennon to loved ,mes will cause upset. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Make plans to socialize. You will wanl to be where the action is. Travel should be on 1•our mind. Investment deals will be go,,d if you act quickly. Pamper yourself and you'll feel great. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22,, Fami­ly members will be difficult to handle Trv to understand their point of view Ta.lk to them, not at them. Financial limitdlJOns will result if vou take unnecessary chances. 0000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Direct your energ}' into learning. Sign up for courses or seminars that will aid you in getting a better position or at least taking control of your life. You will meel potential mates in the process. 
00 

Birthday Baby: You arcs,, ,,agL'r tl' pka~e that you will captme the heartsot those y,,u encounter You an' !,,ya!, confident and weii-orgarnzed, all quahhr, that will help you su,·c0l'd throughout liie. You will always get what you de~en·t• 
(NeeJ advice? Check out Eugenia'~ W,•h s1les al aslroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, aslromate.com.) f,1 l'-llr.J l ·111, ,:r.._..i l'rt""~ Svnd1f,1lt· 
beam.1@nd.edu 
EUGENIA LAST 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sepl. 22): You need to spend time with those depcn dent on you for advice. Open and honest grour communication will solve a lot o the problems you and your mate are facing. 00000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You can get ahead if you _play your cards right. Your boss will appreciate your work and your ability to meet your deadline. You will receive rewards for your past good actions. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Your competitive drive will enable you It, forge ahl'ad. Take on a challenge that will bring satisfaction and a pat on the back. You can make a difference ii you lend a helping hand to children 
000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): 
You'll be upset with friends and rela 
tives who try to back you into a cor­
ner. Your schedule is hectic, and you 
can't really take time to sit down and 
explain your intentions. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
Friends or relatives may try to inter­
fere in your personal life, but if you 
care about your mate, you will not 
allow th,s to happen. 00000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18i: 
Make changes to your home that 
you've been thinking about. You need 
to cheer yourself and the.rest of your 
family. Times have been tough. 
bul makmg small changes will b,• 
important. 00 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You 
must refrain from using emotional 
blackmail on your male, or you may 
not have one for too much longer 
This is not the time to disagree with 
employt•rs or spend money you don't 
have.0000 

Friday 7:00pm vs,. Northwe·sterr1 Satt11.-day 7:00pm vs. Pacific 
...
'~____,

Ra~ SOO Fans~ ~•sGvne gel a FREE~Magnet! 




Between the goalposts 
Notre Dame hopes kickers Jim Sanson and company can land the ball there Saturday. 
page 16
PORTS 

page 20 os~~RVER Wednesday, September 1, I 999 
MEN'S SOCCER 
FOOTBALL 
Soccer team ai01s for victory 

Michigan is upset 
By KERRY SMITH 
Spl>rts Writer 
The Notrn Dame mE'n's sor.­oir tearri upcns its 1999 cum­paign today against the Northwestern Wildcats in Evanston. !IL 
Graduation tonk a toll on the Irish, and only four experi­enced starters will take the field today. 
"We have a, Vf{ry young group of players," said head coach Mike Berticelli. "We're pleased with our progress so far. but we have a Vf!ry long way to go in restructuring the team." 
If the Irish intend put thei.r first notch in thP win column, they'll havP to roly on seniors Hvan Cox and Andrew Aris to become a pig scoring threat. 
In past seasons, Cox has shcrwn tremendous playmaking capabilities, scoring five goals while leading the team with eight assists at the forward position last season. 
lie also is a proven threat lo any defense in one-on-one situ­ations. 
Aris, the team's third leading scorer last year, tallied five goals and four assists during the 1998 season. A strength up front for the Irish. Aris will need to continue his aggressive attack in order for the team to be successful. 
see SOCCER/page 17 

over Irish schedule 

By TIM CASEY Sports Wricer 

Tlrn rnntroversy has lrngun. 
Michigan coach Lloyd Carr has bi>en oulspoken about the fact that thA Irish and Wolvnrines had engagnd in a "gnntlemen's agr<wnwnt." This agrnmnent allegedly said that ncitlwr team could par­ticipate in a game prior to their September 4th contest. 
Notrn Dame broke tlw "agn~cment" and Can· was irate. Ile repcmtcd his snnti­ments on Monday in his wecik­ly press conference. 
"I think it's unfortunatn for Lhis rivalry that they chosr1 to schedule a game to gain an advantage," said Carr, "That's the issue I have with that gam(~." 
In Tuesdav's Notre Dame press confer~nce, Bob Davie disputed the alleged agree­ment. 
"It's hard for me to com­ment on that because I haven't talk.id to Lloyd," said Davie. "I asked {Notrn Dame athletic director) Mike Wadsworth if anyone had heard anything from Michigan 
KEVIN DALUM!The Observer 
on the so-called verbal agree­
Steve Maio is back for the Irish soccer team this year. Notre 
m ent and no one had. You 
Dame kicks off its season today at Northwestern. 

hate to comment on anything that's a third-party story." 
''But it's intrrnsting lwl'aUsP last year thnrn was a 101. of' discussion with us playing Indiana in Urn proposod llall of l·ame ganrn," add1'd Davin, "That co11v1irsation Wf\111. on for fiv1~ or six months and everyone snemed excited about it. Th<'r<' was not 01w comnrnnt madn about a VPrbal agrnemenL" 
"i\nd then this war with all tho topics of·thP l:ddi«' Hohinson Classk that wPnt on !'or months hcf'ore that game was confirmml," added Davi<', "Thnre was not conwrsation about a verbal agrnPmPnt. Still todav. no ont1's lrnard. herf! at N;>trn Danw, about a verbal agrncm,~nt from Michigan." 
Davin also nwntionPd that this is not tlw rirst tinw tlw two lliams had not playPd in the first ganw of thPir rPSJ)('C­tive schodulns. 
"I remember back in '94, my first year at Notrn Dame, WP played Northwestern in Soldier Field and then tlw next week we playnd Michigan in their first game of tlw vcar," said Davie, "So it's a lit­tle different to me becausn I 
see MICHIGAN/page I 5 
VOLLEYBALL 

Netters open versus Valparaiso tonight at JACC 
. Irish hope for experience to off­set a lack of depth 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Head volleyball coach Debbie Brown returns a veter­an squad this year as the Irish open their season tonight against Valparaiso. 
A strong core of players returns frnm Notre Dame's 1998 Big East championship team. with only middle blocker Lindsay Treadwell lost to grnduation and senior outside hitter Mandi Powell sidelined by injury. 
"We have a little less depth than what l would like at this point," said Brown, "but we have some gor>d experience returning ar ..i high hopes for 
"We have a little less depth than what I would like at this point." 
Debbie Brown head coach 
this season. Each year, the team kind of takes on a differ­ent personality and different leaders step up." 
The Irish open there 1999 season at 7 p.m. in the JACC versus the Valparaiso Crusaders, who Notre Dame defeated handily last year in three straight games 15-3, 15­4, 15-5. Valparaiso has not bflaten the Irish since 1980. 
This year's Crusaders will be slightly more seasoned than last year's 10-18 squad, hav­ing lost only one player to graduation. However, they did 

go through a coaching change, replacing Nona l{ichardson with Becky Madden. who had led the team for three years. 
For Notre Dame, senior mid­dle blocker Mary Leffers and junior setter Denise Boylan serve as captains this year. 
Leffers is a force to be reck­oned with, as at 6-foot-4, she adds •significant height to the Irish line-up. Boylan was regarded as one of the top young setters in the nation last season, despite missing part of the season due to injury. This year, she made the pre-season All-Big East squad and should provide experienced leader­ship. 
They will be joi11ed in the starting line-up by outside hit­ters junior Jo Jameyson and sophomore \ilarcie Bomhack and by sophomores Kristy Kreher, at opposite, and 
see VOLLEYBALL/pagel7 

at Northwestern
ar Michigan vs. Norrh Carolina Saturday, 2:30 p.m. Today, 4 p.m. Friday, 7:30 p.m. 
.~~ ~

SPORTS ~ 
ATA 

... Cross Country 
Vo!leyball Volle-yball at Valpraiso Invitational 
vs. Valparaiso ar Elmhurst College 
September l l, 10 a.m.
GLANCE • f!i 
Today, 7 p.m. Today, 7 p.m. 

